----------~---­
, , .Th~ bort!:_b-page 6 

VOL. XVU, NO. 13 the imlt:pent.knt student newspaper serving notre Jame and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1982 
Beirut blast kills Lebanese official 
Beirut, Lebanon (AP)-President­1975-76 civil war between the elect Bashir Gemayel was killed Christians and an alliance of Mos­Tuesday in a bomb blast that shat­lems and Palestinian guerrillas. tered his Christian Phalange Party No group asserted responsibility headquarters in east Beirut. for the bombing. Munitions experts 
Earlier reports had said Gemayel an estimated 400 tons of explosives survived, while eight of his party were used for the device. members perished and at least 50 Israel invaded Lebanon June 6, 
others were wounded. forcing the Paletine Liberation Or­The sources said Gemayel's body ganization guerrillas to be evacuated was found in the rubble ofthe build­
from their strong-hold in Moslem 

ing on Saissine Square a few hours west Beirut,.and Israeli Prime Minis­after the explosion at 4 p.m. ( 1 0 a.m. ter Menachem Begin had been EDT). It occurred as the the 34-year­pressing Gemayel to formally old president-elect prepared to recognize theJewish state. address a rally of 400 of his fol­Gemayel was elected president lowers. on Aug. 2 3 by Parliament in a special 
The Phalange Party's radio station session that was boycotted by a had reported earlier that Gemayel number of Moslem legislators. He survived unscathed and walked was to take office Sept. 23. away from the rubble. It said cheers 
He had survived two other at­went up from a crowd in the Chris­tempts on hi-s life in the bloody con­

tian neighborhood, church bells flicts here that pitted not only the

rang and Phalangist militiamen fired presented the 1983 HPC Alcohol Policy, which
Moslems against the Christians but

tJ::!eir guns to celebrate the report will be voted on next week. (Photo by Scott that Gemayel had survived. It even Bower)­
also involved fights between dif­attributed a quote to the president­ferent Christian factions. elect, reporting he said, "I'm safe. 
The explosion ripped down a Thank God this incident is past." 
third ofthe building that housed the 

No compromises 
The radio station went off the air neighborhood Phalange Party head­several hours later as repqrts raced quarters in the Ashafieh district ofthrough the war-ravaged city that Christian east Beirut. Witnesses atthe president-elect was dead. 


Scheduling causes crowded lines 
the scene h:11J claimed they sawLebanon's state radio made no an­Gemayel walking away from the nouncement, but a few minutes after rubble.

11 p.m. ( 5 p.m. EDT) it began By MICHOLE MADDEN Since the number of meal plans the student community together," playing solemn, classical music. According to the sources who News Staff has increasd by only 126 from last Hickey said. He has many ideas for His death appeared certain to reported Gemayels' death, President year, the problem seems to stem the upcoming year including Satur­bring a new wave of bloody fighting Elias Sarkis informed Premier Shafik Inefficient class scheduling is ap­from the administation's scheduling day night candlelight dinners, spe­between Lebanon's right-wing Wazzan of the death. Lebanon's parently the cause of overcrowded ofclasses at the noon hour. cial holiday extravaganzas, picnics, Christians and Moslem leftists. It population is about equally divided lunch lines this year, but the new Some ofthe proposals for decreas­and the "Lettuce serve you" logan also threatened the delicate links Is­between Christians and Mo.slems, food service director refuses to ing the waiting time have included designed to strike up enthusiasm rael had created with the Lebanese and by tradition the president is a sacrifice quality to alleviate the assigned dining halls, closing North within the staff. He genuinely feels Christian militias following the Christian and the premiera Moslem. problem. Dining Hall's deli lines or preparing that Food Service should be targeted food that can be more rapidly at and should work with the needs served. The director of the Notre and concerns ofthe students. Dame Bill Hickey,
In LAFortune Food Service, Much of the congestion at lunch 
however, refuses to compromise 
could be avoided if students would food quality or student convenience 
try to eat lunch before 12:15 and af­to reduce the wait. 
ter 1 :00. They should be aware that Having directed Food Service
Students to open flowershop 
there are genuine efforts being made programs in four other major uni­to improve the atmosphere, food,ByJERRYWHOOLEY up a flower shop. Father John Van tion with the home football opener versities, Hickey is enthusiastic ar.d serving line problems ifthey areNews Staff Wolvlear, vice president of Student against Michigan. They hope to about his first year with Notre willing to cooperate.
Affairs, felt that it would be more ad­begin the tradition of selling mums Dame's Food Service. He has alreadyAnew florist will open its doors to vantageous for this to be a student­at various home sporting events. 
made many improvements in food Their suggestions, complaints,the Notre Dame community tomor­run business and, therefore, denied The shop will also provide the quality, variety, staff spirit and com-and compliments are welcomed and row at 12:30 in the LaFortune base­the request. He, together with Vice Welcome Back daises and .munication with the students. encouraged, because student at­ment adjoining the Nazz. President of Business Affairs, See SHOP, page 3 "Food Service is a vehicle to bring titudes can make all the difference. 
The flower shop is a direct Thomas Mason, approved McDon­response to a campus facilities ques­nell's idea and gave the go-ahead. tionnaire distributed by the Office of The shop will be strictly student 

Atcampus luncheon 
Student Activities. The question­operated and Meyers, a finance and naire cited LaFortune as the most accounting major, will handle the under-utilized facility on campus. necessary bookkeeping. The 




AFROTCcelebrates35th year 
Students have complained that managers maintain that the plant the Student Center does not supply quality promises to be excellent, enough services and this innovation while the prices will be the lowest in By MIKE LEPRE scholarships. This statistic, accoord­tivities in order to gain admittance is one example of the expansion of the area. The shop will be supplied StaffReporter ing to Miles is "the highest of any into the program. Other important the facility, according to Jim by several South Bend wholesalers university in the country." Miles also qualifcations include passing a medi­McDonnell, director of Student Ac­making the low prices a reality. The Notre Dame ROTC program added that "one out ofevery ten stu­cal examination, and a personal in­
tivities. The Student Union invested the provides many benefits for everyone dents on campus is enrolled in our terview. Astudent study group recently at­initial capital to finance the shop's involved, according to United States programs." "We are looking for a tended conferences at universities opening. Costs included remodeling Air Force ColonelJohn D. Miles. "Notre Dame ROTC is the largest well-rounded, active student who Speaking yesterday at a luncheon
across the nation and found Notre of the room, a floral display case, source of scholarship money exhibits the potential to be a celebrating the thirty-fifth an­leader," said Miles. Miles also
Dame lacking in several areas ofstu­plant inventory, utilities, and other available to students here" said dent service. McDonnell initiated necessities. Once the shop es­niverasry of the Air Force ROTC Miles in his presentation,"and in asserted that his trainees are "very the idea ofa student flower shop and tablishes itself, the Student Union program on the Notre Dame 1982 we provided our members much involved in campus life as 
campus, Miles also pointed out that
brought it to Student Union Direc­will share in the profits and use them with over three and a quarter mil­well." the ROTC program is the "largest
tor, Steve Strake, for consideration. to further improve student services. lion dollars in st:holarship funds." 
Other benefits of the ROTC
single source for newly commis­
Strake approved the idea and con­The shop boasts an extensive in­Miles also alluded to the major prgram include several field days,

sioned officers in the armed forces."
tacted Marianne Meyers, Hillary ventory including corsages, cut drawback ofthe ROTC program; the social dances and ROTC sponsored

The affair, which was attended by
Clement, and Kelly Bernard flowers, floral arrangements, and possibility of "academic overload." athletic teams. ROTC members also

local educators from Notre Dame,
concerning the proposal. Clement potted plants. They will deliver and 

ln defense of this charge, Miles was have the opportunity to teach
Saint Mary's, Bethel College, anc: the
and Bernard achieved notoriety for special orders can be made two days quick to mention that "our students courses and participate actively in

Univesity of Indiana at South Bend,
their private flower service HK En­in advance. A special box will be have certainly demonstrated the community work, especially at

also served as a chance to provide
terprises which operated here last provided for late night orders and ability to cope with this problem." Logan Center.

area college-level authorities with
semester. They accepted the the management is currently 

proposal and will act, along with an understanding of the advantages Noting that the ROTC at Notre Miles sees the Notre Dame ROTC
looking into the possibility of a 

of having an ROTC program.
:vieyers, as co-managers. teletlorist service. They are also Dame is extremely competetive, as an outstanding program which 
Several private merchants had Miles cited that over eighty-three Miles stressed the importance of a consists of many "super young
open to suggestions from students. 

recently approached Notre Dame percent of the enrolled ROTC mem­good academic record backed by adults who are well-prepared for life 
The flower shop will be sponser­bers at Notre Dame are receiving participation in extracurricular ac-

and requested permission to open ing a mum sale Saturay in conjunc-beyond college." 




NewsBrie.IJ 
Hy The ( Jbsen•er an<.I The Associated Press 

"TheJudeo-Christian Vision and the Modern 
Corporation," edited by Rev. Oliver F. Williams, C.S.C., adjunct as­sociate professor of management, and John W. Houck, professor of management at the University ofNotre Dame, was published recent­ly by Notre Dame Press. A collection oftwelve essays by economists, theologians, philosophers, corporate executives and l;msiness scholars, the book issued from a conference convened at Notre Dame by Houck and Williams in April, 1980. From diverse areas of study and commitment, the essayists examine the possibility of harmonizing traditional religious claims with modern corporate procedures. Among the Notre Dame essayists are Denis Goulet, Wil­liam and Dorothy O'Neill, professors of education for justice; Ken­neth P. Jaeson, associate professor ofeconomics; William P. Sexton, chairman and associate professor offinance; and Charles K Wilber, chairman and professor ofeconomics. -The Observer 
Father David B. Burrell, professor of theology 

and professor ofphilosophy at Notre Dame, has been appointed to a 
four-year term on Princeton University's advisory council for the 
department of religion by Princeton's board oftrustees. -The Ob­
server 
Kate ·M. Simonds, an admission counselor at Saint 
Mary's for the past two years, has been promoted to assistant direc­
tor ofadmission at the College. Recruiting coordinator ofthe admis­
sion office, Simonds also directs the student admission council and 
the international student program. She targets her recruiting travels 
to Illinois. A 1979 graduate ofSaint Mary's, Simonds is a member of . the National Association of College Admissions Counselors, the In­diana AssoJ:iation ofCollege Admissions Counselors and the Illinois Associatio? ofCollege Admissions Counselors. -The Observer 
Jos~ph T. Bonadies, supervisor of the grounds at Saint Mary's, has been nominated by the Professional Grounds Management Society for its 1982 outstanding member award. The honor wili be presented at the organization's annual conference in November in San Deigo. Bonadies, who joined the Saint Mary's staff in 1954, was given the President's Medal last spring during Saint Mary's commemcement. He has been a member of the Professional Grounds Management Society since 1940. -The Observer 
More business leaders took their undergraduate 
degrees at the University ofNotre Dame than at any other American 
Catholic college or university, ac .cording to a survey done by Stan­
dard & Poor's Corporation. The fourth study of the educational 
backgrounds of more than 50,000 top executives and directors in­
cluded about 500 institutions ofhigher learning in the United States. 
With 553 business leaders holding Notre Dame undergraduate 
degrees, Notre Dame was first among Catholic colleges and univer­
sities. Fordham University was second with 312. Notre Dame was 
11th among the nation's private universities, where Ivy League 
schools dominated the top positions. When compared with all col­
leges and universities, Notre Dame's production of business leaders 
from baccalaureate alumni was 23rd. Yale University, with 1,697 
executives and directors, was first in undergraduate degrees, and 
Harvard University, with 1,366, was second. -The Observer 
President Reagan says Purdue university's 
fund-raising group, the President's Council, is "the best in the 
American spirit of commitment and voluntarism." In a con­
gratulatory message to the council on Tuesday, Reagan said the 
council has involved business and professional leaders to help pay 
for Purdue's graduate studies and research programs. Reagan praised 
the group for its rapid growth to more than 1,300 members and for 
its contributions to Purdue. Council members have given the uni­
versity S35. 7 million, 57.7 million during the last fiscal year, univer­
sity officials said. The President's Council was founded in 1972, early 
in the presidency ofArthur G. Hansen, who wanted it to serve as the 
backbone ofa new effort to raise funds from private sources. -AP 
Well-known author John Gardner was 
killed in a motorcycle accident. State University of New York at Bin­ghamton officials confirmed yesterday. He was 48. 1 he accident oc­curred in Oakland Township in Susquehanna County. Pa.. approximately two miles away from c;ar<.lner's Pennsylvania home. officials said. Gardner, author of "The Sunlight Dialogues" an<.l several orher novels, had been head of the creative writing program at the university since 1978. -AP 
WilliatnJ. Small,former president of NBC news and a former executive with CBS news, was named president and chief operating officer of United Press International, it was annuunu.:d Tuesday by Douglas Ruhe. the news service's managing director. Small, who replaces retiring president Roderick W. Beaton. "is on<: of the news industry's true leaders," Ruhe said. "He is a llrst-cla,.,s newsman and a news executive ofscope and imagination who brings with him strong organizational and managerial skills." "I am honored to have been chosen," Small said. Ruhe said Small would have responsibility for all operations of the news service. On June 2, Media News Corp. bought UPI from the E.W. Scripps Co. The prin­cipals of Media News are Ruhe, Len R. Small, Cordell). Overgaard and William Geissler. Len Small, who also is vice president ofSmall Newspapers, is not related to the new UP! president. -AP 
Mostly cloudy today with 3o percent chance of showers. High in mid to upper 70s. Mostly cloudy tonight with slight chance of ~.-bowers. Low in mid 50s. Tomorrow, partly sunny and cooL High in low to mid 70s. -AP 
Wednesday, September 15, 1982 -page 2 


Highlights and Low ligHt§,::: 
Saturday's nighttime football game against Michigan is being heralded coast to coast as an event ofimmense significance. Thousands of inches of newspaper space have been devoted to the fact that the team is going to play the same game under artificial light that they've been playing since the turn of the century under sun­light. 
The game is one of the hottest topics of the year on campus. Yet conversation tends to focus on the lights, the stars -or the tailgaters -rather than the game itself The name ofNotre Dame and the word "football" are intertwined to the point where the two are nearly synonymous. But is this obsession with "a game" war­ranted? 
Financially speaking, the appeal offootball cannot be denied. Football is big business at Notre Dame and cer­tainly the profiteering prospects are endless. The bookstore alone probably does enough business in one football weekend to finance the landscaping repairs made necessary by a slew oftramping alumni all season long. And what better organized donation drive than a weekend directed toward the loyal alum making his an­nual pilgrimage to see the ol' team "win one for the Gipper?" 
Likewise, the new Senior 
This Saturday night at the
Bar is "expected to make twice the profit as the for­mer one did," according to Dean of Students James Roemer in a Sept. 1 Observer article. Senior Bar is also ex­pected to uphold the tradi­tion of being a pre-game must for all ofSaturday's fans past the age of 21. This is in addition to the keggers and tailgaters taking place all over.Green Field. 
It is a sad comment on our society that alcohol is such an integral part of our recreation. 

The danger involved in al­cohol abuse is particularly serious for Saturday's game against Michigan. Starting the game at 8 p.m. more than seven additional hours of drinking beforehand. All-day pre-game festivities combined with late night driving conditions after the game make the potential for disaster on Saturday very real. 
But the problems of college football are not limited to the fans in the stands. The term "collegiate sports" these days, particularly regarding football, is in many respects a joke. The amateur-in-name-only status of most college teams contradicts everything the teams were meant to stand for. 
Stories abound concerning rule violations ranging from the practice of players being given cars and con­dominiums to being paid for non-existant jobs on campus. The University of Southern California is presently on probation because an assistant coach was found selling the free tickets the players are given. Arizona State and Oregon are also on probation. And these are only the teams that were found to be at fault. 
What this boils down to is that players are being paid 


IJeslgN Etlitor.... ....... ~1aura Murph~ Design A.\'Ststaut .................. Kay Holland Layout .\laf{... .. .......... K;"h & .\lart·a li•J>e.<ellas.. Brut-e Oakley 
AI ~ova..., :\eu·.~ Edifr•r ...... . . Dave Sarph1l· Cop)' f.'tlitor ...................... \1aur<·en () Feature... la)•out ...............fot' Mu~umt'ci .~ports Lop}• Editor............ Sk1p l>t:"!',janhn tr{nsl .................................. Maf) Torch~;~ Ad /)estf:tl... . .... Paul ~Iota Pbotograpber... ............ Scott How~r 1\'J) Uuy Editor.. ................ Cindy <...:oldirou 
S,UC /Jay Lditor.. . ...... (rrc~ ~v. it:ret: 
=..::.= 
Th~ Observer 1 USPS 598 920) " published Monday throug~1 Fr~day and on home football Saturdays. except dur~ng exam and vacat1on per~ods The Observer IS published oy the students of Notre Dame and Sa1n1 Mary s Cot lege Subscr1pt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year 1$15 per semester) by wr~ttng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ann 46556 
The Observer •.s a •nember of The Associated Press All reproduCtion nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa•d at Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 


in the manner of professional athletes for what is supposed to be a contest ofamateurs. 
At its essence, football is a war game. The teams are armies, using a ball as an excuse to annihilate each other. Certainly no one can say we send the team out on that field each week in the name of camaraderie. Foot­ball has gone beyond merely competition; those players are out there for blood. It is fast reaching the point where an injury or maiming on the field is the only sure sign ofan "exciting" game. 
Notre Dame, as one of the nation's most respected colleges, and an avowed Catholic institution, should ex­amine more closely this "game" which has become a cornerstone of her reputation. College is supposed to acquaint us with the higher aspects oflife, not the base. 
Michigan game, between attending tailgaters and buying countless Irish foot­ball memorabilia, we should take a closer look at what has become the Notre Dame football· tradition. Perhaps some light will be shed on something more than .the field. 
I'm not saying money, al­cohol, and athletic prestige are the only motivations be­hind football at Notre Dame. Certainly they weren't in the University's earlier days. But we should re-examine the emphasis that football has taken at Notre Dame. Per­haps it began with the best 

somewhere along the line our priorities became confused. And it seems no one is noticing. 
Notre Dame has a well-deserved reputation com­parable to any other university in the country. Allowing that reputation to rest on the success orfailure ofa foot­ball team is ridiculous. Notre Dame should stand on its 
. own merit. When you are part ofa great institution, you don't have to win a football game to prove it. 
.The views expressed in the Inside column are the vzew~ ofthe author, and do not necessarily represent the mews ofThe Observeror its editorial board. 

The Observer 
Princess Grace dies from accident injuries 
Monte-carlo, Monaco (AP) · 

Princess Grace, who gaye up her 
career as Oscar-winning film star 
Grace Kelly for a storybook mar· 
riage to Prince Rainier of Monaco, 
died Tuesday night of injuries suf· 
fered in an auto accident. She was 
52. 
The official Monaco government 

press service announced in a state· 
ment from the palace that Princess 
Grace died of"an intra-cerebral vas­
cular hemorrhage." 
On Monday, it had been an· 

nounced that she had suffered a 
broken leg, ribs and shoulder when 
her car crashed off a twisting moun· 
tain road coming down from the 
French town of La Turbie. Her 
younger daughter, Princess Step­
hanie, was also in the car, which 
plunged 120 feet off the road, but 
Stephanie escaped with minor io· 
juries. 
The official statement said that 

Princess Grace's health 
"deteriorated during .the night" and 
on Tuesday. 
"At the end of the day all 

therapeutic possibilities had been 
exceeded, and her Serene Highness 
The Princess Grace died," it con­
cluded. 
Princess (;race, daughter of a Philadelphia bricklayer-turned­millionaire, made ju~t II movies · bet(>re she gave up her acting career in I9S6 to marrv Monaco's Prince 
Rainier and move to the small 
seaside principality wedged bt·­
tween the French and Italian 
Riviera~. 
She won an Academy Award as 

best actress in 19S5 for "The 
Country Girl" in which she starred 
with Bing Crosby. 
She wa<; also a favorite ofdirector 

Alfred Hitchcock, who preferred 
statuesque blondes for his movies. 
She appeared in three of his films ­
"to Catch a Thief' with Cary Grant," 
"Dial M for Murder," with Robert 
Cummings and "Rear Window," 
with.James Stewart. 
She met Rainier at the ~annes film 

Voter regtstratton today 
Student Government has an­nounced a voter registration drive to be held today and tomorrow, Sep­tember 1 '; and I6. Members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity may register between the hours of 10 and 3. in the LaFortune Student Center. Individuals wishing to register are requested to bring a student identification card or a valid driver's license. 
Persons registering at this drive will be qualified to vote in St. joseph's County and State ofIndiana elections. Tucker stated that "Students wishing to vote by absen­tee ballot in their home district should contact their local election board." He stressed urgency in doing so, as the deadlines for registering and requesting absentee ballots vary from state to state. 
' ' 

continuedfrom page 1 
Valentine's Day carnations that have already become traditional around campus. 
The shop opens Thursday with a ribbon cutting service and the management promises some unad­vertised specials. They feel that this florist will provide "a useful service in a convenient location at moderate cost." 
" t· . 
festival in 1955, and the romance flowered when he spent Christmas Day at the home ofher parents. 

· The couple had two daughters, Princesses Caroline and Stephanie, and one son, Crown Prince Albert. Princess Caroline was married brief­ly to Frenchmah Phillipe Junot, but they divorced in 1980 and had no children. Grace Patricia Kelly was born Nov. 12, 1929, in Philadelphia Her father, the son ofan Irish immigrant, had gained fame as an Olympic oarsman arid oegan-a ·successful career as a building contractor working ing as a bricklayer. 
After gr-aduatin_g_ from the American Academy of Dramatic Arts, Grace Kelly made her profes· 
sional acting debut in a revival ofher Pulitzer Prize-winning uncle George Kelly's "The Torch Bearers." A few months later, she made her Broadway debut as the captain's daughter in ''The Father," which ran for several months. 
As a young actress in New York, she appeared in such TV dramas a~ "Kraft Television Theater" and "The Philco Television Playhouse." both NBC. "Studio One" on CBS and "The Somerset Maughman Theater" on ABC. 
She made her movie debut in 19'; I, appearing in a small role ~ "Fourteen Hours," a film shot il}_ New York. 


Arafat meeting seen ·very·im·po·rtan·tWii'h')SORFUtG 
. 



as Vatican switch 
JERllSALP<i (AP)-Asenior Israeli official said Tuesda~ that by meeting PLO leader Yasser Arafat, Pope John Paul II will be breaking the Vatican's tradition ofneutrality and shifting to the side of the Palestinians. 
Plans for Arafat's papal audience, scheduled for Wednesday, brought an emotionally charged reaction from Prime Minister Mcnachem Begin, who compared the PLO's ac­tions in Lebanon to Nazi treatment ofEurope'sJews in World War II. 
Israel believes the papal audience gives political legitimacy to the Palestine Liberation Organization at a time when the PLO's power is in decline after its crushing defeat by Israeli invasion troops in Lebanon. 
The senior official, who asked not to be identified, said he saw the meeting as a change. from the Vatican position ofneutrality to sup­port for the Palestinians. "Even ifthe pope only shakes hands with Arafat, it would be considered with utmost gravity by Israel," said the official. 
The Vatican says t)le pope's meeting with Arafat has no political significance and that its concern for the Palestinians is humanitarian, not political. 
But the Israeli official said the Vatican was guarding its relations with the Arab world to protect Cat· holies who live under Arab regimes. He said the church was thus "giving in to political blackmail." 

Wednesday, Sep~ember 15, 1982-page 3 
·----. 

A member of the environmental group "Greenpiece" Willem Greenier, in an inflatable boat, followed by another memberjon Thomas, sees himself in a danp,erous situation as a crew­man ofa Dutch ship drops two barrels contain-
Begin and many Israelis touched by the Holocaust charge that the world watched in silence as one­third ofthe world'sJews were killed. 
"The same church that did not say a word about the massacre of Jews for six years in Europe and did not say much about the killing of Chris­tians in Lebanon for seven years is ready to meet the man who per­petrated the crime in Lebanon and is bent on the destruction of Israel," Begin was quoted as telling his Cabinet on Sunday. 
He referred to allegations that Pope Pius XII failed to condemn publicly Nazi anti-Semitism. Vatican documents show the church smuggled thousands ofJews out of Europe with Vatican-issued travel papers. 
The statement triggered an un­usually harsh response from the Vatican, which accused Isreal of distorting the truth on the church's record ofsavingJews. 
The angry public exchange dismayed Israel's professional diplomats, even though they tried to block the aal meeting with Arafat. 
Vatican sources said Tuesday that the pope was going ahead with the audience, which will be low-key and probably short -held in the late af. 
ternoon  after  the  pope's  regular  
general  audience  in  St.  Peter's  
Square.  

MEETirtCi TOrtiCi"T AT 6:30 with 
..._ . ----­

the Sailing Club.LIVE demonstration 

Bring~pen 


and ckbook. 
~­


obi~enesis 
-rr---.do.nc..a. colle 

Aucliti()ll§!!! ••••••••••••• 
toR 1982-83 _bane€ tROUP€ 
(()lli~llt 

7pm holyCJWSS (jam€• 
• 

• 

Qoom (nO) 

com~OJ~taBl€ cloth€s•
• 
-------------------------··---------.
INTERESTED IN HELPING AN UNDERPRIVILEGED CHILD? 
CANCO needs Parent-Aides to work one on one with South Bend children 

If interested call Dan (1002) or come to an organizational meeting tonight at7pm in Flanner's Pit. 
PLEASE HELP! WE NEED YOU!!!!! 
ing nuclear waste in the Atlantic Ocean, a few hundred miles off the Spanish northwestern coast, Friday, September 10. These Greenpeace memhers were try!ing to halt the dumping of several tons ofnuclear waste in the ocean. (AP) 
J 
Wednesday, September 15, 1982-page 4
The Observer 

Authorities in Littleton, Colo., are investigating the claims of Soon Bok Lee, 23, left, who says she was abducted by a 28-year-old man in Seoul, South Korea, and taken against her will to the United States. She is pictured during the Miss Korea contest in May, 1982, in Seoul. (AP) 
{luffy 
rider. ~h ·;aiadl """ . ' 
of nee!Mct ~am. 1\llt~ an ewtlimittrl butt~ at H'l§hAdt>h illld t4~ nrduldren. ::ttt"" t(M< ~~·Itt J~ /w-l 


from lOam to 2pm 
·TIPPECANOE PLACE · ·RESTAURANT· 
bZO W. Washington ,Sovth Bmd, Ind. r:hnne: 2M-907T 


Reservations Recommended 
Soviets involved 



Pope targeted for Polish ties 
New York (AP) -NBC news reported yesterday that it had un­covered evidence suggesting that Pope John Paul II was targeted for assassination with the knowledge and perhaps the assistance ofSoviet and Bulgarian intelligence agencies. 
NBC said the pope was targeted because of his connection to the Solidarity labor movement in Poland. NBC also disclosed that the Pope sent a handwritten letter to Soviet President Leonid Brezhnev in 1980 in which he threatened to "lay down the cross ofSt. Peter" and lead the resistance by his Polish countrymen if Soviet troops moved in. 
The letter, delivered by a Vatican envoy, sparked a secret shuttle mis­sion between Moscow, Rome and Warsaw that led eventually to a tem­porary easing ofthe Soviet-Polish at­titude toward Solidarity, NBC said. 
The NBC report came after a nine-month investigation by cor­respondent Marvin Kalb and repor­ter Bill McLaughlin. The network released details of the investigation today in advance of the airing of a documentary, "The Man Who Shot the Pope-a study in Terrorism."It will be broadcast Sept. 21 . 
NBC traces what it calls an un­broken line from Mehmet Ali Agca, the Turkish gunman convicted for the May 1981 shooting of the Pope organized crime elements in Turkey, the Bulgarian secret service and the Soviet KGB. 
NBC said bank records show that Agca deposited S10,000 two months before the assassination of Turkish newspaper editor Abdi Ipecki. Agca was convicted of .the murder, but later escaped from a maximum security prison in Turkey. In addition, Agca had large sums of money deposited for him in Turkish banks while he was a student at Is­tanbul University. 
NBC says that Agca appears to have been backed financially at every step of the way by organized crime in Turkey and that the Bul­garian secret service has strong ties to the Turkish syndicate. 
NBC quotes Vladimir Sakharov, a former KGB agent who defected, as saying that information held by the Bulgarians would also be known by the KGB. 
12 primaries 



Voters decide on Reaganomics 
Voters in a dozen states and the District ofColumbia settled primary elections Tuesday, with Reaganomics and the merits -or demerits -ofincumben among the issues that marked the season's big­gest crop of nominating contests. 
Senior senators from Vermont and Nevada -Robert T. Stafford and Howard Cannon -had opponents who argued th t at years in office had made them forget the problems back home. Clent Zablocki, chair­man of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, faced a similar chal­lenge. 
In a conservative-liberal con­frontation, Democratic Gov. Edward 
J. King of Massachusetts locked horns with Michael Dukakis, t t he man he ousted from the statehouse four years ago. 
Dukakis taunted King as "a cheer­leader for Reaganomics," and said the King campaign was pocked by corruption. King emphasized a law­and-order stance, and called Dukakis a big spending liberal who raised 
Join us or a 
SPECIAL SATURDAY BRUNCH 
state taxes and would again. 
President Reagan'economic policies were a debating point in as­sorted primary contests, including several that involved candidates for Congress and governor who looked past token opposition to the cam­paign for the Nov. 2 general elec­tions. 
Wisconsin became the first of nine states to ballot on a nuclear freeze proposition, deciding by referendum whether to urge that the United States seek to negotiate a verifiable "nuclear weapons moratorium and reduction" with the Soviet Union. The Reagan ad­ministration opposes an immediate freeze, but the State Department said the Wisconsin wordin~ was am­biguous and might not be contrary to Reagan's insistence that weapons reductions should come first. 
Ten states settled contests or ratified unopposed candidates for governor, 10 more for senator. Among them, the primary states had 61 House seats, and new members of Congress will be chosen this year in six of those districts, two because of retirements, four because of reap­portionment. 
Mayor Marion Barry Jr. was up for Democratic renomination in the District of Columbia against former Cabinet secretary Patricia Roberts Harris and two city council mem­bers. The victor is virtually guaranteed election. 

Wisconsin approves anti-nuclearvote 
MILWAUKEE (AP) -Wisconsin voters gave overwhelmingly ap­proval yesterday to the nation's first statewide referendum on a nuclear weapons freeze, approving the;: measure by a 3-to-1 margin. 
With 382 of 3,625 precincts reporting, the vote was 58,861 or 76 percent to 18,640 or 24 percent. 
The Reagan administration refused to take a stand on the referendum on the ground that its wording is ambiguous. 
Supporters had predicted ap­proval ofthe measure, which is non­binding, despite a drafting error on the referendum ballot. And they had said that approval would send a message to Washington to begin im­mediate negotiations on the halting of nuclear weapons proliferation. 
A mistake in the wording of the question, the omission of"weapons" from the referendum as sent to county clerks by the state Elections Board, created some confusion. But the publicity focusing on the error was expected to increase rather than diminish voter interest on the issue. 
Residents of Brattleboro, Vt., voted overwhelmingly yesterday for a nuclear weapons freeze proposal. With 2 of 4 precincts reporting the vote was 526 yes, 65 no. 
A similar proposal was approved overwhelmingly Saturday by voters in Austin, Texas. In a straw vote in conjunction with a school bond referendum, the freeze was en­dorsed by more than 4 to 1. 

t CiET AN EDUCATION ! 
: MONEY CAN'T BUY. : 
:PWS $15.i00 FOR COLLEGE; 
~ ~ 
~ Join the Army for two years. Because not only is ~ ~the Army one place where you'll mature in a hurry, it's a~ ~great place to get a lot of money for college fast, too. ~ ~ You see, if you participate in the Army's college ~ idinancial assistance program, the money you save for college: ~s matched two-for-one by the government. Then, if you ~ iequalify, the Army will add up to $8,000 on top of that. ~ : That's $15,200 in just two years. For more information~ 
-+eall your college recruiter.  ~  
~ ~ :  ARMY. BE ALLYOU CAN BE.  ~ ~ :  
~  ~  
~ ~  SFC Hamilton 234-4187  ~ ~  
~  ~  



~----~----~~-­
The Observer 
~----­


Wednesday, September 15, 1982-page 5 
Economic policy 





Middle-road tak~n by Democrats 
, Washington -(AP) --House he said. rebuilding the nation's crumbling Democrats are preparing a pre­Democrats supporting the policy "public infrastructure" -such as election economic manifesto that statement range from liberal Charles highways, bridges and water sys­looks past the nation's current woes B. Rangel ofNew York to Charles W. tems. and ignores past party calls for full Stenholm of Texas, head of the con­"This is our public works employment. Instead, the thrust will servative Boll Weevil coalition. program, but we didn't want to call be on long-term investments in it that," said the source, noting
Although unemployment is at its economic growth and a call to 
Democratic sensitivity about being
highest levels since World War II, rebuild the country's transportation sources involved in drafting the portrayed as big spenders on pork­barrel projects. "We didn't want the
and water systems, according to statement said it offers no short­I
White House to be able to hit oneDemocratic sources. term, job-creating programs and out ofthe park."
The report, which the House makes no reference to the full­
1 
Democratic Caucus plans to release employment goals of the By some estimates, it will cost the 
this weekend, stakes out a middle Democratic-sponsored Humphrey­nation $1 trillion over the next 10 
political ground on which party 
Hawkins Act of 197R years to rebuild its infrastructure. liberals and conservatives alike can 
The report also deplores budget 
Sources said the key word in thestand for the November congres­deficits, sources said. 
manifesto is "investment." It refers
sional elections, said the sources, "This proposes a long-term to the need to create conditions for
who insisted that their names not be economic policy. There are no economic opportunity in the future
used. 

quick tlxes," said a source. adding through public and private invest­
"This is a consensus document that traditional Demoratic calls for ments to encourage development of
that is much more centrist oriented "pump-priming" economic stimulus new, high-technology industries and
rather than self-consciously liberal," program~ "an: largely ah~ent." revitalize older basic industries.
said one. After two years of Reaganomics. he said. the report ''Will thi~ provide instant relief The principal authors of the retlects a ~hift in economic policv (from the recession)? I'd have to say. report were Rep. GHlis W. Long, dchatt· toward more con~ervative ':\lo."' said the source. 
chairman of the House Democratic approache~. He said the report does propose a Caucus: Rep. Timothy E. Wirth of "The hope i' this will he the hvm­public jobs program hut only in­Colorado and Rep. Richard A. Gep­
nal wh1ch all l>emocrab will sing," directly, as part ofa broader plan fur hardt of :\1issouri. 
Three months? 
Reagan wrong on abortion issue 
WASHINGTON (AP)-President group ofeditors ofreligious journals Congressional hearings, Reagan Reagan claimed Tuesday that babies yesterday afternoon. It ran contrary said, have shown that it is difficult, if have been born after only three to a statement by the American Col­not impossible, to determine when months of pregnancy "and have lege of Obstetrics and Gynecology life begins. lived, the record shows, to grow up that there was no solid evidence that Therefore, he added, "If you can­fetuses less than 6 months old can not determine when life begins then
and be normal." survive. doesn't simple morality dictate that
An oftinal spokesman later ack­In a brief filed with the Supreme you opt for the fact that it's alive 'til 
nowledged that Reagan had mis­Court two weeks ago, the college someone can prove it dead?"
-spoken, saying the President 
maintained there was "no unam·
actually had in mind a single case in biguous documentation that an in­The President added, "I happen to
which a "!-month-old fetus had fant born weighing less than 60I believe the unborn child is a living
survived. "He knew," said the spokesman, "But he said three in-
grams at a gestational age of 24 human being. I think the fact that weeks or less has ever survived." children have been prematurely
stead of 4." · Reagan volunteered the state· horn, even down to the three-month
B.ut the purported source of the ment as he talked at the White stage and have lived, the record
President's information about the .f­
House about anti-abortion legisla­shows, to grow up and be normalmonth-old fetus told The Associated tion that is stalled in the Senate by a human hei::lgs, that ought to bePress he had informed presidential tllibuster. enough for all of us."
aides of it only after questions arose The President said he has been Initially, Deputy White Houseabout Reagan's original statement. 
critical of so-called human life press secretary Pete Roussel said heMoreover. he said, it was he who groups "because they have not did not know where the President'stold an inquiring presidential aide rallied behind a single measure" in information about surviving .'\­
that the tirst statement was wrong. 
Congress, but are divided on what month-old fetuses came from, andReagan's claim that .'\-month-old 
kind oflegislation they want. would check.
fetuses haq survived was made to a 
....•.......•.•.••.........•..•.•.•...••....•.••...•......•.•....•...•.••......•.•.•......•......••••••,. 
· join USC 
, 

The Undergraduate
Schools not Southcnn Cal 

Involves: Committee 
Notre Dame students visiting their former high schools1and other high schools in their areas 1 ,.... ~ during the Oct ber and Christmas vacations. ~~0 We welcome responsible students to act as .,, representatives of the University of Notre Dame • Admissions Office. -· 


Applications are available now through September 15th at the reception desk in the Admissions Office 1 Room 1131 Administration Building. 
~······································································································ 




FOOTBALL AT BRIDG'ET'S 
HIGHLAND PARK, Mich. (AP)­A midnight strike deadline hung over negotiaions between Chrysler Corp. and the United Auto Workers as bargainers sought agreement yes­tt'fday on a new contract for 83,200 autoworkers. 
Meanwhile, negotiators for the UAW and General Motors of Canada Ltd. reached a tentative agreement on a new contract about 12 hours before the current pact for some :.B,OOO workers expired at mid­night. 
Contract talks were continuing yesterday between the UAW and General Dynamics Corp. ofSt. Louis, the nation's largest defense contrac­tor. A contract covering 5,200 for­mer Chrysler Defense subsidiary employeesalso expires at midnight. 
In the Chrysler talk.~. oargauung began early in the day. "We're going to try to piece this thing together," Thomas Miner, Chrysler vice presi­dent of industrial relations, rold reporters as he walked into the building where talks were being held. 
UA\11: president Douglas A. Fraser has warned that Chrysler's -'l.'\,200 working U.S. autoworkers would strike at 12:01 a.m. this morning if. there were no new agreement, un­less the two sides were so close that the current pact could be extended for "a couple of hours, a couple of days.'' 
Another 40,000 Chrysler autoworkers are on indefinite layoff. They too are covered by the con­tract and vote on any agreement. 

will be collected: Tues. 14th 11:30-1:30 
Wed.  15th  11:30-1:30  
Thurs  16th  11:30 -1:30;  
8:00 -9:00pm  

N D --LaFortune SffiC -Lemons Lobb 
FIRE UP--FOR 


Wednesday, September 15, 1982-page 6


Editorials 
Nuclear presents and a future 
For the majority of the world's population Hiroshima. The sound of the word triggers there has been, so far, only one consequence mystical connotations even in the minds of ofthe nuclear age: recurring nightmares. Per­many people who are unaware of its impor­haps we have all have had dreams and tance in international history. Hiroshima ­nightmares of nuclear holocaust, or visions of perhaps the most significant event in the his­nuclear accidents. Yet, to most ofus, that is all tory ofthe United States, and possibly the one that the horrors of nuclear energy shall ever occurence for which the United States will be be -possibilities and fictional scenarios. long-remembered (and judged) after this 
generation, the United States, and the current world order are history. The United States of America, the only country in the world to be

Robert lloyd Snyder 
irresponsible enough to use atomic warfare against a civilian population. 

then mid-week 
It is difficult to come to a completely ra­tional position, either "pro" or "con," where the issue of nuclear energy is concerned. A I remember a conversation from last year great many people separate the issue of 

which occurred about the time ofthe declara­
"nuclear weaponry" from the issue of tion ofmartial law in Poland. We were discuss­"nuclear energy." It is very difficult to find ing the avenues of action available to the people who are actually in favor of nuclear 

United States in the way of sanctions, etc., weaponry, but it is very easy to find those who when someone facietiously suggested that the are in favor of nuclear energy. United States should "nuke" Poland and then Iwas formerly one ofthose who favored the the problem would be solved. Another person benevolent use of nuclear energy. Indeed, I (who had perhaps had a few too many beers) felt that nuclear energy was indeed as safe as interjected that such action should not even the government has contended, that the be comically contemplated, as the Soviet Uni­issues of nuclear ene.r;gy and nuclear on was the only country on earth irrespon­weaponry could be separated, and that the sible enough to actually use atomic weapons. contention that nuclear energy was the best 
More bucks for bombs? 
The United States will be spending more "That's not going to stop a dictator in some than S 1 75 billion this fiscal year on weapons, small, depressed country that has nothing to soldiers, sailors, ships, airplanes and all the lose from dropping one." paperwork it takes to prepare to fight a war. In "Why do we need tanks if we have nuclear 1984, we'll be spending $247 billion. I don't weapons?" know what a fiscal year is, let alone how much "Because there are going to be a lot of little money S247 billion is. I know it's a lot, wars in which no one quite dares drop the though, and so do other Americans. bomb." 
Last week, many congressmen returned to "IfYasir Arafat had the bomb, do you think 
Washington after a summer vacation and said he would have dropped it on Israel a few there were people back home who didn't like weeks ago?"the idea of all this increased spending on the 
"Israel has the bomb. Do you trust Menac­military. 

hem Begin with it?" 
"We have 490,000 military personnel in


Andy Rooney 
foreign countries right now. That seems like a lot for peacetime. It seems like too many."

A Few Words "We're spending $4 billion to train a small, highly efficient fighting force to fight little wars, free hostages and things like that. It seems like a good idea. Most ofour big Army
It's tough for any ofus to figure out what we ought to be for or against when it comes to 
and Navy units aren't really much good, if you military spending. For one thing, we know so want to know the truth. Peacetime armies little about what's in the minds of our poten­never are much good." tial enemies. We don't even know whether "The Falkland Islands war proved either they're enemies or not. We don't know for that warships, aircraft carriers and submarines sure whether they're any more apt to drop a are no good at all or that they are the only things worth spending money on. I forget
bomb first than our own generals are. 
which that war proved. Whichever it is, we I often wrestle with the problem in my own ought to abandon either the Army or the mind and what follows are some random argu­Navy." "One good reason for the military buildup
ments I've presented myself with in relation is that it provides a lot of jobs here in the
to President Reagan's big military buildup: United States." 
"I want the United States to be the strongest "The worst reason in the world for making 
nation on earth." weapons is to provide jobs. Making weapons
"Baloney! What's the difference? So maybe 1takes money from the rest of the economy,
we're only second strongest or even fourth. 
where we need it for practical things like . We still have all the weapons we need." 

bridges, roads, houses and refrigerators.

"No one in his right mind is going to start a Military equipment is good for nothing ifyou
nuclear war." don't fight a war with it. All you can do is
"Yeah, but a lot of people who could start throw it away in a couple ofyears."
one aren't in their right minds." 
I guess I'm like the congressmen's con­"If we had only half as many nuclear stituents back home. I'm opposed to spendingweapons as we have now, we could still more money on the military. No one who

destroy all ofRussia, and they could destroy us with what they have. Why does either country 
spent four years in the Army as an enlisted need more nuclear weapons?" 
man trusts the generals to decide how to "Nuclear weapons are so terrible that no 
spend 35 cents of every dollar we have. My opinion is that they aren't smart enough to

one will ever use one." "You want to bet?" handle that much money. Of course, I've al· 
"If any country drops a bomb, they'll be 
ways been an enlisted man, even as a civilian, destroyed themselves." 
and I don't trust bosses ofany kind. 

energy option open to the world in the face of sonal opinions. 
dwindling oil reserves. 
This was the position I held before the I can see no rationality in an arms race be· tiasco ofThree Mile Island. I believed that the tween the United States and the Soviet Union. disposal of nuclear waste could be safely The "zero-sum" thinking which dominates handled before the revelation that the nuclear the nuclear policies ofthe United States is tru­waste disposal site which is but ten miles from ly beyond my comprehension. Every year it California contains dozens (and possibly seems that we spend billions of dollars on a 
hundreds) of barrels of nuclear waste which system of defense that we shall probably have cracked and are leaking leta! amounts of never have to use, and that we would probab­radiation into the Pacific. ly never have to use if the world's super­I believed that the issues of nuclear energy powers could achieve some type of 
and nuclear weaponry could be separated across-the-board nuclear arms reduction, and before President Reagan signed an executive put an end to the world's largest game of order in 1981 which for the first time in U.S. "chicken" and macho politics. history gave the go-ahead to the Defense department to reprocess the nuclear waste The entire scope of nuclear power seems from our conventional nuclear reactors into 
filled with uncertain possibilities, deception high-grade plutononium for usage in nuclear 
and "Cold War" thinking. The world's biggest warheads. crap shoot is happening right before our very I had more confidence in the sanity of the 
eyes, on our television screens and in our newspapers, in our halls of government andworld's international powers before Israel's 
bombing of an Iraqi reactor last year. I found 
those of the Soviet Union and other world myself differentiating between powers, in reality and our imaginations. The issue seems so far removed from our in­
knowledgeable and intelligent works of nuclear-related literature (see Strobe Tal­dividual lives that we often dismiss such issues bott's Endgame and William Buckley's as the games that world powers play, until we column) where knowledge in nuclear matters realize that the stakes in the international only serves to further ignorant and biased per· nuclear "crap shoot" are our lives. 
,, 
~w 
~ 
rl. 

p. 0 ·Box Q B II h f b. I h
a y oo or 1eye e pat s 
DearEditor paths which would be segregated from the 
Notre Dame has one ofthe most beautiful now-existing people-paths. (How about a college campuses in all the Midwest. It has path around the lake?) If paved, they would been easily enjoyed by millions because of enable pedestrians to more pleasurably . its "all pedestrian" nature. With cars ·stroll the campus, once they know the restricted to specified areas in and around "perpetual bike look-out" would be greatly campus, the campus' beauty admirer is able limited to bicycle paths and their resulting to nonchalantly stroll the beautiful path­marked intersections, only. Also, not having ways. In addition to cars, though, should not to dodge, tail-gate, or run over slow-moving bicycles be restricted to certain areas, too, walkers would be a long-awaited con­because ofthe inconvenience they cause? venience to the cyclist and walker alike. If 
Undeniably, though, the ride of a bicycle the university is not able to pave the well­through the campus is one of the most ex­needed paths, though, could not the bikers hilarating experiences on the campus. move slower when either passing a fellow Anyone who has enjoyed a ride through the student, executing a turn onto another path, freshly fallen leaves would never opt for or cutting through a quad football game? Not bicycles to be banned from campus; only would countless students be thankful however, could not the university pave to the University and its cyclists, but also 
black-topped bicycle paths through and hundreds of squirrels who dangerously around the campus to improve biker­meander down the existing all-purpose pedestrian traffic flow? paths. To avoid such difficulties, the University Ken Cerabona should pave professional-looking bicycle Freshman Year 

Editorial Board Department Managers 
The Obrerz,er is an independent newspaper publishcd by the students of the 
l:'llitrwin Chief. ...'1.1ichael Monk Nusiness .lltlllllger Tony Aiello 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not neces~arily 
.llilllllgin.~ l:'tlitor Kyan \'er lkrkmot'' (.'( 111 In1ller ...... l'rit· Schulz 
reflect the policies of the administratio1• of either institution. The news i> report­
1:'.\'!'UIIit•e .\'I'll'S l:'t/ilor .. Kdli Hint .·ltlt•ertisin,~ .lltlllttger <:hri' <)wen
ed as accurately and as obje(tivcly as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of 
.\.11<. ,\I'll'S l:'tlilor .. \largart·l Fo,moe l'rotlllction .lltlllll,li<'l' .. Maura Murphy a maJority of the Editorial Board. Co,nmentaries, opinions and letters are the views 
SfltJrls l:'tlilor <:hri' Nenllc' Circulation .lltlllil,~t·r Kaylnglin 
of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and 
l:'tliloriuls l:'tlilor . .Paul 1\k(,inn S)'Slt'/1/S .111/llll,li<'l' 
I\run·< )akkv the free expression of varying opimons on campus, through letters, i> encoun.ged. Feiiiiii'I'S J:tlilor Tari Brown 
1'/1()/0 l:'tli/or l{.ichd lllounl Founded Novemht.·r .~. 1966P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame, IN '16556 (219) 239-5303 
~~S tl0 W C '~iiiSiiiiiEiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiWeiiidniiesiidayii,Siiiepiiitemiiibiieriii15iii,19iii82ijiiiiipiiageiiiiii7 


I'd like you to meet ... 
0 
ldMan: This way, ifyou please . ..Yes, oneguest bas come already. We're expecting a great many morepeople! ... Old Woman: Sit here, please. (The OldMan in­
troduces the two invisible guests to each other). Old Man: A young lady we know . . . Old Woman.· A very dearfriend . . . O'd Man: The Colonel . . . a famous soldier ... 
The Chairs by Eugene Ionesco 
Tcui Btown 
featutes 
Eugene Ionesco, one ofthe greatest playwrights of the twentieth century, captures the difficulty that people have in their interactions with others. 
As the Old Man and Old Woman show, we settle for the customary, noninformative, "Hello, this is ...". We then continue onto the next unfamiliar face and repeat the same dialectic sequence. 
Each name the Old Man proffers to the other guests corresponds to a specific, distinctive person. The per­son that stands before him is unique with behaviors and mannerisms exclusive to that individual. 
Ionesco purports to identify each guest by a name that has been given to that face. A closer reading ofthe script reveals Ionesco's description ofthe difficulty of such interactions in a point ofdistinct irony. 
In the stage directions, he described the reality ofthis situation. He has given us faceless names by telling us that the guests are invisible. 
After finishing The Chairs, I recalled some ofthe many occasions here at school when I have participated in massive first semester, "let's get to know people" in­troductions. The obvious four questions were always asked -"what is your name, what is your major, where do you live, where are you 'from ..." 
A few ofthe people that I met in those crowds have since become close friends. However. the greater p~rt of them have become nameless faces, invisible except for the fact that I once met them and then dismissed them for one reason or another. 
The irony_ofIonesco's play hit home when I realized 
T ife isn't easy. Neither are most of ~y trivia quizzes, as I showed you last week. I asked you to identify some famous (or not-so-famous) al­ter egos ofwell-known artists. Here are the answers: 
I. Eivets Rednow -Stevie Won­der (now wasn't that one easy? He did an LP ofharmonica instrumen­tals in 1968 under that name.) 

Tim Neely 
tock ttivia 
2. 
The Blue Ridge Rangers -John Fogerty (former lead singer of Creedence Clearwater Revival; he had a hit with "Jambalaya" in 1973) 

3. 
The Hawk -Jerry Lee Lewis (a couple ofinstrumental piano tracks in the early 1960s) 

4. 
Bob Guy -Frank Zappa (a 45 before the Mothers ofInvention came to be) 

5. 
Arvie Aliens -Ritchie Valens (one 45 in 1958; he took the name 




that I had doomed many people to an eternal state ofin­visibility by refusing to pursue their acquaintance. I have always considered myself to be open-minded. I have tried to maintain a standard ofawareness to the uniqueness of the individual; so much so that I would never dismiss the experience ofany individual for a trivial reason such as what their major is. 
I discovered that I had been deceiving myself. I was reacting as prejudicially as those I had criticized for being close-minded. 
Prejudices exist according to our personal likes and dislikes. When we encounter other people, those prejudices surface. At Notre Dame, the "four big ques­tions" facilitate the process ofdiscrimination. 
My sophomore year abroad proved to be the heaviest piece ofevidence against my claim to open-mindedness and for my prejudicial nature. 
I managed to embed myselfin the "invisibility scam" while on the Saint Mary's Rome Program. All of my Notre Dame woman prejudices told me that Saint Mary's women were to be avoided, so proverbially put, like the plague. Given that conditions warranted my living in close quarters with 45 ofthem for the entire academic year, avoidance was absurd; but ignorance · and invisibility were not. To my chagrin and joy, I dis­covered that they were no different than Notre Dame women and in many instances, I found that I liked them better. 
That kind ofprejudicial attitude imposed unneces­sary difficulties on my life. I can only hope that by trying to maintain a sense ofopenmindedness that I was able to see them for what they were and not for what I thought they were. 
The beginning ofthis semester refocuses my atten­
tion on the memories of that semester in Rome and on 
my own first semester at Notre Dame. 

The questions with their regimented responses bring 
me laughter and .:ars. I laugh amazed at the shallow­
ness ofthe inquiries. I cry, grieving at the shallowness of 
the inquiries. The incidence ofArts and Letters majors 
mumbling to themselves, "Oh, well. An engineering 
major," is altogether too high. 

What is lost by not seeing what is there isnot nothing. 
I would hope that after reading Ionesco I would not 
t"".iU victim to the "invisibility scam" again. He has chal­
lenged me to see people as faces with names that I won't 
forget. 

Challenges are hard to meet but people aren't. 


Trivin quiz 48 
without the "V") 
6. 
Ben Colder -Sheb Wooley (of "The Purple People Eater" fame, he recorded a series ofimitation drunkard records throughout the 1960s) 

7. 
True Taylor-Paul Simon (he recorded the first version of"He Was My Brother" under this name in 1963) 

8. 
The Henhouse Five Plus Too ­Ray Stevens(achicken-clucking ver­sion of"In the Mood" in late 1976) 

9. 
Larry Lurex -Freddie Mercury (ofQueen; the name was a takeoffon the then-popular British artist Gary Glitter -"Lurex" recorded a ver­sion of"I Can Hear Music" in 1973) 

10. 
Runt-Todd Rundgren (his school-days nickname, under which he recorded an album which con­tained "We Gotta Get You a Woman") 


So much for those. This week we look at some groups which have had personnel changesover the years. In when someone left. So let's begin. Who replaced ... 
I. Pete Best as drummer ofthe Beatles? 
2. 
Joe English as drummer of Wings? 

3. 
Peter Gabriel as lead singer of Genesis? 

4. 
Kevin Cronin as lead singer of REO Speedwagon? (He, in tum, was replaced by Kevin Cronin.) 

5. 
Terry Kath as lead guitarist of Chicago? 

6. 
AIJardine in the Beach Boys? (He, in tum, was replaced by AI Jardine.) 

7. 
Florence Ballard in the Supremes? 

8. 
Peter Green andJeremy Spen­cer in Fleetwood Mac? 


9. Randy Meisner in the Eagles? 
rtl 
10. Rick Wakeman as keyboardist ofYes, the first time Wakeman left? (Hint: he also replaced Mike Pinder of the Moody Blues in the same 

ffinc's miRAGE 
S
ince Lindsey Buckingham and Stevie Nicks, an obscure Los An­geles duo with one ignored LP under their belts, joined Fleet­wood Mac in 1975, the Mac has become one ofthe most popular bands in America. Also, in a medium where popular success and critical acclaim are almost mutually exclusive, their albums have done well on both counts. In the seven years since their emergence out ofobscurity, they have displayed a mastery of the studio that no band since the Beatles has shown. This continues onMirage, Fleet­wood Mac's fifth album since Buckingham/Nicks joined up. 
Beginning with 1975'sFleetwoodMac, the band has shown a flair for writing memorable pop songs and at the same time never regressing into blatant commercialism. 1977'sRumours became the first album in modern times to yield four top-ten singles, and also sold around 12-15 million copies (the largest-selling LP in Warner Brothers Records history;FleetwoodMac is second, by the way). 
Tim Neely 
tecotd teview 
The 1979 Tusk was a big risk. Very few established acts take chances once on top; Fleetwood Mac did so and succeeded admirab­ly, puttingout one ofthe three best two-disc sets in rock history. Yet it was too chancyfor many buyers, and puttingout the most radically different songon the LP (the title song)as the first single did not help 
much -the LP sold "only" four million. A year later,FleetwoodMac Live showed that they sound good live and do not necessarily need 
million-dollar production costs backing them up. 
Mirage seems to strike a happy balance between the adventurism ofTusk and the pure pop ofRumours. There are songs like Nicks' "Gypsy," the LP's second single, which has parallels to other Nicks classics like "Rhiannon," "Dreams," and "Sara" without sounding like a clone ofthem. Nicks' three tracks show that her songwriting priorities remain with Fleetwood Mac, since only "Edge ofSeven­teen" on her recent solo album is as good as any ofthem. Then there is Buckingham's "Eyes of the World," which is the closestMirage gets to the more off-the-wall Tusk tracks like "The Ledge" and "That's Enough for Me": distorted guitars, twisted voices, Mick Fleet­wood's primitive drumming. 
Ifall one coul<j do with an album is draw parallels to the past, then it might be OK, but not really excellent. As usual, the band does move in other directions. "Hold Me," a song Christine McVie wrote with Robbie Patton (a fairly obscure singer who has had a couple of medium-sized hits), is one ofthe few duets you'll ever hear Fleet­wood Mac do. McVie and Buckingham team up on this, which was (deservedly) one ofthe big hits ofthe summer. It's hard to put my finger on exactly what makes this so good. Maybe it's the piano; maybe it's the blend ofthe voices; maybe it's the production ofBuck­ingham and the usual Mac production team of Richard Dashut and Ken Caillat. Actually, it's not any one thing; it's the entire effect of everything put together that makes it a great song. 
Other than the previously-mentioned "Eyes ofthe World," Buck­ingham's songs are not as far out as his Tusk offerings, but they offer 
many of the same qualities. A couple almost seem unfinished; they fade out just when they seem to be getting to the point. One thing you can never say about Lindsey Buckingham is that he is predict­able. The best ofBuckingham onMirage is "Empir~ State." The lyrics are mildly interesting, but again it is the band's incredible sophistica­tion in the studio that makes this more thm an ordinary song. Again, only the Beatles have ever used the studio in quite the manner that Fleetwood Mac has and yet not become totally dominated by it. 
As usual, this album was preceded by rumors ofFleetwood Mac's inevitable breakup. The rumors were even stronger this time be­cause oflast year's solo albums from Mick Fleetwood, Stevie Nicks and Lindsey Buckingham, and another in the can from Christine McVie. However, every time this has happened, Fleetwood Mac has i come back sounding more together than ever. OnMirage, they have ~ combined the best elements ofRumours and the best elements of Tusk and come up with an album truly deserving of the word "classic." 
l 




~~()f1tS:J:J:~:=t:.~;~~S========~==================w=e=dn=e=sd=a=y,=S=ep=t=em=b=e=r=15=,=19=8=2===pa=g==e8 
By Tbl! Ohsa11er and Tbe A.ssociatl!d Prl!ss  
The IndianaPacerswill play a group ofNBA All-Stars  
in a benefit basketball game in Indianapolis Sept. 25 for the United  
Way.  
Proceeds from the 1:30 p.m. (EST) game at Market Square Arena  
will go to the United Way of Greater Indianapolis, which serves 67  NATIONAL LEAGUE E81t  
local agencies.  w  L  
Players on the NBA All-Star squad will all have Indiana college backgrounds. They will include Indiana University's Isiah Thomas of  St. Lours Ph1ladelp,h1a Montreal  80 80 78  63 64 65  
. ' '  Detroit, Mike Woodson of Kansas City, Ray Tolbert of Seattle, and Notre Dame's Kelly Tripucka of Detroit.  Pittsburgh Ch1cago New York  77 62 56  67 83 85  
Afew tickets remainfor the all-star basketball game  West  
featuring Adrian Dantley, Kelly Tripucka, Austin Carr, and l ~ oth~r  Los Angeles Atlanta  82 80  64 65  
former Notre Dame players who will be returning to the ACC this  San Francrsco  75  69  
Saturday to participate in the Logan Center Benefit Basketball Game.  San D1ego Houston  74 67  71 78  
The game is being organized by Notre Dame assistant basketball  Crncrnnatr  54  91  
coaches Gary Brokaw and John Shumate, both former lnsh All­ 
Americans who will play in the game. Tip-off is set for  l  p.m. on  
Saturdav, just seven hours before Notre Dame opens 1ts 1982 toot­ Monday's Results  
!  ball se~on against Michigan at Notre Dame Stadium. Tickets are S6  Ph1ladelph1a 2. St LOUIS 0 Ch1cago 7, Pittsburgh 3  
I ~ . i I  in the lower arena and S-1 for upper arena. Tickets are selling fast at Coate l 0 oi the ACC. -Tbe Ohsen•er See BRIEFS, page 10  Houston 5. Atlanta 3 Los Angeles 4. San D1ego 3 I 16) Crncmnatl5, San Franr.rsco 4 (11 1  


Baseball Stats 
Tuesday's Results 

St LOUIS 2, Philadelphia 0 Pet. GB 
Pittsburgh 15, Ch1cago 5 .559 
Montreal3, New York 1 556 5 
Houston 4, Atlanta 0 545 2 
Los Angeles 1 , San D1ego 0 535 35 
San Francrsco 2, Ctncmnati 1 428 19 
Wednesday's Games 397 23 
New York (Ownbey 1-2) at Montreal (Rogers 17-7) St LOUIS (AnduJar 12-10) at Ph1ladelph1a (Denny 0-0) Ch1cago (Jenk1ns 10-15) at Pittsburgh (Candelana 12-6) 

562 
Houston (Ryan 14-11) at Atlanta (Perez 1-4) 552 1 5 
San D1ego (Lollar 14-8) at Los Angeles (Hooten 2-5) 521 6 
CinCinnati (Shirley 6-12) at San Francisco (Mart1n 6­510 75 
8) 462 14.5 .372 27 5 
AMERICAN LEAGUE East 
w L Pet. GB Mrlwaukee 85 60 586 Baltrmore 83 61 576 1 5 Boston 80 64 556 45 New York 73 71 507 11 5 
Detrort 72 70 507 11.5 Cleveland 70 73 490 14 Toronto 65 78 455 19 

West  
Kansas City  83  61  576  
Cahfornra  82  62  569  1  
Ch1cago  72  67  518  8.5  
Seattle  67  76  469  15.5  
Oakland Texaas  60 57  83 87  420 396  22 5 26  
Mrnnesota  52  92  361  31  

Tuesday's Results Balttmore 5. New York 4 Baltimore 5. New York 3 2nd Oakland at Toronto ppd. Milwaukee 6, DetrOit 3 Boston 12, Cleveland 1 Mmnesota 3. Texas 2 Cal1lorma 7, Ch1cago 0 Kansas C1ty 5, Seattle 2 
Wednesday's Games Oakland (Conroy 0-1) at Toronto (Leal1 0-131 New York (Guidry 14-6) at Balt1more (Flanagan 13­
10) Milwaukee (Vuckov1ch 15-4) at Detroit (Morns 16-14) Cleveland (Barker 12-11) at Boston (Eckersley 12-11) Calllorma !Forsch 11-10) at Ch1cago (Koosman 7-6) Texas (Tanana 6-16) at M1nnesota (Castillo 9·1 0) Seattle (Perry 8-12) at Kansas C1ty (Gura 17-1 0) 
The Observer will accept classlfteds Mon­day through Fnday. 10 am to 4 30 p m. However. class1ftedsto appear tn the next 1ssue must be rece1ved by 3 p.m. the bustness day pnor to 1nsert1on. All classtfteds must be prepatd. e1ther tn person or through the mail 

Classifieds 
NOTICES 

IMPROVE ,YOUR GRADES! Research catalog-306 pages-10,278 top1cs-Rush $1 00 to Box 25097C, Los Angeles. 90025. (213) 477-8226. 
IS YOUR HAIR GETTING IN THE WAY OF YOUR STUDIES?? CALL MICHOLE FOR A HAIRCUT TODAY! ONLY $4 FOR GUYS AND $6 FOR GIRLS BEST TO CALL AFTER 3 AT 7850 
Improve Your Grades! Research catalog --306 pages--1 0,278 
WOAD PROCESSING SYSTEM $2995 64K M1crocomputer.letter quality pnnter. 
__.::~ 
word processtng sbttware, CP/M, Baste Call 277-7720 
CAR PROBLEMS?? I AM A QUALIFIED MECHANIC WITH LOTS OF EX­PERIENCE AND LOWER RATES THAN ANY GAAAGEII CALL TODAY FOR A FREE ESTIMATE JOHN AT 1852 
CREATIVE CAMPUS ADVERTISING IS YOURS! Posters. hand-outs. invitations, e1c des1gned professionally and cheaply Contact Polly at 8050. SpecialiZing 1n cal­ligraphy and all types ol print. 
NEEDED: 2 STUDENT TICKETS FOR SEPT 25 PURDUE GAME CALL ANNE 4057 or CARRIE 4167 
NEEDED: 5 GA'S FOR OCT 9 MIAMI GAME WILL NEGOTIATE COST CALL MAUREEN 5506 OR ANNE 4057 
FOR SALE 
1977 MGB, vellow Good condition. Call 291-6713 after 5 Weekends anyt1me 
WOAD PROCESSING SYSTEM, $2995. 64K Microcomputer. letter quality pnnter, word processing software, CP/M. Bas1c. Cal1277-7720. 
FOR SALE: 2 MICH GA TIX. CALL 1-314­862-5748 
The magml1cent 1980 POLK-10 AUDIOPHILE LOUDSPEAKER SYS-TEM.new x·overs and woofers Powerhandling capac1ty of 200 watts Pnce $385 or best offer (new$ 650) Call after 6 p.m. 272-2641. 

_.. 
. I TICKETS
ILOST/FOUND I ._______, 
$100 cash reward offered for re1urn of suttcase Large. Lark suttcase wtth gtrr s clothing lost on August 27 probably near Ma1n C~rcle bus shelter. Please call 255­3068 
lost: Gold cross on gold cha1n If found, call Don. 288-3051 
LOST! 
Wtll the person who walked away from 4th floor STANFORD (an 1ncred1ble floor, by the way) w1th my large stuffed BULL please return 11 to me at 431 Stanford or call 8765 Thank you. 
FOR RENT 
Furn1shed home. 2 blocks from campus. Also country house. 10 mtns from NO Call277-3604 or 288-0955 
WANTED 
NEED RIDE To North NJ Any Weekend KEN 8605 
DESPERATE-: Need ride to LITTLE ROCK SEPT. 25 weekend. Will share usual expenses. can leave Thur or Fn morn. Call Greg 234-2456. 
NEED AIDE TO MILWAUKEE ON SEPT. 
19. CAN LEAVE ANYTIME IN THE AF­TERNOON PLEASE CALL JIM AT 8891 
Willing to sacrifiC$ VIRGINITY/money (in that order) for 2 PURDUE 1ix. BE­CKY/CHRIS 8708-07 
WILL TRADE 2 PURDUE GA'S FOR 2 MIAMI GAS CALL KEVIN 1629 
I need 5 sales people FAST for this weekend. If you'd rather have more money to spend partying next week call Jerry at 277-6496. You will not necessari­ly have to work dunng the game. 
WANTED: Two (2) tix for the Arizona foot­ball game. Call Dave at 234-64 73 after 6. 
THE GANG'S ALL HEAEI -or at least lhey're gonna be here for Michigan weekend! Need 1Q-13 M1ch. 1ix, GA or STU. Have some Miami GA's for trade call: Mike 4388or Steve 1857 
wanted to trade:. 2 m1ch GA 1lll for 2 
Purdue GA llx. call Tom 256-5224 
NEED 2 GAS lor MIAMI game (WILL PAY TOP $) CALL LISA x2244 Help, please 
In-2 Purdue GA's. PLEASEIIll Call John Higgins at 287-4186 (nlghle) or 
23~5323 and LEAVE A MESSAGEJI 
'FOR SALE 2 M1ch. GA 40 yd. hne tickets. best offer. K1m. 288-1917 
needed 1 ~.a or student t1cket for mtamt game W1ll pay B1g Bucks.call Tom at 3160.5 
stud season fb ttc for sale. best offer at 1420 . 
Sale me your M1ch. !IXS. Call Dave 3673 
FOR SALE: 1 MICH STUD. TICKET' LISA x7892 
2 GA MICH TIX 282-1734 ONLY AFTER 6PM 
WANTED DESPERATELY--1 PURDUE STUD OR GA PLEASE CALL WILL 282­1026 
NEED 1 PURDUE GA WILL PAY BIG BUCKS CALL KEVIN AT 1996 
Italian relatives need Purdue tickets BAD. Super mega-bucks. GA or student Call Chns at 3460. 
HELP! U. DAYTON SENIORS HAVE VOWED TO NUKE THE GOLDEN DOME IF UNABLE TO ATTEND MICH. GAME.. NEED 2 TICKETS TO AVOID MAJOR CATASTROPHE... JULIE 3725. 
..WILL TRADE MY 2 PURDUE STU­DENT TICKETS FOR 1 MICH TICKET CALL MIKE AT 1215 
NEED MICHIGAN STUDENT TIX, GREG 7289 
NEED TWO MIAMI GA'S 2255 GREG 
HELPI I NEED 1 OR 2 PURDUE GA'S! CALL JILL 284-5149 
MICHIGAN STATE TICKETS AVAILABLE PHONE 2334051 7-9PM THRU MSU ALUMNI CLUB. 
FOR SALE: 2 Purdue tickets. Call Dave 3673. 

ME TOOIJJ L1ke everyone else, I need M1ch1gan t1ckets for my parents Pleese call M1ke at 272-5124. · 
I NEED 4 GA PURDUE TIX BIG $$$ CALL1364 
NEED 4 MICH AND 2 PURDUE GAS ­WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR I KEVIN 1770 
I NEED 2 OR 3 MICH TIX. CALL JASPER AT 277-3276. 
Help I Mom & Dad are com1ng for the1r 1st game 1n 4 years! I'll buy or trade lor 1 or 2 student or GA MICHIGAN !IX. Please call J1m at 3211 
FOR SALE: 4-6 Michigan tickets 1n vanous locat1ons Call Dave at 3673 anyt1me 
Need 1 M1ch GA or Student lie -Doug 6166 
Desperately need two GA snow lor M1am1 game B1g Bucks. Call ,Joe 1469 
Need M1ch. student & Purdue GAs 289­7640 
WILL PAY $35 FOR MICH STU TICK JOHN 8172 
Will trade 2-4 M1ch. GA's for 2-4 Pi~ GA's Call AL 3543 
Desperately need 2 PURDUE GA's Parents want to see the Irish Please help Call277-7415 
NEED TICKETS: I need 1 m1ch1gan stu­dent tix, three purdue GA's. Please call BRIAN at 1064.$$$$$$$ 
HELP! I NEED 4 TIX FOR THE MIAMI GAME SO MY DADS DRUNKEN BUDDIES CAN JOIN IN THE FUN WITH HIM CALL DAN 4603., NAME YOUR PRICE 
NEED ONE MIAMI GA TICKET CALL HAMIL AT 1527 
WILL TRADE 2 MICH GA's FOR 4 GAs TO ANY OTHER HOME GAME CALL x3669 
DESPERATELY NEED 5 (32) TIX FOR MIAMI GAME CALL COLLECT (312) 961-0423 
NEED FOUR MICHIGAN GA TICKETS CALL Pa1· 277-1836! 
ATTENTION Need tickets to Michigan call Lou at 8760 or8773 
hHAVE2MICH GAS. WILL TRADE FOR 2 PENN STATE,MIAMI,OA PURDUE GA,S CASH. CALL JOHN 1188 
Need 2 PURDUE GAS for parents. Call Leshe288-1734 (best late). 
Need Purdue GAs or student !IX. Call Bud at255-5348 
One M1ch1gan ticket for sale. Haq 239 7139 
NEED ONE STUDENT OR GA TICKET TO MICHIGAN. BIG BUCKS. CALL SCOTT AT 8637. 
Need 1 Purdue Ticket! Call Dan at 17 44 
DESPEAATE!NEED 2 GAs FOR MIAMI. WILL PAY! CALL SUSAN 6983 
HELP! Dad desperately needs GA's for Anzona; please save me from hav1ng to live in South Bend year-round. Need 4 GA's at any cost. Call Rick at 2921. 
Need Many MICHIGAN GA TIX Please call Tom at 117T 
Need two tickets for mich1gan call Lon 277-4768 
I NEED MICH. TIX$$$JOE 283-1154 
For Sale -2 GA tix Mich. game. Call 233­2163 or 234-5778. 
NEED 2 PURDUE GAs or STUD TIX BEST FRIEND & SISTER WANT TO SEE N D BEAT PURDUE CALL LOA IE 7895 
FOR SALE-1 MICH STUDENT TICKET 
CALL BOB AT 288-8402 
PLEASE HELP'II I NEED 1 PURDUE GA $$$$CALL MARK 8332 
FOR SALE · 2 GA TICKETS FOR MICHI­GAN GAME CALL LISA. 277-3196 AND MAKE OFFER 
WANTED: 2 GA's FOR THE NO-MIAMI GAME. CALL JEFF at 1165. 
Need 1 T1cket Sec. 29 or two others lor M1ch1gan Call L1sa x8527 
GA MICHIGAN TIX Will trade lor M1am1 and/or Penn State. Call Collect (815) 385-2769 7-10 pm 
HEY-I'm so desparate for any Mich1gan ticket! You got it. I want 11. and /ve got money to burn!! call crazy C1ndy at 294811 you hke lotsa bux 
WOW I HAVE MUCH MORE MONEY THAN SENSE, ALONG WITH A PRESS­ING NEED FOR 2 MIAMI GA'S CALL KATIE AT 2948. 
NEED 2 MICH. STUDENT OR GA. $40 EACH CALLJOHN 3507 
Need PURDUE GAs or Student t1ckets 
$$$. Call 287-3538 after 6 
Miami Miam1 Miami 
I need THREE student tickets for Miami or I am't getting nothmg for Christmas. Please help me, and I'll give you all my money. Call Jeb at 8630 Merry Christmas. 
2 Purdue tickets, student or GA. needed 
Willing to trade. 233-8163 
Family com1ng for M1am1 game on Oct. 9. NEED 4 Tix Please call Mark at 1177 and name your pnce. 
NEED 2 gas lor PURDUE GAME-·CALL SHOWER BAUER 284-5201 
For Sale, 2 N D.-M1ch1gan GA Call ARTY, 2187 
Trade: Purdue-Anzona student llx & cash for any Mtamt t1x or An zona GA's call Mtke or Scan 1160 
Will pay $70.00 for two NO/Purdue GA·s Call Enc 8218 
M1ch1gan student 11ckel for sale Call Johri at 277-1759 
Need four M1ch1gan t1ckets. Call John at 277-1759 
Need 2 or 4 student or GA tickets to the Miamt game for v1sittng relattves Please call Joe at 6934. 
PLEASE HELPIII VIsiting friend frOm the hills of West VIrginia n-s ticket to Michigan game (don't laugh--'re MMrlous). Call 8765. 
Will trade student season pass (sec. 30) for 2 Penn State GAs. T1ckets must be located between the 30 yard lines. Call Mike at 272-4801. 
TRADE 2 STUDENT PURDUE OR MIAMI FOR 2 ARIZONA GA.DAN 288­8402 
FOR SALE: 5 MICH. GAs & 1 STUD. TIC CALL TOM 1101 
2.80 009/14 WILL TRADE 1 MICHIGAN STU. TICK & CASH FOR 2 PURDUE GA's call3897 
2 Mich GAs For Sate.Best Offer.Call 3454 
NEED TWO (OR MORE) PURDUE TJX. Grandparents have never seen N D game before. Call John Dolan at 3137. 
TIME IS RUNNING OUTII I st1ll desperately NE;ED 2 Mich TIX,Student OR GA. Name YOUR pnce!! Call Gary at 8679. 
Professionally wrestling brother demands 2 (TWO) PURDUE TIX, GA or STUDENT Call PATTI4232 (the life you save may be m1ne.) 
PERSONALS 
MOLARITY UVES/1 

ATTENTION LONG ISLANDERS: K1ck off the football season nght w1th th1s years first LONG ISLAND CLUB HAPPY HOUR Fn., Sept 17, 3:30-7. Bad1n lounge. Be there 
MOLARITY: NO OUTLET .. Aimos1 Iunny . 

Noble Roman's IS now tak1ng applicatiOns tor part-ttme posttlons. Work schedule can be adjusted to your class schedule. Day and night pos111ons open W811ers. w811resses must be 21. Apply 1n person 
AN AUTOGRAPH PARTYIJI w1th M1chael Molinelli, author of MOLARITY: NO OUTLET Thursday, Sept. 16 3pm Basement of LaFortune 
Mtchaers mother wtll be there, too. 

ATTENTION ALL WINDSURFERS IMPORTANT MEEETING AT 6:30 AT THE BOAT HOUSE. DISCUSSION WILL INCLUDE THE FLA TRIP AND OTHER IMPORTANT MATTERS, BAING A CHECK BOOK BURT, SANDY, KARl, JEANNE, AND THE MYSTERY WINDSURFER FROM KEENAN ARE CORDIALLY INVITED ALSO WATCH TOM, THE PRO' DO HIS WINDSURFER DEMONSTRATION -THE WIND 
AUDITIONS' for Ab1ogenes1s Dance Troupe, 7 p.m. Holy Cross Hall Game Room (ND) tonight Information: 283­7976 
Got lfers-Used economy sets. bags, carts Regnp, etc. 3 m1les N ol ND 683-2516 Save thts number! 
Attentton: an orgamzattonal meettng for the MINI SKIRT CLUB w1ll be held on Fnday, Sept 17th at 9:30pm in room 224 Cavanaugh. All are welcome Please wear your mint sktrt. 
Attenllon: another orgamzat1onal meellng Will be held 1n room 224 Cavanaugh on Fnday,.Sept 17th at 9.30 This IS for the FRIDAY NIGHT STUDY BREAK CLUB Be there No pens or books! 
SENIORS !II SOPHOMORES !II 'Riverboat Aide· Fnday Evemng T1xs on sale Wed & Thur, La Fortune, 11:30101 :30& 7-8 
Charlie Burns, Thanks aga1n. We owe yowo,nel The Rescued Party 
Hey, men of F1sher Hall call5132 to grant honorary cittzenshtp to the utttmate Ftsher Fan Sue Seyfert. 
Flanner unfair-G~rls boycott 11th floor bathroom party 
W•nted: Three student tickets for M1am1. Papa 1s in the Mafia and can get you what ever you need... Call Jab at 8630. 
To all who were scavengers or scaven­gees a1 the Cavanaugh Hall Scaven­ger/party; Many thanks for making 11 a rousmg success. Look to Cavanaugh 1n the future for the best in college entertain­ment Yours 1n girls of Greek dsscent, 
Hump mght control. 
Want to succeed tn the class room? Want to be rich? Want to be successful? For more 1nfo. wnte to: JOE CAMPBELL AS­SOCIATES, 26 Dnvers Lane. Laurel Spnngs, NJ 08021 Sales reps. wanted. 
DearLLP Are Uve s grapes seedless? Love. The Demented Bunch 
TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN: I realize 
that lh1s .. thank you.. IS a little late 1n com­mg. but has been hect1c lately To whomever donated the new .. Rat to an empty room and anonymously lifted my sp1nts when I was feeling so cnt1ca/ly low, I wtll never forget that stngular act of un­selfish k1ndness. You wtll always rematn tn my heart and in 
"'
The McCandless Mat1a. work1ng out ol the Penthouse Swtes. announces 1ts GRAND OPENING. CONTRACTS. KIDNAP­PINGS, GRAND THEFT, SLANDER. MUDSLINGING. AND CHARACTER AS­SASINATION You name 11. we·ve got 11-­lor a pnce! Contact: THE GODMAMA (JOJO), VINO. KLEPTO. FAITO, ELECTRO. OR COAAUPTO 
7A FLANNEA 
presents 
QUOTEoltheWEEK Thts week we were unable to dec1de. so we list the top three here. Dec1de lor your­sell (a)lt sure IS a b1g bOx. 1sn I 1!? (b)l want to abuse you. Joe (c)Goodmght. Anne I have to go throw up 
D1d anyone see that claSSIC f1lm. ·The Bushman Invades Moo-goo Land. last Saturday? 
WOMEN WAITING FOR THE WEEKEND, We hardly know you and we hope you wont say no. stnce there ts nothtng to do 1n South Bend, come and see us around 
9:30 on Fnday before our Bash before the 
Clash. Chanc1ng Fnendsh1p 
BOSTON CLUB HAPPY HOUR Fn. 17th 4-? CAMPUS VIEW across Jrom pool Look for MASS flag Bnng bathing su1ts. 
BOSTON CLUB HAPPY HOUR FRIDAY 
BOSTON CLUB BASH-FRIDAY at CAMPUS VIEW-LOOK for MASS flag 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY FRUITCAKE, . ALFRED. 
Call Ton1, 
at 284-5527 and congratulate her on 19 
years of punty and 1nnocence HAPPY 
BIRTHDAY! 
The Shadow 
NOTICE: N.D. Non-Varsity Sw1m Team W111 Have Its F~rst and Only Meet Satur­day N1te After the N.D.-M1ch Game(ln The Reflecting Pool!!) Contact Nora 284­5218 or Colleen 283-2858 For Details. Birthday Suits Optional! 
MOOOOOOOOOOO!!!!III!!!!! 
You old man, may your baskets be balls, 
your liquids be brews, 
and your c~rcu1ts be cool. 
Happy Birthday! 
Uncle Ryan 
ATTENTION SWIMMERS: Volunteers needed 2 hours per week to help w1th the El Camp110 13-week sw1mm1ng program, teach1ng 2-l/21hru 5 year olds at the Mish­awaka YMCA TUES. & THURS. 1-2 PM. Day Care ass1stance also needed at EJ Camp1to. Contact VSO (5293) 
... ....... . ......... GUITARIST needed for Saturday morn­Ing CCD classes at Holy Family Parish Call VSO 5293. 
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED I~ help..ln th~ CCU WAITING ROOM at St. Joe Med1cal Center to serve as a ha1son between families of critical 111 patients and hosprtal staff. Two meetings MUST be attended the evemngs of Sept. 16 & 21 ln1erested? Con1act VSO 5293. 


~~~----~--~-~ 
The Observer Wednesday, September 15, 1982 -page 9 
Devine rejects USFL job 
PHOENIX (AP)-Former Notre Dame Head Coach Dan Devine, citing "a strong sense of loyalty and obligation" to his present employer, said yesterday that he has turned down a possible position with the Arizona Wranglers of the new United States Football League. 
In an exclusive interview with the Associated Press, Devine said he has chosen to remain as executive direc­tor of the Sun Angel Foundation ­the main booster organization of Arizona State University. 
"It's like a marriage," he said. "When you get married, you don't sayTil stay with this until something better comes along.' I was brought here to do a job. My future is tied to ASU." 
But Devine reiterated that he may return to coaching if Indianapolis, ever receives an NFL franchise. 
"That's the only thing that could get me back ... if I'm not too old by that time," said the 57-year-old Devine, who posted a 198-83-15 record in a combined 33 years of coaching at Arizona State, Missouri, Notre Dame and the NFL's Green Bay Packers. 
"Ifthe Indianapolis job becomes a 
...Items 
continuedfrom page 12 
LATE START-This year's season opener is the latest start for the' Irish since the 1973 opening-day victory over Northwestern on Sep­tember 22. 
DUERSON FOR THE DEFENSE -Tri-captain Dave Duerson has been a starter in the defensive secondary since .the third game of his rookie season. A versatile performer, Dave has played every position in the defensive backfield. He also leads all Irish players on the Irish roster in minutes-played over the last three seasons. 
Duerson is one of the premier punt-returners in Notre Dame his­tory. If he returns 23 or more punts this season, he will become the Irish career record-holder in that department. 
FULL HOUSE -Notre Dame Stadium is in its 53rd season oflrish Football. Saturday night will be the 45th consecutive capacity crowd of59,075, and the 93rd packed house in the last .94 games. 
CALLING THE PLAYS -Afterseveral seasons ofshuttling players in from the sidelines to call the plays, the Irish will use arm signals to call the plays from the sidelines this year. 
Another new wrinkle is the use ofthe 25-second clock, which limits te time a team can take betwen plays. The rule is enforced at the option of the home team. N.D. plans to use it, with clocks to be situated adjacent to the scoreboard in each endzone. 
STRENGTH OF SCH,EDULE -Five Notre Dame opponents this season are included in this week's AP Top Twenty They are: No. 2 Pitt, No. 8 Penn State, No. I 0 Michigan, No. I 5 Miami( Fla.), and No. 19 Southern Cal. Nobody said it would be easy. 
GO GET SOME KICKS -The Notre Dame soccer team, now 1·1-1, is looking to iron out its difficulties as it seeks its first-ever NCAA playoff bid. Today the Irish host Valparaiso and on Friday Ohio State comes to South Bend. The Irish must do well against teams in their region to obtain a bid, so do your part and go to a game. 
WEDDING BELLS-Two members ofthe athletic department staff were married over the summer. Congratulations to John Heisler, As­sociate Sports Information Director,and his new wife Karen Croake,a former Assistant Sports Information Director. Also tying the knot over the summer were Football Trainer Skip Meyer and Pam Colangelo. Many happy returns. 
.............•............•...........•..•.................•........ 
Bring this add to the auction and you will receive SSO.OO off your purchase. Minimum purchase $200.00. limit to one card per purchase. 
We wUlliquidate a large selection of HAXDMADE, 
PEllSIOX and OiliERTAL 1lUGS sold piece by piece to the HIGHEST liDDEll 
Public Auction 
PERSIAN & ORIENTAL RUGS 
This list includes OVer4QQvaluabl:> HANDMADE PERSIAN & ORIEN· TAL RUli::> !rom ~...nma, r-at<i:>tall, r1omania, India, Afghanistan, Turkey & Per­sia. Silk investn;ant pieces. Super Chinese, Bokaras, lsphahans, Hunting Scene Kashmir Oums, Ka:;han, Sculptured Aubussons, Tree of Life Tabriz. Kermans and Hallway Runners. Approximate sizes range from 2x3 to 

10x14 
. -·~ 
.. ­
. 
SUHDAY Sept. 19 at 3pm 
• PREVIEW: One hour proor 
MAllBIOTT HOTEL Ball Boom South Bend 
DOOR 
PRIZE GIVEN 
Auctioner: Gabriel Farahan: 
This oller only valid for above mentioned auction. Void .... nere prohibilt-d by law. 
Terms: cash, check or charge 817..&48-BUGS 8702 Keystone Crossing Indianapolis 46240 
~o~aQ QaQQea~ oe ~ugr;, 911(:. 
' ................................................................... 

r .....~~..................................~.......~...................~.......~~~....................................,........._.....................~........~........., 
i Applications for ~ ~ 
~ JUniOR paRents' ~_, ~ ~ W€€1<€110 ChaJRP€RSOn ~ 
i i
i the Student Activities Office ~ ~ LaFortune Building , ~ i i 
i i 
i i ~ They must be returned by 5 p.m. on Friday, Sept.l7~ 
i to the Student Activities Office. i ~ . i ·~ .........,...,._.~..,.. ......~............................................,..~~............................-.................-...........................~................,.................,.........J 

~~~ 
NOTRE DAME vs. MICHIGAN 
HOME NIGHT GAME Saturdav. September 18,1982 
~ Special Attractions *******************.. 
..,.SPECIAL HOURS. SPECIAL MENU .. 
-Open noon to1 am . Featuring our regular dinner menu including all your Bar-B-Que favorites. Famous low prices too! 
SPECIAL CARRY OUT SERVICE· 
By popular demand :our Hickory smoked ribs and chicken offered 'togo' . Call ahead for details and prompt service . 
SPECIAL SANDWICH MENU. 
Not available any other time, bujfor this event.Extra generous B-8-0 Beef, trench dip, ham and swiss -eachonly$4.25or Chicken Teriyaki at$4.95. 
Special Late Night 
* EARTHSHAKERS $2.00 

SPECIAL 3drinks in one
* BUCKETS OF BOOZE $4.00 
SPECIAL 6ozof booze 

* PITCHERS OF BREW 
SPECIAL ~3.75 

*LITRES OF MARGARITAS 
SPECIAL $4.95 11 PM -2:.30 AM in the lOU'!ru! only 

reality and I feel I am the least bit interested and I was contacted, 1 would talk to them. I'm leaving the door open," Devine said. "I think people wanted me to leave a hair in the door with the Wranglers, too. But I wouldn't feel comfortable that way. I felt that a conflict of interest was bound to arise." 
Devine was hired by the Sun An­gels last Feb. 15, but had been con­sidered the top candidate to become head coach and/or general manager of the Wranglers even before the franchise moved here from Los An­geles in August. 
"In fairness to everyone, I thought this is time to clear the air," Devine said, reading from a terse two­paragraph statement his secretary was to deliver to other media mem­bers last night. 
"I didn't want to have a press con­ference because I thought it would be presumptuous for me to turn down a job I never really had. But ifI didn't withdraw my name, nobody would." 
Speaking from a corner booth ofa Phoenix hotel coffee shop, Devine said he reached his decision "over the weekend" after discussions with Wrangler co-owners)im joseph and Brad Liebman. 
Sources say the two parties mutually soured on one another af­ter Devine desired part-ownership of the team, a yearly salary in the $300,000 range and wanted to hand· pick his squad members, front office personnel and assistant coaches. 
Former Irish Coach Dan Devine has turned down a job that wasn't even offerred -as coach ofthe USFL 's Arizona Wranglers. 
-

-· 
,l 




The Observer Wednesday, September 15, 1982 -page 10 
continuedfrom page 12 
would go for naught. However, once again, the Irish fought back and won the first game. 
Notre Dame used the momentum that they had picked up to sprint out to a fast lead in the second game. Utilizing some Michigan State mistakes and playing exceptional defense, the Irish jumped out to a quick six-point lead. 
The Spartans fought back again, closing the gap to 11-7. just as it ap­peared that the party might be over for the Irish, though, they buckled down and won the last four points of the game for the victory. 
The Irish once again were rolling in the third game as they jumped out to another early lead. The score went to 11·7 in Notre Dame's favor and it looked like a sweep was im­minent, but Michigan State fought back, winning eight straight points for a 15-11 victory. 
In the fourth game, the Spartans finally used their size to an ad­vantage, spiking hard shots at the feet of the Irish players. They jumped out to an early lead and stopped another Notre Dame come­back attempt to win easily. 
Going into the last game things did not look too promising for the Irish. Michigan State was playing well and had the momentum. 
... Briefs 

continuedfrom page 8 
The interhall cross-countrydeadline is sep· 
-
tember 21. Men and women interested in the meet should call tht= Office of Non-Var~ity Athletics. -The Ohseruer 
ND Hang Gliding Club 1s being organized. \.all 
Ted Toerne at 28...,·"'"'1-for information. -The Obsen•er 
ND track and field team will hold an organizational 
meeting toda) at 5:~5 p.m. in the ACC Auditorium. Any men ~n­terested in participating in either the winter '>r spring seasons should attend. -The Obset·wr 
The ND Sailing Club will be having its weekly 
meeting tonight at 6:30 p.m. at the boat house..VIemhership cards will be distributed. Also. new members are welcome. If anyone is unable to attend the meeting hut is interested in joining the club contact Don Machado. the treasurer. at 898~. -The Obsen1er 
ND Windsurfers will meet tonight at 6:30 in the boat house. Freestyle AII-Amercan Tim Farrell will give a demonstration. 
-The Obseroer 
The ND-SMCJudo Clubwill start practices under black belt instruction today from 7 to 9 p.m., and Sunday from 2 to 4 
p.m. on the second floor ofthe Rock.-The Observer 
The Notre Dame Open golf tournament con­tinued yesterday. 45 of the original 78 contestants have tlnished 36 holes. The leader at the halfway point is junior David Moorman, who shot a blistering 67-71-138, four under par. Second place is shared by Dave Pangraze ( 72-70-142) and Frank Leyes ( 68-74-142 ). Three surprises round out the leader board. Freshmen Lon Huffman ( 73­73-146) and Blake Garside ( 73-74-147) are just ahead ofsophomore Peter Vidolyak ( 73-75-148). The tourney continues through Friday. 
-Tbe Observer 
The ND-SMC Ski team will hold an optional intra­squad game Sunday afternoon at 3:30 p.m. Meet at gate 10 at the 
A.C.C.-The Observer 


A1i1ROOAI 
1Li\~IDI1Ei\1&? 
Come pick up your DOME 
Atthe Dome office 3rd floor LaFortun Wednesday, Sept. IS Thursday, Sept. 16 3:00-5:00 pm 
1981-82 yearbooks for those who missed them! 
• • • Upset 
Again, Notre Dame showed that 
they were going to play rough. They 
took the early lead and forced the 
Spartans into some critical mistakes. 
Sensing a victory, the Irish played al· 
most flawlessly on their way to a 15­
1 romp, thereby taking the 
best-of-five match, three games to 
two. 

"I'm really pleased about the fact that the girls came back after they lost momentum," said VanSlager. "It's typical to lose momentum, but the girls put their heads together and decided to get the job done." 
Freshman Karen Bauters looked very impressive in leading the team's offensive attack. She served well and !!Cored consistently through all five games. 
All the other players did well also. Mclaughlin, .Josie Maternowski, Mary Jo H~nsler. Terese Henken, Tracy Bennington and Julia Pierson ran their offense well and played ex· cdlent defense. 
"It is nice to have a victory over a 'trong team early in the year."said YanSlager. "It's good psychological· ly. 
"The girls learned 10 win. They now know what it takes to be suc­ce~sful. · 
Ironically. a vulleyhall coach from a South Hend high school brought her team to the game to let them watch and learn from :\tkhigan State's team. 
They did get a good ksson, hut it came from the other ~ide of the court. 

In tennis 

Irish women top rivals, injuries 
By DAVE STANG 
,\ports Wn'ter 
The Notre Dame women's tennis 
team was victorious yesterday over 
Wheaton College, its Division III op­
ponent from Wheaton, Jll. The team 
overcame numerous injuries to post 
an easy 7-2 win. 
The major injury belonged to Sue Panther at No 1 . I singles, who was forced to default during her match against Jane Nelson because of pain in her back. At No. 2 singles, Laura Lee ignored her sore ankle to win 6­3, 6-l over Wheaton's Linda Beturian. Freshman Mary Colligan had an easy time with Laura Lindstrom, 6-0, 6-0. The No. 4 Notre Dame singles player, Lisa LaFratta, defeated Pam Moorman of Wheaton 6-2, 6-3. No. 5 Cathy Schnell beat Kate Werner 6-1, 6-2. At No. 6 
singles, Notre Dame's Camille Cooper overcame a pulled muscle in her leg to defeatJan Nelson 6-2, 6-0. 
Coach Sharon Petro was rightfully concerned about her team's injuries. 
''I'm nervous about all of our in­juries, hut once we're past them, we'll he tough," she said. The in­juries forced Petro to shake up the doubles alignment. Because the second and third doubles teams each moved up a notch, Lisa Gleason and Louissa DeMello were given the opportunity to play doubles togeth­er for the first time. They played well at No. 3, where they defeated Wheaton's Kate Werner andJan Nel· son 4-6, 7-5, 6-4. At No. 1 doubles, Colligan and LaFratta lost to Jane Nelson and Laura l.mdstrom 6·7, 2-6. Yesterday's No. 2 team of Schnell and Roemer heat Wheaton's Moor­man and Buturian 6-3, 6-0 in an exciting match. 

"Wheaton wasn't as tough as in the past because they've lost some players to other s<.·hools due to scholarships," reflected Coach Petro. But she related her happiness with the team when she said, "Everyone played well, especially at singles." 
CFA schoolswin TV suitagainstNG"'AA 
OKLAHOMA CITY (AP) -A federal judge has ruled in favor of two college football powers who sued the National Collegiate Ath­letic Association for the right to negotiate their own television con­tracts, University of Oklahoma offi­cials were told vP•<tPrrt~,v 


\ 
Cocktail Night 9pm-3am 0 IRISH BEAT WOLVERIN 
U.S. District Judge Juan Burciaga ofAlbuquerque, N.M., who presided in the suit brought by Oklahoma and the University of Georgia Athletic Association, mailed his decision to the Oklahoma City federal court to be filed later today, said a clerk at his office who refused to be identified. 
A University of Oklahoma official who asked not to he identified said yesterday the plaintiff-; were told that Burciaga ruled in their favor but expected the NCAA to appeal the case. The ruling would not be an­nounced until today, he said. 
Andy Coats, the Oklahoma City at­torney who represented the plaintiffs, said. "We understand that there was a rather lengthy opinion and that it holds generally in our favor." 
The two schools claimed the NCAA violates the Sherman An­titrust Act in controlling the televis­ing of college football and asked Burciaga to allow them to make their own deals despite a J263.5 mil­lion NCAA contract with two televi­sion networks. 
Tom Hansen, assistant executive director ofthe NCAA, said yesterday in Kansas City that association offi­cials had not heard that Burciaga had reached a ruling. 
"There could be so many different rulings that could go against you," he said. 


IheObrerver======================================= 


T0 d~x=========================w==e=d=n=e=sd=a=.Y=··'=se:::p=t=e=m=b=e=r=I=s=,=19=8=2:::::::;,;.:.p:;a:g:e:;I;::l~, . 
r~~~,.~~~~-m-~F~t~M~ilC?~ 
,--fheNew-N~D~ON-CAMPUSFioriSt--·~ 
-~ror J)at· · I l THE IRISH GARDENS I
IGJ , 9:30pm-11 :OOpm 1 Announces its GRAND OPENING t t Be there for the ribbon cutting in the basement of t t LaFortune at 12:30 Thursday, Sept. 16 f
~ Wecl. ~i~llts t?CJuetll t Large assortments of PLANTS, BASKETS, FLOWERS,f t and, NOVELTIES!!!!! f
I ~ f()r 1 ()~AfiS I tHours: Monday-Saturday 12:30pm-5:30pm t t Just Dial M-U-M·S(6867) to place an order t

1 Enjoy Our Nachos ~ 
t or ask a Question 
L!:!!•.---.J 
·, . 
----~---~------------~ 
:--'. ~-:­



The Daily Crossword 

ACROSS 25 Pertaining 1 A Bates to style 5 Dogrammar 28 Buddyor 
work Max 10 Garden 30 Plot a 
spots course 14 Oxidize 33 Cartel 15 Trojan War letters 
story 34 Noah's 16 -fixe landing 17 With no 36 Fuss 
leeway 37 Plentyof at all leisure 20 Eastern 40 Yoko-title 41 Battologize 21 Mississippi 42 Defrost feature 43 Legal point 22 Fish-eating 44 Seine 
mammal sights 23 Dim 45 Dust specks 24 Clean cafe 46 Bonnet 
tables resident 

Tuesday's Solution 


47 Portal 49 Ruhrcity 52 Alumni, 
for short 54 Emoter 57 Easily,so 
to speak 60 Fitzgerald 
or Raines 61 Hold back 62 To shelter 63 Anon 64 Standouts 65 Takefive 
DOWN 1 Opera standout 2 Breathing organ 3 Charles' 
dog 4 Adegree 5 Yearned 6 Teeming 7 Wedding 
grain 8 Wineof9D 9 Tokyo, once 
10 Deck posts 11 Cut and arrange 12 Greek community 13 Crystal ball gazer 18 Israeli airline 19 July holiday 
23 Mug,toa mobster 24 Jungle 
denizen 25 Drive 26 Express 
one's ideas 27 Certain 
used cars 28 Poisons 29 Field 30 Impression· 
ist 31 Confound 32 Mails 34 Anoint, 
old style 35 Tether 38 Adjust 39 Cupid 45-Hart 46 "Borstal 
Boy" author 47 Librarian's 
stamp 48 Reputations 49 Rams' fans 50 Storage 
structure 51 French town 52 Feds 53 Network 
of nerves 54 Hearty's partner 55 Olympian 
hawk 56 Track event 58 Altar words I 59 Golf score 
Counting The Enemy in Vietnam 
28  The Phoenix  
34  Great Performances  
8p.m.  16  Facts of Ufe  
22  CBS  Wednesday  Night  Movie:  
"Firepower"  
28  The Fall Guy  
8:30p.m.  16  Love Sidney  
9p.m,  16  Quincy  
28  Dynasty  

34 On Stage withJudith Somogi 
10p.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 The Dick Cavett Show 
10:30p.m. 16 Tonight Show 22 CBS Late Movie 28 ABC News Night line 34 Captioned ABC News 
llp.m. 28 Love Boat 11:30p.m. 16 Late Night with David Letterman 
• 



Doonesbury 





Jeb Cashin 
THEY AR£ TRYII(, 10'"'" 
YOU DID?

DWVE". HOW TO u~L 
Wl'rtl ME.. 
\ 
5(1Rf. IH£.Y 

AU THIN!< .I. 
LOO_K LIKE 
ARflf. 
I I 
I 
1 


T.J. Wrobel 
~--------------~-, 
TH£ fAI~ WHO L/l!~D
••• 'WHE/!,1: J. J)£ AD sIXl~f' rJ, #:PPOR\1 No (..( VE 
CATHY f?..AY, FOR C.HANN~'­
SEC.U( ITY 6\JAI(.D t"IAS 
IN THAT ~OM l-AS:T FtoM THf UMPu.s oF TlfE 
BEf.N Dtsc.ovaED IN 
Y£M. W/L/... f.,E f IN£0 THE [)~Of C..!:/J..i#C,. oF ·o 
FoR .STO~INO. oBJE<:.r.s A 1\:00 M 1/'J F.L-A#/1/U., \2 
IN TH-E DO.CM u:I/.. /A/6••• 
HAL-l-. ~ 
THI.S HA.S BHN <ATI1Y RAY Fo~ CJJ.A II#f '­
<;;tx,T~EAI 
NEWS. 


Spike's World 
. .~ ; 

Campus 
•Lunch 
and Dinner -Fast Sign-ups, World Hun· ger Coalition Wednesday Lunch Fast, Cafeterias, Sponsored by World Hunger Coalition 

•3:25 
p.m. -Chemical Engineering Lecture, "The Role ofSurface Interaction in Biomedical and Engineering Systems and Processes," Dr. Dinesh 0. Shah, University of Florida, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 

•4 
p.m. -Soccer, Notre Dame vs. Valparaiso, Alumni Field 

•4:20 
p.m. -Physics Colloquium, "The Solar Neutrino Problem", Prof. Klaus Rolfs, University of Munster, Germany, 118 Nieuwland Science Hall 

•4:30 
p.m. -Microbiology Seminar "SBR Research in the Biological Treatment of Domestic and Industrial Waste", Prof. Robert Irvine, Notre Dame, 278 Galvin Ufe Sciences Building 

•7 
p.m. -Abiogenesis Dance Auditions, Holy Cross Game Room ( ND) 

•7 
p.m. -Placement Meeting, For Science graduating students, CCE Auditorium, Sponsored by Placement Bureau 

•7, 
9:I5, and II :30 p.m. -Film, "Three Days of the Condor", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by AFROTC, $1.00 

•7:30 
p.m. -Pax Christi General Meeting, An Introduction to Pax Christi, Basement of Sacred Heart Presbytery, 

•7:30 
p.m. -Sailing and Seamanship Course, Madeleva Hall, Room 351, Sponsored by United States Coast Guard Auxiliary, free 

•9 
p.m. -Co-Recreational Volleyball, Angela Athletic Facility, free 


' T.V. Tonight 
6p.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 

22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 

34 The MacNeiVLehrer Report 
6:30p.m.  16  M0 A0 S0 H0  
22  Family Feud  
28  Tic Tac Dough  
34  .Straight Talk  
7p.m.  16  Real People  
'  22  CBS  News  Special:  Perspective:  


--~--~---­

down 13 4 and It appeared that the caught up and took the lead. Sports Writer Spartans would romp as expected. Michigan State regrouped, taking Then Mary McLaughlin took her the lead 15 14 d 't d h
· , an 1 appeare t at "I'm happy." turn at the service line. The fresh-' the tremendous Irish comeback 
That was Notre Qame volleyball man standout from Santa Barbara, coach Sandy VanSlager's reaction af­Cali(, gave Michigan State all kinds See UPSET, page 10 ter her team pulled off a huge upset oftrouble with her serves. The Sear-against Michigan State last night in the ACC Pit. 
The victory marks the high point 
Faust reverses field
in the history ofvolleyball at Notre 
Dame. Michigan State, the Big Ten Coach Gerry Faust got his writer, however. The Michigan­
champs last year, came into the game with outstanding credentials. 
channels slightly crossed at the Wisconsin game was on live TV first of his weekly press con­in Wisconsin, and BiiiJauss ofthe
The match went to the maximum five games before the Irish prevailed 
ferences for local and national Chicago Tribune wondered why media yesterday. Faust hadn't thought to have
17-15, 15-7, 11-15, 9-15, 15-l. The Irish showed that gutsy, smart 
Early in the conference, Faust somebody videotape it. play can overcome physical disad­
explained to the writers that he 

After a short pause, Faust ad­vantage. Their opponents had an in­
and his staff had not seen game 

mitted that he had, in fact, had credible height advantage as their 
films of Michigan's 20-9 win over 

the game videotaped "by a shortest player was as tall as Notre 
Wisconsin last week, and that the 

friend," and had watched the Dame's tallest. Some of the Spartans 
lack ofthose films was hampering 

tape on Sunday, the d'IY after the were more than a foot taller than the 
his team's preparartion for Satur­
game.
day night's game.

Irish players. According to Faust, Michigan "But," he quickly added,
"It shows that height isn't always would not provide a game film "that's not the same as having thethe key," said VanSiager. "You can because Notre Dame was unable game films. It's hard to analyze a
have the height, but not the skill." Nevertheless, at the beginning of 
to return the favor. "I wish I game from a TV tape. The one I the match, it appeared that the Irish 
could have seen the film," he saw had a lot ofclose-ups." said. "But I understand why they Faust assured the writers thatwere awed by the Spartans' size. 
wouldn't give it to us." videotaping opponents' games
They played hesitantly as the Michi­The comments puzzled one violated no NCAA regulations.
gan State blockers forced them into 
Who'll replace Crable ? 
Kelty sizes up linebackers 
• By MIKE RICCARDI starting position after an impressive the top replacement among the Sports Writer spring season and a solid showing in linebackers last season. The 6-3, May's Blue-Gold game, but is tem­224-pound Rudzinski should com­
Since its revival in 1978, the Notre porarily sidelined with a shoulder pete t for significant playing time ifhe Dame-Michigan football series has seperation. The 6-1, 209-pound remains healthy. Joe Bars, a 6-5, 225 featured four very physical bal­sophomore looks undersized at first sophomore, provides strongside lgames. And while Saturday night's glance, but raw speed makes him ex­
depth. cellent on pass coverage. Rick DiBernardo and Tony Fur­matchup promises to be no less 
hard-hitting, the Irish will bave to do On the strong side, two-year start­janie lead the list of freshmen in 
battle without the help of Bob er Joe Rudzinski is battling 6-3, camp, and while neither should 
Crable, the defensive anchor for the 
225-pound junior Rick Naylor to crack the lineup this week, contribu­past four seasons. 
·'regain his starting position. Shoulder tions could come sooner than ex­injuries hampered Rudzinski in pected. Californian DiBernardo and
Irish linebacker Coach George 1981. Naylor, a junior out ofMoeller Chicagoans Furjanic and Ron Weis·
Kelly, a 14-year sideline veteran, had (he was Crable's, is the successor at senhofer came to Notre Dame last
the responsibility of reconstructing middle linebacker) is the biggest month as consensus prep All­
Notre Dame's defense around a new Irish linebacker at 6-3, 225, and was Americans.
leader in the middle. Last year, dis­appointing line play meant over­work for the linebackers. This year, _with support from up front, the tackle stats might go down, but over­all effectiveness should increase. 
Replacing Crable in the middle will be the responsibility of Mark Zavagnin, a two-year starter on the weak side and the second-leading Irish tackler in 1980 and 1981. The 6-2, 228-pound Zavagnin made 94 stops last fall while picking off three enemy passes -tops on the team. The defensive captain is not huge, but very quick, with excellent field sense, and a knack for being around the ball. 
Cincinnati Moeller-alumnus Mike Larkin will eventually join Zavagnin on the inside of Notre Dame's 5-2 defensive alignment. Larkin won the 



Wednesday, September 15, 1982-page 12 
·Nn, Michiganwill light up the night 

Rich o,·eonnor 

Sports Writer Items 
Author's note: For the past threeyears this column has been writ­ten by Bill Marquard. While no one can possibly hope to fill his shoes, I will attempt to continue IRISH ITEMS in the same tradition. 
THE SERIES -Michigan holds an overall edge with a record of 1I-4,the only Notre Dame opponent this year to boast a series edge. Since 1978 the Irish and the Wolverines have split two games, with Notre Dame winning two spinetinglers, 12-10 in 1979 on the foot of Chuck Male, and in 1980, 29-27 on Harry Oliver's last-second 51-yard field goal. 
IRISH NIGHT LIFE -Saturday night's game under the lights is a first at Notre Dame Stadium. In night games away from home the Irish have a 1 5-4-1 record -including one Gator, two Orange, and two Sugar Bowl wins. The 1980 season was the last time Notre Dame played under artificial lighting, when they beat Arizona 20-3. Also in 1980, the Irish played indoors under the lights, in the Superdome against Georgia at the Sugar Bowl. 
The lighting units will be mounted on the end ofa 140-foot retrac­table boom fastened to one of six tractor trailer trucks surrounding the stadium. Musco Mobile Lighting, Inc., of Oskaloosa, Iowa, will provide lighting not only for the stadium, but for all surrounding parking areas as well. 
COPING WITH CARTER -Gerry Faust and Bo Schembechler will each have trouble defending against the offensive output of an op­ponent named Carter -tri-captain Phil for the Irish and speedster Anthony for the Wolverines. 
Phil Carter was last year's leading rusher with 727 yards in 165 carries and has a career total of 1,694 yards in 378 carries. He is presently Notre Dame's 13th-best career ground-gainer. Phil is joined on the Irish roster by two other Carters -Mansel, a junior adefensive end, and Ray, a freshman tailback. 
Michigan's Anthony Carter has 118 career receptions for 2232 yards and 29 touchdowns. Six of those receptions have come against the Irish -resulting in two touchdowns. The Wolverine speedster also returns punts (62-637 yards) and kickoffs ( 49-1246 yards). 
"Anthony Carter is the type of ballplayer who can dominate a game by his sheer presence," says Faust. "He may only catch a couple of passes per game, but just the fact that he lines up out there on the outside every play drives a defense nuts. You can never afford to give him any kind ofroom because he'll kill you." 
FOR OPENERS -Notre Dame stands 80-8-5 in season openers. That figure includes aS7-7-3 record at home. Notre Dame's also faced Michigan in the '79 season opener, winning 12-10. Last year the Irish debuted with a 27-9 victory over LSU for Gerry Faust's first collegiate victory. 
ON TELEVISION-Notre Dame owns an overall 38-31-2 mark in televised games, including a 27-21-1 figure in contests televised na­tionally. The Irish have now lost four consecutive nationally-televised games, dating back to their 7-0 win at Alabama in 1980. In addition to the Michigan game on ABC, Notre Dame also will appear on national television against USC, to be broadcast by NCAA newcomer CBS. 
PLAYING POLITICS-Five members of the '82 Notre Dame team got their feet wet in the politieal arena this summer-serving Wash­ington, D.C., internships with members ofCongress. Spending at least a portion oftheirsummer working in Washington were Dave Duerson (Ind. Sen. Richard Lugar), Rod Bone (Ill. Rep. Edward Derwinski), Brian Behmer (Ohio Rep. Ronald Mottl), Jack Shields (Mass. Rep. Joseph Early), and Kevin Griffith (Ohio Rep. Clarence Brown).' 
See ITEMS, page 9 











