--~-~ -~------­
~--~----~ -~---------~~-­
~ --~-~~ -~----· -~-------. 
, .. FJ Salvador-page 6 

VOL XVI, NO. II 7 an independt>nt student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, MARCH 24, 1982 

Election fraud 

Junior officers niount coup 
GUATEMALA CITY (AP)-junior didate. 
ment said that General Fernando 

army officers mounted a coup yes­When no party won a majority, Romeo Lucas Garcia, the president,terday against Guatemala's elected 
the nation's Congress picked the wa.~ believed to be in the palace and military government, accusing it of 
presidential candidate backed by that the U.S. ambassador had spokencorruption and election fraud. the government and the military es­to President-elect Guevara, who was Tanks and armed troops sur­tablishment -General Angel Anibal safe. rounded the presidential palace. Guevara. He was to take office July 1 Helicopters and planes flew over There were no reports ofbloodshed for a four-year term. 
downtown Guatemala City, which 

and it was not immediately clear 
According to the information was cordoned off by tanks and whether the government -target reaching Washington, major 
troops. The capital's international of repeated allegations of human military units in the capital city were airport was closed and civilians rights abuse in the fight against left­
believed under the control ofthe in­were forced to leave their offices. ist guerrillas -was mustering its surgents. 
Shooting was reported near the 
forces to fight the rebels. 

Negotiations were said to be military garrison in Quetzaltenango,
Reports reaching Washington said taking place between the rebels and about 120 miles to the west of the coup attempt was believed to be government officials yesterday after­Guatemala City. headed by supporters of Alejandro noon. The informants, who spoke on Cannon were brought up and 
Maldonado Aguirre, a center-right the condition that they not be iden­aimed at the presidential palace. The 
candidate who was seen as the least 
tified, said one of the objectives of national radio station then urgedconservative of those running in the 
the rebel movement was new elec­civilian employes still inside to 
disputed March 7 presidential elec­tions. 
come out one at a time with their 
tion. 

In Washington, the State Depart-hands up.The voting was boycotted by all groups on the left and marked by al­legations ofwidespread fraud. 
Murday describes trip , 
The coup leaders announced formation of a governing junta in a statement read over the national radio and television in this troubled 

evaluates presidency 
Central American country, a neigh­bor of Mexico and El Salvador. By CAROL CAMP Reflecting upon his year in office, 
The statement, which said the StaffReporter Murday said that his success has upnsmg was prompted by been three-fold: "I have represented "corruption following a fraudulent In an exclusive interview, outgo­the studt:nts' views as well as anyone election," was read by Leone! Sis­ing Student Body President Don in the past in an orderly and profes­
niega Otero, who had been the vice Murday described the findings ofhis sional manner. I have worked close-presidential candidate ofthe Nation­campus study trip during spring . ly with a female vice-president, al Liberation Movement. Maldonado break and reflected upon the ac­treasurer, and cabinet members. I was he Christian Democratic can-have also given the Student Senate
complishments achieved during his term ofoffice. 
some direction and fashion as to how it should function."

Murday revealed some of the strengths of Notre Dame's social life 
Citing tangible accomplishments that were discovered during the made during his term, such as the campus study trip, which took Mur­Oak Room, Murday stated that his philosophy was to "address every
day and a group of students and ad­

Security reports quiet break 
concern students had until we got a 

Northwestern, Duke, Villanova, and yes or no answer." The only other incident was an at­Guard Joe Aramin had graduated Vanderbilt. Murday believes that the report ministrators to Chicago Center, 
ByBOBVONDERHEIDE 
tack on a Saint Mary's student on recently from the Law Enforcement In Murday's view, one of the most the Campus Study group will
Associate News Editor 
March 12 at 1 a.m. The student was Program, a ten-week course of ad­positive aspects of social life at present to the Board of Trustees leaving Flanner Hall and a man vanced training. Notre Dame is the community spirit represents the "culmination ofthreeNotre Dame Security says the described as "husky and very mus­Aramin, a Notre Dame graduate, that exists in the University's dor­and one-half years of hard work."
campus was "relatively quiet" with few security problems during Spring cular" grabbed the student's arm. will have the power ofarrest. Those mitories, adding that "there is so Commenting upon the transition The student escaped to the nearby officers with the power of arrest are much more that a dorm does than a ofoffice, Murday felt that his succes­
Break, and Saint Mary's Security Security Office after striking the as­the "same as any other police officer frat does." The group's findings, sor Uoyd Burke "is doing a good jobreports an even quieter break. 
The only significant incident was sailant in the face. in the state," Terry said. Not all ND which included a comparison ofstu­and going about It (the transition) In 
the apprehension of an adult and "All indications were that she security officers have the power of dent centers at the various schools, the right way." might have hun him pretty badly," Additionally, Murday emphasized
two juveniles for breaking into cars arrest. will be compiled into a report to be 
parked in the D-1 and St. Joe's lots Terry said. Saint Mary's Security reported no presented to the Board of Trustees Off Campus Director Brother incidents at all. in May. See MURDAY, pageS
and stealing the cars' batteries at John Campbell said he has not heard6:45p.m. last Friday. 
ofany off-campus incidents from theNotre Dame security spotted the South Bend Police. Matt Huffman, 0­
South Bendstop
theives, and a chase which also in­C senator, however, said his housevolved South Bend Police ensued. 
was robbed for the fourth time overThe three were finally arrested in break.
the Northeast Neighborhood and 
Worldcoalition walksforpeace
"This time we didn't leave muchthe driver of the car was charged for them steal," Huffman said. Onlywith reckless driving. 
light bulbs, clothes and some shoes By MARY AGNES CAREY tion before they departed early member Marty Smith, of
30, were stolen. 
SeniorStaffReporter Monday. The group was scheduled Cleveland, Ohio. Smith, a poet, has 'We didsome new Terry credited new security to begin its walk through South walked since the movement's begin­procedures for the quiet break. "We Members of The World Peace Bend on Lincoln Way and finish on 
ning to "live the life" of peace he did some new things with a little Walk, a coalition working towards Jefferson Street into Elkhart. wants his poetry to reflect.
things with a little 
more success," said Terry. "One world peace and nuclear disarma­Rev. Gyotetsu Morishita, a Bud­
Maggie Vrana, 36, ofOmaha, Neb.,

thing was a different alarm system in ment, stopped in South Bend Sunday dhist monk, began the forum, stating 
quit a "variety of odd jobs" to joinmore success ' the most vulnerable areas." on their way to New York City. that the world is "facing a danger. 

the WPW. "Learning how to get

Terry refused to divulge further Four groups of 25 to 30 members We can be killed anytime by nuclear 
along in a pluralistic, mini-society.," 

specifics for security reasons. each are marching in different areas weapons ...by nuclear threat." 
has been important for her, sinceSecurity Director Glenn Terry Terry said that even though of the United States. These in­"The U.S. government is trying to WPW members come from "a lot ofsaid the prosecutor's office will wait security has reported more inci­dividuals, along with other coali­make peace by violence," Morishita backgrounds."

until students and faculty members dents recently, but they are ofa "less tions throughout the world, will added. · have reponed any damages to their serious nature." "We think our staff assemble June 12 at the United Na­The walk, which began October Another member from San Fran­cars before taking legal action. is just reponing more than in recent tions Building while UN members 24 in California, was inspired by cisco, Calif., Dave Troup, 31, had 
Notre Dame Security is also in­years," Tt'rry said. convene for a special session on dis­Ven. Nichidatsu Fuji, and Nipponzan known about the walk and had vestigating the theft of stereo The average security "unit," Terry armament from June 7 to July 9. Myohoji, Buddhist Order, according planned to walk for "two to three speakers from the fourth floor of said, includes two grounds officers, WPW members met with Notre to WPW members, and consists of days" but, like Vrana, has remained Stanford Hall. Howevor, Terry said two officers in vehicles, two gate Dame and Saint Mary's students Sun­individuals working towards "a with the group since February 18. the owners were primarily in­guards, and two investigators for five day in the Library Auditorium to peaceful way of life." The walk, according to Troup,vestigating the matter themselves days a week. present their views and share "The peaceful world is given to us gives "ordinary people a sense of without officially involving security. Terry also added that Security opinions on the world arms situa-and we make it violent," states WPW hope." 
r--~---~--=------~-__,-­


ewsBrie/§ 
By The Obsen1er and The Associated Press 
With the space shuttle moving effortlessly through space, astronauts Jack R Lousma and C. Gordon Fullerton exercised Columbia's arm yesterday and wrestled with a long day's flurry of discomforts and frustrations. Day two in space: there was tile damage across the bridge ofColumbia's nose; mist on the cock­pit windows; cabin temperatures too warm, then too cool, then just right; a video camera on the blink; two others out. "The systems problems you normally expect to find were extremely light," said Flight Director Harold Draughon. There was no suggestion of any­thing to shorten the flight, which is to end Monday. The cameras caused the toughest problems. Fullerton needed the electronic eyes to help him grapple a package with the "end effectuator" -hand ­on Columbia's robot arm. An elbow camera was needed to scan Columbia's body for tile damage. Mission Control said the damaged tiles were not located in a critical area. The tiles protect the ship from the heat of reentry. The most heat forms on the ship's un­derside. -AP 
Despite reported White House opposition, evangelist Billy Graham announced yesterday he will visit the Soviet Union in May to attend an international conference on nuclear war and to preach at two Moscow churches. Graham said he was accept­ing an invitation from Patriarch Pimen to speak at a Russian Or­thodox cathedral, and he also plans to speak at a Baptist church. Newsweek magazine reported earlier this month that the Reagan administration was pressuring Graham not to make the trip, fearing the Soviets would use him for propaganda purposes. "I'm sure there has been discussion with our government, especially in that it refers to the country of Russia," said Donald L. Bailey, a spokesman for Graham. Asked ifanyone at the White House had tried to discourage Graham from going, Bailey said, "I cannot speak to that because I don't have that information." -AP 
Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger 
told Allied defense ministers yesterday that the United States "is in the final stages" of preparing strategic arms reduction proposals, a senior U.S. official said Tuesday. However, this official indicated to reporters that the United States would move into a new round of strategic arms control talks only ifthe Soviets refrained from causing trouble in the world. "We are looking for a positive amosphere in which to initiate the talks," said the official, who briefed reporters after the opening round ofa two-day meeting of13 defense ministers 
from North Atlantic Treaty Organizaton nations. 
The strategy session, held behind closed doors, is a semi-annual review ofalliance nuclear planning. The official, who spoke with the understanding his name would not be used, indicated under questioning that a worsening of the situation in Poland might delay the opening ofthe strategic arms talks. -AP 
President Reagan, conceding that he is bothered by questions about his compassion, said yesterday he is trying to save, not destroy, "what is best in our system of humane, free govern­ment." At the same time, the president said his request for $22 bil­lion in defense spending for 1983, an 18 percent buildup, "represents an historically reasonable share ofour resources and is far less than the potential disaster a weakened America could face at the hands of a ruthless, powerful foe." Reagan's remarks were prepared for delivery to the National Conference ofChristians and Jews, which bestowed its Charles Evans Hughes Gold Medal upon 
the president. That award, for "courageous leadership in govern­ment, civic and humanitarian affitirs," caused some controversy within the interreligious, interracial group even before it was given at the black-tie dinner. Reagan is the first incumbent president to receive the award. -AP 
The five Pangborn students expelled from their dorm on Wednesday, March 10 have all found off-campus housing, according to one of the five. Joe Carreiro, a resident in Pangborn, said they asked him to throw down blankets the Sunday night after break, because they were planning to sleep in their cars. After a few hours, however, they contacted a friend in Notre Dame Apartments who took four ofthem in until Monday night. The other was staying with his girl friend. All five have since found permanent . housing. Although Notre Dame Housing director, Fr. Michael Hep­
pen, refused to comment on this particular case, he did note that a student's room and board fee is generally pro-rated in such cases. ­
The Observer 
The Hall Presidents' Councilbegan its transi­tion to the new year with the addition ofseveral new hall presidents 
. last night. The HPC dinner to acknowledge the new presidents will be next Tuesday and the first meeting among all the new hall presi­dents will be held the following week. The HPC announced that Fr. Joseph Martin will be at Notre Dame, Tuesday, April 20, to discuss the topic "Do I or My Friends Drink Too Much." Fr. Martin, of"Chalk Talk" fame, will lead the discussion at 2:00 p.m. in the library auditorium. His discussion will include "good laughs, many jokes, and some serious matter on the subject." St. Ed's annual spring play will be shown April 1,2 and 3 in Washington Hall. This year's play is "The Sly Fox" and is directed by Fr. Mario Pedi. -The Observer 
light rain ending this morning, otherwise cloudy and a bit cooler. High in upper 40s to near SO. light snowdeveloping late tonight and ending tomorrow. Cold with lows tonight in the upper 20s and highs tomorrow in mid 30s. Chance of measurable precipitation 30 percent this morning and 40 percent tonight. -AP 
-.­
~ 
Wednesday, March 24, 1982 -page 2 


Hesburgh trip raises opposition 
--~--­

University President Theodore Hesburgh's up­comimg trip to El Salvador has drawn strong opposition from a campus-based Solidarity group. 
Hesburgh belongs to the United States' observation 
group, one of five national groups which accepted El 
Salvador's invitation to oversee the Salvadoran elec­
tions. El Sal~ador asked sixty countries to participate. 
In an open letter to Hesburgh, the Solidarity group 
urged him to cancel his participation in the State 
Department's mission of observing the March 28 elec­
tions. The group maintains that the elections are non­
representative of the Salvadoran people because 
"opposition candidates and supporters are threatened with death upon public appearance in the country." 
The Solidarity group added that a truly democratic process is "currently impossible" because El Salvador is in a state of civil war. A recent U.S. News and World Report article noted that no matter what the outcome of the elections, Washington's prospects for achieving democracy in the war-torn Central American republic "look slim at best." 
The article adds that "few observers (in El Salvador) expect the balloting to open the way for settlement ofa guerilla war that already has claimed more than 32,000 lives since fighting erupted two years ago between left­ist rebels and a shaky American-backed junta" 
A letter presented Congress last Thursday Representative Don). stated that the elections are "unlikely bring the conflict closer to solution. Although fair and open elections would desirable, such elections are not presently possible." 
The letter emphasized 
that the United States has 
situation," most 
resulting in increasing quan­
tities of military assistance 
and perhaps American com­

bat troops in order for the junta to survive. 
In a recent interview with the South Bend Tribune. 
Hesburgh described the current atmosphere in El Sal­
vador as "a witch's broth," claiming "the right says if 
you don't vote, we're going to shoot you. The left says if 
you do vote, we're going to shoot you." 
The Solidarity group said it believes the political reality ofEI Salvador will be misrepresented to U.S. ob­servers, citing that blatant violations will probably not be visible to observers on election day since the politi­cal coercion is taking place now. 
Any fraudulent activity will most likely take place in 
the countryside and behind the scenes, according to 
the Solidarity group. Hesburgh said in the Tribune in­
terview that whether foreign observers will be allowed 
to visit polls in the countryside has not been 
determined yet. 

The left has refused to participate in the elections, 
and the Solidarity group noted that the present regime 
has refused any negotiations with the Democratic 
Revolutionary Front (FDR). 

Congressman Gerry Studds stated that "a list of 138 'psychopaths', 'traitors', and 'terrorists' which the military declared its intention to 'relentlessly pursue'" was compiled by the Army last spring. He noted that this list included every significant memher of the FOR's leadership. 
The Solidarity group claims Heshurgh's personal safety in El Salvador is a major concern. Following a meeting with Hesburgh yesterday, a Solidarity group member noted that "Hesburgh implied several times that he was risking his life in making this trip." 
"Hesburgh listened to our point of view during the meeting, but said he had made his decision and we weren't going to change that decision. He admits that this is a near-impossible situation, but explained that he 
is trying to help bring about a peaceful solution, the member said. 
"( Hesburgh's) rationale is that power is needed in or­der negotiate, and he believes that Duarte is our answer. Hesburgh thinks 
that  the  vote  will  give  
Duarte power."  
Right-wing  challenger  

Roberto D'Aubuisson, a cas­hiered army major allegedly involved in the 1980 assas­sination of Archbishop Os­car Arnulfo Romero, is showing strength in the final days of the campaign. D'Aubuisson has pledged to exterminate the leftist rebels if he becomes presi-
With the many ambiguities surrounding the upcom­ing Salvadoran elections and with Congressmen and Notre Dame's own El Salvador Solidarity group citing doubts concerning the voting process, there is dis­agreement over what the election will accomplish, and what Hesburgh's participation implicates. 
The Solidarity group claims Hesburgh's presence will legitimize a "fraudulent" election process. Congress­men criticize U.S. policy toward El Salvador. Maybe, as Tribune reporter Gail Hinchion implied, the problem is a lack ofcommunication. 
Hesburgh said in that interview that of all the State Department-selected observation team members, he thought he was the only one who spoke their (El Sal­vador's) language. Maybe the communication gap be­tween the observers and the Salvadoran people extends far beyond this peculiarity. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views of the author, and do not necessarily represent the views ofThe Observeror its editorial board. 

Design Editor ...................... Maura Murphy DesignAsststants........................Jim Keyes 
Mike Quill Layout Sta.ff. ..............................joe Flowers Typesetters..........................jim MacLennan 
Tom "Panic" MacLennan Ntgbt News Editor ............... David Sarphie Copy Editor ........................... Diane Dirkers Features Layout: ....................... Tari Brown SportsCopyEdttor...."My Man" Dziedzic Typists..................................... Laura Degnan 
BetsyPoner ND Day Editor ................Tom MacLennan SMC Day Editor ............... Toni Rutherford Ad Design ...................................John & Bob Photographer..................................... Cheryl Guest Appearances ............Troublemaker 
Ray ..who wants to typset?.. Inglin Room 340 Morrissey Catholic Girl in Trouble Kentucky Fried Squirrels Happy Binhday MAC!!! 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer IS publ1shed by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary s Col­lege Subscnp!lons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnt1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer 1s a member of The Associated Press All reproduct1on nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 


The Observer Wednesday, March 24, 1982-page 3 
Irish Feis , 'Kisser ' 
An Tostal to offer new-events 
Cawneen. However, "Some of the "However, the An Tostal Feis, based 
ByMARK WORSCHEH 
less popular events are being on the actual event in Ireland, will
News AssistatJt 
changed, and some events arc just replace the Wake. The Feis will being modified." feature the band Citizen Kane and The: melting of the snow and will follow a costume party theme." 
One major change for 1982 wiU
greening of the grass can mean only be the cancellation of the irish Another event which will not 
one thing to winter-weary Irishmen 
Wake, the festival-ending celebra­return is the Mass Assassins game,-the coming ofAn Tostal, the tradi­tion held last year. which caused a number ofproblemstional spring festival of events, last year. The game Involved personsgames, and celebrations. 
"The event will no longer be held stalking and attempting to shoot Opening on Tuesday, April 20, An because of alcohol problems in the their assigned victims with a toy 
Tostal will be "basically the same as past with the lrlSh W~e and the gun. last year," said Chairman Kevin Polish Wedding," Cawneen said. 
The fate ofAssassi11 was actually determined last year when Dean Roemer asked Student Activities 
Director james McDonnell to dis­continue the game for "reasons con­cerned with the safety, maturity, and general psychology ofthe game." 
Heppen rejects complaints 
ofdorm damage mischarges 
In its place, Cawneen plans to propose a Kisser game to the ad­
By CAROL CAMP The purpose of the report is to 
ministration. 

StaffReporter describe the room's current condi­tion, and is signed by each of the "The format ofKisser is similar to room's occupants. This procedure is Assassin" said Cawneen, "but the
According to Student Housing repeated at the end of the year, and philosophy and some procedural
director Fr. Michael Heppen, no stu­residents are fined only if they have details are new. In Kisser, a person
dent has been mischarged for room 
caused damages to the room. can eliminate another player bydamages. 
either kissing them or sticking them
Heppc:n's comments were in Ifdamages occur during the year, with an official lips sticker. I believe response to the complaints of some they are reported to the hall rector it will be a much safer alternative tostudents living in the same room for by the dorm RA.'s or the maids. It is 
Mass Assassins." 

two years who complained of being then the-responsibility of the rector charged twice for the same room to investigate the extent of the In addition, Cawneen promises 

damages. damage. that the Talent Show, which did not materialize last year, wiU take place 
This student was one of many taktng advantage ofyesterday's

"I wasn't aware that there was a 
If the report is found to be ac­on Thursday, April 22, at Saint warm weather to practice his frisbee techniqiU!. (photo by Cheryl
problem of students being charged 
curate, the rector then reports the Ertelt)
Mary's.

twice for damages," Heppen ack­incident to Heppen's office. If the nowledged. 
rector's report is accurate, the stu­The majority of An Tostal's other 
Outlining the University's policy dents involved are then fined for the events will remain unchanged, ..............................................

,. ,
ofcharging dorm residents for room damages which have occurred. according to Cawneen. Returning damages, Heppen stated that the will be the Car Stuffing, Keg Toss, 
I ~ORS I
condition of each room on campus Heppen noted that there is a sig­Chariot Race, Innertube Waterpolo, is Inspected and reported to the nificant amount of damage which Mud Volleyball, and the now­I I Housing Office by the dorm's RA's at occurs annually due to the large infamous Bookstore Basketball 
I Senior Tripsign-up and collections I
the beginning ofthe year. number ofrooms on campus. tournament. 
I ~
WEDNESDAYandTHURSDAY 


I I
1 $50 NON-REFUNDABLEdeposit I ~ saves you a place! 1
DRAFT BEER SPECIAL 
~ LaFortune 
·I




$35.00 
I LeMans lobby 11-1 pm ; 8-9 pm I
I I
iL.-.-..............................................1
(INCLUDESKEGOFBEER, TAP, 50cups,ICE, &SALESTAX)* 
Your Choice BUD, BUDLIGHT, BUSCH, NATURAL, STROH'S 
"UNITED'; 
The Beer Co. 
287-1067 

Daily 8:30-4:30 Sat. 11 :30-1:30 (NEWCONVENIENT HOURS) 
·~ 

LOVERBOY 
With Special Guest 

Michelob/ MICH IJGHT $40.00 
~ 

Heineken 566.00 
FRIDAY, APRIL 16 8 pm ACC-Notre Dame Univ. South Bend, Indiana Tickets $9 and 10. Reserved Seats.

*(Does not incluae any deposit charges) 
Ttckets avatlable at A C C Box office. Robertson's 1n South Bend and Concord Mall Elkhan Truth Ftrst Source Bank cmatn OlftC8) St Jo5eph Bank cmatn OlftCe) and Suspended Chord •n Elkhart 

Produced by Contemporary with Sunshine 



Wednesday, March 24, 1982 -page 4
The Observer 
IN SOLIDARITY WITH THE PEOPLE OF EL SALVADOR on the anniversary of the assasination of ARCHBISHOP OSCAR ROMERO March 24, 1980 in San Salvador, El Salvador 
111 ••• reforms are worthless if they 
are stained in so much blood. 11 
Mi/18d Mat8rgo.$1 RIS WyboiSki LDu&e Be~rey SyfvisJimenez Mary Ann Fox,SP EtJ..etdJ. McAI8e Ullendoi.DrrrJ6. OP PhiiManz 
Bro. Richatd Raa;h,SM Rich Mcl.al.4lhlin Rsgireid Curre Vinnie WhiiiJ Elen Be/Ill, IHM Crag Price Joan Doye,SNJM MitchMoom Elen Rale Fold, SNJM MJ. Murray 
Mary UrtJanSchUirflCher, CEF GeoffParker 
Te/'8!11 Ann Cllllilhan JohnRevotd RobertL Meyer Sl8>e Margine Aljs LCurrier, IHM Benedict McWhirter Beth.Jones Kat8n Olron ElenSchneider Nicoe Cllndisno MikeMazzofi Mary Ann Fenwick And~&wSchindpeen Kallyl.aahy MarkShefBni TheRLXBeiS SVA Bob lnlilnger Bob Gotmfll) Jim Fer618msker, esc 
Cecilia Serre MariettaStarrie, CSJ AnnDetlch BethDomnick ChuckRuhlln MartyJimenez Shae 118tkins carol Mul&ney 
WfflismBesiBdo JimWo~ 
"Without God there can be no true 
concept of liberation. Temporary 

liberations, yes; but definitive, solid 
liberations -only people of faith can 
reach them. 11 
CllrolA Porter Andl89 and BrllnSheppsl PeggyRoech Magr. John Egan Helen Hcsinskl Jim and Mary Ann Roemer JoeGodtmy Maumen Morin AllilnDmyer SueFesrirg Anonymolll Jim and Marilyn Bells Ret>handfisg ~i;sert Judith Ann Beattie, esc 
MaiCisl.aMay PatSulli-..en, esc Mikeftq;Jerty SlllSn Kintz /a, esc Anne Kellanbsl'(j Rilll Kopczyrr;ki Tom Gain UndoKJurg Anne BeiSenti ArmmisM. 1181!1on William Ttaylor, esc 
Jooeph M. Berry, esc Pel8rand Kit Thornton RobertandJeanneRodes Conlfldand Kathryn Kellanbe'f} Roreid C. Griffin • TeiU!II Godwin Phelf;f; BeiTflni DobiBnSki Ed..etd McGlynn Gaffney Don McNeil( esc Derlane Cllrlron DelolfJ6F9in Nercy ~olo,...ki MarlouHe/1 Lindo /Srrirgton 
Kathleen M. Blfldey Cllthy ltln Pars Di>.re A Smith 
C. KraiBS 

Shawn C. and Lynnetill Robirr;on ConKey GsorgeandJoetta Kuprisn Jean Gotmfll) JoeCasgro..., PeiBrGahill JohnLSulli-..en Rilll Kopczyrr;ki 
" ... 1 have an obligation to see that 
faith and justice reign in my 
country ... " 
Dol4l Honeywell Richatd Turgeon Cllrmine Buorsiuto 
Patcawey 
Michael FolfJ61T"fJ.n
JohnJoyoe Terry Brown Richetd Ctme, esc Den DennehyJlmDevid, esc Tom DooleyKevin P. O'Connell, esc Bmndon Conroy
Joe Corpora. esc RichatdSmith 
ELgSne A ThaiiT"fJ.n, MM Sl8>eStetz
Doreld F. Miller, C85R 
MikeKirg Anre Mare Aagieni Thorrss BliJnz, escCharles B. Gordon 
Anonymolll 
MlggieBl8tt PeterRO<XB, esc 
TomMerriiT"fJ.n 
Mary P. P<&kietGsrani Locey 
KevinFetJJ Mitchell Lifton 
Jim Tyrt811
Stephen Ra;s 


DeeSchlotledt Bii/Stomy 
Gso'!lf' McAleer Jeri Brown 
ChrsBeem 
DenMcGtathMike O'Brian John Murphy CllthyKIIJIBSste..., Miller 
JerryPal& 
Parnes M. Biracme

KevinOShaa 
Ed George
John Taylor 
l\al18ri&;t

F18r1Cryen RobertFiolfJ6
Gary Dum/, esc 
Joyoe andd D:<\n:y Chsholm

.BnComy Ma~ehmont Ko185
Patl..ogin 
Vt8ni Hommes

John Lawton Dee Ko~&S 
Mary LDu MaiChetti, CSF 
SueGass

"...1 do not believe in death without resurrection. Patty Heckett 
Joefisgotti
PeiB Mahoney, CFX 
MarkShaehan 
Den Ne6on, OFM 
Jam Gsl/sgher
JohnRodo 
Femon G Ri>era

If they kill me, I shall rise again in the 
Mike Burton 
Jooeph P. Egan, SA 
R)en Wesn 
Greg O'Moara 
Mic-1 Mlggio 
Greg.Jeffries

Salvadorean people." 
Martha WizqUBZ 
Jim Outley
Jean Lenz, C13F 
Phylls Tlalka 
.BmeB rBurtchaell. esc 
JosnAidolll 
Donre Tae-..en 
Elen Rochetee.u Pike 
Toby Martin 
FradPike II 
TomMd3teen 
Laopoido Abrego
Mare ~IIT"fJ.nn, CND 
Deborah Kor!ll 
~~.•.the voice of those people 
without a voice... '' 
JeromeJ. Wison, esc GregHi{IJins C.IIOOa Pomer/Jeu, esc Staney ISuefWBS Bob Antonelli, esc Devid £Sche>er. esc Tom Merr{11n Joeii1C8llde& TomGstghan KimCumyr Tom Brady Den Bell Tom Bowen Larry Simon Tom Mcl.al.4lhlin, esc Fr. Mark Fitzgetald, esc Thotrm Deriek Bro. John Dotan, esc ThorrssJ. Moos, esc Fr. E O'Connor, esc Vera 1181ton Bmndon Hudlon Mark ltln W...Snho>e MarisBel&lta EmmettShal4lhnsssy KevinCoye 
JohnSchrom AmyKizsr Ed Bel/irghaiBSn Beth Healy Philip Tucker MarkR Bmen Jeff Yandle Jooeph Del.a>e Bob Ellermeyer MikeCuroe Anonymolll Frad M. lsmcs Anonymolll Argelo Gapazzi 
Sandra Pete!Son Laopoid A Abrego 
John Denis Peter wcarter Rev. Ernest Berte!( esc Mlris IJ..rz Corors Bro. Rod Strube, esc RobertS. Pelton, esc KanYomo Emmy LDu fep3ndri>. 
"May my death, if it is accepted 
by God, be for the liberation of my 
people and stand as a testimonial 
of hope in the future." 
AnneScheu Charles R. Hutti,.R 
Joan Do>erspike Bro. Temnoe Muehenkamp, esc Diane Koch S .Bne Pitz, CSJ Ernesto and Aurora Bcobeoo Dr. ElisabethSch~mer F1omnm Rorsld M. &Bkin Joe Me T8f113rt, esc Kenneth and Marie Petrini Bro. Albert Rim/irger, esc Susan Robers Re~ JonnJ. Fi11g8tafd. esc 
Sr. Corr;tanoe Gaynor, F/.£C ChristopherJ. Dmyer, esc Devid Nermtt MatthewPaw&k Berrstd Doerirg TomMJddix,esc Thotrm W Gedeon.SJ Bro. l:Bvid Beltrinic, esc AnneSmith Bro. Bruce l.a6cher, esc 1\armn Wrght Mark Alliin HirchiT"fJ.n 
Charlie Fletchirger Giii.Descher Bro. Bill Me ...... esc carolAnn Mooney Kevin /Syas MJry TuffJ•. esc Ted Gutrrsnn RitaS&ttery, esc Celeste /Snk Kathleen Moroney, esc Brid}et LDwry Vincent GtBrino Mary Sou& Ted Rothrock 
PatPalmer Bob Bill Bro . ..Bmes£ Field, CFX Mike ConneiS, esc MarkSear& Sel J!guiera Gerald V. Latdner Jim Kramer John Allyn Melloh,SM RobertRoetzsl 
" ...in the name of God, stop 
the repression!'' 
Paulita Pike 
Jim Fl8dorichson Tariq·Ansari Rockbead Moie
Cindy 1181ter 
Mic-/De~t 
Kevin Behrndt Kevin >\ash PaufitaL/oplfKamn Corbett and Family OttoMKturo
Tom 
GFerrau1 
fily 
O.C. Ferraudi JohnLDney D&ne Orozr:o 

The Second Annual Walk commemorating the martyrdom of Oscar Romero will be held tom morrow, March 25tli . Meet at Sacred Heart Church at 4:30PM or at St. Joe's High School at 5:00PM Liturgy 7 PM St. Stephen's Church, 1102 W. Thomas 
Wednesday, March 24, 1982 -page 5
The Observer 
-~----~

-~--~-------------------------~------~---­
.....l 
l 

Inflation ratedo-wn inFebuary 
WASHINGTON(AP)-Tumbling year. Nevertheless, they said con­White House spokesman Larry gasoline prices and the recession sumers can look forward to a Speakes hailed the price report as hdd inflation to a 3 percent annual relatively modest rise of6 percent to "good news for every American." rate in February, and economists 8 percent for all of 1982. That would The Reagan adminisration has 
said retail prices would continue produce the smallest inflation rate been frustrated by the fact that inter­
their slow rise for several more since 1977. est have so high
rates remained months. Inflation, which advanced 12.4 despite the falling inflation rate. Len­Prices for new cars and heating percent in 1980, has been unwind­ders have kept interest rates high 1 fuels also declined in February to off­ing at unexpectedly rapid partly they record
an rate because fear set substantial increases for some 
over the past year. Economists at­federal budget deficits that loom food products and limit inflation at tribute the favorable trend to the 
ahead will reignite the double digit inflation the nation endured in 1979
the consumer level to the smallest worldwide oil glut, which has a and 1980.
advance since July 1980, the Labor depressed energy prices; severe Department reported yesterday. recession, which has dampened Inflation moderated to an 8.9 per­
Since December, the report said, demand cars other cent for For 12
for and con­rate 1981. the consumer prices have advanced at 
sumer goods; abundant food months through February, it has an annual rate of only 3.7 percent, 
supplies, which has kept food prices slowed further to a 7.7 percent rate. Economists say the falling rate is due
the lowest pace in nearly six years. stable, and high mortgage interest Economists said such a low infla­rates, which have held down house more to the oil glut and good har­
tion rate will not last through the 
prices. vests than any Reagan administra­tion policies. According to Tuesday's report, consumer prices rose a seasonally

Reagan tax breaks 
adjusted 0 percent during February, the smallest rise since the last reces­sion 18 months ago.

aid innercities 

The department said that if prices ctttzcns who would rather have a job
WASHINGTON (AP) President were to keep rising at February's Reagan unveiled a package of tax than a handout," Reagan said at a rate for a full year, they would 
breaks and cased government ceremony in the Rose Garden as he produce a 3 percent inflation rate. 
regulations yesterday to lure new signed the proposed legislation. "We're seeing the benefits of the 
businesses and jobs to blighted in­"It's time for us to find out if two 
severe recession," said Allen Sinai, of ner city areas "left out of America's of the most dynamic and con­Data Resources Inc. in Lexington, economic mainstream." Mass. "We should be getting good
structive forces known to man ­Notably mtssmg the results in inflation for the next three
from free enterprise and the profit motive proposed legislation was an idea -can be brought to play where to six months." strongly favored by business government bureaucracy and social
to February's "figures ...should set waive the S3.35 an hour federal min­programs have failed." the pattern for the next four to five imum wage for young people Housing and Urban Development 
months," added Thomas D. Thorn-' employed in depressed areas. Secretary Samud Pierce said that 
son, chief economist at San Fran­"hundreds, probably thousands" of
The administration had con­cisco's Crocker National Bank. sidered including a sub-minimum area'> across the country are Most economists expect a pickup wage hut backt·d down in the face of depressed to· the extent that they in inflation later this year as energy 
opposition from labor groups and could be considered for the prices stop declining and an ex­Reps. Jack Kemp, R-N.Y., and Robert program. pected recovery in the economy im­c;arcia, D-N.Y., who agreed to let He predicted the program will proves consumer demand. But they Reagan substitute his proposal for serve as an incentive mostly for also anticipate that a slowdown in legislation they first sponsored in small businesses, rather than in­wage increases will help moderate 1980. . dustrial giants, to move into blighted inflation. 
Under the program, the Depart­areas. The government said the unad­ment of Housing and Urban Pierce said the success of the justed Consumer Price Index rose to Development would be authorized program depends on the extent to 
283.4, meaning that goods and to designate 25 areas a year as which state and local communities services costing S100 in 1967 "enterprise zones," making are willing to roll back regulations would have cost 5283.40 last employers digihle for a battery of governing business. month. tax and regulation concessions from federal, state and local governments. "Clearly, decades of spending progran1s have done little more than 
"Beaux Arts Goes 
subsidize the status quo and make 
wards of the government out of 


to the Louvre" 
Saturday, March 27,1982 
.. . Murday 

9:00 pm until? 
continuedfrom page 1 
Featuring the Tarantualas 
the importance of initially establish­
ing long-term goals and ways in 

53.00 presale 53.50 at the door
which to accomplish those goals. He 
expressed the hope that "Lloyd 

at the Arch. Bldg. 
(Burke) and Bob (Yonchak) will continue to address those problems which I have worked on during the past year, in addition to facing new problems." 

Murday concluded by expressing his satisfaction at having served as Student Body President by saying: "It's been very rewarding -the best job I've ever had. I've learned more from it than from my four years of school." 
PITTSBURGH CLUB EASTER BUS SPECIAL HOLIDAYFARES!!! $38.00 round trip $26.00 one way 
Sign-ups: ~fHIS SUNDAY--March 28 at 8:ooPM in LaFortune Little Theater. Bus leaves N.D. Thursday, AprilS at 4:ooPM from C.C.E. Bus returns on Monday,April12 at 1:00PM from Greyhound Terminal in downtown Pittsburgh. Payment must be mad~ in FULL at sign-ups. No Refunds. Questions? ·-Call Brian Eichenlaub at 1581 · Elections: a meeting willfollow sign-ups for those interested in runningfor nextyear's officers. 

Robert Rosenblum, New York University, delivered his lecture, Towards Photography: Painting in the 1830's, to a large crowd In the Annenberg Auditorium last night. (photo by Cheryl Ertelt) 








"o<fetredt 
A cha\'\Ce -\o ~e re\'9io\JS \if~ cts ~ sic;.\a-of -&e \\dly CrDSs 
'-'PriL 2.-3 
1pm fr\db~ -?pm Sdt\Jrclt.y 
t;f. Mary~ SOLtlUDE 
~· ~rfs c~pus.fo re~ister awl: . 
sr. PaT Mc.caee c.~ 
13~~:~~~-~-~~~~~~~--------~ 
! 
ICELINDIIR lmODUCES
I 
NEW BAROIIN FARES TO
I 
MORE OF EUROPE.
I 
WIEMBRO PARIS-----.,
I
I 



'499 •581
I ROUIDTRIP 1-DTRIP 
FROM CHICAGO FROM CHICAGO 
I 

Z1J111C11 FRIIKFURT
I
I 

•599 •557
I ROUIDTRIP ROUIDTRIP 
FROM CHICAGO FROM CHICAGO 
I All Apex Foroo: Apnll -Moy 14. 1962. 7-90 cloy stay (7-60 doys Luaom­boura). Slopoven prrmlttrd m both d•ncuona. 14 day adYance purehan requ1rrd. Seau hm1ted. A1k abour our low coat Normal. Same Day. and Group fans. too.
I! ALSO LOW COST CONNECTING SERVICE TO NICE AND AMSTERDAM. 
r. lcelandair to Lu'xembourg. Luxair or Crossair connecting service 
~ to 0:~:::.:::~~:~rvation. • 
Free wUle with dinner, cognac after. 
r. • Bargain Stopover Tours of Iceland and Luxembourg. • Bargain car 
! rentals.• Purchase tickets in u.s.• All fares subject to change and 
r. government approval. 
I ~~'"'""~'"""'~C;~;i;;~;;. 
NOW MORE THAN EVER YOUR BEST VALUE TO IUROPI
I1 



r------=--_-_---=----­
--_--_-~~-----=----_~_----=------=----·.-=--------=---~­
. Editorials 
Wednesday, March 24, 1982-page 6 
In search of a type of writing 

Whew! What I had to do to get to this typewriter! You see, at this very moment, I am here at school on break and have decided that it would be a good idea to get this column done ~d Q!!!_ ofth~. 
Michael Molinelli 
This column has been given to me by the new Obseroer editorials editor who figured I might actually have something to say that wouldn't fit in a four panel "Molarity." Since I'm graduating in May, if I didn't have anything to say, no one would have to listen to it for very long anyway. 
Back to the subject ...I've been trying to get to a typewriter but they all seem to be either locked up or in exile. I would use mine, but two years ago I returned the carriage and it kept going. Most of my friends with typewriters are either at home relaxing, in Florida sunning or in Colorado seeing 


El Salvador's whole picture 
In this, the second ofa two-part series on El Salvador, Venezuelan student Edgardo Tenreiro ex­amines the accomplishments of the Duarte government and the responses of the leftist guerrillas to Duarte's social and political reforms. 
Amajor factor in the faulty views concerning the El Salvadoran situa­tion stem from the unclear in­formation about the present junta's policies toward political, economic and social reform. 
Despite all the difficult times and misinformation, Duarte's government has fulfilled three very important goals. 
By gradually gaining control over the conservative military sec­tors, it has prevented a rightist coup, which would bring the country back to the old structure. Through this control, it has also diminished many of the crimes committed by the conservative military against El Salvador's citizens. 
Duarte does not excuse these brutal injustices, but he explains: "One would have to think about what it means to count on armed forces who were told for over fifty years, 'Power that is not used loses prestige.' These people have dominated the country with ter­ror, and we are forced to govern 
the country with those same 
policemen." 
To help remedy that situation, the young military commanders have ordered the armed forces to respect civilians. More than five hundred members of the armed forces have been dismissed for this abuse. Also, rightist military leaders have been removed. Rota­tions of soldiers in provinces has been instituted to break old loyalty to oligarchs who used them to in­timidate and kill peasants. 
The second goal, the land 
reform, has been the most com­
plete ever accommplished in the 
Americas. More that 350,000 land­
less peasants are now landowners. 
Reports show that, even in civil war, the new cooperatives are producing more and better crops thari the old land structure. 
Lastly, an electoral commission was named, and hopefully, elec­tions will take place this coming March 28th. However, the leftists guerrillas are not going to par­ticipate in these elections, though Duarte insisted that a political solution can be obtained by leaving the weapons behind and joining the elections. 
Guerrillas do not want a free election, but a new government. The junta answers that the leftists want to win by negotiation the power they cannot obtain by force. This negotiation would lead to the installation of a government similar to the firsts juntas. 
Experience has shown that when the Marxists joined the government, the violent guerrillas actions did not stop. 
While the media has failed to recognize the positive effort ofthe Duarte government, the press has overlooked the guerrillas' destructive activities. In the begin­ning, the military actions of the leftists were centered on kidnap­ping, bombings, intimidation of peasants, and the assassination of government sympathizers. Then, they focused attacks on economic objectives: bridges, roads, electri­cal installations, banks and businesses. 
Currently, guerrillas are obstructing the electoral process by direct violence against towns and by intimidating possible voters. Another strategy used is the penetration of the international press. 
For example, leftists gained major public attention when they destroyed the most important air force base, giving the impression that they can attack anywhere in El Salvador and that they are winning the war. 
Five weeks ago, members of the guerrillas guided reporters from The New York Times and The Washington Post among others through the Morazan province and obtained a front page information that described the guerrillas as noble· savages and the armed forces as cruel savages. 
Ifthe Marxists guerrillas were as popular as some Americans, Europeans and Latin Americans think, they would make an effort to participate in the elections instead of boycotting them and threaten­ing the voters. 
Scholastic recently published pictures of "military labor" with­out a clear explanation of El Sal­vador's military structure. Aposter used to advertise a lecture about El Salvador, pictured a soldier killing a peasant. This misinformation has made us anxious to be sympathetic with the falsely named "popular 
supported guerrillas," and 
opposed to the Duarte govern­
ment which is making a great effort 
to seek and apply the proper solu­
tions to the bloody crisis in El Sal­
vador. 

what more snow looks like. 
The only time I got off campus was with Joe to feast at a local McDonald's. There some teenage girls gawked at my ratty tie and at his collar bar. It's not exactly an 
orgy  on  Daytona  Beach  but  it  
broke up the week.  
Anyway,  about  eight  locked  

doors and a sword-carrying eunuch stood between me and the typewriters at the Obseroer offices so I was completely out of luck. I took out my frustration at the Rockne pool, sat on the steps ofthe Architecture building and began wondering if there was an Olivetti in my future. Writing isso difficult. 
Three things a columnist needs (after the typewriter) are Space, Subject, and Style. The editors have given me these precious column inches, so I suppose I have my space ("Oh wow, man"). So far, I've managed pretty well to digress at every turn so I suppose I can do without a subject. 
What occurs to me, is that I'll need some sort ofwriting style. 
Should I emulate other colum­nists that I have read? Should I be aother Jimmy "Life's tough as bul­lets, so spit it in the eye" Breslin or another Andy "It's little things in life that I find amusing" Rooney? 
I could get political and try to prove I'm an intelligent con­servative like William "Bill" Buck­ley, but we've already seen that isn't possible. I could ignore politics, get domestic and try to write like Erma It's the little things in life that bug me Bombeck. 
I could emulate some ofthe Ob­seroer's own outstanding colum­nists ...like Tony Walton, only he 
actually  believes  the  things  he  
writes.  
I  could  try  to  be  like  Paul  

Kosidowski, but he can actually write. 
How about Fr. Griffin? No, what he writes comes from the heart and I haven't been able to find mine for years. (I lost it when I broke my typewriter). 
I could just make it appear as if I don't care what I put down on paper, likeJohn Macor. 
Whatever kind of columnist become I hope I'll be brief. 



Editorial Board Department Managers
==Ihe=Observer== 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report­ed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion 'of a majority of the Editorial Board. Co.nmentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. tolumn space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, ia encour::~.ged.  Editor-in-Chief---··-·-····-····-----·-.....Michael Monk Managing Editor..........,.....Ryan Ver Berkmoes Executive News Editor.........................Kelli Flint SMC News Editor..................... Margaret Fosmoe Sports Editor ...................................Chris Needles Editorials Editor ............................,Paul McGinn Features Editor ...................................Tari Brown  Business Manager .............................Tony Aiello Controller .............................................Eric Schulz Advertisinp Manager.......................Chris Owen Production Manager..................Maura Murphy Circulation Manager ..........................Ray Inglin Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556  Pboto Editor ...................................Rachel Blount  Founded November 3, 1966  



__stl0 W C f~iiiiiiSiiEiiiiiiijiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiwiiediiineiisdaiiy,Miiariichii24ii,tiii9B2iiiipaiige•7 

Make it your own -sundae night 
E
gads. Here it is again, Sunday night at the right-right side of South Dining hall. Eating those meat· balls reminded me of the time in Daytona when this big hulk kicked sand at my boyfriend, Mike's, face and it landed in my mouth. The bread was crisp and the salad was soft and moist -they always seem to mix those two up. This has been one of the most repulsive meals of my life. Can this evening be salvaged? Hark, hark! I see the ice cream line! 
Endee Cieri 
No, wait. I can't do that -I'll be abu.~ed, especially by Mike. It just isn't fair t(Jr girb up here. Why can't I wah a nice littlefour-scoops-of­t•cmilia· two-ofstrawben-y­u•hipped-cream-nuts-strau•berries­c:ben-ies-chocolate-sauce-and­pineapple sundae and be left in peace to gracefully pig out? 
Oh no, never! 
I swear I should buy a shirt that says, "I skipped the other two meals, ran seven miles, jumped rope for an hour and swam I00 laps at the Rock -so just LEAVE ME ALONE, okay?" Unfortunately, the letters for that would cost me more than the loan Reagan gave me this year -al­though that doesn't say much. 
I've got to get a grip. Let's evaluate this situation: I pay room and board like any ofthe guys up here and this includes ice cream privileges. I am 
an adult, capable of making my own 
decisions, without being affected by 
that adolescent stage called peer 
pressure. 
I am woman, hear me roar! 
I'm also starving to death! 
Okay, let's do it! I'm standing 
up .. .I'm pushing out my chair ... "Look at that chick in sweats. I'll bet she's not going to thesalad bar." 
I'm sitting down .. .I'm not defeated, however. I lost the battle, but the war is far from over. It's time to usc a little strategy. Think, think of the war movies. Young soldier trudges on his belly, through the enemy lines. He can't be seen lest he be shot on sight. Will he be a hero? Carefully, carefully he slides forward on the soggy, shell-parched earth. Just watch out for the mines. Just watch out for ... 
"Endcc, what in the heck are you doing crawling under the table like that? You aren't headed for the SUNDAE line, are you?" 
"No, Mikt~. I was just looking for my contact lens." 
Foiled again. Boy, is this a bum­mer! I can just t<L~tc that icc cream now. I will net•er surrender. 
Strategy 2: The l'm-only·gctting­it·for-my-anon·xic-friend routine. Up I go and here I am. Mmm, vanilla icc cream. Did I say four scoops -I meantsix. Strawberries, whipped cream, yummy, yummy nuts! Oh, wow! Chocolate ... 
"That's a pretty big sundae, Endee. You gonna kill that all offby your­self?" 
"Oh, no, Mike. I have this anorexic friend, see, and she's at my table. And as a true friend, I feel it is my duty ... 
"Endee, you're eating alone." 
"I am?" 
"You are." 
"Oh." 
Substrategy 2.5: Drop your bowl and retreat. Let's think this out. It's 
6: I 5 and Mike will be leaving soon. If I can just-I know! Strategy 3: The Digger strategy. Only 15 minutes left. I'll stall! (Time lapse). 
Ah. 6:30 is finally here and Mike's gone to the 'brar'. Sundae line, here I come! Oh, no. It's those foodservice ladies. I gotta get there before they ...before they ...oh, no! They're putting it away. I'm going to cry. No, I can't. I have one plan left. Strategy 4: ROAD TRIP. just a little jaunt to D-2 and I'll be at Bonnie Doon's in no time! 
"Yes, ma'am, I'll have your 'dozen­super-double-scooper-lotsa-nuts· and-other-stuff' special." 
"That will be 54.50." 
Mmm. Heavenly! This is great! I don't care iftownies see me pork out. (Time lapse). 
I almost feel sick. I can't believe I ate the whole thing. Oh, but it wasso good! That'll show those N.D. chauvinists. I just gotta get this last little spoonful ... 
"Endee?" 
"Oh. Hi, Mike." 
Strategy 5: Exile. When's the next 
plane to Siberia? 
Editor's note: The following story 
is half-tro.e. The names have been changed to protect the half-guilty. 


Trivia Quiz XX 

W 
elcome back from break, everybody. Another quiz to tease and tantalize is on the way. But first, to refresh your memory, the 
Tim Heely 
quiz from two weeks ago listed ten subtitles ofsongs -you had to 
name the rest ofthe title. Here are the answers: 
I. "(I Can't Get No) Satisfaction" 
2. "(We're Gonna) Rock Around the Clock" 
3. 
"I Am the Walrus (No You're Not Said Little Nicola)" 

4. 
''Theyjust Can't Stop It (The Games People Play)" 


5. "(Love Is) Thicker Than Water" 
6. 
"Long Tall Glasses (I Can Dance)" 

7. 
"Rhiannon (Will You Ever Win)" 


8. "My Girl (Gone, Gone, 'Gone)" 
9. "(Hey, Won't You Play)Anoth· er Somebody I)one Somebody Wrong Song" 


~*****************~*­
: SHOWYOlJR ~ TALENTS!! 
~ ·······•·•········•·•···•··•······••·••·········•· 
: write features for 
1C Ihe Obsem:r : Call Tariat 239-5303-13-23 

-~ ~ 
~ 
~ 
*~ 

******************** 
10. "Doo Doo Doo Ooo Doo (Heartbreaker)" 
You did not have to name the ar· tists, only the main pieceofthe song 
title, but I will note that number 8 is 
the recent hit by Chilliwack, not the classic Temptations song. That "My Girl" stood alone. All the others are exactly what you might think they 
are. 
For this quiz I am going to turn the clock back ten years to I972. The hits ofthat year are probably not fresh in your mind, but somewhere in the catacombs ofyour past you may remember them. Well, IT am going to refresh your memory today. These were, in order, the top ten records on the Billboard Hot 100 on March 25, 1972 -by artist. Name the hit each had at the time. 
I. America 
2. 
Neil Young 

3. 
Robertjohn 

4. 
Donny Osmond 

5. 
Paul Simon 

6. 
Nilsson 

7. 
Cher 

8. 
The Chakachas 

9. 
Bread JO.joe Tex 



Presidents go to camp to write history 
'('m not at all satisfied with history the way it's beingwritten. We've .lau taken history courses in school and most ofus were skepticalof some ofthe information given to us as historical fact. 
There's a lot more history piling up on us every day but we ought to be gaining on it because, with pictures and sound recording, it's easier to preserve original documents than it was I00or 1,000 years ago. Everyone 500 years from now ought to know everything about us. They won't, though, because too many of the things being saved as historywon't present an accurate picture ofwhat was going on in 1982. 
I propose we establish a National Academy ofHistory. It would be this group's job to pass on to the future exactly what happened and what we were like in our years here on earth. I even have some specific suggestions for how the National Academy ofHistory (NAH) would go about the job. 
Forexample,itwouldinsist 





flndy Rooney
that President Reagan, Carter, Ford and Nixon get together for a long weekend at Camp David, with no one else around, and let their hair down. (In Gerald Ford's case, I'm speaking figuratively about hair.) They'd promise that nothing they said would be released for 50 years. 
The three ex-presidents and Reagan would begiven anything they wanted to eat ordrink but they'd also be given an occasional shot of sodium pentothal, the drug that makes people blab the truth. 
There arc, currently living, seven wives ofpresidents: Bess,Jackie, lady Bird, Pat, Betty, Rosalyn and Nancy. These women have a view ofhistory that is different and more accurate in many specific details than any historian will ever get. The girls ought to get together while the boys are at Camp David. Ifthey'd relax, they'd probably like each other. Ifthey'd talk, we'd have some real history. 
This newly established NAH of mine would organize all kinds of groups to get at and preserve the details ofhistory that are being lost now. It wouldn't be simply the historyofpower.lt would be the his­tory of Us. 
We study the day before yesterday looking for clues about how to behave so we'll be happier tomorrow. That's what history is for and we haven't been keeping it accurately enough. There are dozens of reasons why history doesn't ring true to us. 
Too many historians aren't just reporters looking for facts; they're theoreticians. They have some idea about the grand sweepofhistory and they write their books with too few facts and too many theories. 
Historians like to promote the idea that there's a rhythm to history and that events follow a pattern. They're often more interested in the pattern they think they see than the facts. They can't stand the thought that there might not be a pattern and that a lot ofimportant things happened in history, not by the design ofa king, a president or a dictator. But because ofsome dumb little unrecorded incident or accident that started things going one way instead ofanother. 
It's difficult to make people from one century intelligible to the people ofanother, and ifhistorians can't find out what's going on right now in our own country, how can we expect the historians of 10, 50 or 100 years from now to know anything at all that's true about us? 
If Reagan, Carter, Ford and Nixon get together, I'd sure love to submit a couple ofquestions. 
Copyriglu 1982 by The Chicago Tribune 
..---------~·------------------....• 

smer 
------·--~---~-----------­



Sports Brie s 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 

The Fellowship ofChristian Athletes will 
hold a meeting tonight in the Howard Hall social space at 9 p.m. All are invited. -The Observer 
The ND / SMC Sailing Club is opening its spring 
season by hosting the annual Freshman Icebreaker Regatta this weekend, March 25-27. Any first-year sailors who would like to race in this regatta should contact ].B. at 8228. Also there will be an or­ganizational meeting tonight at 6:30p.m. in the Howard Hall social space -all sailors interested in competing in the regatta must at­tend. Anyone interested in joining the Sailing Club is encouraged to attend. -The Observer 
The NVA office is holding meetings for the captains of Men's Softball, today at the ACC auditorium, and Women's Softball, today at the Interhall Office. Both of the meetings start at 4:30p.m. 
-The Observer 
Notre Dame's Men's Novice Crew Team 
will hold their first practice today at 5 p.m. All novice crew members should eat dinner at 4:30p.m. in the North Dining Hall, C-Line, and meet at the Stepan Guard House at 5 p.m. Ifthere are any questions, call Mike Hawboldt at 8444 or Ed Dailey at 2121.-The Observer 
Innertube Water Polo wm hold a mandatory cap­
tain's meeting tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theater. ­
The Observer 
Notre Dame baseball team went 2-6 during its 
Spring Break trip to Oklahoma. Oral Roberts University defeated the Irish three times, by 5-2, 2-1, and 13-0 scores. Missouri Southern. twice edged Notre Dame by one run, 4-3 and 9-8. Oklahoma clob­bered Notre Dame, 15-3. The highlight of the trip was a 19-7 drub­bing ofOklahoma City. The other Irish victory came at the hands of North Dakota State, by a 7-4 score. -The Observer 
Women's Bookstore Basketball will begin 
soon. Registration will be held tomorrow from 7-8:30 p.m. in the 
LaFortune lobby. Teams should pay the $1 entry fee at this time. ­
The Observer 
Wednesday, March 24, 1982 -page 8 
• ..Fernando 
continuedfrom page 12 
Ruth, people didn't scare him. Fer­nando kind ofliked them. Ratings rose, sponsors got into the act. So, ofcourse, did agents. 
It all came to a shuttering stop. They put the guitars away, and the fiesta was over when it was contract time. But Fernando was coming to the table with no cards and a few chips. He was sitting there staring in­to a hand behind a stack ofchips and a player with a .45 in his belt and a strap ofcartridges across his chest. 
It had all come too soon to Fer­nando. He had none of the defenses so painstakingly won by the un­signed ballplayers over the last-

In this year's NHLplayoff format, the top four teams in each division make the playoffs, regardless of overall league standing. 
PRINCE OF WALES CONFERENCE 
Adams Division 
W 'L T GF GA Pis. 
x-Montreal 43 14 17 339 205 103 
Boston 40 24 10 291 255 90 
Buffalo 36 23 15 277 240 87 
Quebec 31 28 15 328 320 77 
Hartford 21 36 16 245 317 58 
Patrick Dlvlalon 
x-NY Islanders 50 15 9 359 229 109 
N.Y Rangers 36 24 13 285 278 85 Philadelphia 36 29 9 302 294 81 Pittsburgh 28 35 11 281 311 67 Washington 23 40 11 293 316 57 
CLARENCE CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
Smythe Dvlslon 
w L T GF GA Pta 
x-Edmonton 44 17 14 389 281 102 
Calgary 27 31 17 311 323 71 
Vancouver· 25 33 16 256 272 66 
Los Angeles 23 35 15 286 327 61 
Colorado 17 46 ,, 220 326 45 
Norris Division 
Mtnnesota 33 21 20 318 265 66 
Winnipeg 31 19 13 298 304 75 
St. LOUIS 29 38 7 286 326 65 
Chicago 27 36 11 306 337 65 
Toronto 19 39 16 281 351 54 
Detro1t 18 44 12 250 330 46 

decade. He was not yet eligible for free agentry, he was not even eligible for arbitration. He had two choices Mexico or the big leagues. 
He had one ace -public support. The public loved Fernando, didn't they?· The Dodgers would be betray­ing every Latino fon on the con­tinent ifthey didn't sighn him, right? 
Well, as recently as two years ago, that might have been so. After all, the public watched with contented tolerance as slightly above-average ballplayers signed contracts for $23 million for I 0 years, and as teams like the Dodgers paid millions for 
failed ·pitchers they had to turn loose. 
x-clinched first place 1n division Yesterday's Results N.Y. Islanders 6, Washington 1 Today's Games 
Quebec at Hartford 
N Y. Rangers at Pittsburgh 
St. Louis at Toronto 
DetrOit at Ch1cago 
Los Angeles al Winmpeg 
Colorado at Vancouver 

:IBASKETBALL 
NBA 
Eaatarn Conference 
Atlantic Division 
w L Pet. GB Boston 53 15 .779 Philadelphia 47 19 .712 5 New Jersey 34 34 .500 19 Washington 33 34 .493 19.5 New York 30 39 .435 23.5 
Cantral Dlvlalon Milwaukee 47 21 .691 
But, times were different, then. The assembly plants were open, 
mortages were available. Even the support of the barrios was not forthcoming this time. The media 
fell strangely silent, those tradition­ally anti-owner and those tradition­ally pro-owner uneasy about this one. Fernando will doubtless sign. 
But, even if it's for half of what he asks, in a year when Ford loses a bil­lion dollars, the man thinks he 
should get on his knees and thank Our Lady of Guadalupe he's got a job. (c) 1982,LosAngeles Times 
Atlanta 33 34 .493 13.5 
Washington at Indiana 

Detroit 32 36 .471 15 
Atlanta at Kansas City 

lndtana 31 37 .456 16 
San AntoniO at Denver

Chicago 28 40 .412 19 
Dallas at PhoeniX

Cleveland 15 52 .224 31.5 
Milwaukee at Seattle 
Western Conference MldwalltDivision 
w L SanAnton1o 42 26 Denver 37 30 Houston 37 32 KansasCrty 24 44 Dallas 23 45 Utah 19 50 
Pacific Division 
Los Angeles 47 22 Seattle 44 23 Phoemx 36 31 Golden State 37 31 Portland 35 32 San D1ego 16 53 
Yesterday's ReauHa 
New York 120, Cleveland 97 Atlanta 107. Washington 87 San Antonio 106, San Diego 96 Boston 1 10, Chicago 1 03 Houston 1 17, Utah 1 15 Dallas 1 1 8, Los Angeles 1 1 6 Milwaukee 109, Portland 104 Golden State 95, Phoemx 91 
TOday's Gamq Cleveland at Boston New Jersey at Philadelphia 

Pet. 
.616 .552 .536 .353 .338 .275 
.681 .657 .537 .544 .522 .232 
GB 
4.5 5.5 18 19 
23.5 
2 10 
9.5,, 
31 
The Observer will accept classtfieds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However. classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p_m. the bustness day prior to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
etther in person or through the mail. 


Classifieds 
ABIOGENESIS DANCE COLLECTIVE FOUND IN LOCAL 7·11, ONE SMALL LOST: GOLD CELTIC (IRISH) CROSS 3-4 bedroom home, furnished, 3 blocks 
presents: BLUE TOWEL, PLEASE CLAIM (ANDAT SMC. Piaaaa call x4602 (SMC). Lit. 
off campus. This summer and/or faiL AN INFORMAL STUDIO CONCERT THIS TIME PLEASE WEAR PANTS.) 

Graduate students preferred. Call Mrhas not bean the aama wHhout it.

NOTICES 
Thursday, March 25 7:30p.m. 

Noe, 287-9636, days. 
TICKETS
Reward. 

Holy Cross Hall (NO) Free Admissions 
Who IS the Winner ot the GEL TIC BABE of FURNISHED 4 BEDROOM HOUSE, 925 lha YEAR award? . ANITA RAMKER: Whoa-found my Callie Croaa Ill N. FRANCIS. CLOSE TO NO. I won't even answer that one. 1don't want THE WOMAN WITH THE HEAVENLY SMC and called m-plaaaa call again. AVAILABLE FOR SEPT. CALL AFTER 6 Need extra tickets for graduation. Call Dear Sandy, smile, love an insh barish­to get whaled on! 
VOICE The croaa has gralll aantlmantal vaiU8 232-0535 Mark at3008. nikov. SUNDAY, MARCH 28, AT 3 P.M. for me. Eileen x4602. R-ard. to whom it may concern ­MOREAU HALL'S LITTLE THEATRE, DESPERTELY NEED 6 TICKETS FOR I have g•ven up on tha east rt's just too 
... An Tostal is coming soon.. be in car­
SAINT MARY'S Lost one pa1r of orange Lange ski boots at THE 1982 GRADUATION CEREMONY­constantly wired for my laid back tastes. 
toons. Mail 1 )name, 2)address, 3)photo 
Notre Dame Circle on March 12 in the af­PLEASE CALL JOHN AT 7695 thank goodness rt's only 6 weeks or so 111 
via FREE campus mail to: 
ternoon. If found please contact Phil at i'm out of the boredom kingdom. nothing 
WANTED 

Stuff Simon
TYPING SERVICE. 684-4125. 3779. Thanks. personal to my friends; i'll be bored of 
c/o Jeb Cashin 
home in the fall so you can laugh then ATIENTION SMC STUDENTS!! Applica­LOST :A Brown and Be1ge Jacket wrth 
The Observer 
PERSONALS BoxQ 
tiOns are now available at the LeMans Black and While stnpes across tha TYPING 28 years as a secretary-­Off-Campus Mary-
Student Activities Otlice for Student chest. Lost at the ACC on the Tuesday excellent typist, retired. $1 .00/page call Heard you sprinted the entire parade Government Comm1Sstoners. Pick one before break.lt was removed from tha Phyllis 259-2501. route just for a shot of yourself with 
ATIENTION PE WOMEN Ill Vote for the 
up, fill it out and return it by Friday, March men's restroom across from the hockey ······························································ Moose! 
team that combines experience wrth en­
26th. Any questions?? Call. Murph rink between 12:20 and 1 :20p.m. Please MY GIRLFRIEND needs a nde to NO this Thank goodness for spring ... time for thusiasm!!! 
x4863, Ela1ne x5 1 04 or Beth x4448. return because it was specially repacked weekend from U of I (Champaign). If you small, cute girls in smaller and cuter Walsh Hall is pleased to announce that 
Vote CAROL CAMP---PRESIDENT 
with a matenal Jhat was not allergic to me know someone driving up, please call shorts (pupplea~. Hopefully, some might Jim Bader 
RALONDA MASON---VP 
Summer Jobs National Park Co's. 21 but may be allerg1c to othars. REWARD. Mike at4540. show up soon (I know they're rare but Frank White and there's no harm in hoping) 
on FRIDAY, MARCH 261111
Parks, 5000 Opemngs. Complete in­CaiiTOMal 1465. CraiQHale 
c~~ ·~~~·;;~ ~J~r~;;p.;~~~~;~?ii. ~.·~all are the new Social and J-Board CommiS­
formation $5.00. Park Report. Mission Mtn. Co., 651 2nd Ave. W.N., Kalispell, Now that the snow is gone, hopefully 284-5127. Do you have your copy of the Molarity Sioners. (And to think we knew tham whan 
To all you BSB lane: Mackin High Ia 
MT. 59901. someone will find my GOLD CHAIN. ij books yet? No? Well than hurry -they were only basketball coaches!) 
going to win. Odda: 99 to 1
CAMP COUNSELORS/PROGRAM Jumper Press is still marketing a limited Thanxl DIRECTORSwanted for pnvate Michigan supply of the two smash hits by P.J. 
you do please call Mark at3895. Reward. 

Haw you •-becomtl qU8aay 111 the 
"Beaux Arts goes to the Louvre" Saturday 
alght of aquml plcturea? Do you want boys/girls summer camps: swimming, everybody's favorite cartoonist, Michael Doesn't il ever stop ra1ning 1n Coos Bay, 
to maka money and be published? Do LOST ARED PULL-OVER WHILE JOG­canoe1ng, sa1ling, skiing, sports, riflery, Molinelli, in erther Don't Make a Right 27 .. .featuring thaTaran ttulas! Don't know Oregon?what the Louvre IS all about? Find out in
GING AROUND ST. JOE'S LAKE THE archery, tenn1s, golf, crafts, campir.g, or last year's chart-topper, now in its gymnastiCS, calligraphy, dramatics, fourth edition, On the Road to Sellingyou llka to work wllh fun people? Do the Architecture Library -books on it are 

you haw a 35mm camera and can you MORNING OF MARCH 23. IT WAS ~·s rumored that Mike Sm1th wntes ob­
on the reserve. See you Saturday. 
Work In a black and whHa darkroom? HUNG ON A TREE BRANCH. PLEASE cheerleading, gUitar. Laurence Seeger, Out noxious personnals to h1s roommates! Then YOU should apply to be an OB­
CALL RON AT 6261 (200 GRACE). 1765 Maple, Northfield, JL 60093. Send Hey-don't delay-act today! ••....•.••...•:lo •.••. details. 
The Beaux Arts Ball (for those of you un­
THANK-YOU. Italian Scholar SERVER PHOTOGRAPHER! Good 
ANITA!!! familiar w1th the affair) is the semesterly
darkroom akllla a mull!; journalism ax­That's what I call a liberal arts education! 
costume ball put on by the students of the 
Attention 4/C MIDN: I need LANT 1 for COME AND HEAR A GIRL NAMED FIGARO! Architecture Department opened to theperianca helpful but not nece...ry. 
summer crUISe-trade for LANT 2 and ANITARAMKER quallllcllllona along wHh aoma money, beer, etc. Name your price. Call SUNDAY, MARCH 28, IN SAINT OUandYVETIE 
Bring a raauma atllllngexpartenca and entire campus ol Notre Dame If you en­
FOR RENT 

JOy ...crazy costumes, d1mented danc1ng
aamplea of your work to the Obaarv.r Tex atl478. MARYS UTILE THEATRE, MOREAU We could almost accept your conversion HALL 
and general kook1ness make an ap­
otnc. on the third floor of La Fortune 
to Mormomsm d rt wasn't for the purple
pearance at the longest runn1ng party
by March31. socks! BAAU! 
tradition. See an arkie m its naturalStudent hous1ng--clean. safe. $100/mo. 
habitat. The theme for th1s semester IS
291-1405. LYONS HALL FOODSALES OFFERS

Tha N.D.-SMC theater presents Mamet's DO IT IN A TOWELIII
FOR SALE 

··eeaux Arts goes to the Louvre.·· so come 
THE BEST IN Ffi£SH, THICK CRUST as an yth1ng from a museum (even 1f 1ts 1n"AMERICAN BUFFALOE" 
"Tha brilliant-sometimes funny, mostly Two furnished 5 bedroom houses near 
PIZZA DELIVERED ANYWHERE ON Don and Debbie, 
the Chicago Art Institute or the Toledo 
brutal play by Amenca's most promising NO. Available next school year and sum­SOUTH QUAD FOR A NOMINAL Whan th1ngs don't go your way
Tuxedo Exhib1t1on). ThiS Saturday. 
mer. 234-2626. USED BOOK SHOP. HOURS WED , DELIVERY CHARGE ON THURSDAY

young playwright." And you feel a need to pray 
.. . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . 
SAT SUN. 9-7. CASPERSON 1303 NIGHTS BETWEEN 9:30 TO 11. ALSO:

Antoyne Broyard, NY Times I hope thare·s someone 1here 
Happy B1rthdayM1ml"Lamna" Hays ­
Dates: March 26 and 27, 8:p.m. Washing­82-83 school yr. 4 bdrm.,close to BUCHANAN RD.. NILES. EVERY WEDNESDAY NIGHT IS Who"s concerned enough to care
Have a great day, BEWARE of Corby'ston Hall To offer a cheertul thought 
campus,furn.,excel.cond.,call 287-5361 GUEST CELEBRITY NIGHT WITH after6p.m. YOU DESERVE THE BEST Jafra Con­WELL-KNOWN CAMPU5-FIGURES 

tomght We really, really luff you! And a very halpful walk 
2SBuddles
su~ant: Penny Penrod 291-8310 M-F WORKING THE COUNTER I P.S.:Just1n says, 'HB" sucker! 
TYPING SERVICE. 684-4125. Thanks for being sweet 
AvaiUmmed., 4 bdrm.,close to 

Jeff campus,excel.cond., call 287-5361 after 1974 TRIUMPH TR6 YELLOW,BRN LAST YEAR'S UMOC, MIKE 6p.m. INT,EXCELLENT COND, $3900 277· "GORGAR" GURDAK, IS BACK AND Belated HAPPY BIRTHDAY Wishes tci 5674 BTWN 5-7PM UGLIER THAN EVER TO DEFEND HIS Tom '0. P. Bertscha on his 21st Con­MAY THE TOWELING INFERNO NOT
\.LOST/FOUND 
BE YOUR OWN BOSS Comfortable 5 TITLE. GOLDFISH AND DOMERS WITH grats Berch. Tha Six. BURN ITSELF OUT BEFORE HELP bedroom, completely furnishad house for BUY AND SELL YOUR BOOKS AT PAN­WEAK STOMACHS-BEWAREIIII ARRIVES 5 or 6. '::lose to campus. PH 288-3942. DORA'S. 937 SOUTH BEND AVENUE OU811tlon: WHO IS UGLIER THAN MIKE JOIN AM-64 EVERY NIGHT THIS WEEK 
REWARD: LOST GOLD NECKLACE 233-2342. Section sales this week only. "GORGAR" GURDAK ? FOR FREE ALBUM GIVE-A-WAYS 
March for Archbishop Romero WITH CROSS AT CAMPUS VIEW Large,one bedroom, remodeled, parking Economics and Literature 50 percent off An-r: NOBODY ALIVEIIIIII FOLLOWING THE ALBUM HOUR AT 
Thursday March 25 POOL SENTIMENTAL VALUE Please $185 and $6 electnc, NW, near bus and used titles. We now carry THE MILITANT MIKE "GORGAR" GURDAK FOR 11:00 P.M. STAY TUNED TO NOTRE 
Meet at Sacred Heart Church at 4:30 call283-6954 stores. No lease. $150 deposrt. 289-1687 UMOCIIIJIIIIIII DAME'S BEST ROCK--WSND, AM-64111 

.. 

The Observer -Sports Wednesday, March 24, 1982 -page 9 

lliyle sets school record in F1orida decathalon 
By EARLRIX 
Sfmrts lf'rlter 
The Irish Jailed to get to the tlnals of any event at tho: !'JCAA champion­ships in Detroit, hut Paul Doyle erased some of the disappointment la.~t weekend when he handily won the decathalon and placed third in the pole vault at the Domino Pizza Relay~ in Florida. 
Doyle accumulated 7,774 points in the ten-event decathalon. In doin~ so he exceeded his previous personal best, heat Don Esler's 19 32 lri1>h record by more than 1,000 points, a.nd easily qualified for the NCAA outdoor national champion­ships. 
Doyle: bested a tlcld of 24 decat­haletes that included Frank Harrison a.nd Greg Bastine, among others. Head Coach Joe Piane called it a "superb performance" and said that the 7,774 point total put Doyle in the "top ten if not in the top five in the country at this point." 
The senior tri-captain covered the 100 meters in I0.8 seconds, long­jumped 23-4, put the shot 44 feet, high-jumped 6-l, and ran the 400 meters in 49.6 on tht· first day ofthe two-day event. On the second day he ran the I l 0-meter high hurdles in l S.9, threw the discus 142 feet, pole vaulted 15-8, tO~sed the javelin 197 
teet, and ra.n the  I SOO meters  in  
4:39.  
Still  not  llnishcd,  Doyle  

proceeded to take third in the pole 
TRAIN TO BE A ME'ffiER Cl" AN OJI'srAND:m:; TEAM 
The U.s. AntJY Reserve in the South Bendarea needs men tobecome 
ilitary Police the Army 
will provide the traimngand assign vou to a unit near home. 
ou will earn at least 
$1000 a year for week 
end drills and annual 
training. You might . 
also qualifyfor a $2000 cash oonus or up 
to $4000 for rollege.
For moreinformation, 
call your AnnyReserve 
ecruit~r 234-4187 
North Carolina coach 

Smithhopes to endlongdryspell 
By The Associated Press 
Pardon North Carolina basketball 
Coach Dean Smith if he's starting to 
get the Minnesota Vikings 
syndrome. 
Like the Vikings, who have gone 
to four Super Bowls and lost every 
one, Smith's Tar Heels have been to 
the NCAA Final Four six times and 
have yet to win the national cham­
pionship. just la.st year they got to 
the la.st game before losing to In­
diana 63-50. 
Will seven be a lucky number for Smith, whose team goes to New Or­leans with a 30-2 record and the No.I ranking? His players certainly hope so. 
"1 think he's the greatest coach in college basketball, despite not having won the national champion­ship," said james Worthy, who scored 14 points in helping the Tar Heels win the Eastern Regional final, 70-60 over Villanova. 
"Everybody says Coach Smith is a great coach," said Tar Heel Jimmy Black. "But then they say he chokes in the Final Four. 1 know he's tired of hearing it and I know I'm tired of hearing it. And we're going to change it." 
Center Sam Perkins said he'd like to win it all "just so people would stop asking that question." 
Smith, whose team will fuce darkhorsc Houston in the semifinals 
vault the following day with an Irish outdoor record vault of 16-6. Doyle will get a chance to improve on his decathalon reord twice more this year, at the Drake relays and again at the NCAA's. In the meantime, be­tween Piane says that he will keep Doyle busy competing in the vault, long jump, high-hurdles, and weight events. 

Applications for ASSISTANT TREASURER STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
available in Treasurer's Office 2nd floor LaFortune 
Must presently be a Sophomore Accounting major 
Applications Due Friday, Apri12 4:00PM 
~ CAMPUSMINISTRY ~II LECTURE SERIES CC!II)pus BEGINS TONIGHT
m1n1Stry . 

THE PACIFIST POSITION 
by Prof. John Yoder 
Wednesday, March 24, 7-8:30 PM, Hayes-Healy 

Saturday, takes a more philosophical approach. 
"I'll settle for this every year," he said of making the Final Four. "I feel like we deserve to be there." 
If North Carolina gets by ~· :dwest Region winner Houston, iS ex­pected, the going will get much tougher in the championslup game next Monday night, when · he op­ponent will be the winner of Satur­day's other semifinal !•:·tween Louisville and Georgetown 
Louisville, with four star• off its 1980 NCAA championship n, ha.' won 11 of its la.st 12 game~ ..nclud-. ing a 75-68 victory over Alabama-Birmingham in the Mideast tlnal. 
The 20th-ranked Cardinals were only 12-8 at one point in the season, when Coach Denny Crum was ex­perimenting with a lot of players. But there was method in his action as he built up the depth of his team to championship levels. 
"We were developing our bench while playing one of the toughest schedules in the country," he said. "We decided we had to get ex­perience from our bench. Our seniors were a.sked to sacrifice so the younger players could get that experience. 
"Many seniors might resent that, 
.,.

but our players are for the team," said Crum. "This is a team and has to win that way without an All­American." 
The Cardinals are now 23-9, and their depth wa.s apparent la.st Satur­day, when reserve center Charles )ones came offthe bench to score 19 points, including seven free throws in the last 2:31. 
Sixth-ranked Georgetown goes to the four-way showdown after demolishing No.4 Oregon State 69­54 to win the"West Regional. The Hoyas, 29-6, broke the NCAA tour­ney record for shooting accuracy with an incredible 76.3 percent from the floor. 
**·•·•*****1tt*********'$
t The Observer has an ~ ~ opening for a : .~ 
.. ~ 
~ Today Page Editor ~ 
~ ~ 
t ·Very flexible hours t ~ ·Goodpay • 
~ ~
! For more info call Ryan at 239-7471 «
1t*********--1i******'lf** 
~-------------------~---------.
(61Jr lUtiglJt& Dftlyt <!Iastlt I 

. I 
'._ For the Total Look on a Stvled 1 
Hair Cut,Shampoo, Blow DryI 
& Condition 1 
CAm. ...M.:=;::~DI Reg. $15.00 ! 
TUES.,WED.I:Jt.5:ll Now $1 0 00 1
THURS.. fltl.l:.l8-l:lOeSAT.l.:»&ll • I 
272-0JJ2•277-l69t complete • 
we ere only minute• from cempua (wllh coupon) I 
~-----------------------------~ 
. I

r-------------------------~ 
I HolyCrossFathers I
I I Vocation Counseling II 
I H I 
II I
I ow do I know I if I have a vocation to the priesthood? I 
I , .., I I What is the academic I I and formation program for becoming a priest? I 
II II 
Wat scholarships and 1 financial aid are available for seminary training? I 
I Wat are the variou~ I
I apostolic ministries of the Holy Cross priests? ~ .. 
I H I
I ow do I pray 1 I if rm thinking of a vocation to the priesthood I I and I'm not sure? I I I I II I 
1 r01 d pt•r-,ondl l onhllenlldl .niN\ !t''ol. .,.rth 110 ohllqdtron 11 plt"d'tt' -...rrlt• or (dlllht• \O<dlron dr•t'< tor 
I Ro·\ ~,.,1,,. Lo·"''"'' • '' 1I 
B0\~41
I Notrt.• Ddnw lnl1 465~ I 
I I 
I 
For dpporntm•.nl Cdll bt-1-...t<t·n 8 .10 "rn 
I 

dlld 4 30 p m 
I phone: II 219239-6385 I 
I . I 




L-------------------------A 


.. 
-------·------------­


The Observer -Sports 
Thingsjust aren't tbe way they used to be in LA. Last fall, Fernando Valenzuela and the Dodgers were a per­fect match. He and Dodger Manager Tommy Lasorda are shown above celebrating the World Champion­ship andFernando's Cy Young award. But Valenzuela and the Dodgers are no longer smiling at each other. 
ALL SMC S!UDIR!S IR!ERES!ED IB JOIRIRG !HE OBSBRVER· 
COD !0!HIIM:III!IIIG 
Monday, March 16 6Jm in SMO Observer office (loca,ed in BegiDa Sou'h Basemen') QuesUou? Oallllar e' 4670 
····················~·········· 
~: JUNIORS! 
• 
: Last chanceto sign upfor 
•
•
: Senior Portraits time sittings •
• 
: March 23-26 
•
•
• 2ndfloor LaFortune • 
: 9:30am-5 :OOexcept 1-2pm
•
•
• 
: 239-5183
•
• 
• 

• 
Clcedt eat flea 


OAKROOM CAFE 
ill Sulk 'Oilliq Holt• Pq Cole 

For a late nite snack 
Nightly Specials Com lete with a new 

jukebox 

open Mon.-Thurs 9-·12 am 
am _ _..,.........,....__

Fri.-Sat. 9-l 
Fenando is now demanding more money than the Dodgers are willing to payjim Murray bas his own theory about this matter. See his column on page 12, as well as the article about Valenzuela's return to spring training on this page. (AP photo) 
: 
• 
:
•
•
: 
•
• 
: 
•
•
•
•
• 
: 
•
•
• 
: 

VITA-Volunteer Income Tax Assistance­can help you complete your tax return. Call your local IRS office lor details. 
A pubhc service message from 
thll Internal Revenue Servtce 


One week cruises cost $250-$395. Group Rates. Free Brochure. Directory of Programs-$3.so. Write: SUMMER SAIL, ASTA, Fort Adams, Newport, R.I. 02840. Phone: 401-846-1775. 



i---------------------------------------~

i \\1\sliiNGTON INTERNslin i 
I I I I I I I I I I I 
1
1
I I 1 1 


of the Congressional Intern Advisory Council. I 
• Discussion Groups to share information and I opinions with fellow student participants from 
I 
around the country. Filing deadline for Semester I: April 9. 
I 
For applications and information: 1 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I I
~--~BosTON UNiVERsiTy I 
I 
I
Washington Legislative Internship Program 
I 
· College of Liberal Arts-Room 302 
I
725 Commonwealth Avenue,Boston, MA 02215 
I 
617/353-2408 
I 
I 
I 
......_,._••i._•••-.~.-.•i•i•••·•••lli•r.wi~:-. ..~
...................1 
~ I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I Juniors and Seniors with a 3.0 average: in-I terested in Congress? Earn 16 credits on Capitol I Hill. I 
•Unique Internships based on your interests. 
I Work with members of Congress in their offices 1 and on their committees. 1 
•Seminars with leading government experts, 1 focusing on current policy issues. I 
•Washington Faculty headed by the chairman I 
Wednesday, March 24, 1982 -page 10 
Valenzuela reports to Florida Dodger camp 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Fernando Valenzuela, the 21-year old Mexican-born left-bander who won the National League's Cy Young Award last season, has ended the holdout he staged against the Los Angeles Dodgers. 
The pitcher announced yesterday that he will report today to the Dodgers' spring training camp in Vera Beach, Fla. But Valenzuela says he won't sign a contract. He even turned down a last-minute offer of more money through an incentive clause. 
"Yes, we made them a new offer," Dodger owner Peter O'Malley told reporters at a Vero Beach, Fla. press 
· conference. "Why they turned it down, I don't know. The last offer was significant. It had substantial in· centive clauses. "We made several calls. We made every attempt possible to resolve the matter;" O'Malley said. "I'm as puzzled today as I was a week ago, a month ago, two weeks ago. There is no bitterness or bad feelings on our part." Valenzuela's attorney, however, said that the offer was nothing big. Dick Moss described it as "a little bone, a couple of little performance clauses." The club, however, says it has not closed the door to the possibility of later raising Valenzuela's salary. Even without his signature on a contract, Valenzuela will collect the reported S350,000 offered by the Dodgers compared with his S42,500 salary of last year when he won the National League's Cy Young Award as its best pitcher and the Rookie of the Year Award. He was the first player to win both in the same year. 
SEA ADVENTURE 
Sail in a Tall Ship! See the Tall Ships Race! 
"I have decided to report to the Los Angeles Dodgers in Vero Beach," Valenzuela said through an interpreter. "I will be doing so be­cause ofwhat I believe to be my duty to my family, to my teammates, to my friends and to myself. I am not reporting to sign a contract." 
Valenzuela added that he did not believe his teammates would criticize him for the holdout. But he came under severe criticism from the Mexican-Americans in Los An· geles for his demands of S 1 million and later ,S850,000 for the season. 
"My representatives and I have never had any real negotiations with the Dodgers," Valenzuela's prepared statement said. "There have been meetings but the only negotiations have come from us." 
The Dodgers have maintained that no second-year player has earned more than the figure they of­fered Valenzuela. · 
St.Mary's forms FinanceOub 

Saint Mary's has established a Finance Club. The officers are: Pres. Karen McGuckin; V.P. Mary Beth Oxenreiter; Treasurer Sue Boos; Secretary Paula Mazeski and Public Relations Liz Ladner. There will be a meeting tonight (Wed) at 6 p.m. in room 233 Madeleva. All are welcome regardless ofmajor. 


.. 
Ihe~==================================== 



~~4()l~~===========================~=Ted=n=e=s=d=ay='=M=~==ch==2=4=,=19=8=2===p=a=g=e=l=;l 

Michael Molinelli 
IT~ AL~Y.S 50 NICE:" I/JTERVI£"/,JIN4 5£.tVIDR5 
HER£ AI NOffl£lAo\r-1E, 
-nJE.y'R/0' ALL 15RI~HT," 
GLf:.AN A,NP RBP£CTFVL. 
/,Jf..'Rf: V£RY PL£ASEP 
H£EI1Nq P£OPL£ LIKE YOU 



Garry Trudeau 

Jeb Cashin





Campus 
•2 
· 5 p.m. -Program, NO Tax Assistanct:, LaFonune Student Center 

•2:20, 
4:30 p.m. -Films, "The Fall of China", "Red China", 349 Madeleva Hall, Sponsored by Proft:ssor C. Pullapilly 

•4 
p.m. -Colloquium, "The Architectural St:t· ting of Early Christian Psalmody", James McKin· non, SUNY, Buffalo, 123 Nieuwland Science Hall, Sponsored by Music Depanment 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Polish Theatre and Drama, A 20th Century Vit:w," Visiting Proft:ssor Kazimit:rz Braun, Memorial Library Lounge, Sponsored by COTH Dept. 

•4:30 
p.m. -Seminar, "Critiqut:'', Professor War­ren Samuels, 122 Hayes Ht:aly, Sponsored by Economics Departmt:nt 

•4:30 
p.m. -Seminar, 'Adventures in the Syn­thesis of Compounds Which lncorporatt:d Main Group and Transition Metals", Professor Beachley, SUNY at Buffalo, 123 Nieuwland, Sponsort:d by Chemistry Department 

•6:30 
p.m. -Meeting, Tau Beta Pi, New Initiates, 303 Cushing Hall • 

•7 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Pacifist Position", John Yoder, Hayes Healy Auditorium, Sponsored by Office ofCampus Ministry 

•7 
p.m. -Meeting, Summer Abroad Program, London, Sponsored by 348 Madeleva Hall 

•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "American Women's Lives and Work", Professor Penny Gill, Little Theatre, Moreau Hall, Sponsored by Christian Justice Lecture Series 

•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Acid Rain", Dr. Erhard M. Winkler, library Auditorium, Sponsored by Stu­dent Council ofCollege ofScience 

•8 
p.m. -Meeting, Summer Abroad Program, Rome, 348 Madeleva Hall 

•9 
p.m. -Meeting, Fellowship of Christian Ath· letes, Howard Hall Social Space, All are invited 

•9 
p.m. -An Tostal Smoker, Pasquerilla West Lounge, all An Tostal members invitt:d 


T.V. Tonight 
Wednesday, March 24 
7:00p.m.  16  MASH  
22  CBS News  
28  joker's Wild  
34  The MacNeiVI..ehrer Report  
7:30p.m.  16  The Muppet Show  
22  Family Feud  
28  Tic Tac Dough  
34  Straight Talk  
8:00p.m.  16  Real People  
22  Herbie, The Love Bug  
28  A Kilo ofPrevention  
34  Closing Ranks  
9:00p.m.  ~2  WKRP in Cincinnati  
28  The Fall Guy  
34  American Playhouse  
9:30p.m.  16  FactsofUfe  
22  Baker's Dozen  
10:00p.m.  16  Quincy  
22  Shannon  
28  Dynasty  
ll:OOp.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
34  The Dick Cavell Show  
11:30p.m.  16  The Tonight Show  
22  CBS Movie: "Blue Sunshine"  
28  ABC News Nightline  
12:00a.m.  28  Love Boat  
12:30p.m.  16  The David l.etlerman Show  

The Daily Crossword 

for dough 41 TLC 4 Outer: pref. dispenser 5 Cites as 43 Put In the 

authority slammer 6 Exhorted 44 " .•. things 7 Showbiz that-In 
award the night" 8 Hobart's 46 Chapeau lsi. 47 Aria 9 Kind of gun 48 Vaunt 
or missile 49 Possess 
10 Runt 50 Only 
11 Darjeellng 52 Vaticinator 

andoolong 53 Air current ©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 
3/24/82. 

12 Johnson 56 Brouhaha All Rights Reserved 3/24/82 of TV 57 Sgt. e.g. 




---------------------·---..··--:;E1 

ACROSS 29 Gridiron 47 Split: pref. 13 Succeeds 
1 Destine feature 50 Mafia units (wlth30D) 
5 Fair share 33 Chastised 51 Ethnic 18 Did nothing 10 Men only physically ending 23 Count (on) 14 Have-to 34 Cheerful 54 Nuncupative 25 Curved 
grind 35 USIA org. 55 Went to molding 15 Citified 36 Pilaf base often 26 Tufts or 16 Star's role 37 Express 58 Tennis Bono 17 Bartender gratitude score 27 Setto 19 Appraise 38 Enlist 59 Tribunal 28 Glveup 20 Yalie again 60 Campus 29 Sentry 21 To-39 Fifth, for figure 30 See 13D 
Oust so) one: abbr. 61 Haddebts 31 Drunkard 22 Spring 40 Ask 62 Win every· 32 Cometo 
bloomers 41 Scandina-thing a point 24 Catnapped vian 63 Grand Ole -34 Page 26 Arrest 42 Lied 37 Thruway 27 Tools for 44 Rain drain DOWN exits 
shaping 45 Solecism 1 Public 38 Campus 
metal 46 Flambeau recognition group 
2 lndlgodye letters
Tuesday's Solution 
3 She tangos 40 Exam 
Morris Civic Auditorium March 24 Bpm 
Tickets available at box office until showtime I 
Buseswill run from main 
I
circle between 7 and 8. 

___________________________________,I 
I 

Tonight: MOLSON pitcherspecial! Thurs. Senior Formal raffle &drawing! open 10:00-2:00 
p. s. Don't miss lunch on Tues. & Thurs. 11:30-1:30 
..------------------------------------~~~ 
~ 
,--­
r I ~ I 
i 
l 
Wednesday, March 24, 1982-page 12
S~orts 
Speed vs. strength 

Purdue, Bradley in NIT final 
NEWYORK(AP)-There should get our butts back on fense." a terrific defensive challenge," says be no surprises in the strategies for Bradley Coach Dick Versace calls Versace. the championship game of the Na­Purdue "awesome with their size Both teams will probably be a man tional Invitation Tournament. and bulk." down for the final game. Bradley Purdue, a big, disciplined team, will "If you get in a five-on-five game freshman forward Voise Winters has try to control the basketbalL Brad­against them, then of course, they a hadley sprained ankle, and Purdue ley, blessed with balance and speed, have the edge," he says. However, senior forward Mike Scearce has a 
will try to fly. "when you get up on a club like that, hyperextended lower back. 
That's how the finalists got to your quickness can be more Bradley, regular season champion tonight's 8 p.m. EST matchup at valuable to you." ofthe Missouri Valley Conference, is Madison Square Garden, and neither Offensively, Bradley offers a more a three-time winner of the NIT, the coach sees a reason to alter course balanced attack. Senior forward last time in 1964. The Braves have now. Mitchell Anderson took charge finished second rwice and been in 
"We don't have a lot ofquickness. against Oklahoma with 25 points, the final four ofseven times. We're just going to try to play our but all five starters are averaging in Purdue won the event for the first game," said Purdue's Gene Keady. double figures for the four tourna­time in 1974, finished second in 
"We don't want to get carried away ment games. 1979 and third last year. In 1980, the with any type of a foot game, I don't The only starter who didn't score Boilermakers finished third in the believe. If we do, they'll blow us in double figures Monday night was NCAA tournament. 
out." guard David Thirdkill, and that's be­Keady admits that at one point 
In their 61-60 semifinal victory cause he was busy holding Ok-• this season, with a 9-12 record, over Georgia. it was patience and lahoma's high-scoring David Little to Purdue didn't look like postseason good shot selection down the eight points. material. He credits the emergence stretch that did it for the Thirdkill, says Versace, "is the of point guard Ricky Hall, a sopho­Boilrmakers. They got 25 points consummate defensive player in more, with turning things around. apiece from their 1-2 scoring com­America today. He has absolutely "He gave us quickness and he gave bination of Keith Edmonson and the finest technique of any basket­us some defensive stability with his Russell Cross as they improved their ball player at the college level pressure, and he made things hap­overall record to 18-13. defensively that I have ever seen. pen that weren't happening before," 
Bradley, meanwhile, earned its Thirdkill's Mission Impossible said Keady. shot at the title by running past Ok­Wednesday night will be to stop Ed­Versace has said he feels his team lahoma 84-68 behind 25 points by monson, the Big Ten's leading should have been invited to the Mitchell Anderson. At one point, the scorer, who is averaging 26 points in NCAA tournament. And the Braves Braves, now 25-10, outscored the the tournament. so far have been the class ofthe NIT, Sooners 23-5 in the second half to "I think if we could do a job on winning their four tourney games by 
break things open. Cross and Edmonson, that would be 11, 14, 16 and 16 points. 
Likening Bradley to Georgia and NCAA semifinalist Louisville, anoth­er fast-breaking bunch, Keady says, "I don't think you're going to stop 



Hearns to challenge 
those kinds of teams. I think you're 
control it more than anything. 
"I think the main thing is for us to

... Hagler on May 24 
NEW YORK (AP) -"He boxes conditions. In fact, said Steward, well, punches hard and has the Hearns wanted the Hagler fight be­
Media adds to Fernando's woes 
ability to destruct and destroy," cause he figures winning the mid­
Emanuel Steward, the manager­dleweight title is the way to get a 
trainer ofThomas Hearns, says about rematch with Leonard, who stopped 
Unemployment is reaching epidemic proportions. 
Marvin Hagler, the undisputed mid­him in the 14th round for the un­Auto plants are going belly-up. Stocks are taking nose­dleweight champion. disputed welterweight title last Sept. dives. Banks are failing. Welfare is bankrupt. America is But before anyone at yesterday's 16.
Jim Murray

going broke. news conference could ask Steward Hagler said doesn't think Hearns 
And, a kid from Etchohauquila, Mexico, with little or ifhe hadn't got his fighters mixed up, can to carry out his plan, adding, no formal education, a non-citizen who cannot speak Steward said, "My prediction is "I'm just happy to see the fight the language, wants 51.4 million a year for a job for Best of Jim Murray Thomas Hearns will win by a knock­materialize. It shapes up as by far the which he works only every fourth day and then for no out along about the 13th round." biggest payday of Hagler's career. more than an hour and a half, a usually requires a back­crowded around to feel his muscles. He _4idn't really Hagler and Hearns, the former The fight is being co-promoted by up to come in and finish the job for him. have any. Cantinfalas himself flew north to look in on World Boxing Association welter­ob Arum Enterprises, Inc., and 
What he does doesn't contribute to the gross national this rival for his countrymen's affections. weight champion, will meet May 24 SelectTV of America, Ltd., an over­product, will not create new jobs, alleviate suffering, It used to be that you had to kill a bull or knock out a for the middleweight title in a rich the-air pay-television company. 
.... bring goods to market, or revolutionize medicine. In middleweight to get this kind ofadmiration in Mexico . fight, although not as rich as a mid­"We think will be looking at other words, he don't plant taters, and he don't pick But the hysteria seeped from north to south this time. dleweight title defense by either 800,000-900,000 homes and we cotton, lift that bag, or tote that bale. And he doesn't do Mexicans who usually trekked north ofthe border only Hagler or Hearns against Sugar Ray think we'll have 1 million seats for windows. to see prizefights involving national heroes, now came Leonard, the undisputed welter­closed circuit," said Arum. "I think 
Even in his own profession, which is pitching a to ballgames. weight champion. foreign rights probably will bring in baseball, he's scarcely a legend. He's almost 500 lifetime They wrote songs about Fernando. "Fernando! Fer­S1 million." wins behind Cy Young who probably never got a mil­nando!" were the main lyrics, but talk show hosts The telecast also includes a 12­
'It shapes up as byfar
lion his entire career. He's over a a hundred lifetime played them incessantly. They sold T-shirts with his round fight between the Pipino shutouts behind Walter Johnson whom he also trails in • picture on them outside the ballparks. Cuevas ofMexico and Hwang Chung lifetime shutouts by 3,300. He's pitched only 11 com­We joined in the hype. The story ofthe primitive who the biggestpayday of )ae of Korea, the WBC's top two plete games in his career. CyYoungpitched 753. comes out of the wilderness and stands civilization on ranked welterweight contenders, in 
How can a guy with a 1 5-7 big league record be its ear is sure-fi~~ a sportswriter's dream. It's the hoped­Hagler's career. ' what the WBC recognizes as an demanding a million-four? A guy who's probably got no for story ofthe old Indian who shows up in Louisville on elimination bout. shot in real life. I mean, if there's no baseball, he's Derby Day with a pony on a rope -and wins the Ken­Hagler will make S5 million and Asked why his Top Rank, Inc., probably sleeping four-to-a-room, and trying to grow tucky Derby over the Bellmonts and the Whitneys and Hearns $3 million -"maybe even wasn't promoting, Arum said be­cotton and adobe by day. Who's at fault here? the Vanderbilts and all the fat cats from long Island and more," said Bob Arum, who will co­cause of the size of fighter's guaran­
Gotta mirror? I'll tell you who's at fault. We are. Par­Maryland. It's a movie staple. It's also a cinch Monday promote the fight that will be shown tees. SelecTV "wanted the most ticularly, we lords of the flies -we press boxers who column. on pay and closd-circuit television. financially responsible of my com­cover outfield flies for a living. We created this Golem. Television, which is a "Me, Too!" industry, jumped The fight will be held in either Las panies to put up the money. My 
. Everybody loved the story ofFernando Valenzuela. It on the bandwagon and tuned up the calliope. Even East­Vegas or Reno, Nev. company with the most assets is Bob had all the elements of modern mythology. The unlet­ern Seaboard cities caught the frenzy. This was the real Leonard said in Mexico City yes­Arum Enterprises, which is the tered kid who comes walking out ofOld Mexico with a life Warner Baxter in the Cisco Kid with elements ofthe terday that he wants to fight Hagler parent company of Top Rank. Bob screwball and a straw bag and starts striking out the Mark ofZorro. before he retires and mentioned $20 Arum Enterprises is wholly owned flowers of the National League. He looked like a com­It was the stuff that made baseball in the first place. million as his purse. byrne." 

bination ofBabe Ruth and Santa Claus with elements of  The game was becoming too much of a 9-to-5 proposi­ But Mike Trainer, Leonard's attor­ 
Sitting Bull thrown in. A great part for Wallace Beery.  tion, just another briefcase and conference-phoning in­ ney, has said for a Leonard-Hagler  
He was 20, but looked 60, and acted 40. He handled  dustry. Baseball has always needed characters -and  fight  to  take  place Hagler would  
himself like a guy who'd been around for 20 years. He  writers to spot them nd write about them. Baseball  have to weigh in at 154-155 pounds,  
did everything without changing expression. He acted  needed Babe Ruth. But it also needed Ring Lardner. It  although the middleweight limit is  
as ifhe couldn't understand what all the fuss was about.  needed Dizzy Dean. But it also needed). Roy Stockton  160.  
All he was doing was getting batters out, right? He'd  to quote him.  "This  man  (Hagler) is the mid­ 
been doing that since he was 12. These Gringos were  The  Dodgers  were  delighted  They  had  always  dleweight champion," said Hearns.  
sure funny.  dreamt of getting a good Spanish-speaking ballplayer.  "Why should he come down? I think  
The media went wild Fernando lived life in front ofa  Now they had THE Spanish-speaking ballplayer. They  it would be very stupid of him to  
forest of microphon.es. His interviews seemed to con­ sent a publicity man on his trips. Fernando helped the  come down to 154."  
sist of 88 "buenos" and 44 "claros," but the press  game institutionally by graciously consenting to press  But  Steward,  said  Hearns,  who  
laughed and laughed and laughed. At everything he said.  conferences in principal cities. Fortunately, like Babe  will weigh about  155 for  Hagler,  
His interpreter became as famous as he was. Movie stars  See FERNANDO, page 8  would be happy to meet Leonard's  


INSIDE: 

-Track,p.9 -NCAA,p.9 -Sportsboard, p.8 







