
-~------~---~·----­
News Brie/§ 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
Johnson & Johnson has distributed more than 20 million Tylenol coupons worth $2.50 each to entice American into replacing the painkiller capsules they threw away in fear. Extra­Strength Tylenol capsules will be back on store shelves nationwide in new tamper-resistant packaging by the end of December, three months after poisonings in the Chicago area prompted many people to get rid of their Tylenol. On Sunday, Johnson & Johnson began a 520 million campaign to promote the product. The 20 million coupons were inserted in Sunday newspapers, and the giant phar­maceutical firm intends to give out another 60 million coupons on the next two Sundays, said Lawrence G. Foster, vice president for public relations. "The object is to replace the Tylenol thrown away because of fear," he said. "It's also to get Tylenol back in the households." Seven Chicago-area residents who took Extra-Strength Tylenol capsules laced with cyanide died in late September, prompt­ingjohnson & johnson to recall all Tylenol capsules nationwide. ­
AP 
Communist Party chiefYuri Andropov said yes­terday the future belongs to detente, but declared that the Kremlin will make no "preliminary concessions" toward improving relations with the United States. In his first address to the party leadership in Moscow since being named general secretary Nov. 12 to replace the late leonid I. Brezhnev, Andropov stressed the continuation of Brezhnev's foreign policies, including Kremlin overtures to China. On domestic matters, he announced the promotion of a former regional deputy director of the KGB to Politburo voting status, and praised the work ofAndrei P. Kirilenko, whose retirement from the Politburo was officially announced yesterday after several months of rumors that the 76-year-old, No. 3 Kremlin man was out. -AP 
In north Tehran, where Western "corruption" once made its biggest inroads, there are fewer mosques. And these days there are also many fewer movies, con t certs, non-religious or English-language books, and music programs on radio. "The 1V we call 'mullah-vision,' " quipped a young middle-class housewife. "About all they show are religious programs and speeches by mul­lahs." As a result, unofficial "video shops," selling cassettes of Wes­tern films, are one of the few booming businesses in Tehran. In a north Tehran apartment one night, a reporter found two teen-age boys and two girls huddled around a videocassette recorder watch­ing "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest." Not only would the mullahs have frowned on the film, but the gathering itselfwas illicit -put­ting boys and veil-less girls together is an offense punishable by a dozen or more lashes ordered by rehgious courts. -AP 
Chrysler Corporation reopened talks with the United Auto Workers union in Highland Park, Mich. yesterday on 
U.S. and Canadian contracts. A union leader called the atmosphere "conciliatory," but Chrysler said it still cannot afford an immediate pay raise. About 10,000 Canadian workers are on strike against Chrysler, and 43,200 U.S. employees rejected the company's last offer. At a news conference after the first main-table session, UAW official Marc Stepp said he "didn't see the hostility or resoluteness" that characterized earlier talks which resulted in an agreement rejected by U.S. workers. "There seems to be a conciliatory atmos­phere," Stepp, UAW vice president in charge ofthe Chrysler depart­ment. -AP 
Republican Gov. James Thompson was declared winner ofthe closest Illinois governor's race in history yes­terday, three weeks after the election, and Democratic challenger Adlai Stevenson sought a recount. "It's over as far as I'm concerned," Thompson said. The certified tally gave Thompson 1,816,101 votes and Stevenson 1,811,027, a margin of 5,074 votes or just 0.139 per­cent. Thompson signed a certificate that declared him re-elected to an unprecedented third straight term. An hour later, Stevenson, a former U.S. senator, made his expected announcement that he would take the first steps toward a recount, which in Illinois is com­plex and costly. An additional46,418 votes were cast for third-party candidates, so that Thompson won with 49.43 percent ofthe ballots cast. -AP 
Breezy todaywith 40 percent chance of morning rains, then cloudy. Highs in the mid 40s falling into the 30s in the after­noon. Cold today night and tomorrow with occasional snow flurries. Lows in the low 20s. Highs in the upper 20s to low 30s. -AP 

Tuesday, November 23, 1982-page 2 
.........
It's not just turkey 
What does Thanksgiving mean to you? Besides being a good title for an early-morning sermonette, it is a question few people ponder. If the legend of the day is true, then at one time Thanksgiving was more than a commercial and overindulgence opportunity. 
Actually, some historians contend that the pilgrims, in their food engorged glee at surviving one year in America, may have eaten way too much. And as a result, they ended up nearly starving during the ensuing win­ter. Another version has the "friendly" Indians provid­ing tainted and spoiled food, in hopes that the pilgrims would take the hint and go south -to someplace like Newjersey. 
Whatever the truth may be, thanks to Mssrs. Hallmark and American Greetings, we now have a cheery image of Thanksgiving. Lots of corpulent, rosey-cheeked pilgrims frolicking about in a most un-puritan manner. In the backround are the dancing pumpkins, and the cavorting corn. Of course what festive table would be complete with the fold-out crepe paper turkey, with the incongruous smile? . 
Back in the 1950's, the decade currently in vogue as being "the good old days, "Thanksgiving had more meaning -at least in a seasonal sense. The pro-football season was almost over, as 



RyDD Ver Berkmoes 

Monoging Editor 
Inside Tuesday 
ofease and the little amount of thought that goes with our daily meal deserves thanks. 
The pilgrims were also thankful for merely having survived another year. While conditions are not as rough now, except perhaps after a long weekend of parties, we can thank a number of benefactors. First of all, there are our parents who make this this four (or five) year festival known as college possible. If we weren't here busy learning, we might be out in the real world employeed -or victims of supply side economics. 
Just as the pilgrims thanked the Indians -at least in the happy version ofThanksgiving-so we, too, need to remember how vital our friends are to ns. Imagine a day without your friends. There would be no one to com­
plain to regarding dinner's 

opposed to just starting. Pop could don his hat, and the family could troop downtown to see the begin­ning of the Christmas shop­ping season. Nowadays, the downtown has been tom down, and the local mall is having a spring clearance sale. 
What's lacking from all this is a recognition of the true purpose ofthe day. For too many people, Thanksgiving means eating way too much and hoping someone else does the 
dishes. For college students, it is a chance to find some way home for a couple of days of "real food" and sleep. For unfortunate others stuck on-campus, it is a chance to blow off before the Christmas finals rush. 
These are certainly enjoyable ways to spend a holiday, but they don't do justice to the original intent of Thanksgiving. A jolly turkey just doesn't say it. The real turkeys are dead, and for good reason. The fowl birds symbolize the bounty the pilgrims were thankful for. 
Unless you are a rabid WASP, Thanksgiving is not meant to celebrate the survival of the original pilgrims. Rather, we are supposed to follow their example and be thankful for what we now have. And never has this been an e<~Sier task. 
That poor symbolic turkey is good example. With over a third of the world's population going to sleep hungry each night, our conditions stand in stark con­trast. Not only can a person march into his or her local supermarket and select from a variety of turkeys, be they basted or buttered, but that person can select from thousands ofother products as well. The great amount 

dubious dish. Nor would there be anyone to borrow 
notes  from,  bore  with  
meaningless  trivia,  share  
opm1ons  with,  or  from  

whom to welch money. Think about how you "get by with a little help from your friends," and you'll realize the vital role they play in preserving your sanity. 
For too many Americans in their early 20's, Thanksgiving was spent eating foul meat matter on a battlefield. As ofthis writing, 
we're not involved in any 
war, something to be thank­
ful for on this, and every, day. 
People who have their health should not only be thankful for it but try to preserve it. Being healthy is one of life's joys that is not appreciateduntil it is gone ­sometimes for good A visit to any hospital or rest home quickly puts this into perspective. 
While we're busy being thankful, we should give credit to our respective schools. If for no other reason than the cheerful men who plow the snow, or the prof who closes his or her lines and accepts that major project a few days late. Besides, for all the complaing we do, we owe our schools something. And giving thanks now is cheaper than giving thanks as alumni. 
So as you sit down wherever on Thursday, as you sniff the aroma of yams, take advantage of a chance to be optimistic. Let your pessimism lie dormant out in the cold, and pause for a moment to put your own life in perspective. Despite whatever worries you have right now, chances are things aren't as bad as you think. While you gnaw on your turkey, remember, there is a whole world that could be so lucky. 


The Observer 
Design Editor ... Tim "White meat" Neely Design Assistant ............ Pumpkin Pie Puk Typese/lers...................... Drumstick Daniel Cathy Saltalamacchia joe Coscia Mashed Potato Miano Copy Editor ......................... Dressing Diane News Editor .................. Mincemeat Micele 
B & T Layout·············'··············· Ed the Ham Editorials Layout .............. Cranberry Ken 5;mrts Copy Editor ......... Gravy o·connor News Supplement Layout.. Vino Vonder­heide Sports Supplement Layout. Yam Needles 
N.D. Day Editor ................ Succotash Cimo SMC Day Editor .... Brown Crescent Rolls Photographer.................. Umabean Lucian Guest Appearances .......... Birthday Bunny 
The Rei at ives Lots ofTurkeys Plenty ofStuffing 
The Observer 1USPS 598 9201 15 publiShed Monday through Fnday and on horne lovtball Saturdays except dunng exam unO vac atron per1ods The Observer 1s published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys Col· lege Subscnpllons may be purchased lor $25 per yedr 1 S 1 5 per semester) by wnt1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Darne lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a •nernber of The Associated Press All reproduct1on nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre D 'me lnd1ana 46556 



The Observer Tuesday, November 23, 1982-page 3 



Responsibilities ofJournalism Conference 
New-Journalisn1 discussed 
Media-governnient relations 
by Geyer in second session 

'stereotyped' : McCloskey 



enough to swerve the paper from its course, according to Silk. 
"This is less true for small town papers," he added. "It is hard for lo­cal publishers and editors to put their papers on the line when they are in conflict with local businesses. Small papers are more susceptible to this type ofpressure." 
Erratum 

In yesterday's financial aid news special, Notre Dame student tuition as a percentage of total University educaticnal and general revenues was incorrectly reported. The cor­rect figure is 74 percent. In the same story. Father Ernest Bartell was in­correctly described as being in­volved in the setting of tuition and room and board fees. The Obserl•er regrets the errors. 
-

By AMY STEPHAN 
News Staff 
New roles of journalists and their new responsibilities in dealing with ethical issues were the main topics discussed by Georgie Anne Geyer, columnist for the United Press Syndicate, in her talk, "Journalists, the New Targets, the New Diplomats, the New Inter­mediary People", yesterday afternoon. 
Geyer was the first speaker in the second session ofthe "Responsibilities ofJournalism" conference which began yesterday and con­tinues today. This session focused on the relationship between the news media and the government. 
According to Geyer, the Vietnam War 
marked the beginning of an entirely new 
world of journalism. Geyer stated that, during 
this period, "Journalists became diplomats, 
participants -not just observers. They went 
from being simple conveyors of messages to 
arbitrators of truth." 
Geyer stated that two new types of jour­
nalism emerged from thi~ period. Advocacy journalism deals with the belief that a jour­nalist actually can advocate his beliefs within a story. Adversary journalism, on the other hand, promotes the attitude that anyone in­volved in an institution ofsociety is an enemy. 
Geyer said that because of these new at­titudes, "We (the journalists) were becoming self-righteous." She cited adversary jour­nalism as a problem, saying that, "We (the press) cannot remove ourselves from society." 
Geyer also observed that journalists are becoming the targets of blame in many world conflicts. She cited her experiences in Beirut in 1977, where Lebanese officials felt that the presence ofAmerican journalists served to an­tagonize the conflict. While at one time American journalists were considered passive observers of international crises, they are no longer welcome and arc often harassed, she said. Geyer said that this situation caused those who never had been involved directly in the fighting -including journalists, clergy, 
See GEYER, page 4 
By CATHY PAX 
News Reporter 

The romantic image of the reporter expos­ing political dishonesty is not realistic, said Robert McCloskey ofThe Washington Post in his address, "The Executive Branch and the Fourth Branch." 
"The stereotype notion that the govern­ment functions to hide secrets and the press to dig them out and report them is not the real world." McCloskey said. 
Me Closkey, who now works as om­budsman for the Post, has served as a foreign ambassador and secretary of press relations for the state department. He spoke of the relationship between the government and the press as a "fox hunt" with "the unspeakable pursuing the uneatable." 
There is a tendency in government, he said, to believe that the only right story is one that furthers the state's ends. "The government is intimidated by the press," he said. "Its basest inclination is to wish that the press would go away and leave the gcnuises at work." 
He remarked, however, that the press often sees government officials as "easy targets in destroy missions." He observed that the press does not see the consequences the politician's family must face as he is "torn apart" by the media. "The press institutionally has to do more telling it as it is," he said. 
Addressing the problem of dishonesty in government and press McCloskey remarked that "neither of these have a corner on honesty." McCloskey compared the two fields ofjournalism and government. "It isn't a totally different atmosphere," he said, refer­ring to journalists who have entered politics as "poachers turned game wardens." McClos­key found that these ex-reporters tend to be more bureaucratic and overprotective of in­formation than the average government offi­cial. 
There will always be controversy surrounding the press in McCiosi\:ey's opinion. "As soon as you write something about a topic, there is going to be a ·eader out there that knows more about it than the writer and you're going to be critici1ed." 

Economic reporting 
Silk discusses coverage problems 
By KATHLEEN DOYLE 
SeniorStaffReporter 
Separation of the business, news, and editorial functions of the media may be one solution to contem­poraf)' problems of the American press, according to Leonard Silk, economic columnist for The New York Times. 
In his lecture, entitled, "The Et­hics and Economics ofJournalism," Silk said that the American press is experiencing an internal tension caused by the conflicting interests of business and public service. 
"In our country, journalism is a business," Silk said. "There is a little non-profit journalism, such as that done by the Smithsonian Institute and Harvard, but most journalism is profit-making." 
"But at the same time journalism is more than a business," Silk added. "The business of the press is not just making monev, but taking a public role." 
This second function of American journalism, thoug t · demanded by the public, is sometir• .:s denied by the critics, according to Silk. 
"Newspapers do not always live up to the standard," Silk said. "The Pentagon Papers and Watergate are perfect examples of the purpose of the press. They were not performed perfectly, but I feel that, on the whole, they were heroic vindica­tions of the press." 
Silk also said that some advertisers think they can hurt The New York Times by removing their advertise­ments. Such actions may hinder the paper slightly, but usually are not 
"Institutions like newspapers, which are vested with the public in­terest, should not have to peddle their wares lest they have to pander to their public." Silk continued. 
He also said that publishers should promote a sense of profes­sionalism among those who work for the media: "It is up to the leader­ship, such as the American 
, 
\.f Ikl I ·I'IIF \·11\.1 "11-lkf"\ 

C()IWHIJNIICAIJII()N 

~__.___(;JlrlfcAIJ~E ~~\~()~I[)A\,/ lfiiiL~\ ~ltll2lllt~ 7J. ~ 
T.;esday November 23 
Dressed to Kill '·•M ·H•.t· 1 1 ,•P<~··-;t ~~~.:. .• ,,. ···•Ta.... ·r.p.. 
..._..-.... D.,~ ,.,..u" o•a~· r1 •• .f<..!'.tV: .1''11 .,. ·., • .., .... '''''"'"'·'•' '•• ana '·1·c"~a"' . a •··· ll•ilv.. '''" ''"'P'"'""t'O p~,. "'·.1'' .... ",, ·" t1t• · •H..; o-.vc•·oa•a,....<~ 't'!.::t' "J•d.-.' '"''ar\ ( ,.,.,•.-d!, ··'"""'>I ......,,•• '•p<>·.., •.·•·· ·tn• rtna p, .{ .. 
Admission

Annen berg Aud.,SniteMuseum $ 2. o o ...,.
lr1() ~ 11,17 lti lr___._ __, 
Newspaper Guild, to deal with this institutional problem." 
Other problems of the press cited by Silk include the number of one­paper towns and the attitude of careerism -when reporters are more concerned with making a name for themselves than in good journalism common among young news reporters. 





~~\~" 
No appointment I Open 7days 
daily9-8 Sat.9-6Sun11-5 
Grape Road Plaza Grape and Day Roads ~REDI<EN 277-7946 Hair must be shampooed day r-·ut 
~· ~--· 

--~-----~----­
··----··-· ------------------------------­
The Observer Tuesday, November 23, 1982-page 4 

Press vie-ws publicas 'market':Greenfield 
By MARGARET FOSMOE Ifthe March shooting of President Saint Mary's Executive Editor Reagan had been more graphic, said Greenfield, the networks would still 
The growing tendency of the have shown all available camera press to view the public as a market footage immediately, with little or rather than an audience will be "the no editorial judgement. central ethical dilemma of jour­
Greenfield said a "what we can nalism in the years ahead," accord­
show, we ought to show" attitude ing toJeff Greenfield has permeated modern journalism.

Greenfield, a media critic for CBS He used the coverage of the At­News and columnist for Universal lanta slayings as an example of the 
Press Syndicate, said that in the 
decline in common decency. Green­modern competitive atmosphere, field said extensive coverage of the members of the press assume "they grieving families pointed out that ought to be talking to people as a "this is turning into a media circus." 

market." 
He also cited instances of the 

He noted the military nature of press publishing a list of charges, of­market strategies that encourage the ten before an indictment, while 
press to "capture" views and covering themselves by using the "target" groups. 
word "alledged."

Greenfield's remarks were part of The historical "get it first, but get a lecture, "A Decent Respect", it right" ethic of the press is chang­presented during yesterday morn­
ing in that "getting it first" is most ing's session of the "Responsibilities 
important, no matter what it is, he 

Lebanese army tanks pass by Lebanon Presi­&emayel and other members of the government in Journalism" conference at the 
said. 

dent Amin Gemayel yesterday during the first are seen in the background. ( AP Photo) Center for Continuing Education. 
He said because the major

LebaneseIndependence day parade in eightyears. He pointed out that the notion of 
breaches are usually protected un­"common respect" is often con­
der the "public's right to know," the sidered "old-fashioned" in the con­
right to know must be reexamined

Conference continues temporary world. "If real men don't 
and redefined. eat quiche, then modern journalists 
Greenfield charged the pressdon't use the term 'common 
"sometimes gets the facts wrong or

Lerner addresses reporters' problems 
respect' "he said. 
even publishes outright lies." He He noted a decline in editorial 
noted that "fallibility goes with the ner. territory" but that the press "seems
decision-making as a result of
By TONI RUTHERFORD "We are moving in a fluid era of 
modern electronic communications less and less sure what its respon­
StaffReporter He also reminded reporters that, history, as fluid members of society equipment. Speaking on the 19th an­sibility is" in the modern era.
"Being human, we have values. We where anything can happen," said niversary of the assassination of must make a heroic effort to Lerner.
Max Lerner, visiting professor of President John F. Kennedy, Green­Greenfield was previously an aide
recognize them in order to diminish

American Studies at Notre Dame, field said there would be little ques­to Sen. Theodore Kennedy ( D­
their distorting impact." Media is the "stuffofcreativeness"
addressed common problems faced tion today concerning whether or Mass.) and is the author of several and should maintain a creative open­
by reporters in a lecture entitled Journalism, according to Lerner, not to broadcast graphic violence books on politics and the media, 
ness to decentralizing society
"Some Questions that Don't Stay for is one of the human sciences such as the film ofthe Kennedy mur­including Television: The f.,_,, •·•J•Y 
according to Lerner.
an Answer" yesterday morning, the wherein a reporter is forced to be a der. Years and The Real Campaign. third lecture of the first session of "generalist". It is up to the reporter the Responsibilities of Journalism to turn specialized information into conference. general terms that can be under­
stood by the public.
One of the first problems Lerner 
• • • Geyer
discussed was how to translate the Another aspect of media dis­flood of information a reporter cussed by Lerner was mediating the recieves. A reporter's job is "not psychological effects ofthe press on continuedfrom page3 stated that Iran, under Khomeni, at· both sides ofan issue.

simply to know, but to understand the public. Lerner maintained that tempted to send messages over the She suggested that today's jour­the meaning of what we know," the media has a role in public educa­and Red Cross workers -to be heads of diplomats, directly to the nalists should have some knowledgeaccording to Lerner. tion. Unfortunately, according to viewed as targets of blame in the American people, through the press. of ethics and human motivation,Lerner, that role also furnishes the 

"There has been, and is now, a "pathological warfare where no one Geyer cited several dangers in­saying, "The ethics that were im­
language and symbolism of sex and 

hunger for frame, structure, and was in control." herent in this new journalism, but plicit in the old journalism must
violence common to the children of 

meaning in reporting, and a reporter society, resulting in a distortion of Journalists are also becoming noted, "While I see dangers (in the now become explicit. Journalists must sweat for meaning," said Ler-diplomats, according to Geyer. She new journalism) I also see extraordi­must learn to deal with the conse­
childhood. 


AUTHENTIC MEXICAN FOOD 







ELMATADOR 
MEXICAN RESTAURANT IN SOUTH BEND 2120 W. WESTERN AVE. 

288 3600 •··· No•••••••••••••No•••••
Ho~rs: !FREE FANTA_STIC VALU~ FREE ~ 

1"/ues, Wed, z. Buy OGne omnerdat Reg. Pnce ~ 8
Thurs11·9 ~· ELMATADOR et econ Dir.ner ELMATADOR ~ :;J 2120 w. WESTERN 2120 w. WESTERN 0

FREE

Fri, Sat Cu SOUTH BEND SOUTH BEND u 
11-11 I
a EXPIRES 12-11-82 DINE-INORCARRY-OUT NO LIMIT I ~~~I -THIS COUPON NOT GOOD WITH ANY OTHER SPECIAL ND 
== IND.................... • 
nary strengths." quences oftheir actions." 
"Careerism" is another major problem which Geyer mentioned. Geyer has been active in jour­She said that the majority of unethi­nalism for over 20 years. She was on cal journalism occurs because the staff ofThe Chicago Daily News someone is trying to make a name from 1960-1975 and was also a syn­for himself very quickly. dicated columnist with the Los An­
Geyer also is concerned with dis­geles Times Syndicate before taking honesty in style. She said that objec­on her present position as a syndi­tivity is no longer possible, but a cated columnist with the United journalist can he fair and present Press Syndicate. 
......................................Pitr·ssliRG.A"c['[ftf............................ 
T..~.~D.~~g!Y.!.~.tt~.f.~fi.~.~.IJ.~..?.~.b.~.QM~~. Bus will leave Notre Dame (CCE) and St. Mary's (Holy Cross) on: Wed, Nov. 24at 1:00. 
:Will arrive in Pitt. about 9:00. ~Bus will return to ND/SMC from Pitt Greyhound ~terminal on: Sun, Nov. 2Sat 1:00 .. 
,......................................................................................................., .....:,..........1 ~Be thereabout IS min. before ~~ 
~scheduled leaving times. ~-+,-:,~'~­
,,..............................................................................................................................
i YOURBSNISWORIHAN I



i OFFICER'S COMMISSION ~ 
i IN THEARMY. , ! 
~ Your BSN means you're a professional. In the Am1y, it also !! means you're an officer. You start as afull~fledged member of our ii medical team. Write: Army Nurse Opportunities, ! ~ P.O. Box 7713, Butbank, CA 91510. i 
~ ARMYNURSECORPS. ~ 

~ BEAILYOUCANBE. ~ 
l..............,,......,,.,................................., ...,... .........., ·~~ ---· 


-----· -------------·--. 
The Observer 
Burke, Senate revie-w alcohol 

Congress to decide 

Reagan to deploy MX n1issiles 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Wielding both stick and carrot, President Reagan announced yesterday he in­tends to deploy the huge MX missile in a "dense-pack" stringofWyoming silos, then prepared to offer new arms control proposals to the Soviet Union. 
"We would prefer that the Soviets dismantle SS-18's (their intercon­tinental ballistic missiles) rather than we build more holes," Reagan said in a written statement. "But we can accommodate either and main­tain stability." 
To emphasize his long-range goal, Reagan formally named the MX the "Peacekeeper" missile and called his basing plan "a reasonable way to deter attack." 
The long-awaited MX basing proposal, which faces a doubtful future in Congress, would have the United States deploy its first new in­tercontinental missiles in 20 years. 
However, in a nationally televised speech later yesterday, Reagan was to inform the Kremlin leadership that America would prefer reduc­tion of nuclear arsenals to participa­tion in a dangerous and expensive arms race. 
Hours before the formal an­nouncement, all signs indicated the president had accepted the Air Force recommendation to place I 00 MX weapons in superhardened launch silos spaced about I ,800 to 2,000 feet apart near Warren Air Force Base in Wyoming. 
The close-spacing concept, which the Air Force calls "dense pack," represents a dramatic departure from past missile deployment plans, including the Carter administra­tion's scheme for the MX. 
That plan called for spreading 200 MX missiles among some 4,600 con­crete shelters stretching across the Utah and Nevada deserts and shifting real missiles and decoys from site to site. 

The untested theory behind the dense-pack plan is that most of the MX missiles could survive a Soviet surprise attack because incoming Soviet warheads would disable each other as they converged on the MX silos and exploded. 
Reagan said cost was a factor in his decision. "We concluded that by pulling the launch sites closer to­gether and making them a great deal harder, we could make significant savings," from the plan originally envisioned by then-President Car­ter. 
Reagan said his proposed deploy­ment "would require the Soviets to make costly new technical develop­ments if they wish to even con­template a surprise attack. Most of the Soviet's proposed counter­measures are really no more than technical dreams on: which no Soviet planner or politician would bet the fate of his country." 
Student Body President Lloyd Burke led last night's student senate meeting, in which the senate discussed the a/cobol abuse problem atNotreDame and what is being done about it. (Photo by Lucian Niemeyer) 
'\,Uk( rv-Mit "-~t'-r lHFo.f'

~------------------------~~ 
C{)IIVHIJI\JIICAil.()I\J ~~--o llrlfAili(E ~ "'\t()~I()A\,, lt=IIIL"'\ ~~1211~~ 11 ~ 
a .... thl_. ,•£1~~~ Tuesday November 23 
.,;pan-LuC Goo01rn !='anee B b. W ::;g 'TN' rr F•enc., w•!" E.,g,osn suot•nes One ol me .,OS! .mponant or tne r.,rr.s o• ttlf' F•i.ncn New Wave Breal"•ess ·to~·ote •ne gramn-.ar o• trte C•J'\t!'~a a.,a ~sfaDI•sneo !1'\atthe ... o.,ner ,, wn•c., a storv •S 1010 car. De mo•C!' .mpartan: :n :ne stOf~ ·ts.: • At 1ne same tome :ne 111.,.. •S a .,omage ,,.. ...e A.m· tn gangs!~?~ ,,,,.. teatur•.lg Jea~"~-Pau• Be•monoo , .. .,,,. ,,,.,: ... " " •o•e •'aroo., ot 
11uf'T•P"'ev Bogan s c."~a'C"l•C ganl;,ster 

Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum Admission 
-... lr~u ~ lltl31ti lr7pm $ 2 · oo ~ -T:t.J 

First step in deployment 
'Densepack, missile basesproposed 
WASHINGTON (AP)-President Reagan's proposal for putting the new MX missile in a "dense pack" base is based on a theory that the nuclear weapons would be best protected by placing them so close together that attacking Soviet missiles would disable each other before they could knock out all the MX's. 
The MX decision, announced yes­terday at the White House, meets a Dec. I deadline set by Congress for 
settling on a way to house the weapon -which the Reagan ad­
0 fficials fear hardship
ministration sees as central to 
modernizing the nation's strategic fiorpeo• h[e 
nuclear force. r in future 
Congress will have ~0 days to either accept or reject the basing WASHINGTON (AP)-Troubled plan. Opponents say they have the churches, charities, and city officials votes to defeat the weapon outright warned yesterday of Depression-era -by denying it financing. hardships ahead, as thousands of 
Defense officials said IOO MX people are being thrown onto the "super-hardened" launch silos will streets by rising unemployment. be built in a strip about I-! miles long "There is a terrible and growing -covering a total area of about 20 sense of anxiety out there," Nancy square miles -near Francis E. War-Amidei, executive director of the ren Air Force Base in southeastern Food Research and Action Center, Wyoming. told a meetin t g ofconcerned groups. 
The exact site has not been "People feel they are being written selected, officials said, but will be on oil" land now privately owned. "When they give their children to 
The main operating base for the welfare agencies, to Travelers Aid, MX missile field will be at Warren, and to temporary foster home places where the United States already has because they can't feed and clothe 200 Minuteman lil missiles in un-and house their children, something derground silos. is very wrong in this country," 
The total cost of the system will Amidei said. come to about S~0.5 billion, includ-"And when 1talk to people stand­ing S4.5 billion already invested in ing in those liries (at soup kitchens), 
the MA developmem project and research in the past nine years. 
The key to what Defense officials claim will be the ability of the MX's to survive in silos only I,800 feet apart is a phenomenon called "fratricide." 
According to this concept, radia­tion, blasts, fireballs, and debris from the first Soviet warheads to explode in an attack on such an MX con­centration would destroy or disable Soviet warheads following behind. 

Although as many as I 5 MX silos might be destroyed under such an attack, officials said, the rest of the force of IOO MX weapons, each armed with I 0 nuclear warheads, would survive to launch a retaliatory strike against th Soviet Union. 
they are so ashamed. They are so frightened," she added. 
In the meeting called by the U.S. 
Conference  of  Mayors,  
representatives  of  the  major  
charitable  and  public  service  or­ 

ganizations joined city officials in describing the condition of a new group of people -poor for the first r<me and unable to cope. 
"There is a new group of people out there," said Christine Capito Burch ofthe American Federation of State, County and Municipal Workers. "They are unemployed but they've worked for 20 years. They have a house. They want to keep up the mortgage payments to keep that home. In order to do that, they cut down on food. Health care comes last." 
Outward Bound is more than a trip of high adventure. 
It's discovering yourself. Learning that you're better than you think you are. 
And finding out how to work with others. Come join us on a 3-week trip of excitement and self-challenge. You may come back a better you. 
Outward Bound, Dept-CH_ 384 Field Point Rd. Greenwich, CT 06830 Phone toll free (800) 243-8520 
No experience necessary Outward Bound admits students ofany sex, race, color and national or ethnic origin. We are a nonprofit organization_ Scholarships available. 
..~~~~~oc 
,..P 
;;;,  1.  
~.  '-~Outward Bouncr  
~,. __' .,,''  The course that never ends  

.,....... 
Haag iD there! Sendfor ..-eiuformation: 
Name 
Street 
City State Zip 
School ..... Check the courses that intere!lit you: Canoeing _ Desert Expeditions
WhiteWater 
Rafting 
Wildemes~ 
Sailing Bacl>.packing Cycling Mountaineering ­

By BARBARA PillS 
StaffReporter 
The Notre Dame student body's involvement in the Indiana Student Higher Education Association was one of the topics discussed at last night's Student Senate meeting. 
The senators voted to join the as­sociation, a lobby-type group which provides the student's point-of-view to politicians. According to Senator Andy Tucker, it is the only group of its kind in Indiana. 
Notre Dame will be entitled to send one delegate to the meetings of the organization, which is located on the Indiana University campus in Bloomington. 
The top priority of the group will be to increase the amount of governmental financial aid offered to students. 
Also discussed was the recent campus-wide concern over alcohol abuse which has prompted proposals by University ad­ministrators for the elimination of hall happy hours. No concrete in­formation could be provided on the issue, though it was pointed out that no party room is to be in use before 7 o'clock on any evening. A decision concerning the matter is expected to be issued by a member ofthe Uni­versity administration in the near future. 
Chris Tayback updated his com­mittee's progress on securing cable television availability for student dorms. Tayback is presently in the process of compiling a list of proposals supporting cable televi­sion on campus. 
Also discussed during the session was the proposal of improving the existing game room in the basement of LaFortune. Working together on the idea are Tim Farrell and John Kelly, both ofwhom envision the in­stallation of video games in place of some of the pool tables there presently. 
Cheryl Simoneau is working on an idea to open membership in the Uni­versity Club to seniors. Cost of the membership and various application processes are two of the points being discussed on the issue. 

A reminder was made that Senior 
Bar is currently open to under­
graduates on Sunday nights. Due to 
the low student turn-out on Sun­
days, the time will be changed to 
Monday evenings beginning in 
December. 

Mike McAuliffe reported on issues discussed in the most recent HPC meeting. Dean of Student Affairs James Roemer raised the possibility ofissuing a directive banning the use of grain alcohol and the elimination of drinking games in future hall events. 
The HPC decided to ban grain al­cohol in hall party rooms. A verbal notification as to the hazards of drinking games will also be sent to each dorm by the HPC. As a result of the actions taken by the HPC, a campus-wide directive will not be issued by Roemer. 
Before the session was adjourned, it was decided that the next Student Senate meeting will be held in LaFortune. All students are welcome to attend meetings. 
Business & TechnologyTuesday, November 23, 1982 -page 6 


Research Update 
Ashland Oil Inc. has withdrawn it~ sponsorship of a multi-billion dollar project to produce synthetic oil from coal, the company said yesterday. The company, making the announcement from its Ashland. Ky., headquarter:-, cited several reasons for scrap­ping the project. including "the uncertainty of future crude oil prices," the huge cost of the project and possible cost overruns. The Breckinridge project was a planned commercial-scale plant to be located in Breckinridge County, Ky. Although Ashland had researched and tested the technical processes to be used at Breckin­ridge since 1971, the Breckinridge plant had not gone beyond the design stage, according lO Dan Lacy, an Ashland spokesman. In Washington, D.C., the federal Synthetic Fuels Corp. issued a state­ment saying it "regrets but understands" the Ashland decision to pull out ofthe project. In the most widely publicized case, Exxon Corp. withdrew last May from the Colony project, a S5 billion plan to con­struct a commercial plant for extracting synthetic oil from shale in the hills of western Colorado. A S2.7 billion project in Wyoming to produce gas from coal, called WyCoal Gas., also was cancelled this year. Among the major projects postponed this year was the Oc­cidental Petroleurr. Corp. and Tenneco Inc. plan to produce shale oil at Cathedral Bluffs, Colo. -AP 

all Street Update 
The stockmarkettook its sharpest drop in four weeks yesterday, showing no enthusiasm for reductions in the Federal Reserve's discount rate and the bank prime lending rate. Multi-point losses were common in brokerage house stocks and a wide range of blue-chip and glamor issues. The Dow Jones average of 30 in­dustrials tumbled 21.25 to exactly I ,000, for its largest loss since it dropped a near-record 36.33 points on Oct. 25. The last time the average closed below I ,000 was Oct. 29, when it finished at 991.72. Volume on the New York Stock Exchange totaled 74.96 million shares, against 70.31 million Friday. -AP 


Ihe ObserYer 
APPLICATIONS now being accepted for the position of ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR. 
This is a paid position. Call Dave at 239-7-471. 


" 1I
·}·l-' I r.,......_
• 2GR..-\ND 1 
· ~
PRIZE \X'I:\:\ERS 11·in an all expense paid tnp t(Jr themselves and a friend 10 Toronto t(Jr THE \X'HO's last pcrl(mnanc·e. 
• ~0 FIRST PRIZE \X'I:\~I:Rs wm a Koss .\\us1c Box persona! 
pnrtahlc u1ssel!e plal'l:r al<'nl! with 
._: : ,..._ 


·.J ·1 I 
• I ' -.·, •-"' 

Unhelpful heirs 
Woolworth's drowns in fortune 
By MILTON MOSKOWITZ 
Special to The Obserwr 
Frank Wintleld Woolworth, who grew up poor on a farm in upstate New York, built one ofthe first great chainstore businesses, lining the downtown streets of America with tlve-and-ten stores which bore his name F.W. Woolworth emblazoned in gold on a red back­ground. It was a design copied from another early chainstore operation: A&P. 
Today, horh Woolworth's and 
A&P are in disarray, having some­
how lost their missions. Each still 
a casseue of
\ "It\ Hard". the latest reh.:ase hv 
THE \X'HO. 

• 'iOO SECO~D PRIZE \X-1:\~LRS ,,.m THF \X'JIO\ "It\ l·brd" album plu' a Schllll \X'JIO wui l~,hin. 
Lnrn Kl.uJI,, ,l\,til.thk· .II p.trtkip.llllu.: l',to..k.lg< '"h'· rlhi !ll•"i ··I \•'Ill l.t\dr\1,' \\,rll'rLih' h~~l~·..,. 
ranks among the I 0 largest n·tailing organization~ in the t:nited ~tate:-­Woolworth is 6th. A&P I Oth -but that's inertia more than anything else. Neither is growing. In fact, they are shrinking. 
One feature common to both is that the descendants ofthe founders were profoundly uninterested in the store business. They had, instead, an enormous interest in spending money. 
The contrast between hardwork­ing Frank Woolworth and the family members who inherited his money after he died in 1919 was sketched well by James Brough in his book, 


Satellite uplink atND 
By MARY ANN MCMORROW 
News Staff 
Today the ACC, the football stadium, and the Center for Continu­ing Education are being linked to the WNDU studio in order to improve communications and to transmit conferences on campus nationally. 
Only two or three other univer­sities in the country have the kind of satellite uplink that is being used here, according to WNDU promo­tion manager, Gregory Giczi. Use of tiber optic cables is expected to in­crease as their cost falls and becomes closer to that of leased telephone lines. 
Each of four links is made up of a continuous cable, about half an inch in diameter, containing six fibers about the thickness ofa human hair. 
Conventional coaxial cahle would 
be a few inches in diameter. The ad­
vantages of fiber cable include im­
proved video and audio quality, 
almost no noise interference, easier 
installation and the ability to receive 
and transmit information to 
satellites. 
This link-up has been in the plan­ning stage for over a year and con­struction began in mid-summer. 
Although the fiber optic cable i:­more advanced than the rest of thl· equipment, it will let WNDL adapt betrt.-r as new production h:1rdwarc hec• ·mes available. (•ICZI s:l!d that ND 'huuld take .tdanta~e ot heingon the leading edge ofth•~ techuology "The \\;'uolworth~." puhli~.ht·d ear· lier this year hy ;'\lcGraw t -Hill. 
Woolworth. llrough ob:-.erved, wa~ an "oddity" among other self. made millionaires because he found it "impos~ible" to turn hb back on thos t e respon~ible for his success ­his customer~ . . He could not give up mingling with the working classes the way his fellow tycoon~ did. 
On the other hand, Brough pointed out, "The inheritors of his millions behaved as though they preferred to forget how it had all been made in nickels and dimes." 
The most forgetful of all was, of course, Frank Woolworth's granddaughter, Barbara Babs Hut­ton, who inherited a third of his fortune and spent it more easily than most people buying trinkets at Woolworth's. In 1926, when she was 14 years old, she had her own 26-room duplex on Fifth Avenue (her mother had died and her tather, Franklyn Hutton, brother of stock­broker E.F. Hutton, had remarried). She once tipped a bellboy at the Mark Hopkins Hotel in San Francisco $10,000. She married seven times, never to an American-born man, fre­quently ending the marriage with a 
S2  million settlement  on  her  ex­ 
husband.  
In  1979,  when  the  Woolworth  

tlve-and-ten was celebrating it~ I OOth anniversary. Barbara Hutton died of a heart attack -friendless and with no ~urviving relatives. Her son, Lance Reventlow, died in a plane cra~h in 1972. She spent the last the year~ of her lite holed up in the Beverly Wibhire Hotel in Los Angeles. where she lined the win­dow~ of her suite with foil to keep out the sunlight. She was the last of the Woolworths. 
Meanwhile. the F.W. Woolworth Company, as it's still called. was fighting its own battle for survival. It began to lose its footing in the 1960's when longt t ime rival. S.S. Kresge. transformed itsdf into the nation's largest discounter under a new name. K-Mart. Woolworth followed feebly with the Woolco chain but never seemed to have its heart in it. 
In 197S, Woolworth's got a new boss, Edward Gibbons, who was im­ported from another company. The first person to head the company who did not come up from the ranks, he boldly announced: ''Gibbons is here to save old Frank Woolworth's empire, not to liquidate it." 
Last month Gibbons announced he was giving up on Woolco. All 336 stores, accounting for S2.1 billion of Woolworth's S7.1 billion of sale~. will be closed by next February. At the same time, Gibbons moved to sell the 52 percent interest the com­pany has in its British subsidiary, which operates more than 1,000 
F.W. Woolworth stores. So here's what's still left of old Frank Wool­worth's empire: 
--1.5-tO Woolworth stores in the u.S., 190 in Canada and 200 in Ger­many. 
--220 Richman's men's dohing stores. --110 Anderson-Little clothing store~ (mostly in New England). --20 Shirt Closet sportswear stores. 
--1.')OO Kinney shoe stores (the biggest shoest•>re cham under one name) 
--.?-s '>usk's Casuab stores. 
--I 9"' Foot Ln('kcr ,;ton·s. 
--tour frugal Frank's shoe stores.

SCHLITZ ROCKS AMERICA 
Er-. TRiES MUSI Bt RFrEIVf'D BY NCJVE'~Bf-R 311 198/ 

~--~~--.-.-----~-...~---.------------------~----~----------~----~~------------------------------~-----------~--------------~~----------·-. 








Editorials 

Tuesday, November 23, 1982--page 7 

anury ast project: assessing implications 

This is the second ofa two-part serie:. on the responsibilities and implications of the A. Murty Kanury atomic test blast project. The project, funded by the Department of Defense, endeavors to answer the question, "is the test blast ofa scale-model city built in a Western desert the most effective means of studying how a nuclearexplosion..would af­fect a modern city?" 


Paul McGinn 

Roper Review 
The implications of the Kanury project demand as much concern as the responsibility for a possible nuclear war. The precedent set by the University's approval of Kanury's project opens the floodgates to any number of other similar Defense Department projects. 
It does not seem sensational to think that if the Kanury project is morbidly successful, the Defense Department will gaze appreciatively upon Notre Dame's research capabilities. And this would undoubtedly lead to more defense­related contracts. 
Another implication ofthe project is the ap­
parent shift in culpability for any such project. Throughout the affair, the University has refused to comment to the national press, especially to the leading investigator of the experiment, The National Catholic Reporter. 
Since the first interview with Kanury in August, The Reporter has been met with silence. Kanury says he was misquoted and his words were taken out of context. The com­munication gap between the University and the press has contributed to Kanury's ap­pearance as the malefactor in the matter. 
This separation of the scientist from the community he represents is another dan­gerous precedent: the University is apparently disclaiming responsibility for research done on its campus. 
But the most obvious implication of the presence ofthe project on campus is that the University abides by no ultimate standards ofa community-held philosophy. Though this fact is by no means a precedent in itself, it relates a staggering fact about University policy. 
Notre Dame has willingly accepted con­tributions from arms manufacturers, most notably the Bendix Corporation, and the Chrysler Corporation. But Notre Dame silences objections to the acceptance ofthese donations: although these corporations do manufacture weapons or weapons systems, their primary concern is civilian projects. These corporations produce machines ofwar only when the need arises. 

But one need not search fur to discover that the military contracts of such corporations are on-going affairs, not limited by the nebulous notion of "need." No one can deny the present production of Bendix's missile guidance systems or Chrysler's X-1 tank. 
The presence of the Kanury project only enhances the University's inconsistency, as manifested in its stance on nuclear weapons. While Hesburgh signs The Declaration on Prevention ofNuclear War, S266,000 worth of military projects takes place in his own backyard. 
In the face of such a contradiction, it is no wonder that so many take the declaration lightly. This document of high ideals rings a hollow note in face ofsuch a discrepancy. The apparent contradiction between the values manifested in the document and the values manifested in the explicit approval of the Kanury and other military projects has made Notre Dame the laughing stock ofacademia. 
It is no wonder that so many smirk at Hes­
burgh's glowing tribute to Jonath·m Schell's The Fate ofthe Earth. Hesburgh can only offer empty praise for this work, as he can claim no empathetic virtue. 
Notre Dame, the great bastion ofAmerican Catholicism, cannot even decide whether it should first be American or Catholic. The 2ge­old priority listing ofGod, Country, and Notre Dame is becoming blurred, and the priorities are being interchanged to meet the fickle demands ofthe Defense Department. 
The Declaration on the Prevention of Nuclear War and similar documents are in­tended specifically to influence world politi­cal leaders. But how can these leaders take such pleas seriously in light ofsuch hypocriti­cal policies? 
Notre Dame policy is like a blade ofgrass ­when the wind .blows, it goes with it. But Notre Dame stands for more than simple intel­lectual inquiry and academic honesty. 
Notre Dame should stand as a witness to the living Church Church; Notre Dame cannot shake its moral responsibility to the pacifist traditions and teachings ofthe Church. But foF the present, Notre Dame, to paraphrase Theodore Roosevelt, "has the backbone of a chocolate eclair." 

Humanae Vitae-eminently realistic 
On November 1 S, The Observer published an anonymous letter in response to an earlier letter by Dr. Janet Smith. The author treats a delicate issue in an admirably sensitive way, but, unfortunately, the treatment is flawed by errors. factual and otherwise. ln particular, the fundamental questions surrounding artifi­cial contraception have been inaccurately identified and the position of the Church, to 



Bob Kennedy 
Guest Columnist 
say nothing of the positiOn of married laity within the Church. has been unintentionally misrepresented. 
In the first instance, the question of whether individual married couples have the right to decide. for appropriate reasons, to limit the number of their children is not at issue. Indeed. the Church commends respon­sible decisions about family size. While inap­propriate reasons do exist for wanting to limit family size, the fundamental questions con­cern the means which may he legitimately employed to achieve that goal. Given this as the question. what should the role of the Church be' 
The answer here is important since the Church will he judged, in part, on how well 
she fulfills the role we define. unfortunately, it seems that a great many people assign a sort of arbitrary legislative function to the Church. lt is almost as if certain activities in some times and places, and perhaps not in others. While this is an appropriate model for our Congress, it is far too legalistic tor the Church, at least with respect to general principles governing human action. 
What we ought to expect, and here we have the Church's own self-detlnitiO!J to guide us, is that the Church will assume the responsibility of telling us what kinds of actions, in the con­crete, we ought to engage in (or not engage in) in order to accomplish the goal of "ultimate and eternal joining with god." Some kinds ofactions facilitate this. while other~ im­pede it. To say that the Church has the respon­sibility to identify human actions a_~ belonging to one class or the other is not to say that, by her mere declaration, the action becomes morally good or bad. 
Even a cursory reading ofHumanae Vitae should reveal that Paul VI did'. not see himself as making a legislative decision. but rather a judicial one. As the appointed spokesman for the Universal Church. exercising his prop­hetic office, he declared that. according to the natural law, "each and every marriage act must remain open to the transmission of life." 
Put negatively, this is to say that any act of intercourse within marriage which is purposely rendered infertile, is that kind ofact 



The Observer 
I;.,. f)/,ot<'' ".111 1ndcpcndcn: nc"'f'.lf't·r f'uhll,ht·,j by the ,t<~<knt' ot the 
111\l'I'IIY uf 1\:llifl' [),unc d<l r .ll .llltl S.unt l\1.nv', ( ulk,t.:c ft doe' r·llt lll\l'".lftl)' rdit-<1 the poltttt'' of the J•illllllt,tr.lliOtt lll t'lthl'r lll~titutll>tl Tht' nev., 1' fl'f'Ort l'•l ·'' ,l<tur.ltell' .1nd ,l, uhtt\11\dy .l, f'O"tbk hlttOrl.ll, rt'j'rt"icnt the opt:li<Hl of .1 m.qortly of the l'.dllurl.l! Bu.tr,l ( u>~lllll'ill.lrll·,. t>f'tllllln' .lrhl letter' .lft' the nnn nt thur author'. ( ulumn ~f'J,l' 1' J\.ltl.lhk ''' .dl nwmhcr, ut thl' .ummunll)'. .1nJ the free expn.•,stun ot \'.lf}'lng optntom on c.lmpu>. through lttteo. 1> encoungeJ. 
P.O.Hox Q. Notre.· Dame.·. IN -!(lSS6 l219) 2.N-S505 

which lessens human dignity and impedes the supernatural goal oflife. 
We have a tendency to see decisions like this as judgements which have the effect of denying something to us which would other­wise enhance our lives. We also tend to see them according to a legislative model, which implies that the Church has the authority to reverse the decision. if only theology would catch up with modern realities. But such views arc false, regardless of how enthusiasti­cally they might be encouraged by well­intentioned theologians and priests. 
Equally false is the view that the doctrine of Humanae Vitae is an ideal rather than a norm applicable to all married couples in the Church. This was recently reinforced by Familiaris Consortia (paragraph 34). 
On the other hand, it is true that each couple must decide for themselves which course of action they wi!l choose. But this decision must come to grips with the teaching of the Church as it really is, not as it is merely purported to be. No responsible decision can be made without a careful scrutiny of the documents and a respectful and obedient con­sideration ofthe reasons and explanations put forward. 
It might be appropriate to know, for ex­ample, that the Church does indeed distin­guish between barrier. abortifacient and 
anovulant methods of contraception, con­trary to the impression created by the author 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief.... . ....... Michad Monk Jlmwp,inp, Editor.. .. ....... Ryan Ver Berkmoes Executit•e .\'eu•s Editor.... . . David Dziedzic S.HC Executil'e Editm·. ......... Margaret Fosmoe .\jJorts Editor.. ...Chri~ ~eedles Editorials Editor ...... Paul :\lcGinn Features Editor ...... . ...... .Tari Brown Photo EtltMr .. .... .. ...Rachel Blount of the letter, and that there is no confusion at all about the difference between contracep­tion and abortion. ln fact, there are grounds for saying that the Church evidences a greater sensitivity to personal and sociological realities than do her critics, but such a judg­ment depends upon a careful reading of the documents themselves, not mere summaries of the documents. 
ln the last analysis, any decision about the use of artificial contraceptives remains a per­sonal decision, as do all moral decisions. This is the fearful cost of our human freedom, and while it would be easier to defer to a "church" which would make those decisions for us, that is emphatically not the character of our Church, regardless of the view so often presented. Those of us who choose to accept the teaching of the Church on the matter of artificial contraception are no less thoughtful than those who do not. 
We do not see ourselve~ as accepting a bur­den but rather as remaining open to a genuine human fulfillment, and we prefer this open­ness to the arbitrary closing offof t.uman pos­sibilities which results from the alternati\·e. At times this is difficult and even frightening, but with grace and perserverence the norm proposed by Humanae Vit.le is eminen~ly possible and realistic. 
Bob Kennedy is a doctoral candidate in the Notre Dame Medieval Institute. 


Department Managers 
Business Manager................ .Ton\· Aiello Controller............................... ..........f:ri(' ~chulz Advertising Manager ....................... Chri., <>w.en Production Manager .................. Maura .\lurphy Circulation Manager ..........................Ray lnglin Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oaklc~ 
Founded November 3, 1966 

--~~------·-------..--------------------~·~·.......-------_..,......---------------...-.---~----~---------~-----~·-------~-~---------.., 
------------------------------------------·------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, November 23, 1982 -page 8 News Special 



The Work/Study program Students find jobs in campus libraries, the athletic office, the dinmg halls 

Uncle Sam's money 
Federal programs face ax but remain steady 
.. 
r· 
-·· 
1:-: 




The Hunt Is On! 
Students go in debt to pay college 
By KATHLEEN DOYLE 
SeniorStaffReporter 
The federal government has tightened the screws on the Guaranteed Student Loan program sin{:e President Reagan took office two years ago, and according to the Notre Dame Financial Aid office, more changes are still possible for the 1983-84 academic year. 
"Perhaps the most likely change is an across-the-board 'simple needs test' require­ment," said Financial Aid CounselorJane Kelly who coordinates the Notre Dame GSL program. "Such a regulation would require all students, regardless offamily income, to demonstrate a need for a loan." 
Other proposed changes are the elimina­tion ofgraduate, law, and professional stu­dents from the program and a doubling ofthe surcharge. This surcharge was set at five per­cent last October. Reagan's proposals would raise it to ten percent. 
This means that a student now receiving a loan of S2,500 and having SI 25 subtracted from it for processing fees, will have S12 5 more subtracted from it ifthe proposals are accepted. 
The GSL program is the biggest source of federal assistance at Notre Dame. Ofthe SI6 million offederal funds utilized by Notre Dame, approximately S 13 million is used in the GSL program. Last year, 4,7 4 7 students borrowed S 12,563,206. As ofmid-September, 3,087 students had borrowed 58,231,832 for the 1982-83 academic year. 
Nearly 95 percent ofthe Notre Dame stu­dents receiving Guaranteed Student Loans during the 1981-82 academic year had their loans processed prior to the implementation ofthe 1981 Postsecondary Student Assistance Amendments. 
These amendments were contained in the 
Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981. 
With their enactment, family income has 
become a factor in determining GSL 
eligibility. Those families with an adjusted 
gross income more than $30,000 and less than 
S75,000 are currently required to prove their 
need using either the simple needs test or the 
Financial Aid Form. 
Families with an adjusted gross income of 
S75,000 or more must use the FAF. 
The Omnibus Reconciliation Act changed the Middle Income Bill of 1978 which had removed the income ceiling on the program. 
"The Guaranteed Student Loan program was getting too expensive for the govern­ment," Kelly said. "More families were par­ticipating under the Middle Income Bill and the economy was so bad that the government found it necessary to put tighter restrictions on the program. Now loan eligibility is calc­ulated by subtracting from the school budget the estimated family contribution and the amount offinancial aid the student receives from other sources." 

"There is abuse of the loan program," Kelly added, "but that is not the primary reason for the present push for further restrictions. Abuses do exist, but it is rarely mentioned that 94 percent of those students who borrow money, repay it. The national default rate is only six percent. 
"The influence ofabuse stories on con­gressmen is probably one ofthe reasons for the restrictions, but the greater force leading to reform is the great cost ofthe program," Kelly said. 
The cost, Kelly said, has increased for two main reasons. The first is that more people need and are borrowing loans. The second reason is that due to the nation's poor economy and high interest rates, the special allowance the government must pay on the loans has greatly increased. 
The special allowance is the additional in­terest on a student loan which the govern­ment pays to the lender, both while the student is in school and while the student is repaying the loan, so that the total interest being paid on the loan is comparable to the current prime interest rate. The special al­lowance is interest in addition to both the seven or nine percent interest paid by the government while the student is in school and the interest paid by the student after gradua­tion. 
"The assigned seven or nine percent inter­est rate on astudent's loan is fixed," Kelly said. "The special allowance is required to make up the difference between the assigned rate and the current prime interest rate. Thus higher prime interest rates increase the govern­ment's special allowance costs." 
Aprogram similar to the GSL program is the 
relatively new Parent Loan for Undergraduate 
Students program. Recent legislation makes 
this program available to independent under­
graduates and graduates in addition to parents 
ofdependent undergraduates. 

Interest rates on PLUS loans are based on Treasury bills. If the prime interest rate drops and remains down for a year, then the PLUS rates will drop. Last October, the interest rate was 14 percent, but during the last year the average rate dropped to 12 percent. The new interest rate of 12 percent on PLUS loans became effective Nov. I. 
1,288 students who participated. Students may receive up to a 53,000 but are limited to S6,000 during their four years. The average loan in 1981-82 was 5973. 
The federal Office ofEducation awards NDSL funds to colleges each year to be dis­tributed to students in their financial aid package aid package. The Financial Aid office must apply annually for the funds. 
Russo said Notre Dame, "just like all other instituitions, receives far less from the govern­ment annually than needed by its students." 
Students who sign up for loans must begin repayment six months after completing school. The period had formerly been nine months. Interest rates have increased one per­centeach ofthe past two years to five percent. Students may take up to I 0 years to repay the loan, with minimum quarterly payments of 
545. 
The rate ofdefault on NDSL's by Notre Dame students is 8.4 percent. The national rate is between 15 and 20 percent. 
• A limited number ofstudents also receive Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grants as part oftheir financial aid packages. Notre Dame is responsible for selecting recipients ofthis federal grant. Students who receive the grant, which may be as large as S2,000, have exceptional financial need. It is targeted for those students who otherwise would be unable to afford Notre Dame. 
Foreach award, the student'sfinancial need is carefully evaluated. The average SEOG for 1981-82 at Notre Dame was 5727 for the 629 students receiving one. The amount ofmoney the federal government allocates to each school determines the amount and number of these grants. 
"As in the NDSL program, the University receives far less from the government than is needed," Russo said . 


Computer aiding 

Companies offer to say where the money is 
By CATHY PAX 
StaffReporter 
You missed out on a scholarship last year. 
The reason you are still reading is why scholarship searchcompanies have continued to spring up across nation despite heavy criticism from consumer advocate groups. 
Awards and scholarships amounting in the millions ofdollars go unclaimed every year, these companies say, but computer data banks can inform students ofscholarships sources they may have overlooked. 
Twenty thousand students each year employ Scholarhip·Search, the oldest of these companies, to aid them in their search for financial a:d. Scholarship Search guarantees the student a referral list offinancial aid sources for which he is eligible. 
Much confusion and controversy has developed because the company cannot guarantee a scholarship per se, but can only advise the student where to look. 
Mary Ann Maxin, director ofScholarship Search, said, "We cannot guarantee that a stu­dent will receive a scholarship but we can in­crease his chances. We will save him time as we lead the student to paths where he will be most successful. Using our service, a student won't be caught barking up the wrong tree." 

Scholarship Search will refund the 545 processing fee if the student does not meet the requirements ofany ofthe scholarships listed. The company says that 40 percent of the students who use its service receive funds through the direct pursual of the sources listed. The average scholarship listed in its data bank is approximately $1,000. No scholarship under $250 is listed. 
"We list some scholarships for four years of full tuition, room and board, and books, but these are few and far between," Maxin said. 
A similar venture, Scholarship Bank, aids 10,000 to 15,000 students a year. This com· pany offers two packages -a minimum of 20 sources for 535 or a minimum of 50 sources for 545. The company reports that there has never been a problem finding scholarships. Close to 300 sources were once provided for a single student. The company contends to have once found 36 scholarshipsfor a student planning a major in deep-sea diving. 
None ofthis amuses financial aid directors 
at colleges across the country. Notre Dame 
By PAT MALLEY 
News Staff 
Three other federal programs besides the Guaranteed Student Loan and Work/Study provide students with financial assistance. 
The National Direct Student Loan Program, the Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant Program, and the Pel! Grant Program supplied more than 52.5 million dollars for Notre Dame students last year. 
• The Pell Grant, formerly the Basic Grant, is a grant for undergraduate students with United States citizenship and enrolled in school at least on a halftime basis. The grant is adminis­tered and funded by the U.S. Office ofEduca­tion. According to ND Financial Aid Director Joseph Russo, Notre Dame is simply an "agent in the process." 
Unlike most sources offederal aid, funds for Pell grants this year actually increased despite President Ronald Reagan's veto ofthe first al­location, which he deemed too large. Congress, however, voted to override him and acrually increased funding. Russo said there may be a S20 to S126 hike in the size of the awards, increasing the maximun award from SI,674 to Sl,800. 
Astudent who has completed a proper ap­plication -the Financial Aid Form is just one ofseveral possible forms -is assigned an eligibility index number. Notre Dame translates this number into a predetermined amount ofthe grant and credits the student's account for that amount. 
The federal government is then billed for all the Pell money awarded -S861 ,972 for the 1981-82 academic year. 
• The National Direct Student Loan Program represents the largest form ofcampus-based federal aid administered by Notre Dame totalling more than S 1.2 million dollars for the 
Financial Aid Joe Russo ran his own test to determine the credibility ofthese companies. He created a name, mailed a dollar and re­quested the application for computer assis­tance. 
The company requested information about residence, background, race, religion, schools being considered, and income. 
When Russo did not return the application with the S39 processing fee, the company wrote to offer him the same package for only Sl9. Russo said, "I think 60 Minutes would· have a field day with these companies." Russo has recommended that the National Associa­

,,__________________ 
60 Minutes would have a field day


-----------------'' 
tion ofStudent Financial Aid Administrators 
investigate that particular company. 
"Most of these companies are trying to 
make some money at the expense ofvery vul­
nerable students and families," he said. 
"l don't have much credence in most of 
these companies," Russo said, adding that a 
student could find the most productive 
sources with a little effort through the Finan­
cial Aid office and library at no cost. 
He said that the obscure scholarships that 
the companies advertise as going unused are 
so restrictive that very few students qualify. 
"Typically, these are not going to result in any­thing for the normai'Joe College' kid." 
Scholarship Search disagrees with this state­ment as it promises to list more than 250,000 sources. Maxin said that "information is provided at the student's fingertips with our service." She said ideally guidance counselors should use Scholarship Search to help direct students. "We should be used as a research tool. Unfortunately, guidance counselors see us as a replacement for their jobs." 
The Scholarship Bank company advertises through posters placed in financial aid offices. One third of the company's applicants are referrals from these offices. Scholarship Search advertises only through the mail. Names ofgraduating high school seniors are purchased from mailing houses. Its brochure lists the name ofstudents who have won scholarships with the help ofScholarship Search. 
The company once listed a Notre Dame stu­dent as their leading testimonial. He had reportedly won five valuable scholarships with the company's aid. Russo contends two ofthe scholarships were awarded by Notre Dame and the student would have been automatically considered for both ofthem through the normal financial aid process. An­other scholarship listed was a California state scholarship that the student never received because he attended an Indiana school. The company was still using this testimonial six years after the scholarships were awarded. 



-------------~---~-..,._--.-~~--~~-~----~~-----~-----~ ~----~------~------­
News Special 
All work and some pay 
Work/Study helps students pay that b1g bill 
By SARAH HAMILTON 
News Staff 
"A job is financial aid." 

So says Notre Dame's Employment Coor­dinator Sharon Veith who views campus student employment as a key ingredient in Notre Dame's financial aid recipe. 
Students demonstrating financial need are given first preference for the limited number ofcampus jobs, according to a policy es­tablished several years ago by University offi­cials. 
Nearly halfof the campus jobs are supported by the federal Work/Study program. Not unlike other forms offinancial aid, Work/Study has fallen victim to the many recent cuts in the federal budget. For the 1982-83 school year, Notre Dame has been allocated 5735,000 in Work/Study funds. This is a substantial decrease from the Sl.2 million received in 1980-81, the University's peak year. Since federal funds have diminished, fewer students received Work/Study awards this year because ofstricter eligibility require­ments. 
Nevertheless, Veith said that even ifall 

federal money disappeared, Notre Dame 
would retain most ofits student jobs. 
Work/Study was implemented in 1965 as 

part of the Higher Education Act and is 
designed "to stimulate and promote the part­
time employment ofstudents who 
demonstrate financial need," Veith said. 
Although this act has been amended 

Endownment funds University programs 

ByJOHN HINES 
News Staff 
Uncle Sam's financial aid programs have 
taken a beating lately, but Notre Dame does 
have some endowed scholarship programs of 
its own which are independent offederal 
funds and federal red tape. 
Notre Dame awards two basic scholarships 
from its own monies. 

•The first, and perhaps best known, is the Notre Dame Scholars program available to the 300 Notre Dame Scholars selected by the Ad­missions office from each year's applicant pool. 
Scholarships are awarded only if the ND Scholar demonstrates financial need through the normal financial aid process. Scholarships range from SSOO to S3,SOO (varies from year to year) depending on just how much need the student shows. 
The primary source offunding for the Notre Dall!e Scholar program is the annually earned interest from the University endowment. As of June 30, S27 million of the endowment 
... Applications 
continuedfrom page I 
get the FAF to the College Scholarship Service on time, Saint Mary's recommends mailing the FAF before Feb. 15. 1983 to meet the March I, 1983 deadline. The Saint Mary's Financial Aid Application is due in the Financial Aid Office by March l. 

Additional forms arc required for the Guaranteed Student Loan program. Ifa stu­dent is applying only for the GSL, the Guaranteed Student Loan Application is sub­stituted for the Financial Aid Form. All ofthe applications for the GSL are dueJuly 1, 1983. 
After March I, the application process for federal financial aid is completed. Next, a stu­dent must wait to receive a Student Aid Report, and all three copies must be sent to the Financial Aid office before student eligi~l}~~an be determi_ned;.. __ ,_ . _ numerous times, the basic requirements for eligibility in the Work/Study program remain the same. 
• A student must first demonstrate financial need by filing the Financial Aid Form before March I each year. Need is assumed ifcollege costs are above a student's other financial aid and family contribution. 
Regardless of a student's financial status, Veith said it is necessary to file an FAF to "get into the system." 
• 
The second requirement is that students must be in "good academic standing," exhibit­ing "satisfactory academic progress." Present­ly, the federal government is questioning whether or not these words have uniform meaning at all colleges. Various financial aid organizations, including the National Associa· tion ofFinancial Aid Administrators, are trying to standardize these terms. 

• 
Ifa student meets these requirements and is awarded a job as a form offinancial aid, he or she must then complete an application specifically for Work/Study. Among other questions, the application asks for the stu­dent's class, intended major and any prior ex­perience in Work/Study. jobs in some departments require specific skills or ex· perience, which may be related to a student's field ofstudy. 


Students also may request certain jobs or jobs in certain departments although there is no guarantee that requests will be accepted. 
• Once the application is filed, a student must acquire an authorization slip from the Office 
generated·funds to support undergraduate scholarships. 
•The second Notre Dame scholarship is the Holy Cross Scholarship for minority students who demonstrate financial need. Once again, this scholarship is awarded to incomingfresh­men and is subject to yearly re-evaluation. 
The money earned by the Notre Dame foot­ball team's 1970 and 1971 bowl appearances provide an endowment for the Holy Cross Scholarship. 
•The most conspicuous scholarships (actually called grants-in-aid because they are not based on financial need) are athletic scholarship~. The athletic coaches, not the Financial Aid office, determine the recipients ofthese grants. Funds for these come directly from the earnings ofthe "producing" sports such as football and basketball and have no· thing whatsoever to do with the funds used for the Notre Dame Scholar program or the 
Holy Cross Scholarship Award. 
Notre Dame offers no fully paid scholar· 
ships except through the Athletic depart· 
ment. 
The first step in applying for any University 
financial aid, as well as what is available from 
the federal government, is filing a Financial 
Aid Form. The FAF correlates financial data 
from parents and students alike to determine a 
student's financial need. The suggested date 
for filing the FAF is at least two weeks before 
March 1 but afterJan. 1. 
The Financial Aid office analyzes a student's 
financial aid and awards both campus-based 
Problems arise when students apply late, said Casey. "We are encouraging applicants to get their applications in on time," she said. Other problems develop when letters sent to the students requiring immediate response are nor returned to the Financial Aid office. 
Financial aid awards are made on the basis of need as well as ac;;c!emic performan.ce. Since thes-: awards art:'made annuaily, it is necessary to reapply fpr aiJ each year. Eligibility isprimariiy detern•ineG fro.;n. family 
income for the previous cale1;der year. 
Last year, 68 percent ofSaint_Mary's stu­dents received financial aid, according to statistics. Funds may bt: significanrly reduced for the 1983-1984 school ~;ear l'ecause of proposed ch;mges in the finlmcial aid program 
by the:. Reagan adm_.!,n_i~~~~,tio~. ~-. 


Tuesday, November 2~, 1982-page 9 

ofStudent Employment. This form shows the amount ofearnings for which he or she is eligible and also lists a referral to a specific department for employment. 
Most student employees find work in the dining halls. Th~ libraries are a close second. Other places ofstudent employment are the laundry, book store and residence halls. With­in academic departments, students are hired as tutors and graders. 
There are far more students wanting campus employment than there are jobs. Con­sequently, the Office ofStudent Employment tries to avoid placing a student in more than one job. 
University policy mandates that no student work more than 20 hours a week. Most stu­dents average 12-13 hours. 
Most employed students earn a basic rate of S3.65 per hour. Some, however, earn as much as H.40 per hour, depending on the the job. 
For Work/Study jobs the federal govern­ment pays a portion of this salary leaving the University to make up the difference. 

Saint Mary's 
By VIC SCIULLI 
Assistant News Editor 
Federal budgest cuts are casting a dark shadow on next year's Work/Study program budget, and small colleges like Saint Mary's stand to suffer. 
Saint Mary's received S125,000 in Work/Study dollars this year,-80 percent com­ing from from federal funds with the other 20 percent coming from the College. 
1982 was the first year that Saint Mary's ex­perienced a decrease in Work/Study money, according to Financial Aid DirectorJudith Casey. Work/Study has been the last program 
federal funds and University money accord­ingly. After freshman year, any Notre Dame stu­dent with a grade point average higher than 
3.0 and demonstrating financial need may receive some financial assistance from Univer­sity monies, albeit very small. The Financial Aid office first reviews the record ofstudents who qualified for financial assistance in the previous year. Ifgrades become too low or if need no longer exists, the aid could be ad­justed. 
Scholarships based on need and merit 


By GAIL KRAFT 
News Staff 
That universal obstacle to a college educa­tion -money -has become a quite smaller hurdle for many Saint Mary's students who collectively receive more than S500,000 in scholarships from the College. 
The College awards scholarships based on an evaluation ofa student's financial need and academic record. Acommittee ofSaint Mary's 
........... 
, 

....._.........R_., ... -.............. _ .... .. 
______........~ ...---·-­
_ ..... _.... ....... _><"-,... _ .._
._.." __..,_____.. _ 
..........-...-...-.. 
·~·....-...............­
·:::....:;;::--..........______ 
...--....................,_
.........._...,_ ... -......,_.._...... 
"''''" ... <;U.~ ........... -.... __.... .. _
,..._.._____..,._.. ____
._..............-.................,...,_.. ... 
,.••••_ .... _ ... 4 ........._ ..... 
,_ --.......... _ -.............................,....._,_,__.._. ....,...
---·-· .,._cu""'
...............,....._.___._ ......... .. ... • _ ............ c.....,,.____,
~
_._..........................._ .. ......... -----·------­
,.....,,. . .,_._,.._ ....or.--"~--··
-·----.....-....-...........-.._ __c:.....·-­
.................-..._......................... 
§~;~~~::.:·~~=
"-......--,__............ -r-oh·-·...,,_ _
.......____., ......____ _._,.. 
--·-··'--·-... . -..........__ ----·--...._,...-~. ,................ __.._ -~ 
_ 
_. ...--_........_.____
..............................._... ..............-----~··-_ ............. 
.......-........--.. --..... --.""'"'-••lit.. 
.........-....----····..···-·-......-----,~~ ..-...._.._,
...... ---·· """""'""''...~..-....... _.,..""' ___.. __.....
-._.~ 
·-·----·-----....-...­
,......_•• ..........·--·-~ _---r--•-_ .. ,....._
__,..........._...........__ ....._ 
•-.eN.,.-._....,.,,_..,.,_._,,.,.,.,,_~.,..., 
..........._...............~..--..-..........-­
·------...·----......_.._
........ --·--·~.. ..__..................... --·-.....·-----... --.....,.,
:::,::.'7,:;:::-;.oo;:::-_--:;:::.::.::.::..":"!::
·---r••-•---..,.,,... -..............-~.-.........--.....
__..........____...,_ .... ,_ ....,....___ -.-...-...-­
--..... eM 
Deadline: March 1 
hit by the budget cuts, C;~sey said, because Congress has long com·idered Work/Study an excellent application ofthe "work ethic." 
Approximately 175 Saint Mary's students are currently participating in the Work/Study program. Wages are S2.85 an hour, 50 Cl nts less than the current minimum wage. 
The amount of money available is the most important factor in determining who gets aid, Casey said. "We try to help as many people as possible," she said. 
Initial placements for Work/Study jobs are made in the spring with incoming freshmen being placed last. The Financial Aid office at­tempts to schedule work hours around classes but requires students to work through exam cycles. 
Casey said that she hopes to have a job board displayed soon which would list the job, salary and place ofemployment. 
Financial Aid officers reviews the files of prospective recipients. In order to qualify for a scholarship or any other form ofaid at Saint Mary's, a student must complete the Financial Aid Form by the March 1 deadline. 
The Saint Mary's Financial Aid Application form is also due by March 1. 
Consideration is based equally en demonstrated need as determined from the FAF and academic achievement requiring a minimum ofa 3.0 cumulative grade point average. Eligibility also includes enrollment as a full-time student. 
The amount oftotal scholarship funds varies each year with the change in donations to the College. This includes alumnae con­tributions which range from S25 to 52,000. 
A list of individual scholarships and grants can be obtained through the Office ofStudent Affairs or the Financial Aid office. 
While freshmen are bringing fewer money awards with them to Saint Mary's, alumnae donations are increasing, said Financial Aid DirectorJudith Casey. 
Some of these donors select their recipients, but most are decided by the Finan­cia! Aid oftke. 
A re-evaluation offinancial aid policies is currently underway. "During past years," Casey said, "financial aid was based largely on outstanding achievements, while today the trend is toward a balance ofneed and achieve­ment. Success in obtaining aid is based on the effort ofthe individual to look into the endiess possibilities," Casey said. 
FEDERAL 
Campus Based 
\X'urk/~IU<.I~ ~ational Dirt:ct !-ltudcm Loan 
~uppkmcnlary E<.lucalional Opportunity 
(iranr Pdl (irant 
Non-Campus Ba~ed 
<;uaramce<.l ~tu<.lcm Loan 
Parent Loan h>r l 'n<.h:rgraduate Stuc.knt!'l 
UNIVERSI1Y 
Notre Dame Scholar Holy Cross Scholar 
Athletic Scholar,hip' 

-----·-~---------~-----~· 
·~----------------------------------. 





~jJ()~ts~/~l;~~i~~;~~S~======~===================T=u=es=d=~=,N=o=v=em==be=.r=2=3,=I=9=82===p=ag=e==Io
By lbe Obserz•er and The Associated Press 
Interhall racquetball tournament has 
been postponed indefinitely due to the unavailability of courts, which are currently under repair. Watch for announcements concerning the resumption of the tournament. -The Observer 
Female skiers interested in trying out for the NO women's ski team must call Sue Hull today between 3:30 and 5 p.m. at 7971, to give her your name and phone number. -The Observer. 
NVA football equipment return will be 
held on Monday, Nov. 29 from 3:30 to 5 p.m., and from 6:30 to 7:30 at gate 9 in the stadium. Players not returning equipment then, will be billed for it. -The Observer. 
Hockey captains meetingwill be held on Tues­
day, Nov. 30 at 4:30 in the ACC auditorium. All insurance forms 
should be turned in at this time. -The Observer. 
Club and Graduate league b-ballcaptains 
should pick up their .schedules from the NVA office as soon as pos­sible. -The Observer. 
Men's basketball team will play host to Stonehill on Friday, Nov. 26 at 8 p.m. Saturday afternoon, St. Francis will be the Irish oppone t nt in the ACC. -The Observer. 
Women's b-ball teamwill travel to Chicago to take part in the Orange Crush tournament. UCLA, Georgia, and Rutgers, all Top-Twenty teams, will also participate in the action in the Rosemont Horizon on Friday and Saturday. ,..... The Observer. 
Hockey teamtravels to Bowling Green this weekend for Friday and Saturday games with the CCHA leading Falcons. 
Ohio State tailback Tim Spencer and linebacker Marcus Marek won Midwest Player of the Week honors for their performances in Saturday's 24-14 victory over Big Ten champion Michigan. -AP 

McGee second 
Sax takes NL rookie honors 
NEW YORK (AP) -Second baseman Steve Sax has been named the National League's Rookie of the Year in a close vote to become the fourth consecutive Los Angeles Dodger to win the award, the Baseball Writers Association of America announced yesterday. 
Sax, 22, landed nine first-place votes and a total of 63 points from a panel oftwo writers from each ofthe 12 National League cities. Johnny Ray, Pittsburgh Pirates second baseman, t1nished second with six first-place votes and 57 points. 
Outfielder Willie McGee, one of the St. Louis Cardinals' World Series heroes, finished third with five first· place votes and 39 points. 
The voting was taken at the con­clusion of the regular season. A first-place vote was worth five points, second place three points, and third place one. 
Sax drew four second-place votes and six for third and became the 11th Dodger to win the rookie prize since it was inaugurated in 1947. In 1947 and 1948 there was only one rookie award for both leagues. 
Ray attracted seven second-place votes and six for third. 
Sax, whose emergence allowed the Dodgers to trade veteran Davey Lopes to Oakland during the off­season, batted .282 in the leadoff position, drove in 47 runs and stole 49 bases in 150 games. 
Ray batted .281, knocked in 63 runs and stole 16 bases. He led the league's second basemen in putouts ( 381 ), assists (512 ), total chances (914), errors (21) and games ( 162). 
Both Sax and Ray had .977 fielding percentages. 
Sax, a native ofSacramento, Calif, was the Dodgers' No. 9 choice in the June 1978 free agent draft, spent 48 days on the Los Angeles roster in 1980, taking over at second base for the ailing Lopes. He batted .277 in 31 games. 
He also won the Texas League bat· ting title at San Antonio in 1980 with 
a.346 mark. 
The 5·11, 175-pounder says he has patterned himself after his idol, Pete Rose, who won the NL rookie award in 1963 when with Cincin­nati. 
"I've patterned myself after him," says Sax. "I'm a very aggressive player and try to give 100 percent all the time. I trv to force mistakes, make thing:. happen..." 
McGee batted 296 in 123 games for St. Louis. driving home 56 runs and stealing 24 bases. 

Idle Penn State moves into second in AP poll 
By HERSCHEL NISSENSON 
AssociatedPress 
Penn State moved into second place yesterday in The Associated Press college football poll, setting up a possible national championship meeting with top-rated Georgia in the Sugar BowL 
Although Penn State did not play over the weekend, the Nittany Lions climbed from third place to second when Southern Methodist, last week's runner-up, was held to a 1 7· 1 7 tie by Arkansas. 
Penn State winds up its regular season Friday against fifth-ranked Pitt, while Georgia, also idle last weekend, closes Saturday against Georgia Tech. The two teams will 
meet  in  the Sugar Bowl  on  New  
Year's Night.  
Georgia,  the  nation's  only  

unbeaten-untied major college team, was a near-unanimous choice for No.1 with 52 of 57 first-place votes and 1,133 of a possible 1,140 points. Penn State received two first· place ballots and 1,057 points. 
Nebraska, which meets Oklahoma on Friday for the Big Eight cham­pionship, rose from fourth to third with the other three first-place votes and 1,018 points. 
SMU is fourth with 969 points, followed by Pitt, up from sixth to fifth with 898 points. The Panthers swamped Rutgers 52-6 to earn a Cot­ton Bowl berth. 
Arizona State, idle until Saturday's clash with Arizona, vaulted from eighth to sixth with 817 points. LSU, a runaway 55-21 winner over Florida State in the Orange Bowl sweepstakes, jumped from 12th to seventh with 749 points. 
Rounding out the Top Ten are UCLA, Arkansas and Clemson, while Washington drorped from fifth to 13th after losing to Washington State 24-20 and Florida State fell from seventh to 15th. 

/JIITapl-y
The Top Twenty college football teams in The As· sociated Press poll, with first-place votes in paren­theses. this season·s records and total points. Points based on 20·19·18·17 etc. Notre Dame opponents are ffallcized 
1. Georgia 10-0-0 1111 2. Penn State (2) 9-1·0 1,057 3. Nebraska (3) 9-1-0 1,018 4. So. Methodist 10·0-1 969 
5. Pitt 9-1-0 898 
6. Arizona State 9-1·0 817 7. LSU 8-1·1 817 8. UCLA 9·1·1 706 9. Arkansas 8-1-1 676 10. Clemson 8-1-1 654 11 Oklahoma 8-2-0 551 12. West Virginia 9·2·0 449 13. Washington 9·2·0 444 14. Texas 7-2·0 333 15. Flonda State 8·2·0 323 16. Maryland 8-3·0 253 
17. Southern Cal 7-3-0 245 
18 Ohio State 8-3-0 143 19. Tulsa 10·1·0 129 
20. Michigan 8·3·0 125 
The Observer wtll accept classtfteds Mon­day through Fnday, 10 a.m. to 4 30 p.m. However. classtfieds to appear tn the next issue must be rece1ved by 3 p.m. the busmess day pnor to tnsert1on. All classtfteds must be prepatd. 
etther tn person or through the mat!.
Classifieds 
Are you, like, STAYING OVER QuANTA HEY THERE. BIG "D !flARE 

LOST · N Y ISLANDERS jacket at ONYX CHESS SETS IMPORTED FROM 
Go1ng to or thru EAU CLAIRE, WISC. tor THANKSGIVING? Wish you were In LA YOU CALIFORNIA DAEAMIN ?!!
NOTICES Corby s several weeks ago Call 7781 -MEXICO HAND CARVED ONYX 
Thanx break? Need r~de. Will share usual to watch USC getting their faces HOPEYOUHAVEAFANTASTIC TIME!!!
reward CHESS SETS. IMP CALL 683-9754 3-4
Brent8593 bagged? Well, California is just a state WE AE GOING TO MISS YOU AT
PM ONLY $32 50 BY ORDER ONLY of mindI Get In that frame of existance HOME !!I LOVE. Ll L SiS TYPING AVAILABLE LOST: 1980 Bengal Bouts 1acket Last 
WASHINGTON.D C Need nde -wtll by coming to the K of C's first 
287-4082 seen 1n L yens parkmg lot Name tn mstde Two First Class Round Tnp Atrline Ttckets 
share usual Bnan 1139 CALIFORNIA PARTYI Friday, Nov. 26, MTK & LOVE BOAT, AN AWESOME
lett pocket from South Bend to any place Un1ted fhes starting at 9:30 at the Knights of COMBO!
TYPING Fast. accurate. reasonable · Call232-6193
DESPARATELY NEED AIDE TO ST Columbus hall. B. Y.O. Hot tub; every­rates Close to campus LYNN SAYLOR FOUND. Oce very SICkly maiZe-colored 
LOUIS TO SPEND THANK W/ LONELY thing else provided. Dance the night RIGS, J B JOHNNY L. Congrats on your
233-3423 umbrella and one semt~ugly turquotse 

GRANDMOTHER CALL JOHN 8621 away ... b1g w1n1 We knew the BIG RED could do 11pullover jacket (with your set of keys 1n the Love. yow 2nd lloor LeMans guhls Gmat review classes for Jan 29th exam pocket) All merchandise lound at the I NEED A AIDE TO ST LOUIS PATRICK DORAN Have a super t1me 1n
beg1n Dec 4th Call Stanley Kaplan Progressive Mus1k Club party after y all TICKETS 
W1ll be able to leave anyt1me Wednesday Southern Cal ! Thanksg1v1ng won t be the Cathy, One day DaVId Will know the truth! 
EtJuca!ional Center tor 1nto .• 232-2366 or left them 1n your bopp1n frenzy Call Rob­

W1ll pay usual Please call Maureen at same! Ill make sure of 1! Bes1des. do you want
272·4135 bi at 3479 to claim 

X1272 h1m to be 1n the dark forever? (Well,
I have ONE U.S.C. ticket lor sale. Do maybe 11 wont help after all, he may Still
Typing wanted, fast. accurate. ex­LOST: A small stenng silver rosary 11 you need 1t?
Need nde to and/or lrom MINNEAPOLIS ELLEN S1nce I m up here I dec1ded to be 1n the dark) Me 
penenced, reasonable and close Call found call Juhe at x283-6803 Has a great Call John at 8638 
W1lhng to share dnvtng & expenses Call send you thts note Hope you have a great 
272-4105. deal of sent1mental value 

8813 In M1nn call 722-7365 break! Ill m1ss you LOVE.Franco1s To the handsome Navy man m 325 Cavanaugh -Thanks for all the w1mng,
Typ1ng. Ex-legal secretary 272-5337 50$ Reward For Lost SMC Class A1ng NEED 2 STUDENT OR GA TIX FOR
Long Island pilgrim naeds a ride home RANDY BLUM -HAVE A HAPPY dtning, danctng and romanc1ng last fn
Please Call 5524 KENTUCKY GAME ASK FOR JOHN.
lor Thanksgiving and the Mayflower Is THANKSGIVING IN COLORADO. OUR mght!K
THE WHO AT STEPAN CENTER 1768
too expensive! I can leave Tuesday, THANKSGIVING WILL BE WHEN YOUDECEMMBEA 17 BY SATELITE TICK­
and will share the usual. II you can help COME BACK TO CK & SOUTH BEND. Zeke Who·do·what? You httle alcohOlic
ETS ON SALE WEDNESDAY 2 USC GAs for sale John, 287-3405 
mme out. I'd be thanklull Call Steve at SHIRLEY Thanks lor a fun weekend, '' s a beauty,
FOR RENT 

8626. eh? Have an awesome break The town1e 
CHARLES-TO EACH HIS OWN GO for sale 2 lndtana & Ken Ga slower arena 
EAG fromSMC

SOUTH!HAVE A GOOD BREAK SHEILA best olfer at 1739
RIDERS NEEDED to Moltne llhno1s area Everything that happens Is n1cer w1th youStudent Hous1ng Clean · Safe 
along 1-80 Call Karen 6905 We could be a parade!l When you come QUESTION: What do you get when you
$100/mo 291-1405 Need 2 UCLA GA's. Need to know as home--SOON!! RAH! I LOVE YOU!' -m01 throw a bomb into a kitchen? 
soon as possible! Have 1 student tick­
NEED AIDE TO CLEVELAMD lor T· ANSWER: Linoleum Blownapart
ILOST/FOUND I 

SPACIOUS ONE BEDROOM UNFUR­et to trade plus $$1 Call ELLEN 284·
grvmg Can leava on Wed Call Joame at My dream-come-true, Im head over
NISHED APT GARAGE BSMT 5330 ThanksI heels 1n love w1th you Who says Chegs I shot my lawnmower, but I did notUTILITIES INC EXCEPT ELEC L W W 
HELP' RIDE NEEDED TO CINCINNATI have no fun? Mtlan shoot the Lawnboy ManIllS BEND 240 00 A MONTH PLUS
LOST A Down Jacket at the Beaux Arts AREA TOMORROW' CALL SUSAN
DEPOSIT 287-5535 -­
Ball It IS tan w1th blue sleeves It IS brand X1759 Will the persons who left· new If taken or found. please return to 243 
One pair of pants-large. 

PERSONALS
2-BED HAPPY BIRTHDAY RABBITIII 
Stanford (8670.) and no quest1ons Will be NEED AIDE TO CLEVELAND CAN 
One vtnyiJacket·rtpped.
Apt neat a"

asked LEAVE WED AFTERNOON CALL One carroi·Jubo.
payed,apphances,hardwood 

LOUIS AT 1547 THAN One eamng-ugly, 
floors,$250 mo 123 s Eddy 233-6441 TO EVERYONE WHO MADE THE LOOK OUT NO AND SMC 
LOST· ONE GOLD MEN'S CHAIN One vtrtue·lost,
NUCLEAR MUSIK PARTY AT THE K. CHEAP SHOT RETURNSI 
M1ght have been lost 1n the ACC on Mon­INCREDIBLY BEAUTIFUL WOMAN One liquor bottle-empty, day 11/15 Please call Dav1d at x6931 NEEDS RIDE TO CINCINNATI. HURRY 
OF C. ON FRIDAY NIGHT SUCH A IliON WSND AM64111 
ktncUy clatm tht:m debns

BLAST......
AND CALL BEFORE IT'S TOO LATE 
Sincerely, Your Uncle Ryan thanks and to everyone who pa1d your

lnsh Tweed Cap--Gray Lost 11·10· WANTED ASK FOR KAREN AT 5494 (SMC! BEG p.s. Un .claimed nems will be raffled offat
two dollars to enter the dance and would DOES SHE LIKE LETTUCE AND tCE
82, possibly 1n the library Call8350·· ask WELL. AND PERHAPS YOU MAY BE 
a gala bazaar. 

now w1sh to 101n. contact Aobb1 (3479) or CREAM? OF COURSE SHE DOE~­
for M1ke Thanks. PREVILIGED! SHE CAN LEAVE 
Barney Rebel (8489) tor 1ntormali0n SHE'S OUR RABBIT AND SHE LIVESANYTIME 
AEALL Y NEED AIDE TO CENTRAL Or, II you just want to join, period, 1ust IN BPI HAPPY BIRTHDAY LAPINIIIIIIIII
REVvARD!!! Lost at Penn State Pep rally, Hello Big Apple I 
NEW YORK (ALBANY. UTICA. call the above numbers and we II do our
one pair ot GORILLA COSTUME Ride needed to BUFFALOIIIIIII Goodbye Midwestern Mold. 
SYRACUSE FOR XMAS BREAK---WILL best to f1ll you tn Amen Pratse God
GLOVES. If found. call8125 Call PAUL at 11541111111111111 

SHARE USUAL ---CALL CHRIS AT 8573 Salvat1on OR 3510 ANYTIME 
•

ONE TIRE JACK WITH THE NAME MAR­I m so contused GARET ON IT. CALL 288-0725 SURPRISE JAS. FELIZ CUMPLEANOS! MY DEAR RABBIT. 
AIDE NEEDED TO NYC FOR XMAS 

Although I may have gone punk, I Still How can two antmals be so lucky? I st1ll
FOR SALE=oJ 
I 
BREAK-WILL SHARE USUAL--CALL
Lost: A Bulova. Gold rimmed Watch It remembered ' Have a happy day. but Dear Montca, Ltsa, and the rest of Lewts can t ftgure tl out All I know ts that I m so 
CHRIS AT 85730A 3510 ANYTIME 

has a scratch mark on the face plate next don t get too exc1ted I w1sh I could 4-N. Too bad the game wasnl as good as happy the Rabbit came hopp1ng down my to the numeral mne Lost on Stepan Fteld Couches, $30 & up; Chairs, $15 & up. partake. but I d probably drawn 1f I tned the spaghetti, 1t was S dehctous!!! It was tra1l! I hope 1ts lUSt the first of many more I 
Help' kneed lift from Mpls tor TG break $$

I 
on 11/17/82 atternoon. It found please Call Mrs. Cooper at 272-3004 alter 12 Well, th1s p1ano teacher has to stop bab· even worth the watt Thanks tons agatn can share wtth you call George at 1418 bhng Bye. LOVE,ME YOUR LOVING RACCOON 
Dave 3039 

noon.Free delivery to dorm. Stanford 2N-S, Wheels, and Gregg I 11pm [~ 
---------------------~------------­
The Observer 
In L.A. debut 
Raiders defeat Chargers, 28-24 
LOS A:\( .ELf~ (Al' •-I'rank Haw· the s~-uay players' strike. The other to Todd Christensen on a fourth­kin~ sla~hed one r:~rd for a touch­other 26 teams played Sunday. and-goal play just .;6 st·conds before down with '>."i 1 remaining la~t night, Los Angeles won despite the fact halftime. The TD was set up by Ted capping a Lo~ Angele~ nmu:back that San Diego quarterback Dan Hendricks' recovery .of a Muncit: from a 2-1-0 deficit. and giving the Fouts passed for more than :1,00 fumble at the San Diego 1"'· Raider~ a 2H-2-l :\,uional Football yards for the 26th time in his 1 0-year Rookie tailhack Marcus Allen. League victon· on:r the San Diego NFL career, equaling the record of returning to the site of many of his Chargers. johnny I.Jnitas. greatest games while playing college 
The Raider~ thus madt· a succt:ss­Fouts finished with 25 comple­ball at Southern Cal, scored twice in ful regular-season home dehut at the tion~ in 42 attempts for 357 yards. the third period on runs ofthree-and Los Angeles Coliseum despite being The Chargers took their 2-i-0 lead six-yards to cut the deficit to 2+21. thoroughly outplayed for most of on a 19-yard field goal by Rolf the first half. A superior Court jury Benirschke and a 29-yard touch­A missed 3.;-yard field goal hy decided last May that the team had down pass from Fouts to Dwight Benirschke preceded the Raiders' the right to move from Oakland to 80-yard drive for the winning touch­
Scales in the first quarter and two­Los Angcle~. which it did during the and one-yard TO runs by Chuck down. summer. Muncie in the second period. The Chargers then marched to the The Raiders, 3-0, and the Char­The Raiders began their come­Los Angeles 18, but the drive ended gers, 1·2, were the tlnal two NFL back by scoring on a one-yard TO when \'ann McElroy intercepted a teams to return to action following pass from quarterback Jim Plunkett Fouts pass in the end zone. 
-·--·-·-·--------------------­
Tuesday, November 23, 1982 page 11 



--~--~~ ~~~ ~-----­

-----------------------------·----------------­The Observer Sports Special-Irish vs. USC Tuesday, November 23, 1982-page 12 
Frustrated, but not bitter 
Carter closes book on a once-promising 
Impossible dream may come true 
Four years of hard work pay off for O'Hara, who returns home to take on USC 
By DONNA WITZLEBEN But obviously Irish Coach Gerry policy of one quarterback recruit Sports Writer Faust must have had confidence in per year helped thin out the crowd, O'Hara, despite his Penn State per­making O'Hara's rise to the top pos­
With 8:02 left in the first half last formance, to have played him in a sible. 
O'Hara will receive his final Saturday,Jim O'Hara went in for Ken game where a bowl bid was at stake. 

opportunity for the Irish on Satur­Karcher at quarterback to face the O'Hara, too, has confidence in him­day, as he is slated to start against thesoaring Air Force Falcons, who had selfand his abilities as a quarterback, Trojans of USC. If Kiel's injuryamassed a 1 7-0 lead in the game. which isn't surprising considering doesn't heal, O'Hara will be leadingAfter four long, hard years with that for four years he has been the Irish in their la~t contest of thethe Irish, three as a walk-on and only competing in practices against the 1982 season.

this year on a scholarship, O'Hara premier players in America finally had his big chance. In a game "I always thought that I could "This game will be extra-special where taking advantage of every op­play, but there just always seemed to for us seniors, since it will be our last 
portunity is vital, O'Hara did just he somebody just as good as me or game,"says O'Hara "It will be even that -he finished 14-of-2 3 for 216 better around," states O'Hara can­more special to me because I grew yards and no interceptions. He also didly. "Now I'm the oldest ~n the up in the llSC area and playing in a quarteredbacked the Irish to all of 
squad and I've been around the lon­NO-USC game is something I've al­their 17 points of the day, a 38-yard 
gest. The timing just happened to be ways wanted to do." field goal and two touchdown passes right for me. It's unfortunate for (a 28-yarder to Larry Moriarty and a With lJSC hungry, as usual, to beat
Blair ( Kiel, who is sidelined with a 
5 5-yarder toJoe Howard). the Irish. and wanting to go out with
shoulder injury), but I really ap­
"I'm happy that I had the oppor­a bang in its last TV appearance for
preciate the opportunity to play." tunity to play," says the Cypress, two years \due to the stipulations of
O'Hara, an all-county selection Calif., native, "but obviously I didn't while in high school, could have had its NCAA probation), O'Hara and the do enough, because we still lost." better opportunities to play else­Irish will have their hands fulL 
O'Hara's previous experience had where, as he received football But after hanging on ~o long to seebeen in last year's LSU game and in scholarship offers from a few west action in the fourth quarter of histhis year's game with Navy. His most coast schools. But he turned them all 
career, O'Hara believe~ in what can 

recent appearance before Air Force down and opted for Notre Dame, happen 111 the dying moments of a was in the clash with Penn State, partially because going away from game, t:arcer and even a sea'i<m. 
when he requested to be put into home was an important considera­the contest in the fourth quarter. tion for him. "USC seems to me to be the best 
"It was just a natural reaction," Upon his arrival at Notre Dame, team in the country a~ far as sheer recalls the senior marketing major. O'Hara was greeted by a bountiful talent goes," O'Hara says. "But I have "We weren't moving and I thought bevy of scholarshipped quarter­confidence that when we play our that I could do something to get us backs who were brought here under best, we are the best and we can going. I wanted to help out." former coach Dan Devine. Devine win." Surely, Jim O'Hara will be
John Robinson 
However, after one series with three always brought in as many quarter­doing his best on Saturday. After all, incomplete passes, O'Hara was backs as he could each year, but it will his golden opportunity -and taken out. when Faust took over, his new also hi!> Jao;t one. 
career that somehow went sour 
By LOUIE SOMOGYI 
Sports Writer 
The scene was the Notre Dame locker room two years ago at Spartan Stadium after Notre Dame had rallied from a 9-0 deficit to defeat Michigan State, 26-21. 
Writers congregated around the cramped quarters of Notre Dame's stocky sophomore tailback, Phil Carter. Uttle doubt, they may have been thinking, that man was going to be one ofthe top contenders for the Heisman Trophy -if not the winner of it ­by his senior year. Heck, the way he's going he might be the first sophomore ever to earn the prize. 
After opening the 1980 season with a slashing, smashing 142­yar t d effort against a strong Purdue team on national television, Carter next rocked the the Michigan Wolverines for 103 yards and two crucial touchdowns in the memorable 29-27 triumph. 
Now after his monster-mash 254-yard rushing performance on 40 carries against the Spartans -just one yard short of Vagas Ferguson's single-game record -the sky was the limit for the man that had to replace the graduated Ferguson. 
"No, I had no idea I was that close to the record," said the ever-cheerful and smiling Carter after the game. "But that's OK. I'm only a sophomore. I've got a lot more time (to break the record)." 
Going into his final 60 minutes of football action for Notre Dame this Saturday, however, the senior Carter is hardly the buzz of the campus anymore. 
The only broken record that Carter ever seems to be as­sociated with now by fans and the press is the offensive attack that Notre Dame people have come to know in the last three years as "Carter left, Carter right, Carter up the middle." 
The new kid in town, in the person ofAllen Pinkett, is now the mainstay ofthe backfield. In comparison, Carter seems to be that one step slower, less flashy and less explosive than Pinkett, who has at times generated more electricity in football stadiums this year than Musco's mobile lighting units. 
In the last six games, meanwhile, Carter has picked up only 21 I yards on 48 carries. Although he still leads the team in rushing with 633 yards, he is averaging only 3.9 yards every time he totes the ball, and has scored only two touchdowns. 
The Heisman Trophy, once a realistic dream, is now but a long, faded-out memory. like this year's football team, Carter's career closes with only pleasant memories of what once was, and sad frustrations ofperhaps what could have been. 
"In all my years of football, I've never been that embarrased," recalls Carter of the Air Force loss. "There is just no way that we should have lost that game." 
There have been other frustrations for the Tacoma, Wash., native. An injury in that same Michigan State game led him to miss four games in a row in 1980 right at the peak ofhis career. And, of course, the Dan Devine-Gerry Faust transition has lent him a change in his style of running. 

"Devine's and Faust's systems are completely different," says Carter, "With Devine it was just line it up and run at them. We had about two or three set plays for an entire game. With Coach Faust we have several running plays planned a game. 
"I was more suited to Devine's system. He was the one that recruited me and he knew what kind ofrunning back he wanted for his system. Someone like Allen Pinkett, who Faust recruited, and Greg Bell (whom he didn't) are more suited to Faust's system ofhaving speed to the outside. I'm most effective on the off-tackle plays." 
For that very reason, don't sell Carter short on having an ef­fective career in the National Football League -if he gets drafted. 
"I definetely want to give the NFL a try," says Carter. "You don't see too many long runs in the pros. They usually want the back that can get that four, five, six yards on a carry. I think I could do all right in such a situation." 
While frustration has been evident in Carter's career, bitter­ness has not. 
''I'm happy with some of the things I've done and I've been happy with Notre Dame," reflects the two-year tri-captain. "I don't think a person is ever really happy though, or can ap­preciate something until he retires from it." 
Whether he has been happy or sad, however, Carter has always maintained his class of keeping a low profile and being a team man. For example, a feature that was supposed to be run on Car­ter by The Observer two years ago was scrapped when Carter politely asked not to have it run, since he felt he was receiving too much ink already. 
Today, he still greets feature articles with a smile and a quiet, sincere "could you find someone more deserving" inquiry. 
While his on-the-field performance has declined, his character as a person never has. Defensive line coach Greg Blache, who coached the running backs last year, described last year his own first impressions ofNo.22. 
"He's one of those people that jumps above everyone else in a crowd," praised Blache. "He's just a winner and he'll give whatever it takes to win." 
Indeed, whether it's been being the blockingfullback his fresh­man year for Vagas Ferguson, or making heroic touchdown dives for the winning score as he did against Alabama two years ago, or rushing for over 100 yards 11 times in his Notre Dame career, or gaining 2,327 career yards (placing him fourth on the all-time Notre Dame list, only 15 yards behind George Gipp), or yes, even just helping set-up a flea-flicker perfectly as he did against Pitts­burgh this year, Carter has given whatever it has taken to help Notre Dame to victory. 
And that's more important than any individual records he has or has not set at Notre Dame. 
Phil Carter 


-~~--~--~-,----~ 
The Observer Sports Special-Irish vs. USC Tuesday, November 23, 1982 page 13 
Another great Browner 
Ross' brother passed up Notre Dame to achieve stardom in Tinseltown 
By TIM TESSALONE linebacker at Southwest High in Atla•lta, but was moved to 
USC Sports Info Dept. 

cornerback for his first three years. "I didn't even know how to back pedal when I cam LOS ANGELES -In USC football circles, the criterion of 
here," Browner said. "But guys like Ronnie Lott and Dennis excellence is quite high. 
Smith took the time to work with me." Tailbacks are measured against the likes of0.). Simpson 
A reserve as a freshman (he started in the Rose Bowl for or Marcus Allen, and offensive linemen are compared to 
the injured]effFisher), Browner moved into the lineup as a players like Ron Yary or Anthony Munoz. 
sophomore and recorded 69 tackles, nine pass deflections, "Around here," says USC football coach John Robinson, 
two fumble recoveries, an interception and four kickoff "we use Ronnie Lott as our standard ofexcellence for the 
returns for a 24.0 average.secondary. Right now, Joey Browner is certainly perform­
Last year, he earned second team All Pac-10 and ing at that level. He's playing absolutely great football." 
honorable mention AP All-America honors, with 74 Lott, a 1980 first team All-America safety at USC, went on tackles, 16 pass break-ups, three interceptions and 17 punt to be a first round draft pick for the San Francisco 49ers and returns. earned All-Pro acclaim as a rookie. This spring, he was switched to safety because, says Browner, USC's senior free safety, could be on his way to Robinson, "of his great range and ability to play the ball in a similar career. the air." 
"He's just getting better and better, and is playing like an "It's given me more freedom," says Joey. ''I'm the quar­All-American," says USC secondary coach Nate Shaw, who terback of the secondary. I can roar. and, since everything was a Trojan All-American defensive back himself in 1966. develops in front of me and I can tell more or less where "Like Ronnie Lott, Joey is the type of player that you can't the ball is going, I can take more chances than I could at run or pass away from. He'll end up where the ball is, no cornerback. matter where it goes." "Actually, either position is fine with me." 
A three-year starter, Browner has been a key to the Returning kicks and punts is also getting his okay. stingy play ofthe Trojan defense in 1982. USC, 7-3 entering 
"I had never returned a punt in my life until last year," he

its season finale against Notre Dame here Saturday, has 
said. "It was a new experience, trial and error. I was just

posted four defensive shutouts this year: 12-0 at Oklahoma 
concentrating on catching the ball and getting a couple of

(snapping an NCAA-record 181-game OU scoring streak 
yards. Now I know what to look for and how to pick holes."

and limiting the Sooners to 43 yards rushing), 38-7 against 

\ He's perfectly suited for the task, says USC special teams
I. Oregon (the Duck touchdown came on a blocked punt), 
coach Gil Haskell.

38-0 over Oregon State and 42-0 against California two 
"'Joey is big (6-3, 205 ), strong and deceptively fast ( 4.5\ . weeks ago. 
in the 40 )," says Haskell, "and that makes him very hard to

The Trojans rank eighth in the nation in scoring defense 
tackle."

(giving up just 13.0 points per game) and seventh in total defense (permitting only 252.5 yards per game). In his career, he's averaging 10.4 yards on punt returns,
( \ \. 

"Joey makes a big play for us ever game," notes Shaw. 23.1 on kickoff returns and 19.3 on interception returns.
\ 

"We are expecting that from him now, just like we did with It figures joey would be a fine football player. Acheck of Lott." his family tree shows that he's the fourth of six football­To wit: 
playing Browners. 


•In USC's opening loss to Florida, Browner saved several Ross won the 1976 Outland Trophy and 1977 Lombardi TDs by running down speedy Gator receivers who had Award as a Notre Dame defensive end (he's now with the
~-shaken loose. "Any other safety wouldn't have caught up to Cincinnati Bengals); Jim started three years at defensive them," says Shaw. back for the Irish; Willard played fullback for Notre Dame 
•Joey broke open USC's game with Indiana (a 28-7 win) 
and Utah State; Keith, a junior, starts at outside linebacker
Joey Browner 

by setting up the Trojans' second score with a 32-yard punt 
'for USC; and 305-pound Gerald is a freshman defensive return to the Hoosier 22 and then ran back another punt 54 
lineman at Georgia.yards into the end zone. He also had a 50-yard non-scoring "My family is really tight," Joey says. "Before my father 
kickoff return. Sports Illustrated and the Pac-1 0 named
******************************** died when I was 17, he told us to look out for one another."
* ' * 
him their Defensive Player of the Week for his perfor­Right now, his mother, Geraldine, is onjoey's mind. Shemance.
* * 
has just recovered from an illness that left her bedridden

: Special designed and : 
•In Oklahoma, Browner had 10 tackles and intercepted 
briefly back home in Atlanta.

a Kelly Phelps pass on the USC 16 as the Sooners were•* * driving in the second quarter. He returned it 17 yar .ds, and a
"Lately, I've been playing hard for her," says Joey,: edited by : the Trojans sprang a 67-yard flanker reverse scoring pass public administration major. "It pleases me to know that 
on the next play. she smiles when she knows I'm playing.
• * 
: CHRIS NEEDLES : 
•On the first play from scrimmage against Oregon, Joey "I call her after every game to let her know how Idid and* * picked otfa pass and returned it 34 yards for a TO. USC was to tell her I'm all right. It's funny, but she always knows if in command immediately. I'm hurt, even before I tell her."• * And the list goes on and on. Lately, though, Browner's calls home have been full of 
Not bad for a guy who came to USC as a prep All-America nothing but good news.
******************************** 
The Game
The Statistics 
GAME: Fighting Irish vs. Southern California Trojans TEAM STAnsnCS NO oPP RUSHING G NO YOS AVG TO LG 
SITE: Los Angeles Coliseum, (92,000) TIME: 3:50p.m. EST Saturday, Nov. 27, 1982 
TOTAL OFFENSE YARDS 3248 2816 P Carter 10 160 633 40 2 25 
TV-RADIO:
Total Plays 701 696 Pinkett 9 96 489 5.1 5 76 
CBS National Telecast

Yards per Play 46 400 Monarty 9 81 481 59 4 37 
Yards per Game 324 8 281.6 Bell 2 24 123 51 1 19 
Lindsey Nelson and Pat Haden PENALTIES-YARDS 60-517 34-297 Brooks 10 28 90 32 0 10 FUMBLES-LOST 15-7 26-12 Morns 6 3 93 0 24
28 Metrosports/ESPN Replay Network 
TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 171 163 Howard 10 18 18 0 0 18 
By Rush1ng 97 Sweeney 10 10 0 Harry Kalas and George Connor
58 10 By Pass1ng 69 90 C Sm1th 10 4 40 0 0 10 4 10 a.m. Sunday WNDU-TV (Ch. 16) By Penalty 5 15 Flemons 1 -1 0 0 -1
·1 

(6-3-1)
THIRD DOWNS-CONV 157-49 154-47 Pearcy 9 1 -11 ·11 0 0 ·11 
Notre Dame-Mutual Radio Network

Percentage 312 305 OHara -21 -7 0 -1
3 3 0 Tony Roberts and AI Wester
POSSESSION TIME 315"42 28418 K1el 10 37 -40 ·1 1 1 12 Minutes per Game 31:34 WNDU-AM 1500 and nationwide
28:26 Karcher 10 16 -75 -4 7 0 0 

PASSING G NO CO PCT INT YOS TO 
NOTREOAME 10 453 1718 38 13 76 OPPONENTS 10 387 996 26 7 55 

K1e1 10 184 100 543 81072 3 SERIES: Notre Dame 27, USC 22,4 ties Karcher 10 37 16 432 1 228 1 LAST MEETING: October 24, 1981, at Notre Dame Stadium
KICKOFF RET NO YOS AVG TO LG 

(7-3)
OHara 3 27 15 556 0 230 2 USC 14, Notre Dame 7 
Pinkett 12 334 27.8 1 93 RANKINGS: (AP) USC 17th, Notre Dame unranked NO 10 248 131 528 91530 6 
495 Howard 5 111 22.2 0 30 TICKETS: Available; about 80,000 expected
OPP 10 309 153 161820 7 
Bell 3 50 16.7 0 18 Ballage 2 51 25 5 0 37 Stone 2 31 155 0 16

RECEIVING G NO YOS AVG TO LG 
P Carter 18 18 0 0 18 Hunter 0 0 0 0

Hunter 10 35 416 11 9 0 25 

The Schedule
Howard 10 26 482 18 5 2 55 26 595 22.9 1 93Monarty 9 17 171 101 2 30 NOTAEOAME oPPONENTS 35 650 18 6 0 38 
NOTREDAMl. SOUTHERN CAL
P Carter 10 10 69 69 0 25 
Haywood 8 9 94 10 4 0 19 
SEPT. 18 beat MICHIGAN. 2.H'"' SEPT. 11 lost to Florida, 11.9 P1nkett 9 8 94 94 0 17 
SEPT 25 beat PURDUE, 28-14 SEPT. 18 beat INDIANA, 28-7 
INT RET NO YOS AVG TO LGPearc~ 9 8 64 80 0 15 

OCT. 3 beat Michigan St., 11-3 SEPT. 25 beat Oklahoma, 12-0
Brooks 10 7 43 61 0 13 Duerson 6 104 17 3 0 48 
OCT. 9 beat MIAMI, 16-14 OCT. 2 beat OREGON, 38-7
Jackson 8 3 47 15 7 0 23 Zavagmn 3 35 11 7 0 16 
OCT 16lost to ARIZONA, 16-13 OCT. 16 beat Stanford, 41-21
Bell 2 3 20 67 0 7 Johnson 2 56 28.0 0 38C Sm1th 10 2 11 55 2 8 
OCT. 23 tied Oregon, 13-13 OCT. 23 beat OREGON ST., 38-0
Brown 2 3 1 5 0 3Favor~e 5 17 17 0 0 17 

OCT. 30 beat Navy, 27-10 OCT. 30 lost to Arizona St., 17-10
Toran 2 0 00 0 0Stone 8 14 14 0 0 14 Sp1elmaker 4 4.0 0 4 

NOV. 6 beat Pittsburgh, 31-16 Nov. 6 beat CALIFORNIA. 42-0
Sweeney 10 7 70 0 7 
NOV. 13 bea~ Arizona, 48-41NOV. 13 lost to PENN STATE, 24-14 

NOTAEOAME 16 202 12 6 0 48NOTREOAME 10 131 1549 11 8 6 55 

NOV. 20 lost to Air Force, 30-17 NOV. 20 lost to UCLA, 20-19
0.39
oPPONENTS 9 54 6.0

OPPONENTS 10 153 1820 11 9 7 79 
NOV. 27 at Southern Cal NOV. 27 vs. NOTRE DAME 
---~-----­

The Observer Tuesday, November 23, 1982-page 14 
Loses 20 scholarships 
Clemson assessed penalties 


MISSION, Kan. (AP)-The NCAA Clemson, which capped an socked Clemson with one of the unbeaten season last January by toughest football probations ever beating Nebraska 22-15 in the levied yesterday imposing a two­Orange Bowl and winning the na­year ban on television and tional championship, will be banned postseason appearances and strip­from television during the 1983 and ping the 1981 national champions of 1984 seasons. 20 football scholarships. Citing a "large number ofserious" 
An NCAA official said no other recruiting violations, the Infractions school ever had been penalized Committee ruled that the Tigers more than 10 scholarships. cannot play in bowl games following 
"Coaches have been urging the this season and next season. Committee on Infractions to make Clemson, 8-1-1 and 5-0 in Atlantic greater use of the reduction in Coast Conference competition this 
· grants, since they believe it's a more year, will be limited to 20 football effective penalty than the ban on scholarships, rather than the normal television or bowl games," David limit of 30, during each of the next Berst, director ofthe NCAA enforce­two years. ment Department, told The As­The penalties, announced last sociatedPress. night in a release from the NCAA's national headquarters, included sanctions that the universiry had levied gainst two unidentified assis­tant coaches and four other unnamed indiiduals. 
The NCAA cited violations dating from 1977 to 1982, which included giving players automobiles, televi­sion sets, clothing, "substantial" sums ofcash and other gifts. In addi­tion, the NCAA said Clemson had awarded scholarships to friends and relatives of recruits and paid telephone bills of recruits' families. 
In one case, the NCAA said: "In April, 1980, the head football coach, director of athletics and dean ofstu­dent affairs arranged for the univer­sity to pay the cost ofa dental bill on behalfofa student-athlete." 
"Due to the large number and serious nature of the violations in this case, the committee believed that institutional sanctions related to appearances on television and in postseason football games were "appropriate," ,1 Ian Wright, chair­man of the Infractions Committee, said in the release . 
. Trot 
continuedfrompage I6 
we hope tO reach 125 to 150 run­
ners. 
"It's a community event. To have students side-by-side with the ad­minstration -there was even someone here from the Board of Regents -creates a lot of com­raderie." 
Dillon pointed out that some of 
the notables taking part in the race 
included college vice president and 
dean of faculty Bill Hickey, vice 
president of college relations Larry 
Durance, and Sr. Eva Mary Hooker, 
the associate dean offaculty. 
First-place finishers in each 
category received a plaque -and a 
13-pound turkey. Second-and third­
piace finishers also were given 
plaques, while every participant 
received a cenificate. 
"When I started this a year and a 
half ago," said Dillon, "some told me 
that it would never work, because 
none of these had ever succeeded 
before. But with a lot of publicity, 
we've been able to make this a 
success." 
• • . Belles 
continuedfrom page I6 
Saint Mary's also received some bad news when it was learned that Van Ort may miss the next two weeks due to injury to her hand suf­fered in a collision. The Belles, who only had eight people dressed for the game, will probably start Trisha Nolan, who totaled nine points against Kalamazoo. 
The Belles seek their first victory tonight, as they travel to Siena Heights College in southern Michi­gan. 
Kalamazoo sophomore Laura Pawloski, who is considering transferring to Saint Mary's for her final two years, led all scorers with 22 points on eight baskets and six­for-eight at the charity stripe. 

l f 
Ihe~er======================================== 
T0 d~y==============T=u=e=sd=a=y='=N=o=v=e=m=b=e=r=2=3='=1=9=R=2==p=a=g=e=l
Doonesbury 
Garry Trudeau 
Jeb Cashin 
Photius 

The Daily Crossword 

©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 

I CI\N R£ LA.Tf 
TO 'fOU[( 
Ffflii'JqS. ITSAI.~ TtJa:~Y ? 
i: 
"' 
ACROSS 28 Fall behind 1 Rebekah's 29 Ogden the son poet 5 Discharges 33 -de Leon 10 Vaccine 34 Ancient 
man Egyptian 14 Conceited 35 School org. 15 Philo or 36 Readily 
Cyrus 40 Fair grade 16 Nastase 41 Ms. Barrett 17 Exceedingly 42 Certain 
trifling branch 
amount 43 Makes a 20 Negative mistake 21 -Domini 45 Frosted 22 Printing 46 Marked, as 
men exams 23 Chest of 47 Spelunker's 
old joy 24 Leg joint 49 Gives out 25 Disinclined money
Monday's Solution 

11/23/82 

TH£ OIJL't BRt:AI\ I'Ll I-lAVE fHIS 
"ffiA.NKSf:tiVIN~ Wtu.. Sf IN MY NfCK.
I iu~Y. 

Campus 
• 3 p.m. -Paper Session Ill, "Stravinsky's 
'fortunate continuity' and 'legitimate accidents,' 1882·1982," William Austin, Cornell University, "Sonata Form in Stravinsky," Joseph Straus. Univer­sity of Wisconsin, Annenberg Auditorium. 
•4:30 
p.m. -Biology Seminar, "Genetics of Speciation in Aedine Mosquitoes," Dr. K.S. Rai, ND, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium. 

•5 
p.m. -Concert, Music of Stravinsky, Univer­sity of Notre Dame Chorale, Annenberg Auditorium. 

•7 
p.m. -Lecture, "Who is Doing What to Whom? (The Vanishing Art of Vector Incrimina­tion in Tropical Medicine," Prof. George G. Craig, Jr., Sponsored by ND College of Science, Library Auditorium. 

•7 
p.m. -Film, "Breathless," Annenberg Auditorium. 

•8, 
and 10 p.m.-Film, "It Happened One Night," Chautaqua Coffeehouse, ::.ponsored by NDSU. 

•9 
p.m. -Film, "Dressed to Kill," Annenberg Auditorium. 

•10 
p.m. -Call-in Talk Show, "SpeakinJ of Sports," Will Hare WSND-AM 64 


T.V. Tonight 
! 
6:00p.m. 6:30p.m. 
7:00p.m. 
7:30 
8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. !O:OOp.m. 
llp.m. 
11:30p.m. 
16 NewsCenter 16 
28 Newswatch 28 
34 5·2·1 Contact 
16 NBC Nightly News 
22 CBS News 
28 ABC WOTid News Tonight 
34 Making It Count 16 M0A0S0H 
22 Laverne & Shirley 28 joker's Wild 
34 The MacNeiVLchrer Report 
16 Allin The Family 
22 Family Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 
34 Straight Talk 16 Father Murhpy 22 Bring 'Em Back Alive 
28 Happy Days 
34 Nova 
28 Laverne and Shirley 
16 Gavilan 
22 CBS Tuesday Night Movie 
28 Three's Company 
34 MYSTERY! 
28 9To 5 
16 St. Elsewhere 
28 Hart to Hart 
34 Sound Festival 
16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 
34 Dick Cavett Show 
16 Tonight Sbow 
22 Quincy & McMillan & Wife 
28 ABC News Nightline 


.. 

50 Fuel hydrocarbon 53 Large sport 
fish 54-poetica 57 Very small 
amount 60 An Evans 61 Muslin 
model 62 Apiarist's 
concern 63 Nancy or Ed 64 Possess&Q 65 Again 
DOWN 1 Novelist Hunter 2 Actress 
Thompson 3 Breezy 4 Numero­5 Show 6 Divine food 7 "-each 
life ... " 8 Relative of tut 9 Looking 
after 10 Disgust 11 Aweather's 
opposite 12 Ananias, for one 13 Berry and namesakes 18 Zoroastrian 
19 "-Day at 
a Time" 23 Pert 24 Fraternity 
letter 25 Speedily 26 November 
VIP 27 Inscribe 28 Nuts 30 Plant 
infester 31 Barret part 32 Loathed 34 Italian 
philosopher 37 Impelled toward 38 Donor's 
remark 39 Woelsmel 44 Land and sea 46 Clad 48 Cuckoo 49 English 
dramatist of yore 
50 Old Norse collection of poems 
51 Trolley 52 Pit 53 Gab 54 Related 55 Dream: Fr. 56 Meatdlsh 58 Haul 59 Half a 
dance 
... ......... ... . . ........... . ...... .. .. u 
• Student Union concerts ts • r '1ThC2 "otrC2 Dame2 Stode2nt Union pre2se2nts
. ..... 
• Clark GABLE and ClaudC2ttC2 COLBERT 
c 

in a satellite presentation : C in oftheTorontoConcert : c''IT HAPPEtiED OtiE tiiCiHt•• 
Dec. 17,1982 IO:oo pm • Theclassic--6 ficademy fiwards C 
Stepan Center : C Bent Actor. BC2st ActrC2ss. BC2st MoviC2 C :*Special Student Price $4.00 non-student SG.oo : Tuvsda, "ovvmbvr 23 8:00 10:00 C : Tickets on sale at Lafortune : C in Chautauqua Ballroom 51 : Tickets on sale at Lafortune Student Cfr t. ·r starting Nov. 24 • (2nd Floor LaFortunC2) 
······························~········ ·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~· 


Tuesday, November 23, 1982-page 16
~norts 
--~-~~--~--~---~~ ·­
With ten new faces 

,'I 
, Wrestlers begin new-season
' 
ByJEFF BLUMB Moloney. "The only match John O'Connor Award for leadership, 
I I Sports Writer lost was to the guy named Outstand­should fill the 142 lb. slot admirably ing Wrestler of the Tournament," in the future. Bolstered by ten new recruits, the boasted Bruno. "For a freshman that To give the Irish added versatility, '82-'83 version of the Notre Dame is phenomenal, butJohn has great in­two wrestlers on the roster, wrestling team hopes to improve tensity and drive." ).Carnesale and sophomore Phil upon last year's 15-2-1 record-Both Hargreaves and Shupe are Baty both can wrestle at either 167
, ~ 
the best record in Irish wrestling his­freshmen, but that hasn't stopped or 177, with competitive strategy tory. With only two seniors lost to Shupe from becoming a master of a dictating their placement. BatyI graduation, this year's team should hip lock known as "the whizzer." broke the Irish record for most wins , be up to the task. "Jeff literally whizzered his way in a season last year as a freshman, 
I 
"I think we can expect repetition through the tournament," chuckled despite being plagued by injuries. or better," says third-year Irish Bruno. Typical of what the future ofIrish Coach Brother joseph Bruno, C.S.C. Although the freshmen are wrestling holds, new recruits Eric 
"The big, and only, catch involved is perfoming well, one can not forget Crown and Glenn Gogas are waging that the schedule is tougher and lon­the contributions of the upperclas­a fierce battle at I 18, although ger this year." smen. In addition to his title in the Gogas has yet to make the weight. 
Indeed the schedule is longer this Autumn Invitational, Fisher finished Similiarly, freshman Luke DiSabato year, as the Irish have already par­fourth the previous weekend in the has already made a big contribution ticipated in two tournaments, the Michigan State Invitational. as a replacement for the injured most recent being the Michiana Doug Skinner, the team's only Heintzelman. Autumn Invitational last Saturday. senior, also finished fourth in the It is clear that the outcome of the 
The team as a whole placed Michigan tourney at 150 lb. '82-'83 wrestling lies in the hands of fourth, with five Irish grapplers "Fisher and Skinner are really the both the old and the new. Yet Bruno taking individual honors. Junior only two college veterans," com­has quite a hit of confidence in the Mark Fisher grabbed the top spot in mented Bruno. "And we always t ex­freshmen. the 126 lb. weight class. Niles, Mich. pect the veterans to do well." "One thing for sure," said Bruno. native John Hargreaves took third at L. Carnesale finished fifth at "A lack ofcollegiate experience will 142, with Louis Carnsesale and Jeff Michigan State, and fourth in the not intimidate our strong crop of Shupe taking fourth at 158 and 177 Michiana Invitational. Two other freshmen." respectively. sophomores, Moloney and Joe At present, the team's chances tor 
But the biggest story ofthe day for Andretti, placed fifth at Michigan an improved season depend on the the Irish was the surprising perfor­State. presence of a strong balance he­mance of freshman John Krug. Nor­Co-captain Don Heintzelman is tween freshmen and upperclas­mally stationed in the 167 lb. class, returning from arthroscopic sur­smen. This will be the key to just Krug agreed to move up to I90 to fill gery. The sophomore from Muncie, how far the Irish can go this year. a void created by an injury to Shawn last ) ear's winner of the F. Patrick Bruno is confident that the balance 
is there. "We have the best spread 
of talent over the ten weight classes 
since I've been head coach here." 
First indications of how the team will fare this season should come out of the squad's first triangular meet tomorrow, when the Irish square off 
Saint Mary's holds 
'Turkey Trot' run 

with Michigan and Olivet. 
Nearly 100 Saint Mary's students, Female Faculty/Staff 

faculty members and staff ad­1). Mary Connolly (winning time Interhall championshipministrators ·participated in the 
of19:12) second annual "Turkey Trot" three­
2). Janice Johansen mile run yesterday on the Saint 
3). Gail Mandel Mary's campus. Scores of others 

Dillon blanksHoward, 21-0
4 ). Joan Imler 
looked and cheered on. 5 ). Becky Stoddart 

The event, which originated last 6). Mary Ann Rowan By STEVE DANCO offensively late in the first half after its first possession ofthe second half, year, enables SMC students to Sports Writer Steve Saturno picked off an errant Dillon began to pour it on offensive­coexist with their superiors in a Male Faculty/Staff pass and returned it to his own 45. A ly. Mixing up short passes with runs competitive and enjoyable atmos­1). Peter Smith (winning time of In an almost businesslike manner, first down and a 35-yard pass inter­through the middle of the Howard phere. 16:31) Dillon rolled over Howard 21-0 Sun­ference call later, Howard was defense, Dillon took the ball 65 
There were three categories in 2). John Akers day for the interhall football cham­threatening on the Dillon 15 yard yards for a touchdown on another 
the event students, male 3). Terry Martin pionship. The outcome of the game line. However, the Dillon defense four-yard run by McMahon. The big 
faculty/staff, and female 4). Bob Foldesi was never in doubt as the Dillon of­was able to stiffen on first and play of the drive was a 24-yard run 
faculty/staff. The race was limited 5). Chuck McKelvey fense was able to control the ball, second downs, before Bob Wicke in­by Mike Dandurand that put Dillon 
expressly to Saint Mary's students 6). Pat Pierce and the game, as they moved up and tercepted a pass in the end zone on deep in Howard territory. 
and staff. down the field. third down. On Howard's second play after Here are the top six finishers in Race director and the founder of After taking the ball to start the the score, linebacker Mike McGuire each division: the event, Saint Mary's Assistant Ath­game, Dillon moved 40 yards before Led by centerJohn Power, the Dil­intercepted another pass to set up letic Director Tim Dillon, seemed being stopped on fourth down on lon offensive line was able to open Dillon's final points. The "Big Red Students pleased that the event went so the Howard 25. When the Howard gaping holes for the backs. Left Machine" drove 60 yards with ful­1). Annette Isom (winning time of smoothly. offense was unable to get going and tackle John Husmann, left guard Joe lback Brendan Coughlan hulling his 
16:09) "We had an excellent turnout for was forced to punt, Dillon again had Boyle and especially the right side of way over from the one for the score. 2). Liz Robison only our second year," said Dillon. good field position. This time Big the line with Power, Brian McHugh Howard was able to penetrate in­
3). Angie Michielutti "Last year, we had 63 participants, Red marched 60 yards with tailback ··and Jeff Lamb controlled the line of to Dillon's territory late in the game 4). Maggie W aish but we had 96 this year. Next year 
Dave McMahon enJing the drive on scrimmage and allowed Dillon to before interceptions by both Wicke 5). Gaynor McCown 
a four-yard burst for the score. keep moving the ball. The Dillon defense held Howard to 6 ). Ellen Byrne See TROT, page 14 
Howard was able to get untracked After the defense held Howard on under 50 yards of total offense to record its fourth shutout ofthe year. 
The vic.urv ended the second consecutive , ndefeated champion­ship season for Dillon, which finished 1982 with a record of 7-0. 
In season opener 

Belles lose to Kalamazoo, 73-66 
The team is 13-0 in its two seasons 

By DAVE IRWIN reel offseven straight points. clock to push the winner's lead to Kalamazoo scored 11 un-under Coach Marty Finan, a former Sports Writer "The transition game really hurt 32-24. answered points to re-take the lead varsity recruit who is given much of us," said first-year Belle coach Mike Saint Mary's regrouped and tallied 47-45 and forcing Rouse to call time the credit for the team's success. Mistakes in the closing minutes of Rouse. "And we missed a lot ofeasy 13 ofthe game's next IS points to go with 9:52 standing between victory Defensive lineman Jim Catalino ex­the game proved the difference be­shots in the early going." ahead 37-34 and force Kalamazoo to and defeat. plains that "Finan is the main reason tween an opening game victory for Saint Mary's trailed 19-14 before call time with 16:59 left in the Saint Mary's responded and went that we went from a 1-1-1 team the Saint Mary's basketball team and rattling off eight straight points to second half. Missy Van Orr scored ahead 54-53 on a basket by Suess three years ago to being champions 
a 73-66 loss to Kalamazoo Valley grab the Belles' first lead ofthe game four of her 13 second-half points with over six minutes to play. It was for the past two seasons." Community College Friday night at with litre over five minutes remain­(and a SMC high of 18) in the streak. the last time the Belles were to lead For Howard, this year's 4-1-1 mark the Angela Athletic Facility. completes a successful return to in­
ing in the first half. Cindy Short aided Van Ort with four as SMC could come no closer than "Things happened tu fall our way terhall football after a three-year
"Their offensive rebounding hurt of her 11 points. 56-56 before Kalamazoo asserted it­
abscence. The three touchdowns

down the stretch," said Kalamazoo us," Rouse said. "When they led 17-Teresa McGinnis added four self. Community College coachSue Pfier. that the defense surrendered to Dil­
12, I think six of their baskets came points, as St. Mary's stretched the "They were rushing us, trying to 
lon were the only points they

That they did. on offensive rebounds." margin to seven at 43-36. Wholesale force us into not setting up our of­Saint Mary's tied the score at 66 The Belles fell behind 29-24 at substitutions were called for by fense," Pfier said. "I made our girls allowed all year. on a pair of free throws by Elaine halftime as the winners scored the Kalamazoo when Saint Mary's led slow it down when we were getting The game was played before a Suess with I: 14 remaining in the last six points of the half. 45-38. pressed." crowd estimated at more than 300 contest. From there on, however, in Notre Dame Stadium. Many obser­
Things didn't look they were "When we led 45-38 and they put The SMC press did hurt the win­
the Belles failed to score while vers left the game commenting that
going to be any better in the opening in that little line-up, we should have ners, as Kalamazoo committed an in­
Kalamazoo took advantage of a minutes of the second half. they had seen the most productive
Linda put them away," observed Rouse. crediable 39 turnovers. 
couple of turnovers and some poor Wuokko connected on a three-point Instead, Kalamazoo rung the offense of any Notre Dame team in transition defense by Saint Mary's to play with 19:26 showing on the Belles. See BELLES, page 14 recent weeks. 






