

Vol. XVI. No. 135 

Friday, April 23, 1982
rht· imkpt·ndem !'>ludell! ncw~papcr :<><:r\'ing notre dame and !'>Jilll mary'!'> 
Former ambassador 
Woodcock supports arms freeze 
By ROBERT WALSH off by Notre Dame's Peace nuclear weapons. There is News Staff Mass yesterday morning, candid talk of a 'limited nuclear 
Woodcock was critical ofSoviet­war', one which the U.S. 
"It is good that the American U.S. policy of nuclear war. leaders feel can be uniquelypeople speak up in support of contained in Europe. It is the nuclar arms freeze," con­suicidal to pledge ourselves to a tended former Ambassador and military strife of this kind. It is 
United Auto Workers President no wonder that the /eaceLeonard Woodcock last night. movement in Europe an here 
''America needs to catch up in American is liberating its to Vermont," said the former opinion. Ambassador to the People's ''Thirty years ago, during teh 
Republic ofChina in a speech at MarshaJJ Plan, the combined the Hayes-Healy Auditorium. output of the U.S. and Canada 
''That state has already made was more than double that of positive resolutions against Western Europe. All of nuclear arms." Europe's resources and man­
Along with this endorsement power were used to rebuild of a nuclear arms freeze, ttself. But today it is a different Woodcock questioned the cred­story. The combined output of 
ibility of the Western European the U.S. and Canada is far less and U.S. beliefs of a limited nuclear war, the direction of ''There are 40 million less armaments in the Soviet Union, people in the Warsaw Pact 
U.S. and Europe, as well as countries than in Europe. The outlining his experiences with economic strength is much the extension of oiplomacy with greater than that of the Warsaw China. 
A subject which was touched See ARMS page 4 

Strike force nears 
Britian proposes new Falkland plan 
WASHINGTON (AP)-With her warships nearing the Falk­land Islands, poised to storm the dependency of South Georgia, Great Britain present­ed to the Reagan Adffiinistra-
Hesburgh continues annals 
Editor's Note: The followt·~ is the fourth of a senes o edited excerpts taken from t e diary of University President Theodore Hesburgh during his recent tnp to El Salvador as pari of the United States official observer team for the Salvadoran elections. 
Sunday, March 28 
We did several large circles over the capital city of San Salvador and were amazed at that hour to see lines offeople waiting to vote, many o these lines being four or five blocks long, some as long as a mile. That was a good augury. 

Atter hovering over the city so that the television cameras could get some sense of what was happening there, we 
headed off across Lake 
Ilopangi, just east of the city. 
Our pilots flew rather high, about 4,000 feet, so that it would be more difficult to shoot us from the ground. We soon passed over San Vicenti, another large city whose 
streets were fiJJed with people lined up for voting. Another good augury. We moved on to the east towards San Miguel and, finally, landed there about 45 minutes after leaving the airport 
at San Salvador. We were met 
See HESBURGH page 6 
Monday runoffs 
St. Mary's elects hall officers 
.tfv KEW FUNT !fxecutive News Editor 
A ''very dissapointing ' fifty­
six percent of those eligible 
voted in hall elections at Saint 
Mary's College yesterday. 
The system is set up so that 
students must initial the dorm 
room they will live in next year 
before voting, according to 
Election Comissioner Monica 
Gugle. 
''This involves paging through 
the housing list untd a part 
ticular room is found, which 
holds everything up," Gugle 
said. 
I'd like to find a more efficient system.'' 
Gugle noted that in many cases, students refused to vote. ''One girl said she would not vote because the candidate in 
her  hall  (Holy  Cross)  ran  
unopposed.''  
Students were  able  to  vote  

between 7 a.m. and 6:30 p.m. in the Le Mans Hall lobby and during all meals in the dining hall. 
The Ladner Georgen ticket will face Lorenzini Clarke in a runoff election for LeMans Hall Monday. 
Patricia Sigler and Mary Pat Hoffman were the uncontested winners in Holy Cross Hall, with ''well over'' the 50 per­
cent plus one requirement, 
according to Gugle. 
Michele Manion and Patricia 
Nolan were elected to McCan­
dless Hall office. 
The Augusta Hall officers, all except President Vice Presi­dent elected individually include: Sarah Clark, Presi­dent; Karen McCarter, Vice­President; Mary Jane Hart, Secretary; Mary Ososkie, Treasurer; Ellen Placey, Ju­dicial Comissioner. 
The office of Augusta Hall Social Comissioner will be de­cided in a runoff election Monday between Sandy Eitel and Deirdre Grant. 
tion yesterday a plan seem as a final, long-shot attempt to avoid new bloodshed with Ar­gentina. 
As Foreign Secretary, Fran­cis Pym outlined London's latest proposal to Secretary of State Alexander M. Haig Jr., British destroyers and troops were reported ready to strike at South Geaorgia, the Falklands dependency defended by an estimated 300 to 500 Argentine invaders. 
South Georgia is 800 miles east of the Falklands, and about 1100 miles off the coast of Argentina. It was captured by Argentine forces a day after the invasion of the mail islands April 2. 
British defense sources said the entire 61-ship armada in the South Atlantic would go on full war alert tonight when it came within striking range of Argentine aircraft. 
Pum said upon his arrival in Washington that Britain is committed to a peaceful out­come, if at all possible. "We will do everything we can to try to find a peaceful settlement to the dispute," he told reporters. 
But he also said there are "real differences and real obstacles" to a solution. 
'Campus Scream ' erupts on South quad 
By DAVID SARPHIE 
News Editor 
Notre Dame exploded in a near-riot last night as several ~undred students rampaged through the campus, shouting msults at dorms along the way. 
.Ushering in An Tostal's Frivolous Fridar, the campus­wtde. screal!l began shortly before midmght. A group fevensh excttement, soon headed past LaFortune on its way to the South Quad. 
Arriving .at Alumni Hall, the North Quad mob found representatives from the South Quad waiting and a screamiqg . confrontation ensued. After the tw~ groups exchanged msults for several minutes, they joined forces in a loud tour of the South Quad dorms, aiming various insults at each dorm along the route. 
Third-floor residents of Howard Hall were the only ones who countered the attack, splashing water on unlucky screamers passing under the archway. 
Heading pas~ the Ad.ministration Building the group hoped to find Untverstty Prestdent Fr. Theodore Hesburgh working late in his offtce. ''We want Ted!'' the group chanted. It was to no avail, however. 
An Tostal event will continue this afternoon with various activities planned on the South Quad. 
__,..--r~--------~-----­
·News Brie!J 
ByThe Obsen1er and The Associated Press 
A TIME-BOMB EXPLODED in a rush-hour crowd near the· Champs Elysees yesterday morning, killing a pregnant woman and injuring 68 other people in a 
fi~eball that sent chunks of a car soaring eight stories htgh. The bomb also soured French-Syrian relations and raised speculation that the terrorist Carlos had struck again. Police said the bomb went off at 9:02a.m. under a rented orange Opel park~d in front of an anti-Syrian, pro-Iraqi Lebanese newsweekly, AI Watan AI Arabi. The blast shattered storefronts and windows and sprayed glass shards and twisted metal in a radius of 150 yards along the crowded Rue Marbeuf. ''I had just gotten to work when I hear a deep explosion and sa~ a tremendous ball of fire rise right up outside my third-floor office window," said Charles Torey, senior partner for Doudert-Freres, an American law firm with offices 50 yards from Al Watan Al Arabi. He said he was told debris from the blast was found on the roof of his eight-story office building. -AP 
RICHARD NIXON· SPEAKING at ·a lavish GOP fund-raiser, said the Soviet Union has gained an adv~ntage o.ver the United States in military strength, parn.cularly m n~cle~r weaponry. Appearing yesterday 
m. Southern Cahforma f<_>r the first time in .three years, Ntxon also tersely demed recent allegations that he drank ex~essively whits pres~dent. ''When president Carter, wuh the best of IntentiOns, scrapped part of our pro~ra~ and the S<_>viets responded by building up theirs, the U.S. disadvantage resulted, Nixon told about 800 republicans who paid $800 a plate. ''With .the edge on their side, the Soviet Union could be in a 
position to launch ~ war -which is unlikely-or, more hkely, to engage 10 nuclear blackmail. President Reag~n must never let that happen again,'' Nixon said, drawmg prolonged applause. -AP 
LOO~ING PAL~· DRAWN and somewhat shabby, President Leomd I. ~rez~nev appeared in public yesterday for the first time m four weeks and listened ~ith a hearing aid to KGB .chiefYuri. Andropov deliver ·e keynote address at a maJOr Kreml10 ceremony. The , year-old Brezhnev has long been rumored to be in 
poor health and was reported to have been hospitalized late last month. An Aide took Brezhnev by the right elbow up the three steps leading to the platform where he and others gathered for the celebration of V.I. Lenin's birthday in the Kremlin Palace of Congresses. Brezhnev, wearin~ a dark blue suit bedecked with ~edals, walked Without. assistaJ?.ce across the stage to hts place beneath a gtant white bust of Lenin and behind the rostrum. The ceremony was broadcast live on television. -AP 
A-30-YEAR-OLD Montana native will become the· first deaf parish priest in the country tomorrow when he is ordained in a ceremony that will include sign language. ~e Rev. Raymond H. Fleming is to be ordained by ~1shop Matthew Clark of the Rochester Diocese; which mcludes much of upstate New York. Fleming has been a deaco~ ini:ern sinc.e last fall at St. Mary of the Assumption Church ·10 suburban Scottsville where Fleming !ived. Churc;h offici~s said Fleming has asked to be assigned to an mner-ctty church in Rochester for h~s year as a priest int~rn. The Courier Journal, the d~ocesan ne~sp:;tper, said Fleming will be the first deaf dwcesan pnest tn the country. Two other deaf priests have been ordained, but they work within larger orders and are not responsible for specific churches. 
-AP 
ROCK STAR PAUL MCCAR1NEY s~ys he and John Lennon settled most of their differences before ·Lennon's. death, b~t they neve~ eased nagging friction over busmess affairs from thetr days at Beatles. "I ~ould h~ve liked to have.seen him the day before and JU~t ~tratg~tened. everythmg out with us," McCartney. satd m an tntervtew to be televised in four ·parts next week on N~C-TV's "Today" program. The main point of contention was the management of Apple Records, the company the Beades formed, McCartney said, ''We found we could talk to each other as long as we were talking about kids ... stuff like that. Suddenly, either o~e o~, us would say, "And what about the Apple ·th10g? and we would get really mean. . . We literally learned not to talk about Apple records after a few years.'' McCartney said in their last telephone conversations, "We. didn't talk about anything other .than good conversanon and I felt very good about it, so there was some compensation in that.'' -AP 
SUNNY AND WARMER TODAY. Highs mid 60s to around 70. Clear and mild tonight. Lows in low to mid 4~s. ~ostly sunr;ty, breezy and warmer tomorrow. Htghs 10 low to mtd 70s. -AP 
Friday, April23, 1982 -page 2 
I'm mad, Indiana Bell 
"I'm Eddie Chiles, and I'm MAD, mad about ... " 
So began a series of radio spots a few years 
back by the crusty and self-made Dallas oilman ·Eddie Chiles. Every morning Chiles would be mad about something, usually the plagues of "big gov'ment." Nary was there a subject that escap~d. Chiles' scrutin>:; his gripes ranged from 
the mmtscule to the umversal. . 
Many disagreed with Chiles' anti-big govern­
ment stand; however, it seemed that many more 
concurred with him, for soon after the commer­
cials began, motorists in my hometown Houston 
b<;gan sporting ''I'm Mad Too, Eddie" bumper 
suckers by the thousands. I found it hard not to 
listen to C~iles my~lf, for even though I thought 
s<_>me of h1~ complamts were minor, I respected 
him for tak10g a stand -for having ~he courage to 
speak up. 
Chiles' minor complaints had an effect on me that I only now understand. They convinced me that Chiles was a realist, someone who can get as mad as I can about problems that require so li~tle to corre~t if .o~ly someone would get hts/her r~specuve tatl10 gear. The effective part about.Chiles' touches of down-to-earth griping is that lt made me respect his. more serious complaints that much more. After all, this was a person as they say, "just like you and me " not some idealist who only drops off Cloud' 9 for meals. 
At Notre Dame, I had thought that. the small gripe was indeed an honorable one, for I felt that the concern shown by both students and faculty towards arms reduction, Third World exploita­tion. and the like more than proved our concern for Issues and moral questions outside of Notre Dame. 
Apparently,. some do not agree. A recent letter to the editor called on students to attend to ''more pressing issues'' than kegs or the student ~.enter or. the Nestle boycott. Said the letter, 
Overacnng on self-centered, minor causes wil only endanger our integrity as a student force when acting on the major issues." 
On the contrary, I believe activity of any kind lends to the respectability of the Notre Dame student voice especially in these apathetic times. The first step towards becoming socially aware a~d. concerned on a global basis is becoming similarly aware on a campus basis. 
Such campus gripes, such as kegs and a student center do not reflect badly on students, nor are they selfish, as. the letter suggested. These campus complaints show an honorable attempt on the students part of examine the issues and get involved. 
What about overacting? I'm not asking anyon~ to be a martyr for the sake of a keg, but sometu:nes one must be a bit more pointed to get the pornt across. Personally, I think Edward Konrady and Randy Fahs' idea to pile a weekeJ?.d'.s worth of empties on the steps of the Ad Budd10g might be very effective in showing the tremendous waste that occurs as a result of the keg policy. 
p,.nd n~w it is my turn to gripe, because, like Chdes, I m mad. You know the scenario. The time is approaching 11 p.m. -_ dialimr fin~er 
Design Editor Monica Design Assistants Mike Paul News Editor Dave Features Layout Joe Editorials Layout Paul Sports Copy Editor Dzave Typists Suzanne Margaret Tari Deirdre Joe ND Day Editor Joe SMC Day Editor Cindy Photographer Carrie  
The Observer (USPS 598 9201 1s published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays except dunng exam ·and vacat1on penods The Observer 1s published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys Col lege Subscnpt,ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($I 5 per semester) by wntlng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 The Observer IS a .membler of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved Second class postage pa1d. at Notre Dame lnd>ana 46556  


ready~.3... 2 ... 1...go$ Dial9, and then l...Busy. 
Busy for the next hour, maybe an hour and a 
half. 
~he problem has eclipsed being merely a 
nmsance. Some students are finding themselved 
arrangi~g their e~tire evening schedule so to be 
pho~estde at .11 10 order to gef one of the few 
precious outside long distance lines. 
More irritating. is the fact that we students pay 
the. same long distance rate as anyone else in 
Indiana, only .to receive pitifully poor service. 
And some of us manage to nng up quite a bill, 
too.] ust down the hall,. someone IS paying well 
over $100 to Ma Bell this month, and I certainly 
pay more than a modest sum. 
The point is that students spend quite a bit of 
mon.ey on t~e telephone at Notre Dame, a 
portwn of whtch ··Indiana Bell should have been 
usins towards maintaining excellent service, 
and If ne~essary, expanding service. 
Bro. Kieran Ryan, Asst. Vice President for 
Business Affairs, handles the phone system at 
Notre Dame; however, he says there is nothing 
the Administration can do. 
''E~en if we as~e.d, the phone company would 
not. gtve us addit;wnal tru~~ l~nes (the lines 
ava.dable .for outgo10g calls), said Bro. Ryan in 
an rn!ervtew a ~ew 'Yeeks ago. 
Evidently, this gnpe will have to be aired by studen~ voices alone. These voices can become q~ite powerful ones, though, especially consid­enng the sums ~ent towards Indianapolis every month.'The key ts to act in unison. I propose only a few courses.of action, which I hope at the least will get Indiana Bell to recognize that the problem exists, and that we Notre Dame students are vocal and active enough to demand an explanation. 
Firs~, the. next tim.e you receive your Indiana B~ll btll (I JUSt received mine), tuck in a note With the ~ayment asking why the service is so bad. Nothrng elaborate -but ask specifically for a reply. 
Seco~d, the next time ~ou find yourself dialing 9 ... 1. ..rncessantly one mght to no avail, dial 9 and call237-8400. This is Indiana Bell's general complaint number. Calmly tell the O{>erator that you are not pleased with Bell's service. 
These are not irration~ suggestions, but ways that we can act responsibly. 
That letter proposed that we abandon such alledgedly self-centered fi~hts as this one but I ask, "Who will air our gnpes if we do no~?" 
I share the author's concern that not enough ~mention is no.t ~aid to more pressing worldly tssues, but belittling local campus issues is not the way to foster more concern. Involvement lea?s to more involvement, and, as in the Eddie Chiles ~xample, people will listen to you if your compla10ts show a legitimate and serious concern, no matte what the issue. 

• IN r,HE ROUND • 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 28 • 8 P.M. NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 
Tickets-$15.00 & $12.50 on sale at Notre Dame A.C.C. (Mon.-Sat. 9 to 5) • Robertson's (So. Bend & Concord • St. Joseph Bank (Main Branch)• 
-------------·-----. ------------­The Observer Friday, April 23, 1982 -page 3 
Israeli air strikes 
Violence continues in Lebanon 
BEIRUT* LEBANON (AP)­fighters over eastern Lebanon. Radical Palestinians clamored Latest police figures show 23 yesterday for violent reprisals people killed and 60 wounded for the Israeli bombardment of 10 the attacks Wednesday South Lebanon but PLO Chief afternoon. Yasser Arafat and his domin­"We are working hard to ant Farah faction appeared to reestablish and maintain the have reined in the extremists. cease-fire," said U.S. Ambas­
Palestine Liberation Organi­sador Robert Dillon after a zation officials said privately no 45-minute meeting here with military action will be under­Lebanese Foreign Minister taken against Northern Israeli Fuad Burros. towns from Southern Lebanon. The 9-month-old truce was 
Israeli jets flew over Beirut sponsored by both the United on three reconnaissance flights States and the United Nations yesterday, draw in~ anti­to halt a 15-day cross-border aircraft fu-e and sendmg local battle between Israel and the residents running for shelter. PLO, and a massive air attack 
The United States, mean­that killed nearly 300 people in while, strove to re-establish the a Palestinian-controlled Beirut cease-fu-e that was broken neighborhood. when Israeli jets blasted Pales­Syria vowed to confront any tinian strongholds near Beirut new Israeli attack. and downed the Syrian MIG-28 ''Syria asserts anew it will 
Judge claims company created monoply 
GRAND RAPIDS • Mich. 
(AP) -A federal judge ruled 
vesterday that the nation's 
largest supplier of health care 
products illegally conspired to 
monopolize its market, and he 
said the antitrust decision 
might lead to lower hospital 
costs. 
In a case flled by four smaller competitors, U.S. District Judge Douglas W. Hillman ruled that a contract American Hos~;>ital Supply Corp. signed w1th Voluntary Hospitals of America was anti­competitive. 
Hillman awarded $430,638 in damages to the smaller compe­titors of American Hospital, saying the contract was an attempt to monopolize or re­strain trade in medical and sur_gical supplies in Michigan, Oh10, West Virginia, Kentucky and Indiana. 
American Hospital Supply, based in Evanston, Ill., sells 48,000 products ranging from syringes to sur~ical greens to 7000 hospitals nationwide and also does business in Europe and the Far East. It had 1981 earnings of $163.1 million on sales of $1.5 billion. 
"If the opinion sends a message to the hospitals that they have an obligation to be highly competitive in buying their supplies...it may well be that (it) will have some general impact in reducing hospital costs," Billman said in an interview yesterday. 
Because most medical ex­penses are paid by insurance companies and the govern­ment, ''people generally have not been concerning about costs," the judge said. 
George Ransdell, president of Ransdell Surgical Inc. of Louisville, Ky., one of the plaintiffs, said the lawsuit was ''a battle for the industry as a whole.'' 
He said consumers were the winners, adding, "A compet­itive environment brings bene­fit to the consumer.'' 
The ruling ''is beins studied to see if an appeal ts desir­able,'' American Hospital Sup­ply said in a statement. 
We would respectfully dis­agree with Judge Hillman," said W. Donald McSweeney, a lawyer for American Hospital group of non-profit hospitals in the nation, with 31 hospitals in 22 states. 
Under its contract with American Hospital Su_.eply, rebates were to be paid ifVHA facilities bought large quanti­ties of goods. The rebates were based on total purchases by the group, so ind1vidual hospitals did not know at the time of purchase whether they would get rebates. 
confront any new Israeli mili­tary move in Lebanon," ac­cording to a statement from the Soviet-backed government broadcast on State radio in Damascus. "Arab skies will not be open to enemy arro­gance irrespective of costs, 
sacrifices  or  whatever  it  
takes."  
The  Syrians  maintain  a  

30,000-man army in Lebanon under an Arab League man­date to police a civil war armistice between rightist Christians and an alliance of leftists and Palestinians. 
Israel said Wednesday's air assaults were a retaliation for a chain of alleged PLO violations of the cease-fire but the PLO and the Lebanese government said the attacks were unpro­voked. 
Radar stations, arms deP.ots, training bases and antllery positions were hit hard by Israeli jets on bombing and 

rocketing runs along an 18-mile 
Guitarists strum a tune (or the An Tostal Talent Show
stretch of the Mediterranean 
yesterday afternoon. [Photo by Cam·e Koplin]
coast south of Beirut. 
One heavily-bombed training ..................................................................' 
.
base was in the town of . Mazboud, 18 miles southeast 
· 
of Beirut. Wrecked artillery pieces, burned rocket launch­ers and the shells of auto­mobiles were strewn about grounds. 
In some places along the coast yesterday, the hillsides close to the beaches bristled with light anti-aircraft guns and mobile guns were on constant patrol near refugee camps and on the highway. 
Off-Campus Commission presents 
CUBS vs. REDS 
' ................................................................... 
Tuesday afternoon, April27 
See fke Kafimwe 'Rtwd ~fJ'IIduclieK ~ 
$10-includes:Bus Beer &Ticket For More information 
ANNIE 
call Kathy Jurado 277-8839 
at fke OaowK Tkeabte "' Clcicago. 
·Swcday. Apltif 25
********************************** 
; Would you like 3 Credits ~ in Two Weeks?!!! 
; Art majors and Non-majors alike ; Redbud Summer Art Workshops * May 17-29
*
! choose from: Drawing, Photography,! Ceramics, and Printmaking 
! Sign up ROW!!! ~ for more information contact: 
.
. 
Notre Dame Student Union presents: · 
ALGER HISS on tThe McCarthy Era' -Former United Nations Advisor -New Deal Activist -Delegate to Yalta Conference 
Tuesday, April27 8:00PM Memorial library Auditorium 
.. 
; 
TickW $24.00: JftaiK FfMit F'lmfl SetW.cg &T~ 
Available at Student Union Ticket Office
~ 
; 
! 
--~~~~ ...... ~~~~~~~---~~~.-.. ..t The Nazz announces: f
* 
t ~-:~ The Last ffiARK DAVIS SHOW t ; * , !~-Saturday, April24 8:30-10:30 f 
! ~-. ' ; ~ "'. / Come see ifMark has actually predicted 
' • I 
t
' ~ \ ·. the final two teama in bookatore baa.ll:etballll
! 
t ~· Special Guest: f ~ 
t Dan Btahlet& othet sutptlses I t 
~ Moreau Gallery-284-5717 ~ 
t ~-,. also featutlng: t
* sponsored by the St. Mary's College Art Dept. * 
L _ _!~ m1~u~~!_a~d~ J.Q:.3.Q1. __J
********************************** 
Take the EASY RIDER••• United Limo to l:1 from Chicago's O'Hare•••every l hours-every day! 
LEAVE MIOWAY MOTOR LODGE ELKHART  LEAVE MISHAWAKA OFFICE  LEAVE BIG BEAR RESTAURANT TOWN & COUNTRY  LEAVE NOTRE DAME BUS SHELTER  LEAVE MICHIANA REGIONAL AIRPORT  ARRIVE 0 HARE  
3:45a.m 4:45a.m 6:45a.m 8 45 am 10 45a m. 12 45 p m 2 45 p m 4 45 p m  4:00a.m 5 00 a.m. 7:00am. ~ 00 am 11:00 a.m 1 00 p m 3 00 p m 5 OO·p m  4:15am 5·15 a.m 7.15 a.m 9 15 a.m 11 15 am 1 15 p m 3 15 p m 5 15 p m  4.30 a m 5 30 am 7.30 a m 9. 30 a m 11 30 a m. 1 30 p m 3 30 p m 5 30 p m  5 00 am 600a.m 8 00 a m 10 00 a m 12 00 noon 2 00 p m 4 00 p m 6 00 p m  7 15 a.m 8 15 a.m 10 15 a.m 12 15 p m 2 15 p.m. 4 15 p m 6 15 p m 8 15 p m  

LEAVE 0 HARE  ARRIVE MICHIANA REGIONAL AIRPORT  ARRIVE NOTRE DAME BUS SHELTER  ARRIVE BIG BEAR RESTAURANT TOWN & COUNTRY  ARRIVE MISHAWAKA OFFICE  ARRIVE MIOWAY MOTOR LODGE ELKHART  
8 3D am 1030am 1230pm 2 30 p m 4 30 p m 6 30 p m 8 30 p m 11 00 p m  10 45 a.m 12 45 p m 2 45 p.m 4 45 p m 6 45 p m 8 45 p m 10 45 p m 1 15 a m  11·ooam 1 00 p m 3 00 p m 5 00 p m 7 00 p m 9 00 p m 11 DO p m 1 30 am  11 15 am 1 15 p m 3 15 p m 5 15 p m. 7 15 p m 9 15 p.m 11 15 p m 1 45 a m  11·3oa.m 1 30 p.m 3·3o p m 5. 30 p m 7 30 p m 9 30 p.m 11.30 p m 2.00 a m  12:00 noon 2:00p.m 4 00 p m 6 00 p m B 00 p.m 10 00 p.m 12 00 MIO 2 30 am  

We stop at every pick -up point on every trip!
Supply. "We are disappointed 
United Limo
with this finding." _ ' 
Free parking at our lot: deliver to your airline at 0'Hare, pick up 
at lower level Carson's Restaurant. McKinley & Bittersweet, Mishawaka
Voluntary Hospitals of 
America is a O"·)ir-making 
Allow one hour from our arrival time to flight time. (219) 255-3068 or (219) 674-8613 
representativ~ [or the largest 
Please make reservations 24 hours in advance. Ask about special charter rates. or call your Travel Agent 
The Observer 

WASHINGTON (AP)-House, Democrats have indtcated they will asree to a three-month delay m this summer's Social Security cost-of-living increase as part ofa budget compromise if President Reagan takes the lead in proposing it, congres­sional s'Jurces satd yesterday. 
In addition, House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr. said Democrats have outlined to White House and congression­al negotiators several steps to shore up the Social Security System, including transferring revenue from excise taxes into the pension system. 
That proposal "didn't see the light of day with regard to the opposition," O'Netll said, who added, "I'm not-optimis­tic'' about chances for a budget compromise. 
There was no indication how the suggestion for delaying the inflation increase scheduled for ] uly was received, although administration officials have said Reagan will not accept any change in Social Security with­out a strong bipartisan agree­ment first in Congress. 
Even so, word that Rep. 
""'--·--·· 
Friday, April23, 1982-page 4 
Social Security 
Dems agree to delay increase 

On an oyster, aone-piece shell would be big trouble. But with Memorex cassettes. it's a big benefit 
Using ultra high frequency sound. wesonicallyweld the two halves of every Memorex cas­sette to form a single. solid cas­sette shell. 
This single-unit construction gives Memorex cassettes a struc­tural rigidity which is critical to precise tape-to-head contact 

Remember, even the slightest So put your next recording variation in cassette shape can on Memorex. In HIGH BIAS II, alter the way the tape comes in METAL IV or normal bias MRXI. contact with the head. Which can Each has a one-piece shell. drastically affect sound repro-Which, on an oyster, is a bad duction. idea. 
That's why we prefer sonic But on a cassette, it's a welding. real pearl. It keeps our cassette struc-;;;,;·.. .... ture as true as our · · e 1 
remarkable sound reproduction. Which, thanks to our unique tape formulation and an extraordinary bind­ing process called Permapass,'M will remain true to life play after play. Even after 1000 plays 
In fact, a Memorex cassette will always de­liver true sound repro­duction, or we'll replace it. Free. 
l' 1981 ME"more, Coroorat1on Santa Clara Cahforn1a 95052 US A 
,, 
-~~;~\, 
NOW MORE THAN EVER r 
· 
WE ASK: IS IT LIVE, OR IS IT ~ 
MEMOREX 
Richard Blling, D-MO., had floated several ideas at a White House bargaining sessions Wednesday night led Senate Majority Leader Howard H Baker, ] r. , to tell reporters that negotiators were making pro­gress. 
''I say that because I think there's been some movement on both sides, " said Baker, R.-Tenn. 
Treasury Secretary Donald Regan, another negotiator, also said he was hopeful, adding, "Something h~1.s .t.o be done about the deficits. 
Sources, asking not to be identified, said none of Bol­ling's proposals were in writing and administration and Repub­lican bargainers were expected to press for details at a n_lld-afternoon bargaining ses­swn. 
Ironically, the new ideas surfaced as : some negotiators discussed dropping efforts at drafting a detailed compromise in favor of a simt>ler approach to reducing deficits. 
Under this approach, the White House and Congress would agree on a deficit target for each of the next three years and on how much spending should be cut and taxes should be raised to reach the goal. Congress would then pass leg­islanon to meet the targets. 
Until now, negotiators have been attempting to agree on a detailed J?lan to reduce deficits to $98 btllion in 1983 and $40 billion in 1985. Without action by congress. The deficits will reach $180 billion this year and $240 billion in 1985, officials say. 
Elements of a proposal under discussion include a 4 percent inc<?me tax surcharge for up.Per mcome taxpayers, an oil tmport fee or other tax on energy products and other measures to help raise about $125 billion over three years. 
Reagan's defense buildup would be out by $28 billion over three years and hundreds of domestic spending programs would either be frozen at existing levels or cut. 
In addition, there would be a three-month delay in the cost­of-living increase for Social Security, and the increase itself would be limited to 4 percent. 
.. .Arms 
c,ontinued from page 1 
Pact countries. Why then should the Western European countries lie defenseless to Soviet nuclear arms.? And, more importantly, why cannot Western Europe develop its own conventional defensive forces and remove the necessity of absolute reliance on nuclear arms?" 
Woodcock then spoke on his role as the first ambassador to the People's Republic of China, and the history of U.S. China relationship since the 1949 Communist takeover of china. ''China was shutoff from the 
U.S. after the · takeover and a year later was considered the enemy withthe start of teh Korean War,'' said W oodcoclk. "In 1972, the door was once again open to China by Presi­dent Nixon. But U.S. only held the door until 1978, when President Carter endorsed me to begin normalization talks with the Republis." 
Concluding, Woodcock felt that the relations between the 
U.S.  and  China  can  be  
improved ev en more.  - 
..  

~e3~~iltAtrt' 
ASnite Museum 'lour 
Sponsored by the ND Women's Caucas 
lfJitl Swultuj Af1ri£ 25.1982 
at Main Entrance Refreshments following 
~ 
Taylor-Happy Birthday Kalua or Lambrusco? love<) Ryan ~ 
Cello 1 For Sale i 
=!~?~~,J 
----------------------~-----~--~---~----~---~--~--­
-------------, 
The Observer Friday, April23, 1982 -page 5 
Sanai withdrawal 
Israeli soldiers oust squatters 
(AP)-Israeli soldiers wrestled what has been an unprecedent­300 shouting, weeping Jewish ed spectacle of Israeli soldiers squatters from the roof of an in conflict with Jews. apartment building yesterday, There were no casualties. clearing the way for bulldozers The squatters, who had to raze the town before Israel moved into Yamit in recent withdraws from the Sinai Des­months hoping to stop the err. withdrawal from what they 
regard as Israeli territory, set 
Soldiers backed by riot police tires afire, threw sand and swarmed up latters and strug­tried to topple the ladders with gled with the squatters for half pole. an hour. Three days before Israel withdraws from the Sin­Firemen drove them back ai, it was another skirmish in with torrents of foam and 
FRIVOLOUS FRIDAY 
Afternoon events. on South Quad ;, Check booklets for details ·-· · · 
Recess 8 p.m. -11 p.m. Stepan Center 
Midnire Movie-Airplane! UrnitlniJ~ht·ti·+~(.;, i'f·,SEJ~J~··$qiRJ~~Stepan .Center· Free 
Irish Pub • Pat Heiden Quartet midnight · Senior Bar 
SUNNY SATURDAY 
Picnic and Games • 11:30 a.m. ~ North Quad 
Mudpirs • Various Events • Check booklet for details 
seawater, permitting the troops to gain the rooftops and corral the resisters. 
lbeir eviction appeared to break the back of the two-day­old struggle to keep Yamit Israeli. 
The army s only remaining challenge was to oust about a dozen squatters who had baricaded themselves atop a 100-foot-high war mem­orial. 
• 
-:*•"'~·--·-I . 
A woman settler resists Israeli soldiers dun'ng her eviction from Yamit in the Occupied Sinai Wednesday. See story on page 5. [AP Laserphoto] 
an tostal IS 

The Observer Friday, April23, 1982 -page 6 
... Hesburgh 

When a good friend borrows 
yourcar,the tank may not come backfull. 
But the trunk does. 
\\1K'n you gl't paid back \\ith intere~t like 
this. it sort of make~ you \\i~h he'd borrow things more often. Open up <1 fe\\' cold one~ ;mel to<1~t <l ,L,rt.Iy 
\\·ho really knmr~ hm\· to retLlll1 <1 

..)bn>r. 
, 'l{might. iL't it be Lii\renbt-;iu. 
Lowenbrau. Here's to go9d (~ie~ds.
. ....... " ...... . . --'"'•'• . . ,•.. .. . . 
~ 
offered the prayers for the dead and a final blessing for the burial. At that point, they opened a window in the front of the coffin, a kind of gruesome Spanish practice, 
and there looking out at me was the lifeless face of the young man, badly shot up, scarred, cut, bleeding, a horror to his mother, I am sure. The poor woman took one last look, and I had to embrace her as she collapsed in shock. We had few words, and then I gave her my rosary, the one the Holy Father had blessed in -~orne j_ust two weeks ago. 
They closed the window on the coffin, and the procession proceeded on the cemetery, somewhat more at ease because at least the dead man had had a priest's blessing before being put into the ground. The mother was a strong woman, and I could not help but think of Jesus meeting the widow mother of Nairn whose only son was being buried. It was not exactly a good way to start the day, but I was glad I was there and able to help. The soldiers in San Miguel told us there had been fighting all around the perimeter of the city that morning, but that, finally, they had repulsed the guerillas and now voting was going on in earnest, with many people standing in long lines to vote. 
I should perhaps explain at this point that there are many departments (like our states( in San Salvador and that from San Miguel and including it, there are four departments that go north to touch the border of Honduras. These four 
departments, Morazan, San 
Miguel, Cabanas, and 
Usulutan are the four most 
harassed by the guerillas. In 
fact, Morazan is claimed by the 
guerillas as their land; ans 
most of the roads leading 
north have been completely 
closed down for the past few 
months. 
Our strategy was to fly to 
the northernmost town next to 
the Honduran border and to 
put in apperance the to see 
whether or not the people were 
really voting, even in guerilla 
land. The town that they lay 
most claim to is Perquin, and 
we finally decided to go there. 
We could not land because the 
mountains are very high 
around this town. We would 
be fired on from this high 
ground, and if our helicopter 
was disabled, we would very 
likely be killed. We put some 
fuel aboard and headed for 
Perquin. The mountains kept 
rising higher and there was no 
way we could stay above 
because even flying at 4,000 or 
5,000 feet, the mountains rose 
to meet us. We finally arrived 
at the northernmost town of 
Perquin and circled it several 
times, noting that people were 
in the streets outstde the 
voting, booths and even in this 
guenlla-held town, voting 
was going on, despite guerilla 
opposition. We then turned 
south again towards a town 
called Jocoro below the high 
hills, assuming we could land 
there without being shot upon 
from above. Even at that, I 
think we could all admit to 
some trepidation as we came in 
to land at Jocoro, not knowing 
what would be awaiting us 
there . 
Dr. Silvia Pimentel, Dean of the Law School at the Pontifical Catholic University ofSao Paolo, Brazil, spoke last night on "Women's Rights in Br_azilian f.Aw" at the Galvin Life Auditorium.. [Photo by Came Koplzn] 
continued from page 1 
by soldiers at the helipad. The first thing I saw in getting off the helicopter was about 2,000 empty cartidge shells that were the remainder of a fire fight that had happened there recently. We walked up the hill into the military center and began to get reports from the country to the north where we ~ope to check out the election m progress. 
While we were waiting there, a strange event happened which reminded me for the unpteenth time of the comfort pnestly ministry can impart at the least likelly of moments. A group ofpeople came down the road in fromt of the military post carrying a coffin. Since they were out in the 
boondocks, there was no priest present. This young soldier had been killed several hours before, and in a crowd was his very desolate and crying mother. 
Since I had my collar on, I walked out to the procession, introduced myself as Padre Teodoro, and was, of course, most welcome. Everyone gathered around the coffin and we recited the ''Our Father'' and the "Hail Mary," and I 
Friday, April23, 1982 -page 7 
Editorials 
Why Notre Dame coeducation lS• 
Though women have been were up to the supposed male that type of enviroment, wo­After pomung to this per­official members of the under­challenge --and with good men felt secure and better able vened sense of sexual dispar­graduate colleges for 10 years, reason. The women were from to express themselves. ity, Notre Dame men easily 
the Administration has failed the upper crust of their re­But Notre Dame shatters laugh off their sexual exploita­to implement meaningful co­spective high schools. that security as the woman tion, much as 19th-century education. Academic, athletic While many men continued faces male indoctrination. Southern planters laughed off and social competition, which to ~ain entrance solely on the Faced with this challenge to stllvery. Truly, ·democratic 
basts of the unbalanced sex full womanhood, many women principles and religion, once ratio, women faced rigorous lose a real sense of security used for exploitation of the
Paul R. McGinn 
standards set by the high and are forced to adopt a Black man have become tools caliber of the female applicants defensive posture in order to of sexual discrimination. 
Roper Review themselves. save their tdentities. Though a ftfty-ftfty male 
Once admitted,women faced Any attempt to work toget· -female ratio would truly allev­were nonexistent at Notre the sheer male-dominated com­her with the male student body iate the unnatural tenston on Dame before 1972, have be­munity. Academics and extra­must proceed according to campus, quotas themselves 
failing 
would invariably discriminate 
against qualified students. The 
men will, of course, continue to 
form the majority, but in time, 
daughters of alumnae will be­
gin to supplant sons ofalumni. 
Only when women feel se­
cure enough to assen them­
selves as individuals in a 
natural setting will Notre Dam¢ 
become truly coeducational.But 
that day seems far off. 

come the prime source of curriculars became more than block actions, whereby women tension between male and fe­vote as one group. r--------,----------------------. 
male students. When women Individual women who at-entered Notre Dame in the fall tempt to change the system of 1972, the so-called "female become swallowed by the male element," whiclv bad.· been majority. bottled at Sainl:·yary's·,. ~d.-t Because men comprise such d~nly appeared-on:the-eut~ ·. a large majority, they are able stde of U.S. 31. · · · to seem pluralistic. Only when Because of this tension, the men go at each other's throats dreams which just materialized is a united female contingent ten years ago have become able to overturn the men. nightmares of sexual repres­A prime . example of male sion and insecurity. dominance concerns the office Wome brought social and of student body president. In~ '1"14\S 15 COEDUCATION? •intellectual vitality to a campus all the ten years women have sinking in the dung of static attended Notre Dame, no wo­tradition. Suddenly, long hair mere tests of talent; they man has ever been elected and sandals lost their radical became tests ofwill and endur­SBP. Through this inability to significance as bastions ofmale ance against the chauvinist accept female superiors, men dominance such as Walsh and male majority. strip the minority of meaning­Badin opened their doors to For nearly all of these wo­ful representation. women.And alumni hoped it men, the maleness of Notre If men choose to argue the would end there --but it did Dame is quite a change from cause of male dominance, they not. high school, where the number need only point to the outdated Soon women proved them­of women approximately equ­male-oriented traditions of the selves across the board. They alled the number of men. In Roman Catholic Church.  
P.O. Box Q  
Reply to Musumeci editorial column ' Dear Editor: Mr. Musumeci also quest-and that I enjoled the show It was disheartening to read ioned whether most of the very much. I mzght also point Joe Musumeci's abuse of the audience was able to see Jeff out that Mousseau, Quinn,  

c p •
T T
at11 US v O'ICe 
The question for today was ... "What do you think about Prime Minister Trudeau as commencement speaker?" (Photos and interviews by Cheryl Enelt) 

; . 
. 
.~ 
CHRIS CERVENAK Arts and Letters 
"I think it's fine. It's better than Haig, but I wanted the pope or Robert Redford. '' 
\ 

ND Student Player's Mousseau's interpretation of Davenport, and A.portela, to t ";J . , .·':' ' production of Cabaret. He Caberet or whether they were name only a few, have also ~\. C 1'"~~ j scares that he cannot there merelyto see singing done fine work with the •-•...!111-llliit...•.._,. -...._ "fathom" what makes and dancing and "several ND!SMC Theatre, in shows CARRIE AMATO Arts and BOB RITGER Architecture "productions such as these so scantily dad women doing which most of Cabaret's Letters "I thid it's {antash'c. How much more desirable" than high kicks." The singing, patrons did not see fit to "C'est Magnifique!" can you hate the guy. Nobody performances of the ND/SMC dancing and costuming were attend. joe Musumeci knows enough about him." Th~~~~asWM~d ~ ~y roocefm in J~s ~----------~~------------------------~ 
and American Buffalo. I interpretation o Cabaret ahd I 
Pt'lll. )/.l..t..,({/
wonder if Mr. Musumeci is am surprised that a theatre ( /-1aware that the longest running enthustast such as Mr. shows on Broadway are, in Musumeci did not realize this fact, musicals such as obvious component of the Cabaret? production. 
Why was Cabaret such a I agree that it is unfortunate success on the ND campus? that not all ND/SMC Theatre Probably because of the phe-productions are not as well nomenal talent and effon of attended as was Cabaret, but director ] eff Mousseau, pro-d~wnplayi~g the success of ducer Ed McNally, choreo-thts show 1s a poor attempt to grapher Colleen Quinn, vocal upstage the lesser success of director Anita Ramker, and others. conductor Bob O'Donnell. It 
Margie Fink
may also be due to the talent and theatrical reputation of 
Author's note:
case members such as Mike Kelly, Frank Gabriele, Doon Odd I should have wom'ed Wintz, Betsy Quinn, Raul about interpretations of Aporte!a, and John theatre when the problem Davenport. Would it be out of seems to be interpreta#on of line to also suggest that the my wn'ting. A.t no point did I performance of the freshman ''abuse'' Cabaret nor did I sensation Ora Jones had a bit downplay its success. In fact, I to do with the success of stated that I was not trying to Cabaret? under-rate a fine production 



Editorial Board Department Managers
==Ihe-~ObseLVer== 
The Ob rert•er is an independent newspaper published by the students of the 
Ftlilrwin-l.bit~(. .\lldud \tonk Jlusiii<'S.~ Uanag<'r . . . . .Ton~· A1dlo 
Un1ver'lty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not n(.'(es~ar1ly 
.ltimtlgin.~ /itlilur ..I{\ an Yl'C lkrkmot·~ C:onltvllt•r . . ........ Eril· Sdlult. 
rcfk"tt the policie~ of the admin~~tration of either institution. The news i~ report­
F.\'I'Otlil'<' St•u·s Ftlitor... . ... 1\.l·lh Flint :ltlt'l'l'lisin8 .11111/ilg<'l'... . ...........Chris Owl·n 
ed as a(curately and as objcct1vdy as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of .\II< Vt•u•s Ftltlor. .\l;1rgarl'l hl~llllll' l'rotludion.\ltlllllg<"l'.. . ... /\laura Murphy .1 ma1or1ty of the Ed1tonal Board: Co.nmentaries, opinions and letters are the views 
.\f1111U l:tlilor . ..Cim~ ~l'l'lii<'~ C:inulalirm .Htma,~<·r .. . .................. l{ay lnglm 
of thm authors. Column space is available to all members of the commun1ty, and 
ftlilorials J:tlilor . . .. . . ... .Paul \ld .inn .\)·s/('11/S .lltlllttg<'l' ............... llrun· Oakky 
the free expression of varying opimons on campus, through letters, ili en,oun.ged. 
i'l'lllllrl"S l:'tlilor .. . . .Tan Brown l'hol111:'tlilor .. .... Rad1d Blou111 Founded November .i, 1966
P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) l39-H03 
~SH0 WCfi~SiiiiiEiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiFridiiiiiay,
Aiiiiipril23iiiii, -paiiiiige8
198iiiii2 

Kasimierz Braun directs The Card Index 
Kazimierz Braun, guest artist and awards internationally. He present, thus repudiating the arion, advertisements, too everytime. from Wroclaw, Poland, is pre­has also published many essays linear perspective of "fact." In many possibilities and choices, Dr. Braun sums up his sently directing The Card Index and books on the subjects of Braun's words, "Rozewicz has too many religions for sale, too artistic and directorial approach by Tadeusz Rozewicz, the final contemporary culture, theatre, taken from his poetry a tend­many leaders to trust. We can in the professional theatre: "I play of the Notre Dame/Saint acting, directing, and theatrical ency to condense words, to use recognize in the "hero" of The like to use realistic elements, Mary's Theatre Subscription space. metaphorical situations." The Card Index the face of many of characters, props, and Series. Original departmental Professor Braun has chosen a Card Index is intertwined with us. The other characters in the costumes but afproach them plans called for the famed play that is a contemporary pantomime, human beings play are equally undefined. through unusua behavior of 

classic ofPolish theatre, written appearing as animals, and the What makes them important is actors, thus breaking illusion 
by one of the best contemporary dead meeting the livin~. that they represent typical and making the whole compos­
Polish playwrights, Tadeusz AJlay of poetic real1sm, The human creatures and basic ition non-realistic. I also believe 
Rozewicz. Dr. Braun calls The Car, Index is a contemporary human relationships. that the theatrical performance 
Card Index "a play for the Everyman. The play centers The action of the play is is a live process which occurs
theatre preview 
theatre written by a poet." Dr. around one main character, the disconnected. Generally speak­here and how among people_ 
Braun is a close friend of "hero.," described by the ing, the events in a plot can present. This is a process which Polish director to direct a Tadeusz Rozewicz and · has author as being "of indeter­have a realistic or non-realistic connects actors and spectators. Shakespeare comedy, but his directed many of the poet's minate age, occupation, and logic of development. In The I believe that this might occur detainment in Poland due to the plays in Poland and abroad, apl?earance.'' The hero is a Card Index the logic is non-real­here also during the perform­conditions created by the 1ncludin~ a production of· wnter, an intellectual, or istic. The action of the play has ance of our Card Index.'' enforcement of martial law Rozewicz s Birthrate in the simply a common citizen. He is poetic logic. Links of the action The Card Index OP.ens on April forced a change in the depart­Dublin Theatre Festival. also a nonperson, everybo~y, emerge from the hero's 23 and runs April 24, 29, 30, ment's plans. Rozewicz calls for and prac­everyman of contemporary ctv­memory, subconscience and and May 1 on the O'Laughlin 
Dr. Braun is the Artistic tices a new drama that, by ilization, unable to act because dreams. The action is a stream stage (Saint Mary's campus). Director of the Contemporary fragmenting surface reality, life is too complex, too difficult; of poetic imagination. The Seating will be limited and Theatre in Wroclaw, Poland. 'breaks down the events of the · there are too many customs to action takes place here and curtain is at 8 f.m. For ticket He has won numerous prizes play and merges past and follow, too many facts, inform-now, but also everywhere and information, cal 284-4176. 
Abiogenesis displays contagious energy 
ABIOGENESIS n. production of living things from inanimate matter; spontaneous genera­tion. 
Wednesday evening at 8 
p.m. in Washington Hall, Notre Dame community had the opportunity to see Abiogenesis Dance Collective come alive with their final 1981-82 concert 
Holly Searczr 
dance review 
series. Like a gardener generating fruit, vegetables, and flowers, Angela Allyn Adamson, company director, carefully grew dances from ideas seeded in her mind. 
The opening dance, directed by Adamson, set an informal mood for the evening. Dancers came from the audience to warm up to music by George Benson. The second dance, Blue jeans by company member Celia Maneri, brought Jor dash Jean ads alive and onstage. Bugs gave us a special insight into ... Bugs. The four male bodies moving with such 


obi 
c.ollec+iv~ 
John Cage's sounds, created an environment very different from all of the other pieces. Floor Patterns and Mixed Crossings dealt with the drama ofpeople as expressed by their bodies, and shaped by their environment and emotions. The very catchy tune and dance New York, New York, choreo­graphed by Norma Johnson, gave the audience a lift to conclude the first half of the concert. 
Feetish opened the second half of the concert and dealt 
I 
shoes. A black curtain hung downstage, concealing the upper bodies while fourteen feet interacted emitting feel­ings of love, hate, and happi­r.ess. Tuff Life choreographed by Kerry Axelsson, music by Pat Benatar, showed three girls illuminated by blue lights positioned in chairs. The tuffness was expressed in the girls' faces, by their gestures and postures in and out of the chairs. Notes from inside dramauc piece danced and choreographed by Adamson. Music was traditional Japanese Court music. Costumed in a long black dress, contrasting a large white frame, Adamson wreathed, dropped, reached, hung, extended, dropped, lifted her bodyin sculptural shapes directed by her inner emotions amplified by the .Japanese flutes, drums, and sticks, limited by the frame withn which and upon which she 
4 Women dealt with a lighter side of female emotions compared to the previous solo. As the four women glided in and out of four pools of light inheriting each others' ofemng gestures, the feelings o wait­rng, listening and wonder were emitted. 
The concert concluded with full company in An American Dream. A wonderful sound collage by Keith Madden and Michael Villano set the environ­ment for this dream, or night­mare as the case may be. Dancers dressed in black, in shorts and T-shirts with various words painted on back bearing brooms in cheerleading skirts carrying American flags, dancers rolling, disco dancing, waltzing, swimming, battling each other... ' •an American dream" allowed for imagina­
tions of the audience to blossom finding their own dreams, or nightmares. 
Angela Adamson is a very capable and talented director for this young company. With dance techmque lacking in certain dances, the overall aliveness and energy of this company is quite contageous. Set dates aside to see 
insect exactness, amplified by with comic reactions of feet and myself~as a very powerful and danced. Abiogenesis next year. 
The Observer Features Section 
A tradition of grace 
"Hookers" is their trade name. "Lilies of the alley," James Joyce called them. "Pavement princesses'' is the snickering euphemism favored by Johnny Carson. Paules is the French word used by Hemingway. "Tarts" is how they are crisply designated by the English. Gen­erally, the hope is high they're going to make it home. In world literature, they get a better press chan priests do. 
Rev. Robert Griffin 
letters to a lonely god 
A Protestant once said: "The Catholic Church is the only respectable organization in the world that isn't beastly to tarts." That isn't a bad credential for the Catholic Church to have. Much can be forgiven an organization that isn't beastly. It doesn't help minority groups to sentimentalize them. The back street lives of prostitutes can be as vicious as any jungle; r.imps drop them from hotel windows, they say, 1f they get out of line. But the Church is kind to them. Bless the good heart of the Roman Catholic Church. 
When you think of it, the Church gets deeply involved 10 the sadness of the world. A couple of years ago, I was in a parish where a man, believed to be notoriously evil, with Mafia connections, was shoe to death. He was Sicilian, and we knew at the rectory his family would ask for Catholic burial; we waited for the funeral home to call, asking for the services of a priest. You have to understand that such lapsed Christians are an embarassment to the diocese. Newspapers love to play up the fact that clerics have publicly prayed over criminals, asking God to have mercy on their souls. 
In the case of this Mafia overlord, the Church had to refuse him an elaborate send-off because of the scandal, to say nothing of the contradic­tion between his personal lifestyle and the Chrisrianhope.Nevertheless,aprieswasthere­a personal friend, the papers said, acting in a pnvare capacity -to pray at the wake, and to pray at the graveside. 
You can make of it what you will. For me, it was another example of the Church's not being beastly.
There is a moral darkness that covers the earth like night. Any single priest might be the biggest fool on earth; bur within Christianity, there is a tradition of grace that understands the mystery of evil, insofar as evil is unintelligible. If corruption is the handiwork of the father of sin, then mischief, in irs cold-blooded maliciousness, may be as cleverly plotted as the cosmic dance of the planets. The priest, in his daily insouciance, 
may offer redemption, all-knowingly, to the 
heart of darkness, declarin~ by his rituals an 
infinite pity and an unrelentmg mercy, causing 
the Thin~ that corrupts us to weep for itself, 
because It eternally hates what it everlastingly 
loves. 
On Ash Wednesday, in Catholic cities, women come from the fancy-houses to be smudged on their foreheads with the dust of penance. On First Fridays, aging madams arrive at early Mass, hopmg for grace, through Margaret Mary, from the Sacred l-ieart, that will open their way to heaven. In execution chambers in prisons, chaplains keep the death watch with condemned murderers. In a bleak Russian winter, Sonya, prostitute and saint, sits reading the Gospel with her only friend, Raskolmikov, who has killed an old pawnbroker and he sister with an axe. In seedy, back-alley dives of Asia Minor, assassins and taxi drivers with death in their eyes ask monastic mercenaries for the sacrament that absolves them. Souls in torment, who have made bargains with the devil, pray to see Christ's blood streaming over the firmament. The room clerk at the Metropole, the Phoenician sailor, and Madame Sosostris, the wickedest clairboyante in Europe, wait, like Mrs. Porter, for the coming of Sweeney in the spring, and the sound of April rain, signifying grace, among the dry stones of the mountam. 
For a number of summers in New York, the rectory where I was living had neighbors known to be ladies of the evening. Late at night, I would run into them, having a coffee break at the counter of the Broadway Muffinburger in Manhattan. They had seen me often enough to know who I was, even in mufti. I would listen to them making shop talk, or offer them the benefit of any news I had heard -about the races at Belmont, for example, or the weather that I thought would help them. 
After a number of weeks, the counterman mentioned that the girls really thought they were helping me. "A lonely middle-ager, looking for company, needing someone to talk to," he said, that's who they thought I was. "They feel sorry for you," he said. "They know you don't mean anything bad." 
That's the way it is in New York: of all the street people with professions that bear watchin&[ the hookers are most polite to the 

priests. hey show very little respect for guyswhom they consider cheap sports, and their-idiom can turn salty and beastly. 
I think we represent some truth about God to 
one another. Hookers have a favored place in the tradition of grace; the Lord seems to have loved them more than anyone. I have some senti­mental idea that His gentleness in judging us depends on our kindness to the street people He himself bel ed. 
Trivia Quiz XXIV 
I hope you enjoyed last week's change of pace in the rock trivia. My editor was kind enough to allow me to 
carry out a photo quiz. 
Tim Neely 
trivia quiz 
Things return to the normal state of affairs this week, but first, heR: are last week's answers. You will have to check last Wednesday's paper for the pictures with each. 
1. Beggar's Banquet by the Rolling Stones. 
2. Thick as a Bnck by Jethro Tull. 
3. Chicago XI. 
4. Nazzby Nazz (this late-60s group included Todd Rund­gren) 
5. Beauty and the Beat by the Go-Go's 
6. Back to the Epg by Wings 
7. Greetings  from  Asbury  
Park,  N.J.  by  Bruce  Spring­ 
steen.  

B. Pictures at an Exhibition 
by Emerson, Lake, and Palmer. 
9. Here and There by Elton John. 
10. Yesterday and Today by the Beades (original issue known as the ''butcher cover': to Beatie fans and other collect­ors.) 
So much for that; now on to new business. This week I offer you a quiz the idea for which came once before, but not with these questions. You must answer the eternal question: "Who am I?" 
1. 
I was once a member of the all-girl group based in Los Angeles called The Runaways. That band broke up after some limited success, and I became a solo artist for one album. Not satisfied with that, I formed a band of men to back me up ... and had a number one smgle and tor,-ten album. 

2. 
I wrote' Joy to the World" and "Never Been to Spain" for Three Dog Night, and "No NO Song'' for Ringo Starr; despite this songwriting success I have never even come close to hav­ing a hit record even though I have released many, many LPs. 


3. I  was  the  original  lead  
singer  of the  Jefferson  Air­ 
plane.  

4. I was known in Britain as an outstanding session bassist, having played on many hit records of the sixties. (I also recorded a single of my own, ''Baja''/''A Foggy Day m Viet­nam," which went nowhere.) In late 196B, I joined a heavy­metal supergroup, and the rest is history. 
5. 
I left the Monkees before they officially split up. 

6. 
Speaking of the MOnkees, I am the man responsible for them. I am also responsible (at least in part) for the success of the Archies, Neil Sedaka, Kan­sas, and more rock acts than you could name quickly. 

7. 
And still speaking of the MOnkees, I auditioned for them but was turned down. How­ever, I went on to more lasting fame than those four moptop nnttators, as I became a mem­ber of The Buffalo SprinWield and later a "supergroup.' 


B. I was the first member of the Eagles to leave the band. 
9. 
There are two prominent rock stars with my name. One of me is a Foreigner; the other of me is a member of The Clash. 

10. 
I am the last original member of the Doobie Bro­thers. 


Friday, Apri123, 1982 -page 9 

One ofthe violinists oj the Pnmavera Stn'ng Quartet performing Mozart's ''Quartet in C Major, K. 465 ''last night in Saint Mary's Little Theatre. [Photo by Carne Koplin] 
Primavera Quartet blends sounds 
Playing a program of 
diversilled moods and styles, the Primavera String Quartet
from Manhattan entenamed a 
crowd of 175 people last night in Saint Marys Little Theatre. 
Violinist Martha Caplin was outstanding as she led the four through Mozart's "Quartet inC 
=====================~~=============f Major, K. 465," Ruth Crawford 
Seeger's "String Quartet," and 
Beethoven's "Quartet in E minor, Op. 59 No. 2." 
Bruce Oakley 
. . 
mus1c rev1ew 
The group, comprised of Caplin, violinist Mitsuru Tsubota, violist Diann Jezurski and cellist Melissa Meell, brought a subtle energy to the Mozart piece. The selection is one ofsix the composer dedicat­ed toFranzJosefHaydn, whose Quartets influenced the formu­lation of Mozart's works. 
The piece builds from a sharply dissonant first move­ment to an increasingly forceful, harmonious blend of the four instruments, and "Primavera" handled the transformation beautifully. The artists were ~uite successful in bringing to life Mozart's con­cepuon of a musical conver­sation in four equally resonant voices. 
The group's next offering, a 20th century piece by Ruth Crawford Seeger, presented a stunning contrast to the Mozart selection. More akin in emot­ional quality (and perhaps ina tonal sense as well) to the protest songs that made stepson Pete Seeger a force in folk music than to the harmony of Mozart's piece, Seeger's work is a study in contrapuntal tension. 
"Primavera" worked master­fully through the varying forms of disunity in the quartet's movements, which seemingly protest against an age in wh1ch harmony has become im­possible. The four instruments worked in a kind of unity of disunity in some cases, with each taking a equal part, while at other times a single instru­ment, usually Catlin's violiln, dominated. 
Beethoven's quartet, played afte a bried intermission, was a welcome emotinal break from the draining discord of Seeger's work. Cellist Meell brought her graceful, yet powerful play to the fore here, just right for Beethoven's intensely emotional, energetic selection. 
Tsubota and J ezurski performed skillfully in balanc­mg the changing moments of power and gentleness that give the piece its emotional impact. 
As always throughout the evening, each member of the group played her role to per­fection, dominating or blending with the others to bring the most out of the selection. 
''Primavera,'' founded in 1975 when the artists were in their early 20's, won the Naumburg Foundation Award for Chamber Music and have performed extensively on the East Coast and in New York. 
1 
I 
~ 
I 
Observer Features 
Friday, April23, 1982 -page 10 

Riding out on my own 
"Like Mother, Like Daughter'' may be a way of life for some, but without a daugh­ter's conscious examination of how her mother has influenced her throughout her life, a young woman may not emerge into adulthood with her won iden­tity. 
Mary flgnczs Carczy 
features 
As a 22-year-old ready to graduate from college, uncertain of what my life will be, I've thought extensively about my mother's life when she was my age. 
After high-school graduation 
my mother was ready to leave 
Star City and head directly to 
Mishawaka (both Hoosier 
towns) for nursing school, an. 
unusual a~tion for a far~ girL 
whose fnends were etther 
marryin~ or staying at home to 
help wtth the crops. After 
nurses training she made her 
home in Kokomo, Ind., for . 
three years before choosing to 
marry and raise eight boys and , 
yours truly. . 
College wasn't the rebellious 
step for me as it was for my 
mother, but her eagerness to 
establish her independence 
away from her family is 
a trait 
I'm to share. 
nine children, however, ts another issue. 
One of the· most interesting things to watch while I was growing up was my mother's treatment of the boys and myself. Although I tended to receive more domestic duties than my siblings, the work was equally divided. 
Everyone had turns with the dishes. Sometimes I helped out in the yard or with cleaning the storm windows. We all carried newspaper routes at one time or another and were expected to work through high school and college summers to defray education expenses. When college and careers were dis­cussed-, my goals and dreams were (and still are) just as important as the boys'. ralways know that I can ''go for broke" in my mother's eyes; she doesn t expect me to. feel inhibited in any area because I am a woman. 
My mother, however, has made traditional choices for her life: family over career (yet her medical training helped greatly in J!!.9!~rhood) and a male­dominated household wher~ my father (usually) had the last word. I respect her decisions ­she made them and has enjoyed the years. 
More opportunities are open to women now as they burst into·· fields they never thought they'd have a chance in. Mother didn't dream oftrekking cross-country­for employment, a reality I face in journalism, my chosen profession. Personal desire as well as basic economics compel me to continue my career into marriage, J:>robably even after 
having children. 
My_ vision of parenting, too, is different. For me it's more of a 50-50 proposition with dad helping out in the delivery room,. through the ni~ht feedings and during totlet training all the way through to adolescence and beyond. I'd like to show my children a marriage where dad helps with the housework and mom under­stands the family car while we both take an active interest in each other's outside careers a well as family life. 
In Gail Sheehey's book Passages she describes how many women plan their lives until their early twenties, expecting a man to symbolically carry them off on . a white stalhon. · galloping into the futui-e. My mother never waited for that and neither will I. 
Although I;m sure our lives will be different, she's taught me· that it's time to get my own horse. 
Book dispels myths ofsexuality 
Nancy Friday's research on male and female sexuality has recently pushed her to the forefront of authorities on a popular American topic, "the 
search for self.'' Subtitled The Daughter's Search for Identity, My Mother/Myself was , released in 1977. Ori~inally intended to be a senes of interviews with mothers and daughters, the study evolved into a deeper work with the inclusion of professional advisors and the author's story of her won search for identity. 
Stacczy Wikcz 
book review 
~ i 
\ 
Friday's opinions give the study subjective overtones which contribute to My Mother I Myself's main strengths and weaknesses. Her personal anecdotes add interst and unity yet, prevent scientific objectivity. Thts lack of objecti­vity is admitted by the author, . though, and does not prevent it from being a valid analysis of the subject. 
The illusion ofperfect mother 
love is cited to be the key 
obstacle in a daughter's search 
for identity. Friday expounds on the idea that society sees a mother's love as being a uni'l-ue kind oflove that is immune ' to error, doubt or to the ambiv­alence of ordinary affections." Another facet of the mother­love myth is described as the mother's often unconscious denial of her own sexuality in order to protect her daughter from the hazard of sex, preg-
The inability to fulfill the impossible mother image causes a woman to feel incom­plete. This dissatisfaction arises becaus she is only loved for playin~ the madonna and not for bemg herself. Yet, the woman strives futilly in all her relationships to combine the woman she feels she should be and the woman she is. Friday concludes that the basic re­quirement in a daughter's search for identity is the separ­ating ofoneself from the illus­ionary requirements imposed bymother. Once this is accom­plished a more authentic love can be established between mother and daughter. 
The author also discusses a mother's proper role concern­ins the issue of body controL Fndayquotes sex educator, Dr. Mary S. Calderone stating, '' ... mothers tend to ... get between their child's body and the child's self They msert themselves because they ap­parently feel they own the child's body." The importance of helping a daughter realize and socialize her own control of her body is clearly related to her body image and later acceptance of menstruation. Friday also claims that a girl has more difficulty in developing a healthy body image because unlike boys, their toilet training involved minimal contact with their genitals. Consequently; girls feel they have less control over their sex organs and feel more detached from them. 
Competition and woman's relationships with other women are also defined by our relation­ship with our mother. Friday uses the Oedipus complex, opposite sex plus competitive dnves against parent of same sex, to explain the basic drive in women to compete for men. This idea is expanded, though, by claiming, "It is the girl's struggle for recognitio!) for the 
limelight, for he }'face in the world with or without daddy's presence." The link has been · 
made once again and competi­tion among females is ultimate­ly rooted in their search for identity. 
In the search for identity, other adolescent girls "appeared in our lives like life rafts, bright welcoming alliances to carry us away into a new identity.'' Friday suggests that these friends take the place of our mothers and this explains why young girls demand ''tight intense friendships which are such a famous feature of the latency period.'' These friend­ships provide self-confidence and yer, often when an adoles­cent girl wants approval, she receives what the author labels, "The Rules." "THE Rules" put limits on sexual behavior, thereby reducing the threat of sexual encounters. Friday ex­plains that this is different from adolescent boys treatment of sex; "Men are tremendously reinforced by sexual talk. ' ' Girls, on the other· hand, are extricated from their friends if they surpass the limits clarified by "The Rules." 
My Mother/Myself explodes the myths about a mother's love and in the process sets women 
and  men  free.  Mothers  are  
ultimately  freed  from  the  
impossible  standards  of  the  

madonna image, which in turn freed generations of women 
THEATRE 
Tired of the Bookstore bleachers, sitting out in th'e cold, rain and gusting winds? If you are in desperate straits and want to find a better pair of seats try out the bleachers at O"laughlin Auditorium. Beginning this weekend and continuing next weekend, The Card Index written by one of the foremost contemporary playwrights in Poland will be presented by the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre. Seating is limited due to ~he spectator seats comonly known as bleachers. 
Off campus, The Prisoner ofSecond Avenue continues af the South Bend Civic Theatre. Neil Simon is the in thing this season (sort of like aJligators) and seeing as how we are all such fashio c0nscience people, it would be highly suggested that no one miss this theatrical experience. We wouldn't want to be ostracized from society now, would we? 
MUSIC 
Zing! It hits you in the face like a flash of light and a spark ofmusical genious. Chatauqua has the dubious honor of presenting a group of musicians this Friday night that have that rare quality of being able to do more than just play together. Dr. Zing and the Mojohandlers come to the stage with their unique music that comes from the heart and soul. And there is lots of soul in their music. Take an hour or two out and listen to these guys. I hear that an architect built this group well and strong. Doesn't take knowing too much about structures. Just a little feel for the beat. 
Oompa, oompa, oompa! Do you hear those seventy-six trombones playing in the middle of the night? Do your neighbors think you are from another time, like cut time or 6/8? If you have a penchant for brass and must hear th metallic sound of a trumpet blasting forth, at Washington Hall, Friday and Saturday the Department of Music will be presenting a Festival oj Brass. At 7:30 p.m. Friday and continuing at 2 p.m. and 8 p.m. Saturday, the Notre Dame Brass Ensemble will welcome the University of Michigan, the University of Illinois, Grace College, Michigan State University, Clarion State College, Eastman School of Music and the University of Akron will perform free of charge. Bras~ ensembles have existed for a long rime for secular and sacred use. This weekend will prove why. 
NAZZ 
Magicians are a dime a dozen (and who isn't these days?) but Mark Davis is one of rhe best and the Nazz this weekend p~es~nts the Mark Davis Show to close out its year. The h1ghhg~t of the show will be his prediction of the final two teams 10 Bookstore Basketball. On the same ticket, The AII-J?uf/alo Band,_ that great jamming group, coming stratgpt from the1r s~ccessful engagement next to the Washmgton Hall stage 10 American Buffalo last month will be gracing the stage with their sound. Check it' out 
beginning at 8:30. 
MOVIES 
This is not the weekend to take the nieces and nephews to 
the movies. Both widely successful in their original runs,. 
Arthur and The Godfather, Part II will probably continue 
that success bur only with your help. Godfather is showing 
at the Engineering Auditorium Friday and Saturday at 7 
and 10 p.m. If you are getting claustrophobic because of 
Emil or Biology in Cushing Hall, take a stroll over to Carroll 
Hall at Saint Mary's and see Arthur. Friday and Saturday at 
7, 9 and 11 p.m. Take your pick but whatever you do, pick 
one. 
LOOKOUT 
If you are extremely interested in the newest innovations 
in traditional . chamber instruments and music, the 
Michiana New Music Ensemble, a group of professional 
musicians who specialize in the performance of music 
written in this century, will flresent their debut concert on 
Thursday, Apri129 at 8 p.m. 10 Moreau Hall's Litle Theatre 
at Saint Mary's Collese. The instrumentation will include 
the use of the electnc flute, electric cello, and electric 
piano. One work; inspired by the sounds of whales, is 
entitled, oddly enough, ''Voice of the Whale''. In addition, 
the group has in. their repertoire a piece called "Blake 
Songs," ten poems by WiJliam Blake, set to music by 
English composer Ralph Vaughan Williams. Check this out 
is the academic scene begins to get you down. 


Sj)orts~J3~r~ie~~~S~==~~==================&=idaTy,=A=pru=2=3,=19=8=2-=pa=ge=u 
lh The ( )/Jserr•er and !be Associated Pres. 
THE ND/MSC ULTI-MATE FRISBEE club will be in action this weekend. For more information or if you are interested in participating, call Barb at 284-4070 (SMC). -The Observer 
THE ND GOLF TEAM will participate in the Mid-American Invitational 54-hole tournament on Sunday and Monday at Western Michigan University. The Irish are coming off what Coach Noel O'Sullivan termed "the worst defeat I've ever had as a coach" in finishing in last place out of 23 teams in last weekend's Kepler Invitational. -The Observer 
COACH TOM FALLON'S Notre Dame tennis team defeated Indiana Universiry yesterday afternoon, 6-3, at the Courtney Tennis Center. Victorious for the Irish were Mark McMahon, Tom Hartzell, Tom Robison, Mike Gibbons, Tom Pratt and the doubles team of McMahon and Paul• Idzik. Thi's afternoon, the Irish (20-8) play host to Marquette at Courtney beginning at 3 p.m. Then on Sunday, ND travels to Kalamazoo College for a 1 p.m. match. -The Observer 
COMING OFF ITS 15-10 loss to Denison on Wednesday, the Notre Dame lacrosse team travels to Ashland ~olleg;e tomorrow for an important 1:30 p.m. match. Earher t~1s season, on April 7, ND defeated Ashland, 12-7. Coach Rtch O'Leary's Irish are now 6-5 on the season. -The Observer 
THE DRAKE RELAYS one of the most prestigious track meets in America, wil'l provide the competition for the Notre Dame track team this weekend in Des Moines, Iowa. Competition begins today and continues tomorrow, starting at 1 p.m. CDT both days. -The Observer 
DIGGER PHELPS will coach a squad of Midwest all-stars in tomorrow night's Sertoma All-Star game at Butle Univer­sity's Hinkle Fieldhouse. Willis Reed of Creighton wil coach the other squad, make up of players from throughout the rest of the country. Only one of the 21 players selected by the host Sertoma Charities is not eyeing a pro basketball career -6-9 Pete Metzelaars of Division III champion Wabash. Besides Metzellars, Phelps' Midwest team has 6-5 Keith Edmonson of Purdue, 6-4 Michael Wilson of Marquette, and 6-3 Skip Dillard of DePaul. Seven-foot center Wallace Bryant of San Francisco will play· on Reed's squad. -AP 
AN TOSTAL'S INNERTUBE WATERPOLO tournament has reached the Final Four. Yesterday afternoon, "Dick Moby and the Sperm Whales" defeated "Belushi's Coke Chokers," 12-5. Then, "Lust Bombs" edged "Neptune's Nymphs," 16-11, while "The Pack's Back" blasted "Poukeepsie," 17-2. The semifinals will take place today at the Rock, with "Dick Moby ... " facing "J. Arthur and the Travelling H ... Take it to the High Seas" at 4 p.m., with "Lust Bombs" taking on "The Pack's Back" at 5:20. The championship and consolation gamf's will take place tomorrow afternoon. The consolation round gets underway at 4 p.m. with the finals immediately following at 4:40. ­
The Observer 
ALL PROSPECTIVE 1982-83 Notre Dame Ski Team members must contact Bill Panny (6770) or Sean Chandler (1416) immediately. --the observer 
AN TOSTAL'S PING-PONG tournament concludes tomorrow evening in the basement of LaFortune. The original field of 77 contestants has been reduced to 4. The semifinals begin at 5:30, with the final round to be played immediately afterward. -The Observer 
DESPITE LOSING 68-63 yesterday to a tough Marion College squad, the Saint M~ry' ~ track team was su~cessful in placing four more entnes mto next wee~end s sta~e championships: Liz Brady in the 800 meters, Cmdy Short m the 400 and open 200 meters, t~e 4 x ~00 meter relay team of Teresa Moriarity, Kerry Klem, Elame Brenner an~ B~rb Holsinger, and the 1600-meter relay team of Monanry, Brady, Short and Annette Iso_n~. That means the ~ell~s, m just their first year of compeuuon, have place entnes m 18 out of the 19 events in the state compeution -every event except for the 100-meter hurdles. 
THE SMC SOFTBALL TEAM is on a roll. Yesterday, the Belles swept another doubleheader, this one from Manchester College, 5-3 and 6-4. The Belles have now won ten straight. Mary Bayless was the winning pitcher in the opener, with Teresa McGinnis (two singles) and Mary Beth Hosinski (two singles and a triple) leading the hitting attack. In the nightcap, Hosinski picked up the victory and also helped her own cause with a single and a double. Tomorrow will be a busy day, as Saint Mary's will play four games. At 10 a.m., the Belles will play a doubleheader with Evans ville University, and then at 2 p.m., will take on Anderson College in a twinbill, all at home. SMC is now 14-6 on the season. -The Observer 
TWO HOME DOUBLEHEADERS are on the agenda this weekend for the Notre Dame baseball team. Tomorrow, the Irish face Dayton. University,_ while o~ ?un~y the University of Detroit pays a v1s1t. Both twmbdls wdl take place on Jake Kline Field beginning at 1 p.m. -The Observer 
THE ND CREW TEAM will host a four-team rowing regatta on Saturday against Grand Valle;:. State College, . the University ofChtcago, and Culver Mdttary Academy. E1ght 2000-meter events will be held between 12:30 p.m. and 3:30 
p.m. in various mens and_women's categories. The races will be held at the Mtshawaka Manna, located on Jefferson Blvd. about six miles east of campus. -The 
Observer 
BEN OGUVIE belted a two-run homer and Cecil Cooper lined a bases-empty shot, powering the Milwaukee Brewers to a 7-0 victory over the Toronto Blue Jays last night behind Mike Caldwell's four-hitter. Caldwell, 1-1, pitched his first complete game since last June 8, walking only one batter and striking out none. In other major league action yesterday, Chet Lemon hammered a tape-measure, two-run homer into a rarely­reached section of Yankee Stadium and Jack Morris scattered six hits to lead the Detroit Tigers to their sixth straight victory, a 3-1 triumph over the New York Yankees. The Yankees have lost all three home games this season. Reserve outfielder Joe Charboneau and center fielder Rick Manning each drove in two runs to power the Cleveland Indians to a 4-3 victory over the Texas Rangers. Cleveland starter Len Barker, 2-1, held Texas hitless until a single by rookie Mike Richarkt in the fifth. Barker left after opening the seventhy by surrendering two walks and a single, and Dan Spillner came on to record his first save of the season. 
Jim Essian drilled two hits and drove in two runs to highlight a seven-run third inning and Richie Zisk added a two-run double in the same inning as the Seattle Mariners defeated the Minnesota Twins 8-4. Mike Moore, 1-2, the nations's number one selection in last June's amateur free-agent draft, registered his first major league career victory as he pitched 5 2-3 innings and gave up three runs. ­
The Observer 
. .. Braves 
continued from page 13 
Preceding Mathews' clout, Jones ar~ued that he was hit with a pttch by the Yankees' Tommy byrne. Home plate umpire Augie Donatelli was not convinced of the collision until Jones pointed out a bit of polish from his shoe on the ball, 
The following season, Milwaukee won the National League pennant but lost a seven-game World Series to the Yankees after loading three games to one. Bob Turley won Game Seven for the Yankees, and the Braves went 11 years before winning another champ­ionship. 
In Atlanta and with a new divisional setup, the Braves won the NL west in 1969 with 93 victories, but they lost the league playoffs to the miracle New York Mets, who went onto win their only World Series. That was 13 years ago. 
It has been a long, dry spell for the Braves. 
There have been some historic moments at Atlanta­Fulton Counry Stadium. Aaron hit record-breakins home run No. 715 in the stadmm on April 8, 1974. Pete Rose's 44-game hitting streak ended in the park in August of 1978 when Gene Garber struch him out in his last at-bat. 
These respites from frustra­tion have been little consolation to baseball fans who have asked for just one thing -a winner. 
The month of April, 1982 finally has produced some hope for a new era. the Braves broke the modern major league record by winning the!t 12th game in a row at the start of the season last Tuesday. In amassing the dozen victories, they scored an average of 5.16 runs per game while holding the opposition to 2.58. 
Chris Chambliss, Claudell Washington and Dale Murphy have provided the substance of healthy offense, while waiting for slugging third baseman Bob Horner to overcome his normal spring slump. Sophomore right­hander Rtck Mahler and­veteran reliever Garber have supplie.d pitching. 
Atlanta fans are now asking, 
''How Ions can this last?'' 
Chambhss replies: "We're 
not flukes. We re not fly-by 
nighters." 
Classifieds 
NICE HOUSES FURNISHED CLOSt TO NO FOR NEXT YEAR 2773604 
._I_No_T_Ic_Es___.l LOST/FOUND \
I For Rent: Studenl Houstng·rated super10r·summer and/or fall Clean, safe. laundry, utililies. $100/mo total. 291· 1405 FOUND A bracelet at the Stanford
HAIRCUTS! ONLY $4 FOR GUYS AND 
Vegetable party. To claim call6738. 
$6 FOR GIRLS .. LOT OF EXPERIENCE Subleastng Campus View Apt. Jun.-Aug IN STYLING. ROTC AND PERSONALLY Reduced Rent. Call Anne Or Mary 4637 JESIGNED CUTS FOR YOUR FACE (SMC) AND HAIR CALL MICHOLE AT 7951 ATTENTION: To whoever ··borrowed" my 
wallet and watch from the student 
Furmshed House for next year · 6 bdrm 2 securrty. The watch has great senttmental bath $540 per mo. 717 St. Louts Call Tom Experienced typtsl Will do typtng Call value, and n would take me about 69 McGann 277·3461 or 272·9299 287·5162 Good speller weel<s to replace all of the stuff 1n the wal· let. No questions Will be asked SUMMER SUBLESSEES WANTED! Comlonable. tully turntshed, 2 bdrm apt1n SUMMER WORK $$$ NO stuoeots avg 
H1ckory V1llage II Interested call Carol or 4000$ last summer travel expenence 
LOST: 1 pr. of eyeglasses with black 
Mtchele at 272·9603 send name address and phone no to 
case Between or 1n LaFortune and 
Cavanaugh Help! Call Ed xl470
P 0 BOX 435 N D ,lnd 46556 SUMMER SUBLET 1258 PORTAGE AVE GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD 1 or 2 persn apl call 289 5931
You ve heard about IL you·ve been wa1t1ng all year for tf .finally. now IS your chance to -Mike "Qorgr' OUrd8k 1n FOR RENT Be your own boss Comfonabte 5 at1w:>n th1s 
bedroom. completely turntshed house for 5 or 6 Close to campus Phone 288·3942 
----·------·-· 
LOST Navy blue NIKE sweat pants at N D Ave Apts · Apts avatlable lor sum· Stepan Courts during Bool<store Basket· mer 
4 Bdrm N Shore $270 mo total Call Patty 
160/month 3193228735 Call refunded ball Call Tim 6g84 and next school year 234·6647 
2 student houses for rent on Notre Dame Ave One 4-stu. one 5-stu house W1th1n walktng distance Avail I all semester 82 Call evemngs 272·6870 
WANTED 
Professor reqwres part-lime typ1st who has access to Commodore CBM Model 8032 System. Send spectltcs to PO Box 77, Notre Dame. IN 46556 
DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE TO 
DAVENPORT,  IOWA,  APRIL  23-25.  
WILL  SHARE  EXPENSES.  CALL  
CHERYL. 284-4528.  

Deaperat .... need one or more gradu• lion tlcketa. Ce11277·8032. 
Need nde to PURDUE lor Grand Pnx on Fn Apnl 23 Can leave anyttme Call Shem 6619 
·~·-· 
your old refngeralors wanted. small saze. worktng order 282·1777 
Person wanted to dnve new car to Phtladelphta week ol May 10 and return another car to South Bend wtlhtn ap· proxtmately 30 days Call 232·0453 before Apnl 23. 
The Observer w1ll accept classJfleds Mon· day through Fnday. tO a.m to 4.30 p.m However. ctass1fieds to appear 1n the next 1ssue must be rece1ved by 3 p.m. the bus1ness day pnor to 1nsertJon. All classtfteds must be prepatd. e1ther tn person or through the ma1l 
NEED 2 RIDERS TO INDPLS/DEPAUW Specl•t Dlacounta tor Notre Dame LEAVE 4/23 BILL 7289 faculty on computers and penpheral products. pnnters. modems. etc Hewlett· FOR TYPING CALL 288·5855 Packard, Zentth FOURWAY COM­
PUTER PRODUCTS, INC., 52758 US 31 Rtde or nders east on 1·80 as tar as N J North (Aero..from North V111age Mall) 4/22·4/25 Call Joe 1409 277-7720. 
Rtde needed to Toledo on Fnday. Apnl 
23. and back to NO Saturday, April 24 
THE BEST STEREO GEAR AT THE Call Denny at 1184 
LOWEST PRICES, BOSE H K JVC ALL TOP BRANDS OFFERED AT SPECIAL STUDENT RATES CALL JB
I FOR SALE I ~~.,~~::;~:~ ... I 
USED BOOK SHOP HOURS WED .1L -----------'­SAT SUN 9·7 CASPERSON 1303 BUCHANAN RD , NILES I VE GOT MONEY SELL ME YOUR EX· TRA GRAD TICKETSIII CALL BRIAN at FOR SALE MEO. SIZE FRIDGE 191NCH 
1928 
B&W TV CALL 1494 or 1536 MIKE or BOB 
I NEED TWO OR THREE TIX FOR KEN· NY ROGERS (ON MAIN FLOOR IF 
BEAUTIFUL FORD FIESTA 1980 wtlh POSSIBLE) PLEASE CALLJOHN x3175 5500 mtles, call277·4413 ntghls or mor· 
mng~ Wtll exchange BEER or $lor 1 graduallon 
ltcket Laura 6816 II s spnng!lll Time to think STEREOS Name brands at great pnces Now is the Wanted 2 NO Grad TIX Call and name 
Itme call Mtke at 1087 your pnce Dan 283·4639 
,The Observer -Sports Friday, April23, 1982 -page 12 

Drake Relays 
ND track teatn travels to Iowa
Cl LA 
()~fi~letl ~~~··~~" 
ByEARLRJX Sports Writer 
Su11cletl ~j 
Notre Dame's track team
liiJICtll [()Ufl"~ ()a4j Vlll 
travels to Des Moines, Iowa, to 
compete in the prestigious 

Drake Relays this weekend. 
Without the services of Paul 
Doyle, who would be a slight 
favorite in the decathalon, the 
Irish probably do not have a 
chance to win any events, but 
hope to place in several. 
Doyle, who currently has the second-best collegiate decatha­lon score in the nation, is nursing a damaging achilles tendon. "He would be our best chance for a medal,'' says sprint coach Ed Kelly. 
Notre Dame appears strong­est in the 4 x 400 relay and the sprint medley relay where Steve Dziabis, Jacques Eady, Mitch Van Eyken and Van Pearcy will run in both events. 
The four-mile relay team of Andy Dillon, Tim Cannon, Jim Tyler and Jim Moyar also has a chance to reach the finals in the hotly-contested meet. ''This and the Penn Relays are the m~st prestigious relay meets 10 the country," says Kelly, "and any time you get to the finals it is an accomplishment. It's hard to predict because I don't know where the other teams are strong and where the talent will be stacked up." 

Other Irish relay entries include the 4 x 100 team consisting of Eady, Bill Ribera, Van Eyken and Pearcy. The shuttle-hurdle relay team con­sists of John McCloughan, Ribera, Jun Christian and James Patterson. 
Moyar, Tim Macauley, Rick Rogers and Tyler will run the two-mile relay for the Irish. The distance medley relay will be comprised of Macauley, Ribera, Moyar and Cannon. 
The Irish have a chance to place in two individual events. Freshmen Patterson and Chuck Constable, who both placed third in the Indiana Inter­collegiates last weekend, will compete in the Ion~ jump and high jump, respectively. 
The balance of the team travels to Southwestern Mich­igan where they will compete in an open meet . 
. . .Spring 
continued from page 16 
day in the air, finishing 5-of-10 for 65 yards. O'Hara completed 3-of-5 for 56 yards with the first offense, marching 70 yards for a touchdown opposite the second defense. 
Tomorrow's format will resemble last week's -the scrimmage will be controlled, giving the coaches a chance to create a particular game-like situation. 
The playbook hasn't changed either. "We just hope we're better at the same things we did last week," Lichtenberg said. ''The offense moved really well at times, but I was really disappointed in our mental mistakes. We need to improve on that. 
"We were moving the ball, and then a holding call, a late smap, an offsides penalty ­those mistakes killed us. There's no excuse for that." 
Tony Hunter, Tim Marshall and Greg Bell all missed the 
· action last Saturday with injuries. Hunter is still nursing an ankle sprain, but Bell and Marshall are expected to play. Freshman Tom Doerger, who sat out last fall and the first halr of the spring following knee surgery, returned to the field this week and may see some time at center. 
After tomorrow, the receiver picture may look a little clearer. Juniors Mike Favorite and Bumper Schiro are battling for a clatm to the split end job. And because of injuries to Hunter and Pete Buchanan, fullback John Sweeney is doubling at tight end as well, and is pushing Mark Bavaro forD playing time there. "John has done a good job at both positions," offered Head Coach Gerry Faust. "He's intelligent enough to handle both." 
The Irish practice Monday, Wednesday and Friday next week before windin~ things up in the 52nd annual mtra-squad clash next Saturday . 
....IUIIUUIIJ...IIIJUIIu.aa&.IUJIUIUAU.........~ 
~THE OAR HOUSB ~ • Beer . ~ 
: L" Open t1ll :
5 • 1quor ; 
= 3·00am 111: 
= • Carry out · ..·· 
-SINGLES BAR -BOOZE &DANCING 272-7818 
/ (I block south of Holiday Inn) 
~lllllllatlllllllllllllfiiiiiiHIIIIIHIUINIIIIIII~ 

~--~ ~­
The Observer -Sports Friday, April23, 1982 -page 13 

... Bookstore 
continued from page 16 against the Five. Jeff Lueken and Steve Cichy also provide inside muscle. Point guard Mark Curley will have to slow things down for this club to win. TAKE THIS BALL AN SHOVE IT II · Any team with Mike Mitchell has to be respected. But this is by no means a one-man show. Mitchell is averaging seven points a contest. The rest of the scoring is evenly divided among the other four. Mike Kelley, a sophomore gridder, gets tough under the boards. Sophomore Geoq~e Marget is 13-of-22 for the tournament, while classmate Mike Spath is 19-of-36. Junior Chris Beaman scored mne in their first victory. This team wil probably be a crowd favorite because there are several frustrated Mike Mitchell fans on campus who want to see the senior exit in style. TALK PLENTY S ... AGAIN. What can be said about a team that allowed only 14 points in the first three games? These guys are quick, strong and dominating. But can they play as a team? Some people think not. But they may not have to, considering their wealth of talent. With Greg Bell back in the lineup (he was sidelined for foutr games), they are even more of a threat. Mansel Carter and Stacy Toran usually lead the scoring, but any one of the five can burn a team when he gets hot. Duane Dickens and 1981 Mr. Bookstore Tim Collins are the non-gridders. 
US · Last year It was "Tequila White Lightning," this year it's "US." This upstart "group of guys" defeated "Tequila ... " 21-7 on Wednesday. But the real shocker was a 27-25 victory over "Macri's Monkey Men." Freshman Casey Newell (a name to remember) scored 11 in that game and averaged nine points a game over the tournament. Sophomores Bubba Cunningham and Barry Fay and juniors Paul Deangelis and Rob McGarry provide an excellent supporting cast. 
Well, there you have them, the eight best teams in this year's tournament. And, now, time for the show. 
BOOKSTORE BRIEFS Starting umes tonight are S: 30 and 6: 15 on the bookstore courts ... Tomorrow's semifinal games will be at S 
p.m. and 6 p.m. behind the ACC... The championship game will be played at 2 p.m. Sunday behmd the ACC... An all-star game featuring the best of the North Quad against the best of the South Quad will be played at 1 p.m. Sunday ... At 3:30p.m. tomorrow, the Observer will attempt to defeat WSND for the first time this year in sporting competition ... Four of Bookstore's five past commissioners will attend this weekend's games ... Leo Latz (1978-79) and Tim "bone" Bourret (197S·76-77) wil join Rob Simari (1979-80) and myself... "Bookstore Goddess'' Mary Beth Sterling also will return for the festivities. 
SUMMER STORAGE SPACE 
Special discount for ND/SMC students (Sx lOspace $18.50permonth) 
CALL 259-0335 to RESERVE SPACE SELF LOCK STORAGE OF MCKINLEY
. 
816 East Me Kinley Mishawaka Security Patrol Checks 
t,._ 

Braves return to glory days 
A lLANT A (AP) • The Atlanta Boston to a 1-0 victory over of Milwaukee won the 1957 Braves believe, heart and soul, Cleveland's Bob Feller in the World Series over the New York that they have unlocked the first game of the 1948 World Yankees in seven games behind 
door to the glory days of Johnny Series. Those were the days of the three victories and 24 Sain and Eddie Stanky, and late the two-man pitching rotation consecutive shutout innings of of Lew Burdette, Eddie that prompted the slogan: the marvelous Burdette. Mathews and Henry Aaron. "Spahn and Sain, and pray for Aaron, a youns center fielder 
A few of their Atlanta-type rain.'' just beginmng h1s quest of the fans may even recall when the It was a Series the Braves all-time home run crown, hit Braves-first in Boston, then in would lose in six games .393 with three home runs and Milwaukee -played champion­because of a WWII navy veteral seven RBI for the Braves' onlyship baseball in those halycon by the name of Gene Bearden. World Series tide. Mathews days of post World War ll and Bearden, a Cleveland left­slugged a lOth-inning homer to ,..........................., ......., .....................................1 .... again 10 years later. bander, started and won Game win Game Four for Spahn, but 
They may remember the Three and performed master­it was a game probably better feisty second baseman named fully in a relief appearance in remembered for Nippy Jones' Stanky, the southpaw Warren the Series clincher. shoe polish. Spahn and the heroic perform­More of thos fans probably 
i SKY D~ i
ance of Sain, who pit':_h~d-will remember when the Braves 
See BRAVES page 11 
~ ~ ~ 
,. ~ ~ 
~ ...._ I 
I I ~ "' ~ ~ ~ I ,. 
I ~ i ~ SKYSTREAM II ~ STUDENT FIRST JUMP INSTRUCTION ~ 
~ TRAINING FEES: $85.00 per student training includes ~
! ~
ground school, first static line jump, equipment rental, '-! parachute packing, jump master, airlift. :i111f ~ GROUP RATES: Applicable only to individual groups. ~ ~ Group of 5 -$80.00 Grouup of 10-$75.00 '-! ~ STATIC LINE JUMPS: $18.00/ jump -need a minimum ~ :i111f of 5 static line jumps. ~ ~ STUDOl FREE FALL: $15.00/jump-up to 5,500 ft. ~ ~ Includes jump master, equipment rental & parachute ~ '-! packing. ~ 
~ STUDENT TRAINING CLASSES: ~! Start 9:00 A.M. Sat. & Sun. ~ 
'-! Come down and watch, our staff will answer any :i111f ~ questions you might hove. ~ 
~ DEFINITIONS: ~ ~ ~~:n;h~~~Ea~~~!atic~;~c:;~l~y~0~n;~~~~: :ir~li~~~u~ ~e ;'~~~ ! 
~ required. '-! :illl CUAI AIID PULL: Student jumps ond deploys chute immediately by ~ '-! pulling his ripcord. :illl ~ FlEE FALL: Delaying the pull until 2,500 ft., thus falling for a time ~ :i111f maintaining stable flight. '-! ~ ltEUTIYf WOitll (ltW): A num~r of jumpers together using hefall ~ '-! time to complete formations ot altitude. :i111f 011111 THE FU (FEDUAL AVIATID• ASSOC.) requires every jumper to wear ~ ~ two chutes-A main and a reserve. The reserve must~ packed by a '-! ~ FAA certified rigger. ~ 
~ For further information call: ' I Goshen Municipal Airport 533-8245 ~ 
~~................................................................................., ... 4 .. 
.. 
"' 

r 
Th.e Observer -Sports Friday, April23, 1982 -page 14 

r~-:"7-GffEAt-WAll-Ts;~ts~~~--1 

t Chinese & America.n Res-taurant 
t & Cocktail tounge 
carryOutAuaiJable 
-,.. t 1. Happy Hour 5:00.7:00 pm Mon.-Sat. . 
. ~ _Banquet rc:oms auailable Banquet & group rates aua1lable 
t Best Chi~Jese &American Food in Town t *Reasonably Priced sHospitable 
!:~EATURING: ~ 
Deep Fried Ocean Perch ...............2.50 
· t Beef Liver with Onions ..................... 2.50 t 
, Stew Beef with Noodles or Rice ........ 2.95 
' 
t Fried Dumplings .... · .......... ·..·..· ...... 2.95 l 3 50
' Roast Pork Fried Noodle................. . 
: Chicken Fried Rice Sticks .......... ·····.3.50 

COmE-AND SEE GREAT mOVIES
.. 
AND VIDEO SHORTS !!!! 
Hardly the 'ultim.ate season' 

Sports fans everywhere are on the ed~e of their collective seats this week, as the "ultunate season" continues. Take a look at the sports pages and you'll see what I mean. 
NHL Playoffs-after an 80 game season, who are we left with? Montreal is gone, Edmonton is gone. Minnesota is gone. The Islanders are struggling. The Bruins are in trouble. What's going on here? 
As if this pitiful excuse for a league doesn't have enough problems, it is now faced with the possibility ofa Vancouver-Quebec final. Ah yes. The world's ugliest uniforms, never having won a playoff series and a ridiculous name wasn't enough for the Canucks. They want to win. 
And at the other end of the map, there are the Nordiques. This team is built around three Czechi'ISlovakian brothers, is a refu~ee from the WHA (remember them?), and 1s about as exciting as a gray polyester suit. 
So instead of Gretzky versus Les Canadiens, we get Ed Muskie versus Steve Martin, Dan Akroyd and the cast of Saturday Night Live. 
NBA Playoffs-Does anyone really think they can beat Boston in a seven-game series? Philadelphia and Milwaukee have the only legitimate shots -so why not let them play for the right(?) to face the Celtics. It's just a waste of time to have to suffer through a New Jersey-Washington or a Denver-Phoenix series. Let's just give it to Boston by default and let 
· the players get to work making commercials. NFL Off-Season-Well, somebody has to be on vacation. But what a vacation this is. Let's see, Ed Garvey says the players want to strike. Lynn Swann says Ed Garvey doesn't know what the players want. A New York Times poll says the players don't even know what the players want. It's all simple to decipher. Pay attention, and we'll straighten it out here. Ed Garvey wants 
t Pork Egg Foo Young t 
t  _  3.95  f  
t Be~f Chop Suey ~ • 3 95  tt  
t All above include soup  t  
t Fried Rice, and Egg Roll  t  

~~<!h2!~~_!~_t 
HOURS: ~ ~~n&-~~,u~~---~.;: :;~:·:·.·_11~:~~~::: , t 
.. t 
r. t ' 
' 
;]~. t 
south send 
l ,.._ ' 
Roseland ' nexttoRandall'slnn lmf 
t 
2_12::·13_7a-t 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
more money -for himself. The players want more money -from the owners. The owners want more money -than ever. 
See? 
Baseball -Finally, some sanity. The Braves are undefeated and the Orioles have lost eight in a row-at least as of last night. Pittsburgh wants to beat Denver -maybe before the season is over The Cubs and The White Sox have new uniforms, new scoreboards, new players, and new hopes. Games were snowed out at the beginning of the season rathers than during The World Series. 
There are rumblings that the Yankees might change managers. Fernando is pitching without a contract, Reggie is back in California, and The Twins lose just as well indoors as they did outside. 
Get your All-Star ballots and start punching. Cabell, Hrbeck, Hoffman, might be there, and mirabtle dictu. Yaz might, too. 
But there is more, if you look for it. Beyond the "Big Four" there is other news. Notre Dame will play night football. The Chicago Sting had to go to overtime to beat Indiana's soccer team. Bjorn Borg won't be allowed to play at Wimbledon. Pete Couture topped Earl Anthony and Don Carter to win the King Louie Open. 
It's enough to make any self-respecting sports fan take up reading the stock reports. 
When murder and rape Invade your home, and 
the cops can't stop lt... 
This man will. His way. 
DEATH 1!!1 WrsHll 
Shows 1:30-3:20 5:10-7:30-9:49 
Chariots of Fire 1:45-4:15-6:45-9:15 
The 
Who 
~==~~------------~--~----~ 
',,,-:7~';~, 
,~~;~~a,, '1:~~0;_'
', ~' 
'~<,,~ 

FOR IN_FORNIATION CALL 277-3550 

l_ 

-~-~---­

The~=Obser:ver-=====================~ ~~------:.::=-­
Weekend 
Molarity 









JebCashin 
45 Mine 17 College approach official 46 Harem 20 Hill 
rooms dweller 47 A Logan 23 Weedy 48 Tickle grass 49 Sets off 26 Zoo attrac· 51 River of tion 
Italy 27 South 53 Indicate Carolina 54 Neptune's river 
adjunct .28 Rose petal 55 Ruhr city oil 56 Exigency 30 Followers 
31 For the-DOWN (on the 1 Childish whole) outburst 34 Like a 2 Shed croc· cobra odlle tears 35 Fugitive 3 Easter 37 Gathered 
flower 38 Concord 4 Antiquity 39 Obvious 5 Amphi· 40 Walk 
theater wearily 6 Size of 41 Under the 
paper weather 7 Simian 44 Entertainer 8 Dividing Ole 
wall 45 Chemical 9 Pull compound 
together 47 Follower of ·10 -and wiser Mignon or 11 Beethoven Claud 
opus 48 Rose's man 12 Went ~:~long 50 Lake In as a guard Norway 14 Della and 52 Coffee· Pee Wee maker 
Friday, April23, 1982 -page 15 
~ Campus 
Fnilay,Apri/23 
12:00 
pm on--An Tostal continues on South Quad 

12:00 
pm--Discussioo·-Leonard Wood­cock. Room 101, Law School 


3:00 pm--Tennis--ND Men vs Marquette, Courtney Couns 
3:30 pm--lecture--"The Mask of God," James F. Ross, Library Lounge. 
4:30 J?m--lecture--' Approaches to the Preparation and Study of Metal Cluster Systems; Reactivities of Ruthenium Cluster Anions in the Catalysis of the Water-Gas Shift Reaction." Sheldon G. Shore, 123 Nieuwland. 
7:00 pm--film--Three Stooges Film Fes­tival, Knights of Columbus Hall, $1.00, members free. 
7:00, 9:00, & 11:00 pm--film--"Anhur," Carroll Hall, SMC. Sponsored by SAPB. $1.00 
7:00 &: 10:00 pm--film--"The Godfather-­Pan II'' Engineering Auditorium. Spon­sored·by the Film Club, $1:00 
7:30 
pm--film--"The Day Mter Trinity: Jay Robeert Oppenheimer and the Atomtc Bomb" Library Auditorium. Sponsored by the Center for Exr.erimental learning. 

7:30 
pm--film--'La Grande Bourgeoise" Annenberg Auditorium. Sponsored by COTH $1.00 


7:30' pm--Festival of Brass. Washington Hall. Sponsored by the ND Music Dept. free 
1 
7: 30·pm--guest speaker--Victor Rubio--El Salvador, the strife continues. Hayes-Healy Auditorium. Sponsored by DSA ND/SMC 
8:00 pm--lecture--"The revolution in Philosophy of Science.'' Rev. Ernan McMulhn CCE Basement Dining Area (Dinner 7:pm-$9.50 per person) 
8:00pm--play--"The Card Index" O'Laughlin Auditorium ND/SMC Theatre, Students, faculty, staff $2.50. others $3.00 
Saturday April24 
All day Iong--An Tostal continues on North Quad. 
8:00 am • 5:00 pm--Graduate Record Examination. Room 212 CCMB 
11:00 am--seminar--"Le~itimate reasons for Existence: The begmning of the Charismatic Movement in the American Catholic Church, 1967-1971" Rev. James T. Conelly, CSC. 
2:00 pm, 8:00 pm--Festival of Brass Washington Hall. Sponsored by ND music Dept. Free. . 
1:00 pm--baseball--ND vs Dayton. Jake Kline field 
7:00 
{>m--film--"Off to Success" Library Auditonum 

7:00 
pm, 9:00 pm, 11:00 pm--film-­"Arthur" Carroll Hall. SMC Sponsored by SABP $1.00 


7:00pm, 10:00 pm--ftlm--"The Godfather --Part II'' Engineering Auditorium. Spon­sored by the fUm club. !1.00 
8:00 pm--play--"The Card Index" O'Laughlin Auditorium. ND/SMC Theatre, Students, Faculty, Staff--$2. 50. All others $3.00 
Sunday, April 25 
An Tostal concludes today. 
·-~-llilll!@.~-~,-~.-·------------· 

Springtime, Liue Irish Music, and Sr. Bar 
Come Together tonight. You Asked For It­Tonight's Special ... Watermelons! 
Sat. Night we 'II be haoing a a High Class, Act Respectable Party Of Course our Special will be 
Glenliven Scotch!! 
open 10-2 

.. 
.. 
The Daily Crossword 
1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
ACROSS 1 Scopeor vision 5 Adjust 10 Nautical 
distance 13 Mend 15 Matthew and 
Benedict 16 Arose 18 Zany 19 Like rattan 21 Quaker 
pronoun 22 Horrendous 23 Brazilian 
woman 24 "-girl!" 25 French coin 
of yore 26 Break up 
27 Shiny material 
29. Protective barrier 31 Morning prayer 32 -of 
Cleves 33 Aware of 34 Gathered 
cattle 36 -to (defy) 40 Conducted 
by mail 41 Caesar's 
road 42 Spanish 
queen 43 Places 44 Leather 
flask 
Thursday's Solution 

.. 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------~~ 
~-----~ 
Friday, April23, 1982 -page 16
S~orts 

By KElLY SUlliVAN Sports Writer 
Reaching the ''Sweet Sixteen" in Bookstore Basket ball is quite an accomplishment but it carries significance for the Notre Dame football team as well. 
Saturday, Notre Dame reaches the 16th of its 20 scheduled workouts, and it'll be as important a practice as any this spring. The Irish will conduct their second -and final -scrimmage before next week's Blue-Gold contest, and player performance tomorrown will weigh a little heavier on the coaches' minds when it comes time to separate the first string from the second. · 
"We still will try to give everyone a look with the first team,'' explained offensive coordinator Tom Uchtenberg. ''And we want them all to feel like they still have a chance to be first. But yes, after this scrimmage, we'd like to be able to sit down and say who's number one and who's number two." 
And there's no position the coaches would like to settle on more than the quarterback spot. Sophomore Ken Karch~r, ] unior Blair Kiel and semor walk-on Jim O'Hara remain the toP. three contenders, and all will direct the first unit tomorrown. Karcher and O'Hara are pushing Kiel, but the incumbant shows no signs of relinquishing his job. 
And then there were eight 
Tot aow an expression from Kenny Loggins and NbC Sports, "This Is It/" After nearly three weeks and 445 games, the end is in sight for Bookstore Basketball XI. But, thank God, it isn't over yet.ln fact, the best is yet to come. Only eight teams remain in this tournament. Eight teams that have survived some of the most 

~ruelling conditions and the fiercest competition advance to Sunday's championships. If, of m memory. Afte tonight, only four will remain. course, they survive Crable and companyTomorrow's semifinals will reduce the count to tonight. two. And by Sunday evening a new champion EVEN LESS ] ACKSONLESS FIVE -One of 
will be crowned. only two Elite Eight teams that didn't receive a 
Whoever the new champions will be, they will first-round bye ("T.P.S. Again" played in the have earned the title. Wednesday's ~ames first round Hall of Fame Game), the Five didn't were a testimonial to the excellent talent m this struggle at all until Wednesday, when "Brick year's tournament. The average victory margin Throwers'' were able to slow down the game.of those games was only four points. And But Tony Anderson's 12-of-19 shootingtoday' s quarterfinal match ups are almost dead propelled the Five to 22-20 victory. Anderson 
even. has had an amazing tournament, shooting
So, in case you haven't been paying close 42-of-59 over the six games {thats 71 percent).attention the past few weeks, here's a rundown Gordon Findlay, a 6-6 sophomoreof the Elite Eight and how they got here, in transfer, has been very impressive. Senior Bill 
alphabetical order (I can't be playing favorites): Hathaway, freshman Doug Bontrager and ASSASSINS -The front line of Bob Crable, sophomore John Stein round out the squad. An Mike Boushka and Dean Masztak dominated the interesting story surrounds their quarterfinal
middle, enabling the club to breeze throu~h the game against ''Milwaukee.'' Both HathawayAustin Carr Sectional. And for the first time in and Anderson have former teammates on the three years, the "Assassins" finally cracked the "Milwaukee" team. Tim Tripp of "Milwaukee" Elite Eight on Wednesday by defeating "A has been a teammate of Anderson's the past
Touch of Class," 221-18. ''I'm glad we got the three years, while Hathaway played on ] eff monkey off of our back," said a relieved Crable Lueken's team for two years. This team can playafte the contest. But Boushka, who suffered an with the best, as they proved by soundlyankle injury early in Wednesday's game, defeating "Red Rummers" for the champion­
probably will not play this weekend. Boushka ship of the Cathy Ray Sextional. scored seven points despite the injury, and FULL HOUSE -With three varsity football replacing him will be a difficult task (considering players and mammoth John Schaefer playing, most of the good players on campus have this team intimidated everyone on the way to the 
already played for other teams.). However, this Ara Parseghian Sectional Championship. Greg team will still be tough to beat. Scott Glaeser Williamson and Dave Duerson definitely will and Curt Bailey (an all-Bookstore selection last play this weekend. But it remains to be seen if year) will provide adequate outside shooting. Tony Hunter has recovered from a recent Bailey shot 1 0-of-12 in the sectional semifinal. football injury which has sidelined him the entire Most observers think this club's main weakness tournament. If Hunter can't J?lay, freshman is the lack of a ball-handling point guard. Can Mark Brooks will continue as h1s replacement.they find one withn the next few hours? Schaefer is averaging six points a game this EDDIE O'ROURKE AND THE TRAYELLING year, and his strong play under the boards is STRAGGLERS -Perhaps the team with the most enough to send most teams running. Senior basketball playing experience in the tourna­lacrosse player Bill Bonde also has done a lot ment, this club allowed an average of only eight scoring. Tonight's quarterfinal game between points en route to the Colonel Stephens Sectional "Full House" and "Talk Plenty S ... Again" will 
championship. The club is loaded with big probably be the day's best. Schaefer will do ''All three have made some names: Marc Kelly, Tim Koegel, Jim Baron (the battle (literally) with Mansel Carter. Watch. progress," notes Uchtenberg, Notre Dame assistant basketball coach) and Ed MILWAUKEE -Senior Tim Tripp averages
"but ifwe had to name a starte 
Hjerpe (6-10 graduate student who practiced over seven points a game for the relativelytoday, my opinion is that it'd be with Digger Phelps' squad this season). But surprising representatives from the KellyKiel. However, we're still most of this team's scoring has come from an Tripucka Sectional. Two very impressive wins 
evaluating.'' unknown -freshman Buster Lopes. Lopes, a over "Shysters" {the Law School team that 
In last Saturday's scrimmage baseball pitcher who didn't play this season opened everyone's eyes with exciting team play) Karcher directed two scores because of various injuries, has averaged six and "T.B. Express" got them to this point.against the No. 1 defense, points a game for this club, including two Senior Paul McMenamin probably will control starting from 20 and then eight 8-for-11 performances. Baron, who captained the boards against quarterfinal opponent ''Even 
yards out. Kiel enjoyed a better the 1977 St. Bonaventure NIT Championship less ... ," but it will be difficult for them to run team, has been very impressive with his crispSee SPRING page 12 See BOOKST-ORE page 13passing and fine shooting. Look for these guys to 
Irish lacrosse team travels to Ashland 
By MIKE SUUJVAN inside track to the game which Buckeyes are responsible for played at Notre Dame if the Sports Wn'ter would be played on Cartier ND's only loss in the divison, a Irish win the division has to 
Field during final exam week. 14-10 defeat in Columbus last help spur the players. In a 
The Ashland game on week. The teams also met disappointing year for NotreThe Notre Dame lacrosse Saturday would match the earlier in the year in a Dame sports, a lacrosse team is nearing the end of its Irsih agains a team that they tournament in Baltimore. The championship would be a good second year as a varsity sport defeated 12-7 on Cartier Irish won that match 14-10. way to end the year.
with hopes of a spot in the earlier this year. The road trip Midwest Lacrosse Association 
could serve as an equalizer as Michtgan State visits next
championship game. 
the Irish must leave South Saturday. Although the
With three ~ames left to 
Bend very early Saturday Spartans have clinched last
play against divtsion foes, the 
morning and play the game in place in the division, they
Irish can clinch a spot in the 
INSIDE:
the afternoon. However, Irish could be spoilers. The players 
championship game by 
coach Rich O'Leary is not on the team are good athletes 
winnin~ all three. Also, vic­
worried about any bad effects and are capable of pulling off
tories m the first two would from the ride. an upset.
ensure a tie for first. The final ~ames will be 
Desjardin
played agatnst Ashland "This isn't the first time O'Leary thinks that the College on the road and that we've had to do it," said ~team is up to the task. ''Our 
--page 14
against Ohio State and O'Leary. "I can't see any problem this year has been Michigan State at home. problems with us getting up that we'll play poorly for a Ashland and Ohio State are early.'' quarter or two," he said. "If currently tied with the Irish for we can hold down the score in first place in the divison. The game against Ohio the quarter that we play poorly 
ND track 
Because the division winner State will be played on Wed­we should be able to win." gets a spot in the champion­nesday. According to O'Leary, 
-page 12
ship, victories over each of this should be the toughest Moreover, the fact that the 
them would give the Irish the game of the three. The championship game will be 
L_______________________________________________________________ 1~ 


