I 
• • • El Salvador-page 3 

Boston plane crash 
Passenger sees drowning fllan 
BOSTON (AI')-A passenger on both of Dedham, were missing. vcrsity dental school in Boston. said 
till' I><:-I 0 jl·tliner that slid into Bos­Divers spent \'\'cdncsday search­ht· was seated in the front section of ton IIarbor said \\ cdncsday he was ing for the bodies in the water ncar the plane when it rolled ott' the run­ignored whl·n he tried to tell ofti­the half-submerged plane. way at Logan International Airport 
their tickets j(1r this u•eekend's Keenan Ret•ue. Unfortunate!)•, dals that he saw someone disappear Federal investigators said other See DEATH, page 4 many left empty-handed as the ticket's u•ere snapped up shorl.l)' under the il'y watt·r. pilots rcportnl the runway was slick after the doors opened at 6PM. (Pboto IJ)' Rachel Blount) · 
"They kl·pt on saying everyone with icc on the night of the accident. was all right. hut I nnddn't get it out of my mind what I s:~w," Donald Ringo and otlkials with the :Yiassa­In United States Welsh ~aid a day after World Airways chusctts Port Authority, which 
offidab conlirmnl that two men operates the airport. said they dis­were missing and fearnl drowncd in covered carry-on luggagl· belonging 

Harrington talks on socialistn 
the ath·rmath of tht· acdlknt Satur­to the elder .\ktcalf after relatives day night. approached ~tate police Tut·sday. Editor's .'Vote: .Hicbael Harrington, and campus groups on -10 to SO the problem. Therefore. to rcsolvt· 
World otfkials had insisted since Family mcmht-rs. who tried t(Jr national chairman of the campuses. the prohkm, wt· think you have to the accident that there wert· 20H two dap to learn thl'ir relatives' Democratic Socialist Organizing We· arc dt·nHH.:ratic socialists he much more radical than tradi­pa~sengl·s and crew aboard and that wht·rl·ahouts, complaincd that Collllllittee and t1 professor at ideologicallY. That is to sa\', we sec tional liberals art·. At thl' same timt·, all were acnnllltl'd for. But on Tues­World would not gi\'t: them intimna­Queen's College, Neu· }-'ork, spoke the currc.:nt. crisis in Arne~ican and Wl' have nll illusion that in America, day, Edward Hingo, scnior vice tion, nor would \1assport oftkials reCt'nllJ• tl'ilb Obst'rvcr neu•s slajfer world society not as an episode in an today. anyone is suddenly going to pn·~itknt of the air ctrril'r. said \X'al­help. .fobn Kissell alJoul /be socialist's up and down cp.:lc, but as a struc­crt·atl' a mass socialist movt:ml·nt tt-r .\ktcalf. (JlJ, and his son i.l·o, -10. Welsh. 2"i, a stutknt at Tufts llni-role in tbe United Stales, its allies tural feature of a systl·m dominated which will bt· leading tht· nation. anti its future. Kissell, -author of by corporate power. \X'c fed, That's absurd. Wt·'rt· just rebuilding "1'be ()lba A111erica, .. "Tbe Vast thcrl'liJrl·. that in the crisis ohtagtb­socialism to a mini mal cn·dibk .1/ajori~l'" anti"Tbe Accidental Cen­tion, it is not l'llOugh to rt·jcct prc~enlT in the l lnitnl States, and

Profs differ on nuclear 
turJ•." tl'ill speak in tbe UIJmry Ronald Reagan and his gin·-away to we arc quilt' realistic about what we Auditorium next TbursdaJ• at 8 the rich as a way to rt·-industrialil.t' han· to dll, and what our limitations fun. on "The /')80's: A Social America. which is crud, rcanionary. arl·. What we projt-ct is not socialism Perspectil•e. " rcgrcssi\'c ,and won't work. It takes, triumphant in thl' llJHO's, hut

proliferation issue 
<): Wbat exaci/J• is tbe in my opinion. very littk intd­socialists playing a role in cn·ating a 
I Jemocmtic Socialist Ot:~anizing ligcncc to lx· against Hcagan. The much more radical lihcr;tl, labor, By CINDY COLDIRON done just to keep up with thl· other Co111111iltee (IJSOC)? 1/ou• is it dif hard qul·stion is what is the al­minority, fc:minist coalition. Th;u StuffReporter side. If O!ll' side stops doing ferenl froII/ Ibe Democratic Par~J'? ternative to Reagan? coalition will atrack corporatt· 
research. then they will not bl· the A: First of all, DSOC is the largest 
power but in all t.'kclihood, will not 
A wide varkty ofopinions for and ones to discover a way of rendering democratic socialist organization in declare itself to bt· socialist. against thc issUl' of nuckar disarm:~­tht· other sides' weapons useless. For the United States. And it is tht·largcst Socialists will be playing a much mt·nt arc present on the Notre Dame example, ifthe Russian scientists dis­in about -iO )'l'ars. which is both an morl· important role than they have 
campus. covered this technique tirst. they accomplishment anti a sign of how in a half century. 
l'r. David Sdtlavcr of the Notre would 'Pearl Harbor' us the next miserable democratic socialism has In terms of strategy, it's that Damt· Campus Ministry referred to da1" had it in the llnitcd States over the analysis, that the crisis is structural, the buildup of mll'lear arms as Norling then rdi:rred to the fact last 40 years. that tht· solutions require an att "absurd, indd'cnsihlc anti probably that in war thl· grcatcst advantage is It is an organization with a great Michael Harrington on corporate power, and that the at­un-Christian." llt· also added that S\Jrprisc. lk then addl'd, "But the numhcr oftrade unionists, induding tack will be hy a non-socialist coali­Pope .John Paul II ha~ been strongly United States is not otlkially com­pt·oplc likl· Bill Winpisinger of the Our tcding is that tratlitional tion in whit'h socialists play a role, against thl· buildup of nudcar arms mitted to striking first." .\1achinists; .Joyce \1uller, the t1rst liberalism, as practiced from that leads us to the necessity of from till' Vl'fY hl·ginning. Dennis Goukt. Professor of woman member of the Executive Roosevelt through .Jimmy Carter, working in the Democratic Party. 
:'1/otrl· Dame proli:ssor of history Education lilr .Justin·. rcferrl·d to a Committee of tht· AFL-CIO; Ed As­docs not have an altt·native. This, b(.'­The Dcmonatic Party is a mess. lkrnard :'llorling stated. statl'ml'lll in :'lligel Caldl·rs' hook ncr, prt·sidcnt of the Scrt'l'n Actors' cause traditional lihl'ralism is Evcryhody knows that. It b, as I like "llypothctically. it would have been Vudear .Vigblllllii'I!S that "a fun­Guild and one of our newest unwilling to face tht· fact that it is to say, the place where you'll t1nd better if man hall nevl'f invented damental qul'stion tilr \X'esterners is recruits; and black activists like corporate priorities in government, some of the worst people and most nuckar weapon~ bl-causc nl'ithcr whetht·r nudear weapons art· l'!llll· .Julian Bond and Ron Dcllums, the corporatl' price-tixing, government of the hcst pcoplc in the U.S. It con­human being~ nor the governments patihk with their moral codes and only·card-carrying socialists in the support to the automobile and steel tains union-hust~_:rs, racists, sexists, han· rc~traints on controlling their political systems." li.S. Congress. We also have industries when they made tcrribk opponents ofthe Third World, etc. It tlll'rn." But rl'alistil'ally hl' ti:lt that Goull't continul'd. "In my \'il'W. feminists like Gloria Stcincm and decisions, government complicity also contains the overwhelming the "huildup of \\Tapons \\a~ c~~en· this is indl'nl the isSUl'. The moral Cynthia Apstcin, and we have the in the destruction of the railroads hulk of tht· working dass, most of tial for our security." and political values which the most vital youth organization ofany and mass transit; it is the inter­tht· middle-class rdormcrs, most of 
Continuing. :"<orling said. "A grt·at political tendency in the United penetration of governmcnt and cor­dt·al of sdcntilk rcsl·arch ha~ to he See NUCLEAR, page 4 States. with about I,"iOO mt·mhcrs porate prioritks which has created See Q&A, page 4 
THURSDAY,JANUARY 2H, 19H2
V< H.. XVI. N< ). H·l an tndependent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
For recession 

Reagan blan1es Federal Reserve 
WASIIINGTON ( AP) The 
Rea~an administration laid partial 
blame for the curn·nt, deep rcccs­
~ion on thl· imkpl·ndent Federal 
Rl·scrVl' )'l'Sterday and warned that 
further "erratic" control of the 
money supply l·ould derail its 
program for economic recovery. 

But Trca~ury Se('fetary Donald l{l'gan. the president's chid' spokes­man on economic policy. said, "The • president is not going to call tiJr (the) resignation" of Paul C. Vokkcr, chairman of the central hank. 
"Tlw erratic p;lltcrn of money 
growth that occurred in I<JHO and ll)H I ... contributed to thl' onset of the current downturn," Regan told the .Joint Ecunomil' Committee of Congrcss. 
Regan added that a "stcady monl·tary policy is absolutely essen­tial if Wl' arc to stt·ady the t1nancial markl·ts and rcducc interest ratt·~-Stahilitv of policy i~-o tht: kt'l' require­
mcnt tor any pcrmam:nt rccon·ry in output and unemployment." 
Regan's comments were the shar­Pl'St slap the Reagan administration has taken at the central bank. And they could lay the groundwork tiJr future criticism should Reagan's plan fail to produce the recovery promised Tuesday night in his State of the Union message. 
Regan's remarks prompted one Democrat, Sen. William Proxmirc. D-Wis., to say, "It's easy to unload on the Fnleral Reserve. Congress has been doing that since I<) 15." when the Fed was created as an indcpcnd­cnt agency reporting to Congress, not the White House. 

Rq~an's commcnts carne one day aftcr Volckcr told another commit­tee that largc budgct dctkits arc the chid threat to the recovery the ad­ministration forecast for later this year. The Fed argues that large ddkits, coupkd with tight credit. will discour<~gl' private borrowing except at abnormally high intcrcst rates. 
The Fed's credit policy, which limits the growth of funds available for spending and lending, is designed to bring dong intlation even at the short-term cost ofhigher interest rates and recession. 
The administration says that the Fed's performance in controlling the money supply has created havoc with interest rates. A recent spurt in the supply of money has forced up interest rates, Regan contended, bc­
causc kndcrs fear a new bout ofhigh intlation. Regan said the deficits. which he 
said would be under S I 00 billion in llJH2 and drop by S I 0 billion a year thcraftcr. resulted largdy from the 

poor economic performance which he blamed partly on the Fed. Talking with rcportcrs aftlT his liJrmal appearance. Regan said 
See REGAN, page 4 

r 
I ' 
~ 
~ 
I r 
~ 
I 


NewsBrieP 
By The ( )hsen'er and The Associated Press 
Former President Ford says his skiing skills and golf game t have improved enough so he can come off the political sidelines and campaign for Republican candidates this year. Follow­ing the 1980 election, Ford announced his retirement from active politics. But now, the tormer president told 600 Republicans in Houston Tuesday night that "the stakes are far too high and the con­sequences too serious for any of us to sit on the sidelines." -AP 
Alwin Nikolais, the choreographer-composer­
designer, will receive the 1982 Capezio Dance Award, it was 
announced yesterday in New York. The 69-year-old Nikolais, who 
has headed his own dance company, The Alwin Nikolais Dance 
Theater, since 195.3, will be given the S5,000 prize April 2.6 at the 
Juilliard School. The Capezio Award has been annually given since 
1952 to honor lifetime achievements in dance. Past recipients have 
included Sol Hurok, Martha Graham, Arthur Mitchell, Jerome Rob­
bins, Robert Joffrey, Agnes de Mille and Alvin Ailey. -AP 

Peter Paul Broccoletti, an attorney with ex­
perience in both the public and private sectors, has been appointed 
deputy enforcement counsel of the Environmental Protection 
Agency. He will have daily operating responsibility for the direction 
and management of EPA efforts to resolve compliance problems. 
Broccoletti was supervising attorney for the Notre Dame Legal Aid 
and Defender Association from 1976 to 1978, and then became the 
first managing attorney for Legal Sevices of the Florida Keys in Key 
Largo. He served as a trial attorney with the Civil Aeronautics Board 
from 1970 to 1972 and was a senior trial attorney with the Federal 
Trade Commission's Bureau of Consumer Protection from 1973 to 
1975. Subsequently, he was international afffairs officer for the 
Federal Maritime Commission. -The Observer 

A firefighter in Holyoke, Mass., has died of injuries suf­fered Jan. 19 as he fought flames that destroyed a downtown hotel and killed a retired firefighter who lived there, officials said yester­day. Raymond Deshaies, 43, died at II :30 p.m. Tuesday, according to Holyoke Hospital nursing supervisorJoan Comtois. He had been un­conscious and in critical condition, his breathing supported by a respirator, since he was brought to the hospital after the fire, officials said. He was injured while operating a water pumper near Daly's Hotel when a wall collapsed, burying him with bricks. The fire also claimed the life of hotel resident Raymond Finn, a retired Army Air Force sergeant in his 60s and a former firefighter at Westover Air Base in Chicopee. -AP 
The Bulletin, once the nation's largest afternoon daily, announced yesterday that it will publish its last edition Friday be­cause of growing financial losses. "l feel lousy about it," publisher 
N.S. "Buddy" Hayden told hushed employees in the Philadelphia newsroom. "The hardest thing to do is close a great newspaper like this." The 134-year-old newpaper becomes the fourth maj tor daily to 
close in six months, joining the afternoon Washington Star, the af­ternoon Tonight edition ofthe New York Dai~y News and the morn­ing Philadelphia journal. The Bulletin closing will affect I, 743 full-time employees-including about 250 reporters and editors­as well as several hundred part-time workers and 6,500 carriers. It leaves the nation's fourth largest city with one newspaper owner, the Knight-Ridder group, which publishes the morninglnquirer and the afternoon tabloid Dai~y News. -AP 
A local newspaper in .Manila joined the search for missing sportsman Tommy Manotoc yesterday by putting up a S250 reward for information on the whereabouts of a car he was driving the day he disappeared. The .32-year-old amateur golfer has been missing since Dec. 29 after dining with President Ferdinand E. Marcos' daughter,. lmee, whom Manotoc secretly married three we(·ks earlier in the United States. The tabloid We Forum, which often has criticized Marcos' policies, also urged citizens to con­tribute to the reward to make it "juicier." Manotoc's family has accused Marcos of involvement in the disappearance because he objected to the marriage. Marcos has denied it and accused political opponents ofarranging the disappeance t(> embarrass him. -AP 
Sony Corp. said yesterday it is marketing another mini­ature entertainment product, this time a wallet-sized black-and­white television with a two-inch screen. Named "FLAT TV," the unit measures 1.4 inches thick, .3.4 inches wide, eight inches long, weighs 
18.6 ounces and costs 5240, a Sony spokesman said. It will go on sale next month and will be introduced in the U.S. market within the year, he said. The television comes with a headphones similar to those Sony markets with its highly successful miniature stereos, the spokesman said. -AP 
A gray wolffrom Michigan is being given a new start from 
a Battle Ground. Ind., man who offered him a home and went to 
court to prove the animal is a member of an endanged species. The 
wolf, named Mickey, is three years old and weighs I00 pounds. He is 
at an animal shelter in Michigan awaiting final plans to ship him to 
Erich Klinghammer's wolf research farm near Battle Ground. Last 
September Mickey maukd a two-year-old Wayne, Mich., boy who 
toddled over to play with the animal. The child died from the bites. 
Mickey was scheduled to be killed after its owner was convicted of 
possessing an animal in the federal endangered species list. But Klin­
ghammer arranged for the wolf to be brought to his Wolf Park north 
of Lafayette. -AP 

Becoming partly sun,ny today. Mild with highs in the mid to upper .30s. Increasing clouds again late tonight. Low in the mid to upper teens. Cloudy with light snow possibly developing tomorrow. High in the upper 20s to low 30s. -AP 
Thursday,January 28, 1982-page 2 
Campaign study strategy 
You know you are getting old when people start ask­ing tor advice. Take last Tuesday night, tor example. One of the potential candidates for student body presi­dent in the upcoming campus-wide elections called me to get some words of wisdom about campaign strategy and bsues. 
Two things struck me about the call: first, can y'ou believe the SBP election is only ten days away? Monday, Feb. 8, is the day ofdecisi<in, and understandably, there is some apprehension in the ranks of potential can­didates; and second. how can someone expect me to offer political advice? The big question on the mind of this potential candidate (who will remain anonymous) concerned the selection ofplanks for his campaign plat­form. Now, you could tell that this fellow has not been around as long as some ofus. 
Why? Well, you can tell because he quickly rattled off a long list of very idealistic projects that he hoped to undertake if elected SBP. Among them: provision for serving alcohol at the LaFortune Student Center, recon­sideration of parietals, a new student center and changes in the meal programs at the dining halls. A plea for rejuvenation of the perennial keg issue also made the list of burning issues for the upcoming campaign. 
After running through this 
list, there was a long silence 
on my part as I con­
templated how to bring this 
young idealist down gently. 
Most seniors can remember 
that infamous front page of 
The Observer from Novem­
ber 21, 1978 that carried the 
banner headline: "Van 
Wolvlear says no." At that 
time, Vice-President for Stu­
dent Affairs Fr. John Van 
Wolvlear had just rejected a 
painstakingly-formulated 
resolution of the Campus 
Life Council proposing a 
relaxing of University parie­

tals. That is the vision that kept flashing in my mind. If this young candidate would only have looked through old issues of The Observer, the sad procession of defeated proposals concerning student life would undoubtedly have put a damper on his hopeful campaign promises. 
To many of us, therefore, Fr. Van's rejection of the CLC's most recent keg proposal came only as a mild case of deja vu. But apparently not to the young can­didate. 
It's easy to sit back and be pessimistic -and apat­hetic. Surviving four years of college life tends to stifle many of the idealistic and creative instincts we had when we first reached South Bend. But the central ques­tion is this: if most of the potential issues of this year's campaign have been rejected resoundingly in just the past four years, what is left to be done? Beat a dead horse to make political hay to feed the fire ofpolitical rhetoric in the election campaign? Or to give the SBP winner something to go through the motions for during his 
senior year? No -unless the student voters are to be 
fooled, particularly those not old enough to remember 
the rejection of the ideas once again being dragged out 
Oesign /;'ditor ... .... .\1onica /Jesign Assistants ... ......vtik~ l)·pesefler... .. ......... AI .\'ell'S J~'ditor's . .... \1ary Agnt·s c.'\: .\1arg:art't Copy Editor. .......................... . ...... Tim .\jwrts CojJ)' l:'ditor .......... ..... Chri~ 7)•/Ji.<t... . .. .........................kann~ V/J /Jay J:'dilor.. ... Randy S.lfC !Jtl)' /itlilor... .......Juk Ad f)esi)!,JJ.... ... John & Bok & Gang Pbutograpber..... . ....... ........... Rae had (iuesl Appearances ..... PnH..l.\laxi. the fridgl'  
The Observer (USPS 598 9201 1s published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer 1s publ1shed by the students of Notre Dame and Satnt Mary s Col 1ege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year t$15 per semester) by wn!lng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 The Observer 1s a ·nember of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556  






TEACH IN FLORIDA 
No Experience Necessary 
lmmediale opec liiiQS lot gaduatea wtth a Baclle4ors Degee in Phyt.ics, Chemisrt. 0t Engil..nng to teach eotnes In science ard tec:hno6ogy of Nudear Proputsjon. 
sMwy s19,500 ~ lnaaaaing to $28,000. Must be 
U.S. Cdizen Lnier 29 years of age. 30 days paid vacation 
eec:h year. Free medical and denial pKkag8. Depen­beneftts aAao proyided. 
Department of the Navy 575 N. Perii'laytvanla Street Otftce 848 OPO lncUanapoUa, IN 46204 317-269-6183 or 1-800-382-9404 

of the politician's closet. 
We need a fresh and very realistic perspective on the role of SBP. Fresh, because no matter how bleak the outlook, students need a forceful and optimistic person to represent them; realistic because valuable time should not be wasted rehashing the same old worn-out issues. In this regard, the present SBP can be given good 
marks. 

Don Murday, while he will not be remembered as the FDR of campus politics, has. moved effectively on the realisticly limited objectives set forward at the begin­ning of his term. Although the LaFortune Club, for ex­ample, has been a disaster, Murday and Bill Lawler of Student Union have"not wasted their investment in time and energy: they have proven through failure that 
something more than the 
LaFortune Ballroom is re­
quired to improve social life 
at Notre Dame. It is ironic, 
but this failure may prove to 
be the biggest impetus in 
years for the administration 
to finally face the fact that 
serious and substantial steps 
have to be taken to provide a 
more viable social outlet for 
students. 
If there is any advice, 
therefore, that old hands 
have to pass on to new SBP 
candidates, it should be this: 
do not set your goals too 
high, but rather make them 
acheivable under the 
present setup of the Univer­
sity administration. The ad­ministration will not change, but it will bend. By operating within the present framework, and setting goals realistic enough for administrators to accept with­out losing face, some meaningful, albeit probably un­spectacular, progress can be made. 
Observer notes________, 
The Observer is always looking for new repor­ters. Ifyou like to write and can devote a few hours each week to reporting, visit our office on LaFortune's third floor. Talk to one of our news editors. They'll be glad to get you started. 
The Observer also needs design assistants. Ifyou are interested in learning the newspaper business and can work one night each week, call Mike at 239-7471. 


-----1 

------------------··----------------------­
The Observer Thursday,January 28, 1982-page 3 

Bartell seeks Salvador solution 
Fr. Ernest Hartell, Executive 
Direnor of the University of Notre 
Dame's Kdlogg Institute on lnt<-·rna­
tional Studies, rn'l'ntly spent nine 
days in El Salvador as a member ofa 
citizens' l'Ommittt-c sean:hing ti>r a 
demonatic ~olution to that 
country's bloodshed. 
Tht• Citizens' Commmittee on the El Salvador Crisis. <.'omposcd of seven peopk n.:pre~enting American civic, academic, religious and otht·r non-governmental institu­tions, issued a statement on Ike. IS at tht: National Press Club in Wash-
CILA workshop scheduled 
By KATIE McDONNELL 
StaffReporter 
The Christian response to nuclear 
arms will be discussed by Arch­
bishop Raymond G. Hunthausen of 
Seattle at this Friday's opt·ning ofthc 
19H2 CILA Workshop. 
This public lecture, at 7:~0 p.m. in the Memorial Library Auditorium. is this yt·ar's attempt by tht· Notre Dame Community ti>r the lntl'fna­tional l.ay Apostol ate ( CH.A) to con­front complex questions in hopes of fostering a change among in· dividuals and their society. Bishop Hunthauscn's contribution is en­titled "Why Challenge Nuclear Arms: Risking a Christian Response." 
Bishop 1-lunrhauscn, a supponer of unilateral disarmament, drt·w in­ternational attention last year by suggt·sting that Christians in the llnitt·d States should consider withholding half of thl'ir federal incomt· tax as a nonvioknt protest against "nudear munkr and suicide." 
An·ording to CILA reprt·M·ntativc 
Mary Ann Roemer, tht· Dull'h­
orkntcd llunthausen was chosen 
pn·dominantly for this reason. "The 
topic of nuclear arms is so olh-n in 
the news, it's so mut·h in our minds," 
~ht· ~aid, ··and Hi!thop Hunthausen is 
advocating action. llis comments 
are l(Uitc valuable in times SlKh as 
thl'SC:." 
This lecture is the highlight of a 
two-day workshop which continues 
Saturday morning when Bishop 
Ilunthauscn will be availahlt· to 
address student t·ont-erns more per­
sonally. This question-answn ses­
sion will take place at 9 a.m. in the 
l.ihrary Lounge. 
CII.A education oftkcrs Mary Soul<· and Mary Ann Fenwkk, who organized the workshop, hope the quality will surpass that of othn such workshops that have taken place sinee the program began in 1977. 
CIJ.A is a community service or­ganization serving Notre Darm· and St. Mary's sirKe 1960. Besides this annual workshop. it also provides a }'t'ar-round scart·h for sm:ial juMice in the limns ofsud1 programs as the Urban Plungt·, summer projects, service prujects. n·treats and studies ahroad. 
Both t·vents t\1r thb wt·t·kend arc free and open to the public. 

Buy Observer classifieds 
ington. rn·omnH:nding that "the 
llnitnl ~rates government propost· a 
cessation of all military aid from all 
sources under international supervi­
sion and nmtrol." 

Other committee mmembers 
were Clark Kerr, Chairmman of the 
Land Council and President 
Emeritus ofthe University ofCalifor­
nia; Angkr Hiddk Dukt:, Chairmman 
of the National Committee on 
American Foreign Policy and former 
American ambassador to El Salvador; 
Orville Freeman. President of Busi­ness International, former governor of Minnesota and t(>rmer 1 Se<.·retary of Agriculture; Fr. Ira Gallaway. pas­tor of the United Methodist Chun:h in P<.·oria, Illinois; Rabbi Arthur Schneier, ofthe Park East Synagogue in New York, Chairman of the Ap· 
peal of Conscience Foundation; and .\1ary N. Temple, Excutive I)irector of the Land Council. 
The committee's statement expressed disappointment that the Frente Demonatka Revolucionaria { FDR ), the coalition of most of El Sal­vador's opposition groups. has so far 
refused to participate in the elec­
tions scheduled for Man.:h of next 
year. FDR members have said that the prerequisite surrender of their weaponry would insure governmen­tal reprisals. 
"We encourage all parties," tht· committee statement reads, "to ex­plore ways to bring into the elec­toral process all those who want a politkal rather than a military solu­tion." In order to facilitate this inclu­sion, tht· t·ommittec said. "The armed forces must address im­
mediately and directly the issue of 
vioknce and abuses of authority 
within their own ranks and take 
responsibility for setting an exampit­
of consideration for the rights of its 
citizens. The government must <:urb 
the excesses oftheir own forces and 
take steps to reconstitute the badly 
faltering judicial system." 

If the cessation of all outside military aid proves impossible and if Cuban, Soviet and other intert•sts cannot be persuaded to discontinue the shipment of arms to the guerril­las. the committee said, U.S. military aid must continue. But "the United States. should insist that weapons supplied for defense against the guerrilla aggression just cannot be used in violation of human rights 
against the citizens of El Salvador." 
------~ -­
ASSOCIATE WITH US



SENIORS 
The HCAs is a 1-2 year postgraduate experience stressing: 8 Service to others eSimple living ecommunai inestyle .Christian exploration 
Placements available in the United States: Santiago, Chile; and Nairobi, Kenya. 

VALENTINE'S DAY 
directly east of campus 


ANYTHING ROWS 
272-8820 
1I 4 mi. north of Douglas 

The Observer Thursday, January 28, 1982-page 4 
... Death 
continuedfrom page 1 
upon landing and went into the frigid water. 
The cockpit section of the plane sheared off, flooding his cabin with sea water. Welsh said he and several other passengers helped rescue the flight crew from the water. 
He said he recalled seeing the Metcalfs sitting in front row seats, which disappeared in the accident. 
"After we took those four people out of the water, one guy said, 'Look over there!' I saw somebody floundering about 2S feet off to the left of the plane. We tore off some cushions and threw them to him, but soon after the person disappeared under the water." 
Welsh said he told a firelighter and a police offker what he wit· nessed but said. "they were all run­ning around preuy frantic" rescuing passengers. 

I for further information Write: Father Andre Leveille, CSC Box 541 Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 _ 
About 40 people were taken to hospitals, but on Wednesday only 

SHAPE 
THE FUTURE





a: ENERGY
..... 
It is a tall order. Yet. tt is a challenge that must be met Our future as an mdustrial society depends on our ability to f1nd more eff1cient ways to· use our limited fuel resources. At Fluor. we are working hard to find the answers. 
For over 60 years. we have helped the energy industries by designing and building modern refming. petrochemical. chem1cal and natural gas facilities. During that time. Fluor eng1neers have been m the forefront of energy related technology. 
At present. we are applying new methodology in the extract1on of 011 from tar sands and shale. coal gasification and the ref1nmg of h1gh sulphur feedstocks. This is a challengmg. exc1ting 11m~ lor engineers who are interested m solvmg complex problems 
Graduates with a degree tn Chemical or Mechanical Engineering are invited to help us shape the future of energy technology. For complete career information. talk to our campus recruiter or write to: 
Houston DIViSIOn College Relat1ons 4620 N. Braeswood Houston. Texas 77096 
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS 
February 4, 1982 

'!fFLliOR 
~ 
We are proud to be an Equal Opportuntly Employer MIF/HIV . 
three remained hospitalized, none 
with serious injuries. 

Welsh said he called Massport on Sunday to report what he had seen after he heard reports that all the passengers were safe. 
"I talked to two or three people and they passed me up to their su­
continuedfrom page 1 

the minorities, most ofthe feminists, most of the environmentalists, most of the peace movement. We take it not as an ideal instrument, not even as an adequate instrument, but as a point of departure because it is where this coalition is potential. 
On Solidarity Day last September, there you saw, gathered together in Washington, D.C., precisely the pervisor," he said. "I don't remem­ber any names. The last person I walked to was a woman. She said that World has confirmed that there were no casualties. That's when I died. I said 'That can't be true.' 
"She said, 'We'll get back to you.' They never did." 
.. Q&A 
people who need to be called the loudest. The limitation of Solidarity Day is that it was mostly negative, a well-deserved critique of Reagan's policies, but it didn't offer a clear progammatic alternative. 
Q: Critics on the left say that DSOC is no better than reformist. What isyoura11swer to thatcharge? 
A: From the very first. in DSOC we have said that we want to be on the left wing of the possible. It is very easy to make magnificent demands that the world become socialist tomorrow morning at 9 a.m., that wealth be redistributed, that racism and sexism be eradicated, and the the Third World be modernized. The making of those demands bot· hers nobody in power because they're irrelevant in political terms. The problem is to take those demands, and I'm for every one of 
them, and see how much of them can be approximated in the next year, or next two years, or in the next ten years. in our society. I'm a 
born  Marx-quoter,  and  I  love  
quoting  that  section  of  the  
"Communist  Manifesto"  where  

Marx tells how the superradicals of the 1840's, in Germany, who were against all liberal reforms, had coun­terposed themselves to the democratic movement which had a chance of making some changes. 
Marx pointed out that they provided the Prussian royal house with a scarecrow with which it could try to frighten people off of genuine reform. I don't want to be in the that category ofirrelevant radicalism. 
.. .Nuclear 
continuedfrom page 1 
United States stand for arc being un­dermined by the very process of building a constantly shifting nuclear deterrence. The dangers of nuclear catastrophe are so great and so immediate that a dramatic overture is needed by the U.S. to break the logjam and launch a quantatively new process eventually leading to the elimination of nuclear weapons. 
"This is the kind ofstep Sadat rook in going to the Israeli Parliament, breaking down the barrier of suspicion between Arabs and Jews, and launching a new momentum for peaceful co-existance between enemies." 
.. . Reagan 
continuedfrom page 1 
Reagan does not intend to escalate administration criticism of the Fed to the point of seeking Vokkcr·~ resignation. 
Volcker is serving a tlxed term as chairman that ~·xpires in Augu~t 
I')H~.  He  dm:s  nor  serve  at  the  
pleasure  of  the  president.  and  
presumably  could  ignore  anv  

presidential call for hb resignation. 
.-----------------------------------------------~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------~--------------------~ 
The Observer Thursday, january 28, 1982 --page 5 
Before Senate panel 
F orlller teen addicts testify 
WASIIIN<iTON (AI') 1"'-ycar-old told of taking her tlrst pay h>r his addictions, going through Tt·t·nagcrs who came hack from drink at I I when. as she was babysit­courts that "were: a joke:" and tinally lives of <kpcm.kncy on drink and ting on :'1/cw Year's Eve, "my \'l'ry coming before: a "t'lean lady judge:." drugs told a St·natc pand ycstnday considerate mother went out and She made: him choose: between that "it's vt·ry hard to he straight bought my girlfriend and I a coupk training school, a ti>rc:stry camp or tht·sc days." of honks ofchampagne." Second Genesis, a treatment 
And a Virginia school official said Three weeks later. she began program for drug abusers in the: the usc of ilkgal drugs is no longer a using marijuana, she said, then faked Washington, D.C., arc:a. symbol of protest or countcr­headaches to get pain-killing drugs Pc:nny, who started smokng cuhurt· among the young, hut nor­from her mother and the neighbors, marijuana at 1.2, told the: senators, mal behavior "engaged in by a and spent her babysitting hours get­"It's very hard to he straight thc:se signitkant majority ofstudents." ting high on the customers' liquor da)·s. It's very hard to tind straight 
The youngsters, identified only by and medicines. people nowadays. The: pc:er pressure: their 11rst names, told of a weekday By junior high school, she rdated, is tremendous." life where "school is a party," "alcohol and drugs were the center She: rc:lated, "I've: gone: to concerts lavatories crowded with drug­of my life." She said teachers gave with two of my teachers in junior lkalcrs, and even some teachers her no trouble when she skpt high school and got high with who get stoned. through most of her classes. thc:m." 
Teenage drug users "come from And, she asserted, "I'm not <.lit~ Pc:nny facc:d possibll' prison sen­
• 
happy and stabk homes, they come fc:rent .... A lot ofpeople do it." tences connected with drug habits 
IMMEDIATE OPENINGS FOR COLLEGE
from ghettos, they come from all Terry said eventually she got into whc:n she: landed in a florida treat­


"2 
STUDENTS WORKING TOWARD A 
walks of life," said Terry. a sdf-hdp program. ment center called Village South. 
BS/BA IN ENGINEERING, MATH,
In testimony to the Senate Labor David, 18, told of breaking into Dr. \1d J. Riddle:, coordinator of w PHYSICS, OR CHEMISTRY. 
subcommittee on invt·stigations, the neighbors' homes to steal jcwdry to substance: abuse: prevention for l:'air­INCLUDES A FULL YEAR OF GRADUATE fax County, Va., public schools, said LEVEL NUCLEAR TRAINING AT OUR that in 1970, .23 percent ofthl· 1.2-17 EXPENSE WITH A $3,000 BONUS UPON 
COMPLETION.
age: group had used an illicit drug. By 

1980, 6S pc:rt·ent had usc:d an illicit drug, he: said. EARN A STARTING SALARY OF "What should be: done:?" Sc:n. $24,100 THAT INCREASES TO OVER Paula Hawkins, R-Fia., chairman of $44,800 AFTER FOUR YEARS., 
Local leaders react • 

to Reagan's plan 
the: subcommittee, asked the: young PLUS FREE MEDICAL AND DENTAL witnesses. CARE. UNLIMITED SICK LEAVE, THIRTY WASIIIN<iTON (AP)-State and "I think that most ofthe: governors "Station somc:onl· in authority in DAYS ANNUAL PAID VACATION, AND EXECUTIVE CLUB PRIVILEGES.
local lt:aders across the country will takl' the: position that thc:rc: is school bathrooms," said Tc:rry. wert· saying yesterday there is enough fcdc:ralism potentially in the "It hc:lps if parents show a lot of PERSONNEL WILL BE ON CAMPUS promise enough in President pn:sidc:nt's broad recommendation concern .and a lot of love," said Pen­
February 10-11, 1982 
Reagan's "New Federalism" plan to ... but it is our duty to put forth what ny. give them hope -but probll'ms we consider to be: the reasonabll' DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY 575 N. PENNSYLVANIA STREET
enough to give them pause. circumstances and conditions undc:r .fames Hendricks of Second 
OFFICE 646 OPO

"The real rt·d tlag is: what is the ... this program could work," said• Genesis said it costs S.2 I a day to INDIANAPOLIS, IN 46204 nt·t impact on an already overbur­Snelling, the governors' national trc:at an allolc:scclif. "It should be 317·269 6183 OR 1-800-382-9404 denl·d state budget?" said Charles chairman. noted that this S2 I per day price tag Robb, who is in his t1rst month as "The lmdgc:t director, .\1r. (David) is in sharp contrast to the: ap­governor of Virginia. Stockman, has said there arc: a proximate:!)' S40 per day ti>r dc:tc:n­
!\lew York :-.1ayor Edward I. Koch thousand littll' questions to be: tion. or the 5300-5400 pc:r day cost calkd thl' plan to shift more than ·lO answc:rc:d about this," Snelling sai~. of hospitalization," ht· addl·d. fnkral programs to the states, with a "Thc:rc: arc: a dozen enormous ques­temporary fund to tlnance them, ·:a tions to be answered." con job." One of Snelling's leading con­
Robb and Koch an: both cerns was share:<.! by Hdc:n Boosalis lkmm:rats, hut Rt·publi<:an Ril·hard ofLint coin, Nc:h., chairman oftht· U.S. Sndling of Vermont spoke ti>r the Conference: of Mayors, who said she 



Stillcalit .
nation's governors when he said was troubkd by what the president thl'rt· arc: conditions that will have to did not say in his speech. he rnc:t bt:forc: the program is 
makeup~ur mtnd
l'lllbran·d-even though much ofit "That is the serious problems cur­
originatl'd in thl· National Gover­rently faced by our cities, problems 
nors' Association. like: massive unemployment and the 
"Whl·re do we go from here?" inability to maintain basic servil:c:s Sndling asked in a Washington news for citizens who arc: most in need of 


atTacoJohnS?
conference:. thc:m," :\1ayor Boosalis said. 

join us this sunday for our cabaret brunch 
classical music provided by the elkhart string quartet 
for reservations call259-9925 


Maybethiswill help • 
• 

: Buyoneburrito.getanotheroneFREEi : 
:. (.''·. With so many things to eat at Taco John's, we know It's •: often not easy to decide. That's why we're offering this • mouth-watering deal on our regular burritos. Just take • • this coupon to any participating Taco John's. And tell • • them if you want your burritos mild, hot or superhet. • 
: TACO JOHN·s... : 
• More thanJ·ust tacos.. • 

4 Area Locations 

• LiKOinar West llortlllronood US33 EestCtmrSl liPawua Sod I ... IIills llnlll 
.II 
Limit on~ coupon per custom~r per •bit. EXPIRES 21 ~BIB~ 
Thursday, january 28, 1982-page 6




Editorials 
Two views of the tax-exemption case 
The laws aren't clean cut, par-might nonchalantly repeal. equal break, or whether poslliVISm, women are not, under Catholic law, Will• B kJ ticularly when they attempt to clarify The cliche is, of course, that by or skepticism, or relativism were in permitted to be ordained. One may I 10m UC IJ murky issues. There is no better ex-granting a tax exemption to an en-the saddle. feel an intellectual contempt for the ample of this than the mess the presi-terprise, the government is in effect So the subject is really more com-interpretation of the Bible by Bob dent has got into on the matter of tax subsidizing that enterprise. We hear plicated than Mr. Reagan, or his Jones, but shouldn't we gu t ard 
On the Right
exemption and racial discimination. this one over and over again. Is it critics, have acknowledged. Catholic against the codification of our con-
How is it ( see Everson vs. II-true? schools are still free to recruit Cath-tempt for other people's opinions? ought not to, under the Bill of Rights,
tinois,etc.) that it is unlawful to use Well, not really; because if it were olic students, and even free to reject From all of which I conclude : I) to assume. And 3) that the moral case
tax deductible money to help pay the true, then it would be true that the non-non -Catholic students, That Mr. Reagan's initial instincts t to for equality should be pressed by the 
salary of a gym teacher in a religious government is, right this minute, though in practice they don't. Thhe take from the IRS the right to people exercising their absolute right 
school, but lawful to pay the salary of "subsidizing" religious education, same is true of Jewish schools. Cath-suspend tax exemption on its own -to refuse to patronize institutions







a chaplain to serve Congress? Close and this is not permitted to do. Cath-otic seminaries are free to operate, authority was correct. And 2)that that practice, whatever the aegis, ra­
students of American history agree olic, Protestant and Jewish schools under tax exemption, even though Mr. Reagan is unwise in asking cial discrimination. 
that the Supreme Court has ruled ab-all over the country are tax exempt. they do not admit women, because Congess to assume powers Congress surdly in the matter of the wall be-Is it true that they are being sub-tween church and state, but the sidized? If so, under current rulings separationists stop short ofcomplain-of the court, then this is unconstitu-
A young man is shooting from his First, the p~t recoiled in hor­ing that In God We Trust appears on tiona(, a violation of the First 
window at passer's-by, using a gun ror from the thought that the IRS was our coinage , that "under God" ap-Amendment. 
Garry Wills
his grandmother gave him. His making "social law." You might 

pears in the pledge of allegiance, or Well then, suppose we use a term 
grandfather comes and says that is a think that all laws are social, but that chaplains open sessions of less direct than "subsidization." 
misuse of the gun, and he should give "social" has a particular meaning Congress with a prayer, pahaps be-Say, merely, that the government 
it back. An old man leaps out to say for the right-wing--much as in the 
Outrider 

cause even atheists "Permit them-gives "special consideration" to en-
that a gift is a gift, and the grandfat­phrase "social disease." The idea of selves to wonder, given how terprises that aren't run for profit and 
her should butt out. the IRS making a social law! Later Congress performs with prayer, how that engage in education It isn't a 
is called getting government off our
Friends of those being shot at in on, President Reagan would ask Congress would perform without "subsidy," but it is a "preference." 
backs. "We'll continue to prohibit a tax the street complain to the old man Congress to pass the same law, and 
prayer. In what sense? In the sense that such 
that he is defending a potential mur­then it would no longer be social. Comes, then the matter of racial enterprises -whether they· are 
exemption for schools that dis­
derer. The old man answers that this The president said that he would integration at two colleges, one of teaching youn people arithmetic, or 
criminate and for the first time that
1s a terrible misinterpretation, en­take the blame for his moves, then them Bob Jones University. My col-whether they are exploring in An-
will be the I law ofthe land." Eitherit
couraged no doubt by the evil media. counted the ways he meant to take league Patrick Buchanan, in an ex-tarctica, or whether they are 
is the law of the land or it isn't. If it
His objection was only credit: "And we since--what we cellent analysis, has pointed out that taxonomiZing arcane buttertlies ­
is, why does he ask Congress for new
"procedural"--gift-giving has its have accomplished with what we did Bob Jones does admit blacks but does are perfoming a socially protected 
legislation? If it isn't, why does he
obligations (even when the gifts are was we've prevented the IRS from permit interracial dating or marriage, activity. 
continue to enforce it")
secret). He meant to say nothing determining national social policy all because such is the trustees' reading Can it be said that an enterpise can 
''And we helped to reserve the
about the morality of shooting at by itself." But the president backed of the Bible and scattered references be socially useful, even if racially· 
rights and liberties of religious
people. Come to think of it, he is so off from his first stand precisely be­to the separation of races. discriminatory ? Well, yes. Dis-
schools as long as they don't dis­
stricken with the sudden horror the cause it was established that the The notion of endogamy is by no crimination on grounds of race is, in 
criminate." There was no challenge
thought of shooting people that he Congress and the courts had been in­means distinctive to forms of Chris-my judgement, unintelligent and 
to other exemptions. And calling one
thinks there should be a law against volved in the non-discrimination tian fundamentalism. It rates very morally wrong. But that is also true 
exemption into doubt certainly does
it. rulings on tax-exempt schools. How high in Jewish law, and verierated in of other practices. For instance, I 
not help keep others from challenge. 
The friends say there IS a law did the president prevent the IRS tribal practices in many ~rts of deem it unintelligent and morally 
The president wants to be praised, 
against it, and the old man bursts into from making policy? By trying to Africa, which practices in turn have wrong to discriminate as so many 
on several fronts, for being either a
a winning smile: "There you are! See cancel that policy, then reinstating it! religious sanction. It is Mr. Buc-academic faculties do, against 
bigot or an idiot. And the country ap­
what I accomplished?" "It'll now be elected officials, the hanan's point that to tell Bob Jones religion, for which many faculties 
plauds. Poor country. It will be a
That is not a caricature of Mr. Congress." But the president has on­that it may not receive tax exemp-feel a tacit, and often an explicit, 
source of continual amazement for
Reagan's press conference treatment ly asked Congress to legislate, while tions because of its interpretation of contempt -notwithstanding that 
future historians that this president
of his own acts in the school tax-restoring the policy himself. In other the Bible is to arrogate to the Internal eyuality in the eyes ofGod is the mot-
could sniile and lie, joke and be
exemption case. It understates the words, having first yuestioned the Revenue Service, or to the courts, or her lode of the proposition that all 
dumb, and get credit for the weird
absurdity. Any parallel must do that. status quo, he then restored it, and to Congress, the right to interpret the men are born eyual. But I would not 
performance. Polls show that we
The president said, "The'buck stops asked Congress belatedly to endorse Bible; and this we don't really want want a law that would reach into the 
Americans think he is doing a bad
here,·' then tnoved ··here·' all over the restoration, which was only to do, do we? I can think of at least curriculum of Yale University to ask 
job, and we love him for it. We
the place, faster than the carnival con called for by his first cancellation. three cardinal virtues that Congress whether religion was being given an 
deserve him. 
man can move a pea under his shells. This feckless expenditure of energy 

As ERA fades into the sunset • • • 

With his recent decisions, Idaho sion. In this particular case, such severe reductions m the social Let's go back to ERA. To pacify 

Jenny Pitts
federal judge Marion Callister may worries are unnecessary. The exten­services budgets, Mr. Reagan has pro-ERA Republicans at the 1980 have pulled the plug on the support sion clause, an unprecedented move, designated the poor, economically convention Reagan inserted into his mechanisms sustaining a somewhat was bound to end up before the· weak, and politically marginal as the ·acceptance speech a promise to comatose ERA. Supreme Court eventually. class upon whose shoulders will fall "establish a laison with the 50 Judge Callister's decision was So, although a maJonty of the burden of economic recovery. govenors to eliminate, wherever it 

by statute approach is enormouslytwofold. First, he ruled that Congess American men, women. Democrats, Since it is women, as a class, who are occurs, discrimination against 
time consuming and expensive. But lacked proper authority to extend, and Republicans favor its passage, poorer, economically weaker, and women." Not one for making idle 
more than that, denial of eyuality of from March 1979 to June 1982. the ERA appears for the time being a politically more marginal than men, threats. Mr. Reagan established the 
rights under the law i' wrong just as deadline for ratitication of ERA by moribund issue. they arc disproportionately hurt by Fifty States Project for Women 
slavery was wrong. The Eyual Rights individual state legislatures. Second, One person, if not publically, then the economic reforms. consisting of 50 gubernatorial aides 
Amendment("· Eyuality of rights un­Callister ruled that states can indeed privately smiling at the Idaho deci­and a junior White House assistant 
der the law shall not be denied orSocial food
rescind a pro-ERA vote (five states, sion, is President Ronald Reagan. Cuts m Security, The group has metonce, October 7, abridged by the United States or any
stamps, and Medicare programs will

Idaho, Tennessee, Kentucky. South Reagan does not like ERA. The 1981. Considering the President's state on account of sex") is so ob­
adversely affect women, who con­

Dakota, and Nebraska have done so). 1980 Republican party platform did own National Security Advisor vious that it is hard to believe that it
stitute nearly 75 percent of the na­

With only a few months left in not explicitly support women's rights found itdifticult to have access to the has to be included as a consitutional
tion's elderly poor. Aid to Families

which to garner the support of eight for the first time in 42 years. Women President, I seriously doubt that a amendment. But the Consitution
with Dcpen.dent Children (ADC) has

states, and thus the reyuisite 38, a did not like Ronald Reagan. In 1980 junior assistant wields much clout at does have to be amended to include
been cut by 8 percent, a cut that could 

yuiet death is almost certain. In fact women votedaKainst Ronald Reagan 1600 Pennsylvania Ave., especially ERA, just as it had to be amended to
potentially reduce all or partial

it is certain when one considers that by 54 percent. The yuestion is, does with an unsympathetic president. 
prohibit slavery, something which
benefits to 6.6 million people. Final­

no state legislature has approved the Ronald Reagan like women? \1r. Reagan is happy that a campaign now seems eyually as obvious.
ly, by handing back to the states

ERA in tive years. Mr. Reagan is fond of saying he's promis~ is kept and the issue is frag­Ratification of the ERA is the fas­
programs such as day care funding

Much has been made of the fact for the E and the R but not the A. mented and diffused. 
test and most effective way to change
(thus getting government off his

that Judge Callister was formerly a Deferring to Judge Callister's deci­Fragmenting is popular with the the legal status of women. A
back). Ronald Reagan created a

ranking official in the Mormon sion we can put aside, for the mo­President. He has said that the way to piecemeal, statute hy statute ap­
situation whereby these programs are

church, a group firmly opposed to the ment, the yuestion as to whether Mr. achieve eyual rights 1s statute by proach is not. But with a noncom­
competing among themselves for

Eyual Rights Amendment. I would Reagan should be for the A. Rather, statute. It's hard to believe thi>. It's mined, if not hostile president. an
state block grant money. In m>lre

be hesitant to yuestion Judge Cal­it may be more interesting to see just as ludicrous as if Lincoln were to Idaho judge's decision. and time
than a few instances, the program

listder's yualifications for hearing how his policies embody eyual have said that the way to eliminate rapidly running out, it may be quite a
reductions have forced low income

the case; conceivably every judge has rights. slavery is on a case by case basis. If while before women arc assuredThrough such measures as working mothers to yuit their jobs
potential contlicting interests which, nothing else. a case hy case. statute eyual treatment under the law. 
and go on welfare.

it could be argued, temper his deci-recessive changes in the tax code and 

==~Observer== 
Founded November 3, 1966 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report­ed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. ColltUiln space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, i5 encounged. 
P.O. BoxQ, Notre Dame,_IN 46556 
Editorial Board 
f:'flitlJr-in-Cbief....... . .............John .\k·Grath Executiue .'lleu•s Editor. . Kdli flint .~ports Editor .......... .. Skip Desjardin Neu•s /:'di/or............................. David Rickabaugh Photo Editor................... .. .......... .John .\1a<.·or S.'I1C /;'xeculit•e Editor........... :-.tary Agnes Care~ Editorials Editor...... ................Anthony Walton SMC .'1/eu•s Editor. ....................Cathy Domanico Features Editor ..................... .. Gregory Swkrcz 
Department Managers 
Business ,\1anager ......................... Rich Coppola Production.Wanager .................. :\1ichad .\tonk Controller.............................................joe .\1ulflur Circulation .'11anager .............Tom .\1acLennan Adz,ertising Manager.......................Chri~ O"ven Srstems .Wanager...........................Bruce Oalde~ 

~j)()~tS=lJ==~==t=·~;-~S================================T=h=ur=sd=a=y=,J~at=lu=ary==2=8=,I=9=8=2==p=a=ge==7 
B1 The ( )fJsen•er and Tbe Associated l'ress 
IBASKETBALL.illw 
Yesterday's Results 
Notre Dame 79, Maine 55 
Malne(55) 
M FG-A FT-A R F 
p 

P1ckenng 35 6-13 1·3 6 1 13 
Cook 16 1·4 2·2 6 1 4 Cross 34 10·17 2·2 10 5 22 Green 21 1·5 0·0 1 1 2 Sturgeon 32 1·6 0·0 3 1 2 Hedtler 22 3·8 0·1 1 3 6 Kelsey 10 0·2 0·0 2 3 0 TopiiH 9 2·4 0·0 1 0 4 Wheeler 12 1·5 0·0 1 1 2 Gunn 9 0·0 0·0 1 2 0 200 25-64 5-8 32 18 55 
FG Pet. · 391 FT Pet. · .625. Team 
rebounds • 5. Turnovers • 21 ASSIStS · 11 
(Sturgeon 4) Techmcals • Cross (grabbmg 
thenm) 
Notre Dame (79) 
M FG-A FT-A R F p 
Varner 37 6·12 2·2 5 2 14 
Spencer 25 2·6 1·2 8 3 5 
Andree 33 5·7 0-0 6 1 10 
M1tchell 33 5·7 4-4 2 0 14 
Paxson 36 8·16 8·10 1 3 24 
Grassey 3 1·1 1·2 0 0 3 
Kelly 4 0·2 1-2 1 0 1 
Love 3 1·1 0·0 1 0 2 
200 31-58 17-22 27 11 79 
FG Pet 534 FT Pet. • .773 Tearn rebounds • 4 Turnovers · 6 ASSISts • 14 (Mitchell and Paxson. 5 each). Techmcals · None 
Halfhrne · Notre Dame 37. Ma1ne 23 OH1· c1als · To'Tl Rucker. M1ke Stockner. Ben Re111y (all B1g 10) A· 11 062 
See BOARD, page 10 
The ND women's swimming team dett:ated Val­paraiso, 7H-59, last night at the Rockne Memorial Pool. Sophomore Gail-Marie Kasell was a double winner for the Irish in the 500-yard freestyle ( 5:42.7) and the 200-yard freestyle ( 2: 12.9H). Notre Dame broke a two-meet losing streak with the victory, which upped the team's record to 3·2. The Irish will be back in action tomorrow after· noon at the Rock against Western Ontario. The meet begins at 4 p.m. 
-The Observer 

Tickets for away Notre Dame basketball games against Seton Hall and Michigan arc available at the second floor ticket office in the ACC. Tht.· Seton Hall game will be held on Thursday, February 1 Hat the Meadowlands Arena in East Rutherford, N.J. Tickets for the Michigan game, to be held at the Silven.lome in Pontiac, Mich., on Sunday, March 7, are priced at S4, S6 and SH. -The Observer 
The Student Union continues to sponsor ski trips to Swiss Valley every Saturday night during the winter months. Busses depart from the Main Circle at 5 p.m. and return at I I p.m. Bus tickets can be purchased in advanct.· from the Student Union for 
S2.50, or on the bus itself for $3.00. Also, discounted lift tickets and ski rental are available -The Obserl'er 
The ND Billiards Tournament begins this Monday, February I in the poolroom in LaFortune (located below the Huddle). It will be straight billiards of I00 balls. Players call their own shots and the winner advances to the finals, where the cham­pion gets a trophy. There arc no entrance fees -you only pay for your time ofplaying. Students may sign up in the poolroom anytime 
-The Obsen1er 
Cross-country ski rentat is available weekends to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. For details, call 239·51 00. The Observer 
The Chicago White Sox winter publicity caravan will stop in South Bend on Wednesday, February 3. Events include a press conference at the Knights ofColumbus Hall, H 15 N. Michigan, at 6:30p.m., w be followed by a smoker at 7 p.m. Featured guests will include manager Tony LaRussa, catcher Carlton Fisk, slugger Greg Luzinski, outfielder Tom Paciorek, and also the Sox' new mascots, "Ribbic" and "Roobarb." Players will be availabh: for autographs af· ter the. session. For more information, contact Dr. John Toepp at either 234-9HOO ( K ofC ), 28H-6321 (home) or 2H7-5542 (work)­The Obsen,er 

Rowan 26 3·6 0·0 3 2 6 

Classifieds  The Observer wtll accept classtfteds Mon­day through Fnday. 10 a.m. to 4 30 p.m. However. classtfteds to appear 1n the next tssue must be rece1ved by 3 p.m. the bustness day pnor to 1nsert1on. All class1f1eds must be prepaid, e1ther 1n person or through the ma11  
STUDENT RENTALS. 2 SIX BEDROOM NEED LOTS OF MARQUETTE TIXNOTICES HOUSES NEX< DOOR TO EACH x8291 OTHER FULLY CCARPETED FIREPLACE AND LOFT CALL 272­I desperately need San Fransctsco G A sATTENTION ALL ST LOU I SANS 7767. 232-4057 272·2720 call Dan 1171Are you look1ng tor a SUMMER JOB 1n ST lo()UIS?????? The Sl LOUIS CLUB FURNISHED HOMES CLOSE TO ND H 'llay be able to help you Call B111 alll75 fo1 FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 277-3604 I desperalely need 'llany Marquette Bas· rnore Information ketball T1ckels Please call MARY at 8009 FURNISHED HOME AVAILABLE NOW THANKS! PLO MEETING TONIGHT Yasar Aralarl 277-3604 look alike conlestl I have two Keenan Revue ttx lor Satur­day Will trade for rwo on Fflday Call T1meHtc1ency apt.pnvate enterance al1536lOOmo.close lo n d also 3 bed house 1 1/2 bath call 2558505 LOST/FOUND Wanled 2 G A s for NORTH CAROLINA 2 ROOMS PRIVATE SHOWER AND ST on 2·13 CALL TOM al1470 ENTRANCE 288·0955 Found Blue and green scarf D1scovered at BendiX Woods 1/14/62 Call John al HELP HELP HELP 13 MARQUETTE 1764 to 1denllly AMAZONIANS HAVE PROMISED ME 69 INCREDIBLE SEXUAL FAVORS IF I LOST SILVER AMETRON WATCH WANTED CAN COME UP WITH 14 MARQUETTE LOST SOMEWHERE NEAR MENS B BALL TIX STUDENTIX GAS EVEN LOCKER ROOM AT THE ROCK OLD MARQUETTE FOOTBALL TIX ANYONE HAVING ANY INFORMATION PLEASE ANY NO WILL HELP YOU CAN Need fide Ia Cleveland 0 Fflday Jan OF THE WHEREABOUTS OF THIS 29 Can leave anyllme Call John 3770 EVEN WATCH THESE FAVORS FROM WATH CAN CONTACT ME AT x3113 OUR VELVET VIEWING ROOM IF YOU ASK FOR BOB NEED FEMALE ROOMMATE FOR CALL TIX FOR TEX 6232 CAMPUS VIEW FALL SEMESTER FOUND. FOREIGN COIN ON ROAD BE· Need studenl t1cket lor Marquette CallNEED IMMEDIATE REPLY X4515 HIND FIREHOUSE CALL 4635 TO Chns al3574 Pay1ng b1g Omaha bucks IDENTIFY 2 RIDERS NEEDED TO MARDI GRAS Need MARQUETTE TIX (Siud orGA)Feb 1 8·23 Call Bnan 8928 LOST-rockwell calculator 1n north dtnmg Please call Susan al 8027 hall over weekend no questions RIDERS NEEDED to Clev P1t1s Wesl asked.call Bert at 6863 I need aboul 5 Marquette tiCkets! ( Slu·PA area for Feb 12·14 Call2843 dent or G A ) Please call Maureen at FOUND SET OF SIX KEYS, 241 8082Need nder to John Carroll Un1vers11 y '" OUTSIDE CAVANAUGH CALL TOM AT Cleveland for THIS Weekend. Jan 29 1470 Need G A or student Marquette tiX! CallCall John at 3527 Greg. 1082 LOST NO Key Cha1n and Key It found Need fide to St LoUis lh1s weekend. Will Cal12843 NEED Marquette t~>. Vmce x1238 share usual T J x3369 LOST TEXAS INSTRUMENT CAL· Need fide to DAYTON lh1s Fn. W1ll payCULATOR LOST BEFORE usual Call Mike 11 82 PERSONALSCHRISTMAS BREAK IN NIEWLAND SCIENCE HALL PLEASE CALL 287­NEED RIDE TO JACKSON Ml2405 IF YOU KNOW ITS WEEKEND OF FEB 5-7 CALL MIKE NIGHTSOUNDS 105 FM 10 30 PM WHEREABOUTS THANK YOU 1857 10LOST. ONE PEARL NECKLACE. lost be· WANTED TO TRADE I have two Keenan HIDDEN HEARTS' Feb 12 Zah>n Ask atween the Huddle and the library·'' lound Revue llx tor Sat n1te. need two for Zahrnbte\please call264-4961 (necklace has deep Fflday Call T1m 1536 pronto' senllmenlal value) reward Thank you WANTED MARQUETTE TIX CALL MOLLY 8034 Lost Key flng Wllh live keys Losl 1n library or La Fortune Please call 6932 FOR SALE SOCIAL CONCERNS FILM SERIES··· January 26-February5 Lust women s S1eko quartz walch lost be· lween Madeleva and Reg1na Call JOdi Soc1al Concerns F1lm Sefles4714 SMC FOR SALE Two studded snow tlfes W1ll TRUE CONFESSIONS f1t most compacl cars $25 00 each For January 28 and 29 lost Oscar de Ia Renra gla£ses at Wash· more 1nlo call Andy al x8446 7 9 and 11 p mtngton Hall Call Jod1 4 714 SMC Engmeenng Audttortum $1 QQ admiSSIOnPOUND SIX keys on flng lound Monday Co-sponsored by Sludent Un1onn1ghl behind Huddle Call 283-7960 or 239· 7524 and ask for Barb TICKETS TRUE CONFESSIONS January 28 and 29 LOST the san.t y at one men s dorm Eng1neenng Aud1tonurn found conlacl Keent.in 7 9. and 11 p m HELP' I NEED MARQUETTE BASKET· $1 00 admiSSIOn BALL TICKETS CALL STEVE AT 8729 Soc1al Concerns F1l'l1 Sefles Co·sponsored by Student Un1onFOR RENT Need MEGA Marquetle TIX · Call D1ck al 277-6065 SOCIAL CONCERNS FILM SERIES-­DOCUMENT ARIES 1 BEDROOM EFFICIENCY FOR RENT. Desperately need 2 GAs lor MAR­7 30 p m Excuse Me Ameflca FURNISHED \filTH UTILITIES QUETTE' Parents amv1ng soon Please 9 30 p m Hlfosh1ma PARKING YAI'tiJ LIGHTS OFF Call Al1384 DISCUSSIOn loiiOWing each film PORTAGE··612 N CUSHING MAKE January 26--LaFortune Ballroom OFFER tlEFERENCES NO LEASE Need 'llany MU tiX ED atl 068 FREE Adm1ss1on 28911>87  SOCIAL CONCERNS FILM SERIES··· DOCUMENTARIES dtscuss1on lollowtng each ftlm Excuse Me Amenca-·7 30 p m D1scuss10n w1th Dean K Wetgert HlroShlma·-9.30 p.m D1scuss1on w11h Prof John Ro,,s January 28··LaFortune Ballroom FREE admiSSIOn CONGRATULIONS BILL SLATTERY ON YOUR VASECTOMY BILL WILL DO ANYTHING FOR A DATE I HAVE AT HIM GIRLS TWO IT 0~ A WINDSURFER CRYSTAL ROCKS CRYSTAL ROCKS CRYSTAL ROCKS Th1s Fnday al LaFortune s Chatauqua 9· 1 PARTYI! The SHAD 1s secretly Lamoni Crawfish wealthy f1sh·about-1own.. Margo. where are you? 0 K Musumeci IS ugly Bul as lasl years vote clearly shows. MIKE GURDAK IS THE UMOC! M1ke Gurdak 1S so ugly thai Hudson s of Umvers1ty Park Mall altered hiS campa1gn $50 11 he would lUSt stay oul of the store He s so ugly Ihat the South Dtn~ng Hall htred htm to make thetr food look good So cast your vote for the tn· cu'llbent UMOC. MIKE GURDAK!!'!!! Help'!'! My parents desperalely need TWO Marquette G A s My acade'lliC future 15 on the hne Pleaase call Tom at 3176 SOCIAL CONCERNS SEMINAR 1n Washmgton.DC Spnng Break·· applicat1on extended to Ffl Feb 29 Mar­Cia LeMay. CEL 1110 Mem L1b 239·5319 Jeb Cashin and Stmon should go\ We have had enough Comedy 1sn t pretty and th1s proves tl Please gtve us a break and get nd of Stmon!!!! Oh. Connor Larkin·· Whal did a mce Protestant g1rl ltke me do to deserve lh1s!!? Love. Shelley Macleod Don t fret lolks The sponsors have not yet cancelled thai highly accla1med melodrama Those Fabulous Feisty Wenches, slamng 1n alphabetical Qrder Dons. the devthsh devtale. Sweet Jane Krahy Ka11e. and Polly the Blonde Bombshell Jam us each week as these versatile actresses and thetr famous guest stars travel the world tn search of love. hate adventure. and the pertecl happy hour Be watch1ng tomorrow when you II hear Dom Blfdlegs F1co scream Katie say. M1ke. lake your head out of the refngerator The baktng soda ts g01ng bad I may be cwazy but I m not g01n to Alcal· waz!!l · LOGAN CENTER VOLUNTEERS Don t lorgel th1s Salurday IS SNOW REC' We are gomg tub1ng at Erskine Country Club Meet at Logan at 9 00 and we w1ll be back by 11 30 All volunteers are encouraged to come Make sure and dress warmly  Palty Hulley ·Such the brazen wench! DAN KEUSAL AND FRIENDS . FEB 5 AT THE NAZZ DON T MISS THIS ONE I Absurd Erratum The Personals mis­OAKLEY YOU RE NUTSI!! takenly reported that John the B•rdman Macor had reSigned lrom UMOC competl· No. I m not lion yesterday Mr Macor s opponents 1n lh1s annual An T ostal even I placed lh1s Do YOU know what DOGSBODY 1s? hoa>e '" the personals m order to Emm1e Lopez does!! I d1m1n1Sh h1s mass campus appeal Ab­surdlsts apolog1ze lor any lncon­DAVE RATHGEBER IS one of the mcest ven•ence lh1s may have caused readers guys on the NO campus Best of luck w1th your law school admtss1ons Hope your last semester IS one of your bestThe rare Ver Berkmoes1ack·rabblt loveWoe unto my poor htred paws The Googs They re not lor sale-there must be laws Why do you hunl me have you lhe flghl? LEWIS HALL PIZZA SALES IS NOWWell you d better watch out cause lhts OPEN FOR DINNER ON FRIDAYS6 00­rabbtl w111 ftght 8 30 AND SUNDAYS 3 00-5 30 PLACENo. Ill not cower w1lh1n my safe horne ORDERS IN LEWIS BASEMENT ORThough better that than '" a bnar ~11th a gnome CALL 3981 COME AND CHOW Remember Carrots w1ll come and Car­GURDAK may be a Holy Cross Hog. but rots w111 go MUSUMECI IS truly a sw1ne MUSUMECI but lh1s lillie bunny can Sl1ll run on snow­FORUMOC lUSt how last. you II never know a 111 cottonla11 AnoreXIa (se~f·slarvallon) and Bulim1a (b1nge eallng/purg,ng) are seflous diSOr­ders 01ff1cu11 to admit and d1ff1cult lo Sue I understand your penetr allan 1nto change Bul help IS available Contacl the haJnest reg1ons of Jungle culm1nated tn Dr Dan Ryb1ck1 or Dr Sue ~1e1be al 239· lhe diScovery of a desert ·Stanley. 7336 tor 1nlormat1on about the open Ltv1ngston. and Ryan meeting to select tunes for the PROBLEMS IN EATING Group. meetmg Mon1ca Words alone cannot express rny this week at 7pm Thurs 3rd lloor. Slu· true feelrngs for you Ptlysrcal exer!fon den! Heallh Center. Psychological cannot quell my destre tor you Wild fan­Serv1ces las y cannot sllll "'y puls1ng heart lor you Huwever rnaybe a cold shower Will sufftce Then agatn 11aybe a luke-warm FT. LAUDERDALE AT SPRING BREAK one will do Love Unde Ryan Including round trip motor coach transportation and 7 nights ac­Suzanne Wa11 t1ll tomorrow (IS your comoclatlona . $50 deposit required by burrow flooded?) monday Feb. tat .For mora Information ·The Carrot call Paul Seminara at 283·6768. WEDNESDAYS CHILD Rosemary Most del1nne1 yl D1d you go to a party tn the basement at Carol. Kate. and A1leen Grace last Salurday 'mght? If you d1d. I hat guy who sa1d thai he couldn t dance was TRICIA··BreaklasiiS boflng w1thout you drunk off hm {you know what) Please Qlve AI a call ar 6 726 for lessons Please! POLAR BEAR T AILGA TEA SAT BEFORE HOOPS GAME II COLD BEER. Hey J•>hn e HOT DOGS. WARM PEOPLE!I RUN BY Is 11 that HARD lor you to lake a shower? THE BIG RED ALL ARE WELCOME. The Dor'll GREEN FIELD. 5 30·GAMETIMEII No make thai Notre Dame Mr. Mojo·a rlaln' (and he knows Charpada) UMOC A new cand1da1e has been placed on the ballet for UMOC RONNIE TRAW IS our BlgL: cand1dale for UMOC here al Notre Dame H1s roommate. the Infamous John B. IS Ronn1e s manager John IS uglier than Paula Go tump on a PIERRonme. but John. an UMOC rec1pent 1n the enure state of WJsc:.onsm. 1s so To the two cute runners from Grace, generous at:. -lot to run th1s year But he Whose fat takes up only 3. 5 percent body has taught Ronme everything he knows space.Ronnte. whose face has been used as a Don t let g~rls 1nto your room the n1ghlpatch-o_ut stnp tor dragsters. ts the before your race.UGLIEST MoFacky lh1s s1de of lhe Inter­And M1tch. try to steep tn your own place!national Daleline RonnleTraw UMOCofthe Year Valentines Eve Party AWESOME Hey Murray You re the D.B.U.M.O.C. More tnformatton comtng. LOOK FOR IT 7SEAGRAMS AND FACT OR RUMOR Mark Lumb wears. 7UP o d. underwear AND 7KEGS 9th FLOOR UNITE  

• 

The Observer-Sports Thursday, January 28, 1982 -page 8 

__ College roundup
.,•••. 
............i 

•
+ 
•
: 

15% Discount: 




N.~:~~.c.£
•: Students t 
:university Park Mall and :t Concord & Pierre Morant 
• Malls -Elkhart t
.................... 

Miss. St. upsets Kentucky 
'Cats lose again 
STARKVILLE, Miss. (AP) -Butch Pierre sank key free throws last night to help Mississippi State win its first Southeastern Conference basketball game of the season with a 56-51 up­set over No. 7 Kentucky. 
After a 22-22 deadlock at the half, Mississippi State eased ahead, 27-26, on two free throws by Pierre. Pierre also added MSU's final two points from the free throw line. 
Kentucky edged to within one point when Derrick Hord scored on a layup to make it 34-33, MSU, with a little more than I I minutes to play. 
Mississippi State was leading 52­49 with 33 seconds to play whenJeff Malone hit two free throws. Ken­tucky's Jim Master responded with two more free throws, but his team couldn't score in its last four posses­sions. 
State's Kalpatrick Wells blocked 
three Kentucky shots and made two 
critical steals late in the game to help 
MSU break its two-year, 16-game 
SEC losing streak. 
Hurd and Malone tied for scoring 
honors with 16 points each. Pierre 
scored 15 points, nine of which 
came from the free throw line. 

Frazier leads Tigers 
AMES, Iowa (AP)-Ricky Frazier tossed in 21 points and four other Missouri players scored in double figures as the No.l-ranked Tigers defeated Iowa State 86-73 last night in Big Eight Conference basketbalL 
Missouri, playing its first game since taking over the No. I spot, sent its record to 17-0 for the season and 6-0 in the Big Eight. Iowa State, which made a run at Missouri after falling behind by as many as 21 
points in the first half, went to 6-11 overall and 1-4 in the league. 
John Sundvold scored 15 points for Missouri, which shot 60 percent for the game. Marvin McCrary and Steve Stipanovich each had 14 and Dressler added 12. Ron Harris led Iowa State with 20 points, all but four in the second half, and Mal War­rick added I7. 
Carolinasurvives 

CHAPEL HILL, N.C. (AP)-Jimmy Black and Matt Doherty each scored a career-high 21 points as second­ranked North Carolina overcame a 

THE FUTURE. FIND OUT FOR YOURSELF. 

That's the date when engineers from General Dynamics wtll be here on campus to talk technology with graduating engineering or science students. We'll be here to answer your questions and to tell you everything you need to know about our broad spectrum of opportunities and about how you can begin a rewarding career with General Dynamics. 
Located in Southern California, the Pomona Division is a world leader in the design and manufacture of tactical missiles and armament systems. We're growing and adding to our engineering staff every day, and there's outstanding growth potential for motivated people. Talk to us about how you can be involved with highly-tec-hnical and challenging state-of-the-art projects with General Dynamics. 
Don't wait. Contact your Placement Office now for your interview. Or, drop a line to: Frank LeRoy, College Relations Coordinator, P.O. Box 3011 Pomona, CA 91769 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
U.S. Citizenship Required 
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS 

February 4 & 5 
Pomona Division 

L___________________________________________________________ ----­
nine-point deficit in the second half to defeat Clemson 77-72 in Atlantic Coast Conference basketball action last night. 
The scoring honors were espe­cially welcome for the pair, as Doherty did not score in the last game against Georgia Tech and Black scored only three points. Doherty, who averages 8.2 points, was 8-of-16 from the floor. Black, averaging 7.1, was 8-of-1 1. 
Vince Hamilton led the Tigers with 20 points, including three quick baskets early in the first half 
james Worthy, averaging 16.1 points, was held to seven by the Tiger defense, while center Sam Perkins was held beneath his I 5.7 average with I I points. 
The victory raised North Carolina's record to I 5-l overall and 6-1 in the ACC. Clemson fell to 9-7, 2-6 in the conference. 
U.Va. tops Wake 
GREENSBORO, N.C. (AP) Freshman Tim Mullen scored a career-high 21 points as -third­ranked Virginia held off No. 18 Wake Forest 69-66 in an Atlantic Coast Conference basketball game last night. 
Mullen. a 6-5 forward, got I 2 of his points in the first half when Vir­ginia spurted to a pair of 1!-point leads. The Cavaliers made those leads stand up, although the Demon Deacons trimmed the margin to two on several occasions, including a 68­66 score with six seconds left. 
Virginia guard Othell Wilson then 
provided the final margin with the 
first of two free throws and 7-4 
Ralph Sampson blocked Scott Davis 
shot at the buzzer. 
The victory boosted Virginia to 19-1 and gave it sole pos!>ession of second place in the ACC with a 5-1 mark lt also was the Cavaliers' second consecutive ictory. 
Wake Forest, which reappeared in the Top 20 this week for the first time since the preseason poll, fell to 13-4, 4-2 in league play. 
Mullen received support from Wilson with I5 points and Sampson with 10. Jim Johnstone, a 6-1 I senior, led the Demon Deacons with 
19 points and matched Sampson's game-high nine rebound total. 
DePaul breezes 
ST. LOUIS (AP) -junior Tern Cummings led a I2-2 spurt midwa' in the opening half last night to kad DePaul to a 99-80 victory over out­classed St Louis. The win wa~ till 667th career triumph fl1r Blu, Demons Coach Ray Meyer. The.: (lK· year-old Meyer moved illlo a 1i< with John Wooden for t1fth plan· among all-time winningest eolkgc coaches. 
DePaul, shooting 46.7 pern·nt. 
forced St.  Louis into  I""  turnon-r~  
and  owned  a  -+6-32  command  at  
halftime.  

The Blue Demons were on II op h\ 77-49 with 9:.39 remaining, and the.: closest St. Louis came after that "a~ 93-80 with 4"{ sc.:eonds to go. 
Balanced DePaul scoring in­cluded 20 points by senior Skip Dil­lard and 1-l by junior Bernard Randolph. 
~lOW€RS anb Cjl~tS ~OR all OCGaSSJOnS Com€ In anb BROWS€. 
~ 
Wyc;ant ~loRal Co. 327 llncolnway 
----------
------~----~ 
The Observer-Sports 
Thursday, January 28, 1982-page 9 

low-a seeks to break MSU jinx 
What's the snow like? What's the driving like? What's going on? 
CALL MICHIGAN'S 
TOLL-FREE 

WHAT'S LINES. 
800-248-5708 
24-hour recorded mes-• a •_..-•....;•;.-:_..,.-=u-, 
sages keep you up-to-.:··· 
date on Michigan snow 
conditi --rlOI.NV~::.,...­
Our travel specialists will give you all you need 
to know about all there is to ski and do in 
Michigan. Call between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. E.S.T., 
Monday through Friday. 

MICHIGAN TRAVEL BUREAU 
Ohio State: team that has dcft:ated Iowa in Iowa City in each of the last thn:e years. 
But all of those revt:rsals arc in the past and Iowa currently leads tht: Big Ten with a 5-I record and is I 3-2 overalL 
Olson admits Iowa's won-Joss record might be slightly better than he might have expected but added "our guards have played well and our forwards have played welL 
We've bc:en a little up and down in the middle." 
If the: Ilawkt:yes don't break their jinx at Michigan State, the logjam for !>econd place in the Big Ten could move right up to the top. One: game bc:hind the Hawkeyes and tkd for sn:ond place with 4-2 records are Minnesota, Ohio State, Indiana and Purdue. 
.\tinnesota plays at Northwestem tonight with Indiana at Wisconsin, Ohio State at Michigan and Illinois at Purdue. 


Mardi Gras Dancers! 
Just 2 weeks left to sell sponsorships. 
Must hurry! Highest seller gets a 19" color T,V, Second highest gets a stereo system, Also prizes for best dancers. 
+---It's all for fun and a good cause.------( Ask friends & family for support. 

ByJOE MOOSHIL 
AP Sports Wrltt•r 
When Coach Lute Olson of Iowa's sixth-ranked llawkeyes says "This is a key week with big games," you'd ht·tter believe him. 
Although Olson said he doesn't havt· any qualms or bdieve in jinxes, he certainly is aware that this week's opponents -Mit-higan State and Ohio State -have been no day at the beach for his Hawkeyes in recent 
years. Iowa plays at :'11ichigan State wnight where Olson-coached teams 
have lost seven times in the last seven years. The llawkeyes then return home ti1r a date against an 
UNC's Jordan shines among 1982 frosh 
ByJOHN NELSON 
Associated Pn•ss 
Michad Jordan speaks so softly, 
his vok'l' rarely can be: heard in tht· 
lot·ker room din, hut if basketball 
was a game playc:d with sticks, he 
would carry a big one, indeed. 
Almost from the outsl't of the 
1 ')H l-H2 college ba.,kc:thall season, Jordan rose to the head of the fresh­man class, casting a shadow that has obscured the tra(:ks of college rookies like Pat Ewing, Aubrey Sher­rod and Bobhy Lee: Hurt. 
Jordan has started every game this season ti>r North Carolina Coach Dc:an Smith. The 6-foot 5-inch leaper has averaged nearly I 6 points per game, swinging from guard to for­ward. 
"I surprist·d myself," Jordan, a native of Wilmington, N.C., said of his instant success. "I never thought I would be playing this well, hut now that I know I can. I jst keep going out and trying my best." 
Ewing, a 7-I(JOter from Jamaica who dedded to play college hall at Georgetown, was expected to hold thl· rookie spotlight, hut even the most astute observers of the game fed Jordan is the one squinting into the klieg lights now. 
"You've got to go to the kid, Jor­dan," says AI McGuire, former Mar­queue coach who now broadcasts college basketball for NBC-TV. 
"In high school, he was triple­teamed all the time, but now, with North Carolina, he's free as a bird. That's something you have to con­sider when you're in high schooL jordan went to a team with a great front line, so other teams can't con­
centrate on him." 

NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION's 
ANNlJAL 

SPRING BREAKIN DAYTONA BEACH 
MARCH 12-21, 1982 
Am••trMntls 6y 
ECHO TRAVEL, INC. MCISlS71F 
SIX PER ROOM 
(~ DOUBLE BEDS)





$J97 
FOUR PER ROOM (:I DOuiU BEDS) ·Guaranteed lut<:h.,netf"


$209 
or oc"anfront avail;ilik at ~mall additional charge. 
$50 Deposit due Feb. 15 Full payment due Feb. 22 
Limited space available 


OUR TRIPS AREALWAYS THE BESTDEAL AND THE BEST TIME 
The Piau Hotel, located right in the middle olthe: Strip, II ddlnltcly theplace to be durtll(l spring break. Ask anyone who has been to Daytona. 'The hoccl has a pool, big panydeck, restaurant, four ban, color1V, air conditioned rooms and plcntyolactlvlllca. Pictures an: available when: you sign up. Our motorcoachesarc n01hin11 but the highest quality hlgll-r coaches. We also l!lYC you more extras with our trip than anyone else. Don't blow It and go on a lower quality trip. 
LAST Y.&tR OVER 71 PEOPLEHAD THE TIME OF THEIR UFE ONTHIS TRIP. 
SIGN UP NOW AT THE TICKET OFFICE/ RECORD STORE 10 AM -.4 PM, MON.-FRI. 
OR CALL 283-3031 
FOR SPEEDY CARRY OUT OR 

DELIVERY 
(available 7days a week in heated containers) 
FOR THE BEST IN PIZZA, SANDWICHES, CHIPS 
AND COLD DRINKS 
PHONE 232-1883


PIZZA 

836 Portage Ave. • • South Bend ,Indiana : SOc off Small or Med. Pizza : 232-1883-• 
•

Hours: Sun. thru Thurs. 4pm-11 pm: $1.00off Large Pizza •
• 

Fri. -Sat. 4 pm ·I am : offer good thru Wed., feb. IS th •
•

&DS!---P.:~~ e e e e e e e e e e e e e e· e e e e e e e e e 


TRIP INaUDES 
· Round trip motor coach transponation •ia modem h•ghway wat·he~ to Daytona Beach, Florida leaving friday, March 12. arriving the: following day. The: return trip depans the: following Saturday arriving home Sunday. 
· Seven nights accommodations at the beautiful and exciting Plaza Hotel of Daytona Bc:ach. Located at 600 Nonh Atlantic Ave. it is the: most demanded hotel on the strip at that time:. 
· A truly great schedule of activities including our famous pool deck panics and belly flop contes~. 
• Optional excursions availabk to Disney World and !>C.'Vcr.al other attractions. · Numerous bar and restaurant discounts arranged in Daytona Beach for you. · The services of full lime travel reprnc:ntatives to 
insure a trouble-fr.,e trip. · All taxes and gratuities. 
... 
.. 
The Observer -Sports 

Thursday, january 28, 1982 -page 10
! 
J 
... 
******************* 

EARN ~~l BUCKS·/ 
Thenbserver~~ 

needs Design Assistants. .....,__One night each weele ..,._-Excellent working conditions 
.....,._-Fringe benefits t---Good times .....,._-Learn the newspaper business 
CallMIKE 239-7471 
By DAVE WILSON 
Sports Writer 
A desperation layup with no time 
remaining on the clock carried the 
Maroons of the University of 
Chicago to an emotional 73-72 bas­ketball victory over Saint Mary's Col­lege last night in the Angela Athletic Facility. The Belles seemingly had the game put away at 72-71 after guard Cyndy Short sank a jumper with :08 left in the game, but after a quick time-out, the Maroons proceeded to run the length of the court and steal away the victory. 
"There are just no words for a game like this," said Belles head coach Jerry Dallessio following the contest. "My team gave 100 percent and the difference ended up being one point. You can't help a loss like that." 
The game proved to be a well­balanced matchup between the two teams. Saint Mary's started slow and fell behind quickly at 16-6, but the team fought back for the remainder 
of the half to trail only .34-30 at the 


SMC drops heartbreaker to UC 
break. A desperation layup by Anne Armstrong at the halftime buzzer could have cut the lead to two, and hence would have been the margin of victory, but the officials declared that the shot came:: after the buzzer. 
The .Maroons were paced by I 7 first-half points from sharp-shooting forward Helen Straus, who was a constant scoring threat to Saint Mary's. 
"Straus really gave us some problems offensively," said Dalles­sio. "However, I think the one thing they had going for them was a speedy offense. We were forced to play a full-court defense so we could slow them down." 
The teams opened the second half trading baskets, but the Belles con­tinued to fight back and tied the game at 46 with 12 minutes to go. That's when the intensity of the game really picked up. The game proceeded to be tied at 48, SO, and 54 before Saint Mary's outscored Chicago 6-0 to take a 60-54 lead with eight minutes remaining. 
The Belles held on to that lead un-

Succeed 




inbusiness. 
ult's a lot easier with a Texas Instruments calculator designed to solve business problems." 
Touch a few ::;pecial keys on the::;e Texa::; Instruments calculator::;, the TI Bu::;ine::;::; Analyst-II'"and The MBA"~ and lengthy time-value-of-money problems ~uddenly aren't lengthy anymore. You can automati­cally calculate profit margins, forecast ::;ale::; and eaming·s and pelfonn ::;tatistic::;. 
And problem::; \\·ith repetitive calculation::; are a piece of cake for the ;\lEA. becau::;e it'::; prog-rammable. 
These calculators mean business, and what they give you is time-time to .b'Tasp underlying busine::;s concepts, while they handle the num­ber crunching. To make it even easier, each calculator comes \\ith'a book written especially for it, which shows you how to make use of the calculator's full potential. 
The Business Analyst-II and MBA business t:alculators from Texa.s_' lnstrun1ents.1\n~.~ 
ways to run a succes~ful bu~iness rna­jor, \\ithout running yourself ragged.  ~ ',/  
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS  
IN(ORPORATE.D  

l
TI Business Analyst-11 
"""li;;:J\;;;:.l\.;;..~ 
lo,OJ,\oool\;;,6\,;.;.l\;.... 
W~M;.i~\:;...11...:...; 
www~..;..u 
wuu-.aa 
t;:..JUUUtil 
L::ili&UU& L.iUUliliii& 

til the \1aroons surged back to take a 71-70 lead with 1:.30 remaining. A travelling call against Saint Mary's gave the ball back to Chicago, but the .\llaroons missed the front end of a one-and-one after a SMC foul. The Belles then appeared to put the game away with Short's bucket in the final seconds. 
Anne Armstrong led the Belles' 
scoring drive with 22 points, 
followed by Mary Pat Sitlington with 
16. and Gretchen Meyer with 13, I I in the second half. The Maroons were led by Straus with 21 points and Wendy Pietrzak with 14. 
Saint \1ary's will see some impor­tant basketball action this weekend when it plays . host to its own Roundball Classic. The Belles will seek the championship for the second straight year. The team will play Findlay at 9:00pm Friday night in Angela, following the first game of the tournament, which features St. Xavier and North Central. 
...Board 
continuedfrom page 7 

Last night's resun Notre Dame 78, Valparaiso 59 20Q-yard medley relay -NO (Lee Ann Bnslawn Teri Schindler. Kathy Lattno. Jean Murtagh) 2:00.3 
500-yard  freestyle  - Gail-Marie  Kasell  (NO)  
5:42.7.  
20D-yard  Intermediate  -Jeamne  BlaH  (NO)  
2:21.9.  

1OD-yard freestyle-Jean Murtagh (NO) :59.3. 50-yard breaststroke-Teri Schindler (NO) :34.0. 100-yard butterfly-Sheila Roesler (NO) 1:03.2. !-meter dtving-Diane Lentem (Val.) 176.25. 50-yard freestyle-Colleen Carey (NO) :26.56. tOG-yard backstroke -Ellen DeYoung (Val.) 
1:11.91. 1 00-yard 1ntermed1a1e -Jo Anne Pearl (NO) 1:08.71. 200·yard freestyle -Gati-Mane Kasell (NO) 2:12.98. 
50-yard butlertly-Carole Seymour (Val.) :30.63. 
3-meter diving-Joanne M1schanko (Val.). 
100-yard breaststroke -Anne Benott (Val.) 1:21.09. 
200-yard freestyle relay-Val. (Carole Seymour. Ellen DeYoung. Sally Van Duren. Sara Knapp) 1:54.06. 
Next meet: Fnday. January 29 vs Western On­tano at the Rock. 4 p.m. 
...Maine 
continued from page 12 
quette, DePaul and Dayton, three of the country's top independents. people will have to notice. An :'1/CAA bid is not out ofthe question." 
Nor is it in the immediate picture. Notre Dame will have to prove it can stay as hot and as high as it is right now. There are still a number ofvery tough games to go, and even a sweep of the remaining games would in no way insure a tournament bid. 
The idea right now should be to take one game at a time, concentrate on steady improvement, and let the chips fall where they may. Last night's game was encouraging, but a win against a decimated Maine team is by no means a ticket to New Or­leans. 
IRISH ITEMS: Cecil Rucker sa\\ absolutely no action last night. "Hl· . cut a class, and that's all I have to say," explained Phelps . . . Gary Grassey had three points, and Marc Kdly chipped in with one::, which mc::ans ;:hat every player on the Notre Dame roster has scored ths season ... Ron Rowan's hot streak cooled somewhat, as the frc::shman came up with onl}· six points ... Chappelle could not comment on the difference between Notre Darnl" and Marquette, the next Irish op­ponent. "l still haven't had time to figure out all the things Notre Dame did to us tonight," said the man who has now coached against both teams . . . The 79 points the lrbh scored represented the second­highest point -total of the season. topped only by the 82 points scored in the season opener against St. joe's. 
Ihe1Jbrerver==========~============================ 
~~~~~=============================T=h=u=rs=d=a=y,=j=a=n=ua=r=y=2=8='=1=9=8=2===p=a=g=e=l=l
Molarity 






The Daily Crossword 

Michael Molinelli 





ACROSS 33 Concert 1 &5 Asian openers tree 38 Holler 9 "-,rattle 39 Ecru shade 
and roll' 40 A mile ­14 Aida 43 Inhabitant: 15 Butterine suff. 16 Doorkeeper 44 Ratio 17 Nautical phrase 
hazard 46 Performed 18 Ivan, for a coup 
one 48 Ranges 19 Ripeners 51 Area 20 Greek 52 Draw out 
theat.er 55 Levying 22 WWI song 59 Covered 24 Chaos with grass 26 Akimbo item 63 Less irra· 27 Dill herb tional 29 Mohammedan 64 Billiard 
decrees shot 
\X'ednesday's Solution 

65 Second in 25 Latin command, pronoun familiarly 28 Musketeers 
67 Wildly unit enthusias· 30 Stag or tic sasin 
68 Former 31 Otherwise Turkish 32 Did in coin 33 Elevator 
69 Sea bird man 70 Burden 34 Expansive 71 Spanish 35 Within: 
kings comb. form 72 River in 36 Letter Belgium holder: abbr. 73 Headland 37 Egyptian seaport 
DOWN 41 Fox or dog 1 Tycoon 42 Lab burners 2-·France 45 Superintend 3 Cut 47 Geometrical 4 Pointed figure 5 Olla 49 Lawn 6-·ran trimmers 7 Exit 50 Big -,Cal. 8 Mushroom 53 Bird group 9 Part of a 54 Pitchers 
dynamo 56 Silly 10 Road 57 Sweetened 11 Toward the wine drink 
sheltered 58 Lawn side ingredient 12 Actress 59 Bradley Deborah 60 Flower 13 Gaelic holder 
language 61 Spot 21 ShaWl 62 Hawaiian 23 Baseball bird 
stat. 66-diem 

Campus . 
•10 
a.m. -2 p.m. -lnfonnation Booth, HOSPICE, Lt"Mans Lobby, Saint Mary's Collq,:t' 

•4 
p.m. -Seminar, "The Infrared Spn:trum of H3", Protessor Takeshi Oka, University ofChicago, Radiation Lab Confrence Theatre 

• 
S p.m. -Mass, Feast of S1. Thomas Aquinas, Fr. Bt'rnard .\1ullahy, C.S.C., homilist, Morrissey Hall Chapel 

•6:30 
p.m. -Meeting, AIESEC general mt'eting, LaFortune Little Theatre 

•7. 
9, I I p.m. -Film, "True Contessions", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Social Con­cerns and Student Union, All are wdcome Admis­

sion St " 


•7 
p.m. Meeting, Student Playt'rs Organizational Meeting, "Cabafl·t", this season's production, LaFortune Little Theatre, All en­couraged to attend 

•7:30 
p.m. -Basketball, Notrt' Dame Women vs. Ball State, ACC 

•7::\0 
p.m. -Film, "Excuse me, America", LaFortune Ballroom, Sponsored by Social Con­cans and Student Union, No admission 

•H 
p.m. -.Lecture, "Some Problems in the Theory of Liberal Democratic Capitalism", Profes· sor Sam Bowles, LJniveristy of Massachusetts, Am· herst. 356 Fitzpatrick Hall, Sponsored by the Department of Economics 

•9:30 
p.m. -Film, "Hiroshima", LaFortune Ball­room. Sponsored by Social Concerns and Student Union, No Admission 


T.V. Tonight 
7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 
9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10:00p.m. 
10:30 p.m. 
11:00 p.m. 
11:30 p.m. 
12:00a.m. 
12:30 a.m. 
1:40a.m. 

16 MASH 22 CBS Nt'WS 28 Joka's Wild 34 Tht' Mac.:Nt'ii/Lt'hra Report 46 Rev. David Paul 16 Allin The Family 
22 Family Ft'ud 28 Tic Tac Doul(h 34 Strai!(ht Talk 46 W. V. Grant 16 Fame 22 Magnum, P.l. 28 .\lurk and Mind)' 34 Sneak Prt·vit'ws 46 Lt·stn Sumrall Tt·adling 28 Best of the Wt·st 34 This Old lloust· 46 Pattern l'or l.lving 16 Dift'rent Stroke' 22 Knots Landing 28 Banll'y Miller 34 Austin City Limits 46 Today with Lester Sumrall 16 Girnrne A Break 28 Taxi 16 Hill S!n:et Blues 22 Nurse 28 20/lO 34 .\Iichigan Outdoors 46 jat·k Van lmpt· 34 Kirk: American Furniture 46 Faith l'or Today 16 :-.oewsCentcr I 6 22 22 Eyt·witm·ss Nt·w' 28 :'olewswatch 2H 
34 Tht· Dkk Cavett Show 46/ Praise The Lord 16 Tonight Show 22 (,)uiney/The Saint 28 ABC Nil(htline 34 Captioned ABC "Jews 28 Vegas 46 Lester Sumrall Teachin~ot 16 Tomorrow CoaM To Coast 28 Yt·gas 46 Sharing 
•28 Late Night Newsbrid 

.. 


zte at~Im~~®rn 
ination you cant beat. 
JACK DANIELS personally invites you to meet him at Main, Bud, & Mich. Bars in Senior Bar. He'll be rved with an OLD STYLE 
at another super price. 
Friday Nite? ... 
fine wine coolers & spritzers 

-· 
~­

Thursday,)anuary 28, 1982-page 12
Snorts 


24 for Paxson 

Irish bomb Black Bears 
By SKIP DESJARDIN I've seen from a Maine team in thrc:e Chappelle obviously was pkasnl Sports Editor years," Chappelle said, admitting when asked to comment on Pax­that his players were somewhat in son's performance after the game. It was one coach's dream, am>th­awe of Notre Dame. "We've been "I love that kid whenever I sec er's nightmare. shaky in the past couple of games. him play," the Maine coach said. "It 
Notre Dame proved once and for but at least in those we came to play is just a joy to watch him. He's a lcg­all that it is truly out of the slump at least a half timate All-American candidate." that plagued the team through I98 I "We were not in tonight's game Mike Mitchell and Bill Varner also and the early part of 1982 by from the beginning." took opportunities given to them, as overwhelming the Maine Black john Paxson was, however. they each came up with 14 points. Bears, 79-55. The junior again proved that he's Mitchell also contributed five as­
"I felt that the team played with a among the nation's best, as he sists, to tie Paxson for game-high in lot of maturity," Phelps said aftn it scored a career-high 24 points. that department. was all over. "I was glad to see thun "Pax was great taking control ear­"We made all the right adjust­handle this game in the manner they ly in the game," said Phelps. "He is ments," said Phelps. "I thought the did after beating :\1aryland and such an unselfish player, as wc:'ve first few minutes of the second half Idaho. There was obviously no kt­seen in the past few games, but when were criticaL We came out, played down." he's uncovered, he'll take what's with intensity despite our 14-point 
For Maine coach Skip Chappelle. givt'n him. lead, and put the game away. there was only frustration. "That's just what he did tonight. "Now we obviously have to get "We have taken on a little too He reads things so welL He just took ready for :\1arquette. Ifwe beat :\tar­much," Chappelle said of the mur­the opportunities where they gave 
See MAINE, page 10
derous schedule that includes them to him, and went to the hoop." DePaul, Alabama, :\1arquette and Vil­
lanova. "It is time to re-evaluate. We 
upgraded our schedule for recruit­
ing purposes, but it's time we became more realistic." 

VVornenseekrevenge
It seemed the Bears could do no­thing right. Their top offensive force. 6-10 sophomore Jeff Cross. 

against Ball State 
got into early foul trouble, hamper­ing his effectiveness. He managed to By MARK HANNUKSELA Shelley Silk, Ball Stare's scoring
overcome that, however, and ended up with 2 3 points -one short ofhis 

Sports Writer leader. Sophomort' guard Jane career high. 
Emkes took up the slack, however, 
"Jeff plays up for the big games." If there's a catch word for scoring a season-high 20 points. 
said Chappelle. "He scored 21 tonight's women's basketball clash Both Emkcs and Silk are back, and against DePauL The kid can pia\· between Notre Dame and Ball State, along with Karen Bauer. they 
Irish forward Bill Varner shoots with anyone, but he nec:ds more ex­it's revenge. average more than 60 percent ofthe 
over Maine's jeffSturgeon(42) for perience." Revenge for the embarassmcnt Cardinals' offensive output. 
fll'o ofhis :4 points in last night's lnc:xpcrience was a problem for that came with last February's 79-61 The 6-0 Bauer Jeads Coach
Billy 

•' 79-55 victory. (Photo by Rachel the entire Maine squad, which thrashing at the hands of the Car­Debbie Powers' club in both scoring Blount) featured five first-year players. dinals in Muncie, Ind. and rebounding, averaging 16 points 
"This is the poorest pcrformann· Revenge for the disappointment and I I rebounds per game. that came with the seven-point loss Silk, Ball State's tallest player at 6­in the rematch between the same 1, is averaging I 5 ppg and almost two schools in the opening round of nine rpg., while Emkcs averages 12 the Indiana AlA W state tournament ppg. nearly a month later. As a team, the Cardinals score 69 
Revenge for the mental pain and points per -game, and give up 82.
Ofspikes and spikers 
suffering Irish Coach Mary DiStanis­"We haven't given up 69 points all 
lao went through in the interlude year," says DiStanislao, "but we'll 
between the two games, when have to work hard on defense to 
.\1EN'S VOLLEYBALL -The Notre Dame men's vol­
Notre Dame suffcrt'd its longest keep them from matching their leyball team will open its season this Saturday morning losing streak ever (seven games). average. On offense. I think we in the ACC Ficldhous<: at 9:45. Six t<:ams will participate "We tried to come back in that might be able to exploit some of in the ali-day tournament, h<:aded by the University of first game," DiStanislao says before their defensive weaknesses if we're Michigan. Th<: Wolv<:rincs tlnished second overall last yesterday's practice session, "but we patient and establish the tempo. year in th<: 30-team .\1idw<:st Intercollegiate Volleyball didn't quite make it. (The Irish cut a "I think our kids realize that they Association. 26-point dcf<:cit to just 10 with four don't hav<: any laurels to rest on," 
Other t<:ams that will comp<:te besides Notre Dame minutes r<:maining, but could come she added. "Every day, you've gotta indud<: Bowling Gr<:cn. C<:ntral .'vlichigan, Calvin Col­After the meet, student-coach john Amato was ques­no closer.) In the second game, we go out on the tloor and prove your­kgc and<)akland Colkge of Michigan. The playoffs start tioned by the other track coaches if the Notre Dame played very, very well, but we just sd[ I also think. ou r players arc at 4:00p.m. after <:ach t<:am has comp<:tcd against each squad really hadonly club status. didn't h~ve enough horsepower to looking to kct·p their winning skein other. From thcrt:. th<: top two sc:edcd t<:ams from th<: It is from those comments that the women's track do it." alive. That should be incentive morning will nc:t:d only two wim; to capturt: the team club can continue as a top-tlight program in years to Never fear. The horsepower has enough for us." titk whik the other four will ncnl thret: triumphs. come. The indoor season opens t(Jr the women at an arrivt~d-
Despite tlnishing in a first-place tk last yt'ar in its Invitational this Sunday at Purdue:. W'hcn asked whcthc:r Paccd by three freshmen who oc­IRISH !TE.\1S -According to seven-team division, and tlfth overall in the league, club the club can continut· improving as a r<:spectt·d cupy the top three spots in both statistics to be released today by the prcsidt'nt Barry Smith forsecs a year of rebuilding. "We program, club prc:sident and top sprinter Lisa :\1onti scoring and rebounding, Notre NCAA, DiSLanislao's club ranks in lost a lot ofgood players from last y<:ar." explains Smith. rc:sponds with a rt'sounding "dctlnitdy." Dame is a drastically different team the top IS in fivt: "I'm not sure how good the r<:st of the leagut· is right "Already we have had more pcopk showing up to than th<: one the Cardinals faced a catagorit:s ...:'llotr<: Damt: is first 
now. but I think that once we get to practice more we our practices," says Monti. "Plus the year of<:xpcriencc year ago. among Division I schools in scoring can develop into a pretty competitive team." that a lot ofus had last year will do us a Jot ofgood. Also By the same token, Ball State is not defense (the stat most pkasing to 
Fifteen members are on the current roster, but the our distance runners had a fine fall season and have the same club that beat the Irish Irish coaches). giving up 48 points same principle holds for the team's regular season been training hard <:ven before Christmas break." twice in the I980-81 season. per game. The Irish are also third in practices as for those in the pre-season -anyone who The key events will be the ones in the field since once While Irish fortunes have grown field goal percentage defense ( 36 wants to practice with the team may. Practices are held again most of the women on the squad arc inex­brighter, .Cardinal fortunes have percent), ninth in rebounding mar­in the ACC Tuesday at 8:00p.m. and Thursday at 10:00 perienced in those events. Howc:ver, :\1onti is pleased wilted. At best a mediocre club a gin ( 9. 7 ), I Oth in tlcld goal percent­
p.m. john Klebba, Mark Stewart, Scott Erbs, Kevin Hin­with the fact that there arc more sprinters on the tc:am season ago, Ball State hasn't quite age (.498) and 12th in scoring ders, Clark Gibson, and Smith are expected to be the this year. Top returnees on the club this year include reached that level of success in margin ( 17.3) _ . .In addition to stalwarts for the squad. junior two-mile runner .\1ary O'Connor (who tlnishcd I9H 1-82. looking for their eighth straight win, WOMEN'S TRACK -Quality, not quantity, is the I Oth out of60 runners in last fall's Southwestern Michi­The Cardinals enter tonight's 7:30 the Irish also will be looking to win
.. word for the women's track club. "Great" is a word that gan College's three-mile run), sophomore Rosemary contest in the ACC with a four-game their fifth straight in the friendly may soon follow in year's to come. Desloge (who finished first in the aforementioned W es­losing streak, and a 1-8 record over­confines of the ACC. 
Comprised mostly of freshmen and sophomores last  tern :\1ichigan Invitational last year) in the mile, while  all. They have lost a pair of games to  
year, the squad nevertheless managed to hold its own in  sophomore Rose Marie Luking also is cxp<:cted to help  future  Irish  opponents  :\1iami  
invitational meets last spring. There weren't any first  out in the distance events.  (Ohio) ( 85-77) and  Illinois ( I I 3­ 
place finishes by the team in any meets, but the perfor­ :\1ary DiStanislao is not the only person to be bksscd  61 ), and they are coming off a 23­ 
mance at the 16-tcam Western Michigan Invitational  with outstanding frc:shman women athletes this year. At  point loss to lnd t iana's Hoosiers  
last year epitomized why the word "quality" is used to  least tlvc freshmen  arc expected to make significant  Tuesday night.  
describe the team.  contributions this year and in years to come. They are  The Irish, meanwhile, sport an l l­ 
.\1eg Conlan in the 440-yard run. Leslie Heineman in the  3 slate which includes as many con­ 
The squad finished  sixth in the meet despite taking  300-yard sprint, Mary Kennedy in the 880-yard  run  secutive wins as last season's losing  
only nine people on the trip (whereas other teams had  (along with sophomore Debbie Long). Carrie Rowe: in  streak. A win tonight would set an  
more then 20 ). The Irish performed against established  the on<:-mile and Nalini Rajamannan in the two-mile.  all-time Irish record for most con­ 
varsity programs, but weren't able to compete in the  This indoor season should be an extensive training  sc:cutive wins. eight.  
field events since nobody on the squad had any field  program for the outdoor season (which begins .\!larch  In the tlrst meeting between the  
cxperiehce. They also used two of the members on the  27). but it will be a very competitive training program.  two schools last year, Notre Dame  
squad in events they had never ran before that meet.  concludes .\1onti.  did an eftt-ctivc job ofshutting down  

INSIDE 
SMCHoops­pg.lO Colleges­pg.B 




