Murder trial-page 3 


VOL. XVI, NO. 97 an mdependem student newspaper serving notre dame and sa.im mary's TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1982 
Canadian oil rig 
sinks,crewmissing 
ST. JOHN'S, Newfoundland (AP)­Spindler said the Ranger was the The giant oil rig Ocean Rangt·r sank biggest and toughest oil drilling plat­in a raging storm 200 miles offshore form afloat. No figure was im­yt·stenlay, and all ~H workers were mediately available for its value, hut feart·d lost in 40-foot seas. They had Lloyd's Shipping Register of Col­been ordered earlkr to take to chester, England. said the sinking lifeboats. was the largest loss in oil rig history. 
The multimillion-dollar Ranger, Snow whipped by 80 mph winds des<:rihed as the biggest oil rig in the battered the Ranger overnight Sun­world, went to the bottom of the day. Mobil reported the rig was lis­Grand Banks of Newfoundland a few ting at I'5 degrees and that the: men hours after dawn, according to the had been ordered to abandon it. rig mana1-1er, Mobil Oil Canada Ltd. Communications went out soon af­
Tht· rig went down nine hours af­ter. ter the crew was ordt·rt·d ol'fthe bad­When search planes reached the ly listing rig and into covered area at first light they said the rig was lifeboats, :\tohil said. still upright, although tilting 10 to 
It wa.~ not known how many ofthe I '5 degrees. nwn made it into the boats, but the But within a short time there was crews ofrt·scut· planes anti ships said no sign of the rig, said the rescuers, they saw bodies tloating in the area. who were: operating in poor ;\/o rescues had been reported by visibility. All that could he seen was late afternoon. some of the gear used to anchor the 
concerning the experience of religious stories
Asked if there: wa.~ any hope that six-year-old Ocean Ranger in place. 
(photo by Cheryl Ertelt). 
some: might still he: alive:, a Mobil Mobil spokesman Ed Bonnell said spokesman said "there was no in­the rig might have capsized before dkation ofany survivors." sinking, but "that's only a hypot­
Asean·h and rescue spokesman in hesis." 
ND-SMC Theatre
llalilax, Nova Scotia, said the type of Spindler said the rig was especial­life: raft used by the rig was designed ly designed to withstand the rigors so survivors could live for several of winter in the North Atlantic. "It 
Support for Braun alters plans
hours even if their raft was upside. underwent much worse -just this down in the water. The rig reported­winter it underwent worse," said ly carrit'd survival suits said to help Spindler. By MIKE LEPRE Department as the director of this have been out of Poland and here kt·ep a wearer alive for about an Last week the Ocean Ranger was News Staff spring's Shakespearian comedy. today." As a result of this turn of hour. reported to have listed severely However, as a result of the declara­events faculty members of the 
Aspokesman for the rig owners -when too much ballast was pumped Due to the restrictions of martial tion of martial law in Poland, Braun Theatre Department decided to ocean Drilling and Exploration Drill­into one of its legs. An unidentified law in Poland prohibiting. Polish has not been permitted to leave his defer the scheduled Shakespearian ing Co. of New Orleans, La. -said crewman was quoted in television director Kazimicrz Braun from country. production. that of the 84 people on the rig, I 0 news reports last week as saying an lc:aving his homeland, the Notre ND-SMC Theatre Publicity Direc­The altered plans include the 
Americans and 2'5 Canadians were order to abandon ship was given Dame-Saint Mary's Theatre has can­tor Mary Francell explains, "In production ofeither a Polish play, or. employees ofthe owners. during the incident. celled its planned production of a January the Polish Consulate said perhaps a combination of one-act Company public relations officer Mobil confirmed that a general Shakespearian comedy, in favor of a that they would confirm Braun's ar­presentations. According to Fran­AI Spindler said the remainder ofthe alarm had been sounded when the Polish protest program. rival, but apparently they were cell, the Department would "prefer crew were service hands employed rig listed but that the problem was Braun, a highly regarded profes­misled, or they misled us." The last to find a Polish written play," and un­by sub-contracting firms. Most sor from the University ofWroclaw, communication between the der serious consideration is the would he Newfoundlanders. See RIG, page 4 had planned to join the Theatre Theatre group and Braun himself production of one of a number of was through a postcard that he sent plays written by Slawomir Mrozek, a while inJapan during late November Polish playwrite and Solidarity sym­
C'ookbookfor poor 
of 1981. pathizer. In that postcard, Braun wrote "I The aim of the newly instituted hope to sec you in the United States program is "to show that we: in the in January of 82," however, follow­Notre Dame-Saint Mary's com­


Reagan cuts publications 
ing Braun's return to Poland, com­munity have good faith in the Polish munications between the parties citizens." said Anne Pattt•rson, a
By TIM AHERN being printed. 
were lost. member of the Theatre group. Pat-
Associaletl Press Judith Morton of the GPO says the agency's current 
According to Francell, "had mar­inventory is about 20,000 titlc:s, including newsletters. 
tial law not occurred, Braun would See BRAUN, page 4Many publications arc technical and have only limited 
WASHINGTON ( AP)-No longer will employees in appeal. About 80 percent of the GPO's customers are the Bureau of Land Management office in Cheyenne, state and local governments and companies that do Wyo.. sec their pictures in a staff yearbook. Nor will the business with the federal government. 



Student Senate reviews
Agriculturt• Ikpartmcnt publish a recipe book for poor The four most popular publications among the public pcopk that tt:lls how to stuff hard-boiled eggs with deal with child care. The best seller is "Infant Care," a crabmeat. Health and Human Services Department booklet that 
For that mattt·r. you won't he able to sucribc to sells f(>r S2.2'5 per copy. 
budget reallocation 
Dimensions, thc magazine: published by the National Other popular titles arc: the: three-volume "Backyard Bureau ofStandards. to learn what's new in the govcrn­:\tcchanic," priced at 513. 50; the "Dictionary of Oc­BILLKOLB sion drew cnuctsm from several mt·nt's cft(>rts to mea.o;ure and weigh. The magazine: cupation Titles," at 513.'50 a copy, and the Public NEWS STAFF members of the Senate. 
docsn't exist anymore. Health Service's"Medicine at Sea" at S 17. "If Student Government, the Stu­The GPO also operates 27 bookstores around the 
Aproposed constitutional amend­dent Union or the HPC mismanage ment giving the Student Senate the money within their divisions, real­casualties of power to reallocate Student Activity location is necessary," commented
pu~::cationsth:~~ TUESDAYii/I-Itll' 
country, most in federal office buildings, and wants to 
close all but four to save an estimated S 1.2 billion. A 
congressional committee moved last week to keep funds met opposition last night at Student Union Director Bill Lawler. ~::~::~t cam-IY{f@{i\)J!j[f=0 CUS them open, at least until auditors can determine if they the Student Senate meeting. A deci­"But it's not fair for one division to paign to cut the arc losing or making money. sion on the proposal was tabled until take another's allocation." 
budget. When The GPO loses money on most ofits publications be­next week. Concerned about divisions Reagan took office in January 1981, one of his first ac­cause of over-printing and because they often sell for Drawn up by a Senate ad hoc com­staying within their budgets, Mike tions wa.o; to havc the Office of Management and Budget about two-thirds what a commercial publishing house mittee set up to study budgeting Martin, HPC Chairman, com­order a halt to all new government films and publica­would charge. Hoping to change: that, the GPO has procedures, the: proposed amend­mented,"Thc safety valve of real­tions, and a survey ofexisting publications to see which hired a marketing director to find ways to make more ment would establish a standing location turns original allocation might bc abandoned as unnecessary. money. committee on the Budget. into a farce." The deadline for finishing the survey is March 31, but Reagan's austerity campaign notwithstanding, the Composed of students drawn from Keenan Hall Presidenl Paul Cal­the budget office concedes that because of the paper­government is one of the world's busiest publishers. Student Government, the Student lahan disagreed. "The budget com­work involved, that date won't be met. The Commerce Department alone produces an es­Union and the Hall President's mittee is for the students. There With the onslaught of Reagan's initial budget cuts, timated I,000 publications. So does the Dcpanmcnt of Council, the committee would shouldn't be inaccessible pockets of many government agencies responded in part by Health and Human Services. The figure is 1,200 for the review budget requests and make money to help certain groups. Real­producing fewer newsletters and magazines. Interior Department. At the Pentagon, the total is still recommendations to the Senate by location gives us the opportunity to Figures from Uncle Sam's printer, the Government being added up. May I. Prior to Feb. 1, the commit­help benefit all ofthe students." Printing Office, prove that fewer publications are being tee would formally review the churned out. But no one seems to know exactly what is See PUBLICATIONS, page 3 budget a second time. This provi-See SENATE, page 5 

.-------·--~------------~------~ ~------~---­

I ~ 
I 
~ 
By The Obsen1er and The Associated Press 
"Avery dismal sh ow'" in which conflicts are wor· sened rather than resolved is how U.S. Ambassador Jeane J. Kirkpatrick described the United Nations yesterday in Washington. She told 225 leaders of the American Legion yesterday that some 
U.N. 
agencies, including its refugee commission, the World Health Organization and its meteorological service, do "very positive things which we would all be happy to contribute to." But she added, "Ifwe look at what happens in New York out in the Security Council and in the General Assembly, then I guess I believe it is a very dismal show. And what is worse, its effect, I think, is almost precisely the opposite ofthe intentions ofthe founders of the United Nations ...above all to assist in conflict resolution." "What we find instead is that conflicts, rather than being resolved there are in fact polarized, extended and exacerbated. They are much harder to solve rather than easier to solve, generally speaking," she said. The Reagan Administration's 

U.N. 
ambassador made the criticisms in response to a question from a Legion member who asked if it was "worth 55 million a day for our one vote against the world." -AP 


AFL-CIO President Lane Kirkland yester­
day assailed the Reagan administration's budget as "an intolerable tradeoff' ofsocial programs for the Defense Department and called for an income surtax to pay for any Pentagon increases. Emerging from a two hour meeting with the AFL-CIO executive council in Florida, Kirkland said administration officials were being unrealistic in voicing hope for an economic turnaround this year. "I think that's whistling through the graveyard," Kirkland told a news conference at the concH's midwinter meeting here. Kirkland accused President Reagan ofsacrificing a host ofsocial programs in a-time ofrecession so the administration can increase Pentagon spending by 533 billion in the next fiscal year. -AP 
InCape Canaverala large "crawler" has been readied to roll out the space shuttle Columbia to its launch pad at the Ken­nedy Space Center today, officials said yesterday. The three mile move will take about eight hours, space center spokesman Mark Hess said. He said the crawler is a six million-pound vehide that "moves on big tracks like a big steam shovel" to haul the shuttle at less than one mph to the launch pad, where the Columbia will be poised to begin its third space voyage March 22. The four million­pound shuttle has been housed in the Vehicle Assembly Building, and the journey to the pad will start there at 5 a.m. As soon as the Columbia is rested on the platform, Hess said, technicians will begin hooking it to the pad and securing propellant, electrical, gas and communications lines. -AP 
Two brothers were ordered held without bond yester­day in Chicago in the slayings of two police officers who were gunned down after stopping a car on a traffic violation. William Fahey, 34, and Richard O'Brien, 33, were killed Feb. 9. Andrew Wil­son, 29, and his brother, Jackie, 21, were arrested Sunday in separate apartments on murder warrants, authorities said. Police said Andrew Wilson told them he accidentally shot Fahey with the officer's gun during a struggle over a jacket as Fahey was reaching for his revolver. Wilson told police he then shot O'Brien in self-defense when the patrolman approached him with his pistol drawn, authorities said. ­
AP 

A newspaper article in Newport, R.I., identified a prostitute as a potential witness in Claus C. von Bulow's attempted murder trial and apparently provoked a judge to ask jurors yesterday whether they were reading about the case. Superior Court Judge Thomas H. Needham later blasted reporters who tried to find out what was said in the private meeting with jurors and lawyers ­which took up much of the morning. "Your number could be seriously curtailed if there is another repitition of the group as a whole trying to find out," the judge warned. Assistant defense attor­ney John Sheehan said after the conference that the defense would not file a motion for a mistrial, suggesting jurors had not seen the story in question. Von Bulow, 55, is accused of twice trying to mur­der his wife, Martha "Sunny" von Bulow, with insulin injections during Christmas visits to their Millionaires Row mansion in 1979 and 1980. -AP 
Dreary and mild with rain or drizzle developing late today, continuing tonight and ending tomorrow. Tomorrow's high in the upper 30s to low 40s and a low tomorrow night in the low to mid 30s. Chance ofrain 40 percent today and 80 percent tonight. ­
AP 


Founded November 3, 1966 

An officer lands on a car after be was thrown from his horse when mounted policemen charged rock throwing steel workers last Thursday in Brussels. The demonstrators were reportedly demanding more financial aid for the ailing Cockerill-Sambre steel mill. About 16 policemen were injured in the inci­dent.(AP Photo) 
An unidentified prelate kisses the ring of the Popejohn Paull/ last Friday morning at Rome's Leonardo da Vinci Airport as the pontiff began his eight-day trip to eastern Africa. At left is Vatican Secretary of State Agostino Cardinal Casaroli who is ac­companying the pope in Africa.(APPhoto) 

Design Editor................. Suzanne La Croix Design Assistants ................... Kay Holland Mike Quill Typesetters .......................... Stephen Brown Steve Burg News Editor..................... Cathy Domanico Copy Editors .......................... Valerie Evans 
Kathy Murray Sports Copy Editor .................. Pete Manzo Typist .................................... john McCarthy ND Day Editor................. Karen MeMahon SMC Day Editor .................julia Trimarchi Ad Design ....................................john & Co. Photographer ......................... Cheryl Ertel! Guest Appearances. The jerk, a Touch of EviL Broken-Hearted Southerner 
Good First Paper SUZANNE the staff 

Federal Reserve Board Cbainnan Paul Volcker appears before the Senate Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs Committee last Thursday to air the FED's monetary policies. Some economists blame the board's tight monetary policyfor the present high interest rates.(AP Photo) 


AP Photo File 

r----]UNIOR LEAGUE ---i 
I PRESENTS.· -I 
I I


!YAnn Landers ! 
1 Feb.18 8:00pm 1 I Morris Civic Auditorium I ISingle ticket $10. Main floor and first balconJ. ·1Special student rate $5. Second and third I
I balcony · 1 1 Specialstudent tickets available at the door II the evening ofthe performance. 1 
--------------------------~ 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Cbief............................. .john McGrath 

Executive News Editor........................ Kdli Flint Sports Editor.............................. Skip De!jardin 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report­ed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, i5 encouraged. 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
News Editor.............................David Rickabaugh Photo Editor........................................john Macor-SMC Executive Editor........... Mary Agnes Carey !_ditorials F.dttor ......................,Anthonywalton ~MC News Editor......................Cathy Domanico Features Editor.........................Gregory Swiercz 
Department Managers 

Business Manager .........................Rich Coppola Production Manager...................Michael Monk 
Controller............................................ .joe Mulflur Circulation Manager .............Tom MacLennan 
Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owen Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley 



The Observer T;uesday, February 16, 1982 -page 3 
Illness interrupts Atlanta n1urder trial 

ATLANTA (AP)-Wayne B. Wil­deaths in an effort to show a pattern liams' murder trial was cut short yes­that might fit the Cater and Payne terday when a minor intestinal virus slayings. forced him to leave the counroom a Carla Bailey, a business associate 
second time, just as his uncle took of Williams, testified that Williams the stand as a defense witness. called homosexuals "twinkles" and 
Earlier, two defense witnesses had "wished not to be in their presence." testified that Williams disliked homosexuals and referred to them Faith Swift, a friend of Bailey, said by a derogatory term. Prosecutors Williams enjoyed flining with claim Williams is a homosexual and women and "just didn't like" that his sexual prderence played a homosexuals. part in the deaths of the two young Defense lawyers have been chip­black men he is accused of killing. ping away at prosecvtors' conten­
Doctors at Grady ,\kmorial tion that Williams is a homosexual. Hospital had treated the 23-year-old They called Williams' girlfriend to 
Williams for his illness during a the stand last week to say she had lunch break yesterday, and he had sexual relations with him. returned to the courtroom for the af­The defense opened the eighth 
ternoon session. week ofthe trial yesterday by calling 
He left again about 3:30p.m., and Bailey, Swift and other character by Cheryl Ertelt). Superior Coun Judge Clarence witnesses for Williams. Cooper recessed the trial for the day Bailey also contradicted a 
when it became apparent that Wil­prosecution witness who claimed to liams could not return. Cheryl Tyler, have seen Williams with one of the 
Pledge to Israelis 
a court spokeswoman, said the 28 slaying victims. Williams has defendant was taken back to the denied knowing any ofthe victims. county jail. Kent Hindsman testified last 


Begin protests missile sale to Jordan 
The incident interrupted the tes­month that Williams gave him a ride timony of Williams' uncle, Ralph home from a recording studio in JERUSALEM (AP)-Prime Minis­fhe Foreign Ministry said the ger said such a deal would help Barnhart of Columbus, who had just December 1980 and that Bailey and ter Menachem Begin declared yes­issue would be brought up im­balanceJordan against its pro-Soviet taken the stand. 15-year-old Joseph "Jo Jo" Bell, the terday that President Reagan would mediately by Israel's new ambas­neighbor Syria and also keep the 
Williams, a black free-lance 24th victim on the task force list, break a pledge to maintain Israel's sador to Washington, Moshe Arens. Soviet Union from selling more arms photographer and aspiring talent were in the car. military advantage if he lets Jordan He presents his credentials to Presi­to Jordan. promoter, has pleaded innocent to Bailey said yesterday the teenager buy U.S. anti-aircraft missiles and F-dent Reagan today. If the Reagan Administration goes charges of murdering Nathaniel in the car with them was named 16 warplanes. Jordan's King Hussein has not offi­ahead with the sale, Israel appears Cater, 27, and Jimmy Ray Payne, 21, David Stevens. Israel's 120-member parliament, cially requested specific American ready for a confrontation on the two of 28 young blacks whose Under cross-examination, the Knesset, passed a bi-partisan arms nor have any been publicly of­scale of its bitter but losing fight deaths over a 22-month period have however, Bailey admitted she told resolution yesterday expressing fered. against last year's sale of advanced been investigated by a special police law enforcement agents before Wil­"deep concern" over the possible But Begin's government has radar planes to Saudi Arabia. task force. liams was arrested last June that she sale and asking President Reagan and moved swiftly to state its sharp ob­"We must not postpone even for a 
No arrests have been made in the had never been with Williams when Congress "to refrain from a danger jections after reports that Defense single day the registering of our other 26 cases, but prosecutors have he was transponing any ofthe young so grave to Israel's security." The Secretary Caspar Weinberger position in the face of this grave presented evidence in 10 additional singers who auditioned for him. vote was 88-3 with six abstentions. proposed selling Hawk mobile anti­threat to the security ofour people," aircraft missiles and F-16 fighter jets Begin told the Knesset. He spoke toJordan last week during his visit to from a wheelchair, which he uses Amman. while recovering from a broken hip 
Officials accompanying Weinber-joint he suffered in November.

• • • Publications 

continuedfrom page I 
Still, Rc:agan claims to have made some: progress. In his State of the Union address last month, he said his l'll<>rt to reduce federal regulation had resulted in nearly 23,000 fewer pagt·s in the Federal Register, the daily puhlication of federal rq~ula­tions and notices. 

Morton reported that in the: tiscal year which ended Oct. I. the GPO usc:d 103.7 million pound~ of paper, nt·arly 6 million pound~ ft:wer than in the previous 1.2 months. She predicted a similar decrease this year. 
Dimensions magazine was only one of an unknown numher of publications to die as a rc:sult of lka~~:an's hudget cuts last year. OMB olt1cials l·annot say how many have been ahandoned, hecause the sur­vey is still under way. 
) The OMB followed its own directive by printing fewer copies of R~gan's new fiscal 1983 budget, a'nd distributing ft:wer frt:e copies (0 members of Congress and the media. 

The OMH prinited 33,963 copies of tht· budget this year, compared with 64.889 copies last year, and it gave away 16,963 copies comparc:d with 41,899 last year. To save money, the: OMB omiued the usual leather bindings for the two dozen volumes of the budget given to l'On­gressional leaders. 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Fnda y and on horne football Saturdays except dur1ng exarn and vacat1on penods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Darne and Sa1nt Marys Col· lege Subscnpllons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnling The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame Indiana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Preaa All reproduCtiOn nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 

The overall savings so far have The Commerce Department 
been considerable, said OMB saved S325,000 by combining 13 in­spokeswoman Robin Rayborn. In fis­ternal magazines into one publica­cal I 1-82, S103.7 million was saved tion and another 550,000 by using a hy eliminating publications, includ­lower grade of paper for its ing S6,000 for the Bureau of Land magazine, Business America, said 
Management yearbook in Cheyenne Richard Valentine, a department and S33,000 for the Agriculture spokesman. 
Department recipe book. 



Advancement. 
WITIIOUT 
AN ADVANCED DEGREE 
The 
Institute 
for 
Paralegal
Tralnfng 
235 S. 17thSt 
Philadelphia. PA 1~ (215)732 
Approvedby the 
Amertaln Bar Assodatton 
Opcraled by Para-Lcpllne. a PeMS)'IVIlnla Corporation 

College seniors. If you plan to get ajo~ after graduation. why not consider a profession? 
• 
In 3 months. we prepare you for careers in Jaw, management finance 

• 
Our8intensivecourses are nationally recognized for high aca­demic quality. 

• 
~r 90% of ourgraduates secure jobs in their specialties. ~r 5,000 graduates hold positions in Jaw firms. banks and corporations in 110 cities. 

• 
We provide a substantial tUition refund if we cannot secure a job for you In the dtyofyour choice 


Guaranteeyour future. Learn how the Institute can help you advance in a career. Our representativewill be on 
campus March 2. AC-0035 
o JwouldlUcetoarrangeantnterotew ·atarwtherttme Please call me at oneofthephones rwted. 
o Please send me informatiOn about theInstituteforParalegal n-atnlng. 
Name ----------­
Address ---------­City. State. Ztp -----­
College--------­
~--~---~-L-----­
Present phone Pennanentphone 
:
•
• 
:
•
•
•
: 
:
• 

~11-:
•
•


!til :
•
•
•

~WGi8JI4lr : 
at The Huddle •••••• •• •••• •• 
• 
•
• 

2Tacosfor 1.39 2 Burritos for 2.25 
Only at the Huddle • 
The Observer Tuesday, February 16, 1982-page 4 


With the warm temperatures of the laSt Jew days, the melting snow has madefor slushy shoveling (photo by Cheryl Ertelt) 


Shoppers charge discount store 
COHOES, N.Y. (AP) -Battalions of sale-crazed shoppers laid siege to a discount store in this aging textile­mill city yesterday, engaging other bargain hunters in hand-to-hand combat after the doors opened for a Washington's Birthday sale. 
"It's total chaos. There's women fighting with each other, women grabbing the same handbags and bel­ting each other," said Police Sgt. Jim Young, who was standing duty at Cohoes Specialty Stores Ltd. 
The excitement was stirred by leather blouson jackets by Kenar for $79 ("nationally advertised at 5290"), Capraro dresses for S23 (down from 5238), and $11 Halston metallic handbags, once Sl 50· $1 70, among other sale items. 
Hundreds of women and a few 
men, looking out of place, began to 
queue up in the cold before dawn.. 
By the end of the day bargain hun­
ters were expected to have doubled 
the population of this city of 19,000 
north of Albany where the Hudson 
and Mohawk rivers meet. 
Young said five off-duty officers 
were hired to back up the store's regular security force in patrolling the mammoth sale. 
Cohoes, which sells namebrand and designer clothes for men and women, normally offers a wide range of goods at prices 2Q percent to 30 percent lower than traditional retail, according to Ben Ames, the store's vice chairman. 
But prices really plummet on Washington's Birthday. 
Darlene Levy, 21, of Lake Grove on Long Island, spent the weekend at a former college roommate's house in nearby Waterford so she could get in line at 5:30a.m. 
Last year, Levy said, she got a 5660 three-piece Oscar de Ia Renta suit for S29, and in the process "I T got knocked down. But I'm back for more." 
Profits in the modern, 50,000 square foot, two-level store in the downtown shopping area are based on "volume and watching our ex­pense structure. That's one of the reasons we're not in a high-priced mall," said Sanford Zimmerman, the store's chairman. 
"Making it worth our while does 


AIRCRAFT DIVISION Aircraft research, ELECTRONICS DIVISION Navigation and ELECTRO-MECHANICAL DIVISION ·Ad· DEFENSE SYSTEMS DIVISION Strategic design, development, and manufacturing. Guidance Systems, Digital Computers and vanced electronic/electro-optical sensor and tactical electronic countermea_sures Information Processing Systems. systems. systems. 

At Northrop, people and their ideas make Our representative would like to discuss your advanced technology work. interests and how they may lead to a career with Northrop.
It works because we match people's interests 
with our needs in project teams, where indivi­Contact your Placement Office to arrange your dual responsibility and development potential interview, or write to:are greatest. 
If your professional interest is listed below, we Mr. Edward Martinez 
would like to discuss the different career paths College Relations 
available at Northrop. Northrop Corporation ! e AERONAUTICAL ENGINEERING 1800 Century Park East, Los Angeles, CA 90067 
e ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING 
Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/H 

• 
MANUFACTURING ENGINEERING U.S. Citizenship Required e MECHANICAL ENGINEERING 

•INDUSTRIAL 
ENGINEERING e PHYSICS e BUSINESS e COMPUTER SCIENCE 


NORTHROP 

e MATHEMATICS e MATERIALS SCIENCE People making advanced technology work. 
not mean making a profit," added Margery Lapp, coordinaor for advertising and promotion. "Clearing out is important in this business too. You don't want all that old merchandise lying around." 
"Washington's Birthday...the only way I can describe it is...madness," said Lapp. "People line their arms with Etienne Aigner purses and then sit on the floor and start bartering." 
The lines were so long by the time the store opened last year that some customers couldn't get in until noon. 
By early afternoon yesterday, Lapp said it was "elhow-to-elbow" on the sales floor, with a good-crowd still waiting outside. 
. .. Braun 
continuedfrom page 1 
terson asserts that although their Polish protest "will not be saying anything new," the group has " t finally been touched through the situation surrounding Braun." 
"Very oft t en people are so far removed from what's going on in other parts of the world," said Pat­terson, "that they fail to realize the difficulties and hardships facing citizens in other countries." In addi· tion to a Polish production, the Theatre Department is also hoping to attract a number of speakers to the campus in an effort to familiarize the NI)-SMC students with the cur­rent situation in Poland. 

While another foreign director is being sought for. the new produc­tion, the Theatre students are losing a certain degree of valuable ex­perience. "As students ofthe Depart­ment we are losing the opportunity ofnot only working with a great art­ist," said Patterson, ''but we are mis· 
sing out on the experience that 
producing a Shakespeare play ob­
viously provides." 

Although most of the ND-SMC Theatre members wanted to do the Shakespeare presentation, the stu­dents are behind the Polish 
program. 
Francell feels that the main con­
cern of the group at this point in 

time is to come up with "some sort 
of production to involve all the stu­
dents," and is assured that "once the 
Polish program gets started people 
will really begin to get excited about 
it." 

While unusual circumstances 
have caused the Shakespearian com· 
edy to be cancelled for this year, the 
presentation is to be rescheduled for 
production s0me time next year. 
. . .Rig 
continuedfrom page 1 

not as serious as reported and the incident was over in five or 10 minutes. 
Spindler said the Ocean Ranger had been drilling off Newfoundland for about 10 years and in the present location since last November. 
Mobil said there was no pos­sibility of what it desribed as a blowout of the well, known as )·24, which the Ocean Ranger had been drilling. 
The self-propelled Ocean Ranger has a rectangular platform measur­ing approximately 400 feet by 260 feet by 135 feet, can drill in waters as deep as 1,500 feet and can drill to a depth of25,000 feet. 
The world's worst oil rig disaster occurred March 27, 1980, 200 miles off Norway. The Alexander Kielland rig capsized, taking 123 people to their deaths in the North Sea. 
The Observer Tuesday, February 16, 1982 -page 5 
Heavy security 
Police protect Pope,jailfour 
IBADAN, ;\ligeria ( AP) · A slightly 
sunburned Pope John Paul II was 
rinl(ed by heavy security yesterday 
as he cdebrated :-.tass in the Moslem 
city of lbadan. Thc Nigcrian prcss 
said four pcoplc wcrc jailcd for 
carrying guns at t:arlicr stops by thc 
pontiff. 
Papal Spokcsman Romeo Pan­
cirolli said church otlkials wcrc un­,awarc of tht.· arrests, and the Lagos policc commissioner said hc had no knowlt:dgc of one of the incidents 
rcported by the govcrnmcnt· 
controllcd ncws agency. 
lbadan wa.~ thc midway point of John Paul's cight-day African tour, his tirst trip ovcrscas sincc hc was shot in St. Pctcr's Square last May 13. A turk, Mehmet Ali Agca, has been convicted of the assault. 
Helmeted Nigcrian soldiers sur­
rrounded john Paul's limousine, and 
whcn the popc tried to slide opcn 
the sunroof to wave, a guard 
slammed it shut. Police also seized 
several Polish flags held by well­
wishers to check them for weapons 
or bombs. 
The government-controlled Nigerian News Agency reported yes­terday from Lagos that police detained a man with a loaded pistol and six rounds of ammunition on Friday as he tried to force his way into the 100,000-seat National Stadium where the pope celebrated Mass. It was not clear whether the man was charged. 
But Lagos Police Commissioner 
AI-Hagi Mohammed Nasarawa told 
The Associated Press he had no 
knowledge of the incident. 
The News Agency of Nigeria also 
said two men and a woman were 
seized at the Kaduna airport after the 
popc left there Sunday. The agency 
said a taxi driver reported seeing a 
loaded pistol in a bag they were 
carrying and that all three were 
charged yesterday in a magistrate's 
continuedfrom page I 
In othcr business, Student Body Prcsidcnt Don Murday reported that thc Senate's Committee to Study Stu­dcnt Ufc at Notrc Dame has invited an indcpcndcnt team of psycholo­gists to examine Notrc Dame's social life. The team will be on campus Feb. N-2H. 
Rcsponding to a recent cditorial court with illegal possession of tirearms. The three were identified as a student nurse, a pharmacist and a "trader," all from Lagos. 
Handguns and street crimes have become common in Nigeria's larger cities in recent years. The posses­sion of a handgun without a police permit is illegal but thc law gcneral­ly is ignorcd. 
The 61-ycar-old pope, looking a bit tired, told a friendly crowd of more than 100,000 at lbadan Uni­versity not to exploit black Africa's poverty for political reasons and to never lose sight of religious convic­tion. 
He was cheered as he celebrated Mass on the athletic fields ofthe uni­versity, 95 miles north of Lagos. 
The crowd included professors in gowns and mortar boards, papal knights with tricorne hats and stu­dents in t blue jeans. They were joined by members of Nigeria's Christian and Protestant com­munities, as well as academics from neighboring Benin, Togo and Cameroon. 
"The cultural underdevelopment ofsome ... must not be used as a tool for partisan, ideological, economic or social aims," the pope said in his homily. 
"The cynical exploitation of human misery and ignorance for aims that have nothing to do with human dignity and the elevation of man and of society is a great crime against the work of the Creator," he said. 
The pro-chancellor of Ibadan uni­versity, Dr. Christopher G. Okojie, said he hoped the papal visit would promote the attainment of human equality by "just and holy means." 
The popt: was presented with a bronze bust of himself and a native picture of the Last Supper super­imposed on a silver Nigerian map. 
The pope dined last night with 
...Senate 
in The Observer that charged Stu· dent Government with having a "roll over and die" attitude on the keg issue, Murday com­mcnted,"We've got to work within the system. You don't get things done by throwing a letter in The Ob­
server and saying 'Fr. Van is out of touch and should be tossed out.' I don't think we arc a passive group, but if we don't work within the sys­tem, we can't get anything done." 

Achieve 
your goals with us 
Prudential is the largest multi-lines insurance com· pany in America: and one of the largest financial institutions in the world. But that doesn't mean that we're only looking for business majors. There are plenty of opportunities for those in the sciences and liberal arts. 
You see. our diversity and size enables us to offer careers in so many different fields that there's always something that will interest you. With us you can grow while doing what you want to do. And if you should later decide that you'd like to explore another career path. you can make your career change within our company and get paid for the additional education or train­ing needed to make that transition. There's no loss of accumulated benefits. no worries between jobs. nothing to hold you back from making or changing your personal career goals. 
So. if you're looking for a career. but are uncertain as to which career path to take, why not check out Prudential and achieve your goals with us. 
We'll be on campus Tuesday, March 9th 
See the placement office to sign up for an interview, or send your resume to: 
~PmdentJal 
~ 
5800 Canoga Avenue. Woodland Hills, CA 91367 An Equal Oppor1un1ty dnd Affmnanve ArMn Employer 
Nigeria's  .32  bishops.  During  the  
meeting,  he  responded  to  allega­ 
tions  by  some  Moslems  and  ex­ 

ponents of native beliefs that the church had introduced European ideas into Africa in an effort to sub­jugate blacks. 
"The church comes to bring Christ," he declared. "She does not come to bring the culture ofanother race." 
The pope's live-day VISit to Nigeria concludes tod<I)'. Tomorrow he flies to neighboring Benin, for· merly the French colony of Dahomey. He then travels to Gabon and Equatorial Guinea before returning Friday to the Vatican. 
Nigeria is Africa's most populous nation with 90 million people. Of these, 30 million arc Moslem, 18 million Christian and 5 million to 6 million Roman Catholic. The remainder pursue different forms of ancestor worship and animism, the beliefin spirits and demons. 


Many students went to get their mail yesterday, only to find signs, like this one posted in Carrol Hall, reminding them that it was a national holiday and the post office was not operating as usual (photo by Cheryl Erte/t). 
Salivficimpact 

Shea tells religious stories 
By CINDY COLDIRON 
News Staff 
Last night speaking to a capacity crowd at Saint Mary's Carroll Hall on "The Way Religious Stories Work", Father John Shea, director of the mmtstry program for the Archdiocese of Chicago, remarked that "experiencing the self in relationship to the mystery ofa story was as important as the story con­tributing to one's religious ex­perience." 
He said that "stories could function religiously in three ways. The first way is that they can widen your consciousness, pull you into the depth ofevery day and open you up to the mystery of everyday life. When a story functions religiously it brings to the heart a mystery of life and opens up a wider horizon." 
Shea continued saying, "religious stories have to fill you with feeling and perception. It has got to engulf you and make you feel your exis­tance...it has to give you a sense that what you found in the story is saliv­fic. It has to intersect in your life and the relationship to that mystery has to be sensed as salivfic." 
Referring to the story of the miraculous catch offish byjesus and St. Peter, Shea said that "when a story has religious impact, you are forced into this salivfic question of what will you do with a gift that is freely given? Will you usc it over and against your brothers and sisters or give it away to benefit all like Peter did? 
"In order for a story to have saliv­fic impact, it has to stay with you. You have to meditate on it and usc its' images and metaphors. When you grow up in the religiou~ tradi­


Planning a spring break fli~g in Florida? Then ma.ke plans to live ~ up inside the Walt Dtsney World Magtc Kingdom! There, you'll find more than 40 exciting attractions ... and, we're in easy reach of the surf and sand of your favorite Florida beaches! 
This spring is an especially good time to "break down" to Disney, during Tencennial-the Walt Disney World 10th birthday celebration ... highlighted by the sensational Tencennial Parade, and all-new musical extravaganzas. 
So, give yourseff a break ... a spring break to remember -Inside the Magic Kingdom of Walt Disney World! 
$13-ADMISSION AND UNLIMITED USE OF ALL ATIRACTIONS (Except Shootln' Gallery) 
SPECIAL EXTENDED SPRING HOURS March 7-12: 9 a.m.-9 p.m. March 13-April 1: 9 a.m.-10 p.m. 
Waltli)ISneyWorld. 
--------·

~-----------~----~---­
The Observer Tuesday, February 16, 1982 -page 6 
·.­
The present beat wave is not the only sign that ofhis species return to South Bend to set up their spring is coming soon as this cardinal and others territories (photo by Cheryl Ertelt). 
Six injured 
Freighterburnsoutof control 


~[Ri~ to help you consider the priesthood in the Congregation of Holy Cross 
[))~[f~ Friday, February 26 to Saturday, February 27 
7:00 p.m. 1 2 : 00 p.m. ~~Moreau Seminary 

by calling the Vocation Office 
no-cost 
239-6385 

KALAMA, Wash. (AP)-A flaming 600-foot freighter filled with wheat was beached yesterday on the Columbia River while doctors treated six people injured in the spectacular fire that burned out of control. 
Fire broke out aboard the freighter Protector Alpha as it took on fuel oil Sunday night at the Kalama terminal, about 30 miles north ofthe port of Portland, Ore. 
An early-morning explosion aboard the stricken ship injured two 
Coast  Guard  firefighters  and  a  
Seattle  firemen,  while  three  
freighter  crewmen  were  

hospitalized suffering smoke inhala­tion. Two of the firefighters were in critical condition. 
"The fire is sfill burning," said Coast Guard Chief Guy· Scull. Firefighters were trying to confine it, but were letting the sections al­ready on fire burn themselves out, he said. 
"There's a lot offuel on board and there's grain on board. If the graiin goes, it could burn a couple of weeks. That's an estimation." 
The freighter, longer than two football fields and holding 28,000 tons of wheat, was towed upriver from the Kalama grain terminal and beached out of the way of other ships. 
Flames inside the ship were visible from shore and thick black smoke could be seen by motorists along Interstate 5 across the river. The fire fed on fuel oil, not wheat, said Scull. 

•t982 Fall Semester -MEXICO •
' 
Universidad Iberoamericana 


Information Night 
Tues. -Feb. 16 -7 pm Social Concerns Alcove La Fort. 
c =' 
The 30 Filipino crewmen and two Greek agents aboard were ordered to abandon ship. 
The fire probably started when bunker fuel spilled into a generator room beneath the fuel tanks, said Dan Baxter, chief of Rural Fire Dis­trict 2. The generators apparently ignited the fuel, said Baxter. 
Large quantities of high-expansion foam needed to fight the fire had to be sent from Portland, Seattle and other locations, and firefighters meanwhile could do little to extinguish the blaze. 
Some 25 to 30 firefighters were stranded aboard the blazing ship for about half an hour after it was set adrift because of fears the adjacent grain elevator would catch fire. 

Ford-United Auto Workersfinally agree 
DETROIT (AP) -The United Auto Workers union has not "ruled out" the possibility ofresuming con: tract concession talks with General Motors Corp., Union President Douglas A. Fraser said yesterday. 
"But I think the chances of that occurring are certainly a lot less than 50-50," Fraser said on the CBS­TV "Morning" program. 
Late Saturday, the UAW reached agreement with Ford Motor Co. on a 31-month contract expected to save Ford hundreds of millions of dollars with a freeze in wages and cost-of­living allowances and elimination of eight paid personal holidays. 
Negotiations on possible conces­sions at Ford and GM began amid the longest industry slump in a half­century. Talks at GM collapsed Jan. 28 and bargaining with the No. 1 automaker is not planned again until regularly scheduled talks this sum­
mer. 
Fraser and auto industry analyst 
Arvid Jouppi of the brokerage firm 
Colin, Hochstin Co. estimated the 
cost savings from the concessions at 
as much as $1 billion over the term 
of the contract, but Ford officials 
have not said whether that would 
lead to lower car pri1 ces. 
Auto industry analysts said GM 
probably will try to persuade the 
UAW to resume concession negotia­
tions. 
"We've said repeatedly that we'd 
like to resume talks with the UAW at 
any time," GM spokesman Bruce 
T MacDonald said. 
Fraser has said he would not ask 
the UAW's GM council to reopen the 
GM talks and that any decision on 
the matter would have to come from 
the union council. 
If Ford workers ratify the con­
tract, it will be the first time in more 
.than four deades of bargaining be­
tween the UAW and the industry 
that there have been rhree different 
wage and benefit scales at the big 
three automakers. 

Ihe Obsener_ 

Needs SM C Reporters Write ' 'Focus' ' stories and make $. 
Call Cathy if interested 277-2244 The SMC OBSERVER office is open from 
1 : 30-3 : 30 M-Th and Sundays 

~ 
for classified ads. 

GM and Ford say their labor costs are more than $20 an hour, but analysts estimate the Ford agree­ment would lower that figure by 52 or S3. Three rounds of concessions by workcrs_ at Chrysler Corp. that ended early ·last year already have lowered labor costs there by more than S3 an hour. 
The contract at GM expires Sept. 14, the same day the current con­tract at Ford would have expired had bargainers not negotiated an emergency contract in its place. 
The union opened talks at GM and Ford onJan. 11, and the next day the No. 1 automaker announced that any savings from union concessions would be passed on to consumers. The talks at GM collapsed because of widespread opposition from UAW workers to making any sacrifices. 
The union's rank and file at Ford 

will vote on ratification of the new 
tentative agreement if the union's 
225-member Ford council approves 
the pact tomorrow in Chicago. The 
rank-and-file vote was expected to 
take about two weeks. 
Judge says mistrialfor official 
MOUNT VERNON, Ill. (AP) -A mLtrial was deJared yesterday in the trial ofa former University ofIllinois administrator accused of stealing $608,000 for lavish nightclub sprees and female companions. 
Judge Harold Jensen of Cham­paign County Circuit Court declared the mistrial in the case of Robert Parker after the jury said it could not reach a verdict. The panel deliberated seven hours. 
Jensen set a retrial date of March 

8. The prosecutor said he would decide within a week whether to prosecute again. 
Parker, 60, was charged with t,ransferring the money from the University ofIllinois Foundation to a dormant bank account of UD Corp., a subsidiary of the foundation. Parker was an officer in both or­ganizations and vice president for finance at the university. 
Four women testified during the trial that they had received more than 5400,000 from Parker for com­panionship that sometimes included sex. 
Parker's attorney, Arthur Lerner of Champaign, had told the jury of six women and six men that they should find his client innocent by reason of insanity. He said Parker, who is married, was a "perfect gentleman for 25 years," trusted and beloved by his co-workers and su­periors. 
"Somewhere there was a change -a complete change in this man," Lerner said. "I don't know why." 
Two psychiatrists testified for the defense Friday that Parker is suffer­ing from paranoia. 
"A mental disease is like a window 

into hell -it is something you can't 
control," Lerner told the jury. 
But a psychiatrist for the prosecu­
tion testified he found no evidence 

of any major psychiatric disorder 
when he examined Parker. 
"He's not paranoid, he's not suffer­

ing from paranoia; he's a thief," said 
Thomas Difanis, Champaign County 
prosecutor. 

Psychiatrists and other witnesses testified that Parker told them he felt abused and unappreciated by his su­perior, Ronald Brady, the univer­sity's executive vice president. The two defense psychiatrists traced Parker's problem to these feelings. 


~~()1"tS=f~l~r~i=e~~~~S~==~~======================Tu=e=sd=a=y,=F=eb*~u=a=ry=I=6=,I=9=sz===p=ag=e=7
By The Obserller and The Associated Press 

Seton· Hall and Michigan game basketball tickets are 11Vailz!Mo.it the second.iloorticket 0IIice io the ACC. The Seton Hall game will be held on Thursday, February 18 at the Meadowlands Arena In East Rutherford, N.J. Tickets for the Michigan game, to be held at the Silverdome in Pontiac, Mich., on Sunday, March 7, are priced at S4, S6 and 58. -Tbe Observer 
Ski tripsto Swiss Valley every Saturday night during the win­ter months. are being sponsored by the Student Union. Busses depart from the Main Circle at 5 p.m. and return at II p.m. Bus tickets can be purchased in advance from the Student Union for S2.50, or on the bus itself for $3.00. Also, discounted lift tickets and ski rental arc available -The Obseroer 
The scenery is great, the exercise is good for you, and cross-country skiing is fun. It's also easy to learn. The office of Non-Varsity Athletics is sponsoring a learn-to-ski weekend for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. For details, call 239-5100. .:... The Observer 
Cheerleadertryoutsare coming up quickly. A man­datory meeting ofall those interested in becoming a member of the Notre Dame Cheerleading Squad will be held in the LaFortune little lbeater on Wednesday, Feb. 17 at 7 p.m. Requirements, practice schedules, and other information will be discussed at this time. 
The Observer 
Softball practice has begun for the Notre· name women's team. 'I!hisweek's practices wtH be tomorrow, Wedoesday and Thursday at 9:30p.m. in the ACC Fieldhouse. New members are welcome. For more information, contact Karen at 7401. -Tbe Ob­
server 
The Student Managers Organization 
needs freshman participation. Interested freshmen should contacat the Manager's office this week between 2-6 p.m. at 239-6482.-Tbe Obseroer 
In lnterhall Hockey tonight, Off-Campus Crime will confront Cavanaugh at I 0:15, with Stanford and Zahm facing off in the late game at 11:30. -Tbe Obseroer 
Indiana's Ted Kitchel has been named Big Ten Player of the Week for his spectacular performances in victories over lllinois and Iowa. Kitchel scored 34 points against lllinois and 33 against Iowa. He hit on 27 of 39 shots from the field and 13 of 16 free throws. Kitchel also snared 1 5 rebounds and had four assists. It was the second time the 6-8 forward from Galveston, Ind., has won the award this season. -AssociatedPress 
The Notre Dame Rowing Club will hold a team meeting to pass out raffle tickets tonight at 8 p.m. upstairs in LaFortune. All members who plan to go on the spring trip are asked to attend. -Tbe Obseroer 

Sports­Board 
MEN'S BB PLAYOFF TEAMS DlvlalonA 

Big Tan Howard (7-0) Holy Cross (6-1) 
PecTen Grace (6-1) 
Sor~n(6-1) 
ACC Stanford (7-0) Ftanner (5-2) 
Dtvlalon B 

SEC Ftanner (7-1) Dltton(7·1) 
Big Sky Grace (7-1) Keenan (7·1) 
ECAC Ftanner (8·0) Dillon (7-1) 
WOMEN'SBB 

Raaulta of Feb. 14 Lew1s 140, Pasq. West21 0-C over Lyons t (by lorfe1t) Farley 122, Badm 21 Pasq. East 34, Lew1s 1116 B-P 17, Lyons 116 Farley 1129, Walsh 22 
See BOARD, page 8 

The Observer wtll accept classtfieds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. However. classifieds to appear in the next tssue must be recetved by 3 p.m. the bustness day pnor to insertton. All classtlteds must be prepatd, 
either in person or through the matl. 
Classifieds 
HELP'
. But Seroousty Folks... tt seems that my t NEED RIDE TO INDIANAPOLIS . TO MY RENAISSANCE MAN. HAPPY VALENTINES DAY. LL.Y 

attempts 10 locale my stltt-m1ss1ng VUAA­LEAVE 2119 ANYTIME; RTRN 2/21 4 STUDENT OR GA DEPAUL TIX
NOTICES 
NETS have att been m va1n However, I'm CALL BILL at 7269 PERSONALS NEE DEDI CALL JODI (SMC)4697 not one to get off the bus" easily, to be 
MA X The candy was dandy the roses sweet. To meet you would be qu11e a n1ce

sure. Possibly my reward offers have not HEY ALL YOU IRISH MARAUDING been taken ser1ousty tt you have any In­Need AIDE to Madison. Ws. Feb. 26·28 HOSERSI Tott booth, Chinese f1re dr1tt,
treat KF ' OVERSEAS JOBS--Summer/year Dear Roomtes, 
formation regarding the whereabouts ol Witt Share usuaL Karen 7991 Quarters at the Hottoway's (doesn t Zelo
round. Europe. S. Amer.. Australia. As1a. Thanks for the fun weekend 1n gtoroous 
SMC CLASS OF '641ake Atll1etds. $500-$1200 monthly Sightsee­South Bend Can't say 11 was a torgetabte
these elusiVe sunglasses, do your self a ever m1ss?), Jelto the JOhn, SGT T'SJOkes. 
THE TICKET TO AIDE vole yes

favor and gel 1n touch w1th Ken Kesey at Need nde to/from Mad1son. WI area for Ae1tty ts eattng agam. No Satisfaction. do
Ing. Free Info. Write IJC, Box 52-tN4, expenence Next ttme. Julie. lam gotng
283-3210. HE TAKES HIS 'NAYS weekend ol2119-2/21 Share expenses at DRAKE.AtSTHORPE.JENNtNGS. you have a comb?, M 1903 A3. column
Corona Del Mar. CA 92625 8837 to br~ng drugs to keep you awake. Googs. MULLIGAN tor
SERIOUSLY P.S.-tt you see any hatf-teh (r~ghl?). you hosehead, 11:30,
who d1d you hke steeping w1th better? (Be 

JUNIOR CLASS OFFICERS DID YOU CALL THE AIRLINES FOR truthful) Ames, don't even try lethng me 
marshmattow sporttng them, apprehend walk on. CPT C's massage, shavmg 
the character immediately and contact I need a r~de to West Lafayette (Purdue) cream 1n the ear. downtown Ph1tly, the
YOUR SPRING BREAK AESERVA· that you never dnnk anymore... you By the 11me t get to Phoemx 
me. Reward Stitt negot1abte on Friday the 19th. CattEd at 1582. tardy triO, smg 11 A1co. statue abuse. 15
TIONS? PICK UP YOUR TICKET AT 1ST managed to tor four ntghts m a row. 
m1nute cocktails so. th1s tnp was a beauty, 
SOURCE TRAVEL. SAINT MAAY'S--Thanks agatn tor putttng up w1th my mess Pnncess· Thanx for a great weekend! I
LOST: My nders to MARDI GRAS IN GOING EAST 2119-21? Need a rode to eh? TAKE OFFI
5606 ND--7080 and my tale mghts. Googs---1 had to get
Ex111 Ohio 'pike catt: Steve at 1816 should say someth1ng romantic but you you at least once. Be back 1n May. 63. xxx 
NEW ORLEANSII t have to f1nd 2 more or can use your 1mag1nat1on·-I think we are

1'11 be stuck w1th NO's pseudo vers1on of Now t know why they catt h1m the stud ol 
the real th1ng. Catt Harpe at 8928. Need ride to Washington, D.C for spr1ng realty gonna make 11 Hey Jen. you realty 301 D1tton t ·LIZ bk. catt Faa1z at 8695 turn me on! Att my love. your Oxford Man. 
NEED A GOOD HAIRCUT? CALL 
LOST: Green plaid scarf. Last seen han­SUMMER PROGRAMS: Ireland, Scot­JC Jeff and Jeremy. 
NtCHOLE AT 7951 $4 GUYS AND $6 
gtng on the wtre fence in front of Badm Need A1de/R1ders to Pittsburgh weekend land, London and Parl•May 1lhlune Have a good l1me tomghl, youGIRLS 17 Parle, Germany, Switzerland and
Halt around 5:30p.m. tt you happened to of 19-20. Please catt Kevm at 1139. awesome studs 
Rome-June 15-July 14. Couraea Ken.
pick it up, pt~ase catt Karen KosleckyLooking lor a truly ponabte. yet powerful. 

6162. Need ride to Ch1cagol (Western suburbs available In hlatory, bualneaa and I MISS YOU! 

personal computer? See THE os­
of) Feb. 19-21. Wttt share expenses. economics, sociology, theatre, MIKE Kerry.
BORNE 1, 64K, dual 1OOK disk droves, 
Lost: Please catt Juhe at4624 SMC, anylime! phlloaophy and Italian. Call ProNaaor Hope we meet agam somet1me soon.
complete sohware package. $1795. Patty.
A. R. Black Ill SMC, 284-4948 or Ill FOURWAY COMPUTER PRODUCTS 11 was great havmg you back. Come out 
Taua lnatrumenta 51-55 calculator in Your old employee's took-ahke. 
the eng1neer1ng aud1toroum during last t need a r~de to Oxford. Ohio (M1am1 U) home, 272-3726. 
l l

(Across from North Vittage Matt). 277-aga1n soon. We can steal food, have more
semester's l1nats. My name 1s scratched Feb. 19-21 Please help II you are headed

7720 bunk1e talks" d1scuss someone s s1mul·
that way. Witt share usual. CattJoe x6839 Look1ng for a truly portable, yet powerful personal computer? See Tha Oaborne 1, 

1n on the back. Please return. John at8641 Baby Huey and other Crowe·s Nest
taneous pa1ns. rearrange the room. dnnk Need drive lor 1979 ptckup (automatiC) to Carlo. and catch up on goss1p Maybe Ill 
Aetreaters Thanks for the weekend of 64K, dual 1OOK disk drives, plus $1400 
m1dmghl Scares, Dawn s squatty body.
Stamford, CT area. Witt pay $50 plus gas even stay here tor the weekend, 1f I don I
Found. A theology book on south quad on worth of sohware. att for $1795 FOUR­Dave & Marks eggs. cutthroat charades,
tt Interested, catt Mrs. ~alters. 259-8015. get a better offer 
WAY COMPUTER PRODUCTS. (Across 

2114. Yuck y tnends, reverenced mutts.
Love. Momcafrom North V1ttage Matt). 277-7720. 

Vvvvvv. storm1n Norman Jack NIC·DILLON HOCKEY!! DILLON HOCKEY!! 
FOR SALE 

holaus Gorman. Heaven·s tear. Lann· COME AND DISCUSS DIVORCE AND 
Lann the Garbage Man & bases.
The TIDE IS rottm· 1n this Friday The SPOOCH & SHARK.
THE CATHOUC WEDNESDAY, FEB 17

Found. a theology book on south quad on Mtnnesota Fats, a htlte tess chatter and a
Punks witt be there W1tt you? Who IS your FTD man? 
AT 6:30 PM IN THE SAINT MARY'S

2/14. Catt Tom at 3176 aher 10 pm to hnle more work," cyn1cal sen1ors. Father 
COLLEGE CLUBHOUSE. 

1denl1fy. Save money on used books at PAN­Jack's Incense, caas. f'IUI'S, and moH"
SPEEDY TAPE REPAIRS-You break 

DOAAS 3&. off the hst price. For a hm1led eaaa. Wekomc back lo CathoUc Dl•
em: we remake em. F~st.courteous 

FOUND: Pa1r ol Contact tens near ma1n 11me we are hav1ng a 1982 calendar sate-­ATTENTION SMC neylandl
serv1ce Tapes restored to almost m1ntVOTE

c1rcte. Catt Ted at 1187. S&. off!! Th1s Fr~day from 3-6 pm used LOYC1
condition Remember· when 11 comes toKATHLEEN "MURPH" MURPHY '84

books are S&o off and new books are 2&. 3 "cyplcal" SMC Chlcb
LOST/FOUND SBP 
tapes, Speedy stops. 7B PE. Ask for the off. Open 11-6 weekdays and 10-5 B.J. fans.
BETH TIGHE '83 VPAAweekends. PANDORAS BOOKS. 937 ELAINE HOCTER '84 VPSA

South Bend Avenue. 233-2342. DearM.
INFORMATION NIGHT: Fait SemesterFOR YOUR STUDENT BODY Happy Vatenlmes Day (better tate than

LOST: GOLD & PEARL FLOWER Program at Umvers1dad lberoamencana
FOR RENT 
OFACERS never) ThiS past Friday was even more

CHARM FROM A NECKLACE. Lost be· 1n Mex1co City--sponsored by Center lor
THURS. FEB. 18 exc111ng than the prev1ous one. I'm took1ng 

tween Farley and the Law SchooL tt Expenentlat Learnmg TONIGHT SO-toward to the next onefound, please catt Phyths--6844. CIAL CONCERNS ALCOVE 
REWARD Mate -witt share 3 bedrm home 1n mce LAFORTUNE -7 PM 
For Sate:Kaptan MCAT books & notes netghborhood 150 per month. ph 289­

TICKETS Matt 
and some other MCAT sluff Catt Pal at 

LOST 1 PR. XL DARK BLUE SKI 1908 or 272-4109 To the SMC Class of 1985 For an ex­
287-2405. CHEAPI DUM-DA·DUM-DAOAOUM·DA-DUM

GLOVES ll'j EG AUD MONDAY NIGHT penenced team Vole lor: 
.. '...·~·' .........'.' ... '. Yeaaaaa BEAVER! I' she realty open 24
Pl.fASI'oCALL'SEAN 14111 Available. lpr nal(t school year and Cara Hageman 
.•· 
Help mternattoriat relations Hosers from NEED RIDERS TO MARDI GRASII Call hours a day?
summer-two f1ve bedroom houses. 234-Marc1a Bomch 
the G.N W need four tickets for DePaul Harpo 111 8928. 2626. 
Helen Lucanhs catt 7936 HEY GOODY! GIVE UGLY LITTLEMary Ann Potter 

Lost Btue enamel cto1sonne bracelet Today IS CHRIS COHN'S 21 sl B-day, 
RICHARD HIS SNAKE BACK I t Witt g1ve ANYTHING lor 1 or 2 GA·s to
Weds mornmg 1n the Lib. Aud /Lobby now he· s old enough to go on 
area. Deep sentimental value It found, DEPAUL Please catt Alex at 6931. salar1 Happy Hunt1ng CONNOR! (Circle one) please catt Kath1 at 1327 
Marg1. 
SteveThe shotgtasses are ready and the
WANTED 
t NEED TWO TICKETS FOR THE bottle stands wa1t1ng Catt us lushes. butLOST IN 109 O'SHAG. BLUE BOOK­NEED A RIDE TO AND FROM GAINES­

THE PUNKZ WALK THE SANDZ THIS SACK WITH ALL MY NOTES & BOOKS. VILLE, FLA FOR SPRING BREAK CAN
DEPAUL GAME!!! WILL PAY BIG the least we can do on your 21st b1nhday FRIDAY See Ya ThereBUCKS. CALL MATT AT 232-25 78. 1s pound ourselves 1n1o the tloor 1n your

PLEASE WHOEVER PICKED IT UP. LEAVE WED, 10TH. WILL SHARE GET IN TOUCH WITH STEVE 
honor.
USUAL CALL MARYEVA AT 2909. 

1OWe re not talk in FLORIDA BeachesHappy Birthday.
BURKART TEL 3121 Need two r~des to WILL PAY MEGA BUCKS FOR SIX (6) We're not tatk1n· CAUFORNIA BeachesMaryanne and Bob 
LONG ISLAND CITY DEPAUL GAS FOR BIOLOGY TEAC­DILLON B1g Red Hockey . AWESOME! We re not even latktn· GEORGIA 
LOST BROWN TWEED WOOL SCARF lor spr1ng break Catt Ray at 3596 HER ARRIVING THE 27TH CALL Thurs. the Hogs are ted to slaughter Beaches we·re tatkm PUNK Beaches at NO-MAINE game Jan 27 1n sect1on TERESA AT 41-4469 108 of the bleachers tt found please catt JT--Happy 5th Valentines Day. You stilt 
TO ANDY THE MYSTERY MAN FROM Who s that tovety wench lrom 4B?

ST. ED'5-THANX FOR THE CARNA·

Ross at 1898 Need r~de to Houston Texas, for sprong I would g1ve an ARM AND A LEG for have my beat1ng heart. We ve got to go on break tt you are headed in that d~reclion DEPAUL GA'S Catt Alex at6931. meelmg like this! Next miSSIOn: FLORIDA 
TION ON V-DAY... IF YOU THOUGHT Congratulations M1ke Monk the newYOU WERE SURPRISED TO HEAR

LOST IN 109 O'SHAG ON 2/10 A BLUE please catt T1mo at 1782. --10 Editor tn Ch1el We knew you could do 11ABOUT MY EXISTENCE, IMAGINE MY 
BOOKBAG WITH ALL MY NOTES AND Desperately need 2 to 4 G A. t1x to DE 319SURPRISE AT HEARING ABOUT
BOOKSIII!t PLEASE. IF YOU PICKED IT TYPING 28 years as a secretary Exeat­PAUL game. Catt Peter at 8456. See ANN BOURJAILY perform LIVE 
UP, CONTACT STEVE BURKART tent typ1st--ret~red $1 00 per page. Catt AND IN CONCERT this Sunday at 3 p.m. 
YOURSI... Grac1ousty yours, the generic Ann Marie Here IS the personal that youc1garette lady ..

TELEPHONE 3121 ASAP THANKS Phyths 259·2501 Need up to 5 DePaul G.A tickets. Catt 1n Moreau Hall's L1n1e Theatre at Sa1nt always wanted. It 1sn't much but what d1d 
John al1391 Mary's. Don't mtss th1s talented and you expect on such short not1ce. 1'11 make FOUND-one key on key chatn outs1de AUSTIN. TEXAS area IS where t need a beaulifut woman's performancetlll 
H1MAC! 

1t.(p t~you some ~r 11me John gateSoiAC.C onFeb 10th ride to tor break most w1thng to share ex­I Need 2 or 3 GAS FOR DE PAUL PLS 
Sm1te. You have to be nuts to be coot 
penses & dr1v1ng. Catt 1791 CALL JIM X8771 5 555 

CHRISTOPHER J.L. COHN Two r~ders need a t1H to Lost Navy blue su11 coal Whoever wore a (AKA WORLD B 21") HAPPY B-day 
Jeremy, 

LONG ISLAND CITY blue su1t to the P W SYR on Sat Feb 6 RIDE NEEDED TO HOUSTON TEX-FOR I NEED TWO DEPAUL GA TICKETS from WORLD B FRO . , WORLD LONG ISLAND CITY check to make sure you brought home the SPRING BREAK---WILL SHARE USUAL PLEASE CALL TIM ANY AFTERNOON B.BLU . WORLD B SLICK , COL 
Juhe'or Ann ? 

LONG ISLAND CITY r~ght navy blue su11 coat Catt 3242 CALLCHAISAT 1678ANYTIME xxx AT 1377 LOGAN 
(Cirtce one) Can leave by noon on Fr~day Catt Ray atSteve 3596 



---~~-----.~ ___.......,_ ._.~--.--------------­

~---------­
-------------------------------·------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION's 
ANNVAL 

SPRING BREAKIN DAYTONABEACH 
The Observer 
The Notre Dame tennis team Ohio State Buckeyes Sunday, 6-3. Notre Dame led early on, but OSU, led by Big Ten Indoor Champion ErnieFernandez, proved too muchfor theyoung and improvingIrish. See EdKonrady's story on back page (photo byjohn Macor). 
MANDATORY MEETING for allreporters tonight at 6: 30 in 
The Observer office. Bethere, aloha! 
3rd round TKO 
Sugar 
RENO, Nev. (AP) -Sugar Ray Leonard battered Bruce Finch to the canvas three times and stopped him in the third round Monday night to retain the undisputed welterweight boxing championship of the world. 
Leonard completely dominated 
this mountain gambling resort's first 
title fight in 72 years. The bout was 
billed as "Reno's Got It," but Reno 
had it for less than nine minutes as 
Leonard completely outclassed 
Finch. 
Leonard, who weighed 146, one 
pound under the class limit, had 
said, "In the first round, I'm going 
straight for him." But the champion 
opened cautiously, circling while 
Finch, 145, stalked him. 
Finch was doing well in the 
second round as Leonard continued 
to seem tentative. Then, Leonard ex­
ploded, and Finch didn't have a shot. 
About midway in the second 
round, Finch pinned Leonard in a 
neutral corner and landed several 
punches to the head and body while 
missing many others. Suddenly, 
Leonard pounded three savage 
hooks to the body and a crisp right 
to the jaw that sent Finch staggering 
across the ring. Leonard leaped to 
the attack and landed a fusillade of 
head punches, climaxed by a right 
that dropped Finch. 
Finch struggled up at the count of 
eight and went down a short while 
later from another flurry to the head. 
Again he struggled up and managed 
to last out the round, although he 
reeled about the ring like a drunk. 
Then, in the third round, Finch 
seemed to be boxing well when 
Leonard suddenly unleashed a left 
hook that traveled just a few inches 
to the challenger's jaw. Down went 
Finch on his hands and knees. He 

Tuesday, February 16, 1982 --page 8 
Ray clobbers Finch 
struggled up at eight, wobbled back against the ropes and referee Mills Lae signaled the fight was over at l:SO ofthe round. ­
At a prefight press conference, Leonard had told Finch, "I'll give you an opportunity to fight for the title, not to win it." 
Finch never had a chance. 
The 27-year-old Finch is called "Lightnin"' but on this night, Leonard packed all the thunder. 
The two men had met each other as amateurs nine years ago, with Leonard winning a three-round decision. 
Finch said he turned pro because "I was getting too many black eyes, and I wasn't getting paid for it." 
''I'm a much better fighter than I was when I was an amateur," said Finch. But he is not in Leonard's cla.Ss. And with money on the line, he couldn't last three full rounds. 
Finch, a native ofMilwaukee, Wis., who fights out of Las Vegas, lost for the fourth time against 30 wins and one draw in a pro career that started in 1973. He made $100,000, which was 33 times more than his previous high purse. It was Leonard's first defense of the undisputed title he won Sept. 16 when he stopped Thomas Hearns in the 14th round at Las Vegas. The easy victory was his 32nd against a single loss to Roberto Duran, which Leonard avenged in New Orleans on Nov. 25, 1980. 

Leonard has said he wants to defend the title three or four times this year, and his next fight might be against Roger Stafford, rated No.3 by the World Boxing Association and No.4 by the World Boxing Council. Finch had been rated third by the WBC but was unranked by the WBA. 
Leonard's impressive victory, worth at least S l million, was wit­nessed by a sellout crowd of 6, 700. It was televised live by Home Box Office and was broadcast by ABC Radio. 
The bout was the first title match here sinceJackJohnson retained the world heavyweight championship by knocking out Jim Je'fries in the 15th round July 4, 1910, in one of boxing's legendary fights. 
• • .Board 

MARCH 11-21, 1982 
Arrangements by 
SIX PER ROOM

ECHO TRAVEL. INC. MC15157IF 
(~ DOUBLE BEDS) 
FOUR PER ROOM (2 DOUBLE BEDS) ·Guaranteed kitchenene
$209 
or oceanfront availablt: at small additional charge. 

TRIP INaUDES 
• Round trip motor coach transportation via modern highway coaches to Daytona Beach, Florida leaving Friday, March 12, arriving the following day. The return trip departs the following Safurday arriving home Sunday. 
· Seven nights accommodations at the beautiful and exciting Plaza Hotel of Daytona Beach. Located at 600 North Atlantic Ave. it is the most demanded hotel on the strip at that lime. 
. A truly great schedule of activities including our famous pool deck parties and belly flop contest. 
• 
Optional excursions availablt: to Disney World and several other anraclions. 

• 
Numerous bar and restaurant discounts arranged in Daytona Beach for you. · The services of full time travel representatives to 


insure a trouble-free trip. · All taxes and gratuities. 
OUR TRIPSAREALWAYS THE BESTDEAL AND THE BEST TIME 
The Plaza Hotel, located right in the middle ofthe strip, is definitely the place to be during spring break. Ask anyone who has been to Daytona. The hotel has a pool, big panydeck, restaurant, four bars, colorTV, air conditioned rooms and plentyofactivities. Pictures are available where you sign up. Ourmotoc coaches are nothing but the highest quality highway coaches. We also give you more extras with ourtrip than anyone else. Don't blowit and go on a lower quality trip. 
LAST YE4R OVER 75 PEOPLEHAD THETIME OFTHEIRLIFEONTHIS TRIP. 
SIGN UP NOW AT mE TICKET OFFICE/RECORD STORE 10 AM-4 PM, MON.-FRI. OR CALL 283-3031 
continuedfrom page 7 
STANDINGS aaofFeb.14 
1. 
Lewis I (7-0) 

2. 
Farley II (6·1) 

3. 
Pasq. East (6-1) 4. O-C(5-2) 


5. Farley I (4-3) 6. Walsh (4-3) 
7. Lyons I (3·4) B. B·P(3-4) 9. Badin (2·5) 
10. 
Pasq. West (2·5) 

11. 
Lyons II (0·7) 

12. 
Lewis II (0-7) 


HOCKEY STANDINGS 
North South 
1, Grace (4-0) 1. Holy Cross (5-0) 2. Stanford (2·0-1) 2 D1llon (5-0) 3. Cavanaugh (2-1-1) 3. Alumni (4-1) 4.0-C(2-1) 4. Mornssey (2-3) 5. Keenan (0-2-1) 5. St. Ed's (2-3) 
6. Flanner (0-3-1) 6. Pangborn (1-3) 7. Zahm (0-3) 7. Sarin (0-4) B. Fisher (0-5) 
• 
-------~--------------­

The Observer Tuesday, February 16, 1982 -page 9 
Men's hoops playoffs approach 
MEN'S BASKETBALl. -In a close game this past Sun­day, Grace (II) edged out 0-C ( 10), 45-44. The game walt to decide one ofthe two teams to represent the Pac Ten division in this years tournament. As 0-C coach Lee Manfred pointed out, "two of the things that really hurt us were Grace's strong rebounding and in the end, their free-throw shooting." Grace, a fast and physical team, heads into the t1rst round of the play-offs against once­beaten Holy Cross ( 5 ). 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL -Two top teams clashed last night as last week Pasquerilla East was up-ended by Farley II, 20-16. Farley captain Cindy Battel at­tributed the win to good ball handling and basic team· work, "lt was a close game to the end, but we were taking good shots and hitting them." The "Pac" clinched the victory with a bucket by Shay Koclher and upped their record to 7-1, second only to undefeated l.ewisl. 
HOCKEY -Off-Campus was handed its t1rst defeat last week by Grace, 6-3. The game was much closer than tht· score would indicate, though, as 0-C pull pulled its goalie with four minutes left in the game in hopes to even the score at four apiece. The tactic failed, however, as Grace took advantage of the opportunity, scoring twice more before it was over. Bill O'Nielled all scorers with a hat-trick.ln addition, Tim Farrell, captain Rich Laski, and Dave Crawford each chipped in a goal for Grace, which now sports a record of4-0, to lead the north division and top the NVA poll. 
TRACK -All those signed up for the interhall track met·t will be contacted th 1is week as to the time and date of the event. 

Inside lnterhall 
RACQUETBALL -The pairings for the men's and women's doubles tournament will appear in The Ob­server in tomorrow's edition. All scores must be turned in no later than 5 p.m. today. 
CROSS COUNTRY SKI -Mini-courses in cross country skiing will be held Feb. 17 at 4 p.m., and Feb. 20 at 10 a.m.. Students, faculty, and staflwill recieve ex­pert instruction, with all equipment furnished in two separate sessions which should last two hours apiece. 
WRESTUNG -Entries for the interhall wrestling tournement should be submitted by Feb. 24. Weight classes for the event will include: 123, 130, 13 7, 145, I 52, 160, 167, I 77, and heavy-weight. Halls may sign up as teams. To entercall239·6100 or come in (C-2 ACC). Contestants will be notified of the exact time and date. 
SWIMMING -The NVA will sponser an interhall swimming meet Feb. 24 at 7:30 p.m.. Some of the events will be: 200 yd. medley, 200 yd. freestyle, I 00 yd. freestyle, 200 yd. freestyle relay, and diving events. The meet is open to both men and women. For more information call Dennis Stark, at 6222 or Tom Kelly at 6100. 


Wife satisfied 
Wayne Levi wins Hawaiian Open 
HONOI.OLU (AP) Now, perhaps, Wayne Levi's wife can stop nagging him. 
"She's bt·t·n after me all year," he said, then lifted his voice into a fal­seuo parady. 
"I want to go to (the Tournament of Champions at) La Costa We've just GOT w go. So you've got to win a tournament. And you've got to win one quick," Levi said, then let his voict· drift down to its regular range as he continued the imaginary con­versation with a sheepish look and a shrug of his shoulders. 
"Well, I'll do what 1 can," he said. 
And that, his victory in the llawaiian Open golf championship over the weekend, gave Levi. 28, the third individual victory of his 6-year tour career and provided Judy Levi that trip to La Costa, Calif. and the prestigious Tournament of Cham­
.. . Phelps 
conttnuedfrompage 12 
senior teammates must live. 
"Why the hell shouldn't he do it?" harked Don Huff of the Washington Post when asked about the unique­ness of DeStefano's policy. Huff has been close to the Washington area high school basketball scene for several years. "If you really want a kid, then wait until the end of March." 
But when the details of Phelps' predicament were explained, Huff said simply, "That's a chance Digger ha~ to take." That is a chance that Phelps cannot and will not take. 
Whether Dawkins would have chosen Notre Dame or not really is not the issue. Both Destefano and Phelps are right in their philosophies given their respective situations, and the net result is that Dawkins is the loser. The solution is simple. Make all college coaches and high school players play by the same rules and wait until after the high school season is over. That doesn't give them much time per­haps, and it doesn't let the college recruiters show off their campuses in all the splendor and excitement of homecoming weekend, football games and pep rallks. 
Hut in the long run, it will be guys like Johnny Dawkins who will come out the winners. 
pions in April. 
"It was a very, very important win for me," Levi said. Not only did his gritty pc:rfor t mance in the face of numerous challengt'S get him a spot in the winners-only field at the Tournamem of Champions, he also gained a spot in the Masters and won an exc:mption from qualifying through the 1983 season. 
"It's always a great feeling to win a golf tournament, to know you can beat all the great players on the tour," Levi said. "This is particularly important since it gives me a berth in the Masters" in Augusta, Ga. in April. the first of the year's four major championships. 
"I played very well there last year. I have a good feeling about that tournament. I feel I can play vvell there again, that 1can really be com­petitive there." 

-
a:. 
w 
w 2 
The triumph was worth SS8,;oo from the purse of S32S,OOO and boosted his earnings for the young season to 569,658, more than he won all of last year when he drifted back into the ranks of the Monday morning qualifiers. 
He had only one more exemption before he'd have to start facing the extremely difficult chore ofattempt­ing to qualify for each weekly event. 
But while he now can pick and choose his places, his schedule will remain the same for the next few weeks. He's playing in the Los An­geles Open and the four Florida tournaments 
But then there's a little break followed by a couple of happy addi­tions to his schedule -the Masters and the Tournament ofChampions. 

~-----~--------------· 
SCHOOL OF MEDICINE • CIFAS UNIVERSITY • 
"CLASSES TAUGHT IN ENGLISH" 
The University is located in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic. Our Medical Program is tailored after the traditional U.S. Model of Medical Education and is fully accredited. 
OPENINGS AVAILABLE 
"Our school is listed in Vol. 35, No. 4 of the WHO chronicle published by the World Health Organization." 
For Mor~ vrite to: CIFA., Ul"lv~t::n;:)ll T .,'-nuuL v.-•••o:u•~INE DEAN OF ADMISSIONS 12820 WHITTIER BLVD., SUITE 29 • WHITTIER, CALIF. 90602 
¥JOIN THE MOST SOPHISTICATED NUCLEAR ENGINEERING PROGRAM IN THE WORLD 
¥ IMMEDIATE OPENINGS FOR COLLEGE STUDENTS WORKING-TOWARD A BS/BA IN ENGINEERING I MATH I PHYSICS,
~ 

OR CHEMISTRY· 2 INCLUDES A FULL YEAR OF GRADUATE LEVEL NUCLEAR TRAINING AT OUR EXPENSE WITH A $3000 BONUS UPON 
w 
COMPLETION 

a: ¥ EARN A STARTING SALARY OF $24, 100THAT INCREASES TO OVER $44,800 AFTER FOUR YEARS., PLUS FREE MEDICAL AND
<C 

DENTAL CARE, UNLIMITED SICK LEAVE, THIRTY DAYS ANNUAL
w 

PAID VACATION, AND EXECUTIVE CLUB PRIVILEGES. 
... 

DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY 
CJ 

PERSONNEL WILL BE ON CAMPUS ~~~~~EP6E~NJ;bvANIA:l INDIANAPOLIS, IN 46204 317-269-6183 OR 1-800-382-9404
2 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
• 


The Observer Tuesday, February 16, 1982 -page 10 
Allison loses bumper, wins Daytona 500 

DAYTONA Beach, Fla. (AP)-His detractors insist it's Bobby Allison' secret weapon-push a button on the dashboard and the rear bumper falls off. 
Then Allison, his 3,700-pound car lightened by between 18 and 30 

.... pounds, depending upon who you ask, and made slicker aerodynami­cally by the lack ofa bumper jutting out from the car, dashes off and hides from the rest of the Grand Na­tional field to win yet another stock car race. Ofcourse, there's not really such a button, but that was the result last May in the Winston 500 at Talladega, Ala. again Sunday when the 44-year­old driver from Hueytown, Ala. won the S927,625 Daytona 500. Just three laps into the race, Al­lison and Cale Yarborough -both running along in the middle of the Does this look like a Digger Phelps nightmare? lead draft -bumped while roaring The Notre Dame basketball coach is shown throgh the fourth turn ofDaytona In­
,. Topamateur athlete 
CarlLewis receives prestigious Sullivan Award 
INDIANAPOUS (ap)-Carl Lewis, 20, the world indoor record holder in the long jump at 28 feet, I inch, received the U.S. Amateur Atheltic Union's Sullivan Award Monday night as the nation's outstanding amateur athlete for 1981. 
Lewis, a sophomore at the Univer­sity of Houston, received the awatd at the annual Sullivan banquet at the Indianapolis Convention Center. 
He was the first athlete sinceJesse Owens in 1936 to win the long jump and the 1 00-meter dash in the NCAA 
\. track and field meet, and he also was a double winner in those events In the Athletics Congress meet last year. "It is so far out, just incredible," said Lewis, a native of Willingboro, 
N.J. "This makes me feel good about what it represents. To be named worthy of an award like this speaks for itself." 
The first winner was golfer Bobby

THE WORLD IS YOUR CAMPUS 
Jones. Over the years, track and field events provided the greatest num­ber of previous Sullivan winners, with such athletes as Bruce Jenner, Frank Shorter, Bill Toomey, Randy 

Gain a full semester's credits while you 
SAIL AROUND THE WORLD! 
Matson, Jim Ryun, John Pennel. Wilma Rudolph and Rafer Johnson among the 29 honored. Swimming and diving ranked second with nine, 

:• 
including Naber, Tracy Caulkins, Tim Shaw, John Kinsella and Mark Spitz. 
Special SlidePresentation 
February 16, 1982 
Other winners included Bill Brad­ley and Bill Walton in basketball, Kurt Thomas in gymnastics, Doc Blanchard in football. 


DAYTONA BEACH 
SPRING BREAK 
Two World itineraries are offered each 
DAYIONA D£WXE . OAYIONA ECONOMY . 
W 8 OOys/7 mghts luxur· 8 dovs/7 n1ghh at the
academic year, sponsored by University of Pittsburgh. 
ious lodging at the Diplomat Beach Motel Wh•tehOJI Inn on the 
Oceontront lodg•ng
beaCh near the pterl

Spring voyage sails March 4, 1912 from Ft. Lauderdale· Spain, Greece, Egypt, 
Optional Party Bus 1n 
:J Oceanfront Hotel many areas

Israel, lndi~, Sri lanka, Philippines, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Korea., Japan. 
0 Optional Party Bus 1n Welcome Porfy 
many areas 
Sports ActiVItieS Welcome Party

Fall voyage sails Sept. I, 1912 from Seattle • Japan, Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, 
All taxes 
::..: Sports Act•vities Disney World Opt1on 

Indonesia, Indio, Sri lanka, Egypt, Israel, Greece, Spain. 
All taxes Olsr.v'{ Wor1d Opt10n 
Only $99 

More than 60 university courses. with in-port and voyage-related emphasis. Faculty from 
Party Bus Option $
Only $119

University of Pittsburgh and other leading universities, augmented by visitiflg area 
Party Bua Option $

experts. 
Optional tours, including special tours into the People's Republic of China, available. 
Participation is open ta qualified students from all accredited colleges and universities. 
JOHN HREBEC Semester at Sea admits students without regard to color. race or creed. The S.S. 
Phone: 283 -1216 

Universe is fully air-conditioned, 18,000 tons, registered in liberia and built in America. 
Hours: 5:30-7:00 pmn:oo -12:00 pm

FOR A FREE COLOR BROCHURE. WRITE: SEMESTER AT SEA, UCIS, UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH, FOF.BES QUADRANGLE, PITTSBURGH, PA 15260, OR CALL toll free (800) 85-'· 0195 (in Californiu call (7U) 771·6590). 
Lewis is the fi t rst blackathlete lete to win the Sullivan Award since Wilma Rudolph in 1961. 
The award was presentc;d by for­mer swimmerJohn Naber, the 1977 Sullian winner. 
Other finalists for this year's award, recogmzmg accomplish­ments in 1981, included track star Evelyn Ashford, unbeaten in the 100-meter dash and acclaimed by Track and Field News as the sport's top woman athlete in the world. 
Other favorites were figure skater Scott Hamilton, the reigning U.S. and world champion, and swimmer Mary T. Meagher, a Lousiville, Ky., high school junior who set world records in the I00-and 200-meter butterfly events. 
The other finalists this year were Kathy Arendsen, 23, Holland, Mich., for softball; Chris Campbell. 27, Ames, Iowa, wrestling; Tracie Ruiz, 18, Bothell, Wash., synchronized that nature nas to be one of the hig­swimming; Lones Wigger Jr., 44, hest honors an athlete can win," said Carter, Mont., shooting; and Sheila Naber, who now is a promotional Young-Ochowicz, 31, Pewaukee, spokesman for various amateur ath­Wis., cycling. letic·programs and is on the board of 
"On a strictly logical basis, it's got directors for the 1984 Los Angeles :to be the most prestigious award an Olympics organizing committee. amateur athlete can win," said 
Naber, a former Olympic swimming Besides Naber, three other former champion who closed out his career Sullivan A ward winners -all former in 1977 with 18 AAU and 10 NCAA track stars -were in Indianapolis for titles at the Univesity of Southern Monday night's program: Dr. Glenn 
California. "An athlete is not only Cunningham ( 19 3 3 ), Don Lash 
judged on his or her performance, (1938) and Fred Wilt (1950). Lash 
but on their performance compared currently is an Indiana state repre­
co other outstanding athletes. sentative, and Wilt is the women's 
"When I was master of track coach at Purdue University. ceremonies for this award three years ago, I referred to the nominees as the equivalent of 10 Heisman Last year's winner of the Sullivan 
Trophy winners at one table. A ward, named for a founder of the They're all the outstanding athletes AAU, was speed skater Eric Heiden. in their sports. Only one other skater, Dick Button 
"To come out on top of a field of in 1949, had won the award since its 
inception 50 years ago. 

ternational Speedway's high-banked, 2.5-mile oval. 
The bump seemed a small one, not even noticeable to the national television audience or the more than 110,000 people at the track. But the bumper suddenly flew from Allison's car. 
Joe Millikan, a few cars behind, ran over the skitteringlength ofmet­al, cutting his right rear tire and starting an accident that took three cars out of the race and damaged three others. 
After the race, marred by three other crashes, one ofwhich took out three of the top cars in the 42-car field ad badly damaged four others, Yarborough was incensed about the incident. 
"He (Allison) ran all over me," said Yarborough, who was involved in one ofthe other accidents and still finished second. "That's what knocked the bumper off. He was racing like it was the last lap. He got underneath me and carried me right into the wall." 
Allison allowed how he "might have got up into Cale," but he added, "It sure wasn't intentional; it was just one of those things that happens in racing." 
Asked about an accusation by Yar­borough's crew chief Tim Brewer that Allison's bumper was rigged to fall off, made in the heat ofbattle in a television interview, Nelson said, "I think anybody who would accuse somebody of that is really digging the bottom ofthe barrel." 
Regardless of how you figure it, Allison joined Yarborough and Richard Petty as the only drivers to win stock car racing's most pres­tigious event more than once in its 24 years. He also picked up a record winner's share of S120,050, adding that to the S50,000 he won a week earlier in the Busch Clash, a 50-mile dash for pole winners from the pre­vious season. 
And the victory earned his team a spot in NASCAR's Winner's Circle program, in which eight cars are paid appearance money for taking part in the entire, 30-race Grand Na­tional schedule. 
... Tennis 
continuedfrom page 12 
team with a lot of talent. In a year they should be really tough." 
''We do have a young team," said Head Coach Tom Fallon, "with three freshman in the lineup. We're going to improve a lot. I'm not upset with this match at all. I'm pleased with our performance today, and our goal will' be to win 20 matches again this year." 
FORT LAUDERDALE 
SPRING BREAK 
8 doys/7 n1ghts l0dg1ng at the beautiful t?rvao Hotel foc1ng the ocean 1n the heart of LOUdefdalel 
O.:eonfront Hotel OptiOf\OJ Party Bus •n many or90$ Pools1de welCome party 
Sports Ji.cTMti&S All taxes 
$139 
Party Bus Option $ 


Ihe~~r====================================== 
~~4()l~~•l=============================T=u=e=sd=a=y=,F=e=b=r=u=ary==1=6=,=1=9=8=2===p=a=g=e=l=l
Michael Molinelli

Molartty 

B£RNJE:: PRoM JoHN HoPKJIVS MG.DICAL XHooL 
C4U£P He TDTE.LL HE: THAT YOU t.Ni?OLLE'P 
IN H£PJC.4L ,SCHOOL 


Doonesbury 
8A/J NW5, SIR. 

Simon 

The Daily Crossword 
-;;---r;;"--,r.;;-""T:'-:--r:-::--, 14 Study hard  39 -de co­ 62 Ms Bailey  
16 Laughing  logne  63 Alaska city  
':":"'+-+--+-+~ 17 Even-handed 40 Circus  64 Bird or  
18 Italy's  .• i'  performer  road  
o:::--t--t--t-+---4  shape  43 Sure!  65 Poker word  


©1982 Tribune Compar.~-Syndicate. Inc. AU Rights Reserved 

, 

YOU'RE 1lK.HT 8Ff! THERE CER­T~tNl ~ \'ii MacH ~[)D HERE AT N-D WtlERE fl MOUSE HA~ 'f>EEN 1\~N'IED RfC.TDR Of ~EENAN 

ACROSS  29 Cornish  50 Type of  
1 Smack  or candy  rocket  
5 Repository  31  Too  51  Billiards  
for a torah  35 Market·  53 And so  
8 Wide  places in  forth: abbr.  
13 River to  old Greece  55 Child eye·  
the Seine  37 Great evil  list's aids  

19 Poker  44 Alter the  66 Merriment  
stakes  deuce  67 Peak  
20 Series of  45 Cried  68 Senior  
ideas  shrilly:  69 Also  
23 Consumed  var.  70 Get rid of  
24 Fleming  46 Portuguese  
namesakes  monetary  DOWN  
"::::-'"1-~r---4  25 Former  units  1 Kind·  
Egyptian  48 Sailboat  hearted  
ruler  item  2 Fibber  
3 Europe's  
neighbor  
4 Persian  
fairy  
5 Monastery  
VIP  
6 Top man?  
7 Tie up  
8 Wernher  
von­ 
9-bell  
(arouses a  
response)  
10 Vow  
11  Dill  
2116182  18'"'*'~.-;;+.--F--t-.:ril  12 D run ka rd · s problem  
15 Moral  


Campus 
•11:15 
a.m., 3:30 p.m. -Computer Class, Census Data and Software, M-115 Computing Cen· ter/Math Building 

•7, 
9, 11 p.m. -FUm, "Knute Rockne, All American", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Senior Class, $1 admission 

•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Heritage of the Apocalypse: Implications for Women", Professor Adela Yarbro Collins, Carroll Hall Auditorium, Maddeva Hall, Saint Mary's College 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Business Management: The Development ofa Profession", Professor Harold C. Livesay, Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Center for Continuing Education, Sponsored by Professions in American History Lecture Series 

•8: 
15 p.m. -Concert, Irene Schnddmann, pianist, Rev. Patri<:k Maloney, C.S.C., tenor, Annen­bergAuditorium, Snite Museum ofArt 


T.V. Tonight 
Tuesday, February 16 

7:00p.m.  16  MASH  
22  CBS News  
28  Joker's Wild  
34  MacNeil/Lehrer Report  
46  ll's Your Business  
7:30p.m.  16  The Muppet Show  
22  Family Feud  
28  Tic Tac Dough  
34  Straight Talk  
46  God's News Behind the News  
8:00p.m.  16  Father Murphy  
22  CBS Special: ThL' Wall  
28  Happy Days  
34  Life on Eanh  
46  Lester Sumrall Teaching  
8:30p.m.  28  Laverne and Shirley  
46  The Lahayes On Family Life  
9:00p.m.  16  Maverick  
22  CBS Movie: "Dangerous Company"  
28  Three's Company  
34  Amerkan Playhouse  
46  Today with Lester Sumrall  
!O:OOp.m.  16  Flamingo Road  
28  Too Close for Company  
34  Marva Collins: Excellence In Educa­ 
lion  
46  Dwight Thompson  
!0:30p.m.  28  Han To Han  
34  Were You There?  
ll:OOp.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
34  The Dick Caven Show  
46  Praise tht: Lord  
11:30p.m.  16  Tonight Show  
22  Alice/WKRPI McCloud  
28  ABC News Nightline  
34  Captioned ABC News  
!2:00a.m.  28  Fanrasy Island  
46  Lester Sumrall Teaching  

: Today in History 
Today's highlight in history: In 1959, Fidel Castro became Premier ofCuba. On this date: In 1871, the Franco-Prussian War ended in defeat for 
France. 

In 1873, a republic was proclaimed in Spain. 
In 1918, England's port of Dover was bombarded by 
German submarines in World War I. And in 1945, massive U.S. air raids on Tokyo began during World War II. 
Ten years ago, Mrs. Clifford Irving was arrested as a fugitive from Swiss justice, in the case of her husband's disputed _!Jiography of Howard Hughes. 
One year ago, the AFL-CIO called for new job­training programs for the unemployed and denounced wholesale cuts in federal programs as proposed by 
-
f 
1 
,
• 
I 



Jeb Cashin 

21 Floating 
22 Sharp· shooter Annie 
25 Lecherous man 26 Consent 
27 .._say, notasl do" 
28 Onassis 30 Follows 32 Sprang 33 More rational 34 Best 36 Church message 38 Ruler of a Greek province 
41 Giving out cards 
42 Color 
47 Meager 
49 Superficial cover 52 Ship 54 Rough Iabrie 
55 Duck 
56 Attack 
57 Lopez song 
58 Ages 
59 Per 
60 Citrus fruit 
61 Snow vehicle 

IMM/61?A710N JIJ5TC4LI..EP 70 ASK IF itJ.J /AIXJW SWNSOI< HIM. APPAFarfl.'t 
70 mP fRI»t r;erTI!JG /J&KR.Tl3/J, Ai.PHONSE llJW TID1 YOU t/6&HIS FATf/&1?. I~)())'/) IIJ4NTM1i 7lJ 
Garry Trudeau 
I'M PR/HJ~ YOU W/i'IJNGA5 SIR. A LESS Cl::U1­USI.IAL..CAU. PA5S/(JJA7E MAN TH/3M BACJ<. WOIJW HAV£3 5I3NT 
AN!J•. HIM PACKING. 

62 Money player 
President . -AP 
BUT WHAT DOES THE STUDENT UNION RECORD STORE HAVE FOR ME? 
CHEAPER PRICES PRICES ... Save 24-32% off list prices! MOST CURRENT SINGLES-S6.50 (compare at S8.99 list). Cut-outs...$2.98 to S5.98 
CONVENIENCE...The NDSU Record Store is located on the Main floor of LaFortune and is open 10-4 PLUS-ordered albums take l week only! 
GREAT SELECTION ...Springsteen, Fogelberg, Moody Blues, Stevie Nicks, Cristopher Cross, Pat Benatar, journey, and many more. 
ALSO ... recorded and blank tapes available. 
SO...for CHEAPER PRICES, MORE CONVENIENCE, and a GREAT SELECTION the S.U. Record Store today'!! 


Zzt@YA@%Z~@Wff@W~ffdW#dWhf4447hf~PAW@HA¥4 ..~~;;~~~~;;~;;;;~;;;;~;;.--.................................~~00~~~z~~~0~0~0~;~~~~~~~~~~~~~w-~m~w~~W-<~~~~w-~~~0~-~~~tl 
~-----~--­

~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, February 16, 1982-page 12
S~orts 
Crucial week 
ND women will'be there' 
By MARK HANNUKSELA Lisa, a 5-10 guard, scores 16.6 come out firing. 
Sports Writer points per game, while Lynette, a 5-"They like to run," adds Notre I I forward, averages I3.8. Dame's second-year coach. "They CHAMPAIGN, Ill. Jerzy A broken finger has . forced like to get in games with scores in Kosinski called it "Being there." Lynette to the sidelines for the pass the 80's and 90's. In order for us to Beginning tonight, Notre Dame's two weeks, and Illinois Sports In­beat them, we have to make it a h~f­~ women's basketball team will find formation Director Lani Jacobsen court ball game. We have to slow out ifthey are in fact "there," or still says she probably won't play in them down, which means we either in the process offinding their way. tonight's game either. have to hit the boards hard or beat 
The Irish will meet the Fighting Il­That means that the Illini will be them down the floor. They have a lot lini ofthe University ofIllinois in As­without their rebounding leader of weapons offensively, and they are sembly Hall here tonight in the first ( Lynettte averages I 0. 7 rpg.) against very well drilled, very well coached of a crucial two-game week for the Irish. and they execute very well. It's gon­Coach Mary DiStanislao's club. "Lisa and Lynette Robinson are na be interesting." 
On Saturday, Notre Dame will the heart and sole ofthat team," says "Extremely important" might be a travel to Columbia, S.C. for a game DiStanislao. "They are its character. better way ofputting it. against nationally ranked South Lynette is already out, so if we can IRISH ITEMS -Tonight's game Carolina. just take Lisa out ..." marks the third meeting between 
The outcome of both games will DiStanislao never finished the sen­the Irish and lllini and Notre Dame go a long way in determining Notre tence. has yet to win a game in the series. In Dame's chances ofgarnering its first­The task of controlling Robinson the two games, Notre Dame has ever NCAA tournament bid. will probably fall into the hands of been outscored by 56 points, includ­
Illinois is coming off a disappoint­Ruth Kaiser, Notre Dame's team ing last season's 88-53 ·mauling in ing 69-66 loss to Ohio State in the leader in steals and minutes played. the ACC ... Ball State and Northern finals of the Big Ten Tournament Kaiser, at 5-I 0, will give up no­Illinois are the only common op· held this weekend in East Lansing, thing in height to Robinson, who ponents between the two schools 
.-Mich. The Illini, seeded No. 1 in the will be moved to a forward slot thus far, although Illinois has already tournament, had beaten Michigan against the Irish. met future Notre Dame opponents State and Indiana before losing to Starting with Robinson at forward DePaul and Michigan State. The Illini the third-seeded Buckeyes, who had will be sophomore Kim Brombolich, showed no mercy to Ball State, upset Northwestern, the No. 2 seed, the team's second leading reboun­humiliating the Cardinals 113-61, in the semifinals the day before. dcr (7.9) and third leading scorer while the Irish could manage only a 
"Ohio State was just on a roll," (1I.8). three-point win against the same says DiStanislao, who watched Sun­Diane Eickholt, a 6-1 sophomore club three weeks ago. Illinois beat day's finals. "They used nine or 10 from Hinton, Iowa, will start at cen­Northern by 14 points, and Notre players, while Illinois had only ter. Eickholt averages 1 0. 7 ppg. Dame won by IS ... With her 7-for­
seven, and Ohio State's depth just Cindy Stein will replace Lynette 7 performance from the foul line wore them down." Robinson in the starting lineup, and Saturday, Laura Dougherty set a new After winning its first I 0 games, Il­play at one guard spot, while senior Irish record for free throw percent· linois dropped six ofits next 14, and Pat Morency, at 5-5 the smallest of age in a game. The previous best was 6-for-6.
fell from its perch as one of the na­the Fighting lllini, will play the tion's top 20 teams. other. But with or without a national ranking, the Illini will pose problems Morency is the fifth double-figure 
Recruiting game 

for the nation's top scoring defense. scorer for Illinois, averaging 10.3 _ The Irish give up less than 50 points ppg., and Stein, at 9.7, is not far be­per game, considerably less than the hind. 
Phelps, Prep Star both lose 
Illini's 84-point offensive average. "Without Lynette Robinson, Il­linois loses something," says 
This is the unfortunate tale ofJohnny Dawkins. Five players currently average Johnny is a superb basketball player -no relation to
DiStantsJao, "'but they arc still an ex­double-figures in scoring for the cellent team. Their chances for an Darryl Dawkins, the Philadelphia '76ers Lord of the club coached byJane Schroeder, led NCAA berth rest squarely on their Chocolate Thunder. This Dawkins is a star guard at by a pair of identical twins, Lisa and success from now until the end of Washington, D.C.'s Mackin High School. He won't be Lynette Robinson. the season, so they are going to attending Notre Dame next fall because he simply got 
caught between a high school coach trying to protect 
his players' futures, and a college coach trying to 

protect the future of his program. visits. Recruiters can't visit with the players or even call 
For the first time in recent memory, Mackin stands them on the phone. They only may speak with Des­ready to win the Washington Metropolitan Athletic tefano himself or the players' parents. And these rules Conference title, traditionally owned by Morgan apply not only to out-of-town schools, but to George­Wooten's DeMatha squads. The two schools square off town, Maryland, Catholic University, University of the 
OSUBuckeyes defeat 
Notre Dame men 
tonight to decide the championship. Basketball buffs District ofColumbia and American University as well. By ED KONRADY Muench won the ne~!..eQ.int and the know that over the years the WMAC has produced such But DeStefano is only half the story. The plight of Sports Writer match, 5-7, 6-2, 7-6 ( 8-6). stars as Hawkeye Witney, Sidney Lowe, Derek Witten­Digger Phelps must be addressed. It's easy for DeS­
Ohio State sealed its victory asJeff burg and Kenny Carr, plus a slew ofNotre Dame players tefano to say "Let 'em wait," but Digger's response is
• Last Sunday, the Notre Dame Kohls defeated Mike Gibbons 6-4, 6-like Austin Carr, Bob Whitmore, Adrian Dantley, Collis simple. "I waited last year, and got burned." 
men's tennis team lost a tough 6-3 2. Jones, Sid Catlet, Don "Duck" Williams, Cecil Rucker During the spring of '81, Phelps waited on three of decision to the Ohio State Buckeyes, "I thought the freshmen did a and Tom Sluby. the nation's top-rated big men to make their decisions. led by Big Ten Indoor Champion great job," said Hartzell. "I remem­On one side oftheJohnny Dawkins story is Paul DeS­One by one, they signed on elsewhere, leaving Phelps Ernie Fernandez. ber my first time. I was very tense tefano, the coach at Mackin. Prior to the 1981-82 with two guards. And neither Ron Rowan or Dan Duff 
The Irish led 2-1 at the end of the and nervous when I first came out. season, DeStefano declared that none of his seniors were rated very highly by prep rating services. doubles matches, as freshmen Mike They seemed to be relaxed. Tom were to visit college campuses until the conclusion of Phelps made the decision long ago that this year he Gibbons and Jim Navotny defeated (Pratt) played an outstanding match the season. His action is subject to two interpretations. would go after only one guard. With guards john Pax­Lior Rusineck and Mark Redding 6-4, -either man could have won it." A few college coaches view DeStefano as a greedy son, Rowan and Duff, plus swingmen Bill Varner and 7-6 (7-5 ), at second singles with Jim No one was making for the exits tyrant doing everything within his power to see to it Sluby returning, Phelps knew he simply could not keep Falvey and Tom Pratt defeating Jeff however, as Mark McMahon took on tlhat his team wins the conference title, a definite feat­that many players happy. The guard he wanted was 
Kohls and Jeff Span at third singles Fernandez at first singles. McMahon her in his cap that could propel him into the college Dawkins, but when he learned of Destefano's policy last 6-4,6-1. won the first set 6-3, putting quite a coaching ranks. A more realistic perspective, however, fall, he knew there would be problems. 
At first doubles, Fernandez and shock into the finest player in the is that DeStefano is genuinely concerned for he welfare For Phelps, it came down to a whoever-signs-first Chris Cunin scored the first point for Midwest. ofhis players. situation. "If(Joe) Buchanan wants to sign," he said last the Buckeyes as they defeated Mark "Ernie wants to win this easy," "I took over this job in August of Cecil's (Rucker) week, "we've got to take him. We just can't afford to McMahon and Paul Idzik 6-2, 7-6 (7-said Chris Cunin, his doubles senior year," Destefano told The Observer Friday. "I wait on Dawkins. We could wind up with nothing. We 4). partner and third singles player for really wasn't in a position then to take this kind ofaction returned to the John Paxson school of recruiting this 
The score was tied when Mark the Buckeyes, "and he can't. This because a lot of the recruiting had already started." year. You offer a spot to three or four guys who you ~Redding defeated Tom Robison at guy (McMahon) is pretty good. He But now that he is firmly established, DeStefano has know can play, and the one who decides first gets the fourth singles, 6-4, 6-4. However, has a good return and good passing acted, and the no-visit edict affects not only Dawkins, scholarship." 
the Irish went ahead 3-2 as Captain shots. Plus, this court seems to raise one of the most highly touted guards in the nation, but Buchanan brought the stable of recruits to five -6­Tom Hartzell defeated Cunin in a his game up a level. Ernie thinks he's all of his seniors, three of whom are being sought after 10 center Ken Barlow, forwards Tim Kempton (6-9) close match at third singles, 7-6, 6-4. better and wants to win quickly, but by major college powers. "It was a combination deci­and jim Dolan (6-8), and 6-4 swingmanJoe Price, who 
However, the Irish could not pull he has to work for it." sion ofthree parties," he says. "The parents, the players can serve as a second guard. 
out the other close matches they Fernandez settled down, and with and I all agree that it's more important for them to con­And so Saturday's signing of Buchanan officially needed. pinpoint volleying took the next centrate on our season. Let the recruiters wait until our closed the book on Dawkins as far as Notre Dame is At second singles, Falvey lost to two sets and the match, 3-6, 6-2, 6-2. season's over." concerned. Phelps still is looking for one more big man Rusineck 6-3, 6-4, and in the closest After the match, Fernandez com­Destefano put up with countless inconveniences ("6·7 and up" he says), but ifhe doesn't get another, this match of the day, Tom Pratt lost to mented that "McMahon is a strong during Rucker's senior year, ones that most high school still will be regarded as one of the nation's best collec­Karl Muench. Pratt came back from player from the baseline and seems coaches tolerate, but probably should not. "It's not fair tion ofrecruits. Ofcourse Notre Dame is elated to have two match points down to send the to come up with the tough shots in to the rest ofour team to have one or two seniors mis­a player of Buchanan's caliber, but the fact remains that 
match into sudden death. With the the important moments. sing from practice for a couple of days before a game Dawkins' menu of possible colleges has been trimmed sudden death set tied at six points, "Notre Dame seems like a young while they visit campuses," he says. "They can't possib­by one because of the policy with which he and his Muench hit a shot that caught the ly be concentrating 100 percent on our team." top of the net and dribbed over. See TENNIS, page 10 DeStefano's policy goes one step beyond campus See PHELPS, page 9 




