' ' ' UMOClist -page 7 

VOL XVI, NO. I 58 the intlqwntlent ~llldt:nl new~papcr st·rving notrt: Jamt· and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, APRIL 28, 1982 

1/al/ President Counctl • members recieved copies oftheproposed budgetfor nextyearat last 
F inallecture 
Hiss criticizes McCarthy 
Republicans needed to reduce the stature of Franklin Roosevelt." A direct attack was impossible, said Hiss, but degrading his stall, fol­lowers and policies was not. 
McCarthy's power rested in his ability to instill fear, according to Hiss, and thus produce a Catch 22 type situation. "To trust McCarthy was dangerous; to distrust him all the more so," he said. 
Hiss believes the downfall of McCarthy came about largely 
See HISS, page 4 

Chinese jetliner crashes into lllountain 
PEKING (AP) -A Chinese jet­

liner carrying 112 people, including 
two Americans from Hawaii, 
crashed into a mountain near the 
scenic southern city ofGuilin and all 
aboard were killed, officials of 
China's CAAC airline reported yes­
terday. 
The U.S. Consulate in Canton said it was informed the Americans were Judson Greffitt, 68, and his wife Mar­garet, 67, of Honolulu, who arrived in China several days ago as tourists. 
A consulate spokesman said Gref­fitt was a lecturer at Chungshan Uni­versity in Canton before the Communists took control of China in 1949. Sources in Hong Kong said he was a researcher at the Bishop Museum in Honolulu. 
The official Xinhua news agency said the British-made Trident jet crashed Monday but gave no reason for the delayed report and made no mention offoreigners. Unconfirmed reports in Hong Kong said that in ad­dition to the two Americans, the foreigners included 50 Hong Kong Chinese and several Japanese tourists. 
China's government rarely dis­closes news about disasters and there was no immediate way to ob­tain details ofthe crash until authori­ties released them. 
Xinhua said CAAC's tlight .~.30.3 was carrying 10-'1 passengers and eight crew members when it departed Canton's Baiyun (White Cloud) Airport for Guilin, but radio contact suddenly was lost .35 minutes later. The plane crashed 2H miles from Guilin, Xinhua said. 
Guilin is on the Li River in the Guangxi Autonomous Region about 250 miles northwest of Canton. 
Official confirmation of the crash 

came hours after a Hong Kong television station reported the jet had not been heard from for more than a day and may have crashed. 
A spokesman for the Royal Hong Kong Observatory in the British colony 90 miles south of Canton confirmed that weather over the Canton-Guilin area had been poor since Sunday. 
Xinhua said the State Council ­China's Cabinet -along with CAAC and the Guangdong provincial government had sent officials to the scene to join Guangxi officials in­vestigating the accident. 
Records on past Chinese air crashes arc sketchy because of the government's general policy of not reporting disasters. Details of the devastating 1976 earthquake in the northeast city ofTangshan were not disclosed for months. 
It seemed likely that China reported the crash ncar Guilin be­cause foreigners were aboard and because reports of the crash were circulating in Hong Kong. 
The burden on China's transporta­tion. industry has increased greatly as tourism has expanded. China reported more than 7 million visitors last year, up 1 . .3 million from the previous year. 
CAAC stands for Civil Aviation Ad­ministration of China, which reported an increase of 21 percent in 19HO and 19H I in the total amount of passengers, cargo and mail handled. 
The airline operates 57 Tridents and I 0 Hoeing 70'7s, mostly hought between 1971 and 19'75, and anum­ber of Soviet-built planes. China bought three Hoeing 747s in 19HO. 
CAAC said in March that it operates ahout 600 scheduled Bights a week on 170 domestic routes. 
By LAUREL-ANN DOOLEY 
News Stujf 
Alger Hiss, the well-known politi­
calligurc of the '·Hls and '50s, spoke 
about tht· McCarthy era last night to 
an over-capacity crowd at the 

library auditorium. presenting the 
linal Student llnion sponsored 
kdurt· of the semester. 
Calling 1\h:Carthy "a man of few if any principlt:s, an opportunist who d10se the path of Red-hunting be­t·ausc ht· hetrd it was a good way to gt·t votes," lliss attempted to analyze both tht· mo\-cment and the man he­hind it. 
".'l<kCarthy was a cruel, ruthless buffoon," said lliss."lk at no time took seriously the charges he was making" 
While stating that the "wave of 

hysteria" produced was due to a 
nmcurrc:nce of factors, Hiss at­
tributed McCarthy's success to "the 
eagerness of the Republican party to be re-elected. 

HPCannounces Sowder Awardwinner 
By SONY A STINSON 
JtuffReporter 
Pangborn hall won the March­April Sowder Award for hall spirit, the Hall Presidents' Council an­nounced at last night's meeting. 
The Pangborn Open golf tourna­ment, a screw-your-roommate, booze cruise, and barbecue were among the activities meriting the award. 
The HPC also debated the adop­tion of an HPC alcohol policy. 
The policy, which HPC presi­dent Mike McAulill'e stressed was "not a temperance movement but an education process." includes proposals for alcohol abuse com­missioners in each dorm and the Council's support ofa rule to limit the amount of money spent on al­cohol at hall-sponsored events to 75 percent. The policy did not pass on last night's vote, but the Coun­

cil will bring up the proposal again at the beginning of next year. 
HPC members also finalized plans for the upcoming Pig Roast at St. Patrick's Park. The Council will donate all profits from that event to the family ofTom Peruccio. 
Also discussed was the pos­

sibility of Transfer Orientation 
commissioners and other ways to 
help transfer students adjust more 
easily. 
Another item was the U.S. Department ofEducation's request for student government workers interested in becoming Student Leader Officers. These officers 
would work with government committees in making policy deci­sions in secondary education. 
Members also received copies of the proposed HPC Budget, totall­ing 516,842, in preparation for the budget meeting tomorrow. 
WSND begins1SU11ttnerfund'drive 
By CECILIA LUCERO 
StaffReporter 
With the upcoming arrival ofsum­mer, WSND once again revives its Summerfund, the semi-annual cam­paign which raises funds to aid the station's tlnancial situation during the Christmas and summer breaks. 
The funds will finance repair, maintenance and capital improve­ments for the following year. These allocations also provide the salaries for WSND's executive board, production and staff managers. and some announcers, who collectively earn approximately S250 per semes­ter. These funds also cover expenses for taped shows and live hook-ups of fine arts broadcasting, such as the Metropolitan Opera. 
In the past years, WSND has been relying on pledges from listeners, through the Summerfund, and through FM programs that are un­derwritten by the sponsoring com­pany (such as the Metropolitan Opera). According to Tom Nessin­ger, station manager of WSND last year, pledges have been successful in covering the operating ex­penditures, even exceeding the necessary ammount. 
The University appropriates funds 

to WSND to operate during the 
academic year, but has never given the station funds for long breaks 
such as Christmas and summer. This 
year WSND requires S4500 per 
semester outside of the University 

fund to broadcast during the long 
breaks. 
Because most of the announcers 

for the station are student volun­
teers, a problem arises in obtaining 
broadcasters for the summer and 
Christmas interim. WSND must 
comply with FCC licencing regula­
tions which stipulate that all sta­
tions, including campus stations, 
must air programs for a total of twelve hours a day, 365 days a year. Therefore, during the three-week Christmas break and summertime, WSND resorts to hiring announcers to maintain the required air time. 
Professor James Danehy of the Chemistry department and an an­nouncer for . WSND, criticizes the llniversity's policy of financing the . station only during the academic year. Danehy claims that the station does manage to meet their financial demands and that the appeal to lis­teners for pledges is a workable idea. Danehy, however, emphasizes the notion that the University should 
take full responsibility for fin-ancing 
the station throughout the whole: 
year. 
"In view ofthe service that WSND 

unquestionably gives to the com­
munity," Danehy states, the Univer­
sity has "the primary responsibility 
to keep up something important to 
the University." He said, "I cannot 
believe that a University which has a 
multi-million dollar endowment 

will take this stance." 
Jim McDonnell, from Student Af. fairs, claims that WSND's Summer­fund drive has been "extremely successful and seems to get better every year." Furthermore, referring to the University appropriations to WSND for the academic year, McDonnell comments, "I don't see it as a problem at all." He remarks that WSND does not complain about the University's policy. 
McDonnell also points out the positive view, that local people con­sider WSND's programs as the "best or second best classical station in the area." WSND's establishment of the Summerfund continually succeeds in gaining the listener's support. The University should not have to finance the station at limes when the 1>tudcnts are not here, according to McDonnell. "People who benefit are the ones who hmd 
it. That seems fair to me." 
The current year's budget, totall­ing 529,916 (57,516 for AM and S22,400 for FM) is considerabl)' higher than the 1980-81 budget. 
, 



News Brief§ 
By The ( Jhserr•er and The Associated Press 
Anew exhibiton display in the central concourse of the University of Notre Dame's Memorial Library traces the history of liturgy on the campus from the earliest years as a missionary outpost for Indian tribes to the current generation. Entitled "Simple Gifts and Rich Symbols," it records changes in church services and the vest­ments and articles ofthe Mass over the years. The exhibit, including charcoal rubbings, photographs, artifacts and documents, focuses on the contrast between the austerity ofthe earliest missionary services in the original log cabin and the colorful splendor of celebrations today in Sacred Heart Church. The Observer 
Gerald L.Jones,professor ofphysics, andJohnJ. Kozak, professor ofchemistry at the University ofNotre Dame will share the first annual award for outstanding research announced by Sigma XI chapter on the campus. The announcement was made at a joint din­ner meeting for members ofthe honorary scientific research society of North America and the Indiana Academy of Science on the campus April 21. The two were cited for their study of the critical behavior of the Yvon-Born-Green integral equation for fluids as analyzed by a moment expansion which yields a nonlinear differen­tial equation accurately describing the long-range correlations. The Observer 
The new St. Mary's librarywill be available for 
tours during commencement weekend for seniors and their parents, according to Mary Ann O'Donnell, Director of Student Activities. The new S7 million facility was to be completed by April 1, but construction on the library is still underway, about one month be­hind schedule. The move to the new building is planned forJune 2. No special collections have been obtained for the new library, but the staff will continue to acquire new books. The Observer 
House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill jr. 
demanded yesterday that President Reagan "stop passing the buck" .and agree to change his economic program so a budget compromise can be worked out. But as negotiators for the White House and Congress resumed private talks later in the day, Republicans and Democrats, O'Neill included, held out little hope for agreement. "At this point I don't know 2hat you can do," O'Neill, OMass., told repor­ters. "He (Reagan) refuses to admit there's any failure in the program he brought forth." O'Neill's comments l!ppeared to be part of an 
effort by the White House and Democrats to be in a position to blame each other if the talks collapse. But several hours later, after meeting privately with Democratic House leaders, O'Neill summoned reporters to a second news conference and said his negotiators would present a revised budget proposal to the White House when the talks resumed later in the day. -AP 
Alfred Hitchcock's movie "The Birds" 
didn't bother Mary Elliott until the robins started pecking at the windows ofher two-story, brick home in Indianapolis. "Now Idream about that movie," she said yesterday. "It's Hitchcock rides again." Mrs. Elliott and her husband,). William "Bill" Elliott, 73, are stumped by the attacks on their windows, both upstairs and downstairs, by the pesky robins. And it's not that the Elliotts don't like birds. They keep on hand two birdbaths, two bird feeders and 25 pounds of 
sunflower seed. -AP 

Wednesday, April28, 1982-page 2 

Scheduling woes 
Last week Saint Mary's students participated in the semi-annual scheduling process. Aside from general groaning about closed classes, students consistently seemed to find fault with some aspects ofthe procedure itself. 
The scheduling method used at Saint Mary's is benefi­cial because it allows students to choose, to a large de­gree, the time and professor desired for each class (as is also true at Notre Dame). In this regard, the method far surpasses other forms of scheduling. At very few col-tween groups should also be evaluated and possibly in­leges, in fact, are students allowed such freedom in creased. 
planning their schedules. Several students noted that some department 
As practiced at Saint Mary's, however, there are a chairmen exited as soon as most of their cards were number of drawbacks inherent in the procedure that gone. This should not be the case. A representative from prevent it from achieving full potential as a superior each department should remain to answer questions for form ofscheduling. those students having scheduling difficulties. It is the 
First, scheduling is traditionally located on the upper responsibility of each department to remain available floor of Angela Athletic Facility. This is a poor location until the last student has scheduled. for the process because there is simply not enough There are also some problems with course offerings space for students to freely move around. Moving the themselves. Some courses designed to fulfill the college tables to the lower level ofAngela would triple the floor writing proficiency (the ever-elusive "W"), for ex­~pace available while scheduling. In addition, this im-ample, are reserved for freshmen. Upperclassmen who 
) rovement would leave the upper level ofAngela open still need their "W" should take priority over incoming tor students waiting in line. .,1 freshmen. No student 
Based on a concept for-JI1/{I{/N&f7M[', _/ previously unable to get a mally known as "arena PAf?fl£5, y desired "W" course should scheduling," _this process 'ROAVf/(IPS, t/' be denied it because he is works best m an arena-p V' not a freshman. situation. The tables should 5L[£ • eM h. Finally, Notre Dame stu­
0

be placed in a ring, allowing CLAS5t5 •·· · __,-; dents are allowed to the lines to form toward the ---......_ schedule at the same time as center of the scheduling Saint Mary's students. This area. This would obliviate gives NO students an ad-the line congestion present vantage over Saint Mary's in the present system. students who schedule later. 
In addition, the schedul----As members of the college, ing occurs at a time that is til Saint Mary's students inconvenient for many stu-----. . ·x··.:;'\;'-.:.""A-~;hould be given priority 
dents. 4 p.m. scheduling of--· .; ;\ ·~.;;~:-:~;;; :>ver NO students in class 
:·~~,. ;;::.!!-.. '>-r~f;.· I . ten means interrupting an ·~ '-'~!~·!f'-!.;V" se ecuon. afternoon class in order to .· >~.., ':(\ V.···~· get to Angela to wait in line. "'~ •·· ~~~k • .. ; ~A."f"11\{#7.;;· While containing many Evening scheduling, while ,..,;<,I//' ~ .~!?;~;, /~~fJ.~S1' flaws, the scheduling perhaps a hindrance for ~~~ffi£~;t:'.t,Y~~~"J#;.~!~~ utilized at Saint Mary's some, would tend to incon-<. ""~~, -'"'··-~~'It; should not be dismissed. It is venience far fewer students simply because there are valuable and may very well be the best form ofschedul­relatively few evening classes. ing available. No other format would allow students as As for the paperwork ofthe process, the day and time much choice in determining their own schedules. The of the class should be printed on each card along with system should be examined, however, and improve­the other descriptive information. A student's final ments be made accordingly. Student imput in the form schedule may differ greatly from the tentative schedule. ofa survey would unveil additional suggestions. As long Many scheduling conflicts are not discovered until later as the scheduling process is based on a solid working because the student has no record of the classes she foundation, there is always room for improvement. eventually ends up in. A chart of closed classes should be constantly updated and posted at each department table. This is an essential factor in this method of scheduling. Charts at The views expressed in the Inside column are the each table would not only aid the students in planning, views of the author, and do not necessarily represent but also decrease the number in the lines and ultimately the views ofThe Observeror its editorial board. speed the entire scheduling process. Many students complain that the alphabetized list of 
Observer notes.______, 
scheduling times is ignored by the coordinators. 
If you have any pertinent information of relevanceMoving the scheduling to the lower level would allow to the Notre Dame community that you would like toadditional space to organize the waiting groups. More see printed, The Observer asks that you please give us a care should be taken that the previously-announced call at 239-5303. Thank-you.
groups are allowed in together and as close to the 

-~Thel:lbserver 
SUMMER STORAGE SPACE 
Special discount for :NDISMC students 
Design Editor ........ ...... Monica "last night 
(5 x 10 space $18.50 per month) 
forever" Guwe Design Assistant............. Joe "Nice catch'' Flowers 
CALL 259-0335 to RESERVE SPACE 
Layout Staff.....•........... ... As usual; no one. Typesetters ........Jim MacLennan 
SELF LOCK STORAGE OF MCKINLEY
Tom MacLennan News Assistant .... Michele Dietz Copy Editors .................Joe Musemici 
816 East Me Kinley
Features Layout..... ..... Tari Brown Sports Copy Editor ............ Dave Dziedzic 
Mishawaka 
Typist............ . .............. Betsy Porter Laura Degnan 
Security Patrol Checks 
Surrounded by U.S. marshalsand wearing a 
bulletproof vest, John W. Hinckley Jr. went on trial in Washington, 
D.C. 
Tuesday for attempting to assassinate President Reagan. As jury selection began, the government's chief prosecutor indicated that Reagan, himself, may be called to testify. "There will be testimony about him or you will hear testimony from him," said Assistant U.S. Attorney Roger M. Adelman. "I will leave it at that." Judge Barrington 

D. 
Parker said he was looking for a jury that t is "free of bias, free of prejudice, free ofopinion." To that end, he questioned prospective members closely. Twelve jurors and six alternates will be chosen in a process that may take the rest ofthe week. A90-member panel was called for the initial screening process. -AP 


CoolToday.High in upper SO's to low 60's. Clear and cool tonight. Low in mid to upper 30s. Tomorrow increasingclouds. Cool with highs in upper 50's to low 60's. -AP 
NDDayEditor .......Joe "again"" Musemici SMC Day Editor............... Toni Rutherford Ad Design ............................... John & Corby Photographer ............................ Rudy Perez Guest Appearances.... Mike and his paper Orti and his multiple copies Quard and his girl Ed and his scar Marilyn and NOT her art project 
The Observer (USPS 598 9201 1s published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays except dur1ng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys Col· lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchase,j for $25 per year t$15 per semester( by wr1t1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d ill Notre Dame Jna,ana 46556 
Be on the. 

Snite museum of Att Student GClllety Committee 
Be one of the powers that be! 
Applications and information available atthe museum, 10-4pm Tuesday through Friday. call 239-5466 
------~~-------------------------~·-­
The Observer Wednesday, April28, ~ 982-page 3 
Impending attack? 
Britain-warns ofusingforce 
( AP) -Britain warned yesterday that military force may be the only way to retake the Falkland Islands. Argentina said it had learned the British may attack in 24 to 48 hours, ordered foreign correspondents from a key port ami reportedly told 
Islands within  the  next  24  to  48  
hours.  He  disclosed  no  other  in­ 
formation.  

Secretary ofState Alexander M. Haig Jr. not to return to Buenos Aires. 
Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher told the House of Commons in Lon· don that "military pressure" now ap· pears to be the only way to dislodge Argt·ntine troops from the Falklands. She warned that "time is faM running out" for a pcat:·cful settlement of the 2S~day-uld crisis. 
ller tough statements and a news blackout on the British armada's operations tor the t1rst time in the t:·risis bolstered speculation that the task force, lashed by worsening win· tcr weather oil' the Falklands, may soon launch an assault on the South Atlantic colony seized by Argentina April 2. 
Argentine Foreign Minister Nicanor Costa Mendez told the Or­
N.D.life 
Murday discusses questionnaires 
By CAROL CAMP  spoke to student leaders, gathering  ercise, which requires participants  
.\'tuffReporter  their ideas and suggestions. He then  to  rank  factors  influencing  the  
compiled this information into a sur­ quality of transportation, food, stu­ 
According  to  former  Student  vey which  was  distributed to two  dent/town relationships, and other  
Body  President  Don  Murday,  the  hundred  individuals  through  the  areas in order of importance. The  
deadline for returning the question­ members  of  the  Hall  Presidents'  second half of the survey consists of  
naires concerning the quality of life  Council.  one  hundred  and  fifty  true-false  
at Notre Dame is today.  In Murday's view, the response to  statements, the results of which can  
This latest survey represents the  this survey  was "tremendous." He  be compared to responses made at  
culmination of a series of surveys  explained  that  the  final  question­ other universities.  
and questionnaires which have been  naire was based upon the results that  Murday explained that the survey  
distributed to Notre Dame students,  were given in the survey which was  consists of two parts ­ one pertain­ 
faculty members, and administrative  distributed to the HPC. The survey  ing strictly to conditions at  Notre  
personnel.  The  study  of  factors  results,  which  are  now  being  Dame, and the other a more general  
influencing social life at Notre Dame  compiled, are based upon the par­ survey  because  "We  want  to  
began this past February, when Mur­ ticipants'  responses  to  a  two-part  evaluate  Notre  Dame  as  a  com­ 
day's brother Dave, a psychologist at  questionnaire.  The  first  series  of  munity in and ofitsett: as well as with  
the  University  of South  Carolina,  questions is a needs-assessment ex- other universities.  Also,  we  often  
compare ourselves to other univer·  
Hesburgh continues  sities." He added, "The survey is impor­tant because it is an evaluation of  

ganization of American States in Washington his government ha~ received information that British naval forces may attack the Falkland 
Argemine military authorities gave foreign journalist~ 48 hours to leave Comodoro Rivadavia, I,200 miles south ofBuenos Aires. The city has been an important staging point filr shipment of troops and supplies to the Falkland Islands. Unconfirmed reports indicated similar measures were taken in the southern Ar· gentine cities ofRio Gallegos and Us­huaia. 
The British dependency of South Georgia, 800 miles east of the Falklands, was seized April 3, and Britain said its marin<."S captured South Georgia and 194 Argentines Sunday and Monday. The Argentine junta said, however, that specially trained marines called "The Lizards" continued resistance on the island. 
Mrs. Thatcht-r said Britain still was prepared to negotiate a settlement, 

but warned "unless we bring 
military pressure to bear, the Ar· 
gentines are unlikely to withdraw 
from the Falklands." 
She rejected an appea t Ifrom Mic­
hael Foot, leader of the opposition 
Labor Party, that she send Foreign · 
Secretary Francis Pym to New York tor talks with U.N. Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar. 
Perez de Cuellar on Monday ap· pealed to both sides to halt any es­calation of the crisis and comply "immediately" with U.N. Security Council resolution S02 of April 3 calling for a cessation of hostilies and an Argentine withdrawal. 
Clearly impatient with Argen­tina's refusal to pull out of the Falklands, Mrs. Thatcher said sen­ding J>ym to New York would "not achieve anything." 
As Laborites yelled "warmonger," she said Perez de Cuellar "should address his remarks to the junta in Argentina." 

how Notre Dame acts as a com­munity -it will tell us what our strengths arc, as well as our


ElSalvadordiary 
weaknesses. Once we pinpoint our wt·aknesses, we can work on them." 
Editor's note: Thefollowing is the STATES OFFICIAL OBSERVER last of a series of excerpts taken DELEGATION finally, Murday stressed the im· from the diary of University Presi­"fMarch 29, 1982 portancc of distinguishing this sur­
I 
dent Theodore Jlesburgb during his "The official United States delega­vcy from the one which was 
I 
recent trip to E'l Salvmlor as part of tion to the March 28, 1982, El Sal· recently conducted by the campus 
I
tbe United Stutes official obsen•er vador Constituent Assembly study group, which cxamined stu­
I
team for tbe Salt•mloran elections. elections, having personally visited a views the and
dent on amount 
I
number of polling areas around the 
quuality of social space on campus 
I
At 1.2::\0, we went out to tht· Am· country, believes these elections by stating: "This survt·y will be a bassador's residerKc to meet with were fair and free. judgement of the overall environ­I about ..j') of the leaders of the six "One of our members, Dr. mem that we live in -i! will p;trtks involvl'd in yestl'rday's cit-e· Howard Pt·nniman, an elections ex· provide us with a broad spectrum tion. J>ranically C\'ei')'lme was there. pert who has partkipated in some with whid1 we can work." He also l'XCl'pt Prcsidt•tll Duarte. lie did -tS difit:rent elections, observes that urged all those who have: not send his son .1s a .,uhMitute. and I yesterday's election was one of the returned the survey to do so no latc:r suspt:Tl he had his own rt:asons for See DIARY, page 4 than today. not coming All of our group brokt.· up Ml that we t.·oulll spread ourselves ································~ as widely as possible among the 
: Do you like to DANCE? : 
various factions and try to get several of them talking to each other : Do you WQnt to GO OUT : again. Things had bt·come fairly hot during the nmpaign. : with thQt speciQiperson? : 
At odd momt·nts during the morn~ 
: Do wQnt to GO CRAZY :
ing, we had bet·n working on a press statement which we delivered to a • before finQis? • large: numbt·r of the media corps at 
: Do you WQnt to end the yeQr :
tht· Camino lkal tiJllowing the lunch. 
: w~hQBANG? : 
I rt·gret to say that the media were not exactly jumping up and down at this point commending our state~ ment because I really believe tht·y : If so, GET READY for the : would have enjoyt·d it more if we could have reported a lot of fraud 
: GO CRAZY DANCE :
and complete failure of the system. As one of them said, "Good nt.·ws is not news." A t.·urious point of view. : FridQy April 30th 9:30-1:00 : Several of our memht·rs wt·re rather tart with the mt·dia once this at· 
• 
: in the ChQUtQuquQ BQIIroom •: 
titude wa., evident. particularly Ted BriAAs of the ~tatt· Department and Congressman Bob Livingston of 
• • I 
I 
Nt·w Orlt-ans. : Spons by theN DStudent Union : 
S7A71:'MHNT Hl' TJIE UNITEIJ 
•..................................• I I 
--------------------------~~ ~· 
3001 U.S. 31 (Y2 mile south of KMART) 

I 
I

~ ~ 
ID!re NjB 1\lumni 1\.ss.oriati.on '~est'nt.s 
The Senior 

Alumni Picnic 
&aturbay. !layl, lLJ:J0-12:30, at ~ltpan <atnur 

Hot Dogs Beer 
Snacks .tlrrt 1\lumni Utlu~ ~tprrsrntatiuf's wqo 
urill !7aur information on rlubs anb ritirs for 
•

stnt.ors 
I 


I
All ~~niors 
I 
I

No nbmissi.on 
I I I ,I 
~ ~ 
·­

The Observer Wednesday, April 28, 1982 -page 4 
... Diary 


These pyramids are featured as a part ofthe Student Thesis Ex­hibit in the Snite Museum Gallery. (Photo by Rudy Perez) 


N.J I N.Y. 
AFEW SEATS ARE-STILL AVAILABLE FOR THE END OF YEAR BUS· BUS STOPS IN EAST BRUNSWICK AND PORT AUTHORITY,N. Y.C. 
Forinfo. call John 8739 
..............................................................................................................................., Summer Work. 
N.D. students averaged $4,200 last summer. 
Interviews Today, April28 
1pm or4pm -Rm. 421 AdBldg. or at 7pm -1160 'shag 
Please he prompt 
BID 

We need a few hard workers 
SOUTHWESTERN 

.............................................................................................................................. 


Movin'out? 
RENT A RYDER TRUCK 
If you·re 18 or over you can rent a Ryder truck to use locally or on a one-way (rent-It-here. leave-it-there) trip to another city 
Compare costs before you make plans for mov1ng at the end of the semester With a truck you can take along your stereo, 10-speed, clothes. all your stuff. and still have plenty of room for one or two other people and their things. so you can share the costs Compare that to a plane ticket Or even a bus. 
Rent from the best-maintarned. most dependable fleet 1n ll~ 'j the world -Ryder The best truck money can rent ....a ... 
~ ~-----------------------·-~ 
t:t'''~o~~ ••,, 1QO! QFF anyoneway
~'-~~;il 10 rental card rate with this COUPON and your Student FacultyiD 
continuedfrom page 3 
most massive expressionsofpopular 
will he has ever seen. 
"The tremendous turnout, per­
haps over one million, underscores 
the sense of commitment of the 
people. 
"Over and over again we heard 
the people say, 'We are voting for 
peace and an end to the violence. 
We believe this election can be a 
new beginning for this country.' 
"It is difficult to express the patience and purpose with which the Salvadoran people turned out to vote, enduring long hours in line to cast their ballots and, in some in­stances, attempts by the insurgents to scare them off. The election clear­ly is a repudiation of the guerillas' claim that they represent the will of the Salvadoran people. 
"In general the election process itself was orderly and peaceful. The voting procedures adhe red to rules established by the Central Elections Commision. There were poll watchers from at least two parties at each table we visited, and the elec­tion officials worked seriously at their responsiblities, both in processing the voters and later in counting the ballots. We did see some minor technical problems during the day, but we saw no in­dication of fraud. We believe they had no influence on the outcome of the elections. 
"Because of the threats of violence during the voting, the Central Elections Commission made the decision to concentrate the pol­ling places in some 300 sites. This did cause some confusion. By the early hours of the morning, there were long lines all over the country. For example, in Santa Tecla, a sub­urb ofSan Salvador, we estimate that some 10,000 people were standing in line to vote at 9 a.m. We were con­cerned that not all would have a chance to vote. But by the end ofthe day, election officials assured us that most ofthe voters were attended to. 
"The Salvadoran people have said in overwhelming numbers that they want peace and an end to the violence. 
"We hope that the sense of com­mitment and cooperation that the voters demonstrated yesterday at the polls will be reflected in the ef­forts of the leadership of the Con­stituent Assembly that they have elected. The people have asked for a new beginning and they most definitely deserve it 
Following our news conference, we were able to arrange another 

FOR INFORMATIQ\J CALL 277-3550 
through June 30, 1982 
fi:====!:iJ,,___.J!!~!'~~..!~.!.!:!'~~,!r~~:!.·_ 
YDER TRUCKRENTAL 
2715N. BENDIXDR South Bend 
news conference with the cam­pesino leaders, mainly heads of various unions who are brought to­gether in an organization called the Union Popular Democratica which means the Popular Democratic Uni­on (of union leaders). This is a very strong group, non-political in the sense that they are not a party, but characterized by very tough leaders. 
They, too, t were rather tart with the media, telling them that they did not join with the guerillas because they did not believe in violence, that they did not become a political party because they were going to lean on any or all political parties that tried to turn back land reform, human 
rights efforts, and anything else 
bearing on the economic and social 
well-being of this country in the 
future. 
I must admit to being more 
strongly impressed by them than 
with the various political leaders I 
have met, excluding Duarte and his 
associate, Julio Rey Prendes, the for­
mer mayor of this city. I believe the 
Christian Democratic Party made a 
mistake in not putting some ofthese 
people up as delegates to the new Assembly that was voted in yester­day. 
Back to the hotel where Ernesto 
Sol came by to say good-bye and 
leave some gifts. I then sent a Notre 
Dame hat over to President Duarte 
as a kind of consolation prize. We 
went to the Ambassador's residence 
for final cocktail party with all ofthe 
staffpeople and those who had been so helpful to us during our briefvisit here. _ 
Up at dawn a t gam for Mass and a 
quick breakfast before going to the 
a~~ort. Just as we were leaving the 
dmmg room, the head of the Elec­
... Hiss 
continuedfrom page 1 
through the efforts of television reporting and "courageous people who decided that the best defense against a demagogue is ridicule." 
While obviously bitter towards McCarthy, Hiss does not credit the initiation of the era to him. Richard Nixon was responsible for the begin­ning of the Communist search, he said. "Nixon used Red-naming tac­tics in all his campaigns until the 
, period faded, and then he disas­sociated himself from it." However, Hiss said,"lt is appropriate to give an ugly period the name of of an ugly man." 
Although he feels that McCar­thyism has recently been revived, Hiss is optimistic that it will not again become "an aberration on American History." The increase tion Commission, jorge Bustamante, came in with the results as ofan hour ago ( 6 a.m.). They were very profes­sionally prepared by computer, and now it appears that about a million and a quarter people voted on Sun­day, out of a possible voter pool of 

1,400,000. 
There were even reports ofvoting 

from Usulutan, where we had been 
unable to land at on Sunday (even 
though we did land at Berlin on the 
border of Usultan and there was 
heavy voting there). We all congrat­
ulated Bustamante on an excellent 
election. 
So it ends. Now we must hope and pray that El Salvador may make the most of this hinge of history and try to accomplish politically what the people indicated they wanted so badly. 
F h


res man places in math exam 
James Roche, a Notre Dame freshman in electrical engin­eering from St. Paul, Minn., finished 22nd out of 2043 college students across the nation in the Putnam Math Exam given Dec. 5 at Notre 
Dame. Roche found out his place­ment two weeks ago. Three other students from Notre 
· Dame took the test. Jim Leous a sophomore from Tonawanda', N.Y., finished in the top 500. 
and sophistication of public educa­tion will, he feels, impede the move­ment. 
Taking questions from the audience, Hiss touched briefly upon the Yalta agreements saying that they must be viewed "in terms of what the U.S. got. I know of nothing that was given up." 
He expressed the opinion that the Communist party was more than likely never involved in espionage due to its small size. "Probably about one-third of the party was CIA agents that had infiltrated it," he laughed. 
When questioned about his own 

conviction, Hiss stated that there 
was not ample time to discuss it and 
recommended published accounts 
of the trial to interested students. 
An open reception was held tollowing the lecture. 
The Observer news 0€paRtm€nt 
IS aCC€ptln(j applicatiOnS roR 
COpyebJtOR 
ano' 

bay ebltOR. 
th€S€ aR€ palO POSitiOns. 
beaOllne: WeOnesOay at 5pm. 
~ 

Wednesday, April28, 1982-page 5





Editorials 

In American political debate, there arc two distinct poles, conser­vativism ami liberalism. In the past, the terms were often glibly applied on the basis of party affiliations, regardless of actual beliefs and policies. Today such labeling is often a sore point among politicians trying to avoid the connotations of being indentified as a certain type. Hence, neo-conservative, neo-liberal, New Right, Committee for Economic Democracy (a group with many 
"Socialist" policies), and many other such names and acronyms for politi­cal groups. 
Anthony Walton 
Outside Wednesday 

It's hard to tell who's a Democrat (what with the Boll Weevils, more Republican than Democrat) or who's a Republican (The Gypsy Moths defending "liberal" programs), and, as an added com­plication, liberals, at the moment, of­
ten have to "hide" their beliefs and 
policies behind a conservative 
facade and try to, as a friend of mine 
puts it, "out-Reagan Reagan." 
Such a facade is one of the 

problems with the so-called nco­
liberals. In many ways they are 
apologizing for their liberalism in an 
attempt to stem the Republican tide 

The case for liberalism 
and recapture the Democratic the list could go on ad infinitum; let achieve those goals. 
power base. Thi~ is both wrong and the point be made that very few Liberalism involves the inclusion 
unnecessary, because first of all, Americans can claim 1 to have ac­of all citizens into the political 
liberals have nothing to apologize hieved what they have without the process, giving them a voice in how 
for, and secondly (and this is already help of the federal government. they live. It says all people have a 
apparent and will be more so come They now want to protect what they right to have a say in the conduction 
November), conservatives are in for have accumulated, which is under­of their lives. Right now, that is not 
a rude awakening as the traditional standable, hut it is no excuse for the case. In our society, outcomes 
Democratic constituency reunites "pulling up the ladder" on those not are determined by economic and 
in a reaction (how ironic) to Reagan yet aboard the ship. class distinctions, not hy choice and 
and his cronies. And that's the point of American ambition. If certain members of 
Many conservatives and their liberalism. Liberalism is as opposed society start out as property owners 
policies are not only terribly short­to sloven bureaucracy as is conser­while others begin as unskilled 
sighted toward the future; they also vatism, and is less selective about laborers, who has the better life 
have terribly short memories which bureaus need to be improved prospect? There is no way to justify 
concerning the past. When con­(i.e. the Pentagon, the biggest such inequity and liberalism at­
servatives talk of the current money-waster of them all). Mistakes tempts to rectify such injustice 
"economic malaise" they seem to be have been made over the years while also allowing for the personal 
ignoring the malaise of fifty years (many of them by Republican liberty ofan individual. 
ago, the Depression. The Great Keynesians like Nixon) but it cannot Liberalism presupposes as a Depression. Those much maligned be assumed that the ideal was com­necessary and noble goal ofa society ."socialistic" policies got the country pletely wrong or without major the constant striving for the allevia­out of the mess, and contributed to success. tion of the suffering of the least ad­one of the best 25-year economic Liberalism is often mistakenly vantaged in that society. A popular cycles in the history of Western (and maliciously) defined as explanation of liberal egalitarianism civilization. "throwing money at problems." can be found in John Rawls' A 
And that's one of the problems; (Which would make our current Theory ofjustice, and one of Rawls' many of today's "conservatives" President the biggest liberal of them principal points is that a society were FOR and Kennedy Democrats all, since he seems to think that all should do that which would benefit (or the children thereof) who got the Pentagon needs is green. ) This the least advantaged, even if it does "rich" off of Democratic policies. misconception of liberalism is not benefit others higher on the Those citizens got educated on the fueled by the initial liberal concern scale. This cannot be overruled by Gl Bill, bought houses in the suburbs with justice and attempts at a just any kind ofutilitarian "greatest gain" on FHA and VA subsidized society. Liberalism is not "bleeding calculation; those on the bottom mortgages, travelled to those sub­heart compassion" (though I never must be aided first. It can be thought urbs on federally built expressways, thought compassion was a bad thing, oflike this: who is more deserving of educated their children with federal especially in a "Christian" nation) aid, those already comfortable or grants and loans, started and but rather, it is built on certain as­those uncomfortable? strengthened their businesses with sumptions of how all men were Another complication involves SBA loans and tax exemptions, and meant to live, and how to best the principle of justice-in­acquistion, the idea that if holdings were acquired justly, they can now be held justly. In our society, much of the massive wealth (Rockefeller, Hunt, Morgan, Vanderbilt, etc.) was acquired unjustly, which further il­lustrates the need for some kind of attempt at equalization or redistribution. As a matter of fact, very few white males (the dominant economic group) could realistically say that they would be in the same 
position ifthere were true and open competition, because many worthy competitors were denied entrance into the game. This is the rationale behind "welfare," affirmative action, and other liberal programs. Those denied equality should be in some way compensated. 
Judged on these criteria, American liberalism has been suc­cessful. Much poverty has been erased, and many more citizens have been accepted into the mainstream of American life. But that does not mean that there is not much more to do, and that is the chore of liberal policy in the future. Large segments of the population are still dis­enfranchised and exploited. Women, Blacks, Hispanics, Native Americans and other groups deserve a slice of the economic pie that they do not yet have, and the upper classes cannot consolidate against them. It is in the best interests of a society to be just, because that will insure harmony over the long run, instead ofcreating adversaries. 
P.O.BoxQ 
Speech anddebate success 
Dear Editor: 
Notre Dame does indeed have 

debate and speech teams. In fact, 
we have a winning record. Overall, 
Notre Dame won <; l debate 
rounds and lost 29 in our first full 
year as members of the Cross­
Examination Debate Association. 
We also received third place school in the Northeast quadrant of the United States based on the number of debates won. Notre Dame did well at individual 
tournaments, too. Cecilia Serna and I were the first place team at Miami of Ohio in January while Kathleen McGarvey and Hubert McGinley took second, dosing out the tournament. 

Cecilia Serna and Paul Komyatte took tirst place at the University of San Francisco's tournament in February. 
Since no members of the team will graduate this spring, we look forward to an even more success­ful season next year. 
Notre Dame also cometes suc­cessfully in the National Debate Tournament debate and in in­dividual speech events. Alan Targgart, for example, qualified for the national tournament in both extemporaneous speaking and communication analysis events. 
Katie Hilton Debate am/ Speech Council 



Not just au revoir 
I've been told that I should get oft" my enigma and somehow earnestly demonstrate that I am human. After doing a cartoon strip for the last five years, I can truly say that humanity is something I have aspirations for. 

Michael Molinelli 
No Title 
When I brought up my first car­
toons to The Obsert•er early in my 
freshman year, the editors were 
receptive. No one held my sloppy 
technique against me. No one said 
that the cartoons weren't enough 
like Doonesbury. If they had been so 
concerned about being professional 
I would never have gotten what 1 
really wanted ...a chance. 
After the opportunity was offered to me, I had to deliver. At the time, no one expected there to be a car­toon strip about Notre Dame in The 
( Jbsert'er. I was able to grow and im­prove without critics breathing down my neck demanding perfec­tion. 
Eventually, towards the end of my freshman year, the editors decided to get me in daily ...a bold experi­ment. However, it was still some time before the strip really got noticed. That seems such a short time ago. 
Now I find myself about to graduate. I've been offered and have accepted a summer internship with The Cincinnati Inquirer to do political cartoons. It's a chance to see if I like the cartooning biz and if the cartooning hiz likes me. Come September, I could he a cartoonist or an architect. I don't know yet. But I've got what I wanted ...a chance. 

One of the most common ques­tions that I was asked when I first started the strip was "What does 'Molarity' mean?" "Molarity" is a real word with a real definition. That definition and why I selected it are unimportant. My hope was that the word "Molarity" would eventually take on meaning in each of you. My hope was that when asked what "Molarity" meant each of you woud be able to give your own answer. Af­ter all, "Molarity" is nothing if it 
means nothing to you. 

Despite some eHthusuastic promotion by Juniper Press, I have never been a campus personality. All the personality has been in the 
from me, I've known me most of my 
life; I'm not special. We all have 
those voices inside ofus which make 
us unique to ourselves. We all are 
shallow. We all have great depth. We 
all pursue interests. Mine just hap­
pen to demand attention. 
I realize, though, that I will never again be in such a unique situation. Never again will I do a strip for such a close community. Never again will I be able sit in the dining halls and listen anonymously to comments about that day's cartoon. Never again will I enjoy such intimate and immediate contact with my readers. I almost feel as if 1 have been adopted. 
As a goodbye letter, this might lack the usual sticky sentimentality. But it was never my intention to say "goodbye." Just "Thank you, Notre Dame." 
-,he 0/Jiat tr 1~ an independent new~paper publ1~hcd by the ~tudent~ of tht• 
/:"t/1/CII" Ill ( h11•{ \lidl.ll"l \lonl-. /lt/Sli/I'SS lft/1/tl,t:l'l" Tom Aidlo lln1n"r"ty of Notre Il,1me du I.Jl .md Saint MJry\ College. It does not nl'\t'S~Jrdy 
I/ell/elgin,~ l:"tli/111" th .111 \ l"f 1\t"rl-.nllll"~ ( clllI rul/er l·.rK ~dnal1 relied the poii<W> of the admumtr.lliOil of c1ther imt1tut10il. The news~~ report· 
/:.\"I'C/1/1/'1' \I'll'S f-"t/i/111" 1\.l"lli l·lull .lt/t'I'I"/IS/118 .\tt/1/tl_t:l'l" <·lin'< l"Tn ed J\ .l<<UrJtely and J> ohJt'ltlvdy as pm~1ble. Ed1tonJ.Is repre~cnt the opinion of 
\ \/( \c·u·., l:"t/i/111" \l.irg.ln"l h "nu,,. l'rc•tfuc //Ill/ ll<llltl.ill'l" \l.1ura .\lurph~ J mJJunty of the Ld1turial Hoard. ( .o.nmcntarie,, opinions and letters are the views < hn' "\;tTdl•·, ( 1/"i"llltlfillll .llcllltlgl'l" 1{,1\ lnglm''"''"'"' l:"cli/111"
ol the1r author'. ( olurnn ~('J.l"t" " JvadJhle to all memhcrs ot the <omrnunlt}·. and lcllllll"ltlls l:"t/1/111" l'.llll \ll"! •IIIII \ )".\/1'11/S lltlllt/,~1'1. IIrun·< lal..lq the fr('{' express1on ol VJryang op11110ns on Latnpu), through letter~. i> enLOunged. l••ct/1/l"t'S l:"tll/111" L1n 1\nl\\ 11 1'1111/11 1-dt/111" l<.ll lid lllourll hmndc:d Novemhc:r 5. 1966
P_O_Hox Q, Notre.• D:une, IN 'i6SS6 (219) 2_~9-S:\05 

---------·-----...._·----------­


~~S tl0 W C ~~iiiiSiiiiiEiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiWeiidniiesdiiayii,
Apiirilii28ii,lii982iiiiipiiageiii6 
Braun triumphs with Rosewicz's Card Index 
~------·------~ 
I
n my heart I'm holding the theatre 
by turns, son and lover, schoolboy
you are the play's living inter­which exists -in my soul the locutor, responsible to it and for it. and seducer, student and soldier, theatre of the future": Kazimierz To read the text and compare it husband and hospital patient, Braun quotes these words in his with what Braun and his cast have freedom fighter and philosopher, program-notes for his production of done with it is to realise that you dreamer and murderer, prisoner and The Card Index, a vital, funny, poig­have been witness to a triumph of poet -i.e.you or me or anyone -a nant, thought-provoking play by transformation, a magical metamor­poor little serious buffoon, fantasti­
Poland's leading contemporary phosis. And the play lends itselfper­cally rich yet possessed by the ob­playwright Tadeusz Rosewicz. Satur­fectly to his treatment. It begins with jects of his fantasies, active sufferer day night's performance at a bearded man in bed, poking his and suffering actor, subject whose 
O'Laughlin Auditorium involved head up from sheets spotted with actions are passions and object performers and audience alike in a blood, lifting his hand and staring at whose passions are actions. And by it, as ifdiscovering it for the first 
the end, we are reminded, perhaps, time. Lying next to him, her head un­
ofthe last line of Keats' "Ode to aRichard Burns der the topsheet (but not, thankful­Nightingale": "Fled is that music 
-ly, her long, golden hair) is a young 
Do I wake or sleep~" Like life itself, woman. Enter a pairofnewlyweds at 
and like all good arr, the play is theatre review the bed's foot: the bridegroom ad­polysemous: it ha~ no single dresses the bearded fellow as his 
meaning, but is richly capable of many interpretations.
vision of that future. Braun is Direc­son, but keeps getting his name Ifthere is any flaw, it is that we do
wrong and having to be corrected Wroclaw, Poland, and Visiting by his bride. Meanwhile, the golden­not respond to the play's specific Professor in the Department of tressed sleeping partner squawks 
tor ofthe Contemporary Theatre in 
Polish references, which are lost not Communication and Theatre this from under the sheets:"It's time you 
so much because ofdefects in tex­semester. Working not with profes­went, Mr. President ...the meeting tual translation or direction but be­
sional actors, but with studentsfrom isn't for another two hours, but you cause such innuendoes do not travel 
ought to be prepared." well under any circumstances. MostNotre Dame and Saint Mary's, some notable, though, is rhe fact that ,
ofwhom have never performed in As an example ofthe play's proce­through Braun's masterly direction,
public before, he has brought to this dure, this opening scene is typical. 
all the students raking part reached
campus a quality ofdrama unlikely Immediately, several possible inter­down into levels of integnty and
to be paralleled anywhere else in the pretations occur, each one ofwhich conviction in themselves froml Tnited States this year. l have not ex­flouts all the others. A man in bed which it is unt'ikely that they would
perienced anything so exciting with his secretary: does this mean have been able to draw otherwise.
theatrically since julian Beck's and the play is a social satire? Answer: Braun has the gift ofbringing out theJudith Malina'sliving Theatre in yes and no. Second, since nobody deepest humanness in hi!'> actors:Venice in 1965 and Le Theatre du can agree on the bearded man's humour, pathos, intelligc:nce,Soleil's 1789 at the London Round name, could the play be about beauty and grace:, and that "energy"
House in the early seventies. alienation, and lost or mistaken iden­which, in Blake's words, "is eternal
Braun's structuring of the tity? Answer: yes and no. Third, are delight." Mark Pizzato'~ perfor­
dramatic arena, combined with the couple at the bed's foot really mance, as the man in bed, com­
Rosewicz's implosion oflinear time the man's parents, so that the play manded by his combination of
in the play itself, makes convention­can be seen as a surrealistic explora­natural poise and under statement,
al terms like "audience participa­tion of the dichotomy between sub­firm gentleness and exuberance.
tion" seem hopelessly old-fashioned jectivity and objectivity, private and Mary O'Neal, in her various roles as
and inadequate. The play takes public? Again: yes and no. "The play same scene, but all thdr disjunctive from childhood, a fellow-partisan secretary, mi!>tress. interviewer and
place, ofcourse, "on stage." But is realistic and takes place in the present times occur simultaneously, from the resistance whom he shot squad sergeant, wa~ an equally
Braun puts the audience on stage present," Rosewicz states blandly in so that while each contradicts the by accident years ago, an pervading presence, and like Piz­
too, on two long tiers ofbenches his textual introduction. Is this "reality" of the others, each also eighteen-year old fraulein who has zato, showed herself capable ofen­which face each otheracross a large, ironic? Yes and no, again. For the paradoxically confirms all the stumbled into his apartment think­compassing a wide range, from n:ctangular space. At the centre of problem is, whose reality? And others, in a series ofinterlocking ing it a restaurant, a waiter-cum­sadness to slapstick. Other fine per­1his space is a bed, and the whole ac­whose present? Are bride and reciprocities which at one moment barber who turns out to be a formances came from Cath Tobin astion occurs on, in, under and around bridegroom the subjects we are may assume ghastly, nightmarish political interrogator, a female dog­the bittersweet ex-wife, Paul Clay as this bed. The fact that you are sitting supposed to identify with, speaking proportions and at the next can be trainer with a human dog, the dog­the dog and waiter, joe Dolan as theat somebody's bedside creates in­to their image ofa grown-up son, hilarious and absurd. man who alternately barks and talks father, partisan and surgeon, Lisatimacy-tinged, perhaps who in fact has not yet been con­So hilarity alternates with horror at him, a temptress in a sheet, an Graham as the dog-trainer, Richarddeliberately, with voyeurism. Whic­ceived, let alone born? Or are we and burlesque with heartbreak, but enormous effigy ofdeath, two giggly Lynch as the uncle and Richard Col­hever side ofthe bed you are on, the invited to experience the scene all the scenes are exciting visually angels, four darlek-like surgeons, a lis as the boy-scout and TV inter­"backcloth" you see on the other from the bearded fellow's and verbally, whether straight out of squad ofsexy bathing beauties who viewer. Before seeing thisside consists ofa row ofother perspective, who is dreaming, many the text or added by the director and apply their suntan lotion with the production, I had been told that
people like yourself. Result: you years later , _so to see his visitors cast: and eventually, all the charac­military precision ofa West Point Braun was considered one ofthe top
watch, but also watch yourself as his fantasy-images, ghosts from his ters find their way out ofthe author's passing-out parade, a panel ofex­ten theatrical directors in the world.
watching and being watched, doub­past appearing to him as in a (or the bearded hero's?) mental card aminers from the University ofAb­Now I know why.
ly detached but also doubly in­photograph? index, through a web ofneo­surdia, and a TV crew interviewing volved. In this way, you find yourself We never get answers to any of Becketian non-sequiturs which him for a chat-show. in a domain both extremely public these questions, only more ques­seems all the same to possess its own Who exactly he is, this man in bed and extremely private (and what is tions, and are left free by author and weirdly connected logic -ifonly with many names, and whether all 
the domain ofart itself -all art -if director to identify as subjects with one could crack the dream-code this is really happening to him, or he Three more performances are it is not just that?). So you become any ofthe characters we wish. One that is its key. The man in bed is (like us) is dreaming or awake, we scheduled, Apri/30, May 1 and 2 at more than just a member ofan character's present time may not be visited by, among others: his ex­never find out for certain. All we 
8 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
audience, more than just a spectator: the present time 0fanother in the wife, an uncle, a boy-scout friend know by the end is that he has been, 

'T"he Michiana New Music En­
.1 semble, a group ofprofessional musicians who specialize in the per­formance of music written in this century, will present their dubut concert tomorrow, at 8 p.m. in Moreau Hall's Little Theatre at Saint Mary's College. Tickets for the con­cert are S2.50 for the general public and S 1 for students. 
Ofspecial interest on tomorrow's program is George Crumb's "Voice of the Whale" for electric flute, electric cello, and electric piano. In this work, inspired by sounds made by whales, Crumb achieves ex­traordinary sounds with traditional 
chamber instruments. 
The Crumb piece will be followed by the premiere performance of "Double Octandre," a new work by local composer David Barton. The piece was written specifically for performance by the Michiana New Music Ensemble, and contains con­scious reference to Varese's 

"Octandre," another work on the 
evening's program. 
Also included will be the "Blake 
Songs," ten poems by William Blake, 
set to music by English composer 
Ralph Vaughan Williams. This work, 
written for solo voice and oboe, will 
feature S. Caroline Knell, mezzo­
soprano. 
Thursday's concert will close with a performance of"Octandre," a masterpiece in twentieth--century repertoire by Edgard Varese. Writ­ten in 1924, this work exemplifies the compositional innovations which made Varese's music stand 
out as a forerunner ofelectronic music. 
Roger Briggs, assistant professor of music at Saint Mary's College, is tl'te Ensemble's founder and conduc­tor. A studentofSamuel Adler, Briggs holds a B.M. from Memphis State~ Universicy and a M.M. and 
Ph.D. in compostion from Eastman School of Music. In 1979, his work "Spirals," for solo piano, was premiered in Carnegie Recital Hall in New York City. Briggs joined the Saint Mary's faculty in 1978. 
Assistant professor ofmusic at IUSB, David K. Barton holds a Ph.D. in composition from the University ofCalifornia, Santa Barbara. Prior t~ joining the !USB faculty in 1976, Bar­ton taught at the University of California, Santa Barbara, and the College-Conservatory of Music, Uni­versity ofCincinnati. 
S. Caroline Knell, assistant profes­sor of music at Saint Mary's, has performed extensively as a recitalist and chamber musician as well as with orchestras and operas in the New York area and throughout the Midwest. She holds a B.A. in music education from Saint Olaf-College 
and a M.M. from Indiana University. 
~-----------------------------------~ 
The Observer Features Section 
Wednesday, April 28, 1982 -page 7 



Trivia Quiz XXV 
T
hc second year of the Observer the trivia quiz for another year with his group. Rock Trivia Quiz comcs to a a quiz describing how some popular 6. In late 1967, his plane crashed crashing halt today, and this week I music stars came to their end. Name into a lake in Wisconsin, killing him commcmoratc that fact appropriate· them. and members of his backup band. ly. But tlrst, herc arc thc answcrs to 1. Some controversy surrounded Only after his death was he able to last wn·k's hdated quiz (thanks to a the death of this soul great in late gain the commercial success he computer hrcakdown ). Part of thc 1964. He was shot by a hotel clerk af. deserved, with a number-one hit in duc 10 the "Who Am I?" is followed ter he allegedly attacked her. (She ~arty 196H. He wrote songs like hy the answcr. was convicted of"justifiabie "Respect" and "I Can't Turn You 
homicide.") Loose," which other artists made 
2. In the same year, 1964, a famous. country-and-western great was 7. After his death via plane crash
Tim tleely 
killed in a plane crash. However, he on September 20, I973, all three of left such a le~acy of unreleased his available albums appeared in the tracks that to this day his record top I 0 at the same time.
music 

company releases "new" records by H. He died in obscurity in 1975, him. Some of his fans do not realize one of the most distinctive lead sin­
I. Former memher of the he is dead, as he still gets mail from gers of the British Invasion. Over­Runaways, had a numher-one single admirers. shadowed because ofseveral fine and top-! 0 a!hum -JoanJett 3. During a I960 tour of Britain, a lead guitarists his group had, he 
.2. Writer of"Joy to the World," taxi carrying two rock stars crashed, probably as much as any ofthem was "No No Song," et at. without a hit of killing one and injuring the other responsible for their commercial his own -Hoyt Axton such that he never fully recovered. success. .3. Original lead singer ofJefferson Eventually he died in the early 9. Many, many rock stars have fal­

Capitol presents 
Airplane -Signe Anderson seventies. Name these two early len victim to drugs and/or alcohol. 
4. Session bassist who joined a rock-n-roll stars who gave us, One of them was a man considered 
hcavy-mctal hand-John Pauljones respectively, "Summertime Blues" by some as the greatest rock (of Led Zc:ppdin) and "Be-Bop-a-l.ula." guitarist ofall time. His actual cause 

reelrip-off 
<;. Monkee who left the group 4. The female lead singer of the ofdeath, however, was not an OD, hdorc thc hreakup -Peter Tork late-60s group Rotary Connection but asphyxiation. Well, folks, Capitol Records ,depending on point ofview) is that 
6. Responsible for the Monkees, and Iatc:r a solo act died ofcancer in I 0. And tlnally, one who mayhe has done it again. "The Beatles' Movie Medley," that 
Arc hies, etc., and their success -I979. In her only hig hit, a number­should have died, hut did not. He The same people who gave you almost irreverent artificially­was supposed to he on the plane that II tracks for the price of 14 on ear­
Don Kirshner one smash in early I975, she hits created montage that top---tO radio 
~.Auditioned for the Monkees hut probably the highest note ever hit carried Buddy Holly, The Big Bop­ly Beatles albums now give you has worn out, is not on this album. was rejectt·d, hecame a star in his on a number onc record. per, and Ritchie Valcns to their zero tracks for the price of 14 on As of now, you have to buy the 45 own right -Stephen Stills 5. In early I97H, he was fooling deaths in February of 1959, but he the latest Bcatlcs bastardization, to get it. 
Reel Music.

H. First Eagle to leave the hand -around with a gun and accidentally gave up his seat. lie has gone on to Like I said, this album could he a lkrnle l.eadon shot himself in the head. He was a become one oftoday's most popular lot better if legal prohlems could 
9. Two of me, one a Foreigner, one member ofa band that had gone I 0 country-and-western singers. he resolved and some stuff which in The Cla:-.h-Mkkjones years without anyone breaking appears in the movies hut not on

Tim tleely 

I0. Only original Doobie Brother ranks; perhaps not coincidentally, record could be released. In the left -Patrick Simmon:. his death marked the beginning of The answers to this quiz can be ideal situation, here is my version Thb wcek I celehrate the end of the end ofcommercial success for found in today's Personals column. record review ofReel Music (with song!'. on the actual set italicized). 
Side One

The intent behind the LP is not 
"A Hard Day's Nigbt" "/

that bad: to present a collection of 
Should Have Known Better" (the
some of the songs the Beatles per­
only song on Reel Music not on

Gurdak continues reign as UMOC 
formed or lip-synced in their tlvc either "greatest-hits" anthology)movies,A HardDay's Night, Help!, 
"Help!"
Magical Mystery Tour, Yellow 
"The Night Before" 


M lkr <, urdak II44~0 Mark "Rober" Bauctt Tom jenning!9 ll.~ 
An U.D. Sharkey 10 Submarine, and Let It Be. Untor­
Hro Kud Suubk 19971 Dan Buckley Elldi<= Carroll 12 MU)• Pat SltllniJion 10 "Magical Mystery Tour" 
Crllr)' (Ihe hiM ~link) Bumcn -109~ Scon Rappolc lynn Malod~ 12 Slab 10 tunately, Capitol gives us a collec­"Jessie's Dream" (a Lennon-
Kcth Uadu:u Hl~ john IWrU Annie Miko~ ll The Spill Brothers 10 tion ofsongs, all hut one ofwhich )ohnGoctz 2~(~) fr.IUch Conyers Michele Thoma~ 12 Dud Tongle 10 composed instrumental from 
was also on either The Beatles

llr <:harks Kulpa 19~0 Whitey Bancl JimboAzzy II Dave SearK Turner 10 Tour)lar Kai~er 194~ Bank Karpick Helen McCarthy 10 Monica Tyler 10 1962-1966 or The Beatles 1967­juc "Rooper" Treanor lll6 F. Tom "UJIIy" Klueacl Tcx U.D. McKenny In jim "Splo"Tyn-eU 10 "Yellow Submarine" (mono
1970, and one of which is now on 
!'wh.KKJt' Jablonski 1000 Franny McKelvey Shamci"Brown Man' Abd-ullah 1 o Mary Ann Updaw 10 version, with complete response Gltnn "the-Wankcr''Kaoc 970 Steve Renner Steve Amesbury I 0 Cooi·JerVeklerts 10 irsfifth album ("And I Love Her"). Ct.J "rhr Hernia" Konrady 69l Roy Rloo John "link" Rchrcn~ 10 Beer Bona Wdnacht 10 vocal during the last verse -the
I cannot complain about the 

(.hriAwphcr Pen)· 613 Vk: ScluUI Blirn 10 John Clea with Shirley Bevaqua 9 stereo version cuts part ofit off) l>tnlsf: Rivard Mlkc "Nutnuui'' DeKoche
'537 Mark BrooD Dr. Bob 10 songs themselves. They are among
9 "It's All Too Much" (with extra
,,)() IU
l>omlnk: Yocaua Emcrllus Kcllcc Ash )Ill Boler Shirley Bevaqua withjohn Clea 9 the Beatles' tlnest -the movies' Mucva Schmlu 467 Jim Baker Mark Bomcl I 0 Marty "Cel" Garvin 8 verse not available on a,ny legal LP) l'r Pt"tcr NorriA 401 Magic ••Mope" Brcn f ... Tom Bower 8
10 title songs and "All You Need Is
Ken111'hlle "Think for Yourself' (the rough·
'llalah Qulnl 393 Margaret Callahan Sh01wn Boyle l U AnJIIe Huno 6 Love" are six, and ifyou know any­Carl"lhc Crtucr·· RUter' 380 Trlah Carllon john Breen I 0 Mike "Mkbelln Man"Welsb 6 
ly 10-second version from YS, un­thing at all about the Beatlcs' 
Kevin Embach 3~8 "MMMMMM"john CoiUno Mark Brccn 10 Mike Burkster S released) joe 8on,Porl 3HJ IUch Dubois Bob Byrne 10 Pam Fcrgu50n ••the Plf Monster" S 
Side Two

Mike O'Bryan l86 Bill Grrgcn Cathy Chopp 1 U Mike: Gilmore 5 Bob WUkiRJOn 249 Greene Han John Clt:mcnl!l< 1 o Greg Hawley 5 Entire side of music from Let It Be: "The sUck Canavan Fund" 239 Mlkcjans T.). Conley 10 H.........J HaU Mystery Man 5 
"Let It Be" (version from the 

Na1 WalAh lH Ellen johnson John lU>. Court ncr 1U 
and bio Mystery Girl 

Sadie 220 l>um.·an Mcrer~ Ma~· Anne Daher 1 0 "/ cannot complain movie, with the "There will be no 
Doc McBride S

John Wallace 210 jdfMonaghan Hob "ED" DIM:hering 10 
sorrow" line in the last verse)
MlcheUe Schneider S

jell Lundholm 200 Eddlc Moreno l.i:!ta Dufrane I 0 
about the songs them­
jomO'Han 20() jc!t.S Moyar Tracey Fake 10 Jay Schwartz S "Suzy Parker" (a one-minute james Panenon 
~eve Nkkntah 200 jim Moyar Don Fleck 10 long rocker)
Rich StanJlile 2 

selves. They are among
Steve Nlckn&th'• dales 200 Marybngh.l Nlc:klle) Urian Cro-mag Foley I 0 
Tony Bonnaccl "Dig It" (the full, almost-four­
L lllcky 1110 MiMI O'Brien John Tra!>h Fona.o;h 10 
Taxable 1 Connon

Paul Pisanld 10
joe Hurd 170 Be1hGaJc:~ the Beatles' finest... But minute version)
JeffCorrlgun

Bob C:rable 136 t'elc l'olcari Bu~o.:kelhcad Ga.IC!o IU 
Mike Dunn "Shake, Rattle, and Roll/Lawdy
Tom Nculngcr 131 john Richard!<! Christopher Gale"' lll 
the compilers of this
Daniel Freud (OFM)

Mwtn KJng 123 Maq· ''I ncedadrtn~" Schncidcr Fred Gale!!< 10 Miss Clawdy" (medley of two 
John "Smiley" Hrebcc

Tony Humcr 110 Tom l'rozzolo NkoJc: Gale!'! lU 
album took the easy oldies)
ManHuft'man

Tom O'Brien 102 TomTuo~ John li.D. <iihbon!'l 10 K.rvtn Bc-tvnd1 I 01 )1\' l!nderwom.l Waxing<iihbon!-1 10 Andy Keusal "Besame Mucho" (an oldie from Bjorn Brian (B.K.) Krullanscn 
Tom Henry 101 John "'arnoc.:k Hey (jilbu!9 I 0 way out." the 40's, often performed in their
ROOROO Mahoney

Franc: I• "the-Icc (.'Ubc" l.>cnmod 100 Eileen "freckle up" '«'irlc~ Nick Grahurger "Ill" HI 
Ron Marga.rvita Hamburg days)CouaJn Kevtn Lemen 100 Jiln Urbaniilnltl!!o Worm Chuc:k Ha.•oh l 0 
BIU Ribera

Bob Lucian 100 8o~Zoo~ Tim Hip!<~kmd I 0 An untitled boogie-woogic
Mark Schaffer

Mlkc Man inez 100 Milrl.. Shippn~ jadjdf 111 
Pete Schnook piano duct featuring Paul 
john Riedl 100 Mik~ (Juinlan Mike Homestead~ I 0 ShnJbbya Rock 100 jtm Brennan 1 o movies, the other eight are also McCartney and Ringo Starr
Tim Tallartda
Goat Borer 
Mike '&'ekb 

AnhwllupiMn 100 Marybclh T Brennan Pa1Jamc~ 10 good. But the compilers of this al· "Get Back" (version from the Tom Schu.ccr 100 Carol jean Burke Chti~ Jamrcz I 0 
bum took the easy way out. They Apple Studios rooftop concert,
JM M•umect 99 Wavo Cnwlon.J RaUJanitd 10 Steve t:~bol 90 F.llcn Korczrk·Stanlcr Ka1h~· Jcnnmg."' included every song from the tllms featured at the end of the movie) Al"rank" Hank A.K.A Sca.rf:ace 78 "Uillu"l..ancscr Mary Ruth Kelly 
that even the casual Bcatles fan has These arc sixteen recordings, all
Maria Mk:eU 76 UnU~ John Klce Mlkr "the Pizza lOng" Brown 75 Julie .\1 Mclvm Kn~ l.ocksmith heard of, and as a result, destroyed ofwhich actually appear in the Steve "Mr Popular" Hudoba Ron01hJ (Aurora·~ Son) Pauic~ llogman l.o\'Oi 
any potentiai for respectability. movies as released to the public.
Pauy Perry Pic.'h<:c: Gerald Lovolt' Tom jlnglctitz 69 Milry jo Sc.:hramm joe l.uhhcn The man to blame tor th1s This would make a more interest­
"!>cooble" l.cc and "Sha88Y" fliiTCI <>9 Brh.Jgct <iaf') j~M~~ travesty, Randall Davis, at least has ing if not hcttcr Reel Music album. Tom Macl...cnnan 69 l>uru.<.c:-hnl) Tom Malone~ 
69 jdfltartnq Mary joe Manlilnart'lla his name on the record jacket. This Instead, we arc stuck with what
Skinhead 
jtm Babb 6~ Tomjou.:ohl't l.uri Marie~ could have been a showcase for Capitol, courtesy of the aforemen­Marya Saka Wench 60 .\like tr.:..ier Jeff M1hali~ "Tbr Mammoth" John L Schadrr ~~ (Jehbae :'\jaula Craz~ perhaps the title songs plus a few tioned Mr. Davis,-has given us. Per­
~1on~ BW Rochat~tn ~2 <...hr~~ Jl<~ohlll Mun chestnuts from the soundtracks sonally, I wouldn't recommend Raymond Ayala I>cniM" !\nul h 1\.iiren O'Sulll\'an 
that have yet to be legitimately this album to anyone unless they
Charlie funkme '"so t\ouhlccn "Pus!'! ilnU Hoot~" Turner 20 Pa1 O'(Juinn SmoiLinaJoc 
~0 Ron Ve~ .W ~1ike Peterson released. But noooo! Davis went are the absolute hard-core Beat· 
john Kocchlc)' ~0 Jad.. (~en0\1 t'M' 1.., Faddab PctrlUo for the obvious. Sure he writes lemaniac who has to have every l.ouloc Mudd ~0 RCt(l~ Alli!.On I~ Scooter Reynolds UndaPuwcn ~o fill.nllin Michael Robcns record the l:lcatles ever released
good album notes, but who buys Radar "Chip" Horak "I\ I Tim Salzler an album for its inserts? regardless of repetition. It is a 
.\li~e 1~ 
Charhc .\t>~n!9un ~ 
I)IVC "lkaV'C1''' Meehan 4 S 1\.;.uc ~allier 1 '; Karina Santos 
And what is worse (or better, ripoff in every sense ofthe word.
Mart. Kiluich 44 Ra~ F.rnM I!~ Schlop 

Wednesday, April 28, 1982 -page 8

·sports Brie s 
::~B~}~-~T~h~e~(~J~h~s~e~r~l'~e~r=a:n:u~1';h:e:A7s:s:r:J(:.,:·a~t:e~d~P~r~e:s~s::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::;;::::;:::::::::::::: 















The Observer wtll accept classtfieds Mon­day through Friday. 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However. classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day pnor to insertion. All classtfieds must be prepaid, either in person or through the maiL 




Classifieds 
LARGE DORM ROOM REFRIGERATOR NOTICES John s knit Jacket. Lost In Morns Inn or A rode to ATLANTA after commencement. FOR SALE CALL DON 1504 I need ci ride to Atlanta after commence· m1ss you next year, but have fun at G­Parkong lot. April 17th Call x283-t 075. Take me home... Call 8649. ment Take nie home .... Call Jeb at 8649. townl Don I forget to study too! PEAVEY BASS AMP 50 WATTS 15 
Lost: $50 Reward. Creamy Whole St. W•nted: Atlanta...Atlanta...Atlant• JIMBO Congrats. DOC GIBLIN JR. Ill 
Atlanta... Atlanta...Atlanta Luv, Joanoe PART-TIME TUTORS for Educatoonal SPKA CALL LARRY xt592
lost pr. of geld-wire nmmed eye glasses in Center to teach classes of students
EARN UP TO $~00 o'R MORE EACH hard cover black case. DESPERATELY NEEDED. call Moke 234-9805. prepanng lor LSA T or MCAT. Requores BASS LIKE NEW, CALL LARRY xt592 LENNY BAUTOCAO Murph is Back! HURRAH I YEAR BEG1NN1NG SEPTEMBER FOR 
1·3 YEARS SET YOUR OWN HOURS. 
high GPA, teachong experoence a plus. 
Congratulatoons on winning the MAS­POSTERS ON CAMPUS BONUS LOST: BLUE N.D. GYM BAG LEFT BY Desore law student for LSAT, medical or FOR SALE-$40 MARSAND CAMERA TERS! (You hed better work on your put· What time os it. BETH SULLIVAN? graduate or PhD student in science area BAG FOR $15-VERY GOOD CONDI· 
MONTHLY PAYMENT T FOR PLACING 
THE BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL ling, though.) tor MCAT. Classes begin on June, con­TION CALL CHERYL AT283-3194 OR AT BASED ON RESULTS. PRIZES 
AWARDED AS WELL. 800·526-0883 COURTS ON FRIDAY 4/26. I DESPERATLY NEED THE GLASSES GEORGE E.
tinued employment possible throughout OBSERVER NOW THAT THE SYSTEM IS 
year. Call 232-2366. 
Dear Karen, How s work? I wouldn t LEFT IN THE BAG. IF FOUND PLEASE WORKING, WE'D LIKE TO TELL 1414141414 14 14 14 14 141414 1414 know I haven t done any in a couple CONTACT MIKE AT 277 -2046 OR EVERYONE HOW GLAD WE WERE TO 14 14 14 14 14 14 14 14 14 YOU'RE 
TWO DESPERATE WOMEN NEED A
TURN IT IN TO LOST AND FOUND AT PRETTY AWESOMEI!!! PLACE TO SLEEP! PLEASE SELL US
months. You just get ready for the best BRING YOU HOME ON SATURDAY 
THE AD BUILDING YOlJA LOFT. CALL DIANE OR MARl AT
summer you ve ever seen NIGHT!I!I 
THANKS FOR YOUR TOLERANCE Hey MUD, oops, I mean CRUD
TICKETS
8006 AND MAKE US AN OFFER
FOR TYPING CALL 288-5855 BETTY At last, here IS the personal I prom1sed
LOST: Woman s Gold Se1ko Watch woth leather band somewhere rn Pasquenlla 
DID YOU FEEL BETTER WHEN YOU you Now you II be ondebted to me forever! 
ATTN CLEVELANDERS· Need nde home LEFT DAVE? 
West or Orllon Sentrmental value Need graduatoon tix Call Jom 1163.
Fnday 4-30 Moke-8816 
WANTED: 10 men and 10 women to par­THE WATCHER AND THE WANTEA
Reward. Call SMC 5367 
tocopate in a psychology expenment on good luck next year to oc-they will need it
Please let the whole family sea me 
memory. QUALIFICATINS: 1) must be when the 1ncred1ble rock shrever lands
LOSTLOST Three gold nngs and a gold NEED TWO ROOMATES TO SHARE AN graduate-! need 2 more tickets. Call JOHN RYAN 
ND/SMC student, 2) must have no pre­next year-watch out Jp2 !
watch INVALUABLY SENTIMENTAL. APARTMENT NEXT YEAR IN CAMPUS Mary 8779 Personally, I think every personable
VIOUS expenence 1n psych expenments. I 
(They cannot possobly be worth as much VIEW CALL JIM AT 3282 young man deserves a personal before -woll pay $2.00 for less than 1 hour of your Helen, Losa. MP. Steve, Boll, and
to you as they are to me) &&& REWARD DESPERATELY NEED 2 GRAD. TIXI­he graduates Now that wasn I too per­
trme If yOfJ want to partrcrpate, be rn the NEED AIDE to Ball or everybody· Thanks tor a 20th borthday
&&& No questoons asked PLEASE State Kokomo CALL BOB 277-1117 sonal, was it?
lobby of Haggar Hall ar 9:00 PM on Wed­weekend thai Ill remember on my 100th!l
reconsider! Call6723 weekend of Apnl 30 woll share $$ Call nesday, Apnl28 Let the good t1mes keep rolling--on the
8088 

BEWARE WOMEN OF NO, CHRIS PER· Need upto3Graduatoon Tix. $$$Jim 287· rover, perhaps? Happoly yours, BobRY HAS CAST OFFill ONCE AGAIN,lost: A tweed overcoat. Reward it found. 
Have a wold and crazy tome at the Howard 
3607 

FLEET FOOT ROAMS THE CAMPUS IN 
lOUIS ph 3160 AOOMATE WANTED: Clean 2 bedroom
Hall GONG SHOW tonoght at 8 00 PM on AttentiOn all feosty wenches: Moke Dunn os
SEARCH OF FIESTY WENCHES. 

home Good area. nice yard. Furn1shed
the Howard Chapel It s Note No 3 of the besl KISSER on campus Congrarula­
NO REASONABLE OFFER REFUSED I Howard Hall Week, and rt s freer woll pay BIG MONEY for your graduation toons, Moke, on beong An Tostal s first KIS­
except for bedroom Call 234-1661 days or 234-9970 evnongs. Ask for Colleen. 
SER winner! 

tickers Call Moke at 6700 
tor a quoetly debonaor and suave evenong,
I FOR RENT 
Need rode to D.C. as soon as possoble at­NEED AIDE TO 0 HARE ON SUNDAYNEED SINGLE GRADUATION TICKET. try the office, an Innovative new soc1alfer Sat, May B Call Broan 4521. 
MAY9 CALL RAY AT 3596.

CALL PAUL, 85>09. space With a b1t of the casual Callforn1an 
laod back hie as well as a good dose of the 
\ LOST/FOUND \ 
For Rent Student Housong-rated Headong for HOUSTON and have some 
IS IT TRUE TOM MACLENNAN GOT 69 supenor·summer and/or tall Clean, sate, extra space? I need to get some bulky VOTES FOR UMOC? 
MONEY! Low supply and hogh demand New Yor~ state of mond 
normally. Am wolhng to trade money for a your hosts, Joe "wtf' Maugeri, Martin 
Lost One set of keys somewhere be­laundry, utihtoes, $100/mo tolal 291· 1tems hauled home. Will share some 
graduatoon ticket on order to do my part to "wtf' Tyrie, Uoyd "Kiee" Hardin, and Jim tween Sacred Heart and Lewos II found, 1405 costs. Call 8621. Only in his dreams!!! 
maontaon the economy s cash flow. If you "cazh" MacLennanplease return to 406 Howard or call Moke 
are wolhng to do your part. call Kelly at coming next yearat8279. CONGRATULATIONS CHRISTOPHER
Be your own boss Comfortable 5 
NEEDED: a rode from the east to Notre 1550bedroom, completely furnoshed house for PERRY ON PLACING 11TH IN THE
Dame at the end of August Please call HI RAY, f M SURE YOU HAVE FRIENDS FOUND: A puppy in the Admonostratoon 5 or 6. Close to campus. Phone 288-3942 
UMOC COMPETITION. IT MUST HAVE Buolding on Apnl 27, 1982. Please call BEEN YOUR BUM LEG THAT EF· 
John at 1818. Will share usual and I woll Family wont believe 11 unless they see it. TOO!!!! 
nol have any luggage Need three grad. tix! Call John 1730 
Luci at 5258 between 7 and 4 and odentify. FECTED YOUR STANDING. BETTER
May 7 IS the borthdate of the best brother N.D. Ave Apts-Apts available for sum-
LUCK AND FEWER POINTS NIEXT YEAR I Ill 

Need rode to Pholly on May 12 or anytome on the world! That s you,
mer after. Call Maryeva at 2909. LARRY 0 TOOLE!
Lost: Prescriptoon sunglasses during An 160/monlh Tostal piCnic by North Dinong Hall. If and next school year. 234-6647 
11 who cares how many votes that guy found, please call x2184 
PERSONALS 
got? 2) the word os affected 2 student houses foor rent on Ntre Dame LET'S MAKE A POLICY. 
sure, but what does that entaol?

Ave One 4-stu, one 5-stu house Withon DD,Found: Gold eanng by Stepan B-Ball 
FOR SALE
walkong distance. Avaol. fall semester 82. 
GOOD LUCK ON YOUR ORAL FINAL•VIC TAYBACK lor SENIOR FELLOW courts. Call277-0884 tor appoontment. It it 

Call evenongs 272-8870. CRAIG HALE 
IN FRENCH BETTER STAAT STUDY­fits the hole in your ear, it's yours. 

JIM BADER ING NOW JUDY FENLON, whoUSED BOOK SHOP HOURS WED , MA WHITE
House for rent summer only, close to pret•nda to be from Minnesota when 
Lost Dunlop Max-Iii pitchong wedge on SAT. SUN 9·7. CASPERSON 1303 
campus, excellent condition. 287·5361. she Is really fro~m St. Paul, will present
Wed. 4/21 on or near 7th green. If found BUCHANAN AD , NILES. Here are the answers to Tnv1a OUiz
a symposium on May 5. The topic of 
please call Vince at 27-2-7645 CONGRATULATIONS ... XXV, lo be found on SHOWCASE·
3 houses for rent--all on same block 5 the symposium will be "The Minnesota
Special Dlacounts for Notre Dame 
... to the 1982 Car Stuffing Champions for 1 Sam Cooke 
bdrm-$450, 6 bdrm-$540 per mo. Call North Stars, why do they The 
LOST: 0~~ Organoc Chemostry bo~k .~ faculty on computers and peropheral their THIRD victory in a row! May the '80, 2. Jim Reeves 
277-3461 or 272-9299. North Stars' o.ntlm•ly dlsmlul from 
the South Dinong Hall last week and 1 products, pnnters, modems, etc. Hewlett­'81, (and now) '82 champs reign in their 3 Eddoe Cochran: Gene Voncent
the NHL playoffa will be dlacussed In 
would dearly appreciate its return no Packard. Zenofh. FOURWAY COM­smallness forever! Stuff! Stuff! Stuff! 4. Monnoe A1perton
5 ROOMS FURNISHED AT $125 PER detail. 
questions asked. II necessary, I will even PUTER PRODUCTS, INC., 52758 US 31 5. Terry Kath (of Chocago)
PERSON WITH UTILITIES PAID HOME 
pay ransom money. Please return to 129 North (Acroaa from North Vlll•ge Mall) Colleen... 6. Otos Aeddong
AWAY FROM HOME NEWLY A new art exhibit Is opening up at the DECORATED WITH PANELLING AND Snlte Museumo on a special one w..k
Dillon or call 6661. 277-7720. .. ... You were the best stuff in the back 7 Jom Croce 
seat! B. Keoth Relf (of the Yardbords) Love, The Coach 9 J1m1 Hendnx 
NEW CARPETING IN EVERY ROOM loan from thlt Washington D.C. Art 
ALL SHARE HUGE LIVING ROOM WITH Museum. The priceless collection con­10 Waylon Jennongs 
FOUND: CAT Black & whole with black 4-sale MGB 74 Burg Good cond. 63000 
FIREPLACE sists ugly pathetically Thanks for your readershop agaon thos
spot on nose & blue doamond stud collar KITCHEN WITH CARPET· moles $2300 call 255-9784 ol and poor 
lNG AND APPLIANCES AND ALL UTEN­drawings by JUDY FENLON'S kids, no 5652. SILS TWO BATHROOMS WITH Buy and sell your books at Pandora s relation to Jarry's "kids," though you near Mornssey and Howard halls. Call41­
To all members of· THE QUAD year -I apprec1ate 1t (None other than Mo. Madenda, and Sul­Tom Neely
SHOWER AND BATH DOUBLE would never know It by their looks and FOUND: set of keys in front of BP on Sat. GARAGE AND GOOD PARKING paperbacks in store 937 Soulh Bend art work. The display will run May 3-7, 
Th1s week only--percent off on all used ly) Thanks for the woldesl year of my hie! 
during An Tostal obstacle course. CON­FACILITIES CALL 233-2245 OR 282-Avenue, 233-2342 and then It will travel on to Chicago The Off Campus Preseason Desperately need GRADUATION TICK­
1664. before going on to London. Poll for lhe Zahm Hall 1982-1983 Tool of ETS-Woll pa Bucks Call 272-5438 TACT 284-4569 TO CLAIM. 
For Sale: Stereo--JVC components.AAL 
the Year Award Pete love them
If anyone has "found' the 43 orange traffic speakers Mus! hear to beheve! Call Ted ponslnpes Guolfoyle Good luck woth your
CAMPUS VIEW APT. SUBLET FOR POESY IS NOT CRITICISM I 
cones and the keg woth its tap that were at 1780 SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS ARE summer onternshop at Black and Decker 
SUMMER VERY REASONABLE BEWAREIstolen from the An T ostal rentallruck that STILL AVAILABLE: Danvolle, IL-A peso­REDUCED RENT TWO BDAM POOLwas behond St Eds Thurs. noght, they can loon on a hospitalos avaolable for a pre-med ATTENTION GRACE HALL UNDER­AIR COND CALL272-5438 for sale Yamaha 12stnng guotar call 1159 be anonymously returned to the Student student Kansas City -Serv1ce placement 
GRADUATES: ·Be forewarned dunng ' Congratulations. Gurdak the cam-Unoon Olfoce or call 3653. You re only . 
workong woth the elderly and other pOS­
NEED TWO AOOMATES TO SHARE tonoght s room picks that 3 of the last 7 paogn broke down thos year. but we II bestealong your own money. 
sobilitoes. Contact Andrea Shappell at the 
resodents of the 927-928 suote are now bogger and beller nexl year (and on the Center for Experoential Learnong, ttl 0 
CAMPUS VIEW APT. NEXT YEAR 1975 VW. low moleage, good car. no rust e1ther marned or engaged The su1te same dorm!!!)
CALL RICK AT 277-7565 AM-FM radoo Askong $2500 or make of­
ATTENTION! We need your help. YEAR­Lobrary, 239-5319. Alumno Clubs woll 
The Moose for UMOC Commottee BOOKS have been dostnbuted whoch award $t000 scholarsnop Sandy, Thank you for a great year You have names embossed on the lower nght have made th1s year spec1al for me I m 
fer 259-2367, ask for Nancy 
4-sale 74 MGB burg 63.400m good
hand cover These are personalized Trivoa Quoz No 2 for Mike from Ketterong: look1ng forward to the summer and the Dear Edifor­
cond. $2300 call 255-9784 
copoes whoch belong to personnel and ad­What does "S to the fourth' equal? weekends that I can spend woth you mrnistrators Because of the personal What's your favorite kind of CREAM? Good luck thos weekend Joe 
The first laugh we rece1ve after S1mon

CELLO FOR SALE CALL234-9974
value of these books, we would ap­Who do you want for commencement 
all year was hearmg that it won the award 

precoate theor beong returned to the Stu­speaker? COLLEGE REPUBLICANS CLUB 
lor Best Comic Cartoon in the Indiana dent Actovities Offoce on La Fortune as Need rode to MPLS area after fonals. Can Who's the JED of Texas Tea fame? ELECTIONS TONIGHT, APRIL 28, 7:30
Kaplan LSAT study materials, 1982. Only 
Collegiate Press AssociatiOn Awards 

change IS math to wntmg for future ex­
soon as possoble' Thank you for your leave anytome after 4 on 5/10. Woll share Who's phenomenal, awesome, and PM Room 104 0 Shaughnessey Hall BE 
Respectfully,

ams, everythong else stoll vahd Cheap.
cooperahon--The DOME 1982 Stall usual. Call Phol al 8682. rude? THERE!!!!!!!!!!·
Jom 287·3607 9-C Grace Hall 
The Blue-Gold game, the annual intrasquad foot­
ball scrimmage that culminates the spring practice season, will take 
place this Saturday, May 1, at Notre Dame Stadium. Notre Dame and 
Saint Mary's students will be admitted free of charge by showing 
their ID. Tickets for the general public are available now and are 
priced at $2.50 for adults and n.oo for children under 17. Tickets· 
also can be purchased the day of the game for $3.50 (adults) and 
s 1.50 (children). Proceeds will benefit the Notre Dame Club ofSt. joseph County and its annual scholarship fund drive. -The Ob­server 
"Dick Moby and the Sperqt Whales" 
captured the An Tostal Innertube Water Polo touAtament by defeat­ing "The Lust Bombs," 16-9. In the consolation game, "The Pack's Back" got by "J Arthur ...," 10-5. To reach the tlnal round, "Dick Moby ..." beat "J Arthur ...," 11-4, while "Lust Bomb" stopped "Pack's ...," 11-8. -The Observer 
Irish baseball team swept a doubleheader over Bowling Green yesterday, 10-2 and 5-0. Freshman john Deasey was 2-for-3 with three RBis and junior Steve Gallinaro ( 1-0) picked up the win in the first game. In the nightcap, sophomore Mark Clementz (5-0) struck out seven en route to a four-hit shutout. The Irish are now 21-12 this season. Valparaiso visits jake Kline Field for a 2:30 
p.m. contest tomorrow. -The Observer 
Irish lacrosse teamcan clinch ttrst place in its divi­sion today when it plays host w Ohio State at 3:30 p.m. on Cartier Field. A victory would put Notre Dame in the Midwest Lacrosse As­sociation championship game. -The Observer 
ND-SMC Sailing Clubwill hold a meeting tonight at 
6:30 in the Howard Hall social space. -The Observer 
ND Rowing Clubwill hold a meeting tonight at 8:30 to in room 20 LaFortune to collect the $30 for the trip to Madison. The election for next year's men's captain will also be held. -The Ob­server 
NHL Conference Finals began last night. In the Clarence Campbell Conference, Vancouver defeated Chicago, 2-1 in two overtimes. In the Prince ofWales Conference, the N.Y. Islanders defeated Quebec, 4-1. The best-of-seven series continue tomorrow. 
-AP 

Men's tennis teatndropped a tough decision to Mich­igan State yesterday, 5-4. No. 1 singles player Mark McMahon was victorious, running his record to 25-2. The Irish are 18-9 this spring. They play host to De Paul tomorrow at Courtney Tennis Center. ­The Observer 
See BRIEFS, page 9 
NATIONAL LEAGUE  
E•st  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
St. Louos  13  6  684  
Montreal  9  5  643  1.5  
New York  9  8  529  3  
Pittsburgh  7  8  467  4  
Chocago  6  12  333  6.5  
Philadelphoa  4  12  .250  7.5  
W8St  
San Diego  12  4  .750  
Atlanta  13  5  .722  
los Angeles  9  9  500  4  
Houston  8  12  400  6  
Cinc1nnat1  7  11  .389  6  
San Francisco  6  11  353  6.5  
Y•sterday's Reautt.  
Concinnato 6. Chocago 3  
Pittsburgh 1 0, Atlanta 4  
Houston 3, St. Louos 0  
San Doege 8, New York 5  
los Angeles 3, Pholadelphia 0  
Montreal 3, San Francosco 2  
AMERICAN LEAGUE  
E8St  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
Boston  12  6  .667  
Detroit  12  6  .667  
Milwaukee  8  7  .533  2.5  
Cleveland  6  9  .400  4.5  
New York  6  9  .400  4.5  
Toronto  6  11  .353  5.5  
Baltimore  4  10  286  6  
West  
Cali forma  14  5  .737  
Chicago  10  6  .625  2.5  
Kansas City  9  7  563  3.5  
Seattle  10  10  .500  4.5  
Oakland  8  10  .444  5.5  
Texas  6  9  .400  6  
Minnesota  7  13  .350  7.5  

• 
The Observer -Sports Wednesday, April 28, i 982 -page 9 

sweep ofBowling Green. Cameron was 2-for-3 in the second game. (photo by Rudy Perez) 
continuedfrom page 10 
the media and competing. I'm fearful 
of sayng the wrong thing. I don't 
want to get in to a word banle." 
jackson said he had a warm feeling 
from fans who greeted him in the 
city during the day. "People calling 
out, 'Hey Reggie, How're you doing? 
We're pulling for you.' That's nice. 
"I feel tense now," he said at a mid-afternoon press conference, "but I'll be comfortable at the bal­lpark, being in familiar surround­ings, seeing people I know." 
Asked if he felt he had something 
to prove to the Yankees, Reggie said, 
"I'd like to prove something to 
myself, to get on the right track." 
jackson said his adjustment to a new team had been dift1cull. 
"When I first got there, I went to Don Baylor's house one day," he said. "Donnie had left for the bal­lpark early so I had to go by myself. I didn't know where I was going. When I got there, I couldn't find the clubhouse and I didn't know how to get to the field. It's dift'crent. I've got to get accustomed to new places." 
The city welcomed jackson back with a proclamation from borough Presidenl Andrew Stein declaring Tuesday as Reggie jackson Day in Manhattan. 
"I came through a tough time with 
New York," said Jackson, ret'crring 
to the city's fiscal problems. "I have 
fond memories. When you leave a 
place, you reflect Things you took 
for granted are not for granted.'' 
Chicago 11 Milwaukee 2 
MILWAliKEE ( AP)-Ron LeFlore highlightl·d a ~even-run second in­ning with his firM career grand slam, Steve Kemp crashed a two-run shot and Carlton fisk hit a solo homer to lead the Chicago White Sox to a 11-2 rout over the Milwaukee Brewers last night. 
Lamar Hoyt, in a rare start, worked eight innings and ran his record to 4-0 while limiting the Brewers to four hits. 
Kemp's homer, his second of the year, came one out after Leflore led off the game with a walk, and gave the White Sox a 2-0 lead. 
Chicago then exploded in the second to chase Milwaukee starter Randy Lerch, I· I. 
Fisk led off with his first homer in the year. Harold Baines followed with a single, Aurelio Rodriguez reached on an error by second baseman jim Gantner and Bill Almon 
walked to load the bases and send 
Lerch out in favor of)im Slaton. 

LeFlore then lined into the left 
field seats, making it 7-0. Tony Ber­
nazard contiued the inning by reach­
ing base on Gantner's second error 
of the inning. An out later, Greg 
Luzinski hit into a fielder's choice, 
but reached second when shortstop 
Robin Yount's relay throw went into 
the Milwaukee dugout, for the third 
error of the inning. 

Tom Paciorek then drove Luzinski home with a double and scored when Fisk followed with an ·RBI single, his second hit of the inning. 

Boston 7 Kansas City 5 
BOSTON (AP) Carl Yastrzemski drove in two runs with a single in the first inning and set up the go-ahead run with another hit in the fifth last night as the Boston Red 
...Jackson 
Sox beat the Kansas City Royals 7-5 for their eighth consecutive victory. 
Yastrzemski, who will be 43 in August, also was robbed ofa two-run homer in the seventh as Amos Otis reached into the Boston bullpen in right-center for his drive. 
Boston starter Dennis Eckersley was unable to hold a 5-2 lead and was bailed out by relievr Bob Stanley with the score tied at five with run­ners at first and second and none out in the fifth. Stanley got out ofthe jam and went on to even his record at 1-1 by blanking Kansas City on two hits the rest of the way. 
The Red Sox pushed across the tie-breaking run against Kansas City starter Dave Frost, 3-1, in the fifth as Jim Rice walked, raced to third on Yastrzemski's single to right and scored as Glenn Hoffman grounded into a double play. 
The Red Sox scored their final run in the eighth on a double by Dave Stapleton and a single by Rich Ged­man. 
Wilkes' 28 points paces Lakers 'win 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Jamaal Los Angeles led 58-53 at halftime, 
Wilkes paced a balanced Los Angeles but the Lakers pulled away to an 88­scoring effort with 28 points last 77 lead heading into the final period night as the Lakers posted a II 5-96 and were never threatened after­victory over the Phoenix Suns in the ward. 
first game of their Western Con­ference semifinal series in the Na­tional Basketball Association. 
The second game of the best-of-seven series will be played here tonight. 
Earvin "Magic" added 23 points for Los Angeles, which was able to run its fast-break well agamst the Suns. 

Norm Nixon chipped in 22 points for the Lakers, while Bob McAdoo had 21 points comingoffthe bench. 
DennisJohnson and Alvan Adams led the Suns with 20 points apiece and Len Robinson had 18. 
THE DAVE BRUBECK QUARTET in concert
Friday, April30 8:30pm 
Morris Civic Auditorium 
Tickets: $12,$10, S8, and SS. 
On Sale at the Century Center Box Office 284-9111 Present this ad for S 1 off on a pair of tickets. 

N.D. Ceramics Club presents the 
SPRING POTTERY SALE 


Thursday and Friday, April29 and 30. 
10·5 in front of 
O'shaughnessy Inside in case of rain 
'• I 
CAMPUS MINISTRY LECTURE SERIES 
The Ethics of Nuclear War by Prof. Stanley Hauerwas 
an 
CC!IIJP..US
m1111stry 
I


l:. ~ 
After yourlastexam, whattoughquestions will youstillbe facing? W don't have your answers. But we'll listen to your questions, share some of our own about who we want to become and where we want to journey. For anyone who has considered the path of priesthood. the Holy Cross Fathers· One-Year Candidate Program provides an opportunity to ask and explore the possibilities in community. 1 Contl!lct: Rev. Andre Leveille. C.S.C. Vocation Director Box 541 Noire Dame. IN 46556 (219) 239-6385  
April 28 -Wednesday -7:00-8:30 Pm Hayea-Healy 


The Observer -Sports Wednesday, April28, 1982-page 10 
• • • Draft 

says Darryl Rogers, his college
continuedfrom page 12 
coach. to Los Angeles for the Rams' own The Oakland Raiders selected first-and second-round picks this running back Marcus Allen, the Heis­year. man Trophy winner from Southern 
With their newly acquired first­Cal. round pick, the Colts then chose Allen, a 205-pounder and the quarterback Art Schlichter of Ohio latest in a long line o,f outstanding State. USC tailbacks, shattered the single­
Schlichter and Jim McMahon of season NCAA rushing record last fall, Brigham Young were considered gaining an amazing 2,342 yards and the only quarterbacks who might go averaging 212.0 per game. He on the first round. started out with five consecutive 
The Chicago Bears were next. The 200-yard games, an NCAA mark, and Bears, unable to win consistently gained more than 200 eight times in with their troika of quarterbacks -1 1 contests. Vince Evans, Mike Phipps and Bob The St. Louis Cardinals exhausted Avellini-selected McMahon, a6-0, their entire 1 S minutes while 180-pounder who throws every pass completing a trade with the Kansas in the book, reads defenses extreme­City Chiefs in which the Cardinals ly well and benefited from playing in gave up their first-round pick in ex­a pro-type offense at BYU. change for the Chiefs' first-and 
McMahon led the nation in pas­third-round choices. sing efficiency last fall, completing Kansas City then picked Anthony 272 of 425 passes for 3,555 yards Hancock, a speedy wide receiver and 30 touchdowns, with only seven from Tennessee. The Pittsburgh interceptions. He also was No. l in Steelers quickly followed by grab­
•r.-•tal offense, averaging 345.8 yards bing running back Walter per game. Abercrombie of Baylor. 
The Seattle Seahawks selected New Orleans took Lindsay Scott, a defensive end Jeff Bryant, who wide receiver from Georgia. played for Clemson's national cham­Hancock is a track sprinter who pions. combines blazing speed with sure 
Bryant, a 260-pound defensive hands. lineman at Clemson, led the Tigers Abercrombie, a 205-pounder, in tackles for loss with 19 and quar­went up in the ratings when he terback sacks with eight. showed an ability to catch the ball in 
The Minnesota Vikings then the Hula Bowl all-star game. selected Darrin Nelson, a 5-8 1/2 Scott set Georgia records for most running back from Stanford, who receiving yards in a career ( 2,098) holds the NCAA career record for and a season ( 728 in 1981 ) and most all-purpose rushing with 6,885 career receptions ( 131 ). yards. The Rams picked Barry Redden, a 
The Houston Oilers went for Mike running back from the University of Munchak, one of two offensive Richmond who starred in the Senior guards from Penn State who were Bowl. The 21 0-pound Redden expected to be early selections. The rushed for a school record 1,629 265-pound Munchak, who missed yards last fall and finished third na­the 1980 season following knee sur­tionally with 162.9 yards peigame. gery, gave up his last year ofcollege The Detroit Lions rook Jimmy eligibility to qualify for this year's Williams, a defensive end-outside draft. linebacker from Nebraska. 
The Atlanta Falcons took fullback St Louis, using the pick acquired Gerald Riggs ofArizona State, a 225-from Kansas City moments earlier, pound power runner with tailback took Luis Sharpe, an offensive tackle speed. "A complete football player," from UCLA. 
"A TOUR-DE-FORCE... MY DINNER WITH ANDRE is a unique mixture of wit, poignance, pathos and dazzling, thought-provoking intellectual vaudeville., 
-Joseph Gelmis. Newsday 
"A UNIQUE, BRILLIANT FILM." 
-Roger Ebert. Chicago Sun-Times 
STARTS FRIDAY 
MV 
DINHER 


WlfH 
ANDRE 

directed bY 

LOUIS MALLE 
wnnen bY. and starnne 
AHI>RE 
GREGORY 
and 
WALLACE 
SHAWN 

MV 
DINHER 
WITH 
ANDRE 
Available from Grove Press 1n paperback 

FORUMCINEMt\ I,n,m 
1 Mile North of NOTRE DAME on U.S. 31 North • (219) 277·1522 

Williams has extraordinary 4.5 

speed -he has run a 4.34 -and is 
as fast or faster than many backs. 
Sharpe, who weighs 260 pounds, 

played center, guard and tackle 
during his UCLA career. 
The Tampa Bay Buccaneers let 

the clock run down to 1 : 19 before 
picking Farrell, Munchak's running 
mate at guard for Penn State. 
The New York Giants, on the 

other hand, needed less than a 
minute to grab Michigan's Butch Woolfolk, a much-needed running back. 
The Denver Broncos, up next, traded their first-round pick -No. 20 overall -to Buffalo, and the Bills used it to select Clemson wide receiver Perry Tuttle. In return, Denver received Buffalo's first­round pick -No. 22 -and the fourth-round pick from the Bills. 
The Philadelphia Eagles tabbed 
Mike Quick, a wide receiver from 
North Carolina State. 
Quick caught 32 passes last 
season for 508 yards to become the 
Wolfpack career leader in both 
categories with 116 catches for 
1,934. 
The Broncos, using the pick ob­

tained from Buffalo a few minutes 
earlier, took San Jose State running 
back Gerald Willhite. 

Jacksonleads Angels over Yankees 
Green Bay selected Iowa guard NEW YORK (AP) -Reggie Jack­Reggie's return. Ron Hallstrom, a 260-pounder who son made a triumphant return ro "Upstage me?" he said. "I'm hit­was switched from defensive tackle New York last night, rapping a ting .160, .1 75. It's easy to upstage to the offensive line in 1979. tremendous home run -his first me. But there's nothing you can do 
The Miami Dolphins picked of. extra-base hit of the season -as the from 8 to 10:30." fensive guard Roy Foster ofSouthern: California Angels posted a 3-1, rain­Jackson refused to be drawn into Cal, the third Trojan taken on the shortened victory and spoiled Gene the Lemon-Steinbrenner-Gene Mic­opening round. Michael's return as manager of the hael triangle, saying "It's none of my 
The Dallas Cowboys dipped into troubled Yankees. business. That's for you guys to have the small college ranks for Rod Hill, a The game was called after seven fun with." cornerback from Kentucky State innings when asteady rain turned in­But the slugger admitted that the 
who can run and hit and is an excel­to a downpour. Rookie Angel return to Yankee Stadium, where he lent kick returner. The report on Hill Moreno, who held the Yankees to played for five tumultuous seasons, says he has excellent tools but will four singles, got the win. was special for him. have to be taught the finer points of Jackson, who signed with the An­"I'm a little timid, a little con­the game. gels in January as a free agent after cerned about coming back to New 
The Cincinnati Bengals, loser ro five tumultuous seasons with the York, getting into the whirlwind of 
San Francisco in the Super Bowl, Yankees, singled off loser Ron SeeJACKSON, page 9 selected Glen Collins, a defensive Guidry, 2-1, to start the ftfth inning tackle from Mississippi State who is and later scored on Bob Boone's projected as a pass-rushing end in 
suicide squeeze bunt, and then the NFL. opened the seventh with a scream­ing home run off the facade of the
The Houston Oilers then an­upper deck in right field. 
... Itetns
nounced a swap with the Rams. The ball caromed off the facade
Houston sent tight end Mike Barber approximately 60 feet above the
and its third-and eighth-round 353-foot sign. The cheers of the continuedfrom page 12
selections this year to the Rams for 35,458 fans brought Jackson out of
tight end Louis Gilbert and a pair of the dugout for a curtain call, follow­•(Jan. 21 after the Irish recordpicks the Rams had acqured earlier ing which the crowd began an dipped to 2-9): "This could be the -a second-rounder from Tampa obscene chant directed at Yankee first time since I963-64 ·that theBay and a third-round choice from owner George Steinbrenner. Irish football and basketball squadsDenver. 
Bobby Grieb hit his first home run finished the season on the minusThe world champion San Fran­
of the season in the fourth inning to side."
cisco 49ers capped the opening give the Angels a 1-0 lead. The •(Feb. 3 before the Irish lost again toround by giving up their No. I and Yankees tied it with an unearned run UCLA): "The Irish have won seven ofNo. 4 picks to New England for tight in the bottom of the fourth against their last 12 games vs. UCLA."
end Russ Francis. The Patriots 
Moreno, 2-2. •(Feb. 24, before Notre Dame's 81­promptly closed out the first round Jackson laughed at the suggestion 69 loss to DePaul): "The Irish have
by taking Lester Williams, a that George Steinbrenner's tiring of captured four of the last sevendefensive cackle from Miami of Bob Lemon as Yankee manager on games vs. DePaul."
Florida. 
Sunday was contrived to upstage •( Mar_ 3, referring £0 an item in Inside Sports magazine): "In the past-------------------~------, 10 years, only UCLA has been rankedAttention! in the final top I 0 more years than 
the Irish." 
•(And finally, the bright side, Mar. 
YEARBOOKS have been distributed which 10 after the Irish edged Michigan in 
the season finale): "For the first time 
have names embossed on the front lower since 1973-74, Notre Dame won its 
last basketball game ofthe season." ADD END-And finally,I'd like to
right-hand cover. These are personal copies 
thank all of the people who have made these 62,208 words possible:
which belong to personnel and administrators. 
Vicki ("Why didn't you propose in Items?"), Mom ("Please deposit"),
If you received one of these books, Dad ("Show me philosophy in the 
yellow pages and I'll pay for it"),
please exchange it immediately at the Student 
Gram (thanks for clipping), Skip, Orti, Frank, Beth, Paul, Brian, Dave, 
Activities Office in Lafortune! 
Grass, Chris, et al, Mary Ann and Al­
Thank you so much for your cooperation. bert, Roger, John, Karen, Smooz, 
Jeannie, Pam, Karen, Lenny(?), ROTC, Mike, Billy, section 9C Grace Hall (I promised I'd get you in), and
DOME 1982 staff anyone else I don't have room to ILention ... 
And remember, in the words of a great American, "The door's open but the ride ain't free." 
--------------------------~ 
The_Observer~--=­
I 
l 


T0 d~x==============w=e=ct=n=e=sct=a=y='=A=p=ri=I=2=s,=t=9=s=2==p=a=g=e=I=I I 
Simon 
I CAilT 
I'VE CUI :il M~~y ClR'>SfS
IT FA1itER; 
TliAr I'V£ W->T COUNT I T'M
'lEAR 1:> ENOINI. ... 
SO FAR "BEHI~D TIIAT IlL
1\NO l HAVENT 
NEVER CATtH UP! l :,TILL
~E ANY OF MY 
1\AV£ ~I'm !'1\I'I:RS l1J 10!
V«ltll:. 
\ 



The Daily Crossword 

©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
n ·s IOI'£l.f<os ... 
fllTI!fR, WltAI ~M l C.OING TO 
t>o? 

W!Mf WE PO,HERE AT NOTI!E f:l111£: 15 OFF£!: )()U A 11!te.KA4E PEAL . IF rou awE-ro ~MHC:, You iT()ftV 
77-iE' Akl11?E PAH£ CDHHUNIT'I, /JDT J'UST IITTENP CLA"££S. IT's~ PRACTISE: IN 111£ EPUCA 11DAI BV51NE5.5 
Jeb Cashin 
T!LL ME, 'PI\C:JftS~, 
WEllE lOO UKf THI:) 
Fr.:> A STlJI'>E/o\1? 
~.~. 
t wAS 
f't(j{j1 
w:Jtl'l>E. 

Coolidge 41 Embossment ending plant 
17 Japanese 42 Come­
aborigine good (end 18 Wireless in failure) 19 Roman road 43 Feels bad 20 Flowers 44 Depart 23 Pronoun 45 Pageof 24 Harbor: music 
abbr. 47 Played 25 Defensively (a guitar) 
covered 49 Corrida 30 Flocks cheer

Tuesday's Solution 

65 More scarce 66 White House office 67 Disagree­
ably moist 68 Kefauver 69 Type of 
flower 
DOWN Fictional captain 
2 Bucket, 
of a kind 3 Arm bone 4 Flower 5 Most 
co"fident 6 Shallow 
container 7 Assistant 8 Domestic 
helpers 9 Morning 
star 10 Flower 11 Cordage 

fiber 12 English gun 28 Toiletry 
case 29 Puppets 31 Flower 32 Vision 33 -off 
(forestall) 36 R.I.P. word 38 Coaster 40 Price of 
train ride 44 Moon 46 Also 48 Streams 50 Lab burners 52 Be ahead 53 "My Friend, 
" 
54 Legal 
holding 55 Jerk 56 Trumpeter 
AI 57 Robt.­58 Volcano 
output 59 And others: Lat. 60 Shout 

Campus 
•12 
p.m. -Slide/tape Presentation, "0 Wes­tern Star". Professor Paul Roche, 242 O'Shaughnessy Hall, Sponsored by General Program of Liberal Studies 

•2:20 
p.m., and 4:30p.m. -Far East Film Series, "Japanese Art From Land" , and "Discovering the Music ofJapan", 349 Madeleva Hall, Sponsored by SMC Department of Music 

•3:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Generation of Instability Waves at a Leading Edge" Dr. Marvin Goldstein, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 

• 
3:30p.m. -Lacrosse, ND vs. Ohio State, Alumni field 

•4 
p.m.-Awards Ceremony, AFROTC Awards Ceremony, Library Auditorium 

•4 
p.m. -Lecture, University of Notre Dame Visitors in Architecture, George Kassahaum, Ar­chitecture Auditorium, Sponsored by Architecture Department 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Question of Reduc­tionism: Physics Versus Biology ami Microevolu­tion Verses Macroevolution" Dr. Francisco). Ayala, University of California, Galvin Life Science Auditorium, Sponsored by Biology Department 

•4:30 
p.m.-Chemistry Seminar, "Applications of HPLC Methodology in the Isolation of Glycos­phingolipids" Prof. Robert H. McCluer, Room 123 Nieuwland Science Hall, Sponsored by Chemistry Department 

•7 
p.m.-Lecture, "The Ethics of Nuclear War", Prof. Stanley Hauerwas, ND , Hayes-Healy Auditorium, Sponsored by Campus Ministry 

•7 
p.m., 9:15 p.m. and II:15 p.m. -Film, "The Champ", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Women's Fast Pitch Softball, Jt.OO 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Kandinsky Stripped Bare b) His Critics", Dr. Kenneth C. Lindasy, Annenberg Auditorium 

•8: 
15 p.m. -Concert, Faculty Cello Recital, Karen Buranskas, Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Music Department 

•8: 
15 p.m. -Concert, Kenny Rogers with Larry Gatlin and the Gatlin Brothers, ACC, S I 5 and Sl2.50 



T.V. Tonight 
7:00p.m. 16 Real Prople 22 Herbie, The Love Bug 28 Greatest American Hero 
~  Channel 34  Auction "Up, Up, and  
Away"  
8:00p.m_  16  Factsofute  

22 CBS Special Movie Pre5entatlon: "A Question ofHonor" 
28 The Fall Guy 8:30p.m. 16 Teachers Only 9:00p.m. 16 Quincy 
28 Dynasty 
!O:OOp.m. 16 NC'WSCcnter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 
!0:30p.m. 16 1be Tonight Show 22 CBS Movie: "Kingdom ofthe Spiders" 28 ABC News Nightllne 
tt:OOp.m. 28 Love Boat 11:30p.m. 16 Late Night with David Letterman 
WILL YOU BE THE NEXT 
MOLINELLI? 
The Obsert'er is looking t<>r new 
cartoon strips ( 4-panel, 1-panel, etc.). Submit idea and sample of work hy S:OO pm Friday, 
April jO to The Obsen,er office, 
3rd tloor Lafortune 
.... 
• 

ACROSS 1 Lie adja­cent to 5 Tax for 
mailing 10 -facto 14 Aureole 15 Heep 16 Moreno or 
34 Willow 35 Corrida animal 
37 Table 
scraps 39 Getzor Kenton 
40 Straight­edge 
51 -minute 
(soon) 52 Flower 61 Assam 

silkworm 62 Like a weak 
old woman 63 Not on time 64 Prayer 
13 Rowboat items 21 Bleaching 
vat 22 Indian 25 Entertainer 26 Prevent 
legally 27 Climbing 
~********************************** 
: Premier: Plays 1982-83 : Starring: The Student Players : Directed & Produced by: ? (why not you!?) 
* 
:Applicationsfor producer and for director of :plays are being accepted. Pick up your ~ iapplication in the Student Union Offices, ~ :2nd floor Lafortune. deadline 4130 · 
*
* 
:•*************A star could be born***** 
***********************************~--------~ 
•



,. ,
...................................................................................................................................................... 
~ SENIOR BAR ~ 
~ Be Dating! ~ ~ It's the finQI WednesdQ,Y Night DtQft ~ 
~  Special Before Finals!  ;~~~~  
~! Special on MOLSON also!  ~ ~  
~  BETHERE!!!!!!  ~  
~  ~en  1~2  ~  
~  Lunch hours: Tues &Thurs 12-2  "  ~  ..  
~ 
................................................................................................  ..................................................  

-
~ 


Wednesday, April 28, 1982 -page 12 

See jane Healey's article below. (photo by Rudy Perez) 
Women's tennis 
Irish end season on winning note 
ByJANE HEALEY 
Sports Writer 
The cold temperatures and strong winds tried to spoil the afternoon, but the Notre Dame women's tennis team was determined to end its spring season on a winning note. The Irish achieved their goal by defeating Northern Illinois, 7-2, and 
.. finishing their spring season at 3-9. 
Lisa Lafratta got the team off to a good start by winning her No. 1 singles match easily, 6-1,6-1. La Frat­
ta surprised her opponent, Jackie Rotsaert, with some unbelievable returns. 
Notre Dame's first loss came at No. 2 singles as Linda Hoyer suffered a 4-6, 3-6 defeat at the hands of Linda Muller. ''I'm having a rough season," commented Hoyer after her match. "I can't expect things to just come easy to me. I have to get tough and take it one step at a'time." 
Pam Fischette continued her ~pectacular spring season with a 6-2, 
7-5 win at No. 3 singles. Fischette simply over-powered her opponent with smart tennis. "I was really psyched about playing because it was nice to see the sun," Fischette remarked. She then added sarcasti­cally, "It was a little breezy, but the 
sun made up for that." 

In a brillant showing at No. 4 singles, Lisa Gleason shutout Kathy Jessup, 6-0, 6-0. Gleason's strength was a powerful serve that was too much for Jessup to handle. 
Senior Carol Shukis lost a 
heartbreaker at No. 5 singles by 
scores of7-6, 1-6, and 6-7. And it was 
the solid baseline game of Laura Lee 
at No. 6 singles that downed Geri 
Kowal, 6-3, 6-I. 
Turning to the doubles action, Notre Dame had a tough time with its first two matches. 

The team of La Fratta and Hoyer lost its first set, 3-6, and then easily won the second set, 6-1. Hoyer caught a second wind that carried them through the last set with a 7-6 win. The victory was decided with by a 7-2 tie-breaker. 
Fischette and Gleason also dropped their first set to Renee Grat­ham and Carla Serma, 5-7. But with the superb play of Gleason, the two rallied to win, 7-5, 7-6. That tie­breaker also ended with a 7-2 score. 
The only easy doubles victory of the day came when Lee teamed up with Camille Cooper to defeat Jes­sup and Claudia Vana, 6-3,6-2 at No. 3 doubles. 
Sighing with reliefafter the end of the Fischette-Gieason match, Coach Sharon Petro remarked, "We lacked intensity in our doubles, but they came on in the end." Overall Petro said that she was pleased with her team's performance. 
Yesterday's match marked the end ofthe Notre Dame women's ten­nis season. The Irish ended the year with a 13-10 record. With regular competition over, the team now will prepare for the AlAW Division II Regional Championships in Ed­wardsville, Ill. on May 14 and 15. 


·1VFLdraft 
Sirns chosen first by Patriot..~ 
NEW YORK (AP) -Ken Sims, a 265-pound defensive tackle from the University of Texas, was chosen by the New England Patriots yester­day, as they had announced previously, as the National Football League began its two-day draft of 
college talent. 
The type of player who can dominate the line of scrimmage, Sims made 81 solo tackles last year, assisted on 29 others, had 10 sacks, pressured the passer 32 times, broke up four passes and forced six fumbles. 
• The selection ofSims opened the first of 12 rounds. The 28 NFL teams had I 5 minutes to make their selec­tions in each of the first two rounds and five minutes in each round thereafter. 
Meanwhile, the Baltimore Colts were pondering their first-round pick. The Patriots were the only team to lose .to Baltimore twice, in 
the first and last games ofthe season. 
The Colts selected Johnie Cooks, an imposing 240-pound linebacker from Mississippi State. Cooks has tremendous range and can play inside or outside linebacker. 
The third selection belonged to ..-New Orleans, but the Saints had ex­ercised that pick last year when, in a special supplemental draft, they selected quarterback Dave Wilson, whose eligibility at Illinois had run out. 
That brought up the Cleveland Browns, who took another lineback­er, Chip Banks, a 230-pounder from Southern Cal, who led the Trojans in tackles his junior and senior years. 
As soon as the Browns' selection was announced, Rozelle dropped the first bombshell of the draft, announcing that the Colts had signed discontented quarterback Bert Jones and promptly traded him 
See DRAFT, page 10 




One for the road: Items examines itself 

Bill Marquard
Sports Writer 
Irish Items 
(EDITOR'S NOTE: Because ofa sudden attack of"senior/tis," Bill Marquard has been unable to write his Irish Items column the last Jew weeks, but returns todayfor a final look at the world ofNotre Dame athletics.) 
SWAN SONG -What better way to close out Irish Items than to 
turn the column back and examine itself: · 
This is the 54th edition ofIrish Items. The first column appeared 
on these pages on April 9, 1980, and continued weekly until the 
most recent article on March 10. The average length of Irish Items 
has been 1,152 words, and the column has occupied a mean of 16.5 
column inches in the paper each week. Counting 54 columns, that 
has been a total of 62,208 words. If each column had been placed 
end-to-end starting with that April 9, 1980, edition, they would 
stretch close to 75 feet. 
FAVORITE PERSONALITIES-The last time (of many) that Dan 
Devine was mentioned tongue-in-cheek was back on April 29, 1981, 
when this corner wondered why the annual Blue-Gold Game pitted 
the Green team versus the White team. 
MIXED REVIEWS -Under the watchful eye of Irish Items, the Notre Dame football team managed a 14-8-I record while the Irish roundballers amassed a 33-23 mark. 
UNDER CONTROL -During its two-year-plus existence, Items has been written under no less than four different Observer sports editors. Conceived under the young editorship of Beth Huffman in the spring of 1980, Items has also been copy-edited by Michael Ortman, Skip Desjardin and now Chris Needles. The last Observer sports editor to complete a full term in the position was Huffman, who held the job from April of 1980 to April of 1981. Thus, the pressures on the Observer sports editor could easily be-correlated with that on Notre Dame's head football coach or on the New York Yankees manager of the week. 
OPEN MOUTH, INSERT TYPEWRITER -Proving that the power 
ofthe typewriter (or the CRT) is almost as reliable as that ofa crystal 
ball, most ofyou have probably forgotten these great notes ofItems 
past ...: 
•(Sept. 
16, prior to the football team's 25-7 thrashing at Michigan): "It came sooner than anyone expected, or even hoped for, but the Irish are already atop the nation's college football polls." 

•(Sept. 
23, prior to Notre Dame's second straight defeat of the season at Purdue}: "Ifyou like to play the odds, bet on the Irish this weekend. Along with the fact that the Michigan game was Gerry Faust's first coaching loss in 34 games, the last time that a Faust­coached team suffered two straight defeats was way back in 1967 when Faust's Moeller Crusaders lost back-to-back games to league foes Elder and Roger Bacon." 

•(Sept. 
23, after ABC Sports decided not to televise the Penn State­Nebraska game): "This schedule change fuels the rumor mills that ABC will forsake the traditional Ohio State-Michigan battle in order to televise the Notre Dame-Penn State game..." 

•(Sept. 
29, after the Irish loss to Purdue): "In the event that Notre Dame does not win a national championship this season, this senior class will be the first one since the 1973 graduates to go through Notre Dame without experiencing a national football champion­ship." 

•(Oct. 
28, when the USC loss made the Irish record 2-4): "Had the Irish scored 20 points in each oftheir games this season, they would be 5-l." 


•( Nov. I 1): Notre Dame's twin wins over ...Navy and Georgia Tech mark the first time the Irish have won two straight games since upending Alabama and Air Force last season." 
•(And finally, Dec. 2, after Notre Dame lost to Miami 37-15): "Friday's game in Miami assured the Irish of their first losing season since 1963 and snapped their string ofconsecutive winning seasons at 17." 
Successful positive predictions were also few on the basketball front ...: 
•(
Oct. 14, Digger Phelps sermonizes on the upcoming basketball season): "Nobody thinks we can win 20 games and go to the NCAA tournament again. That's fine -I hope the teams we play feel that way too -because all season long we're going to sneak up and surprise people." 

•(
Dec. 9, Digger Phelps talking to a crew ofreporters after the UCLA game): "Thank you. This is probably the largest press conference I'll be at this year . _ .I'm glad it was quick ...Have a nice New Year ...We'll see you next year when we play Kentucky, UCLA and Indiana in the same week." 

•(Dec. 
2, prior to Larry Farmer's inaugural visit to the ACC as UCLA head coach): "On the last three occasions that a new UCLA coach has entered the ACC for the first time, Notre Dame has emerged vic­torious." 

•(Dec. 
9, after UCLA.'s 75-49 win): "Notre Dame's 26-point loss to UCLA on Saturday was the worst loss in the history of the ACC." 

•(
Nov. 18, while discussing the I981-82 basketball schedule): "Every Notre Dame basketball game will be televised this year." 

•(
Feb. 17, after NBC cancelled the Michigan-Notre Dame telecast, an unnamed NBC source said): "It is a worthless game between two worthless teams." 


See ITEMS, page 10 





