... MoronJ' -page 6 

VOL XVI, NO. 131 the: imkpc:mknt student nc:wspapc:r sc:n·ing notre: Jamc: and saint mary's MONDAY, APRIL 19, 1982 
Embassyconfirms 
Trudeautospeakatcommencement 
By DAVID SARPHIE 
News Editor 
The Canadian embassy contlrmed 
for The Obsen1er Friday that 
Canadian Prime: Minister Pierre 
Trudeau will make the commence­
ment address to the: 1982 graduating 
class of Notre Oamt·. 
Notre Dame's Department of In­formation Services declined to make the announcement official until all honorary degree recipients had respondnl to their commencement invitations. 
The l'irst Secretary Press Officer at the Canadian embassy in Washing­ton, D.C., however, contlrmed that "Trudeau has been placed on the of­lkial embassy calendar to give the commencement address at Notre Dame on May 16." 
Trudeau will also receive an honorary degree: at the commence­ment exercises. 
Except for a brief period in 1979 when conservative joe Clark took control, the Liberal Trudeau has served as Canada's Prime Minister since 196R 
Trudeau was born on October 18, 1919 in Momreal. The son of a wealthy Montreal lawyer, Charles­Emile Trudeau and his wife, Grace, Trudeau grew up in a household spt'aking both French and English. 
Trudeau graduated with honors from jean de Brebeuf College in Montreal in 1940 and three years later received a law degree from the University of Montreal. He received a master's degree in political economy from Harvard in 1945 and later studied at the Ecole des Sciences Po/ltiques in Paris and at the London School of Economics. 
llis Interests in politics brought Trudeau back to Montreal in 1949, where he taught constitutional law and civillibenles at the University of 

Saint Mary's student assaulted while jogging 

Montreal. As editor of a political review Cite Libre, he denounced the administration of Quebec's Premier Maurice Duplessis. 
He helped torm the Rassemble­ment, an elite, political organization that helped renew Quebec's Liberal Party. With the aid of this group, the Liberal Party won the 1960 provin­cial election. 
An advocate of Canadian federalism, Trudeau rejected the quiet revolution of Liberal jean Lesage, who hoped to strengthen Quebec's French characteristics. Trudeau also opposed the national Liberal party at this time but soon 
By MARGARET FOSMOE 
Saint Mary•'s Executir'e Editor 
A Saint Mary's student was as­saulted in the vicinity of Saint Joseph's Hall while jogging near Saint joseph's Lake yesterday at ap­proximentally I p.m. 
The assailant was discribed as a white college-age male of medium build with a thick, muscular neck. His height was estimated at between 5-9 and 6 foot. At the time of the as­sault he was wearing a red and white jersey t-shirt. 
According to University sources, the student was jogging on the path around the lake when she was grabbed from behind by the as­sailant, who was apparently hiding nearby. 
The victim struggled with the as­sailant until she was able to break away and run for help. 
According to reports, the victim deeply scratched both sides of the 

(])server winsawards in state competition 
The Observer garnered 12 state journalism awards at this year's presentation of the Indiana Col­legiate Press Association awards, held Saturday at Franklin College in l'ranklin, IN. 
This year's conference marked the 25th anniversary of the Associa­tion. 
Former Obseroer Sports Editor Skip Desjardin received a first place Best Column award for his column "Don't Bother with Tears," concern­ing the NCAA probation of UCLA and Miami. 
In the same category, former Sponswriter Craig Chval earned a third place award for his column, "Gibbons not Tapped in Draft." 
In the category of Best Inves­tigative Story, tormer Senior Staff Reporter john M. Higgins won first place honors for his story, "City Reacts to Strip Search," concerning the police strip search ofeight Saint 
Mary's  students  arrested  for  un­ 
derage drinking  
Desjardin  also  earned  a  third  

place Best Sports Story award for his story "Coaches Criticize Billy and AI." 

Former Saint Mary's Execuuve Editor Mary Agnes Carey received an honorable mention in the Best News Story category for her "N.D. Continues Boycott" story, dealing with the Libby-McNeil boycott. 
Former News Editor Tim Vercel­lotti earned a honorable mention for Best News Analysis for his Inside column, "In Search ofa Dialogue." 
Jeb Cashin received two awards for his Observer cartoons. He earned a first place in the Best Comic Car­toon category for his comic strip "Simon" and an honorable mention in the Best Editorial Cartoon category for "Strike." 
Michael Molinelli's "Molarity" 
comic strip gained a second place 
for Best Comic Cartoon. 
Chris Owen, Advertising Manager, received a third place award for Best Art in an Ad for his "Jamboree Tickets" advertisment. 
The Observer received two other 
honorable mentions for Best Make­
Up of a Single Issue for its Special 
Football Edition and Best Front Page 
Make-Up for the Oct. 27 issue. 
The Obseroer came in fourth place 
overall. 
changed his stand. In 1965, he en­tered the House of Commons, hoping to moderate Liberal stances from within. 
Two years later, Trudeau was ap­pointed Minister of Justice and At­torney General for Prime Minister Lester Pearson's administration. 
He was elected the Leader of the 
Liberal Party of Canada in April, 
1968 and was sworn in as Canada's 
15th Prime Minister only two weeks 
later. 
As Prime Minister, Trudeau has in­
creased Canada's independence 
See TRUDEAU, page 3 
assailant's neck before freeing her­self. The victim immediately con­tacted friends, who informed authorities. The victim was taken to Saint joseph's Hospital by a female ND security guard and the victim's hall director and released later in the day. 


Hesburgh journals El Salvadortrip 
Editor's note: The following is the first of a series of edited excerpts taken from the diary of University Presient Theodore Hesburgh during his recent trip to El Salvador as part of the United States official ob­server team for the Salvadoran elec­tions. 
Thursday March 25 

I left the University about six o'clock and flew to Washington via Chicago. I was checking into the Mayflower when I met Tom Scanlon and his friend, Faith. We went out to a small restaurant for some good conversation and a bowl of soup before turning in. There is always a good deal of anticipation before doing something the first time, and this is the first time I have ever taken off to inspect an election in a war­torn country. 
Friday March 26 
Up on schedule for Mass and a quick trip to the State Department where I arrived about 7:30 a.m. There were two vans in front where we deposited our luggage, and after the whole group, mostly State Department and Congressional aides, had gathered, we took the two vans and went to Andrews Air Force Base. We took off about 9:10, once 
the two Congressmen and Senator Kassebaum had arrived. Those of us from the official delegation were Senator Nancy Landon Kassebaum (R-Kansas), the chairman; Repre­sentative Robert L. Livingston ( R­Louisiana); Representative john P. Murtha (D-Pennsylvania), and myself. Also Everett E. (Ted) Briggs., Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for lnteramerican Affairs joined us. Clark Kerr is coming down from California on private transportation, and our other two members, Richard Scammon and Howard Pen­niman, are already in El Salvador. 
There was a large group of press awaiting us at the airport, and Senator Kassebaum read the statem­ment we had prepared aboard the airplane en route. We then hustled into a well-armed convoy of two carry-alls, one jeep full of machine gunners and a back-up vehicle, plus the Ambassador's armored Cadillic. 
I noted right away that we had heavily armed guards, both in the front seat and in the back seat ,with me, and that all of the windows had been reinforced with bullet-proof glass, and the sides of the vehicle were covered with lrmor on the inside. I assume they had reinforced the bottom for land mines, too. 


a&~OCUS 
We went along at fairly high speed up the highway from the airport and the coast to the capital of San Sal­vador, passing through red lights and keeping ourselves in a very tight convoy, so that one car could not be separated from the others and we had all ofour fire power intact. From this time onward, none of us went anywhere without being accom­panied by an armed guard, all of whom caried not only an automatic revolver but also a briefcase contain­ing an Israeli' Uzi machine gun that fires 600 rounds a minute. Our guards are also constantly at work with their walkie-talkie radios with instant communication to the Com­man Post regarding our whereabouts. One quickly got the idea that we were in the middle of a war zone. 
After a fairly high speed trip through town, we checked in at the 
Hotel Presidente which is owned by the government. Here again one noticed enormous security coverage at every entrance. 1 also met Ernesto Sol in the lobby. He is an alumnus who will accompany me on my ofthe visits here. We were good friends when he was a student at Notre Dame some years ago, before attending Harvard Business School. 
Soon after checking in, we had to be photographed to prepare our 
l.D.s which we will wear at all times. I also rendezvoused with Clark Kerr who had just arrived this morning, and with Scammon and Penniman who have been checking out the election process. The latter two told us that voting preparations are as good as might be and better than most ofour processes at home, in an effort to eliminate all fraud in this election. 
Early in the afternoon, we went to the Presidential Palace where notewonhy observers were stop­ping by to be greeted by President jose Napolean Duarte ('48), a for­mer student of mine and an old friend. My guard, who I assume Is staying with me the whole time, is jay Goodrich. We had a good visit with President Duarte and then went over to the election headquar­ters to meet jorge Bustamante, president of the Election Commis­sion established by the government to insure a fair election. We went through all of the procedures with him, and he gave me an unnumbered ballot, which is thereby invalid, and also marked my finger with the dye which they use to show that someone has voted. It only show up under ultraviolet light. They are using this so that guerillas cannot 
identify voters and kill them as they 
See HESBURGH, page 4 




News Brie/§ 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
The memorialfund for Tom Perruccio, who died of heart failure early Thursday morning, is "going quite well," said spokesman for the fund Jim DiMaria "We just ask for the continued support (of the students)," he said. The collection for the fund, which will help defray TT~edical costs of the Perruccio family, con­tinues tonight at both dining halls during dinner hours. -The Ob­setVer 
Formez President Carter rejected a simul­
taneous military attack and rescue mission to free the U.S. hostages 
in Iran just one day before the aborted rescue attempt, his former 
national security adviser says. In an article in yesterday's New York 
Times Magazine, Zbigniew Brzezinski says he urged a broader at­
tack to prevent national humiliation in case the April 24, 1980 
rescue attempt failed. But Carter feared an attack would complicate 
rescue ofthe 52 hostages then held by militants who seized the U.S. 
Embassy in Tehran on Nov. 4, 1979, Brzezinski said. The rescue ef­
fort was aborted in the Iranian desert after three ofeight helicopters 
were disabled. A helicopter and a C130 transport plane then 
collided, killing eight U.S. servicemen. Iran freed the hostages Jan. 
20, 1981 after 444 days of captivity, just after Ronald Reagan 
succeeded Carter as president. -AP 

Simulatednuclear bombswere ceremoniously "detonated" on the steps ofthe Texas capitol, at a downtown Atlanta 
parkand othercitycenters yesterday, as Ground Zero Week brought 
home to Americans the specter of atomic destruction. The week 
opened with films, foot races, bicycle tours, concerts, lectures and 
debates designed to trigger discussions about the possibility of 
nuclear war and its effects. This crash course in nuclear awareness 
has been planned for two years by Ground Zero, a non-partisan or­
ganization formed two years ago. Ground Zero estimates 10 million 
to 20 million people ln 650 communities and on 350 college 
campuses will take part. "I hope we come out of this week with 
people feeling freer to discuss the nuclear war issue and_not tuck it 
away," said Beverly Peyser, New York coordinator for Ground Zero 
week. "We're rational people and we have to deal with these things." Seven members of the Columbia University track team staged a 74­block "Run for Peace" from midtown Manhattan to the University campus yesterday. A program and benefit concert, featuring dramatic presentations by actors Michael Moriarity and Tammy Grimes, was scheduled later in New York. -AP 
Deputy Secretary of State Walter Stoessel 
shuttled back to Israel from Egypt yesterday seeking to smooth out the last snags in Israel's Sinai withdrawal. Tension mounted among opponents of the withdraw! as Jewish extremists, most believed to be Americans, threatened to kill themselves if the army tries to evacuate them from the Israeli town of Yamit, in the Sinai. Israel Radio said the government had decided to begin the evacuation of Yamit today. Stoessel was to meet with Begin late yesterday. On arrival here, Stoessel was told by Deputy Foreign Minister Y ehuda Ben-Meir that Begin had "some important things" to tell him. Stoes­sel said on leaving Cairo that he was confident ofsuccess, and at the airport in Israel he said he looked forward "to going over again where we now stand and the progress we have made." He was ex­pected to remain here through the Wednesday Cabinet meeting and the arrival ofEgyptian Foreign Minist-er Kamal Hassan Aly. -AP 
Violent crimes by assailants who did not know their victims occurred at an "exceedingly stable" rate in the 1970s despite a growing fear of street crime by strangers, the Justice Department reported yesterday. Its Bureau ofJustice Statisics said that from 1973 through 1979, fewer than three offive violent crimes were committed by people who were not relatives or acquaintances oftheir victims. Robbery most frequently was perpetrated by stran­
gers, in 76 percent of the cases, followed by rape at 65 percent, aggravated assault at 56 percent and simple assault at 53 percent.. Because there are more than twice as many assaults as rapes and robberies, the percent ofall violent crimes by strangerscame to 59. "The rate at which strangers committed rapes, robberies, and asaults was exceedingly stable, averaging 19.6 per 1,000 in the population ofpersons 12 years old and more, from 1973 through 1979," said the Bureau's Acting Director, Benjamin Renshaw. "On the other hand, the rate of violent crime by non-strangers increased from 10.7 per 1,000 persons to 12.0 per 1,000 in the seven-year period," he added. 
-AP 

The broadcast by "Radio Solidarity" 
lasted only eight minutes over 70.1 on the FM dial, but it was the boldest action yet by Poland's underground union movement. Until that clandestine broadcast April 12, Solidarity's underground ac­tivities were confined to the distribution of crudely printed, often hard to read leaflets and bulletins passed hand-to-hand But despite the broadcast, the first by the independent union since it was suspended when Gen. WojciechJaruzelskideclared martial law Dec. 13, the union underground is still small. "The goals of the union at the moment remain obscure," a Polish journalist said. "Having been driven underground, it has also had its aims reduced to the status of . pious wishes." Said another Pole who has had contact with inde­pendent unionists: "Whenever you speak to these people, they al­ways say that they are getting ready for a general protest and that they will never give up. "But they probably don't know themselves yet what this general protest should be like and when it should take place." -AP 
Breezy and mlld today with a 60 percent chance ot showers during the afternoon. High in low to mid 60s. An 80 percent chance of thundershowers tonight. Low in the mid 40s. Mostly cloudyand cooler tomorrowwith a goodchanceofshowers. High in the \ij)pe.f 40s. -AP 
Monday, April19, 1.982-page 2 

Questions about questions 


Our fondest memories are probably not about stan­dardized tests. Ifwe score low, we despise the tests; if we score high, others despise us. 
So blame it all on the people who make the tests, 
primarily the Educational Testing Service, those nasty 
people who give us trick questions and shape the des­
tiny ofour lives. 

At least that's what Ralph Nader would like us to do. Nader isn't really too fond ofthe ETS Corporation that is so big that it has its own zip code. In fact, Nader and his sidekick Allan Naird spent 550 pages in their 1980 book, "The Reign ofETS," condemning the corporation for prospering financially off illegitimate tests. 
But most ofus haven't gone to that much trouble. The SAT, GRE, MCAT, GMAT, and LSAT don't anger us as much as they annoy us -kind of like Emil quizzes. They're just a pain. And that's probably why more and more students are running to test preparation schools in order to conquer the tests. 
And that's also probably why Stanley H. Kaplan was asked to speak to 170 anxious preprofessional students two weeks ago at Notre Dame. Kaplan is the king of these "coaching schools," the founder ofthe largest na­tional chain ofpreparation schools. 
Kaplan claims that his schools (which he prefers to 

call "supplementary educa­tion, creativity, or native
GUIDING INFLUENCES
tion") can raise scores quite talent . . . They measure considerably. An SAT score ability."
FOR THE COLLEGE-BOUND 
can go up as much as 140 Consequently, ETS does points on a 200-800 point not expect its tests to be
STUDE~T:
scale, and an MCAT score God's gifts to admission can increase 6 points on a boards. Too many other fac­IS-point scale. Curiously tors both objective and sub­
enough, ETS has never ad­mitted to this possibility. It claims that "coaching " has an insignificant effect, espe­cially on students who have done well in school all along. A student trying to raise a 12 MCAT score to a 14 might do even worse af­ter taking a Kaplan course. 

In 1979, the Federal Trade Commission decided •to check out the con­troversy. Maybe ETS was right. Maybe schools such as Kaplan's (at a cost of $350) are unfair to consumers. In its famed conclusion, FTC announced that coaching schools were undeniably effective. 
ETS President William Turnbell said, "My world would not come crashing down if it was proved that coaching has an effect." But ETS still says that coaching has no effect. 
There is somethingdisturbing in Turnbell's remark. If coaching does have an effect, wouldn't that fact jeop­ardize the objectivity and validity ofstandardized tests? How can a test measure ability ifability can be gained in a three-week course.? 
It's hard to say. Kaplan himself never claims that the success ofhis schools somehow invalidates the standar­dization part of standardized tests. "The test(s) reflect knowledge regardless of how the knowledge is ob­tained." 
The problem is that only those stu<.knts with s:;5o to 
burn can take a Kaplan class. (To be sure, Kaplan does 
Design Editor .............................. Tim Neely Design Assistants ................... Kay HpUand Typesetters ............................. Bruce Oakley Mark Miotto News Editor .................................. Vic SciuUi Copy Editors ...................... Cindy Coldiron Valerie Evans Features Layout ..................)oe Musumeci Sports Copy Editor .............. Chris Needles Typtst ................................... .John McCanhy Tari Brown....Mike Onman Tom MacLennan ND Day Editor ................. Karen McMahon Dave Grote SMC Day Edt/or .................. Kathy Zuschin Ad Design .................................. )ohn & Tom Photographer ......................... Cheryl Enelt Guest Appearances.......... Boogie Boards Newpon Beach Sand Surf  
The Observer (USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Mary s Col· lege Subscnp11ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wrn1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 The Observer IS a member of The Aasocl8led Press All reproduction nghts are reserved Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556  


FIRST SESSION SECOND SESSION 
Tuesday, June 1 thru Tuesday, July 6 thru 
Thursday, July 1 Friday, August 6 
l\10RE THA:\: 250 COl JRSE OFFERI\:GS. 
STUDENT HOUSING AVAILABLE NOW! Send for the eurrent Summer Hulletin. Simply fill in the coupon and mail today. 
215 951•'1-»34 

""An Equal Opportunity College"" Or, ifyou prefer, call: ~ 
··----····-···--------------·~



; LaSalle College SUMMER'82 i 
I Olney Avenue at 20th Street Philadelphia, Pa. 19141 I 
; Please mail me Summer Sessions Bulletin : 
I Name I 
I I
I Address I 
I Cily/Stalel7.ip !'hone I 


~--·-·····------------------~ 
Bob Vonderheide 

Associate NewsEditor 

Inside Monday 
offer a limited amount offinancial assistance.) But ifyou can't afford it or don't want to, too bad. 
That's probably why ETS has never condoned the coaching schools, for ifit did, it would have to answer a lot of questions about discrimination. ETS prefers to leave that can of worms unopened. They sort of look around the problem of test preparation schools by saying that all they can do is make fair, objective tests. And they can't be expected to solve the nation's finan­cial inequities. 
ETS SpokesmanJohn Smith says the tests do measure developed ability no matter how you slice it. That alone should guarantee the tests' validity. "What needs to be emphasized," said Princeton's Director of Admission James Wickenden," and what ETS has said all along, is that the SAT's are not in­tended to measure motiva­
jective also can predict how a student will perform in school. Notre Dame realizes this fact and does not use any test score as the sole or even the most important criterion in determining un­dergraduate or graduate ad­
'IA-~ missions. Realistically, that is the 

only possible bottom line. The tests themselves are valid, and when used correct­­ly, they provide the needed standard to compare stu­dents coming from various backgrounds. 
We should accept, ifnot believe, that the ETS is doing the best job it can, even if it does make big bucks in doing so. The real problem, and the one that should be the focus ofNaderand the gang, is the American educa­tional system. 
The tests, as Kaplan says, have an educational bias. If Johnny can't examine word analogies because his teac­her had to discipline and not teach literature, he can't be expected to score very high. When black students score 20 percent lower than whites, we should not cry discrimination but incompetent education. 
Test scores are declining at accelerated rates, but it isn't coincidence that some Kaplan students ex­perience just the opposite. There is nothingwrong with Kaplan's schools at all. He is just providing competent education, however supplementary, at a time when American education is not. 



The Observer Monday, Aprill9, 1982-page 3 

On&oadway 






Students protest anns buildup 
By DAVlD SARPHIE According to Tharp, reaction to 
NewsEdttor the protest was generally positive. "We received especially good reac­tion from older people, which I 
Two Notre Dame students were didn't expect," he said. "They really among the 50 demonstrators who seemed to appreciate what we were marched down Broadway on Good trying to do." Friday to protest the worldwide Tharp and Cosgrove both singled 
buildup ofnuclear arms. out one incident that seemed to 
Barry Tharp, a senior General symbolize police reaction to the Program major and joe Cosgrove, a protest. "An old nun who was third year law student, helped carry marching with u~; in the protest was a symbolic cross down the major knocked down by the police," 
New York thoroughfare as part of a dc:mon:o.tration led by the controver­sial Catholic priest Fr. Dan Berrigan. 
Formerambassadorto Approximately 20 Columbia Uni­vcrb.ty student!> also participared, as did mc:mbcrs ofthe clt-rgy ofvarious 
Zambiatospeaktonight
faith~. 
Sixtct·n people were arrested for By MARGARET FOSMOE lliMlrderly conduct in the march, S<1lnt Mary·s Exec:t~tive Edttor which began at Columbia llniver­~ity, wound through the upper weM Jean Wilkowski, former U.S. am· side of Manhauan. and llnished at bassador to Zambia and the United the Riverside Research Institute. Nations, will present a speech on Along the way, protesters dis­diplomacy, "Foreign Affairs: For tributed leaflets which depleted the Diplomats Only?," tonight at 8 p.m. Pentagon-funded Institute, which in the Memorial Libr--o~.ry Auditorium. researches and develops nuder Wilkowski will speak as the fifth weapons technology, as a think tank lecturer in Notre Dame's whoNe purpose is "to imagine and "Distinguish~d American Women" develop ways 10 kill people who, in lecture series, celebrating a decade Christ, are our brothers and sister." ofcoeducation at the University. 
Cosgrove described the institute The first woman named as ambas­as "a little, hidden building that sador to Africa, Wilkowski advoca­loolced more like a warehouse than a ted a policy change toward more place where the destruction of the active support of majority rule in world was being planned." Rhodesia, now independent Zim­
He noted that the symbolism of babwe. the cross was an Integral part oftheir In 1979 Wilkowski and Notre demonstration, relating the Dame President Fr. Theodore Hes­Crucifixion of Christ to the impend­burgh were U.S. ambassadors to a ing destruction ofthe world through Vienna United Nations conference nuclear armaments. "The on the transfer of technology from Crucifixion 1lo(jlS not a single inci­developed to undeveloped dent, but has been continuing for countries. 2000 years," he maintained. "The Wilkowski was recently named police arc protecting a modern day vice chairman of the board ofdirec­Calvary by protecting places like tors of Volunteers in Technical As­that (the Riverside Research In­sistance, an organization serving the stitute). They arc similr to the Cen­technological needs ofThird World turions InJerusalem." nations. 
ru... "TIM L41at lpt.s..1c. IWd&e:d 
Conalfq\lenu• .,, 'tNc lear W.r" 
Lecture • ''Sue: t;;;, A~-n.. Hidden
Ubrary ~ Uor h.­
Co•• of Def~tnH Sp4Mln1" by "•· Patrice4100 •••. 
Franko, Doctoral Candidate ln lconc.ics 
Grouv (or ''" u4 H..n ··~.:. ~.y ,.,.. Church lf bad we•th•r) "•"~~· John rau..nld, C.S.C., Calabr.nc 
1:00 •••. 
Iouth Qu.t.d 
"!00 , .... 
FU1111 -'"ltw 341., Atur Tl'lnUy: J. Iobue.
ltbun Aw.llturl"" 
(tpp•r.~d'flet nJ ~ M A.~011oic a..b'' (Ac:ad•y Aw.ud noll"lnatl••n t••r ban doc.,...ntary Ti&tur•) 
1: )0 , ••. 
,...,...t-.4 ~,. Motre o-M Moe c-tu.. for u. P'l'evftllotl of ~l••r V..r 

Notre Dame Chorale 


Spring Concert 
Washington Hall Monday Aprill9, 8:15pm 

Cosgrove said. "I didn't think it was 
intentional, but it seemed like a 
frightening example of the way 
police power 'protected' us." 
The demonstration was another in a long line ofanti-nuclear protests organized by Berrigan. Berrigan was convicted last year in the "Plowshares Eight" incident in which he and several others entered a General Electric plant, smashing and pouring blood on the nose cone ofan MX missile. 
Sr. john Miriam jones, coor­dinator of the "Distinguished American Women" lecture series said "Wilkowski's long foreign service career gives her a remarkable perspective from which 


•··. 


to speak and share her experiences. As the first woman to be named by 
A group ofstudents took advantage ofyesterdays clear weatber 
the U.S. as an ambassador to Africa, 

to stage a 12-hoursoftball marathon for charity. (photo by Cheryl
as weU as other roles, she blazed the 

Ertelt)
diplomatic trail for women." 

Roemerrequests halt 
Pedestrians ruin campus latvns 
ByLAUREL-ANN DOOLEY 
News Staff 
Pedestrians repeatedly cutting across the lawns are "destroying the grass," especially in the areas around the library, South Dining Hall, Lewis, St. Edward's and Zahm Halls, said Dean ofStudentsJames Roemer. 
"Many people comment that we have one of the most attractive campuses in the entire country, and the grassy quad areas are particular­ly beautiful,"' said Roemer, adding that the· groundskeeping depart­ment "involves a significant ex­penditure ofhibor and money." 
Some ofthe damage resulted from 
In 
Memoriam 
The Obseroer extends con­dolences to the friends and family of john M. McGrath, Sr. Mr. McGrath, who passed away early yesterday morning, is survived by his wife and son, john McGrath, Jr., the former editor-in-chief of The Obseroer. Fr. Michael Heppen wUI officiate a memorial mass to be held at 5:10 today in the Alumni Hall chapel. All friends arc cordial­ly invited to attend. 


, , , Trudeau 

continuedfrom pa~ 1 
from the United States, seeking to develop a sense ofCanadian national unity. He has continually opposed Quebec's attempts at separatism and has advocated bilingualism through­out the country. 
Economic problems throughout 
Canada and Quebec's hopes for In· dependence caused public dissatis­faction with Trudeau, and in May, 1979, he was ousted In favor ofcon­servative Joe Clark.. Nine months later, Trudeau regained control of the Canadian government In nation­al elections that gave his liberal party a decisive edge in Parliament. 

I· 
snow plowing which required the removal of the cables which border the sidewalks and allowed people to short-cut across the grass. These cables are currently being installed by the maintenence department. 
Roemer requests that students contribute to the beautification of the campus by walldng only on the provided sidewalks and utilizing the available fields for sports and recrea­tional activities. 




ROSELAND 277-5880 DELIVERING to NOTRE DAI\tlE and SAINT MARY'S 
Or.l.-r tlo.-1:.\I'R/·.\\ Pl.-1.1\ /·R\: 
Medium -pepperoni -sausage Or combo 
~o~&l n·,-,.;,.,. 'lui.. J,.,.,. .u.,.,.;,,-,. 
Fr..Cok•1l Ut.r w;m.d. Pinel 2Uwra w/I.Clrg• Plzzl:l 
Drivrr has frrsll pizza for salr on rruck. 
HOURS: mon-Thurs Clnd SundCl 
sPm -lO:lOPm 
Fri. Clnd SClt. 5Pm -12:30Am 




The Observer Monday, Aprill9, 1982-page 4 

Democratic Socialists addressEl Salvador 
By PETER CIOITA chitecture student and native of El News Staff Salvador, spoke about the existing conditions in his country saying, 
The El Salvador Teach In con­"Everyone is killing everyone, 90 ducted by members of the percent of the people are poor and Democratic Socialists of America are suffering, people fear for their Friday evening in LaFortune Little personel safety. Theatre was another effort in an The Teach In began with remarks overall "learning and conciousness given to an attentive audience by raising project," commented D.S.A. Paulita Pike, a student at ND and member Charles Kirkpatrick. native of El Salvador, and Charles 
The goal of the D.S.A. which has McKelvey a professor at Saint Mary's been meeting for nine months on College. Professor McKelvey said campus is to determine the most ef­that the use of land for commercial fective means by which individuals purposes has expanded in thhe last can work together to bring about so­300-400 years leaving the common cial change. The concern of the people of El Salvador with slim group as exemplified by its spirited means by which to engage in subsis­dialogue with students, teachers, tent agriculture. and other members of the Notre "The issue can be determined in Dame community comprised a sin­terms of domination of the western cere effort by those involved to world which is a world wide process become more informed about the promoting captilalism," said strife ridden conditions existing in McKelvney. "The land use patterns

Members of the Democratic Socialists of Friday in LaFortune Little Theatre. (photo by 
El Salvador. aid western develoment while

America conducted an El Salvador teach-in CherylErtelt) 
Leopoldo Abrego, a flfth year ar-causing Third World under develop­ment." 
Paulita Pike described events she 

• • .Hesburgh 
experienced while working in El Sal­vador as a translator from I973 to attempts ofthe Christian Democrac­countries, as well as for the press and the various balloting places around I980, including her witnessing of
continuedfrom page 1 
tic mayors and the burning of their the local governement officials here the country to make sure that this is crimes perpetrated against the have threatened to do. records with the hope that this and the heads of all the various a fair, honest, open, and unharrassed people and her own arrest by nation­
We then went to the home of U.S. would impede elections. The Left in parties in contention in this elec­election. al police. Pike described conditions Ambassador Deane Hinton. We had this country has been invited to take tion. When it was all over, I suddenly By now, I think everyone in our where many security groups existed all of our delegation, plus all of our part in the elections, but so far they remembered it was Friday and I had delegation will admit that we've had and participated in sporatic killings 
staff people, there, numbering have resisted it and have done every­been eating meat, but it was too late a very long day under enormous of individuals. These groups do not probably 25, and we were given a thing possible to keep others from to do anything about it at that point. pressure, especially in the area of come under any tight central rule rundown on the elections. They are voting. For our part, we will do our Given the pressures of this day, I security. We have been told that and therefore receive no retribution not without problems, but at least best to see that the elections are fair, guess the Lord will understand. there will be no drinking from now for their actions. here there are elections, whereas in that there is no intimidation, that the As I mentioned earlier, perhaps until Monday night because of the "Nothing is being done," said Pike. neighboring Nicaragua there aren't count is accurate, and that it is regis­the most important thing we learned election. This generally is a good "There's a saying in El Salvador, 'dog going to be any until1986. tered in the capital as soon as pos­today is that no one can predict this idea, but I asked Ted Briggs and doesn't eat dog."' 
Perhaps the best thing that can be sible, with records to back up its election. That has something to say Congressman Jack Murtha to come said about the coming vote is that accuracy. There have been many about the openness of the campaign to my room for a surprise. I showed Pike's own arrest and nine day in­Busstamante has tried to arrange for bombs, and even as we talked and the fact that this election for them that the last thing I did before terrogation resulted from suspicion a fair, honest, and just election. The tonight, the explosions started once is ~ot fixed. The second point running out of the office yesterday by Right Wing military groups that general feeling here is that no one sounding near and far, one of the:m we worked out after the reception was to put a bottle of Cutty Sark in she was promoting proaganda and knows who is going to be elected, blowing up the local supermarket. was that we will have a checklist of my suitcase. harboring a fugitive. She was and that's the first time in fifty years things we must look at when we visit released without harm.
! that one couldn't predict the The Deputy Chiefofmission here, outcome of an election in El Sal-the No. 2 man, Kenneth Bleakley,
\ At present, El Salvador is a countryvador. told us that we will have, besides the 
SaintMary~ announces 
torn between the interests of the possibility of viewing the election 
Right Wing land owners,the United 


It is generally accepted that there here in the captial where maybe a 
States supported President are somewhere between 1.2 and 1.4 third of the population dwells, the 

government positions 
Napoleon Duarte and the efforts of million voters in this country, out of opportunity of viewing the election 
the common folk. Laura Failla a so­a total population of probably 4.5 out in the boondocks where we can 
By MARK WORSCHEH a.m. and from 1:30-4:30 p.m. cial worker from Catholic Social million_ Tbe .I)J.Im~r that will vote choose east, west; along the coast, or 
News .Editor In the only uncontested major Services and follower of the D.S.A have a. iOOd...,tll).tQ ~. in c;~ea~g, ··' · ,. .m: '~ F'Pi~~ It·~ as race, Trisha Sigler and Mary Pat Hof~ said, "Concern must be given to the the ~i'dltbt:Uiff:::~f the ·~tdc:~n a!??'l' ~,~.:~-·wt.-s­Twenty-three students have fman are running for President and peasants of El Salvador. We are in though it is vtt1-diffituti: to vot'e In "tefit ate bedtuse there are a lot of properly filed for Saint Mary's Vice President ofHoly Cross Hall. 
support ofthe people."the middle of a civil war when, on voters there and a good deal of the government positions announced 
In LeMans Hall, four tickets have the one hand, the Left says it will kill concentration in the rural com­Elections Commissioner Monica 
been announced for President and Members of the D.S.A. believe the those who do. The Left has burned munities. We have until sevc!n 
Gugle yesterday. VP: Marina Barra, Tracey Oakes; Liz United States is crying ·wolf with its over two hundred buses to cut o'clock Sunday morning to decide. 
The elections are scheduled for Ladner, Sally Georgen; Nancy Loren: charges that action must be taken in down on the possibility of On to the Foreign Ministry, whe:ce Thursday and will take place in the zini; Helen Clarke; and Teri McGin­order to drive off Communist in­
• 1. transportation to election. There there was a large reception for the dining hall during all meals and in ley, Mary Walsh . fluence. Said Pike,"The Right is I'·., have also been many assassination observers from 24 different The candidates for President and
the LeMans lobby from 9:00-11:00 giving the excuse that it must be op­
l •j 
VP in McCandless Hall are: Lisa Fitt, pressive in order to ward off com­Kathy Uznanski; and Michele munism, yet, their real interest is to Manion, Patricia Nolan. maintain control and protect the·

·l 


Movin'out? 
In Augusta Hall, the tickets in­wealthy." Pike jo!dngiy addtd, "The' clude Sarah Clarke, Karen McCarter; communists are not coming to El and Cathy Mahoney, Cindy Licht for Salvador." President and Vice President. 
In addition, Ellen Placey was an­The group maintained that once






RENTA 
nounced for Judicial Commissioner; U.S. dollars are removed from El Sal­Sandy Eitel, for Social Commis­vador, the military group's power sioner; Dierdre Grant for Social will be substantially weakened, for­Commissioner; M.). Hart, for cing them to negotiate with the Secretary; and Mary Ososkie, for people.

RYDER TRUCK
~~ . ·';~." . "_•. '. .' . ....,._. .... ,_ ~,,,, ·. ' '~ "··. . . 
Treasurer ofAugusta Hall. As one unfortunate questioner If you're 18 or over you can rent a Ryder truck to use locally or on a discovered, Hesburgh and the D.S.A. one-way !rent-it-here.leave-it-there) trip to another city 
do not mix. through a barage of 

Compare costs before you make plans for moving at the end ~--------------~ 
cries that the purpose ofthe meeting

of the semester With a truck you can take along your stereo. 10-speed. 1Notre Dame/St. Mary S 
was not to discuss him, one member 

clothes. all your stuff. and still have plenty of room for one or two other 1 
Special said,"Hesburgh sees capitalism as a
people and their things, so you can share the costs. Compare that to a 1 
way of life. He is naive and ill in­

plane ticket Or even a bus. . _ ·II 
form<:d about El Salvador."· 

-Rent from the best-maintained. most dependable fleet in rI~ l II 
10%0FF
, ..va~ i ,_.,,u•tau.: ~•au•••••=•• .......-.:..,Ra.nta...uuau......_...~ 
r------;;yonewav rental card rate ITHE OAR HOUSEl 
With This COUPON ~ • Beer , ! 
: l. Open till :

and Your Student/Faculty ID • • tquor l 
3:00am!!!:
• Carry out s

through June 30, 1982 i-SINGLES BAR
Offer Good at 2715 N.Bendix Dr., S.B. 

-BOOZE &DANCING 
I
~

YDER TRUCKRENTAL 272-7818 


U.S. 31 North 
.i=


2715N. BENDIX DR South Bend 
(I blocll south of Holiday Inn) 
llllll!llllti..IIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIUI•Itlllllllllllllllllll; 

L-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
----~ 


~SHOWCA~S~E~~~Mo~~~~·~9,198~2p~~5 
Praises ''Au Cabaret'' 
T
his past weekend, the ND Stu­dent Players presented their spring production, Cabaret, in Washington Hall Thursday through Saturday nights, with a matinee per­formance yesterday. The show, directed by jell' Mousseau and produced by Ed McNally, was very well done, engaging and most enjoyable. 

Peter Loveley 

theatre review 
The play opened with Frank Gabriele as Master ofCeremonies. He completely commanded the audience's attention. What was ex­tremely impressive was Gabriele's ability to make the audience feel as if it were actually in a nightclub. This was highlighted by the cozy atmos­phere created by the stage setup. Having performers up in the balcony throughout the play was an excel­


lent touch. 

Gabriele was splendid in every composition which seemed to be a.~pect of his performance. His ac­such a vital and integral part of the ting, dancing and singing were all story. exceptional and his mannerisms and The real message of the play was expressions can only be described brought out by the relationship be­as captivating. tween Herr Schultz and Fraulein 
Ora jones !.(ave a stellar perfor­Schnieder. Schultz, played excep­mance as Sally Bowles, perhaps the tionally well by Raul A porteIa, was a best ofthe evening. She effectively jew who was blind to the conse­communicated Sally's exciting, st"lf quences ofa Nazi takeover ofGer­centered personality to the many; Schneider, well played by audience throughout the produc­Bridget Dolan, was sensitive to the tion.The climax of the show troubles that were brewing. Their occured when Jones sang the show­relationship mirrored the conflict stopper "Cabaret" in a rousing m;m­between the two perspectives and ner. injected a serious theme to the per­
Mike Kelly gave a very fine formances. Dolans' singing of"So performance a.~ Clifford Bradshaw. What" wa.~ definitely notewonhy. Ills acting was very nice; however, Betsy Quinn's Fraulein Kost was In spots he failed to convince us that sexy, saucy and aggressive as befits a he wa.~ Cliff. This would not have prostitute. She and Dolan enacted been as noticeable were it not for his some very humorous scenes togeth­impeccable singing which totally er. While the role of Ernst Ludwig enthralled this writer. "Goodbye, was small, it was essential to an un­Herlin,Goodbye" was performed ~o derstanding of the play and was well perfection by Kelly. Special con­portrayed by Doon Wintz. gratulations and thanks go to Mike The six Cabaret Girls looked aut­Szatkowski andjeffMousseau for the hentic with their seductive smiles and attractive costumes. Their dan­
cing and singing talents were best 
brought out in the numbers they 
performed with Gabriele. 
There was a lack ofprecision in the company dance numbers but that may be Jess attributable to the dancers than to the demands of the scene. However the company's rendition of"Tomorrow Belongs to Me" was excellent and very moving. 
Special credit goes toJeff Mous­seau for superb direction. The en­ding scene was very interesting and accented the gravity of the situation in Germany at the time Cabaret was taking place. It gave me an uneasy, eerie feeling and was a fitting end to a fine performance. 
Cabaret is a musical and the or­chestra performed well. Especially effective was the orchestra's perfor­mance on stage. 
Overall,Cabaret was an especially enjoyable experience, and well worth the time taken to attend -af­ter all, "What good is sitting alone in your room ...? 


Abiogenesis goes fortnal 
I 
honestly believed, at the age of IH, as a newly matriculated Notre Dame freshman, that I could give up dance. I wa.~ going to do equally lucrative things like major in philosophy. My mother wa.~ hap­py that I was safely in college. 


Angela Adamson 
_dance preview 
Unfortunately, we do not always know ourselves very well, and af­ter one semester without dance, I was crawling the walls. I needed to dance. There were no modern dance teachers nearby, so I became one. And at the end ofthe semester, I and four of my "students" gave a performance for my humanities seminar class in the library lounge. The piece was 

called "Conditionally Human," and it is now in Abiogenesis' repertory. Well, the audience was select and small, but it convinced me that I had to have a company. Iwanted to choreograph and I needed bodies. 
I came back in September, 1980 after a summer ofplotting. Abiogenesis was born. It wasn't a big beginning. I had been in one company before, but knew very little about how to run one. There was a school. I got dancers from the the classes. Since there were no auditions, we were a motley crew. Even today most of the Abiogenesis company has little or no prior dance training. En­thusiasm and commitment have been the only requirement. 
Because I was not yet brave enough to set a concert date, and because I really had no idea what I was doing, by December the com­pany had dwindled to three mem­bers: myselfand two men. It was the only time in Abiogenesis' his­tory that men outnumbered women. I returned in january, full ofnew ideas. IfI had a company of three, I would choreograph for three. Someone brought some music in, and "Toccata," Abiogenesis' post-World War II piece was choreographed. 
This year has seen continued growth. We have given two infor­mal concerts and will present a third (formal, this time) in Wash­ington Hall on Wednesday at 8 
p.m. We are establishing a touring program. Zani Wente, a dancer and teacher from Winnetka, Illinois was an artist in residence. The company now has I 3 members. 
We are still a motley group. This has been a real challenge for me as a choreographer. First I must teach a vocabulary. Then I give the dan­cers concepts and we all experi­ment. When Icome in with an idea for a dance, which I must do on the average ofevery other week, I never come in with a complete no­tion of movement or steps. I only know what qualities I want. Be­cause my dancers are not trained, I work with their own natural move­ment. I have discovered this tactic makes dancing easy and fun for the dancer and aesthetically pleasing for the audience. The total picture the audience receives is one of variety and vitality. 

Variety will mark Abiogenesis' final 1982-83 concert. Pieces will range from abstract, tortured "Notes from Inside Myself' to the sultry Pat Benatar "TuffLife." Frank Sinatra will sing while sequins shimmer, chorus girls kick and Fred and Ginger tango in "New York, New York." The company will perform a structured im­provisation, a random dance in "Floor Patterns." And in the finale "An American Dream," they will comment on American culture. 
The dancers ofAbiogenesis invite the entire Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community to see the final concert of 1981-82. 
Agony of de 'feet needs relief 
~e single biggest step women have taken toward equality with 
~ men, since they acquired the right to vote in 1920, is in the shoes they're wearing. Fewer women are tottering around on high, spindly heels, and there is no doubt that the change in footwear is going to help them stay even or get ahead of men. Up until now it's taken women longer to do everything because in the shoes they were wearing, they couldn't get anywhere as fast as men. 


findy Rooney 


One of the most encouraging things I see every day is women 
walking to work in New York City. New York, more than almost 
anyplace else in the country, is a walking city. Hundreds of 
thousands ofpeople walk 20 or 30 blocks from where they live up­
town or downtown, into midtown where they work. Thousands of 
the young women you see are hustling along in good, heavy rubber­
soled sneakers. Sneakers have become so sophisticated that no one 
calls them that anymore, but I'm sure you know what I mean. The 
women either carry a bag with the shoes they plan to wear in the 
office or they have left shoes at the office. They change into those 
when they get there. In most cases, even their dress shoes have heels , 
that are low compared to those that women wore in the past. 
I don't know how women ever got trapped into wearing spike 
heels. Spike heels are only slightly less arcane than the bindings 
Chinese women used to use to make their feet small. I say I don't 
know but I suppose I do know. Women's legs look sexier in high 
heels than in sneakers. What I really don't know is why this is so. 
For some obscure reason, men have got themselves thinking that a 
woman's leg, from the knee down, is more attractive if the calfis 
quite full but tapering offsharply into a thin, bony ankle. Ifthe heel is 
propped up on a platform, it tends to make a lump ofthe calfmuscle. 
That's the look we like. 

The answer is for men to re-educate themselves about what looks 
attractive about a woman's leg. I've just about got myselfto the place 
where a woman's leg looks better to me in a pair ofsneakers than in 
shoes with heels. 

There hasn't been much progress made in what men wear on their feet. The average man is wearing shoes that don't really come close to approximating the outline of his feet. He buys a pair ofshoes that are about an inch longer than his feet so they won't pinch his toes and then starts breaking them in. Breaking in a pair ofshoes means stretching them by wearing them until they're close enough to the shape ofyour feet so they don't hurt much when you walk in them. 
Ifyou look at a man's foot in his shoes, you can tell the shoes don't really fit. The widest part ofhis foot almost always stretches the leat­her so that the upper part of the shoe hangs over the sole. 
,

For years now they've been molding ski boots to fit your foot 
! 

precisely and I'm waiting for that to happen with the ordinary shoes '
I

we wear. I confidently expect the time isn't far offwhen both men 
lI

and women will be able to walk into a shoe store and have shoes I 
'l 

made for them that exactly conform to the shape of their feet. . i Molded shoes can be bought now, but they arc made mostly for . ~ 
. 
people with orthopedic problems and they're very expensive. Even . j people with normal feet look funny in molded shoes because the shoes are the shape of their feet and we're not used to that. We're used to pretending that our feet are the shape ofour shoes, and ili~re~~~~ · 
Feet have gotten a dirty deal over the years. We haven't paid halfas much attention to them as we've paid to our hands. Feet are what Howard Cosell would probably call the unsung heroes ofour bodies. We ought to give them a better break, and the women walking to work in sneakersor running shoes are taking a big step in that direc­tion. IfI wore a hat, I'd take it offto them. 
Copyright by The: Chicago Tribune, 19H~ 


Monday, April19, 1982-page 6





Editorials 


Sun never sets on morons 
Through no fault of its own, the delightful institution of higher Great Britain has sent a good­State Department has become in­learning, Bob Jones University. sized task force with a couple of volved in two ludicrous situations That was the school that the I.R.S. aircraft carriers and Prince recently. Both these situations wanted to go after for alleged racist Andrew to deal with the situation. would be laughable to rational policies. Reagan then ordered the It certainly isn't a rapid deploy­people if those involved were not I.R.S. to back off which caused a ment force but it has united Britain bent on a lot of power-crazed ad­great deal of controversy. Reagan with some patriotic fervor and vancement. then reversed his decision. Bob gives officials a chance to dress up 
wanted to have his friend Ian come like Knights of Columbus and over from Northern Ireland and make speeches about the Empire give a talk. Ian Paisley said he and glories past. 
Jim McGillivray 
would keep the six northern counties of Ireland part of the There is also the matter of the 
The first incident concerns Rev. British Empire if he had to go to 1800 people who live on the is­Ian Paisley and his good buddy Bob war with Britain to do it. lands, speak English and regard Jones III. Bob Jones III runs that themselves as British subjects. I
Ian also said, "I hate the system would too. The prospect ofinherit­Roman Catholicism, but God being ing the Argentine governmentmy judge, I love the poor dupes would have me waving a Unionwho are ground down under that


Transtnission troubles 
Jack like crazy. As in all these inter­system. Particularly I feel for their natonal honor disputes it will of

the hill. 7:25 am. Limp into Cus­transmission with hopes of creating Catholic mothers who have to go
PROLOGUE: Since I bad notgone 
course be these people who lose.

tom Transmission. Ask attendent new mechanical life. 12:45 pm. out and prostitute themselves
·omefor spring break, I decided to 

about transmission. He doesn't Look for lunch. Rootbeer and two before old bachelor priests."
ke an extended vacation to enjoy 
So here we have it. Ian, a formerknow. He just pumps gas. hotdogs covered with sauerkraut

tster in the cockles ofthe bosom of 

The common ground for Ian and Member of Parliament and7:30 am. Try to call Jim. No and mustard at Pappy's Texas
'7family. 
Bod is a particular pet peeve graduate of Bob Jones Universityanswer. Try to call home. No Wiener Diner. 
against the Pope. When Paisley's (after being releasd from Crumlin
answer. 1:30 pm. Call Observer tell them visa application was denied by the Road Jail in 1966 when he incitedMichael Molinelli 7:40am. Ask attendent when mec·­my column will be late. 
State Department, Jones and Pais­riots against Catholic neighbor­
hanic gets in. 8:30. 6:1 5 pm. Transmission resur­
LOGUE: ley immediately charged "popish" hoods) is screaming because he
9:10am. Mechanic shows up. rected. Car functional. I leave 
5:30 am April 14, 1982. Awake. plot because AI Haig is Catholic. can't come spread his garbage. 
9:15 am. Takes car around block Totowa. 
P"epare to make the 1 3 hour plus 
for test. It fails. I pray to God it's not 7:00 pm. Pick up Jim in Morris­Now I'm not all that proud that. •de from Briarcliff Manor, N.Y. to Bob is upset because the govern­
too extensive. town in t front ofthe Bambergers. Haig is Catholic but I doubt if the
'-·mth Bend. ment denied his friend a visa and
9:30 am. Call home. Mom 6:00 am, April 15. Pull into South Pope ordered the actions of th t e
6:00 am. Kiss Mom goodbye. because his alleged racist policies 
answers. Explain situation so far. Bend, 12 hours late, financially State Department, although he did !>rive off. Itinerary: Sprain Brook are causing him tax problems. 
11:30 am. Mechanic, named Dan-scarred and emotional bruised. deny a similar application by Pais­
l'.trkway to Cross Bronx Expres­The Falklands are in trouble be­
EPILOGUE: There's something ley to visit the Vatican. 
·,way, across George Washington 
cause Argentina is in trouble. 
Catholic in me that says in all this 
Bridge to Route 80. One detour...a Jones called on God to "smite" What should be done?
suffering there must be a lesson 
•.wp in Morristown, to pick upJim at AI Haig and "destroy him utterly." Well, Bob Jones should move to
someplace. Robert Bums said 
Bambergers. But I doubt there would be much South Africa with his university
something in Scottish which I can't 
6:55am. Car begins smoking. Ride left after a thorough smiting by and followers. They speak English 
quote but effectiely says that the 
becomes sluggish. God. These same two gentlemen there, and "alleged" racists have no
best laid plans ofmice and men of­
7:05 am. State Trooper pulls me branded Billy Graham a "papal more tax troubles than real racists. 
ten go awry. It always seems that 
-ver. Your car is smoking. Good. I .agent" for his moderate approach
despite my precautions, orperhaps 
to the ecumenical movement.
.td confirmation. Trooper writes up 

because of them my luck still runs As for Ian, he should take his \\ arning. 
Murpbyesque. God has yet to smite AI Haig ut­little band down to the Falklands to 7:10 am. Continue on Route 80. 
Things much more important terly but the other current bizarre keep it part of the Empire. He H1de becoming worse. Smoke get­and wordly don't seem to irritate us situation, the Falklands crisis could desperately wants to be a martyrtingworse. This is it, I'm going to try ny, starts dissecting my transmis­
as much as the insignificant but lo­get down to some serious smiting for the Crown. Maybe we'd all getroland this baby. sion. He finds broken rings. He:_ cal troubles. It is during these local lucky and his fondest dream would
soon. 

7:15 am. Exit, Totowa, New Jer­found worn out clutches. He found crises that we should endeavor to come true. But our God doesn'tArgentina is in a bad way these 
,ey. This is God's country out here. pieces that didn't ~elong there. Dan­keep our humor up and ourpulses smite people on command, despite
days with triple digit inflation and 

rhe smell of the asphalt, the humm­ny wondered how the car was even down. Things will always be going Bob's exhortations, and especially
political unrest. So the current

clink-humm-clunk of the sanitation moving. I thanked God I got that far. wrong...around the world, across not for just being stupid.
junta (I can't remember ifwe over-

truck. 12:15 pm. Get estimate of repair the nation and in Totowa too. 7:16am. Pull into Sunoco station. cost. 
threw Allende for this one or the \sk attendent question about pos­12:16 pm. Have chicken. last one) decided that a symbolic '>ible transmission problem. He 12:20 pm. Danny and his anti-colonial act like invading the 
•loesn't know. He just pumps gas. I hunchbacked assistant begin repair. Falkland Islands would be just the 
.tsk about the location of any Like a Dr. Fiankenstein and Igor, thing to pull them all t()gether. So (generic) transmission place. Down they cannibalize my old dead far it has. 
Editorial Board 




The Oburver is an independent newspaper published by the students of the 
fjliftlr-in-Chief..............................Michacl Monk Business Mtmuger.............................Tony Aiello
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily 
Mmmging litlitor................Ryan Vcr Hcrkmo<:s Omtmller.............................................Eric Schulz
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report· 
l!.:t:t'l'l41illf! Neu>s liclitor.......................-.K.clli 1-lina Atlt>ertisinl' Mtmager.......................Chri.o; Owen
ed as accurately and as objectively as possible_ Editorials represent the opinion of 
SMC: Nt•u>s l:.'tlilor ..................... Marr,arct fosmoc Pmtlut-limr Mtmager..................Mauca Murphy 
a majority of the Editorial Board. Co.nmentaries, opinions and letters are the views 
Sports fj/itor..................... .............Chri.o; Nccdks Cirr:ultllion Munager ..........................Ray lnglin
of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and 
F~liloriuls l:ilitor .............................1'-.aul McGinn Systems Mcmuger ...........................Druce Oakley 
the frtt expression of varying opinions on campus, throup .letters, i5 cocoungcd. 
ff!tllul'f!s litlitor ...................................Tari Drown Photo fj/itor ...................................Rachel Dlounl 
Founded November 3. 1966
P.O.Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46SS6 (~19) 239-S303 

The Observer Mon<!ay, April19, 1982 page 7 

South Dining Hall: aworld of confusion 
I was here at Notre Dame during the Easter break. There is really no­thing wrong with that ifone lives too far away to make four days at home worthwhile, like myself. However, the short breaks leave something to be desired. The only dining hall open is the South Dining Hall. For reasons I have yet to fully under­stand, many people here at ND prefer that place. Well, I do not like it; I never have, and never will. 
Tmrthy~y 
Where do I start my criticism of the place? How about at the begin­ning -right inside the doors? If one should catch the place at the wrong time, there is a mob of people jammed inside, around, and near the 
doors jostling for a place in line. (Since all of the doors open to the same place, much butting and jos­tling goes on. ) Once one of these becomes formed into a "line," it does not move:. Except in large spurts. If you should happen to be talking to someone or reading the paper and all of a sudden the line moves, a large gap forms between you and the people in front of you, which quickly becomes filled up by people aside and behind you if you arc not careful. So much for the fic­tion that "the line moves faster at South." It only seems to because it 
5:55 pm -it is not always the same one every day; or you are supposed to meet some friends in one line and they ate in the other. You cannot get to one side from the other without a major hassle. 
OK. I have fought the crowds inside the doors and have finally decided which way to go. (During breaks they do not give you the op­tion of picking a side. It makes life a little easier, but it makes the lines longer.) Also, I have made it past the checkers. Now I am up to the rope. This rope is why the line moves in the aforementioned spurts. It limits the flow of people into the serving room, which does have its ad­
vantages, I guess. Considering what 
the rest of the joint is like, it is ab­
solutely necessary. Once one gets 
past the rope, WELCOME TO THE 
ZOO! The South Dining Hall has the 
most disorganized system ofserving 
food and drink of any place I have 
ever seen. 
There arc six serving lines inside. Not all of these , however, offer every entree -each usually has on­
ly two. This is great it you want the 
first entree, because every line has 
that. It is not as great if you want 
something else. Invariably one ends 
up in the wrong line; by the time one 
gets to the serving lane another mob 
of people has come through the 
rope. Therefore, you have to start all 
over again in another serving line. 
The desserts are lined up in anoth­er place. More fights through the mob; this time most people are moving in the opposite direction. This can create problems for people not used to dodging moving objects. There are also loaves of bread some­where back there, from what I un­
derstand, and occasionally rolls too, but they are next to impossible to find through the wandering masses. 
Whew. I finally made it to the main room, and I want something to drink and something from the salad bar. Good Luck! The soft-drink machines are strategically located within a couple feet of the tray­return area. More mayhem. People trying to get drinks, re-enter the serving area for seconds, or get rid of 
their trays so they can leave cause the worst traffic jam in the whole place, and that is saying something. Then, on one ofthe sides (either left or right, I neither know nor care) there is only one ice machine. And on both sides, it is the norm for only half the soda machines to be working for all the people in the room. More unnecesary traffic. And now to the salad bar, an unbelievab­ly disorganized mess. The fixins are in a different spot from the salad; therefore, you have to get lettuce from one place, go somewhere else to put fixins on it, and go back from whence you came to put dressing on it! Things become more confused if an entree is served with mustard, catsup, etc. 
And all this for food which some claim is better than the North's food. Wrong again, enchilada breath. If anything, it is worse, if that is pos­sible. I have experienced chopped steaks all but raw inside and corn dogs with hot corn and cold dog, for example. The servings are smaller than North's, and the South's policy on seconds is ridiculous. Even ifthey gave you two the first time (like hot dogs), they will only give you one the second time. If you ask for two, they gruffly say, "Only one for seconds..." Why do they do this when the North does exactly op­posite: assume you want two unless you ask for one? Do they fear waste? 
Are they afraid of running out? Let's 
get on the ball, South. 
Finally, I sit down in the oft­acclaimed "atmosphere" of South. Atmosphere schmatmosphere! It has all the atmosphere of a large cattle yard. Why, you can hardly hear yourself think the way sounds echo off the high ceilings. It is im­possible to hear anyone sitting more than two seats away from you clear­ly. Admittedly, North's atmosphere is no better, but the South Barn cer­tainly is overrated. 
At last, after I 5 to 30 minutes of fighting all this, it is back to the con­veyor belt by the soda machines to get rid of my tray (a tray which is smaller than the ones given at North, and often unable to hold all your various plates and bowls). Now to fight the crowds one last time on the way out. 
As I finally make it back out onto the quad, after another trip into the war zone of South Dining Hall, it makes me wish that something could be done about it. Until it is, 1 wit! avoid that building sandwiched between Dillon and Fisher unless I cannot avoid it, or am going to the Oak Room. Me, I'll stick to the much more institutional, but far more or­ganized North Dining Hall. 

moves large distances in short times -however, it moves nowhere for longer periods of time. The line at North constantly moves, albeit at a snail's pace at times. 
Secondly, which way do I go? At North, this is not a major concern. There arc six lines; all one needs to do is check to see which is shortest because all four rooms at North are connected. In other words, you can 
enter "F'' line (which is usually the shortest at dinner) and eat in the room fed by "D" and "E" lines if you want. Or you can cross over to the "B"·"C" line room. In South, this is a major life decision. You pick left or ~1)~~-­right, and you are stuck there. This is a "wonderful" situation ifeither you get into the line that closes at 6 pm at 

SOUTHDININGHALL 12:15pm 
P.O. Box Q 
Smut fills Absurder 
DearEditor: find the letter to the Editor, rc: Sex and the Single Domer! 
April Fools Day or not -"The God help us -are you that Devil in Miss Jones" ad makes me desperate to fill your pages? Smut sick. I think that this type of thing -smut! in The Observer is done in very poor taste. I will cancel my sub­Concerned Subscriber, scription to the Observer. I also Mrs.]ohnj. Riley 
Two replies to Neely 

Theatre isn't a Cabaret 
I went to see Cabaret this the hall and director of the show, for the singingand the dancing, not weekend. It was a magnificent per­and he expressed a similar to mention several scantily clad formance with several sparkling in­curiosity. He mentioned the bet women doing high kicks. My dividual efforts, and excellent that the heaviest drawing stage point is not that the large direction by Jeff Mousseau. My production on either campus, by audiences attending this date and I thoroughly enjoyed the far, is the Keenan Revue, which an· weekend's production were not show, and I was interested to note nually gives away 2500 tickets in a warranted, but that there is no that a lot of others shared our en­matter of hours. Now the Revue is reason the same number ofpeople, joyment. A lot of others. I spoke certainly a very entertaining ex­indeed the samepeople should not" 
with the house manager after the travaganza of talent, but it can have attended, say, American Buf­
performance, and she informed me hardly be called a serious examina­falo -same theatre, better set, an­
that the attendance that evening tion ofhuman values. other one of Raul Aportela's fine 
neared seven hundred. While the same can not be said showings, and it cost Jess than a 
of Cabaret, it seems odd that it good drink. 
should be so much more appealing Rumour has it that next semes­Joe Musumeci than the numerous other plays 
ter, the ND/SMC Theatre will be which are produced year round. producing a comedy by that old A friend of mine attempted to favorite, William Shakespeare. At first I took this in stride, as a clear my confusion with the simple Shakespeare often reached the desirable aspect ofan excellent ef. addage, "Well, it's a musical ..." peak of his diverse skills when he fort on the part of Jeff Mousseau but Cabaret is, as the director tried to be funny, and it is certain and the Student Union. But then I pointed out, not your average to be an excellent production, if set to thinking ... "Rodgers and Hammerstein" musi­the rumour holds true (we all saw Seven hundred people is almost cal. what happened to promises of enough to legally fill venerable 
Shakespeare this year). I saw great Washington Hall. I thought about numbers of people at Cabaret that several productions I have seen I have never seen at any theatrical recently on that stage, and the fact performance before; I would like that at the performances of those to think that I might see them again shows, the audiences definitely did next year when one of the great not have to take turns breathing, so treasures of our language graces to speak. Notable among these the stage. Shakespeare never made were this semester's productions a great shebangofmusic and dance of The Wild Duck and American In bet, considering the poor at­(though he did use them) but after Buffalo. tendance at theatre productions all, the theatre is about life, and sad 
I have tried, since seeing with more serious aspirations, I though it may be, life isn't always a Cabaret, to fathom just what it is question whether most of the Cabaret ... that makes productions such as throng who were privileged to see these so much more desirable. Mousseau's interpretation of Be:fore: writing a preview for the St. Cabaret reaJJy saw Mousseau's in­Ed's production of The Sly Fox, I terpretation of Cabaret, or spoke with Fr. Mario Pedi, rector of whether most of them were there 

DearEditor: 

Mr. Tim Neely gives us a prime example of the superficiality on campus in his piece of work titled: 
Don't Ignore the Rights of the Born 
He tries to establish a direct cor­relation between Right to Life and President Reagan. Tim didn't talk to anyone in the group apout this posssible linkage; he just asssumed that we were part of the con­servative wave. 
I consider myself a nco-liberal and am not going to change or even think ofchanging my position on abortion because my political group does not approve of my views. 
You don't have to be a con­servative republican to dislike abortion; you simply have to care about the thousands of lives that 
DearEditor: 
Having digested Timothy Nee­ly's article concerning Right to Life Week ("Don't Ignore the Rights of the Born," April 2), I felt the need to respond to the misleading con­ception it presented ofthe Pro-Life movement. Mr. Neely's piece expressed his dissatisfaction with the Reagan Administration's policies concerning the poor, the draft, and fiscal priorities. This is fine, and well within his rights. However, implying that those in­volved with Right to Life support such policies or are indifferent to them is unfounded. 
Had Mr. Neely attended the ac­tivities he mentioned (e.g. "Whatever Happened to the Human Race?", Friday night at the Library Auditorium) he would are lost annualy due to a simple surgical procedure. 
The decision to make abortion the main issue in Respect Life Week was a result of the many groups. The nuclear situation, U.S. world situation and the political situation in other lands have all been taken care ofby other groups like the World Hunger _Coalition and Amnesty International. 
Approximately 11,000 persons died of gun shot wounds last year. Approximately 1,000,000 babies were aborted. If you had a choice, which would you focus on? 
Concerning the dnft, I really don't see the point in making this issue a part of Respect llfe Week. The draft is a problem that would have to be dealt with when we get close to a war situation. 
AbiudAmaro Right to Life 

have seen that the issue at stake is 
the sanctity of ALL life, not just the· lives of the unborn. Granted, it of­ten appears that all Pro-Ufers ever talk about is the horror ofabortion; this is not without reason. The same ethic which deems abortion permissible loglcaJJy leads to the disposal of other "unwanteds"­the handicapped, the feeble, the poor. The fight against abortion is the battle which will decide the war for life. 
Timothy Neely has the right to criticize Mr. Reagan, or anyone else for that matter; to use Right to Life as a springboard for that criticism without logical connec­tion is clearly inappropriate for a journalist ofhis ablllty. 
Sincerely, jamesS. Gantber 


~~(),.tS=l=)=~==i=e~S=================================M=o=n=da=y=,A~p=ri=II=9=,=I9=s=2==p=a=ge==s
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
Successful road trips seem to be the forte of the Notre Dame baseball team this year. Thursday, the Irish split a doubleheader with Bethel College winning the opener 1-0 behind Bill Matre ( 2-3) and dropping the nightcap 2-1. Notre Dame swept a doubleheader from DePauw Saturday, winning 13-4 and 7-3. Today, the team plays a twinbill against Ball State beginning at 1 p.m. -The Observer . -The Observer · 
Coach Tom Fallon'sNotre Dame tennis team split a pair of away matches over the weekend. Yesterday, the Irish swept past Eastern Michigan, 9-0. Against Michigan on Saturday, the Irish this time were on the short end of the 9-0 verdict. In the loss to the Wolverines, Irish first singles standout Mark McMahon had his con­secutive victory streak stopped at 20, setting a new Notre Dame record. NO ( 1 7-6) travels to Northwestern Tuesday for its next match. -The Obseroer 
The ND-SMC Bicycling Club will hold an or­
ganizational meeting tomorrow, April 20 at 6:30p.m. in LaFortune's Little Theatre. All those interested are invited to attend; those who cannot attend should call Chuck Rowan at 3375. -The Observer 
The Irish lacrosseteam came away with a victory on Saturday at Gambier, Ohio, where NO defeated host Kenyon Col­lege, 17-8. Bill Bonde scored five goals and had two assists, whik Steve Linehan chipped in three goals and five assists for the Irish. Notre Dame (6-4) plays host-to Denison College on Wednesday in its next match. -The Observer 
Bookstore Basketball refereesmust attend a 
meeting tonight at 8 o'clock in the Morrissey Hall chapel. Call Let: Manfred at 277-5512 ifyou are interested, but unable to attend. 
The Observer 

ROTC's Tri-Mllitary five-mile run was held this past Saturday. In the men's division, Pat Corrigan placed first with a time of 27:16. Tim O'Conner came in second at 27:41, while Ed Runicki finished third at 28:26. In the women's competition, Fran Cackley and Rita Harrington finished in a dead heat for first place at 36:1 7, while Tish Almeida placed third with a time of 37:17. -The Ob­server 
The Dancin' Irish will have tryouts today through Wednesday, April 21 at 6:30p.m. in the ACC Pit. -The Observer 
The Kepler Invitational, one of the most pres­
tigious golf tournaments in the Midwest, was not too kind to the 
Notre Dame golf team over the weekend, as the Irish finished dead 
last out of23 teams with a team total of1244 strokes. Host Ohio State 
captured the 54-hole tournament with a total score of1143. Runner­
up Ball State accumulated 1179 strokes, while Miami of Ohio fmisbed third with 1182. Frank Leyes' total of 238 for three rounds was the best any NO performer could muster. Next weekend, Noel O'Sullivan's Irish will participate in the Mid-American Invitational at Western Michigan University.-The Observer 
The second annual An Tostal Golf Tourna­ment will be held tomorrow, April 20, at the Burke Memorial Golf Course, beginning at 1 p.m. Golfers can register by calling Ed Rud­dick at 8647 before Monday. Prizes will be awarded to the low score in both the men's and women's divisions, and also for the closest-to­the-pin on a selected hole. -The Observer 
Third-round action of the An Tostal Innertube Waterpolo tournament begins today at the Rock. At 6 p.m., "J. Arthur and the Travelling ......Take to the High Seas" takes on "Fighting Pic; Don't Nibble ( 345)." The 6:40 match features "Heaven Above" taking on "Wet Dreams." Finally, at 7:20, "Dick Moby and the Sperm Whales" faces "Rock Lobsters." -The Obseroer 


Pro Basketball Standings  
NBA  
Eastern Conference  
Atlantic Division  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
x-Boston  63  19  768  
y·Ph1ladelph1a  58  24  .707  5  
y-New Jersey  44  38  537  19  
y-Wash1ngton  43  39  524  20  
New York  33  49  402  30  
Central Division  
x·M1Iwaukee  55  27  .671  
y·Atlanta  42  40  .512  13  
Detroit  39  43  476  16  
Indiana  35  47  .427  20  
Ch1cago  34  48  .415  21  
Cleveland  15  67  .183  40  
Western Conference  
Midwest Division  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
x-San Antomo  48  34  585  
y-Denver  46  36  .561  2  
y-Houston  46  36  .561  2  
Kansas City  30  52  .366  18  
Dallas  28  54  .341  20  
Utah  25  57  305  23  
Pacific Dlvialon  
x-Los Angeles  57  25  .695  
y·Seattle  52  30  .634  5  
y·Phoenix  46  36  .561  11  
Golden State  45  37  .549  12  
Portland  42  40  .512  15  
San D1ego  17  65  .207  40  
x-Ciinched division title  
y-Ciinched playoff spot  
Yesterday'• R"ulta  
Boston 119, New York 99  
Philadelphia 110, Milwaukee 86  
Washington 99, Atlanta 96  
Chicago 112. Indiana 104  
Kansas City 106. Houston 1 04  
Los AQgeles 120, Phoenix 115  
Utah 128, San Antomo 120  
Portland 119. Seattle 114  
Detroit 116, Cleveland 113 (OT)  
REGULAR SEASON ENDS  

The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday. 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However. classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid, 
either in person or through t~e mail.





Classifieds 
NICE HOUSES FURNISHED CLOSE TO  WANTED -CUBE REFRIGERATOR­ I'VE GOT MONEY. SELL ME YOUR EX­ On April 27 at 7:30 pm In the library  REGIS EUGENE ALLISON-THE FACE  
NOTICES  ND FOR NEXT YEAR 2773604  272-9141 555  TRA GRAD 1928  TICKETS!!! CALL  BRIAN  auditorium, JUDY FENLON will present a elide show entitled My Kids,  THAT INSPIRED PREPARATION HI  
HAIRCUTS! ONLY $4 FOR GUYS AND $6 FOR GIRLS--LOT OF EXPERIENCE IN STYLING, ROTC AND PERSONALLY DESIGNED CUTS FOR YOUR FACE AND HAIR. CALL MICHOLE AT 7951 FREE FACIAL! Natural Skin Care Program. Jafra Cosmectics. Penny Pen­rod 291-8310. Experienced typist will do lyping. Call 287·5162. Good speller.  BE YOUR OWN BOSS. Comlortebla 5 bed-.. completely lumlahed lloUM lor 5 or &. CioN to campus. Phone 211&-31142. FOR RENT: Pseudo-beautiful house in good area during summer school. CHEAP-ONLY $225 PER MONTH. 232­2649 For Rent: Student Housing-rated superior-summer an~or tall. Clean, safe, laundry, utilities, $108'.mo total. 291­1405  HELP, I' CAN'T SWIM, SO I NEED A RIDE TO FT. WAYNE ON APRIL 16 OR 17 TO SPEND EASTER WITH CAST· AWAY FAMILY. IF YOU CAN OFFER AID, CALL PEG AT 1274. Professor requires part-time typist who has access to Commodore CBM Model 8032 System. Send specifics to PO Box 77, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 1or 2 female roommates wanted for sum­mer apartment at Campus View. Call 1333 or 1264'$1o  I NEED TWO OR THREE TIX FOR KEN· NY ROGERS. (ON MAIN FLOOR IF POSSIBLE) PLEASE CALL JOHN x3175 PERSONALS Meet poet RICHARD TILLINGHAST  My Life. Featured kids will be Lenny and Damlen. Please call 6724 lor reservations as huge crowda are ex· peeled. The first 50 callare will receive a ton of junk foOd compliments of that lovabla tub-a-lard, Damian. ABIOGENESIS, WEDNESDAY One should have a Card Index JAS ORTIZ, BY THE VERY NATURE OF HIS ABRAISIVE, RUDE, SELF-CEN·  Attention all N.D. females Are your arms tired tram carry1ng heavy books to and from class all day long? Well dur~ng An T osta/ week your womes about dragg1ng your books around are over! As a special serv1ce to you Alumni Hall residents w1ll carry your books tor you. A/1 that need to you do is call your favorite Alumni Hall res1dent anytime Tues. through Fri. and put him 10 work for you. FOR SALE: One way plane tare on Umted  
POET RICHARD TILLINGHAST WED. APRIL 21 -7:30 P.M. IN STAPLETON LOUNGE, SAINT MARY'S. BE THERE I  2 houses near Corby's & Laundromat;1012 S B Ave,$325-5 rooms,huge basement,1 bath;822 N Frances.$425-7 rooms.2 bath. Water.Eiec.Garbage inci,New  DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE TO DAVENPORT, IOWA, APRIL 23-25. WILL SHARE EXPENSES. CALL CHERYL, 284-4529.  during hie poetry reeding, Wed. April 21 at 7:30 p.m., Stapleton Lounge or during an OPEN WORKSHOP, April 22 at 4 p.m., also In Stapleton.  TERED, AND EGOTISTICAL PER· SONALITY, IS THE ONLY VOTE FOR U.M.O.C. ANY PERSON WITH TASTE AND CONVICTION KNOWS THAT THIS GUY IS THE BIGGEST JERK ON THE  out of So. Bend to Los Angeles for $100. Call Ed at 1238 Scowtt for UHOC (That's Ugliest Hillbilly On Campus!)  
FOR TYPING CALL 288·5855 suMMER woRi< '$$$.No ~~~d~~~~ ~~9 4000$ last summer travel experience send name address and phone to P.O. BOX 435 N.D., Ind. 46556  Kitchens, Gas Heat;BIII,232-7135 3-4 bedroom, 3 blocks from campus, Mr. Noe, 287-9636. Summer or Fall. Subleasing Campus View Apt. Jun.-Aug. Reduced Rent. Call Anne Or Mary 4637 (SMC)  FOR SALE USED BOOK SHOP. HOURS WED., SAT. SUN. 9-7. CASPERSON 1303  STANAGE STANAGE STANAGE RICH STANAGE FOR UMOC VIC T AYBACK tor SENIOR FELLOW  CAMPUS....AND THIS IS NOT A JOKE. PERHAPS A KICK IN THE TEETH IS NECESSARY TO GET HIM TO WAKE UP AND REALIZE HE'S NO BETTER THAN ANYONE ELSE. WHEN HE COMES TO THIS REALIZATION-AN APOLOGY PERSONAL WILL BE PRINTED. NO ONE IS "OUT TO GET YOU", JAS, THEY'RE JUST SICK OF  Hey Sunman, Driven a red Toronto lately? In reverse maybe? I th1nk 1t's those Lew1s babes that put you up to 11 -or IS it the shroomsl To the redheaded fox on Flanner s 4th floor,  
-~~~ : ~...·  jLOST/FOUND LOST A PAIR OF GLASSES BETWEEN PANGBORN AND THE STADIUM FRIDAY NIGHT APRIL 2 NEED THESE TO SEEIII PLEASE CALL 284-45111 REWARD Ill FOUND A bracelat at the Stanford Vegelable party. To clainl call8738. lost: blue baclcpack containing books, glasaea, checkbook, Tl36. Unlv.ralty Park Mall, Tues. u c .. l2n-3710 ATTENTION: Tow'--borrowed my wallet and watch from the student MCUiity. The wlllch hugreat sentimental value, and n would take me about 611 WMke to rep!-all olthe stuflln the wal­ Furnished House for next year-6 bdrm 2 bath $540 per mo. 717 St. louis Call Tom McGann 277-3461 or 272-9299 SUMMER SUBLETTORS WANTED! Comfortable, fully furnished, 2 bdrm apt in Hickory Village. II Interested call Carol or Michele at 272-9603. 3-4 bedroom, 3 blocks from campus. Mr. Noe, 287-9636 or 289·2028. Summer or fall. SUMMER SUBLET 1258 PORTAGE AVE GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD 1 or 2 persn apt. call 289 5931 Be your own boss. Comfortable 5 bedroom, completely furnished house for 5 or 6. Close to campus. Phone 288-3942.  BUCHANAN RD , NILES. Specl11l Discounts for Notre Dame faculty on computers and peripheral producls, printers, modems, etc. Hewlett­Packard, Zenith. FOURWAY COM­PUTER PRODUCTS, INC., 52758 US 31 North (AcfOM from North Vlliav-M..l)2n-n20. BEEAUTIFUL FORD FIESTA 1980 with 5500 miles, call277-4413 nights or mor­nings FOR SALE MED. SIZE FRIDGE 191NCH B&W TV CALL 1494 or 1538 MIKE or BOB 4-sale MGB 74 Burg. Good cond. 63000 miles $2300 caJI255-9784 THE BEST STEREO GEAR AT THE  DRAMA I DANCE! MUSIC! ART! FRESHMAN & SOPHMORES: Ale you cunured? Apply to be the 1982-1983 CULTURAL ARTS ASSISTANT COM­MISSIONER. Applications are being ac­cepted from Friday, April 16 up until Friday, April 23. Come pick up your ap­plication in the Student Union Office, 2nd floor La Fortune. BABYCAKES BABYCAKES BABYCAKES This is your official invitation to the firstof the summer gala 9:30 Fondue.Actually it wouldn 'I be a real 9:30 fondue without you there. TOOTS TOOTS TOOTS  SITTING BACK AND WATCHING YOUR ORGIE OF SELF-WORSHIP. VOTE ORTIZ FOR UMOc-BRING THIS MAN(?)TO HIS SENSES. ····················~············! .. MIKE GURDAK FOR U.M.O.C ...... HE RIEALLYWANTSITIIII cAN'oe.fiAce.siGNuPs·-rues~ APRIL 20TH, LaFORTUNE 7-9pm ····················· AN TOSTAL DAISY SALE. APRIL 17·20, IN YOUR LOCAL DINING HALLS If AN TOSTAL DAISY SALE. APRIL 17-20, IN YOUR LOCAL DINING HALLS II Vinyl Jeffers for UMOC ­Ugly Moon on Campus. COMPUTER TYPING of papers, diS· sertatlons, books. If you must rev1se, we  ld love to see you wiggle your--­when you do the doggie! tomyHGLDE: smile, and have a super day! love. the yellow rose ps.remember me?! EMOC (no, not UMOCIII): congrats on all your accomplishments Ill ps. remember­you'll be FREE in 8311! ATTENTION K OF C MEMBERS: AN IN­SURANCE PRESENTATION WILL FOLLOW OUR MEETING TOONIGHT AT 7. PLEASE PlAN ON A TrENDING POUND THE PUP and HEAT IT UP ... H~Y·N~~i~~~i·~;~i;·Y s week:·o;~~~ Orti  
let. No ~ns will be IIBked... OUR 200() K ol CMEMBERS ARE STILL LOST. IF FOUND PLEASE BRING TO OUA MEETING TONIGHT AT 7. IT'S IM­PORTANT.  WANTED  LOWEST PRICES,BOSE H.K. JVC. ALL TOP BRANDS OFFERED AT SPECIAL STUDENT RATES CALL JB 8232,8228.8213 FOR DETAILS  SMC HALL ELECTIONS THURS. APRIL 22 Vote for next year's hall officers. You can vote in the dining hall during all meals or in · LeMans lobby from 9to 11 a.m. or 1:30 to  save you time and money. Beautiful finished work. 233-9900. ······························-································ ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING tor all those interested. iri working on the 1982· 83 Transfer Orientation Comminee Mon­ SPRING FEVER? Enjoy Poet Richard Tillinghast Wednesday Aprii21 at 7:30 or Thursday April 22 at 4 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge, SMC.  
-~--~j;....+~.···················································l FOR RENT 4 Bdrm N Shore $270 mo total. Call PaHy 3183228736 Callrelunded  De.,.,.._.-ct one or mor. gred­tlon tlciratL c.u 2n-so32. Need nde to PURDUE for Grand Prix on Fri..\pril 23. Can laave anytime. Call Sherri6819  TICKETS Willex~hange BEER or Sfor 1 graduation ticket. l.aura 6816.  4:30p.m. VOTE VOTE VOTE -f:&Siem.."Aiii;t.&&·-p;outii;;··im;;;;u;;c;;&··,ia-­new Campus Costcutters Program. A simpla, inexpensive, and fast method tor shipping personal eHects home. Watch tor details coming soon.  day, April 1.9, 6:30 pm in the PW 24-hr lounge. Any questions call Annie, 2785. e~c.<v-:·v;;;;u:;·;;;;;;~~~i-ih~~-~·d;;;~;; Thanks lor a~eatweekend.l'msohappy you're here. JEFF  Bruce. YOII re cool. But, then again, you already know that. ································-············· Hey, JeH (Nocrotch) Novotny, where is my lawn mower? -THO'iifiv:rHC"onii................................  
·········~······················································  ································································  ·········:································"'''''"''.'"''''''''  ,,,.,,:•••oooo,,,,,,,,.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.,.,,,,,,,.. ,,,,,  

t 
------------~--­
The Observer -Sports Monday, April19, 1982-page·9 




•• ..­
--·--­
..
-...: . 

Belles place ten instate track meet 
Ten members of the Saint Mary's 
NonhviJk, Mich., in thr 1,500 Sbon, Kerri Klein (a freshman from College track team earned berths 
meters. Ingleside, Ill.) and Barb Holsinger (a over the weekend to the state Divi­
•Cindy Short, a sophomore from freshman from Canton, Ohio).sion Ill championship meet in two 
Calgary, Alberta, In the 800 meters. 
weeks. Finally, the 800-medley relay
• Ann Bounon, a freshman from 
The following individuals team of Boutton, Holsinger, lsom
Brecksville, Ohio, in the 100 meters. quaUfied for individual titles: and Elaine Brenner (a sophomore
•Chris Obbagy, a freshman from Oak Forest, Ill., In the javelin throw.
• 
Mary McGlinch, a freshman from from West Bloomfield, Mich.) Mahtomedi, Minn., in the 5,000 qualified for the states.

•Helen 
Calacci, a freshman from meters. 


Wheaton, Ill., in both the shotput The state championships will be•Uz Brady, a junior from Planta­and the discus. 
held on April 30 and May I at Ander­tion, Ha., in the 3,000 meters. Also qualifying for SMC was the 
son College. -The Obseroer 
•Annette lsom, a junior from 
400-meter relay team of Boutton, 
CLUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS 
April Is the time to re-regitser your group for University recognition and itlensuing privileges. Forms are available in Student Activities Office. By Aprll30, you must complete: 
1. New registration form 
2. financial statement (81-82 school year) 
3. Report or statement of activities for 81-82 school year. 
The above are pre-requisites for funding in Sepwniber, use of facilities, and ttllglblllty for fund-raising ventures, including footbQII concttssion stands and the movitt lottery. 
• • • Track 

continuedfrom page J2 
hadn't trained well the last two weeks because he thought he had a hamstring problem. 
"As soon as they (Van Eyken and Pearcy) start training properly," said Kelly, "they'll run extraordinary times." 
Charlie Bailey of Notre Dame had to be happy with his third-place javelin toss of 167-3 1/2. 
Bill Ribera was less than pleased with his sixth-place finish in the 400­meter intermediate hurdles, but the senior from California has been known to hate cold weather, espe­cially after he contracted pneumonia during this year's indoor season. "Some people don't think so," said Rlbera, "but the weather af­fects everything you do." 
The weather didn't seem to bother the Irish jumpers, whose events were held indoors in the ACC. Irish freshman Chuck Con­stable took third place in the high jump with a leap of6-8. He also had a very good try at seven feet. Another Irish freshman, James Patterson, placed third in the long jump with a 23-3 effort, only three inches shon ofthe winning jump of 2 3-6. 
Kelly particularly was pleased with the efforts of the jumpers and added, "It was really nice to see Steve Chronert make a contribu­tion." Chronert took fourth place in the pole vault after clearing 14-6. Chronert said he wasn't intimidated by Indiana's highly regarded Dave Volz, who jumped 2-6 higher than Chronert to win the event. 
continuedjrompage 10 
Harmony Davtdson and the Mtnslrel Cycles over 
Bo•er Shorts Brtat Appearance by 1 1 
Cooz over No Sugar Added by t 2 
J J. Young s Auto and Rtbs over That s Atghl, Wez 
Badllby tO 
T P S Agatn over Dog Walsh and the Htgh Rates II 
by t7 
Red Rummers over Who the Hell Are These Guys 
by t3 
Wtldcats II over Austrian Deportees by 4 
Bookator.10 

Mangled Baby Ducks over Ftve Doomers that Still 
E>ISI by 6 
Beecher Meatand Ltquor over Sntle Museum and 
Four Other Muiii·Mtl~on Dollar Wastes by 6 
Twtnkte and the Creamer over Phil Latta and Four 
Skms by 4 
Snag over Sons ot Thunder II by t 0 
Macn·s Monkey Men over Shooltng Wads by 4 
Gerltol E•preas and Four Lads over Skull and OptiC Jam. 22-20 (OT) Showdown over Buster Hymen and Conme Ltngus are Back and Bener that Ever by 6 
Up and Comtng over Comtn at Ya by t 0 
Eddie 0 Rourke and the Travehno Stagglers over We Bad by 16 Lyona11 , Thomaa Aqumaa and the Junsl Prudes over Death or Glory by t2 Haywood Jablomt Now over Fo.. HooSier Haters 11100 a Ho<>a. by t2 H & S Aeelly over Jtm Pmk, the Blues and the Bog Alld Ed!hon by t2 US o-James BriOdy and the 11/ashongton Bullets by t2 Hey, Where are the While Women At? over Doc­tors of Layup by t 0 Even Less Jacksonless Ftve over The Smooth Ones by t6 Htlla Angels over Four Jerks and a Drtbbler, 23-21 (OT) . 

-~~~;Sty~~,. 
! 

531 N. Michigan St.,l South Bend Phone-233-4957 




iff 
' II 

...___..............! . ..UIUII........~ 
Take Thts Ball and Shove 1111 over Trorans by 4 
Lyona12 

Fthptno Foveover Ml 51 Helen sSkt Team by tortetl 
Stan s Running Bungunners over But Can She Go to Her Lell by tortett Robert E Grant and the Unoon Rebels over You re In Trouble by 2 Ragger, Fellotd and Three Gyps over Fove Men, Etghl Hands by 9 Sumts Viri over Fat Eddte and the Boys thai Come From Behtnd by tortetl Nestle's Crunch and the Bloated Stomachs over Love Sauce by 7 Tequllla While Ltghlntng II over Johnny Corr and the Keg Creatures by t 0 Strapamasquon and the Combat Wombats over 
Penetramos by t 0 
EMO ROUND THREE 
388 tNmaetlmtnatlld 
64ntmaln 
SECTIONAL SEMIANALS Today' a Schedule Stap~n 1 

4:00 -Johnny the Wad Holmes and Four Olhe'r Guys Who Cen Ftll II to !he Brim v. John Belusht Takes the Pepso Challenge 
4:45-Samvrrat Deedmen v. N.E.B.O. sIll 5:30-Assassms v. Uzzy Borden and the Hatchel Men 6:15-T.B. Express It v. Milwaukee 
Stepan~ 

4100 ~ er.og.n's Heroet v. Spontaneous Combus-: loon I 
4;45-Brl<lk ;throwers v. J.J, Youngs Auto aAd· 
Ribs 5:30-B~g Organ and the Bouncmg Balls v. Mitch's and Atch s S.O.B s 
6: t5 -Full House v. Joe Spunk and the Pearl Necklaces 
Sllplln 3 

4:00-John Murphys SLJme Tratn II v. Oumtin Da1ley and Four Felons 
. . . Bookstore 
•u••••••••••..,... ,,,, ...... ,, ... , .. ,,.,,,,, .... ,,, .. ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,n••••••••••••••••••••-• 
Cogimo'g <tlJaUt COegign 
18461 St. Rd. 23 South Bend, call for appointment 2 77-18 75 
-shampoo, conditioner, cut style Guys-$7.00-(reg.13.00) Girls $10.00 (reg.18.00) For Co-Designers Only. 
•

"...............,,~.............~ .........................................................,...................... 
4:45-Stroktng lnsh Cum Agatn v Double Decker 
Oreo 

5:30-Beer Bongs v. A Cranoum 
6:t5-Ryans Hopes v. Doggte Style or No Style 
Step~n 4 

4:00-The Nulmeggers are Back Agatn v. Outnltn Oatley and Hts AII-Amertcan Felons 
4:45 -Geritol Express and the Four Lads v A Touch ot Class 5:30-Eileen 0 Reily Ltters v. 14th Street Aircraft Carriers 
6:t5 -M.C.O.B. v F ., Grass, We Can Still Make the NIT 
Bookaton~ 8 

4:00 -Evenless Jacksonless Five v Nestles 
Crunch and I he Bloated Stomachs 
4:45-Cooz v. H & S Realty 
5:30-Macrt s Monkey Men v Hey. Where are the 
While Women AI? 
6:t5-Talk Plenty S .., Agaon v. Showdown 
Bookatont10 4:00-Sumas Virt v. US 4:45-Htll s Angels v. Shysters 
5:30 -Eddoe O'Rourke and the Traveling Stag­glers v. Ragger, Fehold and Three Gyps 
6:15 -Take Thts Ball and Shove II II v. Strapamasquon and the Combat Wombats 
Lyona11 

4:00 -Spoolhounds II v. Twtnkte and the 
Creamers 4:45-Harmony Davidson and the M>nstrel Cycles 
v. Snag 5:30-Tequtlla Whole L1ghtntng II v. Mangled Baby Ducks 6;t5-Red Rummers v. Up and Comong Lyona12 4:00-Thomas AQUinas and the Jurtst Prudes v. 
Filtpmo Fove 4:45-Beecher Meal and Ltquor v Wtnd Suckers 
5:30 -Robert E. Grant and the Unoon Rebels v. 
Haywood Jablomt Now 6:15-Stan s Running Bungunners v. Wildcats II 

Notre Dame long jumperjames Patterson is shown here in ac­tion at Saturday's Indiana Intercollegiate Track Champonsbips where he placed tbird witb thisjump of23-3. Tbe longjump, high 
jump and pole l'ault competitions were forced inside due to the inclement weather. See Earl Rix' summary on page 12. (Photo by Cheryl Ertelt) 
.• 



The Observer -Sports Monday, April19, 1982-page 10 

An Tostal's Mud Volleyball Tournament continued over the weekend, and willproceed this week to thefinal round, which will beheldon "Sunny Saturday." (Photo by Cheryl Ertelt) 
II e e 


&rimmage 
>-. conttnuedfrompage 12 
downs against the first defense. From 20 yards out, he picked up 16 yards on a keeper to set up first-and­goal at the four. But Duerson came up on the next play and grabbed Brooks in the backfield, and it took the offense another three plays after that before Carter's two-yard dive 
produced a score. 
In another battle between the first units, Karcher took the b~ from first-and-goal at the eight. He threw an incomplete pass, and then Duer­son c~ up and stopped Carter for 

"We're a long way from being a good football team," offered ~aust. "The weather was bad, and we made 
mistakes. But today was a good ex­
perience for us, and for our first _ . . • maJor scnmmage we d1d pretty w~~:_ 
_,,,;·HairCut,Shampoo,BlowDry· 1 
& Conditio~  __  I  
REGULAR $15e00  1  
C"-haM.r"-...5&.:.-Zll THu:,':ia.w~..... NOW $10.00 .-complete (with coupon)  II  

l72-0311•fn·l691 weareonlyminutesfromcampus I 
...,..,.,,..,..,..lroalClllaptl. ---------J 




Bookstore results, schedule 
SECOND ROUND GAMES 

Frlchly'a Rftulls Stepoon1 Fingers in the Socket over The Get None Club Goes to the Hoop by 14 
M.C.O.B. over Lou·s Legacy II by 12 Spac& Cadets over Five Pubes on the Rim by 4 Buford Never Gets Laid over B.P. ·s Peenbags by 6 
Stepan 2 

F . . , Grass, We Can St1ll Make the NIT over Fameless Finale 8 SlickS ... and the Sebac1ous L.M. over Two Micks, Two Wops and a Minonty to be Named later by 10 Samurrai Deadman over Last of the Stoosters by 8 Milwaukee over How to Burn Cookies with Bob Basic by9 Stepan 3 Five ScotiSh Boxers over Judge DIXon and the 
Well-Hung Jury by 7 N E.B.O."s Ill over The Pubic Cube by 12 Badfmger over Phyllis and the Pips by 12 Dogg1e Style or No Style over Son of Dyxz by 15 
Stepan4 Brick Throwets.over The Genenc Unit by 14 

J.J. Young·s Auto and R1bs over Two Dogs and a Coke lor a Buck by 16 W1ndex-the Glass Cleaners over l"ve Got a Bet· ter Idea by 6 The Loadmg Zone over F1ve Guys Named Dick by 14 Stepan5 Ronald Reagan and the Defec1ts over Pac Man and 
H1s Much Men by 13 Mt St. Helen s Sk1 T earn over Arme and the 
A .h . by forfeit Only Games Scheduled Stepan& No Games Scheduled Stepan 7 No Games Scheduled Stepan& No GamesScheduled 
Book81ore9 US over Sp1derman and the Four Avengers by 4 James Brady and the Washington Bullets over 
Yal<s in Heat by 6 Absence of Talent over The Florida Crowtrotters, 23-21 (OT) Take this Ball and Shove It over Jack Daniels and Your Mother by 11 
BoollatoN 10 Five Men, Eight Hands over Barracudas by 11 We Bad over Natalie Wood Aquatic Club by 10 Macri"s Monkey Men over Cocoons Ill by forfeit Trojans over Wood Distributors, Inc. by 12 

Lyone11 Harmony Davidson and the Minstrel Cycles over lncreda-legs M&ets Five Power by 4 Boxer Shorts Brief Appearance over 717 St. Louis by 12 
Ragger, Fe1to1d and Thr&e Gyps over B1shop 
Nestle and the Chocolate Cadavers by 11 
Penetramos over Reckless Abandon by 3 
Lyona12 

Hoban·s Heroes over Billy Jean King and Four 
Ways to Lick Your Opponent by 17 
Snag over Frantic by 2 

Sons of Thunder II over Quintin Dailey and Four 
Guys Who Force It Inside by 9 

Strapamasquon and the Combat Wombats over 
Team Bud by 12 
Seturdey's RNulls 
Stepan 1 
Endangered Feces over The Clinic by forfeit 

Quintin Dailey and the Four Felons over Box and 
One by6 

Spontaneous Combustion ove(Four BtowoHs and 
a Deep Throat by 5 

John Belushi Takes the PepSI Challenge over 
Quintin Dailey and Four More Who Can Put It in the 
Hole by5 

Four Hetero" s and Yoder over Mike Huntiches and 
the Crabs by 4 

Stroking Irish Cum Again over W11're Still Not 
Domersby9 

Full House over Pen1saurus and the Four Sk1ns by 
8 
Only Games Scheduled 
Stepan 2 

The Nutmeggers Are Back Agatn over The Rack 
Pack by6 

Five Average White Men over K1tchel and the 
Kam•kaze Thunderblrds by 5 

L1nda Lovelace and the Throats over Fau Enough 
by t4 

Chuck Connor's Last Chance over We D1d 11 Our · 
Way by forfeit 

A Touch of Class over Five Guys thai Can Beat 
Landon Turner One-on-One by 15 

Double Decker Or&O over Dip and the Cockless 
Wondersby6 

The Ox and the Hot-Shooting Z-M&n II over 
Anonymous by 11 
Only Games Schedul&d 
Stepan 3 

Cozmic Decreeze over The Blood Suck1ng 
Monk&ys from W. Millin Penn by 4 

Dribbling Dyxz over Nicole·s Dad. Aunt and Three 
Uncles, 24-22 (OT) 

We Want to Play Five Guys that Can Penetrate but 
Can't Shoot in the First Round over Mike Cahill's 
Gaza Strippers by 2 . 

Brogan's Heroes over Anwar Sadat and 
Grandstand Shooter by 4 

Four Pinch Hitters and McKelvy over Captam K1rk 
and the Things that Wouldn"t Leave by 7 

The Air Florida Swimming and Diving Club over 
HRSby8 

Prophylactic and the Safe Shooters Come Again 
over Similac and the Four Dead Babies by 2 
Only Games Scheduled 
Stapan4 

Quintin Dailey and His All-American Felons over 
We"ll Steal 20 by 10 Lizzy Borden and the Hatchet 
Men over Jackitup by 5 

John Murphy's Slime Train Ill over Tamar and the 
wast&a-seeds by 12 

Storek&eper's Misfits over Quintin Dailey and Four of His Counts by 12 Johnny the Wad Holmes and Four Other Guys Who Can Fill II to the Brim over TAFTASS by 3 
Skull and Optic Jam over You Gotta Want II by 4 Joe Spunk and the Pearl N&eklaces over Triple Stuff Oreo by 5 
Only Games Sch&duled Stapen5 Wildcats 11 over Old Men on the Block by forfeit 
Only Game Schedul&d Stepan&No Games Scheduled 
Stepan 7 
No Games ScheduledStepen 8 
NoGam&sScheduled 
Booketorell 

Five Doomers that Still Exist??? over Mung and the Restless by 10 
Hawkins and the Bad-Asses over Coach Gypo·s Pervone Heads by 6 Shysters over Natalie Wood Swim Team by 14 
Four Hoosier Haters and a Hoosier over Sid"s 
Seamen Meet the Men in the Boat by 15 Head and Seamon Realty over The Five Def&nders by 10 
Phil Latio and the Four Skins over Th& Denver Gin Wr&ekers by 3 __ . J:l!ll"s Angels over San Quentin Dailey by 9 
Talk Pl&nty S. Aga~n over T.D. Express by 16 Only Games Scheduled 
BMkatore10 
Thomas Aquinas and the Jur1st Prudes over The Proliesby3 Wind Suckers over Agent Orange and the Aner­
EHocts by6 The Avengers over Chuck Taylors, 27-25 (OT) Stan·s Runmng Bungunners over Bookstore for 
Bonzo by 12 But Can She Go to Her Left over We ve Got Your Mother by 5 No Sugar Added over we·ll Steal 20 Wins -Sure byforfe1t Tequilla White L1ghtmng II over Peanut Butter Legs by5 Dog Walsh and the H1gh Rates II over Five Lazy Sods by9 Eddie o·Rourke and the Traveling Stragglers over Virtuals by 16 Lyons11 Death or Glory over F1ve D.O.D. s Mer Some S by the Pool by 13 
JohMy Corr and the Keg Creatures over Bloody Rubble and the Kansas C1ty Hotel Sky Walkers, 22 · 20(0T) 
Be&cher Meat and Liquor over F1ve Guys Who"d 
Rather Be 1n Evansv1lle by 15 Austrian Deportees over NYAAW!. 23-21 (OT) You"<&'" Trouble over The SophtSIICados by torten Jim P1nk. the Blues and the B1g R&d EdiiiOn over 
Anwar Sadat and the Gunners by 9 Spoofhounds II over Logan·s Heroes by 4 Buster Hymen and Conme L1ngus are Back arid 
Better Than Ever ove1 Har.g On nby 7 Only Garnes Schedul&d 
----Lyona12---· Filipino F1ve over Mackin HIQh, 22-20 (OT) Mangled Baby Ducks over 169 Longnocks by 7 Snrte Museum and Four Other Muni-Million Dollar 
Wastes over Pete McDonald by 15 Four Jerks and a Dribbler over The Neplusultras by 10 Haywood Jablom1 Now over The Greater Metropolitan Area Gyrating GIQOios by 11 
Robert E. Grant and the Union Rebels over F1ve Guys Who Hav&n·t Dat&d A.C. A Vanishing Breed by8 
Twmk1e and the Creamers over Tan Masters by 11 
ShowdOwn over The Second CornltiQ of the Em­barrassmg Slams by 6 Only Games Scheduled 
END ROUND TWO 
SECTIONAL QUARTERFINALS 
Y~aRMutts 
Stepoon 1 
The Nutmeggers Are Back Aga~n over Cozmic Debr&eze by 14 Quintin Dailey and Four Felons over Five Average White Men by 10 John Belushi Takes the Pepsi Challenge over 
Chuck Connors Last Chance by 5 N.E.B.O.'s Ill over Five Scotish Boxers by 10 Big Organ and his Bouncing Balls over KamikazH 
by2 Assassins over Dribbling·oyxz by 5 Ryan's Hopes over Club Spotcial by 3 
T.B. Express over Buford Never Gets Laid by 6 SlepM2 Quinttn Dailey·s All-American Felons over Ronald Reagan and the Deficrts by 6 Lizzy Borden and the Hatchet Men over Endan­
ger&d Foces by 6 Brogan·s Heroes over Storal<&eper"s Misfits by 4 Brick Throwers over Badfinger by 6 B&erbongs over 2-C Losers by 3 Mrtch"s and AICh"s S.O.B.s over Bill Pucell and the 
Fr&neh Voyageurs by 3 Doggie Style or No Style over The Loading Zone, 22-20 (OT) /· Milwauk&e over we·r& Ptaytng for a Michelob Light by7 Slepen3 Spontaneous Combust100 over Linda lovelat:e and the Throats by 4 Stroking Irish Come Again over Windex -The Glass Cleaners by 2 Double Decker 0r&O over Air Flonda Swimming and Diving T earn by 8 F ..., Grass. We Can Sttll Make the NIT over Slick S ... and the SebaciOUS L.M. by 14 14th Str&et Aircraft Carriers over Fingers '" the Socketby5 
A. Cran1urn over Sons of Pete by 9 Full House over The Ox and the Hot-Shooting Z­Men II by 10 SlepM4 
John Murphy·sSiime Train Ill over We Want to Play Five Guys that Can P&netrate but Can't Shoot in th& First Round by 12 
Johnny the Wan Holmes and Four Other Guys Who Can Fill It to the Br1m over Four P1nch Hitters and McKelvyby6 
A Touch of Class over Four Heteros and Yoder by 11 Samurra1 De admen over Absence of Talent by 10 
M.C.O.B. over Space Cadets by 2 . Eileen o·Reilly L1fers over Sam G1lbert·s Coathan­gerKidS by8 
Joe Spunk and the P&art Nocklaces over Prop­hylactiC and lhe Sate Shooters Come Agam by 7 
Bookelorea W1nd Suckers over Hawkins and the Ban-A 
22-20 Shysters over The Avengers by 12 SpoofhoundS II over Hoban·s Heroes by 7 
See BOOKSTORE, page 9 

no gain. A Karcher-to·Favorite pass play drew an interference cin on Toran, but it took four more plays before Carter punched it over from the one. Zavagnin had two big plays in that defensive stand 
Kiel saw action with both the first and second offense, and put togeth­er some longer drives that included a 23-yard pass to Bavaro and a 26­yard strike to Howard. 
O'Hara engineered a 70-yard touchdown drive against the No. 2 defense, aided by Brooks' 16-yard gain, a pass pl<ty to Carter good for 25 yards. and a 15-yard throw to Favorite at the one. Carter carried it into the end zone. 

d

Standouts for the secon team Saturday included guard Neil Maune on offense, and tackleJon Autry and 
end Mansel Carter on defense. Autry was moved inside to nose last week 
behind Marshall; Carter recorded a pair of quarterback sacks and a 
broke up a pass. Second team linebackers Chris Smith,jack Shields and Tom Murphy all looked good. 
Faust was impressed with kicker Mike johnston, who was 2-of-2 on 
PATs and connected on a 35-yard field goal also. 
AJaeyea~?
-fabe flee 1982-1983 CufhrJWf Aw AMi6&ucl ~m. ~MeLeiMg aeeepW-'FtUdog. AprUf 16 
... 
-.., UICfif 'FtUdog. Aprail23 

Cacepitk up yet~~t ~ilt Bee Sftulacf u.au•W6htt,·~
"..............._ 
. 
-------~

.---------------------­
Ihe~crer======================================== 


~~4()l~~~============================M=o=n=d=a=y,=A=p=ri=l=19=,=1=9=82===p=a=g=e=l=l 



Doonesbury 
Ht't lliJ'H(Mt, Ht'5 01/T AT ~5 TIE stA. /.'R. f.{}{)­J MAN? RJ(j()CZ. H& I IVTTHRE& 


Simon 

JIIHE#'S IE SOIIRY. SIR, MR. aJI(ta£BACK~ 70/.PMJMJT70AC­I .cnrA r~ CtPTANYNWIJIJSI­ou 1 v""' N!SS f{)/( HIM. H&'S FOR ~IM. 6«N6 708t r;qJt 


The Daily Crossword 
©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
Michael Molinelli 
FIV!i weus~ NO. 5/R, 7H& PHI?&'S FAJ.KI.)W{)15iANPS. 
H& GO/N6, Hc'5 TIIK/NG II CHAR­Q:W.4181A? 7fl<. or5t6HT!iEUS 
I . /?Oti!N 70 IA/A7allH/3 
8RIT/5H 8tiJO<AP(;.1 I 


NOW IF ONLY t:o(VJE ~I'OI'LE. 
WOuLD C.OM£... HEY, ITERE I 
UIME'i> OJR FI~ST CoNTf~1AAT • 
ACROSS 25 Swamp 1 Yemen 28 Boots and money shoes 
6 Michel· 32 Typewriter angelo type sculpture 33 Family 
11 Hiatus group 
14 An Astaire 34 Adenauer 
15 Borders epithet 
16 Card game 35 Antle 
17 Kingdom 36 Dips water 
1 B Kefauver's 37-avis hats 38 Declare 
20 Country­positively wide 39 Sothern 
22 Naval con­and Blyth struction 40 Hopeless worker case 
23 Smile 41 Children's 
24 Helsinki game native 43 Wears away 

Friday's Solution 


Campus 
• -Lecture and Panel, Blastoff: Entering the World of Work, Carroll Hall, SMC, Sponsored by Counseling and Career Development Center 
•4 
p.m.-Lecture, George Kassabaum, FAIA, Ar· chitecture Auditorium, Sponsored by Architecture Department 

•7 
p.m. -Meeting, K of C meeting with an In· surance presentation following, K ofC 

•7 
p.m. -FUm, "The Ceremony", Annenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by COTH, n .00 

•s 
p.m. -Lecture, The Incoherence of the Philosophers, Prof. James E. Ross, Biology Auditorium 

•9 
p.m.-FUm, "Kings ofthe Road", Annenberg 


Garry Trudeau 
Auditorium, Sponsored by COTH, S 1.00 




T.V. Tonight 
Monday, Aprill9 
7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 

Jeb Cashin 

8:00p.m.
HI Lt 

~EllO FI!TilfK
WHA1 

I'M COllEEN.
~ltME! 
\ 
8:30p.m. 
9:00p.m. 
lO:OOp.m. 
I0:30p.m. ll:OOp.m.

44 German one 21 Yugoslavian 45 Secular city 46 Spain, to 24 Mare's 
Its citl· offspring zens 25 Award for 
11:30p.m.

49 Small bravery rodent 26 Popeye's 53 Brainless girl one of Oz 27 "-cock· 55 Cars horse..." 
!2:00p.m. 

56 Posed 28 Casual try 
!2:30p.m. 

57 Playground 29 African 
16 MASH 22 CBS News 28 Joker's Wild 34 The Macneil/Lehrer Rcport 46 Believers Voicc of Victory 16 The Muppct Show 22 Family Fcud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 16 Unlc House on the Prairie 22 Private Bcnjarnin 28 Today's FBI 
34 Great Performances 
46 Lester Sumrall Tcachlng 
22 Rcpon to Murphy 
46 Blackwood Brothers 
16 Monday Night at the Movies: "Goin South" 22 MASH 28 ABC Monday Night Movie: "Fatso" 34 Bcrnstcin/Bccthoven 46 Today with l.cstcr Sumrall 22 CBS Repons: Thc Israeli-American 
Conncction 34 Claus Oldcnbcrg's Crusoe Umbrella 46 Jimmy Swaggart 34 The Torn Conic Show 16 News Centcr 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 34 The Dick Cavell Show 46 Praise the Lord 
16 Tonight Show 22 Quincy and Columbo 28 ABC News Nightline 34 Captioned ABC News 28 ABC Movie: "Robin and Marian" 16 Late Night with David Lcnerman 
feature antelope 58 Wading 30 "A poem bird lovely 59 Before as-" 
Lookfor Mr. Goodbar
60 Opera hero 31 Raises 61 A Barrymore 33 Pirogue 36 Ship 
It's time once again for that challenging, intellec· DOWN problem 
tual An Tostal event "Looking for Mr. Goodbar!" 1 Mend 40 Scowl 
Each day this week, clues will appear here in the 2 Brainstorm 42 Most Observer concerning the location ofa Mr. Goodbar3 Tidy delicate cand)f wrapper somewhere on the Notre Dame
4 Avocado 43 Cup handle 5 Self· 45 Nether 
Campus. The first ND or Saint Mary's student to reproach 46 Being 
find the wrapper (and call event chairman Tonia 6 Hickory 47 Result of 
Hap at 283-81 59 with the message on the wrap­nut a wound 
per) will not only demonstrate his or her excep­7 Object of 48 -de tole tional mental prowess, but will also win dinner forworship gras two at Tippecanoe Place Restaurant. 
8 Freudian 49 Extinct term bird 
Good luck! Here's the first clue. 9 Stresses 50 Beehive 
An appreciation ofart may certainly bring one 
10 Concur State 
personal satisfaction. However, this week ap­
11 Fluent 51 Unit of 
preciation of and careful altentlon to a par·
12 Outstanding loudness 
ticular piece of artwork on the Notre Dame
13 Model 52 German 19 Rigged donkey 
Campus will bring one sharp student much more: 
trial 54 -Tin-Tin 
a free non-dining ball dinner! 
·~ 
·­

·-----------------------------------~,


Discount Theatre Tickets are Avai1able at the Student 
Dr. Hatem HussainiUnion Tick.et Office-Director of the PLO'S 

Palestine Information Office
$1.75


Park Mideast Peace
Forum $2.75 

Tuesday, AprillO, 8:00pm Memorial Library Auditorium ­
•' 

. > 

r
, 
r Monday, April 19, 1982 -page 12 
Firstdefense shines ininitialscrimmage 
ByKELLY SULLIVAN out for the rest of the spring. A ten­Sports Writer don injury has forced Greg Bell on crutches temporarily, and Tony 
It was often quickness -the Hunter limped off the field with a other team's -that led to Notre twisted ankle. Dame defeats on several occasions The No. I defense gave up only last fall. Irish coach Gerry Faust was two scores, and those came on intent on remedying that situation. drives started at the 20 and the 8 
As was evidenced in Notre·Dame's yard line. The coaches feel both of­first full-scale spring scrimmage this fense and defense need a lot of goal past Saturday, the team has shown a line work. lot of improvement in that depart­
ment. The defense especially seems 
Spring Football '82
to have picked up some speed. 

And not even the weather -a steady rain and chilling wind ­slowed the Irish Saturday morning. "We've been doing a lot of game­They went at it for an hour and 45 type situations that we thought we minutes before finishing their 12th were poor in last year," stated Faust. practice session, and the intensity The first offense generally showed 
pleased the Notre Dame coach. Barry Young at center, Tom Thayer "We are hitting more this spring," at strong guard and John Putztuck at he acknowledged, "because we strong tackle. Mike Shiner was at
fense scored on a subsequent play, the defense 
didn't do it last year, and we're just quick guard, while Randy Ellis and
dominated throughout the day. See Kelly Sul­
going at it harder this time around. Larry Williams rotated at quick
livan's summaryat right. (Photo by CherylErtelt) 
We've thrown a lot ofthings at them tackle. Joe Howard lined up at flanker, But the quarterbacks had their while Mike Favorite and Bumper
Great matchups 

troubles throwing Saturday, and the Schiro shuttled in at split end. Schiro backs weren't having much luck on switched from defensive back just the ground, either. As expected, it last week. Mark Bavaro replaced the was the defense that turned in the injured Hunter at tight end.
Tourneyreducedtofinal 64 
better performance, though it's no The backfield featured Carter and 
surprise that they be further along at then both Brooks and Sweeney atBy DAVE DZIEDZIC Mitchell was 6-of-7 to lead "Tak•~ Uncles" took 196 shots between this stage. fullback. Faust rotated Kiel, Karcher Associate Sports Editor This Ball and Shove It II" over them. "Dribbling ..." came out on 
Blair Kiel hit half of his ten tosses and O'Hara at quarterback.
• "Trojans" 21-17. The victory sets up top, 22-20. for 65 yards. Jim O'Hara completed "We used a lot of different com­A rash of disqualifications ham­an excellent fourth-round matchup Highly-regarded "Macri's Monkey 
three-of-five for 56 yards, while Ken binations and are trying a lot of dif­pered the weekend's activities as between "Take This Ball .." and Men" survived a scare from Karcher was zero-for-one. ferent people just to give everyone a Bookstore Basketball entered its "Strappamasquon ..." The game "Shooting Wads." Rich Danberg shot 
The day's leading ground gainer, chance," he explained.final week ofaction. will be played tonight at 6:15 10-of-15 in leading "Macri's ..."to a
on Phil Carter, netted only 3 7 yards, On defense, it was Mike Golic,Five teams were disqualified for Books.tore Court 10. 21-17 victory. The game was tied at 
_.., and the longest runs were a pair of Mike Gann, Bob Clasby and Tim 
using ineligible players. In three of Another classic confrontation :will I 7 at one point. 
16-yarders, one each by Mark Marshall up front; Rick Naylor, Mark the cases, the players had played for take place at 4:45 on Bookstort: Now that 389 teams have been 
Brooks and John Sweeney. Brooks Zavagnin and Mike Larkin at the another team previously. In the Court 9, when "Hill's Angels" faces eliminated, the temptation to use in­
totaled 35 yards in nine attempts, linebacker posts; and Chris Brown,other two cases, teams were caught "Shysters." The "Shysters" have eligible players grows. Team cap­Sweeney I 7 in four. 
Stacey Toran, Dave Duerson andJoe using players who did not qualify un­raised several eyes on its way to tains are advised to check carefully 
In addition to the weather, the of­Johnson in the secondary.
der the eligibility rules ofthe tourna­three easy victories. The team con­whether or not a player already has 
fense had to contend with injuries to Karcher directed both touch­ment. sists of five law students, four of played in the tournament. A player is 
several key players. Larry Moriarity 
SeeSC~GE,pagelO

whom played college ball at such only allowed to play for one team. suffered a broken finger Friday and is schools as Kentucky and Canisius.BOOKSTORE XI The gutsy-performance-of-the­weekend award goes to "Johnny the: 
~spite injuries
Wad Holmes and Four Other Guys Despite these incidents, there Who Can Fill It To the Rim." Despite: were several excellent contests, playing four-on-five because ofan el­
Trackstersplacefourth in meet 
most of which were played in bow injury that sidelined Brian beautiful weather, as the field was Frauss only five minutes into the narrowed to 64 teams. game, the team defeated "Four ByEARLRIX the 11-team meet. But since ND was wind and cold to take third in the 
Inthehighest-scoringgameofthe Pinch Hitters and McKelvy," 21-15. 
Sports Writer without the services of star perfor­3,000-meter steeplechase. tournament thus far, "The Aven-Mike Mann was 13-of-25 for the vic­
mers Greg Bell and Paul Doyle, who Notre Dame was in good shape as 
gers" defeated "Chuck Taylor's," 27-tors. spectacular are out with injuries, Jacques Eady handed the baton offto
Few times were the fourth­
25. TedRaymondandJimClarkeach Jim Lucke was 9-of-12 as 
turned in with the cold, windy, rainy place finish can be considered re­Van Pearcy for the second leg of the scored 11 points during the marat-"N.E.B.O.'s III'' defeated "Five Scot-
weather as the Notre Dame hosted spectable. 4x100 meter relay, but Pearcy didn't 
bon. tish Boxers," 21-11. the Indiana Intercollegiate Track The Irish started the meet on a get a good hold on the baton and In another sensational third-In a game that could have taken 
and Field Championships on Satur­high note when Tim Bartrand and dropped it. round game, Dave McMahon scored place during last Monday's bliz~ard, day at Cartier Field. Dan Walsh took third and fourth Senior John McCloughan lost to 12, but "Four Jerks and a Dribbler" "Dribbling D ..." and "Nicole and 
The Irish finished fourth behind place, respectively, in the 10,000 his old nemesis, Mark Cammack of lost to "Hill's Angels," 23-21. Steve Christopher's Dad, Aunt, and Three 
Indiana, Purdue and Indiana State in meters. Ed Juba then braved the Purdue, in the 110-meter high Hib scored nine for the winners. ~~~======~================================================================================ hurdles, but still placed second in 
"Hill's Angeb" advanced to the third TJ'l.omen's tenn;"' the event. Fellow senior Bill Ribera 
round by defeating San Quintin YY( ...., 
managed a fourth in the same event. Tim Cannon and Andy Dillon 
placed third and fourth, respective­

~::~f7'~i~~~ ~~~~s~:-v::~~~f-~~~ r,...;sl--rarptulll'nfi""'"t vl4cto,...;es
Top-ranked "T.P.S. Again" 1/ 1/. 1r.J Vj '/ Cot I J, 1/ I 1/ 
ly, i t n the 1500-meter run. Eadyallowed a total ofonly nine points In 

followed that np with a sixth-placetwo weekend victories. Playing ByJANE HEALEY "If we were outside on 12 courts teamed up with fellow freshman finish in the 400 meters. without Greg Bell, who is sidelined Sports Writer like we should have been, it would 
Camille Cooper at third doubles for Steve Dziabis looked good in the with a few minor injuries, the have been really nice," commented a 3-0 record. 
second open 800-meter race of his defending runners-up defeated "It feels nice to win." Petro. "Instead, we were pushed career. Leading most of the way,"T.D. Express" 21-5 and "Dog That was the reaction of Sharon inside on only three courts. It was Petro cited the long two-week Dziabis was passed coming out of Walsh" 21-5. In the latter game, Petro, the Notre Dame women's ten· pretty bad." break prior to this weekend as the 
the last turn byJim Spivey oflndiana 

1981 Mr. Bookstore Tim Collins was nis coach after her team recorded a Inside or out, Petro was pleased main reason the Irish were success­and Nicky Edwards of Indiana State. 
7 -of-8. Chris Brown is playing for the two win, one loss weekend. The two "The girls just tired of
with the performance of her team. ful. were Dziabis said that he ran a dumb race,
injured Bell, who may return to ac­wins were the first two victories for competing against losing," she states. "Winning and
The Irish were and assistan,t coach Ed Kelly said that 
tion today. the women all spring. three Division I schools in contrast losing are both contagious, and we he should have won, but the vastly
Greg Knafelc scored 18 points in Friday, the team travelled to the Division II Irish. became attached to losing. The greater experience of former NCAA two games as "Strappamasquon and Kalamazoo, Mich. That afternoon "All the schools were really tough, break helped us forget all that, and champion Spivey was evidenced as the Combat Wombats" advanced to the Irish defeated Northern Illinois, especially Western now hopefully we are infected with
Michigan," the Hoosier star made his move at 
the fourth round Knafelc was 13-of-6-3. After a night's rest, the team remarked Petro. "It was good com­the winning bug." exactly the right time and calmly20 in one ofthe contests, as his team came out Saturday morning to lose petition." 
won another race.

The Irish have another week
defeated "Penetramos" 21-11. In to Western Michigan, 5-4, but The highlights of the weekend Freshman sprinter Mitch Vanbreak before their only home matchthat game, Phil Pozderac of bounced back to beat Kent State, 5­
were produced by some prior stan­Eyken had a fine day as he placed
of the spring against Northern Il­"Strappamasquon ..." didn't arrive 4. Their spring record is now 2-9. douts. Sophomore Pam Fischette third in the 100-meter dash, third inlinois on April 27. 
until halftime. In its other victory, The bad weather both days forced was undefeated at third singles, win­the 200, and ran the fastest leg on 
"Strappamasquon ..." defeated all the matches inside to a limited ning all three of her weekend According to Petro, "The team is 
Notre Dame's 1600-meter relay"Team Bud" 21-9. Blair Kiel was 1-number of courts. The result was matches. Freshman Laura Lee also playing a whole lot better than ear­team. Kelly labeled Van Eyken a of-12 and John Krimm was 1-of-10 that each match was cut to a maxi· turned in a clean slate of 3-0 at fifth lier this spring." Hopefully, for Petro "fine competitor" and said that he 
mum of ten games instead of the:

for "Team Bud." singles. and her crew, the improvement is 
See TRACK, page 9

-In his Bookstore debut, Mike usual best ofthree sets. As for the doubles pairings, Lee permanent. 





