
Game photos -p(lge 8
I I I 

VOL. XVII, NO. 1-:r the intkpemknt ~tutknt ne\\ ~paper 'en in!!, notre dame and ~aint mary·, MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1982 
~Stable condition' 
Hit-and-run injures students 
By DIANE MARIE DIRKERS according to Dean of Students Jim the path of a vehicle traveling SeniorStaffReporter Roemer. eastbound on Howard. He landed on Kohnke was admitted to St. top of the vehicle and broke its 
Two Notre Dame students and a Joseph's hospital with a broken windshield, sustaining only minor South Bend resident were injured in sh t oulder and a broken leg. Her con­injuries. He was released from St. two separate accidents occuring fif­dition is also listed as stable. Joseph hospital the same afternoon. teen minutes apart early Saturday 
Jack Miltonberger. 27, of Misha­morning. A spokesman for the South Bend
waka was apprehended as the driver Kathleen Garvey. a 20 year-old police department said he didn't feel
of the hit-and-run vehicle. Charges
resident of Lewis Hall, and Billie]. the accident was the result of stu­
against him include driving while in­
Kohnke, a 2-:r year-old South Bend 
toxicated, leaving the scene ofan in­dents congregating on the streets 
resident. are both listed in stable outside of the bars. "Even though
jury accident, and disregarding a red 
condition after a hit-and-run acci­the bars were overflowing, the stu­
light. He was released on hond Satur­
dent at the intersection ofEddy and dents were staying on the
day, awaiting trial. 
Corbv streets. William Rungaitis, a sidewalks," he said. "What must be 22 y~ar-old off-campus student, sus­The second incident occured at remembered, however, is that the tained minor injuries after a cycling 2:'12 a.m.--about fifteen minutes af­intersection of Corby, Eddy, and accident at the intersection of ter the hit-and-run accident. William South Bend Avenue is a dangerous Howard and Lawrence streets. Rungaitis, cycling northbound on one. When in the 5-point area, stay The fir~t incident occured at 2:28 Lawrence street, disregarded a stop out of the streets and watch the sig­
a.m. Saturday morning. A silver El sign at the intersection of Lawrence nals very carefully. We don't want to Camino. traveling at about ~0 miles and Howard streets and rode into see this incident repeated." per hour, struck Kohnke before the imersection of Corby and Eddy 
streets. The driver accelerated through a red light, striking a second 

SMC Board supports
victim, Kathleen Garvey, and drag­ging her I 00 feet through the inter­section. The car then fled down 

United Way drive 

South Bend Avenue. Several wit­nesses who were congregated on By MARY ANN POTTER traditional second semester school 
News Staff

the sidewalk at the time were able to charity, in which students donate identify the vehicle. money and vote on the charity to Garvey suffered a multiple The Saint Mary's Board of Gover­which it will be given. nance voted to support United Way In other business, Head of Volun­
fracture of the pelvic bone, a fracture nose, lacerations, and minor as a first semester charity at its teer Sevices, Mary Turgi, CSC, spoke 
meeting last night. The Volunteer

internal injuries. The latest report on the new Volunteer Services Cen­from St. Joseph's hospital lists Gar­Services Center, Regina Hall elec­ter, located in Holy Cross basement.
..."" 
Notre Dam;piayers celebrate after a key defensive play in the vey as fully conscious, stable, and tions, and Oktoberfest also were dis­The Center provides a meeting cussed. place for the various Saint Mary's
23-17 Irish victory over the Michigan Wolverines. The defense "progressing nicely." "She will playeda big role in Saturday night'sgame, holdingMichigan to 41 definitely be able to return back to Social justice commissioner Kris volunteer groups as well as an in­
Trotter explained that there are ~ 7 formation center for students in­

netyards rushing. (Photo by Rachel Blount) school for the spring semester," 
agencies in United Way, and stu­terested in volunteer work. dents would be able to allocate the There will be a meeting donated money in any way they Wednesday night at 7:~0 p.m. in the chose. Student Body President Kath­Regina board room for any student



Israel denies involvement... 
leen Murphy stressed the impor­interested in running for hall of­tance of"educating the students" on ficers. Duties of the officers will be JERUSALEM ( AP)-Prime Minister the tranquility of the Jewish New 
the selected charity. A fund-raising discussed.
Israel sent its troops into Moslem
Menachem Begin's governmem Year holiday with shouts demanding event will be held to gather the Oktoberfest will take place Oc­
west Beirut saying it was tr)·ing to
issued a statement early today .that Begin and Defense Minister donated money. tober 5, 6 and 7, according to Stu­
prevent revenge attacks ater Tues­
rejecting "with contempt" any Ariel Sharon resign. Three year~ ago. the Board voted dent Activities Programming Board
dav's assassination ofPresident-elect
charge that it was responsible for the Police scuffled with the protes­not to supp'>rt United Way because Commissioner Sue Flynn. Hall
B~hir Gemayel, the leader of the 
massacre of Palestinian civilians in tors and used tear gas to disperse the of its connection to Planned Paren­decorations must be up by Tuesday
Christian Phalange Party. The move 
two Beirut refugee camps. crowd that included at least four thood. Now, Planned Parenthood is Oct. 5. The Sound ofMusic will be
provoked an outcry from the Begin
The 4-hour emergency Cabinet left-wing members of Parliament. not listed as one ofits agencies. playing at 7 p.m. on Oct. 6 and 7. The 
meeting, held at Begin's home, Another crowd of angry See ISRAEL, page 4 Saint Mary's also will have its Beer Garden will be Oct. 7 at H p.m. ended in the early morning hours demonstrators was waiting when with a statement calling any such Begin emerged from a synagogue "direct or indirect accusation" yesterday afternoon after a prayer against lsrael"a blood libel." service and about I 50 people staged 
, , .as Lebanese troops begin clean-up
It expressed "deep grief and a protest near the northern border regret" over the hundreds of Pales­with Lebanon, Israel radio reported. 
BEIRUT, Lebanon ( AP)-Lebanese children gunned down in their the rubble.
tinians killed by Israel's Lebanese Opposition Labor Party president troops took over the Chatilla and homes and in the streets. Wazzan lashed out at the UnitedChristian allies and said the Israeli Shimon Peres went on television to 
Sabra refugee camps in west Beirut Lebanon's military command said States yesterday, saying it hadarmy had ended the slaughter and demand that Begin and Sharon yesterday as workers removed the its soldiers took over the camps guaranteed security in Beirutforced the militiamen to leave the resign, saying, "they have ministerial rotting corpses from a massacre by from the Israeli troops who had following the Palestine Liberationcamps "as soon as it learned of the responsibility for two things" ­rightist Christian gunmen. Prime sealed them off after the massacres, Organization withdrawal earlier this
tragic events." ordering Israeli toops into west Minister Shafik Wazzan called for a which began Friday and continued month.
The statement said claims that Is­!}drut last Wednesday and allowing prompt return of foreign until early Saturday morning. An He said the departure ofthe 2, I 00rael was to blame for the incide.•t the massacre to occur. 
peacekeepers to the Lehanese capi­army broadcast urged camp resi­American, French and Italian troops"are entirely baseless and wit1.out Egypt, Israel's only friend in the 
tal. dents to go back home and appealed who supervised the PLO withdrawal any foundation. The gover .ment Arab world, announced yesterday it 
Israel, trying to explain the for doctors to help treat the "ailowed this horrible mao;sacre ...
rejects them with the contempt they may withdraw its ambassador from 
tragedy 10 angry citizens and an wounded. The United States is called upon to
deserve." Tel Aviv in protest if the fighting in outraged world, insisted that its sol­Israel said the killings were send back the multinational force."
"No one will preach to us ethics Lebanon escalates. 
diers prevented a "'orse disaster and carried out by gunmen loyal to West Beirut's religious and politi­and respect for human life, values President Reagan, who expressed said the Lebanese army should have Gemavel's Phalange Party, while cal leaders isssued a joint statementwhich we have educated and will "outrage and revulsion" at the moved into the Palestinian camps Leban~se Moslem leaders blamed saying the government shouldcontinue to educate generations of hundreds of deaths in the refugee 
earlier. the lsrali-backed militia ofSaad Had­demand "more than internationalIsraeli fighters," it said. camp massacres, called for the im­The Israelis pulled hack from dad, a renegade Christian Lebanese observers ... Forces capable ofdeter­A senior Israeli official who mediate withdrawal of Israeli troops some of the west Beirut positions army major. Both groups denied in­ring aggression are required."
refused to be identified said the from west Beirut. 
they seized last week when they said volvement. In east Beirut. Israel's chiefofstaff,Cabinet avoided saying whether the Bt:gin's government. seeking to they wanted to prevent bloodshed The International Red Cross said Gen. Raphael Eytan, told a news con­Christian militiamen went into the ease some of the pressure, began after tht: assasination of Christian hundreds died in the attacks, while ference, "We had been trying toPalestinian camps, purportedly .to moving troops out of ~cveral Be~ rut President-ekct Bashir (jemayel. But Palestine Liberation Organization coordinate with the Lebanese armysearch for PLO guerrillas, with Is­neighborhood~ but there was no in­lsrad still controlled the :\loslem-chairman Yasser Aratat claimed to have it come in (to the camps),raeli approval or coordination. dication of a full-~cale evacuation . dominated st:ctor and imposed a 'i more than I,400 people were hut in vain -for all sorts of reasons,But he said the Israeli troop~ "did from the Lebant:se capital. 
p.m. to 'i a.m. curft:w. slaughtered. political and apparently notnot han· any hint whatsoever they The military command ~aid Details of the attacks on Sabra and Associated Press newsmen military."
(the militamen l would carry out a Lehane~e army ~oldier~ hcgan taking Chatilla were ~till a my~tery a~ relief counted more than I 00 bodies in Had the army moved in at the out­
~laughter.·· over ~ecurity for the refugee camp;, workcrs wearing oxygen masks the two camps Saturday, hut some set. he claimed, "there would have
:\n estimated ';Oil demonstrators yesterday morning "in full coopera­tackled the piles of bodie~ of old spots had been heavily bulldozedgathered at Begin·~ home:: and broke:: tion with the brae! l>efeh~e Forces... 
mt:n. tt:t:n-agers, women aml and human limbs protruded from See CLEAN-UP, page 5 

News Brie~ 
By 1he ( Jhsen•f!r antl7he Associated Press 
The SaintMary's ParentsCouncil Board ofDirec­tors met Friday and Saturday on campus for the first of two scheduled meetings during the 1982-83 academic year. Included on the weekend agenda were reports from president John Duggan and William Hickey, vice president and dean of the faculty. An advisory board whose members are appointed by Duggan, the Parent's Coun­cil is comprise<! of 51 parents ofcurrent Saint Mary's students. The Parents' Council Board of Directors has scheduled its second meeting for February 26-27. -The Observer 
Chinese-Americans marched through a 
Japanese section of Los Angeles Saturday to protest revisions of Japanese history books on World War II. Chanting "down with Japanese imperialism," about 500 people marched Saturday morn­ing from City Hall to the Japanese consulate two blocks away. The protesters demanded that recently revised school books be changed now rather than in 1985, as theJapanese government has promised. The revised texts describe theJapanese invasion ofChina in 1931 as an "advance" and minimizeJapanese deeds before and during World War II. -AP 
The Georgia Bureauof Investigation has called off the search for canisters of cocaine apparently dumped from an airplane in the north Georgia countryside. Before ending the search Saturday, investigators found 447 pounds of cocaine with an es­timated street value of more than SSOO million. "We are convinced we have found all there is to find," said Roy Harris, special agent in charge at Gainesville. The investigation began Sept. 10 when a far­mer reported that his cows were frightened by something in his pasture. Deputies discovered the first of several era! canisters of cocaine, apparently dropped by mistake from a drug smuggler's plane. -AP 
With tears streaming down his face, a previously blind.Southeast Asian immigrant cried, "I can see! I can see!" when doctors in Seattle removed bandages from his eyes. Ngoc Ho Tu pointed in fascination to the lights, the window, and the blood pressure cuff around his arm when bandages were removed follow­ing an artificial lens implant operation, said Gail Hannah, a spokes­woman at St. Cabrini Hospital in Seattle where the operation was performed Friday. The Chinese-Vietnamese man, who is about 60, had been sightless for the past four months due to cataracts. He came to the United States a month ago through a United Nations program. 
-AP 
China said yesterday it will not join a world nuclear test ban until the Soviet Union and the United States reduce their nuclear arsenals. The English-language Peking Daily said in an editorial that a nuclear test ban without reduction of existing ar­senals would only help Moscow and Washington consolidate their nuclear superiority over non-nuclear states. "The Chinese govern­ment is willing to undertake its obligation after the two superpowers fulfill theirs," it said. The U.N. Disarmament Committee is discussing a world treaty banning nuclear arms testing, but the United States and the Soviet Union have not yet agreed on a framework for such an agreement. -AP 
Cambodian Foreign Minister Hun San said 
guerrillas opposed to his Vietnamese-backed regime suffered a 
major defeat in recent months, the official Phnom Penh news agency 
SPK said yesterday. Hu Sen said the Cambodian army had crushed 
rebels loyal to the ousted Khmer Rouge regime and other guerrillas 
along the Thai-Cambodian border and in the interior ofthe country, 
SPK said. He accused China and the United States of backing Cam­
bodian reistance groups, it said. Cambodian guerrillas are trying to 
topple the Vietnam-installed government of Heng Samrin. Viet­
namese troops took Cambodia's capital of Phnom Penh in January 
1979 and ousted the regime of Pol Pot. -AP 
Princess Grace said in one of her final interviews that the raising ofchildren was her greatest challenge. "Being a mother is a very creative job," she said. "In today's world, it may be looked down on but I think there is no greater challenge to women than raising children and trying to help them build their characters." The interview was carried in the Sunday People, a British tabloid newspaper. The princess died Tuesday at the age of 52 after an auto accident. Princess Grace, who gave up a Hollywood film career to marry Prince Rainier of Monaco, said, "You want to give them your experiences in life, but they have to learn for themselves. You can­not make your children's decisions." -AP 
Cloudy, breezy and cool with a zo percent chance of showers mainly in the early morning. High in the upper 50s and low 60s. Clearing at night and cool. Low ilt the upper 30s and low 40s. Mostly sunny Tuesday and pleasant. High in the low and mid 60s. -AP 
Monday, September 20, 1982 -page 2 


Praying against Jesse Helms 
• 
Jesse Helms and his conservative Senate cronies were upset last Thursday by radical left-wing Senators when an anti-abortion proposal missed approval by just one vote. 
And today, poorJesse is still upset. 

The conservative Republican from North Carolina has had nearly three weeks to make his social vision a legislative reality as the Senate paused momentarily to swat the social issue fly that has been bugging the cham­ber for a year and a half. 
Time is almost out, as is the patience of Majority Leader Howard Baker, who is itching to get on to more pressing matters. But jesse is mad. If the abortion amendment appears lost, then so be it: We will not lose on school prayer. 
You gotta love the intensity, but, Jesse, how can on·e person get so upset about legislating prayer in public schools? Is it really that important1 
The problem is thatJesse really does consider public school prayer important, and now someone has to waste time defeating Jesse again. But unlike the abor­tion fiasco, Jesse has dug in and vowed to win. 
The whole thing bothers me. Nothing seems more ridiculous, more superfluous than drafting national of the issue. Putting prayer in public schools seems to me to be a slap in the face of prayer itself. Does Helms really think a repetious procedure will somehow elevate the morals ofthose modern degenerate kid? Has he stopped to consider what happens to prayer when put in the atmosphere ofclassroom? 

What I think would happen -and in fact what has alrea t dy happened in some states -would be the evaporation of meaning in prayer. The prayer would be ignored or worse yet misunderstood with no one there to help a student decipher a coherent meaning. 
We ask our teachers to do so much already: counsel, police, heal, and educate. NowJesse Helms wants them to become theologians. I thinkJesse would do better by gettingparents to pray with their children, not teach-

legislation to put organized ers. 
prayer back into the class­Interestingly enough, room. Time would be set these proposals for prayer aside daily for students to appear about every 10 years. medidate or listen to some The Batch Amendment ap­
non-denominational peared in the aftermath of reading. Those misguided the 1962 Engle decision, children uncomfortable and another proposal was with participating could, of again rejected in 1971. Ten course, simply excuse them­years later, jesse Helms is 
selves and wait patiently in fulfilling his historical the hall. obligation. But wait a My first objection is the minute. I thought Jesse, 
same objection the Supreme arch-conservative, wanted Court had some twenty government off the backs of years ago in Engle v. Vitale people. Why is prayer in when it struck down a New school different? 
York state law requiring To be sure, we have teachers to begin each religious symbols school day with a certain 
everywhere in our society, prayer. "The state of New some even a part of our 

York," wrote Justice Black, "has adopted a practice wholly inconsistent with the Establishment Clause" that forbides Congress (and thus the states by the 14th Amendment) from establishing religion. 
In simple terms, religious activity supported and implemented by a governmental body is flatly illegal. When the power, prestige, and flhancial support of the government backs such a relgious exercise, "the in­direct coercive pressure upon religous minorities to conform to the prevailing official approved religion is plain." 
And allowing students to excuse themselves from the prayer, Black added, is a clever, but still illegal disguise ofconstitutionality. 
The court has sustained itself in this position during the last two decades, and I am confident that ifJesse Helms is successful the court will reiterate itself. (Such was the case two years ago when the state of Kentucky tried to post the Ten Commandments on classroom walls; the Court voiced its disapproval.) 
My other objection is founded in a less secular view government such as on coins and in the pledge of al­legiance. But putting religion in our schools goes a bit too far. I don't want to deny any student the chance to share in the religious heritage of the nation, but surely there are better places to do this than the schools. 
Consider for a moment Emil Hofman's insistence on saying the Our Father every time he begins class. The only good this does is to quiet the class down before the lecture. To be sure, Notre Dame is a private school, but while that may negate the legalistic argument, it does not negate the fundamental one. 
Prayer has its time and place. It's an outlet for spirituality and the outlet simply does not exist in the classroom. Prayer is inappropriate for the classroom be­cause prayer is beyond the classroom. Prayer deals with human existence in a way a chemistry lecture cannot. Why must the two be mixed only to dillute them both? 
Sometimes I wonder if the people who value prayer and its meaning the most want prayer in the classroom the least. Jesse Helms is not one of these people. And now, I guess, I can only pray that some otherSenator is. 
...The .Observer 
Design Editor........................... Kay Holland Layout Staff ............................. Tom Sapp Pete White, Reggie & Allen Tj•pesetters .......................... Jirn MacLennan 
Brian Dunn News Editor.............. .. .... Dave Sarphie Copy Ell/lor ... ...................... Kathy Murray Features Layout ................Joe Musumeci Sports Copy Editor. ........... Dave Dziedzic Chris Needles ND Day Editor................... Cindy Coldiron SMC Day Editor .................. Kathy Zuschin Special Photo Layout ........Joe Musumeci Typist ...................................... Monica Gugle Ad/Jesign ............................... Mary Torchia Photographer .......................... Diana Butler Guest Appearances ..... Reggie. Who Else' Domino's anti Godfather's RUN RABBIT 
Nihsac 
Ma Bell Brassil 
The Observer tUSPS 598 9201 IS published Monday through Fnday and on horne football Saturdays except during exam and vac~t1on periods The Observer 1s publiShed by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys Col lege Subscnpt1ons" may be purchased lor $25 per year t$15 per serneslerJ by Writing The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame fnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a rne'llber of The Associated Press All reproduCtion nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at NotrE' Dame fnd1ana 46556 


UNITED WAY STUDENT CAMPAIGN 
Attention All 
Hall Representatives 
e~-t\ie 
tt Mandatory Meeting 


Sept. 21st 

in St •Ed's Hall Lounge 
at 7:30pm 

·-·--------------·-· --------·------·--------~---------------------------------------------·----­
The Observer Monday, September 20~1982-page 3 

Lowturnout 


SMCorganizes College Bo"W"l 
By THERESA HARDY 
.Yews St(lff 
The organizational meeting for the Saint Mary·~ College Bowl. known as "the varsity sport of the mind" will he helcJ tomorrow at 6 
p.m. in the Stuc.Jcnt Affairs Con­ference Room. 
The College Ro\\ I, an annual event, is a program which involves tournament competition on three levels: intramural. regional. ancJ na­tional. Students formulate their own four-member teams and may ask a faculty member to coach them. The teams are asked questions on a variety of topics with a concentra­tion on the liher:~l ;trt~ 
Sponsored hy the Office of Stu­
dent  Activities,  the  College  Bowl  
began  several  years  ago  at  Saint  
Man·'s.  

Li~a Schulte. coordinator of the Bowl for the past three years, is very enthusiastic about this year's program and she anticipates another successful season. Student registration for this year's event, un­fortunately, ha,o; been low. Schulte believes that the lack ofsupport thus far "may he a result ofthe graduation ofmany bowl competitors last year." 
Schulte said that she has dis­covered from past Bowl games that students as well as faculty t1nd the experience both worthwhile and rewarding. She said she likes "to see tne mtxture ot Mu<.knts and faculty" on such a personal level. 

Rules for the College Bowl are relatively simple. The team with the most correct answers after twenty­t1ve minutes of game play wins. The teams will he able to compete regionally after ten intramural games. No previous experience is necessary. 
Intramural competition for the College Bowl will begin Sept. 29. All games will he held in Carroll Hall. Times will he announced. 
All interested students are en­couraged to attend tomorrow's meeting or contact Lisa Schulte for further information. 

I

week's craft awards. ABC followed much but I'll take it." this season. Lloyd won for his role as 
with 18 and CBS with 12. PBS won Nancy Marchand of the canceled Jim on "Taxi," which was dropped 
five Emmys and three awards were "Lou Grant." ap.rl Michael Conrad of by ABC but is being picked up by presented to syndicated shows. NBC.
· Hill Street Bllies," won their second "Barney Miller." the police precinct comedy, was the victor as comedy series, its first win in eight seasons. Nominated six times before, it has been canceled by ABC. 
aRtlo·s IRISh pus
"Marco Polo," the eight-hour epic filmed in China, scored as outstand­ing limited series, and the Radio City Music Hall extravaganza, "Night of I00 Stars," was hailed as outstanding variety musical comedy program. 

The three-hour Emmy show ..ullclctl ~i~llt tu()tlx•ll 
ended on a sentimental note, with 

on aRtlo's nEWWib€SCR€€n tv
Kate Smith appearing on stage while the audience at the Pasadena Civic 

*con€y Ooqs, Ch1l1, anb assoRt€b oth€R 
Auditorium sang the anthem she made famous, "God Bless America." roobs avallaBl€ 
Looking frail but aware, the singer was pushed in a wheelchair onto the stage by Bob Hope. She joined in the singing and wiped a tear from her 


I ()IIi"litt----­
eye at the conclusion of the Irving Berlin song. Mickey Rooney took the best ac­Pitch€Rs $3.00 ~\(1\ "(I J1\ tor Emmy in a limited series or spe­
cial ti>r his role in "Bill" as a real-life BaR h1qhsalls 75¢ -..1 1'-"C IIi I 
retarded man fighting to gain a nor­


Oom€Stl<:: B€€R u 1• il~, I
mal life. 

Alan Aida as Hawkeye Pierce on (cans) 75¢ "M-A-S-H," was named best actor in a comedy series, and Carol Kane won as best actress in a comedy series for her performance as simka in an episoc.Je of"Taxi." 
Michael Learned, as the title 




iiiliiOiiiiGiii.& 
character on "Nurse," ancJ Daniel]. Travanti, the patient captain on "Hill ~TUESDAY, SEPT. 21 Street Blues," won Emmys as best actress and actor in a dramatic series 
ATTHEDOMEOFFIC 
~.Hill Street' wins big 


Bergman wins Emmy for.' Golda' 
Notre Dame President Father Theodore Hesburgh talks with two 
LOS ANGELES (AP)-The late In­others were for her role as Olivia straight Emmys as best supporting facul~l' members at a reception honoring newfaculty members in grid Bergman won an Emmy last Walton in "The Waltons." actress and actor in a drama series the Center for Continuing Education yesterday. (Photo by Diana night for her portrayal of Israeli Travanti had more cause for Sunday night at the 34th Television Butler) Prime Minister Golda Meir, while celebration. It was his second Emmy Academy Awards. 
········································•····························
"Hill Street Blues" took six awards to in a row for "Hill Street," which as­Miss Marchand won for her emerge as the big winner for the cended in the ratings after last year's portr.ayal of the publisher Mrs. second straight year. Emmysweep. Pynchon on the CBS newspaper CogLh\0.g~ailt coe~lgn 
The award to Miss Bergman, a drama that was dropped after last 
18461 Sl Rd. 23 Soulh Bend
three-time Oscar winner who died I don't believe in season. Conrad won for his role as ofcancer Aug. 29, came for her per­the lovable Sgt. Phil. Esterhaus on callfor appoimmen/ 277-1875 formance in the syndicated televi­'good,' 'better,' 'best.' the NBC police show. 
Shampoo, Conrlirion~r. Cut S!vlc
sion movie "A Woman Called Loretta Swit of "M-A-S-H" and Golda." The show was named out-· I believe in magic. Christopher Lloyd of "Taxi" won NDSpecial standing dramatic special. Emmys for best supporting actress 
Guys-$7.00·(reg. 13.00) 
NBC, mired in the No. 3 slot in the "This means more to me than last and _!lctor in a comedy series. ratings, wrapped up the highest total year's," said Travanti. "I don't Miss Swit won for her portrayal of Girls-$10.00 (reg. 18.00) at the 34th Television Academy believe in 'good,' 'better,' 'best.' I Major Margaret Houlihan on the CBS 
L'o-lJL·signt.:rs Only ask for Nita orJeff
Awards with 20, including last believe in magic ... This is almost too show, which is ending its long run .. . 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I • I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I<;. I 
I"TERESTED I"TAK1"6 A CLASS I" BALLROOM DANCING? 
Beginning September Z Z a five week course will be held on Saint Mary·s campos in ihe Regina Holl basement lounge from 6:1 5 pm to 7:.45 pm 
SIGfl UP flOW lfl THE SAifiT MARY'S 
STUDEfiT ACTIVITIES OFFICE phone: 284-4561 Cost is only SZ 5 
for five weeks! This offer is 
. 
'

limited to flo 
•••::'2_,.,,.. 'i ~" 
"-.? ~ :\

Dame and Saint Ma .. ~.,,.... ':l 
students oni --:~ 



oble," 

om~s 
PIZZA 

277-5aoo .~ 

at the 5-tth Television Academy •••••••••••••••••~·~~·~•• Awards. 
(3RDFLOOR 
~ D IZZA DINNER ~ ~ 
It was a hittersweet victory for Miss Learned. her fourth EmIllY. The 
LAFORTUNE) • CF3RTWO • $200 • • With Salad Bar •
cl"5l']'~~~""~!!Y~ ;''.1) Off 1 
~~..~-..;:lia~ (( 
I $699 SAVE OVER~ •


News Dept. 
• uoo • •
'lf~J,~i-~~--~'\Jr!f 
SaveevenmoreonDinnerforFour. • AnyLargeDeep-DishSicman, •• 
14" Monster or 16" or 20" •



workshop 
• $11.99 • HanHossed Round pizza 
ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING 
• • Medium Deep· Dish Sicilian, 12" • • 
• Hand-Tossed Round or 10" Monster • •


to be Tues. 6:30pm 
• pizza (your choice of toppings) • 2 ptzzas may be purchased with • • 2 "Create-Your· Own Salad Bars • each coupon. Cannot be used with any • 
A news department workshop for WRITERS' MEETING • other coupon or discount offer. 
• Drinks not Included. Inside Dining Only. • One coupon per customer per vlsll •
all news editors, copy editors, day 
One coupon per customer per vlsll Cannot • O!!er good through October 3, 1982. •
7:30'pm
editors and reporters is scheduled • be used with any other coupon or discount 
for Tuesday night at 6:50 in the • oller. O!!er good through October 3, 1982. • • 
LaFortune Little Theater. For all those who signed up at Activities • Good at Cleveland Rd. Store • Good at Cleveland Rd. Store· • Across !rom University Park Mall • Acrpss !rom University Park Mall •
Anyone interested in writing for 
the Observer is encouraged to at­Night and any other interested parties--• 277.5300 277 5300 tend. 
. please come! I_.Noble1\_omal{s•I_.Noble1\_om~•=
'IIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIILIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 


The Observer 
·, 
1: 
.: 

A student admires one of the many paintings now being dis­played in the Women Artists: Indiana-New York Connectionexhibit at the Silite Museum. The show contains works by nine artistsfrom each ofthose states. (Photo by Diana Butler) 

~ 12cl~fiillf?~ 
Uettt?l Mon., sept. 20 & Tues., sept. 21 IJiet££'1 Engineering Auditorium 
Tlrnt?l 7:00pm & 9:30pm {__()§tl s 1.00 


SJ>()IIS()lf?cl ()-,: BCAC 

Monday, September 20, 1982 -page 4 
Fiscal year nears 





Congress begins work on budget 
WASHINGTON (AP)-A scant 10 days before the beginning of the new fiscal year, Congress is finally starting to move in earnest toward passage ofthe money bills needed to finance the federal government for the next 12 months. 

But at the same time, recognizing that all I3 bills can't possibly be enacted by the Oct. I dawning ofthe new year, both houses are giving hurry-up treatment to another, catch-all measure that will remain in effect until the regular legislation can be passed. 
That measure is expected to remain in effect only until early or mid-December, since the leadership of both House and Senate have bowed to a call from President Reagan to reconvene after the November elections and resume debate on the regular bills. 
In the House, where all appropria­tions bills originate, only two of the 

1.3 bills have been passed so far-one dealing with the Department of Housing and llrhan Development and related programs and another providing funds for military con­struction. 
Two more bills are scheduled to he debated on the floor ofthe House this week, providing money for transportation and farm programs. 

In the Senate, meanwhile, the housing bill is scheduled for floor debate this week, the first regular money hill to advance that far. 
Still to emerge from either the House or Senate committee are the two biggest measures, providing funds for the Pentagon and the Departments of Health and Human Services and Labor. 
Against this backdrop, the House is also scheduled to debate legisla­tion Wednesday that will finance the government on a stopgap basis 


r. ~ 
' 

beginning Oct. I. 
Tenative plans call for the Senate Appropriations Committee to debate the bill the day after it is ap­proved in the House. 
But officials say it won't reach the Senate floor until Sept. 28 at the eat:­liest -leaving only two additional days for negotiators for the two houses to iron out their differen~es and have a final bill ready for Reagan's signature. 
And, of course, should Congress send Rea t gan a bill on Sept. 30 and should the president veto it, the government would be technically out ofmoney. 
NEW YORK (AP)-In the begin­ning the scribe condensed the books of Daniel, First Samuel and Acts. And the editors of the Reader's Digest saw it and said it was good. Then they said to the scribe, "take six others like you and condense the whole Bible." 
And so it came to pass after seven years, in the second year of the presidency of Ronald Reagan, that their work was done, and on the Sab­bath the scribes reMed while the fruit of their labor was released to the multitudes. 
The Reader's Digest Bible is 40 percent shorter than the 850,000­word Revised Standard Version, and "smoother, more inviting, more readable," according to Jack Walsh, the scribe who began editing the first three books of the new Bible in 1975. 

It is nut possible to quote the streamlined Bible chapter and verse, because it has neither. The 2.3rd Psalm has become the 13th Psalm, because other psalms have disap­peared entirelv. And hundreds of 
continuedfrom page I 

government's domestic opponents who said it was a dangerous exten­sion of Israeli policy into Lebanese conflicts. 
The Foreign Ministry said the mas­sacre proved Israel was correct in taking west Beirut and claimed Is­raeli troops had "prevented l much greater massacre from takingplace." 
ST. JUDE 0 Holy St. Jude, Apostle and Martyr, great in virtue and ridl in miroclft, near Kinsman of Jesu~ Christ, Faithful interceuor of all who inYob Y0411f IJM!cial patronage in time of need, to you I have recourse from the ~of my heart and humbly beg to whoM God hal given IUCh great .--, to came to my assistance. Help me in my present and urgent petition_ In return I pralftOie to mote your ,_known and cawe you to be ii'I'IOited. Soy thNe Our Fathen, tt.r.. Hoil M.afys and Glorias-For .... ~ .,.. hWication rfiUit be fi'OIIIi...._ St. Jude pray far"' and all...,inYote yaur aid. ~-11m ~ has MWer been a-to fail, I hcweahpd ,.,...,... . J.~. 
' 
Money matters aside, the Senate resumes its long debate this week on so-called "social issues." 
"* 
Conservatives led by Jesse Helms, R-N.C. are combatting a liberal-led filibuster against legislation to put prayer in public schools. 
A vote is planned today on efforts to limit debate. That would take 60 votes, and was unlikely to succeed on the first try. Ifso, a second vote is set for Tuesday. 
Efforts continue, meanwhile, to negotiate a way out of the filibuster and allow a face-saving vote for Helms. 

Readers' Digest releases 'more readable' Bible 
minor figures,  such  as  Biztha  the  
eunuch,  have  been  consigned  to  
anonymity.  

"The average reader who sits down to read the St. James or RSV bible never finishes," sai<;l· Walsh, 54. "He'd stop as soon as he hit First Chronicles," whose early chapters catalog names and tribes. 
Although there are abridged Bibles, Reader's Digest says only its editors cut line by line, excising what it describes as "the three r's": repetition, rhetoric and redun­dancy. 
Space also is saved by deleting large blocks of material deemed non-essential or repetitive by the editors and their consultant, the Rev. Bruce Metzger ofthe Princeton Ttieolugical Seminary. But well­known passages, however unwieldy, are left alone and can be located in the Bible's index. 
Some ofthe Bible's 66 books were substantially reduced, such as Ex­odus, Chronicles and Deuteronomy, each of which lost about seven out of every 10 words. 
• • . Israel 
However, contradictiOns ap­
peared in a number of the state­
ments Israeli ufiicials and sources 
issued after the massacre became known Saturday. · 
A prepared statement issued in the name of "military sources" late Saturday said Phalange Party militiamen had broken into the refugee camp Friday night to start the killing. 
But on yesterday a report at­tributed to a senior official that was repeatedly read on Israel radio said Israeli troops permitted the Phalan­gists to enter the camps to search for guerrillas. 
U JAIJ 4~ l_liJ 
Organizational Meeting Today at 6:45pm Lafortune Little Theater 


\\~i<t h) 
All those interested wekome! 
~ fhl t '111 II\.I lllht' 

C{)IIVtliJNIICAilii{)N 0 flriEAifRE 
Presents 
the monday night film series I 
;• •• t:.UOh ~ E.;,r.••.•.............................: :.: -·· .::. ·: .-~ ,. ·..... . ,: :.'.\. ;·:..•:... ; . : 
.••••••. t·' •.• ····..:·· •. .l'•'·!:'.
TONIGHT 

• ~··'•• ' •'' ,•,' i ' •·• :, ''" ol 0.'• ' •' ; '' '' •I ' ·~' ' ' . ' : ' "\i. : ~ . 
~ ...~~-~~ .•..•...........••.•.............•, 
7pm Annenberg Aud., Snite Museum. Admission $2 

.--------~---~-------~~---------­
------------------------------------------~ 
------------------------------------···-----------­The Observer Monday, September 20, 1982 -page 5 


Amtrakaffected 
Striketo halt cofllflluter trains 

WASHINGTON (AP) -Railroad supervisors tried to keep passengers and perishable goods movingyester­day as a strike by 26,000 engineers reduced train traffic to a crawl in much of the nation and threatened service for more than 100,000 com­muters this morning. 
The strike hit most of America's rail freight systems and most passen­ger trains, except in the Northeast. Some railroads pledged business as usual, an industry officials looked to Congress to get things rolling again quickly. 
An Associated Press spot check at scores of railroad offices yesterday found many systems crippled and others struggling to get ready for today, the first business day since the engineers struck yesterday. 
All locomotive passenger trafflc was halted yesterdav until futher notice in gre~ter Chic~go, except for one small carrier of .B.OOO weekday commuters. Chicago, with 120,000 weekday riders, has one of the na­tion's largest commuter systems. 
The line~ that rnn intn "'''"" Ynrk 
City were unaffected because most commuters ride by Conrail, the giant federally subsidized line, or by metropolitan Jines that were not af­fected. 
Conrail was not struck by the uni­on and it was continuing to run its biggest operation -the hauling of freight in the Northeast and eastern Midwest. 
In greater Boston, Boston & Maine railroad said its 44,000 Mon­day morning commuters will be without trains to catch while Amtrak and Conrail said their lines, which normally carry 1S,OOO, will operate. 
Amtrak said the strike would stop the one-third of its passenger trains that operate "south of Washington and west of Chicago." Chessie Sys­tem passenger service from Bal­timore and \'fest Virginia to Washington was closed, as were lines between Pittsburgh and Ver­sailles, Pa. 
The Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers walked out after a 12:01 
a.m. deadline pa..~sed with no con­tract agreement. 
Shah targeted 



Bookreveals Iranian murder plan 
NEW YORK (AP)-Nearly a year before 52 American hostages came home from Iran, an emissary of Ayatollah Khomeini offered to resolve the crisis if the CIA would kill the ailing shah, former White House ChiefofStaff HamiltonJordan says in a new book. 
The former Carter aide says in his political memoir, "Crisis," that he met with the unidentified Iranian in an undisclosed foreign country in Febuary 1980 -about four months after the hostages were taken -after traveling to the rendezvous in a CIA­provided disguise. 
He describes the offer in this passage: "The contact paused and smiled slyly. 'It is easy to resolve the crisis.· 
"'How,' I shot back. 
"'All you have to do is kill the shah,' he said in a quiet voice. "I was shocked. 'You're kidding.' "He stopped smiling. 'I am very 
serious, Mr. Jordan. The shah is in Panama now. I am not talking about anything dramatic. Perhaps the CIA can give him an injection or do something to make it look like a natural death."' 
Jordan says he dismissed the idea as "totally out of the question," hut talks with Khomeini's secret repre­sentative abour ways to end the crisis continued until the failed U.S. rescue mission in April 1980. 
The shah, who had gone to Panama following treatment for can­cer in the Ilnited States, eventu;!.lly 
settled in Egypt, where he died i~ Julv 1980. 
The hostages were released in January 1981, on President Carter's tina! day in office. Jordan also says that ,t was Secretary of State Cyrus Vance -reversing his previous posi­tion -and National Security Adviser Zbigniew Brzezinski who told Car­
eontinued.frompage 1 
been no problem... 
Asenior Israeli official was quoted by Israel radio as saying Israeli forces allowed Phalangist gunmen into the camps, thinking they would drive out PLO guerrillas hiding there. He said the troops used fmce to stop the massacre as soon as they discovered it was going on. 
The report could not he con­tlrmed and it appeared to contradict an earlier official statement that the · Phalangists "broke into" Chatilla. 
Asked why the militiamen were allowed in, Eytan merely said, "We don't give the Phalangists orders and we are not responsible for them." 
But most of the outrage still focused on Israel -at home and abroad. 
Police used tear gas to disperse 500 protesters who gathered· outside Prime Minister Menachem 


Stanford MBA 
REPRESENTATIVE COMING TO CAMPUS FRIDAY, OCTOBER 1 
A representative of the Stanford Graduate School of Business will be on campus to discuss with interested students the exceptional educational opportunity of the Stanford MBA Program. 
Appointments may be made through The Placement Bureau 
The Stanford MBA Program is a two-year general management course of studies designed for men and women who wish to develop management skills to meet the broad responsibilities required in both the private and public sectors today and in the future. 
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS STANFORD UNIVERSITY Stanford, California 94305 

Talks with the American Associa­tion of Railroads recessed early yesterday after 20 hours of con­tinuous talks and no new talks were set. 
Transportation Secretary Drew Lewis and Labor Secretary Raymond Donovan warned Sunday they will go to President Reagan and Congress for emergency legislation to halt the strike unless a settlement is reached by today. 
S.I. smith, general chairman ofthe union's eastern region, said if there is no settlement by today, "we're positive Reagan will ask Congress for the authority to declare an emer­gency and put us hack to work. He'd probably do it today ifhe could, hut I doubt there's enough congressmen in town." 
The industry said the strike hit dozens of regi~mal lines as well as che largest ones: the Burlington Northern, the biggest in che land; the newly merged giant Norfolk South­ern; the far-flung CSX system and its Chessie Syscem; and the Southern Pacific and llnion Pacific. 
Begin's residence in Jerusalem and shouted "Begin murderer." 
The Labor Party opposition and dovish members of Begin'~ ruling coalition called for his resignation. 
The Soviet l"nion accused the l'nited States of instigating what it said was a massacre by Israeli troops and "Haddad cutthroats." It said the 
U.N. Security Council should impose sanctions against Israel "if necessary" and hinted that it also should consider expelling the Is­raelis. 
In an unusually tough statement, President Reagan expressed "outrage and revulsion." He said Is­rael has to shoulder some of the blame because its troops were near the camps when the massacres oc­curred. Reagan demanded the Is­raelis leave west Beirut. 
Emergency Medical Technician Ronald Orso gi1•es mouth-to-mouth resuscitation to a child who was oz•ercome during a 2-a/ann fire in Bos­ton's SouthEnd ear~)' Thursdar. The bor died tater at Boston Cizv Hospital, according to officials. (AP) 
~fl(f [1-Ht£•\...Wf 11-'ft«'S 

C()ltvHIJNIICAilii{)I\J presents the monday night film series II 


.............-.......................... . 
. . 
• September 20 •
! Strangers on a Train .H~:tot A111~ H•tcncoc.'< USA s & w •
ToNI G H T: Ar a~~~~;;;,~l encounter on a tra.r suggest'> an excn3nge ol murders ,n :! •n•s cla~s•c [hriller Raymond C~iVId!r-· wrote !he d•a1ogue lor lhe adapla· • 
• J•or. ol Tht> Palrrc'fl H•gn.:;;m,lh I)Ove• ! 
·····~·································· 
9pm Annenberg Aud., Snite Museum. Admission 
SeniOR poRtRaits xtenbeb unt1l Sept. 28 
S1qn up now ~oR youR 
appointment o~~ the l.afoRtune BallRoom 
. OR call 239-5183 
last chance, Class or 1983! 
... Clean-up 
ter the shah should he allowed to come to the United States for "humanitarian reasons." 
"Later it would he charged that (former Secretary of State Henry) Kissinger and (former Chase Man­thattan Bank Chairman David) Rock­efeller had pressured the president into admitting the shah," Jordan savs. "This was not true." 
-~--------~ --~-.,...-----­
·; 
... 
t' 





~-S H0 wc~~iiiiiiSiiiiiEiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiioniidaiiiy,Siiepiiitemiiibiieriii20iii,
19iii82iiiiipiiageii6iiiiii 



meeting Ciunnet 
r-"v! one memorable occasion, after having cycled (,0 miles with 
'-..Ithe last 20 into a driving rain, I stopped into the small fishing 
village ofRonde. It was about 7 p.m. as I entered a pub, dripping wet. 
seekingdirections. I was almost ready to walk out since the language 
barrier appeared insurmountable when all ofa sudden a hearty 
Dane, named Gunner Benstein, shouted to me from the dark corner 
ofthe bar. Gunner, in his mid-forties, was truly a character out ofa 
Viking fable but his ability to speak a little English was my salvation. 
He was an offshore oil worker who had been stationed all over the 
world and he immediately offered me a place to stay for the night. 
We were joined at his table and. ofcourse, Ididn't understand any of 
Kevin Shottelle 
features 
the conversation but they bought me dinner as well as beers until two o'clock in the morning. At that point, the proprietor kindly asked us to vacate the premises. It was pitch black, raining and Iwas seeing three ofeverything but I had to jump on my bike and follow Gunner home through the winding brick streetsofthe village. Little did Iknow that in three hours we had to get up and retrieve 800 fee.t offish net Gunnerhad strung that afternoon. Sure enough, we were up and out by 6:30a.m. and my vision had improved to seeing only double. We jumped into his 10 foot motor boat and hauled in about 150 flounder and then proceeded back into town. We made numerous stops along the way depositing two or three dozen fish at friend's homes. I couldn't follow much of the conversation but I could see that Gunner was admired by his friends· for escaping the small fishing community and seeing the world, and on the other hand I was treated as a celebrity since I was the first person other than a Dane that many ofthese people had ever seen. Iwas inundated with offeringsofcookies, cake and sandwiches the entire morning. I finally left Ronde at 2 o'clock that afternoon, a little more en­lightened than when I arrived. Only I 8 hours before, I was cold, wet and lonely only to be taken in by a friend in a tiny remote village. I 




THE SECOND CITY
wondered ifI would do the same if a European traveller found his 
way to my door on a dark, rainy night. 
I then sailed from jutland to the island ofSealand utilizing the ex­

tensive ferry system which connects the land masses of Denmark. It was all chuckles, roars and belly Belushi, Bill Murray, Gilda Radner (of which failed to offend the laughing 
The debarkation point was a pencil-thin peninsula called Sealand's laughs when The Second City com­the hit seriesSaturday Night Live, )jim audiences. While many ofthe skits 
End. There w~ only one road and just a few villages and for a 15 mile edy troupe performed at the Century Belushi, Peter Boyle, John Candy, pitted wooing lovers, sexual "Don 
stretchocean could be seen over both the left and right hand sidesof Center last Friday. Billed as a perfor­Valerie, Robert Klein, joan Rivers, Juans," and seductive women charac­
the road. With the wind blowing in my face, the smell ofsalt in the air mance "With a Spoofon Notre Dame Melissa Hart, Avery Shreiber, David ters, the troupe poked fun at many 
and the sounds ofwaves pounding the shore, all of my senses were Football," the nationally-renowned Steinberg, and countless others. sexual hangups and idiosyncrasies with 
stimulated. The rains continued inermittently as I crossed Sealand laughter factory kept nearly 500 people humorous precision. One skit placed a
With few props and even fewer in­and persisted even after I ferrird to Sweden, only 20 minute journey roaring with an endless combination of hibitions, The Second City focused on woman sitting next to a man who lit a from Sealand's eastern coast. Because of the adverse conditions, I satirical and utterly hilarious routine.~. collegiate humor and the many startling cigarette. The woman coldly 
remained in Sweden for only two days but I did spend one night in a aspects ofhuman sexuality. The first act declared,"Smoking is bad for your 
dry place when a farmer and his wife invited me to their home for the C.tegoty Swletcz health, and also for mine." The man
opened with a nerd-like student, named 
night. I returned to Denmark via a southern ferry route to the city of Cecil, sitting in his imaginary dorm retorted with funny maliciousness, 
Copenhagen where I was finally greeted with a blue s"y and sun­room, playing a mythical video game. commenting on her infringement on 
shine. I met the first Americans I had seen in two weeks -two girls Clad in a skinny bow-tie and hideous his rights as well. She put on aseductive 
from San Francisco who were also cycling. We spent two days to­comedy review plaid slacks, Cecil's friends rib him end­act, and succeeded in getting the man 
gether taking in the site ofthe city but since the weather was good I The six-member touring group, lessly, about everything from not to extinguish his cigarette, only to rep­
thought it best to return to Germany as soon as possible. I covered consisting ofjane Morris, Jeff Michals, meeting women to not having a zipper ly,"You really shouldn't smoke. It cuts 
the last 200 miles in three days including my first 100 plus mile day Bill Applebaum, jim Fay, Bill Wronski in his slacks. When the friends give off the oxygen to your brain and that 
on a bike. I crossed the islands ofSealand and Funen and ferried to and Bekka Eaton, upheld the flawless Cecil a new Video game called "I Am makes men gullible." 
Jutland eventually cycling to the German border town ofFlensburg. reputation The Second City has main­Woman," the actors all get shOl down College and Notre Dame football 
During the final day ofcycling in Denmark, I met two high school tained since their inception. judging by when playing the game, except Cecil. couldn't escape the wit ofthe skits. One 
students who were also riding from Copenhagen and they lived in their performance, these six talented The "computer woman" grows fond of commercial skit had the Notre Dame 
the town to which I was heading that night so I accompanied them individuals will undoubtedly make it in Cecil, but tells him to "get a zipper for quarterback endorsing Harlequin 
for the final l 5 miles. I had planned to stay at a youth hostel but an of­The Second City "Honor Roll" ofcom­those pants." Romance Novels, stating the ease in 
fer was extended for dinner and then to spend the night. It was a nice edians, which includes such comedy Much of the humor The Second City carrying it in his helmet and the relax­
way to end the Danish tour. greats as Dan Aykroyd, the late john used contained sexual connotations, ing and intriguing effects the novels 
I had spent two weeks in Scandinavia, some ofit in unpleasant 
weather, but I found all the people helpful and friendly and ready to 
go out oftheir way to make you welcome. I was in good cyclingcon­
dition now, ready for the heart ofthe trip-the Bavarian, Austrian 
and Swiss Alps. 

In the beginning, the 
This is the second ofa series ofexcerptsfrom Kevin Sbortelle's journalofhis cycling tourthrough Europe this summer. Watchfor more in this space next week. 

f there were ever a movie title room/recreation center passed light!" So I reached over, flipped the
Ito describe the people who really before my roommate's eyes; all I saw switch, and there was light. Greg's 
get involved in fixing up their new were dollar signs floating out ofour eyes were far off, in another world 
dorm rooms, it would have to be wallets. I will call my roommate filled with the pleasures ofinterior 
"Dr. jekyll and Mr. Hyde." For some "Greg," which is his real name decorating. "Marc," he said, "we did 
people, the process becomes a mat­anyway. a pretty good job ofpainting this 
ter ofslow deterioration from sanity Last Monday was fine until! en­room." Then he rolled over and 
to madness; for others, it is an over­tered the room after dinner and went to sleep. 
night transformation. It is not an noticed Greg nervously pacing the I took a close survey of the room 
enjoyable event to watch. floor. "You know, Marc," he said, and saw that it was good. The third 
"this room is just too hig, and too day. 

marc Ramirez nice, for us not to do somethingwith I woke up Thursday to the sound 
it." I looked around and Isaw that he ofGreg's bare feet shuffling back 
was right. The first day. forth across the floor. His hands 
were clasped behind his back, and I 
features 

On Tuesday we painted our room. somehow knew what he was going My dormmates were 4>nce normal The color puke green that to say next. "We need a carpet in human beings, nearly all in their heretofore had blanketed our walls here," he said. "I've been up since was now covered hy a color that was four thinking about it."
right minds and almost perfectly 
capable offacing the terrors of Mec­only slightly more interesting, I agreed that a carpet was a good Navajo white. But (;reg was not idea for most rooms, and that day I 

hanics and An Introduction to Statis­nearly satisfied. No -there had to scouted the dorm for extra shags,
tics. But then ideas began popping he more. As I fell asleep that night I plushes, and tweeds. As I made my

into their minds, and they thought, 

heard him mumbling to himselfend­way through the jungle ofstray
"Hey! Let's fix up our rooms! Like, lessly. The second day. desks, boxes, and mattresses that
really nice, you know? Lofts and bars Wednesday night marked the cul­cluttered the hallways, I steppedand wall-to-wall carpets!" 

mination of a relatively quiet day over manv a rolled carpet, hut Visions ofa combination party until Greg woke up at the stroke of inquiry found that they were not room/socialloungdstudy mid "Let there be sale. 


worker Gus Gianetti. Sex education was discussed, with absolutely hilarious results. Innuendos flew about freely and all aspects ofsex education were spoofed. Difficulties arise when trying to summarize the humor ofThe Second City. From their humble begin­nings in a now defunct Chinese laundry on Dec. 16, 1959 in Chicago, the improvisational-satirical comedic in­stitution has evolved into a finely polished art form. Their comedy routines and well-planned perfor­
mances manifest themselves every time 
the handful ofactors take a stage. Thdr syndicated television seriesSCTV, Saturday Night Live, and their touring companies prove to the world that their style ofcomedy deserves the respect that television producers and stage directors shower them with. 
And if laughter truly is the best medicine, thanks to The Second City. I'll he healthy for quite some time. 
On Sunday we rested. When I · woke up, Greg was still asleep, and I was sure that my idea had worked. I grinned, then did Accounting homework until three. That's when Greg sprang out ofbed, wondering where our long desk and daybed had gone, and finally where all his hair had gone. "I gotta admit, though," he said, "this is a nice room. And I want that loft for next year. Let's freeze this room." The idea of keeping the same room, hut having to take the loft down anyway even though it would he up the next year again, prompted me to post a sign on the. wall. It read. "And in the end the loft you take is equal to the loft you make." 
Ifthere was any example Greg had ~et for the new freshmen, it was not to get so involved in fixing up a room that everything else becomes meaningless." Iguess Idid get a little carried away," s-aid Greg. "But wait until next year! Two lofts' And then we'll put a bathtub over ther'e, and. 
Monday, September 20, 1982 -page 7 
Travels with Patty 
T 
he big difference between normal football games and Notre 
Dame football games is their length. 
Normal games last three or four hours. 
A Notre Dame game lasts a couple ofdays. 

Alumni come on Friday night with their multi-million dollar Win­nebagos complete with every liquor known to civilization and a s 17.95 miniature Weber charcoal grill to cook up hot dogs and ham­burgers. 
Saturday. they wake up before I go to sleep and start cooking steaks to feed their dogs while 1go to the dining hall to eat what God probably intended for the dogs. 
Ed Konrady 
features 
But this weekend I knew it was going to be ditl'erent. 

This was going to be the first game of the season. The first night game in history. The first chance to get revenge from last year's debacle in Michigan. The first chance to prove that Bo could lose to a "high school coach." 
This was going to be the weekend that the students had a better time than the alumni. 
To achieve this goal, to reach the pinnacle ofparty, we needed the King ofthe Commons, my personal favorite literary device ....Party Dave!!! 
Not one to relinquish the party title without a fight, our illustrious Partymaster went right to work. On Festive Friday, at 1 p.m., the weekend started. 
Acase ofMichelob was opened and liquor was consumed. Unfor­tunately a hitch developed as it was quickly pointed out to Party Dave that he had one more class before the weekend. 
Never one to neglect his academic duty, P.O. rushed offto his 2:20 class. However, a natural reaction to drinking a large amount ofbeer developed. But our Partyman showed his tremendous amount of self-control and squirmed through the class. 
Running out of the building, our man Party took care of his little problem and returned to his room to finish the case of Michelob. Next was a high-class Happy Hour in Hondo's room, which made Party Dave very happy until about 9 p.m. 
Then it was off to the Notre Dame apartments, where our beer­guzzling baron somehow ripped his pants on an air conditioner and took care ofanother natural reaction on a balcony. People who sleep on Notre Dame Apartment balconies should take note. 
At 2:30a.m. the party started mellowing, so it was off to Shirley's. The Partyman had his usual, the Trucker's Special and Chili. Need­less to say, Partyman sat in the back seat on the way back home. 
At 3:30 a.m. Partyman passed out in the Partychair. 

Super Saturday started at 11:10 when Partyman woke up refreshed with the breakfast ofex-champions. To the Logan Center basketball game he went, working as an ACC usher, where Moose Kraus' team won. 
To celebrate Moose's_come-from-behind effort, Partyman drank a bottle ofSouthern Comfort and had dinner. At 5::~0 it was off to St. Ed's, where he drank all ofa friend's Micheloh and refused to part of holding a "Wolverines Eat Quiche" sign. 
The Grace Hall tailgater was next, with it's Pabst Blue Ribbon. Party Dave made many more friends as he tried to take care of him­self behind a van as the van pulled away. 
Quickly running to the bushes, David did his duty as many ad­
mirers passed by. This is where Icaught up to the Partymonster, and 
we ran into the stadium, screaming vile things about Michigan. 
At halftime Party Dave took a "Pass Out Check" (very ap­
propriate) and went back to the Grace Hall Tailgater to finish what 
beer was left, not to mention the Pabst Blue Ribbon. 
After we lost our voices screaming in victorious salute for our 
team, it was offto the Partyroom as a number ofus drank Dits' cham­
pagne and watched the Partyman finish a bottle of Riunite wine. 
Then it was back downstairs to the Grace Pit to watch Notre Dame 
kick Michigan's tail again. 
And so, this weekend, two great myths bit the dust. 
Bo lost to a "high school coach." 
Students had more fun than alumni. 
Thank you, Party Dave, for a job well done. 

Author's Note to Dave's mom: This is just a pack oflies. Dave spent Friday and Saturday in the library' studying. He came out to see the game and then went right to sleep. He is a very, very• good boy. 
•I 
il ' 
! 

... i '\\·.·: 
,; 
' 
I 
;I 
..,
.; 
·;. I 
-. •i 
-j 
j 

..1 .. -' 
-l 

,. 
spectator, flanked by a choirsinging the Halleluja Chorus, got the crowd roaring. For every comment the spec­tator made, the choir would improvise, fitting words to the music. 
Jim Fay performed a monologue where he explained who The Second City was, where they came from, and summarized the apparent "loser" status most ofthe sports teams in Chicago possess. While he recognized The Chicago Sting for winning the North American Soccer League, he in­troduced a skit on the University of Chicago football team, a team that used to be a college powerhouse in the days ofAmos Alonso Stagg. U. ofC. dropped its football team in the early 1960's. 
The skit poked fun at intellectuals who, at the University ofChicago, were to try to start up the football team once again. The coach tried in vain to get a mathematical whiz to'say yard line in­stead ofyard line segment, tried to get a squeamish brain to but his hands under the center, an•! generally to "educate" the intellects on foot· .all protocol. The results delighted the crowd. 
Satire also can have teeth, as some skits bit into such issues as a nuclear blast, the U.S. Supreme Court, and a funeral scene. One skit concerned the only two surviving people ofa nuclear blast. The man had taken a quaalude, while the woman was in the bathroom at the time ofthe explosion. Another skit put the U.S. Supreme CourtJustices in a chorus line, singing of their various landmark decisions. The most ir­reverent act had a wake scene where the deceased had died from sucking his head into a one-gallon pork and beans jar. 
Perhaps the funniest skit came when the cast donned costumes, worked their way into unoccupied seats in the audience, and staged a mock P.T.A. meeting. All stereotypesofpeople were represented: Mr. Levine, the eloquent boob; a homosexual-but-tough football coach; a crotchety old bag named Mrs. 



~ were two-by-fours ... 
Greg, however, had been lucky. According to what small informa­tion I could get out of him, he had entered a North Quad girls' dorm and had claimed the first rug that he saw. The owners of the rug had ap­parently been shaken by his strange manner and had sold him the rug for a dollar and fifty cents. I was becom­ing wary as well. Greg's eyes looked like windows to a mad world some­wh~re in inner space. He reminded me ofJack Nicholson in "The Shining." only Jack Nicholson was acting. I let Greg put the rug down himself. The fourth day. 
Friday was trading day. Greg's vi­cious aggressiveness led to two major trades that day. In one, we traded one long desk for two short ones and a cabinet shelfto he named later. In the other. we acquired a single hunk for a daybed straight up. Greg, with the appearance of a man who had not slept in a few days. brought in a nice yellow­upholstered chair. explaining it off simply as a free agent. 
I stayed as far as possible from 
Greg, yet tried to remain on his good side. "This room looks pretty good," I commented. Greg scanned it and said, "It is good." The fifth day. 
Saturday morning Greg woke me up and shouted, "Let us go out and purchase massive amounts of lum­ber, and let us bring it here! Let us cut and saw it as necessary and let us build a loft!" The voice was not Greg's, hut the authority in the voice was unmistakeahle. 
"When was the last time you had some sleep?" I asked him. He didn't answer. 
By the end of the day we had our loft built to accommo<tlte springs as well as a mattress. I wondered if many people around the dorm had become as preoccupied with fixing up their rooms as (;reg had. I could see the fatigue all over Greg's face, and I took an opportunity to slip a couple ofsleeping pills into his open can ofSterling beer. ~·hen he was finally asleep, I scissored off large clippings of his hair. "I hope thb is good," I said. The sixth day. 



--·--·-·-···-----------------------·­
The Observer Monday, September 20, 1982 -page 8 
I 

t 
I . 


~~()f1tS~tl~~~~i~e~~~~S~======~====================M=o=n=da=y=,s=ep=t=em=b=e=r=2o=,=I9=8=2===pa=g==e9 
II\· I be ( JIJ.,·cn•••r and I be As.w•daletl Pres.~ 

The deadline for signups for entry in the interhall cross­country meet for men and women is tomorrow. You may register by calling the NVA office at 239-6100 -The Observer 
ND Hang Gliding Club Is being organized. Call Ted Toerne at 287-7717 for information. -The Observer 
Fellowship ofChristian Athletes will hold 
their next meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in the St. Ed's lounge. All are invited to attend. -The Observer 
The ND Irish Flyers Club is being revived. 
Anyone interested is call 277-6726 for information. -The Observer 
Irish cross country team opened its season Friday with a resounding I 5-50 victory over Ohio State on Burke Memorial GolfCourse. Tim Cannon, Andy Dillon and Marc Wozniak all crossed the finish line together with a time of 25:56 for the five-mile course. Irish runners Ralph Caron and Tim Bartrand followed with times of 
25:21 and 25:26. By claiming the top five positions, Notre Dame held Ohio State's score to the minimum possible 15 points.Notre Dame ended up with eight of the top ten finishers. Notre Dame will host the National Catholic Invitational this Friday. -The Observer 
ND women's tennis team plays a crucial match 
tomorrow against Southern Illinois University-Edwardsville. The Irish must defeat SIE if they hope to be invited to the NIAW Division II tournament at the end ofthe year. Notre Dame tinished second to SIE in last year's regional play, hur t;ever has faceu them in a dual match. The match begins at 3:30 on the Courtney Tenni~ · ourts. ­
The Observer 
out because of the weather con-di­
continuedfrom page 12
tions," said Irish coach Rich Hunter. 
"I think we were a much better team 
players offered various jerseys,than Ohio State was and I think they autographed basketballs and warm­realized that fact. In the first half the up jackets to the fans. A Kellyweather helped them but it got so Tripucka game jersey sold for S800bad that a second halfcomeback was while some autographed balls soldimpossible." 
for over s.~OO. 
Jim Pickar and Tom Costello each "It was touching and spirited,"picked up goals in the first half of added Shumate. now an assistant play as the visitors jumped out to a coach for the Irish. "In the locker3-0 lead. Costello's goal was the real room, there were players I hadkiller, however, as it put Notre Dame never met like Rich Branning andin a tough 2-0 hole they would never Bruce Flowers, but it was like weclimb out of. 
were brothers." 
The goal, a penalty kick that found "It's a great feeling to come back the top corner ofthe goal, was an in­
and see the people here." said direct result ofsome shabby passing 
Adrian Dantley, a perennial NBA All­
by the Irish. Both the weather and 
Star forward with the l 'tah Jazz. 
lady luck were against Notre Dame. 
Dantley led all scorers in the gameThe hosts came out for the second 
with 21 points for the white squadhalf with the unenviable task of while New York Knick Toby Knighthaving to score three goals on a 
chipped in with I H points and I 5 playing field that resembled St. Joe's 
rebounds for the losers. Chicago lake. The elements seemed to take 
Bulls' forward Orlando Woolridge their toll as the second half was a 
led the blue squad with I H points. stalemate with Ohio State hanging 
"We like playing, we like people, on for dear life. 
and we like meeting people." said 
But then Notre Dame freshman the Irish Colt, Dave Hatton, who will Tom Daley got his team on the board trY out with the NHA Washington with 12: I H to play when he sent a B~llets this fall. "That's what makes 
rocket offthe hands ofa beleaguered this college different from other col­Buckeye goaltender. The Irish could leges. Notre Dame is like home." 
Friday soccer ~.. 
Irish fall to Ohio State, 3-1 
ByALGNOZA see the fuzzy outline_ of a tie bal­Sports Writer lgame and they went after it like a Notre Dame alumnus goes after the 
The Ohio State soccer program bookstore. shook a monkey off its back this past Ohio State held on, though, and Friday night as the Buckeyes beat handed the Irish their second defeat host Notre Dame, 3·1, for their first ofthe season and their first on home win over the Irish in four attempts. turf. When the final horn ended the con­While the Notre Dame players test, ecstatic Ohio State players may have gone away beaten, it was the Buckeye boys that went away bruised. This four-year series never had been a love affair but the brutality of Friday night's game was something else. Usually it was the men in scarlet that got the worst of it, but by night's end, all their hurt had gone away. 
embraced each other and danced their way to the locker room. Not everyone at Cartier Field was impressed, however. 
.Logan
"I think you can throw that game 


Saturday's Result 
Notre Dame Blue 1 05, Notre Dame White 
102 

Notre Dame White (1 02) 
M FG·A FT-A R F p 
Gary Brokaw 18 1-6 1-1 1 4 3 
Aust1n Carr 19 3-10 3-3 3 0 9 
StdCatlett 16 1-3 0-0 1 0 2 
Dwight Clay 22 4-14 2·2 4 2 10 
Ad nan 

Dantley 32 9·13 3-4 7 2 21 
Bruce Flowers 26 8-11 0-0 8 1 16 
Toby Kntght 25 8-14 2·2 13 2 18 
Btll Paterno 18 4-12 0-0 8 0 8 
John Shun ate 24 6-11 3·4 5 2 15 
200 44-94 14-16 50 13102 
FG Pet -468 FT Pet · 875 Team 
rebounds -2 Turnovers -18 Asststs -18 
(Dantley 7. Clay 4) Techn.cals ·None. 
Notre Dame Blue (105) 
M FG·A FT-A R F p Dave Batton 23 7-12 0-0 8 0 14 Rtch Branntng 22 4-9 2-2 1 2 10 Btll Hanzltk 29 4-13 0-0 8 3 8 Tracy Jack­son 23 5-12 3-4 7 2 13 Btll Latmbeer 18 4-7 1-1 11 2 9 Gtl Salinas 16 2·6 0-0 3 3 4 Kelly Tnpucka 23 6-13 2-2 5 4 14 Duck Wtlltams 18 7-17 1-1 3 0 15 Orlando Woolnd 28 6-10 6-6 2 0 18 
200 45-99 15-16 48 16105 
FG Pet 455 FT Pet 938. Team rebounds -2 Turnovers -20 Asststs -13 (Tnpucka 3) Techntcals ·None 
Hallttme -Whtte 50. Blue 45. OHtctals ­Dave Towner and J1m Rembold .. A· 9.000 (est 
The Observer wtll accepl classtfteds Mon­day through Fnday. 10 a.m. to 4 30 p m. However. classtfteds to appear 111 the next 1ssue must be recetved by 3 p.m. the b.us1ness day pnor to 1nsertton All classtfteds must be prepaid. 
etther tn person or through the mat!

Classifieds 
~-NO_T_IC_Es~J 
IS YOUR HAIR GETTING IN THE WAY OF YOUR STUDIES?? CALL MICHOLE FOR A HAIRCUT TODAY' ONLY $4 FOR GUYS AND $6 FOR GIRLS BEST TO CALL AFTER 3 AT 7850 
PORTRAITS-Drawn or Patnled from life Ask for Dale Mainer at the 
WORD PROCESSING SYSTEM $2995 64K Mtcrocomputer.letter quahty pnnter. word processtng software. CP/M. Baste Call 277 · 7720 
CAR PROBLEMS?? I AM A QUALIFIED MECHANIC WITH LOTS OF EX· PERIENCE AND LOWER RATES THAN ANY GARAGE!! CALL TODAY FOR A FREE ESTIMATE JOHN AT 1852 
The OBUD 24-hour phone line tS now open Call 239-0BUD Wtlh your campus complatnts 
LEARN FLYING FOR $450 CALL 277­6726 
$50 REWARD for return. tn good condt· tK>n. of my blue. 12-speed FUJt btke. stolen 
from Ftsher Hall Call Mike at 3070 
LOST/FOUND 
FOUND A KEYCHAfN CONTAINING THREE KEYS CONTAINS GOLD MEDAL CALL TOM AT 1167 
~~_W_A_N_TE_D~ 
NEED RIDE To North NJ Any Weekend KE:N 8605 
Willing to sacnftce VIRGINITY/fT1oney (tn that order) for 2 PURDUE ltK BE· CKY/CHAIS 8708·07 
WILL TRADE 2 PURDUE GA S FOR 2 MIAMI GAS CALL KEVIN 1629 
Wanted: 2 Purdue Ttckels Call M ltke at 234-3224 
WANTED. Energettc. eager people for general offtce asststance. Saturdays. 1·5. 5·9. and Sundays 9-1. J ·5. starttng Sept 25 $3.50 per hour--ptck your own StJtft Close to campus but must have own transportation Call 277-5448 and ask tor D1ane 
BABYSITTERS wanted occasiOnally for professors two children. Near campus Call 288-6428 evemngs 
DESPERATE! WILU3tVE UP MY FIRST BORN SON FOR 2 MIAMI GAS CALL DENNIS: 3383 
Rehab'e babySitter Wanted tor tw1ns. 18mo oid. o"ce a week for 4 hours Call e•emngs 232·5522 
Gotng to THE WHO concert m INDY Sept 29? I need a nde and w1ll help m eK· penses Call 435 7 as soon as posstble 
WANTED Responstble. hard-work"'g person for approxnnaely 10 hrs a week outdoor mamtenertce 'Must have transportatiOn Good $ Call I ·936·8507 evemngs 
Gotng to THE WHO concert tn INDY Sept 29? I need a nde and wtll help tn ex-

FOR RENT 
I penses Call4357assoonasposstble

"--------I FOR SALE 
FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED for Notre Dame Ave Apts A•allable BROKE STUDENT NEEDS CASH 111 A tmmed•ately-lease thru X-mas at PAIR OF t 2 by 24 tnch PIONEER BAR $90/monlh CaiiK1813 SPEAKERS WIT>' tOO WATT 
CAPACITY. $400 00 NEW FIRST 

ROOMATE WANTE:D-To help share 2· $150 t 00 CAN TAKE HOME THESI: bedroom turntshed apartment Located m SPEAKERS CALL 277·4043 Turtle Creek Apts .1 0 mtn walk from campus Call anytime at 277· 8596 Or 283· 77 RABBIT CLEAN XCLNT COND 277­4263 
6726 WORD PROCESSING SYSTEM. $2995 64K M1crC\computer. letter quality pnnter. word processtng software. CP/M. Baste Call 277 · 7720 

TICKETS 
I NEED 4 GA PURDUE TIX BIG $$$ CALL 1364 
Need Purdue GAs 289· 7640 
I need 2 Purdue GA's. PLEASE till Call John Higgins at 287-4186 (nights) or 239-5323 and LEAVE A MESSAGEtl 
wiiN.riio''i.iE.sP·E;.;·,;:-rE·L.:;;::·;·:p·uFii.iuii 
STUD OR GA PLEASE CALL WILL 282· 1026 
NEED 2 PURDUE GA 'WILL PAY BIG BUCKS CALL KEVIN AT 1996 
PLEASE HELP'!! I NEED 1 PURDUE GA $$$$CAlL MARK 8332 
Help celebrate Dads 55th btrthday: desperately need 4 student and/or GAs lor the Mtamt game Wtll buy tn patrs Call Jtm ·.1152 555 
Need PURDUE GAs or Student tickets $$$ Catl287-3538after6 
NEED 2 gas for PURDUE GAME--CALL SHOWER BAUER 284·5201 
Trade Purdue·Anzona student hx cash for any Mram• t1x or Anzona GAs call Mrke or Scott 1160 
I M A DEAD MAN tf I don I come up wtlh 3 MIAMI GAs and/or 4 ARIZ GAs Help sa•e my •ery •aluable ($$$$) neck' call PHIL at 6295. e•en If you only have 1 or 2 
NEED TWO tOR MORE! PURDUE TIX Grandparents nave never seen N 0 game before Call John Dolan at 3137 
need 2 GAs for ARIZONA game call Lauren lsmct5072 
HELPHt 1need 1 or 2 GA. or Stu Ttl{ s to Mtamt Money talks My wallet IS shOut· tng Charlte x1 027 
Need Purdue Student and GAs · Ph1i 1764 
I NEED 1 PURDUE TICKET G A OR STUDENT CALL DICK AT 8712 
DESPERATELY NEED GA TIXS FOR PURDUE PETE 232·1466 
HELP! Dads a Purdue Alumm. Stster sa Purdue Freshman Need 1 Student and 2 G A ticketS for the game Call Montca at 2184 
NEED TWO OR MORE ARIZONA TICK· ETS!!'!! PLEASE CALL MICHELE AT 37931F YOU CAN HELP 
Need 2 GA IlK to PENN ST Call LIZ 284· 5166 
NEEDED 211ckets for Purdue game Call Rtch at K3210 or x3213 
FOR SALE PURDUE.MIAMI.PENN TIX 239-7139 
NEED 2 PENN ST GAS WILL PAY$$$$ CALL RICH x4662 
W11l trade two M1am1 GAs tor two Anzona GAs Andy 8692/8697 
MiAMI TIX AND HOTEL ROOMS AVAIL CALL LARRY 277 ·3306 
NEEDED. 2 GAS FOR MIAMI CALL BRIAN· 2187 
Young. ambntous mak! needs a DATE 

But if you've SMn him, you know that he has a bener shot at foolball tickets 
Need 2 or 4 student or GAs to Purdue or Mtam1 CALL DAVE AT 6939 
4 PURDUE GAS TO THE BEST OFFER CALL CHRIS 291·2680 
LIKE FINE WINES? SAILORS? GET YOUR CHOICE OF EITHER Chteago Chnsltan Brothers and U S Na•y person­
nel nee_d as many ttx as poss1ble for M1am• or Anzona Call John at I 580 
HELP' PARENTS COMING ALL THE WAY FROM LITTLE FALLS NEW YORK YES I SAID LITTLE FALLS IF I DONT FINO 1 GA FOR THE MIAMI GAME. THEIR TRIP WILL 
HOOSIER tam•'Y wtll BORE me to death tf I dOR I get Purdue tnc: r1eed 3 student. 2 G A Dan 1485 
Help Grandparents cheer lnsh! I need 4 Purdue GAs All together or any 2 patrs Enc 3663 
I NEED 2 MIAMI GAS CALL CATHY AT 6833 
HAVE 2 PURDUE GAS. BUT NEED 2 PENNSTATEGAS CALLPATATI068 
I need same PUR DUES BAAADII Stu· dent or GA Good Bucks Chtp 289·8 I I 3 
Mtchtgan State ltK NEEDED NEEDED NEEDED Call Dave 3501 
PERSONALS 
she was a beaut, Paul -our sink will al­ways remember her 
PKP-BJG 
MOLARITY: NO OUTLET Almost tunny 
Marned? Engaged? Searchtng for a safe. heallhy. effecttve and morally acceptable means of planmng pregnanclf!s? Call 237·7401 to regtster for Natural Fammtly Planmng class starttng Wed Sept 22 on 
campus 
TONIGHT BOSTON CLUB MEETING 
7:30 LaFortune ELECTIONS to be held 
BOSTON CLUB ELECTION MEETING ts TONIGHT 
MARYS · Cute Thts 15 true 
Hey T oodles · mce note' Sorrv I mtssed 
you at the party And how come you re rarely at nome when I call? Ah well 
OMBUDSMEN PHONES ARE NOW OPEN FOR INFORMATION AND COM· PLAINTS Call between 12 and 5 Monday thru Friday for tnfo Call 24 hOurs for campus complatnts Phone: 239·0BUD 
The L · 5 Soc tel y Will hOld tiS ltrSI meehng and program on Tuesday Sept 21 "' LaFortune Ltttle Theater at 7:30 pm Come and fmd out why we numans need to colomze and 1ndustnahze SPACE and how tl can be dOne NOW' Be There DEAR CAKE-EATER. 
Do you remember 
·the nde 10 Tinkers toy? 

-always d1stract1ng ME at the hbrary? 
·mistletoe. candycanes. stock1ngs? 
·You scratch my back ? 
Feb 28. Sam? 

·the booze cru1se thai almost wasn t? 
HAPPY GOLDEN B·DAY!!! 
Love and Laughter. 
Someone from a real town! 
The Freshmen in JF Keenan have NO SECTION SPIRIT, and are a bunch of losers!! Girls, give these boys up and visit their older friends down the hall. You frosh better get # together before next sunday's football game!! 
SHAKESPEAREANS UNITE Shakespeare Club Meeting Monday at 7:00PM at the Wilson Commons Room of 0 Hara Grace Graduate Townhouses (on Bulla Road) Elizabethan entertainment and refreshments prov1dedl New mem· bers welcome! 
HELP! MY DAD IS VISITING NEXT WEEKEND AND I QESPERATEL Y NEED 1 GA FOR THE PURDUE GAME CALL ANNE A l K4321 
STUDENTS' Earn $1.000: $2,000. $3.000! And travel tree Do you want to make more money this year? Are you wrl­hng to spend 1·2 hOurs pe1 day lor 12 weeks? Would you ltke to travel free? H you answered yes to all 3 of these ques· tiOf'IS. become our campus rep Promote our low cost tours on campus wrth our easy-to-use promotiOfl krt Call or wnta today for more tntormatK>n · Travel As· soctates. Sutte 3470. 777East Wtsconstn Avenue. Mtlwaukee. Wtsconsm 53202 (800) 558·3002 
MISTER MILKA' (Du.Herr Benedict!) Alles besten zum Geburtstag! •on Frau Baum 
ERIN· You Crazy Canadian' Happy 18. eh?818. 727 
Karla PaiOr· You were really a great dan· cer (among other thmgs) Are we gonna tear up me iloO< agatn Fnday ntte' Hope so! 
see you soon­
Jtm 
·' 

The Observer ~ports Special -Irish 23, Michigan 17 Monday, September 20, 1982 page 10 
1':~ Confident,butnotoverconfident 
'Unsungheroes ' 

FaustpraisesJohnston, lines ,fans 
By DAPHNE BAILLE sidelines Saturday night to en­

.\ports Writer 
Saturday night, Notre Dame gave Gerry faust just what he's wanted all along -a total team effort resulting in a victory. Several unsung heroes emerged as Notre Dame blocked, battled and bruised its way to a season-opening 2~-1-, win. 
Kicker Mike Johnston wa~ practi­cally unheard of before the game::, but his three tield goals -including a 41-yarder -brought him quickly out ofobscurity. few had ever heard of Harry Oliver either, until he booted a 51 yarder against the Wol· verines in 19HO. Oliver was on the 


Irish safety Dave Duerson triumphant~}' dis­win. Teammate Mark Zauagnin joins in the plays the ball be intercepted to stall Michigan's celebration, while Micbigan 's V{ncent Bean looks 
'· 
last-ditch drive in Saturday night's 23-17 Irish on in disbelief (Photo by Rachel Blount) 
courage his successor. 
"I was very nervous," admitted 
Johnston, "but Harry was on the 
sidelines and helped me relax. I 
learned a lot from kicking behind 
him." 

The first kick set the stage. "It felt good when I kicked it," said johnston, "and then I looked up and it felt great. You know it's a good kick before it goes through -you can just tell by the way you make contact." 
In high school, Johnston worked with current Detroit Lion kicker Bob Thomas to improve his kicking. He earned a scholarship this year and practiced this summer, resulting in his considerable improvement over last spring. 
The men in thetrenches were also 
a crucial part of Saturday's contest. 
Hoth sides of the line took a lot of 
tlack last year, and they were 
determined to show their ability 
Saturday night. 
The Irish defensive line 
dominated Michigan's front line, and 
relentlessly pounced on Wolverine 
quar~erback Steve Smith. 

Notre Dame's olknsive line ­Larry Williams. Tom Thayer, Mark l'ischer, Randy Ellis and Mike Kelley -provided [audible protection tiJr the Irish backs. Quarterback Blair Kid, who enjoyed an outstanding performance himself, was grateful for his teammates up front. 
"I can't say enough about our of~ fensive line," said Kiel. "I had all the time:: in the world. We have a real good relationship. They know what I can do and they take care of me. 
Fullback Larry Moriarty amassed a career·high 1'16 yards rushing, becoming the:: first Not.re Dame ful­lback to gain I00 or more yards since Jerome Heavens did it against :'1/avy in 19'8. The senior was quick to give credit to his offensive line. 
"We had to establish confidence early in the game, so the offensive line just started smashing," said Moriarty. "They took a lot of abuse last year, and the coaches have really worked them hard. 
"This is my best win at Notre Dame," said Faust after the victory. ''I'm really happy for the football players, the alumni, and the student body... and I want to thank all the students because they were just great." 
The way Notre Dame played Saturday night, Irish fans were feeling pretty great, too. 
Michigan ... Dead! 
Saturday's Game Mtchtgan 0 0 7 10 17 Notre Dame 3 10 10 0 23 Scoring 
ND-M1ke Johnston 35 FG 
NO-Larry Mortarty 24 run !Johnston kiCk) 
ND-Johnston 37 FG 
MICH -Anthony Carter 72 punt return tAh Haji-Shelkh kiCk) ND -Johnston 41 FG ND -Greg Bell 1 0 run (Johnston kiCk) 
MICH-Ha)I·She1kh 42 FG MICH -R1ck Rogers 39 pass from Steve Sm1th (HaJI·Shelkh k1ck) 
Mich NO Ftrsl downs 14 22 Aushtng attempts 36 55 Net Yards Rushtng 41 278 Net Yards Pass~ng 186 141 Passes camp-attempted 12-21 15·22 Had Intercepted 0 0 Total Net Yards 227 419 Fumbles·lost 2·2 2·1 Penalties· yards 3·15 7·66 Punts-average 7-394 7·420 
Individual Leaders 
RUSHING-M1ch•gan Lawrence RICk 13-47. Rtek Rogers 6·19. Anthony Carte 1-11 Notre Dame Larry Monart 16· I 16. Greg Bell20-95. Phil Carter 14-56. 
PASSING-M1ch1gan Steve Sm1th 12-21·1.186. Notre Dame Blalf K1el 15-22·0. 14 t. 
RECEIVING -M1ch1gan. Vmcent Bean 4·64. Cra1g Dunaway 4·45. Anthony Carte 2-34. RICk Rogers t-39. Notre Dame Tony Hunter 7-76. Joe Howard 2·31. Greg Bell2-13. 
Attendance -59,075 
Greg Bell scampers for his 10-yard touchdown that put Notre Dame ahead 23-7 in the third quarter Saturday night. The Irish held on to win 23-17. (Photo by Rachel Blount) 
• • . Irish 

continuedfrom page 12 
produced 15 completions in 22 at­tempts for 141 yards. 
"We had something to prove, and tonight we went out and did it," of­fered the junior slinger. "Last season, we weren't as ready to play as we were tonight. Last year's embarrass­ment was pretcy good incentive for us. We didn't want to be embar­rassed like that again. 
"This is a different Notre Dame football team." Bo Schembechler said the same thing about his club. "I didn't recognize:: that tc::am out there," complained Michigan's 
coach. "They simply played terrible. I really don't know if Notre Dame is that much better than last year or if we're just that bad." 
"The offensive line got whipped. The defensive line didn't tackle well. We made too many mistakes and didn't deserve to be in the game. 
"I just can't believe we got whipped." 
Faust believes his Irish are better -but better isn't quite good enough. "We're still far away from being a good football team," he said. "But I think we gave ABC it's money's worth. 
"We woke up the echoes a little bit tonight." 

The difference::, you could say, was like night and day. 
Last year, on a September afternoon, Michigan stomped an overconfident Notre:: Dame team, 2"i· 7, rol­ling up 40"7 total yards 004 on the:: ground) in the process. The result prompted ·Wolverine Ali-Amcrican ,)ffensive tackle/scholar Kurt Becker to comment, "We whomped them good." 
On Saturday night, howcver, it wa~ Notre Dame that did thc "whomping," so to speak. Michigan was hcld to under I00 yards rushing hx the t1rst time in nearly three years by an inspired Irish defense:: led by lineback­er Mike:: Larkin, who wasn't even supposed to play he­cause of a nagging shoulder ailment. 
The tina! score was 25-17. It could have been, or very wcll should have: hec::n 50-0, or worse. But after a 5-6 season and an off-season of abuse and just plain hell, the team was willing to settle for the "W," no matter how close the margin. 
What made the difference' In the locker room after the game, everyone had their OW11 opinion, hut the one word that was tossed around a lot was "contidence." Not overconfidence, mind you -the Irish lost every ounce of that somewhere around Wc::st Lafayette, Ind., last year. 
No, the issue on Saturday night was regaining that confidence, slowly but surely. 
"We had a lot of jitters in that first series," said Irish center Mark Fischer who, along with his cohorts on the offensive line, paved the way for 278 yards rushing and gave quarterback Blair Kiel enough time to call his mot­her, sign some autographs, do his B-Law homework and then throw a pass. "But we're a lot more confident line now. We know that anything that looks great in practice is going to work in the game." 
"We got confidence as the game went along," added guard Tom Thayer. "You never know you can handle them until the game begins. After the first drive, we realized we could take them and our confidence built up from that." 
Of course, confidence can easily turn into com­placency without a key ingredient -desire. And no one exemplified that desire more on Saturday than Coach Gerry Faust. 
You think Gerry didn't want to win that game? How about his reaction to the pass interference call during Michigan 's final drive? He ran almost to midfield, had a nervous breakdown (or so it seemed), and nearly decked assistant coach Greg Blache, who was smartly trying to restrain him. 
But worst ofall, he risked a I 5-yard unsportsmanlike conduct penalty that would have put Michigan on the ND 20 with two-and-a-half minutes left -plenty of time for the Wolverines ro put in the winning touch­down, with or without Anthony Carter. 

You could see nine months of anxiety just explode out of Faust at that moment. Granted, Gem· is not ex­actly a mild-manner~d guy, but he's neve; that rabid either. 
Faust, however, claimed there was a method to his extreme madness. "You can only take so much," he said, in reference to the questionable officiating that, among otheratrocities, denied Greg Bell a touchdown in the second quarter. "But the way things were going, we could have lost the game (because of the bad calls). I know they (the referees) are men of integrity, but I thought I was justified in arguing." 
And even though Faust still makes his "we still have a long way to go" speech to anyone who asks about a national championship (as one clueless out-of-town writer did at yesterday morning's press conference), there is good reason for optimism. 
Not that we're trying to reinstate the cocky feeling from after the LSU game last year, but just look at the schedule. Purdue and Michigan State, NO's next two opponents, both are floundering at 0-2_ Miami (Fia) is finished, now that star quarterbackjim Kelly is gone for the season with a shoulder separation suffered on Satur­day against (ofall teams) Virginia Tech. 
Arizona and Oregon, combined, are 0-5-Navy is 1-1, but most of us are too young to remember the last time the Middies scored a touchdown against Notre Dame ( 1978). That's six opponents that are noticeably weaker than Michigan, and suddenly the possibility of marching into Pittsburgh November 6 with a 7-0 record doesn't seem too farfetched after all. 
But we're getting ahead of ourselves. The weekend that the entire campus had waited so many months for has passed, and it really couldn't have worked out any better for Irish fans. The lights didn't go out, damage and injuries were minimal, and everyone had a ball. 
Savor this win, and the whole crazy weekend that went with it. And rest assured -the best may be yet to come. 
~C~Ke~r========================================= 
~~~~~•t============================M=o=n=d=ay=,=S=e=p=te=m=b=e=r=2=0='=1=9=8=2===p=ag=e===ll
Doonesbury 
IT'5 NO /.J5C. flCWRf)lf6 TO OUTOF /A/HAT, MY C4LCIJIAT!ON5, 
! TH&/<&'5 JIJ5TNO . /AJAY 0/JT OF IT 
~ 7HI5 T!Mtl 
·~ I 
i~~.,~;1
,t~! 
< ~·.•
; ···=-+.~ . ~ 
~~'I
fi_ ==II·

·t.~?~ 
9·20 
~ c:::s--_; Simon 
10 AKA Mars poker
The Daily Crossword 
14 In profu­38 Understood 
sion 40 Civet 15 Top-notch 41 Start a 16 Apple golf game 
throwaway 43 Owed 17 One of the 44 Sinuous 
Reeses one 18 Carry 45 Occurrence 19 Assuage 46 Beat it! 20 1949 Oscar 48 Kind of 
winner school: 23 Verily abbr. 24 Bee fol­49 Touch and 
lower taste 25 "H.M. Pul­51 -out ham,-" (makes do) 28 One of the 53"-Mini­Scotts ver" 
Saturday's Solution 
, ©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 9/20/82 

9/20/82

All Rights Reserved 

r---------------~ 


1 Wittyones 6 Criticism 36 Kindof 
Garry Trudeau 

Campus 

• 
3:30 p.m. -Computer Minicourse, Introduc­tion toJCL, 115 Computing Center 

•6:30 
p.m. -Volleyball, NO Women vs. South· western Michigan, ACC The Pit 

•7 
p.m. -Organizational Meeting, Of the Shakespeare Club, Wilson Commons Room, O'Hara Grace Graduate Townhouse, Everyone invited 

•7 
p.m. -Placement Meeting, For engineering graduating students, CCE Auditorium 

•7 
p.m. -Monday Night Film Series, "Touch of Evil", Annenberg Auditorium, S2. 50 

•7, 
and 9:30p.m. -Film, "Ragtime", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by B.C.A.C., S1.00 

•7 
p.m. -Organizational Meeting, Meeting for ND/SMC Young Democrats, 20 of LaFortune, Sponsored by Young Democrats, 

•7 
p.m. -Meeting, Fellowship of Christian Ath­letes Weekly Meeting, St. Ed's Lounge 

•7:30 
p.m. -Soccer, NO vs. Wheaton, Cartier Field 

•7:30 
p.m. -Writers and Other Troubadours, Dennis Donnelly, The Cornucopia, 303 South Michigan, S1.50 

•7:30 
p.m. -L-5 Meeting and Program, "A Case for Space", G.E.N. Canough, Notre Dame, LaFortune Little Theatre, Sponsored by NO L-5 Society 

•7:30 
p.m.-Club Meeting, ND/SMC American­Lebanese Club Meeting, International Student Lounge basement of LaFortune 

•9 
p.m. -Monday Night Film Series, "Strangers on a Train", Annenberg Auditorium, S2. 50 


T.V. Tonight 
6p.m. 
6:30P.M. ' 
7p.m. 
7:30p.m. 8p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10p.m. 10:30p.m. 11p.m. 11:30p.m. 
Brian 
16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 

34 The MacNeil/Lehrer Report 
16 M*A*S*H 
22 Family Feud 
28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 

~ 
16 Little House on the Prairie 
22 M*A*S*h 
28 That's Incredible 
34 Great Performances 
22 WKRP in Cincinnati 

16 Monday Night at the Movies "Coming Home" 22 CBS Movie Special: "Maid in America" 28 ABC Monday Night Football Green Bay vs. New York jets 
34 Tonight Scandinavia 
34 The River in the Desert 
22 22Eyewitness News 
34 The Dick Cavett Show 
16 NewsCenter 16 

22 TrapperJohn and Columbo 
16 Late Night with David Letterman 
28 Newswatch 28 
28 ABC News Nightline 

The saga ofthe youngest domer 




54 Charlotte 
ofTV 56 Gl address 58 Honor card 66 Muscat 
and­67 Selves 68 Pampas 
rope 70 Queue 71 Adam's son 72 David's 
daughter 73 Head, 
in Havre 74 Salver 75 Cubic 
meter 
DOWN 
1 Lowlife 
2 Neighbor· 
hood 
3 Stream 
4 Ms. Parton 
5 Said 
6 Kismet 
7 Stare 
8 Ludicrous 
action 9 More acute 10 King 
toppers 11 Gallivant 12 Gaelic 13 Observed 21 Listen! 22 Cogs 25 -Park, 
Colo. 

27 The Old Maid in Old Maid 
29 Termini 30 Lowcard 32 Window 
section 33 Hymn 34 Narrow 
glacial ridge 
35 One of the Taylors 37 Pushes for 
payment 39 Feeble 42 Wing: pref. 47 Crew 50 Least 
dangerous 52 Cricket and croquet 55 Trimming 
machine 57-a time 58 Bump 59 Pierre's 
friend 60 Unable to 61 Leg joint 62 Jot 63 Pale 64 May Whitty, 
for one 65 Play the 
lead 69 Auxiliary verb 


The ND Stu ent Union ptesents the 
~-IDUCDJrrmca~~ ~~~~Lm ~llcornrm~ rLCID~~r:mrnir 
Registrat!on: Tuesday, Wednesday, &Thursday 12:aotos:ao in The lrtsh Gardens QnthebasementoflaFortuneatthesouthendoftheNazz) 
Must register in person with ID Winners will be published in Friday's Observer winners may purchase ticket Friday, Monday, or Tuesday 10-4 at the SU Ticket Office/Record Store 
~ -~--------------~ 

Monday, September 20, 1982 -page 12 
BeatMichigan 

Lights, cameras 'wake up'Irish 
By KELLY SULLIVAN 

than Alabama, the Michigan game head down after that kind of thing,"
Sports Writer 
two years ago, better than any of 

admitted Faust at his post-game in­them." 
terview. "Sure, I got concerned Last week, Gerry Faust attended "Even with tonight's win, last year 
when that happened, but I said to the premiere showing of "Wake Up will be difficult to get out of our myself, 'Somebody around here has the Echoes," a film tracing the high­minds," said tri-captain Dave Duer­
got to keep their head up.' I called lights and history of Notre Dame son. "But whatever happens, at least 
the players to the sidelines and told
football. 
we'll be able to say we played a great 
them to forget about it real quick." 
"For the first time since I've been game Sept. 18. This was a very im­
"I told the defense, 'Okay, we bent

here, the weight ofthis job really fell portant win for us, for the coaching on that play, but let's fold,"'
not on my shoulders," said the Irish staff and for the students." 
added Duerson. "We still felt that we
coach. "Now I really know what 

Calling Notre Dame's mental and had them." Notre Dame football is all about." ---------­
physical domination of the Wol­Fifty minutes of Rockne, Leahy verines important is an understate­FootballSpecial
and Parseghian had a powerful im­ment. Irish won
The hadn't a 
--page 10
pact on Faust's players as well ­
nationally televised contest since they were shown the film just before 

the 1979 Cotton Bowl. And Faust Not until Duerson's intercept on the Saturday
heading to Stadium hadn't won a big game over a big Michigan's next possession did the 
night. 

name since his Moeller days. Irish sew up the win -on the 
"There wasn't much talking in the does a season anyway.
One victory not scoreboard, Statisticallylocker room before the game," said 
make. But if this weekend's perfor­speaking, it was no contest. one player. "That movie said it all. 
mance is any indication, the Irish -The Wolverines produced just 41 We just wanted to bring back the have on the to
and in particular their coach -yards ground Notre tradition and excitement of Notre 
learned a thing or two from a year Dame's 278 -it was Michigan's Dame football." 
ago. lowest rushing output in three years. It was all there Saturday -the 
The game's fourth quarter action Six of the Wolves' twelve drives lights, the cameras, the action ­
was a case in point. Michigan had netted one yard or less. Quarterback but, most importantly for the Irish, closed the scoring gap to six points Steve Smith was sacked on eight oc­the victory. on a wild touchdown by tailback casions for losses totaling 42 yards. 
"This is the best win for me since Rick Rogers, who picked an incom­Sophomore linebacker Mike Larkin I've been here," proclaimed senior plete toss offIrish cornerback Stacey led the assault with 11 tackles. guard Tom Thayer following the 23-Toran's shoulder for a score. 
"The 1 7 points they scored was 17 triumph over Michigan. "Better 
"Last year, I would have put my no indication of the game the defense played," Duerson con­firmed. "Our defense was outstand­ing."
Benefit game raises 
"Our front four did a great job," praised Faust. "We're stronger and quicker on both lines this year." 
Quarterback Blair Kiel got all the
over $30,000 for Logan 
time he needed to pull the trigger ­

his ABC Player of the Game efforts ByWILLHARE squad of younger alumni rallied to See IRISH, page 10 Sports Writer defeat the white squad, 105-102. 
But most importantly, it was a day 
"To take an afternoon to make 

devoted to helping the Logan Cen­something happen for the people at ter. Over $30,000 was ~xpected to In volleyball Logan Center is very special. I think be rai:;ni by the game and a post­at times wedo many thingsfor each 
game auction for the agency, which 

other but today just typifies what 
offers services such as a pre-school 

Irish break jinx,defeat Belles 
makes this university the univer­
for handicapped children and the sity." -Digger Phelps 
Special Olympics. "Tripucka drives around Dantley, 

"We've been clost: t.o Logan Cen­By MIKE SULLIVAN muster and scored on a whistling Irish stayed in their offense and now has it stolen by Dwight Clay. 
ter for a long time," said a glowing Sports Writer spike to take a 1-0 lead after three withstood a Saint Mary's comeback Clay runs the fast break, whips a John Shumate after the game. turns at the service line. try. The gap in talent between the behind-the-back pass to Toby "Digger (Irish Coach Phelps) The Notre Dame women's vol­However, the Irish played patient­two teams became more and more Knight, who dishes it back to Clay 
thought with the tax cuts and the leyball team appears to have shaken ly until their offense started obvious as the Belles played toughfor a patented corner jum­budget being revised, a lot of money its jinx against Saint Mary's as it working. As soon as they got it going, but continued to lose ground. 
per .. Swoosh!" 
was being taken away from a lot of buried the Belles, 15-5, 15-8, 15-2 it was no contest. Their more The final game was more of the For avid Notre Dame basketball programs." before a standing-room-only crowd talented players intimated their op­same. Notre Dame moved up earlyfans at Saturday's Logan Center "We then came up with the idea of Saturday morning in the ACC Pit. ponents with excellent blocking and and never gave Saint Mary's an op­
Benefit Game, it was too good to be an alumni homecoming. So we got a 

The Irish had beaten the Belles crisp plays. portunity to mount anything close true. committee together and Gary 
only once prior to this match, but Terese Henken and Mary to a rally.> Fond memories of Austin Carr's Brokaw and I just took it by the 
they showed how a winning attitude McLaughlin were the maill' "The girls got the job done," said scoring prowess, Dwight Clay's horns and it led to this game." 
and some scholarships can change beneficiaries of the explosion. The Irish coach Sandy Vanslager. "I think ability to excite a crowd, or even > 
The warmth among the players history quickly. two of them combined for eight that the pr.omise that they'd practiceKelly Tripucka's penchant for com­
overflowed from the court to the The only time the outcome of the straight points on their serves on the during the football game if theyplaining on bad calls bounced back arena during the auction where 
match was in doubt was early in the way to an 11-1 bulge. didn't play well motivated them. 
with each dribble for over 6,000 fans See LOGAN, page 9 first game. Saint Mary's stopped The second game was not as close "Also, we'd had problems with in the ACC. In the game, the blue 
whatever offense Notre Damt' could as the score ( 1 S-8) indicates. The Saint Mary's before and the girls were looking forward to beating them the rest of the time that we
Fall baseball play them." Once again, the Irish played out­standing team defense. Henken, McLaughlin, Karen Bauters, Josie
Irish drop doubleheader to Creighton 
Maternowski, Mary Jo Hensler, Julie Pierson, and Jackie Pagley turned By NEAL SMITH tough defensive chances into good
third. John Deasey singled after the and making the score 6-4. The and committed four errors
Sports Writer offensive plays. 
first two batters had walked and Bluejays later picked up an in· compared to Notre Dame's .28_", bat­
"Our middle blocking, especially
lead-off batterJack Moran sacrificed surance run in the sixth,-making it ting and nine errors, not including
Opening its fall season Saturday, by Mary and Karen, was great," said
them to second and third. Notre 7-4. some mental base-running errors. "I
the Notre Dame baseball team was Assistant Coach Dan Anderson.
Dame then took a 4-_>, lead in the Notre Oame had oportunities to was upset with the lack of defense
defeated in a doubleheader by the "Aiso,Jackie came into the game and
fourth when Phil Dingle lead off shorten the gap in the fifth and sixth and the mental lapses," Gallo said. 
Creighton University Bluejays, 14-6 played real well." 
with a single followed by a bunt innings. In the tlfth after Carl Vouna and 7-4 atJake Kline Field. Creighton's biggest contributor Notre Dame picked the right time
single by Steve Passinault. Following singled and a walk, Vouna was 
"I wasn't pleased, period," said bunt a strikeout, was lead-offbatter Doug Palmer: five to overcome the Saint Mary's jinx.
a sacrifice and caught in a run down offsecond base Irish Coach rarry Gallo, referring to singles in six at bats, three RBI's, This year probably marks the last
Moran scored both runners with a when the catcher threw to second his team's performance. "We do not three stolen bases, and six year that the two will play each
runs

single to left. after a pitch. In the sixth with two on 
have much experience. We are a However, Creighton took the lead and no outs, the two next batters scored. Rypien and Eric Campbell other. The Irish are now in Division I young team." both had noteworthy days for the while the Belles remain in Division
for good in the fifth. After a lead-off struck out and the third tlew out. In the 7-4 second game, Ill. This means that each team's
Bluejays as each was four ofseven at

walk ahd a fly out, the Bluejays got a In the tlrst game, 1+6, CreightonCreighton, visiting from Omaha, schedule will be loadt"d with op­
the plate with three RIB's.

single off Irish losing pitcher Buster scored in every inning except' for Neb., started the scoring with three ponents in its division. 
Lopes, who came in during the the st:cond. The Bluejays took the The brightest spot for Notre 
runs in the first two innings offNotre fourth inning. The ball was then Dame was centertlelder Deasey. The Tonight, Notrt" Damt" end~ a long
lead in the third with a two-run Dame starting pitcher Bill Matre. misplayed by the leftfielder, which homer by Don Montgomery off of sophomore lkasey was t(Jur of six homestand when it elltertains The runs were scored from a collec­Southwestern \lichigan at 6:_~0 in
allowed the runner from tlrst to pitcher Steve Whitmyer. making it 5· and had two RBis. However. Deasey. 
tion of four singles, trree stolen the ACC Pit. This will be one of the
score. Following a hit batsman and a l. Creighton's big inning came in tht: who is also a hockey player, will not 
bases, an error, a wild pitch, and a walk given up by the Irish's new seventh when it batted through the be playing in the rest of the fall last home matches of the year as the sacrifice fly. team will not return home until Oc­
pitcher Mark Clements, Creighton's line-up and scored six runs on four baseball season due to the beginning The Irish got on the scoreboard of hockev. Moran and Jason tober 20 when it will give Saint
Tim Rypien hit a double down the hits. with two runs in the bottom of the Mary's a rematch.
left field line, scoring two runners For the day, Creighton hatted .:'165 Schomer also each added two RBis. 





