
,~Ubmarine -page 5
' ' 

VOL. XVII, NO. 30 the independent student newspaper serving notre Jame and saint mary's THURSDAY, OCTOBER 7,1982 
Poisoned Tylenol capsules 
Testfinds cyanide in suicide case 
PHILADELPHIA, Pa. (AP) &Johnson, said he was not aware of "We have not ruled out the pos­Cyanide was in Extra-Strength the developments in Philadelphia. sibility of more than one person," he Tylenol capsules found at the And a spokesman for the Food and said, but added, "it looks less and less 
Philadelphia home of a man whose Drug Administration in Washington that it's more than one." death last spring was listed as a also said he was unaware of the Chicago Mayor Jane Byrne yester­suicide by cyanide poisoning, police reponed Tylenol connection to the day introduced an ordinance requir­
said yesterday. Philadelphia death. ing protective sealing of all 
A preliminary test at the time of Scafidi said it was not known if over-the-counter drugs and medica­William Pascual's death on April 3 Pascual had taken any ofthe Tylenol tions sold in the city. The proposalfound nothing unusual in the pills, capsules found in the bottle. Capt. follows a law passed earlier this 
but funher tests were done this Gerald Kane of the homicide divi­week by the Cook County Board, week after seven deaths in the sion said at the time of the original but extends to free drug samples and Chicago area were blamed on autopsy that tests showed no includes some medicated cos­cyanide-poisoned capsules, Tylenol in Pascual's body, although metics, according to Terry A. Hocin, 
Philadelphia Police Chief Inspector they did reveal cyanide in his deputy city health commissioner. Frank Scafidi said at a news con­
stomach and blood. Meanwhile, police in Oroville, ference. 
In Chicago, Illinois Attorney Calif, said they were seeking a Cyanide also was found in tam­
General Tyrone Fahner said before "copycat" who may have planted ed pered Extra-Strength Tylenol the Philadelphia announcement that strychnine in Extra-Strength Tylenol capsules taken from store shelves in investigators will continue to capsules after hearing ofthe Chicago
the Chicago area, and the pain­operate on the premise they have poisonings. But Illinois' topreliever was recalled by its manufac­followed from the first day -that a prosecutor said he did not believe turer. single person striking at random one case "inspired" the other. Scafidi said the bottle of capsules loaded Tylenol capsules with In the Oroville incident, Greg was found in a shoe in a closet ofPas­cyanide and placed them on the Blagg, a 27-year-old butcher, went cual's home. A suicide note shelves of five Chicago-area stores into convulsions last Thursday after addressed to his mother also was last week. He is heading a task force taking capsules that contained found, he said. ofmore than 100 investigators from srrychnine. Blagg, who has Lawrence G. Foster, vice presi­federal, county and state agencies in­dent for public relations for Johnson vestigating the cyanide deaths. See 1YLENOL, page 3 
Gilligan, Rice 

Experts debate nuclear arms, 
By PAM RICHARDSON Gilligan discussed the aspects of cal warfare, which he described as News Staff morality and the governmental in­"highly sophisticated" in the Soviet fluence on the issue of a nuclear Union, and "primitive, at best" in the 
"We should take this (nuclear) freeze. A nuclear war "doesn't deal United States. freeze thing and forget it," said with actions of an individual, but Rice quoted former President Professor Charles Rice of the Notre with decisions ofgovernment which Gerald R. Ford's contention that "we Dame Law School. But "to par­involve killing on a large scale." have a window of vulnerability ticipate in a nuclear war arms war is Gilligan also noted that "a govern­opening up in the mid-1980's._" morally indefensible," countered ment, by definition, is not com­This vulnerability is, in part, a former Gov. John Gilligan ofOhio. petent to make our moral result of the number of people who 
And so went the Nuclear Freeze decisions." He stressed morality favor a nuclear freeze. debate held last night before a full throughout the debate as a primary He also stressed that "the govern­house in the Memorial library justification for his suppon of a ment cannot advocate a policy Auditorium. nuclear freeze. which cannot produce protection 
Rice, a prominent national Rice, in his opening remarks, for the people. If this happens, the spokesman, argued against a nuclear argued that a nuclear freeze would burden (of protection) goes to freeze, and Gilligan took the pro­actually hurt the United States. "To those promoting a nuclear freeze." freeze view in the event co­bomb a city is deeply immoral, but sponsored by The Observer and a so· is a policy that would forego a new organization on campus, the defense ofcities," he said. 

Chinese writers'group makes first U.S. visit 
ByKELLI FLINT 
ExecutiveNews Editor 
Americans seem "frank, outspoken, and friendly ...with a sense of humor" to the first delegation of Chinese writers ever to visit the United States. 
Originating from the People's Republic of China, the group stopped at Notre Dame this week to tour the campus and meet with University officials. 
i 
l

A Los Angeles conference for Chinese and American authors 
r 

! America in September. 
Yuan Henian acts as interpreterfor the group. An Associate Profi:s­sor of English with Beijing Institute of Foreign Languages, Henian is the only member who can speak English. 
Henian considers the conference the beginning ofa mutual under­standing between Chinese and American writers, countries and peoples. 
"We understand each other," he said. "We've been cut off, but now we're beginning to reach each other ...something that is very good." 
The events of the 1950's were a major cause for the "cut oft" Henian described. "It was very difficult for writers to get in touch then," he said. "Before this trip, writers visited Europe individually." 
The Chinese government did not sponsor the delegation. "We are not from the government, but from a popular association -writers themselves," Henian said. 
The group's Notre Dame visit was suggested by editor Norman Cousins, who, together with UCLA, sponsored the Los Angeles con­ference. 
"Cousins is a friend of Father Hesbunzh's. " Henian noted. The Chinese writers are headed by literary critic Feng Mu and 
includes novelist Wu Qiang, novelist U Zhun, poet U Ying, novelist Zhang Jie, shon story writer Jiang Zilong, and Fan Baoci, the secretary ofthe delegation. 
The group is scheduleu to return to China Oct. 20, after visiting U'1iversities in Washington D.C., NewYork City, Boston and Salt Lake City. 
brought the delegation from the China Writers Association to 
Federalist Society. Rice justified the increase in 
Hit-and-run victims 
Gilligan began with a twenty nuclear weapons by citing the edge minute opening statement, saying of the Soviet Union. Reports from the debate was really "an explora­Congress have indicated at least tion ofsome very difficult problems. twenty-five Soviet violations of the 
Families offer $1000 reward 
No one in this room wants to Salt Treaty, he said. 
By MARGARET FOSMOE One officer said authorities are player in high school. He has a weaken America. On the contrary, "The danger and threat ofnuclear Saint Marv's ExecutiveEditor waiting for information from the FBI broken bone in his neck, a fractured we want to strengthen America." war is not so much from the laboratory regarding clothing and and dislocated left ankle, threeHe felt, however, that strengthen­weapons, bur from those who have Families of two Notre Dame hit-samples sent there for a quick and fractured bones in his right leg (soing America should not be ac­them in their hands." 
and-run victims offered a Sl,OOO thorough analysis. badly fractured it could not be complished by increasing our Soviet superiority over the United reward yesterday for information Mannion, of Syracuse, N.Y., and repaired in three hours in the nuclear weapons supply. States is especially evident in chemi­about the Sept. 26 accident which Mcinerny, of 2158 Portage, both operating room) and severed ten­


injured the two students. sophomores at the University, ap-dons in both knees. He has barely 
At a press conference, family parently were struck from the rear been conscious since the accident," members for Elizabeth Mcinerny by a vehicle as they walked in heavy he said. and Kerin Mannion a.~ked for help in fog in the 1400 block ofSouth Bend "Consequently, this beautiful seeking the driver who allegedly Ave. young girl will need months to struck the couple in heavy fog Sept. Mannion was listed in fair condi-recover her strength and memory, 
26. tion in St. Joseph's Medical Center and our boy will never run again," 
"If you have any information that yesterday. Mcinerny, daughter of said Mannion. will assist the police in their inves­Ralph and Connie Mcinerny, was Mannion said he looks to the tigation of this crime, please call the also listed in fair condition in "University and the student body to police at 284-9201," urged John Memorial Hospital. rally toward (preventing) this kind Mannion, Kerin's father. Mannion Mannion said that his son is "in a of infident. We look to the student spoke for both families in making a great deal of pain and not very body to respond to this kind of at-second public appeal. coherent." tack" 
The families made an initial appeal According to Mannion, neither Mannion said he would remain in last week asking for anyone with in­student has been able to supply in­South Bend until his son shows formation concerning the accident formation about the accident. greater improvement, and his wife to come forward. He said, "Beth (Mcinerny) is in­will stay with the son until he is dis­
The South Bend Police reported a capable of sustaining a conversion charged from the hospital. few phone calls after the first appeal, and is not awake most ofthe day." The Mcinerny family was un­
Prof Charles Rice Gov.john Gilligan but received no substantial leads. Mannion "was a star basketball available for comment. 
Thursday, October 7, 1982-page 2 

NewsBrieb 
By The Obserwr and The Associated Pres.· 
A dam burstat an iron ore mine in Liberia early yesterday; sending tons of debris down a hillside into a miners' camp. The Liberian Ministry of Information said 34 people were killed and 38 injured Western diplomats in the West African nation said earlier they had been told between 200 and 300 people were killed Rescue workers were still searching the debris for victims, Liberian Director of Public Affairs Jeff Mutada said in a telephone call from Monrovia The dam, which held back water and waste materials from process­ing iron ore, burst after three days of torrential rains, Mutada said. The miners' camp beneath the dam housed between 300 and 400 people but Mutada said part of it escaped being hit by debris. The U.S.-based Republic Steel Co. has a 60 percent interest in the mine. 
-AP 

Libya's official news agency today claimed anti-aircraft batteries last month shot down a pilotless American spy plane from the U.S. Sixth Fleet over Benghazi, Libya. The report from the agency]ANA, monitored in Rabat, said the plane was downed Sept. 2, but the announcement was delayed to permit "expert ex­amination and identification of the wreckage." Benghazi is Libya's second city, 500 miles east ofthe capital, Tripoli.]ANA said the plane was shot down while flying through an international air traffic lane "in the hope ofescaping the surveillance of Libyan radar." -AP 
A sperm bank has been opened by a California feminist health center to help thousands of infertile couples, single women and lesbians who want children. It's very threatening to some people," said Laura Brown, director of the Oakland Feminist Women's Health Center, which formally opened the bank on Tues­day. "Women are not only going to control their bodies an~( reproduction through abortions, but they will also be able to control when they have children." The sperm bank is the first in northern California and the first nationwide to be run by women, its director says. The bank, which stemmed from an informal sperm donor­insemination program at the 10-year-old center, is expected to an­tagonize abortion foes because it "represents another form of freedom and choice for women," said assistant director Barbara Raboy. The center, which also provides abortion, vasectomy and birth control services, already has screened more than 200 men who 
want to donate sperm. -AP 

A Florida man has been charged with motesting a 14­
year-old boy found dead in a ditch in neighboring Hamilton County. 
Indianapolis police charged Duncan V. Patterson, 47, with child 
molesting Tuesday in connection with the disappearance of Del­
voyd Lee Baker of Indianapolis. His body was found Sunday. Inves­
tigators said Patters ton admitted he paid Baker for a homosexual act 
but denied nied any involvement in his death. They quoted Patter­
son as saying he picked up the eighth-grade student on a downtown 
street Saturday, took him to a motel, later drove the youth back 
downtown and dropped him off at University Square. Police said 
they are treating the death as a homicide although an autopsy failed 
to determine the cause of death. Police say they also are trying to 
determine whether there is any connection between Baker's death 
and the deaths ofthree other young men whose corpses were found 
in ditches in Hamilton County and northern Marion County since June 1980. -AP 
An Indianpolis woman who bore a child out of wedlock six years ago has filed a federal court suit seeking Social Security benefits from the account of the 70-year-old man she says was the child's father. The 23-year-old mother, whose name was not released, is trying to overturn a Social Security Administration denial of benefits from the account of Overton L. White. White, a retiree who had a part-time job, died in 1980 at age 70. The woman con­tends she "dated" White from April I976 until June 11, 1978. Her suit alleges the Social Security Administration erred and that the youngster should be granted surviving child's insurance benefits. The woman charges that the father "was contributing to the support (of the child) at the time of his death." "Evidence in the record shows without any contradiction" that White fathered the child, the suit states. -AP 
Jerome King Criswell, the white-haired television "propheteer," has died following a stroke. He was 75. Criswell, a native of Princeton, Ind., had been admitted to St. Joseph Medical Center in Burbank, Calif, on Aug. 30, hospital officials said Tuesday. He died Monday. The self-styled psychic, who went only by his last name, claimed he first realized he could predict the future when he would tell his parents, morticians in Indiana, when people were about to die. He went to Hollywood and appeared regularly on the Tonight show and on a local Los Angeles station. Calling himself a "20th century Nostradamus," he claimed 87 percent accuracy for his forecasts on subjects from natural disasters to politics. But in a 1973 Orange County appearance, one of his last, he predicted that Queen Elizabeth II would fall ill and Prince Charles would assume the throne, that Richard Nixon would serve a third presidential term and that within three years all nine members of the U.S. Supreme Court would be women. -AP 
A fire in the Marion County jail was contained around 8: I 5 
p.m. yesterday, and about 40 inmates who had been evacuated were returned to the jail, authorities in Indianapolis said last night. The fire broke out before 8 p.m. and is believed to have started in the basement, they said. Other details remained sketchy. -AP 
Partly sunnythis afternoon and turni~g cooler with a ~o percent chance ofmainly morning showers. High m the low and mtd 70s. Clearing tonight and cool. Lo in low and mid 50s. Tomorrow, partly sunny and mild. High in low and mid 70s. -AP 
Another alcohol story 
Yes folks, here is yet another commentary to go along 
with the recent bombardment of alcohol-related 
stories. But before you hurriedly turn the page in ex­
pectation of the latest Aspirinman installment, I urge 
you to take a few minutes to read on. 

Since the contents ofa letter Dean of StudentsJames Roemer sent to Campus View residents appeared in last Friday's Obseroer, the campus has been buzzing with jokes and jabs regarding his requests of prudence and temperance in alcohol use. The request receiving the most attention from the campus comedians is the sug­gestion that plenty offood be served at parties, especial­ly chips and vegetables. The vegetable jokes have been 
running rampant ever since, and I can't say that I blame the jokesters. Summer squash and Budweiser never has appealed to me as a favorable combination, especially if one ofthem is to be consumed in mass quantities. 
At one party this past weekend, the hosts facetiously carried out Roemer's requests to the letter by making available cans ofcorn along with the cans of beer. 
But if we can stop with the belly laughs for awhile and a lend a more serious ear to Roemer's requests, I think you will find some very positive and sensible elements which should be given serious consideration. 

and sensible and an attempt should be made to follow them. Limiting the size of parties, serving food and soft drinks and avoiding the large keg party are suggestions that can be easily followed. In fact, we all have a respon­sibility to implement some control measures at our parties to ensure the welfare of those who attend. 
Unfortunately, though, the requests made by Roemer will probably be ignored by most of the Campus View residents merely because they were just that; requests. Because they were not issued as a direct command, they will be laughed at and forgotten. 
Indiana Univers t ity's Dean ofStudents, Michael Gor­don, was not so lenient. He claims that alcohol abuse at 
I.U. is directly related to problems of vandalism, academic failures and sex-related assaults. To enforce 


It's no secret that alcohol ····· ' the policy against alcohol abuseisaseriousproblemat •.• ·. :·:.::-~:-...~\. ~J~f;:f~·u·. consumption in under-Notre Dame and Saint ~ ·.·~··g·~~~~~;.·'···.~·~ :-graduate residences, I.U. of­Mary's. The problem is even .~>:..".:: ~ '::·:: "' '::',.:~~~-... Dr·::· ficials are conducting spot
::6,;c:..,....-\·::

.. -,more severe off campus, for .~:~:: -checks of public areas in students are not restricted • .'·:·...:~:~~ :; •. dormitories and fraternity by parietals, nosy RA's and ··, '· ;." 0~;..'. }~;. .... houses, confiscating liquor 
~~~~o~i~ca~~~:or:~ude~~~ .~;~~~.:;. ....~::.: ~~ ;~~~~-.~.~1~9:::~;..{~_;:.1./ ~~~r :~~~: a~;i~:~~=t':::~ 
or those who attend off-y · -~ V.\..-.j; . have been afraid to stand up ~:i~~u:hai~~~s, h;;;:ar~~ ··:::··C)~~f~~~:·~-:~,··. ·~. \?~9\~A :~c~~~~ s;:~~~:~ ~~~du~~~ 
blanche when it comes to :)· "\ :.~ ·::. :' ~ · ~\~.'
•..._}~••~_,/::~·::' don. 

drinking. Many get so com-,."•. ··a~· ~· .....~: •::: .:· Although the I.U. ad­
~~·, pletely trashed that they :·:·:·.·~ .:.~...0 ··· .::·.:::r.. ~ ;·..:: ;"{~: ministration is being aren't even aware of what ~··:. ... a·:..
-~·:·.~..!/.=.-: <f":~~·· :-~~-·: accused of scare tactics and 
they're doing and problems ·~:.••::-:.·:.-:..oo:.:.;G··· :::::·~:; .., .::....;:.·:~ harrassment, the
..' measures 
~· •• ., •. ~ ••• : ~; ,... ••• ~ I'-' :...••• ... • ...:-.. 
result because of this. Fights · :.· .. "lt~ • : ;:~.~~;-:" ·13Jlk~ are a last resort to a problem
•::.... "<?u~':: 

break out, vandalism erupts l 11 and general chaos becomes 
the norm. 

In one recent incident, two on-campus residents were arrested by South Bend police after breaking a window at a service station near Campus View. They had just left a·party at Cat mpus View and, with asense of irresponsibility that often accompanies the over con­sumption of beer, committed an act which could have gotten them into a lot oftrouble. 
Most people can get drunk and have a good time in the process. It is the people who are affected by too much alcohol that their sense ofresponsiblity and good judgement abandons them. When this happens, they become dangerous to themselves and others. The problem is magnified at off-campus parties because many students drive to them. After filling up at the party, they then proceed to get in their cars and drive home or to the bars, all the while endangering their lives and the lives ofothers on the road. 
Will it have to take more alcohol-related deaths 
before students finally realize the seriousness of the 
problem? 

The requests made by Roemer are e11tirely practical 
• , which has gotten out ofcon­
trol  and  have  to  be  met  
head-on  with  radical  
measures.  

For once it appears that the Notre Dame administra­tion is placing its faith in the intelligence and common sense of the students. Roemer could just as easily in­itiate Gestapo tactics similar to the ones practiced at 
I.U. The drinking age is still 21 north of Bloomington, 
and most of the students attending off-campus parties are under age. In effect, Roemer is throwing the ball into the students' court. We can run recklessly and hap­hazardly with it or we can attack the situation with a 
well thought and intelligent game plan. We all have to take the responsiblity upon ourselves to be more care­ful of our own actions and those of our friends. Unless we approach the grand weekend parties with more cau­
tion and restraint, a serious problem, perhaps even a death, could very easily result from our recklessness. If the situation worsens, then the administration will take the ball back and be forced to take actions similar to those at I.U. And none of us want that. 

The Observer 
Design Editor................... Dierdre Murphy Design Assistant ................. Ken Cerabona Layout Staff................. Reggie (ofcourse) Typesetrers .......................... Jim Maclennan 
Bruce&Tom News Editor....................... Mark Worscheh Copy Editor............................Greg Swiercz 
Editorials Layout....................... Tim Neely 
Sports Copy Editor .................. Ed Konrady Typists .............................. Mary Beth Poner 
Karen Miranda Ad Design ............................. Marilyn larkin Photographer........... Ed Carroll Guest Ap­pearances ........................ the Rabbit ... Tari 
'Just let me make it to tbe weekend ...Hi Brenda!"-M. W. When I was growing up, my best friend 
was a unicorn, 
Tbe others smiled at me and called me 
crazy,; But I was not upset to know tbat 1 did not conform, 
I've always tbougbt tbelr seeing must be 
bazy. 
The Observer 1 USPS 598 9201 15 publtsherl Monday through Frtday and on home football Saturdays except dunng exam und vacdtton penods The Observer <S published by the students of Notre Dame and Sarnl Mary s Col 
lege Subscnpftons •nay be purchased for $25 per year 1$1 5 per semester) by wnttng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lndtana 46556 
The Observer ts a member of The Associated Press Ad reproductron nghts are reserved 
Second class postage patd at Notre Dame lndtana 46556 


Thursday, October 7, 1982-page 3

The Observer 


Gunm.en elude police, getaw-ay w-ith ransom. 
BONN. West (~ermany (AF) Police helicopters and ground patrob combed the central Rhine \'allev and the cit.v of Cologne for two gunmen who ~scaped with 1.2 million marks ( S-!80,000) after seizing II hoMages and losing the police in a chase up and down the Rhine. 
"There is a big ~e,trch with addi­tional officers and helicopters. but at the moment. we don't knmv exact!) where the fugitin_~ are," said Karl­Heinz Klein, a Kohknz ~olice 
~pokesman. 
The last trace ';! che gunmtn was thdr fourth gcraw.ty car, fount! abandoned in ( ulogne about 10:20 
a.m. yesterday. police ~a.td. 
"l:nfortunatel). wt lost the trail through bad weatlwr in the night.·· !'iaid Koblenz crintinal investigator Franz Barth. 
Two of tht· ho~tages were wounded. One. a 19-year-old man, was hospitalized with a leg wound. The other, a woman bank teller, was grazed by a bullet on the shoulder. 
Wearing masks, the two men invaded a savings bank in Koblenz. 35 miles southwest of Bonn, Tues­day afternoon, apparently to rob it. But an alarm was set off, and the men took two women and seven men employees of the bank hostage and threatened a "bloodbath" unless they were given a million marks and a getaway car. 
The police deposited half the ran­

som at the door to the bank and 
parked the getaway car, a BMW, 
outside with the rest ofthe money in 
it at about 9:30 p.m. The gunmen 
relesed one hostage, a man with a 
heart condition, but then. shot the 
19-year-old in the leg, and another 
hostage carried him out. 
Police said the gunmen also blew open a bank safe and took 200,000 marks from it, then slipped out ofthe bank just before 3:30a.m. yesterday, 
Fire fighters revtse tacttcs inmine blaze 
MORGANFIELD, Ky. (AP) ­Workers battling a fire inside an Is­land Creek Coal Co. mine near here changed tactics early yesterday after two days ofunsuccessful attempts to douse the flames. 
Information about the fire was sketchy, bur state officials have been at the scene "around the clock" since the fire's discovery Sunday, said James Thorp, a mining inspec­tor supervisor with the state Mines and Minerals Department. 
Thorp said his agency was notified 

of the fire shortly after 6 p.m. Sun­
day, when it was discovered by Is­
land Creek workers. 
John Gray. a spokesman for Island Creek's western Kentucky division, issued a short statement on the fire, stating only that workers were trying to extinguish the fire from the surface yesterday. 
Thorp said he did not believe the fire would "endanger anybody in the surrounding area." 
A company official who did not want to be identified said yesterday that workers tried for about 48 hours to extinguish the fire by fight· ing it on the inside of the Hamilton No.1 mine. 
That strategy was halted about midnight Tuesday, and workers planned to seal the mine to keep the fire from igniting gas, the official said. Under the new plan, holes would be drilled from the surface 
and the affected areas of the mine would be flooded with water. 
The fire began after a slate fall, ap­parently when the chunk of rock struck trolley wires and ignited tim­ber inside the mine, the company of­ficial said. 
using the bank director and the woman teller as shields. They took offwith them in the BMW. 
Roaring through the narrow streets at high speed. they headed north along the Rhine. A photog­rapher said at least I 0 police cars gave chase. and a helicopter over­head tracked them. 

"lt looked like ' The Streets ofSan Francisco,' ... said the photographer. 
After about 1 5 miles. the gunmen hegan shooting at their pursuers. police said. The driver ofone police car lost control and crashed into a lamppost. But the chase went on. 

In Bad Godesberg, a southern sub­urb of Bonn, the gunmen seized a hattered ford from a couple. trans­ferred their hostages and the money to it. and fled back up the Rhine. 
Pausing in Remagen. they seized a parked police car, but in a shootout with the police a bullet grazed the woman hostage's shoulder. The gun­men drove offwith her and the bank director but later returned to Remagen, freed the woman and went on with only one captive. 
The police then apparently lost track ofthem. 


Peter Pulitzer laughs as be waitsfor testimony to begin in his divorce from his wife, Roxanne, who is smilingat herattorney. The couple isfight­ing for custody of their twin five-year-old sons and also Pulitzer's estimated S25 million

Pulitzerdivorce 
... Tylenol 
continuedfrom page 1 
recovered, told reporters Tuesday that he bought the Tylenol at a local drug store two weeks before taking the capsule -well in advance of reports ofthe Chicago-area deaths. 
Police Sgt. Jack Lee in Oroville said the account of the purchase Blagg gave to authorities has not been confirm~d." Blagg was ques­tioned for two hours Tuesday by FBI agents. 
The U.S. Food ·and Drug Ad­ministration said strychnine was found in two other bottles obtained from the Longs Drug Store where Blagg said he purchased his. 
"It's highly suspected at this point 
n time that it was a copycat crime," 
Lee said. 
That assessment was disputed by Illinois Attorney General Tyrone Fahner, who is heading a task force 
of more than 100 investigatm:s from federal, county and state agencies in­vestigating the cyanide deaths of seven people. 
"The strychnine case does not seem to have been inspired by what happened in Chicago," he said. "We see no link. The FBI here is working 
with the FBI in California." 

Fahner said task force inves­tigators will continue to operate on the premise they have followed • from the first day -that a single per· son striking at random loaded Tylenol capsules with cyanide and placed them on the shelves of five 
Chicago-area stores last week. 
"We have not ruled out the pos­sibility ofmore than one person," he said, but added, "it looks less and less that it's more than one." 
Cook County Medical Examiner Albert Stein said yesterday that lab tests indicate cyanide could have remained in the adulterated capsules "for at least 48 hours" with· out revealing tell-tale" signs of their content. 
Fahner said more than I,OOO per· sons had been interviewed since the task force was established and that investigators have narrowed down that list to "eight or nine" potential suspects, all local residents. 
"They were all in the Chicago area at the relevant time," said Fahner. "We're not concerned about their leaving the jurisdiction." 

Wygant Floral CO.I~c. 327 Lincolnway 
232-3354 
·gQowe~ {;oft aQQ occa~Lott~ ~~ 
Come in and browse 


Glasses Broken? 
SAME DAY SERVICE
*Glass or Plastic Lenses
*Sinale Vision or M•ltifocal *:()yer 600 Fra111es 
University Center, 6502 Grape Road, Mish::1waka, Indiana Phone 219-277-2400-Open Mon.-Fri. 9-9; Sat. 9-5 
fortune. The case is on trial in Palm Beach County (Florida) County Circuit Court, and local resi­dents have been eagerly awaiting each day's tes­timony in order to learn the stories behind the couple's shaky six-and-a-balfyear maniage. The trial continues today in the chambers ofjudge CarlHarper. -(AP Photo) 


Are You Interested ln••• 
Baptism? Confirmation? Becoming Catholic. 
Discussion and PreparationBegin This Week !!! 
CONTACT 
CAMPUS AT aJI 


MINISTRY 5242 
~,~-' 
.· 

... .. .PITTSBURGH CLUB
r
1Fall Break Bus Sign-Ups 1 Thurs. Oct. 7 6:30pm 
I 
laFortune Little Theatre ... Buses leave Friday, Oct. 22 4pm
I Return Sunday, Oct. 31 lpm 
I RoundTrip $45 One-Way $29 No Refunds 
Payment must be made in full at time of reservation 
Questions call Linda at at 2113 


The Observer Thursday, October 7, 1982 -page 4 

Father Edward O'Connor entertains a question from a South Bend resident before beginning his lecture "The Family: Womb of Society" last night in O'Shaughnessy Hall. The lecture was sponsored by the Thomas More Society ofNotre Dame. -(Photo by Ed Carroll) 

Applications now being accepted 
for 1ihe position of 
Assistant Business and Technology Editor 
!his is a paid position. 
Call Alex at 239-5303 for details 
UNBEATABLE PRICES!! 
'' 

Your Keg and Quart Headquarters'' 
KEG SPECIALS 

$29.99 
$28.99 

Michelob 
Hamm's

$4.99 case 24 cans 
************************* 
Pabst 

$5.99 case24cans 
************************* 
Quart Beer Specials Old Milwaukee $6.99 
Budweiser  $8.99  
Pabst  $7.99  
Strohs  $8.99  
CARLO ROSSI  

BIG 4 LitER




Si4~9 
Prices Good Thru Oct. 12, 1982 
World mourns Sadat's death 
CAIRO, Egypt (AP) -Wiping a tear from her eye, the widow of President Anwar Sadat placed a wreath on his grave yesterday -the first anniversary of his assassination by Moslem fanatics. 
Relatives and friends, including the widow of the shah ofIran, stood by Jihan Sadat beneath a brilliant desert sky as an honor guard placed the flowers on Sadat's white marble tomb, 300 yards from the site where he was gunned down. 
Some ofthe women, all dressed in mourning black, wept during the brief, low-key ceremony. Farah Diba, widow of thelranian monarch whom Sadat sheltered in his final months, stood gaunt-faced beneath a black lace shawl. 
The shah's son and self· proclaimed heir, Reza, was among the mourners for Sadat, architect of the Egyptian-Israeli peace treaty. 
Mrs. Sadat, wearing dark glasses and a black dressed buttoned to the neck, was also accompanied by her son Gamal and President Hosni Mubarak's wife Suzan, who rarely ap· pears in public. They listened as a Moslem sheik read from the Koran, and then Mrs. Sadat shook hands with other mourners, who wept 
3l:.L3l\D~::!®~ ·:n>:r ©:.F:F:I'-D:Jl:!i~ LPl1~::~.-~~ rf®:Ji ~:ll::Jl ~'JJ:r'JT:li:.E 
Closest Liquor Sivre to N·D· Campus 
end Ave. (only) 
open!\'. 
:\Koran lay in a hook-rest on top of Sadat's tomb, vyhich was surrounded hy wreaths of pink, red and purple carnations and roses. A gas flame burned in a cast iron vase atop a marble column behind the tomb. 
Hundreds of soldiers and police stood guard in the sandy dunes around the parade ground where the tomb is located. Armored per-

Draper urges pullout ; Lebanese arrest refugees 
BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) Lebanon's army rounded up dozens of people at a Palestinian refugee camp yesterday in the second day of a sweep it says is aimed at pacifying West Beirut. 
But Palestinians say the army wants to terrorize them and drive them out ofthe country. 
Israeli officials in Jerusalem, meanwhile, said were told by U.S. envoy Morris Draper that Syria wants Israeli forces who invaded Lebanon four months ago to leave 

Jack Daniels  $7.99  
Jim Beam  $5.49  
Jose'Cvervo Tequila  $6.99  

Frangelico $11 .49 Southern Comfort $6.49 Steel Schnapps $6.99 
Fire Bailers 
Bacardi 151~ $8.59 Wild Turkey 101 $&.99 Everclear 190'­(grain alcohol) $8.99 J W Oant 100" $6.59 
Wine- 
J. Roget Champagne 750 Ml  $1.99  
Riunite lambrusco 750 Ml  $1.99  
Ronifato Bianco 1.5l  $1.99  
~  

Bar Stockers 
Bellows Gin 1.75 $9.99 Calvert Gin 1. 75 $9.99 Macintosh Scotch 1. 75 $11.99 Kanchatka Vodka 1. 75 $8.99 lord Calvert 1.75 $9.99 
Shooter Specials (750 Ml) 
sonnel carriers mounted with machine guns were parked at the entrance to the parade ground. 
The ceremony was private. Offi­cial state ceremonies marking Sadat's death are scheduled for today. Yesterday was a national holiday recalling Egypt's recapture of the Suez Canal in the 1973 war with Israel. The war was launched by Sadat. 
before Syria's army pulls out. But the officials called the Syrian message an "opening position" that could be negotiated. 
Draper is trying to arrange a pul­lout ofboth Syrian and Israeli troops to avoid the possibility of another outbreak of fighting between the two countries. Israel still has the bulk ofits invasion force in Lebanon and Syria has an estimated 30,000 troops in Lebanon. They entered the country to police a cease-fire that ended the 1975-76 Lebanese civil 
war. 
"We must clean Beirut of all 
arms," said Lebanese Defense Minis­
try spokesman Maj. AtefTorbay after 
the latest sweep at the Bourj el­
Barajneh camp. 
Torbay said he did not know how 
many people in west Beirut had 
been arrested or where they were 
being taken. Police sources said 250 
had been picked up but one 
diplomat put the number at 44. 
Asked about illegal aliens, many of 
whom have worked in Beirut for 
years, Torbay said "They will be 
deported." 

The Observer Thursday, October 7, 1982 -page 5 

Audience applauds 
Reagan tells republican to 'shQt up' 
WASHINGTON (AP)-President 

Reagan, flushed with anger, told a 
Republican congressional candidate 
to "shut up" yesterday after being 
repeatedly interrupted with the ac­
cusation that he had abandoned con­
servative causes. 
"I don't know who the two ofyou 
are, but you haven't said a word 
that's true yet," Reagan told the can­
didate, Gary Richard Arnold ofSanta 
Cruz, Calif., and an unidentified man 
who applauded Arnold's remarks. 
For more than five minutes, Reagan defended himself against Ar­nold's charges as they stood 25 feet apart in the ornate East Room of the White House. Arnold was among about 90 GOP candidates invited in for a series ofpolitical briefings and a presidential pep talk. 
After Arnold interrupted him more than a half-dozen times and refused to let him finish an answer, Reagan lost his patience and shouted, "Shut up. Look." 
Arnold sat down shortly after­wards as the president was ap­plauded by the audience. 
The incident began as Arnold, a 
businessman challenging Rep. Leon 
Swedes attack unidentified submarine 
BERGA NAVAL BASE, Sweden (AP) -Forty Swedish vessels and a fleet of helicopters ,yesterday tightened their net around a sub­marine believed to be a Soviet-bloc vessel lurking near a top secret naval base. 
The navy dropped seven depth charges and threatened to sink the sub if it tries to break out of the Swedish trap. 
Naval officials speculated the uni­dentified vessel -believed to be hiding in a narrow, 12-mile-long channel in waters south of Stock­holm -might be a small, new spy sub, possibly remote-controlled and without a crew. 
Sweden has refused to speculate on the nationality of the intruder, but newspapers have said the vessel wa.'i believed to belong to a Warsaw Pact nation. perhaps the Soviet Uni­on or Poland. 
The Kremlin, in its first comment on the incident. said the sub saga may be a hoa..x designed to disrupt Scandinavian-Soviet ties. 
The dramatic sub hunt near the :vlusko naval ba.<>c 18 miles south of Stockholm is the most serious naval incident since October 1981, when a Soviet submarine U-137 ran aground close to the main southern navy base at Karlskrona. 
Yesterday the navy deployed coa.<;t guard commandos and army troops near the search zone to bolster the fleet of hunters, includ­ing a submarine salvage vessel and 10 helicopters. 
"If the suspected submarine tried to break out. we might resort to more drastic methods including sinking it," Navy Capt. Cay Holmberg said. 
"Our goal is to force the sub­marine to surface undamaged," said Holmberg, a veteran anti-submarine warfare specialist. 
"We mean business now. The ves­sel will be identified and then turned away. Our policy not to harm the crew must not be interr>reted as a weakness," he added. 
Since the sub "'as ·~t spotted Friday, 25 depth ch.1rp ·lave been dropped. 
He did not say how sub might 

try to escape, but it was presumed 
he meant the vessel might try to ram 
through nets and wires that have 
been dropped into Holms Bay, 
which is 6'; feet to 14' feet deep. 
Panetta, D-Calif.. rose from his back­row chair as Reagan spoke and said, ":vir. President, you have given us the largest tax increase ...in the United States history ..." 
Two or three members of the audience tried to shove him down into his seat, but Arnold persisted. 
"We do not have the president supporting the presidential program. The Soviets have a higher increase in trade. The Soviets get the wheat and Americans get the shaft. We have a Tylenol taxation situation here, and we have a Reagan-mortis setting into the nation's body politic." 
He complained that Republicans 
such as himselfwho opposed the tax 
increase have been denied GOP 
campaign funds. 
Reagan tried to rebut the charges 
with arguments, and at one point he 
tried humor. "I thought this was for 
Republican candidates." 
The president said the tax in­
crease "that we reluctantly sup­
ported in order to get continued 
reductions in spending was not the 
largest tax increase in history. A 
third of it was our promise to start 
trying to collect money that is owed 
by taxpayers who are ducking their 
taxes and that we're trying to get." 


RESTAURANT 
15 REASONS: 
Broiled Seafood Platter Charbroiled Halibut Steak Charbroiled Salmon Shrimp De Johnge Charbroiled Swordfish Walleye Pike 
Red Snapper 
Trout Ala Mer 
Stuffed Flounder 
New England Scrod 
Rock Lobster 
Pan Fried Rainbow Trout 
Gulf Coast Shrimp 
Stuffed Shrimp 
Pan Fried Frog Legs 
5:30 Nightly All Day Sunday 100 Center Complex 
700 L.W.W., Mishawaka 259-9925 

The audience whistled and roared applause. 
"I don't know what you've been reading," he told Arnold, "but you don't know what you're talking about ..." 
The incident overshadowed 
Reagan's speech, in which he said, "I 
believe ...that today, America is 
stronger than it wa.<> two years ago, 
stronger economically, militarily, 
and yes, even morally." 
Arnold told reporters outside the White House that "Reagan has lost touch with Reaganomics. Reagan is not Reagan....Somebody has to say that the emperor has no clothes." 
White House deputy press secretary Larry Speakes said after­ward that Reagan asked the name of the man who interrupted him. "It seemed a bit out of the ordinary," Speakes said of the incident. "The president responded with his usual eloquence." 

,~l''', ''''"'"'''''',,,,,,,,,,,'",,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,:,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,'"'~,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,\.11 
llll II  1s com1rg to llll NOTRE DAME !.i  
Don't Miss Your Charce  
for Front Row Seats ! ! !  
Ticket Lottery 7:30pm  
Thursday, October 7,  Corcert  
••••  Laforture Ballroom  Nov. 8 ••••  

:::: :;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 




WAsHiNGTON INTERNsHi 
J,;r11ors 0' Sen1or~ .v:~r, CJ :3 0 i1vera(Je :nterPStPCJ 1n Cor,(J'PSs1 E;.,rn 1F3 crPCllts on Cap1tol H1l1 
• Un1que Internships based on your ,nterests Work w1th members of Con­qress 1n the1r off1ces anu on the1r com­m ttees 
• Sem1nars w1th 1ead1nrJ government ex1-1erts focus1ng on current pol1cy 1ssue's 
• Wash1ngton Faculty headed by the cha1rman of the Congressional Intern Adv1sory Counc1l 
·Discussion Groups to share 1nfor­mat1onand opm1on~ w1th fellow student part1c1pants from around the country 
Fil1ng deadline tor Semester 
II November 1 For appl1cat1ons and ,nformat1on 
Wash1ngton Leg1slat1ve Internship Program College of L1beral Arts Room 302 725 Commonweafth Avenue. Boston. MA 02215 61 7 353-2408 
Rhonda Reagan, the 18-year-old widow ofMarine Cpl. David L. Reagan, is banded the flag that covered his coffin at his burial Tuesday. Reagan, part ofa peace-keeping force sent to Lebanon last week, was killed Thursday when an artillery shellaccidentally exploded. -(APPhoto) 
~---------~-----~---­
Business & Technology_Thu_rsda_y,o_cto-ber_7,_198_2_pag_e6 

' 
i 
I :. 
f 
l 
i 
; 
' 
I 
I 
! 
! i· 
i 
I 
i 
I 
! 
I t 
EconomicUpdate 
Domestic automakers'September car sales fell 
5.8 per cent from the same month a year earlier, industry officials reported in Detroit They also reported that the 1982 model year turned out to be the poorest for U.S. companies in 21 years. The five major U.S. producers said they sold 488,452 new cars last month down from 518,522 a year earlier. Sales ofimported cars showed an increase over the same period but were down to their lowest level for a model year in four years. Importers reported 182,248 cars sold in September, up 9.2 percent from 168,845 in September, 1982. Imports' market share for this month also fell to 27.2 from the August record of32.7percent. However, they had held only a 24.3 percent share in September oflast year. -AP 
all Street Update 
The stock marketran up its second biggest gain ever Wednesday in a new outburst of buying by investing institutions expecting lower interest rates. The Dow Jones average of 30 in­dustrials jumped 37.07 to a 14 month high of944.26. The gain was surpassed in Wall Street annals only by a 38.81-point rise on Aug. 17. In the last eight weeks, the DowJones industrials have climbed 167 points, seemingly foreshadowing an economic recovery even as most other evidence has pointed toward a deepening recession. Analysts said a drop in some money-market interest rates helped touch offthe buying spree. When the rate on federal funds -short· term loans between banks -dropped as low as 8 percent, invest­ment professionals evidently took it as a sign that the Federal Reserve had decided to encourage further declines in rates. . AP 
' 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 
~ BOSTON BUS t ~ SIGN-UPS ~ 
1Thursday, Oct. 7 7-Spm at Lafortune f 
\ Total price is SII0 round trip ~ SSO non-refundable deposit required 
~ 
1Bus leaves N.D. ~ on Oct. 22 
i 
i 
\ 
)
i 
\ ~ ANY QUESTIONS CALL Mike 277-3276 ~ BOSTON OCTOBER BUS 
~ 
i i 
~ ~ 
i 
i 
i 
~ ~ 
i 
~ 
i 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~-! 


Foreign internships 
AIESEC offers experience 
By ALEX SZIL VAS 
B&TEdttor 
Ifyou are interested in developing your leadership abilities while gaining some practical business ex­perience, you may want to explore AlESEC. 
AIESEC (a French acronym for the 
Association oflnternational Science, 
Economics, and Business Students) 
is a student-run non-profit organiza­
tion seeking to promote internation­
al awareness and cooperation. Its 
specific goals are to identify and 
train a select group ofstudents with 
outstanding leadership potential in 
business and related fields. 
AIESEC operations involve over 30,000 students at 400 universities in 59 countries. In the United States, AIESEC committees are located at over 60 academic institutions. 
Foremost among AIESEC's Inter­national development programs is the trainee exchange. Each year AIESEC-U.S. places over 300 foreign students in American companies for internships lasting from two to 18 months. An equal number of 
American students are placed abroad. 
The AIESEC local committee at Notre Dame managed to place nine foreign students in South Bend last year with such firms as Uniroyal, Crowe Chizek and Co., and Memorial and Saint Joseph's Hospi­
•'The aft-encompassing 
purpose ofAlb~EC is experience ' ' 

tals. Meanwhile four Notre Dame students spent from eight to twelve weeks in Italy, West Germany, Iceland and Finland. 
The national organization awards credits to local committees on the basis of performance and achieve· ment. Each credit allows the local committee to place one student 
..JJ•==="Papa& Mama Do The COQking":===ll\ Francesco's Famiglio 277-6155 Restaurant 277-6156 
featuring 
FOUR SEASONS PIZZA 
Tile Original Southern Recipe Lasagna, Home-made Spaghetti, . . . Chicken Cacciatori, Veal Parmigiana All Vanettes of SandWiches 
(Francesco was chejfor Holy Cross Fathers for 21 yrs.) 
1636 N. Ironwood .....----~"WE DELIVER"
\=:==~.Proprietor: Francesco c=.at~a:n;za:nri"thi;;;;;;=' 

Dine among the antiques and enjoy our view of the new downtown! 
Reservations Appreciated 234-9000 121 South Niles South Bend 

1Eueruhn~u llllltlrnmt Tonight after 9pm 
.-~. ' 
• 2 for 1 Mixed Drinks * • 75>& Domestic Beer (cans) • 

*Artie's 
1J
a: 1-------ND 
a~ 
Cleveland Rd. 
c. 
ca
... 
" 
abroad. Aside from these credits, the number of students which a local committee can place overseas is based on the number of interships the committee finds for foreign stu­dents. In order to get a company to employ a foreign intern, "We have to sell AIESEC to them," Julie Glasgow, public relations director for AIESEC­Notre Dame said. "We have to familiarize them with our organiza­tion and with the quality of people which they would be hiring." 
The procedure for being placed in a foreign internship is highly com­petitive. Each local committee ranks its members based upon the opinion ofits Board ofAdvisors. The profiles of these members are then for­warded to the central organization. It is here that members are matched up with available internships on the basis of their ranking by the local committee and the number ofinter­nships the local committee has won. 
But there is more to AIESEC than the foreign trainee exchange program, Glasgow explained. "The all-encompassing purpose ofAIESEC is experience," she stressed. "and you gain that whether you get a traineeship or not." 
"You don't have to be a business major to join," she continued. "You just have to identity a part ofAIESEC that you want to work for. Everyone involved contributes something to a committee and in the same way they gain from their involvement." 

Southpaws prone to disorders 
From Discover News Seroice 
Left-handed people are more prone to learning disorders than the right -handed. 
The reason, scientists believe, is that left-handedness is sometimes the result of prenatal damage to the brain's left hemisphere, which con· trois the right side of the body; be­cause the left hemisphere is the center of language function in most people, learning disabilities as well as left-handedness may result from its impairment. 
Two neurologists now report that left-handed people are also likelier to suffer from various immune­system disorders of the gut ­Crohn's disease (a form ofileitis), ul· cerative colitis and celiac disease ­as well as migraine headaches and a kind of hypotheroidism called Has­himoto's disease. 
Writing in a recent issue of the 
Proceedings of the National 
Academy of Sciences, Dr. Norman 
Geschwind of Boston's Beth Israel 
Hospital and Dr. Peter Behan ofGlas­
gow University suggest that left­
handedness and immune diseases 
are linked by a shared biological fac­
tor: the male hormone testosterone. 
Geschwind says there is strong experimental evidence for the no­tion that an abnormally high level of testosterone in a fetus causes left­handedness by delaying the migra­tion of nerve cells to the left hemisphere during brain formation. Testosterone also suppresses the thymus, the gland that activates the body's defense system. 
But Geschwind offers some com­fort to the world's southpaws: The great majority ofleft-handers do not have these diseases. 


Thursday, October 7. 1982-page 7 




Editorials 

Mutual's multicasts: rebirth of radio 
In this, the age of video, we often overlook wants to pick up. the advances being made in radio. "In the old days, we had to buy telephone 
Uke television, radio has entered the world lines from the phone company," explainsjohn ofsatellite technology, and nowhere have the Chanin, one of Mutual's vice-presidents. innovations meant as much to broadcasters "They cost us 32 cents per mile, per hour. And and listeners alike as at the Mutual Broadcast­the quality just wasn't that good. If you ingSystem. wanted to send a football game, for instance, to some stations, and the hourly news to others, you had to get two sets of lines. With
Skip Desjardin 
the satellite, we've eliminated both of those problems. We transmit top quality sound
On the Media directly to stations -with no static or inter­
ference. And we can now send more than one 
program at a time." Organized in 1934 when stations such as Mutual's potential is growing fast. From the 

WGN in Chicago and WOR in New York present three channels, plans are to broaden banded together to supply common program· programming to take up as many as ten dif­ming, Mutual was one of the giants of radio's ferent channels at the same time. "Golden Age." "That way," Chanin continues, "if 100 sta­
Inevitably, television eclipsed all radio net­tions want news, they take channel one. If I 00 works when it captured the hearts and im­others want a talk show, they take channel aginations of Americans in the 1950's and two. And so on." 60's, and Mutual fell on some not-so-golden The multicast system opens unlimited pos­times. sibilities for the network. Slowly, cautiously, 
But now, the company has returned to the they are beginning to explore them all. forefront. Its Project Satellite has once again "We have invaded the youth market recent­established Mutual as a leader in the ly," Chanin says. "Last year, we had a 24 per­broadcasting industry. cent increase in revenue from the youth 
The concept is simple. The network has market. That's a real upswing compared to the provided free satellite dishes to about 650 af­other networks." filiate stations. Mutual programming is fed As radio audiences, like those in cable 
over several channels simultaneously. Each television, continue to be fragmented, Mutual station has the option of what program it is making strides to reach as many different 
P.O. Box Q Editorial thwarts driue 
Dear Editor, en with arthritis, cancer, or cystic fibrosis? 
Monday's editorial, "For Only Two Bucks, The fact is, Mr. McGinn and Mr. Higgins, It's A Bargain," made a complete farce ofthis your "principles" are not principles at all. year's campus-wide United Way Drive. They are only excuses for not giving to what Placing imaginary quotes into the mouths of is clearly a worthwhile charity organization. john Bardsley and Tom Bogen, the editorial In your subtle byline, you put ''guilt com­described the United Way as nothing more plex" as the reason for writing your check to than "awarding trips to Disneyland" to the the United Way. But you are mistaken; it is 
dorms with the best response, and picking not those who give who have "guilt com­up tips from the fund-raising efforts of plexes," but those who do not. The dorm rep "Marcello, Giancana, and Hoffa.'\ from P.E. who rallied her dorm to give 90 
How ridiculous to make fun ofa good-will percent has no "guilt complex." The dorm organization like the United Way. What are rep from Grace who rallied his dorm to give we to expect from the Observer when it because he knew what the United Way had comes time to talk about other. worthwhile done for his pqlio stricken mother has no organizations like the World Hunger Coali-"guilt complex." Tom Bogen and john tion, or Pax Christi? Perhaps Mr. McGinn and Bardsley who have. worked their hardest to Mr. Higgins could write a piece on how fun-rally and organize the ND community to ny the retarded people from Logan Center give have no "guilt complexes." The only look. ones with "guilt complexes" are those like 
Ofcourse; such abuse is justified because yourselves who go out of their way to write McGinn and Higgins (as well as many before editorials which can only do one thing: deter them) have managed to make the United people from giving to the United Way. Way to appe~r to be anything but a The sad thing, Mr. McGinn and Mr. Hig­worthwhile organization. The underlying gins, is that it is not I, nor the dorm reps, nor theme to their argument is that because the john and Tom who suffer because of your United Way drive uses "pressure tactics," it words. The only ones who suffer are those in is anything but a charity: "I can't give to the the St. joe area who depend on the United United Way ...it's a matter of principle." Way for help. You, and those like you, have 
Since when was organizing the campus in -succeeded in thwarting the United Way the most effective way possible using drive. Last year the ND community con­"pressure tactics"? I suppose you and your tributed 74 percent; this year, only 61 per­"principles" would rather see a fish bowl set cent was given. The 8000 member ND out in LaFortune, or maybe someone sport-student body has fallen short of its S10,000 ing a Santa Claus suit and ringing a bell in goal, a drop in the bucket when you con­front of the South Dining Hall. sider that Notre Dame's 750 member faculty 
What do "principles" do for the Red staff contributes $I 30,000 to the drive, and Cross, Big Brothers/Big Sisters, and the Boys those "non-domers" from St. joe county give Club of America' How much equipment for ll2,000,000. Less people gave this year than therapy and recreation will ''principles" buy ever and I think that you can take some of for the YMCA, or Logan Center? How many the credit. Congratulations! housing programs will they provide? How Brian Crouth much comfort will they give to those strick-St. Ed's Hall 


'J!1f1-opc..~~-~~ 
~)twr 


A rocky road 
types ofaudiences as possible. 
"In the old days, network radio dominated," Chanin recalls. "They provided entertainment and personalities. But TV took the per­sonalities away. Radio became more locally­oriented. Then music began to move over to the FM band, and AM stations needed new kinds ofprogramming." 
The problem arose in that local stations could not afford to fill large segments oftime. That's where Mutual has made its comeback. 
They have been covering Notre Dame foot­ball for 15 years, and just signed an agreement to broadcast the Irish games for five more years. They provide NFL games, bowl games, ~olf. and basketball ~ames as well. The news 

department offers two newscasts an hour, as 
well as ·a number of other special programs. 
Mutual is the home of the king of night-time 
talk shows, Larry King. 
"We're not. done yet, either," says Chanin. "We are almost ready to put an uplink here at Notre Dame. We could have had it this year, but we just weren't satisfied with the equip­ment. Itwill be perfected in 1983, and we'll be able to send football, basketball -even some Midwest news stories -directly onto the satellite from here." 
Radio is far from dead, despite the excite­ment and innovation in the other media. And Mutual's resurgence is proof. 
HEY, are you THINKING out there? It is very discouraging to walk across campus and catch glimpses of Macho Man, Chic Woman and Snobby Intellectual. I feel like stopping dead in my tracks and screaming out, "Hey you guys, are you Chic Woman, joe Cool, and Snobby Intellectual? Are you thinking for yourselves?" 
David M. Schorp 

Chautauqua in Faith 
Fraternities and sororities of most big schools are dominated by "Preppy Materialist", who is a supermutant of Macho Man or Chic Woman, with Snobby Intellec· tual. Instead ofexemplifying brotherhood and fostering true comradarie, very often "fraternities" are the epitome of material mis­guidance. If refusing to think for themselves, members might hide their insecurities in numbers, assume the "correct" appearance and mannerisms, and then begin looking down upon those not oftheir social elite. Frats are a· good example of the trap our need for attention and security will lull us into. How great is the amount of potential wasted on so· cia! status, money, sex, and other misguided "manners ofbeing." 
There is both an easy and a hard way of seeking happiness. Faith is the hard way. To quote a priest, "...our world is struggling to believe only in the power of man. The greatest duping of people today is the idolatry that we can build a tower ofBabel that will save usfrom all evil. Ourfaith is in romanticism (in a bad sense of the word) wherein one believes that all suffering is 

meaningless. Man's basic search is for meaning -the emptiness of meaning is an 'eternal death.' jesus taught us, on fbe con­trary, that there is meaning (life) even in suffering." 
Faith calls us to become aware ofourselves in relation to the others around us, and in doing so, to become open and vulnerable to our own insecurities, and conscious of the mistakes we make. This is a frightening responsibility to assume! And this respon­sibility, this hardship never stops, as we are challenged each and every day, minute-by· 
minute, to admit our imperfections and become more humble, serving, but happy persons. The upward spiral of faith requires effort in the climbing. 
At about this particular time ofour lives we 

students are confronted with the notion, "I am 
about to learn the tools I will need the rest of 
my life to serve society. Which vocation shall! 
choose?" Isn't it inevitable that we go through 
a period ofintense consternation as we try to 
figure out for ourselves, amid all possible, 
wide open alternatives, how to "love the 
world"? The sooner we find an answer, the 
better. For if we do not know, might we have 
to cope with a mid·life "identity crisis"? (Or 
else, spend the rest of our lives in "quiet 
desperation?") Can you imagine God saying, 
"You can pay me now, or you can pay me 
later"? 
When my ways are fixed, it is a very hard, 

lengthy process for me to change. To abandon 
the thoughts and actions I am used to, and to 
assume new ones, requires in itself security, 
strength, faith, and God's grace. As any ac­
complishment is only as fulfilling as the effort 
necessary in its achievement, the road to 
happiness is a rocky one. 


Editorial Board 
Department Managers 
Tbe Obrerver is an independent newspaper published by the students of the 
Editor-in-Chief. ............................. Michael Monk 

Business Manager .............................Tony Aiello Managing Editor................Ryan Ver Berkmoes
Untversity of Notre Dame dL• Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily 

Controller .............................................Eric Schulz 
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The nt.'WS i~ report· 
Executive News Editor......................... Kelli Flint 

Advertising Manager ....................... Chris Owen
cd as accurately and as obj<Xtivdy as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of 
SMCExecutive Editor............Margaret Fosmoe 

ProductionManager..................Maura Murphy
a maJority of the Editorial Board. Co.nmentaries, opinions and letters are the views 
Sports Editor ...................................Chris Needles 

Circulation Manager ..........................Ray Inglin 
of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and 
Editorials Editor .............................Paul McGinn 

Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley
the frtt expression of varying opimons on campus, through letters. ii encouaged. 
Features Editor ...................................Tari Brown 
Photo Editor ...................................Rachel Blount 

P.O.Box q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Founded November 3, 1966 
-r ·~ ----.-~-~--~----.--.----~----------------~--------.---~----------------------------------------------~..........~~-.~............~..........................~----........................~----~------..~~~------------------~------..........~....~..-.--~------~..............~--~~-----.----~.. 
~ 
::r" 
(t) 
0"' 
~ 
.; 
<: 
(t) 
1-t 

~ 


g~ c:
:::t c
0 0 
:::J ~
g.
.;p :::J • 
CD (I) 
S. n> 0
CZ> ..... 
: 1\) 0 


=-o :-1 
f3~ 

We Never Run Out =r ~ 
t: 
1-t Corrpare Ou• t:-••.•.:s Including Ice, Cups and Don't Forget Deposit Charges!!! rll 
0. 

UNITED ''THE BEER CO· ~ 
0 
n
,.....
Take Eddy St. South from campu·s-over the bridge-Now count 5 stoplights-Past new police & fire station-Cross R".R. & turn right-0 0' 
('b
YOU HAVE ARRIVED!! CornerSampJe & ~hapin 287-1067 1-t Early Birds Every Saturday Mornmg Early Birds >I 
,_.
SPECIAL PREMllJM TO FIRSIDOZEN NOTRE DAME CUSTOMERS 
\0 00 N 
I 

Thursday, October 7, 1982-page 9 
The Observer will ac~ept classifieds Mon­day through Fnday. 10 a.m. to 4.30 p:m However. classif1eds to appear 1n the next 1ssue must be received by 3 p.m. the busmess day pnor to 1nsert1on. All class1f1eds must be prepaid. 
e1ther in person or through the mail. 



Classifieds 
NEED RIDE TO LITTLE ROCK OR WILL PAY BIG MONEY FOR 4 PENN NEED THREE GA TICKETS FOR MIAMI WOULD LIKE TO TAKE SON TO SEE DAN KEUSAL AND FRIENDS AT THE MEMPHIS for October Break. Can leave STATE GA TIX. CALL 312-565-5959 CALL PAT 277-1836 HEY! I NEED
NOTICES 

NO WIN BEFORE WE MOVE FROM NAZZ FRI. OCT 8 10 P.M FEATURING: 
as early as Wed. mght. Will share dnv~ng, COLLECT AND ASK FOR STEVE THREE GA TICKETS roR MIAMI SOUTH BEND. IF YOU HAVE 2 GA TIX JOHN MCEACHEN MIKE THORTON usual. Call Greg 234-2456 LONGLEY. 
TO THE NO-MIAMI GAME, PLEASE ANN BERNERS DEBBIE HILL ANN CALL ME AT 272-5651 AFTER 8:30 PERRIN TERRY AUSTINIS YOUR HAIR GETTING IN THE WAY N~ed JUST ONE Stud MIAMI TIK Call I NEED 2 MIAMI TICKETS AND 1 PENN $$$$DESPERATE $!!$$1~E.Eu 4 , ;:<;TO 
P.M. TONIGHT OR AFTER 5 P.M. ON Steve 8670 FRIDAY. PLEASE
OF YOUR STUDIES?? CALL MICHOLE STATE, PLEASE CALL CINDY AT 7092 MIAMI OR ARIZONA. STUD OR GA. FOR A HAIRCUT TODAY! ONLY $4 FOR 
CALL THE SMC CHIC AT 5456 AND ASK IN SEARCH OF.. One attractive GUYS AND $6 FOR GIRLS BEST TO RIDE needed for TWO to MPLS/ST. Need 4 Miami GA s Call 1225 FOR PATTY EVEN IF YOU ONLY HAVE SMC CHICK who I saw twice on Friday
HELP' I NEED UP TO EIGHT GA. S FOR CALL AFTER 3 AT 7850 
1 afternoon. riding her bike at St. Mary'sPAUL area for OCTOBER break for oc­THE ARIZONA GAME. WILL PAY ANY 
tober break Will pay usual Call Phil or Need 3 or 4 GA's for ARIZONA game. College and said hi to me both times. If
REASONABLE AMOUNT. CALL MIKE
WORD PROCESSING SYSTEM $2995 Lou at8760. Please call Tom -3360 WILL TRADE 2 MIAMI GAS FOR you think you re her, PLEASE call 3434 or 
AT152064K Microcomputer,letter quality printer. 

ARIZONA GAS. CALL GARY 4586 8904 and ask for Chuck. word process1ng software. CP/M. Bas1c. 
Wanted: A Ride to Golden. Colorado for WANTED: 2 Miami GA·s CALL: Vince Need Miam1 student & GA tix! Call Mike-· 

Call 277-7720 Break. Call Mike at 8435 x3155 HELP!! DESPARATELY NEED 2 OR 4 1608··$$$ 
ARIZONA GAS. FAMILY WILL VERY IMPORTANT WINDSURFING NEED CREDIT? Information on rece1ving MARKETING COORDINATORS NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S NAME YOUR SACRIFICE ME IF I DONT GET ANY CLUB MEETING. 7PM THURS. 
my 83-year -old grandmother and two
Visa, Mastercard, with no credit check PRICE. CALL 3242 CALL MATT at 1489. LAFORTUNE. All interested are inVited,
NEEDED: Pos~ion inwolves marketing nuns need 3 GAs lor the Arizona game. 

Other cards available. Free brochure. Call bring tObucks.f'la. trip. concessiOn stand 
and promoting high quality ski and beach 

Don't disappoint 3 Irish-Catholics. This IS trips on campus. Earn commission plus
Personal Credit Service: (602) 946-6203 WANTED: 4 GAs for Penn State game I NEED 1 STUDENT TICKET FOR MIAMI and general info. c·mon. take a break
lor real. Call 3773. Ext. 3648. FREE TRAVEL. Call Summit tours, 800· Will pay big bucks. Call collect. Steve FOR MY CRAZY LITTLE SISTER CALL from studies for a few. and DO IT ON A 
325>04.:!_9 Longley at 312-565·5959, ext. 2081. ANN 1292. NEED 1 STUDENT TIK FOR MIAMI WINDSURFER! Lake Michigan beach cottage 30 mi. from 
ooooOoOooo•OO::-•~O~•o•OO••oooooooooooOOOO•••OOoOOo 000 00o GAME. PLEASE CALL ANN AT 8001 I!NO Sleeps 12 Fireplace Outdoor bar­'RICH ALUNUS Wftl-P.AY ANY PRICE NEED ONLY ONE GA to MIAMI game! I WILL PAY $50.00 FOR 2 MIAMI GA'S. beque Ideal for houseparties $150 3 day 
FOR MIAMI TICKETS. CAtti)A.NIEL R. GOOD$$! Dave 8296 CALL MARY BETH x7956 NEED ANY KIND OF PENN STATE TIX STRANGERS IN THE NIGHT, ex­weekend phone 616 469 0148 
(617) 492-8400. . . CALL MEG-7628 changing glances Wondering through the 
!NEED TICKETS FOR THE MIAMI HELP I need two GAs for the ARIZONA night, what were the chances .. HERPES FACTS booklet $2 Box 4682, 
game PLEASE call Sheri 4431 So Bend. IN 46634 
HELP! IS ANYONE GOING TO GAME. CALL 277-1709 FOR SALE MIAMI STU TIX-20. 288-8402 
SYRACUSE FOR FALL BREAK? I NEED 

A RIDE AND WWILL HELP SHARE GAS FOR SALE: 2 ARIZONA STUDENT TIX FEMALE RELATIVES WILLING TO STRANGERS IN THE NiGHT, ex­NEED A RIDE TO BUFFALO OVER ETC.. PLEASE CALl CHRIS AT 2703 35 DOLLARS OR BEST OFFER CALL SLEEP AROUND FOR MIAMI GA'S NEED 1 OR 2 MIAMI TICKETS CALL changing glances Wondering through the FALL BREAK--WILL PAY CALL ROB SCOTTII60. CALL ROBO AT x232-4731 ANYTIME n1ght. what were the chances ... 
····························································· LOU 159.$$
6721 
NEED RIDE OR RIDERSTOTAMPA· ST. PETE AREA FOR BREAKCALL., NANCY PENN STATE TICKETS needed for DESPERATELY NEED 2 G.A.·s FOR

Experienced Typist WILL DO TYPING parents. Call 4624. 
3397 EITHER MIAMI OR ARIZ. CALL JIM 6811 D.C. Club!! Sign-ups for the October
Help! 90yr. old grandma &her father want REASONABLE RATES-CALL 287-5162 Break Bus will be Sunday. October 1Oth into par· ty & see NO Fball need2
Wanted: Miami GA'a. Cell2t7-3538. NEED: 2 GA's Any. Home Game.KEN LaFortune Ballroom from 7-9 p.m. $75.00
GA&tSiud lxs for MIAMI& 2Stud txs for­STUDENT REP NEEDED to promote our 
1722 1 ARIZ. STU. TICKET FOR SALE $35 round·trip must be paid in advance. East
PENN STCALL MATT at 1581annual Spring Break trips to Florida and 
Need GA's to Mial'l)i, Arizona or Penn St. CALL DAN 1853 Coast T ailgater on Greenfield before the our Winter Ski trips. Reps. receive FREE Ni:e62~4C3A'~Mi~;;;ii<eN'1722
· TRIPS plus commission. Call or write: 
Call 5268 (SMC) Miami game!! Be there! 
DESPERATE: I NEED2-4 PENN STATE COASTAL TOURS, INC.• PO. Box 68. 
Wanted: Ride to lndpls. on Fri. afternoon NEED 2 MIAMI STUDENT TICKETS! NEED Miami GA's Call 277-7529,277· GAS RIGHT NOW--WILL PAY$$$ CALL
Oak Forest.IL604S2. (312) 535-3212. 
Oct. 8. Call Heather (SMC) 5.515 or Terri CALL MICHELLE 37t3 7057,or Connie 255-2988 JIM 3132 NOW-PLEASE!!! 
HELP WANTED: The Observer is looking (SMC) 4127 
for Tuesday and Friday afterooonTYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 

DESPERATELY NEED GAs FOR MIAMI. 2 Miami Tix 50 yd. Line!! Best offer 277­
VOLUPTUOUS LITTLE SISTER has dayeditors for the Saint Mary·s office. need ride to detroit area or e. lansing for SUE 277-3759. 6646 
never seen an N.D. game! Her LAST and Must be available noon to 3 p.m. Prior ex­D.C. October Break Bus Signups: Sun­oct. 8. please call rnary at smc. 284-5314 ONLY chance is PENN ST. She and her perience working on a computer terminalday, October 10 from 7·9 p.m. in 
PLEASE SELL US 2 GAs FOR MIAMI I needed: 2 Miami GAs for Mom & Dad. 
entourage need 2 GA s and 3 stud. tix. is helpful but not necessary Interested?
LLaFortune Ballroom. $75.00 roundtrip 

WILL PAY$$$$! Call Terri at 277-4820or This is their only chance to see the Irish in
Riders needed to Daytona S..Ch, we·retalking BIG$$ here!! Joe: 1652 Call Margaret at 284-4316 or leave amust be paid in advance. 
Florida or any points along the way for Nadine at 1302. action.CALL MARY 8884 or 8966 
message at the NO Obs81'118r office. 239­October Break. Call Denny at 277-0838 Need 1 Miami student ticket, Will Pay 5303 soon. Your Pnce call Dan 867 4 
HELP! I need 2 Miami GA·s. Laura 4432. I need 3 G.A.'s for PENN STATE. Were talking do or die situation. Ask for Jay at NEED 3 MIAMI GA s CALL RICH AT 277-1779 
will trade two m1am1 ga-s for two arizona T omght in the Engineering Auditorium 
LOST/FOUND Fl.oiiillA': 2 peoplelooking 1or a ride to 1650 EVENINGS ga-s 1218. 
CADDYSHACKWILL SWAP 2 MIAMI TICKETS FOR 2Ft. L8ud8rdele/Boca over October starring Bill Murray, Chevy Chase 

break Call xt421 and ask for Greg or I NEED MIAMI G.A.s!!! DAVE 1773 PENN TICKETS. CALL STEPHEN 3407. I only need one M I A M I ticket 
7.9.11 p.m. $1 

Mark. $$$$$$$$$$$$please call mike 1779 LOST: 10 bracelet of great sentimental 
I need Miami tix 3 stud. 2 G. A. Please call MIAMI MIAMI MIAMI MIAMI MIAMI 
value. engraved w1!h Bridger If found Joe8269 Desparately need TWO (2) Miam1 GAs FOR SALE:2 MIAMI GAs call John 8431 please call 232-5208. NMd ride thla weekend to MllwaukM Call John at 1462 The Junior Class presents a 
or O'hara. Call John Higgins at 287-Need 1 Miami Tic AI 1595 East coast parents need Penn St GA·s if STRANGERS OF THE NIGHT party LOST: Pa~r of ladies glasses. plastic 4186 or 239-5323 andleave amassage. Need 10 GAs for Miami and 2 St Tics you can help call Donna at 5472 SMC at GuiHppe's Friday, Oct. 8 t p.m. $4 brown frames with lint of apricot. Please HELP!! MIAMI GAs DESPERATELY with !D's.$ P S. I also need Arizona stud tix. Help I guys, $3 girls Come d,..Md-$1 oil at call 239-7164 (Kathy). '· need a ride to CINCINNATI on OCT brk NEEDED (3) $$$CALL KEVIN at1580 Steve at 1 061 the door with costume 
call TIM 1579 need 2 MIAMI TICKETS$$$$ call Joanne DESPERATE FOR 2 MIAMI GA TICK· NEED 2 GA tix for M1am1 game. If you
LOST:! MANILA FOLDER LABELED 284-4366 GERMAN CALL TOM 8711 NEED RIDE one-way from Boston to NO ETS. WILL PAY $$$. CALL MIKE AT want than $20 per t1cket, please
more 
EAST COAST TAILGATER ON GREEN· 

1475. don·t call. If you want less. call Shirley at 
on Oct.30-31. Gib-6827 Need 1 Student or GA tix. (smc)5tt5. 
FIELD THIS SATURDAY ALL D.C

239·5303.
LOST: KEY CHAIN "AIR FRANCE. 
CLUB MEMBERS SHOULD BE THEREWITH TWO KEYS ON IT. MAYBE LOST NEED RIDE to OKLA-will share $$ call NEED MIAMI and ARIZONA GAS. Call IF THEY WANT TO ABUSE BILL!! ITS

John at 1580. I need as many as possible NEEDED: Student Tix for Miami. will do
IN SENIOR BAR IF FOUND PLEASE Bob8315 WORTH IT! 
anything to get them. CALL 1623 
NEED RIDE TO NORTH CAROLINA LOST: LADIES GOLD WATCH ON FOR OCTOBER BREAK-Durham or NEEDED: YOUR MIAMI AND PENN ST parents coming to NO for parents day & 
CALL FRANCOIS AT 68 t 8. 

PERSONALS 
TIX, BIG TIME!!! CALL 1627TODAY little sister is tagg1ng along. 1need one
FRIDAY NIGHT AT GUISEPPE S. IF general vicinity.Will share usuai.Piease MARQUETTE ROADTRIP--flat trailer Miami GA or next week i"ll be back 1n sub­
FOUND PLEASE CALL x4310 SMC call Cindy 7954 t1re. fog. fog. fog. Judy's p1t stop, sa1lors I NEED UP TO THREE STUD TIX OR urban boredom! Will pay enough for you 
who defend our nation, Milwaukee, 20 LOST: A navy blue. zip down. light Wanted 2 Miami GAs Call Pete 3125, GAS TO ARIZONA AND PENN STATE to retire nch. sam 1436. Notre Dame sa1lors. Marquette "donuts··. weather jacket with a ·Sexton'label on the $$$$ Joame·s house, pillow fights tn the streets, 
WILL PAY A LOT CALL DAN 1801 FOR WOMEN ONLY

NEED MANY MIAMI STU. & GA TIX. John at 3625. RIDE NEEDED to Mlnnasotad lor Oc­DESPERATLY NEED 6 ARIZ GAS CALL KARL OR CHRIS AT 1751. boats, wind, Marquette block party, 2ND 
collar. I need it badly, if found please call morning?, late stan, ~lf-dcsuucting 
SMC/ND WOMEN S PICNIC 
tober Break. Call.Cathy, 37t3. Thanks! CALL ROB 6827 PLACE FINISH!, showers, don't cat at NEED 2 MIAMI GA S AND t STU. CALL 
Oct. 10. 12-3 p.m. Potato Creek State
LOST· 1 Introduction To Jazz notebook Angdo's, Dad strands kids a1 Angelo's,
Park U.S. 3t·S to S.R 4, turn W. 4 m1
Left at listening center Monday n1ght. Call need one LAST Miami GA call John Need MIAMI tix -Please call 1738 SUSAN AT 284-5526. . G~cntrce Pub, sleep?. cancelled races,
park on right. $2 per person -payable at
Mark 8810 8764(1ate) "family" piciUrc as drunk looks on (one of
picnic. NO­

I need MIAMI tics so BAD that it is UN­Wanted 4 tickets in a row to Anzona contact sect1on leaders by 
many), 12:~0 stan, racing to Chicago,

Oct. 6. 6 p.m. SMC -sign in at hall desks game. Call288-0955 or 277·3604.
LOST-t Adidas windbreaker Red with Anyone going to/through OKLAHOMA REAL !! call John 3460 (std or GA) boats and Dad go around and Pete and
by Oct. 6, 6p m. 

hood and stripes on sleaves. Call Mark CITY? I need a ride tor Oct break. Call RC"nt-a-car g.xs through, smoking car, 
8810 Need Miami tix Call Jim at 1654 TWO MIAMI STUDENT TIX FOR SALE: playing cards and blowing up balloons, CALL 287-3538. 
three stranded at Hoagie Heaven, PetC' to LOST: Green notebook & folder. Call the rescue, complete roadtrip eight and
NEED 1 MIAMI GA-Iittle bro·s 1st OKTOBERFEST
Steve at 1855 game'CALL CHIP3137 FOR SALE: MIAMI STU TIX. OAVE-233-one-half hours after Milwauktt 3014. 
THURS. THE nH AT SMC 
dc:panurC', sailing,sailing ocean

Rollerskate on campus!!! 3hrs. $3.50 at over tht: NEED MIAMI GA TIXSI PETE 232-1466
LOST: ONE BLUE AL300 STATS BOOK blue...
Angela 4-7 p.m 

NEED 6 TICK FOR ARIZONA GAMEBY ANDERSON ET AL. IF YOUVE Sound of Music 7 p.m Carrol Hall (also 
NEED 1 MIAMI GA Call 3137 STUDENT OR GA'S. PLEAS!': . CRAZY
FOUND ONE RECENTLY OR COULD 

shown Oct. 6) SELL ME ONE. PLEASE CALL KEITH 
CREIGHTON STUDENTS ARE FLYING
FOR SALE 

Beer Garden!!! 8-11 :30 p.m. Featuring Foolery, sir, does walk about the orb Hke attt69 
1 stu Ariz ticket tor sale. Call 1813 OUT AND WILL BE BUMMED IF THEY 
the No Problem Band. (For under 21· the sun; ff shines ell8rywhere ...
DON'T GET TO SEE THE GAME. CALL Mus1c, food. good company) For Sale: 8 Miami GAs. Call Dave 3673. RICHAT1763. 
Sale me your Miami GAs. Call Dave 3673. FOR SALE 2 MIAMI GAS CALL Success comes with quiet superiority
WORD PROCESSING SYSTEM, $2995. 

LISA;277-3196:MAKE OFFER ATTENTION LONG ISLANDERS: SIGN­
FOR RENT 
64K Microcomputer, letter quality printer. 
Congradulations to: MARK MAl Future 

word processing software. CP/M, Basic UPS FOR THE OCTOBER BREAK BUS 
I Need 2 Student tickets for the Miami NEED 6 ARIZ. GAS-DOUG at6166 Attorney General State of Texas 
WILL BE THUSDAY. OCTOB_ER 7, 7:00,Call 277-7720. 
game: Call Jeff at 6710 LAFORTUNE LITTLE THEATRE. FULL

NEED 6 GAS FOR MIAMI GAME CALL USED BOOKS Bought, Sold. Searched. AMOUNT DUE. FIRST COME, FIRST 
NEED MANY GA s for Miami, call Tim at DON-277 -4854 
SERVED

ERASMUS BOOKS. Tues-Sun, 12-6. PHILA CLUB!) BUS SIGN-UPS: TUES.
CABINS FOR RENT -45 minutes from 289-7640
1027 E. Wayne. One Block South of OCT. 12. 6:30 BADIN HALL 2) MIAMI
Notre Dame. 616-424-5817 Will pay $60 tor 2 M1ami GAs Call Eddy-Jefferson Intersection. TAILGATER-FREE 3) TIX AVAILABLE
NEED 4 GA's FOR MIAMI CALL DAVE Roberta at 6553 PITTSBURGH CLUB FALL BREAK BUS FOR NAVY GAME-contact me now
TWO APTS in one house for rent: each 277-0955
73 Triumph TR6. excellent condillon. SIGN-UPS. THURS. OCT. 7 6:30pm, Chuck 288-0725 Kerry 8021 (410 Badin) 
has LA. KT. BR: front porch: 1651175 (OR HELPI Mom & Dad STILL NEED 2 Miam1 
$3495 or best offer. Call 233-5727 LAFORTUNE LITTLE THEATER BE
320 for whole house) utilities: 718 E. Col· I NEED 2 GAs FOR MIAMI $$$$$ GAs. I'll pay YOUR PRICE just to keep fax: 234-4620 evenings. CALL SOYVIN AT 1603. them happy' Call L YN at 2773. 
PROMPT Round tnp $45.00, One way 30'/o DISCOUNT on FUJI FILMS for color $29.00. Payment must be made in full at KEENAN CHEERING SECTION-
slides. Francois 287 2057 time of reservation. NO REFUNDS. 
WISH YOU HAD MOVED OFF? APT.. NEED 1 MIAMI GA WILL PAY TOP DOL­RICH parents from Fla. want to see Jim,Tim.Craig.Jerry.John and Rich­
FULL KITCHEN. BATHRM. PARKING. LAR CALL MIKE 1770 MIAMI game. N""d 2 GA's. Call 284· Thanks for coming guys.but where was 
t 52 MIAMI GAs Best offer by Friday at BOSTON OCTOBER BUS SIGNUP IS
SAFE. 232·3477. 5050. Frank? Your support was deeply ap­
5:00. Call Anne D. x8472 THURS Oct. 7. 7-8p.m. 1n LAFORTUNE preciated! A.J 
Need 2 GAs or Student tix for Miam1 Round trip is $110. $50 NON REFUND.

Need 4 Arizona GAs 283-7970 USED 3 PIECE LIVIVG ROOM SET DEPOSIT REQUIRED. BUS leaves NO 250.00-233-2821 on the 22nd and leaves Boston on the game. Call John 8362 
Need t-4 GA's for Miami game W/trade Need three MIAMI GAs. Dad wants to SCREW THE BUS I NEED A RIDE TO 
30th. Payment 1n full encouraged. 
student tic and/or cash. Call Angie 1284. come & see Miami. his alma mater get NO.VA./D.C.? OCT. BREAK CALL JB. BEAT! Big$$$ call 2960 $65 BOSTON BUS SIGNUPS TONIGHT in
NEED 2 MIAMI GAS. CALL STEVE LaFortune 7-8 $110 rd. trip. Bring $50
WANTED 

Will swap Miami GA·s for 2 Miami student tics Call Jack 3556 Keep try1ng 
1796. 

deposit. Ready or Not--THE GOODGE IS HERENEED 4 ARIZONA & 6 PENN ST. GAS. 
Welcome Back Laura WE ALL MISSED

EAST COAST TAILGATER IS COMING YOU.--THE GANG 
CALL WOZZ AT 1850 Help! I need 1 Miami ticket' Call Ann 
SATURDAY on GREENFIELD. ALL
TICKETS j· 

SMC-5092
RIDE NEEDED TO THE NEW YORK THOSE FROM MASSACHUSETTSFOR SALE 2 MARRIED STUDENTCITY FOR OCTOBER BREAK-..·WILL 
MUST BE THERE! LEAVE WHENEVER AND WILL SHARE 
SEASON TIX. CALL 1-784-8204 VULCH needs four GAs to Anzona Call 
EVENINGSTHE USUAL. CALL CHRIS AT x3510 OR 

his brother Tim 1185 THE EAST COAST CLUBS of N.D. spon­x8573 ANYTIME. need 2 GAs for ARIZONA game. call sor a MIAMI lailgater SATURDAY. On Mark-the occupants of 713 & 712 P.E.
I NEED 2 GA'S AND 2 STUDENT TIX 
respectfully request that you take your

GREENFIELD across from SR. BARLauren (smc) 5072 FOR ARIZONA. CALL JACK-x8876. 
RIDE NEEDED TO WASHINGTON DC-­clothes with you when yoc leave. 
FOR SALE 2 Miami GA's Eric x8407 Look for flags and s1gns and listen for the FOR OCTOBER BREAK CALL BREN­
HEY all you cra~y wild people out there !! I accents See all from MASS on SAT.
NEED 1 MIAMI GA FOR LITTLE SIS need Tickets and will pay you all the

DAN ANYTIME--WILL SHARE THE 
CALL PAUL 8362 money 1 have for 2 Penn St GA's Make a HELP! Need Anzona tix for family Call THE IRISH SOCCER TEAM WANTS TOUSUAL--·7997 Fly cheap to Boston call Donna 5472
really sweet girl an offer, your mother will Katie6781 THANK ALL OF THE FANS WHO CAME
2 MIAMI GA. 35 YO L.. Best Offer. CALL SMC be proud! call very rich cindy at 2948 TO THE DAYTON GAME LAST FRIDAY WANTED. Responsible person to p1ck up 2826, 10:00 PM professiOnal couple·s children from 
NOW NIGHT YOU WERE GREAT! WE HOPE 
school 3 days/week. ,superv1se play: ap­I HAVE TWO MIAMI GAS. WILL TRADE TO SEE YOU THIS FRL FOR W MICH.
NEED 2-3 GAS FOR MIAMI PLEASE THERE ONCE WAS A GIRL FROM N.D.

px. 10 hrs/wk: 5/hr gas: car reqUired. 234-FOR TWO ARIZONA GAS. PLEASE 
CALL TERIAT277-1585 Jane Van Gilder-How can a personal ob­
4620 even~ngs CALL 3351 IF INTERESTED 
WHOSE PHONE WAS 7t83 SHE SAN FRANCISCO CLUB: I missed the 
server be left out of personal abuse? 

NEEDED GA'S SO HELL WOULDN'T meeting--please let me know what's up
NEED 2 MIAMI GA·s Call Jim at 3342 Here·s your very own. RAISE FOR THE GAME VERSUS Need 2 GA·s and 1 student tic for M1am1-Thanks, Marie 277-0487. 
I need a nde to SPRINGFIELD. IL. (along 
1-55 to St. Lou1s) W1ll share usual Can MIAMI-EE (had to make 11 rhyme. you 
I DESPERATELY NEED GA S FOR THE family up for the game know·-01ane WILL pay b1g bucks. the Columbus Club M1xer After the Game Call leave 10/20 PLEASE CALL' Let s get 
MIAMI GAME' PLEASE CALL BILL AT Please A Man parental units are very wealthy!} I need 2 M1am1 GA·s call Jim 3528 Jamie Kimmel for details ..
outta here!! 5202 (SMC) 8922 

The Observer Thursday, October 7, 1982-page 10 
Roarin' 
Good 
Pizza! 

The Saint Mary's volleyball team defeated the Indiana Univer­sity atSouth Bend Titans 15-4, 15-10, and 15-12, in an ea.sy effort. See Corinne Flores story on page 12. (Photo by Scott Bower) 

QB Campbell invaluable 
Boilertnakers dive ontopoll 

It was another week of upsets in college football last 
week. Three of the Bottom Ten teams in the country 
went down to startling ,-ictories -to the dismay of 
their tans. As a result. .\lassachusetts. Michigan, ·and 
New Mexico State dropped out of the rankings thi~ 
week. 

But there is a powerful newcomer on the scene. 
The Purdue Boilermaker~ had their backs to the wall, 
and were faced with almost inescapable victory. But 
Quarterback Scott Campbell put on an incredible per­
formance. wtth ~ome help from the Purdue special 
teams to pull defeat from the jaws ofvictorv. 
With time running out, and the Wi~(·or~sin Badgers out of time-outs, Campbell kept the haiL Had a les~­quick-thinking player been given the balL they may have tallen on it, allowing time to run out and the bal­lgame to end with Wisconsin hopelessly unable to stop the clock. 
But Campbell saw a rare opportunity, and pounced on it. He carried the ball out-of-bounds, stopping the clock. 
Enter the special teams, who sent an errant punt snap into the end zone. where Wisconsin had no choice but ~o fall on it for the winning touchdown. 
For Campbell, three cheers for intelligence above and beyond the call ofduty. For the University ofTexas, the annual Foster Brooks "Looks like a Stroh Light night" Award. 
It seems that an area along the west side of the Lon­ghorns' stadium was -for years -set aside for hand­icapped fans. In true Texas spirit, those fans have been banished to the end zone. 
In the spot where the wheelchairs once sat, a luxury 
bar and lounge have been built Now, not just anyone 
can go there to drink, mind you. No, one must pay an­
nual dues of 113,000 for the privilege of entering the 
lounge and paying S2 for a mixed drink and n for a 
beer. 

The rest of the fans, including the handicapped, are 

INTERHALL TENNIS PAIRINGS These are the draws for the third round of the NVA 
O.C. golf

tennis tournament. Results must be given to the NVA office by 5 p.m. on Wednesday, Oct. 13. Therew111 be no extensions for any reason. Both players will default any unplayed matches. 
Adv•nced Men's Singles 
tournament 

Rob Ebert v Tom Wilkas. Tom Bauer v. Juan Humbert Barry Fay v. John Ziebert. 
Nova Men's Singles Brian Kaufman v. Pat H1ckle 
this Sunday

Bill McGowan v. Randy Richter. Women'• Singles 
An Off-Campus golf tournament
Mary Easterday v. Nora Lynch. Susan Gordon v. Tncia Huberty. will be held this Sunday, October 10, Mixed Doubles 
with tee off at 1 p.m. on the Burke
Alison Yurki%Mo Ruggiero v Marya Steven­soWaMike Vanderbeck. Memorial Golf Course. Entry fee is Joanne Sw1edaWoAI Straub v Rowell Reye~.Juhe 
S5, with "refreshments" following.
Schwebel. Barry Far-Karen Nill v. Lisa Pavil% Tom W1lkas. All interested people should contact Grlld-Fac Singles Gregg Gross (287-7306) or Mark 
Chris Valenta (277-29t 4) v. Ed Mehnert (277­0473). 
Murphy (234-5414) as soon as pos­Don Castro (288-3773) v. Sue Roberts. sible. 
Bottom Ten 
not allowed to drink alcoholic beverages in the stadium. They can have ~oft urinks, however. How generou~. 
lkre. then, arc the rankings: 

1) Oregon (0-lii) Ducks didn't in ~8-7loss to llSC 
2) Memphis State (0-5) Elvis is turning over in his grave 
3) Ibe Texas States (1-9) North is 0-';, West is l-4 
4) Oregon State (0-4) chasing Oregon in the Great Whtte Northwest battle 
5) Eastern Michigan (0-4) Hurons quest for 36 straight continues 
6) Purdue (0-4) Boilers "never say live" in last-minute loss 7) Virginia (0-4) Yes, Cavaliers, the season does end eventually 8) Kentucky (0-3-1) replace Northwestern in fine Wildcat tradition 
9) Michigan State (0-4) voters consider record only -who cares about stats? 10) Tylenol (0-7) Coachesjohnson &Johnson instill killer instinct 
Also receiving votes: 

The Marines (0-1) The NFL (0-3) The Los Angeles Dodgers (88-74) 


I I I I 

OPEN FOR LU AT II A.M.! I I PIZZA DELIVERY STARTING AT 4 P.M. I I 
SMC··ND Studentchecks accepted! 
Ask about our 10 for I Club! 
-OPEN-
Mon · Fri II a.m. Sat· Sun 4 p.m. 
-CLOSED-Fri ·Sat I a.m. Sun ·Thurs II p.m. 
I 

~----------------------------­

expiPEPSI 
FREEl 

Buy any 12-14-16" pizza and get I-2 litre pop (Choice of Pepsi, Mason, Teem, Dr. Pepper, Mountain Dew,Sunkist Free with coupon 
not good with other coupons 
$, 00 OFF 
.L 16'' P'IZZQ 
not good with other existing offers 




---------,----, 
Ihe~=================================== 
Thursday, October 7, 1982-page 11





Todax 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 

Simon 
EN£!"1Y l<.tf) TYLE.!VOL, HAS A,fi?..R.IVtD AT 
NO Tl?.t-DA r'lE / 

visitors 33 Ovum

The Daily Crossword 5 Unadulter· 34 Was enthu· a ted siastic 
9 Summer 36 "-,With coolers Love" 13 Literary 37 Christmas 
conflict drinks 14 Together 39 Sweater 16 Philippine size 
Moslem 41 Famous last 17 Lively tune words 18 Perceived 42 Act the 
in theun· host 

conscious 44 Mortgages 20 Minevein 46 Wason the 21 Makelace ticket 22 Contribute 47 Mediterra· 23 Salivate nean island 25 Cozy place 49 Rich cloth 26 Fancy dive 51 A Kennedy 
Wednesday's Solution 
1017/82
©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 

~--------------~ 

· Campus
IF IT 

•3:30 
p.m. -Tennis, ND Women vs. St. Mary's College, Angela Courts 

•4 
p.m. -Rad. lab Seminar, "Those Tantalizing Triplet States: AICI, SiF2, CF2," Prot: C. Weldon Mathews, Ohio State University 

•4 
p.m. Oktoberfest Rollerskate on Campus, Angela Athletic Facility, Sponsored by SAPB, 53.50 

•6:30 
p.m. -AIESEC General Meeting, LaFortune, little Theatre 

•7 
p.m. -Engineering Careers Seminar, Dr. James Caberry, ND, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall, Sponsored byJoint Engineering Council 

•7 
p.m. -Film, "Sound of Music," Carroll Hall, SMC, Sponsored by SAPB, Sl.OO 

•7, 
9, and 11 p.m. -Film, "Caddyschack," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Junior Class, Sl.OO 

•7:30 
p.m. Business Meeting, 325 O'Shaughnessy Hall, Sponsored by Sociology Club, 

•B 
p.m. -Oktoberfest, Beer garden/music, food, Saint Mary's College, Sponsored by SAPB, S1.00 

•s 
p.m. -Lecture, Stephen DeStaebler, Annen­berg Auditorium 


T.V. Tonight 


6p.m.


ACROSS 28 Prefatory Creche statement 

an 6 month old domer.
DOWN 45 Enervate 1 Shopping 48 Hornet mecca creations 2 Exchange 50 Runners premium 52 Ballroom 3 Acquisitive dance female 53 Speech 4 Hospital impediment 
figure 54 Division 5 Bucolic word 6 Common 55-impasse 7-E. Lee (stymied) 8 Photograph· 56 Hawaiian 
er's abbr. goose 9 ldi-57 Bull: Sp. 10 Spanish 59 Old Greek lady weight 
11 Part of 60 Engage Q.E.D. 62 "-a 12 Fish Camera" 
16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 The MacNeiVLehrer Repon 16 M*A*S*H 22 Family Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 

34 Straight Talk 
16 Fame 
22 Magnum PI 
28 ]oanie Loves Chachi 
34 Sneak Previews 
28 The Star of the Family 
34 This Old House 
16 Cheers 22 Simon and Simon 28 Too Close for Comfon 34 Odyssey 16 Taxi 16 Hill Street Blues 22 Knots Landing 28 20/20 34 The Year That Time Changed 34 Inside Business Today 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 The Dick Cavett Show 16 Tonight Show 22 Quincy and McCloud 28 ABC News Nightline 34 Captioned ABC News 28 Vegas. 16 Late Night with David Letterman 
The saga of a 

~ 
... 
52 Theme 53 Jungle vines 57 Paving 
stuff 58 Torso part 61 Aims 63 Singer 
Pinza 64 Musial 65 NCO 66 Gambling 
town 67 Com­68 Tempera· 
ment 
69 Mt. Rush· more site: abbr. 

15 Duckdown 19 French painter 24 Atop, to 
poets 25 Evade 26 Sirs 27 Athenian 
square 28 Spanish 

festival 29 "-is me!" 30 lnexile 31 Gam and 
Hayworth 32 Tipsy 35 Effective 38 Downcast 40 Supported 43 Giant 
6:30p.m. 
7p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10p.m. 
10:30p.m. 
Up.m. 11:30p.m. 
Brl• 


The Irish Gardens
_&niorBar 

your Screw your Boommate Bead.quane 
Stay on campus and save $ $$ byleulng us take care of your Dower needs 
0J We'reQtitQgQin! 
C.in &Tonic SpeciQI 
BD~MO available Tonite...RII Nite!! Daily Specials!!! Dial M·U-M~ (6867)
open 9:30 -2:00a.m. 
~o place an order 


---~------------~ 
Thursday, October 7, 1982.-page 12



SJ2orts 



So far, so perfect 

Johnston kicking Irish ahead 
By TIM DOYLE Although he has earned a Johnston says. "I feel a bit of anxiety 
Sports Writer 

monogram in each of the last two before each, but I feel that helps me seasons, this is Johnston's first year kick better." 
One ofthe most crucial aspects to on scholarship. He was invited to Although the'kicker gets credit for the outcome ofa football game often join the team as a walk-on his fresh­the points, Johnston believes a key goes without notice -the kicking man year. 
to his good start has been due in part game. The man responsible for the "I always wanted to play for Notre to sophomore snapper Kevin Kelley kicking of field goals and extra 
Dame," Johnston says, "and Bob and holder Ken Karcher. "Ken's points often gets very little credit, Thomas put in a word for me." holds have been outstanding," says 
only blame. Bob Thomas, who you may recall Johnston. "With such good holds, Senior Mike Johnston ( 5-II, I84 kicked for the Irish from 1971-73, is there is no reason for me to miss. pounds), deserves a lot ofcredit for also a Rochester native and a close 
Kevin's snaps have been on the his accomplishments so far this friend of Johnston's. "Bob's father money every time." season. Johnston has been absolute­has helped my kicking game the Johnston, a chemical engineering 
ly perfect. He is 6-of-6 on field goals most," says Johnston. "He helped me major, plans on taking interviews 
and 6-of-6 on points-after­in high school and even now he next semester after football season is touchdowns. helps me." 
over. As of now he plans to be The Fighting Irish owe two of 
With only one extra point to his working in the engineering field af­
their first three victories to credit in his college career (that ter graduation.Johnston. Against Michigan, coming in his sophomore year), But if the soccer-style kicker Johnston booted three field goals Johnston admits that he was just a bit keeps up the type of performance
and two extra points, thus providing anxious about his first few kicks. 
demonstrated so far, he may end up the margin of victory. In the Michi­"I was really quite nervous for that kicking his way into professional gan State game last Saturday, he once first field goal against Michigan." football. again provided the victory margin by scoring 9 of Notre Dame's 11 
points. Johnston's performance in the 


SMC volleyball team 
Michigan State game earned him a game ball. "Without him, we may not win the Michigan or Michigan 


sweepsi.U.S.B. Titans 
State games," says Notre Dame Head Coach Gerry Faust. "Maybe we've By CORINNE FLORES shots." kind of taken him for granted, but Sports Writer Sparking. the Belles has been the he's done a super job." dynamic duo of Loret Haney and 
After three games Johnston is Victory was in the air again last Ann Boutton, scoring seven out of averaging 8.0 points a game for a to­night for the Saint Mary's volleyball eight times with the deadly "Jap" tal of 24 points. At this pace, he is team. The Belles faced Indiana Uni­play. Junior Mikey Maternowski has well ahead of Dave Reeve's record versity at South Bend in a best of 5 been slowly but surely working her pace when the latter compiled 75 series, and it took the Saint Mary's way back into the starting line up af­points by kicking in 1977. team just three games to defeat the ter her recent illness. She is 
California's Reggie jackson broke one playoff record and tied 
"I have not set a goal of breaking Titans 15-4, IS-1 0, and 15-12. progressing well and has con­
another as the Angels defeated Milwaukee 4-2. Game Three is in 
the record," says Johnston. "If I The girls presented an impressive tributed much to the team effort. 
Milwaukee tomorrow. The opening game ofthe Atlanta-St. Louis 
break it that's fine; if not, that's fine display of teamwork when they The Belles next game is this Friday 
series was postponed due to rain, and will be replayed tomorrow. 
too. I just kick whenever the came back to win by five points after at 6 p.m. against Tri-State. 
(APPhoto)
coaches tell me to. I just want to being down 5-10 in the second keep winning." game. All ofthe team members were Entering the season, the Roches­given the opportunity to play at 
ter, N.Y., native faced some stiffcom­sometime during the series. 
Notre Dame cross country
petition for the No. 1 kicking spot The Belles exhibited outstanding from freshman Hal Von Wyl. "I knew serving skills, but they created a I had to come back kicking good this little trouble for themselves by not fall," says Johnston, "because I knew moving properly. With all ofthe sub­

Women runners finish second 
that Hal was a very fine kicker." stitutions that Coach Erin Murphy 
"Mike Johnston is our No. I kick­made some team members had t t o CROSS COUNTRY -The women's cross crountry er, "says Assistant Head Coach Brian play in positions that they were un­team ran their best meet of the season last Saturday at Boulac. "Hal Von Wyl pressed him accustomed to. This caused a little Manchester College as they placed second in a very $1eve DODCOfor the job but Mike proved that he is confusion on the court, but the competitive field ofsix teams. The women finished just the No. I kicker." players adjusted well. three points behind first-place Manchester as they easi­Sports Writer 
At the beginning of the season it In viewing her team's success, ly held offthird-place St. Joseph's. was decided that Johnston would Murphy stated, "We are still trying All five ofthe Irish runners finished in the first twenty Club Comer handle short field goals, extra points to develop a more aggressive style of in the field of more than fifty competitors. Once again, and kickoffs while Von Wyl would play which we will need when we Maria Fiore led the women with a fourth place finish take care of the long field goals. get to State. We play well, but we and a time of 20:09. Anne Attea was just a second be­to settle for a 12-12 tie. However, that now has changed. have to dominate the game more. I hind in fifth place and Rose Marie Luking ( 20:36) After the first period ended with the score knotted at 
"With Mike's increased range," was pleased with our offensive at­finished tenth. Mary O'Connor, eleventh with a time of zero, the Warriors opened the scoring in the second says Boulac, "ifwe ever have to kick tack tonight, because our players 20:45, and Gina Ochsner, 21: I 7 and a sixteenth place half on two long, bizarre runs. With orJ.!y twenty a 50-yard field goal, we will send varied their shots more. We scored finish overall, rounded out the scoring for the Irish. minutes remaining, it appeared that they had the Irish Johnston out to kick it." frequently with dinks and roll Although the times were well below the women's put away. It was then that centers Brian Foley and Mike season's highs, the team was still satisfied. As club vice­Sash were able connect on a few sharp passes that led to president Luking explained, "We thought we ran really Notre Dame's first points of the day. Steve Schneider well considering the weather. The temperature was up kicked the two point conversion and the lead was cut to around 85 and the humidity was awful." 12-6. With only three minutes remaining and the game The team's tough schedule continues this weekend and his scoring streak on the line, Brian Moynihan was when the team travels to Western Michigan. able to score a solo trie to bring the score to 12-10. With time running out, Steve Schneider converted his
WATER POLO -The water polo team travelled to 
pressure-packed two point kick to tie the game at 12­
Chicago last weekend and placed third in a tournament 
12.
ofeight teams. 
Although not an addition to the win column, the rug­
After crushing Hope College 1 5-9 in their first game, 
gers were still pleased with their performance. As club
the Irish faced a Loyola team that is one of the top 
secretery John Goebelbecker said. "Despite the tie on
twenty teams in the nation. Although Notre Dame lost 
our record, we were really satisfied with our team
19-8, the eleven point difference represented the smal­
morale and our ability to come from behind."
lest margin ofvictory for Loyola throughout the tourna­
The 4-0 A side will host the Chicago West-Side Con­
ment. In fact, Notre Dame played even the second half 
dors this Saturday behind Steppan at 1I:00.
and might have won if they had not been blown out in The B side was finally able to work out their problems
the first half. In the consolation game, the Irish Saturday as they shutout the hard-hitting Marquette B
overcame a second quarter letdown to defeat Michigan team 8-0. Sophomore Tom Comer and senior Tom Fal­
12-I 1. lon both scored for the Irish B ~ide as they upped their
Club president John Smith scored ten goals during record to 1-3.
the tournament -including six in the first game -to The C team squeaked out a 6-0 thriller as time ran out
lead all Irish scorers. Player-coach Tom Austgen against Marquette's C team. Bill Cimino scored a four
chipped in with eight goals and Mike Roberts and Steve point trie and Tom Reidy added the conversion to raise
Blaha each added seven. Goalkeeper Chris Packer had 
the C team's record to 3-1.
an outstanding tourney as he turned in an unparalled 26 goalie saves in the three games. 
SOCCER -The women's soccer B team ran its
The team faces both Bowling Green and Hope Col­
record to I-3 wit two games this past week The women
lege this wekend at home in the Rockne Memorial pool. 
shutout Barnaby's ofthe Michiana Soccer League 2-0 to 
RUGBY -The rugby football club travelled to Mar· earn their first win of the season last Thursday. Claire quctte last weekend for their tougest competition of Henry had two goals for the lri~h The team was not this year. Although their undefeated record was quite as lucky on Sunday though as they lo~t ';-0 to St. preserved. a victory was not in the cards as the Irish had joe's Bank.


SeniorMikejohnston is shown in his perfect fonn as he leads the Notre Dame football team to a 3-0 record this year. In fact, johnston was given a game ball for his efforts against Michigan State last weekend. See Tim Doyle's story abor•e. (Observer Photo) 




