

, ,~enior Bar-page 7 

VOL. XVII, NO. 35 the independent ~tmknt nn,~papcr ~L·n·ing notre dame and ~aint man·~ TUESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1982 
c_ ) d . -11~--­Polish strike in Gdansk,
~~VQ .or .. _,· l ignore Communistban 
WARSAW, Poland (AP)-Found­coast at 11 a.m., and highways to the ing members of Solidarity at the area were blocked to incoming traf­Lenin Shipyard in Gdansk defied the fic, making it impossible to obtain an Communist government's new ban independent estimate ofthe number 
on strikes wi-th a sit-in yesterday, ofstrikers. demanding reinstatement of the The strike in the giant shipyard
) outlawed independent union and where Solidarity was begun in the release of union chief Lech August 1980 had been scheduled to Walesa. last only two hours. However, Wes­
Western reporters who left the tern reporters said the workers Baltic port city six hours after the decided it would continue six hours eight-hour strike began said the longer, until the end of the day shift police had taken no action by then. at 2 p.m. However, Polish television reported PAP reported that "the workers of the police used "means ofcoercion" the first shift left the shipyard in on several groups of onlookers who peace," indicating that the strike defied orders to disperse after dusk ended for the day as scheduled. fell. One official source in Warsaw said 
The official news agency PAP said privately that there could be trouble workers went home peacefully but in all five of the coastal provinces several groups "disturbing the and two in the interior of the peace" outside the shipyard and at country where Solidarity support the Gdansk railway station were was strong. 
Father Bob Pelton recalled his experiences in meeting ofthe Central American Action Aware­forcefully dispersed by police. Three large convoys of police Central America and spoke on the need for ac­ness Committee. See story below. (Photo by Tom The Western reporters said trucks were seen heading north curate information on that region at last night's White) leaders of the protest decided to toward Gdansk. 
strike again today for eight hours. The Gdansk strike was the first They told the shipyard's 17,000 open defiance of the CommunistIn VAdecisions workers assemble the regime's labor
to outside new law adopted gates if the government closed Friday by Parliament, to annul the down the yard. liberalization measures won in a 
The government television nationwide strike wave in the sum­
Veterans seek court review 

service said that a section of the mer of 1980. In the letter Harrell voiced sup­Marozsan questions the fairness of workforce at the Gdansk shipyard The underground committee of
By RYAN VER BERKMOES 

port for the efforts by the group to benefits given to veterans who have stopped work, but claimed pictures four top Solidarity leaders still at
Managing Editor 

taken in the yard showed there was not much interest among other 
change the laws regarding payment received internal injuries. large called a four-hour strike Nov. 
oflegal representatives. "It's the same common 10 and a boycott ofthe new unions.
"Students should not register for workers. However, the telecast said"The only recourse these veterans denominator. People with internalthe draft until their constitutional the pictures were taken between 3 The new law cancelled thehave with V.A.-related complaints is injuries aren't getting what they feelrights are guaranteed," according to and 3:30 p.m.. after the strike was registration of all unions and theto file them with the V.A. If they they deserve. The V.A. doctors makea local veteran who is protesting the want legal help with their appeals, their decisions and there is nothing scheduled to end for the day. right to strike. It authorized the or­absence of judicial review of 

lawyers are forbidden by law to The government cut all Telex and ganization of local unions only un­
Veterans Administration decisions See VA, page 4 telephone communications with the der Communist Party control.

charge more then ten dollars to
-a right he argues is included in the handle the case," claimed Hassler,
Constitution. 
who added, "This makes it hard to
Steve Marozsan, a member of get good lawyers. Who would work 
Innercity work
Veterans for Constitutional Rights, a for that?"
group being formed in South Bend, The group hopes to gain support
yesterday called for the institution by publicizing their cause. They
offederal court consideration ofV.A. 

Plunges alter studentviews 
have run advertisements in the
decisions. South Bend Tribune in an effort to
At a press conference held in enlist other veterans. 

ByPATSAIN the poorest sections of the nation's tion. This year, nearly 300 are ex­Marozsan's home, Marozsan and 
The group also hopes that in Has­News Staff cities. pected to participate. Applications
Dewey J. Hassler, both veterans of sler's words, "the press will follow Reg Weissert, the coordinator of for this year's Plunge are due thisWorld War II, outlined the findings up on this story. They didn't cover An estimated 300 students will the program. said "This is not a Friday, and may be picked up at theof research they have done into the events leading up to World War spend two days of their Christmas working project, it is an awareness Campus Ministry office, or from aveteran's rights. 

II, and look what happened." break in the poorest neighborhoods action. Students meet and talk to hall representative.
They cited a law passed in 1940 The three members of the group of America this year, as part of the people, see what the city is like, and, The sites for the plunge are

that "arbitrarily and capriciously all have grievances with the benefits Urban Plunge. chiefly, get new insights on people." chosen by program participants,
denies veterans their constitutional they are receiving from the V.A. All The Urban Plunge, a program The program, according to with the student's first choice beingrights." According to the two, three claim to have suffered internal sponsored by the Center for Social Weissert, is growing in popularity. honored whenever possible. Most veterans are denied the right of judi­injuries while serving in the armed Concerns, strives to make people Last year, 260 students went to S8 students choose their home cities,

cial review in federal court of ad­forces. 

aware of the conditions that exist in different sites throughout the na-or cities in their general area. If aministrative decisions by the V.A. 
"There is no way to hold the V.A. ================================================== program has not previously existed 
in a particular city, an attempt will
responsible," said Marozsan. 
ToinformND/SMC 
be made to start one there.
The group announced its support Students are put into small groups
for a Senate Bill S. 3392, sponsored according to the cities to which theyby Gary Hart, D-Colo. According to 




CentralAmerican committee meets 
are going. The plunge is directed byan aide in Hart's office. "If a veteran a contact in the city. "We look forhas a problem with the V.A., he is By MARGO MISCHLER Yuknas, who visited Central formation about the situation in 

people in inner cities who are

barred by law from taking any legal News Staff America last year, recalled that she Central American countries operating programs in parishes, oraction against the Administration. saw extreme poverty and the poor bringing in speakers and movies working in agencies trying to al­Veterans are only allowed to appeal "The press has not given the situa­living conditions during her travels. pertaining to this subject -and leviate the problems and injustice,"V.A. desisions to the V.A." tion in Central America the Pelton, who recently returned providing opportunities for discus­said Weissert.
The proposed bill would open up coverage it deserves," said Father from a trip to Central America, sion and debate on related topics. 
In addition, Weissert said "thedecisions of the V.A. to the scrutiny Bob Pelton, speaking at the Central remarked that "those who commit When questioned how the stu­center knows personally most of theof the federal courts. The bill has American Action Awareness Com­themselves to try to find out what's dents of Notre Dame/Saint Mary's contacts in the cities. The contactsbeen introduced into the Senate mittee meeting last night. going on in the (refugee) camps, are could help, Yuknas replied,"by have schedules which are

three times and has been passed It is not in U.S. interests to not looked upon with sympathy." becoming educated about the situa­
structured so students can get the
eat ch time. A concurrent resolution publicize the situation in Central He said that he encountered such tion." 
most out of the program, and theyhas been defeated twice in the America, because the U.S. govern­treatment and, had he mentioned he She recommended the North 

have guidelines in which the stu­House of Representatives, and was ment is involved in covert opera­was a priest, he would have been American Congress on Latin dents are supposed to operate."

being considered for a third time by tions, according to a committee barred from entering the country. America periodical as a good source According to Warren Wright, athe House Veterans Affairs Commit­memberjacque Yuknas. "The Christian Church is the of information. 
member of the Urban Plunge's or­tee when the House completed its The government is "pouring mil­enemy as far as the military of ganizational task force, most of the

term this year. lions of dollars into building Central America is concerned," he The committee is still in the or­plunges are run by priests and sistersAt the conference Marozsan also (military) bases, helping these pointed out to the committee. ganizational stage. Additional in­who are socially active in parishes. A read a letter from Morris Harrell, the countries to become U.S. stron­The newly formed committee's formation about the group can be few programs, such as the one inrecently elected president of the gholds." while the people remain goal is to battle the news blackout by obtained from committee members 
American Bar Association. poverty-stricken, she said. providing current, accurate in-T.J. Conley or Ellen Hawley. 
See PLUNGE,~ 4 




News Brief§ 
By The Ohsen•er and The Associated Press 
A Notre Dame stud«:!nt and a local woman were robbed at gunpoint early last Sunday morning. Greg Gross, a senior, said that he and the woman were walking along the 800 block of Corby Street around 12:45 a.m. when two black males, one holding a gun, told the two to give them their money. Gross said that the men ran away with the woman's purse when a group of people ap­proached the four. He said that the woman, who wished to remain nameless, had "around four or five dollars" in her purse. Gross reported the incident to the South Bend police. -The Observer 
Brother William Mewes. a Holy Cross brother 
from Notre Dame, has been appointed state coordinator for the In­
diana Nuclear Weapons Freeze campaign. He previously coor· 
dinated the campaign in Indiana's Third Congressional District. 
Mewes described the campaign as a "grassroots movement" which 
seeks to halt the production and deployment of nuclear weapons 
and delivery systems in both the U.S. and the U.S.S.R. He expects to 
collect several thousand signatures in a statewide petition drive 
which ended yesterday. Mewes, citing opinion polls which showed 
78/ support for a nuclear weapons freeze resolution, said his main 
goal is to convince Indiana legislators that their constituents favor 
the freeze. Both Sen. Richard Lugar and Rep. John Hiler oppose a 
weapons freeze, while their November opponents, Democrats Floyd 
Fithian andJack Bodine favor it. Copies ofthe petition will be given 
to all four men, as well as President IR.eagan. Mewes said the group 
plans to reintroduce a freeze resolution in the Indiana state 
legislature. A similar measure was defeated earlier this year. Mewes 
described the resolution as non-binding, and requiring the com· 
pliance ofthe Soviets. -The Observer 
The Swedish navycontinued its search for a foreign 
submarine in Hors Bay yesterday for the llth day, but the nation's 
top military man said the likelihood was increasing that it had 
escaped into the Baltic Sea Navy spokesman Capt. Sven Carlsson 
said there had been no "firm indication" ofthe sub's presence in the 
waters offthe Musko Naval Base since Friday. "It could still be there, 
but the likelihood is gradually decreasing," said Gen. Lennart Ljung, 
the armed forces commander-in-chief There was also no further 
word of a second sub the navy said it detected outside the entrance 
to the bay last Thursday. Ljung said Sunday it might have been the 
first sub after it made its escape. -AP 
More than $1 million a minute is being 
spent worldwide on the military,.;with nuclear stockpiles exceeding 50,000 weapons, according to a study by a coalition ofarms control groups. The study, "World Military and Social Expenditures, 1982," charges that nuclear and conventional arms races have wasted resources without enhancing international security. International nuclear stockpiles have mushroomed to represent the equivalent of 
3.5 tons of TNT for every person on earth -a total representing more than 1 million times the explosive power of the Hiroshima bomb, the study said. "Under its heavy military burden, the global economy has suffered," writes the author of the study, Ruth Leger Sivard. "The diversion of resources from civilian needs is a silent killer, curbing productivity and development, and adding more mil­lions to the hundreds of millions of people who lack the most basic necessities of life." Sivard is director of a non-profit research or­ganization named World Priorites. She was formerly chief of the economics division of the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency. -AP 
Police yesterday detained one of two men 
accused of taking 11 people hostage and collecting a 5400,000 ran­som after stealing 550,000 from a blown-open safe in a bank in Koblenz, West Germany. Officials said the bank robber was seized in the industrial city of Bochum. The Cologne-based radio station Deutschlandjunk quoted Koblenz police headquarters as saying 5280,000 was found on the suspect. The two men vanished Wednes­day after a 19-hour drama that began when the two men robbed the bank in Koblenz, police said. The gunmen seized the hostages, col­lected the ransom, and released thei1r captives later after a wild car chase and a shootout with police, who then lost track of them, offi­cials said. -AP 
A task force investigating the deaths of seven 

people who took cyanide-laden Extra-Strength Tylenol reported no progress in its inquiry yesterday and declined to say whether it had any new leads. Chicago police are working with the force of more than 100 investigators from federal, state and local agencies, but are also conducting their own probe into the death of the seventh vic­tim. They said there wa~ "nothing new" in their effort. "Things are quiet," Sgt. Michael Invergo said. Meanwhile, a Chicago man who became the first person arrested in connection with the investiga­tion remained in the Metropolitan Correctional Center yesterday on a federal extortion charge. U.S. Magistrate Olga Jurco set bond at 
S100,000 for Jerome Howard, 20, who allegedly tried to extort S8,000 from a hospital with threats to "put cyanide in every bottle of Extra-Strength Tylenol to see what it will do." Howard has been dismissed as a suspect in the seven deaths which occurred between Sept. 29 and Oct. 1, officials said. -AP 
Mostly cloudy Tuesdayand cool. High in upper 50s. Mostly cloudy Tuesday night and Wednesday and continued cool. Low Tuesday night in the mid 40s. High Wednesday in the upper 50s. -AP 

Tuesday, October 12, 1982 -page 2 
A few modest proposals 
Do you ever get frustrated? No, not that kind of frustration, but the kind you get from the annoyances of day-to-day life. During my years here at Notre Dame I've seen more then my fair share offrustration. There are a number of deficiencies on this campus that, if cor­rected, would make life more pleasant for us all. 
Take the Engineering Auditorium. A more uncom­fortable facility is hard to imagine. What kind ofa place is that to watch a movie? The slant ofthe floor is so slight that ifsome tall oafsits in front ofyou, you're out ofluck. Just sitting in that place is bad enough. The seats are medieval horrors that, during the course of a two hour movie, slowly reduce your backside to mush. Now that they have chosen to overcrowd the place, the tem­porary desks littering the aisles threaten one's physical safety. How much would it cost to install some modern padded seats? The ones in the Annenberg Auditorium would do just fine. And while they are at it, they could fix the bulbs in the projectors so that the films don't go from yellow tint to blue tint with each successive reel. 
Another improvement sorely needed is a bus shelter at the Library. While I don't use the shuttle myself, each winter the sight ofgaggles ofshivering Saint Mary's stu­dents breaks my heart. After a steamy study session in the library, its downright un­healthy to stand in the blowing cold. The shelter by the Grotto has been a success. The time has come to repeat it. 
Perhaps the Physical Plant Department could purchase some satellite photos of this campus. Then they could come up with a master plan for the many paths and sidewalks which skewer the campus. As it stands now, many of the routes take one on a journey to nowhere. 
Now, of course, there are a few contributing problems. For a group of people sup­posedly in the prime of health, students are a lazy bunch. The only people who never trample the grass seem to be the elderly members of our community ­the people who could understandable take the shot­
cuts. 
The busy, booming Notre Dame campus is always changing in layout. So predicting the next meandering of the masses is a dubious art at best (like weather forecasting). However, it would be far better if the Physical Plant Department gave the lazies convenient pathways, as opposed to combatting them with silver posts and strategic pine trees. Think of all the money that could be saved on the acres of turf rolled out for graduation. 
I don't really understand the registration process either. It consists mostly of picking up some computer cards from one nice lady and giving them to another. What does this accomplish? No matter what you do, you still end up prowling crowded hallways on campus, and mark sensing until your fingers fall off. Even better is the confirmation process. For two semesters now my finalized schedule has been sent to me days after the 

. 
Design E"dilor ...........Tim Neely Oesign Assistant .. Laura "Pillow Ahuser" 
Puk Layout Stuff ................. Maureen llurke 1)•pesetters ........................................... 1\ruce 
Mark News Editor........................ Tim Ven·eiJotti Copy Editor........................... Diane Dirkers Editorials Layout ............... Ken "Call Me" 
Cerabona 
Sports Copy Editor.............. Mike Riccardi 
B & T Layout............................. Ed Konrady 
ND Day Editor .......................... Dave Grote 
SMC lJuyE"ditor ........................ Tari Brown 
Typist ........................................... Tari Brown 
Chris Perry Ad Design ................................jeannie Euch Pbotograpber ............................ Tom White Guest Appearances........................ Dogface 
The Mad Hungarian 

~ Get your tickets 
Marie"After 40 it's over" Geciakowski 

~ while they last.
Schmittles am! Big Ray 

59 to 522.50 S'Dtci&J Student Rate.s 
The Observer tUSPS 598 920) <5 

: 112 pr:i.~e 
ptibhshe<l Monday through Fnday and 
on home loot ball Saturdays except 

:&at., Mail.« ~illa ., Eve. (l.D required) 
dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer 1S published by the students ' 
of Notre Dame and Sa.nt Marys Col· lege Subscnp!lons may be purchased for $25 per year tS 15 per semester) by wntlng The Observer P 0 Bux 0 Notre Dame lnd<ana 46556 
The Observer <S a member of The 



~!tiiiJ l••t

Associated Press All reproduct<on 
For ticket information call 234-4044

nghts are reserved Second class postage pa<d at Notre 
or write BROADWAY THEATRE LEAGUE 
VISA 
Dame lnd<ana 46556 
P.O. Box 866, South Bend IN 46624 :::~::::::::::::::::::': ~ 

...........••.....................•...../ .......................... 

'·JJ icial final course change day. Now if they are going tc send me this information late, why do they have to scare me with the false deadline? "Please! I've never even been toJapanese 1 0 1." 
Have you ever been drenched by a sprinkler late at night? I have. These merciless things revolve in search of the unsuspecting. Why do they squirt at night, and why are they always on after it rains? (Ofcourse, muddy lawns do discourage the shortcutters.) 
The bookstore has security gates through which patrons pass, and security guards to examine the patrons as they pass, so why can't you buy your books and your sundries at the same time? It is senseless to have to line up twice, when once would suffice. And why do they have all those birthday cards for people 
who are old? Most of the trade is for roommates and friends. 
The heat has gotten me steamed from time to time as well. Here at The Observer 
AfEW WORDS 
office, located in LaFortune 
Wlrtt 
Student Center, the heat has
RYI+I VER l3£RKW>£S 
been on for several weeks. One ofthe best days was last week when the temperature outside was around eighty degrees. On the other hand, the heat in the dorms is spot­ty at best. I can remember shivering in November, and baking in April. Such treat­ment should be reserved for TV dinners. A nice moderate 
dosage  of  this  heat year- 
round  would  make  life  
much more pleasent.  

The aforementioned sidewalks are lovely and pa~­toral avenues during the spring, summer, and fall. But come winter, they become trecherous pathways of peril. The snowplows tear about in a crazed manner. Nothing stops them, not students, not buildings, not even the ubiquitous silver posts. When the thaw hits in spring, mounds of razed turf, battered bicycles, and other carnage litter the campus. Do they have to drive as if the campus were the Baha 500? 
Well, these are just a few modest suggestions. The cost of implementing any of them would be small, yet would improve all of our lives. Besides, if nothing is done to change these problems, Notre Dame may find itself the victim of one Andy Rooney's crotchety ram-. blings. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are tbe views of the author, and do not necessarily represent the views ofThe Observer or its editorial board. 

. . 
:rri., Nov. 5at 8p.m.-Sat., Nov. 6at 2and 8p.m.-Sun., Nov. 7at 7:30 p.m.;
. 
.
. .
.
.
. 




The Observer Tuesday, October 12, 1982 -page 3 
Senate told 
Rectors oppose partyreforn1s 
ByDANKOPP 
StaffReporter 
The majority of rectors surveyed opposed the Student Senate's sec­tion party proposal, said Student Body Vice-President Bob Yonchak at last night's Student Senate meeting. 
Yonchak is the co-author of the proposal to allow well regulated sec­tion parties in the dorms. "Most of the rectors I've talked to hate it so far. They doubt the control aspect. They feel the majority of students are responsible but there are a few who would wreck the parties," Yonchak said. 
"There is also a big problem with the drinkin~ a~l· in lnd.ana. Thr l ni­versity is already sticking its neck out in allowing unuerage llrinkmg in party rooms," Yonchak added. 
"It just doesn't look like we have 
the rectors' backing," Yonchak said. 
Senior Class President Mark Mai 
commented, "They're worried 
about alcohol abuse and. then they 
don't go for something like this, 
which is meant as a solution to the 
problem." 
"We're going to have to fight this 
out in the Campus Life Council." 
concluded Student Body President 
Lloyd Buri.e. 
In other business Burke said he is urgmg the administration to allow 

Dan and Rose '.~ucey 
Couple promotes 

By CINDY COLDIRON 
SeniorStaffReporter 
Emphasizing that the United States and other countries "had to change from looking at war as a solu­tion to conflict," Rose and Dan Lucey, founders of the movement for a National Peace Academy, spoke in Hayes-Healy Auditorium last night on the need for the establish­ment ofa National Peace Academy. 
Relating their experience of travelling across the country one summer with their family and seeing 
Reagan accuses Demosagain 
DALLAS, Tx. (AP) -President Reagan, campaigning for Texas Republicans, aimed another shot at Democrats yesterday before return­ing to the White House to work on what aides insist will be a "non­partisan" speech on the economy. 
In a speech prepared for delivery to a Republican rally, the president called Democratic critics of his economic plan "Monday morning quarterbacks" with no alternative to offer. 
"We have pulled America back from the edge of disaster," he said, contending that the economic dilemma was caust:d by those "who are now our biggest critics." 
The rhetoric y::sterday followed the pattern White House aides have said will characterize presidential speeches in the final three weeks of the midterm election campaign ­blame the Democrat~ for economic hard times and accentuate any positive economic developmenrs. 
"Our program is beginning to work," said Reagan, citing declining interest rates and soaring stock prices. The president said he shares the "ache and frustration" of the growing numbers of people who can'tfind work, but added that there is no quick, easy cure. 
Republican political strategists fear the nation's I 0.1 percent un­employment rate -the highest in 42 years-will be uppermost in the minds of voters when they go to the polls Nov. 2. If that assessment is correct, Republicans could lose the congressional gains of their I980 election triumph. 
Even in the "bloomin6 Sunbelt state" of Texas, unempl<,vm<:nt has reached 8.-l percent -th~ highest level since state figures w,·re first compiled I 2 years ago. 
Republican Gov. William Cle­ments is engaged in a tough re­election battle against Democratic State Attorney General Mark White. 
·-~ 
only war monuments and "no in­dication of symbols of peace in the United States", the Luceys stated that this Peace Academy would be an independent, multi-disciplinary organization at the graduate and post-graduate level. It would feed in­to all sectors of society, public and private, Rose Lucey said. 
Referring to the tact tnat I':J otner colleges had a department of peace studies, the Lucey's asked why Notre Dame did not have one. 
The Luceys' idea of a National Peace Academy is not new. Since 1793 there have been 140 bills presented in Congress for the es­tablishment ofa peace academy, but these bills "never came out of com­mittee," Dan Lucey said. 
In early 1982 the Senate held hearings on the bill, which was sup­ported by a diversified group of people from presidents ofmajor uni­versities to bishops and political leaders. As a result, the Senate voted in favor of bringing this bill to the 

commercial enterprises on campus. 
"The University owns all the land 
around the campus to keep out busi­
ness establishments -we are sur­
rounded by a moat." 
"The nearest commercial establishment is King's Cellar," Burke said. 
It was also announced at the meeting that tickets for the Novem­ber 8 "Chicago" concert are now on sale at the Student Union Record Store and at the A.C.C. In addition, Freshmen Registers may be picked up Tuesday and Wednesday from 6 
to 9 p.m. in the La Fortune lobby. 
Freshmen must have their I.D.s to 
pick up a book. 
floor in April 1982. 
"But because of all the debates going on in the Senate on the budget and the filibustering on school prayer, our bill has not gotten to the floor," he said. 
Currently, the "bill is being bottled up by Senator Howard Baker, the majority leader, who makes up the Senate calandar," Dan Lucey said. 
"Although we don't believe that 
Baker is  against  the  bill,  he does  
determine  which  bills  will  be  
dicussed," he said.  

Although there is no hope of the bill being passed in this congres­sional session, "we now hope to at­tach the bill as a 'rider' onto another bill in the special session that begins Nov. 29," Dan Lucey said. 
Advocating that "peace has to be a vital part of our lives," Rose Lucey suggested that the students look at their own major and ask themselves what they are learning and how it will affect the peace ofthe world. 



r----------------,
t  Ihe Obseaer  _t  
f  MANDATORY WORKSHOP  f  
t  for all News Reporters  t  
Tues. 6:30 LaFortune Little Theatre  t t t t  

THE THOMAS J. AND ALBERTA V 
\ V /HITE CENTER WFORLAWAND GOVERNMENT 
\.f JtrE:' DamP In\\ xhool 

SENATOR GARY HART 
LOOKING BEYOND ECONOMICS DATE: Wednesday, October 13, 1982 P~CE: Library Auditorium ; , TIME: 1:15 
, 

!' 
r ~­
i· 
L
,. 

Student Body President LloydBurke commentedon the rejection ofthe latest section party proposals at this week's Student Senate meeting last night. See story at left. (Photo by Tom White) 

(jo IRISh, B€at aRIZOna! 

ATTElfTIOlf: 

There will be a general meeting for ALL Observer Staff this Wednesday at 6:30p.m. 
This meeting will be held in the comfortable Library Auditorium. 
Come with your gripes, 
ide,,~, and suggestions. 


on 


·-·--------------------------­

The Observer Tuesday, October 12, 1982 -page 4 

Residents panic 

Lebanesesearchrefugeecarnps 
BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) -The Lebanese army surrounded the Palestinian refugee camps of Sabra and Chatilla yesterday, conducting house-by-house searches for guns and demolishing shacks built with­out building permits. 
Panicked camp residents reported that men in civilian clothes had entered the camps overnight, leading away several people. Lebanese paramilitary security forces attempting to calm the resi­dents said the men were plainclothes policemen, and that no further camp searches would be allowed by people out of uniform. There was no explanation for the 
searches  being  conducted  after  
nightfall.  
As  the  army searched  the  cy.ro  

camps where hundreds of Pales­tinian refugees were massacred last month, Western diplomats reported that a new contingent of 400 Italian 
troops will be sent to Lebanon tomorrow to join the existing multi­national peacekeeping force. The new contingent would bolster the American, French and Italian peacekeeping force to 4,200 men. The Lebanese government re­quested the force after the massacre of hundreds of Palestinian refugees in Sabra and Chatilla Sept. 16-18. Lebanese security sources reported Sunday that Christian 'militamen were filtering into Mos­lem neighborhoods and have kid­napped dozens of leftists in the past week. Lebanese Moslem leaders claim 150 people have been kid­napped by the militiamen in recent days. The paramilitary security forces in Beirut issued a statement late yes­terday saying the abductors were plainclothes policemen arresting wauted criminals. The military prosecutor in charge ofi t nvestigating the massacre in the two camps said yesterday that a total of 328 bodies had been recovered and 991 people are still missing. 
Prosecutor Assad Germanos said some of the missing are presumed dead and buried in underground bunkers where they sought refuge to escape the killers and others may have been abducted by the assassins. 
The Lebanese army, which took up positions in west Beirut after Is­raeli troops pulled out Sept. 28, has been sweeping the area for arms left behind by Palestine Liberation Or­ganization guerrillas and Lebanese leftists, It also has been rounding up suspected criminals and illegal aliens, including Palestinians with-
continuedfrom page 1 
South Bend, are run by justice and peace centers. The purpose of the program is to let students experience the problems that people have in the in­ner city, Weissert explained. "I don't think you really under­stand the problems people are involved in unless you are in touch with them," Weissert said. "A book may give you the theory, but you need to be in touch to really under­stand." Kevin Hayes, a senior, said "I ex­pected to learn about life in an urban setting, and find out the differences between that and my own suburban life. Their worries are different. While we worry about whether there is gas in the car, or whether to cut the grass instead of playing golf, they worry about how they will get food on the table, and where it will come from." "I wanted to get my feet wet in the world of social justice," said senior Dan Keusal. "I wanted to see the dif­ferent ways people were alleviating 


******************************** 
ATTENTION NDISMC STUDENTS: 
You can now buy Observer classifieds at both the ND and SMC Observer offices. 
ND office-third floor, LaFortune, 10 am -3pm SMC office-Regina South basement, noon -3 pm. FOR NEXT -DAY SERVICE 
********************************** 
AREAL 
'


Octobcqct1 
~:...jt,W...W\~­

~~~~--~---------------~~~~~-­
You're Wasting Your Money Buying Anywhere Else! 
=~o'o'::·T·ggc
MARY MIX 
750 Ml. NOW 
REG I 99 
LORD CALVERT OR 

UHLUA 
CALVERT EXTRA 

~ 8~l~Ml
9991 7l 
LITER 

J. ROIIETCARLO ROSSI 
SPUMANTEWINES 

l 9!0Ml
49~ER 

A WORLD OF WINE Ill 
SUNGLO 39
Pre1ented by Ktng!. Cellar for the benefit of the Muscular Dy1trophy Auoc.iahon 
POP 
COLA. OIAMII£, lOOT
Thundoy,lloY. II 5-1:30 p.IIL 
1££1, LliiOM Llll£. CASE OF at 1M Nair• Da•• ACC 
&liAr£, CHEIIY, 2~ CANS w-. _.CMt..u a...tMII • Watcllt.r htd• 
STUWI£11Y, PUIICH 
I 
KAMCHATKACALVERT 
YODUGIN 
899 
1.75 
liTU 
I CAllEI WINES
I 2~!Ml 

out residence permits. 
Beirut radio reported that 30 suspected criminals and illegal aliens were arrested by the Lebanese army in west Beirut yesterday. The Defense Ministry said more than 1,000 people have been arrested in 
west Beirut in the past two weeks. 
Moslem leaders have criticized the army for limiting its search for weapons and suspects to west Beirut -the former stronghold of the Palestine Liberation Organization ­and not disarming the Christian militias that control east Beirut. 
... Plunge 
· problems, and the different helping 
roles they had. Our guides let us see 
it the way it was, without trying to 
shape our views. I really had a good 
experience with the people who 
were working." 
Leslie LeMay, a veteran of two 
plunges, said "I think we go in with 
the idea that people are not fighting 
against their situation. I think they 
are fighting more than we who are 
so concerned about social justice." 
"It made me realize," said Hayes, 
"that these people's problems are 
not all self-inflicted. Instead, the 
problems are much more complex 
than direct cause and effect. They in­
volve structures in society, politics, 
and economics, which oppress 
people." 
One experience shared by many 
is eating in a dining hall, or a soup 
kitchen. Angelo Capozzi, also a task 
force member, said "The dining hall 
was a really heavy experience. You 
stood in line, ate, and sat with the 
poor. The people I met there 
showed a duality of hope and 
despair." 
"The plunge has a positve effect 
on most people," said Weissert. 
"I would recommend it to 
anybody," Keusal said. They are two 
days that will change your life one 
way or another. I would hope 
everybody would do it at least once 
before they leave Notre Dame." 
... VA 

continuedfrompage 1 
you can do about it." 
Marozsan continued, "Even if we get judicial review, I'm out of luck. The V.A. claims my records all burned up in a St. Louis warehouse fire in 1973." 
Hassler pointed out that his "benefits stopped right after I got a letter critcizing the V.A. printed in the Chicago Tribune." 
A third veteran present at the con­ference, Clyde Alderfer, said, "we aren't doing this for ourselves, we're doing this for the young kids. When they sign that registration form, I feel they lose their rights. Remem­ber, the first thing they did in Ger­many was register the Jews. I don't think anyone should register until we get this fixed." 
"It is incredible that this could go on in America," Maroszan said. 
Freshman 'dog books' 





ready 
Freshmen Registers are now readv. freshmen who purchased the~ can pick them up today and tomorrow from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. in the LaFortune lobby. Freshmen must hring their student I. D.'s. 





SAPBdiscusst~s frosh elections 
The Observer Atweekly meeting 
By MARY ANN POTTER 
News Staff 
The Saint Mary's Board of Gover­nance discussed Freshman Council elections and Student Activities Programming Board events at a meeting Sunday night. 
Electaons Commissioner !\tonica Gugle reported that campaigning tor 21 Freshman Council candidates hegan Sunday night and will end tomorrow. Elections will take place on Thursday in each ofthe residence halls. 
The Student Activities Program­ming Board will hold its tlrst Cot: feehouse of the year tomorrow at the Saint Mary's clubhouse, with the Jim Coors Band scheduled to hegin playing at 9:00 p.m. The SAPB also is sponsoring the movie Arthur tomor­row at 7 and 10 p.m. in Carroll Hall. 
Student Body President Kathleen Murphy is enthusiastic about the 1982-1983 school year. "The Board is working very hard. l think the stu­dents have an overall good feeling ahout the school." !\lurphy said that she has been receiving mostly positive reactions from students. 
"This is not denying that there are areas that could he improved, but we are working within our means to achieve that improvement," she ex­plained. 

Murphy would like to see more participation in student activies. "We like to offer these activities and have the students take part in them." 
!\lurphy explained that the main concern of the board is to do the hest job possihle to insure that stu­dents are well represented. In order to achieve this the Board hopes to keep communication lines open within the board and hetween the hoard and students. 
In Third World 
Prof stresses ethical development 
Goulet feels that growth schemes have ignored traditional cultural aspects of Third World countries while increasing the dependence of those nations on the West. 
Speaking of the "Matthew Arnold Syndrome," Goulet qumed the Vic­torian poet, saying that less developed countries ( LDC's) are "wandering between two worlds. one dead, the other powerless to be born." Goulet says that while LDC's have emerged from their traditional past, they have not yet found an effective path for the future. The reason for this, accord­ing to Goulet, is that the leadership of many LDC's feels torn between the desire for membership in the global economic community and 
the wish to maintain individual na­
tional character. 
Goulet pointed out that there are 


By ROBERT F. SCANLON 
.Veu•s Staff 
A Notre Dame economics profes­sor, in a critique of development policies in the Third World, said the means as well as the ends of those policies must be evaluated to insure that they are ethically sound. 
Professor Denis Goulet, in a lecture entitled "Obstacles to World Development: An Ethical Reflec­tion," outlined tlaws in contem­porary strategy. 
Citing "a fundamental distortion between goods and the good life," Goulet, an expert in international economics, said that current development programs have too of­ten stressed the importance of 
modern consumer goods, while ignoring their harmful effects on un­derdeveloped societies. 
conflicting opinions within the Third World, with some leaders call­ing for a basic restructuring of the world economic system while others advocate the alleviation of immediate needs. The central role of heavy industry in the development of LDC's is also being re-evaluated. 
While Goulet thinks that the failure of Western industry-based developent schemes has con­tributed to the Third World dilem­ma, he also emhasizes the domestic shortcomings of LDC's. These in­clude corruption. widespread apathy, excessive traditionalism, and a shortage of effective leader­ship. 
Dr.]urgen Moltmann, ofthe University ofTubingen, lectured on "A Social Understanding of the Trini~v" last night in the Library Auditorium. (Photo by Tom White) 
Howtomakepeace withTolstoy. 
DON'T MISS • •

MlSSlDg_ 
fhe film: Oct. L2 & 13 7:00, 9:15, & 11:30 
The Author: THOMAS HAUSE:R ThursJav Odoh!"'r i4 8:00pm LIBRARY AUDnORIUM 

~~-------------------------------J~ 
Sponsored by CILA and ND Student Union 
Considering 



CAR€€QS 1n BtJ$1ness 
Arts and letters Business Society Presentation 
topics inclu(ie: 
T iE JOB SEARCH 


r \IL :AMPAIGN 
l\t18A SCHOOLS 
-foday. Tues. Oct .2 7pm 124 Hayes-Healy 
GENERAL FOODS 
© General Foods Corporation 1982 









Business & Technology_r_uesd_ar,o_ctob_er1_2,19_82_pag_e6 
~...;.· 
A 
t
>\:
, 
J ··~ f:
... 
l.. 
f
' 
.~ 
~. 
' 
I 
i ! j 
t ·~ 
~ 
Research Update 
Two Swedes and an Englishman shared the 
Nobel Prize for Medicine on Monday for their research into a group of body chemicals that affect human ills ranging from arthritis and high blood pressure to asthma and painful menstruation. The prize was awarded to Sune Bergstrom and Bengt I. Samuelsson of the Karolinska Institute in Stockholm andJohn R. Vane of the Wellcome Research Foundation in Beckenham, England, who all happened to be in Boston at the time. Their research has delved into the workings and chemistry ofa perplexing group ofsubstances called prostaglan­dins, which are similar to hormones. Scientists believe they may be able to treat a variety of stubborn disorders by manipulating these substances, found throughout the human body and the animal 
world. All three men are in Boston this week to speak at scientific meetings held as part of the bicentennial celebration at Harvard Medical School. They sipped champagne together in a medical school lecture hall, and Bergstrom promised they would hold "a joint symposium" to fig•Jre out how to spend the $157,000 prize money. "It's certainly most gratifying that your colleagues value the work that you have been fighting with for the past 35 years," said Bergstrom, 66, who is sometimes called the father of prostaglandin chemistry. The three had shared the 1977 Albert Lasker Basic Medi­cal Award, given by the Albert and Mary Lasker Foundaton in New York, for their research. -AP · 
The technology is available to station a series 
of giant mirrors in orbit to reflect sunlight and illuminate U.S. population centers at night, a space agency study reports. Even if such a massive project received approval, the cost and complexity would delay its implementation until the next century, officials said . The study said the idea is economically feasible, but gave no price­tag. The report said sections of the mirrors could be ferried up in a series of space shuttle flights and .assembled in orbit by astronaut construction crews. The research was conducted by John E. Canady Jr. and john L Allen Jr. of the National Aeronautics and Space Ad­ministration's Langley Research Center in Hampton, Va. -AP 


Economic Update 
An icy Stretch Of Water above Alaska named Diapir Field may hold the biggest reserves ofoil and gas found in the United States in 14 years. The oil industry is gearing up for the 18 million­acre lease sale this week, which could bring in a record S 3 billion in bids. Many oil company officials believe the lease sale yesterday in Anchorage, Alaska, may be the most lucrative of the 41 sales to be offered in Interior Secretary james Watt's leasing program. Watt, who has been attacked for the program offering virtually the entire 
U.S. coastline for drilling over the next five years, is hoping the ping the successofthe sale will silence critics. "What we need is a big one -something that will show that the oil industry wants this land," Watt has said. The Diapir Field, named for the type of geological formation, lies at the top of Alaska just offshore from the Prudhoe Bay field, the 1968 discovery that supplies the country with 18 per­
cent of its domestic oil production. Diapir's proximity to the Prudhoe field and the Alaska oil pipeline is the reason the oil in­dustry is excited. The Interior Department puts the chance of find­ing commerical quantities ofoil and gas at 99.3 percent. It estimates that Diapir holds 2.4 billion barrels ofoil and 1.8 trillion cubic feet of gas. -AP 
"In nn jnh at the First >;atinnalllank of (hirago. Iam ronstantl1 u~iiiR tht· knowll'dgt· ac4uirl'd thrnuRh m1 p;mut·Kal trAminR at R• K>st-w.•lt · 
LAWYER'S ASSISTANT: 

AGROWTH CAREER FOR THE SO's 
Trainin~ a.' a l.awya·, A"i'tant can ~in· today\ colle~t· 
!'ra<.luate a valuahk e<.l~t· in the joh market. Emry-kvd p<>sitions in tht· Chica~o area pay as much a• SI.!.OOO to ~ 1~.l10U-aml "'me parak~ab are now earnin!( a.' much a.' ».H.OOO. It takes ju•t three months of <.la1 ttmt· study (six month• in the even in!() to prepare h>r a carn-r as a l.awn-r\ As~i•tant Tht· pro~o:ram at Roos~·vdtl'nivcrsity i• the lar!(est A.B.A -approve<.! pro~ram in Illinois. and i" record of ~ra<.luatt· cmploynwnt as.,istanLT is the hcst there i•. 
FOR INFORMATION AND A FREE BROCHURE CALL(312)341-3882 OR MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY! 
R< ><lSI'\TIT l 'N1\TRSITY l.awyer·s Assistant Pro~ram -do·s \1ichi~n AH·.. Chicago. Ill. hti(>O<; -~ 
In ltMtpt.'n.t••m v.alh llu-'\allt!ll.ll ( c:mn h•r PJr..llt·)lt.ll lr.JilllliJo!. 
•
l'll'a.-;t· send mt• a ropv of tht• Roostw!l l.a11wr'~ Assistant Pro~ram ratalo~ Iam intrrt·sted in tht• ~ Chka~o or ·-· Arlin!(ton ltri!(hl' location. 
(.1(\ 

'" 
llmnt· Plttlnt: 
"Ff'mwu{m \'.A. and Ill. Stat~·< ;uarantce<.ll.oans 
ltf"JM""n·h 1-mn-nfrl ~.Jii\..r..k:tlll-.nn lht· ha~•~ of mdl\·u.Ju.ll 2 3 ml·ril ant.! without rq~an.t lo r.tc.:c t:uh-• ~,.,wa-

Hits 1,012.79 

Dow-Jones rises to near-record 
NEW YORK (AP)-Slot!.. pnn:~ IIH>r~· -•:~p~c•all_ ''' soared ye~ten.Iay fo: the l(,unh ' t·•n~ reqlllfll11.( t rnllt. straight session in n.-ar·recon' ., hat \\OU!........\,\-\ :-t.:~ •.uk.h., -.0 Of· trading as the Dow jones industrial average pierced the I,000-point mark for the first time in I 5 months amid growing belief interest rates will keep falling. 
"The stock market is responding 
to the same factors that eventually 
will cause an economic recovery ­
more available and cheaper money," 
said Michael Metz, vice president of 
Oppenheimer & Co. 
Five stocks rose for every one that fell on the New York Stock Ex­change. 
The Dow Jones average of 30 in­dustrials, which rose 79 points last week, surged another 25.94 to 1,012.79 -its highest since it finished at 1,016.93 on April 28, 1981. The last time the closely watched measure closed above 1,000 was june 23, 1981, when it stood at 1,006.66. The average has risen about 2j6 points in two months. 
Trading volume also kept up its 
lcr 111urc good~. spurring manufac­urer' t•> mcrea;,e production and pt:-ritap~ 111re hack workers 


fierce pace. Some 138.5 3 million shares changed hands on the New York Stock Exchange, the second­highest one-day total behind the 
147.07 million shares traded last-,. T t hursday. It was the third straight session in which volume surpassed 100 million shares and the I Oth time since Aug. 18, which was the first day volume ever exceeded I00 mil­lion shares. 
The market, which often reacts to expectations, has been rallying despite news showing the economy remained weak last month, such as the I 0.1 percent unemployment rate reported Friday. 
"You can't fight the tape; we're in a bull market," said Alan Poole, vice president of Laidlaw, Adams & peck Inc. 
The big factor cited for Wall Street's euphoria is investors' per­ception that interest rates will keep falling and spark recovery. With money costing less, consumers should be encouraged to spend 
From Discover News Service 
With its digital time display, calen­dar, alarm and stopwatch, it looks at first glance like many other modern wrist waches. But it has features rivaling even those of Dick Tracy's famous watch: a tiny, all-channel, black-and-white VHF and UHF television set and an FM radio. 
Ti1e new TV-radio-wrist watch, which weighs less than two ounces, is the latest brainchild of Seiko, the world's largest manufacturer of timepieces. 
To make the watch as thin as pos­sible, Seiko developed a radically new liquid-crystal television screen in place ofthe conventional cathode ray tube. 
The antenna is incorporated into the headphones that are needed to hear programs, and power is provided by two AA batteries in a separate power pack that can be carried in a shirt pocket. 
Because the liquid-crystal screen draws much less power than an ordi­nary television picture tube, the tiny 
batteries  provide  five  hours  of  
viewing time.  
The  TV  watch  will  soon  be  

available in Japan for about S400, but will probably not be sold in the United States until 1983, and then only when the FM component has been redesigned to deal with the large number of U.S. stations. 

Unemploymentproblems 
Mistnanagetnent hurtsUJorkers 
By MILTON MOSKOWITZ 
Special to The Observer 
Many of the biggest companies in America are no longer the sources of employment they once were. 
Pan American World Airways had more than 40, ')00 persons on its payroll at the start of the 1970's. It's now down. to 30,000 -and it plans to lop oil' another 5,000 by the end ofthe year. 
International Harvester used to have more than I00,000 employees around the world. It's now below 65,000. 
U.S. Steel has 140,000 employees, down sharply from the 200,000 for­merly on the rolls. 
Litton lndust• '-:s, one of the ear­
liest conglomerates, has cut back 
from 118,000 to 76,000 employees. 
Firestone Tire once had jobs for 
105,000 persons. Today, it employs 
73,000. 
Labor unions negotiating on be­half of their members are painfully aware of these job reductions. They realize that companies are coming to the bargaining table with the threat to shut down plants if employees ask for more money. But it's clear. in the cases cited above and in many others, that reason the companies are doin~ so poorly is not because th~·,· han· ton many 
employees or because they have lazy employees who won't work. They're suffering because of dumb management. 
It wasn't Pan Am employees who decided to buy National Airlines. It wasn't Litton employees who bid badly on shiphuilding contracts and went on mindless searches for com­panit:sio acquire. It wasn't Firestone factory workers in Akron who decided to stick with bias-belted tires in the face of evidence indicat­ing the superior performance of radials. 
In the end, though, workers bear the brunt of these management failures. They lose their jobs. Ten years ago, in a statement that ap­peared in tht· -\.kron Beacon-Journal, Peter C. Bommarito, then president of the United Rubber Workers, termed the stubborness of the U.S. tire makers in resisting radials "the greatest financialfaux pas in the his­tory of the rubber industry." Bom­marito was right. Michelin, a French company, came along and beat Firestone to a pulp. Bommarito said in 1972: "Please, gentlemen, the workers in your plants should not be blamed for your errors in judg­
ment." 
They weren't blamed. They just 
IoM their joh:.. ;'l;o passengercar tires 
are bem~-t made anvmore in Akron. 
For years, while these dumb mistakes were being made in the ex­ecutive suites, companies were ur­ging their employees to work harder to improve productivity and propagandizing them with argu­ments for free enterprise. One ofthe best comments l have ever seen on 
these employee communications program was made a couple of weeks ago by Larry Ragan, publisher of the Ragan Report, a newsletter that goes to many companies. 
Ragan said: "I have never run into an employee who has been excited with the question: 'What is a fair rate ofprofit my company should be ear­ning?' Nor have I ever encountered an employee who, learning that the company's profit is 6. 5 percent, has said, 'Wow, think of that; and all this time I thought it was 2 5 percent .. .' 
"To ask workers to produce bet­ter or more is to imply blame ­blame upon them for not working harder; and no matter how clever the message, no matter how bright the headlines, no matter how coor­dinated the audio visuals and the films and the cute poscers posted in the plant, the program won't wash because it shifts responsibility from management to workers -and that's not where it belongs." 
Amen! 
Copyright 19tH, los Angelt."!Jo Tim~!'o ~~·ndu:are 


Tuesday, October 12, 1982 -page 7

Editorials 
Reagan increases aid to reactionaries in Central America 
While the nation's attention has been focused on such trouble spots as Lebanon and Poland, the Reagan Administration has dramatically escalated its short-sighted and dangerous policies in Central Amerij::a. Having defined the regions a vital to our na­tion's geo-political interests, the administra-
T.J. Conley 
Eye on the Amer:cans 

tion continue~ to funnel huge sums of military aid to repressive regimes, not only ensuring increased violence and repression but also further destabilizing an already critical situa­tion. 
In Guatemala, for example, the Reagan Ad­ministration proposes to resume military aid cut off under President Carter due to the regime's atrocious record on human rights. Not only has there been no improvement in the situation, but both The New York Times and Amnesty International have recently reported that the government of President Rios Montt is pursuing a "scorched-earth" 
policy reminiscent of Vietnam, systematically destroying Indian villages and massacring their inhabitants in order to isolate the guer­rillas from their bases of support. This has resulted in over 500,.000 people left homeless and countless others, including many women and children, brutally murdered. It is to this government that the Reagan Administration proposes to resume military aid, and to which it hJS sold Jeeps, trucks and helicopter parts, 
circumventing congressional scrutiny by reclassifying them as "non-military" equip­ment. 
In El Salvador, the administration continues to provide massive amounts ofaid despite the fact that the newly elected government of Al­varo Magana has shown no evidence of being able to control the "security forces" as they systematically murder civilians in an atrempt to weaken support for the guerrillas. Since 
1980, roughly S600 million in direct U.S. aid has been sent to El Salvador, while another S350 million is scheduled for next year. 
But perhaps the most disturbing and in many ways most significant development has been the Reagan Administration's attempt to establish Honduras as a substitute for direct United States involvement in Central America. 
U.S. military assistance received by Hon­duras has increased from S5. 5 million in 1981 to S32.3 million this year with another S36.3 million scheduled for next year. This does not include the over S50 million delivered in economic aid last year, nor the 521 million spend by the U.S. to upgrade and enlarge air­field facilities. 
It would appear that President Reagan wishes to ignore the fact that last November the Honduran people elected the first civilian government to rule that country in a decade, for he has consistently sought to strengthen the most reactionary forces within the Army in an effort to "regionalize" the war in El Sal­vador and destablize the leftist government in neighboring Nicaragua. 
There has been frequent coordination be­tween Salvadoran and Honduran troops along their common border during offensives against Salvadoran guerrillas, as well as well­documented claims that Honduran forces have actively participated in massacres of civilians along the Rio Sumpa which divides the two countries. Some Honduran officers support the anti-Sandinista camps whose members ar .e responsible for over 200 civilian deaths in the last several months within Nicaraguan territory. Many observers expect these same rightist guerrillas to invade Nicaragua on a large scale in coming months. The Honduran army has turned a blind eye to these camps. Thus the Reagan Administra­tion seeks to further its perceived interests in the region by turning the democratically elected government ofHonduras into a facade for a new military dictataorship which will then support its efforts at escalating the con­flicts within the region. Yet, they seem to have ignored the inherently destabilizing effect of pouring massive amounts of money into the military of the poorest country in Central America. While certainly far from tranquil, Honduras has traditionally been relatively stable compared to its embattled neighbors. But now, in the name of combatting com­munist intervention, the Reagan Administra­tion is in fact creating a situation which can only further destabilize the region and add more fuel to the conflagration. Apparently, 
the president has not learned the dangers of trying to pacify a region through a repressive, right-wing government. 

New Senior Bar is only cosmetic solution 
Like the proverbial dead horse, the social life at N.D. is the recipient of many a flogging here on the pages ofThe Observer. Not being one to make waves, I dutifully accept my turn at the whip. The target of my lashes is specifi­cally the administration's attitudes toward the problems here. 
Robert Wack 
Both Sides 

The fact there are problems here is as go0J as established. How to go about solving them is a completely different matter. The students usually favor whatever is most expedient. The less mess and fuss, the more fun for everybody. The administration. on the other hand, tends toward the cosmc[lc solutiOn. 
whatever looks best to the Alumni. The new Senior Bar is a perfect example ofboth desires being fulfilled. 
Last year when talk first began circulating about the construction of a new bar,-the campus was abuzz about the possibilities for enhancing social life here. When we arrived this fall, no one could say a bad word about the place. For once, the administration and the students were both pleased at how they had attempted to solve a problem. The students got their quick fix, no pain, no wait. The ad­ministration got its new building with its in­creased revenue potential. Everyone was happy, for awhile. 
Now. two months after its opening. the new ~enior Bar has barely a~ much respect a~ the old one. ~eniors can be heard grumbling about how dull it i~. and about how it's no fun. 
and on and on. 
It has become painfully obvious that con­structing a new building to drink in is not going to make Senior Bar or campus social life any better. That type of approach completely ignores the fundamental problem that Notre Dame students do not know how to have fun on campus. 
Can you blame us? For three years, we have been shuffling from dorm to dorm drinking beer in basements, and now senior year we have one more building to do it in, except now it is supposed to be fun. Ifyou think about it, what's at Senior Bar that you cannot find at any given dorm party (aside from exteriors)? 
This is not to slight the efforts ofthe student manager~. They Jo the 1>. 't they can and ~hould he praised. l'nh>rtunately, there is no­thing they can do aboUI the attitudes people bring in with them. Many t1nd it hard to loosen up socially with security mingling in the crowds. For others, the atmosphere is just too tame. Has anyone danced on a table yet in Senior Bar? That may sound stupid, but it's that kind ofexcitement that dissipates the ten­sion students seek to release on weekends. 
So, what is the administration supposed tn do? For starters, they have to start recognizing the fact that there are some very deep, fun­damental social problems on campus. Under­grads live for three years with every possible restriction on how they unwind on the weekends, and then they are called alcoholics and degenerates when they go ahead and have fun in the only ways they know how. The ad­ministration has got to look beyond what is going to look good to what is going to work best for us, the students. 

P.O. BoxQ Missing: raising questions about American foreign policy 
DearEditor: 
"On 12 Sept. 1973, a young American 
journalist came across evidence of covert 
United States involvement in the overthrow 
of Chilean President, Salvador Allende. Five 
days later, Chilean soldiers dragged Charles 
Horman from his home in Santiago. His fami­
ly never saw him again -Universal Pictures 
and Polygram Pictures present a Costa­
;avras film: Missing." The above is a short publicity piece put out by the makers of the movie Missing, which CILA is showing on campus tonight 
and tomorrow night. So what? Movies come and go, some of them blockbusters, and no­thing ever changes. Right? Maybe that is right, but if it is, then it's disturbing. This movie should change things, if only a little, by. helping us to look at ourselves as our neighbors do. We as a people need to take a good look at the United States and how we as a nation treat the countries around us, and specifically how we treat the people in those 
countries. 
The movie, which is based on the book, 
The Execution of Charles Horman by 
Thomas Hauser, raises issues both specific 
and general. Specific questions regard the al­
leged involvement of the American govern­
ment through its representatives in the American Embassy in Santiago, in the execu­tion ofan American citizen in Chile on Sept. 18, 1973. 
Was Charles Horman pointed out to the 
Chilean military by U.S. embassy officials 
who feared that he knew too much? Did em­
bassy officials know that Charles was to be 
executed and did they in fact okay the ex­
ecution? The film does not answer these 
questions; rather, it states emphatically that 
we should ask these questions of ourselves, 
ofour government. 

It has been nine years. So maybe we should forget about it; what's done is done. Right? Yes, but then it is not all in the past. Missing asks general questions about American foreign policy and how it is imple­mented, how we protect our "way of life." These are important questions that are very 
relevant to us today. Charles Horman was 
one ofthousands ofpersonsexecuted, and it 
is not something that happens onlv in Chile. 
But a clear understanding of what happened in Chile nine years ago could help us to guide ourselves through what is fast becom­ing another crisis point, Central America. Before we can face what is before us in Central America and understand how our neighbors perceive us, we must honestly face up to our past in Chile and in the rest of South and Central America. 
In the closing notes of his book, Thomas Hauser states, "1. grew up with an abiding faith in America. It is, in my estimation, the greatest country in the world -not for its wealth of military might but because its people have achieved a balance of security, freedom, and human rights unmatched in history. The preceding pages have been written, not to cast doubt on this country or the men and women who serve so well in our military and diplomatic corps, but rather in the belief that only by self-analysis of this kind can we purify our government and make it better." 
This week we will have a chance to ask a few questions. The movie Missing will be showing in the Engineering Auditorium tonight and tomorrow at 7:00, 9:1 5 and 
II :30 p.m. Admission is S I. On Thursday, Thomas Hauser will speak in the Library Auditorium at H p.m. Go to the movie. Think about it, and talk about it with vour friends. Then come to the Library Auditorium on Thursday with lots of questions. 
john Kennedy,jr. ( '79) Retunzed Peace Corps Volunteer Chile 

Massacre: indefensible barbarity 
DearEditor: most probable that they would have been them, in a sense, barbaric. All human 
In regard to Naim T. Boueri's response to the ones permitted inside the refugee bloodshed is somehow barbaric no matter my short article on the massacre of Pales­camps. Furthermore, Time, Newsweek and how noble the motivations may be. tinian civilians in Lebanon, I take issue with the New York Times have reported eyewit-As to any special experti-se in Lebanese several of his points. ness accounts of Phalangist participation. history, I claim none. However, my article 
First, he seems to suggest that the Phalan­As to the historical barbarity ofthe Phalan-dealt not with Lebanese history but human gists were not actually involved in the mas­gists, perhaps that is more open to question. responsiblity. To ask critical questions and 
sacre. Such . a claim appears highly As a group, the Phalangists, perhaps that is seek apprpriate answers requires n' untenable. There is no doubt that Christian more open tp question. As a group, the esoteric knowledge, only a concern for the militiamen were involved and as the Phalan­
Phalangists have their roots in Spanish fas-truth. gist group has been closely involved with Is­Thomas Melsheimet
cism and their forces have bee regarded as raeli forces throughout the conflict, it is Arts and Letters
efficient soldiers. This is enough to mal,;,e 
The Observer 

Editorial Board Department Managers 
II,. f )/Jiol ,., '' .111 lndq,cndt·n~ llL'"'l'.l!'l'f l'uhl"hl',i h· tilt 'tudent' nt the 
f.'ditor-in·('bt '{. ....... \lichael Monk Business Manager..... ..Tony Aidlo 
111\l'l'lt\' ot' 1\:tlt[l' n.une du [ ,~,-.IIlli S.urll r-.t.tr\'·, ( olll',l!l' It ,lllC\ l'•(lt llt'l'"·lfll) 
.Hanagin,~ f.'tft'or. .. ...... Ryan \'cr lkrkmoc:~ Controller ....................... ...Eric ~chul.f ~t·ll<~t the polz,w, of the .hilllllll\lr.ltiOir of L'lthn lll,tltlltloll The IlL""''' r<l'llrl f.'.wcutit•e .\'eu·. f.'ditor..... ................. Kelli flint Ad1•ertising Manager........ .Chri' owu1 l'•l ·" .11' urJtc:ly .111d ·'' ohtn t 1\ dy ·'' j'lh"hk. hlltOrJJI, f<'l't<''>l'nt the op1:JHH1 of S.\ICf.'.wcutit•eEditor... ... ~largarc:t Fo~moc: Production Manager.................. Maura .\turpin .1 m.qonty oi the hlllur1.tl Ho.~r,! ( •>·llllll'llt.trln. Ol'lllltlm .111,1 lettn' .tre the \'IL'W' .\j}()r/s Editor..... .. ........ CI1ri~ :'lic:c:Jie~ Circulation Manager .......................... Ra\· Inglin ot then Juthor' ( olumn 'l'.l,L' '' J\Jd.thk t,, .dl uwmht-r' ot the <OilllllU!ilt)'.•mJ f.'ditoria/s Editor.. . ... Paul .\tc(;inn .\)•stems Manager ........................... Hrun· Oaklt'l the Ire<.· expre\SIO!l ol \'H}'IIlg optn1om on ~.unpu>. through letter>. l> en~oungc:-J. Features Editor .................................Tari Brown Pboto t'tlllr1r... . ........ Racht:l Blount 
Founded November 3,1966
P.O.Hox <.!: :'l!~~!r~· D:!m;:. !\ -ih)';(l t.! 19) HlJ-'i505 

-
I 

~jb()~tS~I~(J~~~~~·~~~~S~=============================Tu=e=sd=a=y,=o=crto=b=er=1=2=,1=9=8=2==p=a=ge=s= 

lh Thl! IJhsl!rl'l!r and 1bl! Associull!d Pri!SS 
Saint Mary's basketball teatnwm hold tryou.ts tomorrow, Thursday and Friday from 6 to 8 in the Angela Athletic ND-SMC Ski Teatn announces a mandatory meetingFacility. They will also be held Saturday morning from 9 to II. For for all those interested in a Christmas vacation trip to Steamboat more information, call Tim Dillon at 284-5548. -The Observer Springs, Colo., to be held tomorrow night at H::\0 in the Lafortune Little Theatre. Please bring the S75. deposit. -The Observer. 

Stepan Center courtsare now available to halls and groups. Reservations for the Nov. I to April 8 period must be made by Friday. Reservation forms are available at the Student Activities Oftke in the LaFortune Studen:t Center. -The Observer 

Windsurfers are reminded that a meeting of their club will he held tomorrow night at 9 in the main lobby of Lafortune. Prospective members are welcome. -The Obseruer. 
Fellowship ofChristian Athletes will hold a meeting in Saint Ed's chapel at 8 p.m. tonight. All are invited. -The Observer. 

The Chief negotiatOrS for the National Football League's owners and players met with federal mediator Kay McMur­ray in Washington Monday as the search began for an intermediary
Office ofNon-Varsity AthletiCSannounceda 

to help settle the players' strike. In New York, NFL commissionndeadline of Oct. 13 for entering IH handball. IH racquetball, Grad­Pete Rozelle, who had said a 13-game regular season was the likelyFac racquetball, Co-Ree volleyball, Co-Ree basketball, Faculty vol­acceptable minimum before it would have to be scrapped, told Thelevball, and Grad. volleyball. The deadline for admission to the Associated Press the owners could change their minds and go with asi~-mile run is Oct.20. Further information can be obtained by call­I2-game season, or less. -AP
ing NVA at 239-5IOO.-The Obsen1er. 
APTop20 
The Top Twenty college football teams 1n The As­SOCiated Press poll. w1th ftrst-place votes 1n paren­theses, thiS season s records and total po.nts Po1nts based on 20-19·18-17 etc Notre Dame oponents are 
italicized  
1 Wash1ngton (31)  5·0-0  1.046  
2 Alabama ( 13)  5·0·0  1.016  
3 Pittsburgh (9)  4-0-0  996  
4 Georg1a (1)  5·0-0  909  
5 S Method1st  - 5-0·0  811  
6 Nebraska  4·1·0  752  
7 Arkansas  5-0·0  710  
8 Penn State  4-7-0  678  
9 Notre Dame  4-0-0  672  
10 Anzona State  6-0·0  660  
11 North Carol1na  4·1·0  572  
12 UCLA  4·0·1  471  
13. West V1rgm1a  4·1·0  429  
14 Southern Cal  3-1-0  403  
15 llhnOIS  5·1·0  287  
16 Lou151ana State  3-0-1  174  
17 Miam1, Fla.  4-2-0  155  
18 Texas  3·1·0  141  
19 Ftonda State  4·1·0  110  
20 Clemson  3-J.t  89  

Write the Sports b'ditor 
P.O.BoxQ 
--------------------, 
The Observer wrll accept classrfteds Mon­~ay rr,rou9•, f r ,Jay. 10 am. to 4 30 p.m However. c1ass1fteds to appear tn the nextrssue must be rece1ved by 3 p.m. the bustness day pnor to tnsertton All classtfteds must be prepatd 
etther tn person or through the mat I 

Classifieds 
NOTICES 
IS YOUR HAIR GETTING IN THE WAY OF YOUR STUDIES?? CALL MtCHOLE FOR A HAIRCUT TODAY! ONLY $4 FOR GUYS AND $6 FOR GIRLS BEST TO CALL AFTER 3 AT 7850 
WORD PROCESSING SYSTEM $2995 64K Mlcrocomputer,letter quality pnnter. word processing software, CP/M, Bas1c. Call277-7720 
Lake M1chigan beach cottage 30 m1. from ND Sleeps 12 Fireplace Outdoor bar­beque Ideal tor housepart1es $150 3 day weekend phone 616 469 0148 
NEED A AIDE TO BUFFALO OVER FALL BREAK..WILL PAY CALL ROB 6721 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
NOTE DESIGN EDITOR: Put the follow­Ing Information under the heading 
JOB BANK 
FOREVER LIVING PRODUCTS Contact · Roger Thorn -362-7276 Posit1on Available: Distributors 
CIRCLE LUMBER, INC. Contact · Cra1g T aetman · 287-5971 
ATHLETIC ANNEX Contact-Tom Lower· 272-7565 Contact· Mark Tobolski-291·6798 Part-ttme postttons avatlable 
WYGANT FLORAL CO. Contact: Dorothy DeClerck· 232-3354 Postttons avatlable: Dnver & C~erk 
UNITED CONSUMER'S OF SOUTH fiEND Contact Andrew Sp1te-233-2204 Posttton Avatlable: Tele./Publtc Relattons 
MILADY SHOP 
Contact: Patty Tony-277·3200 
Pos1t1on Available: Cashter If more tnformatton is needed, call Bob Yonchak or Anne Chapsk1 at 7668 
COLORADO FOR BREAK!! PLEASE HELP TWO WILD DOMERS REACH THE ROCKIES ..NEED A ONE-WAY AIDE TO ANY PART OF CO WILL SHARE USUAL. AND CAN BRING BACK RIDERS.CALL LORI at 7801 OR DIANA at 6983 DESPERATE!!!!! 
TYPING: EX-LEGAL SECRETARY 272­5337 
Fkyung F1ngers typ1ng serv1ce Proofreading and edi!lng Included. 85 at page Margaret or Ann 277-1624 
ILOST/FOUND \ 
LOi'T Green notebook & folder Call Steve at 1855 
LOST: ONE BLUE AL300 STATS BOOK BY ANDERSON ET AL IF YOUVE FOUND ONE RECENTLY OR COULD SELL ME ONE. PLEASE CALL KEITH at 1169 
ORANGE ~TONE CALL GINA 6553 CALL GINA o553 
To whomever picked up my CORDUROY JACKET outs1de the south dmmng hall on Fnday, Why do you you want it? Irs too old and beat-up tor any respectable per­son to wear bull WANT IT BACK!!! If you have it lot any reason tt has my name in it, so call AI at 3423. 
LOST: Tt55 Calculator on Fnday, 9/23 Call John LEcuyer at 232-0550. Kathy · the one who called about my calculator Please call me aga1n You gave me the wrong number 
LOST· Hewlett·Packard calculator 1n black leather·like pouch II was leff 1n e1ther 214 Math/computer or the AudJtonum in Cushing. If you know any­thing about 1!. please call John K1lcran at 8534 
Whoever "FOUND.. my I D. and football 11x Saturday for $10, please return them as stated in our verbal contract. K Hew· son, 261 C.C E 283-7443 
LOST 1 AICOH MENS WRIST WATCH PLEASE RETURN REWARD CALL JOE 1188 
LOST KEYS ON N D KEY CHAIN CALL BETHAT5131 SMC 
FOR SALE 
USED 3 PIECE LIVING ofllOOM SET 250 00 -233· 2821 
TICKETS 
WILL PAY BIG MONEY FOR 4 PENN STATE GA TIX. CALL 312 565-5959 COLLECT AND ASK FOR STEVE LONGLEY. 
Wanted 4 ttckets tn a row· to Anzona game Call288·0955 or 277·3604 
NEED 6 ARIZ GAS-DOUG at 6166 
HELP! Need Anzona t1x lor lam1ly Call Kat,e6781 
NEED ANY KIND OF PENN STATE TtX CALL MEG-7628 
DESPERATE I NEED 2·4 PENN STATE GAS RIGHT NOW·-WILL PAY$$$ CALL JIM 3132 NOW·PLEASEI!' 
VOLUPTUOUS LITTLE SISTER has never seen an N D. game! Her LAST and 
'ONLY chance IS PENN ST She and her entourage need 2 GAs and 3 stud. t1x. Were talk1ng BIG$$ here!' Joe. 1652 
East coast parents need Penn St GAs 11 .you can help call Donna at 54 72 SMC P S. I also need Anzona stud 11x. Help! 
, 
NEED 2 OR 4 ARIZONA GA TICKETS $$$CALL MIKE AT 1475 
NEED PENN ST GAs BIG TIME! $$$ CALL 1627 
NEED 2 PAIR PITT GAs PHIL 1764 
NEED 4 OR 5 ARIZONA GAs CALL TOM 8729 
NEE:D 2 OR MORE GAS FOR ARIZONA CALL EILEEN AT SMC 5239 
I NEED 2 GAs lor Anzona. Please call Teresa at 7130 
DESPERATE. Need 2 ARIZONA GA's. Please call Michele, 3793. Thanks. 
WE NEED ARIZONA & PENN ST GAs CALL DON OR DAVE AT 1850 
Will trade FIRST· BORN MALE Child plus $$$ for TWO ARIZONA GAs Call Joe at 289-5964 
FOR SALE: 1 STUDENT TIC FOR ARIZONA ,J, PENN STATE. BEST OF­FER CALL 277-8194 

W1tltrade Anzona GAs lor Penn State TIX Call8125 
DESPERATELY NEED PENN TIX. BOTH GA & STUDENT CALL SUE AT 283·7389 
For Sale: 2 Anzona GAs (also w/trade lor 2 Penn State GAs & cash) Call1195 
NEED TWO TIX STUD OR G.A FOR ARIZONA 
HELP I NEED ARIZ GAS CALL ROB 6827 
DESPERATELY NEED 3 GAS FOR ARIZONA; COULD MEAN EMPLOYE NT CALL STEVE AT 232-0550 
wanted desperately! lix lor the penn st game. Will pay bux deluxe. matt 277­4573. 
t NEED 2 STUDENT TICKETS OR 2 GAs FOR ARIZONA PLEASE CALL CAROLYN AT 8067 
Need Anzona GAs call1741 
I NEED MUGHO ARIZONA TIX. JOE 1154 
TRADE PARENTS HAVE 4 GAS FOR ARIZONA BUT CANT MAKE IT WANT TO TRADE 2 OR 4 ARIZONA TICK S FOR THE SAME PENN TICKS. MUST KNOW BY WED CALL BILL, 1434 
NEED TWO G A s FOR ARIZONA CALL JIM AT 282·1527 
NEED ARIZONA TIX x1173 Tom 
RIDE NEEDED TO WASHINGTON DC.. FOR OCTOBER BREAK CALL BREN· DAN ANYTIME··WILL SHARE THE USUAL..·7997 
RIDE NEEDED to Minnesota for Oc­tober Break. Call Cathy, 3793. ThanksI 
NEED RIDERS TO CLEIIELAND OCT 15·18 call Denn1s 289·2511 
3 GIRLS DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO DC FOR BREAK CALL 6781 
NEW YORK NEW YORK NEED RIDE TO NYC for October Bk W1ll share usual PLUS good cook1es Call Joann at 6239 
OCTOBER BREAK Need a nde lor 2 down to the M1am1/Ft Lauderdale area. W1ll share costs Please call6965 
need nde to CONNECTICUT for OCT 
BREAK Doug x8389 
RIDE NEEDED TO KANSAS CITY (OR TO ANYWHERE ALONG t·70 WEST OR 1·35 SOUTH! FOR BREAK WILL SHARE USUAL · CALL KATE AT 4376 
TWO GIRLS NEED RIDE TO PHILL Y FOR BREAK WILL SHARE USUAL CALL CELESTE AFTER 7 X7895 
NEEDED AIDE or AIDES to PITTS· BURGH'!! call TOM 1754 or BRIAN. 6105!! (lor fall break).. PITTSBURGH. p11tsburgh, PITTSBURGH. pittsburgh .. 
2 ndes needed to Dayton lor the weekend of October 15·17 Will share usual call Bngette x1333or Tony x8514 
Alders needed to Daytona Beach, Florida or any pOints along the way lor October Break Call Denny at 277-0838 soon DRIVING TO OR THRU S DAKOTA FOR OCT BREAK? I NEED A RIDE·CALL MARLENE 2963 
RIDERS wanted on 1-80 east to central PA (exlt31 or near). Call Greg at 1758. 
I NEED A RIDE TO BOSTON IF I DON T GET TO BOSTON I HAVE TO GO SEE MY PARENTS SO TAKE ME TO BOS­TON WITH YOU 
CHRIS 1774 
RIDERS needed to N.H or BOSTON for Oct. break Call Mark al3372. 
RIDERS NEEDED TO NORTH CAROLINA FOR FALL BREAK CALL KAREN AT 2966 
RIDE NEEDED FOR TWO TO BOSTON FOR OCT BREAK CALL ME, STEVE, AT 234·9580 
NEED nders or nde to PITTSBURGH area on weekendof0ct16 & 17 Call Tony 277·3067 or 239-6328 
NEED RIDE FOR 2 TO MPLS/ST PAUL FOAOCT BREAK CALL35740R3575 
Need two ndes to ROCHESTER, NY on Fn Oct 22. Call M1ke 8265 
I need nde to BOSTON Oct Brk Joan 2702 
LETS GO TO CtNCtNATTI NEED RIDERS FOR (15th) WEEKEND CALL 8531 
GOING TO CENTRAL JERSEY? 2 OF US NEED A RIDE THERE FOR BREAK CALL DON AT x1630 
MISSING DRAMA and SUSPENSE Come see what 11 s all about Oct 12.13 Show1ngs 7.9:15.11.30 Engr Aud 
DOES THE U.S GOV T TELL US ALL IT KNOWS ABOUT THOSE MISSING ? Showmg Oct 12.13 Engr Aud 7,9·15.1130 
Send Personals to sophomores study1ng abroad! Messages will be pnnted m newsletter for students tn tore1gn sludtes program Bnng to 317 Mornssey or 212 Pasquenlla West 
TRUE TALE TO BE TOLD ABOUT IN· TERNATIONALCOVER·UP MISSING Oct 12.13 Engr Aud 7.9 15.11 :30 
Have you ever been assessed a stuptdtty 
fee? If so, GET A CLUE I If your behaviOr tmproves, you mtght JUS! get a rebate­Right Ellen? 
SENIORS!'SENtORS!!Ciass T·Sh1rts have arnved Short supply so get yours early from DORM REP MAKE THE UN· DERCLASSMEN JEALOUSIISENIORS!' 
Dear R1ch Stangler. 
Congratulattons on your acceptance to the UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA MEDICAL SCHOOL I love iOU. Anne 
TO THE GANG SATURDAY NIGHT WAS GREAT' THANK YOU FOR BEING MY FRIENDS B L S 
Want to earn a few extra dollars? Do you have Tuesdays. noon to 3 free? If so. JOtn the Observer staff We are iookmg for a Tuesday day ed1tor lor the Sa1nt Marys ofl1ce Interested? Galt Margaret. 284· 4316 for more mfo or stop tty the ND 
oH1ce Start check1ng out those lax stet­ters.. 
R1de needed to the Ph1la area Will share expenses Call Karen, SMC-5531 
HELP! I need a nde to the Atlanta area! Will share expenses Call Mary, SMC· 5531 
Dear Dbe Hauluf Borste: Cchastlivee dyen rozhd'yenya The lady s horse xopowo · (P)Em1l 
SF BAY AREA RES. ARE YOU READY FOR X·MAS BREAK? RESERVE YOUR RIDE HOME $240 THERE & BACK. AT· TEND THE MEETING TONITE 7:30 LAFORTUNE THEATER 
need flders to Boston tor Oct break call SCHOONER at277-1806 
HI!!! I M DAN BAUAKOT CALL ME AT 8431 PLEASE!!! 
DID YOU MISS IT? SOME OF YOU JUST ABOUT MISSED ITI II you are readtng thts though, you have no excuse tor not knowmg that the second meettng of the Notre Dame New Musik Society w1t be held ton1ght. Wednesday the 12th, at 8:3Q 1n the Aud1tonum of the Architecture bu1ld1ng. All 132 who showed up tasl week should make the meet1ng 1f they want to fmd out about the WEEKEND TERMINAL BLAST. II you want to check 11 out and meet the people to know at Notre Dame. be there Come talk to Barney Rebel and the rest Some ofyou just aboutm1ssedit. 
TODAY S MY BIRTHDAY!! 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO ME !I 
TODAYS MY BIRTHDAY!! 
ROBERT.. The California Angels were QUICHE EATERS and the St Lou1s Card1nals are next!! I can smell that ptzza now 
HEY WHOLE WORLD' I love Mo sears' The C1der Chef 
BOBBY. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY. LITTLE BROTHER!! 
YOU RE THE BEST A BIG SISTER 
(WHO HAS TROUBLE PLAYING PAC· 
MAN & PAINTING MAILBOXES) COULD 
ASK FOR LOVE, 
ANGIE 
P S SOMEDAY I M GOING TO BEAT 
YOU AT ATARI 
HELP. I need a nde to COLORADO for Oct break Call M1ke at 8435 
DEAR LITTLE K BEAR, Happy 9th cut1e'l m1ss you very much Love from the BIG K BEAR 
MEGAN..LOOSE AS A MOOSE AT 
NOTRE DAME. 
YOUR HOROSCOPE FOR OCT 12. 1982 MANY PEOPLE WILL CELEBRATE THE ENDING OF YOUR SECOND DECADE LOOK FORWARD TO RECEIVING NUMEROUS HUGS AND KISSES. EXPECT A DASH OF COLOR TO BE ADDED TO YOUR LIFE BUT BEWARE OF BOYS BEARING GIFTS. AND YOU LL BE CERTAIN TO HAVE A HAPPY BIRTHDAY' 
LOVE. 
YOUR ROOMIES 
ST. LOUIS-HERE WE AREII You saw the personal, you met the challenge, and now we'll hold up our end of the deal. Thank you Darrell Porter lor the MVP award, thank you Willie McGee lor the timely hmlng, thank you Bruce Sut­ter for your golden arm, and thank you Tom Herr for juat being there. And thank you Br-ers for beetlng the An­gels and preserving the integrity of the 
American League. Now we otart on the quest for the WORLD CHAMPION­SHIPI Love ya, Cards -from L-akl and Shorta. 
P.S. Jeff Jeffera, we'll stop by the Ramedaln your memory. 
Important LADIES OF COLUMBUS meet1ng tomght at 7pm. at the K of C 
Wanted: lnformat1on {name & number) of one cute blonde g1rl who danced w1th me Fnday at Keenan s beach party You: wh1te shorts. red sh1rt & wh1te sweatshirt Me White tape on nght hand & white sweatshirt If you are her or know of her. please call T C. at 1188 
Rastafarill Punkersll Tedsll Waversll Raatafarillt The second ofl1C1al mee11ng of the FirSt Notre Dame New Mus1k Soc1ety is hereby bopp1ng at 8:30, tonight. Wednesday the 12th, 1n the Aud1tonu of the Archlleeclure Bu1ld1ng. Barney Rebel hereby 1nv11es you and your stster to dtscuss newsletter plans, the campus system for organtza­ttonal tnformation, the record library, ...and oh, yeah, the I plans for th1s weekends first NUCLEAR PARTY 
If you have any questions, or are to scared to come, or you don't want to give it up (your time, that is), or you aren't one of the 732 people who have already signed up lor the Organization, call Bar­ney Reba/ at 8489 or Robbi at 3479. All those who have already s1gned up. BE THERE OR BEWARE. 
WAY TO GO BREWERS' TRUEBLUEBREWCAEW NO 1! GO BREWERS! 
KAREN I M AE,OLL Y NICE! BAAAAAA DO YOU LIKE CHEESE? HOW DO YOU FEEL ABOUT CARTS? 
VIVIAN I M MAD AS HELL AND I M NOT GONNA TAKE YOU ANYMOAE1 MEAT 
TO THE LADIES AT PORTAGE AND AN· GELA THANKS FOR SAVING ME FROM THE POSSIBILITY OF A SOBER WEEKEND OH. and Go BREWERS" 
$240 SF & BACK FOR X·MAS BREAK· RESERVE YOUR TICKET HOME TONtTE 7 30 LAFORTUNE THEATER 
Four years huh? Vice dealers back home only get2-3 at San Quentin. I guess it has been fun.. Thanks guys, 
Ry 
Ryan. 
Four years and st1ll only a figurehead (or IS that Bonehead?) ? Only a really weird person could hang around th:s icky, messy place for tour years I can 
, hardly wa1t for your fifth anmversary We can throw a party m MY off1ce (Don t worry. Ill tel you be my manag1ng ed1tor) 
Love. Your favonte autocrat 
Oh, the human1ty Heres wtshtng you many more stuptd. wasted years, Ver Berkmoes No one deserves to stay here. longer than you -not even me 
Moooo (S1ghl 
Dallas D Were tatkmg WAR When yot\ least expecttl-BEW~RE!! -J R s tnend-
We love you'! H1 Eggy We love you'! ·3Bs· 
Ms Knee W1cked good news' Get Bent!' B· cubed 
A1de W1th The T1de Vote She1la FLOOD lor Freshmen Counc1l on Oct 14 P S Noahd1d!! 
To the blond. blue eyed Adonts who was 1n Sect1on 35. Row 54. seat 21. at the M1am1game You belong on the cover of GO It was lust atlirSt Sight' What s your number? An Ad· m1rer from Sectton 34 

..L.~..~::~~~~----~~.~~··,~\----------~..----------------~--------------------~~·~;~·,~.~.,--~------~~~~.~~.--~~~--~----~--~~--~.~.:---~-----------------~--~.~.~~~..~.~~..==~-~.:-----.·.~.:-~~~~·~·,:,"'
I ,·. l 
The Observer Tuesday, October 12, 1982 -page 9 
Bradley sweeps ND in w-eekend tw-inbill 
In the bottom ot that inning the By NEAL SMITH Irish had another scoring oppor­Sports Writer tunity. The number nine hitter 
reached third on a two base throw­

The Notre Dame baseball team, ing error and a passed ball with no now 3-7, were defeated in a outs, but the top three batters of the doubleheader 6-3 and 5-I by Brad­order could not knock him in. ley University here Sunday. A Both teams scored a run in the S•:heduled contest between the sixth. Bradley's run came on a solo same two teams Saturday was rained home by clean-up hitter Jim Lin­out. deman. Notre Dame scored its run 
''I'm discouraged and disgusted. It on a David Clark double offthe fence 
was a poor display of mental and after Dingle h~d singled, cutting 
physical baseball ... the inexperience Bradley's lead to 4-2. 
showed today," said Coach Larry In the tina! inning the Braves ob­
Gallo. "The doubleheader was lost tained two unearned runs. The Irish 
in the tlrst game. "It was as though added one, making the final6:.3. 
we said, 'Here we go again,'" con­Bill Stonikas was the losing 
tinued Gallo. He added, "We lost pitcher for Notre Dame. 
seven games this season because of "Stonikas should have won .3-I. 
defense. I wish we would get the We gave them five runs," com­
crap beat out of us, like I 5-I instead mented Gallo. "Stonikas threw a 
of 5-I, so we can say that it just great game." 
wasn't our day." In the second game, Bradley Bob Forsch (left) willpitchfor the St. Louis Car­Series opens at Busch Stadium in St. Louis. (AP 
The biggest difference between started a rally with two outs in the dinals and Mike Caldwell will get the callfor the Photos) 
the two teams in the doubleheader first off Irish pitcher Bill Matre. Milwaukee Brewers tonil(ht as the 79th World 
was the Braves' lead-off quartet. The Frank Schramko tripled off the fence 
four hitter~ batted better than .400 and was knocked in on a double by 
for the day, had tlve extra base hits, Lindeman on a 0-2 count. The 
contributed six of the team's eight following batter got an infield hit 
Cards, Brewers set for Series opener
RBI and scored eight of the team's and stole second. On the throw 
1 I runs. In comparison, Notre trying to catch the runner stealing 
Dame's top tlve hitters were under second, Lindeman came from third 
ST. LOUIS (AP) -Ted Simmons, games of the Series would be played the other hand, there are the Car­.200 at the plate, had no extra base to score another run. 
the Milwaukee Brewers catcher, was in St. Louis on Tuesday and Wednes­dinals -with the fewest home runs in hits, only one RBI and scored a meas­With ;,nother two-out rally, the 
philosophical. He talked about big day. either league this year, 66, yet with a ley two runs. Without Phil Dingle, Braves made it 3-0 in the second. 
guys and little guys, about struggles Simmons' locker room soliloquy, team batting average of.264, second who was four-for-six on the day, the Followmg a single and a stolen base, 
for survival and why they are won although he did not know it at the highest in the National League. 
tlrst tlve Irish batters would have Adam Demsey knocked in a run with 
and lost. time, may have been prophetic. It The Cardinals won the NL Eastbeen two-for-27 at the plate. a double. 
That was several days ago, when seemed to sum up the way this with pitching, defense and speed, al­"When the defense is bad, the hit­Bradley scored again in the fourth 
the Brewers were struggling to stay World Series would take shape. though the natural grass of Mil­ters and pitchers try to make up for when ;; hit that was lost in the sun by 
alive in the American League "If you have IO big guys and IO waukee County Stadium probablyit," remarked Gallo. "The pitchers the leftfielder went for a triple. The 
playoffs. Not only did they survive, little guys," he said, "the I 0 big guys will negate some of that advantage
and batters press themselves too runner scored on a routine ground-they accomplished the greatest usually win. But that's not always the The Brewers, meanwhile, con­
much." e~ . 
turnaround in playoff history by way it works out in baseball. The quered the AL East with power, aIn the tlrst game the Irish 'jumped The Irish scored its lone run in the beating the California Angels in nature of the game is such that you solid defense, more power, some out to a 1-0 lead in the tlrst inning. bottom of the inning. Jim Dee three straight games after losing the never know what will happen." decent pitching, and still moreWith two outs, Rick Chryst reached reached third on a three base throw­
first two. Baseball's 1982 version of Big vs. power.
base on an error, stole second and ing error by the Brave pitche~ Mike Milwaukee's comeback set up the Small is personified by this World "The Brewers are an excellent hit­scored on a single by Dingle. Doming proceeded to knock in Dee 
team's World Series clash with the Series. ting team," St. Louis Manager WhiteyAn inning later Notre Dame had with a single. 
St. Louis Cardinals, who completed a On the one hand, there are the Herzog said, "just like the Braves.
another scoring threat, but two run­Bradley added another, unearned 
three-game sweep of the Atlanta Brewers -baseball's home run kings But ifour pitchers do the same con­ners were thrown out trying to steal run to complete the scoring at 5-1. 
Braves in the National League with 2I6 during the regular season, sistent job they've done the first
third base. Brett Hatch was the winning playoffs Sunday night. brute force with a capital "B." On three games, we'll do OK."
In the top of the third, the Braves Brave pitcher as he struck out eight 
Game One of the Series is 
loaded the bases with two outs on batters and allowed only five hits. 
scheduled for 7:15 p.m. tonight at 
two intleld hits and a walk. The Notre Dame left I I men on base 
Busch Stadium in St. Louis with 
ATTENTION: SENiORS!
following batter singled to center, during the game. 
Game Two here tomorrow night.
knocking in two runs. The throw The Irish will host Bethel College 
Following a travel day, the Series 
Turn in your Yearbook Portrait Proofs! 
from center to third got passed the this afternoon at 3:30 on Jake Kline 
resumes with three games, if all are
third baseball, allowing another run Field. The game is a make-up for an 
needed, in Milwaukee--on Friday,
to score. It made the score 3-I. earlier rainout. 
Saturday and Sunday. The final two ­
Where: LaFortune Student Center, Rm. 20 

. 1st floor 
Irish ninth 
T1mes: 9:30am-1:30pm and 2:30pm -5:00 pm
'Batna tnakes tnove in APpoll 
Dates: October 11-15 
By HERSCHEL NISSENSON votes and 1,046 of a possible 1,080 following a .33-10 triumph over Mis­AssociatedPress points from a nationwide panel of sissippi, SMU polled 811 points after 
Please see the Varden Representative as indicated 
sports writers and broadcasters. defeating Baylor 22-19 and Alabama, a 42-21 winner over Alabama jumped from fourth to Nebraska whipped Colorado 40-12 Penn State, moved past idle Pitt into second with 13 first-place ballots for 752 points. 
A-E: October 11
second place Monday in The As­and 1,016 points and Pitt received sociated Press college football poll, nine firsts ·and 996 points, while Arkansas, a 21-3 victor over Texas 
F-J: October 12 
while Florida State made the ratings Penn State slipped from third to Tech, rose from ninth to seventh 
K -0: October 13
for the first time thi~ season and eighth. with 710 points, followed by Penn defending national champion Clem­State with 678 and Notre Dame-the 
P-S: October 14 
son climbed back into the Top Georgia, Southern Methodist and Irish downed Miami 16-14 -with Twenty after a three-week absence. Nebraska each moved up one spot to 672. Arizona State turned back Stan­
T-Z: October 15 
The Washington Huskies, im­fourth, fifth and sixth, respectively. ford 2 I -1 7, and moved up from 11th 
Thank you for your cooperation

pressive 50-7 winners over Califor­Georgia received the remaining place to round out the Top Ten with 
Your Yearbook Staff

nia, received 3 I of 54 first-place first-place vote and 909 points 660 points. 



lAW S~llUUl ~AI24~A~t 
Over 35 schools represented Stepan Center Wed., Oct. 13, 10 a.m. -4:30p.m. 

. ' h 
/ 
."
../ ~ ~ / ~ 

***-***·**********·******* *******\ 
* We Welcome All Students. «! Especially the 'The Knights of the Castle' ~ iC -Men's Hair Styling-! 
~ ~-~! r-._'~ For the total look on a styled (J'l£~ee11S ~ i( / ""-. ;. ''7"~ Hair Cut, Shampoo, l/ ~ ~ ·.\ Blow Dry, Condition fte « « Regular $15.00 _ ~ 
272 0312 

~ Now 8.50 with coupon • 
• 54533 Terrace Lane ~ ~ !irs. Tue, Wed, Sat 8:30-5::\0 Across from Martin's (St. Rd. 23) .. ~ ~hur. Fri 8'w-8:;o We are only minutes from campus ~ 
~ Closed Mon ~ 
_. *********** COUPON *£************' 
~ TheObserver Tuesday, October 12, 1982 -page I 0 
...Skip 


IF YOU THINK IT DOESN'T 
I 
MA'I'I'ER WHERE YOU GET CONTACTS, YOU OUGHT TO HAVE YOUR EYES 
• 
Where you choose to get your contact After selecting the right lenses for you, a lenses can make a difference. At Nu Vision, Nu Vision professional will make sure you we do everything to make the experience of are comfortable with them. Whether you're getting contacts a pleasant one. It starts wearing hard lenses, soft lenses, gas 
with a thorough eye examination by a permeable lenses, or the new extended wear Doctor of Optometry. The examination he lenses, we'll make sure you know how to administers is specifically designed to put them on, and how to care for them. evaluate your eyes so he can write your prescription for contact lenses. Nu Vision offers contact lenses at reasonable 
prices. But what makes us different is our We offer the latest developments in contact own brand of care. From eye examination lenses at NuVision. Ask about them. The through follow-up visits you get Doctor of Optometry will take the time to professional care at Nu Vision. So when explain the differences and recommend the you've decided you want contacts, come to best one for your vision. NuVision. The difference is clear. 
SOFT CONTACT lENSES 
from Bausch & lomb and American Hydron Bausch 8t Lomb and American Hydron Spherical Soft Contacts are now just $49. Price includes: 
$49 

Introductory Care Kit; 30-day Trial COMPLETE Wearing Plan; Follow-up Visits. 
234-3123 277-2281 256-1864 LaSalle Square University Commons McKinley Town & County SOUTH BEND MISHAWAKA MISHAWAKA 
We put the care back in eyecare. 

continuedfrom page 12 
after last year's disaster, are too quick to interpret signs of improve­ment as signs ofan impending cham­pionship. Two weeks in a row, Mike Johnston has had to win bai­Igames single-handedly. 
A great kicker does not a national championship make. 
But a great defense might. And here the Irish are, quite literally, second to none. Though the Hur­ricanes had more success on the ground than anyone ese this year, it is important to note that Kevin Grif­fith missed much of the game with a knee bruise. He will almost certainly be back in time fort the stretch drive 
that lies ahead. 
Notre Dame cannot win on defense alone once it starts to play teams like Pitt, Penn State, and Southern CaL t But there is no doubt that the Irish have done just that so far. Had it not been for two Dave Duerson interceptions, and an An­thony Carter groin pull, Michigan may have driven for the winning score, and Michigan State may have tied the Irish on a similar late drive. 
must utilize Joe Howard more ef­fectively, in order to draw away the triple-team coverage Tom· Hunter has battled latel t y. In s~rt.. Notre Dame has got to get in the end zone more often. 
We must come down off the clouds -fans and players alike. A difficuh road lies ahead Notre Dame has the talent to beat e\'eryone left on the schedule. But that talent ha'i yet to play to its full potential. 
Until it does, keep the champagne corked. 
But keep it cold, just in case. 

Let's see, that would make the Irish 2-1-l right now. 
But for a few inches, Joe Kohlbrand would have waltzed into the end zone with a screen pass in­tended for Carter. 
Let's see, that would make the Irish l-2-1 right now. 
Sure, there are bright spots. But there are some serious weaknesses in this team. Blair Kiel must begin to play like he did against Arizona in 1980, or even like he did against Michigan a few weeks ago. The Irish 
. . . Volleyball 

continuedfrom page 12 
They're getting it now. They make their errors, but it seems that they're learning from their mistakes." 
The Indiana University-Purdue University at Fort Wayne Invitation­al this past weekend points out the weaknesses left in the wake of the injuries. Vanslager and Anderson were forced to use every player on the roster while the team lost two of three matches ~nd h:ui to settle for eighth place in the 12-team field . 
."With our starting six, we shouldn't have lost to any of the other teams," said Anderson. 
There was one bright spot. however, as freshman walk-on Sue Medley, who had played very little this year, performed very well 
"She didn't make any crucial er­rors," explained Anderson. "She passed the ball real well and playeda good team game where other girls played individually, noc playing their positions well It comes with lack ofexperience." 
The injuries have come at a bad time. The team is the midst of a grueling road schedule that will not end until November 12. Tonight it travels to Southwestern Michigan College to take on the host team and Kellogg College. lbere is another triangular meet Thursday in Chicago. 
...Golf 
continuedfrom page 12 
The Irish went into yesterday's play with high hopes. Leyes notched an impressive 75 on Sunday, tying him for the first round lead. Notre Dame scored an identical 399 on both days, but Southern lllinois played a superb second round, jum­ping from sixth place to third. 
"We are very proud of the team. They performed well during the fall season. We are hopeful that the spring sea'iOn will be just as success­ful then," O'Sullivan stated, "this has been my best team in the fall in my ten years here." 
, , , Kickers 
continuedfrom page 12 
16 more field goals that year. 
After Saturday, senior Mike Johnston has enabled the torch to. burn even brighter with his field goals of 29, 42 and 32 yards -the latter coming with only II seconds left as it provided the winning 16-14 margin. For the season he is 9-of-9 in field goals. 
As Coach Gerry Faust ha.'i said, he earned the scholarship that was given to him this year. 
And he has earned his own niche in the legendary pantheon of Notre Dame heroes. 
~:~j~~i:; , I 
! I 
I531 N. Michigan St.• 
South Bend
I I 
l, Phone 133-4957 M nw no I 

-·------~ -·-------~-------~~----~.. ~-~..,....~~~..._--.......--~~---~--~----­
-~-. . --~----. .. .. ·-. ------.. ­
. 

Ihe~r======================================== 
T0 d~x===============T=u=e=sct=a=y='=o=c=t=o=be=r=I2=,=I=9=8=2==p=a=g=e=I=I 
Campus

Doonesbury 
WHAT IS YOll 
NAME, MORTAL? AND WHAT HAVE If I(
YOU COME FOR? I
/ 
simon ttlbbury, rr:Jelorci.. ~ 
e\Lih. d 

f01 me ... uh ... 
\ 


HAH HAH MH
SPEAK 
I; 

)'(XJ AMU~E 
!f 

ME f(X)L!
:;
L£~kkl 
i' 

I /1I
I I 

'l/.
I 
~ 
I
I! 

.' 
j.
il 

'I
I 
ACROSS 26 Expedite 1 Cafe item 29 Directed 
5 Mogul 32 Arabian 
viceroy head cord 10 Aleutian 33 Like a 

island lawn 14 Presently 35 Cuckoo 15 Addis -36 Sanctum 16 Place for or tube 
a farmer 38 Egg: pref. 17 Certain 39 Polio breads vaccine 18 Bungle name badly 41 Holiday 19 Fencing in Hanoi 
foil 42 Certain 20 1492 hero fishermen 22 Assert 45 Moral flaw 24 Fishing 46 A backer 
need of20A 25 At full 48 Montana speed city 
The Daily Crossword 
Monday's Solution 
©1982 Tribune Company Sy1dicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 

10112181 
Garry Trudeau 

~ 
Jeb Cashin 
AH, WHRT 
FOOlS 1ijfS£
SlU1)Et4T5
1£. 
I 
c~~! 
1 5lll' 5E I. 
CI\N ALWAY':> 
WORK IN A 
1\·MA:RT... 
~ 
•12:10 
p.m. -Art Noontalk, "Antiquity and the Medieval Sculptor," Susan Madigan, Notre Dame, Annenberg Auditorium 

•4:30 
p.m.-Biology Seminar, "How the Sperm Pricks the Egg," Dr. William Eckberg, 278 Galvin Life Sciences 

•7 
p.m. -Arts and Letters Business Society Presentation on Careers, Dean Waddick, Paul Reynolds, 124 Hayes-Healy 

•7 
p.m. -Film, "Food First," Volunteer Room, HC, Sponsored by SMC Hunger Coalition, 

•7 
p.m. -Assertion Training Workshops, For information and registration call 239·7336, Spon~red by Counseling and Psychological Services Center 

•7, 
9:15, and 11:30 p.m. -Film, "Missing," 


Engineering  Auditorium,  Sponsored  by  CILA,  
SLOO  
•7, 9,  and  11  p.m.  - Film,  "East  of Eden,"  

Chautauqua Coffeehouse, Sponsored by NDSU, Sl.OO 
•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Faith, Reason, and the Col­lege Curriculum: Before and After Vatican II," Prof. Philip Gleason, Notre Dame, Sponsored by SMC Humanistic Department, Carroll Hall 

•8 
p.m. -Fellowship of Christian Athletes Meeting, St. Ed's Chapel 

•9 
p.ni -Right to Life Debate, Little Theatre, Lafortune 

•1 
0 p.m. -Call in Talk Show, Speaking ofSports, Van Pearcy, WSND-AM 64, Sponsored by WSND­AM64 

•Midnight-Broadway 
Show Tunes, Nocturne Night Flight, WSND-FM 88.9, Sponsored by WSND­FM 88.9 


. T.V. Tonight 
6p.m. 
6:30p.m. 
7p.m. 
7:30p.m. 8P.M. 
8:30p.m. 
9p.m. 9:30p.m. 10p.m. 
10:30p.m. 
llp.m. 
11:30 
16 NewsCenter I 6 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 2H 
34 The MacNeil/Lehrer Report 
16 22 28 34  M•A•s•H Family Feud Tic Tac Dough Straight Talk  
16 22 28 34 28  World Series Game I Bring Em Back Alive Happy Days Sneak Previews Laverne and Shirley  
22 28 34 28  CBS Tuesday Night Your Best Shot" Three's Company Mystery 9 to<;  Movie:  "Take  
28  Hart to Hart  

34 The River in the Desert 
16 Ne\ ·<Center I 6 
22 22 E> ·:witness News 
28 New~"'atch 2H 
34 Dick Cavett Show 
16 Tonight Show 
22 Quincy and McMillan & Wife 
28 ABC News Nightline 
34 Captioned ABC News 
28 Fantasy Island 16 Late Night with David Letterman 
-
::. 

S.U.'s Billy Squier Lottery 
~ '1\ 


50 Forms 51 Location 52 -longue 54 Contriving 58 Fling 59 Lyon's 
river 61 Global section 62 Grenoble girl friend 63 Antisocial one 64 Sharp 
taste 65 Lacerate 66 Long time 67 Epochs 
DOWN 
1 Playwright Connelly 2 Greek war 
goddess 3 Coward 4 Not artful 5 Arresting 6 Circa 7 Buddhist 
temples 8 Alphabetic start 
9 Site of historic landfall 
10 Kind of 
penguin 11 Trustworthy 12 Shake­
(hurry) 13 Painter 
Paul 21 Miss West 23-slipper 25 Chief 
Norse gods 
26 Where20A was lost 27 De Mille or 
Moorehead 
28 Oneof famous three 
29 "-nice 
day" 30 Federation 31 See 28D 34 Bakery 
items 37 Movie units 40 Papal 
envoy 43 Old 44 Black eyes 47 Steam 
engine part 49 Greek letter 51 More 
rational 52 Small talk 53 Actor 
Cronyn 54 -Lisa 55 Munich's 
river 56 See28D 57 Jokes 60 Do garden 
work 
~EXrRAZ$.$$··-~··-­
1 
.. K.'D. StudesfL UMiOK ~ ~6eJt OK adve'lfibbcg ~~flee 
DOGBOOK 
I 
1•u-e.•a•11~ 
ll.rt~uire for applicationfrom·secreta 1•nSU 2rd floor LaForture 
~DLINE WEDNESDAY Oct. 13 5 
l--~ ------------------~---------~~----~-­
~ 
Tuesday, October 12, 1982 -page 12
~orts 


Johnston joins list of ND kicking heroes 
By LOUIE SOMOGYI consistency had its impact on many Sports Writer outcomes -not the least of them being the Cotton Bowl victory that The torch has been passed over produced another National Cham­the last decade; but the flame burns pionship in I977. His 39 field goals 
bright as ever. is a Notre Dame record, and his 247 The "flame" refers to legs ofNotre 
points is second only to Louis (Red) Salmon's scoring mark of 250.

Dame kickers who have made game­Joe Unis had a fantasy before the
winning clutch kicks almost a 1978 Cotton Bowl against Texas. He 
routine affair. 
dreamed that Reeve sustained a legThrough the years it has been the injury before the game and that itNotre Dame quarterback, the South­would be up to him as the backupern Cal tailback or the Penn State kicker to kick the winning points inlinebacker that have dominated na­the final second. Reeve didn't gettional headlines for unparalleled hurt, and Notre Dame didn't needcompetence in crucial situations. 

any last second heroics in its 38-10None, perhaps, have been more conquest. Unis was the backup

consistent with that competence again the following year as Notre
than the Notre Dame kicker. Dame returned to the Cotton Bowl.
Six kickers in the last I 0 years, either through tremendous faith in 
Chuck Male, the No. 1 kicker, was their religion, fantasies or their own 
injured, however. special talents, have created mo­
After trailing 34-12 to Houston, Mikejohnston gave the Irish a I 0-7 lead with is Ken Karcher. See Louie Somogyi's story on the Irish tied the score, 34-34, on a
ments for themselves and Notre 
this third quarterfield goal against Miami Satur­johnston and other Irish kicking heroes at right. touchdown with no time left on the
Dame fans that will last forever. 
day. These were three ofthe senior's 10 points in (Photo by Rachel Blount) clock. The extra point was still
In I973, Bob Thomas (now with 
the ballgame, won byNotre Dame I 6-14. Holding needed for victory. Unis kicked the
the NFL Detroit Lions) had one spe­point home twice (after a penalty
cial prayer before the season -he had nullified the first).
didn't want any recognition before "If you don't dream, things won't
the sixth game of the season against
Four starters gone 
come true," he said afterward. 

Southern Cal. After missing eight The "Male-man" in the person ofstraight field goals before the USC Chuck Male did his own deliveringgame, though, Thomas got a little in 1978 and 1979. After making theimpatient with the Deity.
Injuries cripple volleyball season 
team as a walk-on, he made 22-of-32He went to his room, opened tqe field goals in his career, including allcurtains, looked to heaven and said, four he tried against Michigan at Ann By MIKE SULLIVAN was the second casualty. She is still With another substitute having "I know I told you I didn't want any Arbor in I979 when Notre Dame

Sports Writer on crutches after landing on her dropped off the team, there are only big games before USC, but this is get­
defeated the Wolverines 12-IO.

ankle wrong and badly spraining it. seven healthy players on the entire ting ridiculous." 
The legend of"Harry 0" followed

That week against the Trojans,The Notre Dame women's vol­It should be about two weeks before squad. 
against the Wolverines in 1980. Har­Thomas hit on all three of his field leyball team is struggling right now, she will be able to return to action. "The injuries make the offense goals to provide the scoring dif­ry Oliver's longest field goal in a and the pre-season visions of an Sophomore co-captain Josie weaker," explains Coach Sandy ference in the 2 3-14 victory. Later game was only 36 yards before his NCAA tournament bid are fading Maternowski also suffered a Vanslager. "We don't have two hit­

,. that year, Thomas kicked a I9-yard majestic 51-yard field goal on the 
quickly. However, it is not any sprained ankle last week. Fortunate­ters ( Bauters and Henken) who hit field goal with 4:26 left against last play of the game beat Michigan,deficiency in talent, or poor play, ly, the injury was not as severe as her with power and accuracy. It also has Alabama in the Sugar Bowl to give 29-27. Like Thomas, the deeply­that is causing most ofthe problems, coaches had believed. She is on weakened the defense losing block­the Irish a 24-23 triumph and the Na­religious Oliver prayed.
but rather it is an incredibly bad crutches, however, and it should be ers who are taller and who get up tional Championship. "Mary, Mother of God, may the streak of injuries that is hurting the at least a couple ofweeks before she higher. 
Dave Reeve was the kicker for best thing happen," he said before team. can play again. "The younger girls lack the com­
Notre Dame from 1974-77. Al­the winning kick. He went on to kick In the last two weeks, four of the Meanwhile, the other co-captain, petitive experience at this level. 
though there were no last secondsix starters have suffered injuries. Mary Jo Hensler, has been plagued 
See VOLLEYBALL, page 10 heartstopping kicks from him, his See KICKERS, page 10 
Junior Terese Henken was the first by a bad wrist and an illness. Her a

starter to go out. She suffered wrist swells up after every match ============================================== 
chipped bone in her knuckle which and probably will need to be taped must be wrapped heavily during up for the rest ofthe year. games and practice. This has caused "We need them bad," says Ander­her some problems. son. "The other girls don't play with 

The Irish are good, but • • •
"She is playing inconsistently," confidence without them in there." says Assistant Coach Dan Anderson. The injury list does not stop with "She is not contacting the ball right the starters, though. Junior Maureen and, when she hits it, she doesn't Morin, a top substitute, suffered a Well, here we are in mid-October. It's prime football know what she's doing with it be­severe ankle injury before the season. But things are not the same as they were when 
.. cause her hand is all wrapped up." season started. She returned to ac­last the leaves began to turn, and roadside pumpkin Freshman standout Karen Bauters tion a week ago but is still limping. stands appeared. 
is winning. And, mirabile dictu, so is Notre Dame. Last year at this time, the Irish were 2-2. They had
Consistent golfers place 

fallen out of the polls which, only weeks before, they had stood atop. There was snickering from the press 1973. Coaches Faust and Hudson went to the cellars to and the countless millions who love to hate Notre pull out some dusty, but not forgotten misdirection 
Dame. There was a despondency about the students plays. These were the specialties ofan Armenian by the and alumni. Worse yet, there was a bad attitude among name ofParseghian, and they seemed to have improved By THERON ROBERTS only four shots per player each the players. with age. Sports Writer round. A total of ten teams com­Perhaps not since 1956, when Frank Leahy made But Michigan lost again the following week, and then peted. headlines by claiming that the Notre Dame team had played so badly against a mediocre-at-best Indiana team 
Despite the treacherous layout of After the first round, the Irish had "lost its fighting spirit," had morale been so low. that the Maize and Blue partisans were given over to the Moors Country Club course, the a team score of 399, and were in But all that has changed. The Irish have bounced back heartily booing Bo and the boys. Notre Dame golf team managed to second place, behind the Western from the doldrums, and fought their way back into the Clearly, the big opening win was not epic in its 
play consistently and finish in fourth Michigan squad, despite not having Top Ten. All is well again under the Golden Dome. proportions. The bottom line is: Michigan is not that place in the Mid-American Invita­the opportunity to pl:iy a practice Or so it appears. good this year. tional in The final round of the two round. Coach Faust is fond of saying that the Irish would In the next two games, Notre Dame squeaked by a day event was held yesterday. "At that point what we needed have been a much better team last year ifthey'd gotten a couple ofteams that still have not won a game between 
The Irish placed fourth in the was for someone to have a really hot few breaks. But turnabout is fair play. Notre Dame them. team standings, Western Michigan. round on Monday, and we could would be a lot worse this year if it hadn't gotten those The only misdirection visible in the Purdue game was the tournament host, won the just have stayed in second place," breaks. in the defensive backfield. Scott Campbell served one stroke out of third place. Wes­O'Sullivan said. Senior Greg Peters Each week, it seems, Faust says that "this is the tough­notice to the remaining nine teams on the Irish tern Michigan, the tournament host. had a second day score of76, pacing est team we have played yet." As opposed to last season, schedule that victory -if it were to come -would won the team title with a 780 total. the Irish. However, they slipped to he is decidedly cautious, not optimistic at all, when come through the air. Northern Illinois was second with fourth. asked about Notre Dame's performances, or the team's The Irish offense was sporadic, at best, against the 
fourth in Invitational 

792. Southern Illinois finished in Frankie Leyes had the lowest in­chances for success. And so it should be. Spartan~. It took Phil Carter 36 carries to gain 102 yards. third position with a 797. dividual total for Notre Dame, tally­Let us not get swept up in celebration. Faust is right to Two years ago, on just four extra carries, he picked up 
I 
"We played two consistent ing I8-hole totals of 75 and 80. The be guarded in his comments. Though the Irish are 4-0, I 52 extra yards. rounds on a very difficult golf seasoned junior's performance was they are not -yet -a great football team. So, we come to this week's game, in which the Irish course," Coach Noel O'Sullivan good enough for fifth place overall. Nothing is forgotten so quickly as a poorly-played could muster a touchdown only when Miami handed commented after the match,"there Junior teammate Dave Moorman's win. And there have been a couple of those. Before we them the ball I I yards from the endzone. are a few very frightening holes that two-day total of I 57 earned him forget the recent past in a blindness brought on by an­There is a great deal of overconfidence, and a false even caused difficulty for this­eighth place. Michigan's Tony other "miracle finish" and a bevy of bowl-committee sense ofenthusiasm among the Irish faithful. Tickets for 
I 
talented field." Roberts was the medalist for the members, let's take a look at the season so far. last weekend's games were scarce -and expensive. The Irish coach noted the fact that tournament, compiling a I49 total. In the opener, a game in which the players were Notre Dame students and alumni, hungry for victory only 45 strokes separated the first secondary to the portable TV studio erected by Roone
See GOLF page 10 See SKIP, page 10
and last place teams -a differential of Arledge, eta/., the Irish looked like a winner -vintage
t 
• 
r 
[__________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________. 




