----~---~----~---­
,Kennedy-page 8 

Gets the ax 

·Mx revenue cutfrom budget 
WASHINGTON (AP) The "I don't think we have to fund strategic arsenal in the face ofa huge House voted to delete from a 5231.6 Soviet arms buildup.
every expensive toy that the ad­billion defense spending bill all 
mirals, generals and contractors S988 million earmarked to buy the want," said Addabbo, who planned Some of the Pentagon's other 
later in the day to inrrdouce an major weapons programs, including
first tlve of a planned 100 of the 

amendment to delete the MX the B-I bomber, nuclear-powered
nuclear-tipped, intercontinental missiles. procurement funds. 
aircraft carriers and FA-18 fighter­attack planes also were targeted byThe vote marked a personal defeat But Rep. Jack Kemp, R-N.Y., and 
defense budget-cutters with amend­
for Reagan, who had led an intensive other administration supporters administration lobbying campaign maintained that the nation could not ments that would slash their money to keep the production money in­afford t<> delay modernizing its in the bill. tact. Arrayed against him in the battle for votes were advocates of a tr.s.­Sovict nuclear freeze and members 
Texas executes Brooks 
who contended that the MX was a good place to make budget economies and that its proposed 


by lethal injection 
basing system has not received con­prisoner to die against his will. He
gressional approval. HCNTSVILLE, Texas (AP)-The was the first prisoner to die in Texas
Shortly before the afternoon long death of the first U.S. inmate ex­in 18 years and the sixth executed in
debate began, House Speaker ecuted by lethal lllJectton was the nation during the paM six years.
Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., D-Mass., praised yesterday as "hope for vic­Texas has another execution hy
predicted the MX would be tims" by the mother of the man he lethal injection scheduled for Dec.
defeated. killed. But the prosecutor who 17. The method also has been
"I've talked to knowledgeable originally sought the sentence said adopted in Idaho, New Mexico and
people and I don't think he (Reagan) the state may have killed the wrong Oklahoma.
has I 70 votes," said O'Neill, who man. had aligned himself with the MX op­Charlie Brooks Jr., -tO, one of two Brooks was convicted of killing David Gregory, 26, a mechanic at a
ponents but did not seek to make it a men convicted of kidnapping and Fort Worth used-car lot. Brooks and
party pos1t10n for his fellow killing a young auto mechanic, died Woody Loudres, 38, kidnapped
Democrats. It would have taken 218 strapped to a medical table seven votes to defeat a motion to cut the minutes after a fatal dose of sodium Gregory while thev were test driving a car. He w~s taken to a
MX money. Pentothal was shot into his arm at motel, his hands and feet were
Amid predictions by some of his 12:16 a.m. bound, and he was shot once in the
allies that they had the votes to deny In his last words Brooks, a convert head.
the money, Rep. Joseph P. Addabbo, to Islam, commended his soul to Al­Loudres, 58, abo was convicted
D-N.Y., the chief MX opponent, lah and urged his girlfriend at his and sentenced to death but the ver­
criticized the weapons program as side to "be strong." dict was overturned. He then
an example of wasteful militan· Brooks was hooked to an in· pleaded guilty to murder in a plea
spending. · travenous tuhe that snaked behind a bargain and in October this year he
curtain in a death house room. An got a -!0-year sentence, making him 
unseen and unidentified prison eligible for parole in seven years.
employee started the tlow of lethal Neither Brooks nor Loudres ever
drugs into the tube. said who fired the fatal shot. 
Brooks closed his eyes and ap­Gregory's mother, Norma Mor­
peared still when the injection rison, said after the execution now

Botnbingindisco kills sixteen 
began. then started gasping and BALL'I'KELLY. :'liorthcrn Ireland The mcrea~mgly actl\'e guerrilla there is some hope in this society for
stationed in this mostly Protestant wheezing. :\linutcs later a pris<)n ( AP) -Gut:rrilla~ of the Irish Na­group had said in recent weeks that village of I,000 people about I 0 doctor pronounced him dead. 
victims." 
tional Liberation Army claimed British soldiers would he targets tiJr miles northeast of Londondern·. Brooks was th\= first black person "I didn't know that I would feel this relief." ~he said. " .. .I think all
responsibility yesterday li>r planting attacks, regardless of whether they Col. Richard Peel said it was the to die since the t:. ~-Supreme Court the homh that s..-nt an avalanche of were on duty. worst peacetime disaster to hit the allowed reinstitution of the death concrete onto J crowd of British sol­Police said the bomb went otf regiment in modern times. penaltv in 19~6, and the second See BROOKS, page 3 

dier~ and civilians at a disco-bar. kill­without warning at I I: I '; p.m..\ton­
ing I6 people and wounding 66. day ( 6: IS p.m. EST) while an es­
In London. an outraged Prime timated I;o people were jammed :\linistcr \targaret Tha!chcr called inside for the twice-weekly disco, the homhing "one of the most hor­highly popular with British troops ritic crimes in l'bter"s tragic his­from Shackleton Barracks, about tory... and said the British 200 yards down the road. government "won't rest until these Police spokesman Dave Hanna merciless killers arc brought to said the bomb contained 10 to 20 juMice." pounds ofexplosives. hut said it was 
Police and army spokesmen said not known how it was triggered. the dead included I I British sol· He said the device was planted dier~. four of them women. Some of against a wall of the pub's single­the victims of \londay night's attack story disco extension, and went otf lost arms and legs in the crushing near a bandstand. where a local dehris, and at least ·tO of the injured group, Willie O'Hara's Band, was were admitted to hospitals. playing. The wall was the main sup­
It was the worst terrorist attack in port for the concrete root; which Northern Ireland since August 1979, crashed down on the dancers, when 18 British soldiers were killed burying some li.Jr hours before res­in a double hombing at Warrenpoint cuers could reach them. near the border with the Irish "The roof just caved in -just Republic. chopping everybody," said Peter 
Northern Ireland Secretary James Cook, 29, brother of the har owner, Prior, who visited victims of the John Cook. "There was pan­lateM blast at a hospital and toured demonium. I tried to pull bodies out, the Droppin Well puh where the but it was just hopeless. (;iris were blast occurred, told reporters: "it running screaming their heads oft~" wa~ a massacre without mercy." His father, .John Cook Sr., who was 
The Irish :'\jational Liberation on security duty outside the bar at Arn1\', a .\tarxist oftshoot of the the time, said: "I picked up one outlawed Irish Republican Army, body. It had no legs on. The place claimed responsibility I(Jr the hlast was reduced to rubble, nothing in a all to a Belfast television station. more. People were screaming. It was The caller, who used an ack­an awful sight, just awful." nowledged code word, issued no The soldiers wcr..: ;~·om the 1st other statement. Battalion of the Cheshire Regiment. 
Happy hours 

Van Wolvlear,HPCdiscuss alcohol 
By MARK WORSCHEH 
a happy hour and a party in the same Assistant News Editor evening. Lisa Salvador of Brecn-Phillips 
If rectors approve of happy hours made the suggestion to the council in hall party rooms, Father john Van in response to Van Wolvlear's con­Wolvlear indicated last night that he cern that happy hours merely "fuel would go along with their decision. people for the night" by allowing 
He also announced that Joe people to drink from the afternoon O'Brien, Assistant Director and Busi­well into the evening. ness :\tanager of Athletics, will pay Van Wolvlear said he based his for the 5824.7; bill for damages to decision in part on his desire to Transpo buses by students after the lower the use ofalcohol on campus. Pittsburgh game. "When we're trying to cut down 
Van Wolvlear made the com­on alcohol, we don't want to extend ments at the weekly meeting of the the use of party rooms. The more Hall Presidents' Council. The coun­that you allow such gatherings, the
Fatberjobn l'an Wol1•lear 
cil had asked Van Wolvlear to come more alcohol will be used," he said. to the meeting to explain his letter cil that the matter would be Several hall presidents to .-ectors that effectively prohibited discussed at the Rectors' Committee downplayed the role that alcohol 
such happy hours. meeting next week. plays at happy hours, emphasizing 
"I got a lot ofinsight tonight," said In response to Van Wolvlear's the positive aspects of the gather­Van Wolvlear after the meeting. "If comments, the council delayed ings. they (rectors) indicate we should go voting on a resolution calling for '-In "We understand your motives," by that, then I might go along with extension of usage times for hall so­said Ned Legare of Morrissey Hall, it." During the meeting, he had said, cial spaces. In addition, as a result of "but by making this policy you are "If the rectors think it is a good the discussion, the council agreed to going in the wrong direction. Happy thing, I'll go along. I'm not bul­include a provision in the resolution hours are the most constructive use lheaded." which would prevent the same 
·Van Wolvlear promised the coun-group from using the party room for See HPC, page 4 

News Brie/§ 
Hy The Obserz•er and The AssociatedPress 
The COlleCtiOn of Dr. Thomas A. Dooley memorabilia, which has been on display in the LaFortune Student Center, was moved to the University Archives last Thursday. The collection, which included awards, gifts from his parishoners, and other items he acquired in Southeast Asia, was transferred to the Archives in anticipation of the revamping of the first floor (of LaFortune) "to give students more room," said Father John Van Wolvlear, Vice­President for Student Affairs. Van Wolvlear said the collection needed to be "reclassified," as most ofit is unlabeled. The collection is being stored in the Archives to protect it from further deteriora­tion. It is possible that in the future it may be displayed again. Van Wolvlear said the collection "would be more artistic in a display in the (library) lobby." Van Wolvlear said that the decision to move the collection was not related to the fact that "items were stolen from the collection a couple ofyears ago." He planned the transfer before he was aware of this, although he added that if he had known, he would have had it moved sooner to protect it from additional losses. Dooley, a Notre Dame graduate, is famous for his medical work in Laos and elsewhere in Southeast Asia in the 1950's. -The Observer 
The Colden String Quartet will give a concert at 8:1 5 p.m. tomorrow in the Annenburg Auditorium of the Snite Museum ofArt. The Colden String Quartet is now in its third year of artistic residency at Western Michigan University in Kalamazoo, Mich. The Quartet also plays wth the Kalamazoo Symphony Or­chestra. They were recently asked to broadcast on National Public Radio's Quartesscence Series. The concert is sponsored by the N.D. Department of Music. The coucert concludes this year's University Artists Series. Admission is free to students, S2 for the public. -The Observer 
The Notre Datne Chorale, under the direction of Carl Starn, will present their Fall Semester concert this Friday at 
8:1 5 p.m. in Washington Hall. The Chorale, a select group of mixed voices, has prepared a program including selections from Stravinsy's Mass, Bach's Lobet den Herrn, aile Heiden and Faure's Cantique de 
jean Racine. Complementing these serious pieces will be a number of spirituals, madrigals, and Christmas Carols. Admission is free of charge and early seating is advised. -The Observer 
A record number ofstudents used Van Lines the weekend of December 3-4. James McDonnell, Director of Stu­dent Activities, indicated that 308 riders took advantage of the service. Most riders went to University Park to do some Christmas shopping. Van Lines will be in operation again this weekend with runs on Friday from 6 p.m. to midnight and on Saturday from 4 p.m. to midnight. The service also goes to Town & Country Shopping Center. -The Observer 
An Indiana judge yesterday ordered the killing of 13 dogs which attacked and fatally mauled a 10-year-old girl in Novem­ber as she was riding her bicycle. After a short hearing, Orange Cir­cuitJudge Max W. Apple ordered SheriffClarence Switzer to employ a veterinarian to destroy the animals in a humane manner. The dogs belong to Clifford Bird, who was indicted on Nov. 29 for criminal recklessness for allowing the mostly stray animals to roam free. Bird, 72, was arraigned Monday and pleaded innocent. The animals killed Marilyn Darlene Thacker on Nov. 10 as she was riding her bicycle past the Bird home on her way to her grandparents' house. Orange County Prosecutor Arthur Dillard said yesterday he hopes to hold Bird's trial sometime this month. The dogs Apple ordered destroyed have been kept in the city animal shelter since the incident. -The Observer 
The Indiana Court ofAppealswas asked yes­terdav to dismiss the appeal in the case of Infant Doe, a deformed baby ·who died after his parents followed medical advice and with­held treatment. After an hour-long hearing, Judge Wesley W. Ratliff said that a decision would be reached "at the earliest possible oppor­tunity." The little boy, who was never identfied, suffered from Down's Syndrome and had severe physical problems, including a blockage in his esophagus that prevented him from eating and drink­ing normally. The baby died April 15 in a Bloomington hospital after a Monroe County judge ruled that the child's parents had the right to follow their doctors' advice and withhold further treatment. Al­though the child is dead, Monroe County Deputy Prosecutor Lawrence M. Brodeur is appealing the matter in an effort to get a ruling to guide courts in future Infant Doe cases. Andrew C. Mallor of Bloomington, the lawyer for the child's parents, asked the court to dismiss the appeal on the grounds that the baby's death nearly ren­dered the case moot. "Nothing this court can do, in terms offashion­ing relief can provide relief in this case,'he said. "Infant Doe is deceased." The facts of the Infant Doe case aren't likely to be repeated in any other case facing an Indiana court, he said. For that reason, the controversy wouldn't qualify as an exception to the mootness rule, he said. -AP 
Mostly cloudy todayand cold with high in the mid 30s. A 40 percent chance oflight snow tonight. Colder with lows in the upper teens to low 20s. Clearing tomorrow but continued cold with highs in the mid to upper 20s. -AP 
Wednesday, December 8, 1982-page 2 
The stranger's name 
The rain insisted on pounding the canvas canopy where some 1 5 people gathered around the grave to bury him, but the smacking noise of rain hitting the wind-whipped canvas roof drowned out the meager words of the priest. 
The paper said the funeral was scheduled for early in the afternoon, although the darkness of the storm had made the fluorescent street lights turn on already. 
His mother was there, clutching a rosary in one hand and car kevs in the other. She had been a good Catholic all her lif~ -except for the divorce -and was sad­dened and perhaps bitter that her son had died out of the Church and without viaticum. 
His father arrived late and interrupted the priest as he slammed the car door shut and came rushing through the muddy lawn to the canopy. He was a traveling sales­man for a company GO miles away and tried whispering that excuse to his ex-wife as the priest continued. She paid no attention to him except to twitch her nose as in a sniff to indicate that the downpour and his polyester suit had not mixed too well. 
Their daughter was there too, wearing faded blue jeans and gl<) J:S!ike's. She had her own apartment now 

Bob Vonderheide News Editor 
Inside 'Nednesday 
He stopped doing his homework and often skipped a full day ofschool. He'd turn the television up extra loud to cover the noise made by the arguing. Eventually, he started coming home late at night -ifat all -to avoid his parents. His sister had since moved away with some boy, and he found himself more and more the stranger to a home that didn't notice or care about him. Gone were the days of bed-time stories. It all seemed so ab· surd and so pitifully sad, he thought, and it would make him angry and then the thought would make him cry. 
Until one day he left. He packed some clothes and some food, swiped some money from his father's wallet and the keys to the car. And he stole his mother's only Bible so she would realize he was gone. 
His mother never saw him again, and his father once 
--and h~dn't seen her mother -~-;....----------------. saw him across a city street 
or father in two years. A grandmother, an aunt or two, the funeral director, and some guys who knew him back in high school comprised the rest of the funeral party. 
He was after all only 25­

popularity that comes with being a football running back and class vice president. 
He was the sort of kid that wanted to be a fireman when he was young, and now wanted to be a good lawyer, or a senator, or maybe secretary of state. He would read again and again the accounts ofJohn Quincy Adams in his history book and admired the courage and independency he perceived. Success was his for the ask­ing and he liked the success he had already tasted. 
But he was forced to mature a lot faster than his class­mates, and these hopes and dreams of a childhood past faded into a innocent memory of naive ambition. His mother and father began fighting when he was a senior -ab t out little insignificant things such as how much syrup should go on a waffle, or whether or not the grass needs cutting. 
The fighting got worse and more intense, and he'd come home from ball practice expectingdinner only to see his mother counting points offher left hand with the index finger of her right as she yelled at his father. He'd yeH back and make her cry, and she'd storm off to her bedroom and read her tattered Bible. 
The Observer 
Desigr~ Editor........................... Kay Holland Desigr~ Assistar~t ............... Brigene Goulet Typesetters .......................................... Reggie Tari 
Toni 
News Editor .................................. Vic Sciulli Copy Editor ............................ Greg Swiercz Features Layout........................ Tari Brown Editorials Layout ............... Ken Cera bona Sport Is Copy Editor........... Mike Riccardi Typist ....................................... Mary Torchia Ad /Jesigr~ ....................................... Paul Slota Photographer ............................... ]ill Origer ND Day Editor.................. Kathleen Hogan SJI.IC Day Editor........................ Tim Peners Guest Appearar~ces ....... A Missing Person 
The Observer 1USPS 598 9201 ~~ published Monday through Fflday and on home football Saturdays except dunng exarn ~nd Vd( atron peflods The Observer rs published by the students of Notre Dame and Sarnt Marys Col lege Subscflptrons may be purchased for $25 per year 1 S 15 per seme5ter) by wfltrng The Observer P 0 Box Q Notre Dame lndrana 46556 
The Observer rs a 'l1emoer of The Associated Press All repruductron rrghts are reserved 
Second class postage parj at Notre Dame InOr ana 46556 
but didn't raise hi~ voice to say hello. He was killed seven years later. It was a single-car accident late at night. Just two miles away from where his mother now lived. 
He was coming home. 
years-old, and just seven years earlier was at the top of his high school school class. His family was a meek blend of all-American dull­ness, and his mother used to read him Bible stories before tucking him in bed. 
He loved high school ­until his senior year ­enjoying the fame and 



Just then, as the priest was finishing the funeral, the clouds broke a little and the heavy smacking noise ofthe rain on the canvas canopy stopped as the downpour turned to a drizzle. His mot­her asked the priest to hurry so the people could get in their cars before the rain 
started again. 

The priest hurried and the people left. His father left quickly, and his sister paused only to spit out the gum she was chewing. His mother stepped lightly over the muddy lawn to the cemetery road where her car was parked. She got in, checked her stringy black and gray hair in the rearview mirror, and drove off accelerating as she left. 
She didn't notice the sun had appeared. 
As they left, the funreral director told the digging crew to "finish the thing ollf' and so they did. They lowered the casket down into the muddy hole, covered "the thing" with a mound of black dirt, and laid a small flat tombstone across the grave so the lawn mowers could drive without steering around it. 
All that was left to the world was a name on a grave. Some name in a cemetery log book. A name that never became secretary ofstate, nor a senator nor a lawyer. It could have been any name, any name his mother pleased. But nonetheless they put it on the tombstone: Sean Harris. 1984. 
Solemnity of the Immaculate U>nception 
Holy DayofObligation an I Masses at Sacred :;;'~ 
I 
l.__:::~~~2.e:­

The Observer 
U.S.rights cotntnission slatns Reagan policies 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The U.S. Commission on Civil Rights denounced the Reagan administra­tion's education policies yesterday, charging that its opposition to forced busing could mean the return of separate and unequal public schools for minorities. 
In a 54-page statement on school desegregation, the independent commission accused the Justice Department of opposing "the most effective remedy for desegregating the public schools -the mandatory reassignment of students -and the most effective tool for· implement­ing this remedy student transportation ..." 
It charged that the Justice Depart· ment, by supporting "voluntary met­hods of desegregation which over time have proved ineffective, would have the nation return to pre-1954 standards ...(and) revert to the separate-and-unequal blot that has stained our nation's credo of equal justice under law." 
"The Justice Department is obstructing our national policy to achieve school desegregation," commissioner Murray Saltzman, a Baltimore rabbi, told a news con­ference. 
In a separate report, the six­member panel criticized President Reagan's largely unsuccessful effort to cut more than S4 billion from aid 
to schools and college ~tudents in 
fiscal 1983. It said the cuts would 
"undermine the fragile gains made 
by the least privileged in our 
society." 
Commenting on the report, Deputy White House Press Secretary Larry Speakes said: "The stated policy ofthis administration is to achieve integration, but we do not think busing is the way to achieve it." 
Speakes also said the administra­tion had tailored its cuts in aid to col­lege students so that students from families with incomes of less than S12,000 actually would get larger grants. He said the Reagan policies would meet the goal of assuring access to college for minorities. 
Clarence M. Pendleton Jr., whom Reagan appointed chairman of the panel last April after firing his predecessor, Arthur Flemming, dis­sented from the call for mandatory busing, But he renewed his call for Reagan to announce a clear-cut policy on civil rights. 
Pendleton called school desegregation "an important nation­al goal." He said voluntary desegregation efforts need another four or five years to work. 
John Wilson, a spokesman for the Justice Department, said officials were studying the report and would have no immediate comment. 
. . . Brooks 

scheduled to end Ibis Friday. (Photo by jill Origer) 
Purduescientist 

New way to produce alcohol found 
continuedfrom page 1 
our pain stems trom Charlie Brooks. He hurt his family and he hurt my family. We are all the victims of Charlie Brooks." 
However, Jack Strickland, the for­mer prosecutor who convinced jurors to give Brooks the death penalty, said on ABC's "Good Morn­ing America" show that he now believes the state never will know if it executed the man who fired the shot. 
"It may well be, as horrible as it is to contemplate, that the state of Texas executed the wrong man at 
12:09 a.m. last night," said Strick­land, who failed to persuade the Texas Board of Pardons and Paroles to grant a 60-day reprieve. 
Brooks' unsuccessful appeals went all the way to the U.S. Supreme Court, which refused a stay. Gov. Bill Clements gave prison officials per­mission to proceed. 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. (AP)-A new method of producing alcohol from sugar that is up to 50 times fas­ter than conventional fermentation 
methods  has  been  devloped  by  
Purdue  University  scientists,  the  
school claimed yesterday.  

The process may eventually be used to cut the cost ofproducing al­cohol for fuel on an industrial scale, says George Tsao, director of Purdue's Laboratory of Renewable Resources Engineering. 
Tsao, who was in charge of the research, believes the new process could be 111 commercial use in a few years if funds become available to develop the new technology. 
Fermentation depends on the ac­tion of yeasts, one-celled organisms 
that break down complex car­bohydrates into simple compounds -a process used to alcoholic­beverage producers who allow yeasts to change sugar into alcohol and carbon dioxide. 
Fermentation porccsses, such as those usud by the wine maker who pours grape juice into vats and adds yeast cclb. is a costly project. 
Tsao notes that \\ hbkey maker!> usc sugar from gr.,in tn feed their alcohol-pm:..luc::.~ vat~ while cheesen1akers LISc: nun, :1s a S()urce of sugar. In ali processes, yea"t u:lb float fred~ in the ,-ars, he e"plains. 
Fermentation is e:-.:pcnsive largdy because the engineering aspects have changed little since human beings first put yeasts to work, Tsao says. 
In their experiments, Tsao and his associates replace free-floating yeast cetis wit!: compact masses or ceus and exchange big fermentation vats for slender, tube-like reactors. 

"Tightly packed yeast ferments sugar more efficiently than free­floating yeast simply because more cells are at work in a comparable volume," Tsao explains. 
He reports that the reaction has produced up to 100 grams of al­cohol per liter of sugar an hour. A comparable process with yeast cells floating in a vat would produce about two grams of alcohol per hour, he says. 
The experiments have been per­formed in a reactor ofone·tenth liter capacity but Tsao says a much larger reactor would have to be built and 
operated for the technology to ad­
vance. 
The process will also would per­mit alcohol producers to use compact reactors instead of the huge fermentation vats now general­ly used in industry, Tsao said but added that he doubts producers will rush to adopt it. 
"Manufacturers who own plants will not want to spend the money to buy new equipment," predicted Tsao, adding that he believes adop­tion of the new technology will be gradual. 
Taao read a paper on the process at the annual meeting of the American Chemical Society last Sep­tember. 
Support the March of Dimes --iiBIRTH DEFECTS FOUNDATION-illlllil Thrs space contnbuted by the publisher  
The Thomas More Society of Notre Dame presents Lecture: The Blessed Virgin: Her Prince in the Church by Fr. Mullahy, CSC. Tonight 7:30-S:OOpm Plus: Film of Our Lady of Guadalupe 8:15-9:1Spm Rm. 115 O'Shag Hall  
€ & JCjallo WtneRy CaReeR PResentation When: Dec. 8, 1982 7-9:00 p.m. Upper Lounge of the UniversityWh€R€: Club Who: Open to all majors who have an interest in sales/sales mgmt. An informative evenirgWhat: concerning a career with the Gallo Winery th€ € & J (jallo WJO€Ry Will B€ JOt€RVI€WJOq on campus Jan. 25 & 26, 1983. .­ 

$2000 collected for SM United Way Campaign 
By MARY ANN McMORROW 
Boy Scouts and (;irl Scouts. the:
.Veu•s Siaff 
Y.\ICA. anu a nu1nnt-r or womt·n ~ shelter~.
Thb year'~ Saint .\lary·~ l nited Way Campaign ha~ raised S2000, Although there is a possihilitv that and organizers arc: optimbtic that the drive will c:ontinue into next bake sales during finals and other semester, current plans are ti>r the: upcoming event~ will rabe this campaign to end in an campus fund­figure even higher. raising winter earnivai on Jan. 1-t. 
About S500 wa~ collected last 
year when the campaign was con­
ducted hy going door to door and 
requesting a tlxed donation from 
every person. 
"It seems people: didn't want to 
just gi,·e a dollar if the\· didn't know 
or care what they were: giving it ti>r. 
This way we're trving to educate 
them tlrst, and thn· can alwavs gi\T 
the dollar if thev'rc: willing to do 
it,"~aid Social,lu~ticc: Commi~sionc:r Christint· Trotter. who i~ in charge: ofthi~ H:ar's drive. 
Students arc: not the: onlv ones 

taking part in the activities. ~ome & t facult\ members ha\T pledged a 
1984 elections"

small percentage of their monthly t salaries to the drive:. 
t 

Once the campaign is completed. the College: will turn in the amount t
Wednesday, December 8 

raised to the South Hend ofilce ofthe 
t

l'nited \X'ay. The College decides which groups ami organizations will 
t 

recci\·c: some of the money col­
8:00p.m. Library Auditorium t 

lected. Some of the agcncie~ which have received mone\· from the 
t 

llllt:U \\ ay 111 tile past 1nc:iuuc: lilt: 
t 
t t t 
t 
t t t t 
The Observer 


Soldiers search the wrc~·kage ofa pub in Bal­lykel~v Monday after a bomb explosion which killed at least I~ people. Seuen soldiers were belieued to be among the people killed in the disco-dance pub frequented by British soldiers. See related story on page one. (AP Photo) 
Jehovah's Witnesses 
Tll.ree rescued after capsizing yacht 
SUVA, fiJI (AP) -Three recovery. Jehovah's Witnesses from California A thin man, Aros said he was are recovering after losing their probably closer to death than his yacht on a South Pacific reef, sailing wife and son because he had less 25 days in two !Hoot boats lashed body fat. She said she was helped by stern to stern and spending three having kept fit as a professional rol­days on a desolate sand cay before Ier derby contestant before their being rescued. marriage seven years ago. 
Waves up to 40 feet capsized Aros, a plant nurseryman, and his them repeatedly, and for a week family sailed from Long Beach a year their only food was a bird that ago on a trip around the world in 
~oc~dooo~~ilie~mand ili~~fum~~p~man~
flying fish that landed in the boats at He said they were en route from night. Raratonga, in the Cook Islands, to 
"I felt that we were going to die," New Zealand when they grounded said Robert Aros, 50, of Long Beach, on a reefon the night ofNov. 5. The "but we are a very religious family. Vamanos was holed, the radio We prayed a lot. We sang religious drowned out, and each wave shifted songs, and we kept our spiritual faith the yacht closer to the edge of the up." reef and sinking. 
Aros, his second wife, Margaret, Aros and Christian lashed an 8­30, and his 17-year-old son, Chris-foot rubber dinghy and an 8-foot tian, were rescued last weekend by Fiberglas boat together as a Fijians who took them to Cikobia-l-catamaran, equipped the craft with Lau, an island ISO miles northeast of the mast and sail from the youth's Suva. Windsurfer and set sail with two 
When the Fijians found them, tableknives, two pocketknives, Aros was too weak to stand, but they about 15 cans of survival rations, were preparing to set sail again in about 20 quarts of fresh water, as­search offresh water and people. sorted clothing, flares and a signai­
"The Fijians told us we would ing kit, a sextant, a first aid kit, two never made it," Aros said from his oars and a pump for the inflatable hospital bed. "The prevailing cur-dinghy. rents would have washed us away "I knew roughly where we were from land again. We would have and my plan was to sail to Southern died, there's no doubt about that." Tonga, which I thought I would 
Agovernment helicopter brought reach in seven to 10 days," Aros said. them Tuesday to Colonial Memorial Hospital in the Fijian capital. Doc­But the catamaran arrangement tors said they were suffering from didn't work, and the family lashed malnutrition, exposure and exhaus­the two hulls stern to stern, occupy­tion but would make a good ing the rubber dinghy and using the 
t-----PittSburghClub-----t 
ft '  Sign-ups fr;r Christmas Break Bus Sunday, Dec.l2 at 7pm LaFortune Little Theatre Buses will leave N D (CCE) and SMC (Holy Cross)  tt t  
' f  Tues., Dec. 21 at Spm Wed., Dec. 22 at Spm  f  
'  Buses will return to ND/SMC from Pittsburgh Greyhound Terminal  a  
' t  Mon., Jan. 10 at 1pm Round Trip $45  One Way  $29  ' t  
a  First Come  First Served  a  
'  Payment must be made in full at time of reservation  '  
a  NO REFUNDS  Questions call Brian-1743  a  

·~~..._..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~· 
hard boat like a rudder. 
"It was frightening," said Aros. "Seas were 20 feet and sometimes going up to 30 feet or 40 feet, and all the time we were being capsized so that we lost equipment. I lost count of how many times that happened. But we felt that we knew where we 
were going, and I felt we would find an island." 

Wednesday, December 8, 1982-page 4 
Congress m.a.y act on r1s1ng gas pr1ces 
WASHINGTON (AP)-With mil­lions of natural ga~ customer~ facing price hikes of between 20 and SO percent this winter, there is growing sentiment in Congress for legblation to provide some relief. 
Four senators and 2S House mem­bers introduced legislation Monday they said would provide lower bills by allowing pipeline companies to get out of expensive contracts with their suppliers. 
"The cost of natural gas has created a national emergency. It has given many homeowners the choice between heating and eating," said Sen. Arlen Specter, 1{-Pa., one of the Senate sponsors of the bill. 
Rep. Bob Edgar, D-Pa., said price increases would vary, ranging froin 20 percent in Iowa to 40 percent in Southern California and SO percent in Peoria, Ill. 
The measure, introduced by members of the Northeast-Midwest Coalition, requires pipelines to pur­chase the cheapest gas available. It would allow the pipelines to break current take-or-pay contracts which obligate them to pay for gas whether they need it or not. 
Many pipelines, eager to secure long-term supplies following the 1976-77 shortages, entered into such agreements with their big sup­pliers, usually at high prices. 
Now that there is glut ofgas, many pipelines have shut in low-cost supplies because they are forced to buy the more expensive gas. Critics contend that pipelines have little in­centive to buy cheaper gas since regulatory commissions allow them to pass their purchase costs on to consumers. 
The bill would require the 
pipelines to show proof that they 
were buying the cheapest gas 
available to them. 
The legislation would expire on 
Nov. I, 191-l.~. This will give 
Congress time to draft a more com­
prehensive plan addressing a variety 
of natural gas pricing problems, sup­
porters said. 
Sponsors admitted it would be al­most impossible for the measure to clear Congress in the two weeks left for the lame duck session, but they said hearings scheduled for next week would build momentum to assure passage in January. 
Several mear;ures have been in­troduced by members of Congress trying to fight t natural gas increases, whtch have been averaging .20 per­cent annually. Much of the higher price is attributable to the 1971-l law which is gradually decontrolling new gas supplies. 
Two members of the U.S. Con­fen:nce of Mayors called on the ad­ministration to reconsider its plans for accelerated decontrol. 
Mayors Richard Berkley of Kansas City and Joseph Walsh of Warwick, R.I., said their constituents could no longer afford steep price hikes. They said Congress should work for price rollbacks. 
But Nicholas). Bush, president of the Natural Gas Supply Association, said Congress "would do the country immeasurable harm" if it passed any legislation during the lame duck session. His group, which represents producers, supports fas­ter decontrol ofprices. 

============================================~ 
continuedfrom page I 
ofalcohoi on campus." 
Tim Connolly of Howard reported that at first his rector was against the idea of hall happy hours, but "now he loves it. At our happy hours, it's talking -really good for socialization." He gave as an ex­ample his hall's freshman happy hours, which he said allowed fresh­man to meet new paople. 
Van Wolvlear questioned Connol­ly as to how the happy hours are funded and whether the proper amounts are spent for food and non­alcoholic beverages. 
Connolly said yes, and added, "Quite a few don't even drink at the happy hour. frankly, I'd rather go to a happy hour. They're a lot nicer and more htn. I really feel nervous about losing these things." 
Van Wolvlear appeared interested 
throughout the discussion, and ad­
mitted that "many of the rectors have said they are the best parties." He said that he had never been to a happy hour, but added, ''I'm not averse to going to one." 

Van Wolvlear said he first learned ofthe extent ofhappy hours in party rooms from a report from the Security Department which said that a hall had been caught selling drinks over the counter at a happy hour, a clear viol~tion oflaw. 
"I didn't know what was going on," he said. "1 didn't know they were using the rule for that." 
The rule in question is one which gave rectors the right to make ex­ceptions in the guideline which limited party room use to Friday and Saturday nights after 9 p.m. Van Wolvlear said the rule originally was intended to let parties occur on days before mid-week holidays, not to al­low happy hours. 
Van Wolvlear said that for some rectors, alcohol in tne party room is 
Social Concerns Seminar 
in Washington, D.C. Spring Break Applications available from DecemberS· January 21 Deadline: January 25 Center for Social Concerns Ill0 Memorial library 239-5319 (Marcia LeMay) 
...HPC 
ct:auy a problem, and this fact also affected his decision. But John Greer, Stanford Hall president, predicted that disallowing party room happy hours and fo;cing them imo private rooms would cause even more headaches for rectors and hall staffs. 
Van Wolvlear said he would like his otlke to work more closely with the HPC, a body he called "more ef­fective because of its representa­tion." 
He responded to questions from the HP.C on the recent controversy over the damage to Transpo buses. 
Van Wolvlear said be passed the bill on to Student Body President Lloyd Burke bc.:ause "first, they have a good supply of funds fromm student fees. To say that students are not responsible for their actions is almost immoral." 
The buses issue, the subject of a Student Senate "Save the Buses" campaign, was silentcd by Van Wolvlear's announcement. 
"Mr. O'Brien is going to pay for it, he told me,"' he ~aid. 
Regarding social activities on campus, Van Wolvlear said he would try ag.tin to pcr~uade the board of the t'niversity Club 10 let groups of -'0 or -10 students dine there on their slow nights. such as Monday through Wednesday. 
lie also said the ideal situation would be to have a stJJdent center with a travel agency, a beauty shop and a book store on campus. A build­ing with all these things in it would guarantee its usc, he said, hut added "How many eons away that is, I don't know. We have to work gradually." 
Van Wolvlear recommended that the HPC work with his office to help the local St. Vincent DePaul Society, suggesting donations of items be collected at the end ofthe yc.:r from 
~tudenh. 
ln other HPC action, a recom­mendation by Lisa Salvador that the new name of Psychological Services be the Campus Counsding Center was passed unanimou~ly. 

: Celebrate Christmas at the Nazz : 
: Saturday, Dec.ll q:JO-? : 
• Featuring: •
•: * matt Feeney * Betsy Quinn •: : * Bob O'Donnell *John Foryt :•• * Greg Sobkowski •• 
• lHot chocolate and Cookies will be provided:
................................. 
,..,.~.~~·~"~.......~~·--·....----·-·-··..,......,...,...,...-...,.._.._1 ~ Teachers Needed!!!! ~ 
~Get Involved in ND-SMC ~ 
~ Student Union's ~ 
l Free University I 
i~'an opportunity to share your interests''~l Sign up in the S.U.office l 
~ (2nd F-loor Lafortune)·­
....~__....~ ..........,.........~......,..............~...,.........,.......,.....,....,....,..........,.. ..,.,.J 
The Observer mber 8, 1982 -pag' 
Summerfund campaign 
WSND looking for donations 

ByRENEFOY 
News Staff 
WS;'~;D-F:\1's Summer fund cam­paign has begun again. 
The station is asking for contribu­tion~ from its audience in order to pay for the coM of keeping the sta­tion on the air over the three-week holiday. In return for donations. WS:\ID will give away classical al­bums that will depend on the amount of the gift. 
The t:niversity of ~otre Dame gives WS;'I;D A.\-I-F\1 a relatively large budget for the school year. This hudget, however. can not he commercial station, must get dona­tions from the community and must appeal to major corporations to un­derwrite the costs of many of the special series that feature famous symphonies and opera companies. 
used during breaks  or  during the  
~ummer .  
.-\~  a re,ult \X'<.:'\:1)  which i~  not a  

When WS;\;D-F:\1 decided to serve the community of South !:lend as an educational station. thev received a licence from the FCC in order to broadcast to the area. The license re­quires the station to follow certain rules of operation which include broadcasting for 12 hour' a day and for .~6S days a year. 
WSND-A\1 is not licenced with the FCC. which gives the station more freedom of operation. times, and content. In addition. the A1\1 sta­tion is smaller and less expensive to run. Because it transmits only on campus, the station goes oil the air during breaks. 
The Summer Fund is used strictlv 
for the times when WS:'IiD-F:\1 is no't 
able to use the budget provided lw 
the l'niversity.lt is not used for thei-r 
A:\1 affiliate. 
WSND-F:\-1 has a volunteer staff of nearly 200 persons. but only eight persons hold paid positions. The staff that works over break. however. are paid. The station es­timates that it will cost the station SS.OOO to operate over Christmas break. 
They are contldent that they will reach their target through the Sum­mer Fund if listeners are as generous as they have been in the past. 

For Pakistan 
Zai seeks better U.S. relations 
WASIIINGTO;'I; (AP)-President \lohammed Zia ul-tlaq of Pakistan said today that his country and the l nited States have a friendship 
"strong enough to withstand dif­ferences of opinion" and told Presi­dt·nt Reagan: "you and I have a rendezvous with destiny." 
Standing at Reagan's side at welcoming ceremonies on the White !louse South Lawn. the Pakis­tani president referred repeatt·dly to the 100.000 Soviet troops occupy­ing Afghanistan across Pakistan's northwest horder. lk said his U.S. 
visit  has  "great  importance  for  
renewal  of  a  friendship  that  has  
endured many ups and downs."  

Zia. a former Pakistani ~rm,· chi,.P' 
stan who "etzett power tnree years ago. called for "negotiation and ac­<·ommodation" in the framework of l'.:\. principal to solve the problems he said Afghanistan poses. 
In remarks before the two began discussions in the White House Oval Oftke, Reagan praised Zia's "courageous stand" on behalf of peace and stabilitv in Southwest Asia. 
Reagan said good will between the two leaders would cement "the permanence ofour hond," which he said "grows stronger daily." 
Referring to the 5~.2 billion military and economic aid package his administration had promised Pakistan over the next tlve years. 
Federal board urges more child safety laws 
tragically mistaken that their child is
\X'ASIII:'\C;TO:\ ( AP) -A federal safe when held in their arms or
,afety board, saying 90 percem ofin­sln·ping in the back seat. She said in 
fant deaths in car accidents could he even a slow-spt·ed accident. an in­
prevented, yeMerdav urged all states fant held in a person's arms can lly
to enact law~ requiring that young into the windshield or he crushed
children traveling in motor vehicles between the passenger and the dash­
he conllned to safety seats. 
board.
The ~ational Transportation 
Safety Board said that 25 states have enacted various child passenger 
Reagan said the t:nited States believes the aid "wtll contribute to the tranquilitv and progress of the entire region." 
Reagan said the l !nited States is happy to help Pakistan deal with the nearly_-', million Afghan refugees it is now sheltering and with the causes of their decision to tlee their country. The costs of caring f(Jr the refugct·s has risen to about S I mil­lion a day, tiJr a total so far of about sI billion. 
Called 'critical ' 

Seizures tvorsen Clarks condition 
SALT LAKE CITY ( AP) -Artitkial wllat ettect the seizures might have heart recipient Dr. Barney Clark was on Clark's recovery, Dwan said. placed on the critical list today arter l:ld(>re the seizures. Clark had he suffered seizures, a hospital spelll a generally restful night. Dwan spokesman said. said. On \londay, the 6 !-year-old 
Lniversitv of Utah :\ledical Center retired dentist had heen sitting at spokesman _fohn Dwan said Clark's the side of his bed, doing mild ex­condition was downgraded from ercise, listening to music and oc­serious to critical after the seizures casionally joking with nurses, occurred at about 'i:-t'i a.m. yester­hospital oftkials said. dav. l>wan said the seizures were Clark. who last Thursday became controlled with sedatives and their the tlrst person to receive a per­cause was hdng investigated. manent artitkial heart, is in his sixth 
Doctors also were investigating day in the hospital's surgical in­
sakty laws and 19 others have laws requiring child sakt~ scats. Patricia (;oldman. the hoard's vice 
WOMAN'S 

chairman said, however, that only ahout a third of the motorists with infants use the safety seats and the 
SPIRITUALITY 

percentage drops to only 1-t percent when children aged one through four are involved. 
Goldman said many parents are 
JAN. 28-30 

hi\,ii" ... -;jiiiiif RETREAT 
f Going home on Break? f f We have vehicles going to f WITH TERESA GODWIN PHELPS
t several points across the U.S., i Call WILSON DRIVEAWAY i 
AND MARY ANN ROEMER 

' Bristol,lndiana ' ' 674-6794 t 
FOR: Graduate Students. Staff

' 
~~ t 
$8.00 fee. Friday Euening to Sunday noon at a Lake Michigan cabin. 

W1"~~~~~~;~~·]'~~;~·~~·· ..~ 
Sign up at Carr.pus Ministry -Badin Office 

with a flair for the CR€.\ttV€: Get involved in LIMITED REGISTRATION 
tensive care unit. 
Clark, from the Seattle area, had been listed in serious condition since Saturday. 
He had been improving steadily and his condition had been ex­pected to be upgraded in a few days, said Helen Kee, director of nursing. 
Compared to that of open-heart heart surgery patients, Clark's recovery had been "about the same and better than some," said Linda Giannelli, head nurse of the surgicial intensive care unit. 
CALL TODAY FOB GUARANTEED RESERVATIONS 
Clip and save this schedule for easy travel planning! To O'Hare From O'Hare 
LEAVE This Col ThiS Col ARRIVE NOTRE Chicago Chicago NOTRE DAME Time Time DAME BUS ARRIVE LEAVE BUS SHELTER O'HARE O'HARE SHELTER 
4:30a.m. 6:10a.m. 8:30a.m. 12:00 p.m. 6:30a.m. 8:15a.m. 10:30 a.m. 2:00p.m. 8:30a.m. 10:15 a.m. 12:30 p.m. 4:00p.m. 10:30 a.m. 12:15 p.m. 2:30p.m. 6:00p.m. 12:30 p.m. 2:15p.m. 4:30p.m. 8:00p.m. 2:30p.m. 4:15p.m. 6:30p.m. 10:00 p.m. 4:30p.m. 6:15p.m. 8:30p.m. 12:00 a.m. 6:30p.m. 8:15p.m. 11:00 p.m. 2:30a.m. 
SOUTH BEND TIMES UNLESS OTHERWISE INDICATED EFFECTIVE 10/31/82. CALL FOR COMPLETE LIST OF PICKUP POINTS & TIMES. 
FOR RESERVATIONS 
(119) 155-3068 
OR CALL YOUR 
TRAVEL AGENT. 
~ 
_lLtniOR paR€nts W€€k£nb 

by designing the program cover for our JPW liturqy _ 
an 

Anyone in teres ted, please campus 
contact Jenny Grantham at ministry
3847 or 3850 before DeclS. 
~.................................................~ 

Wednesday, December 8, 1982 -page 6
~SttOWC SE 
Thetesa Guatino 
For the IQdies...
features 

FOOD 


I
t was a cold, damp, and drizzly night on the Notre Dame campus. The trees, bereft of their leaves, loomed eerie in the pale lamplight. My friend and I shivered as we started our walk across the North Quad, not knowing what lay ahead ofus in the darkness. All we knew was that we had a job to do against all odds. Our mission: to investigate some of the Notre Dame food sales. Determined, we headed toward Lewis Hall, our first destination for the 9:30 opening oftheir sales. Lewis loomed up in front ofus out of the darkness. Not having Detex cards to get in, we huddled against the building until some kind soul opened the door. Having overcome that obstacle, we finally encoun­tered it: The Food Sales. It was small, having only two girls and a cash box behind a table, and ofcourse the main attractions. We carefully ex­amined the contents of the room and found nothing terribly exciting; the usual junk food and junk foods attempt at nutrition, granola clus­ters, granola and fruit bars. 
There were separate refrigerators for diet and regular pop (or soda, as my New York friend put it), each costing 35 cents a can. The variaties ranged from the usual Pepsi and Dr. Pepper to the more exotic Mr. Pibb. 
Everything was available for the dorm room cheffrom the small packages ofpopcorn and oil, to in­dividual packets ofsoup and hot cocoa mix. The only warm food here, however, were bagels that could be put into a small toaster oven. In all, the small room resembled a small grocery store minus the meat and produce sec­tions. Upon leaving, I decided to ex­
perimment and try a Nature Valley Light and Crunchy, which I found to look like something you'd dig out of the back yard. 
Leaving Lewis behind, we stepped out into the cold again and headed over to Walsh, our next stop. 
Walsh's food sales, which opens at 10 p.m. first gives the impression ofa short order restaurant. Food orders are given at a small window while the food is busily whipped up in front ofyou. This was-much more elaborate and offered such dorm delicacies as hot pretzels, popcorn, pizza muffins, toasted bagels, and english muffins. Being the adven­turous eaters that we are, we or­dered a pizza muffin, which as everyone knows is an english muffin with some tomato sauce poured over it and a little cheese stuck on top. They gave it to us cold and you 
are then expected to warm it up yourself in a toaster oven, which we didn't discover until after it was eaten. Here, at least there was some­place to sit in the small room. The usual junk food was also sold, with 

SALEScans ofpop being more expensive at 40 cents a can and 45 cents a hottle. 
One last stop would be Badin, which was my personal favorite. It didn't have the variety of hot foods 
Gtegoty Swietcz
that Walsh did (in fact, it barely had any), but what they did have was ar­ranged better. Their store, which 
Up top... 
opens at 10, was in the basement, 
features 
like the others. Badin's, however, 
menu was junk food that you can walk down the hall and buy from a vending machine. 
This left me with the following question. Who should count their blessings where food sales are con­cerned -Notre Dame or Saint Mary's women' That is something they'll have to decide for them­selves. Be careful though -you want your family to be able to recognize you come Christmas break. 

features 
same, except fur the added I p.m. to day through Thursday and wtll 2 p.m. time. Because of tired, over-switch to 9:30p.m. to 12:30 a.m. for worked kitchen hands and an un-finals week crowds. Pizza prices are written, bilateral treaty with the S2.50 for 12-inch plain, and S3.00 cafeteria, no pizzas will be made at for thick style. Napkins and bibs are this time, hut cakes, candy and other free, hut the hand and belly dancers food will he available. Pizza prices (ha.. ha1) will pass a tin cup. are S:\.75 for a whole, S2.50 for two-For Zahm Hall hungries, the food thirds, and S 1.25 for one-third. sales will be open 9:30p.m. to mid-Crumbs are free, as well as the night Monday through Thursday, I I aromas. p.m. to I a.m. Friday and Saturday, 
Flanner Hall will keep its normal and midnight to I a.m. on Sunday. hours during finals week, (to the During THE Week, they'll be serving cheers of 550 malnourished II p.m. to midnight every night, so towerites ), which are; p.m. to mid-save your pennies and nickels, kid­night weekdays, 7 p.m. to 2 a.m. on do~! weekends, and I to 4 p.m. Saturday. Stanford Hall will offer reductions 
Grace Hall will feature <:gg nog, on food from 9:30p.m. to midnight candy canes, and other items during Sunday through Thursday, I0:30 their normal business hours, which p.m. to I a.m. on Friday and Satur­will also be their tlnals week hours. day, and during tlnals week will be They will he open 8 p.m. to 12:30 open 9::'>0 p.m. to midnight every 
a.m. Sunday through Thursday, and night. Any reduced food not bought 9 p.m. to I :50 a.m. Friday. Pizza . before break will go up for bid be-prices, for those who cannot afford tween the cafeteria and the Oak the trip to Dominoe's, are S2.75 for Room Cafe. Pizza prices are SI. 50, large thick, 52.25 ti>r large thin, and $2.50 and S2.'0. ',.'um! SI.50 for regular smalL For Chicago-St. Ed's Hall will be open 10 p.m. style, get on I-80 and drive there. to midnight Sunday through 
Keenan Hall, noted for their Thursday to feed the hungry, the revues and chili cheese dogs, will poor, and the undergraduates. keep "Zaland" open 9:30p.m. to Breen-Phillips Hall food sales will 
12:50 a.m. Sunday through be open 9 p.m. to midnight every Thursday, and IO:_:w p.m. to 12:30 night. A wide assortment ofedible 
a.m. Friday and Saturday during things will satisfy the Domerettes. finals week, a time they call "the mo-lfyou are looking for "food for ment of truth." thought" during finals week, the 
Cavanaugh Hall will feed famished food sales will undoubtedly be the students I 0 p.m. to midnight on Sun-place to go. 
And down under... 
was right next to the lounge, so if it's I a.m., and your roommate's asleep, you don't have to lean againM a wall to eat whatever you bought. Tues­day is baked goods day at Badin and Sunday is fresh fruit day. Plus, as an added attraction, Badin has Eskimo Pies which you don't find just anywhere. 
I decided that whill: I was at it, I should see what my own school, Saint Mary's, has to offer in com­parison to Notre Dame's food sales. The answer: not much. As any famished Saint Mary's student bur­ning the midnight oil can tell you, SMC food sales are only held on Sun­day nights, and are sponsored by dif­ferent clubs and organizations. Consequently, they're only held whenever a Saint .\1ary's club or or­ganization needs to raise money. Thb is to avoid competition with the dining hall and the snack bar. The Sunday night that I went, the sale was being sponsored by the junior Class in LeMans basement. The big­gest contrast to ND here was that all the food was hot. Your order is given at a small table while girls in the hack busily cut up Goodtime Pizza ( 75 cents) and raisin and plain bagels( 40 cents each). The fourth menu item was cookies for 30 cents each. 
Infrequent as they may be, SMC foodsales employ some logic that I did't see at ND. All the food here was food you couldn't buy elsewhere, while at Notre Dame, much of the 

I
n addition to the usual late-night "munchies" and Cokes, several South Quad food sales offer specials and other incentives that distinguish them from their North Quad coun­terparts. 
Talking to the various food sales managers and some friends who live on "the other quad" made my mouth water as I listened to their descrip­tions of the sumptuous goodies that they enjoy on a daily basis. Maybe, just maybe, they've piqued my curiosity level enough to entice me to make that long trek across campus on a cold, snowy evening. 
I shall now make my modest at­tempt to describe these delicacies so that each of you will boycott South Dining Hall in your eagerne~s to sample the goods that each food 
~e semester begins to wind 

.l down, the countdown until departure date turns to minutes and seconds rather than days, and the thought ofhitting the dining hall for one more meal brings thoughts of starving children in Asia. The mind knows from first hand experience that food does not have to taste like 
corragated cardboard, nor look like it, nor smell like it ... One oflife's finest fair weather friends is food and to disguise it i~ a crime akin to dress­ing up the Memorial Library's Moses. 

Fear not, food addicts. To facilitate the studenrs' "food tlxes," the resident halls' food sales are gearing up to meet the massive munchie mob~ and supply all with a bounteous booty. While their nor­mal operating hours tit the needs of their particular dorms, many are trying to earn a decent buck by offer­ing extended hours during finals week to accommodate the dilligent, hard-working student, as well as the famished one. 
Here are the schedules for the food sales establishments on campu~. a must for a student's clut­tered tlnals week decor: 
In Farley Hall, candy canes, holiday boxes and other Christmas goodies will highlight the items of­fered. Regular hours are 10 to II :.~0 
p.m. Monday through Thursday. On Friday, Satur,:Jay and Sunday, food sales will alleviate hunger from 9:30 to II p.m. Finals week hours are the 
sales ha~ to otli:r. Besides the ~o­called "u~ual" itl·ms ( ie., soda, potato chips, pizza~. and candy bar.,) that are sold, most dorm~ try to offer special deals and innovative services in order to lure customers away from the ··compl·tition." 
Although all of the dorm~ sell piz­zas (except Howard, whose small facilitie~ prev<:nt them from doing so), yet sizes vary from dorm to dorm. For example, Morriss<:y selb "mini-pizzas," and several dorms, including Pangborn, Carroll, Fisher, and Dillon sell half pizzas and/or ii~­dividual slices. Also, Alumni features pizza muffins, which con~bt ofan in­dividual's choice of toppings on an English muffin. If the South Bend winter weath<:r is tlercely raging outside a student doesn't even havl· 

to call (;odfathl·r's or Domino·~ in order to have a hot pizza delivered to his door, hecau~e Lyon~· tiJOd sales delivers pizzas to all South Quad dorms. 
For those who can'tmake it to the dining hall's deli har, a number of f(>od sales sell hot and colu deli·and submarine sandwiches. Varieties in­clude a choice of ham, roast beefor turkey topped with cheese. While some dorms buy their sandwiches from distributor, Howard and Pangborn's are freshly made to or­der. As an alternative to sandwiches, most South Quad food sales also sell hot dogs. For dessert (if you have · room). ice cream bars, sandwiches, and Eskimo Pies are in abundant supply. 
In order to .:ase the financial bur­

den of the~e l'ating sprees on the wallet. Carroll and Howard oiJer credit for their re~idl·nts. According to their f(>Od sale~ manager~. the ar­rangement is mutualh· hcnelicial t(>r both residenh and the manager's protlt margin. Once or twice a semester, residents are hilled for the purchases they haYe made Carroll's food sales manager explained the benefits ofthi~ practice for both resi­dents and manger~ by saying."Since we're the smalle~t dorm on campus, we know everyone, so it's no problem. Also, it gives a us a lot of business that we might not get otherwise." 
So, if you're tired of the usual routine, take a walk over to South Quad and sample some very palatable munchies' II 
--~ 
Thv Obsvrvvr Features Section 
Wednesday, December 8, 1982 -page 7 
Whete nte you, Ptince Chntming? 
S
ometimes I wonder if! am the only one. 
It seems that way, but then again ... 
:\taybe I am the only one. 

At least, the only one over the age offifteen. Maybe it's twelve now, or i!> it possible, that it's eleven? The age ofdisbelief is declining with the passage ofevery minute, in the manner ofthe half-life of that very pre-
Tati Btown 
featutes 
cious element. uranium. I gather that the process is 
occuring much faster than even my limited scientific 
mind can fathom. 
For alii know, live minutes ago children everywhere may have stopped believing at eleven years ofage. Is it possible that thirty seconds ago, it was lowered to ten? Astounding! 
All along, doctors and psychologists have been saying that children these days are maturing faster and at an earlier age. Wisdom comes with age so they say. More wisdom means a greater comprehension ofthe what life is all about. There seems to be a direct correlation be­tween age and "sageness." 
Most college age adults have passed beyond the days ofbedtime stories and lullabies. But, without much dif­ficulty, they can r.:member the fairy tales oftheir youth. The constant." \tomm), mommy, read/tell me a story." The favorites seemed to come from the amassed collec­tion of hardcover picture books scattered about the tloor. Ofcourse, illustrated versions were the ones that they most insisted upon hearing.Snow White, Cinderel­la, The Three LilliePigs and M ickt:J' Mouse, the braim:hildren ofthe Disney era, were prized posses­sions. 
Those saddled with younger brothers and sisters and those brave teachers-to-he who have completed their instruction practicum in the South Bend school system can probably recite from memory the pages number on which the wicked witch says, "Mirror, mirror, on the wall, who's the fairest of them all." 
The plots arc intertwined in our memories of childhood: the wicked witch disguised as the beautiful queen poisons a red apple and offers the delicate fruit to Snow White who bites into it and drifts into an eternal sleep; the fairy godmother who rescues Cinderella from the ashes and smoke of the hearth, sends her off to the prince's ball where the prince and Cinderella fall in love setting up the unmasking ofCinderellaas the beloved of the prince; the wicked fairy godmother's wish comes true when the Princess Aurora pricks her finger on the spinning wheel and the Sleeping Beauty falls fast asleep. 
Across the horizon, drawn by the "deep love" that they feel, their Prince Charmings ride to their rescue. Dressed in the gilded livery ofthe king's household, they cradle the poisoned/ degraded/sleeping girl and administer the requisite "potion" ofsalvation; a kiss or a glass slipper. joy and happiness abound as the prince and his princess mount a gallant snow white steed and ride off into the glimmering sunset. 
Goodness has overcome evil and will reign forever, bringing euphoric happiness to the entranced lovers. This fantasy is impres~Pr! upon the sensibilities of 
little girls (and little boys, to some extent, I suppose). The "moral" ofthe story is that for every lady there is a Prince Charming waiting to sweep her off her feet and carry her off to "happily-ever-after-land." 
Belief in such a fantasy however. is short-lived. 
After that first "true love" in grade school. Prince Charmings and beautiful princes~es begin to lose their credibility. As children grow oldt-r and more relation­ships are formed, Prince Charmings or Sleeping Beauties multiply. No longer is there that one special guy or girl. There are multitude~ of them. 
"Happily-ever-afters" become more ofan ideal than a reality as young people watch the disintegration oftheir families, the division of a marriage, and the subsequent divorce or separation. 
Fantasies describe our ideals, not our realities. Our faith in the concept of happy marriages or lasting relationships is shaky, either from direct or indirect ex­perience. We accept the "fact" that, well, it might not last, and ifwe get married or make a permanent com­mitment, we can always break it; divorces are legal, and there is always alimony or palimony to take care of the fiscal responsibility. 
The reality ofthe situation says, "Love may be forever but we don't have to stick it out if we don't want to." Only princes and princesses fall in love and marry and live happily ever after. 
Ah, the good old times. 
As Dan Fogelberg writes, Same AuldLang Syne. 
Fogelberg's lyrics describe how he accidentally runs into his old girlfriend in the grocery store. In the course oftheir conversation, she tells him that she has married an architect. He gave her all the creature comforts of life, warmth and safety, but there was something mis­sing. "She'd like to say she loved the man hut she didn't like to lie." _ I have always sensed a bit of regret in his words; the feeling that if something had been different, he would have married her rather than letting her go to her ar­chitect. 
Fantasy could have been part of reality but ... 
But what' Why the reluctance to allow reality to equal our ideals' 
Personally, I don't understand it. But then, maybe I am the last of the remaining breed who believe in the ideals proposed by fantasy. Mind you, not all of them. I gave up looking for a particular Prince Charming long ago when gold reached S300 an ounce and sweet Pumpkin threw me off her back during my last riding lesson. And I know better than to deceive myselfby thinking that everything works out "happily ever after" 
on its own, all by itself. 
Fantasy has taught me to believe in one thing: love, as 
eternal and binding. 
Perhaps I am a product of my own environment, one 
where problems were identitled and solved, not 
ignored and allowed to fester. I've seen proofthat a mar­
riage (or any relationshi t p, for that matter) can be all the 
good things my imagination can concoct. Ofcourse, it 
means a little work ... 
Maybe I am right. 
Maybe I am the only one left. 
I certainly hope not. I hope there is at least one 
other ... 

T tivin Quiz 58 
W
e are getting down to the wire. This is the last trivia quiz in its regular format of ten questions. Next week there will be ap­proximately I00 trivia questions, and your knowledge of number one ~ongs of the past and present could prove verv prolitahle indeed. 
Tim Neely 
rock trivia 

Fir~t. to take care ofold btlsiness. here are the answers to last week's stumper. among my toughest ever, as long-time trivia fans pointed out to me. A briefdescription is followed bv the answer. 
I. The famou~ ~port' ~tar who recorded a country-and-western al­bum in 19~(, with good results ­Terry Bradshaw 
2. Another famou' sports tlgure who recorded an album ofpoetry­Cassius Clay (now \luhammad Ali) 
3. 
Actor who recorded "The Bal­lad ofThunder Road" in I958 ­Robert Mitchum 

4. 
Actress in her 70s who recorded a rock album in 1968 ­Mae West 


S. Actress in porno tlicks before she recorded".\tore, \lore. \tore" -Andrea True 
6. The two senators who recorded hit album' -Sen. Everett :\lcKinley Dirksen (R-Ill.) in 1967, and Sen. Sam Ervin ( D-N.C.) in 1975. 
'· The Vice President who wrote the melody for "'It's All in the Game" -Charles Dawes (Calvin Coolidge's running mate) 
8. 
The TV actor who recorded "Start Movin'" and later was shot to death-~al \lineo 

9. 
Disc jockey who recorded the elongated "long distance dedica­tion" entitled "A Letter from Elaina" -who else' Casey Kasem 


10. The two movie questions: 
(a) First song playing on the radio while Elliot and friends play a game in£. 7. -' Peni;:.. \\'liu Dit:d" by the Jim Carroll Band 
(b) Song playing on Lois Lane's car radio when the earthquake hit in Su­
perman -"(iive a Little Bit" by Su­pertramp 
After that set ofquestions, and especially thar last stinker. I'll bet you'rt· looking for some relief \layhe you can get some from Rolaids. but I doubt this week's quiz will help. It might, though. 
I've used this idea before, hut here it is again: a word or phrase removed ·from hit songs. All ofthem are dis­tinctive: no "I love you" or words like that. Here they are; identify the hit songs and artists. 
1. 
probably moot 

2. 
don't mind the maggots 

3. 
masturbation <!. Pacific Palisades 


5. B-17 
6. 
new Constitution 

7. 
Swarthmore 

8. 
spandex jackets 

9. 
I want a Hula-Hoop 

10. 
Beelzebub 




Petty gtows in DARK 
~)m Petty and the Heartbreakers' latest release, Long After Dark, ~is a very solid effort that grows from Damn the Torpedoes and Hard Promises. 
Damn the T01pedoes was Petty's commercial breakthrough. He tlnally detined hi~ sound and created songs that made it to the people's hearts. HardPromises was the group's followup, with three singles. "The Waiting". "Woman In Love" and "You Can Still Change Your :\lind" the latter with Stevie Nicks of Fleetwood Mac. 
Ed Kontady 
tecotd teview 

Long After Dark is a telling album. Will T.P. and the hoys play it 
safe and keep to the formula or will he experiment with new forms 
and try to generate more interest at the risk oflosing bns? 
Quite expecredly, Petty didn't play it safe. However, he did not turn away from hb present fans. Petty's songs onLong AfterDark show him branching out and allowing other musical intluences to shape his music. 
His topics are still women and love. This explains the album title. These are ~ongs that deal with human experiences that usually hap­pen long after the lights are out, both visually and spiritually. The relationship is over. The night, instead of being a time for the ul­timate expression oflove, is now for the ultimate expression ofpain, lonliness. 
The mu~ic has changed in spots. The opening cut, "A One Story Town" has the friendly, hut unsettling familiarity ofhis sound. In the background is .\Iike Campbell"s guitar whining away, adding that gentle touch to Petty's vocals. 
The single that has heen released from the album is "You Got Lucky," a song co-written hy Petty and Campbell. Campbell's guitar isn't in the background. It's Tench's keyboards backing up the vocals with a roughish. punk sound reminiscent of the Cars at their best. 
"Deliver \le" could be best described as a love song that is played like an old-time go~pel number. The S<?und is not what we have thought ofas Pett,·'s-it's a much cleaner. less layered sound-but it'~ a very well done song. 
"Change of Heart" is a bit harder-rocking than the previous curs, with classic Petty lyrics ('Til get over you, it won't take long/l've stood in your gallerv/l've seen what's hangin' from your walls/You were them t oon and the sun/You're just a loaded gun now/It gets me down") that use marvelous imagery with teenage rock phrases that allow one to catch the meaning behind the word~ without losing the feeling. 
Sidt· one end~ with" Finding Out". another Petty-Campbell col­laboration that feature~ !'>tan Lynch on drums. At the end ofthe song there is his powerful drumming at once keeping the beat ofthe song, setting the rll\ thm, and pia\ ing with the melody -the mark ofa great rock drummer. Howie Ep.,tein. who replaced the Heartbreaker' fi>rmer bassist Ron Blair (who does play on one cut) teams well with Lynch to timn a solid bottom end rhythm section. 
"We Stand A Chance·· is heavier than what we've come to expect from Petty. with a wonderful guitar fuzz and some rare but ap­preciated organ plaving In Campbell. 
"!'>traight lnw Darkne~s" features the Petty sound with Campbell and company tilling in the holes. "The Same Old You" has Tench playing some ~oft kn·board rifts, putting together another solid per­formance. "Between Two Worlds" has Tench puttingon a show with some awesome keyboard work, a very nice solo hy Campbell, and some excellent bottom end work by Blair ( hb only cut). 
"A Wasted l.ife", the last song on the album, is a pleasant surprise. While doingHard Promises, Petty said that he wanted to put this song on. hut there wasn't any room. He should ha' c ntad. room. The sound is bouncy and light -even the vocals remind one ofjimmy Buffett with a really bad head cold. It's a good song with some very good synthesizer work and some tender guitar. 
Long After Dark is Petty growing out of his shell, away from the 60's intluences that swallowed up his earlier excellent work and shaped the ~ound ofDamn the Tmpedoes. The album will not out­last Torpedoes on the charts, but it wasn't meant to -this album shows a musician growing, something you don't see the average pop musician doing. 
.. 
Editorials 
Wednesday, December 8, 1982 -page 8 
A modest proposal for the MX missile 
With apologies tojonathan Swift and thanks to Tomjemieli~y 
A sure sign of these anarchist times is the great controversy over the "dense pack" MX missle system which President Reagan has proposed to install in Wyoming near the end ofthe decade. 
I believe that this communist-inspired sub­version targeted against the national security interests of the United States is a direct slap in 
Robert lloyd Snyder 
Then Mid-Week 
the face to the ideals by which our peace­loving founding fathers intended for this country to achieve greatness. 
Opposition to the :\1X missle sptem in its "dense pack"' variety arises from the desire of foreigners to sec the natural and inevitable rise ofthe United State~ to its proper "number one" standing in the world's nuclear dub checked. 
Examine the so-called ··populist" peace movements in Europe: the countrit:s where they are most active -West Germany. Hol­land and Belgium -are all countries that would-now have (inman as their first lan­guage if we had not intervened in World War II. 
Finally. the Europeans have long been jealous of the American high standard of living, the infallibility of the American democratic process, and other wonderful ad­vantages of life in the t:.s. 
All one must do is compare the behavior of the populations of these nations-supposed­ly our "closest allies" -and the civil behavior 
in those Latin American countries -such as 
Bolivia-which our President has just visited 
in the South. Their governments do not spon­
sor the rude demonstrations that greet ever) 
American president who visits Europe. 
The opposition here in the l"nited States ha~ been led by a few renegade religious leader~ who have obviously chosen to put aside all the teachings of the books of Deuteronomy and Leviticus, preferring instt·ad to base their arguments on vague "humanity" and "morality" principle~. 
The cold, hard facts of the case show there 
is no qut·stion of where the Cnited State~ 
resides in a balance of nuclear power uis-a-l'is 
the Soviet l'nion. 
The l'nited States is trailing the Soviet lin­ion in actual numbers of launchers tin· strategic missle~ and in the average "throw weight" of each missle. This means that each Soviet missle has the capability o[ say, de~troying not only South Hend, hut would also take :\ti~hawaka along with it. 
Our bomb~ could probably take out a li.lir­sized city like .\lin~k or Kiev. but what would we do about huge population centers such as Leningrad or \loscow·~ 
The l'.S. simply cannot aft(,rd the luxury of 
ignoring the problems of"throw weight'" di~­
parity while continuing expend valuable 
resources in wasteful programs which aug­
ment the t;tirly luxurious lifestyles -by 
world standards-of those in this n.ttion who 
refuse to work. 
At the approximate coM of only $1,000,000,000 a missle, the ,\IX is the most cost-effective option to prevent world-widt· Soviet aggression by the l nited States. The :\'IX is tested accurate to with I 'iO yard~ of its designated target. and nearly doubles the throw weight of the current active American ICB.'vl's. 
The Reagan plan fi>r "den,e pack" deploy­mentis also the best way to convey to the Rus­sians that "we mean business" while still maintaining the moM "humane" basing sys­tem for our Comnue-blasting "Peacekeepers." To deploy the mis~les in a compact area, rather than in various "six-packs" or "twelve­packs" around the country makes much more sense in the event ofa nuclear war. 

:'\lot only would the Russians fail to destroy the majority of the .\1X f(Jrce through the "fratricitlt-"' principles inherent in the "dense pack" hasing, hut all the Soviet missles would be initially aimed at Wyoming, which is surely the "most expendiblc" piece of property in the United States. 
Hy increasing American defense spending, the Russians will find it necessary to divert an even greater portion of the ~oviet budget to defense spending to match the U.S. -money which could luvt: been spent on feeding their people. Evt·n if the Soviets develop the ability to invalidate the deployment principles of the "dense pack," that will give the U.S. more than adequate reason to break the Anti-Ballistic Missle Treaty which it signed with the U.S.S.R. in 19""1, enabling the l.nited States to unleash its superior technology and achieve the per­teet anti-ballistic missle het<>re the Russians. 
finally. it would enable the linited States to develop a "launch on warning" principle to complement its current pledge of "first use" to deter Soviet aggression in Western Europe. 
In every sense of the matter. the :\'IX missle in "dense pack" deployment make~ perfect and logical sense. The \IX missle. the "Peacekeeper," will msure that this country will prospt-r in unquestio11ed peace through­out the 20th centurv and insure that Russian languagt: courses will stay out of tht· grade schools and high schools of this nation. and keep it in our universitie~· l.mguage depart­ments"where it belong~. 

Kennedy makes noble choice to withdraw 
"1 will not he a candidate for President for the United States in I984." With this briefsen­tence, Senator Edward Kennedy dashed the hopes of many Democrats and warmed the hearts of many Republicans as he withdrew his name from presidential contention. 
Only a handful of politicians could till a committee room with reporters to announce 
Thomas Melsheimer 
Guest Columnist 
a presidential bid. It is testimony to Kennedy's drawing power that his decision to withdraw created more thunder than most senators could expect in a lifetime. 
Kennedy cited several reasons for his unex­pected decision, all ofwhich centered around his family. He did not want to put his im­mediate family through the rigors of another campaign so soon after his initial bid. Further, his divorce from wifejoan has created an addi­tional family strain, one which could only be exacerbated by a protracted campaign. 
For a man who has been subject to such un­fair vilification and. occasionally, unfair ex­ultation, in past years, this most recent move has earned him justifiable commendation and respect. 
Cynics like conservative columnist William Satire will self-righteously snarl about Ken­nedy's insincerity, but such complaints have a characteristically hollow ring. For it seems clear that if any time seemed ripe for a Ken­nedy campaign, it is now. as the country finds itself struggling to extricate itself from the quagmire of Reaganomics. 
With defense spending and unemployment at all time highs, Kennedy's brand of compas­sionate social and economic liberalism and his call for a bilateral nuclear freeze would no doubt find many supporters. This is not to sug­gest that Kennedv is the answer to all the country's problems or even that he would he capable ofdefeating Reagan in l9k·l. 
To be a viable candidate, Kennetlv must 
conceptualize a national policy based on the 
realities of the 80's and not the slogans of the 60's. 
Ofcourse. even strictlv personal considera­tions can have some political payoff" and the senator will no doubt reap some desened political gains from this decision. Ju_st as his "runner-up" ~peech to the Democratic con­vention in 1980 propelled him to the forefront of the 198-4 hopefuls, l)is decision not to run in 19k--i would seem to put him in a strategic position ti>r upcoming elections. 
Politics aside. Kennedy'~ major weakness has ;~lw.rys been the so called "character issue." His suspension from Harvard for having another student take an exam li>r him and his more serious involn·ment in the death of :\1ary Jo Kopechne at Chappaquiddick. combined with his "playboy'" image have served to create a political .tlhatross for the senator. 
\luch like a modern day Alcibiadcs, howe,·er. Kt·nnedy"s personal ch:.trm and charisma have kept him from the political graveyard. 

lf one can con~ider the Harvard incident as an immature calculation of a pressured stu­dent, and the playhoy image as a creation of a gossip-hungry pre~s. one is left with the un­dt·niably serious issue ofChapp:.tquiddick. But people often h>rget that Kennedy was cleared of serim1s culpable negligence by a court of law. 
\lanv other investigations of the incident were condtll'ted. yet no reliable evidence has 'urlaced which contradicts Kennedy's ver­ston ol what happened. lie may not. in fact, be tdlmg the truth. ~uch an observation, however. must bt· based on cyntcism. not fact. 
While Kennedv delayed reporting the inci­dent to the police, the tact remains that wht·n he did report it, he assumed full responsibility and did not try to hide his participation. In a st:.tte where the Kennedy lamily wielded in­credible powl'f and inlluence. the temptation to attempt a cover-up must have been present. Kennedy resbted that temptation. 
Even so. a man who seemed to panic and lose control at the scene would be unable to handlt-the strains of the presidency -per­haps. 
Yet a man who has carried around an un­doubtedly haunting memory ofthat death and the deaths of three brothers has managed to serve his country and his ~~··•~ as one of the Senate's most respected leaders li>r almost 20 years. 
II is n·ct·nt image of :.t devoted famil~· man who put ambition aside tilr tht· sake of his children will probablv diffuse some of rhe afi>remt·•Hiollt'U probkm~. making any futurt· campaign~ for the presidem:y a less difficult task. 
Of course, if this analv~is is correct, some would accuse Kennedv of the ultimate .\lac­hiavdlian maneuver -using his family as a pretext for avoiding an ekcuon he cannot win and putting himself in a good position for 
198R 

But Kenned~ himst'lf will no doubt support 
a candid.tte from his part,·. one who could 
conceivably unseat Reagan Barring a repeat 
of the unusual nreumst.tnc~·, of 19kO. Ken­
nedy \Vould not oppose an incumbent 
Democratic pre~ident. TllU~. he would be 
fi:>rced to wait until 1992 to make another bid. 
Could a truly self-sn·king and ambitious 
politician tolerate ~uch a delayi 
In a recent column for the .'lieu· York Times, Tom Wicker cxpre~~~:d ;t sen,~<' of relief at Kennedy',; decision. He argued that any cam­paign involving Kcnn<:dy would inevitably become centered around the problems of character. With the country facing economic crisis at home and a new Soviet leadership abroad, the last thing anyone needs is a cam­paign of personalities. 
Wicker·~ remarb are cogent, and Kennedy, 
consciously or unconsciously. may have been 
concerned with such t.tct. His early announce­
ment ~howed a concern for his fellow 
Democrats, and hi~ per~onal motivations ad­
mirahlv put hi~ bmilv before his politics. 
Kennedy still wants 10 he pre~ident. His time may vet comt· !'or now. however, while he may not merit complnc political support. he certainly dl'sene~ no smallmt·.tsure ofper­sonal respect. 

Editorial Board Department Managers 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief...... .... ,\tichad :Vlonk Business .Hanager .. . ...Tony Aiello
The Obseruer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the l'ni­
.Wanaging Editor... ....... Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller....... . .Eric Schulz
versity of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily retlect 
Executil•e .'1/eu•s Editor ...... ....... David Dziedzic Aduertising Manager ...... ...............Chris(),, <.'n
the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­
.UIC Executil•e Editor .... ........\largaret Fosmoe Production .Wtma1.:er...... ...........\laura Murphy
curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a 
Sports Editor...................................Chris Needles Circulation Manager.. ...... \lark .\1iotto
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict 
Editorials Editor ........................... .Paul \1cCiinn ~)·stems J1anager .. . ...... Bruce Oakley
the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, 
Features Editor................... .....Tari Brown
and the free expression ofvarying opinionson campus. through letters. is encouraged. 
Photo Editor ................. .................Rachel Blount Founded November 3, 1966 
(219) 239-5303 
~jb()~tS~lJ=~~==~~·~;~~S========~===================w==ed=n=e=sd=~=·=D=ec=e=m=b=er=s=,=I9=8=2===p=ag=e:::9
By !herJ/Jscn•er and TIJe .4ssociatcd Press 
Allan Butler, who had tour t:oab and an .1ssi't 1n Lakt: ~up~· nor ~tare·, '\\ eep ol \liami \Ohio J Lt.,! wcekt:nd. wa, namnl tht: CCII.\ l'i.,, <.:r oltlll' Week. \;orr~· Dame goaltender .\lickn Kap­pellc. \\ ho ,ll.lck :it! ·"1\·c, 111 hi, lir,t c.1rn:r 'tart to heat \lld,igan ~tat~· l:t'l l·nd.. ,. ·'·2. wa' \;I)', nominee. -!be Ohserl!er 
The ND-SMC Sailing Club is accepting applica­
tiOib lor po,itH>Il' on the I ')H5 1-.:ennnl\· Cup team. The Kennedy Cup ban .111nual e\ ent held in l.uder' +t·, at the: l'.~. ;\laval Academy at .\nn:q,oJi,_ .\m <>lle with h1g hoar n .. perience who would like 10 partiCJ(Xlll' 'llould contact Tom hnk :tl I OHH. -The Ohsen•er 
The Water Polo Club will hold an important meeung lor ;Ill member' tonight at -in the Caron Court of l.aFortun~·--Jbc ( Jhsen•er 
Broom-ball and ice skat~g will be featured at a pan~ 'P<llhorec: h\ the O!lice of \;on,\ ar,lt\' Athletic' thi~ l·nda\· night tt1lmnllatel\ !olio\\ 111g tile .\;mre Dan;c:-Ohio ~tate hocke~· gaml·. -/be ()!Jsen·er 
NFL players to vote on contract today· 
NEW YORK (AP)-One of the player representatives who opposed the tentative contract that ended the National football League strike predicts the league's I, SOO players will ratit)' it by a 2-1 margin today. 
Thtt 2H player representatives voted 19-9 Monday to recommend that the rank-and-file ratify the live­year, s1.6 billion agreement reached Nov. 16 and ret!ned thereaf­ter. 
"I would expect the membership to vote about the same way." said Mark Murphy, a Washington Redskins safety and militant mem­ber of the union's executive com­mittee. He was one of the nine player reps to vote against approval. 
According to Ed Garvey, ex­ecutive director of the union each team's vote, assembled and counted by its player rep, must be reported to the union's headquarters in Wash­ington. D.C., by 6 p.m., local time, today. 

That means West Coast teams have until 9 p.m. EST to call in their results. The players have the option of voting to approve or reject or of abstaining. If they vote w reject the contract, they could go on strike again or ofter to continue playing._ 
Jack Donlan, chief negotiator for the owners, has said that if the players reject the contract, the league will he forced w "re;J.ssess" its position on the make-up game, expanded playoff tield and bonus money, all of which would provide bigger paychecks for the players this year. 
APTop20 
AP Top Twenty The Top Twenty women s college bask.etball 
teams tn The Assoctated Press poll. wttn first-place votes 111 parentheses. tnts seasons records o?nd total pomts Po1nts based on20-19-18-17 etc Notre Dame opponents are 1tallc1zed 
1 usc !51) 3·0 1.020 2" Lows1ana Tech 1-1 943 3 Maryland 4-0 843 4 Old Oom1n1on 3·1 842 5 Tennessee 4 1 806 
6 Kansas State 4-0 799 7 Kentucl-. ~-2-0 751 8 Cneyney State 2-0 639 9 Long Beach Stdte 1·0 611 10 Texac:. 1-1 541 
11 Per"Jn Stale 2·0 477 12 t\Jonn Carohr"~a State 4-0 418 13 Georg•a 3·1 412 14 UCLA 4-0 372 15 South Carolina 2-1 275 
16 MISSOUri 
5·0 252 17 Rutgers 3-1 203 18 Anzona State 7-1 134 19 MtSStSS1pp1 4·0 119 20 Drake 4-2 77 
The Observer w1ll accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday. 10 am. to 4.30 p.m However. class1f1eds to appear 1n the next 1ssue must be rece1ved by 3 p.m. the busmess day pnor to 1nser1ton. All classtfleds must be prepatd. 
e1ther 1n person or through the mail.
Classifieds 
LOST . TIMEX WATCH wiTH BROwN HELP! 1 or 2 ndes needed to MD/DC/VA
LEATHER BAND ON TUESDAY, NOV TO MARK. GOOD LUCK WITH YOUR PITTSBURGH CLUB CHRISTMAS
Can leave at 4 on the 21st Call Joan at
30 OF GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE EXAMS!! WE HAD A SPLIT ON YOU AT BREAK Bus S•gn-ups Sunday Dec
NOTICES 
WANTED 
1334 or Kalht all326

THOUGHT TO HAVE BEEN LOST FARRELLS COME JOIN US AND 12 Lafortune Lillie Theater at 7pm SOME· WHERE BETwEEN THE CELEBRATE YOUR FREEDOM!!! must attend the meet1ng
need nde lo CHICAGO Fn . Dec 10, can ProfeSSional typ•ng Free pick up and NEED RIDE TO NYC OR LONG ISLAND 
STADIUM PARKING LOT AND THE wE RE PSYCHED TO SEE OUR PAC­
leave any11me aher noon call She1la 289· 
delivery Delivery W1fh1n 24 hours $ 80 BUSINESS ADMIN-!STRATION BUILD­FOR XMAS I MUST LEAVE ON DEC MAN E&M LEARN HOw TO TYPE MIOTTO!l! 
9304

ING IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL PAT AT 
per page 282-1805 19,20. or eve of DEC 18 Wtll share 
SMC. 284-5456 S Club fingers
dnv•ng and all expenses CALL BERT AT NEED RIDE TO ATLANTA FOR XMAS PITTSBURGH CLUB CHRISTMAS 
Profess•onal typ•ng Free piCk up and 288-2204 WILL SHARE$ CALL JIM 8721 BREAK BUS SIGN-UPS Sunday Dec THIS IS WAR. LEARN HOw TO TYPE delivery. Delivery W1th1n 24 hours $.80 wERE YOU DRUNK AT 814 CORBY 12 Lafortune L1111e Thealer al 7pm See OR YOU WILL LOSE YOUR JOB TO A 
per page. 282·1805 STAURDAY NIGHT?? If so, and you took ad for deta11s FLEET-FOOTED RABBIT!! you have my Levis jeans 1acket by aCCident Break Please Call Dan At 6824 anytime Need nde to and from PHILADELPHIA for been warned TYPING Jackie Boggs. 684-8793. PLEASE return it!! SIZe 34. N D bulton on break Can leave anytime after Dec 18 
Need A•de To Connecticut For Chnstmas 

pocket and N Y.G1ants key chain wilh Call Mary at 2919 if a typesetter can't type, does that mean 
WASHINGTON DC AREA Need a nde on F1esta ---GUADALUPE ---F1es1a Com· 

Typ1st Needs Work 277·8534 aher 6pm room keys 1n pocket The Jacket I got 1s he ;ust sets and sets? Mark sure does a
December 22 Call Kalhleen at 232-2533 1ng to campusM-F HUGE. and mine has greal senllmental WANT TO BUY. LOFTS FOR A DOUBLE goodiob of it! value plus I m freez•ng Call 3564. 8051, 
IN Pw Call1813

MAJOR PROBLEM Need nde to Detroit Dear Bob. Is It True you can buy 1eeps lor $44 or 8055 PLEASE or drop in Los! & Found THE MARK M!OTTO FUND 
over XMAS on Dec 21 PLEASE call P1a You may not be an officer. but youthrough the U S Government? Get the at4351 The Observer is presently accepting
certainly are a gentleman! Love. 

facts Ieday! Call 312-742-1143 Ex! LOST ONE BROwN PATTERNED RuJe needed lo/near ALBANY N Y for donations so that Mark Miotto can take
Laura
12/22 call Ken 233·8626 

7316 UMBRELLA ON FRIDAY IN 0 SHAG NEED RIDE TO MAINE X-MAS BREAK typmg lessons. PLEASE donate, this boy 
EITHER IN ROOM 204 OR 209 PLEASE is desperate for a real meaning to his life.
WILL SHARE USUAL 288-3616 aher 7 TYPING AVAILABLE· 287-4082 CALL 79781F FOUND pm NEED RIDE TO DALLAS. FT wORTH. 
Colleen Murphy. I love your new 1eans• TX . OR ALBUQUERQUE. N M FOR HEE SA FRESHMAN HEE S 6 FOOT 2.
Your secret adm1rer I need a nde to Vtrg1ma Beach. Va for FOUND. Contacl lenses case. Down PLEASE HELP' need nde to DC for XMAS BREAK CAN LEAVE 12/14 P M 180 POUNDS HEE S FROM CINCIN· Xmas break Call Greg a1234-1673 vest. Aa1ncoat, Sweatshirts. Sweatpants Xmass-aher 4pm 12/21 Maura X2244 CALL DAMON ODER AT GOSHEN COL· NAT I OHIO HEE S THE ULTIMATE IN Leh 1n Stepan Cenler Call Tom at 7559 or LEGE. 1-533·3161, EXT 213 UNCOOL AND LOVES TAKING TESTS
SCHNOOKUMS, we wtsh you and yoursNEED RIDE TO NYC OR LONG ISLAND 239-745810 claim by Thurs 12/9 NEEDED: 2 ndes to New Jersey for Xmas a Happy 20th Birthday, ON BLACK TUESDAY HEE SA CHAM­
AREA BRIAN 8600 break Can leave aher 4p m Dec 22 Will or as the FRENCH would say PION MOUSE RACE wRESTLER AND LOST ONE DARK BEIGE SMALL share usual Call Pat or Mark at 1059 REFRIGERATOR FOR SALE great BONNE ANNIIIERSAIRE IS VYING FOR ALL AMERICAN IN Albany CLUTCH PURSE. LAST SEEN IN P w LIGHTING HEE S 19 YEARS OLD
Chnstmas present! Dorm·stze. 3 2 cu tt The 218 Grace SEXTET 
Albany TV LOUNGE IF YOU HAVE IT OR KNOw TODAY
NEED XMAS RIDE TO CONNECTICUT •n excellent cond1!10n call-234·2456 ho· RICK RUEHLLLMANN HAPPY 
ALBANY ANYTHING OF ITS WHEREABOUTS. BIRTHDAY RUEHLSII BRUCE &
CAN LEAVE 12/20CALL PAUL AT 6829 ho·ho New York Melro Club g01ng to Albany, PLEASE CALL NANCY AT 2917 GUMB'I'>i&o
She has been legal for a yearKingston, Newburgh for Chnstmas Glmme a break! 
Abus1ng her body. but mak1ng 11 clear Break Cost: $90; full payment rtue at 11me FOUND: Penlax Camera Leh 1n car on 
A Chnstmas break. that •s That expenence comes w1th t1me and age Hey Secret Adm~rer. Thanks for the tuck of s1gn-up S1gn-up and •nforma!IOn. Green Field aher a Football Game Call Actually, what you need to g1mme IS a nde And she IS entenng thiS second stage •n.l did have ~eel dreams! Too bad you
TICKETS

TONIGHT ONLY, 1 sl floor La Tom at 1178 home. to the Ph•ladelph•a/ Allenlown, At 191oday. on the e•ghth of December d1dn I s1gn the note. I d hke to thank you 1n Fortune.7PM New members welcome 
PA/W•Im,ngton, Dei/Soulh Jer­She wanted to tell all those who forgo! . person How about a clue? ConfusedlyLOST Two wool scarfs -one brown and 
sey/Harnsburg/even North Jersey(!) TO REMEMBER• yours. Murph PS Do you have an yth1ngNeed Alders 10 OKLAHOMA · Tulsa area one brown and betge stnped Lost 1n dll· 
area for break Call T1m al 288-1822 or FOR SALE ONE A STU TIC PACKAGE To come by the room · And yes BLOw to do w1th the formal that wasn f? 
Call A1ta at 6797 ferenl places Reward Call EliZabeth 
leave a message at the Observer offtce CALL 6865 HER WHISTLE 7220 (239-5303) Its been stagnant th1s year and 1oos1ng rts Kimberly Don t fell Sieve thai I senllhlswash1ng1on. DC Club Your lime has 
~=•zzle 

He doesn I need to know I hope 1am thecome! S1gn-ups for I he Chnstmas bus are FOUND B-Ball T1x S Quad call Linda So !ell the Uttle Rascal you wan! to g•ve hrsl PJ.N 
Sunday, Dec 12 from 7-8 p m 1n 283-5524 
Need nde 10 DC for break Can leave her a toot LaFMune Ballroom $70 00 round lnp 
12118 Dave I 003 Or wrt•e 11 on paper · tf you happen 10 be M M Thanks for easmg the pa1n of lost
You must pay to reserve your seat LOST A 14K gold lnsh wedd1ng nng mute
PERSONALS 

1nnocence · and for so much learned ·tn(w/ hands. heart. and crown) Los1111n !he 
NEED RIDERS lo/lrom SOUTHERN If th1s InVItatiOn you decline four short months The dome and I WillNEW YORK beg•nmng of !he school year •n !he base­
CALIFORNIA or TUSCON/PHOENIX And proceed not 10 Bad1n 309 m1ss you Heres to your name someday
CONNECTICUT ment balhroom of Holy Cross SMC II IS areas for Chnstmas vacat1on CALL BOB Need Round Tnp Aide To Connecticut Remember what should draw you more NEW YORK METRO CLUB w•ll be hav1ng extremely sentimental! If found. please at x1681 For Chnstmas Break Wtll 5hare Usual 
1n pnnt anO to the fulfillment of ALL your than Meg -s Sensat1on 
dreams I love you Just 20 P S Your
a CRISTMAS BREAK BUS stopp1ng 1n contacl Rose --284-4455 Please Call Dan AI 6824 anytime. 
Is !hal today sa Holy Day of Obhgat•on• 

l1m1ng 1n the world IS 0 K With me
N Y C ($75). WHITE PLAINS($82). 
Wan!ed 1-2 nders to Fl Wallen Beach. 
HAliE A HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY MAR­

FAIAFIELD($85). HARTFORD($90) LOST 14K gold box Chain bracelet at Fla 21 TICKETS
Leaving Dec Call Anme (5544) SENIORS!SENIORS! FOR GARET! Love, Mel, Ju/ush, & Inc. 
S1gn-ups are tomghl only. WED DEC 8 N D Sat mghl (4th) al Grace or Morns· eventngs SEMI-FORMAL SENIOR CLASS JOANIE FELTES HOPE YOUR JAWS at 7pm, f~rst floor Lafortune Full payment sey If found please call C1ndy 284·4351 CHRISTMAS PARTY AT TIPPECANOE FEEL BETTER SOON!!!!'!!!!!!!! REwARD OFFERED.
due at lime of s1gn-up NEED RIDE TO WASH DC area for PLACE, $6.00/COUPLE. ON SALE Xmas Can leave after noon on Dec 21 DURING LUNCH IN LAFORTUNE HUR· 
KATHLEEN (!rom B-PJ· Whal d1d the Tired of studying? Take a few hours to 1 need a nde to Flonda tor Xmas Can quarterback say at the line when he called relax at Zahm Hall's CoHee House
Call Theresa at 4588 RY. HURRY. HURRY' leave lhe 21st Ellzabelh 7220 the play •n Morse code? Ddot-Ddot­every Thurs. 9-12 p.m. Live entertainm­
dash-Ddot-dash Love. You-still-know­ment, many varities of coffee, freshNEED RIDERS 1-way TO No Atlanta
I FOR RENT 
who baked goods. All are welcome.
Va !Quantico area) FROM Tampa/St Attanta Pete For Xmas-Call Nancy at 3397 ATLANTA Need A•de lo Atlanta on Dec 22 Call DC CLUB ITS FINALLY TIME FOR BUS 
BOSTON BUS SIGN UPS MONDAY 7 pm 

Sludent Hous•ng LAFORTUNE BRING $50 NON
'\,___L_O_S_T/_FO_U_N_D__,\ Sale 
Davea16931

Clean PEN"JSYLVANIA RIDE NEEDED SIGN-UPS!!! SUNDAY. DEC 12 FROM
REFUND DEP TOTAL PRICE $110

$100/mo 291-1405 Poconos are great tor skung Help 7-8 PM IN LAFORTUNE BALL·
LOST Tl-55 ClltlCULATOR on the 2nd LEAVES THE 22nd 
anyttme Wtll share all expenses JUGGLER ROOM $70 00 ROUND-TRIP YOUfloor of the library Sunday. Nov 28. with 
Call warren at 1167 NOW1 P1ck up your free copy of the Fall 1982
Room for rent for female grad or law stu­(gas.dnv•ng) MUST PAY TO RESERVE A SEAT case My name 1S etched on the back 
dent •n NO Ave Apts $180plus electnc Wtll share all expenses (gas.dnvmg.etc ) Juggler 31 the followtng locattons REWARD Call MIKE al3571 
Memonal Ltbrary Ctrcutat10n Desk BOSTON BUS SIGN UPS MONDAY 7 at LaFortune Center -Student ActiVIItes LAFORTUNE CONNECTICUT 
Call Madeleine at 287-4644 aher 11 Call warren at 1167 NOW" NEw YORK 
LOST Tl-55 CALCULATOR on me 2nd 
NEED· A FEMALE ROOMMATE. Ct!te NEED RIDE NYC NJ AREA FOR XMAS English Off1ce · 309 0 Shag NEW YORK METRO CLUB w1ll be havmc floor of the library Sunday Nov 28. w1th Sntte Museum BOSTON BUS-STOPS IN ALBANY,
Loh Apt . Good Locallon. 95 00/MONTH CAN LEAVE ANYTIME AFTER 12-18' a CHRISTMAS BREAK BUS slopp1ng 1~ case M~ name IS etched on the bacll. 
SPRINGFLD-BRING $50 MONDAY AT 7 REWARD Call MIKE al357t 
Utls •ncluded Call234-0824 AFTER 11 PM 284·5338 KARE"J N Y C ($75). WHITE PLAINS($82). 
TO LAFORTUNE TOTAL-$110. 

FAIRFIELD($85). HARTFORD($90) NEED A FEMALE ROOMMATE. Cute S•gn-ups are ton1ght only. WED DEC 8
sos:ro;.;--..su·s...s.I·Cir:;ij·;;;;....MoNo'Av·

LOST A Woman s gold Bulova walch al 
Loh Apt. Good Locallon. 95 00/MONTH BUY CANDYGRAMSI!I$ 25 only II at 7pm, f~rst floor LaFortune Full payment Reg•na s South Lounge Basement If BRING$$ TO RESERVE SEAT· PRICE
Utls Included Call 234-0824 due at t1me of s1gn-upfound please relurn Call 5487 1 SMC 1 
FOR SALE 
INCLUDES REFRESHMENTS AND AHELP!'!" I NEED A RIDE TO NYC AND 

RELAXING PARTY AFTER FINALS LOST PAIR OF GLASSES THURSDAY 
5-BEDROOM. COMFORTABLE. COM­FROM NYC FOR CHRISTMAS BREAK PLETE-!. Y FURNISHED HOUSE. CLOSE WILL SHARE USUAL PLEASE CALL 
CALL 277·3276 IF??? grandma s cook1es. smoke alarms. w1ne MORNING IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 
FOR SALE 1981 HONDA ACCORD LX. and candlelight. turkey day I 1! turkeys
TO NDU. STARTING JULY. 1983 CALL JACK 6720 1653 REwARDI!I!!i 
288·3942 like new · 19.000 m1les CrUise. AIC. P S . (d1nner partners). corby s. bndgel s. sub· AM-FM cassette $7800 Phone urban elkhart, them btrds, and an awful lot 
Cost of stamps effectmg your Chnstmas of love aLOST one pa1r of glasses. m a brown 
CLEAN. FURNISHED APT CLOSE TO Plymouth 1·936-7032 correspondence? Buy OBSERVER clas­Albany -little d11ty of doodge and case. near Stepan Parkmg lot call call 
d1onne don at 1771 
CAMPUS 135/MONTH 233-8163 sihed •nstead' Available at theN D Ob­Albany 69 Red vw Bug Good Transportat1on 
server off•ce 9 30 to 3 and the Sa~nt ALBANY Near NO. 2-bdrm . unfurnished ullltt1es York Metro Club Chnstmas Bus.
Besl Offer Call 289-3263 New
FOUND one Sliver and black tabby cal Marys offtce noon to 3 Monday thru 
pa1d less gas Call 272-0261 Fnday stoppmg 1n NEwBURGH, KINGSTON. 
LONG DISTANCE MESSAGE FOA NIM. 
for further •nforma!lon call283-4305 
Desperately need ride to Pittsburgh­ALBANY. all $90 round-tnp S1gn-up. 
ROD GYNOS HAPPY 23RD B-DAY, JIM Furnshed house for renl.gd Dec 18.Cal! Karen at 7939 HEY WHAT Tontght only (Wednesday).7PM, 1st floor 
LOST A gold s-cha1n With a gold cube on HAPPENED TO CHEAP­GIBLIN! HOPE A G-TOWN B·DAY IS AS 
campus.ava1lab1e La Fortune Full paymenl due. new mem·
11 If you lind 11. please call Laura at 4624 cond .4bdrm .close to ································································ SHOT??? 2nd R.S. WILD AS NOS WERE! GOOD LUCK ON 
1983·1984 school year Call287-5361 RIDE TO NYC area wantd for Xmas break bers welcome FINALS --MISS YA. LOVE LITTLE ET­Great sentimental value Thanks as early as Fn. Dec 17th Call Tom 
WILL THE CHEAPSHOT SHOW TA(HI WALLY & MO•) 8425
ROOM FOR RENT for spnng sem RETURN??? wRITE wSND AND TELL DOC. FOUND CHARM !rom a charm bracelet house pnv THEM HOw YOU FEEL ABOUT THE I m d01ng f~ne. hope you re the same. 
A CHRISTMAS CAROL form of a gold mug. w1th plaque on front good nmbrhd A1ders wanted to Detro1t area or pomts SHOw BEING SUSPENDED! wSND Please remember the days of p•zza and Today7:30&9.30reads .. BELLE VERNON PROM. 1982 $100/monlh easl along 1·94 Departure w111 be 1n !he P 0 502. N D !NO 46556 HELP!!! champagne Carroll Hall SMC see JIM 1n 216Keenan, or call me at 3274 call B•ll233·3014 lale ahernoon on Dec 19 Call Tan at 239· DRAC 
Cost is 1.00 for a great mov1e! 
5313or 79811ate at n~ghl lmag1ne all the people h\ltng life •n peace 

1
, 

r. ~-r~·h_e_O~b_s~er_v~e7r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wednesd~,December~1982-p~e10 
Zavagnin third team 
Walker heads All-American list 
wide receiver Kenny Jackson
and Southern Methodist tailbackNEW YORK (AP)-Georgia tail­Penn State, tackles Bill Fralic of PittEric Dickerson. The rest of the of­back Herschel Walker, the Heisman and Don Mosebar of Southern Cal,fensive unit consists of tight endTrophy winner, and Nebraska cen­guards Steve Korte of Arkansas andGordon Hudson of Brigham Young,ter Dave Rimington, who captured Bruce Matthews ofSoutht-rn Cal and the Outland Trophy, were among 


placekicker Chuck Nelson of Wash­six repeaters named yesterday to ington.
The Associated Press All-America Others n t amed to the defensive 
college football team for 1982. 
unit were outside linebacker Wilber 

Walker, a 6-foot-1, 220-pound Marshall of Florida. tackles Garyjunior who figures to become the 
Lewis ofOklahoma State and Gabriel sport's all-time rushing leadt:r next 
Rivera of Texas Tech, linebackers season, and Anthony Carter, Michi­
Ricky Hunley of Arizona, Mark gan's game-breaking wide receiver, 
Stewart of Washington and Darryl were named to the All-Americateam 
Talley of West Virginia, roverback . for the third year in a row. 
Terry Hoage of Georgia and punterRimington, two-time winner of 
Jim Arnold ofVanderbilt. the Outland Trophy as the nation's 
Fralic, a 6-foot-5, 270-pounder, is top lineman, made the All-America 
the only sophomore on the All­team for the second year in a row. 

America first team. Hoage, Hudson,

The other repeaters are defensive Hunley, Jackson, Marshall and 
end Billy Ray Smith of Arkansas and 
Walker are juniors.

defensive backs Terry Kinard of Walker has rushed for 5,259 yardsClemson and Mike Richardson of in three seasons and ranks third on 
Arizona State. 

the all-time NCAA rushing Jist. Joining Walker in the backfield 
needs 824 yards to pass Pitt's Tony are Stanford quarterbackJohn Elway 
Dorsett, the leader with 6,082 yards. 
ND-IU

Belles finish second 
• 
boxscore

tn tourna111ent 
lnd•ana 68, Notre Dame 52 Indiana (68) 

By DAVE IRWIN totaled 13 and Cindy Short pumped 
Indiana head coach BohiJy Knight (left) con­
M FG-A FT·A R F p
Sports Writer 

fers with Digger Phelps (right) before last night's
Witt'Tldco 39 3 7 6 f) 11 2 12 '<11Chel 34 4 8 9 9 6 3 17 

in 10 as the Belles set a team record 
Notre Dame-Illgame at the ACC, won by Knight's
for most points scored in a game."You've come a long way baby" 
Bouch1e 34 7 10 55 8 4 19 

Hoosie1:~ 68-52. (Photo by Rachel Blount)
Tho'Tlas 29 2 4 3 5 5 2 7
Saint Mary's beat Huntington lastwas the rallying cry of the women's 

Brow~ C!7 1 2 4 5 3 6

Wednesday, 71-6I, to give Rouse hismovement in the 1970s. 
Blab 1-. 3 4 1 4 7first victory as the Belles' coach. 
Robo··~o 1} 0 1 0 ij G

That saying could apply to the 
.. . Hoosiers 
Suess scored 24 to lead the Belles, 
GiO'Tlo 0 0 Cl :J ~

Saint Mary's basketball team as it 
Dakocn ~) 0 [j lJ ., ,j

with Van Ort and McQuillan addingsmashed Bethel College, 111-55, in 
Flower~ 0 0 0 0 ) '; )

I I each.
the Goshen College Classic Saturday 
Morga· 0 0 0 1 j 0 

"Hopefully we'll be able to get by"That win got the monkey off our'· 
COIIfii/Uei/ji'OII/ jJllgl.' /.!
Ca-~ero· 1 0 0 0 0 J

afternoon after dropping a 68-58 Fairfield and Dartmouth (Saturday's
200 20-36 28-35 33 14 68

back," says Rouse after the Belles FG Pe• 55., FT Per BOD Tea·..., 
decision to Franklin College, which t"Hc::lps ot the Marion, Ind., product. opponent). Then I don't want themhad dropped two close decisions towon the Division II national cham­
ebou~ 15 1 ur•·overs 11 Asso,.'S 12
T 

"I think he had a little glow in his to touch a basketball tor a week. I'llstart the year.
pionship in 1980, in the opening (KitChel 4. Tno r.as 3r Tech~ICdiS '-m···e 
eye, being from Indiana." give them some time to study forSuess is the leading scorer for the
game of the Classic Friday night. Notre Dame (52) 
But, overall, there was little for their finals."
season with an average of 18.4 M FG-A FT-A R F P
The Belles ( 2-3) will be in action 
Phelps to be happy about as he ap­Phelps may be concerned about
Varr1er 3() 7 1 0 2 2 8 4 16

points per game. Through the
against St. Mary-of-the-Woods 
Kempwn 19 2 4 1 2 1 4 5 

proaches perhaps his toughest task his players' GPA's, but not their bas­Franklin game, Suess had canned 2 I 
tomorrow at Angela Athletic Facility Barlow 3i', 2 9 0 0 6 4 4 
yet -keeping his team emotionally ketball knowledge. This week'sof22 free throw attempts. Paxsoro
beginning at 6 p.m. 39 5 16 0 0 :? 2 1 0 
high for tomorrow night's game crash course took care ofthat.
Van Ort contributes 12.6 points Pnce 34 59 3 6 4 4 13 Sluby 5 0 0 0 0 r! 1 0 

"We're improving so much," says 
against Fairfield, now 4-0 after last IRISH ITEMS -Just what were
per game. Nolan averages in double Bucha~ar. Hi 15 12 3 3
first-year coach Mike Rouse. "I never night's 98-81 victory at Connec­Knight and Phelps discussing infigures with McQuinn and Short
thought we'd be this far at the end of Andree 
5 00 00 0 ') 0 

ticut. their conversations at half-court lastnear the double digit mark. Duff
the year." 0 1 0-0 2 G 
Dora~ 15 03 12 3 4 1 200 22-57 8-14 26 28 52 

Teresa McGinnis led six Saint The Belles' game with St. Mary-of­
Mary's players in double figures with the-Woods, and Monday's contest at 
FG Per 386 F T Per 571 "ea-r 18 points. Missy Van Ort added 17 the University of Michigan­rebou~·Js 1 T ur··oovers 13 Ass•s•s 6 and Trisha Noland and Elaine Suess Dearborn, will give Saint Mary's a (Paxso·· 3. :Jo:co 3, 'ecnnocars "'o·•e 
Hall•r·ne I' 1><-''o 26. '-Jo•re 0a"1e :?5 Otto

chipped in 16 each. Chip Ayotte, chance to see how far they have 
Clals J, · Ba. ·· o " Ruc•er Ra•pn rlO>ser

rebounding from a knee injury, come. 
iAIIBoa·'e, A 11 J45 

Notre Dame Student Union 
&WAOR 

Ef&;,
Proudly Present the Satellite Presentation of 

THE WHO STORONTO CONCERT Fri., Dec. 17-1 0 p. m. -Stepan Center 
Festival Seating-Student Tickets $4.00 
Tix available at SU Record Store A Campus Entertainment Network Presentation 
"We just have to get everybody night? "We were talking about ready," said Phelps, who obviously what's the best restaurant in Misha­meant not only his players but also waka," said Phelps, "but that's about the fans, who have been uncharac­it" .. .Indiana shot 56 percent for teristically quiet so far this season. the game. 
.Swimmers 
' •• .-.~l~ n.:l..lJru 111 Uit:' ilJ\i\J·yaro rrcc:. 
COI/Iilllll'ilji·olll /Jtl,<.:,t' /.! 

with a winning time of IO:O-t.5-5. Other Irish first place finishnsseconu~ ), anu ~11e1la H.oesler in the were AI Harding in the 200-yard200-yard buttertly ( 2:16.99 ). 
freestyle ( I :-t6.-t6 ). Hill Green in theThe :\lotre Dame men won all but 50-yard freestyle ( 22.8-l seconds),four events on their way to a 69--t3 Paul .\1cGowan in the one-meterdunking of Western .\1ichigan. 
diving ( 255.0 points), Paul Benz infreshman Blaise Harding and Dan the 200-yard backstroke (2:05.28 ),Flynn were double winners for the :'\like Havnes in the 200-vardIrish. Harding won the 200-yartl 1.\1 
breastrok~ ( 2:22.-t I ). ­in 2:05.-tO. Flvnn was victoriou~ in 

The record oi the women's teamthe 200-yard buttertly with a time of stands at 1-1, whik the men posted
1:S9 .. ~-~-Flynn anti Harding teamed their initial victory. 
with Glenn Battle and Greg Bohdan 

Both the men and women return
to win the -tOO-yard medley relay 

to action in a doubleheader this
( 5:-t6.Hl ). 
S•tlllrtlay at Cleveland State.
Sophomore Tim Bohtlan set a new 

!( ~ '' ~;~: '~,:: ':::~:~'''''''''" ' ' 


ChaiRS t)ue tomORROW 
-::::' ------·~ :__.. . t 
i·::,,,,,,,,,,,,,~,,,,?,~,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,""'''"''"'"''''"""'''''"""""''"'"?"'P-';' 
Ihe~~r======================================= 
T0 d~x==============w=e=d~n;::e=s=d=ay='=D=ec=e=m=b=e=r=s=,=1=9=8=2==p::a:::g::e=l::;l 
Doonesbury 

Simon 
Aspirin Man 
~----------------


Wf 60T 'DRO(EN WINIXW!. AND ~ 1\ND LOT~ cF DE'N\6. IT'~ GOlf() ID ."" 
COST YOU ~BZ't. 75: 
\ 
LoS~ iN THOliG Ill l
r 
COAo' TA/( INAI)VE~~y I 
: W/<NOENS !/liTo TilE / OWEI.J.JIIIG o.-TW~ NASTY, _qN.o RATHE/l 
_!!_U Nc> .ll Y', RArS .'/ 
~ELL, t..JfLI-C...fL .... 

Garry Trudeau 

]eb Cashin 
011 VARN... LOOI:IN6 TD 
RND llLl 6fT ~ 
l HAI/f IS f'liNK ~' 
lWfli/E CENTS. \ • 
David]. Adams 
::r J/EVER ----~ '0 I' BY , 
Campus 
•3:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Technological Innovation and the Productivity Slowdown," Prof. Edwin Mansfield, Library Auditorium . 

•4:20 
p.m. -Physics Colloquium, "Magnetic Monopoles," Prof. Charles Goebel, 118 Nieuwland Science Hall 

•4:30 
p.m. -. Reilly Chemistry Lecture, 


"Vitamin K-de~'pent Blood Coagulation Fac­tors." Prof. Earl Davie, 123 Nieuwland Science 
•5:30 
p.m. -}>all Banquet, Concourse and Arena, 518 

•7, 
and 10 p.m. -Film, "Sound of Music," 


Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Peoples of Praise • 
•":30 
p.m. -Meeting of the Faculty Senate, 202 CCE 

•~:30 
p.m. -Theological Issues Lecture, "The Blessed Virgin: Her Place in the Church," Fr. Ber· nard Mullahy, I I 5 O'Shaughnessy 

•"":30, 
and 9:30p.m. -Film, "A Christmas Carol," .-_Carrell Hati, sM·c, 51-----.. ~ --­

•'7:30 
p.m. -Speech, "Racism, Cultural Values and WagingJustice," 123 Hayes-Healy, Sponsored by Amnesty International, 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Aftermath of the Elec­tion." Charles Manatt, Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Sl'AC 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, Steve Orsini, Ticket Manager, Library Lounge, Sponsored by Fellowship of Chris­tian Athletes Forum 

•8 
p.m. -Boston Symphony Orchestra, WSND-AM 88.9 

•8:15 
p.m. -Concert, The Golden String Quar­tet, Annenberg Auditorium 

•8:
15 p.m. -Film, "Our Lady ofGuadalupe," 115 O'Shaughnessy 


T.V. Tonight 
I 
1 

P-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, December 8, 1982 -page 12
S~orts 
Hoosiers win, 68-52 
IU defense stops Paxson, Irish-
By CHRIS NEEDLES rebound and four turnovers in 19 second half worthy of the highlight Sports Editor minutes. tllm. Paxson. meanwhile, showed some The Hoosier~ hit I 0 of Ic; from the Kentucky taught them how to effects of the knee injury that forced field after intermission. manv of shoot from the outside. him to sit out practice on Sunday them coming on perfectly cxec~Hed UCLA taught them how to keep and Monday. Paxson was also bot­back-door layups, and then sank 22 their composure in the closing hered by a pain in his neck -name­of 26 free throws down the stretch seconds of a tight game. ly Hoosier senior guard Tony to icc the game. Indiana also out­
And. last night, Bobby Knight Brown, who played "human rebounded Notre Dame, 21-10, in taught them just about everything shadow" and held the senior all­the tina! 20 minutes. else. 
American to an uncharacteristic 5-"They're a veteran team," said 
Or so it seemed. as Knight's sixth­of-16, 10-point performance. Phelps of Indiana, which started tlve ranked Indiana Hoosiers put on a "'Pax' just wasn't himselftonight," seniors last night. "And that's what clinic of patient offense, aggressive said Phelps. "He hadn't practiced in helps you. A couple of their guys defense and clutch foul shootmg to a couple of days. and he looked a (Randy Wittman and Ted Kitchel) defeat Notre Dame, 68-52, before a little tired. His shooting was off a are fifth-year seniors, and their ex­lethargic 1 1, 3·H at the ACC. little bit, but he told me he got hit perience showed tonight." 
For the Irish, it was their third (fouled) on about five of them." Paxson did make his presence felt straight loss to a Top Ten opponent, "Brown did a good job of staying on the defensive end, as he held Wit­and dropped them under .500 for with Paxson," said Knight, who won tman to 12 points, 13 below his the first time this season at 2-3. his seventh game in ten tries against average. But Kitchel ( I 7 points) and No doubt about it -this week Phelps. "He also did well to stay out center Steve Bouchie ( 19 points) was a "learning experience" for offoul trouble. helped pick up the slack. The three 
Digger Phelps' youthful Irish. But by "Paxson's as good a guard as there frontliners also combined for 2'5 last night's second half, after they is in the country. You don't defense rebounds and did not miss a single were forced to deal with a tenacious 
John Paxson. He's a helluva bal­foul shot between them in 20 tries. IU defense that held them to 39 per­lplayer." On the bright side for Notre cent shooting, the Irish looked like The Irish, despite their hardships, Dame, fre~hman guard Joseph Price they had just sat through a three­trailed just 26-25 at halftime, thanks scored a career high 15 points while hour Emil lecture. to 12 points by senior Bill Varner. committing just one turnover. "He john Paxson (4) was corralled last 11 ip,J.1t by Indiana guard Tony Nobody said it was going to be But Ill, after what must have been a played well in his -~4 minutes," said Brou•n (left) and the Hoosiers' tenacious defense. The all-America fun. guard u•as held to 10 points in Notre Da111e's 68-52 loss. See Chris 


loud tongue-lashing by Knight at 
See HOOSiERS, page 10 "We handled this week as best we halftime, came out and played a .'Veedles' slliiWUII:J' at left. (Photo by Racbel Blount) 
could," said Phelps. "I would have liked to have won one or two of these games. But you have to be Freshman Cochiolo wins three 
realistic. To have won tonight, we would have had to do most things to perfection. 
ND swimmers split against Western Michigan 
"Indiana just had excellent execu­tion at both ends of the tloor. hnr~ne~ in live events. ~imply stated, (2:1').2"' ). Junior Gina (;amboa tlrst in tht: 200-yard free~tyk relay
By THERON ROBERTS 
They're very unseltish and patient. Sports Writer the Irish lacked depth. established a new varsity standard in ( 1:"!9.~H). Credit them for taking us out of our The outstanding swimmer of the the '50-yd buttertly, with a winning Rukavina and Karen Bobt:ar es­evening for :\otre Dame was fre~h­time of 2H.-t ,'\ ~e('(mds. She teamed tahli~hed tlrst time records in the
game plan." The ~otre Dame men's and 
Notre Dame's game plan was to go women's ~wimming teams managed man \'ennette Cochiolo..'ihe won with Cochrolo, Laura Rukavina, and 200-yard backstroke ( 2:~'5.-) and down low to freshman Tim three event.~. t:rldng tir.'>t in the I 00-Julie Bo.~s to win the 200-vard med­200-y:trtl brea.'>troke ( 2:-tH.2). 
one victory in a doubleheader yes­terday agaimt Western \1ichigan.
Kempton in hopes ofduplicating his yd individual medley. the 200-yard ley relay in I :'59.+~. Karen respectively. 17-point performance against UCLA. The Western .\lichigan women 1:\1, and wa~ part of the victorious Korowicki won the I 00-yard Othn individual firsts were regis­If that failed, ofcourse. there was al­edged :\iotre Dame -H-"" 1, but the 200-yard medley relay. ln addition freestyle, serting a new pool and var­tned by Bohear in the SO-yard 
to her victorie~. new pool mark, a of breastroke ( _\S.HO seconds). Boss in 
waysJohn Paxson. lrbh men beat the Hroncos 69--t 5. she set sity with time '57.20 Kempton. however, was forced to record~ in the 100-yard I\I seconds. 1\.orowid.i joined Bos~. tht· '50-\·ard freestyle ( 26.77
In the women's meet, the Irish Gamboa, and Jeanine .\lurtagh for a
the bench just four minutes into the captured nine tirst places. but could (I :0'5.0'5) and 200-vard 1\1 See S\\:1\1 \1ERS, page 10 game with three fouls, rendering only achieve a ~ingle 1-2 tlnhh. In him to an ineffective tlve points, one corHra.,t, Wc~tern \lichigan had 1-2 
Defense-mindedBroncos 
Wotnen face road test at WM"U 
By MIKE RICCARDI selves into a running game, UCLA For their part. the Irish cannot af­Sports Writer defeated them easily, H2-'54. Wes­ford to become sloppy and must be tern Michigan will trap a lot, and willing to go to the boards with the 
Despitt· the return oft(>Ur starters, Hess will try to force Notre Dame in­aggressive Bronco~. the Western Michigan University to a track meet. Walker. \1usky and pivot player team that plays the Noire Dame "It'll be a tempo game," says DiS­Amy Sutton provide Western·~ women's basketball team this eve­tanislao. "We've got to t<>rce them rebounding power. ning at Read Fieldhouse in into making mistakes by playing a 
:\iotre Damt· will ~t:nd a front lineKalamazoo, hears little resemblance good solid halt~court defense. And, made up of forwards .\1arv Beth

to the Bronco squad that went 7-19 we've got to capitalize on those er­Scheuth and Ruth Kaiser, and either
last season. rors." Western Michigan, like Notre C.lrrie RJtt·s or Shari .\lal\'ey at cen­First-year coach Jim Hess has put Dame, is prone to turnovers ­ter, agaimt the Broncos, while fresh­the emphasis on defense, and Wes­WMU lost the handle 32 times in its man Trena Keys will be called upon
tern will play in tlve different sets, last game. 
to play a signitlcant role in her first

changing defenses at all oppor­Also, Western is a poor shooting game back olfa sprained ankle.
tunities. team. Only Walker shoots over SO "(Hess) has really instilled an ag­percent from the tloor, and the 
Freshman forward Lynn Ebben gressive spirit in his team," says Irish Broncos' team shooting percentage 
has had a hot hand in the last three 

coach Mary DiStanislao. "And Wes­its a paltry .386. 
games, scoring 60 poinb while tern already had a lot of good ath-Hess' multiple defenses are the taking the team lead in scoring ­letes." . major problem Western presents for averaging 16. S per game. Ebben's Guard Terri Walker and forward DiStanislao's Irish. The Broncos will outside shooting -she is hirting a Vicky Musky are WMU's most potent throw everything but the kitchen deadeye 60 percent from the field ­scoring threats. Walker is a sink at Notre Dame -the Irish will will be especially valuable againstsharpshooter within 1H feet, and see some man-to-man coverage as WMU as a zone-breaking weapon.

tallied 26 in the Broncos' opening well as a variety of zones. The Irish evened their record at
win against Michigan State. Musky, "We can't be confused by their 2-2 last Saturday by trouncing St.
an aggressive ball-hawker, stole six changing defenses," says Mary D. Francis, 86-42. Today's game against
in Western's win Monday over "And that will take some real leader­Western Mic_higan begins a stretch
Grand Valley State. Point guard Sheri ship from our guards." of four games against \'lid-American
Wegner, a converted swing player, The job of dealing with w:vn:·~ Conference and Big Ten foes before
runs the Bronco offense. defenses will fall to point guard Deh­Aggressive play is the salient bi Hensley, who will run the Notre the team breaks for finals. 
feature of this Bronco team. Dame offense. Laura Dougherty "The girls seem to have regained 
"Their trademark is pressure," leads the Irish in assists ( 29) and their confidence," says \1ary J) "And comments Assistant Coach Pat steals ( 10) after four games. The we're really going to need It• .. [ this Knapp, who scouted the Broncos' sophomore will team with Hensley wc~ek. Opponents from tht· .\lAC and win over Grand Valley. "They're in in the starting backcourt, while the Big Ten have alwap given us excellent condition, and they'll be freshman Denise Basford also will tough games. ready to press and run all night." get some time as the offensive quar­"There are no more St. francises 
The last wne the Irish got them-terback. on the schedule." 


t 



