... Absurdity -see insert 

THURSDAY, APRIL 1, 1982
VOL. XVI, NO. 123 an independent srudent newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
Hesburgh returns; elections 'fair and free' 
By KELLI FLINT 
E:>:e('l4/it•e News Editor 
Tht·re w<L'i a mes~agt· "loud and dear" in El Salvador that tht: people are unned, according to University Prt:sidem Theodore llt'sburgh. 
Heshuq~h said that after pt:r~onal· Iy visiting a numht:r of pollin~ areas around tht: country, ddegation memht·rs helicved the elections wt·rt· "lair and free". 
At a press conference yesterday, Ilcsburgh describt:d his rect:nt trip a.' part of tht: United States delega· tion that ohservt:d the Salvadoran dt·ctions. 
Reading a statemt:nt tht: dt:kga· tion issued, lleshurgh nott:d that group memher lloward Penniman, an dcctions expert who ha.' par· ticipatt·d in some 45 ditllcult dec· tion~. observed that the Salvadoran dection wa.' one of the most ma.~~ive exprt:ssions of popular will he ha.' ever st:en. 
"I ht:ard at lea.o;t .200 times from simpll' people who were waiting to vote that they want an end to tht: violence," llesburgh noted. 
"Voters were ~aying 'the people will win -this is a victory for the people', amidst guerrilla shooting out.'>idt• the polling areas. This wa.' their chance for a fair ami fret: elec· tion." 
Although the delegation observed some minor technical problems durin~ the day, lleshurgh claimt·d "we saw no indication offraud." 
"There were some 'spoikd votes', due largely to the iUiteracy of the people. · 
"Some people were unable to copt: with the voting procedures. A great number could not even sign the register, and used their 
thumbprints as identification.'' Hcsburgh sail! that if anyone lost tht· ekction, it wa.' the rebels. 
"The only way they (rebels) can sue .<:ct:d is iftht:y rcprt:scnt the will of the pt:oplc. They (rebels) were againM the election~. 
"The rebels burned about 250 buses and told people that if they voted, they would lw punished. 
Hcshurgh added that in spite of rehelthreats, the people came out in ma.o;ses to vote. 
"Sonw ldt at night to avoid the shooting," ht· said 
llcshurgh noted that he thinks the parties in El Salvador must work to· gether. 
"Ont· thing the people told the partit·s is 'we want an end to violence ...we want peace, as well as soda! and economic develop· ment.' 
"The word is out to forget a military solution in El Salvador." 
llcsburgh cited a need for im· mediate amnesty in El Salvador tor anyone who will put down their guns. lie noted that most of the "monsters" arc in the army, and the people know who they are. He ad\:ised Salvadoreans to "get rid of tht·m-like tonight." 
The Salvadoran people are caught in the midst ofa fight between larger powers, according to Hesburgh. 
"There is a geopolitical invasion in El Salvador," Hesburgh said. "No normal life is possible there." 
Hcsburgh noted that the Sal· vadorans arc facing "a new reality." "This was their chance to tell the 
world what they want," he said. 
Once it wa.~ done, it wa.o; almost like a fiesta -they were obviously deliriously proud. 
"l think it was good for my soul to be there." 

Father Theodore Hesburgh shows yesterday's Salmdor elec:tion. See story conc£'1'11i7lf!, lies· press conference autlie7lCe a ballot from the El burgh's trip at right. (Photo by Tonia Hap) 

Transition going well 

Burke, Yonchak take over today 
By MARY BETH PORTER 
News Staff 
"The transition is going very well," commented Lloyd Burke, the new student body president. 
Burke and Bob Yonl:hak officially become student body president and vice president today. Burke said that they will be selecting cabinet mem· bers until Easter and he hopes to have the entire cabinet in operation shortly thereafter. 
As they move into their new offices, Burke and Yonchak plan to 
NYCgang 

Preacher recalls days as warlord 
KOKOMO, Ind. (AP) -The Rev. Walter Ungerer's background of switchblade knife fights and homemade pistols can hardly be called traditional for a minister. 
Life ha.' changed drastically for the 45·year-old pastor of First Pres· hyterian Church in this central In· diana communy since he served as a "war lord" in a New York City gang. 


Ungerer, who recently completed his fourth yt:ar of service ht:rt:, joined a gang in the lkdford Stuyvesant·Park Slope an~ a of Brook· lyn -an area that wa.o; known I(Jr its provt:rty then and is now regarded as a high-crime, ~lum ghetto neigh· horhood. 
''I'm very reluctant to talk ahout thi:o.." he said in a rt•ct:nt intervit:w wnh The Kokomo Tribune. "Particularly in tht: Chrbtian church wt· havt: a tendt·ncy to look at the unu~ual rather that the u~ual. .I'm rdut·tantly sharing this -I havt· to 
protect my family and friends." 
Family efforts to survive, battling 
in the strt:ets, school problems and proverty were a part of Ungerer's 
routine as a youth, he says. 
"My family life was a very very fine 
wholesome life. My mother and 
father were good people. But there 
were three tensions there -family, 
street and school." 
Ungerer, who recalls having rats 
sharing the family's small two or 
three room apartment, says his 
father would get up at 5 a.m., go out 
with a junk cart and pick up rags, 
newspapers and cardboard to sell to 
a junk dealer. 
"My father was very industrious, he would do anything for us to survive that was legal," the minister said. 
"Another thing he used to do was hand out Kellogg's samples," recalled Ungerer. "What samples were undelivcrahle, he used to bring home. lie used to dump boxes of corn !lakes on the tloor of tht· living room -and that wa.o; tood for a while." 
School provided little rt:licf ami llngt:rt:r sap he could hardly read and write wht:n he graduated from eighth gradt:. 
Even chun:h ht:came a had ex· pericnce. Ungerer said he wt:nt with his family until ht: was H years old and that the family stopped attend· ing after hearing some people talking about how they wished the family had not come because it was so poor. 
"I think that's the case with many people today who are not made to feel welcome in a church because of the way they they dress, te way they smell or the way they look. They are rejected. It's a tragedy -a travesty ofthe church," he said. 
At 1I, Ungerer accepted a friend's invitation to join the Bcngals, a local gang. 
"I joined the gang for several reasons. I was invited, and it was a big thing to be in the Bengals. I wanted tQ be somebody. There was a sense of security in numbers. Life was pretty rough." 
His gang activity ended about 19 years ago after he found a Bible un· tier his bed and began praying, Un­gerer said. Rut he sull ha.~ physical scars and sharp memories of his car· lier life. 
As the gang's war lord, lingerer was responsible for negotiating how tights would take plact:, where tht:y would be held. 
"Sometimes we wen· surprised by a gang. They would go on the war· path and they would invade our tt:r· ritory looking for trouble. Wt: would 
See WARLORD, page 4 
continue with Don Murday's work; however, it is their intention to ap· proach the issues in a different way than this year's officers had. Burke and Yonchak intend to work more closely with the rectors, people in business affairs, and maintenence personnel "hopefully to make life better for the students." They also feel the Senate is very important as "it does work and we will try to im· prove it to make it a viable force next year." 
Burke said jokingly that the big· gest challenge for him next year was "to stay in school." Then in a serious manner he replied, "The biggest challenge is to not give up, to con· tinue pursuing things, and remem· ber that is our job." On the other hand, Yonchak feels that "the big· gest challenge is to make life here better by getting a lot of Iitle things done and still pursuing the major issues." 
Both officers feel it is very impor· tant to improve publicity so that the students know the student govern· ment is getting something ac· complished. One way they intend to do this is hy getting all the various campus groups to work together and concentrate on common goals a.' well as individual pursuits. 
Burke feels that to help fight stu· dent apathy, they need to improve communications with t t he student body. He also feels the students as well as officers must continually lob· by the administration to get things changed. Burke said, "We will con· tinue pursuit ofa student center, and work for more campus improve· ments, such as security and recrea· tion lighting ofcampus. We can't let up." He also feels that instead ofcon· centrating on issues like kegs, they will continue working on that; however, they want to move on to other issues that are just as impor· tant to improving campus life. They do not want to get caught up in fight· ing the administration on just one issue and as a result get nothing else accomplished 
As a final comment in the inter· view, Burke said, "It's going to be a good year." 



HPC elects McAuliffe new chairman Tuesday
By CAROL CAMP 
StaffReporter 
At the annual HPC dinner Tuesday night, outgoing HPC chairman Mike Martin congratulated the hall presidents for "working together as a coundl, not only in the dorms, but for campus issues a.~ well." 
The dinner. which was held at Tippecanoe Place, provided the outgoing HPC members a.o; well as their successors with the oppor· tunity to retlect upon the accomplishments of the pa.o;t yt:ar, and selecting their leadt:r for next year. Candidates'for the position wt:rt: Mike McAuliffe, former Carroll Hall presidt•nt, and Maureen Burns, who served as co·president of Lewis IIall. After listening to a brief prt:sentation by ead1 candidate, II PC memht:rs !>elected McAuliffe as the new chairman. 
In his spet:ch, McAuliffe outlined sevt:ral goals, including tht: desire to "develop continuity with The Obsert1er in the reporting of the weekly II PC meetings." He t:mpha.,izcd that the goal ofthe HPC in th~ coming year "would be to provide a unified and a cohesivt: student voice, for that voice must be organized if it is to he heard." 
See HPC, page 4 


ewsBrie_b 
By The Observer and The AssociatedPress 
A Notre Dame senior,Joseph A. Regotti of Mon­roevile, Pa. ( 16 Valerie Circle), has been named to receive the first Distinguished Studt ent Award, initiated this year by the Alumni As· sociation. Members of the Alumni Board and Senate will attend the presentation ceremonies at a luncheon April 30 in the Center for Continuing Educations. The award was established this year to honor an outstanding senior in good academic standing and based on his service to the University and the community. Other Alumni Associations awards are presented to faculty, alumni and University staff members each year. Regotti, majoring in philosophy in the Col· lege of Arts and Letters, has never received a grade lower than A minus in his chosen field, and has attained a 3.6 grade point average where 4 is perfect. His service to the University includes organiza­tion of an "Urban Plunge," an assistance project in an area of need, while studying at the Universidad Iberoamericana in Mexico. He has also worked on a curriculum committee for renewed interest in Latin America studies served as a member of the Thomas More Society, and as coordinator of ushers at Sacred Heart Church. Com· munity activists have included organization of a migrant farm labor group among students, tutoring students in a juvenile corrections institute, representing students in a right-to-life campaign, organiz­ing debates and talks on the Christian option ofconscientious objec­tion, and working with the student groups sponsoring anti-nuclear talks on the campus. 
Australian astronomers have discovered the most distant known object in the universe-aquasar 18 billion light years from earth, says Science Minister David Thompson. The dis· covery was made by a four-member team from the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization, the Australian Na­tional University, the United Kingdom Schmidt Telescope and the Siding Spring Teles..:ope, Thompson said in a statement issued Tues­day. The quasar, a quasi-stellar radio source, was pinpointed by radio and optical telescopes, he went on. The ,nost distant quasar found previously was one 16 million light years away discovered in 1972 by American astronomers. -AP 
A companyowned by country singer Kenny Rogers has filed a 5350,000 lawsuit against a South Bend firm, charging unaut­horized sales ofposters bearing Rogers' likeness. Rogers is currently scheduled to appear in concert at the Notre Dame ACC on April 28. The suit filed in federal court at South Bend, claims that the owners of LSC Corp. painted portraits of Rogers and other country stars, reproduced them as posters and sold them without the entertainers' consent. "Many people are under the mistaken impression that an 'original' art rendering ofa celebrity may be made and sold without permission," said Eric Wurst, attorney for Kenny Rogers Produc­tions. Although the courts still are trying to decide ifdeceased enter­tainers are fair game for such sales, a living celebrity has the sole right to profit from his famous face, Wurst said. LSC Corp. had not responded to the suit by yesterday. The suit was filed late last week. 
-AP 
Workers in an auxiliary building at the Donald c. Cook nuclear power plant in Michigan were evacuated yesterday when officials discovered toxic chemical fumes in the building, a plant spokesman said. Spokesman John Hills said hydrazine fumes were detected in the building, which houses pumps for a steam generator at the plant. The evacuation was ordered at 4:50 a.m. Hydrazine is not explosive but in strong concentrations is a carcinogen, Hills said. He said hydrazine is used to remove excess oxygen from the steam generator's water system to minimize corrosion. The plant was not shut down and no radiation was involved in the incident, Hills said. Officials had not determined the source ofthe hydrazine fumes, Hills said. The Cook plant is owned and operated by Indiana and Michigan Electric Co. -AP 
A May 17 trial has been set for a 73-year-old Los Angeles commodities broker who pleaded innocent to charges he conspired to smuggle 15 armed helicopters to Libya. Max Field is one ofseven men accused of plotting to ship the Cobra helicopters from a Bell Helicopter plant in Amarillo, Texas. He was released from jail Tues­day after entering the plea and posting a $5,000 cash bond. The men were charged with violating the U.S. Neutrality Act, which prohibits exporting military arms or munitions from the United States without a license. U.S. Customs agents uncovered the alleged plan. -AP 
Six more test-tube babies could be born this 
year in an in vitro fertilization clinic in Norfolk, Va., if everything goes as planned, says Dr. Howard Jone,.•. ·~ clinic's director. Jones said yesterday that with more data and experience the success rate of test-tube pregnancies would continue to rise. The country's first test-tube baby -Elizabeth Carr -was born in Norfolk in Decem­ber. In 1980, no successful fertilizations occurred at the Norfolk clinic, but last year there were seven, five in the last half of the year, Jones told University of Virginia medical students here. In vitro is a process in which a woman's egg is fertilized in a laboratory dish by male sperm and returned to the woman's body. -AP 
Sunny and mild today. High in upper 50s to low 60s. Increasing cloudiness tonight. Low in mid to upper 40s. Mostly cloudy and breezy tomorrow with a chance of thundershowers. High in upper 60s. -AP 
Thursday, Ap~ill, 1982-page 2 

In defense of Hesburgh 
As long as there is injustice in the world, there will 
always be those willing and courageous enough to 
stand up and fight for what they believe is right. 
Whether by a small group ofpeaceful protesterswaving 
placards and chanting slogans or an organized guerrilla 
unit hurling grenades and toting M-16's, action will al­
ways be taken to overcome the perceived evil forces. 
Unforunately, what often times happens is that the 
bad guy is not always clearly defined. When this hap­
pens, chaos erupts. 

Such is the case today in El Salvador. With leftists, 
rightists, and moderates pointing fingers and guns at 
each oher, one wonders ifthe recent voters could have 
done better by simply covering their eyes and letting 
the "x" fall where it may. 

It was into this tumultuous pit that university presi­dent Fr. Theodore Hesburgh and six other American representatives descended last week. Their purpose was to oversee and, by doing so, help guarantee fair elections in that war-torn nation. 
Last week, two campus.groups.protested.Hesburgh's 
scheduled trip to El Salvador, offering a number of 
reasons why they felt he should have turned down the 
State Department's invitation. 

One group, the so-called Democratic Socialists of 
America, marched in front of the Administration build· 
ing, chanting such little ditties as "30,000 dead · no 
more· U.S. out ofEl Salvador" and "Stop the draft· stop 
the war· U.S. out ofEI Salvador." 
It doesn't matter that they don't make any sense; the 
important thing is that theyrJ.ryme. After all, what good 
is a protest without catchy slogans? 
Both chants go far to portray the protesters as 
narrow-minded idealists. The chants imply that by 
having the U.S. cease all involvement in El Salvador, 
then all the killing will miraculously end; leftists, 
moderates, and rightists will join hands in peace, having 
finally ridded their country ofthose damn troublesome 
Yankees. 

One of the alleged goals of the protest, according to 
one confused demonstrator, was to "show the South 
Bend community that the Notre Dame campus doesn't 
want Hesburgh to use Notre Dame's name to legitimize 
a hypocritical election." 

Obviously the opinions of 25 hastily organized 
protesters are thoroughly representative of a com­
munity ofover I0,000 students and faculty. 
A more credible protest to Hesburgh's trip involved the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's El Salvador Solidarity Group. 
They criticized the president for his decision to 
supervise the elections, claiming there can not be a free 
election when one ofthe three parties (the left National 
Liberation Front) is not participating. 
"Hesburgh won't see any fraud in the elections," 
claimed one group member, "because the biggest fraud, 
the boycott ofthe election by the left, has already taken 
place." 

Why has the left boycotted the election? Some say it's 
because of the military's threat to "relentlessly pursue" 
138 of the movement's most important members. 
Considering that these rebels have lived at death's door­
way since first taking up arms against Duarte's Christian 
Democratic party, this reason is highly unlikely. More realistic is the notion that the left could never hope to garner the public support necessary to justify their ex­cessively violent actions. By boycotting the election, the left can claim that the election was un­-~_es~_ll~e, and thus continue their armed resis-

tance against the recently elected constituent assembly. The second claim made by the group is that "the political reality ofEl Salvador will be misrepresented to 
U.S. observers." Political reality came through in noun­certain terms on Sunday when 900,000 of the eligible 
1.3 million voters flocked to the polls despite threats of torture and death to all who voted in the election. The political reality in El Salvador is that the people want peace and they proved that they are willing to risk their lives in pursuit ofthis dream. 
Perhaps the most fallacious and irresponsible claim made by the group, as well as many others throughout the world, was that "negotiations must precede elec­tions in a political settlement." For over two years, the leftists, moderates, and rightists have been involved in a lj.ght-to-the-death struggle which has claimed the lives of over 30,000 people in this tiny country. To expect the three parties to suddenly drop their weapons and work out their differences is akin to expecting a negotiated settlement between the Russian army and Afghanistan rebels. 
Such a notion is totally unrealistic. The leader of the right-wing Nationalist Republican Alliance, Roberto d'Aubuisson, has made it clear that, if his party gains a majority of the vote, then he will wipe out all leftist guerrillas within three months, as well as all "communists" (a group in which he includes the Chris­tian Democrats). Can such a man, who has been labeled a "pathological killer" and is probably responsible for the murder of Archbishop Oscar Romero, enter into negotiations in good faith? It is highly unlikely. 
The same is true of the left wing. It is made up offive distinct and dangerous groups who can not even agree among themselves on a common course ofaction. Who is to represent them in negotiations? 
The most reasonable course of action was the one 
taken last Sunday. A vote by the people determines 
which party will possess the majority in the new con­
stituent assembly. Through this mandate from the 
populous, the party will be in a much stronger position 
to negotiate a settlement. There must be one party ac­
ting out of strength which will be able to coordinate 
and oversee the negotiations. Without this, much more 
blood will be shed with no end of the human suffering · 
in sight. 

Fr._ Hesburgh has dedicated a great deal of his life to attempting to better the human condition in un­derprivileged countries throughout the world. He is recognized as a man ofgreat honesty and integr,ity. This is why he was asked to observe the elections. If he felt the elections were not in the best interests of the people, or if he thought that American involvement would detrimentally influence the outcome, then he would not have gone. It's as simple as that. 
The reasons offered by those who wanted him to stay at home fail to follow common logic. Fortunately, the people of El Salvador do not suffer from the same malady. They realized that only the will of the people can save them from the present chaotic situation. Hope­fully, the vote last. Sunday was a step in the right direc­tion. 
DteLlbset:ver-. 
Design Edltor................. Suzanne La Croix Monica Gugle Design Assistants ............... Marilyn Larkin Sue Flynn, jim Keyes layout Staff................... Amyjo Tenbusch Typesetters ....................... Tom Maclennan Suzanne La Croix, Bruce Oakley AI Novas News Editor .................... Margaret Fosmoe Mark Worscheh Copy Editors ................................ Tim Neely Joe Musumeci B&Tlayout ...............................Alex Szilvas Editorials Layout.................. Paul McGinn Sports Copy Editor .................. Ed Konrady Typists .................................... )eanine Hynes 
Mike Onman, Tari Brown ND Day Editor .......................... Dave Grote SMC Day Editor .................Julia Trimarchi Ad Design ............................. Marilyn Larkin Photographer .............................. Tonia Hap Guest Appearances ................... Radio Stars The Rochester Connection (Thanks Ma 
Bell), Assorted Absurdities, Cheap Peeps 
The Observer !USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacation penods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Mary s Col­lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year i$15 per semester) by wn!lng The Observer P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. lnc11ana 46556 

NEEDS PHOTOGRAPHERS! 
This is a paid position with many fringe benefits. Darkroom experience a must. Bring resume and samples of your 
work to .IheJ:lbse1:ve& Office (3rd floor LaFortune) by April 2nd. 


T_h_e_O_b-se_r_v_e_r__________________,_-_-_·~-~---~---_--_-_--_-_-_-~h~r:y, April I, 1982 -page-3 -~-1 

Lieutenant Colonel Robert Webster last night spoke about 'J<t Christian and a Soldier," in the Hayes-Healy Auditorium as a part oftbe Campus Ministry lecture series. Citing scripture, Webster at­tempted to reconctle the position ofsoldier with that ofthe practic­ing Christian. (Photo by Tonia Hap) 

ISO celebrates 10neEarth Week' 
By MARY BETH PORTER 
News Staff 
The International Students Or­
ganization celebrates "One Earth 
Week" from March 31 through April 
4, according to Maria Miceli, co­
president ofthe organization. 
The ISO consists of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's foreign stu­dents, along with those ND/SMC students who have travelled abroad in pa~t years through the program offered at the two schools. There are also members who have never been abroad, yet are interested in learning about foreign cultures. 
"One Earth Week". is viewed by the ISO a~ their contribution to the Notre Dame campus community. According to Miceli, it is an oppor­tunity for students to gain cultural enrichment and insight to the cus­toms and policies ofother countries. 
The festival opens with a foreign arts and crafts sale, which began yes­terday and ends tomorrow. It will be held in the ISO office in the base­ment of LaFortune and all are welcome to come and browse. 
An international buffet will be 

Haitians found_ on beaches 
BOCA RATON, Fla. (AP) ­Eleven more bodies -believed to be Haitian refugees hidden aboard a sunken freighter -were found yes­terday on Florida beaches. 
Authorities believe all 20 naked, battered bodies found along a 10­mile stretch of Gold Coast beaches this week are from a Haitian freighter which sank late Sunday. 
Police had recovered 11 bodies by mid-afternoon, and were in­vestigating two more reported sight­ings. Authorities were unsure whether a body sighted Tuesday but not recovered was among those washed ashore yesterday. 
Because of shifting currents, bodies from the Sunday night wreck could show up through today, au­thorities said. 
"They're popping up all over 
now," said Hillsboro Beach Patrol­
man Gary Uccardi. "No one is sure 
See HAITIANS, page 4 
held on Saturday. It will feature a 
variety of foreign foods from the Far 
East, Middle East, Europe, and Latin 
America, all prepared by the ISO 
members. Following the dinner is a 
dance which will include rock, dis­
co, and salsa music. Tickets are on 
sale through tomorrow at the dining 
halls and the ISO office at S4 a ticket. 
Dinner starts at 7:00 p.m. and the 
dance follows immediately, running 
until 1:00 a.m. For any questions 
about the dinner dance contact 
Francois Boueri at 1852. 
The festival culminates on Mon­
day with"An Evening ofCultural En­
tertainment from Around the 
World" presented by the Student 
Union and the ISO. This is an annual 
event and will feature the ISO mem­
bers in such events as ethnic songs, 
dances, and a fashion show. The en­
tertainment will include an Irish 
band, a fashion show featuring the 
clothing worn by the Chinese em­
perors, including a Middle Eastern 
Dabkeh, among others. 
Admission to all events except the 
dinner is free, and all are welcome to 
attend the activities of "One Earth ·Week." 

Two week process 
Space shuttle astronauts debrief 
SPACE CENTER, Houston (AP)­Columbia's two astronauts, back from eight days in space, started two weeks of debriefings yesterday as technicians at the New Mexico lan­ding site battled blowing sand to ready the space shuttle for its return to Florida 
Jack R Lousma and C. Gordon Fullerton, exhausted from Tuesday's return to Earth, were permitted to steep late at their homes yesterday but came to the office in the after­noon to start a 1 5-day debriefing. 
Space agency doctors who ex­amined the astronauts said they were in excellent health and had recovered well from the motion sickness both suffered during the first two days oftheir mission. 
At White Sands Missile Range in New Mexico, where the astronauts landed Columbia on Tuesday, offi­cials said the craft appeared to have suffered less damage than on its first two flights. 
"The vehicle appears in terrific condition," said George Page, direc­tor ofshuttle operations. 
A close inspection found that at least one more heat-resistant tile was lost during the mission, but like the 3 7 reported lost early in the flight, it was not in a criticallocaton. 
Page said that as many as 1,200 of the shuttle's more than 30,000 tiles will be removed and treated to tighten their grip on the space craft's aluminum skin before the fourth test flight scheduled for late June or ear­ly July. 
"It'll be a challenge (to meet the June date) but we haven't ruled it out yet," said Page. 
Blowing sand posed some problems after the spacecraft landed, but technicians quickly put covers over engines and other exposed ists boycotted Sunday's eleCI , reusable spacecraft, which is launched like a rocket and lands like an airplane, will be ready to fly payloads for paying customers. 
The third mission blasted off from the Kennedy Space Center. on March 22 and was to have landed Monday. Asandstorm at White Sands delayed the 'landing by one day until Tues­day. 
The astronauts now face a moun­tain of paperwork. They must undergo intensive questions from engineers, space agency manage­ment personnel, medical officers, flight directors, and, perhaps tough­est of all, from fellow astronauts. Lousma and Fullerton will spend long days speaking into tape recor­ders answering long lists of ques-

NOWRENTINGFORSQMMER 

2 Bedrooms $290per month furnished, utilities, C!A and heated pool. Available June 1 through August 15 Call272-1441 
lions. Their first news conference after the mission is set for April 1 3. 
Columbia carried a variety of scientific experiments on its third flight, and Ken Kissin, manager of the science payload, said it was a "super mission" for science. 
An instrument aboard the craft gathered X-ray data on two big solar flares, the larger of which came on the extra day in space. 
Kissin said Columbia's instru­ments recorded puts of high energy X-rays streaming out from the flares, the first confirmation that massive eruptions on the sun produce X­rays. 
An experiment to test the reac­tion of insects to weightlessness presented something of a puzzle to scientists. The experiment involved the filming ofhoney bees, house flies and moths as they flew inside a clear box in space. Kissin said the house flies and moths returned to Earth alive, but all 12 honey bees were dead. 
Plants grown in two experiments on board were quickly unloaded 


Applications are now available for the Class of '83 
Senior Formal Chairpersons in the student Activities Office in La Fortune. Deadline for returning the applications 
is Tusday April 6 at 5:00. Questions? call Mark Mai at 1183. 
······················~·································· 


COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL 
Notre Dame Stepan Center 
n ~ 
Friday, April 2 Saturday, April 3 
7:30 p.m.-1:00 a.m. 12:30 p....S:OO p.m. 6:30 p.m.-1:01 a.m. 
• 15 College Bands • 
Ticket&:· All Sessions Pass $7.50 N.D.!St. Mary's Students SB 50 General Public .J"'"oo.. Individual T1ckets Fri. $5.00. Sat. aft. $2.50. Sat. eve. $4.50.. .; 
Judges: Billy Taylor, Charlie Haden, Frank foater, Nat Adderley, Shelly Manne, Dan Morgemlern 
Tickets ava:i'Jble at LaFortune qr call 239-5283 lor in/ormation 



DELIVERING to NOTRE ' DAl\tiE and SAINT MARY'S 
Ur.l<•r th•· /-'.\ 1'/U..\.\ /)/J.I\ FU \·, 
Medium--pepperoni -sausage Or combo 
Ftee Coke: 1Uter w;med. Pizza 2 Utera w /Lo.rge Pizza 

Tuesday, and Kissin said they were in "excellent condition and wen· growing." The experiments were designed to gain information needed to grow plants in space in the future, when people may live in orbit for long periods of time. 
-

Counselors assert April workshop 
The Counseling Center is sponsoring a free Assertion Training Worksop for students during the first two weeks of April. Dates arc April 5,7,12, and 14, Monday and Wednesday evenings, from 7 to 9 
p.m. During the workshop, par· ticipants will not only learn what as­sertion involves, but will also practice, in a non-threatening set­ting, assertive behaviors designed to lead more effective interactions with others. 
Driver has fresh pizza for sale on truck. 
HOURS: ffion-Thurs and Sunda 
sPm -10:JOPm Fri. and Sat. 5Pm -12:30Am 

The Observer Thursday, April 1, 1982 -page 4 
...Haitians 
continuedfrom page 3 
about the numbers." 
With six known survivors added to the mounting number of bodies, the Coast Guard speculated that crewmen on the Haitian freighter had concealed refugees from Coast Guardsmen who boarded the ship off the Bahamas early Sunday. 
The survivors, however, stuck with their story that there were only 10 people on board the ship. 
The bodies of 12 men and. eight women were refrigerated at the Broward County Medical Ex­amin_er's Office in Fort Lauderdale. Officials there were making arrange­ments to store additional bodies in refrigerated trucks. 
Autopsies on 1 0 of the latest bodies showed they all drowned, said Broward Sheriffs spokesman Chuck Eisman. "They all seemed to die approximately the same time ­late Sunday or early Monday morn­ing," Eisman said. 
The victims ranged in age from the late teens to early 40s. "They're all black-suspected Haitians," said Eisman. 
An appeal was made to south Florida's Haitian exle community for help in identifying the bodies. 
There have been several tragedies 

involving refugees from Haiti. More than 50,000 Haitians have come to the United States since the influx began several years ago. 
The highest confirmed death toll in one accident came last October, when 33 Haitians drowned after their wooden sailboat foundered off Hillsboro Beach. -Haitians . who arrived on a refugee boat last sum­mer told authorities that their cap­tain had killed more than 100 other Haitians, but the story has never 

been confirmed. 
Strollers began spotting bodies on 
their condominum-studded stretch 
of beach early Monday, the day after 
the wooden freighter Esperancia, es­
timated to have been between 49 
and 70 feet long, broke up in fifteen­
foot seas. 
The Coast Guard said there was 
no evidence that another Haitian 
vessel was involved. 
...HPC 
continuedfrompage 1 
After accepting an engraved plaque from the HPC, Martin ack­nowledged the contributions that" several HPC members have made to the Council during the year. Those who were recognized for their efforts were Executive Coor­

presented tonight, Friday, and Saturday, each dinator John Gallo; HPC Senate night at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. (Photo by representatives Lloyd Burke, Paul 
Tonia Hap) 
Callahan, and Jack McKenna; for­mer Alumni Hall president John Green, for revitalizing the Sowder Award and making the arrange­ments for the HPC dinner; and HPC secretary The .resa Ross. 

...Warlord 
Also,. Martin expressed his view 
that "hall presidents tend to be people of action rather than waiting for things to be done-they get very few accolades, and they only hear about things when they go wrong; thus, they are driven by their sense ofsatisfaction and hard work." In conclusion, 

Martin stated that he was "proud to. ----·had razor-sharp edges. So when you-..her-.:.:_ produced the turnaround in 
have worked for the HPC for twci years" and he wished the new council members "the best of luck." 





Rmoaas 
The last chanceto sign up for SpringSenior Portraits time sittings 
AJ.P!lllt!Ll,&,U,Q& 
~mJ~-JrJLoea:~a•woaruBa
............ 
llaGJIPJrJl;a ....
•••._a_, 

Missed appoi..11tments shouldbe rescheduled now!! 
.ANYTHING GROWS 
t-1 ORIST -campusdelivery /272-8820

HO.USE PLANTS 
:_GJEIS. IELEELO_RIST ~(. IRONWOO~ WIRE FLOWERS -TOLL ROAD 
. DIRECTLY get your h-all formal EAST of CAMPUS corsages and boutonnieres··114mi. N. of Dpuglas 
free delivery to stepan center 
r~~-~~~~~~~~-~~--~--~--~~~~~ 
. PRESENT THIS COUPON··' l
1I 25% discount on all-house plants. : 
I ND-SMC : 
I I 
I . l 
.• 
gasoline bombs (a soda bottle,

continuedfrom page 1 
gasoline and a rag) ' that were fight in the alleys and the streets. Ifit dropped on rival gangs. wasn't negotiated, we didn't have He says three events -including 
much choice with what we fought the death of a friend in an accident with -switchblades, your hands, when they were running from a baseball bats. There were also these store after planning to "permanently 
garrison belts-old Army belts that borrow" a gift for the friend's mot-
swung those it did some severe his life. damage." The second incident came after a 
The gang fights have left Ungerer group ofrival gang members starting with scars from about 14 knife cuts shooting-at them with zip guns or stab wounds, he says -including (homemade .22 caliber pistols), Un­
one from an ice pick that was gerer said. stopped by his rib. He tells ofchasing one ofthe gang 
"I came close to death many members. times," said Ungerer, recalling that "He knew· I was going to catch fights he negotiated often included him so he ran up these steps, turned using sophisticated weapons such as around and pulled a zip gun on me. It misfired, and pulled my switchblade out. I was going after him. He cocked the zip gun again and fired -I was only I 0 feet from him, but it missed. I grabbed him, but rather that using my knife, I beat him -severely. 
Sign-ups for  
Sophomore LiteraryFestival  
beingtaken at Student Union Office, 2nd floor LaFortune. Otairman &Executive Committee All Positions Open Sign -ups March 30-April 2  

"I left him semi-conscious on the steps. (walked away just shaking. It just shook me up." 
The final incident came after members of the gang roughed up a member ofa Presbyterian group in a Brooklyn park. 
'"He got up and started to preach. For some reason his voice carried over our noise to my ears," said Un­gerer. "The essence of what he said was that no matter what cir­cumstances we find ourselves in, God loves us and is willing to forgive our sins." 
The finding of the Bible followed and life soon changed as Ungerer learned to read and write at the Nor­theastern Bible lnsitute in New Jer­sey. He had been sent there by members ofthe Presbyterian church 
the same church he had abandoned earlier after the remarks about his family. Additional studies followed and he now is a candidate for a Doctor of Ministries Degree from Princeton University in New Jersey. 
Previously he served as a student minister in the Brooklyn church that had hurt his family earlier and arrived at hi~ present position on March I, I917_ 
SMUDGE byTheoRockies 
CLUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS April is the time to re-regitser your group for Unlvetaity recognition and its ensuing ptlvileges. Forms are a vQIIQblein Student Rctivitiea-Offic.-. --·,=~:_ By Aprll30,you must complete: 
1. New registration form 
2. Financial statement (81-82 school year) 
3. Report or statement of activities for 81 -82 school year. 
The above are pre-requisites for funding In Sepwmber, use of facilities, and-eligibility for fund-raising v•ntur•s, including football concession stands and the movie lottery. 
DEADLINE TO RE-REGISTER IS APRIL 30. 

The Observer Thursday, April 1, 1982 -page 5 
'Great difficulties' 

Reagan fears ElSalvador results 
WASHINGTON (AP)-President have been instituted ... " U.S. military foces. Reagan said last night that "it would Reagan then said all Americans But he said the administration give us great difficulties" if a new should be inspired at the way the "can't accept In the defense field 
right-wing government took over in people of El Salvador turned out to some kind of reduction that would El Salvador and turned away from so­vote in the face of threats and set us back" in strengthening cial reform. But he declined to say violence stemming from the conflict American weapons and forces. what he would do about it. between leftist guerrillas and the 
. At his first prime-time White U.S.-backed government. 
1 I am listening, andI'm not inflexible . ..' Anderson 
House news conference, Reagan put Concerning his budget faceoff 
challenges
the emphasis instead on the turnout ·with Congress, Reagan said he is not in EI Salvador's national elections on inflexible "great stone face" on
an Sunday. The divided outcome ofthat his high-deficit feder,d budget, and is balloting has raised the prospect ofa willing listen proposals for women
to to right-wing coalition that might 
compromise. 

By FRANCES NOLAN 
repudiate the policies of President 
He said it is possible that some 

News Staff
Jose Napoleon Duarte. 
reductions in the defense budget Speaking to an all-female audience"We're watching this very careful­could be achieved without last night, Bette Anderson, the firstly," Reagan said. "It would give us endangering U.S. security, but he of­woman to be named Undersecretary

great difficulties if the government fered no specific compromise along ofthe Treasury under the Carter Ad­
turned away from the reforms that those lines. 
ministration, stressed the social im­The president's 1983 budget plan portance of women workinghas drawn congressional complaints together.
over a deficit now estimated at S96 Anderson was the fourth of thebillion. Reagan said, "I am listening, "~omen's Opportunity Week"and I'm not inflexible and remaining speakers at Saint Mary's. 

a great stone face."

Duarte struggles to retain power 
"The greatest problem I haveHe said one of the worst signals faced working from the bottom tothe administration could send the top has not been with the maleSAN SALVADOR, El Salvador (AP) stituent assembly elections, accord­In a letter to the junta made public would be "an outright retreat" from -it has been with the female."
-PresidentJose Napoleon Duarte's ing to incomplete unofficial returns. in Washington on Wednesday, Presi­major facets of his tax cuts and Anderson stated that it is very im­
Christian Democrat party, strug­Leftists boycotted Sunday's dent Reagan said the large voter tur­spending curbs. 
portant for women to be supportiveelection, calling it a farce en­nout in the elections showed
gling to keep a share of power in "You don't increase taxes in a of each other and to have mentors. 
war-torn El Salvador, told five gineered by the Reagan administra­Salvadorans "clearly repudiated recession," Reagan said. Mentors help bring people along,
rightist parties yesterday they tion, and guerrillas tried to disrupt violence and voiced their commit­He also said the most important are supportive, and give honest feed­
the voting with concerted a t ttacks ment to a democratic future."
cnnnot form a viable government thing that can be done to help back, according to Anderson.
without the Christian Democrats. here and in other cities. An es­U.S. officials here and in Washing­people suffering due to the By accepting their gender, assess­Incomplete returns from Sunday's timated :B,OOO people have been ton have said the administration will economic slump is to continue the ing their strengths and weaknesses,election showed that a rightist coali­killed so far in the Salvadoran civil work with whatever group comes to drive to reduce federal spending. 
having goals, and having a well­
tion could win 36 of the 60 seats in · war. power but that support for U.S. aid Reagan said there are "possibly balanced life style, women canthe constituent assembly and that However, voters went to the polls would be more difficult in Congress some areas" in which defense spend­achieve anything they want to,Duarte's centrist party would hold Sunday in unexpectedly high num­for a rightist government in El Sal­ing could be curbed without according to Anderson. "Strategy is 
24. bers, often casting ballots within ear­vador. undermining the effort to rebuild not an ugly word -use it," said An­
shot ofgunfights. derson. The most attention, Ander­"We arc the first politkal force in 
The latest, still incomplete ballot son felt, should be given to theEl Salvador and it has been shown 
count showed a turnout of almost things one feels are the most impor­that a Christian Democratic 1.2 million in a country of 4.8 mil­presence is an indispensable ele­
Plane crash blamed 
tant.
lion people. Anderson stressed the fact thatment in the solution ofthc country's 
The latest tally of 3,900 out of business, by necessity, must alter itsproblems," the party said in a two­4,560 ballot boxes showed the 
on shockabsorber
page advertisement that appeared in opinions of women. "The business
Christian Democrats leading with 429,247 votes or 40.7 percent. HAMPTON, Va. (AP)-Ajammed was happening' until too late and community is still overlooking anlocal newspapers. 
"The Salvadoran people has voted untapped resource -women," she
Cashiered Maj. Roberto shock absorber was blamed yester­followed Lowry's plane into the
massively against violence and in d' Aubuisson's ultra-rightist ARENA day for a chain-reaction crash which ground, the general said. said.
tavor of democracy, reforms and had 306,662 votes or 29.1 percent killed the pilots of four Air Force The accident occurred Jan. 18 as Anderson admitted that many
peace, granting a mandate to the and a possible 19 seats, and National Thunderbird jets in January. tht~"precision flight team, flying T-38 gains have been made for women in(party) to continue direction of the Conciliation, which ruled this The problem in the lead plane was Talon jets, practiced at Indian the past years, but that many more
process." The advertisement appeared as country from 1961 until a coup put not apparent to the pilot, Maj. Nor­Springs auxiliary airfield, 40 miles need to be made, one of them a new the junta in power in 1979, 193,582 man Lowry Ill, until he tried to pull from Nellis Air Force Base near Las social concept ofwhat a woman is.
leaders of the rightist parties were talking about forming a coalition to or !8.4 percent and a possible 14 from the backwards loop, Gen. W.L. Vegas, Nev. In the working world, one of the 
"The in first things women will find is that
seats. Creech, commander of the Tactical leader no way con­news 
oust the Christian Democrats from tributed to this accident," Creech performance and not status is impor­
power, which they currently share Democratic Action may get two Air Command, told a con­with the military in the junta that has seats, Popular Salvadoran Party one, ference at Langley Air Force Base said. tant, said Anderson. 
been ruling the country for the past and Popular Orientation none. here. Lowry had 3,326 flight hours and According to Anderson, constant 
The assembly is to name a new in­The other three pilots, flying in 265 combat missions, as well as 97 re-evaluation and re-training must
29 months. 
terim president and government close formation and keying on acrobatic sorties with the Thunder­be considered for_a successful life.
The Christian Democrats got a and write a constiution. Lowry's aircraft, did not realize what birds, including 513 loops. 
She stated that change is a naturalplurality of votes in Sunday's con-
The front halfofthe loop was per­part of life and that we should not fect, Creech said, but on the back feel guilty about changing. .side Lowry could not move his In the working world, inconsis­horizontal stabilizers to the proper tencies will be found, she said. An­
angle because the stabilizers' load derson said, "don't put all your relief cylinder -basically a shock pennies in one basket -it just won't absorber -was jammed. work." 
It was unknown exactly what Anderson challenged all women jammed the · equipment, Creech to be good to themselves, work hard said. It could have been a rivet, bolt to achieve their goals, and make sure or washer that came loose during that they have helped fellow women flight. along the way. 
Can't sleep Qt night? mQke JJinsteadl 
The Observer 
is looking for assertive, eager to learn and fun persons (experience not essential) wOrk late-night production. will train you to become DESIGN ASSIST ANT, even DESIGN EDffOR! 
SO Ifyou're game, 
II~

l~ -CQII II~::!~ ~t 239-7471

---~ 
-
-

Business & Technology_rh_ursd_ar,A_pril_I,19_s2_pag;;,.,__e6 
. ,· Economic Update 
New manufactured goods orders rose by 
nine-tenths of 1 percent in February, to a seasonally adjusted $158.59 billion, the first gain since November, the Commerce Department reported today. However, the report noted that nearly all of the growth was concentrated in orders for military hardware rather than being scattered among various industries. Robert Ortner, the department's chief economist, said that "the economy still looks weak," and added that "the statistics were not very excit­ing or strongly encouraging that the recession is over." The report also said that the total shipments ofmanufactured goods increased in February -for the first time since last June. The shipment gain was 
l.7 percent, to an adjusted S159. 7 billion. The department also reported that manufacturers' inventories grew by two-tenth5 of 1 percent in February after declining for two months. -AP 
Late paymentson mortgage loans rose to a 17 year high last month as recession and high interest rates continued to squeeze household budgets, a savings and loan industry group said in a report released Tuesday. During February, payments on 1.21 percent ofthe mortgages held by savings and loan associations were delinquent by at least 60 days, compared with 1.1 7 percent in January and .94 percent in February, 1981, according to the United States League of Savings Associations. But the league said that while delinquencies .continued to rise last month, the rate ofincrease slowed. -AP 
Treasury Secretary Donald Regan, in an­
other scaling down of the Administration's economic forecasts, said today that in both the second quarter and the second halfofthe year the economy would be weaker than fore.cast just two months ago. The Secretary, testifying before the House Banking Committee, indi­cated that there may be ao significant recovery until summer. The latest projection, especially for the second quarter, WI!S in sharp con­trast to what Mr. Regan had said in early February, when he predicted that the economy "will come roaring back in late spring." 
-AP 

Karen N. Horn, treasurer of Bell Telephone Co. of Pennsylvania, was named president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, the bank's chairman announced Monday. She becomes the first woman to be president of a Federal Reserve bank, Marty Abrams, Federal Reserve spokesman, said. She succeeds Willis J. Winn, 65, who is retiring after more than 10 years as president. Horn's appointment was approved by the directors ofthe Cleveland bank and by the board ofgovernors ofthe .ederal Reserve system in Washington. -AP 
' Wall Street Update 
The stock marketclosed out an uninspired first quar­ter of 1982 with a mixed showing Wednesday. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials dropped 1.72 to 822.77, leaving the average with a net loss of 52.23 points for the first three months of the year. The day's volume on the New York Stock Exchange totaled 
43.30 million shares, against 43.90 million Tuesday. The NYSE said March was the busiest trading month in its history, with daily volume averaging 55.23 million shares. The previous record of 
54.90 million was set last November. Gainers and losers were about evenly balanced in the over-all tally on the Big Board. 
Applications for 1982-33 
~lEm®rn rn4\ffi 
BARTENDERSwill be available Wed. 3/31, Thurs. 4/1, and Fri. 4/2 in the Student Activities Office, first floor, LaFortune. 
Must be returned by 5:00PM Fri. 4/2. 
********************************* * Sc.t.11aJ()-1aJ() * 

* ~t:Wfl()Uf§* 
UnitedBeverage Co. 
(Next topolice station on Sample) 

25th anniversary meeting of the European Economic Community at Brussels he(d this week. 
(AP LASEKPHOTO) 
Failures continue 
President's report relates decline 
provided by businesses employing

By JOHN CUNNIFF novations per employee as do com­fewer than 500 employees. 
panies with 500 or more workers. AP Business Analyst Innovation, of course, is the source
As the report relates, that study showed "80 percent of new jobs 

ofproductivity gains. were provided by firms having 100 
It's an old story. Small-business The first annual President's report employees or less," and "almost 66 people, who contribute so much on small business and competition is percent ... by businesses with fewer and who so often are overlooked,out, and for the most part it doesn't than 20 employees." 

are accustomed to but hardlv make very pleasant reading. In 1976, National Science Founda­
satisfied with the situation, so neatly"The roots of the American tion research showed small business 
expressed in the report's summary. 
economy are to be found in the his­to be a more prolific source of in­Small business survival, it seems, 
tory ofsmall business," according to novations per research and devlop­is a matter of living by wits and in­
the report, but that history has been ment dollar than medium or large genuity, talents with which small 
one of decline for a century. Since business. 
business seems abundantlythe 1960s its share of total output And now, the report claims, small 
endowed, but which are lacking in has been under 50 percent and fal­business produces twice as many in-
some big but anemic corporations.
ling It's 38 percent now. 
The report, "The State of Small Business," mandated by Public Law 96-302, shows that in the 1974­
Center investigates 
1976 recession, small-business 
profits fell faster and further than in 
big companies. 
waste control
When the economy began moving out ofthe pits in early 1976, profits rose more slowly in small By TOM SHAUGHNESSY the research into three categories: companies than in large, the report StaffReporter Opportunities and methods for the states. But for many small companies recycling, recovery, and reuse ofby­there was no recovery. They fail~d. products of industrial processes 
Failures again are common, and In 1980 the Environmental now ending up as wastes; modifica­small business is taking the brunt of Protection Agency established the tion of manufacturing processes so them. The number reported by Dun University ofNotre Dame and the Il­that wastes are reduced or 
& Bradstreet rose 42 percent be­linois Institute of Technology's eliminated in the indll5trial process tween 1980 and 1981, with small Pritzker Department of Environ­itself; and the development of'clean' business accounting for the major mental Engineering as one of eight manufacturing technologies that do portion. "centers of excellence," each study­not produce pollutants." 
"The larger the firm -the better ing a particular area of industrial Research is guided by "a nine­chance it has ofsurviving," states the waste management, member external Scientific Ad­summary accompanying the report. The Center was given an initial visory Committee" which provides 
"A firm with 21-50 employees has a three-year grant of 51.5 million for "advice and consultation to the Cen­54 percent chance of surviving four research in the field of industrial ter Director and Policy Board on years. A firm of under 20 employees waste management. The Center is Center programs." The members of has a 3 7 percent chance ofsurviving presently embarking on its second the Committee "also review four years." year ofstudy. proposals and recommend future 
Not all the recession impact is According to Dr. Thomas Theis, areas of emphasis." In addition, necessarily negative. Small business Associate Professor of Civil there is a national Policy Board does a better job ofkeeping workers Engineering and Notre Dame's which establishes "research during recession and its innovation Campus Program Manager, the aim priorities" and "general research allows it to react better to many of the program is "basic research, as direction" for the Center. 
other problems too. opposed to highly applied Dr. Theis stated that, while he did 
The advantages of small business research." The focus ofthe research, not know if President Reagan's haven't been greatly appreciated by said Theis, is to discover "the fun­budget cuts would affect the money the public until the past few years, damental mechanisms underlying allotted for this second year of when self-survival compelled small the problems" rather than to design research, he anticipates that the 
business to organize into groups and specific waste management systems. guaranteed Sl.5 million grant will 
blow its own horn. "Most of the research is done in the be honored. 
Studies at the Massachusetts ln­lab and on the computer." Expressing his confidence, Dr. 
~!!tutc of Technology showed that The pamphlet circulated by the Theis said, "There are some good between 1969 and 1976 more than University ofNotre Dame and the Il­people (in the program), and
t::t~t?.:~ ()~~ ()f!t:~§ ·1 
86 percent of new jobs were linois Institute of Technology p!.!!5 valuable ideas will come out ofit." 
***~!;~************************ 

Don't pick the squash 
"You are such a smerd." 

She was young to be calling me such a thing. I am sure she didn't know what she said. A little girl can hardly understand the cor1cept of smerd, nor can any child. Smerd never was a child; be btUI a different name then... john or something. Things went wrong for him then, but then it didn't matter... 
Who is Smerd? I met him once, you know. 
He was waiting for a bus. I was waiting for the same bus. I had a dol­lar blll, but no change. He had no money at all. The short, large nosed character approached me, asking to borrow twenty cents. It was then I discovered my single dollar bill and my no change. Not having "correct change only", we had to ride to the mall together, my new 'debtor­friend' and I, in a pair offirst c4,tss bus seats that cost me fifty cents each; only we had to stand, as two large human beings of a mean persuasion had chosen to sit their twenty-five cent bodies in our fifty cent seats. 
As we stood on the bus, we each felt that a conversation was re­quired. He chose to break the thin ice. 
"I'm short, you know." 

This was hard not to notice. He would have looked up to my tie clip ifl had one. 
"Oh really? I hadn't noticed." 
"Weill am," he sighed. 

He also had a huge nose and a small pot belly. His eyes drooped, his fingers were stubby, and to tell the truth, until he had asked for the twenty cents, I had believed him to be a squash growing lazily by that bus stop. 
"Aren't you going to get up?" 

She wanted me to get up, smerd though I was. Her 65 pounds tugged at my 165; she was trying to help me up. People rarely helped Smerd. He told me that. (He has since repaid his debt so that now be is simply friend' to me.) The girl was helping me, so I decided to help her help myself.. 
!laving taken the initiative, the 

bulbous character relaxed, and now 
it was my turn to chip at the ice. He 
had sweated out a confession of the 
obvious (that he was short); I 
decided to do the same. I saw that 
we were nearing the mall. 
"Looks like we're almost there." 
"Yes," he replied. 
"I'm going window shopping. 

How about you?" 
"Me too. Can I go with you?" 

Strange, I thought, that he should ask to go along with me. Why not ask me to go with him? A chance of friendship was a very important thing. He would not want to push himself; he had learned the lesson of the leech. Few people want a smerd clinging to them creating a new responsibility of being an 'only friend'. I thought it sad that he found this caution necessary in such a simple matter as window shopping. 
"Sure. We could shop together," I said. 
"Do you like going to the pet store?" he asked. "Some people don't like to because of the smell. 
"I never miss going," I said, ''I'm a tropical fish enthusiast." "I like the birds, myself;" said Smerd, "I have a pet finch named 
Bill." 
"Here, this popped out." 

She handed me the left lens that was always falling out of my glasses. Her sharp eyes bad spotted it on the snow where I am sure I couldn't have seen the clear glass./ fumbled with the frames, stilt somewhat embarassed, fitting the tens back into place. I bad snow all over me. She started laughing 
Smerd showed me his pet finch named Bill, once. Apparently it had been shot with a wrist sling-shot by a student, and Smerd had seen the bird tall to the ground from the tree. The pellet had neatly clipped a bone which left the bird without a third of its wing; he lay on the ground in shock. Smerd took the finch home and nursed it back to health. In doing so he gained a devoted friend. Bill is a prankster, though; he climbs up on Smerd's nose and wakes him up in the morning. He also likes to cat Smerd' s toothpaste (which Smerd lost the cap to months ago.) Bill is weird for a finch, and I suppose Smcrd is weird for a person. They go well together. Smerd is easy to laugh at, but ifyou think twice, he is easy to like. 
So ifyou see Smerd... and you will, 
I think, for a talking squash with 
droopy eyes is difficult to miss... so 
when you see him, laugh only be­

cause you can see him in you. After 
all, we are all smerds inside 
sometimes. 
"Don't you know you shouldn't walk with you.r hands in your pockets during winter?" She giggled. 
I'm such a smerd. 

AdrycleanandaPress 
The rationale behind President Rollo Ragon's economic strategy, which strips funds from educational programs and gluts the defense budget was revealed yesterday in startling displays at Notre Dame and other strategically placed campuses across the country. 
At approximately 6:45:13 a.m. yesterday, the SNAFUS (Students Na­tional Armed Forces of the United States) went into action in a nationwide exercise to demonstrate the combat-ready condition ofwhat. is now known to be the largest and most technically advanced branch ofour or any other army. 
Startling admissions confirmed that most ofthe personnel now man­ning the country's major institutions ofhigher learning are actually highly trained crack troops deployed throughout the nation and main­tained by the offices of the CIA and Kenner Toys. 
Observers of yesterday's early morning maneuvers saw the Notre Dame campus in an entirely new light. The famed "golden dome" was revealed to be in reality a reusable missile silo, housing one of the world's most powerful ballisitc missiles, the Ave Maria III, capable of dumping heavy guilt trips of three megatons and powered by a new liq· uid fuel, loco parentis benzoate. The renowned third floor of the Memorial Library flashed back into existence to act as a hangar for the three tlights of F-.1 5 fighters stored there. The reason for the construc­tion ofa new driveway behind Grace Hall was revealed when the F-.1 S's were seen landing there after the · maneuvers were complete. 
As the exercise began, President Ragon appeared on a TV broadcast available only to remote parts of Somalia, and said,"See, you ninnys­I'm not taking money away from the schools, I'm just channeling it in a different way." Asked if it was wise to have tipped his hand so early, Ragon replied, "Well, I was going to wait for a war or something, but I guess we. got kind ofcrossed up, and anyway there's not much going on around the Blue House since Nancy stopped ·····ing about the china." 
As the workers in the dining halls scrambled to man their radar sets and targeting computers, an observ­ing ROTC student, asked why he was not a part of the frenetic prepara­tions, he replied "Oh, we're not real­ly military; we just act as a front and cover for the workers in the dining halls when they're on duty." 
Defense Secretary Casper the 
The ultimate in rock trivia 
Tim Burr 
!'or the emertainment of all you rock tims, The Absurder rresents this rock trivia quiz. This week's quiz will deal with some famous (and not-so-tiunous) rocks. Identify each. 
I. What igneous rock results when surface lava hardens? It is also used in Lava soap. 
2. 
According to many theorists, tht· continents on Earth do not "drift" but actually "tloat" on top ofa layt·r of heavier rock. What kind of rock is this? 

3. 
The hardest naturally-f(.>rming "rock" known, diamond, is directly derived from what element? 


'i. What are the protrusions which sometime~ stick up from the tloor of a cave called? 
S. What sedimentary rock is con-sidered an excellent future source of , 
crude oil -if the oil can be economically extracted from it? 
6. 
When a student of this univer­sity translated his school's nickname into a combination of Greek and Latin, part of the name stuck and became his school's new nickname. Identify this school, its old nickname (which is rock-related), and its cur­rent nickname. 

7. 
What is the real name of "fool's gold?" 


H. One ofthe world's most famous rocks, the Rock of Gibraltar, is owned by what nation? 
9. In last year's memorable joke campaign for Notre Dame student body president/vice president, which ended up receiving 543 votes and winning Grace Hall, who was Chuck Mason's running mate? 

10. What material found at the bottom of the campus lakes was used extensively as a building material in the early days of Notre Dame? 
The answers to the Absurder rock trivia quiz can be found in the clas­sified section. Since The Absurder has no classified section, l would suggest checking the classified sec­tion of its sister scandal sheet, The Obsen'er. After checking your answers, usc this scale to determine your rock proficiency. 
9-10 correct: a diamond in the rough 
6-8 correct: rockin' easy 
3·5 correct: on a rocky road 
1-2 correct: you arc probably 
stoned 0 correct: you have rocks in your head 
Friendly Ghost called the day a huge success. "In several cases we came very close to hitting some targets, and the concessions sales were great," he remarked. There were several remarkable accomplish­ments throughout the day: the first launching of an Ave Maria Ill was a hit -the missile made a stop in Vienna and then leveled a Swiss chocolate factory, and Harvard and Yale reduced each other to glowing heaps of crew shells and mutated al­

ligators; but perhaps the most im­pressive accomplishment of the day was the sinking ofa $1.8 billion sub· marine offthe coast ofL.A. by a corps of U.S.C. engineering students. For· tunately, most of the Trojans escaped to the surface and were rescued by Hawaiians in canoes. 
Northwestern University also contributed to the effort by demolishing a small corn crib in Keokuk, Iowa. 
P.O.BoxP.U. Sex andthe single domer 
DearEditor: 
Off-Campus crime has been a problem for Notre Dame students since we first started moving off in the late '60s. But recently, I encoun­tered a situation that has received little attention in discussions about OC crime. I would like my fellow OC residents to beware and avert my dilemma. 
For protection, my father gave me his german shephard dog. He was a wonderful watch dog. The evening my stereo and TV were ripped off, he watched. 
But the crux ofmy problem lies in the name I gave this dok Most people name their dogs "Rover" or "Spot;" Jcall mine "Sex." This turned out to be a very embarrassing name. One night I took Sex for a walk and he ran away. I spent hours looking for her. One of South Bend's finest · came over to me and asked, "Wh;t are you doing behind Corby's at four o'clock in the morning?" l told him I was looking for Sex. My case comes up Tuesday. 
One day I went to.security to get a dog license and told the clerk that I would like to have a license for Sex. He said, "I would like to have one too." Then I said, "But this is a dog," and he said he didn't care how she looked. "You don't understand," I pleaded. "I've had Sex since I got to Notre Dame," and he asked if Dean Roemer knew about it. 

I explained that when my parents separated, they went to court to fight for the custody ofthe dog. Dad said, "Your honor, I had Sex before I was married," and the judge said, "Me too." Dad told him that after he was married, Sex left him, and the judge said, "Me too." Dad told him that he once had Sex on T.V., and the judge called him a show-off. He ex­plained that it was a contest, and his honor told him he should have sold 
tickets. 
Dad also tolu the judge about the 

time he and mom were on their 
honeymoon and took the dog. When 
they checked into the motel he told 
the clerk he wanted a room for him 
and mom, and a separate room for 
Sex. The clerk said "Every room in 
the motel is for sex." Dad explained 
that Sex kept him awake at night, and 
the clerk said, "Me too." 
l give up. 
Perplexed Domer 


April Fools Day -page 45 
By NCAA 
Faust arrested and jailed 
since Dan Devine left," Phelps said. Sports Hack remain anonymous, told The Absur­
By'SCOOP' DeGARDNER One NCAA official who asked to 
"So I have no ideawhat is going on as der that Faust had been arrested on 
far as recruiting is concerned. Officials of the NCAA confirmed charges of supplying prospective 
"If the NCAA's story is true, however, I support the action
yesterday that Notre Dame football high school seniors with prayer they've taken. College coaches who
Coach Gerry Faust has been found in books, rosaries and Holy Water as cheat are dangerous, and should be
violation ofrecruiting rules. inducement to attend Notre Dame. locked up where they can't get at
Foregoing the usual procedure, In addition, the source said, Faust our children. I just hope Gerry is
which would call for probation for reportedly offered autographed locked away for a long time, so he
the schooL the NCAA had Faust ar­pictures and relics to nuns, in the can think about what he has done."
rested and confined to the Indiana hopes they would convince players Faust was hired after the 1980
State Penitentiary in Michigan City. at their high schools to attend the season, after a successful high school
"I can't believe it," Faust told University. coaching career. While at Moeller
reporters as he was taken away. "The NCAA cannot tolerate High School in Cincinatti, however,
"One bad season, a few dollars here blatant violations such as these," an allegations as to Faust's recruiting
and there, and I'm in the slammer. official NCAA spokesman said. practices were common.
"I guess college football is a lot dif­"We're cracking down lately, and it's Notre Dame's president, Fr.
ferent from high school." disgusting to see just how lightly the Theodore Hesburgh, was reached in
Fr. Edmund Joyce, the Executive big programs like UCLA basketball the South Bronx, where he is
Vice-President of the University, and Notre Dame football take the overseeing elections in that war­
denied ever having met Faust, and rules." 
torn region.
claimed he was not in any way in­Notre Dame's basketball coach, "I haven't been to a football game
volved with the violations. Digger Phelps, who recently blasted since Dan Devine left," Hesburgh
"I've talked to the guy on the his colleagues for violations similar said. "So I have no idea what is going
phone a couple times," Fr. Joyce to those for which Faust was incar­Dame Football Coach Gerry Faust is led into the Jn.~ra!na said. "But I haven't been to a football cerated, issued a statement from his 
on as far as recruiting is concerned. "I do feel strongly, however, that
State Penitentiary by an unknown official ofthe NC4A 's Enforce­game since Dan Devine left -so I official residence at Castel Gandalfo, mentDivision afterhis arrest yesterday. "I'll probably be in People have no idea what is going on as far just outside Rome. 
terrorists of Faust's kind are a menace to the entire world. Cat­
magazine again," the smiling coach quipped. ( A&P Photo) as recruiting is concerned." "I haven't been to a football game holics everywhere deplore this type ofreckless disregard for the law. "I have written to the leaders ofall
Cardinals oust]PII, name Digger 
the world powers, and asked them to unitarily condemn Faust's ac­tions." Officials of the Michigan
By MICK SHORTMAN 
-at least not during the games." 
City prison report that special
Sports Shill 
Vatican observers are at a loss to security precautions have beenIn a move that stunned hundreds predict what policies Adrian will set taken to protect the new prisoner.
of millions of Catholics around the during his reign. They expressed to­
SeeJAIL, page 13

world, the Sacred College of Car­tal surprise at the events of the past dinals yesterday demanded the few days. resignation of PopeJohn Paul II, and "I had an idea something was up," 
--11(~
, elected Notre Dame Basketball said Fr. Richard McBrien, chairman 
Deod Smith ~
Y(i/.:'· 
....., Coach Digger Phelps Supreme Pon­of Notre Dame's theology depart­
( \ )~

tiff ment and part-time TV personality. 
The unprecedented action came "Digger spent a great deal of time after Phelps aroused controversy in withJohn Paul when he was in Rome Irish Item the United States with "holier-than­two weeks ago. He followed him thou" comments about college around, taking pictures and jotting 
FOURTH AND LONG -Sources recruiting. The Cardinals were down notes. 
close to President Ronald Reagan reportedly so impressed by Phelps's "I thought maybe he was just here 
have reported that Defense honesty, that they called an emer­to look at the Swiss Guard. After all, 
Secretary Casper Weinberger may gency conclave. it is time for the team to get new uni­
soon be relieved of his duties and Phelps, who was in Rome im­forms." 
that the President is seriously mediately before travelling to New Thousands of people gathered in 
considering ex-Notre Dame football Orleans and his appointment with St. Peter's Square for a glimpse ofthe 
coach Dan Devine as a likely succes­destiny, chose the name Adrian V. new Pontiff late yesterday after­sor. "I thought about becoming Or­noon. Adrian greeted them, and 
"Notre Dame's teams have always lando I, but decided against it," His spoke for 20 minutes on the evils of 
been known for their great Holiness said. paying off high school athletes. defenses," remarked Reagan. Asked what would become of his "Cheating in college sports is a 
"After watching a lot of Dan's team, Adrian said, "Hell, Pax is an real problem," Adrian said, "and it's game films, I really think that he can 
•. Academic All-American, he should not going to get any better until the maximize our goal of a strong na­
be able to take care of the coaching heads of the world's religions get to­tional defense." 
job. I never really did much anyway gether to stop it." 
Reached by phone in Arizona where he serves as the president of the Arizona State Booster Club, Devine was enthused about the idea. 
"My job here is very time­consuming and I would really like to resign to spend more time with my family," remarked Devine. "Taking
Pope Adrian V, the former Richard Phelps ofSouth Bend, Ind., 
the job of Secretary of Defense
addresses the multitudes in St. Peter's square yesterday (lower would finally allow me to do that."
photo). An Italian amateur photographer caught a glimpse of 
Yet Devine does not believe he
Phelps with hispredecessor earlier in the week (top photo). 
will sever ties with his fellow Sun 
Devil boosters. "Even if I move to Washington, I 
am sure a lot of the boosters will come over to the White House for dinner," Devine added. "And I know 
Sports Brie s 
The ChicagoWhite SoXhave announced plans to that my successor wll be calling me move Comiskey Park to Cabrini Green. Club spokesman Leroy often and asking for advice."
Brown indicated that the move would be the first of its kind in Asked to reveal his plans forprofessional sports. "I don't think a stadium has ever been motivating the country's lethargictransported to the ghetto before," Brown said. "But it was just a bad, armed forces, Devine said, "Gee, Ibad situation near the Dan Ryan." The move is in keeping with the suppose brand new green uniforms new image the team is trying to portray. Club owner Sammy Davis, wouldn't work since they alreadyJr. announced recently that the Sox will be wearing leather jackets have those. Maybe we can paint all ofand jeans instead ofreal uniforms during the comingseason. -A&P 
the military helmets gold or some­thing."
Bruce Springsteenhas nothing to do with sports, but we knew you'd read this ifyou saw his name. This makes two years in a row we've suckered you in with the same joke. -The Absurder 
INSIDE:
ND /SMC teams andclubsall will meet tonight in 
LaFortune's Little Theatre at 7 p.m. Team members are reminded to bring money forT-shirts. Plans for the summer trip will be discussed. 
Ara Returns p. 7 
Attendance is mandatory. For more information, contact Muffy at
Indiana State University defensive back Lester 
Byrd(22) basa strongboldon NewMexico State's 
284-4182 or Butch at 7777. -The Absurder
Goingfor 
Randy Swain during first quarter action last 
MISL Standings
Napoleon Duartealso has nothing to do with sports.
night in Las Cruces at Aggie Memorial Stadium. 
Gotcha twice. Don't tell uswe don't know how to get readers. -The Absurder 
the ball? (APLaserpboto) 

~~~============================== 
T0 d~Xil======~=dw=s=·~==·=~=~"='[J=ir=j=Q=.~=.,=A=p=ril=Foo=ls=o=ay=-p=ag=e 
Simolarity 
Ritger and Riese 
~ w~ vee. 11+1s e&O~IN. (:£( ~ "MitJf!.lllo 






We're looking for a few good gringos. •• 
the will of your own country. 
This is your chance to show your displeasure with the way Ronald Reagan is running WhiteHouse 
TH FEW, HE PROUD THE SALVADORAN GUERILLAS 
Wrong Side of Bed 
The Absurder clock hali come around full swing again, and it's time to look back and get a few things off our chest that we've been letting stew. 
All this fuss over girlbedding Anhowser Bush, Inc. be­cause the corporation's marketing practices allegedly contribute to alcoholism among ghetto residents is for the birds. All scientific evidence and informed opinion to the contrary, I know I am right about this. Anhowser Bush makes damn fine sauce, and I for one have sampltd the nectar many times and never suffered the least dis­comfort ofthe head. 
The fight on this issue is. indic~ve ofthe gener_allack of comic sentiment--stunni~y apparent m the Notred (sic) Dame ~dent body. Where are our priorities if an issue such as this -the plight of some poor minorities too stupid to kn~ }OU can't drink rotgut like water without risking poisoning -takes precedence over real concerns. In these days ofbillion­dollar defense budgets and nuclear escalation, we don't have time to worry about the quality oflife for a handful of no-minds we'll never even see. Impending nuclear eruption is far more humorous than all this gushing over Anhowser Bush. And we've got real problems right here in our own back yard. University President 
Smerd Ferd has turned a deaf 
nose to repeated student at­
tempts to improve the 
miserable social life here ­
now that's an issue that war­
rants comic relief. 
One more thrust on An­bowser Bush: Absurder editor John Hasmyjob's 
claim that Absurder 

to be humorless. 
coverage of the girlbed was hilarious is absolutely un­funny. To think that The Ab­surder could do anything truly funny without my aid is 
idiocy, and not humorous. The Absurder has patted it· self on the back too many times this year and left me 


alone, and incorrectly so. Though I've taken up space every once in while, I've had no sexual function at 
' 

The Absurder for some time, so I feel I can evaluate it objectionably without trying hard. The upshot of it all is, in short, that The Absurder needs help, for it is on the verge of collapsing under the weight of its self­importance. 
All ofthe light-heartedness has gone out ofwhat once was a fine group of standup comics. The Absurder is completely without good humor, and l scream at the apparent lack ofconcern over this dip in quality. 
This year's editor is the third in a row coming from the Holy Crossroads seminary, and the paper's salvation department. There is nothing inherently wrong with salvation, as long as someone in charge knows the value of a good backstab. The Crossroads group is notorious for its somber emphasis on human concerns, such a! trying to get the paper finished at a decent hour so tha the night staff can get to bed early, thus making it easie · for staffers to fulfill their responsibilities as students. 
But such concerns have cost in terms of gaiety -by getting the night staff in early and keeping Anhowser 
-~~-=Ihe=A.bstuder 
Design Editor .............. Uncle Ryan Remus DesignAssistants................Suzanne Lapin Tim Burr Typesetter .......................... Bruce Nietzsche 
News Editor ........................... johnny Sex Sports Layout...................... Bouncing Balls Sports Copy Editor ................. Skimpy Orts. ND Day Editor........................................ Bilfy 
.\MC Day Editor.................................... Bulfy Proofreader ............................... Ray Charles Ad Design ........................... Burntout Torch Photographer......... ........johnny Longlens Guest Appearances ...... Where are my big feet? Two weU-hung Klingons AI Haig's wife, T J., Flaming Macor 
Cheryl's legs Tanning buttered N.E.'s and Ted the Wonder Goat 
The Abaurder-(CHAOS 321 123) 1s published once a year 1f we feell1ke it. and there ·s nothong you can do about it. The Abaurder is published by a motley crew chosen from among the n1ght people on the area. Copies may be purchased for small sexual favors 
or lewd public displays. Wnte The Abaurder 1f you can find the address. 
_ The Abeurder is a member of the D1ssoc1ated Press. no starch please. Blow dry. 
::: :: ::: ·~[ :~~ :~~ 
: :; ;~ ;: 


Bush out of the office The Absurder is destroying its comic integrity -it's so humorless now I don't even want to laugh at it any more, and nobody else does, either. I see campus intellectuals and artists not laugh· ing all the time, and it's because ofJohn Hasmyjob and those Holy Crossroads trainees from the salvation department. 
What The Absurder needs is a good, straight man ­say a hermit -from its isolation department. Tbe Ab­surder needs someone who understands burying his head in the sand just for laughs, or closing himself off from those who might have been friends for the sake of a greater cause-
IfThe Absurder is to become funnier, it must follow 
my suggestions and make the entire staffbitter and con­tentious, for only in strife can there be true mirth. As long as these Crossroaders keep showing human con­cern f(>r their employees, and as long a.~ they keep hiring kids who must learn to walk before they can run, The Absurder will continue 
Here's wishing Mike Monk and his staff good humor ...

G\2-.~?ES 
Edttor's note: Because of the abundance of advertis­ing in this Issue, several paragraphs had to be remorlf!d from today's Inside column, in the Inter­ests of money-making. The 

author has registered his displeasure over the move and takes no responsibility for whatever the article may appear to say. 
The opinions contained in the Inside column usual­ly are drug-Induced and should twt be taken serlous~y by self-abusing members of the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's fat farm. The author's drugs, okay, are, like, his own and usually are not shared with other members ofThe Absurder editorial bored, so don't think we all got a rushfrom thees sheet, man. 
AbsurderNose______, 
The Absurder is an annual pubication of1'be Obsen,er published on April Fool's Day tor and about fools. Any resemblance to any fool living or deceased, any of his tomfoolery and anything such a one woultl have said or done if only the idea had been there, is purely foolish. 
TONIGHT 
Campus Porno at its Best 
7:00 
9:00 
11:00 
21 id's required 

Knights of Erectus 

, , .C.S.C: sex -page 47 

VOLS. & NOS. -WHO CAKES~ 

the irrelevant farce for drunken Domers and SMC chicks 
APRIL FOOL'S DAY 
'Kisser' complaints mouthed 
By HAROLD P. KNISS 
News Stiff 
Students of Notre Dame are lick­
ing their lips in anticipation of 
"Kisser", a new An Tostal event in 
which they will be given a chance to 
lick someone else on the lips. 
"Kisser" is the official replacement 
for the dangerous. frightening, and 
morally reprehensible "Mass Assas­
sin" which was played last year; it 
met with an untimely death. 
Just as last year, the Notre Dame 
officials are again up in arms over 
this new An Tostal event. University 
officials mouthed their complaints 
that, unlike most An Tostal events, 
"Kisser" is not in good taste, not 
mature, and not worthwile for 
college students. Dean Rover 
would like "Kisser" to be dis­continued for reasons concerned with safety, maturity, and the general psychology of the game. Dean Rover cited "Kisser" as dan­gerous to the facade of moral in­tegrity that has been erected at Notre Dame. Explaining that Notre Dame has long been an impregnable bastion of sexual purity, Rover com­plained, "Next year they'll want to play 'French Kisser', then 'Heavy Petter', and who knows what after that!" He dramatically proclaimed, "We've got to nip this monster in the bud!" For security reasons, Rover voiced concern about students jum­ping out ofbushes ordark cavernous recesses with moist, glistening lips. Rover further ejaculated that this game could provide a new breeding ground for young Hugh Hefners or Caligulas. 
Generally, Notre Dame students like the new An Tostal game. Many Notre Dame males were pleased to know that St. Mary's students were not permitted to play because, as te head of An Tostal said, "We did not want to give sex-crazed women an excuse for running around in the men's dorms kissing everything that moves." However, a few students did complain about how "Kisser" is being run. One student commented tongue in cheek, "Students are 
drooling over the opportunity to 
swap a little spit." 

Shortly before being hauledofffor terminal megolmania, Alexan­der llaig made a surprise appearance at a basketball game. llaig yelled:"I'm in command of the Dancing Irish!"(Photo by Perry Verti) 
Killer squirrels vow 
to bust the bigtop 
ByJOHNNY MINIMUS 
AgingRodentReporter 

Vowing that today's circus on the South quad would be turned into "a bloody rebuke ofthe imperialist human junta's repression of rodents," the guerilla leader ofthe radical Killer Squirrel Liberation Front (KSLF) ordered his forces to begin what he termed "the final offensive." 
"We will do whatever is necessary to see that the human circus 
turns into a disaster," declared Melvin Chipmunk, underground 
leader of the rebels. The group has been waging a bloody war of 
attrition against Notre Dame students over the past four years be­
cause of conflicts over the collection of nuts by University main­
tenance workers. In the course ofthe fighting, over 75 students have 
been attacked and bitten by squirrels. 
"We wilT bite power lines, polling booths, arms, legs, buses, bur­row under highways, anythtng to intimidate the public from showing up for this capitalist circus," Chipmunk said. 
The warning has campus security officials clearly worried. 
"We've been fighting these little devils now for four years and the damned rodents just won't give up," explained security forces leader Napoleon DuPaurte. "But with just a little more American military aid, we'll be able to crush the KSLF and see that the circus goes on as scheduled. 
"This threat is real," insisted Alexander Keg, secretary of bait, pointing to CIA evidence of a dramatic rabies buildup among the squirrel rebels. This massive influx of rabies being siphoned to the squirrels is definitely a communist plot." 
The circus is scheduled to be held today at lunchtime on the South Quad in front of the South Dining Hall. A large turnout would serve to legitimize the University's efforts to improve social life on campus. The KSLF hopes to keep the turnout low to put pressure on the ruling administration. 
"We've been fighting this struggle against Notre Dame for four years now and we want to end this thing as much as everyone else does -that's why the call is out to all the underground lairs to mobilize and fight to the death in this final offensive." 
NDgrounds keepers 
do a 'bueno'job 
Editor's Note: The following is the first ofa 73-part series examining the crucial role ofthegrounds crew in the Notre Dame community. 
Each spring as Notre Dame awakens from its long winter nap, the campus undergoes a seemingly mystical transformation. As if by magic, the debris of winter is whisked away, to be replaced by bright spring flowers and rolls of fresh green sod. 
It's not really magic, though-the change is the result ofmany hours of 
SMCizods 

Preppie contraceptives come through 
By DICK"La SMIC" VOYEUR 
StuffReporter 
Allegations that a new con­traceptive device had been secretly implanted on the alligators of Saint Mary'sstudents' sweatersas a testing procedure were discussed at the stu­dent government meetinglast night. 
Three Saint Mary's students literally stole the show when they produced evidence that not one Saint Mary's student had been im­pregnated over the winter months. The 358-page report documented the cases, showing the high correla­tion between the sweaters and suc­cessful sexual interludes. 
"I'm appalled, simply appalled," stated student body president Ida Duittoo. Duittoo called for a fact­finding task force to test the claim. All government members volun­teered, with Augusta Hall president Wanna McOrpole saying "It is our duty and privilege to get to the bot­toms on this." 
SMC pre-med expert Patty Mybuns said that this could be true. "Off the top of my head, I feel the alligator could be a viable deter­rent," sfated Mybuns. "With sex so rampant in i:he winter, I don't see that sweater manufacturers have any choice." 
This accusation relates to the recent nationwide scandal concern­ing the Plotted Parenting-designer jean linkup. The jeans, being manufactured to standards set by 

HOCUS 

!OO;W.1.#W#lll'~,;r
~~ocus 
Plotted Parenting, are alleged to be 
so tight that U.S. males have trouble 
removing them from U.S. females. 
Psychologists have said that this 
leads to stress, frustration, and emo­
tional pain. 
Jean manufacturers disagree. Cal­vin Claus makers defend their actions by stating that their com­pany had been founded on the prin­ciples ofpriestJohn Calvin as well as -dugooder Santa Claus, saying that 
"they are the melting pot offashion." Claus also has plans to rerun actress Panty Shields commercials, for fear oflosing the child molester market. 
Banal Bassoon Industries has responded to the accusations by putting feminine hockey stars in their commercials to show the room one has in their jeans. 
"I don't really know what the fuss is over the tight thing, dahling," said Glorious Vanderbelt, jean tycoon. "I wear them all the time. No one ever touches me." 
In other business, resolutions for parietal extensions, 24 hour shuttle service to all Notre Dame dorms on the weekends, and beefed-up gynecological services were passed unanimously. 
hard work by the dedicated mem­bers of the ND groundskeeping crew. And no one knows this better than Juan Valdez, Jr. 
Juan Valdez is no one of any par­ticular significance, except for the fact that he is a world-renowned concert pianist. Juan, despite his in­credible natural ability, is not even the head groundskeeper at Notre Dame. In fact, he's not even a legal alien. Some places just don't recognize talent. Under the Dome, 
Juan is just another cog in the mighty groundskeeping machine. 
Juan understands his role in the operation of that machine, and feels that he can find fulfillment driving Jeeps. 
"Me divierto enJeeps," dijo juan. 
Juan, who refuses to drink this country's waters for religious reasons, says he loves the challenge ofdriving Indiana roads after a hard winter. 
"Tu madre es una polla,"Juan said, explaining his strange behavior. The snow and slush remind Juan ofnothing from his native land. 
"Comemos conejos," saidJuan. 
Juan is not your average Domer. He doesn't need to cultivate flowers or plant sod for a living. Juan dis­covered at an early age that musical talent, combined with an ability to produce weeds in mass amounts, could be more uplifting than plead­ing with the ground to yield a few colorful blossoms. 
Since coming to Notre Dame,Juan has instituted his own policy of "in loco cannabis" through his work with greenery. 
"Que hora es?" Juan said, sum­
marily. 
j 


...------------­
Thursday, April I, 1982-page 7
Editorials 
Who cares about apathy? 
We have been watching Notre news services would obviously changes are to be made and how Dame students complain about pick up the story and we can they are to be brought about. everything from a lack of social guarantee with a reasonable de­
On the issue ofthe student cen­space to the inconvience of parie­gree of certainty that the Univer­ter, there is general agreement thattals. sity will respond to the situation in we need one, but how many actual 
a way that will quiet things as soon 
proposals have been drawn up as possible. 
about what it is to offer?
Edward Konrady 
We are not advocating a student 
We will tell you all one thing­
revolt; we want to show the Uni­
you will never see one built until a 
and Randy Fahs 
versity that the students of Notre 
basic plan is formulated about
Dame are a significant group
This observation has led us to where it is to be built, what it will 
whose opinions must be taken into 
the conclusion that the vast contain, and how much it will cost. 
account when policies are made. 
majority of students would rather (Note: The student government
Notre Dame is a very tradition­
sit back and moan about problems, has finally begpn circulating peti­
oriented institution that does not
while only a few industrious ones tions about what students want 
like to have waves created in its
really try to do anything about featured in a student center, but 
own backyard. When Delores
them. why did they wait so long?)
Frese brought her discrimination
Quite honestly, we are stating case ·w court, the 1,1niversity The University will continue to that the vast majority of students drag its feet until it is handed a
decided to reach a settlement with
are docile and apathetic. 
specific proposal which is given
her without attracting the
for one example, let us take the publicity ofa trial. the strong support of the student keg policy. The reasons for its body.
If the administration chooses to
rejection by Fr. Van Wolvlear are act this way when one disqm­In essence, we are telling you toboth unclear and inane. But, has tented faculty member speaks out, get off your best intentions andthere been any active effort to imagine ·what changes could be bring your opinions to light by put­push the motion to the president brought about by 8,000 students. ting a little support behind them.
of the University? 
Part of the problem on the part Complaints will do no good unless
If there has, It's been done by a muted band instead of a full or­
ofthe student body is that they are the student body is willing to unite chestra. If the student body truly 
not united. The leaders of student behind solid proposals and put wanted to change such things as government find that they are con­pressure upon the administration the keg policy then they would 
fronted by general apathy by the to act on them. have united and made their 
group that they are trying to serve. feelings heard loud and clear. How can you honestly expect One response to the administra­any real and significant changes tion's policy would be to collect when student suppOrt is non­the left-over garbage from a existent? weekend of parties and build a Another part of the problem is mountain in front of the Ad­that even if the student support ministration building. The local existed, no one is really sure what 
A less 1tnodest proposal' 
In February's issue of the Notre undergraduate business degree is not in our university or in any one Dame Magazine, Kenneth Wood­no longer, he maintains with institution; the 'fault lies in the ward, class of '57, wrote an article reasonable references, the key to nature of the under­as one side of a debate on the gaining admission to a good graduate/graduate education sys­merits and future of the under­graduate business insUtution. tem itself. Professions such as graduate business college at t Notre While, personally, I wholehear­engineering now require the in­Dame. Mr. Woodward entitled his tedly concur with Mr. Woodward's gestion of so much pure physical essay "A Modest Proposal to opinions, I think he, too, is some­data while in the undergraduate Abolish ..." the above school. what shy of the mark. program that it is nearly impos­In a list ofpossible objections to sible for a four year program such his proposal (most of which were as Notre Dame's to produce a com­indeed covered by Mr. Houk's petent majors in the technical 
While I was impressed by both -rebuttal), Woodward says, fields who also have what is com­Woodward's presentation and that " ...why pick on the College of monly known as a "liberal educa­of his opponent, John Houk, class Business Administration? What tion." of '54, I feel that Mr. Woodward about the College ofEngineering?" Thus the crux of the problem is has, without meaning to, hit upon In answer to his own question, he revealed: there is, indeed, no real 
th~ major issue here. replies, "a student who wants to be need for an undergraduate busi­
Mr. Woodward mentions that an engineer must (italics mine) ness college at Notre Dame, and a the College of Business is not focus his energies on technical student graduating in business relevant to a "liberal education," training." Here the problem which may be lacking in some ofthe t1ner that Notre Dame is not an institu­Woodward is really addressing not points ofa "liberal" education, that tion devoted to "occupational only becomes evident but in­training which, rather than educat­training," and that, furthermore, an creases in scope. The real fault lies ing in facts, provides the back­
ground for future analysis of any 
Joseph Musumeci 
c? 
:l 

"problem"-so fine, do away with, or at least reconsider the goals of, 
u&ge 

the College of B.A. But there are colleges within the University
ofCl 

which are in deeper trouble. For to
~ill(.SS 

realize a complete liberal educa­
(-1·.1) 

tion for students in the more technical colleges ofour and other universities, we must closely reexamine the rationale for the ex­
J istence of these colleges, and con­

c 

sider whether these have any real
" 

value for a "Catholic university" dedicated to "intellectual excel­lence." Ci.._
4c--· ...,. L15~--~
0 ~7 

a pathU (a+ pe·the) 
a very real rrtlcro.scopic beastie which 5ubtly tnvades mon's precious bodily ~luids r-endering hir~ lisrle.ss, 
selFish, and social!~ ir1potent 
P.O.BoxQ 
Many leftists are terrorists 
DearEdttor: military force than that ofthc: junta 
and that they are backed by a large 
After reading jack Vogel's number of citizens, and yet they defense ofthe leftist guerrillas ofEI did not even participate in last Salvador in last Tuesday's Ob­week's elections. Surely this is server, l feel compelled to reply to strange behavior for a movement this obviously confused person. whose time has obviously come. 
-
When trying to discern whether The most repulsive claim youthe leftists should be labeled make in your essay is that the Left 

"terrorists" or not, Vogel con­"stands for freedom from military

cludes that since the Left is not a repression, true national political ... 

"small, unrepresentative group in­independence."

volved in armed and/or violent ac­The very activities they are cur­

tivity" the'n it is "definitely not renty engaged in reak of military

terrorist." He is under the impres­repression,or do you consider sion that since the leftists are a threatening potential voters with 

large group rather than a small one, tonure and death a way of obtain­

than they are not terrorists. 

ing "true national political in­My definition of a terrorist fol­
dependence"? lows more along the lines of the just as you claim that nodictionary meaning, rather than "substantial evidence" has been of­the convenient one offered by fered by the Reagan administration Vogel. If we consider that a ter­to verify Soviet or Cuban influencerorist is one who uses terror and in El Salvador, I claim that youviolence to intimidate and sub­don't offer one shred of evidencejugate, then those on the left in El in protecting your positionSalvador can definitely be labeled concerning the leftist guerrillas. It "terrorists." Before the recent is not my aim 'here to belittle theelection, leftists threatened to cut leftist movement in El Salvador.
the fingers off of those who voted The atrocities that they haveand intimidated others with death commited against other humanthreats. Up until and including the beings have also been commited toUme of the election, military a greater or lesser degree by the troops had to protect polling rightists and the military junta Inplaces from leftist attacks. In the their apparent disrespect for life,mountains of El Salvador, w.here 

they should all be considered ter­the Left has much of its control, 
rorists.
little voting took place for fear of What should be pointed out,reprisal. 

though, is that the leftists are notjust because a group may messiahs sent from heaven to free
possess a lot ofmanpower does not the people from their bondage.
legitimize it. A large group is just as This is the impression that Mr.

capable, if not more so, as a small Vogel seems to be under.

one to engage in terrorist ac­In the future, Mr. Vogel, I would

tivities. suggest a little less philosophy and 
What really confuses me, a lot more common sense.
though, is why the Left has not yet been able to gain governmental 
Micbael Monk

control over El Salvador. You claim 1 that they possess a much stronger AlumniHall 
==Ihe=Obsenrer== Editorial Board Department ~gers The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the 
Editor-in-Cbief.............................. Michael Monk Business Manager .............................Tony Aiello University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily 
Managing Editor..........,.....Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller.............................................Eric Schulz reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report­
ExecutiveNews Edttor.........................Kelli Flint AdvertisinG Manager.......................Chris Owen ed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of 
SMC News Editor..................... Margaret Fosmoe Production Manager.................. Maura Murphy a majority of the Editorial Board. Co.nmentaries, opinions and letters are the views SportsEditor...................................Chris Needles Circulation Manager: ......................... Ray Inglin 
of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and 
Editorials Editor .............................Paul McGinn Systems Manager.....;···········..........Bruce Oakley the free expression of varying opinions on campus, t:htougb letters, ii encoun.ged. Features Editor ...................................Tari Brown 
Pboto Editor...................................Rachel Blount l'ounded November 3, 196b 
P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46SS6 (219) 239-S303 
.I I 
-· 
~~()14tS~L~~=,..~i=e~S========~======================T=h=ur=sd=a=y,TA=pr=il=I=,I=9=82===p=ag=e,s 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
Mud Volleyball pairings have bc:;c;!n posted outside the A trip to Valparaiso is in store for the Notre Dame Student Union offices. Play begins April 5 and continues until An baseball team as they play a doubleheader against the Crusaders. Bill Tost~'s Sunny Saturday. -The Observer Matre is scheduled to start the first game for the Irish, whose record stands at 4-6. "Valparaiso is a scrappy team," said Head Coach Larry Gallo. "They have a new coach, lots ofenth t usiasm, and are always tough at home. Their ballpark is very windy, and I expect two tough
All Off-Campus Hockey Players and their 
games." -The Observer
friends are invited to an April Fools Day Social Gathering, tonight, at 
9:30p.m., at 199 North Shore Avenue. Any questions, call Ed McNal­
ly at 232-3153 or Randy McNally at 272-8597.-The Observer 


The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­ 
Classifieds  day through Friday. 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However, classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business. day prior to insertion. All classifteds must be prepaid. etther in person or through the mail.  
NOTICES  LOST: One set of keys on Sunday. March 28 at dmner 1n C-L1ne of North Dining Hall. near the melted hamburger cheese. There are six keys on a Woodstock key chain. w1th the room number 340 pnnted  DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO N'vC OR LONG ISLAND FOR EASTER CAN LEAVE WEDNESDAY-CALL 1089 ANYTIME-WILL SHARE USUAL  Please help me I need graduation tick­etsI Call Drew 8922 WANTED grad. tickets. Please call 277­0758 after 5.00 p m.  Remember th1s? TKO-bubbler-633,635­Can you say wasted? Sure, I knew you could!·Sigmficant pause-lfs 6:15 and 21· Oh my God, I can·t believe thls!-Bruce­The food IS 1n the OTHER room-John  DON"t MISS OUT II! Only 21 days left until ND"s x1 man---PAUL SOMELOFSKE --­turns 21 !!! Women -­mark that lucky day down -­APRIL 22 -­and start prepanng now!  
on two of them. If you have theR1, please  RIDE  NEEDED  to  Oshkosh/ Appleton  Denver-Bugs vs Woody-Johnny are you  
Summer Jobs NaliOnal  Park  Cos.  21  call Leanne Michelle. x7076 Thanks! lm  area at Easter. Call Terese: 8148  queer?-Oiana Ross Jr and the Supremes  
Parks, 5000 Openings. Complete In­formation $5.00 Park Report Miss1on Mtn. c;:o., 651 2nd Ave. W N, Kalispell, MT 59901 $50,000-$80,000 PEA YEAR Are you bored w1th your JOb, tJred of workmg for the other man. National company based  really lost w1thout them I LOST-Pair of wJre-nmmed glasses in brown case·Somewhere between the law school and the park1ng lot just south of the eng1neenng bU1Id1ng.lf f1nd.call Mike at 287-7781.  DESPERATE! Need a nde to Connect1cut area for Easter Call Liz at 7965. Need graduation tixl Will pay! Call4233 Need nde to SOUTH FLORIDA for Easter Break Call Todd 1763.  PERSONALS Do you have your copy of the Molarity books yet? No? Well then hurry -Jun1pei Press ts st1ll marketmg a limited supply of the two smash hits by  8 in a Mav -It was soupah(super)l THANKS! DeMar, lm pregnant! KWICkl P.S. Apnl Fool! .. ....... ············· .............  JAM-Here s a personal just to say "h1. I m really looking forward to tomorrow By the way, how come whenever I see you, there are about 200 other people around. We have to do someth1ng about that . Anyway, happy April-fool's day.  
- 1n Lexington, Kentucky look1ng for live distnbutors in seven-county area. Call 1­800-9594 Go1ng to SYRACUSE NY for Easter? I need a nde both ways, share usual. If YOU need a ride. call anyway Maybe we can rent a car Please call K.C. at 1223 my grandma·s wa11ing! VOLUNTEERS NEEDED TO ASSIST IN HANDICAPPED HORSEMANSHIP CLASSES LOCATED NEAR CAMPUS. WE PROVIDE ALL TRAINING,YOU PROVIDE THE LOVE. CALL 234-2263 Typ1ng Serv1ce Available. Please Call 288-5855 after 4pm. · SUPERMAN II Th1s Fnday and Saturday. Eng. Aud. 7,9:15,11:30. Sponsored by K otc·s. ATTENTION I ATTENTION I 2 Riders needed to St.Cioud, M1nn (or anywhere thereabouts) lor Easter break Call7951 or 6713 HAIRCUTS! ONLY $4 FOR GUYS AND $6 FOR  BLANDFORD Where's your hair? FOR RENT Student hous1ng-clean, safe. $1 00/mo. 291-1405 3-4 bedroom home. furmshed, 3 blocks off campus Th1s summer and/or fall. Graduate students preferred. Call Mr. Nee. 287-9636, days. 4 Bdrm N Shore $270 mo total. Call Patty (319)322-8735 Call refunded APT FOR RENT 288-0955 BE YOUR OWN BOSS. COMFORTABLE 5 BEDROOM. COMPLETELY FUR­NISHED HOUSE FOR 5 OR 6 CLOSE TO CAMPUS. PHONE 288-3942  Need nde .to Cbicagojprtwo;AprilStb. Will share expences, Louis-;!87-0615 RIDERS to FT. WORTH NEEDED DESPARATELY APRIL 16 WKND.Call CHRIS at 1771 ASAP I need a ride to BALTIMORE for Easter to see many relatives. I can leave as early as Tuesday and get back the next Tues­day if necessary. Will share usual and I really enjoy dnving at mght My relatives are counting on see1ng me so don·t let them dowm. Call Mike at 3403 as soon as poss1ble and m ake many people happy. Ride needed to Ph1la. for Easter break on 4/7 or 4/8. Will share usual. Call Frank 3282 NEED 2 RIDES TO CLEVELAND FOR EASTER 289-1916 HELP!!! I DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE TO OKLAHOMA CITY FOR EASTER!!! MY OTHER RIDE GOT CANCELLED AND ALL MY CHOCOLATE BUNNIES WILL MELT OR GET STALE IF I DONT GET TO THEM!!I CALL RENEE AT  everybody s favonte cartoomst. M1chael Molinelli, 1n either Don't Make a Right or last year's charHopper, now 1n 1ts fourth edition, On the Road to Selling Out Hey-don t delay -act today I LYONS HALL FOODSALES OFFERS THE BEST IN FRESH, THICK CRUST PIZZA DELIVERED ANYWHERE ON SOUTH QUAD FOR THE NOMINAL CHARGE OF 25 CENTS SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY NIGHTS FROM 9:30 TO 11 AND ORDER YOURS. ALSO: EVERY WEDNESDAY NIGHT IS GUEST CELEBRITY NIGHT WITH WELL­KNOWN CAMPUS-FIGURES WORKING THE COUNTER I APRIL FOOLS THE CIRCUS IS COMING TODAYI!!!! THE CIRCUS IS CO~ING TODAY!!!!! BICYCLE PICK UP TODAY, 1-4 p.m. Gate 14 Stadium. Bring tag for ID. Mass Asuasln •.. ...don't kiss, shoot ...  The Hell w1ih wool shirts! lt"s spnng, and l"ve got my red head. lfs spr1ng, and I ve got my redhead. Thanks Laura. for yourself and the Shirt. Amaz1ng stunts! Dazzling special effects! See SUPERMAN II this Fnday or Satur­day mght at the Eng1neenng Auditonum. Support the Kmghts of Columbus. SUPERMAN II this Fn & Sat 7,9:15,11 :30 Eng Aud. You will believe a man can FLVII SING? Enjoy good reiiQIOUS music? Jo1n a hard-working choir that 1s dedicated to pra1s1ng God with mus1c. If you would like to be a part of th1s experience, please call tor an audition. 277-5878-Phyllis or 1· 522-1393-Ric. St James Ep1scopal Cat­hedral, South Bend. COLLEGIATE JAU FESTIVAL HIGH SCHOOL DIVISION Featuring some of the best high school jazz bands 1n the m1d-west! OMIGOSHIIIIII'M PREGNANTIII RYAN  The Gutsy Ones comment(Pete and Joe)... We are not losers. We are just two guys looking for fun. We apologize for the Insults, but we were only addressing the FLING HUNGRY WOMEN, who excluded themselves from the fat. dull and ugly status. To the system. personals are for persons, not for systems. M1nd your own business, LOSER COME AND HEAR FATHER THEODORE HESBURGH,csc SPEAK ON NUCLEAR THREAT; UPDATE ON VIENNA" MON , APRIL 5. LIB. AUD , 4 pm PEG, N1ce "free-form" water polo! HUMILIATED? We can "discuss· it Friday. BUS DRIVER'S KID DEAD FISH: There are four th1ngs on campus that smell like dead fiSh -one IS a dead fish, and the other three live 1n 303 WALSH. Love, Cerv1x and Boner H1 Again Little Giblin-We hope you like rugby! The club needs fans-check it out!  
GIRLS -LOT OF EXPERIENCE IN STYLING, ROTC AND ERSONALLY DESIGNED CUTS FOR YOUR FACE AND HAIR CALL MICHOLE AT-7951 4ATTENTION SMC CLASS OF '84: ap­plications are now available at the LeMans Student Activities Office for next years Jun10r Board comm1ssuoners. P1ck one up, fill 11 out, and return by Friday, April 2. QUESTIONS? call Demse 4834, Beth 5471, Kathleen 4148, or Molly 4346. LOST/FOUND REWARD: LOST GOLD NECKLACE WITH CROSS AT CAMPUS VIEW POOL. SENTIMENTAL VALUE. Please call 283-6954 Lost-Notre Dame Monogram jacket Thursday, March 25 at Senior Bar. I hav t e your jacket. It is missing two buttons. Call Dave at8307 Found-Monogram jacket at senior bar Thursday. March 25. You switched 11 with m1ne. Call Dave at 8307.  WANTED TYPING 28 years as a secretary-excel­lent typ1st, retJred. $1.00/page call Phyllis 259-2501. Summer Res1dent Camp Staff needed. Mid-June to early August. All positions open: Counselors, Waterfront, Cooks and nurse. Contact Girl Scouts of S1nging Sands, 15985 S. R 23, Granger, Indiana 46530 219-277·0900. ATTENTION GRADUATING SENIORS: WORKING IN NEW YORK CITY AFTER GRADUATION? NEED A PLACE TO LIVE? 81 NO GRAD IS LOOKING FOR ROOMMATE PRESENT ONE IS GOING BACK TO GRAD SCHOOL I HAVE A FANTASTIC APARTMENT IN A NICE, SAFE NEIGH­BORHOOD; CLOSE & CONVENIENT TO BOTH DOWNTOWN & MIDTOWN MANHAT­TAN. IF INTI;RESTED, CALL JOHN AT 212 668-3126 DAYTIME OR 212 858-7464 NIGHTTIME R1de needed to BUFFALO for Easter  79051!!!!11! NEED RIDE TO NEW YORK CITY FOR EASTER BREAK CALL KEVIN 1767 HELP! I DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE TO ATLANTA FOR EASTERIII CAN LEAVE ANYTIME NEXT WEEK. WILL SHARE DRIVING AND EXPENSES. BE A GOOD EGG AND CALL 3351 HELP! I NEED A RIDE FOR THIS WEEKEND. ANYONE GOING EAST ON 1-80 THROUGH PENN. PLEASE CALL GREGG AT 8607. HELP! I need a nde to northern Jersey for break. Will leave as,soon as possible and Will share usual. Call Pam, 5236 SMC Riders needed to north New Jersey for Easter break. Will leave as soon as you can. Call Mike 6700. PHILLY-NEED RIDE HOME FOR EAS­TER. WILL SHARE AS USUAL CALL RON AT6261 We need ndes home to Connecticut or NYC area for Easter Break. Will share usual. Call Matt-3248 or Dan-1820. Need nde to Cleveland for Easter. Call John at 1587  Smile Sandy, Affectionately yours, an insh barishnikov. Happy B-day Carl, from all of your friends, prov1ded the m1ssles don·t gel sent today. ITS HEREIII THE CIRCUS COMES TODAYII NORTH DINING HALL. (In case of rain we'll ... you at LaFortune Student Center). SIGN-UPS for Sophomore Literary Fes­tival being taken at Student Union Office, 2nd floor LaFortune. ChaJrman of Ex­ecutive Commltlee, All positions open Sign ups March 30-Apnl 2 SLY FOX SLY FOX SLY FOX SEESLYFOX SEESLYFOX SEESLYFOX  p.s. apnl fools .. Saturday, Apnl 3,1982 8:30AM-5:00PM Adams High School FREE ADMISSION ATTENTION: The ESOPHAGUS CON­STRICTORS will be tak1ng a study break on Monday, April 5 at 4:45 to play in Bookstore Throats are all cordially invited to attend. HOLLYWOOD GALA HOLLYWOOD GALA HOLLYWOOD GALA The show must go on... THIS PERSONAL IS TO ANNOUNCE TO ALL THAT MR. JOSEPH LOM­BARDI, THE ABUSE KING OF THE ENTIRE UNIVERSE, LOVES NOTRE DAMEISMC WOMEN WHO EAT OVER 5000 CALORIES A DAY! DO YOU FIT THIS DESCRIPTION? LIKE--DO YOU FIND YOURSELF MUNCHING OUT ON WHOLE PIZZAS AND HIGHLIGHTING YOUR NIGHTS WITH THE OPENING OF FOODSALES? IF YOU WEIGH OVER 400 POUNDS AND STILL GOING. GIVE JOE A CALL AT 3679 OR STOP BY AT 454 MORRISSEY! (side note to Joe-­a-BUSE--CHENG!. .. Love, the defensive  N.D. Males: Its not only N.D. girls who are "Looking for Love·· 1t"s SMCers too! Use the phone­start a fling I Cheryl, Happy Belated Birthday!!! Orti ARE YOU, OR SOMEONE YOU KNOW, UGLY? LET PEOPLE KNOW ... RUN FOR UMOC SENIOR MUG PICKUP -Stanford Party Room April 1 5-8pm HAPPY BIRTHDAY (YESTERDAY) FR BURTCHELLII SMITH BROTHERS OF ALUMNI RIVER CITY RECORDS PRESENTS HEAD EAST IN CONCERT THIS FRIDAY, APRIL 2 WITH SPECIAL GUEST SOUTH SHORE AND DRIVE TIME AT THE RAINBOW ROLLER RINK, 12TH STREET, MISH T AWAKA. AD­VANCED TICKETS ONLY $5.00 AVAILABLE AT RIVER CITY RECORDS, 50970 US 31 NORTH. OR TICKETS AVAILABLE AT THE DOOR FOR $7 50. SPECIAL HEAD EAST IN-STORE AP­PEARANCE FRIDAY 3:30 AT RIVER CITY RECORDS. COME AAND MEET  
Did someone lose a blue coat in Corby's? I found one that says "IMMACULATE CONCEPTION CHEERLEADERs·· Call Michael at 289-7414 and tell me what mght you think you lost your coat. Lost-contacts in case Mar. 25. II found please call3522. LOST: Kodak lnstamahc Camera. has an orange case. lllound pr-ase return to 828 GraceorcaiiJohn at 6 • .11. LOST: A GOLD CHAIN AND CRUCIFIX  break. Can leave anytime! Carole -4796 SMC Two RIDES NEEDED to Ph11i or Baltimore -Easter break can leave any time Meg­han -4796 SMC ATIENTION HAWKEYESII The South Bend branch of Hawkeye World Tours announces wit~ regret the dem1se of its cruise ship "Misaligned Nova.·· The Nova was sunk in Cedar Falls, Iowa earty last week and her rema1ns were sold for scrap. But on Apnl8, her replacement. the HMS Buick Wagon, will depart on her maiden voyage from South Bend to Des  NEED RIDE to LONG ISLAND for Easter. Can leave on Wednesday afternoon 4/7. Will share usual. Call Paul at 11 00. FOR SALE USED & OUT-PRINT BOOKS bought, sold, searched. ERASMUS BOOKS. Tues-Sunday, 12-6. 1027 E. Wayne (One block south of Eddy-Jefferson Intersec­tion.) USED BOOK SHOP. HOURS WED.,  LIKE MAS.H? SEE THE SAME WRITER'S PLAY, SLY FOX APRIL 1,2 &3 SLY FOX From the creator of M.A.S.H. Larry Gelbart·s SLY FOX Presented by St. Edward·s Hall April 1, 2, & 3 8:00pm Washington Hall Admission: $1.00 D~rected by Mario Pedilll  WOMAN OF THE YEAR) joe lombard~: you think thafs diane's way of saying she wants you to ask her out? a concerned fellow hunk Would you and/or your tnend(s) like to be caricatured and put ·into cartoons? That's what will happen if you send 1 )name, 2)photo, and 3)address to: StuHSimon c/o .leb Cash1n BoxQ. The Observer All entnes Will be 1ncluded 1n one strip tor the An Tostal frame-stuffing contest. Use campus mail.. .1fs free!  THE BOYS IN THE BAND. Boo-Boo, we can be friends--Yogi. "The Peasants~! J~~kR<><:f<•.ooGFOOD SATURDAY 4/3/82 NAU DOGFOOD DOGFOOD saturday 4/3/82 NAU Call 8941 for ReservatiOns/Info Sunman -I'm gett1ng hungryll AND GUESS WHAT??? NOW THE MONT ANNA MAN GETS TO SEE SOME REAL CORN COUNTRY. THE SHEEP WILL BE GRAZING, THE ANIMAL WILL BE ROWING BUT THE BUS WIL  
AT THE ROCKNE SWIM OFFICE "LOST" ON TUESDAY MARCH 23, 1982. IF "FOUND" PLEASE RETURN  Moines. A beautiful Easter tour is planned for several riders and Your Cruise Direc­tor Rachel reports that the accomodat1ons  SAT SUN. 9-7. CASPERSON 1303 BUCHANAN RD., NILES.  CABARET IS COMING Ill  The Notre Dame/Sa1nt Mary·s Dance Theatre presents:  PROBABLY BREAK DOWN... I THINK IU SHED A QUIET TEAR HAVE FUN. BABABAB  
TO 828 GRACE HALL OR CALL JOHN AT 6721­NO QUESTIONS WILL BE ASKED. HAS MUCH SENTIMMENTAL VALUE. LOST: A strand of PEARLS. Much sen­timental value. Please call Karen at 3773  aboard the new ship are much improved. Captain Dave 1nvites all who need a ride west along Interstate 80 as far as Des Moines to secure their reservatiOns by contacting him at 8433 or Cruise Director Rachel at 7893: If you are heading toward the D.C. or  For Sale: All in one STEREO. Good con­dition. Great for dorm room. Call alter 5:00 pm287-1911 For Sale FOUR hxs to Cubs-Mets baseball game April 1Oth; $20.00. Call Mart1n 272-0361.  CABARET Tickets on sale Men AprilS Dear MOM, Beheve It or not! One more day to show lime and this 1s not an April fools joke. G.S.C.  Our Spring Concert W1th guest music1ans, The Brady/Stalker StnngDuo Ongmal Score by Roger Briggs. Th1s Fnday and Saturday evemngs at 8 p.m. in o·Laughlin Auditonum, and this Sunday at 2:30p.m. Join us//  PS. MAYBE IU EVEN HAVE A FE INTERESTING NEW BEDTIME STORIES TO TELL YOU WHEN YOU RETURN. REALITY IS JUST A CRUTCH FOR PEOPLE WHO CAN'T HANDLE DRUGS..  
Lost: A rust colored knapsack containing a Finite textbook and math, h1istory, and English notebooks. II found please call Erin 5749 SMC  Northern Va. area. or driving down 1-95 for EASTER break, I would greatly ap­preciate a ride. PLEASE CALL John at 8331. Will share usual.  Refngerator,mediUm SIZed, good cond., 1 yr. old, $125, caM 272-0674  WHY IS A TREE UKE THE CHESAPEAKE BAY? THEY BOTH HAVE THE SAME POPULATION OF CRABS .  RAH·RAH ANNAMAL -GIVE fTYOUR BEST SHOT WE LOVE.YOU I  Here are the answers to The Absurder's absurd rock tnvia qu1z: 1. pumice 2. basah  
STOLEN: from South Dining Hall, Tues­day morning. a white leather clutch with all 10 in it; II you find it please return my purse or any of its contents to Heather Fraser at 100 Lyons. Its return would be appreciated/rewarded. Phone 7848.  NEED RIDE TC)"BUFFALO FOR EAS­TER PLEASE CAU RAY AT 272-1648 Need ride to U. of P. in Philly for Easter. Can leave Wed. night and retum Tues. Call Mary 5411, SMC.  TICKETS Need extra tickets tor graduation. Call Mark at 3008.  Attn. Band Members: Heres your first clue to the mystery candidate: Her major is the real EE, Social cha~rman she'd like to be NEED CREDIT? Information on receiving  MARIANNE. MARY JO, DEBBIE CHIP BLOCK I LIKE YOUR BACKWARDS I!!  3. carbon 4. stalagmites 5. shale 6. Georgetown Umversity; Stonewalls; the Hoy as 7.pyrite 8. Great Britain  the  

Visa, Mastercard. with no cred~ check. 
. 9. Rock Clip 

LOST: while going to St. Ed's from the DESPERTEL Y NEED 6 TICKETS FOR 
Other cards available. Free Brochure call Needed: Rides lor 2 to U. oilII. leav1ng Fn. 10.mart
J! library, a black cross pen with the initials Need ride to NORTH JERSEY for Easter. THE 1182 GRADUATION CEREMONY­Public Credit Service: (602) 949-0276. Mikeat8328 For the qu1z Itself, see The Absurder. 
K.J.C. If found please call Kevin at 8858. Share $$. Brian 3648 PLEASE CALL JOHN AT 7685 Ext. 766. 
! 
Thanks. 
..._____________________________,;,..______________, 
.., 


---------~-=l 
The Observer -Sports Thursday, Aprill, 1982-page 9 
Sports board 
Patrick Dlvlelon Ponlana 36 35 507 12.5 x-N Y Islanders 53 15 9 374 237 115 San Otego 16 56 222 33 y-N Y Rangers 39 2~ 13 308 296 91
TENNIS 
x·chncheel dtvtston lllle y-Phtladelphta 37 30 10 312 303 84 y-clinched playoff spol y-Ptllsburgh 29 36 13 296 330 71 Wash~ngton 24 41 13 310 333 61 
Men'I Double• S.m~Finele Power (3306) I Stmpson (3370) vs Pterce (1424) I Pean (1432) 
Yesterday's Reauha 

CLARENCECAMPBELLCONFERENCE
Resler (1818) I Hogan (1816) vs Mulligan (3345) I Basion 119, Washtnglon 1 09 
Smythe Dvlalon
Callahan (3361) New Jersey 103, Cleveland 87 
W L T GF GA Pta
Phtladelphta 99, Chtcago 98 x-Edmonton 
46 17 15 406 291 107
lndtana 108. Detrott 1 06 y-Calgary 
28 33 17 322 342 73
Denver 120, Dallas 119 . y-Vancouver 
28 33 16 273 278 72
San Otego at Phoentx (n) y-Los Angeles 
24 38 15 307 349 63
Kansas Ctly at Seallle (n) Colorado 
17 4$ 12 234 346 46 
Mixed Doublee Sem~Finelo Bu~on (1789) I Gallagher (4312) vs bye Croke (234·2880) I Conway (277-3371) vs Cunneen ( 1841) I Legeay (8055) 
Norrie Dlvlalon x-M1nnesota 36 22 20 338 282 92 y-Wtnntpeg 33 31 14 316 325 80 y-St. Louts 31 39 8 308 340 70 y-Chtcago 28 38 12 321 356 68 Toronlo 20 42 16 293 367 56 
Men'oOpen Delrotl 21 46 12 269 347 54 Jerry Rtnella (7584) vs John Regalbulo (288-0431) X·ChnChed diVISIOn tllle
In thiS year's NHLplayoff format, the top four teams 
Kevtn Stmpaon vs Dye y-clinched playoff spot 
in each division make the playoffs, regardless of
Tony Pterce (1424) vs Dave Yordy (3439) 
overallleague standing. • 
Tom Chambers (8895) vs. Lynn Conway (277·3371) 
Chns Packer (3869) vs Bnan Hearney (3113) Domen~cTr~come (3075) vs Jack Etsenbets (1058) Mtke Bealy (288·9636) vs Gary Purk (1056) George LaChance vs Bye 
PRINCE OF WALES CONFERENCE 
Yeeterdey'a Reauha
Ademo Division Monlreal 5, Hartford 1 

W L T GF GA Pta. 

Washtngton 4, Pttlsburgh 4 (lte) x-Montreal 46 15 17 355 215 109 Detrot14, Wtnntpeg 2 y-Boslon 41 26 10 306 271 92 New York Rangers 4, Chtcago 1 y·Buffalo 38 25 15 298 262 91 Los Angeles at Edmonlon (n) y-Quebec 31 30 16 337 333 78 Colorado at Vancouver (n) Hanlord 21 40 17 259 341 59 
iBASKETBALLR 


•. 
~~1;----------~,~~ 
...Return
NBA E111tern Con'-twnce Allentlc Dlvlolon W L Pet. GB 
Thayer, a Hering Award recepient
y·Bollon 56 16 Unheated in their last six matches, the Notre
~~: continuedfrompage 12
y·Phlladelphta 50 22 6 last spring. "I think we're much 
Dame tennis team will attempt to keep the string 
Waahtnglon 37 35 514 19 
stronger than we were a year ago."
New Jersey 37 36 alive Friday, when they entertain Ball State in a 3 
. ~~--~: ~-..... offensive linemen. Putting our head5
-New.YOI1<·-·----· 31 Thayer should know. The Joliet,
41 p.m. contest at the Courtney Tennis Center. to 
Clntrel Dlvlelon together, we can be unbelievable." 
Ill. native is pretty much an author­
x·Mtlwaukee 49 23 661 open an JJ. match homestand. The Irish, winner
While a lot of work remains to be 
ity on strength. "At home I lift with
Allanla 36 35 507 125 in eight oftheir last nine matches, entertain But­
Delran 34 39 466 15.5 done, the players see daily improve­
some of the top power-lifters in the 
ler Tuesday (April 6) and Purdue Wednesday
lnd1ana 33 40 452 16.5 
ment. "We've learned a lot of things 
world. That's one of my favorite
Chtcago 29 43 403 20 (April7). (Photo by Cheryl Ertelt) 
since last year," admits Shiner. "The
Cleveland 15 56 .211 33.5 pastimes. I love to lift weights." attitude this spring has been very 
Thayer now benches between 
good. Everybody has been lifting 
430 and 450 pound5. "But I'll get
hard, and there's been lots of en­
Weetern Con-ce better," he promises. Mldweot Dlvlolon thusiasm -even during ballet 
The line, too, should be better,
w L Pet. GB class," smiles the 6-8, 265 pound 
thanks to the return ofan incumbant
San Anlon1o 44 28 611 
hulk.

Denver 42 30 583 2 senior at all hut one position. Tackle 
~source
Houslon 41 32 562 3.5 "The progress is great," affirms 
John Putztuck is the only lineman 
Notre Dame 

not a starter last year, but he's sup­
•Travel
239-7080 

ported by a veneran crew. Besides 
P.O. Box 1602 Thayer and Shiner, both two-year 
St. Mary's South Bend, IN 46634 
284-5606 236·2656 ter Mark Fischer return. "We seniors are not going to go 
lJiggerJ>he~scoaches 
starters, guard Randy Ellis and cen· 
Come join one of our Escorted Tours. 
out with a losing seao;on," claims
Sertotna charity gatne 
Tom. "There's fire in us now. We're INDIANAPOI.IS ( AP) -Notre Hinkle l·iel<.lhouse. Reed will lead going to go out with a bang." 
0 May 14-16 ·Brown County· Rolling green hills, overnight at Carrousel's Brown County Inn.
D;um· coach Richard " Digger" the National Stars. IRISH ITEMS -The weatherman Activities for all ages! $225
Twenty seniors who have com­cooperated and gave the Irish a sun­hall A!>sociation star Willis Reed, pleted their college eligibility haave ny day for practice number 
Phdp), and former National Basket· 
0 May 20-23 ·Las Vegas· Glittering! Ever Exciting! $429 <.'urrently the basketball coa<.·h at been invited 10 participate. in the three ....Gerry Faust continues to 
0 July 9·11 ·Greenfield Village and Windsor! Step into
direct some of the action from up in
Crt·i~hton University, have been game. 
history! $190 sclencd as coa<.·ht·s in the I7th an­Some of the funds from this year's the tower ....Freshman Van Pt:arcy 

-

0 July 16 or August 24-Four Days · Knoxville and the World's Fair. Educational and Fun! $295 nual Senoma Charities game. game will he donated to former In· is doing a good job of juggling both 
diana star Landon Turner and John track and loot ball so tar. The second· we1ot All·Star~ in the April 2-t game at llollinden, a tiJrmer 7-foot-6 center team tlanker has made every one of 
l'hclp~ will coach a team of Mid· 
0 July 26-August 15 ·China '82 ·Our third tour directed tor Indiana State-Evansville. Both Faust's workouts at this point ...."1 
by Geraldine Halt. See ancient China and the new suftC:red seriou), injuries in auto acci· just hurry through track so I'm able 
emerging China! $3,450 dents last year and must usc wheel to catch some of practice," he ex­0 August 8·18 ·Going Up To Jerusalem· Our Eighteenth
Overseas 
chairs. plained. 
Pilgrimage! Spiritual Leader, Father Edward O'Connor, Notre Dame. Directed by George Ambler. $1,775
students ~································ 
0 August 15·22 ·Alaska '82 ·Cruise the Inside Passage 
on Costa's Spectacular MTS Daphne! From $998 
: All COTH Majors : 
0 August 28-Sept. 2 · Historic Mackinac Island · Soo Locks · Ride on the Algoma Railroad In Canada's
winN.I.T. : and Prospective Majors : 
wilds. Directed by George Ambler, $385 
0 September 16·19 ·Nashville and the Grand Ole Opry! 
( Maynooth, Ireland) The 
: Auyone interested in Film and Video courses, : 
For all you Country-Western fans! $292
Maynooth basketball team swept the National lntervarsity : Mass Communication and/ or Speech Communic~tion, :
Tournament 

0 October 2·24 · Down Under '82 · Visiting New Zealand, last week in Galway to become the 
Australia, and Fiji! Directed by Geraldine Hatt. National Champions of Ireland. or wishes to discuss the possibility of a major
i : 
0 November 6-13 ·Celebrate The Caribbean· A cruise Playing on the team were four aboard the Costa Lines World Reniassance!
+ or a double major in these areas should come to + 
Notre Dame students -Mike Can­Great Fun! From $935 
non, Mark Sommers, Mike Kitz, and :. the departmental offices on the dates t 
To receive more information, check those tours ,
Mike Brennan, all of whom are 
of interest, clip this ad and mail to 1st Source
indicated for majors. i
presently studying in Maynooth on 
Travel or call one of our convenient offices. 
the Saint Mary's Sophomore Year Abroad Program. 
i Advising & Registration 1•
The team was led by a former 
Name -----------------------------------------­
Notre Dame student, player/coach 
i: Mon. ,_April5...:~nior majors-NO .
Kevin Quigley. Quigley wao; in the 
Phone: Home Business 

Ireland program three years ago, and Tues., Apfi! 6:Set}~r majors-SMC hao; now returned for a Master's de· • Wed., April7-Juniormajors-SMC + 
Address 

gree in History. Maynooth's winning of the : Thur., AprilS-Junior majors-NO ~ 
Ciiy State Zip 
tournament was quite a surprise as 
+ Tues., April13~Soph. majors-NO
Maynooth only had won two games 
in the pao;t nine years. : Wed., April14-Soph. majors-SMC 
~................................ 
-

~---­
The Observer-Sports 
Thursday, April 1, -1982 -page 10 
Tripuckascores 32 
Knight, Pacersedge Pistons 

INDIANAPOUS (AP) -Billy Knight sank a 20-foot shot from the right corner with three seconds to go last night night, lifting the Indiana Pacers to a 108-106 National Basket­ball Association victory over the Detroit Pistons. 
Knight's winning basket, his first points since the opening period, snapped the seventh tie ofthe game and capped a Pacer rally from nine points down early in the fourth quar­ter. 
The Pistons still led 94-87 with under eight minutes remaining before a three-point play by rookie Herb Williams started a string of nine straight points by the Pacers. George McGinnis assisted on one basket by Clemon Johnson, then McGinnis stole the ball and went in 
for a stuff shot that tied the game·at 
94-94 with 5:35 to go. 
Johnny Davis completed the 
string for the Pacers with another 
steal and fast-break layup. 
Two baskets by Terry Tyler three 
minutes later gave Detroit its last 
lead at 103-102. Don Buse, who led 
Indiana with 18 points, gave the 
Pacers the lead again before Detroit 
rookie Isiah Thomas hit one of two 
free throws for a tie at 104-104. 
Davis gave the Pacers a two-point lead with 36 seconds left, but rookie Kelly Tripucka, who led the Pistons with 32 points, tied the game for the final time at 106-106 on a long jum­per with 30 seconds to go. 
Davis missed a shot, but Detroit's Kent Benson -who grabbed the rebound -stepped out of bounds and the Pacers regained possession to set up Knight's winning basket. 

Johnson added 17 points to the Pacers' balanced offense. Davis finished with 15 points, Williams and Louis Orr 14 apiece and Butch Carter 12. McGinnis had only seven points, but he added 12 rebounds, seven assists and four steals. 
Benson backed Tripucka with 20 points and 14 rebounds, while Thomas added 19 points and 10 as­sists for the Pistons. 
Indiana's biggest lead was seven points midway through the third quarter. the Pistons then scored eight straight, however, and widened the lead to 86-77 as Thomas had 12 points in the third period. 
PhiladelphiaPhillies 
Schmidtpraisesoff-seasondeals 
West Gennany's Sylvia Hanika holds her trophy high after upset Martina Navratilova 1-6, 6-3, 6-4, to win the singles title of the 1300,000Avon Tennis Championships atMadison Square Garden. 
Aprill-Thurs.-6-8p.m. 
Haggar Hall Auditorium 
Guestfrom Illinois Univ. willshare :experienceswithequipment and legalityofdrinking ,driving, andstudentinvolvement. 
-

BAGGAGE TRUCKS 
CLEARWATER, Fla (AP) Philadelphia Phillies third baseman Mike Schmidt is the kind of person who pulls no punches. He says what he thinks even if it's not popular with people, including his bosses. 
So, when Schmidt, the National League's Most Valuable Player the past two seasons, says he thinks the team has been improved by some trades, which have been unpopular with many fans, it's worth listening to his opinion. 
The deals involved young outfiel­der Lonnie Smith, catcher Keith Moreland and veteran shortstop Lar­ryBowa 
Smith made a lot of fundamental mistakes, but he could hit, run like a deer and always seemed to make things happen. He finished the season with a 23-game hitting streak. He went in the three-way deal with Cleveland and St. Louis that netted the Phillies catcher Bo Diaz. 
Moreland, a young catcher with 
, an effective bat, but short in some areas on defense, was dealt to the Chicago Cubs in an exchange that brought pitcher Mike Krukow to Philadelphia Bowa, the Philadelphia shortstop for 12 years and the best statistically at his position in the majors over a long period, had contract dif­
ficulties, feuded through the newspapers with the front office over the problem, and probably was shipped more because of the per­sonality conflict than just player consideration. 
The club's other catcher, veteran Bob Boone, was sold to California of the American League because the Phillies felt he had lost the knack of throwing out runners and his bat has been comparatively silent the last few seasons. 
"Trades are going to be un­popular," Schmidt said in analyzing the 1982 Phillies. "Of course, it depends on the player." 

Schmidt said changes are the prerogative of those who buy bal­lclubs. He said the group headed by Bill Giles, which purchased the Phillies from the Carpenter family 
last fall, "saw fit to, I don't know whether to change the image is the right term, but I think we bettered ourselves in the areas we needed to better ourselves." 
Greensboro ignored, golfers wantMasters 
GREENSBORO, N.C. (AP) ­Many ofpro golfs leading lights take this week offto put the final touches on their preparations for the Mas­ters, the first of the year's Big Four events. 
Jack Nicklaus, for example, is in Augusta, Ga, now, honing his game on the Augusta National Golf Club course, site ofthe Masters. Tom Wat­son, the defending champion, and Tom Kite, last year's leading PGA money-winner, will join him later. 

: ND StudentPlayers present : 
: April15-18, 1982 RESERVED SEATING: 
: SJ.OOonepriceonly Ticketsgoonsale : • Monday AprilS • : S.U. Box Office Sfo~!C Programming Office : 
Applications for May and August are now available in the Student A..:tivities Office. NO fee required. 
As aservice to students, the application procedure is mandatory. Thisprocedure will ~liminate any duplication ofservice (and inevitable financial loss for you). Also, having 
all trucks registered enablesouroffice to assist students lookingfor ways to ship their baggage and enablesyou to obtain more customers and access tocampus parking for pick-ups and drop-offs. 
But there's a growing list of top­level performers who prefer the heat of competition in this week's 5300,000 Greater Greensboro Open as their last step on the avenueo Augusta 
"I always play here," veteran Ray Floyd said before a final practice ses­sion on the Forest Oaks Country Club course, site of the old chase that begins a 43rd renewal Thursday. Floyd ranked as one ofthe favorites in the 144-man field chasing a S54,000 first prize. 

Some other leading contenders include PGA champion Larry Nel­son, the defending title-holder here, and a pair ofHall ofFamers who, like Floyd, prefer to play their way into Augusta, Lee Trevino and South African Gary Player. 
Also on hand are 1981 Player of the Year Bill Rogers, Bruce Lietzke and 1982 tournament winners Lan­ny Wadkins, Craig Stadler and Wayne Levi,Jim Simons and Ed Fiori. 
Athletes dance 
By MARY FRANCELL 
Sports Writer 
Ever since Knute Rockne brought in a choreographer to teach his front line how to shift, athletes at Notre Dame have been using dance to im­prove their coordination, agility and strength, on and off the field. 
This year, three athletes will be performing in the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Dance Theater's Spring Con­cert: varsity football player Keith Marrero, fencer Kevin Tindell and lacrosse player Mike Pirkowski. 
In the last ten years, a number of professional athletes, particularly football players, have studied ballet in order to improve their balance and agility. Defensive back Keith Marrero first started taking dance because "I heard that Lynn Swann 

t had taken ballet lessons, and 

figured that if it was good for him it

Deadline for applying is Monday, AprilS. Notification in most cases will be April6. 
would be good for me."

-
Ih~r======================================= 

Thursday, April1, 1982 -page 11
Toda 
Molarity 
Pfi£TTY WIDF.:SPREAD HOW WID£ 5P~f"AV AFIE 
Af.JD lr:.S )JDL70~T IN ':SALARIE:S" IN COLI-fqE 
I)'IS~ETBALL (/\ JL' .·T ill,. 8ASKCTI'>ALL ? 
.:5f't>RT5 E ITHE!\. 1T'S EJ/EN PONE IN A.c.~D£/'-1/C. CIRCL£5 
TH/5/SIW Afl?llll VICJI/OfJ/5TON/3 Of TH/3 POl&NS Of CJJ8AN·5TYteA!lhiY 811~ 813/NG 81JILT IN NICAI?AGUA 70PAY. NOTIC£ 7Ht50V/fJ·S!Yl& lf(II!N­ING Gm.W() IU!TH RIYr1AJJIAN·BIV'£P NICJIIWji}ANS IN f-lJI<TH ft()RfAN-~ 
5NtAK£J<S fXJ/NG CJJ8AN-5TYIC PU5H·UPS 
J 

Simon 
01\... \T'~ YOO lOOK KtO,
GEKEilAL ROEMERI_l~f.RE 1'5 A ~tt:JRT l'E(b:JAl IN 

THE. CA~£ I~ ClO~EO. 
I WON'T ALLOW Tl-lftT
A TRE/IlCH COI'\T HERE 

G-RME. TO B£ fLAYED

\0 ~E YOtl. 

The Daily Crossword 
-+--+~ 

©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 4/1/8~ All Rights Reserved · 
·----.."!..


_,_______,
..........................................................._____....._.. 
~-~~~ 


c--~ It's Your Big Chance Junior Class Night Talent Show Tonight atThe NAZZ 9 -?pm 
Interested in acting, singing... Call Julian 3805 to sign up 
Michael Molinelli 
MJTice, 70(), 7He 5(JVIfJ-51Yte w··
a84N5/UtARIN6 CZECH­
INSP/RaJ Flmfi£5 HAVIN& ,. WNOI WITHCIJEMN·TRAINEP ­
NICAI<A6iJAN51N THI3 BU/..­GAR/AN· BUI/..TM£55 7FJIT. 
/ 

1 ~NOW IT WR':l WELL \1.UN, FUrv, AI\JD A t-116~­
LtGHT Of Ml T06TAL ... \1UT I to~·T l-IKE .,~ '00 IT AIN'T GOINv 1?:> 0C ?LI1Y£D! 

ACROSS 28 Hasten 1 Position 30 Prison 6 Vigor 31 Ancient 9 Great 32 Attects 
distance with a 13 Document noxious gas 14 Melody 34 Astringent 16 -conten-36 Bakery item 
dere 37 Negligent 17 Ulterior one motive 39 Downcast 19 Singing 41 Croaker 
pairs 43 Indigent 20 Seized 44 Color 21 Mexican 45 Embraces 
cowboys 47 Numerical 23 Carve prefix 26 Display 48 Relinquish 
ostenta· 49 Flightless tiously birds 27 Bowling 51 -and alley leathered 
Wednesday's Solution 



Jeb Cashin 


53 Muses 23 Liquid 54 Rebelled running 55 Comb. form over 
tor a 24 Brown's country state: abbr. 56 Kind ot 25 Deceitful agent 26 Groups ot 61 Blissful seven 
place 29 "-the mood 62 Repast tor love" 63 Martini 32 Pup 
item 33 Kind ot 64 Went by silver: 
train abbr. 65 Crafty 35 Bea Arthur 66 Principle role 
38 Diaskeuast DOWN 40 Legal 1 Mineral paper spring 42 Beaten 2 lmposea 46 Play a 
burden guitar 3 Imitate 48 Shrimp­4 Rile 49 Musical 5 Wilt movement 6 Usethe 50 Slaves ot 
garage old 7 Silkworm 52 Broad 8 Nip necktie 9 Rock-53 Wharf 
10 Blutter 54 Depend 11 Unconcerned 57 East Indian 12 Betsy or plant 
Barney 58 Wine: Fr. 15 Kind of 59 Night 
committee before a 18 New York holiday 22 Very tired, 60 Notwork-
to poets ing: abbr. 

Campus 
•12: 
1 5 p.m. -Circus, Royal Uchenstein Sidewalk Circus, Sponsored by Campus Ministry, Student Union, Center for Experiental Learning, South Dining Hall Outside, free 

•12:10 
p.m. -Concert, Billy Taylor, Annenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by Notre Dame Jazz Band, free 

•6:30 
p.m. -Workshop, Women in Manage­ment, Karen Nelson, President's Board Room, LeMans Hall, SMC, Sponsored by Counseling and Career Development Center 

•6:30 
p.m. -Tryouts, Preliminary Cheerleading Tryouts, ACC Pit 

•7 
p.m. -Computer Class, Computer Con­sciousness, Rm. M-115 CCMB 

•7 
p.m. -Lecture, Elizabeth Chaarlton Moore, SMC, Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall, Sponsored by Women's Opportunity Week 

•7 
p.m. -Lecture, Government Policy on the Right to Life, Charles Donovan, Ubrary Auditorium, Sponsored by ND/SMC Right to Ufe 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, Armament/Disarmament: Which Road To Peace?, Bishop Leroy T. Mat­thiesen, Carroll Hall 

•so 
p.m. -Play, The Sly Fox, Washington Hall, Sponsored by St. Ed's Theatre Group 

•8 
p.m. -Senior Recical,Joan Grabowsky, Uttlc Theatre 

•s 
p.m. -Lecture, Parenthood and the Coping with Children through Ad, Mrs. Pilter, President's Board Room, LeMans Hall, Sponsored by SMC Right to Life 

•s 
p.m. -Lecture, Abortion and Adoption in Other Countries, John Thorp, LeMans Hall, Sponsored by SMC Right to Ufe 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, Which Road to Peace, Bishop Matthiesen, SMC Carroll Hall, Sponsored by Campus Ministry 


T.V. Tonight 
Thursday, April I 
7p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9p.m. 
9:30p.m. 
lOp.m. 
!0:30p.m. llp.m. 
11:30p.m. 
12p.m. !2:30p.m. 

·I Wkat rhe'l BhdyRl!d ~Ubi 
• I \\ 10:00-2:00 -i 
1 
l 

Wmct to. Fool A'UUUUL? 
CmtteOK eul fe. SJt. &1t'3 A,ue F~ Vag Pwdyf Speciol ~ flee Kite ­
16 MASH 22 CBS News 28 joker's Wild 34 The MacNeiVLchrcr Repon 16 The Muppet Show 
-I 

22 Family Feud 
I 
l 
! 

28 Tic Tac Dough 
34 Straight Talk 
16 Fame 
22 Magnum P.I. 
28 Police Squad 
34 Sneak Previews 
28 Bosom Buddies 
34 This Old House (Second Show) 16 Diff'rent Strokes 22 Cagney and lacey 28 9105 34 Austin City Umits 16 Gimme a Break 28 Taxi 16 Hill Street Blues 22 Knots Landing 28 20/20 34 Michigan Outdoors 34 Training Dogs the Woodhouse: Way 16 NewsCcnter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 The Dick Cavell Show 16 Tonight Show 22 Quincy/McMillan and Wife 28 ABC News Nightline 34 ABC Captioned News 28 Vegas 16 Late Night with David Lcuerman 
Thursday, April 1, 1982 -page 12
S_~orts 
Blastscollegeathletics 
Cosell praises Digger's honesty 
Editor's Note: The following story with t~lling the truth," said Cosell. read or write simple English, yet he 
ran on the Ganett national wire "Digger's timing was great. His would have been a junior at UCLA. service earlier this week. It was revelation couldn't have come at a (Santa Monica Superior Court prepared by fanner-Observer better time than when max1mum at­justice Charles Woodmanfee) or­
rJlorts writer Frank LaGrotta, now tention is focused on college basket­dered Jackson to take a· remedial with the Rochester Democrat and ball and its 'Final Fraud."' program so that, and I quote from Chronicle. "Digger wasn't ruining the party," the Los Angeles Times, 'jackson's in­Cosell added. "He was telling the ability to read and write would By FRANK LaGROTIA truth, a process Packer is somewhat never again embarrass him. Special to The Observer unfamiliar with." And the truth, said Cosell, must be "After something like that," Cosell 
Digger Phelps caused quite a stir told. "The stories of corruption in said, "how can anyone claim that the at last weekend's Final Four in New big-time college athletics are too primary concern of a college ath­Orleans when he gave reporters numerous to count and sometimes letic program is educating its ath­specific examples of the cheating too frightening to mention," said letes?" and corruption that have effected Cosell. "Clemson, college football's Cosell also pointed a finger at 
major college athletics. The charges own national champion, is being in­former UCLA basketball coach John by Notre Dame's basketball coach vestigated and is likely to be placed Wooden. 
have called to question the very in­on probation for recruiting viola-"Do you really believe that a tegrity ofintercollegiate sports. 
young man named Lewis Alcindor But Howard Cosell has no ques­(now Kareem Abdul Jabbar) left his tions. home in New York City and travel "Big-time college athletics is 3,000 miles to play basketball at garbage and it should be abolished," UCLA just because he loved john -~.id the ABC sportscaster by Wooden?," asked Cosell. "If you do, telephone from Los Angeles Monday then you must also believe that night. "I've dedicated my life to the UCLA won all those national cham­
destruction qf big-time college pionships for no other reason than sports because it is a tragedy, a blot because Wooden was a brilliant on the conscience of this nation. coach. 
"The essence of sports is "They won those utles with a supposed to be fun," Cosell added. program the National Collegeiate "What's fun about adolescent ath­Athletic Association has placed on letes being exploited by colleges for probation for being tainted," added multi-million-dollar profits? What's Cosell. "I used to have some respect fun about coaches who are cheating · for UCLA, but no more." because they will be fired if they The University of Michigan was don't win? another object ofCosell's anger. 
"IfI want to see a real college foot­"At Michigan the athletic program ball game, I'll go see Bowdoin play is a seperate corporation. (Michigan Bates or Amherst play Williams. The tions. UCLA, that legendary institu­Athletic Director) Don Canham is an game is still pure at these schools. tion where 10 national basketball honest man and he admits it, but he The dollar sign hasn't destroyed the titles were earned in 12 seasons, is won't admit that it's right. Michi­spirit ofcompetition." on probation for cheating. Boston gan's athletic department made 
• Although ABC makes a sizable College, a quarterfinalist in the something close to Ill 0 million profit from televising college foot­NCAA tournament, had a former profit last year, but they still are bad­ball games, Cosell does not see this player (Rick Kuhn) sentenced to l 0 ly in need of more dormitory space. commentary on college sports as years in prison for fixing games. "What, I ask you, is the sense of 
INDIANAPOUS (AP) -Former "To be very, very honest, I wasn'tbeing critical ofhis employer. "How many scandals can college college athletics if such travesties world light heavyweight champion sure ifI'd be financially interested to
"That is not the issue here," said athletics endure?" are allowed to exist?" 
Marvin Johnson will return to the continue in boxing," said Johnson,Cosell. "The issue here is the Cosell cited the case of former Cosell, who claims he is ring on Tuesday after an absence of who held both the World Boxinghypocrisy of college sports. Neither UCLA football player Billy DonJack­"criticized more than Nixon," just more than a year, the Indianaolis Council and World Boxing Associa­ABC, CBS or NBC is doing the son as further proofofthe hypocricy because he tells the truth in matters boxer announced last night. tion titles at different points of hiscorrupting. The fault lies with the which has infected college sports. such as this, believes there is no Johnson will fight Darnell Hays of career and lost each in his first titlecolleges." Jackson, who withdrew from UCLA solution to the problems facing col­Columbus, Ohio, in the feature defense.
He disagreed with Phelps' critics, in 1980, was convicted of voluntary lege athletics. 
match seven-fight Johnson, who will be 28 on April
such as CBS announcer Billy Packer, manslaughter on March 26 in the "College athletics should be of a program scheduled for Tuesday, at the Dan­12, won't get rich for his workwho implied that Digger picked the stabbing death of Mar!• Bernolak. eliminated totally," said Cosell ville Civic Center in Illinois. It will against Hays. 
wrong time to tel(htshorror stories. Jackson was not able to pass a simple adamantly. "I think Digger Phelps be his first fight since he was a "He'll get Sl,OOO for the fight,""Billy Packer is a shameless shill literacy test required by the court. was right in telling the truth. More fourth-round knockout victim of said Douglas Amonson, who is help­who is more concerned-with spoil­"Can you believe that?." said and more thoughtful people in this Michael Spinks in Atlantic City, N.J., ing with the promotion aimed at ing the fun of the tournament than Cosell. "Billy Don Jackson cannot country want to hear the truth." 
on March 28, 1981. raising funds to support minor league baseball in the Illinois city. "It's probably the smallest pay check
-<Jffensive line 
ofMarvin's career." Amonson and Johnson both said the match could start the fighter
Shiner, Thayer return to positions 
toward another title bout -possib­
ly against current WBC championBy DAPHNE BAILLE anywhere I can start," he explains. "I switch takes advantage of Thayer's what short ofoutstanding. Dwight Braxton. Sports Writer just want to win." strength and Shiner's quickness. "As an offensive line, we didn't 
Offensive line coaches Jim Hig­"We decided to move them back play well," confesses the 6-5, 280-Johnson, formerly managed by Switching positions is often a gins and Carl Selmer suggested the bacause their talents are best suited pounder. "When it came down to Peltz Boxing Promotions, Inc. of tremendous learning process, but swiitch in order to implement the to those positions, explains Selmer. fourth and one, we worried too Philadelphia, no longer has a manager.
for a couple ofoffensive linemen, it's line's new quick side/strong side "Sometimes a player that is very much about technique when we going to be old hat. blocking scheme. This calls for a capable in one position may turn out should have just creamed the guy in "I have no type of managerial agreement. It's not because of any
This spring; seniors-to-be Mike strong guard and tackle on the tight to be outstanding in another." front of us." 
type of dissatifaction with the
Shiner and Tom Thayer get to go end side and a quick guard and Thayer would be the first to admit "Fourth and one was a definite people in Philadelphia," he said. "I~ck to the spots they_occupied as tackle on the split end side. The the line's play last year was some-problem," agrees Shiner, an All­just f .eel like I would like to do thing
American pick on Football News' 

on my own. I don't feel it was neces­all-junior squad. "We had a lot of
Spring Football '82 sary for me to stay with the people in
breakdowns -it was the same way Philadelphia"

on third and one. We should be able Johnson is remaining with Champ
to move the defense back at least a Chaney as his trainer -an associa­
sophomores. Shiner is now a quick yard. In those situations, hey, we tion that began while he was win­
tackle, and Thayer, a strong guard, should just blow them off the field." ning National Golden Gloves titles
reversing the change made by their "The offensive line has to work as 
a unit," the as an amateur enroute to earning a
coaches a year ago. They accepted continues Sunnyvale, 
bronze medal in the 1972 Munich
that move, but in all honesty are en­Calif. native. "We have to know how Olympics.
thusiastic about "going home." to help each other out. We've got to "I've been training and am in ex­
"Except for last year, I've played be like a machine that rolls over cellent condition," Johnson said. "I
tackle all my life," says Shiner. people." 
was looking for a fight back in
"Being a guard was fun and I enjoyed Thayer remembers earlier days December and I expect this fight
it, but deep down I enjoy playing when just the mention of the Irish with Hays will let me know more astackle more, so I'm glad to go back." front wall was enough to intimidate to what type ofcondition the body is
For Thayer, who came to Notre opponents. "We know we can be as in."
Dame as a centt:r and subsequently good as Notre Dame was in the Johnson takes a 26-5 record intoplayed nose guard, offensive guard past," he says. "We've got some great the fight with 18 knockouts. Haysi~and tackle, it's just one more in a See RETURN, page 9 12-6 with 10 knockouts.
long list of changes. "I'll play 







