
----~--------------------------~­
.SADD-page3
' ' 
VOL. XVII, NO. 51 the indepn1dent .,tudent m·w.,paper .,erving notre tiame and .,aint mary's WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1982 
InAfghanistan 
Salang pass tunnel fire kills 2,700 

ISLAMABAD, Pakistan (AP) -As ing a fiery explosion. roaring blaze destroyed at least many as 2,000 Afghan civilians and Diplomatic accounts said many three military vehicles packed with 700 Soviet soldiers perished in an Af. people remained trapped in Soviet troopers. ghanistan tunnel jammed with buses vehicles, choking to death on He said the convoy was en route and trucks when a fuel truck ex­billowing smoke and fumes. to Kabul from Haratan, a city on the ploded and turned the passageway Guerrilla sources in the Pakistan Oxus river dividing Afghanistan and into a raging inferno, Western border town of Peshawar said the the Soviet Union. diplomatic sources said yesterday. tunnel was jammed with buses and Sharafat, who said his information 
The diplomatic sources and Af. trucks when the lead vehicle of a was based on accounts by refugees ghan rebels said victims burned to Soviet troop convoy smashed head­from the Satang pass, claimed 450 death or asphyxiated after the truck on into the tanker. The resulting in­Soviet soldiers were confirmed dead collided with another vehicle last ferno engulfed at least 30 vehicles, and the toll was expected to rise. week in the 1.7-mile-long Satang including transport buses and Diplomatic sources described pass tunnel in .the Hindu Kush trucks, the sources said. Kabul as a "city in mourning," and mountain range 70 miles north of Mohammad Yaqub Sharafat, a said resentment was growing be­the capital, Kabul. spokesman for the Moslem guerrilla cause the government had not ac­

The diplomats said Soviet troops group Hezb-E-Islami, said the counted for the tragedy. outside the tunnel blocked both ends with tanks because they thought the explosion signaled a rebel attack, and thereby sealed off 
Polish military regime
all means ofescape to the victims. There was no official confirma­tion from Kabul or the Kremlin. The 
vows to deter strikers 
Soviet Union has sent at least 100,000 Soviet troops into Afghanis-WARSAW, Poland (AP) -Com­saying the government was tan since 1979 to help crush a Mos-munist Poland's martial law regime 
determined to ensure peace. "The lem upnsmg against the vowed to crush nationwide protest 
measures will depend on the scale of Moscow-backed government. strikes set for today and declared it 
the disturbances," he said. Guerrillas, who recently have am-will do anything to "ensure peace." 
Although Urban linked the bushed several convoys on the main The government seized under­outcome of today's events to the highway that passes through the tun-ground Solidarity radio transmitters duration of martial law, he also sug­nel, denied any role in the explo-and a printing press yesterday and gested that a weaker showing by sion, whiCh is believed to have was reported putting former union strikers would not slow official occured Nov. 2 or 3. activists into "protective custody" 
pledges to try to lift military rule by Accounts were pieced together or detention for 48 hours. the end ofthis year. from reports by Western diplomats Warsaw appeared calm, however, "If the response is decreasing, in Kabul on information from Af-and official and unofficial sources in 
there will still be conditions for !if­ghans who claimed to witness the several other large Polish cities See POLAND, page 4 disaster and from rebel sources in reported no overt police presence Pakistan. Independent accounts on the eve ofthe protests. were impossible to obtain because "We hope all citizens will under­

Pattern ofnegativism
Afghan authorities sharply restrict stand that respect for law and order foreign reporters. is in the interest of state and The diplomatic sources, who society," government spokesman 


Creative journalism stressed 
refused to be identified by name or Jerzy Urban told a news conference. country, said up to 700 Soviet sol­"If it is necessary, the government By MIKE MAZZOLI and in the Newsroom." He told his writing, there isn't any suggestion of diers were killed and 200 others will use all measures to ensure StaffReporter audience that "a pattern of cooperation, consultation, injured. Estimates of Afghan civilian peace." negativism extends from the class­guidance, or teamwork. casualties ranged from 400 to 2,000, "It is difficult for the authorities to Cooperation, advice, and room to the newsroom" which often Good writing, however, depends they said. anticipate what will happen tomor­guidance should mark the relation­frustrates any attempt at creative upon an atmosphere of improve­Conflicting reports emerged row," Urban said yesterday. "But ship between a reporter and his and effective prose, and may ment, Clark said. An editor should about what exactly happened inside there is no reason to worry too editor in the newsroom, according produce a generation of writers un­foster such an atmosphere in which the tunnel, but the diplomatic and much. We are calm and to Roy Peter Clark. skilled at their task. 
well-written or creative stories are 

rebel accounts agree the disaster determined." But try to tell an editor that. Clark, the associate director ofthe recognized and rewarded, and started when the fuel tanker Urban underlined a warning from Clark spoke last night in his Modern Media Institute in St. should not always insist upon ad­collided with another vehicle, ignit-the Council of Ministers Monday, lecture, "Writing in the Classroom Petersburg, Florida, began his herence to narrow, conventional 
lecture by noting that the "pattern of journalistic guidelines. ! negativism" begins when a child first Clark, whose lecture was 
r 
enters school. "Imagine, if you will," he said, "a Notre Dame Department of f fifth grader misbehaving in class, and American Studies, also answered ; ' 

Before October break sponsored by The Observer and the ' 
conjure the conceivable punish­recent criticism leveled at im­l ments he might receive for that act: aginative news reporting, which has


Assault suspect's carseen on campus 
t

By MARGARET FOSMOE parking area ofthe Angela lot as they near O'Laughlin, she said, "I will he be forced to paint a picture? been tagged "jello journalism" by .. 
t r:'
Saint Mary's Executive Editor walked toward McCandless Hall. As elbowed him in the chest and rolled Or conduct a chemistry experi­several publications. Although the t j 


they went down the steps, the as­ment? He will be forced to write," writer should never forsake the ~~;.l
out." She said the car was traveling at A car similiar to the one involved sailant stepped out and grabbed the approximately 20 miles per hour. Clark said. news, Clark said, ·journalism is by its in an assault last Friday morning at left arm ofthe first victim. She fled to LeMans Hall, where she Generations of children have ex­nature creative, and "the reporter, Saint Mary's was sighted on campus The seized victim said, "As I notified security. perienced writing as a form of on occasion, should be allowed to Oct. 22 by one ofthe victims. screamed and pulled away I saw him The first victim came over to punishment, and will soon approach transcend the common dictates of 
A suspect had not been ap­pull a knife out ofhis pocket." As she LeMans about a halfan hour later for any written assignment with dwin­traditional journalism." A proper prehended as of yesterday, accord­saw the assailant grab her com­questioning by Security. There had dling enthusiasm, said Clark. Ifgood balance between the news and its ing to the St. Joseph County Sheriffs panion, she ran into McCandless been some confusion because the writing is going to be taught at the communication should be 
office. Hall to get help. first victim had run upstairs in elementary level, he said, negative preserved, but if a story would profit 
The victim said she recalled notic­The assailant ordered the second McCandless before she could be connotation must be eliminated; from a creative lead or innovative ing a similar car on the Friday eve­victim to run with him to the car, questioned. children must be encouraged to approach, it should not be forced to ning before October break at where he forced her to crawl in to According to Security Director write, and not punished with fit a more conventional structure. 
approximately 7 or 8 p.m. She said the rider's seat through the driver's Anthony Kovatch, Notre Dame writing. The reporter's duty at all times is the green car, possibly a Dodge side. "He put the knife away as we 
Security and the St. Joseph County If the seeds of poor writing and to collect information, with a con­

Charger, was driven by a black male. got in the car," she said. Sheriffs office :were contacted by that pattern of negativism are sown stant devotion to accuracy, clarity, The suspect in the assault case is Meanwhile, Security was con­Security immediately. in grade school, Clark said, the at­and concern for the reader, Clark decribed as black male, 5-foot-7 to tacted and reported to McCandless "I would roughly say it was 3:20 mosphere of the newsroom and the said. 
5-foot-10 inches in height. to investigate. or 3:25a.m.," he said. quality of reporting will suffer in "I marvel at the reporter who One of the victim recalled that a The victim in the car said the as­The second victim, however, later years. brings the poet's sensibility to a friend with her at the time said, "I sailant drove through the LeMans lot He described the "language of story written under the pressure of
claimed she called the County don't like the looks of that car." and started past O'Laughlin Sheriff later death" which prevails in the the deadline," he said. Such a sen­The two victims, a sophomore Auditorium toward the main gate. newsroom, in which stories are sibility might flourish if the writer
"The security guard wanted to and a junior. said they were return­She said the rider's side door. was wait until morning to call the "cut" or "killed" and are written feels confident that he can experi­ing to campus at approximately 3:1 S locked and she pushed the lock up against a "deadline;" and he added ment and fail "without being pil­
a.m. rriday morning. They noticed with her elbow. that. in a language so hostile to loried by his editor, Clark said. 
See ASSAULT, page 4 the green car parked in the no-As the ca.-slowed at the curve 

~ 
I 
r 


News Brie/§ 
Hy The Ohserl'er and The Associated Press 
Keenan Hall residents began their celebration of the dorm's 25th anniversary last night with a speech by Digger Phelps. The hall will host University President Father Theodore Hesburgh in the Keenan-Stanford Chapel at 10 p.m. tonight. Everyone is invited to attend. Other events for the hall include a 25th Birthday Party this Friday from 9 to 2 a.m. which will featuring a live band. The celebra­tion is open to all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. Men from other dorms are asked to purchase tickets in advance from the Stu­dent Union or from dorm residents. Other events will include a showing "Wake Up The Echoes," Keenan Night at the Nazz, a hall formal on Nov. 19 and the Anniversary mass at 4:30 p.m. on Sunday, Nov. 21, with University officials and hall fellows in attendance. Plans for the burning in effigy of Ellerbe and Associates architect 
have not been finalized. -The Observer 
The percentage ofelderlyAmericanswill 
nearly double by 2050, the year the U.S. population is expected to peak at 309 million, the Census ·Bureau estimates. According to the new study, persons over age 65 will make up more than one-fifth ­
21.7 percent-ofthe population in 2050, up from 11.4 percent in 1981. And the declining birthrate means that there will be a smaller share of people in the working years, 18 to 64, to provide for the elderly through tax or voluntary programs. While there were 5. 4 working age Americans for every one over 65 last year, that ratio is expected to dip to 2.6-to-1 in 2050, according to the study by the bureau'sJohn Long and Greg Spencer. "Two things combined, lower fertility rates and improved life expectancy, will make for a marked change in the relationship ofyounger people to older people," said , Long, "There will have to be provisions made LOr any program, public or private pensions, medical facilities, programs that support the: over 65 population." -AP 
When 80-year-old Bill Schluter was a boy, his mother would give him three square meals a day and put him to bed on time. Nowadays, she still does. Schluter's mother, Appy Kroll, is 1o6. About four years ago, when his wife died, Schluter asked his molher to move back in with him, and now they share happy times ,in their north Spokane home. "I give him three meals a day and put him to bed on time. That's the best I can do," said Mrs. Kroll. She also reads to him and sings along when he plays the piano. "She's a lot ofcom­pany -and she·can cook. Sure, I love having her here," Schluter said Monday. Visitors to their place may find the house warm with the sweet smell ofstewing prunes. Schluter is likely to be playing "When You and I were Young, Maggie" on the piano. If his mother coaxes him, Schluter will bring out his guitar.{lnd harmonica to play her favorite, "Beautiful Texas." "That's the way he used to amuse himself while I was getting dinner, especiallyon Sundays," Mrs. Kroll said. ­
AP I 
A1V repair shop ownerhas been ordered to evict his 10-foot Burmese python, named Snuggles, after police received complaints of missing cats and frightened neighbors. Doug Mead was also told by police to get rid ofGeorge-a 6-foot tree boa-and a 36-inch com snake named Monik. Mead had used the reptilian threesome as watchdogs an attention-getters for his shop, even pos­ting a sign saying the premises were protected by snakes. "I trust them a lot more than I do people," said Mead, 41, of Norton Shores. "People will stab you in the back for a dollar, for a joint (marijuana cigarette). Snakes don't hurt anybody." But Muskegon Heights police Chief Willie Howell, ordering the snake eviction last Friday, said the reptiles had scared Mead's neighbors and caused near-miss accidents because ofgawkers in cars. "It's causing too much distur­bance within the community surrounding the place," said Howell, who cited an ordinance barring the keeping of animals other than 
common pets such as dogs and cats. -AP 
About 400,000 poor,elderly and unemployed families received five pounds of free cheese, but others hoping to get their share of the federal giveaway Monday and Tuesday were left frustrated and empty-handed. In Allen County, where 11,796 blocks of cheese were handed out, at least a thousand poor ami elderly people were turned away without cheese from the government's third cheese giveaway. In Marion County, here 187,000 pounds of cheese was given away, police were called to keep order outside a church when about 200 people in a line learned all the cheese had been distributed. Officials said the crowd became unruly" and began shoving each other, but no one was arrested. "The only problem we've had is that we didn't have enough cheese and we had people that were disappointed that were waiting in lines," said Jean Merritt, executive director of the Indiana Department on Aging and Com­munity Services, which headed the state's distribution effort. "We're planning to do another cheese distribution around Dec. 15. Instead of two million pounds we're going to do four million, plus 800,000 pounds ofbutter," Mrs. Merritt said. Demand exceeding supply was not uncommon. -AP 
A 20 percent chanceofshowers today, gradual clear­ing in the afternoon. High around 60. Fair tonight. Low in the mid and upper 40s. Partly sunny tomorrow and pleasant. High in the mid 60s. -AP 
Wednesday, November 10, 1982-page 2 

Easing the grip 
The Observer published a letter last week that Dean of Students James Roemer sent to alcohol distributors in the South Bend area, urging them not to deliver beer to student off-campus residents. Roemer's reasoning in sending such a letter was based on his fears that alcohol abuse has become a pressing problem. 
I could only laugh at the letter at first: How can he expect a beer distributor to turn away business like that, especially when students can easily get their al­cohol elsewhere? Fat chance. After thinking about it for a while, however, I realized that the lettershould not be a surprise to anyone; the letter was consistent with the University's policy toward alcohol use, and a move to control off-campus alcohol use seemed like the next possible step. 
Roemer's concern about alcohol use has always been apparent. He has, on more than one occasion, men­tioned alcohol as the top problem among college stu­dents. I do not deny the seriousness of alcohol abuse, nor do I question the beliefthat alcohol abuse is a rapid­ly growing problem on college campuses. I do believe, however, that all the talk at Notre Dame has only5erved to magnify a situation on campus which does not exist 
in the proportions Roemer  or  others  seem  to be  
expressing. The situation  ~  
can be compared to the mot­ 
her who fears that all the  
'horrible things she: hears in  
the news will happen to her  
children and, consequently,  
imposes all kinds of restric­ 
tions to make sure these 1  
things don't happen to her  
children. All this discussion  
has created a fear of some­ 
thing which is not a big  
problem.  
Roemer is justifiably  
afraid of the destructiveness  
ofalcohol abuse on campus.  
He has taken the steps he  
feels are necessary to insure  
that the problem never  
reaches the proportions it  
has on other campuses. One  

only has to look at the statistics which show the number of people who die in drunk driving accidents each year to realize Roemer's fear. The University should be on the alert to make sure that alcohol abuse never becomes a campus problem. 
I believe, however, that the means being used to achieve the desired goal are out of place, and could be achieving the opposite goaL 
Drinking in any amount has become the center of attention at Notre Dame. With all ·the restrictions governing the use ofalcohol on campus, it has become almost impossible for one to drink socially without feeling uncomfortable. One can certainly not deny that students drink, but is it necessary to view the issue as an evil which only occurs behind closed doors? Why is it that a group of young adults are forced to drink like teenagers, who drink in clandestine places to hide from their parents? Creating an atmosphere where drinking is looked upon as a serious character fault is just as dan­gerous as an atmosphere where there really is a problem. Students who drink infrequer-tly or moderate-Iy should not be made to feel as ifthey have a drinking problem. 

As a result ofall this tension, more and more students who would like to drink in a relaxed place will go to the residences oftheir off-c<!mpus friends. Ifstudents could drink and socialize in a comtoatable atmosphere, maybe fewer students would leave campus. In looking at the number of accidents that have happened to students who have left campus, one would have to agree that it is necessary to provide students with an atmosphere where moderate drinking won't have to be swept under 
aru~ • Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are more intel­ligent and responsible than they're given credit for. 
With all the hand-holding and regulations that govern the way we live, study and socialize, I wonder under what qualifications were we accepted. I'd like to think that our records did a little more than hint at a sense of self-discipline and respon­sibility. Roemer's letter is an insult to off-campus stu­dents, whose responsibility 
has been called into ques­tion. 
I have not suggested a to­tal abandonment of rules; rules have their place, espe­cially in cases where certain people aren't responsiblt: enough to live by them. I would argue, however, that if these rules did not exist, student's lives would change very little. I have repeatedly heard from ad­ministrators how mature and responsible the average student is here. The policies made, however, seem to be 
geared for a different type of student, a student that needs many rules to keep him from doing things that are wrong and damaging to himself. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students need to be treated more maturely than they are now. More atten­tion needs to be given to how we have proven ou t r­selves, not to how we might fall on our faces ifsomeone doesn't hold our hand. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are -the views of the author, and do not necessarily represent the views of The Observer or its editorial board. 


The Observer Design Editor........................... Kay Holland Design Assistant ............................ Alan Bell Layout Staff....................... Brigette Goulet Typesetters ............................. Bruce Oakley Toni Rutherford News Editor ...................... : ........... Vic Sciulli Copy Editor ............................ Greg Swiercz Features Layout................... )ot: Musemeci Editorials Layout... ............. )oe Musemeci Sports Copy Editor.............. Mike Riccardi Typist ....................................... Mary Torchia Ad Design ....................................... Paul Slota Photographer ................. Lucian Niemeyer Guest Appearances ..... The Random T&A Editor. Executive Meetings, a VERY welcome backrub  
The Observer !USPS 598 9201 •s published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays except dunng exam and vacat1on peroods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Oa'l"le and Sa1n1 Marys Cot· lege Subscnpttons 'l"lay be purchased for $25 per year iS 15 per se'l"lester) by wrtllng The Observer P 0 Box 0 "'otre Da'l"le lnd•ana 46556 The Observer 1s a 'l"lember of The Associated Press All reproductton nghts are reserved Second ctass postage pa1d at Notre Oa'l"le lndtana 46556  

~--Rh;d;;F~~ds-;,;k;~---1 
l ...........~.......~.........,......,......,............,.....__--.~ .......................~..............~~........­
~  Bratwurst-1 0 lb. Box­ $19.50  \  
~  Hot Oogs-1 0 lb. Box-$12.50  ~  
~  Hamburgers-121b. Box -$17.50  ~  
~  MEATS FOR YOUR PARTIES  \  
~  234-1021  ~  

ATTENTION: c asses welcome ARTS &LETTERS STUDENTS 
Seeking EMPLOYMENT after graduation 
.ATTEND THE PRESENTATION OF 
PROOORAND GAMBLE 
featurmg its 
CUSTOMERS·SERVICES OPERATIONS lUES·, NOV· 9 7pm ll4Hayes·Healy 
*Learn about OPPORTUNITIES in the BUSINESS for the ARTS &LETTERS GRAD· 
1 
The Observer Wednesday, November 10, 1982 -page 3 
1 



Lo8an Center provides prtceless experience 
By MARY EILEEN KENNEY Services provides the handicapped StaffReporter with protection and support. Acording to Raine, "federal law For over 30 years, the Logan Cen· mandates that school districts ter has provided priceless ex­provide services for disabled school­periences and memories for age children and adolescents. Be­disabled children, adults and volun· cause ofthis, Logan Center does not teers, while offering a variety of serve this group except through the services for infants, pre-school Recreational Programs during after 
children and adults. school hours." 
Bonnie Raine, director ofprogram On Saturday mornings, Notre services at Logan Center, said th~ Dame and Saint Mary's students Department of Mental Health volunteer their time to run activities screens prospective patients to for the disabled patients of Logan determine whether or not they Center and for disabled school-age 
qualify for services. Raine added that children and adolescents of the those who qualify for Logan Center's community. services suffer from mental retarda· The students who volunteer find tion, cerebral palsy, epilepsy, their experiences very valuable. 
autism, or similar disabilities. Mary Decker, a co-coordinator of A group of parents began Logan the Saturday morning program, finds 
Center in 1950. During its incep· "volunteering at Logan Center to be tion, the institution was funded by very rewarding." Decker added that tuition and the United Way. she enjoys helping others in a warm, 
Raine noted that today two-thirds
Carol Cizauskas, a representative for Students casual atmosphere, and she cited the of Logan Center's revenues are
Against Drunk Driving (SADD) requested funds Bowling Program on Friday after­provided by state and federal funds.
to pay for the costs ofseveralprojects at last eve-noons to be a fun way to extend a The Indiana Department of Mental caring heart. Health acts as a "subcontractor" by Freshman Mark Krebs explained
Who will succeed? purchasing services for the patients that the Saturday morning song fests ofLogan Center. The remaining one· and arts and crafts hour are the high­third is contributed by the local lights of many disabled people's community and government and by week. According to Krebs, "the
Brezhnev 's health poses threat 
private benefactors. people have such a good time, and WASHINGTON (AP) -Soviet he comes back ac a lower level of plexities ofgovernment are decreas· Logan Center offers many they look foward to it so much." President Leonid I. Brezhnev, 76 energy," said one U.S. official who ing over time." programs. The major Day Services 
Tom McLaughlin, a sophomore, next month, is in such poor health monitors Kremlin developments. include the home start program for 
agreed with Krebs, adding that "it he remains in office only as a symbol "He's able to cope, and it's clear infants and pre-schoolers, the adultBut he said the Kremlin decided it 
was preferable to keep Brezhnev in really gave me a different 
while potential successors set that he may go on for a number of rehabilitation program for the perspective oflife." 
policies and jockey for power, years still," the official said. "But his office than have an open fight over severely handicapped, the Logan In· 
Mclaughlin has found Saturdayaccording to U.S. intelligence es­abilities to manage all the com-succession. dustries sheltered workshops for 
mornings at Logan Center "to be a 

timates. adults and the residential program good chance to see how fortunate I 
Brezhnev may go on for a number for handicapped adults. 
am and to learn the value ofthe giftsof years, but his abilities to manage In addition to the major Day 
God has given me." 

the complexities ofgovernment are Services, Logan Center also runs the
SADDpetitions .HPC 
Recreational Services, the McLaughlin believes that the most
steadily eroding, in the view of American experts. They emphasize, Protective Services, and the Com· important realization of Logan howeve.r, that the Soviet decision­munity Outreach Program which volunteers is that even though

forprojectfunds· 
making process is able to function provides social workers for those disabled people don't possess the informal powersharing disabled people who do same physical abilities, they possess
through an By DAVE TRACY not par·
on Thanksgiving night. The featured 
arrangement. News Staff ticipate in day programs. The the same inherent qualities of the 
films will include the antics ofAbbot 
"I don't see any sign at all of Recreational Services division runs heart. The Logan volunteers enjoy
A representative of the Students and Costello, the Little Rascals, Mr. 
sharing with the disabled, for they

paralysis," said one ofthese officials, the Special Olympics and conducts
Against Drunk Driving coalition Magoo, Laurel and Hardy, Woody
who asked not to be quoted by leisure time and therapeutic ac· give to the volunteers as much as the 
(SADD) petitioned the Hall Presi· Woodpecker, W.C. Fields and the 
name. tivities at the Center. Protective volunteers give to them. 
dents Council for funds last night at Three Stooges. Admission is free. 
Three men near the top of the 

the HPC's weekly meeting. HPC President Mike McAuliffe ..+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++"'
hierarchy have been identified by 
"The Students Against Drunk asked that the names of the halls' • Anyone Interested :
experts as possible successors to the Driving'spurposeistoaddanaware-football and soccer all-stars be 
.·.·n Be•"ng Part of the :
ailing Brezhnev. They are Yuri ness to students regarding drinking turned in after the playoffs. There Andropov, former head of the KGB, and driving," according to Carol will be two all-:stars named from + 983 MARDI GRAS +the secret police; Konstantin Cher­
Cizauskas, representative for SADD. each team. : 1 +nenko, the failing leader's closest as­
President Reagan has declared the Keenan's President Brian Callag· + +sociate in recent years; and Victor 
Grishin, head of the Communist 
~~knk ~~~~~~g ~::t~: w~~~~ ~~~hs:~~i~~~s~1 ;;!~ ~~:~~a~p~1~ : HEAD COMMITTEE : 
party in Moscow. 
SADD hopes to publish a newsletter to the entire campus this Friday. The •• :A fourth leading contender, 
and place ads in The Observer to band, Arion, will. be supplying the +
Andrei Kirilenko, 76, is himself in 
publicize the event. The HPC funds music for the event. There are a total : + poor health and no longer con­will go toward covering the costs of of 280 tickets available at the Stu· + +sidered in the running. Intelligence these projects. dent Union. + + sources say Kirilenko will be 
Pangborn president John Gallag· St. Ed's centennial will occur next + +dropped from the ruling Politburo 
her announced there will be a com-week, but festivities will be limited + +when it meets Nov. 15 and also edV moViP m~r,.thon in rhautauqua tO Within the hall. • . •• 
taken offtop defense committees. • •
• 
"Brezhnev keeps going up and 

. Sa . -, :Please Call Andy at 1073 •
down, but each time he comes back 
Prospecttve tnt fWhary s L~.~tu~~~j 

Beaux Arts 
RA 's to meet tonz~r t

Ball clue 
By MARY ANN McMORROW RAs must attend weekly meetings News Staff and take a class in interpersonal rela· tions. But accordling to Holy Cross

found here 
Sophomores and juniors in· RA Tracey Perry, the hard work pays 
The Beaux Arts Ball tickets and a terested in being resident assistants off. case of cheap beer have yet to be at Saint Mary's next year should at· "Being an RA is a great way to found. Clues to their location will tend mandatory meetings tonight meet people. You become more self· 
appear in The Observer each day this and tomorrow in the Regina North confident by bei111g placed in situa­week. The affair will be held Friday lounge, according to Sister Karol tions where you have to be the evening, November 12 from 9 p.m. Jackowski, director of student leader." Perry believes that her main to 2 a.m. in the Architecture Build· housing. goal as an RA is to make the mem­ing. All costumes are expected to be Applications only can be obtained bers ofher section happy and to give in "B~d Taste." Tasteless individuals at these meetings and must be them a sense ofpride about living in need not apply. The event will be returned by Nov. 30. HolyCross. held in "Bad Taste." Tickets are S4 According to Jackowski, can· "I really enjoy the challenge and and will be sold in the dining halls didates must have a minimum grade responsibility of seeing their social, and at the door. The bands, The point average of 2.3. Prospective intellectual, and spiritual develop· 
~~}i:~:W/W#t$}.;~~

Ihe Obser:ver _ Attention 


Saint Mary's Students: 
You can buy Observer classified Ads at the Saint Mary1sObserver office 
{located in Regina South 
Kinetics and The Rooms, will play at RAs must be good listeners and ment,"said Lisa Madlinger, a Regina -basement)~
least all night. leaders and must be willing to spend RA. "They provide me with energy a great deal of time planning because as freshmen, they're very Father Sorin once made a gift programs and activities. responsive and anxious to build a 
I 
Mon .. Fri Noon .. 3pm
With this students' spirits did lift The application process·includes community." But some think it Bad Taste obtaining three recommendations, Any Saint Mary's student who To herefind people not chaste writing an essay on reasons for wan· wants further information may talk Phone 284-5365 To see itallfrom the beer letyour ting to be an RA and taking part in to her RA or residence director or 
eyes drift. various types ofinterviews. contact Sister Karol. a
~~". ;o~··¥MtwJ!i;4,~. ~ ··.&#,w/ff#.@'?#@?..Mii ~1iml1iml1imG!~~~~~~~~~ 
The Observer 
ND receives $60,000 award from bank 
By MIKE KRISKO of faculty, students, and the reputa­
tion of the academic and research programs appear to be the major The University of Notre Dame, 
News Staff 
contributing factors to the univer­along with 50 other colleges and sity's selection," he said. universities nationwide, has been Sandman reflected on the growth selected to receive a Chemical Bank 
of Notre Dame's credibility in the 
Higher Education Grant. according corporate community when asked to Donald C. Platten, Chairman of about the universtiy's fund raising the nation's sixth largest bank. policy. 
Marian Stern, director of cor­
"We (Notre Dame) have a porate contributions for the New 
development office of about nine York bank, indicated that t::i60,000 
professionals who constantly seek has been committed to 51 univer­
funds from alumni, parents and sities across the country. friends. My division (ofthe develop­
"Notre Dame was awarded a total ment office) seeks funds from of $60,000 to be received as private foundations and corpora­$20,000 installments over three tions. In one campaign, 12 out ofthe years," she said. country's top 14 companies, (from 
Fortune magazine's ranking of the 
'One ofthe reasons why top 500 companies), made con­tributions to Notre Dame," said Sandman.


companiesareparticularly 
"During the most recent cam­paign, approximately 1,900 com­


interested in supporting 
panies gave over 519 million to the university," he said.

N.D. is the quality of 
"One of the reasons why com­panies are particularly interested in 


This Friday
the students. ' 
supporting N.D. is the quality of the "Since the gift was given without students," said Sandman. "A good restriction, the officers of the uni­
number ofour students take jobs in 

Seniors to kick offblock partyin ACC 
business and do very well. This is By PETER CIOTTA party which the seniors will enjoy party include South Bend Mayorversity will determine its use," said evidenced by the fact that we have a News Staff and which will be a great time for Roger Parent and Father TheodoreJoseph Sandman, director offounda­
large number of companies that everyone," Mai explained. A picnic Hesburgh, University president
tion and corporate relations at Notre 

recruit on campus, which is much larger than you would expect for Kicking off their last home foot­style meal serving steaks, hotdogs, Faculty members and neighborhood Dame. 
"The most significant thing about 

our size." ball weekend, the class of 1.983 will hamburgers, beer and soft drinks families will also join the seniors.
the grant is that it reflects the judge­ment of the Chemical Bank officers The fact that the gift from the host the second annual "Block will be available for a small fee. According to senior class officials, Party" for both the Notre Dame and
that N.D. is regarded among the best Chemical Bank was unsolicited sup­this event is intended to begin a 
In the past, the Senior Death 
universities in the country," said ports Sandman's statements, but Northeast neighborhood com­weekend offestivities that will mark 
March traditionally took place on
munities Friday. the eve of the final home footballSandman. reveals something about the Chemi­the seniors last home football 
The criteria determining which cal Bank's priorities. Mr. Platten said, Calling it a "big senior party," weekend. Class President Mark Mai expects an 
game. Negative reactions voiced by"The bank believes that it is itsuniversities would receive grants Another event will be the greenboth University and South Bend
excellent turnout for this event

weren't revealed, but Stern indi­responsibility, and in its sharehol­
community officials about this and gold "cards" that the senior sec·
which will last from 3:30 to 6:30

cated that grant were awarded to der's best interest, to work to 
tion will hold up once again during major national universities that con­strengthen our country's system of 
p.m. in the ACC Fieldhouse. drunken parade caused the change to a Block Party. the game on Saturday -this time in
One of the features of the party is

tribute significant educational and private higher education." 
a different pattern -that ofa I. The
live music -two bands playing rock

research programs, to private liberal When asked about the future of Local bars have agreed to close last time this display was experi·
and bluegrass will entertain block

arts colleges in the Northeast, and to the program, Stern said evaluation of from 6 to 8 p.m. in an effort to dis­mented in the shape of an NO,
party-goers. Clowns and balloons

private colleges and universities the general funding and the in­courage any would-be marchers. 
according to Senior Class officer Pat·
along with open skat~ng also have
dividual universities will be an on­located in the New York ty Cooney, it was successful.

been slated to entertain the neigh­Featured guests to appear at the 
metropolitan region. going process over the three-year borhood children attending.
"The criteria mainly dealt with segment of the program, and deci· "Our main objective is to throw a
quality,"said Sandman. "The quality sions will be made accordingly. 
• • •Poland 
dependem ofCommunisr Party con­

continuedfrom page I 
trol. Solidarity was suspended when ring martial law," Urban said. "If martial law was imposed Dec. 13. 
there are disturbances on a larger Polish authorities agreed Monday scale, we will have to wait with lif­that Pope John Paul II could visit h1s ting martial law until it is calm and native Poland in june. Poland's stare peaceful in the country." media said permission for the visit 
Urban's statement crowned a indicated both the authorities and campaign of threats, promises and the Roman Catholic Church ex­warnings in the days leading up to pected the nation to be calm by today, when fugitive Solidarity 
then. leaders had called for eight-hour The authorities may have calc­strikes followed by nationwide ulated the papal visit would help street marches to protest the them maintain calm, and the an­
outla~ing ofSolidarity Oct. 8. nouncement was seen here as an ef­ToCl'ay is the second anniversary fort to defuse today's protests as well ofthe legal registration ofSolidarity, as demonstrations planned by 
the first union in the Soviet bloc in-Solidarity beginning Dec. 13. 



,Assault
' ' 
Security received notification at

continuedfrom page I 
1:41 a.m. from a night desk director police," she said. She said he wanted 
concerning student reports of a to be able to give the police com­car being slowly
green driven plete information. 
around campus.The victim could not ap­
The LeMans and McCandless lots proximate the time she called. 
were checked by Security, but the A spokesperson for the Sheriff's 
car was not found. There is specula­office said the call was logged at 5:15 tion that the assailant left campus for 

a.m. 
a short time and returned later. 

n.e second victim said she asked 
"l don't blame Security at all (for a detective at the Sheriff's office on 
nor preventing the incident) .. .I 

Monday whether her. call was only 
don't think Security could have one received and she was told "yes." 
caught him," the second victim said. 

The two women said while being The other victim said she would
PERFORMING ARTS SERIES 
questioned in the LeMans Lobby, 
like other students ro "take ad­stuj~nts they
O'Laughlin Auditorium several nearby said vantage of what Security has to of­
recalled seeing a man fitting the as­
Saint Mary's College fer." 
sailant's decription earlier that night Both victims emphas1zed that
Wednesday, November 10, 1982 8:00 PM at Corby's Tavern, at 1026 Corby ~tudents should utilize the phone
Blvd. located in the McCandless lor for es­
The victims denied rumors that
General Admission $4.00 Tickets 
the man cort service at night.
had followed them home

$2.00 284~4626
Students 

that morning. They said they had not "We could have taken advantage noticed anyone following them. 
of that," they said. 


perished in a morning fire. Mrs. Smith is from 
Whistler, Ala. Forty three persons were also 
injured. (AP Photo) 








Editorials 
Wednesday, November 10, 1982-page 5 

A basic manifestation of the importance of the athletic department to the student body at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's can be wit­nessed everyday as you open to the back sec­tions of your daily Observer. Our campus newspaper, which is the main source ofdaily information for most of the ND-SMC student body, is usually comprised of approximately 35-40 percent sports stories. Indeed, the sports section (and the comics) seem to be the only segment(s) of the paper that a sizeable majority ofthe studentsactually read. 
Robert lloyd Snyder 
1hen Mid-Week 

There are other signs· that reveal the un­usually increased importance that the Notre Dame community places upon sports. There are the forty-five minute waits for court time at the Rock in basketball, or the huge crowds that Coaches Faust and Phelps regularly at­tract to their dormitory appearances. There cannot really be any argument that the most prevalent single discussion topic at Notre 
It isn't finals week. It isn't the bitter South Bend winters. No, it isn't even the abnormal social condition. The most trying experience at Notre Dame (besides attempting to digest ND Foodservice delicacies) is advanced registration. 

Diane Dirkers 
Campus Quips 

When is registration? Good question. I usually don't know until I overhear someone in the dining hall saying that he got the last checkmark in the only section ofa course I've tried to sign up for in each of the last three semesters. 
By the way, since the Registrar hasn't bot­hered to tell all of us yet, advanced registra­tion starts this week. 
Registration information is a collector's item on many parts ofthe campus. I've always 
The Observer welcomes syndicated columnist Max Lerner to its editorial pages. Lerner holds the ~ Harold and Martha Welch chair in the American Studies depart­ment ofNotre Dame. 
The ashes of George Orwell stir uneasily and his shades are listening for the auguries of 1984 whose coming tyranny he described. Yet prescient as Orwell was, the tyranny is not here. 


Max Lerner • 
On and Off 

In .America, the biennial ritual of electoral choice has left the public mind bruised but exhilarated. It was no zero--sum game, with ex­ultant winners and embittered losers, but curiously a trade-off in which both parties felt relieved ifnot satisfied. 
On athletes and athletics 
Dame is the standing of the various sports 
teams. 

Probably the readily explainable cause for 
the ND sports phenonmenon is the fact that 
the a great part of the Notre Dame student 
body have experienced highly athletic back­
grounds. Notre Dame is a university fairly 
unique in the respect that here we have for­
mer All-State or All-City high school athletc:s 
who were simply. not good enough to play 
major collegiate athletics at Notre Dame for 
one reason or another. 

It is extremely frustrating to a former ath­lete to merely "sit and watch" when the old competitive juices start flowing during the middle of a game. I have come to realize this during this past fall. Fortunately for me, I was able to make such a transition more: 
"gracefully" than many of my best friends whom I have observed for several years now at Notre Dame. Many of these former "star" · athletes still sit in front of television sets during Notre Dame football and basketball games, disbelieving that their athletic prowess could be inferior to the gold­
helmeted athletes on the screen. 
The frustration of having a spectator's role 
as their only outlet for their competitive spirit 

Rigors of pre-registration 
found it interesting how all of my friends off­campus will have their marksense forms by Thursday, while we in Lyons wonder if the Registrar has chosen to ignore us. Maybe they figure if we can't pre-register, we won't come back. Or, perhaps, it's because Lyons is in a different zip code than Campus View. (But 
does it matter that the Administration Build­ing is only a five minute walk away?) 
Finding out how to go about signing up for courses and -more importantly -which ones to take, is enough training to make any of us an investigative reporter. Small clues ­such as seeing 10 people lining up outside the finance office with fully completed marksense forms -lead us to believe that, not only is it advanced registration time, but it's the last day. 
Eventually, the first obstacle is surpassed ­we discover that it's time to pull out our num­ber two pencils and register. Step No. 2: Checkmark time. 
At 8 a.m., it's time for all students to line up 
1984: the four fears 
Yet what Ronald Reagan continues to face, 
and what will face whoever is elected in 1984, 
is a set of major fears that go with the territory 
ofAmerican democracy. 
The economic fear is foremost. Americans 
are worried about the long-term question of 
declining productivity and the fading of 
America's competitive position in the world 
economy. But it is an abstract anxiety. It 
doesn't become an immediate fear until it is 
translated into the daily life terms ofhe job the 
job holders, the jobless, the consumers. At 
that point it becomes a political reality. 
Reagan's economists are hoping that the business cycle will swing back by November 1984, cutting the 10 percent unemployment to 7 percent or even to 6 percent. If that doesn't happen, no Republican, whether Reagan or George Bush or jack Kemp, will stand much chance. 
The question is how intractable the busi­ness cycle and the economy are. The Democrats, who have come back t from the like groupies outside the department offices, anticipating the arrival of the department secretary -who probably enjoys registration week as much as students do. The long wait in the queue is intensified by basic registration fears: Will the class be filled up by time I get there? Do I have priority? Those unanswered 
questions make registration time as thrilling as camping overnight for Rolling Stones tick­ets or holding a ticket to the Illinois lottery. 
Unfortunately, by the time we discover if we are the lucky winners or not, the other class we had planned on checkmarking has al­ready been filled. The worst feeling is to wait in line for an hour, only to find out that the time was wasted -"I'm sorry, ma'am, but 486-78-2961 just isn't the right number to get into Finance 360-05." 
Priorities are a secret. Just what makes your 
I.D. number better or worse than anyone else's is a phenomenon that isn't divulged un­til after you've waited in line. (Or better yet, in january.) Maybe if the departmental offices 
dead to a world of new political promise, are working hard on an economic strategy that will grapple with the structural changes ofthe past decades. It means abandoning the naive reliance on subsidies, entitlements and public works, and finding a new mix. 
The Reagan economists will have to modify 
supply-side and austerity economics and find 
a mix of their own. Neither group is likely to 
succeed by 1984, but the penalty for failure by 
the administration will be harsher. 
The Social Security fear will continue until the system is restructured. That is unlikely to have happened by 1984. The best approach will be a bipartisan commission, to exclude party politics. But the political reality is that the Democrats won't give up a heaven-sent issue they can use against Reagan with the 
aging population. 

The crime fear is the most traumatic ofour time. In day-to-day terms it will continue, no matter what happens to the business cycle or to Social Security. 
often leads from constructive criticism concerning a certain athlete's play to an attack on the overall athletic ability of that athlete. Unfortunately, these people do not realize that their tone and/or ferocity oftheir attacks are the reason their friends leave the room in 
the middle of a game. The combination of jealousy and envy, when combined with a frustrated competitive spirit, is not a pretty sight. 
I also keep in mind that these athletes are generally trying their hardest in the face of great pressures and competition, something that people who have not played Varsity ath­letics at Notre Dame cannot possibly, and probably never will understand. 
Notre Dame athletes are generally assumed to be smarter than the athletes of other schools -"our jocks are smarter than your jocks ..." -but they are widely assumed to be less intelligent than the remainder of the student body. Of course, the john Krimms, Kevin Griffiths and John Paxsons of this Uni­versity are exceptions to the rule; yet, in the back of most students' minds, there is an un­said phase which is only uttered in selected company -"yeah, but they're white ..." How would we explain the Rod Bones and the Dave Duersons ofthis campus? 
The love-hate relationship that the students have for the Varsity athletes of Notre Dame is very complex; we love them when they win, we hate them when they take pride in their accomplishments. We hate them when they lose, but we like them when they befriend and associate with us. We hate them through our envy, but love them through our admiration 
Perhaps we could all take a lesson from Father Hesburgh, the University President of the most prestigious football school in the na­tion; a University President who mainly cares about a spotlessly honest athletic program and the respectability of the Notre Dame ath­letic tradition; and a University President who seems a breath offresh air in the N.C.A-A. as he has re-emphasized the student (and person) in the phrasestudent-atblete. 
The remark attributed to the President of the University of Oklahoma -"let's build a University the football team can be proud of' -rings as a sick joke to the disproportionate emphasis we put on sports. Let's n:-evaluate the relationship of the athletes and and stu­dents at Notre Dame; we are all Notre Dame students, and that is what we are all primarily here for. 
set reasonable and objective priority systems 
for different classes, and let us know 
beforehand, checkmarking wouldn't have to 
be like a Reader's Digest Sweepstakes. 
People like me find the registration process very confusing, but feel that when we ask questions about it, we are morons. What I'm beginning to realize is that I'm in the majority. The "figure it out yourself' mentality taken by the administration has the campus going haywire. 
Uncle! Tell me the secret, Mr. Registrar -I give up. I know Domers are supposed to be intelligent, but trying to guess when registra­tion is scheduled or if an I.D_ number has priority does not call for intelligence -only a psychic could succeed in these quests. 
Don't make us wait till January to see ifour "hit and miss" efforts were hits or misses. After all, aren't our classes the major reason we are here? Ifl'd wanted to enter a lottery, I would. However. administration, I and the rest ofthe students here, simply want to register. 
Mario Cuomo parried the issue skillfully in New York, but Tom Bradley was its victim in California. Many Democratic candidates have managed to protect themselves by joining in a law-and-order stance. But the spectre ofcrime on the streets and in the home will haunt a liberal Democrat like Kennedy or Mondale and help Reagan. 
The nuclear fear will grow unless Reagan strikes an agreement with the Russians by 1984 to start arms reduction. That too is unlikely, although it is possible in a second term if Reagan gets it. The nuclear freeze movement is more diagnostic than practical. A freeze would limit the development of American defensive weapons which are now in the planning, and which would add to deterrence. 
Yet in our time, before the end of the '80s, someone sitting in the nuclear presidency will have to make a start on dismantling the nuclear arsenal in both camps and thus also start on dismantling the nuclear fear. 
(c) 1982, Los Angeles Times Syndicate 

Editorial Board Department Manage:r:s

--_The Observer­
1 I,. IJfJ,O'It'l ~~ an indepcnden: m·v.,p.!J't·r puhll.,lll'd hi' rhe ,tudent' ot the Editor-in-Chief.. .. :\1ichael Monk Business Manager .............................Tony Aiello 
111\l·r,lty of Notre D.tme du I .lc .uhl S.unt 1\l.trv·_, ( ulk.t:t· It doe\ r·ot m,t·".lrll) .ltwwging Editor.. . ...... Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller .............................................Eril· ~chulz rdlnt the pol1c1t'' of the .!dmllll'lr.ltiOII 11! t'lthcr 111\tltulloll The nt"w' 1, report Executit•e .\'eu·s Editor. . ......... Dave Dziedzic Advertising Manager.......................Chri' Owen c•l ·" .11c urJtelv .1nd ·" uhJt' tlit!y .1, l'lh"blc hl1tOr1JI' rt'j'ft";t·nt Ihe .Of'l!lll>ll of S.HC Executit•e Editor ... ......\1argaret Fosmoe Production Manager..................Maura .\lurphy .1 tn.I(O(Ify uf the LcLton.d Bn.tr,l ( odllllt'llt.lfll''· llJ'IniOll~ .uhl ld1t•r' .1ft' the \'ll'W' .\ports Editor ...Chri~ 1\Jenlle' Circulation :~tanager ..........................Ray lnglin ol then author' ( olumn 'l''hl' 1' J\'J1l.1hk tc1 .dl memht·r, tll the, ommunlt\·_ .mJ Editorials Editor ... Paul :\lc(iinn Svstems Manager ...........................Bruce Oaklc:\ the free expre,SIUll ul vuylllg Uf'lnlUil$ un ~.unpu>. through letter>. » encuungeJ Features Editor ..... Tari Brown 
Photo Et11lt1r _l{achel Blount 
Founded November 3, 1966 
Wednesday, November 10, 1982-page 6


~SHOWCASE 
• ---~ • ~ : '· '" l;.Y. 
Joel's CURTAIN 

B
illyJoel has always displayed a talent for making upbeat, infec­tious songs like "Only the Good Die Young" as well as catchy, ex­pressive tunes like "Honesty" or "just the Way You Are." While this .knack has garnered him an extensive string ofhits, it still has'nt enabled him to receive wide critical acclaim because many critics felt that he was simplywasting his ability through selfdramatization, a repetitious and immature lyrical stance, and a tendency for over­cautiousness. However, on his new release entitled The Nylon Cur­tain, Joel's talent comes into full focus to produce one of the major surprises of the music year. 
Pat Beaudine 
record review 

The album starts offaudaciously with a classic joel piece called "Allentown" that literally grabs the listener's attention through its light, acoustic beat andJoel's catchy piano playing. This song could rest on the ;nerits ofthe music itselfas his songs have done in the past, but this timeJoel includes lyrics and subject matter that 
CHICAGO comes to town 
transcend the music quality. Instead ofwFiting about adolescent I angst or related matter, he tackles unemployment with all ofits in­dividual destruction and the shallownessofthe American dream. Im­Monday night, Chicago came to which started out rather simple and An awesome arrangement of mediately, through this first song, he confronts us with a different Notre Dame. developed into a vety good solo. "Feelin' Stronger Every Day" perspective that is carried through to "Lauta," the follower. The group Chicago played Mon­Cetera sang this and the following followed, with nice bass work by 
This song is a poignant portrait of the give and take in adult day night for a rowdy, ifnot capacity, song, "Love Me Tommorrow." Both Cetera and some fantastic guitar fil· relationships and the music is slow, hard edged and soundsdifferent crowd in the South Dome ofthe of them are from their latest album, ler by Chris Pinnick, a guitarist hired than traditionalJoel. It is somewhat appealing nevertheless, but its ACC. 
16. for the tour. 
appeal can't match "Pressure," the third track. This song causes At five minutes past nine, Chicago Next was a song that showcased Champlain's deep, gravelly voice adrenaline to flow while making it perfectly clear that BillyJoel is took to the stage with "Beginnings." Champlain's talents, a tune that started "Ballet For A Girl From Buc­not fooling around. He grips the listener as he sings,"Don't ask for The sound was polished and sharp as came from his solo album. hanan", which started with "Make 
help, you're all alone/ Pressure/ You'll have to answer to your own/ a razor. The smoothness ofthe "Satisfaction", not to be confused Me Smile" and ended with "Colour Pressure." sound hid the kick it gave to.the lis­with the Rolling Stones' song ofthe My World", Lamm's piano working "Goodnight Saigon" rounds out the first side with the same teners, especially duringjames same name. Champlain sang and overtime. Champlain also sang serious lyrical style, but here the subject is VietNam. Joel's voice is Pankow's slide trombone solo, played keyboards on the song, "Colour My World" with a very in good form through the song's gradual escalation and genuinely which included a quick riffofthe performing a scat solo. powerful voice, possibly too power­captures the feeling of melancholy and seriousness associated with Notre Dame Victory March. After-the song, the lights dimmed · ful for the song's original interpreta­the war. The lyrics are very heavy and images ofdarkness, screaming, as Lamm walked to the piano. The tion. 
death, and fear flash into the listener's mind. For example, one ofthe rest ofthe band left the stage as he The main show ended with "Hard beginning stanzas read,"We came in spastic/like tameless horses/ Ed Konrady began picking the strings ofthe To Say I'm Sorry/Getaway", which We left in plastic/ as numbered corpses." These lines lead to the piano. Lamm then sat down and per­brought the crowd, dancing in the 
haunting multi-voiced chorus which sang, "And we would all go formed a stunning piano solo. Danny aisles, to its feet for the third time. down togetherI We said we'd all go down together." As the songand concert review Saraphine then sat down and added The first encore, brought on by side one winds down it is very clear that Billyjoel is making refresh­his powerful drums. The rest ofthe some ofthe loudest yelling I've 
On "Scrapbook," Robert Lamm
ing and meaningful music. band came in and worked into heard in he ACC, started with 
sang and had a marvelous organ solo.
But just when it almost started to seem that joel might have "Does Anybody Really Know What "Happy Man", featuring Saraphine
The vocals ripped out over the
become too serious, he breaks open the second side with an optimis­Time It Is?" another classic piece on an .incredible drum solo that 
audience, a sign ofgood times to
tic workout in pop-rock entitled "Right on Time." This is exactly the that Chicago extended and manip­topped off a night ofawesome drum­
come. "Follow Me" was next, with 
ulated for stronger emphasis. ming. Next came Cetera's version of Lamm and Peter Cetera giving thebreak the lis-tener needs because it shows a bit ofthe old BillyJoel 
writing entertaining songs about love and a woman who will always Lamm's singing brought the crowd "Gimme Some Lovin"', that high­
song a rock tinge that moved the
be there when he needs her. Its chorus chants the title words with to its feet for the loudest applause of lighted Chicago's excellent light
crowd.
strength and the listener is already glued to the speaker. The second the night. But it was only beginning. show which enhanced the band song, "A Room ofOur Own", continues to demand our attention as Asoprano sax solo by Walter Cetera broke into a slower song, without taking away from it. It was a the street hip and defiant BillyJoel sings, "You've got yoga, honey/ Parazaider highlighted the classic Chicago's first No. I single, "lfYou very hot song that kept the crowd I've got beerI You got overpriced/ And I got weird." The imaginitive "Just You and Me." It lead to an ex· Leave Me Now," singing and playing bouncing along. The first encore bass line and electric piano solo show the band at its tightest and tended jam session that showed the twelve-string guitar. The crowd ended with "25 or 6 to 4", with Pin­puts to disgrace any ofthe excuses for true rock and roll on Glass their jazz roots. Cetera took over the rose again to a fever pitch with the nick showing himselfas a possible 
Houses. vocals, letting his voice glide over opening to "Saturday In The Park". successor to the late Terry Kath, and The next two songs, "Surprises" and "Scandinavian Skies" are for the music instead oftrying to Lamm and Cetera shared the vocals some inspired jamming by the entire pure entertainment and on both pieces, joel's vocal posturings steal upstage it. with Lamm contributing a nice group. the show. The themes are not as heavy and the songs allow the lis­Next came "Doin' Business", a piano solo. The band, notably The second and final encore was tener relaxation that is retained throughout the album's closer," rocker sung by Robert Lamm that Pankow, Parazaider, and Lee "Got To Get You Into My Life" Where's the Orchestra?" This song is the least textured ofthe set and was quickly followed by "Chains", Loughnane, the brass ofthe band, which closed the show with the a fitting finale because it shows an element of uncertainty in his which featured the newest member. started to get psyched up them­crowd on its feet and the band rock­present role. Bill Champlain, on a guitar solo selves. ing on into the night. As it winds down it is evident that BillyJoel has chosen a radically new departure from the harmless, pleasant pop music ofyesteryear and opted for a more mature lyrical style and subject matter, while creating music that enhances both. It is a good album that dismisses 
Behind the mask
any chance ofmissing the old Billyjoel because it is ultimately better 

this way. l]Ourth grade art class at 2 p.m. on after year wetted my fingers in the As an actress, I wear many masks .1.' Fridays meant gloppy finger paint and scissored away at con­in addition to·the ones that daily life paints, sticky white Elmer's glue, struction paper in order to create requires of me. I may be asked to rainbow colored construction another being. portray one ofShakespeare's noble paper, blunt nosed scissors and a queens for a time and then one of little nun called Sister Ana. At Pinter's women. A different person
I thought I had long since various festive times of the year, we each time, a different mask. 
graduated from the art of playful little children would be masquerade to the world of reality But acting is separate from life. 
and upfrontery. It took no more than looking in the mirror at a face whose Or is it? 
Tori Brown 
skin was mine but whose features The script has existed since time had been painted on by the deft began and language became an in­movement ofa make-up artist to tegral part ofdaily lfving. The make me realize that I, like many
features opening line is usually "Hi, how are 
people I know, wear a mask. 
you?" The response is a very stan­

given a large brown paper bag, dard, "Fine. And you?" There the
empty, ofcourse, and all ofthe My mask is evidenced by many dialogue ends because we are all ac­
above materials. In a matter ofan things in my bearing, my personal tors wearing the masks ofcourtesy
hour or so, our mission was to create style, my attitudes, my behavior, my and hospitality that dictate our
a face which we could then put on dress and my speech. Friends have pleasantries, however standardized
over our heads to masquerade our­witnessed my early morning they may be. 
selves from each other. "treatises," philosophical explana­tions ofwhy I wore every piece of 
It's all a mask. We put on the

I have long since stopped going mismatching clothing I could find "bright shining" faces and go on 
out trick-or-treating, although my because it made me feel like a clown with the show. And what a show! 
child-like instincts beg me lO in­who laughed rather than cried at the Whether tragedy or comedy, it all dulge in the fantasy oftransforma­absurdity oftrivial worries. Those ends the same.
tion. I have long since left the mornings I took the mask of the parochial grade school where I year clown out ofmy closet and put it on. 


~---~-­

••••••••••••••••••••~••••••~r•••••• 
The Obsetver Fvatures Section 
Wednesday, November 10, 1982-page 7 

Ttivia quiz 55 
L
ast week's quiz was on groups. I name a lineup, you name the group. The answers to that can be found in the lower right-hand corner of this page. But before that. take a look at today's offering. More groups, hut can you identify them from their photos, courtesy of my massive 45 and LP collection? 
2. 
10. 

:::::1)
-
z• ....-e 
9. 
3. 
"-, 
.
--1. 
'~111 
.
1 
~ 

The answers to last week's groups are as follows: 
I. Robert Antoni, Todd Rundgren, Carson van Osten, Thorn Mooney -Nazz 
2. 
Garth Hudson, Richard Manuel, Levon Helm, Rick Danko,Jaime Robertson -The Band 

3. 
Andy McCluskey, Paul Humphrey-Orchestral Manoeuvres in the Dark 

4. 
Clint Warwick, Graeme Edge, Denny Laine, Mike Pinder, Ray Thomas -The Moody Blues 

5. 
Doug Ingle, Ron Bushy, Erik Brann, Lee Dorman -Iron Butterf­ly 

6. 
Qoug Fieger, Berton Averre, Bruce Gary, Prescott Niles-The Knack 

7. 
Gary Richrath, Neal Doughty, Alan Gratzer, Gregg Philbin, Kevin Cronin -REO Speedwagon 


8. Stevie Winwood, Chris Wood,Jim Capaldi, Dave Mason-Traf­
fic 

9. Curtis Williams, DexterTisby, Cleveland Duncan, Bruce Tate­The Penguins (of"Earth Angel" fame in 1955) 
I0. Felix Cavaliere, Eddie Briganti, Dino Danelli, Gene Cornish ­The (Young) Rascals 
~~---~--­

~-~--~---~--~--


SportS ~~~~;;r;:;i=e~~~S~=;==,=.::;:::==========w=e=dn=e=sd=a=y,=N=o=veT;
1m=b=er=I=o=,1::9::82==p=ag=e=s 
Bv The Ohserz•er and The Associated Press 
Notre Dame volleyball team, 23-s, will travel to A Sports Law Forum wm be held tomorrow atter­vatparaiso University tonight to take on the Lady Crusaders. First noon at 3 in Room l 0 I at the Law School. Martin Blackman, Esq., serve will be at 7. -The Observer. Chairman ofthe Practicing Law Institute Committee on Sports Law, and Martin Silfen, Esq., will address students and faculty. Topics to be discussed will include the status of the NFL players' strike; endorse­ments and merchandising of athletes; and the effect ofcable TV on 
Saint Mary's volleyball team will conclude its sports. -The Observer. season in Fort Wayne tonight, playing IU-PU Fort Wayne. -The Observer. 
See SPORTS BRIEFS, page 9 
::m::::[ii\/N TfRHALL :::jl:::J:i:@~f:!: 
INTERHALL WEEK IN REVIEW Nov. 1-7, 1982 WOMEN'S FOOTBALL Championship Game Farley 8, P-E 0 

Farley defeated a tough Pasquenlla East•eam. 8· 
0. for lhe inlerhall flag football champ10nsh1p in a tough battle Sun., Nov. 7 on Cart1er Field. 
The Winning touchdown came m1dway 1n the first half on, believe it or not. a flea-flicker pass from Beth 
See INTERHALL, page 9 

The Observer wtll accept classifieds Mon­day through Fnday. 10 a.m. to 4 30 p.m. However. classtfieds to appear in the next issue must be recetved by 3 p.m. the bustness day pnor to tnsert1on. All classtlieds must be prepatd. 
etther in person or through the mail. 

Classifieds 
FOR St. Edward s Centenn~all!! Jeff a11764. call Paul 3405 LINE· BEST OFFER TIL THURS. X8057 St. Edward's Centenn•all!! St. Edward·s Centennial!!! 
I Need 2 PENN STATE GA's. Please call Need many PENN ST Ga·s or studenlt•x SALE: 2 PENN ST GAS 50 YO
~-NO_T_IC_ES~' ~~_W_A_N_TE_D~ 

I Need PENN STATE Student Tix. Please NEED 2 PENN STATE STUDENT TIX help need Penn St tix student or GA Call St. Edward s Centenmal!!f 
~·· ~·

............................~........... St. Edward's Centennial!!! TYPING AVAILAB.-287-4082 NEED AIDE TO NYC/ Lf AREA FOR ····················· MESMERIZJNG, call Jeff at 1764 . PHIL 1764 Steve 8670 or 8681 
HYPNOTIZING, 

.............................................. THANKSGIVING---CAN LEAVE TUES Watch PENN STATEonTV.Ineed 3or4
NEED Penn Stale GAs MUCH $$ Call NEED TWO PENN STATE GA'S OR STU CAPTIVATING, AMUSING, EXCIT­
TYPING. Fast, accurate, reasonable NOV23AD CALLJOHN at3510 OR 8573 GA lix. Will pay $40 each Call 272-9248 
277-7529 TIX CALL KEVIN 1629 ING!!/ See Tom Deluca. celebrated hyp­rates. Close to campus. LYNN SAYLOR ask for John. 
notist Nov 11 at 8 pm o·Laughlln (SMC) 233-3423. Need Penn Stale lix!f Call287·3538. 
Need 4 Penn St. GA's or Stud. Tkts For Sale-2 Penn State GAs call Dave $1 
I NEED PENN STATE STUDENT TIX.

desperately .Call Jim 277-1773 $$$$$$ 8852 HAVE YOU READ THE MOST FAMOUS need ride fo LOUISVILLE KY for CALLMEAT1722. ALOHA 
Attention SMC Freshmen WAU ON THIS CAMPUS? Thanksgiving call Lee-8693 
Need 3 PENN ST GAs Will Pay Big Desperately need 2 or 3 Penn State GA's Come meet your Freshman Council DO YOU NEED A HAIRCUT BEFORE NEED ANY AND ALL PSU TIX
Bucks Call Pete 8682 Call Norb at 8788 Wed. Nov. 10th 9-10pm 1n Regina South. YOU ARE DEPORTED? HELP! I need a ride lolfrom Dayton for (STUO/GA) CALL MARK AT 3521 
Refreshments provided DOES YOUR MOTHER DANCE ON break. Can'tleave until Wednesday at 12. 
WANTED DESPERATELY:1 PENN ST. Need Penn student lix. Call John x3554. TABLES IN A COCKTAIL LOUNGE? Will share usual. Andy 8692/8697 I NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'S. CALL ERIC
STUD OR GACALL WILL 282·1026 Desperately need 2 GAs for the Penn St. IF YOU ANSWERED YES TO ANY ONE 3663.
NEED 1,2,0R 3 GA TIX FOR PENN ST Game. I will pay big bucks. Call Anne OR MORE OF THESE Need ride Ia Reading, Harrisburg or Philly 
NEED 1 STUDENT AND/OR 2 GAs FOR CALL JIM 277·2736 x4366(SMC) QUESTIONS CAU TODAY FOR AN AP· for Thanksgiving break. Can leave Friday, FOR SALE:2 PENN STATE
PENN STATE. Call Ted (1155). 
POINTMENT: Nov 19. Call Jon 1612. GA'S.RON,239-S611 ;9am-5pm. 
HiI Rick Jaconelte is an army brat. GUYS $4, GIRLS $6 
need 2 Penn Stale GA's x1105 I need 2 Penn St. G.A ·s real bad bad bad MICHOLE AT 7850 Need ride to SPRINGFIELD IL tor Need 2 Penn Stale lix, student or GA. Call jim Iucke ... 
bad bad bad bad! Please call Pat at 8652. ThanksgiVing. Share usual. Call Frank Jack, 1164. 
FELLOW CALIFORNIANS I NEED ALL Thank you. e!McMr -.gboolwa. 
TYPING • PROFESSIONAL AND EX· 6718 

OF YOUR N.D. U.S. C. FOOTBALL TICK· ByeI 
PEAIENCED IN ALL PHASES OF FOR SALE Penn stu lie $50.Milch 3184 
ETS WILL PAY ANY REASONABLE So long Rich. Don't forget to write! TYPING 2 miles from NO. Call Sue 277· GOING TO MILWAUKEE (OR AREA) 
AMOUNT OF MONEY CALL DAN AT B8d? I need tickets so bad that it hurts! 
3878 FOR THANKSGIVING? WE ARE Need two IJCkels for Penn St. for in-laws 
1858 Please call Jim at 8641 if you can help Dear Myron. CHARTERING A SECOND BUS CALL Call232·0063 after 5 P.M.
relieve my pa1n. Thanks. I got the hint. Angel LADIES of COLUMBUS meeting JOHN 17-45 SOON! 
HelpIll LITTLE BROTHER NEEDS TWO 
11. members Need Penn St. GAs. Chris-1730
Thursday, Nov New STUDENT OR GA'S FOR PENN STATE. PLEASE HELP(~EED 2 PENN STATE Dear Bob, 
welcome. Need Riders Along 180-90 For 11/12/82. 

PLEASE CALL KEVIN 8817 GAS FOR MOM AND GRANDMOM BIG I'll always be in 'the warmth of the sun 
8708-09 GUESS WHAT? I NEED 2 PENN STATE 
$$$.CALL FRANK AT 8225. as long as you are around. Laura MONEY FOR SCHOOL!! We guarantee GA'SI MONEY IS NO OBJECT (IT'S
NEED! TWO PENN ST. TICKETS. PAY to find scholarships. grants, aid which AIDE NEEDED THANKSGIVING BREAK DAD'S!) CALL GREG H. 277·1806
GOOD MONEY. CALL MIKE x8705 PLEASE HELP! NEED PENN ST STU· Does Soko loco ski?? you·re eligible lo receive. Application D.C. AREA OR No. VA. CALL 8332 
ANYTIME

DENTTIX!CALLMAGGIE x3611 materials -$1.00. Financ1al A•d Finder. 
HELPIJI NEED 1 GA OR STUDENT ANNE MARIE-HAPPY BIRTHDAY! TO Box 1053-CD. Fairfield, Iowa 52556. I NEED a place to live next semester. Paul NEED 3 STU TIX FOR PENN ST. CALL
TICKET FOR PENN STATEIII Brothers OESPERATEL Y need 3 STUD. lix for THE BEST LITTLE WRITER ON THE 
1154 JOHN 8362. 
want to see one garnet Please call Ann Penn. St. Colleen 6825. SCOOP! LOVE YOU LOTS-JOAN IE 
at 3680-Thanks! Help. Need Aide to Purdue Nov. 19, will NEED 1 STUDENT OR GA PENN STATE 
FOR SALE: AI least 6 Penn Stale GAs. Bob Beres. share expenses. 5276 SMC TICKET CALL LARRY · 283·1 047 
I NEED 1 PENN ST TICKET OF ANY Call Dave 3673 First St. Louis, 
KIND. Please call Bob 277-6880. then Loyola, Help! We need 3 ndes to St Louis for CASH for YOUR Penn Sl. Student Tik!l
I need PSU tixs. GAs or Stud Call 3673 tomorrow. Turkey Oayl Call5528 SMC Tom x1723. 
Want lo be nch and famous, or at least fear and loalhrng 1n the far east. LOST-Light brown Jockey jacket in AB HELP! I NEED ONE STUDENT OR GA
rich? I need 10 Penn State tickets and Will line the Fnday before Break If you have NEED RIDE TO NYC OR NJ FOR TICKET FOR PENN STATE. I AM WIL· COLORADO LODGE REUNION!! Need 
pay much$$$ for them. even more for 4 or Lou1se Mudd Louise Mudd Louise Mudd or heard of anyone who may have found 11 THANKSGIVING CAN LEAVE ANY LING TO DO ANYTHING FOR THIS several Penn sl. tix, GAs too. Paul 289· 
more together. Call Paul at1077. Loutse could you please call 1741 or bnng 11 by DAY KAREN 264-5338 CALL JOHN AT 1528. 5975 
Happy Birthday!!!!!!!!! 328 Grace before it gels cold outs1de · 
INOEPENDENTL Y WEAL THY SIS Happy BJrthday!l!!f!
Need RIDERS to BLOOMINGTON this NEED MANY PENN ST GAS WILL PAY NEED PENN GAS & STUDENT TIX FOR 
needs 1 PENN STATE GA or STUD BIG Happy BirtMayt!!Lost one black and gold cross pen weekend Call Mary Ann at284-5470 BIG BUCKS FAMILY· CALL MOLLY OR KATHY AT a Great Day--and many, many
TIME MONEY is no problem CALL Ross Have engraved Daniel J. 0 Hare iffound please 8085.
at 1898 more!!! return to 217 grace or call Dan at 1858 NEED AIDE TO NEW ORLEANS FOR WILL SELLSOUL OR OTHER .I 
THANKSGIVING CALL ANGELA 284· VALUABLES FOR 2 TICS CALL HELP!! I NEED 2 PENN ST STUD TIX
My voluptuous hllle SISler still needs THE HIT ME WITH YOUR CHEAP-SHOT 
inlials 0.0 C. 4264 PHIL277·0249 $$$CALL ED 7838
glasses brown case call SHOW WILL HOPEFULLY RETURN IN 
PENN ST I IX, stud & GAs We're talk1ngBnan 1044 reward offered 
BIG$$$ (and no date) JOE 1652 THE NEXT WEEK OR SO. BE LISTEN­
WILL TRADE 1 PENN ST STU FOR need 8 stud or ga. will pay bucks call 
ING TO WSND ON FRIDAY NIGHTS 

FOUND. Green case of cassett tapes PENN ST GA KELLY 277-2940 7954
SAVE YOURSELF THE HEADACHE FROM 11:00-? found on New York Metro bus that went 
ONE CALL WILL GET YOU TOP DOL· from New York to South Bend on Sunday, 
FOR SALE 
NEED MANY PENN ~GAs WILL PAY Cousin v1sit1ng from Okla wants to see
LAR for PENN STATE GAS. call 272· EEFER, 
Oct. 31. Call Brll6718. 
$60·$100 PER PAIR CALL 287-3148 Irish beat PSU Call 3626 11 have stu tix to
7152 HAVE A WONDERFUL, NUTTY-
sell 

MARVELOUS 20TH BIRTHDAY TOILET PAPER WAR!! FOR SALE 2 PENN ST GAs PRICE $$$$tor PENN STATE STUD OR GA
DESPERATELY NEED GA TIX FOR LOVE, PETER I lost a hat while greeting the team at the FOR BOTH STARTS AT $100. CALL TIX.INEEDTWOOFEITHEACALLMEL Please Help I need 31ickets for the Penn 
PENN STATE CALL 6803 ma1n cJrcle. II was a plaid Irish cap, of h1gh 1645. AT 1603 State game. Call Tnsh 4136 (S.M. C.) 
LISTEN TO THE MID MORNING BREAK 
sent•menlal value. Please call 277-1 809 1f NEED 2 or 4 GA's for Penn St. Call Week­ON WSND AM64 EVERY MONDAY 

you found it sal. n1ghl. FOR SALE: Guild D-35 AcoustiC Gurlar: NEED MONEY? SELL ME YOUR STU­Need 2 or more GA lix to PENN ST. Call
days collecl312·887-0700. Call nights & AND FRIDAY MORNING FROM lOAM 
excellent cond. Also. hard shell case. Call DENT TICKETS TO THE PENN STATE Maureen 5097 SMC. B1g Bucks.
weekends collect 312-266-0471 Ask for TO !lAM FOUND. one set of keys outsJde of Gal­John 272-0112 or 1-463-7203 evenings GAME! Th1s IS non-taxable 1ncome just
Mark vin. call Dan al239·6624 to claim walling to be yours! AI 30751 Repeat· 
Ralonda· TAKAMINE Model F-400 12 Stnng 30751!
PLEASE HELP A STUDENT IN DIRE Congrals on your JnternshJp!!!l! (does lh1s LOST: one small brown carry-on of AO&O Gu•tar.Rosewood Body,L1ke New Condi· 
NEED OF PENN ST TICKETS CALO mean that I have to address you as "the
PERSONALS 

books before break. It found call Dan at l1on W11h Hard Case $275 call 272· HELP! WILL PAY BIG BUCKS FOR
DAN AT 8900. Honorable representative from 239-6624. Reward offered! 3028 PENN ST GAs x173B 
Kenluck y?")-guess Ill have to gel my let­PLEASE HELP! NEED 2 PENN GA ter tn so that we can party 1n Georgetown MAUAAX2244 this summer!!! 
Browmsh-orange wallet possibly 1n the DESPERATELY NEED PENN ST GA GLUCKLICHE GEBURTSTAG, RICK!!! 
parking lot of Bndgeteson Saturday n~ghl. TIXS.PETE 232·1466 (So my-german isn't quite up to par. Get love. 
KEEP THE MONEY-NO questions yourself a german-speaking female
I need 1 Penn Stale student t1c or GA. Call me asked· I just want the wallet back! NANCY IF YOU'VE GOT THE TIX, I. VE GOT THE fnend. Oh. thai's nghl. You already
TICKETS .)
1261 ps. HOYA SAXA!!! 4263 BUX! $70-$100 for pairs of Penn St GA's. Happy Birthday, Rick. 
The beller the seats. the better the $$$. That Brown person 
Need 1 or 2 STUDENT or GA's call Steve Oes•­
LOST GOLD "OPEN CENTER HEART I need Penn State tJckels! Student or GA. Call Rob, 3288 
al1473 Happy belated b-day1!!·hope your LOTS OF SENTIMENTAL VALUE. IF Melissa x1308 
twenty-second year IS the best one ever!!! 

FOUND, PLEASE CALL SHARONA Desparate:Need 4 GA'S Penn St. $$$ Sl Ed's Centennial Week.. November
I NEED 1 STUDENT TICKET FOR PENN love ya! X4265.. THANKS Need 2 G.A.Iix for Penn Slate game. 1605 Mark 13-21..
STATE. PLEASE CALL CINDY 7092. CRC 
Parents want to see first NO game TALK IT UP!/1!1/! FOUND: Blue NO Windbreaker . in Please call Nancy 4449 SMC. WANT TO ESCAPE NO FRIGIDITY?
NEED PENN ST GAs BIG TIME! $$$ I NEED 3 PENN STATE GAs DAD and 2 LaFortune last Tuesday or so. I sort of Thai's nghl. Penn St. game JS go1ng to be 
CALL 1627 RICH FRIENDS p•cked it up by m1stake Call Margret at NEED PENN STATE GA TIX CALL 1173 -real cold. So whrle you snuggle up to your ONLY 2 MORE DAYS UNTIL THE 
SENIOR CLASS BLOCK PARTY 

277-0684. Sorry! SQUIRE Need B1lly Squ~re tickets real honey, warm and cozy Indoors. my 3 CLUE No.3: Ph illy IS from where this man help need Penn St t1x student or GA Call lrish-fanaiJC fnends can keep your seats
bad. Anyone with tickets please call $$$$ ha11s: should the L1ons w1n, watch the Dav1d 277 • 3823. 
LOST: a gray stadium jacket from the Steve 8670 or 8681 warm af NO stad•um. Not only that, they'll MARGARET, pant,..;a1fl d1n1ng hall If you have taken or seen il, line your pockets With some big-lime THANKS FOR THE USE OF YOUR please call 8024 What was that? You sa1d you wanted to cash. And s1nce my fnends are leprac~ JACK WHEN CAN I RETURN IT? 
Need Penn State t1x. Call J•m at 3342 Rick, become Jnslanlly nch? Then buddy, I m hauns 11 would be aga1nst the luck of the CHUCK 288-0725 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY!! h s Partyt1me! FOUND: One green notebook for Com­your ticket. as long as y all have two for lnsh not to partake 1n thiS propoSJIJon
I need 2 GA s for Penn State Call 289· The Penguin parative Govt If it is yours please call me Two Penn st. GAs. that IS, and you 9304 HELP/ NEED 3 STUDENT TIXI CALL ATTN: Freezing No Californians-Lei's Andy at 8692 or 8697 know my mass1ve mounds of money Will DIANE AT 7983! comm•serale together-ATTEND the SF 
TGREG, be more than enough to make you w1sh to BAY AREA CLUB MEETING WED 7:30
FAMILY CANT COME Have 4 Penn What makes you th1nk that you can't Tix Will sacnf1ce Call M1ke at 3493 aher dance? Unless you can convtnce us, we
lost: Key nng w•th three keys "I love N.Y ... sell them to you Call Extremely Well To FOR SALE: 2 PENN ST. GAs CALL 284· 2-D LaFortune.? Call Leslie 2918 with ra•nbow lost in north quad please call Do Cindy Lou .... Lou at 2948. 11 PM 5258 won·t believe larry x8633 JESUIT VOLUNTEER CORPS w1ll be on 
You KNOW Who NEED 4 GAs AND 1 STU TIC FOR
Help· my Mom IS bnng1ng 1n Jim Mornson Penn St Tix, student or GA Call John campus to recruit students on Thursday, LOST: CLASS RING, INITIALS -and two friends from the Atncan Contment 1707 November II. from 9 a m. lo 4 p m. rn the
PENN ST. CALL KATHY AT 1833. John 8: It was an honor to dance W1th M1ck 
P.R.M. DARK AMETHYST STONE SET to see the Penn Sl game. Would you hap­VSO RESOURCE ROOM Call VSO Jagger 
IN GOLD. IF FOUND, PLEASE CON­pen Need 4 PENN STATE GAs lor family (239-5293) to arrange for an appoint·
NEED 4 GAs AND 1 STU TIC FOR John C: Sorry you d1dn t make •t to P1tt PENN ST. CALL KATHY AT 1833 Parky· You rea spany machme!
TACT PAUL MCGINN AT 239·5313. reunion at N.D. (small family) call ment 
REWARD WITH NO QUESTIONS Desperately need 1 studeniiJc tor vJsJIIng Caspar 277-3276 Mark S Thanks for not sp1lllng the pre!· 
ASKED. RING WAS LAST SEEN IN g~rlfnend for Penn. St. $$$ Call Jeff at Fagan IS three 11mes a lady!!!! And is the 
Help!! Need 2 GAS and 1 STUDENT Ilk zels or ch1ps 
THIRD FLOOR MEN'S BATHROOM OF 1026. PLEASE HELPI! Desperately need 1 or 2 ta~resl, f~irest. !arrest of them all Go SEC­
for PENN ST Call tt93 J1m A. At least you were legal MATH AND COMPUTING CENTER ON Penn Stale student or GA's. W1lling lo pay TION ONE SOUTH WALSH 
Thanks lor a great l•me Fnday mght Lets NOVEMBER9 AT2:4Q PM HELP! NEED 4 PENN STATE GAS! BIG BUCK$1 Call277-2012 Ask for Mrke 
I Will pay anything for Penn St. Ga·s or Slu get bustea aga1n soon!!' MAP, MYM JEB. PLEASE CALL SHEILA 289·9304 THANKS! Jun1or Class 
T1x call Tom 8539 Mom H. and Tnsh FOUND--HEART MEDALLION 
BOWLING!!!!! 

ENGRAVED "FRIENDS FOREVER INI· S1s and her RICH Harvard trrends com•ng I need stud£ •I & GA Trc tor Penn call Pete everyThursdaymghl, 10·12pm TIALS JB & ME CALL SMC 4284 out to see a real football game Need PSI.J 1608 VFW Lanes 
MONEY NO OBJECT! NEEDo1;,30yrd JOE--IS THE ANTICIPATION TURNING 
liNE OR SETTER AT LEAST:;/4 To­YOUR EYES GREEN? SUGAR & SPICE 
T1x. Chns 1181 1047 L1ncolnway E 
GETHER ANYTHING FOR PENN ST. 
NEED 4 PENN ST GAS. Call Jeff al277-90 cents/game 50 cents/shoes NEED PENN ST TIX CALL MIKE 287-0482 
TXS. CALL SMITTY AT x1 075 Moose are elegant! 
So rs The Syste<r• 

4225 I'LL MAKE YOU AN OFFER YOU CANT
See Add Abovelff Ch1cago clergy need Penn Stae IJckets REFUSE 1 MY GODFATHER IS COMING a What IS the favonte !ype ot Dalntlng In
L--_FO_R_RE_NT-----J 

NEED2 PENN STATE GAS CALL x1610 John at 1580 TO THE PENN STATE GAME AND
Must Have Txsfll SEE ADD ABOVE Indiana? 
ASK FOR RICH NfEDS G A S BELIEVE ME. YOI.J 
A Elk An naturally 

Student Housrng · Clean Safe. I~EED 6 GAs AND t STUD TIX FOR NON ' BE SORRY IF YOU HELP HIM
Need many PENN ST Gas or studenllrx 
$100/mo 291-1405 'liE ED PENN STATE GA TIX CALL 1173 PENN ST DAVE 277-0955 OUT CALL TRACEY AT 284-4379 
call Paul 3405 I JUSt can 1 walt to get on _the road aga1n 
•~•.1------------------·'{,;-~o•.: ~~.-:::.~.~--"""'~.!",M,~,---~----~-----------------------~-'!"'!-,____________..,..__..........."'!'__~-----'!'111_•.....L 
The Observer Wednesday, November 10, 1982 -page 9 
... lnterl1all 
continuedfrom page 8 
Hackett to Joyce Mettr to Stelid Ossello. who ran 50 yards for the score Sharon Koehler added the two­potnt converston to comptete the sconng 
P-Es attempt to susta•n a dnve wtth less than two m1nutes to play was thwarted by a tough Farley defense. led by lineman Jenny W1rthman 
Note: All women steams must return practtce Jerseys and footballs to the NVA office by today, Wednesday MEN'S FOOTBALL Final Standings 
PARSEGHIAN DIVISION 1) x-D1IIon (5-0-0) 2) Keenan (3-1-1) 3) Grace (2-3-0) 4) Off-Campus (2-2-1) 
5) Morrtssey ( 1-4-0) 6) Flanner (1-4-0) 
LEAHY DIVISION 1) x-Aiumm (5-0-0) 
2) Holy Cross (3-2-0) 3) Zahm (3-2-0) 4) Stanford (2-3-0) 5) Cavanaugh (1-4-0) 6) Pangborn (0-5-0) 
ROCKNE DIVISION 1) x-Howard (3-0-1) 
2) y-St. Ed's (3-1-0) 3) Sarin (2-1-1) 
4) Carroll ( 1-3-0) 5) F1sher (0-4-0) x-clinched division title and playoff berth y-clinched Wild-card spot and playoff berth 
Playoffs beg1n Sunday afternoon w1th the semi­finals and conclude next Sunday, November 21, with the 1nterhall championship game. All games will be played on Stepan Field Here are the playoff pairings: 
Sun. Nov.14 Howard vs. St. Ed's, 1 p.m. Alumni vs Dotlon, 2 p.m. 
(First team listed must wear white jerseys) 
Sun. Nov. 21 Winners meet for the 10terhall chamPIOnShip, starting time to be announced 
DOMER SIX-MILE RUN Results from Sat., Nov. 6 
TopS Men 

1) Francis Awanya (grad), 32:18 
2) Bob Bligh (undergrad), 34:04 
3) Jeff Westhaven (undergrad), 34:05 
4) Tim Mahon (undergrad), 34:44 
5) Ed Rudnicki (undergrad), 35:12 
TopS Women 

1) Rose Marte Lukong (undergrad), 41:02 
2) Shannon Mara (undergrad), 41 :07 
3) Alane Tranel (undergrad). 44:44 4) Sylv1a Reveles (undergrad). 45:11 
5) Laura Hartogan (undergrad), 46:14 
Winners By Division Male Undergrad: Bob Bligh. 34:04 Male Grad: Francos Awanya. 32·18 Male Faculty/Staff: Moke Stewk. 46:54 Female Undergrad: Rose Marte Luk1ng. 41:02 
Team  Winner:  · PLS  Plodders.  Dept.  of  Loberal  
Studoes  
ICE HOCKEY  

Deadline for regtstration for interhall tee hockey is today, Wednesday Team capta1ns should submot rosters to the onterhall offoce. ACC C-2. Rosters must have a mintmum of 20 players, and team members must represent the same hall Players must furnosh skates, sticks, helmets and mouthpieces. Also, a 
team entry fee of $30 will be charged to help pay Offi­cials. Proof of tnsurance must be showm by each player 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Deadline tor men·s basketball signups is today. Teams may be selected on any way a hall chooses t. and rosters may have up to 18 names. In order that all halls be equally represented. halls may enter teams as follows: one team per 100 students; each hall Will be notified of the number of teams it may enter. Halls must enter teams in both the A and B Divisions. The number of teams entered in one diviSIOn may not exceed the number of teams entered in the other dtvo­sion by more than one 
Due to the large number of forfeits in prev1ous years, a $20 entry tee will be required tor payment of referees. Proof of insurance is requ1red from each player. 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Deadline tor women's basketball reg1stration os today, and team members must represent the same hall. Teams must have a minomum of 10 players and a $20 entry tee is requored to pay officoals. Proof of in­surance is requtred from each player. 
CLUB BASKETBALL 
Deadline tor signups today Club must be regis­tered with student activities, and players must be members of the club tor which they play. Proof of in­surance is required for each player. 
SQUASH TOURNAMENT 
Deadline for regostration tor the NVA squash toor­naent is today. Call 239-6100 or stop by C-2 of the ACC to sign up. 
RACQUETBALL PAIRINGS 
Games must be played, and results reported to the NVA ofhce, by Wednesday, Nov. 17. If your name is not listed, you have a bye and should look for your name in next week's pa1nngs. 
Dave Desaulniers (6864) v Mike Kennelly (1 150) 
Rob Bertone (1150) v. Jerry Murphy (6756) 
Joe Horvath (7791) v Bill McGowan (8810) 
Steve Pasley (234-3224) v. Harry Oliver (289-4274) 
• • • Spf!rts Briefs 

continuedfrom page 8 
Fellowship ofChristian Athletes will hold 
a meeting tonight at 8 in the Library Lounge. ND Women's tennis coach Sharon Petro will be the featured speaker. FCA promotes fel­low!>hip among athletes and coaches hoping that this will be shared with the larger community. All are invited to attend. -The Ob­sen,er. 
ND-SMC ski teatn will hold a mandatory meeting for all members and prospective members in Room 2-C of LaFortune this eveni~g at '7. -The Observer. 
Second Annual Senior Block Party
3:00 Friday, Nou. 12 nder the hockey dome ACC 
Plenty of Food,Refreshments,,. . and Music All Seniors, Faculty, and local Residents Welcome 
:,,,,,,,,,,Pieas€~~it€YOUR''''''''"'''"'] 
. : PENN STATE STUDENT TICKETS ~ 
B14 Booth€WB1~:~ o~ notsrr 
Collection in dining halls tuesday, wedrt~3day, thursday nov 9, 10, 11 
lf..Dfl> J[}5:00-6:00 pm 
~ 


. a achtlb enJoy an n.o. qam 
.::::::~:~:::~:~:::::~:::::::::~:::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:~::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 0 
Dan Meakon (6863) v Everett Atwell (1535) 
Scott Fox (8279) v Dan Anderson (239-8261) 
Tom Schoerl (3667) v Chuck Hogan (1801) 
Gary Lekander (4388) v Moke M1chaux (4388) 
Tany Kremer ( 1 059) v J1m Uhll (3889) 
Dave Milia (8742) v T1m Connors (8704) 
Gene Witchger (4579) v Eldred McDonell (1056) 
Andy Reardon (8592) v Ken Schmitz (8933) 
M1ke Joy (8703) v Ron Jones (8594) 
N1ck C1ndrte (6703) v. Robert Powers (277-1776) 
Carlos Martonez (8648) v Frank Wosczyna (1248) 
Tim Marten (7829) v. Matt OToole (8324) 
Paul Ponedo (288-3051) v. FeliCII9n Brown (3262) 
Chros Hatfield (1064) v Ed Fullmer (287-1206) 
Dave Sobczak (1593) v. Rowell Reyes (1484) 
Tom Han neg an (8891) v. Scott Cade (3365) 
Jim Reed (3364) v. Mike McCabe (233-6068) 
Roger Wilke (1479) v Tom Cleary (1857) 
John Raster (1780) v Rich Paris (1229) 
John Crilly (1229) v Peter Pokomy (3287) 
Chop Schachner (8760) v Michael Bealy (288-9636) 
Dave Turner (3542) v. Mark Himsworth (1143) 
John De Frances (1145) v Don Shank (288-3051) 
• • . Items 
continuedfrom page l2 
PACE SETTER Placekicker 
Mike Johnston needs only two more 
field goals to tie Harry Oliver's 
record of 18 successful field goals in 
a season. He has now made 16-of-17 
for 94 percent efficiency. The 
record for a season is 80 percent and 
for a career, only 72 percent. 
Johnston is fifth in the nation in field 
goals, and 23rd in scoring. Not bad 
for a former walk-on in his first year 
ofintercollegiate placekicking. 
Speaking of pace-settees, Penn 
State Coach Joe Paterno has 
compiled a 17-year mark of 159-34­
1 for an .822 winning percentage ­
tops among active coaches with 
over 10 years' experience. 
~~::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:; 
-


I ON fSEN~gt~Ib~~ TO 
I: 

:·=· =·=·
THE NUCLEAR ARMS RACE 
THURSDAYf NOVEMBER II 
•••• 11:30a.m. ~~~~~oH::~cChurch .·. 
.. 


.. 
:::: 
.. 

4
•·•• :ISp.m. ~~~:~O~~n~~iam'M~l'ea~. 00 I 
7:30 ~:;~::::~:se-SALT Italks. ..: 
1 
:~l~ library Auditorium _ ) t Professor Everett Mendelsohn, ·•••i Harvard University. ', i!ll "Beyond the Nuclear Threat" ~j1: 
~ -~-~ 
1 ~ N ~ 
ll ' EVERYONE WELCOME I 

1 Notre Dc1me participating with over 500 other cam~ uses { ~ 
===: 
:\\\: 
0 • 
~~:~ 

%:::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
-. 

I ----------------·-------------··-·· ----­The Observer Wednesday, November 10,1982-page 10I 
I 
t r 
l I' 
! 
I 
~ 
~ 
i 
,I 
~ 
Sugar Ray Leonard (left), the undisputed wel­terweight boxing champion ofthe world, delivers a left to Thomas Hearns in their title unification bout in Las Vegas last year. Leonard, who under­

-


vent retina surgery in February, announced his ·etirement last night in Baltimore. See story on the backpage. ( AP Photo) 
Players choose sides on NFL owners'offer 
NEW YORK (AP) -The Dallas Cowboys and Los Angeles Rams, and players on other teams, joined the New Orleans Saints Tuesday in giving conditional support to the National Football League club owners' latest contract offer, den­ting the union's publicly proclaimed solid front. 
Many players, however, also reaf­firmed their opposition to the five­year, $1.31 billion offer by the Management Council, and union leader Ed Garvey insisted that no team has formally voted to accept the proposal. 
Not unexpectedly, the NFL also called off next weekend's games. Half of the 16-week regular season -112 games -now has been af­fected by the strike, leaving no more than 10 games ifthe season resumes Nov. 21 and two weekends are made up. 
Garvey said the next 48 hours are crucial. "Even if you accept our timetable for moving the schedule ... you do start to run out of time," he said. 
Also Tuesday, the Management Council filed an unfair labor practice complaint, charging that New Or­leans player representative Russell Erxleben had been threatened by union officials for his dissenting views. 
Garvey said Monday night that 25 
teams had "more or less" rejected 
Corby's 

Ihe~r======================================= 
~~4(Jl~~=========================~==e=d=ne=s=d=a=y=,N=o=v=e=m==b=er==10=,=1=9=8=2===p=a=g=e=l=l 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 

Campus 
•12:10 
p.m.-Film, "A Matter ofChoice," 105 Law School, Sponsored by Christian Legal Society 

•4:30 
p.m. -Amnesty International Meeting, International Students Lounge 

•4:30 
p.m. -MicrobiologySeminar, "Role ofCel· lular Lipids in Macrophage Activation for Tumor Cytotoxicity," Dr. Seymour I. Schlager, Galvin Auditorium 

•4:30 
p.m. -Chemistry Lecture, "Nuclear Polarization Studies of Photo-induced Electron Transfer Reactions," Dr. Heinz D. Roth, 123 Nieuwland Science Hall



Simon 
•7, 9, and 11 p.m. -Film, "Seems Like Old Times," 
Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored By Sophomore Class, S1 
•7:30 
p.m. -Theological Issues, "The Church: Why Roman Catholic," Rev. Herman Reith, C.S.C., 115 O'Shaughnessy Hall 

•8 
p.m. -Speaker, Sharon Petro, Ubrary Lounge, 


Sponsored by Fellowship of Christian Athletes Forum 
•8 
p.m. -English Department Lecture, "C. s. Lewis and the Church of Rome," Prot: Christopher Derri<:k, Galvin Ufe Sciences Auditorium 

•B 
p.m. -Lecture, "Beyond Christology: The Problem of God in Mark's Gospel," Rev. John Donahue, S.J., Ubrary Auditorium 

•8 
p.m. -Concert, by the Rhythmic Union, O'Laughlin Hall, S2 for students



T.]. Wrobel 
•8:15 p.m. -Contemporary Issues Lectures, 
"Law and Evolution," Dr. Edward Murhpy, 115 
O'Shaughnessy Hall, Sponsored by Thomas More 
Society 

~~~~~~======~~~~~"'~~~~ 
I 
T.V. Tonight 






6p.m. 

ACROSS 33 John, the 1 Campus director group 34-de
The Daily Crossword 
5 Classroom Boulogne 
feature 35 Outwits, 10 Pace in a way 14 Frog genus 40 Miscalcu· 15 Fortifica· lates 
tion 41 Vaulted 16 Ruin 42 "Play it 17 Indigo dye again, -" 18 Revise 43 Resilient 19 Paradise 45 Equal: pref. 
dweller 48 Creche 20 Outwits, setting 
in a way 50 "Render 23 Human unto-..." 24 Brought up 52 Outwits, 27 Historical in a way 
period 56 Imitates 
28 Saves 58 Kind of 
32 Bath or Ems numeral 
Tuesday's Solution 
©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
11/10/82 
59 Bern's  25 Heroic tale  6:30p.m.  
river  26 Meet event  
60 "1-give  29 Old Roman  
you..."  tunic  
61 Obliterate  30 Dove homes  7p.m.  
62 Golda of  31 Removea  
Israel  chapeau  
63 Feminine  33 Alts.  
ending 64 Parking lot  34 Future flower  7:30p.m.  
mishaps  35 "Good  
65 Doin  Queen-"  
DOWN  36 Part of Q.E.D.  Sp.m.  
1 Fountain  37 Military  
treat  force  
2 Grace's spouse  38 Delicate ones  9p.m.  
3 "Peer Gynt"  39 Nut  
character  43 Deer  
4 Powders  44 Looked  
5 Most naive  wantonly  9:30p.m.  
6 Lunar  45 Syria's  
landers  neighbor  10p.m.  
7 Greek  46 Lizards:  
theaters  suff.  
8 Judge's bench  47 Cantanker· ous  llp.m.  
9 Suffer  49 Moisten  
10 Tropical  the meat  
fruit 11 Marian or  51 Dutch cheeses  11:30p.m.  
Maxwell  53 Hurting  
12 Ms. Lupino  54"-for All  
13 Jones, the singer 21 Egyptian  Seasons" 55 American cartoonist  12p.m. !2:30p.m.  
god of  56 Expert  
light  57 Mike's  
22 Law matter  partner  


16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 3·2·1 Contact 16 NBC Nightly News 22 CBS News 28 ABCS World News Tonight 34 Over Easy 16 M•A•s•H 22 Laverne and Shirley 28 joker's Wild 34 The MacNeiVLehrer Report 16 All in the Family 22 Family Feud 
28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 16 Real People 22 Seven Brides for Seven Brothers 28 Tales ofthe Gold Monkey 34 In Performance at the White House 16 Facts of Life 22 Alice 28 The Fall Guy 34 Gossip from the Forest 16 Family Ties 22 Filthy Rich 16 Quincy 22 Tucker's Witch 28 Dynasty 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 . 34 The Dick Cavett Show 16 Tonight Show 22 Archie Bunker's Place/CBS late 
Movie 28 ABC News Nightline 28 ABC late Night News 16 late Night with David letterman 
-

Get Psyched for the Final FIGHTIN' IRISH Home Football Game with: 
ARION 

Keenan Hall Friday, Nou. 12 9:30-? $3/person ,
Tickets available at the Student Un1on Ticket 
Office (first floor Lafortune) nan Hall r2~idents 
SQorts 
Wednesday, November 10,1982-page 12 

-----~-----------~---­

.. 
to .Jlield more that 17 points in a game to its op­ponents, will again see action under Musco's lights in Saturday's late-afternoorl game against Penn State. See Rich O'Connor's "Irish Items" at right. (Photo by Rachel Blount) 
Welterweight ch~p 

Sugar Ray Leonard calls it acareer 
BALTIMORE (AP) -World wei· terweight champion Sugar Ray Leonard, who admitted he vacillated until the last minute, announced his retirement from boxing Tuesday night. 

-
"The final decision was made tonight, right here in the ring," Leonard said after making the an­nouncement to a crowd of more 
than 9,000 in the Baltimore Civic Center, where he launched his pro career in 1977. 
In answer t to a question shouted from ringside, Leonard explained his indecision during the six months since an operation to correct a detached retina. 
"Every day "it was a different answer," he said. "I didn't want to mislead the public." 
Leonard said he had thought about returning to competition for a time, but added, "then I forgot about 
it." 
Answering another question from the audience, Leonard said: "the feeling is gone. I will not come back. That's it." 
During his formal announcement, during which he thanked his family and all those connected with his career both in and out of the ring, Leonard looked toward mid­dleweight champion Marvin Hagler, a possible opponent who it was thought would produce a purse of SI5 million or more for Leonard. 
"The fight with that great man would be one of the greatest in the history of boxing," Leonard said. "It would be Fort Knox, and he's the on­ly man who could make it happen. Unfortunately, it will never happen." 
Hagler, one of the invited guests who spoke to Leonard as he sat in the ring listening to accolades, also made reference to a possible bout with the welterweight champion. 
"Leonard and Hearns (Thomas Hearns, whom Leonard defeated to become undisputed welterweight champion) was the showdown, but we've got to be the fight of the cen­tury," Hagler said. 
Prior to that, however, Hagler said, "I'u like to see Leonard go out with style, the way that he is." 
Public speakers included former heavyweight champions Muham­mad Ali and Ken Norton, former light heavyweight champions Mat­thew Saad Muhammad and Eddie Mustafa Muhammad, Leonard's manager Angelo Dundee. enter­tainer Wayne Newton and Dr. 

NEW YORK (AP)-Robin Yount of 
the Milwaukee Brewers, who 
capped his finest season by setting 
one World Series record and equall­
ing another, was named Most 
Valuable Player of the American 
League by a large margin on Tues­
day. 

Yount, a 27-year-old shortstop, received 385 points in balloting by a special panel of 28 members of the Baseball Writers Association of America, two from each AL city. Eddie Murray of the Baltimore Orioles was second in balloting with 228 points. 
Yount received all but one first­place vote. The other went to Reggie jackson of the California Angels, who finished sixth in balloting with 
I07 points. Third in the vote was Doug DeCinces of the Angels with I 78 points, followed by Hal McRae of Kansas City with I 75, Cecil Cooper ofthe Brewers with I 52 and 
Jackson. 

In all, 33 players received men­tion on the ballot on which panel members were asked to vote for I 0 players. Each first-place vote was worth I4 points, second place was wonh nine points and on down the line to one point for 10th place. 
Before this year, Yount's best season had been I980 when he set career marks with a .2':13 average, 2.3 homers and 87 RBI. But he eclipsed even that season in I982 with a bat­ting avt:rage of .3.31, one point be­hind league leader Willie Wilson of Kansas City, who ~at out the final game of the season to preserve his ..3j2 average. 
He also drove in II runs, hit 29 homers, stole 14 bases and com­mitted only 24 errors, while improv­ing his range at shortstop. 
Yount, whose bat cooled off during the American League playoff against California, was outstanding as the Brewers met St. Louis in the World Series. He hit .414 with one homer and shared the team lead in RBI with Cooper by driving in six runs. 
Although the Brewers lost the Series in seven games, Yount kept alive his chase for glory. He set a record with four hits in each of two games and tied teammate Paul Molitor for another record with six at-bats in one game. 
Asked on the eve of Game One of the World Series if he felt he deserved MVP honors, Yount dis­avowed personal goals. 
"The Milwaukee Brewers are the most valuable team," he said. "We have a great team. The year I had could not have come about if it wasn't for this club." 
Yount played only one season in the minor leagues, in 1973, then joined the Brewers the following year. He played in 107 games his first season and has been the Brewers' regular shortstop ever since. 
This year, Yount became the first shortstop to lead the American League in both total bases ( .367) and slugging percentage (. 578 ). He led the league with 210 hits and tied McRae for the AI. lead in doubles with 46. He was second to Molitor in runs with 129 and third in triples with IZ. 


ringside seats, with the gneral public charged S! and $2 for seats in the Civic Center. Proceeds benefitted Baltimore's summer jobs program for youth. 
He had played the event to the hilt the way one of the invited guests, Ali, used to do during his equally or­chestrated career. 
In August, Leonard said he could, indeed, walk away from a sport that has earned him some $35 million in purses and millions more from other sources. 
But just last week, while serving as 
See 'SUGAR', page 10 
Bre~eN'Yountna~ed A~erican MVP 
Ronald Michels, the opthamologist who operated on Leonard. 
Michels told the crowd that the operation was a success but added that he hoped Leonard would retire. 
Before the ceremony, Leonard's wife, Juanita, said, "I just told him if he didn't quit I'd break all his fin­gers." 
Leonard had not fought since Feb. 15, and his well-publicized decision came six months to the day since the 26-year-old welterweight champion underwent surgery to correct a detached retina in his left eye. 
YIPs paid S100 for cocktails and 




