
-·~----­
-----~ 
• .Kanury project -page,7 

tht: indc:pc:ndcnt studc:nt nt:w~papt:r ~erving notrc: dame and saint mary's MONDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1982
VOL. XVII, NO. 60 
/' 
Financial Aid Counselor Father Joe Carey reviews a studenrs situation. 
The Money Crunch 
Editor's note: This story begins a two-day news special on thefinan­cial aid situation at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's that has an increasing number ofstudents and administrators concemed. Tum to pages 8 and 9 for further coverage. 
By MARK BOENNIGHAUSEN 
ANDJOHN COEN 
StaffReporters 
There's important talk brewing 

under the Golden Dome and it isn't 
just about bowl bids. 
The financial aid situation at 

Notre Dame is climbing higher and 
higher on the agendas of ad­
ministrators as the University re­
evaluates it commitment to student 
aid for the 1980s. 
With increasing tuition costs, it is 

crucial for a top university to 
possess a strong financial aid 
program, and among Notre Dame 
administrators there appears a 
powerful commitment to improving 
the University's program. 
Associate Provost Father Edward 

Malloy confirms this commitment. 
"Every part of the administration is 
trying to pay greater attention" to 
the financial aid situation. Controll­
ing the rise in tuition and expanding 
sources for funding are two ways 
Thousands wait 
Wales a misses usual mass, stays near home 
GDANSK, Poland (AP) Thousands of Poles hoping to greet Lech Walesa jammed one of Gdansk's largest churches yesterday waiting for him to attend services, but the freed Solidarity chief prayed at a chapel near home instead. 
There was no explanation for why the leader of the outlawed inde­pendent union skipped what would have been his first major public ap­pearance, one week after arriving home from 11 months ofinternment under martial law. He had been widely expected to attend Mass at St. Brigyda's church. 
But there was speculation Walesa decided the appearance might anger Poland's Communist authorities, who freed him after announcing he was no longer considered a political that Malloy sees for the University to brighten the financial aid outlook. 
The Priorities and Commitments for Excellence report, expected to be released soon, concludes that stu­dent aid is one of the top priorities for the future of Notre Dame, according to Notre Dame Financial Aid DirectorJoe Russo. 
Father David Tyson, executive as­sistant to the president, said that there are no numbers in the PACE report for increasing aid, and specific proposals will be left up to the Board of Trustees, Father Theodore Hesburgh, University president, and other top University officers. 
Tyson said the increased aid will probably be in the form of increas· ing the amount of the endowment earmarked for student aid, but he says that at the moment there is no 
' ' I am very optimistic about the long-term situation 
------------~~------------'' 
definite percentage increase by any means, Russo said. "I am very planned. optimistic about the long term situa­
The Board of Trustees does seem tion. I would certainly rather be to have fmancial aid on its mind. At facing this challenge here at Notre its meeting held during the week Dame that at many other institu­prior to the Penn State game, a dis­tions. I am encouraged by what I cussion about financial aid was on hear upstairs." the agenda. Russo sees this attention paid to the student aid situation as See Administrators, page 8 "encouraging." 
threat. He has been careful to avoid criticizing the government since his release. 
Walesa, a devout Roman Catholic, met in Warsaw with Polish Arch­bishop Josef Glemp on Saturday, reportedly to discuss how he should behave in public. The church had repeatedly pleaded for Walesa's release. 
Several thousand worshippers at­tended services outside St. Brigyda's church and spilled outside after­ward, stopping cars entering the grounds and searching vainly for the 39·year-old union leader. 
Meanwhile on the other side of town, reporters said Walesa walked with his wife Danuta and three of 
their seven children from their • ing the lack of information in the dingy apartment house to St. state-run media on his activities 
The University's endownment fund ( 1982 book value: S196 mil· lion) is the major source of revenue for University-funded financial aid at Notre Dame. Nearly 14 percent of the endowment is used to generate funds for scholarships and other aid. "We would like to endow all major expenditures of the Cniversity," Malloy said, adding that he would like to see the portion ofthe endow­ment for financial aid expanded. "We're not good enough," he said. "We'd like to be, but we simply don't have the resources." 
Russo said that at present the 
funds he directly administers are 
"not adequate to meet the full needs 
of every student," and that recent 
cuts in some federal aid programs 
have exacerbated the situation. 
But this is no doomsday forecast 
Kazimir's chapel, trailed by dozens of people. Walesa raised his hands several times in victory signs as he entered the small chapel, but made no statement, reporters there said. After services, the congregation of about 200 followed him home and then dispersed quietly. 
Securi ty forces seized Walesa Dec. 13 when Premier Gen. Woj­ciechJaruzelski decreed martial law after 16 months ofstrikes and union challenges to Communist authority. Walesa returned home Nov. 14 from a government lodge in southeast Poland, where he spent the last six of his I I months in internment 
The St. Brigyda's crowd was anxious for Walesa to arrive, reflect­


Reagan's MX plan faces opposition 
WASHINGTON (AP)-President Reagan's announcement of a basing plan for the block-buster MX missile is certain to launch a new round of military and political arguments that already have stretched on nearly a decade. 
Reagan, scheduled to reveal his long-awaited decision today, is ex­pected to endorse an Air Force plan known as "dense pack," which calls for clustering 100 missiles close to­gether in super-hardened silos. 
Returning to the White House af­ter a weekend at Camp David, Reagan confirmed he had reached a decision on the basing mode but told reporters he would not disclose it until today. 
The missile decision is slated to be announced only hours before the president makes a nationally broad· cast speech on arms control to propose steps the United States and Soviet Union should follow to guard against accidental nuclear war. 
Speaking from the Oval Office at 8 
p.m. EST, Reagan is expected to call for improving the hot line between Washington and Moscow and call for a program of advance notifica­tion ofplanned missile tests. 
Even before Reagan announces his decision, opponents of the MX are trying to line up votes to kill it . 


Little Sisters receive Madonna Night medals 
By PAM RICHARDSON 
StaffReporter 
Saint Mary's freshmen received Marion Medals from their Big Sisters last night at Madonna Night -the culmination of the Big Sister-Little Sister program. 
The celebration, held in O'Laughlin Auditorium, is a tradition designed to strengthen Saint Mary's womens' understanding of the Vir­gin Mary and ofhuman relationships in general. 
Marion Medals are given as a sym­bol and reminder of the love that 
Mary  and  her  cousin  Elizabeth  
shared.  They  also  represent  
friendship  and  faith  - and  the  

potential for each -in the context ofthe Big Sister-Little Sister relation­ship. 
since being freed. Except for briefly announcing his release, the state-run press has not mentioned him. The government has said it now con­siders Walesa a pri'Vate citizen. 
"We're really in the dark, and we don't know what is happening to him," a churchgoer said. 
Though Walesa had nothing to say Saturday or yesterday about his meeting with Glemp, he told repor­ters he needs another month to assess the situation under martial law. 
There was speculation that Walesa, like many Poles, was await­ing the outcome of an officially an­nounced Parliament session Dec. 13-14, which has led some to believe the government will lift or suspend military rule. 

Sen. Ernest Hollings, D-S.C., says there already are enough votes in the Senate to stop production of the missile, whose I 0 warheads each pack more than 10 times the destructive power of the Hiroshima bomb. 
And there's trouble in the House, as well. "Well, I don't want to min­imize the difficulty with MX," House Republican Leader Robert Michel said last week. "That's going to be a tough one." 
Rep. Joseph Addabbo, D-N.Y., chairman of the House Appropria­tions subcommittee on defense, came within one vote in his own panel ofdenying money for the MX. He pledged to fight the missile in the 
full committee and  on  the House  
floor.  
Over  the  years,  the  MX  has  

survived many attempts to kill it. 
Opponents argue the MX could wind up costing twice the pricetag the Pentagon has put on the program -S25 billion. They say it is a waste of money, with some saying the United States already has enough nuclear firepower and others ar­guing that improved guidance tech­nology has made all land-based missiles vulnerable. 
SeeMXpage4 
Madonna Night is an annual event at Saint Mary's. Its purpose is to provide incoming freshmen with a source ofinformation and shared ex­perience in the form of Big Sisters. 
Cheryl Sweeney, chairman of Madonna Night, commented that the program "helps freshmen feel at home" when they come to Saint Mary's. 
Many other freshmen· upperclassmen activities have been held throughout the semester including a reception and a movie, but Sweeney hopes that more events are held individually between Big and Little Sisters. 
Sweeney stressed that the program was differently organized this year than in the past. More rigid requirements and a commitment to the program were required to qualify as a Big Sister. Sweeney em­phasized that her committee is "building the groundwork" for future years, but she said that "she feels really good about the success ofthe program." 
This year there are about 450 Little Sisters and 200 Big sisters; therefore upperclassmen have more then one Little Sister. Sweeney predicts that this year's success will encourage future classes to par­ticipate. 
The Big and Little Sisters both expressed the belief that Madonna Night is a worthwhile function. 
Sophomore Joann Theiss said she "definitely feels freshmen need a big sisters. I always knew my Big Sister was there when I needed her, even though we didn't do much togeth­er," she said. 
Freshman Margie Tyrell com­mented, "it is something we'll remember for the rest of our lives." She said she couldn't wait until she had a Little Sister next year. 
-----~-



NewsBrieb 
By The Obseroer and The Associated Press 
President Reagan's chiefeconomist conceded 
yesterday that the federal budget deficit could swetl up to $200 bil­lion in fiscal 1984 "ifthere are not significant actions" by the govern­ment to curb spending. Although administration officials have hinted privately in recent weeks that the deficit could soar to new heights, the red-ink estimate acknowledged by Martin S. Feldstein represented the first time a senior administration official has conceded the magnitude ofthe problem in public. Feldstein, who is chairman of President Reagan's Council ofEconomic Advisers, was interviewed on NBC's "Meet the Press." The White House economist also said that despite "serious problems" stitl besetting the economy, "the foundations are reatly there for an economic recovery ... I think the economy is now ready to recover." -AP 
Princess Diana, lately reported by Britain's tabloids to be losing weight, is not suffering from a wasting disease but has "freaked out" from the pressures of public life, London's Mail reported yesterday. Nigel Dempster, a gossip columnist for the newspaper, said the·tnaint!pressure is press scrutiny of the 21-year­old princess, who married Prince Charles inJuly 1981 and gave birth in june to a baby boy. Att:~cking ri"\1 tabloids for their"revclation" a week ago that Diana was suffering~ the dieters' disease anorexia nervosa, Dempster quoted an unidentified member of the "inner circle" as saying: "Quite simply, she has freaked out. She cannot handle the affairs ofstate like Prince Clurl.es, who has ofcourse been trained all his life to do so." Buckingham Pabce has denied that the princess is suffering any ailment_ "There is nothing wrong with the princess which patience and understanding witl not cure," theMail columnist said. "The trouble is that Fleet Street's down-market tabloids are not prepared to give her that chance." -AP 
The glittering nam.es wereetched in glittering 
glass with a diamond pen: Paul Newman, joanne Woodward, Kat­harine Hepburn and Woody Allen_ Those New York City luminaries etched their autographs on glass hoxes to help raise funds for the New York Public Library. A double-lid box autographed by Newman and Miss Woodward was auctioned Saturday for S60; a box signed by Miss Hepburn went for $70 and one signed by Allen sold for $55. Iilli Lihn of Glassmasters Guild, which helped in the benefit, said the celebrities wete sent the boxes and a diamond-tipped pen to use in signing their names. Some sent their ~wn boxes, such as Yoko Ono, who sent a Cartier lead c:rystal box that was auctioned for $80, Ms. Lihn said. The auction in the library's Donnell Center rmed about 
53,300 for the library, officials said. -AP 
Doctors fear a 5-year-oldWarsaw, Ind girl who 
underwent surgery to remove a basketball-sized abdominal tumor may die, bringing the number of medical-neglect deaths linked to a small fundamentalist church to at least 26, the Fort Wayne News­Senti~el reports. lfLeah Dawn Mudd doesn't recover from Tuesday's operation, she will be the second child to die from medical neglect in her family alone and the second child ofa Faith Assembly member to die since last Monday, theNews-Sentinel said in a copyright story Saturday. "I was shocked when I saw her," said a Fort Wayne physician who asked not to be identified. "She'd lost so much weight that she looked like a little prisoner ofwar. "On her abdomen there was a massive turr.or at least as large as a basketbatl," he added. "It was so big that she had trouble breathing. I'm sure she was in pain." 
-AP 

Florida nudist groups have decided to chanenge the state's indecent exposure law by having members bat~:e in the buffand appeal any resulting convictions. The nudists held their first statewide meeting in Kissimmee Saturday at Cypress Cove resort. They contend the lack ofdesignated nude beaches encourages gaw­kers who do more to disrupt the public peace than the nudists. The naturalists say police incorrectly interpret state law by considering simple nudity to be lewd and lascivious conduct. The nudists proposed user fees for nude beaches and said the public should vote on establishing areas where clothing would be optional. "Nude is not lewd," said Jim Badley, 57, ownerofCypress Cove and past presi­dent of the American Sunbathers Association. Bob Nelson of West Palm Beach, head ofFlorida Free Beaches, said 500 people-includ­ing folk singer Arlo Guthrie -signed petitions recently in favor of designated nude beaches. -AP 
The reSCUe planad ..-anced by liberal Democrats on the Social Security reform panel includes the notion that eventually benefits would no longer be tax-free, the plan's uchitect says. Robert M. Ball, a former commissioner of Social Security, em­phasized in an interview with The AssociatedPress on Friday that a tax on Social Security benefits would have to be phased in over ~everal decades and would not be levied on people now rt •ired or about to retire. But Ball said that if workers are allowed a new income tax .deduction or credit for the amount they pay to Social Security, "the other side of that is when you retire, for people who had that favorable treatment. you would begin to tax the benefits." Several groups have proposc:d in recent years that retirees pay income tax on the half of their benefits that stemmed from employers-' payroll taxes. Employers and employeeseach pay a tax of 
6.7 percent. -AP 

variably cloudy todaywith a 60 percent chance of showers toward afternoon. llighs in the low 50s. Clearing and tur­ning colder tonight. Lows in the: low to mid 30s. Partly sunny tomor­row. High in the mid 40s. -..tP 
Monday, November 22, 1982-page 2 
Assessing the crunch 
It is impossible to estimate the value ofhigher educa­tion. The opportunity to expand horizons, to hone analytical and logical skills, to improve self-expression...a price cannot be attached to these privileges. There is, however, a way of calculating the costs of room, board, professors' salaries, building up­keep, etc. -and a portion of that cost must be paid by the student. 
In recessionary days, covering that cost is more of a problem, a problem that is compounded by the shrinkage ofavailable aid to finance the pursuit ofhigh­er learning. 
With this in mind, the news department at The·Ob­seroer set out to explore the ways and means of combating rising costs and dwindling aid, and are now proud to present a two-part news special on the finan­cial aid crunch at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
The idea for the supplement was suggested in early September by Kelli Flint, then executive news editor. Kelli, News Editor Bob Vonderheide, and myself met with NO Financial Aid Director Joseph Russo, and began asking questions about what forms of financial aid are available, where, and how to go about getting them. 
What followed was more 
than a dozen story ideas, 
reporter assignments, inter­StUDENT FINANCIAL AID We were told that while a views, more interviews, lawsuit involving the format editing. pictures, graphics, of the applications delayed layout, and a headache or the printing ofthe 1983-84 two. 
forms, the applications will The goal was to feature all be available next month. sources of financial aid -The forms should be filled from loans to scholarships to out after Jan. 1, and must be jobs in the dining hatls -returned by March 1. and to see hc-w students can (Financial aid officials at find out if they are eligible Saint Mary's and Notre for assistance, and how they Dame suggest that the forms can take advantage of be filed by mid-February at eligibility. the latest.) What could be The finished product, half simpler? 
of which begins today on There you have it, just a 
TIID VerceUotli 
News Editor 

--------.-d--M-----d~-·­
lnsl e on ay 
Mary's. 

•Student 
tultlon makes up the bulk of the Notre Dame'seducational and general revenues ( 76 percent). 

• 
All ND bookstore profits go back to the University, and, along with tuition, are used in the payment of the University's bills. 

•Commercial 
firms that promise new, undiscovered sources offinancial aid in exchange for a mere S35-S45 insist that they are legitimate, though financial aid directors have their doubts. NO Financial Aid Director Russo followed up on some of his doubts and came up with some surprising information, information that he thinks may be ofinterest to the National Association of Student Financial Aid Administrators. 


•The application process for financial aid is shame­fully simple, in spite ofall of the rumors to the contrary. 
page eight, with the remain­der in tomorrow's Observer, is the result of the efforts of 23 reporters, copy editors, photographers and typeset­ters, all coordinated by News Editor Vonderheide, who is now a walking font of information on financial assis­tance. 
What did we find? Some of the information was ex­pected, some surprising. Here's a sampling. 
•Federal 
financial aid is drying up. There's nothing new here. Federal regulations make it more difficult now for a student with a family income of above 530,000 to get a Guaranteed Student Loan, and the cuts may continue. If they do, one NO financial aid coun­selor predicted that future program cuts could mean the disqualification of graduate, law and professional students from the loan program, or an increase in the surcharge for the loan. 

•The 
confirmation rate for accepted Notre Dame ap­plicants is down, because of less available institutional funds for use as financial aid. Across the street at Saint Mary's, the acceptance rate is also down, but the results of a "cancellation questionaire" indicate that cost was not a major factor in the decision not to attend Saint 



few of our findings, and 
there's more on page eight. 
The pursuit of knowledge is 

a noble pastime...but it is undeniable that the pursuit is painfully expensive. I think we've provided some in­formation that may ease the pain. 
It is difficult to find a theme that ties all of this in­formation together. One underlying conclusion, however, is that the financial aid offices at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are filled with people who want to help 
students in the battle against increasing costs and decreasing financial assistance. That battle may be tough (and may get tougher), but students have an ally in the financial aid office. 
The results of this investigation paint a bleak picture of financial aid; the financial aid offices at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's provide some hope. But don't take my word for it, turn to page eight and see for yourself, and 
keep an eye out for tomorrow's installment. This news special has information that students literally cannot af­ford to miss. 
The~Observer The All-American Box Design Editor ............J.P. Apple Pie Keyes Design Assista11t .............. Red, Pete white, and Blue-Tom Sapp Chek Typesetters ................................ Arthur Dent News Editor........................... Dave America Copy Editor................................. Cathy Ross NO Day Editor .....................Joe Columbus Features Layout.................................. Ubby· Cleanliness is next to godliness Editorials Layout ................... Knute neely Sports Copy Editor................ Chris !tevere Typist ................................. Statue of Monica Ad L"sign ....................... Mary Washington Pbotograpber.......................Lucian Arnold Guest Appearances ............... Boat Balincia Ryan -the purityprotecter.  
The Observer !USPS 598 920) 1s pubhshed Monday through Fnday. and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer 1s published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys Col· lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by. wntmg The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 The Observer 1s a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved Second ciass postage pa•d at Notre Dame Indiana 46556  


----------------~--­
.r--------------~-----------------------·--------­
The Observer Monday, November 22, 1982 -page ' 3 
--------------------------------------------------------------~ 


NBC correspondent 
Ne-wtnanto speak onjournalistn 
NBC news correspondent Edwin John E. Swearingen, Chairman of by Professor Lerner at 11 a.m. Newman will speak on "A jour-the Board of Directors of Standard Everyone is invited to attend all nalist's Responsibility" in his Oil Company (Indiana), will con-conference discussions. Luncheons keynote address tonight at 8 in the tinue the session on News Media and and a dinner are included for those Center for Continuing Education, Business with his lecture on who have registered for the con­highlighting the two-day con-"Responsibility in journalism: A ference. ference, "The Responsibilities of Business Perspective." The program, planned over the Journalism" which began today. Monday's conference agenda con-summer, is directed by Professor 
The conference began this morn-eludes with Newman's keynote. Robert Schmuhl of the American ing with a session titled Studies Department. Sponsored by "Fundamental Considerations." It the Center for the Study of Man in 
cooperation with the Institute for
featured speakers Elie Abel, the Har­
Pastoral and Social Ministry, both of
ry and Norman Chandler Professor 
Notre Dame, the conference was
of Communication at Stanford Uni­
made possible by a grant from the
versity, Jeff Greenfield, CBS News 
Gannett Foundation ofNew York.
media critic, and Max Lerner, the Welch Visiting Professor of American Studies at Notre Dame. 
All conference lectures and dis­
Today's schedule of events at "The cussions will take place in the CCE Responsibilities of journalism Con­auditorium. ference." All events will be held in 
Continuing this afternoon, the the Auditorium, Center for Continu­conference includes two sessions on ing Education. All members of the the news media's involvement in Notre Dame-Saint Mary's com­government and business, munity are welcome. respectively. The first session begins Session II: The News Media and at 1:30. Georgie Anne Geyer, colum­Government, 1:30 p.m. nist for Universal Press Syndicate Chair -David C. Leege will speak on "Journalists: The New The conference continues tomor­Director, Center for the Study of Targets, The New Diplomats, The row, Nov. 23, at 9:15 a.m. with a Man in Contemporary Society New Intermediary People." journalistic "hypothetical case"; this Professor, Government and Interna­
After Geyer, Robert]. McCloskey, discussion features John Powers, tional Studies Ombudsman for The Washington managing editor of The South Bend University ofNotre Dame Post, will speak on "The Executive Tribune; John Craig, editor of The Branch and The Fourth Branch." Pittsburgh Post-Gazette; Lisa Sowle "Journalists: The New Targets, the McCloskey is also the former U.S. Cahill, Associate Professor ofTheol­New Diplomats, the New Inter­Ambassador and Deputy Assistant ogy at Boston College; Rev. Edward mediary People" 
PALERMO, Sicily (AP) -Pope young people rejected the Mafia Secretary ofStatefor Press Relations. Malloy, Associate Provost and As­Georgie Anne Geyer John Paul II, answered with ringing mentality ofdrugs and violence. After a short break, the second sociate Professor of Theology at Columnist, Universal Press Synd­applause, issued a parting attack on The pope, however, dropped a session of the afternoon begins at Notre Dame; and Rev. Oliver Wil­icate the Mafia before leaving Sicily yes­passage from his prepared text in 3:30 with Leonard Silk, Economics liams, Adjunct Associate Professor of terday. which he expressed support for an Columnist for The New York Times Management at Notre Dame. "The Executive Branch and the 
He also encouraged the island's anti-Mafia campaign by Palermo's who will lecture on "The Ethics and The conference concludes with a Fourth Branch" young people to reject corruption, Roman Catholic bishops that in­Economics ofJournalism" summation and discussion delivered Robert]. McCloskey drugs and violence, and to build a cludes excommunication for those Ombudsman, The Washington Post society in which "the ramifications commmmg murder and other of the Mafia attitude of some violent crimes on this island of5 mil­Session III: The News Media and 
(Sicilians) are isolated and lion people. Business, 3:30 p.m.


Housing allocates 
destroyed." He also dropped mention of the Chair -). D' Arcy Chisholm Ending a two-day visit to this persistence of "omerta," the tradi­Assistant Director Mafia stronghold and center of a tional code ofsilence that keeps wit­Institute for Pastoral and Social Min­
money }ordorms 
multi-million dollar heroin traffic to nesses from coming forward against istry the United States, the pontiff said the Mafia and allows it to operate vir­ByTOMMOWLE is Lyons Hall, which does not have University ofNotre Dame drugs "strike a hatchet blow at the tually unchecked. News Staff any social space. Lyons's funds will roots oflife." The Vatican spokesman, the Rev. be used for improving its kitchen. "The Ethics and Economics ofJour­
Speaking from a bandstand in a Romeo Panciroli, told The As­Atotal of 59,109 has been given to The procedure followed by the nalism" central square before thousands of sociated Press in Rome the pope did dorms by the Department ofStudent dorms is different this year than it Leonard Silk young people the 62-year-old pon­not deliver part of his speech be­Residences in annual matching has been in the past. Each hall Economics Columnist, The New tiffs anti-Mafia remarks drew cause · he was running behind funds appropriations. presented a proposal of the amount York Times prolonged applause from the crowd. schedule and wanted to save time. The money, which was assigned ofmoney it would be able to raise to 
Before he spoke, a teen-age girl The pope later arrived at Rome's shortly before October break, will Jorge Valencia, student government "Responsibility in Journalism: A told him in brief remarks delivered Ciampino military airport after a 67-be used in most dorms for improv­housing commissioner. Valencia Business Perspective" before the crowd that Palermo's minute flight from Palermo. ing social space. The only exception chose proposals to be matched by John E. Swearingen 
the University according to Chairman of the Board of Directors guidelines given him by Father Mic­and Chairman of the Executive hael Heppen, Director of Student Committee, Standard Oil (Indiana)
Recentcontests 
Residences. The University limited the social Session IV: Keynote Address space appropriations to SlO,OOO. Chair -Harry Kevorkian 


Bzgbucks attract votes, win elections 
Valencia asked the hall presidents to Director of Telecommunications limit their proposals to ap­and Broadcast Standards 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The big While Dayton, the No. 1 in­more than S 1 million beating Mar­proximately $500. All of the WNDU-TV bucks races of the 1982 elections dividual spender, lost, the No. 2 garet Heckler, a Republican thrown proposals involving social space may have created a new political spender, Republican Pete Wilson of i.ito the same district with him by were met. "A journalist's Responsibility" myth -the mistaken idea that California, won. Wilson beat No. 3 reapportionment. Their race may In past years, the appropriations Edwin Newman money isn't so important after all. spender, Democrat Edmund G. turn out to be the new record hol­process was handled by the student Correspondent, NBC News 
As a matter of fact, money still Brown Jr., after outspending him by der, with her nearly 5700,000 added government through the Board of Author of Strictly Speaking and A 
talks in politics as loudly and about $1.2 million. in. Trustees at their fall meeting. Civil Tongue decisively as ever, despite some Between them, Wilson and Brown multi-millionaire losers in the Nov. 2 spent more than 59 million. It voting. Most of the candidates who probably will reach Sl 0 million 
were able to outspend their op­when all the reports are in, but ponents won, according to figures either way it would be a record for a provided by the Federal Election Senate race, ahead even of the Min­Commission. nesota contest. 
This continuing fundamental rule That takes us to the No. 4 Senate of the game was cast into doubt by spender, Sen. Lloyd Bentsen, D­the highly visible exceptions. Didn't Texas, who paid $3.8 million to keep Texas Gov. William Clements sink his job. The No. 5 spender also won, n 2. 5 million into a losing re­Frank Lautenberg, who spent $4 mil­election bid against Mark White? and lion for a New jersey Senate seat. what about the S 14 million loss of So, ofthe top five, two lost but one Lewis Lehrman to Mario Cuomo in of those was outspent by the man the gubernatorial race in New York? who beat him. 
Department store heir Mark Looking at the House races from Dayton spent S5.7 million trying in the top down, it looks like money vain to oust David Durenberger lost, but again the glamour races from a Minnesota Senate seat. don't tell the whole story. 
These were record breakers. Both The biggest spender in a House New York and Texas beat the old race was millionaire real estate heir record for most expensive guber· Adam Levin, who paid $1.2 million, natorial campaign and the Dayton­and most ofit out ofhis own pocket, Durenberger spending passed the in a New Jersey loss. Incumbent old mark for a Senate race. Republican Matthew Rinaldo was 
But these were exceptions. forced to spend half a million in self­
Let's look at the other big spen­defense. ders among candidates in this year's Next on the House list was Rep. 33 Senate races. Barney Frank, D-Mass., who spent 


Students Against Drunk Driving (SADD) met Drugged Driving Awareness Week, which will be yesterday in the Hofman Lounge in Keenan Hall held December 14-18. (Photo ,._ Lucian to discuss plans for the National Drunk and Nieme:rerJ 
.....--~-.-----------------------------~ 

MOSCOW (AP) -The new Soviet leadership, acting swiftly after the death of Leonid I. Brezhnev, is expected in the next few days to name a new president, fill vacancies in the ruling Communist Party Polit­buro and set out the plan for next year's economy. 
Yuri V. Andropov, 68, already named to succeed Brezhnev as the party's general secretary, is widely believed poised to assume the large­ly ceremonial presidency, con­solidating his hold on power. 
Other leading candidates for the job ofhead ofstate are thought to be Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromko, 63, and Brezhnev protege Konstantin U. Chernenko, 7I. 
Brezhnev took control of the party immediately after ousting Nikita S. Khrushchev in I964, but he 
United Steelworkers conduct a rally across from the William 
did not become president until 
Penn Hotel in Pittsburgh where the union's executive board held a 
I977 when he took that job from 
private meeting Friday. The board discussed a new contract that 
Nikolai V. Podgorny.
will replace the currentpact which expires in August 1983. (AP) 
Today, the party's Central Com­


mittee is expected to hold its second meeting in I 0 days to fill up to three 
~ ~­

The Observer Monday, November 22, 1982 -page 4 
/

Economic scheme 
Politburo to meet,plan future 
CORBY'S 

Thanksgiving Week Schedule 
• 
: mONDAY: 
•
•• TUESDAY: 
: 
Outward Bound is more than a trip ofhigh adventure. 
It's discmoering yourself. Learning that you're better than you thinkyou are.

I 
And fmding out how to work 
i 
with others. Comejoin us on a 3-week trip ofexcitementand self-challenge. 
You may come back a better you. 

monday Night Football (michelob Night Sl.OO) margarita Night 11.00 (free nachos 4-9) 
: WEDNESDAY: mixed Drink Night : (open at noon) Cocktails Sl.OO 
• THURSDAY:  "HAPPY THANKSGIVING"  
:(open8pm)  Pitchers S2.50  
: FRIDAY: •• SATURDAY:  Little Kings 80c N D vs. Southern Cal.  

the political heat and the political
:Go IRISH, BEAT TROJANS!!!: sacrifice" to take on the organized veterans lobby and its congressional friends. 
"There arc some people in the House and the Senate who I wouldn't want to name but who un­derstand that something should be done, but they are outnumbered by those who are political opportunists and who will demagogue any issue to get the veterans' vote," he said. 
Nimmo has announced his resignation and plans to depart when a successor is confirmed. 
"Our ability to rehabilitate people and get them back into employable status has changed enormously and yet we're paying out millions ofdol­lars in continuing disability pay­ments for such things as sinusitis, hemorrhoids and hysterectomies that are not disabling," Nimmo said. 

"Even though the problem has
Haag inthel'el 
Sead for_.., iDformatioo: 
been taken care of and people are 
Name 
Street 

TOWARD YOUR FUTURE
City State Zip 
STEP 

School 
You took an important step in your life when you entered the Nursing Profession. Now is the time to set 
Check the courses that interest you: 
goals that will affect your future career. As a select member of the Air Force's early commitment program, 


canoeing -
WhiteWater Rafting Sailing Cycling 
Outward Bound, Dept. CH.. 
:-384 Field Point Rd. Greenwich, CT 06830 Phone toll free (800) 243-8520 
No experience necessary 
• positions in the ruling Politburo, to
•
• 
study reports about last year's 
agricultural and economic output 
and to endorse the plans in those 
sectors for next year. 
Although the task of naming the 
new president lies constitutionally 
with the leadership of the Supreme 
Soviet, or national Parliament, the 
Central Committee is thought to 
decide the question. In fact, the 
issue may already be settled. 
The Politburo has been stripped of its top three members since last January. Mikhail Suslov, the Kremlin ideologist and No. 2 man behind Brezhnev, died then; Andrei P. Kirilenko, the long-time Kremlin No. 3 man, reportedly retired or was ousted late last month, and Brezhnev died Nov. I 0. 
• Viewed as the most likely can­didates for advancement were Vladimir I. Dolgikh, 57, and Boris Ponomarev, 77. 
Andropov is said to be grooming Dolgikh, who has a successful back­ground in heavy industry, as a re­placement for Soviet Premier Nikolai A. Tikhonov, 77, a Brezhnev protege. 

Dolgikh presently is a nonvoting Politburo member, a member of its Secretariat and chief of the Central Committee's heavy industry depart­ment. 
Ponomarev is expected to be moved from candidate to full Polit­buro membership to assume the Politburo ideology portfolio. Andropov had been handling the job before he was named general secretary, and Suslov had it before him. 
In addition to settling leadership questions, the Central Committee is expected to okay next year's economic plan and study this year's performance figures. 
Traditionally, the nation's grain harvest was announced during the autumn Central Committee­Supreme Soviet sessions. But the 1981 grain figure was withheld, presumably because it was em­barrassingly low, marking the third straight year it fell far short oftarget. 
•

• VA Director says
•
•

• Millions in compensation wasted 
•
• 

WASHINGTON (AP) The
• 

director of the Veterans Administra­
• 

tion says millions ofdollars are being
• 

wasted in disability compensation
• 

paid to veterans who have no dif­
•

• ficulty holding down jobs. 
• 
The VA chief, Robert Nimmo, said in an interview last week that 
• 
reforms are needed in programs 
• 
providing benefits to many ofthe na­
• 
tion's 30 million veterans, to avoid 
• 
the kind offinancial difficulties con­
• 
fronting the Social Security system. 
But he said reforms probably can­not be achieved until a courageous President decides "that it is worth back at work, they are continuing to draw disability. There are lists of literally dozens ofconditions of that sort where we are continuing to pay disability based on a presumption that that person is X-percent un­employable when in fact he is working." 
His assertion that payments are made to veterans who suffer no loss in earnings drew a contradiction within his own building. 
Replying to questions, Bob Macomber, chief of the VA rating policy staff, said veterans are ex­amined three times over a five-year period to make certain their dis­ability has impaired their earning power. 
Macomber said such conditions as hemorrhoids, sinusitis and varicose veins can be so severe as to cut into a person's earning power. Payments are not made unless the condition is "chronic and persistently disabling," Macomber said. 
Nimmo, who has drawn criticism from veterans' leaders during 1 7 stormy months in office, said during a 90-minute interview that veterans' benefits, pensions and health care, if uncurtailed, are likely to triple the VA's $25 billion budget by the end of the century. 
About 2.2 million veterans -one American ofevery 100 -get VA dis­ability payments ranging from $62 to $1,213 a month. 
Compensation is available only when · the condition originated while the veteran was in uniform. 

Nimmo said most people assume that means the disability must result from a combat wound, while in fact it could have resulted from "an in­jury during a softball game on a weekend." 
• • .MX 

continuedfrom page 1 
There also is disagreement within the military community. Charles Townes, a Nobel-prize winning physicist who headed a Defense Science Board panel that studied the MX, has criticized the "dense pack" idea. 
He reportedly has raised the ob­jection that the Soviet Union will be able to develop technology to neutralize the hardened launch silos just as quickly as the United States builds them. 
Supporters argue the MX is needed because Soviet weapon technology has advanced to the point where Soviet missiles are capable of delivering a knockout 
punch to the U.S. land-based force of 1,052 Minuteman and Titan missiles still in their silos. 
More than 30 different MX basing modes have been studied since the program was originated in 1973. 
Desert 

you will be offered a five month nurse internship. This internship offers an excellent opportunity for a wide 
Expeditions 

variety of clinical experiences to the new graduate nurse. While developing your professional potential, 
Wildemess Backpacking 

you can enjoy all the benefits available to you as an Air Force Officer. 
Mountaineering _ 

PRESTIGE, RESPONSIBILITY, EXCELLENT STARTING SALARY with progression to 
$28,000 in 4 years, medical and dental benefits, 30 days vacation per year with pay, oppor­
tunities for travel, advanced education, plus the opportunity to specialize if you qualify. 
Consider a new challenge ... a chance to add substance and excitement to your life ... to serve your country ... and to explore a great way of life. Contact your local Air Force Nurse Recruiter to see if you 
Outward Bound admits students ofany 
qualify. call: SSgt. Gary Absher 
sex, race, color and national or ethnic 
origin. We are a nonprofit organization.
,.
,. 
USAF Recruiting Office 

Scholarships avaUable. 
513 North Michigan St., Suite 1 00-A South Bend, IN 46601 

CALL COLLECT 21g-2sg-601g 
..~~ot­

:J..-~~~ 1. ~ ~Outward Boun(f 
~..... ._'....,...· The course that never ends 
AIM HIGH-BE AN AIR FORCE NURS 
A great way of life . 
....-----­


change as "frank, cordial and substantive." Clip and save this schedule The Prat•da editorial, while. 
Ball

for easy travel planning!
repeating standard Soviet rhetoric about the country's ability to deliver To O'Hare From O'Hare a "crushing rebuff' to aggression, 
1882-1982
LEAVE This Col. ThiS Col. ARRIVE
stressed that improved U.S.-Soviet 
NOTRE Chicago Chicago NOTRE ties would meet the interests ofboth DAME Time Time DAME 
<Ont llutWrro lmrs: 
BUS ARRIVE LEAVE BUS SHELTER O'HARE O'HARE SHELTER llurning lllllitlt Jriilt,Jiirtil Bitt} £nt1}usiasm!
countries as well as those of the in­
ternational community. 
4:30a.m. 6:10a.m. B:30 a.m. 12:00 p.m.
"The Soviet Union is always ready 6:30a.m. B:15 a.m. 10:30 a.m. 2:00p.m. Older than St. Eds : for honest, equal and mutually 8:30a.m. 10:15 a.m. 12:30 p.m. 4:00p.m. 
10:30 a.m. 12:15 p.m. 2:30p.m. 6:00p.m. Fr. Heshu~gb h. d
beneficial cooperation with any com me
12:30 p.m. 2:15p.m. 4:30p.m. 8:00p.m. 
r. oyce

state which would want this. In par­2:30p.m. 4:15p.m. 6:30p.m. 10:00 p.m. F J 
4:30p.m. 6:15p.m. 8:30p.m. 12:00 a.m.
ticular with the United States. 
6:30p.m. 8:15p.m. 11:00 p.m. 2:30a.m. 
!:>!.joseph Lake 
"Normal and, better yet, friendly Soviet-American relations would SOUTH BEND TIMES UNLESS OTHERWISE INDICATED. 
The Notre Dame Marching Band 
EFFECTIVE 10/31/82.
meet the interests of both peoples 
CALL FOR COMPLETE LIST OF PICKUP POINTS & TIMES.
and universal peace," it said. Washington Hall The editorial combined language FOR RESERVATIONS 
Younger than St. Eds : 
used by Andropov and Soviet Premier Nikolai A. Tikhonov in 
(119) 155-3068 

Fr. Pedi~ combined 
separate speeches earlier in the Fr. Lardner/
OR CALL YOUR 

week. 
TRAVEL AGENT.

On another positive note, Pravda Sarin College said participants in the U.S.-Soviet 
The Notre Dame Football Team 
Trade and Economic Council meeting last week in Moscow 
Keenan\

showed an "inclination" for the type Stanford of cooperation necessary to im­Flanner . 
' 

prove trade links between the two Grace/combmed countries. PE 
PW

"Businesslike cooperation is a 
Lewis 

matter of sober-mindedness and 
J 

The Observer 
Islafllic guards storn1 government house 
BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) -An es­timated 500 Iranian Islamic Revolutionary Guards stormed the government house in the ancient city ofBaalbek yesterday and during a six-hour rampage tore down Lebanese flags raised over the build­ing on the eve of the nation's in­dependence day celebration. 
Meanwhile, U.S. presidential envoy Phillip C. Habib met with Moslem leaders to discuss the sporadic Christian-Moslell) fighting in the central mountains. 
Lebanese security forces told state television that gunmen at­tacked the government house in Baalbek at 6:30a.m. ( 11:30 p.m. EST saturday), overpowered the night guards and tore down the flags. 
State radio said the men lefi the buildingsix hours later but were still seen roaming the streets in Baalbek. No injuries were reported. 
Baalbek, with a predominantly Shiite Moslem population of2S,OOO, is 6S miles east of Beirut in the Syrian-controlled Bekaa Valley. In 
more  peaceful  times, its  Roman  
ruins  and  temple  attracted  
thousands oftourists.  

Since last summer, an estimated 300 Iranian Revolutionary Guards have filtered into the city, preaching Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini's Is­lamic revolution to Lebanese Shiites, Baalbek residents say. They entered Lebanon through Syria, an ally of Iran in its war with Iraq. 
Khomeini's revolution is a revival offundamental Islam and a rejection of what it sees as Western domina­tion. Iran has threatened to export the Islamic revolution to other na-
Soviet news hopeful about US-Soviet ties 
MOSCOW (AP)-In a frontpage mutual responsibility," . it said. editorial, the Communist Party "Inclination for such cooperation, as newspaper Pravda reiterated yes­has been shown, in particular, by the terday that the Soviet Union seeks meeting of the American-Soviet "normal, and better yet, friendly" Trade and Economic Council, is relations with the United States. manifest." 
The newspaper also said the More than 200 American ex­recent round of meetings in the ecutives and other business leaders Kremlin following the funeral of attended the meeting. Leonid I. Brezhnev had given '·new 
impetus" to the preservation and development ofdetente. The new Communist Party chief, 
CALL TODAY FOR 
Yuri V. Andropov, met for 30 minutes last Monday with Vice President George Bush and 
GUARANTEED 
Secretary of State George Shultz. Af­terward, Bush described the ex­
RESERVATIONS 
tions. 

Slogans of"Death to America" and "Death to Israel" are painted on walls in Baalbek. and in recent weeks, posters have gone up saying "Death to Amin" -a reference to Lebanon's Christian president, Amin Gemayel. 
Lebanon's state radio reported Habib started consultations with Lebanese political leaders and met leftist Druse Moslem leader Walid Jumhlatt and former Prime Minister Saeb Salam. A sunni Moslem, Salam played a key role in negotiations that led to the withdrawal of thousands of PLO guerrillas from west Beirut in August and September. 
The focus of Habib's latest round 
of talks will be the withdrawal of 
Syrian, Palestinian and Israeli troops 
from Lebanon. The radio said Habib 
will go to Syria and Israel after 
talking with Lebanese leaders. 
Syria has 35,000 troops in the 
Bekaa Valley and northern Lebanon. 
Syrian troops entered Lebanon on an 
Arab League peacekeeping ·mandate 
after the 1975-6 Civil war between 
Christians and an alliance of Pales­
tinians and leftist Moslems. 
The Palestinians still have 6,000 
to 10,000 guerrillas operating be­
hind Syrian lines in eastern and 
northern Lebanon. 
The Israelis have an occupation force of an estimated 35,000 troops in southern Lebanon. The area had been the Palestine Liberation Or­ganization's main Middle East power base until Israel invaded Lebanon on June 6 to route the PLO following attacks on Israel's northern settle­ments near the Lebanese border. 
Monday, November 22, 1982-pag~ 5 
Looking into a crowd ofstudents, a Colum Ohio State area of High Street Saturday ev1~n1nf!. Ohio police officer points to a spot where be Thousands ofstudents gathered to celebrate the wants mace spray ted to bold back a crowd at the Buckeyes' upset over 13th ranked Michigan. (AP) 
Canadians involved 
Chrysler Corp./workers bargain 
DETROIT (AP)-Chrysler Corp. some SI 5 million a week. and the United Auto Workers union "Ifthere is any hope at all ofreach­prepare to return to bargaining ing a settlement before the tum of 
tables today in the United States and the year, it has to be done this way, 
Canada to end a 17-day-old simultaneously," UAW president Canadian strike and reach a new Douglas A. Fraser said. contract for 43,200 U.S. workers. Autoworkers will continue to 
The No. 3 domestic automaker seek an immediate pay raise, he said. and union will resume contract talks "(Chrysler officials) are going to in Toronto for the striking have to find it (money) some place, Canadians and in the Detroit enclave because this strike cannot be settled of Highland Park for workers in the in Canada and the negotiations can­United States. not be settled in the United States 
Some 10,000 Canadians walked without more money," Fraser said. out Nov. 5 after Chrysler rejected "They haven't got any more money their demand for an immediate wage today than they had when we increase. The company said it could previously broke off, but they're not afford a raise, and talks col­simply going to have to readjust lapsed. their budget and their expenditures 
U.S. contract talks fell apart Oct. to make some sort of economic ac­18 over the same issue. Workers comodation." voted against a strike but in favor of Economics will not be discussed recessing talks untilJanuary. during the first few days. Officials 
However, some 4,600 U.S. said Canadian and U.S. talks today workers have been laid off in recent will focus on non-economic items, weeks because of production cut­such as seniority rights, union backs because of the strike, and representation and absenteeism analysts estimate Chrysler is losing provisions. 
Fraser, who will be in Belgium early this week, said he would not JOm the negotiations until economics are brought up. 
Union officials said they could not predict the length ofthe talks. 
"Obviously, the sooner you can settle, the stronger the company's position will be financially," Fraser said. "So it's to our advantage to settle as quickly as possible." 
Chrysler workers in both countries earn an average S9.07 an hour in wages. Because of the dif­ferent currency, however, Canadian workers earn an equivalent to S7.48 
U.S. an hour. 
Canadians, who will remain on strike while talks are held, insist upon gaining some equity in pay. 
Chrysler, which lost S3.27 billion from 1979 to 1981, has earned S266.6 million in the first nine months of 1982. Most of that was from the sale of its defense sub­sidiary. 
~--­

The Observer Monday, November 22, 1982 -page 6 

Child dies 
Baby's liver transplant fails 
INDIANAPOLIS, ln. (AP) Funeral arrangements are scheduled for tomorrow for 1-year-old Wesley Wright, who died last week after a liver transplant operation. 
Wesley's father, Joseph, said ar­rangements were finalized yester­day, as the parents began looking to the future. 
"I hope a lot ofpeople have heard about Wesley's tragedy," Wright said. "My main goal right now is to let people know we need more transplant centers in the United States, and we need more donors," he said. 
Wesley's liver was deformed by biliary artesia, a condition in .which ducts needed to carry bile to the small intestine are missing. The con­dition occurs in about one in every 10,000 babies with death resulting usually before age 2. 
Wesley died Friday after a transplant at the University of Pitts­burgh Children's Hospital -one of three U.S. hospitals that perform liver transplants. The others are at the universities of Minnesota and Tennessee. 
"Hopefully some good's going to come out of it," Wright said. 
"I hated to lose my son. I'm going to miss him. I'm not going to dis­courage people from going over and trying it (a transplant). I've seen too many successful ones." 
Wesley received the liver of an unidentified North Dakota child in a 13-hour operation that ended last Wednesday. Until Wesley's death Friday night, doctors had been searching for another donor to replace the non-functioning liver the child received. 
Wright said there's only a 30 per­cent transplant failure rate in children. 
"He was in the wrong percent," Wright said. "He never suffered a 

minute. Basically he just went to sleep." 
Wright said he and his wife, Bever­ly, thought their child would die before he was a year old, but he thought he would never forget his son. 
"There probably won't be a day the rest ofmy life I won't think about it," he said. 
Funeral services are scheduled for 10 a.m. tomorrow at Shirley Brothers Mortuary in Indianapolis, with burial at Washington Park Cemetery after a brief service in the chapel there, Wright said. 
Wright said he wants to race cars and help the American Liver Foundation. 
"Something's got to be done. There's plenty oflivers and plenty of 
hearts.  In  10  years  from  now  
transplants  are  going  to  be  com­ 
monplace," he said.  

In bank scandal 
Vatican escapes loan obligation 
,.• 
( 
1­
~­
~ 
!'l 
j' 
h i 
I 
ROME (AP) -Three independ­ent financial experts have con­cluded the Vatican bank is not obligated to cover loans that led to the collapse of an Italian bank in a major scandal, Cardinal John Krol of Philadelphia said yesterday. 
Krol's remarks in a telephone in­terview were the first high-level confirmation that experts requested by the Holy See had cleared the Vatican bank and its American presi­dent, Archbishop Paul C. Marcinkus, of any wrongdoing in dealings with Banco Ambrosiano, Italy's largest private bank. 
The 72-year-old Krol was in Rome for a three-day meeting of a I 5 car­dinals examining the Vatican budget and bureaucracy. He said the Vatican bank, known officially as the Institute for Religious Workers, had been "exploited" by officials of 
Dec. 8 Rosemont Tickets and Bus Packages Available uBelieve in Music Ticket Agency" 
*******--~----------c_a_ll_2_7_7_·_0_8_8_6______________ 
Banco Ambrosiano. 
"In this sense, the lOR is a victim," the cardinal said. Those who say the Vatican bank owes money to Ambrosiano's debtors, he said, "ignore documented facts." 
The controversy centers on the Vatican bank's role in connection with 51.2 billion in loans that the late Banco Ambrosiano President Roberto Calvi arranged for Panamanian companies, which were unable to repay them. 
Some Italian officials and newspapers have charged that the Vatican bank is at least partly respon­sible for repaying the loans since they were covered by a so-called let­ter ofpatronage -similar to a letter of reference -from Marcinkus to Calvi. 
Marcinkus, 60, also received a let­ter from Calvi releasing the Vatican bank from any responsibility for the loans. 
But Krol said "documented facts" sh9w the letter of patronage was issued· after-,all· the transactions of Banco Ambrosiano had taken place. 
Financial and government sources have said Calvi used the let­ter of patronage not to obtain the loans-made before 1978-but to stall other banks demanding repay­ment. 

They said the English-language letter gives the impression that the Vatican bank had an interest in the Panamanian companies, in effect vouching for their creditworthiness and calming the creditor banks. 
The letter from Calvi to Mar­cinkus was not made public until af­ter the controversy erupted, which some banking officials have called a poor business practice because it made the letter of patronage ob­solete and misleading. 
Krol said he has not read the final report of the three experts -an American, a Swiss and an Italian ­but that he was "familiar" with their findings. 
The three were called in by the Holy See in July to examine the Vatican bank's books following criticism from the Italian govern­ment and press. 
Marcinkus, Pope John Paul Il's close adviser and bodyguard, has denied any wrongdoing. He also maintains the letter he wrote to Calvi was not a guarantee. 
One-year-old Wesley Wright, who underwent a liver transplant earlier this week in Pittsburgh, died Friday night because his new organ failed to function. This photo was taken two weeks ago before Wesley wentfor the transplant. See story at right. ( AP) 
Ihe~r 

APPLICATIONS now be_ing accepted for the position of ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR. 
This is a paid position. Call Dave at 239-7 4 71. 
U.S. Envoygives massacre testimony 
JERUSALEM (AP) -Special U.S. envoy Morris Draper angrily accused Israel of responsibiliry for the Beirut massacre immediately af­ter the killings were known, an Is­raeli Foreign Ministry official testified yesterday. 
Bruce Kashdan, the ministry's liaison in Beirut, said he received a telephone call from Draper demand­ing the atrocity be stopped. He also said Draper's call "was the first we heard something concrete about the massacre." 
Kashdan testified before a three­member Israeli judicial panel probing Israel's possible involve­ment in the Sept. 16-18 mass killings of Palestinians by Christian militiamen in west Beirut's Sabra and Chatilla refugee camps. 
There was no immediate response 
to the testimony from U.S. officials. 
Israel television has reported the 
panel has no plans at this point to 
seek testimony from American offi­
cials. 
Israel forces then controlling west 
Beirut said later they had let the 
militiamen into the camps with the 
aim of flushing out Palestinian guer­
rillas, not killing civilians. The 
militias backed Israel's June 6 inva­
sion oflebanon to rout the Palestine Liberation Organization from its Beirut stronghold. 

Prime Minister Menachem Begin has denied Israeli responsibiliry for the atrocity, but public outrage over possible Israeli involvement forced him to convene the special inquiry commission. 
Kashdan told the commission that Draper's call came at 10 a.m. Sat., Sept. 18, three hours after the Chris­tian militias withdrew from the camps. 
He said Draper asked him to transmit this message to Defense Minister Ariel Sharon: 
"You must stop the massacres. They are obscene. I have an officer in the ( Chatilla) camp counting dead bodies. You ought to be ashamed. The situation is rotten and terrible. They are killing children. You are in absolute control of the area and therefore have a respon­sibility for that area." 
Kashdan said his first contact with Draper was Friday evening Sept. 17, when the U.S. envoy relayed rumors that unidentitled soldiers were kill­ing patients in the Akka hospital in west Beirut. 
---------------------~----­
--------;-] 
q 
j 
J 
Editorials 
Monday, November 22, 1982 -page 7 
Kanury blast project: reassessing responsibility 
This is the first of a two-part series on the responsibilities and implications of the A. '11urty Kamtry atomic test blast project. The project. funded by the Department of Defense, surrounds the question of whether "'the test blast ofa scale-model city built in a 
Western desert is the most effective means of studying how a nuclearexplosion would af­fect a modern city.·· 
Paul McGinn 
Roper Review 

Ever since A. Murty Kanury's test blast project was made public la.~t August, many have been reconsidering the University's stand on war. In a seemingly contradictory stance, the University has penned its approval ofa nuclear weapons freeze declaration while still defending Kanury's right to pursue his S49,730 investigation. 
When questioned about this double stan­dard, Father Hesburgh replied that he believed that the test and the signing of the declaration were consistent. 
But can both ofthese positions truly be con­sistent? Can we, as a university, decry the hor­rors of atomic warfare while harboring an atomic project which determines the effects ofa nuclear cata.o;trophe? Can this Catholic in­stitution defend a project, the results ofwhich may provide "reciprocal information" to the Defense Department for offensive purposes? 
This general line of questioning has been met by an all too simple answer: Kanury's research is purely scientific. Kanury is a scien­tist doing his job. The responsibility of the University and of Kanury for the results ofthe project ends when the facts of the experi­ments leave the premises of the University. 
These replies are but utter garbage. 
Kanury, the University, and the scientific community are responsible not only for the proper dissemination of the facts of the test, but for the ultimate use of those facts. Moral responsibility does not end ·after the final report; responsibility remains as long as the facts of the project are "interpreted" by the Defense Department. When an individual or institution signs his name to an act, he accepts all the responsibility ofsuch an act. 
Modern history tells us of the mad scrambles for such irresponsible "scientific" contracts. During the Nazi era in Germany, companies haggled, pursued, and contributed to Nazi administrators in hopes that their companies would be chosen to design and construct the ovens, fixtures and wherewithal ofthe death camps. 
While the Holocaust continued, the supply­ing corporations contributed their expertise and materials for vast sums of money. They also acknowledged the eventual use of their products. But when World War II ended, cor­porate heads claimed that they were not responsible for the 9 million deaths because their companies only delivered merchandise. Since they did not actually pull any triggers or 
. push any buttons, the company leaders claimed innocence from any charges of moral culpability. 
And while such a comparison between the Holocaust and the possibility ofcontributing to a nuclear war may seem unjust to Kanury and to the University, one cannot deny that the moral responsibility for both actions is in great question. 
Individuals and groups are ultimately responsible for the present nuclear threat. In­dividuals and groups must work to defuse that threat. But is an indictment of Kanury and the University practical? 
Kanury is a gifted scientist, well-respected intellectually and morally by members of his department. But while we can separate the in­dividual from his work, we cannot separate the individual from his ultimate social respon­sibility. There is no doubt that Kanury reached his decision to begin the project only after an arduous inner struggle, and perhaps he is morally justified in his research. 
But the elements of doubt inherent in this experiment cast a staggering shadow upon the respectability of the University. The slightest hint ofimplicit cooperation with the Department of Defense is disastrous to the in­tellectual and moral responsibility of the Uni­versity. "And we cannot afford even the slightest chance that Notre Dame could pos­sibly be held responsible for World War III. 
Tomorrow: The implications of the Kanury project. 
P.O. Box Q  
HPCthanks Roemer for cooperation DearEditor: On Tuesday, November 16, Dean of Stu· dents james Roemer addressed the Hall President's Council in Pangborn Hall. Dean Roemer discussed several topics, but the central issue was alcohol abuse on campus and possible administrative actions. In an October 18 letter to the HPC, Dean Roemer stated that his office had "had more problems with alcohol abuse so far this year than in any one previous entire year." The problem seemed to center around the use of grain alcohol and the playing of various drinking games. The letter expressed a con­cern about this increase in drunkenness and its accompanying dangers. Dean Roemer asked for the advice of the H.P.C. in this matter. saying, "Shoud we issue a directive that would legislate against these practices so that hall staff could make sure these destructive practices are not followed in the future? The H.P.C. addressed this letter at its Nov. 2 meeting. The hall presidents felt that such a directive would not address these issues effectively. The H.P.C. proposed an al­ternative policy, which we felt would be more effective: I )Grain alcohol and chug· ging contests would be outlawed from hall party rooms. Since the halls are the initiators of most campus social activities, this would successfully eliminate such practices from the mainstream of campus social life. The president supported this measure un­animously. 2 )Hall Council meetings and hall notes are the most effective way of disseminating accurate information ofthis type on campus. The hall presidents volunteered to address this issue in their meetings and to make Dean Roemer's position known. If the seriousness and extensive nature of the problem were made known, students would be less inclined to participate in such ac­tivities in their rooms. This past Tuesday night Dean Roemer expressed an interest in our opinions. He voiced his complete support for our actions  and assured us that his office would take no are also among the most prosperous: The tally disagree with one of his solutions, i.e. further action. Netherlands, Bermuda, Hong Kong, japan. the use ofcapital punishment as a solution to We would like to thank Dean Roemer for Low population offers no advantage either. this complex problem. consulting the H.P.C. (and other sources), Bolivia, with plenty of land and only four The basic problem with using capital on this matter. He sought student input and million people, is the poorest nation in punishment as a solution to the crowding was sensitive to student leaders' opinions. South America. prision situation is a moral one. If we use We hope the student body recognizes the Barry B. Burr capital punishmment, we are supposedly fairness and restraint with which Dean GraduateStudent, punishing. We, as a society, should be aiming Roemer handled these issues, and the impor­Business College to bring the criminal up to the level of the tance which he attached to the hall presi· society instead ofthe reverse. dents' opinions. Ifwe use capital punishment to get rid of The Hall Presidents' Council Seeing undesireable members of our society, i.e. the murderers and other criminals, then it may be used to get rid ofother people con­what you get sidered to be undesireable because theyFilling minds don't fit within the mainstream of society. Dear Editor: An example of this is Hitler's Germany, inwith jelly On November 8th I went to the Chicago which the use of capital punishment even· concert. I paid S11.50 for my ticket. When I tually led to the massacre ofsix million jews DearEditor: got to my seat I found that three days prior among others. Another moral issue involed No wonder so many students leave the someone had vomited on it. The seat had not with capital punishment is that each mem­university unable to perform honest labor. been cleaned. I was offered the alternatives ber ofthe society is willing to carry out the The university itself must accept some ofthe of either sitting directly in front of the sentence personally. blame for filling their ears with jellied non­speakers or on the floor directly in back of Another problem with capital punish­sense. the floor seating. Neither of these al­ment is that there is the chance that justice For example, the other night Professor ternatives was acceptable, Neither was will fail and an innocent person would be Charles K. Wilbur, chairman of the worth the price I paid for admission. I also executed. Ifthis did occur, then there would economics department, presented his as· had the alternative of getting a refund and be no way the family ofthis victim ofcapital sessment for all the hunger in the world not seeing the show -a wonderful way of punishment could be compensated for the today. As reported by The Observer making the cuswmer pay for the manage­lossoftheir loved one. Ifthere was no capital (November 17, page 3), he listed three ment's incompetence. punishment, then the innocent person reasons: overpopulation, inefficient produc­Perhaps new policies could be instituted. could be set free to live out the rest ofhis or tion, and lack oftransportation. Customers could be allowed to view their her life. Hogwash. People who think the seats prior to paying for their ticket. This Capital punishment doesn't produce transportation inadequate to move crops to could avoid the problem ofpaying fur seats deterrence for two reasons. The first ofthese market certainly find if sufficient enough to that have already been filled. Perhapsspecial reasons is that many criminals believe that transport themselves into the cities, the only discounts could be given to those willing to they have compelling reasons for doing the place where there is any hope to make a clean their own seats since the management crime. The second of these reasons is that buck. In many developing nauons, the seems so inept at accomplishing this task. once someone does commit a crime which government keeps food prices cheap, Luckily I found an empty seat. What about receives the death penalty, he orshe will not relative to the cost fo production, thus allay­the next unlucky person? feel compelled to stop committing crimes, ing the restless urban dwellers but destroy­Marty Carr which is understandable since the criminal ing any ~ncentive to farm. In Guyana and in Graduate Student can't receive greater punishment. This Zimbabwe, billboards and postage stamps ------------------­arguemeot was even brought up by Mr. rousing the populace to "Produce More Mowle. Food" don't increase production. The in­A minor problem with the use of capitalCapitalcentives of wherewithal do. punishment is that, at least recently, it has Professor Wilbur suggests tossing more been used as aform of glorified suicide. In money at the problem. Instead, as an punishmentfails four ofthe five executions that took place in economist, he ought to analyze the mis­the last few years, the criminal claimed to guided economic systems of these mal­DearEditor: want to be executed, and in fact in one ofthe nourished nations. I'm writing to reply to Tom Mowle's cases, the criminal was saved from a suicide As for overpopulation, where, Professor column of Nov. 13, 1982. Even though I attempt in order to be executed. Wilbur, is the evidence? Some of the most agree with Mr. Mowle that the overcrowd­Bii/Patt densely populated countries in the world ing ofthe prisions is a serious probtem, 1to-Holy Cross Hall  

--I-he--__ -.1..--Y~ --·---Editorial Board Department Manager:s
___ Q_--bs-e-..~er--­
"/ f,,. ()/",.,.,.,.,. ~~ an indcpcnden: ncw,p.!per puhl"lwd br rhc >tudcm' nf tlw Editor-in-Cbief. ............................. Michael Monk BusinessManager.............................Tony Aiello ntH·r,tty of Notre D.1mc duLl<" .tnd SJmt l\1.\r{' <.ollt·.t.:l· It does ~:ot lllH"\\Jrdy Jlanaging Editor................ Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller.............................................Eri<: Schulz rdlnt the polt<IC'' of the Jdmml'tr..lttor' of erthcr tmtitut1on. The new'" rq,ort Executil'e News Editor.............. David Dziedzic Advertising Manager................. : .....Chrio; Owen nl J' .ll<UrJtdr and .1~ ohrt,tl\dr ·" I'O'"bic. hlrtonJ!-rcpre~cnr the oprnwn of .\~'11C Executi11e Editor.... .......Margaret Fosmoe Production Manager..................Maura ~urphr .1 m.qonty of the hlttonJl Bo.nd. (o,nmmt.tm·'· opiniOn~ Jrl<l letter\ Hl" the news .\ports Fditor...................................Chris !'leedles Circulation Manager ..........................Ray Inglin 
of thctr author'. ( olumn Sf'J,c '' J\"Jtl.thk 1<1 .ill mcmhcr, ot the <Ornmuntt~·. JnJ Editorials Editor .............................Paul McGinn Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley the frce expre,saun of varymg opanaons on ~ampu), through letter), 11o en~ounged Features Editor ...................................Tari Brown # Photo Et.!itiJr .......................~ ...........Rachel .Blount 

Founded November 3, 1966 
,~------·-­
Monday, November 22, 1982 -page 8 News Special 
Insufficient aid affects admissions 
By MARK BOENNIGHAUSEN AND BOBVONDERHEIDE 
StaffReporters 

Insufficient financial aid is a prime cause for the recent decrease in the confirmation rate ofaccepted Notre Dame applicants, accord­ing to Notre Dame Director ofAdmissions John T. Goldrick. 
The confirmation rate, which has increased 
through the preceding decade to a high of66 
percent in 1980, dropped to 62 percent in 
1981 and was 59.5 percent this year. 

"We just don't have enough in­stitutionalized funds," Goldrick said in a recent interview, noting that cutbacks in federal aid have not helped the situation. 
Goldrick also said that the total cost ofa 
Notre Dame education has been steadily 
increasing during past years. 

Asurvey sent each year to every accepted student who decides not to come to Notre Dame reports that nearly 80 percent ofthese students do not choose Notre Dame because ofthe now S8,200 pricetag. The survey also shows that Notre Dame's academic reputation compares favorably with schools such as Harvard or Stanford. 
Although the lower confirmation rate is a "serious question" for Goldrick, the Univer­sity's confirmation rate is excellent when compared with the 30 to 35 percent average ofmost colleges. 
The enrollment ofminority students also is complicated by problems with financial aid. Pat Leonardo, assistant director for admis­sions, said financial aid is often a more serious problem for minority students. 
Although this year's freshman class of 177 minority students is larger than any previous class, a good portion ofaccepted minority stu­dents did not come. Leonardo said that ND financial aid packages are less than com­petitive and cause many ofthese students to reconsider Notre Dame. 
Leonardo added that it is difficult to recruit 
highly qualified minority students when there 
isn't a clear picture about financial aid 
packages. 

In a survey done during a two-year period, minority students who were accepted at Notre Dame and went elsewhere were asked 
'l1ffi CUTBMKOF NOIRE DAMS" 
0\iiO SThlE.. STA'NfOID..'YAl!.. 
WlSCONSINuiOWA... FRESNO .,_Z'&&_ ST~"UCL~~~U~R'J~D.. ClEVElhND 5\\.TE,"PB-lN ~I£ "'VIllb.NO~~~~ AR\ZONA." CAL ?:1..'{.. LSU~~~a..~ .. A.L~PAtMu'JEXAS lt(t1,,QUK£... Q£~...K~.. OBE<l\~ ., COLUMBlA.. KENT STAlE 
GIDRGll\"VIRCi\N\~"" ~.C~tU\NAJA\SS()JR\ '" 
-.--.-·­
W1t1P 
Saint Mary's dodges crunch 
By MIKE WILKINS 
Assitant News Editor 
Students who were offered but declined ad­
mission to Saint Mary's report that cost was 
not a major factor in their decision. 
Saint Mary's Financial Aid Director judith Casey said that a part ofan annual "cancellation questionnaire" asks these stu­dents about financial aid. "We hope to find if students did not accept our offer because of cost. We did not find much ofa difference this year." 
There has been a slight decrease, however, in the percentage ofstudents who are offered admission and then actually confirm the offer, according to Casey. She added that the rate is still relatively high compared with other col­leges. 
Mary Ann Rowen, director ofadmissions, said the number ofstudents enrolled at Saint Mary's has remained stable this year, although the effects of reduced financial aid have been noticed by the office. 
"I think the parents and students are more concerned," Rowen said, "They're being more cautious when they make the college decision. You really have to let them know why it is beneficial to attend this school." 
The answer for Saint Mary's is to continue to be the best college possible, Rowen noted. "We really have to continue stressing why it is beneficial to come to Saint Mary's College. I think right now people are more concerned with expenses and they want to be assured of quality." 
The average bill of 57,670 for tuition and room and board has not seemed to prohibit people from attending Saint Mary's. "It may be a side effect, but I don't think it is a direct ef­fect," Casey said. "It has complicated people's lives. People now have to find (financial) resources somewhere else." 
The solution for students who have problems meeting the cost ofSaint Mary's is to look for as much financial aid as they possibly can. "For those students who look into what financial assistance is available, they normally find enough to help them meet the cost ofcol­lege," Casey added. 
Where's the yvaiting list 
More students forfeiting college deposits 
Specialfrom The New York Times 

Private colleges across the country report 
that an unusually large number offreshmen 
changed their plans for going to college 
primarily because ofanxiety over their ability 
to pay for commitments made last spring. 
Institutions ranging from small black col­
leges in the South to Harvard and other Ivy 
League institutions reported a substantial in­
crease in the number ofstudents who ac­
cepted offers ofadmission and put down 
deposits, but then forfeited them. 

Dartmouth College, for example, normally 
assumes that up to 40 ofthe prospective fresh­
men who send in S100 deposits in May will 
not show up in Septmember. The reasons 
usually range from changing family cir­
cumstances leading them to go to another 
school to a decision to postpone college for a 
year. 1his fall, with a freshman class ofabout 
1,000 the figure was 59. 

"A lot offamilies devised what they thought 
was as workable financial scheme in March, 
and in the euphoria ofgetting in, they said 
they were coming," said Robert Loeb, dean of 
admissions at Lewis and Clark. "But then that 
summer job didn't come through, or the bank 
backed away from the commitment, or they 
just got scared. For many reality really set 
when the bill arrived for the first term." 
The increase in the number ofstudents who 
forfeited deposits is one ofseveral trends that 
are altering and complicating the college ad­
missions process. Even the most selective ~vate collegesare increasingly going to their to report the school in which they enrolled. 
Fifty-six percent ofthe surveyed students went to 15 different schools, including most ofthe Ivy League schools, Stanford, and the military academies. Most ofthe schools offer financial aid packages that meet full demonstrated need as determined by the Financial Aid Form, Leonardo said. 
It is tough to compete with schools that of­fer full need packages, added Leonardo. The University will always be able to attract stu­dents, but it is important to get the best and 
waiting lists to fill their classes, and admis­sions directors report that a growing number ofstudents are accepting the offers of more than one institution as a way ofkeeping their options open longer. 
The result is widespread uncertainty and anxiety among college admissions staff, high school guidance counselors and students that has led some families to reconsider some of their fundamental eduational expectations. 
james Rogers, director ofadmissions at Brown University, said such anxiety affects not only families with modest inco.nes but wealthy rmes as well. "We're finding parents 

Commentary 
who have always assumed that the second or third sons or daughters would go on to get a quality education," he said. "Then the first bill comes in, and they have to say that maybe they can't do it after all." 
The phenomenon ofincreased forfeiture of desposits by the freshman class over the sum­mer seems to have affeci.ed virtually every type ofprivate institution. Most officials in­volved say that the major faclOr is the economic situation and that it reflects doubts about whether students and their families can afford private colleges in the face ofsoaring tuition rates and declining federal assistance. 
In some cases, the Situation has lx:en wor­
Reprinted from Cleveland Press 

the right mixture. Leonardo hopes that in­
increasing financial aid will become a "very important priority ofthe University in the future." 
Goldrick is also concerned about the recruitment oftop students. He noted that it is impossible to define a quality university with­out a quality student body. The availability of institutionalized funds is a top priority for Goldrick and he thinks that the administration has recognized the problem and will make it one ofits top priorities. 
Rept·intedfrom the Nov. 5 Times
sened by the inability ofCongress and the Reagan administration to agree on a student assistance budget for the current year until af­ter the start ofclasses. 
(At Notre Dame this year, the Financial Aid office did not know the exact amount of federal money it had to work with until Oc­tober, long after students received notices of aid packages.) 
Well-endowed colleges can make commit­ments in May and keep them no matter how much money Washington sends, but most col­leges are not in that position. 
Admissions directors interviewed said that they had not yet had time to track down where the missing students went, but most assumed that at least some went to public in­stitutions, where tuition is considerably lower. The movement ofsome middle-class students from private to public colleges has been apparent for the last year. 
In addition to economics, the other major element in the increase in students' changing their plans is the ripple effect from those moving up to more selective, and in some cases more expensive, institutions as vacancies occur. 
"Harvard goes to its waiting list, which means that \Vesleyan has a vacancy, which in turn means that we ha' ·!'!:'and so on," said Loeb of Lewis and Cl:.<, 1t s a case of big fish eating medium fish eating small fish eating im­measurable sized fish." 
This domino effect has always been part of the admissions process, but this year was un­usual, admissions officers say, because withdrawals for economic reasons forced Harvard and other selective schools that nor­mallyclose theirwaiting lists in early summer to continue accepting students up until the last week ofAugust. 
__, 

... Administrators 
Continued from page 1 
Raising more money for financial aid is the "number one priority" for the Development office, according toJames Murphy, associate vice president for Public Relations, Alumni Af­fairs and Development. In a Nov. 6 ad­ministrative report, the Development office was asked to raise an additional S8 million for scholarships and loans. 
Yet despite such commitments, many stu­dents remain dissatisfied with the financial aid they receive from Notre Dame. Russo noted that it is impossible for an instituion to please all the students completely. 
But many students still wonder about the gap between their demonstrated financial need and the aid they actually receive. Some universities, such as Harvard orStanford, meet the full need ofa student as determined by the Financial Aid Form, but Notre Dame is not currently in such a position for all students. 
Russo said universities that meet full demonstrated need generally operate on a philosophy ofremitted tuition, where accord­ing to Russo the school charges a higher tui­L• ·11 price to make up for the money lost in offering more attractive aid packages. 
Notre Dame does not follow this policy, Russo said, and is thereforeable to keep tution lower than other top schools. All students at Notre Dame thus receive aid indirectly by lower tuition costs, Russo said. 
The Financial Aid office also lacks the finan­cial resources -both from the government and the University -to give out as much aid as schools who meet full demonstrated need, Tyson said. Notre Dame has made "great strides," Tyson thinks. He feels fairly com­fortable wi:h the aid picture at Notre Dame, 
and expects the trend to continue. • 



This financial aid supplement is the work oftwo months ofresearch, work and writing. Today's supplement analyzes the presentstatus offinancial aid here and nationwide, and reports the subsequent impact on admissions at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Tomorrow's supplement offers sug­gestions for students in their pursuit of financial aid, explaining both Uni­versity and federal programs for stu­dent assistance. 
Coordinator........................Bob Vonderheide Copy Editors ........................... Tim Vercellotti Margaret Fosmoe Photographers .........................Rachel Blount Scott Bower Lucian Niemeyer Typesetter ...................... : ..... Tom Maclennan 
Bruce Oakley Layout..................................Bob Vonderheide Artist.............................................Dennts Ryan Writers: Jack Amaro, Mark Boennighausen, John Coen, Don De Candia, Kathleen Doyle, Sarah Hamilton, john Hines, Holly Ann Hinshaw, Gail Kraft, Pat Malley, Tom Mowle, Cathy Pax, Mary Ann Potter, Vic Scuilli, and Mike Wilkin;; 
The financial aid game 
Financial A1d office is where it all starts 
By TOM MOWLE 
News Staff 

Financial Aid DirectorJoe Russo looked over the top ofhis glasses through his window that exposed the Notre Dame Band warming up for the Penn St. game. 
But only for a moment. Russo returned to the papers on his desk from where he com­mands the Financial Aid office and its S33 mil­lion annual budget in the game ofloans and grants, forms and finances that demands his constant attention. 
The Notre Dame Financial Aid office handles all applications from students and incoming freshmen for University aid and campus based federal assistance. The coun­selors who work there make decisions based on the need demonstrated by each applicant, and assign funds accordingly. 
But it isn't always easy. 

One perpetual difficulty facing the Finan­cial Aid office is that it never has as much money as it would like to be able to give out, especially in light offederal budget cuts to the Department ofEducation. Russo, however, said, "We have been able to continue to assist new applicants even though we've suffered the loss ofseveral thousand dollars." 
Because of the large number ofapplicants, Russo says the Financial Aid office is "sticking to deadlines in all cases. It is very important to get applications in on time." There are so many applications to process that the office cannot make special considerations. 
While the quantity offunds available for stu­dents is decreasing, the office does try to con· tinue to help students who are already receiving aid. 
The Financial Aid office works smoothly ­attached to the University's IBM computer system -as long as there are no bureaucratic slowdowns at the federal level. 
For example, the Financial Aid office did not know until after school started precisely how much money was available from the government for programs sttch as Work/Study, National Direct Studem Loans, and Pell grants. While federally supported, the Financial Aid office actually administers these programs. 
Another potential problem involves the printing of this year's Financial Aid Forms, which are used by about four million college students each year as an initial step in applying for aid. A lawsuit threatened to overhaul the format ofthe form, apd the Departmem of Education asked the College Scholarship Service to hold off releasing the forms until the suit was decided. 
Two weeks ago, however, the DOE aut· horized the printing, even though the case is not settled, in order to have the FAF ayailable to the public before the end ofDecember. The FAF is due afterJanuary 1 but before March I. 
Russo noted that most complaints from stu­dents or parents are the result of misun­derstandings. "The complaints may be justified, but we can't give out what we don't have." 
There are four counselors who handle in­dividual cases: Counselor ofStudent Employ­ment Sharon Veith, Counselor ofStudent Loans jane Kelly, Counselor ofScholarships and Grants Roseanne Molenda, and General Counselor FatherJoseph Carey. 
Russo said each counselor "has primary responsibility for an aspect ofthe program," although he orshe is a generalist :md can assist in other areas. 
News Special 
REVENUE 
Tuition, room and board 36.3% Endowment 6.3,. Gifts 23.8'!6 Other6.7'!6 Auxiliary enterprises 26.9'!6 


1982 Total $124 million 
Total Expenditures: $122 million 

~ Instruction and departmental research 27.9% Sponsor-ed research 9.9% Public ....-.ice 2.1% 
o1 Ubraries 3.1'!6 Stndent actM.tles 3.2% Physical plant 6.2'JI>
~:I 

General odministratlon 5.3% lnstltntional Expense 2.6'JI> Stndent Aid 8.9" 
Other2.~ 

Auxiliary Enterprises 28.0'JI> 
Monday, November 22, 1982-page 9 
Total Revenue: $15.76 million 
Total Expenditures: $14.54 million 
EXPENDITURES 
Tuition and fees 53.7'!6 Bookstore 3.8% Other-6.S% Endowment 3.-6% lnvatments 2.~ Gifts 9.5% Room U.S% Boar-d 10.8% 
Administrators say price tag is 'reasonable' 
ByJACK AMARO 
News Staff 
The cost ofattending Notre Dame is "more than reasonable," according to Provost Timothy O'Meara, but in light of recent federal budget cuts, Notre Dame will try to dianne! more funds into the financial aid budget. 
O'Mearasaid the price perstudent is quite a 
bit lower than most private universities, and 
room and board fees are among the lowest in 
the nation for universities on par with Notre 
Dame. 

Vice President for Business Affairs Thomas 
Mason agrees. 

"The cost ofIndiana University, for ex­ample, is higher than that ofNotre Dame," Mason said. "The difference is that the state subsidizes Indiana. As a result, the student is billed much less than here but the price per student is much higher." 
Mason said that interest from the University 
endownment helps keep tuition and other 
educational costs down. Students are billed 

44 percent ofthe actual cost ofoperating the 
University. The remaining 56 percent ofthe 
costs is made up by the endowment fund 
(four percent) and other sources (52 per­
cent). 
O'Meara plans to continue raising other 

funds to help pay University expenses. Both 
the Financial Aid office and the Admissions 

office have voiced concern about the increase 
in tuition and agreed that more money should 
be made available to Financial Aid. 

Tuitioncosts at Notre Dame are set after of­
ficers ofthe University meet and discuss their 
expenses and available funds. 

The dollar amount is set after the officials 
determine costs and subtract contributions 
from the endowment fund and other 

resources. This amount is then divided by the number ofstudents in the University. 
Mason noted that tuition is not dependent upon which department or college a student is enrolled. 
The input ofthe deans ofthe different col· leges is highly regarded on this decision since they are closer to the academic and economic priorities, O'Mearasaid. This interaction starts as early as the beginning ofthe academic year and does not end until the time when the deci­sion is made by the Board ofTrustees in May. 
Two ofthe most important criteria in this descion is consumption ofgoods and infla­tion, according to Mason. 
"Most ofour light, as one example, is produced in the plant and we have to take in consideration the demand for the electricity to see how much money we need to allocate for the buyingofcoal, gas or petroleum for the plant. 
"As you may see we have to go to the market to buy the fuel that will make the plant run. We have to take inflation in heavy con· sideration." 
This scenario applies to every financial analysis the University m t akes regarding the evaluation oftuition, room and board. 
"The room, board and laundry bill is made so the University can break even in its procurement ofservices to the student," Mason said. "The tuition is made so that the students pay for their services." 

On top of it all 

Financial Aid Directors Joe Russo (left) of Notre Dame and Judith Casey of Saint Mary·s 
Healthy budget keeps cost increases down 
By DON DE CANDIA 
News Staff 
The Saint Mary's budget is healthy and sound, according to a College administrator, and officials expect continued financial stability throughout the 1980s. 
"There is no question that we're going into a decade that will be very difficult for private higher education," said Jason Lindower, con­troller and business manager for the College. "But we feel that Saint Mary's enters the decade in better condition than many other private institutions." 
Lindower said that during the past five years the endownment and unrestricted con­tributed income have continued to increase with respect to inflation, whereas other in­stitutions have been forced to dip into.their endowments. 
This has allowed Saint Mary's to keep tui­tion and cost increases at a minimum, accord­ing to Lindower. During the period 1977-78 through 1982·83, tuition has increased at a rate ofless than one percent per year above 
the rise in the Consumer Price Index. 
"We consider the increase to be reasonable, considering the addition oftwo major build­ing projects -the Cushwa-Leighton Library and the Angela Athletic Center -and the ex· pansion offaculty in several departments." 
There is, however, a "critical need" for ad­ditional endowment and for continuing the level ofcontributed income, he said. 
As a private college receiving less than one percent ofits funds from the government, Saint Mary's carries a larger price tag than most public institutions. For the 1982-83 academic year, tuition is S4,390. Room and board ranges from S2,080 to 52,890, depend­ing upon the living arrangements. Miscel­laneous fees average roughly S 150. 
Salaries and fringe benefits ofemployees account for slightly more than fifty percent of the College's operating cost. About 10 per­cent is spent on utilities, 10 percent on food and the remaining 30 percent on costs such as building rental, books for the library, depreciation and "just about anything you can think of' right on down to office supplies, Lin­dower said. 
A "multi-step process" is involved in determining the budget for Saint Mary's. Early in the fall the administration prepares a five­year financial projection which forecasts the economy, budgets and enrollments for the College. The projection is then reviewed by the Board of Regents once in September and again before the Board meeting in the winter where salary increases are announced. 
The Board approves the final budget at a spring meeting sometime in April or May. 
One benefit of this process, according to Lindower, is that "Saint Mary's has always followed a philosophy ofgiving parents and students as much warning as possible oftui· tion increases, usually by February or March." 
Another indicator ofa college's financial condition is its enrollment. Demographic projections show a decrease in the number of college-age people actually attending in the next decade. At Saint Mary's, however, "enrollment has continued to be strong," and Lindower expects this trend to continue. 
.-----­
-~ 

r 
l ~ 
I 
Monday, November 22, 1982 -page 10 
Ctnft? 
l 

M
ixed media and a sort of primitive technique charac­terized both exhibitions which opened at Saint Mary's this past weekend. Hetsy Packard and Dolores Milmoe exhibited recent work in the Hammes and Moreau Galleries, respectively. 
Angeln Adnmson 
art review 
Betsy Packard is showing intimatt: sized constructions offound ob­jects: milk cartons, toilet paper rolls, egg cartons, bottles and styrofoam pieces, as well as an occasional bronze based on the forms ofthe found objects. I found her work to have a kind ofgrammar school art project naivete about it. Her flower and bottle shapes, inclusion offabric and her figure forms all suggest a quiet femininity. This was evident in her white plaster cast entitled "Children and Shadow," two white spoon forms casting rough white reflections. The small size of the work, less than twelve inches, en­hanced the quiet, girlchild feeling of the sculpture. 
Packard does not title many ofher works, leaving the interpretation to the viewer. This decision seems to be in keeping with what I see as an attempt to evoke rather than describe a meaning. 
Dolores Milmoe works along similar lines, though her imagery and scale are not intimate but commanding. Her media is pur­ported to be painting, but I saw quite a bit ofdrawing, collage and con­struction. Her work is charaClerized by a preponderance ofblacks and reds. In many paintings she includes gold, bits ofvelvet, sparkles, glitter, chunks of mirror and glass -items evocative of riches, as well as in­dicative ofa concern for texture. This concern for texture is reiterated in her flat works, in addi­tion to the constructions, in the "Matala" diptych. These large scale pieces includescratches ofcharcoal, shadings ofpencil and crayon, and ink washes in alligator skin dapples. 

Milmoe's work, a1> I mentioned. b commanding. Thi~ is due, in part to the use ofcolor and texture, but also because of her ima~ery. The primitive quality ofher work adds to her indications offlame forms, her sketchy altars and doors. I saw a kind ofAztec Indian ritual hinted at in many ofthe work~. especially the smaller items on the wall. One, in particular, seemed to be ofa crowd at a great altar. The altar is spurting blood. The next painting on the wall hints at tombstones on a hill. There is a frightening power in these paint­ings. 
I felt the primitive technique was more successful and meaningful in the Milmoe exhibit than in the Pack­ard, bur I found both shows vaguely disturbing on that count. For myself, though most ofart is concept, a part ofart is craft, and 1found evidence of such lacking in both exhibits. Pack­ard's sculptures look almost too much like the flowers and people I made out of the same found objects when I was in third grade. Perhaps that is her point, just as it was War­hol's point that Cambell'ssoup is art. Bur as an artist J believe some credit is to be given to craftsmen, and I could not honestly laud either of these women for technical ability. Which is not to say that I found either artist to be poor, nor do I mean that their work is bad. I only mean to raise the question: What place has craft in the world ofart? This question is especially pertinent in an academic community such as our own which charges large fees to "train" artists. What is being taught, ifnot craft? Perhaps I am way off base, and less recent work of these Washington, D.C. women was more technically based, and they have on­ly recently rejected technique in favor ofconcept. Whatever the reason for such naive style, I find it thought-provoking to view these ar­tists. And in the end, piquing thought is one ofart's purposes. 
Incidentally, if anyone is in· rerested in having their own thoughts provoked, the galleries at Saint Mary's are open from 1 to :3 
p.m. on Sundays and 9:30 am. to noon and I to :3 p.m. Monday through Friday. The exhibit will close on December 1:3. 
Unity is the essence of the Notte DQme spitit 
'"['1his past week, after agonizing 
~ over our loss to Penn State (and now Air Force), staying up all night only to bomb a history test, and feeling the first bitter chill of the up and coming winter I began tryng to figure out why I still like this place that Father Sorin stumbled upon some years ago. Am I merely masoc­histic or is there something special amidst the tests and papers (thrust upon us in a never ending flow), the 
Chris Frnser 
features 
bleak South Bend weather (more snow than any other major U.S. city last year), and the consistently lousy food (they're serving something called noodle kugel on Wednesday). 
"It's that Notre Dame spirit," a voice in the back of my head kept telling me, "that makes our school somehow special." 
"Perhaps," I would answer, "but where does it come from, how is it maintained? tell t:'e more!" Alas, the voice wouldn't spe:ify. 
Is the spirit of Rockne still hover­ing around campus injecting that famous Fightin' Irish spirit? Well maybe, but my search for the source ofNotre Dame spirit led me to a cer­tain aspect ofthis university that helps channel the loyalty and en­

thusiasm ofthe students to 
may be a mystical reservoir from which this famous spirit is drawn. 
This aspect, strange as it may sound, is the distinct unity ofour halls provided by our unique hall structure. In contrast to many schools, a student usually spends his years on campus in a single dorm. Certainly, this allows us to develop a loyalty to our hall that can be under­stood only by members ofthe Notre Dame community. Father Mark Poorman, rector of Dillon, suggests that "the autonomy ofthe halls feeds into the spirit of Notre Dame." Fr. Poorman further points out that the community ideals stressed by the University are ultimately realized within the individual halls. "It really is a faith community, more than most parishes. Students develop the strongest friendships of their lives while living in our halls." 
Indeed the community aspects of our dorms is something that cannot be overlooked by even the sharpest cynics. We eat, study, sleep, and shower together (metaphorically speaking on the last two I hope) and itis inevitable that some sort ofbond is formed among the residents ofa dorm. Being together with these same people for three or four years 
"Itreally Is a faith 

community, 
more than most parishes. Students develop the strongest friendships of their lives while living 
in our halls." 
underscores this bond and initiates an unmistakeable sense ofhall iden­tity. This hall identity, while not the ritualized brotherhood found in the 
fraternity system, is the starting point of the loyalty that breeds the familiar hall rivalries on campus. 
Only we domers can understand how the bothersome "dawgs" of Alumni can attempt to claim super­iority to the obviously unparalleled Big Red of Dillon. Even the insig­nificant residents ofthe North Quad and the so-called East Quad partake in this pastime ofdorm rivalry. Keenan/Stanford, Breen­Phillips/Farley, and Flanner/Grace are examples ofthis. Perhaps my own prejudice is showing through just a bit on this point but please don't write me any letters about it. 
Actually, while the hall rivalries do allow for some good-natured taunting and teasing and some in­tense interhall sports contests, I think their prime benefit is the sense of membership in a community that identification with a hall affords us. We are able to look at our hall as our home -not just a just a place to study and sleep, but a place to relax. and enjoy the company ofour peers. Yes, the dorms are communities. And incredibly, they are rather ran­dom in their origins. Fr. Poorman notes, "the arbitrar: nature ofthe formation (ofthe hall communities) baffles me." We !,':nter the dorms as strangers, away from home for the first time but we leave as friends who have learned to deal with messy roomates, loud music, and lines for showers. Fr. Poorman echoes Fr. Hesburgh's words, "Even without classes, students would receive an education here." 

Ifyou think that this talk ofcom­munities and loyalty is the sentimen­tal slop ofa rah-rah Notre Darner, you may not be completely wrong. But consider the true and faithful friendships you've made here. Con­sider the sense of recognition you experience when you say "hi" to a hall acquaintance you pass on the quad. Consider the feeling of solidarity you have when your hall takes on your arch-rival in football or when you consistently come to­gether for Sunday mass. Finally, con­sider the trust and dependence necessary to make the simple ex­perience ofliving together not only possible but enjoyable. I think you will discover that through it all, your hall is acommunity -one united by overlapping friendships, dorm iden­tity, common goals, common ac­tivities, and even common bathrooms. It is a unity that extends beyond mere co-existence and over­shadows the daily drudgeries oft col­lege life. It is this unity that is the essence.of..Notre Dame spirit. 
-----------------------------~----------------------------'"""" 
············································································~·· 
The Observer Features Section 
Stravinsky celebration 
D arely in the waxing days ofwin­firer are we treated to such a wide spectrum ofcolor as will be pouring out ofthe Annenberg Auditorium today and Tuesday. Igor Stravinsky was certainly one ofthe most color­ful composers ofthis century, in his music as well as in his life. Exiled from his home twice, drinking halfof a bottle ofscotch a day, swearing like a sailor, and yet still fostering a 
ffiichael F. Kelly 
music pteview 

devout faith to Russian Orthodoxy made his entire life appear to be a contradiction. This contradiction flared forth in his early musical career as Stravinsky struggled to show an internal consistency in composition while reconciling his innovations with his mentors. Moving from a base constructed by an early friendship and apprentices­
hip with Rimsky-Korsakov, Stravinsky explored the bounds of harmonic language and rhythmic development in music. His gift ex­
tended from the finest Sergey Diag­
hilev ballets to ragtime, polkas for elephants, and a wide range of liturgical music. 
For the next two days Paul johnson and Ethan Haimo ofthe Music Department will be turning national eyes to Notre Dame's 
~ere is a problem inherent in 
.1 reviewing any art event geared towards a juvenile audience -it is very difficult to get children to write cogent reviews. I was sent out yes­terday to review the Patchwork Dance Company'sDanceEventFor Children and since I am not a child, nor do I have any, nor do I know any 
Angela Adamson 
dance teview 

suitable little tykes available for editorial comment, I was reduced t to questioning the little girls (I saw very few boys in the audience) standing in the lobby during inter­mission. The overwhelming opinion was that the performance was "Good." 
As Idtlved further into the critical analysis that produced this judge­ment, I got differing ideas. One girl thought it was good because the growing music program, and will also try to turn some campus ears to the talent offered by its faculty and students. Stravinsky composed in a wide variety ofstyles appealing equally to the ultimate connisseur and to the public ear; these styles will be demonstrated and explained through a series of morning lectures and evening concerts at the Annen­berg Auditorium today and tomor­row. The colloquium will be ofa national and a local scope, and it will feature lecturers and performers of an equal variety. 
The lectures will be highly scholarly talks directed towards music students and faculty from the surrounding universities in Indiana, Illinois, Wisconsin, and Michigan. These talks will represent the forefront ofStravinsky lectures in this one-hundredth year since his birth, and the transcripts from these lectures will be published during the next year. 
Calvin Bower, the Chairman of the Music Department, slated the colloquium as a national conference directed to examine the music of "The most influential composer of the twentieth century," and to turn the attention of musical scholars to this university. Among the lecturers will be the Pulitzer Prize winning Milton Babbitt ofPrinceton and Paul Johnson of Notre Dame whose doc­toral dissertation was ·written on Stravinsky. Also on the agenda for talks are Richard Taruskin ofColom­
''Good'' 
clown on roller skates threw candy 
to the audience. Another small per­
son thought it was good because she 
knew all the people, and her jazz 
teacher was so pretty. (This girl is 
obviously a student at the 
Werbrouck Academy, the ballet 
school that boasts ofbeing the home 
ofthe Patchwork Dance Company.) 
Thus, I can safely say that, from a 
child's point ofview, the show was 
definitely "Good." 
As an adult, however, I was less 
enthusiastic. Granted, Patchwork is 
a regional nonprofessional com­
pany, one of many in the area. The 
event was geared to a child 
audience, however the technical 
problems -the sound system went 
out in the second half, the repetitive 
choreography and the poor design 
ofthe lights (main characters often 
stood in total darkness) must have 
been distracting to even the most 
enchanted child. Another disturbing 
note, for adults only:· there were vir­
tually no credits in the program, no­
thing about music composers, 
lighting designers, etc. 
bia, Claudio Spies ofPrinceton, Et­
han Haimo of Notre Dame, William 
Austin ofCornell, and joseph Straus 
ofthe Universtiy of Wisconsin­
Madison. 
The lectures will be highlighted 
by performances from the Notre 
Dame Chorale under the direction 
ofCarl Starn and the New York based 
ensemble Continuum. Both groups 
will present pieces from the many 
facets and phases ofStravinsky's life 
and will enhance the conference 
with their interpretations ofhis 
music to support and entertain the 
guest speakers and the audience. 
Continuum, under the direction of 
Cheryl Seltzer and joel Sachs, is a 
natioanally acclaimed ensemble that 
specializes in twentieth century 
music and will be presenting their 
performance ofStravinsky's works at 
8: I 5 tonight in the Annenberg Auditorium. The Chorale will per­form the following night at 5:00 presenting various pieces including selections from Stravinsky's Mass of 1948 which Stravinsky conducted before Pope Paul VI. There will be a wide range of music presented from throughout Stravinsky's life that should be equally appealing to everyone. And while we will not see Barnum and Bailey's elephants dan­cing through the Snite to Stravinsky's Circus Polka, I expect nothing less in excitement and en­tertainment from the performances tonight and tomorrow at the Stravinsky Centennial Conference. 
About the "Event" itself: Lyn 
Rejahl Pry wrote the original story 
called The Mysterious Case ofThe 
Missing Shadow. The story is about 
a little girl named Emily who loses 
her shadow because ofcarelessness. 
The Sandman comes along to help 
her find her shadow. The search 
causes her to meet up with such 
diverse characters as the Roly Polys, 
the clown on roller skates (who . threw candy), the lasso Sisters, 
characters from The Wiz, Pinocchio 
etc. Oh, yes, and the Dancing Ducks. 
Kudos must go to Amy Leather­
man, who played the part of Emily 
quite well, throughout all of these 
strange introductions. Her shadow, 
Janell Warren, was a superb dancer, 
putting most ofthe wriggling fannies 
onSolid Gold to shame. Less can be 
said about the technical attributes of 
the adults in the production, whose 
dancing was predictable at best, 
repetitive at worst. 
At any rate, I recommend the 
show for adults only ifaccompanied 
by a child, who will be able to tell 
you why it is so "Good." 

Monday, Nove:mber 22, 1982 -page 11 
The john 
~roughout the semester, I've been making suggestions on how 
.1 students can improve the social life here at the literary shrine of the Virgin Mary. This week, I've decided to go to the administration with some words ofwisdom. 
The abuse ofalcohol is a serious worry here at Notre Dame, admit the administrators. Yet, when the students cry out for more social ac­tivities, when social recreation is so desperately needed, the stu­dents receive an enlarged Senior-Alumni Club and a promise for a new Student Center. 
Totally unnecessary. 
Ed Kontady 
featutes 

What students need is a place to improve and enlarge their rela­tions with the opposite sex. A place where all inhibitions are lost, at an affordable price. 
A movie theatre? 

A movie theatre would be nice, but who talks during movies besides drunken Dillionites? It wouldn't help the average Notre Dame student to truly understand their fellow students. 
Abowling alley? 

Abowling alley would be nice for a while, but then everyone would form leagues, and lanes would be all filled up, and beer at a bowlingalley is entirely too expensive. We already had an alley here at Notre Dame below the bookstore, but it died from either lack of interest or too much interest, depending on your point-of-view. 
A pizza place? 

A pizza place is nice, but it would have to be rather large to ac­comodate enough students to make it feasible for a solution for the social problems here. 
A pub? 

This isn't Ireland, and ifyou want a pub, you can fly to the land of hairy legs and catch all the IRA bombs you want in a pub. Besides, anyone who is old enough to legally get into a pub will be down at the renovated Senior-Alumni Club. 
What students need is an operation that is small enough to be run by just a few students, that will serve all of the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community, and will not increase any problems that our lovable little bastion ofacademia already has. 
This is a question that has perplexed our administration. But thanks in part to my roommate Alex, some ofhis friends, and the little red pills I stole from the mental hospital, a solution has been found. 
A bordello. 

It could be startt:d with a minimum of investment, since there 
have to be extra beds lying around somewhere. Unfortunately the 
old Senior Bar was torn down (tell me that place didn't look like a 
whorehouse!) and the two available buildings on campus are going 
to the art department and Community Services. 
The third floor of LaFortune could be used, since, if there was a 
vote between having The Observer, The Scholastic, and The Dome, 
or having a bordello, I think the latter would win by a few votes. 
The advantages to having a bordello on campus would be fantas­tic. Notre Dame would get enormous publicity in favor ofits forward-thinking attitude. Students here would get an up-close, per­sonal view oftheir fellow students. The money spent at the bordello would be money ordinarily spent on alcohoL drugs, and outside bor­dellos, and probably raise the morals ofsome ofthe more vile stu­dents here. 
The incredible attention paid to sex by students would decrease when it becomes available for anyone six nights a week (Never on Sunday!). The stereotypical shy, sexually frustrated male and over­protective female would be shot down in flames, and would evolve into a new breed ofstereotype, the adult. 
But who would we get to work in the bordello? The current work/study program which features our impressive dining hall sys­tem would be completely revamped. Financial aid could become even more desirable. Ofcourse we would need students ofboth sexes to participate, as several women have expressed interest in the idea ofgoing to a bordello. 
But what do we call our new extra-curricular activity? 
We already have the Hesburgh Memorial library and the joyce Athletic and Convocation Center ....the FatherJohn (no pun in­tended) Van Wolvlear Brothel. Fr. "No Keg" Von Wolvlear is the director ofstudent affairs. His name truly belongs as the inspiration ofa whorehouse, since without him, Notre Dame students would not have the incentive to try to improve their lowly way oflife. 
Already though, problems creep up. What about social diseases? We could have the admissions department require Wassermen ~ests with the SAT's for incoming freshmen. Birth control? Unfortunately, the Pope has not given great ~upport for using various forms ofbirth control. But, as my high school theology teacher used to say, "ifyou don't play the game, you shouldn't make the rules." 
"TheJohn," as students would undoubtedly refer to it, could replace the library as the most popular place on campus. Ofcourse, the administration will find silly rules to help interfere with the stu­dents having fun. Smoke alarms would have to be installed in every room. And, ofcourse, you can buy male contraceptive~ only in three packs. (Once a box is opened, students will try to finish the whole thing.) 
With their own silly little rules, the administrators will get the feeling ofcontrol, students will have an opportunity to enrich their • lives (and pocketbooks) and Fr. Van Wolvlear will finally get the recognition he deserves. 
------~----~~ 

-~-----­
~~(),-tS=1J~,..~i=e~S~====~~===================M=o=nd=a=y,=N=o=ve=m=b=er=2=2=,1=9=8=2==p=ag=e=I=2
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
The SMC basketball team opened its 1982-83 
. season on a sour note Friday night by dropping a 73-66 decision to Kalamazoo Community College at the Angela Athletic Facility. Missy VanOrt led the Belles with 18 points. See tomorrow's Observer for more details. -The Observer 
Dillon Halldefeated Howard Hall, 21-0, yesterday for the interhall football championship at Notre Dame Stadium. A strong defense combined with a methodical offense spelled the difference as Big Red won its second straight title. See tomorrow's Observer for more details. -The Observer 
Brian Kiernan scored the game's only goal midway through the first halfto pace Flanr.er Hall to a l-0 victory over Dillon Hall yesterday to capture the interhall soccer championship and also to avenge a 4-0 loss earlier in the season. Nat Walsh, who doubles as the Flanner coach, recorded his seventh shutout of the season in goal. -The Obsen;er 
• • .Falcons 
continuedfrom page 16 
returned it 36 yards to the Irish 3. Two plays later, Louthan scored again on another two-yard run, and the rout was on. 
Karcher, who was starting in place of the injured Blair Kiel, was benched following the interception and after completing 2 of 4 passes for just 21 yards. Senior Jim O'Hara replaced the sophomore, and led the Irish to a Mike Johnston 38-yard field goal early in the third quarter to close them within 1 7-3. 
"I had a lot of confidence going in," said O'Hara "I thought we could do it. I just tried to go in and fire the guys up a little bit." 
The Irish did finally show some enthusiasm and, on the Falcons' next series, the defense seemingly had Air Force stopped. But on a crucial third-and-one, Louthan audibled a simple quarterback draw, and ripped through the Irish defense for a 55-yard gain to the NO 3. jody Sim­mons carried it over on the next play, untouched, and the Falcons were on their way, 24-3. 

"We let them }ump on us early," said Irish senior linebacker Mark Zavagnin. "That let them believe in themselves, and that's the Air Force trademark. No tricks, just good foot­ball." 
O'Hara finally warmed up in the fourth quarter to throw two touch­down passes, a 28-yarder to fullback LaFry Moriarty (a carbon copy ofhis TO reception against Pitt) and a 55­yard toss to joe Howard in the final minute. O'Hara actually finished with impressive stats-14-of-23 for 216 yards, and no interceptions. 
"jimmy played an excellent game once he got his feet wet," said Faust. 
"To be honest, (the two TO passes) doesn't make this feel much better," said O'Hara, a walk-on from Cypress, Calif., who earned a scholarship this season. "I was glad I got in, but I didn't do enough." 
He wasn't alone. The defeat left t!1e Irish 6-3-1 and out of the bowl picture for the second year in a row. 
Air Force, meanwhile, is 7-4 and headed for the Hall ofFame Bowl. Boy, how times have changed. 
Falcon·-win a laughing matter 
COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. -The hordes ofcadets, and the rest ofthe 46,712 here at Falcon Stadium Satur­day, yelled and cheered -and laughed -their way through Air Force's .30-17 domination ofNotre Dame. 
They laughed at their team's surprising success; they laughed at Notre Dame's ineptness; and they laughed at how darn easy it all was, considering NO's prior 11-0 rule of this rivalry. 

Meanwhile, in a corner of the press box, two Bluebonnet Bowl officials slumped helplessly in their chairs, the tears forming in their eyes as they prepared to slash their wrists. For them, gone was their superb Notre Dame-Arkansas matchup; gone were visions of a packed New Year's Eve gala at the Houston Astrodome, and the hope ofsome respectability and impressive TV ratings for their perpetually minor bowl. 
One is inclined to say that Air Force and Notre Dame are two t-eams heading in opposite directions. Af­ter all, the Falcons arc now 7-4, making waves with their wishbone offense, and actually are placing high in NCAA statistics for the first time in ages . 
On the other hand, the Irish are once again forced to reminisce ofpast glory, as they've now been shut out of bowl games three times in the last four years, and have won just 27 of 44 games in that span. 
Someday, Notre Dame will be back. It may be next year, the year after, or five years from now. It might not be the same players, or the same coaches, that do it. But there's no need to go into that now. 
It's best to do as a gambler does: don't sit and count past losses; look ahead at the future. 
While Notre Dame's future is highly uncertain, Air Force can be nothing but optimistic about the years ahead. And if you're a betting man, the Falcons may just be your darkhorse team next season. 
It has taken Coach Ken Hatfield four seasons to make Air Force a real force in college football. A win next week at Hawaii would give the Falcons, at 8-4, their best season in 12 years. And he's done it the old-fashioned way -using discipline to get the most out of average players. 
Keep in mind that Air Force, like the other service academies, isn't able to wqo the blue-chip recruits be­cause of the omnipresent five-year post-graduate com­mittment that every cadet must honor. That makes Hatfield's accomplishments even more remarkable. 
You may remember Hatfield from the NO-USAF game two years ago, when he almost attacked Dan Devine after the latter had called three passing plays in the closing stages of a sewn-up 24-10 Irish victory. Lord knows, he wasn't the first one to want to kill Devine in those days. 
But Hatfield earned a lot of respect that day, and he has since instilled that fighting attitude in his players. Week after week, his squad is constantly undersized and 
overmatched, but somehow they do the job. For ex­
ample, NO's offensive line was pretty much neutralized 
by Air Force's defensive line Saturday, although the Fal­
cons gave away 50 poundsper man. 
It is Hatfield's wishbone offense, however, that may propel Air Force into the wild, blue yonder next season. Junior quarterback Marty Louthan runs the show, and now seems to have the offense down to a science. He ran for 115 yards Saturday, including a back-breaking 55-yard quarterback sneak in the third quarter that led to the.Falcons' third and deciding touchdown. 
His fullback, John Kershner, added 89 yards rushing, boosting his season total just short of the I ,000-yard mark -a remarkable total for a fullback. The reason Hatfield is licking his chops these days is because Lout­han, Kershner and their companions,JodySimmons (63 yards) and Derek Foster, will all return next season. That means Air Force's running attack, already ranked third in the nation, will be even better. 
All of this is meant to pacify those Irish fans who feel that a loss to Air Force is a good reason to take a leap off th_s 14th floor ofthe library. True, it has been 19 years since Notre Dame lost to a service academy, after .38 wins in a row. And, true, it is the first time ever the Irish have lost to the Air Force in 12 meetings. 
But Air Force is no longer a slouch, and Ken Hatfield won over more than a few followers here Saturday. 
He did so by proving that it's not important how muchParade All-America talent you have; it's what you get out ofthat talent that's important. 
This weekend, the NO men's a.u1 women's bas­ketball teams will open their 1982-83 seasons. And, of course, the football team plays at USC. 
My advice is to look ahead to the future -don't even bother watching the USC game, especially if you're in the South Bend/Chicago area for break. 
The women's basketball team plays at the Rosemont Horizon Friday and Saturday in the Orange Crush Tournament against three of the nation's top teams. Meanwhile, Digger's boys usher in a new era with Stonehill and St. Francis at the ACC this weekend. 
Both these teams have the talent, the enthusiasm and the fine coaching to go a long way this year. All they need is your support. 
The football team, on the other hand, needs a lot more than that. 
The Observer will accept classjfieds Mon­day through Fnday, 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m~ However, classifieds to appear in the next issue must be rece1ved by 3 p.m. the business day pnor to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
e1ther 1n person or through the mail. 
Classifieds 
two need nde to ST. LOU or PURDUE, I have ONE U.S.C. ticket for sale. Do N.D. campus wide NECROPHIUA DAY:LOST -NY. ISLANDERS jacket at Any N.D. or SMC g~tls g01ng to lhe spa. I leav~ngtue. night or wed. call JeH at 6726 you need it? Are you t~red of digging around for a date? 
Corby s several weeks ago. Call 7781 . need a nde -please. Call Ton1 SMC 
Call John at 8638 Long Island pilgrim needs a ride home for Thanksgiving and the Mayflower Is To my favonte (albert much-maligned and 
NOTICES 

reward. 5527. 
NEED RIDE TO MINEAPOLIS FOR too expenalvel I can leave Tuesday, NEED 2 STUDENT OR GA TIX FOR · much abused QB): Nolo contendre-you
LOST: 1980 Bengal Bouts Jacket Last 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287 ·4082 BREAK CAN LEAVE MON. AFTER­and will share the usual. If you can help KENTUCKY GAME ASK FOR JOHN, may have pulled off your miracufous Ha1l
seen in Lyons parking lot Name in Inside 
NOON, CALL JOE at 1534. TYPING, PAPERS, ETC~. CALL 232-me out, I'd be thankful! Call Steve at 1768. Mary f~n1sh, but tomorrow IS another day, 7746,4-9 p.m. M-S. 8626. and next week a d1fferent ballgame!!! 
leH pocket Need nde to Wash1ngton,D C. area lor TICKETS AVAILABLE SOON FOR THE W.R.C C. P5~ lets plan our strategy-aHerThanksgiving break Will share usual Call 

Expenenced typ1st w1ll do typ1ng CAMPUS WIDE FUN WITH YOUR all, th1s won·t be just another auld lange
3656

FOR RENT
Reasonable rates. Call287·5162. FAVORITE FETISH DANCE AND EX· syne, ~ause "'everythmg s better w1th
RIDERS NEEDED to Moline Illinois area HIBITION COMING SOON .. ~ BLUUEBONNET on 1t!!!' pps You were
along 1-80. Call Karen 6905. MINNESOTANS Daddy wants his car Student Hous1ng -Clean Safe. 
WASHINGTON,D.C. Need nde -will right I was there It was a blast share usual Bnan 1139 
back so I need a nde back to ND the Sun­$100/mo. 291-1405 
MILWAUKEE! Bus seats st1ll available day aHer Thanksgiving. (actually 2 ndes) Call John 6775 G1rls beware! Crow is loose an Keenan w/
DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO Sl 
Call Carol at 7730 SPACIOUS ONE BEDROOM UNFUR· 
LOUIS TO SPEND THANK W/ LONELY Cathps NISHED APT GARAGE BSMT R1ders needed to Rhode Island. Leaving
GRANDMOTHER CALL JOHN 8621 
PERSONALS

IWANNAGOTO JOISEY Desperately UTILITIES INC EXCEPT ELEC. LW W Tuesday at noon. Call Kathy 284-5322. To one of the best professors on need nde to anywhere 1n the Garden S BEND 240.00 A MONTH PLUS 
campus. Have a Happy Birthday Dr B
Need nder to CLEVE area for T-guv1ng.
State Call Laune at 7730. DEPOSIT 287·5535 Love,
Call Kathy 1279. NO. VA /WASH D.C IS where I need a MENS CAUCUS meeting on Monday at Juanrta THE WHO AT STEPAN CENTER THE 2-BED 
NEED RIDE ALONG 1-80 TO IOWA (DES nde to for Tnksgvng Brk. Will share usual. 6:30 2nd floor Lafortune!!! WHO THE WHO DECEMBER 17 1982 Apt heat alf 
MOINES) FOR THANKSGIVING. CALL John1817 Have aHappy .8-Day, Dr B THE WHO THE WHO DONT MISS THE payed,appllances,hardwood MARK 288-4242 
Loogootee! What Ia a Loogootee? If The EveReady Die-Hards WHO THE WHO floors,$250 mo.123 s. Eddy 233-6441 you'd like a ride there for break I'm Need 1 or 2 ndes to LI/NYC area Can leaving Wed. Call Marilyn 12691111 Karla-
leave Mont Call5443 (SMC) HI! How are you? I am hne fm st1ll
FOR SALE 

Is there anybody out there? wondenng what all those leather straps I NEED A RIDE TO ST LOUIS Will be and Cnsco was do1ng in your closet able to leave anytime Wednesday. Will Couches, $30 & up; Cha~ts, $15 & up. Call She1la GO NAKED. GO NORTH! TO Remember. my room1es are g01ng to be pay usual. Please call Maureen at x1 ~72. Mrs Cooper at 272-3004 after 12 DINE AND NOT TO CHOW. CHARLES absent tuesday n1te so we can talk 
noon.Free delivery to dorm. philosophy (ho ho ho) new.lf taken or found, please return to 243 NEW YORK (ALBANY. UTICA, DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE TO ROC­HELP! -Hopelessly melting 1n the arms D1d you ever thmk of eggs as hqu1d Stanford (8670) and no questions will be SYRACUSE FOR XMAS BREAK-WILL HESTER OR BUFFALO FORT-GIVING ONYX CHESS SETS IMPORTED FROM of a M1lwaukee1te Fnend of Knute ch1ck~ns? I thought not SHARE USUAL-CALL CHRIS AT 8573 well, see you later 
asked. WILL SHARE USUAL. PLEASE CALL MEXICO HAND CARVED ONYX OR 3510 ANYTIME TERRY at 8774. THANK YOU CHESS SETS, CALL 683-9754 3-4 PM ST EDS 4TH FLOOR CAN ALWAYS 
LOST: ONE GOLD MEN'S CHAIN 

ONLY $32 50 BY ORDER ONLY MAKE ROOM FOR ONE MORE IN M1ght have been lost in the ACC on Mon­Need R1de to Minneapolis for Thanksg1v-LOBO S CASE, WE HAD TO MAKE
RIDE NEEDED TO NYC FOR XMAS Margaret-day 11/15 Please call Dav1d at x6931 BREAK-WILL SHARE USUAL-CALL 1ng Will Share Usual Call Kev1n 1629 Two F~tst Class Round Tnp A~thne Tickets ROOM FOR TWO Let's get unprofessiOnal together CHRIS AT 8573 OR 3510 ANYTIME from South Bend to any place United Illes Tom lnsh Tweed Cap-Gray Lost 1 t-10-82, Need a nde to anywhere m West. PA for -Call232-6193 HEY LOBO. IS 401 A TRIPLE OR A poss•bly 1n the library. Call8350-ask for Thanks call Stan 8317 
Help! Need lift from Mpls for TG break$$ QUAD??? Q: What IS a SICk wagon 1n Indiana? 
Dave 3039 A An Ill Cart 11pm CANT QUIT SMOKING? Then GIVE IN Mike. Thanks 
Need nde to DETROIT For Thanksg1v1,;9 and 101n the SMC Smokers Club. First or· Deanna s Dad Is A P1lotREWARD!!! Lost at Penn State Pep rally, 
Need nde to M1nneapohs for Thanksgiv­Share usual. 6849. gamzat1onal meeting Sunday Nov 21, at GLOVES If found, call8125. Ing. Can leave 11123. please call Paul TICKETS 
7:00pm, 47 Holy Cross SMC For further come mto the bedroom, 8775 need nde to dc/n.va for thanksgiving. Info call Jean, Rose. or Colleen at 4455 in the suitcase on the left you'll lind OI~E TIRE JACK WITH THE NAME MAR­
one palf o1 GORILLA COSTUME 

Dave 1003 P.S. If you cant beat-em, jo1n us! my favorite axe . 
GARET ON IT. CALL 2()8-0725 G01ng to or thru EAU CLAIRE, WISC, lor 4 UCLA and 2 IU t1ckets for one in need! Thanx break? Need nde. wills t hare usual NEED RIDE TO NYC OR LONG ISLAND For top$$ call Fifi at 1250 I got Cat class and I got Cat style Doni us, Brent8593 CAN LEAVE ANYTIME AFTER TUES We went tankardang!!! Where were you, 
Lost: A Bulova, Gold rimmed Watch It WILL SHARE THE USUAL ROB 3248 I need your Kentucky G A s. Will pay b1g N.D campus w1de ZOOPHILISM DAY paper on Tuesday??? NO MORE has a scratch mark on the face plate next AIDE NEEOE T D FOR 2 TO CLEVELAND bucks! Please call Ted x1673 Pet your tavonte squirrel today! DOUGHNUTS!!! Be mere on 12/2 or to the-numeral mne~ Lost on Stepan F1eld AREA (EXITS 9 OR 10 OF 1-80) ON 11/24 Need nde to and/or from MINNEAPOLIS else on 11/17/82 aHernoon. If found please WILL SHARE USUAL CALL BOB OR W1lhng to share dnv1ng & expens....ll Need 2 GAs for KY BB garne, Call J1m IN D. campus w1de SMEGMA DAY: Are Love. call George at 1418 DAN AT3340 8813. In M1nn call722-7365 1498 you s1ck of Mozzarella? You know who from 416 

The Observer Monday, November 22, 1982-page"13 
Huskies swreep Irish; icers 0-5 at home 
By STEVEN LABATE 
Sports writer 
The Huskies of Michigan Tech took a pair ofgames from the Notre Dame hockey team this past weekend, winning games by the scores of 5-4 and 6-4. The losses gave the Irish a CCHA and overall record of 3-7 this season, with first place Bowling G t reen scheduled next. 
The Irish played perhaps their best period of the season when they outhit, outskated and outscored Tech in the first period Friday night. The fans were still getting settled in­to their seats when senior Kirt Bjork tipped in an Adam Parsons shot just 31 seconds into the game. 
Midway through the period, it was Bjork again who provided the of­fense. While the Irish were shor­thanded, he stripped a Tech defenseman of the puck, skated in and beat goalie Tom Allen with a wrist shot. The Irish went up 3-0 when Bjork completed the natural hat trick with two and a half minutes left in the period 
After the first intermission, Notre Dame resembled the team that had gotten drubbed 11-2 a week earlier against lllinois-Chicago. Tech put the puck behind goalie Bob McNamara four times in the second period, and it was Tech's second score on a rare penalty shot that swung the momentum over t 1 o the Huskies. 
The penalty shot was awarded on a bizarre play that started when McNamara got trapped behind his own net. As both sides scrambled for the loose puck at the right faceoff circle, Tech's Steve Murphy got a shot off As Murphy did so, McNamara was out of position and knocked the goal cage over. 
With the ACC crowd on its feet, Murphy skated in on the Irish goalie and flipped a wrist shot into the up­per right hand corner ofrhe cage. 
From that moment on, the game belonged to Tech. Their fourth score came with just 33 seconds left in the second session. Halfway through the third period, MTU's Mike Nepi connected, and it looked like the Irish were through for the evening. 
A minute later. it looked as if the Irish could be through for the season as their team leader, Kirt Bjork, lay motionless on the ice. ND's leading scorer ~.-uffered a severe contusion in the stomach area when he jabbed himself with his stick along the boards in the Tech zone. 
Seemingly inspired by Bjork's ab­sence, the Irish rallied. Rrent Chap­man closed the margin to one with a goal at 17:36. But Tech thwarted the Irish from there on, and game one belonged to the Huskies, 5-4. 
On Saturday evening, the Irish played credibly despite injuries that kept Bjork, john Higgins, Paul Salem and Sean Regan out ofaction. Notre Dame never led, but when Adam Parsons took a pass from Rex Bel­lomy and stuffed the puck between the pads of goalie Tom Allen, the Irish were tied 3-3 at l : l 0 of the second period. 
But as was the case all weekend, when the Irish needed a goal most, it was Tech who lit the lamp. Two Todd Scott goals before the end of the second period gave the Huskies 

I1ClJ>J>~ 1311tllclel., lelll~t gee ya OIJe/l b~tea~l ~t'Xie. 
__MoQQy (llld nQQ t[,r, '1Vmnen nt £,.9.Q1 

a two-goal cushion heading into the final 20 minutes. 
Mike Metzler made it 5-4 early in the third stanza, but the Irish could not mount any type of offense after that. When Tech scored an empty net goal, game two of the series was theirs, 6-4. 
In assessing the weekend perfor­mances, Notre Dame's play was for the most part sloppy. Their passes weren't crisp, and they were consis­tently slow getting to loose pucks. 
And with Bowling Green and Michigan State on the horizon the next two weeks, the Irish must work on the basics if they expect to win any of the four games ahead. 
IRISH ITEMS: The two losses this 
weekend give the Irish an 0-5 record at home this season. Up until now, Notre Dame's Mark Doman ( IB) and Bob the Notre Dame hockey team had Thebeau ( 11) converge on Michigan Tech's Scott never lost five games in a row at Compton in weekend action at the ACC. ND's ef­
home .. .
,...............................,
: AFighting Irish Towel : 
: Hey Bowl-Bound Notre Dame Fans!!! : + Support your team in the Stadium and on +•+ National T.V. by waving your own fan towel. +• 
•. Only \Brinj.'B"c.k -the. E.d')o~; .••• . j • _ ~--. . lhavoli'olreDamollue :· 
~ with white lettering. Actual size 11" x 18"
•54 95 
: ·Go Iris~ _·__j : + WHAT A GR.IAT CHBI TMAS PRESENT! + 
f •ever sold before. tt Only available by sendinC check or money order to: + 
+ Broderick Enterprises •• 
P.O. Box 130+ Port Ronmouth, Jf.J. 07758 ++ Add $1.50 for posh&e and handline + 
• 

• Allow 4 weeks for delivery. t
................................. 


< 
Fast ... Free r---------------,I
Delivery Only I I 
I

$6.99 I 
Good Mondays Only ... Only $6.99 for a 16" 1-item 277·2151 pizza plus 4 Colas (a $2.19 I 
Call us. I I 
I

1835 South Bend Ave. value). Tax not included. 
I
One coupon per pizza. 
I

Free 30 minute pizza Expires: 12/31/82 
I

delivery and 10 minute 
I

pick-up service. Fast, Free Delivery 
I
1835 South Bend Ave. 
I

Hours: Phone: 277-2151 
I

11 :00 · 1 :00 Sun.· Thurs. 
I

11 :00-2:00 Fri. &Sat. 
I I

Our drivers carry less 
I

than $10.00. 
I

Limited delivery area 
• ® 26213/26so . I 
~---------------~ 
• 

forts were to no avail, however, as the Irish dropped both games ofthe series by scores of5-4 and 6-4. (Photo by Ed Can-ol/) 
·······························································-··~ 
DISCOUNT SAVINGS 
CONTACT LENSES 
Replacements Or Spare Eye Contact's low annual membershtp fee of $12.50 entitles you to obtatn replacement or additional NAME BRAND soft. hard. or spectalty lenses and accessory care products 
at a substantial saW'lgS soft lenses (regular) $24.95 each hard lenses (regular) $14.95each accordtng lo your doctors prescnpllon. 1n seated contamers w1th prom pi serv1ce and a money-back guarantee 
Jom now and rece1ve an eye care giltpack and our accessory pnce l1st 
DON'T WAIT, CALL TODAY FOR IMMEDIATE SERVICE 1 800 255-2020 (Toll Free) VISA. MASTERCARD or COD orders accepted 
Fam1ly membership fee dis~ount available Everyth•ng you II need 1n replacement contact lenses --Except the h1gh cost -­
EYE CONTACT 
P.O. Box 7770 Shawnee Mission, KS 66207 
'..................................................................: 

Throbbing head? Quaking body? Has Monday dealt another crushing blow? Revive yourself with a well­rounded meal from Dominds Pizza We'll help smooth the wrinkles out of your day. 
~1982 Domino's Pizza. Inc. 
'Crush' preview 

Irish battle Bruins, 'Da-wgs 
By MIKE RICCARDI 
Sports Writer 
Mary DiStanislao, Notre Dame's women's basketball coach, kicked back and said, "If we can split in Chicago, we should be in the Top 20." 
The Irish women face an impor­tant step in their climb to national prominence this weekend at the Orange Crush Tournament at the Rosemont Horizon in suburban ChicaJ,o. On Friday afternoon, Notre Dame plays UCLA in the tourney's opener, while in the tournament's opposite bracket, No. 7 Georgia takes on No. I4 Rutgers. 
It's an important test for all four teams, and Notre Dame could find out very early how far it can be ex­pected to rise this season. The Irish are coming off a scrimmage at Purdue in which ND "won" five of six quarters. 
"Shari ( Matvey ), Mary Beth (Scheuth) and Lynn (Ebben) put in especially good performances," said DiStanislao. "Everyone was OK We're finally showing some consis­tency. We're not as smart (as we should be) picking up on offenses and defending them, but we took ad­vantage when we needed to." 
The UCLA game, set for I p.m. Friday, is a rugged opener for a green Notre Dame side. The Bruins, who came into the ACC last December ranked eighth in the nation and won by only five points, will test the Irish with a pressing defense and a run­ning offense. 
"We have to beat 'em (at the run­ning game)," says DiStanislao. "They're a very fast club, and we know they'll try to run and press, even though they didn't show it last week in their exhibition game. They run a simple offense, but they ex­ecute it very well." 
Speed may be the essence of the UCLA matchup. The Bruins' transi­tion game is very strong, and is keyed by 6-1 junior center Necie Thompson. "She's one of the most underrated players in the country because of her size," says UCLA coach Billie Moore. "But there is no more effective center anywhere ....she can carry the brunt of both our offense and defense." 
The honorable mention All­
American centers a front line which 
returns intact from last year's team. 
Junior small forwardJackieJoyner 
and 6-1 sophomore Char Jones also 
come back for the Bruins, who open 
their season at Brigham Young Wed­
nesday night. 
Freshman point guard Michelle 
McCoy is a major addition to the 
UCLA backcourt. "There's no ques­tion that she'll be one of the best guards in the country as a freshman," says Moore. "She brings an added dimension to the team. 

"(McCoy) plays a great, open­floor transition game. Also, she dis­plays great leadership quality despite her inexperience." 
Mary Hegarty and Angel Hardy, both transplanted point guards, will split time at the off-guard slot, giving Moore speed to burn in the back-court. 
"Speed is a state of mind," says DiStanislao. "No matter how fast you can run, you can throw a ball faster. 
So we can neutralize whatever ad­
vantage speed is." 
UCLA, which finished 16-I4 for a fourth-place finish in the tough Wes­tern Collegiate Athletic Association, is anxious to kick off its new season. And, according to Moore, "the rivalry with Notre Dame is some­thing we like to have and keep going." 
The Notre Dame-UCLA victor will face the winner of the game be­tween Georgia and Rutgers for the title Saturday at 3:15 p.m. The losers will square off in the consolation game at 7 p.m. 
Georgia returns all five starters from last year's 21-9 NCAA Tourna­ment entry, and adds two Parade All-America recruits. Janet Harris, a 6-2 sophomore, last year became on­ly the third freshman to be accorded college All-America honors. 
Harris is the Herschel Walker of the Lady Bulldogs, but Coach Andy Landers demurrs, saying, "We have 
an 'equal-opportunity' offense. Janet doesn't have to carry the team." 
·Hartis, from Chicago's Marshall High, averaged over 22 points per game and swept over I2 boards a game. Wanda Holloway and Cynthia Collins will also start in Landers' three-forward offense. 
Rhonda Malone, a 5-l0 junior off­guard, and Amanda Abrams, a 5-6 sophomore point player, will oc­cupy the backcourt for the seventh­rated 'Dawgs. 
Two fresh additions paint Georgia as a darkhorse contender for the na­tional title. First-team Parade All­America guard Theresa Edwards and Parade third-teamer Lisa O'Connor, who was recruited by Notre Dame, will be eased into the lineup much like the Irish frosh. 
"The keys are the two freshman," 

confirms Landers. "They have to 
come in and contribute if we are to 
improve." 
While Georgia is a powerful of­

fensive machine, their defense may 
be their Achilles heel. "We have a 
long way to go (on defense); our 
players have more offensive talent," 
says Landers. 
Georgia's first-round opponent 

The Schedule 
Nov. 26-27(Fri.-Sat.) Dec. 2 ( Thur.) Dec. 4 (Sat.) Dec. 8 (Wed.) Dec. 10 (Fri.) Dec. 12 (Sun.) Dec. 15 (Wed.) Dec. 30 (Thur.) Jan. 3 (Mon.) Jan. 6 (Thur.) Jan. 8 (Sat.) Jan. 13 (Thur.) Jan. 16 (Sun.) Jan. 21 (Fri.) Jan. 23 (Sun.) Jan. 27 (Thur.) Jan. 30 (Sun.) Feb. 4 (Fri.) Feb. 6 (Sun.) 

.. 
Feb. 11 (Fri.) Feb. I8 (Fri. ) Feb. 19 (Sat.) Feb. 25 (Fri.) Feb. 27(Sun.) Mar. 6 (Sun.) 
Mar. 9 (Wed.) 

Orange Crush Tournament (Rosemont, Ill.) BUTIER 7:30p.m. ST. FRANCIS (Ill.) II a.m. at Western Michigan 7:30p.m. MIAMI (Ohio) 7:30p.m. at Michigan 2 p.m. EASTERN MICHIGAN 7:30p.m. EAST CAROLINA 4 p.m. at Villanova 7:30p.m. at Georgetown 8 p.m. at Maryland 6:30p.m. AUGUST ANA 7:30p.m. ALABAMA 2 p.m. DETROIT "':30 p.m. ILLINOIS-CHICAGO 2 p.m. at Arizona State 2 r m. at UCLA 4:30p.m. LOYOLA 7:30p.m. IOWA STATE 4 p.m. LOUISIANA TECH 7:30p.m. at Bradley 8:30p.m. 
at Illinois State 8:30 p.m. at Marquette 8 p.m. at DePaul 4 p.m. DAYTON 2 p.m. INDIANA 7:30p.m. 
will be the last AlAW national cham­pion, Rutgers. Mary D.'s alma mater is coached by Theresa Shenk Grentz, whom Mary D. coached as an Im­maculata College assistant under Cathy Rush. 1 
Only one starter returns from the AlAW championship team (senior swing player Jeanne Hall). Grentz has rebuilt her team in a hurry, bringing in six blue chip freshmen. Three who should contribute early are forward Kelly Watts, center Ronnie Smythe and Karen Schwartz. 
While the talented triumvirate played together on the East squad in this summer's National Sports Fes­tival, the No. I4 Scarlet Knights remain hard to figure. 
On paper, Georgia is the favorite 
in the tournamnent, with UCLA a 
darkhorse. Notre Dame's goal is to 
gain a split, and that won't be easy. 
Beating UCLA, for DiStanislao, is a 
matter ofcutting down on mistakes. 
"We've bec:n executing well of­
fensively," she says, "but we've got 
to cherish the basketball more. 
"We gave up 22 turnovers a game 
last year; even if they capitalize on 
half of those, that's more than 20 
points. We lost a lot of games last 
year by Jess than 10." 
Including last year's UCLA game. 
.··'* 

·.~·~=·)~·....... ---..:<!:#.·"·'· 

-~::;. 

Trena Keys, last year's "Miss Basketball" in Indiana, gets a breakaway chance in last week's tntrasquad game. The 6-1 fresh­manfrom Marion was one ojtbegame's high scorers, with 11, bad three steals andjour rebounds. Keys is one ofthree freshmen who are exxpected to contribut t e right away to the success ofthe Irish wqmen. (Photo by Rachel Blount) 
Future stars 
Frosh class Mary D.'s best ever 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
Digger Phelps may have an excel­lent crop of freshmen, but he is not the only Notre Dame basketball coach to have had good recruiting luck this year. The women's basket­ball coach, Mary DiStanislao, also signed a talented group offreshmen, and she is counting on them to help her team through its difficult schedule. 
"The freshmen add more than one dimension to our team," says DiS­tanislao, "they make us a very ver­satile team." 
The freshmen that DiStanislao is referring to are Trena Keys (Marion,lnd.), a 6-I forward, Lynn Ebben (Bellevue, Wash.), a 5-11 swing player, and Denise Basford (Farmington, Mich.), a 5-9 guard. Another blue-chip recruit, Cathy O'Brien (San Marcos, Calif.), injured her ankle in practice and has had to undergo surgery. 
Each came to Notre Dame with impressive credentials and is ex­pected to fit in well with the young, talented players that are returning from last year's 16-9 squad. 
"We recruited for depth," ex­plains DiStanislao, "but when they are on the floor they make us a dif­ferent team. Denise is a tall guard and Lynn can play guard or forward, so we can throw up a big zone. They are all big and quick so we can also play an aggressive man-to-man.'' 
judging from their backgrounds, the three also should help the of­fense a great deal. 
Keys was a first-team Parade All­American as she averaged 21.5 points and 9 rebounds a game for Marion High. She was named In­diana's "Miss Basketball," which sig­nifies the best female basketball player in the state. 
Ebben, whose father was a col­legiate basketball star, was named to the Converse All-America squad. She was the leading scorer and Most Valuable Player in her league as she averaged 22 points and pulled down I3 rebounds a game. 
Basford led her team in scoring, rebounds, steals, and assists during her senior season. Her performance earned her an honorable mention on the Converse and Street and Smith's All-America teams. 
When she returns to action 
(probably ...,early next semester), 
Their coach is confident that the
O'Brien should also help the offense. 
She tossed in more than 22 points and grabbed more than 16 rebounds a game. 
Nevertheless, they still need some time to adjust to the college game before they can be expected to reach their potentials. 
"You have to keep in the back of your mind that things take time," DiStanislao says. "The little light that tells when you're ready appears above each player's head at a dif­ferent time. You just have to take one day at a time. Emotionally, it takes time to grow into the game.'' 
"We've adjusted pretty well," says Keys, "but it's a big step.'' 
continuedfrom page 16 
ing the game-winning bucket, in last 
week's intrasquad scrimmage. 
However, f>iStanislao seems intent 
on starting the se t ason with veterans 
and working the frosh into the 
scheme gradually. 
Another freshman, Lynn Ebben, at 
5-1I is listed as a big guard but had a 
good intrasquad game at forWard. It 
is still unclear what spot Ebben, as 
well as injured 6-0 frosh Cathy 
O'Brien, will see most action at. 
"With the freshmen, I feel com­
fortable going all the way down our 
bench," says DiStanislao. "We now 
have the depth to compete (with the 
major powers)." 
The most heralded of DiStanis­
-lao's freshmen is most definitely a 
forward. Last year's "Miss Basket-

adjustment period will not be long. 
"They're all smart players," ex­plains DiStanislao. "Denise is so open to everything and picks things up well. Lynn is real smart and picks up what she's taught. She also came with a pretty sound background. 
"Trena will be quite an addition off the bench. She's very talented. But as good a basketball player as she is, and as heralded as she is, she is still a freshman. 
Nobody, including DiStanislao, is certain how long it will take for the freshmen to make their mark, but, when they do, Notre Dame is going to be hard to beat. 
• • • Outlook 
year in scoring, rebounds, blocked shots and minutes played. Scheuth will be counted on to provide Notre Dame's power on the boards. She will also be depended on to go against opposing teams' big players. 
Backing up Scheuth will be 5-10 junior Jenny Klauke, who seeks to return to the form of her freshman year after an injury-plagued sopho­more season. Carrie Bates, a 6-I sophomore, will also see action on the front line. 
The goal tor Mary D.'s Irish is no­thing less than a berth in the 32-team NCAA tournament next March. If they make it, and if they win their first game. they'll come home, as this year's Mideast Regional will be at the ACC. 
"If Notre Dame can win just a couple of their big games," says Mel 
ball" in Indiana, 6-I Trena Keys, Greenberg of the Philadelphia In­should waste little time gaining a quirer, the country's foremost starting spot on the front line. Keys' women's basketball expert, "and excellent performance in the Blue-avoid losing to the lesser lights on Gold scrimmage (she scored a the schedule, there might not be game-high 11 points, with a pair of that much keepng them out of the key breakaway buckets down the tournament." 
stretch) seems to portend a great The Irish have a legitimate chance 
future for her. to knock off three of the Midwest's 
At the season's outset, though, lqding teams in Detroit. lllinois DiStanislao will probably go with 6-State and DePaul. How they do in 1 senior Shari Matvey, the school's these games will decide their post­first female I ,000-point scorer, and season course. 5-10 sophomore Ruth Kaiser at the Last season. the Irish travelled to forward spots. The team leader in South Carolina and lost, 76-54. steals with 61 last year, Kaiser is the That's only a 22-point differential. Irish defensive leader. This year, Notre Dame attempts to 
At center will be 6-0 Mary Beth close the final gap between 
Scheuth, a sophomore from In-moderate success and national 
dianapolis who led Notre Dame last prominence. 
Ihe~oer======================================== 
Monday, November 22, 1982-page 15
Todax 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 
Campus ­

JfCT HtGOTTJE /J6ENCY70 GlvrJ ~AN CFRC£. TJEY~ 
CV9I AWAN:II¥i fr'.C PR&­PflCW::TfON nJNet! 
"\ 

Simon 
Fate 

r=====------------: 
YOLL Two Ml GHT AS W'f.LL HAvt LfF (
IWO SfUDtNTS! 

I 
Fo~ fAZf A K E t\RL'/ UK!:: f'/ER.'foN£: EL~f. · 



)eb Cashin 
Photius 

~ HADTO STICK 
I  AROUND, Vvf'R( IHt  
:  S1AK_S  OF  TH 1S Cet1iC  
.Srt\!P 


ACROSS 
1 Der­
(Adenauer) 
5 Formerly, 
once 
9 Slumber 
14 Place 

The Daily Crossword 

SO Obliquely DOWN 42 Gaiter 52 Sculpture 1 Oh, woe! 43 Ruhr city piece 2 Roman 48 Fired historian 49 White House Friday's Solution 3 Number power follower 51 Boss

4 Princess 52 Rawboned carried off animal by Zeus 53 Dull color 
5 Letter 54 One year's 6 Shake awake history 7 Camel 56 Cookie 8 Large purse baker 9 Summer shoe 59 Charles' 
10 Relative dog 
of co. 61 Quote 11 Corroded 62 Horse 12 T.S. -63 A Gardner 13 Hammer 65 -·fl 
heads 66 OttomanAll Rights Reserved 19 Hostile one official 28 Leavenworth 
resident 31 Falls short 33 Recent: 
pref. 34 Choppers 36 Congress' 
business 
40 William Gibson comedy 
44 Bismarck 
45 Hotness degrees: abbr. 
46 Pension plan let· ters 
47 Wandered 55 Lauderof 
cosmetics 57 Fire 58 Hideaway 60 Abalone 
shell liner 64 Becomes shabby 67 Nameln 
fashion 68 Quickly 69 Comer 70 Cousin 
of etc. 71 Icy 72 Lawyer: 
abbr. 73 Descartes· 21 Thesame 25 -·do-well 27 Capri or 
Man 28 Division 
word 29 Salamander 30 Debatable 32 Attention· 
getter 
35 Cigaror kitchen follower 
37 Part of 
the world 38 Admonish 39 Hit 41 Knox or 
Worth 

•12 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Legacy ofthe Supreme Court Abortion Ruling," Prof. Charles Rice, 101 Law School 

•12:15 
p.m.-Workshop, "Domestic U.S. Policy and International Food Problem," Martin McLaughlin, Library Lounge 

•1 
:30 p.m. -Journalism Conference, "Journalists: The New Target&, The New Diplomats The New Intermediary People," Georgie Anne Geyer, "The Executive Branch and the Fourth Branch," Robert). McCloskey, CCE 

•2:30 
p.m. -Paper Session, "Stravinsky's Verti­cals and (Schoenberg's) Diagonals: A Twist of Fate," Milton Babbitt, "Stravinsky's Rejoicing Dis­covery and What It Meant," Richard Taruskin, An­nenberg Auditorium 

•3:30 
p.m. -Journalism Conference, "The Ethics and Economics ofJournalism," Leonard Silk, "Responsibility in Journalism: A Business Perspective,"John E. Swearingen, CCE 

•4:20 
p.m. -Physics Colloquium, "'Nuclear Shapes at High Spin," Dr. T. L Khoo, 118 Nieuwland Science 

•8 
p.m. -Journalism Conference, "A Jour­nalist's Responsibility," Edwin Newman, CCE 

•8 
p.m. -New York Philharmonic, WSND-FM 88.9 

•8:15 
p.m. -Stravinsky Centennial Concert, Annenberg Auditorium 


T.V. Tonight 
6:30p.m. 
7p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10p.m. llp.m. 
11:30p.m. 

16 NBC Nightly News 22 CBS News 28 ABC's World News Tonight 34 Over Easy 16 MASH 22 Laverne and Shirley 28 joker's Wild 34 The MacNeiVLehrer Report 16 All in the Family 22 Family Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 16 Little House a New Beginning 22 Square Pegs 28 That's Incredible 34 Great Performances 22 Private Benjamin 16 Monday Night at the Movies: 22 MASH 28 ABC Monday Night Football 34 The Magic of Dance 22 Newhart 22 Cagney and Lacey 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22Eyewitness News 34 The Dick Cavett Show 16 Tonight Show 
22 Trapper john and Columbo 34 Big Red Football 
I 

12:30p.m. 16 Late Night With David Letterman 28 ABC News Nightline 
.an The saga of a
Brl 

6 month old domer. 

-


~ 

Monday, November 22, 1982-page 16
Snorts 
Falcons w-hip Irish, first-win in 12 tries 
By CHRIS NEEDLES Using the ancient wishbone of­!:>ports Editor fense, engineered to perfection by quarterback Marty Louthan, Air COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. -force piled up 292 yards on the True to the topography of their ground, by far the most gained this home stares, Air Force played to year against NO's vaunted rushing their Pike's Peak here Saturday, defense. Louthan threw just nine while Notre Dame was just plain flat. passes all day, but paced the running Coming off two emotional games attack with 11 5 yards on 1 5 carries. as many weeks, and with their arch­Notre Dame's inability to stop the rivals USC awaiting next week, the wishbon!'= also opened some eyes, Irish were looking for the breather for the Irish have historically been that the Falcons usually provide. successful in shutting down efficient 
But times have changed. Air Force wishbone offenses -witness last is a vastly improved team, while year's 3"i-7 victory over the Falcons, Notre Dame has regressed to the the 7-0 shutout at Alabama in 1980 point where nothing is a sure vic­and, ofcourse, the ',8-1 0 mauling of tory anymore. Texas in the 1•,P8 Cotton Bowl for 
After I I straight losses in the the national championship. series, Air Force plastered the Irish, What made Saturday's game dif­30-1 7 -and don't be fooled by the ferent? score; it was 27-3 with seven "We haven't seen the wishbone all minutes left. It wasn't coo surprising year," said Irish Coach Gerry Faust. that the Falcons won the game; what "We made a lot of mistakes, and they
ban added another TD on the day, and chalked up 
was shocking was how easy they played errorless tomball. Give them
115 yards rusbing on the day. (Photo by Reese 
made it look. credit, they played a heckuva foot­
Blount -Special to The Observer) ball game." "With Southern Cal next week, there's no way they could have been up this week."' said a generous Air Force Coach _Ken Hatfield. "And
Irish hang on to beat Yugoslavia, 77-71 
when you lose your No. I quarter­back, you're scrambling.
ByWILLHARE then held on tor the narrow victory. night. 
14 free throw attempts. 
"I think I knew, I think the

Sports Writer In what Phelps termed "the best "This is the third game in 46 hours 
Notre Dame opened up a 61-37 coaches knew, and I think our
half of basketball at Notre Dame in for our team," said Yugoslavian 
lead early in the second half before players knew we could beat Notre
Former baseball manager Earl two years," the Irish used blistering Coach Milan Vasojevic through a 
Yugoslavia regrouped, snaring 21 of Dame for the first time ever."
W'eaver once referred to his team's shooting and multiple substitutions translator. "So, the traveling hurt us 
31 available second-halfrebounds. With a Sugar Bowl bid gone by the
bench as being "deep depth." If to run down a physically drained op­some. 
"We lost our offensive and wayside after last week's loss to
depth is as valuable an asset to Irish po_nent. Notre Dame broke open the "Notre Dame is not the best team 
defensive rebound intensity during Penn State, all the Irish had to play
basketball coach Digger Phelps as it score and led by as much as 17 we've played, hut they are a smart 
the spurt in the middle ofthe second for was a Bluebonnet Bowl bid ­
was to w·eaver. then Notre Dame has points in the first half, keyed by 68 team and a quick team. They may 
half," said Phelps. "We did an excel­not exactly the Holy Grail. With that
quite a weapon this season. percent shooting ( 2 5 of 37) from have a problem against bigger 
lent job in keeping our composure "incentive," Notre Oame came out
Yesterday, the Irish posted a 77-the floor. teams." 
at the end. and promptly fell behind 17-0.
71 exhibition triumph over the For the Yugoslavians, it was the "As much as you can complain 
The freshman tandem of 6-9 for­After a Tony Hunter fumble, Lout­
Yugoslavian National team at the fifth loss in six tries on their nine­about the three games in three 
ward Tim Kempton, who grabbed a han drove the Falcons 35 yards in six
ACC. All-America candidate John game tour of the United States. The days," countered Phelps, "on. our 
game-high nine rebounds, and 6-10 plays, picking up 32 of the yards
Paxson, senior Bill Varner and fresh­team was noticebly sluggish in the tour two year~ ago we had the same 
center Ken Barlow, who hit six of himself, including the final two
man Ken Barlow led the II-player first half after traveling from Provo, situation and played our best game 
nine shots, was a positive sign for yards for a wuchuuwn to give Air
scoring parade, combining for 50 of Utah, the night before and playing its the third day." 
Notre Dame. The Irish lost 17 of 27 Force a 7-0 lead midway through the
Notre Dame's points. third game in as many days. In yesterday's game, Paxson 
games last season mostly due to a first quarter.
In all, Phelps played 12 men, ex­After a win in their opener against pumped in 10 of 18 shots for a team­
lack offrontcourt firepower. The Falcons again capitalized on
perimented with the talents of five Marquette November 13th, the high 20 points, while Zarko 
an Irish mistake to up their lead to
capable freshmen and juggled Europeans have dropped five Vucurovic of Yugoslavia led all "Kempton and Barlow are blend­
14-0 in the second quarter.
several different lineups in anticipa­straight. Included in the streak are scorers with 23 points. Vucurovic ing in together fine," said Phelps. 
Linebacker Greg Zolinger inter­
tion of the regular season. an 81-74loss to Arkansas last Friday was the most valuable and the most "They'll get better as the year goes 
cepted a Ken Karcher pass and
Notre Dame exploded early for a and a narrow 81-79 defeat at the physical of the Yugoslavians, grab­on. Danny Duff also did a lot in es­51-35 bulge at the intermission, and hands of Brigham Young Saturday bing seven rebounds and compiling tablishing what we wanted to do."· See Falcons page 12 

Now ifs their turn
.. Afteryears ofplaying second fiddle, Mary D.~s women seek nationalprominence 
By MIKE RICCARDI 
Sports Writer 
124-48. 
Two years ago, a Notre Dame women's basketball team in its tirst season of Division I play took on na­tional power South Carolina and found themselves about 76 points shy of national credibility. 
Two years and two recruiting classes later, that seems like a fuzzy old black-and-white movie to Mary DiStanislao and the 1982-83 team. 
"What we had, basically, was a bunch of Division III players going against a Division I schedule," says DiStanislao, entering her third year coaching the growing Irish women's program. "Now, we're ready to go against the top teams in the nation." 
Notre Dame, having gained respectability with last winter's 16-9 record, is readying for a run at na­tional prominence against a very am­bitious schedule. No. 6 Maryland, No. 7 Georgia, No. 14 Rutgers and No. 16 Arizona State appear on the Irish schedule, as well as powerful UCLA, East Carolina, Villanova, Detroit and Illinois State. 
But while there is no dearth of power games, all talk about ND op­ponents begins and ends with two words -Louisiana Tech. 

Tech, the defending NCAA cham­pion and No. 2 in The Associated Press' pre-season poll, will visit the ACC Feb. 11 in what could be as im­portant a game for DiStanislao's program as the 1974 UCLA game was to Digger Phelps'. 
"They called us up from Ruston (La.) and asked to play here," says DiStanislao. 
"They've won the last two titles, and they have so many good players, and they want to beat Notre Dame at Notre Dame. I think we'll have a few surprises for them, though." 
One of the surprises DiStanislao· may have in mind is a big crowd. The Irish women's team has grown in front of what has seemed like a cult following ofabout 100 or so. 
This year, three women's games (Alabama, Tech and Indiana) will be included with the men's general­public season ticket package. And more than a few fans showed up ear­ly to see the women's half of last week's charity basketball doubleheader. 
All this has DiStanislao and Varsity 

Basketball Coordinator Phelps an­
ticipating a big increase in both the victory and attendance columns. And, oh yeah, the ream these fans will see should be pretty good, too. 
All five starters return from last year's team, which scored major vic­tories at Missouri and against Creighton and Marquette in the Dial Classic but missed the NCAA tourna­ment by dropping its last five games. 
In the backcourt, sophomore Laura Dougherty has had an im­pressive pre-season and should start. Dougherty, the third guard in last year's scheme who shot 50.9 per­cent from the field last year, gives the Irish a much-needed scoring threat at the off-guard position. 
Returning starters and co-captains Debbi Hensley and Theresa Mullins will split time directing !'lotre Dame's offensive attack. Both are also capable on-court coaches, with the 5-6 senior Hensley's experience and composure keeping the Irish cool, and the 5-6 junior Mullins' in­tensity keeping their tire lit. 
Denise Basford, a 5-9 freshman recruit, has shown signs of being able to step right in and contribute. Basford scored eight points, induct-
See Outlook page 14 

II. 





