, ..Griffin -page 9 

FRIDAY, APRIL 16, 1982
VOL XVI, NO. 130 tht· imkpt:mlt:nt stmknt nt:wspapt:r serving notre Jame and saint mary's 
Injures 17 
Bridge collapses, kills 12 workers 
EAST CHICAGO, Ind. (AP)-An died, and later changed the figure to where victims were taken revealed unfinished highway bridge col­12. His office said Thursday night the 'lumber brought to those lapsed yestersday as construction that Willardo's initial estimation was facilities was 17, including rwo crews poured concrete, killing 12 from one ofthe area hospitals where people who were treated and workers and injuring at least 1 7 in a the victims were taken. released. shower of shattered blocks and "To the best of my knowledge, all Willardo said two of the injured twisted steel girders. of the missing have been accounted were in critical condition. 
"All I remember was there was a for," Willardo said. The bridge collapsed in two sec­loud noise and then it started com­The names ofthe dead were being tions, about 5-10 minutes apart, ing down," said Robert Gilbert of withheld pending notification of trapping some would be rescuers af­Gary, who was working nearby relatives. ter the initial collapse. Compound­when the accident occurred at There also were conflicting ing the confusion was the fact that about 10:30 a.m. CST. "People reports as to the number of injured. supervisors didn't know some started to holler and then I ran." Coroner's attorneyJohn Kouris said workers' whereabouts at the time of 
All available ambulances in the 16 others were injured, including the accident, added to the confu­densely poulated industrialized area four critically. East Chicago Police sion. southeast of Chicago were ChiefL.R. Stiglich earlier had said 32 By late yesterday, only one vic­summoned to the scene. were injured and four trapped in the tim's body still was trapped in the 
Lake County Coroner Albert T. debris. rubble. 
Willardo initially said 15 men had A check of the two hospitals Willardo said one man's body was trapped head down in a pillar ofwet concrete that had hardened since the tragedy began. 
Willardo said rescuers wanted to

Mazzolidefends new 
remove the whole pillar and then chip away around the man's body, which was impossible under

immigration bill 
nighttime conditions. If they tried to extract him any By LAURA DEGNAN the United States both legally and il­
other way last night, "we wouldn't News Staff legally each year. 
be getting a full person.
He also included the growing un­
"We'd have to use a power saw One of the greatest problems employment rate in the U.S., with there's a safety in­
and element 
immigrants taking jobs away from
facing our world today is "the ebb volved for the people doing the job," and tlow ofthe human tide," accord­U.S. citizens at a displacement rate of 
he said. 
ing lO Kcmucky Congressman 50 percent. About 75 construction workers Romano Mazzoli, a Notre Dame Many of the immigrants who take 
were working on or under the free­
graduate who visited the campus these jobs are here illegally. A large 
standing bridgework when it gave 
yesterday to discuss his new im­percentage of the illegal workers way and plunged 50 feet to the migration bill. hold well-paying, high-skilled posi­
ground, Willardo said. "A nation's response to this tions in construction. (problem) is a measure of the great­The first important element ofthe See COLLAPSE, page 6 ness ofthat nation," Mazzoli asserted new immigration bill addresses the in a lecture last night. problem of employers hiring illegal Mazzoli said he hopes that his bill aliens, an activity which is now legal, will arrive at a mean position be­acccording to Mazzoli. K-Fundcontinues tween those who would refuse Mazzoli's bill would make it illegal everyone seeking to enter the U.S. for employers to hire or recruit 
Perruccio dies ofheartfailure
and those who would welcome anyone without documents secur­everyone. ing their legal status in the United We should not yield to voices States. By BOB VONDERHEIDE Some of Perruccio's friends here that doctors lacked research fin­have established a memorial fund to
who don't want to welcome new Congressman addressed the ques­Associate News Editor dings. defray the medical costs. Orginally,
people inlo our country, said Maz­tion of employers discriminating the money was crucial since the But Perruccio did return when he
zoll, noting that to stay great, against people who appear to be Tom Perruccio's family will al­America needs "an infusion of new foreign, such as Hispanic people, by ways remember this Easter. hospital would only have continued was strong enough. One friend said blood and new attitudes." stressing the fact that everyone Perruccio contracted pneumonia 
care as long as the money lasted. But it was his father's wish that Tom the Perruccio family has already sus­graduate from Notre Dame. Perruc­
Mazzoli stressed the necessity of could be required to submit iden­over Easter weekend that worsened the changes which would be tification upon hiring. his already severe heart condition. tained great financial loss, one friend cio was an active member of CILA brought about by the new immigra­The bill would also provide a He died early yesterday morning said, and the money is still "very and the World Hunger Coalition. 
much needed." 
Those who knew him describe him
tion bill, pointing out the increasing­when his heart finally failed. 
as quite intelligent with a great sensely large numbers of people entering See MAZZOU, page 6 Perruccio graduat~d from Notre Members of the Hall Presidents ofhumor.
Dame last May with a degree in 
Council will hold special collections
government. In late 1978, during his 
Arrangements for the funeral areat the Sunday dorm masses, and
senior year, Perruccio contracted a 
pending the arrival of Perrucio'sCampus Ministry will collect dona­
common cold that developed into a 
brother, Matt, a Notre Dame sopho­tions at the Sacred Heart Masses.
GroundZero Week 
mysterious and critical heart 
more, who has spent the year inSeveral dorms have already con­disease. 
Rome.
tributed money from their hall Doctors said Perruccio would


observes nuclearage 

never return to school, but after rwo treasuries. years in bed, he returned in fall 1980 Collections will also be held 
CINDY COLDIRON for Monday, April 19 at 4:00 p.m. in to complete his senior year studies during dinner hours Sunday and the Library Auditorium. Other
StaffReporter in three semesters. After graduation, Monday night at the dining halls. events ofthe week include a lecture he then studied at Wesleyan Univer­Contributions can also be sent to the by Ms. Patrice Franko, doctoral can­Office of Campus Ministry
Ground Zero week, a nation-wide sity near his Connecticut home on a or the 
didate in Economics, on "Nuclear

observance of events and discus­fellowship. Volunteer Services Office, and sions designed to educate and in­checks can be made out to the Per­
Arms: The Hidden Cost of Defense Spending,"; on Wednesday, April 19 

volve the American people on the But this Easter Perruccio ruccio Memorial Fund. at 4:00 p.m; a Peace Day Mass at the
issue of preventing nuclear war, is developed pnuenomia. Doctors said Grotto, (or in Sacred Heart Church Another of Perruccio's friends,
scheduled for April 18-25. that if he made it through the 

in weather), to Nicole Candiano, said that it was
Reg Weissert, committee member case of bad be weekefld, a heart transplant would celebrated by Rev. John Fitzgerald amazing that he ever returned to
of the Notre Dame Ad Hoc Commit­be his only hope for complete 

on April 22, at 8:00a.m. school, and she said much of the
tee for the Prevention of Nuclear recovery.Also on the same day ofthe Peace credit goes to the Office of Student
War, stated that the purpose of His family arranged for the opera­Mass, the South Quad will observe a Affairs. Candiano said that Dean of
Ground Zero week is "to continue tion at the University of Arizona at "Gentle Thursday" which will con­Students James Roemer and Vice
the: commitment to the nuclear Tucson and Perruccio and his sist of music beginning at 4:00 p.m. President of Student Affairs Fr. John
issue that Fr. Hesburgh and other parents were flown there Monday

The last event of Ground Zero Van Wolvlear helped to make ar­
members of the Notre Dame com­night by the U.S. Air Force. But Per­week, a film titled "The Day After
munity have expressed." ruccio suffered a relapse of 

rangements possible.
Trinity:). Robert Oppenheimer and
The first event scheduled for pneumonia while in Arizona before Candiano noted that the diseasethe Atomic Bomb," will be shown in

Ground Zero week is a film called the operation was possible and he "I"
Perruccio contracted is usually im­
"The Last Epidemic, Medical Conse­the Memorial Library Auditorium at died at about 2 a.m. yesterday. Tom Perruccto 
mediately fatal. The disease is so rare 
quences ofNuclear War," scheduled 7:30p.m. 



---.~---­

Friday, April16, 1982-page 2

NewsBrieb 

By The Observer and The AssociatedPress 
Christian educationwhether formal or informal, is 
indispensable to the mission of the Church, according to Notre 
Dame President Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh. In an address given 
Wednesday to the National Catholic Educational Association con­
vention at McCormick Place in Chicago, Hesburgh said that 
"without formal or informal Christian education, it is highly unlikely 
that sufficient people will be formed in the manner that will insure 
the <;ontinual growth and expression of the Kingdom of God for 
which the Church ultimately exists." Hesburgh cited Latin America 
as a region where the lack of a Catholic educational system might 
well have hampered such things as the development of vocations. 
Describing the increasing numbers of Cath.>lic elementary and 
secondary school closings as a result from a "crisis of nerve," Hes­
burgh remarked that "one ofour greatest apostolic instrumentalities 
has been blunted and abandoned -even though the building was 
there, the need was there, the financing was available if one were 
willing to seek it, the teachers could be attracted, even though most 
would have been lay rather than religious -and still they closed one 
ofthe best gates to heaven that has yet been devised by the Church. 
All I can say is: What a shame! May we yet recover." Hesburgh called 
for a redoubling of efforts by Catholic educational professionals in 
the face ofthe decline, adding that "the Church desparately needs all 
ofyou and your enlightened efforts today if the Kingdom ofGod is to 
be more present in our day." -The Observer 
:Britain said yesterdaythe Argentine navy may try skirting the 200-mile war zone around the Falkiand Islands, and the British Broadcasting Corp. quoted Buenos Aires military sources as saying an unspecified number of Argentina's 31-ship fteet already had sailed. There was no comment from Argentina, which said two ofits gunboats breached the zone earlier in the week in defiance of 8ritish submarines and an approaching 40-ship British armada. secretary ofState Alexander M. HaigJr. headed back to Buenos Aires in a bid to avert war. British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, after a two-hour briefing at Defense Ministry headquarters in London, canceled plans to leave for her country home 30 miles from London. A spokesman at her 10 Downing St. office said Mrs. Thatcher's schedule remained "tlu~d." The British Defense Ministry said Mrs. Thatcher was told Argentine vessels woul<! be expected to sail toward the Falkiands, the archipelago about 250 miles east ofArgen­~a·s southern tip that Britain had ruled since 1833 and Argentine forces seized April 2. -AP 
The Soviet Union bas a 4-to-1 advantage over the West In Intermediaterange nuclearweapons In Europe but the gap is smaller than the Reagan adminJstration claims, according to NATO sources. Informed NATO sources said in Brussels yesterday a nearly completed study scheduled for publication in the next few weeks says the Soviet Union has an estimated 3,080 intermediate range nuclear missiles and atomic bombers compared to about 800 com­parable European-based weapons for NATO. In recent months, the Reagan administration hll1' asserted there is a 6-to-1 Soviet advantage -3,825 weapons for the Soviet Union compared to 560 for NATO. The administration figures do not include British aircraft on the NATO side and give higher figures than NATO for the number of Soviet aircraft available for nuclear missions against Western Europe. -AP 
Authorities in Lake County' Indiana are ask­
ing the public's help in identifying the dismembered, abandoned body ofan infant found at a landfill this week. Lt. Richard Domazet of the Lake County Sherilfs Department said there were few clues to help identify the baby, which was discovered Wednesday. The body was uncovered Wednesday by a bulldozer, which apparently dis­membered the infant. "It made it virtually unrecognizable," said Domazet. "All we've got is a partial heelprint." The baby was believed to be female, but Domazet said that wasn't even positive. However, the coroner's office assured officers that the baby was full­term, ranging in age from 24 hours to two months old. Further tests are planned to help identify the child, but ifthey fail, officials may call in an anthropologist to help determine sex, age and other char/ characteristics ofthe infant, Domazet said. The police officer said the landfill was not a large one but several companies use it, making investigation more. difficult. -AP 
DeputySecretaryofState WalterJ. Stoe~sel said 
yesterday he was optimistic about his mission to ensure Israel's withdrawal from the Sinai by the April25 deadline. In Cairo, where Stoessel is due to arrive Friday, Egyptian Foreign Minister Kamal Hassan Aly also expressed confidence that the Israeli pullout would be completed by the date set in the 1979 peace treaty between Israel and Egypt. Prime Minister Menachem Begin compiained during a two-hour meeting with Stoessel that Egypt was not fully honoring its .peace treaty commitments. Begin presented a list ofalleged political and military infractions, Israeli officials said. "We undertook to con­sider these (complaints) very seriously as a full partner In the peace process," Stoessel said. "I am optimistic for a good outcome." Stoes­sel was sent by President Reagan to resolve the last minute problems after Secretary ofState Alexander M. HaigJr. found himself too busy 
with the Falkiand Islands crisis. -AP 
Today 90 percent chance for thunderstorms. Highs upper 60sand low 70s. Lows tonight 50s with 70 percent chance for thunderstorms. Saturday, cooler with a good chance for rain· showers. Highs in the 50s. -AP 

Still a way to go 

We've all heard the old jingle,"you've come a long way baby." This little ditty can easily describe the progress made in women's sports in the past two · decades. Over the past few years, women have been assuming more roles in the athletic world, with the public recognizing their growing contribution. 
Complete acceptance of this fact is still far off; however. At Notre Dame, for example, their still exists an undercurrent offeeling that athletics for women are secondary to priorities like marriage and family. This attitude is .not unique to Notre Dame. 
Women athletes are still facing the criticism ofthose who believe that their place is in the home and not on the athletic field or court. Although progress has been made, people's attitudes still have a great deal ofchang­ing to do. 
One reason for the "non-accepting" attitude toward women's sports may lie in the fact that men have always had a much greater oppurtunity to make a career out of athletics than have women. Traditionally, students at Notre Dame have attended classes with athletes ha':"ing professional potential. In the past, the University has not been able to attract this calibre ofathlete in women. 
This trend is ending, however. A Division I bas­ketball team like Notre Dame can attract a greater number of high school stars than a Division III school. Similarly, scholarships are attracting more circuit ten­nis players, something dif­ficult to do in the past. The women's sport program can only grow because ofthis. 
The intensity level of women's sports has also in­creased in the past years. Be­cause of grade school and high school programs in many sports, women enter­ing into a sport at the college level are much better skilled than their predecessors. As a­result there has been a growing trend of freshman beating out upperclassmen and seniors for positions on teams. This trend has been occurring more and more in Notre Dame's women's varsity tennis team where 50 percent ofthe players are freshmen. 
An increase in the budget for women's sports has cor­responded with the growing interest. Sharon Petro, Chairman of the Physical Education Department, believes that the administration has made a commit­ment to women. She believes that the University must show that they are willing to make changes and to · spend the money necessary to do so. 
The University has not always been so obliging, however. It wasn't until January of 1980 that the Uni­versity initiated athletic scholarships for women, nearly 5 years after Title IX went into effect. Until that time, University administrators openly expressed their op­position to Title IX, fearing that it would be the ruin of men's sports by drai .ning their budget. One University employee estimated that the University paid Sl million 
in lawyers' fees to fight Title IX in court. 
~~-·­
Design Edltor ..................Gregory Swiercz Design Assistants: .....-....... Marilyn Larkin Layout Staff.............................. Mike Dixon Typesetters................................... Steve Burg Bob Judge Copy Editors ............................. Ed Konrady Rich Adam Features Layout ...:.................... Tari Brown Editorials Layout.......,,.....,........ Tim Neely Sports Copy Editor ...,.......... Chris Needles Dave Dziedzic Typist ... Mary Beth Poner, Mike Onman, Laura Degnan, Tom Maclennan ND Day Edltor .....................)oe Musumeci SMC Day Editor ................Cindy Coldiron Ad Design .John & Mary, but mostly Katie Photographer ............•............ Cheryl Enelt Guest Appearances .......... peppermint ice cream, junk food, a couple of well· dressed men Suz, a defeated restless shade 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods. The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary s Col· lege. Subscnp!IOns may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wntlng The Observer P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer 1S a member of The Associated Press All reproductiOn nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame.lndlana46556 


As a teacher, Petro has seen the attitude changes which have occurred within the classroom ·setting. Men and women in the freshmen gym classes still seem to be attacted to traditional "boys" and "girls" sports but mixing is occurring more and more. IfclaSses were not coed, for example, it is very possible that men would never see that women are as athletically capable as they are in many sports. In the same sense, many women would never realize that they can compete with men. Coeducational gym claSses force the individual into rethinking their own abilities. 
Although Petro does not see a sexist atmosphere in physical education, she does believe that females are often treated differently than men in gym classes. In the. 
.more sports like racquetball, women are often separated from men in tournaments because their instructors (male) feel that the women will be hurt in competion. One hundred and thirty years as an all­male school has established an attitude of male dominancy in the minds of .many. The "older" population still has not fully accepted . the role ofwomen in sports. Much of the progress that has taken place can be at­tributed to the efforts of people like Billie Jean King who have worked endlessly to make people aware of the 
r;~~~~~~~Q. -presence ofwomen and the "' changes that need to be made. 
Many doubt that it is possible to legislate people's attitudes; prejudices are never easily changed. Most · people will agree that only time can change these at­titudes. 
The University's· tenth year of coeducation this year has brought about a number ofspeeches about the con­tribution that women have made in the University and their important role in the future of Notre Dame. The time when women had to prove themselves has passed. The sooner our attitudes change, the better things will be for women athletes. 

Observer notes 
It was incorrectly reported in yesterday's news briefs that the College of Engineering Honor Awards were presented last Friday. The awards will be presented 
· tonight at the the Center to:. Continuing Education. 

continues:· Friday, Aprill6, 8 pm Saturday, Aprill7, 8 pm Sunday, Aprill8, 2 pm 

------~-----~
----
-------~ 
The Observer 
ShroudofTurin 

Muggli speaks on newdiscoveries 
By ANNE MONAS1YRSKI 
News Staff 
"The current image on the Shroud ofTurin is not magical. The image is there becau~ of the iron oxide and collogin present." 
This is the conclusion made by Dr. Robert Muggli, microscopist who spoke last night in the N~tre Dame Ubrary Auditorium. Muggli is employed by McCrone Associates, a scientific investigation firm. 
Muggli discussed the findings of the investigation made by Dr. McCrone of McCrone Associates. One of the thirty-two scientists to examine the Shroud of Turin, the cloth thought to be the burial cloth ofJesus, McCrone is the only scien-

Students increase, faculty unchanged 
By CINDY COLDIRON 
StuffReporter 
In the past five years the number of students enrolled in the College of Engineering has increased sub· stantially while there has been vir­tually no increase in the number of faculty members. 
The total enrollment in this col­lege has increased from 825 stu· dents in 197'5 to 1,300 in the fall of 1981. The percentage of women en­rolled in engineering has also in­crea.~ed from under 10 percent in 197'5 to over 20 percent by 1981. 
Predicting that he expected the number of students enrolled in the School of Engineering to peak soon, Dean of Engineering Roger Schmitz said that "we would be overreacting if we increased the number of faculty because we would have to decrease it when the number ofstu· dents declined." 
Dean Schmitz said that the management of enrollment could not be acomplished unless there were major changes in policy ad­ministration. These changes, he said, were not necessary. Instead, he sug­gested "better jobs in advising and counseling students in the school of engineering" as a possible solution for the current increase. 
Assistant Dean ofEngineering,Jer­ry Marley, referred to the growing engineering enrollment at Notre Dame "as part ofa nation-wide trend occuring In many universities across the country." He explained, "It may have been a question that we were merely under-utilized when we only 

', q,,
Movin'out? 

'''7A~,),, 
,,~ ?~' '",~ r>-',
~~~"'0~-'





RENT A 
' '"$0'

'~ .,Ill ~.A 
~ ~,
RYDER TRUCK For Information ' ',, 
& Reservations ' 
If you're 18 or over you can rent a Ryder truck to use locally or on a 
Call 277-3550 
one-way (rent-rt-here,leave-it-there) trip to another city 
Compare costs before you make plans for moving at the end 1-"!!"_-----------~~~­of the semester With a truck you can take along your stereo. 10-speed. 1Notre Dame/St.MaryS clothes. all your stuff. and still have plenty of room for one or two other 1 SfleC• l people and therr thrngs. so you can share the costs. Compare that to a 1 r Ul 
plane ticket Or even a bus. 1 
1QO/ 0 F F 
. Rent from the best-maintained, most dependab!e fleet in [R ]I /0 ....a... 1 
With this COUPON and yourStudent/Facalty ID 
through June 30,1982 
~C:?.<!~~~~~~.:.~!'~!~~rz~·~· 
YDER TRUCK-RENTAL 
2715N. BENDIXDR South Bend 
tist to dispute the authenticity ofthe cloth. 
McCrone made his discoveries by microscopic examination, "This is something none of the other scten· tists ever did," said Muggli. 
The investigation revealed that the shroud is coated with a film of iron oxide and collogin, a mixture commonly used as a pigment for centuries. It is not known from the investigation whether a pigment ever existed on the shroud or if an original pigment was enhanced to preserve the existing image. 
The film, much like tempra paints, was probably applied to the shroud sometime during the sixteenth cen­tury, Muggli speculates. 
Fibers from all parts ofthe shroud 
had 825 students in the school of Engineering and we are just now ap· proaching our capacity." 
Referring to the problem of being unable to shift faculty back and forth from one academic unit to another to meet student enrollment fluctua­tions, Marley stated that for the most part they have handled increased en­rollment with an increase in the size ofsections. 
"Chemical, Electrical, and Mec­hanical are the most impacted departments, but we could stand a peak load for a short time without seriously impacting the quality of education," Marley said. "From an educational quality standpoint, we do need to decrease enrollment from where it presentiJ.~~~nds." 




EASY RIDER. 
TO .AID ftOII CHICAGO'S O'IIAII 

were microscopically studied. "The blood on the fibers are quite red," said Muggli. This contradicts the fact that old blood is brown. 
Only small amounts ofsulfur were ~ound in the blood stained areas, also indicating that the stains could not be blood, according to Muggli. 
Other tests were performed on the stained portions of the cloth to determine the presence of blood. These all proved negative, "even though these same tests turned up positive when done on Egyptian mummies," Muggli said. 
Muggli does not contend that all previous evidence regarding the shroud is no longer valid, but he does emphasize that these new dis­coveries cannot be ignored. 
Dean Schmitz felt that because of this increase, the laboratory sections have been effected the most and some of the classroom methods have changed. "For example, the project-type courses where there is a need for individual contact be­tween the student and teacher are made more difficult," said Schmitz. 
Dean Marley felt that lab space and equipment were "resources that this college has been blessed with" and that with the addition of FitzPatrick Hall in 1975 this space has doubled. 
Stressing that this increase in stu­dents is not a "severe problem," Marley said that "unless the nations economy turns around, the projected strong demand for en­gineers will decline." 
----~-----­
Friday, April16, 1982 page 3 

Visiting Professor Otto Maduro discussed "Contemporary Latin American Catholicism: Changes and Challenges" last night in Haggar Hall. Maduro is teaching a course on religion in Latin America for the Department ofSociology and Anthropology. He was keynote speakerfor the recentSociology Graduate and Under­graduate Research Convention. (Photo by Cheryl Ertelt) 
LOVERBOY 
With Special Guest 
~ 
FRIDAY, APRIL 16 8 pm ACC-Notre Dame Univ. South Bend, Indiana Tickets $9 and 10. Reserved Seats. 
T•ckets available al A C C BolC olhce Aobenson·s 
•n South Bend and Concord Mall Elkhat'l Trulh Fust Source Bank tma•n othce) St Joseph Bank cma•n oll•ce) and Suspended Chora '" Elkhart 
Produced by Contemporary with Sunshine 
TONIGHT! 


PRAYER-----. 
vVe feel God present and hear Him call us to be ~~i~l. We give thanks to the lord and pray for our world's healing. If you, like us, need to search for the lord ir, prayer, we invite you to consider joining our Benedictine monastery. • The Monks of Saint Louis Priory. 

For informaliOft wrile: 
Fr. IWplt~rijsht, QS11 · · · loom 11 5.tinl Louis Pr'ior, 500 So. Mason Road St. Louis, Missouri 63141 

. __._._.~rr') ~ 
:_::~~i 
r---_T_h_e__O_b_s_e-rv_e_r______________________________________-__-_-_:-~_-__~~----------~--~-~-------~F--r-id_-a_y~,=A=p=r-il--:~6~,--1-9_8_-:---p-a_g_e~4------FinanceOub 
Wilmouth defines Board role 

BySANDYVALENZUELA 
News Staff 

Speaking on the oldest and largest commodity exchange in the world, the Chicago Board ofTrade, Robert 
K. Wilmouth, its president, presented a lecture sponsored by the Finance Club yesterday after­noon in the Hayes-Healy Auditorium. 
"Some people ~ave gotten a very, 
very  expensive  education  out  
there,"  said  Wilmouth  of  the  
Chicago Board ofTrade.  

"The Board ofTrade is often thought of as exclusively a grain market. It's not ...There's also trading in such diverse 'commodities' as. plywood, iced broilers, gold, silver, Ginnie Mae mongage cenificates, Treasury Bonds, and commercial paper ...financial instruments that are essentially the lOU's of private companies." 
According to Wilmouth, money managers in every company are in­volved in being a borrower or a len­der ofmoney. 
In 1977, 95 percent of the trade 

Cabaret opened last night in Washington Hall and wtll be per­formed again Friday through Sunday.(Pboto by Cheryl Ertelt) 
center business was grain related. Now, five years later, 50 percent deals with financial futures. They are also trying for contracts in the energy field. 
"Futures markets exist as a way to manage price risks inherent in the 


Now Showing: 1:50-4:20--6: 55-9:10 
""'' ··. ,.,,,.,.,_ ·W .···•• i't'· Ji::l t ( 

:··}'··:·I'he uitimatein·_·sight:~d-·srlu~····-::::11.. ::x .: .. 
r:JJ~~--re-record~d-·iri·ne~--digttal···ste~tii ·:::[,l!:. ;.,;.:::..':-:-:-::.':-.-.'.',-:;'·::. 
cash markets,"stated Wilmouth. Thus, the buyers and sellers try to protect themselves from an un­favorable price change. 
"The agreement through which buyers and sellers come to is called a futures contract," Wilmouth said. "This contract states that the price is deterined competitively in a public market." 
Buyers try to 'hedge' changing in­terest rates. "Hedging is nothing more or less than a price insurance," Wilmouth said. 
Speculators, Wilmouth explained, are not as notorious as they are famed to be. Speculators are an im­ponant part ot the system. "Speculators assume price risks ... willing to be buyers at times when sellers need buyers and to be sellers at times when buyers need sellers." 
Wilmouth stated that, "Speculative investors are perhaps a market's best source of up-to-date information and analysis concerning supply and demand ...They per­form a vital role in the process of price discovery." 

Wilmouth also clarified the pan of the Board ofTrade in the silver price crash of 1980 explaining that they did impose special speculating con­ditions on the buying ofsilver. 
Art Departmentoffers The LanguageofArt 
The Notre Dame An Department will be adding a new course and offering two old ones which haven't been seen for some time this fall. 
Prof. Charles Rosenberg will be teaching a general introduction to the analysis and appreciation of art for the first time. This course, en­titled The Language ofAn (An 280) is intended to provide the student with some of the basic tools needed to understand and appreciate the structure and content of the visual ans. 
The course will consider anum­ber ofthematically organized topics, including: the relationship between material, technique and image; the deciphering ofsymbols; the status of the anist; his social responsibilities; and the issue of quality and popular criticism. 
The Language of An is intended for students who have had little or no background in the visual ans. It is not a studio course, though the stu­dents will have the opponunity to participate in one "making" assign­ment during the semester. 


ICELANDAIR INTRODUCES 
NEW BAROAIN FARES TO 

MORE OF EUROPE. 
WXEMBOURG PARIS 


'499 '581 
ROUIDTRIP ROUIDTRIP 
FROM CHICAGO FROM CHICAGO 
ZURICH 



·55il

'599 

ROUIDTRIP 
ROUIDTRIP 
FROM CHICAGO FROM CHICAGO 

All Apex Farr.: Apnl 1 ·May 14. l9ij2. 7·90 day stay (7-60 days Luxrm· bourg). Slopovrrs J)f'rmtUr-d 1n both dJrt-ctJOnti. 14 day advance ptJrchast requ1rrd. Seals hmned. Ask about our low cost Normal. Samto Day. and Group farr-s. too 
ALSO LOW COST CONNECTING SERVICE TO NICE AND AMSTERDAM. 
lcelandatr to Lu\embourg. Luxa1r or Crossa•r connecting serVIce 
to other destmatlons. 

• 
Confirmed reservation. • Free w\lle w1th dmner. cognac after. 

• 
Bargam Stopover-Tours of Iceland and Luxembourg. • Bar gam car rentals. • Purchase tickets 111 U.S. • All fares subject to change and government approval. 


Sre your lravt'l a)(enlor call M00/555-1212 lor lht' toll fret> lcelandatr number m your area 
ICELANDAIR~ 
IU•J:t:f,J}If/!t:IJ1i·li•lij·l '£il2t101f,Jlll·l·l;l 

WORK 
\'Ve cied1cate ourselve., to work ror the lt>rci in our monastery's apostolate.; or teach1ng, pastoral work, and other m1n1str1e>. It vou also want work to be a response to God's love within yuu, we invite vou to consider JOining our Benedictine monasterY. The Monks ot Saint Louis Priorv. 

For iniormation write: 
Fr. Ralph Wright, OSB Room 17 Saint louis Priory 500 So. Mason Road St. louis, Missouri 63141 

I ...!".~. ·~~ ~._,' " ' 


The Observer Friday, April 16, 1982 --page 5 


News Staff 
CILA, the: Community for the In­
ternational Lay Apostulatc:, has 
compiled a list of courses that will 
be offered next semester that 
"spread social justice issues," said 
Co-Communications Officer Lorrie 
Brach. 
The list of courses was made by 
the Education and Communication 
Offices of ClLA. The list was 
compiled to "help people become 
more aware of the issues we think 
they would like to become more 
aware of," stated Brach. 
ClLA is an organization that is con­
cerned with spreading awareness of 
social justice to both campuses. 
Here is the list of courses that ClLA 
recommends: 
Notre Dame 

Theology 340 Corporate Conscience ITT2 Mertensotto, Heppen 342 Christian Ethics 9MWF10, 11 MWF12 Gaffney 
344 Medical Ethics IITTI2 Yoder, IIMWF12 Mertensotto 347 War, Peace and Revolution 1TT2Yoder 373 Theology and Community Service 3Tues5 McNeill 374 Church and Social Justice 3Thurs5 McNeill 379 Reflections on Service 4Wed6 McNeill 
If you're a senior and have the prt)mise of a $10,000 career-oriented job, do you know 
what's stopping you from getting the American Express· Card! You guessed it. Nothing. 
Because American Express believes in your future. Bur more than that. We believe in you now. And we've proving it. A $10,000 job promise. That's it. No strings. No gimmicks. And this offer is 
even good for 12 months after you graduate. But why should you get the American Express Card now? Because the Card is great for shopping. 
Whether it's a new suit t(x the job or a new stereo ftlr home, the American Expre~s Card is .welcomed at the tlnest stores all over the country. And even if you need tumJturl' tor your place, you can do it with the Card. 
Of cuurse, it's also great for restaurants, hotels, and tnl':el. It also begins to establish your credit hb .lry-for any really big things you migh1 net· . 
So call80 -128-8000 ti.)r a Special Student Apph _·ation or look for one at yuur college btlokst1 1re or on campus bulletin boards. 
The Amencan Express Card. Don't leave school without it.'"' 
,, 

' 

Economics 
380 Development Economics 

4TT5 Wilber 
401 Social justice Biography 9TT1I Goulet (cross-listed under GOVT 401 and SOC 40I) 
428 Altruism in Economics 

2TT4 Croteau 
471 International Economics 

2TT4 Kim 
Government 34I International Relations IITT12, I TT2 O'Brien 409 Religion and Politics 2MW4 I.eege 430 International PoliticaJ Economy 2TT4 Libby 
Politics

449 Latin American 2MW4 Pomerleau 
History 

342 Weapons and Policy/Nuclear Age 2MWF3 Norling 343 The U.S. and Central 
America 1 TT3 Shapiro 345 American Catholics since Vatican 111TT2 Dolan 
Philosophy 
241 Ethics 9TT11, 11TT12 

243 Moral Problems 1TT2, 2TT4 Wachsberg 246 Ethics and Business IITT12, 9TTII, 10MWF11, 


Justice  
11 MW 12 Delaney  
Sociology  
3I3  Sociology  of  Poverty  
I MWF2 Lamanna  

3I4 Sociology o09f Business IMWF2 Scott 
332 Criminology IIMWFI2 Vasoli 373 Religion and Labor Rela­tions 2TT4 Sullivan 
406 Internship Seminar Vasoli 

499 Urban Studies Internship Lamanna 
Anthropology 

4II Modernization and Development Strategies I1:I5MW12:30 Despres 
Saint Mary's RLST 331 Contemporary Moral Issues 3MW5 Cady RLST 356 WorldJustice and the Church 1TT2 Martin ENLT 203 Literature of Social Justice 1 TT3 Lowe PSYC 209E Community Responsibility of Social Issues 6M8 Miller SOC 355 American Minorities 2MWF3 McKelvey PHIL 242 Business Ethics 3MW5Hawk GOVT 151 Contemporary Political Issues 9,10MWF Pierce; 1,2MWF Hartzer GOVT 306 Criminal justice 1MWF2Brisbin 
~-.... )"0:K·· 
:'···~~ 1o 

Argentinian soldiers tote their duffel bags over their shoulders after arriving on tbe Falkland Islands Tuesday. Tbe troops were sent to reinforceArgentina'sposition on tbe islands against a pos­sible British effort to retake tbem. Diplomatic efforts to avoid figbttng over tbe islands continue. (AP Laserpboto) 
~$1~ 
PRICESGOOD 

499 
THRU APRIL 30 EA. 
, · 

ASK ABOUT OUR CAMELOT 
. I 

MUSIC CLASSICAL CLUB
lF 
TODAY! 



COMMUNITY 
We respond to God 1n prayer and in work as brothers: 
We ~upport each other as we live a common life. 
It you are searching ior the ideab and the challenge 
which commitment to a c'lmmunity offers, we mvite 
you to consider joining our Benedictine monastery. 
The Monks of Saint louis Priory. 
t 
For information write: Fr. Ralph Wright, OSB
\W/ 
Room 17 

\\l&_l~~~l/ Saint louis Priory 500 So. Mason Road.\~llaajj~t St. louis, Missouri &3141 


-~­

The Observer Friday, April 1~, 1982 -page 6 
i ..~G~~, .t~~~ . 
IO TRYOUTS ~· 

SUN APRIL IS WEDAPRILll 
6:30pm in the ACC pit 
********************************** 
Tommy .':iie Chautauqua· LaFortune Ballroo 
April 16, 17 at 8,10, 12 

I $1.00 
!***********************************I rea~uring 
llton John* Ann-Margaret * Eric Clapton * Tina Turner * Jack Xicholson 
I~tttttttt.~~?.~flli\t~.!l\t:::::::: 

ARMY ROTC BASIC CAMP 
-Complete 2 years ofROTC in six weeks. -Compete for a 2-year Army ROTC scholarship.
,j 
~ 1 -Obtain Advanced ROTC standing. -Basic Camp Pay: S600.00. -Recieve S iOO per month while enrolled in ROTC. -Graduate as aSecond Lieutenant. -Entry dates are between May 17th and July 12th. 


TO QUALIFY 
-You must have two years ot college remaining. (Either graduate or undergraduate) 
-You must ?eat le~t 17 years ofage and under 30years of age when commissioned. (Scholarshtp apphcants must be under 25 Years ofage on June 30th of calender year scheduled for commissioning) 

For Further Information Call: Major Bob Mcllhargie 239-6264/6265 

...Collapse 
· continuedfrom page 1 

The portion that collapsed was part of an elevated ramp leading onto the Cline Avenue Extension from Riley Road. 
The Cline Avenue Extension was being built to link steel mills on the Lake Michigan shore with the city of East Chicago. 
East Chicago city councilman Daniel Ferrersaid the project, which was supposed to be completed in the spring of 1983, had been under construction for two years. 
"Evidently they were pouring concrete on one ofthespans when it collapsed. Presumably what fell was the false work -the scaffolding that 
Law students 

sponsor weekend 

The Notre Dame Chapter of the Black American Law Students As­sociation will conduct its lOth an­nual Alumni Weekend beginning tomorrow. 
The purpose of the weekend is to honor the many acomplishments of black graduates of Notre Dame Law School, and to give information and guidance to present minority law students as well as undergraduates interested in a legal career. 
The main event ofthe weekend is the banquet, tomorrow, in the Ramada Inn at 5:30. The keynote speaker is Millard Arnold, a 1974 graduate ofNotre Dame Law School. Tickets are $3.50 and may be purchased at the door. 
--An events are open to the public. Undergraduates interested in a legal _91'eer are encouraged_to attend. 
holds up the forms for the con­crete," said Gene Hallock, director of the Indiana Department of High­ways. 
Conrad Swalwell, a 31-year-old carpenter who was working next to the bridge at the time, said workmen 
"were pouring concrete and all of a sudden the first section just buckled down." 
He said one 250-foot section fell 
to the ground, followed shortly by a 
second section. 

"The first section buckled, then about three minutes later you heard a big boom and the second secion went down," Swalwell said. "I saw three guys go with it. It was like slow motion. It just catapulted those guys throgjh the air." 
St. Catherine's Hospital in East 
Chicago treated 16 of the injured, 
said William Schenck, a hospital 
spokesman. "I don't know what the 
injuries are because the people still 
are being treated -but they're 
serious injuries," he said. 

Another accident victim was 
treated at St. Margaret's Hospital in 
nearby Hammond. 

A temporary morgue was set up at 
a steel mill infirmary near the acci­
dent site, said Willardo. 

East Chicago Mayor Bob Pastrick 
said the remainder of the bridge 
structure was in danger of collapse, 
and construction workers were sta­
tioned around the area to keep 
people away. 

Four large cranes were brought 
into the dust-choked disaster scene 
to help remove the huge, broken 
blocks ofrubble. 

A crowd of spectators covered a 
hill of dirt behind the accident site, 
looking down at the swarm of 
police, fire and rescue personnel 
picking through the pile of twisted 
metal and concrete. 

More than 100 emergency 
vehicles clogged the disaster site as 
doctors and paramedics, many still 
continuedfrom page 1 

strengthening of the border be­tween the United States and Mexico. Mazzoli said the Immigration Naturalization Service (INS), which controls the border, should be strengthened 
His new immigration bill would provide for amnesty ~or illegal aliens_ dressed in surgical green-;-treated 
the injured before placing them on 
ambulances. 

The bridge spans the Indiana 
·Haror Ship Canal, which connects 
into Lake Michigan. But Hallock said 
the part that collapsed was the ramp 
bridge that connects with an inter­change and not the part over the water. 
Bill Rabb, 42, an employee at the Amoco oil refinery nearby said he saw the bridge go down 
"It came down in sections," Rabb said. "It looked like a bunch of dominos.',' 
Rabb said when he and two co­
workers ran to the site "there were 
guys lying all over." 

Willardo said there will be an in­
quest in two to three weeks, which 
also will investigate the cause of the 
accident. 

At St. Catherine Hospital in East 
Chicago, Schenck said those injured 
and admitted there were identified 
as: Charles Calhoun, 44, of Gary; 
Felix Schacki, 61, of Merrillville; 
Harry Bunkowfst; Mario Cloutier, 
39, of Hobart; Robert Pegg, 25, of 
Schererville; Kevin Riley, 21; Willie 
Newman; Fred Torrijas, 22, ofMichi­
gan City; Lloyd Peck; Harold War­
ren, 29, of Hobart; Don Hanft; and 
David Nelson. 

They were believed to be con­
struction workers or highway 
department workers, Schenck said. 
Two paramedics, Bonnie Moe and 
Artie Vasquez, were injured in the 
rescue attempt and hospitalized. 

Two other people, Don Bricker 
and John LaGura, were treated and 
released, Schenck said. 

At St. Margaret Hospital in Ham­
mond, spokesman Martin Kremer 
said construction worker Donald 
Ketchum, 26, of North Judson, Ind., 
would be admitted to the intensive 
care unit following surgery. He was 
admitted with chest injuries and a 
broken arm. 

• • • Mazzoli 
in the United States who have been here sincfY before 1980, and who have "put roots in their com­munity." Mazzoli feels that these people have done a service to the community in which they settled, if they have participated and worked hard at honest jobs. 
This provision is controversial be­cause some people feel that it rewards illegal activity. Mazzoli feels that it is "unfair to recognize that these people didn't break the law," while they were here, peacefully contributing to the growth and well­being oftheir communities. 
Further points about the bill which Mazzoli brough up regarded the question of granting asylum. He feels that the current system can't handle the some 106,000 asylum cases presently pending the INS. The bill would move the job of judging questions of asylum away from the enforcers. of the law to a separate group, within the Justice Depart­ment, but outside the INS. 
The new bill would provide greater leniency towards Amerasian children, fathered by U.S. soldiers in Asia, facilitating permission for adoption, up to age 25. It would also require that foriegn students in U.S. universities leave the U.S. for at least 2 years before adjusting their status in the U.S. 
Mazzoli pointed out that foriegn 
students who remain in the United 
States after graduation, and become 
citizens, "deprive their countries of 
their talent and skills." 

The last hearing for the bill in 
Congress is this Tuesday. Mazzoli 
expects support from the Ad­
ministration, as well as from various 
labor groups. 

Friday, April16, 1982-page 7 





Editorials 

The current crisis in the Falldand Islands reminds us of how tenderly world peace is held together by Im­perfect men running imperfect governments. 
Edward Konrady and Randy Fahs 
President Galtleri's regime in Ar­gentina has been on the brink ofcol­lapse for a number of months. 
For over a century, the occupation of the Falkland Islands by the British has been a major topic in the Argentine press. The chance to buy some time for the fragile government was too much for Gal­tieri to pass up. 
Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher ha!! had her problems with the English economy. The Invasion of the Falkland Islands provided the Conservatives and herself with a major challange. If the government cannot provide defense, what is It doing? Any settlement that does not let Brltian "save face" will probably topple the Conservatives. 
The issue is an Important one fo1 the British. The English press I! seeing more than Argentina taking a group of islands. They see a rein· , carnation of a Hitler mentality ...-It 
the English do not stop a "power---~--.... 
hungry dictator" from taking land at will, who will? They are feeling the reverberations of Czechoslovakia's takeover (through the Munich Con­ference of 1938), and strong action Is necessary. 
A face-saving compromise can be the only solution to this problem. Thatcher and the Conservatives 

USA LENNON, College of Busi­ness 
"/ think it should be a woman, Sandra Day O'Conner, because it's tbe lOth year Anniversary of women atNotre Dame." 
CHRIS BARLOCK, College of Engineering 
"The pope would be good, but I don't think Ted bas that much pull." 
know what Is at stake and will not go 
down without a major fight. 
If Galtieri loses, his government will fall, but more importantly, the new government will want to boost the country's morale. 
How? Well, if you can't beat a large country, you go after a smaller one. The Beagle Straits have been contested by Chile and Argentina for years. All ofthe legal decisions have sided with Chile. At the present time, Pope John Paul II is mediating this problem. 
Relatively powerful Argentina will probably defeat Chile, and a slow domino effect may occur. Peru, to the north ofChile, feels that Chile is unfairly holding Peruvian land north ofAntofagasta This is land that Chile received when England felt that Chile would be most favorable to English exploration ofthe world's largest natural nitrate reserves in that p~ ofthe country. 
Campus Voice 

Campus Voice is a new feature which will appear every Friday in Tbe Observer's editorials page. Each week randomly selected students and faculty will be asked for their views concerning a relevant issue. Today's question, asked graduating seniors, is "Who do you think should be Notre Dame's commencement speaker and why?" 
(Photos and interviews by Cheryl Erte/t.) 
LAURIE ZELLMER, College of Science 
"Mother Teresa because her life exemplifies tbe Christian tradition the University tries to present to us." 

An island chain reaction 
If Peru were to overtake this mineral-rich land Peru could not mobilize its army quickly, but once it did, it would have little difficulty in defeating Chile. 
Why? Well, nearby Bolivia has a navy. However, Bolivia has no direct water route to the ocean. This is a problem that Bolivians would love to remedy by taking Chilean land. 
North of Peru is Ecuador. Peru is holding land east of Ecuador that Ecuador once had and would like again. H Peru was busy with a war against Chile, it would be the perfect time for Ecuador to try to take that Peruvian land. Ecuadorians, of course, realize this fact. 
Elsewhere in South America, Venezuela is having problems with Guyana, who is having problems with Surinam, and ofcourse there is Brazil who feels that they should have the whole continent. 
Although we have suggested the 

VAL TRINKLEY College of Engineering 
"Someone funny, a comedian, 

Garry Trudeau, because right now 1----------------------------~ 

school is a joke and I can't think of a better way to sum it up." 
MIKE FRAWLEY, College of Arts and Letters 
"My old man. He put me through school. He knows what tbe real world is like." 
idea in an absurd-sounding way, this sides are tired of fighting. Hopefully threat should not be taken lightly. we wlll not be one of those sides. Call it banana-republic politics if you wish, but the invasion of some tiny Special thanks to Professor Ken . islands by an incompetant and very jameson and Micheal Francis for desperate government could spell a their invaluable belp. very real disaster for human peace. 
The United States is trying to take an active and impartial role in this affair. To be frank, nothing ofany sig­nificance has been accomplished. Most confrontations are settled when they first start or when both 

DearEditor: 
Editor-In-chief Mike Monk's 

editorial of April 1, "In Defense of 
Hesburgh." contained many inac­
curate statements and Innuendoes. 
Referring to the March 24 demonstration protesting Hes­burgh's trip to El Salvador, Monk portrays the protestors as a group of "narrow-minded Idealists." be­cause ofthe nature of their chants and an interview with one demonstrator. Monk Infers that chants such as "30,000 dead-no more -U.S. out of El Salvador" possessed asimplistic view which fOrced sharply-defined, but absurd, conclusions about the strife in El Salvador, specifically that the ces­sation ofU.S. involvement in El Sal­vador would "miraculously end the hostilities" there. 
Monk fails to understand the sig­nificance of posters and slogans. They were of necessity simplistic. No one could hope to cram a legitimate position into a short chant oronto a piece ofcardboard. Slogans and posters are attention­getters, as is a demonstration. Our position was essentially no dif­ferent than that presented in the letter of the El Salvador Solidarity Group, which Monk terms a "more credible" protest. 
Monk insinuates that the entire group of protestors consisted of members of the Democratic Socialists ofAmerica, but proceeds to base his criticisms of the group on an interview with a student 
who has no connections with the 
D.S.A We agree that 25 students have no business claiming to speak for the N.D./S.M.C. community. 
D.S.A. simply organized the demonstration. 
We respect Fr. Hesburgh's record on · human rights, but despite his obvious sincerity, we feel that Fr. Hesburgh was simply wrong about this issue, and we felt a responsibility to make our opinion known to both the campus and the South Bend community. 
The new Salvadorean govern· ment will be led by a coalition of right-wing parties, the strongest that of d'Aubuisson. To . believe that negotiations to end the strife will proceed better now that "one party acting out ofstrength will be: able to coordinate and oversee the negotiations," is extremely naive. 
Monk claimed that It was "fallacious and irresponsible" to believe that negotiations should have preceded the elections. But these so-called "fallacious and ir­responsible'' beliefs are held by more than 25 "narrow-minded idealists." Even the Chicago 
• Trib.une, a paper hardly.known for its leftist leanings, stated In a recent editorial: "As should have been obvious from the start, the election solved nothing; It has probably made things worse. 
D.S.A. ofNotre Dame 

Night life atND 
DearEditor: 
Is there something special, 1 wonder, about night life at Notre Dame, that accounts for a feverish burst of activity while the rest of the world slumbers ? 
Last semester, I lived next door to someone who slept all day but rose about 11:30 p.m. to start typing what seemed like a 600· page paper. With the onset ofwin­ter, we had snowploughs out at 4 
a.m. turning easily negotiable snow into lethal ice rinks. Just for good measure, there's always the dance of the Seven Toothless Vir­gins from St. Ed's, somewhere be­
tween 11:30 pili. and 2:00 am., 
depending on the phases of the moon. Now we have the latest toy from the Notre Dame road sweep­ing department: a four-wheeled dragon that makes a noise like a fleet of distressed Hoovers and Is launched nightly around 1:30 a.m.. Some even say that this dust belch­ing spectre is navvigated by a head·. less driver. If this is true, then it may account for the totally irra­tional concept of driving a large machine around Campus In ever 
decreasing circles at such an un­godly hour! 
A reluctant insomniac, ].C. Nuttall 


Editorial Board De~ent~geB 
Th~ Obr~rver is an independent newspaper published by the students o( the 
l!llittlr·ill·l.'bi~f..............................Mk:hacl Monk Husln~ss Mtmtrxer .............................Tony Aiello 
Univcr~ity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not nt.nssarily 
Mtmll~ill~ litlitor................Ry;m Vc:r Rcrkmoc:s Co11tmller.............................................Eric: Schulz
rdlect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report­
liXt'f.'lltil'l' Neu>s liclilor.........................Kc:lli Flint Adr'l'rt isin/( Manaxer.......................Chris Owen
ed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of 
.liM(.' Nt•u>s litlitor.....................Mary_;Jrct Fosmoc: Pmclut'llon Mtmaxer..................Maura Murphy 
a majority of the Editorial Board. Co.nmentaries, opinions and letters are the views 
SJNirts f:tlilor..................... .............Chri.'i Nc:c:dlc:s Circlllullon M11naxer ..........................Ray lnglin . 
of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the conununity, and 
litlilorillls f:ditor .............................Paul Mc:<iinn .\)•stems Mm111xer ...........................8ruce Oakley
the frce expression of varying opinions on campus, tb.cousb lctkrs, i1 cncourSf~Cd. 
f'etllurrs f:tlilor ...................................Tari 8rown Photo f:tlitor...................................Rae:he:I 81ount Founded November 3, 1966 
P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46SS6 (~19) 239-S303 

~Stt0 W C fiS E 
Friday, April16, 1982-page 8 
Dancing vitalizes
As rehearsals wind down ... 
atime-worn heart 
Meine Damen und Herren -Jones, thrust his shoulder forward. The costume director Margie 
Mesdames etMessieurs ­
Ladies and Gentlemen -

Guten abend -Bon soir -Good evening! 
So -life is disappointing? 

Forget it!In here life is beauti­ful ... 
D
uring the early rehearsals, in the . process ofblocking, teaching the choreography, and developing the characters, Mousseau stressed the consistent portrayal ofthe con­cepts. All cast members, even those with no lines, in developing this con­sistency, created character sketches for their roles. Jones describes this process as "getting to now my character by determining what kind ofdialect she would use, where she was from, what she was doing in the setting ofthe play at the time, even small details like what she might have for breakfast." 
LaannDuczstczrbczrg 
features 
Mousseau would use a variety of techniques to help the cast get to know their characters. At one re­hearsal for Kelly and Jones, during a particularly intense scene between Cliffand Sally, Mousseau interrupted the action by firing questions at Sal­ly: 
"How are you feeling now, Sal­ly?" 

"I'm confused," replied jones sustaining the character ofSally, struggling to express her charac­ter's emotions. "It's all so ugly. I want to go back to the club where I'm desperately needed to sing." 
"So what are you going to do? Are you going to give it up because you can't cope with reality?" 
"How are you feeling now, Sal­ly?" Mousseau demanded again. Then he requested that they do the scene once more. It was stronger this time, more intense. 
Another way to develop sincere emotion on stage is to learn to respond to the signals conveyed by the body motions and voice in­tonations ofthe other characters. For this, Mousseau employed a warm-up exercise. 
"OK, pass energy," Mousseau in­structed. Kelly, standing opposite Jones sucked in her stomach as if 
·sh'd been hit with asoccer ball and rolled it out again as if to pass the ball back. Kelly caught it on his knee, let it slide down his leg, and 
kicked it off his toe. 

"Put it in words,"Mousseau in­structed. "Help," pleadedJones throwing out her arms for assis­tance. Kelly cringed backward as if to reject the plea and tossed his head towards herwith the retort,"I 
won't." 

"Warm-up exercises are very useful in loosening up the actors and forcing them to be creative." Mousseau explained. Some are also just plain fun. One day, while doing dance warm-ups to the beat ofa popular tune, Mousseau instructed five people to dance like monkeys, five more like teenie-boppers, five more with one hand on the floor. The resulting wild gyrations soon had everyone in hysterics. 
For a show like Cabaret, set in Europe, it was not enough that the cast members memorize their linesand add emotions, they had to 
.develop accents as well. Doon Wintz playing Ernst Ludwig and Bridget Dolan playing Fraulein Schneider became the resident ex­perts on the German accents. Raul Aportela as Herr Schultz developed aJewish or Yiddish ac­cent,Jone as Sally, a British one, and Kelly, as Cliff, an American one. Gabriele as the MC, spoke French, German, and English. 
Two weeks before opening night, rehearsals were moved to the "real stage" in Washington Hall. The full orchestra now joined the piano player Ann Berners, who had soloed for the past six weeks at all the music rehearsals. Orchestra director Bob O'Donnell, under the instruction ofMousseau, Famker, and Quinn, began to coordinate the beat, timing, and pace ofthe new instruments to the vocals and dances. "That is not an easy task," asserted Quinn. "And Bob is won­derfully patient in adapting to our needs." 
Actors also had to adjust to the stage sets. It is very hard, for in­stance, to deliver a line while trying to leap gracefully off a four­foot platform that still lacked the stairs. 
,Fink also attended these rehear­sals, her arms laden with costumes for various players to try on. She 
carried with her a stack ofindex cards to reference each member of the cast, their measurements, com­plexion type, and charactersketch. Most of the girls' costumes Fink had sewn herself; the others, she pulled from stock at the SMC theater department or costume shops in town. 
One ofthe last rehearsals, offi­cially called the "tech rehearsal" allowed Mousseau and Tim Nolan, the technical director, to set the lights. Said Nolan, "We add gels­colored plastic -to create a mood and cue the actors when certain spotlights will be on them." Usual­ly, after the whole show has been run through once, the choreog­rapher, vocal director, and direc­torwill go through their "notes" ­criticisms they observed during the performance rehearsal. "Sometimes notes can be rough," admitted Tricia Bjork, one of the Cabaret girls. "Once all the girls in the kick line had to sing·and dance their part alone in fromt ofthe whole cast. It was pretty scary, but it helped. We really improved." 
Slowly, slowly all the parts begin to blend into the whole. 
"Sure it's kind ofscary to have an audience out there," admitted Mike Kelly. "Especially with a show like Cabaret which swings from very serious to very light­hearted. You hope the audience will catch the mood change." 
"As a director, I feel that every action on stage is a reflection of myself, my interpretations, my concept," said Mousseau."l put myselfon the line every time the show is performed... 
"But," added Ramker, "every smile from the audience makes the exposure worthwhile." 
Opening night. The making of Cabaret is complete. The stage lights will go on, the cast will take their places on stage, and the mas­ter ofceremonies will appear. One story will end and another one will begin. 
"Wilkommen, Bienvenue, Welcome ... In Cabaret, Au Cabaret, To Cabaret." 

Thanks andno thanks 
T
here are a lot ofseniors on the Observer staffwho will soon be writing their "farewell" columns. I thought I'd get the jump on them and say some things that I've always wanted to say, but, for assorted reasons, never have. 

Paul Kosidowski 
second thoughts 
To the dining balls -I don't ap­preciate all those onions in my soup. Ifyou have a lot ofleftover onions, put them in someone else's soup, not mine. I really like your chicken cutlets and your stuffed peppers. I think your coffee is the worst I've ever tasted; try and work on that. 
To all the helpfulpeople ru whomI've never said, "Thank you.., 
-Thank you. 

To anyone who bas ever said "Only in South Bend'" -There are reports that phenomena such as 
snow (even in April), rain, power blackouts and crime have appeared in other parts ofthe United States. I have more or less enjoyed the five years I have spent here and I know lots ofpeople who share my feelings. I am convinced that you will be saying things like "only in Kansas City, only in Harrisburg," and "only in Carson City" for the rest ofyour living days. And I am glad that you will not be saying them to me. 
To anyone who bas ever said "Only atNotre Dame" -See above. 
To Gertrude the duck -I have been nice to you for five years by bringing you bread on a somewhat regular basis. I hope you will return the favor by keeping you and your winged comrades away from my car. 
To-the professor who flunked me sophomoreyear -Thanks, I needed that. 
To the priests and educators OJ Notre Dame-You have' made it possible for my life to be fuller, ric­her and happier. I'm sorry that I never told you that in person, but I thought you'd like to know just the same. 
To whom it may concern -I hope that, whereveryou go, you can take kegs with you. It will be nice to know that your lives will be fuller, richer and happier, too. 
To anyone who bas ever used the "words" mega, like, hyper, mellow, big guy, intense, ory'know to excess 
-Speak into a tape recorder for 20 
minutes and then listen to what 

we've had to suffer through for the 
past years. 

To Frs. Van Wolvlear,joyce, Res­burgh and Mr. Roemer -Keep up the good work. From what I can see you've all been pretty successful in making the University a good place to be. And I know you'll keep trying to make it better. We want it to be a good place too, but sometimes we get a little too excited when making our suggestions. I hope we have at least one future university president or dean in our class and that one of you will still be alive to hear him or her say, "Hey, this isn't as easy as I thought it would be." Oh, by the way, thanks for the education; I think it will come in handy. 
N
o woman should marry a man unless he can dance." "Why do people try to cover up their hearts? My tears come from the space in my heart that no one can fill." "When my husband was alive we never had a telephone , we had each other." "Young people can't appreciate the fact that it takes me an after­noon to bake a cake. They just buy a mix." "I felt the pain as if it were my own." "No woman should marry a man unless he can dance." 
Liz finn Wczlly 
features 

Although I received so may precious fragments and colorful threads from the tapestries ofmemoryJosephine unravelled, it is the empty space she created in her heart for me that I will always remember. The present she made of herselfto me far outweighed the gifts ofher words. 
She sure could dance, that lady. Although many ofher natural rythms had been silenced by time and she had lost herpartner of66 years, she had not lost her step. She patiently coaxed me to try on her dancing slippers. 
She stepped on my heart that very first afternoon. I was so worried about my performance that I hid my weeping from her when she tearfully told me about that first waltz she danced with her husband. "My husband was a great dancer." Surely one didn't cry on opening night. Josephine cradleq my sorrow in her words "your heart is too young to be broken by an old woman like me." Her own tears had made mine understandable. She was comfortable with the empty space from which they came. 
Boywas I a clumsydancer. I kept trippingoverall my words. I was tryingso hard to choreograph ourfriendship, to avoid a wrong step, that I found it difficult to move. So I began to take my cues from Josephine. She always gave. Onedaywhen Igot to the nursing home she was selling gumdrops, gumdrops for hugs. Funny, she provided both the sweets. She was always trying to stuffsomething in my pockets with her gentle push ... 2 holy cards, an oatmeal cookie, 
· even a can ofred soda She wanted me to bake a cake. She couldn't imagine making a cake without having someone there to share the beaters or to scrape the bowl with. 
There were days when she thought all she could give me was a weak smile. She answered my questions with a faint pressing ofher hand in mine. I'll never forget how small I thought her world had become. Home had come to mean something as simple as being wrapped in her old familiar blue blanket. The faded and tattered remnant was as worn and tired as the lap it covered. But I found her greatest possessions in those impoverished circumstances. She was unafraid to admit to me that hei: heart was cracked and broken. She had drunk deeply at the well ofsorrowand was unafraid ofitswaters. She offered me a cool drink. 
I was equallyas amazed at her ability to ask me to do things for her. Shewas not embarrassed about weaknesses. She asked me to smooth her cracked and dry skin with vaseline she always kept by her bedside. I was afraid my touch might by too rough but I tried to sof­ten her wrinkled flesh. IfI could have mended that broken heart of hers with vaseline I would have tried. I wanted so badly to salve the bruises time had inflicted onJosephine. But those wounds ofloneli­ness and ofage had become forJosephine an anchor for identity and a source ofgreat beauty. Her loss, her "empty space" invited her to be compassionate toward all those who bear witness to her gently touch. I was learning to dance by becom4flg a partner. 
When I was small and read fairy tales I used to let down my hair with Rapunzel and ask,"who is the fairest ofthem all" along with the witch who was jealous ofSnow White. When reading, I sawwith new eyes and heard with new ears and yet I was never more myself. Much the same sortofthing happens to mewhen I visit)osephine. I try on the garments ofthe elderly and yet I learn much about my own naked interiors. Because ofJosephine's fading visual acuity, I ap­preciate more keenly the bright colors of the gumdrops in the glass jar by her dust-streaked window. 
I hear the slow and laborious breaths she takes with heightened sensitivity. The dance Ishare withJosephine is born from the two of us-but its fin~ configuration is greater and bigger than the bothof us. 
My relationship withjosephine can be compared to looking into a mirror. The glass is cracked and in some places itis broken but it is a wonderful, if imperfect, image. Josephine compels me to peer into the broken state ofbeing all men must reside in because the image she has ofherselfhas been reduced to these conditions. She can no longer derive her selfrec;ognition from her roles as a wife or mother. She has lost her partner of66 years. Her lap will no longer hold children. Her fingers serve herwhen whe wants to write. Her vision is obscured by aging eyes. But the beauty of the love ofthe human heart shines through the time worn shell that encases it. She is Josephine, an old woman. And I am Lizann, a young woman growing old. I hope I can dance when I am 87. 
This article was written by LizAnn Welly who is currently en­rolled in Theology and Community Service, a course designed to develop a comprehensive understanding and articulation ofthe dynamics ofcaring and compassion andaginganddying through a relationsbiop with an elderly person. 
Two other courses betng offerea next semester are The Church and Socialjustice and Reflections on Service. For information on these three courses contact the Center for Experiential Learning, JlJO.MemorialLibrary,phone 5319. 
The Observer Feature·s Section 
Friday, April 16, 1982 -page 9 
When you think of it 
v.
sitors from out of town, a young married couple named Paul and Laura with two young children, told me of friends of theirs, both Catholics, who had been married in a protestant church recently, because their parish priest had declined to do the service. 

Rev. ~obert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonelv God 
"Why was the priest unwilling to give them a Cath­olic wedding?" I asked. I knew there had to be a reason. Priests are in the business of blessing marriages; but they have to do it discriminately, according to the laws ofthe Church. "Because they wouldn't promise to have children," Paul said. "They both have good careers started. They're not sure, if their careers are successful, that they want to interrupt their lives to have a family." "It doesn't seem fair of the priest," said Laura, in the tones young women use when they get exasperated with the clergy. "I definitely believe in havingchildren, but! don't think the priest has a right to tell them they must have children. I don't think it's any ofthe priest's business." 
"My dear," I said, "I would have told them the same thing." Both ofthem were shocked by this admission, because they consider me a pretty laid-back fellow. 
"You mean," Paul said, "you'd let them go off, and be married in a protestant church, and lose their Catholic faith for the rest of their lives." 
"I hardly think their Catholic lives are over,"! said. "I would prefer to see them married as Catholics, accord­ing to the Catholic form of marriage; receiving the sacraments and the Church's blessing on their union. The Church has a respectful and loving regard for other traditions of marriage, but a priest would always prefer that Catholics do it in the Catholic way." 
"I suppose the Catholic way means forcing them to have children?", Laura said bitterly."Couples are having a lot of trouble accepting the Church's attitude." 
"I know about the problems,"! said. "Youngcouples, in their marriages, plan their families in the best way they can, I would hope, and no on can interfere with that. But ifa couple, making plans, say to a priest: 'There's no way we'll ever have kids,' the priest has to say:' I don't think you understand what the Church means by the tradition ofChristian marriage.' " 
"Barefoot in the the winter, pregnant in the summer," said Laura, with a half-impish grin. Behind the grin, I think, she has some dark image of the Church as a con­spiracy of Italian chauvinists, plotting laws to keep women pregnant all the days oftheir lives, from the bridal veil until menopause. 
"Maybe," said Paul, "it's more Christian not to have kids that you really don't want, than to have a bunch of them running around that you can't take care of" 
"People getting married have to sort out the priorities and values they will be working for," I said. "They shouldn't be surprised ifthe Church insists on_ some values ofits own." 
"The Church imposes on personal freedom" Laura said. "The Church has no business intruding on the 
privacy ofthe bedroom." I could imagine a churchman, 
an ecclesiastical voyeur, peeping out ofa 
bedroomcloset, trying to see what was happening in the 
darkness. 

"Honey,"! said, "we're talking about lovers who want 
to stand before the altar and make freely exchanged 
vows. The Church says: ifyou want to do it before a 
Catholic altar, then you must be thoughtful about the 
promises you are making. You must intend to be faithful 
to each other, without reservations and without any 
thought that you can excuse yourself later from your 
commitment, because the other has gotten old, or sick, 
or tired, and love is no longer exciting. You must work 
hard to extend your mutual loyalty until death takes 
one ofyou. Nothing in married life is necessarily easy; if· 
you consent to do it, you must do it as sincerely as you 
can, believing that God is on your side. Eventually ­
not necessarily now, or next month, or next year, but at 
least someday -you wll be expected to invite 
children, ifGod wishes, and human circumstances, like 
health, permit, to bless your home, and strengthen your 
bond ofaffection." 

"What ifyou don't want chidren?" Paul asked, "like 
my friends who don't know ifthey ever want to have 
children." 

"lflwere the priest," I said, "I would talk with them as 
patiently as I could, to see ifwe could reach a minimum 
agreement fulfilling the requirements ofcanon law. If 
they refuse to say that their marriage is open to the pos­
sibility ofoffspring -the possibility, mind you; no one 
can say on their wedding day ifthey'll have a family, 
since God makes no promisesoffertility when the mar­
riage contract is signed -I would send them to talk to 
another priest. I can't help them, but perhaps he can. 
Laura started giggling as I talked. She had tangible 
evidence, when she got married, ofbecoming a mother. 
No priest had needed to ask her ifshe would accept 
children lovingly from God. 
"What ifyou lie to the priest, agreeing to have a fami­
ly, when you know you won't?" Paul asked. 
"I hope people wouldn't lie," I said. "They hurt them­selves, when they are dishonest about serious matters." "It sounds pretty narrow-minded to me," he said. "Probably," I said cheerfully, "But when you think of 
it, it's all human fulfilling: to be faithful in love; to want to make an enduring promise; to want your love to be incarnate in family life. Childless couples can look very rich and lonely, because they've been too selfish or am­bitious to use their love in a creative human way." 
"You have no right to say a woman is selfish or am­bitious for not having kids," Laura said defensively, as one who knew how demanding family life can be. "You sound just like a priest." 
"Thankyou," I said. "I deserved that." "So you think it was okay for my friends to get married as protestants?" Paul asked. 
"Maybe they didn't have a choice," I said. "They were honest, and acted according to their consciences. Anyway, they're still Catholics." 
"Sometimes," Laura said impulsively,"I hate the Cath­olic Church." An hour later, she went to Mass, and received Communion. Someday, I must ask her what it is she thinks she's hating, when she says she hates the Catholic Church. 
Pictures on ''Exhibition Sunday' ' 
'"T1he Snite Museum was ded­
1 icated In November of 1980. 
Since that time many students have 
come through the art museum's 
doors. either because they were in 
Professor Leader's Art Trads course, 
or they came to see one of the films 
or concerts, or one of their courses 
Angela Adamson 
art 

required it. A few students, though far too few, have come simply to wander through and look at the art. The reason for the lack ofstudents wandering through is compound. First, the security guard will not al­low you to hang onto your backpack as you go through. Second, most stu­dents at this University do not have enough familiarity with art to really appreciate the finer points of museum browsing. Finally, the Snite Museum ofArt does not have ex­hibits, lectures, and events that would be interesting to the average student. 
Hopefully the situation is about to change. For security reasons back­packs will continue to be banned from the galleries. But Dr. Porter, director ofthe museum is planning on instituting evening hours on a tri­al basis. Next fall, gallery guides will be available in each of the Snite's nine galleries. These guides will have photographs and descriptive material on selected art objects. And the museum plans to institute a seriesofevents ofparticular interest to students. Astudent gallery com­mittee has been formed in order to conceive and plan these events, and act in advisory capacity for the museum. 
The firstsuch event that the stu­dents have planned is "Exhibition Sunday." Scheduled to take place from 1 to 4p.m. onSunday, April 18, "Exhibition Sunday" promises to be an interestingafternoon ofactivities. Two opening receptions will be held at that time: for the annual stu­dent exhibition, and for the 
"Ambrose Richardson, Retrospective Works" exhibit. The student show will focus on the works of 17 Master ofFine Arts can­didates. As the show is part oftheir degree requirement, the works will be representative of the artists' emerging identities as they have worked towards the M.F.A. The ar­tists will be on hand. Ambrose Ric­hardson, F.A.I.A., is a former chairman ofthe Department ofAr­chitecture, and is also the Snite Museum's architect. The exhibit is composed ofa representative selec­tion ofprofessional works, architec­tural designs and proposals, watercolors and drawings. 
"Exhibition Sunday" provides the student with an excellent oppur­tunity to visit the museum and enjoy the experience. Go see the multimil­lion dollar investment in the arts at Notre Dame which houses a fine col­lection ofover 12,000 art objects. Or just go and have a nice time being "cultured." More infomation on "Exhibition Sunday" is available by calling the museum, 239-5466. 

-•THEATRE 
"Come to the Cabaret!" Tickets have been on sale for this 
weekend's production ofCabaret since April 5 but you may still be 
able to acquire a remaining one. Jeff Mousseau's spirited cast and 
crewswill be singing and dancing on the Washington Hall stage 
tonight and tomorrow night at 8 p.m. and Sunday at 2 p.m. Cabaret 
comes highly recommended due to two things: Student Players 
remarkable record for producing quality musicals and Mousseau's 
singular talent for infusing a show such as this with an explosive 
energy. 

The alternative theatre experience opening this weekend and 
continuing, Thursday through Saturday until May l, is at the 
Firehouse Theatre at 70 I Portage Ave. The South Bend Civic Theatre 
will raise the curtain on Neil Simon'sPrisoner ofSecond Avenue at 
8:30p.m. Ifyou're a Simon fan but you''re counting your pennies, 
they will give students a discount on Thursday performances. Call 
233-0683 after 6 p.m. or 234-5696 for reservations. 
•MUSIC 

The strains of music will be echoing from various points on 
campus, ranging from the sounds of Loverboy at the ACC to Dan 
Peek to a concert ofthe music ofMarc-Antonio Consoli. Peek may be 
familiar to some because ofhis former association withAmerica. 
Saturday in Stepan Center at 8 p.m., Petra will open the evening and 
from there, lay back and enjoy the musical talents ofPeek as he con­
tinues in the country-rock fusion which madeAmerica famous. 
At Saint Mary's in Moreau Hall's Little Theatre at 8 p.m., students 
and faculty wil present the music of Marc-Antonio Consoli. A com­
poserofexperimental and new music, Consoli has been workingon 
a stage composition based on a motive after Eugene O'Neill. For a 
festive evening, enjoy the free sounds of this concert. 
Ifmom and dad were asking how you've been spending your 
weekends and the best you could do was bite your lip and tell them 
··,
you watchedMasterpiece Theatre last week, try the opera. Don't 
panic! The Theatre Company at IUSB offers a production of 
Beaumarchais', The Marriage ofFigaro, Aprill6, 17, 23 and 24 at 
8:15 p.m. and April 25 at 2:15 p.m. Don't let the fact that you don't understand the words scare you. It's secondary. This opera is a clas­sic and a good one to see ifits your first experience. Brave your fears and call 237-4396 for reservations. •ART 
To those ofus accustomed to the conventional style ofpainting 
and sculpture, a tour through Saint Mary's halls will reveal many new 
and innovative artists who are presently exploring the medium. 
Margo Hoff's showing culminates this experience. Hoff's works will 
be displayed in Moreau Gallery from A"pril I 7 to 30. By attending the 
opening reception Saturday between 7 and 9 p.m. you might have 
the opportunity to speak with the artist herself. 
•DANCE 

En pointe at the Morris Civic, Southold Dance Theatre welcomes the talents offive guest artists, among them Ellen Costanza, leading soloist with the Cleveland Ballet, to their production ofSleeping Beauty. This production has special significance for the ND/SMC community because students and faculty from both campuses will be participating in it, some as dancers and others as administrators. Tickets for Saturday's 8 p.m. performance are S4 and S7 but Sunday's 2 p.m. matinee will only cost half-price. Drift off into fairy land for a few hours. We all need it these days. •NAZZ 
Saturday, 9-11 p.m. grab your section-mates and pseudo-section­mates and listen to the band Tremor, one of the winners in the Nazz Music Competition. 
•MOVIES 

As always, the cinema screen will be kept busy. At Chatauqua Friday and Saturday, 8,10 and 12 p.m., the rock musical Tommy will be showing. Ifyou haven't seen the movie before, you have heard El­tonjohn orThe Who on the radio. The film must be seen ifyou want to get the total experience ofthe music. 
Blue eyes and Blondie. Some people hoped for a Beatles reunion. Most women I know hope for a Newman-Redford reunion. Since that isn't forthcoming, see the next best thing, TbeSttng at the Engineer­ing Auditorium, 7, 9:15 and 11 :30.Friday. 
A revival ofClousseau is as immanent as the above reunion. Being There shows PeterSellers in one ofhis finest roles outside ofthe Pink Panther series. Trek over to Carroll Hall, SMC, 7 and 9:30 Saturday and watch the gentleman's gentleman make his way in the world. 
•LOOKOUT How many of the choral groups on campus can you name? Glee Club ...maybe the Chapel Choir ifyou regularly go to 
10:30 mass. Chorale, one ofthe remaining mysterious five music groups, will be giving their spring concert Monday, April 19 at 8:15 in Washington Hall. 
Abiogenesis Dance Collective will be presenting their springcon­cert on Wednesday, April 21 at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. I remem­ber when the dance collective was just a gleam in Angie Adamson's eye. I would highly recommend seeing the culmination ofa semes­ter's work and three years dreams. 
"They make listening a sensual as well as aural or intellectual ex­perience for the audience. They make you listen with your body as well as your ears." The Primavera String Quartet will perform ( Thursday, April22 at 8 p.m. in Moreau Hall's Uttk Theatre at Saint Mary's. Ofparticular interest Is the fact that this group is one ofthe few all-women professsional ensembles in the country. 
~. 
~~()rts=/=l=r=·J=·e;~~~=============================Fr=id=~='~A~=ru=I=6=,1=9=s2===pa=~=I==o
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
The second roundofinnertube waterpolo continues today. At 4 p.m., the "Fighting Piranhas 1001" face the "Aquanuts." At 4:40 p.m., "Wayne Williams and the Sambo Slayers" take on "Walsh Water Wombats." The 5:20p.m. game features "Pookcepsie" and "HaywoodJablomi." In yesterday's action, the "Lust Bombs" was declared the winner by forfeit over the "Sperm Wales," the "Chlorinated Water Otters" defeated "The Tippers," 13-7, and "The Pack Is Back" defeated "Waterproof Pierogies," 22-5. -The Ob­server 
Volleyball at its finestwill be played at Saint Mary's Angela Athletic Facility tomorrow as SMC hosts the U.S. Volleyball Association regional championships. Twenty-one men's and women's teams from Indiana and Michigan will vie for the cham­pionship ofthe two-state region. The SMC Blue Wave and the Notre Dame Outlaws women's teams will compete. The action begins at 
9:15 am. The playoffs start at 2:15p.m. and the championship will be at 3:15. -The Observer 
Two doubleheaders are on tap for the Notre Dame baseball team this weekend. The Irish travel to DePauw tomorrow and to Indiana State on Sunday. -The Observer 
An Tostal's ping:..pong tournament pairings have been posted outside the student government offices on the second floor ofLaFortune. Competetion begins this Sunday, April IS. -The Observer 
Indiana Intercollegiate Track Cham­pionships will take place tomorrow on Cartier Field begin­ning at noon. -The Observer 
Notre Dame'smen's and women's tennis teams will be in action this weekend. The women face Northern Illinois in Kalamazoo, Mich. today and Western Michigan and Kent State on Sunday. The men take a 15-6 record to Ann Arbor to face Michigan tomorrow following yesterday's 9-0 triumph over Valparaiso. The men take on Eastern Michigan on Sunday. -The Observer 
Irish lacrosse team travels to Kenyon College in Ohio tomorrow. -The Observer 

SECOND ROUND GAMES Yesterday's Results 
Stepan 1 
Kamikazes over Five Easy Pieces by 14 

Big Organ and the Bouncing Balls over Fast Eddie and the Early. Squirts by 10 Assassins over Unidentified Flying Penguin Trot· tersby 11 
T.B. Express II over McNamara's Band by 2 
Stepan2 Beer Bongs over We're Short But Slow by 6 Mitch's and Rich's Sons of B ... over The Blowofts 
by12 ­We're Playing tor a Michelob Light over Grab Your Anklesby3 stepan3 Sam Gilbert's Coathanger Kids over Recycled Backboard Trash by 13 
R. Cranium over Bob and Doug and Three of their Favorites by 16 2-C Losers over Captain Supply Side and the Kool Aid Kids by 7 
Ryan's Hopes over Oscar Mayer and Bagel Abusers by 15 
StepM14 

14th Street Aircraft Carriers over Digger's NIT Bids by6 Eilleen O'Reilly Lifers over Duck Wi!Hams and the Dalton Gang by 2 Sons of Pele over General Murphy and his Con· federates by 2 Five Unchaste College Kids over Club Special by 13 
See BOOKSTORE, page 13 
The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day. through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However, classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid, 
either in person or through the mail. 
Classifieds 
,.,.., .-~~·~··,. 

. .......-.,..--......­
suMMER SUBLEnCi~s wANTED! FOR SALE MED.Size FRIDGE 191NCH See the' TAN MASTERS lf8b ~ Watch out for Mike. Mike who? No, Mike Julie, Thanks for coming horne this Comlortable.tullytumiShed.2bdnnaptln B&W TV CAll 1494 or 1538 MIKE 01 8ooUtore victory on Friday lit5:15 an What Mike what? Yeah. What's his last weekend.l missed you unbearably. Tigger 
I l

NOTICES 
Hickory ViUage. If interested call Carol or BOB Lyone12. Ttwlr tan8nwy 118 f8dlng, bul too. Please stay.Love,Ed(NA) 
name? Right. Look out ladies. What'll be 
Michele at 272-9603. .. ........................................... , .............. , .. their llll8nt l811'tl 
kissing you.
HAIRCUTS! ONLV $4 FOR GUYS AND 

Maisie, $6 FOR GIRLS·· LOT OF EXPERIENCE 3-4 bedroom, 3 blocks !rom campus. Mr. JIMMY THE GREEK PREDICTS A ,;;;;·~j;:;;~~·k;;·;;;;;·~-i~·p.:;b,i;h';;;~ Ves. you Oral From good ole Hartley 
··.-·······~·········"'················-······· ..··.........~··· 
IN STYLING, ROTC AND PERSONALLY 

Noe. 287-9636 or 289-2028. Summer or REGIS EUGENE AWSON VICTORY IN 
schedule. High to St Chuckles Summer The;llerDESIGNED CUTS FOR YOUR FACE fall. 
.I TICKETS A LAHDSUDEI GURDAK, MUSAMECI· and now Washington Hall • You've come AND HAIR. CALL MICHOLE AT 7951 
YOU DON'T HAVE A CHANCEl quile a way. I just wanted to wish you the 
...........,.................................................. 

PLEDGE YOUR VOTE NOW • REGIS n. uniiMI N.uon.. 1n CG~Junctlon best of luck this weekend, as doeS 
FREE FACIAL! Natural Skin Cant My family laughed when I tOld them that I fORUIIOCI with 131 ~Hell t.v.lleeigniDcl everyone at St. Charles. (especially Program. Jalra Cosmectics Penny Pen· WANTED was FINALLY graduating! In fact they tt11a -.k• Fugly ,.,_Wwk. Thla FRED! heh,heh,heh!) I know it'll be a 
I t 
' rOd 291-8310. . L.-_________.....,.._,_ won't belitlve it unless they see it. So I .,_... ptUident I• R8gl• Eugene Al-
great show! Break a leg!!need extra graduation tickets. Call 1023 BEWARE PRE-MED THROATS 118on, w11o Ia MC1 running tor UGLY COMPUTER TYPING of papers. dis­and as1c lor Charlie . 
......,.....~--·-··· ....····················--·····-Thfl guy(?) with a4-plnt and • pube-h8ir­MAN OH CAMPUS. f'ledOe yoUr Wile 
sertations, books. H you musl revise. we TYPING 28 years as a sacretary-­hHd is out to. shoot you down (or shoot for Regl8 .-.Lilthimfl.-you o.et save you time anid ll'lOOfy. Beautiful excetlent typist. retired. $1.00/page call ,:iie'oor.MoN"iiY:.siii:i:.t:iE".voii'ii·ex~ )'011 off/) watch out/1/ WMB Ia elter yout ­
........................ -······················-~---········· 
JIM BRENNAN Happy 23rd Birthday!finished work. 233-9900. Pl!yiDs 259-2501. TRA GRAD TICKETS!ll CALL BRIAN INtlubllllllll/1111 . . ·•h········ Love' Your friends in LeMans 
·······-·····-············· :~~--·~····..··········-······ 
.. .......................~ .......................... X1928 . 
...............................................~ ...'.............'. He IUIIy wn•lt-Ragle Eugene Al­
Experienced typist will do typing. Call HELP, I CAN'T SWIM, SO I NEED A llecm tor UGUEST MAN ON CAMPUSI
ATTENTION FRESHMEN; APPUCA­Jimmy­
~~jj;;''~i;;d~~i~··i:·i;;;Pk>;~··;~·~;··;;~ii'i
287·5182. Goodsptd!Jf. RIDE TO FT. WAYNE ON APRIL 18 OR TIONS FOR SOPHOMORE COMMIT· Plldgl your vote ""'"' Thanks so much tor helping me thnxlgh 17 TO SPEND EASTER WITH CAST­need graduation tiCkets. Cali brew 8922 
TEE CHAIRMAN POSITIONS FOR THE my lour years herel What a brOther! Hap­'82·'83 YEAR
POeT RICHARD TlLUNGHAST -AWAY FAMILY. IF YOU CAN OFFER immediately. SCHOOL ARE TH~·;.:ACE"·:rtiAT"'wiL:L"FiEiiiNo·vau py Birthday I WED. APRIL 21 -7:30 P.M. IN AID, CALL PEG AT 1274. ........................... OF THE SOUTH END OF A NORTH
AVAILABLE IN THE Stucl8nt Acllvlt... 
Love•
STAPLETON LOUNGE, SAINT I NEED TWO OR THREE TIX FOR KEN· Otllce. APPUCATIONS ARE BEING BOUND DONKEY! REGIS EUGENE AI.· 
Bee MARY'S. BE THERE! Professor requires part-time typist who NV ROGERS. (ON MAIN FLOOR IF ACCEPTED FOR Tltl FOLLOW. lNG USON, Lk.L pudgy lap, tugly,ohube, ....................... ..................... . 
has access to Commodore CBM MOdel POSSIBLE) PLEASE CALL JOHN x3175 COMMITTEES: LITURGICAL • tor UGUEST MAN ON CAMPUSI ....... FOR TYPING CALL 288-5855 8032 System. Send specifics to PO Box fOREIGN STUDIES • SOCIAL .......................~........~ ......~ ... Signups for lltE AN TOSTAI. OATING 77, Notre Dame, IN 46556. Will exchange BEER or$ for 1 graduation NEWSLETTER • PU8UCITY • SOCI£. .... ............ .. ........... . GAME Sun. April 18, 6prn. LaFortune 
ticket. Laura 6816. TAL CONCERNS SPORTS AND Who IN -? Why .,. -here? And Ballroom. Call2725 or 78921rir info. I need a ride to Western Michigan or K'zoo RECREATION ALL COMPLETED AP­what Ia the ...w1et1on In thl• area. Can leave anytime fri-or Sat. Call · PUCATlONS MUST BE RETURNED TO panonomle vl81on-all hew? One should have a Card Index 
' (. LOST/FOUND l 

Timo, 1782. THE student Activltle8 Olllce by TUES. These questions and more will be ······· DAY, APRIL 20, 11182. answered by Secretary of theS8 Un/led VIC TAYBACK lor SENIOR FELLOW 1 or 2 female roommates wanted lor sum-States, Alexander Hllig who will be this ........................................ .. .....
I PERSONALS I
LOST: A GOLD CHAIN AND CRUCIFIX 

mer apartment at Campus View. Call year's commencement speaker. Get your Dad, Don't worry, Erica is cOmpletely un­AT THE ROCKNE SWIM OFFICE. 1333 or 1264leeb tickets now... call 9-239-7171 lor lottery der my control.
Turtle:

"LOST" ON TUESDAY MARCH 23. .................. , ............................,.. LYONS HALL FOODSALES OFFERS ticket reservations. Kent Bogard 
How is your pupil progressing? Is he bi·1982. IF "FOUND" PLEASE RETURN Friend needs a ride !rom Northern Illinois 
THE BEST IN FRESH, THICK CRUST lingual yet? tri-lingual? But what language 
TO 828 GRACE HALL OR CALL JOHN suburbs to SMC 4/23. Please call There· PQZA DEUVERED ANYWHERE ON Tommy Typset--you're SUCH a fo~l
comes after Braille? 
AT 6721· NO QUESTIONS WILL BE sa at41·4270. 
SOUTH QUAD FOR THE NOMINAL ASKED. HAS MUCH SENTIMMENTAL 
DEUVERY CHARGE OF 25 cent• English Rabbit ······•···················· ···········-·············. VALUE. Ed, Someday the plane will crash. 
.De~need one or more grecll• THURSDAY NIGHTS FROM 11:30 TO 11 Are you disgusting? a loser? a dreadful lion llckiltl. C•ll217-6032. AND ORDER YOURS. ALSO: EVERY Chamber Losers It's time for. a GOOD bore? a total hog? Do you never wash 
............ ................. LOST A PAIR OF GLASSES BETWEEN Eastern Airlines proudly announces its
WEDNESDAY NIGHT IS GUEST party. We'll even get Jodie to comet How your hair? get ooft on organic chemistry? PANGBORN AND STADIUM Need ride to PURDUE for Grand Prix on CELEBRITY NIGHT WITH WELL· about Ray's house? chew your toenails as a spare-time hob­Campus Costcutters Program.
THE new A FRIDAY NIGHT APRIL 2 NEED THESE Fri. April 23. Can leave anytime. Call KNOWN CAMPUS.AGURES by? If you are an ND/SMC woman who simple, inexpensive, and last melhod for 
TO SEE!I! PLEASE CALL 284-4519 Sherri6819 shipping personal eftects home. Watch REWARD !I! tor details coming soon. 
WORKING THE COUNTER! fits this description (or has a room ate that 
does) then JOE MUSUMECI of Grace 
I 
To the woman from Holy Cross(SMC)
MIKE GUADAK FOR U.M.O.C•.•••.HE Hall is your man. Ca!l this fox whO has a ·························•·······•··•··························· FOUND A bracelet at the StanfOrd Greg-Before I become the subjact of a
who took her little sister and cousin to 
REALLY WANTS ITIIII Iettish lor girts above a size 44 at 1584··
Stanford Hall two weeks ago: What's your 
Vegetable party. To claim call8738. .......................................... yes, that's 1584--and maybe you can eulogy... Your ice cube cravings are bad 
name?!? Please call John at 6688 
FOR SALE 

enough but your sleeping habits are an­
AN TOSTAL DAISY SALE. APRIL 17-20, have your turn with the "NO gigolo" (TB-·
lost: blue backpack ~»ntaining books, other story. I can vouch tor it. April,
IN YOUR LOCAL DINING HALLS I! you're e~cluded. remember this always. 
glasses. checkbook. Tl35. University USED & OUT·PRINT BOOKS bought. ................................... joseph -Idon't get mad, I get even I) ··•··· Park Mall, Tues. 4/8 Cali 217-3710 EILEEN denizen of 2-west has struck
Welcome to ND, hope you anjoy yoursold, searched. ERASMUS BOOKS. Vinyl Jefters for UMOC-Ugly Moon on 
lily! 

again. I reply: Thou art pleasant,lues-Sunday, 12-6. 1027 E. Wayne (One Campus. 
···-·................. .....

ATIENTION:Towhoever"borrowed"my gamesome, passing courteous, ... Thou
... . . . . . . .. . 

block south of Eddy·Jefterson intersec­Don•t forgllt••• to join. Tim Neely Sunday 
Vour81gSia

wallet and watch !rom the student canst not frown, thou canst not look as­
tion.) Frauline Schneider •• Please don't give up ar6 pm lor The Top 20 Time Tunnel ex­security. The watch has great Mntlmenlll kaunce, Nor bite the lip as angry wenches
on us. If it's the Schnapps, then I promise clusively on WSNO AM 641 This week's USED BOOK SHOP. HOURS WED., I'll stop drinking today. The Nazis cannot countdown is from the third week in April, 
value, and k would taka ma llbout 88 will, Nor hast thou pleasure to be cross in , weeks to repl-all of the stuff In the w.r­SUN. CASPERSON harm us. We must talk --please meet me Meet poet RICHARD TILLINGHAST talk: But thou .. nth mildness entertains!
SAT. 9-7. 1303 1970, a great list if there ever was one,
during hll poetry I'Ndlng, Wad. April
let. No questions will be ukiiCI... thy wooers. s·,ncerety and with warmest
BUCHANAN RD.• NiLES. tOnight at the Kit Kat· Klub. -Herr Schultz with songs by John Lennon, the Beetles, 
21 at 7:30 p.m., Steplalon Lounge or 
regards, Kid. during •n OPEN WORKSHOP, Aprll22
....................................................... 
Simon and Gartunkel, the Guess Who, SURPLUS JEEPS $65, CARS $89. What good is sitting alone in your room? the Jackson 5, the Supremes. etc., etc. 
at 4 p.m., allo In Steplilton. 
MIKE, How sit go~n· Big Guy? Love Katie. 
TRUCK $100. Similar bargains available. Life isn't that long a stay. Come to the 
L.-1_FO_R_R_EN_T----J/ 

Call for your directory on how to pur­Cabaret. old chum. Life is a Cabaret!! chase. 602-998-0575 Ext. 3648 Call Tickets on sale starting April 5, for theN. MAY THE BEST MAN ALWAYS COME
Attention all you sexy wenches out there!! 
4 Bdrm N Shore $270 mo total. Call Paay refundabl!'. D. Student Players performance of the OUT ON TOP! Ryan. Are you Jewish? Guess who? 
Sunday is Bird'a birthday!I And It won't
3193228735 Call refunded Broadway hit CABARET · 118 apant u a dly of reat. Call hfm 8860 
............................................................... Special 01-unta for Notre Dame 
or-him In p&I'ICin 113 :Z.hm. You'll
NICE HOUSES FURNISHED CLOSE TO faculty on computers and peripheral Announcing the PmSBURGH CLUB TO RICH MELUTI.Have a good one as
-regmltttlllll RAY,
NO FOR NEXT YEAR 2n3604 prOducts, printers, mOdems. etc. Hewleh· HAPPY HOUR this FRIDAY, APRIL 16 the big day approaches. THE OOOGER 
WE THINK YOU ARE THE BEST!!! 
................................................. Packard, Zenith. FOURWAV COM­FROM 3:00 TO 6:00 in Flanner's Com­
THE BOTIOM DWELLERS
H YOUR OWN 8088. Comforllbla 5 PUTER PRODUCTS, INC., 52758 US 31 moner. ELECTIONS FOR NEXT YEAR'S SORRY DO, ONLV KIDDING 
...................
Mary:

bed~ -plelaly fumllhad North (Acrou from North Vllllga Mall) OFACERS ~LL TAKE PLACE AT 
Next time you make me jewish, be more SORRY DAVE!!! 
'--tor I or 1. Clole to campua. 217·7720. THIS TIME. All member• •re FREE 8nd CHERI.NORMA,NANCV,AND JEN: 
careful with the kn1fe.
Phone 21&-3142. If you arrtw a8l'ly, you will 1110 gilt • Thanx lor everything, you all made my
Ryan 'choir boy' Ver Berkstein TRACY, I MISS PARTYING WITH YOU. 
coucH ···;;ofl .. ·s:..\Le:9;;.;;;·· ~~~dii,~~: lrM Pltlllburgh Club Shirt SO DON'T 
birthday the best ever. Aren't great fnends LOVE, BUZZHEAD 
For Rent: Student Housing-rated make me an oftert call Nick 272-6001 MISS ITIll (Bring some prooflo show that AWESOME. RON and TONY: Thanks for superior-summer and/or fall. Clean. sate. (eve) 239-6103 (day) you're !rom Pittsburgh and bring a lritlnd). the JD. (can I have a COORS?). Hey A,
Hey Big Feet: TRACY, U R 14 carrot' GOLD TO US. 
laundry, utitities, $100/mo lotal. 291-thanxlor delivenng the Personal. Be good 
tieLP!tNeeo$:sr6.(iri.HoMeiMusr 
How's the freckle prOduction? Don't fall in­WE LOVE VA .... 4A 
1405 ATIENTION ALL UMOC HOPEFULS· you guys and have a great summer. to the shadow of any massive monu­
MARC
SELL VORX CASS-AM/FM Be on your UGLIEST BEHAVIOR! TIME 
ments. abiogenesisabiogenesis2 houses near Corby's & STEREO/FREE TURNTABLE IS RUNNING OUT Ill 
The aspiring podiatrist abiogenes1sabiogenes•s
Leundromat;1012 S B Ave.$325-5 W/PURCHASEI·ANTHONV-3526· .................... 
abiogenesisabiogenes1s

rooms. huge basement, 1 beth:822 N PLEAE DON'T MAKE ME STAY IN SO. Appearing Sunday: RIAN GOREY VI Frances.$425-7 rooms,2 BEND I BOB CRABLEon Court 1 Stepan at 4:30 balh.Water,Eiec,Garbage inci,New ..........,...... ALL NEW POETS CLUB featurmg live 
Kitchens. Gas Heat:Bill,232-7135 Happy Hour at Panctore'• ~very Friday I hate linebackers! -Rian Gorey MOLL V Knock 'em dead showgirll Break band "APEX" Fri. 5·7:30 Dillon Pub. ALL DRAMAI DANCE! MUSIC! ART! 
3-6 p.m. All used books 58b oft; all new a leg in Cabaret Your Babboos in the WELCOME! FRESHMAN & SOPHMORES: Are you 3-4 bedroom, 3 blocks from campus. Mr. books 26b oft. This ·week only--used You·ve waited 4 years and now it's herel OeapEnd cultured? Apply to be the 1982-1983 Noe, 287-9636. Summer or Fall. poetry & sociology !i6b oft. 937 South The long awaited matchup of Bookstore CULTURAL ARTS ASSIST ANT COM· 
Bend Ave., 233-2342. is: Rten Gorey VI 8ob Ctlbla Court 1 Observer softball game next Friday!!! AI· To a shy Islander tan, MISSIONER. Applications are being ac­Subleasing Campus View Apt. Jun.-Aug. Stepan-Sunday at4:30!1 ter you get hit by jello on the South Ouad. Here IS what you can do-cepted !rom Friday. April 16 up until Reduced Rent. Call Anne Or Mary 4637 eeeAuriFul.FofioFiesr.\ i98Ci·;;.:ith .................. ! ........ . ... ... head out to the game starting at 3:30 prn. 1. call me again, or Friday. Apr1l 23. Come pick up your ap­
········ ·········· 

(SMC) 5500 miles, call277·4413 nights or mor­ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING lor all Ryan 'softball' Ver Berkmoes, League 2. see me at 129 Zahm alter 1 o. or plication in the Student Union Oftice. 2nd ..................................................... nings those Interested In working on the 1982-Comissioner 3. tell me where to lind you. floor La Fortune. Furnished House for next year • 6 bdnn 2 ....................................................... 83 Transfer Orientation Committee Mon· 01course all the usuaJaccoutrements will Thanks, beth $540 per mo. 717 St. Louis Call Tom For sale, Yamaha motor bike, OT 50 day, April 19, 6:30 pm in the PW 24-hr be provided Scott McGann 277-3461 or 272-9299 practically new, 272·5418 lounge. Anv Questions call Annie, 2785. 
The Observer -Sports Friday, April 16, 1982 -page 11 
Simari--A true Mr. Bookstore 
This is the age of free agency in sports. It all began 
with Curt Flood, Andy Messersmith and baseball. It 
spread to hockey and, to a lesser extent, football and 
basketball. 
Unfortunately, it also has been a part of Bookstore 
Basketball almost since its inception. 
Everyone on this campus has heard stories about teams that were fairly successful, only to lose their best player to the ego-inflation of a better team and the chance to go "just one round further." 
But, happily, it hasn't always happened. This is the story ofone time that it didn't. 
Wednesday, Rob Simari became the all-time single­game scoring leader in Bookstore history. He scored 18 ofhis team's points. But "Sam Gilbert's Free Clinic" lost an overtime thriller, 26-24. 
Simari was a fairly decent player before coming to Notre Dame. His junior high school team toured Europe playing exhibitions. He was captain of a high school team that included Southern Cal's All-America offensive lineman Roy Foster. 
In one tournament or another Simari played against the likes of Maryland's Albert King and Arkansas' Scott Hastings. 
But Notre Dame is chock full ofstories just like these, and Simari was far from being one ofthe top players on campus. 
But his love for the game led Simari to the room of former Bookstore Commissioner Leo Latz in the spring of 1980. Latz and his commission were impressed with his knowledge of the game and his knack for organiza­tion. So, a short time before the ninth edition of this tradition got underway, Simari became the tourna­ment's fourth ~ommissioner. 
No one else on this campus was as involved with Bookstore. Only MCAT's kept him off the courts, despite rain, wind, cold and even snow. He put together a tenth-anniversary celebration that brought together the cornerstones upon which what has become the world's largest basketball tournament were built. 
And he never won a ~arne. 
...Clubs 

continuedfrom page 16 
for the women en route to winning the all-around competition handily. McHugh scored an 8.75 in the floor exercise, 8.15 in the balance beam and uneven bars and an 8.0 in the vault. 
Megan Zillig placed second in the vault with a score of7.8, while Cindy Salvino placed third in the floor ex­ercise and the uneven bars with respective scores of 7.45 and 7.1. Faculty moderator and field hockey coach jan Galen finished an im­pressive second in the balance beam with a score of6.8. 
Louis DeLeon had the top in­dividual finish for the men by placing first in the pummel horse with a score of 7.3. Brian McLaugh­lin had a 6.6 score in the floor ex­ercise for a second-place finish. McLaughlin had the top individual score for the men with a 7.9 effort in the vault as he took third place. 
Also taking third places for the 
team were Ed Barrett in the high bar 
. 
Skip Desjardin 
For four years he tried and, in each ofthose years, he fell short. His team lost 21-7 during his freshman year, 21-15 and 21-18 in the years that followed. As each new tournament approached, Sitnari had ample opportunity to dump his teammates-none ofwhom had as much as ridden the varsity bench through their high school careers -but he didn't. 
He played with a couple of guys who scored three points -or less -in all four games combined. But he continued to pass off, and kept on setting picks. He stuck with lousy players because they were his friends, because playing on the same team with them was fun ­even when they lost. 
It is very possible that nobody ever wanted to win a game more than Simari did Wednesday. It is even more likely that nobody ever deserved -by virtue simply of what he gave to the tournament -to win more than he did. One thing is certain, however -no one ever played a better game. 
Not Shumate or Brokaw -the concensus All­Americans. Not Hanzlik or Tripucka -today's NBA regulars. Not Lisch or Clements -the NFL quarter­backs who doubled as Bookstore stars. 
No one ever scored 18 points in one game, until Simari did it this week 
When all is said and done, Wednesday's performance epitomized everything that is good about Bookstore Basketball. A kid went out and played the game of his life, but lost, because he chose to stick with his friends and have fun rather than let the game get too important. 
Rob Simari played for the fun ofit, and can be prouder ofthat than ofa whole career worth of victories. 
.................................
. : 
~ SERD OBSEBVEB PEBSORALS i 
. 
.................................: 
66 ~~[[]~~[] MUJ~[rJ~lJ1J g (RJ [BfnJ~~f~~[J gg BEL~~E~~~RE~FTHE~~RlD HU~IJER S~TU~T ~~~ ~~[) S~lUT~~~S T~ PR~BlE~ TH~T ~~llS ~~ll~~~S EUER'r' ~E~R. 
~ 2~~[]~-? P~., SUf.ill~'r' ~PR~l ~8, ~qa2 SE~~~~R R~~~ ~U~BER ~~E, 
~~RE~U SE~~~~R'r' 
f[]A J~fUla Ltlilll!BJll filfri:Jff!cA tlillf 2? ?-Si ~g7!!!!!!!!~ []A Jtlil~M3 ~tlilAlfJ~ tlillf 2 1iBo~~[;'il 
~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!Sf?[]~S[]Art:[[] IB'u' lfHJA[[] OO[]Al[[] LUl~Lri:A~S tfil~[[] lf!rurt: Hlll~ITJrt:A filA[]JtLlf 
What do 

Magazine and the Communications & Theatre Department 
have in common? 
,-··· . ,. .: Bookstore Basketball entered its second round ofplayyesterday with the usual bard-nosed action. The Observer's exclusive coverage ofyesterday's games begins on page 16. At left, Skip Des­jardin profiles a man who typifies everything Bookstore Basket­ball represents -Commissioner Emeritus Rob Simarl. (Photo by Cheryl Ertelt) 

-
r--

The Observer -Sports 
Friday, April 16, 1982 -page 12 
Women's tennis 

LaFratta lives up to MVProle 
LaFratta is from Richmond, Va,
ByJANE HEALEY and two brothers graduated from 
Sports Writer where she attended Douglas 
here so I always knew I wanted to Freeman High School. She captained come here." 
To be voted the Most Valuable that school's tennis team her junior 
Oddly enough, tennis was not al­Player of the Notre Dame women's and senior years. The team was 
ways a part of her Notre Dame tennis team by one's teammates is runner-up in its state tournament dream. LaFratta calls herself "a late 
something really special. To be a th~;ee out ofher four years there. 
bloomer." She did not start playingfreshman and earn that prestigious LaFratta's talent was not limited to tennis competitively until age 14. 
award is something even more than the tennis court, though. She also She got her start after her father built special. was dedicated to her studies. In her a court in the backyard.
It is spectacular. senior year she won an award for A late bloomer she might be, but That seems to be the way things athletic and academic leadership. 
LaFratta definitely is a fast learner. are going in the life offreshman Lisa It is easy to see why La Fratta Only four years after her first tourna­LaFratta, the MVP of the women's would be recruited by a lot of uni­
ment, she placed third in Virginia's tennis team. versities. When it came down to a 18-and-under category. LaFratta Now one might be inclined to final decision, the choice was be­
cites it as the biggest moment ofher think that a person in LaFratta's posi­tween Boston College and Notre high school life. tion would be overconfident or Dame. 
But this is college now. This is even cocky. On the contrary, LaFrat­What swayed LaFratta's decision? 
Notre Dame. Yet, things haven't ta is sweet, congenial, sincere and In her own words, "I've always changed all that much. Here, as in still manages to be a little shy. wanted to go to Notre Dame. My dad 
high school, LaFratta fills the first 

BOOG POWELL (Former American smaller over there. BOOG: Tastes great? That's why I 
Baseball Great): Koichi here has KOICHI:--:::> .t 'J I y 3-~ -r--,J,~ d) drink it, too' I guess we have a lot been giving me a new angle on ~B$A~~~~*b~~~T9~o more in common than I thought. baseball. It seems the game's a BOOG: Well; now that you men­KOICHI: .:t ~jj IJ ! t"? -r·-rI B* little different in Japan. tioned it, I guess you guys are ~!fi*-7--At=A. IJ .t ~ /vb'o KOICHI NUMAZAWA (Former kind a smaller. Does that mean BOOG: Me? I'm too big to play on Japanese Baseball Great): you drink Lite Beer 'cause it's less a Japanese team. .:t? 1 fJIJ~(£71-)J, riJ<Ij\~ d) filling? KOICHI: .:t ~ ''-:. t ~ \.. \-r··-r ~I y ·c-rno KOICHI: \.. \~ :...I }.; \.. \ L \.. \b' I? !Xt; 3-~ t=m~-r-·-r ~ o BOOG: That's right. The field is lv -r··-r ~"' BOOG: Shortstop?! Very funny. 
-

singles slot on the tennis court. In 
the classroom, she is a diligent pre­
med student possibly heading for 
dental school. 

LaFratta thinks the biggest adjust­ment she had to make from high school was battling homesickness. "It's wierd being so far from home," she says. 
Concerning the change to a new team and a new coach, l.aFratta had only good tales to tell. "It was pretty amazing," she says. "Half the team is composed offreshmen and yet, right away all the older girls accepted us. The captains, Tina Stephan and Carol Shukis, are always there for help." 
Head Coach Sharon Petro has played a major part in LaFratta's ten­nis game. While playing in Virginia, LaFratta played almost totally on the baseline, rarely if ever coming up to the net. "Sharon has added a whole new dimension to the way I play," LaFratta says. "I'm still a little shy at the net, but I do play the net more often now." 
In turn, Petro had some com­plimentary words for her freshman phenom. "She's a real hard worker on the court and in the classroom," comments Petro. "She excells in both areas because of her hard work." · 
So far for LaFratta and the rest of the team, the hard work has paid off. Last fall, the Irish captured the AlAW Division II district championship and LaFratta took the crown at first singles. 
The MVP award was another high­light of LaFratta's career, something she describes as "the nicest thing to ever happen to me." 
But unfortunately for the team, its spring trip to Louisiana and the following matches produced an 0-8 record. "We didn't play well," ad­mits LaFratta With a smile, she adds, "But you know the trip wasn't a dis­aster. As a team we got real close and got to know each other better. That will help the rest ofspring." 
As for the rest of the season, LaFratta is optimistic. "We always seem to ,be right up there with the other team," she says, "but we don't close the game. We need mental toughness and I think we are developing it." 
This weekend LaFratta and her teammates will be in Kalamazoo, Mich. They will face Northern Il­linois today and both Western Mich­igan and Kent State tomorrow. Not surprisingly, LaFratta predicts the team will go 3-0 this weekend and eventually go on to win the state regional tournament. 
"We should win regionals be­cause we have a lot of talent, a good team, and we are a close team," she says enthusiastically. "That's a big part ofNotre Dame, the closeness of the team, the feeling that there is more to tennis and the team than competition." 
Aside from the weather, LaFratta is very happy at Notre Dame. It is everything she expected and more. She sums it all up with a big smile, "I love it!" 
Somehow, it's not very hard to believe her. 
~~---­

-------~~-------­
The Observer-Sports Friday, April 16, 1982 page 13 
... Bookstore 
conttnuedfrom page 10 
Step.on 5 No Games Scheduled Step.on 6 No Games Scheduled Stepen7 No Games Scheduled 
......... 

No Games Scheduled 
....._. 

The Smooth Ones over Hungry Rata on a String by t7 Gerltol Express and Four Lad8 over h'a a Miracle We Got Thoa Fill' by 8 That' a Right, Wez Bad II o-Woody and the Four Spltnteraby5 Red Rummara o-Flaah and the Gash by 13 ......... ,0 
e..., Leaa Jackaonleaa Five over Ucll My Greasy 
.by 18 
Cooz over The Bloated Stomache by 14 
Love Sauce o-Reatleaa Shade of Moo..Control by II Who tile Hell ana The.. Guys o-Baecher Tool and Die by 14 
Lyonel1 

Doctors of LAyup over Crime Doesn't Pay by 13 
Shooting Wedo o-Four Whales and the Grabber by 17 Neatfe'o Crunch and the Bloated Stomachs over MBA Five by 15 U., end Coming over B.F. and the Raanonders by II 
Lyonel2 

Sumua Vlri over Magott'a Magana by 14 
Fat Eddie end tile Boys that Come from Behind CMr0FFby18 
Hey, WheN.,.theWhlteWOINilAt?over Pro-­
'*'8ociNI 8pongH II by 7 Comin' at Ya CMr Quintin Dailey and Four Cocky O..yaby 13 
..,.,, 

4:00-F;ng.r.ln tile Socltat v. The Gat None Club 
Goaa lo tile Hoop 4:46-Lou'a Legacy II v. M.C.O.B 5:30-~C... v. Five Pubae on tile Rim t!:15-B.P.'a "-'bagav. 8u1ord Never Gala Laid 
..,.,2 

4:00-F ..., Gtaaa. We Can SIMI Make tile NIT v. F.,.....Finllla 4:45-Slick 8 .. and the SatliiCiOUa L.M. v. Two Mict<a. Two Wope and a Minority to be Named LAter 5:30-Samurral Daadmen v.LAatofthe Stooatera 
8:15 -How to Burn Cool<lae whh Bob 8ulc v. Mll­
·-• 
..,.,, 

4:00 -Judge Dtxon and the Well-Hung Jury v. 
Ftva Scottsh Boxers 4:45-The Pubtc Cube v. N.E B.C.'s II 5:30-Bad~nger v Phyllis and the Pips 6:15-Doggte Style or No Style v Son ol Dyxz 
Step.on 4 

4:00 -Bnc Throwers v The Genenc Urut 4 45 -Two Dogs and a Coke lor a Buck v. J J Youngs Auto and Rtbs 
5 30 -I ve Got a Better Idea v Wtndex -the Glass Cleaners 
6:15 -The Gnme thAt Collects Under Your T oenatls v The Loadtng Zone 
Step.on 5 4 ·oo -Ronald Reagan and the DefecJts v Pac 
Man and Hts Much Men 4 45-Mt St Helens Skt Team v 
A h 
Only Games Scheduled Stepan 6 No Games Scheduled Step.on 7 No Games Scheduled Step.on 8 No GamesScheduled 
Bookatonoll 
Arnte and the 

4·00-Sptderman and the Four Avengers v US 4 45 -James Brady and the Wash•ngton Bullets v Yak&tn Heat 5'30 -The Flonda Crowtrotters v. Absente of Talent 6 15 -Taka thts Ball and Shove It v Jack Dante Is and Your Mother 
Bookatore 1 0 4 00 -Ftve Men Etght Hands v Barracudas 4 45 -Natalte Wood Aquattc CLub v We Bad 
5:30 -Macn s Monkey Men v Cocoons Ill 6 15-Wood Dtstnbutors. Inc v Trojans 
Lyona11 4 00-lncreda-legs Mqets Ftve Power v Harmony Davtason and the Mtnstret Cycles 4 45 -717 St Louts v Bo<er Shorts Bnal Ap· pearanctJ 5 30 -Btshop Neslle ana the Chocolate Cadavers v Ragger. Feltotd and Three Gyps 6 15-Reckless Abandon v Penetramos Lyona12 4 00-Btlly Jean Ktng and Four Ways to Ltck Your Opponent v Hoban s Heroes 4 45 Franttc v Snag 
5.30 -QUinttn Oatley and Four Guys Who Force 11 tnstde v Sons ot Thunder 
6· 1 5-Team Bud v Strapamasquon and the Com­bat Wombats 
lT~~fE 6AR i-tousE 
! 
• Beer 
Open till

•liquor 
3:00am!!.

• Carry out 
-SINGlES BAR -BOOZE &DANCING 

Tomorrow's Schedule Stepan 1 

1:30 -Endangered Feces v. The Clinic 2:15-Outnttn Oatley and the Four Felons v. Box and One 
3:00-Four Blowoffs and a Deep Throat v. Spon­taneous Combustion 
3:45 -John Belusht Takes the Pepst Challenge v. Outntin Dailey and Four More Who Can Put It in the Hole 
4:30 -Mtke Hunhches and the Crabs v. Four Hetero · s and Yoder 
5:15-Stroktng lnsh Cum Agatn v. Were Still Not Demers 
6:00 -Full House v. Pentsaurus and the Four Sktns Only Games Scheduled 
Step.on 2 

1:30 -The Nutmeggers Are Back Agatn v. The Rack Pack 
2:15-Five Average While Men v. Kitchel and the Kamtkaze Thunderbtrds 
3:00 -Fatr Enough v. Linda Lovelace and the Throats 
3:45-We Dtd it Our Way v. Chuck Connors Last Chance 
4:30 -A Touch of Class v. Five Guys that Can Beat Landon Turner One~on-One 
5:15-Dtp and the Cockless Wonders v. Double DeckerOreo 
6:00 -Anonymous v. The Ox and the Hot­Shooting Z·Men II OnIy Games Scheduled 
Stepan 3 1:30-The Blood Sucktng Monkeys from W. Millin Penn v. Cozmic Debreeza 2:15-Ntcote·s Dad, Aunt and Three Uncles v. Dribbling Dyxz 
3:00-Mike Cahill's Gaza Stoppers v. We Want to Play F•ve Guys that Can Penetrate but Can·t Shoot in the First Round 
3:45 -Anwar Sadat and Grandstand Shooter v. Brogan s Heroes 4:30-Four Pinch Hitters and McKelvy v. Captain 
Kirk and the Things that Wouldn't Leave 5:15-The Air Florida Swimming and Diving Club 
v. HAS 
6:00-Slmllac and the Four Dead Babies v. Prop­hylactic and the Sate Shooters Come Again Only Games Scheduled 
Stap.on4 1:30-Outnttn Dailey and Hts AII-Amencan Felons v. We'll Steal20 2:15-Jackitup v. Lizzy Borden and the Hatchet Men 
3:00 -John Murphy's Slime Tratn Ill v. Tamar and the Wasted Seeds 
3:45 -Quinttn Dailey and Four of Hts Counts v. The Storekeeper's Misfits 
4:30 -Doctors of Deluston v. Johnny the Wad Holmes and Four Other Guys Who Can Fill It to the Bnm 
5:15-Skull and the OpltcJam v. You Golla Want It 
6:00 -Joe Spunk and the Pearl Necklaces v. Tnple Stuff Oreo Only Games Scheduled 
Stepan 5 3:00-Wtldcats II v. Old Men on the Block Only Game Scheduled Stepan6 No Games Scheduled Stepan 7 No Games Scheduled Stepan 8 No Games Scheduled Bookatono9 12:45-Ftve Doomers that Still Extst??? v Mung and the Restless 
1:30 -Coach Gypo s Pervone Heads v Hawktns 
and the Bad-Asses 2:15-Natalie Wood Swtm Team v Shysters 3:00-Four Hoos1er Haters and a Hoos1er v. S1d s 
Seamen Meet the Men tn the Boat 3·45-The F1ve Defenders v Head and Seamon Realty 
4.30 -Phtl Latio and the Four Sktns v The Denver 
Gin Wreckers 5:15-Hills Angels v. San Ouent1n Oatley 6:00-Talk Plenty S. Agatn v. T D. Express 
Only Games Scheduled Booketono 10 12:45-The Prolles v Thomas Aqutnas and the Junst Prudes 1:30-Agent Orange and the Alter-Effects v. Wtnd Suckers 2:15-The Avengers v. Chuck Taylors 
3:00 -Stan s Runntng Bungunners v. Bookstore for Bonzo 3:45-We ve Got Your Mother v. But Can She Go to Her Left? 4:30-No Sugar Added v. We II Steal 20 Wtns­Sure 
5:15-Tequtlla Whtte Ltghtning II v. Peanut Butter Legs 
6:00 -Dog Walsh and the High Rates II v. Five Lazy Sods 
6:45 -Eddte O'Rourke and the Traveling Strag­
glers v. Virtuals Lyona11 
12:45 -Five D.O.o.·s After Some S. by the Pool v. Death or Glory 
1:30 -Johnny Carr and the Keg Creatures v. Bloody Rubble and the Kansas City Hotel Sky Walkers 
2:15 -Ftve Guys Who d Rather Be in Evansv•llev. Beecher Meat and Liquor 
3:00 -Austnan Deponees v. NYAAWI 3:45-The Soph1SI1cados v. You rein Trouble 4:30-Anwar Sadat and the Gunners v. Jim Pink, 
the Blues and the Big Red Edition 5:15-Spoofhounds II v. Logan·s Heroes 6:00-Buster Hymen and Connie Ling us are Back 
and Better Than Ever v. Hang On II Only Games Scheduled 
Lyona12 12:45-Macktn Htgh v. Flliptno Five 1:30-169 Longnecks v. Mangled Baby Ducks 2:15-Pete MacDonald v. Snite Museum and Four 
Other Multi-Million Dollar Wastes 3:00-The Neplusultras v. Four Jerks and a Drib­bler 
3:45 -The Greater Metropolitan Area Gyrating Gigolos v. Haywood Jablomi Now 
4:30 -Ftve Guys Who Haven't Dated A.C. , .A Vantshtng Breed v. Raben E. Grant and the Union Rebels ' 5:15-Ten Masters v. Twinkle and the Creamers 
6:00 -The Second Comtng of the Embarrassing Stains v. Showdown 
Only Games Scheduled 
NOTE: Stnce two-thirds of the participants in Sun­day·s sectional quarterfinals (Round Three) won·t be determtned until after Ieday's and tomorrow·sgames. it is impossible to publish Sundays schedule. Com­plete results of Sunday·s games plus a scheduled for Monday·s sectional semifinal games will appear in Monday s Observer. 

r-----~----~----~~,~~---~--1
t ": ' GREAT WALL t Hambu~g~~~~~~~ES t
· 

The New York Rangers con­tinued their winning ways last night by beating their cross­
Rangers 
town rivals, the/slanders, 5-4 in Game One of their series. In• • other games, Boston beat
wtnagat-n Quebec, 4-3; Chicago got by St. Louis, 5-4; and Vancouver edged 
Los Angeles, 3-2,;... 
t 

·• '.. Chin_e_s._e__.&:._A_m___e_rica.n Restaurant
-

& Cocktail lounoe CarryourAuoilable
i .l:l: l 
' 1 H~p!J Hour S:OJ>-7:00pm Mon.-Sat. 
& Banquet ro_oms available Banquet li group rates available 
' ' Best Chinese SAme.rican Food in Town 
' _ 
t *Reasonably Priced &Hospitable
t FEATURING: t AMERICANDINNERS 
' -------­
't PRIMERIB(QUEENCUT)...................................7.95 Mon.-Thurs.: 11:30o.m.-10:00p.m. & 
' 
Fri.&Sat .•.•••.Jl:30a.m.-11:00p.m. ' DEEP FRIED SHRIMP .£ 25 sun ............... 4-9 p.m 
t PORK CHOPS WITH~~~~·~;~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::. 5~25
t TERIYAKA STEAK (OR NEW YORK STEAK) ................5.25 ROAST BEEF. ..................•.. •••• .. •.. ••••••• ....•• .. • 4.95 
·TURKEY AND DRESSING ,.........., ......................4.50
t

t DEEP FRIED CHICKEN.....................................4.25 
HAM STEAK WITH PINEAPPLE RING.····················· .3.95 t DEEP FRIED COD FISH.····································3·95
t Americaf!.Pinners include Potato, Vegetable an_p_§alad Bar Extra Rolls $.10 
t orFrsh Sandwich.,. ,2.45 sucedHam.............z.zs ' 
Patty Melt • •••••••• , , • , .2.50 ' t Reuben...............z.so & 
B L T• • • • • • • • • • • ••••••• 2.25 ' t Steak Sandwich ........3.75 & & Turkey Manhattan. • • • •••2. 75 ' ' Roast BeefManhattan,. , ).75 & 
, cheese.............fscExtra ' ' Lettuce & Tomatoes.. ,10c Extra t 
t A,;::a~:~a.~::~.~~~;,;;;!~!0w~~t~~olc• t 
'ofWhippedPolltoesorFrenchFries. 
'---------' HOURS: t 
• 
Ill 1 
• 3 
tr -.....-· tt 

130 Dixie HWY .South C 
South Bend Ro•eland ' · 
naxtto Randall's Inn 
Cl f
21 f
~13.N.. 


1621 South Bend Ave. 233-4603 
WE WILL BEAT ANY ADVERTISED PRICE 
(YOU MUST BRING IN THEIR AD)
This Week BeerSpecials 
-~-------------------------~ 
Budweiser 24 cans Red White Blue 24 cans Old Milwaukee 24 cans Schlitz 12 pks Coors Light 12 pks Budweiser case qts 
Tuhorg Gold 6 pk 
..----~Quantities Limited-Expires 
6e99 5e79 
. 
5e49' 3e59 5e99 8.99 le89 


Keg Special------. 
Generic 25e49 Generic Light 25e49 
(Pkgincludes ice, 50 cups Deposit requiredJ------J 
... 

.... 
ByJANE HEALEY 
Sports Writer 

The sleeper in this year's women's Bookstore tournameirt may have been found. 
"Varner's Virgins" could tum out to be championship material. Coached by Notre Dame basketball pbyer Bill Varner, this team shows a lot ofenthusiasm and potential. 
Varner has been trying to teach his group ofgirls some ofhis basket­ball expertise. It showed up yester­day as "Varner's Virgins" defeated "The Uncoordinates" by the score of 21-4. 
Sophomore Patrice Purcell made a strong bid for a scoring title (if women's Bookstore has One) yester­day as her ten point carried "Lane Two and the Outsiders" over "Aunt Jemima's," 21-8. 
Balanced scoring was the name of the game as "The Farley Five" downed "Body Human" 21-1. Sharon Koehler led the scoring with seven baskets, but every member of the winning team contributed at least two points. That type of balanced attack will be helpful as Bookstore moves on. · 
This result could possibly be a Women's Bookstore record. "The Fiesty Wenches" were not able to score a point against "The Double Stuff Oreos," who centered their winning attack around Maureen Milota, who had seven points in the shutout. 
In the tightest Bookstore game of 
By BOB CASTELLO 
Sports Writer 

The inclement weather over Eas­ter Break was a hindrance to many Notre Dame teams, and Noel O'Sullivan's golfers were no excep­tion. 
On April 10 and 12, the Irish were scheduled to compete in the In­dianapolis Intercollegiate Invita­tional. But the event was cancelled because of the five inches of snow that covered the Eagle Creek Golf Course. 
Notre Dame's previously 
r-.,­
_.... 
The Observer -Sports Friday, April 16, 1982 -page 14 
VVonnen's~kstore 


'Virgins' victorious in tourney 
three strokes away from ninth place. 
ICELIIIDAIR lmODUCES 
IIEW BAROAIN FARES TO 
MORE OF EUROPE. 
WXEMBRG PARIS 
'4119 •581 
IOUIDTRIP ..DTRIP 
FROM CHICAGO FROM CHICAGO 
ZUIIICII FRIIIFURT
•• •557 
IOUIDTRIP IOUIDTRIP 
FROII CHICAGO FROII CHICAGO 
All Apex Far..: Aproll ·May 14. 19H2. 7-90 day sta)' (7·60 days Lu..m· boura). Slopovers pe-rmutrd m both dar~cuon1. 14 clay advance purchaH required. Stau limited. Ask about our low cost Normal. Samo Day, and Group fares. too. 
ALSO LOW COST CONNECTING SERVICE TO NICE AND AMSTERDAM. 
lcelandair to Li&embourg. Luxair or Crossair connecting service 
to other destin:..tions. 

• 
Confirmed reservation. a Free wine with dinner. cognac after. 

• 
Bargain Stopover Tours of Iceland and Luxembourg. • Bargain car rentals. • Purchase tickets in U.S. • All fares subject to change and government approval. 


Ste your tl'll••l•JII!Ut or r•ll8001555·1212 for tM toll Ire~ lctlandaor num~r 1n your are~. 




Cmtce tKek up yMIIt ~iK lice S&uiH lbcicmqbice W~. ~ 
the year, "Twisters" barely got by "Three's A Charm," 21-17. Cheryl Sweeney put her team over the edge with a solid six point effon. 
Yesterday's action completed the first round. On Monday, the 16 teams that are left will begin battling it out to see who will be the last eight teams left. 
Golfteam returns to action after layoff 
scheduled match, the Ball State In­vitational on April 5, also was can­celled when sleet and snow struck at about 3 p.m. The Irish had com­pleted six holes on the Whispering Oaks Golf Club course, located in Muncie, lnd 
"We were even par at the time the match was called," said O'Sullivan. "It was looking good. It was a shame the bad weather came." 
With little practice under their belts, the Irish nonetheless will com­pete this weekend in what O'Sullivan calls the "very best" ­The Kepler Invitational at the Scarlet GolfCourse at Ohio State University. The 54-hole tournamnent features 24 ofthe best golf teams in the Mid­west, including squads from the Big Ten and Mid-American Con­ferences, along with several major independents. 
It will be a tough challenge for the Irish. "We've had very little practice outdoors because of the snow," said O'Sullivan. "So we'll be at ;t disad­vantage. But we'll do our very best. 
"If you have talent, lack of preparation should not hurt you," continued O'Sullivan, wh{)se team has not played since defeating Olivet on April 1. "With talent, a team should be able to perform on any given day, any given moment." 
At Ohio State, the Irish will be without junior captain Stoney Ferlmann, one of the team's top players. Ferlmann will stay here to take medical school entrance ex­ams. junior Tom Scully will take his place. 
Last year, Notre Dame finished 13th out of 24 teams at the Kepler, but O'Sullivan is quick to point out that the Irish wtal of 1184 was just 
........-~------~-----~~-----~--------~--~ 
Ihe~r====================================== 
~~4()[~~-~==============================Fr=id=a=y=,A=p=r=il=l=6,=1=9=8=2==p=a=g=e=l=5


Michael Molinelli 


Garry Trudeau 




1 Obstacle 32 Wet earth 46 Meadow 5 Chinese 33 Windy City, mushroom beasts weight for short 49 Padre 23 Water 
9 Little bit 34 Borodln 53 Mark It (to softener 13 -shanter opera hero editors) 24 Respected 14 Brainstorm 35 "Cosmos" 55 Division Highlander 15 Coughs up personality word 25 Horatio-
dough 36 "There'll 56 Swiss city 26 Vacuum 16 Friends: Fr. be-time..." 57 She: Fr. tube 17 -Market 37 Buttons 58 Small 27 George 19 Finches 38 Genus of guitars, Bums prop 21 Existing, evergreen for short 28 Yellowish 
In Latin trees 59 Formal shade 22 Way out 39 Kind of approvals 29 Selected 23 "Gil-" towel 60 Fashion 30 Fundof 24 Tools for 40 She won an name money 
the soup Oscar, 1930 61 Idem 32 Men de jour 43 Fringed 35 Soothing 
27 -Lode vehicle DOWN effort (silver 44 "-a Male 1 Luminary 36 Marcus-find) War Bride" 2 Appellation 39 Gobble 
3 Ina crowd 41 Lissome 
4 Mark, for lasses
Thursday's Solution 
-

one 42 Shoplift 
5 Big city In 43 First coat Russia's 45 Detective Georgia Vance 
6 Of voting 46 American 
age columnist 7 Squirmers 47 Merriment 8 Language: 48 Personality 
abbr. facet 
9 Swarm over 49 251 10 Mr. Skinner 50 Paul of 11 Polanski music 
movie 51 News brief 12 Court man 52 Proboscis 15 Magnani and 54 Beatty 

C/16182 Karen ina of films 
Doonesbury 

Simon 


The Daily Crossword 


Campus 
Friday, Apri116 
•9 
a.m. -Lecture, Marc-Antonio Consoli, 323 Moreau Hall, Sponsored by COTH, 

•2:30 
p.m. -Conference, Word and Tone in Notre Dame Polyphony, Prof. Janet Knapp, Vassar College, .Annen berg Auditorium, 

•3 
p.m. -Honor Awards Ceremony for Col­lege ofEngineering CCE Auditorium, 

•3:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Knowledge: of Self' , Donald Davidson, Library Lounge, 

• 
3:30p.m. -Workshop, "The Role ofthe Church in Economic Development, Rev. Ernest Bartell, C.S.C., NO, Room 509 Memorial Library, 

•4 
p.m. -Meeting, Spanish Club Tertulla, Base­ment ofLaFortune, Sponsored by Spanish Club, •6p.m.­

•1 
p.m.-Debate, International Students Debate, Library Auditorium, Sponsored by International Students Affairs, 

•1 
p.m., and 9:30p.m. -Film, "Return ofthe Pink Panther", Carroll Hall, Sponsored by SAPB, n.oo 

•1 
p.m., 9:15p.m., & 11:30 p.m. -FUm, "The Sting", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Right to Life, n.oo 

•7:30 
p.m. -Film, "To Forget Venice", Annen­bergAuditorium, Sponsored by COTH, SI.OO 

•7:30 
p.m. -Discussion, El Salvador Teach ln, LaFortune Little Theatre, Sponsored by D.S.A. ND/SMC,

•s 
p.m. -Concert, L.overboy, ACC, SlO.OO 

Saturday, April17 

•1 
p.m. -Track, Ind. Intercollegiate Champion­ships, Outdoor track, 

•1 
p.m. -Reception, Ordination Reception, Congregation ofHoly Cross, CCE Main Lobby, 

•7 
p.m. -Reception, The Works of Margo Hoff, Moreau Gallery, 

•7 
p.m., 9:30p.m. -Film, "Being There", Carroll Hall, Sponsored by SAPB , S1.00 

•s 
p.m. -Concert, The Works of Consoli, Little Theatre, Sponsored by Saint Mary's Music Dept., 

•s 
p.m. -Guest Student Recital, Paul Sniegowski, and John Ellis, Library Auditorium, Sponsored by College ofArts and Letters, 

Sunday, April IS 

•12 
p.m.-Workshop, Ending Hunger: A Brief· ing, Moreau Seminary, Seminar Room 1, Sponsored by Third World Concerns and Hunger Project, 

•1 
p.m. -Student Recital, Marshall Scott, Library Auditorium, 

•1 
p.m. -Opening Exhibit, Retrospective Works of Ambrose Richardson, O'Shaughnessy Galleries, 

•1 
p.m. -FUm, "Ahista, Ahista", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by lndl'a Association, 

•2 
p.m . .-Mass, Mass with Emmaus: Community with the Mentally Handicapped Moreau Seminary, 

•6 
p.m. -Sign-ups, Sign-ups for .An Tostal Dating Game, LaFortune Ballroom, 


T.V. Tonight 
ll:OOp.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyc:witnc:ss Nc:ws 28 Newswatch 2H .H The Dick Cavc:u Show 
11:30p.m. 16 Tonight Show 22 NBA Basketball 28 ABC Nc:ws Nightline 34 Captioned ABC News 
12:00a.m. 28 SaiUrday Night Uvc: 12:30a.m. 16 SCTV Comedy Show 

J•··········.............................~....................... 
n0 Stu~€Tlt Umon announces 
!t1r6U&B'withpizza
mov1e lot1e~y~ppl1ca-gons 
aR€ ava1tasle at 2n0 ~looR Stuoent unom 0~~1ce. 
and Enricino Wine-What 
a cultural event!
any Questions contact ~~ 
Saturday: miT~ll®ill ~~11 --21 id 's required! 
Pick up invitation from your class reps Saturday afternoon. 

.. 
.. 
r--­
~ -:.. 
~ --~--------­

Friday, April 16, 1982 -page 16 
Defensive secondary 
Johnson searches for depth 
By DAPHNE BAILLE 
Sports Writer 
With five letter-winners returning to the secondary this year, defensive back coach Jim johnson doesn't need to worry about his players' ex­perience. However, the lack of depth in this unit has been a source ofconcern this spring. 
So much concern, in fact, that for­mer wingback John Mosley (6-1, 
195) has been asked to take a shot at the cornerback slot. 
"We lost two good cornerbacks in Qohn) Krimm and (Mike) Masini," explains johnson, "so we needed to find backups at that position. We looked t at the team and felt that nobody could help us as much as john Mosley. He's a very physical player -we know he's a hitter and he likes physical contact." 
In another switch in the secon­
·r-dary, senior mainstay Dave Duerson (6-3, 200) has moved to free safety, evacuating the strong safety post he held for two seasons. Duerson led the secondary in tackles last season with 55, while his 345 minutes played led the entire Irish roster. 
"Dave is definitely a leader," says johnson of the Football News third­team All-American. "He's a four-year starter and has played at every posi­tion in the secondary. Right now he feels very comfortable at free safety." 
Meanwhile, sophomore Joe johnson (6-2, 190) has moved from free to strong safety "simply because he's a more physical player -he likes to hit people," says johnson. Johnson admits the youngster is still learning, but "we think he'll do the job." 
Senior Rod Bone (6-2, 200) has seen little action this spring due to a knee injury, but the two-year starter will still be on the field often come fall. "With a year of experience be­hind him, Rod will be an improved ballplayer," estimates johnson. "He has good speed and is one of the hardest hitting defensive backs we have. He'll probably play a little at both the strong and free positions." 
Spring Football '82 
Rounding out the personnel list at safety is junior Daane Spielmaker ( 6­3, 190). "Daane has had the best spring so far among the defensive backs," praises the coach. "He gets an interception or something in every scrimmage." 
Johnson is content with four ex­cellent players at defensive back, but is justifiably worried about the cor­nerback situation. 
"Our biggest concern is depth," says johnson as he evaluates the secondary. "We've moved Stacey Toran (6-4, 195) to the strong cor­ner so he'll be playing the wide field." Toran also is learning a new position, having played the weak or boundary corner last year. He logged 300 minutes playing time as a sophomore in '81, third among the Irish. 
"Stacey is our best one-on-one pass defender," continues johnson. "He has what it takes to play the strong corner -we have all the con­fidence in the world in him." 
Unfortunately, there isn't much depth behind Toran at that corner. Senior walk-on Justin Driscoll ( 6-I, 
190) is filling the bill, and has opened some eyes with his progress. 
At the weak corner, junior Chris Brown (6-1, 185) returns as a start­er. "Chris is a good, smart football player," claims Johnson.' "He's a physical type and a good run suppor­ter. 
"Behind him we have john Mos­ley, who haslurneq out to be a nice surprise." 
These moves are an attempt to al­leviate the problems that plagued the Irish last year. "We have to eliminate the opponents' big plays -there were too many ofthem last year," johnson feels. "We'll play a lot of nickle defense, because we'll be facing some good throwing ball clubs. 
"You can't pinpoint one particular problem we had last year. We generally played well as a unit, but we got hurt by the big pass play or the long run. We discussed the problem, but couldn't seem to solve it in the games." 
johnson feels the players are on their way to finding some answers this spring. "We've been very happy with drills so far," concludes johnson. "The purpose of spring practice is to try to evaluate what we have. That's the luxury ofspring ball -we have the opportunity to see what each player can do." 
IRISH ITEMS -Tomorrow the team will conduct its first full-scale scrimmage of the spring. The workout, Notre Dame's 12th of 20, will be in the Stadium ...Former Irish kicker Bob Thomas (a '73 graduate) has returned to the campus this spring to work with the specialty squads ...Faust and his Bookstore team, "Old Men on the Block," are scheduled to make their debut Saturday at 3:00 on Stepan 5 .. .Joining Faust are assistants Tom Lichtenberg, Jim Johnson, Jim Hig­gins and ticket manager Steve Or­sini. 

Second round 

Seeded teams begin play 
ByWILLHARE 
Sports Writer 

Second-round action in the Bookstore Basketball Tournament began yesterday as several teams that received byes began play. 
"Even Less jackson-less Five," despite playing the first half with on­ly four players, shot 72 percent from 
Women~ golf, soccer begin play 
The Notre Dame women's golf and soccer clubs will highlight this week's club action by opening up their spring seasons. The golf squad travels down to Evansville today for its dual match against the school which has the perfect athletic nickname for golf ­Aces. 
Top returnees from the fall season for the Irish (when the team defeated Loras College by 43 strokes) include juniors Louise Mudd and Moya Nickodem. Classmates Monica Paas and Karen Genesee along with freshman Connie O'Brien round out the top five holdovers from the fall season. The club, captained by Mary Beth Heslin, also will travel to Cincinnati for a match on May 1. 
Meanwhile, the Irish soccer club will host its first major intercollegiate tournament tomorrow starting at 11 a.m. on the fields behind Stepan Center. Six teams, including the Irish, will compete in the round-robin event. 
Other teams that will compete include Saint Mary's, Northwestern, Kalamazoo and two squads from Mar­quette. The•tournament is expected to end by 4 p.m. 
RUGBY -On Wednesday, April 7, the 'A' and 'B' rugby squads for Notre Dame played host to and defeated Purdue University. Mike Carrol, Mark Deflin and Mike Sosh each scored for the Irish in the 12-6 'A' win. Brian Moynihan, a graduate student and former "All New-England" selection from Brown University, was credited by the team for making the biggest dif­ference-in the match. Back Danny Pearl and serum Joel McDermott also were cited for fine individual perfor­mances in a team effort. 
joe Timmins and john Reid each scored for the 'B' squad, while Steve Schneider kicked home two more points in the 10-0 victory. Clark Keough was praised for his individual efforts for the serums. The squad travels to Chicago for tomorrow's match against a team com­prised ofNotre Dame alumni. 
WOMEN'S SOFTBALL -The softball club dropped to 3-3 after losing three ofits four games this week. "It 
• 
-

was very disappointing because there was no way we should have lost any ofthose games," says student assis­tant coach Bob Spahn. "The two weeks without practice really hurt us. Our talent is there, but com­munication and the fundamentals were badly lacking in the defeats." 
On Tuesday, the Irish dropped a doubleheader to Saint Francis ofFort Wayne by respective scores of1 0-9 and 5-4. Val Harris hit the first home run ofthe year for the squad in the opener to pace a six-run first inning. Laura Chagnon was three-for-four in the game (including a triple), while Laurie Barry and Harris each had two hits in four at-bats. Team captain Karen Alig was four-for-seven on the day to pace the club in hitting. 
On Wednesday, the club split a doubleheader with Saint Mary's. Harris got the win for Notre Dame in the 9-8 victory in the opening game, and Linda Kelleher earned the save. Jill Strenzel had a triple and was two­for-two at the plate. Barry had two RBI's in the game to lead the club in that category. The Irish fell to defeat in the second game by a 4-2 count. 
GYMNASTICS -A shortage of participants for the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's gymnastics club helped the Purdue Boilermakers avenge a loss to the club earlier in the year. In the final meet of the year for ND-SMC, the men were defeated, 106-96.2, while the women lost, 79.3-76.65. 
The meet, however, was dominated by Notre Dame's Denise McHugh as she took first place in all four events 
See CLUBS, page 11 
the field and defeated "Lick My Greasy ..." by a count of 21-5. Gor­don Findlay hit 7-of-9 shots and Bill Hathaway and Tony Anderson 
BOOKSTORE XI 

combined for 10-of-13 shots to lead the "Jackson-less 5" in a game that took just fourteen minutes to play. 
As for the teams that had byes, it was a rather easy time for "Red Rum­mers," as they tattoed "Flash and the Gash" by a score of 21-8. Don Strumillo shot 8-of-13 to lead the Rummers, who shot 62 percent from the field. 
Bob Karnes made all eight of his second halfshots and hit on 1 0-of-12 from the field in the game as "Big. Or­gan and Bouncing Balls" beat "Fast Eddie and Early Squirts" by 10. 
The appearances of Bob Crable, Dean Masztak, and Mike Boushka alone are enough to scare off most opponents. Yesterday, Crable and h~s "Assassins" handed a 21-10 beating on "Unidentified Flying Pen­guin Trotters." "We were a little lackadaisical," said Boushka, who was 8-of-15 and grabbed 8 rebounds, "but we'll be ready in the next rounds." 
"T. B. Express," a team featuring Irish gridders joe Howard and joe johnson, survived a scare but still beat "McNamara's Band" 21-19. 
John Lynch was 9-of-14 from the field to lead "Sam Gilbert's Coathan­ger Kids" to a 21-8 romp over "Recycled Backboard Trash." Rick Butler filled the lane all day to go 9­of-1 7 in helping "The 14th St. Aircraft Carriers to a 21-15 win over "Digger's NIT Bids." 
"Duck Williams and Dalton" lost a 21-19 heartbreaker to "Eiileen O'Reilly Lifers," who were led by Tim McClean's 11-of-25 shooting. Former "Mr. Bookstore" Bob Keenehan hit 7-of-13 shots to lead "Cooz" to a 21;7 drubbing of "Bloated Stomachs." 
Mike Welch hauled down eighteen rebounds as "Love Sauce" defeated "Restless Shade of Moose Control" by nine. Steve Vierling was 1 0-of-15 from the field as "Who the Hell are These Guys?" turned back "Beecher Tool and Die" by 21-7. 
Paul Campalone's desire wasn't lacking when he swam in St. Mary's Lake to retreive the basketball, but that didn't help "MBA Five" as they were beaten by "Nestle's Crunch and the Bloated Stomachs" 21-6. 
"Hey! Where Are All the White Women at?" beat "Proverbial Socie­tal Sponges" 21-14 behind Larry Connor's 8-of-1 5 shooting. 
A late football practice forced "Comin' At Ya" to go into a seven­minute stall as they played with three players and waited for two football players. Mike Prevoznik hit all five of his shots in a balanced at­tack as "Comin' ..." scored a 21-8 win over "Quintin Dailey and 4 Cocky Guys." 
Mike Shiner was 9-of-14 as "5 Un­chaste College Kids" whipped "Club Special" 21-8. Jim Stein's 6-of-7 shooting led "Sons of Pele" to a 21­19 triumph over "General Murphy ...." 
James Tilloten connected on his last six shots to lead "The Smooth Ones" to a 21-4 rout over "Hungry Rats on a String." Mike Mond scored nine points to boost "Geritol Express and the 4 Lads" to a win ove_r "It's a Miracle We're This Far." 
Second-round action continues today and tomorrow and the entire third round will be played on Sun­day afternoon. After Sunday, teams must win every day until the final round. 
INSIDE: 
LizFratta, p. 12 Desjardin, p. 11 






