, , ,Nestle 's-Page 2 

VOL. XVI, NO. 109 an independent srudenr newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's THURSDAY, MARCH 4, 1982 
Food sales sell Nestles iten1s despite boycott· 
ByDANKOPP 
News Staff 
Despite Notre Dame's three-year 
boycou, Nestle's products are still 
being sold in the food sales ofat least 
two dorms. 
Grace's and Pasquerilla East's food 
sales were selling Nestle's candy 
bars before the boycott. The 
manager of one will continue to 
stock it even though students voted 
64.9 pt·rcent to 3S.I percent to con­tiroue the boycou. 
Dave Krotine, the managcr of Grace Food Sales, only began stock­ing tht· candy bars thrcc wecks ago, aftcr changing wholcsalers. His pre­vious supplicr did not carry Nestlc's products. 
Krotine said hc plans to continue selling Nestle goods to Grace resi­dt·nts, noting "I don't have the right to say what people can buy. I givc the option to the consumer so he can make a pt·rsonal choice." In Tucsday's election Grace residents voted 189 to ISS to continue the campus boycou. 
Thc manager of Pasquerilla East Food Sales, Peggy McAuliffe, plans to discontinue selling the chocolate af­ter her present supply runs out. Pasquerilla East votcd 112-22 to continue tht· boycott of Nestle products. 

"If the University wants to buy tht·m from me and ceremoniously burn them, that's fine with me," she added. McAuliffe is a transfer stu­dent who claims she learned of the boycott only after she bought two boxes of Nestle's Crunch bars. "When I bought them I didn't know about the boycott. 
"I havc not bought thcm since, and I won't in the futurt·. As a managt·r. it's not my responsibility to be made aware of the boycott. It's the group's responsibility to notify 
me." 
Pasquerilla East rectress Sr. Evelyn Booms echoed McAuliffe, saying, "We're all new in the hall here. I'm sure we're inadvertantly doing a lot ofthings incorrectly until we learn how they're done around here." This women's hall is pop­ulated mainly by transfer studcnts. Sr. Booms addcd, "I hadn't been aware ofthe sales because food sales is indepcndent." 
Fr. David Noone, thc rector of Gracc, plans to let tht· students handlc thc controversy. "I think thc best way to resolve it is to Ict the stu­dents decide. The issue is a studcnt issue. The faculty and staff did not really decide about the boycott so I'm going to let the students take care of it." 
The administration's opinion, as voiced by Vice President for Student Affairs Fr. john Van Wolvlear, is the same as Fr. Noone's. "We're the ones that enti>rce it in the dining halls, the Deli, and the vending machines. It's the students who should be taking care of it in the foodsales," said Fr. Van Wolvlear. 
The volunteer group which sponsored the boycott, the World Hunger Coalition, plans to talk to the managers and try to convince them to take the candy bars off their shelves. WHC president Francis D'Eramo said, "They're not con­strained to do anything. They're in­dependent operations. We'rc planning to talk to them later on." 
Throughout the controversy Nestle's sales in Pasquerilla East plummcted, while Krotint· reported that in Grace the candy bars "sell as well as any other candy bar we car­ry." 

morality surrounding the test tube baby con­troversy were explored. (Photo byjohn Macor) 


Polish theater director arrives at ND 
By MARY BETH PORTER 
News Staff 
Professor Kazimit:rz Braun, a world-renowned Polish director and teacher, will not comment on thc Polish situation, but rather prefers to let the facts spcak for themselves, according to Professor Mitchell Lifton, director ofthe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Department of Communication an<.! Theatre. 
Braun said that he is happy to be 
Politics 

Hehirdiscusses Church concerns 
By TERESA WELCH 
Neu•sStaff 
"Thc person has a worth; indeed, a transcendent worth... the person is our clearest perception of God." Thb statement was the theme of Fr. Bryan Hehir's lecture at Carrollllalllast night. 
According to Hehir, this statement is also the basis ti>r thc Church's increasing concern with political and so· cial issucs during recent years. 

'the first step beyond human dignity is human rigbts ' 
Hehir's lecture dealt mainly with what hc called the intdll-ctual aspl'l'tS of the Church's role in society and in government. llis speech did not address specific isSUl"S. Instead. he spoke about the fundamental con­cepts of the Church. the charancristics of the Catholic Church in American society, and how these two things "tit togethl'f." 
Thc fundamental concept of Hchir's lccturc was the importance of the indivdual. This concept forn·s the Church to take a political stancc on significant issues, since "the t1rst step beyond human dignity is human rights. The Church also believes that the person is not only sacrt·d, hut the person is radically social." Thc ac­tion!> of society will, thcrdi>re, havc a profound cffect on tht· individual. according to Hehir. 
Today, Hehir nott·d, "it is thc task of the Church to stand a!> a sign and a signal to protc.:t human dignity." 
lkhir cmphasizcd that this had not always hl-cn the t'asl'. A!> late as the 19:'>O's, a priest who became in­volvnl in political issue~ was not a normal occurrence. 
The most important dcvclopllll'lll during thc paM 20 year!> i!>, according to llchir, that thc prutl'ction of human rights has hccom t l' a n·ntral part ofthe Church'~ doctrine. 
"The rclcvencc of this framework is that it gives us the tools with which to enter the public policy debate. You must have some definite convictions in orucr to deal with specitk areas of modern life," said Hehir. 
In the United States, the right of the Church to enter into politcal debates is often questioned because of the policy of separation of church and state. Hehir sees no reason for this to mean that the church should not become involved in political issues. "In terms of politi· cal theory in the American system, religious affiliations should expect neither favoritism nor discrimination. Thc separation of church and state should not have to mean the separation ofchurch and society." 
Since government affects society, and society affccts the individual, Hehir believes that "the Church has a right to speak out about certain issues, and to speak out about thc moral implications ofthosc issues." 
The Church in American society must decide whcther it should work with the statc, and "bc a complcmcnt to tht· state" or if it should be "a witness against the state." Hehir feels that thc Church is moving towards the latter. 
The Church is more likely to confront rather than contimn. Hehir pointed out that the New York Times recently stated that the Church is the principle op­ponent of American policy in El Salvador and other Latin American countries. 
lie also mentioned the stand of the church on issues such as abortion and nuclear arms as evidence of the incrcasing involvement of the Church in political issues. 
Hehir concluded the lecture by drawing attention to the problcms that the Church will have to face as it con­tinues to speak out on politic tal and social issues. These problcms should not alfcct the Church as a wholc, but it will alli:n all of its mcmbcrs. As thc Church becomcs more involvcd in politics and in social issues, it will call ib ml·mbcrs to do tht· !>amc. 
here and looking forward to working with the ND-SMC students. Professor Lifton said in a recent in­terview that although the Polish situation is "touchy," Braun felt he had an obligation to Notre Dame and also wanted to come and teach here. 
Professor Braun is a vtsttmg professor from the University of Wroclaw in Poland, and was scheduled to teach two courses and direct the spring Shakespearcan comedy play within the theatre department. However, when martial law went into effect in Poland, Braun was temporarily detained in his homeland. In fact, he arrived in the United States only a few days ago, and at Notre Dame on Fc:bruary 25th. 
When at the start of this semester it appeared Braun was not going to come, the students who were 

scheduled to take his classes were advised to drop thosc credits and take othercourses. Lifton claims that to the best ofhis knowledge "no one suffered loss of credit hours; we made: alternate provisions." 
Because of his late arrival, Braun will not teach any full-credit courses; however, other steps havc bccn taken to, according to Lifton, "givc the maximum number of stu­dents a chance to work with Braun." During the remainder of the semes­ter Braun lccturc to to theatre classes on both campust·s, as well as to thc general public. Hc is also plan­ning to attend some language classes during the semester. 
Although Braun will direct thc spring play, the play will not be the Shakespcart·an comedy as prt·vious-
See BRAUN, page 4 

Theo Professors respond to Dr. Tracy's lecture 
By TARI BROWN 
News Staff 
Pluralism and the "classic", two concepts found in Dr. David Tracy's book, The Analogical Imagination, wcrc topics ofdist·ussion in a forum yesterday morning in the library lounge. 
Stanley Haucrwas and Thomas 0'Meara, theology professors, responded to Tracy's Tuesday eve­ning lecture on his book. 
Haucrwas questioncd pluralism between communities and the un­derstanding of the religious classic in contrast to thosc ofart and music. 
O'Meara asked Tracy a threefold question about the classic: the origins of the word, Christian texts as the example of the classic and the place of religious experience as mediated through the classics. 
Responding to 0'Meara's three points tlrst. Tracy explained that the word "'classic" has Roman origins. Though problcmatic because of its clitcst connotations, he USl'S thl· model. 
Asked about the usc of the Biblical text a.~ an cxamplc of a classic, he responded that it is the dearest and most developed witness to Chris­
tianity. People and cvcnts should also be pursued as possibilities of genuine classics. 
Tracy bdicvcs that conversation is thc key model of interaction be· tween the textual intcrprctl'r and the text. Eventually, the subject mat­tcr has to takc over and mediators put asidc. 
Tracy uses the classic in his book as the modd by which he is trying to gain a hearing for Christianity in today's pluralistic society. Chirstianity, as the interpretation of a classic, offers Jesus as the classic pcrson. The pluralism of society makes the presentation of such an acccssiblc person m·cessary. 
In response to Haucrwas' ques· tions, Tracy n·markcd that the un­dcrstanding of religious classics 
See TRACY, page 6 




News Brie/§ 
By The Obsen,er and The Associated Press 
President Reagan, who built his political can:t:r on the promise of balanced budgets, said yt:sterday that large budget deficits "are a necessary t:vil in the rt:al world today." Rt:agan's com­mt:nt, in deft:nse of the record S9l.5 billion deficit projected in his proposed ! 983 budget, came as he continued his fight to stave off efforts to delay or reduce the income: tax cut he won from Congress 
last year. Since his 1966 gubernatorial campaign in California, . Reagan has advocatc:d balanced budgets. His promise of a balancc:d fedc:ral budgc:t by 1983 was a kc:ystonc: of his successful 1980 presidc:ntial campaign: But while: formulating his first budget proposal last year, Rc:agan said the federal budget would be balanced in 1984, a yc:ar later than he originally had prt:dicted. Then, last fall he acknowledged that he would be: unabk to mec:t his goal because of the dec:pening rc:cc:ssion, which drained fc:deral revenues while increasingcosts. -AP · 
President Francois Mitterrand of France:, 
declaring himself a friend of Israel, began a state visit yesterday to warm the long-troubled relations between the two countries. Mit­terrand referred pointedly to the Palestinian issue in his opening remarks at Ben-Gurion Airport, but Israel preferred to ignore policy differences and recognize that Mitterrand has moved France's Middle East policy away from what was seen here as a pro-Arab slant. In tribute to the first visit to Israel by a French head ofstate, almost the entire Israeli leadership welcomed Mitterrand at the airport. Prime Minister Menachem Begin, though still in a wheelchair recovering from a broken bone in his hip, also went to the airport in the rain. The 65-year-old French president met with Begin after a ceremonial call on State President Yitzhak Navon and a traditional jewish greeting ofbread and wine at the entrance to the Israeli capi-. tal. -AP 
An Air Force enlisted man allegedly planted a 
bomb in his wife's suitcase, and the device passed undetected 
through security at two airports as she flew from Washington to a 
Texas air base, the FBI said yesterday. Edward D. Hegarty, agent in 
charge of the Baltimore FBI bureau, said Airman I st Class Martin 
Thomas Bradley, 27, of Morningside, assigned to an organizational 
maintenance squadron at Andrews Air Force Base, was arrested 
Wednesday on two federal charges. The FBI and Air Force Office of 
Special Investigations were called in on the case after Bradley's wife, 
Staff Sgt. Mary Jo Bradky, flew to Sheppard Air Force Base in Wichita 
Falls, Texas, on Tuesday and found a bomb in her suitcase when she 
arrived, Hegarty said. Mrs. Bradky was also stationed at Andrews Air 
Force Base but had been temporarily assigned to the Texas base, the 
FBI said. -AP 
ApackedSenatewas urged yesterday to cast out one of 
its own for the first time ince the Civil War,' on ground that the 
Abscam crimc:s of Harrison A. Williams Jr., D-N.J., "sullied both his 
reputation and that ofthis institition." Williams, a 23-year veteran of 
the Senate, "traded on his office" for personal gain, declared Sen. 
Howell Heflin ofAlabama, the ranking Democrat on the Ethics Com­
mittee. "At any point in this drawn-out, sordid affair, Sen. Williams 
could have said 'Wait a minute. What you're proposing is wrong. 
This is not what I had in mind. I can't be involved in this'," Heflin said. 
"But he didn't. He stayed; he discussed; he agreed; he promised; he 
pledged -to abuse his office, his public trust for which now he must 
be expelled," Heflin said. One colleague, Assistant Democratic 
Leader Alan Cranston of California, fought for a lesser penalty, 
censure, by which Williams could escape banishment from office. ­
AP 
The pilotofan F-4 Phamom fighter-bomber was killed after he and the navigator bailed out when it caught fire yesterday on a training flight over the desert in southern Arizona, officials reported. The navigator of the two-scat plane parachuted to safety. A search team found the pilot's body several hours later ncar the plane's wrt:ckage. His name was not released pending notification of relatives. Lt. Col. David Stohler of the Indiana Air Guard at Fort Wayne, Ind., said the plane caught fire while airborne over the Gila Bend Gunnery Range and that the two bailed out a short time later. The cause of the fire was unknown. A spokeswoman for Luke Air Force Base west of Phoenix said the: navigator, Maj. Robert L. Myer, 34, of Fort Wayne, was taken to the base hospital for examination. Stohler said Myer's condition was okay. The plane was from the 163rd Tactical Fighter Squadron ofthe 122nd Tactical Fighter Wing and was with the Indiana Air Guard at Fort Wayne. Stohler said the squadron had been participating in an annual winter basing exercise at Luke since Feb. 21 and was due to return Saturday. -AP 
Doctors experimenting with antibody treat­ment, a promising technique that uses the body's natural defenses, have reported their first success in achieving a long-lasting remis­sion ofcancer. The researchers said the monoclonal antibody treat­ment was "remarkably effective" in halting a form of cancer called B-cdllymphoma in a 67-year-old man with an advanced case of the disease. The cancer attacks cells which produce antibodies. The results are the most positive yet in this new field of rt:search. However, the researchers cautioned that much more study is needed before the work has any practical usc in treating canet:r patients. "The improvement of this patient's lymphoma with monoclonal antibody administration is a single observation that must be confirmed in other patients before we can draw any conclu­sions about the effectiveness of this technique," Dr. Ronald Levy, who directed the research, said in a statement. The research was conducted at Stanford University and publisht:d in Thursday's issue: 
ofthe New Englandjournal ofMedicine. -AP 
Winter storm watch today with snow continuing, possibly heavy at times. Some freezing rain or sleet is possible late in the day. Continued windy and cold with highs in upper 20s and low 30s. Tonight snow, freezing rain and sleet diminishing. Lows in low to mid 20s. Friday windy and turning colder with occasional snow flurries. Slowly falling temperatures all day. Chances of measurable precipitation 100 percent today and 80 percent tonight. -AP 
Thursday, March 4, 1982 -page 2 

Nestle's crunched again 
Tht: vote is in, the referendum is ovt:r, and the bully has a black eye. 
The vote? A better than two-to-ont: margin. The referendum? Ofcourse, the continuation ofthe campus boycott of Nestle's products. And the bully? Nestlt:'s field personnel, who used heavy:handed tactics when dispatched to Notre Dame last wt:ek. This is a story about how a little piece of Washington-style big-time lobbying and attempted intimidation came to South Bend last wt:ek... and how its arrogance and strong­armed methods backfired. 
The background and details of this odd campaign are well known to most students. In fact, the 63 percent turnout for the Nestle's referendum and concurrent class oflicers' race towered over the student body t:lec­tions, wht:re turnout percentages dippt:d down into the forti.es. Undoubtedly, much of tht: imprt:sssive turnout can be attributed to interest in the class officers' races. It is encouraging, however, to believe that at least some substantial part of that turnout was a result of student conct:rn over the Nestle's issue. The even more encouraging result ofthe election, howt:vt:r, is the two­to-ont: dumping of Nt:stle's by the student body. 
I must admit that until two weeks ago I did not feel too strongly one way or the other about the issue. I had read extensively the pro and con argumentS-about Nestlt:'s alleged marketing of infant formula in the Third World, but the issue was so distant and tht: facts so sparse that formulating any strong allegiance to either side was difficult. At least, until the first Nestle's representative contacted 
me several weeks ago. 
"The Observer is grossly biased against the Nestle's position in its reporting," she claimed. Inaccuracies, misquotes, and half-truths were being printed in our paper, she complained, dt:manding that something must be done immediately to rectify tht: situation. A mouthful to bt: sure, but no­thing new to pt:oplt: in the newspaper business, and cer­tainly nothing new to me -until the full extent of the Nestle's involvement on campus began to become ap­part:nt. 
We invt:stigatt:d our coveragt:, reviewed t:ach article and st:t up a meeting betwet:n the Nestle's reprt:senta­tive and the reporter who wrott: the two-part series in question as well as our editorial page editor. The result was the bt:ginning of a learning proct:ss for both sides: we learned that Nestle's meant business about trying to bring The Observer over to their viewpoint, and they learned that we were determined to remain objective, and above all, reject out of hand any effort to sway our stance. 
Now that the dust has settkd, let us take a look at the question ofThe ObsenJer's objectivity. It is easy to grade yourself -the Reagan administration did so recently on the anniversary of its first year in office, and the grades were generally fodder for critics -but hard to 
THE 
NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S THEATRE PRESENTS 

THE WILD DUCK 
BY HENRIK IBSEN 
FEBRUARY 26, 27 ; MARCH 4, 5 , 6 8=00 PM WASHINGTON HALL 

FOR INFORMATION CALL 284·4176 Open~ng night patrons w~l receive one complimentary
J t1cket f.:>r each regularly purchased ticket. 

be objective whit: doing so. To my way of thinking, however, The Observer performed its mission ofobjec­tivity generally well. News Editor Kelli Flint and Editorials Page Editor Anthony Walton deserve much of the credit if you agree with that appraisal. These two editors were at the cutting edge oflast week's tightrope act. The trick was to keep our balance of objectivity despite the increasing pressure exerted by the balloon­ing presence of Nestlt: lobbyists and campus col­laborators on one hand, and the various and sundry groups opposed to Nestle on the other. 
Apparently objectivity was not enough for Nestle's. They wanted more -and what they could not con­vince The Observer to report, they attempted to buy. Buying the services oflobbyists to canvass the campus, 
buying meals for "influential" students, and buying a full-page advertise­ment in this newspaper in Monday's edition. 
Notre Dame is not an is­olated case, however. In a secret Nestle's office memorandum obtained by The Observer, a former com­pany official, E.W. Saunders, suggt:sts this strategy to cor­poration General Manager 
A. Furer: "It is clear that we have an urgent need to develop an effective counter propaganda operation, with a network of appropriate 
1Jt.NN,"R,(N/ consultants in key centres (sic), knowledgeable in the technicalities ofinfant nutri­
tion in developing countries, and with the appropriate contacts to get articles placed." Spending that kind of money and attention to influence a vote is not neces­sarily bad -if the cause is right. That brings us full circle. 
The Observer ultimately did adopt a pro-boycott edi t torial stance because we were not satisfied with Nestle's handling of the infant formula controversy ­but we weren't alone in our views. CILA, Tht: Bishop of Albany, N.Y., Campus Ministry, FLOC -and now you, the students, have concurred. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views ofthe author, and do not necessarily represent the views ofThe Obst:rvt:r or its editorial board. 

Observer notes._____ 
The Observer is always looking for new reportt:rs. Call Kelli at 239-7471 or come up to the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune in the early afternoon and ask for the day editor ifyou are interested. 


Design Editor................... Deirdre .\1urphy Design Assistants.............. ~Hkt· "Droopy" \1cC:aughcy Sioux Flynn La)•out Staff.................. \lissing (or Dead) Typesetter ........................................ AI Novas News Editor..................... Cathy Domanico Copy Editors............... Beats .\1c (SORRY!) Sports Copy Editor............. Skip Desjardin TJ•pist ...................................... )eanine Hynes Tim Nedy Tari Brown NO Oav Editor.............. Randy Goskowicz S.WC Day Editor ................ No one told me At/ Design ....................................... Bob Slota Pbotograpber............................)ohn \lacor Guest Appearances........ Susanne LaCroix The Phoning photographer Larry The \1issing Font Ray from L.A. "Since Thou workest slowly, Lord. 1 take that for my goal: procrastination in each plod ofan office worker's soul."  
The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer 1s published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary s Col· lege Subscnptlons may be purchased lor $25 per year ($1 5 per sernester) by wntlng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nght!; are reserved Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556  



The Observer Thursday, March 4, 1982 -page 3 


Schudson claims extensive political reporting needed 
By BRUCE OAKLEY 
.\y~t••ms .Huuag••r 
Claiming that coverage ofpolitics makes journalism more n·spectable, \tu:had Sdmdson last night told a group ofarea media rt'presentatives and ~tudents that more l'Xtensive n·porting of political issues is ''the task that needs domg." 
Schudson, an associate professor of sodology and of the Program on Communi<:ations at the Univt'rsity ot California. San Diego. addressed a small audience at South Bend's Ccn· tury Center as part of the "Prokssions in American History" lecture series sponsored by the Uni· versity of Notre Dame's Department of History. 
Sehudo;on traced the develop· mcnt of journalism -political jour­nalism in particular -from its inception in this country early in the I Hth century, to demonstrate what he sees as the dose and essential link bctwt·en journalism and polities. 
"Tht· only part of journalism that consistenlly commands the serious attention of the public is political journalism," Schudson said. "Thl' symbolic <:enter of the news media is polities." 
Pressed on this point in a question-and-answer session after his spt:cch, Sehudson al·knowledgcd that other areas of media coverage arc "enjoyable and valuable." He rcasst·rted his claim, however, that politics is the only area in which journalism is involved with matters nf"ultimatt' cont·ern." 
s~..·hudson·~ survey of Journalism shows a progn:ssion toward an "ideal ofobjet'livity," but with a con· currc·nt recognition of the "subjt·t·tivity of fact!>." 
A panel of local media notables questioned Sdmdson after his lecture on topics ranging from his ddinition of politics to tht· problem of implementing his proposal for in· creased political cowragc. The panel memhcrs were Jack Powers, managing editor and vice president of the South Bend Tribune; Jan \tarsh. a Tribune reporter and presi­dent of the Michiana Society of Pr•Jfcssional Journalists; Michael Collins, news director of WNDU-lV; and Robert Schmuhl, associate professor of American Studies at Notre Dame. 
Sdmdson, a graduate of Swarthmore with a Ph.D. from Har­vard, admitted that several con­siderations make implementation of his proposals difficult: whether the audit:nt~e in fact wants more politi­cal coverage; whether the media, as businesses, can afford more ex­tensive political coverage; and whether such coverage may not so diminish respect for politics and politicians as to make them unappealing. 
These arc hurdles he feels must be overcome if the media professions arc to be numbered among the "venerable professions." 
Schudson has taught at Harvard and at the University ofChicago. He is the author of Discovering the News: A Social History ofAmf!ri£·an Newspupt>rs. 
Three lectures remain in the "Professions in American History" series. The next is scheduled for March 23 in the Century Center, and focuses on the clergy. The military professions will he discussed in Lhe University's Center for Continuing Education on April I 3. and engineer­ing will be the topic at the Century Center on April 20. 

Fr. BT}•an Hehir appears to be quite con· explored the church's increasing concern with templativejustprior to his talk at Carroll Hall, St. political and social issues. See details ofthe talk Mary's College, last night. In his lecture, Fr. Hehir in story on page one. (Photo byjohn Macor) 
After criticism 

Atlanta forms new murder task force 
ATLANTA (AP)-A new scaled· down task force will be set up to in· vestigate unsolved murders, police announced yesterday after being criticized for disbanding the larger squad that investigated the slayings of28 young blacks. 
But Public Safety Commissioner Lee P. Brown said the 23 cases that were closed following the double murder conviction of Wayne B. Wil­liams will remain closed, and the special task force will be disbanded 


Info packet available 



0-Clivingrequires planning 
By ANNA MARIA PRICE 
N<?wsStuff 
Students planning to move off 
campus should become aware of the 
hazards and pitfalls of o-c life, 
according to the director o( off· 
campus housing, Brother john 
Campbell. 
Campbell's office has complied an 
information packet which provides 
students desiring to move off 
campus with advice on all aspects of 
apartment life, including leases and 
crime prevention. This packet is 
available in room 315 of the Ad· 
ministration Building. 
For the first-time tenant, the pack· et includes a renter's questionnaire and a list of all University-inspected housing to aid In the search and selection process. 
Once a dcdsion has been made to rent an apartment or house, the stu­dent should be sure the landlord­tenant agreement is equitable to both parties. 
The 0-C Housing Office provides a model rental agreement as a guideline for students to follow. This agreement, designed with the help of the Legal Aid Department, will help ensure the student's legal rights arc not violated. 
Campbell cautions students that "the dominant legal principle in In· diana is 'buyer beware', and almost all leases are designed for the benefit ofthe landlord." 
Students should note that oral agreements made before the signing ofthe lease arc not legally binding to the landlord. Campbell advises stu· dents "to specify all understandings in writing and affix them to the body of the lease prior to the signature of the contracting parties." 
The University has made available a new standard lease which an­ticipates common student-landlord problems. Campbell states that the lease contains "a provision for automatic termination ofthe lease in 
the event the student is unable t() 
fultlll his obligations because of ill­
ness or withdrawal from the Univer­
sity" which may not be included in 
other ll'ases. 
Once a student is established in an 
apartment or house, he should take 
precautions to safeguard the 
residence against crime. Campbell 
warns that standard hardware such 
as deadbolts may not be enough. 
In order to help students protect 
their homes from burglary, 
Campbell has initiated several 
crime-deterring programs. 
The first of these is "Operation 
ldcntificatiion," which involves the 
usc ofelectric engravers to mark stu­
dent possessions. The engravers are 
available at the Security Office 24 
hours a _day for a small deposit. 
For the second program,"Home Watch," the South Bend Police will conduct nine logged check.'! of the residence daily. Interested students should call 284-9201 and be prepared to give the dates the residence will be unoccupied. To further safeguard against a break-in, students should be sure the address of the house or apartment is clearly visible and should have mail and paper delivery suspended for the duration of the vacation. 
Campbell suggests that a third program,"Neighborhood Watch," be implemented in the Northeast Neighborhood. This watch requires the cooperation of all members of the community to look out for one another's houses or apartments throughout the year. 
Campbell also stated that while his programs were in effect the South Bend Police reported an over­all decrease in the number of burglaries in the Northeast Neigh· borhood. During the same time period, an overall increase in the number of burglaries was recorded for the rest of the city. 

9b am wi6k fe. IJblaiKyoBseRueRHOlOGRAPH flud kcwe appeaw! Ut Ike Pllf'M Send $4.00 and the date and photographer's name to: John Macor Photo Editor Box Q Notre Dame , Indiana 46556 Include a return address.  

as scheduled next Monday. meeting Tuesday with a group of 
The new squad, called the black ministers, who "voiced a Homicide Task Force, will replace legitimate concern" over unsolved the city's regular homicide squad killings in the city. and will occupy the storefront "The community has an attach· offices where the special task force ment to the task force," Brown said. has had its headquarters, Brown The new task force will inves­said. tigate "somewhere in the neighbor· 
The new unit will handle the hood of I 0 to 13 unsolved cascload of the regular homidde homicides at this point in time," said squad, including four unsolved homicide Lt. B.L. Neikirk. "We have slayings or disappearances of young not established any kind of pattern" blacks that were once assigned to in those deaths, he said. the special task force, Brown said. Four of the cases involve young 
The commissioner denied that his blacks whose deaths or disap· action amounts to renaming the pearanccs were once assigned to the dty's homidde squad to appease special task force. blacks angered by the closing of the 
Brown had announced Monday spedal task force. that police files on 2 3 killings of "We have never made any dcci· 
young blacks would be dosed and sion for the purposes of appease­
the task force disbanded as a result ment," he said at a news conference. 
of Williams' conviction Saturday in Brown said the decision to create 
the deaths of Nathaniel Cater, 27, the new task force resulted from a 
and)immy Ray Payne, 21. 
I

SCHOOL OF MEDICINE 
I 

• CIFAS UNIVERSITY • 
I I

·"CLASSES TAUGHT IN ENGLISH" 
The University is located in Santo Domingo, I Dominican Republic. Our Medical Program is tailored 
I

after the traditional U.S. Model of Medical Education and is fully accredited. I 
OPENINGS AVAILABLE 
I

"Our school is listed in Vol. 35, No. 4 of the WHO chronicle published by the World Health Organization." I 
For More lnfornli•tlon ;..." ,....,,,.~~.cateon fonn ph·il'iof' wntu tu I 
CIFAS UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF MEDICINE I Of AN OF ADMISSIONS 
I 

12820 WHITTIER BlVD. SUITE. 7!1 • WHIT Tl! H. C Allf 90b0] 
I 




·-----------------~--· 
r·······-o·ELiVE.rfi'N'Gi·~·N·orRfDAME 
and SAINT MARY'S GoCifather's Pizza® 
Medium pepperoni, sausage, or combo and receiue quiclzer ser"ice. 
......, .......~,enune.....HII~'~'-!"----'­
Driver has fresh pizza for sale on truck. 
Mon.-Thurs. and Sun. 5 PM· 10:30 PM Fri. and Sat. 5'PM -12:30 AM 
''u••u··~•·•"•••=uou·•ueeu"•••••=ueuoueerue·•nr••·•.,u•--•=.w•••----~~-----------.~--·-------· 

The Observer Thursday, March 4, 1982 -page 4 

Almost appearing as if it were the street light's source of il­lumination, the sun bas been overbearingto the eye lately with its constant reflections off the snow that remains on the ground. (Photo byjohn Macor) 

Off-Campus & The Senior Class Present 
MARCH COMES in LIKE a LION at Steak & Ale 

Come join us tonight at Steak & A"lefrom 10:30 to 2:30pm 

(74 beers to graduation) 






Career week supports exploration 
By GREG O'MEARA 
Student Government Publicity Director 

Bill Pfeiffer's Third World Con­oerns Commission presented Career Exploration Week, Feb. 8-12. During these five days, Student Government worked to increase student and faculty awareness of the problems f~tcing underdeveloped countries. This week also provided the oppor­tunity for students to investigate careers which express what Fr. Hes­burgh calls "the response of service to one's neighbor." 
Peace Core Personnel Director Clovia Sloan started the project with a discussion/lecture on Monday. She explained the sort of activity one may expect as a volunteer and answered questions pertaining to Peace Corps applications and problems in the Third World. 
On Tues., Feb. 9, the commission sponsored two films produced by the United Nations which addressed the issues of starvation and over­population. The films, Food or Famine and Secret Hunger; portrayed a world far removed from our experience which motivated S•~rious considerations of our First World responsibility to under­developed nations. 
During Career Exploration Day on Wednesday, many students spoke with representatives from over twenty service organizations including the Holy Cross Associates and the Maryknoll Missioners. Later that day, Ambassador Donald F. McHenry, former U.S. delegate to the United Nations from 1979 until 
1981, lectured on the topic "A 
World View: The Third World." 
McHenry addressed the increasing 
tension in less developed countries 
and maintained that the possibilities 
fOr easing these problems need full 
commitment from the U.S. 
He criticized the tendency of today's leaders, including President Reagan, to romanticize our early his­tory, and pointed out that the U.S. would have gotten no where with­out aid from other nations. When asked about the Reagan administra­tion's policy toward El Salvador, the Ambassador stated, "I am not opposed to giving aid; however, it has to be the right kind of aid, and I cere hope that some who saw the don't believe that giving guns is the films or heard the lectures may one right kind ofaid." day help those less fortunate." 
In addition to further films and This past week, the Commission speakers during the week, the Third co-sponsored author Penny Ler­World Concerns Commission noux who spoke on the need for sponsored the highly acclaimed responsible U.S. journalism in Latin film, Five Minutes to Midnight. This America. Ms. Lernoux stressed the production addresses the urgent important role we have in helping situation of gross inequities in food, underdeveloped nations.· Later in medical care, education, and dis-March, international business ex­tribution of wealth. The film points pert Victor Palmieri will speak on out that what may seem basic the refugee situation which plagues knowledge or unnecessary income the Third World. to someone in developed countries Senior Brian Ebert sums it up in may mean survival to one of the his statement on the role of the world's poor. Christian in our world, "It's not our 
Pfeiffer states that "All in all, the choice to help those less fortunate; week was a big success. It is my sin-it's our duty." 

Committee inaugurates seriesonnuclear arms 
By MARK WORSCHEH 
Staff Reporter 
The newly-formed justice and World Committee at Saint Mary's in­augurated their "Preparing For Peace" series last Friday and Satur­day nights, holding a series of workshops and discussions on the issue of nuclear arms. 
According to Sister Mary Turgi, the committee organized last December. Turgi said it was because of the focus of the Catholic Church on the arms issue_ that the commit­tee chose that topic. 
"What we want to do is present information to people in hope that they will make a decision on the arms issue. Personally, each of us is committed to disarmament," said Turgi. 
The series opened Friday night with a program entitled "Peace Be With You." Bro. Joseph Izzo, a staff member of the Quixote Center in Washington, D.C., led a discussion of arms on both a "personal and scrip­tural level," said Turgi. 
On Saturday, the committee showed and discussed the film "War without Winners." That evening, in another discussion, the students 
~---------------------------------------y
"MEET YOUR MAJOR" SCHEDULE I 
I 

l~odern and Classical Library Lounge 4:30 F'MI 
Languages 1 Computer Applications Room 104 O'Shag.7:00 PMI ~"rt Room 219 O'Shag.7:BP PMI J~rts & Letters Program Room 331 0 • Shag. · 1 for Administrators (ALPAJ 0 o I 
.'() I 

l~usic Room 115 Crowleys:H~?~ 1 J\LPr~professional(ALPP)Room 331 O'Shag. 8:30PM IJ~L Engineering (AE) Room 331 O.'Shag. 9:00 Pf1



····--------------------------------------· 

"linked peace with justice and looked at El Salvador" in order to draw some conclusions about the 
meetings, according to Turgi. "We concluded that there can be no peace until the basic issues ofjustice 
are considered," she said. 
Turgi commented that she hopes for individual action on the arms issue now, but she feels that the stu­dents involved in the "Preparing For Peace" will form a cohesive unit by the end ofthe month. 
The committee plans to present "The Last Slide Show" to all Saint Mary's dorms on the 23, 24, and 25th of March. The twen_ty minute presentation will also deal with the arms issue. 
In addition, Bishop Leroy Mat­theisen ofAmarillo, Texas, will be on campus April 1 to present a state­ment on disarmament. Mattheisen has earned fame as an outspoken critic ofarms and has urged his paris­hioners to quit working for the arms plants in the Amarillo area. 
Joining Bishop Mattheisen will be Matthew Murphy of the State Department who also will present a statement. Turgi says that the event will not be a debate. A question and answer session will follow the two statements. The program will be at 8 pm in Carroll Hall. 
.. . Braun 
continuedfrom page 1 
ly scheduled. Instead he will direct a Polish play The Card Index, by Tadeusz Rozewicz. The theatre department felt that the Polish play would give the students as well as the public an opportunity to expand their knowledge of the Polish people and their literature. Braun has directed this play in the past at the Contemporary Theatre, the theatre at the University of Wrodaw, and at the University of Connecticut. 
Professor Braun is a distinguished member in his field. He_ holds doc­torate degrees in both philosophy and the fine arts, and is the general manager and artistic director of the Contemporary Theatre. He and his troupes have performed all over Europe, including at the Dublin Theatrical Festival. Braun has writ­ten five books and countless articles and has directed over I00 theatre and television productions. In fact, last November Braun was named by the Japan Foundation as Best Theatrical Director of the Year. 
Despite all the diftkulties surrounding Braun's arrival to Notn:' Dame, Lifton feels he will be a ddlnite asset to the theatre depart­ment as well as to students in general. 

Thursday, March 4, 1982-page 5
Editorials 
Eisenhower model works 
I have not, for a while, expressed publicly my gratitude to those who send responses to my writings. \1ost want to argue. and some argue well.. so that I am corrected or educated. The most welcome letters send in­formation that is new, or at least new 
tome. 
Two recent examples have to do with the organizaton of John Ken­nedy's White House. I wrote recent­ly that Kennedy, in reaction to the tidy staff system of his ppredecessor, tried to bring creative disorder to the White House. There is doubt about the creativity, but none at all about the disorder, which dismayed some of Kennedy's most loyal aides. 
Two people who felt something of that dismay sent me fresh examples of the disorder. The first correspon­dent is Orren Beaty, who served as assistant to Stewart Udall when he was Kennedy's senetary of the inte­rior. Mr. Beaty says he can vouch for the accuracy of a quotation I used from Theodore Sorenson, one claim­ing that no decisions of importance were ever made at Kennedy's Cabinet meetings. 
Mr. Beaty recalled that Fred Dut­ton was first deputed to brief Cabinet staffs on the results of Cabinet meetings, so Beaty went to one such meeting. But no more. "There may have been more, but the idea was quickly discarded." You cannot report on results that do not exist. 
Kennnedy not only made no deci­sions with his Cabinet, he did not warn them of decisions that had been made. Secretary Udall was cleared by the White House to appear on "Meet the Press." The network people came to the Department of In­terior on Friday to discuss possible areas of 4ucstioning. The news of the Bay of Pigs had already broken. and Secretary Udall had not been warned; so he had to improvise a loyal defense of the president. He blamed· Eisenhower for the plan -a position the president had to disown. Mr. Beaty gives a picture of Cabinet of­ficers kept in the dark, ignored and undercut. In short, a picture ofdisor­der without creativity. 
The second letter comes from Donald Ritchie, of the United States Senate Historical Office. Ritchie wrote a biography of James M. Landis, the law professor and Ken­nedy friend who was brought to Washington to organize regulatory reform. According to Ritchie's inter­views with Landis, it was hard to or­ganize anything because no one knew what anyone else was up to. Landis had immediate access to the president because of old family ties, and the hub-spokes argument of the Kennedy system was supposed to make that access the secret of ef­ticicncy. But Kennedy often did not know or say what others could have told Landis and it was hard to get in­formation from them. So in the mat­ter of regulatory reform (a streamlining effort still being made), there was no staffcoordination and in Ritchie's words, the White House "suffered a series of embarrassing congressional rejections.'' 
Landis told Ritchie "that Kennedy had simply extended his congres­sional staff relations to his White House staff. Until 1961 T Kennedy's only administrative experience was with his small, personal staff, each member with his own spcciic office 

or legislative responsibilities." This military experience. But that proved is very far from the Kennedy myth, a better model than the office of the 
which has Kennedy adopting his staff absentee senator from Massachu­system from Franklin Roosevelt. It setts. Every newly elected president
seems, instead, that hl! took his plan thinks he can reorganize the White
from his congressional office -an House to fit his own model with a tri­
office not known, on the Hill. for umvirate of partial managers. That
energy or cffh.:iency. Kennedy simp­system is breaking down (or perhaps,
ly organized by inertia -he kept on having one of the tripod's legs
doing what he had been doing. replaced-Clark in for \1eese). The
President Eisenhower, too, kept on doing what he had been doing. His 
odd thing is that most White House staff system was based on his 
people usc the Kennedy rhetoric for 

Garry Wills 
Outrider 
this exercise, rather than his Eisen­hower example, though results ~houiJ make clear the latter's super­
JOnty. 

Media slandering the President 
If you have been out of the country the poor. for a few weeks, you will have for­NBC had some nice lines there to gotten that some of the media choose from, but my favoric was the proceed as though thcir national one about how people earning sponsors were the Democratic Na­$10,000 per year arc going to endure tional Committee. Certainly. judging a greater diminuition of benefits than from a single broadcast, one would those earning $!!0,000 a year. How gucss that the Democrats have secret­much more? Three times. ly purchased NBC, if Miss Jessica An outrage. Savitch, the anchorlady last Saturday Sometimes one has the feeling that night, is an example. There cannot it is unconstitutional to think when have been a higher congestion of im­one listens to the evening news, but plausabilities and distortions than at the risk ofcommitting that offense, those she rclayed in two or three one might ask: Why isn't it not 3 to I. minutes devoted to the theme of how. hut I00 to 17 '? Or I.000 to I'! Be­under Reagan, the rich arc exploiting cause we should, really, Democrats 
P.O.BoxQ Cardinals do not leave 
Dear Editor South Bend heralds the coming of 
Had thl! Observn directed but a spring. Cardinals do not leave this pittance of its annual budget toward area Juring the winter. But take thl! fcl!ding of our feathered fril!nds heart. That is not their only outside the windows of your offices, peculiarity. They arc also rumored to you would have known enough to be monogamous. span: the campus the cruelty of your illusion. in TuesJay·s pages Thomas Jemidity (Fcb.l6), that the cardin.tl's return to 
Dept. of English 

and Republicans alike, agree on the proposition that people making $!!0,000 per year shouldn't receive any welfare measures from the tax­payer. 
As to the reduction in welfare aid to the $10,000 family, one would need to know just what form it took before becoming indignant. lffor in­stance, that loss was $100 worth of food stamps, but was offset by an in­crease of $350 in purchasing power due to a slowdown on inflation, why that should be OK, shouldn't it'! 
Then Miss Savitch announced that tax breaks for a family earning $10,000 amounted to $120, while tax . breaks for a person earning $80,000 came to $15,000. If you stare at those figures for a mere 30 seconds or so. you find, don't you, that it's as though someone had dropped a cake of mud in your inbuilt little computer (we all have these. and they come in very handy). Surely that can't be ex­actly right? 
So the next morning you look at the entire report. and docs it tell you that you will receive $15,000 tax relief at $80,000'? No, it doesn't. It says that the AVERAGE tax relief to be received by everyone receiving $80,000 or more will come to $15,000. Well. no. Next year? No. 
The third year. 
What woould a single person ear­ning $80.000 be paying in taxes? Answer: $23.470. So what is his net relief? Answer: About 15 percent. Is that scandalous? I don't think so. which doesn't matter. What docs matter is that probably NBC's lis­teners wouldn't think so either if they were given a chance to have the facts, other than as distorted by Miss Savitch and NBC's news depart­mcnt. 
But so it goes. I was in Kansas City the other Jay and read a report by one Michael Kiii an of Knight­Riddcr newspapers. and I thought for a while he was writing about Mussolini; but no. it was of course Reagan, the man who carried 44 states of the Union at the last election by saying he would do what he is now doing -except for balancing the budget; which if he did balance it, by reducing federal expenditures, the gentlepersons of Kansas City would be reading from Mr. Kilian not a description of Mussolini, but of Hit­ler. 
Here is his lead: "The Republican Party must come to realize that it faces a threat in the Reagan Revolu­tion far greater than the Watergate debacles annd possibly as devastat-
William hckley 
On the Right 
ing as 'the Hoover Depression.' The radical changes and assaults upon in­stitutions, the hard eeonoic times, perceived cruelty and ideological thuggery that have come to charac­terize this nominally Republican and supposedly conservative administra­tion have alienated,. offended or frightened Americans by the mil­lions. The prospect is for a sound GOP thrashing this November and a Republican catastrophe in 1984.'' 
Perceived cruelty ad ideological thuggery, wow. The last time a major political pany faced catastrophe was the Democrats in 1980. One wonders what Mr. Killian or Miss Savitch diagnosed as the cause of it? There's a lot of bad news in the world, but the good news is that, by and large, for all their lapses and infidelities, the American people are so very much smaner than the hysterical types who try to tell them what to think. 


Editorial Hoard
=='rhelJbset:Ver 
t:clilor·in·Chief ............................. .john McGrath 
Founded November 3, 1966 
E>.:ecutiz'e News Editor.... .............. Kdli flint .~ports Editor.............................. Skip Desjardir. 
The ObJerve' is · 1 independent newspaper published by the students of t~e .Veu·s t:ditor ............................. l>avid Ri<:kahaugh Photo Editor ....................................... ..John Macor University of Notre · Jame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessanly S.WC J::.wcutil'e Editor........... Mary Agn_!:s Carq J::ditr~rials f."d/lor ...................... ,Anthonv Walton reflect the policies or the administration of either. ins~itution. The news i~ ~eport­.\~WC .Veu•s Editor......................Cathy Domanico Features Editor .........................&rc:r,ory Swic:rcz ed as accurately and .1s objectively as possible. Edtt<;>r~als represent the opm10~ of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opm10ns and letters are th_e vtews Department Managers of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the commumty, and 
Business .Wmwger ........................ Rich Coppola Production Manager................... Michacl Monk 
the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, ii encounged. 
Conlroller .............................................)oc: ,\llulflur Circulation Manager .............Tom Maclennan Adz,ertising :\Janager ....................... Chris Owen -~vstems Manager ...........................Bruce: Oakley
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
,------------­
r The Observer Thursday, March 4, 1982 -page 6 
···-------~--~-­
·---··-----··-----­
Increased quality 
Graduate enrollment rises 

Notre Dame's post-graduate en­rollment has shown modest growth while emphasizing increased quality of students, Robert G. Gordon, vice president for advanced studies, reported to the university's Graduate Council 
The University recorded a 2.7 per­cent increase in overall enrollment, from 1,193in 1980to 1,224in 1981, at a time when nationally there was a 
1.1 percent decline. Notre Dame's 1981 first-year graduate enrollment was up 1.5 percent. 
The number of applicants to the Graduate School rose by ll percent ~er 1980, Gordon said, but in an ef­fort to improve quality, only 51 per­cent were accepted in I981, versus 60 percent in 1980. Acceptances by students were up, 74 percent to 66 percent. 
The totals for the four divisions of the Graduate School are as follows: 410 enrolled in humanities, 22 in science, 162 in engineering, and 252 in social sciences. Enrollment in­creased in all divisions except social sciences. 
Eighteen and one-half percent of Graduate School enrollment con­sists of foreign students, with the most in engineering. The 4 percent foreign student population in graduate engineering is exactly the national average. 
In graduate student aid, 87 per­cent of the degree-seeking students 

iller times==~gb Ufe® 
9a-rne old story.
These coJl~qe 9~~~ 
love uoc..( a-r'n1qHt8?tci ~oss ~o~ out 
inthe mot"nin9. 
/ 


received an average support of 
S5,709 in tuition and/or stipend. 
In the calendar year 1981, 63 doc­torates and 253 master's degrees were awarded in the Graduate School. Despite cutbacks in federal funding and a poor job market for graduates in the humanities and so­cial sciences, Gordon said that, given the resources, Notre Dame's graduate programs have "a bright future" and "can compete nationally in many disciplines." 
...Tracy 
continuedfrom page 1 
differs from that of other areas be­cause they are expressions of God by the power ofGod. 
When questioned whether the religious classic should involve more of the self, he responded that there is a possible range of responses. 
"As long as the claim to attention is allowed, it can have a spectrum of responses," he said, ranging from the "shock of recognition" due to per­sonal experience to "resonance." 
Hauerwas posed the question of whether the demand for public criteria was open to anyone. Tracy responded that it is the job of the fundamental theologian to chal­lenge the naive nun-traditional in­terpretations. 
He has a set of demands he calls 
the "criteria of reladve adequacy" 
which has to be found. The develop­
ment ofcriteria continues as long as 
pluralism exbts in the self of the in­
terpreter as well as in the text and 
community. 
Observer promotes reporters 
The Observer is pleased to an­nounce the following News Depart­ment promotions: to Staff Reporter -junior Michele Dietz and fresh­men Mark Worscheh and Vic Sciulli; to Senior Staff Reporter -junior Sonya Stinson, sophomores Cecilia Lucero and Tim Petters, and fresh­men Kathleen Doyle and Mike Lepre. 
INTERNATIONAL CAREER? 

A representative will be on the campus THURSDAY l'1ARCH 11, 1982 to discuss qualifications for advanced study at AMERICAN GRADUATE SCHOOL and job opportunities in the field of 
INTERNATIONAl MANAGEMEN 
Interviews may be scheduled at 
PLACEMENT OFFICE 
AMERICAN GRADUATE SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT Thunderbird Campu5 Glendale, Arizona 85306 

Business & Technology_Thu_rsda_y,M_arch-4,19-82_Pa_ge
7 


A/read)' in use j(Jr 1)/Jer tu•o months, the Stepan Cbemica/ building has pnwided many res('arcb groups tl'ith much needed space. Pictured in the 
Caribbean econ prof 
Local expert analyzes Reagan plan 
By MICHAEL WILKINS 
SlajfRlj}()r/er 
"Part of th~· instability of th~· ( :aribbcan Basin today stnns from till' s~·vcn· economic imbalance and inequalitk~ which ar~· a produn of pa~t inve~tmcnt strategies very ~imilar to the on~-~ proposed by l'r~l'idnlt lkagan," a~-conling to Jerome 1.. :\kEiroy, visiting A~­~ociate l'rot~-s~or ofeconomics. 
The~~-proposnl stratcgks, which l'r~·si~knt Regan released in a speech to the Organization of Anll'ril'an Statl-~ a~ part of his plan for r~·devdoping the Caribbean-Central American region, would only add to till' curn·nt probkm~ of thos~· region~ if left in its current state, .\1cElroy remarked. 
In his speech, Reagan said he would do "whatever is prudent and nnTssary" to protect United States ~~-l·urity int~·rests in the Caribbean Basin, induding a program of trade, aid, and investment for the cconomi­l'ally troubled area. 
Reagan's plan will be based on a proposal t(>r free trade for Caribbean products exported to the United States. as well as an appropriation of 
S3';0 million to assist Caribbean Basin countries in a great deal of economic difficulty. 
McElroy, who taught for three years in Helice, ncar Mexico, and eight years at the College of the Vir­gin Island~ before coming to Notre Dame, analyzed Regan's Caribbean plan. 
McElroy feels that the plan is an intl'rnational application of Rq~anomics, a way to strenghtcn the private sector throughout the Carib­bean. lie said that Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, the two most af­fluent regions of the Caribbean, arc being us~·d as reasons to implement the policy throughout the Carih'­b~·an Basin. 
"To the administration, they represent showcases of this private sector economy. They have had a tn:mendou~ inflow ofU.S. private in­vestment. access to U.S. markets for exports, and received regular and Iargl' intlows of aid," McElroy noted. Regan's plan can be broken down into an ~·conomic policy "with a tripod of sp~·citk policies," accord­ing to McElroy. Thl.' tlrst part of th~· policy dcab with tradl·. Reagan has cn·atcd a frn· trade zone for the ( :aribiKan basin which would allow export~ from the Caribh~·an to enter the United Stall'S duty free, hut with l'Xl'lllptions of rcxtik~. appard, and to ~Oilll' l'Xll'nt, ~ugar. The good~ 
Area affected by proposed Caribbean initiative. 
The nations for which President Reagan has proposed neu• economic policies are: Haiti, The Dominican Republic, Belize, Guatamala. Honduras, Guyana, Suriname, and The Bahamas. Grenada and Nicaragua tl'i/1 not be included unless the)' change theirpolicies. 
coming into the U.S. would be primarily agricultural goods, light manufacturing products, or petrolt:um products. 
The second aspect of the plan deals with bilateral investment treaties (BIT's). The Reagan ad­ministration proposes to negotiate, on a country by country basis, BIT's with the Caribbean Basin countries in order to provide a consistent and favorable investment climate, and to reduce economic uncertainty with­in those countries. 
The last section of the plan in­volvcs economic aid and technological assistance to these countries. This aid would be ad­ministi.:rcd primarily to "strengthen the physical infastructure of selected countries," McElroy noted. 
The tirst p~oblt:m McElroy sees with Reagan·~ plan is that the Puerto Rico-Virgin Islands model that Reagan has ust'd as a basis for the plan may not b~· applicahk because of certain a~pects Jacking in the Caribbean Basin that arc presl'nt in hoth Puerto Rko and the Virgin Is­lands. 
Re~idents of 1he Basin do not have the frtTdom ,, l emmigrate to the llnitn.l States ur enjoy the benefits of a national we I fare system, both of which exist iu Puerto Rico and the Virgin Island~ 

McElroy fears that nothing in the present plan shows that the priorities ofthe Caribbean Basin will actually be met. The Basin must be involved in a plan that produt.·es greater participation of low income groups in economic progress, as well as basic needs of the com­munities such as housing, sanitation, education, and medical access. Such a plan should abo help in the ad­vancement of the Caribbean development hank, the Caribbean common market, and a regional tourism market that would provide direct !lights from the United States to the Caribbean. 
Reagan's motivation for the imro­duction ofsuch a plan appears to be more politically influenced than economically. "New Cubas will arise from the ruins of today's conflicts," unlt:ss the U.S. docs not quickly act for the support of freedom in these countries, Reagan said in his speech. 
However, .\1cElroy sees a great deal of contlict stemming from that kind of thinking. "The administra­tion's mot Iivation is not strong enough to tackk long tt-rm problems," McElroy stated. "We must not polarize this region by for­cing the nations to become U.S. allies at the cost of losing the friendship of their neighbors who m<IY he felt'S of the United Stall's." 
Economic Update 
Sales ofnew houses in the United States fell sharply inJanuary, hitting the second-lowest rate in at kast two decades and halting a modest three-month housing recovery, government figures indicated Tuesday. Rising interest rates got most ofthe blame as they did during the worst months of 1981, one ofhousing's bleakest years ever. New single -family home saks dropped 22.8 percent below December's rate, according to a report from the Commerce Depart­ment and Department of Housing and Urban Development. Homes were sold at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 353,000 during the month. Only the 33';,000 rate oflast September was worse in the 20 years the government has been keeping such figures. 
Lowering prices, that's the goal of The Atlantic Rich­field Company which said today that it will stop accepting purchases on its credit cards on April I ';th. Arco, with 3 million accounts, ranks seventh among the nation's gasoline purveyors in numhlT of credit card accounts. Amoco, with 7 million accounts., and Exxon, with 6. '; million, head th~· Jist. In doing away with credit card sales, the na­tion's l.'ighth -largl·st gasoline retailer said it will be able to cut its wholesale price to distributors and dt·alers by nl·arly 3 cents a gallon. That is the amount that the company said its 3 million credit cards have been costing to service. 
A top Petagon officialsays leftist -ruled Grcnada, a tiny Caribbean island nation, "has hl'come an air base available to the Soviet Union." !'red C. lklc, undcrsn·rctary ofdefenst· for policy, made that cryptic remark to the Senate Armed Services Committee in listing what he said were Soviet gains around the world. Although lklc did not elaborate in his recent t~·stimony, it was karned that a nl.'w, secret U.S. intelligence report quotes (irenada's minister of na­tional mobilization as saying a big new airfield -being built with major Cuban hdp -would he used by Soviet and Cuban planes. 
The Dowjonesaverag~· of .~o industrials fell 1o.66 to HI';, 16. yesterday. lkclincs held a 2-1 nlg~· on advann·s at the New York Stock Exchangl'. Big Board volume totakd 70.2_>, million shares, the eight largest total on record, against 6.~.80 million Tues­day. Tlw NYSE's composit~· inJ~·x lost 1.00 to (H.I·l. At th~· Am~-rican Stock Exchange, the market valul.' index was otf8.2--1 at 260.21. 

Give yourself credit for an exciting summer this year at 
Northwestern University. Earn credits in courses from introductory to advanced -from pre med to the performing arts. You can even earn a full years' cr~it in just 8 weeks this summer in one of our intensive foreign language, mathematics or science programs. 
And while you're catching up or getting ahead, you can explore the big city sights of Chicago. It's just minutes away. Or sail and windsurf right off our lakefront campus: Start planning for summer now. Write or call for • your free course bulletin. And begin taking credit for a great summer today. 
Contact: Summer Session • 2003 Sheridan Road 
Evanston, Illinois 60201 • (312) 492-5250 Outside of Illinois, call Toll-Free during normal business hours, Monday-Friday. 
1-800-323-1225 
\ 
/\~ 

___,.,__...,..._____________:___________..:!..._________________________... 
SportS Bri~h 
Thursday, March 4, 1982 -page 8 

::~B~y~Th~e~O~b~s~e=r~v~e=r~a~n~d;;Th::e~A~s~s:o:c7ia~t:e=d~P~r:e:s:s::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
Michigan basketball tickets are still available at the second floor ticket office at the ACC. The game will be held in the Silverdome in Pontiac, Mich., on Sunday, March 7. Tickets are priced at ll4 and $6. -The Observer 
CCHA playofftickets are still on sale today at the Gate 10 box office of the ACC. There are plenty of tickets remaining. The ~a?Ies, with Notre Dame playing host to Michigan, will be played Fnday and Saturday night, March 5-6. Face-off both nights will be at 
y:30 p.m. Student seasqn ticket holders have first priority in purchas­mg playoff tickets. Students who present the face of their season coupon book with their ID card will be able to purchase tickets in Section 8. All other Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students may pur­chase playoff tickets at the same time and place. There is a limit of one student ticket per game, for personal use, and at the student price of $3. Additional tickets may be purchased for $4. ID must be presented at the time of purchase, and one student may present no more than four I D's. -The Observer 
The Varsity Crowd will sponsor a 1950's dance con­tesll at halftime of this Saturday's women's basketball game between Notre Dame and Michigan State. First prize will be a dinnerfor two at Steak & Ale. Second prize will be two Farrell's gift certificates. Registration for participants will begin at the ACC at 2 p.m. and con­tinue through the end of the first half. The game, which is the final regular-season contest for the Fighting Irish, will begin at 1:30 p.m. 
-The Observer 

lnterhall hockey regular season ends tonight with Grace meeting Stanford at 10:15, followed by Off-Campus against Keenan at 11:30, in the ACC. Playoffs will begin next week. -The Observer 
Bookstore Basketball is just around the corner. Re:gistration will be held on Wednesday, March 10 (Austin Carr's birthday), from 6 to 8 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Each team must specify two captains. Registration fee is 113.00. -The Observer 

Racquetball pairings 
NOTE: Results must be reported to the NVA offtce by the followtng Wednesday at 1 p.m. If your name IS not listed, you have a bye and should look for your new patnng the fol/ow1ng week. 
Men's Doubles Jensen (7838)/Kahale (7838) v. Power (3306)/Simpson (3370) Power (1654)/Rigall (6764) v. O'Brien (1248)/Hatfield (1171) Yordy (3439)/Maurer (3414) v. Pierce (1424)/Pian (1432) Meakin (8694)/King (1688) v. Caterlne (1621)/0IIver (6801) Kalvach/Packo (1688) v. Burton (8284)/Bruggeman (8292) 
Women's Doubles Deleone (795S,oDrancik (2914) v. Gallagher (4312)<oGallagher (6848) Mullen (8 t 43)'oSmt!h v. Gorskt ( 1 262)<oSchmid (3352) 
See INTERHALL, page 9 

Classifieds  The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday. 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However, classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid. either in person or through the mail.  
PLEASE! NEED 2 RIDES TO LOUIS· VILLE. CALL 1031. THANK YOU! ································································.____NO_T_IC_Es_..ll~_FO_R_R_EN_T___...J NEED RIDE TO ROCrtESTER NY FOR BREAK CAN LEAVE :l-11 CALL PAUL 1037 ························ ......................... .............. ················································ It you missed ANN BOURJAILY. you·re a FOUR AND FIVE BEDROOM HOUSES DESPERATELY NEED 1·2 RIDERS TO fool. but don't be a complete idtot. .see AVAILABLE FOR NEXT SCHOOL TAMPA, FL AREA FOR BREAK. WILL PAT ANDREWS TONIGHT. at 8 p.m. in YEAR. CALL 234-9364. LEAVE ON THURSDAY. MARCH 11. SMC's Little Theatre, Moreau Hall. Get a CALL SAM AT 8708 OH AT 8712 clue and BE THERE. FURNISHED HOMES GOOD AREA ······························································· WALK TO NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YR HELP! Need 1·3 rides toN Florida o~er DO YOU NEED A GOOD HAIRCUT? 277-3604 break. Rose 7978 Ctndy 7966 GUYS $4, GIRLS $6 CALL MICHOLE AT 7951 Student houstng-clean, safe. $1 00/mo. NEED. Rid~· i~· c~~~~~~~~~~Ri··~;~~·;~; 291-1405. break. Will Share Expenses. Please Call DISCUSS HOW CAREERS. MARRIAGE SMC4785. AND FAMILY CAN BE Be your own boss. Comfortable 5 ································································ COMBINED ATTEND TWO bedroom. completely furmshed house for Desperately need nde to Phila. for sringCAREER FAMILIES... THURSDAY AT 5 or 6. Close to campus. Phone 288-3942. break.ask for Gary or Chris at 3223. 6.30 IN THE STUDENT AFFAIRS CON· ................................................................ FERENCE ROOM. LE MANS HALL. RIDE NEEDED FOR SPRING BREAK SMC. TO BALTIMORE. WASHINGTON D.C. ARE,A CAN LEAVE THURSDAY. WILLKAREN MIEDLAR SHARE COSTS. CALL DAVE 8795 KAREN MIEDLAR WANTED ····························································· KAREN MIEDLAR Need rides for 2 to 4 to ST. PETE FL orLIVE AND IN­anywhere close. Call Nancy at 3212 orSEMINAR ...TODAY ...12:15 IN THE Need nde to Houston Texas. for spnng Carrie at 6661. SMC SCIENCE HALL break. If you are headed in that direction please call Ttmo at 1782. N~~;;·;;;;~·i~N'OiirH JEiisE:v·;~;i;;~~,;Experienced typtst will do typtng. Please Share$$. Brian 3648 call287·51 62. Desperately need a ride for two people to Northern Jersey, nght off Route 80. Will N~~;;···~·· ;ide .. ta .. oE:rRoi:r···~;~~·· this GOT A CAR FOR SPRING share the usual. Call Mtke at 1181. weekend!! March 5-7 Please call Meghan BREAK/GRADUATION? 75 WGN 284-4796LOADED! ONLY 1 100.00 OR BEST OF· NEED A RIDE TO JACKSON, MISSIS.. ............................................................ FER. .CALL MARILYN OR DUANE AF· SIPPI FOR SPRING BREAK. CALL Need nders to New Jersey that can leaveTEA 6:00 AT 684-3539 A. M.P. at 7933. Tues. March 9. Call Kevin at 1478 Need ndes for 2 to Ptttsburgh tor spring A/DE NEEDED to Datlas.TX or NICE GIRL DESPEHATEL.Y NEEDSbreak. Call 1 1 71. Shreveport. LA Please call289-8955 RIDE WEDNESDAY 3·10 TO EXIT 11 ALONG OHIO TURNPIKE. CALL ARE YOU PLANNING TO LIVE IN LUS· NANCY AT 1 282 · TH~,NX! CIOUS. TROPICAL T ANT ALl ZING SOUTH BEND THIS SUMMER? rMLOST/FOUND RIDE NEEDED TO MPLS (EDINA) CAN LOOKING FOR ONE FEMALE LEAVE THURSDAY MARCH 11 IF YOU ROOMMATE TO SHARE A CAMPUS CAN HELP-CALLCATHY AT2955 VIEW APT. FROM JUNE TO AUG. CALL FOUND $40.00 on Fnday Feb. 12. Call PATTI AT 283-8472. RENT IS ONLY Need nde or nd~;~ i~ and ir~~ B~ff~lo thts 38281o clatm. $145AMONTH. weekend, March 5th, Call Laura 4673. SMC. LOST BLUE LOOSLEAF FOLDER IN HELP!! THREE PALE·FACED FEMALES GALVIN AUDITORIUM ON 2/23 AFTER WILL BE ON THE WARPATH IF THEY Need Rtders Dallas. Au;h~ Sp;1~9 El;~~k.SAHLINS LECTURE. CONTAINED DON'T GET A RIDE TO TAMPA. Call Dan 272· 1 684. NOTEBOOK AND PHOTO NEGATIVES. FLORIDA FOR BREAK. THEYU CALL BOB AT 3260. MATERIAL IS IM· SHARE DRIVING AND EXPENSES. SO NEED RtoE TO & FRoM DErRorr Fi:iiiPORT ANT. CALL THEM AT 3351 IF YOU HAVE BREAK CALL RUSS AT 3373. ROOM IN YOUR WAGON !I lost: MICROECONOMICS by Walter Ntc· Ride t~MiLwAui<IOEtt;,~ ;.:,~~'k~~dr;,;~;5~holson: tn o·shag on Feb. 12. It found. call HELP! Need rtde to N. VIRGINIA/D C. 7 call Sue 2968 Mtke at x8649 Thts poor book needs tiS area lor break. Call Jim 1763. home. RIDE NEEDED TO PHILA FOR BREAK Two /un·lovtng gals need nde to PHILLY· CAN LEAVE AS EARLY AS WED 3/10.FOUND. A Gold Chain. wtth Medal be· area for break. Please don't leave these WILL SHARE USUAL CALL FRANK AT tween Dtllon and the Dining Hall Call 1821 gtrls stranded m South Bend! We can 3282Ken leave possibly as early as Wednesday af· ternoon (the 1Oth) We wtll share drivtng, NEED 2 RIDERS TCI CONNECTICUTLost 1 box ol 8 x 1 0 tnch Kodak color ft.lm expenses and prov1de munch1es!" FOR BREAK! LE•WING FRIDAY,tn the phone booth of the bus shelter. Please call Kwicki at 3773 MARCH 12. CALL BRIAN AT 8394. Please return and make a photographer ................................................................ smtle agatn. Contact Bob at 234-2981. Please I need a nde to Mansfield. OH area Need nde to FT. LAUDERDALE for spnng or Exit 7 on the Ohio turnpike -tor this break. Will pay usual. Gall Mtke 1182 LOST: Gray overcoat at PE-Stanford weekend-March 5. Call Carrie at 8031. Formal Saturday ntght. If found, please LOOKING FOR RIDE TO SYRACUSE.call Dave at 3596. Rtde needed to DAYTON. OHIO lor NY AREA FOR SPRING BREAK!! IF ······················· .. spnng break. I can leave any ttme YOU CAN HELP CALL STEVE AT 8317LOST: Tan overcoat at PE-Stanford For­PLEASE C,!lll Donna at 6771 WILL SHARE USUAL mal Saturday ntght. If found, please call . .............................Dave at 3596. EMERGENCYII! Ride needed to either I need a nde to Dayton. 0. thts weekend ........................................................... Ridgewood, N.J., or Nyack N.Y. on or tor U.D./N.D. bb game Wilt share cost.FOUND: THE KEY marked 152 tn the alter March 12. Will share expenses Call Jtm 1 388. library lounge after SLF last week. Con­and driving time-call284-5127. .. ........................................................... tact Dave Barber x8109. Need nde to LONG ISLAND lor Spnng Break. Wtll share usua,l. Meghan 81 14PLEASE NOTICE I lost a betg~. f~r~ ATTENTION HAWKEYESII The Southcollared coat at the South dtntng hall on Bend branch of HAWKEYE WORLD Need nde to Detroit 'lhts weekend. Call2/22/82. Coat of canvas-like mmatenal TOURS announces 1ts annual excurs1on Tom lacocca at 3574. and made by MAINE GUIDE. Any in­to the vacatiOn paradtse of DES MOINES formation leading to my getting 11 back will for an excitement-filled ten days tn March. Rtde needed to Dayton game. Brendannbe rewarded. Please call Kevtn at 1 103. 3175.Thank you. Two lucky riders will board the cruiser Misaligned Nova" captatned by Dave R1de needed to Daytc•n game. Barb (4 1)LOST a .Stl~~r Pe~;j. D;~~ond Eari~g! Durbala on Friday. March 12. Crutse dtrector Rachel Blount has destgned a 5878. Great Sentimental Value. If /ound call tour whtch proceeds west on 1·80 past2843. scenic Davenport. Iowa City. and Des RIDE NEEDED!! To East Lansmg. Micht· Motnes and ends in Boonevtlle ap­gan (or nearby) thts weekend. Can leave A watch was tound tn the ACC Arena at a proxtmately 7 hours after departure Fnday. Call Michele x2721. Wtll share$$ recent basketball game. If it's yours, (Captatn Dave assures a speedy tnp by Thanks!'! please call Dam at 3075 keeptng Director Rachel tn passenger quarters to'avotd the Illinois State Pollee). NEED TICKETS TO THE ND·MICHIGAN REWARD-LOST GOLD NECKLACE Reservattons for th1s exc1t1ng tour are now B-BALL GAME. CALL DOUG 1841. WITH CROSS AT CAMPUS VIEW betng taken -tt's sure to fill up fast. soPOOL. SENTIMENTAL VALUE. Please call8433 or 7983 today to book your spot Rtde needed to St. Paul. Mtnnesota. Call call.283·6954. on thts breathtaking crutse. Fred; 6760. LOST A GREEN NOTRE DAME JACK­ET AND GREEN NOTRE DAME MIT· TENS. LAST SEEN FRIDAY NIGHT IN THE ALUMNI HALL PARTY ROOM. IF Neer, Rtd~ /~r 2 to 0 Hare Atrport Fn TICKIETS YOU HAVE THE JACKET OR ANY IN· March 12 after 1 Wtll Help Wtth Gas FORMATION CONCERNING IT. PLEASE CALL 1 1 96. Need extra ttckets /or graduatton. Call Mark at 3008.  FOR SALE USED & OUT-PRINT BOOKS bought, sold. searched. ERASMUS BOOKS. lues-Sunday, 12·6. 1027 E. Wayne (One block south of Eddy-Jefferson intersec­tion.) .. . ...... . ·•······· ············ FOR SALE: GOOD SONY WALKMAN. GREAT BUY. CALL239-7494. Tl Programmable 58C $80 Barry 8207 USED BOOK SHOP. HOURS WED., SAT. SUN. 9-7. CASPERSON 1303 BUCHANAN RD., NILES. Buy and sell your books at Pandora's. 937 South Bend Avenue. South Bend. IN 46617. Telephone: 233·2342. Sales on Psychology and Theology ttus week and next-5&o off. ·····················································•·········· STEREO EQUIPMENT WHY HASSLE WITH A STORE WHEN YOU CAN GET PROFESSIONAL CONSULTA· TION.TOP BRANDS, LOW PRICES, AND FREE SET UP FROM A STUDENT ON CAMPUS? NIKKO.BOSE,HK ALL TOP BRANDS AT PRICES FOR STU· DENTS ONLY ! CALL J.B. AT 8232 or 8228 or 8213 AND GET THE STEREO YOU'VE ALWAYS WANTED! ,j PERSONALS MOLARITY Yes Molanty fans. tf the datly stnp JUSt can·t satiate your appettle for campus humor. then you stmply can't be wtthout the latest collections by Michael Moltnelli, published by world-renowned publishing house Juniper Press, etther Don't Make a Right or last years smash best-seller. On the Road to Selling Out. Both books are still avatlable tn the Notre Dame Bookstore for the bargatn pnce of $2.95. It makes a great gift -and avatlable tn boxed sets too (of 200). Act now! · PAT ANDREws is coi.irtiici ~.~PAT ANDREWS IS COMING ...PAT ANDREWS IS COMING to Satnt Mary's Ltttle Theatre tn Moreau Hall. March 4 at 8 p.m. ...•Boston Boston Boston .... Need nde for two to Boston or there­abouts for spnng break. Call Colleen at 41 -4424 or Jeb at 8649. JeH "Moon" Jeffers tor UMOC-ugly moon on campus. Help!! Our nde fell through and we may be stuck tn the M•dwest tor break! II you have room for two fun-loving sun-worshtpptng gtrls headed lor Tampa, Flonda, please call 3351. We'll share dnvtng and ex­penses NO BAND Members: FOURTH CLUE: Suzt has black hatr "TWO CAREER FAMILIES," A PANEL DISCUSSION WITH FOUR COUPLES, WITH BRIEF PRESENTATIONS, DIS. CUSSIONS AND QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS ABOUT LIFESTYLES AND HOW CAREERS, MARRIAGE AND FAMILY CAN BE COMBINED, WILL BE THURSDAY AT 6:30P.M. IN THE STU· DENT AFFAIRS CONFERENCE ROOM, LE MANS HALL, SMC. WATCH KAREN MIEDLAR DELIVER THE MOST INTERESTING SENIOR COMPREHENSIVE IN CHEMISTRY YOU'VE EVER SEEN THURSDAY AT 12:15 P.M. IN THE SAINT MARYS SCIENCE HALLIII SHE'S THE COOLEST CHEMIST AROUND!!! LYONS HALL FOOD SALES DELIVERS THE FINEST IN FRESH, THICK CRUST PIZZA TO ANY PLACE ON SOUTH QUAD FOR THE NOMINAL DELIVERY CHARGE OF 25 CENTS! CALL 1853 SUN-THURS FROM 9:30 TO 111 p.s Delivery pnce Includes serv1ces of one LUSCIOUS LYONS DELIVERY LADYI Ht Shelly! Thts IS your personal! Love. Ktbbs  You can still iOin the Soctety tor Creative Anachronism if you missed the meeting Joe I'm g01ng to be a hog" Musumeci. last week. for Information call De1rdre at Guess what we·re doing since you're not 8013 here. Tan, Party Dave and the entire productton dept.( and Greggie tool!!) NICE GIRL DESPERATELY NEEDS K~-~~~···c·~·~-~h~t~~~~-··h~~~ :~ ···~~~~rh·;~gRIDE WED. 3-10 TO EXIT 11 ALONG OH·TURNPK. CALL NANCY AT 1 282 ­about you m the paper. Read mto it THANX! whatever you will. A /allow ex-thtrd floorer ................................................................ ESOPHAGUS CONSTRICTORS-ONLY I HAVE REFORMED--What Party?, Mot­4.0 TEAM ON CAMPUS!!!!! sons?, Southern Comfort? M1kie can I ................................................................ have your driver's license? An ObserverATTENTION: Two suit coats were acci­Party on the the 25th? Beer on the Pitt.dently switched sometime during the Bus? It was fun whtle 11 lasted but the Par· Lewis-Pangborn Formal last Saturday tyman Js p/annmg his triumphant return.night. If you have the wrong one, please Sobnety tis boring. alcohol is the answer.call3861. THE NEW AND IMPROVED PARTY DAVEJoan Moore ...In Concert Sunday. March 7, 1982 3 p.m. at Moreau Little Theatre. ... ······················-·· ... ········· ATTENTION SKIERSII!Two spots have JUSt opened up on the S. U. Spring Break ................................................................ Ski Tnp. Anyone interested. should con­The day has arnved. Today ANN SMAL· tact the S.U. Tix Office tmmediately. This LEY turns 19. Call and wtsh her a happy IS first come flfst serve bas1s.birthday at 1260. Birthday kisses and other such gestures Will be welcomed. HAPPY BIRTHDAY. ANN II! Who would have guessed that Macor really does need suspenders? Patty and Mary Ryan LLD You wouldn't run the track with tust Happy 19th btrthday anyone would you? Love, The first conductor KAH ······························································· . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . .. . ' .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . Dear Chns. sorry, thts personal tsn't for Jotn JOHN. PAUL GEORGE. & RINGO you. Love you rust the same though. Time lor a BEATLES WEEK-END ON WSND AM-64! Starting at 3:00p.m. Fnday, AM· T~d~y I d~~·i ~~~i. i~~k iik~ h~ti ••• i. i~~i j,k~ 64 bnngs you 3 days of the BEST OF THE helltoo!l BEATLES, Including little known Not Monk BEATLE-BITS" and FREE ALBUM GIVEAWAYS!!! Tune into NOTRE DAME'S BEST ROCK-WSND·AM 64!!1 L1z Monroe"' -Idon't know if I have ever sent you a personal before, but in case I haven't. .. here one is. You·re wonderful! TN ............................................................... Lam1nated Antmal Samwtch Fans Untfy! Sol•di/y at the Nazz.Fnday, 10:25,take To the gtrl tn th~ ~~~y bl~ c~~i (Ct~dy: your medictne! nght?) -you look good wtth your glasses Summer programs: Ireland, Scotland, london, Parts. May 18-June 17. Paris, Germany, SwHerland, Italy. June 15­KMR July 14; Courses available in business Just to see you smtle would make my and economics, history, Italian, day philosophy, sociology, and theatre. For information call Prof. A. Black 4948 .................. ... ........... . .. (smc) For those who mtssed stgn-ups the first Itme around -Announctng Stgn-Ups II. ONLY27MORE DAYS TIL THE CIRCUS THE PITTSBURGH CLUB will have a COMES! !II second signup and try to fill an extra bus TONIGHT at 7 pm In LaFortune Ball· ONE MORE TIME. Anyone who mtssed room (2nd floor). We wtll need at least 30 stgn-ups for the Pttt Bus can came to a people to be able to run the bus. This Is second stgn-up on Thursday, March 4 at 7 the last chancel There wtll not be a thtrd pm tn the LaFortune Ltttle Theatre. Ques· opportumty Questions? -Call Brian at lions? Call Bnan Etchenlaub at 1581. 1581. A~rast~i·c,~~~;~i st~iir;,;~~ii~9 s~~ci~v March 7 LaFortune Little Theater 7pm Be One more ttme -Pittsburgh Club Bus There! signups for those who missed Sun­day's meeting TONIGHT at 7 prn In CAROLiNE.~ ·-y~~·;;,d~ i ·,i,i~k ·,d·d~ ,; LaFortune Ballroom. This ts your last Well. I dtd. Cross your heart (CYH) and chance! LYLS. Dana . ........ .. ....................... KIRIN BEER! Now that we have your at· TREE SURGEONS OF AMERICA, tentton. Karen. HAPPY BIRTHDAY! Wtth UNITEIIIII love from PM Mtke and Tony. .G;~;i;~;~.-·~;~~··;~·~·r··b·~-~~;;~·;:············M~iiv • . ·. w~''· ·ir;h~;e ~i ~~~~! Ha~~ ~ ;.:,~~~ derful btrthday. (I guess r11 see you at Senter Bar tontght.) What s the dtfference bei;.:,~~~ ~ tr~~ ~~d a bowling ball? Nora: A: Not very many people ever had to eat a Too bad you're not g01ng tnto wetght· bowling ball!!! ltftmg mstead of track: I'm sure you·d ex­cel at the clean and ierk' HEY LINDA. Ryan THANKS FOR THE VERY SENSUOUS LOOKING PILLOW CASE NOW I CAN SLEEP WELL AFTER ALL OF THOSE Deb Raehl: HOURS OF STUDYING. BY THE WAY. Say Ht to your man IM LOOKING FORWARD TO SEEING Mr. LaFortune YOU AT THE LIBRARY FRIDAY AND SATURDAY EVENINGS. IM SURE YOU LL BE THERE. YOUR FAVORITE THROAT T. THE FISH M. buddy Dana. Mr Hoosen. Your 205 lbs. and mustached popctcle ts sttlltn the freezer a/ the South Dtntng Hall. He has already accumulated a large brll Speaktng of throats. on cooktng chene and broken spatulas. The tnfamous John B has managed to Please ptck htm up at your earliest con· know what PINK really looks like vtence or we w1ll send htm to Psyche NO.tt s not that ptnk. the one the DOME Serv1ces. sends you when you re fa111ng at m1d· Thank you. semester. Love Mr. Robtnson Your MECH Prof  

The Observer -Sports Thursday, March 4, 1982 -page 9 
Betterdays ahead for gytnnasts 


Although the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Women's Gymnastics Club lost a meet last weekend to Wheaton College:, better days arc on the horizon. 
"The women's team has gradually improvc:d overall through the year,'' !>ays club co-president Brian Mclaughlin, who shan:~ the club leadership rolt: with St. Mary's senior Patty Larkin. "Hopefully, next year we can get a women'!> coach because what they really need right now is somcont: who can work with them on an extended basis." 
Coach or no coach, one person that is doing quite well by hcrscu· is Notre Dame sophomore Denise Mdlugh. Last Saturday. McHugh came offof"onc oftht· more worse performances I have seen her in," accord­ing to McLaughlin, hut still managed to capture first place in the all-amund competition as she scored a total of29.H5 points in four events. 
lkr top scores t·amc in her firM-place balance beam performance ( 7. 'i ). a third-place t1nish in the vault ( 7.9) and another third-plan· finish on the uneven parallel bars ( 7.0 ). Earlier in the year, McHugh easily won the all-around compt·tition at Miami (Ohio) among IH women by placing tlrst in three ofthe four events while finishing ~econd in tht• other. In january, McHugh's per­ti.mnancc against a top-tlight Southeast Missouri State team impn·sst·d the coach for the Missouri tcam enough to offer her a st·holarship to compete for his team. 
While McHugh is a dominant force on the team, there is promise of future prospcrity for the team as a whole with its young talt:nt. 
Saint Mary's sophomores Laura Bach and Anne Sawicki, along with Notre Dame frt:shmen Cindy Sal· vino, Kathy Wolter, Megan Zillig and Helen Ringler, all have the talent, says tht· senior McLaughlin, upon which the team <:an build a solid foundation. 
Although none as of yet have had "McHughesquc" 
pcrformanccs, the progress has been cvident. In the 
meet at Miami (Ohio) three wct·ks ago, Salvino put in a 
second-place performance in the vault while placing 
fourth in the tloor exercise:. In the samc mcct, Wolter 
placed third in the: balance beam. 
"Right now it is just a mattc:r of their continuing with a lot of hard work in our practices so as to gain more cxpcriencc,'' says McLaughlin. "They have been making real good progress though. The meet scores aren't real· ly indicativc of our overall talt-nt sincc we have had to work with only t(mr or five people whilc other teams have had about I 0." 
Thc men's team also has an excellent youth move· ment going for it, but the mainstays for now arc the uppt·rclassmcn. McLaughlin docs not dominate any of the five events for the men, but when it comes time to tabulate all-around scores, his name is sure to he among 
Ch,1b Corner 
the top. 

His performance at Miami (Ohio)serves as testimony to his versatile skills. McLaughlin did not place above eighth place in any of the individual events, but placed third out of 3'i participants in the all-around phase. The specialists on the team include senior Louis DeLeon in the pummel-horse, junior Ed Barret in the high bar and freshman Mike Dorcnbusch in the rings. Other top in· dividuals for the club include senior Mitch .\1oorc, juniors Chris Davis and Scott Fortman, sophomores 
John \\''arrington and Rich McNamara and· freshmen Tom Treat and Tim Sen net. 
Mclaughlin praises their abilities ofhaving caught on quickly to gymnastics while also remaining greatly dcd· icated. Treat, for example, placed second in the tloor exercise in an t:arlicr meet this year. The fact that it was his first-ever competitive meet made it all the more im· prcssive. Warrington, mcanwhile competed with torn tendons in the same meet. Fearlessness is contagio us, though. on the team. 
"We have people on the team that sec an opposing member do a tough routine in a meet, and members of our team try to duplicate it in the same meet even though they had ncvt·r even seen or tried it before," says Mclaughlin. "But everybody here seems to learn things so quickly. Some guys have been able to do things on the high bar now iri one year which took me three years. 
"In our practices (which run between 6·1 0 hours a 
week), we try to achieve two main goals: a chance to 
teach those with no prior experience in gymnastics, 
and a chance for the mort· advanced to be able to com· 
pete. We have accomplished a lot over the years; we 
have built up our schedule, talent, and our own facilities 
(over S5000 worth of equipment was brought in the 
past year)." 

People like Dorenbusch are ready to help the team 
continue its growth. "It can get very aggravating at first 
when you start out in gymnastics,'' he says, "but it gets 
better when you realize you can still bc good ifyou take: 
it slowly. Our future certainly docs look promising with 
all the young people we: have. We hope to keep bui'lding 
what Brian has left us." 

The team will compt·tc at the University of Chicago 
this Saturday. 

Cecil Rucker slums one through in Notre Dame's blowout of Northern lou•a on Tuesday. Rucker bud 12 points and six blocked shots intbe game. (Photo b)•jobn .ltacor) 
_... 
eue 
e·Chlc eLevi 
WE ALSO CARRY •Bibs 
• 
French Bibs eBaggies •Slacks eTops and Blouses 

•Men's 
Shirts 


ND ~ SMC students ~ falculty qualify for discount with ID 

203 E. Main St. Downtown Niles ·Ph. 684-3770 

• 

-~,r INTERHALL 

...Hockey
continuedfrom page 8 
continuedfrompuge 12 1977. 
Mixed Double• 

Digger Phelps reminded repor­
Mulligan (3345toGorskt ( 1262) Burton 
ters after Tuesday night's win over
year the football (five) and baskt·t·

( 1789toGallagher (4312) Hatlteld (1171t.Walsh (8034) v Rosenfield (287· hall (nine) teams combined. Yet 
Northern Iowa that just two Notre 2577').Rosenberg (277·8169) Dame teams still have a shot at the
there is more to this than wins and

Welsh (121~oWelsh (288·0993) v McGamty 
( 1615toCruz (6885) losses. "This team has a special national title -hockey and ft:ncing. charancr," says Moher. "It's that ex­
Croke (234·288~oConway (277·3371) v Pterce The fencers will shoot for that ( t 424toCervenak ( 1363) 
March 16·1 H in the NCAA cham·
tra little something we lacked in '77. (7839toMarget (8067) "This year's team was down three pionships in the ACC. Thc hockcy goals against Bowling Green (the team hopes to bcgin its march Open Torun1m1nt top team in the CCHA) twice:, and tomorrow ... at home. Jerry R~nella (7854) v Btll Clifford (8164) battled back to take both into Barry Tharp ( 1570) v Mtke Schmutz (4600) 
0 Boen ( 1249toBoland ( 7956) Kahale 
overtime, and we won one. Those 

Paul Wentzel (8267) v Dave Jakoptn (8170) DenniS Hetnzman (3200) v Chuck Hogan (1810) arc just two examples." Mark Fatum (3189) v Rtch Cordova (1249) 
The outcome of this home-icc 

Taog Ansao (3200) v Kevtn Stmpson (3370) 
Support

playolf series also should be dit: Dave Yordy (3439) v Pam Gorski ( 1262) ffcrent. When the ticket windows Jeff Kolbus (8906) v Dave Marshall (8895) 
Tony Pterce (1424) v Mark Schwenler 
opened Monday morning, there ac­

Tom McKelvey (8906) v Mtke Boeschenstetn (8895) Steve Smtth (1034) v Steve Schnetder (6802) tually were a couple dozen people 
Irish 

Jtm Croke (234·2880) v Tom 0 Boen ( t 248) 
u•aiting outside. The corner sec­

Andre Muemnghoff( 1031) v Dom1n1c Tocome (3075) Mark Outgley (3177) v Bob Duksen (3113) tions have· been returned to the Paul Ntland (2277) v Chos Hatfield t117t) North Dome which means attcn· 
leers

Gary Purk ( t056) v Frank Pedac (3092) 
dance almost dct1nitcly will surpass

D Fullmer (3203) v Joe Stetglmeter Steve Danco ( 1731) v Joe Rtehl(8269) the 4,600 two-night playoff total of 

ycdr tune spanl Your Spantsh studtes wtll be enhanced by opportunities not avatlable 111 a U S classroom Standard HEGINNEH OR ADVANUO Co>t IS dbout the Sdme <lS d 

semHster tn d U S culleqtJ $2,989 P11ce tncludes t!!t rounct 
tzed tests show our students' language skttls super~or totnp to Sevtlle from New Y01k. room. bodrd, and 111111011 1 ornplete Government Hfdnt~ diHf loans ava1lable tor el1g1ble students completing two year programs tn U S 

:..ludt!nl~ Hurry. n takes a lot of trme to make all arrangements LIVI' wtth d SpdrH'h idmtly, attend cld,.e> tour hours a dav. FALL SEMESTER · SEPT 10 Dec. 22 SPRING SEMESTER lour tl~ys a wP.ek. four months Edrn 16 hrs of credtt teqlll Feb 1 June 1 each year valtmt 10 4 ~t!rnc~wrlj lduyhl ll"t U S college~ over a two ~ULL Y ACCREDITED·A program at Trmtty Chr~suan College. 
SEMESTER IN SPAIN 
2442 E. Collier S.E. Grand Rapids. Mtchlgan 49506 (A Program of Trinity Chnsttan College) 
for full information 1-800-253-9008

CALL TOLL FREE 
(In Mich., or if toll free line inoperattve call 1-616-942-2903 or 942-2541 collect) 
The Observer -Sports Thursday, March 4, 1982-page 10 

University of San Francisco star guard Quintin Dailey (44), shown here last month against Notre Dame, bas been dropped from the USBWA All-America team because of recent criminal charges brought against him. See Skip Desjardin's column at right. (Photo by Cheryl Ertelt) 
EASY AMTIL\1( RID..... $5.00 to Niles depot 
For reservations or schedule information, call us or contact your travel agent. 
Quintin Dailey 

Guiltyuntilproven innocent? 
MANHATTAN, Kan.-I guess "ashamed" is the best word. 
The news about Quintin Dailey reached me as I sat in Ahearn Fieldhouse awaiting the start of the Big Eight Tournament. Not the news about his arrest, mind you -The Observer reported that last week. No, this was the news -equally as shocking -that the United States Basketball Writers Association (USBWA) had dropped Dailey from its All-America squad. 
"It was our feeling that an All-Star team is one thing and an All-America team is another," said USBWA Presi· dent Frank Boggs. "In athletics, an All-American should exemplify America on and off the court. 
"Had the word been out before we met that these felony charges had been filed, it is my personal opinion that he wouldn't have been considered. 
"There is no question we felt we were doing the right 
thing." 

I am a member ofthe USBWA. I voted for Dailey, and I 
don't think there's any question but that Boggs and his 
committee did the wrong thing. 
First ofall, ifBoggs and his associates arbitrarily were 
going to veto one choice and name another person to 
the squad, why did they bother to have writers vote in 
the first place? If our votes mean that little, why solicit 
them? At least he should be honest and just call it the 
Frank Boggs All-America team -as Walter Camp used 
to do with football in the beginning ofthe century. 
Secondly, and far more importantly, Dailey has been 
found guilty ofabsolutely nothing. 
Granted, the charges filed against him are extremely 
serious. But nothing has been proven. Nothing has even 
been fully investigated. 


Dropping Dailey, the nation's fifth-leading scorer, from the team at this point is a direct denial ofhis right to due process. Unless things radically changed in this country while I've been sequestered in Kansas, Dailey is innocent untilproven guilty. 
I would probably support Dailey's removal from the squad if he was convicted, and if the members of the USBWA were asked to vote on the issue and approved the move. But neither has taken place, and Boggs doesn't seem to care what the writers think. 
"Acting like both a judge and a jury appears to me to be a bit un-American," says.San Francisco Coach Pete Barry. And that is just what Boggs has done here. For all intents and purposes, he not only predetermined Dailey's guilt, but carried out the sentence. · 
All of this serves to make a mockery of the USBW A's team. There are some very deserving players on the team whose recognition undoubtedly will be tainted by the imposition ofBoggs's personal whim. 
"I think it is an embarassment to the committee," says Barry. 
As a member ofthe USBWA, I'd go further than that. It's an out-and-out shame. 
United Limo 
...Assistants 
continuedform page 12 

"You;re on a different level here though. At Notre Dame, the recruit­ing and the opponents are nationwide so you have to broaden your knowledge and become more familiar with different areas of the country." 
After years and years ofsuccess, a 9-16 record will come as a disap­pointment to any coach. 
"'You hate to lose," says Gillen. "You hate to have a losing season. So naturally, to me this year has been a major disappointment. 
"But, as a coach, if you know you do your best and the kids do their best, that's all you can do." 
"You try to build·on what we have," state~ Baron. "and you try to utilize each kid's strengths to meet the needs ofthe team. 
"The priority is to try to get a chemistry going. Because we are thin (talent-wise), we are not going to be able to go up against a ttam and out-muscle them because they're just more talented than we are." 
"A lot ofour kids are playing out of position," points out Gillen, "but hopefully we'll rectifY that with the incoming recruiting class. 
"We'll have some more depth. We'll have some size and we'll just try to get as much out of this year as we can." 
Gillen is known for getting too 
excited while on the bench, and 
sometimes that does get in the way 
of Phelps. 
"Once in a while, Digger tells me 
to shut up or relax and go sit in the 
locker room," he says. "I don't mean 
to get him upset but sometimes I do. 
But that's my nature. I've go to be 
myself. 
"Sometimes it goes overboard, but I'm not going to be a yes-man. I'm not going to sit there and be a quiet guy or a robot or something. That's not my nature." 
Many people in basketball circles feel that Gillen will be the next in a long line of Irish assistants under Phelps who will earn a head coac!J­ing job elsewhere. 
"Right now, if someone were to 
contact me, I would consider any of­
fer," he says. "But, I'd like to leave 
Notre Dame on a winning note. If I 
were to get a head coaching job, it 
will be a letdown leaving. But, I 
wouldn't want to leave Notre Dame 
on a losing season." 
And would he return to the East? 
"I love the East but I really enjoy 
the Midwest," adds Gillen. "I like the 
people in the Midwest. They are 
very sincere and genuine here be­
cause they're not caught in a rat 
race. 
"In Philadelphia, the people are 
very nice but everybody's like Don 
Knotts. You get caught up in the ex­
pressways and the subways and 
everything is nervous. 
"It's very hard to get a head coach­
ing job. You have to be selective 
without being too picky." It may 
be a difficult job to land, but don't 
bet against these Notre Dame assis­
tants. 



ONE MORE TIME 
PITTSBURGH CLUB 
SPRING BREAK BUS 
mandatory meeting for those who ·missed Sunday's meeting 
TONIGHT! at 7:00PM in LaFortune Ballroom 
This is Your Last Chance 



• 

Ibe~nver.========================================= 
!VIolarity 

Doonesbury 


Simon 
1'M L05\N(:, IT fATHER. 
ITS UE.N f1H\"?E~I~G FOR 
TWO WEEKS NOW... PE.RY l'bRNIN6 ... MY ~ .. . 
INITIAL~ CRR'JE() IN IT .. . 

~~~~~==========================T=h~ur~s~da~y~,M~ar~c~h~4~,1~9~8~2~~pa~g=e==ll 
NAZZ COMPETITION Friday, March 5 8pmto2am 
See your favorite campus performer compete for big money. 
WINNERS NIGHT AT THE NAZZ Saturday, March 6 starting at 8 pm with Noah and Irene Carver -proffessional Folk Musicians 
Michael Molinelli 


24 Here: Fr. 26 Spoken 
unclearly 28 City east of Tampa 
33 As anal· 
ternative 34 Mimicry 35 Scandina· 
vian 37 Fruit drink 40 Takeoff 
point for 
anglers 41 Divides up 42 Hebrew 
month 43 Soft diet 44 Gives out 45 Garbo 46 "The bird 
-the wing" 
1.:~~=~~~:;~~:.1 

Garry Trudea~ 

Jeb Cashin 
48 Party 12 Maxim member 13 Carried 
50 Synthetic 53 Wine cask 54 Singer 
Gluck 55 Met 57 Falling 
body 62 Coconut 

fiber 63 Selves 65 Moon valley 66 Pursue 67 Abominable 
snowman 68 Cove 69 Chances 70 Cupid 71 Rental 
contract 
DOWN 1 Food fish 2 Mahjongg 
piece 3 Short jacket 4 WKRP's 
Anderson 5 With pique 6 Snead 7 Geraint's 

wife 8 Lab burners 9 Inattentive 
10 Horatio and family 11 ESP prac· litioner 
Campus 

•4:30 
p.m. -Meet-Your-Major, Modc:rn and Classical Languagc:s. :\tc:morial Library Lounge:, Sponsorc:d by AL'iAC 

•6:30 
p.m. -Panel Discussion, Two Carc:c:r Familic:s, Studc:nt Affairs Confc:rc:ncc: Room, Lc::\ians Hall, Saint ,\1ary's Collc:gc:, Sponsorc:d by Counsding and Carc:c:r Dc:vdopmc:nt Cc:nter 

• 
..,. 10 p.m. ....:;. Film, Wc:st Side: Story, Enginc:t:ring AuJitorium, sI admission 

•7 
p.m. -Meeting, ND·SMC El Salvador Solidarity Group, Social Concc:rns Akovc:, First tloor, LaFortune:, All intc:rc:stc:d please: come: 

•7 
p.m. -Film, "Cc:ntral Ameril.:a: Roots of Crisis", Carroll Hall, Saint Mary's Collc:gc:, Sponsorc:d by Tht· Ct·ntral American Awart·nc:ss :\ic:dia Sc:ric:s 

•7. 
lJ:30 p.m. -Film, "Ext·alibur", Carroll Hall, Saint Mary's Collc:gc:, S I admission 

•7 
p.m. -Meet-Your-Major, Computc:r Applka· tions, I0-t O'Shaughnc:ssy Hall, SponsoreJ by AI.· SAC 

•7 
p.m. Meet-Your-Major, Art, 2Il) O'Shaughnc:ssy Hall, Sponsorc:d by ALSAC 

•7:30 
p.m. -Film, "The Powc:r to Change:", 3S I .\1aJc:lc:va Hall, Saint Mary's Campus, Frc:e admis· sion 

•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture-Discussion, "Tax Rc:sis· tancc:: A Case: Study", Mc:morial Library Lounge, Sponsorc:d by Pax Christi/Sacred Hc:art, Notre: Dame:, Public invitc:d 

•H 
p.m. -Play, "The Wild Duck", Washington Hall, Sponsorc:d by ND·SMC Thc:atrt:, S2.SO Staff/Studc:nts, S3 othc:rs 

•H 
p.m. -WSND-FM Radio, Chicago Symphony Orchestra · 

•H 
p.m. -Recital, Patricia Andrc:ws, LaFortune: Little: Thc:atrc:, Sponsorc:d by Music Dc:partmc:nt 

•H 
p.m. Meet-Your-Major, ALPA, 331 O'Shaughnc:ssy Hall, Sponsorc:d by AL.SAC 

•H: 
1<; p.m. -Meet-Your-Major, Musk, II<; Crowlc:y Hall, Sponsurc:d by AL'iAC 

•H:30 
p.m. -Meet-Your-Major, ALPP, 331 O'Shaughnc:ssy Hall, Sponsorc:d by AL.SAC 

•l) 
p.m. -Meet-Your-Major, AL Enginc:c:ring, 331 O'Shaughnc:ssy Hall, Sponsorc:d by Al-'iAC 

• 
10:30 p.m. -WSND-AM Radio, N.D. Wc:c:k in Rc:vkw 

•1 
I p.m. -WSND-AM, Album Hour, "Eye: to Eye:", Eye: to Eye: 


T.V. Tonight 

8:30p.m. 9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10:00p.m. 
10:30 p.m. ll:OOp.m. 
11:30p.m. 
!2:00a.m. !2:30a.m. 
I:40a.m. 
28 Bo~om lluddi~s 
34 Thb Old House 
46 Pauern for Living 
16 Ditfrelll Strokes 
28 Barney ~iller 
34 Austin City Limits 
46 Today with Lester Sumrall 16 (;irnnll' A Break 22 Family Feud 
28 Taxi 
16 Hill StrtTt Blu<·s 
22 Nur-.· 
28' 1.0/1.0 
34 \li<:higan Outdoors 
46 Jat·k Van lmpe 
34 Training Dogs The Woodhous<' Way 
46 Fajth For Today 
16 :'ll<·wsCt·nter 16 
22 1.2 Eyewitness News 28 N.-wswatch l.H 34 The Dkk Cawll Show 46 Praist· The Lord 16 Tonight Show 22 Quincy/~t·~illan and Wik 28 ABC Nt·ws Nightline 34 Captioned ABC Nt·ws 28 Vegas 46 Lester Sumrall Tead1ing 16 Late Night With David Lellerman· 28 Vegas 46 Sharing 28 Late Night Newsbricf 
ACROSS 
1 Ancient Roman marker 
6 Appear 10 Amo, amas,­14 Discover 
by chance 15 One against 16 Adriatic 
island 
17 "Get­little dogie" 
18 Abutting 
Wis. 19 Insect 20 Actor 
Robert 22 Father 23 Beat out 21 Wood sorrel 25 Tube or ear 27 Rubber tree 28 Kola penin· 


sula native 29 Pacific 
port 30 Remember 31 Gowrong 32 Was overly 
fond 36 Adjust 38 Computer 
input 39 QEDword 41 Mental 
faculty 
of a kind 42 Bow 44 "... wagon 
-star" 45 Lear's 
daughter 47 Stings 49 Not speaking 50 Masculine 51 Not sotto 
voce 52 Athirst 56 ln­
(completely) 58 Prong 59 Fitzgerald 60 Cheers for 
the torero 61 Plexus 64 Family 
member 
The Daily Crossword 
~....-:-::--117.;"--r:-:;-, 

©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 3/3/82 All Rights Reserved 
GET INTO ANIMALS AT 

~m~®rn rn4\ill~~ 
ANIMAL NITE! 
Growl, Gawk, a'ld Bark over pi'lk elepha'lts. wild turkeys, a'ld dead bulldogs to 'lite! Fri: Hei'leke'l pitcher special! Ope'l 10·2 
~ A MIU A_~ ~~:TE is brought to you by Tom
r-------------------------------­
''The Devia'lt'' Je'lse'l i'l ho'lorof his 22tld 
·';,e 
• 
., 

Thursday, March 4, 1982 -page 12
~~orts 
Laurion, MacNamara 
ND goalies stand tall in nets 
ByJANE HEALEY These two different people have McNamara agrees that it would be Sports Writer been sharing that subjection for al­perfect to play in all the games, but 
most two years. Last year, Laurion also cautions that a goalie can get "They are a strange breed ofcat." was troubled with strained knee 
very complacent in practice if he is It was said by Notre Dame hockey ligaments that kept him out of most assured ofstarting every game.coach Lefty Smith. It was in of the action. He played in only 13 Instead, he feels it would be better reference to the guys·that play the 
games. McNamara, on the other to play the person who is perform­goalie position. It was directed 
hand, played in 24 games and ac­ing best in practice for any upcom­toward two people in particular, the cumulated twice as many minutes ing games: This would keep both two people who tend the net for the 
played as Laurion. goalies alert at all times. Comments Irish. This year, the tables have turned. McNamara, "That would be better The first of these two people is Laurion played the majority of for everyone concerned." senior Dave Laurion from Interna­games at the beginning of the 
One might think that under such tional Falls, Minn. Recruited by season. McNamara relieved him 
competitive circumstances, it Smith, Laurion was attracted to during the Michigan Tech series in would be difficult for the two to get Notre Dame by the mixture of ath­latejanuary and t started several suc­along. But Smith says that there is no letics and academics. ND was cessive games, even earning a shut­jealousy or animosity between the 
Laurion's first choice above other 
out against Ferris State. two, making life very easy for the schools such as Minnesota. 
McNamara ran into trouble head coach. McNamara had this to Junior Bobby McNamara from against Michigan State at which time say: "Dave is really even-tempered Toronto, Ontario, joined the team Laurion came in to help out. Last and seems to get along with one year later. Like Laurion, weekend they split the goalie duties everyone. Honestly, I wouldn't want 
McNamara valued Notre Dame's between them so as to "sharpen up," the other goalie on this team to be reptation ofdeveloping the student­in Smith's words, for this weekend's anyone but Dave." athlete. But McNamara also adds 
CCHA playoffs. Laurion agreed with both Smith that "the people I met on my recruit­For McNamara it has been a tough and McNamara, but phrased it 
an­ing trip really helped." 
year. He has not been able to other way. "It is a difficult position 
These two descriptions may make develop the consistency he desires. to be in," he says. "You want him to the two goalies seem like normal or 
For the first time in his hockey play well, for his sake and the sake of even common athletes. But Smith career he found himself on the 
the team, but as long as he plays well, goes on to contend, "It takes a lot of bench. 
you don't play at all." courage, ah, to be in front ofthat net "I wasn't spiteful," he says now. "I Both goalies seem to express the 
while frozen pucks, faster than was just trying to accept it and adjust hope that the goalie who is playing baseballs and twice as hard are com­to it." McNamara's goal was to work his positio t n better right now should ing at you from alt" different angles hard in practice and hope for a break be playing. Ofcourse they both wish 
and distances." Smith sums up his 
or a chance to play. it could be their name that is an­feelings with,"You have to be a dif-For Laurion, his senior season is nounced before Friday's game, but ferent kind of person to .. subject what he had hoped it would be. In whatever is best for the team will yourself to that." the Great Lakes Tournament in suit them both. December, he was named the Most N; always, though, Smith has the Valuable Player and things looked last word: "It'll be Dave." Although great. Some trouble came near the equal in most areas at the present
Dejavu?
• end of the season, to the tune of 23 time (both have goals against goals against in 3 games, but the averages of 4.13 ), Smith feels that minor slump was attributed to some Laurion possesses better stick ability "emotional fatigue." and almost serves as an additional Laurion elaborates: "It's tough to defenseman on the ice. play so many games in a row. It "They are both, ah, fine and would be ideal to play, say, five out capable goaltenders. We want to go 
Irish hockey's five-year plan 
NOTRE DAJI1E, Ind. -Slowly but surely, hockey 

ofsix games. That way you know tha out there with the goalie who will 
seems to be building a congregation offaithful here 
job is still yours, but you still get a give us the best advantage.
beneath the Golden Dome. 
rest." "Right now, it's Dave."
In a year when the football team has fallen away from the Top 10 and up-and-down basketball team from the Top 20, the Fighting Irish icemen have ended their regularseason rankedfourth. 
Gillen, Baronshine 
This sounds like it could have been writh:n yester­With a four-goal Irish !t:ad and three periods of hock­day, but this excerpt is taken from a Chicago Tribune ey to play, the 2,43S assembled in the ACC's North 
as Irish assistants 

article published five years ago this week. That was Dan Dome were confident that their team at least would Devine's second year at Notre Dame, and his I 7th­hold on. So were the students, who left a day early for ranked football team had won the 1976 Gator Bowl. spring break. So were the Irish players, and that proved ByWILLHARE 
That also was the year Digger Phelps' basketball team to be their downfall. Sports Writer finished 22-7 and lost to eventual runner-up North 
Notre Dame graduate-turned-sportscaster Tim Ryan Carolina in the East Regional semifinal. And the writer Few may realize it, but Notre
brought the camera's of NBC's Grandstand to campus ofthat Tribune piece, Neil Milbert, thought things were Dame has two assistant basketball
for Game Two. They saw the Irish jump to a quick 1-0 bad then??? 
lead, but Minnesota responded with three goals in the coaches who both hail from Brook­
There are similarities between then and now, per­next five minutes. By the end of the first period, the lyn, New York. haps the foremost of which is the fact that the last time Gophers led the game, 4-2, but the Irish still led the Yes, that's right folks, Coach Notre Dame served as host for post-season hockey ac­total-goals series, 7-S. Digger Phelps actually had the 
tion was March, 1977. So on the eve of the return of "It was clear that this was not the same forechecking, audacity to hire two guys who sound playoff excitement to the ACC, it is interesting, and for 
snappy-passing Irish team that had so soundly defeated like they just were talking to AI many painful, to recall the events of March 10, 1977. 
the Gophersthe night before," wrote Greg Solomon in McGuire for a couple ofhours. In a sense, it was the lowest point in the history of 
The Observer. But Minnesota, he continued, was "more Villanov-er. Faibfield. St. Notre Dame hockey. And it has taken five years for Lefty 
aggressive and alert, and with a lot ofpucks falling their Bonaven-tiah. Loyo-/er uh Bu/1­Smith to return his team to that successful plateau. way." -timore. That's a few of the schools The Irish had finished the 1976-77 regular season where Irish assistants Pete Gillen
The Gophers outscored the Irish, 3-0, in the second with a 19-10-3 record in the Western Collegiate Hock­and Jim Baron have done their time
stanza to take an 8-7 lead in the series. Early in the third ey Association, good for second place in the league and period, Donny Fairholm (brother ofcurrent Irish assis­in moving up to coaching jobs at 
a No. 4 national ranking. Notre Dame co-captain Brian tant Terry) failed to convt:rt on a penalty shot, and that Notre Dame. "Dukie" Walsh was the league MVP, and the other co­took all the punch out ofthe Irish attack once and for all. Despite their annoying Brooklyn­captain, jack Brownschidle, was on his way to the St. Yanking Peterson from the nets in favor of Moher for esc accents, they are both regarded 
Louis Blues of the National Hockey League. The Irish the third period was too !little, too late. as fine head coaching prospects in boasted the best one-two goal tending punch in the na­The Gophers took the game, 9-2, and the series, 10-7. years to come. tion, with john Peterson and Len Moher (now an assis­Many feel that ifthe Irish could have held on to take that Before this season, Gillen, 34, 
stant coach under Smith) rated second and third in the series, the program would have been on Easy Street as posted impressive marks of26-4 and league, respectively. far as fan support is concerned. Notre Dame fans 21-7 with Virginia Military Institute By finishing second in the WCHA, Notre Dame demand a winner, and that night, they were dealt a blow before moving onto an assistant's earned the right to host seventh-place Minnesota in the that has taken five years to overcome. job at Villanova, where the Wildcats 
first round of the playoffs. The coach of the Golden The hockey program has been under a microscope posted records of 15-13 and 23-8. Gophers, Herb Brooks, brought to South Bend a large since then. Hockey was costing more and more and VMI was ranked 20th in the final chunk of what would become his gold-medal-winning bringing less and Jess in to the athletic department. To 1977 Associated Press Poll, while 
unit in Lake Placid three years later. With youngsters cut travel costs, four WCHA teams (Notre Dame, Villanova made the NCAA Tourna­
Eric Strobel, Phil Verachotta, Steve Christoff, Rob tomorrow's opponent Michigan, Michigan State and ment in his final season there. McClanahan and Steve janaszak on the roster, the ,\1ichigan Tech) jumped to the more geographically­After a major scouting role last visitors had dreams, but few hopes of advancing to compact Central Collegiate Hockey Association after year, Gillen has been the recruiting 
Round Two after the Irish won the first game of the last season. coordinator for the Irish this season. two-game, total-goals series, S-1. But so much for the similarities between then and ".\1y main function is to get on the In Wednesday night's opener, goaliejanaszak was the now. The differences .are numerous as well. Lefty road and help us get the players for sole contributor to the Minnesota effort, kicking away Smith's 1981-82 edition has won more games (20) this next year," says Gillen, who helped 
S:3 Irish shots on goal. His teammates did little ... until to land recruits Tim Kempton and
See HOCKEY, page 9

Thursday night. Jim Dolan, both from the East, in his mission this year. 
Baron, 28, graduated from St. Bonaventure in 1977 and assisted at Loyola College in Baltimore before returning to the Bonnies in 1980. He has been doing most ofthe scouting of opponents in his first year here and has been a great help for Phelps in the daily practices. 
He also coaches on the bench when Gillen is away for recruiting (which has been the case in nine games this year). 
"Being from the East," says Baron, "it gives you an advantage in knowing most of the players and the high school coaches from the east. 
See ASSIST ANTS, page I 0 
INSIDE: 
Dailey--page 10 
Gymnastics --page 9 Racquetball --page 8 



