• • .Faculty-letter -page 7 

VOL XVI, NO. 118 the independent ..,tmknt nc:w..,papc:r st:r\'ing notrt: dame and ..,aint mary·., THURSDAY, MARCH 25, 1982 

Important factor 
Braun lectures on Polish theatre 
By MARY FRAN CEll Auditorium. Consequently, much of the theatre's News Staff Stating "one cannot understand work was censored; however, the: the present theatre in Poland witout theatre still managed to stage many 
In spite of invasions and censor· some knowledge of the past," Braun important classics. ship, the Polish theatre continues to began by outlining the history of It was during this time that many be an important factor in national Polish theatre. The outline ran from of the most significant Polish plays culture, according to Dr. Kazimierz the early beginnings of Middle Age were written, ones which "shaped Braun. miracle and morality plays to the national consciousness" even 
Braun, a visiting professor from present-day work ofGrotowski. though they were "staged only in 

i· 
the University of Wroclaw, Poland, According to Braun, Wojciech people's imaginations." 

I 
addressed the topic "Polish Theatre Boguslawski founded the National Braun said that at that point an im­

l
and Drama: A Twentieth Century Theatre in Warsaw in 1 765, one year portant tradition in Polish theatre 
View" yesterday in the Library after the Russian invasion of Poland. was born: the writing of plays as a composition of political and everyday events in poetic form. 
Braun stated that the Polish Ian·
Demonstrators protest 
guage was permitted only In the theatre and the church; consequent­ly, the theatre became an important


Hesburgh participation 
institution in defending the national 
culture. By KELLI FLINT to the Memorial library . Around the beginning ofthe 20th Executive News Editor The group consisted mainly of century, modern Polish theatre 
graduate students in the philosophy began to take shape with the work of 
About 25 demonstrators marched department, along with a few profes­Stanislaw Wipianski, who was with picket signs in front of the Ad­sors, according to senior Dan Bel~ actively involved in the Great ministration building yesterday to who participated in the march. Reform of the Theatre. Braun stated protest University President Fr. The DSA had a two-part goal in that Wypianski represented one Theodore Hesburgh's upcoming mind, Bell said. "They want to position, that of theatre as a work of trip to El Salvador. remind Hesburgh that there are art with no connection to real life, 
Chaining "30,000 dead -no people who don't want him going while the other position held that more -U.S. out of El Salvador" and down to El Salvador," he said. "They theatre was an encounter between "Stop the draft -stop the war -U. also want to show the South Bend the actors and the audience. 
S. out of El Salvador," members of community that the Notre Dame Out of this latter position came the Democratic Socialists of campus doesn't want Hesburgh to the idea of open-air performances

SAN SALVADOR President ofEl Salvador jose Napoleon Duarte 
America (DSA) marched from noon use Notre Dame's name to legitimize and flexible-space theatres, and in

talks to reporters Tuesday during an impromptu news conference 
until 12:30 at the Administration a hypocritical election." 1933, the first flexible-space theatre

In the bar ofthe Camino Real hotel. Duarte told newsmen that if 
building where it was witnessed was built in Warsaw. 

necessary be would ask the United States for technical help in an Bell noted that the march would
primarily by members of the news Braun said that Juliusz Osterwa

investigation if the deaths offour Dutch journalists killed last probably make Hesburgh feel "more
media The protesters then marched was the main proponent of this type

week in Cbalatenango province. ( AP Photo) resentful" toward the group. 
of theatre and often involved spec­"Hesburgh likes for people to talk to tators directly in his productions.
lhim quietly about differences," he The lecture was the first in a series 
Fourspeakers 
said. "I think this will make it harder of four Braun will be giving entitled for him to work with us after he "Perspectives on a New Theatre." 
returns, even if he does agree with The lectures will be held on the next



Forutn exatnines UJotnen sroles us." 
By LESLIEANNE WADE  to the realities oflife, as compared to  perfection will never be whole and  
Neu•sStuff  the fantasy of myth. According to  those who choose wholeness will  
Gulanick,  it  is  unfortunate  that  never be perfect," she said. Steibe  
Four speakers examined various  women  are  brought up with such  stresses the importance of allowing  
facets of the modern role of women  fantasies. "It is easier to deal with  "your self to  nourish  your  body.  
in  a  forum  entitled  "Women's  reality  when  we  know  it  is  out  Your body is your best friend and  
Changing Roles-How Are We Af­ there," she said.  when there is a disorder your body  
fected?" last night in Carroll Hall at  Dr.  Susan  Steibe  spoke  at  the  is the first to know."  
Saint Mary's.  forum in a segment entitled "Stress,  Dr.  Rebecca  Stoddart,  Assistant  
Dr.  Nancy  Gulanick.,  visiting  Women's Bodies and Eating." In her  Professor  of  Psychology  at  Saint  
professor of psychology  at  Notre  work at the Psychological Services  Mary's, spoke on "The Second Stage  
Dame,  spoke  on  the  "Cinderella  Center  at  Notre  Dame,  Steibe  -New Directions in Family and  
Complex  -Myths and Realities."  studies three types of eating disor­ Career." Stoddart stated that "the  
She said "We as women have been  ders: anorexia, bulemia, and obesity.  combination of family  and  career  
brought up to believe  we  will be  "Eating disorders are most common  today is new and very different than  
taken care: of...'one day my prince  in women," according to Steibe, be­ the way our mothers did it. Today  
will come and transform my life'."  cause women are forced to deal with  women  are  entering  new  fields,  
She:  emphasized  the  difficulties  social pressures while seeking a cer­ 
women have when they are exposed  tain  perfection. "Those who seek  See FORUM, page 4  

'No solution' 



Students complain about phones 
ByDANKOPP  out."  Dillon  resident  Bob  Foley  call out at that time. There is no way  
News Staff  similarly complained, "I tried to call  we  and  the  telephone  company  
my mother on Valentine's Day, and I  could  provide  additional  trunks."  
The  jamming  of  long-distance  couldn't get through for forty-five  These trunks are the lines available  
tc:Iephone lines out of Notre Dame  minutes."  for the outgoing calls.  
after  11:00 p.m.  is  a common an­ Solfest charges, "The administra­ He added, "We have 160 trunk  
noyance, but there is no way to al­ tion must know that the system is  lines for the students, and that is  
leviate the problem, according to  very inadequate for the population  more than enough. There's nothing  
University officials.  at this school. Ofcourse, with the 65  we can do about it. Even ifwe asked,  
After  II  p.m.  Sunday  through  percent  decrease  in  rates  after  the phone company would not give  
Friday nights a 65 percent discount  11:00, students want to call then."  us additional trunks."  
on long-distance calls goes into ef­ Bro. Kieran Ryan, Asst. Vice Presi­ He noted further that with the  
fect. students complain of repeated­ dent  for  Business Affairs,  who  is  new  faculty phone system which  
ly getting an infuriating busy signal  responsible for the phone system at  was recently installed, the problem  
. when they try to dial out.  Notre Dame, said there is nothing  has  been  diminished  somewhat.  
Flanner  resident  Loren  Solfest  the administration can do.  Now the students no longer share  
said, "I have sat and dialed for fifteen  "We've got almost 6000 students  
to twenty minutes and not gotten  here and a ~ood  percenta~e try to  See PHONES, page 4  


three consecutive Wednesdays. Topics will include "ContemporaryHesburgh will travel to El Sal­Developments in Polish Theatre,"vador Friday as part of a State "The Theatrical Imagination ofDepartment-selected group chosen Tadeus Rozewicz," and "Acting Met­to observe that country's Sunday· hods as They Developed in the 20thelections. 
Century." 

Senatorialcandidate challenges CIA 's role 
By BOB VONDERHEIDE aware of the situation. "The way Associate News Editor the State Department has been handling the situation has been 
u.s. Senate candidate and behind the back of the public," Notre Dame graduate Mike Ken­said Gruscinski. dall will challenge the Senate to "We have been pumping in the 
investigate the Central Intel­wrong kind of aid," Gruscinski ligence Agency's role in said, "without investigating what Nicaragua during a speech it is being used for. Kendall feels tonight at 8:30 in the LaFortune we should be more accountable Little Theater. and more aware of what the U.S. 
Kendall will also present his is doing." overview on the trouble in Kendall, presently a state Central America, especially senator, declared his candidacy concerning Nicaragua and El Sal­early this year. If he defeats his vador. Kendall suspects that the one opponent in the primary, he CIA is more deeply involved in will face Senator Richard Lugar, causing disturbance in the area R-Ind this fall. than either the State Department Kendall recently moved his or the public knows. headquarters from Indianapolis 
Students for Kendall spokes­to South Bend because, accord­man Tom Gruscinski said that al­ing to Gruscinski, northern In­though there has been much diana will prove crucial in the private concern about Central primary race. America, Kendall is the first politician to challenge the While on campus, Kendall will government to investigate the also march in a procession com­CIA's role. memorating Archbishop 
Kendall believes that the Romero's assassination in El Sal-public must be made completely vador two years ago. 


News Briel§ 
By The Obseroer and The Associated Press 
Space shuttle Columbia was breaking its own mileage record yesterday, skimming the globe with two airsick astronauts and a stopped-up toilet. But tests went well and a flight chief said, "I'm confident we'll be able to fly the full duration." During their third day in space, astronauts Jack R Lousma and C. Gordon Fullerton were told, "The experimenters are all very excited about the excellent data they are getting." Fullerton responded that the thanks are due to the scientists "for putting out a good machine." Yesterday also was a big one for Todd Nelson, a Minnesota high school senior whose experiment was chosen from hundreds ofstudent entries. The astronauts were to haul out a plas­tic box with honeybees, caterpillar moths and flies, to see how they behaved in weightless space. Columbia had not gone past the 54­hour mark before -by design on flight one; because of a fuel cell breakdown on flight two. Flying a nose-to-sun thermal test, 150 miles high, Columbia would pass that milestone in its 37th orbit, late yesterday afternoon. The ship had traveled more than 31 million miles, and it showed. The toilet would not flush and there was an indication of a nitrogen leak in the cabin pressure system. A vital camera on the wrist ofthe robot arm still would not work; the cabin got too chilly again overnight; there was condensation on the back window; the experiments' tape recorder conked out; and an en­vironmental package would not work on the orbiter's power. -AP 
Actor Dennis Quaidis taking flying lessons and has visited Cape Canaveral, Fla, in prt:paration for his role in the movie The Right Stuff, to be based on the best-selling book by Tom Wolfe. Quaid, 28, a star of the film "Breaking Away," will play astronaut L. Gordon Cooper, who flew the last of the original Mercury series of 
U.S. manned space shots. Filming is to begin later this month. Quaid, borrowing a phrase from Wolfe's description of the rough-and­tumble life offighter pilots, said he expected Cooper to be a "fighter­jock type." But "what 1met was a scentist and an engineeras well as a pilot. He's brilliant," Quaid said of Cooper. Warner Bros. is making the film. The other six Mercury astronauts will be portrayed by ac­tors Charles Frank as Scott Carpenter; Scott Glenn as Alan Shepard; Ed Harris as John Glenn; Lance Henrickson as Wally Shirra; Scott 
Paulin as Deke Slayton; and Fred Ward as the late Gus Grissom. Also, actor Sam Shepard will portray pioneering test pilot Chuck Yeager. 
-AP 
A flood damage assessment team from the National Flood Insurance Program was scheduled to arrive today in Fort Wayne to speed up processing of flood insurance claims. Frances Norman, a spokeswoman for the government-run insurance agency at Bethesda, Md., said yesterday that private insurance company agents should forward notices ofloss to the progam's headquarters. But the claims must first be approved by a local adjustor, Mrs. Nor­man said. Processing of the claims may take up to six weeks, she added. Single families that took out emergency flood insurance policies are eligible for up to $35,000 on their home and S 10,000 on the contents. Meanwhile, single families that took regular policies are eligible for up to S185,000 on the structure and S60,000 on their homes' contents, Mrs. Norman said. More than 9,000 people were driven from their homes last week when melting snow and heavy 
rains swelled Fort Wayne's three rivers above flood stage. -AP 
Researchers say as many as half the people who take digitalis for congestive heart failure may not be helped by the medicine, one of the most widely prescribed drugs in the United States. Although it has been used since the 18th century and is now a mainstay in treating heart failure, digitalis had never been subjected to a rigorously controlled study to find out whether it really works, the researchers said. Doctors at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston conducted such a test on 25 heart patients and found that only those with a particular abnormal heart sound were helped by the drug. This abnormality, called a third heart sound, is present in about half of all Americans with congestive heart fuilure. An es­timated two million Americans have congestive heart failure. It oc­curs when the heart does not pump strongly enough, causing blood to back up in the lungs. Among the most common symptoms are shortness ofbreath and swelling ofthe ankles and legs. -AP 
Johnny andjoannaCarsonkicked in an undis­
closed donation and actor Rod Steiger took out a newspaper ad. The recipient ofthe aid was public television station KCET, which is "in Reagonomics right now," in the words ofthe station manager, David Crippens. The financing drive ofwhich the Carsons and Steiger were part raised $1.5 million in pledges, Crippens said. The money is to go toward making up for President Reagan's budget cuts. Reagan, Crip­pens said, "has not only cut back -we're losing Sl million to $2 · million next year -but you now have every non-profit group going after funding sources that were ours in years past." -AP 
Israelis shot and killed three more Arabs and wounded 10 yesterday in the worst day ofviolence in week-long rioting in the occupied West Bank of the Jordan and the Gaza Strip. It raised the toll to five Arabs dead and 21 wounded in six days. An Israeli border patrol also captured a squad of three Arab guerrillas en route from Lebanon to Israel's northern border, the military command said. A communique said the guerrillas, armed with Kalashnikov assault rifles, were captured without shooting after a pursuit north of the Hanita border settlement six miles east of the Mediterranean. 
Good chance ofSflOWtoday, becoming windy and cold. Temperatures remaining in the low to mid 30s. Chance of snow flurries and cold tonight and tomorrow. Lows tonight in the low to mid 20s. Highs tomorrow around 30. -AP 
Thursday, March 25, 1982-page 2 

Observing changes 

Spring has always been a time ofgreat change for The Obseroer and once again the transformation is under­way. During the next several weeks we will be undergo­ing a transition from the former administration headed by John McGrath to the new team which officially assumed control last Monday. The present Editorial Board consists of seasoned veterans who possess the necessary experience to confront and overcome the in­sistent battles inherent in producing a daily newspaper, with most of a supporting cast of some 200 writers, contributions we have been running this year. copyeditors, business personnel and production staff The features page, which has grown tremendously in staying on at least through the next year. popularity this past year, will continue to present high 


With the change in personnel will also come changes quality entertainment under the direction of Tari -some subtle and some obvious -in the overall con-Brown. As with the editorials page, Brown enthusiasti­cept ofThe Obseroer, changes which we feel will build cally invites any well-written essays and reviews, both upon and further the accomplishments achieved under light-hearted and serious, from all students and faculty. the McGrath administration. The features pages act as a creative outlet for the 
The news department, under the direction of Kelli writing of our readers, so if you like to write, let us Flint, has progressed a great deal during this past year. know. Syndicated columnists Andy Rooney and Gary We have not only acquired more writers, but have also Deeb will continue to appear frequently, as will the improved the quality of their writing. This latter ac-popular cartoons ofDennis Ryan and that great enigma, complishment is due in large part to the first student Ted Ozark. adviser The Obseroer has had in IS years, Walt Collins. Chris Needles brings three years of Obseroer ex-Collins has a reservoir ofexperience garnered through perience and a great enthusiasm for sports journalism 
many years of writing :an;~d~:!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~::; into his new position as editing for various Sports Editor. He has newspapers. "''"""'""':... , worked closely with a In order to increase com-,..,.,.•,...,..v,..,.,'''""" •··"• "'"' legacy ofgreat sports editors munication with the univer-_;~;~·~:~~~:.:::~;,,.,_. _t/ilflr Donu.J "•~kah.. uK 11 \l:\1~~~,:~ and will most certainly con­
1 

sity administration, Flint has .1.11< ''""'''"'"" '''"""n •~•«ntinue this tradition. For recently established a beat years The Obseroer has system, with an individual """"'"'·' """"~··' ""h''"' """'published one of the most 
reporter re "bl & (.ontru/f(•r Tom \bd.t·nnan
spons1 e •Or a "'"''"''""'"'comprehensive sports sec-certain department. tions of any college news department will also and Needles is be emphasizing more inves-determined to make it the 
tigative reporting, to better Department Managers best it's ever been. His first inform the students of im­
proving ground is approach­
Business Manager ....................... Tony AicUo 
Contmllrr ..........................................Enc Schulz 

AdwrtlsJns Manager............. ........Chris Owenwhich affect us all here at Productto" Manager ......Maura Murphy spring football just a couple 
CJrculaJion Manager.,._ ..................Ray JngljnNotre Dame. A special page Systems Manager ........ :................Bruce Oakley of days away. The sports Will be deVOted entirely tO portant issues and problems ing rapidly with the start of 
Features Editor ........ : •..•. ...............Tan Bmwn 

Photo Editor............................ .Rachel Blount Founded November 3, 1966 department will be provid­these in-depth articles. ;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;ij;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;__.ing complete coverage ofall Margaret Fosmoe, the Notre Dame sporting 
Saint Mary's Editor, is events, including in-depth determined to not only increase the coverage of SMC feature stories, as well as keeping you abreast of the events but also to get more Saint Mary's students in­latest in collegiate and professional sporting news. volved in all facets of The Obseroer. The Saint Mary's With the various departments working in clearly dif­
branch ofThe Obseroer, for years one of the best kept ferentiated areas, it proves to be quite a chore or­
secrets around, is located in the south end of Regina's chestrating all the stray instruments into one cohesive 
basement. and quality symphony. Managing Editor Ryan Ver 
Perhaps the most noticeable change that has taken Berkmoes has his work cut out for him each day in his 

place thus far has been with the editorial page. role as conductor, but he possesses the journalistic and 
Editorials Editor Paul McGinn has implemented a com­managerial experience to meet this challenge. 
pletely different style, both graphically and editorially. It is clear that the currentObseroer staffhas the deter­
In an attempt to create more of a forum ofideas which mination and the know-how to continue in the success­
directly affect the students and faculty of Notre Dame ful footsteps of its predecessors. But at the same time, 
and Saint Mary's, letters to the editor and contributed we're not about to rest on our laurels. We will always be 
essays will become much more common. After all, the striving to better and improve The Obseroer, and with 
purpose of The Obseroer has always been to serve the your help, we can do it. students and faculty. We invite any and all insights or opinions you may have concerning any issue. Another new addition to the editorial pages will be the witty, hard-hitting political cartoons of Pulitzer The views expressed in the Inside column are the Prize winnerJeffMac Nelly. MacNelly's artistry will aug­views of the author, and do not necessarily represent ment the syndicated Oliphant cartoons and the student the views ofThe Observer or its editorial board. 
Design Editor ....................... Monica Gugle Design Assistants ............... Marilyn Larkin Mike McCaughey Ed Carroll Typesetters .......................... Jim MacLennan AI Novas News Editor.................... Margaret Fosmoe CopyEdttors ........................... Joe Musmeci Tim Neely B&T Layout ...............................Alex Szilvas Sports Copy Editor........... Dzave Dziedzic Typist ...................................... Jeanine Hynes ND Day Editor .......................... Dave Grote SMC Day Editor .................Julia Trimarchi Ad Design ............ , .......................... Bob Slota Photographer ........................... Cheryl Erelt Guest t Appearances .......... Rob-Bob,Orti, Ry,Ex·Prod:now god Baby Tom Rachal Type  
The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS publ•shed Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary s Col· lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($t 5 per semester) by wnt1ng The Observer. P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved Second class postage ~a1d at Notre Dame. Indiana 46556  


.------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Thursday, March 25, 1982 -page 3
The Observer 
Four theories 

Yoder discusses pacifism 
By SONYA STINSON 
StaffReporter 
There is no single pacifist posi­tion, Prof. John Yoder explained in a lecture at the Hayes-Healy auditorium la.o;t night. 
Yoder described four theories of pacifism and proposed that they all agree on the moral injustice of the nuclear arms race and are grounded in the command to "love your enemy." "You can't communicate love to somebody by taking their life into your hands."Yoder said. 
The position Yoder calls "The New Law of Jesus" is found in the Sermon on the Mount and in other biblical texts. Yoder said that one of the most outstanding examples of 
this kind of pacifist wa.o; Leo Tolstoy. In addition, he said that this position has been represented by Christian minorities tor many centuries. 
The theory is based on the teach­ings ofJesus that man should love his enemies because God does, and that thLo; is the way man communicates to 
others who God is. "One way not to 
communicate to someone that God 
loves him is to kill him," Yoder said. 
The example of Jesus is of one 
who "chose not to take the path of 
righteous revolution but to confront 
the enemy with suffering love," 
stated Yoder. 
Another position is titled "Effective Social Involvement Through Non-Violent Power." Gandhi, Martin Luther King and Cesar Chavez are modern examples of this attitude, according to Yoder. Another group who are pacifists of this sort in practice, though not nec­
cessarily in philosophy, are what Yoder calls "minority politicians" and "advocacy agents." Their work "shows the effectiveness of non­violent activism in changing the world around them." 
"The Pacifism ofthe Honest Use of Just War Limits" is an instrument of criticism of war, not the legitimiza­
tion of it, according to Yoder. Three slogans exemplify the tendency of 

Saint Mary's seeks Pieta nominations 
Nominations are now being 
sou¢u from Saint Mary's students, 
faculty and administration for the 
Maria Pieta Award for teaching ex­
cellence in lower-division courses. 
Letters of nomination are con­
sidered by a special committee 
chaired by Susan Vanek, Freshman 
Academic Counselor. The commit­
tee is comprised of a broad base of 
campus individuals, including stu­
dents from many academic areas as 
well a.o; administrators. After screen­
ing all nominati tons, the committee 
will select a slate ofthree candidates 
to be submitted to th t e Academic Af­
fais Council for final consideration 
and selection ofthe recipiem. 
The award honors Sister Siste 
Maria Pieta, who graduated from 
Saint Mary's in 1922 and entered the 
Congregation of the Sisters of the 
Holy Cross. She spent most of her 
professional life serving the College 
in various capacities, Including teac­
her of journalLo;m, Dean of Students, 
Chairman of the Theology Depart­
ment, Director of the Staff Student 
program, vice president of the Col­
lege ( 1955-1965) and Alumnae­
College Coordinator until her 
retirement in 1969. 

In addition to being a highly com­petent teacher, Sister Maria Pieta wa.'> also renowned for her strong devotion as a friend and counselor to-all who sought her. 
In order to reflect the personal contribution made to Saint Mary's College by Sister Maria Pieta, letters of nomination arc to consider several aspects of the charaacter of each candidate: what qualities in a teacher make him or her stand out as a nominee; how a teacher ha.o; chal­lenged and stimulated growth; what long-term effect this individual as had on students in terms of their education, values, and goals. 
First given In 1976 to Sr. Cecilia Ann Kelly, professor of art, the award has since honored the teach­ing excellence of Dorothy FeiMI (chemistry), Isis Quinteros 


m-mww~ 
wy~ant ~loRal co. 
3271Jncotnway 
(modem languages), Unnea Vacca (English), Mark Bambenek (chemistry), and Penny Jameson (psychology). 
Lists of eligible faculty members have been distributed in each of the residence halls, and letters of nomination are due in the Freshman Office, 121 LeMans Hall, by April 2. 



even pacifists of this type to con­clude that almost no war is just. "Nuremburg," "Hiroshima" and "Vietnam" are terms that often come up in discussions of the morality of war, he commented. 
"The Resistance of an Alternative Culture" is the path taken by people like Dorothy Day and Daniel Ber­rigan, according to Yoder. Their way of life usually has dimensions of poverty, contemplation, and coun­terculture. 
These people believe that ordi­nary democratic ways of changing things will no longer work, so they often use the language of the Holocaust and the Apocalypse to say that "the world is going crazy and is about to commit suicide," Yoder said. 
Yoder's lecture was pan ofa series 
Martha Kuntashi works on her softball catching skills during
sponsored by the Office of Campus 
SoutbBend'sthirdstraightspring-likeday. Thew t eatberseroicehas
Ministry. 
predicted snowfor today. (photo by Cheryl Ertelt) 



Gilllectures on working women 
TONI RUTHERFORD 
News Staff 
Professor Penny Gill lectured at Moreau little theater la.~t night on the topic of "American Women's Lives and Work" ao; part of the Justice Education lecture series. 
Gill's talk centered on the in­justices in regards to women in the work force. Much ofher lecture cen­tered on PopeJohn Paulll's Encycli­cal. According to this work is a 

2 Drafts for S 1 O(DMILWAUKEE 

ANYrHING GROW_$ 
FlORIST -campus delivery 
HOUSE PLANTS GIFIS. TELEFLORIST 
WIRE FLOWERS · 
get your hall formal 
.272-8820 
f.l..IRONWOOD at 
TOLL RO@ DIREClLY EAST of CAMPUS 

corsages and boutonnieres· 114mLN. of D9ug1as 
free delivery to stepan center t· -.-··---·---......_.. . -.-·· ... ­
I PRESENT THIS COUPON"'' I I 25% discount on all hou~ plants. I 
I ND-.SMC I 
I I
I . I 
~------------------------~­

means for developing full humaness. With a definition of work a.o; "work done for money," housework and child rearing are excluded, leaviing women with "no opportunity to develop their full humaness." 
According to studies done by the Department of Labor, the median weekly salary of a well-paid white male is $357, while it is only 1226 for a white woman. Salaries ofblacks are much lower. The median income ofa single parent household with two children is 18 thousand when headed by a woman and 123 thousand when run by a man. 

Gill stressed the way in which gender roles are learned at an early age. She cites as an example dinner at a friend's house. It was the twelve year old boy's turn to do the dishes and he resisted. He asked Gill to do them and when she asked why he replied,"'But Penny, girls don't 
See WOMEN, page 4 



Godfather's Pizza... 


DELIVERING to NOTRE DA~IE and SAINT MARY'S 
Or.Jc•r thc•/'.\1'/?F\.\ /)r/.1\F/?\: 
Medium, -pepperoni 
-sausage 
sPm -JO:lOPm
Or combo 
ftl. and Sat. 
,u~&l n·,·l'ir·c· yui,·k,·r .'H't"l'i..·t• 
5Pm -12:30Am lrtt Coke: 1Liter wiMed. Pi111 aLiterswlLarge Pilla 

The Observer Thursday, March 25, 1982-page 4 







f--~---------------­


Members ofDr. Me Intosh's General Ecology Lab ran tests on water temperature, depth and oxygen content in the St. joseph's Lake (photo by Cheryl Ertelt) 
The Brady-Stalker 
String Duo will present an evening of 
chamber music Thursday, 
March 25, at 8:00 p.m. 
in Little Theater 
Stephen Stalker, · 
cellist, is adjunct professor of 
music at Colgait! University 
and SUNY-Birmingham, and 
is the principal cellist for the 
Utica Symphony. He has 
playe~ with the American 
Symphony of the Air andJanet Brady, violinist, was a member of the 

teaches in the string program Madison Quartet.
at SUNY-Birmingham. and is concert master for the Utica 

Symphony. She has appeared 
Resen~ations, Information 
as guest soloist with Call the Office of symphonic orchestras in Special Programs

Syracuse, Scranton, Oneota and Bowling Green. 
284-5787 
Tickets $4.00 Adult S2.00 Student 

Admission Free for Saini Mary's Students 
---------------~-----------------~----­
ICELINDIIR lmODUCES 
IIEW BIROIIN FIRES TO 
MORE OF EUROPE. 
WXEMBOURB PARIS___, 


'4118 '581 
• IDTIIP -DTRIP 
fROM CHICAGO FROM CHICAGO 
ZURICH FRIIKFURT 

'588 '557 
.IDTRIP -IDTRIP 
FROM CHICAGO FROM CHICAGO 
All Apex Far~o: April I· May 14. 1982. 7-90 day stay (7-60 days Lux~m­boura). Stopovers prrmllt~d in both dirtct1ona. 14 day advance purchase r~quir~d. Seou limited. Ask about our low cost Normal. Same Day, and Group lar~s. ton. 
ALSO LOW COST CONNECTING SERVICE TO NICE AND AMSTERDAM. 
lcelandair to Lu\embourg. Luxair or Crossair connecting service 
to other destinations. 
• 
Confirmed reservation. • Free wine with dinner, cognac after. 

• 
Bargain Stopover Tours of Iceland and Luxembourg. • Bargain car rentals. • Purchase tickets in u.s. • All fares subject to change and government approval. 


Set yuur travel IKtnt or rall8001555·1212 for the toll free lcelanda1r nurnber m )'OUr arett. 
ICELANDAIRI6 
NOW MORE THAN EYER YOUR BEST VALUE TO EUROPE 
On oilcontrols 
Senate sustains Reagan veto 
WASHINGTON (AP) The Republican-ruled Senate voted yes­terday to sustain President Reagan's veto of a bill giving him emergency oil-control powers he said he did not want. 
The vote was 58 to 36 to override, far less than the two-thirds margin required to enact a law over a presidential veto. 
The veto was the first of the three 
Reagan has cast since taking office to 
be challenged in either chamber. 
Coming after what Senate sources 
said was a heavy, last-minute lobby­
ing blitz by the White House, the 
Senate vote alone sustained the veto 
-eliminating the need for action on 
the veto in the Democratic-led 
House. 
The bill would have given the president powers he insisted he did not want: authority to allocate crude oil supplies and impose price con­trols during severe shortages. 
Congress gave the president this authority in the mid-I970s, but it lapsed last September 30 -with the administration making no moves to seek its reenactment. 
Reagan, claiming that Americans have been hun by past efforts to all­ocate fuel supplies, vetoed the bill last Saturday, even though Republican Senate leaders had warned him an override was likely. 
Sen. James McClure, R-Idaho, told 
the Senate not to vote to sustain the 
veto out of"blind loyalty" to Reagan. 
McClure said the legislation . is 
needed for the federal government 
to cope with a major oil disruption, 
like another oil embargo, whether 
Reagan wants the authority or not. 
The dispute may have been large­
ly symbolic, since the legislation did 
not require the president to use the 
authority he doesn't want -author· ity that would expire at the end of uption of a significant ponion of his term anyway. foreign energy supplies...will in­
"The arguments made by the volve real costs," Reagan said in his president in his veto message are not veto message. "No magic federal persuasive," McClure said. plan can simply make them go 
"We must recognize that an inter-away." 
... Women 
continuedfrom page 3 
miind doinng dishes, and boys do, so it must be girl's work.'" The images taught ofwomen's work are housework, child rearing, cooking, and repetitive tasks that re­quire manual dexterity. Gill prefers to use the image of a gardener for both sexes. " A gardener tends the 
garden,  transplants  the  young  
shoots,  and  prunes  the  diseased  
plants."  Women  have  been  

categorized as meant for that type of work: waitressing, teaching, nursing, 
, , .Phones 

continuedfrom page 1 
the same trunks as the administra­
tion and other departments of the 
university. 
Grojean explained that his suc­cessful solution to the problem is to call the operator and find out when it is exactly II:00. Then he suggests making the cal~ avoiding the rush. "Most people wait a couple minutes after 11:00 before they dial, just to make sure they get the cheaper rate," he said. 
and social work. But, according to Gill, "Both the masculine and the feminine side must be in right relationship.'' This means that both men and women must show both sides of their nature. 
... Forutn 

continuedfrom page 1 
working at different stages in their lives, are required to achieve while at work, and finally to perform not just as women, but as people." 
Stoddart emphasized the impor­tance of reevaluating a woman's work at home. "There must be new modes of child care. And employers are going to have to adapt to the changing family structure," she said. According to Stoddart, this social stage must be reached to allow someone less than a "Superwoman" to perform to the best ofher ability. 
The reactions of men toward these changes in society were dis­cussed by Dr. Ruth Ann Parvin, professor of psychology at Indiana University at South Bend. Parvin em­phasized that women must learn these changes in their role are affect­ing all ofsociety, particularly men. 

DRAFT BEER SPECIAL 



$35.00 


(INCLUDES KEG OF BEER, TAP, 50 cups, ICE, & SALES TAX)* 
Your Choice BUD BUDLIGHT, BUSCH, NATURAL, STROH'S 
'_'UNITED';· 
The Beer Co . 
287-1067 

Daily 8:.30-4:30­Sat. 11 :30-1:30 (NEWCONVENIENI' HOURS) 
Michelob/ MICH·LIGHT $40.00 Heineken $66.00 \ *(Does not include any deposit charges) 
\ 


-------~-~---~--~---~-­
---------~---~ 
The Observer 
New Stepan building serves grad research 
By VIC SCIULLI 
Nlgbt News Editor 
The newly-built Stepan Chemistry Building will serve primarily as a graduate reseach center, more than doubling the present research space at Notre Dame. 
Discussions for the four-story 
graduate research building began In 
1965, but it was not until 1980 that 
construction actually began. 
Prior to Stepan's opening, most of 
the graduate research in chemistry 
occurred in Nieuwland Science Hall 
and the old Chemistry Building. The 
65-year-old laboratories in the 
Chemistry Building have undergone 
periodic renovations over the years 
but are, for the most part, in very 
poor condition. Research taking 
place in the building has been trans­
ferred to Stepan. The old building 
will be turned over for use by the art 
department. 
The new complex will provide more space, electrical power and ventilation than the older facilities. THe amount of hood and bench space has also increased. Located 
every 50 feet on each floor are service chases, in which electrical and ventilataion services for the labs originate. The service ·chases provide maximum flexibility and will allow for the easy redesigning of individual labs. 
The building's first four floors are devoted to physical chemistry, inor­ganic and physical chemistry, or­ganic chemistry, and bichemistry. 
Thursday, March 25, 1982-pa~e5 
Faculty conference and office rooms are available on each floor. There are no classes or lecture rooms in the new hall. The building's top floor and basement house electrical and mechanical equipment. 
Occupants of the building are very pleased with the new structure. Dr. Subhash Basu, involved in cancer research, feels the space increase is Stepan's greatest asset. Basu said he and his research associates were ex­tremely cramped in the old labs. 
Dean of the College of Science Francis Castellino called Stepan "a first-class building in every way." He gives much credit to the chemistry department, which pushed for the building, and for the Administra­tion's confidence in the project. 
Castellino believes that a facility such as Stepan is necessary for a top­flight research program and that it will attract more graduate and postdoctoral students to the Univer­sity. 
In recent coup 
Guatemalan military junta abolishes constitution 

GUATEMALA CITY (AP) -The power from a rightist military new military junta threw out regime that had governed under a Guatemala's constitution yesterday succession of generals chosen in and suspended all political party ac­tainted elections -would rule by tivities but promised to respect decree until further notice. human rights, the state radio said. The junta planned to announce a 
The radio announcement said the "statute of government" under three-man junta -which seized which it would operate until a new 
Imposes martiallaw 

Annyseizespowerin Bangladesh 
CALCUTTA, India (AP) Bangladesh's army chief seized power yesterday in an apparently bloodless coup after pressuring the 
civilian government for months to oust corrupt officials, Radio Bangladesh reported. 
Lt. Gen. Hussain Mohammad Er­shad clamped martial law on the im­poverished country of 90 million people and proclaimed himselfhead of the government, the official radio in the capital city of Dacca said in broadcasts monitored in this Indian port city. 
Ershad, in an afternoon address to the nation, said deposed President Abdus Sattar had failed to cleanse his adminLo;tration of corruption when the army forced him to restructure his Cabinet last month and as a result, Bangladesh was "facing a crisis on every front -economic, political, social and law and order." 
"This government has completely failed," the 52-year-old career of­ficer said. "The people expect the army to come to their aid." 
Sattar, 75 and in fragile health, spoke on the radio prior to Ershad and conceded that "the situation in Bangladesh has reached the state where in the interest of the Bangladesh people, military rule has become necessary." 
Sattar's present status was not clear. The United News of India quoted unidentified sources as saying he was under house arrest in the capital. 
Communication links with the country, located at the top ofthe Bay of Bengal and bordered b~ India and Burma, were severed early in the morning and remained out hours later. 
UN/ said Indian border patrols were placed on "full alert" along the 1,500-mile-long northea.~tern bor· der to monitor the situation in Bangladesh. Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, in London for an In­
dian festival, expressed fears about 
possible  outside  interference  in  
Bangladesh,  but  did  not  say  by  
whom.  

Radio Bangladesh said Dacca remained calm under a dusk-to­dawn curfew and with troops in con­trol of all key points. Government offices were closed. 
Ershad, who suspended the con­stitution and dissolved Parliament, said elections would be held soon to pick a new president. He said a coun­cil would be formed to advise him and indicated the new chief of state would be someone who would take direction from the military. 
Predominantly Moslem Bangladesh has had a stormy history since it won independence from Pakistan in late 1971. A series of natural disasters battered its agricul­tural economy and massive infiu­sions of foreign aid were needed to feed the exploding population. 
The great poverty of Bangladesh, which has a per capita income of about n 00, has fueled a series of military coups. 
~-------------------~--------~
aJ4t IWigl}ts Dftl}t C!!astlt 1~ 
.. ~._ For the Total Look on a Stvled II Hair Cut,Shampoo, Blow Dry f & Condition 1 1 
~. ... Reg. $15.00 I 
CA~ ...M--·•-SI.MDI N $ I 
~~;,~~T ow cl~~~~. I 

·-----------------------------· 
51st ANNIVERSARY 
ROCKNE MEMORIAL MASS &BREAKFAST Sunday,April4, 1982 
MASS: 8:15AM, South Dining Hall BREAKFAST: 9:15 AM South Dining Hall . GUEST SPEAKER Coach Jerry Faust 
SPECIAL GUESTS Members of the Rockne Family 1982 Football Tri-Captains: Phil Carter, Dave Duerson, Mark Zavagnin 
SPECIAL FEATURE During breakfast there will be a screening of a recent Knute Rockne documentary film 
narrated by actor CliffRobf;!rtson For additional information call the Alumni Office at (219) 239-6000, or Tom Kirschner (in the evening) at 234-3 790. 
constitution is written and ratified, the radio said 
A six-man advisory council of military men, believed to represent the junior officers who spearheaded the overthrow of Gen. Fernando Romeo Lucas Garcia's regime in Tuesday's bloodless coup, was named yesterday. They include of­ficers from the army and air force, ranking from colonel to second lieutenant. 
Hours after the coup, the junta dissolved Guatemala's 61-seat single-house Congress. Yesterday's announcement prohibits all ac­tivities by political parties. 
Lucas Garcia's government often was accused of widespread human rights abuses in the fight against left­ist guerrillas. 
Critics abroad claimed that the government tolerated the work of the rightist "death squads," vigilantes who hunted leftists or suspected leftists. About 300 people a month died In political violence last year, most ofthem thought to be victims of the death squads. 
Because the Guatemalan govern­ment refused to accept human rights conditions, the United States has not sent military aid since 1977. 
In Washington, the Reagan ad­ministration reacted cautiously. State Department spokesman Dean Fischer said the United States is monitoring the situation carefully and the U.S. embassy In Guatemala "is in touch with elements across the political spectrum." 
Sell Nominat1on for 
Joint Engineering Council 
4 officer positions open all engineering students eligible 
forms available in Dean"S office Return by March 26 Election Night March 29 

r--~-----­
1. 
... 
' 
. " 






Business & Technology_,_Thu_rsda_r,M_arch_2s,_l98_2_pag_e6 
Engineering Update 
The Chemical Engineering Staffat the Uni­versity of Notre Dame is one of the new recipients of the Amoco Foundation, Inc. faculty grants. The grants are aimed at relieving a nationwide shortage of engineering and geoscience faculty and graduate students, and the growing problem ofequipment obsoles­cence. The foundation has added 11 engineering faculty grants of 
S20,000 a year for three years and is continuing in its second year of 
the program at four other schools. This brings Amoco Foundation's 
contributions commitment for engineering and geoscience educa: 
tion to S5 million. -The Observer 


Economic Update 
The Department of Agriculture does not know what to do about a price support program that has left the Government holding huge stockpiles of dairy products at a cost to taxpayers of more than $2 billion a year, a department official said today. "We have no program or plan to annou,nce," Deputy Agriculture Sectretary Ricard E. Lyng said at the beginning ofa two­day national symposium ondairy farming. "We 1strongly believe this is something that must be settled jointly by the industry and the Government." The department estimates that by October, it will hold 479 million pounds ofbutter, 889 million pounds ofcheese and 
1.3 billion pounds of nonfat dry milk. The support program, under which the Government buys about 1 0 percent of national dairy production, is expected to cost more than S2.2 billion this year. ­
AP 


Wall Street Update 
The Stock Market turned downward near the close yesterday, pulling backafter its strongest rally sofar in 1982. Trading slowed from Tuesday's very active pace. Analysts noted that there had been some positive news in recent days on interest rates and inflation. Several banks lowered their broker loan rates Tuesday and Wednesday, and the government reported that the consumer price index rose only 0.2 percent in February. But brokers said traders remained wary about prospects for any early recovery from the recession. The DowJones average of30 industrials, up 30.82 points in the past four sessions, dropped 3.33 to 823.34. Declines outnum­bered advances by 7 to 6 on the New York Stock Exchange. Big Board volume totaled 49.38 million shares, against 67.13 million in the previous session. -AP 
Interest rates qepress economy 
By JOHN CUNNIFF 
APBusiness Analyst 
Americans earned $315 billion in 

interest income in 1981, about $55 
billion more than 1980 and twice 
what they earned from that source 
in 1977. That's the positive side of 
high interest rates. 
The negative aspect, says Jack 

Lavery, who last year became chief 
economist of Merrill Lynch, is that 
any real upturn in the economy 
awaits lower interest rates. 
To bring that_ about, says Lavery, 

he assumes President Reagan will be 
willing to compromise on defense 
spending and maybe on Social 
Security, thus reducing fears that 
federal spending is out of hand. 
He does concede the economy is 

vulnerable to a deeper-than an­
ticipated decline because of 
weaknesses in corporate balance 
sheets, savings and loans, and state 
and local governments. 
He respects the Reagan plan; feels 

that it is on course toward at least 
two and probably three of four 
major goals; looks for a short-lived, 
consumer-led recovery in the 
second-half of 1982, followed by 
renewed weakness in early 1983; 
and expects a sustained recovery 
later in 1983, when corporations 
might invest heavily. 
Lavery isn't excited about the ex­

pected consumer-led recovery in 
!fti~ye~'s second half. 
In fact, he says, if it weren't for the tax cut there might be no recovery at all this year. 
Without compromises, and with­out lower interest rates, he fears the economy may be vulnerable to fur­ther declines. 
Meanwhile, he says, the Reagan 
ROBERT MAROVICH 
News Staff 
The Distinguished Scientist Lecture Series continued last night with a lecture and slide show delivered by Dr. Erhard Winkler on "Acid Rain and the Decay of Monu­ments." 
Using graphs, tables, and photographs, Winkler, professor of geology, defined acid rain and its ef­fects upon the present decay of 




Expert discusses acid rain decay 
program is working. stone structures, many of these on 
~,,,,,,....................................................................................... ...............................................,
~ 

Ii  Ihe~  ~i  
~I ~  DELIVERYDRIVERSNEEDED STARTIMMEDIATELY  I ~ I  
~ 01'-·iCALL RAY AT239-7471  3HOURSONWEEKDAYS PAID POSITION  ~ ~  

:-.-...................................................................................................................................................., 

the Notre Dame campus. He said that acid rain is the combination of acidic materials such as carbonic acid and sulphurous acid with rain or fog. 
Acid rain, Winkler explained, began to create noticeable damage during the Industrial Revolution. Firing of sulfur, the processing of crude oil, fossil fuels, and aerosols have contributed to the ever­decreasing pH in the rain. The low pH, he said, is also harmful to crops, vegetation, soils, and our health. "Acid rains tend to wash out the at­mosphere ...and the pollutant air masses are moving slowly east." 
Winkler emphasized the problems acid rain causes monu­ments made of sandstone with photographs of carvings in the in­dustrial Rhine-Rhur area of Ger­many. However, he said that "terrible problems ofdecay" such as those evidenced in structures in Venice are also created by salt water evaporation and rock salts. Winkler studied salt margins above the entrance to Sacred Heart Church and Cavanaugh Hall; salts, he ex­plained, retain moisture, causing 
decay that can practically be flaked off 
Stress relief, Winkler said, is also a cause of decay. He said that upon studying tombs in New Orleans, he discovered what he thought to be simply acid rain decay to be buck­ling off geologically stressed stone. "When the stone becomes more 
porous,  expansion  makes  the  
structure buckle."  
To  eliminate  the  exponential  

decay of stone monuments and structures, Winkler said that pol­lutants should be eliminated "by shifting from fossil fuel to other power resources such as nuclear, solar, and wind, and strengthening stone with silica." 
Dr. Winkler, a native of Austria, graduated from the University of Vienna with a Ph.D. in geology. He joined the Geology Department at Notre Dame in 1948. Author of "Stone Properties, Durability in Man's Environment", Winkler is cur­rently researching attempts to preserve stone from corrosive agents. His research has also been conducted at the Field Museum of Natural History in Chicago. He has done work in many fields, such as micropaleontology and site geology. 

-

---------------------------------------,­



Editorials 
_!hursday, March 25, 1982 -pag~ ? 
Post Office Box Q  
Destruction muststop! Dear Editor, As members of educational in­stitutions in the Christian tradition, In his recently published address· we are called to stand for human dig­to the faculty, entitled "A Great nity and human life; as individual Catholic University: A Persistent faculty members and as Catholic in­Dream," President Hesburgh cau­stitutions, we must say in a way that tioned that concern for intellectual will be clear to "those who know the growth must be joined with care for price of everything and the value of moral integrity. "Those," he said, nothing" that we do not stand with "who profess all this by their words them against the people of El Sal­must also profess it by their lives, vador. We believe that the present which means we must teach by what regime in Wa~hington is sponsoring we are as much as by what we say.'' the military and social destruction of Since we are challenged by Fr. El Salvador and that it must stop -Hesburgh in regard to our moral in­now! tegrity I think it is high time that this Catholic university and its sister in­Yours sincerely, stitution, Saint Mary's College, Ann Clark manifest their concern about the Associate Professor of Philosophy suffering and dying of our sisters and St. Mary's College brothers in El Salvador. As we all lind ourselves implicated in the William G. Storey military obliteration of a pea~ant and Professor ofTheology agrarian society, and once again our University of Notre Dame taxes being used to increase the body! count, we must all speak out and say and 60 other professors from Notre that it is not done with our consent. Dame and Saint Mary's. Student defends Hesburgh Dear Editor, Over the past 30 years it has ·been Father Hesburgh who has done the I was quite pleased with the most to project this "helping hand" favorable light cast upon Father Hes­image from this University. Per­burgh on March 14th's 60 Minutes sonally, I would rather have our caption. However, I'd like to President doing everything he can to respond to the criticism that Hes­assist the poor, the oppressed, the burgh received from a couple of stu­sick, the hungry, and the under­dents during that segment. Those priveleged people of this world. students complained that the Univer­Surely there are more diplomatic sity President does not take a more means of settling our differences active role in settling student with Father Hesburgh over student problems because he spends too concerns. Let's use those means in­much of his time away from the stead of attacking him, which neither campus. does us nor Father Hesburgh any One of Notre Dame's major good whatsoever. strengths is its image ofcaring for the less fortunate people of this world. Ed Sheeran  

El Salvador: a lack of alternatives 
In a two-part essay, senior Jim McGillivray examines El Salvador as a product of Third World problems, explaining the most practical ways in which the U.S. should deal with the situation. 
The situation in El Salvador is dai­
ly deteriorating and public opinion in 
the U.S. is polarizing. Similarities 
with Viet Nam are brought out and 
discussed as we are drawn further in­
to the Civil War with greater military 
and economic committments. 
President Reagan has chosen El Salvador to be a major confrontation with the Red Tide. He has decided in John Wayne/Robert Conrad battery­on-the-shoulder fashion that we will do whatever we have to in order to keep El Salvador. Now what he means by keeping El Salvador probably has something to do with maintaining non-communism. 
The "whatever-it-takes" attitude means we will suspend our concern with inalienable rights and freedom and other trite American cliches to keep El Salvador finnly in our camp. · What we fail to see, and have always failed to see, is that the world is not "us and "them. 
Many groups of people do not want to play our game. Most, includ­ing many Americans, are not aware of what the "game is all about at its most subtle levels. Unfortunately, our government seems to rank among the uninfonned. 
Reagan, Haig and the rest seem to have no concept of what rebel troops are fighting about in El Salvador. It_ is not because they particularly want to be Communist. It is not even be­cause government troops murder, rape and loot at will, though I am sure that has something to do with it. 
Jim McGillivray 
The real underlying issue in El Sal­vador and throughout much of the Third World is land refonn. Land has been the cause of revolt since the ear­liest liberation movements among Latin American peasants. 
But land reform smacks of com­
munism and we will not allow it, 
though Duane has been able to some 
very good things with land refonns. 
Facts and figures are hard to assert 
in El Salvador right now; everyone is 
lying through his teeth. It is a fairly 
sate bet that a small percentage of the 
population controls a great deal ofthe 
wealth. 

It can also be assumed that peasant workers are being exploited, at least 
by American standards of pay, stan­
dard of living, etc. So they are upset 
and they fight and scream 
"Communist." 
El Salvador rebels, like all such armies, get their weapons where they can. They buy them in the U.S. and buy or are given them by Cuba through other Central American 
countries. 
Reagan's overly simplistic world view translates Marxist aid into Mar­xism. This has not come about ­yet. The rebels are looking for help and will take whatever they can get. 
It would be difficult to see how the 
rebels could think much of America 
or Capitalism. We proide the 
weapons and aid that keep them in 
their place -for now. 
People in El Salvador do not enjoy 
freedom of the press, political 
processes, freedom of religion or any 
other civil right we had to revolt 
against a lawful sovereignity for. 
Is it any wonder they have turned to Cuba and the Left? They know the deal we offer them. Think of it in tenns of people, not in tenns of political idealogies that no one un­derstands. 
Tomorrow, part two: America's response. 


University aid for University cost$? 
The closing date for the filing of 
Financial Aid forms has passed, and 
students can only look to the sky and 
hope for some type of help. 
Each year students are sent letters from the University showing how little it costs to come here, when compared with the expenses at most other private colleges. Just when we become preoccupied with a sense of false security, we get hit with another increase. Tuition and housing are 
presently near $7200 (as we all know too well). With the addition of the cost of books, travel and incidentals, the sum total ofone year's education­al expenses is staggering. 
In t the past, the rising costs were met by increases in financial aid, but as college expenses are continuing to go up, the sources of aid are begin­ning to dry up. The Reagan ad­ministrati .on's proposed cut will make the BEOG something that can only be found in an historical museum. Loans are becoming harder to obtain. Interest rates are scheduled to rise to rates that make them prohibitive for prospective bor­rowers. With economic times being 
~as difficult as they are, the picture is 
! 
-
-:--~-~ 

-·-. -_ --~­
. -
-= --;--: ­
"Don't cross this line." 


bleak not only for future collegians, but also for those who are in the middle of their higher education. 
This trend of higher costs for education with decreased financial aid can lead to only one thing -a college education will become some­
.Edward Konrady RandyFahs 
thing that o~y the rich will be able to afford. Our higher educational sys­tem will become another elitist mec­hanism which maintains class divisions, as well as preventing many people from developing their talents. The problem will become acute at private institutions like Notre Dame, where the average family income is already nearly twice that of the na­tional average. Minorities and stu­dents from lower incomes, already few and far between, may become a non-entity here. What about the stu­dents who have already begun their education at Notre Dame -will they be able to complete it here? 
The number of people affected by tJigh educational costs is immemnse. 
What can be done? On the national · front, we can only hope that wisdom will prevail and that educational aid will not be cut back to a trickle. As students we must put pressure on the government, but will it be enough to stem the tide? We challenge Notre Dame to step in and pick up the slack. The university is obligated to do everything that it can to remedy the problem. Christian morality and Notre Dame ideals should im­mediately suggest that our university would be leading the charge to lessen the tremendous burdens which have been placed upon the students~ finan­cial resources. Notre Dame must maintain its credibility as a fine in­stitution of learning by attracting the finest possible student body ­regardless of individual ability to pay. 
The administration has said that aid is on its list of priorities, but solu­tions must be wrought now, before even a single person goes elsewhere because of financial reasons. Many private universities Jack the financial clout to aid their students, but Notre Dame is fortunate to have a sizeable and growing endowment fund. The endowment is presently around $220 million, accruing approximately 19 percent interest a year. Of this net gain, a mere 5 percent is put back into the pot to defer the costs of running the university. 
We will concede that grants and low interests loans will not yield a 19 percent return in any year, but in the long run, the people who graduate from Notre Dame will contribute more than the university would hope to gain fro~ its investments. 


f&.,.j~ ~CM 

Editorial Board Department Managers 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the 
Editor·in-Chief..............................Michael Monk Business Manager .............................Tony Aiello University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily 
Managing Editor..........,.....Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller ................................ : ............Eric Schulz reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report· 
Executive News Editor.........................Kelli Flint Advertisinp Manager.......................Chris Owen ed as accurately an,d as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of 
SMC News Editor..................... Margaret Fosmoe ProductionManager...................Maura Murphy a majority of the Editorial Board. Co.nmentaries, opinions and letters are the views 
Sports Editor...................................Chris Needles Circulation Manager ..........................Ray lnglin of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and 
Editorials Editor .............................Paul M~Ginn Systems Manager .........•..................Bruce Oakley the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, ii eocoun.ged. Features Editor ...................................Tari Brown 
Photo EditQr ...................................Rachel Blount Founded November 3, 1966 
P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 

p 
-~-~-­
r 


Sports~B~r:;r,~·e~{~~s~===;~==========Th=u=rs=da=y=,M==ar=ch=2=5=,1=98=2=p=ag=e=8 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
The ND-SMC Sailing Club is opening its spring season by hosting the annual Freshman Icebreaker Regatta this weekend, March 25-27. Any first-year sailors who would like to race in this regatta should contact J.B. at 8228. Also there will be an or­ganizational meeting tonight at 6:30 p.m. in the Howard Hall social space -all sailors interested in competing in the regatta must at­tend. Anyone interested in joining the Sailing Club is encouraged to attend. -The Obseroer 
Innertube Water Polowill hold a mandatory cap­tain's meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in the Farley Hall basement. -The Observer 
Women's Bookstore Basketball will begin 
soon. Registration will be held today from 7-8:30 p.m. in the 
LaFortune lobby. Teams should pay the $1 entry fee at this time. ­
The Observer 

Water Polo Club will practice today from 6-8 p.m. at the Rockne Pool. Practice will also be held Monday from 4-6 p.m. ContactJohn at 7816 ifyou have any questions.-The Observer 
St. Mary's softball team took a doubleheader at Butler yesterday by scores of 11-6 and 6-3. Mary Bayless was the winning pitcher of the first game, striking out six. Mary Beth Hosinski won the nightcap. St. Mary's will, host Notre Dame this Saturday at 1 p.m. -The Observer 
Notre Dame volleyball coach sandy 
Vanslager has announced that Mary Lynne McLaughlin, a standout prep volleyball player from Santa Barbara, Calif., will enroll next fall. McLaughlin was the captain and most valuable player ofher team as a senior and won all-league honors twice. -The Observer 
A mandatory meeting of one representative of each Bookstore Basketball team will be held on Monday, March 29, at 7 p.m. in the Memorial Library Auditorium. Schedules will be dis­tributed and rules discussed at this tim~. -The Observer 
l 
Navratilova wins 

All matches must be played and reported to the NVA office by 1 p.m. Wednesday, March 31. If your name is not listed, that means you have a bye and should check next Thursday's Observer for your next 

25th straight match 
match. 
Men' a Recquetbllll Doubles 

said after she disposed of Bunge in Pineda (8717)/Shank (8717) v. Power (3306)/Simpson (3370) 
NEW YORK (AP) -Martina Nav­
the doubl-elimination portion ofthe
ratilova began her march towards a R~gali (6764)/Power (1654) v. P1erce (1424)/Pfan Avon tour finale. "Bettina didn't play (1432)
second consecutive title in the 
Callahan (3361)/Mulligan (3345) v. Burton$300,000 Avon Championships by (8284)/Bruggeman (8292) 
as well as she can. She was pressing." The Czechoslovakian native Mixed Doubles
crushing Bettina Bunge, 6-1, 6-2 in double-faulted twice in the opening 
Croke (234-2880)/Conway (277-3371) v. Cun­
only 50 minutes. 
neen (1841)/Legeay (8055) 

Top-seeded in the select eight­game, one of the few mistakes she OpenRecquetball made all day. But she reeled off the Dave Jakopin (8170) v. John Regalbuto (288­
player women's tennis field, Nav­
0431)

first five games before Bunge, a
ratilova ran her winning streak to 25 Tom O'Connor (8267) v. Tony Pierce (1424) bundle of unforced errors, held Dave Yordy (3439) v. Tish Almeida (7859) 
in advancing to today's meeting 
Tom Chambers (8895) v. Lynn Conway
against fourth-seeded Wendy serve. (277-3371) Turnbull of Australia Navratilova, Navratilova, who became a U.S. Chris Packer (3889) v. Bnan Heamey (3113) Mark QUigley (3177) v. Jack E1senbe1s (1058)
who has won all five Avon tourna­citizen last year, served out the first 
Mike Beaty (288-9636) v. ChriS Hatfield (1171) ments she has entered this year, has set, then broke her opponent in the Gary Purk (1056) v. Matt Brach (1069) third and fifth games, closing out the George Lachance (8175) v. Mark Storen 11724) 
not lost since the final ofthe Toyota match by holding serve in the sixth
Championships in December. Turnbull also had an easy first­and eighth games. round match, downing KathyJordan 

Jordan held serve to begin her Adama Dlvlalon w L T GF GA Pta.
match. After that, Turnbull
6-1,6-3 in 79 minutes. x-Montreal 43 14 17 339 205 103 In other matches, Sylvia Hanika of dominated play. She captured the Boston 40 24 10 291 255 90 Buffalo 36 23 15 277 240 87
next eight games, lost her serve in
West Germany whipped Mirna Quebec 31 28 16 331 323 78 Jausovec ofYugoslavia, 6-4, 6-1, and Hartford 21 36
the third game of the second set, 17 248 314 59 then broke back in the sixth before 
Petrick Division

Anne Smith upset Barbara Potter 6­
x-N.Y. Islanders 50 15 9 359 229 109
serving out for the match.

4, 7-6. N.Y. Rangers 37 24 13 292 280 87 Turnbull's victory avenged her Philadelphia 36 29 9 302 294 81
Navratilova will meet Turnbull 
Pittsburgh 28 36 11 283 318 67
loss toJordan in last Sunday's final of
today and Hanika will play Smith in Washington 23 40 11 293 316 57 the winner's bracket, while Bunge 
the Avon stop in Boston. Smy1ha Dvlslon w L T
Jordan, a native ofKing of Prussia, GF GA Ptafaces Jordan and Jausovec opposes 
x:Edmonton 44 17 14 389 281 102 Potter. Calgary 27 31 17 311 323 71
Pa, fought off six match points in the Today's winners advance directly eighth game ofthe second set before Vancouver 26 33 16 261 276 68 
Los Angeles 23 36 15 291 332 61into Saturday's semi-finals. Players Turnbull held serve to close out the Colorado 17 47 11 224 331 45 match. Norris Division
with 2-1 records after tomorrow's 
Minnesota 33 21 20 318 265 86
The tournament ends the 
spots. women's indoor circuit The winner Chicago 28 36 11 314 341 67 St. LOUIS 29 39 7 291 330 65 
play will fill the other two semifinal Winnipeg 31 29 13 303 307 77 
"I could have played better, but I collects $100,000, with $52,000 to 
Toronto 20 39 16 285 354 56 really wasn't tested," Navratilova the runner-up. Detroit 18 45 12 254 336 46 
The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­
day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However, classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid, 
either in person or through the mail. 





l Classifieds 
FURNISHED 4 BEDROOM HOUSE, 925 . "Beaux Arts goes to the Louvre" Saturday ATIENTION PE WOMEN!!! Vote for the 
N. FRANCIS. CLOSE TO ND. 27 .featuring the Tarantulas! Don't team that combines experience wrth en­
\ LOST/FOUND \. TICKETS 

AVAILABLE FOR SEPT. CALL AFTER 6: know what the Louvre is all about? Find thusiasm!!! Vote CAROL CAMP ­
I.___No_T_IC~Es__.l 

L..-.______J_ 232-0535 out in the Architecture Library -books on PRESIDENT Need extra tickets for graduation. Call itareont RALONDA MASON-VP 
4 Bdrm N Shore $270 mo total. Call Patty Marl<at3008. on FRIDAY, MARCH 26!!1! ANITARAMKER: REWARD: LOST GOLD NECKLA.CE 3193228735 Call refunded The Beaux Arts Ball (for those of you un­THE WOMAN WITH THE HEAVENLY WITH CROSS AT CAMPUS VIEW need 6 tix tor graduation ceremony bert familiar with the affair) is the semesterly To all you BSB fllna: Mackin High Ia VOICE POOL SENTIMENTAL VALUE. Please DEAR SECOND FLOOR REGINA. 1484 costume ball put on by the students of the going to win. Odda: 99 to 1 SUNDAY, MARCH 28, AT 3 P.M. call 283-6954 MANY THANKS TO WHOEVER THE Architecture department openad to the MOREAU HALL'S LITTLE THEATRE, HELL SENT ALL THOSE LOVELY PER­DESPERTELY NEED 6 TICKETS FOR entire campus of Notre Dame. If you en-OPENING DAY! OPENING DAY! RED SAINT MARY'S LOST: GOLD CELTIC (IRISH) CROSS SONALS TO GET OUR ATIENTION: THE 11182 GRADUATION CEREMONY joy .crazy costumes, demented dan-SOX-WMe Sox BASEBALL! The BOS­AT SMC. PINM call x4602 (SMC). Ufe SEND MONEY! WE ARE LOOKING -PLEASE CALL JOHN AT 76115 cmg and general kookiness make an TON CLUB will take you to the game, hu not been the ume without ll FORWARD TO EXPERIENCING THE appearance at the longest running party TUESDAY, APRIL 6th. Sign up for TYPING SERVICE. 684-4125 Reward. WHOLE FLOOR WHEN/IF WE JAM AT tradition. See an ark1e 1n its natural ~IMITED SEATING this MONDAY, March SMC. habrtat. The theme for this semester is 29th, 7:00 pm, t st floor Lafor1une. Come JAMES P. KEYES -GREAT FINGER W'--fOund my Celtic Cro.. at "Beaux Arts goes to the Louvre" , so watch the BOSOX in their only ap­
I PERSONALS I
ACTION JIMMY -BUT WHY DO YOU SMC and called me -pleaM call comeasanytblngfrom a mNSeum (even If pearance before summer. Cost is being CALL IT A DOUBLENECK? CON­again. The cro..has great Mnllmental Its In the Cblcago Art lnstltuU! or the negotiated, probably $12-$15.1ncludes GRATSI WE LOVE YOU! (SOON WE 
value for me. EIIMn x4602. R-ard. DearC1ndy, Toledo Tuxedol!xblbltlon). TblsSatur­beer,tix, bus. PROMISE!!) (FROM SECOND FLOOR How are you? I am fine. Nice rapping 
iUiy. 
FARLEY, FOURTH FLOOR LYONS. Lost one pair of orange Lange ski boots at WANTED with you yesterday afternoon. You're a Dear LUCY: I LOVE YOU! VICTOR FIRST AND FOURTH FLOOR REGINA Notre Dame circle on March 12 in the af­good buddy. Later on Deadline for Fall Semester Program in AND ALL OF PW.II) ternoon. If found please contact Phil at j MexiCO at the UNIVERSIDAD Yugoslavs know where it's at . 
3779. Thanks. . IBEROAMERICANA-Fri., Mar. 26. See ATIENTION SMC STUDENTS!! Applica­TYPING 28 years as a secretary -excel­
Marc1a LeMay, Center for Experiential Denise Spr1ng for PYOC LOST: A Brown and Beige Jacket with Laarning,1110Mem. Lib., 239-5319.
tions are now available at the LeMans lent typist, retired. $1.00/page call Phyllis ANITA!ll Student Acliv~ies Othce for Student Black and Whrte stripes the 259-2501. COME AND HEAR A GIRL NAMED CARROTHEAD
across Government CommiSSIOners. Pick one chest.Lost at the ACC on the Tuesday AN IT A RAMKER !want you. You are such an AIRHEAD !!! up, fill it ou1 and return rt by Friday, March before break. It was removed frQm the MY GIRLFRIEND needs a ride to NO this SUNDAY, MARCH 28, IN SAINT 4A men's restroom across from the hockey why thank you kind lady ... p.s. Comedy IS not pretty. 
26th. Any questions?? Call. Murph weekend from U of I (Champaign). II you MARY'S UTILE THEATRE, MOREAU 
know driving please call Mike at 4540. 
x4863, Elaine x51 04 or Beth x4448. rink between 12:20 and 1 :20p.m.j'lease someone up, HALL 

return because it was specially repacked March for Archbishop Romero You've never seen an ugly man until Summer Jobs National Park Co's. 21 With a material that was not allergic to me Thursday March 25 you've seen MARK ULLIMANI!! Parks, 5000 Openings. Complete in­but may be allergic to others. REWARD. LYONS HALL FOODSALES OFFERS Meet at Sacred Heart Church at4:30 formation $5.00. Park Report. Mission Call TOM at1465. Can you fix electric typewrrters? II so, call THE BEST IN FRESH, THICK CRUST To all Sou1h Side (and otherwise) 
Min. Co., 651 2nd Ave. W.N., Kalispell, 284-5127. ~ DEUVERED ANYWHERE ON Chicagoans-This is the season we've MT.59901. Now that the snow is gone, hopefully SOUTH QUAD FOR THE NOMINAL JOIN AM-64 EVERY NIGHT THIS WEEK been wart1ng for! Maggl8! Get psyched for someone will find my 60LD CHAIN. If CAMP COUNSELORS/PROGRAM CHARGE OF 25 CENTS, SUNDAY FOR FREE ALBUM GIVE-A-WAYS a WINNING CHICAGO CUBS TEAM! Get Htlve you •-become q..aay at the you do please call Marl< at3895. Reward. DIRECTORS wanted for private MIChigan THROUGH THURSDAY NIGHTS FROM FOLLOWING THE ALBUM HOUR AT a clue, go to the opener . boys/girls summer camps: SWimming, 11:00 P.M. STAY TUNED TO NOTRE
afgtrt of aqulrrel pk:tur11a? Do you want Thanx! .. 9:30 TO 11 AND ORDER YOURS. to make IT10IIey and be publlllhed? Do ALSO: EVERY WEDNESDAY NIGHT IS 

canoeing, sailing, skiing, sports, riflery, DAME'S BEST ROCK -WSND, AM-ATOMIC SKEET RULES I archery, tennis, golf, crafts, camping, 64111
you like to work with fun people? Do LOST: A RED PULL-OVER WHILE JOG­GUEST CELEBRITY NIGHT WITH you have a 35mm cemer11 and can you GING AROUND ST. JOE'S LAKE THE gymnastics, calligraphy, dramatics, WELL· KNOWN CAMPUs-FIGURES ROCK FIGHT! on WSND-FM 88.9 New 
work In a black and white darkroom? MORNING OF MARCH 23. IT WAS cheerteading, guitar. Laurence Seeger, WORKING THE COUNTER I II you found my brand new grey slacks, Wave vs. Classic Rock. Fri. nile at mid­· Then YOU ahould apply to be an OB­
HUNG ON A TREE BRANCH. PLEASE 1765 Maple, Northfield, IL 60093. Send PLEASE call 8332. night. Call-in to cast your vote SERVER PHOTOGRAPHER! Good CALL ROfll AT 6261 (200 GRACE). details. ABIOGENESIS DANCE COLLECTIVE dartcroom akllla a mu.t; )oumellllll ex­THANK-YOU. presents: 
what ifthey fit well ... RIDERS NEEDED THIS WEEKEND ,.._ helpful but not ,_....-y. AN INFORMAL STUDIO CONCERT 
PLEASE HELP MEl I need a ride to FOR MILWAUKEE/MAROUETIE Bring a -ume-fngexperience and If you found my brand new grey slacks, MIAMI OF OHIO or CINCINATI area this Thursday, March 25 7:30p.m. R AREA CALL MAGGIE AT 277-5988 quellflcetiOna along with -PLEASE call 8332. Friday. Jenny 284-4507 Holy Cross Hall (NO) Free Admissions Thanks for making my ,;.ishes come true! Nmplea of your work to the Ob.arver 
!love you! DEAR SECOND FLOOR REGINA, ofllce on the third floor of La Fortune LOST: One BUFFALO head nickel. If c MANY THANKS TO WHOEVER by March 31. found, please return to Washington Hall, PITTSBURGH CLUB EASTER BUS -WROTE ALL THOSE LOVELY NOTICES Friday or Saturday mght. Sign-ups THIS SUNDAY, MARCH 28 TO WAITING FOR NOW WE AP­
FOR SALE AT 8:00 P.M. In Lafortune Little that's sweet ... PRECIATE THE THOUGHT, BUT IF Theater. SPECIAL HOUDAY YOU REALLY WANT OUR ATIENTION, The N.D.-SMC theater presents Mamet's 
"AMERICAN BUFFALO" ·­FARESIIIII $38.00 ROUND TRIP and M & M man in O'Shag Tuesday. Just SEND MONEY. WE ARE LOOKING

,.---FO_R_R-EN_T____/ $26.00 ONE WAY. Bus leaves NO Thurs.. FORWARD TO EXPERIENCING THE
wanted to say THANK YOU!! USED & OUT-PRINT BOOKS bought, April 8 at 4:00 pm from the CCE. Bus WHOLE FLOOR WHEN/IF WE JAM AT "The brilliant-sometimes funny, mostly 
bru1al play by America's most promising 

young playwright. .. sold, searched. ERASMUS BOOKS. returns on Mon., Apn112 at1 :00 pm from ITS COMING!! The BIG "0' ! Ale you SMC YOU'RE OBVIOUSLY A VERY 
Tues-Sunday, 12-6.1027E. Wayne(One the Greyhound Term1na1 1n Downtown ready Edd1e, Raoul, Doug, Chns, Joan, et TASTEFUL GROUP OF YOUNG block sou1h of Eddy-Jefferson Intersec­Pittsburgh. Payment must be made in
Antoyne Broyard, N.Y. Times all? THIS IS IT!!!! Break a leg! 0-LADIES -CONGRATULATIONS FOR Student hous•ng-clean. safe. $1 00/mo. 
tion.) FULL at s1gn-ups. No Refunds. Ques-· Sweetheart EARNING OUR HEARTFELT tions? -Call Brian Eichenlaub at t 581. 
291-1405. CURIOSITY. Also ELECTIONS A meeting will follow RMR LOVE AND KISSES, ETC Dates: March 26 and 27, 8 p.m. Washing­
ton Hall usEo !l66i< ·s-1-ioP HouRs wEo . 
sign-ups for those interested in runn1ng

Two furnished 5 bedroom houses near WAITING FOR NOW­
SAT. SUN. 9-7. CASPERSON 1303 TYPING SERVICE. 684-4125. BUCHANAN RD., NILES.

NO. Available next school year and sum­for next years officers. Regina Mane, you lusciOus little nurse. JAMESP., TIMMY, SCOTIO, ROBLL, mer. 234-2626. Are you preparad for my naughty little AND DEAR MONIQUE, MY FRIEND, THERE 
verse. Wart1ng, wa111ng, wart1ng, that's BILLYIIIIII
THANK YOU, ST. JUDE KMB YOU DESERVE THE BEST Jafra ISN'T ANYTHING I WOULDN'T SHARE

BE YOUR OWN BOSS Comfortable 5 what I'll do, To spend that certa1n April
Consuhant: Penny Penrod 291-8310 M-F WITH YOU: TIME, LAUGHTER, MONEY

bedroom, completely furnished house for weekend w1th you. 
-BUT YOU MUST UNDERSTAND, HE WANTED: 14 women and 8 men to par­

5 or 6. Close to campus. PH 288-3942. Lusc10us old Karen, 
1974 TRIUMPH TR6 YELLOW,BRN (JACQUES LE BRUN) IS MINE . So run down the Parkway, but don't say a Good luck at your new JOb at theINT,EXCELLANT COND. $3900 277­ticipate in a Psychology experiment on 

Large,one bedroom, remodeled, parking word, And fly to Chitown on that btg silver hotel ..I'm qu1te certam that you'll be a
5674 BTWN 5-7PM $185 $6 electric. NW, near bus and btrd. You know you excrte my manes pertect "entertruner!l!!" 
ND/SMC student: no • previous ex­stores. lifo lease. $150depos~. 289-1687 .. .An Tostal is coming soon . .. be in o·hormal, So come, come wrth me to the JPK 
memory. Qualifications: must be a 
perience in Psychology experiments. I BUY AND SELL YOUR BOOKS AT PAN­cartoons. Mail 7)name, 2)address, Sen10r Formal.

DORA'S. 937 SOUTH BEND AVENUE.
will pay $2.00 for le~ than 1 hr of your 3)pholo via FREE campus m/111 to:

3-4 bedroom home, furnished, 3 blocks ITS TOO BAD THAT PEORIA IS SUCH 
233-2342. Section sales this week only.
time. ij you are interested, please meet 

off campus. This summer and/or fall. StufiSimon A COLD AND UNAPPROACHABLE
Prof. Pryor in the lobby of Haggar Hall on Economics and Literature se:, off used c/o Jeb Cashin Jim· 
Graduate students preferred. Call Mr. PLACE. SOME OF US WOULD HAVE
Thurs. Mar 25, at 8 PM. trtles. We now carry THE MILITANT. 
BoxQ

Noe, 287-9636, days. UKEDTOSTAYTHEREOVERBR~
yea, t I wish that was mine ...
The Observer 

The Observer -Sports ,!hursday, March 25, 1982 -page 9 

Successful trip for lacrosse team 

By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish lacrosse team is back home practicing after finishing off a four-game road trip through the Baltimore-Washington area over spring break. 
The trip, which marked the begin­ning. of the second season of varsity lacrosse at Notre Dame. was deemed "successful" by Coach Rich O'Leary. The squad returned with an even 2-2 record, beating Georgetown and Ohio State, and losing to Mt. St. Mary's and Loyola ( Md. ). 
"Before the road trip, I had said 
that I wanted to ~.:o 2-2,"said 
O'Leary, "and we did it. I just wish 
we could have played better against 
Mt. St. Mary's." 
The team definitely had its ups and downs on the nine-day journey. After a sloppy scrimmage with the Alexandria Lacrosse Club, which was the first outdoor action of the year for the team, the squad beat Georgetown 17-H. Beatings at the hands of Mt. St. Mary's ( 14-4) and Loyola ( 27-10) followed the victory. 'lbe trip ended on an up note, however, as the team downed Ohio State 14-10. 
The Georgetown game was marked by sloppy play on the part of both teams. Even though George­town already had played several games, they appeared even more ragged than the Irish team which was playing its first game of the season. 
"It looked like both teams were 
playing their first games," remarked 
O'Leary. "There were a lot of 
mistakes, but we were able to 
capitalize while Georgetown 
couldn't." 
The game was relatively close for the first half, but the Irish blew out the Hoyas in the second half en route to a nine-point triumph. Senior attackman Steve Iinehan, sophomore attackman Steve Pear­sall, and senior midfieldcr Bill Bonde starred in the win. Linehan had five goals and three assists while Pearsall added three goals and five assists and Bonde had four goals and two assists. Mike Lynch, Kevin Smith, Dan Pace, and Kevin Rooney also added goals. 
Freshman goalie Rob Simpson had 
13 saves. 
The Mt. St. Mary's game was marred by poor play by the Irish and ankle-deep mud. The Mounties built up an 11-2 lead and the Irish could not get closer. Bonde led the team 
with two goals while Lynch and Pearsall adde(;( one apiece. 
The Irish moved on to Baltimore to play in the Loyola Invitational Tournament. The first-round op­ponent was the host team. Before the g.ame was four minutes old, the Greyhounds led, 5-0. The first quru;­ter ended with the Irish seven goalS down. For the next two quarters they matched Loyola goal for goal, but the over-manned Irish tired and were destroyed in the last quarter. 
"That last quarter isn't indicative of the ability of the team,"says 
O'Leary. "The guys gave up a few 
quick goals and seemed to lose 
heart." 
All was not bad, however, as Iinehan set a team record with six goals. Bonde, Pearsall, and Pace also added goals. Simpson was tough in the nets with 23 saves. 
Hoping to end the trip-successful­ly, the Irish met Ohio State in the tournament consolation game. Things started off badly as the Buckeyes jumped to a quick 3-0 lead, but the Irish scored eight un­answered goals and held on for the win. 
Bonde led the team with four goals and two assists. Pearsall con­tributed three goals and three as­sists, and Lynch added three goals. FreshmanJoe Hart, Smith, and fresh­man defenseman Justin Shay also added goals. Simpson had another good day with 14 saves. 
There were some outstanding in­dividual performances over the four games. Bonde, Linehan, and Pearsall had impressive statistics while fresh­man Shay did an excellent job on defense. Simpson strengthened his position as number-one goalkeeper with some good games. 
Sf ICK CHECK S -The team opens its 1982 home season this weekend with two exhibition games. On Saturday, the Michigan Lacrosse Club takes on the Irish. The Chicago Lacrosse Club visits on Sun­day. Both games will be played on Cartier Field at I :30 p.m. 

67-58 

Bradley beats Purdue for NIT crown 
NEW YORK (AP)-Juniors Bar­
ney Mines and Willie Scott scored 
I 7 points apiece to give Bradley the championship of the 45th annual National Invitation Tournament with a 67-58 victory over Purdue last night. 
The title was the fourth in the NIT for Bradley, tying the Braves with St. John's, N.Y., for the most champion­ships in the tournament's history. 
Bradley was regular season cham­pion of the Missouri Valley Conference, but had heen passed up for an at-large herth in the 48-team NCAA tournament after losing in the conference's postseason tourna­ment. 
Mines and Scott, who averaged less than eight points a game as a playmaker, led a balanced scoring at­ta<:k. Mitchell Anderson, the third leading scorer in MVC history be­hind Oscar Robertson and Larry Bird, scored 16 and David Thirdkill hit for 15 for the Braves, who finished with a 26-10 record. 
Russell Cross, the 6-10 sopho­more center for Purdue, IH-14, led the Boilermakers with 16. His opposing centers, Donald Reese and Kerry Cook, fouled out of the game. 
Anderson, who scored 25 points in Bradley's semifinal victory over Oklahoma, was named the NITs most valuable player. 
Purdue never led after having an 8-6 edge In the first half. Twice, however, they had an opportunity to take the lead in the sec t ond halfwith Bradley ahead 43-42. But the Boiler­makers missed both oftheir shots. 
lben, Thirdkill hit a three-point play with 9:39 left to start an 11-2 run by the Braves that gave them a 54-44 edge with 6:31 on the clock. The closest Purdue got after that was four points, at 57-53 and 62-58. 
Mike Scearce, who joined Cross with 16 points for Purdue, had 10 in the first half although he missed the last six minutes ofthe halfwith three fouls. 
Anderson scored all nine of his first half points in a 3:41 span as Bradley extended its margin to 27­
19 at the 6:14 mark. But Purdue out­
scored the Braves 12-4 for the rest of 
the period, tying the game 31-31 at 
intermission on Jim Bullock's dunk 
with two seconds left. 
Keith Edmonson had 1 1 points for 
Purdue, just three in the first half, af­
ter being the Big Ten's leading 
scorer this year with a 21.5 average. 
Bradley won its fourth title in irs 
14th NIT appearance since 19 38. 
The Braves' other title years were 
,................................~ 
1957, 1960and 1964. 
Purdue was making its fifth ap­
pearance, with a title in 1974. 
Scott, Cross and Edmonson were joined by Chuck Barnett of Ok­lahoma and Eric Marbury of Georgia on the all-tournament team. 
The NIT, college basketball's old­est postseason tournament, had a 32-team field at the start, and the first three rounds were played on campus sites around the country. 
"""
................................................................................ 

I ~ORS I 
~ ~
I Senior Trip sign -up and collections I ~ WEDNESDAYand THURSDAY ~ I ~ 
~ $50 NON-REFUNDABLEdeposit I ~ saves you a place ! i 
I I
LaFortune ~ LeMans lobby 11-1 pm ; 8-9pm ~ 
I I
iL.....................................................................................................................I 


obiQ)enesis -"J 
+ -d--.dOir"lc.tZ. colle : 
~ Abiogenesis Dance.Collective i 
+ AN INFORmAL STUDIO DANCE CONCERT 
i 
: -Thutaday, march 25,1982 .:
. 
-
: Pool room of Holy Cross Hall (ND) : 
•iSeating begins at 7:15 Free Admission •: 1........!:~:~:::!:~~!:!:!~1 

Fight promoter Don King, center, tries to separate bearryweight boxing champ Larry Holmes, right, amd challenger Gerry Cooney while they ham it up at a news conference in New York Tuesday. It was announced that the two boxers will fight for the title in Las Vegasonjune 11. (APPhoto) 
manOatORV
~I antostallnn€RtUB€ Wat€R polo .6'flllf"' captains ffi€€tJnq 7pm tomqht 1J'P f-aRLey Bas€m€nty Bas€m€nt 
~source 
Notre Dame 
239-7080 

..:Travel 
P.O. Box 1602St. Mary's South Bend, IN 46634 284-5606 236-2656 
Come join one of our Escorted Tours. 
D May 14-16-Brown County -Rolling green hills overnight at Carrousel's Brown County Inn. ' Activities for all ages! $225 
D May 20-23-Las Vegas -Glittering! Ever Exciting! $429 
D July 9-11 -Greenfield Village and Windsor! Step Into history! $190 
D July 16 or August 24-Four Days -Knoxville and the World's Fair. Educational and Fun! $295 
D July 26-August 15-China '82-Our third tour directed by Geraldine Hatt. See ancient China and the new emerging China! $3,450 
D August 8-18-Going Up To Jerusalem -Our Eighteenth Pilgrimage! Spiritual Leader, Father Edward O'Connor Notre Dame. Directed by George Ambler. $1,775 ' 
D August 15-22-Alaska '82-Cruise the Inside Passage on Costa's Spectacular MTS Daphne! From $998 
D August 28-Sept. 2 -Historic Mackinac Island -Soo Locks-Ride on the Algoma Railroad in Canada's wilds. Directed by George Ambler, $385 
D September 16-19-Nashville and the Grand Ole Opry! For ail you Country-Western fans! $292 
D October 2-24-Down Under '82-Visiting New Zealand, Australia, and FIJI! Directed by Geraldine Hatt. 
D November 6-13-Celebrate The Caribbean-A cruise aboard the Costa Lines World Reniassancel Great Fun! From $935 
To receive more Information, check those tours of interest, clip this ad and mall to 1st Source Travel or call one of our convenient offices. 
\ 
I 
r 
Name ----------------------------------------­
\ 
Phone: Home Business 
Address 

City State Zip 
·rhe Observer-Sports Tlrursday,_March 25, 1982-page 10 
Applications for ASSISTANT TREASURER STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
available in Treasurer's Office 2nd floor LaFortune 
Must presently be a Sophomore Accounting major 
Applications Due Friday, Apri12 4:00PM 
) . 
t ................................................................................................,,,~ 


I Applicationsforthe 1982-83 ! I ~ 


~ Student Government I! Cabinet Poisitions ! 
I ~ 
! will be made available starting_ I 
i ~ 
~ March 23 I
I ~ 
-~ atthe ~ 
~ ! 
~ . ~ 



IStudent Government OfficesI 
~ ~ 
~ on the second floor ofLaFortlUle. II ~ 
~ I
I ~
Mustbe returned by March 31... 
l ~ .........................................................." ..............................................J ~ 
SACK BA!S -A!!ER!IORI! 
****************
* Sa,. 11:80·1:80 · * # NEWHOURS ~ 
**************** 
UNITED BEVERAGECO. (Next to police station on Sample) 
Check Our Prices 






Rugby, softball-new beginnings 
. Beginning anew and a new beginning are the themes 
for this Saturday's club action to be held at home. Al­
though the themes sound the same, there is a variance 
in their meanings. 

For the always popular Rugby Club, it is a beginning anew from last year's suspension (and almost total demise) which by now needs no introduction. Of the 17 returnee's that were suspended from last year, only five were granted reinstatement to play for the club. "The twelve people who were not reinstated have taken it well for the most part," says the secratary ofthe club, Brian Tucker. "I ought to know since I am one of the twelve. There is nothing for us really left to do. As far as we are concerned we just have to put the lid on the whole thing and let it die as it is." 
The softball club, meanwhile, has a new beginning 
this Saturday at Saint Mary's field by beginning its first 
season as a financially-supported club of the Non­
Varsity Athletic program. "Fast-pitch softball has always 
been most popular along with basketball for girls in the 
Midwest," says club president Karen Alig. "This year 
especially we have had a lot of dedication from all our 
people in order to enhance our status. In our practices 
earlier in the year, the ACC was available to us only from 
10 p.m. to midnight. AU the lights were turned off ex­
cept the ones over the hockey rink for the people 
skating -and we still managed to get in solid practices. 
Now that's dedication," she laughs. 

RUGBY-Ifyou think that fast-paced, free-wheeling 
and sometimes downright fierce action at Notre Dame concluded with the Bengal Bouts two weeks ago, think again. The club will open its season this Saturday at 1 p.m. at the intramural fields on the south side of the ACC against a city tean1 from Chicago called the South­Side Irish. The "A" team will begin the meet followed by the "B" team and the "C" 'team. "Everybody's been geting really pumped up. We have had a lot offresh new talent coming out for us who are really excited at the prospects ofplaying," says Tucker. Currently, there are 65 members on the. club with 40 of them being split evenly between the sophomore and freshmen class. The top talent for now, however, belongs to the up­perclassmen. Among the very talented that return are senior club-president Nick Colarelli, and juniors Mike 
...Conclusion 
continuedfrom page 12 
ofthe club sport program, the mem­bers have a responsibility to show that. I guess we have to push that reminder a little harder." 
"I've learned that this group of rugby players is a fine group of people," says Roemer. "I didn't real­ly know them before all of this. I'd always heard things like they were a macho group; a boisterous, alcohol­party type crowd. But ther's a better side to these guys. I think they know that when you get out of yourself; and do something good for someone else, the rewards come back a hundred fold." 
Surely, the twelve who wiU indeed never play rugby at Notre 


Butler and Sean Sullivan. Aii a<lamon un-tniS year's club 
is graduate student Brian McLaughlin, who achieved 
"AU New-England" status while playing for Brown Uni­
versity last year. 
"We did lose a lot of good people to graduation and 
suspension," says Tucker, "but we are going to have 
good teams this year anyway. The practices have been 
great, and the attitude has been one of super en­
thusiasm." Other home meets this year include Purdue 
on April 3, and Michigan State on May 1. 
WOMEN'S SOFTBALL-The softball club will open 
the season with a doubleheader against Saint Mary's at 1 
p.m. this Saturday. Both teams are members ofthe Divi­sion Ill Associaton of Inter-Collegiate Athletics for Women (AlA W ). An excellent blend ofexperience and young talent is present on the Notre Dame team this year. Thus, there is great optimism by team members for an improvement on last year's 5-7 mark. "Our goals this year are a winning record during the regular season, and then hopefully winning the st;lte tourna­ment at the end of the year," says a confident Alig. "We are going to be quite competitive this year, so I think we have a very good chance ofreaching those goals." 
Ten returning members from last year's team will highlight the 19-member squad. Yet, the youth move­ment is the dominant feature as there are seven mem­bers each from the sophomore and freshmen classes. Two of the sophomores, Molly Ryan and JiU Strenzel, are regarded as the best athletes on the team, while freshman Katie Donohoe may be the top pitcher on the squad. Upperclassmen help will be greatly present, though, from team captain Alig, seniors Cyndi Crinnell and Jane Cugini, junior co-captain Laurie Barry, and power-hitting junior Nancy Jackson. 
Brant Hackmann is the head coach for the team. Stu­dent assistance is provided by Bob and Kevin Spahn. 
Dame again consider that to be more 
like 50-fold. 
The players have come in contact with many underprivileged people, a tremendous learning experience_ for anyone. They in tu-m have treated the ruggers with apprecia­tion and respect, something which has taught them a lot about the local residents. The "walkers" also have learned a thing or two about what Notre Dame expects of its "representatives," and even more about diplomatic behavior and the 
University's bureaucracy. Notre 
Dame is proud of Notre Dame, and 
frowns on anything or anyone that 
could do anything to tarnish her 
image. And when a punishment is 
given, it is incredibly difficult to 

overcome its ramifications. 
Northeast neighborhood resi­dents have learned that not all Notre Dame students bum rubber on Notre Dame Avenue, leave beer cans on front lawns and sing loudly in the wee hours of the weekeiid. 
Roemer asserts that the women of Notre Dame have a reason to be thankful. When the rugby players bailed out the escort service by offering their time, the ladies on campus learned that the rugby stereotype of a drunken, rowdie bruiser lacking respect for women, couldn't be further from the truth. 
The 1982 season begins Saturday when the Notre Dame Rugby Club plays host to Chicago's South-Side Irish Rugby Club. A full slate of games ('A,' 'B' and 'C') is scheduled for the intramural fields 

THE GAME OF TM 
GALACHESS 
A BAITLEFIELD IN SPACE 
Galachess is an exciting game of 21st century chess. Two players, with eighteen Galamen each, wage war within a field of hexagons. Two queens protect the king while the powerful knights orbit the entire board. All the Galamen work together in an attempt to capture the oppo­nents king. This new game, complete with easy to foUow illustrated instruc­tions, is available by mail-order only. Order yours today at our low intro­ductory price of $9.95 (including postage and handling). Send check or money order to: Mathew B. Harrer, P.O. Box 1081, Northbrook, IL 60602. 
The knight moves In the most unusual manner ol all IM p1ec... 


Ihe~crer======================================= 

~~4(Jl~~~=============================T=h=u=rs=d=ay='=M=~==ch==2=5=,1=9=8=2===p=a=g=e==ll 
Molarity 

The Daily Crossword 
Michael Molinelli 

Garry Trudeau 

Jeb Cashin 



62 Mental 30 Conceited faculties 31 Sicilian 
64 Starlike volcano 
66 Mont Carvin 32 Chanted 
69 Deep 33 Cleopatra's affection handmaid 70 Thespian 34 Rlverof 71 Desertlike Egypt 72 Level 35 Nautical 73 Depressed mile 74 East Indian 37 Estuary: Sp. 
palm 38 Certain 75 Ponselle or poet Bonheur 41 Decimal points 
DOWN 45 Flamboyant 1 Lady chaser 47 Piazza 2 Separated 48 Son of 3 Apia's Aphrodite 
milieu 51 Arabian 4 Full prince assembly 53 Chief 5 Take for household granted servant 6 Smoked 55 Wharton salmon character 7 European 57 Utah city 
range 58 Projecting 8 Molars roof edges 9 Movie horse 59 Moslem 
10 Color priest 
11 Pedestaled 60 Mexican 
vases sandwich 12 Spice 61 Bismarck 13 Entreaty 63 Fern spores 19 Wading bird 65 Riverin 21 Dull person Siberia 25 Auto type 67 Bushy clump 27 Greeting 68 Tear apart 

Campus . 
•9 
am. -4 p.m. -Book Sale, Memorial Ubrary Concourse, .50 Hardbacks, .25 Paperbacks 

•3:30 
-5 p.m. -Lecture, "The Human Side of Management", William Hewlett, Hewlett-Packard Company, Center for Continuing Education, Sponsored by E.B. Clark Distinguished Executive Series 

•7 
p.m. -Presentation, "Juniors -What will you do after graduation?", Paul Reynolds, Place­ment Bureau, 118 Nieuwland Science Hall 

•7 
p.m. -Class, Computer Consciousness, M-115 Computer Center/Math Building 

•7:30 
p.m. -Debate, "Capitalism versus Socialism: Freedom and the Well Being ofSociety", Professor Robert Borgasser, Professor William Houck, Carroll Hall 

•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Darwin, Man and Reduc­tionism", Dr. Phillip Sloan, Memorial Library Lounge, Sponsored by Program of Liberal Studies 

•7:30 
p.m. -Film, "The Other Way", "A Thousand Suns", 351 Madeleva Hall, Sponsored by Social Ecology Film Series 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Uturgy of Mark", Profes­sor Geoffrey Cuming, Ripon College, Oxford, Gal­vin Ufe Science Auditorium, Sponsored by Theology Department 

•8 
p.m. -Concert, Brady/Stalker String Duo, O'Laughlin Auditorium, Sponsored by SMC Performing Arts Series, Tickets S4 adults, $2 stu­dents, SMC students free 

•8: 
15 p.m. -Concert, Meir Rimon, Horn recital, Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art, Sponsored by Music Department 

•11 
p.m. -WSND-AM Radio, Album Hour, "Swing to the Right", Utopia__ 


T.V. Tonight 
7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. !O:OOp.m. 
!0:30p.m. ll:OOp.m. 
11:30p.m. 
12:00a.m. 12:30a.m. 
1:40a.m. 
16 MASH 
22 CBS News 
28 Joker's Wild 
34 The MacNeiVLc:hrer Report 
46  Rev. David Paul  
16  The Muppet Show  
22  College  Basket ball:  Michigan  at  
Purdue  
28  Tic Tac Dough  
34  Straight Talk  
46  W. V. Grant  
16  Fame  
28  Police Squad  
34  Sneak Previews  

46 Lester Sumrall Teaching 28 Bosom Buddies 34 This Old House 46 Panern For Living 16 Di.tfrent Strokes 28 Barney MIUer 34 Austin City Limits 46 Today with Lester Sumrall 16 Gimme A Break 22 Family Feud 28 Taxi 16 HIU Street Blues 22 Nurse 28 20/20 34 Michigan Outdoors 46 Jack Van lmpe 34 Training Dogs The Woodhouse Way 46 Faith For Today 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 The Dick Caven Show 46 Praise The Lord 16 Tonight Show 22 Quincy/McMillan and Wife 28 ABC News Nightline 34 Captioned ABC News 28 Vegas 46 Lester Sumrall Teaching 16 Late Night With David Lc:nerman 28 Vegas 46 Sharing 28 Late Night Newsbrief 
.. 
.. 
.. 

r·-----------------------------------------------·1 
~~~~:a a~~:a _,U'WWll:tl'Jr \lJ~IIf.Sif lFWJaDl&Dra'.,I 
I 
4c:qmp~iJS! F&&Gllii 
lLli~U'WWll w~ 

.ilm::C~i'l~elW®W \8~lle!J~ ~.up43lL :J~t,£J:Iii&lWli u~~aau QWJD4il-.e~o~ u-o ~:Iill~2' W:Ell1ir.il:m' ~w~~~~w~~Wti~w ~~ ~WQ:Ii~ ~WW:l~(t/WI!WW 
I 

~-------------------------------------------------~ 
.:. 

SPRING: thetimeoftheyearthatayoungman's thoughts tum to love and ~rm~CIDrn rn~ 
Tonight we present our springtime frolic! 
Wear spring attire as we present blue Hawaiis, Gin & tonics, and Strawberry daquiry drink specials ALSO : Senior Formal raffle tonight! 
open 10:00-2:00 

ACROSS 1 Winged insect 5 Map for a site 
9 Dull sound 14 Glrasol 15 Function 16 Rustic 17 Cloth of 
gold 18 Practical 
knowledge 20 Palm leaves 22 Male deer 23 Large body 
of water 24 Zodiac sign 26 Lofty 28 Clown 29 Foliage 


3/25/82 
33 Sign 36 Variety of seven-up 39 Vaquero's 
rope 40 Fruit skin 42 Assist 43 Waterfall 44 Reserved 
and cool 46 Ingenuous 49 Find fault 
constantly 50 Take up 
residence 52 European 54 A few 56 Members of 
a road show 59 Japanese name 
Wednesday's Solution 

·-~--~--~------~­
r 
.. 
.. 

By ED KONRADY 
Sports Writer 
Be it ever so humble, there's no 
place like home. Especially when you win. The Notre Dame baseball team 
took advantage ofthe warm weather and plush landscape of Jake Kline Field to throw a coming home party at the expense of a outclassed Hun­tington team as the Irish swept a doubleheader, 2-0 and 11-1. 
The Irish, coming off a 2-6 spring

• 
trip, were led in the opener by soph­omore pitcher Tom Conlin and co­captain Chuck Tasch. 
Conlin turned in a sparkling performance, giving up only two hits, while chalking up seven strikeouts and allowing no walks. Notre Dame struck for only six hits offBearcat pitcher Greg Mohler. 
Tasch led the Irish attack against Mohler, going two-for-two and driving in both Notre Dame runs. 
In the nightcap, a seven-run first inning broke the game open. Co­captain Henry Valenzuela was three­for-five with four runs batted in, and junior Rick Chryst added four RBI's as the Irish turned it into a rout. 
Senior T.). Prister and freshman Jack Moran went two-for-three, and contributed on defense with their steady play. "Our fielding was a little shaky over break, but today we got some good fielding from our seniors," said Head Coach Larry Gal­lo. "Jack Moran, who's only a fresh­man, also has been doing agreat job. 
"We didn't play as 'well as we're capable ofplaying. Our hitting selec­tion on 2-0 and 2-1 counts is poor, but we are making good contact with the ball. 
"Our pitching, which worried me during the pre-season, has been ex­cellent. Bryan Smith, Bill Stonikas, Steve Whitmyer, Bill Matre and Con­

\ lin are all doing great. Ifour pitching and defense continues to progress, we will be a very good baseball team." 
Gallo played 16 men in the nightcap, and seemed pleased with the team's development. 
"We had a tough spring trip," said Gallo. "We lost three one-run games against excellent competition. We always play tough at home, but now we're on the road until April 10. If we can play some good ball and stay at about.500, we'll be in good shape. 
The Irish record stands at 4-6, and the team will travel to Cincinnati to play a doubleheader against the Uni­versity of Cincinnati Saturday, with another doubleheader against Xavier Sunday. Smith and Whitmyer are scheduled to pitch against Cin­ncinati with Matre and Stonikas to go against Xavier. 

Thursday, March 25, 1982-page 12 
Rugby saga 

Conclusion of a lon_g stor_y 
The final chapter ofNotre Dame's epic, The Elephant Walk, finally has been written, and all systems are go (for all but 12 players) for Notre Dame Rugby, 1982. 
Just before we slipped away for the fun and/or sun of spring break, Dean of Student James Roemer and Ath­letic Director Gene Corrigan passed down their verdict on the appeals for reinstatement made by 1 7 rugby players once barred from playing Notre Dame rugby ever again. 
It's been over a year since 26-or-so nude Domers bent over, held hands and marched around Griffi;, a public bar in Houston. As expected, a report from a "friend of Notre Dame" to the University about the group's spring break antics met with disfavor. The story quickly reached the AP wire and gained national atten­tion. Embarrassment abounded. 
During the past year, the ruggers have been model citizens in their efforts to work their vyay into the good graces of the powers that be. After a year ofdiplomatic appeal, negotiation and hard work in the community, five previously downtrodden players have been given new life, 12 have not, and countless others have learned and benefitted. 
To get everyone up to date, here's a briefrundown of the last 51 weeks: 
March 27, 1981 -Roemer met with the walkers, a group he figured to be about four or five people. When 30 showed up, the surprised Dean moved the meeting from his office to a classroom. The group explained that this was an age-old custom and an expression of team unity. They swore that the walk often was done stone cold sober. 
March 31 -In a letter sent to the involved players, Roemer said, "In my opinion, it (the walk) is an ex­ample of gross alcohol abuse which somehow has grown up with this particular sport." He ordered them "never to play rugby as a member of a 'Notre Dame' group again as long as you are still a student at this Uni­ersity. You also are never to take your clothes off in a public or semi-public occasion." He also made a recomendation to the University "to review the Rugby program to make a determination whether this sport should be continued as a club sport at Notre Dame." 
With the review underway and the nucleus of the club and the bulk ofits leadership barred from playing, the 1981 spring season was canceled by the athletic department, and the club was put on a two-year proba­tion. 
September 22, 1981 -In response to Club Presi­dent Nick Colarelli's request that rugby be reinstated after the midsemester spring vacation, Roemer and Cor­rigan laid out a plan for the club's rehabilitation. "If a minimum of 15 players work at least 4 hours per week in the Northeast Neighborhood for 20 weeks," they said in a two-page letter, "we will reconsider your request. (This represents a total of 1200 hours!) If your image has undergone considerable improvement, and if the 80 hours ofwork is done, we will consider the quality of the effort provided and a judgement decision... will be 
rendered." 

Over the ensuing four-and-a-half months, rugby players who had been in Houston and many who had not (mostly freshmen) completed or contracted over 1200 hours ofservice work. They raked leaves, cleaned parking lots, worked at Logan Center, coached basket­ball at St. Patrick's, hung storm windows for senior citizens, saved the dying student escort service on campus, participated in the federal government's cheese distribution program, painted a church, and more. 
February 1, 1982 -The players prepared a seven-

page constitution which outlined the club philosophy, organization and disciplinary proceedures, certainly a· sign that the club had undergone achange for the better in philosophy and attitude. 
February 20, -The club submitted a four-page petition to Roemer reporting its accomplishments, but admitted that not each individual had met the 80-hour requirement (in fact, only one had). The reasons cited for the defficiency were 1 ) a limited number of jobs (they completed every job offered by the Northeast Neighborhood Council), and 2) time limitations on each individual because of school work, etc. The peti­tion also included a diplomatic plug for the improved relations with students and local residents. 
The petition's strongest statement read as follows: "Without a doubt, sir, we have learned our lesson. Indeed, we promise you that there will never again be an elephant walk conducted by Notre Dame rugby players. We will find other ways to express team unity. Regarding alcohol abuse, drinking is emphasized far less since our Houston trip. Our main goal today is to be a winning team for Notre Dame." 
February 23 -Roemer had one more request before responding to the petition. He made a request for separate letters from each of the 26 who had received letters in March. "These players will not be reinstated unless they have substantially complied with the (80 hour) requirements..." He commended the group as a whole, saying, "We agree with your petition that the Rugby Team has made a fine contribution to town relations. We congratulate all of you who are responsible for this effort." 
March 10 -With the letters of 17 petitioners in 
hand, Roemer and Corrigan closed the case, reinstating 
only those individuals who had made "significant 
progress" toward the 80-hour requirement. Drawing 
the line at 55 hours, they allowed five players back on 
the team and asserted, "... we do not intend to review 
this matter again." Roemer and Corrigan gave the team 
the responsibility of monitoring the verdict, and added 
that if any one ofthe former 21 players participated, the 
club's status will be forfeited. 
Whew! It's been a long year for the walkers, and to 
quote Colarelli, one of the reinstated five, "I'm tired of 
the whole thing. It's over, and I'm sick of fighting. I'm 
just glad some people at Notre Dame will be playing 
rugby this spring." 
Whether or not the punishment fit the crime is sub­ject for debate. But one thing is certain. Ifthe University had disolved the club last springonce and for all, no one would have benefited. And although the efforts of 12 were met with a bitter pill to swallow, this saga has a silver plated lining. Lessons learned by the ruggers are numerous, and the other principles in this scenario have learned as well. 
"We have to constantly remind our clubs that when they go out on the road, they are representing the Uni­versity," says Tom Kelley, Director of Non-Varsity Ath­letics. "That the biggest thing I've learned out of all of this. We tell the club presidents that as representatives 
See CONCLUSION, page 10 
Men 's tennis 

Irishreturnsuccessful from Florida trip 
By RACHEL BLOUNT 
Sports Writer 
While just about everyone else from Notre Dame was tanning on the beaches of Florida, the Irish men's tennis team was improving their spring record in the Sunshine State. The team, which left with a disappointing 1-3 mark, returned to South Bend with seven victories out ofits eight starts. 
The Irish opened the Florida slate with an impressive 6-3 win over defending national junior college champion Central Florida Com­munity College. Their second match, against the top-twenty rated Florida Gators, was the lone defeat for the Irish as they dropped the decision by a 7-2 margin. 
Notre Dame moved on to a 7-2 victory overJacksonville, a 6-3 deci­sion over Flagler College, and a 9-0 win over Eckerd. The Irish finished the trip by edging past South Florida University by a score of 5-4 and crushing both the University of Tampa and St. Leo's College by 
identical scores of9-0. 
The outstanding performer ofthe trip was junior Mark McMahon, who returned from the trip with eight victories and no losses and now stands at 11-1 for the season. Assis­tant coach Peter Irving described the play of McMahon, who dropped only'one set during the entire trip, as "outstanding, just as it has been all season." McMahon's lone defeat this spring was to Ohio State's Ernie Fer­nandez, a three-time Big Ten cham­pion and former U.S. Open qualifier. 
Irish Head Coach Tom Fallon was very pleased with the trip, stating that "things are shaping up nicely. We're at our peak right now. Hope­fully, we can keep up the pace through the remainder of the schedule." 

If there is a concern for the Irish 
mentor, it . is the present layoff Notre 
Dame does not return to action until 
April 2 when Ball State visits the 
Courtney Tennis Center. 
"I'm a little concerned," says Fal­lon. "You never know how a layoff will affect a squad, especially after a road trip. However, the break in play will allow us to experiment a little with the lineup." 
Notre Dame begins a lengthy home stand with the match against Ball State as they play 11 of their 14 home matches during April. The Irish are optimistic about the remainder of their spring season, and captain Tom Hartzell believes that the Florida trip was a real test for the team. "I think we were toug­hened up by Florida," says the senior. "We're really psyched, and we're looking for those 20-plus wins this season." 
Inside: 
-Club Corner, p.lO 
-Lacrosse,p. 9 
-N.I.T.,p. 9 




