~--_,....--..~---------------~----------~----r-~----------~----~----------.-~-----~---~---~------­
.BCAF opens-page 8
' ' 

VOL. XVI, NO. 90 an mdependem srudent newspaper serving norre dame and sainr mary's FRIDAY, FEBRUARY S, 1982 


Br. Cam.pbell states 
0.
C. goals, problems 

Editor's note: Br. john Campbell Captain L Bennett with the help of recent~y spoke with Observerrepor­program co-ordinator Doug Way. In t,,-Toni Rutherford on his duties as order to familiarize myself with our director ofoff-campus housing. area I have been riding with police 

Q: What progress bas been made during some of their tours ofduty. sinceyou took office in December? A major factor in the implementa­
A: All the listings were brought up tion of a t·ommunity-orit:nted polic­to date. Apa t rtmt:nts and houses ing program is the "neighborhood were inspected and graded. Each lis­awareness factor." It is felt that the ting is assigned a code that will help interaction of the off-campus stu­
in matching the apartment or house dents with their police officers and for an owner. All the information on vice-versa is so vital that it warrants the input form is punched on com­extreme attention in this program. puter cards and a transmittal sheet I would also like to call attention and sent with a computer code ofall to the t·ommunity-orit:nted policing the places that will be available for center. The purpose of this center is students to rent. A computer prin­polin· force visibility with a dis­tout is then sent to the office and is tribution center of information available to students. pertaining to crimt:. 
Q: What progress bas been made The centt:r also provides for a with security? convenient location for the off. 
A: A new community-oriented campus students to meet to share 
policing program has been initiated and communil.:ate their problems in South Bend. The police station in with tht: sector officers. It will avail 

Financeforum speaker, Mr. Robert M. Conway, our area is located at 420 N. Frances students of a place wht:re he or she 
can obtain services direct from

(ioldman-Sacbs am/ Company entertained a Street. Its phone number is 284­9127. The program commander is neighborhood police, as opposed to 
officers they don't know. 
Q: Have there been any addition­
Decision pending 
al listings since you took office? 

A: Yes, there were 67 nt•w listings. We inspected 42 new houses and apartments in December alone. Two new buildings have t bc:en made By RANDY GOSKOWICZ believt: that they arc the ones who pointed executive assistant to the such a center would soon becomt: a available to students. The first listing 
Neu•s .\taff will get the building, and I think they president, also expressed concern reality, with questions as to whether was t•xhausted during mid-semt•stt:r haVt· list of 
Speculation continues on WNDUbuilding 
deserve it." for the economic feasibility of the the existing building is sutlkient or, break. We now a new In rt"lTill months there has been a There ha.~ also been some specula­building. His main concern wa.~ the if not, how costly the necessary apartments, houses, and rooms great dt·al ofspt-culation as to whi<:h tion that the Placement Bureau development of a new "Center for building renovation at the WNDll available for tht: fall semester. It can organization will be chosen to oc· might move in to the building. The Social Conn·rns". Such a center site might bt·. be picked up any time by students cupy tht· WNDtl building when they rumors are arising possibly because who are pia t nning to move off
would encompass both the Volun­vat·att· the structure in about six of the present contlict between Speculation concerning the new campus for tht: following year.
teer Services and the Center tiJr Ex­
month~. Placement Services and Chautau­tenants will continue and probably Q: Are any plans made for im­
periential Learning, as Murday had l.t·o Corbaci, Dean of Ac.lministra­qua, which the Administration advocated. intensify a.' Fr. Hesburgh's decision prcJIIed relations u•itb off-campus tion. encompassec.l the issue wlwn might understandably attempt to al­approaches in "about one month."
Tyson stated that the concept of see CAMPBELL oa~o~e 4
he said. "Oftkially, a decision has leviate. However, Fr. John Van not been made." lie added that tht· Wolvlear, Vict:·President for Student dt·dsion will not be made tiJr quilt· Affairs, stated, "They will not get it." 
some time. Fr. llesburgh, returning However, Van Wolvlear refrained 


Fr. Sch laverdiscussesjustice
from Vknna yestt·rday, stated that from speculation as to the building's he would make the decision about new tenants. He said only that "a the building in "about one month." study ha.~ been done" as to the By SONYA STINSON Program at St. Mary's Collegt·. each oftht· colleges ofthe University 
News Staff
Despite the lack ofdirect informa· structure's financial feasibility. Van Fr. Schlaver will speak at a public will have a faculty forum dealing tion, there were a number of people Wolvlear expressed that the selt:c­seminar on Tuesday. Feb. 9, in the with issues of justice. Professor Paul who offered opinions on which tion of the occupants for the build­A seminar headed by Fr. David Hayes-Healy auditorium at 7:30p.m. Conway in the Finance Department, group might move into the building, ing will be based on the cost of Schlaver, Director ofCampus Minis­His talk is t:ntitled "Surrounded by who is helping to organize the teach­or at least which group should. renovating the existing structure to try, and the discussion of justice Injustice: Christian Life in the Belly in, said that the College of Business 
Hill Lawler, Student Union Direc· fit the new tenants. He stressed that issues in the classroom are part of of the Whale." Professor Salvatore Administration has held a justice tor, suggested that the building be space is in extremely short supply the annual Justice Teach-In which Bella in the Management Depart­forum for the past five years, a fa<.·t will take place Feb. 8-1 3. The ment is coordinator of the seminar,
converted to a "student center" on campus, and that "quite a few" which he says surprises many of the which would contain a snack bar, a campus organizations are compet­program is sponsored by the Notre which will include a discussion with 
faculty in other departments. movie theatre, and meeting rooms. ing to make the facility their own. Dame Committee on Education for the audience following the speech. 
In their meeting on Wednesday,l.awkr emphasizl·d a student center Father David Tyson, newly ap· Justice and the Justice Education ln addition to the general seminar, Feb. 3, the business faculty dis­as "the most pressing need on cussed ways to incorporate issues of campus at this time." He cited the t:thics and morality into the coursesprc:sent offit·e space for the Student Mere coincidence they teach. They also discussedUnion in LaFortune Student Center other justice-related issues such a.~ 

as being "adequate", although he the recruitment of minority and


'Bad luck' causes cancellations
stressed the absence ofan "adequate women students and faculty, and tht·
student facility" such as the above. By MARGARET FOSMOE says, "There is no question but that booked for
Fogelberg was con­University's tenure policy, Conway
Don Murday, Student Body Presi­News Staff he (the performer) was ill. He was certs all over the West. The only 
said.dt·nt, suggested a number of pos­Contrary to rumor, officials of the under doctor's orders not to per­available dates for rescheduling the sibilitks tiJr the building's usc. For Notre Dame Athletic and Convoca· form. We tried to get clearance for Notre Dame concert put him far The central part of the tt·ach-in is 
example, ht· suggested that the Stu­tion Center insist the recent series of him to perform, but we simply beyond the 400 mile traveling dis· the encouragement of the faculty to dent Govt·rnmt·nt could install a concert cancellations are merely a couldn't." tance. As a result, the concert was devote class time to topics ofjustice. laundromat for the students. coincidence rather than a dodge by Conway and Law School Professor
cancelled. On the possibility ofestablishing a the performers due 
Robert Rodes are in charge of that
to poor ticket The illness of several band mem· student center. as Lawler had sug· sales. area.
bers wa.~ the rea.~on given for the gestt·d, Murday was cautiously So far this season, three major per­
Rod Stewart concert cancellation. 
"Tht· general question is, What are
reserved. lie stated that "it is not as formers scheduled at the ACC have Rumors persist, however, that the social responsibilities of peoplethough I am saying 'Don Murday is cancelled, each claiming illness. The Stewart cancelled because lagging who ma.~ter your particular sub·not looking for space for a student cancelled concerts include Dan ticket sales would have made tht· jt·ct?" Rodt·s explained. "We are notcenter'. but rather I believe that all Fogelberg, scheduled to perform concert virtually unprofitable. Sas· trying to get everybody to embarkthis past fall; Rod Stewart, scheduled
student facilities need to be ACC officials tried to reschedule sano denies this, saying the 12,000 on a propaganda campaign. We arecombined into one building." Mur· for jan. 21; and Ozzy Osbourne, the Fogelberg concert, but could seat ACC, although rarely sold out, is trying to raise these questions, notday made it clear that he did not feel scheduled for a February. 
not. The major difficulty arose be· always "very attractive and answer them."
that the building was large enough According to Joseph Sassano, cause the Fogleberg tour was profitable" to the performers. Sas· to contain such a facility. events manager and assistant direc­heading west. According to Sassano, sano concedes, however, that ticket Another angle of the teach-in is to When a.~ked which group might, tor of the ACC, in all three cases the there is a maximum of about 400 sales for the Stewart concert "were encourage the students to raise in his opinion, best use the buildmg, circumstances surrounding the can­miles peformers can travel to play a not what we expected," although questions in class. 
he stated, "Volunteer Services and cellation were checked out and all re-scheduled concert. "Beyond that, not low enough to make the concert Jim Wolfe, who represents Stu­the Center for Experiential Learning reports indicate the excuses were there is just too much equiptment to unprofitable. dent Government on the commit· should be combined into one build· 
true and valid. take. It could not be done in the time tee, has the job of encouraging
see FOCUS page 4
ing." lie continued, "(I) honestly In the case of Fogelberg, Sassano we had," he said. student participation. 


News Brief§ 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
A friend of Wayne B. Williams testified yesterday that he told her before fore his arrest that he would confess if authorities investigating the slayings ofyoung blacks built a strong enough case against him. The prosecution rested after the testimony from Sharon Blakely, the I 14th witness in five weeks of testimony so far at the sensational murder trial. The judge refused a defense request for a directed verdict of acquittal, and Williams' lawyers were expected to begin their case today. Mrs. Blakely's testimony came shortly after an ambulance driver said Williams had once startled him by asking, ."had I ever considered how many blacks could be eliminated by 
doing away with one black male child?" -AP 
Budget DirectorDavid Stockman conceded yesterday in Washington D.C. that some states may come out losers once Presi­dent Reagan's "new federalism" is in place. As he carried the Reagan plan to Congress for the first time, Stockman also ran into criticism over the administration's economics and his own credibility. Sen. John Glenn, D-Ohio, accused Stockma t t n ofdeliberately misleading Congress last year and questioned ifhe is now giving reliable figures. "Trust is the most important element in government," Glenn said. Stockman, we trusted you last year. The public trusted you. And we ·were deceived, deliberately deceived." Stockman's personal credibility has been questioned since last fall, when he was quoted in a magazine article as having expressed doubts about the Reagan 
economic plan at the sametime he was publicly backing it. -AP 
An ex-firefighter has been sentenced to two con­
secutive life terms for a shooting spree that left two fireman dead, 
one of them a district chief involved in his dismissal from a Tampa, 
Fla. fire department. Anthony D'Arcangelo, 27, who claimed insanity 
as his defense, was found guilty Wednesday of first-degree murder 
by a Hillsborough Circuit Court jury. Prosecutors claimed 
D'Arcangelo marched into the office ofDistrict Fire ChiefFranz War­
ner Aug. 4 and shot him through the heart because Warner sat on the 
committee which dismissed him. D' Arcangelo then shot and 
wounded firefighter Richard Barrett, and killed firefighter Isaac 
Royal because he blocked a doorway, said Norman Cannella,.chief 
assistant Hillsborough state attorney. -AP 

· A Trenton, .NJ~,·boarding home-has been put out.of business after inspectors found that former mental patients had to eat snow to .quench their thirst, officials said. Charles Mysak, rooming and boarding home standards enforcement supervisor in the Department of Community Affairs, announced Wednesday that the Franklin Boarding Home would be closed today. Mysak said the· 20 women residents, who are being removed from the home, were unclean and suffering from malnutrition and dehydration. -AP 
Kenneth Parnell, convicted of kidnapping Steven . Stayner when he was 7 and holding him for seven years, has been sentenced to 20 months in prison. The sentence, the maximum allowed under California law, was handed down Wednesday by Alameda Superior Court Judge M.O.. Sabraw. Parnell, 50, was sen­tenced to seven years in prison in July for the 1980 kidnapping of 5-year-old Timmy White of Ukiah. A co-defendant in the Stayner case, Ervin Murphy, 40, was sentenced to five years in prison. The kidnappings were discovered when Stayner led White to police. The two were convicted in the Stayner case last month after Stayner tes­tified he was sexually abused during his stay with Parnell. -AP 
The University of Notre Dame Alumni As­sociation will honor an outstanding senior student with a citation based on services to the University and community, and on good academic standing. The new award has been described as similar to the present Sorin and Armstrong Awards pres.ented by the Alumni Association each year to an outstanding alumnus or ~taff member. Nomination forms are available to members ofthe University com­munity and may be obtained in the Alumni 'Office. The nomination deadline is Fri., Jan. 30. 1982. 'During early February, a committee, coordinated by Rev. David E. Schlaver, C.S,C., director of campus ministry, will study the list ofproposed honorees. Other members of the selection committee are Rev. John L. VanWolvear, C.S.C., vice president for student affairs; James McDonnell, director of student activities; Dr. Emil T. Hofman, dean ofFreshman Year ofStudies, and Dr. Katherine Tillman, assistant provost. The award. will be presented to the chosen student at the Spring Alumni Board and Alumni Senate Meeting on Fri., Apr. 30, 1982. -The Observer 
Periods of snow today. High around 20. Snow likely tonight. Low 10 to 14. Chance for snow tomorrow. High in the mid to upper teens. Chance for snow 90 percent today and 70 percent · tonight. -AP 


·,, 
~ 


Design Editor ...................... Maura Murphy DestgnAssistants ................. c......jim Keyes Tim Farrell Typesetters ................................... Steve llurg Toni Rutherford News Assistant ............... Dave Rickabaugh Copy Editors ........................... Paul McGinn Rich Adam Features Layout.......:.............Greg Swiercz Sports Copy Editor .................. Ed Konrady Typist................,...:............:....;Laura Degnan ND Day Editor ................Tom MacLennan SMC Day Editor .o.., .............joe.Musumesi AdDesign ...................................john &Mary Photographer ......................... Cheryl Ertelt Guest Appearances ...... Mike Christopher Robin Monk, Mike Saber 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS publiShed Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat101'1 penods The Observer 1s published by the studefltS of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys Col­lege Subscnptlans may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wntlng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Noire Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduCtiOn nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 

Friday, February 5. 1982 -page 2 

AP Photo File 


Brig. Gen. james Dozier and his wife judith qrrive at Andrews A.F.B., Md. Wednesday after flying to .te United States from Italy. Dozier received a hero's welcome after his 42 day's cap­tivity in that country. (Photo by AP) 


SUNDAY MASSES AT SACRED HEART CHURCH Masses are for Sunday, Feb. 7,1982 

5:15PM Saturday  llev. Thomas King, C.S.c  
9:00AM Sunday  llev. David Schlaver, C.S.C.  
10:30 AM Sunday  Rev. Oliver Williams, C.S.C.  
12:15 PM Sunday  llev. John fitzgerald, C.S.C.  
7:15PM Vespers  llev. Oliver Williams, C.S.C.  

Kohlt ncuuBack CuefuiUlf Aw mfioof 1982 
~we.cb 

LERONE BENNETT, JR. 
Semor -Editor of EBONY Magazine 
'THE SHAPING OF BLACK AMERICA' 


The Observer Friday, February 5, 1982 -page 3 
$2600 losses 


Club receives 'm.ixed response' 

By RANDY GOSKOWICZ 
News Staff 
Chautauqua, also known as the Lafortune Club, ended its first semester with a 'mixed response', with losses estimated at S2600. 
Don Murday, Student Body Presi­dent, pointed out in a recent inter­view that "the object is not to make money... the object is to provide some social alternative to the stu­dents... and that's what it's doing." He continued that in that respect Chautauqua has not been a failure. "This past weekend was probably the best t weekend that Chautauqua has had, with Crystal on Friday and a full house for the movie ("Psycho") on Saturday." 
Murday recounted the beginning of Chautauqua as being Student Government's acquisition of "a room which we can't really do any­thing with because the Placement Bureau is still up there." There were plans in the beginning for a small snack har or a beverage center, but 

Novelist R.J. Maturi visits NDbookstore 
By CHUCK ZAMMIT 
News Staff 
R.J. Maturi, a writer and ti.>rmcr Notre Dame student, was at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore yesterday signing autographs for his new novel called: "As Life Passes." 
Maturi. a resident native of north­
ern Minnesota, attended Notre 
Dame in tht· late sixties but did not 
graduate,lcavingafter his third year. 
Maturi graduated from the Uni· vcrsity of Minnesota in 1970, and earned a master's degree from the University of Oregon in 1972. He is presently a trea~un·r with a con­struction company. 
lie thought of the idea for the tht·mt· of the novel after attending a high school reunion. The book is about his own life and a combination ofthe lives ofof IS other high school friends. 
His novel: "As Life Pa'iscs," is con­cerned with the problems that young people faced in the 1960's. Anthony, the main character is in­volved in his own personal turmoil. His friend, Thomas, is in Vietnam. 
Julia discovers the rebirth of childhood love and its growth to maturity. 
The novel describes settings such as northern Minnesota, Chicago's Union Station, and Harvard's Houghton Library. 
A critical review of the book states: "As Life Passes Is a novel of deep passions, philosophical insight, and powerful human drama involv­ing illusion, reality, and the recur­ring cycle of birth, life, and death ... 
recommended  for  its  gripping  
drama of youth's search  tor  life's  
meaning."  

"Young collc:ge people would en­joy the book because it is trying to find directron which is the theme," said Maturi. 
Maturi's sister painted the work which appears on the cover of the novel, a river scene which symbolizes the tlow oflife. 


Vatican conducts neUJ talks on martiallaUJ 
VATICAN CITY (AP) -Pope John Paul II held "extremely del­icate" talks yesterday with leaders of Poland's Roman Catholic Church in an effort to agree on Church policy toward the martial law crackdown, informed sources said. 
Vatican officials said the Polish­born pontiff received the Polish primate, Archbishop jozef Glemp, and two other visiting Polish pr­elates over lunch at the pontiffs 
private apartment shortly after their arrival from Warsaw. 
"The talks are extremely delicate. There is no lack of matters to be dis­cussed," said a member ofthe Polish delegation who asked to remain anonymous. 
Glemp and the archbishops of Krakow and Wroda will remain in Rome about a week and will leave before the pope departs for Africa on Feb. 12, the Polish official said. 
It wao; the pope's first meeting ing 




Student body campaign enters last minutes 
By KATIE MCDONNELL 
StaffReporter 
The printed ballots and last­minute <:ampaigning are both dear signs that elections for the 1982-83 Student Body President/Vice­President and Student Senate mem­
bers are drawing near. 
This yt·ar thcrt· arc three SBP/SBVP tickcts for the Feb. 8 elec­tion, accompanied by I I candidates vying for Student Senate seats. 
Voting will take place from li:~Oa.m.-l:OOp.m. and 4:~0­6:~0p.m. in each dorm. and from I I :00a.m.-2:00pm in the Lafortune Student Center for all off-campus residents. In tht· event of a runoff. these same times will be observed on Wednesday, Feb. 10. 
Included in the campaigns ti.>r SBP/SBVP arc: Patrick Bor­chers/Maurt·l·n Uurns; Lloyd llurkdBob Yom:hak; and Earl Rix/Tad :-./;u:hl·ff. 
Elt-ctions for the Student Senate are divided into tive districts, four on campus and one· for olf-campus rntdl·nts. The candidates seeking thl·sc positions art·: District I· Paul l>aiba, Robert K. Grunnvald, Cathy Krause. and Christophn Tayhad., Distriu 2: Allcn llank. (irq~ .\Iiller, and Douglas S. O'Brkn; District 5: Thomas Y. Yu; DiMrict -!: Timothy l'arrdl and Joseph Rodriguez; and Off-Campus: Sheryl Simoneau. 
Those who are elected will offi­cially take office on April I, when they begin a year ofservice in a wide variety of areas. The Student Body President chooses his own cabinet, and then works with the Senate on a weekly basis throughout the year to voice student needs. 
According to present s t tudcnt body president Don Murday, the best advice that a new president can heed is to "gct organized, and never kt the job get the best of you." 
"In other words," he says, "always be optimistic." 

Poetry contest 
A S1,000 grand prize will be awarded in the:: upcoming poetry n>mpt·tition sponsored by World of Poc::try, a quarterly newsletter for poets. 
Poems ofall styles and on any sub­
.ject are eligible to compete li)r the grand prize or for l)9 other cash or merchandise awards, totaling over s10,000. 
Rules and oft1cial entry forms arc available from the World of Poetry, 2-1:\1 Stol·kton Blvd., Dept. A, Sacramento, California, 9'i81 .... 

this is impossible as long a.,; the 
Placement Bureau continues to con­
duct interviews in the space, accord­
ing to Murday. 
Todd Hooper, manager of Chautauqua, revealed that his strategy for increasing student atten­dance in the second semester is based on providing entertainment that the students want, such as " 
bands, D.J.s, and movies." The atten­dance at Chautauqua has improved since these activities have begun, according to Hooper. although Hooper admits it has not attracted "hordes" lately. 
In the future Hooper plans to greatly expand promotion of Chautauqua through ads, posters, tlyers, and "perhaps T-shirts which we would give away at the door one night." Hooper asserted that he planned on staying with quality bands and performers for Chatau­qua, as well as well-known movies. 
On the possibility of increasing Chautauqua's hours, Hooper noted the potential use of the sound sys­tem to broadcaM popular music. Hooper maintained, however, that Chautauqua will remain primarily a Friday and Saturday night source of activity. 
with Glemp since Polish authorities declared martial law Dc::c. 13 and suspended the Church-backed Solidarity trade union, the only inde­pendent labor movement in the Soviet bloc. 
Church sources said the:: meetings will give the pope his first oppor­tunity to have a detailed picture of the situation in his homeland and work out an agreement on a Church stance in light of the continuing state ofemeJ;gency. 
The pope counseled patience in 
the early days of martial law, but as 
the crackdown continued, he has shown increasing impatience with the military grip, the internments without trial and the suspension of independent union activities. 
Also under review were the pope's plans to visit Poland in August for the celebration of the 600th anniversary of the Black Madonna of Czestochowa, Poland's holiest shrine. Vatican sources said they doubted the pope would make the trip if martial law remained in ef­fect. 
The Church is a major torcc in Poland, where about 9S percent of the 36 million people are Roman Catholics. With the crushing of the worker movement, the Church has become a major outlet for opposi­tion to the regime. 
ProfessorRoy K. Gottfriedpresented his lecture "Might Manage a Sketch' LeopoldBloom as the authorofDubliners" aspart ofthe jamesjoyce Centenary Celebration.(photo by Cheryl Ertelt) 

I 
1 
1 
r~-~--------------~--~~~---1 
I ' GREAT wAll 
Chinese & Amencan Restaurant & Cocktail lounge
t Banquet rooms auai/able 11anquet 6 group rates auailable
'

! THE WHOLE TOWN IS TALKING... : About our Fantastic Cuisine and our 
t Great Chinese/American Buffet 
, for only $199J ' Now For Your Pleasure We Feature 
~t '~he F;~~~;;;;;~;::P~~ '~$n:m i/,• s
eeScials 
Sat.: e Baked Chicken 
3 
9 
e Sea Salad Chicken ~ Sun.: eDeepFriedShrimp
f 

e Szechuan Beef with Onion 
~ e All above Chinese specials served with soup and non-alcoholic beverage, 
A eAll ~~:~;i~':;,;;;:ae::::~1ials served with potato, vegetable, rolls, and of course 
' our fantastic 25 item salad bar. ' 
HOMEOFTHE I 
BLOCKBUSTER ! 
, 

J/2 pound hamburger t with fries, lettuce, t and tomato t

$1.45 t 

L--------------J. 
HOURS: t 
£~'~ ji~:;: ·.~ ~~ ::.~ 
130 l-;.... t
Dixie HWY.South 
SouthBend J,.._a Ro•eland c ' 
;;:,:; t272-7376 t 
-· ...J 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
~-----......-~-~----~ 
The Observer Friday, February 5, 1982 -page 4 
Dragon slayer 


Conviction benches lawyer 

CHICAGO (AP) -He was the dragon slayer who battled industrial polluters and corporate giants, a fair­haired boy with enduring ballot-box appeal. For years, William ). Scott seemed nearly invincible in his public duels. 
Scott, Illinois' attorney general for a dozen years, is a dapper, handsome politician who mowed down almost every challenger who got in his way. He seemed destined for bigger roles in Republican Party politics. 
As the state's top legal officer, Scott also was an innovator. With the power of government behind him, he took on the big companies ­General Motors, Commonwealth Edison and U.S. Steel. 
But in 1980 he was convicted hy ~ federal court jury of underreporting his income for 1972. Last week, the 
U.S. Supreme Court, without com­ment, refused to consider Scott's ap­peal. 
It was probably the last stop on 
the appeals path and increases the 
likelihood that Scott, now 55, will 
soon head for a federal penitentiary 
~o serve a year-and-a-day sentence. 
Following the high court's ruling, Jeremy Margolis, an assistant U.S. at­torney on the prosecution team, said, "A corrupt public official has been judged by his peers, convicted and properly removed from office." 
Margolis has said he would ask 
U.S. District Judge Martin Aspen on Friday to set a surrender date for Scott. 
Scott always denied any guilt. But the high court's refusal to hear the case was a clear response to Scott's protestations that the tax indict­ment was nothing more than "incredible harassment" and that the trial was engineered to ruin his future. 
Scott's image as attorney general was ofa crusader for the interests of the people; a consumer-protector who filed a S34 million suit against General Motors and who sued U.S. Steel and the city of Milwaukee to clean up Lake Michigan. The Mil­waukee suit is still pending but in June, a federal jury ruled GM must pay S550 to each of more than 
... Focus 


continuedfrom page 1 pear this month, was also cancelled. Osbourne, widely known for his The Stewart concert was also wild and bizarre concert antics, originally planned to be res­recently collapsed during a perfor­cheduled. However, the performer's mance. This was reportedly because only available dates, Sassano says, of a reaction to a rabies serum Os­were during the week the Ice bourn was taking after biting the 
Capades are scheduled for the ACC. head offa bat during a concert. 
Sassano admits the problem of Regardless of statements by ACC 
rescheduling is often complicated officials, rumors persist on campus 
by previous commitments for the that the excuses were not 
ACC. He points out that reschedul­legitimate. A random student survey 
ing is particularly difficult now be­indicated that most students have 
cause of frequent Notre Dame heard these rumors and drawn their 
basketball games at the ACC. own conclusions. 
Ozzy Osbourne, scheduled to ap-Ann Kuharic. a freshman at Saint 
• • . Campbell 
continuedfrom page 1 
dent may need. 
students and neighborhood resi­Q: Have any files been made on dents? off-campus crime? 
A: I've made contact with the A: I've been in conract with Cap­Northeast Neighborhood Associa­tain Bennett and the police data tion and have been working closely processing department. At the with the off-campus commissioner present time the off-campus 
com­

and police in the area. Our office is mittee head, Rich Fischer, is calling 
available to students for any assis­each off-campus student to get a 
tance in a search for housing. The report on crime in the area during 
student can stop by between 8 a.m.-the past year. 
5 p.m. The off-campus housing office Q: Willyou be going full-time in 
is located in Room 31 1 in the Ad­thefuture? 
ministration Building. My secretary, A: I am happy to announce that as 
Elizabeth Wagszczuk, and I are al­ofJanuary 1, 1982, I am full-time and 
ways there for any assistance a stu-very pleased with it. 
a: 

..JOIN THE MOST SOPHISTICATED NUCLEAR ENGINEERING PROGRAM w IN THE WORLD
_I

w $24, 100-$44,800 
¥ IMMEDIATEOPENINGS FOR COLLEGE STUDENTS WORKING-2 TOWARD A BS/BA IN ENGINEERING I MATH I PHYSICS,
~ 
OR CHEMISTRY·2 INCLUDES A FULL YEAR OF GRADUATE LEVEL NUCLEAR w TRAINING AT OUR EXPENSE WITH A $3000 BONUS UPON 
COMPLETION 

a: _.. EARN A STARTING SALARY OF $24, 100 THAT INCREASES TO OVER $44,800 AFTER FOUR YEARS., PLUS FREE MEDICAL AND 
<1: 
DENTAL CARE, UNLIMITED SICK LEAVE, THIRTY DAYS ANNUAL
w 
PAID VACATION, AND EXECUTIVE CLUB PRIVILEGES.
..J 
DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY
(J 575 N. PENNSYLVANIA
PERSONNEL WILL BE ON CAMPUS OFFICE 646 OPO:) INDIANAPOLIS, IN 46204
FEB. 10-11 

317-269-6183 OR 1-800-382-9404
2 
Mary's, believes the excuses were 
valid. Kuharic says, "I don't think 
they lied. I had a ticket to the 
Fogleberg concert, so of course I 
was ·disappointed, but I under­
stood." 
However, other students were not as understanding. Ellen Kosco, a sophomore at N.D. said of the Fogleberg cancellation, "At the time, I believed it. But, later, after the other cancellations, I decided it wasn't just coincidental. I think Notre Dame just doesn't have the capacity to draw big stars. But I will continue to buy concert tickets in the hope they (the performers) will show up." Other students were even more skeptical. Marty Murphy, a N.D. freshman, said "I think they did cancel because ofthe poor ticket sales. After all, Stewart played in Detroit the night after he was supposed to play here." 
Others indicated the cancella­tions might affect future ticket sales. Senior Brian Boyle stated "I won't go to all the trouble of buying the tick­ets if they (the concerts) are just going to be cancelled." 
Ironically, these three concerts were the first cancellations in the 13-year history of the ACC. Two other concerts were postponed and later rescheduled. 
Sassano could provide no other 
reason than "coincidence" for the 
series ofcancellations. According to 
him, there has always been a low stu­
dent interest in ACC concerts. 
"There has always been much more 
community response to the con­
certs," he said. 
There are presently no major per­
formers scheduled for the ACC for 
the rest of the semester. Although 
t'1is could change at any time, Sas­
sano says, because the ACC is 
generally approached through a 
production company six to eight 
weeks before an entertainer is 
scheduled to perform. 
Sean Faircloth, SBP 
Paul McGinn, SBVP 
~we're guilty 
of realism' 
........."................. S!ffiiiiiYIUUI..........
II 
ENJOY YOUR S-PRING BREAK AND ESCAPE TOM EX ICO March 13-20 

Call 291-2923 
291-586~ 
for further details 
....................................,_____, 


ObserverElection Special -The SBP/SBVP Candidates 
Friday, February 5, 1982 -page 5 

Editor's note: The following Q&A is appearing in The Observer to acquaint the students ofNotre Dame with the various Stu­dent Body President tickets. Observer repor­ter Mdrk Worshecb questioned the candidates on theirplatforms. 
Patrick Borchers/ Lloyd Burke/ Maureen Bums BobYonchak 
Q: Howdoyou propose to improve communication between the administration and the students? 
A:First of all, I think it's going to ht:lp that A: We have to attempt to work within the we've had a lot of experience in dealing with channels that are currently laid out. It will be the administratiqn. I spent most of the year interesting to se what the 'Ad Hoc Committee dealing with Fr. Heppen, and so I think I've finds out during its working with the Office of gained a lot ofexperience in that manner, and Student Affairs. We have to get more in wuch 
that will help. I do indeed think with Fr. Hesburgh, the Provost, and Fr. Van­thay didn't listen on the keg policy. The Wolvlear. We have to let them know how we problem is that student government has been fed about different things. In the past it seems reluctant to take action once we've been that student government has come out and turned down. For instance, this time I was a made a point, and maybe the students aren't little dissapointed about the keg proposal be-completely backing it. I want to go after the cause it got sent to Father Van (Wolvear) just things students feel strongly about. Ifwe have before the Ob:;erver shut down at the end of the support of the students on our side and the semeliter. He has ten days to respond to what we're tryng to do, I think it comes across CLC proposals, so he waited until after theOb· a lot stronger. They'll know that this is the seroer had shut down. We didn't find out entire student body speaking. To do that we about it (the veto) until after break. The have to stay in touch with the students. Bob chance for any kind of reponse was gone. I and I want to be the kind ofSBP /SBVP who get think that in an instance like that where they back and try to attend at least one hall council clearly aren't listening, an action along the in every dorm over the course ofa semester. I lines of a boycott of the vending machines think it's important to find out what the stu· would be an appropriate measure to take to 'dents want so we can relay that to the Univer­more or less get their attention. I'm all in favor sity. We've worked with VanWolvlear, and ofdiplomacy, but sometimes when they clear-just working with the Student Senate and the ly aren't listening, other measures have to be Campus Life Council and things like that, we taken. think we know how to communicate lO them. 
A: I think publicity is at least 50 percent of the SBP's job, and I think my various positions such as being Vice-Prt:sident of Morrissey Hall, Publicity Director of a very successful Sophomore Literary Festival, and also writing at the Observer for three years has helped me see how absolutely vital communication is. In my opinion, the major power the SBP has is his ability to generate public opinion and sup­port. I would like to be innovative. 
As far as specific proposals, publicity now is horrible. The cur­rent system depends on about a four link chain of word of mouth, from the Student Senate, to the HPC, to the Hall Council, to the section leaders, and then to the students. We would like to go directly to the students through every means available. I would also like to make the point that one ofthe SBP's big functions is to let the students know what the administration is up to bcfon· they spring it on 
them. He should force the University to make public statements about their various posi· tions. 
Q: What wouldbe your major objective for next year? 
A: It's tough to outline a major objective without sounding hopelessly idealistic, but there are a couple of them. First of all, we've got to keep beating our heads against the wall on the student center thing. I think it's very 
important to try and keep on the work that's been done. That won't come about im­mediately, of course. My major objective would be w try and make the best use of Lafortune as we can. I would like to continue the shows up in Chautauqua which have been doing better recently, as long as they're economically feasible. 
A: Our major objective will be to work within the limitations that this university has placed on the student government. The stu· dent center is important, and we're going to keep pressing for that. There are other ob­jectives that we feel can be reached at the same time. We need a multi-headed attack with the university. There are a lot of things that can be done around here. Some are big, like the student center; some are small -our platform lays those out. 
A: I think the major objective would be to make student government more realistic. I think that if anyone reads our platform they will find only realistic ideas. By doing that, it puts more confidence back in student govern· ment. If you wallow away all of your time working on things that are unrealistic and spinning your wheels, students are going to say that government is a joke. We can't let our­selves get bogged down on something that can't be accomplished, such as the keg proposal which has already been shot down. 
Q: In what issues do you believe students are most interested? 
A: Well, the keg issue drew a lot ofattention, ofcourse. Unfortunately, Fr. Van's rejection of that makes it rather clear that we could have the rectors down there spoonfeeding to us out of the kegs, and they still wouldn't go for kegs. That's gotten the most attention, unfor­tunately I don't think we have much chance of getting kegs. I think the students are most in­terested in the whole social life problem. 
We've proposed anum­ber ofthings, not only hitting the student cen­ter issue very hard, but next year we hope to restructure the HPC grants to allow for direct infusions inlO party funds ofthe dorms to help them out in that area. It's very tough to meet costs now without having kegs. 
·wfiere we'd be taking the money from would be money that in the past has gone to hall improvements, which are the ad­ministration's responsibility. Fr. Heppen has indicated to me that if we would cut back on these hall improvement funds directly to the HPC, that would clear the way for the ad­ministration and maintenence to pick up that work that rightfully belongs to the administra­tion. You know, it is Student Activities money, so I would like to see it going for student ac­tivities and not necessarily for hall improve­ments. 
A: The student center is big. I think the stu· dents have reached a breaking point. In several ways they're tired of the answers they're given from the university. We intend to get some answers. We feel that they have not been giving us the answers in the past, and that is because the SBP could ask for them and not get them, and the students would not get upset about that. It is a student's university .­we make the place up, and they're going to have to start answering to us a little bit more. I think we're going w try to work more with the alumni, with the Board ofTrustees, etc. to get the University back where it belongs with the students. There are a lot ofproblems here that need to be addressed, and ·they need to be 
addresssed soon from the admnistration. We intend w bring those things up. 
A: The students arc most interested in those things which affect their everyday lives. Lack of social space Is one of the biggest gripes. I think that there is a great deal ofpossibility for campus-wide social events, if properly publicized and organized. I think the best short-run term is to have the most input into the new Senior Bar. Another gripe would be the laundry service. Right now there are only 14 washers and dryers in Badin for over 5000 men at the University. That shows almost a blatant contempt on the part ofthe University for those things that affect everyday students' lives, and I think it shows how far out oftouch they truly are. I think another gripe students have is that they don't know what student gov~rnment is doing. They are doing a lot of things this year behind the scenes that need to be carried on, but I don't think that is the best way to do it. I think things have to be up front to get immediate response from the Univer­sity. I think everybody has basically the same gripes around here. You don't have to be bril­liant to know those things which have to be improved. I think we most closely represent the ideas of the students and would have the most effective method ofgetting things done. 
Q.· Whydoyou believeyou are the best ticket for SBP /SBVP? 
A: First of all, we've been around student government longer than any other ticket. I've done cabinet work -I was the Housing Com­missioner this year, which is a very active commission. I think cabinet work is the closest experience you can get to being a SBP. You deal with the same kinds of issues; you deal with the same people. Also, I was on the Senate back in '80 and '81, and I was very active then. I started the escort service. Be­tween Maureen and me, I think we've covered just about everything there is to cover in stu­dent government, aside from being SBP and VP. In addition, I'm the only one in the cam­paign who has ever met with the trustees. I've met with them twice. 
A: Experience. Bob is the president of St. Ed's and has worked on the Sophomore Ad· visory Council. I'm the president of Flanner, have worked on the Student Senate, was an HPC rep for them, and was also a CLC mem­ber. We know how to run an efficient student government by virtue of having run dorm governments. That helps a lot. I think it lets you know how to delegate and how to set your priorities. By virtue of having worked within the systems over the past year, we 
think we can strengthen and fortify the posi· tions that communication-wise are alread} open and maybe open up some new ones. 
see CANDIDATES page 6 
A: I think that there are several qualities that the SBP has to have. He has to have all ofrhem. First of all, he has to be sincere. We've gone around and talked to hundreds and hundreds of people, and I think they feel qur sincerity. The other thing a person o.eeds to be .is confi, dent. Both of us have shown since the time we've been here that we have worked in various capacities and been active in the Notre Dame life. We're realistic; we know what's going on. Also, another factor must be dynamic, enthusiatic leadership. Somebody . has to take charge and get things done. I think that also we're a diversified ticket, and we compliment each other well. Together, we don't follow one main line of thinking, but we mix together. 
The Observer Friday, February 5, 1982 -page 6 
President submits arms reduction plan 

WASHINGTON (AP)-President Reagan said yesterday the United States submitted a draft treaty to the Soviet Union for mutual reduction of medium-range nuclear arsenals and "a major contribution to security, stability and peace." 
The proposal, which embodies 

Reagan's Nov. 18 plan to reduce 
intermediate-range nuclear 
weapons in Europe, was placed on 
the negotiating table in Geneva on 
Tuesday, according to David R Ger­
gen, a senior White House spokes­
man. Gergen said it contained no 
new proposals. 
"I call on President Brezhnev to 
join us in this important first step to 
reduce the nuclear shadow that 
hangs over the peoples of the 

world," stated President Reagan in 
written statement released yester­
day. 
In his statement, Reagan called at­tention to a speech he made Nov. 18 at the National Press Club outlining "a broad program for peace." His statement continued: 
"In that address, I stated that the delegation that was about to depart for Geneva for negotiations with the Soviet Union on intermediate-range nuclear forces would carry with it the U.S. proposal, according to which the United States would forego the planned deployment of Pershing II and intermediate-range, ground-launched Cruise missiles if the Soviet Union dismantled its SS-4, SS-5 and SS-20 missiles." 
"On Tuesday, Feb. 2, at Geneva, the United States submitted to the Soviet Union a draft tf"eaty, embody­ing that proposal, in order to move the negotiations forward as rapidly as possible," Reagan said. 
On Wednesday, in Moscow, Soviet President Leonid I. B T rezhnev proposed a two-thirds cut in U.S. and Soviet medium-range nuclear weapons in Europe by 1990 and said the United States was avoiding serious negotiations on the issue. 
Gergen responded from the podium of the White House press room: 
"We reject the accusation that the United States is stalling the INF (Intermediate Nuclear Force) negotiations and we are familiar with the Soviet proposal for phased reductions from an alleged current balance." 
The spokesman said that this balance "is based on selective use of data and is not a meaningful basis for negotiations." 
Gergen, Reagan's director ofcom­munications, and other administra­tion officials have maintained that the Soviets are "seeking the right to have more weapons" than the United States by including the British and French nuclear forces in its count ofnuclear weapons. 
In addition, he said the Soviets are seeking to include aircraft and other nuclear systems in the early talks. 
This, he said, "needlessly compl­icates the negotiations at an early stage rather than focusing on the sys­tems over which NATO and the Soviet Union ion have expressed greatest concern -that is land­based nuclear missiles." 
The Reagan announcement, read 
from the podium in the White House 
press briefing room after a reporter's 
inquiry, left the administration in 
the unusual position of outlining its 
course while both sides in the talks in Geneva have proclaimed a news blackout. 
It could be intended to help per­suade Western Europe that the United States is serious about the arms talks while pushing for allied support of sanctions against the Soviet Union in the wake of the military crackdown in Poland. 
Secretary of State Alexander M. HaigJr. has said that the Geneva talks are in a special category and should be insulated from the ups and downs ofthe U.S.-Soviet relationship. 

slides.(photo by Cheryl Ertelt) 
students decided they would 
continuedfrom page 5 
"' 
Q:Do you think the elections 
have come too early? 
Borchers.· 
A: That's a tough question to answer. The elections didn't really catch me by surprise. I expected them to be in early March. It didn't cramp us at all. A long transition has advantages and drawbacks -I think 
even study the 
• • • Candidates 

this transition may be too long. Whoever is elected will be in there and trying to get ready for quite a while, and Don ( M urday) is going to have to worry about gettting them moved in for longer. So long trasi­tions, yes, they'll have more time to do the job, to get into the swing of things. I don't think it's going to hurt Don's effectiveness, but it will give Don a lot more to do in these last couple of months. I would expect that in the future that they will be later than this. 
Burke.· 
A: I think we could have probably waited a week, but in the same aspect, you need that six-week, seven-week transition period to make the next student government 
Additional statements.· 
Burke.· 

I think the im­portant part is the realistic aspect of our campaign. We are going to try and approach things that we can change. The students are tired of hearing a lot of promises that never come to pass. 
Rix.· 

I still think we need a continued push from the student government for a new stu­dent center. I think that getting in 

Technical Majors: 




lJ.S.Steelinvitesyou
to checkouta career 
tn• management. 
D 
D 
You're a self-starter. U.S. Steel is a company on the move, and we're looking for people with the initiative to tackle major projects and push them through to completion. · You're a fast thinker. While the clock ticks, you may have to make decisions involving the future of thousands of U.S. Steel people -and the in­vestment of millions of dollars. 
D 
You're a team player. At a dynamic place like U.S. Steel, guiding and 
motivating others is likely to be an important part of your career in 
management. 
Today U.S. Steel is a whole lot more than the nation's largest steelmaker. 
We're in chemicals, with annual sales of over $1 billion. We're in resource development, ready to fill industry's growing needs for coal. iron ore, ura­nium and other vital materials. We build complex structures all over the country. We offer engineering services all over the world. And that's far from all. 
Join us, and you're immediately a full-fledged member of our manage­ment team. Y6ur opportunity for advancement is as bright as you are. 

Money is good. Fringe benefits are liberal. And you can take advantage of a variety of continuing personal-devel­opment programs-including tuition refund. 
Visit your placement.offrce and check out the openings our representa­tive plans to discuss. But don't worry if what interests you most happens not to be on the list. Just write us with your qualifications: Dave Bates, College Relations. U.S. Steel, 600 Grant St., Pittsburgh, PA 15230. ,<\,n equal opportunity employer. 
Meet the U.S. Steel representative 
~ United States Steel 
on campus: 
Fri., Feb. 19 

Friday, February 5, 1982 -page 7 



Editorials 
Full employment crucial to Reagan plan 
Po1gnant tributes to Franklin D. Roosevelt haven't necessarily turned on the generation that knows him on­ly through history books and the recollections of their parents. 
But, in view of today's (Feb. 5) national unemployment report, which is likely to proclaim a post­Depression high of around I 0 per­cent, hazy remembrances of FDR's can do government are enough to make many of us ask, "Where is it 
In the face of what are widely believed to be bleak prospects, Presi­dent Reagan wants us to ignore the doomsayers. "(The) state of... the 
economy will be better--if we sum­mon the strength to continue on course we have charted," was his as­sessment last week. 
And, strangely enough, young Americans, in particular, have been agreeing with the president. A stun-presidential race. Younger voters won't necessarily flock to a Democratic Party that rants and raves but offers no innovative alternatives. As Wood noted, political non­alignment is likely to continue; inde­pendent or non-party slates are likely to benefit from the chaos. 

Along with the extra efforts to safeguard the fair competition for available employment, job training would be a good start for both parties. While CETA had its faults, the obligation to train the unskilled is a reality that neither government nor the private sector can ignore. Unlike robots, underdeveloped human ( lpi­tal can talk back with a vengenance. 
FDR knew this very well. He gave jobs to millions of the unemployed and became a legend as a result. Fifty years from now, will Ronald Reagan 
ManeDGI• ad Cody Shearer 
Here and Now 

enjoy the same legacy in the reuwu~­cences of those who knew him? 
now?" Finding a satisfying job Poll discovered that 72 percent of 18­
has beccome a national nightmare for to-29 year old Americans believed 
a new generation of American the Reagan program would 
workers. The era of slow growth is "eventually help the country's 
leaving a scar on their self-esteem. economy." In fact, 44 percent of 
In Los Angeles, for example, two this age group felt the program al­
women acquamtances are still trying ready had a positive impact. (Not 
to tum their bachelor's degrees into surprisingly, confidencce in the 
challenging salaried positions almost Reagan strategy decreased as respon­
nine months after graduation. Bos­dents got older.) 
ton, one center of the so-called "You've got remember that voters 
"boom" in data processing, has in the younger age group are on the 
done little for another friend and her up side of life," advised pollster 
cohorts who've been laid off by a top Peter Han. "They:re invariably 
!light electronics company. more optimistic about any aspect of 
As the Bureau of Labor Statistics the future--whether it's the state of 
n:ported last month, unemployment the nation or the economy. Why? Be­
has cut its biggest swath through the cause whethef they're earning 
ranks of the under-30 crowd. $10,000, $12,000, or $15,000, it's Teenagers and blue-collar workers still more than they've ever had." comprise the majority of the The optimism, he adds, is a "verdict wounded, with the jobless rate in on their own lives not Ronald some sectors as high as 20 percent. Reagan." 
But the victims also include white­Indeed, as long as recovery and collar types, particularly women, advancement seem in reach, it may who find themselves underskilled or be easier for a single 24-year-old than overskilled for a changing job for a 32-year-old family man to market. Sure. sales and clerical jobs remain politically mum. arc relatively plentiful, even if that However, the economic self­includes pan-time work. Yet, as interest that breeds political com­labor economist Sam Rosenberg of placeny today could explode if Roosevelt University in Chicago Reagan's program eventually fails. points out, college degrees are No one knows just how much becoming a prerequisite where four patience the "Me-generation" can years of high school once sufficed. muster. 
Happier days, by the administra­But Han and other pollsters agree tions jUdgment, arc just around the that unemployment could be a hot comer. But such predictions are run­issue for baby-boomers by 1984, if ning up against a widely-reported not by this November. Leonard 
relucctancce among U.S. busines­Wood of the Gallup Organization smen to gamble with new tax cuts on calls unemployment "a very salient new investments. If anything, issue" for young voters. available cash is going toward ac­Unemployment shouldn't just quistions; job creation, it seems, is trouble Ronald Reagan, or any of his low on the totem pole. possible successors in the 1984 

P.O.BoxQ 
Reader takes exception to jackman 'defense' 
Dear Editor; I am writing in llrst-slnkc uvct tl. Jackman au­
reference to Tom Jackman's editorial monishes Granger for "ignoring all 
entitled "In Defense of Domers" tenets of logic and reason''--a fur­
(I /29/81 ). It is apparent that Jack­ther indication that he faces the mat­
man did more to validate Granger's ter in totally the wrong spirit. 
article than Granger could do alone. Jackman's assertion that the 
Perhaps my perspective has some­"defies... most laws of libel" only 
thing to do with this. Before I came drives home the absurdity of his un­
to Notre Dame (as a graduate stu­derstaking. 
dent) Notre Dame meant very little to Jackman is correct on one point . 
me. It is obvious to me now that to He asserts that the Granger article 
Jackman and others, even tongue-in­about Notre Dame was "different" 
check barbs directed here are enough than Granger's "usually harmless, 
to inspire invective unrivaled by the pseudo-humor ccolumns." The dif­
devil himself. ference is this time, Granger's rib­
I read the Granger piece. It was bing was directed at us, and we all 
harmless--the kind of frivolous have to learn how to take a joke, 
barking that is only lent credibility don't we? 
when the 'accused' threaten a nuclear 
Ben Garcia 


Pro-lifers must plan strategy 
On January 22, 1973, the Supreme abortion groups have counted 48 Court announced its decision in the senators strongly opposed and 8 
Andrew Cocbran 
case of Roe vs. Wade. In that ruling senators" moderately" opposed to a the Court held that a Texas law constitutional amendment to ban prohibiting abortions was uncon­abortioll As a resulr, there is indeci­
stitutional because it violated the sion in the S e nate o v e r the f u t u re iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
course of the pro-life movement
defendant's "right to privacy," adequate primarily for two reasons.
including the right to "terminate Pro-life forces in the Senate are First, it does not declare that a fetus is pregnancy," without demonstrating now divided into two camps. One a "person" for constitutionala "compelling state interest" in camp is supporting a constitutional purposes, thereby leaving theprotecting the unborn child. The amendent proposed by Sen. Orrin premise of abortion law unchal­
ruling was premised upon the court's Hatch of Utah (SJ. Res. II 0) It lenged. Prof. Charles Rice of Notre
declaration that the fetus is not a declares, "The right to abortion is Dame has noted that the Supreme
"person" under the Fourteenth not secured by the Constitution," Court recognized the importance of
Amendment and therefore has no and shifts the power to restrict and personhood in Roe vs. Wade.
constitutional rights. 
prohibit abortions to Congress and Second, the amendment's operative 
Opponents of abortion have the states. Since it is a constitutional sentence, quoted above, does not sought Congressional action since amendment it would require a two­overrule Roe. The Supreme Court 1973 to repeal this ruling. The only thirds majority approval by both has rejected the implication that there significant victory in the effort has houses ofCongress before being con­is a constitutional "right to abor­been to halt the use offederal funds to sidered by the states. tion." The first sentence of the Hatch pay for abortions. The Congressional The other camp, led by Senators Amendment ha little chance ofenact­
elections of 1978 and 1980 appeared Jesse Helms and John E t ast of North ment precisely because it is a con­to change the outlook for action. Carolina, have proposed the Human stitutional amendment, and one that Many leading abortion advocates Life Bill (3. 158), which declares that seeks to restriCt abortion. Only 16 were dumped in favor of pro-lifers. "a ·human being exists from con­constitutional amendments have been enacted since the Bill of Rights
traception'' and that all h t uman 
was passed in the late 1700's.
During the past year, hopes of a beings are "persons" protected by 
rapid end to over one million ann~~~ the Fourteenth Amendment. 11 The Hatch Amendment's suppor­
abortions have been dashed by pohll­would require only a majority vote in ters admit that it will only place juris­
cal reality and indecision over the Congress to pass. diction over abortion in the hands of
proper vehicle with which to end I have read analyses of the Hatch Congress and state legislatures. It
abortion. The political reality is that Amendment written by its supporters will not end abortion. Supporters of
while there is a solid pro-life majority and critics. I am convinced that the the anti-abortion movement have
in the House of Representatives, Hatch Amendment is legally inade­what is needed and what is polictical­
there is no such majority in the quate and has little chanc t e to become ly possible in the Human Life Bill. 
Senate. Political anal~sts for anti-the law of the land. It is legally in-

Editorial Board 

Edilor-in·Cbief......................... ....john McGrath 
Founded November 3, 1966 The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report­ed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the conununity, and the free expression of varying opinions oo campus, thlousb lcucrs, iii encounscd. 
P.O. Bo:z Q, Notre Dame,,IN 46SS6 
Executive News Editor.............. Kdli Flint Sports Editor.............. ...... ........ Skip Desjardin Neu•s Editor............................. l>avid Rk"kabauKh PbotoEdilor................... ......john Macor ~~we J::xecuti1•e Editor........... Mary Agnes Care:~ Editorials l:'ditor.......................Anthony Walton ~MC News Editor......................Cathy Domanico Features Editor ................... .....Gregory Swiercz 
Department Managers 
Business Manager ...................... ..Rich Coppola Production Manager ................... Michac:J Monk Controller .............................................joe Mulflur Circulation ManagtT .............Tom Mad.ennan Advertising Manager ....................... Chris Owen Systems ,Uanager...........................Bruce Oaklc:y 

-------------------~----------­
l!!!!!!!!!l!!l!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!s H0 W C flSEiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiliiiiiiiiiiFiiiiiiiiilrict•ay•,Fiiebr.uaiiiiryiiiis,ili19iiiisziiiiiipa•ge•s 

Fest kicks off Black History Month 
The poetic musical 'And You Thought All We Could Do Was Dance' is one ofthe events ofthe Black Cultural Arts Festival. 
J3lach Cultural j{rts Festival 
JiJ,,_':!f 1 /982 -Jlt.rcl• o 

Rod Stewart concert cancelled for good 
Sunshine Promotions and the Notre Dame A.C. C. regret that due to unavailability ofdates at the A.C.C., the Rod Stewart concert will not be rescheduled. Sunshine made efforts to reschedule the date, 
however, the Ice Capades were booked atthe A.C.C. during the on~­possible rescheduled time period and other events were booked on dates routable for Rod Stewart. Refunds are available now at the Ath­letic and Convocation Box Office, Gate 10 only (not at any outlet regardless ofwhere purchased). The A.C. C. Box Office is open Mon­day through Saturday, 9 a.m. -5 p.m. All refunds must be completed witin the next two weeks. The Rod Stewart concert was originally scheduled forJanuary 21 and was postponed due to illness ofseveral band members. For any out-of-town ticket holders, refunds are available by mail. Send your tickets to the ticket office at the Athletic and Convocation Center, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
L 
" 
0 

May the besttnan UJin?~:'!r 

During campaign time we always 
find out what a repressive, 

autocratic place we are living in. 
Some people seem to believe that 
our suffering here will be remem­
bered in 40 years in the same ways 
we now remember the POW's of 
World War II and the plight ofthe 
slaves in early America. 

We are tortured by our continued denial of normal nutrition (kegs). The food we do receive is severely rationed (saltine crackers and peanut butter). They may even be slowly driving us into mindless sub­mission by drugging that salad dress­ing with the funny colored specks in it. 
We sit quietly in our cells, waiting for our Moses to lead us out of bondage into a land flowing with Michelob and social life. Unfor­tunately none ofthe candidates have a long white beard or even faintly resemble Charlton Heston. 
I would love to be the president of something, but I would hate to run for any kind ofoffice. That's the hard part. Once you're in office you don't have to worry about smiling or kiss­ing babies or shaking hands. You don't have to hide when you get stinking drunk so no one will see you. 
Once you get elected, people don't care how you feel about this issue or that law, they just want to know what kind ofcereal you eat for breakfast or who your favorite TV star is. Ifyour just a student presi­dent people probably just forget you altogether -at least until all the campaign posters arc taken down. 
E
ntering its 14th year, the Black Cultural Arts Festival begins Sunday in what commemorates Black History Month. 
By ]oy Leapheart 
The festival is entirely organized and run by students from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. It has grown from a week long program concentrated entirely on the arts to the diversified program that is to be presented this year. 
"Everything we do has a reason," 
explained Darlene Sowell, chairper­
son ofthis year's festival. "We pick 
our speakers because ofthe diver­
sity oftheir talents and careers. We 
want to present a positive image of 
the Black experience and a positive 
role model, not only to the majority 
students on campus but to the 
minority students as well." She also 
explained that the exposure ofa na­
tionally known name gives a 
relatively small and a relatively 
young festival a little wider recogni­
tion. 
The goals ofthe Black cul­
tural Art's Festival are to provide an 
awareness ofBlack cultural ex­
perience, an understanding of 
various aspects of Black life, and an 
awareness ofthe achievements and 
talents ofthe Black students within 
the Notre Dame community. 
Ms. Sowell stated that the festival also gives recognition to the black students on campus. "We felt that the Black students on campus needed exposure more than any­thing else. they have a definite con­tribution to make to this campusand the festival gives them the oppor­tunity to make others aware ofthat fact." she continued, black students are willing to contribute to campus life. The festival only spotlights a few ofthe many forms that contribution can take." 

"We are attempting to begin a tradition ofsharing with the festival gere at Notre Dame," stated Ms. Sowell, "We want to share our culture and experiences with everyone interested in them. we also want to stir interest in those who have shown none and fan the flames ofenthusiasm in those with only a slight interest." 
The festival began in 1968like any other fledgling program it had its problems. In early years one ofthe definite disadvantages was the ab­sence ofan established budget. In the beginning, the festival was con­sidered to be a part ofor at least un­der the authority of the Black 
Cultural Arts Council. Therefore, 
money for the festival came only 

from the small amount allotted to 
the BCAC. 
this had many drawbacks and a 
definite adverse effect on the fes­
tival. An inability to make definite 
plans because ofa lack ofmoney was 
one ofthese. Since, the festival had 
no budget ofits own, it had to first 
contact a speaker about making an 
I see from all the posters hanging 
on every conceivable vertical ­
surface that student elections are coming up. (If you haven't seen them I suggest consult your 
Paul Kosidowski 
·Second Thoughts 
local opthamologist immediately). 
After a very cold walk to class this 
morning I was comforted by the 
pictures ofsmilingcandidates stand­
ing in the same frigid weather with­
out a coat on. 
Every campus needs student 
government officials and, until we 
find a better way ofchoosing them, I 
suppose we have to live with elec­
tions. But, as of now, I have seen all 
the posters already and wouldn't be 
disappointed ifthey all suddenly 
crumbled into dust. 
Everyone should read the plat­
forms at least once, though; I still do 
and this is my fifth election. My 
political worldliness has revealed 
some important election facts to me. 
For example, the most frequently 
used campaign word is "innovative," 
but after five years all this innova­
tion is becoming monotonous. The 
second big word is "continue" -I 
will continue this program and con­
tinue support ofthis policy. With all 
this continuing going on its hard to 
find the innovation. 
I don't meant .o imply that the campaigns are boring. This year may even mark the end ofthe monumen­
tal Battle ofSt. Michael's. Our new 
president may finally get the ad­
ministration to come to its senses 
and win the fight against mandatory 
laundry servicefor the men ofNotre 
Dame. The smell ofvictory will be 
sweet (and no doubt static-free). 
Our grandchildren will read of this 
and other events in years to come 
and smile as we proudly announce 
that "we were there." 
Although they are not labeled as such, there seem to be liberal and conservative tickets in this contest -just like the "real" elections. The conservative ticket is distin­guishable because it has the most continue's in the platform. 
The liberal candidates, on the other hand, wish to govern the uni­versity from Nepal-in the Himalayas. They also wish to make the resident halls "democratic," so we can function as "adults." All dorm policies would be voted on, each member -including the rec­tor -receiving one vote. I showed this platform to one of my "adult" friends who lives in an "adult" apart­ment complex. He loves dogs and hate s the landlord, but has never been offered the chance to vote on the no-pet policy or remove the landlord by legislative fiat. 
Campaign promises for student elections usually concentrate on the trivial or the impossible. We will probably hear soon from our cur­rent president. He will tell us what trivial things he has done and what impossible things he hopes the next administration will continue to ·push for. 

appearanc_e. Ifan affirmative answer 
were received they were kept 
waiting while funds were solicited 
from different departments in the 
university. Because of the slowness 
ofthis process the festival lost many 
ofits speakers. 

In recent years and for many reasons the chiefamong them being financial, according to Director of Minority Student Affairs Edward Blackwell the festival and the coun­cil have become two separate or­ganizations on campus. " Ofcourse," continued Mr. Blackwell, "The Black Cultural Arts Council is still con­sidered to be the main sponsor of the festival on campus." This is be­cause the membership is basically the same since the split, the festival has received its own budget and has been growing steadily. 
As for the present problems, according to Ms. Sowell they are practically non-existent. "The fes­tival is finally coming ofage. We have reached the point where we are established as a part ofcampus life. The University has given us tremendous support throughout the years both spiritually and financially. One ofour greatest advances is the ability to get the festival planned ahead of time." She stressed the idea that the on thing the festival works for and will continue to work for is continued awareness of the black 
experience, particularly when 
applied to the students on campus. 
"After all," she concluded, "they 
are the festival." 

The Observer Features Section 
Friday, February 5, 1982 -page 9 


Letter written by m.y conscience 
Dear Sir: 1 read your columns regularly, and frankly consider most ofthem should be written in brown ink because of 

Rev. Robert Griffin 
what they remind me of. Last week you wrote your mas­terpiece, which I read thinking I'd be sick. So you didn't go into the woods with the girl? Ha, ha, ha, Father Grif­fin, was there really a girl? Frankly, I don't even think Letters to a Lonely God there was a woods, because frankly, I've been there. 
stood so little then and remember so much now. In 
S
(Signed) Was There Once Myself memory, Icatch glimpses ofmyself, and even as I think: ometimes "I was sixteen then," the reflection I have seen in that writing as a Christian adult, I find th~t I have said backward glance has disappeared; whatever I succeed things that were dishonest. When the d~shon~sty 1s 
in staring at is somethingdifferent from my sixteen yearpointed out to me, I feel embarrassed. D1sscrv1ces to the old self. A boy stands alone in sunlight, wanting the truth arc never profitable. Readers are never.help~d .by 
world. Why does summer seem to lie about him withpious pretensions; and they back away from 1denufymg woods green with leaves and fields lazy with honey
with an experience they they discern as unreal or 
bees and wild flowers underfoot? Why docs the boy feel untrue. 
so helpless about speaking to anyone what he feels,In literature or drama, we feel cheated when the plot when everything touching the sense speaks to him?
complications arc resolved by the "deus ex machina" ending-the god out ofthe machine lower.ed from the Sweetness and bitterness belong to a memory oflost heavens to reward the virtuous and to pumsh the 
time· but when I was sixteen, was I really in so much wicked, rescuing characters who are too inept, even 
pain 'from so great a longing? Was I embarrassed into with the author's help, to rescue themselves. There are muteness and numbness by the body's emotions? Is the pious kinds ofwriting where angels are sent to d.efend 
boy in sunlight an imagined self! fell in love with, in souls at the crossroads whose innocence seems m dan· preference to the actual creature who was me, too un­gcr ofstraying onto the badlands ofvice. In s~c.h tales, remarkable to be remembered?
the author distons the realities ofgood and evil m order At sixteen, I was painfully shy; I'm sure ofthat. When I
to instruct or edify the reader. In real life, grace, in whatever way it comes to us, does not. ass~ me the for~s fell desperately in love, as I sometimes did, I would try ofangels. My own little ploy ofsalvation m last weeks hard tcJ be noticed. I would show off, doing something I 
piece -a father's advice, urging his s.on to style a~?. thought I was good at. Afterwards, without fail, I would class, remembered by a teenager at a ume ~hen a cns1s be embarrassed to discover I had made a fool of myself,ofsexual choice was at hand -operated hke a secular 
because I wasn't very good at anything. "At least," I equivalent to a rescuing angel. A father's advice, by itself thought, "I can be very moral." I went to church, taught -no matter how well it is remembered -would be a Sunday school, and was, morally speaking, a straight ar­highly inadequate lifeline for a kid to depend upon to row. "He's a clean living boy," the neighbors would tell save his decency. 
my mother. My mother would tell my father, and both My problem, as one who writes, is that I simplify and of them would be proud.
sentimentalize the past. Nostalgia is one of the few Morality-alot ofit, at least, when you're very youngthings in life that gets better with age. Nostalgia is a -is a matter ofluck. You could imagine yourselfbeingmood ofremembrance in which you feel haunted by a wild, but it took courage to be wild; you could get into sense ofloss and regret, whether it be ofold times or old trouble ifyou were too wild. You were not apt to get ar­loves or irreplaceable yesterdays, which seem so good rested, ifyou behaved yourself, and you didn't catch 
because they have been retouched like photo~r~phs by 
diseases, and things never got complicated by arrange­the air brush ofthe imagination. To be nostalgic IS to be ments you were not ready for.
overtaken by a rush offeclings that are less happy than In my desire to be honest, I could lie to you again, tel· laughter and less grieving than tears; yet, you are close ling you more about myself than I really know. 
to the point of laughing and crying, because you have Somehow, through a chemistry oflife that mixed to­become time's idiot, mainlining on emotions that gether God's grace, free will, a family's love; love, luck, stretch you apart as though you were drugged on fear, instincts, training, environment, and events, which
sweetness. Nostalgia is engaged in hy the young, li~tening tot~~ I didn't notice, that were shaping me into growth, I 
lkatles or remembering reruns of" Leave It To Beaver. became a man who believes in virtues and ideals to Nostalgia becomes an art form only when you are o~der. which he is more or less faithful. It was that way with An entire industry has been created on the nostalgia 
me, and it will be that way with you.
needs of middle-aged people who want t.heir moods None ofthis would be worth saying if, last week, I manipulated with the remembrances ofthmgs past. 
hadn't been dishonest with you and dishonest withNostalgia is truth with make-believe added; there's no­myself. Growing up is hard enough without some dullthing wrong with make-believe, if it keeps c~~se to the fool like me spinning you fantasies of how an interven­
truth. It seems foolish to let the sweetness ofhfc depend on a lie. My memories of being young and knowing ing angel rode in for the rescue like Hopalong Cassidy 
desire arc almost certain to be lies, because I under-home on the range. 


Dreyfuss superb in Who~ Life' 
B
ccausc discovers that sheer survival isn't hand --the elimination of this 
a theatrical production is an art enough. He demands that he be energy. The choice is made thatofsuch tleetingexistcnce, Broadway released from the hospital so he can much more difficult.

will oftcn call upon their pals across 
die. The doctors, clutching their 
The screenwriters have engross­the continent to supply a permanent Hippocratic oaths, refuse the re· 
ingly presented the issues through quest questioning the sculptor's 
clever dialogue and subtle exposi­
:::EB:iltiiUfJir~IM 
competence to make such a deci­
tion. Along author Brian Clark, sion. Harrison hires a lawyer and 
Teginald (Twelve Angry Men) Rose
Dennis Chalifour 
brings his case to the courts. The 
must be credited with a job well film's climax crowns the clashing 
done in adapting the play to the moral dilemmas that are offered
Movies screen. The two have taken ad­
througout. It is difficult for me to im· 
vantage ofall the filmic freedom of­agine anyone this side ofconscious­
record of a particularly succcssful fered to them and expressed the 
ness whose heart won't be
play. Brian Clark's Whose Life Is It story in motioa picture terms. In or­
catapulted amidst the issues on the
Anyway? could easily have been just der to give the audience a sense of other side of the screen. Life is cer­
a simpie recording of the mortality Harrison's creative ability, we are 
repartee that wowed audiences in taken to his studio. Likewise, Har­
tainly the year's most thought­provoking film.
New York, but directorJohn Bad· rison's loss is expressed through a ham has crafted a truly filmic transla­What throws a twist into these dream sequence. the script offers us tion. cold issues is the amount ofaffection every opponunity to get to know 
On screen, Life is a thoroughly the audience will end up feeling this unfortunate figure. engrossing drama carried far bcyond toward Harrison. This is a direct 
Meanwhile, john Badham is given the proscenium arch of the ongmal rcsult of Richard Drefuss' marvelous every opportunity to put his talents 
production. When Ken Harrison performance. I have almost got to to work. His camera work is con­spcaks of thc grcat loss he feels, we wonder how Tom Conti could ever stantly a reminder ofthe pain Har­can sympathize because we've seen have brought this character to life in rison is suffering, jolting us every 
what his life was once like. The film the original Broadway production once in a while into the reality of opens with Harrison putting thc without the use of moviedom's quadriplegic life. The dream se­finishing touchcs on a monumental close-up. As a literal talking head, 
quence gets to the root ofthe sculpt· sculpture. A few casual words with Dreyfuss sculpts his face into a con­
ing metaphor that seems surely to his girlfriend and associates precede stantly working whole that enun­have been lost in the stage version. thc accident. Firemen and doctors ciates both thc artistic intelligence 
Presenting issues in an entertain·earn their paychecks saving Ken's and extreme pain of loss that Ken ing and thougt provoking mannerlite, but six months later we learn Harrison embodies. Harrison is the 
Whose LifeIsItAnyway is not only a
the conscqucnces of that rctention whole energy ofthe film. This stands fine adaptation but a fine film as well
of life. As a quadriplegic, Harrison as a counterpoint to the issue at 
Soapies capture mythical fantasyland 
I 
don't generally watch soap operas. Now don't gct me wrong. It's 
not that I have anything against soap operas, I guess I'm just not 
like most other people. For some reason, my pulse never starts 
racing at the strains ofABC's" Love in the Afternoon..." commercials. 
And somehow I manage to maintain my flow ofthought whenever 
Luke and what's-her-name are mentioned. And ifhe hadn't had a hit 
record, I might have gone my entire life never knowing of the exis­
tance of Noah Drake. 
It doesn't end there. Somehow the soaps lack that family-next­door believability that I've always fallen for. Take a good look at the typical suburban Soapland home. "The Waltons" it isn't. Ifmy house was that spotless they'd cancel my subscription to "Shack and Gar­den" in an instant. What I want to know is, between all the extramari­
tal affairs, murders, and M!#.M&MtiMMil@\Wiilli&i{~illegitimate children, who has dWi!ilOOW!lllilllill!ll!li@',Wi.~~~ time to buy the furniture Margaret Fosmoe 
polish? In all my years ofex­
asperatt·d channel-flipping 
during daytime television, I 
have never seen a character 
wash a dish, vacuum a carpet 
-or watch television. (Maybe they're smarter than we think). 
And why is it that no one in Soapland ha Is an ordinary name likeJoe 
or Mary? Instead, everyone is "Justin," "Sky," "Lance," or "Ashley." 
Compare these folks with the characters in the commercials they've 
sandwiched in between. The results boggle the mind. Picture anAl­
thea soaking her hands in Madge's bowl ofPalmolive. Hard? Then try 
Raven, sponge and can in hand, mouthing the Lysol jingle. A few just 
can't be done. Somehow I could never imagine Tiffany suffering a 
nervous breakdown after being told the whitener had been taken 
out ofher Final Touch. 
Recently, the soaps have set their goals toward attracting teen­agers. (They have overwhelmingly succeeded, judging from the SRO audience in any lounge on every college campus in the nation.) In doing this, the producers have substantially reduced the age-range oftheir characters so that anyone beyond the ripe old age of, say 30, is likely to be viewed as an antique. And the really ancient ones, like fatherly chief-of-staff Dr. Steve Hardy on ABC's "General Hospital" have been declared "the old and the senseless" and sent shuffling off the the darker corners ofthe hospital. Aside from a few token "Geritol" and"Polident" lines, the oldercharacters have been largely pushed aside in favor of the Luke-and-Laura types. 
I read recently that NewJersey's Monmouth College actually of­
fers a three-credit course titles "Psychology of the Soap Opera." I 
think that's great. Now, if Notre Dame and Saint Mary's would only 
take the cue, the students could stop planning their classes around 
"All My Children," and "Search for Tomorrow." Instead, the soap 
operas would be their classes. After all, in years to come, won't the 
administrators feel a twinge ofguilt that this next generation ofdoc­
tors orators and statesmen can not answer the burning questions of 
our ~ime : Will Ross clear Carrie of the murder of Diane? Will Erica succeed in taking Brandon away from Sarah and Pamela? Will Nola's fate turn out to be like that ofpoor Rosa's? Will Katrina ever discover the truth about jennie's baby? Will Greg turn his back on jenny and fulfill his mother's wish that he attend Purdue (ofall places)? 
Besides, as students, I think we owe it to ourselves to relax a little and enjoy things. At'ter all, as our parcnts arc so prone to pointing out, these college days are the best "days ofour lives." 
syourroomt e worst? 
W 
ith room picks and next ycar to think ~bout, the Observer Features Department is working to find 
The Five Worst Donn Rooms on Campus. 
Ifyou think your room can be put in this distinguished classification, submit a statement ( 2'i words or less) tclung your room location and why you think it should be in a class by itself. Send before midnight Wed­
nesday, Fcb. 10 to: Observer: Worst Room 
P.O. Box Q Campus mail 




~~()fitS=l~l~t:~i=~~S========~======================IT=id=a=y,=F=eb~ru=ruy==5='=19=8=2==p=a=~===to
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
Tickets for awayNotre Dame basketball games against Seton Hall and Michigan are available at the second floor ticket office in the ACC. The Seton Hall game will be held on Thursday, February 18 at the Meadowlands Arena in East Rutherford, N.J. Tickets for the Michigan game, to be held at the Silverdome in Pontiac, Mich., on Sunday, March 7, are priced at S4, $6 and SB. -The Observer 
The StudentUnioncontinues to sponsor ski trips to 
Swiss Valley every Saturday night during the winter months. Busses 
depart from the Main Circle at 5 p.m. and return at 11 p.m. Bus 
tickets can be purchased in advance from the Student Union for 
$2.50, or on the bus itselffor $3.00. Also, discounted lift tickets and 
ski rental are available -The Observer 
Cross-country ski rental is available weekends to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. For details, call 239-5100. ­
The Observer 

ND Rugby Club will ho t ld an organizational meeting tonight at 7:00 in the LaFortune ballroom. Call Nick Colarecci at 
289-3022 ifyou can not 77 72 .a2)a Finally, those who missed the ski rental list can fill that out at the S.U. office. If you have any questions or problems please call Kevin a:t 239·7605 or I 798. -The Observer 
Track meet field events start at 6:3op.m. tonight at the 
A.C.C. -The Observer 

Owens,Knight lead Pacers over Nuggets 
INDIANAPOUS (AP) -The In­diana Pacers, sparked by Tom Owens and Billy Knight with 19 points apiece, put eight players in double figures yesterday night and recorded the highest point total in two years with a 131-114 National Basketball Association victory over the Denver Nuggets. 
Jerry Sichting, a third-year reserve 
out of Purdue, added a career-high 
16 points as the Pacers snapped a 
three-game losing stringand won for 
only the fifth time in their last 21 
games. 
Sichting and Knight each had eight points in the first quarter as In­diana jumped ahead 37-31. Then 6­foot-11 rookie Herb Williams and 6-10 Clemon Johnson took over in the second period as the Pacers steadilywidened the lead to as many 
as 18 points. 
After consecutive baskets by Sichting and Knight gave the Pacers a 48-37 lead early in the second quarter, Denver never came closer than .eight points the rest o{ the game. 

An 8-1 Indiana burst, including three baskets by Williams and one by Johnson, pushed the lead to 56­41 midway through the second period. The Pacers twice stretched the lead to 18 points before a pair of free throws and basket by the Nug­gets' Dan Issei cut the margin to 14 points at halftime. 
The Pacers, who shot 59 percent from the field in the first half, cooled off in the third period, and a basket and then two free throws by Alex English pulled Denver within 10 points. Indiana built the lead back to 16 points, saw it dwindle again to 10 points early in the final period, then olew the game open with a 12-2 burst in the next three minutes. 
The Pacers' biggest lead was 21 points, 123-102, with four minutes togo. 
Johnny Davis finished with 15 

points, Don Buse, 14 Johnson 12, Louis Orr 11 and Williams 10 for the Pacers. The Nuggets were led by Kiki Vandeweghe with 27 points, David Thompson with 20, English with 18 and Issei with 16. 

NBA  
Eastern Conference  
Atlantic Dlvlalon  
W  L  Pet.  GB  
Boston  33  11  .750  
Pholadelphia  31  14  .689  2.5  
Washington  22  22  .500  11  
New Jersey  21  24  .467  12.5  
New York  21  25  .457  13  
Central Division  
Milwaukee  30  14  .662  
Atlanta  19  24  .442  10.5  
Indiana  20  26  .435  11  
Detroit  19  26  .422  11.5  
Chicago  18  27  .400  12.5  
Cleveland  10  34  .227  20  
Western Conference  
Midwest Dlvlalon  
W  L  Pet.  GB  
San Antonio  30  14  .662  
Denver  24  21  .533  6.5  
HoUS1on  22  22  .500  7.5  
Utah  14  29  .326  15  
Kansas City  14  31  .311  16  
Dallas  13  31  .295  16.5  
Pacific Dlvlalon  
Seattle  30  13  698  
Los Angeles  31  14  .689  
Golden State  25  18  .581  5  
Phoenix  24  19  .558  6  
Portland  24  19  558  6  
San Diego  14  31  .311  17'  
Yesterday' a R"ulta  
Indiana 131, Denver 114  
San Antonio 118, Phoenox 112  
Only games scheduled  

,------------------------------------~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~----------------------------~ 
The Observer will accept classtfieds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Howeve. classifieds to appear 1n the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All classtfieds must be prepaid. 
either 1n person or through the mail. 



Classifieds 
NOTICES 
SHOW YOUR LADY YOU CARE WITH A BOUQUET OF FLOWERS DELIVERED EVERY WEDNESDAY FOR 4 WEEKS. WEDNESDAY'S FLOWERS. 289-1211. VALENTINES DAY IS CLOSE BY. 
SAVE MONEY ON USED BOOKS AT PANDORA'S. 3&0 OFF USED BOOKS IN THE STORE DURING HAPPY HOUR EACH FRIDAY FROM 3-6. USED BOOKS ARE 5&0 OFF AND NEW BOOKS ARE 2&o OFF. OPEN WEEK· DAYS 11-6, WEEKENDS 10-5. PAN· DORA'S BOOKS. 937 SOUTH BEND AVENUE, 233-2342. 
...................... OVERSEAS JOBS--Summer/year round. Europe, S. Amer.. Australia, Asia. All fields. $50()-$1200 monthly. Sightsee­ing. Free onfo. Write IJC, Box 52-IN4, Corona Del Mar. CA 92625. 
LAOTIAN LADY WANTS PART TIME CLEANING. CARE OF CHILDREN OR DISABLED. CAN TAKE BUS. EX· PERIENCED. 289·1687. 
BLACK CULTURAL ARTS FESTIVAL 1982 ·cuLTURAL DIMENSIONS' FEBRUARY 7 • MARCH 6 LERONE BENNETI. JR. SENIOR EDITOR EBONY MAGAZINE ··THE SHAPING OF BLACK AMERICA" 7P.M. FEB 7 LIBRARY AUDITORIUM ··AND YOU THOUGHT ALL WE COULD DO 
WAS DANCE" POET16 MUSICAL 7P.M. FEB 10 ANNENBERG AUDITORIUM POETESS SONIA SANCHEZ DRAMATIC READING AND DIALOGUE 7P.M. FEB 11 LIBRARY AUDITORIUM BCAF 1982 WITH MORE TO COME CHECK IT OUTIII 
Democratic Socialists meeting 7:30 Sun· day in Rm. 600 library 
Monica, 
ILOST/FOUND I 
Lost: women's Sieko quartz watch lost be­tween Madeleva and Regina. Call Jodi 4714SMC 
LOST: DARK BLUE AMITY · BEACW WALLET ON MONDAY THE 25TH SOMEWHERE BETWEEN HAYS­HEALY AND THE ACC. MANY IMPOR· TANT IRREPLACEABLES INSIDE. IF FOUND, PLEASE CONTACT JIM AT x1523. HELPI 
LOST--Red Prayer Book ··christian Prayer-Liturgy of the Hours" In Sacred Heart, Sat Nrte 1/30. If found Please call Al,1384. 
Lost: Gold Celtic (lrlah) crou, probab­ly at SMC, much eaentlmental velue. Pie... cell Eileen at 211+4602. REWARDIll 
LOST: pair of brown. plastic-framed glasses,posslbly in brown slip-in case wrth broken pocket clip. If found, please bring to lost and found in Admin or call 1229. 
I····· 
Found, Raoncoat recent Off-Campus party, Call289-1138to odentofy. 
LOST: A PAIR OF BLUE MIRRORED NEW WAVE SUNGLASSES IN NORTH DINING HALL. CONTACT JASON 8659 
FOUND: Expensive ball-point pen. Describe it and tell me where you lost it---­it's yourslllll Phone 272-7282. 
LOST: 3 KEYS ON GREEN PLASTIC 
KEYCHAIN. CALL RON 8270. 
................................................... 
FOUND: ONE ROUND BASKETBALL. IT 
WAS FOUND IN THE ACC PIT TUES­
DAY NIGHT AROUND 9 PM. CLAIM AT 
THE OBSERVER OFFiCE. ASK FOR 
DIANE OR WHOMEVER. 
LOST: a THERMODYNAMICS book in Eng. Building on Tuesday. If found, please cat II Mike at 8657. 
LOST: Brown tweed wool scarf at NO­Maine basketball game on section 1 08 of the bleachers. If found please call Ross at 1698. 
.__I_w_A_NT_Eo~l 
WANTED: 1 housemate tor 6 bedroom house. 717 St. Louos Ave. Call232-3237. 
Need nde to Cincinnati Feb. 12·14. Call Casey at 6256. 
Need 1 DEPAUL GA. will give up my stud. tix for N.C.St.Fordham and N.lowa. Tony 
239-6328(before 5) 277-3067(after 5) 
NEED RIDE TO DETROIT FOR WEEKEND OF 2/12·14. CALL RUSS AT 
3373. 
FOR SALE 
USED & OUT-PRINT BOOKS bought sold, searched. ERASMUS BOOKS. Tues-Sunday; 12-6.1027E. Wayne(One block south of Eddy-Jefferson intersec­toon.) ' 
Portable Cassette Deck. PIONEER SK­31. $200, PH·1407. 
FOR RENT 
FURNISHED HOMES CLOSE TO NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR. 277-3604. 
FURNISHED HOME AVAILABLE NOW. 277·3604. . 
efficiency apt,pr1vate enterance 1 oomo.close to n.d. also 3 bed house 1 1/2 bath call 2558505 
Notre Dame Ave Apts has apartments available for next school year Call 234­6647 
Four and five bedroom houses are available for next school year. Call 234· 9364. Nancy Humbarger. 
Summer Sublettors Wanted! 2 bdrm apt in Hickory Village. If inter-ested, call Carol or Michele at 272-9603. 

STUDENT RENTALS: 2 SIX BEDROOM HOUSES NEXT DOOR TQ EACH OTHER. FULLY CARPETED. FIREPLACE AND LOFT. CALL 272­7767, 232-4057, 272-2720. 
Summer and/or 82-83,4 bdrm hse,near campus,turn .. excel cond., call287-5361 after6p.m. 
I TICKETS 
WANTED:TWO NORTH CAROLINA STATE GA'S CALL X8738 
...... ................ NEED SIX GA·s FOR NC STATE. PLEASE CALL JENNY 284-4507 
URGENT need many N C STATE lix call 1730 
PERSONALS I
I 

SOCIAL CONCERNS FILII SERIES--­
january:16-Fe,....,ry!J 
SOCIAL CONCERNS FILM SERIES Dr. Strangelove February 1. 3, 4, and 5 Engoneering Auditorium 7 and 9:30p.m. .50 admission 
.............................................................. Dr. Strangelove February 1. 3. 4. and 5 Engineering Auditorium . 50 Admossion 7 and 9:30 p.m. SOCIAL CONCERNS FILM SERIES 
.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . WHO IS THE STUD OF 301 DILLON? 
WSND celebrates its 35th borthday on February 91 Losten for the upcoming BIRTHDAY BONANZA on AM-6411! 
How would YOU sound after 35 years??? Listen to the best rock plus news. sports. and campus events·-all on AM-64!!! 
The low lite. a cultural novelty .. 
You're 1 week from Hodden Hearts 21 Show up'fn costumes only. Who knows what may be revealed? 
HELLO TO ALL THE BEAUTIFUL WOMEN ON 3RD FLOOR REGINA SOUTH. WHEN ARE WE GOING TO PLAY SNOW FOOTBALL?? love. haze's brother 
SEE RONALD REAGAN (our fearless leader) IN BEDTIME FOR BONZO 
BEDTIME FOR BONZO-starrong RONALD REAGAN in yet another COM I· CAL ENVIRONMENLSEE IT THIS FRIDAY AND SATURDAY AT THE K OF C... 7,9,11 
UCLA SMOKER· WATCt:t '[)j(iGER.'S 
BOYS DO IT TO THE BRUINS THIS SUNDAY AT THE K ot C ... 
........................................................ . ATIN: ND-SMC FEMALES: Joe The Wild Hawaiian·· Chan os celebrating hos birthday today. Call him at 8604 to reserve a borthday lei and wish him a Hap­py Borthday. 
Tomorrow is Liz Ellery's 20th. Happy Birthday to our upstairs roomoe. Love. T1 and2 
········································· 
SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS APPLICATION DEADLINE Friday. February 5 Center tor Experiential Learning 
To anyone who cares: It's not the end. n·s tust intermission. To those who don't: 
You won't have Rich Coliis to kock around any more. (At least tor one semes· ter.) 
............................... Socialism has 9 lett~;~: .. ~~i ·j~~i ...7.:30 room 600 library 
................................................................ For run in the sack. call REEN REEN THE SEX MACHINE-x6969 (Now, who makes animal nooses in the back seat?) 
..................:.. IT'S THAT TIME AGAIN! Join Tim Neely Sunday night at 6 on WSND AM 64 for the Top 20 Time Tunnel and relive your rock 
n· roll past . This week, Tim will count down the top 20 songs for the week en­ding Feb. 6, 1971, featuring songs by El· ton John, Dawn, Perry Como (?!?), and 
17 others 
Demps, 

Happy birthday to the preppies! wench from Hinsdale. May the headbands of your life be pink and green. EntOY your 21st and re-member-only a short time remains for aquiring that diamond nng. 
Love. Mrs. David lntngue 
The Demps" We Love You! Happy 21stlll Your roomies 
One Week till Hulley returns -Are you ready Patty? I'll be back on. Sunday on plenty of time tor some antocs. Sorry though-you can't break my bed. 
ATTN: ALL ND/SMC GODDESSES: Don't miss your chance to stroke Tim 
Moose·· DiNapoli's beard (it's hos borthday). This os an old' Italian tradotoon. Drop by Anytime at 135 Stanford. You won't regret it. (also avaol. atthe salad bar, Fri.) 
······························································· 
PIP.(Thanx tor the tix) BUT do you !honk i really need lhem ,heck. woth all your ten­der charms All I have to do is hold you on my arms I w1sh I could see you more often than over fork and knife Cuz you are the most beautiful! thing in my hie I 
Today Nancy Walsh os 19. Happy Borthday to the best neoghbor ev-verl Love, T andT 
COME TO THE DUNKING BOOTH AT THE MARDI GRAS CARNIVAL THIS WEEKEND! ALL YOUR FAVORITE FOOTBALL PLAYERS. CHEER­LEADERS. CLASS OFFICERS AND GORGEOUS GIRLS WILL BE THERE WAITING TO TAKE THE PLUNGE! 
KIDNAPPED-6:30 
THANKS PANCAKE HOUSE GANG: KAREN (ROOMIE) SSTEVE, ELLEN MICH, BARB, ANN, BETSY, MAURA, JANE, SALLY, CAROL D. BETH, MARIANNE, CAROL C. 
FOR MAKING 22 SO GREATI I HOPE YOU ALL GOT A'S ON YOUR PLANT· MORPHI WANTED-for domestic abuse -JEFF BE­SCHER. Please turn this brutal cnminal in before others lose their noses. 
Janel, 

Where are you? Don't you ever eat in the dining hall anymore? It so when and where? How about that rather strange roommate-is she still in bed? Or where is 
Elaine or Tracy or Chris? I'm lost wothout 
your weekly abuse. Remember only two 
weeks till Wabash comes up -I think we 
better hode out now. 

A disliker of FIJI's 
BILL HENNESSEY-Your drum playon\1 made the showiThanks agaonl Elise, Ellen and Deidre.P.S. We owe you a pizza.xxx 
CARNIVALIII THIS WEEKEND!!! STEPAN CENTER!! I COME AND HAVE FUNIII THE NEW MARDI GRAS '82111 
IS THE SIXTH FLOOR GOINGG TO GET 
PLASTERED TONIGHTIII A PREMINI­
TION BY PARTY DAVE" 

......................................................... 
Jim Giblin: Whatever happened to the 
Rochester Survival Party? We 8os· 
tonians suffered through a Y.M.CA men­
tal ward and we want a party! We're 
getting anxious! 3 The Greyhound Keg 
Keepers 

KRB: 3 A.M. M T ASS IN THE PIT? OR SHOULD THE S BE AN H? HOW SACRELIGIOUSI THEW'S. 
··••···································•·····················• 
·POETS CLU3" HAPPY HOUR Friday at 
5:00 in Dillon Pub. Featunng mixed dronk speciaL All welcome. 
................................0&..................... . 
SUSAN H.-· This personal is Just to let you know I haven't forgotten that I promosed no more personals. ·zuKE" P.S.-What was that nockname again? I can hear the hogs stampeding ... 
Fran. Have a great 21stl We love you! Ter. Jean. Ev 
Observerites beware: Don't Jump out of any windows into yellow snow. 
Grapefruits ripen indoors .. . Rabbrts love my burrow.. . Pon Far pervades ... Torches burn out.. Emergency wondow estapes.. Raconoans break beds ... Penetrating peeps ... These cryptic comments are mere teasers... 
-No-Doz the Gossip 

WINDSURFING IS PRIMO!!! 
Lonely uttle boy desperately needs a male companoon. Call Volunteer Servoces.7308.tor more onto. 
M. lshaug. Hope your test and day went well. Your Phone Caller 
To our Favorite Guys: Jim, Broan. and Pete. The Grotto·s lor prayer It's a bad place to meet No matter what you do, You'll never top that, so don't even tryl signed Robin, Linda and Pall II 
RIGHT TO LIFE RETREAT February 5. 
7:00 p.m. to February 7. 1:00 p.m. Only $12--call Pam at x7947orJohn at x6804 Keri, 
There is not another gorl on sight, Who can hold me as tight Anhough we may fight, I love you with all my moght. For you woll always be, The right one for me. Love 
Stricken, Moke P.S. I MISS YOUI 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY. RACIN' JASON, WITH LOVE BEVERLEE. 
............................................................ 
PARTY TONITE Ill PARTY TONITE Ill AT GUISEPPE'S, 9 P.M. TIL 2 A.M. $2.00 AT THE DOOR. SPONSORED BY LEMANS HALL. TRANSPORTATION PROVIDED FROM LEMANS ON THE HOUR .. TO NO CIRCLE, THEN TO GUISEPPE'S. RETURN TRIPS ON THE HALF HOUR TIL 1 :30 .... CABIN FEVERIII!I 
Who will survove the Observer party? As a confirmed tee-totaler I want to help I hose wM over indulge. Despite my total lack of knowledge in these matters. I want to help you! Whether you likeotornot.lwill pour hot coffee down your throat. I will hold your hand while you convulse (unless you are male, in whoch case you can convulse in pnvate). I will throw your comatose form under a cold shower (unless once agaon you are male, on which case you wet yourself), finally for JUSt a small fee I will forget all the shameful stories about yourself you reveal whole still soused. I know it's a tough JOb but someone has to do it. Uncle Ryan the Purotan .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . 
N.D. girls! Come see Jim Kane tonally reach puberty---he·s goong to be twenty tomorrow! 321 Howard. 
Tomorrow Jimmy Kane turns 20. Call 8252 to wish him a happy one. A call from Jane Trusela would make this young Stud·s day GREAT! 
Hey Secret Sos, 

I haven't forgot you. Thanks tor the goodies and notes. The weekend is here, can I buy you a Mich? tom in 913 
To the Teddy Bear who lives in the Bass­men! of Pangborn: Thanx for beong there! The Shy, Silent Type. P.S. Good Teddy Bears are hard to come by, but they make good listeners. Ouoet as a Siren, You Say???? 
Dear Anonymous Leher-wrrter. /I'm confused. Please odentofy yourself. Pat from Keenan 
AL HANK BEUEVES IN REAUSTIC GOALS, COOPERATION NOT AN­TAGONISTIC RHETORIC, AL HANK FOR STUDENT SENATE, NORTH QUAD DIST.2, VOTE FEB. 8 
HELP!CALL 1-202·224-3121 (U.S. CONGRESS) ASK FOR YOUR CONGRESSMAN'S OFFICE BY NAME TELL HIM TO VOTE FOR STUDDS· HARKIN AMENDMENT ELIMINATING MILITARY AID TO EL SALVADOR 
PARTY PAUL, WHERE WERE YOU WHEN THE HUMP WAS AT HAND? QUES. 2: WHERE WILL THE HUMP UVE NEXT WED. NITE? QUES. 3: WILL YANK DO IT? (AUAS HANK ALAKOWSKI) 
JAMIE K., YOU'RE MORE FUN THAN HUMANS SHOULD BE ALLOWED, 
We graciously thank you for your onces­sant maunderong ... tor your doshonest euchre playing (yes. you, T.H.). 

The Observer-Sports Friday, February 5, 1982 -page 11 

Williams establishing him.self as All-Star 
SEATTLE (AP)-Gus Williams of ern California product, by way of Mt. the Seattle SuperSonics is quietly es­Vernon, N.Y., entered Wednesday tablishing himself as a household night's game between the Sonics and word in the National Basketball As­Kansas City ranked among the Top 
sociation. I 0 in the NBA in three separate After holding out an entire season, categories. he securdd a five-year, multi-million He ranked seventh in scoring with 
dollar contract from Sonics' owner a 24.0 .average, fifth in steals with a Sam Schulman. Now, he's proving 2.3 average and ninth in assists with he's worth every cent -and maybe a 6.9 average. 
more -that Schulman is paying The Sonics, who finished last in him. the NBA's Pacific Division with a 34­
Seattle's talented guard is among 48 record last season, were off to a the NBA's leaders in scoring, steals 29-13 start, only one game behind and assists and the Sonics arc big Los Angeles. winners again. Williams is playing in his sixth 
"Gus," said Seattle Coach lenny NBA season and his fourth in Seattle. Wilkens, "is playing great. But that's He spent his first two seasons with nothing new. We always felt he was a Golden State and then signed as a great player." free agent with the Sonics. 
Wilkens, who has spent 22 of his To acquire Williams, who 44 years as a player, player-coach averaged 11.7 and 9.3 points in his and coach in the NBA, is not prone two years with Golden State, Seattle 
to making overstatements. So his gave the Warriors a second-round praise of Williams is considered sin­draft choice. 
The Notre Dame hockey team willfact: the Lake Sunday afternoon. See Mike Olinek's story on 
cere. In his first three seasons with the 
Superior State Soo Lakers this Saturday night and page 12. (Photo by Rachel Blount) "In the past," Wilkens said, "Gus Sonics, Williams had scoring 
definitely has been underrated. averages of 18.1, 19.2 and 22.1. In Well, he's finally getting some his second Seattle year, 1978-79, the recognition this season." Sonics won the franchise's only NBA
Third-year man At East Rutherford, N.j., last Sun­championship. day, Williams played in his first NBA Williams thinks his recognition All-Star game and had a game-high this season Is connected with hisGeoffHudsonkeeps Cavs alive 
22 points and nine assists. highly publicized holdout last The East beat the West 120-1 18 season. His new five-year contractCLEVELAND (AP) The Despite Huston's recent heroics owner Ted Stepien -center James and Boston's Larry Bird was voted with the Sonics reportedly pays him
Clevdand Cavaliers spent millions and a two-game winning streak, Edwards ( 5700,000 a year), guard the game's Most Valuable Player. 
S700,000 per season.

of dollars acquiring free agents, yet Cleveland is still struggling with the Bobby Wilkerson ( $350,000) and "I guess," Wilkens said with a 
it's a little-known guard who's help­NBA's worst record at 10-34. forward Scott Wedman ( 5700,000) chuckle, "Gus showed he could ing the team salvage some respect in The 27-assist show was the third­-only Wedman could be con­
compete with the best in the 
a dismal season. best in league history. Kevin Porter sidered quick. But he's been injured league." 
Buy

Geoff Huston playing for his third had 29 in a game for New Jersey in most of the season, returning to full There are some who believe that 
National Basketball Association 1978, and Bob Cousy of the Boston steam shortly before last week's All­Williams, at 28, is the best guard In 
team in as many years, has averaged Celtics and Guy Rodgers of the San Star break. professional basketball. 
18.5 assists and I7.3 points in the Francisco Warriors both had 28. Huston said his impressive totals "It's nice to get recognized," he Observer last four games -three of them "My feeling when I came here was in recent games have come partly said. "When someone says he thinks Cavalier victories. that Geoff was not starting and because ofWedman's return. you're the best, it's flattering. But Classifieds
He dished out 27 assists as playing long enough," said Cavaliers "Wedman is a good ballplayer," those are just opinions." Cleveland beat G_olden State last Coach Chuck Daly, who loves the Huston said. "He adds a dimension The 6-foo-2 University of South-week, and another 20 in a victory fast break, recognized that the 2 3· to our team because he's a good over Indiana on Wednesday, boost­year-old was one of few Cavaliers shooter and plays good defense." Ing his season average to 7.6 assists with much speed. Daly said he likes Huston because per game. Of the free agents acquired by the guard thinks like the coach. 
"The kid is running the game, and 
MASS 
we think alike in the plays that we look to run," said Daly, who is 6-20 
followed by
since leaving as a Philadelphia 76ers
.. . Ladies 
assistant to take the reins in 


supper
Cleveland. "The interesting thing is only once bet<>re. Last season at the that he is half point guard and half
continuedfrom paRe 16 

ACC. Miami shot 62 percent from (shooting) guard. When a play 

every
trip to Florida ( wher·~ they split four the floor, and coasted to a 40-point breaks down ... he can get to the bas­games against Cal State-Pen, Austin win over the outmanned Irish, 93-ket, which is leading to more assists. 
Pcay, East Carolina and Florida 53. In that game, livingston led all "The people who have those FRIDAY 
State) she's added quite a dimension Redskin scorers with I 7 points, abilities -(Nate) Archibald, (Norm) 
to their team. while Meyer added 15. Nixon, Magic Oohnson) -are hot at the 
"Without her," Mary D adds, Jenny Klauke's 14 points led Note commodities in this league." "they'll shoot from the outside and Dame. "I'm not getting carried away," try to penetrate. With her, they'll try IRISH ITEMS--In addition to its 
Daly said. "But it feels good to go in­to force it in. Shari ( Matvey) and nation-leading defensive average, to the locker room with games like 
Carrie (Bates) are going to have Notre Dame is among the top 1 5 in this." their hands full." other categories: field goal percent­Huston, a 6-foot-2 left-handed Thus far this season, Miami has 
age defense (third), scoring margin guard from Texas Tech, was a third­demonstrated a preference for a fast­
( I Oth ), field goal percentage offense round draft pick of the New York paced transition game, something ( 12th), and rebounding margin Knicks in 1979. He went to Dallas in DiStanislao doesn't want her team to ( 13th) ......Forward Ruth Kaiser is the 1980 expansion draft, then was get involved in. 
questionable for tonight's game. traded to the Cavs last season. 
"We're going to have to keep it a Kaiser has tendonitis in her ankk, He attended Canarsie High School half-court game," she says. "We have and her status is a day-to-day in New York City, which also 
to force them into the offence, not let them come down and shoot the ball. We'll have to stop Meyers from penetrating." 
The Rc:dskins, who arc coming off a 12-point loss to Ohio State, average nt:arly 77 points per game as a team. Tht·y give up 71, however, (jUi~e a bit more than Notrt· Dame's 48.4 st•ason average. 
Notre Dame and :vliami have met 
... leers 
nmtinuedfrompage 16 

draMk· on:urs, :vlcNamara will be ht·twt·en tht· pipes for Smith this weekt·nd. while Laurion will have tht· opportunity to enjoy a rest and put thin~~ hack togcthl'f. 
With thi~ matchup of two teams with idt·ntit·allc:aguc: record!> and vi· ~ions of home ice, comes a need for the excclknt support demonstrated two wn·k~ ago agamst Bowling (irt-.:n. Su. h.n·p Sawrday·~ '?:-'0 facc­olf anu Sundar's .2:00 !>tart in mind, a~ tit·kct~ wiil he availahk at tht· 
hockl·y window hdorc c:ad1 con· 
ll''l. 

produced Golden State guard lloyd
proposition according to D!Stanis­
(All-World) Free.
lao. 



VOCATION RE·I REAT 

to help you consider the priesthood in the Congregation of Holy Cross 
[Q)~lJ~ Friday, February 26 to Saturday, February 27 7:GO p.m . 1 2 :GO p.m . ~~~(E Moreau Seminary 
~~@~~by calling the Vocation Office no cost 239-6385 
-· -­
The Observer -Sports Friday, February 5, 1982 -page 12 

Carlton Fisk (left) and Tom Paciorek were among the White Sox who "rode the caravan" to South Bendto encouragepeople to support the team this year in their bidfor the pennant. See Mike Ortman's story at right. (Photo courtesy the Chicago White Sox tmblicity department) 

THE NORTHEASTERN MBA 
Away to enrich your MBA experience! 
Those accepted into Northeastern's Two-Year Full-Time MBA 
Program are eligible to apply for a position as a Graduate 
Assistant. The Graduate Assistantship offers academic or 
administrative work experience, greater access to administra­
tion and faculty, and an opportunity to play a more active role in 
the educational process. Competition is keen-approximately 
40% of those enrolled in the Full-Time MBA Program are 
awarded an Assistantship. Assignments are usually within the 
College of Business or elsewhere in the University in an adminis­
trative, teaching, research or tutorial capacity. The assistant­
ships are ten to twenty hou~er-week appointmentS, which 
provide all assistantship participants with tuition remission for 
courses taken. For the twenty hour assistantship, a stipend 
currently of $4,500 per academic year, is also awarded. 
Full-Time Program begins in September-Application 
deadline is May 1st . 

Deadline for Assistantship Program application is 
April 15th. 

For oomplete information on the Northeastern Full-Time and Assistant­ship MBA programs as well as other Intern and Part-Time MBA pro­grams, call (617) 437-2719 or use the coupon below. 
Graduate School of Business Administration Northeastern University Q 360 Huntington Avenue, Boston, MA 02115 Ple!ISe send information on the Graduate Assistantship Program and other No(theastern MBA programs. 
Name______________________________________________ 
Address•--------------------------------------------­
City/State___________________________________________ 
School_______________________ interested in Starting Sept. of __ Year 

~/ Northeastern University 
....... IN BOSTON 
L-------~----------------J 
Baseball starting 




White Soxcaravan to South Bend 
By MICHAEL ORTMAN 
Sports Writer 

The big leagers came down from the big city this week. The Chicago White Sox reminded South Bend that in spite of all the wintry weather, it's not too early to start talking baseball. 
This was the 16th stop on a two­week, 20-city swing intended to stir up interest and support for the Sox throughout northern Indiana and Il­linois. Wednesday evening, a group of players and administrators met with the press and the then public at a smoker at the Knights ofColumbus Hall, south of campus on N. Michi­gan Ave. 
Manager Tony La Russa has made every stop over the last two weeks. Joining him last week in Illinois were newly aquired outfielder Steve Kemp, pitcher Dennis Lamp, first baseman Mike Squires and former major leaguer and new Sox broad­caster Ken "Hawk" H;u:relson. 
This week's tour of Indiana in­cluded even bigger-name stars Greg "Bull" Luzinski, newly-aquired Tom Paciorek and catcher Carlton "Pudge" Fisk. Also with the traveling party was Notre Dame graduate Ken Valdiserri ('80), now the team's as­sistant public relations director. 
The winter caravans have become 
quite popular among major league 
teams in recent years. In fact, this 
part of the country gets more than 
its share, as the White Sox, Cubs and 
Detroit Tigers' caravans all crossed 
paths this week in southern Michi­
gan. 

Luzinski, Fisk and Paciorek have 
starred on eight different teams be­
tween them over the last 10 seasons. 
After visiting with Sox faithful 
recently, their opinions of Midwest 
baseball fans are quite similar ­
they know their baseball. 

"People around here ask much more intelligent questions than they do in the South or the Northwest," said Paciorek, an accomplished mimic and fun conversationalist. The 35-year-old first baseman­outfieder began his career in Los An­geles in 1970, and played in Atlanta and Seattle before being traded to the Sox seven weeks ago. "Where do you like to hit your home runs?" he mimicked. 
Fisk continued agreeingly: "Over da fence." "People know who you are 
around here," Paciorek added. "That's the thing that amazes me. When I was in Seattle, nobody knew who I was. They could care less. And it was worse in Atlanta. I think Hank Aaron could walk right down the middle of Peach Street in Atlanta, Georgia, and nobody would recognize him. 
"This is baseball country, and I think it's great to be able to play in a town where they live, eat and sleep baseball. I think the East and the Midwest have that kind of great baseball fan. In L.A. they just show up to be in Dodger Stadium. They really didn't know what the hell they're doing there. It was the 'in' crowd-'The Team ofthe Stars.' Af­ter surfing all day they'd say, 'Hey, let's groove on down to Dodger Stadium.'" 
"It continually amazes me," said the 37-year old La Russa, who has been with his team longer than any manager in the American League West. (Since he took over the Sox in August, 1979, every other AL West team has undergone a managerial change.) "I guess I'm just dumb that way for not realizing it sooner. At first I would waste time, stating the obvious. But Sox fans want the meat 
-'Are you going to hit Harold Baines against left-handed pitchers? Ifyou do, does that mean that Wayne Nordhagen's not going to be happy because he won't be getting playing time? What about (Mike) Squires Gold Glove, and you've got Paciorek . to play first?' Heck, the fans know more than the sportswriters.'' 
This winter caravan is part of an intensive marketing effort by White Sox management. After taking over the club from Bill Veeck a-year-and­a-half ago, Eddie Einhorn and Jerry Reinsdorf set out to bring a whole new look to the organization. They obtaind all-stars Fisk, Luszinski and Ron LeFlore (from Boston, Philadel­phia and Montreal, respectively) for last season, and this year have added Steve Kemp (Detroit) and Paciorek. The 1982 season will see new uni­forms and a renovated stadium. 
The oldest stadium in the majors, 72-year-old Comiskey Park now boasts a new full-color electronic scoreboard, renovated dugouts and 5,000 new seats. Luxury sky boxes will be constructed in time for the 1983 season. The facelift has been price tagged at three quarters of a million dollars. 
After yourlastexam, whattoughquestions will youstillbe facing? 

Wdon't have your answers. But we'll listen to your questions, 
share some of our own about who we want to become and where we want to journey. Fo·r anyone who has considered the path of priesthood, the Holy Cross Fathers' One· Year Candidate Program provides an opportunity to ask and explore the possibilities in community. 

Contact: Rev. Andre Leveille, C.S.C. Vocation Director Box 541 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

(219) 239-6385 
All the efforts seems to be on the verge of paying dividends. Season ticket salesfor the '82 season already have surpassed 4,000, a team record, as compared to I,800 for all of last year. Group sales are up significant­ly, and the team is shifting over to a new subscription television net­work. SportsVision, a creation ofEin­horn's, is pay TV, a rapidly growing concept in television sports. 
Channel 32 (WFLD) will televise 
over 40 games in '82, most of them 
scheduled prior to May 13, the star­
tup date for SportsVision (Channel 
60). (Channel 32 is available on 
South Bend's Indiana Cablevision as 
channel 13.) Subscription TV will 
limit the number of fans who can 
watch their team to those who pay 
for the service. But revenues will in­
crease sharply in the coming years. 
In essence, the fan will pay a per 
game fee to sit in his own living 
room and watch a Sox game. 

Spring training begins two weeks 
from today at the team's Sarasota 
Park, Fla., camp. The exibition 
schedule concludes April 3-4 with a 
home-and-home series with the 
northside Cubs. The intracity series 
proved a smashing success last year 
when the teams used it as a tuneup 
before the start of the second 
season. The Saturday game will be 
played at the Cubs' Wrigley Field, 
and Sunday they'll move south to 
Comiskey. 

The White Sox open Tuesday af­
ternoon, April6 at home against Bos­
ton. 

Editor's Note: Greg Luszinski, a 1968 graduate ofNotre Dame High School in Niles, Mich., is especially close to the University of Notre Dame and the Fighting Irish. Next week, The Observer willfeature the 30-year-old "Bull." 
McGinnis plays out his career 

INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -George McGinnis, rendered ineffective as a shooter by what he calls a "mental block," probably never again will be the dominating power forward he once was in the National Basketball Association. 
But the 31-year-old veteran, now a reserve with his hometown In­diana Pacers and winding down a once-brilliant career, still gets some satisfaction as a team player. 
"My statistics may be down, but 
I'm doing the little things that don't 
show up in the boxscore," says the 
still-powerfully built McGinnis, 
once feared both as an outside 
shooter and an inside muscleman. "I 
don't think I have anything to be 
ashamed of by the way I've played. 
I've been more team-oriented.'' 

McGinnis is averaging under five points and five rebounds a game and shooting a miserable 38 percent from the field and 45 percent from the foul line. 
McGinnis was academically 
ineligible to play on the Hoosier 
freshman squad in 1969-70, but the 
next year, as a sophomore, he led the 
Big Ten Conference in scoring and 
in rebounding. He departed the In­diana campus after that season and signed with the Pacers in the old American Basketball Association. 
In four years tin the ABA, McGinnis averaged nearly 25 points a game and helped the Pacers to two oftheir three league championships under former coach Bobby Leonard. In 1974-75, he led the ABA in scoring with a 29.8-point average, was third in assists, fifth in rebounds, second in steals and shared the Most Valuable Player award withJulius Er­ving, then ofthe New York Nets. 
~ 
L__ ___ _ 
~--~ ---~ ---·~--~-------­
~


...-----------~ 
... The Observer -Sports 
Assistant coach 

John Shumate returns to N.D. 

By CHRIS NEEDLES 
Sports Writer 
Ofall the so-called "post-war" up­

sets recorded by the Notre Dame 
basketball team, the defeat of UCLA 
on January 19, 1974, no doubt is the 
most famous. The 71·70 Irish vic­
tory broke the Bruins' legendary 88­
gamc winning streak. 
Of all the twists and turns and 

dramatic scenes that took place that 
day, none arc as well-remembered 
as John Shumate snaring the last 
UCLA missed shot and sending the 
basketball skyward in ecstasy. 
Well, why not? Ifanyone deserved 
the game ball that day, it wa.~ God. 
With Shumate a close second. 
Not surprisingly, Shumate 
remembers that game like it was his 
tlrst date. lie scored .24 points that 
day, effectively 

scort·d by Bruin all-everything cen­
ter Bill Walton. With the next chap­
ter in the epic ND-UCLA rivalry 
coming this Sunday, Shumate was in 
the mood for reminiscing. 
"No matter what else I ac­complish," smiles the former Irish all-America forward who has returned to his alma mater as an as· sistant coach, "that's the one game I'll always be remembered by. That whole week was like living in Hol­lywood, with all the media people and everything. 
"I got to the arena at about 9:30, and the place was packed. There was electricity in the air -it's a feeling you have to experience first hand. I remember I couldn't even shoot around before tht: gamt:, because I was shaking and sweating too much. 
"All I can rcmt:mber thinking," he 
continues, "was that 'Hert:'s this 
little ghetto boy playing on national 
TV in the big game."' 
Shumate's recall is tlawlcss, as he runs down tht: t:ntirc game in full dt•tail. How he helped his teammates relax bct(Jrc the game with another of his famous "I had a drt:am" spcccht:s, this one about a leprec­haun and a bruin tangling in a forest. !low the Irish were behind by 13 points with only 3:22 rt:!llaining. llow a livid Digger Phelps made t•vcry player admit during a timeout that they still believed they could win. 
And, finally, how the Irish won. It wa.~ Dwight Clay's corner jum­pt·r with 29 st:conds left that sealed 
Reds trade Foster to N.Y.Mets 
CINCINNATI (AP)-The Cincin­nati Reds said yestersday that they had agreed in principle to trade slug­ger George Foster to the New York Mets. 
The Reds gave the Mets permis­sion to negotiate a contract with the left Helder, who hasn't come to terms wih Cincinnati. Foster's con~ tract expires at tht· end of the 1982 season. 
Foster listt·d tht: Mt·ts as a team he would accept in a trade. The 33· year-old power hitter can veto an deal. 
Reds President Dick Wagner indi­cated that the two teams had agreed on the players involved in the proposed trade, although they were not rt·vcaled. 
The trade depends on the Mets signing Foster, who reportcdy sought a multi-year contract of $1 million annually in salary from the Reds in addition to a loan. Foster said repeatedly last season that he wanted to be among the highest­paid players in the game. 
The Associated Press learned that the Mcts have agreed to send three players to the Reds -a catcher, a pitcher and an infielder. Mets catcher Alex Trevino has been men­tioned in newspaper reports as one of tht: players that the Reds wanted to acquire. 
the upset. But forgive Shumate if he is a little foggy on the details. After grabbing the final rebound at the buzzer, he was crushed by a sea of jubulant fans, and passed out at the bottom ofthe pile. 
"I was face-down on the ground," says Shumate, "with my nose pressed into the floor. My uncle had grabbed my arm right before I went down, and he pulled mt: up. They had to give me smelling salts in the locker room to wake me up. 
"It was the moment I'll remember 
the rest of my life." 

Shumate went on t to play seven seasons in the NBA for five different teams and 19 different coaches, and averaged I I points and seven rebounds a game. But he was forced to retire last season because of damaged veins in his leg. 
"Nobody is sure what really is wrong," Shumate says. "All I know is that the vein deep in the leg is damaged, and that the constant pounding ofbasketball was a hazard. It was sort of a combination of a blood dot and phlebitis." 
Retirement can be an ugly scene for many retired athletes, but for Shumate, there was no question in his mind where to go for help. Well, where docs every other Notre Dame student go when they are job­hunting? 
"I asked the Placement Bureau if they had anything available," Shumate says, "and, luckily, they did. 
"Basically, I aid the other coun­selors over there, and assist in the placement of minority and interna­tional students. Since I was in their position when I was a student, I can realize how lonely it gets and how hard it is to be a minority student on this campus." 
As his playing career neared an end, Shumate begin thinking seriously about becoming a coach. In fact, he was offered the head coaching job at a junior college in Scottsdale, Ariz. When Digger Phelps heard that one of his star pupils was interested in coaching, 
he extended his own offer. 
Since Phelps already had two full­

time assistants, including Shumate's 
former teammate Gary Brokaw, he 
could only offer Shumate a position 
as a volunteer assistant. No money 
involved; just an opportunity to get 
his feet wet in the business. Shumate 
pounced on the chance. 
"I realize that if! want to be a head 
coach someday," he says, "I have to 
start at the bottom, and move up in 
steps. I think some of my best at· 
tributes can be best used in coach­
ing -I'm good around people and 
can deal with athletes well." 
As one would expect, the 6-9 
Shumate works mostly with the Irish 
front line players. "A big guy to teach 
a big guy," says Shumate. 
"All these guys have great poten­
tial," he adds. "All they need is 
someone to give them guidance and 
contldcnce in their own abilities. 

"Take Timmy Andree. Here's a 
guy who's got a lot ofenergy and en­
thusiasm in him, and he just needs 
somebody to poim him in the right 
direction. I think before he 
graduates that he'll be a force among 
big men in college basketball." 
John Shumate certainly would recognize talent when he sees it. He averaged 23 points a game in his col­lege career, and currently stands ninth on the all-time Irish scoring list with 1334 points, even though illness forced him to play only two seasons. 
Enthusiasm? Shumate would know about that, too. To hear him talk, or rather gush, is like listening to a little boy talk about his first day ofschool. 
He has seen the best and worst that this country has to offer. He grew up in the slums ofNewark, N.j., and played pro ball in Phoeni~. Buf­falo, Detroit, Houston and San An­tonio. Yet when it came to choosing a place to settle down after retiring, Shumate, his wife Marilyn and six­month-old daughter Brittany could think of only one place -Notre Dame. 
"I couldn't get back fast enough," he says. 

Friday, February 5, 1982 -page 1.:> " 
Tim Andree and the Fighting Irish willface the Bruins ofUCLA to avenge their embarassing defeat last December this Sunday at 2 p.m. See Skip Desjardin's column on page 12. (Photo by Cheryl 
Ertelt) 

LR~~~L~U~TRY~K~RE~T~l 

< 
f~ll~I\IEIJ BY (jU~IJEIJ T~UR~ ~-~lR~U(jH ~~lURE TR~~l~ 
******************************** 
S.fl.P.B. "H'-SI~mW SURPRmE WEEK" mGUER, BUT THE Sfcil(]~ !':lUST (j[] []r.i! REI':lEI':lBER:************************ SEicii~[jJf\ 1'2lfl~ SPE~ml SlciiUl~ []~~lcii~S T[]r.imHT! 

The Best TRAVEL SPECIALS Are Available on Campus! 
AIR FARE SPECIALS From Chicago To: 
TampaorW. Palm Beach From · $ 79.00 O.W. Miami-Ft. Lauderdale 
Orlando From· 99.00 o.w. San Francisco From· 109.00 o.w. Los Angeles From· 99.00 o.w. San Diego From· 119.00 O.W. Long Beach From· 129.00 o.w. Kansas City From· 59.00 O.W. Wichita From· 79.00 O.W. New York From· 159.00 R.T. Boston From· 188.00 R.T. St. Louis From· 59.00 o.w. Minneapolis From· 89.00 o.w. 
Fares are subject to availability, time and day of travel. Alr fares are subject to change at any time. Ticket purchase guarantees fare. 
AMTRAK SPECIALS 
Effective now thru April 1, 1982: Purchase a one way fare of $45.00 or more, get the return for only $10.00. Children V2 of adult fare. 
VACATION SPECIALS 
Bahamas  
Nassau-1 week  From  · $499.00 per person  
Freeport-1 week  double occupancy From· $387.00 per person  
double occupancy  
Caribbean  
Jamaica-St. Maarten-Aruba­ 
St. Kitts-Santo Domingo  From  · $429.00 per person  
double occupancy  
Mexico  
Acapulco-Cancun-Cozumei­ 
Mazatlan-Puerto Vallarta  From  · $459.00 per person  

double occupancy 

Includes: Round trip air fare from Chicago. hotel accommo­dations and airport transfers. 
t1'4Source
ST. MARY'S NOTRE DAME 284-5606 239·7080 
..:Travel 

r--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer -Sports Friday, February 5, 1982 -page 14 
At U.S.C.? 

Branning lives after basketball 

I 
,I 

..........................,'fl..l)& ......... I) -a-\• • ,,......................... 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIf ~ li~f.O.U. tlllllllllllllll.lllllllll 
..........................-...................................................................................,............. 
Swulluj. Fehluuvty 7............................. LERONE BENNETT Renowned author, poet, biographer, and Senior Editor of Ebony magaxine 1------------------Librar!l Auditorium 
Wetbcadaq. FebltiUliUJ ro.................POETIC MUSICAL: 
"And You Thought All We Could Do Was Dance" Presented by: The Black Liberated Arts Center, Inc. of Oklahoma City 
1-------------------AnnenberqAuditorium 
Tkllll3dmj. FPhtwJUJ 11 .........."............... SONIA SANCHEZ 

By DAVE DZIEDZIC 
Sports Writer 

LOS ANGELES -Rich Branning 
will be sitting on the visitor's bench 
at UCLA's Pauley Pavilion this 
weekend. He has sat on that bench 
four times in the past, all as a mem­
ber of the Notre Dame team basket­
ball squad. 

Tonight, however, Branning will 
be at Pauley Pavilion as a volunteer 
assistant coach for Southern Califor­
nia. If the Trojans upset the Bruins 
tonight, Branning will remain un­
defeated versus UCLA in Los An­geles. . Branning, along with classmate Bill Hanzlik, defeated the Bruins all four times that they played in Pauley Pavilion, including the 66-63 upset in 1976. That was the first non­league loss by the Bruins in their I 5 years of competition in Pauley, en­ding a 1 15-game streak. 
Four w~eks ago at the Los Angeles Sports Arena, the Trojans defeated the Bruins, 86-71. That makes Bran­ning 5-0 against UCLA in the City of the Angels. 
"I always got psyched to play in Pauley Pavilion," Branning explains. "Because I'm from this area (nearby Huntington Beach, Calif.), I have al­ways heard about the great Wooden teams. It's a great thrill to walk into Pauley and see all those NCAA cham­pionship banners hanging. Also, I al­ways had my family and friends in the stands at Pauley." 
Notre Dame has never won in Pauley Pavilion without RiCh Bran­ning. He ranks 14th on the Notre Dame all-time scoring list, having poured in 1,232 points in 114 games 
Branning has been very busy since graduating in 1980. He was selected in the fourth round ofthe NBA draft by the Indiana Pacers. He survived rookie camp, and then played for the Pacers' summer-league team. He played well at the veterans' camp, but was cut when the roster was trimmed to 16. 
Even though Branning didn't spend much time in professional basketball, he claims that the ex­perience was valuable. "It was a little different than I thought," he says. "Pro basketball is definitely a busi­ness. The key is to be at the right at the right time. "I'd be lying if I said that I didn't want to make the team," Branning continues. "But on the other hand, I realized what the situation was." 
The situation? What situation? 

"The NBA situation," he explains. 
"Ifa player is not drafted in the first 
or second rounds, he will have a 
tough time making the team. It's not 
enough to be as good as the other 
guys, he has to be better. At that 
level, the difffernce in individual 
play is very slim. 

"All of the top draft choices have 
big contracts. The teams don't let 
those guys go just because a lower 
draft choice happens to have a 
couple ofgood games." 

After his NBA experince was over, Branning was glad to have a Notre Dame degree in his hand. 
"I always figured that basketball would work itselfout," he says. "But education was always my most im­portant concern, and I'm sure glad that it was. 
"A lot of guys in the pro camp 
didn't have much to look forward to 
if they didn't make it in the NBA. 
They had no alternatives. I, 
however, knew that I had been ac­
cepted to graduate school and had 
other alternatives." 
Branning played a year of basket­ball with Athletes in Action, a Chris­tian service team that tours the country. Then he decided to enroll in graduate school at Southen Cal in order to earn a Masters Degree in Sports Administration. After enroll­ing, he took the job as an assistant to Head Coach Stan Morrison. 
Although he can not be paid for his work with the Trojans (because of certain NCAA rules), Branning is enjoying the experience. "I just want to help out," h~.: says. "I'm here to help the program in what ever way possible. The basketball program here is at a stage similar to the Notre Dame program ten years ago. Football is the main sport at USC, and Stan is struggling to get the basketball program over the hump. 
"The student body here is not geared toward basketball. That's be­cause in sports, as in any business, you need a successful product in or­der to sell it. Right now, Stan is trying to get a successful product." 
Morrison has nothing but praise for Branning. "Rich is a super in­diviual," he says. "He's a credit to the University of Notre Dame. He has an outstanding mind and he's extreme­ly thorough. You should be proud to have him representing your school. I know that we're overjoyed to have him here." 
Branning performs several roles for Morrison. He proctors the "study table" (for players with academic problems), he coaches on the floor, and he attends all the home games. 
"Basically, I see my role as being an intermediary between the coaches and the players," Branning says. "I try to help the guys on the little things that will improve their individual games." 
According to Morrison, Branning is the perfect graduate assistant. "The players respect Rich because of his success at Notre Dame," Mor­rison explains. "They all get along with him well." 
Even though Branning does not intend to continue in coaching, he l).as a good understanding ofthe cur­rent situation in college basketball. "College basketball is so well balanced," he says, "that you have to play 10 to 15 points better than the other team on the road in order to win. The home crowd advantage is very important these days. Here at USC, the students don't support the team a whole lot. I'm used to the crowds at the ACC supporting Notre Dame. Every time I went out on the court, I knew that our fans would be helping us out. We just don't get that here." 
Branning has some fond memories of the ACC crowds. "The best example I remember," he says, "is the Marquette game my sopho-
One of America's leading black poets. authors, and playwrights delivers dramatic readings and dialogue
~------=-=::....li!..:.:..c...--------Librar!l Auditorium 
• 




EASY RIDER
Satwuhuj. FehtwJUJ 20.....STU DENT TALENT SHOW 
Notre Dame Students perform 
1----7-~_.Ht_.------------l•brar!lAuditorium 
Swultuj. Febluuvuj 28........::.GOSPEL: DIMENSIONS OF SPIRIT" 
South Bend area churches perform 1----------------·· Librar!l Auditorium 
Solwulay. KltJJlclt s........u.FASHION SHOW /DANCE 
"On Stage" --Monogram Room, A.C.C. 

Ticket prices to be announced 
~·~------------------------------------------------------~ 

more year. The Warriors were the defending national champions and were ranked number-one in the na­tion. We trailed by 14 at the half When we came back out to start the second half, the place went wild. We liad a furious rally, and won the game by six. After the game, my ears were ringing from the noise." 
Branning thiQks that the 1977-78 team, which went to the Final Four of the NCAA tournament, was the best team he played on. "I felt strongly that we would win it all," he says. "We had a lot of talent. What hurt us the most was the fact that we had a week off before the semi-final round, and Duke was able to upset us." 
"Basketball is very high-powered now," he says. "It's not like when John Wooden was coaching at lTCLA. Tournament play is very tough. Any team that makes the tournament can knock off any other team." 
Branning sounds like Digger Phel t ps when he says, "The goal for a team to have is to win 20 games. Ifa 
team  does  that,  it  will  make  the  
tournament."  
When  talking  about  his  years  

spent under the Golden Dome, Branning is quick to mention Tom Hawkins, former Irish Basketball standout and current color com­mentator for Notre Dame games on the MetroSports television network. "Talking to Tom gave me a big in­sight as to what a Notre Dame ath­lete should represent," he says. "He was a great player and a successful sportscaster; he handles success very well. I admire his balance and level-headedness. 
"Tom realizes that Notre Dame helped him a lot. He is determined to give something back to the uni­versity. 
"The biggest thing I admire about Tom," Branning continues, is that, instead ofletting basketball use him, he's using basketball to propel him­self into other areas. That's exactly what I want to do." 
The "other areas" for Branning are sports management and cable televi­sion. "I have a few innovative ideas of my own as far as the business side of sports is concerned," he says. "l would like to someday own my own company, somewhat similar to a sports consulting firm. 
"I'm also looking into the prospect cable television," he con­tinues. "It is projected that cable television will have an enourmous impact on college sports in the next four or five years. I want to determine how the needs ofcollege sports can best be met by cable TV." 
The "key," as Branning sees it, to his success in the business world, is an idea he learned on his own. "I learned as an athlete what it means to delay gratification -to work at something for years and have it pay off in the end," he says. 
"It is necessary to sacrifice some things now in order to succeed in the future. When Idiscover what it is that I do best, I am confident that I will succeed because of these prin­ciples." 
Branning is one of those "total Notre Dame persons" that we so of­ten hear about but seldom meet. His friendly, receptive manner makt:s him a delightful person to talk to. His pride in Notre Dame is unending. By the end ofhis conversation with this reporter, Branning had all sorts of questions about life at Notre Dame. 
"I miss the people at Notre 
Dame," he unhesitatingly answers when asked what he misses about the university the most. "There's a unity on that campus that I've never encountered anywhere else." 
Certainly, the people at Notre Dame miss Branning also. He's espe­cially missed on weekends like this one, when the Irish need a win in Pauley Pavilion. 
Maybe if he can take some time otf on Sunday afternoon to drop by Pauley for a couple of hours, 
~~r.======================================= 
Friday, February 5, 1982 -page 15


Toda 
Simon 


ACROSS 1 Impudence 5 Kind of cap

The Daily Crossword 
10 Move a bit 14 Hawaiian ..,-:--r.-,......,r:-::-...,..,.'::""'"'""'1 thrush 
~-1---11-......._---115 Sun-dried brick 
~+--ll-+---l16-con· 

tendere --1---11-......_---1 17 Without a sou 19 Capital of Western Samoa 20-out (decide between) ,__-1----11--l21 Sieve 23 Lanky .,.,...-1---11-......._---1 25 Norway metropolis 
© 1982 Tribune Company Syndicate. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
26 Uncle Tom's habitat '29 Physicians* 
group: abbr. 32 Pita plant 35 Minuscule 
amount 36 Club meet· 
ing concern 38·Folding bed 39 Snippet 40 River of 
Africa 41 Climb, in a way 42 Conclusive: abbr. 43 Underground stem 44 Greek goddess 45 Indolence 
215/82 

G~rry Trudeau 



Campus 
Friday, Feb. 5 
•12:15. 
1:15 p.m.-Meeting, ND/SMC Italian Club, Faculty Dining Room, South Dining Hall, All Italian-speaking faculty welcome 

•4. 
5 p.m. -Tertulia, Spanish club, Basement of LaFortune, Venga para hablar con nosotros y prac· ticar el arte de conversar 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Inverses for Partial Dif­ferential Equations and Analyticity", Professor David Tartakoff, University of Illinois, Chicago Circle, 226 Computer Center/Math Building, Sponsored by Math Department 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Protein-bound Bile Pig­ments", Professor Henry Rapoport, 123 Nieuwland Science Hall, Sponsored by Reilly Lecture Series 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Jamesjoyce Paratactician: A Grammar of Insubordination", Professor David Hayman, University of Wisconsin, Galvin Life Science Auditorium, Sponsored by james Joyce Centenary Celebration 

•6:30 
p.m. -Track, Notre Dame vs. Marquette University, ACC 

•7, 
9, 11 p.m. -FUm, "Bedtime for Bonzo", Knights ofColumbus Hall, Sponsored by Knights of 


.... 
Columbus, S 1 admission 
•7, 
9:30p.m.-FUm, "Dr. Strangelove", Engineer­ing Auditorium, Sponsored by Social Concern~; Film Series, 50 admission 

•7 
p.m.-1 a.m. -Mardi Gras Carnival, Stepan· Center, Free admission, Games .25 

•7:30 
p.m. -FUm, "Investigation of a Citizen Above Suspicion", Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum ofArt, Sponsored by Department ofCom­munication and Theatre, $1 admission 

•s 
p.m. -Gymnastics Show, U.S. Professional 


Gymnastic Classic, ACC Saturday, Feb. 6 
•s 
a.m .. -5 p.m. -GRE Exam, Dr, Peter Grunde, Engineering Auditorium · 

•1 
p.m.. ;,:i a.m. -Mardi Gras Carnival, Stepan Center, Free Admission 

•1 
p.m. .::,._~ Gjrmnastics, Notre Dame/Saint Mary's College,AngelaAthletic Facility, Saint Mary's Col­lege 

•6:30 
p.m. -Midnight -Sweetheart Dance, Ladies of Notre Dame, Marriott Hotel 

•7:30 
p:m. -Hockey, Notre Dam~; vs. l.ake Supe­rior State, CCHA Game, ACC ·•7:30 p.m.·-' Basketball, Notre Dame Women vs. Miami (Ohio), Away 

•7:30 
p.m. -Swimming, Notre Dame Women vs. Saint Mary's. College vs. Kalamazoo College, At Saint Mary's Colkge 

•7:30 
p.m. -Swimming, Notre Dame Men vs. Toledo, Away 

• 
8 .p.m. -Dramatic Readings, From Dubliners and A Portrait ofthe Artist as a Young Man, Theatre Guild of thc Council , of Irish Arts, Chicago, Memorial Library Auditorium 

Sunday, Feb. 7 

• 
1 -4 p.m. -Exhibition, George Tisten, Notre Dame, One Man Exhibition, O'Shaughnessy Galleries 

•1 
-5 p.m. -Mardi Gras Carnival, Stephan Cen­ter 

•2 
p.m. -Hockey, Notre Dame vs. Lake Superior State, CCHA Game, ACC 

• 
2 p.m. -Basketball, Notre Dame vs. UCLA, Away 

•3 
p.m. -Concert, Barbara Geary, Artist-in­Residence, State Arts Council in Oklahoma, pianist, ()'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's Collegt·, Sponsored by Perfoming Arts Series, S4 adults, 52 students 

•4 
p.m. -Meeting, CILA, Memorial Library Lounge 

•7 
p.m. -Lecture, Lerone Bennett, Jr., Senior editor ofEbony magazine 


47 "-shy drop to drink" 
48 Customs 49 Facial · expression 
51 Out of reach 53 Holey 

utensil 57 Respiratory 
ailment 61 Entrance 62 Undecided 64-die 65 Halley's­66 Boy: Sp. 67 -·deep 

(profoundly 
occupied) 68 Theme 69 Depicted 
DOWN 1 "-Little 

Acre" 2 Mine: Fr. 3 Fine fabric 4 Old 5 Discussion 
group 6 Peculiar 7 Author 
Anita 8 Touch 9 -rocket 
10 Poky ones 11 Prodigy 12 Nastase 13 Guffaw 18 Author 

Paton 22 Ural locale 24 Shallow 
pond 
26 French novelist Albert 
27 Coral island 28 A place to sign .30-Park, 
N.J. 
31 Knitting yarn 33 River in 
France 34 Lab burners 36 Law 37 Oxford 
fellow 
41 Least desirable part 
43 Eschew 46 Perfectly 48 Livestock 
feed 50 Get from 52 Arbuckle 
of silents 53 Barrel 54 Norse god 55 Poetic form 56 Wheel parts 58 Beard stuff 59 UMWword 60 Lined up 63 Tchrs. org. 

Friday, February 5, 1982 -page 16 

S~orts 
Anotherviolation? 
Irish travel to Pauley for revenge 
LOS ANGELES -"It never rains in Southern Califor­
nia." ltpours. . just after UCLA dismantled Notre Dame on national 
TV last December, the NCAA put the team on probation for a number of"minor recruiting violations." 
"It's an unfortunate situation," said Caoch Larry Far­mer at the time. "We'll just have to go out and play each game as we always have. We may not be allowed to go to the NCAA tournament, but we still have a lot to extent of the cheating. prove." Even Farmer, who has bemoaned his fate as the coach 
Unfortunately ror Farmer, his squad, which just may who must pay for the past sins of others, has allegedly be the most talented in the nation, couldn't find that been as much a culprit as anyone else. The Times motivation. The Bruins were 0-3 in the PAC-10 at one reports that Farmer lived in an apartment supplied by a point, and come in to tonight's game with rival USC at a booster, possibly rent-free. less-than-stellar 12-5. While the program itself is in deep trouble, the team 
Ifthe probation, the losses and the general discontent has turned things around. After a 86-71 thrashing ·at the weren't enough, this week there was more. The LosAn­hands of USC on January 9, the Bruins went on a tear. geles Times reponed Monday that an investigation into and have won their last six straight. UCLA basketball revealed that the NCAA's ·findings Rod Foster, benched before the last Notre Dame were but the tip ofan iceberg that may prove to be one game, has returned to his starting spot, and is red hot. of the biggest scandals in basketball history. Darren Daye is seeing more action as well, as Farmer has 
The storm centers around Sam Gilbert, a UCLA boos­abandoned his early-season policy of relying on the ter. The Times reports that Gilbert, over the course of defense of Michael Holton and Stuart Gray. more than I 0 years, has broken any number of NCAA Michael Sanders is a legitimate All-American. He 
regulations. dominated the boards in the game at the ACC, and will 
Former players and coaches told The Times Gilbert more than likely put in a repeat performance Sunday. paid for abortions for players' girlfriends, provided dis­He has been the only stabilizer in UCLA's roller-coaster count or free cars, apartments, and other services, and season. bought tickets from players at incredibly inflated prices For their part, the Irish are primed for revenge. They as a means ofpassing on cash. were embarassed in December, but were admittedly 
But Gilbert is only part of the story. still sufferring growing pains. They've shown in their Notre Dame Women's Basketball Captain Missy Conboy came Every program has people on its fringe who are wil­last six games, four of those being wins, that they've offthe bench in the first halfoflast Saturday's Marquette game. ling to "do favors" for players, and are potentially very grown a great deal, as Digger Phelps promised they Comboy's inspired play led the Irish into the lead and defeated dangerous to the team and, ultimately, to the institu­would. them. The Irish travel to Mount Saintjoseph to play the Mounties tion. "We've got some momentum now," Phelps says. tonight and then go to Miami (Ohio) to take on the Redskins The problem at UCLA is that Gilbert, and others like "We:ve won lately because we've played well together. tomorrow. See Mark Hannuksela's story below. (Photo by Cheryl him, were allowed a free hand in dealing with the Playmg as a team is the key for us. We want this one Ertelt) · · 
..-. 
phtyers. badly, not just because of the way they handled us ear­
The coaches, whose job it should be to protect the lier, but because we think we still have a shot at an NIT players, were not only aware of the situation but were, bid." rortedly, deeply involved. As both teams enter the final third of their seasons.

Irishpreparingfor 
"Maybe I had tunnel vision," says john Wooden, the they have endured a great deal. For UCLA, that en­man that led UCLA to 10 national championships. durance looks like it will have to be long-lived. For "Maybe I trusted him too much." Notre Dame, there is a light at the end ofthe tunnel, and 
But former players, Lucius Allen and Kareem Abdul­Pauley Pavilion is but one more cavern through which
Mounties, Redskins 
labbar among them. think Wooden kn<:w full well the they must travel. By MARK HANNUKSEIA they are, so we're going to trv to Sports Writer pressure the ball up higfi and force 
them to go down low, where we can MOUNT ST. JOSEPH, Ohio -Af. take advantage ofour size." The Irish 

leers face-off against Soo Lakers 
ter nearly a week-long layoff, Notre and Mounties have met only once Dame's women's basketball team, previously. That was two seasons 
I 
the nation's scoring defense leader ago, when Notre Dame won 78-76 at By MICHAEL OLENIK defeat only once since the new year, rior will be either Lawrence Dyck or for the second week in a row. will the ACC. Sports Writer and that was a one-goal decision to seniorstandout Pat Ansell. The latter Ferris State last week. However, they has a 9-2-2 record and a :LB goals
return to action tonight in the first of Coach Pam Wettig's Miami With the CCHA playoff race promptly came back the next night against mark. but he has had to sharetwo games on a weekend swing into Redskins should provide a real test nearing its annual stretch run, Notre to bury Ferris 8-I. thereby showing duties with Dyck throughout thesouthern Ohio. for DiStanislao's crew, despite an I 1­
The Irish will play Mount St. Dame's hockey team has a prime op­that they have no intentions to wilt season. Dyck holds a 6-9-I record
7 record that includes a 5-point loss to Northern Illinois, a team Notre
Joseph here in the school's Physical portunity to gain some ground when before anyone. while posting a 3.69 g.a.a. -good Education Buliding tonight, then it meets Lake Superior State Saturday Spearheading first-year Coach Bill enough to make Lake Superior one
Dame handled 67-52 back in 
travel to Oxford, Ohio, for tomor-at 7:30p.m. and Sunday afternoon at Selman's squad is junior Steve Mul­of the stingiest teams in the league.
December. 

2 at the ACC. holland. The right winger has ac­The Laker netminders will berow morning's game against Miami Mary Ann·Myers, Miami's 5-foot 4­Coming off two consecutive cumulated 44 points thus far, pressed to keep their legitimacyUniversity. inch point guard, is the leading league splits, including last week's at including I6 goals and a team­however, if)eff Logan, Bill RothsteinCoach Mary DiStanislao's club Redskin scorer, averaging over 16 Michigan Tech, Lefty Smith's crew leading 28 assists. Co-captain Steve and especially Dave·Poulin keep upwill be looking to extend a nine­points a game. Also scoring in will be eying the Soo Lakers as prey Sherman and sophomore Mickey their recent play. With 23 goals andgame winning streak tonight against double figures are 6-foot 5-inch cen­for a sweep -a feat that has eluded Candler are available to pick up 25 assists, Poulin now stands third in
Mount St. joseph's, a school located ter Deb Gruson ( 11.8) and guard 
the Irish since the Great Lakes where Mulholland leaves off, as each the league scoring race, and the bulkon the fringe of the Cincinnati city Kris lJvingston (I0.2). 
Tournament in December. tops the team with I 7 goals. of his output has been in the lastlimits. Grushon and freshman center 
Such an occurence would put A pleasant suprise for Selman this seven weeks. In that period, the
The Mounties, playing a schedule Tonya Stubbs each haul . down Notre Dame in at least fifth place in year has been the play of freshman senior center has struck for 20 goals
made up predominantly ofDivision I around six rebounds per contest. 
the CCHA, and subsequent move­center Wayne Vetero. His IO goals and 12 assist -enough to give himand II schools, sport a 6-8 record "Grushon is really starting to ment to fourth would insure the and 23 assists puts him in contention CCHA recognition in each ofthe lastfollowing a five-point loss Tuesday come around for them," DiStanislao Irish of home ice advantage in at for rookie-of-the-year honors, and six weeks.
night to Central State. Included in says. "She did't play a lot in the least the first round of the playoffs. he will definitely be a factor in the Despite the continued absence ofthose eight setbacks was one against beginning of the season, but ever Standing in the way ofIrish hopes Soo Lakers' success for the remain­jeffPerry, the Irish have been able toWilmington College which Mountie since they've come back from their 
will be another team in the midst ofa 
der ofthe season. keep their heads above water of­Coach Jean Dowell says "should 
see LADIES page 11 

hot streak. Lake Superior has tasted 
Guarding the nets for Lake Supe-fensively. In fact, by averaging 5.6
have been a win." goals per game in the last I 4 games,
"Other than that," says Dowell, Not .re Dame stands fourth in the"we're pretty pleased to be 6-8 with league for goals scored.
the schedule we've played. We don't 
While putting the puck into the


Fencers thrust toward Wayne St.
have a lot of depth, so when we get net has not been a problem, lettingin foul trouble, we ARE in trouble. 
them in has. A semi-slump for DaveWe also don't have the benefit of 
By BILL MARQUARD ended the longest winning streak in The Irish edged Clemson I4-13, Laurion has put the spotlight back
Title IX because, being an all-girls 
Sports Writer NCAA history. and Wayne State upended the Tigers on junior netminder Bob McNamara
school, we aren't able to ask the ad­
.. "Wayne State has assembled a I 5-I2 the next afternoon in -a winner last Saturday against
ministration for comparable funds." 
When two teams who account for great team this year, as they always Chicago. Thus, by the transitive law Michigan Tech. Unless somethingJulie Franz tops the Mounties in 
four out of the last five national do," remarked Irish coach Mike of sports, the Tartars and Irish 
see ICERS page 11both scoring and rebounding. A 5­

championships go head-to-head, DeCicco. "Whenever Wayne State should be fairly evenly matched. 
foot 9-inch forward, Franz is scoring sparks are sure to fly. and Notre Dame face each other,at a 22 ppg clip, and pulling down 
When the two teams are Notre you can bet it will be one fantastic "We're are really beginning to put 
seven rebounds a game. 

INSIDE

Dame and Wayne State and the sport fencing meet." things together this season," offered 
Kim Winkler, the Mounties 6-foot 
is fencing, you can never tell what The Irish hold a 22-Ioedge in the DeCicco, now in his third decade as 
center, is the only other double 
will happen. all-time series with Wayne State, a!-mentor of the Irish fencers. Fresh-
White Sox, p.12
figure scorer, averaging 16 ppg. 

The Irish face Wayne State today though the Tartars have won the last men like Andy Quaroni and Mike 
"Mount St. Joseph's has historical­
at 5 p.m. in the ACC. two meets including a 17-Io deci-Janus have indicated that they can 
ly had a pretty strong program," says 
Take two years ago for example. sion last season. Yet DeCicco is fence with the best in the cou t ntry,
DiStanislao. "They've taken away 
Notre Dame's 122-meet victory confident ofthe team's chances. and that bodes well for the whole 
Shumate, p.13

their scholarships and moved down string was on the line, the team team." 
from Division II to III this year, but 
score was tied I 3-13, and the bout "Any fencing team is heatable, Going into the match, the Irish 
they're still tough. They still have 
score was knotted at 4-4 in the last including Wayne State. Had Clem-men are 11-0 and are riding a 16­
some kids who were on scholarship, 
Branning, p.14

bout of the meet. With one touch of son gotten some early momentum meet winning streak dating back to 
and they're all good outside 
the epee, Wayne State earned its 9th against us here last Friday, they very last season. The Irish women are 7-2 
shooters. We are a little bigger than 
____ -·· all-time victory over the Irish and easily could have won that meet." on the year. 


-·--· · · -~··=~czziiii.!iiiiiiiiiiiiiii;:xjj;;;;;liiiiiiiMi;;;,_;:;_,;::.-::_c-..:;c~iii.;;:;,!!ioi;;a.oiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiijji;i;r;;,;,.nn;;r;:,;;;.iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
....::::­






