
., , Smerd-page 7 

VOL. XVII, NO. 72 the indqx-mlnll -.tu(.knt nnv-.paper "lT\·ing notrl" dame and ..ailll llLlf! ·., TIJESDAY, DECEMBER 14, 1982 
Suspect in Tylenol I extortion found 
NEW YORK (AP) -James The whereabouts of Lewis' 
W. Lewis, charged with at­wife, Leann, 35, was not tempting to extort $1 million in known, but she was relieved to the ::.even Chicago-area Tylenol be still in the New York area. poisoning deaths, was captrued In Chicago, Charles Kitchel, here yesterday by federal special agent with the Illinois agents, pollee satd. Divison of Criminal Investiga­
The arrest means authorities tion, said he understood Mrs. 
will have a "much easier" time Lewis planned to surrender. 
determining whether Lewis Seven people in the Chicago 
was involved in the killings, area died between Sept. 29 and 
Illinois Attorney General Oct. 1 from taking capsules of 
Tyrone Fahner said in Spring­Extra-Strength Tylenol that 
field, Ill. had been filled with cyanide. 
Lewis, 36, subject of a No one has been arrested in 
nation-wide manhunt, was ar­the poisonings. 
rested at a midtown annex of Lewis was charged in mid­
the New York Public Library at October with attempted extor­
40th Street and Fifth Avenue, ~ion f?r. allegedly demanding 
police said. ~~1 milhon from Johnson & 
Authorities said a clerk re­Johnson, the parent company 
cognized him from a wanted of Tylenol's manufacturer, poster, called authorities, and MacNeil Consumer Products A Polish famzfy in Warsaw watch and Lewis was arrested without Co. listen to martial law leader General 
incident by two federal agents The letter demanded that the Woiciech jaruzeisky announcing that the 
about 2 p.m. as he was looking money be mailed to an inactive 
at out-of-town newspapers, account at a Chicago bank and 
said Kenneth Walton, deputy threatened additional Student Senate 
assistant FBI director. poisonings unless the demand 
"He offered no resistance. was met. 
He admits to his identity,'' Fahner said Lewis had made 
Undergraduate club proposed 
Walton said at a news confer­statements to FBI agents in 
ence, noting that Lewis was New York but said he did not By TOM MOWLE finals week. It was decided that security needs on campus. 
unarmed. make a confession. StaffReporter it is too late to implement this Several Senators expressed 
Asked whether Lewis made plan for this semester, but the doubts about the feasibility of
At one time during the 
any other statement, Walton investigation, Fahner had Senate will consider it for next an escort service, saying "it 
said, "No comment." called Lewis the ''prime A proposal to establish an semester. The advantages of would not be used." Students' 
"There is no evidence that suspect" in the deaths. undergraduate club in the the proposal so stated m the main worries are related to the 
directly links him to the Tylen­But in letters to Chicago and Chautauqua Ballroom, which resolution, included being "a parking lots, where the Senate 
ol murders," Walton added. Kansas City newspapers mail­won the Operation Brainstorm more convenient location for suggested some type of call 
Despite Walton's statement ed from New York, Lewis competition, was discussed at South Quad residents'' than box system. Also discussed 
last night's Student Senate
that Lewis admitted to his professed his innocence in the the library and helping to was initiating a "Drunk Tank" 
identity, Lewis refused to iden­poisonings and said authorities meeting in LaFortune. "alleviate the study space as a means of transporting 
tify himself when he was should look elsewhere to find The proposed club would shortage.'' students who are too drunk to 
arraigned later yesterday on serve only non ·alcoholic bever­Father John Van Wolvlear, drive back to campus.
the culprits. 
federal charges or extortion ages and would include a disc Vice-President for Student This year's student body and 
Fahner said it was Lewis'
and unlawful flight to avoid jockey and dancing. In order to Affairs, gave the Student class officer elections will not prosecution. The warrant letters to the Chicao Tribune implement the idea, the place­Senate permission "to research be held at the same time. named Robert Richardson and that led to his capture. He said ment bureau would need to the cost of installing cable 
Elections for Student Body auth0rities have seaid that is investigators concentrated on move from the Ballroom, which television" in a letter to Lloyd President and Vice-President newsstands and other places
one of many aliases Lewis has it now uses. Burke, Student Body Presi­will be held on Feb. 8. Class
where the Tribune could be
used. Bail was set at $5 million The Student Senate also dent. He suggested that the Officer elections will be held on 
and another hearing_ was set bought or read, including the considered opening the South Senate "concentrate on install­March 1. The purpose of this 
for Dec. 23. library. Dining Hall for studying during ing this system in the LaFor­schedule is to ''enable ample 
tune Student Center'' and time for the discussion of 
''urge the hall governments to different issues."
AsofDec. 31 go the CVR route (Cassette The Senate noted that the 
Video Recorder).'' He said that new happy hour directive is­
Director of Student Housing sued by Father Van Wolvlear,
Father Michael Heppen, "is which states that the same

Poland suspends martiallaw 
willing to assist any hall" with room cannot be used for a funds for such an acquision. 
See SENATE, page 3
WARSAW* Poland (AP)-­Sunday night, would not apply has said he offered to lift The Senate also discussed The government yesterday ask­to the most radical opponents of economic sanctions if such ed Parliament to rarity its martial law. steps were taken. decision to suspend most of the In Brussels, Belgium, the "We'll be watching and 

SMCstudent victim 
martial law restrictions impos­foreign office of the outlawed waiting to see what the Polish 
ed exactly one year ago, and a Solidarity trade union dismiss­government does," Speakes 
press spokesman indicated the ed the promised easing of said. Asked if the White House 
easing of military rule would martial law as an effort to was encouraged by develop­

ofabduction attempt
begin Dec. 31. placate Western public opinion ments in Poland, he replied, "I 
Solidarity's foreign branch in and bankers who have been wouldn't say that." By MARGARET FOSMOE According to Anne Reed, 
Brussels charged the move was reluctant to lend Poland any On Sunday, Jaruzelski said Saint Mary's Executive Editor director of public relations and 
only "cosmetic." The U.S. more money. the military council decided official spokesperson for Saint 
reaction was cool and indicated The 84-million-member In­martial law could be eased by Mary's Security, the student 
the Reagan administration was ternational Confederation of the end of the year. The A Saint Mary's junior was left McCandless hall shortly 
not ready to lift its sanctions Free Trade Unions also issued a Parliament, or Seim, was asked the victim of an abduction after 11 p.m. Sunday evening. 
against Poland. statement in Brussels saying a today to approve the necessary attempt Sunday evening in the She walked to the parking lot, 
Gen. Wojciech J aruzelski, partial lifting of martial law is legislation--a move that was McCandless parking lot. A located north of Angela Ath­
the premier, Communist Party insufficient. It demanded that assured since the body acts a suspect had not been appre­letic Facility. As she was 
Chief and head of the ruling Solidarity be reinstated as the r~bber stamp to council deci­hended as of last night. unlocking her car door the man 
military council, said the re­only independent labor union in SIOns. The student escaped from grabbed her arm and ordered 
gime would not tolerate any the Soviet bloc. the incident unharmed. her to come with him at 
military rule imposed last Dec. 13 wzll be suspended by the end of the year. 
[AP] 
social unrest after martial law is In Washington, White House Spokesman, Wieslaw Gor­The suspect is described as a ap_eroximately 11:10 p.m. eased--and that the council spokesman Larry Speakes said nicki, said the Seim's legisla­black male, 20 to 25 years, 
The man was carrying a ~ould retain some of its sweep­Poland should lift martial law tive work could be completed by 6-foot to 6-foot, 2 inches in "short, bladed knife," perhapsmg powers. entirely, release all political Dec. 23, and government press height, with a slight build and 
Officials, also made it clear prisoners and allow a resump­spokesman Jerzy Urban said short cropped hair. He was J aruzelski's promise of a limit­tion of the free trade union the easing of military restric­· wearing dark pants and an See ABDUCTION, page 3 ed amnesty, made in a speech movement. President Reagan tions would then begin Dec. 31. army jacket. 

'. 


ewsBrie/§ 
Hy The Obsen•er and The Associated Press 
Secretary of State meets Pope 
Secretary of State George P. Shultz met privately yesterday with Pope John Paul II to confer on the announcement that the Polish government would ease martial law in the pope's homeland by year's end. Shultz earlier met with Italian Premier Amintore Fanfani on the busiest day of two-week European Tour, but details of the discussion were not known. Italian Government sources had said they would discuss planned deployment of U.S. missiles in Italy and elsewhere in Western Europe. and U.S.-Italian rela­tions. Shultz also was to meet with Egyptian President Hosni Mubarek to explain a new U.S. approach to breaking the: deadlock in negotiations over withdraw! of Israeli. Syrian, and Palestinian forces from Lebanon. The Vatican said the Polish-born pontiff and Shultz talke~ _for 3~ minutes _in the papal library here, descnbmg thetr conversation as qutet and not provtding anv details. U.S. officials said earlier that the ltWo would talk about developments in Poland, where military ruler, Gen. Wojciech Jaruzelski announced that most restrictions of the martial law imposed one year ago today would be lifted before the end of the year. -AP. 

F AF now available 
The 1983-84 Financial Aid Form is now available at the Notre Dame Financial Aid Office, according to Financial Aid Director Joseph Russo. The form was delayed in printing this year because of a court case brought forward by a student lobbyist group. The group took to court the College Scholarship Service, pnnters of the form, because of a clause in the Higher Education Act that was passed in 1980. The law said that a student should not have to pay to file for federal aid. The fee that the CSS charges is for sending the F AF to sources of aid other that the federal government. The deadline for filing the Financial Aid Form is March 1. 

Right to Life sponsors trip 
The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's "Right ot Life" group will sponsor a trip to Washington, D.C. from Friday, Jan. 21 to Sunday, Jan. 23, to mark the lOth anniversary of the Supreme Court's abortion decision. Jan. 22, 1983 will mark the lOth anniversary of the Court's Roe vs. Wade decision which gave the right to abortion-on-de­mand in the U.S. Those Notre Dame students attending will join 100,000 other U.S. citizens in a march for life demonstration. The students will have the chance to meet with their respective Congressmen in addition to attending a pro-life discussion. The deadline for signing uf for the R1ght to Life Bus trip is Dec. 15. The total cost 
o the bus tnp is $50 and a $10 downpayment is due on when signing up. For more information contact John May at 283-6775. -The Observer 

Victims can collect settlement 
People who were in the lobby of the Hyatt Regency hotel when the skywalks collapsed can sign a sworn statement and collect $1,000 under the terms of an out-of-court settlement that went into effect yesterday. The settlement arrangement is open to people who have filed lawsuits arising from the July 17, 1981, tragedy as well as those who have never made a legal cla1m or hired a lawyer. But all who accept the $1,000 must give up all other legal claims against the hotel owners. Police estimate about 2,000 people were in the lobby durin~ a crowded dance when the skywalks collapsed, kdling 114 people and injuring about 200. Corroboration of the claims will amount to making a sworn statement and filling out a brief questionnaire that will include listing companions at the hotel when the collapse occurred. Officials said they are uncertain what penalties would be imposed against anyone caught lying. -AP 

Toy factory rebuilt for X-mas 
The rebuilding of a toy center five days after an arsonist struck gave the poor children of Bridgeport a "real home Christmas," a volunteer worker says. It looked as if the Christmas Villge toy center, run by the Police Athletic League, might not celebrate its 28th consecutive year of supplying toys to poor children. A fire, believed to have been the work of an arsonist, leveled the chalet Tuesday and destroyed $11,000 in toys. But the next day, hundreds of volunteers worked around the clock to rebuild, and took in thousands of pledges for contributions from toy companies and mdividuals. The center reopened Sunday and more than 2,500 people turned out. About two-thirds of the toys had been replaced and 1,000 children took turns sitting on Santa's knee. -AP 

Ooudy, windy, warmer 
_Partly cloudy, !'indy, a~d warme~ today. High in the m1d 40s. Increasmg cloudmess tomght. Low in the low 30s. Chance of showers Wednesday. High around 40. 
-------·------------------------------------~----~----------­
Tuesday, December 14, 1982-page 2 


Gifts that keep giving 
Shopping for presents is always a troublesome task. Unless the person you are buying for is a sub-adult mentally, you probably have no idea what to get. With kids (of whatever age), even if you don't get them exCJ.ctly what they want, you can stifle any complaints by threarening to drop-kick them. 
For older folks it's harder. They have to smile 
when you give them their eighty-third tie, or 
their twenty-sixth bottle of cheap cologne. 
Some people we naturally assume have everything they need. In many cases these people may be too shy to let us know what they really desire. 
Thus, as a public service, I've listed below a few animate and inanimate folks and what I would get for them if I had the money. 
FATHER HESBURGH: A life size mflatable 
doll of himself. Not only would it require a lot 
of hot air to blow up, but the giddy students, 
who stand out in the cold singing Christmas 
carols to his window would think they were 
doing more than contributing to the breeze. 
GERRY FAUST: As those of you who have seen the ads know, Coach Faust is leading a tour to Europe this spring. I wish him all the success. It could be the start of a new career for him. Imagine, a week with Ger touring the scenic spots ofNewJersey, or sampling culture spots of the Midwest. 
SAINI MARY'S SECURITY: For this valiant 
force in blue, I would purchase several 
seeing-eye dogs. Of course they would have to 
be from a long-haired breed, so that the 
pooches could sport pink and green ribbons. 
PROVOST TIMOTHY O'MEARA: A large research grant for animal husbandrey. This way, his new faculty office building that no one likes could be put to good use as a holding pen for experimental pigs and sheep. 
NOTRE DAME MEMORIAL LIBRARY: A 
subscription to the Reader's Digest Condensed 
Book Club. This would be a quick way to 
elevate the book levels to that of many Junior 
Colleges. 

DEAN ROEMER: A working still. This would give the Dean an audio-visual model to better show students the dangers of alcohol, and enliven those long Friday afternoons up in the Dome. 
THE LA FORTUNE STUDENT CENTER: A 
10 megaton warhead. During the resulting 
reconstruction phase, the new and improve "La 
Fortune II" could incorporate all sorts of nifty 
social space in a roach-free environment. Of 
course the explosion would take out The 
Observer offices, which brings me to my next 
gift. .. 

ASPIRIN MAN: A national syndication that 
will put the legendary man of powder up 
against such yuck-ups as Nancy and Dondi. A 
bmer pill to swallow. 

DIGGER PHELPS: A waiver of the truth in 
advertising laws. Is there a coach wearing 
Ponys with six consecutive winning seasons? 
THE SNOW PLOW DRIVERS: Plenty of 


RyDD Ver Berkmoes 
Managing Edito1: 
Inside Tuesday 
snow. Word has it these manic men hope to beat last year's record of 23 mutilated students and 48 mangled bikes. 
CORBY'S: The national fame this over-pric­ed, over-heated swill joint deserves. Rather than dig up Wyoming, why not make Corby's and the entire "five-points" area home for the "dunce pack" MX missile base? Should the Russians attack, many of the patrons would not even notice. 
STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT LLOYD BURKE: A lifetime Transpo bus pass. After his recent touching campaign to ''save the buses,'' Lloyd deserves to spend the rest of his days touring Michiana, and meeting the diverse cultures found only on a city bus. 
FRENZIED FOOTBALL FANS WHOSE CAR HORNS PLAY THE FIGHT SONG: Car bombs. 
THE LAUNDRY SERVICE: The pair of underwear of mine that was lost three years ago. I've outgrown them. 
THE BOOKSTORE: A revolving blue light so they can "move out" those obsolete green and gold N.D. fashions. Also, a hidden ume bomb m the book department. This way they could experience the adrenaline charge of dashing down the aisles for the last copy of a vital textbook that has been underordered. 
WSND: A return of their highest rated program ever, "Sex at Notre Dame." This open air forum provided Notre Dame males a chance to discuss sexuality in the most mature manner they were capable of. 
RIVER CITY RECORDS: A chance to sell tickets for Coach Faust's previously mentioned bus tours. No cancellations please. 
THE OLD FIELDHOUSE: Another fountain of Lourdes. This miracle would do for the decrepit barn, what the Gip did for Washington Hall. Rather than sell it brick by brick to greedy alums, the structureI shrine could be renovated into a centrally located multi-purpose center (the nuclear crater that once was La Fortune will probably remain "hot" for some time). This would also allow the more advanced Saint Mary's joggers a more energetic run that the Grotto. 
FATHERJOHN VAN WOLVLEAR: Goose's. A reopening of this former underage happy hour haven would get the students out of the parry rooms and into the real world where they belong. Father Van and his cigars could then smolder in peace knowing that the dorms were as dry as an empty keg. 
And finally to the readers, a Christmas of happy interludes, and joyous celebrations. 



The Observer 
Yeah, Yeah, Yeah' 

Des1gn Ediror "Paul" Neely 
Des1gn As~1Mams "John" llltg 
"Yoko" Hamihon 
layout Staff­

lookmg rhru a glass oman News Ednor· "Lovely Rna" Doyle Copy Ednor "S~xy Sad1e" Dirkc:rs Features Layour· 
"Farher McKc:nz1e" MusumeCI 
Ednonal Layout· 

"Dr. Robert" Cerabona Sporrs Copy Ednor-"George'' Needles Typists Supremt:" ''Maxwdl" Perry "Eleanor R1gby" Brown ND Day Editor:"Bungalow Bill" Grote SMC Day Eduor: Eleanor, pan 2 Ad Design: "lucy in the Sky" Euch Phorographc:r: "Ringo" Laches Vuesr Appearances· "Linda" Grin Vera, Chuck, and Dave 
Taxman Mr. Wilson 
Taxman Mr. Heath 
"Perc: Bes1" Picher 
Lack of Appearance· 

The Sysrem. R.I. Pieces 
·'And in th~ ~,a 1he Jove you 1aAe 
Is equallo the Jove you milA~.·· 

The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer 1s published by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Marys Col· lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnt1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame Indiana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduct1on nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
All Observer staffers: Invitations to the annual Christmas blast are available in the office. If you don't have one by Wednesday night, you might as well be in Elkhart. 



Paln1er House named Senior Fortna! site 
By MARY ANN MCMORROW yet since they are not expected 
News Staff to reach the students' homes until Christmas break, he said. There will be a raffle for bids at 
This year's senior formal will senior bar on March 2nd and be held on Saturday, Afr. 9, in general bid sales will be from the Grand Ballroom o Chica­March 7-11, according to the go's Palmer House Hotel. The chairperson. $65 per couple dinner dance will be one of the many activi­The senior formal committee ties planned for the weekend in chose the Palmer House for the Chicago, according to the gen­formal after considering most of eral chairperson of the senior the major hotels in Chicago. formal committee, Bill Hennes­Hennessey feels that the at­sey. mosphere and accommodations 
Other scheduled events in­should please the students. clude a cocktail party on Saturday. There is a possibility 
The committee sponsored a of getting reduced rates on theme contest to name the 

theater tickets and dinner for formal. The winning entry,Friday night. 
"The Main Event," was sub­Although rooms will only cost mitted by Sarah Clarke. 
approximately $12 per night, Seniors should check the Ob­
based on triple and quadruple A man in a Santa costume, wearing a Ronald 
server every Wednesday for 
occupancy, many seniors find Reagan mask, n'des a mock cruise misszle
further information, Hennessey themselves short on cash at that said. 
time of year, according to Hennessey. This year, a letter was mailed to all senior parents Off-campus housing director suggesting that they buy a formal bid as a Christmas present to avoid that problem, 

Suggestions made for crime prevention 
he said. The response to the letters has not been determined 
By WARREN BERRY ram in which the students and neighborhood safe. glary vtcums. Crime prevent­News Staff neighbors are encouraged to Other safeguards include ion is something you must report suspicious activities to Brother Campbell's "three practice daily, not just once in 
... Senate ''Because of growing con­the police.'' With this in mind, nevers": Never talk about trips a while. If you follow the 
cern over off-campus security, 
Brother Campbell has reinitiat­or vacation plans where stran­simple tips outlined everyit is important for the students ed the following crime prevent­gers can overhear you. Never chance you get, you'll not onlyto recognize and understand
continued from page 1 ion programs for the off­leave a visible note on your be protecting your personalthat burglars do not like to campus security: door saying that you have gone belongings, but you may be
work for their money,'' said The first of these, which he and giving the time of your keeping a potential criminal -ahappy hour and a party on the BrotherJohn Campbell, direct­
terms "Project M.A.R.C. ", is expected arrival home. Never youngster -out of trouble.
same day, will hurt the large 
or of off-campus housing. the very first step in helping let mail or newspapers pile up Crime prevention makes a lot
dorms, such as Flanner and Campbell has proposed guide­yourself reduce incidents of on your doorstep -have a of sense, and a safer commun­Grace, more than the smaller lines to aid students in their theft of personal property. The neighbor pick them up for you, ity in which to live," he said.
dorms. Burke stated that his 
crime-prevention programs. 
project entails the use of or discontinue their service. These guidelines are stmpleunderstanding was that the With the Christmas vacation electric marking tools to mark These precautions may seem and easily mastered. And, if
directive would prohibit the approaching, concern abo~t t~e all valuable. Students should trivial, yet they are often put to good use, allow a safesame group from sponsoring a safety of off-campus housmg Is see Mrs. June Urbanski in the overlooked. and care-free environment
happy hour and a party on the 
mounting Lost and Found Department, "You don't have to be one of while you are enjoying thesame night. Senators plan to "Burglars steal and they Room 121 of the Ad. Building, the 2 million residential bur-holiday season.
discuss the matter with Van continue to steal as long as we for the rental of this diamond­Wolvlear. make it easy for them. They tipped marker. Students should 
,

The University's exchange are carrying off television sets, 
mark all valuables with their
program w111 continue this stereos, jewelry, cameras, and Social Security number and twoyear. Notre Dame students furnishings at an alarming letter state abbreviation. Thismay visit the University of rate," he said. He also noted method is a more positive proof Toronto from Feb. 11-15. that very few burglaries are of ownership than just theToronto students will visit here committed with the use of serial number.
from March 3-8. force; burglars enter through 
Brother Campbell also points 
The Senate plans to submit a unlocked doors and windows, out two additional precautions 
.

report to the Provost on the usually when the occupants are off-campus students may ta~e.
PACE report, offering definite away. If the criminal cannot The first is to be sure to nottfysug~estions and constructive enter the home, he will un­the South Bend Police whencrittcism after Christmas doubtedly take anything that you are leaving town and when break. can be lifted from the ground you plan to return. Also, leave Other ideas discussed from and carried away. 
the name and address of 
Operation Brainstorm included There are many excellent someone who will be respons­
having an ethnic festival at lines of defense against the ible for the residence while you Stepan Center, opening a ba­burglar: good locks and hard­are gone. If you plan to take kery shop below. LaForn:ne, ware on doors, a vicious sound­advantage of this, call 284­having a campus-wide MusiCal­ing dog, and alarm systems. 
9201, and advise the officer
Talent Show, improving WSND This may not be quite enough, that you are requesttn_gradio, scheduling weekend bus however, ''In my judgment, "home watch". W tth thts trips to Chicago, and opening there is no better deterrent program, police cars patrol the the Varsity Weight Rooms at against burglary than an or­area three times a shift, nine night for student use. ganized neighbor watch prog­times a day. 
There are flyers being sent to every South Bend neighbor­hood requesting neighbors 
# I I conduct surveillance for each
Abduction 

orher. Police also noted that some houses are unnumbered, 
Handcrafted Items
search, according to a spokes­making it difficult for the police continued from page 1 
Decorative Accessories
man for the sheriff's office. to respond as quickly as they 
Artwork Toys Games
The case remains under in­otherwise could. 
Brass Crystal
a pen knife, according to Reed. vestigation by the Detective A second precaution in 
Dolls Pewter
The victim jerked her arm Bureau of the sheriff's office. Brother Campbell's program is away and kicked the man, who The victim refused to com­"neighborhood watch'.' -get­
Holiday Hours
then fled east on foot. ment on the incident. ting to know your ne1ghbors, The student ran to It was. not known whether forming a real community, 
su~day 1-5
McCandless Hall, where the Sunday's abduction attempt cooperating with each other night desk director called Saint was related to a Nov. 5 assault and with r.olice in your sector 
Moo-Sat 10-9 
Mary's Security, according to at Saint Mary's. In that case, so y.Ju w1ll have people you 
219·232-8488
Michelle Valley, McCandless two students were accosted know watching out for you and 
"Gifts that reflect
Hall director. near McCandless Hall and one your property. The Off-campus 
!lOUT good taste."
Security searched for the of the victims was forced into Housing Office has pamphlets 
Petoskey o Naples
man, but he was not appre­the assailant's car, a green designed to aid yo~ in inspc;ct­
Lajolla o South Bend
hended. The Saint Josephy Dodge Charger. She escap€:d ing your home for 1ts secunry. County Sheriff's Office was unharmed a few minutes later. Take time to put your house m 
The East Bank 
notified at 11:29 p.m. A dis­A suspect in the Nov. 5 order; then, talk to your neigh­

Emporium Building 
patcher arrived at the College incident has not been appre­bors about how you can h~lp 
121 S. Niles Ave. at Jefferson 
at 11 ';33 p.m. and aided in the hended. each other keep your enure 


i 

'<1!' ....~~ • 

..---------------------------­

The Observer Tuesday, December 14, 1982 -page4 
Placement Bureau 


Volunteer careers explored 
By SONYA STINSON if necessary, to refer them to those 'hot' backgrounds su~h 
Senior Staff Reporter Sr. Judith Ann Beattie, direct­as computers, you would be or of Volunteer Services or Fr. well advised to check into some Don McNeill, director of the of these alternatives," said 
For those Notre Dame Center for Social Concerns, for Geoffrion, who calls the impact students considering alterna­further information. Students of the high unemployment rate tives to the conventional job may look at the files anytime "frightening." market or graduate and profes­during the day, Geoffrion said. "Students must do every­sional schools in their future He explained that the files thing they can to enhance their plans, the Placement Bureall contain information concerning chances of getting a job,'' he has a file of information about a wide-range of opportunities. explained. over 470 volunteer service and Some of the orgamzations in­The experience provided by non-profit organizations. This cluded are the Peace Corps, some of the agencies in the resource center, located in the YMCA, Catholic Relief ACE program can be helpful, 
i Room 222 of the Administra­Services, and the Center for said Geoffrion. For example, tion Building, is called the National Security Studies. The research internships with na­program of Alternative Career nature of the various jobs and tional organizations provide the Exploration (ACE). compensation offered with chance to make contacts and 
The new director of the ACE these programs varies. look for other opportunities
r: program is Charles Geoffrion, "Some of these programs while being ''where the action a former consultant for various will pay a modest living salary is," he cited. non-profit agencies, Placement while others do more,'' Since ACE does not actually
rI 
Bureau director Richard Geoffrion said. "For example, place students or arrange inter­
i 
! Willemin announced. Geoffrion there is an environmental ser­views for them, personal initia­will be available in the office vice agency which pays a tive is important, explained from 3 until 5 p.m. daily to pretty good starting salary.'' Geoffrion. Students must write answer students' questions and Geoffrion feels there are to the organization to find out 

three types of students who how to get involved, he said. might be attracted the ACE "Student initiative is very program. One is the student important in this area,'' with a long-term interest in Geoffrion commented. ''The service or a career in the real world is outside the cam­
$8 million stolen in largest robbery 
non-profit world. In such cases, pus and it's tough out there. he believes the ACE pro~ram The students who do well are 
NEW YORK (AP)--Two Sentry' officials could conduct a wick said the men apparently can be a good starting pomt. the ones who show initiative ­masked men with a shotgun thorough inventory and count disabled the vault's alarm A student whose future goals the ones who hustle.'' punched a hole through a whatever money remained. system before breaking in, but are unclear also might be Before coming to Notre tarpaper roof and staged the "We're still waiting for a police did not know how. interested in the opportunity Dame, Geoffrion had been largest cash robbery to U.S. complete inventory," he said. for an interim period of ser­a <COllege professor and a Peace history by taking an estimated ''There are numbers floating The guard was discovered vice, learning, and inner Corps training officer, in addit­$8 million from an armored car all over the place, but the handcuffed to a pipe at 6 a.m. searching. The third type of ion to being a consultant for company headquarters, author­(company's) president has to by other employees reporting student may have plans for a various universities and the St. ities said yesterday. count the money.'' for work. job in the mainstream, but be Joseph County department of 
The ski-masked bandits cut a But a source close to the FBI unable to-find one. Many Parks and Recreation. two foot hole in the roof of investigation who requested Previously, the highest sum students may be confronted Sentry Armoured Car Courier anonymity said "8 million reported stolen in a robbery in with the last situation as the "I am very happy to share in the Bronx late Sunday night seems to be pretty much the the United States was the $5.8 unemployment rate remains at any experiences from over the and swung into the two-story count." million in cash and jewelry an all-time high and the oppor­last 10 years with students red brick building on a rope . Police said the company taken from a Lufthansa cargo tunities in the job market who are about to undertake the according to city police and the would check the funds left in Its area at Kennedy Airport four dwindle, Geoffrion said. same kind of thing I was FBI. vault against records to deter­years ago, on Dec. 11, 1978. ''Unless you have one of doing.'' 
After handcuffing a guard, mine how much was taken. the robbers pried open the A secretary at the Sentry metal doors of a vault room with office said neither Jennings nor Anti-nuclear missiles crowbars, police said. The pair the company's president was then carried bags of $50 and available for comment. She 

Protestors retnovedfrotn base 
$100 bills to the building's refused to say why. garage loaded them into a Police said the guard on duty vehicle they had parked there at the office at 3548 Boston GREENHAM COMMON* strations at the small base 40 line held and the van left. 
London.

and drove away, police said. Road was not injured by the England (AP) -Police carried miles west of On One protester, Beryl Rice, Detective Lt. Michael O'Shea robbers after they swung down and dragged anti-nuclear pro­Sunday an estimated 20,000 34, said a bus ran over her foot of the 47th Precinct said no from the roof at 11:15 p.m. testers away from a U.S. Air women joined hands and encir­but she was not seriously hurt. official figure would be set until Police spokesman Fred El-Force Base yesterday after cled the entire 9-mile base An unidentified policeman,
perimeter, and hundreds
hundreds of women converged possibly struck by the same 
camped overnight intending to
on the gates to protect planned bus, suffered minor injuries
blockade the bl_lse yeste~day.
deployment of 96 nuclear mis­and was carried away by fellow 
CALL TODAY FOR 
siles at the base. Shortly before daybreak, officers. One protester and a police­when busloa:ds of military per­Throughout the protest, man were struck by a military sonnel began arriving, police the women coor.dinated their
GUARANTEED 
RESERVATIONS 
vehicle and slightly hurt, and moved in to clear away the movements by walkie-talkie. two women were arrested, said protesters. Oficers hauled the Helicopters hovered over the police Chief Inspector David women away to allow buses scene and a private plane flew Hodges. and trucks to enter, but the by trailing a banner with a
Clip and save this sdtedule 
Women carrying placards protesters kept coming back message -apparently from afor easy travel planning! and singing "Give Peace a and managed at one point to missile advocate -reading, Chance" formed a human car­bring traffic on a main road to ''Kremlin Sends Kongrarula­
To O'Hare From O'Hare 
pet outside each of the eight a standstill. tions." LEAVE This Col. This Col. ARRIVE entrances to the Greenham Minor scuffles broke out at NOTRE Chicago Ch1cago NOTRE midday when a police van The demonstration was 
Time T1me Common base, which is en­
DAME

DAME organized by a Women's Peace
BUS ARRIVE LEAVE BUS closed by a 15-foot high chain attempted to leave through a SHELTER O'HARE O'HARE SHELTm link fence. main gate. About 200 demon­Movement camp established 4:30a.m. 6:10a.m. 8:30a.m. 12:00 p.m. Police said there were 700-strators tried to break through near the base 15 months ago. 6:30a.m. 8:15a.m. 2:00p.m. police pushing Organizers said the protesters
10:30 a.m. 1,000 protesters yesterday, the lines, some 
8:3D a.m. 10:15 a.m. 12:30 p.m. 4:00p.m. 
1D:30 a.m. 12:15 p.m. 2:30p.m. 6:00p.m. second of two days of demon-officers to the ground, but the had come from Britain, 
12:30 p.m. 2:15p.m. 4:30p.m. 6:00p.m. Western Europe and the 
2:30p.m. 4:15p.m. 6:30p.m. 10:00 p.m. United States. 4:30p.m. 6:15p.m. 8:30p.m. 12:00 a.m. 
The small base in rural
6:30p.m. 8:15p.m. 11:00 p.m. 2:30a.m. 
Berkshire county employs 651 SOUTH BEND TIMES UNLESS OTHERWISE INDICATED. U.S. military personnel and EFFECTIVE 10/31/82. 
about 50 civilians. It has no
CALL FOR COMPLETE LIST OF PICKUP POINTS & TIMES. 
aircraft or tactical equipemtnFOR RESERVATIONS but is dotted with construction sites for the nuclear cruise
(119) 255-3068 missles. 
OR CALL YOUR 
Prime Minister Margaret
TRAVEL AGENT. 
i T'hatcher has agreed to have 
' 
i. nuclear missiles in Brtain as part of a NATO plan to deploy 572 cruise and Pershing 2 missiles in five European 
coumries. Britain plans to
Dec. ·13-14 10 a.m.-10 p.m. 
deploy 96 · cruise missiles at Greenham Common next year

Library Concourse 
and 64 at Molesworth, near 
Cambridge, by 1988.

•:11nw:mnrl h~ gn1lltcltn(l'((' [~ Jt(ili(\'1 :·rn·:·::··: 
~IIIIIIIIHIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIItllllltlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllfllllllll 


------......------------------.------~-­
-~---~------~ ~ -~---~~ ------·~---­

Off-campus prospects 


Tenants told to investigate 
Bv LESLIE ANNE WADE 
iVews Staff 
Prospective renters should make sure the place they settle on is suitable to their needs when choosing off-campus housing, accordmg to Brother 
John Campbell, Director of Off-Campus Residences. 
Ac"cording to Campbell, there are three categories of off-campus housing available ­rooms, houses and apartments. 
"A room," said Campbell, "is rented in a single family dwelling maintained and oc­cupied by the owner.'' Accord­ing to Campbell, this option does not allow much freedom in the use of the house, but there is the advantage of minimum responsibility. 
'·'A house allows plenty of freedom ... but you have to pay more bills and accept more responsibility,'' Campbell comments. 
"An apartment's advantage is somewhere between that ofa room and a house in that you have more freedom, but us­ually do not have to pay repair bills." 
In making plans to move off-campus, Campbell suggests that students contact someone thar they know who lives off-campus. The prospective off-campus resident should trv and meet the landlord, he sail 
· Campbell also urges that students get as many points as poss1ble 1n writing, while he warns that written agreements reduce the student's flexibility to move if unsatisfied. The average price for off­campus housing at Notre Dame is between $100 and $115 per month, he said. 
Students with further quest­ions regarding off-campus re­sidency can contact Brother John Campbell in room 311 of the Administration Building or by calling 239-5583. 
High interest rates 
Future looks dim for savings & loans 

WASHINGTON (AP) -De­
spite a rash of mergers intend­
ed to save ailing savings and 
loans, 83 percent of federally 
insured S&Ls lost money in the 
first half of 1982, according to 
figures obtained by The Assoc­
iated Press. In 12 states, 90 
percent were money losers, 
and in four states not one was 
profitable. 
The severe losses reflect the 
battering the industry has un­
dergone in the last few years 
because of high interest rates 
and inflation that force S&Ls to 
pay out more for savings 
accounts than they take in for 
mortgages, many of which 
were granted years ago at low 
interest rates. 
The problem is widespread, even striking S&Ls in "Sun­belt'' states where the econ­omy has not been as hard hit as in older industrial areas. 
At least three-quarters of the federally insured savings and loans in 43 states lost money in the first half of the year, according: to fie:ures the institu­tions are required to file with the Federal Home Loan Bank Board. 
In the other seven states ­Alaska, California, Colorado, New Mexico, Texas, West Vir­ginia, and Wyoming -at least half the associations were in the red. In Delaware, Hawaii, North Dakota and Rhode Island the figures show all the S&Ls reporting to the bank board lost money. 
States in which at least 90 percent of them paid out more than they took in were: Ala­bama, Georgia, Iowa, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, New Hampshire, New Jersey, Oregon, South Carolina and Utah. That held true for the District of Columbia, too. 
In all, 83 percent of the 3,533 federally insured savings and loans in the 50 states, the District of Columbia, Guam and Puerto Rico lost money in the first six months of this year. Puerto Rico was the only jurisdiction where more than half the S&Ls were profitable. 
The bank board is the chief federal supervisor of the insti­tutions, all of which have deposits insured up to $100,000 per saver by the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corp. That insurance has pre­vented losees to any depositors in federally insured S&Ls, de­spite the substantial losees in the industry. 
To get a closer look at how the S&Ls fared in the first half of the year, the AP purchased from the board a computer tape of the semi-annual financial reports. Montgomery Data Systems Inc. of Kensing­ton, Md., pulled from the tape information on assets, income and liabilities for each institu­tion. The AP did a similar check in the final six months of last year. Reports for the lat halfof this year won't be made public until next spring. 
In all, 2,943 S&Ls said their expenses exceeded their in­come at the end ofJune. In the final six months oflast year, 85 percent-3,173 out of 3,743 ­said they were losing money. 
Arthritis death 




Widower sues Oraflex Co. 
PITTSBURGH (AP) -The husband of an arthritic woman who died after taking the drug Oraflex has filed suit against Eli Lilly & Co. and the Physi­cia~ who prescribed the medi­canon. 
Chester Krawczyk contends in a 12-count lawsuit filed in Allegheny County Common Pleas Court that the Indianapo­lis-based pharmaceutical com­pany and the physician, Bertrand Stalzer, were negli­gent in the death of his wife. 
Stol~er, a rheumatologist, prescnbed Oraflex for Rose Kramczyk, 65, of Baden in 
Still critical 

Clark's wife worries about condition 
SALT LAKE CITY (AP) ­Barney Clark's wife is "wor­ried'' about the mechnical heart recip_ient's sl~w recovery ·from a senes of se1zures, and the semi-conscious patient is showing signs of ''restless­ness,'' hospital spokesmen 
said yesterday. 
Helen Kee, director of 
nursing, said Una Lod Clark, 
wife of the 61-year-ol retired 
dentist, was spending a great 
dad of time with her husband, 
rubbing lotion on his hands 
and feet. Mrs. Kee said Mrs. 
Clark was "worried" about 
Clark's condition. 
"She recognizes that we're 
doing all we can," Mrs. Kee 
said, but would not elaborate. 
On Sunday, the Seattle-area 
resident, who became the first 
human to receive a permanent 
artificial heart on Dec. 2, 
watched a football game on 
television and kissed his wife, 
accordin~ to Dr. Chase Peter­
son, Umversity of Utah vice 
president for health sciences. 
Peterson said Clark "has periods of good communication with his family," but there also are periods of poor communica­tion. 
Clark has been in critical but stable condition since a series of seizures a week ago left him unconscious. He has been slow to regain full consciousness but doctors say that is normal in such cases. 
"We're dealing with long­term recovery now. He is a sick post-operative patient who is continuing to recover," Peter­son said. 
And Clark's doctors indicate the patient -although still critical -is "becoming non­acute.'' 
Clark communicates mostly by mouthing words and tracing letters with his finger. How­ever, Peterson said doctos have been removing the respirator tube from his throat for short periods and Clark has been "mumbling on many occa­sions" about physical discom­fort things he needs. 
Peterson said he had no idea as to Clark's state of mind, but a medical center spokesman said yesterday that Clark ap­peared restles from having been inactive since the short but intense seizures last Tues­day. He said Clark spent a somewhat fitful night Sunday. 

''Nothing specific. Just rest­less,'' said spokesman John Owen. 
"No own has determined in any quantitative, precise way, that he is depressed," Peter­son said of Clark. 
He said Clark's ''periods of lucidity are getting longer," but they do not mark a smgle dramatic proof of recovery. 
Doctors have said the sei­zures five days after the im­plant of the J arvik-7 plastic ~eart probably were caused by an imbalance in body chemis­try. They also have said that while tests show no evidence of brain damage, they cannot entirely rule it out until they speak with a fully conscious panent. 
June, a few weeks before she died of a hemorrhage and related complications. 
She was admitted to Semick­ley Hospital June 28 and died July 2. 
The drug, touted by the manufacturer as a product which could halt the "cellular aspects" of arthritis, was with­drawn from the market a monther after Mrs. Krawczyk's death becaue of doubts about its safety. 
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved the sale of Oraflex on April 19, but as the pumber ofdeaths among Oraflex users mounted in the United States and Great Bri­tain, the FDA took a second look. 
The drug has reportedly been linked to 61 deaths in the United Kingdom, and at least 15 deaths in this country. 
Lillv withdrew Oraflex from the market Aug. 4, after Bri­tish health officials suspended sales. 
The Public Citizen's Health Research Group has urged the federal government to prose­cute Lilly for allegedly with­holding evidence of adverse reaction to the drug. 
The controversial drug has triggered a flurry of lawsuits, including one filed by a Detroit man who contends Lilly was negligent in testing and mar­keting the drug. 
Spokesmen for Lilly have said the drug, used properly, was safe and effective. 
Krawczyk's attorney, Larry Gaitens, said the FDA alerted his client that Oraflex was apparently linked to his wife's death when it asked hime to participate in a study on the drug's toxicity. 
"He became concerned by the inquiries,'' said Gaitens. 
SPRING BREAK­

MAZATLAN, MEXICO 
March 11-18. 1983 

FROM CHICAGO $425.00 
PRICE INCLUDES:
* 
Roundtrip air transportation via Mexicana and American from Chicago

* 
Seven nights accommodations at one of the following: Playa Mazatlan, Costa

* 
de Oro, Oceano Palace, el Pescador

* 
Round trip Airport/Hotel Transfers** Mexican 10 pet. Hotel Tax Departure Tax

* 
Tour Escort 


NOTE: Pnces are based on quad occupancy rates for smgle. double. tnple or con­do unns available on request 
DEPOSIT: $50 00 per person depos1t due by JANUARY 28. 1982 
Rooms Will be as1gned by F1rst Source Travel unless depos1ts are submitted together 
Attn. Mary Rledle 

~source

FOR MORE 
Box 1602 
100 North Michigan St. South Bend. Indiana 46634 



-.Travel

INFO CALL: 
----~---~~~---------~------~­






Editorials 
Tuesday, December 14, 1982-page 6 
P.A.C.E. neglects role of coeducation 
''...although aware that th_e time of traflsition is an awkward ume, the committee nevertheless feels bound to recommed that all of us Notre Dame men and women--students, faculty, and administrators alike--d~­sign our attitudes and comments 10 accord with true human respect and concern for one another'' 
Report to Evaluate Coeducation Notre Dame Report #16 May 6, 1977 

Karen McCloskey 
Eastern Edge 
These words were written five years ago by a select committee evaluating the early stages of coedu­cation at Notre Dame. Now, eleven years after the admission of women undergraduates to the University, we have been presented with the 
P.A.C.E. report. This publication was the result of two years of painstaking research and discussion by persons from all areas of the Notre Dame community. It is comprised of a series of recommendations which will form a standard for University action for the next decade. 
Yet, it seems that P.A.C.E. has, in a sense, ignored the condition of coeducation at Notre Dame. This is not to deny the obvious merits of the report not to question the good intentions of those involved in prepar­ing it. It is important, however, to recognize the shortcomings of the document. 
A statement which is to project policy for the next ten years ought to mclude all facets of campus life. Of course, as Dr. Timothy O'Meara, provost of the University, is quick to point out, if all the specific problems were to be included, the report would be ''as thick as a telephone book.'' Neverth-eless, the issue of coeduca­tion is hardly a minor one. 
With the tenth year of male/female adm'ittance just completed, the com­mittee was offered a golden opportun­ity to evaluate the social conditions on campus and to suggest innovations to improve the situation. Instead, 
P.A.C.E. seems to shy away from the 
problem. The three areas thatP.A.C.E. does address concern social space, female f~culty, and a student ratio re-evalua­tiOn. 
In some ways, recognition of the need for a student center is an admission of the poor social climate currently found on campus. As the report itself states, the facilities present today ''were designed for a smaller, all-male undergraduate school; and the needs of a coeduca­tional undergraduate student body and of graduate students remain unsatisfied.'' 
But this poor social atmosphere is only the tip of the iceberg. It is an indication of a much greater tension which pervades relationships here at Notre Dame. 
The admissions ratio re-evaluation is expected to take place during the 1983/84 academic year. But, how will the findings of a future committee affect the situation which we face now? 
Let it suffice to say that recom­mendations in the past have gone largely unheeded. The report of May 6, 1977 suggested that ratio-control­led admissions be replaced by a system which offered equal access to all students. 
This more effective method, which was based on an idea of fairness, was to be made feasible by the introduc­tion of coed residences. 
Oddly enough, the question of coed 
dormitories  was  not  seriously  ad­ 
dressed  in  the  P.A.C.E.  delibera­ 
tions.  

Dr. Emil T. Hofman chaired the subcommittee which investi~ated alternate housing possibilities. According to Dr. Hofman, when the question of alternate housing was raised, there was sufficient negative response by both faculty and students alike to eliminate this consideration. 
The only issue which has been constructively recognized in both the 1977 and P.A.C.E. reports is the need for increasing the number of female faculty members. The importance of this matter should not be downplay­ed. To strengthen the ranks of qualified women professors would greatly normalize positive attitudes toward the coeducation at ND. 
Yet, P.A.C.E. leaves us with an abundance of problems. 
Nowhere in the report are our future ties with Saint Mary's College discussed. One can hardly consider coeducation at Notre Dame without including SMC in the analysis. 
Moreover, the report does not adequately deal with the status of women's athletics at the University. 
Notre Dame, the University which elevates the student-athlete cannot alienate this ideal from its female population. Certain standards gov­erning both non-varsity and varsity sports must be raised if we are to be consistent in our philosophy and discipline. 
We are in the process of converting a school which was all male for one hundred and thirty years into a place where both men and women can flourish. 
The evolution will not happen overnight but we cannot allow the process to falter. 
In a recent interview, Dr. O'Meara noted, "In terms of the attitudinal thing, this has got to come through education. And I don't mean educa­tion through lecturing. I mean the education of all of us through this evolution.'' 
The University must take the lead in this evolution and education. A moral statement is the least that can be expected in this situation. With a mere ten years behind us, there are undeniably points to be worked out. 
If Notre Dame wishes to continue calling itself a leading institution of higher learning and advocate of justice, it must face its own shortcom­ings. In the area of fostering equitable coeducation, the P.A.C.E. report fails. 


A final(s) plea 
''W htle the bombardment was knock­ing the trench to pieces at Fossalta, he lay very flat and sweated and prayed oh jesus christ get me out of here. Dear jesus please get me out. 
Christ please please please christ. If you 'II only keep me from getting kzlled I'll do anything you say. I believe in you and I 'II tell every one in the world that you are the only one that matters. '' 
Ernest Hemingway, 1'Chapter VII" 
Steve Pogue 
Guest Columnist 
The shelling stopped. The next day was cheerful and quiet. And the relieved soldier never told anyone about Jesus, Hemingway explains, not even the woman he slept with that night. 
I have found myself feeling sheep­ish around God after such foxhole prayers. It is like seeing a friend who has sacrificed and granted me a great favor: I feel appreciative but uncom­fortable in their presence. 
And what of God's feelings the morning after? Somehow I do not believe that it is God who is missing out in our bargaining. 
His will is not thwarted by unkept promises. He will not send thunder­bolts of vengeance for loans from heaven left unpaid. The loss in this whole affair is mine, not God's. 
For there is more to God than His ability to squeeze me through exams. He offers me not the dregs of life but the overflowing cup. Yet we content ourselves with far less. 
-I own a green Hoover Upright. It usually sits in my hall closet. But when my carpet gets too dusty or soiled, the Hoover Upright springs to life. When the mess is gone, it is returned to my closet and forgotten. 
Maybe we don't treat God as if He is a vacuum cleaner. But how much more is He to us? Perhaps He is like the Insurance agent we turn to for occasional counsel as well as for help in major accidents. 
The cup of life that God offers us cannot be found in emergency trips to a divine medicine cabinet. Such intermittent consideration of Him obscures a true picture; we may need to begin our own study of the Scriptures to discover a God over­looked. 
Finals are upon us, in more ways than one. But after the last exam book is closed and our suitcase distractedly lugged to the bus, there comes the realization that Christmas is waiting for us at home. And if we can survive the frenzied festivities, there will be time to consider the meaning of Christmas, of God Incar­nate: a God we might find to be bigger than we would believe. 
P.O. Box Q  
Creator of tBrian' responds to criticism behave as Brian and his friend do 10 course of daily Domer life. Dear Editor: compared the comic to a racial slur, I do not want to imply that theI am writing in response to the calling it a blatant display of prejud­the cartoon. Brian. is a baby, an Notre Dame Women's Caucus hasletter from the Notre Dame Women's ice ''disguised under old stereotypes obvious comic character. He by no means represents the average Notre over-reacted, because it is their dutyCaucus which was printed in The which are as harmful as the racial Dame male. Instead, Brian symbo­to make us more sensitive to issuesObserver on Thursday, December 9. ones." such as this one. As a cartoonist, IIn the letter, the Brian comic of As the artist and writer of The lizes the most immature and infantile November 15 was described as being Sa~a of Brian, I do not appreciate behaviours and attitudes which could look for issues and attitudes to drawn with the intent to degrade, be10g accused of holding such pre­be found on this campus. The satirize. Stereotypes are the easiest stereotype, and insult not only judices or purposely insulting any general population of Notre Dame is to ridicule. However, in the Novem­women but Notre Dame men as persons or group. The intent behind not embodied in Brian. The mind of ber 15 Brian, the outward negative well. According to the Women's that particular Brian was not to this six-month-old can be thought of images overwhelmed the ~nderlying Caucus the cartoon was meant to advocate harmful stereotypes, but to as a "tabula rasa." The whole criticism. This was my mistake. No convey 'the message that beautiful attack them. The exaggerated volup­concept behind Brian (when I am not insults were intended. women are merely sex objects, and tuous female figure is a mockery of going for cheap sight gags) is that his Notre Dame men are only after one the sex-object mentality. Further­personality formation is being gov­Richard Rosales thing, male pleasure. In stressing more, I did not intend to imply that erned by specific negative influences Cr~ator ofBnan their point, the Women's Caucus all Notre Dame men think and which are often encountered in the  

Editorial Board Department Managers
-~~er============ 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief..............................Michael Monk Business Manager ............. ...............Tony Aiello 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­
Managing Editor................Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller ......................... ...................Eric Schulz 
versity of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect 
ExecutitJe News Editor ..............David Dziedzic Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owen
the policies of the administration of eitlter institution. The news is reported as ac­
SMCExecutive Editor............Margaret Fosmoe Production Manager..................Maura Murphy
curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa 
·sports Edilor...................................Chris Needles Circulation Manager......................Mark Miotto
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict 
Editorials Editor ..............................Paul McGinn Systems Manager ...................... : .... Bruce Oakley
the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, 
Features Editor ...................................Tari Brown
and the free expression ofvaryingopinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Photo Editor ...................................Rachel Blount Founded November 3, 1966 
(219)239-5303 
•• 4 ,.,.•• -.., wt:r~e•-iiiiiiiiilli-iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii;.,am:z:a:::..B;;;:~;um.!>i;_·--iiiiii4£~-WIM,...r~~J:'-·JN~4iiZi i:du._Oiiwiii'-il'lcioosw-•~t~•iiiiniUa;.,,,,.•.;us;:;;;,_iiiiii_iRiiiiiiiiiiiijji;ii;;u;:_;;:;;j_;;;;:;;;;;__;;;;;iiiijiiiiiiii-iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii­
~S"OVVCA~S~E~-~~Tu~esday~,Dece~mber~14,1~982-p~age7 
A pawprint at Bethlehem 
Friday, December 17, is Darby O'Gill's third birthday. Thre~ years ago, Darby was a n~w-born pu~ m the season of the Savior's bmh. In the liturgy, the 0 Antiphons or Great Antiphons are recited from December 17 to 23 in~lusive ~t the Magnificat in Vespers, one bemg satd each day. "0 SApientia, 0 ~isdom," the Church sings on my dog's bmhday. "0 Radix Jesse, 0 Root of Jesse; 0 
Rev. Robett Gtiffin 
letters to a lonely god 
Clavis David, 0 Key of David,'' Catholics praise their Lord in the last days of Advent. To these exalted titles of worship, I add an antiphon addressing the humblest creature: ''0 Gilliam us Domini canis,'' signifying in Latin my little hound of heaven, trusting that the Lord will spare him one little 0 from a week full of O's antici~ating the Nativity. 
What do you gtve a dog that has everything? On his first birthday, wanting to give O'Gill a gift, I decided to take him to church with me on christmas Eve. It would be a fitting end to the birthday week, I thought, for me to bring him to join the company of those watching at the manger. One live little dog with a wet nose and a wagging tail, would be more beautiful than an altar full of statues of dumb beasts adoring the child, with painted eyes. 
I brought Darby, brushed, combed, and wearing a new red collar, to St. Francis of Assisi Church in Manhattan. Franciscans, following their founder, love animals more than anyone, I thought. Darby would behave himself in such a holy place, though I wasn't expecting a miracle. I didn't think he would flop down on his belly and bow his head as though he were praying. That was the kind of miracle I didn't expect. 
At the church door, a janitorial person, who also served as a bouncer to the winos, stepped in our way. ·'Sorry, father. No mutts allowed.'' 
I introduced myself as the University Chaplain at Notre Dame. I gave him my local address with its zip code, and showed him three major credit cards. Then I introduced the dog, using his Latin name, Darbatium (Secun­dus) Gilliam us. "It's his birthday," I explain­ed. ''I wanted him to see the baby Jesus at Christmas.'' 
"If his tags identified him as Cardinal Cooke," the janitor said self-righteously, "I'd tell you the same. No pets can come in." 
I considered saying that I was blind, and that Darby furnished me with eyes I could see with, but it seemed wrong to lie my way into a religious experience for my animal. 
"Come along, Sam," I said sadly. Sam is a nickname I ~ive him; it is short for "Samivelll, as Dtckens' Mr. Pickwick used to call his manservant, Samuel Weller. I entertain the fantasy that the two of us make a Pickwickian pair. When Darby waters the bushes, I can say: "Spray it again, Sam." 
We walked over to St. Patrick's, where a young priest protested our entrance into the cathedral. "It would upset the Cardinal," he said, in the tone of an experienced cleric who knew which side his boss is buttered on. ''If we made an exception for a Notre Dame dog, we 
would ha_ve to let in Park A venue dogs." Park 
AV<?nue 1s where the pampered pets of high 
soCtety come from. High society makes its own 
rules, even in cathedrals. 
''They are probably all Pomeranians, '' I 
a~gued, "and myu dog is a cock<?r spaniel. 11 I 
tned to make Pomeraman sound hke a different 
denomination. It might have worked if the 
priest hadn't been a Fordham grad. 
I was getting embarrassed. "Darby," I said, 
in apology, ''when I think of all the creatures 
that made their way to Bethlehem. The Magi 
probably travelled with a menagerie. Sheep 
dogs were certainly there, to keep the baby 
lambs from getting lost. The animals warmed 
the air with their breaths, to keep the mother 
and child from catching cold in the winter 
night.'' 

On the vigil of Christmas, as the time got 
holier and holier, we were turned away from 
some of the best churches in Manhattan. At St. 
Bartholomew's Episcopal, the Vicar said: "The 
choir is practising. Our soup kitchen is open for 
the street people. Some of them, poor souls, 
aren't very clean; but I guess there's nothing 
on them a dog could catch. You could have som 
of their coffee.'' 
It didn't seem worth the risk. We wanted to 
see Jesus, but I was in no mood to bring home 
lice, I thought there was a lesson here that 
Darby could use: "Compared to a wino's life, a 
dogs life isn't bad. You've never known the 
hardship of sleeping in the street.'' 
By eight thirty, after walking to the Village 
from midtown, I knew that the Christian houses 
of wor~hip were closed to a priest and his dog 
at Chnstmas. I even tried to talk my way into a 
synagogue to look at the Hanukkah lights. 
On Sixth Avenue, Crazy Eddie has an appliance shop, famous for hysterically adver­tising its low prices on television. Inside, I could see a manger scene set into a wall of Christmas trees. Edging through the door, I asked the clerk: '·Mind if I bring the dog in, to look around?" He hunched his shoulders in a shrug of New York indifference. Darby and I threaded our .":ay through last-_minure shop­pers. The Nattvtty figures were hfe-sized. The Lord Jesus, asleep on the hay, was wearing head phones. One of the Wise Men was offering him a transistor Sony. The angels heard on high were singing the Jingle Bell Rock. 
~hristmas, for Crazy Eddie, was ahuckster's holiday, grossly commerical. The reindeer had do.llar signs in their eyes. At least, I thought, they let us get near Bethlehem. We're as close as we're going to get to the mystery of the Birth. 
"Happy birthday, Darby O'Gill II I said. "Happy birthday, little Lord Jesus.''' 
The dog was making friendss with a dromedary from the East. ''Come on, 0 Sapient one," I said, tugging at his leash. "Let's go look for a star." 
On Friday, my Domini canis will be there. So far as I know, he hasn't seen the star yet, but he knows where the bargains are, if he wants ~o buy a Sony. He probably things Christmas ts another sales day at Crazie Eddie's. It's not easy,. in ~his materialistic age, to bring your f~vonre little creature to a holy place in the ctty, where he can leave a pawprint at Bethlehem. 
Chtistmas talk 
Let's talk C~ristmas. Unless you're a true scrooge, you must ~dmtt there are a lot of good things to say about Chnstmas. Most of us are Christians so we recognize it as the joyous celebration of the hirth of Chris~. But most ?f us are also good middle class Amencans, so Chnstmas also means flashing lights jingle bells, Santa Claus, brightly wrapped present~ and all that stuff. 
As parr of this Christmas hoopla, it is usually necessary to challenge the crowds in your local stores in that exciting annual contest known as Christmas shopping. If you find Christmas shoppin~ a completely bothersome task filled with pushy bargam-seekers and nasty sales people, you were probably pleased when you learned that exams extend until December 22 this year. This certainly should keep Christmas shopping off your mind until the last possible moment and will allow you to purch_ase all the gifts in a mere two-day span. How convement. 
Chtis FtQset 
features 

On the other hand, you may feel as though the Christmas season has been somehow shortened this year. Like all kids, I used to wait all year for Christmas which, of course, seemed to never come. Half of the fun of Christmas was the waiting, the hoping, and the construction of elaborate Christmas lists (usually edited by prudent parents). December would always be a month of intense anticipation but with an exam only three days before Christmas, that December anticipa­tion has been turned into the December dread. 
Watching Christmas TV specials has become a part of the modern American Christmas tradition. They never failed to get me in the Christmas spirit. I always cried when nobody like Charlie Brown's Christmas tree and I'll know that there is something wrong with me when I don't get scared by the Grinch anymore. But amidst the tests and papers and books and everything, I haven't even seen Rudolph or Frosty this year. 
Somehow Christmas just ain't the same when you won't even get to help decorate the tree because you won't be home until December 23 (Christmas Eve Eve as my ~rather Don and I used to call it). The height of the anticipation was reached on Christmas Eve and that was my favorite day. We didn't have a fireplace so our stockings were hung on our bookshelf (still with care, of course) and we never forgot to leave Santa a treat. We even left the front door open so he could get in. 
A note ofwarnz'ng here: any persons under the age of twelve should n?w skip to the final paragraph because senszttve matenal wtll be discussed. 
I'm not quite sure when I stopped believing in Santa Claus. ! guess I believed longer than most kids although I always wondered how he could fit all those toys in just one sleigh. My parents were really clever about convincing me that he existed. Bobby Peterson the kid next door who was two years older, told me tha~ he knew there was no Santa Claus because he snuck downstairs one year and saw his parents putting the presents under the tree. Mom and Dad were very upset when Don and I marched in and proudly recounted our new-found wisdom. They said that it was indeed sad that Bobby Peterson's parents had to cover for Santa because Bobby didn't believe (Santa only went where people believed). That story kept us going for a couple more years. 
There was also the year Don and I decided to snoop around the house and try to find our presents. The thing we really wanted was one of those big hockey games with the little metal men that moved and turned on the cardboard ice when you operated the knobbed sticks on the ends. Well sure enough, we uncovered one buried beneath some sheets of plywood in the garage. I suppose we must have been real brats because, once again, we went right in and told our parents about our discovery. Mom and Dad were somehow ready for this one too. They said' that, yes, they knew about the hockey game in the garage and that they were holding it for a charity which would give it away to a poor orphan on Christmas. We had tears in our eyes and lumps in our throats as they told us about the orphans. 
Well. ;, -e::F"llS as if I've been sidetracked a bit. I'm . Jt quit-.,utc hat these last two anec'dotf:S have to do with my complai that 1.:. :!ng exams • :· il tht '.2nd shortens the Christ,>·ta:. ~ .::ason. Proba~:.~iy nothing. But maybe it shows just how easy it is to get carried away about Christmas. I sure don't like finals but I love Christmas. So while you're cursing out the University for keeping you here so long, remember some of that anticipation and Christmas spirit that you're supposed to have this time of year. It just might help. Merry Christmas. 

I~~j)(),.tS~J3~~~~t~·E3~========~=======================T=u=e=sd=ay='=D=e=ce=m=b=er=1=4=.1=9=8=2=-p=a=ge=8
By The Ohsen•er 
... 49ers
SMC swimmers lose at Valpo 
The Saint Mary's swimming team opened its seas~:m by continued from page 9 is a great quarterback;he has catches.
losing at Valparaiso, 85-55. However, the Belles dtd get San Francisco Coach Bill great receivers, and they had a Through six games, thesome good news. Eight swimmers qualified for t.he 
Walch had predicted that his great dav," said Ronnie Lott, 49ers' defense has interceptedNAIA nationals to held later in the season. Co-captams defensive pass rushers would who intercepted seven passes ontv stx passes. recoveredAngie Michielutti and Nancy Lorenzini, and Teammates be able to put pressure on last season ro earn All-Pro rnree fumoles. and registeredGail Casey Cathy Murray, Rosey Whalen, Amy Studer, Fouts. Instead. they failed to cornerback honors as a ruoicie. etgnt quarterback sacks. In 16
Ellen Byr~e, and Anne Gaertner qualified in the 
produce a sack. Saturday, Lott dropped the regular season games last200-yard medley relay, the 500-yard freestyle, the The defensive unit, cheered ball on what could have been a year, the 49ers ahd 27 inter­200-yard individual medley, the 100-yard freestyle, the
I 
as loudly as the offense goal-line interception. That ceptions, 21 fumble recovenes100-yard backstroke, the 100-yard individual medley, through most of the 1981 was the closest the 49ers came and 36 sacks.
L 
the 200-yard freestyle relay, and the 100-yard breast championship season, heard to stealing a pss by Fouts, who The Atlanta Falcons, 4-2,stroke. Tomorrow Saint Mary's travels imo Michigan to lusty boos from the Candlestick complete 33 of 48 attempts. have scored 153 points thismeet Albion College. -The Observer crowd of 55,988. The 49ers "Thev never ·adjusted to season and will provid the 
have allowed 155 points, se­what I ~as doing," said Wes challenge tor the 49ers in a cond highest total in the NFL. Chandler, who went into the nationally televised game a ''We played hard, but Fours end zone for three scoring Candlestick next Sunday mght. 
I The Observer w11! accept c1ass1f1eds Mon­day through Fnday. 10 a.m to 4 30 p m However. class1f1eds to appear 1n the next 1ssue must be rece1ved by 3 p.m. the busmess day pnor to 1nsert1on All c1ass1f1eds must be prepaid. 
either 1n person or through the mau
~classifieds 
I 
RIDERS WANTED: MNPLS/ To Stanford 2NW, Wheels. P.S What about our dinner? STPL LEAVE 12/21 AM Murph, and Amigo: RETURN 1/11 LAIRD EDMAN FOR SALE Thanks for the best
li NOTICES I L-1_W_A_N_TE_D____. 
272-5419 bachelors party I ever had! The gifts were great. Mega-beers, FATHERPAUL~FATHER j Cash paid for your Text Books mega-smut, mega-DSB! It was PAUL:B. LAAW GOD~Hi
NEED RIDE NYC NJ AREA 
at Pandora's, 937 So. Bend FOR XMAS. CAN LEAVE by faculty member good to be off-base once more Rich!
Must sell 

Ave. before I get picked off. You
ANYTIME AFTER 12-18 Need ride to DENVER or going abroad -1978 Cutlass will all get paid back nextAFTER 11PM 284· 5338 anywhere around there. Want Saloon, small V-8, automatic, 
semester many
Stop in Fridays 3:00-6:00 for KAREN to leave Dec. 18. Cll Raili power, air, vinyl top & radial with spag SCOTIT-W A TTY DOO DOO 
Pandora's Happy Hour Big (pron. rily) 6947 tires. 32,000 miles, perfect dinners. YOU VELCRO HEAD YOU' COCKNOSE A SOCCER PLAYER WITH A
Discounts on New and Used condition, a real bargain for 
Books. 937 So. Bend Ave. $3800. Call 272-4925. Also, six GREAT 
SCOTTY WATTY DO DO: 21 YEARS OLD, AND NEVERlarge bookshelves for sale,
EASTERN PE~A. -§ride SZOOX SVCMSX EHQRS!! BEEN.
HELP! I NEED A RIDE TO PA cheap.
PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENT needed -Along l-80 east to VGN MDDCR GNS HAPPY BIRTI-IDAY QT!
FOR BREAK. CAN LEAVE 
Poconos for X-mas. Help me BGNBNKSD?!
WED. AFTER 4:00. CALL 
get there. Am able to leave KNUD, MIMI
MEG 7628 ITEM: Richard J. Traub ­12/22. Will share all expenses MOVING SALE: Sofa bed, 3 Campus MaleMary (Kai) Gallagher and (gas, driving)! Call Warren exc. or
mos. old, cond., $250 SUBJECT: His 21st Birthday
Kenneth (Innocenc) Schmitz do NOW at 1167!! Thanks. DETROIT AREA I want to go best offer. Call 277-3918. DENISE BASFORD, 
MERRY CHRISTMAS and Roses are Red
hereby make it known that they on a suburban plunge over 
defeated Claire Yang and break, but I need a ride. I can HAPPY NEW YEAR Chastity belts are locked­
Gerard McCarthy in the spon leave 12/21. Thank you Laurie MIKER. Forget al!Jou fmals 
8040 ° Go out an get CROCKEDof Racquetball on the elevench need ride co Johnston or Happy Birthday Richie!
day of December, in the year of Pittsburgh Pa. for break. Can S.B., 
Love You, LeM!rft: Michelle 

our Lord 15-82. The winners leave dec. 20. call Steph PERSONALS What will I do without you also declare chat a rematch is #6798. Will share usual. RIDERS wanted to MN Dec 22, over break?? Stay away from not in their best interest. 288-1917, Kim those boneheads from other states. I know you will, right?
PLEASE HELP! Need ride to Can't wait to see you on the
DC after 4pm 12/21 Maura Wendv Rice 
slopes you crazy cat! 
Need Round Trip Ride To WASHINGTON D.C. AREA · Connecticut For Christmas
x2244 Happy Birthday ' 
love, your one and only S.B. 
You've made n this-Big 20

LOST/FOUND Student desperately in NEED Break. Will Share Usual. 
Remember the sky's the limit­OF A RIDE HOME FOR 11-IE Please Call Dan At 6824 We own rhe world! GO FOR

HOLIDAYS!!! Please call Paul anytime. Dear secret admirer, The
RIDERS NEEDED TO NYC · JTI
at 1167. Can leave 12/20 daisies are dead, but myWESTCHESTER VIA RT. 80
A 14K gold Irish wedding ring or later. curiosity isn't. Thanks. (P.S.
LEAVING DEC. 22 CALL
(w/ hands, heart, and crown) Roses are now on sale.)
WOODY 277-0992 Friends,Lost it in the beginning of the I will remember you.
school year in the basemenc Dear Bob, Think of you,
bathroom of Holy Cross SMC. Riders needed to TWIN CITIES I know what I want to get JS:Unexpected surprises are Pray for you,
It is extremely sencimemal! If Need ride to Kansas City or Mon. Dec. 21Ca11Julie SMC-you for Christmas, I jsut don't the best kind!Let's keep it up. 
When another day is through,

found, please contact Rose -central Missouri on Dec. 18 or 4371 know what size. Do you want a As the song goes, "Only the I'll still be fnends with you.
284-4455 19. Will share usual. Call SMC small, medium, or large bear beginning''! DW Take kya of yourselves 
4094. hug? 
Love, Sue Flynn

Ride needed to Chicago Sat. 12 Laura Hey Toodles (alias Mary Mullaney) This one's for you! -K.K. .
LOST: 14K gold box chain 
bracelet at Sat. Ride neede to Chicago Sat. LEARN HOW TO 1YPE P.S. Merry Christmas! 
N.D. night 
DESPERATELY need a ride to 12-18-82 after 4 p.m. Mike MIOTIO!!!
(4th) at Grace or Morrissey. If Coletta Rose! Happy Birthday
DALLAS. Lase final the 21st. 8435. Dear Animal (M.Raab)
found please call Cindy 284-& many, many more to the
Will pay the usuals. Please call (do they really call you that??)
4351 best letter writer & cooket
Stacey at x4594. WISCONSIN bound? Need a JULIE HAPPY BIRTHDAY I'M Thank-you for che wonderful 
maker I know! See you soon.

ride to Appleton (preferably) or GLAD WE MET THIS YEAR evening. I could have danced God bless you. Love ya lots.
Milwaukee. Can Teave Dec. 18 YOU'RE A GREAT PERSON. 'till dawn.
Last Friday night a black Joanie.
NEED RIDERS TO MINNEA' after 4 p.m. Call Rick 1177. GOOD LUCH GETTING INTO A1mee
schwinn "beach cruiser" type POLIS AREA FOR XMAS. l LYONS. MAUREENbike was taken from behind the Will BE LEAVING MONDAYACC. If you have seen this bike AROUND 4 O'CLOCK. CAll
please call 8582. If it is To all Narrow-Minded N.D.
1534 BETWEEN II: 30 AND Need ride to Pittsburgh or Good luck on finals big balooka 
returned to Sorin porch no ·Males!!! (not to men 'cuz none
MIDNIGHT. 
D.C. or 19th.

questions will be asked. Ifl see Wash. on 18th and Timmy! of you qualify) Get a clue:
CaliJohn 117 Love, Poohead
you riding it, I will kill you. Contrary to popular belief, NED ONE RIDER TO ST. clothes do not make a person.
APEX ROCKS SENIOR BAR LOUIS. I Will BE LEAVING Whatever happened to O.P.'s,
ON DEC 15 FROM IOTIL 2 needed or a tight jeans, long hair and bare
WED. CALL 1534 BETWEEN Ride co Rochester Thanks for great time last
Can I PLEASE have my new 11:30 AND MIDNIGHT. chests? (There's no creativity
Binghamton, N.Y. or E. Pa. on Saturday.
black Calvin Klein down jacket tn preps) Have you no sense of
1-80 for Xmas. Wanda 7770. Sincerely,
back? -I'm freezing!! It was aesthetics? What is worse than
The Bishop of Riesling 
last seen at South Dining hall Hey BLUE Eyes! Happy the clothes is the attitude last Thurs. (12/9). Please call NEEDED: RIDE TO CINCIN1 GOLDEN B-day. For one day hiding behind them' Don't x2858 if you have any know­NATI ON Need ride to St. Louis. Can only: Clnd over Chi, I won't at your fellow dom~rs
WEDNESDAY laugh
leave 12-20. Laura 4432.
l~dge of irs whereabouts. (DEC. 22)-CALL SUE# 1759 take credit for anything, and I who exhibit more onginahrywill be thankful for All you 
I LOVE YOU LUCKY! 
and caste than you. And quitSigned, WIBBYme. a

are to (For you R ragging on N.D. women -someHelp! I need a ride to Cleve­
NOITCEIFER of me) U:J.T's · of us do know how to have fun! 
land (or Exit SA on Ohio
Lost: A gold ladies Seiko watch Smiling Face. ILU. 
Turnpike) on Wed., Dec. 22,with a black leather band. Lose after 4 p.m. Will sharebetwen D1 lot and Dillon, NEED RIDE TO CINTI. FOR 
expenses. Call Joanie at 2244. Hey all of you G.Q. people of mr. . doodge man · Jane fondaFriday Dec. 10. If found please XMAS. Can leave TUES(21st) 3N REGINA "Do you here the bernstein just wants you to
call Moira at #5055 (SMC) Dearest Tim, 
afternoon. Terry 6714 bells of Christmas?" Beware of. know that even a busy investi­the ancient Domer proverb gative reporter can tind theIt has truly been a pleasure 
meeting you and being in a
I NEED A RIDER TO SAINT "We don't ge mad we get time to fall m love .. the mistle­
semester of Art Trads with 
LOUIS SO BADLY 11-IAT I AM even.'' FROHLICHE toe in st. louis doesn't compare
you. Everything we said was in 
PITISBURGHERS: RIDERS WilliNG TO CHARGE ONLY WEINACHTEN. to the stuff in suburban
jest of course · well, almost
needed evening of Dec. 18!! $5 (c'mon, you can't even buy elkhart ... wrestle hard and keep
everything! True, next
I.__I_FO_R_R_EN_T____. Call Jim at 8921!! a six-pack at Corby's for that) up the daily swimming habit,
semester will not be qu1te as 
If you love th~_dOille SO much STili TilEY RIDE ok? ... rhey s'ay the best view of
encenaining, but don't forget
that you want to stay till the our reunion two years from 'Actually, still they -er, I -the golden dome is in the rear now!! Kurisumas omedetoo
PORNOGRAPHIC MATERIAL last possible minute, then you need a ride ... home for break. view mirror ... not th1s ume, 2 BR furmshed apt. for rem in AND PARAPHERNALIA FOR can be my rider. If the Regis­gozaimasu MERRY Off to the Philly area or though ... rhe best view in the graduate budding of ND Av~. SALE. Great prices, discount trar decided to schedule for the CHRISTMAS!! anywhere resembling (or near) world is you eyes by Apes $360 plus electric. Can rates. Sale starts after xmas if I last P.ossible final on the last ME and ME such place I can leave next candlelight... chis is mushy, move in before Christmas. make it home to JERSEY to poss1ble day, you're just like week. If you have room call kinda strage for a Jane fonda 
I 
Large enough for four people. pick up hardware. Can leave me. WIU LEAVE THURS. Tim at 288-1822 or leave a rype. but, chen agam ... who Call Nad1a or Madeleme after after 4 on 21st or on the 22nd. DEC. 23 AT 10 A.M. Call message at the Observer cares, right? bye baby, see ya II at 287-4644. Call Mad Mark at 1725 Diane at 7983. LOVE' J CUBED (239-5313). for a new year1 
Weekend basketball 
Belles lose after 94-point victory 
By DAVE IRWIN 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's won its last two games by the combined margin of 1)0 points, but the Belles wish they could have saved three of those points for last night's basketball contest with host University of Michigan­Dearborn. 
If the Belles had three points to spare they would have been able to overtake Michigan in the closing seconds; instead Saint Mary's was saddled with its fourth loss in seven outings, suffering a 63-61 defeat. 
"We got beat because of the rebounding," said Saint Mary's coach Mike Rouse, even though the Belles outre­bounded Michigan, 38-36. 
The Belles played without the services of center Missy VanOrt, who is Saint Mary's top rebounder with an average of nine rebounds per game. VanOrt, who was the second leading scorer heading into last night's game with a 12.7 average, suffered a chipped bone rn her ankel in the second half of Saint Mary's 11)-21 victory over Saint Mary's of the Woods of Terre Haute Friday night. 
Saint Mary's trailed, 62-52, with about a minute and half remaining before the Belles went to work. Cindy Shortz's basket off a steal and two jumpers by Elaine Suess mixed in with a free throw and a jumper by Teresa McGinnis pulled the Belles within one at 62-61 with seven seconds re­maining. Michigan countered with a free throw and the best the Belles could do was a desperation half-court shot by Suess that was well off the mark. 
Trisha Nolan pace the Belles with 18 points and 14 re­bounds. Suess chipped in 1) and Betsy Ebert, starting in place of VanOrt, totaled 11 points and snared 10 rebounds. 
Saint Mary's trailed early, falling behind 19-9 after scor­ing just one basket in the first ten minutes. The Belles battled. back though, outpointing Mich­igan 14-4 to even the score at 
Faust's tactics lead ND to edge in Cincinnati 
CINCINNATI (AP)-Coaches agree that Notre Dame appears to hold an edge in recruiting Cincinnati's best high school players, thanks to Fighting Irish Coach Gerry Faust's con­nections with the area. 
Faust, the former Moeller High School coach, has 10 Cincinnati players on his active roster this year, the most of any college recruiting in the area. 
''I think Notre Dame has had great success, particularly at one school, in Cincinnati -Moeller High School,'' said Ohio Sate Coach Earle Bruce, who has six active Cincinnati players on his roster. 
Notre Dame's 10 players leads the pack of major col­leges that recruit in the area. Michigan has five active Cin­cinnati players, Indiana four, Kentucky three and Purdue two. 
Bruce considers the Cincin­nati area full of talent, even though he didn't sign a player from Cincinnati for the 1981 season. Ohio State got former Moeller offensive lineman Tim Doom and fomer Roger Bacon running back Jeff Cargile this 
. . . Loss 
continued from page 12 
Raila fikka and Sheila 
Roesler were the other first 
place finishers for the Irish, 
winning the 50-yard backstroke 
(:31.7) and the 500-yard free­
style (5:39.8), respectively. 
''Last year we got blown out of the pool by Cleveland State, bur this year we looked good,'' Stark commented. "If we would have won both relays (which the-Irish ~ost by half a sewnd each time), we would be talking about a wm." 
The women's record now stands at l-2. Their next meet will be against St. Mary's on ·an. 17. 
Both teams will spend part >f the Christmas vacation train­. ng in either Florida or Puerto Rico. 
year. 
"I think we might consider ourselves successful (in Cincin­nati recruiting), but we could be more successful,'' Bruce said. ''right not, in the last coupleof years, Cincinnati has been a very good area in the state of Ohio for good pros­pects.'' 
But Bruce admitted there's a perception that Ohio State has a recruiting problem in the area. 
"We're going to lose some people to Michtgan and Notre Dame, and Penn State and Pitt," Bruce said. "We can't take 'em all." 
Bruce said there was "no particular reason" why Ohio State didn't successfully recruit a Cincinnati player after the 1980 season, when six Cincinn­atians were named to the Parade Magazine all-America team. 
WE PAY EXTRA FOR EDUCATION .. IN MORE WAYS THAN ONF 
First, the college*education you hav already acquired can qualify you for advanced rank and pay. Just two ears of college can 8can a higher 
tarting salary.. 
*

econd, you (an accuoulate funds for ontinuing your college eaucation• up 
o $15,200 in two years or ~20,000 in hree or four years. 
Third, you "'ay have *your gu~ranteed tudent Loan or r:ational Dire· t Stu­'ent Loan forgiven at the rate of 3 1/3: or $1500 for each year of ctive duty. 
* 

rourth, you'll receive fully-paid 
Lraining in a field of your choice, 
and you can choose alDost ~nything 
from avionics r~pa.ir to X-ray tech­
niclan. 
* 

l~e al&o offer travel _,nd adventure i ,,:<::ition to roany other benefits, sue as 30 days vacation earned every yea \:e• re the U. 5. Amy. Find out hm< "' .-.ay fit into yot~r future plans. 
* 

--Call: Sgt. Ha~on 234-41'87 · . 
P.S • 
If vou are a senior or ornduate 
plcfmi,,g for your fut·Jr~. '.-Je have 
a lir..ltEd nu:1LC?r of cr~cr.ings for 
f,nl Officer Ccr.didate 5c!.r·ol. 
* 
23-23 at intermission. 
''Their press hurt us a little in the beginning," said Rouse of Saint Mary's sluggish start. 
Last Friday, Suess tallied 27 points to pace the Belles' record one-game output a­gainst Saint Mary's of the Woods, eclipsing the old stand­ard of 111 set against Bethel on December 4. McGinnis added 21, Nolan 14, VanOrt 13, Mary McQuillan 12 and Ebert 10. 
Saint Mary's totals read like a pro basketball game, as it canned ) 3 of 112 shots from the field, while holding the visitors to a 9-of-62 perfor­mance. The Belles controlled the-~oards, enjoying a 62-38 margm. 
Suess is the leading scorer heading into Christmas break with an average of 19 a game. Nolan replaces VanOrt as the second-leading scorer with an average of 13.3 McGinnis is near the 11.3 mark. 
As a team the Belles average 
77.6 points a game compared to the opponents' 58.3, giving the Belles a positive scoring margin of almost 20 points a game, even though Saint Mary's owns a 3-4 record. Although usually shorter than their opponents, the Belles outrebound them on an ave­rage of 38.4 to 31.7. 
Saint Mary's won't be action again until Jan. 15, when it takes on Lake Forest _College. 


Now2-4 

Montana, 49ers fallfrotn grace 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -The they lose once more in this acoustics in the tunnel leading abbreviated nine-game Nation­from the Candlestick Park field al Football League season, they amplified the cutting, candid almost certainly will fail to comment about the beaten San reach the playoffs. Francisco 49ers. ''I think some 5-4 teams will 
''These are the world cham­make it, and I hope were one of pions?'' was the remark, by a them," said running back Jeff player in a group of San Diego Moore, who caught one of Joe Chargers' heading for the loc­Montana's three touchdown kerroom after Saturday's 41-37 passes against the Chargers. victory over the Super Bowl The 49ers totaled 465 yards, champions. including 356 passing by 
The 49ers are 2-4, and if Montana, who leads National Football League quarterbacks in passing yardage, with 1,983, and touchdown passes, with 

14. They came out of the weekend as the highest scoring team, with 1)6 roints, in the National Footbal Conference. 
But Montana was outdueled Saturday by Dan Fouts, who threw for 450 years and five touchdowns. The Chargers to­taled 544 yards. 
See 49ERS, page 8 

...._ 
f 
The Observer Tuesday, December 14, 1982-page 10 

.-
Oshoe OGarfield 
town
1 
CheckOHE-
Deposit ballot in one of the official boxes in Lafortune. LeMons. or the dining halls. This vote will determine which strip will replace Doonesbury next semester. 
• L----------------------------­
-~-----·~ -­
Ihe~r======================================== 
T0 d~x=============T=u=e=s=da=y='=D=e=ce=m=b=e=r=l=4=,1=9=8=2=-=p=ag=e=l=l 
Doonesbury 

Simon 
Fate 
ITS c.ooo To H~.'IE YOU I-lOME ~OR CHII..l~T~S 
~~~All.. 

Garry Trudeau 


Jeb Cashin 
, Campus 
12:10 p.m. ART NOONTALK, "Mic­haelangelo Scultore," Dr. Charles Rosenberg, Annenberg Auditorium 
12:30 p.m. CONCERT, St. Mary's College Wind Ensemble Christmas Concert, Reinbeaux Room, LeMans Halls 
2:30 p.m. SEMINAR, "Constrained Multibody System Dynamics and Appli­
cations," Dr. James W. Fitzpatrick  Kamman,  356  
4:15 p.m. LECTURE, Development: Myths, Results," Prof. Peter  "Grass Roots Values and Bell, Library  

Lounge 

7,9 & 11 p.m. FILM, "The Birds," Sponsored by Student Union, .Chautau­qua Coffeehouse 
7 p.m. Meeting of students interested in Rome Program for next academic school year, Regina Auditorium 
8 p.m. FILM, "Fourteen Hours," Engineering Auditorium 
10 p.m. Speaking of Sports, Will Hare, WSND-AM 64 

The saga of a
B •

rtan 6 month old domer. 


)tlJL..iU.Rf CAlli PACK IT AWAY, SON. 
Photius 
SON, AINT" yOu. 4Gr 
BowL ~AMf OR SOHE'fHINq ElSE 1o ei!O IO ? 

beauty, detective
The Daily Crossword for short 27 Chess 5 Words of master understand· 30 Evil signs ing 31 Part 
9 Alphabet 32 Rasp run 33 Whip 
36 About 14 Bible song 37 State with 15 Breathing emphasis 
sound 38 Rent again 16 Halts 39 Pen 19 Dutch 40 Dry 
commune 41 Large 20 Rabbit bundles 21 Literary 42 Cipher 
device 43 Cereal 22 --en-scene 44 Bold 23 British 46 English 
gun composer
Monday's Answer 


R I S E R.D AC E E G G S OMEGARN lARKS A T A N I N 0 A R E A 
AMIDST T~R IGET 
AJR S E M A N A T E IC A P Ali Y•o M E N­
fA R R A K R E 8 iU S. T E D 
D I 0 R CIA MUIS AURA LS A D • C 0 ID Etf.rG A I N _, 0 0 'I'M 0 T E N s E
P A G E 8 0 Y 
A L I S S A M D A N U 8 E 
S L 0 E S L A T R A L E S 
T 0 U R A T L I T I N E S 
E R S T L A I C E L A T E 
12/14/82 

ACROSS 24 Love 1 Egyptian 26 Fictional 
47 Irritant 24 Catkin for a 25 Loving term princess 26 Choral 
50 Pour composition 53 Alms box 27 Statement 54 Follows of owner· 
closely ship 55 Jai-28 Bitter 56 Rind drugs 57 Secure 29 Departed 58 Fountain 30 Sashes 
drink 31 Kind of show 
DOWN 32 Gas and 1 Deal (with) coal 2 Honor 34 Certain 3 Feminine workers 
suffix 35 Spoke with 4 Exclama· a flourish tions 40 Pear 5 River in 41 Wedding 
France announce· 6 Purpose ment 7 Actor 42 Waterway 
Wallach 43 Religious 8 Fill with garb rancor 44 Mere 9 Fi~ebug's 45 Paddy grain 
cnme 46 Like 10 German road 47 Chukker 11 Sate game 12 Study room 48 Zounds! 14 Aspect 49 Part of the 17 Ardent globe 
desire 50 Seance 18 Mountain: sound 
comb. form 51 Chinese 22 -Carlo pagoda 23 Kind of 52 "-Kapi· 
energy tal" 
,-•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••~•••m••••••••••••••••••••••••' 
( The Notre Dame.Student Union pr~sents: 1,....··~~~,.., Student Union presents: \ 
: ~···· I 
1 Grace Kelly in her first film 1 
~ ~
1 l4·-HotJRs-· 1 
• I 
.................••••n•.... • ... u•n•••...•...•••••••u•--uaHIH• I
1 

I I I I 
: Altred Hitchcock's thriller 
1 
I 1~ THE BmDS 
1 
I I 
\....:~~~~ J~~~~~~~"~~o~~?.~~o~~ ~~~:m . . . $1l],R!J1 .~J1Ql'l~t~r!J191,\u!!lfir!~!JL, ,._, ~UrW ..,..cAJ • 
~·-~------------------------------------------~-------~·-*·--~ 
, 
r 
Tuesday, December 14, 1982-page 12
S12orts 

Irish icers s\Vept by OSU;no\V 4-12-0 
By STEVE LABATE Leask connected on a power Sports Wn.ter play, Brent Chapman tied the score at 1-1 when he skated the 
It was another lost weekend length of the ice and beat goalie for the Notre Dame hockey Dougan with a backhander to team as it dropped a pair of the stick side. A couple decisions t Ohio State by scores minutes later, Salem scored off of 6-3 and 6-5. The losses a Lucia feed to put the Irish up, dropped the Irish further into 2-1. the bottom of the CCHA stand­OSU's Tillotson beat fresh­ings as their record stands at man goalie Mickey Kapelle, 4-12-0, seven of those losses making his second start, to tie coming at home. the score at 13:45, but ND's 
Following a scoreless first Mark Doman made it 3-2 with a period Friday night, the Irish power play goal. Then with 13 took the lead on freshman Todd seconds left in the period, Dave Tormie's first goal in a Notre Kobryn, the Buckeyes' leading Dame uniform. After OSU's scorer, tallied off a beautiful Jamie Mac oro knotted the score pass from Teammate Andy with a rebound goal, Irish right Browne to give his team a 3-3 winger Paul Salem scored on a tie and, more importantly, the pretty feed from Dave Lucia. momentum going into the Salem's goal broke the tie, but locker room. Notre Dame goalie Bob McNamara stopped route to a 6-3 victory. The Bucks swept the in the next five minutes, Bruce Browne scored his 19th of the this point-blank shot by Ohio State's Kevin slumping In"sh 6-J, 6-5 this past weekend. Tillotson, Jamie Crap per, and season on the power play to Burden [10] Friday night, but the Buckeyes [Photo by Paul Czfarellt]Perry Pooley all beat ND give OSU a 4-3 lead entering beat the Insh netminder six other times en 
goaltender Bob McNamara to the third period, but ND' s give the Buckeyes a 4-2 advan­Salem tied it again early in the tage after two[eriods. third, a he beat goalie Bob In weekend meet 
In the thir period, OSU Krautsak from the right side. struck first, but Adam Parsons But Pooley's 13th and Ko­put a rebound wrist shot past bryn's 9th goals gave OSU a 6-4 
ND wrestlers go 2-1 ir1 Niles, lll. 
Buckeye goaltender John Dou­advantage, and although Chap­gan to pull the Irish within two man scored with a little over a at 5-3. But at 16:54, OSU's minute to go, ~D could not get By JEFF BLUMB of 6-0 as they prepared to face pounder, hadn't practiced all Andy Browne got his second the equalizer and suffered its Sports Wn.ter similarly undefeated North­wt:ek because he too was sick. goal of the period to put the third straight loss. western. Soon after the match He was ready to go on Satur­game away. "I can't believe it," said had started, it became evident day though, and he won 
After the game, Irish coach Smith after the game. "Oppor­Winning two while dropping that the Wildcats were the agaiinst Southwes~ern Missouri Lefty Smith was not at all tunity after opportunity, and we one, the Notre Dame wrestlers better squad, and they went and Marquette before losing to pleased with his team's per­couldn't put the puck in the net. raised their record to 6-1 last onto trounce the Irish, 44-2. his Northwestern opponent. formance. "It wasn't a good When we had to be there Saturday at a quadrangular Notre Dame's sole two Carnesale, at 158, did the 
.... night, " o;;aid Smith. "We offensively, we weren't. meet in Niles, Ill. points of the match came on same as Crown. "Louis was didn't work as hard as we "Plus, we made some serious The first of three Irish oppo-the strength of Phil Baty' s tie very aggressive," says Bruno. should have or have to. We defensive mistakes. Our defen­nents was Southwestern Mis-at 167. Baty, ahead in the Louis' brother John, a co­dido' t get a good backcheck out sive lapses really hurt." souri, which came in at 6-1-1. match until the last six captain at 177, remained out of the forwards, and our pass­Notre Dame will cake a few The Irish prevailed, narrowly, seconds, was turned over by with a back injury and had to ing was atrocious.'' days off now, and will resume 22-21. his opponent for the tie. be replaced by freshman Jeff 
The play of the team was a play Dec. 28 at the Great Lakes "The first match got us off "We were very happy to Shupe. far cry from the effort that Tournament in Detroit against to a good start because the beat the other two (teams) In assessing his team's per­earned the Irish a split with Michigan, Michigan State and competition was very heated," because they are very good," formance Saturday, Bruno re­Michigan State just a week Michigan Tech.$ said Notre Dame coach Brother said Bruno, ''but we had hoped mained optimistic. "We really earlier. "It wasn't ar all what I It was here that, last season, Joseph Bruno, C.S.C. ' to make a better showing had no idea how we were going expected," said Smith. "I the Irish played their best And that good start carnea against Northwestern. to fare, but did fairly well," really thought that we would be hockey and turned around what over into Notre Dame's second "Still it was a real bad week says Bruno. out an flying, and we weren't. was a subpar season to go on to match against Marquette. In for us with studies, tests, ''They (injuries) certainly
t 
We didn't hit, and we were the CCHA finals. that contest, the Irish whipped injuries, and the flu accumulat­didn't help us any. If we met standing around on defense." But there is little indication of their rivals from Milwaukee, iog. We were just hoping to Northwestern later in the sea­
, 
f On Saturday, the Irish palyed turning things around this year. 27-12. get through this meet." son, it may be a different better, but the result was the "We're going to be making At that point, the Irish Indeed, the Irish grapplers story.'' same. After Ohio State's Gary some changes," said Smith. grapplers _held a season record were bothered by injuries and Next up for the Irish is the 
========================================= sickness, as many top wrestlers Midlands Championships, Dec. 
either did not wrestle or 27 and 28, in Palatine, Ill. ThisDouble loss wrestled with some ailment. is an event where the coaches Co-captain Don Heintzelman send only the top five wrestlers 
was unable to wrestle only his on the team.
t Cleveland St. beats ND sUJimtners According to Bruno, the tof
first match at 142 before yield­
ing to John Hargreaves five include Fisher, Heintze ­By THERON ROBERTS week. Paul McGowan finished when they host Bowling Green because of the flu. man, Baty, and the brothers Sports Wn"ter second in both the one-meter on Friday, Jan. 21. Heavyweight Mike Golic won Carnesale. 
and three-meter diving events. The men's team record drop­his first match by forfeit but "We're thinking about hav­"We are in the best shape ped to 1-1. was unable to wrestle either of ing Fisher sit out a couple of The Notre Dame men's and and have the best times for this The Irish women had an his next two matches because weeks though," says Bruno. women's swimming teams end­point in the season,'' senior equally tough time with Cleve­of a thumb injury. The Irish, "We've tried the pamper it ed their 1982 segment of their co-captain McGowan said. land State, losing 85-63. having no replacement at approach all year (on his ankle seasons, losing · Saturday at ''However, they (the Vikings) Freshman Veonette Cochiolo heavywei~ht, were forced to injury), and it hasn't worked." Cleveland State. had some outstanding times.'' again turned in a sterling forfeit twtce. Should Fisher be relegated
The Irish men could -.manage. Notre Dame had some good performance for Notre Dame. Senior Mark Fisher also to the sidelines, Bruno admit­only three first-place finishes times as well. She established a new varsity wrestled, but was bothered by ted that he was at presentagainst the powerful Vikings. "We had 21 season-best record in the 200-yard breast­a season-long ankle injury as leaning toward replacing him 
Cleveland State won the meet, times on Saturday,'' said stroke, with a winning time of his 1-2 record for the day with Crown. 67-46. Stark, "and if there is such a 2:33.48. Cochiolo also shatter­shows. Fisher remains the Irish Dan Flynn, Glenn Battle and thing as looking good losing, ed the varsity record in the wins leader, holding a 12-4 The Irish coach hopes to 
freshman Blaise Harding regis­
we did it." 50-yard breaststroke, winning mark. have Fisher back to full tered individual firsts for Notre Also tallying individual se­the event with a time of :33.15. Right behind Fisher in wins strength when the squad re­Dame. Flynn won the 200-cond place finishes for the Irish She woo her third event of the is freshman John Krug at 190. turns home Jan. 13 for ayard butterfly with a time of were Bill Green in the 50-yard day, the 200-yard individual Krug now stands at 11-4-1 triangular meet with North 
1:58.96. Battle was victorious 
freestyle, Brian Casey in the medley, in 2:18.72. after he lost two and tied one Central Illinois and W estero in the 200-yard backstroke with 200-yard butterfly, and Blaise "Because it is still early in Saturday. "John was very dis­Illinois. 
a 2:03.02 clocking. Harding 
Harding in the 200-yard indiv­the season, I hope to do even appointed,'' says Bruno.
took first in the 200-yard 
idual medley. better as we get towards the The two bri~ht spots of the But first the Midlandsbreaststroke in 2:16.24. 
"Blaise is doing a good end of the season,'' Cochiolo day for the Insh came in the Championships, two triangularSophomore Tim Bohdan job,". said Stark, "and I lo<?k said. "I didn't swim in high persons of Eric Crown and meets (at Carthage and St.
placed second in the 500-and for htm to get faster later this school because we didn't have Louis Carne sale, who each won John's, Minn., on Jan. 3, and
100-yard freestyle events. 
year.'' a team, but I swam on the two and lost one. at Chicago and Carroll on Jan.
''Bohdao is doing well for us as 
The Irish men will have to competitive circuit. ''Even in their one loss, they 5), and a tournament (Oliveta distance freestyle swimmer," 
wait six weeks before they "I think being a part of a both looked good,'' commented Invitational on Jan. 8), all on
Coach Dennis Stark said. 
have a chance to get back into team is pretty run.'' Bruno. the road, are in line for theBohdan had broken the 100­
the win column. Their first Crown, a freshman 18-Irish over Christmas Break.
• yard freestyle record just last meet of the new year comes See LOSS, page 9 
L_ 



