--------~------------------------~--­
,Business & Technology-page 5 
' ' 


By MARK ROLFES Fr. Daniel Cipar, assistant rector at difficult job that "cannot be done by StuffReporter Keenan. Cipar agrees that there is (just) anybody," according to frustration in dealing with the ad­Noone. Fr. Richard Conyers, Keenan Hall ministration, and suggested that Fr. John Wolvlcar, Vice-President rector for the past nine years, offi­they may have lost contact with stu· of Student Affairs, said he had no l'ially submitted his resignation yes· dent life. "Ifthis is so, then we need a forewarning of Conyers' resignation terday at a Student Affairs meeting. change to people who arc more in and was "quite surprised" to see the 
lie was dissatisticd, however, with touch." announcement in The Obsen,er. tht· mannt·r that the announcement Referring to the alleged Hesburgh Responding to Conyers' comments ht·<:ame public and wishes to clarify quote, "... anyone can be a rector, that the administration was out of his rt·asons ti>r resigning. Fr. Conyers and it only takes two hours a day to touch with student life, Fr. Van 
run a dorm" (a line Hesburgh denies
feels that The Obsen•er story on Feb. Wolvlcar merely replied, "That's his .2 wa.o; unfair and misleading in that it having said), Cipar and Fr. David opinion." When asked if he felt he gave the impression that he was fed Noone, Grace Hall Rector both say was in touch with the typical Notre up with constant fighting with the that being a rector is more than a Dame student, he replied, "I feel I administration and students and is full-time job. Both cited the at· am. No one has been turned away "throwing in the towel" hy resign· tempts to make the dorm a home, from this office. I also meet with hall 
community, and parish all in one is a and student groups."
in~o:­
"The primary reason I'm leaving is to tin ish my Ph. D. (in architecture)," Conyers said. He said that he has a limited amount of time to write his 
Committee to study 
dissertation and that he must take the year off to write it if he ever wants to obtain the degree. 
Student Affairs Office 
The letter posted in the dorm was a private letter to the residents of By K.ELLI FLINT Notre Dame.
Keenan Hall and was to be taken 
Executive News Editor The committee will talk to stu­strictly in the context of the dorm, 
dents, faculty and the Provost's

acn>rding to Conyers. He added that An ad hoc committee to evaluate Office, "three major areas of con­
it wa.~ not meant to be an open letter 
the Student Affairs office and make cern when dealing with theto the university at large, but rather a recommendations "to that very academic nature of the school," inpersonal letter to express his office" was appointed at last night's order to "draw an objective, un­feelings to Keenan residents. 
Student Senate meeting, and will be biased view of teaching at Notre"I love Keenan Hall, and I love formally charged at its next meeting. Dame," Murday said. 
being a rector," Conyers continued. 
The committee will address "all Donald Hahn, Chairman of the"We at Keenan do the best we can areas ofconcern" in Student Affairs, Student Affairs Committee of theand I have a lot of pride that the from Psychological Services to Faculty Senate, will write a 'cover

dorm is moving in the direction we Security to administration in the Stu·
want it to." 
See COMMITTEE, page 3

dent Affairs office itself, according toConyers admitted he has had his Student Body President Don Mur­
differences with the administration and that he has been outspoken, but day. He added that the committee Financial aid cuts ?
will also talk to students and rectors.
feels that he believes that criticism is Committee members include
a healthy way of discussing Keenan Hall President Paul Cal·
problems and accomplishing goals. 
Reaganomics aim at colleges
lahan, Student Senator Brian Callag­"The administration doesn't really han, and Carroll Hall President Mikeknow what's going on in the hall. 
There's no way they can see it as McAuliffe. By BOB VONDERHEIDE dent financial aid. ROTC or athletic scholarships. well as a rector... They care only for The Academic Committee, News Assistant But now Notre Dame has to deal "University money" coming from basic order and compliance. They formed last semester, submitted a with Ronald Reagan. As a result, the Notre Dame endowment or gifts 
show little understanding of the im· faculty survey to the Executive What the Notre Dame Financial director of financial aid Joe Russo provides only 22 percent of the as­portance of dorm life in overall stu· Committee of the Faculty Senate Aid Office needs now is another shakes his head when he looks ahead sistance given, and much of the Uni­dent life." Tuesday. The survey involves the Frances Dailey. More than a decade to next year's financial aid budget. versity money, like the Dailey "Fr. Conyers has a way ofcreating taculty response to the promotion ago, she left Notre Dame an $8 mil­"We don't know how bad the endowment, funds the Notre Dame a special sense of community," said process and quality of teaching at lion endowment earmarked for stu· situation will be," he said last week. Scholar Program. The program an­The federal Department of Educa­nually awards a renewable scholar­tion, whose programs supply 58 per­ship to about 3'\0 incoming
1over-awarded' cent of the assistance given to Notre freshmen. While Undergraduate Ad· Dame students, has yet to allocate a missions selects the students, Finan­definite amount for its 1982-83 as­cial Aid determines the amount of sistance programs. Proposals run­the award. if any. 
Scholarship cuts student loan 
ning around Washington these days But Russo docs not expect Uni· 
include cuts up to 30 or 60 percent versity money to decrease at all. In By ED KONRADY versity. Mr Russo's original letter, with copies to the state agency in with some programs zeroed out fact, "the reduction in federal assis· and VIC SCIULLI informing me that I was to receive charge of the loans and to the stu­completely. Consequently, Russo tancc will result in a stronger case 
Neu•sStuff no University aid, came before that dent. has found planning ahead "a chal­for scholarship support," Russo said. office was aware that I had won the lt:nge." And scholarship support will con· Guaranteed student loans can be scholarship. This leads me to believe The number of studentsthat have tinue to be a high priority in the rt·duced if there is a change in the that the only criterion used in been in this situation has increased, 
"Campaign for Notre Dame." student's financial situation. The Ob· examining my file was my father's according to Russo, "but only in the The Guaranteed Student Loan 
senJer has learned of one student in gross income. Even though my same proportion as the volume of Program, supported by the federal this situation, freshman Ed Sheeran. father submitted written proofofin· students we're dealing with in the government, faces a more grim Sheeran, a resident of Fisher Hall, ability to pay, the University chose program. future. Presently, more than half of 
received a guaranteed student loan to ignore it. I believe that this matter the undergraduates have a GSL for of 52'\00. He is one of six depen­is important not only for me, but also "In other words, four or five years ''I'm not predicting dtsaster," he an average loan of $2,300. dents and his father is "six figures in ti:>r other students who have not ago we were processing 2,000· said. "We will survive, but we won't "The GSL is by far the largest 
debt," according to Sheeran. been so fortunate." 3,000 loans, which is about S5-6 mil­be able to solve every problem." single source ofaid at Notre Dame," 
At the beginning of this semester, Joseph Russo, director of the lion, which is a lot ofmoney and a lot The Reagan Administration has Russo said, .. And that's common for ht· received a letter from the finan­financial aid office, said, "We arc re· of loans to process -but last sum­recently begun a "media blitz" to private schools." cial aid office saying he had been quircd by federal law to report any mer we processed over '\,000 loans, convince Congress and the But GSL program, meet Ronald 
"over-awarded." The change in change in a student's financial situa­for about S 12-13 million dollars. American nation that student assis· Reagan. Tht.· Chicago Tribune Sht·eran's tinancial situation was an tion. The total amount of aid is not That volume reflects the needs of tance must be cut in order to save reported Tusday that Reagan might Army ROTC scholarship awarding allowed to exceed the total budget the students." democracy. Naturally, the American boost the GSL interest to market 
him full tuition. free books and S I 00 that a student needs for that semes­Council for Education is organizing levels, now close to 19 percent. a month allowance. ter. We try to be fair in our assess­Sheeran said the letter claimed he its own lobbying eff'orts. Loans before 1981 were seven per­Sheeran told The Obsen,er, "What ment for financial aid, taking into was overawarded S670, but so far, Russo's office oversees almost cent. bothers me most is their (the Finan­account special situations. But we no attempt has been made to every type of tinancial aid program Reagan came into office thinking a cial Aid office's) insensitivity to have to follow the law." retrieve the money. Sheeran fears, available to undergraduate students millionare's son should not be able other financial aid sources. Tht· however, that next year he will not here. That includes student loans. to to get a $2,'\00 low-interest loan Financial Aid Office is penalizing me The Financial Aid Office reports be ablt: to get a guaranteed student university ~chularships, federal for receiving aid outside of the Uni-the change in a letter to the lt:nder, loan. grants, and employment, but not See FOCUS, page 6 

r 
' 
NewsBrieb 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
Egyptian PresidentHosni Mubarak declared his sup­port yesterday for Palestinian self-determination and urged Presi­dent Reagan "to make it a living reality." In his debut here as Anwar Sadat's successor, Mubarak studiously avoided a direct reference to the 1978 Camp David agreements, which Israel insists are the only basis for settling the Palestinian dispute. But meeting privately in the Oval Office, the two leaders reaffirmed a commitment to the accords "as the appropriate and only vehicle for addressing the Palestinian problem," a senior U.S. official said. The three Camp David partners, including the United States, Egypt and Israel, have pledged to try to accelerate the currently stalemated negotiations over the Pales­tinians' future, said the official, who declined to be identified. Mubarak also told reporters the Soviet technicians that he invited back to Egypt last week will be gone again within a year. The late President Anwar Sadat expelled 700 Soviet technicians from Egypt in September, shortly before he was murdered. -AP 
The Salvadoran army has asked the United Nations Human Rights Commission to send a delegation to a small northern town in which it claims leftist guerrillas massacred more than 150 civilians, a spokesman said yesterday. The spokesman, who asked noi: to be identified, said the death toll at Nueva Trinidad near the Honduran border was between 150 and 200. "The communist at­tackers dedicated themselves to killing, to butchery, to exterminat­ing the population, and they killed children, women and men ­even animals," he said. The military, too, has been accused of brutality recently. There were unconfirmed reports that govern­ment troops massacred as many as 1,000 civilians during a Decem· ber offensive in Morazan province, long considered a guerrilla stronghold. Guerrillas invited reporters from U.S. newspapers to view the areas. The reporters said bodies had been left out in the 
open for days, apparently so they could be shown to the reporters. 
Leftist groups linked as the Farabundo Marti National liberation 
Front are trying to overthrow the junta led by President Jose 
Napoleon Duarte. -AP 
Gen.james L.Dozierreturned home yesterday after 42 days as a captive ofterrorists, his arrival made more dramatic by a once-aborted landing of the plane bringing him back. With Vice President George Bush and other dignitaries looking on, the Air Force C-141 Starlifter broke out of clouds at 203 feet, banked first right, then left, and roared aloft again. On his second approach a few minutes later, the pilot made a perfect landing. An Air Force spokes­man said the plane was never in danger and Dozier made no mention ofthe incident in his brief remarks. "It's doggone good to be home," he said. Lt. Col. Robert Thatcher, a public information officer at Andrews Air Force Base, said the huge transport was 75 to I00 feet from the ground, between two parallel runways, when it pulled up again. "The aircraft commander reported he was having a slight problem with his instrument landing system and he realized he wasn't lined up on the runway he wanted to be," Thatcher said. "As he attempted to correct, he decided he wasn't going to force the landing down, so he went around. He had plenty'of power." Bush, the first in line to greet Dozier and his wife,Judith, said, "I don't think there are any ribbons for valor in the face ofkidnapping, but if there were one, someone would be pinning it on him today. -2AP 
The gift China which Nancy Reagan says was so "badly, badly needed" at the White House was unveiled at a state dinner yesterday, seven months after it was ordered, at cost, for 5209,508. In an unusual gesture, obviously reflecting some sensitivity over the matter, the first the first lady's press office put out a chart showing the cost in 1981 dollars ofdishes purchased in the administrations of Franklin Delano Roosevelt, Harry Truman and Lyndon Baines Johnson. The message: they did not settle for grocery-store specials, either. Mrs. Reagan, who selected the china personally, was pronounced pleased with her efforts. "Isn't it pretty?" press secretary Sheila Tate quoted Mrs. Reagan as saying. The ivory china with a red and gold border was placed on round tables in the State Dining Room hours before some 120 guests arrived for the black-tie dinner honoring President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt. The dinner guests included Mr. and Mrs. Robert Vojvoda ofSt. Michael's, Md. He is the president ofthe non-profit Knapp Foundation, which donated the money to purchase the china. The 4,372 piece set-an average S48 per piece -had arrived at the White House by truck from the Lenox China, Inc., plant in Pomona, N.J., just this week. Lenox sold the china at cost. -AP 
About 760 officials, six of them provincial gover­nors, have been fired since the Dec. 13 martial law crackdown, the official Polish news agency PAP said yesterday. At the same time, ~he government newspaper Republic blamed student activists for last Saturday's riots in Gdansk and said they wanted "a change in the political system in Poland." A radio Warsaw broadcast monitored in Vienna said an army general had been named governor of Gdansk province following the riots, the most serious violent challenge to the protestors in more than a month. The government also said U.S. economic sanctions against Poland threatened to destroy the na­tion's chicken market because American imp torts offeed corn had been cut off. PAP said the Polish officials fired included six provincial governors, 14 deputy governors and 160 mayors or local leaders. The agency did not elaborate, but many officials have been replaced by military officers under the government's campaign to purge and blacklist people who are suspected ofdisloyalty to the Communist 
Party and the state. -AP 
Partly cloudy todayand cloudy with a slight chance of flurries in the morning. High in the mid to upper teens. Cloudy and cold tonight with a chance for snow after midnight. Low 3 to 8 above. Snow on Friday. High in the upper teens to low twenties. ­
AP 
Thursday, February 4, 1982-page 2 
A section for the future 
Today's issue marks an important milestone in the development of The Obsetver. When you picked up this copy, you probably didn't notice anything different about the copy, style, or appearance of the newspaper, but there is one important item that is different. When you turn to page five, the change should be apparent. Today marks the inaugaration ofthe Business and Tech­nology section. 
We have been working on the B & T section for several months now, adjusting, refining, and developing the concept. The cpntent and graphics of page five are 
the result. All that said, the question remains: "Why a section devoted to business and technology, and why start it now?" 
The answer to that question has constantly in­fluenced the development of the B & T concept from day one. First, we feel that the two broad areas of busi­ness and technology currently receive dispropor­tionately little coverage in The Obsetver. Two considerations make this dearth ofcopy on the subjects particularly unnerving on this campus: the substantial and growing amount of significant technical research being performed in the laboratories and classrooms at Notre Dame, and the dramatic changes that are occur­ring in the business world that to a large extent will be influencing our lifestyle in the months and years ahead. 
Although this traditional lack of coverage was one of the prime considerations in developing the business and technology concept, the prime consideration in this matter, as in all matters, is the desire to serve the stu­dent body and all portions of The Obsetver's readership 

market  with  the  most  
relevant  and  useful  copy  
possible.  Although  major  

emphasis will always be placed on coverage of tradi­tional news and sports events as well as on our continuing committment to improving the features and editorial page areas ofThe Obsetver, we feel that ap­propriate measures must be taken h1 keep up to date with our rapidly changing world. :'olewspapers have a responsibility to their readers -and to their own well being -to keep in touch with the changing informa­tion needs and backgrounds of their readership. The lessons about keeping the reader satisfied so dramati­cally illustrated in the recent collapse ofThe Philadel­phiaBulletin and The Wshington Star have not been lost on the administration ofthis paper. 
Consider, for example, the growth of the Colleges of Business Administration, Science and Engineering. Al­though the College of Arts and Letters retains the lar­gest enrollment with 1,794 students, the business school is closing the gap. With 1,413 students, it now has the second largest enrollment. The College of Engineering, with 1,287 students, and the College of Science, with 898 undergraduates, follow closely be­hind. Together, the latter three colleges comprise over 50 percent of the undergraduate population, and until 



r:If~f~~F~~iEEE;r;:ffffN#&~~~~~d~, 
I 
GEN. ROBERT E. HUYSER 
Design Editor ....................... Monica Gugle 
'

-advisor to 5 presidents 
Design Assistants .......... Mike McCaughey 
'· 

B&T Layout Staff. No Doz Ver Berkmocs 
"' -former deputy to Alexander Haig 
Typesetter ........................................ AI Novas News Assistant ............... Margaret Fosmoe Copy Editors ....joe Musumeci, Tim Neely Sports Copy Editor .............. Chris Needles Typists........jeanine HynesJoe Musumeci ND Day Editor ......... Randall L Goskowitz Ad Design ..........john & The Usual Group 
r:;;;~~E~t~;::::J
Photographer .............................. Tonia Hap 
Guest Appearances Amy Lauden, Preggo julie, Max, joe Rod, The Phone, No Pop Tans, Missing Senior Bar 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) 1s 

today, there has been no concerted effort to target copy of special interest to this large segment of the popula­tion. The technical fields of business and science are also strong and growing at Saint Mary's. All told, we believe that the effective lack ofcoverage ofeconomic developments and scientific research ofspecial interest to this large market segment should be rectified. Thus, the Business and Technology section. 
More now on the content ofthe section. It will focus primarily on two areas ofcoverage: updates on activity in finance and economics; and more in-depth material investigating the progress and achievements in engineering-related and science-related research being conducted on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. Graphically, brief stories will run at a two­
column width down the outside edge of the page. Usually they will consist of national and international news relating to business and technological subjects. Short notes of interest on campus may also run here. In the three remaining columns, one or two topics will be discussed in detail. Today, for example, an in­triguing insight into the im· pressive post-graduation job placement of Notre Dame accounting majors will be presented as well as a look at the progress of the United States space shuttle program and the anticipated military applications for the shuttle 

Ryan Ver Berkmoes, a four-year veteran ofObsetver editorial and production work, will edit the new sec· tion. Reaction from the administration and teaching staffs of the business, science, and engineering colleges has been enthusiastic; Ver Berkmoes has worked out committments from each college to provide support for the venture. 
The section will intially run only once per week. We plan to increase that to a twice-weekly run in the near future. Further development of the section will then await an appraisal of reader reaction to the concept. Our readers are the ultimate censor and judge of The Obsetver policies and content, and your sentiment will ultimately decide the value ofthis new section. We invite you, therefore, to turn to page five and decide for yourself. 
Budweiser Sppublished Monday through Fr1day and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacation penods The 
.75 cents Observer 1s published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary s Col· 
ed, Thurs & Fri 

lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by 
9till closing wn!lng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 
Authentic Irish Folk Singer
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduction 
Wed. and Fri. nights ' 
nghts are reserved Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 
IRISH 

Grape 

Campus 


The Observer .,_ Thursday, February 4, 1982 -page 3 
In Scholastic 
Ne-w editor expects quality 
Editor's note: The following is the fourth ofa five-part st>rles examin­ing the effects ofPresident Reagan's proposal to transfer federal programs to state control. AP writer Christopher Connell addresses the 
proposal's effects on education. 
WASHINGTON (AP) 
Educators arc fond of citing the 
original Northwest Ordinance ofthe 
I 780s, which set aside one-thirty­
sixth of that vast stretch of land for 
educational purposes. as the start of 
the federal commitment to educa­
tion in the United States. 
But the Constitution does not 
mention the word "education," and 
the history of the federal commit­
ment has been marked by fits and 
starts, ebhs and !lows. President 
Reagan's "new federalism" 
proposals would be only the latest 
turn. 
If Reagan succeeds in his "new federalism" plan, announced last week, to turn control of more than 40 federal programs over to· the states, the federal government would jettison responsibility for most education and training for its citizens. 
The Comprehensive Employment Training Act and its legacy of direct federal involvement in job programs for the poor would vanish. 
Moreover, Reagan would shift to the states virtually all education programs, except compensatory education for the poor and the hand­icapped; the Work Incentive Program, vocational rehahilitation, and vocational and adult education. 
The federal government still would provide loans and grants to college students, although Reagan is eking to cut them. 
The Carter and Reagan ad­ministrations already have taken deep whacks at CETA, particularly its full-time public service jobs. Labor Secretary Raymond Donovan says CET A failed to train the poor for productive jobs in private business, despite a federal investment of S53 billion over the past seven years. 
AFL-CIO president Lane Kirkland 
has denounced the proposed trans­
fer of job training responsibilities. 
The federal government pays only 
about 8 percent of the nation's total 
school bills, but it shoulders a larger 
share in the major cities, where 
public schools arc filled with poor 
children. 
When Reagan took office, the 
Department of Education was 
spending nearly S 1 5 billion. It has 
since been cut to S 12.9 billion and 
reportedly is targeted for only S I 0.6 
billion for fiscal 1983. Reagan wants 
the department abolished. 
On the campaign trail in 1980, 
Reagan blamed federal intervention 
for what he -and many education 
critics -viewed as a deterioration 
ofstandards in the schools. 
Willard McGuire, president of the 
1.7 million-member National Educa­tion Association, says Reagan's plan is "a blueprint for disaster." 
Reagan sought cuts of more than ·one-third In virtually all federal school aid last year. He left both the 
S l billion handicapped aid and the 
52.9 billion Title I program of com­pensatory c.."<<ucation for needy children out of his "new federalism" package. Congress last year cut only 5200 million from Title I. 
Many of the federal school programs were created to meet spe­cial needs that Congress felt states and local school districts were neglecting. 
In 1975, when Congress passed a law guaranteeing all handicppped children a "free, appropriate public education," it promised to pay 40 percent of the extra costs of educat­ing them by 1982. But the federal share has never risen past 12 per­cent. 
Congress converted 33 smaller programs, including desegregation aid, ethnic studies, arts education and others, into block grants last year after it cut them by 25 percent to $470 million. Those block grants would disappear under the "new federalism." 
The Reagan administration al­ready has trimmed funds for voca­tional education, which Congress first endorsed in 1917, to S6';3 mil­lion from a peak of 5784 million in Carter's final year. 
Gene Bottom, executive director of the American Vocational Associa­tion, expects Reagan to try to slash those funds in half next year. 
State and local governments in­vest S9 for each S l spent by Wash­ington on vocational education, but Bottom says "a federal presence is crucial, not only to have a skilled work force but for a strong national defense." 
Other educators echo the refrain that Reagan, in seeking cuts in education aid, is undermining his own goal of rebuilding the nation's industrial and military might. They see Reagan abandoning President Eisenhower's post-Sputnik commit· ment to "the highest possible excel-
See CUTS, page 6 
Student Government reduces deficit chances 
By DAVID GUFFEY 
News Staff 
Notre Dame Student Government 
and Student Union expenditures are 
on schedule, according to student 
officials. 
According to the Student Senate 
budget report distributed last week, 
Sl2, II 0 remained of an allotted S30,163 Student Government budget as of last Dec. 31. According to Karen Kiley, Student Government Treasurer, expenditures are on schedule and "going well." The only possible area of concern for overspending for this year is with s~laries expenses that the Student 
Governmcm tUU!>L pay. Otherwise, 
tight internal controls and con­
servative spending by the Student . Government have reduced the chances of a deficit for the 1981­1982 school year. 
The same budget report showed 
that the Student Union spent less 
than halfofits allotted funds as oflast 
Dec. 31. Last year the Student Union 
ran a "large" deficit because of con­
cert failures and Chautauqua, 
according to Student Union comp­
troller Matt Barrett. He feels that is 
not likely to happen this year. 
"We're in real good shape this year. 
I'm happy with the budget," com­. mented Barrett. 


THETIME IS NOW 

~ 
Applications are now available for next year's Student Union Director and Comptroller in S.U. Ottice. 

Must be submitted by Feb. 11 


New~y-appointed Scholastic h'ditor Beth Healy plans improve­mentsfor the 1982-83 publication. (Photo by Tonia Hap) 
• • . Cotntnittee 
By LESLIEANNE WADE 
News Staff 
Scholastic magazine appointed 
junior Beth Healy as its 1982-83 
cditor-in-chiefTucsday night. 
Her experiences as a reporter and 
layout assistant at Scholastic give 
her a needed insight and a special 
knowledge of her audience. 
Healy feds "the magazine has a responsibility to inform and en­lighten students." She has many new ideas ao; to how this can be ac­complished. 
A!> editor, she will work towards a "better balance between items ofna­tional and international importance and articles pertaining specifically to Notre Dame as a community." One idea she suggests is an "In Brief' 
column  that  will  summarize  and  
comment  on  both  world  and  
campus events.  

The new Scholastic editor wants to share her "enthusiasm for the magazine" with the students of the ND-SMC community. Her en· thusiasm plans to take her to all areas ofthe campus in search ofa qualified staff. Healy said, "1 will not hesitate to draw from various departments 

and students who excel in their par­ticular studies." She will use her staff to produce a quality publication that depicts life at Notre Dame. "I will take Scholastic seriously and will do everything possible to mirror the quality ofthe individuals and institu­tion it represents." 
Scholastic is accepting applica­tions for its 1982-83 editorial board. If interested, students should con· tact Beth Healy at 3820 or 603 Pasquerilla East by Fch. 19. 
To education 
'New federalism' cuts aid 
continuedfrom page I 
letter' for the survey. "The letter will cite the c 1 redibility of the study," Murday said. "This will encourage faculty to respond to the survey." 
In other business, Trish Hiler of­fered an update on the "Deli Line" experiment which began Tuesday in South Dining Hall. Hiler said that she has heard only favorable response to the experiment, and expects the lines to improve in the "very ncar" future. She added that the dining hall staff has been "very cooperative." 
Murday noted that the deli lines were long, but move quickly. "They (lines) may have the 'drawing power' to attract students from the North Dining Hall and relieve the crunch," he said. 
Brian Callaghan announced that he will judge locations for additional laundry facilities Friday with Main· tenancc Director John Moorman. "There are four or five possible loca­tions on campus," Murday said. "Since it is costly to hook up addi­tional sewage lines, the University wants to install machines In mass quantities." Possible locations' in­clude the Credit Union building, Keenan basement, Carroll Hall and Holy Cross Hall. 
Brothers of Holy Cross Voca·Uon CounselingOn Campus How Jo I know if the Lord ts calling me? 
+ How does Brotherhood fulfill my need for prayer. commu.."lity sharing anJ service? 
t' 
How do I pray to discern the Lord's call? 
+ 
What are the Brothers' ministries? 

+ 
How do Brothers responJ to the neeJs of our Jay: committment to Jesus in the poor, oppresseJ, socia! justice? 


... What is the formation program for the Brothers of Holy Cross? 
For infonnation or to talk about these thinKS, foe/free to call on me. 
Br. David Baltrinic, CSC 
Vocation Director 103 Columba Hall phone: 239-7830 


--------------~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Thursday, February 4, 1982-page 4 


' .. . 
• 

Economic Update 
Phone rates will climb onty eight to ten percent a year over the next few years, according to Charles L. Brown, chair­man of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company. Brown testified in defense of the recent antitrust scttlemnt with the Justice Department. In his first appearance on Capitol Hill since the an­nouncement of the accord, Brown said the rate increases would result mostly from factors that existed before the settlmcnt was reached. Under its terms, AT&T is to get rid ofits 22 regional operat­ing subsidiaries. 
The Commerce Departmentoffcring optimis­tic news, today reported a modest rise last December in a statistic intended to signal turns in the business cycle. Reporting a rise ofsix -tenths of I percent for the department's index of leading in­dicators. after declines of two-tenths of I percent in November and 
1.8 percent in October, Secreatary Malcolm Baldridge said the in­crease "suggests that the recession may soon touch bottom," al­though a further rise in unemployment and a decline in production could occur." 
No increase in donations, is the message being given by many corporations in response to suggestions that philanthropy make up cuthacks in Federal Programs. Some fear they may have been "set up" by the Federal Government, according to a Conference Board Ssurvcy released yestcrday."Wc didn't start these programs, and we shouldn't be responsible for their continuation if 
Federal money is not available," one unidentified executive said. At a 
bcws conference yesterday, E. Patrick McGuire, executive director 
of the board's research programs in business and government, said 
such expectation were unrealistic, despite the Government in· 
centive of doubling to I 0 percent of income, the maximum cor· 
porate tax deduction for charity. 
To ease western tensions, Japan plans to eliminate or significantly reduce 67 nontariff barriers to its market, twoJapanese Government ministers said today.The much-criticized barriers arc viewed by the United States and the European Economic Community as evidence that Japan is a closed market -resistant to imports, yet exporting aggressively at the expense ofother nations. Although Japan has reduced its tariffs, it maintains a number of less visible impediments to imports, such as uncommonly severe health and safety standards and testing requirements for some products.)apan has accumulated huge trade surpluses, which have aggravated unemployment problems in the West. 
Research Update 
A 3-D camera,that's what the Timex Corporation and 
Nimslo International Ltd., a British company plan to market. The two 
companies have agreed in principle for Timex to purchase and dis­
tribute 800,000 ofthe cameras, valued at S125 million, over the next 
two years, Nimslo said yesterday. The cameras, which would be 
priced under 5200, and usc two frames of film per shot. Special 
processing equipment that both Timex and Nimslo will manufacture 
converts the two-frame image into a picture that Nimslo believes 
will be especially attractive for "portrait" shots. 

manbatoRy m€€trnq ~oR all paRtlclpatmq m 
tOROntO €XChanq€ 
thURS, ~€8. 4 6:30pm 
Tbe space shuttle Columbia is scheduled to be moved to NASA's Verlicle Assembly Building today in preparationfor it's third launch, now set for March 22. While in tbe Verticle Assembly Building, tbe shuttle willbe mated to its external fuel tank and solid rocket boosters. Only 48 days were required to prepare tbe shuttlefor tbe move as opposed to 103 days after tbe second mission, and 613 days before tbe first launch. 
While shuttle processing continues, an agency of tbe Defense Department contends that the entire shuttle program should be turned over to tbe Department ofDefense for securi~y reasons. Sucb a move would take the shuttle out of the bands of civilians and place it under military control. 


NOplaces 
Accounting jobs add up 
By NORLIN RUESCHHOFF 
Accounting Department Chairman 
In the past two years, over three 
hundred Notre Dame graduates 
joined public accounting firms. 
Most of these graduates joined Top 
Ten international accounting firms. 
A few joined regional accounting 
firms such as Crowe Chizek and 
Company and McGiadrey Hendrick­
son and Company, two regional 
firms that have the largest offices in 
South Bend. 
Why arc so many Notre Dame stu­dents selected for initial employ­progam at Notre Dame has had a other service organizations. A few ment by these firms ? Two main strong academic tradition for many join industrial firms and governmen­rea~ons can be given. First, the years. tal agencies as internal auditors or in demand for students by public Notre Dame graduates are in accounting trainecship programs. accounting firms in the United States much greater demand than are Some Notre Dame seniors that is growing. Secondly, Notre Dame graduates from other universities in want to join public accounting firms students in particular arc in demand. the nation. Why is this so ? The don't receive offers. The most fre­
In tht· table accompanying this ar­answer could be simply stated: quent reason is their apparent lack ticle, the relationship between supp­Notre Dame has traditionally had ofcommunications or interpersonal ly and demand for jobs in public one of the best accountancy skills. On the other hand Notre accouming is shown both for the na­programs in the United States. Cer­Dame graduates are in so great tion and for Notre Dame. The table tainly several accounting firms have demand because they have such shows that the number of Bachelor's thought so for many years and still skills. In other words, the accoun­degrt·es in accounting is increa~ing think so. After all, as the table indi­tancy program has been outstanding significantly, almost three times as cates, puhlic accounting firms have at Notre Dame not only because of many such degrees arc t·xpccted to been hiring a percentage of Notre the high quality of accounting in­be granted in ll)HS than were issued Dame graduates that is more than struction and related business in 1<)70, a filtcen year span. Yet the double the nationwide percentage. education but because of the sig­demand f(Jr these graduates is A number of Notre Dame accoun­nigicant broadness of the Notre increasing fa~ter, causing fewer to tancy graduates do enroll in Dame experience in liberal arts and 
he available for hire hy industrial, graduate husincss programs and in letters. With about half of the 
financial. governmental, and non­Jaw schools. Others have military accounting students' education 
profit institutions and agencks. t·ommitmcnts and still others accept received outside the College ofBusi­
The data is compil<:d from an an­oppurtunitics in banking, and ness Administration, the educational 
nual survey pdormcd by the leading careers with the Peace Corps and experience is broadening in nature. 
United States proft:ssional account­
ing association, the American In­
stitute of Ct:rtified Public 
Accountants. The data here shown 
EASY AMTRAK RID.....

docs not include Master's degree 
holdt·rs that arc even in ~o:reater 
demand. Also. the data Marts from 
$5.00 to Niles depot

only J<)70, though the at·countancy 
For reservations or schedule information, call us or contact your travel agent. 

EDITORS NOTE: Tht· goal of the Business and Technology section will he to take topics not normally 
United Limo

covered in Tbe Observer. and prest·nt them in a manner interest­ing to our readers. To this end, reader comments art· wekomc. Plcast· direct all suggt·stions to: 
Ryan Vcr Berkmoes 
C/0 Tht· Ohscrver 
P.O. Box l) :'ll!llrt· Dame. ln. 46<;<;6 
~-----~-----­

--------------------~-----~-------------~-­
The Observer Thursday, February 4, 1982 -page 6 
...Focus 


continuedfrom page 1 
with no questions asked. 

So now any student whose family earns more than $30,000 must answer a lot of questions on a form called the FAF (Financial Aid Form). Only if the student can demonstrate "financial need" will he receive a loan from an independent bank, and ifhe does, the amount will probably not be close to the present $2,500. 
The College Scholarship Service evaluates the information listed on the FAF including family income, size of family, number of family members in college, assets and liabilities. The result is an estimation of how much the family, which in­cludes the student, can "realistically" be expected to con­tribute to college costs. 
The process is hardly new, and Notre Dame has long used the FAF as the sole application for many of the programs it administers. But the FAF is new to the GSL Program. 
Russo does not agree with the $30,000 ceiling. "It is not fair for Notre Dame students," he said. "Everyone has to take their lumps, but students at a public institution find this easier to swallow. I think everyone, regardless of income, should have to demonstrate some sort ofneed." 
The federal government, thougll, does not actually fund the GSL program. The money for the loans comes from independent banks. But while the student is in college, the government pays the interest. 
The Pell Gra11t Program, however, faces direct cuts in federal monies. The Pell Grant gave away S2.3 bil­lion in grants last year, but the Reagan administration has since proposed a 40 percent reduction by 1983-84. And the Work-Study Program migllt lose 25 percent ofits money. 
So the Financial Aid Office faces less money next year at a time when more and more families need the as­sistance. "It's not just a matter of eligibility," Russo said, "The money has got to be there." 
Russo did advise that because of the situation, "it will be extremely difficult to consider any person who has missed the March I, 1982 deadline for the FAF." 
Oh, where is Frances Dailey when you need her? 

ND sponsors third Capernaum dig 
The NO-sponsored dig at Caper­naum on the Sea of Galilee will be conducting its third season this sum­mer. All students and faculty at NO and SMC are invited to join us for the five-week period (approximate dates: May 22 to June 25). 
We will be digging on the Greek Orthodox site of Capernaum, an im­portant Galilean · city in antiquity whereJesus lived and preached. The 

The challenge... 
forthose who dare... is at 
TRW 
TRW College Relations Bldg. R5/B196, Dept. NO 2/82 One Space Park Drive Redondo Beach, California 90278 
Challenge! Another reason why tomorrow is taking shape at a company called TRW. 
Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/H 
U.S. Citizenship Required 
~~~ 

Challenge! For some, ifs a once-in-a-life-time experience. For others, like the professionals at TRW, ifs an everyday reality. 
These knowledge-intensive men and women operate as a team to reach the highest pinnacles of technical excellence. They recognize the value of the individual to the group effort in reaching the top in a variety of technical disciplines-From large data base software systems, communications spacecraft, and alternative energy sources to scientific satellites, high energy lasers, and microelectronics. 
So, if you're a rugged individualist with a strong desire to pit your skills against complex technical problems, look into TRW. We'll give you the experi­ence you need to become an engineering pro­fessional of the highest calibre. 
Now that you've mastered the basics and conquered one mountain, we invite you to scale ours. 
TRW will be on campus February 26 
to interview graduates in Engineering and Scientific disciplines at all degree levels. Contact the placement office to schedule your appointment, or write to: 
group wiil be living in a youth hostel near the site, also on the lakeshore, with ideal conditions for swimming, fishing and other leisure activities. Ideal for students interested in ar­chaeology, history, anthropology or theology. No previous experience 
required. 

We estimate the approximate cost at SI ,600 which includes round trip air fare Chicago-Tel Aviv, board and lodging for the five weeks, on site in­struction and planned archaeologi­cal tours. 
If you are interested call Prof. Blenkinsopp 233-6841 evenings or leave your name and telephone number with the secretary in the Department ofTheology, third floor O'Shag. 
... Cuts 
continuedfrom page 3 

lence in our education." 
The Reagan administration phased out the last 306,000 CETA public service jobs four months ago. Once, 700,000 people had CETA jobs. 
CET A was signed into law by President Nixon in 1973 to rep! .ace the Great Society manpower programs of the 1960s. At its heigllt in the late 1970s, CETA distributed more than SIO billion a year to 475 cities, counties and states. Now its budget stands at 53.8 billion. 
The administration is poised to seek congressional approval for a transfer of job training respon­sibilities to the states in fiscal 1983, starting next Oct. 1, possibly through block grants to the states to disburse to labor-management councils. 
The Work Incentive Program, un­
der which the poor get federal 
stipends so long as they participate 
in job training, also would be trans­
ferred to the states under the Reagan 
plan, but the WIN program is one of 
few that would be spared fund cuts. 
LIKETOWOBK 
ABROAD? 
AIESEO presently has an opening for a reception Officer. Applicants must be residents of South Bend or be in South Bend for the summer of 1982, and also be a _sophomore or junior busi~ess major. Upon succe~tdul com­pletion of the job, the llO is eligible to get a job in a foreign country for 6 weeks to to 18 months. For more info. call Jeff Ogden 14'l4 


Thursday, February 4, 1982 -page 7
Editorials 
A few years horized a memorial honor and recognize women War." In May 1980 design was chosen from entries. That design, Maya Lin, then architecture student, become almost as the war whose memory it serves. The winning design ten feet below ground the Vietnam between 1961 The names, listed began, at the vertex. "the war tioned.  
P.  
Dear Editor; lt was Feb. I tllat the Reagan administration  
wtth 50 million dollars in aid andwill ask Congress for another .110 mil~ lion. the Polish communist does not preclude his own JqvolVer ment in the economic aid or the: foreign military counter-revolutionary course1 in the CftSl!! stake and it ·. · support the peasants. This mow at a time when aid to th~ miooriticll ofthiJi u  
Dar Edbr,·· .•. • r· exception to Jl)hn . .· · .teriwion of the Chautauqua Club in his "Inside Thu,rsday'' ofla$t w~ek; In the column ~kOrath ~£erred ~9 the Chatauqua ~~~ would think ftom tl\@t comment that he bad done some s¢1' of research into Chautauqua's att¢n~ dance or wb.icb I know be did not do beca~~ neith¢r Todd Hooper, .the Cl>aw~Yc. qua manager, nt'll' myself bas bee~  

democratic movements by weii!ns of 
~~~~vu'n¥ 'l~1tt•ll~.~ 
..m ...v. li,;pp~:~te 

··· ··· ·······.···..···········..·...·······.··..··· ... ·.. ··· ··· ··· ··· ··· ··· ·· ·. ·· ··· ·· 
· ·· ·•• •. · · ..··•·· ·•• •·· 

@~'disaster''. Ooe d~finltNc~·; pi%AriY:n¢S~•.PJtQg 
balance sheets, re~pb 

approached. 
In fact, Chautauqua, bas bee~ showing sleady improvement .since its opening la:->t year. Wblle it ls t~ . that initial attendance wa$ dl~• · appointing. the last few shows have been better received, we have 
the proposed monument. Lin's design is neither "too commanding
~ 
nor too deferential" (stated criteria). This is not the day and age of, nor perhaps is the Vietnam War the occa­sion for metaphors, another Winged Victory or Pieta. 
The dignity of those who served and those who died is of concern. Critics of the chosen design argue that the dignity of those who serve should be affirmed in a memorial ­not that their efforts and sufferings should be exploited in a memorial for the purpose of making a statement. 
I doubt if it is posible to totally divorce from a creative work the sentiments of its creator. Perhaps this memorial is a statement against war, that war is a tragedy. The deaths A major issue in the controversy recorded are not abstract war deaths, 
concerns the dignity of the design. 

alphabetically logged. They are in­The monument is to be built on (some dividual deaths that occurred within a say gouged into) two acres set aside historical context, supposedly ap­in Constitution Gardens, just off the proaching a resolution, only to recoilWashington Mall between the Lin­upon themselves. It is not a state­coln Memorial and the Washington ment the Vietnam War-Vietnam isMonument. This is the monumental not mentioned, dates are notheart of Washington. The serenity of specified -but a statement of thethe Mall's rich green carpet, flanked tragedy inherent of war in general.
by the stately white memorials The physical subtlety of the monu­deserves the dignified simplicity of ment, the insistance on individual 

War memorial creating controversy 
In support of federalism 
Concerning Mr. Reagan's Washington, where it is assumed that proposal to turn over to the states the tax dollars generate spontaneously, William Buckley responsibility for a $50-billion as­than in the states, where citizens are sortment of welfare-goods, while likely to look at people who are accepting federal responsibility for a taking their money in the eye. On the Right $50 billion annual state bill, 2) The mechanics of the Reagan 
Medicaid. a few observations: I)  plan are agreeably conservative.  
The idea of remilling responsibility  Over a period of seven years he  
to the states is sound, and can be  proposes more or less to subsidize the  
viewed both as affirmative action for  tax package through federally col­ 
federalism and as an aspect of  lected revenues. This gives the state  
deregulation. It has always been  time to adjust to the new burdens,  
puzzling why residents of Arizona  and time also, before 1991, to seck  
and Connecticut should wish to leave  plebiscitary opmwn on the  
program's desirability.  
3) In acccepting the burden of  
' ' ... let 's get tax relief  Medicaid, the president dilutes the philisophical integrity of the plan.  
The excuse for taking on the  
from Washington  heretofore state-supported health  
program is presumable that the divi­ 
and impose higher  sion between Medicaid and Medicare was becoming progressively elusive,  
health after all being health. There is  
taxes locally. ''  a certain administrative point here being made, that it would have been  
encouraging to have seen Mr.  
Reagan vote to unburden Medicare,  
it to Washington to decide what por­ rather than to take on Medicaid.  
tion of their people's money should  The idea ofderegualation is to per­ 
go for the purchase of food stamps.  mit 50 states to enact their own  
The governor of Connecticut, Mr.  programs, refining them to a pal­ 
O'Neill, has already announced his  pable public will. Still better would  
opposition to the devolution to the  have been a resolution to limit federal  
states authority over the wefare  welfare supports of those states of the  
package, citing the difficulty of  union (they number 31) whose per  
raising money to subsidize these ac­ capita income falls below the nation­ 
tivities.  al average. There isn't really much to  
As a res-ident of Connecticut, I am  be said for taking Connecticut taxes  
grateful that the state doesn't have an  for the purpose of looking after Con­ 
income tax. But if an income tax is.  necticut health. Why not let Hartford  
needed to subsidize ventures that are  do it?  
needed, then let's get tax relief in  4) As for Mr. Reagan's opponents,  
Washington, which affects to know  how I wish I has been there when the  
what is simultaneously desirable in  Democrats' television screen showed  
Arizona and Connecticut, and  Senator Sasser and Representative  
impose higher taxes locally. What  Gore of Tennessee standing in an  
the governor of Connecticut probab­ empty field with a group of real estate  
ly suspects is that the voters of Con­ agents, complaining about the lack of  
necticut, when time came, would  home building.  
vote against some of the welfare  Two or three weeks ago, a pump in  
measures more easily enacted in  my house backed up, and a plumber  
Editorial Board  

Jenny Pitts 
death, and the tranquil expanse of the 
mall do seem to affirm the impact of 
those deaths. Death becomes a per­
sonal and private matter meant for 
reflection and reconciliaton. 
So, is the memorial a monument to death? Does it ignore or deny the dig­nity of those who served and did not die? Those veterans who were physi­cally maimed, mentally wounded, whose families and personal lives were irreparably damaged, inalterab­ly changed? 
I don't know. I would not say that the proposed monument, even through omission, reproaches or con­demns those men and women who fought in Vietnam. The monument does not pass judgement. Perhaps it does supercede the importance of their sacrifice with the need to recognize war for the tragedy it is. War is not an ennobling act. Perhaps it is foolish, if not false to assert dig­nity when, in fact, what is called for is a statement. 
was called in from nearby Green­wich. A few days ago I received his bill. It read "7 hours, at $33 per hour. Calculated, 2:30-3:30, I hour. 3:30-6:30, double time, 6 hours. To­tal, $231." 
Now it isn't obvious why overtime begins at 3:30 in the afternoon ­there is still light at that hour. Nor, for that matter, is it obvious why overtime didn't begin at 2:30 in the afternoon, if overtime begins when­ever you feel it should begin. If it begins eight hours after he began 
work, then the plumber's day began at 7:30, and be the time he had reached my pump, he had earned $231. By the time he left my pump, he had made $462. 
A long day, II hours. But for $120,120 per year, it may be worth it. But if the plumber takes in twice as much as f federal judge, houses arc going to be very expensive. On the other hand, you have to look at the plumber's point of view: He is paying half of everyting he makes in taxes, beginning way back in April, when he had reached only the figure $40,000 of his income. Of course, 
the Reagan administration is notorious for giving tax relief to the rich and therefore Reagan is at fault for giving the plumber a big tax boost by raising from $32,000 to $40,000 the point at which highest tax is reached. But let's face it, when taxes cause plumbers to get such rates of compensation, fewer and fewer people can affort to build houses. So what do we do? The Democrats would begin by raising taxes. Much more sensible, surely, would be to persuade the plumbers to form a bank and compete with a lower interest rate? 
ago Congress aut­be built ·'to the men and who served in the Vietnam a winning the 1421 submitted by a 22 year old Yale has since controversial as 

is a fairly simple one. The V-shaped memorial consists of two walls, two hundred feet long each, which begin at ground level and recede into the ground until they converge at a 135 degree angle, level. In­scribed in the black granite walls arc names of the 57,709 American men and women who were killed in and 1975. chronologically (not alphabetically) begin at the ver­tex, continue down the right wall, then up the left, to end where they The sig­nificance, according to Lin, is that is complete, coming full circle." Nowhere on the monument is the Vietnam War specifically men­
Mnounced 

is supplying the junta in l':ll Salvadt>f 
It seems that Re11gan• s supportJQr Solidamu~c and his announ¢ern~nt9f :•. · pitt#'~< 
military repression of!hat movem¢nt 
suppression of. 

u.s. ~~~~::~~~~~{!~Ri1~.1~;;..1 
The controversies are so many, and encompass just about every aspect of the structure and purpose that one hardly knows where to begin. 
It has been called a monument to death, a crypt, an Orwellian glop, a nihilistic statement, and a "monumental insult." It has also been called a monument to reconcila­tion. 
ly, as our ectmom~'iOlPS 
····:•lt}ws··· and ~heir \j"bl' ava.J:labk to ships 
¢~~t«~~g¢b~$ {il~hf/4f?J(hifl;/:fijlj~ 

Founded November 3, 1966 The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report­ed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, i!i encoun.ged. 
P.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
l:'dilor-in-Cbief.......... . ......john \1cGrath t:xecutiue News Editor............. .. .... Kdli Flint Sports Editor. ... ............ Skip Desjardin Neu•s Editor ............................. David Ri~.:kabaugh Photo Editor.. .. .....john Ma(·or SMC t'xecuti1•e Editor...........\1ary Agnes Care~ Editorials Editor............. ......... Anthony Walton SMC Neu•s Editor......................Cathy Domanico Featun!s Editor ................... ..... Gregory Swil"rcz 
Dep~rtment Managers 
Business .\1anager ........................Rich Coppola Production Jlanager..... .. .... Michael Monk Controller .............................................joe Mulllur Circulation Marzager ............Tom Ma<:lc:nnan Ad1•ertisin~ Manager................ ......Chris Owen .\)•stems ,Hanager ..... . ....liru(·c: Oakley 
~~()rtS=l~J~r~i=e~~S~==~~~===================T=h=ur=sct=~='=Fe~b=ru=~==4=,1=9=B2===pa=g=e=s
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
S.U. Spring Break Ski Trip -Anyone needing a ride must sign up by Friday, Feb. 5. An accurate count is needed to determine the number of vehicles needed. Also, anyone who needs extra riders please sign up at the S.U. office by Friday. Finally, those who missed the ski rental list can fill that out at the S.U. office. Ifyou have any questions or problems please call Kevin at 239-7605 or 1 798. -The Observer 
ND Rugby Club will hold an organizational meeting tonight at 7:00 in the LaFortune ballroom. Call Nick Colarecci at 289-3022 ifyou can not attend. -The Observer 
Tickets for away Notre Dame basketball games against Seton Hall and Michigan are available at the second floor ticket office in the ACC. The Seton Hall game will be held on Thursday, February 18 at the Meadowlands Arena in East Rutherford, N.J. Tickets for the Michigan game, to be held at the Silverdome in Pontiac, Mich., on 
Sunday, March 7, are priced at $4, 56 and $8. -The Observer 
Cross-country ski rental is available weekends to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. For details, call239-5100. ­
The Observer 
The Student Unioncontinues to sponsor ski trips to 
Swiss Valley every Saturday night during the winter months. Busses 
depan from the Main Circle at 5 p.m. and return at 11 p.m. Bus 
tickets can be purchased in advance from the Student Union for 
S2.50, or on the bus itself for 53.00. Also, discounted lift tickets and 
ski rental are available -The Observer 

NBA Eastern Conference Atlantic Division 
W L 
Boston 33 11 Philadelphia 31 14 Washington 22 22 New Jersey 21 24 New York 21 25 
Central Division Milwaukee 30 14 Atlanta 19 24 Detro1t 19 26 Indiana 19 26 Chicago 18 27 Cleveland 10 34 
Western Conference Midwest Division 
W L 
SanAnton1o 29 14 
Denver 24 20 
Houston 22 22 
Utah 14 29 
KansasC1ty 14 31 
Dallas 13 31 
Pacific Division Seattle 30 13 Los Angeles 31 14 Golden State 25 18 Phoemx 24 18 Portland 24 19 
San D1ego 14 31 
Yesterday's Results Boston at Detroit, ppd. snow New Jersey 112, Atlanta 103 Philadelphia 122, Washington 96 Cleveland 1 08, Indiana 1 04 Milwaukee 113, Ch1cago 98 San Diego 113, Dallas 106 Utah 122, Portland 1 t8 Golden State 90, Phoen1x 88 New York 98, Los Angeles 94 Seattle 97, Kansas City 87 Pet. GB .750 ­.689 2.5 .500 11 .467 12.5 .457 13 

.682 .442 10.5 .422 11.5 .422 11.5 .400 12.5 .227 20 
Pet. GB .674 .545 5.5 .500 7.5 .326 15 .311 16 .295 16.5 
.698 .689 .581 5 .571 5.5 .558 6 .311 17 

In this year's NHLplayoffformat, the top four teams in each division make the playoffs, regardless of overallleague standing. 
PRINCE OF WALES CONFERENCE 
Adama Dlvlalon 

W L T GF GA Pta. 
Montreal 29 It 12 244 153 70 
Boston 30 16 7 216 182 67 
Buffalo 29 15 9 207 160 67 
Quebec 26 20 8 241 220 60 
Hartford 15 24 12 174 217 42 
Patrick Division 

N.Y. 
Islanders 31 13 6 223 165 68 Philadelphia 28 19 4 207 194 60 

N.Y. 
Rangers 25 20 7 192 200 57 PittSburgh 21 24 8 200 225 50 Washington 14 30 8 196 218 36 


CLARENCE CAMPBELl CONFERENCE 
Smythe Dvlslon 

WLTGFGA Pis Edmonton 33 13 10 300 220 76 Calgary 19 23 12 209 234 50 Vancouver 18 25 11 185 195 47 Los Angeles 14 28 11 210 253 39 Colorado 11 35 8 158 248 30 
Norris Division Minnesota 22 16 15 229 191 59 St. Louis 25 24 4 219 225 54 Winmpeg 19 23 11 202 232 49 Chicago 18 25 10 232 245 46 Toronto 16 24 13 215 236 45 Detroit 14 28 10 177 220 38 
Yesterday's Results M1nnesota 9, Pittsburgh 6 Boston 5, Buffalo 2 Chicago 9, St. Lou1s 5 Montreal 6, Edmonton 3 Vancouver 2, Toronto 1 
Today'a Games Buffalo at Boston 
N.Y Islanders at Washington Minnesota at Philadelphia Ch1cago at Detroit 
N.Y. Rangers at Calgary 

Arnold(3471 )/Verfuth(6158) V. Mur· 
ray( 1058)/Eiscnbcis Keenehan(8255 )/Poczobuu(8264) V. Sayre(8930 )/Randazzo{ 232·1345) Callahan(3361 )/Mulligan( 3345) V. Smith ( 4600)/ Schmutz Hirl( 1409)/Nagy v. Heinzman( 3200)/Ansari 
Hearney(3113)/Sleeth(3177) v. Muenin· ghoff( 1031 )!McBride( I033) Creps(8579)/Meeker(8531) v. 
Daege1e(8641 )/Colvin 
Kalvach/Packo( 1688) v. Wayne (8905 )/Hannegan 
Muccio ( 1142)/Puzak v. McKelvey ( 8897)/Bozlk 
Finimore ( 1409)/Culf v. Bur· ton(8284)1Bru88eman(8292) 
Women's Racquetball Doubles (Double Elimination) Kennedy(8135 )/Jantz(6372) v. McCollcs· ter( 3874)ljymenez Cervenak( 1363)/Millerv. Mullen(8143)/T. Smith Gorski( 1262)/Schmid v. bye DeLeone(7956)/Drancik(2914) v. bye 
Nicklaus, Miller go at it again 
PEBBLE BEACH, Calif. (AP) ­Jack Nicklaus and Johnny Miller head into confrontation No. 3 this week in the S300,000 Bing Crosby National Pro-Am GolfTournament. 
"That's twice this season," Nick laus said to Miller immediately after Johnny's triumph last week in the San Diego Open. 
And Miller, once golfs Golden Boy but now a more mature seasoned performer, knows full wei the difficulty he faces in making i three in a row. 
"It's very tough, coming offa win, to pull it all together again, keep it all going, and win the next week," he said after a practice round at the Pebble Beach Golflinks. "It requires an awful lot of concentration and self-discipl tine." 
Miller, however, has three things going for him in the revered old event that begins its 41st renewal today in the picturesque beauty of three Monterey Peninsula courses. 
First of all, he's a notorious streak player.· And, quite obviously, he's playing very, very well right now. 
Second, there's the time. "This is my time of the year," said Miller, who has scored a majority of his more notable successes in the early season. 

Third is the location. "I usually play my best golf in the West," said Miller, who completed a career sweep (minus Hawaii) of the Wes tern events with his front-running triumph in San Diego. 
.~ 
The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day throu.~h Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However, t.'assifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid, 
either in person or through the mail. 
Classifieds 
............. ANIMAL LOVERS: The EPA has

LAOTIAN LADY WANTS PART TIME NEED RIDE to Northwest suburbs of
Democratic Soc1alists meeting 7:30 Sun­STEREO/PHONO Only $80 Call 272­declared th1s National Seal Week. All 
day in Rm. 600 library CLEANING, CARE OF CHILDREN OR 2578(Evemngs) Chicago (Arlington Heights) on Friday 
those interested 1n preserving this endan· 

NOTICES 
DISABLED. CAN TAKE BUS. EX· (Feb. 5) after 12 noon. Will share ex­gered species should call 1694 and ask
PERIENCED. 289-1687. penses. Please call Julie at 41·5802. 
JOHNNY GRAHAM for more information. YOUR SUPPORT IS NEEDEDIIIIII!I 

Notre Dame Ave Apts has apartments I need nde to PURDUE. Can leave 
Free University available for next school year Call 234· Fn,2 12 & return Sun,2 14. Will share
\ LOST/FOUND \ TICKETS 
SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS AP·

Free University 6647 usual, call Mark 8317. 
PLICATION DEADLINE Fnday, February Free Unlveralty 

Four and f1ve bedroom houses are 5 Center for Expenent1al Learnmg 
Register tonight, 6:30. LaFortune Ball· SENIORS-Party at the ICE HOUSE 1n
LOST: ONE PEARL NECKLACE, lost be· ava1lable for next school year. Call 234· WANTED:TWO NORTH CAROLINA 
room. 22 courses. 1 00 Center Piano Bar and reduced drink
tween the Huddle and the library -if 9364. Nancy Humbarger. STATE GA'S CALL X8738 WHATEVER I
Free University prices Thursday, Feb. 4 -9:30·1 :00 AM
found please call 284·4981 ( necklace has ·······························································
deep sentimental value) reward. Thank STUDENT RENTALS: 2 SIX BEDROOM NEED SIX GAs FOR NC STATE. IT'S A TREEEP! 
SHOW YOUR LADY YOU CARE WITH A SEE RONALD REAGAN (our fearless 
you. HOUSES NEXT DOOR TO EACH PLEASE CALL JENNY 284·4507 
BOUQUET OF FLOWERS DELIVERED leader) IN BEDTIME FOR BONZO 
OTHER. FULLY CARPETED, NOONSTER .. YOU CRAZY! 
........•........... ··-·······································
EVERY WEDNESDAY FOR 4 WEEKS. 
URGENT need many N.C. STATE t1x callLost: women's S1eko quartz watch lost be· FIREPLACE AND LOFT. CALL 272­
WEDNESDAY'S FLOWERS. 289-1211. DEMAR AND KAREN -STOP YOUR
7767, 232·4057, 272·2720. 1730 TRICIA DARLING, SHEEDY'S LAW.
tween Madeleva and Regina. Call Jodi 
4714 SMC 
VALENTINES DAY IS CLOSE BY. FIGHTING AT ONCE. YOU ARE HOLD· NOONAN WAS A HIPPOMOTO TOO INGUPTHE
Summer and/or 82·83,4 bdrm hse.near MUCH SUN. DARLING,MANY BEERS Professional Typ1ng Service For Notre 
LOST: DARK BLUE AMITY BEACH" campus,furn.,excel cond., call 287·5361 WILL CROSS YOUR PATH TONIGHT 
Dame/St. Marys Students 24 hour DON'T FORGET TO SAVE YOU 
WALLET ON MONDAY THE 25TH ANNIE CHRISTIAN 
service $.75 -$1.00 per page. Call PENNIES, DOLLARS, AND STOCK 
SOMEWHERE BETWEEN HAYS· CERTIFICATES TO VOTE FOR THISRandy (239·7735) 
HEALY AND THE ACC. MANY IMPOR· TRICIA C. NOONAN WAS CREATED 20 
YEAR'S ABSOLUTE UGLIEST MAN: 
TANT IRREPLACEABLES INSIDE. IF YEARS AGO TODAY FROM A
=i"='··W=A=N=TE=D==mI 1~....-_PE_RS_O_N_A_LS___JJ
The Soclaty for Creative Anachronism JOE "MOOSE" MUSUMECI 
FOUND. PLEASE CONTACT JIM AT DIRTBALL. SHE IS QUITE AN ITEM.
is coming to campus soon. watch the 
x1523. HELP! CALL HER TO WISH HER HAPPY B·
personals for InformationI Would anyone like a free k11ten? Call5824 DAY AT 4606.
NEED RIDE TO JACKSON. MI. SOCIAL CONCERNS FILM SERIES -(SMC).
Lost: Blue checkbook 1n Crowley Hall ol 
WEEKEND OF FEB. 5·7. CALL MIKE January 26·February5 
Mus1c or the South Din1ng Hall. Call H D N (HAPPY DAY NOONSTER)
SAVE MONEY ON USED BOOKS AT 1857. THANKS MAUREEN DEAREST 
x8551. LOVE, E E 
PANDORA'S. 30pct OFF USED BOOKS SOCIAL CONCERNS FILM SERIES 
IN THE STORE DURING HAPPY HOU~ WANTED: 1 housemate for 6 bedroom Dr Strangelove To Chuck and Mitch of Flanner (not
LOST -Red Prayer Book Chnst1an T -I'LL SEE YOU ON FRY NIGHT.
EACH FRIDAY FROM 3-6. USED house 717 St. LOUIS Ave. Call232·3237 February 1, 3, 4, and 5 Grace):
Prayer·Lilurgy of the Hours"' In Sacred GLUNNING
BOOKS ARE 50pct OFF AND NEW Eng1neenng Aud1tonum Alias sex God" and the Fly1ng
Heart. Sat Nite 1/30. If found Please callBOOKS ARE 20pct OFF. OPEN WEEK· 
STAYING OVER THE SUMMER? 7 and 9:30p.m. Dutchman." Chuck, if you weren'tAI, 1384.
DAYS 11·6, WEEKENDS 10·5. PAN· 
Subleasing 1 bedroom Campus View Apt. .50 adm1ss1on meeting g~rls 1n the h1gh1ump p1t. you'd go 937 BEND 
T-20SHOTS.

DORA'S BOOKS, SOUTH June-Aug. Reduced pnce Call Anne or over, not under. 
AVENUE, 233-2342. 
Loat: Gold Celtic (Irish) cross, probab­SHEEDYBOP
Mary 4637 (SMC) Dr. Strangelove And M1tch. you didn't get that pulledly at SMC, much sentimental value. 
February 1. 3. 4. and 5 hamstnng and hurt ankle 1n TRACK OVERSEAS. JOBS -Summer/year 
Please call Eileen at 284-4602. 
Need nde to Cincinnati Feb 12·14 Call Engtneertng Audttonum practiCe, dtd you? The Questton ts: Otd round. Europe, S. Amer.. Australia. As1a. Casey at6256. .50 AdmiSSion you get it when you weren't tn your own 
REWARDIll T·RISH. YOUTOTALDAMNRIOT! All fields. $500-$1200 monthly. Sightsee­
7 and 9:30p.m. place?!? ing. Free info. Write IJC, Box 52·1N4, 
Found, Ra1ncoat at recent Off-Campus KK RANSOM:
NEED RIDERSIIPitts Bound Feb.5·7,Call SOCIAL CONCERNS FILM SERIES Meg and Julie 
party, Call289·1138to 1dent1fy. We have the GREEN WASHCLOTH ItCorona Del Mar. CA a?'l25. 
272·2578(evemngs) 
you ever want to see tt agam. leave small.

WHO IS THE STUD OF 301 DILLON? H~y FRANK VOEGELE! Have a superHAIRCUTS CALL MICHOLE 7951 
LOST A PAIR OF BLUE M~RRORED unmarked one-cent stamps tn a water­
Need nde th1s Fnday to Valpo or as far birthday! Love. Your Secret Sister 
NEW WAVE SUNGLASSES IN NORTH proof bagg1e under the h1gh·dtve at The
West on tollway as Valpo ex1t Call John RIGHT TO LIFE RETREAT 
DINING HALL CONTACT JASON 8659 Rock. 
BLACK CULTURAL ARTS FESTIVAL 1730 February 5, 7 p.m. to February 7, 1:00 AL HANK FOR STUDENT SENATE THE 
p.m. Only $12-call Pam at x7947 or WILLINGNESS THE EXPERIENCE THE 
1982 FOUND: ExpenSIVe ball·pOinl pen. To anyone who cares: CULTURAL DIMENSIONS' 
RIDERS NEEDED TO DAVENPORT. lA. John at x6804 GOALS COOPERATION AND TEAM­
Descnbe 11 and tell me where you lost It­It" s not the end. 
FEBRUARY 7-MARCH 6 MUST LEAVE AT TWO O'CLOCK FEB,5 WORI( NOT STRONG ARMING VOTE
it's yours I!!!! Phone 272· 7282. It's JUSt tntermtsston.
RETURN FEB, 7 TIM 289·6519 WSND celebrates 1ts 35th birthday on FEB. 8 NORTH QUAD DIST.2 
To those who don t: LERONE BENNETI, JR. 
ANYTIME February 9! L1sten tor the upcom1ng
LOST: 3 KEYS ON GREEN PLASTIC You won't have R1ch Collis to kick around SENIOR EDITOR EBONY MAGAZINE 
BIRTHDAY BONANZA on AM-641!! Need nders to Ann Arbor. Leave Fn. P.M.,
KEYCHAIN. CALL RON 8270. oA.Re··:ra··cii'RE:··aiirriiR··s:rii·oe·t.i;: any more. (At least for one semester.)
"THE SHAPING OF BLACK AMERICA" GOVERNMENT IS A REALITY AL 7 P.M. FEB 7 LIBRARY AUDITORIUM HANK FOR STUDENT SENATE NORTH 
return Sun Call Jack at11 00. How would YOU sound after 35 years??? 
Be like sect1on 1A. go all the way w1th Z &Listen fo the best rock pluc;: ""~t'!WS. sports. 

QUADDIST.2 
K! Vote Kathy Ne11on and and Za1da Av11a

WANTED USED GUITAR FOR EN· and campus events-all · r\M-64!!!
AND YOU THOUGHT ALL WE COULD ................................................................ 
-Farley Hall DO WAS DANCE" TARA your BEAUTY and CHARM make
THUSIASTIC BEGINNER CALL SUE
FO'R RENT 

4003SMC The low l1fe. a cultural novelty 
POETIC MUSICAL even ORGO class a PLEASURE· I'd love 
Soc1al1sm has 9 letters. not four. 7:30 7 P.M. FEB 10 ANNENBERG for YOU to BE MY VALENTINE . 
room 600 library 

AUDITORIUM FURNISHED HOMES CLOSE TO ND D;d ~~~ rru~s H1dd~~ Hearts 1? H1dd~n FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 277·3604. non"tthlnk that you·re aheaa tor
Hearts 2 1s com1ng! Ask a ZAHMb1e. 
Free University
FOR SALE

POETESS SONIA SANCHEZ long-Free UniversityMARDI GRAS CARNIVAL!!! Games for
DRAMATIC READING AND DIALOGUE FURNISHED HOME AVAILABLE NOW. 
If you thmk your revenge IS done. you·re Free University
?P.M. FEB 1 t LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 277·36< 4. USED & OUT-PRINT BOOKS bought, 25 cents. Refreshments. Mus1ca1 and wrong. 
Reg1ster tomght. 6:30. LaFortune Ball·

sold. searched. ERASMUS BOOKS mag1cal Sideshows. Lots of fun! Fn., Feb. 
I may have thought your jOke was real. 
room. 22 courses.

BCAF 1982 Efficiency apt, pnvate Tues·Sunday, 12·6.1027E. Wayne(One 5: 5·1; Sat .. Feb 6: 1-1: Sun .. Feb. 7: 1·5.
entrance But advice to you· BEWARE OF THE Free University

block· south ol Eddy·Jefferson 1ntersec.· Stepan Center BE THERE!
WITH MORE TO COME 1 00/mo.close to n.d. also 3 bed house 1 SEAL!!!
t1on.)

CHECK IT OUTIII 1/2 bath call255·8505 SNAKE: 
The Observer -Sports 
College hoops 
Kentucky loses 4th SECgallle 
AUBURN. Ala. (AP) -Charles Barkley, Odell Mosteller and Byron llenson scored four points each in overtime a:. Auburn upset ninth· ranked Kentucky !B-!:! I in a South· ~:astern Conference basketball game last ni~t. 
The Tigers, trailing 54-4 3 with !:!:54 ldt in regulation, ust:d a trap­
crmtinuedfrom page 12 
Domt·. "Except for the weatht:r, this Is a great place," he says. "I've met most of the players already, and I know that I'll enjoy working with them. 
"What amazes me the most about Notre Damt·," he continues, "is everyone's enthusiasm. The fans have had a tough year athletically, but they arc still supporting the teams. If the crowds at the basketball games arc indicative of the spirit here, I know I'm going to enjoy being a part of it." 
When not on the road, Hudson has spent most of his time watching Irish game films. "I'm impressed 
continuedfrom page 12 
i!> why the special attention they receivt: comes from within. 
"Thost' two st:t a Mandard for l'veryont· dse to follow," says DiS­tanislao. "They're both vt·ry knowkdgcahk, and you won't find two people on the team who work harder than they do. They command a lot of respect." 
That kind ofleadership is essential to a team whose average age doesn't meet the definition of legality in the many states its members come from. 
It's also one of the main reasons that DiStanislao's second Notre Dame club is 13·3. But it's not the reason either ofthem play this game that only became a varsity sport at Notre Dame four years ago. 
With each, it's a matter of pleasure. "Yes, this is a cliche, but I play because I love the game," says 
Mullins, who, on a profile sheet all athletes arc required to fill out, lists her greatest athletic thrill to date as "Playing hoop for Notre Dame." "I 
GUADALAJARA 
SUMMER 
SCHOOL 
University of Arizona offers more than 40 courses; anthro­pology, art, bilingual educa­tion, folk music and folk dance, history, political sci· ence, sociology, Spanish lan­guage and literature and in· tensive Spanish. Six-week session. June 28-August 6, 1982. Fully accredited grad­uate and undergraduate pro­gram. Tuition $360. Room and board in Mexican home, $395. EEO/AA
Write Guadalajara Summer School 
Robert L. Nugent 205 University of Arizona Tucson 85721 (602) 626-4729 
ping zone defense to force Kentucky into errors that enabled Auburn to get back in contention. 
Auburn had lost 13 consecutive games against Kt·ntucky. 
Barkky failed on an HI-footer with one second left in regulation to forct: the extra period at 68-68. Ken­tucky's Dirk Minnicficld had 
... Hudson 
with a lnr of the individual talent on this team," he says. "I definitely have a lot ofpotential to work with." 
Hudson refused to speculate as to who will be Notre Dame's starting quarterback this fall. "I've been impressed with the films that I've seen of Blair Kiel and Ken Karcher," Hudson says. "Todd Lazon (a freshman-to-be) looks like an excel­lent prospect, and I understand that jim O'Hara (senior-to-be) deserves consideration. We'll just have to wait and see." 
Wait and sec. A lot of people will be waiting to see the 1982 Fighting Irish offense. And with Ron Hudson contributing to that offense, those who wait may like what they see. 
. , . Guards 

honestly try not to put the game asidt' at any time. I think about bas­ketball constantly, about assign­ments and mistakes and game plans. I couldn't imagine myselfdoing any­thing else." 
"The game is just fun for both of us," adds Hensley. "We enjoy playing.'' 
They almost have to. There is no contractual basis to their status on the team. They arc unlike the five women players who have left the South Carolina program and arc cur­rently auctioning their talents to the highest bidder. 
Hensley and Mullins are also un­selfish -both announce without hesitation that their positions as starters means little to them. 
As Mullins nods agreement, stepped on the baseline with two seconds left, giving Auburn posses­sion. 
Mosteller put Auburn in front with a rebound basket at the start of the overtime and Kentucky was never able to take the lc::ad, with the Tigers going in front to stay at 72-70 when Barkley hit two free throws with 4:21 left. Barkley gave the Tigers a five-point cushion with two more free throws 50 seconds later. 
Auburn stretched its lead to 79·7 3 with a minute left and protected the advantage with Henson's four free throws down the stretch. 
No.1 Tigers roll on 
COLUMBIA, Mo. (AP) -Steve 
Stipanovich,jon Sundvold and Ricky 
Frazier combined for 3 7 points last 
night, lifting unbeaten No. I Mis­
souri to an 80-54 victory over 
Colorado in Big Eight basketball ac­
tion. 
Stipanovich scored 14 points, 
Sundvold added 12 and Frazier had 
11 as Missouri notched its 19th 
straight victory this season and its 29th consecutive win at home. Both streaks arc Missouri records. 
Colorado fell to 9·1 1 overall and 1· 7 in the Big Eight, while Missouri improved its conference-leading record to 8-0. 
Hensley says "On this team, it really dot:sn't matter who starts. W'e all play a similar amount oftime. I think Laura and Susan feel the same way, although the first tiinc they start a game will probably be a big thrill." 
"The important thing isn't when you're on the floor." Mullins adds, "but what you do when you're there. Our goal is to go out and play well, do what the coaches want us to do and win." 
Call them noble, if you want to. 
Call them leaders, as DiStanislao 
does. 
But even if neither of them ever 
reaches double figures (Mullins did 
it three times as a freshman), or 
scores a game-winning basket, or has 
a picture appear in a paper again, 
don't call them anonymous. 

Thursday, February 4, 1982 -page 9 

Fonner Florida State basketball playerjames Bozeman tells repor­ter at a Tuesday press conference about his allegations against his former school's athletic department. His charges include medical malpractice, giving phony grades, and administering Illegal drugs to players. ( AP Lazerphoto) 
."' WANTED • Pick-up Notre Dame Rugby Team 
to play in large invitational St. Patrick's 
Day tournament in warm and sunny Pensacola, Florida on March 13. Call Collect Molly McGuire (904) 433-2849 -or­(904) 932-0769 

Ifyou desire financial assistance, scholarship, or guaranteed job opportunities upon graduation; then you should enter ... 
10-11 FEBRUARY 
As an important date in your calendar! That is the day we are providing information and interviews in all areas of: 
AVIATION ENGINEERING PERSONELL MANAGEMENT 
at Notre Dame University. Salaries start from 17,200 increasing to $27,500­$44, 000 in four years. Openings are also available in: 
Materials Management•Business Administration•Nuclear Engineering• DoctorseN urseseLawyers For mL're information or appointment for interview call: 
317-2A9-6197 or 1-800-382-9404 extension 6197 DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY 575 N. Pennsylvania St. Office, 646 (OPO) Indianapolis, IN. 46204 
The Observer -Sports Thursday, February 4, 1982 -page 10 
Inovertime 
DePauledges St. Joe's, 46-44 
CHICAGO (AP) -Center Terry Cummings scored 1 7 points, includ­ing a tip-in at the end of an overtime period last night, as fourth-ranked· DePaul edged St. Joseph's, Pa, 46­44. 
With the score tied 44-44 and on­ly seconds remammg in the overtime, Kenny Paterson put up a 20-footer from the right side. The ball kicked off the rim to teammate Jerry McMillan, whose I 5-tooter from the left side missed the iron, but Cummings came up with the air ball and banked in the layup at the buzzer. 
It was DePaul's only field goal of the extra period. Skip Dillard, who scored 11, had provided three other points on free throws,' one of them when St. Joseph's coach Jim Boyle wa"i whistled for a technical foul one minute into the overtime. 
Regulation ended with Dillard missing two free throws after he was fouled at the buzzer by St. joseph's center Tony Costner, who left the game with five fouls. 
More scores-­page9 
Ironically, the situation was al­most a replay of last year's first round NCAA post-season tourna­ment when Dillard was shooting a one-and-bonus free throw in the dosing seconds, only to miss and 

have the Hawks· upset the top­ranked Blue Demons, 49-48. 
DePaul trailed most of the second halflast night, drawing even at 41-41 when Bernard Randolph hit an 18­foot jump shot from the right side just moments after St. Joseph's cap­tain Bryan Warrick was called for charging, also his fifth foul, with 2:11 remaining. 
The teams were deadlocked, 22­22, at intermission after St. joseph's played a very deliberate offense, using three men just inside the mid­court line, forcing DePaul out of its zone defense and into a man-to-man. 
... Clubs 
she wishes to transfer," relates McLaughlin. 

continuedfrom page 12 
McHugh is content enough at Notre Dame, thank defense for the team. Eric Volfe and Barbara Abt were you. Cindy Saldino (in the vault. floor and uneven paral­praised for their top play in reserve roles by Smith lel bars), Helen Ringl (in the balance beam), Kathy Wol­"although all 12 people for us played well." ter (in the balance beam and floor exercise) and Laura 
The team travels to Bowling Green next weekend in a Bach (in the floor exercise) were all also given fine return match with all seven teams from last week. The marks from Mclaughlin. The men's and women's team "Ironmen" will leave at 5:30 a.m. Saturday for the start will host a next meet at the Angela Athletic Facility next of their 9:30 morning marathon, and will return as Saturday at 1:00 p.m. Smith says "who knows when." WOMEN'S TRACK -The team learned some hard 
WOMEN'S GYMNASTICS -Although Notre Dame­lessons at Purdue's 16-team Invitational this past Saint Mary's finished in fourth place in a four-team meet weekend. "It was a very high quality meet," says club at SMC's Angela Athletic Facility over the weekend, president Lisa Monti, "and we were out of our league Brian McLaughlin, club president for men's and competing with top teams and programs from Illinois women's gymnastics, came away 9uite pleased with the and Kentucky. But this has motivated us in the sense it effort. "I thought te team performed quite well," he gives us a knowledge of where we stand and that now said, "considering that three of our top gymnasts we have certain times to shoot for. There will be better couldn't participate because of illness or injury." roads ahead of us." 
Southeast Missouri State won the meet with 13 7. 55 Nevertheless, Mary O'Connor and Nalini Rajamannan 
total points, while Wheaton and Valparaiso finished put in respectable times of 12: 16 and 13:01 in the two­
with 119.15 and 115.30 respectively. ND-SMC finished mile run, while the mile-relay team of Meg Conlan, 
with 77.6. Carrie Rowe, Rose Marie Luking and Mary Kennedy 
An outstanding individual show was put on, however, finished second in their heat. Debbie Long ran a 2:29.5 
by Notre Dame sophomore Denise McHugh. McHugh time in the 880 while Leslie Heineman finished with a 
captured first place in the balance beam with an 8.2 43:28 330-yard sprint. 
score while finishing in fourth place among 30 women 
in overall competition with 31.8 points. "The coach for Finally, the 4 x 220 relay team of Cathy Adams, 
Southeast Missouri (which has a top gymnastics Heineman, Susie Lee and Monti finished in a time of 
program with scholarships) was very impressed with 2:01.09 to give some hope for future meets. The next 

junior Paul McGowan shows the smooth firm that won him the 
two diving events over this past weekend. See summary on back page. (Photo by Cheryl Ertelt) 
... SUJitntners 
continuedfrom page 12 
St. Bonaventure's Thomas Oliva eclipsed the pool record in the 200­yard individual medley ( 2:00.3) and in the 200-yard breaststroke (2:14.1). 
McGowan finished first in the 3­meter (263 pts.) and second in the 1-meter (251.5 pts.) the previous dav as Notre Dame defeated Wes­te.:O Ontario, 63-51. 
Seven meet records were set during the evening, four by Western Ontario. Casey broke his own varsity record in the 200-yard butterfly for the tenth time with his 1:56.9. 
The Notre Dame women's team also sports a 4-2 record ater downing Westren Ontario, 70-61. The women trailed, 55-51, with just three events remaining. 
"They smoked us in the first event (the 400-yard medley) and they looked pretty tough," said Stark. "So 
it was very satisfying to come back 
and win." 
The 400-yard freestyle team ofco­captains Rita Harrington (senior) and Jean Murtaugh (junior) and seniors Lee Ann Brislawn and jeanine Blatt won in 3:51.3 to put the Irish ahead, and divers Sue O'Laughlin (senior) and Anna Marie Furrleigh (freshman) kept them on top. 
Qualifying for national competi­
tion were the 400-yard medley relay 
team ofBrislawn, Blatt, senior Kathy · 
Latino, and junior Teri Schindler; 
Blatt in the 150-yard freestyle; and 
Latino in the 200-yard butterfly. 
The women will compete in a 
double dual meet against Saint 
Mary's College and Kalamazoo Col­
lege this Saturday at 1 p.m. at Clay 
High School in South Bend. 

I 
t 
I 
I 
~ 
Denise and even was willing to offer her a scholarship if indoor meet will be February 19 at Eastern Michigan. 
NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION's 
ANNlJAL 

SPRING BREAKIN DAYTONA BEA~H 
MARCH 12-21, 1982 A,_,_,uty 
TRIP JNaUDES
ECHO TIIAVEL. INC. 

· Round trip mo10r coach tra115p0nalion via modem
MCJS1J711 

highwa~· coaches ro Daytona Beach. florida leaving SIX PER ROOM 
Friday, March 12, arriving the following day. The rerum trip depans the following Saturday arriving 
(3 DOUBLE BEDS) 
home Sunday.

.$197 
• Xvcn nights accommodalions ar the beautiful and exciting Plaza Hotel of Daytona Beach. Located a1 600 Nonh Allanric A~. ir is r~ mosr demanded 
FOUJI PER ROOM 

horel on rhe srrip a1 thar rime. (~ DOtJiii.i BEDS) -A truly great schedule of acrlvirics including our "Guaranteed klrchcncKe famous pool deck panics and belly flop c:onrcsr.
$209 
or oceanfront av.Ulable ar • Optional excunions available ro Disney World and small addirlonal.dwgc. several Ol~r atrractions. 
• Numerous bar and rntauranr discounts arranged in
SSO Deposit due Feb. 15 
Daytona Beach for you. 

• The services of full rime rravcl rcprcscnrativcs to
Full payment due .Feb. 22 
iii5Ure a trouble-free trip. 
• All raxcs and (llaluitie:s.

-Limitedspace available OUR TRIPSAREALWAYS THE BESTDEAL AND mE BEST TIME 
The PluaHocel, locared right inrhe middle olrbe IUip, Isdtftntrclyrbeplace robe durin& 'f'rlnl break. Ask aJJ)OIJC who tw tl«aro Daytona. The hoed twa podl, biJpanydcct, restaurant, four ban, color'IV, alrcondirloncd roomsandplcnryolacri\'itia. Pic:turaare availabkwllm:yousiJnup. OurIDOIOI'Coachcs are norhin8butrbe hlpcsrqualityhlghw3y coaches. We alsopyou more cxrruwirh ourtripdian anyone else:. Don't blowitand 80 
on a lowuquality trip. 

LASt Y&U OYER71PEOPLEHAD TllJJ1/MEM1HIIIllUFBONTHJS 'TRIP. 
SIGN UP NOW AT 1'81 
TICKET OFFICE/ 
RECORD STORE 10 AM 4 PM, MON. FRI• .OR fALL Z83-3031 


Ibe~r==================================== 
~~~~~-~===========================T=hu=r=s=da=y='=Fe=b=r=uary===4='=19=8=2===p=a=ge===ll
Molarity Michael Molinelli 
:I'V~ ALWAYS WANTED 

I'vE ALW4Y5 WAN'TEP 
10 HHP TilE: WoRLD 
To /..cARN HoW To 
Bt:c.OH£ A BE'TTEF? Pt...tc£ 
~EE'Z.E k)ITJ.I MY l:YE.S 
50 Pt;'OP/..c COUl-D Ui/£ 

OPEN 

J.IApPIER L-IVES 
Garry Trudeau 
MUT me!?£~[) 81U.Y808.~ 
OF 7HI3 BIUY 808 
CHRJSniW ACIWfMY 
IN PICKeNS, 501/TH CMIXINA .. 
/ 
Simon Jeb Cashin 




ACROSS 1 Seal 6 Overseer 
10 Members of 
the FBI 14 Misplay 15 Busy as­16 Valuation 17 Make allow­
ances lor 
20 British ship letters 
21 Face coverings 22 Map collec­
tion 23 Impression 24 Insincere 
speech 26 Become fond of 

The Daily Crossword 

29 Caricatures 50 Belief 33 Become one 52 Marriage 
34 Swine-like 
animal 35 Garland 36 Occupation 37 Actress 
Valentine 38 Sailboat 39 Native of: 
sull. 40 Hardens by heat 41 -powder 
(flee) 42 Has shares 44 Those who 
accept bets 45 Jai­46 Affectation 47 Supply with 
fuel 

©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 

words 55 Assumes as true 58 Top: sufl. 59 Period of 
temporary 
quiet 60 Famous 61 Color of 

some horses 62 To­(precisely) 63 Impedes 
DOWN 1 Son of Adam 2 Streetcar 
in London 3 Large boats 


19 Worker on chairs 23 Allot 25 Similar in nature 26 Cup-shaped flower 27 Bryant orLoos 28 A baseball 
Ralph 29 Weeds 30 Chip 
31 Less 32-Lapham 34 -on (vent 
anger on) 37 Colorful parrot 38 Long-haired oxen 
4 Stooge name 40 Bundles 5 Confiden-41 Plaids tial 43 Hire 
6 Process for 44 Row coloring 46 Point fabrics of view 
7 Old Greek 47 Feature 
coin 48 Mexican 8 Ocean views sandwich 9 Dry, as 49 Gumbo 
wine 51 A Gardner 10 Cave 52 Tell-the 11 Handle marines 
roughly 53 Profound 12 Volcano 54 Gambling in Sicily percentages 
13 Court 56 Neighbor dividers of Ga. 18 A Wolfe 57 In no way 
Campus 
•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, '"Might Manage A Sketch', Leopold Bloom as the author ofDubliners", Profes­sor Roy K. Gottfried, Vanderbuilt University, 117 Hagger Hall, Sponsored by James joyce Centenary Celebration 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, Finance Forum, Mr. Ri.>bcrt 

M. 
Conway, Goldman-Sachs and Company, Hayes Healy Auditorium 

•6:30 
p.m. -Meeting, AlESEC, LaFortune Little Theatre 

•7, 
9:30p.m.-Fllm, "Dr. Strangelove", Engineer­ing Auditorium, Sponsored by Social Concerns Film Series, .50 admission 

•7 
p.m. -Meeting, Notre Dame Circle K Club, LaFortune Little Theatre, All arc invited to attend 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, Finance Forum, Mr. Robert F. Anderson, Hanna Mining Company, Hayes Healy Auditorium 


T.V. Tonight 
8:00p.m. 
8:30 p.m. 
9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. 
10:00 p.m. 
10:30 p.m. 
11:00 p.m. 
11:30 p.m. 
12:00 a.m. 
12:30a.m. 
1:40 a.m. 16 l'amc 

22 Magnum, P.l. 
28 Mork and Mindy 
34 Sneak Previews 
46 Lester Sumrall Teaching 
28 Bosom Buddies 
34 This Old House 
46 Pattern l'or Living 
16 Dill' rent Strokes 
22  CBS  Special:  "The  Hunchback  of  
Notre Dame"  
28  Barney Miller  

34 Austin City Limits 
46 Today with Lester Sumrall 
16 Gimme A Break 
28 Taxi 

16 Hill Street Blues 
28 20/20 

34 Michigan Outdoors 
46 Jack Van lmpc 
34 Training Dogs The Woodhouse Way 
46 Faith !'or Today 
16 NewsCcnter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Ncwswatch 211 
34 The Dick Cavett Show 
46 Praise The Lord 
16 Tonight Show 
22 Quint·y/Thc Saint 
28 ABC News Night/inc 
34 Captioned ABC News 
28 Ve~as 

46 Lester Sumrall Teaching 16 !.ate Night With David Lcttt·rman 28 Vegas 46 Sharing 28 Late Night Ncwsbricf 
Today in History 
Today's highlight in history: 
In 1783, hostilities ended in the: Revolutionary War between the United States and Britain. On this date: In 1938, in Nazi Germany Adolf Hitler assumed 
the office of war minister and named Joachim von Ribbcntrop foreign minister. 
In 1964, China charged that the Sovit"t Union seeks world domination through a poli<:y of col· laboration with the United States. 
In 1977, U.S. intdligence officials said the United States and the Soviet Union were attempting to develop high-energy beams that could destroy nuclear mjssiles in tlight. 
And in 1979, Iran's Prime Minister Shahpour Bakhtiar said he would arrest Ayatollah Khomc:ini if the Moslem Provisional Government tried to take over the country. 
******************************************* 
: Auditions will be heldior this season's ! * * 
~ .. Student Players' Production ! 
~ * * ~ ''Cabaret'' !* * * 
* ~ ! .' ; !* * * 
~ Thurs., Feb. 4, 7:00 pm--SMC Regina Aud. :: 
* ~ All Actors, Singers, & Dancers Welcome/ !* 
******************************************* 
.....­
.. 


.. 


Thursday, February 4, 1982 -page 12 
Mullins, Hensley : The secret is out 
By MARK HANNUKSELA decision to enroll. No recruiter ever Sports Writer spent more than a few hours in Ok­lahoma City, Okla., or Wilmington, 
They call themselves "The Del., and to be sure, no mention ever Anonymous Guards," a pair of un­was made ofcars. known starters who, in this day of So how is it that such unknowns, play-for-pay, still get a kick out of walk-ons (yech) have come to com­playing hoops. mand the attentions ofthe media? 
For nearly seven weeks, they Their coach, Mary DiStanislao, toiled in relative obscurity, says they are leaders, tempo setters, beknownst only to coaches, experienced player s who are adept teammates and roommates, until at "feeling out the situation for a ball their ·cover was blown by one of game." those freaks of nature, an evil that That's as good an explanation as occupies the worst of a newspaper­any. They get the ball rolling, and 
man's nightmares: white space. when they tire, or when game condi­
Ablob ofbareness was just perfect tions dictate more height or better for a picture of Theresa Mullins shooters, they leave in favor of fighting for a loose ball with a pair of Dougherty and Neville, a pair of taller opponents. The caption told of backcourt players who would play an Irish win in which Mullins con­inside on many teams. tributed six points. When DiStanislao needs patience, 
Chances are, few if any noticed control, experience and leadership the print, buried in the middle of a on the floor, Mullins and Hensley 16-page paper. Notre Dame's best­return. kept secret was still safe. Often, their performances merit 
Predictably, though, it happened no special attention. But then what again. Space needed to be filled, and does? Score 1 7 points, or pull down a picture of Debbie Hensley doing 12 rebounds, or hand out eight as­
"The Anonymous," Theresa Mullins(left) and Debbi 
something she doesn't often do -sists, or be 6-2, and the average fan 
Hensley, have been large contributions to the success 
shoot -happened to be the filler. will notice. 
ofthis year's women's basketball team, although not 
Now the secret was out. The cat, Says Hensley, who stands 5-6 and so to speak, had been let out of the once scored four points in a game,New assistant bag. There are others -besides the "You never read in the paper Bates' and the Matveys and the 'Debbie Hensley set a pick.' The Schueths and the Kaisers -others average fan doesn't know to pull up 
who wear the royal blue and gold. on the fast break." These others came without all the "Or cut off the reverse," Mullins advance billing ofa Kaiser ora Doug­adds. By DAVE DZIEDZIC same wavelength. We have to put work. "I've watched many, many herty -no press releases an­This anonymous pair does, which 
Hudson hopes to help passing game 
our thoughts together with Coach game films," he says. "But right now, nounced their arrival on this in to See GUARDS, page 9
Sports Writer 
Faust's order provide a our main concern is recruiting." campus. No fuss was made over their Those who have criticized Notre 
balanced attack. Hudson has been on the road al­Dame's passing attack over the past "I think that I can introduce some most constantly since being hired. ,. few years might take heart in the ar­things to help the passing game," he Last week, he traveled from South 
Irish face Wayne State 
rival of Ron Hudson. adds. Bend to Philadelphia to Los Angeles 
Hudson, who recently was named Hudson, 36, is very enthusiastic to Portland, and back to South Bend. the quarterback and receiver coach about working under Faust. "It is an "And next week I have to do almost for the Irish, has spent many years honor to coach at Notre Dame, espe­the same thing," Hudson adds. 
aftertveekendstveep
cially for Coach Faust," he says. But travel and hard work are not
working with the offensive back­field. "Notre Dame has had some great new to Hudson. "I'm not married, so By BOB CASTELLO Irish will move· on to Toledo on 
"Everyone has his strengths and quarterbacks over the years. Frank­have a lot oftime to spend working," Sports Writer Saturday for a 2 p.m. clash with the weaknesses," Hudson says. "I con­ly, I'm a little nervous about having he says. "I definitely consider myself Rockets. sider my main strength to be the pas­to help carry on such a great tradi­to be a hard worker.'' Riding a two-meet winning streak, After a weekend sweep of the 
tion. But I think I'm up to the task." Hudson doesn't anticipate any the Notre Dame men's swimming teams from St. Bonaventure and
sing game." A look at Hudson's coaching Even though he's only been here a problems adjusting to life under the team travels to Detroit tomorrow Western Ontario, the men's record record would seem to indicate that few weeks (he was hired on jan. 5), for a 7 p.m. dual ·meet stands at 2-4. Both wins were im­See HUDSON, page 9 especially
he knows his stuff. Prior to coming Hudson has already been hard at Wayne University. From there, the pressive, Saturday's come-from-behind victory over the
to Notre Dame, Hudson spent three Bonnies.
years at UCLA under Head Coach "We're two Catholic schools, and
Terry Donahue. Before that, Hudson In recent action this was the strongest team they'vecoached at Stanford, the University ever had," said Irish head coach
of California (under then-Head Dennis Stark of the Notre Dame-St. 
.. Coach Mike White) and at the Uni­Bonaventure rivalry. "We've had
Skiers, spikers impress foes
versity ofOregon. 
more meets go down to the end with"Ron comes to us highly recom­them than with any other team."
mended by a number of head SKIERS SEEK INVITATION" TO NATIONALS -A ; 
coaches," says Irish Head Coach little extra weight in Notre Dame's traveling van didn't• Saturday's meet was no excep­tion, as it went right down to the last
Gerry Faust, "including Bill Walsh of seem to bother the members ofthe ND-SMC Ski Club on the San Francisco 49ers." its return home from the Ohio State Championships this 
event -the 400-yard freestyle Even though Hudson never past weekend. On the road trips for the squad, it's not relay. Going into the event, the two worked for Walsh, he has learned a uncommon for the team to squeeze 20 skiers into the teams were tied, 53-53, but the Irish lot about passing from the coach of van for rough trips beyond the state line. This weekend relay team of senior Mike the Super Bowl Champions. "I am a little extra company joined the team on its way back Shepardson, juniors Gary Severyn 
from Ohio -M"EN'S-VOLLEYBALL TAKES SECOND IN TOURNEY and Greg Bohdan, and sophomore Al
fortunate to be a friend of Bill's," namely, five trophies. The trophies also -Forgive any member of the volleyball team if he Harding emerged victoriousHudson said. "I approach the passing may not be an uncommon sight for the team this year. 
should happen to smirk when the Bookstore Basketball (3:14.7) to give Notre Dame a 60-53game in much the same way that "In the past we usually started slow and came on Tourney is referred to as the "Ironman Tourney." From
Walsh does." strong in the latter part of the year," comments club decision. 
10:00 a.m.

By hiring Hudson, Faust divided president Barry Tharp. "This year we have started really to 9:30 p.m. last Saturday, the team par­Harding was also a winner in the 
ticipated in 12 games and assisted in the refereeing 200-yard freestyle ( l :46.2 ). "He hadthe post held by Tom Lichtenberg well." Indeed they have, especially the Irish women's without taking any form ofbreaks, food or otherwise. to compete against their two best
last season. Lichtenberg, who team, which captured the Governor's Cup by finishingwas But it seems like it was worth it for the club's presi­
the offensive coordinator and quar­in first place overall in the 12-team meet. The women of swimmers and he won," said Irish as­Saint Mary's finished third. dent, B~ry Smith, who was somewhat skeptical of this sistant John Komora. "That was the
terback and receiver coach last year, 
year's team that was depleted by graduation after past turning point."
4 will now be able to concentrate on Leading the Notre Dame effort was freshman Kate successes. "We surprised ourselves," says Smith. "Now I Notre Dame did not take the leadthe head offensive job. Gaffney who captured the bronze medal among 50 think we should be very competitive in our league ifwe until the seventh event, the 200­"We didn't want our coordinator women in the giant-slalom. Classmate Julie Currie and 
keep our practice schedule up well." yard butterfly. Senior co-captainto be the quarterback coach also," sophomore Teresa Abrams also had top performances. 
The Irish wrapped up first place in the preliminaries Don Casey finished first ( 1:58.4) andFaust says. "Tom will also coach the Saint Mary's was also led by a bronze-medal slalom per­by defeating Calvin College, Fort Wayne Bible College, sophomore Dan Flynn secondoffensive backfield. This enabled us formance by sophomore Colleen Dwyer. Senior Sharon Oakland (Mich.) University, Central Michigan and ( 1 :59.8) to give the Irish a 33-28to move Greg Blache (last year's of­Smiggen and freshman Kathleen Pape were also 
a close lead.
fensive backfield coach) to the represented with top scores for the team. Michigan before losing 1 5-13 decision to 
Bowling Green. Notre Dame got revenge in the playoffs Other outstanding performancesdefense, where we really wanted The men finished in third place overall, also out of 12 over Bowling Green with a 15-17, 15-9, 16-14 triumph were posted by Shepardson, who
him." teams and with over 100 participants. Leading the team in the semi-finals, but were the revengees in the final as captured first in the 50-yardIf that sounds confusing to you, iri the giant slalom were senior Steve Hilbert, junior they were defeated by Calvin College 18-16, 10-l 5, 11-(:22.58)
you're not alone. But what it all boils Sean Chandler and sophomore Mike Maas. Chandler and 100-yard (:49.55) down to is that Hudson will be and Maas also led the team in the slalom along with 15. freestyle events, and ·junior Paul 
Clark Gibson and Mark Stewart were cited for out­McGowan, who won both the !­
working with Lichtenberg to fortify freshman Phil Stenger. "We are only going to get bet­standing setting for the spikes ofjohn Klebba and Kevin meter (243.5 pts.) and 3-meterthe Irish passing attack. ter," says Tharp confidently, "and are goal will be to be Hinders. Klebba and Hinders were also top blockers on (259.75 pts.)divingevents.
"It will be important," says Hud­invited to the National Championships in Idaho in late son, "that Tom and I stay on the February. The women will have even a better chance." See CLUBS, page 10 See SWIMMERS, page 10 

