• .Malnutrition-page 3 

VOL. XVII, NO. 57 the intlependcnt ~tudcnt new~paper ~en·ing nutrt: damc and saint mary·~ WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1982 
'Fantastic voyage' 
Spaceshuttle ends fifth journey 
EDWARDS AIR FORCE BASE, Lenoir deployed two communica­peared pleased with what they saw. Calif. (AP) -The space shuttle tions satellites last week Brand com­Although the space walk was returned to Earth yesterday as a mented that the only flight scrubbed, Columbia accomplished tried-and-true carrier ofspace cargo. objectives left were an EVA its primary goals as a carrier, then a its commander exulting, "Yes sir, we (extravehicular activity) and a lan­launch platform for two com­deliver." With dawn's early light ding. Allen said he responded. "Ifwe munications satellites. The satellites shining off the American flag on its have to make a choice, we want a were deployed on flight days one side, the shuttle cut through desert safe landing. It turned out we made and two. Their own rockets then clouds to a centerline landing. that choice." sent them to their "stationary" orbit 
"We've been on a fantastic 22.300 miles above the equator.
Thirty minutes after touchdown,voyage," Vance Brand said. 
the astronauts -Brand, pilot Robert The space walk scheduled for mis­
Making it look easy, the spacecraft 

Overmyer. Allen and Lenoir -sion specialists Lenoir and Allen was 
commander steered Columbia over 

stepped from the ship that had been abandoned when both their S2 mil­
California's Mojave Desert and 

their home for five days. Waving and lion suits malfunctione t d. Ifit cannot glided to a smooth stop with more 
smiling, they bounced jauntily. one be worked into flight six, it will be than 5.000 feet ofconcrete left. 
after the other, down a stair ramp, scheduled for flight seven, Abraham­"You certainly lived up to the 
walked around Columbia and ap-son said. motto on this flight," Roy Bridges, at the console in Mission Control, told the astronauts. The motto. repeated often during the flight, was "We Deliver." 
Visual arts as a means 
Columbia flight five was the first operational mission of the world's first reusable spacecraft. With more 


for protest discussed 
than 10 million miles on its flight log, the ship will undergo a 10-By KATHY WEISENBERGER Hughs presented slides of various 
month overhauL News Staff paintings of post-World War II Ger­Challenger, the next ship in the many and revolutionary Russia, fleet, is being readied at Cape "The static visual arts -that is to which characterized the sudden ex­
Canaveral to take the next three say sculpture and painting -have plosion of political art that occured flights, beginning with flight six Jan. only the smallest effects on politics, in the 1920's. 
24. James A. Abrahamson. NASA·s as­if any in fact," said Robert Hughs, The renowned art critic stated sociate administrator for space Time magazine's art critic, last night that the "fundamental reality of that tlight, said the space walk scrubhed in a lecture in the Annenberg war (World War II) was waste." on Monday because of malfunction­Auditorium of the Snite Museum. Therefore one of the key images of ing space suits may be taken then "if Hughs began his presentation political art in Germany at that time we are certain we understand exact­with a humorous reference to was that of cripples. In one such ly went wrong and have corrected sculptor Robert Morris, who painting, "Card-Playing War 
it." declared that ifthe bombing ofCam­Cripples," each ofthe central figures Mission specialist Joseph Allen bodia in the Vietnam war did not was grotesquely disfigured, incom­
recalled that after he and William cease, he would cancel one of his art plete, "composed ofspare parts." exhibitions. The fact that the bom­The figures represented a people bing did nor end, Hughs pointed our, "stripped of idealism and filled with supports the idea that "art doesn't political cynicism about the causes 
change politics." What art does, of war." The recurring "image of the rather. is to underly the social head as a locus of expression," as structure and provide a model for pathetic and disembodied,

Wholesale prices climb in October 
free thinking. symbolized the target of German socialism.
WASHl;\IGTON (AP) -Spurred continumg grip on me economy. For all of 1981. prices at the Compari .ng Judy Chi<.ago's 
artwork "Dinner Party" to Tup­The art of Russia at the time ofthe
by higher costs for new cars, Car and truck production fell I 7 wholesale level surged 7 percent wholesale prices rose 0. 5 percent in percent from September. following an 1I.H percent rise the perware, Hughs affirmed that not Bolshevik Revolution, Hughs stated, 
everyone is an artist, contrary to attempted to alleviate any obscurity
October. the government said yes­In remarks prepared for delivery year before. contemporary thought. On the perceived by the commmon people
terday. The modest increase, while to the U.S. League ofSavings Associa-Private economists said there is a reversing an actual drop the pre­good chance that wholesale prices other hand, "all good, political art is -to make art "open to everybody,"
tions in New Orleans, President 

intrinsically elitist"; it must possess a and "dialectics concrete." The style
vious month, was seen as "good t<>r all of I9H2 will be at their lowest
Reagan, citing figures showing per­

news" at the White House, but a levels in years. high degreee ofquality.
sonal savings are at their highest See ARTS, page 3related report showed another slip levels in six years, said, "The turn­in factory output and portended around in your industry signals a more layoffs and lingering recession. 
turnaround for the rest of the 

Recentassaults 

economy -and that's mighty good ·,1Despite laM month's comparative 
news for America." 
surge, wholesale inflation stands at a 

SMCsecuri~y increasesproposed tt l ! ! 
Reagan bemoaned high federal :.4'
modest annual pace of 3.3 percent detkits and said that in preparing a
for the first 10 months. October's 

fiscal 1984 budget plan, "difficult By MARY ANN POTIER tempted assault, the first thing he or that the one rape that has occurred \ I rate would translate to 5.7 percent if choices lie ahead. They will require StaffReporter she should do is run to the nearest in the past ten years occurred on the .·. I 
it held for a year. . !
residence hall to. phone security. nature trail when a student was jog­Continually moderating food and To deal with the recent attempted "The main concern is that you do ging alone in the early morning fuel prices were more than offset by He also said he will have no part in assaults to students, the Saint Mary's make reports as quickly as possible," hours. the spurt in prices for new cars and 
political courage." 

any move by Congress "to take away security department is increasing stated Kovatch. "This will give the Heisler remarked, "When you are trucks as manufacturers terminated the third vear of the people's tax security, edttcating students on the security guards time to act." jogging alone, you are asking for discounts given to dealers in Sep­cut," a ref~rence to a scheduled 1'0 aspects of security and offering At 1:50 a.m. yesterday, a student trouble." One suggestion that tember to clear away inventories of percent cut in individual income tax advice for the students' safety. was followed in by someone in a Kovatch stressed for safety was not 
1982 models. rates next July L An informal discussion was held green Charger, the type ofcar driven to walk alone in dark areas. Only
The boost in October followed a Sen. Pete Domenici of New

V. bc;:tween students and Director of by the suspect in the Nov. 5 assault. once has any security guard used a 
0.1 percent decline in wholesale Mexico, Republican chairman ofthe Security Anthony Kovatch, Director The incident was not reported until gun in apprehending a suspect. In prices the month before. But deputy Senate Budget Committee, told the Robert andof Personnel Foldesi, 1:55. According to Kovatch, the inci­1975, a Holy Cross resident was the White House press secretary Peter same New Orleans audience that 

Public Relations Representative dent should be reported right away victim of an attempted rape in her Roussel said the Labor Department's budget deficits of S200 billion Karen Heisler to inform the students so that security can catch anything room by an intruder with a gun. The
or 

report was "good news," and more are likely through 1986. of the security department's actions looking suspicious. girl contacted security immediately"indicates we're winning the battle To combat the deficit, Domenici on the attempted assaults. Students After being notified of any occur­after freeing herself and gave a against inflation." called for a fee on imported oil and a were also given the opportunity to 
rences, the Saint Mary's Security description ofthe assailant. In another report, however, the review of plans to automatically ad­express their views on the subject. Kovatch the suspect
Department will next try to get as identified Federal Reserve Board said produc­just income taxes to offset inflation. 
Because of the recent security complete a report as possible on the from the description and ap­

tion in 'the nation's factories and 

problems, the security department incident. It is up to the student to prehended him with no gunfire. Cne mines fell O.H percent in October, If wholesale price inflation con­has increased foot patrols in the decide whether to press charges if guard from each security st!ft 
the 13th such decline in the last 15 tinues at the pace set from January parking lots within the past two the subject is apprehended. carries a gun, which is used more as months. through October, it would be the weeks. Kovatch is proposing to in­There have been no attempted as­a deterrent than a weapon accordingThe falloff was the steepest in that smallest full-year gain since 1971, crease the number of men on each saults on the Saint Mary's campus for to Kovatch. 

category since a I. 1 percent when the producer prices rose 3.1 

shift from two to three in the next several years. "The last time we had Some students attending the dis-decrease of last April. providing an­percent, and would beat the 3.7 per­btldget proposal. an assault was seven or eight yearsother si;.;nal of the recession's cent showing of 1976. 
If a stucent is the victim of an at-ago," Kovatch said. He also noted See SECURI1Y, page 4 






News Brie/§ 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
An exhibit of architectural photography has opened in the O'Shaughnessy Gallery ofthe Snite Museum ofArt and will continue until December 19. Jack Hedrick, president of the Hedrick-Blessing architectural firm of Chicago, will discuss his profession at a 4 p.m. talk tomorrow in the Annenberg Auditorium. Included in the exhibit are several photos in the firm's collecton that date back to 1930. Represented are buildings ofFrank Lloyd Wright, Louis Sullivan, Mies VanDer Rohe, Buckminster Fuller, Eliel Saarinen and the firm ofSkidmore, Owings and Merrill. The Sniite Museum is open daily until 4 p.m. and until8 p.m. on Thursdays with the excep­tion ofThanksgving Day.-The Observer 
Lebanon Independence Day will be ob­served at the University of Notre Dame tomor!'ow with a panel dis­cussion focusing on "Lebanon of the Future." The program at 7:30 
p.m. in the Center for Continuing Education is open to the public. Speakers will be Ambassador Fakhri Saghieyeli ofthe United Nations; AttorneyJoseph Hayeck, executive director ofWorld Lebanese Cul­tural Union, U.S. National Council; Joseph Jaoudi, chairman of Americans for Lebanon Political Action, and George Antoon, presi­dent of the Midwest Federation ofAmerican-Lebanese Syrian Clubs. The program is sponsored by the American Lebanese Club of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Colleg<:. -The Observer 
Woody Woodpecker, the feathered frenzy who pecked his way into the heart, ofAmerica, took his place ofhonor in the Smithsonian Institution yesterday. Cartoonist Walter Lantz presented the National Museum of American History with 17 ob­jects documenting the creation and first appearance ofWoody. Born as a supporting character in an Andy Panda cartoon in 1940, Woody's antics later elevated him to stardom. Items donated to the museum for permanent display include a movable wooden model of the woodpecker, a story board and full-color illustrations for that initial 1940 cartoon, "Knock, Knock." In the museum's entertain­ment collection, Woody joins puppets Howdy Doody and Charlie McCarthy and such other items as one ofJimmy Durante's hats, the ruby slippers worn byJudy Garland in The Wizard ofOz and one of Archie Bunker's chairs from the "All in the Family" television series. 
-AP 

Virginia Electric & Power Co. has cancelled construction ofa nuclear generating unit, saying it has been "priced out of the market" by expensive regulations. "Both public attitude and the regulatory climate would have to change significantly before this company would consider any further nuclear construction," Vepco President William W. Berry said at a news conference Mon­day. Berry said a "massive outpouring" ofregulations by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission after the Three Mile Island nuclear accident was behind the decision to cancel Unit 3 at the company's North Anna power station. He said the cost of implementing these regula­tions, which have added at least $1 billion to the unit's cost, could more than double the final price tag on North Anna 3. "Because of this huge increase in estimated costs, we have concluded that North Anna 3 should be canceled immediately," he said. He said Vepco would seek art ate increase to cover the S540 million writeoffcosts. If the rate increase is not approved, the company would write off the 
loss in 1983, and the impact on earnings would be "material," said Paul Edwards, vice president ofpublic affairs. Berry said a growth in customer demand for electricity will be met during the latter part of this decade by purchasing excess power from utilities in neighbor­ing states. -AP 
An 11-year-oldColumbus, Ohio girl charged with stab­bing to death a 14-year-old playmate in an argument over a video game has pleaded guilty to a reduced charge of involuntary manslaughter. The girl, Shevon Jones, made no comment Monday when she appeared before Juvenile Court Judge John Hill. She remained at the Franklin CountyJuvenile Detention Center pending sentencing. Under the plea, she may be kept in custody until she is 21, court officials said. Charles Moore, 14, was stabbed Oct. 29 after the two argued over the video game Krazy Kong. Police said the two had been arguing in a coin laundry and were told to leave after the argument developed into a shovia.g match. Moore's body was found on the sidewalk outside the laundry a short time later. Friends said Miss Jones had carried a steak knife since the rape and slaying of another girl about three weeks earlier. Miss Jones had been scheduled for trial Monday. But after a plea-bargaining session. prosecutor Fred Mann moved to amend the charge to involuntary manslaughter while committing a felonious assault. -AP 
Wednesday, November 17, 1982 -page 2 
Don't compromise your safety 
The November 5 assault at Saint Mary's and another incident there this weekend have many people worried about the quality ofsecurity at the College. While it is the job of the security department to oversee resident protection, this doesn't mean that students shouldn't take on some responsibility themselves. We can all take a number ofcommon-sense preventive measures to im­
prove our own safety. 

First, it seems no matter how many times students are warned, they continue to walk and jog alone outside at night. This is senseless because, obviously, a lone unknowing victim is often at the mercy of a potential assailant. Some may complain about the state of the world when we have reached the point that we are afraid to go outside alone at night. Regardless, the fact is that it is dangerous, and anyone foolish enough to stray outside alone at night should not be surprised if tragedy strikes. 
Walking or jogging in groups (the bigger the group 
the better) is the only sensible move ifone really must 
be outside at night. 

Also, stude <tts should not walk back and forth be­
tween Notre Dame and Saint Mary's at night. The 
cemetary road is very isolated and, although well lit and 
well populated, quite dan­gerous. There have been incident altogether. numerous incidents along The importance of the road in the past and, remaining calm in the event short ofhiring armed patrol­of an assault cannot be men, little can be done to stressed enough. By becom­improve the situation. If it's ing hysterical, the victim on­too late for the shuttle, stu­ly increases the chances of 
dents should get a ride from the assailant panicking and NO Security, even if this taking violent measure~. means waiting a little while. One of the victims in the Isn't your safety worth a recent assault became hys­short wait? terical, thus delaying com­
Ifyou happen to be a Saint munication of the existence Mary's student parking a car of another victim. Remain­on campus at night, use the ing calm and coherent could escort system. It's there for determine whether the as­student utilization. The is­sailant is caught. olated Angela lot is one of Aseries ofmeetings in the the most potentially dan­residence halls concerning ge· ms parts of campus, and campus security is 
tl" lovember 5 hcident proved it. Students should call se.:urity from the phone in the parking lot and wait in their locked cars with the headlights on until security arrives. Again, this may involve a short delay, but it is worth it. 
There is no guarantee that two students together are any sater than a lone potential victim. An assailant could strike two victims just as easily as one, as the recent assault proved. 
Saint Mary's administration should reconsider the rule barring students from parking in the LeMans lot during the week. While students are forced to walk from the Angela lot, the safer LeMans lot remains vir­tually empty at night. Even allowing a limited number of students to park in the LeMans lot (such as was the policy last year) reduces the odds ofan assault. 
Saipt Mary's also might consider adding to its present two evening car patrol officers. Considering the various time-con~uming building lock-up duties of the officers, in addition to the necessity for the escort system, the rest of the campus could very well find security com-

Margaret Fosmoe SMC Ezecutive Editor 
Inside 

p1"mised at times. Ifthe no-parking rule for the LeMans I is to remain, perhaps one officer designated solely as 
-;cort b neces· J.f}'. 
tother impor1 .nt element ofsecurity is the student bo y itself. Students should be alert. Take note of people and vehicles. Be suspicious if you see something or someone lurking around campus. Contact security if you notice anything unusual. 
It is the job of the security department to check out ~uch reports. By not contacting security in such cases, you might be endangering the safety ofothers or even yourself. One of the victims of the November 5 inci­dent, for example, saw a suspicious car on campus before October break similar to the one used in the as­sault. However, she did not report it. Reporting the car 
might have prevented the 

<;cheduled. Security Director Anthony Kovatch, Public Relations Officer Karen Croake Heisler, and Personnel Director Robert Foldesi will be meeting with students this week and next to talk about security policies, offer advice, and answer questions. 
The first meeting was held in Regina last night. The rest ofthe dorm meetings: tomorrow, McCandless; Sun­
day, LeMans; and Monday, Holy Cross. All the meetings are at 10 p.m. in the hall lounges. 
The recent incidents at ~aint Mary's have caused con­cern on the part ofmany students and faculty members. Many valid questions have been raised about security 
. ;:>!icy and procedure at the College. The concern :>Oould not stop there. Students and faculty members 
:1ould let members of the administration know they .. ~e concerned. If you are worried about the quality of secw tty, let someone hear about it. 

The Observer 
Design Editor ........................... Kay Holland Layout Staff....................... Brigette Goulet Typesetters ............................. Reggie Daniel 
AI Novas News Editor .................................. Vic Sciulli Copy Editor .................................. Tim Neely Features Layout ........................ Tari Brown Editorials layout ......... Mike McCaughey Sports Copy Editor .............. Mike Riccardi Typist ....................................... Mary Torchia AdDesign ....................................... Paul Slota Photographer ............................... Ed Carroll Guest Appearances ........... Thomas Moore 
"I know to much to. go back and pretend..." 
$1°0 off with this ad-expires Dec.IS. 1982 
your flower alternative 

Call (219) 232-0302 Customized baBoon/basket arrangements for free delivery for every occasion: birthdays. getwells. in St. Joe. County hofidays. hostess gifts, professional/ 
promotional decorations. 
Call now tor Thanksgiving and Christmas 

Sunny today and mild. High in low to mid 50s. Tonight there is-a 20 percent chance of rain towards morning. Low in mid 30s. Cloudy tomorrow with chance ofrain. High in low 50s. -AP 
The Observer !USPS 598 9201 IS published Monday through Fnda y and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Marys Col· lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year 1S15 per semester) by wnt1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. fno1ana 46556 
The Observer 

Long lines are a part of registration but these students don't seem to have a long wait ahead of them. Registration or next semester's courses, 
'Is curable' 


World hunger situation addressed 
By TOM PACE 
News Staff 
Malnutrition, the most serious of our world hunger problems, is curable, according to Economics Department Chairman Charles K. Wilbur, who addressed the world hunger issue last night in LeMan Hall at Saint Mary's. 
" I. 3 billion people go to bed hungry every night, and that's overwhelming, but more important­ly, between 100 and 300 million people are irreparably damaged by malnutrition," he said. "A few billion dollars, which is peanuts in today's society, could solve the problem." 
The world hunger problem can be broken down into three separate problems in Wilbur's eyes. The first problem is that of overpopulation, which is followed by a lack of effi­cient means for food production in third-world countries and inade­quate transportation. 
Wilbur believes that the astound­ing birth rates which exist in certain areas of the world cannot be checked by distributing methods of birth control to the people. "Birth rates are connected with structures of the economy, and the best way of helping a country is the develop­ment of its economy," Wilbur asserted. 
Wilbur supported his position by making an example of Thailand. According to Wilbur, people in that country want to have as many children as possible because quite often children produce more than they take in. Wilbur also made a point of the system of land owner­ship in Thailand, which basically fol­lows squatters' rights. "In Thailand, everybody wants to have the most sons possible to protect their land holdings." 
As far as productive means are 
concerned, devices such as tractors 
and harvesters are not the missing 
ingredient, in Wilbur's view. Third­
world countries are rich in inex­
pensive labor; what they need are 
more efficient means of extracting 
greater amounts of food from the 
soil, he asserted. 
The last major problem, and pos­
sibly the most pressing, is the lack of 

good transportation systems in these less developed countries. According to the professor, we have plenty of food to feed the entire population of the word many times over, but famine is most often caused by inaccessibility caused by lack of a good transport system. Food often rots before it reaches its destination. 
Wilbur could not suggest met­hods for solving the hunger problem completely. In fact, Wilbur does not believe hunger can ever be erad­icated from the earth. However, he does suggest that the United States could do its part. "There's an inter­mediate group of countries who won't make it on their own, but with a little help could make it. That's 
where we should concentrate our efforts." 
"One possible answer," suggested Wilbur, "is a move toward greater self-sufficiency in countries around the world which would develop a much more secure economy in many of these countries which now rely •Jpon cash crops for a great por­tion oftheir income." 
Wrongful-trial suit 


New York man to receive settlement 
NEW YORK (AP)-Isidore Zim­merman may soon be a rich man, but it cost him 25 years in prison and nine months on death row for a mur­der he did not commit. 
Zimmerman, who spent 20 years unemployed or doing odd jobs after his release, has won a damage suit charging that New York State wrongly convicted him. Now 64, jobless and ailing, he is waiting to find out how much he will collect. 
The former death row inmate, living in Queens on S95 a week in unemployment benefits that are about to run out, won a summary judgment in the state Court of Claims on Nov. 9. The judgment meant that the court agreed with Zimmerman's contentions that a state prosecutor had tried him for a murder the prosecutor knew he did not commit, and suppressed evidence that proved him innocent. 
The only unresolved issue is how much money Zimmerman will get from the state. His suit asks SIO mil­lion in damages for wrongful im­prisonment. 
His lawyer, Fred Fabricant, said that the Court of Claims has yet to set a d.tte for determining the size of 
the settlement, but he said Zimmer­man c~uld be counting his money before year's end. 
Fabricant said his fee will be from 20 percent to 33 percent of the settlement, depending on the amount. Testimony of expert wit­nesses will cost Zimmerman an addi­tional $2,000 to S4,000. 
If Zimmerman wins anywhere near n 0 million, it would be the lar­gest settlement for wrongful im­prisonment in New York State history, and possibly in U.S. history, Fabricant said. 
The odds against winning such a suit are formidable. Most states have nearly impenetrable legal barriers protecting prosecutors, police and judges from wrongful imprisonment suits. 
Such barriers can be cleared only 
if the state legislature passes a spe­
cial bill allowing an individual like 
Zimmerman to sue the state for 
damages. Zimmerman got such a bill 
passed in July 1981, leading to the 
suit he has now won. 
In 1937, Zimmerman, then 19 and 
getting ready to go to Columbia Uni­
versity on a football scholarship, was 
convicted of kiUing a policeman on 
the Lower East Side of New York af­
ter the prosecutor, Jacob J. 
Rosenbloom, intimidated witnesses 
into perjuing themselves. 
He spent nine months on death 
row. He was an hour away from dying in the electric chair when then-Gov. Herbert Lehman commuted his sentence to life. For 24 years and eight months, Zimmer­man served time, smuggled in law books that in those days were con­sidered contraband for prisoners, and finally proved his innocence. 

Prison fights left Zimmerman half blind in one eye. He is now being treated for Cushing's Syndrome, a rare, sometimes fatal glandular disease that causes weakness and susceptibility to bleeding. 
In the years after his release from prison in 1962, jobs were scarce and usually short-lived after employers lt:arned he had done time. He is cur­rently on disability leave from his latest job as a midnight-to-8 a.m. doorman 
r------woRo'Sv'5TEM"s'--l 
modern equipment affordable i 
~  Secretarial/  ~  
~  Word Processing Services  ~  
i Experienced secretaries,  i  

~ r typing; research manuscripts~ ~ (term papers, theses, articles/~ l books for publication). ~ 
~Resumes. Student discounts. ~ ~pe/ling corrections. r ~ (219) 272-8355 l ~ Free pick-up and delivery i 
~~,......~~...............,....,..~..1 
Wednesday, November 17, 1982 -page 3 

Gene-splicings on humans seen as feasible treatment 
WASHINGTON (AP) New gene-splicing techniques may be used to treat human beings, the ex­ecutive director of a presidential commission studying ethical issues in genetic engineering told Congress yesterday. 
.\ ~xander M. Capron told a House Sdc. :e and Tehnology subcommit­tee that the commission has studied various ways that gene-splicing could be used to treat people. 
The one nearest to development is · production of useful drugs, (;apron said, noting that gene­
·licing <·ventually could be used to 
~nose genetic diseases and, at "Jme point even further away, curing such diseases. 
The President's Commission for the Study of Ethical Problems in ~~edicine and Biomedical and Be­l vioral Research began its work in 
10. Then, there was great concern a11."ng religious groups that no governmental body was controlling the ethical qu~tions involved. 
Capron said the commission feels some of this concern is well founded. ~everthcless, it has not tound in the !l,ene-splicing now being pl;.nned any "fundamental danger" to human values or ethical principles, a prospect that has alarmed some people, he said. 
Some ofthe concerns arose from a c.Jmparison of gene splicing to fic­tiunal creatures such as Frankenstein and the Sorcerer's Ap­p-Pntice, he said. In those stories, a tk 'elopmnlt intended to be benefi­oai proved to be dangerous when it got out ofcontrol. 
The Frankenstein analogy leads some people to fear a strange new life lurm, he said. "In the end, it is the potential human uses of the tech­nique that are on people's minds," he said. 
Genetically engineered drugs will be expensive, as ~hou by the human insulin that recently h;L~ become available, Capron w;"Jrned. 
In using gene-~plicing techniques ..ure genetic disorders, the condi­
is attacked not with drugs, but .•Y altering the cause of the condi­tion itsel[ ··such steps have not yet been successfully undertaken, but they are coming closer every day," ( ">ron said . 
. . .Arts 
event.
continuedfrom page 1 

The cnuc claimed that in pre­of the paintings descended from the vious times, people could not ac­Russian icon, "strict, hierarchical, quire information from print or other-worldly," and the artists .. 
hoped for a "sort of millennium of frtelevtston, and therefore obtained it 
consciousness." om both speech and the static 
visual arts. This accounted for the 

In spite of these painting~. enormous power that political art 
however, Hughs said that neither .encompassed. type was efficacious; neither eliminated the existing social With the advent of the camera structures. however, and its stark objectivity: 
Hughs felt that the last major mass media took away the politicalpainting to affect how people view 
speech ofart. "We still have political the world is Picasso's "Guerrinica," art, but we don't expect it to be as his only painting about a historical politically effective as we once did." 
"Excellent. The food was wonderful­service. excellent-and the salad 
, 

was grea to O,£....:. uJ.-,.,~ M"lo•M·•' 
'>1 )..,..,.., M•lllljolll 

'Thank you. thank you. thank you 1 Great food and service ... golly. //..,/like lami/v1" 
~~.• ~....,, 
'-11-.h.M,tl..olntk.ln•l 
"I really en1cwd the sole and SiJ/ad. Service was e>:cellent...I'll be back .. as our '>elliug Our ..tar£ ;,. dedicated to pmviding \.(JU with the finest
~_...,...:1'~<~ 
dining experience to he found anvwhert• at

M• c;....,91'( ~ ..... Cr>kN.diPJ M,.l'uqdll an affordable pr1ce Next time vou plan to dine out. visJIIJS at Tippecanoe Place. Y<>u 'II likt• th(' wav IN'l' make th~· occcJSion §peciaJ:• 

Ot.<~1 w~
R • ..,H...r-..l~~o I l"~c;, M •• kMoll•"""ofli,..,,..,,,IM,"u"" 



r-------------------------,
TIPPECANOE 
PLACE~
RESTAURANT 
ANY TWO (2) DINNER ENTREES 





JUST$1995 
You cart save up to S13.45 

620 W wa..hmgton. South BE"nd 234-9077 
R~?Wrvahon., d\.iulabll? 

Presenl this coupon when ordering and pay just $19.951or two entrees of your choice. 
Offer good during dinner hours every evening through 
December 30, 1982. except Thanksgiving Day. November 25, 
1982. Coupon expires December 30. 1982. Not valid in 
conjunction with any other special offers or lor banquets. Does 
not include items not normally served with the entrees. tax or tip. 
llffl2(r.nh....,l.ll~••mSI..........., .. .. 



··------------------------· 


The Observer Wednesday, November 17, 1982 -page 4 
Catholic institutions 
Social obligation stressed 
abstract term; it exemplifies prac­Catholic faculty members. The uni­
By MARY EILEEN KENNEY 
ticality. versity's views, however, as a whole
StaffReporter 
The Catholic college or university must not be non-denominational; it must become a part of this must retain the Catholic tradition.
For a college or university to be sacramentality by "exemplifying
truly Catholic it must fulfill its Ultimately, because Vatican II es­Christ and his teachings in their
obligations to the church in social tablishes the church as "a herald, a modes of decision-making, invest·
doctrine, according to a Notre Dame celebrant of the kingdom, a witness, ment, employment and community
theology professor. 
and a servant to social doctrine,"interaction."
In his speech "What Makes a Col­then the true Catholic university orBecause Vatican IIestablishes thatlege Catholic," Father Richard P. 
college must obligate itself to fulfillthe church "embraces more thanMcBrien, the Crowley-O'Brien­Catholics," the Catholic college or its responsibilities in advocating theWalter professor of theology at the also employ mission ofthe church.
university, emphasized university must
University non· President Father ,Theodore Hes­burgh's view that a college or uni­versity's excellence is 

Roemer, HPC discuss
two-dimensional. It must be an ex­cellent educational institution, while fulfilling the requirements ofa 


·NDalcohol policies
truly excellent Catholic college or university. At the inception of the lecture, 
By DAVE TRACY student alcohol abuse that I have
McBrien noted that the Catholic 
News Staff 
seen in my seven years here."
Church must encompass and es­
tablsh itselfas "a sign ofthe kingdom He also fielded a question from in the world and as a agent of Dean of Students James Roemer the presidents about forcing stu­justice." sat in on the Hall Presidents Council dents to move off campus after al­McBrien continued by noting the meeting last night to receive student cohol rules violations. Payment for 
changes produced by Vatican II and input regarding drinking games and the damage to the Transpo buses · 
its implications on the respon­the use ofgrain alcohol. used by the football team after the 
sibilities of a Catholic institution of The HPC convinced Roemer that Pittsburgh game, happy hours, off­
higher learning. Through Vatican II issuing a directive restricting drink­campus security, and Senior Bar also 
he explained that the Church's mis· ing games and the use of grain al­were discussed. 
sion has been expressed profoundly coqol was unneccesary. The hall In other business, the presidents 
as "mystery and sacramentality." presidents have already discon­were asked by the Student Union to Such a definition establishes the tinued these practices in the halls push magazine subscription sales in church as "a visible sign of Christ's and agreed that for Roemer to come their dorms. Four dollars from each presence." It also provides for out with a written directive on the subscription goes to the Student Un­"church reform to be an essential issue would be unnecessary and 
ion. 
part of the church's mission." The could possibly do more harm than Howard Hall president Tim Con­church's mission in "mystery and good. They believe that it would nelly confirmed that mixers will be sacramentality" obligates it to adv­cause student discontent over issues held in Chautauqua every open 
ocate justice not only within the that are already settled. Friday night beginning the first world but within its own confines. It Roemer was very complimentary Friday after Christmas break. Admis· is in this way that McBrien notes that toward the HPC and said, "This sion will be $1, and food and non­sacramentality is not simply an group shows the most concern over alcoholic beverages will be served. 
that she would become a prostitute. (APPhotos) 

................................. EPA officialsays 
: The Notre Dame : 
Acid-rainbill to hurt coalindustry
: Student Union is lOOking : INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Indiana cutting acid rain fallout by enforcing during the next year and could cut it coal sales will drop 22 million tons a strict anti-pollutant regulations. by 22 million tons by 1995. year by 1995 and local electric rates However, EPA officials say they will Senate measures to amend the
i tor TEACHERS tor i 
will increase 9.5 percent if a Senate resist efforts to curb sulfur dioxide Clean Air Act to require wholesale 
committee's proposal for combat· emissions without scientific proof reductions of sulfur dioxide are ting acid rain goes into effect, a U.S. the reductions will help end the pol­"unwise and premature" because Environmental Protection Agency lution. they do not start with the source of




i• Free University i• 
official says. the problem, she said. The Senate Environment Commit· Midwest coal production has

'Little is known about

tee has approved a measure aimed at been blamed for acid rain in Canada f and the Northeast. The fallout repor­

the extent to which the 
tedly leaches minerals from the

: ''an opportunity: INTERNATIONAL MUlTISTANDAR 
' • • earth, kills fish, erodes buildings,

problem isgetting
VIDEOCASSETTE RECORDERS 
damages crops and stunts the tree

: toshare : 
&RECEIVERS 
growth.

bettetorworse. ' 
Bennett said the Clean Air Act is "the best-kept secret" for controll­
FOR


: your interest'' i 
PAl SECAM NTSC 
"While identifying sulfur dioxide, 
ing acid rain. Under the present act, nitrogen oxide and ozone as con­
Now !JOU can excllan9e and pla!Jbacll 
l uu moustrial scrubb.:r~ an: 111 use, tributors to acid rain, little is known 
tall-stack reg: iations have been en­about the extent to which the
uideocassettes from almost anywhere 
forced and extensive research is un­

: . 
in tile world! Germany. Spain. Israel. 
problem is getting better or worse. 
der way, she said. Australia. And many more countries. 
We don't know enough about the Air quality standards undcr the


i GET INVOLVED!!! i 
areas affected and the specitlc link to 
Clean Air Act since 1970 "have pollutants," EPA assistant ad­
Acomplete internationt" uideo system 
reduced sulfur dioxide emissions by
including a brand new SONY Sl-T7ME 
ministrator Kathleen M. Bennett 
5 million tons a year," even though multistandarcl uideocassette pla!Jer/ 
said at the Indiana Coal Council 
electric generating capacity has in· seminar Monday.
recorder and a SONY 10"" color receiuer 
creased 60 percent during that tim<:,
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES 
She added that the committee bill she added.
is auailable for the specialintroductor!J 
is a "sledgehammer approach" that The deadline to comply with pol­
AVAILABLE FOR THANKSGIVING 
price of $1995. plus applicable sales tax 
would cost $3 billion to $5 billion lutant standards under the act is 
more than the existing Clean Air Act

BREAK 
&freight. Great for foreign language 
Dec. 31. Indiana has up to 10 and would decrease Indiana coal 
facilities that may not meet the
classes or foreign students wishing to
on Ten Day Rentals 
production by about six million tons deadline, she said. 
exchange uideotapes with their natiue 
countries. Rapid deliuer!J auailabe to






HERTZ 
major metro areas. This special offer is These rates are non-discountable.. 
ualid oni!J until December 31. 1981. For 
, .Security
Cars must be returned to renting 
information fill out the coupon and
location. mail to: 
continuedfrompage 1 til 2:30 a.m., it would cut down on The Eston Corporation 
cuss1on expresst:li au iu•.:ft:M 111 the pedestrian traffic along Saint 
POB5176 
having someone in the shack at the Mary's Road. 
Louisville. KY 40205 
(502 )454-7555 
entrance ofSaint Mary's more often. The guards that work for Saint Rates starting at $159 
The job description of the guard Mary's are trained through three ses­and are available until 
presently working in the shack is sions per year. These sessions are 


·------------· 

Nov. 19. 1982. •• NAME•••••••••••••••••••••••• I that 75 percent of his time, from performed by the security audit, ADDRESS•••••••••••••••••••••• I 6:00 p.m. to midnight, is spent on which is made up of retired FBI I CITY&STATE.........ZIP........ I foot patrol and only 25 percent is agents. Kovatch referred to the spent in tbe shack. security guard~ at Saint ,\1ary's, four
II I
am interested in multistandard video 

Some students also suggested that of which were previously police of­
I equ1pment for the following countnes: I 

an extension ofshuttle hours should ficers. as an "extension of the arm of 
l•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••el 

be considered. If the shuttle ran un~ the law." 
•••••••••••••••••••••• Ill •••••••

1------------' 

Wednesday, November 17, 1982-page 5 


Editorials 
Computers necessarily fail tthuman test" 
Th<~ Time magazine looks imeresting -lots ofcoverage on the elections (useless), ads for rich people -look at that a toy compute'r for little kids. It guarantees to make them smarter in ~ixty days or money hack. An offer any part·nt would love. "Yes, kids study better and longn because they're fascinated and don't get bored; school time is like playtime!" Im· agine, a tlve page ad in a national magazine. Mommies and Daddies everywhere can give jof-nny and Susy just what they need to be happy. I'm sure they'll do very well in the job market. 
~obbi~ Frt;s::bairn 
Guest Columnist 

L. ok at this now -very clever -an article on l:omputers in the schools. Kids can do programs. I wonder if they'd consider teach­ing me. Or are they so absorbed in their little computer world that they just wouldn't have time or concern to show me? 
Yes, yes, computers will act as a great equalizer; the rich, who can afford the mini computer at home, get more equal. They become Einsteins with massive computer time at school. See the local newspaper headline (soon to be replaced by a video screen news service): FOURTH GRADE CLASS DISCOVERS THE NATURE Of THE ATOM DURING RECESS! 
I feel this irrational sense offear. What made me happiest today was that reading I did for class anu then that t.liscussion. Are these :.kills outdated by the world we're building? That article, what did it say -ah yes, here it is ­"teachers are inadequately prepared (in) con· trast to specially trained teachers at more so· phisticated schools... We believe that the nicest thing that can happen to a child is to have a 'eacher who really understands what computers can do." 
Maybe I resent that statement on a personal level for the verv practical reason that I'd like to teach and I know very little about com· puters. .\1aybe -wait a second, the middle of this magazine just fell out(convenient for a child to place under his pillow until Christmas), let me get it. What's this? 
"But the nicest thing is it gives instructions and asks questions in friendly human sound­ing voices. The child answers the questions by pushing a button. If he's right, he's rewarded by hoorays and congratulations. Ifhe's wrong, never mind. The computer will encourage him to try again." 
I jump back to the article, and certain catch phrases jump at me. "we have a sense ofpanic, a year ago a computer was a luxury, Now it's a necessity... it's not just a matter of number crunching, it's a matter ofa new way of think· ing. The kids who aren't indoctrinated to com­puters by the seventh grade are not going to develop the same proficiency... In the long run, all God's children will haw· com­puters...Computcrs will be taught in most schools eventually, hut that's tlve to ten years from now." 
The question is, "why wait to be behind rival countries? America panics. It's becoming a race for the American ego!" But mightn't a more fundamental question be "Why rush?" While we hurry to place so much under the efficiency ofcomputers, we commit ourselves to an ever accelerating rush in the ''computer age." 
I don't defy this, I just recommend that people take resonsibility for their actions. Computers are a luxury designed to serve men's needs; they are ultimately under man's control. But careless exertion of our control can result in mistakes. The bank statement, tht> grocery bill, my current academic stand­
in~ are all minor mistakes today because 
someone punched the keyboard or 
programmed the computers improperly. 
When my bank's computer system broke down for an hour, the bank staff had to work all night long reacquainting themselves with the workings ofthe bank. I don't condemn im­proved eft1ency, I simply believe that we shoult: continue to learn skills and human techniques which computers could ease into uselessness. 
If the computer breaks down or we have a P<' ··er failure, or the batteries die with no re ·cements, I believe that we should be c · ·,le of a variety of skills which would a!­
.· any unforeseen problems. By channel-mg our talents into smaller constricted areas. we diminish the scope ofhumanity. Apparent· ly children at a computer terminal are "composing more freely and revising their work more thoroughly." 

Yet can these same children go outside to a game with other children? Are they able to compose freely when they are confronted wit 'a simple blank sheet ofpaper? 
F;,miliarizing ourselves with the computers is commendable if we place them in their proper perspective. Even a computer with the nicest "human sounding voice" can not replace a parent's bedtime story, followed by a hug. The school teacher who may know no­thing about computers can teach a great deal by his or her own experiences -guiding the children by a personal understanding which corrects and approves. 
Even for college students like us, the ability to iscuss our ideas is improved by class dis· cu:.,,.-Jn and exchange between each other. Surely a fundamental part of our education comes from our friendships in our daily lives. 
~we journey towards a new age:: ror society, 
seems appropriate to be well informed 
~uncerning past experiences ofpeople which 
lead us to this new point ofdeparture. 
I credit my most significant learning to 
people. Society, knit by our relationships, 
rehes on people, understanding and living to· 
gether joined by human ideas and answering 
problems oflife. 
Sensationalism fai!s to (im)press public 
Despite the fact that we have become the news gradually became more "in-depth," possible, producing many ill-prepared, The exposure given each ofthese stories by most imformation-aware society in the his-more intellectual, and decidedly more slanted "hatchet jobs," the effects ofwhich are our media is very revealing-we experience tory ofthe human race, I feel that we are being thorough in scope and coverage. · often devastating to the helpless vicitms. waves ofcoverage which gradually ebb when 
subjected to some of the shoddiest press However, after many hours of daily news ~ a new and equally headline-grabbing event 
coverage in the history of journalism. Some of binges, I feel that the press media in the last transpires. Do many of you truly believe that
Robert Lloyd Snyderthe most relevant news stories of the last few few years is decidedly guilty of two un-the "crisis" which Reagan publicized at the years, which are intrinsically important to the forgiveable crimes against the tradition of lhen Mid-Week beginning of his term actually ended when understanding ofwhere we are progressing as "responsible" journalism. father Hesburgh helicoptered across El Sal-a society and a species, have been passed over The less obvious transgression of the two vador during their national elections? Have through the selective media coverage of the by the media is the evolution of an "us vs. The press has m1smterpreted the mcrease· the problems which led Argentina to enter in· 1970's and 1980's. them" mentality which has caused irrevers· in public attention to mean that the public has to armed dispute with Britain really subsided? 
The story has a noble beginning. Mid-wifed ible excesses by the press in its investigative given the press "free rein" to become How many of you really care what transpires by the investigative work of the Woodward-frenzy. The geometric increases of viewers in society's watchdog and unofficial prosecutor. in the lives of Britain's royal family? Bernstein team during the Watergate era, the formerly respectible news-related shows, Ifyou ever have a problem in these days ofthe Yet, the media rolls on. Our original inves­media "rediscovered" the investigative poten-such as "60 Minutes," has driven the press to "Superpress," you can simply pick up your tigative heroes, Woodward and Bernstein, tial inherent in the power of the press. The go for the jugular vein of its subjects when phone and call your local newspaper or televi· have since gone "high-rent." Bernstein now 
sion station, which will soon bring the light of heads ABC's Washington bureau, and Wood­public exposure to bear upon your situation. ward is now a major editor ofthe Washington The second misuse of the power of the Post. (;eorge Will, Ted Koppel, Walter press is the exploitation of major news stories Cronkite and Barbara Walters are all "stars." to create overnight sensations in the news Henry Kissinger and Jerry Ford are million while routinely ignoring news stories equally dollar "media consultants." And the media important but ofless public inte~est. Since the rolls on, and on, hoping to grab the biggest 


P.O. Box Q 

Energizing liturgies 

beginning of 1982, we have seen four of five headlines and ratings, distorting our view of major news stories; the El Salvador "crisis", world events daily, "creating" crises, and the Polish revolt, and the wars in Lebanon, the augmenting an already ignoble traditionDearEditor: Mr Schorp's question -what energy do Malvinas and Iraq. which may take years to correct.
With dismay, I read David Schorp's you elicit from your congregation -is well editorial letter ( 11/11) regarding Father stated. I find myself energized enough to re­Fitzgerald and the 12: 1 5 Sunday liturgy at read the Sunday scriptures, to think on the Sacred Heart. provacative points of the homily which 
I tlnd in the 12:15 liturgy: touched my life, and to try to get to daily 

•a 
caring community with which to worship liturgies for more of the same (but I must the Lord; admit that the music at the 5:15 each day is •one in which I, as a believer, am invited and dreadful!). urged to participate in prayer and song; Peggy Roach •one in which the Word of God is Pastoral and Social Ministry proclaimed prayerfully -not just read like the Sunday paper; 

•Father 
Fitzgerald's homilies always related to the Word of God I have just proclaimed, asking me probing questions on what my faith had to say about the way I live, remind­


Editor's Note: Letters should be brief and ing me that really following Christ will be a 
deal with specific issues. They must be typed difficult and painful path at times. 
and bear the address, telephone number and I, for one, have felt we usually say our 
signature of the author. Initials and pseudo­nyms are not acceptable. Reproductions,

prayer too quickly and sing our hymns like funeral dirges. J.'his doesn't happen at the carbon copies, or letters addressed to per­
sons other than the editor are not accept­fully. 
12:15 -we pray thoughtfully and sing joy· able. All letters are subject to editing. 

.The Observer-~~ Editorial Board Department Managet:s 
1 lw (J/J<ol a 1~ an indcpcnJcn: ncw'('Jf'cr puhh,hcd by the ,rudc!H\ ot tht· 

Editor-in-Chief. ..Michael Monk Business Manager ............................."J"ony Aiello ,111\l"r'lty of Notre n.lm(' du 1..!<" .IIlli S.lllll M.H)."' ( ollc.I.!C. It ,lues POl lltH"\\,Irll) :11anagingEditor.. .... Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller .............................................Eric ~chulz rdlnt the pollliC'' of the Jdmull,trJIIUII llf t·lther m~titui10il Tpc new," rcpon Executil•e NeU's Editor .David Dziedzic Advertising Manager.......................Chri~ Owen t·,l J' .1< lUrJtt'l)· and .1s uhJl' tl\d) ·" f'lh\lhle. hl1tOr1Jis represc.'nt the opl:-!lt)ll ot SMC Executiz•e Editor.... .......Margaret fosmoc:: Production Manager..................Maura ,\1urphy .1 ITI.IJOrlty of the LJ,toriJI Bo.nd. (oolllnl'llt.lrlt''· upin1uns Jn,l letters .1re the \lew, Sports Editor ...Chris !\leedles Circulation Manager ..........................Ray lnglin of thctr authors. ( olumn Sf'J'c 1' .1\"JII.lhlt-to .Ill memhcr, of the <omrnunll)'· Jnd Editorials Editor.... ..... Paul McGinn .~ystems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley the f rtt exprc\Sion of varymg opmwm on (ampu>. through l.ctter>, I> en~ounged. Features Editor. . ......... .Tari Brown Photo EJ1tc1r ...... ... Rachel Blount 
Founded November 3,1966
P.O.Hux Q. Notre Damt·. IN -.6SS(, (~I 9) 2.~9-';.lO;\ 



~~S tl0 W C ~~iiiiiiSiiiiiEiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiWiiiedniiiesiidayiiii,Niiioviiiemiiibeiiirliii7,liii98iii2iiipiiiagiiiiiiie 
mAIDS: Successfully made 

I
n 1933 at LeMans, two servant g1rls. Lea Pappin and her sister Christine, were indicted for the murdt·r oftheir mistress, one .\ladame Lancelin. Testimony n:n·alcd the woman as a cruel and unjust master, and the trial ofthe two sisters became a cause celebre for the French intellectual left. Later evidence suggested that the accused had not acted as victims ofexploita­tion or out ofa sense ofclass con­sciousness, but rather that both wen:· hopelessly mad. 

maxWestler 

theatte teview 
From this sordid incident, Jean Genet has created a long meditation on the pathology ofoppression. The slave, permitted no identity ofher own, must envy the master, see her­selfas unworthy and inferior. In or­der to liberate herself, the slave must kill off not her master, but the rage and envy Genet's maids feel. 
In The Maids, Solange and her younger sister Claire conspire against their mistress but do not poison her. Instead, they enact a ritual in which they take turns im­personating their mistress. When the curtain rises, Claire has become Madame, and Solange Claire. 
The ritual fantasy the two sisters perform testifies to all the am­biguities oftheir situation. Like good slaves, they both love and hate their mbtress, envy her authority and wish to rebel against it. The ritual permits them to expiate their self­dbgust and sense of unworthiness, and abo to possess the identity of Madame. 
The ritual also reveals the forces that hind them together and also hold them apart. Since the sisters cannot love each other-as So lange says. "l'ilth doesn't love filth"-the ritual is a sub~;titute for love, the illu­sion a limn ofbonding. 
The vioknce and eroticism that characterize the ritual become the dominant emotions of the play as a whole. For Genet, the theatre is a brothel ofillusions, a means of escaping the world as it is. Illusion permits us to deny or alter our situa­tions in whatever ways we tlnd most pleasing. Illusion can also become a drug, a substitute for action. 
A':.:. this r .ust suggest, The Maids is ""l ..n eas) piay to perform. The two actresses who play Solange and Claire are on stage for nearly the entire length ofthe play and they are responsible for negotiating all of the drama's symbolic sleights ofhand. Since it is uncertain where the per­sonality ofone sister leaves off and the other begins, the two sisters must often seem mirror-images of 
each other. less distinct individuals, than retle<:ting surfaces. 
Although our first impression is that So lange is the stronger, more dominant personality, Claire the more vulnerable and submissive, the play proves us wrong. As the last of many surprises, Claire proves dominant. 
The: role of Madame, the shortest in the pia··, is also the most impor­tant A' ·.1gh her appearance on the brief, she is never absent front :, · " •ughts ofher servants; the ••u1Hession she makes centers the drama..\1adame must also sug­gest a baser reality than Claire's highly idealized impersonation of her, one of the play's many ironies. Since all three ofthese women are more or les~ abstract and representational figures, the actresses must lend them a human dimension without violating the mysterious and dream-like quality of the performances. 
In this respect, the current 
ND/SMC production is an un­
qualified success. In Suzanne Dun­
lap, Tari Brown and Joan Quinlan, 
the characters ofClaire, So lange and 
Madame have found interpreters of 
unusual presence and sensitivity. As 
Claire, Ms. Dunlap uses her tall body ·dramatically and to great effect, at times with the economy ofgesture and expressiveness of mime. The tragic gracefulness in her Claire is punctuated by a comic awkward­ness, the shyness balanced by the in­timation offorce. Ms. Dunlap performs the series oftransforma­tions leading to Claire's suicide with the fluidity and deliberateness ofa sleepwalker. Ofall the roles Claire assumes, this last is the most crucial 
and demanding..\1s. Dunlap brings it 
offwith a repose and naturalness 
that is completely convincing, al­
most magical. 
As So lange, Ms. Brown is all sharp 
edges and manic energy. a woman 
driven by a frustrated rage and 
desire she is at pains to control. The 
abrupt movement~ and gestures, the 
unsteady tremolo of her voice as it 
ebbs and flows precisely name the 
turmoil ofSolange's psychic life. Ms. 
Brown is also called upon to per­

form one of the most difficult parts ofthe play by herself: a long solilo­quy that precedes and prepares us for Claire'ssuicide. This she delivers with a hushed intensity and a rapture that set just the right tone for the quietness and incon­spicuousness ofClaire's entrance. 
As b appropriate, Joan Quinlan makes much of Madame's briefap­pearanet:. Her performance, at once broad and satiric, provides the com­ic relief that should distinguish the central third ofthe play. Alternately petulant and vainglorious, she is the essence ofself-absorption, the kind of person who can make sitting down seem a grand gesture. She is, in every way, the character Genet called for: "un peu cocotte et un peu bourgeoise." 
\1y complaints with the current produnion are few and minor. Richard Webb's set, with its drapes stretched over th<: proscenium like sails, b handsome but inappropriate­ly spacious. The room should be claustrophobic, more a reflection of the sisters' sense ofconfinement, of their entrapment While the set reflects Madame's splendor, it does not suggest her vulgarity, the bedroom ofa "cocotte." Genet specifies neither music nor sym­bolic tableaux at the beginning or at the end ofthe play. These "effects" tend 10 stress and thereby over­simpiiiY the religious nature of 
Claire's apotheosis. 
For the most part, however, the direction is straightforward, uncom­plicated and completely at the 
service ofGenet's text. Mr. Powlick 

and his cast have translated a 
challenging text into a most en­tertaining evening. This intelligent and committed production deserves to be seen. 
St. Ed's centenniGI GnnivetsGty 
M
ost ofus have undoubtedly been lectured by our great­grandfathers or some other old­timer about the "good ole" days at Notre Dame, when the university didn't consider such luxuries as heat, runningwater, or women as re­quisites for a good Catholic under­graduate education. 



Scott Williams 

featutes 
Few of the customs from those days at Notre Dame have remai'led, though the university is still richly laden in tradition and folklore. ( l am fairly sure that most of us would prefer the present living and social conditions, anyway.) One ofthe few buildings which has remained since long ago at Notre Dame is St. Ed­ward's Hall, which celebrates its 1OOth anniversary this week. 
St. Ed's, named after patron on the university's founder, Father Edward Sorin, was originally constructed in 1882 for the "minims," the elemen­tary school children of Notre Dame. The males who attended St. Ed's were aged six to 13 years and pursued a highly intensive academic program which was designed to 
prepare them for a a college 
preparatory high school and subse­
quently for university work. 
In 1929 it was decided that the 
School for Minims should be done 
away with and St. Ed's was con­
verted to a residence hall for under­
graduates. 
St. Ed's continued to be used as a residence hall with very little physi­cal change excepting a gradual decay until the summer of 1980 when the hall was heavily damaged by fire. 
Because of the already-decayed condition of the 98-year-old structure, it was decided that the inside of the building should be entirely redone, installing all new carpets, walls, ceilings and fixtures, while retaining the "antique look" and high ceilings which are so much a part ofthe character ofSt. Ed's. The stained glass windows, inst~lled before 1890, were removed and taken apart, then individually cleaned by a firm in Minnesota and tlnally reassembled and fitted to St. Ed's. 
The biggest problem in the rebuilding ofSt. Ed's was not, however, the actual reconstruction, which was certainly possible, given sufficient time and money. The resi­dents ofSt. Ed's were much more concerned with retaining their iden­tity and character as a hall. 
Thus, the men ofSt. Ed's, who were housed within the study lounges of Flanner and Grace Halls, along with "Vincent's," (which is a part ofColumba Hall) sought to uni­fy themselves by keeping an active social schedule. All intramural sports programs were continued, and the football team ofSt. Ed's even won the campus championship that year ( 1980). 

The forced separation may have even been a "unifying force," according to some ofthe hall's resi­dents. Because they were physically apart, the residents were forced to make a much more active effort to bring themselves together, and "a bond was formed" because ofthis situation, according to one St. Ed's junior who spent his freshman year at Vincent's. 
Finally, in the fall of 1981, St. Ed's stood complete, with its all-new in­terior and four-story annex, ready to receive its 183 residents. 
Events in this week's Centennial Celebration include an Open House, a mass with Fr. Hesburgh, various so­cial get-togethers, and the St. Ed's SYR, with the themeCentenmal, and various parts of the hall being decorated to represent decades within the last hundred years. 

-----------~-~~---------~~---------~ -~ ~-~~-­


The Observer Features Section 
A daily celebtation of life 

S
itting in the dining hall one day earlier this semester, a friend ofmine related this story to me. He had heard it while riding on a city bus: "Happy Birthday to you, happy birthday to you, hap­py birthday ..." "Stop'" the elderly woman shouted. "Stop that! Do you hear me? Stop that!" 
The bus driver and the two other passengers looked at her paunchy face, her eyes blood-shot and swollen and her mouth tightly stretched across her two remain­ing teeth. 
Tatl8town 


In the back ofthe bus, a rickety black man ofabout seventy years ofage picked up the chorus and began to augment the simple tune with scat. 
"Happy Birthday, happy, happy birthday to you ... 
"Stop that! All ofyou. Stop that! It's not my birthday. Stop singing that awful song!" The tears began to puddle in the corners ofher eyes, glossing over her red and pink whites and hazel green irises. "Please, stop," she pleaded. "It's not my birthday."' 
"It sure is your birhtday, Hildie," the bus driver said. He had had the pleasure of Hildie's company every morningfor the last six years on his 8:47a.m. run. They had shared many birthdays, their own, those ofother regular passengers and their grandchildren. Each day that a birthday was to be commemorated, he and Hildie and the man in the back ofthe bus whose name no one knew but had been communally designated as "Scat" and George, a self-proclaimed prophet ofthe Second Coming would sing a rousing chorus ofthe old familiar tune. 
"It's not my birthday." Hildie spurted out the words with all ofher energy. Then, she let the tears go. They streaked her dust-colored skin, plotting their random paths as they followed their course. "It's not ..." 
George came over to her and putting his arm around her, said, "It's the big one. Sixty-five." 
"No," she insisted. 
"You been lookin' forward to this since ... since the last one. The government's gonna pay you now for living," George replied. "Why you so upset, woman?" Scat shouted from the third seat from the back. "I ain't upset. It just ain't my birthday. It's some other day." "Don't you be fooling me, woman. I remembers when it's your birthday. I remembers everything." "Well, you'se forgotten that today ain't my birthday then." "You should be happy, woman. It's the day the Lord gave you life." "Well, he can take it away just as fast as he gave it, then. I don't want it." As the bus pulled up to an intersection, the bus driver and George glanced at each other then at Hildie. "Why you saying such things, Hildie?" George asked. 
"Why'd I want to live? I gits kicked outta my house 'cause I can't pay the rent. I ain't got no money to buy me a d'scent meal. And then ..." 
"What, Hildie? What happened?" 
"My cat, she runs out into the street and a big old garbage truck runs ht:r over. The last thing I has and now she's gone." 
"Woman, don't you go offlike that. The Lord ... 
"No one loves me." 
"The Lord loves ya." Scat began to proclaim his daily message oflove to all that would listen. "The Lord's love ... "It don't pay the rent. It don't put food in my stomach. It don't bring back my cat." 
"The Lord ..." 
"Enough, Scat," George shouted. "Hildie, birthdays are happy days. You should be smiling and singing like we's doing." 
"What's so happy about being alone?" 
"But you ain't alone. We'se here." 
"You don't understand. I always been alone." 
"What about your husband and your kids?" 
"Fider'sdead and those hussies has moved to another state with all ofthem grandchildren and bought them­selves big fancy houses with all sorts ofelectrical things in them." 
"Don't you ever visit them?" 
"I never been invited. Besides, I wouldn't want to go visit them. They don't like me. They'se ashamed oftheir momma." 
"You got us. We been here for ... for ... since we met ya. We'll give you parties and sing songs with ya." 
"I don't like parties. They ain't happy occasions. Ya look forward to 'em and all you end up wit this a bad feeling in the pit o'your stomach. Like someone hit ya there. Birthdays is bad things. They should make a law against 'em." 
"They ain't bad things, Hildie. They'se times for celebration." 
"What'cha gonna celebrate?" 
"Well ..." 
"Birthdays ain't no different than any other days. There ain't no reason to celebrate just one day ofthe year. It don't make everythin' better just 'cause everybody remembers the day your momma went through hell to birth ya. All birthdays do is make you think o' how much everybody's forgotten 'bout ya. They'se sad things. Very sad things." 
The story elicited a response ofsympathy from me at the time. I recall it now because a big birthday ap­prllaches me. As I think about the birthdays that have come and gone, I understand what Hildie meant. Birthdays come and go, passing as quickly as any other day ofthe year. The excited anticipation before them is in direct proportion to the disappointment felt after­wards. 
I have never been a big fan ofdisappointment so a few years ago I decided that birthdays are only as big a celebration as every other day ofthe year is. 
Birthdaysdon't need to be sad things. Not ifeveryday you celebrate life and on that one day celebrate the first day that you were given life. 



Ttivia Quiz 56 

I 
hope ,·ou enjoyed last week's change ofpace. Some of 1ho~e groups were easy; others were not. The answers accomp·111y a reproduction ofthe page below. 
Tim Neely 
rock trivia 

Thing., return to relative normalcy this week, the last tnn., ~itoi; before Thanksgiving break (yes, it's almost hnt· aln::oJy ). This week', quiz is another repeated sub­ject: thc:-e are no repeated questions, however. Here arc ten -uhtitles ro popular songs. Identify the main tit!..: 
I.""( \\"hat a Beautiful W'orld)" 
2. "( Don"t Hurt \te )"" ~."(Do You Think I Am)" -1. ''( \\'ho Have \iothing)" 
S. "( Lookin' for the Lights)" 
6. 
"(in the Gun of Robert ford)" 

7. 
"(The Pin a Colada Song)" 

8. 
"(Baby Goodbye)" 

9. 
"(Evergreen)" 

10. 
"(Naturally)" The an~wers to tht: photo quiz: 


I. Cream (you probably never knew what they looked like before) 
2. The Human League ).journey 
4. 
Dire Straits 

5. 
Three Dog Night (3/7 ofthem anyway, with hid­den drummer) 


6. 
The Chapin Brothers (Harry, Tom, and Steve) 

7. 
The Kinks (in 1964!) 

8. 
The Police 

9. 
Styx 10..38 Special 





Wednesday, November 17, 1982-page 7 





WRABIT jumps 
W
rabit is a good heavy-metal group in a time that merely good ones are left unknown and unloved. 
A few years ago, Tracks would have gained a lot ofairplay and record sales would have soared. Now, Wrabit is doing the poorest of the four groups MCA Records has decided to push: an all-girl new­wave group, a one-man musical experience, an English new-wave band, and Wrabit. 
But don't let the current music trends dissuade you from a fine al­bum, which Tracks is. 
EdKontQdy 

record review 

The group debuted last year with a self-titled album that was 
recorded over a five-year period. The music was predictably un­
defined and spotty. After a tour, they went home to Canada and in 
two months had Tracks. 

The group's roots are in heavy-metal, but it is obvious that they 
were trying for a lighter sound, coming out sounding like early For­
eigner, not something to be ashamed of. 

Wrabit is led by lead vocalist Lou Nadeau who also wrote four of 
the songs and co-wrote two others, and guitarist/vocalist john Al­
bani, v.ho wrote two songs. 

Since their last album, Wrabit has added Chris Brockway on bass, 
Gerald O'Brian on keyboards and Gary McCrack<;n on drums. Now 
that Albani is the lone guitar player in the band, Wrabit has 
broadened their sound, says Nadeau. 

"john really gets to let loose now that he's the only guitar player in 
the band," says Nadeau. "John's always experimenting with the latest 
technology to get the sound he's after. 
on the lead lines it's john you're hearing. 

"Gerald O'Brien adds a melodic depth to our instrumental sound. 
Gary McCracken, our new drummer, played with one ofCanada's 
most highly-regarded progressive bands, Max Webster. 
"Chris (Brockway) joined us just after the first album was 
finished," says Nadeau, "and it's been a love affair ever since. Inciden­
tally, Chris co-wrote 'Blinding Light Show' with Rick Emmet ofTri­
umph, and we rely heavily on his writing and arranging talents." 
Like most heavy metal bands, Wrabit has a weakness in their lyrics. 
Nadeau especially has a tendency to use cliches to express feelings. 
This isn't readily evident in the first song, "Run For Cover" which 
begins with an excellent lead guitar solo opening and some very nice 
powerchord rhythm work by Albani. The lyrics are very cloudy and 
even after reading the lyric sheet the picture is very fuzzy. 
"See No Evil" and "Soldier of Fortune" show off Nadeau's vocal 
abilities well, and the latter features some fair war imagery, but 
"Soldier" suffers from an absence oflyrical freshness at any degree. 
(Fighting fire withfire/Victory will takeyou higher/You're a sol­dier offortune/Shouting outyour victory tune.) 
Wrabit follows that up with a ballad, "I'll Never Run Away", with good piano work by O'Brien, and an edge to it that escapes most heavy-metal bands. This is a very good song that shows the promise that Wrabit has. 
"Bare Knuckler" and "Castles In The Sky", each the last song on their respective sides, are impressive. "Bare" typifies that early For­eigner sound I mentioned before with the background vocals, rhythm section, and Albani's guitar solo. "Castles" is pure heavy­metal rock and roll. McCracken's drums are incredibly powerful, and make the song worthwhile. 
"Don't LOse That Feeling" and "Unsung Hero" both feature Al­bani's guitar. In the former, aguitar solo thrusts the songalong, while in the latter, Albani teams with O'Brien to propel the song with a powerful drum/guitar opening. 
"Don't Stop Me Now" is notable for a fair tenor sax solo by Earl Seymour and some tight background vocals. "There Was A Time" is typical Wrabit -excellent heavy-metallead guitar, very good keyboard work, and great vocals. 
All in all, Wrabit has made an album that needed to be released a few years ago. Although this is a more than capable effort, time (and popular acclaim) has probably passed them by. 
---..,.,..~~--------------------~-­
----~----~---------------------




SportS Brieh 

Wednesday, Novelmber 17, 1982 -page 8 
::~B~~~·;7;h:e~f~J~b~s:e~n~':t'r=:a:n~d~T~I.1:e~A;s:-s=-o~£~-~~-u~t~ef~i~J~}r~e~s:s::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
Billy Martin, the controversial and fiery manager fired last month by the Oakland A's, will reportedly return to, you guessed it, New York to manage the Yankees for the third time. According to a report in this morning'sNew York Daily News, Martin, who played for the Yankees in the 1950's and managed the Bronx Bombers to a World Series title in 1977, will sign a four-year. two-million-dollar contract as early as this week. Martin, who is famous for his celebrated feuds with Yankee owner George Steinbrenner, was tired by the latter in 1978, rehired and fired in 1979. He then spent three seasons with Oakland, winning the Western Division title in 1981. ­
NBCNews 
Interhall football equipmentreturn will take 
place today at Gate 9 of the Stadium. All teams that have finished 
their seasons must return their equipment at this time. -The Ob­server 
Tickets are availablefor the Crush Classic, Nov. 26­27 at the Rosemont Horizon on a two-for-one basis. The Notre Dame women's team will participate in the tournament. Tickets will be sold at the ACC at the rate of two for either $8 or 510 for any of the four sessions. The Irish women will open the tournament against UCLA on Friday, Nov. 26 at I p.m. Rutgers and Georgia are also en­tered in the tournament. -The Observer 
The Ultimate Frisbee Club will begins its winter practices this Saturday afternoon. 4 to 6 at the Stepan Center. -The Observer 
Interhall basketball captains are asked to be at a meeting tomorrow at 4:30 p.m. in the ACC Auditorium. -The Observer 
ND-SM C sailorsarc advised ofa meeting oftheir club, to be held tonight at 6:30 in Room 203 O'Shag. The Donahue Cup races will be among topics for discussion. -The Observer 
The mother and brotherofSouth Korean fighter Duk Koo Kim traveled to the United States Tuesday to meet with doctors and decide whether to disconnect the life support system keeping the brain-dead boxer alive. Kim, 23, suffered a critical head injury Saturday in a lightweight title bout against World Boxing As­sociation champion Ray "Boom Boom" Mancini at Caesars Palace. The Korean was knocked out in the 14th round. "The medical deci­sion will be made with them in consultation," Dr. Lonnie Ham­margren said. "The tests still show no sign ofcerebral life. It is now a moral and ethical question what to do when the brain is dead." Ham­margren has said that once the life support machinery is discon­nected, Kim would die "within a matter of minutes." -AP 


APTop 20 
AP Top Twenty The Top Twenty college basketball teams on The 
Associated Press poll. w1th f1rst-place votes 1n paren­
theses, th1s season s records and total po1nts. Points 
based on 20· t 9-18-17 etc Notre Dame opponents are italicized 
1 Virg1n1a (33) 30-4 1.020 2 Georgetown (51 30·7 978 3. Nonh Carolina (9) 32-2 897 
4 Kentucky (2) 22·8 740 
5 Villanbva (2) 24-8 773 
6 Memphis State 26·6 699 7 UCLA 21·6 698 8. LOUISVIlle (1) 23-10 602 9 Indiana 19-10 590 10. Oregon State 25·5 514 
11. Iowa 21-8 457 12 Alabama 24·7 434 13. Tennesee 20·10 427 14. Houston 25·8 372 15. MISSOUri 27-4 280 
16. N.C. State 22-10 159 17. Arkansas 23-6 140 18. Marquette 23-9 119 19. St. John's 21-9 118 20. Oklahoma 22-11 114 
The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday. 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However, classifieds to appear in the next issue must be recetved by 3 p.m. the bus1ness day pnor to tnsertion. All classifieds must be prepatd. 
e1ther 1n person or through the maiL 




Classifieds 
REMINDER FOR THEO MAJORS:NEED RIDE TO COLUMBUS, OHIO NEED RIDERS TO CHARLOTTE, N.C. 

JIM BADER-T Happy 22nd plua11 (Belt• TOMORROW--NOV 18--THERE WILLTwo riders need ride for Thanksgiving,
found: One lzod coat. Green. Belongs to I am leavong Tuesday for Thanksgiving.

NOTICES 

late than nev•l)Too bad you BE A SOCIAL HOUR WITH PROF 
Jacke n Film An Class. TT share usual. call Mike at 6934 

missed thecake. STOREY AS 
2:45-4:00. Please call Carl after 5 at 272-Call Larry at x1180 GUEST .5:00 PM .331
8428. REALLY NEED RIDE TO CENTRAL

TYPING AVAILABLE JOIN A CLUB THAT REALLY BYTES! b'SHAUGHNESSY.
PITTSBURGH OR BUST!
NEW YORK (ALBANY, UTICA,

287-4082 All Apple CCifTII)UI.-users (students
Ride needed for two females tor
LOST: One Ombudsman poster from our SYRACUSE Thanksgiving break! Can use round esp.)...n-ewill be an Contrary to popular b<>lief, Sue F and office. It was our only copy FOR XMAS BREAK---WILL SHARE trip, or one way FROM the Burgh! Please 

organlzallonal meellng ol the Byteing Shaun M are not engaged TYPING. Fast, accurate. reasonable Irish Apple comp. club
please return 1t so we can make more. USUAL ---CALL CHRIS AT 8573 OR 
phone Leanne-8983, or 7753.
Just slide It under our 3510

rates. Close to campus LYNN today at 7:30, rm 120 Hay•-Healy. Bring Ed
Will share usual!
office door. Thanks. ANYTIME

SAYLOR 233-3423. your aqulrad programs! My tum Pizza and-· Whe<l•? LOST: One pearl necklace w ruby R1de needed to LOUISVILLE, KY California
RIDE NEEDED TO NYC FOR XMASHAVE YOU READ THE MOST FAMOUS 
clasp. If found please call Mara 6874 Thanksgiving break. Will share
BREAK-WILL SHARE USUAL--CALL

WALL ON THIS CAMPUS? TO OUR ST. LOUIS LAW SCHOOL BUD-­
•;911'. usual Nick 1434 
CHRIS AT

DO YOU NEED A HAIRCUT BEFORE DY ///Dew Beth, Colle«l, Jayne, K.-hy,
8573 OR 3510 ANYTIME.

YOU ARE DEPORTED? IT WAS FANTASTIC TO SEE YOUII WE
LOST:A Down Jacket at the Beaux Ans NEED RIDE TO DETROIT MON P M OR La..-a, and Molsaa: DOES YOUR MOTHER DANCE ON MISS
Ball.lt is tan w1th blue sleeves NEED RIDE TO FLORIDA FOR TUES. WILL SHARE $$ MEG 284-5027 ThW*s tor being there when I needed a TABLES IN ACOCKTAILLOUNGE? YOU LOTS-NEXT TIME WE GO TO
It is brand new.lf taken or found, please should•to cry on.
CHRISTMAS MARK 277-0955
IF YOU ANSWERED YES TO ANY ONE FARRELLS.

return to 243 Stanford HeHELP You re..y showed me what trua OR MORE OF THESE (8670) and no quest1ons Will be asked. Need a nde to New York C1ty or anywhere TAKE CARE, MAE friendship is all aboul and thai
NEED RIDE TO OR NEAR CONN. FORQUESTIONS CALL TODAY FOR AN AP· 

near West Po1nt Milotary being "blown-oil" can almost be fun! POINTMENT: TOP '0 THE MORNING! HOPE YOU'RE
Lost on Saturday 11/13 gold bracelet T-GIVING BREAK CAN LEAVE TUES. 
Academy. Will share usual. Call Caroline GUYS $4, GIRLS $6 PARTYING HEARTY IN THE TRUE
if found call Cathy 284-5306 AM CALL DOUG 8389. 
4307 MICHOLE AT 7850 N.D. STYLE. WE LUV VA MISH 

Dawn Loves Davtd Lost before break gold necklace with 
-THE WILD WOMEN OF LEWIS MONEY FOR SCHOOL!! We guarantee charm. Charm has initials Need nde to illew Jersey lor Thanksg•v· David is very happy
HELPIII HELP!II 
We need a nde to the Detroit area on to find scholarshipS, grants. aid SENIORS!
carved K.C.H. If found please call Kacey ing.Can leave late Tues Call x8050. 

Wed PLEASE call Cathy at which you re eligible to receive. Applica­284-4304 STUDY BREAK TONIGHT To The Prem1er FARLEY WOMAN! 
284-4027 tion matenals-$1.00. 1D-12 in the NAZZ 

Hope your B-day IS the greatest! NEED-nde or nders to COLUMBUS,
FOUND: Pr. binoculars on-Greenfield Sat 
Love. the Godesses of 3A OHIOforwknd 11/19-21 call: Steve ­
Financial Aid Finder, Box 1053-CD. fair· S'MORES,COOKIES,COFFEE 

Call and descnbe them well and be close to the location and they're 1857 The Guys The Weather The Team.. 
field, Iowa 52556. 


FOR SALE]

Photographers: Am 1ook1ng for someone yours. Pete (3528) after The Dome 
10:30pm RIDE NEEDED-One-way from BOSTON and you think we don't hke .there? to ND on 11/28-29. Gib-6827 SENIOR STUDY BREAK Dand L to work for a professtonal 
photographer next semester and next S'mores,cooklM,collee,hol chocolale 

year. 12 hrs/wk, must be able LOST or probably STOLEN one Lev1s RIDERS NEEDED-One-way from ND to 

MENotNDII! TONITE 10to 12inthe NAZZIIUII 
to do high quality B&W lab work and be a blue jean jacket 
Now IS your chance to order your annual competent photographer 

Thurs note at Corbys It you value your life Boston, leavong 1 pm on 11/23 Gib-6827 Milwaukee...
PLAYBOY subscnpt1on Greg 277-2657 
an&'oor want a reward then call 3588 and talk to me. Dont 

at a 45'o DISCOUNT! Call your local dis­st. Ed's. We're wfld. We're crazy. We're I need ande this week to Milwaukee. 1can tributor at 284-5203,
show up at Corbys aga1n without 1t•AH!'o NEED a nder to DALLAS TEXAS for 100. leave Thursday late
Gmat revtew classes for Jan 29th exam ask for Barboe or Shari. Hurry while they afternoon or Fnday morning. Are you
Thanksg1v1ng call Chuck at t 461 begin Dec 4th Call Stanley 

last!!I Hmaybelowth andtwenty-five, butthis Is gotng? Take me wtth youKaplan Educational Center for 1r.fo -232-LOST: ONE GOLD MEN'S CHAIN 
Need 2 ndes lo ISU your much Call Bob at 8641 M1ght have been lost in the ACC on Mon­2366 or 272-4135 Bloomington, IllinOIS th1s weekend. FOR SALE: Large, comfonable couch. abused quarterback holding tlrm. D...,n I
day11/15 Call5268 Best offer. Call2854. all, we're going My sincerest apologies .. .tor any in·
Please call David at x6931 ............. .... ... ................. fortt. conventence my TUTOR for test prep center to teach 
revtew classes for MCAT Requires DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO BUF-$32.50BY ORDER ONLY.CONTACT p.s. maybe fllsee you onthe 20th. unexpected cancellation of Sunday's Top

LOST: One black metallic Schaeffer pen FALO FOR THANKSGIVING BILL 1412 STUDENT UNION 20 Time TunnelIn-depth knowledge of 
in the 'Brar Periodical 
Bio,Chem.Physics. 

0 FOR THANKSGIVING BILL 1412 Hey Gals this Is the Tannessae Stud show may have caused. But 1t shall
center on Monday November 15. Please talkin to ya. Tomonow Is my return; the show youteach1ng expenence a plus. 
MCAT scores above 96'o, college degree; call Peter 289·1117. 


Help! Need nde to WESTERN PA forT-birthday and rd love to hea-trom y'all. would have heard last Sunday had I been Weekend or eve classes begonning Jan. 
3679 healthy w1ll beg•ving break. Either 1·80 or PA 

TICKETS
Call 232-2366 after 1 pm Tpk. Can leave Mon. nite or anytime Ill heard Thursday morning al 11 AM on Tues. Call Tem x6797 the same Bat-channel-WSND AM 64Need drummer for band. Call Brad 8920 

FOR RENT ] AN OFFICIAL COMMUNIQUE FROM 
Let's go for it before we get old! 

Need nde to Cleveland area Fnday, 19 I NEED 4 USC GAs CALL BRENDAN THE EXECUTIVE COUNCIL OF THE call Ralph x1105 3207 NOTRE DAME WILSON DRIVEAWAY:One-way transpo PROGRESSIVE MUSIK CLUB; SENIOR TRIP TRAVEL NIGHT
Student Housing -Clean · Safe. Help' Need lift from Mpls for TG break $$ FOR SALE 2 USC TIXS GA GREAT To all 8oppers who Hmayconcern: Wednesday. Nov 17home forT-giving. You pay gas. tolls $100/mo. 291-1405.
(sec dep) BOB 233-6495 Dave 3039 LOCAT CALL MATT AT 1581 All Off-Campus membenl of the Club 7:30pm-Carroll Hall (SMC) 11pm 
should contact Barney immediately CALIFORNIA. HERE COME•!I

SPACIOUS ONE BEDROOM UNFUR­Expenenced typ1st Will do typ1ng. 

to give him your 0-C address. Additional­
NISHED APT GARAGE BSMT WANTED ANY HOCKEY EQUIPMENT ly, there will be a party on SENIOR TRIP TRAVEL NIGHTReasonable rates. Call287·5162. 
UTILITIES INC. 

EXCEPT SKATES. DAVE 1578 Friday this weekend. Contact Robbi, Bw­Wednesday. Nov 17
EXCEPT ELEC LW W. S BEND 240 00 


PERSONALS
STUDENT GOVERNMENT ney, or your donn rep tor the 7·30 pm-Carroll Hall (SMC)

A MONTH PLUS DEPOSIT 287-5535 Need nde to Monneapolos tor Thanksglv· information necesswy. All donn reps CALIFORNIA, HERE WE COME !I!
JOB BANK 

N1ce clean, 4 room s1ngle, appliances & 1ng Can leave 11/23. please call should rememb.-that th•e will Paul8775 JOIN REGGIE EVERY MONDAY AND be a meeting in LaFortune tonight. Don't To do 1s to be EMPLOYMENT 
STAMFORD ART: TEMP. XMAS maJOr uhhties furnished 

FRIDAY MORNING FROM 10 AM TO 11 miss~-Signed, Executive -Descartes CONTACT JAN CRAIGHTON UNIVER­
3 blocks tram memonal hasp 175.00 288· 6721 RIDE NEEDED TO AMARILLO/DALLAS AM FOR THE MID-MORNING BREAK Control. To be os to do 
SITY PARK MALL 

ON WSND AM 64, THE SOUND OF -Sanre 277-2223 AREA FOR BREAK CAN LEAVE 
ANYTIME AND NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S!! GREG, Do be do be doAMERICAN INSTITUTE FOR FOREIGN 
Rent or buy. assume low 1nterst loan w1th WILL TAKE RIDE PARTWAY CALL 

THANKS FOR MODELING YOUR -S~natra STUDY 
small down payment on DAVE at 1578. 

Come and see THE EXORCISTthos Wed BOXERS! YOU GET BY WITH A LITTLE COLLEGE STUDENTS FOR CAMPUS 
2 stoi.Y brick home 4 bedroom bath & a 
and Thurs in the Engmeenng HELP REPRESENTATIVES 

halt fl~place, gas furnace good noeborhood. 275.00 rent 288-6721 Go1ng to or thru EAU CLAIRE, WtSC. for Audotonum 7,9:15. & 11:30 FFROM YOUR FRIENDS. SORRY YOU SMC ALGEBRA PROBLEM. 
CONTACT: MARGIE MCCORMICI\ 203­

MISSED IT DAVE! FIRST SNOW-SEE IRELAND & LIBRARY UNTIL DEC 23 & 629-1012 Thanx break? Need nde. 
THE EXORCIST!!I YOU ON THE FOOTBALL FIELD! LOVE, CHANGING FORAL DATES &
w1ll share usual Brent 8593 SUSIE,CATHY,CHAR(THE QUARTER a? PAPERS 1 or 2 bedroom apt. close to memonal 
MINNESOTANS Daddy wants hos car hospital sem1-turn1shed. 

HELP!!! My mother has threatened WOMAN),CHRIS,AND SHINAHI (AS A BAD ATTEMPT AT FOOLING AN UP·
utllotoes payed 145 00 & 195.00 deposit su1c1de 1f I don't make 1t home tor 
back so I need a nde ST. EDWARD'S HALL. 1882-1982. CATHY WOULD SAY) PERCLASSMAN 

back to ND the Sunday after Thanksgiv­277-5607 after 5:00 Thanksg1v1ng. Please spare her life by 

BA-DUMP·BUMP Ing. (actually 2 rides) 
Dump Doone~bury! Stow Stmon! File REMEBER HiE TRTH ISALWAYSBET­Call Carol at 7730. 
Room 1n 4-1/2 bath home 1n wooded g1v1ng me a nde to beautiful 

St. Edwards Hall turns 100!1!1! Fate! SheJve Aspirinm<~.n! Bring TER THAN FICTION
Baltimore --home of the Onoles -or to the D.C. area. Sl Edward's Hall turns 100!1!11 on that: brilliant paragon of siz:tling satire, 
area. Two m1tes from campus. 
IWANNAGOTO JOISEY Desperately Swimming pool. rec. room w/foreplace. Call Moke at 3401 or 

St Edward's Hall turns 1001!111 that: soon-to-be Pulitztr Dear Lottie K Bear. 
Safe woth plenty of off-street
need ride to anywhere 1n the 

St Edwards Hall turns 1 001!!!! pnze-winrung model of cr~at.ive in­Here IS your second clue The b1g day IS
3402 as soon as poss1ble. My father w111 thank you. genuity. THE BONEHEADS! We, the two days before the 53rd Garden State. Call Laune at 7730. park1ng. Washer and dryer Call Mrs 
Cooper 272-3004 after 12 noon 

St. Edward's Hall. 1882-1982 Supermen Puhlic. demand the funher adventures of anniversary of the doscovery ot lhe South Need nde to DETROIT For Thanksgiving. '"a super dorm. thai dynamic duo. Way to Pole by Admoral Byrd Share usual. 6849 go, Fosi Ver Monker. Love from the B1g K Bear 
The Observer learned Thursday that
\. LOST/FOUND \1~.-..-_W_A_N_TE_D_____J 

I WILL LOSE MY VIRGINITY FOR A LAURIE P RIDE HOME!II need a rfde to Phil. HOLD ON CAUSE WE LOVE YOU 
Ride needed to St.Louis for Thanksgiving Sov1et leader Leonid Brezhnev Will not 

break, leav1ng Wed noon. be the speaker at this years commence· area or Delawwe. Can leave TuM. or A MAN FROM MORRISSEY
Will share usual. Please call Jean at 289­Wed. Pleasa call Ed at 8639. 
Found nec~lace in ACC. Call 5149 at Need riders to NJ for Thanksgiving break. ment 
9304. exerc1ses.
SMC and indentify. Call George 6809. 


The Observer Wednesday, November 1 7, 1982 -page 9 
Irish opponents 
· DePaul,Marquette,IUtops 
EDITOR'S .VOTE: This is the second installment of Tht: As­sociated Press' four-part series previeU'inp, the 1982-83 collegiate /Jasketball season. Today: the Mid­west. 
ByJOE MOOSHIL 
Associated Press 
No superpowers and no dominant teams. That's the way things shape up on the Midwest collegiate basket­ball scene, which could feature some wild conference races and mad scrambles by the major in­dependents for NCAA playoff berths. 
The Big Ten and the Missouri Val­ley Conferences both opted for the three-point goal this season but vetoed the shot clock, while the Mid-American Conference decided to let well enough alone and refused to make any rules changes. 
DePaul, Marquette and Notre Dame will be fighting for NCAA berths and for the first time in years, DePaul will be without a superstar. The Blue Demons lost All-American Terry Cummings via the same hardship route to the pros taken by his predecessor. Mark Aguirre. 
"Our goal," said DePaul Coach Ray Meyer, "is to win 20 games, get into the NCAA tournament and then lose our first game." 
Meyer was kidding but also relat­
ing what has happened to DePaul in 
recent campaigns. If DePaul doesn't 
and it might not he easy -the entire 
nation will know why, as the Blue 
Demons are scht:duled to appear on 
national television at least six times. 
Meyer says coaching will be fun 
again without a superstar. He'll work 
his 41st season with returnees Ber­
nard Randolph, Ken Patterson and 
Walter Downing. Tony jackson 
could be the best ofthe newcomers. 
Hank Raymonds is still coaching at Marquette and he'll build around veterans Glenn "Doc" Riv~rs, Marc Marotta and Dwayne johnson. The Warriors are shooting for an 18th straight winning season and 17th straight postseason tournament bid. 
When assessing the Big Ten, the smart thing to do is start with In­diana. where Bobby Knight has coached 12 years and won or shared six Hig Ten championships, two NCAA championships and other post-season titles in the NIT and th t e old Collegiate Commissioners' tour­ney. 
Sharpshooters Ted Kitchel and Randy Wittman are back and probably the reason Knight voted for the three-point rule. In all, In­diana has nine plaYers returning from the team that tied ti>r second, including Jim Thoma~. one of the finest all-around player!> in the league. 
Iowa lost Ken Arnold and Kevin Boyle but Coach Lute Olson has veterans returning in Michael Payne, Greg Stokes, Bob Hansen, Mark Gan­non and Steve Carfino. If 7-0 Brad Louhas can break into the starting lineup, 6-10 Payne can shift to the forward position he prefers. 
Minnesota lost most of its cham­pionship starting lineup but return­ing is 7-3 Randy Breuer, probably the best player in the Big Ten. Back again is 6-7 Zebedee Howell. Roland Brooks, a 6-7 junior college transfer, 

win 20 games this time around ­

and  6-11  freshman  John  Shasky  
could help.  
Ohio  State  has  a  veteran  team  

returning but the Buckeyes lost Clark Kellogg and might be hard­pressed to duplicate their tie for second place. Michigan State and Il­linois could be darkhorses. Michigan State lost only Kevin Smith and Il­linois has a fine blend of veterans who will be joined by outstanding freshmen Efrem Winters and Bruce Douglas. 
~lichigan State, which lost only Kevin Smith from last year's team, hopes to reverse a· trend of losing close games in the closing minutes. The Spartans could easily become contenders as could Illinoi.,_ which has Derek Harper at guard and boasts two of the finest frc~hnien in the league in 6-11 Efn:m Winters and Bruce Douglas. 
Bradley won the Missouri Valley title last season, was snubbed by the NCAA after being eliminated in the conference tournament and went on to capture the NIT champion­ship. 
The Braves have Voise Winters and Willie Scott back, and if Pierre Coopercan stay healthy, Coach Dick Versace's charges will contend along with Wichita State, Tulsa and Illinois State. 
Returning for Wichita State is An­toine Carr, one of the league's most dynamic players. Rick Lamb will lead Illinois State's veteran contin­gent, and 6-10 junior Bruce Vanley heads up a Tulsa lineup sprinkled with outstanding sophomores and freshmen. 
Ball State graduated five players from its championship team and lost Coach Steve Yoder to Wisconsin, all of which should open things up in the Mid-American Conference. Top contenders appear to be Bowling Green, Toledo and Ohio University, all ofwhich can field veteran teams. 
Last year, Evansville captured the 
Midwestern City Conference title, 
won the league playoff and ad­
vanced to the NCAA tournament 
with a 23-6 record. The Aces lost 
Brad Leaf but have 6-9 point guard 
Richie johnson back. 
Oral Roberts with 6-7 Chris 
Cantrell and Xavier, returning all 
five starters, including Anthony 
Hicks, figure to be serious challen­
gers. 


Freshman joey Buch,anan (11) drives on senior All-American john Paxson (4) in Sunday's charity intrasquad game at the ACC. Buchanan andPaxson willbe in the same backcourtSunday in the exhibition game against the Yugoslavian National Team. (Pboto by Rachel Blount) 

THE DEADLINE FOR RECEIPT OF STUDENT SUMMER JOB APPLICATIONS IS 
First Brave since Aaron 
Dale Murphywins NLMVP 

NEW YORK (AP) -Outfielder Dale Murphy, whose power-hitting and ability to drive in runs led he At­lanta Braves to a division title, today was namt:d the National League's Most Valuable Player for 1982. 
Murphy, one of two players named on all 24 ballots, easily out­distanced St. Louis Cardinals outfiel­der Lonnie Smith for the annual award given by the Baseball Writers Association of America. Murphy drew 14 first-place votes from the pand made up of two writers from each league cit, along with eight seconds and one each for third and fourth for a total of 28~ points in the balloting. 
Smith, who received eight first­place votes. wa.o; a distant second with 218 points. The other two first place votes went to Cardinals' relief pitcher Bruce Sutter, who received a vote from each panelist. 
Murphy; 26, attributed the overall play of the Braves, winners ofthe NL west, with having a great deal to do with his performance. He raised his 1981 batting average by 34 points to a solid .281, tied for the league lead in runs batted in with I09 and slammed 36 home runs. 
"I'd have to say that the main thing was that we were doing well as a team," Murphy said, "and 1think that really helps an individual perform. You know something's on the line everytime you go out. As a result, you do better as individuals." 
The 6-foot-5 Murphy also showed a marked improvement as a center­fielder in his fifth major league 

E COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC POLICY STUDIES THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO 
TWO YEAR MASTER'S PROGRAM IN POLICY ANALYSIS 
Steven Loevy, Administrative Director, will be on campus to discuss the program and career opportunities. 
Fri., No¥.19, 9:00,10:00,11:00,1 :30p.m. Small Group Appomtments 
Placement Bureau, Room 213. Thurs., NOV.18, 6:30p.m. "Career Options in Public Policy," Hayes-Healy Center, Room 124. 
Please call tor an appointment, or tor intormalion. 239-5200. 

Interested students wttn any major are welcome to attend these meetings. 
Student Policy issues such as: Urban Fiscal Stress, Health Care, Housing, International Trade, Economic Development, Taxaticm, Regulation. Federalism, Welfare, Energy, Arms Control, Immigration, 

season. 
Los Angeles' Dodgers outfielder Pedro Guerrero, with I 75 points, and Montreal's Expos first baseman AI Oliver with 174 finished third and fourth, respectively. Sutter was fifth with 134. 
Murphy is the first Braves' player to be named MVP since Hank Aaron, then of the Milwaukee Braves, in 1957. The only other Braves' player to win in the 51-year history of the the award was Bob Elliott in 194?. 

FRIDAY,NOV. 19 
THE FORMS ARE 



AVAILABLE AT THE ·ALUMNI OFFICE 201 ADM. BLDG 
I 
ID~e t;tu~ent Jlaners present: 

A!alanfnr all~tasnns 
... 
~-·· 
~ .: ~ ·. 
·.. :~ 
,,. •'I: ~· I 
:_.!: .....:·.1··-j,' ' 
,,..·,. .. · 
.. ~ ·. . ... ~·' 
;.';,··: 
....'>' . ' 
-~­
;~ . 
.,_~ 
.. 
.. .-:: -·· 
_,,. 
.. 
": 
..... ':'o'' 

~ .. · 
aplan in two arts 

The Student Players Fall dramatic production Wts the stage this weekend, 
Robert Bolt's reknowned story ofthe conflicts be­
tween Sir Thomas More and Henry VIII. The play will be perfonned in the LaFortune Ballroom (Chautaqua) tomorrow, Friday and Saturday nights at 8 and Sunday at 2. Tick­ets re on saale at the Stu­dentUnion ticketoffice for 
$2.50, and at the door for 
$3. Don't miss the best drama on campus! 


The Observer Wednesday, November 17, 1982-page 10 
District IV 


Runners disappoint in final meet 

...Volleyball 

continuedfrom page 12 
Pagley," says Vanslager. "The team 1s gonna miss that girl and I'm gonna miss her. She is the first player to leave Notre Dame after the two losing seasons and this winning one. This winning season means more to her than to anyone. She realizes where we've been, where we are, and where we will go. 
"She has mental integrity. She knew how to keep those kids togeth· er, what to say, and how to get to their heads. She has a mental aware­ness ofwhat was happening with her teammates on and off the court. She helped a couple out in their personal lives. When she leaves, we'll have to hire a psychologist. 
"When people were dropping right and left from injuries, she never gave up. She believes in magic and, if you can't dream, you'll get nowhere." 
Vanslager is, no doubt, dreaming about next season already. She has excellent players from every state calling and writing her about com­ing here. If the Athletic Department continues its support, it may not be long before Notre Dame has another national champion. 

By NAT RICH 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame cross country team concluded its season Saturday morning with a relatively dis­sappointing performance. Going in­to Saturday's meet, the District IV Championships, the Irish had high hopes of qualifying for the National Championships this weekend. One cause for such high hopes was their superlative performance in their last meet. But things didn't go as planned with a.subpar performance from the team collectively. 
The squad did, however, surpass the expectations of everyone, ex­cept perhaps for the team members 
themsdw-, ,,,,,.,_, _,,.,. Piane praised 

... Agreement 
continuedfrom page 12 
recommendation "was so the players could make an objective decision on their own without our influence." 
"They know it has been accepted by a majority of the reps and we felt it better not to prejudice their deci­sion but to let them make their own decision on this major point in their lives," White said. 
Asked if the tentative contract was worth striking for, union president Gene Upshaw of the Los Angeles Raiders said, "Obviously. We made a heck of a lot of improvements. It's a hell of a money package." Garvey acknowledged that the union did not get the percentage of teams' gross revenue it originally sought but did take a major step toward a wage scale, the foundation of the 
SOME COWGE COURSES 
ARE MORE EXCITING 






THAN OTHERS. 

How many college courses 
reach you how ro shoot the mpidsl 
Or rappel a clifr. Or find your 
wayour of a forest with nothing bur 
a map and compass ro t.,ruide youI 
Ar least one does-Army 
Rare 
And you could find your­
self doing any one of a number 
ofexciting adventure training 
acrivineslike these in rhe Army 
Rare program. 
Acriviries rhar develop your 
stamina. And your self-confi­
dence. 
Bur adventure training isn't 
rhe only way you develop. 
You·u also learn rhe basics of 
leadership and management by 
arrending Rareclasses, along 
wirh rhe subjects in your major. 
And you'll be excited. 
about rwo orher benefit' A.-my 
Rare offers. Financial assis­
tance. Up ro $1.000 a year for 
your lasr rwo years of Army 
Rare And rhe opporruniry ro 
graduate with borh a degree 
and a commission in rcx:lay's 
Army-including rhe Army 
Reserve and Army National 
Guard. 

ARMY ROTC. 
BEAUYOU CAN BE. 
CALL TODAY I ! ! CAPTAIN GREGORY A. CANNATA 239-6264 OR 239-6265 

his team's efforts saying, "Other than the last meer, we ran very com­petitively in every meet, I am definitely proud of our showings. This may not have been the most talented team I've had here, but I'd have to say it's the best one." 
Looking towards rhe future. Piane will surely miss the efforts of his two senior captains, Marc Wozniak and Tim Bartrand. "Sure we'll miss them," Piane commented, "they were two ofour top five runners and more importantly, they were great captains. Probably the best thing about this team was its team unity, and most of that has to be attributed to the leadership qualities of Woz­niak and Bartrand." 
But even with these losses, all is 
not lost for the Irish. Five of their seven varsity runners will be return­ing next season. and with improve­ment similar to the improvement they showed this year, they could possibly surpass this season's out­put. "I'm looking forward to getting these people back, they could do really well," Piane (emarked. 
Overall the season was one ofcon­stant improvement, reaching its peak in the Midwestern City Con­ference Championships, in which the Irish narrowly defeated all ofthe teams in the league Notre Dame recently joined. The team was dis­sappointed with their season-ending performance but as event their coach admit~. they have to be happy w!!h the way the season went. 
players' demands. 

"If we can use this agreement as a 
building block for the future, it is 
certainly worth the effort," Garvey 
said. 
Training camps are to reopen 

today, and the league said Super 
Bowl XVII would be played in 
Pasadena, Calif, Jan. 30, as originally set. The owners' NFL Management 
Council quickly approved the agree­ment, which still must be ratified by the union executive board, player 
representatives of the 28 clubs, three-quarters of the owners and a majority of the 1,500 players. 
Under the revised playoff format, eight games -four in each con­ference -will be played the weekend of Jan. 8-9, with the win­ners playing the weekend of)an. 15­
16. T~e conference championships 
leading to the Super Bowl then would be played the weekend ofjan. 
22-23. 
Paul Martha, a tormer NFL run­ning back and now a lawyer who served as mediator in the final round of negotiations. said the tentative contr:K:t totals SI. 28 billion over five years. 
This Sunday's games are Bal­timore at the New York Jets, Cincin­nati at Philadelphia, Detroit at Chicago, Kansas City ai: New Or­leans, the Los Angeles Rams at At­lanta, Miami at Buffalo, Minnesota vs. Green Bay at Milwaukee, New 
England at Cleveland, Pittsburgh at Houston, San Franciscp at St. Louis, Seattle at Denver, Tampa Bay at Dal­las and Washington at the New York Giants. 
On Monday night, San Diego will 
visit the Los Angeles Raiders. 



ARMYROIC 
CAM HELP PUT 
YOU AHEAD OF 

THE CROWD. 
Adding Army ROTC to your college education can give you a competinve edge. 
Regardless elf your chosen major, Army ROTC training magniiies your total learning experience. 
Tr.1ining that helps you develop into a leader, as well as a manager oi money and materials. That buikh your seli­coniidence and decision-making abilities. And gives you skills and knowledge you can U.ll..' anywhere. In college. In rhe mihtary. And in civilian life. 

Anny ROTC provides ~holarsh1p oppornmines and financial assist<mcc ten But, most 1mporramly, Army ROTC lets you J..>rJduate with borh a college deJ..'TL'C and a commission in tc>day's Army, which includes the Army Reserve and National Guard. 
So come out ahead by enrolling in Am1y ROTC. For more mformatiun contact the Professor of Military Science. 
CALL TODAY ! ! CAPTAIN GREGORY A. CANilATA ARMY ROTC. 239-6264 OR 239-62ti5 
BEALLYOU CAM BE. 



Ihe~~~======================================== 
T0 d~x=============w=e=d=n=es=d=a=y=,N=o=ve=m=b=e=r=17='=1=9=8=2==p=a=g=e=I=I 
~ ~ior Barwednesdays equal ~ 
: RAFT BEER SPECIAL : •
• : 
Doonesbury 


Garry Trudeau 

_.--Campus 
•12:10 
p.m. -Lecture, "The legacy of the Supreme Court Abortion Ruling," Prof Charles Rice, 101 law School 

• 
3:30 p.m. -Lecture, "Ronald Reagan and latin America: Coping With Hegemony lost," Abraham Lowenthal, 122 Hayes-Healy 

•4:30 
p.m. Microbiology Seminar, "Establishing a genetic system in Candida al­bicans," Dr. P.T. Magee, Galvin Life Sciences 


Auditorium 

•7, 9:15, and 11:30 p.m. -Film, "The Exorcist," 
Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Circle K, S1 
•7:30 
p.m. -Pax Christi General Meeting, Presbytery Basement 

•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Church as Infallible Teacher," Rev. Edward O'Connor, C.S.C., 115 O'Shaughnessy Hall. Sponsored by Thomas More Society 

•7:30 
p.m. -APPLE Computer Users Lecture, "Understanding DOS: What Apple Didn't Tell You," Prof. Paul E. W. Hemmeter, 120 Hayes-Healy 

•s 
p.m. -Slide-Talk-Film, "Duncan Grant: Pain­


Painter of Bloomsbury," Prof. Paul Roche, Annen­berg Auditorium, Sponsored bv Art Department 
T.V. Tonight
David J. Adams 



The Irish Gardens 
your Screw your lloommate Headquarter 
Stay on campus and save $$$by letting us take care of your Dower needs 
RD.SMC available
Located off the Razz in the basement of Lafortune 
Dial M-U-M-8(6867) 'o place an order
Hours: 1&:10-&:10 

Aspirin Man 

COAIT/1/f. .'I.,._, 8ACK/ 

01/. HI. LOD/(1 DoN 1T 
••• HEY, WHIIT'.S 
f!oTHEf. M£ NoW)
6ol/tl& ON HE~E? 
P..l~ ft'IOVIf. O£AL1 
Y11U KNOW Ht>w 

10 Contend 33 Port: abbr. 

The Daily Crossword 
(with) 34 Teleost 14 USSR-China 35 Farrier 
river 36 Gl enter­15 Near tainment 16 Surrounded grp. 
· by 37 From -Z 


38 Rotates 18 Tumultuous 39 Napery 20 Delayed 41 Store 22 Attractive fixture 23 Expiate 43 Hobo's pack 24 Idols 44 Literary 25 Under most drudge 
Tuesday's Solution 
©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 11117182
11/17/82

All Rights Reserved 
6p.m. 
6:30p.m. 
7p.m. 
7:30p.m. 



46 Hindu poet 19 Eveor 
8p.m. 49 Sustain Enoch 52 Tumultuous 21 Fling 
noise 24 Provides 55 Certain 25 Plane 
9p.m.
horse surfaces 56 Soviet 26 Tothe­river (fully) 57 Asian palm 27 "Lorna-" 
9:30p.m.
58 Lacking 28 Noisy sense 29 Art frame 
10p.m.
59 Scandalous 30 Pilotless 60 Mature airplane 61 Abstract 32 Move 
llp.m.
being briskly 35 Typewriter DOWN part 1 Fishhook 38 Alarming part 39 Singer 
11:30p.m. 2 French Jenny friend 40 Between 3 Clamorous themselves noise 42 Altogether 
12p.m. 4 Handled 43 East Indian 
12:30p.m.5 Precursor tree 6 Tolerate 45 Sweet, in 1 Hat or Spain drawer 46 Ruffian 
8 "Ben-" 47 Subtle air 9 Brief 48 Metric unit visit 50 Long-nosed 10 Stroke fish 
fondly 51 Wave: Fr. 11 Falltodo 53 Swiss 12 Dairy canton 
product 54 Congress· measure man, for 13 Irritable short 
16 22 28 34 16 22 28 34 16 22 28 34 16 22 28 34 16 22 28 34 16 22 28 34 16 
22 
16 22 28 16 22 28 34 16 22 
28 28 16 

NewsCenter 16 22 Eyewitness News Newswatch 28 3-2·1 Contact NBC Nightly News CBS News ABC'S World News Tonight Over Easy Wt.ASH Laverne and Shirley joker's Wild The MacNeil/Lehrer Repon All in the Family Family Feud Tic Tac Dough Straight Talk Real People Seven Brides for Seven Brothers Tales of the Gold Monkey Straight Talk Special Edition FactsofUfe Alice The Fall Guy Survival Special Family Ties Filthy Rich Quincy Tucker's Witch Dynasty NewsCenter 16 22 Eyewitness News Newswatch 28 The Dick Cavett Show Tonight Show Archie Bunker's Place/CBS Late Movie ABC News Nightline 
ABC Late Night News Late Night with David Letterman 
r­
, 
S~orts 

~~-~ ------~------~­

16 tackles to lead the Notre name defense. At rigbt, Ricb O'Connor spotlights tbe "Gold Rush" as it beads into this week's game at Air Force. (Photo by Tom White) 
Season resumes Sunday 
Agreement reached; NFLstrike over 
NEW YORK (AP) -A tentative agreement was reached last night to end the 57-day-old National Football League strike, the longest and costliest walkout in sports history. The season is to resume Sunday, limited to nine games with an ex­panded and JUggled 16-team playoff format. 
The settlement, subject to ratifica­tion by player representatives of the 28 clubs and the owners' Manage­ment Council, and then three­quarters of the owners and a majority of the 1,500 players, was confirmed by management negotiatorjack Donlan, union direc­tor Ed Garvey and union president Genc Upshaw. 
"1 think we have a tentativc agrcc­
mcnt," Donlan said. "I am hoping it 
can be ratitled tonight. I am happy 
and elated." 
"The long battle that began three or four years ago has finally come to a tentative conclusion," said Ed Gar­vey, executive director of the NFL Players Association. The union's cx-
First winningseason 
Underclass keys volleyball rise 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
The 1982 Notre Dame women's 
volleyball team has completed what 
was, by far, its most successful 
season ever. In only its third year as a 
varsity sport, the team finished with 
an impressive 25-9 record after 
suffering through seasons of .3-19 
and 17-25. 
The improvement this season marks what could be a rapid rise to national prominence. Only the second women's sport to grant scholarships (basketball was the first), volleyball at Notre Dame has a bright future. The first two scholar­

ships were awarded last year and two more were granted this year. This pattern should continue for at least two more years, putting the majority ofthe team on scholarship. 
Entering this season, the coaches, Sandy Vanslager and Dan Anderson, did not know quite what to expect from their squad. It was the young­est team ever with only one senior and two juniors, but it also had the 
most competitive experience as a couple offreshmen arrived with im­pressive credentials and the return­ing players had at least a year's experience. 

Vanslager and Anderson were hoping that the team could reverse its losing ways and finish with a very respectable record. They were not disappointed as the team overcame an incredible string ofinjuries to put itself in contention for an NCAA playoff bic. 
"I have a good feeling about this season," says Vanslager. "W.: won every match at home, and, in our seasonal (non-tournament) record, we only lost one and that was dtic to an injury. We were also very sue­cessful in tournamcnts. We got into two semifinals. After three years of working hard and gaining ex­perience, this was the year that it 
showed." 
Although the increase in talent with the addition oftwo outstanding freshmen played a big part in the team's improvement, Vanslager feels that a new weight training program and a new offensive system were the most important reasons. 
However, there was a major obstacle that the players were forced to overcome -injuries. Out of the five players who were consis­tent starters early in the season, only two were not forced out of action for a length of time. The players, co-captains Mary Jo Hensler and Josie Maternowski, Karen Bauters, Mary McLaughlin, and Terese Henken, and their other teammates showed a good deal of inner toughness by overcoming the problem. 
The injury troubles began when McLaughlin missed almost a week of practice and a match because of an illness. As soon as she returned, Henken went out with a chipped bone in her knuckle which has forced her to play with her finger wrapped up. 
Banters was the t next casualty as she landed wrong on her ankle and sprained it. While she was still on crutches, Maternowski joined her with an even worse sprain. 
Vanslager was impressed with the way her players handled themselves in the face ofproblems. 
"Mary]o Hensler did an outstand­ing job playing through the entire season even though she was 
inJured," shc said of the sopllomore who became ~ole captain of the team when Maternowski went out. "We were also lucky that Mary i\lcLaughlin stayed healthy. 
"It was so sad when Josie was injured. just before she was hurt, her setting was getting to be very ac­curate. Maureen Morin did an excel­lent job replacing her. She was a savior." 
Terese Henken's performance was perhaps the most pleasant surprise ofall. The junior performed steadily all year despite playing with her finger wrapped to protect her knuckle. 
"Terese improved so much I can't believe it," said Vanslager. I was pleased with her performance from beginning to end." 
Vanslager was also very pleased with the players that were called on to fill in for the injured players. Robin Israel and jackie Pagley were the major contributors. Israel played most of the year as the sixth starter while P T agley was used offthe bench many times. julie Pierson, Nancy Evans, Tracy Bennington, and Sue Medley also were effective when called upon. 
"Robin all of a sudden blossomed," said Vanslager. "Some of her skills got very proficient. Her hitting power was so good and she has a good knowledge ofthe rhythm ofthe game. 
Obviously, Vanslager is excited about the team's prospects for next year. There will be at least two more excellent players while she only loses one to graduation. That loss,though, is a big one. 
"We can write a book aboutJackie 
See VOLLEYBALL, page 10 

Wednesday, November 17, 1982-page 12 
'Gold Rush' readies for Air Force 
A FEW AMONG MANY-Penn State became only the fourth team since 194.3 to win its first game in Notre Dame Stadium. There are now nine teams who have pulled this off: USC in 19 3 1, Purdue in 19.3.3, Texas in 19.34, Iowa in 1940, Michigan in 19'-!2. .\lbsouri in 1972, Clemson in 1979, Florida State last season, and the lions. 
<;OLD RUSH CONSISTENT-Despite giving up more yardage to Curt \Varner than to any individual team thi-; season, the Irish defense remains ranked third in this week'~ N(AA rushing defense poll. They rank eighth in total defen~e and !.3th in seering dct(:n,.e. 
Senior captain ,\lark Zavagnin leads the ream 111 tackle. with 93, Zavagnin ha~ made 1.3 or more tackles in four of tht: last 11ve games, including 16 again~t Penn State. He is close!} tollow~·d b~ sopho­more Mike Larkin who has 89. Kevin Griffith leads down linemen with 5.3 tackles and five sacks. 

HIGH-FLYING FALCONS -Notre Dame will again be tested by one ofthe top offensive machines in the country this week, when the Irish rr.tvel to Colorado Springs to play Air Force. The Falcons are ranked third in the country in rushing offense, eighth in total offense, and 12th in scoring. 
Running out of the wishbone, junior fullback John Kershn~r has combined with quarterback Marty Louthan for over 1,500 yards on the ground, with Louthan throwing for 1,0.33 more. Add tleld goal kicker Sean Pavlich who is 12-of-1-i on the year and combine with the inevitable letdown after playing Pitt and Penn State in con­secutive weeks, and this game, supposed!} a breather for the Irish before Southern Cal, could be much closer than anyone currently 
anticipates. Air Force has already won more games th.m any falcon team in the past eight years. They might be able to catch the Irish on the low side. Oregon did. 
SHUTOUT -Air Force has yet to win a game with the Irish in II previous mectings. Last year Notre Dame won .3'i-..., but nl·eded 21 tounh-quarter point~ to do so. Saturday's game will he tdevbed to the Notre Dame area by WNDU's very ownJeffjeffers andJack l'<olan with kickoffslated for .3 p.m. South Bend time. 
HUNTER STREAKING -With his reception in tht· final minute of the Penn Statc game, Tony Hunter extended his ~trcak of con­sccutivc games with a reception to 21. He has caught at least one pass in 38 ofthe 40 games he's played. Only USC in 19HO, and Miami in the 1979 Mirage Bowl have shut him out. 
Hunter now stands fourth on Notre Dame's careeer reception list. His current total of 110 trails Ken MacAfee's 128,Jim Scvmour's 1;38, and Tom Gatewood's leading total of 157. Hunter's 1,775 yards in receptions trails only Gatewood and Seymour in that category. 
KJEL MOVING UP -Injured Quarterback Blair Kiel is currentlY in seventh place on the season completion list, despite missing mo~t ofthe Penn State game. With at least two games to play, Kiel's total of 100 is ten shy of Terry Hanratty's 1967 total, l·i behind John Huartc's 1964 total, and 16 offHanratty's 19M~ mark. Ktel stands fifth in career completions with 215. Tom Clements is fourth with 265 and joe Montana third with 258. 
IS THIS ANYWAY TO TREAT A GUEST -The Yugoslavian nation­al basketball team is playing a suicidal schedule this week before coming to Notre Dame. They beat Marquette 70-60 Sunday night, defeated Kansas Monday, and played Memphis State yesterday. Arkansas plays host to the Yugoslavs Friday and Brigham Young plays them Saturday. And the AAU calls these guys amateurs? Even the NBA doesn't play six games in one week 
In previous exhibitions against international opponents in the ACC, the Irish have split four games with the Soviet Union, defeated Poland I 01-91 in 1980, and lost to the Belgrade Red Star team from Yugoslavia 81-76last year. This year's game with Yugo will probably be televised by CBS Sunday at 4 p.m. 
UNDER THE LIGHTS -TV lights that is. No, Musco will not be providing portable lighting for this season's Notre Dame basketball telecasts. NBC will televise Irish games with Maryland, UCLA, and North Carolina State early next semester. CBS will also televise the DePaul game on Feb. 26. Metrosports will broadcast nine games this season starting with the suicidal week featuring Kentucky, UCLA, and Indiana. 
GOING BOWLING -Bowl scouts for the Cotton, Sugar, Orange, Fiesta, and Gator Bowls were in attendance Saturday for the PSU game. Obviously, Irish fans will not be partying in New Orleans for New Year's, but NO is still in the running, however slightly for bids to the Fiesta, Gator, or Bluebonnet Bowls. Whether the University will allow acceptance of a bid from a so-called "minor" bowl is another · question. The cost of sending the team, the band, and the entire official party ofdeans, managers, front office people and their wives can be prohibitive. The powers that be may not accept a bid to a "lesser" bowl unless expenses for the trip arc covcred. 
ecutive committee decided to sub­mit the tentative agreement to the 1,500 striking players without recommendation. 
Garvey said the players would return to work as soon as possible and would play this weekend before a full ratification vote next Tuesday. 
"It's a decision the players will make whether to accept the agree­ment," Garvey said. 
Detroit Lions player representa­tive Stan White said the lack of a See AGREEMENT, page 10 







