, , , 'Big Sister ' -page 5 
VOL XVI, NO. 74 THURSDAY,JANUARY 14, 1982 
65 people perish as plane crashes into icy Potomac 
WASIIINGTON (AP)-A Florida­suburban Virginia. The craft hit the hound jetliner roan·d from a snowy span nearest the airport, bearing takeotf and crashed into a Potomac traffic, much ofit from the Pentagon, River bridge yesterday, smashing headed into the city or neighboring automohiln and plunging into the Maryland from Virginia. i<:y water. Ahout 65 people were: The snowstorm had closed the reported kilkd. hut the casualty airport periodically during the day. 
count was unconlirmed. An AP photographer said he saw 

The Bodng 7:~7 was an Air Florida bodies strapped into airliner seats tlight. with a hooking of 68 passen­beneath the surface ofthe Potomac. gers and a crew of live, hound from The snow stopped shortly after Washington National Airport to the crash, but the foul weather Tampa and l't. Lauderdale, Fla. The impeded rescue efti.>rts. The tem­actual numbt·r of people on board perature hovered in the 20s, wind could not he verit1cd. whipped the river. 
Lt. Hiram Brewton, a District of One witness said one of the <:olumhia police spokesman, said plane's wheels hit a truck on the there wae believed to he only live bridge. survivors from the plane. A spokes­jerome Lancaster, an Air Force man for the Federal Aviation Ad­sergeant who was in the traffic jam ministration. Ted Marr, said an on the bridge at the time ofthe crash "unofficial" estimate "would be 65 said "It looked like he lost his direc­dead." tion. The plane's wheel hit a truck. 
Police Capt. Michael L. Canfield Another witness, Terence Bell, said at least six motorists were killed said the nose of the plane broke a.~ the plane sheared the tops ofcars away from the fuselage, plunged t into and hit a truck. the bridge and sank into the 
At least 16 survivors were taken to Potomac about 25 yards ott" the Vir­Washington hospitals, some suffer­ginia shore. ing crash injuries, some the effects of The tail section also broke away, tht· frigid rivt:r. Bell said, and floated for about 20 
Evt·n as ambulances and rescut: minutes. Bell said he saw five or six crews struggled through the snow people emerge and escape across -and the ma.~sivt: traffic jam it the icc coating the river. produced -to the bridge, three people were killed when a Washing­Coast Guard and Park Police ton subway car hurtled from its helicopters were sent to the scene track ncar the Smithsonian Institu­to drop lines with lifesaving rings to tion station. survivors in the river. One survivor 
As darkness -and temperatures grasped a ring, but then fell back into -fell, divers worked by floodlight the freezing water, and was pulled to in the ice-crusted river, searching shore by divers. ti.>r victims. Rescue boats were at the scene, 
Within minutes after the crash, too, but the ice impeded their work. helicopters pulled several survivors The airport was closed, with incom­from the river. Presumably, most of ing flights diverted to Dulles Inter­the others aboard the plane perished national Airport in Virginia. under the ke. 
It was not known how many ofthe The crash occurred little more 16 known survivors were from the than a mile from the White House. plane or vehicles struck upon the The government had shut down bridge, a multi-lane artery with its offices in midafternoon because three spans connecting the city with ofthe snow that blanketed the city. 

While the campus is again full ofactivity, the ness. (photo by Cheryl Erte/t) log chapelstillseemsbidden in a peaceful wilder-
Holiday burglaries 

Crime hits 0-C, Holy Cross 
By TONI RUTHERFORD entry. The inside of the house was previously by Security at m10mgm andJOHN MACOR left in disarray in an apparent search on the evening of the intrusion. At News Staff for items. approximately 2:30 a.m., a security South Bend police were notified 
guard discovered the break-in. Break-ins of student residences ofthe break-ins, but their records do 
Footsteps leading from the back of seem to occur over vacation not show if a victim is a student or a Holy Cross to the Fatima Retreat 
periods. Matt Huffman, off-campus permanent resident of town. This Center have led Security to believe commissioner, reported that over makes it virtually impossible to form that the robbers parked their vehicle break his house was broken into for an accurate count of student break­
at the center and carried the stolen the second time. The first break-in ins. goods there. occurred over Thanksgiving break. Off-campus students are not the Most of the rooms robbed were There were also three break-ins last only victims. Glenn Terry of Notre located in the "old section" of the year at the same residence. Dame Security reports an incident at building. Losses were found to have In the past, items such as clock Morrissey that turned out to be a stu­occured in "the eight," a complex of radios, a speaker system, money, and dent trying to get into his room. rooms housing eight students. From 
things of that type were stolen. This Numerous break-ins were also the losses incurred and items not time, loss was due to damage. The reported at Holy Cross. stolen, it appears that the criminals intruder broke the back door and a Suffering its second break-in of selected with some care which window on the side of the house, the school year, Holy Cross Hall was items to steal. Stereos were not and also tore the moulding off a the victim of a burglary in the early stolen in some of the rooms, but in locked door while trying to gain morning of December 28. other rooms full stereo systems 
From evidence gathered by Notre were taken. One student's stolen 


Fr. Keena, Chroust pass away 
Saint Mary's Campus Ministry member fr. Joseph P. Keena died at 
7:45 p.m. jan. 4 in St. joseph's Medi­cal Center after a brief illness. He was 61. 
Keena wa.~ horn Ike. I 0, 1920 in New York City and entered the Holy Cross Novitate, North Dartmouth, Ma.~s., Aug. I 5, 1942. He made his lirst profession of vows in the east­ern province of the Congregation of Holy Cross on Aug. 16, 1943. 
He graduated from the University of Notre Dame in 1946 and, after completing theological studies at lloly Cross College, Washington, D.C., he was ordained to the priest­Chruch of Loretto, Saint Mary's. Fr. Thomas J. McDonagh officiated. Fr. Robert Kreig, offered the homily. Services were also conducted in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., jan. 7. Burial was in Communty Cemetery, Stonehill College. 

A memorial service will be con­ducted for Keena in the Church of Loretto, Jan. 24 at 10 a.m. 
Anton-Hermann Chroust, 74, Professor Emeritus of Philosophy, History and Law, died Monday after an unexpected illness. 
Chroust came to Notre Dame in 1946, after serving 12 years as a Har­Dame Security, the robbers gained entry into the dorm by breaking an obscure rear window in the base­m~nt. Once through the window, the criminals, using a back stairway, had access to the entire dorm. In all, thirteen rooms were robbed by the intruders, who were belived to be from the Northeast Neighborhood. 
The building had been checked stereo was valued at approximately S500. 
Since many of the rooms have been burglarized for a second time this year, victims were understan­dibly upset. One irate member of "the eight" vindictively noted that they "wanted to have a lottery to sec who chops the hands otl"ofthe guilty parties." 
Rush-hour subway derails, kills 2 in Washington, D4C. 
WASHINGTON (AP) -At least Cody Pfanstiehl, a spokesman for 
two people, perhaps thn:e, were the Washington Area Metropolitan 
killed and eight injured Wednesday Transit Authority, said he had been 
when a rush-hour subway train told by the Fire Department that 
derailed just about the time an air­eight people were hurt. He said he 
liner slammed into a bridge, officials did not know the extent of the in­
said. juries. 
Rescue efforts in the subway acci­Pfanstiehl said the subway train, dent were disrupted by the commit­bound from northern Virginia ment of disaster units to the bridge through the District of Columbia to about a mile and a halfaway. the Maryland suburbs, could have 
Firefighter Bill Giovanni said he been carrying as many as I,500 saw "three dead people, two women people. and a man ... There were many in­He said he did not know the cause juries." of the derailment. Passengers said it 
Giovanni said only one car of the occurred shortly after the train left train -which normally would have the Smithsonian Station, came to an six or eight cars -left the tracks. unexplained stop and began backing That car was torn open, he said. up. 


hood June 6, 1950, in Sacred Heart vard fellow. He received doctorates 
Church. in law, philosophy and history from 
Keena received both his master's the German universities ofErlangen, 
and Ph. D. degree from NO and Munich and Wurtzburg, and served 
taught in the English department at on the Olympic gold-medal-winning Stonehill College, North Easton, German water polo team in 1928. Mass., from 1953 to 1978. Since Chroust wrote almost 200 articles 1979 he has been a member ofSMC and books on ancient, medieval and 
Campus Ministry. He is survived by modern legal history, ancient his­his mother, Mrs. Katherine Keena, of tory and philosophy, and South Bend. jurisprudence in general. 
Services for Fr. Keena were con­Funeral services will be today at 3 ducted at 10 a.m. Jan.. 6 in the p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. 
~~-------­



News Brie./§ 
Thursday,Januaryl4,19S2-page2 
~~~~====~============================~ 

by The Observer and The Associated Press 
The neW deli line will begin operation at the South Dining Hall approx t imately Feb. 2. It will be open Monday through Friday at lunchtime only. The speciality items will include two soups, cold cuts, cheeses, breads and potato chips. Students will choose their sandwichesnd kitchen employees will prepare them. Much consideration has been given to the fact that service may be slow. The efficiency will be as great as possible, yet student coopera­tion will help. -The Observer 
Students may obtain copies of their tax returns or microfilm transcripts of their return informaion needed for basic education grants and other financial aid by contacting the Internal Revenue Service. The request should be made in writing and addressed to Internal Revenue Service, Chief, Taxpayer Service Divi­sion, Post Office Box 44211/Stop 60, Indianapolis, Ind., 46244. Since the time required for processing these requests is at least eight weeks, students should anticipate their need for tax returns and timely submit their request to IRS. Call the IRS, toll-free, at 1·800­382-9740.-The Observer 
Kosimierz Braun, a professor scheduled to join the ND-SMC Communications and Theatre Department, has been unable to leave Poland because of martial law restrictions limiting travel of Polish citizens. His arrival is still questionable. "It's really up in the air," stated Department chairman Mitchell Lifton, "but we should know by next week." Braun's classes will not be cancelled until the situation is clarified. 
A 67-year-old man in Aripeka, Fla., was charged with second-degree murder after another man died following a game of Russian roulette, sheriffs deputies said. Pasco County sheriffs deputies arrested Howard Ernest Agee of Spring Hill after Nicholas Wendt, 26, died Tuesday of a gunshot wound to the chest from Agee's .357-caliber Magnum. Wendt had removed five ofsix bullets in the gun, then tried to spin the cylinder, officials said. Agee then took the gun and tried to spin the cylinder, officials said. But instead 
of pointing the gun at himself, Agee pointed it at Wendt and ftred, deputies said. -AP 
Strip-search policies must be the same for men and women in order to be legal, a federal judge has ruled in a class-action suit against the Chicago Police Department. U.S. District Judge Thomas R McMillen ruled Tuesday that the department's pre-1979 policy ofroutinely strip-searching women violated equal protection rights because men were not routinely subjected to strip searches. The suit was filed by the American Civil Liberties Union in 1979 on behalf of 191 women who said they had been strip searched by police matrons. The judge has not yet set damages. After the suit was filed, the city offered to pay 5250 to each woman subjected to a simple strip search and $1,000 to all women who claimed they un­derwent a body cavity search. Ninety women accepted. -AP 
Two Baltimore, Md. teenagers have been charged with murder in the weekend slaying of an art restoration expert, police said. The nude body of Peter Michaels, 54, was discovered Monday at his home. He had been stabbed to death, police said, and his car and several firearms at his home had been stolen. Police charged Ralph Mills, I 7, and Bobby Oxentine, 14, with murder, and they were being held without bail according to Dennis Hill, a spokes­man for the police department. Hill said the teenagers met Michaels in downtown Baltimore on Saturday and that Michaels took them to his home in the Mount Washington section ofthe city. Michaels was an associate conservator at Walters Art Galley until starting his own business in 1974. He specialized in the restoration of paintings. ­
AP 

An anonymOUS Caller in Bilbao, Spain told a newspaper yesterday that the Basque guerrillas who kidnapped German-born industrialist josef Lipperhcide on jan. 5 were treating him well. The caller to the Basque militant newspaperEgin said the 76-year-old industrialist was "in perfect health" and that ETA guerril­las would soon announce conditions for his release. Lipperheide, who came to Bilbao in the early 1920s, is the head of more than a dozen firms in northern Spain. The industrialist's relatives said his abductors told them at the time of the kidnapping they planned to demand "a huge ransom." -AP 
Snow flurries today with an accumulation of 1-3 inches. High of16 degrees. Tomorrow, cloudy with snow beginning. High in the upper 20's. -The Observer 
Plunge broadens urban p~rspective 
During semester break I participated in the Urban Plunge, a 48-hour immersion into urban life designed to enable Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students to ex­perience the problems of injustice, poverty and apathy in U.S. urban areas. 
I was one ofsix students assigned to Saint Malachy's, a 
Catholic parish located on the West Side of Chicago. 
Our hosts were Father St<:phen Mangin, Father john 
Kobur, Sister Mary Robertus, and Sister Maude. 

St. Malachy's is in an area which includes two high· 
rise housing projects and several vacant lots. "There is 
not one complete block in the area," Fr. Stephen noted, 
adding that much ofthe damage resulted from the 1968 
riots. "Some ofour nuns were here during the riots," he 
said. "They watched as property was burned, and saw 
people standing in front of their homes and schools to 
protect them." 

Ethnically, the general area includes Ukranian, 
Italian, Hispanic and black residents. Fr. john, however, 
noted "ethnic stratification". "Most whites are assumed 
to have a negative purpose in this area." he said. "White women are generally assumed to be prostitutes, and white men narcotics agents." 
Fr. John led our group on a walking tour of the West Side area surrounding St. Malachy's. As we walked by 

Urban
a housing project, we saw 
three children, one ofwhom 

As we walked through the
was holding a knife in front 

~ .fLUNGE i 
area, no one on the street
of him. "Most people in this 


-~ ~l_ stopped us. A police car,
neighborhood carry 

however, stopped us by the 
weapons at all times to ·-·: 
. !I 

/!J,··­
housing project and an of­
protect themselves," Fr. 

\' r· 
ficer asked what we were
john said. "Many bring guns 

doing in the area. When Fr.
and knives with them to 

john explained that he was a
bingo here every week." 

priest, the officer asked if he
The housing projects in 

was carrying a gun. When Fr.
this neighborhood are filled 

john answered "no", the of­
with people Mayor Byrne 

ficer said "well, good luck"
"pushed" out of Cabrini­
and drove off.
Green after she moved into 

A fire ambulance later
that housing project last 

stopped and asked if we had
spring, according to Fr. 

business in the area. They of-
John. 

fered us a ride, but we
Fr. Joachim of nearby Our Lady of Sorrows parish, who grew up in the Cabrini neighborhood, expects the Cabrini-Green housing project to change drastically within the next few years. The mortgage on Cabrini-Green will be paid in 1983, and Fr. Joachim claims there are plans to convert it into a luxury apartment complex. 
"This is gradually taking place," Fr. Joachim said. "The tenants are systemmatically being removed from the buildings, and the surroundingarea is beingcleared. It is in the perfect location for a luxury complex -a ten minute walking distance from the Loop. Eventually, this will take place over the entire West Side. I think the people currently in this area will migrate to the sub­urbs. Suburban housing is constructed more poorly than the buildings in this area," he said. 
We visited one ofthe tenants in that first project. Dol­
ly, a 25-year-old wife and mother of two, lives on the 
fifth floor of the building with her husband Red, a 20· 
year old laborer. Dolly is taking classes at a local junior 
college to qualify for nursing school. She noted the high 
incidence ofviolence in the housing projects. "I would 
The_Qbs.eryer 
Design Editor ....................... Monica Gugle Design Assistants .......... Suzanne La Croix Prod Layout Staff.................................... Al Gnoza Typesetters ..........................)im MacLennan . Stephen Brown News Editor ..................... Cathy Domanico Copy Editors ......................... )oe Musumeci Tim Neely Sports Copy Editors ............ Chris Needles Dave Dziedzic Typist ...................................... )eanine Hynes Systems Control ................... Bruce Oakley ND Day Editor ............ Randall Goskowicz Ad Design ................................. John & Mary Photographer ..................................... Cheryl Guest Appearances ........................... Rachel Return ofthe Moose, Max, McGinn The "new" Rolly Sis & AMF with advice Observer shirts Implicating photos 


not advise anyone to live here because ofthe violence," she said. "People hurt you for no reason -all you have to do is be in the building to pwvoke them. I have lived here for eighteen years, and have adjusted to the condi­tions. I don't mind living here." 
Dolly added that the police don't seem to cate about the violence, and rarely respond to calls. " Once a man in this building was beaten and thrown out of a win· dow," she said. "The ambulance arrived, and though he was still alive they dragged him to the vehicle instead of placing him on a stretcher and carrying him. Even if they thought he was dead, they could have carried his body on a stretcher -he deserved that respect as a human being." 
Fr. John claimed that he found a dead woman on a 
street corner last year. "I 
called the police, returned 
an hour later, and found her 
still there." 

declined. We walked about five miles in the area with· out difficulty. Mayor Byrne called this area a "public disgrace", Fr. john said. This neighborhood averages one shooting and two rapes per night. These crimes rarely appear in newspapers because they are black-on­black crimes, and usually only interracial crime makes news, according to Fr. Stephen. 
"Our school janitor was shot in the stomach with a .44 Magnum one night last year behind a housing project," Fr. John said. "He was driven by ambulance to a hospital that was not equipped for the treatment he required, and the ambulance would not take him to Cook County, a nearby hospital, unless we paid a $70 cash fee. We managed to collect the money, and he went into surgery at 9 am. He died of shock shortly after surgery." Both priests believe that he would have survived had he been treated immediately following the injury, which could have been accomplished. 
We passed a post office where one ofthe parishoners at St. Malachy's claimed she entered to find a man lying in the middle of the floor with a knife in his stomach. She reportedly stepped over him and completed her transaction 
For the Weather or Whatever. PUT YOUR FINGER ON THE FUN. 


CALL MICHIGAN'S WHAT'S LINES! 
Toll Free 800-248-5708 
24-hour recorded messages keep you up-to-date on Michigan snow conditions. 
800-248-5700 
Our travel specialists will give you all you need to know about all there is to ski and do in Michigan. Call between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. E.S.T., Monday through Friday. 
MICHIGAN TRAVEL BUREAU 
Editorial Board




==Ihe1lbserxer== 
Editor-in-Chief..............................john McGrath Founded November 3, 1966 
ExPcutive News Editor...................... .. Kelli Flint Sports Editor .............................. Skip Desjardin 1 News Editor ............................. David Rickabaugh Photo Editor......................................._.John Macor
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the SMC Executive Editor........... Mary Agnes Carey Editorials Editor.......................Anthony Walton
University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily 5M~ News Editor...................... Cathy Domanico Features Editor .........................Gregory Swiercz
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report­ed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of Department Managers a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views 
Business Manager .........................Rich Coppola Production Manager...................Michael Monk 
of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and Controller .............................................joe Multlur Circulation Manager .............Tom MacLennan
the free expression of varying opinions on campus, thrOU&h letters, i5 encow-a&ed. 
Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owen Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)283-8661 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~--~
-

The Observer Thursday, January 14, 1982 -page 3 
Loan problems 
GOP m.ay ax Richards as chief 
WASHINGTQN (AP)-The dis­
dosun· that Repuhlh.:an :'1/ational 
Chairman Rk:hard N. Richards has 
ht:en delint1uem in repaying 
S500,000 in federally guaranteed 
loans stirrnl new spel·ulation Wed­
nesday that he may be forccd out of 
his job. 
White I louse aides insistt-d Presi­
dcnt lkagan fclt Richards "should 
continue as party 1:hairman." 
Hut Richards' difficulties repaying 
thc loans was seen hy some of his 
critks as onc more reason for 
rcpladng him. 
One oftkial who plays a key role in designing the GOP's 1982 dec­
tion stratcgy said, "I don't believe you can have the titular head of the Republican Party leading that party into the campaign of 1982 with the kinds ofclouds that now cover Dick Richards." The official asked not to be identiticd. 
The story of Richards' failure to keep up payments on 5292,000 in loans guaranteed by the Small Husi­ncss Administration was published Wcdnesday in The Washington Post. 
A spokesman for Richards con­firmed the details of the story and said the chairman would not com­ment on the matter. 
New phone directories provide additional info 

By MARK WORSCHEH 
StaffReporter 
New telephone directories have been received and are scheduled to be distributed next week, according to Carl Magel, Director of Printing and Publications. 
Magel said that the installation of the new faculty phone system neces­sitated the change. Faculty and ad­ministration phone numbers now begin with a 239 prefix and require students to dial "9" first. 
"The old directories just didn't 
have sufficient information," said 
Magel. "We thought it was 
worthwhile enough to do this and 
prote1.:t the invl·stmcnt (in the new 
system). We wanted to do it first 
class." 
In addition. \-!agel said that a new roll of students from the registrar's office was used, hopefully correct­ing the omissions in the previous edition. 
The directory is generally supplied free of charge to· the uni­versity, explained Magel. 
"The printers of the book do this because they get permission to sell ads to people in the community. Whatever monies they get from ads is what they get." 
Ombudsman Director Tom Koegel said the directories will be distributed through the Hall Presi­dents Council "sometime early next week." 
Upon recetvmg the new direc­tories, Magel advises students to throw away their old phone books to avoid confusion. 

Recession keeps business from expanding in 1982 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The na­help pull the national e(~onomy out tion's busincsses, starting the year ofits second recession in two years. mired in recession, intend to ignore But executives apparently the Reagan administration's plea for remained unswayed by such argu­a 1982 surge in expansion, a govern­ments when they were surveyed in ment survey showed yesterday. November and December. 
A Commerce Department poll of "I don't think it means the Reagan executives concluded that they now program isn't working; it just hasn't plan to actually cut hack spending picked up steam yet," said Com­for new plants and equipment by 0. 5 merce's chief economist, Robert percent this year, not counting in­Ortner. creases due only to inflation. Considering that the survey was 
Such plans can change quickly, taken as the recession was · really but if "real" capital spending actual­beginning to bite, "these capital ly falls this year, it would be the first spending plans aren't that bad ac­such dedine since the severe 1974 tually," he said. 
recession. Many businesses have cut produc­
Top Reagan officials have said tion and laid off workers as the repeatedly that incentives in the recession has deepened, shelving at multiyear tax cut enacted in 1981 least for the present any plans to ex­shoud spur investment this year and pand. 

''iYCHOUXICAL SU\"U:rs ··t!\Tfil . 

... 
Th•u~y l..roups for pnaona 
w t t h 
Problems In Eating 
Pt,choloalcal Suvlcu Canter hat had an on~aolna project f<N ..., and •n •Hh anoruh. buHala, IMd othlt1' ..u .. u.-h• dhorden. S)"ttptoaa of these dhorders Inch..• 
=~d, ':~•:'. '::',a.r,:r~~ :','!"~•;":~ :0:' :','i"'~ :':,·.·:~·=·· ~~:"'.'i~·.~ :·:~·:':~ :·:~"'' 
T..t..cy to be "-lr &cti.WI I .,.rl ai.... I I I I I I I I I I l I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
~tt.·~ r:~r~c:N 1 :~·~·, •:~';•:~:~.o: ~:~.-~~.~~~':'. ,': C'l', 2:'~ ~·:-:~·.·~.0! .t:ri?. ~·~v:' ~'•'\':','' ~o1 ~o~d 
lf you recoa•u•• thtu 1,.-pt'*' an yourself or aa.eona you .,"'""• than conud•r contuuna aUher Dr. Danaal RybacU or Dr. Su1at1 StatiM at th• Plycl\oloalcal S.rvlcas Canter, St~ent Health Center, :l9-7Utl for further anto....uon or an e\'alu&tton/consult•llon. ­
Th• f1n1 -C"Unt: ol the' .:nJ :o~H»Ur "lJJ N h•Jd .r J:DD P·•·· 
Frulay, J&Auuy lSth on the-lr..l Cloor or. th• Stlid.at Health Can· 
ur. nna wall ba • bua~n•u ...una to ananp U•• for croup• 
&nd to a•t acquaa•ud wut. new and ptoapacUva 1~ ..otn. Jf 
rou 1\&n not atunded·befou, pleua c.ontac:t Dr. -,.tcu 01' 
Dr. SULba be(ora att••U·IIII to llleten.iM whether er •t tk.h Jroup 
IIOU ld Het ~r n...1 Ullll eapactat ions, 

The loans were ued hy Richards and a partner to purchase the American Health and Sports spa in Roy, Utah in 1977. His original partner in the venture was a Utah neighbor, Lew Wangsgard, who later sold his interest to Alex Hutardo, who now heads the political division of the Republican National Commit.­
tee. 
After Richards and his partner failed to make 12 monthly payments on one Sl I 0,000 loan, the SHA had to pay S96,203 to the Bank of Utah. The partners also are behind in pay­!llents on a Sl81,000 loan. 
The S I 10,000 loan was brought up to date last November with a $20,454 payment. But payments of $1,000 due in November, Decem­ber and january were missed. 
"The main reason I don't pay it is I don't have the money to pay it," Ric­hards told The Post. 
The chairman also said he told the acting director ofthe SBA's Salt Lake City office, C. Dale Randall, that "I don't want to be given any special privilege." 
The newspaper quoted SBA offi­cials as saying they expect Richards and his partner to make good on all the payments. The officials said the two part/ ners had pledged their private homes as collateral. 




If the past few days are any indication of what snow is still to come, this shovel will get a lot ofuse. (photo by Cheryl Ertelt) 
* Cllr~EIH!ll ¥ 
monday night film series I 
January 18 
The Convenatlon Zoetrope. Directed by Franc1s Ford Coppola, t974 (tt3 mim.(!es) 
An acerbiC thnller rendenng the psychological disintegration of a tortured surveillance expert 1n a tour de force of paranoia, nar­
rative tngenutty and expressive sound. With Gene Hackman. John Cazale and Robert Duvall. 
January 25 
Broken Bloaaoma United Artists, Directed by D. W. 
Griffith, t9t9 (68 minutes) Domestic melodrama of a villainous boxer. his battered il­legitimate daughter and the Chinese storekeeper who protects her. With Lillian Gish. Donald Barthelmess and Donald Cnsp. 
February 1 
An Evening of Silent Comedy (1 02 minutes) 
Lizzies of the Field 
Billie Bivan stars 1n an auto race turned demolition derby. Laughing Gas and The Pawnshop Charlie Chaplin and the early Keystone crew romp and roughhouse. The Playhouse and Sherlock Jr., 1924 Buster Keaton reeling 1n some of the most startling spectal ef­fects in silent comedy. 
February 8 
Pandora'• Box, Directed by G. W. Pabst. Germany. t92B 
(1t 0 minutes) A remarkably modern portrait of sexual power and destruc­tiveness in one of the most striking works of the German silent 
cinema. 
February 15 
The Mlm with the Movie C.~, Directed by 
Dz1ga Vertov. USSR, 1929 (67 m1nutes) Both a Utopian representation of da1ly life in a Sov1et city and a pointed and witty analysis of filmmaking as political art. 
February 22 
The Blue Angel, D~rected by Josef von Sternberg. 
Germany. 1929 (112 m1nutes) Marlene Dietrich became a star 1n this adaptation of He1nnch Mann's novel about the destruction of a proper schOolmaster at the hands of a barroom Singer 
March 1 
The Au... of the Game, D~rected by Jean Reno1r. 
France. 1939 (11 0 m1nutes) ' Th1s pre-War French film portrays a teetenng anstocracy 1n a fascinating mixture of tragedy and larce. 

March 8 
~,Italy, t942 (135 mtnutes) The debut of Luchino Visconti marks thiS unauthonzed adapta­tion ol James M. Catn"s rne Postman Always Rmgs rwrce. 
March 22 
Ace In the Hole Paramount, Directed by Billy Wilder, 195t 
(122 mtnutes) Thts cynical film follows K1rk Douglas' opportumsuc newspaper­man as he seizes upon a mine acctdentlor journalistic stardom. regardless of the consequences. 
March 29 
Lalit v..r 8t·..rtenbed Cinemascope, Directed by 
Alain Resna1s, France. 1961 (93 minutes) Delphine Seyng and Giorgio Albertazzi star as castaways in a baroque resort 
April 5 
Antonio 0.. Mortes, Directed by Glauber Rocha. Brazil, 
t969 (1 00 mtnutes) The hall-table and hall-political allegory of a hired killer who roams the Brazilian countryside in a 111m that fuses native folktale and music with pollllcal rage. 
Aplll 19 (9:00) 
Kings of the Rolld, Directed by Wim Wender, West 
Germany, t976 (176 m1nutes) A movtehouse technician and a child psychologist travel across rural Germany in this uncompromising and rewarding examina­llon of landscape, friendship and history. 
Aplll 26 
Radio On, Directed by Christopher Pet1t. Great Britain, 
1979 (1 01 minut~s) W1th a spare psychological thnller plot set agatnst mus1c by David Bowie. lan Dury, Wreckless Eric and Kraltwerk. this Is an ambitious joimng of Hollywood. the New German Cinema and new wave music to the EngliSh soc1al and phySical landscape. 
Thursday,)anuary 14, 1982 -page 4 
Veteran's wife 




War follow-s husbands hotne 
The Observer 

ByNANCY TRAVER 
AssociatedPress Writer 
DENVER (AP) -The wives of Vietnam veterans have never watched a buddy die, carried an M­16 rifle or survived in a jungle half a world away. But for many women, 
the war has come home with hus­bands unable to put Vietnam behind them. 
"There are plenty of programs for vets, but their wives are secondary. Many times, I find women suffering even more than their husbands, be­cause they have nowhere to go for help," said psychologist Candis Wil­liams, who, as the wife of a Vietnam veteran, has pioneered a counseling program for other wives. 
Nearly one million American sol­diers served in combat in Vietnam, and half still suffer from the stress they experienced during the war, it seemed they had nowhere to go for help." 

Before she could help the women, she had to learn about what was bothering their husbands, Ms. Wil­liams said. She was able to find the answers to most of her questions by turning to her own husband, who served in Vietnam for two vears. 

Williams said he "buried" most of his memories after his return home from the war. It wasn't until 1979, when he saw the movie "The Deer Hunter," which told the story ofthe war's effects on a group ofmen from a small Pennsylvania town, that Wil-
Course changes can add a burden to studentsduring thefirstfew according to the federal govern­days ofthe semester. (photo by Cheryl Ertelt) ment. The men who went to war can use programs set up by the Veterans Ad­
ministration qr the privately sponsored Disabled American Veterans. 
Ms. Williams' two-year-old ses­
{)I?.EN 

AIIJ[)IIlrll{)NS II 
sions, where groups of six to 12 women could discuss their problems, were among the first in the nation for veterans' wives. She was the first psychologist to publish a guide for other professionals who wanted to begin work in the field,


Fll1Eb ElF ANEiEb5i 
according to DAVoutreach program director Bob Lenham. Her pioneering efforts laid the

ORAZIL FADO 
groundwork for the creation of other programs in DAV centers across the nation, Lenham said. 

PRO GAME: ; AD\IANCE:S 
Her husband Tom became active in an early Vietnam veterans' Thurs., January 14, 1981 program that was started in Denver by the DAY in 1979. In the begin­
at 7=00 pm ning, she kept her distance. "I backed away from getting in­
0' Laughlin Auditorium 
volved at first, because I didn't want Fri., January 15, 1981 to set up a ladies' auxiliary, and I didn't want to do something aimedat 7=00 pm only at helping the men get better," said Ms. Williams. "I changed my
Washington Hall 
mind when I saw there were a lot of people who were really hurting, and 


1: 
I 
r. 
i' 
{ 




Confused 
~ 
.• 
I ~':I'I.....1...--,.. '
1
! o/f"t',_..,
• r .__.
..... 
• ..J· ·' ~­,_~, ~_.... :; 
~­

' 
F 
t 1 
join us this sunday for our cabaret brunch 
classical music provided by the elkhart sbing quartet 
for reservations call259-9925 
Heavy women may risk chance of diabetes 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Women 
who are overweight in their upper 
bodies face an increased risk of 
having undiagnosed diabetes and 
should be tested for the disease, are­
searcher said yesterday. 
A study at the Medical College of Wisconsin found that the location of fat in the body can help predict whether a woman has diabetes long before symptoms appear. 
Obese women with most of their fat located in the upper body -the waist, chest, neck and arms -are more likely to be diabetics than those with fat concentrated in lower body areas such as hips, thighs and buttocks, researchers found. 
Dr. Ahmed H. Kissebah said an upper-body obese woman has eight times greater risk of having clinical diabetes than a woman of normal weight. Those with lower body obesity showed little or no in­creased risk. 
Speaking at a Milwaukee news Iiams began to relive his war ex­periences. 
"The war invaded the fabric of veterans' lives their sleep, employment and all their relation­ships," causing loneliness, depres­sion and a refusal to accept responsibility, he said. 
"Women in some of my counsel­ing sessions say they feel they are ex­pected to give and give and give," said Ms. Williams. 
A veteran's wife must learn she need not be "wife, mother, nurse, lover and breadwinner," she said. "To be healthy, women have to get into learning what they want and what they need to be happy." 
For some women, that may re­quire leaving their husbands. 
briefing that was monitored by reporters throughout the country, Kissebah said the risk goes down with dieting and loss ofthe fat. 
"What is heartening is that it is relatively easy to identify those women at risk and to take early measures to reduce upper body seg­ment fat," he said. 
"This reduction lowers the risk of such metabolic disorders as diabetes, as well as high blood pressure and heart disease," he con­tinued. 
The researcher said about 40 per­cent of American women are overweight and of these women, 25 percent have upper body obesity. 
Kissebah said the findings should encourage doctors to make a more serious effort to persuade women to lose weight. 
Women with fat upper bodies also should ask their doctors to test them for diabetes so that treatment, which normally consists of weight control and special diets, can begin as soon as possible ., he said. Insulin injec­tions normally are prescribed only in extreme cases. · 
Diabetes is a condition that keeps the body from metabolizing sugars. Insulin, a hormone that helps the body use sugar, either is not produced in sufficient quantities or there is an inability to use the insulin that is produced. 
Some studies indicate that early diagnosis and treatment result in better long-term outcomes for patients, said Kissebah, director of the college's General Clinical Research Center, a special human studies unit funded by the National Institutes of Health. 
The association between upper body obesity and diabetes was first identified by French researchers in the 1970s. The relationship was con­firmed in 1980 by the Milwaukee researchers after studying 15,000 
obese  women  from  around  the  
country.  
To  examine  this  relationship  
more  closely,  the  researchers  

compared 52 women between the ages of 20 and 40 -25 with upper body obesity, 18with lower body fat and nine ofnormal weight who were used as a control group. 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods. The Observer 1s published by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Marys Col­lege. Subscnphons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wntlng The Observer. P 0. Box 0. Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. lncllana 46556. 

~ 
The Observer 
Polish government listens 


''Big Sister'' controls phones 
YOU 
CAN 




HAVE 
U.RELLA reward~ and growth that make up the ingredients for a bnght future. 
• Travelers representatives will be visiting your campus soon. For details, see your Placement Director or write to: Rubin I. Fisher, Assistant 
WARSAW, Poland (AP)-Big Sis­ter is warning telephone callers their conversations arc "being con­trolled" in martial law Poland these days. 
Since telephone service in Poland's major cities was n:storcd last Sunday, some numbers start a screechy-voiced woman chirping, "Rozmowa Kontrolowana, Roz­mowa Kontrolowana." 
In Polish that means "the call is being controlkd, the call is being controlled." 
The voice of Big Sistt:r changl'S, ~ometimcs high, sometimes a bit huskier. But the message is dear: anything said on the phone may be heard and thae should be no doubt about it. 
Big Sister -a variation on Big Brothl·r, the symbol of dictatorship 
in  (ieorgc  Orwell's "1984"  - is  
what  !(>reign  journalists  have  
dubbed the Polish voice.  

<>n the tirst day the tcll·phones l·ame hack after 29 days of sikncc, tlw intrusion was often inconsistl:nt. 
People testing the telephones, working for the tlrst time since just before midnight Dec. 13 when mar­tial law began, found that some num­bers triggered Big Sister, while others did not. 
Calls to the Roman Catholic Church press office were said to be under control by the voice, as were calls to some others who one could assume would be monitored. 
But it was unclear later ifthe voice was triggered by the person placing the call, or the phone number receiving it. 
Two days after the phones were back in order, every call from The Associated Press office phone brought the warning "the call is being controlled," two or three timcs. Then the voice stopped and the other party either did or did not pick up the phone. 
It was not the fact of the warning, but only the form it took that came as a surprise. 
In an annomKement that telephone Sl'n·;,.,. "'""'" ht· 

restored within the nation's big cities, the authorities said that the calls would be subject to control and could be cut at any time if whoever was listening deemed them damaging to the state. 
The communique also warned that telephone conversations could be subject to further checking and anti-state activity could be punished. 
Some people reported that calls were cut when such words as "internees" were used in conversa­tions about seized members of the now-suspended independent union Solidarity. 
But others said use of the word "Walesa," name of the now­sequestered chief of the indcpend­cnt union, and "Solidarity" did not trigger a cutoff. 
It is unlikely that every singlc call is monitored, but it is impossible to tell which arc or arc not and the ef. feet of thc woman's reminder is clear. 



... , 
NG 
THE 
Anyone who has ever wanted to work for an insurance company, and anyone who hasn't, should consider The Travelers. Because we offer careers both in insurance and in a vari­ety of other fields which help us service our wide range of financial products. 
Under The Travelers umbrella, you'll find careers in engineering, data processing, finance, marketing. And as an insurance industry leader, we offer rewarding careers in actuarial science, underwriting and sales. 
So if you're wondering who works for an insurance company, over 30,000 people from differing backgrounds are at work for The Travelers right now. They've chosen us because we have the resources, variety, benefits, 

Director, The Travelers, Dept. CA, One Tower Square, Hartford, CT 06115 
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F 
THE TRAVELERS 
----~--­

The Observer Thursday, January 14, 1982 -page 6 
Sony Tape and Sunshine Promotions Present an evening with .... 


RODSTE 
ART 
Le Grnnde Tour Americn nnd ·cnnndn 1981/1982 
WORTH LEAVING HOME FOR!!!! 

.r------~------------------------------------------------­
Sports Brie/§ 
Thursday,January 14, 1982-page 7 
Bv The Obsert•er and The Associated Press 
Irish hockey fortunes received a big boost over the holidays when Lefty Smith's squad won the prestigious Great Lakes 
Aaron, Robinson elected to Hall 
Invitational Tournament held annually in Detroit. By virtue of an impressive 6-2 victory over Michigan in the semi-final game, Notre Dame found itself pitted against Michigan Tech for the champion­
NEW YORK (AP)-Hank Aaron, ducted into the Hall of Fame at followed by relieface Hoyt Wilhelm ship before ESPN cameras and a record collegiate hockey crowd of 
baseball's all-time home run king, Cooperstown, N.Y., Aug. 1. with 236. 19,225 at the joe Louis Arena. The Irish took full advantage of the 
and Frank Robinson, the game's first Aaron's 406 votes represented the In addition to his home run opportunity by overcoming a 2-0 deficit and recording a 4-3 win 
black manager, were elected to the second highest vote total ever and record, Aaron had the most runs over their CCHA rivals. Full coverage of both games and a report on 
Hall of Fame yesterday in their first the second best election percent-batted in in baseball history, finish­last weekend's series with Chicago Circle will provided in tomor­
year ofeligibility. age. Only Willie Mays, with 409 ofa ing with 2,297. He also holds row's editions. -The Observer 
Aaron, who hammered 755 career possible 432 in 1979, received more records for the most games played home runs, shattering the record of votes. Only Ty Cobb, with a percent-( 3,298), at-bats ( 12,364), mostThe Student Union has announced that there are 
71 4 held by Babe Ruth, received age of98.2 in 19 36, had a higher per-years with I00 runs st.·ored ( I 5 ), ~ still eight openings remaining for the ski trip during Spring Break 
406 votes ofthe 41 5 cast by 10-year centage than Aaron's 97.8. Cobb well as many others. (March 13-19 ). To sign up, bring a $75.00 deposit to the Student 
members of the Baseball Writers As­missed being unanimous by only Currently vice president and Union ticket office hy this Monday, January 18. If you have already 
sociation ofAmerica. No player ever four ballots, receiving 222 of the director of player personnel for the signed up for this trip, please bring a second deposit of 550.00 to the 
has been a unanimous choice to the 226 cast in 1936, the first year ofthe Atlanta Braves, Aaron was not at the ticket office hy Monday. -The Observer 
Hall. Hall of Fame vote. announcement made by the Robinson, the only man to win the Close behind Aaron and Robinson BBWAA. He was expected in NewEvery Saturday night, the Student Union will spon­
Most Valuable Player Award in both were former San Francisco Giants' York late yesterday, delayed by ser a ski trip to Swiss Valley. Advance tickets can be purchased at the 
the National and American Leagues, pitcher juan Marichal, who missed travel problems in Atlanta. ticket office for $2. 50, or for $3.00 on the shuttle bus. The bus will 
and, like Aaron, one of baseball's election by only seven votes. He Robinson, currently the manager depart from the Main Circle at 5 p.m. every Saturday and return to 
most feared sluggers for two received 305 in his second year on of the Giants, hit 586 home runs in campus at II p.m. All arc invited to come and join the fun. -The 
decades, received 370 votes. A the ballot, 72 more than he got last his major league career and was 
Obsert•er 
player needed 312 for election, or year. But his percentage of 73.4 fell named Most Valuable Player in the 75 percent ofthe voting board. just short of the 75 percent re-NL in 1961 with Cincinnati and MVPThe women's crew club will hold an organizational 
Aaron and Robinson became the quired. in the AL with Baltimore in 1966. meeting on Sunday, January 17, at 7 p.m. in LaFortune. The meeting 
12th and 13th members to win elec­No other candidate came close, a!-When he was named manager of is mandatory for all those interested in rowing this spring. New 
tion to the Hall of Fame in their first though several made important the Cleveland Indians in 1975, he memhers arc also welcome to attend. -The Observer 
year on the ballot. Both retired gains in the vote. became the first member of his race following the 1975 season. Fourth in the balloting was slug-to be put in charge ofa major leagueSoccer team winter workouts will begin on Sunday, 
Aaron and Robinson will be in-ger Harmon Killebrew with 246, team. January 17 in the ACC Pit. A mandatory meeting for all 1982 soccer 
team candidates will be held prior to the first practice on Sunday, beginning at 9:30 a.m. in the Pit. All interested persons must attend the meeting and be dressed for practice, which will follow im­mediately after the meeting. -The Observer 
• Irish 

Wrestlers undefeated; 
•
UJtn triangular match 
By BRIAN REIMER Bruno admitted that the forfeits 
Sports Writer were very helpful. They served to 
offset a Notre Dame forfeit in the 

The Notre Dame Wrestling team heavyweight division. 
raised its won-loss record to 6-0 Over Christmas break, the 
with a convincing triangular sweep wrestlers participated in the tough­
last night at the ACC pit. The Irish est college-style wrestling tourna­
pounded Huntington College 38-6 ment in the country; the Midlands 
and whippt.·d Concordia 33-18 to Invitational. Because of its open for­
claim their second triangular win of mat, assistant coach Tihamer Toth­
the season. Fejel was able to wrestle at 142-lbs. 
"We wert· worried ahout this He placed second. The Irish 
meet because of the injuries we've defeated Carthage in a dual meet and 
had recently, just about everyone placed sixth as a team in the Olivet 
has something wrong with them," Tournament. Pete Agostino placed 
claimed Coach Brother Joseph second at 142-lbs and joe Andretti 
Bruno. 167-pounder Phil Baty suf­finished third at 118-lbs individual­
fc:red a stress fracture seven weeks ly. 
ago and may wrestle in two weeks. The Notre Dame wrestlers will 
The other injuries are not as bad. face Wabash and Millikin on the road 
Brian Erard was the lone pin win­this Saturday. The Irish return home 
ner against Concordia as he pinned next Thursday to face Bowling 
John Partipilo in thirty-seven Green and Detlance in a triangular at 
seconds at I58 pounds. Karl the Pit, starting at 7:00. The Bowling 
Dahlhauser ( 177-lbs) claimed the Green Falcons are a traditional Mid 
lone pin in the Huntington match. American Conference power and 
The Irish benefitted from three wins they pose a threat to Notre Dame's by forfeits in both matches. Coach undefeated record. 
continuedfrom page 10 
we just happen to have a little more 
talent than they do." 
Four Irish players reached double 
figures in the contest. In addition to 
Schueth, Ruth Kaiser, playing in 
front of a group of friends and 
relatives that out-numbered the St. 
Francis rooters in the small crowd, 
scored nine first-half points and 
finished with 13. Kaiser is a former 
resident ofChatsworth, Ill. 
Bates and Laura Dougherty each 
scored a dozen. Dougherty was par­
ticularly instrumental in leading the 
Irish back into the game. She hit five 
;traight second-half shots, all from 
the 16-18 foot range, after entering 
the game at the 14:19 mark. In­
cluded in the streak was a 16-foot 
jumperfrom straight away that came 
after a nice head-and-shoulder fake. 
IRISH ITEMS -Turnovers were one ofthe ihings that displeased DiS­tanislao ...Her team committed 31 in the con t test, 13 of which were traveling violations ....The Irish were a dismal 5 of 1 1 from the free throw line, but did hit 61 percent from the floor, connecting on 28 of 46 shots ...Chris Pricboy, the Saint's leading scorer, was shut 
down in the second half. She scored only three points after tallying I 7 in the first half on a variety of shots, including one prayer -a running jump-hook from five feet away on the baseline ...Last night's game marked the return to uniform of sophomore guard jenny Klauke.... Klauke did not play, but will begin scrimmaging with her teammates today and should see action Satur­day against SMU. 

, , , DiStanislao 
continuedfrom page 10 
our program," DiStanislao said. "We defeated a team with an established program." 

In order to capture the title ofthe Dial Classic, Notre Dame had to defeat Creighton and Marquette. The Irish overcame a slow start to defeat Creighton in the opener, 69­
48. The Irish shot 53 percent from he field, while the Bluejays shot only 35 percent. Kaiser led all scorers with 14 points. Schueth added 1 3 points and freshman guard Laura Dougherty tallied 11. 
Marquette had defeated Notre Dame twice in a row, including a 21­point victory a~ the ACC in 191::10. But excellent team defense and good rebounding enabled the Irish to triumph this time, taking a 50-36 decision. Freshman guard Laura Dougherty led the Irish with 1 5 points. Tile Irish shot 74 percent ( 14 of 19) from the free throw line and allowed the Warriors to go to the line only twice in the contest. Schueth, who scored 24 points and grabbed 1'i rebounds during the tournament, was named the Most Valuable Player. Kaiser was named to the all-tournament team. 
"We learned some valuable les­sons during the trip," she said. "We definitely need to concentrate more on playing to our own potential and not the level of our opponents. We should have won a few games by lar­ger margins. But overall, we played very well." 

Classifieds  
HOUSE FOR RENT. GIRLS ONLY. 5 BEDROOMS. ONE BLOCK FROMFOR RENT MEMORIAL HOSPITAL & BUS STOP. CHARACTER. FURNISHED CALL BY FOR SALE ] SUNDAY. 1/17 IF INTERESTED 233· 9947 FOR RENT Individual or group·· comfortable house close lo campus. bus $500 per semester share ol ultlilles Call FOR SALE ND wool & leather 1ac~e1. 288·3942 aher 5:30pm SIZe: large. Never been worn. $50.00. Call 272-9770 HOUSE FOR RENT EDISON PARK. 2 MILES EAST OF CAMPUS 234-6302 WANTED FOR RENT UGLY DUCKLING RENT A BOOKS FOR SALE: CAR $1 0 A DAY WITH 50 FREE MILES. COURSES. PHONE 259-8459 FOR AESEAVA· ECON 115. GEOLOGY(EASC 1 02). IN· TIONS TAO TO MUSIC ­220D TUTOR -to leach weekend classes BOOKS NEEDED: Share turn~shed house w/2 grads. prepanng tor Med1cal College Adm1ss1ons COURSES: 100/mo 1/3utll. 287-0356 Tesl. Requires m-depth knowledge ol GOV'T 341 -INT'L AELA TIONS. GOVT College B1ology. Chem1s1ry and Phys1cs. 342-COMPARATIVE GOVT. ENG 386 STUDENT HOUSING -FULLY FUR· leaching expenence a plus. Graduate or -MAJOR AMERICAN WAITERS II. NISHED. CLEAN. $AFE. WASHER PhD sludenl 1n sc1ence preferred. Call ACCOUNTING 261 -BASIC DRYER. RATED SUPERIOR $100/MO 232-2366. CALL CHRIS AT 1678 ANYTIME. TOTAL 291-1405 MARKETING COORDINATORS 82-83. 4 BDAM HSE. CLOSE TO NEEDED. Pan 11me pos1!1on Involves TYPEWRITERS FOR SALE: SMITH CAMPUS EXCEL CONDITION. marketmg and promollng h1gh quality CORONA MANUAL. $30. OLYMPIA FURNITURE. CALL GREG CRESS. 287­Spnng Break beach tnps on campus. ELECTRIC. $150. IBM SELECTRIC I. 5361 AFTER 6 PM OR CHECK HSE OFF Earn commiSSIOn plus free !raveL Call $275. DITTO MACHINE. $40. ALL IN LIST Summrt Tours. Phone: 1 (BOO) 325-0439 MINT CONDITION 684-2822.  STEREO EQUIPMENT TAPE DECKS. SPEAKERS. EVERYTHING AT ROCK BOTTOM PRICES FOR STUDENTS ON· L Y BOSE. HK. NIKKO. JVC -MANY MORE! CALL JB AT 8228 or 8232. FIND OUT HOW NICE A STEREO CAN SOUND! PERSONALS lon~ghfs lypeseller has nolh1ng to do w1!h the w1erd short personals lhal appear hence·· THIS PROGRAM IS NOT DEAD YETI II HI MOO Help me. I'm me1!1ng! Are you there? John Macor for UMOC I've heard !hal Mary O'Brien dnnks l1ke a fish. l!h1nk she's more like a rabbi!  Obsowerites -Welcome back!! I hope all of your breaks were enjoyable. As we beg1n another semester. lry to keep these things 1n mmd Ort-Duncan H1nes. so mo1stlully good you always come back lor more Bruce ­Keep my copy editors 1n hne lor me, OK? II there s any problem -brand ·em Rachal ­Do I get the lnnge benel1ls that Ortle got? Dave-Keep us1ng your head Chris N.-My doors metal. K1ck away Cheryl -What a developmentllpassed Photo I! Monica-You look hke HELL Shirley-U. C. L A. UCLA Aah Aah Aah Kelly-Call me anyt1me you have syrup to gel ndol Dlene -Are you sure you want to gel m1xed up w1th us? Quard -ITEM Three Flonda valets killed 1n orange explos1on Lefty -How 'boul yourself? Frankle-Th1s XJCJ( knows w1nter IS here Prod-You look like HELL. 100 Michelle -Hoi chocolate and schnapps?? Call anyt1me To all others whom 11me and space w111 necessanly exclude: Have a great semester. and remember ­I need all the help I can gel. SKIP  Mothers h1de your children I Aher years ol roam1ng the Yukon. Ryan Ver Berkmoes has returned to that 1ndustnal tundra known as South Bend Happy now. Maclennan?! You PEEPII please. 1n all further abuse ollhe c~rcula· lion manager. make sure to d1Herent1a1e between h1s younger brother and htm. Jim 1s no! a peep !hank you the typesenor, ~>flo knows JM to be a nne upstancfns young man. Welcome back. Observer PEEPS Ill WELCOME BACK. YOU PEEPS! HELLO Welcome back. Hope you all had a good holiday season The System ALL URBAN PLUNGE AS-REFLECTION PAPERS DUE BY 4:00 PM FRIDAY. JANUARY 15. BAING ORIGINAL AND ONE COPY TO CENTER FOR EX­PERIENTIAL LEARNING. ROOM 1110. MEMORIAL LIBRARY  

~-------­
The Observer-Sports 
• • • Faust 

continuedfrom page 12 Higgins will remain on the offensive line, but will take over Backhus' job with the tackles and ends.
coordmawr for the Irish JV teams as No replacement has been an­
a graduate assistant under Ara Par­nounced for Higgins' spot, though
seghian. He worked with defensive there have been reports that Larry
backs as an assitant at Tulane Univer­Vander Heyden, a three-year of­
sity prior to joining Faust's staff. 
fensive line coach with the National 
Champion Clemson Tigers, turned 
down an offer to coach in the same
'I was very impressed capacity at Notre Dame. "I'm not going, but the only reason I turned it down is that if
with Coach Faust 
you're happy where you are, there's no reason to move," Vander Haydenand Notre Dame ... ' told The Times of Hammond, Ind., 
this week 

"I was very impressed with Coach Another change involves former Faust and very impressed with Notre center-guard coach Jim Higgins. Dame. I think it's the pinnacle ofcol-

Your budding 
~ careercan ~blos~mas 1 an Air Rlrce ~~\ nurse 
As a Registered Nurse graduated from an NLN accredited school, you can enter an exciting nursing career with benefits that include 30 days paid vacation a year. Medical and dental care provided. Professional challenges and per· sonal satisfaction will bring your nursing career into full bloom as an Air Force Nurse. 
lege coaching." 
· "But things are going well here. We have a youngster that's a fresh­man here at Clemson, and we just didn't want to disrupt the family situation now." 
• • • Lost 
continuedfrom page 12 
best player, put on a show. 
In front of nearly 18,000 at the Capital Centre, the largest crowd to see either team all year, the 7-4 cen­ter scored 17 points, grabbed 14 rebounds, and blocked four shots. He did it all while playing just 27 mmute:>. 
And again, the Irish lost. 
This week, the Irish decided to revamp their show. Things obvious­ly weren't working out, and a change was mandatory. 
So they watched South Carolina take San Francisco to overtime. Then, in the best Milton Berle tradi­tion, they stole all the good punchlines. 
Tough defensive work held Quin­tin Dailey to 13 points, and forced 7-1 center W.allace Bryant to play outside. 
Tim Andree was the latest of Notre Dame's revolving stars. He played one of the best games of his career. 
But in the end, the Irish lost. 
Phelps, as always, was hopeful as the trip came to an end. With a little fine tuning, he thought, he might be able to keep the show from closing. 

So Phelps will try to change the script. Already, he's had a comedy, a tragedy and an adventure story. 
Now he wants a winner. 



oafather's Pizza® 

DELIVERING to NOTRE DAME and SAINT MARY'S 
Order the EXPRESS DELIVERY: 
Medium -pepperoni 
-sausage Or combo 
and receive. quicker service 
Driver has fresh pizza for sale on truck. 
HOURS: ffion-Thuts Qnd SundQy 
5Pffi -10:30Ptn Fti. Qnd SQt. 5Pm -12:30Am 
The Observer -Sports 
Kentucky is upset by Ole Miss 
'Cats lose again 
OXfORD, Miss. (AP) -junior forward Carlos Clark scored 23 points last night 10 spark Mississippi lO a 67-6'; upset over No. 6 Ken­tucky in a Southeastern Conference basketball game. 
Ole Miss never trailed in the game, which finally was decided in th1: final minute on two free throws by Eric Laird. 
Mississippi stretched its first-hall· lt:ad to 25-12 on two free throws by Scan Tuohy, and the Rebels led 34­23 at the half. 
Kentucky'sjim Master cut the Ole ' Miss lead to 36-30 early in tht· second half with a short jumper, but Mississippi pulled out to a 13-point margin with a field goal from Clark, th1: SEC's second-highest scorer with a 20.4 average. 
Th~: victory gave Ole Miss a 7-6 record overall and a 2-3 SEC mark, and Kentucky dropp1:d to 9-3 and 2­2. 
Floyd saves Hoyas 
SOUTH ORANGE, N.j. (AP) -Erk Floyd sank a jump shot with ';8 seconds ldt 10 play to lead George­town to a 62-60 victory over Seton Hall in Big East Conference action last night. 
Georgetown had a halftime edge of 29-26 after the lead see-sawed back and forth during the first half. 
Seton Hall took a 34-29 lead early in thl· second half on a pair of free throws by Dan Callandrillo. The score wa..o; tied five more times until Callandrillo sank a layup to give Seton flail a 54-481cad with 6:24Icft to play. 
A jumper by Hoyd and four free throws by Pat Ewing gave the Hoya..o; a 60-58 advantage with 2:06 remain­ing. Callandrillo tied it with a jum­pl'f, but Floyd sank another jump shot to boost Georgetown to 62-60. 
Callandrillo's last-second shot bounced off the rim at the buzzer. 
Callandrillo lead all scorers with 23 points. Hoyd had 19 for George­town, and Ewing added I 4 points and nine rebounds. 
The victory boosted Georgetown to 14-2 overall and 3-0 in the Big East, and dropped seton Hall to 9-3 ovl·rall and 1-2 in the conference. 
Tigers stay unbeaten 
COLUMBIA, Mo. (AP) -Senior forward Ricky Frazier scored I 5 points, including four on key layups late in the game, as No. 2 Missouri defeated Oklahoma State, 54-49, in Big Eight Conference action last night. 
The victory improved the Tigers' record to 12-0 overall and 2-0 in the Big Eight. Oklahoma State is 8-5 and 0-1. 
After trailing at the half, 32-27, the Cowboys came back with balanced scoring to tie the game at 40 with 
14:06 left. Frazier then scored on two layups to give the Tigers a 46-42 lead. 
Oklahoma State guard Matt Clark hit a three-point play to pull the Cowboys within 52-49 with 1:52 left. But Missouri forward Marvin McCrary hit two foul shots with a 
minute left to ice the game. 
Demons .rout Cocks 
CHICAGO (AP)-Forwards Ter­ry Cummings and Bernard Randolph poured in 19 points each last night to lift No.4 DePaul to a 92-59 rout of South Carolina. 
The Blue Demons, 14-1, ripped through South Carolina's defense in the first half, picking up 11 steals while the Gamecocks committed 16 turnovers. The Gamecocks, 4-9, were outscored 31-10 in a 10:54 span as DePaul built a 72-37 ad­vantage. During that spree, Ran­dolph scored eight points and Cummings and Skip Dillard had six apiece. 
Kenny Holmes, one oftwo sopho­more forwards starting for South Carolina, led his team with 16 points. 

Haw keyes, Buckeyes 
hit the road tonight 
ByJOE MOOSHIL 
APSports Writer 
Iowa's fifth-ranked Hawkeyes and 
Ohio State's red-hot Buckeyes hit 
the road this week with high hopes 
of keeping intact their perfect Big 
Ten basketball records. 
Both teams were off to quick 
starts last week, each nailing a pair of 
victories to climb into a first-place 
tic in the conference race. 
"The reason we're successful at 
this point is we've had two games at 
home," said Iowa Coach Lute Olson. 
"We play four ofour ne_xt five games 
on the road." 
Iowa goes to Minnesota on . tonight in a battle of preseason 
favorites and then to Wisconsin 
Saturday while Ohio State journeys 
to Illinois on Thursday and con­
tinues on to Indiana Saturday. 
"We're not going to Minnesota 
fearful ofplaying in Williams Arena," 
said Olson. "We don't have a kid on 
this squad that has lost in Williams 
Arena" 
Iowa has won all three ofits games at Minnesota in the last three seasons but Olson doesn't want to put that much importance on tonight's game. 
"It's important, but if you don't 
look at the season as 18 games, you 
can get into trouble," he said. "Ifyou 
don't get too depressed by your 
losses or too elated by your wins and 
you give a good effort in each game, 
when the 18 games arc over you'll 
be on top." 
Ohio State Coach Eldon Miller wondered about his team being the early season surprise. 
"I don't know," said Miller. "All we're trying to do is have a little fun. What's surprising to a lot of people and to me is that our young back­court players are not looking like their age too much." 
Freshmen guards Troy Taylor and Ron Stokes have fit into the Buckeye pattern beautifully and at times Mil­ler has teamed them with Larry Hug­gins in employing a three-guard offense to go along with junior Clark Kellogg up front. 
"Kellogg is improving and he's better than a year ago," said Miller. 
"He rebounds well and he has made strides in other phases of the game. I wouldn't trade him for any other front line player." 




E.F. HUTTON & COMPANY INC Discusses 
Career Opportunities in the Securities Industry 
• 
Corporate Finance 

• 
Operations 

• 
Research 

• 
Sales 

• 
Trading 


And Other Areas of Specialization Within Hutton Will be Discussed on 
Thursday ·January 1 4, 11£'1,.; at 7 P.M. in 
The University Club, c.rp-per Lounge. 



The Observer-Sports 

Thursday,January 14, 1982-page 10 
Second half dominance 
Irish defeat St. Francis, 61-5 7 
By MARK HANNUKSELA 
Sports Writer 
JOLIET, Ill. -Mary DiStanislao 
must have had a lot to say to her 
women's basketball team at halftime 
of last night's game against the Col­
lege ofSt. Francis here. · 
The Irish coach kept her team in 

the lockerroom for more than 16 
and one-half minutes of the 20­. minute period. The team that finally emerged was different from the one that ended the first half eight points behind. 
Notre Dame limited St. Francis to 

just 23 second-half points and put 
together a pair of offensive spurls 
that carried them to a 61-57 win. 
It was the second of those two spurts that gave the Irish control of the game. Down 50-42 with just over eight minutes left, the Irish went on a 19-7 tear and finally took the lead on Mary Beth Schueth's double-clutch jumperwith 3:10 left. 
Almost two minutes later, Schueth scored again, this time from just right of the lane, after taking a pretty lob feed from junior guard Debbi Hensley. St Francis was able to close the gap to one, 58-57, with 0:59left, but a free throw by Schueth and two more by freshman Carrie Bates iced Notre Dame's fourth straight win and eigth ofthe season. 
The Irish, losers of only three, were led by Schueth in both the scoring and rebounding depart­ments. The Indianapolis native scored 11 second-half points, and finished with 17. She pulled down 10 rebounds, including three very big ones in the last three minutes. 
Despite the win, DiStanislao was not pleased with her team's overall performance. 
"I'm happy we had enough for­titude to pull it out down the stretch," she said, "but, other than that, I'm not happy at all. I wasn't happy with our post defense. We let them flash and post up and take it right to us." 
Women cagers play well during break 
By DAVE DZIEDZIC 
Sports Writer 
The championship of the Dial Classic and a victory over highly­regarded Missouri were the high-
NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION's 
ANNVAL 
SPRING BREAKIN DAYTONABEACH 
MARCH 12-21, 1982  SIX PER ROOM  
Arrangemmts by  (3 DOUBLE BEDS)  
ECHO TRAVEL, INC.  
MC152S71F  
FOUR PER ROOM  
(:! DOUBLE BEDS)  
'Guaranteed kitchenette  
or oceanfront available at  
small additional charge.  

OUR TRIPS AREALWAYS THE BESTDEAL AN1J THE BEST TIME The Plaza Hotel, located right in the middle ofthe strip, is definitely the place to be during spring break. Ask anyone who has been to Daytona. The hotel has a pool, big partydeck. restaurant, four bars, colorTV, air conditioned rooms and plentyofactivities. Pictures are availablewhere you sign up. Ourmotorcoachesare nothing butthe highest quality highway coaches. We also give you moreextraswith ourtrip thananyone else. Don't blowitandgo on a lower quality trip. · 
LAST YE.4R OVER 75 PEOPLEHAD THETIME OFTHEIRUFE ONTHIS TRIP. 
SIGN UP NOW AT mE TICKET OFFICE/RECORD STORE 
10 AM-4 PM, MON.-FRI. OR CALL :!83-3031 
TRIP INaUDES 
· Round trip motor coach transportation via modem highway coaches to Daytona Beach. Florida leaving Friday, March 12. arriving the following day. The return trip departs the following Saturday arriving home Sunday. 
· Seven nights accommodations at the beautiful and exciting Plaza Hotel of Daytona Beach. Located at 600 North Atlantic Ave. it is the most demanded hotel on the strip at that time. 
· A truly great schedule of activities including our famous pool deck parties and belly flop contest. · Optional excursions available to Disney World and several other attractions. · Numerous bar and restaurant discounts arranged in Daytona Beach for you. · The services of full time travel representatives to insure a trouble-free trip. · All taxes and gratuities. 
And that's exactly what St. Francis did in the first half -take it right to Notre Dame, using an effective transition game and full-coun pressure. The Lady Saints built a lead that reached ten points with less than two minutes left in the half. 
'"We were flat out-hustled in the first half," DiStanislao saiq. "With the exception of Butler (which scored 67 in a nine-point win over the Irish), that's the most points we've give!l up. We were guilty ofa lack of aggressiveness that caused us to do some really dumb things. 
"St. Francis deserved to win ­they played very well," she said. "We were able to win the game because 
See IRISH, page 7 

lights of Notre Dame's successful women's basketball campaign during semester vacation. 
"We played well over the Christmas holiday," said Irish Coach Mary DiStanislao. "Our freshmen hav¢.really adjusted well to college basketball. At times, we made some mistakes due to our inexperience, but for the most part, I've been pleased with our play." 
The Irish, who are now 8-3, began their road swing in Philadelphia at the Penn Tournament. In the opening round, freshmen Mary Beth Schueth and Carrie Bates led the way to a 62-47 victory over host Pennsylvania. Playing in Philadel­phia's Palestra, regarded as one of the most difficult sites in the nation for visiting tea~s. the Irish turned a slim three-point halftime lead into a big win. Schueth scored 17 points, while Bates scored 14. 
In the championship game of the Penn Tournament, Mount St. Mary's outscored Notre Dame by I 7 points in the second half en route to a 57­44 victory. Freshmen again led the Irish in scoring. Schueth, Bates, and Ruth Kaiser tallied I 0 points each. Schueth and Bates were selected to the all-tournament team. 
The Irish then travelled to Kansas City for a clash with the Tigers, who defeated UCLA earlier in the season. The Irish, who trailed by three points at halftime, outscored the Tigers by 10 in the second halffor a 60-53 victory. Irish assistant Coach Pat Knapp called the victory "our biggest win in two years. The girls really played well." 
Missouri led by as many as five points in the second half, but Notre Dame kept it close with aggressive play. A layup by junior forward Shari Matvey with 9:45 left to play gave the Irish the lead for good. Matvey scored 11 points, while the fresh­man trio of Bates, Schueth and Kaiser scored 12 each. Schueth grabbed 13 rebounds as the Irish out-rebounded the Tigers, 42-35. 
"This was a real big win for us and 
See DISTANISLAO, page 7 
Thursday Night at Lee's B.B.Q WELCOME BACK 
PARTY 
$3.00 All You Can Drink 
9 to 1 

The Observer 
T 0 da~========================T=h;::u=r=sd=a=y,=J=an=u=ary=1=4=,=19=8=2==p=ag=e=l~l
Molarity 

:J:'I-1 AFMIP 5H£ {:,OT 6TVGJ!, W45 5VPm7EPTO H~li£ i...bRRIEP ABWIC/IEI{YL, 
501-1£WHERE IN THI66ND&J B££1.1 H£1'$ AT6'-fiOOL 7}Jo PAY5 A4D .., 


.45 YW KNOW. SIR,~.®

GOSH, I'M 
J/JST fXXfSNT60AS Fill? AS

AWRJUY 5(}RJzy 
fT {J5tl) 7lJ. ~NAlLY, 1~

YOIJ'RE t.EAV!f-13 
/<Q/..LJNG 7D MIII<C 7HE SAC­
7HE TEAM, 
RiFice, 8UTIT'S J/JSTAm
51.ACJrM&YeR.. 
fll/R 7D MY FAMIL-Y.

\ / 
Simon 
Michael Molinelli 


BEStf?/3. 5/R, IT!> >ttR 
AFRAID SO,
~ 

GREATNEJAJ lAX !JflEAKS 
~ H&e,Hte.. SIR. >WilE 7HAT MAKe IT 50 I/?R£51S­TI8lE 7V GeT 8ACX IN?V A HIGH BRACXETl 
/ 


)eb Cashin 
~0 NO IT INIIS 'BL.I TZfN mD Hl:i sfECIALTY ~UAD' 
\ 

ACROSS 45 Cloak DOWN 30 Gentleman'& 
1 -Alto ~7 "-Alice" gentleman 
5 Exclude 48 Headquar· 31 Ryan or 10 Trim ters 1 Summon Tatum 14 Epithet 49 Abound 2 On the shel 32 Kill: sl. 
of Athena 52 Tooth edge tered side 34 Cloister 15 "Thais," 53 Current 3 Uris the 37 Arctic 
for one rage novelist dweller ·is Hindu music 56 One of 36A 4 Clod 38 Maugham 17 English 60 Ladd of 5 English story 
poet films county 39 Bancroft 20 Poetic time 61 Emulate 6 Fencing 45 Likesome 21 Functions Demosthenes weapons potatoes 

The Daily Crossword 

©1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
22 Encounters 62 Righthand 23 Iowa city man 24 Land's end 63 Saucy 26 Stripof 64 -upon 
beef (studied 29 Booted quickly) 30 Oath 65 Garden 33 Melville bloom, for 
title short 34 Levin's "-Before Dying" 35 Literary 
scraps 36 Work by 17A 40 Ripen 
41 Expensive 
fur 42 Undiluted 43 Celtic 
Neptune 44 Baltic port 
7 Tunisian 46 Vipers 
rulers 47 English 8 Rainbow river 9 Stadium 48 Steephlll 
shout 49 Trade 10 Vinegar 50 Trick 
bottle 51 In the dis· 11 Cluny, e.g. tance 12 "-a Kick 52 Actor James 
out of You" 53 Get poor 13 Averages marks 18 Sharp odor 54 Robert the 19 In the cen· actor 
terof 55 Legal paper 57 Watch chain 
23 "Thanks­58 Relative:24 British abbr.

division 59 Label

25 Bouquet 26 Klndof 
point 27 Likeness 28 Hermit 29 Cranium 

Campus 
•4 
p.m. -Seminar, "The Photochemistry of Transition Metal Phthalocynaines, Charge Transfer vs. ligand Centered Photochemistry in d6 Metal Complexes", Dr. G. Fcrraudi, Radiation Laboratory Conference Room, Sponsored by Radiation Laboatory 

•7 
p.m. -Auditions, ND/SMC auditions for spring season, No previous theatrical experience necessary, All ND/SMC students arc encouraged to attend, O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's Col­lege 

•7, 
9, 11 p.m. -Film, "Blazing Saddles", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Dancin' Irish, S 1 admission 

•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "A Critique ofUbcral Ans", Dr. Elizabeth Minnich, Dean, Union for Ex­perimenting Colleges and Universities, Carroll Hall, Sponsored by Teaching and Learning Com­mittee. 


Television 
7p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8p.m. 
8:30p.m. 
9p.m. 
9:30p.m. 
10p.m. 
10:30p.m. 11p.m. 
11:30p.m. 
12 a.m. 
12:30a.m. 

Tonight 
16  MASH  
22  CBS News  
28  Joker's Wild  
34  The MacNeil/Lehrer Report  
46  Rev. David Paul  
16  Allin The Family  
22  Family Feud  
28  Tic Tac Dough  
34  Straight Talk  
46  W. V.Grant  
16  Fame  
22  Magnum P.l.  
28  Mork and Mindy  
34  Sneak Previews  
46  Lester Sumrall Teaching  
28  Best ot the West  
34  This Old House:  
46  Pattern For Living  
16  Dift'rent Strokes  
22  Knots Landing  
28  Barney Mlller  
34  Austin City Limits  
46  Today with Lester Sumrall  
16  Gimme A Break  
28  Taxi  
16  Hill Str teet Blues  
22  Nurse:  
28  20/20  
34  Michigan Outdoors  
46  jack Van lmpe  
34  Kirk: American Furniture  
46  Faith For Today  
16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
34  The Dick Cavett Show  
46  Praise The Lord  
16  Tonight Show  
22  Quincy/The Saint  
28  ABC News Nightline  
34  Captioned ABC News  
28  Vegas  
46  Lester Sumrall Teaching  
16  Tomorrow Coast To Coast  
28  ABC News Nightllne  
46  Sharing  

.. 
,. 

BUT WHAT DOES THE STUDENT UNION RECORD STORE HAVE FOR ME? 

CHEAPER PRICES PRICES··· Save 24-32% off list prices! MOST CURRENT SINGLES-$6.50 (compare at $8.99 list). Cut-outs...$2.98 to $5.98 
CONVENIENCE...The NDSU Record Store is located on the Main floor of LaFortune and is open 10-4 PLUS-ordered albums take l week only! 
GREAT SELECTION ...Springsteen, Fogelberg, Moody Blues, Stevie Nicks, Cristopher Cross, Pat Benatar, journey, and many more. 
ALSO ... recorded and blank tapes available. 
SO... for CHEAPER PRICES, MORE CONVENIENCE, and a GREAT SELECTION 

stop by the S.U. Record Store today'!! 
0

0 0 0 0 a a 
~-----------------~~ 

Irish look good but lose to USF 
By SKIP DESJARDIN 
Sports Editor 
OAKLAND, Calif. -Rumor had it that a sign had been hung over the -.door to the Oakland-Alameda 
County Coliseum. "Abandon hope all ye who enter here," it supposedly said. 
After all, Notre Dame had never won here. Moreover. the 2-8 Irish were going up against the nation's No. 7team. 
Apparently, however, Tim Andree and the Irish came in the back entrance Tuesday night and missed the sign. They played by far their best game of the season, and nearly beat the San Francisco Dons. 
"We grew up tonight," said Digger Phelps after the 57-55 loss. "We have to play with the best teams in the country for 40 minutes. Now we know we can. 
The Irish played better than they 
had all season, and Andree led the charge. 
He scored 14 points, pulled down seven rebounds, blocked two shots and stymied the Dons' seven-foot center, Wallace Bryant. 
"Tim played the best he has all year," said Phelps "The whole team did just what they had to do to win." 
In the end, it was Notre Dame's old nemesis, foul shooting, that did the team in. John Paxson missed the front end of a one-and-one with the score tied at 53 and just 48 seconds left on the clock. The Dons came up with the rebound, worked for a good shot, and got it. 
Bryant's five-footer was followed 
by a Ken McAlister steal, and 
Bryant's two foul shots put the game 
out of reach. 
"I wouldn't change anything 
about the end of the game," Phelps 
said. "John is the man we want at the 
line in that situation. It doesn't 
bother me that he missed. He did 

ND may lose Sluby to the school books 
Notre Dame Assistant Sports Information Director John Heis­ler yesterday refused to com­ment on reports that Irish sophomore forward Tom Sluby had been declared academically ineligible and would not be per­mitted to play for the remainder ofthe 1981-82 basketball season. But other University officials have indicated that the reports indeed are accurate. 
The reports first surfaced on the Metrosports telecast of the Notre Dame-San Francisco game on Tuesday night, and were reiterated on several television news programs last night. 
Heisler did say that, if an an­nouncement on the subject is forthcoming, it would come either today or tomorrow, but he refused to elaborate. 
Ifthe reports are accurate, that would leave Digger Phelps with only seven healthy scholarship players on the squad: Mike Mitchell, John Paxson, Bill Var­ner, Tim Andree, Barry Spencer, Cecil Rucker and Ron Rowan. Freshman guard Dan Duff suf­fered an ankle injury against Vir­ginia, and is out of the lineup indefinitely. 
The team returned to South Bend late last night from the West Coast, and Sluby and the coaching staff were unavailable for comment. 
-The Observer 

Backhus, Meyers fired; _Faust makes changes 
By KELLY SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
lit As expected, Notre Dame Head Coach Gerry· Faust made several changes in his staff over the holidays, including the firing of two coaches. 
Offensive line coach Tom Back­bus and defensive line coach Bill Meyers were informed several days after Christmas that they would not be retained as Notre Dame assis­tants. 
Backhus, who admitted to being "deeply disappointed" by the deci­sion, was Faust's first high school All­American as ·a player at Moeller. Responsible for the tackles and ends last fall, he was offensive coor­dinator at Air Force in 1980 before coming to Notre Dame. 
Backhus expressed the desire to remain in coaching if possible. 
• Meyers, who was unavailable for comment, had completed three seasons as an assistant at Notre Dame. A standout lineman on the Stanford University Rose Bowl teams, Meyers worked with the of­fensive line for two years under Dan Devine before Faust moved him over to the defense. He primarily coached the tackles. In addition, Faust announced that quarterback-receiver coach Tom Lichtenberg, running back coach Greg Blache and line ooachjim Hig­gins would assume new duties on his staff. 
Lichtenberg, who also serves as 
offensive coordinator for the Irish, will now become the backfield coach. Faust said he wished to retain Lichtenberg as-his coordinator on offense, but felt it was in the team's best interests to relieve him of the tremendous responsibilites of coaching the quarterbacks. He has already named a replacement for that position. 
Ron Hudson, a former backfield coach at UCLA, will work with the quarterbacks and receivers begin­ning this spring. Hudson coached at Oregon and Stanford, under San Francisco 49er coach Bill Walsh, before his stint with Terry Donohue and the UCLA Bruins. Faust said that the addition of Hudson, 36, "comes to us highly recommended by a number of head coaches, including Bill Walsh. It also enables us to give more individual attention to each phase of the offense." 

In talking with other head coaches, Faust said it became ap­parent that giving one man the chores of being both offensive coor­dinator and quarterback coach, as he had done with Lichtenberg, was too much ofa burden. With the changes, Faust hopes each will have more time to devote to the two positions. 
Blache, who coached the Irish backfield this season, will take Meyers' job on the defensive line. A former defensive back for Notre Dame in 1967, Blache was defensive 
See FAUST, page 8 
what he had to do for us all night." 
Paxson's biggest contribution came on defense. He held Quintin Dailey to just 13 points, less than half his average. 
The Irish used a sagging zone defense to trap Dailey whenever he got the ball. In addition, Andree, Tom Sluby and Bill Varner combined to force Bryant to shoot from outside the foul lane. 
The Irish took a lesson from last Saturday's nationally-televised game between the Dons and South Carolina. They saw the Gamecocks outhustle their opponents, and saw 
how effective  double·  and  triple­ 
team  defenses  could  be  against  
Dailey.  

"South Carolina taught us how to beat these guys," commented for­ward Gary Grassey. 
Phelps, despite the loss, was hap­pier than he's been in any post-game press conference all t year. 
"These guys really proved a lot to me tonight," he said. "We stayed with one of the best teams in the country for 40 minutes. A struggling team needs that. 
"We played with composure. These guys never lost their cool. Psychologically, this game was as good as a win for us." 
Now the Irish return home. They'll look at the lessons they learned on the road, and try to apply those lessons to the 16 games still to come. 
"Hey," saad Phelps, "we've still got a shot at the NIT." 

Thursday,January 14, 1982 -page 12 

Irish forward-Tom Sluby (33) scores two points in ND's 92-70 loss to Missouri onJan. 2. For more on the team's -and Sluby's ­troubles, see stories this page. (photo by Rachel Blount) 
Glad to be home 

Road life disagrees with cagers 
By SKIP DESJARDIN 
Sports Edttor 
In· years past, they were man­
datory stops on the vaudeville cir­
cuit. 
Kansas City. Washington. A show 
every couple ofnights. Philadelphia 
Louisville. A few pratfalls and lots of 
laughs. 
Unfortunately, vaudeville is dead. 
Over Christmas break, while most students were at home shovelling snow and eating Mom's lasagna, the Notre Dame basketball team went on a cross-country tour. 
In city after city, from coast to coast, the show went on. Every night the act was a little different but the outcome never changed. 
Against Kentucky, Digger Phelps had a surprise. He devised a stall that held the Wildcats at bay for a full 40 minutes. 
Joe B. Hall was content to sit back in a zone defense and let the clock tick away. It was almost a fatal mistake. Officials missed an obvious double dribble by Dirk Minniefield, allowing Kentucky to take the game into overtime and eventually win, 34-28. 
John Paxson ran the delay game and scored almost half of Notre Dame's points. 
But the Irish lost. 
Against Missouri, they came up with 70 points, enough to have won or tied five of their nine losses this season. 

Again, Paxson was the driving force. He scored 21 points, while holding Jon Sunvold, Missouri's star guard, to just six. He also dished out a game-high six assists. 
But the Tigers hit 72 percent of their field goal attempts and 92 per­cent of their foul shots, setting school records in a 92-70 win. 
And the Irish lost. 

Back east, in Philadelphia, there was a new star. Paxson had an off night, scoring just five points. So Bar­ry Spencer, who had not played in the two previous games, came up with the best game of his career. Tom Sluby also played his best game for Notre Dame the same night, as the two sophomores scored 18 and 13 points respectively. 
But Notre Dame couldn't buy a free throw, hitting less than 44 per­cent from the line. Starters Paxson, Tim Andree and Mike Mitchell came up with just nine points between them. On the way to a 66-61 victory, LaSalle's freshman sensation, Steve Black, picked up 20 points on 8-for­13 shooting. 
And the Irish lost. 

The Virginia Cavaliers had been the No. I team in the country and were riding a 28-game winning streak when Notre Dame upset them last year in Chicago. They were looking for revenge, and they got it. 
Ralph Sampson and company overwhelmed the Irish. Every Vir­ginia player on the roster scored at least two points, and four players scored in double figures as Virginia coasted to an 87-54 win. 
Not since Indiana and UCLA handed Phelps' first team back-to­hack defeats by 65 and 58 points, respectively, had the Irish been humiliated in such a fashion. 
Paxson got 21 points of his own, but Sampson, college basketball's 
See LOST, page 8 

Devine lands job as booster club prez 
Former Notre Dame Head Coach Dan Devine, who resigned after the 1980 season, finally has found a new job. 
After dabbling in various pur­suits for the past year, and also being rumored for several vacant head coaching positions, Devine yesterday accepted the, presidency of the Arizona State University "Sun Angels," a boos­ter group that is unaffiliated with the university..ASU officials made the announcement at a press con­ference yesterday. 
Devine, 57, has kept himself busy, most recently as an adviser for the new domed stadium in Minneapolis, but he has all but divorced himself from the Notre Dame football program although he has kept in touch with many of his former players. In recent weeks, Devine has been rumored for several head coaching posi­
tions, including the NFL's New 
England Patriots and also a 
Canadian Football League job. 
He also remains the most men­tioned candidate for the coach and general manager positions for a possible NFL franchise in In­dianapolis, if and when the op­portunity arises. 


In accepting the ASU position, Devine returns to the school where he began his illustrious collegiate coaching career in 1955. He coached at ASU for three years and compiled a 27-3­1 record before moving on to head coaching jobs at Missouri, the Green Bay Packers, and final­ly Notre Dame. 




