
liberalarts-Page 7
I I I 

VOL XVI, NO. 129 THURSDAY, APRIL 15, 1982
the il1dt'pendent srudent newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
Argentinareceives Haig's new proposals 
WASIIIN<;ToN (AP) St·t-retary siblc and ddi:nsiblc adjustmt·nts." uf Stall' Akxander ,\1. llait: Jr. said Haig said that as a result of his yt·sterday ht· ha!'> developed new conversations in London, plus propo~ab li>r an:rting war hetwt·en telephone cc;mversations on Wed­<•rt·at Britain and Argentinot and will nesday, he has devdoped "new t·an·y them to kaJer!'> in Buenos ideas which I have described to the Aire~ on todav. Argentine governmt•nt. 
llaig !'>pokt; tu reporters hours at: "Based on these new ideas, the Ar­tt:r l'n·sident Heagan said the Soviet gc.:illinians have invited me to return I Inion evidt·ntly is pro\·iding .to Buenos Aires. I propose to do so military intelligelll't' 10 Argt·ntina in tomorrow (today)." the Falkland !!'>lands cri!'>b and, in llaig, who planned an H a.m. EST blunt tt·rms, told tht· Kremlin to departure today, again sought to "butt out." portray the United States as attempt­
llaig c.:allt-d the l'alldands dispute ing to steer a middle course in the "t·xn·ptionally diflkult and excep­c.:onllic.:t, apparently in response to tionally tlangt·rous" hm said he had ~peculation the administration is til­rt't'l'iVl'll assurancc.:s from the ting toward (jreat Britain. Though leaders of both c.:ountrit:s Wednes­puhlidy praising Haig's peacekeep­day they are prt·paredto continue to ing effort, British officials have work with him toward a peacdul privately expressed annoyance that solution. the administration is not more firm­
llaig's annmmtTmt:nt came on ly in their corner. 
Professional demographer Dr. Linda Hudgins ad· populationproblem. See story below. (pboto by Tonia
the ht·ds ofan Argentine coa~t guard The United States is providing 
dresses a group in O'Sbaugbnessy Hall on tbe world Hap)
statement that two of its gunboats Grt.•at Britain at.·cess to military had brokt·n tht· British blockade of facilities on Ascension Island under the Falklands and were patrolling a 196.2 agreement between the two the shores of the archipelago. countries. The island is Britain's 
Operation only hope 
Capt. Victor lladini told The As­closest land supply point to the sociated Press in Buenos Aires that Falklands. the two ve:-.sds, each carrying a Haig said the United States has crew of ,30, ('cosset! from the main­viewed its role from the outset as 


Collectionfor Perruccio begins 
land to the islands on Tuesday. It was that ofassisting the two sides in find­the t1rst word of Argentine naval ac­ing a peaceful solution. By BOB VONDERHEIDE tion. The response, says one friend, Monday after the U.S. Air Force tivity in the blockade zone imposed Haig's appearance came as a Associate News Editor has been exceptional. agreed to provide free transporta­hy Britain before dawn Monday. surprise because, only a few hours The Hall Presidents Council tion. 
llaig said a solution "will require earlier, Reagan had said the Tom Perruccio was on top of the agreed Tuesday night to organize a One friend said that raising the· flexibility on both sides -not aban­Falklands issue was too sensitive for world four years ago. He was a campus-wide collection for the for­money is crucial since the hospital donment ofprinciple-hut respon-public comment. strong, healthy 21-year-old Notre mer Howard Hall resident. HPC will only continue care as long as the Dame sophomore studying govern­members will take special contribu­money lasts. He hopes the Notre ment and preparing for a career in tions at their dorm Masses this Sun­Dame community will respond in law. day and Campus Ministry will hold the same generous way it con­

Hudgins unconvinced 
But in late 1978, he contracted an collections at the Sacred Heart tributed to the Landon Turner Fund. upper respiratory infection, a com­Masses. At least three dorms have al­Although the operation will cause mon cold that turned critical leaving ready donated money from their hall severe financial hardship, Mr. Per.

about overpopulation 
his heart barely functional. Perruc­treasuries. ruccio said the family decided to go cio's only hope is a heart transplant, Collections also will be held at the ahead with the operation anyhow.
By MARY ANN P01TER 

how to provide for the increasing an operation with a limited record of dining halls Sunday and Monday "As my son, Matt (presently a ND
News Staff 

number of people." Economic success carrying no guarantee for nights. sophomore), told Tommy, 'You development seems to be the best complete recovery. Despite the danger involved in have to eith,er walk or run throughWith the birth rate increasing and alternative. Hudgins stated, "The Some of Perruccio's friends here the procedure, his family decided to life. You can't go on hopping,"' thethe death rate decreasing, the total population is outpacing many at Notre Dame have started raising arrange for the operation at the Uni­father told the Hartford Courant.
population is definitely nsmg. 

countries' ability to provide for the money from the University com­versity ofArizona in Tucson. Perruc­
However, Professor Unda Hudgins, "If they said he could live five
people." munity in order to pay for the opera-cio and his parents flew there
in her lecture last night maintained, years and really live, I'd rather raise "I'm not convinced that there are the money and let him live," he said. too many people in the world; the His father said that the cost of the 
problem is in the distribution." transplant is unknown, and in­
Student 'lawyers' 
Hudgins lectured last night on the surance will cover only three 
question of the population explo­months of the six expected months sion itself, the historical persective 


Criminalclinic boasts victories 
of hospitalization. of the population change, and the 
After Perruccio was stricken in demographic perspective. By STEPHEN C. SMITH "The students here are very good. They spend much 1978, he was bedridden for nearly Hudgins explained that in her Associated Press Writer 
more time, typically, on their cases than other lawyers two years and had to withdraw from traveling she has seen vast areas of might.'' school. He finally recovered enough open unused land. This land could In the paper-strewn offices ofone ofConnecticut's Assisted by student Monica Floryan, who worked for to return to Notre Dame and be used, she feels, to locate people most successful criminal law firms, few ofthe "lawyers" more than a year on legal briefs and arguments, Sheldon received his bachelor's degree last currently in overcrowded areas. are even licensed to practice. represented Gary Castonguay, convicted of murdering year. He then studied at Wesleyan There wa.-; a time when the world But at the t University ofConnecticut Criminal Clinic, a policeman. University on a fellowship, and he was thought to be underpopulated, students have scored some notable victories and Sheldon and his clinic students convinced Superior worked as a research assistant until according to Hud6gins, who noted, "earned a good reputation in the prison and the jail," CourtJudge David M. Shea that the state's death penalty his condition worsened this winter "In the 1900's people were con­says the veteran trial lawyer who directs the program. law was unconstitutional. The clinic is now appealing when he contracted pneumonia. cerned about declinil)g papulation." The program, with 40 students working as unpaid case Castonguay's murder conviction to the state Supreme As time went on though, the popula­investigators, appellate student lawyers and trial stu· Court. Perruccio used to travel on tion steadily increased. It was dent lawyers, is similar to clinics at other universities. With help from several clinic students, Sheldon also campus in a golf cart because his thought that the "population would Nearly every American law school offers programs saved lawrence J Pelletier and Donald Couture, who condition prevented him from overcome the production of food where students acquire "real-lfe" experience were convicted of killing three Purolator guards in a doing unnecessary walking. He tried and we would all starve to death." representing 
1979 armored car stickup. They were sentenced to die a wheelchair for a short while, his 
What was not foreseen was the clients in court. in the electric chair. father said, "but he wanted me to go advancing technology in food But few Sheldon again argued successfully that the state's throw it off a cliff. He said there has production. 
programs can capital punishment law was unconstitutional. The state to be another way." boast of a record is appealing that decision. 
Several obstacles must first be
According to Dr. Hudgins, the of legal victories The clinic won another noteworthy victory when it overcome, however, before thepopulation changes because of the that includes convinced a federal judge to release convicted mur­transplant is possible. Doctors mustbirth rate, death rate and migration. having Connecticut's death penalty law thrown out as derer Robert McCarthy from jail because he wasn't determine if he is a good candidate"In many countries, especially those unconstitutional. granted a speedy trial in the state courts. The state is for the operation, and then a heartdevdoping now, the infant mortality "I think the representation given here is on a par with appealing that ruling. 
must be found.
rate is decreasing" what's given by anybody -private practice lawyers or McCarthy, 32, was convicted in the 1975 shooting "I'd give anything to be able to"Exactly what is the conflict?" public defenders," said Michael R. Sheldon, an associate See CLINIC, page 4 give him my heart," his father said. 
asked Hudgins. "The real problem is law professor and executive director ofthe clinic. 
"He has so much to offer." 




News Brief§ 
By The Obsen1er and The Associated Press 
Four recipients were presented the 1982 College of Engineering Honor Awards during ceremonies last Friday in the Center for Continuing Education. Cited for their contributions to the engineering profession were Wendell F. Bueche, president and chiefoperating officer of the Allis-Chalmers Corp.; Richard E. Lyon, vice president and chief operating officer of the Allis-Chalmers Corp.; Richard E. Lyon, vice president for petroleum research of the Exxon Research and Development Co.; William G. Roth, chairman and chief executive officer of the Trane Company, and Charles H. Samson, vice president for planning at Texas A&M University. Lyon discussed "Re-engineering America's Engineers" during the annual lecture of the ceremonies. Additional honors went to Robert S. Eikenberry, professor emeritus of Aerospace and Mechanical 
Engineering who received the College of Engineering Special Award. -The Observer 
A Japanese electronics firmhas developed a computerized system to translate English into Japanese, a spokes­man for Hitachi Ltd. ofTokyo said. Toshiro Kojima said his company has an M-180 computer that can put English sentences of up to 190 leters intojapa nese within 40 seconds. The computer has a memory of about 10,000 English andjapa nese words. "This is the first step toward the availability ofautomatic translation machines for techni cal documents and brchures," Kojima said. He said the new service is only useful for tech nical translations, and further programming in both English and Japanese is needed to ap ply it to more subtle material. -AP 
Eight black South African miners were killed and seven in jured when a concrete lining collapsed during a shaft-sinking operation, the New Denmark coal mine reported Wed­
nesday. 
At the Free State Geduld gold mie, one black miner was killed, 20 were injured and three were missing under ground after an earthquake Tuesday night, a spokeswoman for the Anglo-American 

mining company said. "We are hopeful offinding the three (missing) men alive because they were seen by their team leader after the tremors," the spokeswoman said. "We suspect that they might have taken a wrong turn in a tunnel or the batteries in their lamps might be flat." The vast majority of white ruled South Africa's estimated 200,000 miners are black. Whites usually hold the senior jobs at the mines, and most work above ground. -AP 
NATO will holdMay maneuvers in Baumholder, West Germany, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization announced Wed­nesday from Brussels. It said 1,200 artillery and in fantry troops from the al liance's mobile force will take part in the maneuvers, code named "Ardent Ground '82," from May 3 to May 31. Contingents from Belgium, Canada, West Germany, Italy, Britain and the United States will participate in the artillery and mortar-firing exercises, NATO said. -AP 
Counseling Center is presenting a workshop, "Surviving Exam Week" on Tuesday April 20th and Thursday April 22nd, from 7-9 p.m. Focus is on time and stress management and relaxation. For more information or to sign up (need to attend both sessions) call 239-5484 or stop by Room 400, Administration l}ldg. -The Observer 
Millions ofcouples and individuals are waiting until the deadline tonight to settle their 1981 federal income taxes. But it will be May 5 before the average American earns enough money to pay this year's U.S., state and local taxes. The Tax Foundation, a Washington-based research organization, cal t culates that "Tax Freedom Day" will arrive three days earlier this year than it did in 1981, due mainly to individual tax euts enacted by Congress last year. That reverses a long-time trend in which the date had gradually moved later each year. The Tax Foundation's "Tax Freedom Day" · estimates the date on which the average taxpayer will have made enough money to pay his or her state, local and federal taxes ifevery dollar earned sincejan. 1 had been earmarked for taxes. In 1930, the date was Feb. 14; 10 years later, it wa.S March 9; another 10 years nudged Tax Freedom Day up to April 4. By 1960, the date was April 18; in 1970, AprH 28; in 1977 and 1978, May 3, and 1979 and 1980, May4. -AP 
The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh said yes­terday it was "high time" the federal government addressed the issue of tax credits for private education. "The last administration did everything possible to avoid it," Hesburgh said of former President Jimmy Carter. "It's time someone laid it on the agenda. It's time to get that discussion started." Hesburgh made his comments during a news conference at the National Catholic Educational Association's annual convention in Chicago. President Reagan is scheduled to address the convention today and announce that he will propose legislation providing tax credits for families whose children attend private or parochial schools. White House aides say Reagan plans to propose tax creditsofup to S500for parents ofthe nation's 5 million private school pupils. Recipients could deduct the credit directly from the amount of federal income tax that they owe. The plan would be phased in over three years and families with income beyond a certain level would be ineligible, according to sources who asked not to be identified. The Congressional Budget Office has estimated that a S250 tax credit for elementary and secondary school tuition would cost S1.3 billion and a S500 credit would cost 
n.9 billion in the first year, assuming no growth in private school enrollments. Reagan's proposal does not include tax credits at the college level -AP 
Partly sunny todayand warm. Highs upper 60s and low 70s. Chance of thundershowers. Around 60 percent chance of rain tonight with a low of50. Thunderstorms likely tomorrow. Highs mid to upper 60s. -AP 
-
Thursday, April 15, 1982 -page 2 
A Bottomless, Black Hole 
For the price of two MX missiles, two B-1 bombers, and one F-16 jet, the Guaranteed Student Loan Program could be saved. 
But right now President Reagan believes that tools of destruction are more vital to the future of the United States than an educated citizenry. His proposal to cut all forms of student aid from $5.7 billion a year to nearly halfthat amount will lead to great problems for the U.S., not only in the near future, but also farther on down the road. 
If Congress approves Reagan's plan, here's what will happen: the Pell program will be limited to $1600 grants to families earning less than $18,000 a year. Up until now, slightly larger grants have gone to families earning up to 527,000. Reagan would also eliminate the Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grants and charge higher interest rates for Guaranteed Student Loans. Students from families with annual incomes higher than $30,000 must estalish "need" before receiving aid. Graduate students would be hit hardest; under the proposal all current aid to them would be completely cut off. 
The direct results ofsuch drastic measures upon the students are now being studied by state authorities. In NewYork, for example, over 27 percent of those current­ly receiving aid wil be con­sidered either ineligible for future aid or will be forced to accept smaller loans. In-1 diana stands to lose $34 mil­lion in federal aid for college students. 
Representative Paul Simon, the chairman of the House , Postsecondary Education Subcommittee, said recently that more than two milliorl collegians would be denied grants and 
loans in the 1983-84 school Agency in New York, is one year. of those alarmed at this ap­"Never before in United parent lack offoresight. 
States history has an Ad­•• Sorr~ kids, the futwc is now.-'' "What startles me," Cross 
ministration believed it could build a better future for the ·country while slash­ing education funds more than 35 percent in a two-year period," said Simon, a Democrat (rom'lllinois. 
With aid less accessible, more and more students will be forced to obtain high-interest bank loans or petition their respective colleges for some kin4 oft financial assis­tance (to those of you who choose this latter route, good luck). Others will have to forego college altoget­
her. · For many colleges and universities, financial need will become an important consideration when deciding upon student-acceptances. Wesleyan University presi­dent Colin G. Campbbelllaments, "For tile first time in 15 years, financial means will be one ofthe many factors considered in admitting a portion of the freshman class." The situation could become just as pressing at Notre Dame. Despite an endowment of well over S220 mil­lion, the University would b~ unable to take up the slack left by the Federal cuts in aid. 
"If all .the cuts go through as Reagan is proposing views of the author, and do not nect:ssarily represent 

Desigt~ Editor ...................... Monica Gugl<> Desigt~ Assistat~ts ..... .. ........... Ed Carroll Sue Flynn Typesetters................ .. ..... Bruce Oakley 
Mark Miotto 
News Assistat~t ................. Mark Worscheh Copy Editor...........................joe Musemeci Editorials ........................ Mike McCaughey B&T Layout ............................... Alex Szilvils Sports Copy Editor.................. Ed Konrady Typist......................................Jeanine Hynes ND Day Editor........................... Dave Grate SMC Day Editor .................julia Trimarchi AdDesigt~ ............................john & Marilyn Photographer .......,...................... Tonia Hap Guest Appearat~ces ...............A little torch 
Surfing is Good!!!! 
The Observer (USPS !>98 920) 1s published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys Col­lege Subscnp!lons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnllng The Observer. P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556. 
the views ofThe Observer or its editorial board.



,.,...• ••••••••••••••• 
•: 
•
• 
. ....
. •
·+University P~k Mall and ll Concord· & Pterre Moran• • Malls -Elkhart •
..•..••••••••••••••..~
_ 


them, it would leave large gaps in what we will be able to provide the students," said Fr. joseph Carey, a coun­selor for the Notre Dame financial aid office. "Notre Dame funds would simply not be able to make up the great difference in aid left open by the proposed cuts." 
There are many distressing aspects concerning the whole.sordid situation. For one, the federal government will expend (or waste, as the case may be) over 5:<l25 billion on defense spending this year. Far from being a Libertarian, I fully realize the importance and need ofa strong military, especially in today's volatile and uncer­tain world. But by considering more frugal spending, Reagan could not only save the student aid program but also many other social programs that have recently suf­fered the bite of Reagan's budget-cutting sword. By 
doing this, the President could improve the present situation of many hard­pressed Americans as well as continue to build upon the foundation. of an educated popufus, which is vital to insure a strong and promis­ing future for the U.S. 
Another troubling aspect of Reagan's plan is that he has made the proposal with­out studyin~ the effects and consequences of the cuts. Dolores E. Cross, president of the Education Services 

said recently, "is. that the Reagan Administration acted with very little informa­tion on how students finance their education and with even less information on the social impact of this. change in federal policy.'' 
The social impact would be devastating. Equal oppor­tunity for all those who wished to gain a college educa­tion will be a thing of the past. Social mobility will be stifled. The future ofmany private institutions will be at stake. 
Of cc:mrse it is the middle class who will oncct again bear th<! burden of this proposal. A large number of the students from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's come from middle. class families. It is your future which is being held in the balance. Write to your Congressman. Write to President Reagan. Make some noise. 'This is.certainly. no time for apathy. Maybe together we can make the President realize that what this country needs is books, not more bombs. I 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the 
•
:· 
. 
15% Discount: N.D.-S.M.c.i. 
Students 

.,'• 


The Observer Thursday, April 15, 1982 -page 3 
Sullivanlecture 


Church supports labor unions 
secular union members un:
ByDIANEDIRKERS be considered infallible, Catholics 
StaffReporttlr Catholic," related S!Jllivan. 
are obligated to "take heed to and 
In reference to current Reagan at­
respect" them before forming an al­Trade unions are "the crucible of ternative opinion, said Sullivan. 
tacks on labor unions as being the Catholic Church," stated Fr. Sullivan concluded his lecture
counter-productive to economic Patrick Sullivan at his lecture last 
with a brief insight into the future of night in Hayes-Healy entitled "Blue the Catholic labor movement, Collar/Roman Collar: The Church's 
stressing participative labor­Response to Unions." 
managemen! relations as a possible Ever since the inception of or­
alternative solution for the inflation­ganized labor unions in the in­
and unemployment-riddled labor dustrial age of the late 1800's, the 
world of today. Catholic church has fully supported 
The 1960's and Vatican II brought
"organizing blue-collar and un­great changes in society and the 
skilled laborers," according to Sul­church, said Sullivan, leading to the 
livan. Pope Leo Xlll was one of the realization that "the labor question
first popes to deliver an encyclical was not the only problem for the 
intended to stimulate the growth of church to consider." "New and 
Catholic labor unions in Europe and gigantic problems" -~uch as the 
secular unions In the United States. 
issues of birth control, divorce and 
The Great Depression of the the mass exodus ofpriests and other 
1930's marked one of the most con­religious -pre-empted the former troversial eras for the Catholic labor emphasis on labor unions, explained
movement as the question of the 
Sullivan. New Deal as socialism arose, 
Recent developments in the Cath­believes Sullivan. Popes Pius XII and 
olic labor movement have been cen­John XXItl countered the trend 
tered ilround minorities and towards socialism by "establishing 
diSc:rimiilation. One of the most
f'r. Pat Sullivan 
the right to have property as a meta­
notorious events involves Cesar pbysi,~a/ right," explained Sullivan. 
Chavez and his efforts to unionize Numerous attempts were made to prosperity, Sullivan stated that the oppressed hispanic workers in 
establish separate Catholic unions t,<> "contributions to union-busting Southern California, according to go against the socialist-oriented campaigns arc immoral ... and not Sulljvan. Papal support has also been secular unions such as the U.A. W. excusable given Catholic teach­lent to unionizing efforts in Latin (United Auto Workers) and some ings." Although papal encyclical!, America, Poland, and Third World Catholics "even went as far as callin~ · concerning labor unions arc not to cot•n~ries. 
Judge·frees accused arsonist 

WHITE PLAINS, N.Y. (AP) -A presence near the end of the six-ways work," Martin said. The judge .judge who said he was following week trial that he felt the prosecu-said he: knew his decision would be 
"my conscience and the law" set tion had failed to prove its case. unpopular and would hurt his 
aside Luis Marin's arson and murder On Wednesday, he read from a ch~nces of being elected to a higher 
{:Onvictio'n yesterday in the Stouf­prepared statement as the district at-judgeship. 
fer's Inn fire that killed 26 people. torney glared from a front row in the Marin had been told he was to be 
''I have never sent a defendant to cuurtroom crowded with his trial as-dismissed from his job for being an 

prison whose guilt has not been fully sistants. illegal alien. He might have: had a 
established and I nt;ver will," a som­"I feel compelled to act in order to motive to set the fire, but it was 
berJudge Lawrence Martin told the prevent a terrible wrong. Our jury "pure guesswork and speculation," 
packed, hushed courtroom as he system is npt perfect. It does not al-the judge said. 
overturned the jury verdict. 
Marin, a 26-year-old former 


I-----------------,Come Share the Eucharist

waiter at the hotel in Harrison, burst 
1 

into tears and hugged his attorneys after the judge said the evidence t Celebrating 10 years of t against him was "insufficient" and 
t Notre Dame men Swomen t

dismissed 26 counts of murder and 
arson. 
"I love America!" the Guatemalan : Sunday, April IS. 8:30pm : 

native exclaimed minutes later 
when he was reunited with his wife, t Sacred Heart Church f 
Blanca. He had been held without 
-t Celebrant: ~~u. Theodore_Hesburgh, C.S.C. f

bail for nearly a year on the charges before being freed yesterday. Carl Vergarl, the Westchester 

~---~~~~~~~~~~---~ 

County district attorney, told repor­
ters later he would appeal the deci­
~-----------------------------------------------------· 

sion, which he branded a "gross 
perversion" ofthe judicial system. 
"It turns my stomach to see a man convicted of 26 murders walk away from this courthouse," Vergari said. 



DANCE.
A jury deliberated for six days before convicting ~arin last Satur­day of setting the Dec. 4, 1980, fire that killed top executives of Nestle Co., Arrow Electronics and United 
SEE somepros
States Brewers in meeting rooms at the flotel. Marin had faced life in prison, 
do it--from Cleveland, New York, and Indianap­
with a minimum of I 5 years. 
olis-with Southold Dance Theater's production of Richard Uviller, a professor at 
Tchaikovsky 's favorite ballet: 

Columbia University Law School in 
New York, said the case was unusual 
Southold Dance Theater 
but not rpe because the law allows a 

Jeanne Krier

"second look" by the judge when 
-'l-1?(1_tll-1,j­

mistues are made by the jury. 
P.O. Box 4164 ~L-u a 
But Uvlller said careful work by the judge and jury would put a "real 
So. Bend ln. 46624 ~ 1 
tough choice" to the appeallate 
239-6346 L'C'&fll 11 
courts. Juror Anthea Frankl of Ossining, 
Sat., Apr. 17 (8:00 Pl\1) ~ N.Y., sa.ld the aquitral left her 
Sun., Apr. 18 (2:00 P~l-!12 price stu.) Y' 
"hollow" and she hoped the 
~lorris Civic Auditorium

prosecution would win its appeal. "I 
All ~l'ats reserved: $-:1--S7. Tickets: 284--91 II
have no doubt in my mind (of 
Marin's guilt)," she said. "I think 
everyone involved has done what 
ND community inmh·cd: Jim Bellis, l\lary Frances they think is right." 
DeCelles, Sabrina Geoffrion, Sinanc Goulet, Diana 
Manin, a 46-year-old county 
Hawfield, Kathy Johnson, Jeanne Krier, Sarah Krier,
judge, had said out of the jury's 
Tom \\'crge, Paul Winum 


Yesterday's spring weather notonly Jured winter-weary students outdoors to enjoy the sunshine, but it also attracted visitors to the now snow-free campus. (photo by Tonia Hap) 
~*********************************~ 
:  See flee~ Rood CMqHucy fM8lha•e6  :  
i  ANNIE  !  
~ ~ ~  at lice fl.. -..... Tf...._l....,_ • ClcieagVIOWK ItteiWie Q( D.  ~ ~ ~  
~iSwcdoy. ApUf 25  ~i  

: .TirkeU $24.00: Hfailt ReM F1I8Hf Sealilfg &T~ • 

: Available at Student Union Ticket Office 
i 

~~*********************************~ 






DELIVERING to NOTRE DA:rviE and SAINT MARY'S 
Or.lt·r th•· 1'.\'I'Rf.\\ /)/-'/./\ FR \ ·, 
Medium -pepperoni -sausage Or combo 
~urd ,.,.,...;,.,. 'ftli~.·k,·r _.,,,•rr•;,.,. 
FM Cok•, 1 Utif w/M.d.Pizza 2Utera w/lor~ Pizza 
JDriver h.u fresh pi:ua for ule on truck.• 
HOURS: ffion-Thurs and Sunda 
5Pm -tO:lOPm Fri. and Sat. 5Pm -12:30Am 
..... 
The Observer Thursday, April IS, 1982-page 4 
Nuclear buildup 


Reagan requests extrafunds 

WASHINGTON (AP)-In a quiet 
move shadowed by the growing 
movement for a nuclear arms freeze, 
President Reagan has asked 
Congress for an additional $400 mil­
lion to accelerate production 
through 1983. 

Reagan's request for more money to build atomic bombs went to Congress at the very time SeJ]ate and House members were focusing on resolutions calling for either a gradual arms reduction or an im­mediate freeze by the United States and the Soviet Union. 
The president's March 29 request drew virtually no notice at the time. In recent days, however, administra­tion officials pointed to the proposed spending increase as one of the factors driving the budget defiicit higher than the administra­tion had estimated in February. 
Reagan is seeking S97.4 million more for bomb production in fiscal 1982, which ends in September; an additional $310.9 million for 1983, and another $1 billion for 1983-87. 
A congressional source, who did not want to be identified, said some of the money would be used to ac­quire materials and facilities needed to produce the neutron warhead, a high radiation weapon designed to 
kill people without causing massive 
damage to surrounding buildings. 
Reagan gave the go-ahead for 
neutron warhead production last 
August, reversing a 1978 decision by 
the Carter administration. 
Reagan's latest request comes on top of a $1 billion budget increase for nuclear warhead production al­ready approved by Congress for 1982 and a further S800 million in­
crease Reagan is seeking for 1983. Under Reagan's proposal, total spending would climb from S3.65 billion in 1981 to $5.8 billion next year. 
The latest request for more money was triggered by a recent presidential signing of a "stockpile memorandum" calling for an ac­celerated program of warhead development. 
One administration official, who did not want his name used, said Reagan had to ask Congress to in­crease spending because he signed the memorandum after February 8, when he sent his proposed budget for 1983 to Congress. 
Reagan notified Congress of his proposed increase on the same day that 13 House members introduced a resolution calling for a gradual U.S.­Soviet reduction of nuclear arma-
SFART THINKING ABOUTSUMMER... 
FOR Bl1LLETI!'i, APPLICATION, AND INFORMATION, CALL: 
DIRECTOR OF SPECIAL SESSIONS • (9141 636-2100, ext. 592 
IONA COLLEGE, Ne" Rochelle, New \ork, N.Y. 10801 
Return Coupon To: DIRECTOR OF SPECIAL SESSIONS •IONA COLLEGE, 715 North Avenue New York, N.Y. 10801 Please send me further information about SUMMER AT ION A COLLEGE FOR ENJOYMENT AND CREDIT! 
NAME_____________________________________________ ADDRESS___________________________________________ I CITY . I 
L---~~~Ho~------~Th~~z~--------~-~ 
ments. 
One day later, the president gave general support to a similar Senate resolution while the House held an unusual evening debate on the merits of an immediate U.S.-Soviet freeze. 
The administration official said Wednesday that the timing of the March 29 request "really was just 
coincidental"  to  the  arms  ontrol  
debate  going  on  at  the  time  in  
Congress.  

The official added that he was surprised the request received so little attention considering the growing national movement to halt the arms race because of renewed fears ofa nuclear war. 
...Oinic 
continuedfrom page 1 
death ofVictoria Stuart and the at­
tempted murder of her husband 
Donald. He was sentenced to 25 
years to life in prison for murder, but 
his convictions were overturned 
becuse he spent 19 months in jail 
waiting for his trial to start. 
As word ofthe students' successes 
have spread, state prison inmates 
and others in trouble have in­
undated Sheldon's students with re­
quests for help. 
"I get five or six new letters every day," he said. "We're referred cases all the time and at any one point in time, I'd say we have 75 cases pen­ding." 
Although Sheldon is the driving force behind the clinic, the students do most of the work. He credits that work for making this "law firm" as successful as it is. 
Some students have compared the demands of the UConn clinical ex­perience to being married. They toil long hours in the clinic's cluttered offices in a corner of the old junior high school building that serves as Connecticut's law school. 
"I don't see how it can be any other way when you're dealing with someone's life," said Mollie Hayes, a 24-year-old senior. 
Jon Schoenborn, a third-year stu­dent, said an indigent defendant represented by the clinic is getting the same kind ofpersonalized atten­tion and preparation someone with S50,000 or S I 00,000 to pay for an 
attorney would get." 
"For every case, there are at least two lawyers, if not more," said Lynne Cochrane, a 24-year-old senior. "It's like a family everybody puts their heads together and ~ies to come up with good ideas. There's alwa t ys somebody who had sone something in that little area you haven't researched yet and is willing to contribute those 
ideas." 
Thw clinic's caseload is expected 
to grow as attorneys' fees rise and 
the public defender system 
becomes more overburdened. 
"We have agood reputation in the 
prison and the jail," Sheldon said. 
"The students go visit people, they 
spend time with them, they try to 
help them. They just take that 
obligation more completely than 
other lawyers have the time to do or 
the inclination to do." 
~:toweRs anb q1~ts ~oR an occass1ons 
~~~~~-

Wyqant floRal Co. 327 lmcotnway 



The Observer Thursday, April 15, 1982 page 5 
'Huddledin comer' 


Seven prisoners die in jailfire 
JERSEY CITY, N.J. (AP)-Seven extinguished within about a half­history for setting tires had ignited trapped prisoners died "huddled in a hour, authorities said. the blaze. corner" early yesterday when tire All the victims shared the 30-by-Other witnesses said they had 
swept through their t:ighth-tloor 30-toot edt on the top story, Jersey heard inmates shouting from the holding cell at the overcrowded City Fire ChiefJohn Mullins said. windows that the fire had been set Hudson County Jail. "They were huddled in a corner of by a prisoner. 
Two inmates told a lawyer they the cell," Mullins said. "They Moskowitz said two inmates from heard guards shouting "Where's the couldn't get out." the jail telephoned his office yester­key? where's the key?" after the tire As to the cause of the fire, he said, day morning and said they heard erupted about S a.m. "At this point, we'd say it was ac­guards asking about the keys. 
Some witnesses said the blaze was cidental." Moskowitz, who has tiled a law­
started by an inmate who deliberate­The jail which has a capacity of suit claiming the jail's facilities are ly set tire to a highly flammable foam 280 inmates, housed more than 500 inadequate, said the cell where the mattress. on yesterday, according to Howard fire broke out was used to house County public relations director Moskowitz, a lawyer with the prisoners with psychiatric 
Cas Rakowski refused to comment American Civil Liberties Union in problems. on those reports, or on reports that NewJersey. "The people in the so-called pys­the eighth floor was used to house Umar Abdul Aziz, the Muslim chiatric ward are not cared for inmates with psychiatric problems. chaplain at the jail, was allowed properly," he said. "There are psyc­
The tire broke out about S a.m. at inside after the fire. He said inmates hotics, schizophrenics, people the 66-year-old facility, and it was told him a prisoner with a known suffering from serious mental problems in there. There is no spe­cial supervision whatsoever. They are sometimes chained down and the guards take a look at them 
through the bars." 
Prison officials declined to release 
names ofthe dead until their families 
Lawyerclaimsclient 

requestedprotection 
had been notitied. After the news of the tire spread, some relatives con­
NEW YORK (AP)-A murdered Coley said the only aid the • 
verged on the jail and waited outside New York Citypolice stand over murder 11ictim. See related story.
bookkeeper who was aiding a S6 government felt necessary for his 
for word. ( AP Laserphoto )
million federal fraud probe had com­client was to accept her plea secret­plained that her life wa.' in danger ly and to keep her agreement to tes­and a.sked the government in vain tify sealed. In a plea bargaining 
'Strongprotest 'issued
for protection from her former agreement, Miss Barbera admitted employer, her lawyer said yesterday. to conspiracy to commit mail fraud and agreed to help investgators. But the FBI and the U.S. Attorney's The superintendent of Miss Bar­
TaiUJan artns deal upsets Chinese oll1ce denied receiving any request bera's apartment building in the for protection from Margaret Bar­borough ofQueens said she told him PEKING (AP) -China issued a The U.S. spare parts sale and affairs without being forced to adopt hera, 3H, who was found shot to "someone wa.s after her." "strong protest" yesterday over the China's reaction apparently left un­socialism. death Tuesday morning in a lower Joseph Clundt said that in the last proposed S60-million U.S. sale of changed the position stated in an But the Chinese press ha.~ said Manhattan alley. year she had put metal bars on her military spare parts to Taiwan, and authoritative Chnese press com­some Americans want "to maintain 
She wa.s abducted from a WeM windows, changed the lock on her warned of the consequences of any mentary last week: "Whether Sino­permanent control of Taiwan and Side parking ~-:arage Monday night by front door and installed a burglar new arms deal. U.S. relations will retrogress or not thereby control the People's a masked gunman who killed three alarm in her car. She also was taking The Foreign Ministry, however, depends on whether the United Republic of China" from the CBS employees when they tried to · ,'(:'~-.: 1-:ssons, he said. noted U.S. explanations that the States earnestly respects China's "unsinkable aircraft carrier." help her. PoIke also said a friend and · Neither Schlesinger nor Marrin spare parts sale did not include sovereignty and makes up its mind 
The proposed parts sale is the firstco-worker of Miss Barbera's, Jennie was available for comment. But weapons. to settle the issue of arms sales to military sale to Taiwan sinceSoo Chin, is missing and presumed Patricia Hynes, executive assistant A ministry spokesman also said Taiwan." 
February 19HO, when the Pentagondead. U.S. attorney, said no request for talks continue on China's demand It said U.S.-China relations were announced plans to provide theMt·anwhile, police said they were protection had been received, and for a total halt of U.S. arms sales to gravely threatened. 
Nationalists with improved llawknot looking for Irwin Margolies, that her office had no information Taiwan. China has indicated it will China contends that any arms anti-aircraft missiles. But Chinaowner of the bankrupt diamond that indicated Miss Barbera's life was downgrade relations with Washing­sales to Taiwan interfere in Chinese pointed out U.S. explanations that itcompany where Miss Barbera in jeopardy. ton if the United States does not efforts for peaceful reunification 
had been promised to Taiwan bcton·
worked and about which she had Ms. Hynes refused to say if Miss agree to set a date for stopping the with the land of 18 million people, President Reagan met with Chineseagreed to testify bdore a grand jury. Barbera's death would retard the in­sales. where the Chinese Nationalists Premier Zhao Ziyang in Mexico last"That's a federal matter," said a vestigation ofCador Diamond Corp., Last year, China downgraded rela­retreated in 1949 when Communist fall.
police spokesman. the bankrupt company of which she tions with the Netherlands to the forces took over the mainland. 
Joseph Valiquette, an FBI spokes­was comptroller. charge d'affaires level in retaliation Last September, it proposed that The Reagan administration has man, said the hureau was not Candor was forced into to the proposed sale of two Dutch after reunification, Taiwan could turned down Taiwan's n:quest for seeking Margolies and that the mur­bankruptcy last year by an Irving submarines to Taiwan. keep its own army and run its own more advanced tighter planes. 
der was matter li>r city police. Trust Co. subsidiary which claimed 
Margolies' lawyer said in a deposi­to have been tricked into accepting tion taken last year that Margolies S6 million in bogus accounts told him he once threatened to kill receivable. \1 iss Barbera. 
California Stereo Liquidators, Federal No. 95-3531037, will dis­
James R. Coley Jr., .Miss Barbera's lawyer, said he spoke to U.S. Attor­


Cap&Gown 

pose of, /or a manufacturer's representative, their inventory surplus 
neyJohn Martin yesterday afternoon 
of new stereo-equipment. The items listed below will be sold on a
and "reaftirmed" that both he and 

measurements 

first-come first-served basis at. Sunday, April 18, 1982
his client a.'ked for protection from 
Margolit"s. 
HOLIDAY INN 9:00A.M. to 2:00P.M. 
":\1iss Barbera and mysdf asked Representatives of an academic 
515 Dixie Way, South Bend, IN ONLY WHILE QUANTITIES LAST
several tinu~s that she be provided apparel tlrm will be in Notre Dame's with protection, starting just bdore Hammes Bookstore on Monday, 
Value 
Price Value Price 22 Parr Only Coox1ol Cor 
the dissappearam:e of Mrs. Chin (on April 19, and Tuesday, April 20, to 
5 Only AM;FM Cossette

Jan. S) and ending after Miss Barbera take measurements and orders for 
$159. $29 each
Cor Stereos, In Dash Speakers G1ont Mags $89 $29 poir said. be used May 16. 
entered her plea" in March, Coley commencement caps and gowns to 
5 Only AM!FM 8 Trk P01r Only Tnox1ul Cor He said the requests were made to Orders tor rental of apparel will 
Cor Stereo In Dash $139 $29 •ach Speakers, G1ont Mags $119 $49 poirAssistant U.S. Attorm:y Steve be received trom 9 a.m. to Schlesinger. 4~~0 p.m. Monday and Tuesday. 
20 Only 8· Track Cor 18 Onlv Groph1c Equol1zers Stereos, Underdosh $69 $19 •ach For Cor, High Wattage $159 $39 each
********************************** 
* * 
20 Only Cossette Cor 23 Parr Only 2· Wov Cor Ster~s. Underdosh $75 $25 each SpPokt'rS, Duul Cone $49 $19 poir 

i PITTSBURGH CLUB E 
: HAPPYHOUR!!!! : 
32 Only AM!FM!Btrock J0 Only AM!FM 1n Dash 
Car Stereos In Dash (Best) $165 $59 each Cassettes For Small Cars $225 $89
*~ All Pittsburyh Club members and guests *: 
* are inuited to a Happy Hour from 3:00-6:00 * 
30 Only AM!FM Cossette 22 Only AM;FM Cassettes 
Car Stereos In Dash (Best) $189 $59 each For Car UJIIh Auto Reverse $225 $89each
* in Flanner's Commoner THIS Friday, April 16. * 
E Electionsfor next year's officers will E 
20 Palf Only Modular 27 Only Pou;er Boosters 4· Way Speakers $179 $89 pair For Stereo, High Wattage $89 $29each
~ also take-place as well as FREE SHIRTS~ ~ being distributed. t 
ALL BRAND NEW MERCHANDISE Wl1Jt FULL 2 YEAR WARRANTIES! Buy one or all of the above quantie.s listed-The Public is Invited
! Pittsbughers are FREE ~ 
VISA, MASTERCARD, CASH or PERSONAL CHECKS WELCOMED ~ with some proof that you're a Pirate's fan. ~ •n•.z~ DAY ONLY SUNDAY APRIL 18 ONLY WHILE QUANmlES lAST! 
********************************** 







~usiness & Technology_Th_ursd_ar,_Apri_lls_,l98_2_pag_e6 
Research Update 
GrowingJapanese competitionhas caused 
manufacturers ofsilicon memory chips to anounce plans to expand university research spending to 520 million over the next two years. The original program, announced in December, called for spending SS million. The program is intended to encourage long-term semi­conductor research and to increase the supply ofprofessional staff, said Robert N. Noyce, vice chairman of the Intel Corporation and chairman of the Semiconductor Industry Association. The trade group, which includes about SO companies, is sponsoring the effort through a new, nonprofit affiliate, the Semiconductor Research Cooperative American companies ace barred by antitrust laws from pooling research for joint product development but not from pooling funds for basic research in universities. Silicon memory 
chips are wafers the size of a fingernail that are linked together to build computer components. 

Economic Update 
United States businesses cut their inventories four-tenths of I percent in February, the Commerce Department reported today. It was the third consecutive month offailing inven­tories setting the stage for a possible rise in industrial production to replenish stocks. The February inventory decline, to a seasonally adjusted level of $508.9 billion, was accompanied by a 2.2 percent 
increase in sales, to a seasonally adjusted 57.33 billion. As a result, the closely watched inventory-to-sales ratio declined sharply, to 
1.48 in February from 1.52 in January. The ratio shows how may months it would take to sell off inventories at the current sale pace. The dropin the ratio was the first since last June, the month before the present recession began. 
TheJustice Departmentgave qualified approval today to a deal under which the Stroh Companies Inc. would acquire 67 percent of the shares of the Jos. Schlitz Brewing Company for $325 million. In doing so, the department expressed reservations about possible anticompetitive effects where the two brewers have substantial overlapping interests and said it would continue to study the case. The department's announcement this evening appeared to clear the way for completion ofthe acquisition, despite Schlitz's op­position to Stroh's offer. Schlitz is seeking to find another company with which to merge, but so far it has been unsuccessful. 

Wall Street Update 
With little sign of any immediate settlement of the 1983 budget dispute between Congress and the White House, the stock market lost its gains of the last three sessions W edq.esday but trading was the slowest in a week. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrial stocks fell 2.95 to 838.09 -below the 840 level for the first time since last Wednesday's 836.85 close.· Declines out~um­bered gainers by a 4-3 margin in .the overall tally on the New York Stock Exchange. Big Board volume reached 45.1 S million shares, the smallest-total since 43.20 million shares changed hands April6. The Dow showed a loss all session but recovered slightly from its late­morning drop of 4.95 points. Quarterly reports during the day 
showed depressed earnings for a number ofcorporations in the first 
• three months ofthe year, but they were expected. 
S 1995 single 
special room rate April 1st-30th 

1-80 {Indiana Tollway) At Exit 77 52825 U.S. 33 North South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-9000 
Give your budget a rest. 

Notre Dame engineers are using computer researchers Stephen Yurkovich, Dr. Michael Sain simulation techniques in attempts to improve and Thomas Klingler. engine quality. Seen here are (from left to right) 
. Research continues 
. Computers improving engifles 
By DAVID SARPHIE 
News Editor 

A group of Notre Dame engineers is researching the capacities of the computer as a method ofcontrolling and improving jet engines, a method which could eventually lead to the development ofpilotless aircraft. 
The team, headed by Michael Sain ~ of the University's electrical engineering department, analyzes the sensitivity ofvarious mathemati­cal formulas to changes in the opera­tion of gas turbine engines. "We try to develop formulas which ace ef­fective in improving the perfor­
mance ofthese engines," Sain said. These formulas will eventually
,.. develop into a computer program to -_control the operation ofthe engines, replacing the curr~nt hydro­mechanical control. "The -substitution of electronics for springs and darrJpings as a method ofcontrolling these engines is analagous to the development·of w~rd-processing systems," Sain 
Movin'out? 
RENT A . 



RYDER TRUCK
,, . 

If you're I 8 or over you can rent a Ryder truck to use locally or on a one-way (rent-it-here. leave-it-there) trip to another city Compare costs before you make plans for mov1ng at the end 
of the semester. With a truck you can take along your stereo, 10-speed, 1Notre Dame/St. Mary~ clothes. all your stuff, and still have plenty of room for one or two other 1 · S • [ people and their things. so you can share the costs. Compare that to a 1 ~JJecza 
plane ticket. Or even a bus. 1 
1QO/ 0 F F 

Rent from the best-maintained, most dependable fleet 1n [ ~~ J 1 JO the world-Ryder. The best truck money can rent. 1
RYDER 

tt!.;;~~s,t. r------;~yoneway rental card rate 
~'=tt f With thiS COUPON I and yourStudent/Facalty ID I I through June 30,1982 I Good at 2715 N. Bendix Dr., S.B. 
YDER TRUCKRENTAL 
~~~~·l 2715N.BENDIX DR South Bend 
noted. "In th~ classic typewriter you 
could actually ·see the moving parts. 
In the new system everything_is 
done electronically:''· 
Sain's research uses computer simulation of an actual gas turbine engine to measure the angular velocity ofthe turbines and the tem­perature and pressure ofthe gases at several points throughout the engine. .­
With this data;\ Sain's formulas 
calculate the necessary changes in 
the fuel flow, pitch of the fan blades, 
and hydraulic exhaust iris to im­
prove the performance of the rengine. 
"The precision ofthe temp~rature control is especially important," Sain reported. "The gases need to be , hot enough to be combustible, but they ·can't be too hot or the blades 
will melt." 

Although the findings of Sain's team could eventually aid in the development ofpilotless aircraft, he acknowledged that the emphasis of the research lies primarily with the 
control and performance of the engines. "As control engineers, we set a goal in research and then develbp a plan to arrive at that goal," Sain. said. ;'Currently, our goal is to develop this electronic control sys-tern." 
Supported by a grant from NASA, the project has been,at Notre Dame for seven yqrs, 'and Sain has directed it for three years. Working with Sain this year ace graduate stu­dents Thomas Klinglec, Stephen YurkQVich, Joseph O'Sullivan, and Joe Hill and undergra~uate Daniel Bugajski. 
Sain, a native ofSt. Louis, received 
a doctoral degree from the Uri~r­
sity of Illinois. Since coming to 
Notre Dame in 1965, he has 
researched multi-variable control 
systems, engine control, and al­
gebraic system theory. 
Along with J.L Melsa, the chair• man of Notre Dame's Department of Electrical Engineering, 1 Sain · compiled a book. of 1 7 papers, devoted to differing theories on turbo engine control. 


) 





Editorials 
Thursday, April 15, 1982 -page 7 
Liberal education means more than liberal arts 
their ignorance when they proclaim are nothing hut a group of trained themselves virtuous by right of their ·seals do not realize the creativity education. They obviously have not and physical insight it takes to solve taken the time to appreciate the today's technical problems. Every beauty that lies within the equations academic discipline has its share of which they so disdain. Certainly skill training, such as basic algebraic science and engineering students manipulations in math and paper should take more courses in the wntmg in history; but every humanities in order to broaden their academic discipline also demands education, but arts and letters stu· inventive thinking. There is a story dents do not hold a monopoly on told of a debate between a scientist education and should more fully ed­and a poet. "You sir," said the scien­ucate themselves by taking addition­tist, "do not have the creativity to be al technical subjects. a scientist." Then the poet said, "You 
The popular misconception is sir, do not have the precision to be a that students in technical disciplines 
poet."U l!/~
learn only skills. But those who believe that engineers and scientists 
P .O.BoxQ 
Unions must cooperate 
DearEditor: The future for unions and 
management is cooperation. 
The April 7 article by Anthony Management must improve up­Walton, entitled "Don't blame the ward communication, allowing unions," is a weak attempt to jus­labor to participate within the tify labor unions' actions in the company and increase a sense of contemporary business environ­belonging to the company. For its ment. In his article, Walton gives part, labor must take a more his full support for labor, while responsible attitude towards scolding management at every quality, productivity and pride in turn. In effect, Walton is promot· workmanship. Union demands ing an adversarial relationship be­should not only meet the needs of tween management and unions, its members, but also meet the and it is this type ofattitude which companies' needs to remain com­has injured United States petitive and profitable. Ideally businesses in the world economy. there would exist a triangular 
I will grant the value ofunions as relationship among owners, labor a part of a check and balance and customers, each one having its economy. One need only look at own influence according to invest­the pre-union abuses of manage­ment, input and risk taken. ment to justify their existence. The time is coming for manage­However, today's too-powerful 
ment and labor to stop pointing unions are irresponsible to 
fingers at each other. This adver· management and private owner­
sarial relationship is detrimental to ship in our private enterprise sys­labor, management and customers. tem. They often fail to recognize that the world market is now the MicbaeJJ. Martin relevant market. Former HPC President 
Dance review ''misguided' ' 
DearEditor: role in the "Prague Dumka" served 
to highlight her delicate style. Un­
Of the may misguided state­fortunately, these ·important ele­ments Tari Brown made in her ments of the art, which Mary's recent review of the Spring Dance dancing so beautifully reflect, are Concert, the assertion that the not generally appreciated by those choreography was beyond Mary who do not possess an intimate Scheiber's capabilities is utterly knowledge of ballet and all Its sub-· untrue. tleties. 
Mary's technique is fine, precise 
Frances Regas 

and extremely clean. Her intricate 
Fellow Perfonner

solo in "Trois Danseuses" and her 
''Ludicrous ''journalism 
DearEditor But then last week a sports ar­ticle by Dave Dziedzic included a At first I thought it was an April quote from Dave Dziedzic. It is Fools joke -a letter to the editor bad enough that the Bookstore from the editor! On the editorials Basketball Commissioner must page of your April I edition, sacrifice the paper's supposed ob­Editor-in-Chief Michael Monk jectivity by writing about the responded toJack Vogel's editorial tournament as a reporter, but then 
which defended El Salvador's left­to quote himself1!! It's ludicrous. 
ist guerrillas. Monk's lengthy letter What kind of journalistic 
ran the same day as 1 ) his own practices are these? 
Inside Column on the El Salvador 
situation and 2) the April Fools Robert Winfield 
DayAbsurder. 
South Bend 

education consisting of courses
The recent litany of criticism in from both realms: science, mathe­
The Obsen,er against the curricula in matics and engineering on the one
the colleges of Science and hand and philosophy, history, theol­
Engineering has grown tiresome. ogy, language, etc. on the other.
Suddenly it is chic to lambast the Most arts and letters students at
science and engineering students Notre Dame take only one year of
for being illiterate job-hungry basic mathematics and one year ofa diluted science. That kind of a cur­
Nick Matich 

riculum does not produce a liberally educated person.
Wider Perspectives 
In the past, thesciences were con­cretins who merely memorize equa­sidered a part ofphilosophy for they 

tions verbatim. Arts and Letters stu· gave their practitioners and students 
dents, these recent articles would a specific world vie~ rooted in fact 
THE TOTAL EDUCATION
have us believe, are the intellectual and physical reality. That is still true 
elite of the University who ponder today. Students oftechnical subjects 
and discuss great issues while do not merely memorize equations 
ticular tree quite aesthetically pleas­making an heroic attempt to lift their but they struggle to understand, ing due to its curves, colors, and peers out of the quagmire of techni­model, predict, and modify the in­textures while a botanist may see cal training into the brilliant light of finite number of physical processes more beauty in the complex
J 
a truly liberal education. Nothing created by God. The person with a processes which have evolved into can be farther from the truth. scientific or engineering education that tree and sustain its life. The 
People who think that as liberal has learned to reason logically botanist, however, has one ad­arts graduates they have a monopoly through complex problems step by vantage. His education does not on education are badly mistaken. step and to analyze situations, often prevent him from appreciating the 
The world in which we live is a in precise mathematical terms. aesthetics of the tree while the artist 
dynamic combinaton ofthe physical Beauty can exist at all levels of can only guess at what lies beneath 
and the spiritual, the quantitative perception and understanding. The the colors, curves and textures. and the qualitative. Ther­quantum mechanical behavior of It is the mixture of courses from modynamics is as much a part of the the atom holds as much beauty and all disciplines which makes a liberal 
real world as is literature. In order to fascination for the physicist as do the education. Arts and letters students understand that world fully, one intricacies of Vivaldi for the who only take the required number needs a truly liberal undergraduate musician. An artist may find a par-of technical subjects demonstrate 

A kingdom for an island? 
The Falkland Islands have sudden-' Britain returned in 1833 to take con­Foreign Secretary Lord Carrrington ly hurst upon the forefront of news trol of tlle islands without contest. 1 resigned in disgrace as the Thatcher medias from a period of obscurity. Today's population of 1,800 is 97 government was put in a position The Falkland Islands first became an percent British. Their principal oc­where it was forced to use a show of area for struggle in 1770 when the cupation is tending the island's force· or be toppled. A tide of Spanish controlled the ·east island 600,000 sheep. The people want to nationalism is sweeping across and the British the west. On june 4, maintain their ties to England, but England for the Falklanl)s, which are 17470, Don Juan Ignacio Madriarga Her Majesty's government can ill af. more than 8,000 miles away. brought 1,400 troops to the western ford to support them. The island has The reasons for the Argentine in­
' ' 
island to force the British to·surren­lost its strategic importance since vasion most probably have resulted der. the English began using the Panama from domestic turmoil. l>res. Gal­Canal rather than rounding Cape tieri's regime has been instable be­Edward Konrady Horn. The only British ship in the cause of the 13 percent rate of Falkland Island area during the unemployment and the 150 percent recent seizure ·was an exploratory inflation rate. The invasion itself
and Randy Fahs 
vessel from the Antarctic. came three days after some of the Spain retained control of the is­The total military force consisted worst anti-regime demonstrations 
,. lands until 1820 when the revolting of80 Royal Marines who were over­and five days before a scheduled Argentines forced Spain out of the · whelmed by the 4,000 man invasion general strike against the military mainland and the tiny Islands. In force which has since swelled to junta. The populati~n . has since 1831, the American corvette Lexi­10,000. rallied around the regime in a show ngton arrived in the Islands to Labor and Conservative govern­of super patriotism. The govern­protest the seizure ofa U.S. ship. The ments have been trying for many ment is staking its claim to the is­Lexington and in its crew succeeded years to get rid of the Falklands for lands for the slight possibility that in destroying the settlement and for­the right offer. It is amazing that the off-shore oil might exist there. cing most of the inhabitants back to British, who thought that the islands In the event of an armed con­South Anierica. were of little significance, would frontation, the Argentfnes will have The Americans departed and create such a fuss over losing them. a more than two to one numerical advantage exen if no more troops arrive. They will also need to use most oftheir badly disorganized and largely outdated military hardware against far-superior military equip­ment that the British have on the way. The English will be trying to maintain a strike force 8,000 miles from their home at a cost of about HOO million per week. One won­ders if 1,800 people and 600,000 sheep have ever seen such a military display. 
Tomorrow part two. 

Sowa-\~ 8{o~ 4-_ c~ 


Editorial Board Depanxnent~ge~ 
The Oburver is an independent newspaper published by the students of the Univcr~ity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report· cJ as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Co.nmentaries, opinions and letters are the views  /:'diliJr·iii-Cbief..............................Mk"had Monk MmwKi11K t."tlilor................ Ryan Ver Ikrkmoes J!xt•t·utit>e Neuos l:"tlilor.........................Kdli flin1 SM(.' Nt•u•s litlilor.....................Mar~rt:t fosmoc: SfH)r/.~ l:"tlilor..................... .............Chris Needks  Business MtiiiiiKI!r.............................Tony Aiello CcmtnJ//er.............................................Erk Schull Atltoerllsin~ Milnager.......................Chris Owc:n Pmtlut"lion Milnil~/('r ..................Maura Murphy Cin:ulillion Milnager ..........................Ray lnglin 
of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opimons on campus, through letters, ii encour:!Bed.  l:"tliloria/s litlilor .............................1-'aul M(·(iinn l't•i11Ures l:ililor ...................................Tari Iirown  SJ•.dem.~ MmtttKI!'........................... Hruce Oaklc:y  
P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (~19) 239-5303  1'/.x)/o l!clitor ...................................Rachd Blounl  Founded November 3, 1966  

,--~--~------=--------, 
~~()1itS:/:l:~:=i:~~S================================T=h=u=rs~da=y~,A=p=ri=I1=5=,=19=8=2==p=a=ge==s 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
lnnertube Waterpolo continues today. At 4 p.m., the "Lust Bombs" play the "Sperm Wales." At 4:45p.m., the ·:rube Trippers" take on the "Chlorinated Water Offers." The final game features "The Pack's Back" and "Water-ProofPierogies." Winners in yesterday's action were "Dead Meat and the Porkers," "Neptune's Nymphs," and "Trout Fishermen in America." A reminder: tomor­row's games have been moved up by two hours. For example, the game scheduled for 6 p.m. will now begin at 4 p.m. -The Observer 
Notre Dame's ROTC departments, which includes the Army, Navy and Air Force units, will sponsor a five-mile road race this Saturday, April 17, beginning at 10 a.m. The race course winds through the Notre Dame campus, beginning and ending at the ROTC building. All interested runners may obtain pre-registration forms at 
any of the three ROTC offices. Cost is $2.00 in advance, S3.00 the 
day ofthe race. The top three male and female finishers will receive 
trophies, and refreshments will be provided to all runners at the_end 
ofthe race. -The Observer 

Warm weather and friendly surroundings inspired the Notre Dame baseball team to a 4-1, 10-3 sweep over Wisconsin yes­terday atJake Kline Field. Steve Whitmyer, now 1-1, pitched a com­plete game in the opener and Bill Stonikas, 2-1, went the distance in the nightcap. Co-captains Chuck Tasch and Henry Valenzuela provided the firepower as Tasch drove in the game-winning RBI in game one and Valenzuela smacked a 2-run home run in the second game. The Irish try to improve their 10-7 record with a 
doubleheader today at Bethel. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC Bicycling Club will hold an or­
ganizational meeting on Tuesday, April 20 at 6:30p.m. in LaFortune's Little Theatre. All those interested are invited to attend; those who cannot attend should call Chuck Rowan at 3375. -The Observer 
The Dancin' Irish will have tryouts Sunday, April 18 through Wednesday, April 21 at 6:30 p.m. in the ACC Pit. -The Observer 
The ND Rowing Clubwill hold an election for next year's officers tonight at 8:30p.m. off the ballroom at LaFortune. All members are encouraged to attend. -The Observer 
An Tostal's ping-pong tournament pairings have been posted outside the student government offices on the second floor ofLaFortune. Competetion begins this Sunday, April 18. -The 
Observer 

Letters ofintentfor the upcoming college basketball season could be officially signed starting yesterday. Notre Dame mailed out the forms to its five recruits, Ken Barlow, Joe Price, Joe Buchanan, Tim Kempton andJim Dolan.-The Observer 
The second annual An Tostal Golf Tourna­ment will be held on Tuesday, April 20, at the Burke Memorial Golf Course, beginning at 1 p.m. Golfers can register by calling Ed Rud­dick at 8647 before Monday. Prizes will be awarded to the low score in both the men's and women's divisions, and also for the closest-to­the-pin on a selected hole -The Observer 

First Round Games 
Yeaterday's Reaulto 
Stepan 1 

Fa1r Enough over The V1llage Green Preservation 
Soc1ety byB 
Qwntln Da1ley and Four of H1s Counts over Capta1n 
L1ps and the Amaz1ng Zulu Brothers by 4 
QUintin Da1ley and the Four Felons over J1mmy s 
Vomllby9 
F1ve Pubes on the A1m over New Bomb Turk and 
the Hollywood Kn1ghts by 16 
Stepan 2 

F1ve Guys Named Dick over The Gnme that Col­
lects Under Your ToenailS by 5 
The Storekeepers Misfits over Hank Finke's 
Cousin Joe s Thighs and the Toxic Shockers by 4 
Box and One over The Uh-Oh Squad by 9 
F .. Grass, We Can Still Make the NIT over Lets 
Get Metaphysical by 14 
Stepan3 

Capta1n Kirk and the Th1ngs that Wouldn't Leave 
over The Four Flanner Phalaxes and the Holy Hose 
Head by 13 • 
Four Blowoffs and a Deep Throat over WSS by 15 
Five Average White Men over Grandpa and the Guards by 13 Fameless Finale over Sackless Wastage by 4 
Stepan4 

T aftsass over Doctors of Delusion by 1 0 
Spontaneous Cmbustion over You Won't Break a Sweat by 7 Brogan's Heroes over WizzesoiWall Street by 15 Slick S . and the Sebac1ous L.M. over Hey Larry 
Wolff, Were's Gary? ~y torfert 
Stapan5 

Death or Glory over Swynasty by 3 
Filipino Five The Fighting Lemurs by 11 On!y Games Schedulad 
See BOOKSTORE, page 10 
Classifieds  The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday. 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However. classifieds to appear in the next tssue must be received by 3 p.m. the bustness day pnor to Insertion. All classifieds must be prepatd. either in person or through the mail.  
Subleasing Campus V1ew Apt. Jun.-Aug. HELP!!NEED $ S TO GET HOME!MUST Reduced Rent Call Anne Or Mary 4637 SELL YOAX CASS-AM/FMNOTICES (SMC) STEREO/FREE TURNTABLE W/PURCHASE!-ANTHONY-3526­Furnished House for next year -6 bdrm 2 PLEAE DON'T MAKE ME STAY IN SO. HAIRCUTS! bath $540 per mo. 717 St. LoUis Call Tom BEND! ONLY $4 FOR GUYS AND $6 FOR McGann 277-3461 or 272-9299 GIRLS -­LOT OF EXPERIENCE IN Happy Hour at Pandora's every Fnday STYLING, ROTC AND PEASONALL Y 3-6 p.m. All used books 50 pet. off: all new DESIGNED CUTS FOR YOUR FACE books 20 pet. off. Th1s week only--used AND HAIR. CALL MICHOLE AT 7951 poetry & soc1ology 50 pet off 937 South WANTED Bend Ave . 233-2342 TO: Class ol '56 Graduates of NO & SMC BEEAUTIFUL FORD FIESTA 1980 w1th FROM: Jo Hennessy 5500 miles, call277-4413 n1ghts or mor· nmgsTYPING 28 years as a secretary-­RE:Party excellent typ1st. ret~red $1 00/pag~ call Phylhs 259-2501 The Class of '56 NO & SMC Ia sponsor­Ing a party In conjunction with tl)e HELP, I CAN'T SWIM, SO I NEED A TICKETSGraduating Class of '82 on Friday May RIDE TO FT. WAYNE ON APRIL 16 OR 14 at 7pm In tiM. Stanford Hall Party 17 TO SPEND EASTER WITH CAST­Room. Plea..contact Jo Hennessy at AWAY FAMILY. IF YOU CAN OFFER 291·2152 ~-Bill Hennessy at 232-4887 AID, CALL PEG AT 1274. ITS NEVER TOO LATE! Semor Formal lor details. bid for sale. Call Mike at 8741 n1ghts. Professor reqwres parHime typ1st who Expenenced typ1st w1ll do typ~ng. Call has access to Commodore CBM Model My fam1ly laughed when I told them that I 287·5162. Good speller 8032 System Send specifics to PO Box was FINALLY graduating! In fact they 77, Notre Dame, IN 46556. won t bel1eve 11 unless they see 11. So I for typing call 288-5855 need extra graduation tickets. Call 1 023 and ask for Charlie. POET RICHARD TILLINGHAST Need A1de/A1ders to Pittsburgh on WED. APRIL 21 -7:30 P.M. IN weekend ol 16-18 Please call Kevin at I VE GOT MONEY. SELL ME YOUR EX­STAPLETON LOUNGE, SAINT 1139. TRA GRAD TICKETS!!! CALL BRIAN MARY'S. BETHEREI X1928 I need a nde to Western Michigan or K zoo area. Can leave anyt1me fn. or Sat. Call I NEED TWO OR THREE TIX FOR KEN­Timo. 1782 NY ROGERS. (ON. MAIN FLOOR IF POSSIBLE) PLEASE CALL JOHN x3175 Need nders to DAYTON or RICH­MOND.IND for Apnl 16-18 Call W111 exchange BEER or$ tor 1 graduatiOn 5475(SMC) ticket. Laura 6816. LOST: A GOLD CHAIN AND CRUCIFIX AT THE ROCKNE SWIM OFFICE. NEED AIDE TO ST.LOUIS THIS ·LOST" ON TUESDAY MARCH ·23.' WEEKEND LEAVING FRIDAY OR 1982. IF "FOUND" PLEASE RETURN SATURDAY RETURNING MONDAY TO 828 GRACE HALL OR CALL JOHN WILL SHARE USUAL CALL MIKE AT PERSONALS AT 6721­NO QUESTIONS WILL BE 1214 ASKED. HAS MUCH SENTIMENTAL VALUE. 1 or 2 female roommates wanted fa·r sum­mer apartment at Campus V1ew Call LYONS HALL FOODSALES OFFERS LOST: while going to St. Ed's from the 1333or 1264 THE BEST IN FRESH, THICK CRUST library, a black cross pan with the 1mlials PIZZA DELIVERED ANYWHERE ON K.J.C. ~found plaasa call Kev1n at 8858 DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE TO SOUTH QUAD FOR THE NOMINAL DAVENPORT, IOWA, APRIL 23-25. DELIVERY CHARGE THURSDAY FOUND: Cross pencil Tues. 3-30 in E.G. WILL SHARE EXPENSES. CALL NIGHTS FROM 9:30 TO 11 AND ORDER Aud. call Mike 3242 CHERYL, 284-4528. YOURS. ALSO: EVERY WEDNUOAY NIGHT IS GUEST CELeBRITY NIGHT LOST A PAIR OF GLASSES BETWEEN Friend needs a nde from Northern llhno1s WITH WELL­KNOWN CAM,.,. PANGBORN AND THE STADIUM suburbs to SMC 4/23 Please call There­FIGURES WORKING TH1 COUN'TRRI FRIDAY NIGHT APRIL 2 NEED THESE sa at 41-4270. TO SEEIII PLEASE CALL 284-4519 MIKE GURDAK FOR U.II.O.C ...... HIE REWARDIll REALLY WANTS rrnn FOUND A bracelet at the Stanford INTERESTED IN POST-GRAD. Vegetable party. To claim call8738. • FOR SALE SERVICE OPPORTUNITY? TALK WITH JVC REP ON APA.15 IN VSO 1 :00-5:00. lost: blue backpack con1a1ning_ books, glasses. checkbook, Tl35 UmverSIIy Vinyl Jellers for UMOC ­Ugly Moon on Park Mall, Tues. 4/6 Call277-3710 USED & OUT-PRINT BOOKS bought, Campus sold, searched. ERASMUS BOOKS Tues-Sunday, 12-6 1027E. Wayne(One Fritz or Hans (or whatever your name IS)-­block south of Eddy-Jefferson ~ntersec­I'm sorry Frauline Schneider ~nter­tlon.) ruptad us at such an... ah... awkward mo­FOR RENT ment Come back soon and I prom1se I'll USED BOOK SHOP. HOURS WED .. make it good. And bring as many of your SAT SUN 9-7 CASPERSON 1303 sailor friends as you d like. We'll meet at 4 Bdrm N Shore $270 mo total. Cat.,..atty BUCHANAN AD . NILES. the Kit Kat Club. 3193228735 Call refunded --Frauhne Kost STREET NAME SIGNS-your name-any NICE HOUSES FUANISf-IED CLOSE TO legend up to 13 spaces. Looks hke Notre ND FOR NEXT YEfiA 2773604 Dame Av s1gn $17 75 & $2.00 hdtg. IN What good 1s Sitting alone 1n your room? orders add 4 pet (Allow 30 days) Life 1sn't that long a stay. Come to the Bl YOUR OWN 8088. Comlort.ola I AARON'S SIGNS, PO BO 3921, SOUTH Cabaret, old chum. L1le IS a Cabaretll .._ oompleWiy tumlahad BEND, IN 46619. TICkets on sale staning April 5, for tha '­tor 1 or e. Cloaa to campuL N.D. Student Players performance ol the Pllone 21WM:!. Spacial Discounts tor Notre Dame Broadway hit CABARET faculty on computers and penpheral FOR RENT: Pseudo-beautiful house in products, pnnters, modems, etc. Hewlett­PITISBURGHERS-THERE WILL BE A good area during summer school Packard, Zenllh. FOURWAY COM· PmSBURGH CLUB HAPPY HOUR, CHEAP-ONLY $225 PER MONTH. 232­PUTER PRODUCTS, INC., 52758 US 31 findy, THIS FRIDAY, APRIL 16 FROM 2649 North (Across from North VIllage Mail) 3:00 TO 8:00 IN FLANNER'S COM­277-7720. MONER. ELECTIONS WILL ALSO TAKE For Rent: Student Hous1ng-rated PLACE AT THIS TIME. AU. ......... superior-summer and/or I all. Clean, safe. COUCh FOR SALE-good condition­Alii ...... (BRING SOME PROOF TO laundry, wtililies. $100/mo tolal. 291­make me an offer! call Nick 272-6001 SHOW THAT YOU'RE FROM PITI5­1405 (eve) 239-6103 (day) BURGH).  Announcing the I'ITTUUIIQH CLUe HAPPY HOUII this FRIDAY. APRIL 16 FROM 3:00 TO 6:00 in Flenner's Com­moner. IIUCTION8 FOR..xTYEAR'S Ol'l'aM WILL TAU P'I.ACa AT T..TIIIR. All n.n11en-FMalllcl II you nw.-ty, you will lll.o 1M a .._ ll'lllalllqtl Club 8l*t 10 DON'T ....rrm (Bring some proof to shOw that you're from Pittsburgh and bring a friend). COMPUTER TYPING of papers. dls­sertattons, books If you must revtse, we save you t1me and money. Beauutul l1mshed work. 233-9900. ATTENTION ALL UMOC HOPEFULS· Be on your UGLIEST BEHAVIOR! TIME IS RUNNING OUT!!! SMC CLASS OF '85 Applications tor the sophomore council are avatlable tn the student acttvittes office thts week. Anyone Interested may p1ck them up. They must be returned to the Act1v1t1es The long awaited match up 1s here! Gorey va Crable Sunday at 4:30 I hate linebackers! -A1an Gorey ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING for all those Interested in working on the 1982­83 Transfer Onentatton Commtttee Mon­day. Apnl 19. 6:30 pm 1n the PW 24-hr lounge Any question~ call Anme, 2785. Watch out for M1ke Mike who? No. Mike What. M1ke what? Yeah What s h1s last name? R1ght. Look out 1aa1es, What II be kiSSing you. I m st1tl walling for you two to publish my schedule The United Nations, In conjunction with 139 Keenan Half have dealgnatad this -kas Fugly Person Week. This year's president is Regis Eugene Al­1 lison, who is also running lor UGLY MAN ON CAMPUS. Pladge your vote for Regis now. Let him know you care I He really wants It-Regis Eugene Allison lor UGLIEST MAN ON CAMPUS! Pledge your vote now I T THE FACE THAT WILL REMIND YOU OF THE SOUTH END OF A NORTH BOUND DONKEY I REGIS EUGENE AL­LISON, a.k.a. pudgy legs, lugfy,chuba, lor UGLIEST MAN ON CAMPUS I JAS ORTIZ FOR UMOCIII liE'S GOT AN UGLY APPEARANCE, AN UGLY PERSONALITY, AN UGLY MANNER TOWARDS OTHER PPEOPLE, AND TO TOP IT OFF-HE THINKS HE'S GOD! GUYS LIKE THIS MAKE THE OVERAll TITLE OF U.M.O.C. WORTHWHILEIII VOTE ORTIZ ... HE DESERVES IT? WE GOT THE BEAT! Jack1e, S1C1Iy 1S tor BABOONS No sensem1lla 1n Lans1ng. eh Gary? No money tor Mathias?$$$$$$ The show must go on. THANK YOU GIG, LAO_. and espec1ally SHERRY WARNER-you made our ··no-fnlls Easter Break a success · Pleaz RK. PJ. and JW J1mmy C you studly ME.There s noth1ng like Chllown th1s ume of spnng but I won t go wtth you unttl you give me a nng. So take your manes 0 hormal and go, go, go by your$ell to the semor formal G1na Mane  Meet poet RICHARD TILLINGHAST It Isn't n1ce and it 1sn t healthy... The young­during his poetry reading, Wed. April lady probably thought WHAT?... Dead 21 at 7:30 p.m., Stapleton Lounge or dog DA DUM DA Da da... I II fimsh them during an OPEN WORKSHOP, Aprll22 all off .. Excuse me, on my what? You at 4 p.m., alao In Stapleton. COW!.. HalteiUia,Hallelula... Hey, look, 1t s Gerry Faust .. An espresso and a brandy, please Does th1s beer conta1n NEED~D BEGINNING FRENCH allus1ons to the government .. You ve TUTOR FOR PRIVATE LESSONS been a d1sappo~ntment to me, you are a CALL D.O. sw1ne and a fraud .. I d l1ke a Jelly donut please (for Fred?)_ If they are French, 111 Dt .D. take two ... Come to bed, we II talk.. House YOU HAVE TO PASS BEGINNING hghts down please. The Pnncess of FRENCH BEFORE YOU CAN BEGIN TO Monaco has g1ven birth to oc­STUDY BRAILLE tuplets .. CUT!!!!!! THE TIDE HAS TURNED THE SUN IS' One should have a Card Index SHINING. THERE WILL BE LIFE AFTER NOTRE DAME!!! HOPE SMILES ELIMINATE BOB McALLEN. Set a 19 AGAIN!!! year-old g1rl tree. S1gnups tor THE AN TOSTAL DATING VIC TAYBACK for SENIOR FELLOW GAME Sun. Apnl 1B. 6pm, LaFortune Ballroom. Call2725 or 7892 tor 1nfo. Dad, Don t worry, Enca Is completely under my control.There once was a g~rl from B. P Whose vo1ce was as sweet as could be Kent Bogard She blew us away ROSER.To jOin Cabaret And now she s the star of N. D HEATH BAAS ARE DEFINITELY SECOND ON THE LIST. Break a leg and beware of sp1t wh1ps! LOVE,The Clueless Wonders THE FEISTY FRESHMAN. ~ S SORRY ABOUT THE CAR I don't know how to start th1s but feel that 1 must s1nce boredom re1gns supreme break-a-leg tomght thru Sun 1n Cabart.throughout. You see. Scott, welL he s one James Make 'Looeevylle, K1ntawk1eof my fnends, but one of my roommates, Proud! as well (you see, there may be a correla­tion but I Will never know smce Scotts Yours, bemg my roommate has already occurred TSA and h1s not be1ng my roommate has never occurred). Anyway. lets JUSt forget about See the TAN MASTERS grab another Scott s1nce he s only a CHEG and he Bookstore victory on Friday at 5:15 on doesn t even know Melissa He probably Lyons12. Their tans may belading, but cant even solve the El Salvador cns1s. their talent lsn'tl espec1ally s1nce he doesn t even know what an El Salvador IS. Ah. the joys ol The RESTLESS SHADE OF MOOSE technocracy.. CONTROLand the la1thful herd w1ll be gunmng tor the~r next Bookstore v1ctory today at 5:30 on Bookstore 10. See Chns 1_352 Doctor Needles. Bruce 'Moooo Oak­ley, Dave ·My Man Dz1edz1c. Ray1352135213521352 "Bru1ser lngf1n. and Greg "Hoosier Sw1ercz lock antlers w1th Love Sauce tn OOPS! OOPS! OOPS!!!!! an ep1c battle Don t moose 1t!! I MEANT· 1532 1532 Do centipedes have underarm odor, and 1f 1532 they do how do they pay tor deodorant? 1532 1532 OtT, Whether you step out of the box or 1532 move ·ctoser to the plate. don t be atra1d to bat and always sw1ng for the fences! THERE THATS GOT IT! Luv, DJH 153215321532 MMMMMMOOOOOHHH!!111 JIMMY THE GREEK PREDICTS A REGIS EUGENE ALLISON VICTORY IN FIFTEEN THIRTY TWO!! A LANDSLIDEI GURDAK, MUSAMECI· YOU DON'T HAVE A CHANCEl PlEDGE YOUR VOTE NOW -REGIS ONE FIVE THREE TWO FORUMOCI MIKE GANN OVERHEARD IN DON­BABABABABABABABABAABABABA NEAS GROVE · I M SORRY TOM. BABABABABABABABABABABABA CANN T WEIGHTUFT TODAY HAVE TO BABABABABABABABABABAB GO SHOPPING WITH MY MOTHER 15321532153215321532 15321532153215321532 To the woman from Holy Cross(SMC) 153215321532 who took her little s1ster and cousin to 1532153215321532 Stanford Hall two weeks ago What s your ONE SA SA SA FIVE BA SA SA THREE name?!? Please call John at 8688 SA SA SA TWO BA BA SA OH! SOME PEOPLE NO DISCRE­TION AMERICAN PARKING ONE THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED AND LOT????!!!??? THIRTY TWO MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM GUESS WHAT? 1532 REALL NOW, I THINK THE PROBLEM IS 1532 JUSTTHATI .I tOHHELLIJUSTTHtNK 1532 THAT I LOVE YOU II' 1532 1S32 ONE LAST TIME, I JUST CANT HELP 1532 MYSELF 1532 1532 1532 1532 OH! I 1532 JUST CAN T STOP 1532 1532 1532 1532 THIS IS ADDICTIVE (HA HA) 1-5-3-2 1532 ONE FIVE THREE TWO 1532 1532 BYE. MAINTAIN!!! BABA  


The Observer-Sports 
Thursday, April 15, 1982 -page 9 
Face Valparaiso today 
Tennis terun 'hot' over break 
By RACHEL BLOUNT 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team earned its fifth victory in its last seven starts yesterday as the Irish cru~hed Illinois-Chicago Circle by a score of 9-0 at the Courtney Tennis Center. The seven matches, all of which were played at home, were highlighted by an Irish sweep of the Notre Dame Quadrangular in which head coach Tom Fallon captured his 400th career victory. 
The Irish began their home stand on a sour note as they suffered a 5-4 setback to Purdue on April 7. Mark McMahon continued his winning ways with a tough 7-6 victory in three sets. Freshman Tom Prau also won in three sets, and Tom Robison and Mike Gibbons beat their op· ponents in straight sets to put the Irish ahead 4-2 after the singles matches. Purdue swept the doubles matches to notch the win. 
Inclement weather forced the 
Irish inside the warm confines of the 
ACC where they defeated Northern 
Illinois (9·0) and Wisconsin­
Oshkosh (8-I ) on Friday, April 9 to 
begin the Notre Dame Quadran· 
gular. Against Northern Illinois, 
Notre Dame captured all six singles 
matches eao;ily as only 11 total games were lost. The doubles teams also beat all three oftheir opponent~ in straight sets. Against Wisconsin· Oshkosh, the Irish swept the sing1'=s matches. The only loss of the m;rtch for the Irish was a tough, three-set 7-6 defeat for Mark McMahon and Paulldzik. 
The Irish clinched the tourna­
ment on Saturday, April 10 with a 
close 5-4 win over Bowling Green. 
McMahon, Pratt, Jim Falvey, and 
Tom Hartzell earned singles vic­
tories for Notre Dame, and Pratt and 
Falvey combined for a three-set win 
in doubles play. Seniors Hartzell and 
Falvey, along with McMahon and 
Pratt, were undefeated In the quad­
rangular. 

The victory was the 400th for 
head coach Tom Fallon, making him 
the winningest active coach at Notre 
Dame. The 25-year veteran coach 
ranks second in all-time career wins behind former baseball coach Jake Kline. fallon remarked, "It wasn't the 400 victories that turned my hair gray. It was the 180 losses." Head football coach Gerry faust was also on hand to congratulate Fallon after the match. "Four hundred career wins is inconceivable," stated Faust. "I'd be happy with 10 or 11 next season." 
The good fortunes of the Irish deserted them on Monday, as Wes­tern Michigan handed the team a 6-3 loss. Only McMahon, Gibbons, and Pratt could manage singles victories for Notre Dame, and the Irish dropped all three doubles contests. 
Notre Dame had no time to dwell 
on its loss as Indiana State visited the 
Courtney Tennis Center on Tues­
day. The Irish rebounded with a 7-2 
win as only one singles match and 
one doubles match were dropped, 
both in three sets. 
'The victory was the 400thfor headcoach Tom Fallon ... ' 

The Irish were spectacular on Wednesday as they crushed Illinois· Chicago Circle by a score of 9·0. McMahon extended his singles win· ning streak to 19 consecutive matches as he beat his opponent in straight sets, and he combined with Falvey to earn a straight set victory in doubles play. 
Notre Dame is now 17·7 overall and 14-6 in the conference, and Fal­lon is pleased with the team's perfor­mance thus far. "The nicest thing we had going for us today was the weather," stated Fallon, alluding to the break in the cold and snowy con­ditions that have forced the cancel­lation of some matches this spring. "We're playing well as a team, and we seem to play even better outside,'' said the veteran coach. 
Fallon is also pleased with the su­perb play of junior Mark McMahon, who has lost only one singles match 

Director of the PLO'S Palestine Information Office 
Mideast Peace 
._.,'V~~~-Tuesday, AprillO, 8:00pm Memorial library Auditorium 
e •  ND Student Players present e•  
•:  ••Opening NightTonight:  
:  SENIORSIa great way to  :  
:  start the weekend  :  
:  performed at Washington Hall  :  
:  Aprill5,16,17,~18  :  

• Thurs-Sot at 8 pm Sunday at 2pm e 
a•••••••••••••••••••••a 
all season (to Ohio State's Ernie Fer­
nandez, a U.S. Open qualifier, his first match of the season). "McMahon is going great guns, and the next few matches should tell whether Mark will receive an NCAA bid," said Fal· Ion. 
The Irish continue the spring season against Valparaiso at 3:30 
p.m. this afternoon at the Courtney courts. They must then play three straight matches on the road, includ­ing a contest at Michigan which Fal­lon says may be "the toughest match of the year." Notre Dame then plays two home and two ·away matches before closing out the season at home against De Paul. 

COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY in the City of New York 

The Summer Session of Columbia University offers studen~ the opportunity to study at the most distinguished educational institution in America's most cosmopolitan city. The challenging curriculum, outstanding faculty, excellent research facilities, and New York City itself combine to stimulate the individual and support the student's program of study. Day and evening graduate and undergraduate courses for academic credit will be given by more than forty arts and sciences departments and professional schools. Among these are: 
Languages. Arabic, Chinese, French, German, Greek, Italian, Japanese, Korean, latin, Russian, Spanish, and Yiddish. 
Focus on Design. An Intensive introduction to the design professions incl11ding architecture, historic preser· 
vation, a!ld urban design, for those considering careers in design who want to investigate their interests. 
Pre-Medical Courses. Biology; general, organic, and physical chemistry; physics. 
Study Abroad Programs. French language, art history, and philosophy in Paris; Italian language in Florence. 
Additional Courses. Studen~ may choose from courses in a variety of areas including anatomy, 
anthropology, architecture and planning, art history, astronomy, biochemistry, computer science, economics, 
engineering, English and comparative literature, film, geography, geology, history, international affairs, jour­
nalism, linguistics, mathematics, music, philosophy, physiology, political science, psychology, public health, 
religion, social work, sociology, speech, statistics, theatre arts, and creative writing. 
The summer student body is a select group of motivated men and women, three-quarters of whom attend Columbia during the academic year. College and university students are encouraged to apply for admission. Columbia's 32-acre Manhattan setting is one of America's most handsome urban campuses. All the resources of the University arc at the disposal of summer students, including the extensive library collection, computer resources, recreational facilities, social and cultural acti:vities, and residence halls. 
First Session: May 24-July 2 Second Session:}uly 12-Aug. 20 Plus special three-, eight-, and ten-week sessions. 
Send 1982 Summer Session bulletin and application to address below. Iam especially interested in _______________________________ 
Mr./Ms. __________________________________ 
Address __________________________________ 
City_________________________State___________________Zip______________ 
Send to: Summer Session, 303 Lewisohn Hall, Columbia University, New York, N.Y. 10027 
SUMMER SESSION 1982 
The Observer -Sports Thursday, April 15, 1982 -page 10 
Defeat Ashland, Wooster 
Lacrosse team gains consistancy 

New York Islander john Tonelli leaps for joy as his goal in overtime last Tuesday sends them to the divisional finals against the New York Rangers tonight. In the other finals, Quebec is at Boston, Chicago is at St. Louis and Los Angeles travels to Vancover. 
(APPhoto) 
SUMMER S!ORAGE SPACI 
Special discount for IIDISMC students · (Sx lOspace $18.80permonth) . CALL 259-0338 to BESBI.VII SPACil SIJLI' LOCK S!OI.AGII 01' IICKIRLIY 816 Bast Me Kinley Mishawaka 
Security Patrol Checks 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
It is possible that the fortunes of the Irish lacrosse team may be looking up after its victories over Ashland and Wooster Colleges last week. 
Although the team has improved greatly over the two years of its ex­istence and holds a good 5-3 record, it has played inconsistently, never putting together more than a quar­ter or two of good play. If the Ash­land and Wooster games are any indication, things may be on the up­swing for the Irish. 
"We really played aggressive defense,"said Irish coach Rich O'Leary. "We are also running better ant d pressuring better." 
For a while last Thursday in the Ashland game, it appeared that· things were no different from the team's earlier games. The Irish, who seem to make it a habit offalling be­hind quickly, were behind 2-o 
Notre Dame Chorale 

Washington Hall 
Monday April 19~ 

before they could adjust to Ashland. 
Things changed rapidly, as the Irish proceeded to reel off six straight goals before the first period ended. Kevin Smith started things rolling with a fastbreak goal. Bill Bonde scored on another fastbreak, Steve Linehan converted a pass from Mike Quinn, and the Irish soon were up by four. 
Ashland made a briefcomeback to 
get within a goal, but a goal by 
Linehan and two goals by Steve Pear­
sall put the game out ofreach. 
Bonde led the Iri,sh with three 
goals while Pearsall added two goals 
and three assists. Linehan and Mike 
Lynch each put in two goals, and 
Quinn, Smith, and Joe Hart scored 
once. In the goal, Rob Simpson 
stopped 13 shots. 

The Wooster game on Saturday 
proved to be the best game the Irish 
have played to date. They jumped 
out to a quick three-goal lead and it 
never got closer. 

"For the first time atl year,"said 
• ~ 0 • 
: The NO Student Union • 
ANYrHINC2 GROWS
• Services Commission : 
flORIST -campusdelivery
: announces • 
HOllSE PLANTS
• APPLICATIONS FOR THE CAKE'SALE : 
• CONCESSIONS ARE DUE THIS FRIDAY • 
.GIFIS.IElEFlO_RIST 
• 

WIRE FLOWERS
: Any questions call John Kelly at 8687 or 239·TI57• 
get your hall formal 
; The N DStudent Union Is seeking applications l 
corsages and bout..onnieres· 1i 4mi. N. of-Douglas
i for mOVIE COmPTROL~ER : 
free delivery to stepan center
t ~
Thlala QgteQt opportunity to line up Qposition 
----...----------------------­
t ..PREsENT THIS COUPON·; . T
f ".-~-~Qt the Student Union for the next achoolyear. i 
I -· I
I 25% discount on all house ~lants :
t Bualneaa mQjora encouraged to apply : I' I 
I SMC 1
i •·. 
Call ffilke Jclna : ~ 239-7757 or 6770 orleaveyournQme J 
I . . 
I t with the Student Union Sec,.tary 
I ~--------------------------· 
~...................•.......... 
continuedfrom page 8
.......6 

Mackm High over Reckless Drivers by 2 
Mt. St. Helen's Ski Team over The Nestle Crunch Bars by 10 Only Games SchedUled 
s.p.n7 

No Games Schedulea 
....6 

No Games Scheduled lcloll.-.11 But Can She Go To Her Left over Rolls Royce and His Entrepreneurs by 11 Four Hoosier Haters and a Hoosier over Chompy's Chunks by t6 That's Right, Wez Bad II over Sam Gilbert's Free Clinic, 26-24 (OT) Hang on Hover Rock and the Four Bricks by 13 
~10 

Austrian Deportees over Abraham Men by 10 String MusiC, The Nightmare Boys and Their Phan­tom Decoys over Bookstore for Bonzo by 5 Stan's Running Bungunners over John Belushi and the Not-Ready-For-Die-Time Players by 7 Second Coming of the Embarrassing Stains over Barnacle Bill and His Seamen by 11 Lyone11 NYAAWover 4Q2 by 8 
Wildcats II over Th'e Beetween lhe Covers Gang by 
16 San Quintin Dailey overTake No Prisoners by 6 The Neplusultras over Lex Fori by 9 
Lyone12 Four Jerl<s and a Dribbler over Phlegm by 6 Natalie Wood Swim Team over liXIX Vermin Style 
by3 Shysters over Madmen by 12 The Avengers over Ziggy Stardust and the Spiders 
from Mars by 17 END OF ROUND ONE 
1117.......ellmlneted 
266remeln 

SECOND ROUND QAMIS Today'• Sc-ule 
Stepan1 4:00-Five Easy Pieceoyv. Kamikazes 4:45-Big Organ and the Bouncing Balls v. Fast 
Eddie and the Early Squirts 

5:30 -Assassins v. Unidentified Aying Pengutn Trotters 6:15-T.B. Express II v. McNamara's Band 
Stepan2 4:00-Beer Bongs v. We're Short But Slow 
4:45 -Milch·s and Rich's Sons of B .. v. The Blowoffs 
5:30 -Moon's Goons v. Bill Pucell and the 
Voyageurs -6:15·-..:: Grab Your Ankles v. Were Playing for a Michelob Light 
Stepan3 

4:00 -Recycled Backboard Trash v. Sam Gil­bert's Coathanger Kids 
4:45-R. Cranium v. Bob anctOoug and Three of their Favorites 
5:30 
-Captain Supply Side and the Kool Aid Kids 

v. 
2-C Loser t s 6:15-Ryan·s Hopes v. Oscar Mayer and Bagel 


Abusers Stepan4 

4:00 -Digger's NIT Bids v. 14th St. Aircraft Car­riers 
4:45-Eilleen O'Reilly lifers v. Duck Williams and the Danon Gang 
5:30 -General Murphy and his Confederates v. SonsofPele 
6:15 -ClubSpecial v. Five UnchasteCollege Kids StepanS No Games Schadulad Stepan& No Games Scheduled Stepan7 No Games Scheauled Stepan& 
No Games Scheduled • Bookatore9 

4:00 -Hungry Rats on a String v. The Smooth Ones 
4:45 -II s a Moracle We Got This Far v. Geritol Express and Four Lads 
272-8820 
k IRONWOOD 
at 

TOLL ROAD 
-DIRECTLY 
EAST of CAMPUS 
O'Leary, "we p1ayed three good 
quarters." 
The score was 1-1 when Unehan 
scored on a fastbreak, Bonde shot 
one in from outside, and Lynch 
added another. The half ended with 
a three-goal margin and the Irish 
slowly stretched it out in the second 
half. 
Linehan was most impressive as he scored five times and assisted on another score. Bonde contributed three goals to the cause. Lynch scored twice and Dan Pace and Pear­sall scored once. Simpson made 13 saves for the second straight game. 
STICK CHECK5 -The Irish leave on a three-day road trip t\J\lay. They will take on division rival Ohio State · and travel to Kenyon College on Saturday. The next home game is against Dennison on Wednesday, April 21. The Irish are still un­defeated in their division and hold a 
3-1 league record 
.Bookstore 
5:30-That's Right. Wez Bad II v. Woody and the Four Splinters 6:15-flea Rummers v Flash and the Gash , Bool<atore 10 
4:00 -Lick My Greasy B .. v. Even Less Jack­sonless Five 
4:45 -Cooz v. The BlOated Stomachs 
5:30 -Restless Shade of Moose Control v. Love Sauce 6:15-Beecher Tool and Doe v. Who the Hell Ate 
These Guys Lyons 11 
4:00 -Doctors of Layup v. Cnme Doesn't Pay 
4:45 :-Four Whales and the Grabber v. Shooting Wads 
5:30 -MBA Fove v. Nestle's Crunch and the Bloated Stomachs· 6:15-UpandComingv. B.F andlheRearenders 
Lyona12 4:00-Sumus Viri v. Magott's Magotts 
4:45 -OFF v. Fat Eddoe and the Boys that cOme from Behind 
5:30 -Hey, Where are the WMe Women At'! v. Proverbial Societal Sponges II 
6:15 -Quinton Dailey and Four Cocky Guys v. Comin· atYa 
• • • Wotnen 
contin'uedfrom page 12 
"Better Motions" gained a victory by 
forfeit. "The First Round Losers" 
proved to be just that as they never 
showed up for their game. 
Moving on to yesterday's games, 
the 'scoring combination of Patty 
Talamo and Jan Schlatf helped "The 
Dometrotters" over "Bent Again" 
21-9. Captain Talamo and Schlaf 
have great co-ordination at the 
guard slots. They coyld become 
tough to deal with as the tourney 
moves on. 
Stella Ossello turned in a stellar performance with eight points as "Break in Away" killed "The Boun­cers" 21-1. "The Bouncers" won't give up though. They are telling their fans to look for them under a new name next season after they are able to practice a little. 
In a long and tough battle, "The 
10:30 Shuttle" lost to "The Big Macs" 21-11. Captain Annie Day led / all scorers with eight baskets. 
Yet another disappointment, "Pand and the Lost Ewes" never , showed at Stepan thus defaulting their game to "The Pointless Sis­ters." 
Women's Bookstore Basketball contioues tomorrow with six more teams competing. Play begins at 
2:30 at Stepan. Following tomor-' row's games, the girls will get a three day break before starting round two on Monday. 
So if tomorrow is another beauti· ful day (and even if it isn't), why don't you stroll on over to Stepan and catch some af the Women's Bookstore play. You might be surprised with some great plays and great players that you hadn't ex­pected. I hope to see you there! 
---~-------­
------~-----------------------------------------------------~---------------~----------­
Ihe~r====================================== 
~~4()[~~-~============================T=h=ur=s=da=y='=Ap=r=il=l=5=,=19=8=2===p=ag=e=l=l
Molarity 
11115 NIT!CLC: 5A~ -n!AT HE'S 1\II..LED -4 JJceE.IJ 

IT's UP TO )Q'J, MR. I'M TAKING 
Pl<l35f{}ENT.' «!HilT A NAP IN IS WR POS!Tiav THE aJHI7!3 
!lOW? H:XJSC SITIJA-





The Daily Crossword 
. ' . 
I 
~ 
All Rights Reserved 


, ........................................ l 
: n 0 Stu0€nt Umon announc€s • : ffiOVI€ lott€RY applicatiOnS + 
+ an€ ava1lasl€ at 2n0 ~LOOQ StuO€nt uno1n O~~IC€. : : anyQu€stlonscontact ~~ : 
: 4•naRohR€R : : at 239-7757 :
• 
: appllcat•o,ns must B€ 10 to th€ •: + S€CR€taRY s BOX BY SunOay, apQillS . +1••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••1 
Michael Molinelli 
TH& 5ITIJifT10N RIXJM.' flrl fif"IU.. 8lJT YOU'RE: 5lJPP05tP 11/ii!T/NG FVR 70 8t ALOFT IN 7H& NANCY 70 
NATlONAL. E:Ma<fif~Cr FINISH PACX­AIR/JOI?NE (1)NTl?a. ING,ANO..OH. 
POSt BY "-. NO! I J/ET MJIIJl 7001< A Dl-

NO! C1'ION KLINY,·
I 'IOU CAN COME ALOA\C.. 
ACROSS 1 Sleazy "' 6 Goby 30 Bakery 
10 Blind as-fare 14 Poet Doo­33 Sign up for little 34 Urge 
15 Subter-35-Canals ranean 36 "-Bade" entrance 37 Point 
16 Poi base ofview 17 Projecting 38 Daze 
window 39 English 18 Festivity title 19 Preminger 40 Hot cloth 20 "Harper application 
Valley" 41 Vaquero's org. gear 21 Culture 42 Wrestling 
medium tandems 23 Lease money 44 Portrayer 25 A tsar of Cyrano 26 Utopian 45 Mindful 
Wednesday's Solution 




Jeb Cashin 
.•• WHAT GOOD I~ ~ITTIN& .I 
l ALONE IN )()UR f.O-W­C~M f ... ---~""--'------..l 
46 Christmas 13 Cat's·paw 47 Ancient 22 Needlefish Roman coin 24 Creel 49 Trigonom­writhers etry term 25 List part 50 Bend the 26 "Forsyte 
head Saga" 53 -years heroine . (aged) 27 Fewest 54 Hawser 28 Forster's 56 Out of the "A Passage 
mainstream to-" 58 Circlet. 29 Astrolo· 59 "The -that ger'S OCCU· 
men do ..." pat ion 60 Lawmaker 30 Dicegame 61 Nervous 31 Way 62 Solicitous 32 Sound 63 Linen room device 
of yore 34 Feather 37 Shatner TV 
DOWN vehicle 1 Hew 38 Title for 2 New Orleans a king 
trumpet man 40 Irish John 3 A Kazan 41 Set free 4 Summer 43 Nasal 
drink 44 Sport 5 Long parley 46 Capitulate 6 Polytheist 47 Dull one 7 Hebrew 48 Arthurian 
month lady 8 RSVPword 49 Pleasure 9 Hoagy's hit drive 
10 Like some 50 Long river music 51 Bouquet 11 Military 52 Gainsay award 55 Egg: pref . 12 Ionian 57 Plant by gulf scattering 


Campus 
• 
....:.. Advance Registration, Registration for sum­mer and fall of'82 

•12 
p.m. -Discussion, "'A Brown Bag" U.S. Im­migration Policy, Congressman Romano 1.. Mazzoli, Room I 0 I Law School 

•12: 
15p.m. -lecture, Regulation of Eucaryotic Gene Expression, Prof. Bert O'Malley, M.D., Room 127 NSH 

•2:30 
p.m. -Conference, Ideas ofOrder: Music, Mathematics, and Medieval , Prof John Benton, California Institute of Technology, Annenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by Alice Tully Endowment for the Fine Arts 

• 
3:30 p.m. -Tennis, ND Men vs. Valaraiso, Courtney Courts 

•4: 
15p.m. -lecture, An Overview of the Use of Media in College Teaching, Sr. Elaine des Rosiers, Room 114 CCE 

•6 
p.m. -Meeting, Students interested in fall '82 internships, Student Activities Conference Room, Le Mans, SMC, Sponsored hy Counseling and 



Career Development Center 
•6:30 
p.m. -Workshop, Office Politics, Kitty Ar­nold, Student Affairs Conference Room, Le Mans, SMC, Sponsored by Counseling and Career Development Center 

•7 
p.m. -lecture, Britain, Ulster Unionists and the I.R.A., Prof. Thomas Hachey , Marquette, Science Hall, Room 105, SMC, Sponsored by His­tory Department 

•7 
p.m., 9:30p.m. -Film, "Dr. Strangelove", Car­roll Hall, Sponsored by SAPB, U.OO 

•7:30 
p.m. -Meetin g, Open Meeting on Draft Registration, Hayes Healy, Sponsored by Campus Ministry 

•7:30 
p.m. -Film, "EI Salvador: Revolution or Death", LaFortune Little Theatre , Sponsored by 


D.S.A. ND/SMC 

•7:30 
p.m. -Faculty Senate Meeting, Seminar Room 202, CCE 

•8 
p.m. -lecture, U.S. Immigration Policy and its Impact on Central America, Congressman Romano Mazzoli, Galvin Life: Sciences Auditorium 

•8 
p.m. -lecture, Scientific Investigation of the Shroud of Turin. Robert Muggil, Library Auditorium, Sponsored hy ASME 

•8 
p.m. -Play, "Cabaret", Washington llall, Sponsored hy ND Student PI'\yers S:\.00 

•8 
p.m. lecture, Contemporary Latin American Catholicism: Changes and Challenges, Dr. Otto Maduro, I I 7 Haggar Hall 

•8 
p.m. -New Music Festival, Little Theatre, Sponsored by St. Mary's .Musk Departmem 


T.V. Tonight 
7:00p.m.  16  MASII  
22  CBS Nt·ws  
28  Joker's Wild  
34  Tht· MacNcii/J.chrt·r Rcport  
7:30p.m.  16  Tht• Muppct Show  
22  Family l'cud  
28  Tic Tac Dough  
34  Straight Talk  
8:00p.m.  16  l'amt·  
22  Magnum 1'.1.  
28  No ~oap Radio  
34  Sneak Prt·views  
8:30p.m.  28  Mork and Mindy  
34  LaM Chance Garage  
9:00p.m.  16  Dift'rcnt Strokes  
22  Cagney and l.at·cy  
28  9to'i  
34  Golden Age ofTl'lcvision  
9:30p.m.  16  Gimmc a Break  
28  Taxi  
!O:OOp.m.  16  Hill Street Blues  
22  Knms Landing  
28  20/20  
34  Michigan Outdoor~  
!0:30p.m.  34  Training Dogs the Woodhouse Way  

Live Jazz Bond and Screwdriver special soud good? 


Thursday, April 15, 1982 -page 12
S_~orts 
Movesto linebacker 
Smithstarts tnaking tackles 
ByJOHN GATES 
Sports Writer 
,.Faced with the likelihood of playing his sophomore season at tail­back behind Phil Carter and Greg Bell, Chris Smith startled the Notre Dame coaching staff this winter by requesting a tryout at the outside linebacker position. 
Now, halfway through the spring practice sessions, Smith appears to have won a sopt on the defensive 
unit,  and  ha,~  delighted  both  the  
coaches  and  himself  with  his  
progress.  

Spring Football '82 
"I started slow in making the transition," Smith says. "But everyday I'm learning more and ~ore and Ive gotten to the point now where I feel fairly comfortable on the field." 
Linebacker coach George Kelly echoes Smith's statements. "He's just making outstanding progress," comments Kelly. "He's shown a great amount of tenacity and a wil­lingness to learn the position. Besides that, he's so doggone strong that you know he can only get better 
and better." 
Smith lettered as a member of the offensive backfield last year, and the 6-2, 220-pounder impressed all with his combination of strenth and speed. The former prep All­American from Cincinnati's LaSalle High School saw action in seven games, averaging 3.9 yards a carry. But, playing behind two of the best runners in the country, Smith knew 
his action on limited this fall. 
the field would be 


and I appreciate the fact that I got a 
lot ofplaying time as a freshman," he 
offers. "But I felt I could contribute 
more to the team at another posi­
tion. I played linebacker as a junior 
in high school, so I'm not totally un­
familiar with the spot." 
Does he plan to stay there 
throughout next fall? 
"Depending on how far I progress and how much I learn," continues the Flanner Hall resident. "I don't think I'll be moving back to the of­fense. Right now, I feel great where I am." 
"I would hope he'll stay at linebacker," admits Kelly. "The only situation I can see that would cause him to return to tailback would be injuries, God forbid, at that position. With the addition of several fresh­men running backs and his perfor­mance this spring, however, I look for him to be playing linebacker next fall.' 
Presently, Smith has to settle for splitting time with sophomore Joe Bars on the second team behind junior Rick Naylor. But given his physical abilities and his tendency to pull surprises, look for Smith to be on the turf a lot next year -either making tackles or eluding them. 
Anewrecord 
Round one ends in Bookstore 

-~ 
IJy BRIAN REIMER 
Sports Writer 
A new individual scoring record, the emergence of a new bookstore power, and the clearest weather of the tournament highlighted the con­clusion of round one for Bookstore XI. 
Commissioner Emeritus Rob Simari broke a six-year-old record when he scored 18points yesterday. Unfortunately, it was not enough for "Sam Gilbert's Free Clinic" as they fell to "That's Right, Wez Bad," 26­
24. Mike Borders had set the pre­vious mark in 1976 with 17 baskets. Simari was 18-of-38 from the field. Dave Buseck led the winners with 
"! 1 points. 
The "Shysters" established them­selves as a title contender with a 21­9 trouncing of the "Madmen." Four of the "Shysters" played college bas­ketball before coming to Notre Dame for law school. Mike Kelley led all scorers with six points. Jeff Ray and Mark Spitlerchipped in with five buckets apiece for the victors. 
In other Bookstore action, the "Neplustras" defeated "Lex Fori," a team that reached the final 64 last year, 21-12. Ron Waytula's early layups put the winners in front, and they never trailed. Waytula le.d his team with eight points. Dave "Ike" Hemminghaus put in six. Kevin Kel­ly led "Lex Fori" with five baskets." 
Mackin High in Washington, D.C., has provided Notre Dame with such players as Cecil Rucker, Duck Wil­liams, and the patron saint of 
INSIDE: 
Lacrossep., 10 
Tennisp. 9 Bookstorep. 8 
Bookstore Basketball himself, Austin Carr. Mackin alumni Dave Washing­ton and Mike Boyd led "Mackin High" to a narrow 21-19 victory over the Reckless Drivers, with a combined total of eight points. Joe Hunckler led their individual scoring with seven buckets. · 
Bookstore Basetball is known not only for having quality teams, but also for having some humorous entries. Attired in pajamas, a trio of women led the "Between the Covers Gang" to a 21-5 defeat at the hands of "Wildcats II." The game was witnessed by a partisan crowd which included two teddy bears. Ann Hardie scored two baskets, the second on an ingenious piggy-back layup. Tom Brady led the winners with a 8-of-13 shooting perfor­mance. 
In another humorous encoun­ter,"Ziggy Stardust" made their bid for the Hoosier Award, as a team entrie. The players, dressed in punk costumes, combined for a sizzling 4­of-55 day from the field in their loss to the"Avengers." John McNamara was the leading individual can­didate, shooting 0-for-14. Jim Clarke led the"Avengers" with ten points. 
Yesterday's action completed the first round, the field being reduced to 256. The second round will last three days, after which each round will only take a day to play. Some of the top teams will be in action tomorrow, including "Red Rum­mers," "Even LessJacksonless Five," "Cooz," "Assassins," "T.B. Express II," and "Ryan's Hopes." 
Unfortunately, a team had to be disqualified from the tournament yesterday. "Hey Larry Wolfe,. Where's Gary?" had their 21-9 win over "Slick S ...." reversed when it was discovered that they had a player whose only association with the university was as an alumnus. 
"It's unfortunate that we have to 
disqualify such teams," said Com­
missioner Dave Dziedzic. "But the 
rules are clear. Only graduate and 
undergraduate Notre Dame-SMC 
men, women, faculty and staff are 
eligible. Incidents such as today's 

could be avoided if the captains would consult me concerning 
Wontensdivision
eligibilityprior to the game." BOOKSTORE BRIEFS -Commis­sioner Dziedzic and his staff report 
ofBookstore opens 
that, with a few minor exceptions, 
the tournament is running smooth­ly ...the commissioner would also like to remind all teams on the high­er bracket that they MUST where light colored shirts to play .... Fur­thermore, all teams must provide the scorekeepers with a spotter before their game can begin. 
ByJANE HEALEY 
Sports Writer 
What more could you possibly ask for? The scene was perfect -beauti­ful spring weather and the beginning 
Irish home opener first night game 
By DAVE DZIEDZIC 
Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame Stadium, the Wrigley Field ofcollege football, will break tradition on September 18, as Notre Dame will open its season against Michigan at 8 p.m., ABC sports announced yester­day. 
The game, which will be the first night game ever at the Stadium, 
will be played under a 550,000 portable lighting system which will 
be installed especially for the event. 
According to John Heisler, Notre Dame's assistant sports in­formation director, the lights will be installed by Musco Sports Lighting, Inc., ofMuscatine, Iowa 
The Irish and the Wolverines were scheduled to play on the afternoon ofSept. 18, but both schools agreed to move the kickoff time at the network's request. 
"This will be a landmark event here at Notre Dame," Heisler said. "Musco sold the idea to the network and to several universities. A representative of the company was at a recent meeting of the Big Ten schools." 
ABC will pay the S50,000, according to Heisler. "They (ABC) cannot directly employ the company because ofsome union agree­ments," he said. 
Heisler said that the system will be erected on the Thursday prior to the game so that the teams can practice under the new conditions. "We've been assured that the lights are ofhigh enough quality to provide adequate conditions," he said. 
The game is ABC's final "special" game announced under terms 
ofthe four-year, 5263 million contract for NCAA football telecasts. 
CBS also is broadcasting NCAA games this fall and has not an­
nounced its final "special" game -either a prime-time or holiday­
weekend telecast. 
The starting time will allow ABC to present the contest as the "late game" ofits two telecasts on that day. 
of another great Women's 
Bookstore Basketball tournament. 
Out of the 32 teams involved in 
this years Bookstore, three teams 
have been singled out as the inside 
favorites. 
"Hey Lets Play to 11," with its cen­ter core intact from last year, added sophomores Carol Comito and Mary Beth McManus to its impressive ros­ter. This team could possibly be the fastest and most powerful scoring team in the tourney. They displayed 
their talents yesterday by killing "The Basket Cases" with a score of 21-1. 
"HotstuffiV," led by seniors Missy Conboy andJan Yurgealitis, is anoth­er team to be reckoned with. Con­boy had 10 points and Yurgealitis six points leading their team to vistory over "The Clueless Wonders" also played yesterday. 
The third team picked with cham­
pionship potential is "Two Lumps 
and Three Pups." Unfortunately, no­
thing is really known about this team 
right now. Time will tell. 
Recapping Tuesday's opening day 
action, Liz Jantz poured in an 
amazing 11 baskets as "More than 
Meets the Eye" downed "Kill" by a 
score of 21-10. 
"The Fabulous Five" lived up to 
their name as they demolished "The 
Hosers" 21-4. Jean Marie McGinnis 
topped all scores with 10 points. 
In another blowout yesterday, "The Diehards" defeated "The Mauve Pallettes," 21-2. They may have lost the game, but they sure looked like they had fun. If Bookstore had an award to give to the most funny and enjoyable team to watch, "The Mauve Pallettes" would have easily won it. 
A disappointment to the fans and other teams, and something you don't like to see in Bookstore, 
See WOMEN, page 10 




