----------------------~---------------·--------------------~------~ ~~-~-~ ~ ---­
, , ,Barbara Mandrell-page 6 

VOL. XVII, NO. 11 the independent ~tutknt new~paper ~erving notre Jame and ~;aint mary's MONDAY, SEPTf'MBER 13, 1982 
2civilians killed 
Fighting flares in Beirut 
BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP)-Lebanese returned machine-gun fire and wit­against such disruptets," an army of­soldiers and police, coming to the nesses said an ammunition truck ex­ficial was quoted as saying on the aid of an ambushed of Sunni Mos­ploded, setting at least two French state television. lems, traded machine-gun and ar­vehicles on fire. In a separate incident, Lebanese tillery fire with leftist militia men in The French Embassy was closed security forces intercepted a group west Beirut Sunday in a four-hour for the weekend, and officials could of car thieves belonging to another 
battle that drove French not be reached for comment. leftist militia in West Beirut and one peacekeepers from the area. It was the first major flareup since bystander was killed in the ensuing 
The army later announced it had the Lebanese army took over posi­shootout, the state-run radio quelled the first major flareup since tions previously held by the reported. government forces deployed in Palestine Liberation Organization The 800-man contingent of Moslem west Beirut, and the state­and its Lebanese Moslem leftist French paratroopers and legion­run television quoted an official as allies. naires were part of an international saying the government would strike "The Lebanese army will execute force that supervised the PLO with an "iron fist" against future at­its security functions no matter what withdrawal from Beirut. About 800 tacks. the difficulties and ... we warn that U.S. Marines and 530 Italian 
Police sources and news reports we will strike with an iron fist sharpshooters left last week. said two bystanders and one Lebanese soldier were killed in the battle. 
In eastern Lebanon's volatile 

ND security plansBekaa Valley, meanwhile, Israeli warplanes raided Syrian positions for the third time in five days and 
strategy tor night game
destroyed a sixth SAM-9 anti-aircraft 
missile battery, according to the Is­
By VIC SCIULLI The St. joseph County Sheriffs raeli military command in Tel Aviv. 
Assistant News Editor posse will provide 6 teams of 2 The Israelis reiterated their 
horse-mounted officers which will demand that Syria keep the missiles 
Law enforcement agencies from patrol all the parking lots during the out of Lebanon, and a seni9r official 
Indiana, South Bend, St. Joseph game. Three cars will be assigned to warned: "Israel will not tolerate a 
County and Notre Dame met late campus roving; another car will be war of attrition, because we will not 
last week to Jiscuss in more detail on general roving patrol in the area allow one to develop." 
security measures f0r this Saturday's The Notre-Dame security office 
The Lebanese television station 

Notre Dame-Mich1gan game. has worked with the rectors' com­quoted the army official as saying 13 mittees in establishing security for
The security strategy for the game government soldiers were wounded has four aspects: parking, residence residence halls. Each hall will have 

in the battle in west Beirut, but there halls, stadium patrol, and the restricted entrance from 7 a.m. to 2 were no casualties among the surrounding neighborhood. a.m. the day of the game. Maids and French troops, who withdrew when Starting tomorrow, several of the janitors from building services will the fighting started. parking lots in the area of the be at entrances to check those enter­It was not known ifthere were any ing the building. Regular hall
stadium, including C1 and D1, will 

militia casualties. The state radio monitors from the female residence
be "cleaned out" to make room for 

said the leftist guerrillas belonged to dorms also will be employed for the
the mobile lighting units which will an obscure group known as game.
illuminate the stadium. Cars in these "Partisans of the Revolution." According to campus security
lots will be moved to Green Field. The Lebanese television station Some cars will be moved to the director Glenn Terry, there will be said the battle flared after the South C 1 lot until the morning ofthe few security additions inside the 
militiamen fired on a group of Sunni stadium. Regular eight hour shifts A freshman was bung in effigy outside of
game. Buses and recreational 

Moslems traveling east to the Chris­Cushing Hall Friday marking the first "Emil"
vehicles will be diverted to the east will be lengthened to 12 hours. 
tian mountain town ofBikfaya 11:) pay side ofthe campus. The gate attendants will move ''Ohno!'' quizfor the University's freshmen chemistry stu­respects to President-elect Bashir dents. "Emil" is Dr. Emil T. Hofman, professor of
Approximately 70 cars will have down onto the field after the start of 
Cbemstry and Dean of the Freshman Year of

Gemayel. Juniper Road passes and will park on the game and will move back after 
Studies. 7 point quizzes, commonly referred to as

The radio said soldiers and police the game is over. Two security ot:
the West Side of Juniper. Reserved 
"Emils" are given each Friday. (Photo by Scott

arrived and blasted the militia posi­
parking will be provided through tions with rocket-propelled See GAME, page 4 Bower)
special requests by the faculty and 


grenades and artillery. The leftists the Morris Inn. 
Flanner resident dies in accident 
Hospital in South Bend. A resi­Sophomore Kevin Emery died dent of Flanner, Hannau suffered
and another student was injured a concussion and a bruised lung
early Sunday in a one-car in the accident.
automobile accident near the in­A memorial service for Kevintersection ofJuniper and Douglas Emery will be held ThursdayRoads. 
night at 10 in the Flanner Pit.
Dean of Students James Roemer said Emery was travell­ing north onJuniper when his car swerved to the left and across the berm on the west side ofJuniper at about 2:27a.m. 
The car travelled about 100 yards through a brush area and rolled over, stopping short of a utility pole. 
Emery was pronounced dead­on-arrival at Memorial Hospital. Father John Van Wolvlear ad­ministered last rites. 
Emery was a business .major from Mission Hills. Kansas. He lived in Flanner Hall. 
Sophomore Robert Hannau, a pas~enger in Emery's car. i~ listed in ~table condition at Sl. Joe 


Vacationers killed 

Train crashes into bus 
PFAEFFIKON, Switzerland (AP)­on both sides of the track embank­died." A locomotive plowed into a bus ment," said Christoph Zuppinger, a Aerial photographs of the scene loaded with West German local resident who arrived on the showed that the first two cars ofthe 
vacationers at a rail crossing Sunday, scene shortly after the collision. three-car train derailed into a field, slicing it in two and scattering the "Many of the bodies were badly well ahead of the road crossing, an burned and bloated."
charred bodies of passengers on indication the bus had been pushed both sides of the tracks. Police said some distance. Little resembling a
Police said 38 of the bus passen­were

at lea~t 38 people were killed on the gers were killed. All aboard bus could be seen. One striped
believed to be West Germans from
bus. 
crossing barrier could be seen point­
the Boeblingen area, about 13 miles
Officials said the barriers were not ing into the air in what appeared to
from Stuttgart in southwestern Ger­
down when the bus passed through many, but their exact number was be its open position.
a level crossing about 12 miles south not known.

of Zurich in the early afternoon. A resident near the scene of the Zurich police Maj. Eugen Thomann said at least nine people accident, who asked not to be iden­Thomann said it was not known were injured, including the train en­tified, said the local train usually whether the signal lights at the gineer and six train passengers. He passes the crossing at a speed of "at crossing had been activated. He said said at least one bus passenger least 60 kilometers (37.2 mph)," which he said was the rail speed
the engineer apparently saw the bus survived and the signalwoman, ahead of him and appears to have whose duties include lowering the 
limit until the town's outskirts, where the speed limit goes up to 62
crossing barriers when a train ap­
applied the emergency brake about 
mph.
proaches, also was injured.
160 feet before impact. 

Thomann said the bus and the first Most of the injuries were superfi­Regional hospitals were alerted to car of the electrically-powered train cial, but the engineer was clear beds for the injured and am­burst into flames on impact. The hospitalized in serious condition, bulances and firefighters raced to 
the scene. Bodies were taken to theblaze engulfed a nearby signal house Thomann said. 
town's police headquarters. await­anti killed one railroad worker "The train whistled, which was ing identification.

inside, while another worker, a strange because it usually doesn't," woman. managed to escape,.he said. said a witness interviewed on Swiss Thomann said the bus was regis­"Burned bodies, interspersed radio. "Then, there wa~ a hig bang, tered in the West German town of with pieces of luggage. sandwiches and ~uddenly there were flames Sindelfingen, near Boeblingen, its and running shoes were scattered everywhere. Almost all in the bus point oforigin. 
r 
~ 
t 
•
L 


News Brie/§ 
By The Obser!'er and The Associated Press 
An unidentified male rushed past the LeMans parietals desk at Saint Mary's early yesterday morning and was chased for approximately a half hour before being nabbed in the LeMans Chapel. Several witnesses said the intruder was an intox­icated Notre Dame freshman, although this could not be confirmed by official sources. According to Michelle Boxell, who was working the parietals desk at the time, the man entered LeMans Lobby at 
approximately 1:1 5 a.m. with two friends. Boxell said the three loitered in the lobby for a short time before the one man rushed past the desk and up the stairs to the upper floors of the dorm. Security guards and several students chased the man on the third and fourth floors. At one point a witness saw the man standingon a desk looking in the transom ofone ofthe third floor rooms. Another student said the man knocked on her door and asked "What time is it?" The man was eventually cornered in the Chapel and taken into custody by 
Security.-The Observer 
Two Dillon Hall students were robbed at gun­
point early Friday morning in South Bend. Michael Larkin, a senior Engineering student, and his roommate were walking toward their car in the 1200 block of Howard when two men, one armed, demanded their wallets. The wallets contained 520 in cash. Neither Larkin nor his roommate were injured. The two men fled on foot. 
-The Observer 
The newMiss America,a 25-year-otd blonde who began singing in a shower stall and would most like to meet entrepreneur Ted Turner, says she wants to become a role model to other young women. "I want to set an example," said Debra Sue Maffett, the former Miss California, after just one hour of sleep yes­terday. The blue-eyed, 115-pound graduate of Lamar University in Beaumont, Texas, wearing the rhinestone-studded crown she received the night before, then set offon her first round ofpersonal appearances as Miss America 1983. She attended a condominium ground-breaking ceremony in Atlantic City and prepared for a drive to New York and appearances there Monday. Miss Maffett, of Anaheim, Calif., who as Miss America gets a 520,000 scholarship, should make more than SlOO,OOO from public appearances, model­ing, and performances. Her business manager, Bob Bryan, said Miss Maffett is booked solid, working every other day through Christmas.-AP 
Although experts working with the dairy in­
dustry "tried to get the PCBs out of the milk with the least possible publicity and the least financial damage to the dairymen involved," many farmers have suffered heavy losses, Hill said. In addition, to replace expensive silos, thousands ofgallons of milk were dumped or destroyed and contaminated cows were sold at cut-rate prices. "We're kind ofthe victims in this thing, and we've got hurt," said Tim Hastings, whose family owns a dairy farm near Elnora in southwes­tern Indiana. The Hastings family abandoned two silos soon after their milk was barred from the market for six weeks in 1976. They filed suit against Monsanto, which manufactured the PCBs but argued that the potential danger of PCB contamination hasn't been proven scientifically. The family agreed to settle out of court for about 55,000. "That didn't come close to covering the costs," Has­tings said. "We had to remortgage everything. You never really recuperate from something like this." -AP 
Typhoonjudy roared through central Japan Sun­
day, cutting a deadly and destructive swath with waist-high flooding, 
huge landslides and 79 mph winds that left thousands homeless, 
transportation paralyzed and dozens of people dead or injured. Au­
thorities reported at least 11 deaths and 78 injuries. Seventeen 
people were missing and feared swept up in the swirling flood­
waters. Downtown Tokyo was severely stricken. The National 
Police Agency said 57,000 homes were flooded in 21 states across 
centralJapan. At least 17 people were reported missing. Air, rail and 
road traffic came to a near standstill, officials said. They said more 
than 50,000 policemen and soldiers were mobilized for rescue 
work. In downtown Tokyo, the Kanda River overflowed late Sunday, 
flooding more than 2,000 homes in the bustling Shinjuku entertain­
ment district. "The water level in some places came to my neck," a 
policeman on the scene said. -AP 
Bill Monroe, the father of bluegrass music, had a birthday celebration that he won't soon forget. The 71-year-old Ken­tuckian got to listen to some music for a change as 25,000 lovers of bluegrass sang happy birthday to him Saturday during the Kentucky Fried Chicken Bluegrass Music Festival in Louisville. Each summer, Monroe plays host to his own festivals at Beanblossom, Ind. Thousands offans converge upon his 94 acre farm in the tiny south­ern Indiana town to see and hear the man credit with creating bluegrss music. Claudia Sanders, wife of the late Colonel Harland Sanders, came first with her gift -a framed poster of Monroe strum­ming his mandolin. Next came the giant birthday cake, shaped like Kentucky, bearing the message, "Happy 71st Birthday Bill Monroe." 
-AP 
Mostly cloudy today with a high about 83. Con­
tinued warm tonight, cloudy, low 70.-The Observer 
Monday, September 13, 1982 -page 2 

ND-London: 
"This blessed plot, this earth, this realm, this England" -Richard II, II, i, 40 
In Shakespeare's Richard II, John ofGaunt voices his love for his homeland, England. After spending a semes­ter in Notre Dame's Arts & Letters London Program, I find myself in agreement with ol' John's heartfelt senti­ments. 
The green, rolling Cotswolds, stately Windor Castle, dignified, scholarly Oxford, enchanting Stratford-Upon­Avon, eerie Stonehenge... all made for a memorable semester. Add to that the dazzle and excitement of Lon­don's theater district, and the treasures to be found at the art galleries and museums, and you can understand why this "Londoner" would love to go back someday. 
Yes, last semester was a good experience for me, but 
it could have been better. This was the first year for 
Notre Dame's junior semester in London, and 43 of us 
were the "pioneers." In its infancy, the program has a 
few rough edges...edges that are worthy of being 
smoothed, because the London semester has incredible 
potential. 
Now, before I go any further, I want to add this 
caveat. This is only one of4 3 
opinions. Chances are there 
are 42 other variations on 

needs polish 
Tim VerceUotti 
News Editor 

Inside Monday 
The housing situation also needs a little work. All 4 3 ofus lived in a no-frills hotel that housed a large number ofAmerican students. While it was great living with fel­low Domers, the arrangement made it too easy for us to stick together, when we should have been meeting the local people. 
Other foreign study programs circumvent this by placing students in homes. Unfortunately, housing is pretty tight in London, and few people have spare bedrooms to rent out. What could be done in this case is scatter the students at a number ofhotels in the city, or better yet, in student dorms at one of the local univer­
sities. The need for more English professors and classmates, and more scattered housing all suggest that the program just isn't British enough at 

this theme. When Arts & Let­the moment. 
ters Acting Dean Robert What is very British about 
Burns came to London last the program is the cost. I felt 
February to hear our sugges­just like a native as I paid 
tions, he heard all 4 3 views prices almost double what -usually at the same time. they are here. As a result, last Just in case you missed my semester was substantially suggestions, Dean Burns, more expensive than a here they are again. semester at Notre Dame. 
First, take a little more of Naturally, food makes up Notre Dame out ofthe Notre one of the main ex­Dame London Program. The penditures. Most of us cut whole reason behind study­corners where we could ing abroad is to be exposed (some to the extremes of to different points of view, eating popcorn or pasta 

and even different ways of learning. 

Many of last semester's courses were taught by Notre Dame faculty, all ofthem extremely competent and knowledgeable. But if you're hoping to learn about Britain's political system, history, economics and literature, who better to teach these courses than British professors? Also, native academics are needed so that students may best see America and her institutions from a British perspective. 
Acorollary to this is the makeup ofthe classes, which consisted solely ofNotre Dame students. We had to rely on the pubs to meet any locals, and anyone who has ever tried to meet anyone at a bar should know that lasting friendships rarely begin there. There were few exceptions last semester. 
There must be some type of arrangement that could be made with one of the local universities where Notre Dame students could take a course or two. The argu­ments offered when this is brought up are the "vast dif­ferences" between the American and British educational systems; however, we lived with a number of American students enrolled in programs at the Uni­versity ofLondo·1. Notre Dame should look into such an arrangement. 
every night for dinner), and 
lost some weight. Other out­

lays, for such glamorous things as travelling and attending cultural events, as well as the usual books, laundry, etc., reallv thinned out the wallet. · 
Consequently, the London semester threatens to become a program for the affluent or the anorexic. One way to get around this would be to provide some kind offinancial assistance to students wishing to go to Lon­don. The conventional sources of financial aid are drying up right now. Could the University reach into the pocket ofits multi-million dollar endowment to set up a scholarship'or even a low-interest student loan program for students who could not otherwise afford to go? 
Or at the London end, is it possible that the University could contract for some kind of food service in Notre Dame's classroom building? While some might groan at the thought ofSAGA London-style, there were times last semester when I actually dreamt ofSAGA tacos. 
I don't want to sound like a dissatisfied customer when it comes to the London program, because I'm not. Going to London was a wonderful experience, and for that reason I'd like to see the program flourish. 


Design Editor.... ... Deirdre "Should be in Ohio" Murphy Design Assistant ......Jim Keyes, Amateur Angler Layout Staff... . ..................... Reggie, Tom 
Alan Ball Typesetters .Jim 'Not Forgotten" Maclen· nan Brian "When Willi Be" Dunn 
Bruce 'Need a Car' Oakley News Editor....... Vic "Bed Before 4" Sciulli Copy Editor........................... Kathy Murray Features Layout ......Joe "Help" .Musumeci Editorials Layout................ Val and Roper Sports Copy Edilor........... llzave Dziedzic 7)•pist...................................... Monica Gugle Ad Design... .. ................. Mary and Boh Photographer...... "What the Hell!"" Glenn 
"We haven't got the screeris" Scotty Guest Appearances... Sleepwalker Rabbit 'Cartoon" Monk and the Boneheads 
Simon and hi~ Drawers 
"Voices leaking from a sad cafe. Smiling faces try to understmul 

The Observer I USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer 1s published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa~nt Mary s Col lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnt~ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer 1s a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame lno1ana 46556 


The Observer 



Social concerns film series begins 
ByJERRYYOITNG 
.VewsStaff 
Tomorrow mark~ the beginning of the Fall 19H2 Social Concerns Film Series. The series runs through Septemher 2-1 and features four full­length movies de~igned to expose studem~ ro some of the social prohlems that exist around them. 
"These art: good movies that also happen to havt: a social me~sage," said Mary Ann Roemer, Stu­dent/Facult)' Coordinator for the Center of Experiential Learning, "We stand ti>r more than academics and football at "lotrt: Dame.'" 
"We are Christians that often have to deal with such topics as the op­pression of people and their mistreat-ment Tht: objective this week is to use the media to convey a 
message  to  each  individual ahout  
these  issues... and  LO  have  a  good  
time doing it.'"  

Startng off the series tomorrow night is Soldier Girl. This account of a platoon of f!fty young female recruits undergoing basic combat training, focuses on three women and their experience in"making it in 
today's army. 

On September I 6 and 1!,My Bril­
liant Career will be shown. This film 
telb the story of a sensitive and 
spirited young woman at tht: turn of 
the century, depicting her struggle 
to become a writer despite poverty, 
isolation, and pressure to marry. 

The series' most popular movie, John Steinbeck's The Grapes of Wrath will be playing on September 
22. This enduring classic tells the story of a family of sharecroppers traveling West onlv to face hungt:r and injustice in the ··promised land". The film stars Henry Fonda, who was nominated for an Oscar for hi~ per­formance. 
The final film ot the series, Best Boy, will be shown September 23 and 24. The Oscar-winning documentary, directed by Ira Wohl, deals with the life and struggles of a 55-year-old retarded man. Regarded as one of the series' best films, it is highly recommended. 
Although the films employ a seriou~ message on social concerns, it is to be emphasized that their main purpose is for personal enjoyment. "We want people to. have a good time at these movies," said Charles Francis, Public Relations Chairman, "but we also want them to be alerted to the social concerns aspect of the films...to think about them. We want to encourage responsible thinking about problems in our society and the significant issues involved with to face societal dilemmas that con­front everyday life." Admission to Best Boy and My Brilliant Career is 
Sl; Grapes ofWrath andSoldier Girl are free. 
Marine Laboratorv _, 
Saint Mary's junior wins scholarship 
ByJAVIMULVERO 
News staff 
It seemed to her like a shot in the 
dark when she applied. 
But when Patricia Pielnik finished her three-week long summer course in New Brunswick, Canada, and sub­sequently won a scholarship given by the Huntsman Marine Laboratory, she knew her efforts had not been in vain. 
Patricia, a Junior at Saint Mary's College, was one offour scholarship winners recently announced by the Marine Laboratory in St. Andre\\>;;, New Brunswick. She was the only student from the C.S. taking the field course, held from May 16 to June 5, and was awarded a scholarship of SS25. 
Patricia's attraction to nursing did not inhibit her interest in Biology. "I saw an ad on my school's bulletin board, and I applied. Only twenty students got in, and later on I found out I was the first person ftom Saint 
Mary's or Notre Dame ever to have 
won the scholarship." 

The course was difficult," but also 
very enjoy-able," she said. "We had 
a lot ofclasses, and we'd go out on a 
boat taking field samples and or-
Saint Marysstudents form college boUJl 
By MARY ANN POITER 
News Staff 
The College Bowl, Regina Hall elections, and Food Sales were the topics discussed at the Saint Mary's Board of Governance meeting last night. 
Teams are now being formed for the College Bowl which will be held September 29. In the College Bowl, the two competing teams are asked liberal. arts questions. The winners from Saint Mary's will go on to com­pete with other schools regionally. The registration deadline is Septem­ber29. 
Regina Hall will have a new elec­tion system this year. In the past, a president was appointed for the hall and selected the rest of her officers and commissioners through an ap­plication process. The Board of Governance voted last night that the president and vice-president will be elected as a ticket with the secretary and treasurer being individually elected. The rest of the commis­sioners will be selected from ap­plications. Campaigning for the elections will begin September 26, with the election taking place Sep­tember 30. 
Saint Mary's will be continuing the food sales program this year. Dif­ferent clubs and organizations spon­sor the event which features pizza and bagels each Sunday night. A definite date for the start ofthe food sales program has not yet been determined. 
CogLmo'g illaih Cl)egig~ 
/8461 St Rd. 23 South Bend ca!/for appointment 277-1875 .)"iwlllpoo, Condiriona, Cui S!vlt· 
NDSpecial Guys-$7.00 (reg. 13.00) Girts-$10.00 (reg. 18.00) Lo-Ut:·signt-·rs Only ask for Nita orJeff 
: ...............; ..............................~···················~: 
~4 fhl I llll '11\.1 ll·lkf"' 
(:{)111/HIJNIICiilJII()N 0 JlriiCAIJ~fc 
Presents the monday night film series I .······························•·····•··••··•.
. 

• Metropolis • 
TONIGHT: 
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • I 
7pm Annenberg Aud., Snite Museum. Admission $2 
ganisms. Then we'd go to the lab, work with it, watch (subject­related) t11ms... non-stop. From morning to night." She adds that sometimes students even had lectures at midnight. 
Paticia says that she was aware of the possibility of winning the scholarship when she applied but was surpised when she learned that she had actually won it. 
The Laboratory presents its scholarships after the course is com­pleted. Patricia has received other scholarships to go to St. Mary's, but this was the first time she is awarded one for her performance. In addi­tion, St. Mary's College has credited her with three credit hours for the courses she started in May 16 and finished in June 5. These courses covered various aspects of Marine Ecology and Oceanography. 
"Sometimes it's necessary to take that extra step to make what seems like an impossibility a reality." 
SAVE AT ELEK·TEK ON CALCULATORS TEXAS INSTRUMENTS TJ-5, TI-U311(11hr) 21 TI-SeC ,.•10 Tl-55-2 31 58/SIUW..... TI-U!I!J(N"') 43 TI-PC-10DC ••150 Tl-57 21 TI-NOG TI-IIA2 30 TI-MeA •• TI-:15-SP 11•• n st  
HANDHELD COMPUTERS BY PC-1500 POCKET COMPUTER 215 CE·150 CcMor pnnter w1cassett.e rnterrace. 175 4K Mema<v •55 BKM~ 1~ PC-1211 JIOCI(ET COMPUTER. 94 CE-122 1& digrt. printer wtcassette 1nterface M HEWLETT-PACKARD SLIMLINE PROGRAMMABLE • LCD PROBLEM SOLVERS HP-11C Scientific . . . . . . . 7 5 HP-12C Financi•l. . . . . 115 HP-15C Scientific (NEW] .......100 HP-1&C Programmer [Nit"W]. . .. 115 HP-41 CALCULATOA AIIID £111HAIIIC£M£111TS HP-41C. HP-41CV. Optical Wand .. c.rd Reader . . Printer [B214JA]. HP-IL ACCESSORIES HP-IL Module .. ~3.:u~·:~:.::. Drive .. VidO!O lnterl•ce . ------------­:..;.""rl!:p.nsoon Modules for [HP41~~ Quad Mod. . . 75 Ext. Funct. Mod . 60 bt. Mem. Mod. . . 60 Timer Mod 60  
CALL TOLL FREE 800-621-1269 EKCEPT llhnoos, Alaska, Hawau  
Access .'llsr.OI..Clte<l too Corporau Acct•. lnvtt...:l. MCEte"'f"A'"d cr VISa by rnalltr ~-.e Mal Casher sCheck MOf'f'-, Clrd Ders Check I?wto:.s to CJr I Add $4 00 1Sl 1t.em (AK, HI, P.R., C.n.de .td U.oo f1rwt ttMn) $1 OOea a00151'1lg &tla"d ~toll.nt-essadd ~'fu~~o'E~BAA~~~ST-=: AIIID COMPLETE.  
--- ~=-~ ill= ~·  ~=­l.l'{':  


lion on route 1. The junior class held the SJ a car wash to raise moneyfor charity. (Photo by Scott Bower) 
*Con€Y Ooqs, Ch1L1, ano assoRt€0 oth€R ~ooos avaJlaBL€ 
"'~ 

~ 
PttCh€RS $3.00 f?\'f?ll ...()llcJ(), BaR htqhsalls 754 ~[)/~...~ 111cl OomesttcB€€R rf?CJ uIrt?cl 



(cans) 75¢ 
~()rn111~ Mrt.11·--------...... 
aRtto's hatr-wayto St. patRtck'sOay Cel€BRatton 





""·-·-·----------.,I 

I I I I I 

!COACH FAUST fi"D I fTHE1982 FIGHTI"~ 
IIRISH 
I~~ 
I ~ 
lao IRISH! !BEfiT WOLVERI"ES!. j

~-------------------------J 
J 

The Observer Monday, September 13, 1982-page 4 

Tron, the popular video game adapted from the movie of the same name bas arrived atNotre Dame and is currently residing in the basementofLa Fortune. (Photo by Glenn Kane) · 

ATTENTION UNDERCLASSMEN: 
N.11. Jlre-&w ~nrietu Organizational Meeting 
TONIGHT 
Monday, Sept. 13 
Engineering Auditorium 7pm 




Elephant gets orthopoedic shoes 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Elep­hants carry a lot of weight and the strain has been showing on 6-year­old Kubwa. Kubwa's is carrying around 50 extra pounds as officials 
at the Indianapolis Zoo try to cure her ankle problems. 
The extra weight comes from a snappy pair of dark brown, high-top orthopedic shoes. Zoo officials dis­
covered  eight  months  ago  that  
Kubwa's  hind  ankles  were  too  
wobbly.  They  found  Don  

Menchhofer, the president of Fabri­Tech Inc., a suburban company that manufactures slings and cinches for horses. 
Kubwa's ankles weren't able to support her weight of approximate­ly 2,000 pounds, Menchhofer said. "She sort of looks like a little kid put on ice skates the first time. The ankles tend to lean inside." he said. 
Menchhofer designed the or­thopedic shoes, made ofdark brown canvas mesh and tan metal straps covered with color-coordinated brown padding. Fabri-Tech built the elephant shoes after commissioning Central Tool, a machine shop in Fortville, to make the metal sup­
ports. 

The shoes fasten onto Kubwa's hind legs with buckles and each weighs 25 pounds. 
"With any wildanima'l, you cut off the proper air circulation t<) tfie feet if you put shoes on them,'' Menchhofer said. "I tried-~o get around that by using mesh. To give the shoes a little style, I made them look like a big Adidas tennis shoe." 
Menchhofer said he designed a prototype for Kubwa bur "she tore them up, so I had to redesign the boot." The new sei was put on the elephant last week, and she will wear them at least six months. 
The problem with the hind feet was noticed about eight months ago by Dr. Justin Janssen, a veterinarian who treats the zoo's larger creatures. He attributed the problem to growth spurts, said zoo publicist Shirley Boltz. 
"Her legs have grown long and narrow, which have caused her 
~........................................................................................................................ ~ 
' CLUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS!!! . ~ ,, ACTIVITY FEE FUNDING ~ 
·~ ~ 
:~ Applications for receiving Student Activity Fee Funds ~ 
~ ! 
~ are now available in Student Activities Office ~ 
~ 1st Floor LaFortune. ' ~ ~ 
~ . ~ 
J Deadline for applying is Wednesday, September 15. ! 
,~......................................................................................................................... 
.. . . ... . . . .. . . . . . . ..... .. . . . . . ......... . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . ... . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .... . . . . . . .... . . . . ... . . .' 
· oin USC 
: 
The Undergraduate 
Schools not Southvrn Cal 
;


Involves: Committee 
Notre Dame students visiting their former high schools, and other high schools in their areas, ~ ~ during the Ocotber and Christmas vacations. ~~0 

We welcome responsible students to act as .,, representatives of the University ofNotre Dame ~ Admissions Office. 
Applications are available now through September 15th at the reception desk in the Admissions Office, Room 113, 
. Administration Building. 
. . 
~ ..................................,..................................."································ 
ankles to turn inward. The elephant isn't in any pain, but likeahuan child, if the problem isn't corrected while she's young, she'll grow up with a gigantic problem," Mrs. Boltz said. 
"Her growth spurts could have been caused by her diet, from too much protein, or maybe from her 
\ 

pacing all the time in just one part of the elephant exhibit." she said. "We really don't know." 
Menchhofer said he sent no bill to the zoo for Kubwa's shoes, explain­ing, "This became an intriguing chal­lenge. It was nothing you wanted to charge for." 
Fiery helicopter crash worst in German history 
MANN HElM, West Germany (AP) 
-Authoritie~ said yesterday that 
they now believe 45 people died in 
the fiery crash of a U.S. Army 
helicopter carrying an international 
parachute team, but it may take days 
to complete the grisly ta.sk ofsorting 
out the victims. · 
West German and American in­vestigators, meanwhile, began probing the cause of Saturday's dis­aster, one of the worst chopper crashes on record. 
Witnesses said the big Chinook lost a rotor before it plummeted from a height of about 300 yards during the Mannheim Air Show and slammed into a nearby highway, where it exploded and burned. 
"The identification (of the vic­
tims) is going to take a long time, be­
cause the bodies are all melted 
together in a clump," said Man­
nheim police spokesman Karl-Heinz 
Zimmerman. 
At first, authorities said they 
thought 44 people were aboard the 
giant Chinook helicopter -five 
American crew members and 39 
skydivers from several countries. 
Mannheim chief prosecutor 
Frank-Peer Gletter told a news con­
ference that officials now believe 
the chopper crew had only four 
members but a two-man television crew from the U.S. Armed Forces Network may have been on board, raising the death toll to 45. 
Gletter stressed, however, that au­thorities still are not certain how many were on the chopper and do not know when they will be able to provide an accurate count. 
Six of the victims have been iden­

tified, he said. Names were not 
released, but sources said thev were 
believed to be members ~f the 
helicopter crew. 
So far, authorities have said the victims were believed to be seven Americans, 23 French, eight Britons, six West Germans and a Canadian. In addition to the helicopter and net­work crews, the Americans may in­clude another soldier, officials said. 
A witness said the Chinook hit a traffic divider when it crashed. 
.. . Game 

continuedfrom page 1 
fleers will be posted on the top of the scoreboard searching for suspi­cious action. First aid groups will be at the stadium from 9:00 a.m. 
Although it has not been con­firmed yet, Terry expects Musco Lighting Co. to provide a mobile lighting unit on the road between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
Terry is not anticipating any major problems in a given area but has, nevertheless, "taken every precaution for everything we've ex­perienced before." 








" ... 

NICKlES 
Saint ffiaty's Seniot Nite 
Sept.13 

50( ffiixed Dtinks 

6:00 tilllO:OO 
--~­

Editorials 
Monday, September 13, 1982-page 5 
In memory of Kevin Emery 
This article is dedicated to 

Kevin's roommates, Bob, jim, and 
Dave; to the rest of the guys in the 
section; to Stacey; and to Kevin's 
many friends. It is what I have to give. 
Early Sunday morning, Kevin Emery was killed. He lost control of his car while turning through a bend and struck a power line tower. Bob Hannau, who was in the car with Kevin, escaped with a minor con­cussion and a bruised lung. Both Kevin and Bob are from my section on the seventh floor of Flanner Hall, just one door away from mine. 
I only have known Kevin since the 

beginning of this semester, but it 
seems much, much longer. His 
bright sense of humor and playful 
cockiness drew quick acceptance. 
Kevin always gave you the impres­
sion that he was enjoying life. 
The first time I heard the words, "Kevin died," was when my roommate came in the room at 6:00 
a.m. to go to sleep. He told me, but I certainly didn't believe it. I suppose that you never do the first time you hear it. I believe it now, though. 
I could not go back to sleep. Sleep 

seemed like something that would 
take more energy than I had. I went 
out into the hall. Kevin's roommates 
were overwhelme~. They had been 
awake all night and were drained by 
the emotional strain. It was in this 
state that they left with our rector to 
tell Kevin's girlfriend. 
I had to get out. I first decided to 

go to the Grotto, then I thought I 
would just walk, but then someone 
pointed out the tower they had hit. 
It was extremely visible from the 
seventh floor lobby, rising like a 
monument above the trees. Ten minutes later I found myself there, in the place where Kevin died. 
A large path had been cut through the bushes as the car had gone off the road. All that remained there at the base of the tower were small pieces of Kevin's car -a foam rub­ber pad, a rear window, a piece of the dash. The car, just like Kevin's life, had been taken away. 
I remember wanting to cry, but not finding the tears. As I walked down the old abandoned road there, though, I looked up and saw the 
dome, bathed in the sunlight of a brilliant dawn. It was as I realized that Kevin would never see this beautiful sunlit morning, that I began to cry. 
In an instant the world had shrunk down around the members of our section. A void now existed in the world that could not be filled. It felt as if a piece in the middle of a giant puzzle had been lost forever, making the rest of the picture unimportant, silly. 
Soon, I found myself thinking about all those other people in the world dying millions dying. Dying in car accidents, dying in hospitals, dying in wars, dying in hunger and pain. Millions of people leaving behind family, friends, and loved ones. I asked myself: Do I share in their pain? Do they share in mine? 
I found I could not answer my questions because they ran too deep and hurt too much. All that I know for sure, now, is that that beautiful 
little  piece is  missing  from  the  
puzzle.  
Dave Grote  

I want one, too 
Well, I told you. Last year, I wrote several serious columns on the state of life in this wonderful university. Nobody cared. (Maybe I didn't either, but that's another matter entirely.) Since last Monday, I have received a regular plethora ofcalls, requests, and threats on my life. (I am afraid I have had to decline most of the last; although the gentleman with the suggestion about the meat hooks and the baby oil seemed genuinely interested in the good ofthe world in general; he also sounded a lot like my roommate with a handkerchief over his mouth.) 
Joe Musumeci 
looking In 
Know well that I take this silliness seriously. Far too many people take life seriously for any of us to take anything seriously, and the only way for me to take anything seriously is to take nothing at all seriously. Untangle that and you can have this job. 
This summer I was scanning the pages of the Washington Post wondering where in heaven's name they hid the comics this time, when I came across a fascinating advertis­ment. The Army, it seems, is running out of room to store all the goodies they buy from Northrop, Lockheed, Kenner Toys, etc. At least this is the impression I got from the ad: "Military Surplus Sale, bargain prices." 
Though no rebates were indicated, I glanced through the price list, and was shocked by some of the bargains offered; the steal of the day seemed to be a Patton tank, available in working order for a paltry C-note. Thinking in terms of a planter, or perhaps spare transportation for the Indiana winters, I called the number at the bottom ofthe ad. 
"Army surplus sale, Corporal Hague." 
"Uh, yes. I'd like to buy an M-48 Patton with the economy option." I'm sorry, the last one went just an hour ago. We have a beautiful M60A1 with night optics installed, though, and it was only used on weekend exercises by a senile colonel ... 
The price was more than I could afford, so I just hung up. But then an amazing thought took root in my mind and began to flower (much in the manner of a sick rutabaga). I took receiver in hand and dialed the num­ber ... 
"Army surplus sale, Corporal Hague." 

"Uh, it's me again. I think I'd like to make a purchase after all." "Wonderful! We've got ..." "I'd like to buy a Bomb. "Well, we have incendiary bombs, napalm 
bombs, anti-armor bombs .. : you want this for a planter?" (he's used to this) 
"No, I mean the Bomb. I want one. Cheap." 
"You mean anatomic bomb?" 

"Sure! Why not? Some of them must be outdated by now ... or else we wouldn't be worried about getting more. There's no dif­ference between an M-48 and a Bomb. You have to sell me one. I could kill just as many people with a handgun, if I were willing to take the time. If it's my constitutional right to defend my personal property against thugs, villains, and anybody else who annoys me, then I want to be able to defend myself against Russia and the forces ofevil, too." 
"But that's what the Armed Forces are for. They protect the entire nation from the nasty world powers who don't think like we do." 
"Don't give me that. They just defend the nation. What if I'm riding the subway one day and I see a whole battalion of Commie troopers marching down the Red Line tracks. You can bet the Army won't be aiming nukes at the Connecticut Avenue junction. They'll be lofting them gaily at Moscow." 
"Ah, but ifyou blew up a nuclear weapon in a subway station, you might kill the enemy, but you'd also kill yourself" 
"Look, pal, if anybody starts exploding nuclear weapons anywhere, I'm not going to be taking out any long-term loans. Why should the major powers have sole rights to the ex­termination ofthe human race? O.K, call me a ham, but if we're going to do away with our­selves, I want my share ofthe limelight. I want a Bomb!" "Look, I can't give you any or­dinance whatsoever unless you sign a form saying that it will only be used for civilian purposes. How can you justify buying a nuclear warhead?" 
"I want to use it for a planter ..." For those of you who are wondering bow this conversation turned out, suffice it to say thai "military intelligence" is a contradiction in terms, and ifyou should ever come to my door with a -:omplaint, you just might receive a rather rude shock ... 
A place for everyone and everyone in his place 
The construction of the new faculty office building presents both advantages and disad­vantages inherent in any structure. There is no 
doubt that the faculty needs new office space and that they will fully use the structure, however. the overall planning of the building leaves much to be desired. 


Paul McGinn 
For What It's Worth 

But the issue of the building is not whether it should be built; the issue is whether the philosophy behind the building reflects patient and long-range foresight. 
From the beginning, the new structure was intended for faculty offices, period. The sheer numbers indicate the desire to find aplace for the faculty: 254 cubicles with only eight semi­nar rooms and two lounges. 
Indeed, there is little difference between the proposed offices and the tombs of the library basement; unless, of course, one were to swallow the administrative concession ofa window for each office. Seemingly, the ad­ministrators hope to create the diversion of windows in order to avoid the issue at hand: whether there should be a separate structure dedicated entirely to faculty members. 
There is a prickling feeling in the stomachs of many that a building reserved but for one purpose runs contrary to the very essence of education. The intentional separation of the faculty and student body boldly announces that the two integral members of Notre Dame are somehow incompatible. 
And yet the problem is not new. Students, faculty and administrators live within the1r own spheres, rarely coming together except in their official capacities. 
Students live in dorms among other stu­dents. Students go to classes amidst bunches of fellow students. Students sit in long rows, confronting a blackboard and an incredible feeling that they are up against an animal tamer who forces them to jump through hoops ofmemorizing and problem solving. Af­ter class, students return to their own dining hall, there to sit and converse among equals. 
Lay faculty members live off campus among other workers of the South Bend area. Ariving on campus, they check in at their respective 
departmental offices and talk among fellow professors and graduate students. Once in class, they assume their traditional stance before a group of anti-intellectual performance-conscious adolescents who bow and scrape for every point. Cnce class ends, faculty are rarely able to continue discussions with interested students as there are few com­mon areas designed specifically for informal conversation. 
And although the faculty senate and other faculty committees have recognized these problems and consulted administrators, the administration continues the random build­ing plans which only serve to further alienate 
professors from students. In. a seeming show of Rousseauian "general will," the administra­tion has decided what is needed. 
Rumors now have it that a new classroom building is on the drawing board. One won­ders ifthe mistakes ofnew faculty office build­ing will be repeated in yet another conceptual heresy. 
Wholistic visions of faculty and students coming together gradually fade as the physical separations continue. Relationships which characterize other great American univer­sities fail utterly at Notre Dame because ofthe antiquated notions ofacademic hierarchy. 
The simple amenities of sharing a cup of coffee, of discussing personal interests over a meal, or of saluting one another in the hall seem so foreign at a school imbued with a per­verted sense of "a place for everything and everything in its place." 
While no architectural designs guarantee a Eutopian educational setting, the mere acces­sibility and proximity ofstudents to faculty in­creases the chances for more interaction. If long-range planners hope to foster faculty­student understanding, they must realize that the more facilities in a building, the easier it is for faculty and students to stop playing roles and to start learning. 
It seems so frustrating that in a community ofsuch dedicated faculty and students simple architectural plans dictate how these groups view each other. Perhaps it is impossible to salvage the plans of a building whose con­struction begins this week; but if it is impos­sible to redirect the long-term plans of the University, perhaps the planners only corrupt the real meanings oflearning. 

Editorial Board Department Managers 
The Obrerz•<'r •· n mdcpendcnt new~papcr published by the ~tudents of the 
l:diltJr· ill-Chief... .... :vlich;td Monk llusiness Jfunuger .. . ....... Tony Aiello 
Untvcrsity of Notr )arne ,lu be .wd Samt Mary's College. It does not nt'\es~anly 
.\tww,~in,~ l:"tlitur ... Ryan \'n lkrkmoo Cuulmller .. .. ............... Eril· Sl.:hul1. 
reflect the polttif'· the admmtstr.ltton of etthcr institutiOn. The news ~~ report 
f:'.n•cu/11'<: .\'eu·.~ Ftlitor.. .. ....... 1\.dli Flint .·ltlt•erlising .Uunuger ......Chris Owen 
jed as a(curately atlll as ob)t'l.tin:ly as possible. Editorials represent the opmion of 
SMCExecutive Editor... ...Marg;tn·t Fo~mot· l'mtlul"lio~l Jftmuger ................. Maura Murphy 
a ma1ority of the Edttorial Board. Co.nment:lric~. cpinions and letters are the views 
.\floris Ftlilor... .. ...................Chri~ NlTdk·~ Circulation Munugl·r ........................ Ray lnglin 
j ~ 
of thetr authors._ Column spa<e is_ available to all members of the L"Ommuili~;·, 1~d Ftliloriu/s Ftlilor .. .. ..l';~ul Ml·(;inn .\)·sll'ms .Utmuga . .. ....llrun· ( )aldey the free express1on of varymg opm10ns on campus, through l.ctters, ia encounged. . .................. Tari Brown
/-"(•I/lures i:~iii;;; .. I'IH1/o Ftlilor .. . .. Kal·;;~-~ !~lount Founde, wember 3. 1966
P.0.8ox Q, Notre Dame,IN 46556 (219) l39-5.iO.i 


~~S tl0 wc~~~iiiiiSiiiiiEiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMoiiindiiiayiii,Seiiiptiiiemiiibeiiirliii3,iii19iii82iiiiipaiiiiiiige-6 
Foot-stompin' fun 
I
t was easy to understand why Bar­the talented band with Skaggs. To­vious she enjoyed performing for bara Mandrell has won the CMA gether they had a good beat, and this audience and they in return Entertainer of the Year Award twice managed to skillfully combine the loved her. when she performed for a capacity country sound with a more pal­Throughout the set Mandrell con­audience Saturday night at the ACC. litable blue grass influence. The tinued to make the audience feel a 
band, recently nominated by the part ofthe performance by dedicat­
Barbara Mandrell and Ricky 

CMA for Band of the Year, always ing songs to various groups. In a
Skaggs, the opening act performer, 
maintained a sound that was pleas­touching song dedicated to the
are both traditionally Country Wes­
ing to the ear. They were a major teenagers and the senior citizens of
tern singers; however, their diverse 
part of the performance, but they the group Mandrell truly won the
talents attracted and entertained an 
never overpowered Skaggs or his heart ofevery person in the crowd.
audience that was not strictly a 

singing. Skaggs, in fact, featured his Whether she is singing a country
country crowd_ It included 

band members a number of times song or a Gospel ballad, Mandrell's
everyone from hard rockers to 

throughout the evening, and the beautiful voice captivates an
"down home country folk." 

audience showed their enjoyment audience. Mandrell's talents, 
Moreover, the crowd ranged in age 
ofthe sound the band produced by however, range far beyond just sin­
groups from the very young to 

frequently singing along with the ging. She displayed her versatility by
senior citizens, and everyone 

songs played. playing at least six different instru­
enjoyed the show. 

ments during the evening, rangingAfter Skaggs slowed things down from guitar and banjo to keyboardwith gospel music that the crowd
Betsy Pottet 
and the horn, among others.

obviously liked, he ended his perfor­mance with an upbeat country 
While continually enteraining the swing song that really had the 
audience with her instrumental concert review audience rocking with him. With the talent and singing her hits, like the talent Skaggs posesses as a singer and recent number one hit "Till Your 
Ricky Skaggs, the youngest mem­the ahility ofthe band to blend many Gone" and her personal favorites. ber of the Grand Ole Opry, gained sounds together well, the group has she gave her band, The Do Rights, the audience's approval from the a bright future ahead ofthem in the the praise they deserved. The Do start by performing "I Don't Care, a tleld ofcountry music. 
Rights posess a wide range ofgroup recent top country hit. He con­After a brief intermission, the 
and individual musical styles and tinued to keep the crowd interested huge round ofapplause that echoed 
talents. Throughout the evening by playing a number offast upbeat in the ACC signaled the beginningof 
Mandrell featured various band country tunes with interesting and the feature performance of the 
memhers at their specialties. 

meaningful lyrics. With songs like night. Barbara Mandrell came on "Get Your Heart Broke, a new stage to recieve a warm welcome. The concert was made even more release, and "Don't Get Above Your from the moment she appeared on enjoyable by the way she joked with 
Raisin"' -also a recent top hit on stage she enjoyed herself and the the band members. Mandrell and the country charts, he kept the audience enjoyed her. her hand have a very good on stage crowd thoroughly entertained. Mandrell immediately captivated relationship that is pleasing to the Skaggs showed his versatility in her audience by starting off with a audience. The band teased her more singing as he sang songs ranging series offast snappy country songs than she did them but it was all in from upbeat country swing to including top hits like "I was fun, and the audience loved every torchy love ballads. He further Country when Country wasn't bit ofthe onstage antics. impressed the audience with his a Cool" and the song that brought In a very moving rendition of cappella rendition ofa Gospel song Mandrell her fame -"Sleeping "Glory, Glory, Hallelujah" Mandrell entitled "Talk About Suffering". Al­Single in a Double Bed." and the Do Rights totally enchanted though Skaggs is a very talented Mandrell was very receptive of and thrilled the audience. In fact she 
singer, his stage presence is some­the crowds approval, and they did recieved a standing ovation for her what bland. He was very stationary approve ofher, constantly cheering performance ofthis closing number. during his entire set, and he rarely and applauding her actions and sin­After a encore performance, 
talked with or incorporated the ging. She frequently talked and Mandrell and the Do Rights left the audience into his singing. joked with the audience, and gave crowd at the ACC knowing they had Yet, the crowd was far from bored away several instruments used seen a concert they won't soon for­with this performance because of throughout the evening. It was ob-get. 
Davis thrills audience 
'"J"fhe University Artists Series traduction and Rondo, Davis torino Respighi'sSonata in b minor balance the "high drama" ofthe bulk ist. The performance again will be 
.1 kicked offits 1982-83 season in produced a pleasant clarity and rich­and Bela Bartok's Rumanian Folk ofthe program. set in the Annenberg Auditorium, fine fashion yesterday evening as ness oftone that was to be standard Dances. Folk Dances especially A reception in Crowley Hall with its fine acoustics and seatingar­violinist Michael Davis and pianist for the evening. drew the audience's favor. The sponsored by the graduate students rangement. Tickets will be available Nelson Harper put on a crowd­Johannes Brahms' Sonatensatz moving and vibrant works, which in the University's Music Depart­at the door, with general admission pleasing performance in the Annen­gave the mustachioed Davis a Davis described as pieces of"high ment followed the performance. of $2, and students admitted free berg Auditorium of the Snite chance to demonstrate his ver­drama," were a fitting conclusion to Davis will conduct a master class in upon presentation oftheir iden­Museum ofArt. satility, as he brought life to this a fine program. Room 122 ofCrowley Hall today. tification cards. 
heavier piece with his strong play, The audience's response to the The next performance in the Uni­severe facial expression and pieces, however, encouraged Davis versity Artist Series is scheduled for For more infonnation on the mas­
Btuce Oakley 

demonstrative body movements. to present an encore from the works Sunday, October 17 at 4 p.m. Pianist ter's class call the Music Body language helped make of Ravel, a peaceful arrangement to Dmitry Paperno is the featured art-Department. Dayis' performance all the more
music review 

appealing, as his expressions and at­
Davis played a varied and interest­titudes helped build a sense ofstory ing program of music ofthe last two behind the music, bringing a greater centuries, adequately assisted by fullness to the works. Harper. An appreciative audience of Harper's accompaniment was per­
approximately I SO students and fectly suited to the violinist's style ­area music buffs gave the pair a solid playing in almost flawless unison round ofapplause at intermission 
with Davis throughout the show, and again at the end of the perfor­
while remaining marvelously un­mance. obtrusive. The two opened the.show with A rousing performance ofClaude ·"Stravinsky'sSuite Italienne, a Debussy'sSonate drew raves from cult piece handled competently the audience just before intermis­uavis, demonstrating fine bowing sion. Sonate calls for a great sen­tlr.gering techniques through­sitivity to tempo and tone, and Davis vut complex passages. and Harper managed the sudden I As the evening wore on, Davis -transitions with consummate skill. Artist Professor of Violin at Ohio Moving with equal grace through
f State University -proved he could heavy, sonorous passages and pierc­bring sentimental depth as well as ing, vibrant phrases, the duo technical skill to his music, evoking produced a deeply compellingeffort 
t('Uching images with his inspired that led to prolonged applause from
l 
play and intense expression. the crowd. 
The crowd's enthusiasm for Davis' The second halfofthe show did play grew with each work, as the nothing to diminish the crowd's e~­pieces gained in emotional depth thusia~m. as Da_':'~~ :;-,~ i-i.arper and vitality. In Franz Schubert's/n­l'~ayed exquisite renditions ofOr­
£t 






The Observer Features Section 
Monday, September 13, 1982-page 7 
Another Brooks brother? 
I"""J"1he rumor had been bouncing around campus for a 
~ whole week. 
As a callous senior I ignored it as l had the others ...the reinstatement ofkegs, the abolition of parietals, "Keenan's rector is a mouse" ....these and others fell on deaf ears. 
Hut then, during a drinking session with my main man Party Dave, he told me something that made the hair on the back of my neck stand straight out. 
"Father Ted," the Partymaster whispered, "has grown a beard." 

EdKonrady 
features 
No, it couldn't be! Father Theodore Hesburgh, the leader of9,000 students here in Catholic Disneyland, and a respected political/religious leader, growing a beard? It was obvious that the Partyman had been hit­ting the Iron City brew again. 
Then the phone calls started: "Ed, you are a pseudo­respectable features columnist. You helped us with the dating, now please, please do something. Ted has grown a beard -what can we do?" 
By this time I was getting tired. After drinking all 
night and then getting phone calls from irate studentt; 
about Ted's beard, I, too, was becoming rather per-. 
turbed. So when the associate features editor. who also 
has a beard. rudely reminded me that my column was 
two days late and that my life was in danger, I knew my 
mission. 
I had to inform Ted and the rest of the free world of 
that startling fact, obvious to all who saw our glorious 
leader's picture on the front page oflast week's Ob· 
serz•er. 
The man who tries to represent Notre Dame's ideals and successes, a m,m who has represented our country, having grown a beard, now resembles Foster Brook:< 
Foster Brooks. 

Sure, some of the more understanding and literate souls have tried to convince me that Ted looks like Er· nest Hemingway or the man who played Kris Kringle in 
Miracle on 34th Street. 
But just between us, we all know the truth. A man little children admire, students never see, and alumni write checks to, a man that ordinary citizens dream of meeting ....looks like Foster Brooks. True, on some people beards look fine. The previous­ly mentioned associate features editor looks much bet­ter with hair covering his face. 
However, can a person in a position of responsibility and respect, a position in which one must go around asking for endowments for one of the most respected universities in this country, afford to look like Foster Brooks? 
Now we all realize that Mr. Brooks is just a comedian who pretends to be drunk constantly and to have cir­rhosis of the brain as well as the liver. 
But this inference toward the man that made "in loco parentis" famous can only add question marks about his ability to lead us toward greater heights ofincome. 
In the past, beards have meant more than an absence of razors in one's house. Throughout history, the wearing of beards has been determined by religious customs or the fashions of the time. 
The ancient Egyptians shaved for religious reasons, thereby leading the ancient jews to not shave for religious reasons. One wonders what the Middle East would be like now ifthe ancient Egyptians had decided to live for religious reasons. 
Alexander the Great was clean-shaven himself, and ordered his men to shave so opposing forces could not grab their beards during a fight. Alex was very success­ful in his business, the conquest ofthe world, until he was killed when he got the hiccups while shaving. However, success was beginning to be equated with a clean-shaven face. 
In our own country, none ofthe signers ofthe Decla· ration ofIndependence had a mustache or beard. It wasn't until the inauguration of Abraham Lincoln that we had a President with a beard, and we all know how the South felt about that. 
In more recent times, our Presidents and political representitives have been clean-shaven, although it is rumored that Richard Nixon used to tape a pocket comb to his uppt:r lip and pretend he had a mustache. 
Mustaches are connoted with sensual and successful people like Tom Selleck, Burt Renyolds, and myself. 
Hut this Christian freedom fighter and Irish football fan grew a beard, and the thunder came rolling down out ofthe sky ....yet, the situation can be saved. 
We can hold a raffle tor Ted's whiskers when he 
::.itaves the beard. At $SO a crack, Ted could raise a 
couple ofthousand dollars for the university. Or maybe 
a contest to see who gets to shave this grizzed veteran of 
the Golden Dome. 
The possiblities are endless, but one thing is certain. The leader of my university looks like Foster Brooks, .and (hiccup) this place may never be the same. 
Editor's note: Fr. Hesburgh apparentlyfound an ad· vance copy ofMr. Konrady's article and, in chagrin, took his advie. Observer-1; Vogue magazine -0 




maybe nextyear! 
P
rocrastinate, v.; to put offdoing pale pre-meds with 3.9 GPAs -the Obviously, the ability to procras­something until a future time; only people on campus who know tinate is not limited to students. to postpone ordefer taking action. what time the library opens on Take the Notre Dame Board ofTrus­Saturday -scold themselves for tees' decision to retain Father Hes­
It is a rather unfortunate fact that 

sneaking a quick game ofbackgam· burgh for another five years. This is
lew freshmen entering Notre Dame 
mon on a Tuesday night when they clearly a classic case of the "we'll do
fully understand the subtle art of 
could be getting a jump on next it later" syndrome. One can just im­
procrastination. Sure, many of these 
month's Advanced Organic Bio­agine the scene in a smoke-filled 
first-year students breezed through 
Chemistry readings. The ac­back room ofthe Administration
high school with good grades on 
complished procrastinator will Building. A few names are thrown
minimal work. But considering the 
never fret over interruptions -around, a couple ofguys tell old
generally light workload of most 
however inane. He will always ac­football stories in the corner, and
high schools, there is opportunity 
cept a raquethall challenge or an of· maybe a little forced discussion fer ofan excursion tothe Oak Room. takes place. Pretty soon, everyone is Chris Fraser bored and hungry so someboby sug-'
Characteristic ofthe skillful 
gests, "Why don't we just keep Ted

procrastinator is that he somehow 
around a little longer and send out 

manages to enjoy the most banal and 
for a pizza?" Everyone quickly

uninteresting aspects oflife. Hence,
features agrees that indeed it would be most
he can attentively watch Laverne 
imprudent to have Father Hesburgh
and Shirly re-runs while sipping a
for procrastination only at the most 
step down at this time and that, yes, 
elementary levels. Notre Dame, on luke-warm Dr. Pepper the night 
sausage and pepporoni would he 

the other hand, is recognized as a before an Econ exam. A mere begin· 
fine. This is a grand example ofhigli·
leading academic institution and, as ner not only would nor have ac­
level procrastination about which 

such, it affords students the oppor· quired the dubious hut necessary 
we students can only dream. A note 
tunity to refine and perfect the taste for such drudgeries but he 
ofwarning may even be needed. 

deceptively complex art ofprocras­would also find himself unable to 
This decision was postponed by

tination. Yet. even in the ranks ofex­keep hi5 mind off his schoolwork. 
professionals ofthe trade and any at· 
perienced upperclassmen, we find 
For example, Lenny and Squiggy tempts to imitate this non-action by
that the truly professional procras­
would certainly remind him that he amateurs could prove hazardous to 
tinator is a rare animal indeed. 
is falling behind in Psychology and your· health ( apd your grades). 
There are several things that I all those pushy commercials would I realize that many ofyou have 
want to say about procrastination. I only conjure up thoughts ofan up· probably thrown this paper on your 
will say them quickly, so Ican watch coming marketing project. Ahealthy desk and gone off to get aMountain 
some TV, grab a nap, and still have alternative to TV is a daily glance Dew. And since the editors and 
this story ready for its September 12 through the newspaper. However. layout people are bugging me to 
deadline. First, it is important to the true procrastinator will usually finally finish up, I will conclude with 
recognize that everyone considers read only the comics -the bad the advice ofthat famous old cliche: 
him:-.df a procr-astinator ("blow-off' news on the other pages can most as­nez1erput offuntil tomorrow what 
is the layman's term). Even those suredly wait. you can putoffuntil tbe day after. 

during the Summer... 
A s I settled into my seat aboard the crowded 747 bound from .l"\..Amsterdam to Chicago, I first entertained the notion ofwriting a few articles recounting the ten weeks I had just spent bicycling through the European countryside. l had covered just over 2300 miles, visited eight countries, made lifetime friendships and had taken 350 photographs depicting my adventures. I had to smile, however, as I realized that such a journalistic endeavor would be reminiscent ofthose annual grammar school papers, "How I spent my summer vacation." But I realized that I did not justspend time in Europe, for travelling by bike added a dimension to the trip that I could never have expected ... 
Kevin Shortelle 
features 

The trip had actually been a number ofyears in the planning. I was first introduced to Europe after college graduation in 1977 along with a tour group ofabout SO people. It proved to be an adequate in· troduction to Europe but I quickly realized that travelling with a group that size severely limited access to the European people. 
.. .The selection of the 10-speed bike as the means of transporta· tion was made after I had toured California's majestic Pacific Coast High from San Francisco to San Diego on two successive years. I met a number ofyoung European back-packers along the route and decided that cycling Europe would be the ideal means ... 
In many small towns I was looked upon as a curiosity and was of­fered assistance withouteverasking for help. Such occurances often resulted in inordinate degrees ofhospitality, leading to lunch and dinner invitations along with a dozen invitations to spend the night 
in people's homes. 
The Dutch tour began in Amsterdam, a haven for young travellers. From some ofthe finest art galleries in Europe, to overt drug dealing on the main square, to the city's infamous Red light destrict, there is 
really something for everyone. 
...A bike path began at the casino resort town ofZandvoort and wound its way 30 miles through small seaside towns, nude beaches and desolate sand dunes. 
After visiting The Hague, an immaculate city considering its size, I swung south proceeding through miles offlower fields and green houses until I came upon the city ofDelft, renowned world wide for its pottery. The bustling port city ofRotterdam was next, completely rebuilt since it was razed during WW II bombings. Upon leaving Rot· terdam, I left the major cities behind and began serene country cycling following treelined bikepaths, quiet canals and expansive pastureland. A memorable 25 miles stretch paralleled the Lek River. The waterway on my left was congested with barge traffic headed for Rotterdam, while on my right lay tiny homes with petite flower gar· dens, women in traditional dress including wooden shoes and meadows littered iwth grazing sheep and cows ... It was an en­lightening contrast in this small country. The cities are modern and energetic but the nation is rich in history and the rural areas cling to their past. 
This is thefirst ofa series ofexcerptsfrom Kevin Shortelle's account ofhis bike tour through Europe. Look for more in this space in the foltowing weeks. 

by Ted Ozark




smerd 


----~----------------------~-­

Sports Bri~/§ 
Monday, septeJber 13, 1982 -page 8 
::~B~}~·~Th::e~O~b~s;.t:'r~l~~=r~a~n~d;;Th::e~A~s:s:o:c7ia:t:e:d~P;:re~s:s::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::~;;;~::==~===~:::1::::~===..======= 
The 0bserver will accept classifteds Mon­day through Fnday. 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. However. class1fieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the bus1ness day pnor to 1nsert1on. All class1f1eds must be prepaid. 
e1ther in person or through the mall. 





Classifieds 

WANTED: T1x for Miam1 game on Oct. 9 WANTED: 5 TIX FOR MICHIGAN GAME ABIOGENESIS DANCE COLLECTIVE
THE GANG"S ALL HERE! -or at least BIG BUCKS!!! FOR TWO PENN STATE Need at least 3. Name pnce and call Ger· Student or GA. Please call Eileen at 277-Organizational meeting 7 pm tonight ry at 277·3067. 1709.$$$$ Little Theatre, LaFortunethey're gonna be here for Michigan GAs--MAKE OFFER AND GET RICH 
weekend! Need 10-13 Mich tix. GA or CALL 277-4043 
NOTICES 

STU. Have some Miami GAs for trade 
TRADE:! need 2 MICH GAs. Will trade 2 Needed 1 G A or student ticket lor M1ami Does Ann molest frogs or have 1hey simp­
call: Mike 4388 or Steve 1857 MIKE IS WILLING TO PAY $60 PER G. A 
GAs for any other home game. 255-9971 game Will pay Big Bucks. Call Tom at ly been kidnaped? Call SMC-5092 if you 
3160 have any 1nfoNEED MALE STUDENT TO SHARE 6· MICHIGAN TICKET CALL 1589 
IMPROVE YOUR GRADES! Research WILL TRADE 2 MICH GA"s FOR 4 GA"s catalog· 306 pages -10,278 topics· Rush TO ANY OTHER HOME GAME CALL stud season fb t1c for sale. best offer at Noble Roman·s is now takmg applications 
ROOM HOUSE. CALL 233·4425. 
Wealthy student desperately needs NEED RIDE To North NJ Any Weekend MICH student tix. Call Dan 6863 
$1.00 to Box 25097C, Los Angeles, x3669 1420 for part-t1me positions. Work schedule 90025. (213) 477·8226. can be adjusted to your class schedule.
KEN 8605 
NEED 3 TIX FOR PURDUE GAME AND 3 FOR SALE: Pair of Mich. tixs on 35-yd. Day and mght positions open. Wa1ters.
NEED 2 GAS FOR MICH GAME. CALL IS YOUR HAIR GETTING IN THE WAY 
TIX FOR MIAMI GAME CALL KATHY AT line. Call Dave 3673 waitresses must be 21. Apply 1n person.
NANCY AT 1273 OF YOUR STUDIES?? CALL MICHOLE 

1833. FOR A HAIRCUT TODAY! ONLY $4 FOR Sale me your Mich. tixs. Call Dave 3673. Did you see my ad in the tix sect1on? Go 
FOR SALE: 4·6 M1ch1gan tickets inGUYS AND $6 FOR GIRLS BEST TO 


FOR SALE 
I need 2·6 GA tkts to Mich game. T1m 288· back and cons1der II carefullyCALL AFTER 3 AT 7850 
vanous locations. Call Dave at 3673 


0725 Mich student or GA tic. call Joe 8930 Wil· Marty
anytime. ling to pay $50 cash my Purdue t1cket for 1 PORTRAITS-Drawn or Painted from life. 
Students-Student wants to trade 2 Mi. ~tu· Joe89301977 MGB. yellow. Good condition, Call Need 1 M1ch. GA or Student t1cket ·DougAsk for Dale Mainer at the 
dent tickets cash for 2 Mich Gas so my 
Didn't we tell you? Didn't we tell you? It
291-6713 after 5. Weekends anyt1me. 6166 
parents can come see the game. Please had to happen Shocked that Molinelli left Learn Flying for $350 Call277·6726 
call Bob-268·6402 The Observer. Gary Trudeau qUits draw1ng Doonesbury 1n disgust. He 
Need Gu1tar Strings? Acoustic and Desperately need two GA snow for M1am1 
Electric. Also picks and other access. Call game. Big Bucks. Call Joe 1469 WORD PROCESSING SYSTEM $2995 

PERSONALS
Destined for eliminatton tf I don·t come up knows that wthout Molarity appeanngKathy at 6780. 
64K Microcomputer,letler quality printer, 

w1th 1 student or GA t1cke t for Mich. above Doonesbury, 1fs not worth even word process1ng software, CP/M, Bas1c. 
Need Mich. student & Purdue GAs 289· 

7640 game. Call Kev1n at 1441 try1ng to be funny. 
4 ND·Mich t1ckets. $50 per Mel 277·
Call 277 • 7720 0000, COURAGEOUS He thought Molarity was gone forever 
0692 WILL PAY $35 FOR MICHIGAN STU· NEED FOUR MICHIGAN GA TICKETS 
What he didn "t know was that Molarity IS CAR PROBLEMS?? I AM A QUALIFIED MOLARITY LIVES/I back!!
DENT TICKET--JOHN 8172. CALL Pat: 277-1836' WORD PROCESSING SYSTEM. $2995 MECHANIC WITH LOTS OF EX· 64K Microcomputer. letler quality pnnter. 
PERIENCE AND LOWER RATES THAN 

Will trade 2·4 M1ch. GAs tor 2-4 P1tt GA·s ATTENTION Need tickets to M1chigan Salespeople wanted for Scholastic MOLARITY: NO OUTLETword process1ng software, CP/M, Bas1cANY GARAGE!! CALL TODAY FOR A Call AL3543 call Lou at 8760 or 8773 advertising. If mterested, call Bnan at The third and final Molarity book 1sCall277·7720.
FREE ESTIMATE JOHN AT 1852 1082. hot off the presses With more cartoons Desperately need 2 PURDUE GA·s NEED 1 TIX FOR MICH GAME G.A OR than ever before st1ll at the low. low, LOW 
pnce of $2 95 Rush out nght now and buy Call277-7415 to be nch? Want to be successful? For one from a bookstore near you!! HAVE 2 MICH GAS WILL TRADE FOR 2 more 1nfo. wnte to: JOE CAMPBELL AS­NO WAITII Due to unprecedented NEED 2 GA OR STUDENT TIX FOR 
Parents want to see the lnsh Please help. STUD. MARK 287-5208$$$ Want to succeed in the classroom? Want 
PENN STATE.MIAMI,OR PURDUE SOCIATES, 26 Dnvers Lane. Laurel demand by some JBrks who have refused 
GAS CASHCALL JOHN 1188 Spnngs. NJ 08021 Sales reps. wanted. to buy a book Without an autograph, Buy the Book Press 1s holding PURDUE GAME!! CALL MARTHA 3727 
HELP-I still need 2 Miami st.tix or the 
N LOST: A set of keys LOST: A mega BOSTON CLUB Important orgamzat1onal 
fam1ly 1n NYC w1ll take me for a long tnp NEED TICKETS: I need 1 m1ch1gan stu· 
amount of keys on a key ring w1th the Need 2 PURDUE GAS for parents. Call MEETING MONDAY, SEPT 13, 7 p m AN AUTOGRAPH PARTY
AvOid a gu1lty consc1ence·. call x3234 ask dent tix. three purdue GAs. Please call 
name tag olDave. Lost lastThurs. lffound Lesl1e 288-1734 (best late) LaFortune All interested must attend Yes. yes. yes. Michael Molinelli w1ll be
for Marty. a real n1ce guy w1th more BRIAN at 1064.$$$$$$$ 
call3673. back sigmng books on Thursday Sept.
money than sense NEED GA"s FOR MICHIGAN. PURDUE. 
Need Purdue GAs or student t1x. Call Bud BOSTON CLUB MEETING MON. 13th 7 l61n the basement of LaFortune at p.m. FOUND· One calculator. Call Gary 1223. at 255·5348 p.m LaFortune Those upperclassmen There s no excuse anymore!!! Brought to
Hi. I'm Smilin" Mark and all I need is 1 MICH ST. AND MIAMI. CALL CHRIS· present tor last year s organ meetmg you by Buy the Book Press We wrote the measly student ticket lor M1ch1gan. It"s for 1730
$1 DO cash reward offered for return of NEED 2 MICHIGAN GAS, CALL RICK must atlend Top1cs-M1ch game and book on Chapter 11 
my litlle brother and. well, he s really been 
swtcase. Large, Lark suttcase with gtrl's AT 8652 years activ1t1es. Call M1ke 277-3276 1f
looking forward to th1s one. Why don·t you BIG BUCKS for 2 GA TIX"S to PURDUE
clothing lost on August 27 probably near any problems
make his day bright and my wallet light · game ALSO sellmg 1 STUDENT TIX to 
Main Circle bus shelter. Please call 255· One M1ch1gan ticket for sale. Haq 239
call x3244 PU.RDUE 
3068. 7139 KNIGHTS and LADIES of COLUMBUS! AN AUTOGRAPH PARTYII/
CALL ELAINE at 7951 Meet1ng tomght at 7:30 1n the K of C Hall w1th Michael Molinelli. author ofRICH FRIENDS NEED MICH GA"S.
lost: Gold cross on gold chain. If found, NEED ONE STUDENT OR GA TICKET for all Interested 1n 10in1ng NO's ONLY MOLARITY: NO OUTLET
NAME YOUR PRICE!! CALL STEVE HELP'!! NEED 3 GA"s for PURDUE 
call Don. 288·3051 TO MICHIGAN BIG BUCKS. CALL fratern1ty. BE THERE!! 
1553 GAME CALL EILEEN 3897 

SCOTT AT 8637 Thursday. Sept. 16 
Steven Spielberg had nothing to do With Need 1 Purdue T1cket! Call Dan at 1744 MOLARITY: NO OUTLET. The book that 3p.m
NEED 4 MICH AND 2 PURDUE GAS · HELP' I NEED 4 TIX FOR THE MIAMI GAME SO MY DADS DRUNKEN BUDDIES CAN JOIN IN THE FUN WITH 
WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR I KEVIN 1770 
FOR RENT 
Will never gross over $100 m1lhon 
HIM CALL DAN 4603. NAME YOUR DESPERATE! NEED 2 GAs FOR MIAMI Brought to you by Buy the Book Press. Basement of LaFortune 
wanted: tix for etther the mtchigan and/or 
WILL PAY! CALL SUSAN 6983 the company that 1s quickly becom1ng a Michael's mother Will be there. too purdue home football games. w111 pay PRICE non~profit organization.
bucks deluxe! Call Matl277-4573.
Furnished home, 2 blocks from campus. 

NEED U-M V. NO STUDENT TIX PAY$$ Also country house, 10 mins. from NO. HELP! Dad desperately needs GAs for MOLARITY: NO OUTLET Therese
CALL TOM at 232·2533I NEED 2 OR 3 MICH TIX. CALL JASPER

Call277-3604 or 288·0955. Anzona; please sa-ve me from having to Almost funny .. /like you a lot, too. AT 277-3276. 

live in South Bend year-round Need 4 PatNEED ONE MIAMI GA TICKET CALL 
GA"s at any cost. Call Rick at 2921. Help! Mom & Dad are coming for their 1st HAMIL AT 1527 
Lloyd, you are Immoral but there's hope
game in 4 years! 1"11 buy or trade for 1 or 2 Need Many MICHIGAN GA TIX Please 
!listen to this .
student or GA MICHIGAN tix. Please call Need 2 t1x lor Purdue. Call Rene at 284· 
call Tom at 1171


WANTED -~ 

Jimat3211. 5458. Thanks. ­ARTIFICIAL BIRTH CONTROL: Is there 
ENMESHED IN THIS COSMOS I need 2 Purdue GA's. PLEASEIIII Call another way? Yes Natural Family Plan­
$$$ NEED DESPERATELY 3 TIX TO I halle 2 MIAMI OF FLORIDA, ARIZONA. 
NEEDED: 2 STUDENT TICKETS FOR John Higgins at 287-4186 (nights) or ning is SAFE. HEALTHY. EFFECTIVE
ANY HOME FOOTBALL GAME. WILL and PURDUE tickets. Will trade 2 of anySEPT. 25 PURDUE GAME CALL ANNE MORALLY ACCEP· TABLE Lost or stolen. a bifold wallet. 11 you have 
23e-5323 end LEAVE A MESSAGEif and
PAY MEGA BUCKS. CALL MAURA AT one for 2 of another. Call Scott a13272. 
Everyone inv1ted to learn more on Tues~
4057or CARRIE 4167 th1s wallet please return it. It conta1ns
4594. Dad wants to see me play in the band/ 
day Sept. 14. 7:30 pm, Galvin L1fe some things of great value to me No
F"o·Fi·sA·cE:·;;·M·,~;;··;:;A·4o.~d··~;~~·;;~k;;;: 
Sc1ence and
NEEDED: 5 G.A"S FOR OCT. 9 MIAMI MICH! NEED 2 PAIR GAS· HELP! CALL Need 2 GA"s to Arizona, Penn or Purdue Aud. Engaged mamed questions will be asked '' it !S r~tL.irn 1will 
..
best offer, Kim at 288·1917. couples call237·7401 to reg1ster for class 
GAME WILL NEGOTIATE COST CALL KEVIN at 1580 Call Claire 6841 g1ve a reward for your honesty. If you can 
MAUREEN 5506 OR ANNE 4057 starting on campus Wed. Sept.22. be of any help. please call J1m at 1380 
Notre Dame basketball greats Adrian Dantley, Off-campus studentsinterested in coaching any o­
Kelly Tripucka and Austin Carr, and 15 other former Notre Dame c teams this fall are asked to contact Mick DePaolo, the off-campus players will be returning to the ACC September 18 to partictpate in athletic commissioner, at 234-5556 for information regarding fees, the Logan Center Benefit Basketball Game. The game is being or­insurance, deadlines, etc. -The Observer ganized by Notre Dame assistant basketball coaches Gary Brokaw and John Shumate, both former Irish All-Americans who will play in the game. "It will be a great opportunity for all of us to help give something back to the South Bend community and enable local fans to do the same," said Brokaw. Tip-off is set for 1 p.m. on Saturday, ND Hang Gliding Club is being organized. Call 
Ted Toerne at 287-7717 for information. -The ObserverSeptember 18, just seven hours before Notre Dame opens its 1982 football season against Michigan at Notre Dame Stadium. Tickets are $6 in the lower arena and S4 for upper arena. Tickets are selling fast at Gate 10 of the ACC. -The Observer 
The Fellowship of Christian Athletes 
will hold its first weekly meeting tonight 7 in the Howard Hall social space. All are invited to attend. -The Observer 
SMC tennis team defeated Illinois-Chicago Circle Friday in Chicago, 8-1. The Belles are now 2-0 on the season. -The ND wrestling team will begin mandatory condition­Observer ing workouts today 4 p.m. in the wrestling room of the ACC. Fresh· 
man not already signed up are especially requested to attend. For more information call Brother Joe Bruno at 239·7454. -The Ob­server 
Irish SOCCer team tied for third place in the Flower City Invitational in Rochester, N.Y. this weekend. In Friday's opening 
Irish fencing team will hold an organizationalgame, Syracuse defeated Notre Dame 3·1. In Saturday's consolation meeting tonight at 7:30 in room 411 ofthe Administration Building. 
game, the Irish outshot Georgetown, 33·5, but failed to score. After Saint Mary's students are welcome. No previous experience is neces­two overtimes, the game was called a draw. The Irish are now 1-1·1. 
sary. -the Observer -The Observer 
ND track and field team will hold an organizational Larry Moriarity and Blair Kiel will be the meeting Wednesday, Sept. 15 at 3:45p.m. in the ACC Auditorium. Any men interested in participating should attend. -The Observer 
guests tomorrow night on WSND's ( AM-64) Speaking ofSports. Lis­teners may talk with the guests by calling 239-6400 or 239·7425. ­
The Observer 

ND-SMC Cycle Club is having an organizational meeting tomorrow at 6:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Officers 
ND field hockeywon its season opener Friday night at 
will be elected. -The Observer Cartier Field. The Irish defeated DePauw University, 6-0. Junior Clare Henry scored three goals in the contest. the Irish travel to Taylor tomorrow. -The Observer 
See SPORTS BRIEFS, page 9 
b~ard 


NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE NATIONAL CONFERENCE East 

w L T Pet. PF PA Washington 1 0 01.000 37 34 St. Louis 1 0 01 000 21 7 Dallas 0 0 0 .000 0 0 Philadelphia 0 1 0 .000 34 37 
N.Y. G1ants 0 1 0 000 14 16 
Central Green Bay 1 0 01 000 35 23 Detrott 1 0 01.000 17 10 Mtnnesota 1 0 01.000 17 10 Chicago 0 0 .000 10 17 Tampa Bay 0 1 0 .000 10 17 
West Atlanta 1 0 01.000 16 14 New Orleans 0 
0 000 7 21 LA Rams 0 0 .000 23 35 San Francisco 0 0 .000 17 23 
AMERICAN CONFERENCE East w L T Pet. PF PA Mtamt 
0 01.000 45 28 
New England 1 0 01 000 24 13 Buffalo 1 0 01 000 14 9 NY. Jets 0 1 0 000 28 45 
Baltimore 0 1 0 .000 13 24 Central Cinctnnatt 1 0 01 000 27 6 Cleveland 1 0 01.000 21 7 Pittsburgh 0 0 0 000 0 0 Houston 0 1 0 000 6 27 West San Diego 1 0 01 000 23 3 LA. Raiders 1 0 01.000 23 17 Kansas City 0 1 0 000 9 14 Seattle 0 0 .000 7 21 Denver 0 0 .000 3 23 
Yeaterday's Results Detroit 17, Ch1cago 10 Cincinnati 27. Houston 6 Buffalo 14. Kansas City 9 St. Louis 21. New Orleans 7 M1nnesota 17. Tampa Bay 10 
Washington 37, Philadelphia 34, OT Green Bay 35, Los Angeles Rams 23 Atlanta 16, New York Giants 14 New England 24. Baltimore 13 
See SPORTSBOARD, page 9 

The Observer Monday, September 13, 1982 -page 9 
• • . Sportsboard 
Bnan Wachter v LUIS Galhp

AMERICAN LEAGUE
continuedfrom page 8 
Mark Palask1 v Pat Jeffers w L Pet. GB 
East 
John C1erzmak v Warren Berry Tom Jacobs v Dean Oman

Milwaukee 84 59 587
M1am1 45, New York Jets 28 
B1ll GroJean v Scott Sulent1ch 

Balt1more 80 61 567 3
Cleveland 21. Seattle 7 Steve Slaughter v John DeFrances
Boston 79 62 560 4
San D•ego 23. Denver 3 John G1bbs v B1ll Casey
New York 73 68 518 10
Los Angeles Ra1ders 23. San Franc1sco 17 
George Jordan v Tom Berens Today's Game 
Detro1t 71 69 507 11.5 
Kevtn o·Bnen v Bob W1cke Pittsburgh at Dallas, 8 p m 
Cleveland 68 72 .486 14.5 
B1ll Hardiman v M1ke Vanderbeck

Toronto 65 78 455 19 
Dave Sobczac" Paul Samanant
West 
John Geelan v Joseph Dawney

Kansas C1ty 81 61 570 
Michael Breen v T1m Gnffen

Cahforn1a 80 62 563 1 
Dan Zelazny v Jeff Chow

Ch1cago 76 65 539 45
BASEBALL 
Frank Leyes v Mark Harmon 

Seattle 67 74 475 13 5 
Ne1l Hutchmson v Kev1n Dransfield. 

Oakland 60 83 420 21 5 
John Gray v Joe Re1dy

Texas 57 85 401 24 
Tony Ehler v Charles Franc1s. 

M1nnesota 50 92 352 31 
Dan Dawson v Joe Schaeffer NATIONAL LEAGUE 
J1m Plamondon v John McGreeney East Yesterday's Results 

Terry Walker v Bnan Walker w L Pet. GB 
New York 9. Mtlwaukee 8 <Scott Bevdo v Bnan WelseyCleveland 3, Balt1more 0 
St LOUIS 79 62 .560 Barry Fay v LoUie Somogyt
Boston 1 0. Detro1t 7
Ph1ladelph1a 79 63 556 Davtd Goulett v Dave Tracey. 
Kansas C1ty 18 Minnesota 7
Montreal 77 65 542 2.5 Tom LentnQer v Steve Stmone 
Cahforma 3, Toronto 2
P1ttsburgh 76 66 535 35 Peter Poko,rny v Steve Liska
Oakland 4. Ch1cago 2 
Chtcago 61 82 427 19 Alex Sz1lvas v Chns lshtkawa
Seattle 1. Texas 0
New York 56 !\4 400 22.5 Jerry Walker v Steve Bolet
Today's Games 
West John Ztebert v Mtke M1chaux 
New York (Howell 1·1) at Balt1more (D Martmez 14· Atlanta 80 63 559 Jack Etsenbe1s v Kevm Howard
11), n Los Angeles 80 64 ~ 5 Thomas Guns v Mtke Shnver
Cleveland (Whitson 3·2 and Anderson 3·1) at Boston San Franc1sco 74 68 .521 5.5 Pat Gee v Lou1s Welsh
(Boyd 0·0 and Ra1ney 7·4). t·n. San D•ego 74 John Paskowskt v Jtm Landsman
69 517 6 Milwaukee (Haas 11·8) at Detroit (Utdur 9·8), n John Gaerlan v Rowell ReyesHouston 65 78 .455 15 Cal1forma (W1tt 8·5) at Chicago (Dotson 11·11). n Larry Hau v Ken Soergel C1nclinat• 53 90 371 27 Texas (Mason 0·0) at Mmnesota (Withams 7·7). n Chns Z1mmerman v Paul Ztmmer 
Seattle (Moore 7·10) at Kansas C1ty (Blue 12·9), n. 
M1ke Hay v Rob Hegl1n

Yesterday's Results Only games scheduled Pittsburgh 4. Philadelphia 2 
Peanuts Tsuch1yama v. B1ll Mitchell 
John Bosco v Steve Liska.

Atlanta 4, Cinc1nnat1 3 

Alan Bell v Larry DuncanNew York 4. St. LoUis 1 
Montreal 11, Ch1cago 3 Los Angeles 7, Houston 3 
Novice Men's Singles

Only games scheduled Today's Games 
Matt 0 Toole v Paul Montgomery 

Bill Parente v. Randy Richter. 9), n. B1ll McGowan v. John Dunn 
St.l.ou1s (B Forsch 14·8) at Philadelphia (Carlton 19· 
INTERHALL TENNIS PAIRINGS
Ch1cago (Ripley 4·7) at Pittsburgh (D. Rob1nson 15· Jtm Gardner v. Matt Revord. 
First-round games must be completed and scores8),n. 
called 1n to the NVA office 12 noon by Tuesday, Sep·
Houston (J. Niekro 14·10) at Atlanta (P. Niekro 14·3), 
tember 21. No extensions Will be granted. If your
n Women'-8 Single• 
name is not listed, you have a bye and should look for
San D1ego (Eichelberger 7·12) at Los Angeles (Welch Sarah Malrnsky v. Ginny Blissert 

your name 1n next week s pa1nngs 
15·10), n. 
Advanced Men's Singles
C1ncinnat1 (Pastore 8·1 0) at San Franc1sco (Barr 4·3), 
Paul R1nghofer v. John Hearn 
• • . SportsBriefs 
continuedfrom page 8 
The women's trackand cross-country club will hold an organizational meeting tonight at 7:30 in the basement of Breen· Phillips. Ifyou need more information or if you ;.tf": unable to attend, contact Yvie Allmaras ( 1349) or Rose Marie Luking ( 6896). -The Observer 
New deadlines have been announced by the office of Non·Varsity Athletics. Deadlines for grad football, the golfteam tour· ney, men's intt:rhall soccer, outdoor volleyball, and co-ree water polo are tomorrow. Deadline for entry in the interhall cross-country meet for men and women is September 21. -The Obsen•er 
The ND Women's Fastpitch Softball Club will 
hold a mandator\" meeting for anyone intere~ted in playing softball this season tonight at ..., in the Lewis Hall basement. Contact Chris Callahan at :'>H-t..., if you have any questions.-Tbe Obsen•er 
Irish volleyball team won two of five matches at the Wolverine Invitational on Saturday. The Irish defeated Lake Su· perior State, 16·1 't, --1 ;, 1;.7; lost to Michigan, 11·1 ;, 1;.7; lost to Wavne State, 1S-11. ;.1 5, 6-1 5; defeated Grand Valley, 1;.13, 1;.9; and. lost to Wayne State in the semifinals, 12·1 ;, 6-1 ;. The Irish are now 3· 3 on the season. -The Observer 

Presentation 

starts Friday at University Park Theater 

Mary Easterday v. Amy Brannon. 
Kathy McDonneol v. Kelly Frank 
L1sa Hem1ng v. Betsy Klug. 
Anne Zimmerman v. Amy Facmelh. 
Mary Evans v. Joanne Swteclak. 
Lone Keating v ~Jnn Konesky. 
Ahson Yurko v. Nora Lynch. 
Susan Saker v Debb•e T omknorty 
Mary Schmid v. Kathy lmmonen 
Katy Nowalk v T1na Coin. 
Therese Re1lly v. Trrc1a Huberty 
Ftft Paratso v. Laune Keahng. 
Lynn Casella v. L1nda Cleveland. 
MarJorre Delapena v. Ann Bailey 
Susan Gordon v. Ktnena Navarro 
Mixed Doubles Yurko·Raef1s1o v Klug-Curis Croft·Hickey v Graham·Gro1ea Grojean-Baumel v. Wilkas-Muno. H1ghducheck v. Loeser-Cornett. Stevenson-Vanderbeck v. Kenny-Castro. Facineii1-E1Senbets v Chnstt-Sobczak Dav1d·Danc1 v McKay-Olson. K1rshgessner-Brown v. Weber-McGowan Jantz-Zelazny v. Sulhvan-Shnver 
Dobrowski·Troy v Swe1d1ak·Straub 
Balane·Kilpatrrck v. Clement-Olson 
Hem•ng·Eichenlaub v Huberty·Mart•n 
Hrrsh·Goulet v. O"Brren-Kromkowskl 
Doyle·lshaug v. Para1so·O·Grady 
Schwebei-Reyes v. Keattng-Piemonden. 
H1II·Fay v. F1tzgerald·O"Brren 
Saker·Coga v Keller·Daoud 
lmmonon-Gassner v Tomkowttz-E1sengruber 
Pavm-W1Ikas v Mtddleton-Hogan 
Derengowskt-Defeo v Hackett-Gergen 
Keat1ng-Plamonden v Callts-Cox 
Grad-Student Singles Valenta v Mehnert Neny v 0 Leary Castro v Roberts 

Ken Anderson of the Cincinnati Bengals, the Most Valuable Player of the NFL last season, completed 29 of40 passes for 354 yards yesterday, leading the Bengals to a 27·6 triumph over the 
Houston Oilers. (AP) 
OBGANIZATIONAL MEETING for NEIGHBORHOOD STUDY HELP PROGRAM on Mon. Sept. 13, 7:30pm 
N.D. Architecture Bldg. 
We tutor grade school children in South Bend. 
Come learn about the program sign up. 
Jim Baglini 1601 (ND) Kathleen Culhane 5140 
*******************} 
-:­



ggo ** * * 
* 
* 

Arby's Reg. Boast ** 
* 
* 


Beef Sandwich * 
* 
* 

This is our way of saying * thanks for your business *
*
* 

No Coupon Needed!! 
*

A ABBY'S BOAST BEEF * * 


BESTAUBANT * 
SOUTH BEND 16545 Cleveland Road (by University Mall)· Granger


ArbyX® 
* 

1807 Lincoln Way East (near Playland) * 3425 Lincoln Way West (near LaSalle Square) 
c':> *
710 W. McKinley (at Town and Country)· Mishawaka 4615 Miami Road (at Scotsdale Mall) 
* 

52709 U.S. 31 North (near North Village Mall) 
* 

r 
~ 
The Observer Monday, September 13, 1982 -page I 0 
...Baseball 

... 
While the varsif}' was in Roc:hester, Nl'; Notre Dame'.sjunior l'Ur· si~y soccer squad tied Gosben Aurora, 1-I. (Photo bv Scott BowerJ 
OW. fi<F f -l'tlf '\-ft\:f 'H\fk"f' 

C{)IWHIJNIIC!lllii()N {J llriEAIJ~E presents the monday night film series II 
...................................It •• Q ••• 
• Sememo~r 13 • 
TONIGHT• 
! Spellbound ·: .. · ~ · •· k .. , ~-:~ ,·~A B!. ,., • ·-: •· • ~opp<.,·ch~<f'l, .....,_•.• -·~·r> ..!c •• ('.'J""r-lnq;>aH>:''Q..,.ol"" a : 
• 0·-, ~ ~!·•<;! !:t· " • .• ,· :· '-··~.::n•v D~~ -i" amn,..._a, ,.•r-'f1r'lt: • 
:, ~~ ~~:~.~:~~:. ~~~·.· ~~~~:~. 0~~,: :::~: :.~~~. o~ ·~~;~~tl~r ~~~~:··.~~~/r1;:~~:··.:.'r~_'.'; : 
· -·• ·· .....1... • ct~to aowr a .;;,.,
...."...................................1 
9 pm Annen berg Aud ., Snite Museum. Admission $2 


continuedfrom page 12 

point and was behind '"'-6 when 
Amos Otb hit a two-run single and 
put the Royals on top h>r good. 

It was the t1fth tim this season that 
Otis got a hit after the previous hat· 
ter was walked mtcntional11· lit' has 
driven in 12 runs on those: occa­
sion,. 

Aikens· second homer ('ame in the 
eighth after Frank \X'hire homered 
and Ct'~ar (jt·ronimo slugged the 
third home run ofthe inning. 

Dodgers 7 Astros3 

HOliSTON ( AP) -Stcn· Crarvey droVt· in thn·t· runs with a pair of singks to kad Los Angele~ to a -1 victory over the Hou..,ton Astros. keeping the Dodgers w1thin a half. game of llrst-place Atlanta in the Na· tiona! League \), est race 
Dave :-.tcwart. '>· 7, pitched _, 2-1 innings in relief of 'tartl'f HH'k\ Wright forth<: victory. Frank DiPmo. I ·I, took the loss. 
The: Astros scored twice in the 
first inning on Ray Knight'~ sacritkc 
tly and Alan Ashhy's run-scoring 
~inglt-. hut Lo~ Angek~ took com 
mand with a five-run fourth inning. 

Angels 3 · Blue jays 2 
ANAHEIM. Calif. (AP) -Doug DeCince~ hit two run-scoring double~ as the California Angels heat the Toronto Blue_lays j-2. 
Tommy John, 12·1 I. walked one and struck out one in his t1rst win· 
f11DUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII: 
iTBAIN TO BE AMEMBER OF~ ~ ANOUTSTANDINiiTEAM ~ 
: : ~ Tbe U.S. ArmyDeserve in tbe South~ §Bendarea needs men to become § Truck Drivers. Tbe Army will g provide tbe troiniDg and ossign you~ to aunit near bome, You will earn ~ at least $1 000 ayear lor weekend ~ drills and DDDUal troiniDg. ~ You mlqbl also qualify for a$1500l 
•cosh bonus or up to $4000lor ! ~coUege. For more inlormalion, call ! ~your Army Deserve Dec:ruiler today:~ 
: ~.................., Slit Canty ················~ : 


i 234-4187 ~ 
,...........................................................,
:............................................................. 
~~~ 
NOTRE DAME vs. MICHIGAN HOME NIGHT GAME SaturdCJv. September 18, 1982 


~ Special Attractions *******************.. 
.....SPECIALHOURS. SPECIALMENU. ·Open noon tol am. Featuring our regular dinner menu including all your 
Bar-B·Oue favorites. Famous low prices too! 
SPECIAL CARRY OUT SERVICE· By popular demand: our Hickory smoked ribs and chicken offered 'to go'. Call ahead for details and prompt service. 
SPECIAL SANDWICH MENU. Not available any other time, but for this event. Extra generous B-B-0 Beef, french dip, ham and swiss -each only$4.25or Chicken Teriyaki at$4.95. 
Special Late Night 

* EARTHSHAKERS $2.00 

SPECIAL 3drinks in oroe
* BUCKETS OF BOOZE $4.00 
SPECIAL 6oz of booze 
* PITCHERS OF BREW 
SPECIAL :t;J.75 

62886 us 31 North

*LITRES OF MARGARlTAS South Bend. 272-&478 
SPECIAL $4.95 11 PM -2:30AM in the lou11_9.e only 
ning start at Anaheim Stadium since 
August, 1971. wlwn he was pitching Red Sox 10 for the Chicago Whtte Sox. The veteran left-hamkr is 2-1 since Tigers 7 being acquirnl by the Angels from thl' New York Yankees Aug. 31. 
:-.uccc:ssive doubte., hy Reggie BOSTON ( AP) -Dwight Evans 
Jackson and DeCinces triggered a and Gary Allenson drove in three two-run rally in th(· second against runs each to lead a 15-hit attack that Jim Clancy, 12-1-J DeCinces scored powered the Boston Red Sox to a lO­on a double by.Juanlkniquez to give -victory over the Detroit Tigers. 
the Angels a 2-0 lead. Ch t L 1 · h. h h 
• . . . c: emon lH IS l4t omer of 
h>llowmg smgles hv Rod Carew the •e· •on h h · 
. : .. ,, a., . a t ree-run s ot, m the 
and Jackson m the: tlmd, DeCmces fir•t (Jff Brt· D b 
. . 

delivered hts second Hill uoubk. 
The Angeb set a smglc-sea~>on at 
tendann· record of 2,526,36.., with 
yesterd~y·, cnmd of 25._>,94. 
Pirates 4 Ph1lbes 3 
PI l'TSBl:HCH ( AP 1 --Dale Berra 
<..hove in three run~ with a bases­
loaded douhl<: in lhe sixth inning to 
lift the Pittsburgh Pirates to a 4-L vic­
ton ovt r the Philadelphia Phillies. 
IJavl Parker, rt·rurning to tht: 
Pirates· starting lineup for the fir.'>t 
time since rupturing ligament~ in hb 
right thumb July .!H. had three hit~ 
and scored two of the Pirates' runs. 
\X' inning pircht:r Hick Rhoden. 10­
•2. knocked in till' t1rst Pirate run with a two-out single in the second inning Parker ,ingled off Larry Christenson, H-lc ro lead off the second. Two outs later, Ste\'e 
Nicosia was intentionally walked and Rhoden delivered his RBI single to left. 


r~·coM1>T.EfE·--~ ~ BEAUTY : ~ SERVICE ~ 
~FASHION I ~ FLAIR ~ ~ BEAUTY~ ~,,, SALON. 
11 

~ *REDKIN ~ ~ -SCIENTIFIC ~ ~ HAIR CARE CENTER~ 
~ Precision Cutting, Perms. ~ t Correcting Hair Coloring ~ 
~ Next to Cira's Restaurant ~ ~ Evenings by Appt. ~ 
~ 2009 Miami ~ 
~ 288-0733 ~ 
.....................~...........,..._..........................,...A 
·' an enman, ut 8 oston 
got two back in the bottom of the inning on a single by Jerry Remy, a triple by Evans and a double bv Carl Yastrzemski. · 
... Football 
continuedfrom page 12 

Miami, which ~cored the most 
poinL~ ever in the series between the 
two team1>, also fooled the highly­
regarded Jets' uefense with a trick 
plav. Operating out of the shotgun on ·a tliird-and-1 0 situation on the :-.lew York 15, Woodly lateraled the snap to Nathan. who started to sweep right, then pivoted and threVI. back across th{' field to Woodlev for a touchdown for a 31-14 lead. · 
Redskins 37 Eagles 34 

PHIL-\DELPHIA (AP) -Mark 
Moseley's 26-yard t1eld goal 4:4'7 in­
to overtime gave the Washington 
Red~kins a 37-34 victory over the 
Philadelphia. 

.\1oseley, who sent the game into overtime with a 48-yard field goal as regulation time ran out, kicked his winner after Joe Theismann had completed passes of28 and 27 yards to tight end Art Monk on Washing­ton's only overtime possession. Philadelphia lost the toss and never got its hands on the ball in the extra period. 
Theismann completed 28 of 39 
passes for 382 yards and three 
touchdowns, while his counterpart, 
Philadelphia quarterback Ron 
Jaworski, hit 27 of 38 for 371 yards 
and two scores. 

The Eagles, trailing 31-27, ap­
peared to pull out a 34-31 victory. 
when Jaworksi's 4-yard touchdown 
pass was caught by wide receiver 
Harold Carmichael, who tipped the 
ball and grabbed it while flat on his 
back in the left corner of the end 
zone. 

That came with I :04 to go, but 
Theismann drove the Redskins from 
their own 3 7 to the Philadelphia 31­
yard line, then Moseley kicked his 
48-yarder. 


THERE I\I~LL BE Rf:1EET~~(j f[]R FJLL ~[t~E [0~~1r o RfelJJ[[]ftrlfltA!tig C[[J]f?\1 lt[]~lf[[J]R~ ~~[OJ ~lt[ruS [t[O~lf[]JlRJS TUE~IJRY RT l;:~g. f:1EET ~r.i fR(]r.iT (]f THE Lflf[]RTU~E L~TT LE THEflTER. 



1---­
Ihe~crer======================================== 


T0 de~:x=============M=o=n=d=ay='=s=e=p=te=m=b=e=r=I=3='=I=9=8=2==p=a=ge=I=I=
Doonesbury 

~--------------~ 


ff:l' !1 {)).J r aJl/E. HE M~ Cf 11MT .. fouLL tOO: sYJEOIJn Uf. Ol}T."CK.Af' I'M /.,k)T 
A CHILD'~ 

The Daily Crossword 
-:-::--r.-:--r:-:-T:"::'-, 

ll,£11 lET ME ~'/ THIS) 
~If<: NOiRE DR HE'S fiR.":>\ CD-ED CO<.lPlE 
fiRE <SHT lNG-ALONG­SPLENDIDLY! 

ACROSS 33 Time of 1 Big hit note 5 Dress 34 Debatable 
style 35 Heraldic 10 Hemingway, bearings 
to friends 36 Steep rock 14 Sheltered 37 Freudian 15 Burdened terms 16 Yale men 38 Bacchana­17 Immaculate lian cries 20 Gathers 39 Sew loosely 21 Colored 40 Unnecessary 
ring 42 Plant 22 Annoys again 23 Medical 43 Out of this 
study: abbr. world 24 Swiss city 44 Horse-drawn 27 Autocrat vehicle 

..,..,.....+--+---l 31 Ascended 45 Graduate 32 "Gay-" 48 Plunderers
Friday's Solution 


We qre trying to compile q complete listing of musiciqns on cqmpus--if you wish to be included, 
call or write John Warnoch at : 
3 11 Keenqn tiGII x3319 



Campus 

•4 
p.m. -Interview Skills Workshop, Student Affairs Conference Room, LeMans Hall, SMC, free 

•7 
p.m. -Meeting, Fellowship of Christian Ath­letes Weeldy Meeting, Howard Hall Social Space 

•Meeting-Knights 
ofColumbus Meeting for all Members, K ofC Hall, Sponsored by K ofC 

•7 
p.m. -Meeting, Abiogenesis Dance Collective Organizational Meetng, little Theatre, LaFortune 

•7:30 
p.m. -Meeting, K of C Meeting for all in­terested in joining, K ofC Hall, Sponsored by KofC 

•7:30 
p.m. -Forum, Writers and Other Troubadours, Ernest Sandeen, The Cornucopia Restaurant, SI.50 


T.V. Tonight 
6p.m. 16 22 28 34 
7p.m. 16 22 28 34 
8p.m. 16 
22 28

Sven)ohnson 
34 9:30p.m. 34 10p.m. 16 22 34 10:30p.m. 16 22 11p.m. 28 11:30p.m. 16 28 
52 Clearout 23 Buenos-totally 24 Boywho 54 Notion hangs out 
NewsCenter 16 22 Eyewirness News Newswatch 28 The MacNeiVLehrer Repon 
M•A•s•H Family Feud Tic Tac Dough Straight Talk Uttle House on the Prairie Billy Graham/New England Crusade 
That's Incredible Great Performances Monday Night at the Movies "Murder in Texas Pt.!" 
M•A•s•H ABC Monday Night Football Pitts­burgh at Dallas 
Tonight Scandinavia The River in the Desert NewsCenter 16 
22Eyewitness News The Dick Cavett Show Tonight Show Quincy & Colombo Newswatch 28 Late Night with David Letterman ABC News Nightline 

55 Rich cake on the 56 Region streets 57 Org. 25 Destroy 58 Filled to slowly 
the brim 26 Snare 59 Sharp 27 Valleys barks 28 Concise 29 Taketo DOWN the stump 1 Johann 30 Stormed Sebastian-32 Commonplace 2 Nazimova 35 Hams it up of early 36 Marooned 



... 
movies one 
3 Prognosti-38 Verdugo cator of films 4 Most 39 Floating 
ponderous ice masses 5 "Seward's 41 Degrade Folly" 42 Camedown 
6 Endures heavily 7 Lupino and 44 Largebox 
Cantor 45 Bowfin 8 Modem 46 Striplings 9 Heightens 47 Hawaiian 
10 Spanish guitars, money for short 11 Choir 48 Lahrthe voice comedian 12 Medicinal 49 Saint tablet Philip­
13 Cruising 50 Profound 18 Audacity 51 Health 19 Hot under resorts 
the collar 53 Mauna­


Clcl.ek out fb. 
OAKROOM CAFE 
ill Seafk 1>ilil4 Koll'a P~t ~ 
For a late nite snack Niehtly Specials Complete with a new jukebox 
..
open Mon.-Thurs 9-·12 am Fri.-Sat. 9-2 am 
SQorts 
Weekend tennis 
Irish women split in illinois 
By DONNA WITZLEBEN downing Rickard and Arildsen, 6-3, Stout, 6-2, 6-4. Colligan won over Sports Writer 6-2, LaFratta and Colligan beating Patti Keams, 6-0, 6-1 for Notre Kathy Kewney and Hoppmann, 6-0, Dame, while teammate LaFratta 
Notre Dame's women's tennis 6-4, and Greta Roemer and Schnell downed Dawn Paulik 6-4, 6-0. At No. team split its two matches at Cham­defeating McNamara and Wickiser, 5, Schnell lost a close one to Nancy paign, Ill., this weekend, losing to 6-1,0-6,6-3. Abney, 7-6, 6-4. Co-captain Cooper the University of Illinois and defeat­Coach Sharon Petro was a little beat Lori Lyons, 6-2, 6-2. ing Eastern Illinois. disappointed with the singles play 
Once agian the doubles teams The Irish dropped the first match and attributed it to nerves; "We 
swept their opponents: Panther and to Illinois, S-4, with three of the usually don't play the better schools Lee over Peterson and Stout, 6-2, 6­matches going to three sets. until the spring, and the University 0; Colligan and LaFratta won 6-2,6-2 
At No. 1 singles, Sue Panther was of Illinois has improved even more 
over Keams and Paulik; Schnell and defeated by Illinois' Kelley Rickard over last year. They're a tough team 
Greta Roemer beat Abney and 6-1, 2-6, 6-4. Notre Dame's Laura Lee to go up against right out of the Lyons, 6-1, 6-2 . 
. at No. 2 singles lost to Gayathri blocks," Petro explained. 
It was a beneficial weekend forDeSilva, 6-3, 6-0. Mary Colligan won But Petro was very pleased with Petro and her squad, which stands atfor the Irish, beating Sue Arildsen, 7-her doubles teams' play. The pairs 1-1 for the season. ''I learned what6, 6-0. Notre Dame's No. 4, 5 and 6 had never played together before we need to work on this season and Isingles players all lost; Lisa LaFratta and despite the last minut~ switches was more than impressed with thelost to Maureen McNamara 6-2, 2-6, in partners they all won all of their fine doubles play I saw," said Petro. 
6-0; Cathy Schnell lost toJo Wickiser matches this past weekend. 2-6, 6-2, 6-0; and Camille Cooper In the second match the Irish The team resumes practice today lost to Rita Hoppmann, 6-3, 7-6. romped over Eastern Illinois, 8-before taking on Wheaton.College, 
The Irish doubles teams easily 1.Notre Dame's Panther beat Kristen tomorrow at Courtney Tennis Cen­swept the Illini with Panther and Lee Peterson, 6-1, 6-1. Lee defeated Sally ter at 3:30p.m. 
Monday, September 13, 1982 -page 12 

OverLend! 
Connors wins fourth U.S Opentitle 
NEW YORK ( AP) -Acharged-up . out the game when Lendl's back­courts at the National Tennis Center Jimmy Connors, ruling the tennis hand down the line was wide. in 1978. world again at age 30, won his fourth Connors held serve to clinch the The loss spoiled what has been a 
U.S. Open singles championship yes­opening set, then immediately magnificant year for Lend!, who lost terday by beating Ivan Lend! of broke Lend! to take the advantage in a five-set final to Bjorn Borg in the Czechoslovakia, 6-3, 6-2, 4-6. 6-4. the second set. He broke him again 1981 French Open. 
The triumph, coupled with his in the seventh game as he raced out The 22-year-old Czech has third Wimbledon title in July, gave to a two-set lead. amassed a record single-season prize Connors a sweep of the year's two Connors went ahead in the third money total, winning $1 ,28~,050 jimmy Connors is back on top ofthe tennis world after hisjour­top tennis tournaments -a feat he set when he broke Lend! at 1 5 in the going into this third leg ofthe Grand· -set victory overIvan Lend/for the U.S. Open championship. ( AP) first performed in 1974. third game as the crowd cheered its Slam. 
What had shaped up to be a tight approval. But, in the fifth game, battle between the top two players Lend! lost a point after Connors hit a in the world -Connors now is No. groundstroke that looked long. NFL I and Lend! No. 2 on both the ATP In the sixth g;~me, Connors was and Nixdorf computers, with down love-30 when he pulled even 
Plunkett leads Raiders over 49ers
McEnroe falling to No. 3 -almost on two straight aces, his third and became a rout. fourth of the match. The crowd After the first game, Lend! was thought Lend! had been the victim 
Raiders 23 

unable to break Connors again until of a bad line call again and began play, moments after linebacker Guy the game at I~-1-l. the sixth game ofthe third set, when rooting for the Czech. Prather recovered a Robert Alexan­Earlier. the Falcons jumped to a 7­
49ers 17 

der fumble on a kick return. The TD
his powerful forehand had returned. And Lend! was not ready to quit. 0 lead when fullback William 
gave the Packers a 28-23 lead. Andrews raced 13 yards for aAnd Lend! had to fight the entire He broke Connors' serve, then SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -Jim It came on the heels of a IS-yard second-quarter touchdown. Brun·match to hold serve. Besides the took the set with another break in Plunkett tossed a go-ahead touch­scoring pass from Dickey to james ncr evened the score 7-7 at the halfbreaks he suffered, on three other the lOth game. 
down pass in the final period and Lofton as the Packers came to within with a 33-yard pass to Gray.
occasions Connors took Lend! to Connors again broke Lend! to Brunner put the Giants ahead on a
rookie Marcus Allen rushed for I 16 2 3-21 of the Rams, who led 2 3-0 at
deuce before the Czech pulled out open the fourth set, this time after 19-yard pass to Gray early in the
yards as the Los Angeles Raiders beat halftime. 
third quarter. The 89-yard drive washis own service. the Czech fought back from love-40 the Super Bowl champion San Fran­Dickey overcame a brilliant Los boosted by a 27-yard Brunner passLend! double-faulted his first to deuce. But Connors took the next cisco 49ers 23-17. Angeles debut for quarterback Bert to wide receiverJohnny Perkins.
point after the opening-game break two points and, after holding serve, a Until this season the Raiders Jones, who completed 1 7 of 31 Brunner's previous best perfor­and dropped co a love-40 deficit 2-0 lead. played across the bay in Oakland. passes for 202 yards and one touch­mance was 290 vards in the Giants'before fighting back to deuce. But They traded breaks in the fourth down. The Rams acquired Jones in a
Plunkett's 3-yard scoring pass to 
38-24 playoff lo~s to the San Fran­Connors prevailed when, after the and fifth games, then Connors tight end Todd Christensen with trade with Baltimore during the cisco 49ers.
preseason.
second deuce. Lend! netted a served out for the match. 9: 14 left in the game wiped out a 17­The Packers preserved the victoryforehand, then hit a forehand wide. Connors is the only person to win 13 San Francisco lead. Chris Bahr when inside linebacker George Dolphins45
The two then held serve easilv un­the Open on three different surfaces. kicked his third field goal, a -l3-Cumby intercepted a Jones pass at til the sixth game, when con'nors His first two victories, in 1974 on yarder, four minutes later after 49ers the Packer 34 midway through the jets 28 broke Lend! at 30. Lend! double­grass and 1976 on clay, came at quarterback Joe Montana lost a final period, and when outside 
fumble. linebackerJohn Anderson picked off
faulted to 30-40 and Connors closed Forest Hills. He won on the hard NEWYORK(AP)-Miami's Tom­
Montana threw a pair of second­a Jones throw at the Packer 7-yard my Vigorito scored on a 'iO-yard
period touchdown passes, I H yards line with I :33 left. 
punt return and cornerback Don 
to Fred Solomon and 41 yards to Green Bay halfback Eddie Lee McNeal and safety Glenn BlackwoodDwight Clark. Ray Wersching's 22-Ivery, who rushed for 109 yards on
Expos sweep Clubs; 
returned interceptions for touch­
yard field goal in the third period 1 7 carries, capped the scoring with a downs to lead the Miami Dolphins to gave San Francisco its 1 7-l :i lead. 27-yard burst up the middle with a 45-28 victory over the mistake­
The Raiders' drive for the go­3:06 remaining. 
prone New York Jets.

closegap in N.L. East 
ahead touchdown covered 60 yards 
The victory ended four years of
and they overcame one quarterback
14th of the year, 111 the ninth. Ryne Falcons16 frustration against the Jets for the
Expos 11 sack and two penalties. However, a
Sandberg hit his seventh homer in Dolphins, who were 0-7-l during 
pass interference call against 49er
the Cub first and Bill Buckner his Giants 14 that span.
Cubs3 cornerback Lynn Thomas set up the
13th one out later. Junior Kennedy Vigorito's punt return with 10:47 
touchdown, giving the Raiders a first remaining in the first quarter broke a
CHICAGO (AP) -Chris Spe1er hit his second homer in the Cub EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. (AP)­
down at the San Francisco 3. 7-7 tie, and the Dolphins steadily
drove in four runs as the Montreal fifth. Mick Luckhurst hooted a 29-yard built on their lead. One of Miami'sExpos hammered the Chicago Cubs Allen, the Heisman Trophy win­tield goal with 58 seconds remain­
scores came on a rare touchdown·
11-3 for a sweep oftheir three-game Royals 18 ner from Southern California, scored ing, lifting the Atlanta Falcons to a series, enabling them to move to the Raiders' first touchdown on a 3-16-14 victory over the New York reception by quarterback David within 2. 5 games of first-place St. Twins 7 yard run late in the first half. Bahr's Giants. Woodley, who hauled in :J IS-yard 
Louis in the National League East. first two field goals were from 41 Alanta closed in on the Giants pass from halfback Tonv Nathan in Bill Gullickson, 11-11, was the KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP)-Willie when safety Bob Glazebrook picked the third quarter. .
and 42 yards out. winner although he yielded three Aiens hit two of four Kansas City up a final-quarter fumble by Leon The interceptions by Blackwood 
... 
solo homers. Doug Bird, 9-12, took the loss. 
The Expos rapped out five singles and scored four runs in the second inning to go ahead -l-2. 
Speier slugged his fifth homer -a three-run shot -in the seventh af­ter Tim Wallach had walked and Warren Cromartie had singled. Speier had picked up his first RBI on the day with a run-scoring double in the third. 
Cromartie added a solo homer, his home runs to lead a 20-hit attack as the Royals battered the Minnesota Twins 18-7. 

The Royals' barrage included nine doubles. 
Bob Tufts, 1-0, was the winning pitcher. Terry Felton. 0-i.>,, took the loss and set a new major league record for the most losses at the beginning of a career. 
Kansas City trailed "7.J at one 
See BASEBALL, page 10 
Packers 35 Rams23 

MILWAUKEE (AP)-Lynn Dick­ey ritled two fourth-quarter touch­down pa~ses I.., seconds apart to cap a Green Bay rally as the Packers surge to a 3'i-25 victory over the Los Angele~ Ram~ in a National Football League opener ycstenJ;~v. 
Dickey hit tight end Paul Coffman wtth a I 0-yard pass with I I. i 2 10 Perry on the Falcons' 9-yard line and ran it back 91-yards ·for a touch­down, an Atlanta record for a fumble recovery. 
Giants quarterback Scott Brunner 
threw for a career-best 310 yards, 
including .B-and 19-yard touch­
down pas~es to Earnest Gray. 
Linebacker Lawrence Taylor hdped the Giants mthe final quarter when he blo(:ked Luckhur~t's at· tempt at an extra point and prevented the rakun~ from rymg and McNeal thwarted a New York comeback in the third period. Black· wood picked offa Richard Todd pass and returned 3'i yards for the touch­down that gave Miami a .'\H-14 lead with 4:1 H left. 
On the Jets' next possession, McNeal stepped in front of intended receiver flrun· Harper and returned the intern·ption 19 yan.Js fur the 
~core. 
See FOOTBALL, page 10 








