
COMPLIMENTARY ISSUE 

NEWS 
Transformer explosion


INSIDE: 
-seepage 3 
VOL. XVII, NO. 16 


SHEXTR 
g notre Jamc and saint mary's SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 1982 
Faust, Irish all set for Michigan 
By KELLY SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame· marketing majors have made a small fortune selling T-shirts this week that re~· ' "The Irish do it in the dark." No question about it, 'he lights around Notre Dame's Stadium tommorow night will be the focus ofattention -until kick-off. Then it will be time for Gerry Faust and his team to show everyone just how much they've learned since they last took the field. 
"In some ways, I'm a little bit more at ease than I was before our first game last year," says the second-year head coach, "because I know the whole scope ofcollege football much better now. 
"But on the other hand, I'm more nervous because we're going up against a highly-ranked team right off the bat. Either way, I'm just anxious to get started again. We're a better football team, but there's no way to prove that until we play." 
But according to the Irish coachingstaff, Michigan, too, is a better football team than the one that drubbed Notre Dame 25-7 a year ago. "Jay Robertson (defensive line coach) coached at Wisconsin last year when they beat Michigan," Faust says. "We sent him up to watch those two play last week. He felt that Wisconsin had a better team this year, but Michigan really handled them. They have all the in­gredients to be great this season." 
See IRISH, page 19 

Tale of two quarterbacks 
By LOUIE SOMOGYI 
Sports Writer 
"Junior quarterback Blair Kiel won the job in spring practice, but Kiel hasn't been an ef­fective passer ... and Faust wants to pass a lot this fall ... Nobody is saying so, but there's an underlying feeling that if should K.iel falter ­even a little -it might be an excuse for replacing him with heralded sophomore, Ken Karcher." -Sports Illustrated 
"This year Michigan's trigger man is under the gun. As a sophomore a year ago, quarter­back Steve Smith got off to a rocky start .. Smith gained 2,335 yards, but not the Michi­gan fans' favor. He scored often -27 times against the enemy -but seldom with the fans." -Phil Richards, South Bend Tribune. 
Somewhere in the college football world a great talent is always waiting to be displayed. Before attaining glory. though, the talented in­dividual invariably has to "pay his dues." Marcu~ Allen did it -as a blocking fullback for Charles White -before he went on to win the Heisman Trophy him~elf. Scott Zettek had to live through two years offwith major knee surgery before attaining All-America honor~ in his seoior season. 
This weekend at Notre Dame Stadium. two junior quarterbacks -each of whom has been paying dues -get a chance to display the talent and gain the glory. On national television, no less. Blair K.iel and Steve Smith have not overcome the disadvantages of inglorious positions or physical injuries. But the two have had to overcome the mental an­guish of trying to gain acceptance and respect from the press, as well as over-zealous fans and alumni. 
Respect and acceptance were the least of the quarterbacks' problems when they arrived at their re.spective schools in the fall of 1980. Just about every scout in the business listed the youngsters as the top two blue-chip prospects at their position. Honor and glory at tradition-laden football schools seemed cer­tain. 
K.iel completed his three-year career at Columbus (Ind.) East High with 4,977 yards of total offense and 54 touchdowns (passing and running) to his credit. In his seriior year he led East to a 13-0 slate and the Class-AAA state championship. 
Smith led his team into the playoffs in Michigan -throwing for 1,926 yards and 26 touchdowns in his senior campaign. His 4.5 speed in the 40-yard dash was an extra bonus. 
Their freshman collegiate seasons contrasted sharply. While Smith saw very little action as a third-string quarterback, Kiel har! begun making a name for himself by the second game of the season (ironically. against Michigan). By the fourth game ofthe season, K.iel was Notre Dame's startingquarterback -the fir I st freshman to do so since Ralph Gugliemi in the 1950s. "I was thrown intothe fire a little quicker than I expected, and I had to do a lot ofgrowing up real quick," reflects Kiel. "But it was one of my goals as a freshman and I wouldn't have traded it for anything." 
After starting off 7-0 and being ranked No. I, though. Notre Dame closed the season with a 2-2-1 record. Kiel's final passing statistics (a 3H. ~ percent completion rate and no touchdowns) drew the first questions and criticisms about his competence. 
With the implementation ofa totally new offensive system by Ger­ry Faust in 1981, and the return ofone of Faust's greatest high school stars -Tim Koegel -Kiel's sophomore year brought even greater obstacles. Nevertheless, optimism ran rampant among the fans. 
Meanwhile, spirits in Ann Arbor were also peaking in the autumn of 1981. With 16 starters returning (including seven legitimate All­America candidates) from a team that finished No. 4 in 1980, the Wolverines were the odds-on favorites for the national champion­ship. 
John Wangler, who had performed so splendidly the previous 
year, had graduated, but Smith still had the benefit of the awesome 
Michigan offensive unit. His job would be simple: handoff to All­
American Butch Woolfolk, and throw to All-American Anthony Car­
ter. while being protected by the All-America linemen Ed Mllransky, 
Rubba Paris and Kurt Becker. 

In the year ofpromise for the young sopho­more field generals, however, autumn literally became the "fall" of 1981. The season divided into three very similar parts for both of them. 
The first part was the nightmare start. In the opening-game loss to Wisconsin for then-No. !-ranked Wolverines, Smith managed to com­plete only three of 18 passes and was inter­cepted three more times. Five weeks later, nothing had improved. Against eventual Big-
See QB's, page 19 

Saturday, September 18, 1982 -page 2 
The Irish Extra -Michigan 
·.Irish must stop Carter 


By DAPHNE BAILLE 
.\ports Writer 

"This Anthony Carter is sometbing else! Nobody in tbe United States ofAmerica could bave stopped Ibatpassfrom getting into Car­ter's hands! ... " 
Thb was the commentary ofan exhuhcrant Michigan announcer two years ago after the little sophomore receiver made a spectacular catch for the Wolverines. 
Now in his senior year, Anthony "The Dar­ter" Carter i~ still stopping hearts and electrifying crowds with hi~ dazzling play. He has been called everything from "the human torpedo" to "the 161-pound touchdown machine," and,~jJOrts Illustrated says he "runs so fast it's tough to catch him even on tllm." 
"Spectacular," "explosive," and "dynamic" are terms Bo Schem­bcchler likes to 1,1se when describing his star receiver. The'Michigan head coach has even said, "Anthony Carter is without question the most exciting player in college football." 
These descriptions may sound biased or exaggerated, but in the case of Carter, they are well deserved. The two-time All-American has amassed statistics impressive enough to make him the only 
l 

~-­~ <11WitM :J\Iliiiii'~'~U >filii' , , ' :
~-·-J ~ J&IF?!I~L :~ ~ 
•tlfll' •tfililll m Jn· TIEkl -' -<:· ;i>:i?fr 
•• •lw.'l -•r::• •rr.• .•t1Uiti~·. :., •.
l•ii¥1t:a. aL•:-•• ;•F 

-ilt •••. l.' ,••••i. 
.!llll11..Ws i!)I:Ma ll*&• A ;._.,,.•llll: 




Anthony Carter 

receiver considered in line for the Hcbman Trophy this year, 
In three years at Michigan, Carter has caught 118 passes for an amazing 18.2 yard~ per reception, and he has taken fully one-fourth of these passes into the end zone. Before the 1982 season began, he was already Michigan's leader in touchdown receptions ( 29 ), recep­tion yards ( 2,232 ), and kickoff return yards ( I ,2'!6). 
In his three games against Notre Dame, the wide receiver has nabbed six passes for 1'52 yards -an average of 2'5 yards per catch. One of those was a 71-yard touchdown play that aided in the Wol­verine victory last fall. 
Figures like these are enough to frighten any secondary, but Notre Dame defensive backs tee! prepared to handle the human dynamo. "We realize that Carter is a great receiver," notes free satety and senior tri-captain Dave Duerson. "It's a challenge w be able to defend against a receiver like him -hut in no way are we in· timidated by him. We will have to be very conscious of every mo­ment he's in the game." 
Even if he's on the tleld, a receiver cannot automatically pile up the statistics. He often faces double coverage, and he's always at the mercy of his quarterback. Carter will have to contend with these problems against the Irish. 
Duerson explains, "Carter is a great one, but to he great somehody's got to put the hall in his hand~. We're going to put a strong pass rush on (Michigan quarterback) Steve Smith so his passing won't he as effective. 
"We're going to · he a more offensive detens<:. We're not going to sit back and see what they do-we'll be more explosive." 
The Irish defensive hacks arc readv ro ex­plode, especiallv when they recall la~t vear's humiliating 2'5-.:, defeat at Ann Arbor. I~ that contest, Carter grabbed three passes and scored on two of them, accounting for 99 of Michigan's 10:3 passing yards. 
"Last year was an embarrassment," remem­bers Duerson. "We've put all that behind us now, hut that feeling is still in the back ofour minds. The Michigan loss was the start of the 
turmoil." 
Although th<: Irish will have their hands full with the likes of Carter and Smith, the going won't exactly be easy for the Wolverines either. The Irish secondary was ranked in the top twenty last season, and it boasts some stars 
ofits own. 
Duerson has started 27 games in three years and has play,ed at every spot in the secondarv. The All-America candidate led the team in minute~-played last year while delivering '55 tackles. ln his career at Notre Dame the hard­hitt-ing Duerson has recovered thre~ fumbles intercepted tlvc passes, and broken up te~ 
passes. 

Strong safety Joe Johnson is also a very physical player, and one of the most versatile backs in the secondan·. He ·is backed bv veteran Rod Bone, who ~ill be used frequent­ly in nickel defense situations. 
At the corners, Stacey Toran and Chris Brown arc ready to defend against whatever comes their way. Toran has been a starter since his freshman year and was third among the Irish in playing time last year. The junior is ~:specially skilled as a one-on-one pas~ defen­der. Brown, a smart and physical player, also returns a~ a starter. He'll play weak corner while Toran plays strong 
So there you have it -Anthony Carter and associates versus the defensive backs of Notre Dame. It should be quite a match-up. 

, , ,Israel -page 6 



VOL. XVII, NO. 16 the imkpt:mknt student newspaper Sl"r\'in~ notre daml" and saint mary's SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 18; 1982 -page 3 

Falsealarm 

Explosion,prankplague SMC 
By MARGARETFOSMOE Saint Maty's. were scared because we haven't had StlintMary's ExecuttiJfl Editor Meanwhile, an electrical transfor· Fire Safety Wee.lt and they knew we mer tocated at the end of Saint wouldn't havea drill before that." 
A power transformer explosion Mary's Roadexploded shortiy after 7 Several witnesses mentioned that and a false fire alarm resulted in both p.m., while both fire (lepartments they had preViously been told that the Notre Dame and South Bend tlre were rushing to the College. Holy Cross would bum .to the departments rushing to Saint Mary's The explosion caused additional ground "in five minutes" once a fire Holy Cross Hall early last night. confusion, although the transformer started in the dorin. 
The: two incidents were apparent· incident and .the fire alarm Saint Mary's Security refused
were · to Iy unrelated later determjned to be unrelated. comment on the incident. Security 
Much ofthe north end ofthe city One gbserver oAt the sctne said Director Anthony· Kovatch ·said his was. left without power as a result of that some residents "were hesitant" department is ·forbidden to . com­the transformer failure. about leavmg the building. ment on such matters due to 
Kathleen Ryan, a resident assistant· A resident assistant said "People "administrative policY." working the Holy Cross desk, 
~e;~:e~:r:~=~~~~rt!:e!.~; ~Scalping' problemgrow._s ·, 
room is on.fire," according to Ryan. Ryan ~she asked the caller for limi..• · ed. 
·the i:tumba of tlx ·room and the countermeasures . . t ·:· ..' 
~ 

woman replied "41;_fl · · . . . · -· . · . . . . . · . . . 
Ryan$aidshcthencalleC!Sccurity · _,,. '· ·· .'.-. · ·~:·· · '" and notified Lisa Schulte, the halt ByJOHN SPENDLEY. lcgalincome. ' , director. Another student, T~rri Nnus Staff Scalping by students is another Kleinhans, pulled the fire alarm. practice that is a concern of Univer-Security guards arrived with fire ''Ticket scalping for Notre Dame sity officials. To prevent this extinguishers while Schulte and the football games has gotten out of "anyone without a valid Notre Dame . residem assistants began to evacuate hand," says University of Notre student I.D. (valid meaning their the dorm. Fire engines "wete here in Dame ticket manager Steve Orsini. own) will be turned away and the a minute," according to Ryan. It is common knowledge that tick-tickets and I.D. they present will be The fire alarm was determined to ets are sold for more than their face confiscated and turned into my be a prank when Ryan and security value for just about every Notre office on Monday mornings after the guards arrived at the fourth floor to Dame: home football game. games," says Orsini. "Then the stu­find room 415 locked and empty. A year ago, an unnamed student dents who sold the tickets are usual-A spokesman for the Notre Dame reportedly sold eight general admis-ly waiting at my office on Monday to Fire Department later said that the sion tickets ( GA's) to the USC game have their tickets and I.D. returned. South Bend Fire Department for SlOOO. For today's game against We have a little talk and they are "confirmed" there was a fire in the Michigan GA's have been selling for warned," adds Orsini. If it happens dorm while N.D. fire officials were S1 00 and some people are paying up again, the student is refered to Dean on their way to Saint Mary's. to S60 for student tickets. Roemer for disciplinary action. South B'end fire officials were then This practice concerns University What must be remembered, dispatched to the College, although officials but possible measures to though, is that not everyone is normal policy calls for only the ND prevent or control the problem are caught and there is no way of telling Fire Dept. to report for fire alarms at limited. how many student tickets are sold "One limitation is the fact that without notice. there is no law in the state oflndiana Orsini assures, however, that they which prohibits the scalping of tick-are doing their best to prevent ticket ets," says Director ofSecurity Glenn scalping. Terry. "Therefore in fighting this The fact is that tickets to Notre
Nightgame complicates security 
problem the University is on its Dame football games are hard to own ...and it isn't easy," Terry adds. come by. Therefore the law ofsupp-Notre Dame security provides ly and demand becomes incor-
By PETER CIOTIA supervise crowd control and are not manner pertaining to hall security. 
three plainclothes officers to patrol porated and tickets become "worth" StaffReporter schooled in security supervision," They say certain people need to 
the stadium before the game in or-up to S I 00 apiece for some games.King said. be hired to perform these functions, 
der to catch scalpers, bQt to prevent Orsini sums up the situation in Notre Dame's historic night foot­"We never have had a night game and maintenance people have per­
illegitimate sales prior to the game is saying, "As long as people are willing ball game has complicated security with this much publicity... janitors in formed that ta~k in a fine manner. "almost impossible," says Terry. to pay these ridiculous prices for operations for both the Notre Dame the past have left right after the game Maintenance personnel are con­Penalties for scalpers include the tickets there is no way to prevent and surrounding South Bend com­-now they are being asked to stay sidered experienced in their halls confiscation of their tickets and the the scalping, but we will continue to munities. until 2 a.m. filing of a report to the Internal do the most we can in keeping some
See GAME, page 9

In an attempt to limit the access of "Maintenance men and janitors per­Revenue Service concerning the il-control over it." outsiders to ND residence halls, stu­form a good job ...as maintanence dents will be required to preregister men and janitors." guests with hall rectors. Fr. Matthew Miceli, rector of Coalition shatters 
Admittance into dorms will only Cavanaugh Hall, said he would take place after I. D. cards have been rather have watchmen. shown to security monitors, who "Janitors know the dorms, they 


Schmidt callsfor new elections 
will be stationed at entranceways have done an adequate job for the from 7 p.m. until 2 a.m. past ten years for Saturday games. South Bend police will patrol on But I'm uncertain how things will BONN, West Germany (AP) -Chancellor Hel­four ofth~ ministers taking on the portfolios ofthe a year of unrelenting resigned Free Democrats. Schmidt said he will take
horseback in an effort to more close­turn out Saturday night ...more mut Schmidt, bowing to 
pressure, called for new elections yesterday after over the portfolio of Foreign Minister Hans­ly patrol pedestrian areas. Traffic serious problems may arise." 
Cabinet resignations shattered the 13-year-old Dietrich Genscher, leader of the Free Democrats.
and street patroling units have also Grace Hall Rector Fr. David governing coalition. Helmut Kohl, 52-year-old leader of the opposi·been increased. Noone thinks it would be advan­But it appeared the conservative opposition tion Christian Democrats, called on Schmidt to do 
Tailgaters may be set up on Notre tageous if there were security would move quickly to attempt to oust the 63-his "patriotic duty" and resign, then declared, "We Dame property at 9 a.m., but cannot people. year-old socialist chancellor and deny his request will try to form a new government capable of a begin before 1 p.m. Advertisement "We realize that security is under­to lead a minority government until elections this majority as soon as possible and then put it to the oftailgaters has been prohibited. staffed, however, and feel it is good fall. decision ofthe voters." 
Varied reactions to the potential that our janitor knows our people," Scmmidt issued the call for new elections in a His speech left unclear his next move. speech to the Bundestag, or Parliament, at midday, The West German constitution offers two
problems and to security measures Noone said. 
just after word leaked out that four Cabinet mini­avenues for changing governments: one, favored were voiced by rectors, administra­"We're comfortable with the sters from the Free Democratic Party were quit­by Schmidt, is a no-confidence vote followed by antion officials and students. situation." 
ting. The resignations capped a long-running election in the fall. The other method would be aIf maintenance people do their
As has been policy for the past ten dispute over welfare spending, which Schmidt's Parliament vote ousting the chancellor followed 
years, maintenance personnel of job and residents cooperate, Holy 
trade union-based Social Democratic party refused immediately by Parliamentary approval of a new residt:nce halls will serve as security Cross Hall Rector Brother Francis to cut. chancellor. monitors in their respective dorms. Rotsaert thinks "we should get by "I regret this exceptionally," Schmidt said. "For I Much depends on whether Kohl can convince 
Bccau~e of the heavy influx of OK." am still of the opinion that even today a solid basis enough ofthe 53 Free Democrats in the Bundestag "Wt:'re doing what wt: have to exists of substantial political mmon ground be­to go along with the conservatives-174 Christian
people expected on campus. hall 
tween Social Democrats and liberals (the Free Democrats and 52 deputies of the Bavarian Chris­
rectors voiced mixed reactions do," Rotsaert said. "If it doesen't Demcrats )." tian Socialllnion. Schmidt's Social Democrats have
concerning these monitors. work, more serious measures will 
However, Schmidt said he believed new elec­
216 seats. Two leftist independents, former Social
Father Thomas King, rector of havt: to be taken in the future." '' 
tions were "the best way to lead out of the inner 
Democrats, also hold seats.
Zahm Hall, said having janitors and In response, Dean of Student~ political crisis" that ha~ been choking his govern­maintenance men as security James Roemer and Director of ment for months. 
Kohl, who unsuccessfully challenged Schmidt monitors reflects poor judgement. Security Glenn Terry claim rectors He said he and the 11 other Social Democrats in for the chancellorship in 1976, needs 244 votes to "They are not properly trained to asked for a directive in a uniform the Cabinet intended to continue governing, with oust Schmidt and replace him. · 



~------, 
~ NewsBrieb 
Hy The <Jhserwr and The Associateti Press 
Education Minister Heiji Ogawa has pledged to restore to recently revised history textbooks accounts of the Japanese Imperial Army's massacre of Okinawan civilians, a government official said yesterday. Ogawa said the corrective measure will be made when the books come up for revision in 1983, the official said. Okinawa prefecture officials had protested the dele­tion of a passage saying the Japanese army, during the battle of Okinawa in 1945, killed 800 civilians because they were an obstacle to military operations. Japan's textbook revisions in recent months were strongly criticized by China and South Korea, which objected to whar they said were distorted accounts ofJapan's conduct before and during World War II. japan has promised to amend the con­troversial pass?.ges. -AP 
Common Market countries, angered by cuts in Soviet long-distance telephone service, asked Moscow yesterday to restore normal telephone links to Western Europe. A statement by envoys of the 10-member European Economic Community accused Soviet authorities of"creating difficulties" for businessmen, correspondents and private citizens by eliminating all automatic dialing to and from the country on Sept. 2. The statement, delivered to Deputy Foreign Minister V.F. Stukalin, came about six weeks after the Soviet government halved the number of telephone circuits to the West for what it termed "technical reasons." Soviet authorities said the circuits would eventually be restored to the normal num­ber. The envoys said the removal ofautomatic telephone exchanges with the West was a "new unilateral measure" by the Soviet Union. "By allowing for no prior notification of consultation on this occa­sion the U.S.S.R. Ministry of Communications showed a remarkable lack ofwillingness to cooperate in a normal businesslike way," they said. -AP 
Laos will continue its search for the remains of Americans killed in Laos during the Vietnam War, the official Laotian News Agency KPL said Friday. The announcement came after a visit to Laos by a four-member delegation from the National League of Families of American Prisoners and Missing in Southeast Asia The group visited the site of the crash of a U.S. aircraft in southern Laos and found human remains which have been turned over to U.S. offi­cials in Laos for identification tests in the United States. The delega­tion is now visiting Vietnam in search for more information on missing American servicemen. -AP 
Former Secretary of State Dean Rusk says he favors a temporary freeze on nuclear weapons production while the United States and the Soviet Union seek reduction of their nuclear arsenals. He also cautioned on Thursday that unilaternal disarma­ment would be "tempting thieves." He said the Soviet Union was most aggressive when Western allies let their defenses down, just before and just after World War II. Rusk, 73, spoke at the Westminis­ter Presbyterian Church's Town Hall in Minneapolis in a broadcast on Minnesota Public Radio. Rusk was secretary of state during the Democratic administrations of John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson. -AP 
Vermont's 180 legislators will be warmed by wood this winter. The huge boiler that heats the Statehouse has been converted from oil to wood, a move that will save $25,000 annually. It has been about 70 years since wood has warmed the Statehouse, which was built in 1857. Coal and oil have been the heat sources since about 1915, according to state officials. "This is one more step in our continuing efforts to reduce our dependence qn foreign oil," said Gov. Richard Snelling at Thursday's dedication ofthe Sl20,000 heat system. -AP 
A Los Angeles man who referred to the three dozen rats in his apartment as "friends" has been arrested for investigation ofhealth ordinance violations, officials say. Felix Varela, an environ­mental health service manager, said Robert Ehman, 52, had been given permission a year ago to keep a pair of white rats in his downtown-area apartment. The pair bred with wild rats and the ro­dents kept multiplying and Ehman refused to get rid ofthem, Varela said. On Thursday, the day of his arrest, Ehman said, "They're my friends. They do what I tell them. They come when I tell them food is ready. I tell them to go to sleep and they do." -AP 
Karenjean HewittofIndianapolis made a frightening discovery Thursday when she flushed her toilet and it hissed at her. Mrs. Hewitt's husband then discovered what had been making the toilet so hard to flush. In the water tank was a 4-foot, 3-inch snake_ "I noticed this head peeking up over the edge and its tongue going in and out," Mrs. Hewitt said. "I started yelling for my husband as loud as I could. It's a wonder the neighbors didn't hear me." The couple resk'es in a townhouse, and they called an employee. He arrived with a long pair of pliers and finally got the unwanted guest into a bucket_ He took the reptile to a creek on tht; property and turned it loose. -AP 
Mosdy cloudytoday. High in mid 60s to about 70_ Clear­
ing tonight and cool. !.ow in mid 40s. Tomorrow, mostly sunny and 
pleasant. High in low and mid 70s_ -AP 
Saturday, September 18, 1982 -page 4 

Go Irish! 


Design Editor ""Shirley Temple"" Suzanne Design Assistant................""Tequilla"" Tim Layout Staff.................:. ""Red·Eye"" Reggie Typesellers ....................... ""Amaretto" Tom ""O.j.""Oakley News Editor····················-···· "Ice Tea" Kelli Copy Editor....................... Double TequiUa Features Layout.........."Jack Daniel's" Joe Editorials Layout..................... Double J.D. Sports Copy Edt/or................."Hurricane" O'Connor Mogen David NO Day Editor....."Grain-Alcohol"" Grote Typist ............................. "Margarita" Brown Ad Design ..................... "Sloe-Gin" Swiercz Pbotograpber .................. "Daiquiri" Diane Guest Appearances ................. "Beer" Bob, "Michelob" McGinn, "Rum ·n Coke" Cheryl. "Milk" Monk, "Fizz" Fosmoe 
'He must be high on something· 
someone said... 

The Observer (USPS 598 920! IS published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. e~cept dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Marys Col· tege SubscnptiO')S may be purchased tor $25 per year ($15 per semester) by Writing The Observer p 0 Box a Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproductiOn nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. lnd•ana 46556 


"Michigan Dead!" echoed throughout Step. an Center last night as the crowd cheered the football team before the first game of the season. Coach Gem• Faust's (upper left) appearance highlighted the hour-long celebration. (photos by Diana Butler) 


AGOSTINO'S Specializing in Prime Rib, Seafood, Steaks andlfhlstle serving your favorite cocktails. :ltep OPE:N 12:00pm Sat., Sept., 18 for :N D's First game.
602 So. Walnut South Bend TAKING RESERVATIONS 232-2494 flOW
Banquet rooms available with option to create your own menu. Serving dinner at Spm Mon. -Fri. 


The Observer Saturday, September 18, 1982-page 5 
Chrysler pact 
U A W recomtnends ratification 

SOUTHFIELD, Mich. (AP) ­t ..ited Auto Workers officials trom Chrysler Corp. plants nationwide narrowly voted yesterday to recom­mend to workers a tentative con­tract which pegs pay increase~ to company protit~ and the cost of livmg. 
john Byers. of l A W local l .~68 in lklvidert". Ill.. ~~ull the councii voted ">I rercent to t') percent in favoT ot :lit· pact. Aceun.lm)! to .\tartv Wii­Ldnt, a ddcgatc !rom Local 126-l in ·.:erling Heighb. ;o.lich.. the roll-call note wa..' 262.02 r.o 2-tR99. He said each deleg.att· gets one vote f()r '-''·erv lllO nH:mhers in the local. 
\X'ilhelm .;aid ,11c council .;pent much of its time in the five-hour meeting discu,sing contract provi­sions on wage increases, absen­teeism and worker job classification. He did not elaborate. 
"I can understand the initial strong feelings (against the pact) on the part of our members," Marc Stepp, UAW vice president in charge of the Chrysler department, said prior to the closed-door meeting of the l SO-member Chrysler counciL 
''But it's hard for me to conceive they will throw down the drain the Sl billion they gave up to save the company, especiallv since what we have now achieved will last onlv one n·ar." he added. 
Stepp would not predict hy what margin rank-and-file workers would approve the new agreement reached by hargainers early Thursdav. UAW officials said yester­day that they could not remember when a Big Three council had ever voted against a tentative contract. 
Rank-and-file voting could begin within a few days after the council meeting, the UAW said, and could take l 0 days to two weeks. 
If approved by union members, the contract offering resumption of cost-of-living protection and wage increases based on profits would cover 43,200 working U.S.autoworkers and some 40,000 others on indefinite layoff 
UAW president Douglas A. Fraser said after announcing the new pact that it might be difficult to get the comract pa..,sed because it offers on­ly slightly higher pay. 
The tentative contract calls for a one-year agreement on wages and fringe benefits and a two-year pact on non-economic issues. It calb for a joint committee to chop Sl 0 million out of Chrysler's more than S300 million health care program and a joint program to curb absenteeism. 
The union also would keep its one voting seat on the board ofdirectors. 
In Paris 

Bomb blast injures five seriously 
Workers at the Chrysler Truck Plant in Wan-en, Michigan set up their picket line out in front of the plant Thursday. United Auto Workers officials voted yesterday to recommend a tentative con­tract. See story at left. ( AP) 
&jeg yollll 6eeW weeJauL at flee ~ lf(efel, ~. 9K. 
$17·50 (!ell~.-~ 118G11C6, ~ eoQee, wLle TU, obt 
wdifietcbfg, ~lceekup (le.t 
~-Cd6e1t~. 
,._ 1-936-4555. 

r~-----------------------,
1 Spaulding Campground 
I 

•:r•w • ""' 
I The closest Campground to Notre Dame
I 

2305 Bell Rd. Niles, Mich. 49120 
1 616 684-1393 
I Modern facilities Near South Bend 
L---------------------~---~ 
PARIS (AP) -A bomb ripped through an Israeli diplomatic car in the center of Paris yesterday, seriously wounding five people and slightly injuring about 40, most of them high .school students who were sitting in a classroom near the explosion site, French officials said. 
There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the bombing, on the eve of Rosh Hashana, the Jewish New Year. But Israeli Ambassador Meir Rosenne blamed the Palestine Liberation Organization and told a radio interviewer the ' attack was "new proof of what can happen when the presence of terrorists is tolerated." 
Police said the most severely hurt were two young passers-by and the occupants ofthe white Peugeot 504, an unidentified Israeli employee of the embassy's military purchasing department and his passengers, said to be two or three relatives. There were conflicting reports on the number ofoccupants in the car, and the Israeli Embassy would not supp­ly identification until notification of next of kin. 
Hospital authorities said the 


Hesburgh supports reduction 
Notre Dame President Father Theodore lleshurgh yesterday joined 35 academic leaders, representing 25 colleges and univer­sities from throughout the country, in calling upon President Reagan to "seek seriously and vigorously" al­ternatives to nuclear war. 
In a letter signed by active and retired pre.sidents and board chair­men ofprivate and stae colleges and universities, Reagan was asked to make a "major investment in plan­ning, negotiating and cooperating to 
establish  civilized,  effective  and  
morally acceptable  alternatives  to  
nuclear war ..."  

While supporting the President's proposals to reduce nuclear arsenals as a "useful step," the academicians did not propose "innocent or un­balanced trust of the Soviet Union." 
According to Hesburgh, the letter was motivated by the increasing concern of those who are the "_custodians of the knowledge and wisdom on which civilizations are based" about the "catastrophe that major nuclear war would represent to the ·American people and to aU civilizations." 
youths and a woman passenger in the car's front seat were in very serious condition. A fireman said the woman's fe~t were shattered. 
The driver of the car was able to get out after the explosion, then col­lapsed on the street, witnesses said. It took firemen a half-hour to extr­icate the passengers. 
The injured students were in the Lycee Carnot across the street from the explosion site, when the bomb went off at 3:25 p.m., 20 minutes before school was to get out. The blast blew the classroom windows in. 
"There would have been 500 stu­dents in the strcrt," if the bombing had occurred 20 minutes later, a stu· dent said. 
The youngsters were treated at the scene for cuts from the flying glass. 
The bomb went off on Rue Car· dinet in the l 7th district, a few blocks east of the Arch of Triumph and 200 yards around the corner from the Israeli Embassy's military purchasing annex. 
It was the lOth attack onjewish or Israeli targets in the French capital since the beginning ofthe year, and the 20th in a series of terrorist ac­tions since July 20th. Ten people have been killed in this year's violence. 
A few hours before the explosion police arrested two Frenchmen they said were members ofDirect Action, the left-wing terrorist group that the government outlawed Aug. 18. The group has claimed responsibility for five of the attacks against Jewish or Israeli targets this year. Police said the two men had 33 pounds of ex­plosives in their possession. 
...-..~~~~...-..~...-..---~~~------~~~ 
t attrotJOn pnJ€StS & Ce.acons! : 
t aRe you look104 ~oR an apostlate? you can t t WORk With lOVIn4 COUples 10 SeRVICe ~OR the f t pRe-maRRieb, thRouqh €nqaqeb €ncounteR. t 
t t
t cathollc €nqaqeb €ncounteR 1s a weekenb t t expeRience to PRepaRe COUples ~OR a l1~et1me t t commitment. We neeb you 10 ouR aposttate. t t Please cail us ~OR moRe IOroRmatiOn. t 
t t
t John & peqqy SWitZeR 291-888 7 t 
··-----------------t 


;l 


r­
~ : 


The Observer Saturday, September 18, 1982 -page 6 
Israelis crush leftists, ... seek Lebanese talks 


President-Elect Bashir Gemayel. Israel conquered the last major leftist militia stronghold in West Beirut yesterday. See story• at right. (A.P) 
Tax-return filing 

Congress opposes decreased aid 
WASHINGTON (AP) The House and Senate are rejecting as penny-wise and pound-foolish the Reagan administration's plans to give taxpayers less help in filling out their tax returns at the same time tax-collection efforts are being beefed up. 
The congressional Appropriations Committees have written 1983 money bills for the Internal Revenue Service that require the IRS to provide the same level of taxpayer assistance that is available this year. 
President Reagan's budget would require the IRS, starting Oct. I, to­stop answering taxpayers' telephoned questions about tax laws. The actions of the Appropria­tions Committees, which are ex­pected to be ratified by Congress, insist that the service be continued, at a cost ofabout $50 million a year. 
"The committee feels it is false economy, at a time when we are having difficulty getting taxpayer compliance, to cut back only to the barest essentials, assistance in help­ing the taxpayers with their returns," explained Bob Mills, an aide with the Senate Appropriations Committee. 
The administration's decision to cut back on the toll-free telephone service had been roundly criticized in Congress, by tax experts and -in a private letter -by IRS Commis­sioner Roscoe Egger himself 
If the agency stops answering questions by phone, Egger wrote last Oct. 29, "over 27 million tax· p:!yer::; will have to lovk elsewhere tor tax-law assistance ...." 
In a letter to Deputy Treasury Secretary RT. McNamar, Egger urged the administration to recon­sider the budget proposal The ad­ministration refused and, at a Senate hearing last March, Egger went along with the decision because of budget constraints, saying many of the telephoned questions could be answered from IRS publications. 
The IRS has toll-free telephone lines which any taxpayer may call for answers to tax questions. The ad­ministration proposal would keep the telephone service working, but IRS employees would be allowed to answer only clerical questions, such as matters as why a tax refund had been delayed. 
In 1981, nearly 45 million queries were put to IRS by taxpayers, includ­ing 36 million via telephone. 


LEE'S B-BQ &RIBS 
OPEN FRI4pm-1am SAT3pm-3am 



'BEST RIBS IN MICHIANA' 
'EVERYBODY C'MON DOWN FOR A GOOD TIME' 
GOOD LUCK TO ND, BEAT THOSE WOLVES! 

(No phone in orders) 

( AP) -With tanks and house-to­house searches. Israel smashed the last major leftist militia stronghold in west Beirut yesterday and trinl to ease a confrontation with the l'nited States by calling for talb with Lebanon's arm~ on taking over the .\loslem half of the cit\. 
The t·.s. Emha'~" in Tel :\\·i, called Israel'-, plan "a positive step." 
Franc~·. meanwhile. <lt•nounced Israel's foray and called f(lr an im­mediate pullout. Another conflict swirlt-d at the Soviet Embas~y in west Beirut. with Russian diplomats claiming the bradis had occupied parts of the mission for nearly two days. Israel denied it had taken the embassy. 
In another development, the Reagan administration tiled a vigorous protest over an Israeli <if­fleer tiring a shot Thursday at an unarmed Marine guard atop the U.S. Embassy in west Beirut. It said the shot missed the Marine and Israel apologized, claiming it mistook the Marine for a leftist militiaman. 
The U.S. government demanded Thursday that Israel withdraw im­mediately from west Beirut. It said the incursion, which followed the assassination Tuesday of Presiden-t­elect Bashir (;emayel, violated Is­raeli assurances that they would not enter the Moslem sector following the departure of most PLO guerrillas last month under the protection of U.S., French and Italian peacekeep­ing forces. 
The Israelis said Thursday night they would not pull out until Lebanon's army was ready to mop up remaining guerrilla t sand leftists. Yesterday they said negotiations should begin "as soon as possible" on evacuation of Israeli positions and "when the Lebanese army will be ready to assume control over them." 
The Foreign Ministry in jerusalem said U.S. presidential envoy Morris Draper was told of the proposal by Foreign Minister Yitzhak Shamir and Defense Minister Ariel Sharon, ar­chitect of Israel's 14-week-old inva­sion of Lebanon. 
Draper was traveling back to Beirut to consult with President Elias Sarkis and Prime Minister Shafik Wazzan, who have both demanded an "unconditional Israeli 


SENOI{ KELLY'S 
MEXICAN ~ IRISH CAFE 
Downtown South Bend 119 North Michigan St. !Opposite I st Source/Marriott Center! Phone 12191 234-5389 
Froun Margaritasllmported Beers Mexican Cuisine/Wet Burritos South Bend's Best Barbeque Ribs & Chicken 
OPEN SATURDAY 'TIL MIDNIGHT FOR FOOTBALL FANS! 
withdrawal'' and rejected hrad'~ as­sertion that an e~timated 2,000 l'alt-st inc Liberation 0 rgantzat ion lighters are in west Beirut 
\1\'arzan said in a nationalh tde\'lst·d -,tatcmetlt the Lchane'>t' army \\as put on alert to entt-r west lldrut. "but we insisi that l'>Ltt'ii torn·, pull hack to the ori)!inal cetse-tlre lines hl't(lrt· the l.cb:ult'st· army's entn· to the \\<''>tern sn:tor .. 
\\'a1.1.an said he lias ret't'IYcd as­surances from the l .:--. )!O\Trnmt·nt that it .'>tood b~ its eommitmenh to shidd \\l'St Beirut's 'iOO,OOO people against an Israeli inYasion. 
brae! tightened its grip on west Beirut at mid-morning. when its tanks stormed into the stronghold of the :\lourabitoun leftist Lebanese militia and overran the group's head­quarters and ib Voice of Arab Lebanon radio station in the Abu Shaker neighborhood. 
Correspondents saw little resis­tance to the tanks. 
The Mourabitoun said its leader, Ibrahim Koleilat. was shot in the right leg during the Israeli assault He said ~0 Mourabitoun militiamen were killed in fighting against the Is­raelis since Wednesday. 
Lebanese police sources earlier reported 31 Lebanese civilians killed and 122 wounded by Israeli forces in west Beirut in the last two days. 
The Mourabitoun fielded the lar­gest Moslem militia. an estimated 2,000 to 4,000 men, that fought alongside the PLO during Israel's 14­week-old invasion of Lebanon. 
Soon after the fall of Abu Shaker, Israeli forces began a search of neighborhoods for arms and wanted militiamen allied with the PLO in many districts of west Beirut. 
Meanwhile, Soviet diplomats said Israeli troops had occupied the Soviet Embassy's consulate, school and residences on the Corniche Mazraa from Wednesday night to this morning. 
But the Israeli military command in Tel Aviv said, "We deny officially that we took the Soviet Embassy in Beirut." Military sources in Tel Aviv said Israeli troops in west Beirut "are not far from it (Soviet Embassy) but we're not in it." 
~~ 
TM 


~~~-------~----~----~~~---~-~~ 
The Observer Saturday, September 18, 1982 -page 7 
Royalty,starsgather for funeral 
\101\/TE CAHLO. \tonaco (:\P) ~ European rovaltv and kin~~ and queen~ of llollv·wood gathered ye:s­terda\· ti>r 1he funeral of the woman who~e lift: hrid~ed both world~. Prince~~ (;race of \lonaco. 
The crowned head~. long-dethroned blooded aristocracy, tllm cekbritie~ and millionaire power­brokers jenin~ in will assemble in \lonaco's cathedral for today's funeral of former movie star Grace Kellv. 
Twenty-six years ago in that ~pot, a similar glittering crowd witnessed her fairy-talc wedding to Prince Rainier Ill. Tragedy intervened in the classic romance last \Iunday morning. when the automobile Princess Grace was driving hurtled down a 120-ti>ot ravine and burst in­to tlames. 
Grace, 'i2, died Tuesday night af­ter her family decided to take her off artificial life-sustaining equipment -she had been clinically dead for four hours, doctors said. 
Her daughter, Stephanie, suffered a spinal injury in the accident but 
wa~ reported in good condition last repor1 that she was in a coma. night. :'~Jews of the death sent shock 
The ~hock of Grace's death \vas waves around the world. Expres­ma~nitkd since spokesmen tiJr the sion~ of condolence tlooded into palace played down the seriousness thi~ tiny principality, known as a of her injuries until the end. gambling oasis, a tax haven and the 
Yesterday the doctors who tried home of a storybook prince and to save her la~hed out at the palace princess. communiques. Dr. Charles Chatelin, Bv yesterday morning some of chief ~ur~eon at Princes~ Grace tho~e ;,vho kne-w Grace as monarch Ho~pital, ~aid palace reports and movie star began arriving for the "contained real stupiditie~" and funeral at the 19th-century Cat­were "the source ofall the confusion hedral where she ami Rainier were about the accident." wed April IH, 19%. 
Chatdin said Grace, havin~ sut~ A palace spokeswoman said fered two strokes, was in a coma Princess Grace would be buried in when she was brought to the hospi­the crypt of the cathedral next to tal and never re~ained con~cious­Rainier's three immediate predeces­ness. sors: Charles III, who ruled from 
He said the accident apparently I H56 to IHH9; Prince Albert I, who was caused when she sutiered the ruled from IHH9 to 1922; and first stroke while driving. The Hainier's father, Prince Louis II, who second stroke, of equal intensity, ruled from 1922 to 1949. followed a short time later and ul­Diana, Princess of Wales, timately led to her death, he said. representing the only royal family 
The palace, which refu~ed to com­that has captured more public atten­ment on Chatelin's assertions, tion than Monaco's, was scheduled initially said only that Grace had suf­to arrive this morning from Britain. fered broken bones, and did not Grace Kelly's former co-star, Cary 
Grant, arrived in neighboring Nice 
Thursday and reportedly planned to attend the funeral Mass. 
Lecturer sees nation First Lady Nancy Reagan, who knew Princess Grace when •hey both were Hollywood actresse~. was
strong despite woes scheduled to arrive here late yester­

By MARGARET FOSMOE 
Sairll Marv's Executit•e Editor 
Introduced bv Father Theodore Hesbur~h. Univ~rsity President, as "a person who has what most jour­nalists lack ...good common sense,'' \tax Lerner concludes that America may be suffering from the wounds of youth rather than dying ofold a~e. 
Lerner, a syndicated columnist for the New York Post, came to this con­clusion while considering the ques­tion "I~ America a Dying Civilization'" in his inaugural lecture as the tlrM occupant of the 
W. Harold and \tartha Welch chair at Notre Dame. 
The lecture marked the 25th an­niversarv of his well-known publica­
tion,Anierica as a Civilization. 
Lerner compared American society to a living organism and said, "What it is suffering from may he the self-inflicted wounds ofyouth." 
According to Lerner, the com­bination of the 1960s, Watergate, and Vietnam made it "hard to see the larger panern" in American society. We are still living in a "stormy present," he said, although it has slowed down a bit. 
He said that America, as a social 

organism, is bound to have spells of 
illness. However, he went on, "only 
if it is resilient will it bounce back." 
Lerner said that the American 

events of the 1960s provided a 
model for the European youth upris­
ings. It was an era of much scrutany 
that "came close to breaking the 
American culture and institution," 
according to him. 
He described Watergate as a "uniquely American phenomenon which baffled our contemporaries." 
Our goal therefore, Lerner said, 

must be to learn to "use each phase 
of our culture to illuminate the 
others." 
Lerner used the example of the 

fall of Rome to warn that America 
will suffer the same fate if Americans 
allow their will to decline "because 
conviction becomes self-fulfilling 
prophecy." 
He said America is presently being 

undone by a number of factors 
including a dominant elite, the ero­
sion of work, and a "cult of the pure 
and ideal." 
Lerner emphasized, however, that 

these symptoms do not necessarily 
point to a "fatal diseas•· of the or­
ganism." 
Lerner said that the of things 

"American culture live f and can 
live of' is extensive. 
These include equal access for all, 

compassion, limits placed on the 
abuse of power, hope, values, and 
cohesiveness. 
Lerner praised the "great 

American myth that our children's 
day. 
lot tomorrow will be better than ours yesterday." Lerner is the recipient of the first 
After stock purchase 
endowed chair in the American Studies department. 
The endowed chair honors W 

Bendix/Mariettafight continues
Harold Welch, a retired executive of 
the New York Telephone Co. who 
NEW YORK (AP)-Bendix Corp.
graduated from Notre Dame in 192-i bought a controlling interest in Mar­and his wife. :\1artha, who holds bac­tin Marietta Corp. yesterday andcalaurate and cr:aster's degrees from demanded that Marietta's directors
Columbia Univer~ity and who served for several ears as an ex­
resign. Undaunted, Marietta pressed 
ecutive of the New 'i'ork City public its own takeover bid for Bendix and school system. predicted it would win. 

The confrontation put Bendix and .\tarietta on a course that could result in each company buying a majority stake in the other, an outcome Wall Street analysts said was unprecedented in a takeover tight of major corporations. No ob­server would hazard a guess as to the result. 
As of yesterday, Bendix had purchased a majority of Martin Marietta stock, and hoped ro place its representatives on the Marietta hoard before next Wednesday. 
Wednesday is the first day that 
.Wax Lerner Martin Marietta could begin buying Bendix stock. Marietta, which made 
Born in Russia, Lerner emigrated its move after Bendix did, says it has to the United States when he was received offers to sell 7S percent of five years old. He holds law and so­Bendix stock. cial science degrees from Yale Uni­United Technologies Corp., versity, Washington University, and which has been hacking Martin the Robert Brooking Graduate Marietta and ha~ made its own offer 
School. 
to buy Bendix, has proposed aLerner is the author of several "friendly merger" with Bendix. Ben-books on American history and dix refused.
culture. He is also the former editor The merger baule already is T:<\L R_UGS from China,_ Pak·•stan, Roma~ia, India, Afghanistan, Turkey & Per·
ofThe Nation and theEncyclopedia 
before several courts with anti-tmst Sla. Silk mvestn.allt p1eces. Super Chmese, Bokaras, lsphahans, Hunting
ofSocial Sciences. 
t. d hd d f Scene Kashmir Oums, Ke,shan, Sculptured Aubussons, Tree of Life Tabriz, comp 1 am -s an a 0 gepo ge ° Kermans and Hallway Runners. Approximale sizes range from 2x3 to 
other claims and counterclaims. The fight is complicated by the presence of United Technologies,
Plannermen 
which earlier this month jumped in on Marietta's side. Those two firms agreed that llnited Technologies would make a separate offer for con­trol of Bendix, and that the winner would sell some ofBenu!x's assets to the loser. 
United Technologies said yester­day it wa~ still supporting Marietta and wa~ studying its options in light of Bendix's purchase of stock in \tarietta, a leading aerospace com­pany. 
Some analysts said they expected United Technologies to drop out. in part because the Hartford, Conn.­based conglomerate with aerospace imerests made its offer contingent on Bendix not buying Marietta. 
Neither Bendix nor Marietta would discuss the possible conse­quences of their contlicting merger bids. 
Although other major corpora­tions have threatened in the past to buy control ofeach other, one or the other or both have backed down. 
Joseph S. Phillippi, a securities analyst at Dean Witter Reynolds, said he had not seen a collision of merger bids "on a scale like this" in IS years on Wall Street. "It would be a real mess," he said. 
On Thursday, a federal judge in Baltimore extended for I 0 days the dates on which the three companies could begin buying any stock sub­mitted in their offers. A few hours later, a "'th U.S. Circuit Court of Ap­peals judge overturned that ruling. 
··············5···················································· 
Bring this add t;o the auction and you will receive SSO.OO off your purchase. Minimum purchase $200.00. Limit to one card per purchase. 
We will liquidate a large selection of BARDMADE, PBBSIOR and OBIERTAL RUGS sold piece by piece to the HIGHEST BIDDER 
Public Auction 
PERSIAN & Q 
, , , R IE NTA l RUGS 
!hiS hst; mcludeS OVer400valuahl:> HANDMADE PERSIAN & ORlEN· 
, 1 Ox14 

SURDAY MABBIO'l'T BOTBL Sept;. 19 at; 3pm Ball Boom South Bend 
DOOR 
PRIZE 

PREVtEW: One hour pnor GIVEN 
Auctioner: Gabriel Parahan: This oller only vaiid lor above mentioned auction. Void ...,here prohibited by law. A cert,:,car~ of Va:ue & Auth~n!icrty w.rn e·.·'~•Pf rug P•.JfCMased 
ierms:cuh, check or charge 117..a48·BUGS 
8701 Keystone Crossing Indianapolis 46&40 
CRoyoQ QoQQe~ry Ob CRug~. 91lr~. 
...................................................................: 
-


begin Emery memorial 
A memorial fund has been formed in Kevin Emery's name by the mem­bers ofsection 'A Flanner. 
The fund will provide money for a scholarship at Kevin's high school, at the request of Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Emery. Also, the money will he used to place a statue of of St. Patrick at the Grotto, in memory of Kevin. 
Anyone who would like to donate money can stop by in any room of section 7A in Flanncr Hall. Checks can be made payable to the Kevin Emery Memorial Fund. 
South Bend's Hottest Spot Two full Bars Hot sandwiches & Pizza Catty out beer & THE liquor --........p__qliHou. 
................ 'Sl 

1block south of.......... Holiday Inn US 31 N. Open 'til Jam 
..............................._.............,_........._....,.._..,.._~ 


The Observer Saturday, September 18, 1982-page 8 
------------------~------------------------------------------~ 
Laborleader 


Dubinsky dies in New York 

NEW YORK (AP) -David Dubinsky, liberator of the sweat­shops and master builder of the In­ternational Ladies' Garment Workers' Union, died yesterday of complications from hip surgery. He was90. 
Dubinsky died in St. Vincent's Hospital where he had been ad­mitted in earlyjuly, the hospital said. 
A private funeral was planned. A memorial service was scheduled for Sept. 26 at the David Dubinsky Auditorium of Manhattn's Fashion Institute ofTechnology. 
"David Dubinsky was a man of genius, imagination, daring and creativity," said Sol C. Chaikin, presi­dent of the ILGWU, contacted by telephone while on an AFL-CIO mis­sion in johannesburg. 
"He was a great leader of the gar­ment workers and a great leader of the American labor movement who pioneered in extending labor's vi­sion beyond bread-and-butter issues to include civil rights, community needs and international affairs." 
AFL-CIQ president Lane Kirkland said Dubinsky, "as much as any man, helped to write a vital chapter in the history of the modern American labor movement. We have lost a leader ofnational stature in all ofthe social and economic struggles of his time." 
Those struggles began 75 years ago in Lodz, in Russian-controlled Poland, where he joined in a strike at a bakery owned by his father. 
They ended in 1966 when, having built the ILGWU from a bankrupt union with 45,000 members to a multimillion-dollar enterprise with almost 450,000 members, he an­nounced his retirement. 
"I didn't have a life," he said. "I had a union life." 
During his career, he expanded labor's interest from the meat-and­potatoes issues of wages and hours to health and welfare, low-cost housing and the cultural life of the worker. 

Before the game stop into 
:::::~: ::::::::::~: ::::~:~:~:::~:~: 

PIZZA PASTA 
::::::~:~:~:::~:~::~~:::::::::::::: 

433 N. Hill 232-2512 
Take your favorite sandwiches to the game: 
• Foot long Hero 
• Roman Romance 
•Mozzaham • Mozzaba/1 

• Muffoletta Plus over 25 varieties ofsandwich meats 
We deliver at 7:00 and 8:00 call to order 
Try our Fighting Irish Sandwich too!!! open 9 to 9 Closed Sunday 
Fernando Herrera demonstrates his home computerprogram in New York last week that be designed to aid his 5 -year-old son, who was born with cataracts. "My First Alphabet" also walked away with a $25,000 grand prize from Atari, Inc. for the best new program of1981. (AP) 


~~ 
NOTRE DAMEvs. MICHIGAN HOME NIGHT GAME Saturdav. September 18, 1982 
~ Special Attractions *******************• 
..SPECIALHOURS. SPECIALMENU. 
-Open noon to1 am . Featuring our regular dinner menu including all your Bar-B-Que favorites. Famous low prices too! SPECIAL CARRY OUT SERVICE· 
By popular demand: our Hickory smoked ribs and chicken offered 'to go'. Call ahead for details and prompt service. 
SPECIAL SANDWICH MENU. 
Not available any other time, but for this event. Extra generous B·B·O Beef, french dip , ham and swiss-each only $4.25or Chicken Teriyaki at $4.95. 
Special Late Night * EARTHSHAKERS $2.00 


SPECIAL 3driroks iro oroe

*BUCKETS OF BOOZE $4.00 SPECIAL 6ozolbooze 
* PITCHERS OF BREW 
SPECIAL !jj;3.75 

*LITRES OF MARGARIT AS 
SPECIAL $4.95 

11 PM -2:30AM in the lou~ only 
Jazz Up Your Walls  
with a s~lection from  
Northern Indiana's finest collection of  
poster art and original works.  
:;;!  
3: ~  We frame--Plain or fancy  
-<0  
C)0  Open rues-Sat 10:00-9:00  ~ C)  
~  Sunday 12:00-5:00  ~  
~  in the 100 Center, Mishawaka  ~  
0E ,L~/Ien1 (next to the Ice House ~ ) ~  

<= l3"1' Cja) 259-8538 C) 
<= ~ 
1'11 SECUNDA YMOTHER WELL VASAREL Y ::tJ 

.---------------------------------~~~-----•--z-•-w--------•---q•~-----·---·-----------~~---~-------------l 
----------------------------· ---------------­The Observer Saturday, September 18, 1982-page 9 
Crossword puzzle con test offers mansion as prize 
CHARLESTON. W.Va. (AP) -sell the four-acre, 19-room estate Anyone with a sharp pencil, a sharp that was built by a mining tycoon in wit and the S250 entry fee can take a a ritzy southern West Virginia com­stab at living like a millionaire coal munity near Beckley. baron in a unique crossword puzzle "We advertised in exclusive 
contest. publications across the country hut "It's E-S-T-A-T-E_ what I'd call it," nobody was willing to pay what it is said William Ellis, promoter of the worth," the realtor said. "So, we crossword giveaway. decided to make it the grand prize in 
And that six-letter answer is the a contest based on skill." only one Ellis is willing to divulge in He made it a skill contest rather a contest that has a s 1.4 million man­than a game of chance, he said, be­
sion as the prize. cause West Virginia law forbids lot­Ellis, president of jamon Corp.. teries. 
has spent more than a year trying to Entrants in the crossword contest must put up $250. If and when Ellis gets 5,000 entries, for a kitty of s 1.25 million, the contest begins. If he doesn't get enough entries, he
... Game 

said he would refund the fees al­ready collected. 
"So far we've gotten about 10 per­continuedfrom page 3 cent of the entries we need. However. we've only been collect­
and can it'entify students. ing entries for three weeks, and the This street in Fleming-Neon, Kentucky was last week. ( AP) 
Those people needed for crowd contest brochures just hit Charles­strewn with debris after flood waters receeded control and other difficult situations ton on Thursday," Ellis said_ would be placed in dangt>r-sensitive points. He said the prize, which is in the 
Son missingin Korea
Students felt the majority of community of Glade Springs, was problems will come from outsiders built for $1 A million during the coal and not members ofthe Notre Dame boom of the 1970s by mining 



White fatnily continues vigil 
community. tycoon Alexander "Zan" Campbell. Senior Tim Bozik thinks there is Later, when the coal market began 
By RAY FORMANEK for some word about their son, an 20, crossed the border into North
too much concern about security. to sour, Campbell mortgaged the Associated Press Writer Army private who disappeared Aug. Korea, denounced the foreign"There will not be many problems house to the Flat Top National Bank 28 while standing guard duty in the policy ofthe United States and asked
from students...we live here and un­at Bluefield for. more than s 1 mil­ST. LOCIS (AP)-The American Korean demilitarized zone. for political asylum.
derstand that if anything serious lion. Now Campbell hopes to unload flag which used to cover the win­"My husband can't swallow his Although the United States has re­goes wrong, we have to live with the the mansion and pay off the dow of joseph T White's second­food and I'm having trouble eating quested a face-to-face meeting with
consequences." mortgage. 
story bedroom is gone, packed away too," said Mrs. White, nervously lig­the soldier and asked other foreignA South Bend resident in the im­in a closet by his grieving parents. ting another in an endless chain of governments to intervene, themediate Northeast Neighborhood He said the puzzles had been 
Gone, too, the that cigarettes. North Koreans will not allow White
warned of a "greater possibility of designed by a free-lancer in Newjer­are posters adorned the walls and a picture of a "If it hadn't been for prayer, ·I to meet with American officials or
vandalism" due to the unusually sey who has often worked for a na­girlfriend. think she'd be in the outhouse," call his parents.
heavy flow of traffic at night. tional crossword puzzle syndicate. One floor below, Kathleen and added the missing soldier's father.
The student added. however, that "Each one will be a certified. night football is an exciting event for original, previously uncirculated Norval White spend anxious days by "And so would 1." "We're just totally confused," said 
the telephone, waiting and praying North Korean officials say White, Mrs.
both Notre Dame and South Bend. puzzle," he said. White. 

YOU'RE WASTING PRICES GOOD YOUR MONEY THRU 
BUYING September 18 ANYWHERE ELSE! 
TAILCiATER'S SPECIALS 
:····················································







i HAffiffi'S J4.99ii
it:RoM THE LAND OF CASE 
* SKY~BLU~~A1~R'' ~ 
********************. , ...., . * •i***********************.. 
Beer Specials -iC Quart Specials -iC Kegs-iC 
Miller Lite case $6.99 -iC Old Milwaukee $7.49 ~ Budweiser $29.99 Budweiser $8.99 ... Pabst
Michelob case $8.99 -iC s28.99 Coors 6-pak $3.49 -iC Miller $8.99 -iC Michelob $33.99 Old Style case $6.99 -iC Miller Lite $8.99 -iC Generic $21.99 Mickeys Malt case btl $7.49 -iC -iC Miller or Lite $29.99 
LORD 
750ML
CALVERT 


Lord of the Canadians Jack Daniels $7.99 Bacardi Rum $5.99 

Janqueray Gin $8.99 7Crown $5.99 Wild Turkev 86 $7.99 J· ROGET cr1 99 
American Ch~mpagne fl •
1.75 LITER 

1.75ML (Spumonte, White, Pink Burgundy 
RIUNITE 
and Aim ante) 

Kamchatka VODKA $7.99 Calvert GIN $8.99
I .......... 
Canadian Mist $10.99 Ushers SCOTCH $1-0.99
i\~~ $1 ~9 
Fl..AVORED BRANDY ...___, 750 ML. 
Apricot, Blackberry, or Cherry $5.99 
~r~--~~~----------P--~~-~--­
Saturday, September 18, 1982 page 10


Editorials 
• 

Responsibilities of Pacifism 
Nuclear disarmament has become one of the most compelling issues ofour day, and the mass demonstration in favor of arms reduc­tions held earlier this summer in New York left little doubt that the movement enjoys considerable national support. Yet despite the great crowds, the innumerable professions of "nuclear pacifism," there remains good reason to doubt both America's dedication to disarmament and our honest desire for peace. 
Mike Mazzoli 

Guest Columnist 
Just a few days before the June r·all", the New York Times published a poll w~ich seems to indicate a fundamental lack ofcom­mitment among Americans to true disarma­ment. Nearly 90/ of those questioned supported a freeze if it would result in parity between the U.S. and the Soviet Union, and could be readily verified; but when those con­ditions were removed, that broad support fell to less than 20 percent. The poll. in short. shows a support for disarmament both widespread and profoundly shallow, and sug­gests that American priorities ultimately con­tradict the spirit of arms reductions. We may insist on parity before reduction forver; we have an arms race to achieve precisely that equality. But if, by some miracle, we and the Soviet Union could attain an exact parity; and ifboth sides should agree honestly and openly to disarm; would the prospects for peace be any better? In fact, assuming that miracle might occur: would the chances for disarma­ment be any better? 
Archbishop Raymond G. Hunthausen, one of the most eloquent and insightful spokes­men for disarmament, stated in a speech delivered last year that America would have to surrender no less than its position of ad­vantage and luxury in the world before we could even entertain the thought of arms reduction. "Nuclear arms protect privilege and exploitation. Giving them up would mean our having to give up economic power over other peoples. Peace and justice go together. On the path we now follow, our economic policies toward other countries require nuclear weapons. ·Giving up the weapons would mean giving up the reason for such ter­ror-our privileged place in the world." 
'When one man takes advantage of another, he makes himself an enemy; the rules of life are that simple. And if one makes enemies as a common practice, his strength becomes a matter of survival. The fondest hope of the nuclear pacifist may be the elimination of nuclear weaponry, but the question remains: 
could a powerles:-; United States survive in a world of enemies? And are we prepared to make the sacrifices to live in a world without exploiting our neighbors? 
To many, Archbishop Hunthausen might seem to advocate an economic suicide, and surely the simple impoverishment ofAmerica would do no one any good. But in fact he speaks of "privilege;" and privilege we could relinquish without suffering economic ruin. To give only one example of such privilege: 
the United States and other developed nations fix high tariffs on processed goods, like textiles, imported from Third World countries, to protect our developed in­dustries at home. This policy also has the ef­fect of making manufacturing in Third World nations prohibitively expensive, and of perpetuating their poverty. An undeveloped nation cannot sell its processed textiles in the llnited States, and so must depend on export­ing its raw cotton to our mills; unfortunately, the cost of the fnished product, which that country must then buy back from us, is many times the price it received for its raw cotton -and the price of textiles rises still faster than the market price for cotton. According to the World Bank's 19H I World Developmental Report, removing tariffs on the processed varieties of eight agricultural products "would increase the value added in developing-country processing by an es­timated 20 percent or more." Removing those tariffs would without question require a sacrifice on America's part -in jobs lost, and falling ,prices -but some compensation might be possible: a concentration on new in­dustf)', perhaps. And perhaps improving markets in developing Third World nations · might revive older American industries. But whatever the outcome, the necessity of abandoning our priviledge in the world is in­escapable; our future rests on that "justice." 
Disarmament is not an act of pacifism, whatever its good intentions; it is at best merely a renunciation ofviolence, at worst an act of cowardice, of fear of personal destruc­tion. Pacifism requires an active effort. a com­mitment to justice. which must precede any hope of disarmament. The costs of peace are enormous, but to fail now wou;d cost us even more; and until we begin to work toward peace, the activists' slogans shall 1enuin empty, and the great demonstrations sym­bolic ofnothing. 


P.O. Box 

Tradition and change at N.D. 
The following letter was written by the 
When one attempts by familiarity and munity. the other way around. 
parents ofKevin Emery, who died ear~y last 
knowledge to assess the nature of a society If this statement seems doubtful, only wit­
Sunday morning in a car accident. The let­
from the inside, it is also useful to analyze its ness attempts on the part of faculty and Yet this community is not one which en­
ter was delir>ered to the residents ofFlanner 
courages the exercise of the diversity which
aspects from the outside, in relation to other students here to live lifestyles or take actions 
Hall last Thursday evening at a memorial 
humanity embraces. All 19H of the religious
societies. Notre Dame, thougi:J drawing its contrary to the values of the establishment. It 
service. 

services offered weekly on campus are Roman
is not particularly revered, nor even in some 
As Kevin's Mom and Dad, we first of al 
Catholic, though many of the people among
cases possible, to avoid aspects of this com­

Karen Miranda
would like to thank all ofyou for being here 
us. are not. Free speech is essential to liberal
munity and still remain a part ofit. 
education. yet all orations and material
tonight to remember and honor our dear 
Overview There are many endeavors an individual printed for distribution or display must t1rst
son, Kevin. May emotions and thoughts run 
may undertake, which though in accordance 
he approved by the University.
through our minds as we think of the many 
with his civil liberties, constitutional rights 
Dorm life is regulated not solely out of
joyous and happy memories of Kevin that 
population from a wide geographical area, 
and human freedoms, can still get him kicked 
respect for residents, but as an institutional at­
we treasure. We are grateful to God for the 
unifies its people through the commonality of 
off campus or out of Notre Dame altogether. tempt to enforce a moral code. No family
• beautiful gift of 19 years we shared so close­
culture. We have a very homogeneous com-
How far can a private institution go in requir­
member of the opposite sex may stay over­
ly and intimately with him. 

ing its patrons to follow rules which restrict 
night in a dorm room, even during a football
God in His infinite wisdom has Kevin with 

their nationally inherited rights? Apparently, 
weekend when all the inns in South Bend are
Him in His hands now. Both of us know that 
pretty far. After all, this is a place to which we full.
Kevin is happy to be with God. 

all freely come, as a part of perpetuating the Female professors are discouraged from
Many beautiful things have happened in 
values without which N.D. would presumably
the midst ofthese past tragic five days, but it 
protesting their rights in court, and students 
not be N.D.

would be impossible to share all of these 
are asked not to take Non-Western religion for 
theology credit. Is Notre Dame simply in·
reflections with you now. 

The question I address is not how dedicated 
tolerant, or rather in fear for its survival as a
We will ask Father Van Wolvlear to bring 
each of us should be to White, Upper-middle 
Roman Catholic Institution?
back a chalice which we would like to stay in 
class Roman Catholic values. I seek rather a 
I am not advocating that Notre Dame
Flanner so that all of you (:an remember 
realistic assessment of the relationship be­
should be all things to all people. Opening its
Kevin especially at those times when you 
tween the stability ofa culture and the accep­
doors to every differing value system would
celebrate Mass together. 

tance of new ideas including, God forbid, 
create tremendous conflicts (though I per­
Notre Dame meant so much to Kevin, He 
breaks with tradition in the name ofingenuity. 
_sonally believe a more dynamic environ­
loved all ofyou so dearly. It was his life, and 
My contention is that this relation is inversely 
ment). Perhaps Notre Dame would lose itself
we can appreciate now ehy the family of 
proportional. 

in a vast melting pot, which would be uncom­
Notre Dame meant so much to him in his 
The one exception, of which we may or 
fortable for many of the people who hold this
brieftime here. 

may not be proud, is our own American 
place dear.
Kevin grew up to love his God. When 
society. It derives its culture not from a tradi­
But this fact must be recognized: when one
asked to write an essay for admission to 
tional foundation but from the diversity ofthe 
culture interacts with another and its ideas,
Santa Clara University on himself, he wrote 
people it attracts and maintains. Indeed, many 
the original society changes, in sometimes
about his beliefs in God and how he prayed. 
foreigners have judged the United States to 
very drastic ways. Human life is not static.
As he grew up, he came to love young and 
possess nn culture, because ofits lack oftradi­
Likewise it is impossible to preserve a com·
old, black and white, a~ways willing to give, 
tion and homogeneity But if one embraces the 
munity in its original state over a long period
never asking anything in return. This is how 
value of diversity, which Americans do, then 
of time unless it is isolated, ethnocentric, and
·our Kevin, your Kevin lived. His smile 
culture is not a question of sameness, but of 
resistant to "contamination" by conflicting
touched all who came in contact with him. 
differentiation. 
values.

We both would like to come back to 
That is precisely why Notre Dame strikes The evolution of Notre Dame involves a
spend some time with you some time during 
such a discordance with logic. We are mostly fundamental cultural choice between the
the next several months. In some special 
Americans who live here. Sacred Heart preservation of tradition and the acceptance
way we would like to think that you will take 
Church's own doorway professes the motto ofchange. Each path is mutually exclusive, if it 
the place of Kevin in our hearts and minds. 
"God, Country, Notre Dame," dictating the or­is to be truly followed. The direction Notre
We love you all, and we are very grateful to 
der ofour loyalties. The collective conscious­Dame takes will depend upon the decisions of
this beautiful Notre Dame family. Your 
ness we share is not first with Domers, then its people and will ultimately reflect the ideals
prayerful concern has been a great comfort 
Americans, then human beings, but exactly which they most value.
to us. 

Editorial Board Department Managers



_Ihe -Obserl!er 
The ()/; rert-er rs an independent new\paper publrshcd 1-->y the ~tudents of the 
/-tli/111" 111 1 hi<'/ \ltdud \Inn!.. fi/IHI/1'.~.\ lfl/1/il,lil'l" I <HI\ ·\tdlo 
Llriivcr\ily of Notre Dame duLac .tnd SJint Mary\ College. It does not ntxc~~Jrily 
llillltl,~lll.t.: Fi/i/111" lh .Ill \ er lkrl..nJOc' ( 111//1"11/11'1" I· rrt "' hul1 
rcfbt the polrrics of the adrn11mtr.ttion of either rnstitutron. The news ~~ report 
I I"<'< IIIII'<' \<'11".\ /-tli/11r "-cllr I· lull li/i't'/"//.\"/1/,t: 111/1/il,lil'l" < hrr' <)y.en 
ed a~ .ucurately and as obj(xtivdy as pos~rble. Edit-orials repre~ent the opmion of 
\\It \cu·., /-tli/111" \l.trg.trcr h"lllll<" l'rot/111 111111 .111111•1.~1'1 \l.Hrr.r \lurphy .1 maronty of the Edrtorral Board. Co.nmentaric-;, opinions and letters are the views 'l""·f_, Ft!i/111" ( ·hn' '\enllc' ( //"( llltil/111/ \ltlllil.l./1'1" l{,r\ l11gltn of therr authors. ( olumn sp.!te is avad.tble to all members ot the comrnunrty, .tnd l·t/illll"ltlls /tli/111" l'.nrl \ld >lllll I j".\/1'71/S \11/1/ll.t.:<'l. llrr~< ,. <),tl..ln the free expression of varymg opin10ns on <.a.mpu), through letters, i> enwunged. 
I l'il/111"1'.' J"i/illlr I .1r1 1\rll\\ n /'/Ju/11 1-"dilur H.tdH"I 1111111111 foundl'd ~o'l'c:mtwr 5, 1966
P.O.Box Q, Notre l>ame,IN ..M56 (219) H9-'H05 


! .-.1 . ~I 
-li


H0 W C ~~~iisiiiiii,iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiisaiituiirdiiayiii,Siiepiiteiimiibeiirii18ii.
, ii19iiS2iiiiiiipaiigeiiliiil I 

What's at... 
,....., 


""'N-rTE
~ -1 -
OF ART 

Joseph Hell 

atttevlew 
'"]"1he Snite Museum ofArt is cur­
.1 rently hosting three exhibitions in its galleries. In the Print, Drawing and Photograph Gallery, until Oc­tober 10, isSculptors' Drawings. In the O'Shaughnessy galleries until September 26 are the showsWomen Artists: Indiana-New York Connec­tion and the annuaiFaculry Exhibi­tion. 
Perhaps the most exciting ofthe three shows is Sculptors' Drawings from the Museum of Modern Art in New York. The show is a collection of the drawings offorty-t three late 19th and 20th century sculptors. These works explore not only the process ofexperimentation and reevaluation involved in the earliest stages ofa sculptor's work, but his plastic concerns as well. 
Two prominent, early sculptors included in the show are Henri Matisse and Auguste Rodin. Matisse's pen drawings, "Madeline", "The Back I" and "The Back II" give the viewer a look at the earliest stages ofa series offour monumental bronzes that will end in highly simplified, abstract expressions. Rodin's pure and simple, watercolor and pencil drawings, "Crouching Figure" and "Reclining Figure" radiate the same potential.energy that one finds in his sculpture. 
Alexander Calder. inventor of the 
mobile, captures the movement of 
alternate planes in space in his com­position of black circles on a blank page entitled, "Many". Using drawing for a different reason, artist Claes Oldenberg presents his views on the proper subject matter for sculpture in "The Hamburger". 

javachefChristo's work, "Packed Tree", gives us a glimpse of the kind ofsculpture that will appear at an ex­hibition ofworks at the Snite this Spring. The work, a collage, is a plan for a project that would, in effect, package a tree from the roots to the branches. 
One ofthe few color works in the show is jacques Lipchitz' "Study for the Rape of Europa IV". Here, Lip­chitz, with flowing, rhythmic lines and controlled color demonstrates his abilities outside of the sculptor's realm. 
Other innovative works that ap­pear are those of Robert Morris and Alice Ayecock. More architectural than sculptural, these works are drawings for large scale environ­mental sculpture. 
Women Artists: Indiana-New York Connection is a selection of works by nine artists from each of those states. An attempt to illustrate that there are female artists in In­diana ofthe same caliber as their New York counterparts, the show emphasizes the innovative aspect of their art -the most obvious of 
which is their desire to reach beyond traditional media and sub­ject matter and employ media and subject matter more suitable to their uniquely female situation. 
The decorative arts, such as weaving, embroidery, and tapestry-. making are here raised to the fine arts level. In the works, "Zig Zag Stick'' and "Flying Carpet", artists Anne McKenzie Nickolson and joAnn Giordano have removed these crafts from the sewing room and placed them in the artist's studio. 
joan Semmel's "Double Breasted Arch" provides a personal, intro­spective and very sensual look at a subject matter that has been employed exclusively by males for centuries -the nude. By painting a highly detailed nude and a loosely painted image ofone directly around it, Semmel allows the viewer to become part of the picture and view the body as if it were his own. 
Two works whose female author­ship has no specific artistic impact on them are Cynthia Huffs "Darling Can't You See We Have Company" and Selina Trieffs untitled work ofa woman seated with two pigs. Huffs work provides a new look at a time honored genre -still life. Her work leads the viewer into intense ex­aminations ofodd combinations of objects through dramatic lighting 
and intense color. Trieffs work represents a woman whose physiog­nomy closely resembles that of the two pigs on the floor next to her, suggesting the sad and humorous relationship between the animal and human worlds. 
Heretofore the innovative direc­tions taken by these women have been worthwhile. However, this is not entirely the case. Because various female artists were able to capitalize on characteristics par­ticular to that gender certainly "oes not mean that any female associa•:ion in a work will elevate it to the level ofart. 
Harmony Hammond's arch shaped constructions ofwood, cloth and plastic serve as an exafllple. Hammond's assumption (in the catalogue to the show) that the in­corporation offemale hair and 

-female clothing will add "their per­sonal power" to her pieces is absurd. Instead ofcreating a natural, self­sustaining art form, Hammond presents us with a work that depends on female hair and clothing for its success. Unfortunately, her work fails. The worK creates no more ofan impression ofa female "sexual presence" (as she calls it in the catalogue) than they do McDonaldland arches. 
Faculty Exhibition 82 by neces­sity has only one coherent theme ­it affords the student a look at the various artistic currents represented by the faculty at Notre Dame. Here is one rare opportunity for the student to be the judge instead ofthe judged. 
Outstanding among the works is Thomas Fern's "Self-Portrait". This difficult subject matter is treated with great attention to detail by Fern. The large 4 1/2 x 6 1/2 foot canvas depicts the artist at his easel in an outdoor setting. Fern's atten­tion to detail and the subtleties of color dictates the work's domina­tion ofthe room in which it is placed. 
Perhaps what is most interesting in the work of Douglas Kinsey is the emotional relationship that he es­tablishes between the primary and secondary figures in "Ballad I" and "Ballad II". Each presents a guitarist in the foreground and one or more figures in the background. In the for­
mer case we see a couple, flooded 
with intense light, sitting on a bed, 
presumably talking. In the latter we 
see a woman whose gesture and fa­
cial expression suggest ecstacy. : 
Here Kinsey has transformed the 
typical group portrait into an in­
triguing, somewhat metaphysical 
scene. 
Other faculty works which can be viewed are Bill Kremer's works in stoneware and porcelain; Moira· Geoffrion's paper and wood sculpture; Frederick Beckman's collages; George Tisten's graphite drawings; Richard Gray's series of color xerox collages; Dick Stevens' kallitypes; Don Yogi's woodcuts, serigraphs and acrylic paintings; Fr. james Flanigan's charcoal drawings and chapel furniture; Holly Howard Marti's vestments and Robert Leader's oil paintings. 
Robert Mackie's sculpture, "Fossil Flouresence", is a study in light and form that, unfortunately, looks very much like a science fair project. However, in this case it is not the limitations ofthe artist, but ofthe museum that force the work to suf­fer. The work, a light sculpture, demands a controlled environment in order to achieve its given effect. The environment in which it is placed is quite the opposite. Flooded with incandescent light as well as natural light, the armatures supporting the sculpture become obstrusive and the lit bulbs no lon­ger have any ofthe desired effect. In­stead of the subtle interplay between light, form and space, we see the elimination ofa sculpture's potential. 
··.• 
... 

--·------­
--·----·--··--·---~·-­
The Observer Saturday, September 18, 1982 -page 12. 






STARTING JANUARY 1. 
Starting January 1. you'll be able to "visit" your Notre Dame Credit Union around the clock. seven days and seven nights a week. That's when The Exchange goes into action. The Exchange is our 24-hour automatic teller machine. As a member. your card will allow you to deposit. withdraw and perform a variety of financial transactions anytime you please. The pace of a student is often hectic enough. Your Exchange card will let you avoid rushing over to the Credit Union and standing in long lines. You'll visit us at your convenience. 
Use your Notre Dame Credit Union just about anywhere you please, too, because The Exchange is active nationwide. You'll visit us from Connecticut to California. anywhere you see the friendly Exchange sign. And you can end the hassle of getting money wired to you. If there's an Exchange unit back home. you can have cash deposited to your account "instantly." 
The Notre Dame Credit Union is a full-service financial center founded over forty years 
.ago and dedicated to serving its members. If you are a member. you'll be the first to hear how to get your card. If you're not a member. call 239-6611. See if you're eligible to join. You might be pleasantly surprised to find you can be part of this non-profit. cooperative association. 
The Notre Dame Credit Union. People serving people. 
THE CARD. COMING SOON. 


~j)()f1tS~/~~;~:=i~~;!~~S======~~===================Sa=tu=rd=a=y=,S=ep=t=em=b=e=r=18=,=1=98=2~=p=ag=e=1=3
B\' The Ohsen•er and The Associated Press 
Notre Dame basketball greats Adrian Dantley, 
• • • Baseball
Kelly Tripucka and Austin Carr, and 15 other former Notre Dame 
players will be returning to the ACC todayto participate in the Logan With one out in the seventh,Center Benefit Basketball Game. The game is being organized by continuedfrom page 15 
Yesterday's Reaults

Tabler beat out an infild single off
Notre Dame assistant basketball coaches Gary Brokaw and John Toronto 6, California 2 
Darrell Sconiers. Angels left-hander starter Bill Gullickson, 11-12. Tabler Cleveland 5. Baltimore 3 Shumate, both former Irish All-Americans who will play in the game. 
Detroit 5. Boston 1 Tip-off is set for 1 this afternoon just seven hours before Notre Dame Milwaukee 14, New York 0 
TommyJohn, 12-12, lasted only 2 1-went to second on Mel Hall's single, 
3 innings, giving up three runs on six and both runners moved pon a wild Oakland at Ch1cago, ppd.. rainopens its 1982 football season against Michigan at Notre Dame 
hits. pitch by Gullickson. Davis then flied Minnesota 5, Kansas City 4 
Stadium. Tickets are $6 in the lower arena and S4 for upper arena. -Seattle 6, Texas 0 
The setback was California's third to deep center field to drive in
The Observer 

in a row while the Blue Jays won Tabler and give Chicago a 2-1 lead. Today'a Games CalifOrnia (Witt 9-5) at Toronto (Gott 1·0) 
their fourth straight. In the ninth, Tabler walked with 
Boston (Ramey 7-4) at Detroit (Ujdur 8-B) Barfield gave Toronto a 1-0 lead in two out off reliever Jeff Reardon. Kansas City (Blue 13-9) at Minnesota (Williams 8-7) Cleveland (Whi11son 4·2) at Baltimore (McGregor 13­
the second inning when he led off Hall was hit by a pitch, and Davis 
12), n with his 14th homer of the season. delivered Chicago's third run with a New York (Howell1·1) at Milwaukee (McClure 10-7). 
Fellowship ofChristian Athleteswill hold 
their next meeting on Monday, Sept. 20, at 7 p.m. in the St. t Ed's n.
Damaso Garcia, making his first single to left. 
Oakland (Kingman 3·11) at Ch1cago (Lamp 10·7). n.
lounge. All are invited to attend. -The Observer 
start since Aug. 22, hit a one-out Randy Martz, 10-9, scattered six Texas (Mason 0-1) at Sea111e (Moore 7-11), n. Tomorrow's Games
triple in the third inning and scored hits in 6 2-3 innings for the victory. 
California at Toronto on Garth lorg's single. Lee Smith picked up his 13th save. Boston at DetrOit Cleveland at Balt1more 
lorg went to second on a wild 
Oakland at Chicago 'Wake' Up the Echoes,' a brand new Notre Dame pitch by John, and Barry Bonnell Kansas City at Minnesota football highlight film produced by the renowned NFL Films, will be New York at Milwaukee 
followed with a single to chaseJohn 
Texas at Seattle 
shown to the public tomorrow in the Library Auditorium. The 50-and bring on Dave Goltz. Barfield minute film will be shown each hour from 3 to 9 p.m. and spans the then drove in lorg with a groundout. history ofIrish football from 1888 to the present. -The Observer w L Pet. GB 
St. LOUIS 83 63 568
Twins 5,Royals 4 Soccer team 
Philadelphia 88 66 571 -1 Montreal 79 67 541 4 Pittsburgh 78 68 .534 5
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) Tom 
Chicago 64 83 435 19.5The Notre Dame Rugby Club has its second Brunansky and Gary Ward hit two­New York 57 88 393 25.5 loses to 
match of the fall season today against Monclair St;~te. The "A" squad run homers after two were out in the West 
Los Angeles 84 64 568 will kick off the action at 11 a.m. on the fields behind Stepan Center. third inning, leading the Minnesota Atlanta 80 67 544 3.5 San Francisco 77 70 .524 6.5 
-The Observer Twins to a 5-4 victory over the 
Buckeyes·
San D1ego 75 73 507 9 Kansas City Royals last night. Houston 68 79 463 15.5 Cincinnati 55 92 374 28.5
Brad Havens, 9-12, earned the vic­Ohio State tallied three first half 
tory, giving way to reliever Ron Yesterday's Results St. Louis3-7, New York 2·1, l~rst game 
goals and withstood a valiant Notre
Davis with none out and two on in
The ND Women's Cross Country Club Chicago 3. Montreal 1 Dame surge through the final 30the ninth inning. After getting Cesar Cinc1nnat1 5, Atlanta 2 
opens its season today at the Roadrunner Relays hosted by South­minutes as the Buckeyes dumped
Pi11sburgh 4, Philadelphia 2 
Geronimo to ground into a
western Michigan Junior College. -The Observer 
Los Angeles 9. Houston 2 the Irish 3-1 in college soccer action
doubleplay, Davis gave up a tw()-run · San Dtego 4, San FranciSCO 2 Today's Games last night at Cartier Field.
homer to Willie Aikens, his 14th. 
Chicago (81rd 9·12) at Montreal (Lerch 1-0) 
The Buckeyes drew first blood on
Davis earned his 20th save. San D1ego (Eichelberger 6· t 2) at San FranCISCO 
(Gale6-14) a tallie by Jim Pickar and at 36:29
The Royals took a 1-0 lead in the
The ND Ski Team will hold an optional intra-squad St. LoUis (Forsch t 4-9 and Stuper 7-6) at New York notched the game winner on a
second inning on Frank White's. 
(Falcone 8·9 and Terrell 0·0), t-n. P1ttsburgh
softb;,tll game tomorrow at 3:30 prn. Team members are asked to 
ninth homer. The Twins struck back (Robinson 15-10) at Philadelphia (Krukow 12-10), n penalty kick by Tom Costello. The meet outside Gate 10 of the ACC. -The Observer Atlanta (P. Niekro 14-3) at Cinc1nnat1 (Harns 2-6), n 
visitors padded their lead ro 3-0 on aat the American League West leaders 
Houston (J Niekro 16·1 0) at Los Angeles (Wnght 2­in the third. 1), n. breakaway goal in the last minute of 
Tomorrow's Games
Kansas City maintained its two­play in the opening half. 
Chtcago at Montreal game lead over the California An­St. Lou1s at New York Notre Dame freshman Tom Dailey
The ND Irish Flyers Club is being revived. gels, who lost 6-2 at Toronto. Pittsburgh at Philadelphia got his team on the board with justAtlanta at Cmcmnah 
Anyone interested is call277-6726 for information. -The Observer 
With two out, John Castino Houston at Los Angeles over 12 minutes to play when he San Diego at San Franctsco
singled and Brunansky followed smoked a bullet past the Buckeye with his 19th horner. Kent Hrbek AMERICAN LEAGUE goaltender from 25 yards our. From then walked and Ward belted his East then on the Irish pressed the
w L Pet. GBNotre Dame women's tennis. team 27th homer, an opposite field shot Milwaukee 87 60 592 Buckeyes into defensive mistakes defeated Rosary College yesterday by a 9-0 margin to bring its Baltimore 85,62 85 62 578 2
into the stands in right field. that almost got the hosts back into
Boston 80 67 544 7
record to 3-1. -The Observer Detrott 74 71 510 12 
the ball game. 
New York 73 74 497 14
Chicago'3, Montreall But a pouring rain and a treac­
Cleveland 72 73 497 14 Toronto 69 78 469 18 herous field slowed the Irish enough
MONTREAL (AP) -Pat Tabler West to enable Ohio State to hold on for
scored on a sacrifice fly in the Kansas C1ty 84 63 .571
Student basketball ticket orders are still being the victory.
Caltfornta 82 65 558 2
seventh inning, then scored an in­
Chicago 78 67 538 5
taken on a first-come, first-served basis. Bring the application and 
Sea111e 69 77 473 14.5 Notre Dame's record falls to 2-2-1. proper remittance to the Gate l 0 ticket window of the ACC. -The Oakland 60 86 411 23.5 
surance run on Davis' single in the 
ninth as the Chicago Cubs defeated For more details on the game see
Texa·s 58 89 395 26
Observer 

the Montreal Expos 3-1 last night. Mmnesota 54 93 367 30 Monday's paper. -The Obserr>er. 

The Observer w1ll accept class1f1eds Mon­day through Fnday. 10 a.m. to 4 30 p.m. However. class1f1eds to appear 1n the next 1ssue must be received by 3 p.m. the busmess day pnor to 1nsert1on. All class1f1eds must be prepaid. 
e1ther 1n person or through the mail. 




Classifieds 
NEED 2 PURDUE GA WILL PAY BIG NEED TWO OR MORE ARIZONA TICK­TOP 20 TIME TUNNEL, STILL ON BUCKS CALL KEVIN AT 1996 ETS!I!I! PLEASE CALL MICHELE AT WSND AM 64 EVERY SUNDAY FROM 3793 IF YOU CAN HELP 6·8 PM NEED TWO MIAMI GAS 2255 GREG
~.-_NO_T_IC_Es___.ll~-..._FO_R_R_EN_T___,/ ~-..I_F_O_R_SA_LE----~ 
Need 2 GA tix to PENN ST. Call LIZ 284-To the CUTEST GUY in BAHSTON I hope WANTED: 2 GAs FOR THE ND-MIAMl 5166 you have a WICKED GOOD" weekend!!! GAME CALL JEFF at 1165 rm glad you re here, I ve m1ssed you!!! IS YOUR HAIR GETTING IN THE WAY Furn1shed home. 2 blocks lrom campus. WORD PROCESSING SYSTEM. $2995. 
Ne,;ded!! 4 PURDUE GAs or 2 ARIZONA OF YOUR STUDIES?? CALL MICHOLE Also country house, 10 mins from NO. 64K M1crocomputer, letter quahty pnnter, Need PURDUE GAs or Student tickets. GA·s $$$TOM 1723 DearJ&D. FOR A HAIRCUT TODAY! ONLY $4 FOR Call277-3604 or 288-0955 word processing software. CP/M, Bas1c $$$ Call287-3538 after 6. Have a GREAT weekend 1n Domer· Gall 277.7720 .
GUYS AND $6 FOR GIRLS BEST TO NEEDED: 2 tickets for Purdue game. Call land And please don·t let the plants CALL AFTER 3 AT 7850 Room, share kitchen, etc. 2 m1les toN D. NEED 2 gas lor PURDUE GAM~-CALL R1ch at x3210 or x3213 d1e.. .They need all the beer and wheat1es Call Mrs. Cooper 272-3004 or 272-7818 
SHOWER BAUER 284-5201 they can get---RUSSELL Improve Your Grades! Research catalog after 12 noon. 
NEED 2 PENN ST. GAS WILL PAY$$$$ --306 pages--1 0,278 Trade: Purdue-Arizona student t1x cashBROKE STUDENT NEEDS CASH !'! A 
CALL RICH x4662 FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED for for any Miami tix or Anzona GA·s call Mike PITTSBURGH CLUB TAILGATER. SAT PAIR OF 12 by 24 1nch PIONEER BAR 
SPEAKERS WITH 100 WATT
WOAD PROCESSING SYSTEM $2995 Notre Dame Ave Apts. Available or Scott 1160 SEPT 18, 3:00before M1ch game. Free to 
I HAVE MIAMI GAS WILL TRADE FOR 64K M1crocomputer,letler qual1ty printer. Immediately-lease thru X-mas at Pi11sburghers (Aiumn1 and Students).
CAPACITY, $400 00 NEW, FIRST 
PURDUE GAS CALL MARK 1067 word processing software. CP/M, Basic $90/month. Calf•1813 FOR SALE: 5 MICH. GAs & 1 STUD TIC Greenfield. look for Pitt Club s1gns
--$150.00 CAN TAKE HOME THESE 
-SPEAKERS CALl277-4043
Call 277-772'o 
.-· CALL TOM 1101. Spons. by ND Club of Pgh
NEEDED: 2 GAS FOR MIAMI. CALL BRIAN· 2187 

CAR PROBLEMS?? NEED TWO (OR MORE) PURDUE TIX. I AM A QUALIFIED MECHANIC WITH WANTED Grandparents have never seen N.D 
WILL TRADE I MICH STU TICK & CASH Fisher of Men, LOTS OF EXPERIENCE AND LOWER FOR 2 PURDUE GAs call3897 Indeed-a real catch of the day! 
-1 

game before. Call John Dolan at 3137. RATES THAN ANY GARAGE!! CALL Merma1d TODAY FOR A FREE ESTIMATE JOHN 
Willing to sacnfice VIRGINITY/money (in TICKETS HELP!!! I need 1 or 2 GA or Stu T1x's to Young. ambitious male needs a ..
AT 1852 that order) for 2 PURDUE tix. BE-M1ami. Money talks. My wallet is shout· DATE CKY/CHRIS 8708-07 ­

1ng. Charlie xt027 SHAKESPEAREANS UNITE
But if you've seen him, ATTN MOBSTERS' lost at the Commons: Shakespeare Club Meeting Monday al
you know that he has rude boy Levi Jacket if found call SULLY WILL TRADE 2 PURDUE GAS FOR 2 I NEED 4 GA PURDUE TJX BIG $$$ Need Purdue Student and GAs · Phil a better shot at football tickets. 7:00PM at the Wilson Commons Room of or TIM 8946 MIAMI GAS CALL KEVIN 1629 
CALL 1384 1764 Need 2 or 4 student or GAs to Purdue or o·Hara Grace Graduate Townhouses (on Miami CALL DAVE AT 6939 Bulla Road). Elizabethan entertainment The OBUD 24-hour phone line is now Wanted: 2 Purdue Tickets. Call M1ke at Desperately need two GAs now for M1am1 need 2 Mich. GAs Call Jim at 3342 and refreshments prov1ded! New mem­
open. Call 239-0BUD w1th your campus 234-3224. game Big Bucks. Call Joe 1469. 
bers wefcome! complaints. 
I NEED 1 PURDUE TICKET G.A. OR HOOSIER fam1ly Will BORE me to death if WANTED: Energetic, eager people for Need Purdue GA·s. 289-7640 STUDENT. CALL DICK AT 8712. I don't get Purdue tix. need 3 student. 2 LEARN FLYING FOR $450.CALL 277· general office ass1stance. Saturda:•s. 1-5, 
GA Dan 1485 MOLARITY: NO OUTLET 6726 5·9. and Sundays 9-t. 1-5. starling Sept 
DESPERATELY NEED 5 (32) TIX FOR wanted desperately' 2 g a tix to purdue. The third and final anthology of that semi­25. $3.50 per hour--p1ck your own shift MIAMI GAME CALL COLLECT (312) 
will pay bux deluxe. man 277-4573 HAVE 2 PURDUE GAS. BUT NEED 2 amusing comic strip whteh appeared '" Close to campus but must have own 961-0423. 
PENN STATE GAS CALL PAT AT 1068 The Observerfor 5 years is on sale now in transportation. Call277-5448 and ask for 
HELP! Dad·s a Purdue Alumm. Sisters a 
the Hammes Bookstore. Diane Need Many MICHIGAN GA TIX Please Purdue Freshman. Need 1 Student and 2 
call Tom at 1171 
LOST/FOUND 

GA tickets for the game. Call MoniCa at DESPERATE! WILL GIVE UP MY FIRST 
2184. 

YO KILLER­BORN SON FOR ~ MIAMI GAS CALL I need 2 Purdue GA's. PLEASEIIII Call 
PERSONALS 

WATCH OUT ND/SMC FEMALES! DENNIS-3383. John Higgins at 287-4186 (nights) or 6 GAs lor sale to Purdue game. Call SMC 

JEFF PAVLINA. ONE OF THE MANY ChriS Seem---your class schedule is 1n 239-5323 and LEAVE A MESSAGEII 4421 
GRACE 1004 ROWDIES. TURNS 18 ON 
the Observer office · WANTED: Responsi~le, hard-working 
MOLARITY UVES!! GAME DAY! ALL GIRLS ARE INVI'FED 
person for approx1maely 10 hrs. a week PLEASE! Desperately need four (4) Stu­
TO TAKE OUT THEIR POST-GAME FOUND: A KEYCHAIN CONTAINING outdoor maintenence Must hd"~ WANTED DESPERATELY--I PURDUE dent or GAs lor Miam11 Will top ALL other MOLARITY: NO OUTLET 
ENERGIES ON THIS YOUNG STUD! THREE KEYS. CONTAINS GOLD transportation Good $. Call 1-936-8507 STUD OR GA PLEASE CALL WILL 282-offers... JUSt try me!! Call Kev1n · 6831 ...Almost funny .. 
HAPPY B-OA Y!! MEDAL CALL TOM AT 1167 evemngs. 1026 Call NOW! -THE BOYS 
r---·-----~-------------­
The Observer 

~-------~---­
~--­

Buckeyes face Spartans in Big Ten action 
The Minnesota Twins defeated the Kansas City tained their two-game lead over California in the Royals last night, 5-4. The Royals, however, main-American League West. (AP Photo). 
• •• Boren 
continuedfrom page 18 
blocked kick that gave him the extra 
sense ofsatisfsction. 
"That extra point could have 
meant the game," says Boren proud­
ly. 
As it was, Boren thought the 
blocked extra point was worth more 
than it really was. "On the quarter­
back sneak, I thought I had stopped 
him," says Boren. "I was so intense, 
that I thought it was a field goal 
(attempt)." 
Indeed, it is intensity that 

epitomizes the play of Boren. The curly-haired inside linebacker likes to think of himself as a hell-bent, hit­it-if-it-moves type player. "It's how much you want to get to the ball," he says in describing why he makes so many tackles. "It's desire." 
That desire will be in abundance when Boren charges onto the playing t1eld to do battle against Notre Dame tonight. 
"It's going to be easy," says Boren. "It's on national television. It's easy to get up for national television.'' 
If Boren has a worry about the 
* * 
our 
need for 

night game against the Fighting Irish, it is in his ability to keep his intensity from getting the best of him this af­ternoon. Instead of belting a tight end out of bounds as he is ac­customed to on any given fall after­noon, Boren will be watching the second hand of a clock wind met­hodically towards game time. "I hate sitting around waiting for the game," says Horen. "It goes so slowly." 
"Usually by 9 or 10 o'clock at night I'm ready to go to bed, so I hope it doesn't hurt me," says Horen. 
* 

DELI has everything you 
ByJOE MOOSHIL 
AssociatedPress 
Ohio State invades Michigan State 
to open defense of its share of the 
Big Ten title and ~innesota tests its 
aspirations at Purdue today while six 
other conference teams battle inter­
sectional opponents. 
Illinois and Indiana, both un­defeated, will journey to opposite ends of the country. Illinois, armed with a pair of conference victories, will be at Syracuse where Tony Eason will test his aerial game in­doors. Indiana will be at Southern Cal where the Trojans are eager to avenge last week's 17-9 loss to Florida. 
Three other nonconference games will be played on conference battlefields with UCLA at Wisconsin, Iowa State at Iowa and Miami of Ohio at Northwestern, where the Wildcats hope to end their 33-game losing streak, the longest in major college football history. 
The Ohio State-Michigan State game could turn into a classic battle with Ohio State apparently resorting to a powerful ground attack now that Art Schlichter is gone and soph­omore Mike Tomczak is quar­terbacking. 
Ohio State opened with a 21-14 victory over Baylor and the Buckeyes were led by tailback Tim Spencer who gained 147 yards rus­hing and fullback Vaughn Broadnax with 10 I yards in eight carries. 
"I'm not surprised Ohio State ran the ball," said Michigan State Coach Muddy Waters. "They have a new quarterback and they're letting him feel his way. It's tough to come out 
* * 
that picnic or tailgate party including 
and do what Schlichter did for four 
years." 

Waters is glad .VIichigan State is 
playing Ohio State early in the seson 
because "They will fall into what 
they do best as te season 
progresses." 

Michigan State lost its opener to 
Illinois 2_~-16 hut the Spartans 
impressed Ohio State Coach Earle 
Bruce. 

"Even though they lost the game, they gained 'i31 yards,'' noted Bruce. "They have a fine passing at­tack, some tine receivers and they are running the ball better than they have the past two years." 
The Spartan passing attack features quarterback John Leister and receivers Otis Grant. Daryl Tur­ner and Ted Jones, considered by many as the t1nest trio in the country. 
Purdue lost its opener to Stanford and passing ace John Elway 35-14 while Minnesota opened with a 57-3 walloping ofOhio University. 
Purdue will be facing another fine passer in Minnesota's Mike Hohen­see who completed 1"' of 28 passes for 322 yards but Coach Joe Salem said "Mike had a good day but not one of his better days. He made some mistakes." 
Salem refused to see Elway's success as any weakness-on the part of Purdue's pass defense. "Elway has a feel for the game and he'll throw against anybody. His tlrst two touch­downs were perfect strikes. Purdue was in control of the game in the second half" 
* 
::.:
:.: 




"GO IRISH" and "GO BLUE" ice chests THIS WEEK THE DELI HAS 6'SUBS ON SALE FOR ONLY 59¢ PER INCH! 
* * * * * * 
•
don~t forget the :
•
IRISH ICE CREAM SHOPPE : 
•
16 f lavers of CREAMY, DELICIOUS ICE CREAM • 


................................................................................. 

The Observer Saturday,-September 18, 1982 -page 15 

Former Irish basketball captains Rich Branning and Bill Hanzlik will be among those playing in a charity basketballgame to benefit Logan Center today at I p.m. in theACC. (Observerfile Photo). 



Major League Baseball 
indians 5, Orioles,3 
BALTIMORE (AP)-Von llaves drove in four runs with a homer and a single to hack Rick Surcliffe and the Cleveland Indian~ to a 'i--~ victory la~t night over Baltimore, ~napping the Oriole,· 'ix-game winning streak. 
Baltimon· ~tarter lknnb .\lar­tinel, I+ 12.t·lllned the 'n-enth in­ning with a four-httter ami a 2-0 lead. hut nt'\Tr rl'lirnl another batter. .\like Hargrove opened the inning with a single off secondbaseman Rich Dauer·~ glove. Hayes li>llowed with hb 15th homer. a drive into the right-field blt:achers. Two pirches later. Rick Manning homered to give the Indians a -~-2 lead. It was ,\Ian­ning's eighth homer of the year. 
Sutcliffe, 1."1-6. gave up just tour hits in eight innings, walking seven and striking out six, but Ed Glynn came in to pitch the ninth after Sutcliffe had thrown 17 2 pitches. Entering the game, Sutcliffe had thrown 16 straight shutout innings against Baltimore. including a three­hit shutout last Sunday. 
Detroit 5 , Haston 1 
DETROIT (AP) -Right-hander Dan Petry won his first game since 

HEAR THE IRISH FIGHT ON MUTUAL RADIO 
Join Tony Roberts and AI Wester Saturday, September 18 as the "Fighting Irish" meet Michigan during the 15th consecutive season of national play-by-play broadcasts produced by Mutual Sports, radio's leader in sports broadcasting. 
Ml!TIJAL BROADCASTING ~YSfEMrrJ 
Aug. :n, and Chet Lemon and tookie season in the fourth inning off Brian Mike Laga hit home runs as the Denman, 2-2, and rhe Tigers made it Detroit Tigers ddeated the Boston 'i-0 in the sixth on Lemon's two-run Red Sox 'i-1 last nighL homer. his I 'ith. 
J'he win W<L~ onl) the third again~t Bo,ton li>r Petry. I 'i-H. He struck our 
Toronto 6, California 2 
three and walked the in 8 1·_>, in­nings TORO~TO ( AP) -Jesse Barfield ..._ 
l)uroit lOok a 1-0 icad'in the tlrst and Buck :\1artinez hit solo home inning when Lou Whit<~ singled run". and the Toronro Blue ja1·-; ami moved to second on't out larer handed the California Angels their on llowad Johnson's single. third straight loss laM night, 6-2. Whitaker broke tor third ,on the, BlueJap right.-handerJim Clancy. throw and was hit in the right side by 1 I 5-1-t. struck out five, walked two. center fielder Reid Nichols, the hal) and scarrered eight hits in eight-plus rolling into the Derroit dugom. innings before being relieved by Whitaker went ht'me on the error, Dale :'vlurray, who gave up a run­and Johnson moved 10 rhird heli>re scoring. oases-loaded groundout hy Larry Herndon singled him home. 
See BASEBALL, page 13
Laga hir his se.cond homer of the 
~TEAK
~® 
and CHICKEN and 
SHRIMP 

and QUICHE and 
SOUP 
and FIDUNDER and IDBSTER and 

SALAD 
... and MORE! L'nmi~t~lbbh­ddiciom in a \'~lricn· of \\'a\·~-c;>mc 111 t(>r \'our t:l\'Or·itc sck~·tion. 
52554 US 31 North 1 mile North on US 31 277-3766 
The Observer Saturday, September 18, 1982 -page 16 
Saints trade Manning to Houston 

By MIKE EMBRY 
1ssodated Press 
"''hile the spectre of a strike looms over the National Football League, it will he busme~:-. <L~ usual for thl' team:-. tonwrrow 
All games will be plaveJ. and the player:< \nll ht· pal(1 tor the•r work But after the ,.. n kl~· \londa~ !\ight Football tekc•L~t. the ,ituatton i:-. cloud\· 
1-nHlll lc:H.lers have threatened a stnke 'uesda' ii "'ignficant ''rogress" isn't made 111 the < urrent Ji~cus:o.ion:-.. Negotiator~ !rom the "<FL plavers :\ssociatton ;md .\1anagemem Council. the bargain­ing arm ofthe owners, were meeting in New York this weekt·ud. 
Regardless of what happens on the labor front, the situation has changed for quarterback Archie Manning. The 12-year veteran was traded yesterday by the New _Or-leans Saints to the Houston Oilers 


for offensive lineman Leon Gray. 
Manning lost his starting job with 
the Saint!> when free-agent Ken 
~tabler was acquired two weeks 
before the starr of the season. 
In last week's game against St. 
l.oub, a 21-"1 loss, Manning com­
pleted only one of ~t·ven passe~ tor 
three rants and was imt·rceptnl 
'win·. Stahler wa:-. 19 lJf 2-ti>r 221 
\ ard:-. .md a touchdown. 
Week Two ot the :'\iF!. :-.cason 
began Thursdav mght wlu:n tlw Buf· 
talo Bills edged the Minnesota 
\'iking:-. 2.~-22. 
Tomorrow. it':-. Baltimore Jt 
\liami. l :incinnJti at Pittsburgh. th~· 
New York Jets at \Jew Englan<l, San 
Diego at K;~nsa.~ Citv. Seattle at Hous­
ton, Dallas at St. Louis. Detrmt at the 
Los Angeles Rams, New Orleans at 
Chicago, Washingron at Tampa Bay, 
the Los Angeles Raiders at Atlanta, 
Philadelphia at Cleveland and San 
Francisco at Denver. 
Monday night, it's Green Bay at 
the New York Giants. 
The Dallas Cowboys aren't ready 
to panic after losing their first 
opener in 1 7 years last Monday night 
to Pittsburgh. They also haven't lost 
their first two games of the season 
since 1963. 
"1 don't think we've lost any con­
fidence," said Randy White, the 
Cowboys' All-Pro defensive tackle. 
"I still think that we bave'a team that 
can do pretty much what it wants tO 
do. We've just got to execute it out 
there on the field." 
Denver and San Francisco both 
have something to prove after losing 
last week. The Broncos lost 23-3 to 
San Diego, while the 49ers were 
beaten .23-17 by the Raiders. 
"We better execute better or we 
won't beat anyone," said Denver 
Coach Dan Reeves, whose team 
went 4-0 in pre-season. "We're a 
good t~am but not a super team, and 
we have to play extremely well to 
win." 
Cincinnati will try to continue its domination of the Steelers in an im­portant American Football Con­ference Central showdown. The Bengals have won four straight games over Pittsburgh. 
Colts' quarterback Mike Pagel, who suffered a mild concussion last week against New England, is ex­pected to play against Miami. The rookie signal caller completed seven of I 5 passes for 71 yards in his debut. 
The Jets will be trying to avoid mistakes against the . Patriots. The Jet~ turned the oall over four time!l 
and were penalized 91 yards in a 45­
28 loss to Miami last Sunday. 
Houst .on running back Earl 
Campbell will be ti]·ing to break out 
of a slump. He has gone ll straight 
games without ru~hing over I00 
yards. 
The Redskins, a surprise 37-3-l 
winner over the Eagles in their 
•
lJWnt·r, will be out to aven.~e a ..!H­I •, preseason lo~:-. to Tampa Bay. 

•'he 
New Urlea113 defensive unit will have its work cut om tn·ing to '>lllp Chicago', \\ alt1:r P•n ton. ·rhe :,,tints have gone i ~ ,~ames Without allowing a runnmg back to gam more than 100 ya• ds. 


Payton, fourth on the all-rime rus­hing list, gained onlv 26 varus on I'i carries against the Lions last Sunday. 
Philadelphia will try to reve~se past performances when it faces the Browns at Cleveland. The Eagles have lost five straight to the Browns and haven't won in Cleveland since a 31-29 triumph in 1960. 
A similar situation exists for Kansas City. The Chiefs will be trying to snap a seven-game losing streak to San Diego. 
Atlanta will try to contain Raiders' rookie running back Marcus Allen, who rushed for 116 yards on 23 carries against the 49ers in his NFL debut. 
...NFL 
continuedfrom page 18 
for the NFL Management Council, that S1.6 billion was available for the players. Garvey said the new plan would cut the players in for a share of any income from NFL games on cable or pay TV. Currently, all NFL games are telecast on free TV by the major networks, ABC, CBS and NBC. 
The association made its offer in the form of a counter-proposal to the owners' Sept. 8 offer that in­cluded over Sl.6 billion in bonuses and increased benefits over the next five 'years. The players' proposal would call for that money in four years. 
Garvey said acn·ptance ofthe uni­on proposal would double the average salary from last )·ear. Management ha.~ placed the average salary at S90.000 per player; the uni­on puts the tlgur,· at SH5,800 in 1981 . 

TICKETS NOW ON SALE AT: 

•A.C.C. 
BOX OFFICE •ROBERTSON'S (South Bend & Concord Mall) •FIRST SOUCE BANK •ST. JOSEPH BANK •SEARS (University Park Mall) •ELKHART TRUTA •SUSPENDED CHORD (Elkhart) 

•WORLD 
RECORDS (Goshen) •J.R.'S MUSIC SHOP (La Porte) 


Shoe & boot repair of any kind Die shoes & replace .zippers
Produced by BEAVER 
Quick service at reasonable price 8-5 Mon -sat 
SUBSCRIBE!!If you are one of the thousands of people who just can't get enol'gh of Notre Dame football, then The Observer is just what you're looking for. By having The Observer delivered daily to your home, you can know more about about the Fightin' Irish football team than you ever dreamed. Every day our large and talented reporting staffwill keep you informed ofthe latest news concerning Gerry Faust's much improved football ~earn. And when it comes time to start thinking about basketball, you can be sure that The Ob· server will provide you with all the information you'll need about Digger Phelps and his scrappy squad. For just S12 you will receive The Observer at your home for the entire season. Or you can take advantage of our special full-year discount and receive The Ob­server through the springfor only J22. That's a great savings for the most comprehensive coverage ofNotre Dame sports anywhere. You simply can't afford to turn this offer down. Just fill out the attached coupon. You'll be glad you did. 

The Observer
\1Jk,_· checb pa\ abit-to: 

f'.() Box()
and mail t<>: 

:'l<otn: Dame. 1:\ 16';';(1 DEn~losed is 522 for the full academic year. D Enclosed is S12 for the remainder ofthe semester. 
~ame. ..  
Address.....  
(it\'...  . . Slatt·. ... . . . .......... Zip..  
~  Renewal  0  N.D. Alumni  Year Graduated___  

~-----------~-----------------------------------­
_.1_ 
Ihe()merver~======================================= 
Saturday, September 18, 1982-page 17
Weekend 
Doonesbucy 
8/JfSJAf(llNG THIS FALL, 
MY Bt:.VfnY!IIUSW<I<OIIT 
51l1JJN WILL Bt seTTING UP f!TNe55 OUT-ff.ACH atNIC5 TO H&LP M/6!</Wr
;Y flii?M IAJ(J?J(Ef<S MtCT 


~ WHAf AM [ OOIN& IN MY OWN e>fii'IPA7 
WELL~ I'M ~NIOR AND' FRANKLY;I ~EW AJ06. 



MIGRANT FARM 
YE\ I MfAN C~~EER. 
.. IN MANfi&E NT: 
fiD'{Ef?TI~ING l11\f\~T­
IN6,oR.. EVEN ILLIJS1Rf\T­IN6. "'-._ 
Garry Trudeau 



The Daily Crossword 
All Rights Reserved 

9/18/82 
ACROSS 1 Bounders 5 Diagram 
10 Draped garment 
14 Dismounted 
15 Blind poet 
16 Preposition 
17 1944 battle site 18 Sceneof action 
19 Josip Broz 
20 Doyleduo 
23 Skating jump 24 Golf ball position 
25 Glacial gold deposit 28 Wines with a nutty flavor 

33 Lillian and 
Philip 34 Frightening 35 511 36' Andy's 
sidekick 37 Massenet 
opera 38 Dillon 39 Rather 40 Clotn weave 41 Western 
resort 

42 Kind of relation· ship 
44 Flynn and others 
Friday's Solution 

45 Sound of 21 Former 
pleasure mates 46 Overtook 22 Ethereal 47 Christie 25 Spanish 
sleuths museum 55 Lily plar.t 26 Miller's 56 Staggering "salesman" 57 Oneofa 27 Standing 
sleuthing together 
pair 28 Do, re, etc. 58-Sennett 29 Ave 59 Likewise 30 Potato 60 Troubles State 61 Singer Paul 31 Laud 62 Impertinent 32 Loci 63 Look for 34 Leg part 
37 They're 
DOWN better 1 Ready money than one 2 Choir voice 38 Bar orders 3 Kind of 40 Decorate 
pickle leather 4 Puts up 41 Small group with 43 Kansas city 5 Certain 44 Hire drink 46 American 6 Of sixty playwright 
minutes 47 Lady of 7 Last word the house 8 Tear 48 Author 9 Fishing Paton 
boats 49 Move back 10 California and forth 
pioneer 50 Opera song 11 Sacred bull 51 Seines 12 Paper 52 Part 
section, 53 Heraldic for short border 13 Privy to 54 Chore 
Campus 
•10 
am. -Molarity Autographs, Michael Molinelli, Author, in front of Alumni Hall, Sponsored by Buy the Book Press 

•10:30 
a.m. -Volleyball, NO Women vs. St. Mary's College, ACC 

•11 
a.m.-Field Hockey, NO Women vs. Calvin ·College, Alumni Field 

•I 
p.m. -All-Star Basketball, Logan Center Benefit, ACC 54.00 and S6.00 per person 

• 
5 p.m. -Mass, Regina Chapel 

•S:IS 
p.m.-Mass, Sacred Heart Church 

•6 
p.m. -Band Concert, Notre Dame Marching Band, Steps of Main Building, 

•8 
p.m. -Football Game, Notre Dame vs. Michi­gan, Football Stadium, ABC-TV 

• 
Midnight -Movie, "It's A Mad Mad Mad Mad World", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Film Club, Sl.OO 

Sunday, Sept. 19 

•9 
am. -Mass, Sacred Heart Church 

•IO 
a.m. -Mass, Church ofLoretto 

•10:30 
a.m. -Concelebrated Mass, "Solemn Opening of the School Year", Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh C.S.C., Sacred Heart Church 

•11:30 
a.m.-Mass, Regina-Chapel 

•I2:
IS p.m. -Mass, Sacred Heart Church 

•2 
p.m. -President's Reception, For new faculty, their spouses, and new rectors, Center for Continuing Education 

•4 
p.m. -Organizational Meeting for Emer­gency Medical Technician Course, Room 2I8 Rockne Memorial, Sponsored by NO Branch of American Red Cross 

•7 
p.m.-Mass, Holy Cross Chapel (SMC), 

•10 
p.m. -Junior Class Mass, Followed by Ice Cream Social, Stapleton Lounge, Sponsored by SMCJunior Class 


Brian 

The saga ofthe youngest domer 
BRIAN WA~ CAUGHT 
BREAKING-PARIETAL5. 

A&utud-SoiKU6 fki6 weeh0cdat Sescielt 'Batt~ IJ'Ie-gtuQ ~. F6wUcg flee gtlltle. cmtte koo1t ffce 9Wk ttWbie oh ffce 
TED HEALY BAND· 

·---~--------. ~---~--~ 
Saturday, September 18, 1982 -page 18 
~orts 
·Fischer rebounds from spring illness 
ByTED HAUSSLER The summer of1982 would be no Sports Writer different from years past. For Mark Fischer, it was time-to start all over The late winter of 1982 was not again. His coaches told him that they kind to Notre Dame starting center would like to see him return in the Mark Fischer. fall at 245. He was determined to 
After coming off his first season at come back, and. ·to come back center for the Irish, and reaching strong. peak physical strength from a winter Following a few workouts at weight training program, the 6-4, Notre Dame and also using his own 253-pound senior from Massillon, free weights in the spring, Fische.r Ohio, contracted mononucleosis trained religiously five days a week and pneumonia. Fischer's bout with at his alma mater, Central Catholic mono not only madt: him miss the High School. "I never once missed a entire spring football program, but weight workout during the sum­also caused his weight to drop by 40 mer," adds Mark. pounds, from 245 to 205. The starting center .arrived in 
Any other playerentering the final camp in mid-August at a solid 255 . stage of his college football career pounds, much to the delight of.his may have thrown in the towel, but coaches. for Mark Fischer, the battle might "Coach Oim) Higgins couldn't have: been lost, but not the war. bc:.lieve it," says Fischer. "Coach 
.. 
. " I wanud to come back after last (Gerry) Faust had a bet with Coach 
The Notrr Dame cross country t«~m INul a mc~
year's s-6 season.~· says Fischer. "I Higgins that I'd return at 2SO. Coach 
cessj11l season opener.yesterdt~y. The Jrisb heldu,·
couldn't end my coU"cgiate careeraf­Faust won." The ·most important ' . I 
ter that last game (Miami)." thing for Fischer was that ·.~ 
So, with the advice ofhis coaches surpassed all of his strength. gOals, towork out as much aspossible over and was ready to plar. football.· , Cr~country the summer, FiSc;hcr went home: to .· This Stea"Son Mark Fiscbtr· will be. 
Ohio at a very trim weight for an of­anchoring the middle ofan offensive 
. . . ·. . Irishbegili. seasonWith victory
fensive: lineman, 212 pounds. line: which should be mueh im­However, the task ofadding bulk to proved from last year. For the resi. his frame was not a strange one to dent ofDillon Hall there is no better By NAT RICH crossed the line together with a time on the: race: run by the three: leaders; Fischer. asset than experience. When asked Sports Writer of 24:56 for the five-mile· course. ·"Whenever one ofus would run into 
In the spring of 1981, Fischer, a how the Irish line will fare against Irish runners Ralph Caron and Tim trouble, the other two wouldn't let former tight end, was tabbed as the the Michigan defense, Fischer The Notre Dame cross country Bartrarid followed with t·imes of him fall back. I started to slow a man to fill the vacant center position responds, "The experience obtained team opened its season with a 25:21 and 25:26. By claiming the top couple of times but tt:!ey kept me formerly held by All-American John last year will make us much bette.r resounding victory over the five positions, the Irish held their going." Piane praised the Scully. Apprehensive at first about able to dc:al with any defensive varia­Buckeyes ofOhio State yesterday af­score to the minimum possible 15 three,"They ran very well together, moving to center because ofhis size, tion Michigan throws up against us." ternoon. Led by the winning trio of points. much like I expected." Fischer quickly dispelled any doubts So, when the Irish offensive unit Tim Cannon, Andy Dillon, and Marc Notre Dame ended up with eight Piane also praised the rest of the he harbored when he added 20 gets its first crack at moving the ball Wozniak, the Irish shut out the of the top ten finishers. Ohio State's team, "I'm happy with the way pounds over the summer of'81, and tonight, look for Gerry Faust to send Buckeyes 15-50 despite a steady rain leading runner finished eighth with things worked out. If the course returned in the fall as an effective out an aggressive offensive line -that seemed to signal the race's a time of 25:42, a full 46 seconds be· were ten yards longer we would blocker possessing both good tech­with senior center Mark Fischer beginning. hind the leaders. Coach joe Piane have had the top seven positions, nique and good size. leading the way. Cannon, Dillon, and Wozniak all was surprised at the Irish and I can't complain about that. He 
dominance. " I thought we would continued,''I was really pleased with win but I didn't expect to do it that Bill Courtney and Tim Bartrand,
Strikepossible 

easily," he said. "They had a couple they ran very well." of runners who I thought would do "Our times are going to have to better than that." improve a bit to come out on top.,
NFL oUJners reject latestproposal 
Irish runners had command ofthe next week," warned Piane, in race early on. After one mile, the reference to the National Catholic NEW YORK (AP)-The National percentage of the gross. And union negotiator. "They have to get off winning trio had already broken out Invitational to be held next week at Football League Players Association chief Ed Garvey described it as "a their percentage scales and wage to a sizable lead, and after two miles, Notre Dame, "but this was a gooddropped its demand for a percent­last-ditch attempt to avert a strike." scales. They have to move into the Notre Dame already had eight ofthe way to start things off." You can't age of team gross revenues yester­Garvey insisted, however, that the more conventional forms ofbargain­nine leaders. With a mile to go, it was beat a shutout, and the Irish hopeday and asked instead for half the players had not backed off from their ing. 
obvious that victory was in hand. that this one will be indicative oftheleague's billion-dollar TV package. intention to strike next Tuesday un­"Obviously, they didn't come Co-captain Wozniak commented rest ofthe season.
The owners quickly rejected the less significant progress was made in here for any meaningful bargaining." proposal as a strike deadline loomed the talks. And the owners soon said four days away. the union's movement was on the However, the two sides resumed 
It was the first time in seven wrong course and not enough. negotiations last night. 
Michigan linebacker 
months of negotiations that the uni· "W6 rejected their proposal," said The union had been asking for 55 on had moved from its demand for a jack Donlan, the club owners' chief percent of the gross income of the league's 28 teams, estimated by the 
thinks before he acts 
union at $3.5 billion over the next 

five years. The TV money amounts By RON POLLACK tion All Big Ten campaign under his to 60 percent of that figure, 112.1 bil­belt, Boren is looking to maintain
Associate Sports Editor 
lion. The Michigan Daily the quantity of plays he is involved The union's four-year proposal in and improve the quality. 
places a cap on salary costs each ANN ARBOR, Mich. -On any "I want to get more big plays," he year. It also calls for creation of a Friday night before"a football Satur­says. "Last year lied the team in tack­compensation fund, to be controlfed Michigan Mike ling, but I wanted to get more big
day, linebacker by management, that would be 
Boren can be found peacefully lost plays." Boren intercepted one pass funded half from network TV and one fumble last
in thought. He may look completely recovered revenues and the remainder each season.
at ease, but in reality he is playing a year by the clubs. 
violent, hard-hitting game. He is The big play so cherished and In addition, 50 percent of any in­playing out the next day's game in sought after by Boren came i:o pass creases in the league TV revenues his mind. last weekend during Michigan's 
over and above the current network On one play, he'll make a bone­hard-fought 20-9 victory over a stub­'contracts also would be paid to the 
crunching tackle that will jar the ball born Wisconsin squad. With Michi­central fund. · 
loose from some hapless tailback gan up "7. 3, Badger quarterback The union's initial proposal for 55 Randy Wright nudged his way onto
who has dared tresspass his area of percent <..' the league's gross responsiility. On another play, the end zone from one yard out. But revenue over a five-year period 
Boren will-leap into. the air, snare an be it Friday night in his mind or would have cost the owners S1.925 errant enemy pass, and ramble Saturday afternoon on the playing 
billion, according to union t1gures. 

towards the end zone for six points field, Boren could not have played The new demand is for S1.6 bil­the attempt that
and certain glory. conversion lion over the next four years. followed any better.
"You have to play the game in "We have taken a significant step 
your mind the night before," says The Badger center snapped the by moving from percentage ofgross
for security J"U'POSCS, Boren. "If you can't visualize a play ball, and Boren blasted through the 
Mu~o Li~tiQ;g co,, ~Jm:h. J.$•.·••• to percentage of television in your mind, you can't make it." line as though he'd been shot out ofa 
supplying tile stadium Ughm, ..· revenue," Garvey said. "We do this Boren must have visualized hb cannon. Athud could be heard as the · 
to remove a major stumbling block

willpro~.l~b-!lofUgbts.­making a lot of tackles last year, be­ball was kicked. A second t~ud ~u~ivdy for illuminating in the negotiations." cause he W:lli a constant hindrance quickly followeu as Boren halted the 

Garvey said the players were 

to opposing team's oft'enses. The 6-3, flight ofthe kick. 
basing their proposal on a statement 

221-1-pound juniot from Columbu..~. As usual, Boren was in on a lot of
·=a=Q16~··=~4•..!

~lke pacrols ~e been J by jack Donlan, the chief negotiator Ohio, led all Wolverine defenders tackles ( 1·1) last week. hut it was th(: 
added forsatety m~. ·.....·· 

See NFL, page 16 last sea.~on in tackle~ with 152. 
See HOREN, page 14 
:·.·:::.. ~ ·.:.. With last year's honorable men· 


The Irish Extra -Michigan Saturday, September 18, 1982 -page 19 
• • • QB's 
continuedfrom page 1 
Big-Ten Champs Iowa, Smith was 6-for-20, and threw a key interception deep in Hawkeye territory. Michigan lost 9-...,. 
Kiel had difficulties as well, while alternating at quar­terback with Koegel. Of his first 21 passes, Kiel com­pleted only 7, and five were intercepted. The Irish .. started off 2-3. 
The second part of the season was better for both men. After Iowa, Smith went on a four-game tear, averaging Jl.q yards per pass attempt. He racked up 3~0 yards of total oftcnse and six touchdowns against Illinois. and earned the AP's "Midwestern Offensive Player ofthe Week" award. 
Kiel improved his statistics as well. averaging 16 yards per completion, and throwing six scoring strikes. "So what" became an all-too-frequently-heard ex­pression among fans ofboth teams, however. 
First of all, the opposition was not the most for­midable for either team. Secondly, more credit was given to the ·rwo sm~all but explosive split ends, Joe Howard and Carter. for having made their quarterbacks 
seem better. The final chapter for both quarterbacks featured season-ending, nationally-televised embarassments. 
The dues have been paid. 
The challenges, however, will always remain. 
Smith was 9-ti.Jr-26 and had three passes picked off in a I+9 home Joss to hitter rival Ohio State. Six days la1 cr Kiel was suffering through a 10-toi-25, two interception performance in a 3 7-1 S loss to Miami (Fla.) 
The disappointments of 1981 remain with them. The criticisms come back to haunt them. 
Through it all. Kiel has been able to hang on to his dignity, politeness, and sanity. 
"I can't be concerned with what people say or write about me anymore." he admits. "Everything that can possibly be said about me -the good and the bad ­has been said. I have reached the point now where I believe that if I can't get the job done, I want the coaches to get me out ofthere and put somebody else in there -for good -who can. 
"Right now, though, I'm not in the least bit worrie~ about my position. I'm just going to' go out on the field and do the absolute best that I can. I don't consider myselfa conceited person, but after all the experiences I've been through in my two years here I feel that I have grown mentally stronger. I'm verv confident and relaxed right now. It's high tlme now to go out on that field and play the kind of foot­ball! know we are capable of" 
Smith. too, has gained confidence and relaxation as a result of the trials. 
"I don't like to be embarrassed," he says. "I will improve. I've got to improve. I was a little nervous last year. I know what to expect now. I feel confident; the butterflies are gone." 
"He's come along'as we expected," says his coach, Bo Schembechler. "It was a mental thing to take over the leadership role with 100,000 people watching you. It's tough. If it were easy, why would you see guys take three or four years to learn to play pro ba!P The defenses are so much more complex these days. What you ask a college quarterback to do today is like night and day compared to what you asked him to do five years ago." 
Their dues have been paid. Now, tor the first time in their collegiate careers, they have some peace of mind about themselves and their roles. The challenges, however, will al­ways remain. 
"This is the biggest game ofmy career with­out a doubt," admits Kiel. "But there will be a lot of important games for us this vear. Pressure is just something that you ha\:e to deal with all your life." 
In a game that torever will be remembered 
as the one when the lights shined brightly in 
Notre Dame Stadium, two quarterbacks who 
have been in the dark are hoping to shine even 
more. 

Craig Dunaway 
....,II::I::.U.-M"" 
IRISH EXTRA 

DESIGNED AND EDITED BY 
Skip Desjardin 
continuedfrom page 1 

Wide receiver Anthony Carter is the Wolverines' star, but he·~ 
certainly not the whole show. Quarterback Steve Smith is what Faust 
calls "a double threat -he runs a quick option and he's developed 
into a top passer." Lawrence Ricks is another m the long line of 
quality Michigan tailbacks -he's coming off a 155-yard perfor­
mance against Wisconsin. On defense, the Wolves return their top 
two tacklers in linebackers Mike Boren and Paul Girga,h. 
"Maybe Michigan did lose some names from last year," Faust says. 
"but they always have people who get the job done, that's the bot­
tom line. 

"We have I H starters back, but that's not real signilkant when it 
comes from a S-6 team." he joked."Michigan's got all the advantages 
on us -they've played a game, tested new things and gained 
momentum from a win. We just have to go out and execute better 
than they do tomorrow." 

.\1uch ofthe expected improvement in the Irish should come from 
a slightly revamped oftense -one which empha~izes the short pas­
sing game and eliminates the wingback position. That will alford 
quarterback Blair Kiel and Co. a better chance to mon· the foothall. 
"The most encouraging thing about our offense this fall has heen the plav of Blair Kiel at quarterback," confirms Faust. ''He knows Jl(.•'s the man and he believes we all have confidence m hts anility to be our starter." 
Having Tom· Hunter set at tight end tigurcs to he another plus for the !\imre Dame air attack "We think he can really t he a consistent threat at that position," says Faust. "And wt•'ll abo involve our runnig hacb a httle more in the short pa!>smg game -our philosoph~ will he based on the htgh-percentagc completion." 
Kid has plenty of targets to aim at -the decision on who the wide-outs will be wa-; still in the evaluation stage this week, though it's a sure het sophoml)rc Joe Iloward will be one. Freshmen Milt Jackson and Van Pearcy arc the top names for the open slot, but .\like Haywood and Chris Stone arc: still contending. 
!-.enior tri-captain Phil Carter and junior Greg Bell still are just about even at tailback -with freshman speedster Allen Pinkett on 
• • • Irish 
their heeb. "I wouldn't hesitate to put Pinkett in," Faust says. "He's 
really shown us a lot this fall, and he's made Phil and Greg both better 
tailbacks." 
Senior Larry Moriarty will get the nod at fullback, but expect 
senior John Sweeney and sophomore Mark Brooks to see duty, too. 
Sweeney may play some tight end in short-yardage or goal-line situa­
tions also. 
Whoever carries or catches the ball Saturday will do so behind 
what Faust expects to be a faster and stronger line."Anytime you put 
a coupk ofsolid teams like Michigan and Notre Dame out tere, what 
happens in the trenches makes a big difterence. Michigan just 
dominated the line ofscrimmage all day long last year in Ann Arbor, 
and they never let us establish anthing. 
"We've got to become more dominant up from or we'll have problems moving the liJotball. that's all there is to it. We didn't con­trol the line often enough last year. and that's been a major locus point lor us ever since the sea~on ended·· 
The olknsive line will list Mike Kellq and Larry Williams at the tackle positions, regulars Tom Thayer and Randy Ellis at the two guard spots and Mark Fischer at center 
Detcmively. the Irish are solid up front with returnees Kevin Grif­tith, Jon Autry, Bob Clash\' and sophiJmore j\.iike Gann on the line. Tri-captain Mark Zavagnin joins Mike Larkin and Rick !\iaylor in the linebacking corp, ami Dave Duerson. joeJohnson. Chris Brown and Stacey Toran will start in the secondan. 
Faust has split kicking chores betwn·n senior walk-on ,\1ike .Johnston and freshman Hal \'on Wyl. ":\likl· will handle kick-off~. extra points and lleld goab inside the 2"; yard line," he explain:., "and Hal will probably kick any tlcld goab longer than that. .. 
The lri~h are in good shape phy~ically -ofti:nsive tackle .\like Shiner and split end Mike: Favorite are the only regulars who won't dress -and mentally a:, well. faust says the team won't use the revenge factor to motivate itselffor Michigan. 
"We'd really be riding an emotional roller coa~tcr alii :,cason if we looked at opponents that way. Last year was last year-it's over. \Ve just want to attack each game one at a time and play the best football 
we can." 
J 


The Irish Extra -Michigan Saturday, September 18, 1982 -page 20 
Notre Dame vs. Michigan 

I 
I 
t 
The Sports Staff's Predictions 

Each week, The Observer 
sports staff predict the outcome of the week·s major college foot­ball games. Records are compiled as to how each writer does against the spread. In other words, 1! IS not enough to PICk the winner of a g1ven game. The writer must p1ck a wmner and give the underdog points. 

WILL HARE 

CHRIS NEEDLES RICH O'CONNOR Sports Editor Sports Writer Sports Writer 
Ohio State over MICHIGAN STATE by 5 Spartans Buckeyes Spartans Buckeyes Buckeyes 
Illinois over SYRACUSE by 7 lllini llllni llllni lllmi Orangemen 
PURDUE even Minnesota Gophers Boilers Gophers Boilers Gophers 
SOUTHERN CAL over Indiana by 20 Trojans Hoos1ers TroJans Trojans Hoos1ers 
PENN STATE over Rutgers by 25 Lions L1ons L1ons Kn1ghts Knights 
Miami over VIRGINIA TECH by 7 Hurricanes Hurncanes Hurncanes Hok1es Hurncanes 
Pitt aver FLORIDA STATE by 7 Panthers Semmoles Semmoles Panthers Semmoles 
ARKANSAS over Navy by 17 Hogs Hogs Middies M1dd1es Middies 
TEXAS TECH over Air Force by 7 Raiders Falcons Raiders Falcons Ra1ders 
Washington over ARIZONA by 9 Huskies Huskies Huskies Wildcats Husk t 1es 
UCLA over WISCONSIN by 7 Bruins Bruins Badgers Brums Brwns 
HOUSTON even Arizona State Cougars Dev1ls Devils Cougars Cougars 
Michigan over NOTRE DAME by 1 Irish Wolverines Irish Wolverines lnsh 









