----------------------------------~------------------~--------­
• • • Christmastown -page 7 


SALT LAKE CITY (AP) -A polyurethane pump began softly clicking yesterday in the chest of a tough-willed retired dentist who became the first human to receive a permanent artificial heart. 
Barney B. Clark, 61, opened his eyes hours after part of his diseased heart was removed and the plastic heart was implanted, but later he was kept heavily sedated and uncon­scious to prevent any movement that might open his stitches. 
"Mechanically, it's entirely a success now," said Dr. Chase Peter­son, vice president for health sciences at the University of Utah Medical Center. "This thing is doing what it is supposed to." 
Clark's new heart runs on puffs of air, and he faces a lifetime tethered by hoses to air compressors. He was moved into an intensive care room yesterday after the seven-hour operation and was on a respirator. 
Clark, of federal Way, Wash., was rushed to the operating room late Wednesday, about 10 hours before a team ofsurgeons led by Dr. William DeVries originally had planned the implant of the school's fist-sized Jarvik-7 heart. 
Doctors said Clark's condition had begun to deteriorate rapidly, forcing surgeons to accelerate the schedule. 
DeVries, the 38-year-old head of cardio-thoracic surgery and the only physician authorized by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to implant the device, maqe his first in-
Reagan denounces trade barriers 
SAO PAULO, Brazil (AP) -Presi­dent Reagan yesterday called economic growth "a crucial pillar of peac<:'' and denounced the spread of international trade restrictions as "an ugly specter stalking the world" destroying jobs. 
"The aim of these .lCtions may be to protect jobs, but the practical result, as we know from historical experience, is the destruction of jobs," Reagan told U.S. and Brazilian business leaders. 
Reagan, on the third day of a five­day Latin American tour, continued to criticize what he described as a "counterfeit revolution" afoot in the world bent on territorial conquest. Although he did not name the Soviet Union or Cuba, aides said he was referring to them as the exporters and supporters of leftist guerrilla movements in Central America. 
Reagan flew to Sao Paulo, the lar­gest and most industrialized city in Latin America, to deliver his speech and was returning to the capital city of Brasilia to spend the night. He goes on to Bogota, Colombia, today. 
Before making the 520-mile jour­ney here, Reagan held a final round of discussions with Brazilian Presi­dent Joao Baptista Figueiredo and stopped briefly at the U.S. Embassy to praise the mission staff and appeal for help in "strengthening our rela­tions with Brazil." 
Despite Reagan's free-trade rhetoric, the United States has been erecting trade barriers of its own, including imposition ofsugar quotas which have angered Brazil and limits on steel imports from Europe and talks with the Brazilian chief ex­auto imports from Japan. There is ecutive. Both leaders are upset by growing congressional pressure for trade practices ofthe other, and they further protectionist measures. agreed Wednesday to establish joint 
The protectionism issue has been working groups to try to iron out a major theme ofReagan's extensive their differences. 
cision at 11:27 p.m. 
The lower chambers of Clark's heart were cut from his body, the machine was implanted and Clark was transferred from a heart-lung machine to the artificial pump at 
4:09 a.m. DeVries closed the inci­sion at 6:35a.m., said medical center spokesman Mark Sands. The heart's soft clicking is audible~ through Clark's chest. 
The mechanical heart replaces the left and right ventricles, or lower chambers of the heart. It is stitched to the natural heart's upper cham­bers, or atria, and to the aorta and pulmonary artery. Two air-driven diaphragms mimic the beating ac­tion ofthe ventricles. 
The device's inventor, Dr. Robert Jarvik, watched the implant as a member of the operating room team. Later, still wearing his blue surgical suit and cap, he said he was pleased with the outcome. 
"I'm just very happy the patient is doing well now,"Jarvik sa:d. "I don't think it could have gone !TJJlCh bet­ter and I certainly Lad fears it would go worse." 
Later, after a news conference ill the hospital cafeteria, Jarvik smiled and blushed when scattered ap­plause broke out among 50 repor­ters and cameramen. 
"I don't think he really felt it would succeed," he said. "His inter­est in going ahead -he told this to me -was to make this contribution, whereas the only other way was to die of the disease." 
0 'Meara discusses 
PACE report ideas 
By CATHY PAX 
StaffReporter 
The center ofgravity for social life at Notre Dame should be moved from the dorm to an appealing social center. This among other recom­mendations was presented by Professor Timothy O'Meara, Provost, in speaking about the com­pleted PACE (Priorities and Com­mitments for Excellence) report in the Grace pit last night. 
This change would provide for more men-w men interaction that many feel is net:ded at Notre Dame. O'Meara disagreeu with the South Bend Tribune'sassertion that the report was "against the student un­ion." He outlined several different suggestions for a new student center but emphasized that the committee was not able to agree on one recom­mendation. 
The vicinity of Lafortune where 
First CLC meeting 
Sectionpartyproposaldefeated 
ByDAVIDF. TRACY 
News Staff 
The Campus Life Council, in its first meeting of the year, narrowly defeated a proposal last night that would have allowed parties within sections of dormitories as well as in party rooms, where they are cur­rently held. 
The proposal was defeated when eight faculty members, rectors, and administrators voted against it. Seven students voted in favor of the proposal. 
Assistant Vice-President of Stu­
dent Affairs, Father Gregory Green, 
sitting in for Father John Van 
Wolvlear, voiced his fear of the ero­
sion of guidelines. According to 
Green, the arguments for the section 
party proposal were the same used 
to obtain the party rooms a few years 
ago. 
The party rooms were supposed 
See CLC, page 3 

Members ofthe Campus Life Council discuss Student Body Vice President Bob Yonchak's section party proposal. The council defeated the measure by a narrow 8-7 margin. (Photo by Scott Bower) 
the old field house is being torn down was recommended as the best location for consideration. Some proposed ideas as part ofa new cen­ter are a theatre, an attractive place "just to get a hotdog," or possibly a few shops. O'Meara said, "I think that whatever we build should bave some aesthetic appeal both inside and outside." When someone shouted "Different architects!" from the audience, O'Meara first denied this but then said, "You understand euphemisms, don't you?" 
O'Meara expressed an interest in including bowling alleys, crediting the failure those in the past to poor location and environment rather than the concept itself 
He also asked the audience if a 
fancy restaurant in the area ofWash­
ington Hall would be used by stu­
dents. This received a negative 
reaction by the majority of the stu­
dents present. 
When questioned about allowing independent businesses on campus, as part of the center, O'Meara hesitated and replied, "I don't know about that." 
O'Meara also questioned the audience about the lack ofsuccess at the senior bar on nights when al­cohol is not served. He asked if it would be used more if the building were more centrally located on campus. The audience reaction was mixed. 
O'Meara also spoke of the sugges­tion that more satellite centers such as the Oak Room and Senior Bar be developed instead of a single new student center. 
He then said, "Ofcourse, we don't have enough money for all thest: things." He added humorously that the students present could expect "another drive for Notre Dame," when they became alumni. 
The strongest recommendation of the report, according to O'Meara is the section on student financial aid. "I think this is more important than the student center myself," he said. 
O'Meara attributed the financial aid crunch to Reaganomics and the overall economic situation in the country. He stated that Notre Dame is not in danger oflosing enrollment, 
See OMEARA, page 4 


ews Brie/§ 
By The Obsen,er and The Associated Press 
The Sophomore Class Mass will be celebrated 
Sunday at 2:30 at Sacred Heart Church. Celebrants for the Mass will be Father Jack Egan and Father Steve Bevans. A general reconcilia­tion service for the advent season will be held during Mass. -The Observer 
The Notre Datne-Saint Mary's Coalition for 
Nuclear Freeze will have petitions available to students throughout the day today in La Fortune and tonight in the dining halls. The peti­tions are being circulated in order to get a referendum on the stu­dent elections ballot this spring which calls for a unilateral nuclear freeze. -The Observer 
Senate Republicansousted White House critic Bob Packwood as chairman of their senatorial campaign committee yes­terday and elected Richard G. Lugar, who is a strong supporter of President Reagan but said he would tell Reagan "things he needs to hear." Lugar beat Oregon's Packwood, a political moderate, 29 to 25 in a secret ballot election which will give the Indiana senator control ofa fund-raising and political organization charged with keeping the Senate in Republican hands in 1984. After the vote, the contenders appeared together in a display of party unity and inisisted Pack­wood's harsh criticism of Reagan had little to do with the outcome. Despite the show of unity, Packwood repeated his belief that the Republican party under Reagan needs to broaden its appeal ifit is to get more than a smattering of votes in future elections from blacks, Jews and women. -AP 
A storm in the Westthat has lett 18 people dead or missing buried Wyoming communities in 2 feet of snow yesterday, while tornadoes splintered homes in the Midwest and December turned to spring in many Northern cities. The 40,000 residents of Casper, Wyo., awoke to find 22.5 inches ofsnow on the ground, just 4 inches short ofthe record for the month ofDecember in that city. Highways were closed and schools shut down in many areas across the state. Tornadoes hit southern Missouri, destroying or damaging 25 to 30 homes in Mountain Grove and at least two homes in rural Crawford County. At least 10 people were injured. A tornado destroyed one home and damaged three others in Alma, Ark., near Fort Smith, as a storm roared through yesterday, downing power lines and washing out at least three bridges. The storm that roared out of the Pacific across California on Tuesday, dumping snow neck deep in the mountains, also spread heavy snow yesterday across the northern high plains into eastern Montana and western South Dakota. -AP 
Defense and prosecution attorneys were ex­
pected to make their opening arguments to the jury today in the trial ofthe man charged with murdering LaPorte Mayor Aloysius). Rume­ly Jr. and his wife. Lang is t charged with a May 31st break-in at the Rumely's home and fatally shooting the couple. Frances Rumely, 68, died from blood loss immediately after being shot twice. Rumely, 71, died Thanksgiving Day in a South Bend hospital of complications from his three gunshot wounds. Lang has pleaded innocent by reason of insanity to two counts of murder and one count of burglary. The prosecution is seeking the death penalty. Today will be the jurors' first day in the courtroom since they were sworn in and dismissed Wednesday byJudgeR. Alexis Clarke of Marshall Su­perior Court. The judge spent most of yesterday reviewing more than five hours ofvideo and audio tape that were made during Lang's questioning by LaPorte police prior to his arrest in June. -AP 
The University of Virginia has abolished the 
school's Easter celebration, a liquor-drenched springtime student party that has been a tradition since the laM century. The mid-April party has drawn crowds of 12,000 to 20,000. "I have concluded that the Easter celebration ...no longer merits official university sanc­tion," Ernest Ern, the university's vice president for student affair~, said in a letter Wednesday. Dean of Students Robert Canevari said the partying has caused a public relations problem with city resi­dents, created an anti-intellectual atmosphere and encouraged ex­cessive drinking. -AP 
Robert Cato has been ordered to stand trial on charges stemming from a crash that injured actresses Mary Martin and Janet Gaynor and killed Miss Martin's manager. Municipal Court Judge Perker Meeks on Wednesday ordered Cato, a 36-year-old San Fran­cisco resident, to be tried on charges of vehicular man slaughter, reckless driving and felony drunken driving. Ben Washer was killed in the Sept. 5 crash. Washer, the actresses and Miss Gaynor's hus­band, Paul Gregory, were in a taxi that was hit by a van driven by Cato. Gregory also was injured. A trial date will be set Dec. 14. Cato is free on SlOO,OOO bail. -AP. 
A 60 percentchanceofthundershowers today with record warmth and a high in upper 60s. An 80 percent chance of showers tonight and tomorrow but not as warm. Low tonight in low to mid 50s. High tomorrow in the mid to upper 50s. -AP 
Friday, December 3, 1982 -page 2 
Who w-ants more com.mlercials? 
Most people hate television commercials. WhenJR is about to be shot and Dallas is interrupted by an elderly lady complaining about denture stains, one gets a little irritated. 
But we learn to tolerate TV commercials in exchange for free programming. After all, advertising pays for our TV pleasure. Still. television broadcasters feel a respon­sibility to maintain a balance of programming and advertiSing and to regulate the content ofcommercials in order to serve the public. 
As well they should. Thus, it is appalling that the broadcasting industry and the Justice Department agreed, on Nov. 23, to eliminate restraints on the dura­tion of television commercial!>. 
The decree, signed by Federal District Judge Harold 
H. Greene, also raised the possibility that eventually all restrictions on television advertising will be dropped, including those governing content. 
What could this mean for you and me, the television viewers? More commercials. And possibly, more of­fensive commercials. 
Previously, the National Associaton of Broadcasters (NAB), which includes the three major networks and their affiliates, controlled the restriction of advertising within the industry. This 
new decision settled an an­knows what else -maybe titrust suit that the Justice even ads for abortion clinics Department brought against and porno movies and the NAB, charging that their home-grown drugs. restriction is illegal. Broadcasting officials 
The time restriction on have said that the decree TV commercials was eight would have no immediate and a half minutes per hour effect on network advertis­of programming. This limit ing. Yet they have spec­has been eliminated. Also, ulated that small stations the NAB has suspended the might drop their restrictions codes not mentioned in the and show commercials that government's decree, such were previously prevented. as those involving content. I, for one, do not want my 
In the absence of restric­television programs inter­tions, individual stations are rupted more frequently, free to venture into taboo with commercials that are to areas, such as liquor, con­societ t y's disadvantage. Not traceptives, and cigarettes, only am I concerned with 
beside having the ability to extend commercial time as far as their hearts desire. The changes make no sense, and they raise serious questions. 
First, the broadcast industry's agreement to the new action does not make sense. The NAB was a party to the agreement, yet it issued a strong statement against it, according to The New York Times. 
Edward Fritts, president of the NAB, said, "This is a sad day for the American public," in a statement against the action. 
The Broadcast Industry extended the government's decree by suspending restrictions on content. Once the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), in behalf of the government, restricted ads on cigarettes. Now this could all go up in smoke. 
Furthermore the FCC, which was set up to regulate TV broadcasting in order to serve the public, is slacking off. In recent years the FCC has paid little attention to program content, and the chairman of the commission, Mark Fowler, has said he wants to deregula·e television entirely so that broadcasters will be free to operate with 
The Observer 
"HOOPS" Design Editor .................. Coaching Rahbit Design Assistants ............. Guards Small & Oanieb Layout Staff........ . ...................... Benched Typesetters .... ........... Forward Maclennan Daniels News Etlitor ........ Injured reserve Wilkins Copy Etlitor ......................... Center Murray Features Layout....... ..... Smokin'Joe Etlitortals Layout.. ........ RefCerabona Sports Copy Editor ......... Swish O'Connor & Rookie Sullivan ND Day Etlitor ................. Petters rebound SMC Day Etlitor ......................... }ump Tuite Typists ......................................... Statisticians Atl Deslg" ............................... Benched Bob Photographer........ . .... Scoring Scotty Guest Appearances .. Scouting Skip, Drib­bling [)zave, Assorted owners, Coach­emeritus Pudge, a weary team, the crowd, drenched Darby 
"We'll keep ot~flgbtin' til the etltl . .." 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Fr~day and on home football Saturdays except dunng exam and vacallan penods The Observer 1s published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary s Col· lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($ t 5 per sernester) by wr1t1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproducllan nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame lna1ana 46556 
Live for God and His People as a ••• 
·~··,
.... Capuchin 
a"· what? 
Capuchin Franciscans are a reigious fraternity of men trying to tive the Gospel in I'\• the Spirit of Francis of Assisi in today's 
.. world. . . 
Join us lin promoting peace, education, and justice--in ghettoes... in jails... in ~.,...-ro., soup kitchens ..• in parishes ... in hallway 
houses... on radio and lV. 
Join us in working with and for the advancemE~nt of blacks, whites, Hi!l:""r•ir-!1: native Americans and people of the Third World in Central America. 
Check Clllt whether being a Capuchin,. comrnir.ted to living for GOd imd his people, in the spirit of Francis, is for you. No obligation.· Write today for more inforrnapon. 
·•···--················ Clip •ftd Mltll TodeJI ·----··----,-------· ' Father John Holly, OFM C..,uchln, 1820 Mt. EHiC'tt Avenue, · .. . DetrOit, Mit 48207 · Yea, een4 me-information about ttl$ C.Uchln way of life. 
Name' Age ---­
College -------Address 
City '--._ ___;,___ State 
------~P-----­

no limits on the amount or type ofadvertising. 
Why would theJustice Department, which should be concerned about the public welfare, make a rule that keeps broadcasters fFom voluntarily attempting to limit the amount ofadvertising? The answer is beyond me. It seems the government doesn't like broadcasters t governing themselves, so they take away these rights. They can't see that this is only hurting'the public. The broadcasters probably couldn't care less iftheir restric­tions are taken away. More ads -more money for the broadcasters. Mor~ ads -more aggravation for the public. 
Perhaps even more~ problematic is the suspension of restrictions on content. If a station is hard-pressed for revenues, it may jusl: start using cigarette and liquor 
commercials and who 
this generation, but with the coming generation ofchildren. 
Television is recognized as the leading media in­fluence nationwide. ln many homes it takes the place of parents. Parents should mediate what their children watch on TV, but sometimes they don't. Who will stop children from being bombarded with commercials that are "bad for them?" 
Recent figures show that television use in the average American household is seven hours a day. The average viewer probably watches about 112 commercials a day. With the new government decree, that figure could in­crease to I SO commercials a day ...or 200 ... 
Soon it may seem we are watching only commercials. We need advertising to keep television going in a free system of broadcasting. We also need restrictions. or the public will no longer be served. The public may just stop watching. Atelevision boycott may not be unheard of ... 

The Observer Friday, December 3, 1982 -page 3 

winter. According to Burke, the plan was moditied to include a study of the cost of such improvements only for the Stepan courts, as University officials decided that lights on the Lyons courts would "prove detrimental" to the residents of 
nearby dorms. 
After weeks ofdebate and gather­ing of information concerning con­struction costs, Father Van Wolvlear on Tuesday presented Burke with a plan costing $13,000, which would only provide for the installation of lights for those courts on the north end of the Stepan facility. 
"No decision has been made be­cause ofthe high cost oflighting just half of the courts," Burke said. He added that he was "looking into uses other than basketball" for the courts during the winter in order to justify A group ofNorth Quad residents took advantage of the rainy the year-round operation of the weather to get in what may be the last game ofthe mudfootball lights if they were to be installed. season. Here, one ofthe players does some ofthe dirt)• workjbr his 
Burke is trying to persuade the team. (Photo by Scott Bower) 
University's Non-Varsity Athletics· Office ro take responsibility for the operation of a hockey rink during the winter on the lighted end of the 

Stepan courts 
Lights delayed by high costs 
ByJOE INCARDONA 
News Staff 
Because ofthe cost ofthe project, Administration officials have not made a decision on a Student Government pmposal to install per­manem lighting on the Stepan bas­ketball courts, according to Studem Body Presidem Lloyd Burke. 
Burke made the pmposal over a 
month ago at a meeting of the Stu­dent Senate, after which it was sub­mitted to Father john Van Wolvlear, Vice-President for Student Affairs, for appmval. 
The pmposal initially called for the installation of lights on the bas­ketball courts behind Stepan Center and Lyons Hall, and for the conver­sion of the courts to allow for out­door skating and hockey in the 
Lil' Sibs weekend plans developing 
ByJAVI MULERO allowed this year, so we have a small News Staff budget," says Fleck. "The cost (to the University) has not yet been 
Student Government is organiz­figured." ing Lil' Sibs Weekend to be held next 
The largest task in planning the semester for the first time. April 15­
event is transporting the par­
17. 
ticipants to the Cniversity. fleck High school hmthers and sisters 
adds that ~orne of the returned sur­of Notre Dame students will visit 
veys mentioned that transportation campus for the weekend and par­
will not be a problem. ticipate in various activities and 
. ''I'm part of the Student Govern­games along with their domer ment. (and) they've been reallyrelatives. 
helpful. I can count on their support.
Susan E. Fleck, who was elected The size will be limited because of 
chairman under the Executive Com­geographic limitations. But it's a 
mittee of the Student Government 
new thing, you need a lot of help,
because of her idea to plan such a and I hope it becomes a tradition ­
weekend, is optimistic about the ac­
something like junior Parents tivity. 
Weekend." 
"Lil' Sibs', as we call it, is a Stepan . courts, in order to convince the Administration to go through with the lighting project. 
"Ifthe NVA could get someone to maintain a hockey rink out there, that would justify the S13,000 ex­pense for the lights," said Burke. He indicated, however, that the project "is still on hold until the NVA people say something." 
program already run at other 
M:hools," she stated. "I thought it would be a great idea to unite the 
rt) Club Bus bmthers and sisters of students in experiencing a weekend at Notre 
to East Brunswick. H) and
Dame." Surveys concerning these plans 
Port Authority. HYC
were sent to every undergraduate student in eady October thmugh the Halls' Presidents. The purpose of 
Sign-ups: Sund41yDec. s. 7pm 
the survey was to guage student in­
2nd rioor La Fortune 
terest in the event to determine the support students would give it. Stu­dents also were asked for sugges­
Roundtrip Fare S7 5 .oo 
tions, and whether their brothers or sisters would need transportation. Of6000 surveys sent, 1066 students 
responded, expressing interest, : .M.!m9..tY...l..b.q.~.g,~~Jn.9.~.. • 
saying they have brothers or sisters that might want to participate in the •• 1723 South Bend Ave. -at the Butler's Pantry •+ activities. Activities may include a + (walking distance from campus) •. dance, a movie festival,. food 
•+ Xotre Dame/Saint Mary's Student Special : 
services, a picnic, relay races for stu­dents and their "Lil' Sibs," and a 
mass. "As a special project. it was : double print of each negative includes processing : : wlstudent photo I.D. • 
•
+ Xotre Dame/Sa1nt Mary's Special$ + lOOJ'o Discount on all work done here + 
... CLC ..........................¥•••••• 
··The Best in Aged Steaks 
120 N. Main Street Downtown, Mishawaka 
255-7737 
for reservations lunch 11:00 A.M. to 2:00P.M. Dinner 5:00P.M. 
r.2~!,,~f,~L 
SZECHUAN -t':Ai'ITON~SE-AMERICAN 
CHUCK WHITE 
* *
At The Piano Bar· 
See Chuck every Wed, Fri. & Sat. ~:()II p.m.-1:00 Ol.m .....Enju) l.il't! 
• Dancing•Drinks•Dinqer 
•llnspitaliJ,•Rfasnnab.k Prin·, 
Lunch Special $1.99 to $4.25 
Dinner Specials: Beef Liver $2.95 Pork Fried Noodles $3.00 Pork Egg Foo-yung $3.25 
·'Th<' Res/ ('h{nese Food i 'uu · • e Ever i :u.:· · 
HOURS. OPEN 7 DAYS MI.Jn Thur 11 30am-10·00prn 
A WEEK "ri. & Sat. 11:30a.m.-11:00p.m 
130 DIXIE HWY. SOUTH
Sun. & Holidays 4 p.m.-9:00p.m. 
Happy Hour 5 7 P M SOUTH BEND(Roseland) 
3~NQUET ROOMS & Next to Randall'· lr... GROUP RATES 
WAILABLE 272-7376 
continuedfrom page I 
to conduce the "nice" type of party mentioned in Yonchak's proposal, hut they have eroded to their present condition, Green noted. 
Green is afraid that section parties would be subject to the same type of erosion. Rather than instate a new section party proposal, Green sug­gested the council reevaluate the present purpose. of the residence hall's pany rooms. 
Along with Green's comments. other C.LC. members suggested al­ternatives to the section party proposal. Alumni Hall Rector, Father George Rozum, and Stanford Hall Rector, Brother Viator Grzeshowiak, allow parties in several rooms in a section as long as halls remain clear. 
Professor of Aemspace, Stephen Batill, suggested different policies for different halls and suggested leaving the decision and respon­



sibility up to individual rectors. 
112 Barrels Quarts
~ \ WHISKEY 
BUD L_IGHT $2999
In other business, the council dis­
MILLER LITE
&,: BEAM
cussed appropriating University 
MICHELOB$31 $899
~ BLEND 1 ?S LIHR 8.99
funds to finance the installation of permanent benches and picnic 
PABST $?99
·~ ·~ BEAM • 111 
;-::::.. BOURBON LITER 10,99
__,
tables in various areas around 
AUKEE 
campus. They also discussed bring­
JACK DANIELS
ing cable T.V. on campus, and un­animously passed a proposal to look in-to the feasibility ofsuch a project. 
WINE 
Giacobazzi Bia'lCO 
1.99 
CARLO ROSSI4 99 
BIG 4 LITER • 
4.99 
The Observer 
continuedfrom page 1 
"We still have far more people than we can accept." The report expressed a fear however, that stu­dent quality will t diminish, fewer minorities will apply, and the stu­dent body will evolve to consist only ofwealthy students if more financial aid is not made available. 
The report calls for multiplying the endowment for student financial aid threefold. O'Meara informed the audience that the University makes a "very deliberate effort to keep costs down. We're "cutting away all kinds of fat." He expressed the fear that otherwise in five to six years that Notre Dame would be "pricing itself out ofthe market." 
The report also contained a sec­tion on hall life. "Some of the older halls for men are on the bit crowded side," O'Meara observed. He also spoke of the common complaint that these dorms do not provide ade­quate social space for its residents. The committee rejected the sugges­tion of building another dorm but recommended the construction ofa "townhouse type complex." This complex would be open only to seniors and would be selective in choosing residents from applica-
Balloon Bouquets 


r· 
277-6776 
&WAOR 
THE WHO'S TORONTO CONCERT Fri., Dec. 17-10 p.m.-Stepan Center 
Festival Seating-Student Tickets $4.00 
Tix available at SU Record Store A Campus Entertainment Network Presentation 
~YYVY~~~~~~~~~yy~~~~~~~yy~~~~ 
Friday, December 3, 1982-page 4 
.. ~.O'Meara 
tions. 
Astudent from the audience ques­tioned O'Meara about the possibility ofco-ed dorms in the future at Notre Dame. O'Meara replied, "The general feeling is that we did not want it here. I don't expect a change in that." When pressed for a reason he called it a value judgement. he said, "We discussed it, but not at great length." He also expressed doubt that the senior townhouses would be co-ed. O'Meara did present a recommendation that the men to women ratio at Notre Dame be reaccessed. 
When speaking about the section of the report entitled "Responsible Use of Alcohol," O'Meara surfaced questions about the severity of the drinking problem on campus. He asked, "Is the drinking here as bad as it is at other schools?" The audience answered strongly but with mixed answers. 
The report recommends that a committee be formed to provide outlines for responsible drinking. He said, "We're not going to have three c;:redits in responsible drinking." He continued, "I don't think the situa­tion is out of control; I don't think anyone thinks that." 
O'Meara also expressed the opinion that the drinking problem could be solved by providing a bet­ter social center rather than strong­er regulations. Answering a question from the audience, O'Meara said, "There is no talk in the air at all that alcohol should not be made available." 
A complete review of the present curriculum is called for by the com­mittee. The new curriculum should stress philosophy and theology. It recommends a "broad education" .even for those in professional schools. O'Meara stated, "Students should not go into a straight jacket." 
The committee also questioned the rise in amounts of A's and B's awarded since the Vietnam war years. The report expresses a con­cern about academic standards. 
l~qual emphasis must be placed on tea,ching and research at the Univer­sity according to the committee. O'Meara said, "That's what you have to do ifyou want to be an influential university in our society." 
Standards for promotions and tenure for the faculty are recom­mended to be raised. The report also expresses the need for a Catholic ·faculty so that Notre Dame can maintain its Catholic identity. This is a prime concern of the committee. Notre Dame must be concious of its Catholic mission and this must be refllected in the University's actions. O'Meara cited Harvard as an ex­ample ofa university that lost its for­
mer religious identity. 
Another area ofconcern is the use 
of computers at Notre Dame. It is 
rec·ommended that computer 
classes and computer use in ad­
ministration be improved. 
The report includes a recom­
mendation on athletics. O'Meara 
said, "Student athletes should be 
regarded first as students." They 
should live in regular student 
housing, be enrolled in a normal 
program of studies, and should 
gr~tduate in four years according to 
tht: report. 
THe report took two years to 
complete and was the work of 24 
faculty members. Many students, 
faculty, and alumni served on sub­
committees that provided the com­
mittee with the necessary 
information. Originally the report 
was meant to be given to Father Hes­
burgh's successor after his retire­
mt:nt. 

THERE ARE MANY ADVANTAGES TO THIS SUPRISINGL Y AFFORDABLE ALTERNATIVE 
* 
Minutes from Campus * Tax Benefits * Build Equity 

* 
Attached Garages * Included Maintenance * Study Area 


* Room to Accomodate Guests from Home in your Own Home ! ! ! 
MODEL OPEN DAILY 1·5 
EXCEPT WEDI~ESDAY 
On Crownhill Drive, off Ironwood 
* oN 
North of Cleveland Road 
CROWNHILL I ) 
277-1177 or 272-7750 Another Development by CLEVELAND
PORTAGE REALTY 
The Observer 
Tylenol case 
Police question L.A. man 
DES PLAINES, Ill. ( AP) -A 35­year-old mechanic was tlown back from California yesterday to be questioned by authorities investigat­ing the deaths ofseven Chicago-area residents who took Extra-Strength Tylenol capsules laced with cyanide. 
Kevin \1asterson. who has not been charged with any crime in con­nection with the Tylenol case, arrived at O'Hare International Air­port at 12:+! p.m. CST and was taken immediately to the headquarters of 
the  task  force  investigating  the  
deaths.  
He  was  greeted  there  hy  his  

father, John, and attornev, David -.chippers, and the thr<'"t" went into a 

closed-door meeting. 
Authorities said they wanted to question Masterson, partly because he reportedly held grudges against two of the stores where the poisoned medicine was purchased. Authorities also said a search of his room~ in the Chicago area LUrned up 
two  Tylenol  capsules  and  two  
bottles marked poison.  
Masterson,  wearing  a  brown  
open-neck  tennis shirt,  navy  blue  

down vest, work boots and a pair of blue jeans with the cuffs rolled up, hugged his father upon his arrival at the task force headquarters. 
None of the three would com­ment to reporters about the case. 
Christmas card sale 
to benefit UNICEF 
ByJACK AMARO tions and individuals contribute to .VewsStaff the UNICEF drive. Three years ago, acts like Earth, Wind, and Fire, AB­In the tradition of aiding l'NICEF BA, Rod Stewart, Donna Summer, during Christmas, the Ladies of Olivia Newton-John, Andy Gibb, and Notre Dame are making their con­the Bee Gees donated a percentage tribution to UNICEF by selling of their December single releases to Christmas cards at the Library Con­the general fund of UNICEF. The 
A ~ource close to the case, who asked not to be identified, said Mas­terson would be questioned about the deaths, then he taken to Du Page CircUit Court in Wheaton for a bond hearing on a marijuana possession charge. 
Masterson·s return to Illinois came three days .tfter he surren­dered to the FBI in Los Angeles. He was turned over to citv police there and booked on a fugitive warrant in connection with the mariJuana charge. 
Masterson waived extradition at a hearing Wednesday on the fugitive warrant. He spent rwo nights in a Los Angeles lockup. 
Illinois AttorneY General Tyrone Fahner has said Masterson is not a suspect in the seven deaths, but said, ··we definitely want to talk to him about the Tylenol murders." 
Fahner also said Ma.~terson. who left his home in suburban Lombard in late October, ha.~ "made state­ments to various people that he was involved in the cyanide killings." But the attorney general also cautioned that Masterson apparently is the kind ofperson who says things "that are not true or that he docs not mean." 
Kevinjobn Masterson, left, is escorted by unidentified law t.J­ficers to a car in the basement ofthe court building in LosAngeles Wednesday. Masterson arrived in Chicago yesterday wherE: be was questioned about the Tylenolpoisonings. (APPhoto) 
course. The sale started Monday morning and will run through the weekdays until next Friday at 5:30 p.m. 
Emily Conway, the organizer of the sale, is somewhat pessimistic about the funds the sale will raise. "Last year we collected S4000 and our goal this year is to equal that amount. With the economy as it is, we cannot be too enthusiastic about the amount of money collected." 
According to Conway, the money raised will go directly to the General Fund of UNICEF to help the or­ganization in the new programs it wants to fund for the improvement of some of the neediest children in the world. 
UNICEF is recognized throughout the world for their work with needy children, but this work requires large sums ofmoney. Many organiza­money donated to the fund went Fahner heads the task force in­beyond S5 million and helped UNI­vestigating the deaths of seven CEF in its special food programs for people who took the poisoned the starving children ofthe world. capsules in late September. 

Open Meeting for 
Hall Representatives for MARDI GRAS Mon., Dec. 6 7PM library lounge 


----------GGYllP'bB---------­
Jnlt64 JrintJJiJJtria 
Se.rving Polish Style & Italian Pizza,
FREE 
DELIVERY Pierage, Sandwiches 272-8030 toND&SMC S150 OFF any large 10.0/o-OFF any 18061 SouthBendAve. Sl 00 OFF anymed timewithouta 
· coupon
I .!hlt•t."-\\t''"ltlllr,,II\\IHKion\t.rJ.2~ 
5.50 OFF anysmall
("ot ~ood \\ ith ntht:r loupon\ or di\tount\) 
exp1res December 30, 1982 
'----------G01JlPOR ----------' 
AUTHENTIC MEXICAN FOOD 
ELMATADOR 
MEXICAN RESTAURANT IN SOUTH BEND 2120 W. WESTERN AVE. 
288 3600 •••• No•••••••••••••No-••••
Ho~rs: ~ FREE FANT~STIC VALUE FREE ~ T ues Wed z Buy One Dmner at Reg. Price z Thur~ 11-9' ~· EL MATADOR Get Second Dir.ner EL MATADOR ~ 
• ;J 2120W. WESTERN FREE 2120W. WESTERN g
Frl, Sat 8 SOUTH BEND SOUTH BEND u 11 11 
-• EXPIRES 12-11-82 DINE-IN OR CARRY-OUT NO LIMIT II ,~ IN-DTHIS COUPON NOT GOOD WITH ANY OTHER SPECIAL NO :!:!i I •••••••••••••••••••• • 


: Clueless? Get involved with : 
i lil' Sibs Weekend i
. .
~ 
: April15, 16 & 171983 ..:~~ ·r : : Applications for Committee Chairmen available ((~~ : + at Student Government Office 2nd floor La Fortune ._ ~~·,~;;.. +
• ''t~ ~ • 
• Due Thursday, December 9 "-,~j; :
1••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••~ 

[---~-----~---~ --­
Friday, December 3, 1982 -page 6 
Editorials 

Obseruer readership forum Each day during lunch, a beige van delivers The Observer to the 10,000 of opinions on our editorial pages? How hard-nosed should our sports members ofthe Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community. By dinnertime, reporting be? most of the copies have been relegated to dining hall dumpsters and ad­These are the questions we ask ourselves. We sometimes have trouble ministrative trash cans. The next day, the process repeats itself. finding those answers. Most of the time, the beige van is the only link between the readers and But our readers, who see only our delivery va.n, have even more trouble the staff of The Observer. We do get letters, most of which we print, but helping us answer those questions. cumulatively they represent less than 1 percent ofour readership. To bridge this communications .gap, The Observer is holding a forum at As the logo proclaims, The Observer is "The independent student 6:30p.m. Monday in the Library Auditorium. We hope that all our readers newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's." This is a goal toward will take advantage ofthis opportunity to help us improve. Observer depart­which we strive. But it's not easy. ment heads and editors will be available for your complaints, questions, or What types ofstories do the readers want? Should we devote more space suggestions. to national news? How useful are reviews ofthe arts? Do we have a diversity  

Buying time: a copper in the kettle 
Chicago -Since three weeks before Thanksgiving, red Salvation Army kettles and men wearing navy blue suits have taken their places along State and Wabash Streets. Calling for shoppers and businessmen to drop their spare change, the bell ringers sound a 
Paul McGinn 
Roper Review 
Christmas greeting to a bustling audience racing to its-next stop. 
Meanwhile, the "unorganized charities" of drifters and beggars stand sit along Michigan Avenue. They ask for money from the same people who were only a few minutes before visually accosted by garish Christmas-red kettles. 
Most of us are busy. We have things to do, places to go, people to meet. Our schedules allow for little variance. We are a time-clock nation, punching in at birth, taking a few IS­minute breaks along the way until we punch 
out 75 years later. We have devised a way by which to help others while not stopping: money. 
We donate money to churches, schools, hospitals -even beggars. We acknowledge the less-fortunate and give what we can -as long as what we give doesn't take too much time. 
Our American concept ofscience has made us so conscious of minutes and seconds that we forget the hours and days. When we ask a stranger, "What time is it?" we expect an exact answer from his digital watch. We rarely hear it's quarter after eight, or about three; it's 8:19 or 3:08. We thrive on numbers, and on how best to juggle our lifestyle through the manipulation ofthose numbers. 
And the things most easily juggled are the "time-consuming" activities: the simple "Hello," or "How are you?" suddenly trans­form into the moments lost in saying those words. Quiet chats, late-night talks, and the needs of strangers become just another func­tion oftime-juggling. We figure that if we are able to interpret a duty or job in terms ofnum­bers, we can pare the appointment or spon­taneous conversation to the bare minimum. 
And the easiest way to pare down our duty to others is by translating that reponsibility in­to dollars and cents. When we say how much money we want to give to a charity or bow much change we can spare for the legless beg­gar, we feel we have done a good deed with­out really having affected our supposedly busy and arduous lives. 
But our giving cannot stop at financial con­
tribution. It is presence which influences 
those most in need. What they ask is also the 
most precious thing to us -time. They, too, 
want to tell their story, to relate their 
philosophy and win a friend. 
When we silently throw out coins, we do not even allow the less-fortunate to affect our way ofthinking. We simply deny their ability to communicate to us because oftheir plight. We shield ourselves from their wealth of knowledge by our very reluctance to listen. 
The down-trodden become acutely aware that we perceive them as different from us. They see our silence as saying we do not care tc hesitate long enough to interrupt our str ides. Our singular motion toward our goal seems to say we're better than you because we do not dawdle on sidewalks or urinate in subways. 
We see the poor as innumerable men and women who crowd an already over-crowded central business district. We feel that even if we stop, we cannot help them all -so we do not even recognize one. Maybe if we give them money, they will disappear. 
But the needy do not disappear. Money does not make them go away. But a vocal ack­nowledg(:ment along with a two-bit piece just might hellp them and us get through the day. When it comes to helping the needy, talk is cheap, but cheap doesn't always mean in­ferior. 
Attention and concern can give the des­titute a place amid our bustling lives. The needy don't just want money; they want our time. 
i 
[:. 
' 
! 
i 
I· 
Relations between the United States and the!, Soviet Union have been in a period ofdecline 
b 
during the past few years. Recent events seem to indicate that the world's two superpowers may be entering into another period of Cold
r 
War. The cooling of relations doesn't appear 
Randyfahs 
friday Analysis· 
to be as severe as it was during the period following World War II, but it is nevertheless still significant in world politics. 
Soviet-American relations may have reached their peak during the SALT II treaty negotiations during the late 1970s. Jimmy Carter and l.eonid Brezhnev, while remaining cautious ofeach other's intentions, seemed to follow the course ofdetente as it was initiated during the Nixon Administration. Due to the political ill-health of Carter and the physical demise of Brezhnev, neither man is his na­tion's leader today. 
Ronald Reagan has taken a narrower and 
more unbending view ofSoviet intentions. He 
may deliver rhetoric about seeking arms 
reductions and better relations with the Rus­
sians, but no advances have been made in 
either area. 
The MX missile program and other ex­penditures on military hardware serve to drive both sides farther apart on the issue of arms control. In general, he shows no signs of engaging in improving relations with the Soviets until the US possesses clear military superiority. This is obviously the most in-
Another Cold War? 
other over the brink. 
This period of waning relations is likely to be shorter in duration and less serious than the previous one. With pressure in America for a nuclear arms freeze, coupled with the possibility of more prudent presidential leadership after 1984, the United States will be more liikely to resume serious arms reduc­tion negotiations and work toward better rela­tions. 
As the Soviets move out oftheir transitional period, they too will probably be more likely to resum(: detente. It is difficult to speculate about what these relations will look like, but one thing is clear, we are now going through a period ofuncertainty in USA-USSR relations. 
fertile ground possible for the cultivation of better US-USSR understanding and interac­tion. 
Brezhnev's death leaves the Soviet Union in 
a period of governmental reorganization. If 
Yuri Andropov is to emerge :~s the supreme 
leader, he will do it by consolidating his 
power block along a hard line against the 
West. 
Detente has a ring of "weakness" and "vulnerability" to the Soviets. Only after the power struggle has died down will there be any approach on their part toward a warming of relations. The choice ofAndropov, the for­mer head ofthe KGB and more of a hardliner than his predecessor, may signal a long term policy of confrontation more than reconcilia­tion. 
Certain world events other than the in­dividual leadership of each nation have helped to draw the two nations farther apart. The crisis in Poland and the Russian interven­tion in Afghanistan have certainly hurt East­West relations. 
What is perceived in the Soviet Union to be the maintenance of national security or the aiding of an ally is read in the United States as hegemonistic and a further adherence to the Marxist doctrine ofspreading communism by force if necessary. 
The world is a different place than it was 
during the initial Cold War. No longer can it 
be divided into clear East-West blocs. The 
Western Europeans have emerged as free­
thinking nations who will not jump into line 
every time Uncle Sam snaps his fingers. Unrest 
in Eastern Europe and the Sino-Soviet split 
have forced the Russians to be less certain of their allies. The nations of the Third World have also shown an unwillingness to be drawn into disputes on one side or another. 
The division of the world community into many independent factions will help to keep the United States and the Soviet Union from turning the world into a pair ofhostile camps which are armed to the hi-lt. But, it is unclear if this situation can have any effect on bringing the two superpowers together. 
The new era of cool relations will not be marked as much by threats of thermonuclear war as by strong &tatements of censure and more mild "saber rattling." Both sides have too much to lose in the event ofa military con­frontation to take the risks of pushing the 

~­
IM~======~= EditorW. Board Department Managers 
~-: 
Box Q, NotreDame, IN46556 
Editor-in-Cbief:........... : ...'.~ ..:.........Michael Monk BusinessMan<lger.........-........; ........... Tony Aiello 
, Tbe Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­
Managing Editor................Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller.....~ ......................................Eric Schulz 
versity ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College, It does not necessarily reflect 
Executive News Editor ..............David Dziedzic AdvertisingManager.......................Chris Owen
the policies -of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­
SMCExecutiveEditor............Margaret Fosmoe Production Manager..................Maura Murphy 
curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa 
Sports Editor...................................Chris Needles Circulation Manager......................Mark Miotto
majority ofthe Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict 
Editorials Editor .............................Paul McGinn Systems Manager...........................Bruce Oakley 
the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, 
Features Editor ...................................Tari Brown 
and the free expression ofvarying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Photo Editor............... -..................Rachel Blount Founded November 3, 1966 
(219) 239-5303 
~Stt0 W C fi~SiiiiiEiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiFridaiiiiiy,
Deciiiiiemberiiiii3,
198iiiii2piiiiiage7 
A matter of style 
M
any ofus who care about being popular are con­believed in Jesus as a God who smokes. I can hear her sciousofa form ofmanners we call style. Style may saying: "He handed out wine. He probably would not be descdbed as a mask you wear when you face the have minded ifyou passed Him a joint." Remember, this world. I want to be identified as a wit, an intellectual, a was the generation when priests and nuns were bon vivant, a Christian, a sophisticate. To have the style celebrating "pizza and beer/Jesus is here" liturgies. ofa wit, I must also appear as pleasantly cynical. To have Such informality was never part ofthe Church"s style, the style ofan intellectual, I must shun the popular but in those days a lot ofsilliness was overlooked if it books, but Ishould learn the names ofessayists in all the had the appearance ofsincerity. dull journals. I should be counted as one who hates There are high styles and low styles; there is a style, as dogs, children, and Walt Disney movies, though I can when Leonard Bernstein entertained the Black Pan­admire race horses, if rm not a gambler. Intellectuals thers in his Park Avenue apartment, that Tom Wolfe 
calls "radical chic." The Panthers, as well as Lenny with his "elegant slumming," were putting each other on,
Rev. Robert Gtiffi n Tom Wolfe assures us. Astudent from Brooklyn urged me to seeSaturdayNight Fever, where the style among the lords ofFlatbush Avenue is mucho macho. "It is real­
lettets to a lonely god ly like that," the student said. "After a semester at Notre 
Dame, I feel outranked in muscle when Igo to a dance at practising their trade, as well as sophisticates and bon the Penthouse Club." vivants, make a hobby ofknowing wines. I can per­An older woman acting like an ingenue is practising sonally distinguish between fourteen different kinds of her style An executive wearing cowboy boots is chocolate chip cookies; no one is impressed but anoth­groping his way toward a style. Most everyone is into er cookie lover. I can taste Almaden or Beaujolais, and some kind ofstyle, because one's public image depends not notice a grape's worth ofdifference. My friends -on having a style. We use style to keep people at a dis­who can tell last year's vintage from this year's, Califor: tance, or draw them closer. Unethical people use their nia wine from German, and the peculiar bouquet from styles for manipulation. That is why the "holier than the vines grown in chalky soil-are the darlings ofthe thou" style is so offensive, because a willful person ap­
sophisticated set at dinner. They also would never send pears to us under a mask that represents God. Brie to serve where Camembert is needed. They out­Sometimes, our critics, discerning the difference be­rank me in style, though I am more fun to be with, a fol­tween ourstyle and oursubstance, accuse us ofplaying lower ofa humbler Kraft. Among the social graces, wine games. The game, however, is not necessarily dis­tasting and cheese nibblings represent a style that can honorable, because it is wisely self-protective to be reach the height ofan art form. private about our vulnerabilities and limitations. 
Bible thumping is a religious style. An Irishman will Sometimes, if we are faithful to our style, we become say, "God bless you," as a kind ofreflex action, because as stylishly successful as we dreamed ofbeing. The wit the ancient gods ofIreland were so moody. A fun­becomes a true wit; the intellectual becomes a scholar; damentalist will say, "God bless you, brother," indicat­the fourflusher becomes rich, and can afford to pick up ing by a word the style in which he is a Christian. One the tab at every meal he's invited to. For some, their sub­does not mind the praises ofthe Lord scattered through stance is their style; what you see is what you get. I have a conversation, as long as the faith and charity of the know Christians like that, and they are the glory ofthe speaker comes all the way from his soul. The old song Church. says, "They will know we are Christians by our love." Most ofus, however, start out as undomesticated Show people give love a bad name, because they style creatures needing style. Your style should always be themselves as lovers, yet many ofthem can'tget enough bigger than yourself; otherwise you settle for too little love together to keep a marriage going. "Love" from the in life, and that's worse than being ambitious. mouth ofjohnnie Carson's guests is a four letter word Your style becomes your second nature, ifyou are that shouldn't be used on television. comfortable with it. Ifyou arenot comfortable, you will 
During the Vietnam war, I saw a local coed going to dislike yourselfas a phoney. Communion at an outdoor Mass with a lighted cigarette When itcomes to phonies, I have to look at myself. As in her hand. It struck me as tacky, ifnot sacrilegious; but you have probably guessed, I have written more about in the mood ofthe counter culture, she probably style than I really know. 
Christmnstown, USA 
A ccording to the traditional tions. Bronner's interest in decora­right ornament or gift that you have 
.ll..Christmas story, Twas the Night tions began as a teenage when he in mind; where the assortment of Before Christmas, the house was worked with various materials to purchasable items are akin to what decorated with holly and berries, create some ofthe designs that even­you might find in a candy store; the stockings were hung by the tually led to his full-time involve­where Christmas is celebrated 361 chimney, and a plateofcookiesand a ment in the merchant business. days ofthe year (the store is closed glass of milk awaited Santa by the Today, some 35 years after New Year's Day, Easter, Thanksgiv­fireside. All was ready in anticipation Bronner began his service to the ing, Christmas and Good Friday from 
. ofthe most festive day ofgiving, community, Bronner's Family 12 to 3 p.m.). If on your way east, 
Christmas. In a little town, situated Christmas Wonderland has con­you happen to need a healthy dose centrated its activities under one ofChristmas, take 1-75 north to the roof(as opposed to the three Frankenmuth exit.
Tori Brown separate stores that the business used to occupy on Main Street) and 
*********** 
has become America's largest year round.display ofChristmas items. 'Twas Christmas time in Franken­
featutea 
Located at 25 Christmas Lane, the muth between Saginaw and Flint, Michi­store contains almost every kind of and all through the Town. gan, every merchant, restauranteur Christmas paraphenalia from tradi­The people were bustling and craftsman anticipates the arrival tional glass tree ornaments to life and shopping around. of December 2 5 every day ofthe size lawn ornaments. In the lobby of For a special kind ofpresents, year. To people all over the world, the store, there are statuettes of from a special kind ofplace. Frankenmuth, Michigan is carollers in 1890's dress singing Frankenmuth ...the Christmas Christmastown. amidst the ho-ho-ho's ofSanta and Town ... 
In I845, a group ofGerman mis­his elves just a few feet away. A walk with a relaxing kind ofpace .. . 
sionaries emigrated from Bavaria to through the store takes about an andfriendly kind ofpeople .. . the Cass River region where the hou t r or more (depending upon your and a German style its own. present city situated. Their journey intent -gazing or purchasing). In A place whereyou can visit, was a religious one in which they the course ofa few hundred feet, yetfeel so right at home. 
hoped to convert the Indians that one will encounter various counters The people comefrom nearandfar occupied the territory to the tenets filled wi_th creations from Mexico, to see this town so rare. ofChristianity. To support them­Guatemala, Ireland and Pakistan. Christmas shopping. Cl:wistmas 
selves, they became farmers, The major portion ofthe floor space spirit ... cultivating the fertile ground fed by is devoted to the glass bulb display. a charisma in the air. the Cass River. They were joined in Here it is possible to1ind ornaments Findnggiftsfor all theirlovedones, their prosperity by the growing with the names ofevery cousin, as special as they be. lumbering industry which fed off of brother, sister, nephew or niece or From awesome gifts ...to pre­the vast forests ofthe Saginaw valley to say "Merry Christmas" in over 30 cious ... area. languages. toplace about the tree. 
Frankenmuth acquired its reputa­Bronner's ofFi'ankenmuth is a Hand blowrNChristmas ornaments, tion as Christmastown, USA, when congenial type ofplace, where lady Gifts ofthe German kind. Wally Bronner opened his store to elves will search through moun­Exciting things to do and see sell home-made Christmas decora-tainous stock rooms to find just the and memoriesfor the mind! 

•THEATRE 
The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre Department in conjunction with the College ofArts and Letters presents Sean O'Casey'sCock-A­Doodle Dandy. O'Casey, a self-exile to England from his native Ireland, has composed a play centering around the invasion ofa large cockon a rather stolid, set-in-its-ways town. Its presence causes~ riff between the younger and elderfactions ofthe community. Through these two forces, O'Casey examines reactions to change: resistance and acceptance. The production will be staged in the Little Theatre at Saint Mary's tonight at 8 p.m. Tomorrow night O'Casey's]uno and the Paycock will be performed by the Chicago-based Theatre Gutld ofthe Arts at 8:30p.m. in the Little Theatre. Admission is free. 
Thorton Wilder'sTheMatchmaker will be presented by the South 
Bend Civic Theatre Inc. tonight and tomorrow night, and will con­
tinue December 9, 10, 11, 16, 17 and 18. This play, the basis for the 
musical comedy, Hello Dolly, drew upon a comedy written by 
johann Mestroy,Einen]ux WillEs Sich Machen, which was in turn 
based on an English original, A Day Well Spent byJohn Oxenford. 
Reservations may be made by calling 234-5696 or 233-0683. The 
theatre is located at 70I Portage Avenue, South Bend. 
•DANCE The popular Christmas classic, Tchaikovsky'sNutcracker, will us­her in the holiday season with performancesSunday at 4:30 and 7:30 
p.m. at the Concord Performing Arts Center. The Michiana Ballet Company will dance to the live accompaniment provided by the Elkhart Symphony Orchestra under Dr. Michael Esselstrom. Tickets are S5 for adults and 53 for students and seniorcitizens. They may be purchased from the Michiana Ballet or the Elkhart County Sym­phony Association and are also available at Templin's, Truth Reader Service and Century Center Box Office. For more information call 293-1087 or 293-37IO. 
•MOVIES 
The 1981 Academy Award winner for best actor and best actress 
will be shown in the Engineering Auditorium tonight and tomorrow 
night at 7, 9 and II p.m. On Golden Pond, starring Henry Fonda and 
Katharine Hepburn, is the story ofan elderly couple coming to grips 
with the relationships between themselves, their daughter, their 
grandson, and the modern world. Mark Rydell also won an Oscar for 
Best Screenplay. For an enjoyable evening, looking at scenery from 
New Hampshire and Maine, this is highly recommended. Admission 
is Sl. 
Ingmar Bergman adapted one of Mozart's most resonant and lyri­cal operas, The Magic Flute, in his I975 film version ofthe same title. Presented as a part of the continuing Friday Night Film Series, The Magic Flute follows a pair ofstar-crossed lovers and an impish little man in this tale oflove, magic and quest. Mozart's score remains in­tact with Swedish lyrics accompanying it. Showtime is 7:30p.m. in Annenberg Auditorium and tickets are S2. 
•MUSIC 
Goshen College will present Handel's classic Christmas oratorio, 
The Messiah Sunday at 3 p.m. in the Union building on the Goshen 
College campus. The oratorio will be performed by a choir and or­
chestra which will include the GC Chorale, Chamber Choir, music 
faculty and selected music students. Arousing "Hallejuiah" chorus is 
the perfect musical way to begin the Christmas season. 
Color, pageantry, festive warmth and holiday tidings abound as 
the Saint Mary's College department of music presents the 11th an­
nual Madrigal Christmas Dinners tonight, tomorrow and Sunday 
evenings. The Chamber Singers and Collegium Musicum, dressed in gaily-colored sixteenth-century costumes, treat Madrigal diners with traditional Christmas and Renaissance music as a reminder of the ancient lineage of many Yuletide traditions. The program features singing, dancing and feasting. The menu for the dinner in­cludes baron of beefau jus, pommys de terre y-rosted, carrots endored, winter sallet. ofpommys morles, smallage and nottes, w;~s­
tylbrede, puddying of plommes and wassail. The dinner wili be held 
in the North Lounge of Regina Hall. Seating will begin at 6:30 p.m. 
and dinner will be served at :p.m. Tickets are S12 per person and 
may be purchased at the Saint Mary's ticket office. For more informa­
tion, contact the ticket office at 284-4626. 
•NAZZ 
Friday night at the Nazz will witness the ever popular,EtAI at 9:30 
p.m. 
in concert. The act features people who perform at the 12:15 

p.m. 
mass on Sundays. Folk music will be in the spotlight Saturday night as the Nazz sponsors an evening filled with the strains of campus folk musicians. john Kennedy will sing Irish folk songs, followed by John Sase who will sing American folk tunes and original compositions. Come out and see them. 


•CHAUTAUQUA 
The sounds of Duke Tumatoe arid the All-Star Frogs will be jum­ping off the wall, especially off ofjim Morrison's portrait, tomorrow night at 9 and 10:30 p.m. in Chautauqua. The Frogs, although a regional phenomena, have traveled into some ofour better states, Iowa, Indiana, Illinois, Wisconsin, and Michigan, bringing with them their own "Blues and Rhythm" style of music. If you're a Frog devotee, don't miss your chance to see them in person. 
'
I I 
' 
-~ 
~j)()~ts=JEJ==~==~=·(3~=S======~=F=======================Fr=id=a=y,=D=e=ce=m=b=e=r=3,=1=98=2===p=ag=e=8
By The UIJserl'er and The Associated Press 
A free-throw contest sponsored hv the American. Cancer Society will he held at the .\1adison School in South Bend on tomorrow afternoon from 12 to 2. It is open to all ages, and prizes will be awarded for the most free throws made out of ';0. For more information on registration, call the ACS at 2:34-4097. -The Ob­
server 
The Saint Mary's basketball teamtravels to 
Goshen, Ind. this weekend to play in the Goshen College Tourna­ment. Tonight the Belles are matched against Franklin College, and are scheduled to play lkthel College tomorrow. Entering tonight's game. the team's record stands at 1-2. -/"be Obsen,er 
Dennis Green of Northwestern has been 
named Associated Press Big Ten football Coach ofthe Year. Green. in only his second year at ~orthwestern, guided the Wildcats to a .3-~ record which, in many msrances. would get a l:oach tired. Bur the three victories were monumental streak stoppers. Northwestern -ended an NCAA record losing streak of ::'>4 games with a victory over Northern Illinois. The Wildcats then dosed a .38-game Big Ten losmg streak with a triumph ovt:r Minnesota and ended the sea~on with a victory at Michigan State, snapping a 46-game winless streak on the road. Green received I 02 first-place votes and a total of 448 points to finish well ahead of Hayden Fry oflowa who had 60 tlrsts and 3';2 points. Mike White ofIllinois was third with 2'1 firsts and 188 points. Bo Schembechler of Michigan's Big Ten champions was fourth with 162 points followed by Earle Bruce ofOhio State with I 02 points. ­
AP. 
The Gymnastics Club has changed its 
practice times to Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays at the Angela Athletic Facility and Tuesdays and Thursdays at The Rock. All practices will be held between 4 and 6 in the afternoon. -The Observer 
Joe Montanapassed for 305 yards and led the San Fran­cisco 49ers on a 53-yard touchdown drive late in the fourth quarter to give San Francisco a 30-24 win over the Los Angeles Rams. The 49ers improved their record to 2-3 despite 286 yards passing by Rams quarterback Vince Ferragamo. Montana has now passed for more than 1000 yards over the last three games. -AP 
lJpsetby'savagery' 
No more pro-fights for Cosell 
LOS ANCELES ( AP) -Howard That one-sided fight came in the up for 50 vear~." Cosell, who ha:. informed ABOTV wake of the heating absorbed by In addition to dting the brutality that he will no longer cover profes­Alexis Arguello in a World Boxing ofpro boxing m making his deci~1on sional boxing, ~aid yesterdav a Association junior welterweight to quit working the sport. Cosell said choice should be made between title tight with Aaron Pryor and the he was tirt·d of the "hypocrisy and improving protection for the fatal beating of Duk Koo Kim in a skazincs.s" of the hoxing :.cenc. fighters or abolishing the sport. WBA lightweight title tight with Ray He suggcMed that tht· networks 
"J realize the sport ts one man "Boom Hoom" :\lancim. refuse to coYer pro boxing until ~eeking to knock the brams out ot Cosell satd the .tccumulation of some type of legislation was passed .mother. but ll ~till ha~ been a verv events maue htm <leciue to yuit to proten the Hghters with strict unportanL par! ot m" lire." Co~ell broau(.·aMing boxing. rules for safety anti medical ex­~a1d. ''lthmk am onl' over!. vears old lie satd that he intended to cover amination. a reliahle system of who has seen what's gomg 1ll1 should Olympic boxing if the network ratings wa:-. in cffen. and the ~port know that somcthmg needs tu he wtshed. citing the Games rules of was administned by the federal done. three-round bouts and mandatory government. 
"I have seen a lot in boxing," said headgear. A spokesman tor ABC said that Cosell who has described and com­"I am Jevotedly loyal to my com­Co~ell was speaking for himself and mented on maJor tights for ABC, pany,· ht: said. "They've hacked me not the network. "and I have done my best over the past two vear~ to change things. 1 have testitied before the govern­BASKETBALL HOCKEY ment. 
"But my tlghting for new stan­Yesterday's Result Notre Dame women 80, Butler women 73

dards wa.~ denounced by the print 
Butler (73) PRINCE OF WALES CONFERENCE
media," said Cosell, who was in 
M FG-A FT-A R F p Adams Division 
southern California for the telecast Morns 40 2-8 7-9 8 4 11 w L T GF GA Pis. Montreal 16 4 6 122 83 38
of last night's National League Foot­Purvlre1s 38 4-6 2-4 12 3 10 
Boston 13 7 6 94 74 32
P1epenbnnk 40 6-9 0-1 6 2 12
ball game between the Los Angeles Buffalo 12 8 5 109 85 29 Young 28 1-3 2-2 0 2 4 
OuHbec 12 10 3 110 115 27
Rams and San Francisco 49ers in 
Skrnner 40 13-24 4-5 3 4 30 Hartford 5 15 3 73 113 13 Anaheim Stadium. "They said keep Hornsby 14 3-3 0-1 2 0 6 Patrick Division 
the federal government out of it ... 200 29-53 15-22 31 15 73 
NY Islanders 15 9 5 108 89 35 Philadelphia 14 9 3 104 84 31
FG Pet 547. FT Pet •.682 Team
But something's wrong when a 
NY Rangers 13 11 1 105 98 27
rebounds -6 Turnovers -17 Ass1sts -10
fighter can get knocked out in New Wash1ng1on 9 9 6 86 91 24 
(Sk1nner 6, Young 4). Teehmeals-None 
Pi«sburgh 8 14 4 90 123 20
Jersey then tight in La-; Vegas a week Notre Dame (80) New Jersey 5 16 7 79 116 17 
later." M FG-A FT·A R F p Karser 30 6-11 0-0 2 5 12 CLARENCE CAMPBELL CONFERENCE
Cosell worked last week's World 
Seheuth 25 7-13 0-1 5 5 14 Smythe Dvlslon Boxing Council heavyweight title w L T GF GA Pis
Bates 32 3-6 1-4 10 0 7 fight in which champion Larry Hensley 28 1-1 2-2 2 3 4 
Edmonton 11 10 6 126 117 28 Los Angeles 12 9 3 88 84 27
Holmes pummeled challenger Dougherty 27 6-11 0-2 0 3 12 
Vancouver 9 11 6 94 90 24 Ebben 26 9-17 4-4 4 0 22
Randy "Tex" Cobb for I'; rounds. Calgary 9 14 5 110 113 23 Matvey 21 4-7 1-2 3 3 9 Winnipeg 10 10 2 103 98 22
Cosell repeatedly wondered aloud 
Basford 11 0-0 0-0 1 2 0 Norris Division why the fight wa.-;n't being stopped 200 36-66 8-15 27 21 80 Ch1cago 17 3 5 109 78 39 Mirnesota 16 8 4 123 101 36
and, at various times, called it FG Pet. 545. FT Pet 533 Team 
St. Louis 9 15 3 92 105 21
rebounds -2 Turnovers -12. Ass1sts -24 (Dougherty 12, Ka1ser 5). Teehn1eals-None. 
"brutal ...savagery ...out­Toronto 4 13 5 74 100 13 
rageous." Detroit 3 17 6 67 117 12 Hallttme -Butler 40. Notre Dame 35. A ­
222. 
The ObSE!rver wtll accept classtfteds Mon­
day through Frtday, 10 am. to 4 30 p.m. However. classtfteds to appear tn the next tssue must be recetved by 3 p.m. the busmess day prtor to tnsertton All class1fteds must be prepatd.
!Classifieds etther m person or through the matI 
50$ Reward For Lost SMC Class R1ng 77 VW Rabbit XCLNT cond1ton Owner PHILAOELPHIA CLUB Need Round Tnp R1de To ConnectiCUt Please Call 5524 financed Call277 6726 1. XMAS BUS sign-ups and ELEC­
For Chnstmas Break W1ll Share Usual. 
TIONSSunday, 12/5 at 6:30 1n Lalortune
:I NOTICES WANTED Please Cdll Dan At 6824 anytime. TEAC A 1 07 cas sene deck 277-87 41 Little Thealre Interested candidates call
I.____.----' 
Chuck 288-0725 
FOUND Set of Keys, room 324. at SMC ; Gf'f\at rev1ew classes for Jan 29th exam If yours call Glenn al 3248 and 1dent1fy ATENCION' All you sophiSticated ladies, 
TIMEX-SINCLAIR MICROCOMPUTER 
"JEED 2 PEOPLE TO SHARE N D APT model 1000 w1th t 6K opliOnal memorv. AtlantaI
beg1n Dec 4th Call Stanley Kaplan key enam 11s Joe D S 19TH B DAYI Stop by 327
NEXT SEM 100 A MONTH CALL MIKE
1 Educa11onal Center lor 1nfo --232-2366 or f-lOWer converter.manual,extra long cable Atlanta! Sorin or call lh1s extremely g1fted hunk at
1376.JOHN 8858 
$145 272-3028 allan1a? I need one nde there and back agatn for 
272-4135. 3569 
One exceptionally stup1d and CASSETTES!! TDK-SA90!1 $2 70/each Chnstmas break Can you gtve me a nde? 
TUTOR for t&sl prep center to teach 
wanted
chagrined &ditor ofthis rag has lost his NO LIMIT!' Makes greal Chnstmas Please call Jeb at 8630 Thank you. 
rev1ew classes for MCAT Reqwres ln­HOTLIPPERS AND FLOWER
... o.k. lhis is weird ... I could use a ride to
graphic arts portfolio; 11 is of no valu& presenlll CALL 289-7640 
d&pth knowledge of Blo,Chem.Phys,cs. CHILDREN OF P W . BIGGER AND to anybody but me. because only I 
Boston FROM Atlanta AFlER Dec. 25 
MCAT scores above 96'o, college degree. The independent student newspaper BETTER THINGS TOCOME FROM 3A
and then-t>ack to AUanta or on back
coutd possibly JUStify this crud to
teachmg expenence a plus. weekend or serving Dame and Saint ss·s
10 school. Jeb 8630. Notre
anybody as art. Nonetheless, 11 does
eve classes beginning Jan. Call232-2366 Mary's. THE OBSERVER 1s your
represent a summers worth ol profes­
after 1 pm newspaper How can THE OBSERVER BARRETT IS LEGAL' (well almost) PAT~
TICKETS
sional graph1cs work, and I would ap­
better serve the Notre Dame/Satnl TIBARRETT HITS THE BIG 21 ON DECNeed R1de To Cormectlcut For Chns1mas 
pr&ciate it 1f anybody with a clue to its
Typmg wanted, fast, accurate, ex­Mary s community? Do you have 41h DON T MISS OUT ON THIS OPPOR­
Break. Please Call Dan At 6824 anytlme
whereabouts would cat/ Joe at the Ob­
penenced, reasonable and close. Call optmons, complatnts, suggesttons for the TUNTY TO SHARE IN THIS MOMEN­272-4105 oaper? Come 10 our very first GENERAL TOUS OCCASION BE AT SENIOR BAR 
serv•or at 283-3119. "JEED 2 STUDENT OR GA TIX FOR KENTUCKY GAME ASK FOR JOHN. 
READERSHIP MEETING Monday, Dec AFTER THE GAME. (oh. happy birthday
WASHINGTON DC AREA Need a ndeon
LOGAN CENTER DANCE on Friday 1768 5 al 6:30 1n rhe L1brary Aud11onum. Stu­cornllakes!)
December 22 Call Kathleen at 233-4598 
night, Dec. 3. Live music!!! Lots of fun Green Flight Jackellosl/stolen m K of C dents, faculty, and adm1mstralors of Notre 
lor VOLUNTEERS!!! PLEASE attend if on fnday night at The CalifOrnia Party NEED UCLA,IU GA TICKETS.PETE Dame and Sa1nt Mary s are encouraged Atlanta
Need RIDERS from Southern California 
you can! Thanks. Please call after 5:00. Reward. 289-8651. 232-1466 to attend. Atlanta ask for Dan ATLANTA
after Chnstmas vac Call Bob at x1681 FOR SALE. 1 UCLA Student tkt CALL
WANTED ATTRACTIVE. SHREWD. Need Bide to Allanla a"er Dec 22. Call 
8824 MAJOR PROBLEM 
AND AGGRESSIVE FEMALE MARKET­RIDERS needed to Flonda (1-75 to Fta Daveat6931 
ING MAJOR FOR A ONE DAY SURVEY LOST: Tl-55 CALCULATOR on the 2nd turnp1ke to Lauderdale) at X-mas. Would
Need lide 10 Detroit over XMAS on Dec
PROJECT OF A LOCAL CORPORA· floor of the library Sunday. Nov 28, w1th DESPERATE!' I need INDIANA basket­like to leave 12/20 bu1 would leave 12/21 I know this is belated, but you know
21. PLEASE call P1a at 4351 
case. My name 15 etched on the back ball tiCkets! Please help by calling X4420. how I procrastinate. Anyway, CON­GOOD PAY. CONTACT MR REWARD. Call MIKE at 3571. Angatoo goza1masu (thank you I) GRATULATIONS TO BARB SCHUC· MIHLBAUGH AT 234-5607 HERT ANO KEVIN IISRAEL on their 
TION. MUST HAVE ACCESS TO A CAR 11 necessary. SUE-6736 
NEED RIDE TO MAINE X-MAS BREAK
LOST: A Woman s gold Butova watch at DESPERATEII I need INDIANA baske1-GUMBY ANO POKEY LIVEII engagementl (For all tho• who Barb
WILL SHARE USUAL 288-3616 after 7 
CHICAGO--I NEED A RIDE TO Regina s Sou1h Lounge Basement. If ball t1ckets! Please help by calling X4420. GUMBY AND POKEY LIVEII has not already told, they got CHICAGO SAT MORNING-DEC 4 WILL found please return. Call5487 (SMC). p.m Anga1oo goza1masu (thank you!) GUMBY ANO POKEY LIVEII engaged.) Can't wall Ill June SHARE PLEASE CALL LISA 7892 '84Llove, Michele.
PLEASE HELPI need nde to DC for Xmass-after 4pm 12/21 Maura X2244 
0: How do you make a hankie dance?? A 
Professional typ1ng. Free pick up and SORRY . . . Due to circumstances delivery Delivery w1thin 24 hours. $.80 Put a lillie boog1e 1n ill! beyond my control (Madrigal D1nners and per page. 282-1805 a screwed-up productiOn stud1o) 1he Top
FOR RENT .j PERSONALS 
NEEDED: 2 ndes to New Jersey lor Xmas There once was a man named Goon Whc' 20 Time Tunnel w111 not be heard th1s 
break. Can leave after 4p.m. Dec.22. Will would make all lhe young lad1es swoon week It might be back nex1 Sunday n1ghl TYPING REASONABLE RATES CALL: share usual Call Pat or Mark a11 059. They 1hought he was G1ng, That he had wtth a spectal Chnstmas countdown, if all EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO Student Hous1ng -Clean -Sale 
287-5162 NOTRE DAME'S AND SAINT MARY'S everythtnQ Ttll he was caught wtth a the problems tron themselves out 
$100/mo 291-1405 
FAVORITE MORNING SHOW HAS TRAVEL ENTHUSIAST NEEDED!!! A NEED XMAS RIDE TO CONNECTICUT RETURNEDIII LISTEN TO THE MID­JELLYBEAN In the qUiet of the night may fantashc opportun1ty lor an outgOing, self­2-BED CAN LEAVE 12/20CALLPAULAT6829 MORNING BREAK EVERY MONDAY MTC our candle always burn,let us never lose 
RECENT DEFENDER GOD
starter who enjoys meeling people. Earn Apt.heat a11 AND FRIDAY FROM lOAM TO 11AM the lessons we nave learned Y.B.B.M. 
FREE VACATIONS & CASH by selling payed.appliances,hardwood ON WSND AM6411
Irs so warm out, who could think of A MAGICIAN our !unfilled SKI & BEACH TRIPS! Call floors,$250 mo.123 s. Eddy 233-6441 Chnstmas? Well. I am. I haven I been (TELEKINESIS LIVES!) The sun 1sn t warm Wilhoul you The sky s 312-871-10701oday! Orwnte. SUN& SKI home 1n almost a year, and I need a nde to A LOVER OF FINE-STUFFEO ANIMALS not as blue w11hout The sun 1sn t warm Wil· 
ADVENTURES. 2256 N. Clark, ChiCago, Room for rent for female grad or law stu­somewhere 1n the Northeast, preferably OBSERVER READERS! (POOKY LIVES!) houut you The sky s not as blue without IL60614. dent in NO Ave Apts $180 plus eleclnc the Philadelphia area. Call T11n at 288-The first general readership meeling 1n ONE HECK OF AN ICE SKATER you. Ltfe here babe ts sad and I know the Call Madeleine at 287-4644 after 1 1. 1he history of the publication w1ll take
1 822 or leave a message at the Observ• HAPPY 19TH YOU DYNAMO YOU!! reason why, for I can·t even smtle wtthout 
OffiCe (239-5313) SEE YOU AT 4:30 you. Y.B.B.M. 
TYPING. Jackie Boggs, 684-8793 place Monday, Dec 6 at 6:30pm. 1n the 
Library Audilonum Do you have ques­Typist Needs Work 277-8534 after 6pm Clean, well kept 3&4 bedroom homes, ap­lions, complaints, suggeslions aboul THE 
To the Italian Texan Thanks for the great 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY M--AT--T!! HAPPY T-break: and h&re s to more good limes BIRTHDAY M--AT-·T!!GUESS WHO! -D1ana 
M-F pliances furnished, gas heat. garages OBSERVER? Come and lei us know 
225.00. 275.00 288-6721 
SENIORS!SENIORS' You better watch IIWSND REMOTESII WHO DEY! 4 room s1ngle, appliances & mBjor u111ities out. you bel1er not pout! Come to the liTHE BEST MUSICII furn1shed, good n1eborhood 150.00 288-Senior Class Chnstmas Party a1 the Tip­liTHE BEST EQUIPMENTII To our dear li«le Connne (a.k a CBF. 
FOR SALE 
LOST/FOUND 
6721 pecanoe Ballroom on December 9. 8-liTHE BEST PRICEII foxene,, bear) Have a tanlast1c 191h USED BOOKS Bought, Sold. Searched 11 PM Sem1-formal at111e. hors d oeuvres. WSND REMOTES ARE AVAILABLE birthday'! Thanks lor mak1ng lh1s year so NEED A FEMALE ROOMMATE, Cute ERASMUS BOOKS Tues-Sun, 12-6 and happy hour pnces TICKETS: FOR SECOND SEMESTER: CALL 9-spectal!! Heres to 3 more hke tt!! We love 
Loft Apt., Good Loca110n. 95 00/MONTH
ONE TIRE JACK WITH THE NAME MAR­1027 E Wayne One Block South of $6 00/couple Sold dunng lunch 1n 239-7425 AND MAKE YOUR you!! The L1ttle Lamb. Hello K11y. Anme 0. GARET ON IT. CALL 288-0725 U11s. 1ncluded. Call234-0824 Eddy-Jefferson Intersection Lafortune on December 6,7. & 8 RESERVATIONS NOW! Megret, M-A. H squared. and Jo 

The Observer Friday, December 3, 1982 -page 9 
Anything possible 
Irish look for itnprovement 
By STEVE LABATE 
Sports Writer 
"Anything is possible," comments Irish hockey coach Charles "Lefty" Smith when asked about this weekend's series against Michigan State. But is it? Consider the follow­ing: 
Notre Dame is 3-9 and tied for last place in the CCHA standings. Meanwhile, the Spartans 12-2 over­all, and 10-2 in the CCHA are just one point behind first place Bowling Green. 
The Spartans have three ofthe top players in the country in all­American goalie Ron Scott, and for­wards Mark Hamway and Newell Brown. 
The Irish have lost their first five games on home ice. The Irish are riding a four-game losing streak after being manhandled last Friday and Saturday nights by Bowling Green by scores of 12-2 and 12-3 respectively. The Spartans have won four straight. 
"Michigan State is an excellent team. They are definitely one of the prime contenders for the CCHA Championship," says Smith. "Scott is brilliant, and the rest of their team is just as talented." 
How good is Ron Scott? The Hock­ey News named him "Outstanding Player" for the 1981-82 season. This year his goals against average is an unbelievable 1.85, while his save percentage is .928. 
The Irish will also have to contend with Mark Hamway, a player that senior Kirt Bjork called, ''a shoe-in for the U.S. Olympic Hockey team in 1984." Hamway leads !\1SU with 16 points. He is just ahead ofjunior cen­ter Newell Brown who has 14 points for the year. 
But you don't look at the other guy's stats. ­
"Right now we can't afford to wor­ry about other teams," says Smith. "We have got to improve on our 
Players to be polled by union 
NEW YORK (AP)-The National Football League's 28 player representatives are to be polled today by the union to offer their latest opinion on the proposed col­lective bargaining agreement before the 1,500 players. 
Those rank-and-file players are likely to vote on it early next week. 
"There is no possibility that the players will vote on Friday (today)," said Ed Garvey, executive director of the union. "The contrac.t will not be ready until sometime early next week." 
When the union and the Manage­ment Council, representing the owners, reached agreement Nov. 16 on the prospective five-year, S 1.6 billion agreement, the player reps voted to pass it along to the rest of the players without recommenda­tion. 
But since then there have been 
numerous changes -clarifications, 
the Management Council says ­
and the player reps will be "making a 
statement" when they vote again, a 
union spokesman said. The reps' 
vote is not binding on the entire 
membership. There were no 
meetings yesterday between the 
two sides. 
jack Donlan, the owners' chief negotiator, has said if the players reject the package the league will "reassess" it and possibly drop the ninth (make-up) game, reduce the playoff field from 16 to the normal lO teams and pull back its bonus of­fer, all of which would reduce the size and number of players' payc­hecks. 
own play first. We must be con­siderably more disciplined than we have been in the past couple of weeks if we hope to have any success at all." 
Through the dog days of Novem­ber, junior center Adam Parsons has been one ofvery few bright spots for the Irish. 
"Adam has come on since the beginning of the year. We demoted him to the fifth line," says Smith. "And instead of pouting about it, he showed his character and has worked his way up to the point where he'll be starting tomorrow night (tonight)." 
Parsons, who has three goals and five assists over the last four games will be joined on the first line by John Higgins and Brent Chapman. Prior to last w~ekend, Parsons cen­tered between Kirt Bjork and John Devoe. 
"Higgins and Chapman were having problems getting on track," explains Smith. "We put the three of them together, so that Higgins through his hustle, could pick them up and get the line going on the right track." 
After last weekend's embarrass­ment, the team is at a crucial point in its season. Either they can gain respectability this weekend or they can fold and write off the season. Smith hopes that it won't be the lat­ter. 
"IfI'm reading them (the players) correctly, their pride has been injured," comments the Irish coach. "If this week's practices are an in­dication, I'll say they will respond positively to last weeks losses." 
However Lefty is not pleased with the upperclassmen as a whole. 
"I don't think we're getting the amount of leadership from the up­perclassmen that is needed. In a time of difficulty, I expect them to come to the front. I hope that they will begin to do so." 
So the Irish will take to the ice at 
8:00 p.m. tonight and again at 2:30 tomorrow afternoon, in hopes ofen­ding their recent slide. 
"This weekend should be a tell tale. I'm very upset with the losses we've had," adds Lefty. "We lost four ofour top six defensemen and it put added pressure on the freshmen. This weekend we will have all ex­cept one (Sean Regan). Anything is possible this weekend." 
PORTABLE TAPE DECKS 
'\Uii<E Cr&11E \_,le'\1 11-.lli<1'\ 
C()IWHIJNIICAilii()N l 
,___..__..,(JllrUCAil~E 
Dec 3 
lfi[?III[)A\~ lfiiiL~\ ~~~1[?111~~ 
The Magic Flute 1'975)1ngmar Bergman Sweden. color 134 m.n ,., Swea,sn wqn Engo~sn suO!I!les ThiS aaaptaliOf1 of Mozarrs opera 1S a lusc,!lus. thorougnly enJOY<: ole · tr,ump"' Mozart s score accompan,f;'O by a Swed1s., vers.1on of ·,ne lyr,cs. supplies lne bacKbone of tn1s tale of love. mag1c ana que~ t as '' fellows a pa1~ of star-crossea lOvers ana an 1mp1sh lJitle ma'1 whose greatest aes ·e ~s to ''na a w1te 
Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum Admission 
2 ~00
.... lr~u ~ ,.-,131ti lr........s­

7 GAMEROOM TOKENS 
·(regularly ,25ea.l 
40 GAMEROOM TOKENS 
offer expires 12/31/82 
Try: 
Joust Donkey Kong  Ms. Pac·Man Moon Patrol  
Qix  Zaxxon  Tron  Dig Dug  
Robotron  Frogger  Tempest  Centipede  

......•...~ .......Putt-Putt Golf & Games ............ . 
REQU. A MORE DURABLETAPE. 
-.. 
,.-·· 
. b 
. ~·: .. 
t--­
;_. ~ I~ ­
.. "'-'11-.. 
M.-~~ Jll!lff!I'J' 
~ ~· 
'. -~"'j: . / .. ·t~·-. ~· '
,...... ~ ~-~-~---.
-.--,. . ~.-->-._.-. --:, • . 
-·~)."' ·-' ~"" .. ,-;::
-..~ . ._1 ~... · .....,.I 
_........~ "'\ 
..; -. 
,..... ··'l_, -... 
#'< -·• of': \,~*o.i!f~t ~ i ~HI 
l'vl;\.xell cassettes are built to standards up to 60~,;, higher than the 
indu~lly calls for. So they can take the mugh-and-tumble of the slopes. 
And subfreezing temperatures that can cause ordinary cassettes t1 > 
i<\Jn. MaxelL It isn't just for apres-ski. 
ITS WORTH IT 

259-4171 3615 N. Main Mishawaka 
(lake Angela to Edison , 2 miles to Main 
maxell® m 
Coupon Special 
10 UD-XL II $27.77 EXP. 12-18-82 
audio 
1peciali1t1 401 n. michigan 
Troll's Cords &Gifts University Commons Shopping Center South Bend, lndiono 277-0266 
-J/1, -J 1P(( ttr fr·Pntr·r: ~011 t0 <"_!nuth +?r·nrl nnrl f>11\ dtnp. _\11) -<"_!~ ll(' ':t1,r/r 1,t,:.{N·u(t11 )_o\"''lt'lf.J;;,q": (Ill(( (illj>ff>IJ'I': \IN ill (I :2(\'i; r/i'!l'f>lllif ltif(l ~ 1) llt1f>il~{l(lllf lit!· ijlll\. ,'~'llf:'-~l~ 
.. 
.. 
_ 
I '
r 
I 
I 
' ~ 
I 
' ~ 
I' 
I 
I 
~ 
I 
r 
I 
.... 
The Observer 
Friday, December 3, 1982 -page 10 
----------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

In second year 
Wotnen's switnming rebuilds 
By THERON ROBERTS 
Sports Writer 
After splashing to an H-.3 record in its inaugural season as a varsity sport last year, the Notre Dame women's swimming team and Coach Dennis Stark open the season tomorrow against Evansville. 
Gone from last year's squad are five of the seven swimmers who qualified for the nationals last win­ter. The Irish finished 21st in the As­sociation ofIntercollegiate Athletics for Women Division llJ champion­The Irish wrestling team was well on top ofthings last nightas it ships last March. 
scored easy victories over Valparaiso and Concordia. jeffBlumb Stark must replace all-Americans, 
gives more details in his story on the back page. (Photo by Scott Jeanine Blatt, Kathy Latino, and Terri 
Bower) Schindler, who placed in the SOO-m 
freestyle, 100-m butterfly, and SO-m breastroke, respectively. All-American Lee Ann Brislawn (backstroke) and co-captain Rita Harrington are gone also. 
"We lost a number of quality swimmers, and until this team has some competitive experience. you really can't say how good we're going to be," says Stark. "Right now we have a lot question marks." 
Returning are senior co-captains Jean Murtagh and Sheila Roesler, whom Stark expects to make valuable contributions. Both qualified for last year's nationals. Murtagh is the top returning freestyle sprinter. Roesler, who has competed .in international age-group swimming. will swim the but­terfly and long-distance freestyle. 
Other returning swimmers and their specialties are senior Debbie Karling (breaststroke and freestyle), juniors Gina Gamboa and Karen Korowicki (butterfly and freestyle), sophomores Colleen Carey (freestyle and individual medley), joAnne Pearl (I.M. and butterfly), and Ann Marie Furleigh (diving). 
Coach Stark will have a few new faces, swimmers untested in col­lc:giate competition. Expected to play a role in Notre Dame's potential successes are sophomore transfer Raili Tikka (backstroke), freshmen Vennette ,Cochiolo ( I.M. and breastroke). and · joan Burke (distance freestyle). 
"The girls are really enthusiastic and are working hard, but I'm not going to be overly optimistic until we've had some meets," Stark com­mented. 
The Irish begin their first season in NCAA Division I competition tomorrow at 2 p.m. against Evansville at the Rockne pool. 
• .. UCLA 
continuedfrom page 12 
sists. Holton, a senior and this year's captain, will be the first guard offthe bench. 
"UCLA's guards are among the best we'll see this year," says Phelps. "They're very quick and are good, solid shooters." 
At forward, UCLA has 6-7 senior, Darren Daye. As last year's sixth man, Daye averaged eight points and four rebounds a game. Kenny Fields, a 6-7 junior, will fill the other for­ward spot. Another Bruin who started all 27 games, Fields averaged 
12.1 points and almost six rebounds a game. 
"Daye and Fields have come on to make up an excellent front line," says Phelps. "Daye has bulked up and with their quickness and scoring ability, they can hurt you." 
At center for the Bruins is 7-0 cen­ter Stuart Gray. Only a sophomore, he started in all but one of the Bruin's games last season, averaging nearly five points and five rebounds a game. Classmate Brad Wright will spell Gray. 
"UCLA is a very talented ba~ket­ball team," says Phelps. "They have an excellent bench that lets them play eight solid players. 
"Because of their quickness, we don't want to get into a running game with them, but, if they press, we'll be ready. The best way to beat a press is to take it to score. Ifwe can control the game tempo, we can control UCLA. 
"Our freshmen now have a new perspective on college basketball," he continued. "They've played against one of the best teams in bas­ketball, and we still have two games left this week against top teams. They'll mature and get berter as we use these teams to help us find our weaknesses, and turn them into strengths. They'll make mistakes. but we have to be patient and watch them grow." 
With Tom Sluby still nursing a sore foot (possible stress fracture), and Dan Duff not providing the second outside shooter the team needs, Phelps will probably stan freshman joe Price tomorrow along with Ken Barlow, Tim Kempton, Varner, and Paxson. 
It will be three freshmen for the Irish against three veterans of the Final Four ( Daye, Holten, and Fos­ter) for UCLA. The stage is set for the second jewel ofthe "Triple Crown". The players are ready. Predictions are useless. No matter who your per­sonal favorite is, you can only watch, hope, and marvel. 

IheO~~er~===================================== 
Friday, Decen1ber 3, 1982 -page· 11
Weekend 
Doonesbury 
Simon 
Fate 

ITS TH~ STAR! OF A 
WHAT'S TltAT ON 
~EARO, WHAT Do 'tOLL 

The Daily Crossword 

--Garry Trudeau 

Jeb Cashin 
Photius 

ACROSS 1 Bicycle part • 6 Append 
9 FOR's pet 13 Spurn 14 Judge 16 Land of 
blarney 17 The Met, for one 19 Clarinet or oboe 
20 Nevada tourist town 
21 Spanish hero 22 Sister of23A 23 Prince, for short 
Thursday's Solution 
25 Binocular 28 Nolonger chic 
29 Metabolic disease, for short 
30 Chosen: Fr. 31 Oilmen 34 Afternoon 
nap 39 Gertrude Stein words 40 Long, long 
time 42 Military unit 
43 Business 
agent 45 Sort 47-king 49 Timetable 
abbr. 

· Campus 
•I2 
p.m. -Lecture, "Privacy as Autonomy," Dr. Joel Feinberg, IOI Law School 

•12:
15 p.m. -Italian Club Lunch, for All Italian­speaking Faculty, Faculty Dining Room 

• 
3:15 p.m. -Workshop, "An Analysis of Home Energy Needs,"' Alfred Morrissey, 33I O'Shaughnessy 

•5:I5 
p.m. -Mass and Supper, Bulla Shed, Sponsored by Campus Ministry 


•: p.m. -Swimming, NO Mens Relays, vs . Wayne, Rockne Memorial .,, 9. and II p.m. -Film, "On Golden Pond," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by NDSU, S I 
•7:30 
p.m. -Hockey, NO vs. Michigan State, Fieldhouse 

•7:30 
p.m. -Film, "The Magic Flutt:,"' Anqenberg Auditorium, S2 

•9:30 
p.m. -NAZZ, Et AI Saturday, Dec. 4 

•11 
a.m. -Basketball, NO Women vs. St Francis, ACC Arena 

•2 
p.m.-Swimming, NO Women vs. Evansville. Rockne Memorial 

•2:30 
p.m. -Hockey, NO vs. Michigan State, Fieldhouse 

•7, 
9, II p.m. -Film, "On Golden Pond," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by NDSU, ~I 

•8 
p.m. -Basketball, NO Men vs. UCLA, ACC Arena 

•8:30 
p.m. -Play, "Juno and the Paycock,"' St. Mary's College Little Theatre, Sponsored by NO College ofArts and Letters 

•9 
p.m. -Band, "Duke Tomatoe," Chautauqua Coffeehouse 

•9 
p.m.-NAZZ,John Kennedy and john Sase Sunday, Dec. 5 

•2 
p.m. -Students Against Drunk Drivers Meeting, Keenan's Hofman Lounge 


T.V. Tonight 
6p.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
34  3-2-1 Contact  
6:30p.m.  16  NBC Nightly News  
22  CBS News  
28  ABC's World News Tonight  
34  Over Easy  
7p.m.  16  M0 A0 S0 H  
22  Laverne and Shirley  
28  joker's Wild  
34  The MacNeiVLehrer Report  
7:30p.m.  16  All in the Family  
22  Family Feud  
28  Tic Tac Dough  
34  Straight Talk  
8p.m.  16  The Powers of Mathew Star  
22  Dukes of Hazzard  
28  Benson  
34  Washington Week in Review  
8:30p.m.  28  The New Odd Couple  
34  Wall Street Week  
9p.m.  16  Knight Rider  
22  Dallas  
28  Greatest American Hero  
34  Inside Business Today  
9:30p.m.  34  Religion and Social Issues  
10p.m.  16  Remington Steele  
22  Falcon Crest  
28  The Quest  
l1p.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness Nc"s  
28  Newswatch 28  
34  The Dick Cavett Show  
11:30p.m.  16  Tonight Show  
22  C.B.S. Late Movie  
28  ABC News Nightline  
!2:30p.m.  16  SCTV Comedy Network  

., 
-1: 
so According to 51 Wagner 
product 56 Nosegay 57 Tatter's 
product 58 -Ia Ia 59 Journey 61 Farm part 62 Western 66 Whitelaw 
or Ogden 
67 Heraldic term 68 Stoneof 
many hues 69 Whirlpool 70 "-Stoops 
to Conquer'' 71 "Among thy green-" 
DOWN 1 Signon 
Broadway 2 Vitality 3 Mannerof 
functioning 4 People of 
New Mexico 5 Dash 6 Fuss 7 Lowcard 8 Yen 9 Savage 
10 Game site 11 Legal word 12 Aconcagua's 
range 
15 Bronze stars 18 English philosopher 23 Musical 
endings 24 Hie 26 Undiluted 27 Segovia's 
instrument 
29 Groupof brilliant people 
32 Hallucino­
gen 33 Help! 35 Slip 36 Housewife's 
addiction 37 Lugs 38 Mimicry 41 Approach 44 Dress 46 Chatter 48 Hangar 
adjuncts 51 Dazzle 52 Hastened 53 Caustic 54 Wanting 55 Venus' 
neighbor 56 Hamelin savior 60 LBJ's 
son-in-law 63 Notice 64 Whiskey 65 Kalineand 
Smith 
The Notre Dame Student Union presents: the Midwest's hottest band Tickets AuailableDuke T umatoe at Student Unionand the All-Star Frogs r:,:~~~ Saturday, December 4 10oo s JJ 30 $2 In Chautaugua La Fortune Ballroom  


r----~-­

r Ebben, Dougherty star 
Irish top Butler for first victory 
By MIKE RICCARDI straight to take the lead. Notre Dame fouled out with 14 points, and Ruth ..._ Sports Writer allowed its comfortable margin to Kaiser, who added five assists. Butler become a 40-35 halftime deficit. The connected on 15 of 22 foul shots to 
The Notre Dame women's basket­Irish were outscored 21-6 in the stay in the game. ball team got a couple of monkeys final 8:29 as two three-second calls "They have to realize the dif­off its back by winning last night's and a five-second violation were ference between aggressive play and home opener against Butler Univer­whistled. violence," said DiStanislao. "But sity, 80-73. "They abandoned the game plan," that's the kind ofinitiative they gotta 
The win was Notre Dame's first, said coach Mary DiStanislao. "When take. They came out with fire in their coming after a pair of losses in last we kept two in the high post, and eyes." 
week's Orange Crush Tournament. two in the low post, we took charge. Next for the Irish is St. Francis Col­It was also the first time that ND had In the second half we stayed in (the lege from joliet, Ill., the defending Il­ever beaten Butler. The Irish had game plan) and built a lead." linois NAIA Division II state lost to the Lady Bulldogs in each of Three Lynn Ebben baskets keyed a champion. Senior Chris Prieboy, a 5­the last two years. 10-point Notre Dame spurt which 6 guard who topped the team last 
"Last year (Notre Dame's 67-58 gave the Irish a 54-48 lead. Ebben, a year in scoring ( 19.9 ppg), assists, loss at BU's Hinkle Fieldhouse) was 5-11 freshman guard, led the Notre (97), steals ( 105) and blocked shots the only impression a lot of my Dame scoring column with 22 ( 24), leads the Lady Saints, who friends got of the team," said In­points, 16 in the second half. Ebben return all five starters from last dianapolis native Mary Beth gunned in six second-half shots, year's team. Scheuth, who scored 14 points last mainly 15-to 20-foot jumpers, to Notre Dame will play St. Francis 
lo night against the Division II power key the Irish offense. tomorrow morning at 11 in the ACC. from her home town. Co-captain Debbi Hensley quar­
"Needless to say, it's really pleas­terbacked the offense as the Irish ing .. .I guess we got a little pulled away late in the second half, IRISH ITEMS -Attendance for revenge." and scored her first points of the the home opener was announced as 
But the issue wasn't decided until season, finishing with four. 222 ... The turnover menace seems late in the second half. Ruth Kaiser's "I was grateful for the leadership to have been alleviated. The Irish on­jumper from the foul line allowed of Debbi Hensley down the stretch," ly coughed up the ball 12 times, and the Irish to take charge, 70-69, on said Mary D. "We have some players just four in the second half, a fact the game's 13th and final lead who are interested in giving what it which amazed Dougherty. "That's change. When center Shari Matvey takes to win. This win is a great terrific," she said. "I don't think we tied up Butler forward Sue Morris, step." ever gotten it (turnovers) under won the jump ball and hit the layup Bulldog guard Barb Skinner 20" ... Carrie Bates started at center at the offensive end, Notre Dame scored a career-high 30 to keep But­and pulled down I 0 boards ... had breathing room at 7 4-71, and ler in the ballgame down the stretch. Injured freshman Trena Keys took guard Laura Dougherty's 21-foot Forward Elza Purvlicis swept 12 statistics for Mary D. When asked prayer sealed the win at 78-73. rebounds and center Beth how her sprained ankle felt, she said 
Dougherty, a 5-10 sophomore, Piepenbrink scored 12 in support­"I'm ready." If the doctors tell DiS­dished out 12 assists to set a Notre ing roles. tanislao that the 6-1 forward has ful­Dame record. The record was held The Irish women played an ag­ly recovered, she could play in 
·• by Notre Dame legend Maggie Lally, gressive second half as Butler Saturday's game. 
who tallied nine two years ago reached the bonus situation with against Saint Mary's. Dougherty also 15:45 left in the game. scored 12 herself "They have to realize the dif­
Historyof upsets 
"I was finding everybody in the ference between being aggressive first half," said Dougherty. She got and being violent," said DiStanislao. seven feeds as the Irish women "But that's the kind of initiative 
rolled to an early 29-19 lead. they've gotta take." 
ND, UCLAresumeclassic rivalry
Butler, last year's Indiana AlAW Foul trouble curtailed good ef­state champion, reeled off 11 forts on the parts of Schueth, who Williams scored 22 points, giving
By RICH O'CONNOR In 1971, Austin Carr scored 46 Sports Writer points, and the Irish beat UCLA 89-Digger his first win in Pauley 
82. It was the only loss ofthe year for Pavilion. The final score was 66-63. 
The Irish have not had any time to the Bruins who went on to wia the The win ended UCLA's 11 5-game feel sorry for themselves since Wed­national championship. non-conference home winning
Fischer, Krug lead 
nesday's loss to Kentucky. The In 1974, current assistant coaches streak. It was also the Bruins first reason? Sixth-ranked UCLA. Gary . Brokaw anll john Shumate nonleague loss in Pauley. One of college basketball's most scored 25 and 24 poims respective­][n 1979, then-freshman john Pax­
heated rivalries tips off for the thir­ly, and Notre Dame ended an R8-son hit four foul shots in the last five tieth time tomorrow at 8 p.m. when game UCLA winning streak, seconds to give Notre Dame a 77-74 ByJEFF BLUMB night. the Bruins visit the ACC. basketball's longest ever, 71-70. victory. 
Wrestlers to dualwin 
Sports Writer "Scott has been wrestling well all 
This series, more than any other, In 1975, Adrian Dantley scored 32 The magic has been wearing thin season," remarked Bruno. "And he 
has helped build Notre Dame's points and the Irish won 84-78. in recent years, however. Notre Raising their season record to 4-0, was originally beaten out by (Doug) 
reputation as giant-killers. Digger When Dantley scored 30 the next Dame has lost two one-point gamesthe Notre Dame wrestlers ripped Skinner." 
Phelps' squads have stunned the year, the Irish upset the Bruin~> for to UCLA in the last two years byValparaiso 47-6 and Concordia 57-0 Bentivenga now holds the fourth 
powerhouse Bruins more than a few the third consecutive year, 95-85. scores of 51-50 and 48-47. The last night in the ACC Pit. best Irish record climbing to 9-5. 
times. Later that season, Don "Duck" Bruins also handed the Irish their 
For Irish coach Brother joseph Freshmanjohn Krug continued to largest defeat in a home game last Bruno, C.S.C., it was the first time he co-lead the team in victories, pos­
season-26 points.
had ever coached a team that shut ting impressive 14-4 and 11-0 deci­
Thus, it has been three years since out its opponent. Besides blanking sions. "KrugMan" now has a season 
Notre Dame has beaten the Bruins. 
the Cougars of Concordia, Bruno mark of 11-2, while he wrestles up 
Seniors Paxson, Bill Varner, and Tim came within one forfeit ofdoing the two classes at 190. 
Andree are the only players on the same to Valpo, the six points the Senior Mark Fisher raised his 
team to experience the joy and theyresult of a decision to rest 16 7 lb. season record to match Krug's as he would like to have the same ex­
by forfeit and injury default.
Phil Baty. won 
perience again, but they will really There were a number ofoutstand­Late in the first period, Fisher turned 
have to work at it. 
ing individual performances turned a vicious flip on his Valpo foe. The 
UCLA Forward Mike Sanders was in by the Irish. Football player Mike match was stopped immediately and 
the only player lost from last year's first collegiate never continued as a result ofa neck
Golic, a time 21 -6 team that was ineligible for 
wrestler, had by far the most injury to the 126 pounder from Val­post-season competition because of 
remarkable night. paraiso. 
various rules violations. It is now 
Winning his first match in the back off probation and is given
Adding icing to the Irish victory a heavyweight division by forfeit, dt:cent shot at the national cham­cake was the strong showing of co­Golic's turn didn't come up again pionship because ofits talent and ex­captain Don Heintzelman, who isuntil the very last match ofthe night. 
perience.
just back from arthroscopic surgery.
Facing a highly regarded Valparaiso "Rocket" Rod Foster againAfter pinning his Concordia op­wrestler, Golic wasted little time, anchors the Bruins in the backcourt.
ponent, Heintzelman came from be­pinning his opponent in only 14 The 6-1 senior set an NCAA recordhind to win in his Valpo match 9-5.
seconds. 
last year for free throw accuracy, as"The kid had ripped him last yearThe old record for quickest pin by 
ht: hit 95 of his 100 attempts. Atoo," boasted Bruno. 
an Irish wrestler had been 19 three-year starter, Foster has 
seconds, set by Mike Fanning back in Hoping to do as well, the Irish averaged 11.4 points per game in his the '71-'72 season. "He knew he grapplers go to the Indiana State 
career. needed a quick pin because he Sycamore Tournament this tomor­guard will be
joining Foster at wasn't in shape," observed a pleased row. "The competition will be up a 
Ralph Jackson and Michael Holton. Bruno. And to think that Golic hig notch," stated Bruno. With little 
jackson, a 6-2 junior who started all hadn't really wrestled since he took rest, Monday the Irish will face a 
27 UCLA games last season,.... third in Ohio as a high schooler. tough Kentucky team that is now on 
averaged 6.4 points per game while Pinning both of his opponents in a swing through Iowa going up 
dishing out a team-leading Ill as-the first period, I 50 lb. Scott Ben­against four powerhouses of that 
See UCLA, page 10 
tivenga also shined brightly last state. 

l_ 
