Painfully frigid -page 7
I I I 


VOL. XVI, NO. 78 an independem srudem newspaper serving notre dame and sa.im mary's WEDNESDAY,JANUARY 20, 1982 
'Deterioration continues' 
Reagan disputes martialla 
WASHINGTON {AP)-President Reagan said yesterday that while U.S. sanctions against the Warsaw and Soviet governments have had some impact, life for the Polish people continues to deteriorate under mar­tial law and "we're not going to wait forever for Improvement." 
The president, conducting his seventh White House news con­ference just a day before his first an­niversary in office, also accepted responsibility for the administrative 
decision to grant tax-exempt status to private schools which racially dis­criminate. 
Asked whether his staff was to blame for that widely criticized step, he replied, "No one put anything over on me ... The buck stops at my desk." 
Asked about burgeoning un­employment, Reagan said, "I have the greatest sympathy" for those out of jobs, but "on the other hand, comparing this to the beginning of our term, there are a million people more working than there were in 1980 ..." 
dut the government's own figures don't square with that. The Bureau of Labor Statistics said total employ­ment was 97,188,000 in December, down more than a half-million from the month Reagan took office -last January -and also 94,000 fewer than December 1980. 
Reagan said interest and inflation rates are on the way down, and "I'm quite sure we're going to see an up­swing in the economy." 
The president did not spell out ­nor was he asked -just what positive effects he believes were produceJ by U.S. sanctions on trade, aviation and fishing rights against the Polish and Soviet governments in the wake of the Polish military crackdown. 
"I think they have had an effect, although there's no question the situation in Poland is still deteriorat­ing," he said. "They have tried to present it as moderating; it isn't." 
Reagan said he has had "a lengthy communication" from Pope John Paul II, himself a Pole, and "he ap­proves what we have done so far." 
"And yet we are not going to wait forever for improvement in the 


PC extends invitatio to Provost 0 'Meara 
By ROGER WILKE 
News Staff 

In an attempt to improve relations between student government and the administration, the Hall Presidents Council decided last night to invite Provost Timothy 0'Meara to next week's HPC meeting. 
The HPC members also discussed Fr. Van Wolvlear's rejection of the keg proposal, expressing concern o.ver his reasoning regarding the decision. 
Members noted that some ofVan Wolvlear's statements about the proposal were "ridiculous" and are considering alternative actions on the proposal. The HPC will not, however, appeal the decision to higher University offices. 
"Basically, the HPC is wondering why the Student Senate, the HPC, and even the Campus Life Council are unable to communicate with the Student Affairs Office," HPC President Mike Martin said. 
In other business, Dillon Hall was presented with the Novem· her/December Andy Sowder Memorial Award for hall excellence and spirit. The HPC cited Dillon's football championship as just one example of their hall spirit. Farley was a close second in the bid for the award. 
Andy Schaefer, who is organizing Mardi Gras, announced that Ho­ly Cross at Saint Mary's has the most dancers to date for the upcom· ing Dancethon with 48 participants. Howard Hall has the fewest participants with three. Thus far, there are 498 dancers signed up for the February event. 
situation there," he declared. "We have those steps that we can take." 
A State Department official, asked to expand upon the president's statement, said only that "things could be a lot worse" in Poland ifit weren't for the U.S. sanctions. He asked not to be named. 
On the issue of lifting the Internal Revenue Service's ban against tax exemptions for schools that dis­criminate on the basis of race, Reagan said, "I initiated it." But he acknowledged that the announce­ment had stirred a political furor, which he blamed on misinterpreta­tion. 
Reagan asserted there was no basis in law for the IRS ban, even though "I am opposed with every fiber ofmy being to discrimination." Aweek after the IRS announcement, Reagan asked Congress to outlaw tax exemptions for discriminatory schools. 
The president rejected the notion that American business has yet to respond to his economic incentives, saying: "I think we're just seeing a little caution. They want to make sure before they proceed." He said "I know that a great many industries have the plans all ready for moder­nization and expansion." 
Reagan said his administration was cracking down on news leaks 
See REAGAN, page 4 
Potomac River last week is hoisted onto a barge Monday after­noon. As it was lifted, a bodyfell from the tail, but salvage workers could notfind the cockpit recorders. See related focus below. ( AP Laserphoto) 
Cockpit lifted 


Divers continue crash site search 
ByJAMES H. RUBIN 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON Recovery teams sifted the mucky bottom of the Potomac River yesterday, still groping for the flight recorders that may unravel the crash of an Air Florida jetliner. And a survivor had a new candidate for a much­acclaimed hero ofthe disaster. 

Navy divers, confident they know the location of the Boeing 737's flight data and voice recorders, no longer heard the homing devices on the electronic boxes as they sifted 



Thatcher asksprison for rapists 
LONDON (AP) -Judges should persons are found guilty should they sentence most convicted rapists to commit it." automatic prison terms, Prime Min-The issue flared natonwide after a ister Margaret Thatcher said, disclosure that Scottish authorities responding to public concern over took no action against three men the recent lenient handling of rape who allegedly raped a woman and cases by British courts and police. slashed her with a razor blade. Else-
The lord chief justice, Lord Lane, where, authorities had set a rapist said only in "wholly exceptional cir-free with a fine and accused the cumstances" should a convicted young victim of "cotributory rapist not be jailed. negligence," for having hitched a 
He did not say what such cir-· ride home after a late-night dance at cumstances were, but did spell out an air base. factors to be taken into account Now lawmakers, women's or­when determining sentences, such ganizations and the press are as: use of excessive violence, demanding changes in legal weapons, and the age of the victim. procedures. 
The prime minister told the The controversy surfaced earlier House ofCommon~: "it is absolutely this month when a Crown Court set vital that women have confidence in free a confessed rapist with a fine of the ability ofthe law to protect them $100. t Nearly 50 members ofParlia­against this violation and to see that ment signed a House of Commons motion advising the Lord Chancel­lor -england's highest legal officer -to dismiss Judge Bertrand Ric­hards from the bench because ofthe lenient sentence he passed. 
Shortly thereafter, it was reported that in Scotland, three teen-agers accused of raping a Glasgow woman escaped prosecution after a psyc­hiatrist said the woman was too dis­turbed to testify although the woman said t yesterday that despite the psychiatric report, she was prepared to take the stand. 
The deJ?ate on the treatment of rape vtcums intensified when British officers ofthe Thames Valley police force gruffiy disputed a woman's rape complaint. 
"After this will women still report a rape?" asked the London Daily Express. 

through wreckage both in the cock­pit area and in another section ofthe fuselage. 
WEDNESDA"'tiS!


-Focus 
"The fact the pingers died this morning hasn't changed the position ofthem any," said Lt. Cmdr. Stephen Delaplane, head of the diving opera· tion. "We got a pile of debris down there and they are located SOfTie­where in that debris. We have to keep moving the debris, so we'll get to them." 
Asked whether that meant that the devices had stopped sending locating signals, Delaplane replied testily: "watch my lips. I said we did not listen for the pingers this morn· ing." 
The unrecovered recorders are considered vital to pinpointing the cause of last Wednesday's crash of the Florida-bound plane from Na­tional Airport port. 74 people aboard the plane died, as did four who were on the bridge struck by the twin-engine jet. 
Police said three bodies were pulled from the river yesterday, leaving 18 still in the water. 
The cockpit ofthe plane was lifted from the frozen river and placed on the middle span of the 14th Street Bridge, but the instrument panel fell back into the river. 
Crews tried to haul up a section of the fuselage, but its jagged edges cut through a strap, and the section fell back into the river. The aircraft had 
struck a separate span, nearest Na­
tional Airport, shortly after takeoff 
last Wednesday. 
Delaplane said another eight days 
might be required in the operation 
but even then "there's no absolute 
guarantee we're going to recover all 
the bodies. 
Helicopter rescuers have 
described a man who drowned after 
selflessly passing a life-ring to one 
passenger after another. One of the 
five survivors of the crash, Joseph 
Stiley, said yesterday he believes 
that man was Theodore Smolen, 48, 
ofGaithersburg, Md. 
Stiley spoke to reporters from a wheelchair at the National Hospital for Orthopedics and Rchabilitatio11, in Arlington, Va. 
There had been speculation that Arland D. Williams of Atlanta might have been the passenger who sacrificed himself while helping five others to safety. Autopsies con­ducted on 46 bodies recovered through Sunday showed Williams to have been the only one to have drowned. 
Stiley said the man he believes was Smolen was clinging to the inside portion of a piece of the tail section directly in front of him. He said that the man, who eventually drowned, was strapped into a seat. 
The survivor declared himself "almost but not certainly positive" that it was Smolen, a Fairchild In­dustries employee whose bpdy had yet to be recovered from the river. 
However, Bert Hamilton, 40, an­other Fairchild employee aboard the plane, said he was "reasonably sure It was not Ted." 
-~------~­

News Brie -s 
By The Observer and The AssociatedPress 

David Cope, a Notre Dame senior, was assaulted last night by three black youths at the intersection ofEddy and Cedar Streets. According to Cope, he was riding his bike when the youths ap­proached him, ordered him off his bike and physically attacked him. Police happened upon the scene and apprehended two of the three attackers. A South Bend Police Department spokesman refused to comment on the incident saying only that such silence was officially a "new policy." -The Observer 
A car fire at the corner of Notre Dame Ave. and Dorr Road was extinguished Sunday night by Campus Security. The Vehicle, a 1981 Dodge Aspen, was driven by Elizabeth A. Beard of Mishawaka. The fire was caused by a catalytic , :onverter malfunction, according to Notre Dame fire officials. Damage to the car was assessed at $250.00. -The Observer 
A 17-year-old deaf and mute Fort Wayne, Indiana, girl will be tried as an adult for the death ofanother deafgirl and injuries of two family members sustained in a fire. Allen Superior Court Judge Robert L. Hines ruled Monday that Kimberly McDowell will be treated as an adult on murder and arson charges stemming from a house fire at Miss McDowell's foster home in Fort Wayne last july. A witness testified at a hearing last week that Miss McDowell wanted to kill her foster father, Robert Muller, because she did not like having to consider him her "father." Muller is a Lutheran minister and insurance agent. Lillian T. Mohler, 14, who was in the process of being adopted by Muller and his wife, Barbara, was killed in the fire. Mrs. Muller and a 4-year-old foster child were severely burned and otherfamily members suffered lesser injuries, authorities said. -AP 
An explosion tore through an Oklahoma elementary school yesterday and authorities said as many as 30 children were injured. There were unconfirmed reports that a gas leak sparked the blast. Students were being evacuated at the time the explosion oc­curred and several Oklahoma Natural Gas Company trucks were on the scene. Ambulances and law enforcement officers rushed to the scene ofthe blast at the Star Elementary School in Spencer, just east of Oklahoma City. A reporter on the scene said about 10 children were lying on the sidewalk being treated for injuries. Students com­ing out of the school were reported to have cuts on their arms and heads. The Star school is part of the Oklahoma City School District, 
but is located in Spencer. -AP 
After twO Weeks of testimony in Wayne B. Williams' murder trial, prosecutors have begun introducing the disputed evidence that they say is a cornerstone of their case -microscopic fibers found on the bodies of the two victims. State crime lab microanalyst Richard Ernest took the witness stand late Monday to identify four packages offibers and hairs removed from Williams' car with a special vacuum tool during a June 3 search. Williams, a 23­year-old free-lance photographer and aspiring talent scout, is accused ofmurdering Nathaniel Cater, 27, andJimmy Ray Payne, 21, and dumping their bodies into the Chattahoochee River. Cater and Payne were among 28 young blacks whose deaths here during a 22-month period sparked one ofthe most intensive police investiga­tions in U.S. history. There have been no arrests in the 26 other 
killin~s. -AP 
Strict training to keep their eyes only on the plane next to them may have led three pilots of an elite Air Force stunt squad to blindly follow the lead of a fourth and slam into the Nevada desert after a 400 mph dive. "Normally, he (the leader) is the only one looking where he's going," said Air Force Sgt. Dick Conner. "We don't know whether it was a mid-air collision or a case offollow the leader into the ground," he said, adding that it may be several weeks before investigators make a determination. "It's one of the pos­sibilities," Conner said ofwitnesses reports that the planes slammed into the desert. He said it would take a trained observer to tell what had happened because the planes were flying so fast, about 350 knots. The Thunderbirds' commander, Maj. Norman L. Lowry III, died along with the three other pilots in Monday's accident during practice. Besides Lowry, 37, of Radford, Va., killed were Capt. Willie Mays, 32, of Ripley, Tenn.; Capt. Joseph Peterson, 32, of Tuskegee, Ala.; Capt. Mark E. Melancon, 31, ofDayton, Ohio. -AP 
Tomorrow night at 9:00p.m., members of the Notre Dame Alumni board will visit the dormitories to speak with students about student life, campus issues, and the Alumni Office's Summer Job Placement Program, now in its second year. The visit will consist of a fifteen to twenty minute presentation followed by a question and answer period. The dorms have been broken down into groups and will meet in the following locations: Holy Cross, Carroll, Lyons, Morrissey -Morris­sey; Howard, Pangborn, Fisher, Badin -Badin; St. Ed's, Lt;wis, Cavanaugh, Zahm -Zahm; Keenan, Stanford,Breen-Philips, Farley -Farley; Grace, Flanner, Pasquerilla -Flanner. Off-Campus stu­dents are encouraged to meet in Walsh or Flanner. -The Observer 
Chance, today, of occasional snow and brieffreezing drizzle. High in the low and mid 30s. Occasional snow likely, tonight. Lows in the low to mid 20s. Thursday, chance ofrain orsnow. High in the mid 30s to about 40. Probability ofprecipitation 
,40 percent today and 70 percent tonight. 
------~~-~----------~------------------·----------. 
Wednesday,January 20, 1982-page 2 
Acknowledgement ofignorance 
Undoubtedly, it will be one of the largest constitu­
tional controversies ever seen. The Human Rights 
Amendment has been introduced into Congress and 
will soon become one ofthe biggest fights ofthis politi­
cal year. Already, groups are forming in support and op­
position to this amendment prohibiting abortion in this 
country. 

In fact, quite recently I received an unsolicited letter 
from Planned Parenthood and their patron, Katherine 
Hepburn asking for support for their efforts opposing 
this law-to-be. In reading their letter I realized how 
much really was at stake in this controversy. 
Throughout the letter, Planned Parenthood referred to those supporting the Human Rights Amendment as "people who hold deep religious beliefs" who wish to "foist (their) personal religious beliefs· on the rest of us." I am not one with any deep religious beliefs, at least any which are conventional. I am Catholic, but that has not played a major part in the way I have made up my mind on this issue. I hope that I have used my common sense. 
The decision to have or perform an abortion has al­ways been a decision that has been allowed or prohibited by a law. As all know, these laws and their interpretations have changed greatly over the past few years. The absolute understanding and inter­pretation of such simple words as human and life have befuddled this issue since its conception AS an issue. Unfortunately, with as much science background as I have and wish to have, I really can't add any insight to providing a clear defini­tion for these words. I really can't scientifically say or prove where human life begins. 
And neither can any scien­tist or laymen. WE, AS IN­TELliGENT AS WE ARE, REALLY DO NOT KNOW. The issue of ignorance about defining the start of human life has never really entered into the arguments pro or against abortion. Luckily, President Reagen just yesterday brought this issue into light at his news con­ference. After all the debate, after all the research, and after all the millions of abortions performed, man can still not define what is meant by human life and where in the process ofhuman gestation this life begins. 
Ignorance, most certainly, is frightening and must be corrected. But our understanding and final answers on this matter are far away. Thereore, we have only our common sense to rely on at the present time. Since we do not know when life begins, the only possible, humane, and logical assumption is really making no as­sumption at all. No one can ARBITRARILY define life as beginning at two weeks, fourteen weeks, or nine months. Any decision on_ defining a time when life begins must be as scientifically absolute as possible. 
Thus, we must simply say that abortions are not to be 
allowed until we can PROVE when human life begins. 
Until further evidence can substantiate a specific point 

during gestation that a fetus becomes a human being, we can only safely assume that human life begins at con­ception. 
The answers to all ofthe questions surrounding abor­tion will be found in defining human life and where it begins. The questions of freedom of choice, women's prerogative, and the like are consequently absurd in this light. Iflife is proven to to begin at conception, the choice boils down to whether to commit pre-meditated murder or not. If life begins at conception, there are no choices, since none will exist. Arbitrarily stating that life commences at any time after conception is such a tremendous gamble with human life. No one has the right to make such an ignorant gamble. We must simply say that conception is the point where human life 
begins. We cannot assume otherwise; there is too much at stake to lose when the final answers are someday revealed. 
The belief that life begins at conception is arbitrary. There is no real, hard scien­tific evidence to prove it beyond a shadow ofa doubt. Yet it does not involve any assumptions which later might be found to be mur­derous as new knowledge on human life is presented. To say life begins at concep­tion might be shown to be 
wrong in the future (although I doubt it), but at least the fact that we were wrong will be a knowledge 

with which we can live. 
Observer notes·-----------------, 
Observer corrections: 
The organizational meeting for all persons in­terested in running for the Student Senate will be Thursday at 8 p.m., following the 7 p.m. meeting for those interested in running for Student Body President/Vice President. 
Archbishop Raymond Hunthausen will speak Friday, January 29 ·at 7:30 p.m. in the Memorial Library auditorium. 
The Observer is always looking for new repor­ters. If you like to write and can devote a few hours each week to reporting, visit our office on LaFortune's third floor. Talk to one of our news editors. They'll be glad to get you started. 


~The_Ohs_er_ver_ 
Design Editor ...... 'No Doz' Ver Berkmoes Design Assistants ............... Marilyn Larkin 
Paul McGinn Typesetter ........................................AI Novas News Assistant ..................... David Sarphie Copy Editor~.................. Maureen O'Toole 
Steve Navarre 
Features Layout.............. Gregory Swiercz Sports Copy Editors ........................ Earl Rix 
Pete Manzo Typist ....................................... !.aura Degnan ND Day Editor ..................... )oe Musumeci Ad Design......)ohn & Fran & Bob & Mary Pbotograpber ............................ Rudy Perez Guest Appearances ....................... Mok-Tar Phony Grapefruits Dogs Window Prod Valerie Quack. 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Frtday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary's Col· lege. Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnttng The Observer. P 0 Box 0. Notre· Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved. 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. lndlana46556. 


The Observer Wednesday,)anuary 20, 1982-page 3 
Meat shortage 


Food price hike in Poland 

WARSAW, Poland (AP) -Com­munist Poland's martial law govern­ment announced that f<>od prices would go up Feb. I, and warned of a drastic shortage of meat. 
The government daily, Rzec­zypospolita, said that purchases of animals for slaughter for January was 400,000 tons, 180,000 tons less than the same period in 1981. 
Authorities also said police in southwestern Warsaw uncovered an "illegal" Solidarity printing press and lcatlc:ts calling for "insubordination and undertaking activities against the government of Poland." 
The report was an implicit warn­ing for rebel unionists to cease their actions. 
President Reagan said U.S. economic sanctions against the Soviet Union have had an impact, but that the martial law situation in Poland is still inadequate. "We're not going to wait forever for im­provement in the situation there," 

Dr. Peter Rich discusses fundamental evolution 
Bv BILL O'BRIEN 
News Staff 
The evolution theories ofSpencer 
and Darwin arc consistent with the 
fundamentals of design, according 
to Dr. Peter Rich. 
The designer is the creator and 
the designee is the current design in 
nature, or the state of evolution of 
the organism, he explained. 
Rich began the Biology Depart­
ment's weekly seminarseries yester­
day afternoon with his lecture 
entitled, "Darwin, Spencer, and the 
19th Century Origins ofEcology." 
Spencer and Darwin's theories of evolution, Rich believes, arc consis­tent with these fundamentals of design. Spencer believed that the "ultimate unknowable" created mat­ter and energy which evolved by persistence of force from merely physical principles into chemical, biological and eventually social principlc:s. Spencer is also well known for his contributions to sociology, Rich added. 
A more conventional theory of 
evolution is related to Darwin's 
beliefs. Ukc Spepcer, he believed in 
a singular creator but gradually 
moved away from this, toward 
modern science's atheistic convic­
tions; that is, evolution can be ex­
plained without a spiritualistic 
force. 
Spencer maintained that there 
wa.~ indeed some unknown inspira­
tion but, Rich emphasized, "its insig­
nificance, according to Spencer, was 
comparable: to the difference be­
twc:rn a termite and a jet airplane." 
Bassist 

starts off 
•

serzes 
Double bassist Mark Bernat ofthe University of Texas will be presented in concert by the Univer­sity Artist Series at Notre Dame at 
8: I'; p.m. Tues. Oan.l9) The program in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snltc: museum of Art Is open to the public with tickets, pricrd at S2 and SI, available at the 
door. 
The Polish-born musician was ed­ucated In Israel and the U.S. and earned the position of principal bas­sist with the Jerusalem Symphony. He has been a winner of the Julliard School's double bass competition and has taught at the Rubin Academy 
of Music in Israel. 
Currently a professor of music in Texas, he has taught at the Oberlin Conservatory of Music and the Shawnigan Summer School of Music in British Columbia 
This is the first of six concerts planned by the Artist Series for the spring semester. Ten concerts were held during the fall semester. 
Darwin's philosophy of evolution was deductive. It studied the relationship and mutual effects be­tween organisms and their environ­ment. There was no movement of the environment as in Spencer's theoretical model. Evolution resulted from excess fertility, struggle for existence, mutation, and natural selection. 
Rich concluded by stating that "science has gotten beyond Darwin. It is now more objective and explicit about evolution." 
Reagan said yesterday in a nationally-televised press con­ference. Reagan did not spell out ad­ditional steps that might be taken. 
Price hikes sparked riots in Gdansk and ncar Warsaw in 1970, at central Radom in 1976, and in 1980 launching the now-suspended inde­pendent union Solidarity. ' 
The price hikes will be the first opportunity to gauge the measure of control of martial law, declared in Poland on Dec. 13 to halt what was seen by authorities as economic and social chaos. 
Some workers who have contacts with Solidarity expect to calmly protest such steep price hikes. 
But many Poles are apathetic. ·~we went through so many things that we are not thteatened or afraid and there is no other way but to adjust." 
The price hikes, if implemented, will boost the cost of pork, ham, cheese, and butter from 200 to 280 percent. 
The government, while admitting that the hikes are steep, said in an open letter that the hikes were necessary because previous at­tempts to raise prices had been rolled back under public pressure. "The fact that it had been put off many times in the past for political reasons was one deepening economic disequilibrium," the offi­cial letter said. 


 
We'll show youhow•••free. Would you like to: Evelyn Wood works-over 1 million people, including students, executives, senators, and even0 Raise your grade average without long hours over texts. presidents have proven it. A free 1 hour demon­stration will show you how to save hundreds of0 End all-night cramming sessions. hours of drudgery this year (as well as how to0 Breeze through all your studying in as little as increase your speed immediately with some simple1/3 the time. new reading techniques).0 Have more free time to enjoy yourself. 0 Read 3 to 10 times faster, with better con­It only takes an hour, and it's free. Don't miss it. centration, understanding, and recall. EvelynWoocldm)Evelyn Wood'sreadingsystem makes it all possible. will open your eyes.  
ATTEND ANY ONE OF OUR FREE DEMONSTRATION LESSONS 4 DAYS ONLY! MONDAY TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY JAN. 18 JAN. 19 JAN. 20 JAN. 21 2:30P.M.· 4:00P.M. 7:30P.M. CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION AUDIO VISUAL THEATRE ~EVELYN WOOD READING DYNAMICS  

The Observer Wednesday,January 20, 1982-page 4 
...Reagan 

actor, Christopher Walken, actress Susan Sarandon and Mailer's companion Norri~ Church during a lunch break from the murder trial ofwriter-convictjack Henry Abbott in Manhattan Monday. f AP Laser/Jhoto) 

continuedfrom page 1 
becau!oe we need to protect nation­al security and ourability to conduct foreign policy." Noting that it is against the law for unauthorized people to release classified informa­tion, he said, "What we're doing is simply abiding by the existing law." 
The president, wearing a blue suit, spoke in the East Room ofthe White House. 
Asked about the criticism ofReps. Jack Kemp, R-N.Y., and Trent Lou, R­Miss., about his coming budget plan and possible increases in excise taxes, Reagan said their displeasure was based on speculation and press repoJ:!s. "I'm going to have to have a little talk with them," he said. 
The president refused to answer a question about whether he would like Paul Volcker to resign as chair­man of the Federal Reserve Board. Deputy White House press secretary Larry Speakes said later that in avoid­ing a positive or negative response, the president "wasn't calling for Volcker's resignation." 
Reagan, asked whether he would increase charitable contributions and thus follow advice he has given in the past that individuals make up for government cutbacks, said he believed in "tithing -the giving ofa tenth" ofincome to charity. 
He said it was true that his tax returns showed "a small percenarge of deductions for worthwhile causes." 
"But I have for a number of years done some ofthat giving in ways that are not tax deductible with regard to 

Sony Tape and Sunshine Promotions Present an evening with .... 


ROD STEWART 
Le Gtnnde Tout Ameticn nnd Cnnndn 1981/1982 
WORTH LEAVING HOME FOR!!!! 

Thursday, Ja-n. 21 8Pm Notre Dame ACC 
All seats reserved. S 12.50 On sale now at: ACC Box Office, Robertson's South Bend and Concord mall, St. Joe's Bank-Main Branch, First Bank-Main Branch, The Elkhart Truth 
and Suspended Chord in Elkhart. 
individuals that are being helped," he said. 
Speakes said that the president has given money to "worthy, needy in­dividuals" and that it has amounted to "roughly 10 percent" of his income. Speakes also said the presi­
dent did  not  intend to  make any  
names public.  
Reagan  declined  to  make  an  

opening statement, saying that he first planned to do so, "but I decided that what I was going to say needed to get a lot ofattention so I'm going to wait and leak it." 
On the Middle East, Reagan said the issue ofautonomy for the Pales­tinians is "the toughest question" concerning U.S. policy. Israel is scheduled to complete its withdrawal from the Sinai on April 25, and Palestinian autonomy talks between Israel and Egypt are stalled. Reagan said that "we want to help if we can. We won't set a deadline, but we are hopeful that at least by the Sinai (withdrawal) time they get down to a plan for proceeding." 
Asked whether his opposition to abortion would be altered if one of his daughters became pregnant as a result of rape, Reagan said he would not answer in personal terms. But he said when he was governor of California, such an exception to an anti-abortion law became "a gigantic loophole." He went on to say that "abortion is the taking of a human life," and he would be "hesitant" to &anction it even in cases of rape. 


Book suggests Jesus married , staged own crucifiction 
LONDON (AP)-Church leaders are angry and most critics unimpressed by a book suggesting 

. Jesus married, staged the crucifixion and has living descendents. 
But the public today was snapping up copies of "The Holy Blood and The Holy Grail." 
Marilyn Edwards, spokeswoman for publishers Jonathan Cape Ltd., called the book's sales "really phenomenal." She said two printings had been sold out by Monday, the first day of publication, and another printing ofover I0,000 had been or­dered. 
London bookstores that ordered 200 and 300 copies priced at SI 7 apiece were reporting their stock exhausted by firstday sales, she said. The book goes on sale in the United States in February. 
The book -by British writer and filmmaker Henry Lincoln, 51, American novelist Richard Leigh, 39, and New Zealand researcher Michael Baigent, 34, is based on more than I 0 years of research, including what the authors say are newly discovered and deciphered documents that shed new light on medieval history. 
The essence oftheir contention is tat a secret society called the Prieure de Sion was founded in the IIth cen­tury, and from that day until this, has been protecting Jesus' descendents 

·to prepare the way for his return to power through the accession of his divine offspring. 
Building upon t that thesis, the authors propose that the reason jesus had descendents was that he married Mary Magdalene, had at least one child by her and survived the crucifixion with the help of his disciples and Roman co­conspirators. 
The book suggests Mary and her children fled to southern France, where their descendents' bloodline mingled with that of the Franks and came down through the Merovin­gian kings of the Middle Ages to modern European noble houses. jesus' fate was more obscure, but he was likely to have fled the· Middle East, it says. 
Speaking for the Roman Catholic 
Church, the Rev. John Crowley, 
private secretary to Roman Catholic 
Cardinal Basil Hume, said "The 
thesis is incredible in the most literal 
sense." 
"What next?" BBC television com­
mentator Barry Norman asked sar­
castically:-"son ofJesus Christ?" 
The Sunday Times took the issue 
less seriously. It lampooned the 
book with a cartoon of an angel 
saying, "Ifjesus marries, I hope it's~ 
nicejewish girl." 

Directories available 
The new 1982 university phone books, encompassing the 239 phone system, are now available in the Stu­dent Union offices. 

·-----------------·--------------------­
! NEIGHBORHOOD 

I STUDYHELPPROGRAM 
1 !leeds volunteers for tutoring children in 'the South Bend community 

1sign -ups in l'otre Dame 
!dining halls Wed. Jan. 20 
r-{1'~\ 

I TODAY fli~~'"·~.J 
1 


4:30-6:30 PM 


L--------~--------·----------·······---~ 
SffiC ORIE~TATIO~ '81 
APPLICATIONS ARE NOW BEING ACCEPTED FOR: 
Chairman Assistant Chairman Social Chairman -Big ·sister /Little Sister Off-Campus ~ · 
Chairman Chairman i· General Committee Transfer Chairman 
Workers 

Applications are available in the Student Activities Office ( 166 Lemans Hall) Deadlinefor applications --Tues. Feb 2, 1982 IPlease sign up for an interview when you return your application. 
-~----~. ----------------------· --· ---­
-------~ 
The Observer Wednesday, January 20, 1982-page 5_ 


Teenage killers 
Court refuses death penaltyban 
WASHINGTON (AP) The 
Supreme Court refused to ban the 
death penalty for teen-age killers, 
but admonished state judges to use 
more caution in sentencing. 
The 5-4 decision left open the question of whether imposing the death penalty on teen-age killers vi­olates the constitutional ban on cruel and unusual punishment. 
"The court ordered a new sen­tence hearing in Oklahoma for Monty Lee Eddings, who gunned down Oklahoma State Trooper Larry Crabtree in Tulsa, after running away from his Camdenton, Mo., home. 
Court records show that Eddings had deep emotional problems and said he was severely beaten by his stepfather. 
The Court said the trial judge had failed to give enough weight to Ed­dings' turbulent, early years as the "mitigating" factor in deciding whether to sentence him to death or life in prison. "Courts must consider all relevant, mitigating evidence and weigh it against circumstances," the opinion said. 
"We note that Oklahoma statutes permit the defendant to present evidence "as to any mitigating fac­
tors and requue me sentencer to lis­
ten," Powell told the lower courts. · Eddings could be sentenced again 
to death at the new proceeding. The 
court's decision did not affect Ok­lahoma's death penalty. 
The most recent figures indicate that as of last May more than 800 inmates on death rows across the na­tion were under 18. 
Joining Powell in the majority were Sandra Day O'Connor, William ]. Brennan, Thurgood Marshall and john Paul Stevens. 
Chiefjustice Warren E. Burger led the dissenters, joined by justices Blackmun and Rehnquist. 

Government report 





Econotny shows no Decetnber gain 
WASHINGTON (AP) 
Americans' incomes rose less in 
December than in any month since 
early 1980, the government 
reported yesterday, giving little en­
couragement that consumers might 
somehow quickly spend the nation 
out ofthe recession. 
In a separate report, the govern­
ment said housing starts rebounded 
substantially in December but not 
enough to keep starts for all of 1981 
from the lowest level in 35 years. 
December's 0.2 percent gain in personal income was the smallest since the 0. 1 percent in April 1980, one of the worst months of that year's recession. 
Americans managed to increase their personal consumption spend­ing a moderate 0. 7 percent in December, but it would be difficult for them to continue such spending without bigger income gains. 
For all of 1981, the Commerce Department report said, personal income rose 11.3 percent -all but about two percentage points eaten away by inflation. The 1980 gain had been I l. 1 percent. 
Personal consumption spending rose 11.1 percent for the year, up from the 10.7 percent of 1980. · 
But with income now rising little, business officials may well continue to have trouble selling their products and will have little in­centive to resume full production or hire back laid-off workers. 
Added to earlier reports that in­dustrial production sank and un­employment soared in December, the new income figures made it clear that last month was the worst so far in the 1981-82 recession. 
Another one or two months of negative reports are expected. But most economists still say the worst maybe over. 
Private analyst Sandra Shaber of Chase Econometrics said yesterday she's sticking with that forecast. She said such big industries as autos and housing are so depressed that "they probably have hit bottom" and should rebound at least a bit with in-

Complaints continue asphones malfunction 
By ROBERT MAROVICH 
News Staff 
Students recently have complained about consistently receiving busy-signals when dialing the 9 exchange for off-campus and long distance phone calls. 
According to switchboard operator janice VanMele, there were some malfunctions with the 9 extension, but that has not been the problem. Rather, the problem has been twofold. 
Because ofthe new 239 exchange, she said, students have to dia19 first to receive these numbers. The double call load due to the 239 exchange could be relieved by the addition ofanother 9-level trunk, or switchboard, but VanMele said that there has been "no indication that they will be adding any more." 

Cl~t: full 



(,\pi llicll<t.:" 11(., 1 t-, It t •••) The_Ohs.erY-er_ Is looking for design assistants 

--, 
) 
terest rates now down somewhat 


Famed Thunderbirds perish 
Clockwise from left: Capt. Willie Mays, Capt. Pete Peterson, Capt. Mark Melancon and Maj. Norman Lowry were killed Monday when their planes crashed while practicing maneuvers in the Nevada desert. ( AP Laserphoto) 
from early 1981 highs. 
Along that line, the separate Com­merce report on housing starts said new units were begun at an annual rate of 978,000 in December, up 
13.3 percent from November after a year dominated t by declines. 
The department's preliminary es­timate said about 1.087 million units were started for all of 1981, down from 1.292 million in 1980 and the lowest total since the I. 1 million in 1946. 
The December housing start results -and the report's figures showing building permits for future con t struction rising 11.6 percent for the month -were clear signs ofim­provemen t t in that troubled part of the economy. 

ENGINEERING GRADUATES: 
Now let's talk about tomorrow. 
When your professional future starts taking shape. When your early career decisions become vital. Evaluate carefully. And include Republic Steel. 
A Fortune 100 employer, in an important basic industry. Offenng challenging career opportunities. Visit the Placement Office for more details. 
REPUBLIC STEEL WILL INTERVIEW ON FEBRUARY 2 
an equal opportunity employer 



Republicsteel 


Wednesday, January 20, 1982-page 6






Editorials Reagan tacitly endorsing racism 
The Reagan Admuustration' s accept the consequences of racist The tax case isn't the only example brought on by the poor ec9nomic habit of saying one thing, doing an­policies. of racist behavior by this administra­situation and budget cutbacks, and Anthony Walton other, while actually effecting some­This action, of course, touched off tion. Notice the treatment of Haitian encouraged by the intolerance thing else, is beginning in to wear a wave of criticism and controversy. refugees. They have been herded in practiced by the Moral Majority and thin around the edges. One of Blacks (or any other minority group) detention (concentration) camps, other right-wing groups. For ex­
Outside Wednesday

Reagan's (i.e. his staffs) favorite should not have to subsidize, through with meager food and clothing, (one ample, a woma t n in Georgia, the mot· ploys has been to float an embryonic the ultimate effect of their own taxes, of which is in Watertown N.Y., an her of a white child by a previous policy or dire prediction, gauge the groups which discriminate against extremely cold climate for tropic marriage, had another child, by a 
that the millions of unemployedreaction, then plot strategy. Or, such and insult them. Every dollar in taxes Haitians) and are being encouraged black man. A court judge declared black teenagers represent. Reagan'stactics can work to distract the that a racist school doesn't have to to leave the country, or be deported. the woman an unfit mother, and took policies represent further alienation country away from more urgent pay has to be collected somewhere They are not offered assistance in the white child away, leaving the from society for them. 

issues. For example, where have all else, which increases the tax burden transit, and are discouraged when black child with her. The judge stated the assassins gone? In November of the general population. It is a they try to land. (re: the incident this in his decision "we ain't ready for Perhaps Reagan feels that he there were rumblings of war and reasonable policy, and the furor that summer when 33 Haitians drowned). that kind of race-mixing around doesn't need black people. They ''restraining Kaddafi,'' Americans its removal sparked is justified. Any­So much for "Give me your tired, here." (As Mr. Reagan says, we've didn't help elect him. Many of his ac­were "ordered" to leave Libya thing less than firm policy regarding huddled masses ... " And, one has to got to keep the government out of tions, such as cutting social (which few, if any did) and such schools is tacit approval of be inclined to think that this treat­family life.) programs, abolishing affirmative ac­"descriptions" of the "hit squad" bigotry. ment has something to do with their It is impossible to think of such an tion, and allowing the biased schools were circulated. At best, the Reagan administration race, because this is the first group in act occuring in the 1980s, but it did, tax exemptions, implies that blacks 
Two months later, we get reports is guilty of gross insensitivity, which recent memory to be denied entrance and more like it will follow without a do not have a place in Reagan's · that "Mr. Reagan may have over­wouldn't be surprising given the past and treated so callously. real commitment from the ad­America. It will take decisive action, stated the threat," and we're in­year's performance. This time, There is an ominous trend of racial ministration to prevent it. Or, on a not smiles and panaceas to prove formed that "No hard evidence has however, I'm not inclined to dismiss tension growing across the country, mass scale, think of the time bomb otherwise. ever existed." Meanwhile, the Reagan's "Never mind" delivered smokescreen disguised further the following Monday. Are we budget manipulations, bad economic supposed to believe that there was a forecasts, and encouraged the "misunderstanding" on so impor­population to accept the massive tant an issue? (If there was, that's a military agenda. different kind of indictment, but even 
This tactic, which could be called this group isn't that heavy-handed.) "Never mind," has been used on Reagan's handy excuse doesn't wash several other occassions. Remember because if he was concerned, as he " I could see a limited nuclear war in has said, about the civil rights and Europe," "We will not raise taxes," dignity of minorities, he would have and "We are going to reaffirm our issued an executive order preventing commitment to Taiwan, one of our the action from occuring. oldest and closest allies"? Each Instead, Reagan cynically passes statement (and many others) has been the hot potato to Congress, saying shortly followed by a (in statement that he will "introduce legislation," and/or action) resounding "Never but Congress has to pass it. What this mind, we didn't really mean it," and does is assuage the Thurmond­Reagan is once again utilizing this Helms-Falwell bigot faction of his technique, on an issue that is .constituency, and keeps his 'non­sensitive and important to a large legislative' record clean. There are segment of the population. two problems with this, the first 

Ten days ago, the Justice Depart­being that the president of the United ment lifted a ban on tax exemptions States should uphold the rights and by and for educational institutions honor of all American citizens, even that discriminate against blacks on if he must 'interfere' by executive or­the basis of race. Rescinding of the der, and second, there is ample non-profit educational tax exemption precedent for non-legislative ex­was not as a result of federal inter­ecutive and judicial fiat concerning pretation of a given institution's civil rights. If Congress had been policy, racial bias had to be a stated relied upon to effect civil equality in policy on the part of that institution. this country, black people would So, the institution in effect chose to probably still be slaves. 


Nixon tapes should be finished 
In the general dismantling of the tapes clearly disqualifies certain going to have with the thousands of lichman. He does not openly confess government services, the Reagan ad­men for future public service -hours of White HOuse tapes -and 
he is worried; but they have to in­Alexander Haig, for instance, or Kis­fluence the way he writes the account GmTJ Wills
ministration has cut the team of the problems he and I are going to 
singer-we employ those men at our of his career. He can only hope that, 
people transcribing Nixon's White have with them. At times we will be 
House tapes -a transcription that is risk if we have not looked into their if the tapes do come out, he will have 
heard responding to Richard Nixon's very difficult, but one at which the past performance. truly outrageous statements with established his version of events so their memoirs would confront the 
current workers have acquired some silence or even acquiescence, when firmly in people's minds that those evidence, not fear it, not pooh-poohEverything being written by those
skill. Much wasted time will be spent an outsider may have yelled or who have accepted his version will it in advance. We spend a great eal ofinvolved in the Nixon administration 
by the future workers, picking up ponded the desk in outrage. But a feel a personal stake in it. 
our tax money establishing a recordis subtly distorted by fear of what

again the skills that we are turning Nixon assistant in our position knew Clearly, the current administration of the government's activities. It is a
m-ay be on those tapes~-Henry Kissin­has a stake in protecting its own
away. he had to come back the next day foolish economy to cut the one thing
ger must trim and hedge against pos­choice for secretary of state. It the
with other problems that deserved 
that can distort so many other records Some people clearly hope that the 

sible revelations. The most tapes should reveal that Haig bar­
serious consideration. We thought 
that we maintain. If future investiga­

tapes will never be transcribed on the interesting thing in John Erlichman's gained for Nixon's pardon, or
that we owed it to the country to stay 
tions prove tha people in the Reagan 

same principle that made President new book, "Witness to Power," has condoned or knew of illegal acts, it
effective in our dealings with Nixon. 
administration have something on

Ford pardon Nixon -to put not been noticed in any of the news would be hard to take Secretary
So we often finessed." 
those tapes to be concealed we shall

Watergate behind us, to stop wallow­stories and reviews that I have seen. Haig's word very seriously. Haig has have undergone another cover-up,ing in that sordid episode. It is a little footnote that reveals Er­In other words if Kissinger of Er­shown a desire to get his version of another Watergate. It is time,But, unfortunately, Watergate is lichman's concern over the tapes, lichman says "Good!" to any Nixon e.\'ents into other people's books. Our indeed, to put Watergate behind usahead of us, not behind us. Those and tries to diminish beforehand suggestions of illegality, we are not history is being written by those with -but that can only be done when wetapes will affect not only how our his­whatever might emerge: " In to blame these loyal employees, who a great deal to protect. 
forswear cover-ups, when we air thelOry ww Ot! written. but how it will be 1979. Henry Kissinger and I talked are just humoring their boss. 

Ifthe tapes' contents were known, facts, when we let in the light. 

lllaae. If. tor '"~ranee, som~:uung uu Kissinger is more discreet than Er­
aoout the prou'"'"" historians are it would clear the air. People writing 

Editorial Board 

==Ihe_-Obset:ver== 
Editor-in·Cbief..............................john McGrath Founded November 3, 1966 
Executive News Editor.........................Kelli Flint Sports Editor.............................. Skip Desjardin 

The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the News t:attor............................. David Rickabaugh Photo Editor........................................John Macor SMCExecutive Editor........... Mary Agnes Carey Editorials Editor.......................Anthony-Waltun
University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily SMC News Editor.................. . Cathy Domanico Features Editor .........................Gregory Swiercz 
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report­ed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of uepartment Managers a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views 
Business Manager .........................Rich Coppola Production Manager...................Michaei Monk

of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and Controller.............................................]oe Mulflur Circulation Manager .............Tom MacLennan
the free expression of varying opinions on campus, t:hrOUjb letters, i& encouraged. 
AdvertisingManager.......................Chris Owen Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley
P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame. IN 46556 



Features 
Wednesday,January 20, 1982-page 7 

A trip to the dentist 
A mong the ridiculous flsmall-talk questions passed around at the beginning ofsecond semester, the one about New Year's 
Eve is fairly popular. "What'd you 
~!#.He i~~ .ffi !!h"". 

Robert Wack 
do? Did you have fun?" like the 
answers to all other pleasantries, 
most people make something up, 
either because they can't remember 
or they didn't do anything. After­
wards, they talk about it like it was 
the v.rcatest night of their life. For­
tunately, I don't have to think very 
hard t(>r a story because my New 
Year's was one of the most 
memorable ever, but not for the 
right reasons. 
It all started the night before at a bar ncar my house. I was sitting with a couple of my friends, shooting the breeze, when .the topic of the next day's activities came up. A friend named Paul was talking about going to the liquor store the next morning to stock up for a party he was having. 
"Hey Robert, you want to come with me? I'm going to need some Upon arrival, I was grabbed and placed in a chair. My dentist came in and started jacking me up with what seemed like enough novacaine to immobilize a very large hip­popotamus. He then kindly in­formed me that "you shouldn'tfeel a thing, this is the most painlessopera­tion in the world." I began to relax, thinking that maybe it wouldn't be that bad after all. 
Thinking it was just a preliminary exploration, I closed my eyes and relaxed, pr.eparing myself for the coming ordeal. Suddenly, I felt something clamp onto one ofmy rear teeth and give a huge tug. An electric bolt ofwhite hot pain shot through my jaw and I uttered a gur­gling scream ofprotest. 
"I guess the novacaine hasn't taken yet," my dentist quite astutely' observed. After administering a few more shots, he went to work on an­other tooth. I couldn't feel anything on this one and he merrily dug into it, hacking and smashing anything in his way. I actually started to drift off for a while, oblivious to the carnage being wreaked in my mouth. I was brought back by a shout from my dentist. 
"Oh my God! Don't do that! Not there, not there! Oh for Pete's sake, tors, prys, and other engines of destruction. The force ofthe removal was so great, that I was 

being lifted out ofthe chair and 
thrown around. My dentist paused, 
took a deep breath, and heaved with 
all his might. The incredible stress 
my jaw was under began to cut 
through the anesthetic fog and a dull 
throb bagan to grow in my head. My 
dentist was grunting with exertion. 
"C'mon you son ofa ..." With a 
sickening crunch, the tooth ex­
ploded into enamel shrapnel, 
ricocheting offthe roofofmy mouth 
and the back of my teeth. My head 
slammed back and my mouth quick­
ly filled with blood. 
The other teeth weren't as bad, 
comingout with little difficulty. The 
last one, though, still hadn't taken 
the novocaine. I promptly informed 
my dentist of this with several kid­
ney punches which he deftly 
dodged, still pushing the screaming 
drill deeper into the tooth. He later 
informed me that the teeth come 
out easier ifyou break them up with 
a drill first. Thanks, doc. 
That night at my pal's, I sat sullen­
ly in the corner nursing a beer 
through a straw. The pain hadn't 
really started until the novocaine 
wore off, then all hell broke loose. I 


help." Everyone stared at me as I 
4 
muttered a negative reply into my 
beer. "I've got to get my wisdom teeth out," I said, flinching in expectation ofthc barrage oflaughter and jokes at my expense. 
"Who got you an appointment on New Year's Eve?" another friend asked in disbelief. 
"My mom made it while I was at school, and when I got home for Christmas, it was too late to change it," I replied sheepishly. Another burst oflaughter erupted, followed by a series ofjokes about making out with me at midnight and using my soon-to-be-swollen cheeks as festive decorations. 
The next morning I was dragged out of bed and driven to the dentist. 
bled continuously, and I was eating
look out! Go get some more!" my 

Tylenol like candy. In other words, I
dentist yelled at his assistant. She left 

was set for the evening.
muttering apologies, in search of 

"Hey Robert, come here. I want
more sterile equipment. I opened 

you to meet someone." I looked
my eyes and gave the dentist a quiz­

overto see Paul escortinga beautiful
zical look. 

girl through the crowd towards me.
"She is new. This is the first time 

Quickly spitting out the blood
she has done somethinglike this," he 

soaked cotton wads and wiping my
told me in a whisper. Great, I · 

mouth, I stood up.
thought to myself, a greenhorn. "She 

"This is Katie, a friend ofmine
can't speak English either." The 

from school. Katie, this is Robert
sinking feeling returned to my 

Wack, he goes to Notre Dame."
stomach when I started to con­

"Pleased to meet you," the
template the possibilities that an im­

goddess said. Trying to be as suave as
patient dentist and an 

possible, I extended my hand. "Hi ,
inexperienced assistant held for my 

how ya doing?" The instant I opened
oral well being. I closed my eyes and 

my mouth, a trickle ofblood dripped
began to pray silently. 

out ofthe corner ofmy mouth onto
The assistant returned and work 

my shirt. All ofthe people near me
resumed. My mouth nad oecome a 

were speckled with small red spots
collection ofraces, clamps, extrac­

on their clothes. Paul grabbed the 
girl and led her away, saying, "No, 
I'm sure he didn't think it was funny 
either..." My friends around me were 
torn between revulsion and hys­

Trivia Quiz XII 
W
elcome back · trivia fans, fo; another semes­ter of rock 'n' roll obscurities. There are no answers to report from last 
By Tim Neely 

, week, as there was no qutz tht.n; tne answers to the last one before Christmas appeared in the clas­sifieds that day, so that is not an issue either. 
Once again, thanks are in order to a member of the Notre Dame stu­dent body for inspriration this week. Jim Leous ofCavanaugh suggested something along the lines of Broad­way last year, but since seldom do 
Broadway and rock mix, I ignored his idea. However, in a compromtse, 
ana m a sudden lack ofinspiration 
for anything else, here are ten records, all ofwhich made theBil­lboard Top 20, and all ofwhich came from the theatre. Identify the showsfrom which these were taken. 
I. "Standing on the Corner" 
2. 
"People'' 

3. 
"Send In the Clowns" 

4. 
"Good Morning Starshine" 

5. 
"Day by Day" 

6. 
"On the Street Where You live" 

7. 
"Mack the Knife" 

8. 
"Corner ofthe Sky" 

9. 
"Tonight" 

10. 
"I'll Never Fall in Love Again" 




Frigid weather takes toll on returnee 
T
he day before I returned from Christmas Break was spent driving 
around Phoenix, Arizona, in 75-degree weather. It was january 
I 0, 1982, the day when the wind-chill factor in Chicago pulled the 
temperature down to eighty below zero and numerous Notre Dame 
students were forced to spend the night in the windy city. 
The weather there was national news, and so I was forewarned of 
the oncoming danger. I quickly packed my thermal underwear, said 
my last goodbyes, and departed for the Golden Dome. 
Only one ofthe stewardesses on American Airlines was as cute as 
the ones on the commercials, so I was not disappointed to finally 
land at O'Hare International Airport on that cold, cloudy evening. 
My itinerary called for taking United Limo from Chicago to South 
Bend, and I found myselfwaiting along with eighty other school­
bound students, many ofwhom had spent the night before in 
Chicago because of the 
weather. The temperature 
was forty below, counting wind-chill, and I, audacious as 
arc amirez 
I am, dared to step outside. The limo was scheduled to arrive in fifteen minutes, and so I figured the wait wouldn't be too bad. 
When my toes began to stiffen and become numb, I wasn't worried. But fifteen minutes became halfan hour and then forty-five minutes. My ears had just frozen over when the first limo pulled up-­with room for eleven riders. The driver looked at us all and had to laugh. We must have looked like a herd ofcattle, but we felt like eighty frozen sides ofbeef. I didn't make the first limo in the stam­pede that followed, but instead opted to wait for the next one which was "right behind this one." The arctic weather had caused my legs to become·stiffnow; however, I still was not worried. Afriend waiting with me made a sarcastic comment about the climate, and I smiled. Ten minutes later I was still smiling. When my friend in­quired as to the reason for my everlastinggrin, I explained that my fa­cial muscles had frozen in place. It was then that I decided that it was time to wait inside, crowd or no crowd. I darted for the nearest building, savored the warmth within, and five minutes later, a limo bus with room for forty-seven riders pulled up. Fortunately, I made it aboard this time around. 
Buzz, a short-haired ROTC friend of mine, assisted me with the task oftransporting my luggage to the dorm through the fierce bliz­zard that we encountered. Along the way he told me ofthe joys of snow, ofdiesel trucks and trailers, jackknifing, and ofsnow emer­gencies. By the time we reached my room, I felt like collapsingonto my bed out ofexhaustion. I dropped the bags I was carrying, took off my coat, and headed toward the comfort ofthe bunkbed mattress. An arm whirled me around, and it was Buzz. 
"Come on, Marc!" he said with a huge smile decorating his face. "Come say hi to everybody! Tell them you're here!" 
The rest ofthe night is a mystery to me. Escorted by Buzz, I paraded around in zombie-like fashion, reacclimating myself to the trials and tribulations ofdormitory life. 
It was harder getting used to going to school again. I fell asleep in my first science class. I forgot how early I had to leave in order to get to O'Shag in time for philosophy. I couldn't remember my way around the library. 
My first Saturday night back came as a welcome conclusion to the first week, and despite our weekly blizzard, it was great. At midnight I found myselfstarvingand decided that it was time for my tradition­al trek to the Oak Room. Thoughts ofa hot juicy Oakburger with cheese were dancing in my mind until I discovered that the Oak Room was closed due to the weather. My dreams were shattered, and I was mildly upset. I cooled offby Sunday afternoon and told myself, "Oh, that's okay. Ifit's hard enough to walk across campus in this weather, then we shouldn't expect people from off-campus to come work here." 
Suddenly, a brilliant thought flashed in front of me. "Wait a minute!" I cried. "Teachers live off-campus too! Ifthe Oak Room is closed, then maybe...!" 
Classes were held on Monday as scheduled, my Calculus homework and four-page essay in Comp. & Lit. were still due, and the Dining Halls were open as always. The Golden Dome stood out defiantly against the cloudy sky as if it were a symbol that neither hail, nor rain, nor sleet, nor snow can keep this university from operating as usual. 
It's great to be back, isn't it? 
• 
terics. I sat back down in my chair, my depression deepening. The final insult came at midnight when I received more than twenty hand­shakes and hugs from every female there to bringin the NewYear. The I couldn't even drink fast enough through a straw to get drunk, so I wallowed soberly in my misery all night. 
Memorable? By all means, yes. I probably will never forget it. Fun? Debatable. -My friend eventually ended up spending New Years Eve in the apartment watching Manlyn Chamber's in­credibly dramatic performance in that classic film, "Behind the Green Door." They also memorized the entire dialogues from the "Blues Brothers" and "Animal House." Good times. 


I 
I 
I 
r 
Sports Brie./§ Wednesday, january 20, 1982-page 8 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
Every Saturdaynight,the Student Union will spon­sor a ski trip to Swiss Valley. Advance tickets can be purchased at the 

Yesterday's Results 

ticket office for S2.50, or for 53.00 on the shuttle bus. The bus will Villanova 48, Notre Dame 46 depart from the Main Circle at 5 p.m. every Saturday and return to 
VIllanova (48) M FG-A FT·A R F P
campus at 11 p.m. All are invited to come and join the fun. -The 
Howard 364-80-0128
Observer 

Pinckney 38 3·5 3-4 5 0 9 Pinone 39 6-7 1-3 8 4 13 Granger 36 2-4 2-2 1 3 6 McClain 24 2-5 0-0 1 0 4 McLain 5 0-0 0-1 0 0 0 Mulquin 73-30-0116 
The WOmen's golf team of Notre Dame and St. 
Mary's will meet today to elect oficers. Anyone interested in par­
15 1-2 0-0 1 0 2
Bobbs

ticipating is asked to attend. The meeting will be held in the 24-hour 
200 21-34 6-10 18 10 48 
lounge in Breen-Philips at 7 p.m. -The Observer 
FG Pet. .618. FT Pet. • .600. Team rebounds -0. Turnovers -11. Assists 11, Granger 4 Technicals, None. 
Notre Dame (46) M FG·A FT·A R F P
The Fellowship ofChristian Athletes is 
Varner 38 3-10 0·0 4 3 6 Spencer 29 1-3 1-2 5 1 3 Andree 40 5-7 1-1 4 3 11 
sponsoring an evening with tiket manager and former football co­
captain Steve Orsini. The presentation will be held in the Farley Hall 
Mitchell 303-30-0136
chapel tonight at 8:30 p.m. FCA promotes Christian fellowship 
among athletes and coaches in hope that this will be shared with the 
Rowan 10 0·0 0·0 1 2 0 Rucker 13 0-1 0-0 0 0 0 200 22-41 2·3 17 14 46 FG Pet. .537. FT Pet. -.667. Team rebounds ·Turnovers-10. Assists 8, Paxson 
larger community. All are invited. -The Observer 
···········~·····-······ .. ··::~ 

4 Technicals-None. Halftime-Notre Dame 28, Villanova 27. Of­San Francisco Forty-Niner Randy Cross, left, andjohn Ayersponder
Bobby Knight, who has coached Indiana to two NCAA 
ficials-Phil Robinson, Big Ten, Ed Mamcich, ice sculpture in Detriot.(AP Photo) 
basketball championships in six years, was named Tuesday as 
Big Ten, Larry Lombo, ECAC. A· 11,345. 
recipient ofthe 1982 Eckrich Silver Medal ofthe Indiana Basketball Hall ofFame. Knight, who has coached the Hoosiers 11 years, will be inducted into the Hall March 25. He is the 21st recipient of the award. -AP 

Gilmore and Greenwood lift Bulls over Pacers 
In this year's NHLplayofflormat, the top lour teams 
CHICAGO (AP) -Artis Gilmore points.
in each division make the playoffs, regardless of overall league standing. combined a game-high 27 points The Bulls strode to a 31-29 first­
The ND-SMC SkiTeamtime trials were postponed 
last Sunday because the ski area was closed. Practice and trials have with 16 rebounds and David Green­quarter lead as Ronnie Lester and 
PRINCE OF WALES CONFERENCE 

been rescheduled for this Thursday. Members should meet at the Adama Dlvlalon wood added 22 points Tuesday Greenwood combined for 15 points. 
Main Circle at 4:30p.m. Drivers aare needed. The trials will be held W L TGFGAPta. night to power the Chicago Bulls to 
Buffalo 27 tt 8 t89 138 62 
Boston 26 13 6 188 t58 58 
at Swiss Valley Ski Area in Michigan. Maps will be available at the a 110-100 victory over the Indiana But the Pacers moved to a 41-35 Circle. The trials are mandatory for anyone who wishes to be on the Quebec 25 16 5 215 t85 55 Pacers in National Basketball As­advantage in the second quarter
roster this year. -The Observer 
Montreal 22 tt tt 202 132 55 
sociation action. with Clemon johnson scoring six of 
Hartford tO 24 tO t47 198 30 Patrick Dlvtalon The win snapped a four-game his 10 points in the first three 
Philadelphia 28 t5 1 t84 161 57 losing string for the Bulls, 16-23, minutes ofthe frame. But in the next 
NY Islanders 25 12 6 t83 17 56 NY Rangers 20 19 6 164 176 46 and dealt the Pacers, 18-21, their 4:34, Chicago outscored Indiana 13­
Pittsburgh 19 t97113 177 0 211 seventh setback in nine contests. 2 for a 54-53 edge at halftime. 
Washington 12 26 7 168 191 31
APhysicalFitness p~ogr_~ that will meet to~r 
The Bulls carried a 79·72 margin Mike Bantom reeled off eighttimes a week will have its first meetmg thts Fnday. Anyone that ts 
CLARENCE CAMPBELL CONFERENCE into the fourth quarter before In­points early in the third quarter as interested should be at the A.C.C auxiliary gym at 4 p.m. -The 
Smythe Dvlalon 

diana's Tom Owens, who had 16 the Pacers closed to 69-68, but the
w L T GF GA Pta
Observer 

Edmonton 27 t2 9 259 191 63 points, led a Pacer charge that Bulls recovered anew, outdoing In­Calgary 17 20 10 186 207 44 closed the gap to three at 85-82. diana 10-4 as the quarter came to a 
Vancouver 15 22 10 t60 t7t 40 Los Angeles 13 26 6 178 219 32 But Gilmore, Dwight jones and close. Colorado 10 30 6 t28 210 26 
Ricky Sobers, who had 18 points, Indiana's scoring star, Johnny
Norrla Dlvlalon Minnesota 17 14 14 t84 157 48 
then ignited Chicago on a 20pint Davis, whohad been averaging 16.3 The Off-Campus Hockey team will hold its first 
St. Louis 21 20 4 17t 180 46 scoring binge that padded the Bull points a game, was held to just 12 Chicago 17 19 9 t98 202 43
practice tonight at 11:00 p.m. at the ACC Ice Rink. Players are lead o 106-89 in the dying minutes points. Bantom spearheaded the
Winnipeg t6 21 10 179 209 42 
reminded to bring money for jerseys and ice time. -The Observer Toronto 15 20 11 195 205 41 of the contest. Gilmore and Sobers losers' offense with 18 points. 
Detrort 13 25 8 154 t91 34 
conbined for 19 fourth-quarter 
The Observer will accept classitieds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However, classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid, 

Classifieds 'either in person.or through the mail. 
LOST/FOUND LOST a silver heart locket w1th my name engraved on it. If found please call Amalia at38t8.  NEEDED: THIRD ROOMMATE FOR REST OF THE SEMESTER. CASTLE POINT APTS-LUXURIOUS BUT AF­FORDABLE. $130/mo. and 1/3 alec. IN­CLUDES USE OF RACQUET CLUB. CALL MIKE OR LARRY at 277-3306.  FOR SALE J L...---­ ALL THOSE STUDENTS INTERESTEu IN TUTORING JUVENILES AND MEETING REALLY INTERESTING PEOPLE COME TO THE GENERAL MEETING WEDNESDAY, JAN 20 AT LITTLE THEATREAT7 PM. BE THERE.  While the rest of us work, Richard Grimaldi eats cav1ar 1n lhe Red Square. However. when he finally returns he will be forced to eat primordial soup. Keep those cards and letters coming in.  ATTN POLICE FANS I Please respond to my MESSAGE IN A BOTTLE and find me a nde to the Cleveland concert on January 29--will share usual. If I don't get driven to Cleveland, I'll be DRIVEN TO TEARS! Call 4330 SMC todavl  
LOST: One pair at black ski gloves. They last warmed my now frozen hands last Fnday at the Beach Party at the SMC Club House. Anyone w1th 1nlo please call 850t or 8512. My hands would be very thankful.  ROOMMATE WANTED· completely fur­mshed apt., super locale. NAME YOUR RENT· Dave 283-1169 NEEDED: One roommate. House near campus. bars. Call 233·2969.  FOR SALE Two studded snow lires. Will fit most compact cars. $25.00 each. For more info call Andy at x8448 TICKETS  LaGROTTA RETURNS! One week remains. Advertising sales people needed for Scholastic Magazine. If you are In­terested and would like to earn some ex­tra money call Brian at 1088.  Marcia Timko, Out of the kindness of my heart I've decided not Ia taint your nearly un­blemished reputation (for the time being). Are you sure you didn't know whatT. & A. meant?··· .. . ~?.~.  Rumor has it thai WSND has a DANCIN' BAR on their construction sight! BABE Congrats on be1ng legal for 17 days! (That's you, Maureen Zeller!)  
Found: Blue and green scarf. Discovered at Bendix Woods 1/14/82. Call John at 1764 to identify. LOST· one left hand brown calfskin leat­ WALKING DISTANCE FROM CAMPUS (5 BLOCKS) CRAWLING DIST FROM CORBY'S· NOTRE DAME APTS. ON BUS ATE. BAR, PRIVACY, INEX­PENSIVE. CALL KIRK 283-8930  Need 1·4 Maryland GA's. Call Jill4802 or Sandy 4879 (SMC).  ALL THOSE STUDENTS INTERESTED IN TUTORING JUVENILES AND MEETING REALLY INTERESTING PEOPLE COME TO THE GENERAL MEETING WEDNESDAY, JAN 20 AT  Mr. Mojo's rlaln' and he is living in 222 Stanford Susan, fencmg star: you're my idol!  Manbeth Moskop, that gorgeous female, turns the btg 2t todayl BRIGHT BLUE Let's get PHYSICAL!  
her glove in/around Washington Hall at  LITTLE THEATRE AT 7 PM BE THERE.  Q: What is a ROMAN HOLIDAY?  
callbacks on the evening of the 18th · if  L.I.P.S  
found . please contact Dav1d Barber at 8109. Thanxl  L..-_w_A_N_T_E_o_  __JI  L..j_PE_R;._s_o_N_A_L_s___,  P.J. and BOB BEWARE Walsh girls are angelic!  TRISTERO LIVES Many thanks to all those McCandless  Nice victory over B.P! Drumroll please  
FO.LJND·A great time at the home of the Braves. Thanx. The Girls. FOUND: White ski cap w1th red and yel­low stnpes between Farley and North Dining Hall, Tuesday. Claim at Adm. Bldg. Lost and Found. ANYONE KNOWING THE WHEREABOUTS OF CASSETE TAPES WHICH ARE MISSING FROM SMC BEACH PARTY, PLEASE RETURN TO LEMAN$ DESK. ·F Losr·:····;-;·,Lvefi···;;Mer-FiCij.j····wA:rc·H LOST SOMEWHERE NEAR MENS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..' . . . Looking for a Jafre distributor. I'm low on supplies. 272· 7152. COMPARATIVE GOVT. 342 BOOKS. CALL MIKE AT 1689 Need 4 GA's (2 pr) for MARQUETTE. Call Alx1384 YOUR USED FICTION: THE AMBAS­SADORS. LOST IN THE FUNHOUSE, A MONTH OF SUNDAYS, and THE MOVIEGOER. CALL Paula at 4648 anytime.  ATTN POLICE FANS! Please respond to my MESSAGE IN A BOTTLE and lind me a ride Ia the Cleveland concert on January 29--will share usual. If I don't get driven to Cleveland, I'll be DRIVEN TO TEARS! Call4330 SMC today! HELPHELPHELPHELPHELPI I need a ticket (or more) for lhe Police concert in Chicago! Will be willing to drive anyone to Chicago for the concert if they can get me a ticket(s)l Willing to spend some of my hard-earned cash (Since Corby's burned out-· what else is there to do anyway?) for a ticket! Call Diane at 7933 today!  ME FIRST! I need 5 (or 2 and 3) Mar­quette tix. Keep my family life healthy. Call Pete, 3478. KATHY SUPLICK: HAPPY BELATED 21ST TO OUR FAVORITE SECTION GROUPIE KEENAN 2-NORTH Hey Rabbit: How deep is your burrow? Love, The Carrot ........................ Donna: Are your grapefruits JUiCy and tasty? Uncle Ryan tj'{!) ·I  wenches who made Sat. morning an event worth gettmg up lor. Now we've seen everything! By the way, the frozen pancakes would make a great late-night snack. They were well stacked. Next time we'll whip something up when we have you for breakfast. The Basses 2 of 4, If this goes any lurther.it may lead to HAND to HAND COMBAT I Richard. 2 out of 4 ain't bad .rl.: ..:...........iiecroR'i:oP~'Z'''""········· .. : 'You still haven't cleaned the'eiasersl 1; ·····rtr•••••••,•••"••••••••••••·•r,  Denise Gagnon. that gorgeous BABE. turns 21 tomorrow! 9-CGRACE HAS GOT WHAT FARLEY WANTS. AND PRETTY SOON IT MAY BE STARING FARLEY RIGHT IN THE FACE. Hey John B., Are you really going to get some real muscles? Are you going to keep you room clean too? · We are betting against you! Love your suitemates.  
LOCKER ROOM AT THE ROCK. ANYONE HAVING ANY INFORMATION OF THE WHEREABOUTS OF THIS WATH CAN CONTACT ME AT x3113. ASKFORBOB. FOR RENT FOR RENT: Individual or group. Com­fortable house close to campus, bus $500 per semester plus share of utilities. Call 288·3942 after 5:30pm  Keyboard player needed for rock band now forming. Experience preferred. Call Dan at 8694 a~ Ralph at 687t . Drummer wrth experience needed for rock band now form1ng. MUST BE SERIOUS ABOUT IT! Call Dan at 8684 or Ralph at 687t. WANTE.): MANY MARQUETTE BAS­KETBALL TIX AS SOON AS POSSIBLE CALL DENIS AT 8402 I need two student Marquette B·ball tick­ets. Call Kathy, 3848.  JUNIORS and SOPHS: SUITCASE PARTY at Giuseppe's Fri. Jan 29 9 PM. $5.00 tix on sale Jan 18·22 from 11 :30-t PM in La Fortune Lobby and 5-6 PM the dining halls. Win a lrip For two to Ft. Lauderdale! It really ticks me off when someone makes me do something I don't want to do! LARRY Alii have to say to you 1s that you owe me two bucks!  IT'S BEEN A SLICE. THE MURPH -.;-;-.................... LOGAN CENTER VOLUNTEERS: Start the semester right, don't m1ss the first Saturday Rec this Saturday from 9:00­t t1 :30 am. Forthose of you who can't wait· -lhere will be a dance Friday from 7:30-t O:OOpm New and old volunteers welcome. NEW JERSEY MAY BE THE ARMPIT OF THE NATION, BUT JOHN MACOR IS THE ARMPIT OF NEW JERSEY!II THE MACOR FOR UMOC.  Volunteer Recruitment Meeting for SAVE. (Student Advocates and Volunteers for the Elderly) is scheduled for Thursday (1/21182) in Room 200-Haggar Hall at 4:30 p.m. SAVE offers four programs for the elderly to interested volunteers. For more inlormat1on, contact VSO 239 -7308 or 7309. For all those who m1ssed it-yesterday. the BLOND BOMBSHELL,KATHY SUPUCK, legally became a 21st century fox! Love, Your Neighbors  Hi B.P. Girls, Thanks lor helping us find out what real DEMAND is. S.Bob Bole IS in true agony. While trying attempting to play basketball, he twisted his poor little ankle. Steve would go to the girl dorms in seartch for sympathy, but rt is tough for him to walk. Please come to 9t8 Grace Hall and offer him your sympathy. Lord knows this sheep lover can use all the affection from a human girl. Thank you  


\ 

The Observer -Sports Wednesday, january 20, 1982-page 9 
... Items 

continuedfrom page 12 
DECIMATION -As if the schedule was not bad enough, Digger 
Phelps is even having a problem putting two full squads on the court 
during practice. The loss offreshman Dan Duff and sophomore Tom 
Sluby has shaved the Irish roster to seven scholarship athletes and 
three walk-ons, which adds up to ten total bodies. Duff chipped a 
bone in his right ankle against Virginia and will remain in a cast for 
three weeks before beginning a rehabilitation period. Sluby was 
declared academically ineligible for the second semester. 
Injuries, grades and a variety ofother circumstances have caused 
Phelps to shuffie his lineup extensively this season. The most recent 
starting five Oohn Paxson, Mike Mitchell, Tim Andree, Barry Spen­
cer and Bill Varner) represent the sixth different lineup Phelps has 
drawn up. 
TWILIGHT ZONE -Saturday's Maryland game, originally slated 
for a 1:30 p.m. start has been pushed back to 8 p.m. on Saturday. The 
time change was made so that the Metrosports network co t uld in­
clude this game on itsschedule ofNotre Dame contests this season. 
TICKETS PLEASE -A few upper arena seats still remain for the 
Maine game on january 27 and Northern Iowa on March 2. The tick­
ets are priced at S4.50 and are available at the Gate 10 box office of 
the ACC. The rest of Notre Dame's home games this !!Cason arc sold 
out. 
VANDALS RUN RAMPANT -When Notre Dame entertains the Idaho Vandals on Monday night, don't be surprised to see a lot of Vandal boosters in the stands, via Chicago. It seems that Tom Green, the sports director at radio station WCLR-FM in the Chicago suburb of Skokie, started mentioning the exploits of the Idaho team as a humorus addition to his broadcasts. 
But the Vandals soon climbed into the national rankings, and the joke has become a full-fledged booster can1paign. Idaho's sports in­formation director sent pictures and programs ofthe team to Green, remarking that Idaho fans thought it was great that Skokie, a town without a team, had adopted theirs. 
"It started out as a joke at first, but now people here are really seriousabout It," said Green. "They want Vandal T-shirts, sweatshirts and buttons. And some of them plan to travel to South Bend for the game between Idaho and Notre Dame. We picked up on this team because no one else would have it and no one else knew it existed. Now we're even putting the Idaho fight song on the air." 
Irish guardjohn Paxson fires shot that tied the score at 46 in Notre Dame's game against Villanova. Paxson scored 20 points and dealt outfour assists in losing effort.(Photo by Rudy Perez) 

STUDENTS 
The Air Force has just announced a new program 
for engineering students that pays $900 per mo., 
for up to 12 mos., while you are attending school. To qualify, you must be a U.S. Citizen, meet all 
mental, moral and physical requirements ofan officer training school candidate. You must be majoring in an accredited civil, aeronautical, aerospace, architectural, astronautical, electrical, industrial or nuclear engineering program. For more information 
·Call SSgt. Marty Lazar, collect. South Bend 219-233-4747 Valparaiso 219-464-4151 
OR VISIT SGT. LAZAR AT THE NOTRE DAME PLACEMENT OFFICE ON JAN. 21st. 




SUMMER JOBS AVAILABLE 
HEAR ND ALUMNI BOARD DISCUSS: 
*STUDENT LlFE *CAMPUS ISSUES 
*SUMMER JOB PI.ACEMENT 
THURSDAY NIGHT 9:00 IN: 
MORRISSEY  HOWARD  
WALSH  ZAHM  
BREEN-PHILLIPS  FLANNER  

SPONSORED BY ALUMNI ASSOC. & HPC 



• Cll~ldHAI * 




friday night film series 
A grouping of distinguished films shown in conjunction with the course COTH 320/MLIT 377 (The Contemporary Italian Cinema) and sponsored by the Department ot Communication & Theatre. All showings at Annenberg Auditorium, the Snlte Muaeum of Art, Notre Dame Campus at 7:30P.M IndiVIdual Admiss1ons $I .00 Ser~es T1cket 13 t1tms tor $10.00 
January 22 

1be Qoapel According to Saint Matthew 
Directed by Pier Paolo Pasolin1. I 964 (I 36 m1nutes. B&W) A complex cinematic 1nterpretat1on of the Gospel text by one of ltaly"s most radical lett-w1ng intellectuals 
January 29 

The Decameron Directed by Pier Paolo Pasolini. t 972 
·(111 minutes. Color) An earthy adaptation of ten of Boccaccio"s tales set Within an en· tirely new frame story and embellished with a further ten original ep1sodes. The director continually appears and reappears. in the guise of a medieval painter. presenting wry comments on the meamng of lite and art. 
February 5 lnvMtlgatlon of • Citizen Above Suspicion Directed by Ello Petri. 1970 (114 m1nutes. Color) This elegantly executed thriller is a study of the abuse of power. Its protagonist. currently the chief of the government"s polit1ca1 Intelligence unit. commits a murder and deliberately plants ev1dence that will lead to himself. then takes personal charge of the investigation. 
February 12 

1be Confonnlst D~rected by Bernardo Bertolucc,. 1970 
(1 08 m1nutes. Color) The interrelationship of perversion. conformity and the totalitarian spirit is explored 1n a ser~es of dazzling. highly stylized 1mages as the director equates the rise of Fasc1sm with the psychosexual lite of h1s protagon1st. for whom conformity becomes an obses­sion alter a traumatiC homosexual experience of his adolescence. 
February 19 

The Spider's Stratagem Directed by Sernardo 
Bartolucci. t 970 (97 minutes. Color) A young man revisitS the town of h1s assassinated lather and en­counters myster~es which unfold upon further mysteries in a spider"s web that tangles history and fiction. trSIIor and hero. past and present into one inextricable skein. 
February 26 

Arnarcord Directed by Federico Fellini. 1974 
(127 minutes. Color) Based on Fellini"s recollections as a youth in a small town of prewar Italy. the story centers around a young man who longs lor the freedom of adulthood but cannot quite leave the safety of adolescence 
March 5 1be Garden of the Flnzi-Contlnls D~rected by VittOriO De S1ca. 1971 (96 m1nutes. Color) DepiCting life in the Jew1sh community of Ferrara when the anti· Semit1c edicts of the Fasc1st reg1me were beg1nmng to take el· feet. the film evokes a mag1ca1. doomed world With 1mages of great lyrical power. 
March 12 
Death In Venice Directed by LuChlnO VISCOnti. 1971 
(130 m1nutes. Color) The theme of fatal obsession 1s developed against a sensuous photographiC recreation of Vemce at the turn of the century with the mus1c of Mahler reinforcing the haunting. melancholy mood. 
March 26 
The ln..-nt Directed by Luchino Visconti. 1979 
(115 minutes, Color) The decay of an era and a marriage are both presented within a powerful. sumptuous vision of a soc1al class mov1ng Inexorably towards Fasc1sm. 
Apri/2 
Saven Buutles D~rected by L1na Wertmuller. 1976 
(116 m1nutes. Color) The director. at the peak of her energies. tells a relentlessly Iun­ny. profoundly pess1mist1c tale of the morality of a survivor. set ma1nly in a Naz1 concentration camp. 
Apri/16 
To forget Venice Directed by Franco Brusatl. 1960 
(1 08 minutes. Color) · Th1s po1gnant drama explores the Interrelated lives of t1ve people who gather together at a country home dur~ng a Critical t1me of thelf lives Richly evocative and v1sually detailed. Brusatl"s film laces the complex ex1stent1al problems of the present age. 
Apfl/23 
La Grande BourgeoiM Directed by Mauro Bolognlni. 
1977 (1 t 5 m1nutes. Color) This lushly photographed film is a depletion of a celebrated turn· oHhe·century murder case 1n Italy Beneath the surface of thiS exc1ting mystery IS an ins>ghttul view ot some ot ltaly"s most troubling contemporary 1ssues 
Apri/30 
TNe of the Wooden Clogs D~rected by Ermanno 
Olm1. 1978 (185 m1nutes. Color) A painterly epic of peasant hie 1n Lombardy in the late n1neteenth century. The director comb1nes an awareness of tmportant histor~cal events with an Idealized. mov1ng VISIOn of community ties and trad1t1ons The film has been recogmzed as one of the most majeStiC masterpieces •n the history of Italian cinema. 
~: 


j I 
The Observer -Sports Wednesday, january 20, 1982-page 10 


CULTURAL ARTS 

COMMISSION 
presents: 
MIKHAIL 
BARYSHNIKO 

and The American Ballet Theatre 
Saturday Evening, Febr11ary 6, 1982 Bus leav-es 6:15PM from Library Circle; Returns after show Tickets-$26°0 -Bus and Performance 
vailable at Student Union Ticket Office 
It was a pretty fair Christmas present for Digger Phelps, though it came a day late. 
Tim Kempton came, not wrapped in a bow, but with a flourish of green ink. The 6-9 inch 225 pound forward from Oyster Bay, N.Y. became the fourth high school star to sign an institutional letter of intent to attend Notre Dame. He also becomes the latest member of what is shaping up to be a recruiting class that will, by the time it winds up its collective career here, rival the class that brought you Orlando Woolridge, Kelly Tripucka, Tracy Jackson and Gilbert Salinas. 
Kempton will be joined by 6-I 0 center Ken Barlow of 
Indianapolis, and 6-8 shooting forward Jim Dolan in a 
"Who's Who ofHigh School Stars-1982" that will play 
up front for Phelps in the years to come. 
"I want to see once and for all if it can be done with 
good kids, if it can be done without cheating," Phelps 
says. 

"It" ofcourse, is a national championship. That is the 
goal at the beginning ofevery season for Phelps, even at 
the beginning ofthis one. It's the goal toward which the 
I 1 th year coach began trudging once again when 
Tripucka, Woolridge and Jackson took their acts to the 
NBA. 

"I'm looking for one more kid," he says. "I'll take the 
five, work with them, teach them, and go for it all again 
down the road somewhere." 

But not all of Phelps' plans are as distant. 
"If ever a young person belongs at Notre Dame, it's 
Tim Kempton -because of his spirit, his enthusiasm 
and his personality," Phelps says. "He's going to step in 
and help us right away. 

"People forget that we are losing just one player from 
this year's team. We are young and inexperienced now, 
but we'll be back with an extra year of maturity under 
our belts next year. Believe me, losing as many games as 
we have builds maturity quickly." 
Phelps hit the recruiting trail harder than ever before this past summer and it paid off. For the first time, he went shopping in his own backyard, recruited heavily in Indiana, and that paid off as well. 
Along with Barlow, Phelps signed 6-5 swingman Joe Price of Marion, Ind. and has his eye on the state's best player, Valparaiso guard Roger Hardin. · 
"We feel Barlow has the potential to be an Orlando 
Woolridge or Toby Knight type," Phelps says. "He and 
Kempton will give us the immediate size we need up 
front. 

"Joe Price is an excellent shooter, a player in the 
mold of Tracy Jackson. Jim Dolan is a pure shooting 
forward who is great when you need him down the 
stretch in a ballgame. He gets the key rebound, and hits 
the important shots under pressure." 
Clearly the future is much brighter than the present 
for Irish basketball fortunes. Tim Andree will get the 
help he needs up front in the rebounding department. 
The pressure to apply strength underneath will be off 
Barry Spencer, Bill Varner, Cecil Rucker and Tom Sluby. 



A full Xmas stocking for Digger 

John Paxson will be able to team with Dan Duff, Ron Rowan, Price, Varner or Sluby in the backcourt. 
Once again, Notre Dame will have the depth that has been its trademark en route to eight consecutive NCAA tournament appearances. 
"This has been a great recruiting year so far," Phelps concedes. "We've really helped ourselves in the area we needed it the most. We got two big men with the muscle we need underneath. We got a great outside shooter who can also play power forward. We've got another shooter who can play either guard or forward. And we're not done yet." 
A guard the caliber of Valpo's Hardin, or John Daw­kins of Mackin High in Washington, D.C. would make Phelps' dream team complete. He would have an entire team of experienced players who would have played together through their whole college career, and he'd be ready to make a serious run at the national cham­pionship with those players by the spring of 1986. 
That, admittedly, is a long way off. But the prospects are looking up for the immediate future as well. 
Picture this starting lineup for opening day, 1982. 
Tim Andree ( 6-I0)at center. Tim Kempton (6-9)and Barry Spencer (6-7) at forward. John Paxson (6-3) and Bill Varner ( 6-7) at guard. 
Offthe bench you have Cecil Rucker (6-9), Ken Bar­low ( 6-1 0) and Jim Dolan ( 6-8) to play up front. You also have Ron Rowan ( 6-5 ), Joe Price ( 6-5 ), Dan Duff (6-0) and Tom Sluby ( 6-4) in the backcourt. 
Remember that there is still at least one player to be signed, and you begin to see why Phelps and his assis­tants have such high hopes about the years to come. 
"How can I get down," Phelps asks. "Sure, we're having an off year, but there is so much to look forward to. Everybody has a bad year now and then. 
These things have a tendency to run in cycles. In the early 1960's, Notre Dame basketball fell on hard times, when 7-16 seasons followed 12-14 seasons. But things turned around, and the Irish were back to 20-win seasons by the middle ofthe decade. 
In the early 1970's, Phelps went through his now­famous 6-20 year, and followed with the greatest years in the program's history. 
Now it's the early 1980's, and hard times have befal­len Notre Dame again. But history will repeat itself, and the basketball team will pull out of the doldrums and back into contention for the national title with the infu­sion ofnew blood. 
"We'll be back," Phelps says with a smile and a wink. "Just ride it out, and watch." 
... Wildcats

Whatkindof 
continuedfrom page 12 
by a total ofonlyseven points. "I thought we could relax a little tonight, since it was non-conference




accountantdoesit 
game," said the colorful Massimino as he puffed on a victory cigar. "But, man, was I wrong. I'm getting too old for this kind of stuff, but it's too much fun to quit."
taketogobeyond And, finally for Aaron Howard, suffice it to say that, last night poetic justice was indeed served. IRISH ITEMS: Maryland (9-5) is
thebotto111linel 
next for the Irish on Saturday night at 8 p.m. Note the time change from afternoon to evening ....Don't look now, but another undefeated team is coming to the ACC. On Monday night, No. 8 Idaho ( I 5-0), pays ND a visit for an 8:00 start ....Villanova's victory was its first at the ACC since Massimino took over as coach in 
1973 ....Ron Rowan, the hero of Saturday's win over Davidson, played an invisible 10 minutes last night and did not take a shot ....The Irish shot 54 percent from the floor, a season high. 
~~..~u~..~o~..~o~..~o~..~o~..Ho~..Ho~..~o~..•o~­
It takes one who is not only concerned with a client's financial statements. but w1th their business as well. 
Because. what a business needs from its accountant IS not JUSt a signature on an annual report or tax return. 
More than that. it needs sound business ·advice and innovative think1ng. What we call going beyond the bottom line. If you want to be that kind of profes­sional. we're for you. 
At DH&S. we'll offer you opportunity for growth. along w1th the experience and knowledge to make that growth P,ossible. 

ATTENTIONI 
We base promotion on merit, not senior­
manbt qnas hall R€ps
ity. So. how far you go, and how fast. IS essentially up to you. 
anb mt€Q€St€b cluss anb 
You'll have frequent discussions with 

OQqamzatJons:
. your supervisors-to talk about your achievements and your goals. We also offer many forms of continuing 

Important meeting:
education. From review courses for the 
CPA exam, to ones designed to keep you 

Wed.Jan.20 
up to date with the newest developments in your profession. 

9:00PM
In short. we care as much about your future as you do. It's the only way we can keep going beyond the bottom line. 


Deloitte 
Little Theatre, 

LaFortune
Haskins+Sells 
Beyond the bottom line 
© 1981 Oelollte Haskins & Sells. 1114 Avenue of the Amencas. New York NY 10036 
Wednesday,January 20, 1982-page 11 
Simon 

l'M IN FUU u:c, C~T 
~EY 51\M. 
X) l NtEt> A C,OL.f cART 'BEC AliSE IT':; \:lf\llG.E~OOS 
~RY Yl.lf 10 WALK a-< K.E . ~CIJ HAVE ib 'BE \ 



The Daily Crossword 
1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 

Michael Molinelli 
WnL PoN 'r LOOK AT rr. .. LooK AT TI/C", .. Til£ ... AIL. PC5TE"t.JTJAt.. ,,, WHAT 11 
CWLPB£ 


ACROSS 29 Ionian gulf 1 Con 30 Hemand­5 Barton or 33 Fall flower 
Bow 34 "It's a sin 10 Abner's to tell-" creator 35 The last 14 Lima-supper 15 One who 36 This one's 
ties shoes rebuff 16 On the ocean 39 Fochof 17 Baseball film 
player's 40 Cue dreaded 41 High nest words 42 Military 
20 Cousin to address 
the moose 43 Skeletal 21 Cinereous part 22 Attics 44 Dorothy 23 Duck Hamill, e.g. 24 Levee 45 Hltmovie 26 High-rank· 46 Take­
ingTurks from me 
[*~fiE~lic;·~iiif.....................l 
• 

:  Unsold Books and Money  l  
: from : STUDENT UNIONi BOOKEXCHANGE  i: :  
:  Returned Wednesday  :i  
:  (today)  

t......!~~~~~~~ .......................i 



/ WP6 WfAii'\N~ 

Campus 
•II: 
I5 a.m. -JCL Introduction, First class, Computing Center 

•3 
· 5 p.m. -Book Exchange, LaFortune, Sponsored by Student Union, Pick up money and unsold books 

• 
3:30 p.m. -JCL lntroducdon, First class, Computing Center 

•7 
p.m. -Meeting, Film Club, To elect officers, all members and prospective members please at· 


.. 
'· 
tend 
•7 
p.m. -Lecture, "Nuclear Disarmament in So­cial Concerns" First floor alcove, LaFortune, Sponsored by Cll.A 

•7, 
9, II p.m. -Film, "The Maltese Falcon", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Physics Club, S I admission 

•7:30 
p.m. -Meeting, Faculty Senate, Center for Continuing Education 

•8:30 
p.m. -Meeting, Notre Dame Fellowship of Christian Athletes Forum, Steve Orsini, Notre Dame Ticket Manager, Farley Hall Chapel, All are invited 

•9 
p.m. -Meeting, Mardi Gras Committee, All Mardi Gras Hall representatives and any clubs and organizations. are welcome, LaFortune Uttle Theatre 


Television Tonight 
Wednesday,January 20 
7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 
9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. !O:OOp.m. 
!0:30p.m. ll:OOp.m. 
11:30p.m. 
lZ:OOa.m. !2:30a.m. 
16 MASH 22 CBS News 28 joker's Wild 34 The MacNeiVLehrer Repon 46 Pattern For Living 16 Allin The Family 22 Family Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 46 Oral Rubens 16 Real People 22 WKRP In Cincinnati 28 Greatest American Hero 34 Live From The Met 46 21st Century News 22 TheTwoOfUs 46 The Renewed Mind 16 Facts Of Life 22 CBS Movie: "The Prime Suspect" 28 The Fall Guy 46 Today With Lester Sumrall 16 Love, Sidney 16 Quincy 28 Dynasty 46 Calvary Temple 34 Bolero 46 Michiana Today 16 NewsCenter !6 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 
34 The Dick Cavett Show 46 Praise The Lord 16 Tonight Show zz WKRP/Feature Movie 28 ABC News Nightllne 34 Captioned ABC News 28 Fantasy Island 46 Lester Sumrall Teaching 16 Tomorrow Coast To Coast 

Theologians speak 
Two protestant theologians will preach at worship 
in the University of Notre Dame's Sacred Heart Church during the Church Unity Octave, a week of prayer for Christian unity that began Monday Oan. 18). 
Reverand John Yoder, who holds theology appoint­ments on the faculties of Notre Dame and the As­sociated Mennonite Biblical Seminaries in Elkhart, will preach the homily at the 10:30 a.m. Mass Sunday (Jan.24 ). At 7 p.m. Sunday in the lady Chapel of Sacred Heart Dr. Anna Marie Aagaard, a Lutheran theologian and visiting professor from the University Aarhus, Denmark, will preach at Vespers. 

47 Moron 50"-Bede" 51 Gibbon 54 "-Indiana" 
(1917 song) 58 Arrow 
poison 59 Huge 60 Intellect 61 Backtalk 62 Dehydrated 63 Requests 
DOWN 1 Singer Lane 2 Patricia 
of films 3 Small nail 4 Sign 5 Shuts 6 Shaping 
machine 7 Uncomfort· able 8 Female ruff 9 Branch 
10 Hiawatha's transport&· tion 
11 From 12 Cocky 13 Declineto 
bet, in poker 18 Italian 
condiment 19 Ms Chase 23 Queen of­24 Float 
25 Ledger entry 26 City on the Ganges 27 "I saw­a·sailing" 28 Office worker 29 Without 
help 30 Core 31 -Oakley 32 Certain 
bird 34 Claude 
of TV 35 Stingy 37 Victuals 38 It feeds 
theColum· 
bia River 43 Ablution 44 Produced 
a play 45 Gags 46 Motto 47 Wading bird 48 Andrews 
of films 49 Sherbets 50 Air: comb. 
form 51 Black birds 52 Light color 53 Termini 55 Aged 56 Damage 57"-Yankee 
Doodle Dandy" 

Forward Btl/ Varner had his hook shot attempt blocked on this drive to the basket late in the game. The Irish dropped a heart· breaking 48-46 decision to the VIllanova Wildcats.(Photo byRudy Perez) 

The last-second basket climaxed a 
frantic final minute that saw Vil­
lanova stall, then throw the ball out 
of bounds, that saw ND's Bill Varner 
get rejected by Villanova's Ed 
Pinckney on a drive to the basket, 
and then saw Wildcat freshman Gary 
McLain miss the front end of a one­
and-one, but no points scored. Until 
:06 were left. 

That's when ND'sJohn Paxson hit an off-balance 23-footer to pull his team even at 46. The 6-2 junior · guard, who had been 10 a "uuunng slump as of late, pumped in a game-
In Super Bowl 

Notre Datne UJell represented 
VIEW FROM THE TOP -When ex-Irish football star Joe Montana leads his San Francisco 49ers into Super Bowl XVI on Sunday, it will mark the second time that an Irish graduate has quarterbacked a Super Bowl team. The first Irish graduate to appear in the NFL classic was Daryle Lamonica, who called signals for Kansas City in Super Bowl II against Green Bay. Since the ChiefS were pummeled 33-14 by the Packers in that 1967 game, 


Montana could become the first Irish quarterback to t>een ours t cored 141-70 rru.u me line. Notre Dame win a Super Bowl. shooting percentages were also considerably lower 
and quarterback 
Ifthe Comeback Kid can engineer the same magic he than their opponents-46.1.to 53.3 percent from the did here, the 49ers have nothing to worry about. field and 62.1 to 74.5 percent from the line. 
By KELLY SULLIVAN Jesuit senior also booted 70 percent
PROFESSIONAL STATESMAN -The day after San SOME LIKE IT HARD-Even ifthe basketball team is Sports Writer ofhis kick-offs into the end zone.
... Francisco's come-from-behind victory over Dallas, not faring as well as hoped, no one can complain that 
Von Wyl was chosen by Parade, Montana received a note from Ted Schwinden which they play an easy schedule, as the Sports Information Three high school seniors, induct-
Scholastic Coach and National read, "I'll be rooting for you on Super Bowl Sunday. Department points out. The Irish have already faced ing a pair of Parade All-Americans, 
High School Athletic Coaches As­
With a name like Montana, you can't lose." four teams currently in the Top 10, namely Missouri, informed Gerry Faust of their inten­
sociation for their all-America Schwinden is the governor ofMontana. Virginia, Kentucky and San Francisco, who have a tions to attend Notre Dame and play 
squads, and was a first-team All-Ohio IRISH WELL REPRESENTED -When Montana, who combined reord of 5 3-6 ( .898). football for the Irish next fall. 
selection by both United Press Inter­played for Notre Dame in 1975, '77 and '78, teammate Add Indiana ( 8-5 ), UCLA ( 7-5) and Murray State ( 11-Quarterback Todd Lezon national and the Associated Press. 
Bobby Leopold ('76-'79) and the Bengals' Ross 4), and seven of Notre Dame's nine losses have come (Bedford, Mich.), placekicker Hal Aslon is a lineman out of MoellerBrowner ('73, '75-'77) square off in Sunday's NFL title against teams with a combined 79-20 (. 798) record. Von Wyl (Akron, Ohio) and of-High School. He played for Faust'sgame, it will mark the 13th of 16 Super Bowls in which a The Irish still have to face four more Top 20 teams fensive guard John Askin state title teams in '79 and '80, and Notre Dame grad has played, and the eighth game in this season, including D t ePaul ( 15-1 ), San Francisco ( 15-(Cincinnati, Ohio) have all given helped the Crusaders compile a 12-1 which Notre Dame players have faced each other. Jim 2), North Carolina State ( 14-2) and Idaho ( 15-0 ), who Faust verbal commitments. 
mark this season. Their only loss Lynch played for Kansas City in Super Bowl I against boast a combined mark of 59-5 ( .922 ). Lezon was a three year starter for came in the Ohio state champion­Heisman Trophy winner Paul Hornung of Green Bay, These four plus Maryland (9-5), Marquette ( 10-6), Bedford High School. The 6-4, 200­ship game.
Lamonica in II, Lynch vs. Alan Page and Mike McGill of UCLA (7-5), Seton Hall (9-4) and Dayton (10-3) mean pounder threw for more than 2800 Askin, 6-6 and 260 pounds, owns a Minnesota in IV, Bob Kuechenberg and Nick that nine of Notre Dame's final 14 opponents have a career yards, including 1,163 his 40-yard dash time of4.8 seconds. He Buoniconti of Miami in VI, VII and VIII (vs. Washing-combined mark of 104-28 (.788). junior year and 1,109 as a senior last has already been named to All­ton's Myron Pottios in VII and Page in VIII), Page vs. Overall,the13teamsthelrishhavefacedsofarhavea fall. An all-state selection in '81, America teams by Parade, Scholas­Pittsburgh's Rocky Bleier and Terry Hanratty in IX, combined 119-62 (.657) record, and the 14 teams still Lezon tossed 16 touchdown passes, tic Coach and Adidas, and received Bleier and Hanratty in X, Bleier in XIII and in XIV vs. the to come own a 129-71 ( .645) record to date. That adds while running for another nine merit as an all-state, all-city and All­Rams' Mike Fanning, Oakland's Dave Casper vs. Page in up to a 248-133 ( .651) record for all of Notre Dame's scores. He also owns a 38 yard pun-Greater Cincinnati League pick. 
XI, and Oakland's Steve Sylvester in XV. opponents this season, nineteen ofwhom have winning ting average. 
Super Bowls III, V and XII are the only ones in which a records. "We felt Todd was the finest high 
Notre Dame player did not play. FOR THE RECORD -When Notre Dame lost to San school quarterback in the country 
NUMBERS GAME-Despite the Notre Dame basket-Francisco and dropped its record to 2-9, it marked the this year," said Faust. "We're ball team's record, the squad's statistics tell a somewhat first time in Notre Dame history that the basketball tremendously excited that he has different story than the scoreboard. Going into last team had gotten off to such a slow start. The 1921-22 chosen to attend Notre Dame." 
Inside: 

night's tussle with Villanova, the Irish had scored seven edition of the Irish went 2-8 to open the season before· In signing Von Wyl, the Irish head more field goals than their opponents, 292-285. winning two straight. With a 3-9ledger heading into the coach got the nation's highest rated Likewise, the Irish had only been outrebounded by Villanova game, the Irish are still ahead of Digger high school kicker. The 6-2, 217­
Recruits, p .1 0
eight, 345-337. Further they had only been outscored Phelps' first Irish team, which went 3-13 in 1971-72. pounder connected on seven field by 56 points, or 4.7 points per game. However, this could mark the first time since 1963-goals last fall, including a career-best However, the big difference lay in fouls. The Irish had 64 that both the football and basketball squads finished 54 yarder. An outstanding punter as committed 37 more fouls than their opponents, 228-the season on the minus side. That year, the football well, he boasts a 42 yard average and 
Standings, p. 8 
191. Irish foes had gone to the free throw line 61 more team went 2-7 while the basketballers were 10-14. put the ball out ofbounds inside the 
~ 193-123). In the last nine games alone, the Irish have i
~tiimieisii(2i5i9i·;1;9;8;)iainidihiaidiimiaid;ei7i0iimioirieifriieeiithirioiwisii-.-.-.-.-.-.Sieie._ITEiiM._Si,pa._gieii9._._._._._._._._._•ioi-yiarid._liinie._fiive._tti.mie__s~.~T~h~eiW~al~sih._~~~~~~~i;i;i;iiii~ 
Wednesday, January 20, 1982-page 12 
Last second shot 
Howard turns tables on Irish 
high 20 points on 1 0-of-1 7 from the  their third consecutive solid effon  
By CHRIS NEEDLES  floor.  and, although they only have one  
Sports Writer  "We put Howard on Paxson in the  win to show for it, Phelps was  
second half," Massimino said, "and  satisfied with the performance.  
It is doubtful that Aaron Howard  he did a good job. But Paxson made a  "Sure, ithurts to lose," he said, "but I  
knew what the phrase "poetic  heckuva shot. He's a winner."  can't criticize my players for the way  
justice" meant -that is, until last  Notre Dame, using a rabid sellout  they played. I think we can hold our  
night.  crowd to its advantage, held a 28-27  heads high after this one.  
The 6-7 Villanova senior, who was  lead at the half. But Villanova, utiliz­ "This game shows that we can  
in Tracy Jackson's face two years ago  ing a patient offense and 67 percent  play evenly with the better teams  
when the latter sank that miraculous  shooting, slowly pulled ahead and  now -we've sure got enough of  
winning shot at the buzzer, sank a  led throughout the entire second  them left on the schedule. I think we  
clutch 12-foot baseline jumper with  half until Paxson's clutch jumper.  can beat one of them one of these  
:03 left last night to lead the 19th­ Well, Digger Phelps, what about  days."  
ranked Wildcats to a pulsating 48-46  Howard's final shot?  In addition to Paxson's stellar ef­ 
victory over Notre Dame at the ACC.  "We keyed on Oohn) Pinone in a  fort, the Irish also received another  
In performing his own heroics last  zone," said Phelps. "But I guess we  fine performance from center Tim  
night, Howard, Villanova's lone  overplayed a little too much, Give  Andree. The 6-10 junior scored 11  
scholarship senior, made amends for  credit to Howard for hitting the  points, but more importantly, he  
his previous embarrassment, much  shot."  played fine defense on All-America  
to the satisfaction ofhis coach.  Although the TV replay hinted  candidate Pinone. Andree held the  
"Poetic justice," said Wildcat  that Howard may have travelled  6-8 Wildcat junior to only seven  
Coach Rollie Massimino, "that's not  prior to driving to the baseline for  shots and 13 points, six below his  
a term I use very often. But I think it  the winning shot, Phelps did not put  season average.  
applies pretty well here.  up any argument. For Howard, it was  For Villanova, now 13-2, it seems  
"Just this afternoon, I was hoping  his second clutch buzzer-beater in  that "sadism and masochism" is  
Aaron could contribute something  as many weeks, having hit another  becoming the team's motto. Last  
important in the game tonight, only  baseline jumper against Syracuse on  night's win was the 'Cats' fifth in a  
because ofwhat happened here two  January 9 to tie a game that Villanova  row ­with all five victories coming  
years ago."  eventually won in overtime, 84-83.  

See WILDCATS, page 10
For the Irish, now 3-10, it was 
Hoosier sniper shoots at high school bus 
INDIANAPOLIS, Ind. -A report of shots fired after a basketball game may be presented by the Indiana High School Athletic Associa­tion to Superintendent Karl R. Kalp of the Indianapolis Public Schools on Wednesday. 
Shots reportedly were fired in the direction ofa Broad Ripple High School players' bus Friday night by a young man identified by wit­nesses as a member ofthe Arlington High School basketball team. No one was injured. 
Leroy Z. Compton, lndiane Public Schools supervisor ofphysical education, said Monday the purpose of the investigation is to determine whether accounts ofthe incident are "rumor or fact." 
Ward E. Brown, IHSAA commmissioner, said his organization also would conduct an investigation. 
The reported incident occurred about 11 p.m. in a parking lot at the Broad Ripple High School as the bus returned players from Ar­lington. 
Faust nabs top kicker 







