,Police Go-Go -page 11
'
' 

VOL. XVI, NO. 88 an independent srudent newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1982 

Dr. William A. Sax makes a point during his lecture on China yesterday in the Earth Scier1ces Building. (Photo by Rudy Perez) 
35years 
WSND celebrates anniversary 
By KATHLEEN SHANNON 
Nt•u•sStuff 
On ft·hruary '), student-operated radio station WSND celebrates its .-\5th year on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses, broadcasting from 7 a.m. until I a.m. daily from atop the O'Shaughnessy tower. 
Publicity director Lynn forthaus notes that the station is "basically a word-of-mouth organization people who listen to us give us a •qmtation_" 

WEDNESDAYwh;i:l 
;FOCUS 
The M<ttion has geared actlvl!li..'S and special program~ towards tht· anniversary this semester, with must changes involving the all album­rock WSND-AM, tht· sc~·tor of the ~tation celebrating its .35th anniver­sary. 
A:\1 director Kevin Lcittcn is 
responsible for "all words and music 
playnl over the air," and is planning 
a number of specialty additions 
geared toward the anniversary. 
WSND-AM will also be taking "a trip into the past" sometime after ,\1arch bn·ak,which involves reliving three days ofa particular year. Music of the day will include "golden oldies from I 'J5H." Disc jockeys will live and act as they did in 1964, with usc ofspeech, cowbells, etc. 
WSND will broadcast live from tht· Mardi Gras Dancc-a-thon, and also 'pipe' music from the station to the carnival. Leitten adds, "over the past years we had to 1..·all to ask for jobs; now we get calls for jobs -it's great!" 
WSND-AM will still feature all of WSND-fM operates seven days a its regular programs this semester, week, all year long. Since it is including Tim Neely's Top 20 Time licensed by the FCC, it is required by Tunnel, where the top 10 songs law to operate a certain number of from a specific date arc played from hours and days. The 40 member staff" 6 until H p.m. Sundays. Rock in is comprised solcy of volunteers Retrospect, which features a group-from the South Bend area, especially 
from it's origination to today, will he broadcast Sundays from H until 10 
p.m. Other features include sports programs and Jive broadcasts of honll· basketball and hockey games, album specials, and the ND: Week in 
Ret•i£·u· news summary. 
WS:-.JD-A:\1 transmits to all thc dorms through cables placed in the steam system of the ND/SMC campuses. It is not licensed hy the 
fCC, but is unda the jurisdiction of
the University. Approximatdy '10 D)'s l'adl work t(ntr hours pc:r wc:c:k at the station voluntarily. Requests take priority over all other songs, and can be phoned-in at 239-6-HHl. 
WSND-f:\1, a classical, tim· arts sta­tion, ha~ timnulated several changes this term, including an expanded 
p.m. schedule, although no drastic alterations will occur. WSND-FM broadcasts to the general public, with approximately a 3S mile radius signal range. FM director Paul Korzcnccki notes, "Our station has the broadest range of classical programs in the area; no other sta­tion carries as much at s we do." 

The Cleveland Orchestra has been added to the f()rmat this semes­ter, as well as pcrformmanccs by Notre Dame students. Tapes by the Glee Club, the Chorale, the or­chestra, and several other groups will also he aired this term. The Daybreak program, which tl:atures light classical pieces from 7-9 a.m. will be reinstated, after being dropped last semester. 
ElSalvador 



Guerrillas launch daylight attack 
SAN SALVADOR, El Salvador (AP) 
-Leftist guerrillas battling El Sal­
vador's U.S.-backed junta launched a 
rare daylight attack on the eastern 
city of Usulutan-yesterday and 
claimed control of the northeastern 
town ofCorinto. 
A military source rc:ached by tel­phone in Usulutan, 70 miles cast of San Salvador, said fighting was heavy in at least four sections of the city through the morning. 
He said the guerrillas attacked about 6 a.m., killing at least one na­tional policeman and wounding three soldiers. There was no word on guc:rrilla casualtic_s. 
At midday the army said it had restored order in Usulutan but ad­mitted there was still sporadic shooting. 
Army spokesman Col. Marco Aurelio Gonzalez called the assaults "attacks of intimidation against the people" to keep them from voting in next month's constituent assembly elections. 
He denied that the attack was 
aimed at military targets, but jour­
nalists in the area said a national 
police headquarters and army bar­
racks were hit with automatic 
weapons and grenades. 
Residents reached by telephone said the streets were deserted, with people afraid to leave their homes. 
for summer work. 
Dan LeDuc, WSND news director, is continuing the changes made last semester in the news department, through a major increase in campus n.·porting. The 'heat' system of news 
see WSND, page 4 
"We can hear powerful explo­sions but we don't know where they are coming from," said one sourn· reached in the city of 25,000 resi­dents. 
Military specialist said they could not recall another guerrilla daylight assault of this type. 
The guerrillas have been threaten­ing a major offensive for more than a month but it was too early to tell if the attacks mark the start of the: of­fensive or just a flareup in the civil war that has taken more than 35,000 lives since the junta came to power in El Salvador in October I979. 
The Reagan administration 
pledged an additional S55 million in 
arms aid to the tiny Central 
American nation and says it will ask 
Congress for an increase in other as­
sistance of Sl 00 million this year. 
Secretary of State Alexander M. Haigjr. told the Senate foreign Rela­tions Committee that infiltration of arms to El Salvador's guerrillas "is again approaching the high levels recorded just bcfort· last year's so­called 'final oftl:nsive."' He said the 
U.S. will do "whatever is necessary" to contain the guerrillas. 
Haig declined to rule out the pos­
sibility of sending American troops 
into the region, hut said Reagan 
oppost·d the idt·a and would con­
sider it only "in an extreme situa­
tion." 
In addition to attacking llsulutan, the guerrillas daimcd control of Corinw, 115 miles northeast of San Salvador. 
The government said the guerril­las attacked Corinto Monday hut the guerrillas claimed to have con­trolled the town of 2,000 since Sun­day. 
An army spokesman did not deny that the leftists controlled Corinto hut declined further commt·nt. 
General Dozier relates security embarrassment 
VICENZA, Italy ( AP) -Brig. Gen. Asked what he missed most James L. Dozier said yesterday he during his captivity, Dozier replied: battled "excruciating boredom" but "In addition to not having my pl'C­never despaired although chained sonal freedom, not being with my and confined to a tiny tent in his six­wife, the thing I missed most was the week captivity in a Red Brigades' physical exercise.... I normally jog "people's prison." about four kilometers ( 2. 5 miles) a 
The U.S. Army general abo ad­day," Dozier said. mitted he was embarrassed because The 50-year-old general admitted he failed to heed warnings to take that he had ignored warnings by security measures against kidnap­Italian authorities and failed to take ping. U.S. oftkials said Dozier was adequate security to protect himself scheduled to tly to Washington against a terrorist kidnapping. today and would meet with Presi­"You folks arc looking at an t·m· dent Reagan tomorrow. barrassc:d guy. ... I assumt· full 
The general told his first full news rt·sponsihility for not ht-cding the 
conference since his rescue waming," Dozkr said. He said it had Thursday that he spent most of his neva on·urrt·d to him that the Red captivity dozing, reading hooks and Brigadt·s would ht· intert·stt·d in newspaper clippings on his ahduc· kidnapping an American. tion, and moving his arm~ and legs Dozin, the hight·st ranking li.S. of­for better blood circulation. ficer at the NAT<> hast· in Verona, 
"The period was charactazed hy was abducted from his apartment in excruciating boredom. ... I went that northern Italian city Ike I 7 in from competitive supersonic cxist­encc to slow subsonit" existt"ll<..'t'," 
see DOZIF.R, page 5 hc said. 
===:===:===========================================
nol,;sh re!u,;me
.r1 " ~" uat•gpredt•cts contt•nuedrest•stance
114 
WASIII:-.IGTON (AP)-Secretary ofState Alexander .\1. llaig_Jr., declaring that the crisis over Poland is "far from over," predicted today that resistance to Poland's martial-law regime is likely to increase. 
He also accused Cuba of "systematically expanding its capacity to project military powt·r beyond its own shores," and said the United States will do "whatever is necessary" to contain the guerrilla war in El Salvador. 
In testimony before the Senate foreign Relations Committee, Haig asserted that Western unity in opposi­tion to the milit~ry crackdown in Poland comes as an "unpleasant surprise" to the Soviet Union, whom he charged with "complicity in the Polish crisis." 
He said that until Gen. Wojcicchjaruzelski, the Polish leader, relaxes his grip, "passive and nut-so-passive resistance will probably increase." 
liaig, reviewing his trip last week to Israel and Egypt, said leaders of both countries agreed to strive for a declaratiion of principles on Palestinian self-rule "as soon as possible." 
Speaking of Cuba, Haig said the arrival this year of a second squadron of Soviet MiG-23 Flogger jets and 6.3,000 tons of military supplies increases Cuba's military arsenal, which already was "the largest air, land and sea inventory of the region." 
He said Nicaragua is being exploited as a base "for the 
export of suhvnsion and arnll"d intnvt·ntion through­out the region." 
On the .\Iiddle East, llaig t·rnphasizcd that no dt·adlincs have ht-cn set for reaching a dc:daration of principles on Palestinian autonomy. "liard work and in­tellectual ingenuity will he needed to briJgt· the grt·at 
difit:rcnces that divide" Israel and Egypt, llaig said. 
Haig said President Reagan had approved llaig's selection of Richard Fairbanks, tht.• former assistant secretary of state for 1..·ungressional relations, to he the new Middle East peace negotiator. 
As a result of his trip. Haig said, Egypt has been assured that Israel will withdraw as scheduled from the last sector of the Sinai Desert on April 25. 
He said both nations know the United States intends to be a "full partner" in the autonomy talks on tht· future of the Palestinians living in lands occupied by Israel in the I'J67 Arab-Israeli war. 
Haig said that in his nearly eight hours of talks with Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei Gromyku a week ago, he raised tht· issues ofAfghanistan, Cuba, and "the plight of dissidents and minorities in the Soviet Union." 
He said he told Gromyko that a constructive relation­
. ship with the United States can only be based "on greater Soviet restraint, especially in the use offorce or the threat of violence." 
f 



NewsBriep 
By The Obserr•er and The Associated Press 
A man who said he was carrying flammable liquid hijacked an Air Florida Boeing 737 jetliner carryin.g 7_7 peopl~ ~ues­day and forced it to fly to Havana, the Federal Avtatton Admmtstra­tion said. It was the first successful hijacking in the United States in more than six months. FAA spokesman Fred Farrar said the hijacked plane was Air Florida Flight 710, which had left Miami about 2:40 
p.m. and was bound for Key West. He said the pl~ne lan~ed at jose Marti airport in Havana about 3:28 p.m. Farrar satd the a~r~raft was hijacked by an individual who said he held a b~ttle c~ntammg.~am­mable liquid. The plane carried 72 pa.'isengers, mcludmg the hiJack­
er, and a crew offive. The FAA said it was the first successful attempt in the United States since lastjuly 10, 1981, when an Eastern Airlines jetliner was commandeered and ordered from Chicago to Havana. 
-AP 

A nation already beset by brutal weather got more dismal news yesterday from Punxsutawney Phil, the furry Pennsylvania forecaster who predicted six more weeks ofwinter. There were con­flicting reports from some groundhogs in other areas, but they in­cluded varmints that either didn't exist or were no-shows. The chief forecaster, Punxsutawney Phil, peered from his heated burrow at 
7:26 a.m. and saw his shadow as the temperature hovered at 19 degrees under clear skies. "The prediction is bad news for an America already reeling under the staggering blows of one of the worst winters on record," said Charles Erhard, president of the Punxsutawney Groundhog Club, who interpreted Phil's prognos­tication. The prediction brought some jeers from a crowd of about 
1,000 who came to watch a ceremony that has been held since 1877 in this community of7.792 about 80 miles north ofPittsburgh. -AP 
A Canadian fiber expert testified yesterday he was "nearly certain" that Wayne B. Williams had some contact with three slain young blacks, including the two Williams is charged with murdering. Barry Gaudette, a scientific adviser to the Royal Canadian Mounted Police in Ottawa, said he drew the conclusion after studying fibers and hairs found on the bodies of the three vic­tims. 'Tm nearly certain there was some sort ofassociation between the victims and the environment of Wayne Williams," Gaudette'tes­tified at Williams' trial. The possibility that Williamshad not had any contact with them, he added, was "so remote as not to be worth considering." Williams, a 23-year-old black free-lance photographer and aspiring talent promoter, is charged with murdering Nathaniel Cater, 27, and Jimmy Ray Payne, 21, two of 28 young blacks whose deaths over a 22-month period have been investigated by a police 
task force. -AP 
Angry demonstratOrS marched in Damascus yes­terday denouncing the United States for vetoing sanctions against Israel at the U.N. Security Council. The demonstration by the Syrian Worker's Union protested the U.S. veto last month of a resolution suggesting nations cut economic and political ties with Israel over its annexation of the Syrian Golan Heights. Union leader Izzeddine Nasser told a news conference that Syria was "doing all in its power to end American hegemony in the area and the demonstrators have handed a letter of protest to the first secretary of the U.S. Embassy." Israel captured the Golan Heights in the 1967 Arab-Israeli War and annexed the territory last month. -AP 
George Santos. representing Student Union, asked the 
Hall Presidents Council last night for two amendments in the Stu­
dent Government's constitutions. The first proposed amendment 
seeks to make the student comptroller, or the Student Union's 
treasurer, a member of the budget committee. Since the Student 
Union controls 590,000 ofthe Student Government's budget, Santos 

said they want another voice on that committee. The second amendment would strike a clause in the constitution allowing the budget committee to propose reallocations of budget monies in mid-year. Santos said that if the budget commttec reall­ocated funds, the reallocation could raise legal questions and cause problems with the contracts the Student Union has sig t t ned. In other action: HPC announced the election oftwo new hall presidents: Fred Censc at Alumni and Jim Catalino at Dillon. Also, Dillion and Pasquerilla East are sponsoring a "Saint Valentine's Day Massacre" Feb. I I at Lee's in South Bend. The cost is $3 for all you can drink. ­
The Observer 
A delegation of 60 French industrialists and bankers 
opened talks with Soviet foreign trade organizations here Tuesday in 
an effort to expand trade between the two countries, French sources 
said. The talks arranged by the Franco-Soviet Chamber ofCommerce 
came six weeks after President Reagan asked America's allies to limit 
trade with the Soviet Union in an effort to force relaxation of martial 
law in Poland. Last month the French state-oprrated utility Gaz de 
France signed a 25-year contract with the Soviet gas exporting 
agency Soyusgaz. It calls for France to receive about 20 billion cubic 
feet ofnatural gas annually from Siberia beginning in the mid-1980s. 
-AP 
Winter stonn warningtoday. Snow accumulating 4 inches or more. Becoming windy and colder with temperatures falling into the teens this afternoon. Blowing and drifting snow developing. Chance ofsnow flurries and turning colder tonight and tomorrow. Low tonight from zero to five above. High tomorrow in the mid teens to about 20. -AP 

Wednesday, February 3, 1982 -page 2 
Another one hites the dust 
It started ~ an informal talk among friends in Holy Cross, in Carroll, in Zahm, and across the campus. The Observer saw the idea and supported it with a strong but sensible editorial. The Hall President's Council debated over it and passed a resolution recommending the logical change. The Student Senate agreed. The Campus Life Council followed suit as the hall rectors saw the obvious merits of the measure. Then one man with old, insensitive, and unintelligible ideas said "no." All the hard work, compromise, and effort for this logi­cal and sensible change had produced an argument with a foundation as solid as a redwood tree, but a care­less man just chopped it down as if it were a toothpick. 
The idea, ofcourse, was Campus Life Council Resolu­tion No.I 04, that ofpermitting kegs in hall party rooms. In the most successful manipulation ofred tape and use of university-dictated channels ever seen on this campus, the common sense idea ofallowing kegs in hall party rooms was brought before Fr. John Van Wolvlear, <:;.S.C. Despite the fact that the Hall President's Council avidly saw its merits, despite the fact that the Student Senate saw it as a logical step towards improvement of student life, and despite the tremendous fact that the 
hall rectors and the Campus Life Council agreed and supported the well-
were as overwhelming as the absurdity ofFr. Van Wolvlear's response. Not one of the four reasons listed with the rejection of the proposal·could find any concrete basis in logic. Fr. Van Wolvlear simply did not have enough integrity to tell the students that he said "no" simply because he felt like saying no. His facade of excuses did him no honor since they made him appear a babbling, illogical, and spoiled despot. 
To attack the individual reasons for the rejection of the proposal would be too simple an exercise in logic and common sense. It is obvious that Fr. Van Wolvlear considers his charge as one over little children. His reasons of rejection are nothing more than an insult to the fine Notre Dame education we have received. His statement that, " We (the administration) have a strong­er legal position by the enforcement of some restric­tions regarding the use of alcohol on campus..." is simply not true. The only real legal position the univer­sity ever had was to allow or disallow the use and pos­session of alcoholic beverages on this campus. They 
have already compromised their position in relation to 

alcohol; kegs make no diffrcnce to that position what­soever. It is unfortunate that such nonsense must be disguised as an excuse. 
But the keg proposal is not really the point here. It is only the proverbial tip of the iceberg. No matter what student government does, no matter how logical their proposals may be, and no matter how much rector and CLC support they recieve for their proposals, one per­son can end the whole effort in hopelessness. That man, whose concern is student affairs, has no concern what­soever. He listens to the students with his fingers in his ears and bases his decisions on personal feelings. The understanding, compassion, honesty, and compromise that should be associated with his position simply do not exist. A change has long since been overdue. 
It is unfortunate that the 

formulated proposal, the Vice-President ofStudent Af. fairs simply said "no" to the proposal. This insensitive man denied the proposal, and the students were again defeated. Deaf ears had become unbelievably even more closed. 
The only consolation that students have from Fr. Van Wolvlear's statement of rejection of CLC Resolution No.I 04 is that the rejection came from an apathetic ad­ministrator who obviously has no concern for the stu­dents under his jurisdiction. The logics of the proposal 
against anything we believe to be wrong, for the battles of college are insignificant compared to what faces us beyond. 
Observer notes,____-. 
The Observer newsroom welcomes information leading to the investigation of crimes in the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community. If you have wit­nessed a crime that should be reported, call our offices at 239-5303 or 5313. All sources are guaranteed confidentiality. 
The Observer is your newspaper. Comments and constructive criticism arc appreciated. Stop by our LaFortune office, give us a call, or drop a line to The Observer, P.O. Box Q., Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
The Observer is always looking for new reporters. Ifyou like to write and can devote a few hours each week to reporting, visit our office on Lafortune's third floor. Talk to one of our news editors. They'll be glad to get you started 
,..............................................................................., 
~ ~ 
I ma"Rbt G"Ras ~ 
~ =

I neeosyou!!

I
I
I 

~ Meeting for anyone interested ~ in helping the Head Committee ~with the ~ *Carnival ~ *Talent Show ~ *DanceJ6: 30 LaFortune ~ Little Theatre 
! Those people designated bv M G halli reps. to work for the Head Committee ~ are expected to attend. Everyone ~ is welcome. 
~~~~~~.........~...~~~~~·,~~~~~,_.,.~~~·~.. 

Design Editor................... Ryan no-doz v(~r Berkmoe~ 
Design Assistants .. ............ Marilyn Larkin Paul .\1cGinn Layout Staff.. ........... Bob Fink.~ike Quill ~usan Flynn. Troy llhg 7)•pesetter ..................................... ~ike Jans .Veu•sAssistant ...................... Dave Sarphie Copv Editor ........................... Steve: ~avarn· Features Layout .................... Greg Swit:rl'Z ~ports Copy Editors ........... Dave Dziedzic Pete \1anzo Tj•pists ..................................... Laura Degnan Phil Cackky 
.VD Da_v Editor .....................jot: .\1usumcd Supplemem La)•out ................... Tim Ntocly Photographer ............................ Rudy Perez Guest Appearance,· .................. Goot=y .\II ax Keenan Tumbkrs-·Hey}')'! Distant Big ft:N Swinging Grapefruits 
The Observer (USPS 598 9201 IS published Monday through Fnday and on hOme football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer 1s publiShed ,by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Mary s Col· lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semesteO by wnt1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproductiOn nghts are reserved 
Second class poslage pa1d at Notre Dame lna1ana 46556 


"Ofcourse I'm listening" 
Notre Dame student body is such a passive lot. We accept antiquated and inane rules as a part ofour lifestyles here without realizing that they are an affront to living a nor­mal life. Not too long ago there was the idea of open disobedience to similarly inane rules, but that is only studied here now in history classes. We have become passive as puppies and silent as sleep, hoping to get out in four years with our .. noses clean" and our GPA's high. But if these four years are to be truly educational, we 
must learn to fight now 

The Observer 
Vice President Bush 

Cetnent chunk nicks litnosine 
WASHINGTON (AP) Riot said the tests revealed no metal frag­the block was closed offfollowing an squads assembled, helicopters ments, but that "the object con­unconfirmed report that someone hovered, streets were blocked and tained clay and cement." had been seen in the area carrying a offices searched. But in the end, au· "We heard a loud bang and drove rifle. The street closing caused large 
thorities said it was just a chunk of on to work and that was it," Bush traffic jams among commuters 
cement that nicked the armored said later. "There really wasn't hcaded for work. limousine of Vice President George heightened tension even. There Hundreds of police swarmed into Bush as he rode to the White House wasn't anything scary about it at all." the area. Special operations officers 
Bush said that when he first heard wearing flak jackets and carrying Though the initial response cen· the bang, "I asked what it was and rifles with scopes conducted room­tered on speculation that Bush may nobody was sure ... I thought it to-room searches ofoffice buiildings have been fired upon, the police, FBI might have been a gun or some­and checked rooftops. A dozen and Secret Service jointly concluded thing." plain-clothes officers made a late in the day that "there was no as· "Nobody was injured; everybody meticulous check ofthe street itself, 
sault." 
yesterday. 
is safe. The only harm was to the collecting nails, bits of metal and 
Special agent james Boyle of the limousine," where a V-shaped gash other items that they thought could Secret Service said FBI laboratory was found on the roof, jack Warner be clues. Police helicopters circled tests had demonstrated that the ob­of the Secret Service said. He ack­overhead. ject which struck the car and nowledged there was initial Boyle later issued a statement startled the vice president and his "speculation ... it was a gunshot." saying that "The Secret Service, the 
bodyguards was "a substance consis­The episode occurred at about Metropolitan Police Department tent with the building materials 7:25a.m. said Warner. He said Bush's and the Federal Bureau of Investiga­being used in the area." 
motorcade speeded up but did not tion have concluded their investiga­A Bush spokesman, Peter Teeley, take evasive action, proceeding to tion in this matter. It has, been the White House as planned. determined that there was no assault 
Spokesmanj.C. Gentile ofthe D.C. on the vice presidential limousine." Police Department said the incident Teeley said he first spoke to Bush
Federalism 
took place on "L" Street between shortly before 8 a.m.1 and the 'vice 21st and 22nd streets, about a half· president "didn't seem at aU con­mile from the White House. He said cerned" about the ·incident.

affects cityprojects 
Editor's note: President Reagan's proposal to transfer more than 40 federal programs, from food stamps to black lung clinics, to state control would revolutionize the way Americans meet many so­cial needs. In the third ofa five-part series, AP writer Martin Crutsinger exami11es the effects ofthe proposal 011 urban planning. 
BY MARTIN CRUTSINGER 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON (AP) -In the 
long list of federal acronyms, CDBG 
and UDAG don't ring bells with 
many people. But they are the suc­
cessor programs of a federal com­
mitment made in 1949 to revitalize 
America's cities -a commitment 
Prcsident Rcagan wants to cunail 
sharply. 
Under Rcagan's "new federalism" 
plan, two of the 43 fedcral programs 
slated to be turned over to state con­
trol art· Community Dcvelopment 
Block Grants and Urban Dcvelop­
rnent Action Grants. 
While those names arc unfamiliar 
to most Americans, the impact ofthe 
two programs is evidt·nt to nearly 
everybody who lives in a city. Ad· 
ministcrcd by the: Dcpartmcnt of 
Housing and Urban Development, 
CDBG and UDAG funnel about 1!4 
billion annually to cities big and small ti1r an array of development projects. 
Over the years, the grants have hn·n uscd to tear down slums, fix up homes, install sewers, build parks and community centers, and provide subsidies to businesses wil­ling to locate in dcprcsscd arcas. 
It had many names -Urban Renewal, Urban Dcvclopmcnt, Model Cities -but the same goal: bring dccaying urban arcas hack to life:. 
The governmcnt first became in­
volved in urban renewal in the 
Truman administration. Congress 
passt·d the Housing Act of 1949. It 
made the federal government a 
partner with cities in cleaning up 
slum areas. 
Acity would buy the land, clear it 
and sell it for about one-third its cost 
to a business willing to move in and 
build a new apartment building, fac­
tory or shopping ccntcr. 
The difft·rcnl·c between what the: cities spent for the: land and sold it t(Jr was paid by Uncle Sam. 
The Urban Redevelopment program bcgat Open Space, Model Cities, Urban Beautification, Urban Rcnewal. In 1974, after a four-year effort, the Nixon administration succeeded in combining all the programs into one. 
manbatoRy meetmer ~oR all paRtJCJpatmG m 
toRonto exchanqe 
thURS, ~€B. 4 6:30pm 


----~-----~--, 
Wednesday, February 3, 1982-page 3 
11/ami

.75 cents 
~~' Ironwood
ed & Thurs, ~t\\0 E Fri · 9 till closing 
•+s 


w 
Campus 


*********************************~ 
! S.A.P.B. presents ;E It's -Snow Surprise Week at E ; St. Mary's Feb. 2-7 ! * *
* Tues.-ice skating on Lake Marion * ~ 7-11 free hot chocolate ;* *
! Wed.-Co-ed volleyball night ! * *
t 9-10:30 Angela A.F. ! 
** Thurs.-Movie ** 
* *
* hasbeen * !* -CANCELLED * : * *
* *
! Fri.-SNOW DAY! ! : senior bar special: frozen drinks ! * * 
;sat.-cross country skiing 2:00 instructional: ~ lesson-Angela A.F. tours thru SMC ! ! nature trails ski rentals: only $1 an ! * hour. * * * 
: Sun.-Judging of hall : 
* snow sculpture contest. *; * * 
;~~~~~~*
* *
* * 
~******************************** 
After your lastexam, whattoughquestions will youstillbe facing? 

Wdon't have your answers. But we'll listen to your questions, 
share some of our own about who we want to become and where we want to journey. For anyone who has considered the path of priesthood, the Holy Cross Fathers' One-Year Candidate Program provides an opportunity to ask and explore the possibilities in community. 
II 
Contoct' Rev. Andre levelllo. C.S.C. 
Vocation Director Box 541 

Notre Dome, IN 46556 
(219) 239-6385 

~---~----~--------~-~--------~-------~----...---­
The Observer Wednesday, February 3, 1982 -page 4 
...WSND 
_ Tom Nessinger, station manager, is primarily concerned with budgetary changes this semester. Money is spent updating equipment, getting new turntables, and a new cartridge deck. Most of these 
_changes occur behind the scenes. Nevertheless, Tom relates, "It was my idea to play up the birthday." 
Lynn Forthaus, will compile and execute a marketing survey on WSND this semester. Students will be surveyed regarding their radio and music preferences. "We need to find out more about our audience," adds Lynn. "The marketing survey was never done before, but it is needed. It is a major project, and is being aided by marketing students for .objectivity." 
"Will WSND get the WNDU build­ing scheduled to evacuated by this fall?" is a question many are wonder­ing. As far as WSND is concerned, no one knows, even WNDU. Tom Nes­singer notes, "If we were going to get the station, I think I'd know about it by now. In my opinion, it's best not to move the station -we could expand here in O'Shag. 
"The cost of moving to WNDU would be great, and WSND could not afford to move unless WNDU paid for the move. So, the probabil­ity of WSND moving to the old 
WNDUfu~h~~hlgh~nn~el~" 




Hofman 
•

recetves award 
Emil T. Hofman, dean ofthe Fresh­man Year ofStudies and professor of chemistry at the University of Notre Dame, has been named the fifth recipient of the James E. Armstrong Award given by the Notre Dame Alumni Association. , 
The award, originated in 1978 to memorialize the first executive secretary of the assoetauon, recognized a University employee "who has performed outstanding service and demonstrated qualities in h~ personal life that reflect the high principles ofthe University." 

Hofman joined the Notre Dame chemistry faculty in 1953, the same year he received a master's degree from the University. He received hls doctorate from Notre Dame in 1963. While developing innovative in­structional methods as a chemistry professor, Hofman also served as as­sistant chairman of that department and·as assistant dean of the College of Science. Many of his contribu­tions to more effective teaching came as a result of many years ex­perience with as many as 800 stu­dents a year in general chemistry courses. His multi-faceted career at the University also includes having served as director of the Teacher Training Institute, director of the Freshman Chemisty Program, direc­tor of the Undergraduate Research 
Participation Program, chairman of the Challenges in Science meetings and as a member of the executive committee of the University Cur­riculum Study Council. 
Since his appointment in 1971 as dean of Freshman Year of Studies program, Hofman has supervised a revision of the first year curriculum and placed a new emphasis upon counseling. His previous honors in­clude the 1963 Thomas j. Madden Award for excellence in teaching freshmen. 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, will present the award during an alumni banquet on April 30. 

r......rfle.................................... 




iNJZz[ 
TO PLAY THE GAME: 
Answer each of the riddles that will appear here each week in February. Write your answer in the blanks below each riddle. The letters with numbers below them corres­pond to the numbered spaces in the master key. As you fill in the letters of the master key, you will be spelling the name and location of a secret city in Europe. Send us the solution, and you and a friend could win a trip there, free. 
TO ENTER SWEEPSTAKES: 
1. NO PURCHASE NECESSARY.
2: Grand Prize consists of two regular round-trip economy airfares to the secret city, 30-day Eurail passes, American Youth Hostel passes, two backpacks and $1000 in cash. 
3. 
Cut out master key for use as official entry blank or use 3" x 5" card. Print your answer along with your name and address. Mail to Secret City SweepstakP.s, P.O. Box 6018, Norwalk, CT 06852. 

4. 
The first 1,000 correct respondents will receive a poster as an entry prize. 


5. All entries must be received by 3/15/82. Enter as often as you ~ wish, but each entry must be mailed separately. 
6. 
A random drawing of all correct entries will be held 3/22/82 by the Highland Group, an independent judging organization whose decision is final. 

7. 
Sweepstakes void where prohibited, taxed or otherwise restricted. 

8. 
All potential winners may be required to sign an affidavit of eli­gibility to verify compliance with the rules within 30 days of receipt of same. For a list of prize winners, send self-addressed, stamped envelope to Secret City Sweepstakes c/o Highland Group, 16 8 12 


Knight St., Norwalk, C'r 06851. 
CjeNeRAL fOODS® INTeRNATIONAL COffees 

MAKe ~000 COMPANY.
© General Foods Corporation 1982 
G£N£RAI Food> GEi'<mAI Food>.
INHRNATiONAI CotfE£5 1Nr£nNllrior.•l CotfE£5 
,,,, .. ,,,,,u•••""''''''''"''''''''''''''''''''''"''''' 
FRI.NFEBRUARY 5. ACC
8 pm otre Dame Tickets-s7 .50 & s9.50 (s2.00 offon s7.50 ticket for ND SMCstudents)On Sale-ACC Box Office 9 ~&n to 5pm 
cont'dfrom page I 
reporting was found to be unsuc­
cessful, and reporters are now given 
daily assignments. LeDuc adds, 
"We're really getting on the ball 
with our reporting." 
The news sector currently broad­casts information 1 1 times daily be­.Jween the AM and and FM channels. A longer special or an ed~itori:ll is regualarly featured on the 6 p.m. news. Campus reaction to various events will also be broadcast biweekly at 6 p.m.; 60-second inter­views with NO or SMC students will unearth their feelings about specific 
issues. 
The news department will be 
following a special outline for 
newscasts this semester, and end ad­
lib presentations. "We're finally get· 
ting used to following a new 
format," LeDuc noted. 
The topics of the features will be 
altered this term, including a 
planned series or special on Reagan 
cutbacks. Another change may be 
the addition ofa new wire machine. 
No major program change will oc­
cur within the sports department of 
WSND, but there will be a change in 
the content ot the programs. 
The sports sector currently offers 
ten special five-minute focuses Mon­
day thru Friday at 12 and 6 p.m. on 

interhall and low-key varsity ND/SMC athletics. These are sports the students care about but are ofno 'real' interest to the public. "WSND can boast it is the only station that covers all NO sports," states Brian Reimer, sports director. 
The sports department will con­tinue to offer 3-5 minute sports sum­maries on both AM and FM, although the FM broadcasts deal mainly wih national sporting events. The sports section has its own news staff to do 
all  reporting,  as  well  as  an  As­ 
sociated Press  infor mation line.  
WSND-AM  will  continue  live  

broadcasts of all home football, bas­ketball, and hockey games with play­by-play action. The purpose ofthese broadcasts is to offer an alternative to the South Bend stations and to give the sportscasters an oppor­tunity to gain experience in radio 
broadcasting. The station also offers play-by-play action of as many road games as it can afford. 
This semester, improvement of campus sporting events is a goal of the sports department. For the an­niversary, commercial messages during the play-by-play segments will mention the birthday. Brian Reimer adds,"It is hard to get every­thing going; everyone is learning their job, so problems do occur." 
~--------~-----------------------------------
THe QUesT Of THe secReT CITY 


-sweepsTAKes 
heres a city in Eur?Pe-you could travel there free. So unravel these nddles and . ktJ'\1

' uncover rts 
L-J' 





----------------------·------­
The Observer 
ND/SMC 


College Bowl regionals 

ByANNEKWAK 
Neu•sStaff 
Nine Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College students are once again preparing to participate in the Collge Bowl Regionals, which will be held this weekend, Feb. S and 6, at the University ofIllinois, in Cham­paign. 
The College Bowl is a radio quiz show, in which two teams made up offour players each compete against each other by answering questions quickly and correctly. The qustions The Saint Mary's team will be arc from all academic fields, so represented by Katherine Bernardi, general knowlt:dgc is important. JcanAnn Georgas, Antoinette 
Notre Dame and SMC will be par­Hubble, Barbi Zuest, and Karen Pink ticipating in region nine ofthe Bowl, as an alternate. The players were which includes competition with chosen from a campus tournament schools from Indiana and Illinois. 
which was held last semester. Among the schools represented will 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's have be Purdue, University ofIllinois, and been involved in the College Bowl 
Indiana University. for over twenty years, and according Representing Notre Dame will be to Notre Dame coach, Dr. Peter 
Ed Bylina, Scott jacobs, Paul Lombardo, "we've always been very DiNardo, and Ray Davis, with Mike well represented." Kristo as an alternate. 

AtSMC 

Committee assesses '82 programs 
By SUE MURDOCK at the past and assess finished and News Staff unfinished business and to look at the short and long range goals of the 
The status of current programs association." was the major topic discussed at the The association, which acts as offi· winter meeting of tht> Executive cia! channels of communication be-Committtoe of Saint Mary's Colkge tween alumnae and the College, Alumnae Association last Thursday sponsors a legacy breakfast for fresh-and l'riday. men and their mothers, a Memorial 
Mrs. Maryjeanne Ryan Burke, Mass Card, and a "Runabout" shuttle prl·sidcnt oftht.> association, said the service which picks up students purpose ofthl· mel·ting was to "look from the airport during the first 
============================== 
DeaflaUJyer asks use ofcomputer system 
WASIIIN<iTON (AI') The Suprl'lnc Court must decide whl·thcr to break its zealously guardl·d traditions by allowing a deaf lawyer to usc an elaborate com­puter and video display system during oral arguments bcti.>r<: the 
justices this spring. 
Michael Chatoff. rcprl'Sl'nting a deaf schoolgirl in a key case involv­ing the educational rights of the handicapped, has asked the justices to let him usc the system in what would bl· the tirst proceeding of its kind before the high court. 
"lie docs not want to let someone else argue the case," Supreme Court Clerk Alexander Stevas said Tues­day. 
"He points out in the letters (to the court) that it would enhance the procedure in other courts" if the Supreme Court allows the system's usc, Stevas added. Except for the official court 
I' recording apparatus, no cameras, 
. . . Dozier 
conI'dfrom page I 
the lirst political kidnapping of an American in Italy. 
Italian newspapers and some magistrates have said there is evidence of links between Italian terrorist groups and foreign intel· ligcnce services. But Dozier said his captors gave him no indication at all ofoutside support. 
"They assured me they were 
Italian communists," he said. 
Dozier appl·ared relaxed and oc· 
casionally drew laughter from near­
ly ISO reporters and photographers 
with his comments on how the ter­
rorists overestimated his command 
of Italian, and how he argued with 
his captors over the type of music 
they forced him co listen to through 
earphones. 
"Right from the beginning I was 
forced to wear earphones through 
which music was played. Some of 
the tapes they would play were what 
I would call hard rock, and those of 
you who never heard hard rock for 
eight or nine hours ought to try it 
some time. I don't see how teen­
agers do it," Dozier said. He said fO(.'k was later replaced by semi­classical music. 
tape recorders or other similar 
devices arc allowed in the 
courtroom while the Supreme 
Court is in session. 
The ban is one of the most 
zealously guarded traditions in the 
court's 192-ycar history. 
It even led to the abrupt ejection of a White House aide who tried to enter the courtroom with a tape re­corder during last September's swcaring-in ceremonies for Justice Sandra Day O'Connor. The aide's job is to record all ofthe public words of President Reagan, who attended the proceedings in the courtroom. 
Under Chatoffs plan, Stcvas said, a stenographer in the courtroom would relay the justices' questions to a computer outside the 
courtroom. The computer would flash them back in written form on a video-display terminal so that Chatoff, who is able to speak, could respond. 
week ofschool. 
The association also is responsible for the resume typing seryice for seniors and the Alumnae-Senior Brunch, in which seniors are official· ly received into the Alumnat" As­sociation: This year's brunch will be held May I. 
Describing the· board as " a working board," Mrs. Burke mcn­tioned two particular accomplish­ments of the board this year. One 
was the fall tailgater for students and 
Alumnae. The other was the addi­tion of a student alumnae commis­sioner to the board. This student commissioner acts as a liason be· tween the student body and the As­sociation. 
One of the major responsibilities of the Alumnae Association is to recruit students to Saint Mary's. The board also raises funds to meet the needs ofthe College. 
Mrs. Alana Moynahan Rosshirt, one of the board members, stressed the need for alumnae contributions. "It takes two things to run the Col­lege, highly qualified students and money," she said. 
She pointed out that years ago money was not discussed nor sought, resulting in few contribu­tions. "Now," she said "women arc starting to have their own money and arc willing to contribute. More so than the older classes." 

Mora/lecture rescheduled 
Rev. Bryan Hehir, scheduled to lecture on "The Christian Moral Vi­sion," tonight at 7:30p.m. in Carroll Hall, Saint Mary's, has been res­cheduled for Mar. 3 . 


SOPHOMORES, 
J-URIOllS, 



SIRlOllS 
If your goal is to bt.-come a professional, you owe it to yourself not to overlo0k any opportunities that will help you reach that goal. THE NAVY PILOT (20/20 vision is required) is the finest in the world, flying a variety of sophisticated high performance aircraft. THE NAVAL FLIGHT OFFICER (vision correctible to 20120) is the quarterback of the Naval Aviation Team with wide-ranging exper­tise from state-of-the-art Data Processing to Master Tactician. If you are a college graduate, or are within 3 years of graduation, wanting to get your feet off the ground and earn over S27,000 a year within four years and attend the world's mostprestigious flight school 

Wednesday, February 3, 1982-page 5 


is now featuring poster art from the sunny Southwest. Framing plain or fancy 
In the 100 Center, Mishawaka 
259-8538 
Ct'ntact your llavy representatives on campus 10 and 11 february. Sign up for an interview in the Placement Office or call 1-800-881-9<104 or call collect (817) 169-6197 



Wednesday, February 3, 1982 -page 6
Editorials 

Promises, promises:The 'raw deal?' 
Will wonders never cease? Presi­ment should go to his local cusable. doesn't trust the program, why dent Reagan continues to amaze and municipality for local services, the And we arrive at the central should the rest of the country? confuse analysts of his policies, next largest to his state government, problem (and test) of the Reagan Ad­Reagan himself said that October I Anthony Walton economic and other. Reagan's and the smallest to the federal ministration. When are we going to would be the beginning of a new at­"what I meant to say was," his "we government, which would provide see some results from all this talk, titude and atmosphere; instead the 
must be patient," and his "it took 40 national security and coordination. some action to back up the rhetoric? country is suffering from the worst 
years to get us into this mess, we But this is not the way the world Reagan says " I refuse to balance the unemployment since 1930, and it 
can't get out overnight" obfuscate works. budget on the backs of the tax­will get worse before it gets better. American-renewaC .~together we and divert attention from the issues The first question is, who pays for payers," then goes and does it. Who The prime rate is rising again and the have made a new beginning... " and prevent real discussion. Anyone this? Federal taxes cannot be realisti­else besides the everyday American stock market is falling. By running Well, after one year the only who criticizes the president "doesn't cally cut any further, or else the can be said to be enduring real risk in up the deficit, Reagan undermines Americans to have tangibly benefited have faith in America and deficit will swallow the economy. Reagan's program? He says "Wait, his own program, which is hinged on from his 'renewal' are the rich. And, Americans," which makes all critics State taxes will have to be raised. we must have faith," which isn't closing the deficit in order to free up if the programs should fail, there will somehow unpatriotic. With the current tax relief euphoria much solace if your unemployment loan money, funds that are crucial to be economic disaster. It will take But (and with this president, there sweeping the country, states will be benefits are running out. business expansion, the housing in­years to rebuild that which Reagan is is always a but) Reagan keeps giving extremely reluctant to increase their How long will the country have to dustry, and the automobile industry. dismantling in the name of progress. anyone save true believers cause for taxes enough to pay for the wait? The standard reply is "He's What we are looking at after And in the end, it is all based on a concern with his statements and programs. The president makes it only had a year," but his programs Ronald Reagan's first year is a case wing and a prayer. Most presidents policies. Hot off the tax-exemption sound as if it will be a neat little are based on good faith and expecta­of 'promises.' He has stated "The don't live up to their promises, it 
controversy, the bluster over Poland 'trade,' but current evidence points tions, and these should have started record is clear, and I believe history comes with the job; few exact so high and the continuing deterioration of otherwise. developing already. If business will remember this as an era of a price. the economy Reagan comes up with The disparity of states' welfare yet another blockbuster, the "New programs are overwhelming (Texas, Federalism." one of the nation's richest states, 
And so the broken record keeps pays one of the lowest benefits, while playing. And for this week's install­Michigan, on the verge of 
ment of "What's Wrong With bankruptcy, grants one of the hig­Ronnie" we move to Washington, hest) and it is clear that some states D.C., site of last week's State of the will simply not accept responsibility Union address. for the welfare programs. What hap­
Reagan unveiled "a bold and pens to the disadvantaged of these spirited initiative that can change the states? They move to other states face of American government." He with better benefits. So, certain wasn't kidding. This "neo-New states can 'export' their poor to. more Deal" would return $47 billion dol­compassionate states. lars worth of federal programs to the The "New Federalism" opens the states for administration. The reason­possibility of the disenfranchisement ing behind this is that it would be of whole segments of the population. more efficient for the states to ad­A president that was truly concerned minister their own welfare, highway with everyone in the country would and environmental programs because not even open this possibilty. This is the money would not be tied up in the much the same thing that Reagan did federal bureaucracy. in the Bob Jones tax exemption case; 
On the surface, this does not seem whether it is naivete or deliberate in­
like a bad idea. It would appear that tent to take advantage, it is inex­
logically a citizen's largest tax pay­

'Neo-liberalism' has hollow ring 

Esquire magazine has discovered success of neoconservatives in the neoconservatives were.largely, FDR glamorizes the Kennedy years as Democrats who felt challenged by
a new movement, that of the Reagan administration. tough, pragmatic, anti-bureaucratic,
the products of their own teaching-·

"neoliberals," in the Senate offeces The parallel has its points, non-ideological. In order to get his Garry Wills antiwar students, affirmati t ve action
of Gary Hart, Paul Tsongas and Bill enough, anyway, to tease the mind if results, he has to play fast and loose 
and a recognition that Palestinians

Bradley. The suggested parallel is not convince. Sen. .Patrick with the facts. with the "neoconservatives." Moynihan, the neoflamboyant, sees may have some rights too. The He revives the hoary legend that 
Outrider 

Democrats are trying to repeat the enough similarity to dance in, oc­neoliberals are JFK Democrats who the Bay of Pigs failed because Ken­casionally, on both acts. The feel challenged by the same things 
nedy trusted the bureaucracy, not But the parallel is more likely to 
his own men. But the moving force the "end of ideology" nonsense of mislead than enlighten. For one 
on the Bay of Pigs, Richard Bissell, the 'SO's. Their problem is clearly to thing, the neoconservatives 
was Kennedy's own man --as much purge themselves of what the elec­
P.O. BoxQ 
switched parties, which meant that 

as McGeorge Bundy was or Robert torate currently considers the ex­they could not run for office them­
McNamara. Dean Rusk had tried to cesses of the civil rights movement,the hall. I felt that way for a moment, selves but had to support candidates 
appoint Bissell to the Kennedy State the environmental movement andCritic offends then realized that these performers --first Nixon, then Reagan --with Department, but Kennedy would . the antiwar movement. The prag­
put in much time and deserve more older bases and broader con­

not let him --he was grooming Bis-matism of the neoliberal looks, in Dear Editor; The critique of· 'The credit than he sees fit to give them. stituencies. The neoconservatives sell to be his very own director of this light, more like opportunism.
Keenan Revue" was unusual. In one Does he honestly feel that the efforts were jaundiced academicians wil­the CIA. Bissell impressed Kennedy And the odd thing is that this may 

breath the author, Ryan Yer could have been improved? If a per­ling to hold their noses and form and was able to escalate the Cuban not even be enlightened cynics.

Berkmoes, criticizes that the "bulk son is trying his or her best to enter­ranks with the Moral Majority, the 

resistance movement authorized by fhese "new leaders" want to of humor was at someone's expense, tain, one should remember the very old right and various superannuated Eisenhower into an amphibious in-capture Reagan's audience and 
and in another calls the Dancin' Irish powerful phrase, "If you can't say cold warriors. They joined a coali­vasion. Kennedy's own investigating remain Democrats. But when 

"halftime herfer's." He tries to give anything nice don't... " tion, as one element within it. 

team found that, after the Bay ofPigs, Reagan gets through dismantling as 
an accurate picture of the Revue but 

I have not yet met anybody who The neoliberals, by contrast, are Eisenhower's national security mac-many government services as he the point is missed. If Mr. Yer was in the least offended by the primarily officeholers and higher· 
hinery would have caught and can, the need to rebuild is going to Berkmoes had read the program of Revue. I have met people offended office seekers within the 
eliminated the military absurdities be more obvious than the need for 
the show he would have found that by Mr. Yer Berkmoes' critique. Democratic Party. They are hoping of Bissell's free-wheeling plot. further demolition. The'' .. the Revue is indeed a problematic Everyone associated with the Revue, to form a new coalition around Peters also glorifies the missile "discredited" causes of peaceart form, but we (Keenan hall) ask from the ushers to the performers themselves. While claiming that 

crisis ultimatum, unnecessary in it-human rights and te environment you not to judge the Revue on the deserve a great deal more credit than JFK's dream was dissipated by the 
self, which left the outcome for the are going to look very good after basis of artistic criteria, but rather on is given them. The only thing Keenan mushiness ofJohnson and the ideol­Russians to decide. The neoliberals Reagan's assault on them is, in its a ·fun quotient.'" He , nevertheless, asked was that the audience be ogy of .\1cGovern. they hope to want to outgrow! Reagan with turn, discredited. So it is probablypoints out that a musician's perfor-. 
generous. 

revive the myths ofCamelot. "intelligent" new defense thinking a bad politics, as well as bad morality, mance was ·competent' and that 
This is seen in the guru of the Ia Robert McNamara. to abandon the causes that"Mr. Roger's" and "The Price is Tony Di Spigno movement. Charles Peters. the It is hard to think reasonably intel-neoliberals themselves onceRight'' should have been left back at 
ZahmHall editor of Washington Monthly, who ligent men can buy, all over again, believed in. 
Editorial Board
==Ih~Obser~ver=-== 

l:'ditor-in-Cbief........ . ............. John McGrath Founded November 3, 1966 
Executiue .'Vews Editor..... ..... Kdli flint !,ports Editor.......... ................... Skip Desjardin The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the Neu•s Editor.............. .David Rickabaugh 
Photo Editor......... .. .......................John Macor University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily !):We Executir•e Editor....... ... Mary Agnes Care~ Editorials Editor ......................Anthony Walton reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report­
SMC .Veu•s Editor.................. ..Cathy Domanico Features Editor ................... ..... Gregory Swiercz ed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are th_e views Department Managers of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and 
Business .'.tanager. ........ Rich Coppola Production.\lanager ..... Michael Monk
the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, ii eocounged. 

Controller........................ . .......... .Joe Mulflur Circulation .'.tanager ............Tom .\facLennan Adz•ertising Manager ....................... Chris Owen S)•stems .Hanager ............ Bruce Oalde~
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 




Wednesday, February 3, 1982-page 7 
Stork, Shafer discuss Mardi Gras expectations 

l:'ditor's Note: Mardi Gras Co-chairmen jim Stork anti AndyShafer recent~y discussed their expectatirms for the upcoming event with Observer reportersjim Plamondon and 
Trlcia /Iuber/}'. 


jim Stork/ Andy Shafet 
Q: What are the major activities sponsored by .l1tlrdi Gras this year? 
A: This year wt· have three activities. There will ht· a c:trnival on the weekend of February c;, 6, and 7. Tht·n then: will be a number of booths run by the halls. There will also he 
clowns, jugglers. and musicians, and WSND will he there. It should he a lot offun. There is a talent show on Friday, February 12, run by Mark Davis, composed mostly of Nazz talent. There will be all kinds ofcomedy and musical acts. It will he dosed out by the jazz group "Clydes". The major event is the dance-a-thon and it runs from I p.m. to I a.m. on February 13. 
Q: flou• is tht• 1982 Mardi Gras different from previousyears? 
A: The past Mardi Gras have been weeklong activities, where the halls constructed a booth and ran a gambling-type operation for the week. Then pt·oplc could come in and play blat·kjack and craps, etc. We've taken that idea and broken it down into three phases: the car­nival, tht· show, and the dance-a-thon. We've trit:d to keep it more than a one event activity. and retain more of a Mardi Gras spirit. We've 
put the best of Notrc Daml"s talent in a show that will he fun for all. Then, tht.· dance-a-thon will still give the opportunity to make a lot of money for charity. 
By MICHELE DIETZ, RICH COLLIS, and CINDY COLDIRON 
Neu•s Sltl/f 
The advent of a new Mardi Gras format 
brought with it a mixed student reaction. Just. 
what did students have to say about Mardi 
Gras 19H2? 
In a random tckphont· survey of Notre Dame and St. Mary's students, several ques­tions were asked rt·garding the appeal of this yt·ar's earnival/dance·a-thon format. ."lany of those questioned kit that this year's plans would not be as good as activities in years 
I. Are you aware ofthe changes made for this year's Mardi Gras? 
2. 
Do you like the new plans for Mardl Gras '82? 

3. 
Do you think Mardi gras will be better this year than in past years? 

4. 
Do you think Mardl gras will be a success? 


S. Do you plan to participate in any Mardi Gras activities? 
Q:W~y did this change occur? 
A: 
The change came about because Bishop .'vl.cManus decided it was time for the diocese to obey the Indiana State statute prohibiting gambling. His mandate has stopped the bingo and the Mardi Gras as they had been in the past. 

Q: What isyouropinion ofthe change? 

A: 
In my opinion, I think we arc going to have something that was more fun than last year. A lot of people didn't really like going out and gambling. This year you can still go out and win prizes, you can still see the talent, and, if you want to become an active par-. ticipant, the dancc-a-thon is tht· way to do that. 


Q:llave there been any negatiz,e reactions towards the new .Ilardi Gras? 
A: We really haven't had much m:gative reaction -there's a little griping with people who did like the gambling last year and can't understand why gambling isn't a possibility 

th~yca~~~areact~nofnotunder~and~g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
what is going on. Once we tell them what is going on, the halls arc very cooperative in trying to gt·t their booths lined up. They like the protits and the chance to get involved in it. Overall student reaction has been very positive. 
Q: What areyourfinancial expectations? 
A: This year ifpeople who have signed up to participate in the .dance-a-thon sell all their tickets, we will bring in $30,000. With the low overhead we've incurred, most of that should go to charity. Anything the carnival raises will be in addition to that amount. I would hope that anyone who did sign up at least makes a serious attempt at selling the tickets. If someone can't dance or. didn't sign up, I hope that they would be supportive and purchase a ticket from one of the dancers. The key to the tlnancial succ~ss will be the dance-a-thon. It's hard to estimate how financially successful the carnival will be -if we get big crowds, that could also be successful. 
see Q&A, page 10 

Mardi Gras changes 
Phone survey shotvs mixedreactions 
past. 
Students favored the casino format of for­mer years ocr the carnival games, talent show and marthon dancing planned by more than two to one. Said one Kecnanite, "The loss of gambling was a big blow that people are not going to get used to." Student Union director Bill Lawlor felt that juniors and seniors were apt to be more disappointed in the new format than freshman and sophomores. Junior Linda Hoyer commented "To me it's no longer Mardi Gras. It's not symbolic. We've lost the tradition." Maureen .\-tara, a senior, also said. "It won't be the same. Gambling was the best 
YES  NO  NOT SURE/ NO COM MEN,  
7'; pet  Hpct  I pet  
--1l) pet  22 pet  29 pet  
20 pet  --16pn  34 pet  
"'·~pel  Hpct  1.~pet  
83 pct  II pl.'!  6 pet  


McDonnell directs changes in 1982 Mardi Gras format 
By MICHAEL WILKINS 
Sla_ffReporter 

The fate of Mardi Gras at the Notre Dame campus was the topic of much thought last year when Bishop William McManus issued a directive prohibiting bingo and other forms of gambling at functions under the jurisdiction of the Ca~holic Diocese of Fort Wayne-South Bend. 
But with plans for this year's Mardi Gras al­ready completed and the date of the event drawing near, it appears as if Bishop McManus's directive could be a blessing in disguise. 
"After the directive came out, we stopped what we were doing, re-examined, and asked 
part. I don't think they'll make much money." Most students who were dissatist1cd with the new plans agreed with these sentiments. 
Other complaints inncludcd criticisms of the celebration's weekend-only plans and that the dorms are renting booths instead ofbuild­ing them. Senior Andrea lmbriaco said, "Having it on weekdays provided a rt·al break. It was more like a week long festival." 

Everyone surveyed, howcver,did not respond negatively. In fact,some were excited, especially about the dance-a-thon. Sophomore Greg Hatticld remarked. "I like the idea of a danee-a-thon. This will add stu­dent participation besides just money. And there is still a game atmosphere without the gambling." Junior .\-tarybcth \-looney, when asked if she liked the new Mardi Gras answered, "I think it's good they didn't let it die just because of (the loss of) gambling. it shows we didn't just give up." 
A few students mentioned a lack ofstudent participation and cooperation in comparison to other years. Survey tigures here contrarily show that student participation will be 83 per­cent, a better than four to one majority. However, some felt that there is a general lack of publicity for the activities. One fourth of the students polled were not aware of the changes in Mardi Gras beyond the fact that gambling was not allowed. 
see SURVEY, page 10 

the students 'Do you want to have a Mardi Gras, and ifyou do, how arc you going to plan it?' The needs of the community were so great that the students.rcalized that Mardi Gras was a very important event to the local charities that benefitted from it," commented Dr. 
James McDonnncll, Director of Student Ac­tivities. 
Though virtually every parish has been forced to increase tuitions and make appeal for more contributions in an effort to make up the appeals for more contributions due to the loss caused by the limit on gambling, this year's Mardi Gras has the potential to be one ofthe biggest money makers ever, accordinng to McDonnncll. 
"By changing the structure of Mardi Gras, 
we can actually raise more money for 
charity," said Andy Shafer, co-chairm tan ofthe 
event. 
Tht· change in structure for this year's 
Mardi Gras includes a change in the days 
planned f<>r the cvcnt.according to Shafer. 
Mardi Gra.~ will bt· a five day event, covering 
two week-ends this year, instead of the tradi­
tional nine day affair. 
The biggest change is tht• nature of the 
events planned. Instead ofa Monte Carlo-type 
atmospht·re, this year's Mardi Gras will rely o·n 
three dift'erent events to supply tht· bulk ofac­
tivities, Shafer noted. 
Included in the list of planned events is a Dancc-A-Thon in the ACC, a carnival in Stepan Center, and the Best of Mardi Gras Talent Show. These projects will generate virtually all of the revenue taken in by Mardi Gras. An­other item new to Mardi Gras this year will bt· New Orleans style food, which became a favorite of students after last year's Sugar Bowl. 
The potential to make money from these events is great, according to McDonnell. The Dancc-A-Thon has set a goal of 500 dancers each selling S60 worhth of tickets. The car­nival ha.o; been planned at one-tenth ofthe cost of the former Monte Carlo format, and the Best of Mardi Gras Talent Show is sure to be a hit, with magician Mark Davis serving as host. 
The Student Activities Commission, along with the Mardi Gras committee, has put hundreds of hours of work into preparing and presenting the new Mardi Gras format, but it is still up to the students to make the plan work, McDonnnell noted. "We don't know if this is going to be successful or not, but there's great potential. If everybody who studies and works here does his or her part, It will be a tremendous success." 

The Observer-Mardi Gras Wednesday, February 3, 1982 -page 8 
Amounts Given to Charities and Service Organizations, . 1979-1982 
23,000 25 (projected) 
20 
15 
10 
5 

0 Year 1979 1980 1981 1982 (Figuresprovided by Louise Nye, Bookkeeper) 
This year's Mardi Gras should raise more money 
By MARK WORSCHEH costs have cut into the profits in recent years. StaffReporter He said that this year's decision to rent car­nival booths will cost one-tenth ofthe price of Mardi Gras Co-chairmen Andy Shafer and constructing booths from scratch. McDonnell Jim Stork say they hope to reverse a three-year added, "If everyone buys one ticket, Mardi trend of declining amounts available to Gras will be a tremendous success and will be charity. According to James McDonnell, better able to suppon charities than it ever 
Director of Student Activities, high overhead has." 
Proceeds to benefit 35 
Mardi Gras for 1982 features 'three-ring'events 
By CECILIA LUCERO 
News Staff 
Shades of high-rolling excitement from Mardi Gras past come to mind again as preparations for the annual Notre Dame en­deavor for charities moves into full force. 
Due to a mandate issued by Bishop McManus last year which prohibits gambling in Catholic institutions, Mardi Gras Commit­tee members have devised a new format to accomodate fund-raising activities. Rather than the casino setting ofprevious Mardi Gras festivals, the 1982 event promises an even more enter-raining "three-ring" showcase consisting ofa Carnival, a talent/variety show, and a Dance-a-thon. 
Opening the agenda ofMardi Gras activities will be a Carnival held at Stepan Center from Feb. 5-7. Carnival chairman Mark Manley, from Morrissey, describes the event as a "festive money-games atmosphere" in the spirit of Mardi Gras tradition. Despite the ab­sence ofbooth-buildingcompetition between the dorms this year, hall involvement in the Carnival remains enthusiastic. 
Each hall chooses to manage different game booths and prizes provided and set up by B. J. Braun, Inc., a professional carnival company from Chicago. Fifteen percent of the profits that each of the individual booths makes will be received by the particular dorm. Remain­ing profits will be donated to the various charities. 
Other activities highlighting the Carnival feature music by WSN"D and special attrac­tions such as Notre Dame's own student magicians. 
The spotlight then moves to a talent/variety show on Friday, February 12 at 9:00 p.m. in Chautaqua. Produced and coordinated by senior Mark Davis, a Resident Assistant from Howard, the program is a sampling ofstudent performers -"class acts" as Davis proudly calls them. Although "amateur" in status, the talented group is in essence every bit the professional. 
Some reservations 
Administration favors new format 
By MARK BOENNIGHAUSEN 
StaffReporter 
The Notre Dame Administration finds the 

changes in this year's Mardi Gras generally 
favorable although the new format may cause 
problems. 
Fr. john Van Wolvlear, Vice President of Student Affairs, and Dr. James McDonnell, Director of Student Activities, are optimistic that the upcoming Mardi Gras will be very successful. 
Van Wolvlear commented that he is "very 
Schedule of Mardi Gras Events 
Carnival 
Fridav Februarv 5, ..,:00 p.m.-J:l)() a.m. 
9:00p.m. Pie Throwin~ Audion 
Buy a pie to throw al Don Murday, Skip Desjardin ami Hart Greene. 
Saturday February 6, I:00 p.m.-1:00 a.m. Sunday February 7, l:00 p.m.-5:00p.m. 
The carnival will feature over 25 booths run by the halls and ND clubs, clowns, jugglers, music provided by WSND, popcorn, cot­ton candy, balloons, and lots of fun. There will be no admission 
price and all games are 25 cents. 
Talent Show 
: '·"'-'"-""' ..,,.~,. ··>r,"~.')'JI~Ol~~".i..·•c.:•~ 11...;,~-. ........,.. .,..,_ ~..,"", ~ t,'ul::~ .• 
The Best of the Ma(:di Gras 1982 Friday evening February 12, 9:00 p.m. La Fonune Club -Chautauqua Donation -f2.00 
•Emcee -Mark Davis 
•Dan 
Osborne -Dillon sophomore, winner of 1981 An Tostal Impression contest. 

• 
Matt Feeney, Greg Subkowski -Musical law students who have performed at ND for last 7 years. 

• 
Rich Streibich -Cavanaugh senior, An Tostal Impressions finalist. 


Most of the acts entertain regularly at the Nazz. Davis himself, who will emcee the Program, performs at the Christmas Nazz and is the creator ofThe Mark Davis Show, a Nazz favorite. Opening the show with comedy will be Dan Osborn, a sophomore at Dillon and winner of the 1981 An Tostal Impressionist Contest. Among other talents include Davis' magic/mentalism and comedy routine ­which will also be performed at the Carnival; Rich Streibich, a finalist in the Impressionist Contest; Clyde, a jazz combo which won the 1981 Music Competition at the Nazz; and Smith and Molinelli, a comedy duo featuring Christine Smith and "Molarity" creator Mike Molinelli. 
The final attraction of the Mardi Gras is the Dance-a-thon Feb.13 at the north dome (hockey dome) of the ACC from 1:00 p.m. to 
1:00 a.m.. Interested dancers may still sign up and sell sponsorship tickets in order to take pan in the dance marathon. A sale of 20 spon­sorship tickets allows the dancer to be eligible for door prizes, including the grand prize of a trip for two to the Mardi Gras in New Orleans. Tickets also give eligibility to the sponsors for admission to the public dance, door prizes, and pizza discounts at Barnaby's in Misha­waka. 
Music for the Dance-a-thon is provided by WSND until 9 p.m. when the Chicago-based band Grinnin' Whippet will play for the remainder of the event. Throughout the after­noon and evening, contestants are allowed five-minute breaks at half hour intervals; refreshments will be donated by McDonald's in Roseland. The ACC catering service will also sell New Orleans-style cuisine during the course of the dance. • 
The changes in the 1982 Mardi Gras format may lead one to wonder about the effect on student response. The Mardi Gras committee, however, is very enthusiastic about the reac­tion to the upcoming activities. According to 
see EVENTS, page 10 
much in favor" ofa non-gambling Mardi Gras. Although he admitted he could not criticize past efforts, Van Wolvlear added that he never did like the "Las Vegas type atmosphere" of past Mardi Gras. 
A problem Van Wolvear sees is the smaller involvement of the halls this year. However, he added, that this year's event will not take up as much of the students' time as in past years. Commenting on past hall efforts to build booths, Van Wolvlear said, "'Students are here to be students, not carpenters." 
Van Wovlear concluded by stating that he 
,.,;.... ,•,\. 
•Dan 
Keusel and Friends -A Pangborn junior and Nazz favorite. 

• 
\lark Davis -Howard ~eniur presenting magic and men­talism. 


"\like Dalv and Tom r;,,,ac<· >K -:'\;uz st;l!\\ art,. .\lik<: ''a~ runner up with Nick Korn}·t:k in the.: l9H1 i\iau mu"K compui­tion. 
•Smith 
and Molinelli -The comedy team of Lewis junior Christina Smith and fifth year arkie Micheal Molinelli. 

•"Clyde" 
-The campus favorite jazz combo which won the 1981 Nazz music competition. There'll be an overflow crowd so come early. 


Dance-a-thon 
Saturday Fe!>ru:~rr..• t3! 1:00 p.m.-1:00 a.m. 
D.J. from WSND until 9:00 p.m. 

Public dance from 9:00 p.m.-1:00 a.m. featuring Grimmin' Whippet from Chicago. There will be two prizes given hourly. Hourly prizes include dinner for two at Barclay's and a travel backgammon set. There will be numerous drawings for sponsors, doorprizes and quest appearances by Gerry Faust and Digger Phelps. New Orleans style food will be on sale. All this is taking place in the North Dome ofthe ACC. 
COME AND JOIN THE FUN!!!! 


charitiesand organizations 
By SONYA STINSON 
News Staff 

Proceeds from the dancing and game playing at this year's Mardi Gras will go to benefit 35 service organizations, including 16 campus groups and 19 community organiza­tions. This year the coordinators ofMardi Gras hope to raise $30,000 to aid the selected charities. 
Only those groups involved in "volunteer 
was very impressed with the student 
response. He also added that he was happy to 
see a new segment of the student community 
involved with the festival. 

While admitting "no way is it (Mardi Gras) going to be perfect," activity director McDon­nell noted that "ifstudents respond positively, it (Mardi Gras) will make more money than it ever has in the past." 
McDonnell commented that this year's or­ganizers of Mardi Gras seem much more con-
see ADMINISTRATION, page 10 

services·for the disadvantaged" will receive 
funds from the Mardi Gras, according to Stu­
dent Activities Director james McDonnell. A 
special committee decides which requests to 
honor. 
Once the committee decides to donate to 
an organization, the next question is the 
amount of proceeds it should receive. "We 
look at how much we have and how much 
they ask for, and we set priorities," McDonnell 
stated. 
The committee gives cenain kinds of or­
ganizations special consideration. "We look 
for those organizations that are working with 
the retarded, the educationally and economi­
cally disadvantaged and the physically hand­
icapped. We also look for organizations 
making efforts to rehabilitate people who 
have made mistakes in their lives and groups 
helping people to improve family life," 
McDonnell said. 
One organization which has top priority in 
Mardi Gras fund-raising efforts is the Special 
Olympics. McDonnell commented that Spe­
cial Olympics Director Bill Locke was con­
cerned that funds might not be available this 
year. "I assured him nor to lose hope about 
receiving money from us," McDonnell stated. 
The campus services receiving Mardi Gras funds include educational groups like the Neighborhood Study Help Program, groups which aid the mentally and physically hand­icapped,. such as the Council for the Retarded and groups like the Farm Labor Organizing Committee (FLOC) and Amnesty lnterntional which are interested in political and economic issues. 
Among the off-campus services which will benefit are organizations such as Phoenix House, a center for women alcoholics, and Joliet Center for Criminal justice, which works to rehabilitate women prisoners. An­other institution is the Fatima Center. an innt-r·cit\' mission in Clt·vdand where ~omt· :\ot.rt· Dan,e ,tudcnt~ JlAIT.( ipatnl in tl"· ' r hat' P!ung•. 
·1 i!t: ll~t ol organizaiions also indudes t \\ u 
M:holarship funds. They are the Holy Cross 
Parish :\1inority Scholarship Funds, and the 
Little Flower :\1ontessori Scholarship Funds, 
which makes its awards on the basis of need. 
Children's service groups include the Fun and Learn Center, the First United Methodist Day Care Center, and Camp Superkids, which provides a special for children with asthma who could not otherwise afford a camping trip.
Tfie -Primary.. r>ay , School, run' 'oy Sister Marita Stoffel and Sister Evodine McGrath will also benefit from Mardi Gras proceed~ 
this year. In a recentObserver feat.ne Brother Joseph McTaggan of Campus 'Ministry described the school as "an apostolate of two women, addressing the needs of the inner city." Sr. :\1arita founded the Day school in 1968, after being turned down by the South Bend School Corporation. Sr. Evodine joined 
see PROCEEDS, page 10 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer-Mardi Gras Wednesday, February 3, 1982 -page 9 
35 Years The Best of 1\lardi Gras 
Photos courtesy of The Dome 
The celebration ofMardi Gras at Notre Dame originated in the form of a dance on Febrnary 15, 1947. Tu•o hundred and twen~v couples brought the spirit of the Southern festival to frigid Indiana. 



The "carnival" setting for Mardi Gras was established in 1948. This 1949 booth commemorates the California centennial. The proceeds wentfor foreign student relief 
The Drill Hall was transformed into. a festive scene of decorated booths complete with "one-arm bandits" as shown herefor the 1952 Mardi Gras. 
Musician Duke Ellington presides over the festivities at the Mardi (Jras Ball of1962, held in the North Dining Hall. 
"In the News" u•as the theme for the 1981 Mardi Gras, whicb marked tbe end of 'gambling for chari~v· at Notre Dame. Here Fr. Hesburgh tries a final roll of the dice at the High-Lou· table. 




The Sorin/Regina "Reform Church" is one of many im­aginative booths u•hich highlight the Mardi Gras of1975. 
The Observer-Mardi Gras Wednesday, February 3, 1982-page 10 
----·-··-_______._.________;__.._______

~---------------......;,.. 
History of Mardi Gras goes back to 194 7 dance ., 
By TIM NEELY andVIC SCIULLI 

News Staff 
This year's Mardi Gras has come a long way since it began in 194 7. Until last year, not many changes were made in the way that Mardi Gras was run. 
In the beginning, the Rebel Club, made up of Notre Dame men who hailed from the South, sp~msored a "Mardi Gras Dance" at the Erskine Country Club in an effort to bring some of the merriment of the New Orleans Mardi Gras celd?ration to the cold climate of South Bend. A year later, the first Mardi Gras carnival was held on February 9 and 10 in the Navy Drill Hall. The festival's full name then was rhe Foreign Students Relief Mardi Gras. Twenty-six booths were open that year, with activities including a paddle sale, dart games, hoop throwing, golf-chipping, and weight guessing. There were also a number of games 
of chance, including horse races, a "mice board", and a wheel of fortune. This was in addition to the Rebel Club's dance, moved on campus to the so-called "Palais Royale" Ball­room. 
Over the years, only minor changes were made in running the event. In 1949, the dance became a regular part of the Mardi Gras fes­tivities, held yearly in the LaFortune Ballroom until 1960, when it was moved to the newer 
(and larger) North Dining Hall. Each year a big name in jazz or dance bands would provide the music. Some ofthe names which appeared at the festivities over the years were Tommy Dorsey, Duke Ellington, and Ray McKinley. 
The carnival changed in format only slightly over time as well. Originally held in the Navy Drill Hall, it was moved to the Fieldhouse when the former building was torn down to make way for Memorial Library. In the early sixties, the gambling booths moved again, this time to another newer and larger building, Stepan Center, where they were set up every year through 198I. 
In the late sixties students seemed to became .less interested in raising money for charity and more interested in stopping the Vietnam War. (This is reflected in the year­books of 1968 and 1969, each of which gives only a glancing mention of Mardi Gras.) Apt athy killed the Mardi Gras dimce in 1970, and a lack of funds ended what had been a Mardi Gras tradition: a concert by a big name in popular music (Harry Belafonte, the Four Tops, and Dave Brubeck were among those 
continuedfrom page 7 
Q: Could you possib~y make more than last year? 
A: l think that we could easily make more than last year. 
Q: What does someonegetforpurchasinga sponsorship? 
who stopped here during Mardi Gras weeks). 
During the "Me Decade" of the seventies, concern grew over the changing priorities of students. In fact, there was some talk, albeit widely scattered, that the Mardi Gras carnival would die because of the money-hungriness of some gamblers, ignoring the true intent of what had become a week-long festival ­raising money for charity. 
One final change came about in the seventies. The various booths, originally designed, built, '<lnd manned by the various campus organizations, became the respon­sibility, predominantly, of residence halls as dorms became more cohesive units through­out the decade, and as clubs became generally less cohesive. 
However, in 1980 Bishop McManus decided that since Indiana law prohibits gam­bling, including holding raffles and bingos, he would enforce those laws in the Catholic in­stitutions under his jurisdiction. After confer­ring with a number oftop moral theologians at Notre Dame, McManus concluded that gam­bling was not proper in the Mardi Gras. Be­cause of the short period of time between the bishop's decree and the scheduled dates for 
• the 1981 event, last year's gambling booths went up as they had in prior years; all in­volved, however, knew things would have to change in 1982, or Mardi Gras would become a thing ofthe past. 
The purpose of the Mardi Gras, to raise money for needy organiations, was not changed. The means for achieving this, however, have changed because of the_bis­hop's o,rder. 
This year's Mardi Gras will have as its main fundraiser a Dance Marathon. Five hundred participants have signed up for the Dance and a total of $30,000 could be realized if each dancer sells his or her book oftickets. A talent show and carnival also will be held. 
Despite the Bishop's no-gambling order, this year's Mardi Gras has a very good chance of raising more money than those of past years, since there is a much smaller overhead involved. Student Activities Director Dr. james McDonnell estimated that the cost of building for a carnival would be a tenth ofthat for setting up the gambling booth. In past years, expenses have reaches as high as 60 percent ofthe total amount raised. McDonnell hopes to lower this figure greatly for this year's Mardi Gras, with a 75 percent profit possible. 
, , , Q&A 
A: Around trip vacation for two to New Or­leans during Mardi Gras is the top prize. We also had donated a few gift certificates from various places around the community and other little things that will be given away during the dance. And ~ryourthreedollars you get admission to the public dance from 9 
p.m. to I a.m. the night of the dance-a-thon. 
Mardi Gras Committee 
Co-chairmen:jim Stork, Andy Shafer 
Publicity: Bridget Lowry Recruitment,Tickets: Chris Stephan, jack Eisenbeis Accountant,CoiJections: Phil Manz, Wayne ~oer 
Door Prizes: Celeste Hank, Ted Gutmann Entertainment,Decorations: Sue Fearing, Tom Wrobel Food:John Murphy 
Talent Show Chairman: Mark Davis Carnival Chairman: Mark Manley 


This year's Mardi Gras Head Committee reviews plans for the weekend celebration. (Photo by Rudy Perez) 
... Administration 
continuedfrom page 8 

cerned about raising money for charity than past ones. 
"This year's Mardi Gras overhead is going to be approximately one-sixth of past Mardi Gras, creating a better chance for more money to be raised," McDonnell said. In past years grossing 550,000 would not raise as much money for charity as grossing 1130,000 will this year, McDonnell noted. 
McDonnell said that the dance-a-thon will be the key to the success of Mardi Gras. Over 1130,000 could be raised by the dance-a-thon alone if all the dancers get their sponsors, McDonnell added. 
"Hall spirit is a major concern," com­mented McDonnell, adding, "it could be a negative factor." He went on to note, however, "it saves the halls a lot oftime (not building booths) and they will still participate in the carnival." 
"Most of this year's organizers are new," said McDonnell, "since most of the people who worked on idast year were seniors. New people come to me for more assistance," he noted, "but they are doing a good job." 
McDonnell commented that attendance 

was down last year and he hopes the change of 
format for ~he festival may attract more 
people. He also added that good weather 
could play a key factor in the success of Mardi 
Gras. "I hope it will still be fun," he concluded. 
... Events 
continuedfrom page 8 

Mardi Gras and Dance-a-thon chairmen Andy Shafer and Jim Stork, both from Flanner, the expected participation as well as profit this year will be greater than before. Over 500 dancers have signed up for the Dance-a-thon already and profit from the whole Mardi Gras is expected to be about $30,000. 
Carnival chairman Mark Manlt:y asserts that there is always a tremendous response to ac­tivities that arc different, such as An Tostal for 
example. Manley optimistically hopes for a "student realization that Mardi Gras has changed but the spirit is still there." Mark Davis looks upon the talent show as a service which caters to the need for student involve­ment as well as a benefit for the charities. Davis hopes that the talent/variety program will evolve into an annual event. According to the publicity and the willingness ofthe people involved, the "new" Mardi Gras should be as successful as in the past. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
. . . Proceeds 
continuedfrom page 8 

the Day school in 1971. The school is funded primarily by Notre Dame student organiza­tions and Campus Ministry. The government provides breakfast and lunch for each of the 26 students. 
Aid to these and other organizations 
depends upon the participation of the stu­
dents in Mardi Gras' activities. The coor­
... Survey 

continuedfrom page 7 Some of those who were familiar with the new format offered suggestions for improve­ment. In addition to better publicity, especial­ly for the dance-a-thon, students offered ideas concerning more entertainment, perhaps a live band, and thc.addition of a beer conces­sion or the permission to bring coolers to the carnival. One creative SMC freshman sug­
dinators of the event are especially counting on the students who signed up for the dance­a-thon to sell their tickets, since this is where the bulk ofthe money will be raised. 
In addition, ,\1cDonnell hopes that those in­volved in the various service groups will help 
_out :with the .\1ardi Gras. "Manpower is impor­tant to making Mardi Gras a success," McDon-:­nell stated. 
gested a sponge toss or dunking machine featuring various administration and faculty personnel as targets. 
.\1ardi Gras co-chairman, Andy Sh afer, stresses that success for Mardi Gras is depend­ent upon the ND-SMC student body. Though he admits to some negative reaction, he pointed out that "People who understand what Mardi Gras is are quite enthused and feel it will be as successful as any past Mardi Gras...If people give us a chance, it will be fun." 

~~ 

Wednesday, February 3, 1982 -page 11
l!l!!!!!!l!!!!ls ttowc fl s E 

.. 
·,~ 
~ 


cally by tbe crowd\ . . .. few ofthe members . · 
Theopenmg 
~~i~~~~~~~~~i!~~~!!!l!i!l!lll 
geles ~ b~ed five waythrough their '\O·minultf' bumBeauty t:Uid · Be.~t lCc~lrn~ntly best knows songs beii.ug •l~l\¢ ltl91fTltW)Q~l~fi!P!t~~Qtil~ tiP$••··~.c Sealed." 
But the night b·donw::dtiHI~el~ol:.l¢¢~tn<fW:.tfii¢ ro~¢~~~,~··<:;~)4Ji.l$iH \I lngofoneAmtenc~~o~tdt~~s~st~~~:~(m~li~!~;ao4·~w~~~-j~i\~iii lead guitariSt Andy Su~nm't'!t:$, appeared to bt: group spoke$man Monday t~~gW:ibcing ~h~ poly group member to banter with, conjole an(! jlpp~ to tb¢ audience duringseveral sing·alongs(See that root? Wetl..Jwant~~tO •.· · 

. just a Httle .•. ). · ··· · Opening with "Mes.~age In A &m:Ie,'' the Poli<;e swungtllmugll. material from their old albomsRe-gattadeBtanc, Ou#a~es d'A mourandZenzattaMondatta. I was hapJ)Ytris¢e th:U: th~ ecitk¢ included several songs that the audi<:rwewasn't familiar wtth;i,ioltgS like "Bring on the Night,'' "The Bed'sToo BigWltboutYou"a.nd''So 
Lonely." 
Featured from their new album Gb0$1 In the Machimfwasthe group's most popular single to date "Everythinglitd~ Thing She Di>es (S Magic.'' Other Police classics, such as "Da Do Do Oq, DaDa DaDa.'' "l)on't Stand So Cl\lsc T(l Me" and ~·RQxannc" wet¢ per. fotm\'d smoothly· almost too :sm()mhly. The numbers weretoo 
polished, something rhat seems unnatural for a Pvlice C\lllCCrt. A little variati(.)n on the chords or vvcals might have made songs like "Message in a Bottle" more inspiring. Also, the lighting for the show rdlectcd similar sluggishness. Apparent!}', the light crew felt that flooding the stage with colored Ugbts sufficed foe the light show, 
The r01w talent ()hh(· Police on stage madc up for the technical shortcoming~. The strenttth o.fStitig's voci\lsi!Oared over Summer'~ sparse, scaring solo w~>rk, two dements ofthe gro.up that sets 1t,e Police apart on today's rock scc:ne, C()pcland rem<tined his smiling. energctically innovative sdt: making the most ofhis wide selection ofdrums. "fvery Uttk Thing She Docs Is Magic'' virtually exploded on stage, with Summers and Sting leaped and writhed to the dis· tinctive reggae beat. "InviSible Sun.'' with it'sbaunUng organ chords and hymn·like verses, pmves that the Police could score with slowet moving numbers. 
Th..: !land~:apped offtheir ninety minutesetwith two cncqr~s. '!f!d Chl· aowd bounced and clamored f<lt more.:. It appears th..t the fastci sweeping, powerful success gained by the Pqbce Is weU cleS!:;rved and, hopefully. long la~ning. 
Spectacular Suite 

Cultural Sferies begins at SMC 
How many times during the year 
is there a bonafide cultural happen· 
ing on the Notre Dame or Saint 
Mary's campus? Well, the Spec· 
tacular Suite series provides not one, 
By Chris Fraser 
but three such happenings designed to delight cultural appetites. On February 3, 7, and I I, Saint Mary's will sponsor this unique entertain· ment series featuring three perfor· mances by nationally recognized female artists. The Spectacular Suite series is part ofthe 25th Anniversary celebration ofO'Laughlin Auditorium and is designed to feature women in the arts. 
The series opens on February 3, 
with Sister Sister, a highly acclaimed 
one-woman show starring Yinie Bur· 
rows. Sister Sister is an exploration 
ofwoman's liv t es as well as a tribute 
to woman ofall age~ and races. A 
spdl· binding and original theatre 
form, the: show will present Ms. Bur· 
rows in a series ofdramatic readings 
from poetry and literature pertain· 
ing to women. lncluded·in the 
program will be works by Carl 
Sandburg, Bertolt Brecht, Lucy 
Curtis,Jamc:s Thurber and Scan 
O'Casey. 
A graduate of New York Univer· sity, Ms. Burrows made her Broad· way debut as a child actress with Helen Hayes in "The Wisteria Trees. ···~--e then, she: has per· formc:o tn " ,___ •er ofsuccessful plays both on and off Broadway. ,\1s. Burrows has crc:atc:d seven distinct· ly different one-woman shows for the: colh:gc: and national circuit. In addition, she is a vicc·pn:sident of Women !(>r Racial and Economic 
Equality ( WREE) and a Permanent 
Non-Governmental Organization 
Rcprest·ntative to the: United Na­
tions where she is active with 
woman's issues, racial discrimina· 
tion, disarmament and southern 
Africa. 
The Spectacular Suite: series con· tinues on Sunday, February 7, with a recital by internationally recognized pianist, Barbara Geary. The: recital will include Bartok's "Suite, Op. 14," Beethoven's "Sonata in F Minor, Op 57" and Bach's "Chromatic Fantasy 

OBUD: NL>~ Answerman 
J
ust dial 9·239·6283, or 9· 
239·0BUD. This call will connect 
you with the office of the On·. 
budsman service, located on rt 
second tloor of the LaFortune Stu· 
By ltayWise 
dent Center. According to du 
Lac,"The Ombudsman is the 
trouble-shooting wing of the stu· 
dent government, maintaining 
phone lines that studt·nts may call 
for inf(lflnation or assistance: regard· 
ing anything about Notre: Dame." In 
addition to this, the: Ombudsman 
also pn>vidt·s a soundmg board l(>r 
any complaints that student~ may 
have:, ranging from dining hall h>Od 
to resitkncc hall maintainancc:. 
The (>mbudsman office contains a 
potpourri of int(>rmation. Complete 
listings of movies showing at arc:a theaters, student body and llnivcsity oftkc:rs and officials, and upcoming 
Notre: Dame and Saint \1ary's Col· 
lege: c:vc:nts adorn the: walls of tht· 
office. The: table which sc:rvc:s as a 
desk for the OBUD staJfers b covered with trivia books. Notre Dame/Saint Mary's dirc:norit's, past editions ofThe Observer, schedules, and maps. A small box also holds in· dc:x cards with all sorts of facts rc.:latcd to lik at Notre: Dame: and and Fugue" as well as works by Liszt and Debussy. 

Agraduate ofSaint Mary's, Ms. Geary abo earned a master's degree in piano at Indiana University. She has bee11 commended by both the American and European press for her vers! tility as an artist, her excep· tiona! tonal control and the intensity ofhcrexpression. The London Daily Telegraph has praised her complete technique and her imaginative interpretations--her "lyrical and ar· ticulate' Bach, "vivaciously projectt:d" Beethoven, and "haunting and humorous" Debussy. 
The final event ofSpectacular Suite will feature Heidi Lehwalder and Carol Wincenc in a harp and flute duo on Thursday, February I I. The two talented musicians will join for performances ofworks by Ravel, Bach and Persichetti as well as a spe· cia! performance of"Scintillation," a harp solo composed by Salzedo. 
DesCI ibed by the New York Times as "a resourceful and sensitive musicia:l as well as a thoroughly ac· complished virtuoso," Heidi Leh· walder·~. professional credits arc: notable. She hiJ.S performed with the: New York Philharmonic and ha~ also enjoyed engagements with major ensemb .c:s including the: Clc:vdand Orchestra. the National Symphony and the o\tlanta Symphany. Ms. Lch· waldc:r'~ pc:rformances have: been under conductors such as Leonard Bernstein, Lukas Foss and Anhur 
Fiedler. Ms Lehwalder has earned honors in Tel Aviv's International Harp Competition, and in 1976, she received the prestigious Avery Fis· her Award in New York. 
Since winning first prize in the 1978 Namburg Flute Competition, Carol Wincenc has established a reputation as one of today's foremost flute soloists. She has par­ticipated in the Marlboro and Spoleto festivals and has been featured in the T "Mostly Mozart," White Mountain and Newport fes· tivals. Her first solo album, recorded for Musical Heritage Society, has been cited by Stereo Review as a "Recording ofSpecial Merit." 
Certainly, the auspicious credits ofthe performers make the Spec­tacular Suite series a rare oppor· tunity for members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community to enjoy the: talents ofsome of the world's finest female artists. So dust offyour classy clothes, polish up ...:. your sophisticated accent and prepare yoursc.:lf for a February blitz ofentertaining culture: .. right here: at Saint Mary's. 
Tickets for t·ach show arc 5-l !(>r the general public. S2 for Notre Dame students and free ofcharge !(>r Saint Mary's students. Tickets l(>r all three: pcrh>nnancc:s may be: purchased in advan<.'C for S9. For in· f(>nnation or rcst·rvations contau the: Office: ofSpt·ciall'wgrams at 
2H+'PH7. 


Saint M; ry's. In short, the answer to any que:>tion can be founo 111 tnc Ombud:.man office. 
The office also holds two log books, one: for complaints and the: other to record all incoming qucs· tions. Tile: complaints rcct'ivc:d by the Ombudsman service vary in nature. Illany stutknts cxprt·ss dis· satisfact on with the: dining halls. which i~ passed on to the ap· propriate authorities. Other com­plaints, ranging from broken drinkin!l fountains to inadcquatt· hot water in dormitories, arc also transmilled to those who can n·t'fif\' the problem. The complaints are · vc:ritlc.:d by Ombudsman staff mcm· bc:rs hd; >rt· they are reported. and Ombud~ man also follows up ali complai lls in order to be tTrtain that the: 'ituation has hc:c:n rt•ctitiec.l 
The q c~c:stions posed hy calkrs to the Ombudsman service arc: just as varied. .-!.!though most of tht· ques· tions de: tl with campus c.: vents. t·al· lers arc: lrc:e to ask any qut·stion. Ombud~ man direnor Tom Koegel remcml:ers some of the: more un· usual questions. "One: person wanted o know the: title: of tht· movie in which Fr •J Astaire danced all the: way around :.1c: room, and we once: ha J a caller ask ti1r a good blow-of'course:." in almost every in· 
Pianist Barbara Geary plays February 7. 
stance, Ombudsman manages to find the answer( in this case, Fred Astairc: danced in Aurora Wedding and Koc:gd himself suggested a blow-oil course). even though tht· caller must somt·timL·s kavt· his or hc:r telephone numbt·r and wait !(>ran Ombudsman staffer to return his call. 
The phone lines arc: mamwd by an Ombudsman stalkr between the hours oftwc:lvc: and five. Monday through Friday. At all other times, a rc:cording providt·s a brieflisting of campus t•vc:nts. Ombudsman dirt'C· tor Koc:gd stated that "OBlll> al· ways nc:c:d~ a kw pt·opk willing to work an hour a WL'l'k to improvt· communication and inlormalion on campu~." I k asknl any ~IUdt·nt~ in· tc:restt·d in donating an hour each Wt't'k to ( >mbudsmanto call the ( >m· budsman oftke. 
The: Ombudsman sc:rvin·, or OBliD, is conducting busint·ss as u~ualthis ~nncM<T. ( >mhudsman wc:lcomc:~ complaints or questions, and will try to answer any tluc:rics or rtTtify any prohkms. Anyone in· !crested in joining the Ombudsman stall is cncouragnl to c.: all the: OBLJD otlke at anr time:, as additions to the staffarc: always wc.:lcome. And, again. whenc:vc:Lyou have: a question or complaint, fed lrt'l' to diai9·2:W· OBliD. 

Wednesday, February 3, 1982 -page 12 
~SHOWCfJSE


--_,f["_-=------t f ;;; 


'New sounds' hit music scene 
Prince Charming 

Adam and the Ants 
A
dam and the Ants are nom­
minces for a Grammy award this 

year in the category ofBest Artist. in 
recent months, Ant music, the band's 
amalgamation·of various musical 

Katharine Stalter 
Music 

genres, has infiltrated American 
airwaves via college radio stations 
and hip commercial statioils. As 
evidenced by their latest LP release, Prince Charming, Adam and the 
Ants are more than some weird out­
fit oftrendies and should not be dis­
missed merely as such. 
In the spring of I981, their Kings ofthe Wild Frontier remained at the top of British album charts for several weeks, accompanied by cascades ofcritical acclaim. Adam Ant ( a.k.a. Stuart Goddard) is aware ofhis status as a hero to his young fans and to the media He ack­nowledges the fans who buy his records as the most important people in the record-making process. Prince Charming reflects his concern for and committment to the people who guarantee his success. The lyrics ofAdam Ant and his songwriting partner, Marco Pir­roni, aim for the soul-searching part 
of the lis-tener's brain. Their recur­ring theme is the importance ofin­dividuality and respect, and how these qualities function in a person's relationship with the world. It's 
heavy material for insectile philosophers, but the moral punch is delivered painlessly and effectively. Throughout Prince Charming, the Ants' notion ofselt~awareness and respect appears in several forms. "Picasso Visita El Plancta De Los Simios" deals with the age-old bugaboo ofartistic integrity (i.e. an artist "selling out")."; Guns West" recycles circa 1970 women's Iibera­
tion clichccs alongside classic macho rhetoric with tongue-in­cheek bravado that makes each seem brand new and believable. Prince Charming's best known song, "Stand and Deliver" (which was released as a single early last summer), points out the folly ofself­deception. The title track ofPrince Charmingemphasizes selfrespect through the upholding ofa personal set ofstandards. 
You may be wondering about the music itself. It's danceable, singable, whistleable -inshort, catchy. The styles range from mock TV theme music to cowboy traditional to rap to chants to pure pop. Melodic hooks are embedded everywhere, sliding in and out of the entire pas­tiche. There's a groove for every mood. 
Party Safari 
Joe "King"Carrasco 
J
oe "King" Carrasco and the Crowns are all about partying and having fun, as one listen to their 4­song EP, Par~y Safari, will demonstrate. Joe and the Crowns have achieved a cult status in New York City clubs, going over like gangbusters at the Peppermint Lounge and similar venues, and arc getting substantial airplay all over the East Coast. This band ofTexans draws heavily from the tradition of those 60's Lone Star rockers, and the Mysterians. 
Party Safari starts offwith "Bad Rap", a Farfisa-pop number featuring a built-in snake charmer riff. "Gin Baby Gin" opens with a revving engine a Ia the Beach Boys, and im­mediately turns into a let's-hang-out­and-put-quarters-in-the-juke-box drinking song. On the flip side, 
"That's The Love" seems to have jumped straight out ofsixties' AM radio. It's the kind ofsong that's im­possible to sit still to while hearing. Party Safari's final track, "TaU La Ou Va" is injected with a strongdose ofCaribbean soul, and is reminis­cent ofEltonJohn's "Jamaicajerk­Oft" from Goodbye Yellowbrick Road. 
joe "King" Carrasco's sense of humor is prevalent. Instead ofSide 1 and Side 2, Party Safari is served with a Tostada Side and a Side Tortil­la. The cover offers a "Free Record! With Every Sleeve Purchased." Lis­ten toPartySafari and have fun. 
Trivia Quiz XIV 

A 11 right,.so last week's quiz ~was a bit rough. But it was not that rough. You just might think 
By Tim tteely 
twice when you see the answers to last week's "what-do-they-have-in­common" trivia: 
1. Bill Haley and the Comets, The Bee Gees, Daryl Hall and john Oates had the number one songs which 
finally knocked the three songs which spentthe most weeks (ten)at that position off that pedestal ("Rock Around the Clock," "How 
·Deep Is Your Love," and "I Can't Go for That" knocked off"Chery Pink .and Apple Blossom White" by Perez Prado, "You Light Up My Life" by Debby Boone, and "Physical" by Olivia Newton-John, respectively.) 
2. "Fire," "The Fever," and "IfI Were the Priest" were Bruce Springsteen compositions that "The Boss" has never released, yet someone else has (The Pointer Sis­ters/Robert Gordon, Southside Johnny and the AsburyJukes, and Al­lan Clarke, respectively) 
3. The Archies, The Cufflinks, and Barry Manilow all have Ron Dante involvement. 
4.. "Could It Be Magic," "Night," and "Nut Rocker" were all based on classical compositions (from works ofChopin, Saint-Saens, and Tchaikovsky, in that order). 
5. Mark Farner, Don Brewer, ·and Mel Schachter were the original Grand Funk Railroad. 
6.John Lennon, George Harrison, Ringo Starr, Billy Preston, and Klaus Voormann were the rumored "New Beatles" after Paul McCartney had officially left the band. (This com­bination did do one record together -"I'm the Greatest" on the 1973 Ringo album.) 
7. 
·The Radiants, Triumph, Kansas, and Ian Gomm have all done dif ferent songs entitled "Hold On." 

8. 
The Righteous Brothers, The Cochran Brothers, and the Walker Brothers were not brothers. (In fact, none oftheir members were even related.) 


9. "I've lost at love before," "What goes up must come down," and ''I'm 
not scared ofdying and I don't really 
care" are the first lines from the singles released from the Blood, Sweat, and Tears album ("You've 
Made Me So Very Happy," "Spinning 
Wheel," and "And When I Die"). 
10. All of the groups were Four ­Four Freshmen, Four Tunes, Four Jacks, Four Aces. 
Finally, on to this week's quiz. It consists often songs the Beatles recorded, butdid not release on 4;s. However, all ofthese made the Hot 
100 when recorded by someone else. Name the artist w .ho did so most successfully. 
1. "Michelle" 
2. 
"You've Got to Hide Your Love Away" 

3. 
"Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds" 

4. 
"Back in the U.S.S.R." 

5. 
"You Won't See Me" 

6. 
"The Fool on the Hill" 




7. "She Came In Through the Bathroom Window" 
8. 
"Here Comes l!be Sun" 

9. 
"Oh! Darling" I 0. "Birthday" 



Birthdayhappenings get better with age 
T
hink back. Way back, to the day you were born. I'm willing to bet the greater part of my tuition that you can't remember that day. But when it's your birthday, you're suddenly the center ofatten­tion. 
As a kid I welcomed all ofthe acclaim because it brought cake and ice cream as well as lots ofnew toys. IfI got lucky there would even be a five-dollar bill stashed secretly inside one ofthe birthday cards. 
They tell me I had a birthday party when I was a year old. I wish I could remember who came. I probably didn't even know what was going on at the time. In my miniscule and as-yet undeveloped mind I most likely was wondering what all these strange giant people were doing around me and why they were all smiling and laughing. Sud­denly a spoonful ofstrawberry ice cream was shoved into my mouth and I swallowed it down clumsily. The highlight came, ofcouse, when some of the giant people, including "Mama and Dada" gave me new toys for my room and a pair ofpajamas with the feet in them. 


From the time Iwas six I looked forward to getting my own GI)oe. I could imagine the foot-tall redhead conquering the heights ofthe family room bookcase or trekking through the terrors ofthe back al­ley. I didn't get one until I was nine, and by then I felt I had outgrown GIJoe. So I deposited GIJoe into the driver's seat ofa durable Tonka Truck and sent him careening recklessly across the front lawn until impact was made, observing what degrees ofdamage I could ad­minister. Children have strange minds. 
Birthday presents never seem to be what you really want as a child because your tastes change so often. A week before your birthday you're dying to have the Game of Life and the week after you want Monopoly instead. This continual fluctuation between desires can drive your relatives crazy. Eventually they will just give you money for your birthdayso that you'll have no one to get mad at but yourself for whatever you get. 
You feel like you're growing up when you start receiving new clothes and colognes instead oftoys and games. You proudly display that vest from Aunt Dorothy the next day at school, and now that you're fourteen, ain't nobody gonna mess with you. That little red­haired girl was obviously impressed by your new blue jeans, so you're glad to have them, even ifyou did see them on sale at K-Mart and there's no design on the back pocket. 

Birthday parties seem to get better with age. Party drinks can go from punch to pop to Pabst in no time at all. Presents become much more long-lasting, mainly because when you're a kid the average lifespan ofa new toy is inversely proportional to the amount of energy you have in your body. As you become older you begin to abandon the idea ofone-sexed parties where the only people there ofthe opposite sex were your cousins. 
Birthday traditions vary with age as well. The one I hated was spankings. My uncle chased me around the house on my eighth birthday just so he could give me eight spankings. The worst part of it was that my aunt was right behind him and she gave me the dreaded pinch "to grow." I can't stand pinches ."to grow." 
When you come to Notre Dame the tradition apparently is to be thrown in the lake or the shower on your birthday. An even newer tradition is to have your roommate thrown in the shower instead. 
Last Monday I hit the big one-eight. Phone calls from my family and a good friend started the day off. I even got a cake from my dad in Phoenix. That night some friends came over and we made the cake disappear in less than an hour. As the Beatles played in the back­ground we celebrated the eighteenth anniversary ofa day I can't even remember. The presents were nothing spectacular on the surface but the intentions and friendships behind them made them 
the great gifts that they were. Just being with your friends on your 
birthdays makes growing older all worthwhile. 
~~()f1tS=J=j=,-.==i=4?~~S======~====================W=e=d=ne=sd=a=y,=F=eJ~r=uary==3=,=19=8=2==p=a=ge=1=3
By The Observer and The Associated Press 

fiBASKETBALL.& 
Tueaday 2/2'a Reaulta  
Notre Dame 75, San Franclaco 66  
San Franclaco (66)  
M FG-A  FT-A  R  F  p  
John  Hag- 
wood  10  5·B  3·5  5  2  13  
John Martens  15  1-6  0·0  2  4  2  
Wallace  
Bryant  40  4-15  2-4  tB  4  10  ~­ 
Ken McAlister  37  5-9  3-5  0  5  13  
OU1n!1n Da1ley  40  9·17  6-9  4  4  24  
Crose111  
Spe1gh  23  0·2  0·0  0  5  0  
Enc Booker  15  1-5  0-1  1  2  2  
Enc  
Slaymaker  6  0·2  0·0  0  2  0  
M1ke  Mathe·  
son  11  1·2  0·1  2  2  2  
David Ha1f1eld  3  0·2  0·0  1  0  0  
200 26-68 14-25  33  30  66  
FG  Pel  3B2  FT  Pel.  ·  .560.  Team  
rebounds · 6  Turnovers  -12  ASSIStS · 6.  
Techmcals ·  
Notre Dame (75)  
M FG-A  FT-A  R  F  p  
B1ll Varner  26  3·6  1·3  B  4  7  
Baarry Spen·  
cer  1B  2·2  2·7  6  2  6  
T1m Andree  32  1·4  2-4  3  5  4  
M1ke Mitchell  40  6-B  4-4  5  3  16  
Ron Rowan Cec1l Rucker  27 17  4·7 1-3  9·12 4·7  3 2  4 2  17 6  ....:  
John Paxson  40  6-8  4-4  5  3  16  
200 23-38 26-41  32  23  72  
FG  Pet.  -.605.  FT  Pet  634 Team  
rebounds · 1  Turnovers · 11  Ass1sts · 11  
(Paxson 4). Techmcals ·  
Halftime· Notre Dame 36, USF 2B Off1C1als  
·Art While (B1g Ten). Ed Marav1ch (Big Ten).  
R1ch Ballesteros (WCAC) A . 11 .345  

Tickets for away Notre Dame basketball games against Seton Hall and Michigan arc available at the second floor ticket office in the ACC. The Seton Hall game will be held on Thursday, February 
18 at the Meadowlands Arena in East Rutherford, N.j. Tickets for the Michigan game, to be held at the Silvcrdome in Pontiac, Mich., on Sunday, March 7, are priced at $4, $6 and S8. -The Observer 
The Student Union continues to sponsor ski trips to Swiss Valley every Saturday night during the winter months. Busses dt·part from the Main Circle at S p.m. and return at I I p.m. Bus tickets can bt· purchast•d in advance from the Student Union for 
52.SO, or on the bus itself for S3.00. Also, discounted lift tickets and ski rental are available -The Observer 
The Chicago White Sox winter publicity caravan will stop in Sc'mth Bend today. Events include a press conference at tht· Knights of Columbus Hall, 81 S N. Michigan, at 6:30 p.m., to be followed by a smoker at 7 p.m. Featured guests will include manager Tony LaRussa, catcher Carlton Fisk, slugger Greg Luzinski, outfielder Tom Padorek, and also the Sox' new mascots, "Ribbie" and "Roobarb." Players will be available for autographs after the session. For more: information, contact Dr. john Tocpp at either 234-9800 ( K ofC), tB~-6321 (home) or 287-5542 (work)-The Observer 
Cross-country ski rental is available weekends to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. For details, call 239·5 I 00. ­
The Observer 
Classifieds 
I NOTICES 
TYPING. EX-LEGAL SECRETARY. 272· 5337 
SHOW YOUR LADY YOU CARE WITH A BOUQUET OF FLOWERS DELIVERED EVERY WEDNESDAY FOR 4 WEEKS. WEDNESDAY'S FLOWERS 289· 1 211. VALENTINES DAY IS CLOSE BY 
ProfeSSional Typ1ng Available For Notre Dame/St. Marys Students 24 hour serviCe $.75 · $1 00 per page. Call Randy (239·7735) 
The Society lor Creative Anachronlam Ia coming to campua aoon. watch the peraoNIIalor InformationI 
SAVE MONEY ON USED BOOKS AT 
PANDORA'S. 3&o OFF USED BOOKS IN 
THE STORE DURING HAPPY HOUR 
EACH FRIDAY FROM 3·6 USED 
BOOKS ARE 5&. OFF AND NEW 
lOOKS ARE 2&o OFF. OPEN WEEK· DAYS 11·6, "WEEKENDS 10·5. PAN· DORA'S BOOKS. 937 SOUTH BEND AVENUE. 233·2342 
OVERSEAS JOBS--Summer/year round Europe. S Amer . Australia. As1a All fields $500-$ t 200 monthly Slghtsee­'"9 Free 1nlo Wnle IJC, Box 52-IN4. 
Corona Del Mar. CA 92625 
AL HANK FOR STUDENT SENATETHE WILUNGNESSTHE EXPERIENCE THE GOALS VOTE FEB. 8 NORTH QUAD DISTRICT N0.2 CANDIDATE. 
LOST/FOUND \ 
LOST. ONE PEARL NECKLACE. lost be­tween the Huddle and the library-1flound please call284-498t (necklace has deep sentimental value) reward Thank you. 
Lost women s S1eko quartz watch lost be· lween Madeleva and Reg1na Call Jod1 4714 SMC 
FOUND FOUNTAIN PEN. NE OF LIBRARY CALL 233· 711 1 OR 232·1803 ASK FOR GARY CLIFTON 
LOST DARK BLUE AMITY BEACH 
WALLET ON MONDAY THE 25TH SOMEWHERE BETWEEN HAYS· HEALY AND THE ACC MANY IMPOR· TANT IRREPLACEABLE$ INSIDE IF FOUND. PLEASE CONTACT JIM AT k1523 HELPI 
Losl Blue checkbook 1n Crowley Hall of Mus1c or lhe South D1mng Hall Call •855t 
LOST .. Red Prayer Book Chnst1an Prayer-L1turgy of the Hours In Sacred Hean Sal Nile 1/30 II found Please call AI. 1384 
Found Ramcoal al recenl Off-Campus party, Call289-1 1 38to 1den111y 
Bookstore Basketball Commissioner Dave Dzied­zic is looking for people interested in working for the 1982 tourna· ment. Call Dave at 3596 for details. -The Observer 
ND Rugbywill hold an organizational meeting Thursday at 
7:00 in the LaFortune ballroom. Call Nick Colarecci at 289·3022 if you can not attend. -The Observer 
ND-SMC Salling Club holds elections to elect officers for 1982 in Morrissey's party room at 6:30p.m. today. -The Observer 
The Fellowship of Christian Athletes 
will hold a meeting tonight in the lounge of Howard Hall at 9:00. All are invited. -The Obsen,er 
S.U. Spring Break Ski Trip-Anyone needing a ride must sign up by Friday, Feb. 5. An accurate count is needed to determine the number of vehicles needed. Also, anyone who needs extra ri.ders please sign up at the S.U. office by Friday. Finally, those who missed the ski rental list can fill that out at the S.U. office. lfyou have any questions or problems please call Kevin at 239-7605 or I 798. -The Observer 

The Observer wtll accept class1f1eds Mon­day through Friday. 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. However. classif1eds to appear in the next 1ssue must be rece1ved by 3 p.m. the busmess day pnor to insertion. All class1fieds must be prepaid. either 1n person or through the ma11. 
M1ss Good T1mes 
How goes the L1z Ray School of Intern· 
tng? 
·The Cute One (me) 
SENIORS-Party al the ICE HOUSE 1n 100 Center Ptano Bar and reduced dnnk priCes Thursday. Feb 4 -9.30·1.00 AM 
RICHARDT 
YOURE THE BEST! HAVE A GOOD 
TIME IN ST. LOUIS THIS WEEKEND 
LOVE, MCL 
HEY. HYALMAR EAT THIS DRINK THIS SMOKE THIS! WE LL ALL FALL DOWN I WAZOOOOOOOOOOOI 
JANE, /HAPPY23RD I YOU'RE NOT GETTING 
OLDER LOVE. 
JEFF 
Tnc1a. I th1nk I solved your problem. You can buy some LAND IN FLORIDA and bu1ld a convenl Then you can lruck 1n wtth Johnny Graham and have lunch tn rm. 104 or 314 See.lhen you d be a non­trucker and a landowner 
NOT ME 
DARE TO CARE, BETTER STUDENT GOVERNMENT IS A REALITY AL HANK FOR STUDENT SENATE. NORTH QUAD Dll!T. x2 
PAM. THE TENNIS PLAYER. lth1nk you look grea11n lurtlenecks. Bul why do you wear them every day now? Love BobC 
CAD··· Where are my champaign glasses???? Hunchback of N D Thurs nlle··be lhere·· lour Included -·M 
Would anyone hke a free killen? Call5824 (SMC) 
To all members of THE QUAD' 
(that s you. Carne. Sully. and Maureen) 
Thanks lor making mytwenty-l~rst qulle a memorable expenence How can I ever make 1t up to you? (Don't worry. I'll lind a way I) Thanks so much! 
Love, 
The Sap 
LARRY No abuse thiS timet Thanks lor be1ng the greatest brother Ground Hog's Eve was the BEST I Thanks 
lor everything. Love, 
Mocrud 
TA.C.O The same goes lor you. Thanks! 

1
A heartfelt thanks 10 lh~ OUinl. the Tnple, Walsh Hall. Sr Jo. the baskelball coaches. the snowball men. and I he Oreo bouncers lor mak1ng my 21 sl the besl 
THANKS! 
O'T 

1 
Lost: Gold Celtic (lrlah) croaa, probab­ly II SMC, much "ntlmental value. Plea" call Eileen at 284-4602. REWARDIll 
LOST: pa1r of brown. plastic-framed glasses, posstbly ·,n brown shp~~n case With broken pocket chp. II lound. please bnng to lost and found on Adm1n or call 1229. 
FOR RENT 
FURNISHED HOMES CLOSE TO NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR. 277-3604. 
FURNISHED HOME AVAILABLE NOW. 277·3604. 
Efflc1ency apt, private entrance. 100 mo. close to N. 0. also 3 bed house 1 1/2 bath call25!>-8505 
ROOMMATE WANTED-completely fur­nished apt.· super locale. name your rent Dave 283·1169 
Notre Dame Ave Apls has apartments available lor next school year Call 234· 6647 
Four and f1ve bedroom houses are ava1lable lor ne•t school year. Call 234­9364 Nancy Humbarger 
STUDENT RENTALS: 2 SIX BEDROOM HOUSES NEXT DOOR TO EACH OTHER FULLY CARPETED, FIREPLACE AND LOFT CALL 272· 7767. 232·4057, 272·2720. 
.__I_w_A_N_TE_o----JII...__TIC_K_E_Ts____. 
Need Aide to Buffalo weekend of Feb. 6 or almost any other weekend call Ray at 272-1684 
STAYING OVER THE SUMMER? Subleasong 1 bedroom Campus V1ew Apt June-Aug. Reduced"pnce Call Anne or Mary 4637 (SMC) 
Need nde to C1nc1nna11 Feb. 12·14. Call Casey at 6256 
N~ED RIDERSIIPitts Bound Feb.5·7,Call 272-2578(evemngs) 
Need nde th1s Friday to Valpo or as far West on tollway as Valpo exit Call John 1730 
RIDERS NEEDED TO DAVENPORT, lA. MUST LEAVE AT TWO O'CLOCK FEB.S RETURN FEB. 7 TIM 289·6519 ANYTIME 
FOR SALE 
USED & OUT-PRINT BOOKS bought. sold. searched. ERASMUS BOOKS Tues-Sunday.12·6.1027E. Wayne(One block south of Eddy-Jefferson Intersec­tion.) 
STEREO SPKS. 200w Power Capac1ty. 4-way System, Base Reflex. AcoustiC Controls. 5yr Serv1ce Warranty DENNIS-1208. 
STEREO/PHONO Only $80 Caii272·257B(Evenlngs) 
-<..... 
NEED  RIDE  TO  JACKSON.  Ml  
WEEKEND OF  FEB  5-7.  CALL MIKE  
t857  

WANTED. 1 housemate lor 6 bedroom house 717 Sl LOUIS Ave Call 232-3237 
WANTED Reliable woman wanled to provide ch1ld care 1n my home part 11me Call 233-3846 
LOOKING lor 20 people who des1re $1000 monthly e•tra 1ncome on a part time bas1s Onentat1on w1ll be Thursday. February 4 al 7 00 pm 1n Park Jefferson Fr.ench Quarters. Call lor direCIIons and mformat1on Wednesday. February 3 be­tween 3 00 ana 5:00pm Call256-5741 or 232·6587 
OBUD needs help! We need a lew ded­ICated people to answer questions and complaints for JUS! one hour a week Call 239-62831or 1nlorma11on. and help the NO campus commun1cate 
Anyone Interested 1n 101n1ng anew club to ra1se money lor MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY-call 8321 by Wed 2/3 Please help Needed. 4 DEPAUL GAs Call MARK. 1105 
WANTED. TWO NORTH CAROLINA STATE GAS CALL X8738 
WANTED: ONE (JUST ONE) DEPAUL STUDENT TICKET I'LL BE A FRIEND FOR LIFE Ill CALL 3313 
PERSONALS 
SOCIAL CONCERNS FILM SERIES··· Jan 26-Feb 5 
SOCIAL CONCERNS FILM SERIES Dr Strangelove February 1. 3. 4. and 5 Eng1neenng Aud11onum 7 and 9.30 p m 
50 admiSSIOn 
Dr Strangelove February 1. 3. 4. an'd 5 Eng1neenng Aud1tonum 50 AdmiSSIOn 7 and 9:30 p m SOCIAL CONCERNS FILM SERIES 
Cookies! Where are my cook1es? Choc­olate chip. G1nger snap. I d even settle lor a cream filled wafer -Ryan p s yep. yep. yep 
HEADING TOWARD CINCINNATI or LOUISVILLE? I need a nde to the C1nc1nnatl ex11 of the freeway lor the weekend of Feb. 
12.1 3,14 Will be glad to share expenses Please call Maureen at 6661 
WHO IS THE STUD OF 301 DILLON? 
RIGHT TO LIFE RETREAT February 5. 
7:00 p.m. to February 7. 1:00 p.m. Only $12-·call Pam at x7947 or John alk6804 
WSND celebrates liS 35th birthday on February 91 L1sten lor the upcomong BIRTHDAY BONANZA on AM-6411! 
How would YOU sound after 35 years??? l.Jslen fo the best rock plus news. sports, and campus events--all on AM-64!!1 
DARBYITES OF THE WORLD UNITE!!! Th1s Wednesday mght there w111 be an orgamza11onal meellng lor the f~rst annual DARBY'S FOLLIES at 12:30 on Darby s Place 
To The F ulure Domer. You d1d 111 Love. Mo 
The low hie. a cultural novelty 
Windsurfer It IS est1mated that over 
200.000 ek!SI worldwide 
Happy B1rthday-Maura Carberry-YOU SEX-MACHINE! And what are your lav hob· b1es? Anything that has to do w1th T&A! TONS ollove·Lis· Lill 
TIX FOR DEPAUL BKB GAME NEEDED CALL DON AT 272-5438 
You ve gollo h1de your love away! Now you can! Hidden Hearts 2 IS Feb. t 2! 
MARDI GRAS CARNIVAL!!! Games lor 25 cents Refreshments Mus1ca1 and mag1cal Sideshows. Lots of tun! Fn . Feb 
5. 5:00·1.00; Sat . Feb 6 1:00-1:00; Sun Feb 7 1:00·5:00. Stepan Center BE THERE I 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY 
JANE CUGINI 
THANKS FOR NOT 
ONLY BEING A 
GREAT SISTER 
BUT AN EVEN 
BETTER FRIEND. 
HAVE A GREAT DAY! 
LOVE. ELLEN 
P S. IT S GOOD TO 
BE THE QUEEN 
,. NEED RIDE lo Northwesl suburbs of Ch1cago (Arlington He1ghts) on Fnday (Feb 5) affer 12 noon. Will share e•­penses. Please call Jul1e al41·5802. 
We would like to express our gratitude to two brave domers who overcame such obstacles as a snowstorm and security to serve us Sunday breakfast in bed. 
Thanks a /or. 
Mikes Dorociak and Schafer 
We/ave 'ya, 
Your two lovely SMC chicks 

FOR THE BEST IN DANCEABLE ROCK AT REASONABLE RATES CALL TREMOR AND DANCE THE NIGHT AWAY! Tom x1495 or John •8606 
rm JUSt not sure how much my heart can bt'eak. 
Tom Maclennan IS cute Ill 

???????????????????????????????? 
Ed Kelly 1s so cool. Just ask h1m. 
Cathy Domamco. I love you 

Anachrontsm. somethtng that •s out of place w1th respect to 11me. For e•ample, a dragon rac1ng a tethner IS an anachromsm 
Salutallonsl GRETCHEN LUEPKE From your b1g SIS 
APOEM TOA-­ROSES ARE RED. VIOLETS ARE BLUE. TO DESERVE BECKY. WHATEVER OlD YOU DO? SOMEONE WITH GREAT TASTE IN WOMEN 
TJB-If I WERE DROWNING. WOULD YOU SAVE ME? JCM 
no 

THE DALTON SISTERS ARE BACK CATCH DEIDRE. ELISE AND ELLE ~ AT THE NAZZ. THIS THUFISDAY-FEB 4 AT 9:00 
COMMITTTTTTMENT 
I m sorry 

MARl( U HOW BOUT A SHORT JAM SES!>ION? I PROMISE I WONT CALL YOU ~NYMORE CALL ME. BETH 
H1 D1ane · Hope you re over your depress~ng weekend 1f not, heres a IOke ''"you •. a How do German kidS lie lhe1r shoes? A In lillie Nalls Ill J1m 
I nee j a nde to PURDUE Can leave Fn.2/12 & return Sun.2/14 Will share usual. call Mark 8317 
BRIAil CONGRATS ON YOUR ACCEP· TANCE TO THE DOME! REGARDLESS OF 'II HERE YOU DECIDE TO RACK YOUF BRAIN FOR THE NEXT FOUR YEARS. I M SURE YOU LL MANAGE TO COMEIINE GOOD GRADES WITH A LOT OF t.IISCHIEF HOPE THE REST OF YOUFI SENIOR YEAR IS FANTASTIC. AND BE SURE TO HASSLE MOM ABOLIT HER HEIGHT FOR ME A FEW TIME l SEE YOU AT EAStER! 
MARf( (YOUR BROTHER YOU MUST 
REMI:MBER ME) PS TELL MOM THAT 
SUSJ,N ASKED IF SHE WOULD BUY 
TWICE AS MUCH FOOD AS USUAL 
FOR EASTER SHE HAS A BIG AP· 
PETI rE 

------~-~------~-~-----------~­
~The Observer-Sports Wednesday, February 3, 1982-page 14 
... Digger

MR. GOODWRENCH IS AT YOUR SERVICE AT BILL KILLILEA 1S 
COMPLETE MR. GOODWRENCH SERVICE 

GMQUAUTY 
SERVICE/PARTS 

GENERAL MOTORS PARTS KEEP THAT GREAT GM FEELING WITH GENUINE GM PARTS. 




, WANTED Pick-up Notre Dame Rugby TealT1 to play in large invitational St. Patrick's 

Day tournament in warm and sunny Pensacola, Florida on March 13. Call Collect Molly McGuire (904) 433-2849 -or­(904) 932-0769 




THETIME IS NOW 
~ 
Applications are now available for next year's Student Union Director and Comptroller in S.U. Office. 
Must be submitted by Feb. 11 
'• 


ALL-STAR CAST -Despite the
cont'dfrompage 16 

difference in roster size, Notre 
Notre Dame's seven Dame had more representatives in representatives are I98I graduates the NBA All-Star Game than in the Orlando Woolridge (Chicago), NFL Pro Bowl. Super Bowl MVP joe Tracy jackson (Chicago) and Kelly Montana was the only ex-Irish Tripucka (Detroit), I980 alum Bill player in the Pro Bowl, while Adrian Hanzlik (Seattle), I979 graduate Bill Dantley and Kelly Tripucka both Laimbeer (Cleveland), I977 played in the NBA All-Star Classic. alumnus Toby Knight (New York) Interestingly, Dantley and and I976 star Adrian Dantley Tripucka both wore number 44 at 
(Utah). Notre Dame. 

The Pac-I 0 led all leagues with 34 ADMIT ONE FOR THE GIPPER­players in the NBA, or 3.4 per During a news conference after his school. The Big Ten was next with State ofthe Union address last week, 32 former players in the pros (3.2 President Ronald "Gipper" Reagan per school) followed by the Atlantic was asked to comment on his run­Coast Conference with 26 (3.25 ning for re-election in I984. After avearge). explaining what effect popular sup-
PERF ARTS SERIES 

PRESENTS: iliilliiliiliiiiiil_______.. 
SPECTACULARSUITE 
• WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 8:00P.M. 
Vinie Burrows. Actress Ms. Burrows has developed a spell-binding and unique theatre form which has. gained her fans on three continents. 
• SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 3:00P.M. 
Barbara Geary, Pianist Barbara is an alumna who has gained international acclaim for dynamic pianism and 
artistic intensity. 
• THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 8:00P.M. 

Carol Wincenc and Heidi Lehwalder, Flutist and Harpist They have gained enormous prestige and acclaim on their own, but love playing their exquisite repertoire together. 
I lth·l~ IO• C(ICh 11\Cil" oclu, II C.I)I"IC,.'II '!Jol l'!o !:1il\ $'l \h•dl::~l\ ho 1 ll'o" \i,llt'\ ~9 (HJoJih $6 \IUli~n~~ 






PowERS ~oR EVERY occas1on; 
~~ 
Sat. 9-12
~!X]
GUARANTEEDFRf.SHISERVICf. WORLDWIDE 

(Oanc€ W€€k€n0s--all Oay) 0R0€R toOay ~OR B€St SElECtiOn. not€ ouR nEw phonE: 284-5891 S€n0 ~lOWERS to lOV€0 onES anywh€R€ In th€ U.S. 61scount PRJC€S on 
OR6€RS 
port and the success of his current policies would play in such a deci­sion, Reagan added that if he felt as good in I984 as he felt now, he'd be tempted to apply for a scholarship to Notre Dame. 
I wonder what sport he plays. 
BRUIN SEASON-The Irish pack up and head to the coast this weekend for their annual February date with UCLA. (No, they're not driving.) Although Digger Phelps is 9-12 in his career against UCLA (including a II4-56 thrashing in Pauley Pavilion during his first season), the Irish have won 7 of the last I2 games played between the two schools. 
Notre Dame's first win in Pauley was a 66-63 decision on December II, I976. That snapped the Bruins' II 5-game non-conference home winning streak and marked UCLA's first loss to a non-conference foe in Pauley. Of the I4 losses suffered by UCLA during their 17-year occupa­tion of Pauley Pavilion, the Irish have accounted for four of them. Meanwhile, the Bruins have won 250 games there. 
Overall, the Irish are II-1 7 against 
UCLA since the first time the two 
teams squared off in I953, 4-9 in 
games in Pauley Pavilion. All four 
Irish wins in Pauley occurred in con­
secutive seasons between '76-'77 
and '79-'80. 
Further, Notre Dame's wins in 
Pauley during the '77'-78 and '78-'79 
campaigns marked UCLA's only 
home losses that year. 
However, the Bruins downed the 
Irish twice last season, both home 
and away, for the first time since the 
'72-'73 season. The Bruins are 
halfway to another season sweep, 
having blitzed the Irish 75-49 in the 
ACC in December. 
. . . Upset 
cont'dfrompage 16 
So the intense Notre Dame-San Francisco series, which began with a bang, ends with a bang. The two teams played nine times over the past six seasons. The home team won every contest. Notre Dame was the home team five times. 
But the first and the last games will be remembered the most. 
IRISH ITEMS -Mitchell con· tinued his hot shooting pace ... In the past 12 games, he's shot 61 per­cent from the floor to raise his team­leading field-goal percentage to 55 percent . . . Ironically, Barry recruited Mitchell four years ago ... At the time, Barry was an assistant coach at Weber State College in Og­
, den, Utah ... "I'll have to tell Mike's dad all about his son's performance when I get home," Barry said after the game . . . The guards lead the way -Notre Dame's guards out­scored USF guards, 52-39 ... Also, Irish guards had I2 of Notre Dame's 32 rebounds . 
LIKE 'lO WORK ABROAD? 
AIESEC presently has an opening for a 
. -· 
reception Officer. Applicants must be residents of South 
Bend or be in South Bend for the summer of 1982, and also be a sophomore or junior business major. Upon successful com­
pletion of the job, the 
llO is eligible to get a job in a foreign country for 6 weeks to to 18 months. 
For more info. call Jeff Ogden 1474 

lhe~r======================================= 
T0 d3:x=============W=e=d=n=e=sd=a=y=,=Fe=b=r=u=ary=3='=1=9=8=2==p=ag=e=l5 
Molarity 



Doonesbury 

AS TW K}/(}aJ, I ~1-YSENT COfK31/lZ6 A 8/U 7HifTWIU Pf<IJ­HIM 7liX 13Xt:MPTIONS FOR 5E61?13­
(jll,T6f1 IN5fiTI!TlONS. I 0!0SO 
8EC4USE ~R!JtP. OF MY 
8CXJY IS lNAI-7lfi?A8LY I'JPP0!5EI) 
70 I?ACIS( [;)f5{RfM/NimON/ 


Simon ....~r.;: 
I ~TlMr BUT I 
WAIJTE'"PTI:> WEA~ HY 


I AM NCJT A 6/?11/P? IAJflfT RACET,MR. fl&RC£. (ii?{)()P? MR. I llK'e '!W U/11.1.-Pf?&SI/?8NT; TA!<P 7HIS ~ I'M YOIJR 
8ACK 70 }O{.IR secJ?£TA/l.Y ,-"'""6RIJl/(-OFI(}(JSIN6. 
Michael Molinelli 
.BUT J:. I.JAS C:,DINI!t TD RerJ.TC Tl:> THE: STVl>EAII5 

Campus · 
•2 -S p.m. -Tax Assistance Program, LaFortune 
•4:30 
p.m.-Meeting, Amnesty International, In· tc:rnational Students Lounge:, Basement of LaFortune: 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, Finance Forum, Mr. Bcr· nard F. Brec:nan, Sav·A·Stop, Inc., Hayes Healy Auditorium, Sponsored by Finance Club ofthe Col· lc:gt.· ofBusiness Administration 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Natural Product Total Synthesis", Dr. Henry Rapoport, 123 Nic:uwland Science: Hall, Sponsored by Reilly Lecture Series 


•4:30 p.m. -Army Medical Recruiter, 217 ROTC Building 
•7 
p.m. -Lecture, "Depositional Environments and Reservoir Morphologies of Channel Sandstones", Dr. Richard R. Bloomer. Independent Geologist. I 0 I Earth Sciences Building, Sponsored by AAPG Visiting Lecturer Series 

•7. 
9:30p.m.-Film, "Dr. Strangc:lovt~". Engineer­ing Auditorium, Sponsored by Social Concerns Film Series, .SO admission 

•7 
p.m. -Meeting, Saint Mary's Right To Life, President"s Board Room, LcMans, Saint .\olary's Col· lege 

•s 
p.m. -Film, "Uiysses",Jamesjoyce Centenary Celebration, Architecture Auditorium 

•8 
p.m. -Seminar, "Fundamental Principlc:s of Professional Ethics", I 17 O'Shaughnessy Hall, Sponsored by Thomas More Society 

•s 
p.m. -Lecture, "On Colkcting Prints and Drawings", Stephan B. Spiro, Curator. The Snite .\1useum of Art, Annenberg Auditorium, Snitc Museum ofArt 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, Finanet.· Forum. Mr. Barry F. Sullivan, First National Bank ofChicago, Center for Continuing Education Auditorium, Sponsored by Finance Club of the College of Business Ad· ministration 

•s 
p.m. -Perfonning Arts Series, "Sister, Sis· tcr", Vinic Barrows, O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's College, S4 adults, S2 students 

•9 
p.m. -Meeting, Fellowship of Christian Ath· Ietes, Howard Hall Social Space, All arc invited 



Garry Trudeau 

Jeb Cashin 


T.V. Tonight 
Wednesday, February 3 
8:00p.m. 16 Real People 22 WKRP In Cindnnali 28 Greatest American Hero 34 National Geographic Spedal 46 21st Century News 
8:30p.m. 22 The Two of Us 46 The Renewed Mind 
9:00p.m.  16  Facts Of LitC:  
22  CBS  Movie:  "A  Piano  For  
Cimino"  
28  The Fall Guy  

34 The .\1ost Endangered Spec:ies 
46 Today With Lester Sumrall 9:30p.m. 16 Love, Sidney 10:00p.m. 16 (,luincy 
28 Dynasty 34 Swingin' Tht· Ulues 46 Calvary Tt·mpk 
10:30p.m. 34 Camaa Three 46 ~lkhiana Today 
11:00 p.m. 16 Nl'WSCl'lll<T ICJ 22 lll:yt·witness News 28 Nt·wswatch 2H 3'1 Th<· Dil'k Cavett Show 46 Praise The Lord 
11:30p.m. 16 Tonight Show 
Mrs. 
..4 

l 
J 
... 1 
I 
~ 
i 
l 
The Daily Crossword 

© HJ82 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
ACROSS 
1 For 
5 Heat almost 
to boiling 10 Social 
neophytes 14 Soil: pref. 15 Thick soup 16 Coupd'­17 Complete 
defeat 18 Rose 
essence 19 Skywalker 20 Get set 22 Advance 
glance 24 Intelligent 26 Rage 
27 Backslid sorts
Tuesday's Solution 

30 Fender bender 35 Greek 
island 36 Chip 37 Former 
Chinese VIP 
38 Guns the engine 39 Epsom or 
smelling 40 Small coin 41 French 
article 42 Lessens 43 Samba or 
conga 44 Shorts, of 
2/3/81 

******************************************* 
t Auditions will be held for this season's : * * 
: Student Players' Production ! * * 
* * 
; ''Cabaret'' ! 
* *
* *
! W!J4$t&l&-m:',i~:::,;: ;,:·:::i::,i.(ilwl;1:;fii:,;;;:M:i,~ililliii~@t\wi~l~il1BBIWEiii®Wif.l!w;* * 
; Thurs., Feb.4, 7:00pm--SMCReginaAud. ! * *
! All Actors, Singers, & Dancers Welcome! ! ******************************************* 
46 More 
insistent 47 Ancient 48 Steelhead 50 Mean Queen 54 Heart part 58 European 
river 59-the bud 61 Spoken 62 Passport 
endorsement 63 Augmenting 64 Nick and-
Charles 65 Cigarend 66 Far from 
bright 67 Dive or song 
DOWN 1 Distort 2 Sikorsky 3 Bill or 
blue 4 Shorts, 
of sorts 5 Was lenient 6 More 
winsome 7 "Dust thou-..." 
8 Kind of year 9 Oildrill· 
ers' needs 10 Searched 11 Small case 12 Make cake 13 Mulligan's 
dish 21 Windward's antithesis 23 Huron's 
neighbor 25 Loftiest 27 Cancel 28 Dunne, 
for one 29 It's a long time 31 They've 
nine lives 32 Rectify 33 John-
Garner 34 Bearer 36-Morgana 39 Depressed 40 Warns 42 Onion, 
for one 43 Sullen 45 The Fates 46 -lizard 49 Pours 50 Jupiter 51 Blue-pencil 52 Gusto 53 Counterpart 55 Exult 56 Poem by 
Byron 57 Spirit 60 Neat as a­22 WKRP In Cincinnati/CBS Late Movie 28 ABC News Night line 34 Captioned ABC News 

12:00 a.m. 28 Lovt· Boat 
46 Lester Sumrall T~aching 12:30a.m. 16 Late Night With David l.enerman 
~--------------------------------,
There are only 15 more WEDNESDAY NITE 
Draft and Import Beer Specials at ~Lm~ll®ffi 
rn~rn 

before graduation. 
DON'T CRY! TAKEADVANTAGE II 
Tonight: BECK's light! , Next Week: Lunch at Sr. Har 1 
L----~~~------------------------j 
..--~--~---.----------------~~._ 


Wednesday, February 3, 1982 -page 16 
Irish upset USF Dons 75-66 
By DAVE DZIEDZIC 
Sports Writer 
It ended just as it began. 

Notre Dame's 75-(>6 upset of seventh-ranked San Francisco last night was the last game of a fierce series which began with a bang near­ly five years ago. 
The series began on March I, 1977 at the ACC. San Francisco en­tered that contest with a 29-game winning streak and a number-one ranking. The Irish upset the Dons that day, 93-82, in one of the most emotional games ever at the ACC. 
Last night's game was almost as emotional as the first one. Senior captain Mike Mitchell, playing the tlnest game of his college career, shot six-of-eight from the field and seven-of-eight from the free throw line to lead the Irish with 19 points. Notre Dame's other two guards combined for 33 points; sophomore Ron Rowan scored I 7 while junior John Paxson tallied 16. 
The Dons took the early lead, but the Irish went ahead, 5-3. 2:50 into the game. Notre Dame never fell be­hind again. 
Notre Dame Coach Digger Phelps 

expressed his joy in Mitchell's fine 
performance. "I'm very happy foe 
Mike," Phelps said. "He's one of the 
great leaders I've ever had here. This 
is his team. He gives us loads of in­
spiration and I eadership. He's had to 
overcome hampering InJuries 
throughout his career here. This win 
is a credit to his dedication." 
USF Coach Peter Barry praised Mitchell after the game. "Mike was the difference tonight," he said. "Without his play, I think we had a victory. He decided to go out there and do the job. He played an in­spired game. Mike was aggressive, and he penetrated well. This is probably the first time in his four­year career that he has ac­complished so much. It's a shame we 'ud to be the opponent. 
The fact that USF was the oppon­nent had a lot to do with Mitchell's fine performance. He lives in San Bruno, Calif., about a half-hour's drive from San Francisco. Needless to say, he had a lot ofincentive going into last night's contest. 
"Everyone at home knows how great USF is," Mitchell said. "I wanted to play really well tonight. I'm very happy that I played better than before, and I'm overjoyed that we finally beat them." 
The victory was a credit to Notre Dame's defense. The Irish employed a variety of zones that kept San Fran­cisco off balance throughout the game. "We mixed our zones well," Phelps said. "We kept (Wallace) Bryant and (Quintin) Dailey under control." 
Dailey, a 6-3 junior guard, led all scorers with 24 points. Dailey, USF's leading scorer this season, averages 25 points a game. But last night, Dailey hit on just 9-of-17 shots from the field. 
Bryant, the Dons' seven-foot cen­
ter. managed just I 0 points on 4-of­
1 5 from the floor. He controlled the 
boards, however, pulling down 18 
rebounds. 
Barry credited Phelps and the 
Irish. "The Irish demonstrated great 
tempo control tonight," he said. 
"We never established any type of 
control. Digger had an excellent 
game plan." 
Last night's game plan, according 
to Phelps, was exactly the same as 
the game plan three weeks ago when 
the Dons squeaked by the Irish in 
Oakland, 57-55. Why, then, was last 
night's result different? 
"We didn't lose our cool," Phelps 
explains. "We stopped their 
momentum and managed to make 
free throws at the right time." 
As Phelps pointed out, free throws 
were a big factor. The Irish went to 
the charity stripe 45 times, convert­
ing on 29. The Dons, on the other 
hand, went to the line only 25 times, 
and connected on 14. 

SMC relaxes early, loses to Goshen 
By SARA ZAPPIA 
!>ports Writer 
It may not have had a Notre Dame­

San Francisco billing. It may not 
have had thousands of screaming 
fans in attendence. But what Angela 
Athletic Facility on the Saint Mary's 
campus did have was a basketball 
game tilled with excitement. 
Although the Belles came up one point short, losing to Goshen Col­lege 69-68, they played an ag­gressive and fast-paced game. 
It didn't start out that way though. Midway through the tlrst-half the score was 14-12, with both teams playing sluggishly. Then, nearing half-time, junior guard Anne Armstrong came on strong with three consecutive shots from the corner. The Belles started to roll. and at the half they led Goshen 29­27. 
SMC kept the first-half close with excellent defensive play, and several key rebounds. In addition, the Belles played a relatively foul-free half, committing only three team fouls. 
The second-half didn't start much faster than the first, but at 13:23 the Belles began to make their move. An effective fast-break, and some ag­gressive play inside by sophomore Lisa Schicz helped the Belles to build a 46-37 lead, with 11:03 remaining on the clock. SMC continued to put points on the board and at one time led by 13. 
What happened next happens to a 

lot of teams who carey a lead into. 
double figures. With 8: I 0 to go and a 
52-4llead, the Belles began to relax. 
"When you get into double figures, 
you tend w relax, and that's what we 
did," said SMC coach Jerry Dallasio. 
Goshen took full advantage of the 
SMC letdown and at 5:00 left they 
cut the lead to 56-49. They con­
tinued to roll. and when the clock 
read 3:29 Goshen had tied it up at 
%-56. 
Turnovers sent the ball back and 
forth with the teams exchanging few 
buckt:ts. Trish :'1/olan sank a key shot 
with I:20 left to give SMC a 6.0-58 
lead. :'-lot intimidated. Goshen evened the score again at 60-60, taking the game into overtime. 
Both teams played aggressively in the extra quarter, but it was an ex­cellent Goshen press that forced the Belles into making some costly tur­novers. "They had a good press and it flustered us," stated Dallasio.. 
In addition to playing an excellent defensive game, the Goshen team hit some clutch buckets that eventually led them to a 69-68 victory. "You have to give Goshen a lot ofcredit," said Dallasio. "They saw that they were behind, and put it into high gear." 
Junior guard Anne Armstrong led the Belles with 22 points. She was followed by Lisa Schirz and Mary Pat Sitlington, who scored I 7 and 14 points respectively. 
The Belles' next game will be 
away on Friday night against Ashland 
College. This will be their first game 
in the Hanover Tournament this 
weekend. 
Barry thought that some of his players, especially Bryant, should have gone to the free throw line more often. "It was a tough, physical game inside," he said. "Wallace should have been given more free throws." 
Free throws have been both the savior and the downfall for the Irish this season. In six of Notre Dame's last nine defeats, the Irish have been outscored by 66 points from the free throw line. Conversly, in the last tlve Irish victories (including last night's), they have outscored their opponents by 45 points from the line. 
The Irish were also hot from the field. hitting 61 percent of their shots. The Dons shot just 38 percent from the floor. 
"The fans helped Notre Dame tonight," Barry said. "We've had lapses at times this season. We've been overachievers ofa sort." 
Mitchell echoed Barry's com­ments about the fans. "The students have been teriffic to us," Mitchell said. "They've helped us gain the contldence necessary to win these close games." 
Phelps said that he had no trouble preparing his team for last night'.~ game. "I felt after we lost to San Fran­cisco in Oakland that the team would definitely be ready for tonight. It didn't really take much preparation to get them up for the game. 
"We've beaten two Top Ten teams in one week," Phelps adds. "I think we still have a shot at the NIT." 
see UPSET, page 14 


Digger Phelps' college record 
YOU HEARD IT HERE FIRST -When the Class of 
1963 graduated from Rider College in Trenton, N.J., few 
members of the class could guess what the future held 
for their fellow graduates. 
One of the better known members of that 1963 class 
was Irish basketball coach Richard "Digger" Phelps. 
Now, some 19 years later, most people know Digger 
Phelps the coach. But what was Digger Phelps the 
player like? 
Some digging in the Rider athletic archives yields a 
profile of the college cage Phelps. 
Phelps, who prided himself as a "defensive" player, 
averaged a robust 3.5 points per game during his 57­
game collegiate career. Phelps' best season output was 
during his junior year, when he scored I 07 points for a 
4.8 mean. 
Digger also averaged 3. 5 rebounds per game, with a season-high of Ill ( 5.0 average) during his junior year as well. Although Phelps got consistently better at the tine as his career progressed ( 20.0 to 61.3 to 81.2 per­cent), his tleld goal efficiency steadily declined from 
52.6 to 45.8 to 38.9 percult by his senior year. 
THE FINAL CONFLICT -Last night's San Francisco 
game marked the last contest in the nine-game series 
between the Dons and :'1/otre Dame. The Irish hold a 
tlnal 5-4 edge in the all-time series. Interestingly, the 
home team has won every game in the series. 
When asked about the disruption of the series after 
last night's game, Dons coach Pete Barry said, "I guess 
we can't afford the Irish anymore. We can't get together on a schedule date -it's purely money. It's a shame. We're just a poor, small, jesuit school." 
ROWAN ON A RUN -Freshman Ron Rowan, who seems to have turned on the talent during the team's extended homestand, has scored 83 o( his career-total 90 points in the last seven games. 
Rowan has led the team in scoring in three of its five homestand wins ( 13 vs. Davidson, 14 vs. Maryland and 17 against Idaho), scored I 7 points in last night's upset of San Francisco, and netted 16 points in the losing ef­fort against Marquette. In those five games plus the Maine contest, Rowan has connected on 30 of 52 field goal attempts (.577) and 23 of 31 (.742) at the free throw line. He has averaged 13.8 points and 29.3 minutes in the Davidson, Maryland, Idaho, Maine Mar­quette and San Francisco games. 
HOSPITAL WARD-When Irish center Tim Andree scored 4 points and grabbed 3 rebounds against Mar­quette on Saturday, few people realized the physical state Andree was in. Fighting the effects ofa I 03 degree fever, Andree left the infirmary hours before the game, dressed, played, showered and went back to the intlr­macy. 


CAGE CAPTAIN -Mike Mitchell, the captain and 
only scholarship senior on Digger Phelps' squad, has 
been playing the best basketball ofhis collegiate career 
in recent weeks. He has dished out I 5 assists in the last 
four games ( 1 vs. San Francisco, 4 vs. Idaho and 5 vs. 
Maine and Marquette), tossed in a then-career high 14 
points against Maine and topped that total with 19 
points on 6-of-8 shooting from the field last night. 
The San Bruno, Cal., product hit 58.5 percent of his 
field goals ( 24 of 41 ) during the month ofJanuary. 
BUSH LEAGUE -The action ofa few fans in the ACC 
last night was deplorable at best. While San Francisco 
freshman Mike Matheson lay on the court motionless 
with an injury that was undeterminable at the time, 
some fans thought it was the perfect time to cheer as 
someone tore up a poster taken from a Dons' booster. 
There is a tine line between school spirit and tact. and some people took a giant leap over that line. There is a time and a place for everything, and during the injury timeout last night was neither the time nor the place. 
Maybe Bill Granger was right. 
DEAD EYES -Marquette's 67.4 percent field goal shooting performance against the Irish on Saturday set a new school record for the visitors. The Warriors, who hit I 3 straight shots in the tlrst half, surpassed their pre­vious school standard of66.7 percent against Louisiana Tech on December 30, 1980. 
Marquette was only .8 percent below the record for an Irish opponent in the ACC. Had the Warriors made one more shot, or missed one less, they would have eclipsed the Notre Dame home mark of68.2 percent set by Lafayette on january 16, 1979. Lafayette sunk 30 of 44 shots that day. -PROFESSIONAL CREDENTIALS -A recent survey of National Basketball Association rosters has revealed that only UCLA and North Carolina have more basket­ball alumni playing in the NBA. At the start of the cur­rent season, the Tar Heels and Bruins each had nine ex-players on either active or injured reserve NBA ros­ters, while Notre Dame and Indiana each had seven. Next came Arizona State, Maryland and South Carolina who each had six ex-players in the professional league. 
Notre Dame's seven representatives ace 1981 
see DIGGER, page 14 

' 
' 
l ­




