
.Shootin 'Schueth -page 10
' ' 

VOL. XVI, NO. H:\ WEDNESDA Y,JANUARY 27, 19H2
an Independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
'New federalism' 

Reagan pron1ises better times 
WASIIIN<iTON (AP)-Presiucnt 
Reagan askt·u Congress last night to 
join in "a single, bolo stroke" by 
tran~krring S"i7 billion worth of 
federal social programs -and the 
taxes to pay for them -from Wash· 
ington to 'tate and local govern· 
mt·nts. 
I k said his plan. including the gradual shift ovn tht· next decade of tht· wdfare and tilOd-stamp programs, is designed "to make !o(OVt·rnmcnt again accountabil' to tht· pt:opk, to make our system of federalism work again." 
It was the t·cntl'fpkcc proposal in a State of the llnion message that promist·d bt·ttt:r times, "much bct­tt·r," if the nation continues on his courst· of bull get and tax reductions as the curt· ti>r recession and infla­tion. 
Retgan dedarcd he will "seek no tax increases this year and I have no intention of retreating from ou~ basic program of tax rdil'f." 
"I will not ask you to try to balance the budget on the backs of the American taxpayers," he said in the speech, schnlulnl ti>r delivery at 9 p.m. EST. 
lie vowed to the joint session of Congress and a nationwide broad­cast audience to ''put the economy out of its slump and put us on the road to prospt·rity." 
Reagan said that the tlscal I98_>, federal budget ddkit will be less than :S I00 billion and that "the policies we have in place will reduce the ddkit steadily, surely and, in time, completely." 
The president, describing his program as "a bold and spirited in­itiative that I believe can change the face of American government," outlined a second-year economic program in which his goal of turning many federal chores over to the states plays a central role. 

At the same time, he defcndcd his decision not to try to stem a balloon­ing fedcral detkit by incrcasing taxcs. 
"Highcr taxcs would not mean 
lower dctkits," thc p t rcsident said. 
"Raising taxcs won't balancc the 
budget." 
Reagan said that a "grass-roots 
trust fund," t11lcd by federal 
revcnucs, would distribute S2H bil­
lion a year to the SO statcs to pay for 
the additional responsibilities 
handed over to them. 
"The economy will face difficult 
moments in the months ahead," 
Reagan stated. "But, the program for 
economic recovery that is in place 
will pull the economy out of its 
slump and put us on the road to 
prosperity and stable growth by the 
latter halfof this year." 
Reviewing his first ycar in office, the president said, "We have made a new beginning, but we have only begun." 
He said that had he not pursued a policy of tax and spending cuts, "things would be far worse for all 
See STATE, page 4 
~ 
President Reagan speaks during a dinner at the White Housefor congressional leaders. The president delivered the State ofthe Uni­on message to a joint session ofthe House and Senate last night. (APPhoto) 

The IIPC discussed graft on campus, An Tostal, and the forthcoming meeting u•ith the Provost last night in St. Ed's. (Photo by Beth Prezio) 

HPCdiscusses graft, meeting with Provost 
By AMY BRECOUNT 
NewsStajf 
Accusations that Pangborn ti.JOd sales managers committed graft 
and an agrt·cment by Provost Timothy O'Meara to attend a March 
st·ssion highlighted last night's meeting of the Hall President's Coun­
cil. 
The president of Pangborn described the problems with food sales, 
spn·ulating that the managers had been reporting smaller profits than 
were actually being made. The managers had been contracted to turn 
over SO pcrccnt of their profits along with a rental fee. Hall presidents 
admittt·d the difficulty ofsupcrvising ti.mdsales, suggesting alternative 
methods which include requiring the rector's signature on all checks. 
In other business. Dr. O'Meara agreed to attend the first H.P.C. 
meeting in March to discuss the recent failure of the keg policy and 
the lack of communication between the student body and the ad· 
ministraion. 
Andy Tut·kcr from Ombudsman announced the extension of the 
deadline to pick up petitions l(>r the student senate. The poor turnout 
from all districts madt· this extension necessary. Petitions can be 
pickctl up touay in tht· O.B.U.D. oftkc beforc S p.m. and must be 
returncd tomorrow. 
The ll.P.C. also announced that An Tostal will be held April 20-24. IIall prc~idents will try to schedule formals around these dates. The council members were asked to till out surveys about each hall's study lounges. The library is analyzing the need ti>r permanently extended hours similar to those uuring cxam periods. 
'Damaging testimony' 

Teen links Williams, slain youth 
ATLANTA (AP) -A black teen­
ager testified as a surprise witness 
Tuesday that Wayne B. Williams 
lured him into a car and sexually 
fondled him. He also said he once 
saw Williams get into a car with a 
youth who was later slain. 
It was the most damaging tes­
timony to the dcfcnsc yet at Wil­
liams' murder trial, now in its tlfth 
week. 
The witness, who was not iden­
tified, said he saw Williams and 
Lubic Gctcr, I4, get into a car 
sometime during the tlrst weekend 
in January 1981. Geter is bdicved to 
have disappeared on Jan. 2 and was 
found slain a month later. 
The youth also said Williams was the man who approached him in th same area of south Atlanta in August 1980, invited him into a car and fondled his sex organ. 
"I can't forget his face," the wit­ness said. "I remember his face, I wake up and dream at night. He makes me sick." 
Williams, a 2.3-ycar-old black free­lance cameraman and sclfstyled talent scout, is charged with murdering Nathaniel Cater, 27, and Jimmy Ray Payne, 21, two of the 28 young blacks whose deaths were in­vestigated by a special police task force. 
Geter is onc of I 0 other slaying victims whom prosecutors arc attempting to link to Williams.Judge Clarence Cooper has ruled prosecutors may present evidence on the other killings for the purpose of establishing a pattern that mih fit the Cater and Payne slayings. 
Williams has denied knowing any of the 28 victims. 
Also Tuesday, Gov. George Bus­bee, Georgia Bureau ofInvestigation Director Phil Peters and former ac­ting U.S. attorney Dorothy Kirkley said they have been subpoenaed to testify for the defense. 
The three said they did not know 
why they were subpoenaed. ABC 
news reported Williams' lawyers 

Gasfumes killsailors, investigation begun 
SAN DIEGO (AP) -Two sailors 
on security patrol "keeled over" 
dead and a comrade who tried to 

help them also was killed whcn they came into contact with fumes from a Freon leak aboard a guided-missile cruiser, the Navy said. 
The Navy scaled off a compart­ment of the liSS Bainbridge, whkh was docked in San Diego at the time, officials said. 
Lt. Cmdr. Mark Baker, a Navy spokesman, said seven others who had tried to revive the stricken sailors with mouth-to-mouth resus­citation and other means spent 20 hours in a hospital receiving treat­ment for ill-effects of the gas. 
The dead were identified as Petty Oftkcr I st Class Joseph A. Durr, 26, and tire man Stuard L. Fields, 20, both of San Diego, and Petty Officer I st Class John V. Sullivan, 26, of Columbus, Ohio. 
Baker said Durr w~<o on security 
patrol, training Fields, '-vhcn they 
were overcome in the forward air­
conditioning plant, one of two 
aboard the ship. 
Sullivan was moonlighting for a 
private refrigeration company when 
he saw their problem, went for help, rcturncd and was also overcome, the spokesman said. 
"The compartmcnt where the 
incident occurred has been Sl'alcd," 
pending results ofa formal investiga· 
tion, Baker said. 
Capl. John f. Shaw, commanding 
officer of the Bainbridge, bt·gan a 
preliminary inquiry. 
The survivors' condition was listcd as good, and they wcrc scnt home yestcrdayy. They had been ad· mitted to San Diego Naval Hosital with "slight dizziness, numbing of fingers, nausea and blurred vision," a hospital spokesman said. 
Freon, a trademark for a derivative of ethane or mcthanc, is used as a solvent as well as a refrigerant. 
The deaths came a day after anoth­er fatal California military accident. Guntlre killed Pvt. Robert G. Solonika, 20, and injured three others during a training cxcrcisc Sunday night at Fort Irwin in the Mohave Desert northeast of Barstow. A preliminarytion indi­cated the fatality was caused by "small-arms fire," a civilian spkeman said. Fort Irwin is the Army's nt·w National Training Center. 
want to ask about a meeting at the governor's mansion last June 19, two days before Williams' arrest. 
The IS-year-old witness, whose identity was kept secret by agree­ment of the defense and prosecu­tion, said he was working in a carpet store in south Atlanta the day he saw Geter and Williams get into a "white and black-top automobile." 
"I seen Lubit' Geter get into the car with him," he said. The teen-ager said it was bctwel·n 
I p.m. and 2 p.m. when he saw Wil­
liams and Geter. An earlier witness 
testified she saw the two talking ncar 
the carpet store about .3 p.m. 
The youth said he recognized Wil­
liams as the man who approached 
him in August 19HO and "asked me if 
I wanted a job washing cars." The 
youth said hc acccptcd the otfcr and got into the man's car. 
The witness said the man asked him if he playt·d a musical instru­ment and if he had any money. 

Wednesday, january 27, 1982-page 2



NewsBrie!J 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
Fire-damaged Corby's Tavern wm definitely 
reopen March 1, Corby's spokesman Harold Rowley, Jr. said yester­day, adding that the reconstruction contract would be awarded today. An early morning fire on Sunday, Jan. 17, caused $50,000 in inaterial and structural damage to Corby's. Rowley predicted the day after the fire that Corby's would only close for 3-4 weeks in order to repair the interior and the roof. -The Observer. 
Two passengersfrom a World Airways DC-10 jet that slid off a runway into Boston Harbor over the weekend are missing and feared drowned, officials said yesterday, three days after they said no one had been killed in the accident. Asked if the bodies ofthe father and son were believed to be in the harbor, Edward Ringo, senior vice president of the airline, said, "It's pretty obvious." Divers immediately returned to the scene to search for bodies. It had been believed that all 196 passengers and 12 crew members escaped serious injury when the plane slid off the runway at Logan Interna­tional Airport on Saturday night. Three people remained hospitalized yesterday for minor injuries. But Ringo said a computer check of tickets and the discovery ofcarry-on luggage showed two passengers unaccounted for. -AP 
Kremlin ideologist Mikhail Andreyevich Suslov, powerful member of the Soviet Union's ruling Politburo, has died and left a void in the aging leadership already beset by growing problems at home and abroad. Soviet television reported yesterday that Suslov died the previous afternoon, four days after suffering a stroke. He will be buried in Moscow's Red Square beside other famous Communists, the broadcast said. Suslov was known in the West as a powerful but mysterious man who worked closely with Soviet President Leonid I. Brezhnev, 75. To his countrymen, Suslov was the guiding ideologist of the Soviet Communist Party, which dominates every aspect of Soviet life. "He was the second pillar of 
the regime," said 'One Western diplomat. "This must be a major shock for Brezhnev himself." -AP 
The nation's Indian tribes, literally living on 
top of a quarter of the country's mineral wealth, can tax those who retrieve that wealth, according to the Supreme Court. For the first time, the court on Monday said that Indian tribes may impose severance taxes on natural resources taken from their reservation lands. The ruling is a victory for the tiny Jicarilla Apache tribe and a setback for the large oil companies holding oil and natural gas leases on the tribe's northwestern New Mexico reservation But the deci­sion also will affect numerous other reservations. "This is an ex­tremely important decision for the maintenance of tribal governments through the raising of revenues," said Albuquerque, N.M., lawyer Robert Nordhouse, who represented the jicarilla Apache tribe. "Now, aside from collecting royalties, tribes are en­titled to receive tax monies for governmental services such as road maintenance and police protection," he said. -AP 
Police searching a home during a drug raid found what may be a human fetus in a wooden box in a freezer, detectives said. Detective Ron Mayoral said Catherine Devine, 33, who lived alone at the house, said the fetus was hers, but declined to discuss it. Sam Mcintire, a spokesman for the Denver Coroner's Office, said Monday night because of the state of decomposition, an autopsy would be required to determine if the fetus were human or not. He said Ms. Devine was taken to jail, where she was held for investiga­tion of possessing a controlled substance. Officers confiscated an undisclosed amount of cocaine, quaaludes, handguns and a rifle, when they searched the house on Monday, he said. Mayoral said no charges were filed in connection with the fetus, pending an inves­tigation by the police homicide division. -AP 
Kenny Rogers has won three more American Music Awards, adding to the four he won last year, topping the late John Lennon as the year's best pop-rock male vocalist. In the nationally televised awards Monday night, Rogers also won, in both the pop­rock and country categories, for his album "Greatest Hits." Lennon, who was shot to death outside his New York apartmen·t building 13 
months ago, had been nominated as best male vocalist, and his album "Double Fantasy," which he recorded with his wife, Yoko Ono, was a top contender in the pop-rock category. Other winners were the soft-rock group Air Supply from Australia, as best pop-rock group, and Lionel Richie and Diana Ross, who recorded the best pop-rock and soul single record "Endless Love." -AP 
Partly cloudy,windy and cold today with the high in the low to mid 30s. tonight cloudy with a -::hance of light snow or rain. Near steady temperatures. Tomorrow a chance oflight snow or rain with the high in the low to mid 30s. Chance of precipitation is 40 percent tonight. -AP 
Bishop, film.s address same issues 
The issues that the Social Concerns film series presents this week serve as an appropriate introduction for Archbishop Raymond Hunthausen, scheduled to lecture here Friday on a Christian response to nuclear 
arms. 

The film series opened yesterday with "The King of 
Hearts", the story of a soldier sent to disarm a bomb 
who discovers a forgotten insane asylum and is 
embraced as its king. This comedy deals with "the tri­
umph of child-like innocence over the violent self­
destructiveness ofthe civilized world". 
Hunthausen states that he has been told by some that 
unilateral disarmament in the face of atheistic com­
munism is insane. He responds to this by noting that he 
feels nuclear armament by anyone to be "itselfatheistic 
and anything but sane." His call for unilateral nuclear 
disarmament and suggestion that Christians if!_ the 
United States should consider withholding half of their federal income tax as a non-violent protest against "nuclear murder and suicide" drew international atten­tion last year. 
The next film in the series, "True Confessions", deals with the conflicting loyalties of two brothers drawn to­gether in the aftermath of the murder of a young pros­titute. This film was 

nonviolence". 
The documentary film "Excuse Me, America" raises 
questions as to whether a non-violent solution to the 
world's injustice is possible, and whether a violent solu­
tion would be a solution at all. 
In a speech delivered at Pacific Lutheran University in Tacoma, Washington, Hunthausen quotes jesuit Father Richard McSorley, who wrote that "the taproot of violence in our society today is our intention to use nuclear weapons." McSorley adds that"once we have agreed to that, all other evil is minor in comparison, noting that any hope of large scale improvement of public morality is doomed to failure." 
Hunthausen agrees with McSorley, commenting that "our willingness to destroy life everywhere on this earth, for the sake of our 

criticized as "inappropriate" security as Americans, is at for the Social Concerns the root of many other ter­series by Brother Rodney rible events in our country." Struble, Assistant Rector of The documentary Stanford hall, who felt that "Hiroshima" shows some of the content was more the drawings by survivors of "Hollywood dramatization" the atomic bomb which than an accurate presenta­were collected in Japan in tion ofcontroversial issues. 1974 and 1975, offering 'a 
Hunthausen addresses the glimpse of what really hap­loyalty issue regarding the pened'. nuclear arms situation, Hunthausen recalls suggesting that there is cur­hearing the news of the rently more security put in atomic bombing of Hiros­weaponry than God. He hima in 1945. "I was deeply proposes in a speech shocked," he said, noting reiterated in The Catholic that he could not put into Northwest Progress that words the shock he felt from 
"failure to achieve mutual disarmament leaves us with only one moral position in this tragic situation, the posi­tion of unilateral disarmament with trust and reliance on the Lord as our security." 
"Dr. Strangelove" is a 'comic nightmare', seeing the United States and Russia cooperating in an effort to save the world from disaster after a madman releases bom­bers in an attempted nuclear attack. 
In the speech "The Calling to Lose our Lives for Peace", Hunthausen calls a nuclear first-strike weapon "the ultimate violation of both God's law and interna­tionallaw." He adds that preparations for a nuclear war of aggression, as seen in our deployment of the Trident submarine, the MX, and the cruise missile, are a direct violation of those Nuremberg Principles which America affirmed and upheld after World War II. He also observes that "our race for nuclear dominance is making us a godless and lawless force in the world." He continues that former Trident missile designer Roone Aldridge calls the coming to Pugent Sound of the Tri­dent submarine "an opportunity for all ofus to examine our hearts and lives to determine our commitment to 

Design Editor............. Ryan Vcr Berkmoes 
Design Assistall/................. Marilyn Larkin 
Typesetters ..........•.........•..... jim MacLennan 
BruceOakky 
News Assistant ..................... David Sarphie 
Copy Editors .................. Maureen O'Toole 
Joe Musumeci 
Features Layout.............. Gregory Swiercz Sports Copy Editor .................. Ed Konrady Typist................................. , ..... Laura Degnan ND Day Editor.....................joe .Musumeci SMC Day t:ditor...........•... Toni Rutherford Ad Design....................john & Mary & Bob Photographer............................ Beth Prezio Guest Appearanus ...................\1ad Maura Merry Monica Dangerous Ddrdre 


the  news  that  a  city  of  
hundreds  of thousands  of  
people had been devastated by a single bomb.  

Hunthausen also notes that he could not believe that there was an instrument ofdestruction "as awesome as this bomb". "I was caught up in a great turmoil wonder­ing, worrying, praying about this, and I could not grasp that our world had totally changed. Hiroshima changed my faith as a Christian in a way I am only now beginning to understand." 
Hunthausen adds that he lived with the reality of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, wondering about the upheaval in the world but not doing anything about it. In 1975, after talking to Jim Douglass of the Pacific Life Com­munity, Hunthausen decided to publicly expresss his stance on the nuclear issue. He spoke about withhold­ing war taxes as a feasible strategy because "sometimes people need to think about the implications (ofnuclear weapons) in their own lives." 
N.D. Student Union's Annual 
SPRING BREAK 
lll 


DAYTONABEA 
6/ room March 12-2


4/room 
~1ax and Prod 

ign up now at the Ticket Office/ Record
A really good kid J-C-·-Pon Far 


Store 
Missing Notebooks Them 
lOam-4 Mon.-Fri. or call283-3031 





==Ihe_ObseO{er==
Founded November 3, 1966 The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report­ed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinio~ of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are th.e vtews of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the commumty, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, ii encounged. 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame,.IN 46556 
Editorial Board 

J:"tlilor-in-Cbief. ............................ .John McGrath Executive News Editor............. . . . . Kdli Flint Sports Editor................. .. ......... Skip Desjardin Neu•s Editor.......... .................. David Rickabaugh Photo Edilor....................................... .]ohn ,\tacor SMC Executil'e Editor........... :vtary Agnes Care~ Edilorials Editor. .....Anthony Walton SMC News Etlitor......................Cathy Domanico Features Editor .......... .............Gregory Swiercz 

Department Managers 

Business Ma"nager .........................Rich Coppola Production .Wanager.................. \tichael Monk Controller.............................................joe Mulflur Circulalicm .Wanager ...Tom :vtaclennan Adz•ertising Manager .......................Chrb Owen S)•stems .Wanager ....... ..... Bruce Oakle~ 
. -~-------·-----~------------~~------~-----~~----~--~-----------------·-------­
Wednesday,January 27, 1982-page 3 
The Observer 
After 24hours 


Reactor crisis under coritrol 
ONTARIO, N.Y. (AP) -The emagent·y caused by a steam tube rupture at the R.E. Ginna nuclear plant was declared at an end yester­day as technicians worked to bring the reactor to a cold shutdown 
The plant, run by Rochester Gas & Electric Corp., had been in emer­gency stages for 26 hours since tht· accident Monday morning. 
"The emergency is over. The situation is stable. Operators are making preparations for the cleanup of the spilled water," said Jan Strasma, spokesman t(Jr the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. "It~ the mop-up phase, if you will." 
Officials said the reactor was cooling down satisfactorily and a cold shutdown -the process of bringing the reactor's temperature below the boiling point of 2 I 2 degrees at normal pressure -was hoped for by late by late yesterday or this morning. 
A site emergency, the second most serious in a four-level clas­sification system -and by NRC definftion a situation that poses the potential of health effects for the public -had gone into effect 75 minutes after the 9:28 a.m. Monday burst. 
It was downgraded to an alert, the third must serious level, at 7:15p.m. Monday, and the alert was canceled 
WARSAW, Poland (AP)-A lll'W 
protest ll·tt~:r from 2"' intellectuals 
yt·sterday demanded Poland's mar­
ual law authorities end "beating, 
maltrt·atmcnt and harassrnl·nt of 
people deprived of thdr liberty." 
Tht· letter surfan:'d al'tt·r parlia· nll'nt approved military rule and named a military hiMorian to run thl· univcr!>ities. 
The protest, signed by intcllcc· nwls, writer~ and artists, said in­tnned workers were getting worse treatment than intdlcctuals and called for publication of a full list of internees and the sites where they arc held. Informed sources estimate about 'iO,OOO Poles arc held under the martial law decree that suspended the independent union Solidarity Dec. I:\ -more than 10 times the number the Communist regime admits. Solidarity leader Lcch Walcsa is believed held some­where outside Warsaw. 
Knowledgeable sources said Walesa's wik and children visited him last week. 
The International Committee of the Red Cross in Geneva said Poland allowed it to visit about 'iOO inter· necs in two camps Friday and Sun· at I I: 15 a.m. yesterday. 
Meanwhile, federal officials voiced concern about the recur· renee of 'steam tube failures. The incident at Ginna, a Westinghouse­designed, pressurized water reactor, was the fifth time in eight years that a steam tube had burst at a nuclear plant, according to the NRC. 
"The industry is very concerned about it because it's an operational problem," Strasma said. There also is an industry-wide problem with premature tube degradation. 
There are 3,260 steam tubes in each of Ginna's two generators, and they tend to become corroded with caked up crud and mineral deposits. "The only way it can develop into a serious problem is if a number of tubes fall," Strasma said. 
Other tube ruptures have oc· currcd at Point Beach in northern Wisconsin on Feb. 26, 1975; Surry Point in Gravel Neck, Va., in Scptem· ber of 1976; Prairie Island in Red Wing, Minn., on Oct. 2, 1979; and the Duke Power Co.'s Oconee Unit in South· Carolina in September of 1981. 
The biggest part of the Ginna cleanup involved purification of II ,000 gallons of radioactive water in the containment building. 
Sump pumps will carry the water to a holding tank in the auxiliary 
day in the tirst such opnation in the Soviet bloc. The Red Cross did not nHnment on the conditions of the imernees or the camps. 
The main signature on the protest letter was that ofdissidt·nt kadaJan jozcf Lipski, who was internt:d for trial on charges oforganizing a strike at the llrsus tractor factory in War­saw after martial law was declared. 
The new lcucr li.>llowcd criticism of martial law last week by Poland's Roman Catholic bishpps, some 120 intellectuals and a leading Com­munist liberal, Stefan Hratkowski. 
Parliament's vote to ratify the martial law decrees was accom­panied by a resolution endorsing the speech Monday by Polish leader Gen. Wojciech Jaruzclski, including his call for an casing ofsome restric· tions. 
Secretary of State Alexander M. Haig Jr. and Soviet foreign Minister Andrei Gromyko met for nearly eight hours in Geneva yesterday, al· most twice the t t imc scheduled, but gave no details of their talks. Haig said earlier he wanted to discuss the Sovkt role in the Polish crackdown, but G .romyko refused. 
building. The water will be 
evaporated and the radioactive 
material solidified so it can be 
shipped offfor burial, the NRC said. 
"The bottom line is the plant is stable. It's going to cold shutdown in an orderly manner. There are no radiation relea.o;es from the plant," said john Obcrlies, chiefspokesran for the utility. which serves om: mi.­lion customers in the Greater Roc­hester area. 
By midday, the temperature in the primary cooling system was 325 degrees and falling. 
Radiation monitoring away from the plant, located 16 miles northeast of Rochester, continued to show on­ly normal background levels. 


'Problems In Eating' 
Psych Services continues program 
By KATHLEEN DOYLE 
NewsStaff 
The pioneering effort of the 
"Problems in Eating" ( P.I.E.) 
program will be continued by the 
Psychological Services Center this 
semester. 
An organizational meeting for old 
and new P.I.E. members will be held 
tomorrow, jan. 28, at 7 pm in the 
Psychological Services Center 
located on the third floor of the Stu· 
dent Health Center. 
This program, spawned by the in· crease in anorexia nervosa (self-starvation) and bulimia (binge· eating) victims, and under the guidance of Dr. Daniel Rybicki and Dr. Susan Stcibe, began last Oct. The 
P.I.E. group was both didactic and experiential. It provided informa­tion on nutrition and healthy lifestyles while allowing the par· ticipants to experience the therapeutic process of group sup· port. 
The program focused on the link between eating and emotion. Rybicki and Steibc attempted to ap­proach the problem of eating disor· ders in a manner different from most. Their approach investigated a multi-faceted etiology. They ex­amined a variety of possible causes rather than simply subscribing to one theoretical cause for the disor· dcr. This method provides for a variety of treatments and will be implcmen~cd again this semester. 
"We feel good about last semes· ter," Stcibc said. "The people who attended the sessions seemed to en­joy them as much as we did. 
"The sessions were planned to be informative. but one of the major fringe bcnctits was the cohesiveness of the group. A real level of dis· closure was reached." 
The Psychological Services Cen· tcr also sponsored a workshop on eating disorders for rectors. As a result of this, Rybicki and Stcibc fed that consciousness of the problem has been raised. The hall staffs have been an excellent referral service for them. 
"Eating disorders arc ditlicult to admit to and change," Rybicki said. "The biggest hurdle in dealing with these problems is admitting to them. Awareness of eating disorders on 

Accountants offeraid 
Forty-five seniors from the Uni­versity of Notre Dame's Department of Accountancy will participate in the eleventh annual Notre Dame Tax Assistance Program. 
At several locations in the South­Bend/Mishawaka 1ll'ca, the student volnteers will assist family heads with incomes of S18,000 or less in preparation of their IRS returns. 

campuses has increased. We have, in fact, been asked to speak in dorms. On these campuses it is an important enough problem. The physical ef. fccts of anorexia and bulimia arc harmful. But just knowing that is not enough to make a person change. Those suffering from eating disor· dcrs need help to change and the group members add the support needed." 
"We arc finding that we are dealing with underlying problems such as body image, intimacy, parents, and self-expectation," Stcibc said. "The majority of the time has been spent on these underlying issues and how people use food to cope with these problems. 
"This is a woman's issue. There ap· pears to be a conflict between what the media says is feminine and one's own internal standards and values regarding femininity and womanli· ness." 
Rybicki and Steibe will be seen in the near future on the television program "Studio 16." On this show 





2 IMMEDIATE OPENINGS FOR COLlEGE STUDENTS WORKING TOWARD A BS/BA IN ENGINEERING. MATH,w PHYSICS. OR CHEMISTRY. INCLUDES A FULL YEAR OF GRADUATE LEVEL NUCLEAR TRAINING AT OUR EXPENSE WITH A $3.000 BONUS UPON COMPLETION.a: • 
EARN A STARTING SALARY OF

.( $24,100 THAT INCREASES TO OVER $44,800 AFTER FOUR YEARS., PLUS FREE MEDICAL AND DENTAL
w 
CARE, UNLIMITED SICK LEAVE, THIRTY DAYS ANNUAL PAID VACATION. AND
...EXECUTIVE CLUB PRIVILEGES. 
PERSONNEL WILL BE ON CAMPUS

CJ February 10-11, 1982 
2 
::) DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY 575 N. PENNSYLVANIA STREET OFFICE 646 OPO INDIANAPOLIS. IN 46204 317-269-6183 OR 1-800-382-9404 
to be aired on Channel 16 the two will discuss the problem of eating disorders. A member of the P.l.E. group will join them. 
The response to P.I.E. has initiated plans for the future. "Plans are for­ming for next year. We are consider· ing the possibility ofstarting earlier, perhaps at registration," Rybicki said. 
Symptoms of eating impulst; dis­orders include rapid weight loss, binge eating, tendency to be highly active and sports-minded, highly restricted diet, self-starvation, self· induced vomiting, intense fear of becoming overweight, and sen· sitlvity to cold. If you recognize these symptoms in yourself or someone you know, then consider contacting Dr. Rybicki or Dr. Steibc at 9·239·7336. Prospective group members are asked to contact the Center in order to arrange a con· sultation to determine if the group would meet their needs and ex· pcctations. The Center emphasizes the confidentiality of all contacts in the Center. 
• 


The Observer Wednesday, january 27, 1982-page 4 


"IfTom Paine Calls, Tell Him Things Are not Working Out" was the catchy title of a lecture given by Professor Sam Bowles in Fitzpatrick Hal/last night. (Photo by Beth Prezio) 
Don't monkey around Read SHOWCASE Page6 
Who will be first 
to sweep the skies of the world? 
We pioneered 3·0 radar. Today we're a world leader in automated air defense systems. Our sonar, radar, communications, computers, software, and displays form total interactive systems for whole countries. 
From undersea systems to the depths of space, a career in our Hughes Aircraft group really has no limits for the holder of a BS or MS degree in virtually any electronic, scientific, computer, or technical discipline. 
Outside Los Angeles, here in thriving Orange County, we'll introduce you to people, ideas, and jobs that could change your world. And ours. 
r------------------,
I I

It could be you and Hughes 
I 
HUGHES:

Ground Systems 
I I
L------------------J
HUGHES AIRCRAFT COMPANY 
GROUND SYSTEMS Proof of U.S. Citizenship Required Equal Opportunity Employer 
·• 

We '11 be on campus February 3, 1982 
See your placement office for an appointment. 
For '57years' 

Lab averages one patent daily 
NEWARK, N.J. (AP) -At Bell Laboratories, there's something new every day -quite literally. In its 57 years as the research arm of American Telephone & Telegraph Co., its scientists have produced more than 19,500 patents. 
"We like to say we have received an average of one patent per working day since we began in 1925," said spokesman Bob Ford. 
. Inventions have gone far beyond the telephone: the invention of the transistor, the laser and the electri­cal digital computer, origination of sound movies and development of radio altimeters. 
Seven Bell Labs scientists have shared three Nobel prizes. 
When U.S. District Judge Vincent Biunno approved AT&T's plan to settle a long-standing antitrust case, he likened Ma Bell's research arm to the 15th century court of Lorenzo the Magnificent, which included Michelangelo and other Italian Renaissance geniuses. 
Bell Labs researchers developed devices to measure human hearing and speech waves, solar batteries, satellites, and countless innovations routinely used in radar, defense sys­
tems and computer language. 

But those creations were just for starters. With AT&T's divestiture of 22 local operating telephone com­panies, the antitrust settlement will take the shackles off Bell Labs, allow­ing Ma Bell for the first time to profit from scientific discoveries in unreg­ulated fields. 
Since 1956, AT&T has been under court order not to dabble in fields like computers, information stems and cable television. 
Bell Labs scientists liken the an­titrust settlement to the unlocking of a door, a chance to broaden research horizons. 
"We can follow anything," said Arno Penzias, a Nobel laureate who was promoted last month to vice president ofresearch, where he hads a department that in the past half century has dabbled in virtually 
every conceivable field of science in Murray Hill, Whippany and and communication. Holmdel, N.J., and Naperville, Ill. In Penzias shared the I978 Nobel in all, it has 17 facilities in nine states. physics for the discovery of back­Under the settlement, AT&T will ground radiation left over from the be allowed to enter lucrative new 
_"big bang" explosion thought to computer fields, including home in!­formation services. But Penzias says it is a "tall order" for scientists to 

simplifY computers so they can be mass-marketed. They must make the computers "smarter," accept voice commands, perform more functions and store more data. 

Bell Laboratories took a first step have formed the universe 18 billion last year in announcing a silicon chip years ago. -the size ofa thumb nail -packed 
Bell Labs, created through the with 130,000 transistors capable of merging of the research depart­processing 32 bits of information at mentsatAT&Tand Western Electric once. Co., today has a budget of S1.6 bil­The next step will be announced lion and almost 25,000 employees next month: a computer memory (3,325 of whom have doctorate device that can store 256,000 bits of degrees) at major research facilities information. 
Theifreturns tnoney, UJrites victitn apology 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -It was 
dark when Dorothy Gatlin arrived 
home. Although she had been 
mugged on her doorstep a couple of 
years ago, she wasn't particularly 
scared. 
Her apartment complex at 42nd Street and Post Road is a busy place. As she fumbled with the key to the front door, she could see by the lights that most of her neighbors · were awake and watching televi­sion. 
Before she could get the door 
open, a man jumped from the 
shadows and raced toward her. She 
screamed and tried to hold on to her 
purse as he grabbed for it. 
"He had a hold of the purse strap and was pulling me with it." she said. "I kept hanging on. I suppose I should have given up the purse, but I had an unusually large amount of money in it, and I didn't want to lose it. 
"Finally, he pushed me. I fell and hit my head hard on the cement walk. 1 was stunned, and my head really hurt. That's when he got the purse away from me. I kept scream­ing, but I guess nobody could hear over their television sets. 
"It was kind of funny because when he saw me lying there he seemed upset, and I thought for a moment he might stop and help me. But he didn't. He just ran off." 
The man was about 6 feet tall and of stocky build. Dorothy is 64 years old and 5 feet tall. 
"A real matchup" is the way she described it. 
Dorothy went to the hospital where she was treated for cuts and bruises and given some medication to help the ringing in her head. She was off three days from her job as office manager at a Moose lodge. 
Pohce wrote a report of the crime and did what they could, but all they 
...State 
had to go on was her description ofa stocky white man in his early 20s who was clean shaven and neatly dressed. 
The next day, Dorothy received a phone call from a youngster who found her purse, minus the money. It was found in a small stream about a mile from her apartment. Her credit cards and idemitication were still in it. 
Nine days passed, and Dorothy wasn't expecting to see her money again as she arrived home on anoth­er dark night. Harboring equally dark thoughts about mankind, she found a long. plain envelope in her mailbox. 
Inside the envelope was a careful­ly printed note that read, "Dor()[hy. I'm sorry if I hurt you. Here is your money. I'm very sorry." 
Next to the note was a money or­
der for S162.:30, the exact amount 
she had when she was robbed. 
"The money order w;u; purchased 
at a Haag's Drug Stqre and signed 
John Doe," she said. "'rhere wa~ no 
way for police to trace iL Police have 
different theories about this. Some 
say maybe I was robbed by a young 
man who needed money desperate· 
ly and when he got paid, he paid me 
back. Others think maybe his 
parents or wife or someone in the 
family found the money and made 
him send it hack. · 
Applicationdate extended 
The deadline for applications· for the Washinton, D.C. Seminar ha~ been extended until Fr.i., Jan. 2':) at" P..\1. Applications should be turned into the Center for Experiential L<:arning 

continuedfrom page I 
Americans than they are today. Infla­tion, taxes and interest rates would all be higher." 
The president proposed putting a cap on benefit programs operating under congressional mandate, and said his plan could save S63 billion over four years "without affecting Social Security." 
In a brief reference to foreign policy, Reagan said that "toward those who would export terrorism and subversion in the Caribbean and elsewhere. especially Cuba and Libya, we will act with firmness." 
"When action is called for, we are 
taking it," he said. "Our sanctions against the military dictatorship that has attempted to crush human rights in Poland -and against the Soviet regime behind that military dictator­ship -clearly demonstrated to the world that America will not conduct 'business as usual' with the forces of oppression." 
"If the events in Poland continue to deteriorate, further measures will follow," he said, without further ex­planation. 
He said that his program would continue with two priorities: "a strong national defense ...and a reliable safety net ofsocial programs for those who have contributed and those who are in need." 


The Observer Wednesday,January 27, 1982-page 5 

U.S. Secretary of State Alexander Haig meets with Swiss Foreign Minister Pierre Aubert, left, in Geneva Monday. Haig met with Soviet Foreign 
Club revives, aids poor com.m.un1t1es 
By MIKE LEPRE arc just beginning to realize that a News Sltlf/ K·Ciub exists at Notre Dame," citt:s Pagt:,"and with t:ach ncw meeting 
Thc Circlt: K-Ciub of Notrc Dame ounnt:mbt:rship is growing." 
has been reactivatcd after disband· Since its rt:appearance in early 
mcnt two years ago due to lack of Novt:mbt:r of 1981, tht: club has 
imcrcst. aided in the collection of donations 
Wcs Gaincy, a sophomore and the to tht: Salvation Army, and has currcnt president ofthe club, was in· helped out in the Landon Turner strumental in the group's rejuvena· Fund drive. Future activitit:s call for tion. projt:cts such as a twenty-four hour 
Aservice organization whose goal basketball gamt:, a papt:r drive, a 
is to help deprived people of nearby chocolate heart sale during communities through contributions Valentine's Day, participation in to local charities, the K·Ciub works snow softball, and possibly selling in conjunction with the South Bend newspaper subscriptions in chapter of the Kiwanis Club. cooperation with the South Bend 
The Circle K-Ciub itself is run Kiwanis Club. "almost totally by students," accord· The Club also forsces participa· ing to the group's Public Relations tion in a "Christmas in April" Chairman Jeff Page. Page also noted program aimed at aiding local that Roland Smith, a professor at homt:owners in the upket:p of their Notre Dame and a Kiwanis Club . property. This project would entail member himself, acts "solely as the obtaining names of the poorer group's advisor." families in the area and sending out 
The primary force behind the K·Ciub members to these location rcinstitution of the club was Wes to perform odd jobs. Gainey, who was a prominent mcm· At the present time, the majority 
Atmosphere poisoned 
her of a key club while in high of the funds raised by the club's ac· 
school. Gainey explains that as a tivitics are appropriat~d to charities 
result of his being an officer in the through the Kiwanis Club of South 
Haig, Gromyko discuss polish crisis 
key club, "the governor of K·Club in Bend. While, according to Page, tht:y. 
the Indiana district contacted me,  "arc a young club, just trying to get  GENEVA,  Switzerland  (AP)  - 
asking me to try to bring back the  our feet off the ground for now" he  Secretary ofState Alexander M. Haig,  
club here at Notre Dame."  ft:cls that with increased manpower  Jr. concluded nearly eight hours of  
Gainey, without the aid of the Uni·  "the organization could grow to the  intense  discussions  with  Soviet  
vcrsity, got in contact with the South  point where  we would be able to  Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko  
Bend Kiwanis, who agreed to spon·  function on our own."  last  night and said  martial law  in  
sor the organization for Notre Dame  President  Gainey  feels  that  for  Poland had "cast  a  long and dark  
studt·nts. The Circlc·K has built itself  now his group is "concentrating on  shadow" over every aspt:ct of their  
a  membership of 39 students, and  trying to build a strong foundation  talks.  
Gainey notes that recently "the Uni·  so  that  the  club  won't  collapse  'He  said  that  Gromyko,  while  
vcrsity  is  very  enthusiastic  in  again." As for long range goals for the  cxprt:ssing the view that the situa·  
supporting the group."  Circlt: K-Ciub , Page comments that  tion in Poland is a purely internal  
Termed a "college !cvel key club"  he  would  like  to  sec  the  Club  matter, nonetheless took part with  
by Page, the club is steadily gaining  "increase in size in order to become  him in a detailed "two-sidt:d" discus·  
needed  publicity. "Many  students  an influential member of the Notrt:  sion of the Polish crisis.  
Dame family."  

'Booby trap ' 
Secondpot tnurder trial opens 
I.AFAYETfl!, Ind. (AP) -Robert fixed the wt:apon so shot would how the shotgun was rigged and Sullivan was killed in a trap that used caust: only minor wounds to anyone said, "Then there was the other part marijuana plants growing on a porch who attempted to break in. of the trap. There was a planter and a shotgun rigged to fire when a Judge Warren B. Thompson ruled across the whole width of the porch door was touched, Prosecutor John in a pretrial hearing Monday the containing 6S marijuana plants, and Meyers told a Tipt:anc Circuit Court prosecution could introduce another marijuana plant could be jury. evidence about marijuana found at seen in the window ofthe trailer." 
The jury of 10 men and two Ratcliff's home. He said Sullivan may have at· women was seated yesterday for the The t:vidcnce was surprcsscd tempted an unlawful entry "but the second trial of Gary Ratcliff, 29, of during the first trial which ended marijuana was a lure, a provocation, Romney. He is charged with reckless last May IS. an cntict:mcnt and a part of the homicide and involuntary 
The ruling, according to a court trap." manslaughter for the June 1980 oft1cial, allows the prosecution to Dcknsc attorney E. Kent Moore death ofSullivan, 16, ofStockwell. present evidence and to argue that said Ratcliff' and his wife had chosen Ratditl's first trial ended with a the prcscnct: of marijuana provoked to establish a home they believed to hung jury. the victim into a burglary attt:mpt be a secure one. Ratcliffs home was Sullivan was killed by a shotgun which resulted in his death. burglarized four times before he set blast when ht· tried to open the Tippecanoe County police said the trap. 'torm door of Ratclitl's rural mobile that while inVt:stigating Sullivan's Moore also referred to Ratclifl's homt· during an alleged burglary at· death they found 6S small marijuana attempt to catch tht: burglars by tempt. Ratcliff' was not at home. plants outside Ratclitl's homt:, along staying home from work and a state The defendant testified during his with marijuana and items t(Jr using it law that allows a person to usc dead· 
tlrst trial he rigged a shotgun loaded insidt• the homt:. ly force to protect his home. with salt and shot after repeated Marijuana charges tllcd in the case Meyers, howcvt:r, said nothing of brcak·ins at his home. lit-said he had havt: hcen put aside by the judge for value was taken from the home 
later court action. during the burglarit:s except a In his opening argument Tuesday, stereo microphone, some loose 
At a news conference, Haig minister discussed tht: status of tht: described the talks as "vt:ry sober talks in Geneva on reducing nuclear and extremely detailed," and said he missiles in Europe, which Haig told Gromyko the United States is called "the major source of nuclear prepared to begin negotiations on tension here in Europe." the reduction of strategic nuclear Haigsaid that th t cy also discussed weapons "when conditions permit." the situation in Central America, 
Cuba, Afghanistan, southern Africa 

But he made it clear that the and many other issues. Reagan administration bdicvcs such nt:gotiations cannot take place in an He called the lengthy talks international atmosphere he said is "beneficial from the standpoint of 
poisoned by events in Poland. necessary communication ...be· 
Haig told reporters that Poland tween the Soviet Union and the will not be the only factor in dccid· United Statt:s." ing when the time is right to begin 
The high-level encounter was thethe talks. 

first between the super-powers

"I am not giving you a litmus test since the military crackdown inof conditions but mt:rdy a broad Poland on Dec. 13. Haig andstatement of the influence of the Gromyko conferred in late Septcm·
Polish situation on the current en· her in New York.
vironmcnt," Haig said. He said President Reagan is The talks, which Haig had said "anxious" for the talks to begin be· could be brief ifGromyko rt:fused to cause he gt:nuincly wants discuss martial law in Poland, lasted "meaningful reductions in strategic seven hours and SO minutes in 
armaments." 
morning and afternoon sessions. 

Haig said he and Gromyko did not 
The schedule had called for a pair of discuss the possibility of a summit 

two-hour meetings.meeting between Reagan and Soviet President Leonid I. Brczhncv. Haig Before leaving Washington, the and Gromyko did not agree to hold U.S. side had trimmed the time ofthe another meeting, but Haig said such encounter from two days to one, in a .. meetings could be arranged on short move to underscore determination ' notice. not to conduct "business as usual," He said he and the Soviet foreign while martial law pcrsists in Poland. 

TEACH IN FLORIDA 
No Experience Necessary 
tmmedia111 opecil~g~ tor ~uaiBI wtlh a Bechekn DetJM in Math, Physcs. Chemay, 01 EngiiiMting to 11tach axnee In science an:! 18Cht I06oOY of NuaNr PropU86on. 
Starting ll8lill'y $19,500 rapdly lncnalng 10 $28,000. Must be 
U.S. Cdi:zen under 29 ~ of 8Qe. 30 daY'J paid Yaaltion 
_ ..,.'"".., MCh yeer. Free medk:el and derDI pac:Uge. Depen­benefils ..., pnMded. 
Department of the ...vy 575 N. Pefii'laytvant. Street Office 848 OPO 
lnd..,.po118, IN 48204 317-269-8183 or 1-800-382-9404 

Lance cancels lecture 
Pctl'r Lancl', an invl'stigativc cor· rc~pondcnt with the ABC scrie~ "20· 20," will not spl'ak tonight in Saint Mary's C;trroll Hall. lit· is res· chedukd for Fcb. 17 at H p.m. 
I lc was forced to caned his ap· pcarant·c due to his work on a ".20·20" feature on l(mnaldchydt:. The chemical ha' been bonded with another chemical. ruca, for usc in spray ttJam insulation for homes, partidc·board t(Jr mobile homes and other homes as well, but the mixture ~omctirncs "brl'aks down and that's what causes thc trouble," Lance ex· plaint·d. The story will air Ft·b. 4. 
:vtcycrs gave a brief description of change and marijuana. 
ASSOCIATE WITH US

SENIORS 
The HCAs is a 1-2 year postgraduate experience stressing: 
• Service to others eSimple living e Communal IWestyle .Christian exploration 
Placements available in the United States; Santiago, Chile; and Nairobi, Kenya. 


___sH0 wc~~~iiiiisiliiiiiEiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii_.iiiiiiiiiiiiwiiiiiediiniiiesdiiiayiii,Jiiianiiiuaiiiryiii27iii,Iiii98iii2iiiiipaiigeii6 
Keenan Revue takes stage Friday 
humor, we hop<: some significant 

will be held at H:OO p.m. on the social life at Notre Dame," a dis­comments are made, both positively and negatively critical, about life at 
T
he sixth annual Keenan Revue dents were"discussing and dt:bating 
Friday, January 29 and Saturday, cussion "which was stimulated by Notre Dame and Saint Mary's." 
abuses." As a result, "two Keenan However, the show is not just satiri­cal, and the nature of the individual
Hall RA's decided to put together a
Ray Wise 
acts depend ''upon the talent ofany

stage revue." particular year." Fr. Conyers also
The Revue, according to
Preview Producer Hans Ho~::rdemann, has added that the Revu<: "ought to demonstat~:: ...that we can do an aw­
become "a medium to showcase the members of the Notre Dame/Saint ful lot to chang~: the stereotypt:d at­
particular talents that come throughMary's community will attend the titude that the social life leav~::s a lot
in a hall, incul_cat<: unity, and m~::et performance during its two night to be desired. All it takes is creativity
more people." He also praised the run at ()'Laughlin auditorium on the and oganization. Certainly an
R~::vue as "the first activity that reallySaint Mary's campus. amazing amount of talent is
has the possibility for everyone to The Revue is being directed by available."
get involved." Hans Hoerdemann and produced by Tickets for tht: Kt:enan R~::vue art:
Although the Revue is a unifyingDave Magana. Director Hoer­available to mt:mbers of the Notre
experience for the r~::sidents of demann stated that the Revue will Dam~::/Saint Mary's community at no
Keenan, Hoerdemann stressed the contain its "traditional mix ofparity, charge since Keenan Hall absorbs all
importance of the artistic aspects of satire. music, and drama," while costs associated with the produc­
the show. "The administrative and aiming to produce "a better Revue tion of the Revue. However, tickets
production people must have than last year." Hoerdemann also will be available only at the Wash­
th~::ater ~::xperience and a hinted at "new technical additions ington Hall and O'Laughlin
perspective as to what will be good to the Revue that will be put into ac­and entertaining." He also men-i auditorium box offices this evening tion." between 6:00 and 7:00p.m.
tioned the emphasis placed on Fr. Richard Conyers, Rector of Over thirty acts, including a
staging, since the entire show is Keenan Hall, explained some of the cameo appearance by a popular
planned "down to the last half­rules that govern the programming Notre Dame figurt:, will appear in
minute." Despite this intricate plan­ofthe R~::vue. Performers may not the 'Iron Anniversary' edition ofthe
ning, the show is still "on~: of those "crib anything directly," while it is Keenan Revu~::. The Revue, which
things that amazingly comes togeth­hoped that "skits are in signitlcant Dr. Emil T. Hofman has referred to as
er five minutes before 8:00 on tast<: for a general audience and at­"the best entertainment moment of
Friday," in that "everything you tempt not to be cruel in their the year," will be held Friday and
build for helps...although it is hard to criticism." Saturday nights at 8:00p.m. in the
pinpoint specific things."According to Fr. Conyers, the O'Laughlin auditorium ofSaint
Fr. Conyers, referring to tht: satire Keenan R~::vue began when hall resi-Mary's College. 
in tht> review, stated that "through 
Mewes celebrates 25 years as Holy Cross Brother 
0 
njanuary 26, 1957, I took first The required wearing of the habit usually feel that my answer is insuffi­same, to follow Christ more perfect­..., B."'-in e'lncati,;;-. -•.-;th a major in 
vows to be a Brother of Holy became optional over the years. cient. tAn easy, flip answer says that ly, to follow Him wherever and social studies, especially history. That summer (I 960) l started on my
Cross. At that time it seemed a long Today, v~::ry few brothers wear the he is a male Sister of male Nun. A whenever He calls you. This gives way off before I would ever arrive at religious habit. Although one is to at­more detailed answer describes him one more frt:edom to serve and love masters in theology and made my final vows and in the fall I began my
such a major milestone as a silver tend Mass daily, most other prayers as a layman who joins a religious or­others and the Church. teaching carrer at Catholic Central
jubilee. Looking back over the same have becom<: optional. Twenty five der and takes the vows ofpoverty, Even the reasons for my being a High School in Monroe, :vtichigan.
25 years. they seem to have passed years ago, a man recieved notice of chastity and obedience. brother hav<: changed. Twenty five 

change in job or living quarters by Poverty used to be explained as years ago I joined "to sav~:: my soul" This is my 4th checking a bulletin board. Today, he giving up ownership of things, or at and to follow God's call. Following year as the executive secretary of makes his own arrangements, sub­least the use of things wthout per­the call means the same today, but it the Social justice Commission ofthe
Bro. Bill Mewes ject to the approval of the major su­mission. Now the emphasis is mort: is more likely to bt: put in tt:rms of Brothers of HOly Cross, :vtidwest pt:rior, the provincial. on having things in common. Chas­following God's will as derived Province. For the first 3 years, my The world has changed during tity us~::d to be viewed more in terms through discernment. office was at theJustice and PeacePersonal glimpse this time also. Airplane travel has ofgiving up all sex, perhaps even On the day, 25 years ago, when I Center in South Bend and I was on 
become commonplace; man has one's own sexuality, but now, is of­made my first vows, I got cold feet the staff there. The office is now rather quickly. Ot course, some of landed on the moon. Nevertheless, ten called the vow ofcelibacy, or not and went to see the novice master. located a the Brothers' Center those years went much slower than he is still bogged down with sin, getting married. One obeyed God When I told him my concerns I was across the highway from ND to SMC. 
.. 
others, some were rather painful, crime, and war. He even plans for through the superior. and God's will told to get out of his offict: and to This job has been my best ever. and others were filled with joy and the destruction of his own world was whatever the superior told you, take those vows. After that, I had no Coming back to Notre Dame. I ' happiness. The painful years were through a nuclear holocaust. In as long as it wasn't sinful. Today this trouble taking vows the next 2 years, found many more student activities 
vow is s~::en but when I cam<: to tina! or per­
mainly due to my own inadequacies some ways he has mad<: progress, in as obedience to God here than when I left in 1965. I have and self-inflictt:d problems. As these other ways he seems to have though discernm~::nt ofHis will. This petual vows good for life, that was enjoyed getting to know many ofthe were solved or somehow dissolved, regressed. is much harder and requires much another matter. I thought cold feet student groups such as the World life became better and better. "What is a Brother?" This question more work and prayer. at first vows must hav~:: been what Hunger Coalition, Right To Life, The life ofa Brother has changed. comes up again and again, and I The purpos~:: of vows remains the some experience at marriage, but FLOC, Pax Christi and especialythen final vows seemed closer since 
CILA. I have also been blessed bythey were for life. This time I went to 
participation in the charismatic see my new superior about my 
prayer group in the Log Chapel and anxieties and was told pretty 
have enjoyed the other benefits of muchhh the same thing as before. 
ccampus life. especially the enter­Perpetual vows seemed to take 
tainment, including sports. The state more faith, hope and trust in God. 
park-like setting is also an advantage.After final vows I had no questions 
As I look back. I especialy want to about the life ofa Brother for ap­
thank God for His many blssings and proximately l 0 years, since I've 
for His great love. I also want to seriously questioned the vocation. 
thank my Dad who taught me so "Why am I leading this life and 
much about God's love through his deeping these vows?" Each time the 
own love for me. answer was the same: I am a Brother. 
My call has led me to Holy Cross and chose to remain a Brother, be­
and through this call. I have received caus~:: this is the best way oflife that I 
may blessings. It is in Holy Cross that can love God. myself, and my neigh­
I intend to stay. till death 'do us part, bor. l cannot say this about anyone 
so help me God. else, but t(>r me, this is the best way. The call to be a Brother is a very per­sonal call. as is any vocational call, but this one is for mt:. 
Buy

In I95'; l entered the Brothers of Holy Cross at Watertown. Wiscon­sin. Three months later l went to the novitiate (now Le Mans Academy) at 
Observer 

Roling Prairie, Indiana, where a year later I took my first vows and official­ly became a Brother of Holy Cross. The same day I moved to Dujarie 
classifieds

Hall (now Carroll Hall), Notre Dame, and soon entered the Univer­sity. In 3 and a halfyears I received 



···········································~ 
The Tri-weekly Features Section 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!!!!!!!!~~~~~~~~iiii.i~ieidinie~sidia~y,January27, 
1982-page7 
Was football game really that 'Super?' 
A
fter the contest had ended and the dust had clcarl·d on Sunday cvcntng, the scoreboard delivered thl· tina! verdict: San Fran­cisco 26, Cincinnati 21. 
Ten of.us were crowded into a small, single room wa!l'hing the game as Super Bowl Commentator Pat Summerall reported that the attendance at the game exceeded the Silvcrdomc's seating capacity. Later, when Joe Montana was hcing interviewed in the victorious 49crs' locker room, most of the remaining lV viewers were San Francisco fans. Only two Bengal supporters were left, one of them the inhabitant ofthe room and the owner of the television. The dis­appl~inted. Cincinnati fans were tlnding much to "Complain about, startmg wnh the turnovers that led to thl.· Bcngals' downtall. 
"Darn Cincinnati." they'd say. "Always managing to screw up somehow. You'd think that a team that led the leagul· in fewest tur­
:::~~(~~~:~~1I1Idi~~~::~~::~!ll>ld Mll&tE8118\.am: 
Bowl." 
M R • 

Strange how there's always arc amIrvI something to complain about. Like Rosanne Rosanna<.lanna ---------------
Chartstoppers return to scene 
used to say, it's always some­thing; ifit's not one thing, it's another. Either the Bcngals had too many turnovers or their hdml·ts
Mike "Commander" Chapman, who

T
wo Vl.·ry hot acts about three departure from its six "number one" 
arc too ugly.
made the Knack what they were, to

years ago ( I 979 ) wcrl.· the Bee predecessors that it is hard to But if you want to get nit-picky ahout it, mayhc there was a lot to
_lack Douglas, who made Acrosmith

(;cl.·s ami the Knack. The Gihb believe it is the same group that did complain about in that Super Bowl. 
hrothas were rcsponshk for the such disco classics as "Stayin' Alivl"' what they were (and helped john Take the quarterbacks, for instance. Sure, they had good games,
Lennon come back, too). As a result,


and "Night fcn·r." It is somewhat 
but look at Ken Anderson. He didn't even go to Notre Dame. Wasn't
the sound becomes different.

harder-edged and more difficult to he supposed to be the top-rated passer in the NFL? The pass he com­
There are some very strange

listen to than the late-70s disco, a pleted to a San Francisco defensive back certainly didn't evidence
things on this album, more than just

htct shown in it~ n·ry low chart pc.:ak
Tim ttvvly 
that. And what about Joe Montana? Doesn't he look like Barry 
"the strangest piano in the world," as

( ti>r thl· Bee Gees), number .~I. It ~ani.lo:"·? As I watched him in the post-game celebration, I thought
the accompaniment is described on

seems to he an intentional I d d1e 1f he suddenly broke out singing '"Looks Like We Made lt." 
Music one track. None of the strange
departure, as if they arc saying, "!Icy, things, like "Art War" and "Africa,"
there's more to us than disco or sap­

py strings." The song certainly 
work very well, but at least they try, succeeds in that light. 
and for that some congratulations longest string ofconsecutive num­
are in order. bl.·r one hits in chart history (six), 
The title song, released as the 

The 11rst single from this record, thanks to a heavy <.lisco bl.·at and high 
second singk, did not even crack 
like the tlrst single ofthe Bee Gees' lalsctto vocals. Riding on the crest of 
the top 40, and I am trying to 11gurc 
LP, is a fairly radical departure from another 1979 fad, new wan· music, 
out why. Part ofthe problem may he 
the "norm" of the band. "Pay the the Knack was heavily promoted as 
that the sound is somewhat different 
Devil" is a slow song, and comes off "the new Bcatles." They had a 
from the Bee Gees songs of the 
well considering the slowest thing "number one" 4S and a "number 
recent past. It is the same:: problem 
the Knack had ever done before was one" I.P thanks to great nd had a 
(if one wants to call it that) that 
a "Beast of Burden" soundalike from numha one 4S and number one I.P 
Fleetwood Mac encountered with 
their second album called "Can't Put thanks to that promotion, a lack of 
their 1979 Tusk I.P: because it was 
a Price on Love." And the lyrics, compl·tition on the charts, and sug­
so diffl-rent, it was not immediately 
successful. while not as racy as prior Knack suc­gestive lyrics. 
cesses, still have their things to say good songs in a splendid collection: 
There arc two other extremely 
about women. In another of the bet­

Both disappeared for a whik ­"Crying En-ry Day," a Robin Gihh 
ter songs on the Ll', "Boys Go

the lkl· c;ccs mired in lawsuits with vocal which. if the background syn­
Crazy," the catchall line is "Boys Go

RSO Rl'l'Oflls and OCl'Upied with thesizer were taken away, would tit 
Crazy when the girls say 'NO'."

various solo project~ ( like Barry in very nicely with thl-classic Ike To sum up these two releases, the
(;ibb's work with Barbra Streisand), (;ccs period of 1967-69, a period lyrics from "We Arc Waiting," a song
and the Knack mifl•d in a second LP which the hrothl'f~ have tended to from Round Trip, perhaps sums up
which sounded like the 11rst one· ignore in recent albums; and "Be 
the fcdings of both hands:

pla}'l'd sideways (a not-uncommon \\'hat You Arc," a Barry Gibh com­Oh u•e are u•aiting to sho/1'
OlTurrcncl· -rcml·mhn Boston). position which could have been a 
You a different viell'...

But now both arc hack with new al­ldiover from the Barbara Streisand Please let us into }'our home
bums alia ll'ngthy absences, both 
It's the least you (:an do...

sessions and is \cry beautiful. had. As a rc~ult, Lir•ing t)•es hy thl· The Knack ha vc also learned a few We'II book you team name? When will Cincinnati get real helmets? Tht· sight of the having lost the momentum each Or take each team as a whole. Whl-n will San Francisco get a real 
lf'e'/1 bauntyou

lessons from their experience as a Knack have been almost ignored. pop phenomenon. Round Trip We're tl'illing ever seen since my cat mistook one of n~y high school term papers But both art· bl·ttcr-than-avcragc LPs for his Iitte,rhox. There was only one team this season that heat both Ike (;l'l'~ and Round Trip by the helmets of the Bengals and the 49crs was the worst color dash I'd 
comes off as something more than a We're u•aiting. In the case of both the Bee Gees'
third rehash of" .\ly Sharona." In fact, one is hard presst·d to tind too much 
and arc well worth a listen. ofthese t~:ams, and that was Cleveland. Can you believe thl· two hcst 
Living Eyes and the Knack'sRowu/ 

teams in the NfL both lost to Cleveland? And all those penalties!Soml· time ago in an interview, the that sounds identical to the "old" Trip, not as many people as in the 
Don't these two teams know how to play fair? 
(;ihbs swore they would never again Knack. This b thanks to a large con­past have taken that advice. But hoth 
Speaking of penalties, how about those officials? Some of them do a disco record, and in Living t)es arc listenable and very good while
tingent ofguest stars and unusual in­look~:d old enough to retire, and they always get in the way. They al­
taking a ft:w chances along the way.

they keep thcir word. In fact, they struments (how often do you h~:ar a w~ys seem to make the worst calls against your team. Didn't the head takl' a kw chances. The 11rst single sitar in today's music, for example?), It would be only right ifthey did not official have a Cincinnati accent? And that line judge! I'll bet hc.:'s 
from thl· I.P, "lie's a Liar," is such a and a changl· in producers from have to wait any longer. 
frt>m San francisco. I could have sworn I saw him throw a pink !lag 
instead ofa yellow one. 
Where did CBS get the ridiculous notion that all of Aml'fica wanted to sec balding Terry Bradshaw and boy scout Roger Staubach at halftime? Where wasJayne Kennedy? John Madden isn't
Trivia Quiz XIII 
nearly as nice looking as she is. Neither is Phyllis George. Coverage could have hcen much better. I felt like I would he sick if I saw just one more Suharu commercial. 
Now on to this week's 4uiz. I Jere arc a few lists ofitems,

I 
guc~s there an-sonw pn>pk who kno\\· their Hro.ld· Then there's the fans. Rainhow-hairl·d, painted like the lkngals groups. etc. \\'hat do the dements ofeach have in com­
way out tlwrc. hl'GlUSl' st·n-ral pcopk remarked on helmets, half-drunk and screaming at the tops of their lungs. Arl.· the rdativt; caM· with which they answered last wed,,', mon? these the characteristics ofintelligent fans? Is this the type ofSunday 
I. Bill llaky and His Comets, The Bee Gees, Darvl 

afternoon football game that you would take your (:hil<.lren to? I!all and John Oates (hint: it has something to do V:·ith 
What about the coaches, and tlw watcrboys, and the city the game
Tim "vvly 
the Billboard charts) 

was played in~ How about those cheerleaders, and Archie Griffin's 
2. "Fire," "The fever," "If! Were the Priest"

quiz. For those who did not fed the same, here arc till' fumble, and the media? 
). The Archil's, The Cuff Links, Barry Manilow 

answer~. thl· song followed hy the play: What about us fans watching the game? Aren't we too fat, or too 
4. "Could It Be Magic" by Barry Manilow, "Night" by

I. "Standing on the Corner" -"The Most 1-fappy Fl'l· skinny~ Do we study as much as we should? Do we go out ofour way Jackie Wilson, "Nut Rocker" by B. Bumble and the Stin­
to help others when we ought to? Don't we complain a little bit too gers 
Ia" 
2. "People" -"Funny Girl" much~ 
S. Mark Farner, Don Brewer, Mel Schachter

). "Send In the Clowns" -"A Little Night Music" As I write this, I have just returned from Notre Dame's dramatic 
6. John Lennon, George Harrison, Ringo Starr, Billy Preston, Klaw. Voormann 

4. "(iood Morning Starshinc" -"Hair" overtime win over Idaho. And guess what? No one is complaining. 
S. "Day hy Day" -"Godspell" But, when things aren't going well, it is usually easier to criticize 
7. The Radiants, Kansas, Triumph, Ian Gomm

6. "On the Street Where You Live" -"My Fair Lady" mistakes than to praise accomplishments. Ifthis philosophy is 
8. The Righteous Brothers, The Cochran Brothers,

7. 
"Mack the Knife" -"The Threepenny Opera" applied to things such as the Super Bowl it is probably harmless. hut Th~ Walker Brothers _

8. 
"Corner of the Sky" -"Pippin" ifit becomesa part ofour nature, then it's time to wonder about our­

9. "I've lost at love before," "What goes up must come


9. 
"Tonight" -"West Side Story" selves and the way we live. Perhaps we should start devoting more down," ''I'm not scared ofdying and I don't really care"

10. 
"I'll Never Fall in Love Again"-"Promises, attention to all of the extra points in our lives and in ourselves in-I 0. Freshmen, Tunes, Jacks, Ac~:s


Promises" stead ofdwellin our ugly helmets. ' 


~j7()fitS:L:J:,..=:i=e~~~S========~===================w==ed=n=es=d=~=,J=a=nu=a=ry=2=7=,I=9=82===p=ag=e=s 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
Notre Datne's ticket office asks that students 
who own an "A" package of basketball tickets but do not plan to attend tonight's game against Maine, please give their coupon to their hall ticket office representative or turn them in at the ticket office by 3 p.m. today. These tickets will be used by the special stu­dents at Logan Center. In other ticket office news, tickets are available for the March 7 Notre Dame basketball game against Michi­gan at the Pontiac Silverdome. Tickets are priced at S4, S6 and $8, and are available at the second floor box office of the ACC. Tickets also are available for the basketball game against Seton Hall to be played at the Brendan Byrne Arena in the Meadowlands, NewJersey, on Feb. 18. Finally, students are reminded that they are entitled to a $1 discount on Notre Dame hockey tickets. Tickets regularly priced at S4and SSareonly $3and S4withaNotreDameorSaintMary'slD. 
-The Observer 

Former world driving chatnpion and In­
dianapolis 500 winner Mario Andretti will race the entire 1982 Indy­car season for STP corp., the company announced yesterday. Andretti, who split his 1981 season between Indy-car races and Forumula I, will drive a new STP-Patrick Wildcat. He will rejoin teammate Gordon Johncock, another former Indy 500 winner, giving STP what company presidentJohn T. Boone called "the most competitive team in all ofracing." "By devoting all our efforts to our Indy-car program instead of splitting commitments like we did last 
season, I'm sure we'll be extremely competitive," said Andretti. The 15-race schedule for Indy-type cars begins March 28 with the Kraco ISO at Phoenix. -AP. 
The Fellowship of Christian Athletes have postponed tonight's meeting because of the basketball game. The meeting is rescheduled for next Wednesday, Feb. 3, in the Howard Hall social space at 9:00p.m. -The Observer · 
The Irish women's swimming team 
hosts the team from Valparaiso tonight at 7 p.m. at the Rockne Memorial Pool. The women will be out to snap a two-meet losing streak, the second defeat coming this past Saturday at Illinois State. Despite the loss to the Redbirds, the 200-yard medley relay team of Lee Ann Nrislawn, Teri Schindler, Kathy Latino and Jean Murtagh qualified for national competition with their time of 1:53.44. The women's record stands at 2-2. -The Observer. 
By MIKE HARRIS 
Associated Press 

Television is blamed for nearly 
destroying the sport ofboxing in the 
1950s. 

The tube has been accused at one 
time or another of overkilling golf, 
baseball and football. 

Hockey is a sport that various 
critics say does not lend itself to 
being on television. 

Auto racing always has been a vast wasteland for the TV networks, ex­cept for the random Indianapolis 500, Daytona 500 or drag race. 
The time has come, however, when the television industry, like a shy suitor, is making a nervous ap­proach to auto racing. The speed sport appears ready to open its arms wide to the lenses. 
In 1982, the Indy and Daytona SOOs again will be broadcast by ABC and CBS, respectively, with the all the hype that goes with the telecast­ing of major sports ·events in the :United States. But that's not news. 
What is news is the fact that vir­
tually every race run by Champion­
ship Auto Racing Teams, the major 
sanctioning body of Indy-type 
racing, will be televised, as will near­
ly halfof the 30-race NASCAR grand 
National stock car schedule. 

Beyond that, many ofthose broad­
casts will be live. 

NBC, which jumped into auto 
racing with a big thump in 1981 by 
becoming the first network ever to 
broadcast a 500-mile Indy car race 
live start-to-finish, again will show 
Tuned out 

Televisiongives sports static 
the Norton Michigan 500 in July, as well as the Las Vegas Grand Prix For­mula One race in September. That network also reportedly is negotiat­ing for several other CART races. 
ESPN, the Entertainment and Sports Programming Network, also is a latecomer to the auto racing wars, but has seriously escalated its involvement for 1982. 
The cable network announced recently that it will broadcast at least seven NASCAR races live, including several at the less-glamorous short tracks, where the cars are slower and the cash payoff smaller for the competitors, but the fender-banging action often is the best. 
Atlanta sports entrepeneur Ted Turner is getting into the act now with a new show on his cable Super­station WTBS and its affiliated cable stations. 
Starting this Saturday at 5:35p.m., host Dave DeSpain and a te t am of field. reporters will offer both motorsports enthusiasts and casual racing fans a 30-minute television magazine, tentatively called "Motorweek," that will include livt> and taped reports from racing venues around the world. 
The first show will feature the an­nouncement of the 1981 Auto Racing All-American team and its Driver of the Year, chosen by the Auto Racing Writers and Broadcas­ters Association, as well as a tape feature on last weekend's South African Grand Prix and a live report on the Daytona 24-hour Pepsi Chal­lenge sports car race, which will be in progress. 
DeSpain also is a color analyst for CBS and on the syndicated radio productions of Motor Racing Net­work. Among the regular con­tributors to the show will be former Grand National champion Ned Jar­rett, also a member of the CBS-TV and MRN racing crews; Steve Evans, an NBC-TV drag racing commen­tator and co-host of the syndicated TV show "Car Care Central," and Larry Nuber, a regular commentator on ESPN's auto racing broadcasts. 
The show, which will be available to I96 cable systems reaching more than 20 million homes in the United States, is the result of the creativity and efforts of executive producers Ken Squier and Fred Rheinstein. 
The indications are that the 1980s will see auto racing's presence on the small screen grow and blossom. 
• • .Win 
continuedfrom page 12 
Last Saturday, the Insh won the team championship at the Chris Taylor Memorial Tournament at Southwestern Michigan. Curt Rood, a 134-t pounder, placed first and was voted most outstanding wrestler. Joe Andreetti and Brian Erard also claimed individual crowns. Joe Agostino and Shawn Moloney placed second. This weekend, the Irish hit the road to participate in the National Catholic Tournament. 

Classifieds  The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However, classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day pnor to insertion. All classtfieds must be prepaid. etther in person or through the mat I.  
NEED LOTS OF MARQUETTE TIX x8291\LOST/FOUND I I WANTED I need about 5 Marquette tickets! ( Stu­Found: Blue and green scarf. Dtscovered dent or G.A.) Please call Maureen at at Bendix Woods t /14/82. Call John at Need 2 GAs for North Carolina State. 8082. t 764 to 1dent1fy. CALL 8738 I need 4 t1ckets for Marquette game stu­LOST: SILVER AMETRON WATCH Need nde to ISU NORMAL ILL. any dent or GA call Done SMC 5824 SOMEWHERE NEAR MENS LOCKER weekend. Call Bob 1051 ROOM AT THE ROCK. ANYONE Need G.A. or student Marquette tixl Call HAVING ANY INFORMATION OF THE Need nde to Cleveland. 0. Fri.. Jan. 29. Greg. 1082. WHEREABOUTS OF THIS WATCH CAN Can leave anytime. Call John. 3770. CONTACT ME AT x3113. ASK FOR NEED: Marquette tix; Vince x1238 BOB. Babysitter Wanted: occas1onal weekend mghts. Call Pat. 288-0473. NEED MARQUETTE TIX. STUD OR GA. FOUND; One calculator in the library CALL LARRY AT 277-3306. Thurs. night. Call Dan at 3378 to Identify. NEED FEMALE ROOMMATE FOR CAMPUS VIEW. FALL SEMESTER. Need many MU t1x ED at 1068 FOUND; FOREIGN COIN ON ROAD BE· NEED IMMEDIATE REPLY X45t5. HIND FIREHOUSE. CALL 4635 TO Need student ticket for Marquette. Call IDENTIFY 2 RIDERS NEEDED TO MARDI GRAS. Chris at 3574. Pay1ng b1g Omaha bucks. Feb t 8-23. Call Bnan 8928. LOST-Rockwell calculator in north dining Need MARQUETTE TIX (Stud orGA) hall over weekend no questtons asked. RIDERS NEEDED to Clev.. Pitts.. West Please call Susan at 8027 call Bert at 6863. PA. area. for Feb. t2-t4. Call2843 I desperately need San Fransc1sco G.A. ·s FOUND: SET OF SIX KEYS. 241"'. Need nder to John Carroll University 1n call Dan t 171. OUTSIDE CAVANAUGH. CALL TOM AT Cleveland lor THIS Weekend. Jan. 29. 1470. Call John at 3527 · Wanted: 2 G.A."s for NORTH CAROLINA ST on 2·13. CALL TOM at 1470. LOST: NO Key Chain and Key. If found Need nde to St. LoUis thiS weekend. w1ll Call2843. share usual. T J. x3369 LOST TEXAS INSTRUMENT CAL· CULATOR. LOST BEFORE CHRISTMAS BREAK IN NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL. PLEASE CALL 287­2405 IF YOU KNOW ITS WHEREABOUTS. THANK YOU FOR SALE Two studded snow t1res. Will hey Cf ··cheer up before dinner (or else i"ll LOST: ONE PEARL NECKLACE. lost be­fit most compact cars. $25.00 each. For tell you a toke) tween the Huddle and the library-af found more anfo call Andy at x8448 please call 284-4981 (necklace has deep NIGHTSOUNDS 1 05 FM 10 30 PM sentimental value) Reward. Thank you. O"Sullian stereo cab1net and p1oneer TS­695 car speakers. reasonable pnce call He came from the East. 1n search of a bar Lost: Key ring with five keys. Lost 1n Jam1e 277-2046 w1th a jukebox that plays favontes such as library or La Fortune. Please call 8932. New York. New York. and Unforgettable:· and Lazy. Hazy. Crazy Days. And when he got to South Bend. he stopped. He had dascovered Alberts. bad basketball. and supenor sports~FO_R_R_EN_T~/ ~~__TIC_K_E_TS~ wntang. LaGROTTA RETURNS! NEED MARQUETTE TIX ·STUDENT OR DAN KEUSAL AND FRIENDS • FEB. 5 t BEDROOM EFFICIENCY FOR RENT: GA. KATIE 8001 AT THE NAZZ DONT MISS THIS ONE! FURNISHED. WITH UTILITIES. PARKING. YARD LIGHTS. OFF HELP! I NEED MARQUETTE BASKET· MUSICIANS Looking for a drum­PORTAGE·-612 N. CUSHING. MAKE BALL TICKETS. CALL STEVE AT 8729 mer.vocalist and keyboard player to help OFFER. REFERENCES. NO LEASE. form a rock band for 2nd semester. In· 289-1687 need MEGA Marquette T1x . Call Dick at terested? Call DeMar 341 0 or Ke1th 3507 277-6065 ·STUDENT RENTALS; 2 SIX BEDROOM HIDDEN HEARTSI Feb 12 Zahm. Ask a HOUSES NEXT DOOR TO EACH Zahmb1el OTHER. FUllY CARPETED. Attention. PLEASE! FIREPLACE AND LOFT. CALL 272· The QUAD needs Marquette tickets who wants to talk to a zahmbte 1n the f1rst 7767. 232-4057. 272-2720. Please call x6661 place??THANKS! 2 ROOMS. PRIVATE SHOWER AND 1th1nk they call1t a fuh-burger ENTRANCE. 288·0955 .~:.. FURNISHED HOMES CLOSE TO NO POUt;E hx 4-sale. Chacago Feb 1. 233· SOCIAL CONCERNS FILM SERIES··FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 277-3604 6068 DOCUMENTARIES 7:30p.m. Excuse Me Amenca 9.30 p.m H1rosh1ma D1scusstonFURNISHED HOME AVAILABLE NOW. Desperately need 2 GA s for MAR· followang each film January 28··277-3604 QUETTE! Parents arnv1ng soon. Please Call AI. 1384 . LaFortune Ballroom FREE AdmiSSIOn  HAPPY B-DAY KATH MARNOCHA­Giad Hehy Bag·· -Here·s to punching W.W.J. ba nanas. play1ng drums on lampshades. Pente. 1mprovs. sanging off key.la te mght chats. WHY Kath?"" pop­corn.butter?. dietmg,trymg to swear me off guys. JACKS !rom Southern states. truth or dare. tap danc1ng on the wall.your fav PR"S.groover SYR dates.dnbbling b· balls at 2AM.runmn g water. do me a favor and talk to.. :·. did yo<> see..?""uh­huh.okayl. I SWEAR I hate him.""· Thanx for betng such an HB of a room1e.l think you' re a tons sweetie so HB-and that doesn't mean HOSEBAGITons of love­LIS ANYONE INTERESTED IN JOINING A CLUB TO HELP RAISE MONEY FOR MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY PLEASE CALL x8321 BY 1128/82. WANTED MARQUETTE TIX CALL MOLLY 8034 GIRL SCOUT COOKIE SALE D1n1ng halls (F-Iine) or 439 Farley. t /27-2/2. $1.75 a box. Crime will pay for tickets to Pollee con­cert 1n Chicago. Desperately needed! Call Pengu1n at 284-5737 or Catwoman at 284·4108. ATTENTION ALL MACOR FOR UMOC SUPPORTERS: I realize that my God· g•ven features are such that I can not w1n the UMOC contest. I hereby res1gn from that compet1t1on. I also asK that all my loyal supporters cast their unend1ng sup­port to MIKE GURDAK. undoubtedly the ugl1est th1ng on the face of th1s year All goldfish cnnge at the saght of h1m. s1nce they realize that he IS the biggest threat to the1r existence. next to The Plague. SOCIAL CONCERNS FILM SERIES··· January 26-February5 QUANTA SOCIAL CONCERNS FILM SERIES The King of Hearts January 26 and 27 Eng1neerang Aud1tonum 7 and 9:30p.m. FREE admiSSIOn The K1ng of Hearts Enganeerang Aud1tonum 7 and 9.30 p.m FREE Admas­SIOn Soc1al Concerns F1lm Senes TRUE CONFESSIONS January 28 and 29 Eng1neenng Aud1toraum 7.9. and t 1 p.m. $1.00 admass1on Socaal Concerns F1lm Senes Co-sponsored by Student Unton SOCIAL CONCERNS FILM SERIES··· DOCUMENTARIES d1scuss1on follow1ng each f1lm Excuse Me Amenca--7 30 p.m D1scusston wtth Dean K Wetgert Htroshlma--9:30 p.m Dtscuss1on with Prof. John Roes January 28--LaFortune Ballroom FREE admiSSIOn  Anorexia (self-starvation) and Bulimia Sell-centered-gnostic needs: (bmge eatmg/purgmg) are senous disor­Marquette basketball tickets. Student or ders ... Difficult to adm1t and difficult to G.A. Call Jim 8630. change. But help IS available. Contact Dr.Dan Rybicki or Dr.Sue Steibe at 239­Com1ng to Notre Dame·s campus this 7336 for 1nformat1on about the open weekend, T.J. Product1ons presents meeting to select times tor the RASPUTIN a rockin" good t1me! PROBLEMS IN EATING Group. meet1ng this week at 7prn Thurs.. 3rd.floor. Stu· dent Health Center. Psychological Cavanaugh Humpsters. If you doubt Far­Serv1ces. ley. come carouse at the San Francisco VICtory bash hump n1ght! FHC Who's from Long Island and has a wrestler's bod? John Bagnasco IS this FHC • gel a clue before 1 get SICk ! debonair god. Today is his birthday. so g1ve him a call. H1s number's 1594. Grace Helpl!!! My parents desperately need IS has hall. Flonda Sneak·· TWO Marquette G. A.'s. My academ1c future 1s on the line. Please call Tom at a5get some real couplets 3176. Happy Day John! -Kandi· PK.IS THIS A DELAYED REACTION CONGA T ATULIONS BILL SLATTERY ON FROM LIVING WITH MUP & GS? WILL YOUR VASECTOMY BILL WILL DO YOU EVER COME BACK? THE w·s ANYTHING FOR A DATE! HAVE AT HIM GIRLS. FOR THE SOUR BALLS. THE ooooo that was cold OYNAMINTS. THE NESTLE CRUNCH. THE CHOCOLATE KISSES. AND THE DO IT ON A WINDSURFER. PIZZA: THIS IS JOHN FROM 622 SAYING. THIS BUD'S FOR YOU!!!"" del • cazh -adj.· short for casual. As 1n THANKS SECRET SIS thars cazh · CRYSTAL ROCKS CRYSTAL ROCKS SOCIAL CONCERNS SEMINAR"" 1n CRYSTAL ROCKS Th1s Fnday at Wash1ngton.DC Sprang Break-· LaFortune·s Chatauqua 9-t. PARTY!! application extended to Fn. Feb. 29. Mar· c1a LeMay. CEL. t 1 tO Mem. L1b. 239-53t9 CLINT EASTWOOD STARS IN THUN­DERBOLT AND LIGHTFOOT THIS Sem. What IS the defan1110n of seeang? TUESDAY AND WEDNESDAY AT THE Your move. Squeeze P S. Lose your KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS BUILDING gloves. 7.9.11 ATTENTION-ATTENTION Just for the CLINT EASTWOOD STARS IN THUN· general publlc·s tnformatton. I think Diane DERBOLT AND LIGHTFOOT THIS DeMasi 1s an f1ne example of the so­TUES AND WED. AT 7.9. t 1 AT THE called second semester senior. so all of KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS BUILDING you NO guys 1ust watch out. presented as a public service THE SEAWEED OF CRIME BEARS BIT­TER FRUIT The Shad knows ! 1ust kaddang KEENAN: you KNOW you have a hockey Attentaon all NO males w1th NO class team. ALL OTHER turkeys are jUSI coops nngs. MELINDA MOORE on her 19th of jerks wath the morals of the SMC crew birthday IS accepting advanced notice for team and the 1magmations to match. dates an Chacago thas sprang HAPPY People as AWESOME as you shouldn't BIRTHDAY MELli Love. Julie. Meg. A1ta. be abused by a bunch of clueless terks Paula. etc who scared the pucK off the 1ce three 11mes. You II skate them again any day What happened to Mary Torchaa s and you'll beat them JUSt as often, whtch ts roomate? Her furmture IS 1n the room. but only half as ohen as they beat them­no roomte. And what s that human s1zed selves. frozen lump outSide Marys wmdow Thts as a fOb Sherlock Ver Berkmoes LOGAN CENTER VOLUNTEERS. Don t forget th1s Saturday IS SNOW REG! We Just when you thought tt was safe to let are gotng tubtng at Ersktne Country Club. your katty walk down the street THE Meet at Logan al9.00 and we w111 be back PLAGUE returns. Here k1tty. k1tty by 11.30. All volunteers are encouraged to come. Make sure and dress warmly Jeb Cashtn and Stmon should go! We have had enough. Comedy as pretty ·So Aabbtt You ~~Y worktng hands are and thts proves tt Please gtve us a break happy hands. does that mean your paws and get nd of Stmon!!!! are for htre to? -Ryan the Carrot  

L I 
------------------------------------------------------------------------~--~--------~--------------~ 
The Observer-Sports 
. ~.Items 


continuedfrom page 12 
in the second half. Upon coming out of till: lot·kcrroom bdorc the game, Idaho warmed up at the east end of the arena, thus assuring mistakenly that thl'Y would go toward the stu­dent section in the second halfofthe gaml'. 
Since the opposing bend1 is at the 
west end ofthe court. nearer the stu­
dent section. many coaches on their 
first visit to the ACC will chouse to 
play toward the west end in the 
second half, so the coach can be 
closer to his team on offensl·. 
Other teams which have playl·d in 
the ACC bcfore,likc Villanova, UCLA 
and Maryland, would rather go away 
from the students in the second half. 
OAKLAND CHIEFS...or...KANSAS CITY RAIDERS -Now that Joe Montana will be wearing a Super Bowl ring, he is the first Notre Dame quartcrbat·k to guide his team to the NFL title. Dal')·le Lamonica of Oak­lcmd (I won't even explain last week) was the only other Irish alumnus to lead an NFL squad in the 
Super Bowl. Lamonica's Raiders lost 33-14 to Green Bay in Super Bowl II. TWO CAN PI.AY -Many of you haVl' probably read or had a column 
St·nt to you which was written by Bill Granger in the January I 7 Chicago Tribune. The general gist of the article was that Granger took great satisfaction in the fact that Notre Dame is experiencing both losing football and basketball 
seasons. 
To quote Granger: "few moments in lift· arc as satisfying as those that come when the television camera pans a sea of glum faces in a Notre Dame stand. 
...Bears 

continuedfrom page 12 
The Black Bears are unques­
tionably led by 6-10 center Jeff 
Cross, the talkst player in the 
school's history. Still a freshman. 
Cross is learning how to play the ag­
grt·ssive style of play that is 
demanded of him in major college 
hall. I k rises to the occasion as well, 
as wa~ l'Vidcncell by his perfor­
mance against Terry Cummings and 
lkl'aul, when Cross hall the best 
gaml· of his career. 
Anothcr tirst-ycar MaiiH' player is a major contrihutor. Clay Pickering tran~Icrred to the Orono campus af­ter playing at Daytona Community Colll·ge in Florilla. The 6-S h>rwarll otkrs a lot of musck unller the bas­kl·t, and gin·s Cross the hdp he lll'l'd~ on the offensive and defensive 
hoards. The..· two big men have lc:d the team in M:oring in all hut a hand­lui ot game~ thi~ season. 
Thl' other playt·rs to watch in­dude the team captain and only returning ~tarter. (iunn. The 6·6 senior led the ECAC/North in rebounding last season. hauling in ovl'f eight per game. Surpri~ingly, howcvl'r, (;unn·~ grcatl'St asset may he hb passing ability. He's Sl'n>nd on the squad in assists. 
The at ssbt lc<~dcr, as wdl as one of !Ill' team's top scorers, and the an who runs Maine's offense isjdJStur· gcon. The only startt·r who's also a Maine native. the sophomore has takc..·n on much of the leadership responsihility ahandoned t by Carlislt and Godholt. 
For Notre Dame's part, the spectre ofa ktdown hangs over this game. Aftl·r the stirring wins over .\1aryland and Idaho. the lri:.h must maintain the intensity that has allowed them to hrcak out of the slump that plagued them through thl· lirM half of thl· season 
"\\c'vl· got to have students out there to hdp us again tonight," ~ays Phdps. "\X'c can't kt down a little:. \-lainl· is tough, and Wl' know it. But we can't let ourselves become com­placent." 
"If you like sports at all, you have to be heartened to sec so many sports bullies and boors lose out... 
"But Notre Dame students. Whatever else they learn in their four years at South Bend, they never quite grasp the concept of sportsmanship or the obscure ideas of graciousness in victory and dig­nity in defeat, 
"When they win, the students dance about like Hottentots celebrating around a boiling kettle full of human llelicacit:s. And when thy lose, they first cry like..· babies and then demand the death sentence be carried out on the coach. Frankly, I always thought it was punishment enough for a coach to actually haVl' to spend large portions ofhis time in South Bend, but the Notre Dame group is a bloodthirsty lot. 
"The generally thuglike behavior a Notre Dame student learns stays with him through life and reaches full flowering as a Notre Dame alumnus." 
No comment -why stoup? 
Wednesday, january 27, 1982 page 9 
6 ). See Brian Reimer's story on page 12. ( Pboro by Cheryl Ertelt) 

anew 
slantonmath. 
"The Texas Instruments new TI-40 and TI-55-11 calculators have angled displays for easy-to-see-answers:' 
The slanted display makes these calculators easier to tise at arm's length-and that's just the beginning. The economical TI-40, with built-in functions like trig, stat, logs, roots, reciprocals and more, \\ill help you through math and science courses­espt>cially since it comes v-.ith the informative book, Understanding Calculator Math. 
The book explains how to use the TI-40 to work through, and understand, common probkms. 
Ifyou're an advanced math or science major, you'll be 

more interested in the TI-55-II, which 
comes with the Calculator Decision-Making 
Sourcebook. The TI-55-II feature::; ;)6-step prop;rammabilit~·. multiple mem<wies, scientific and statistical operations. con\'PI'sion factors and mueh more-a total of1J2 functions. An (•xtrE>mely powerful eal­eulator. at an excellent p1ice. Both calculators ha\'e LCD displays. long batter~· lif'(• and fit 1ight in your pocket. Tl-40 and TI-55-Il cal<-u­lators.'J\a.·o new slants on math from Texas Instruments. f 1 ... Look for them where\'er "-.t~ calculators are sold. -'\:::._ 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
INCORPORAT£0 


.. 

The Observer-Sports Wednesday,January 27, 1982-page 10 
Team player 
Schueth refuses superstar tag 

By DAVE DZIEDZIC 
Sports Writer 
It was almost a year ago to the day that Notre Dame women's assistant basketball coach Patrick Knapp traveled down to Indianapolis to watch Mary Beth Schueth in action at Perry Meridian High School. 
Knapp liked what he saw. "I told Marv ( DiStanislao, Irish head coach) ., that-we couldn't miss with this kid," Knapp recalls. "She scored 35 points that night. But more importantly, 
she displayed the boundless energy and leadership qualities that we were looking for. I knew we had to have her." 
DiStanislao recalls her first meeting with Schueth (pronounced "Sheeth"). "She walked into our office in October of 1980, inquiring about our program. We had not heard much about her, but we were impressed with her attitude, and her excellent academic record. (She graduated third in her high school class of 532.) We decided to stay in touch." 
DiStanislao and staff did keep in touch with Schueth. After Knapp's 
,. visit to Indianapolis, Schueth was of­fered a Notre Dame basketball scholarship. Schueth signed her let­ter ofintent on Feb. 28, 1981. 
But Schueth says she almost didn't end up under the Golden Dome. 
"I was always somewhat in­terested in Notre Dame because I'm from Indiana," she explains. "I've al­ways heard a lot about Notre Dame's academics and athletics. But I had received a scholarship offer from Miami of Ohio, and I was almost committed to them. But then Coach Knapp came to one of my high school games, and he invited me to visit the campus. When I made my visit, I realized all that Notre Dame had to offer me. It was a tough deci­
"-sion, but I think I made the right one." One reason Schueth's decision may have been tough was the fact that the Notre Dame women's bas­ketball program had not been well­known. In their first year of Division I play last year, the Irish struggled through a l 0-18 season. That was also DiStanislao's first year at the helm, and the first year that Notre Dame offered athletic scholarships to women. "I didn't come here just to play basketball." Schueth says. "The com­bination of academics and athletics here is very important to me. I won't 
be playing basketball the rest of my life. 
"I consider it an honor to be of­fered a scholarship here," she con­tinues. "Coach DiStanislao is a terrific coach and she is esta t blishing an excellent program. I'm glad to be a part of it." 
Shucth is definitely an integral part of the 11-3 Irish. The freshman has started 13 of Notre Dame's 14 contests. She is the team's leading rebounder, averaging 9.2 a contest. Schueth has pulled down 129 boards, 32 more than second­leading rebounder Carrie Bates. Schueth is the team's second-leading scorer, averaging 11.4 points a game. 
Schueth, however, would be valuable to the Irish even without 
''Mary Beth gets the 
key rebounds and makes the key shots''. 
the impressive statistics. "She's very attentive to what we hav t e to tell her," says DiStanislao. "She really wants to learn." 
"Mary Beth is a very smart player," Knapp echoes. "She is very strong fundamentally. She gets the key rebounds and makes the key shots. 
"Mary Beth didn't have All­American tags like some other kids. She just does her job consistently: Best of all, she's always looking to improve. I love working with her." 
Schueth credits her father and family for helping her along athleti­cally. "Dad played basketball in col­lege," she says. "We had a basket in our backyard. We all used to go out in the back and shoot around. My dad and my brothers taught me the fundamentals." 
Even though she has been around basketball for a long time, Schueth had never had great tormal coaching before coming to Notre Dame. I didn't begin playing competitive basketball until eighth grade," she explains. "At that time I was a 5-4 guard. Before my freshman year of high school, I had grown to 5-9. I had difficulty adjusting to the height dif­ference, and I had to learn a lot on my own. 
"In the summer following my freshman year, I went to some bas­ketball camps. But I was never able 

.................... 
The Observer: 
Dedication to excellence 

MORE rfiCKETS available for 
MIKHAIL BARYSHNIKO and 


The American Ballet Theatre 
Friday Evening, February 5. 1982 
(new date added) Bus leaves 6 : 15 PM from Library Circle ; Returns after show Tickets-$26°0-Bus and Performance Available at Student Union Ticket Office 
to dedicate all of my time to basket­
ball. Track. and volleyball took up a 
lot of my time." 
Schueth earned four varsity track 
and basketball letters, and two var­
sity volleyball letters. She accum­
ulated numerous awards, including 
Marion County· High School Athlete 
of the Year in 1981. She was named 
first team all-state, and participated 
in the Indiana-Kentucky all-star 
game. 
Because of her basketball talent, 
Schueth was able to do a lot oftravel­
ing. It was during one of her trips 
that she first met Irish teammate 
Carrie Bates. 
"I was playing in the AAU tourna­
ment in Kansas City in my junior 
year," she explains. "They had a one­
on-one tournament, and I played 
Carrie in the finals." 
After a bit of coaxing, Schueth 
finally admits, "I won -but it was 
really close." 
Schueth has not had much dif­ficulty adjusting to the demands on her time here at Notre Dame. "I spend a total of about three hours a day on basketball," she says. "A lot of people think there's not enough time to seriously study and play sports, but I disagree. Being busy dis­ciplines me. I've learned to budget my time." 
"In fact," she adds, "because I'm only playing one sport now, I think I have more free time than ever. In high school, I never had an off­season." 
Schueth says that she already has 
learned a lot about basketball during 
her fust season. "I'm learning how to 
play very good defense," she says. 
''Coach DiStanislao stresses unity 
through team defense." 
Team unity is imponant to Srhueth. "We have girls from all over the country on this team," she says. "We all have different per­sonalities and habits. But we're learning to work together. Most im­ponantly, we have to have fun to­gether. If we don't have fun, its not wonh doing it." 
As far as goals are concerned, Schueth hasn't thought about them much. "I'm not sure what I want to do when I graduate," she says. "I'm thinking about majoring in either business or pre-med." 
How about goals for this basket­ball season, Mary Beth? 
"Our team goal is to make the NCAA tournament," she says. "We definitely have the potential to make it. We just have to keep listening to the coaches and playing consistent­ly. Individually, I have to improve my free throw shooting. (At 40 per­cent, Schueth has the lowest per­centage of the five starters.) But I'm working on that." 
It's easy to tell that Mary Beth Schueth is a very intelligent girl who has her priorities straight. She is a credit to her coaches and her family when she says, "Please:: don't make me out to be a superstar. There are no superstars on this team. We all do the job together." 
And as long as Mary Beth Schueth is a part of the team, the team will continue to do the job. 

CHICAGO (AP)-Kevin Smith of Michigan State and Ted Kitchel ofln­diana are running one-two in the Big Ten basketball scoring race. 
Smith leads the race with a 21.1 average with 127 points in six games while Kitchel has a 20.8 average with 125 points in six games. 
Keith Edmonson of Purdue is third with an 18.0 average followed by Clark Kellogg, Ohio State, 1 5.8; Randy Breuer, Minnesota, I5.7; Thad Garner, Michigan, 15.2; Jim Stack, Northwestern, 14.8; Perry Range, Ilinois, 13. 5; Trent Tucker, Minnesota. 13. 5; and James Griffin, lllinois, 13.0. 
Kellogg leads the league in rebounding with a 12.3 average per game. Brad Sellers of Wisconsin is second at 9.0 followed by Garner at 
7.3 and Breuer at 7.2. Tied at 7.0 are Ike Person of Michigan, Russell Cross of Purdue and Bob Grady of Northwestern. 
Derek Harper oflllinois and Kevin Stallings of Purdue are the assists leaders, averaging 5.0 per game. They are followed by Eric Turner of Michigan at 4. 5, Smith at 4.2 and Dan Pelekoudas of Michigan and Steve Carflno of Iowa at 4.0. 
Sellers has 19 blocked shots, Cross I 5, Granville Waiters of Ohio 

MR.GOOD~ENCHISATYOUR 
SERVICE AT BILL KILLILEA S 
CO:MPLETE MR. GOODWRENCH SERVICE 

GENERAL MOTORS PARTS DIVISION KEEP THAT GREAT GM FEELING WITH GENUINE GM P~. 

State 12 and Breuer I 0. 
Harper and Randy Wittman of In­diana are tied for the lead in steals with 13 each followed by Sam Vin­cent of Michigan State with 1 I. 
Cross leads in field goal percent­age with 25 of 38 for a .658 percentage. K•:nny Arnold ofIowa is second with 26 of 41 for .634 followed by Person with 31 of54 for . 5 70, Range with 29 of 5 l and .569 and Kitchel with 36 of69 for .565. 
Kitchel is the free throw leader with 47 of 52 for a .904 percentage. Larry Huggins of Ohio State is second with l 5 of I 7 for .882, followed by Jim Thomas of Indiana with 17 of 21 for .81 0. Breuer wit 24 of 30 for .800 and Craig Tucker of lllinois with 20 of 25 for .800. 
Indiana leads in four of six team categories. The Hoosiers are tops in field goal percentage at .509 followed by Minnesota at. 'i02. Iowa . -!79, Purdue .""'73 and lllinois . -!61. 
Indiana is tops in free throw per­centage at .743 followed by Ohio State at .742, Michigan .721, Michi­gan State.720 and Purdue .713. 
Northwestern leads in opponents' field goal percentage. Teams are shooting .404 against the Wildcats. Purdue is second at .'120 followed by Iowa at .423, Indiana .426 and Ohio State .435. 
Indiana is tops in rebound margin with a plus 3.9 average. Michigan State and Iowa are tied for second with a plus 3. 'i, followed by Northwestern at plus 1.6 and Min­nesota at plus 0.2. 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer IS published by the students oi Notre Dame and Samt Mary s Col­lege Subscnpllons may be purchased for $25 per year ($ t 5 per semester) by -.vr111ng The Observer P 0 Box Q Notre Dame Indiana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The ·• Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. indiana 46556 


Ihe~nrer======================================== 
~~~~~==========================~==ed=n=e=s=d=ay='=J=an=u=a=ry==2=7='=19=8=2====p=ag=e===ll 
Michael Molinelli 



Simon 

00, BUT l to MilKE MONEt. l .Jil'>Y Gill£ \T ALL '\'Sf\0\ "l:> 11\£ 
C~U~CIL 

The Daily Crossword 
1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 1/27/82 All Rights Reserved 

ACTUALLY, MY Aliff ANO I COUW meA­
8LY IMKJ3 [JO WITH MY GOV&RNM13NT 
5ALARY, 8l!T IT'S 
NCJT FOR U5 7HAT 
rM /l£5/GNING.. 
/ 
THAT tiEAN<;. l GET 
TD ~lT 1'\V tt-lliRE. ltKoME.. 


Clwtk out flee 
OAKROOM CAFE 
iK S8Ullc. 'DUcUtg Half'& 'PruJ C~e 

For a late nite snack 
Nightly Specials 
Complete with a new jukebox 
9-12 am Fri.-Sat. 9·2 am 
Tuesday's Solution 
Campus ·. 
•lu:OO 
a.m. · 2:00p.m. -lnfonnation booth, HOSPICE, LeMans Lobby, Saint Mary's Campus 

• 
I0:00 a.m. -Discussion, Informal Session with faculty and grad students, Rev. Walter Principle, C.S.B., Sponsored by Department ofTheology 

•4:30 
p.m. -Colloquium, "Quality and Charac­ters in Finite Chevalley Groups", Professor Dean Alvis, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 226 Computer Center/Math Building 

•4:30 
p.m. -Seminar, "Characterization and Par­tial Purification of Rat Interferons", Dr. Gary R Burleson, 278 Galvin Auditorium, Sponsored by Department of Microbiology 

•6 
p.m. -Dance Class, Abiogenesis dance col­lective classes, Holy Cross Hall, Notre Dame 

•7, 
9, II p.m. -Film, "Thunderbolt and lightfoot", Knights of Columbus Hall, Sponsored by Knights ofColumbus. Sl admission 

•7, 
9:30p.m.-Film, "King of Hearts," Engineer­.ing Aud, Social Concerns Film Series, Admission free 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Authority: Its Nature and Necessity", Professor Ralph Mcinerny, Notre Dame, I 1 7 O'Shaughnessy Hall 


T.V. Tonight 
8:00p.m.  16  Real People  
22  A Conversation with the President  
28  Greatest American Hero  
34  Kennedy Center Tonight  
46  2 I st Century News  
8:30p.m.  46  The Renewed Mind  
9:00p.m.  16  Facts OflJfe  
22  CBS Movie: TBA  
28  The Fall Guy  
34  Write On!  
46  Today With Lester Sumrall  
9:30p.m.  16  Love, Sidney  
!O:OOp.m.  16  Quincy  
28  Dynasty  
34  Jazz Kicks  
46  Calvary Temple  
10:30p.m.  34  Camera Three  
46  Michiana Today  
ll:OOp.m.  16  NewsCcntcr 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
34  The Dick Cavett Show  
46  Praise The Lord  
11:30p.m.  16  Tonight Show  
22  CBS !.ate Movie  
28  ABC News Nightline  
34  Captioned ABC News  
12:00a.m.  28  l.ove Boar  
46  Lester Sumrall Teaching  
12:30a.m.  16  Tomorrow Coast To Coast  

Today in History 
In 1973, accords were signed in Paris ending the Vietnam War. 
On this date: 
In 1606, the trial of Guy Fawkes and his fellow conspirators openl."d in England. In 1943, U.S. bombers staged the first all-U.S. air raid on Germany in World War II. , In 1944, the Soviet city of Leningrad was com­pletely liberated from the Nazis in World War II. 
In 1967, Apollo astronauts Virgil Grisson, Ed­ward White and Roger Chaffee died in a llash fire aboard their space capsule. 
Ten years ago, North Vietnamese negotiators at the Paris Peace Talks said there could be no Viet· nam War settlement until the U.S. set a date for withdraw! of its troops and ousted the Thicu re~ime in Sa i!J>n . 
Five years ago, states of emergency were declared in New York and New Jersey as a two­week-old natural ga.o; crisis combined with bitter cold weathc:r to cause thousands of layoffs in a dozen states. 

ACTUALLY I ::JIJST qDT TOO CLO$TO .II 

Garry Trudeau 

Jeb Cashin 

ACROSS 1 Enumerate 5 Winter 
hazard 10 Rickey 
fruit 14 Assert 15 Caesar's 
father 16 Genesis man 
17 Refuge from oppressive government 
20 Ecclesias· 
tics 
21 Towit 
22 "-Three Lives" 23 Moviedog 
24 Proverbr, 27 Protective devices 31 Closet 
pests 32 Presaged 33 -King Cole 34 Single 35 Gold digger 36 Carry on 37 Gal of song 38 Sharpens 39 Santiago's 
land 40 Alienate 42 Warden 43 French 
river 44 Yours and mine 
45 Asian 
hunting dog 48 Ovoid 52 Symbol of 
freedom 54 Large 
volume 55 Loosen 56 Streets 
of Paris 
57 Nallwith an eye 58 Adjust, as 
a watch 59 Act the usher 
DOWN 1 Northern 
nomad 2 Novello 3 Only 4 Dusk 5 Treats 
maliciously 6 Entwined 7 Greek 
letters 8 Sniggler's catch 
9 Convey 10 Amateur 11 Unoccupied 12 Handle 
roughly 13 Television award 18 Lf•,ends 

19 Filledto the brim 23 Mosquito 
genus 24 Entertain 25 Spanish 
ladies 26 Leaning 27 Recipient 28 Escargot 29 Symbolic 
bird 30 Memberof 
a herd 32 Spree 35 Madame's 
husband 36 Speaks in a low voice 38 Japanese verse form 
39 South American Indian 
41 Sent flying 42 Ms Prowse 44 Kukla's pal 45 Fast planes 46 Upon 47 Tibetan 
monk 48 Newts 49 Factual 50 Willow 
genus 51 Wen 53 Wallet 
Item 
Celebrate the last week in January at 
~m~rr®rn rn~rn 
Tonight: Along with our usual Wednesday Nite Dr aft Special (9:30-11 :30) WE'RE GOIN' HOG WILD 
with A COORS DOWNSTREAM SUPER SPECIAL! don't miss it! (9:30-2:0 
I 
I 
~ 


·' 
Mike Mitchell and the rest of the Irish squad will have to put Monday's upset ofIdaho behind them to defeat the Black Bears ofMaine tonight. 
SeeSkip Desjardin's story below. (Photo by Rachel Blount) 

Tickets available 
Black Bears pawing Irish 
By SKIP DESJARDIN 
Sports Editor 
,.._ Last january, they billed it as "David vs. Goliath in Bangor." The University of Maine had broken into the world ofbig-time basketball, and were playing host to the nation's No. I team -DePaul. 
With I :30 to go in the ballgame, DePaul led 78-77, but the Black Bears had the ball. Guard Rick Car­lisle found Clay Gunn all alone un­der the basket for an easy lay-up that would put Maine ahead. 
It was the high point of Maine's struggle to reach a level of com­petitiveness in NCAA Division I bas­ketball. That journey began in 1977, when Black Bear coach Skip Chapelle decided to develop a bas­ketball team to rival the school's suc­cessful hockey program. 
~... That first season, Maine began playing teams outside New England on a regular basis for the first time in over two decades. Chapelle told Bear fans that, though the early going would be rough, the best way to build a winner was to play against winners. 
In that first year, Chapdle scheduled games with Valparaiso, South Florida and Farliegh Dickin­son. The next season he caught the attention of the entire state when the Bears took Marquette to overtime in Portland. The following season his squad beat South Carolina in the biggest win for the team in 20 years. 
But ,\1aine's climb stalled tem­porarily at the precise moment that Gunn took the pass from Carlisle in rhe game against DePaul. 
He passed up the easy basket, the Blue Demons stole the ball, and pulled away to an 85-77 win. 
When the season was over, Car­
lisle transferred to Virginia, and 
Champ Godbolt, the Bears' second­
best player departed for Holy Cross. 
The team was embarassed in Ken­
tucky's Rupp Arena before the Jar­gest crowd ever to see a Maine team play, 100-54. Things, in general, fell apart at the seams. 
"Throughout this season, we've had to face adversity," says Chapelle, who led Maine to irs glory years as a player in the late '50s and early '60s. "The turnover we've had on this squad, and the schedule we've faced has made this season the biggest challenge of my coaching career." 
Highlights of that schedule have included a third straight meeting with DePaul. Maine led the Demons through much of the first half, but could not keep up with the strong DePaul attack in the second stanza and lost 90-67. 
Another ranked team visited Maine and found out how tough it is to play before the fans there. Alabama trailed as late as midway thtough the second half before Bob­by Lee Hurt and Company pulled away to a 16-point win. 
See BEAR, page 9 

Double win 
Notre Datne UJins triangular 
By BRIAN REIMER 
Sports Writer 
What a difference a week makes! 
Last Thursday, the Notre Dame 
wrestling team fell to Bowling 
Green by a 44-2 count. Last night, 
the Irish won a triangular over East­
ern Michigan and DePauw in a 
dramatic style. DePauw was no 
match for Notre Dame, as the Irish 
ran away with a 54-6 victory, but the 
win over Eastern Michigan was a 24­
20 classic. 
Shawn Moloney, a 190-pounder, 126-pounder Joe Andreetti, !50­pounderJoe Agostino, 142-pounder Don Heintzleman and heavyweight Larry Kissner recorded pins against DePauw. The Irish won three other matches by forfeit, but had to sur­
render a forfeit at I 18-pounds to ruin hopes ofa shutout. Doug Skinner had to withdraw from the line-up in the afternoon 
due to an injury, but his loss was Shawn Moloney tied Eastern's balanced by the long-awaited return Shawn Thacker. joe Andreetti lost at of !67-pounder Phil Baty. Coach 126-pounds to put the Irish down by Brother joseph Bruno took ad­three, but joe Agostino gave Notre vantage ofthe situation to juggle the Dame its first lead with a major deci­Irish line-up against Eastern Michi­sion at I 50-pounds. Phil Baty then gan. celebrated his return to the line-up 
After the usual Notre Dame forfeit with a dramatic win at 177-pounds at 118-pounds, Craig Petoskey won to seal the victory and give The Irish a regular decision over Don a 9-2 record. Heintzleman in an exciting match to 
See WIN, page 8 

put Eastern up by a 9-0 count. The ~-------....:.--=------\ Irish drew to within three on a pin at 167-pounds,but the defecit 
INSIDE:

returned to nine after Larry Kissner was pinned by Joe Showerman at heavyweight to close the first ses­
Schueth, p .11 

sion. Curt Rood won a superior deci­sion at I 34-pounds to close the 
BigTen,p.lO

margin to four and 158-pounder Brian Erard knotted things up with a major decision victory. The score 
T.V. static,p.8

remained tied at the close of the second session when 190-pounder 
Wednesday, January 27, 1982-page 12 
Ron, Irish 'Rowan' toW"ard soggy Maine 
,. ': '•' 

Bill Marquard 
Sports Writer 
Irish Items 

WITHOUT MIRRORS -The Irish head into tonight's Maine game 
riding their first two-game winning streak of the year. But they also 
seem to be riding an intangible high which started against San Fran­
cisco two weeks and five games ago. 
Over those last five games, the Irish own a respectable 3-2 record, 
with their only two losses being to Top 20 teams San Francisco (57­
55) and Villanova ( -!H-46 ). The Irish had a chance to win both of those contests, and only lost each of them by two points. 
At the same time, Digger's squad has held its opponents to 57 points or less in those five games, holding three foes under SO. In so doing, the Irish dropped their points-allowed average 5.S points from 66. I to 60. S per game. The Irish have also outscored their op­ponents by better than 3 points-per-contest during the span. 
Maybe as a sign ofexperience or more aggressive play inside, the Irish have drawn the same number of fouls -57 -as they have committed over the two-week stretch, while outrebounding their opponents by eight caroms, 122 to 114. Offensively, Notre Dame has out field goaled (apologies to the English Department) their foes I09-107 and has out free thrown them 47-35 in only six extra at­tempts. 
TRIAL AND ERROR -Although Phelps has employed six dif­ferent starting lineups this season, the same fivesome ofJohn Paxson, Mike Mitchell, Tim Andree, Bary Spencer and Bill Varner have started the past four games. The only difference in the lineup at San Francisco was Tom Sluby, who started instead of Barry Spencer in lineup variation number 5. 
THE BEAVER FALLS CONNECTION-One of the keys to Notre Dame's recent success has undoubtedly been Ron Rowan. The fresh­man from Beaver Falls, Pa. (the same hometown as Frank LaGrotta, but don't hold that against Ron), has led the Irish in scoring in three of the last four games, netting 13 against Davidson, 14 vs. Maryland and a career-high I 7 against Idaho on Monday. During the same four games, Rowan has shot 16 of23 (.696)from the floor and hit on 12 of I 7 (: 706) free throws, adding I I rebounds and five assists. 
His statistical performance is even more remarkable when one considers that. prior to the Davidson game, the 6-5 guard had only hit on 3 of20 tleld goal attempts (. 1 50) and I of3 free throws ( .333 ). Thus, he has scored 44 of his season-total 51 points in the last four games alone. 
His cool performance at the free throw line as a freshman reminds one of two other recent Notre Dame backcourt standouts. Rich Branning, who graduated from Notre Dame in I980, went home to California and sunk the crucial free throws in No .tre Dame's 66-63 upset of UCLA on December I I, 1976. It was The Bruins' tlrst non­conference loss in Pauley Pavilion, and snapped a I I 5-game non­conference home winning streak. 
Another freshman namedJohn Paxson sank four free throws in the final five seconds to hand UCLA a 77-74 loss on December I I, 1979 in the ACC. 
HOME, SWEET, HOME -The Irish are 2-1 during their current seven-game, 17-day, mid-season homestand. All ofNotre Dame's vic­tories this season have come in the friendly confines ofthe ACC, and the Irish own a 5-4 mark at home this year. 
This is the eighth year that Phelps has scheduled an extended string of home games like this right after Christmas break. Usually there are between seven and ten straight games, either all at home or with one intervening weekend road trip. Remarkably, the Irish have never lost more than one game during this annual home string, losing a single homestand contest each year since 1974-75, with the exception ofa perfect 8-0 mark during the 1978-79 campaign. 
Of course, the last time the Irish lost more than three games at home (they were I 0-3 in 1972-73) was Phelps' first year, when the Irish managed a 3-9 record in the ACC. Notre Dame's 14-year record in thefacility stands at 169-32 (.841 ), while Phelps is 135-26 (.839) before the watchful eyes ofthe Notre Dame community. 
SUDDEN LIFE -Monday's victory over Idaho was Notre Dame's eighth overtime victory in the ACC against two losses. The Irish have won two straight and five of the last six overtime affairs at home, their only two extra-half losses at home coming at the hands of DePaul ( 69-68, February 12, 1978) and Ohio State ( 81-75, Decem­ber 4, 1972). 
CALL YOUR NEAREST TRAVEL AGENT -Prior to Monday's game, Idaho experienced a traveling odyssey that would have rivaled the best "economy" tour package any discount travel agent could have concocted. 
Following their Saturday night game against Montana in Missoula (sounds like... ), the Vandals faced weather for which Dick Addis' weather word would have been unprintable. The Vandals drove for four hours in rented cars to Spokane, Wash., mostly through a moun­tain pass which was supposed to be closed. After napping at the Spokane airport, the team caught a plane for Minneapolis, connected to Chicago, and bussed into South Bend, arriving at 3:30a.m. Mon­day morning. 
They then practiced in the ACC at noon. 
BEGINNER'S LUCK -One could tell on Monday that Idaho had not done quite enough research about Notre Dame before the game. When the visiting team comes out to practice before the game, they practice on whichever end of the court they want to go toward in the first half, understanding that they will go the opposite direction 
See ITEMS, page 9 






