..--~----------------------·------------------------------------------------------------------,---------------------------------------------­
SBP endorsement -page 6
' ' ' 



'Ebony' editor 
Bennettblasts Reagan policies 
By LAUREL-ANN DOOLEY 
News Staff 
Senior Editor for Ebony magazine Lerone Bennett urged black Americans last night to overcome recent political attempts to "turn America back to slavery" in a lecture opening The Black Cultural Arts Fes­tival of 1982. Also renowned as an author, poet and biographer, Ben­nett spoke about the importance of black history to Americans today and discussed the challenges presented to American blacks by the policies of the Reagan administra­tion. 
Citing Reagan as "disasterous," Bennett urged blacks not to give in to the new wave of conservatism that is sweeping the nation or to suc­
cumb to despair over the present situation. Instead, he suggested several positive steps. Bennett called upon blacks to pool their resources in opposition to Reagan, as he described Reagan's policies "a mean-spirited attempt to reverse the civil rights gains ofthe '60's." 
He also stated that the high un­employment rate of black Americans must be lowered and that the depth of the black studies move­ment must be better understood and supported. Finally, he addressed black students and professionals, tel­ling them to regard themselves "not as an elite class, but a warrior class." In Bennett's opinion, the individual 
talents and abilities make these people responsible in aiding fellow 
Forum analyzes business growth 
By MOLLY NOLAND 
StaffReporter 
The Notre Dame Finance Club hosted the twenty-fourth annual "Finance Forum" last Wednesday and Thursday, offering students a glimpse Into the current business world from four different perspectives. 
"We knew that the Forum was a success," commented Finance Club President Bob Davis, "since the two key ekments, the students and the speakers, gained from it. While the students learned knowledge they would never get in a classroom, the speakers enjoyed themsc:lves." 
Student reaction was favorable as well. Finance major Ellery Lindquist said, "The forums and receptions following them were good oppor­tunities to gain first-hand knowledge ofthe business world by listening to, and then meeting, financial ex­perts." 
Bernard Brennan, Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Of­fker of Sav-A-Stop Incorporated, began the forum Wednesday after­noon with a step-by-step analysis of his company's growth during the past six years. Sav-A-Stop is a Service Merchandising corporation that purchases products whole-sale and sells them to retailers. 
He traced his company's develop­
ment through five key stages, 
(survival, divestiture, business 
growth, expansion/financing, and 
up-stream merger), and he 
demonstrated how to turn a strug­
gling corportion into a profitable one. 
"The number one objective," stressed Brennan, "is to get the facts of the corporation and then find out where new management is needed." 
Barry F. Sullivan, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer ofThe First National Bank of Chicago, spoke Wednesday night on the present and future status of the commercial banking industry. 
Sullivan differentiated between wholesale banking, which provides services to corporations, institu­tions and government, and retail banking, which deals with in­dividuals. 
Among his predictions for the future of wholesale banking were the ideas that U.S. banks will pull back from international lending, and banks will be called upon to lend more to short-term customers. As a result, Sullivan believes that invest­ment banking will become bigger. 
In retail banking, according to Sul­livan, the near future will bring monthly income statements for in­dividuals as well as a reduction in thrift institutions. He blamed the high cost of funds and high interest rates for the troubled thrift institu­tions, and even predicted that savings and loan associations will someday disappear. 
Sullivan revealed his methods for dealing with the many expected changes in thret· steps: "Plan, push for an increased market share, and look toward the future." 
The investment banking field was 
represented Thursday night by 
Robert M. Conway a partner in Goldman Sachs & Co. 
Conway spoke to a standing­room-only crowd on the dramatic change in financial markets and the revolution on Wall Street. Speaking of the massive trend toward con­solidation oflarge corporations with investment banking firms, Conway 
See FORUM, page 5 

blacks. "College degrees are not for making money," he declared, "but for making freedom." 
Bennett also discussed the meaning of Black History Month which centers around remembrance, re-dedication and ac­tion. "This is the time to tap the living root of black experience, to remember the marvelous things blacks have done and to cc:lebrate the black gift," he asserted. 
Bennett commended several black scientists and inventors, as well as attributing all American musical contributions to black heritage as evidence of the essential role of this gift in American society. Even Bo Derek might not have rated a "10" had it not been for her corn­row hair style, he laughed. 
He went on to say that there is a tendency In history to ignore the black contribution to the American past. "Black peopk aren't guests or intruders in this land," he main­tained, adding Africa is as much a part of United States' heritage as Europe is. 
Bennett then spoke out against those who accuse blacks of prefer­ring welfare to work, arguing that no other people in documented American history have done more work than the black people, and no other people is owed more. He denied suggestions that black children are culturally deprived and that black college students have low I.Q.'s. He stated, "Black students al­ways have and will respond to redemptive tea<:hing." 
Undetermined number die in Tokyoblaze 
TOKYO, Japan-A pre-dawn fire raced through the top two floors ofa 1 0-story tourist hotel early yester­day, killing at least 32 people and injuring more than 60, Tokyo fire department officials said. 
An undetermined number of people remained unaccounted for as firefighters battled the flames into the late evening hours. 
The hotel is patronized mainly by tourists and foreign visitors, but it was not known immediately how many forc:ignt·rs were among the 440 registered guests. 
Witnesses said several guests jumped or fell from windows on the top floors of the Hotel New Japan, located in Tokyo's busy Akasaka dis­trict. Fire department officials said at least I00 people either fled the fire or were rescut•d from the building. 
A fire department spokesman said three people were killed when they jumped or fell from the upper hotel windows, but most of the others hospitals. Five dkd after being 
who perished apparently  were  as­ 
phyxiated.  
The  injured  were  taken  to  16  

received in the the emergency 
rooms, firefighters said. 
Fire officials said several of the 
injured appeared to be Koreans. 

The blaze broke out shortly after 3 
a.m. (I p.m. Sunday EST) and con­tinued to burn furiously. Fire depart­ment officials said it apparently started in a room on the ninth floor. It was discovered by a hotc:l employee. 
Fire officials said the New Japan 
had been ordered last fall to install a 
new sprinkler system, but the work 
had been completed on the first and 
second floors only. 

Hans Trippler, a businessman from Cologne, West Germany, who was staying on the eighth floor, said he saw several people jumping from the floor above. "They jumped out 
the window and they went sailing past my window," he said. 
Donald Ross McGhee, a tourist from Melbourne, Australia, said he saw one person dangling from a 
See BLAZE, page 4 

Contract problems 
Dorm food sales net $500, 000 
ByVIC SCIULLI 
StaffReporter 
Notre Dame dorm food sales have become a half­million dollar operation in the last year. 
Most ofthe dorms on campus have established a food sales system, each varying in size, complexity, and the items sold. But all have one goal in mind: to accom­modate hungry hall members. 
Each dorm determines its food sales manager in the 
~~~~r~ct~~~e~~~ M 0 N D A v-.w~JtFlll 
the following school year. Bids are taken by respective hall governments for the managerial position with each bidder making a 

presentation. 
The terms of the contract vary from dorm to dorm. Some dorms operate on a "profit percentage" basis in which the managers must pay their hall government a specified percentage oftheir monthly orsemestergross receipts. Other dorms operate on a rental fee system, where a fixed amount of money is paid to the hall's government each semester as determined in the con­
tract. The money paid in either case is used to help 
finance hall activities. 
Each method of paying has its advantages. Those 
dorms which pay by the rental fee fec:l that the proce­
dure gives the managers and employees a greater in­
centive to work since all money over and above the 
rental fee is profit. This method also enables managers 
to budget money out ahead oftime. 
Food sales operating by the profit-percentage system also see incentive as an advantage to their system. The exact percentage received by the hall government varies from dorm to dorm, ranging from five percent in Dillon Hall to 60 percent in Lewis. Ed Fisher, Dillon Hall's Food sales Manager believes that with the profit­percentage system, the dorm will work with him to in­crease profits since they know they will be getting a share. The more money food sales makes, the more money the dorm will get. 
Moya Nickodem, food sales manager at Lyons Hall, is cautious about the profit-pen·,·ntage system. "I feel that food sales should be a flat fee, not a percentage, to the dorm, because they're providing you with the space. It's just like renting out ofany place in town. By having to pay them a percentage of the profits, I feel that it could 
See SALES, page 4 

---~-­

Monday, February 8, 1982 -page 2 
ewsBrie./§ 
By The Observer and The AssociatedPress 
Administration officials defended President Reagan's budget yesterday -record deficits and all -as essential for the nation's ec~omic recovery. They predicted that despite ini· tial protests, Congress would wind up approving most of the 1983 spending plan. With congressional Republicans and Democrats alike recoiling at the prospect of deficits of S98.6 billion this year and 
S91. 5 billion in 1983, presidential counselor Edwin Meese III declared: "people still like his (Reagan's) program .. .I would never underestimate the ability ofthis president to mobilize the American people behind his policies." And Budget Director David A. Stockman said that when Congress looks at the "hard, stark choices ...they will understand very quickly that unless measures ofmagnitude that we've proposed by way ofsavings are adopted, that tere could well be a severe threat to the economic recovery ..." Reagan is asking for about 556 billion in savings for 1983, including cuts of S27 bil· lion in domestic programs. -AP 
The unemployment rate took an unexpected ­albeit statistically misleading-dip in January, falling to 8.5 percent from 8.8 a month earlier, as 300,000 Americans gave up looking for work while actual job opportunities failed to keep pace with the population. The Reagan administration claimed little if any satisfac· tion in Friday's analysis by the Labor Department, which Commis· sioner of Labor Statistics Janet L. Norwood said reflected "no real improvement in the labor market situation." While the adult civilian population increased by 165,000 to 173,495,000 in January, total employment actually declined by 32,000 jobs, the department said. 
-AP 

A minor leak at the Fort Calhoun, Nebraska nuclear power plant released radiation into the atmosphere and forced the evacuation of several workers before it was isolated, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission announced Friday. The leak occurred Wed­nesday, but the Omaha Public Power District, owner of the plant, said it did not think it necessary to alert reporters quickly because the release was so minor. Authorities said the release into the atmos­phere was "far less" than the amount of radiation vented in scheduled routine releases, and there was no danger to the public or to plant workers. The three-minute to four-minute release of radioactive gas occurred at 5:19p.m. Wednesday at the plant 19 miles north of Omaha. OPPD spokesman Roger McCarthy said the leak was discovered as gas samples were being taken from waste 
systems in the plant's auxiliary building. -AP 
An Indian air force transport plane crashed in the foothills of the Himalayas yesterday, killing all23 military personnel aboard, a government spokesman reported. He said the plane was carrying 19 soldiers and four crew members on "a routine supply mission" when it crashed during a snowstorm in the uninhabited region of Lobi Malar, 200 miles northwest of New Delhi. Air Force authorities sent helicopters into the storm to search the wreckage and ordered an investigation into the crash, spokesman O.K. Sharma aid. The United News ofIndia said local police patrols who saw the U.S.-made Fairchild Packet transport carrier go down in flames alerted authorities in the nearby town of Kathua. Three police rescue teams were rushed to the area and joined later by army search creit said. -AP 
A Salvadoran Communistclaimed Saturday that additional U.S. military assistance to El Salvador's junta will add to the bloodshed there. Speaking at the 24th congress of the French Communist Party in St. Ouen, Santiago Lopez, a representative ofthe Salvadoran Communist organization, said the U.S. policy in the Central American country will lead to further civilian massacres. Lopez said the United States was ignoring civilian support for the coalition of guerrillas fighting the government of junta President Jose Napoleon Duarte. -AP 
Anew Philippine opposition party yesterday accused the United States of using a "double standard" by quickly condemn­ing martial law in Poland but not strongly denouncing the situation here. A resolution "deploring" the U.S. stance was unanimously adopted by the 500 delegates of the Philipino Democratic Party (PDP) at their founding convention in this central Philippine port. The resolution said that while the United States was "quick to denounce" the Dec. 13 martial law decree in Poland, it made no move "to take effective means" to terminate martial law in the Philippines but "even supported (it) materially and morally." -AP 
Cambodia praised the Soviet Union and denounced China and the United States during welcoming ceremonies in Thailand for Marshal Nikolai V. Ogarkov, chiefofgeneral staffof the Soviet armed forces, the Cambodian news agency reported yester­day. Ogarkov arrived in Phnom Penh Saturday after a two-day visit to Vietnam, which has about 200,000 soldiers here. The Cambodian news agency said Ogarkov, who is also vice defense minister, and his delegation were received by senior Cambodian military officers at the Defense Ministr in Phnom Penh. Soey Keo, vice minister of defense, thanked Ogarkov for aid provided by the Soviet Union which he said enabled Cambodia to counter "all perfidious maneuvers ofthe Chinese expansionists in collusion with American imperialists and other reactionary forces." -AP 
Increasing cloudiness today with a slight chance ofsnow developing late in the day. Highs in low 20s. A SO percent chance ofsnow Monday night. Lows in mid and upper teens. Snow likely tomorrow. Turning colder with temperatures steady or slowly falling througllout the day. -AP 
sex and violence on television. 

Design Editor.................. Gregory Swiercz Design Assistants....................... Tim Neely Kathy Murray Typesetters ................................ Mark Miotto Ramblin" Ray lnglin News Assistant.............. Bob Vonderheide CopyEditors.........................)oe Musemeci Features Layout.............. Gregory Swiercz Sports Copy Editor.................. Ed Konrady Typist .................................... )ohn McCarthy Mary Agnes Carey ND Day Editor .......................... Dave Grote Ad Design ....................................John & Co. Photographer .................. Gonzalo S. Reyes Guest Appearances...... Bruce "Never Say Die" Oakley The Party that never ends Four homeless SMC chicks Guilty Party ).E.B. Cashin 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays except dunng exam and vacation penods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary s Col­lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wntmg The Observer P 0 Box Q Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 

No blizzard at ACC 
Show Them You Care On Valentines Day 
Purchase 
IheDhset:Ver 
Personals Only Ten Cents for every Seven Characters 
Available Now at Ihe1lbset:ver Office 3rd Floor LaFortune Daily 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Recentlty, the ACC has been plagued with a rash of concert cancellations. For the concert goer, like myself, this has been a disappointment to say the least, however, through this series of no shows, Notre Dame has been spared the indignity of having to admit that Ozzy Osbourne appeared on the University's ground. 
Many people are unaware of the type ofconcert that was scheduled to pollute the ACC last Saturday nigllt. The following are just a few of the events that highlight the solo career of"The Blizzard ofOzz": 
-While negotiating his first album contract with CBS Records, Osbourne walked into the meeting ofthe CBS exectutives, pulled out a white dove, bit the head off of the animal, spit the head out on the boardroom table and made a triumphant exit. In a similar vein, the old Ozzman likes to run around on stage as many perfor­mers do -however, he enjoys doing this on top oflive animals. -The infamous Ozzy's dirty bat story-the Osbourne invasion ofthe ACC was apparently postponed because the ole boy had a bad reaction to a rabies serum he was taking after biting the head off a bat during a concert. Truly, as his recent album states, "The Diary of a Mad­
man." 
Some of you may feel that 

deserve the classification of a concert. It does not belong in the same category with other rock performers that have been ht:re over the last couple of semesters: Bruce Springsteen, The Doobie Brothers, The Cars, and Yes just to name a few. These artists, whether you like their style or not, all sell con­cert tickets on the basis oftheir music and not on some gory stage antics. 
Osbourne goes after his concert audience with any­thing but his musical talent, if he has any, in mind. In support ofthis, his ad, which appeared in theJanuary 22 Observer indicates the type of show he supplies. The add claims that the Osbourne show is so gross that "eating before concert not recommended." Also the add states that "just when you thought it was safe to go back to a concert ... The Ozzy Osbourne Diary ofa Mad­man Tour. P.S. Dress for the Occasion.'.' Needless to say the angle ofOsbourne's P.R. for the show is not the average line ofsales used to draw people to a concert. With parents reading this type of add for a "rock con­cert," no wonder they keep Junior at home watching 

My second objection to the scheduling ofOsbourne at the ACC is that the Notre Dame which criticized the inviting of President Ronald Reagan to speak at last spring's comencement ceremonies is the same Notre Dame which invited Osbourne. 
How can people on the one hand oppose the ap­pearance ofa man who claims to act for the interest of world peace and the improvement of domestic condi­tions, while on the other hand remain silent when a madman like Osbourne is slated to put on a show at the ACC? 
Maybe it is not the "in" thing to do, to protest against the crude acts ofOsbourne, while the "in" thing to do is to protest against the policies ofthe Reagan administra­tion. 
By no means should this 
the scheduling of Osbourne be taken as an endorsement does not contradict the of the policies of Ronald morals of ND -that Rick­
Reagan. It should, however,
ott 
abaugh wanted to write a be noted that Reagan takes column to please Mommie his various courses ofaction and Daddy. (Things are under the claim that they going O.K. Mom, I'll write as will benefit all Americans in soon as I finish this column.) the long run. 
But the main reasons I am Many Notre Dame stu­opposing Osbourne's show dents and faculty were quick are because 1) it gives a bad to voice their protest at the name to good and reputable decision to have Ronald performers, and 2) we have Reagan speak at the com­opposed the appearance of mencement exercises. They other people at Notre Dame claimed that he was before. diametrically opposed to With regard to the first of the Roman Catholic beliefs 
my objections, • the Os­which ·Notre Dame stands 
bourne show does not for. 
Ifwe are so worried about the University being the embodiment of the Catholic position on many social issues why was there little, if any, protest against the Ozzy Osbourne show coming to theACC? 
Surely this does not mean that the administration supports this kind ofbehavior? 
It would appear that the adminstration is forfeiting its better judgement·and seeks the money that the Os­bourne fiasco would bring into the ACC. From the nature of the concert, few people would deny that the majority of the ND-SMC study body would not attend the show. 
In no way is this an argument for the administration to scrutinize everything slated to appear at the ACC with a fine tooth comb; however, I suggest that the Uni­versity should not let everything with a promoter and a record album set foot on the stage. 
The concern for issues such as peace and world hun­ger should not so blind us that we allow undesirable instances occur in our backyard. 
The Observer Monday, February 8, 1982 -page 3 
Economists disagree 
Reagan expects recovery soon 

WASHINGTON (AP) Un­swayed by the recession that upset his glowing forecasts of a year ago, President Reagan says he still ex· pects robust economic recovery ­just one year later than planned. But after one year of "Reaganomics," private economists are as skeptical a11ever. 
Reagan's budget for fiscal year 1983, released this weekend, calls for the biggest federal deficits in his· tory during the same three years in which he now predicts the nation will climb out ofrecession and head into a strong recovery.
• h c

P01ls Ommunlsts 
At this time last year, Reagan said overall U.S. economic growth would be slight in 1981 but would bounce back at a healthy 4.2 percent rate in 1982 after adjusting for inflation. 
Now, Reagan says growth this year will be much less -just two· tenths of 1 percent. But once again, they are saying "wait till next year", when they predict economic growth will be 5.2 percent. 
Reagan was right last year on infla­tion. It even declined faster than he had predicted in 1981 , and most analysts agree that it will keep falling this year. 
• 

WAR..'iAW, Poland (AP) -A top Communist Party official said the 1980 strike-ending accords n·cognizlng the Solidarity union were a mistake, the newspaper Zyck Warszawy reported yesterday. 
Another official said yesterday 
that tough curbs on union activity 
arcn'tlikely to be lifted this year. 
Some observers said the newspaper comments by party offi· cial Wladyslaw Lorane, chief of the state-run radio and television, ap­sx·arcd to be the first time the entire process of reaching accord with the strikers In August 1980 was being seen as a miMake. 
Party leaders have said since the Dec. 13 military crackdown that it was necessary to make a thorough analysis of the so-called Gdansk ac· cords, named after the Baltic port city where the government-strikers negotiations took place. Govern· mcnt leaders have at the same time said there would be a role for unions in Poland after calm was restored. 
· 

Lorane was quoted as saying that 
the agreements, which launched 
Solidarity as the first labor federa­
tion in the Soviet bloc free of party 
control, were a "false start." 

The government-controlled 
paper quoted him as saying the 
agreements had only "local 
meaning." 

"The agreements ...were not based on careful political analysis," the article quoted Lorane as saying. "They had local meaning and served 
however as a system norm which made it easier for ...anti-socialist forces to gain massive support in the community ofworking people." 
Lorane said the "mistake" in offi­cial thinking on the accords became clear with the registration of Solidarity in November 1980, and its subsequent emergence as an or­
ganized opposition force. 

The union had threatened a nationwide strike by its 9. 5 million members if the high court ruled against it. 
But last year, the president and his advisers said interest rates and un­employment also would be coming down. For the most part, they in­creased instead. 
Reagan's new forecast says the jobless rate this year will be the hig­hest in 40 years, averaging at 8.9 per­cent. But it says once again that interest rates will decline this year and will keep falling in 1983 as un­employment also drops. 
Private economists tend to agree that the president's plan -coupled with continued tight control of the money supply by the Federal Reserve Board -make strong recovery only possible rather than probable and make the lasting recovery Reagan promises not very 
Consl. der unt·on 'mt·stake ' lik~~act, t~ey say, the nation_could
be thrown mto a new recessiOn by 
this tii_ne next year ifthings go really wrong. "It all depends on interest rates," said Michael K. Evans, president of Evans Economics in Washington. High interest rates, a major cause of the current recession, have been widely laid to the restrictive federal control ofthe nation's money supply -a policy backed at least in name by the Reagan administration. And although rates fell last fall, they have been rising again recently. 
SMCpoll 
Students believe campus ~afe' 
By SANDY v ALENZUELA 
News Staff 
A large majority of Saint Mary's students believe their campus is very safe, according to a SMC Stu· 
Keats look-alike 
Stevenson visits SMC campus 
By CINDY COLDIRON 
.'itaffReporter 
Mark Stevenson, an actor and Keats Scholar who is said to resemble the English poet, will be on the Saint Mary's campus from Tuesday feb. 9 until Thursday Feb. 
11. lie will perform "This Living Hand," a dramatic portrayal of the life of the poet John Keats , tomor· row at 8 p.m. in the Saint Mary's Little Theatre. 
The title "This Living Hand"· comes from a fragment of a poem written in Keat's last year and is a recreation of the brief life of John Keats through his poetry, letters, and memoirs offriends. It traces the poet from his early days as an ap­prenuce "u.~eu•l to his death at age twenty-five. 
John Keats ( 1795·1821) was a major poet of the Romantic Period. Most of his major works, which in­clude "Ode to a Grecian Urn" and "Ode to a Nightingngalc," were writ· ten in a one year period from 1818 to1819. 
Saint Mary's Assistant Prof. of English Dr. Robert Hartley remarked th.at Mark Stevenson "does a remarkably realistic portrayal of Keats. He really makes his come alive." 
Stevenson, who graduated from Amherst College, will also be conducting workshops and lectures with both the Theatre and English departments during his stay. 


Professor ofEnglish Greg Shimer, left, andjim dramatic reading of james joyce's Dublincrs Thavis ofthe Theatre Guild ofthe Council ofIrish during the Centenary Celebration of joyce's Arts, Chicago, were part of a troupe that gave a birth.~ay. (Photo by Gonzalo S. Reyes) 
Office ofManagement and Budget Director David Stockman ap· pears before the Senate Committee of Governmental Affairs Thursday on·Capitol Hill to outline the Reagan administration's "newfederalism" package. ( AP Laserphoto) 
dcnt'Government survey taken last campus. semester to evaluate student The poll asked students their 
opinion on various aspects of the 
community. 
As a whole, the students con­
sidered the security system cour· 
teous, h~lpful during emergencies, 
visible, and available Off-campus · 
students, however, expressed dis· 
satisfaction with parking condition. 
Most students arc satisfied with the existing academic core require­ments, the poll indicates, but many students do want more flexibility in this area. 
Saint Mary's students depend primarily on posters on wall for communication about campus events, and then the Observer and word of mouth. 
Students are in favor of the SMC Student Government taking charge of renovating the old library into a student union college center and better balancing of activit!~l> on opinion of the present parietals sys­tem, but no tallies were available. 
Most students agreed that the primary purpose of the Student Government is communication be· tween students, faculty, and ad­ministration. Next highest in votes was the proposal that the organiza­tion exists to encourage student par· ticipation in social activities. available. 
Students with academic problems said that they would probably speak first to Mrs. Teresa Marcy, assistant to vice-president for academic af. fairs, then to Susan Vanek, freshman adviser, or their department chair· man. 
Eileen Murphy, president of SMC Student Government, explained that the main purpose of the survey was to get an idea of what the students expected ofthe government. 
~·u•n••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••nn••••••••ll••••••••••••••••••••••••u•••••••••••...--.....-­
Co~tmo. g ffiam cne~tgn 
l'S461 St. Rd. 23 South Bend, ca~: for appointment 2 77-18 75 
-shampoo, conditioner, cut style Guys-$7.00 (reg. 13.00) Girls-$10.00 (reg. 18.00) 
...........................................................................................u ........................... 
1': 

Attention Juniors!  I  
Seating Reservations for Junior Parents Weekend President's Dinner  II  
will be held Wednesday, February 1Oth Thursday, February 11th  
7·9 p.m. in the Nazz  
.¥¥¥ First Come First Serve.  
¥¥¥ Attend with friends you wish to sit with or nearorbring  
their l.D.s (maximum· 6 J.D. s)  
¥¥ ¥  Note: You must know their home addressesand  
localphone numbers.  


The Observer Monday, February 8, 1982 -page 4 
...Sales 
continuedfrompage 1 

lead to corruption because your going to beardown the minimum profit. You can undercut the profits so that the dorm doesn't get as much." 
The operation and control of each food sales also varies. Keenan Hall, which operates "Zaland," one of the campus' most popular food sales, has a five-man board consistingofthe hall's rector, hall president, food sales manager, hall council representative, and a workers representative. They meet as needed to discuss food sales operations. However, it is Zaland's manager, Steve Riney, who does all hiring and firing and makes all major decisions regarding the direction of food sales. 
Dorms like Lyons, however, which have a smaller food sales operation, do not have as sophisticated a sys­tem, with almost all decisions and work being done by the managers. 
The amount of rector participation in food sales dif­fers widely. Many rectors serve as advisers to food sales but do not have great controlin their management and operation. Other dorm rectors have more active roles. Rectors ofboth Keenan and Flanner co-sign checks that are paid out by their dorm's food sales. 
Except for regulations in Du Lac, the administration has almost no involvement in the running offood sales. Moya Nickodem expressed her discontent with the ad­ministration's lack of cooperation in on one specific matter. Last year, a leakage in the dorm damaged the ceiling above the food sales room and ruined some of the stock. Requests were made to repair the damage in the dorm from the leak. The only place which was not repaired was the food sales room. Maintainence ex­pects that the managers pay for repairing the damage. Nickodem and her partner Mindy Fey refuse to pay for the damage, citing the fact that they are tenants in the building and that they are not liable to pay for the damage. 
When Nickodem took over food sales last year, she was faced with a several hundred-dollar debt which had been incurred by food sales managers over the years. However, a clause in her contract specifically stated that "owners are liable." Since she was not the owner when the debts were incurred, she was not liable topay them. 
The importance ofunderstanding the terms ofa writ­ten contract became evident this year in PangbornHall when a misunderstanding in the terms of their food sales contract caused a number of problems for that dorm. 
Prior to the incident; the hall's food sales operated on 
a 50-50 profit split with the hall. When, however, 
spoilage of supplies occurred, the dorm's hall govern­
ment felt that the 50-50 split meant an even split on all 
expenses. The manager felt that the dorm alone had to 
assume responsibility for certain expenses and that the 
dorm had to pay for those expenses. 
The incident resulted in accusations of graft being 
made by nonresidents against Pangborn's food sales 
managers. The contract be~en food sales and 
Pangborn's Hall government has changed to a strict 
rental fee for the second semester. 
Haig leads USSR condemnation 
MADRID, Spain (AP) -U.S. Secretary ofState Alexander M. Haig, Jr. was heading for Madrid on yester­day to lead a major Western con­demnation of repression in Poland and blame the Soviet Union for fostering the military crackdown. 
Haig was scheduled to deliver a major address tomorrow at the 35­nation European Security Con­ference denouncing the violation of human rights in Poland and charging the Soviets with complicity in break­ing the 1975 Helsinki accords guaranteeing human rights and respect for national sovereignty in Europe. 
More than a dozen foreign mini­sters from NATO and Common Market nations were expected to join Haig in the drive to arouse global indignation over events in Poland. 
It was understood the United thought the Polish situation might 
be improved by next fall. 

Haig will meet with top Spanish 
officials today for talks on renewing' an agreement permitting U.S. use af 
Spanish air and naval bases. 

' .Blaze 
continuedfrom page 1 

sheet on the 9th floor. "Finally the flames got to him and he dropped," said McGhee, who escaped the fire with his wife and son, Andrew, 25, from their rooms on the 8th floor. 
Both Trippler and the McGhees said there was no warning alarm. They said they heard the sounds of breaking glass and people running. Bv the time they realized the hotel States might lead a walkout of its allies from the meeting later in the week to show allied disapproval of the Dec. 13, 1981 imposition ofmar­tiallaw in Poland. 
But Western sources ack­nowledged on the eve of Haig's arrival that a procedural snarl might blunt the U.S.-led denunciation. 
Poland's deputy foreign minister, JosefWiejacz, who will be presiding when the Security Conference .con­venes tomorrow after a long Christmas recess, said he would not allow the meeting to take UP. what he considered an internal matter. 
The Soviet news agency Tass quoted Wiejacz as saying he would also oppose having "recent happen­ings in Poland exploited to worsen the international situation." 
The Madrid meeting of 33 European countries, the United States and Canada has been bogged down in East-West disagreement over alleged Soviet violation of human rights and military security proposals since it began 14 months ago. 
The head of the Spanish delega­tion, Javier Ruperez, told reporters there was some Western feeling to seek a recess until next fall because of the Polish situation, but noted that agreement on a recess might be difficult because all 35 nations would have to approve. 
A Dutch source who asked not to 
be identified said some NATO 
delegations felt further talks at the 
Security Conferene would be un­
productive as long as the Polish 
government maintained martial law. 
He said nations favoring a recess did not include any afthe neutral or non-aligned countries, and he gave no reason why the Western nations 
was on fire, sntVKe was so thick that it was difficult to find exits, they said. 
The fire was still burning through the top two floors at" 7 a.m., with flames and smoke pouring from win­dow. The upper stories, reportedly decorated with Japanese-style furnishings, were gutted. 
More than 80 pieces of fire­fighting equipment were at the scene. Nearby streets were cordoned offby police. 
He is also expected to touch on Spain's entry into the North Atlantic Treaty Organization this spring in talks with the Spanish head of state, King Juan Carlos, and Premier Leopolda Calvo Sotelo. 
Haig leaves Wednesday for over­night stops in Portugal, Morocco and Romania. A U.S. source in Wash­ington said Haig will make American concern about Poland clear to his East bloc host, Romanian President N~Ql~e Ceausescu. 

By MARY MCINERNEY 
News Staff 

The Saint Mary's Board of Gover­nance discussed a proposal to trans­form the Spiritual Commission into a Christian Life Council last night. 
Campus Ministry submitted the proposal, which defines the Council as the liason between the Board of Governance and Campus Ministry. 
The Christian Life Council togeth· the manual and make deletions and additions that reflect the present Board's ideals." 
Other issues discussed at the meeting were the mandatory elec­tions meeting scheduled for tomor­row at 5:30 in the Student Government Room, the importance ofthe snow removal schedule for all students owning cars and more sup­port for the Hospice school charity. 
er with Campus Ministry would of-=======·======== fer a variety of activities to nourish the 'faith life' ofthe students. Emmie Lopez, Vice President of Academic 
Council sets 
Affairs stated, "The Christian Life 
Council is a more formalized structure than the Spiritual Commis­sion." 
The Board is currently revising the Student Government Manual. The manual explains the purpose and structure ofthe Saint Mary's Stu­dent Government. Student Body President, Eileen Murphy, stated "It is important for the Board to review 

~~~ to help you consider the priesthood 
in the Congregation of Holy Cross 
~Friday  I  FPbruary 26 to SaturdayI  tomorrow.February 27 taught in the  
7:00 p.m .  12:GO p.m . duct the course  
I  

Moreau Seminary 
[126~-by calling the Vocation Office 
no cost 239-6385 
L----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Free U. courses 

The Student Academic Council is presently organizing a Free Univer­sity to be held this spring. Free Uni­versity is a collection of non-credited "mini-courses" on various topics of interest, not typi­
cally found in the standard cur­riculum. Previous Free University courses have included Greek Myt­hology, Polish . Folk Dancing and 
Mechanics. 

So, if one has a special area of in­terest that he would like to share with the Saint Mary's Community, he should submit a course title and description to Emmie Lopez care of Student Activities by 2:00 p.m. 
Feb. 9. Classes will be 
evening, and perspective instructors are asked to submit a time at which they can con­
which they proposed. The location of the classes will be arranged by the Stu­dent Academic Council 
Registration for classes will be held Thursday and Fridi!y Feb. 1 1 and 12, in the Student Act.ivities office. The Free University will begin Feb. I5. and will continue for four to six weeks. depending on the needs ofthe instructo t r. 

~-------------------------.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~.--~ 
Monday, February 8, 1982 -page 5 
The Observer 
M-1 tank lllay prove inferior in colllbat 
WASHINGTON )ap) -Defense Soviet tanks are ...of concern to Secretary Caspar Weinberger said us.'' yesterday the new :vt-1 tank, the Keith said the effectiveness of the most costly ever built by the United kind of ammunition fired from the States, may disappoint U.S. hopes M-l's main gun has "been degraded that it would be bt:tter than Russian by new armor" on Russian tanks. tanks it might face in combat. The M-1 rank's I05-milimeter gun 
The 5H-ton M-1. first all-new ll.S. fires what are called "kinetic energy tank in about 20 years, has been rounds," which litt·rally burn their counted on to oft'set by quality a way through thick armor plate be­four-to-one Soviet advantage in cause of their high velocity. numbers. Weinberger mentioned the M-1 as 
Only last month, the Army began he noted that the Soviet Union has issuing :vt-1 tanks to U.S. combat been cuning into the Nonh Atlantic troops in West Germany. Alliance's advantage in quality of 
"The qualitative advantage we weapons. had hoped to a<.-hicve by fielding the "NATO has traditionally sought to :vt-1 tank may be offset by continu­offset the Warsaw Pact's numerical ing improvements in current Soviet advantages with higher quality tanks and by the t·xpected fielding of equipment," Weinberger said. the Soviet T-HO tank," Weinberger "However, the:: Soviet moderniza­said in a report prepared for tion of armaments has diminsihed, Congress. He is traveling in the and in many cases reversed, NATO's 

Dr. Peter Grande, left, and Dean Robert Wad­of the application process into graduate school.
Middlt· East. qualitative edge." 
dick await the passage of time as hopeful stu­(Photo by Gonza/o S. Reyes)
The Weinberger report was In addition to the apparent disap­
dents take their Graduate Record Exams as part
released yesterday after President pointment of hopcs that the M-1 Rt·agan announced a record 5215.9 tank would be superior to Russian billion Pentagon spending budget armor, Weinberger also said for next year, including about $1.9 "NATO's qualitative edge in air 
... Forum
billion for an additional 776 M-1 forces has been diminishing." tanks. This works out to nearly S2.5 "The combination of improving million per tank. quality and a widening lead in num­
banking industry has recently in­
As recently as last November, bers of major systems gives the continuedfrom page 1 "Workers must bt:ar the rcspon­
creast:d its diversity by adding 
sibility ofthe present economic con­vice chiefofstaff, claimed the M-1 is all opcrational capability," the Gen. John W. Vessey Jr., the Army's Soviets a growing advantage in over­
elaborated on several basic reasons money markets and insurance to its ditions. Thcy cannot ignort: reality." the "best tank in the world." defensc Secretary says. for the mcrgt:rs. product line. According to Anderson, unions He first pointed to the growing Other reasons for the incrcasing usually unnt:cessary, and often
However, Army Lt. Gen. Donald R. He said an accclcrated U.S. and are earning potential of mergers now at numbers of mergt:rs. according to harmful in today's economy. "Therc
Keith, a top research and develop­allicd effort to improve their forces ment official. has told Congress that is necded if NATO is to be able to 22 percent per year. "The industry is Conway, include their ability to ap­is too much compt·tition in thc ncar the top of any industry in the peal to different markets, and the ex­world to have to fight unions," said
"advann·d armors being used in defend itselfduring the 19HO's. country," said Conway, "Their supe­istence of the Glass-Steegle Act Andcrson, "Workers function effi­rior financial performance since the forbidding banks to tradc in cicntly without third-party inter­mid-1970's accounts for their sccurities. ft:rence, without strikt:s."
Semester in Mexico 
success." The final speaker ofthe forum was Using The Hanna Mining Conway also said consolidation Robert F. Anderson, president and Company as an t:xample, Anderson and internal diversification dampen chiefcxecutive officer ofThc Hanna t:xtolled the bent:fits of business
accepting applications 
the "cyclical shock" of an industry, Mining Company, who spoke without unions: "Scveral yt:ars ago, 
thereby allowing for profits of one Thursday night on the recent Hanna movt:d into t:nergy related Students enrolled in the Semester and of another developmcnts in labor-managemcnt activities . . . arc
By ROBERT MAROVICH branch losses to all non-union;
in Mexico program study at tht: Uni­relations.
balancc out. The investment managers can gain trust without uni­
News Sluff 
versidad lbt:roamericana, a Jcsuit "Unionism is on trial in Amt:rica 
ons. and produ<.'tivity is greateruniversity in Mt:xico City. All classes this year." Anderson statc:d, without them." 
are conductt:d in Spanish, and a su­
Music

Applications are now being ac­
pcrvised volunteer cepted for the Semestcr in Mcxico accurupanies tht: academic 
******************* 
program sponsorc:d by the Centc:r program. Fifteen crcdits arc 
lessons 

for Experic:ntial Lc:arning. awardcd upon completion ofstudy. The: program, offered during both a student from
joe Rt:gotti, the 
EARN
spring and fall semesters, is open to Scmester in Mexico pilot program, 
offered 

any junior or qualificd sophomore 
describt:d the cxpcrience as who has completed one ycar of 
"helpful in undt:rstanding world 
Music lessons in a variety of insru­

Spanish and wishes to learn more politics relative to world powers. 
ments are offered by the Preparatory 

BUCKS
ahout Latin American and Spanish Personally, thc best bencfit of thc 
and Continuing Studies in Music

culture. 
program was the perspective I got of 
program. Beginning through ad­the acadcmic and social lift: of 
vanced students arc taught by mem­

The~Observer 
Mexico and Latin American 
bers of the faculty, by graduate developing countries." 
needs Design Assistants.
students,and by cxperit:nccd com­

Phalin 
lntert:sted students are invited to 
munity teachers. attend a meeting Fcbruary 16 at 7 For further information, contact
• t---One night each weel~ 
p.m. in thc Social Concerns alcove, the director ofthe program, Darlene
recetves 
LaFortune Student Center. Students Catello. at 239-7658, after 2:00p.m., 
...,__-Excellent working conditions 
can call Marcia LeMay at 239-5319. and staffare welcome. 
unable to attt:nd the meeting or at 232-5 141. All students, faculty, 
award 
t---Fringe benefits 

Good times 
Howard V. Phalin, a 1928 graduate and major bcnefactor of the University of Notrt: Dame, will 
t----Learn the newspaper business 
receivc the Alumni Association's Ed­ward Frt:dcri<.'k Sorin Award during the association's reunion banquet 
on June 5.1 
CallMIKE 239-7471 
Tht: award is named for the 
Frt:nch priest who foundcd thc Uni­¥ ••••••••••••••••• 
vt:rsity in IH42, and is given annually 
~·••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••r• 
to a Notre Dame graduatt: "for dis­tinguished scrvice to tht: Univer­
Tired ofdowningyourfish sandwich with 
sity." 
l'halin. of Wilmt:tte. Ill., is thc lukewarm milk? Then come out to Senior rc:tirc:d board chairman and chidex­t•cutive offict:r of Fit:ld Enterprises Bar for a new lunchtime alternative every Educational Corp. and a formcr chairman of tht· National Bank of Tuesday and Thursda_y (rom 11:30-1:30 North Evanston. Ill. fit: is an emaitus memht-r ofthe University's Beginning tomorrow/ Uoard ofTrustel'S and also st:rvcd on tht· Arts ami Letters Advisory Coun­cil ;md l.ihrary CounciL lie: reccivc:d an honorary Joctoratc of laws dt:­grt:e from the Univt:rsity in 1<)68 and rl'!nains active in· the :'\lotre Damc 
Cluh ofChicago. With his wifl'. Evangeline. l'halin t•ndowt·d a fund li>r tht: purchase of 
Did you see that? Fans ofall ages enjoyed the Notre Dame icers' 
books in English litcraturt-li>r the 
su•el'fi of Lake Superior State last u•eekend at the ACC. (Photo by
llniVl'rsity's :\1emorial Library. 
jobn .\facor) 

'··································································· 



Editorials 
Monday, February 8, 1982 -page 6 
Bombs in our backyard 
The Reagan administration came to 
tivity of the fallout, but extend it, give 
office promising to remedy a new Garry WDis
it a serial effect, a temporal unending­
"missile gap" the growth of Russian 
ness. The fission products of the plant 
weapons that will create a so-called 
are made up of more stable isotopes
"window of vulnerability" in the next 
than the newly made isotopes of the Outrider 
few years. 

blast, which will decay more rapidly 

But the administration, despite all of land one takes place, it can makethan the plant's. 
its attempts to throw money at the our plants unusable, all the expense
As Schell writes: "The intense but
problem (i.e., at the Pentagon), is ac­today a net loss.
comparatively short-lived radiation
tually building bombs for the Rus­
from the weapon would kill people in
sians. The other part of our economy This is true even in peacetime. In
the first few weeks and months, but the 
that is sacrosanct to the Reagan ad­wartime, we would be hostage to our
long-lived radiation that was produced
ministraion is the nuclear energy own plants. We build an arsenal
both by the weapon and by the power
program. Yet every nuclear plant we against ourselves in our own back
plant could prevent anyone from living 
build is a bomb for the enemy. 

yard. We give the Russians, free, a 
on a vast area of land for decades after 
whole second tier of weapons, ofit fell." 
manufacture, for their use. Or for 
theNuclear war and nuclear energy are 
use of any possible enemy. To quotenormally treated as separate issues. 
Schell as last time: " It can be putBut fission and fusion bind them, in­We are not able to re-enter the Three 
down as one further alarming oddity evitably. People discuss the problem Mile Island plant even now. Its life in a nuclear world that in buildingof "disturbing" nuclear plants by cleansing is a slow job, and ruinously nuclear power plants nations haveforces like earthquake. That is a expensive. It makes no sense to build opened themselves to catastrophicproblem; an earthquake could release things whose possible mafunction devastation and long-term contamina­radioactive destruction of devastating overweighs any possible benefit of its tion of their territories by enemies who local effect, with fallout spreading functioning. Ifan accident even slight­manage to get hold of only a few
ly more serious than the Three Mile Is-
nuclear weapons." 

But a bomb, even a conventional bomb, can do as much as an earthquake. Even terrorists' ex­plosives can do that. Furthermore, a nuclear bomb exploding on or near a nuclear plant, either by intent or acci­dent, would be a true mating of destrucitive twins, with results expanding the lethal capacity of each nuclear agent in itself. 
Jonathan Schell, in a New Yorker 
atseries that everyone moment, should be reading Dr. Kosta
this quotes Tsipis of M IT on the fruits of such a marriage. The radioactive materials of 
the plant would be carried up in the 

mushroom cloud of the bomb. This 
would not only intensify the radioac-
Congress can control the courts 
What two things happened on Sept. with such exceptions and under such The Bill of Rights, after all, is to a 1859, attempted to break through to -------~=~----1 25, 1789? Give up? substantial extent a recitation of the the court by charging a writ of error by WjiJinm D••-I.IIJ 
regulations as the Congre~s shall rights of American citizens up against the trial court. but the court ruled no-IQU;AIPresident George Washington make." Just what did the framers 
cnmmal charges. Yet the same
signed the Judiciary Act. And the mean by those words, asked a thing doing, reiterating that there was
Congress that passed the Judiciary Act 
Senate approved the Bill of Rights. querulous delegate during the debate no appellate jurisdiction in criminal On the Right
passed the Bill of Rights. "The Fourth
And why is this important? Because it over ratification in the Virgina As­cases and that that had "for too long
Amendmment," C. Dickerman Wil­
has got into the head of peop~e who sembly. He was set right as to their been acquiesced in as sound exposi­
liams, the legal scholar, summarizes in
should know better, most consptcously meaning by no less than John Mar­tions of the Judiciary Act to be changed 
an essay on ''Congress and the 
come true: "The Supreme Court hasMr. David Brink, the ne~ prestdent ~f shall, whom custom acknowledges as without an act of Congress."
Supreme Court," protects against un­
become the real law-creating body o
the American Ba: Assoctatton, th~t It a supreme interpreter of the Constitu­
is both un-Amencan and unconstttu-tion. Said Marshall: reasonalbe searches and seizures; the Nor is this only ancient lore. Profes­our government." But is is also true 
tiona) to propose that Congress look in-Fifth protects against compulsory self­sor Herbet Wechsler, Harlan Fiske that the Constitution decrees that ''all 
to the merits of redefining the Supreme incrimination; the Sixth assures the Stone professor ofconstitutional law at legislative powers hereby granted are 
Court's jurisdiction. "What is the meaning of the term right of counsel; and the Eighth Columbia addressed the issue back vested in the Congress.'' 
exceptions?... Congress is empowered protects against cruel and unusual when there was all the fighting about 
What is significant about the coin-to make exceptions to the appellate punishment." Now what is significant limmitation in the '60s, and he con­What has happened is that the 
idence is that the two principal draf­jurisdiction, as to law and fact, of the here is that the Judiciary Act did not cluded ruefully (as a political liberal): Supreme Court has been accepted as a ters of the Judiciary Bill (indeed, the Supreme Court. These exceptions cer­give to the Supreme Court appellate " I see no basis for the view (that the final conscience of the nation. But that original of the bill survives, in their tainly go as far as the legislature may jurisdiction in any criminal case. This exceptions clause has a narrow is usurpation. It may suit the new 
handwriting), Sens. Oliver Ellsworth think proper for the interest and liberty was not done until 1891 . meaning not including cases of con­president of the bar association to and William Paterson were altogether of the people." It is not known stitutional dimension) and think it an­transfer power from Congress to the clean about what Congress' rights whether Mr. Marshall, sotto voce, tithetical to the plan of the Constitution courts. But it did not suit the framers, would continue to be. The Constitution added: "What do you think it meant, Over and over again, the Supreme for the courts." 
and with all dur respect, David Brink's had only recently been adopted. Ar­you ass?" -but certainly the entire Court declined to hear an appeal on the 
quarrel is with them, not with those in ticle I I, Section 2, provides: "The government of the United States basis of tts having been denied juris­We live in a time when Professor 
Congress who insist that that power Supreme Court shall have appellate proceeckd with exactly that under­diction in the 1789 act. For instance Herrick's forecast, made at the time (which should be used only with great sdiction. both as to law and fact, standing in mind. poor Mr. Plumer, sentenced to hand in Justice Brandeis was appointed, has care) is still alive. 
==IheLlbseLVer== 
Founded November j, 1966 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report­ed as. accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encour9..8ed. 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Cbief............................. .john McGrath 
Executive News F.ditor .................. . . Kelli Flint Sports Editor.............................. Skip Desjardin News £ditor............................. Dav1d Rickabaugh Photo Editor ....................................... .)ohn Ma_~or SMC l:.xecutit'e Editor........... Mary Agnes Carey. Editorials Editor................. ... Anthonv Walton !,MC News Editor......................Cathy Domanico Features t.duor ........................Gregory Swiercz 
Department Managers 
Business Manager .........................Rich Coppola Production Manager .................. Michael Monk Controller.............................................joe Mulflur Circulation Manager .............Tom MacLennan Advertising Manager ....................... Chcis Owen Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley 

Murdaygets closeshave 
See sights 
Freshmen travel to Chicago 
A
pproximately I70 freshman took part in a trip to Chicago sponsored by the Freshmen Year of Studies Saturday. 
The students traveled to the 
Museum ofScience and Industry, 
Karen McCloskey 
browsed through the stores ofthe 
Water Tower Place complex, took in 
the Art Institute ofChicago and 
were treated to a Greek restaurant. 
"It was one of the best times I've 
had all year,"stated Debbie Kopp. I 
thought it was a good change ofpace 
and I was happy to have the oppor­
tunity to meet other freshmen." 
Dr. Emil Hofman, Dean of the 
Feshmen Year ofStudies, stated 
similar success with the trip. The 
students, Hofman felt, received "the 
Soprano sings at ND Tuesday 
S
oprano Elsa Charleston will per­form at Notre Dame's Annenberg Auditorium Tues­day, Feb. l) at H p.m. in the University Artist Series. 
A native of Minnesota, Ms. Charleston has studied 
with Eleanor Lutton Gardner and Ronald Combs. In per­
li>rmance ofchamber music throughout the United 
States, she has appeared with such conductors as Lukas 
"oss, Gunther St·huller and Ralph Shapcy. Ms. Charles­
ton has toured in Europe and app<:ared on the HBC and 
West (;erman Radio. 
Critics say that :\1s. Charkston's remarkabk ability to 
communkate poetic and musical ideas has allowed her 
to excd not only in standard repertoire but especially 
in 20th century music. John Von IU1ein in the Chicago 
Tribune recently described her voice as "a miraculous 
vocal instrument." 
This is the second ofseven concerts on schedule for 
Univt·rsity Artist Series this s<:mester. Tickets are S2, S I 
for senior citizens, and arc available at the door. 
best intoduction to Chicago" the students would get, fo it was a good 
program. 

At the Museum ofScience and In­dustry, the students viewed many exhibits ranging from human 
development and anatomy to hydroelectricity. 
Next, students toured Water Tower Place, a seven-story shopping mall housing a variety of major stores in t Chicago. Among the many attractions was the glass elevator in the center of the building. 
An exhibit showing the art of 
Naples was the featured attraction of 
The Art Institute. Also ofinterest to 
the students were the many master­
pieces ofgreat artists including 
Picasso, El Greco and Rembrandt. 
Following these tours, students 
took advantage offree time to visit 
Student Body President Don Murday livens up the Mardi Gras by having his beard shaved for donations. The pie throwing preceded this time­lapsepicture ofthe shave. (photo by CherylErtelt) 
such attractions as the Sears Tower, the tallest building in the world and 
Rose Records, a giant record store. 
The high point of the evening was the dinner at Dianna's Opaa, a Greek restaurant. Served a special menu of Greek cuisine, students enjoyed not only the food but the folk music and dancing as well. During a special presentation, Petros Kogiones, 
owner of Dianna's, praised Dr. Hof­
man for his continued service to the 
students of Notre Dame. In turn, Dr. 
Hofman named Petros an "honorary 
Irishman" and presented him with a 
Notre Dame mug in appreciation. 
"The dinner at the Greek res­
taurant was the highlight ofthe trip. 
Petros (the owner) was a really 
great guy," stated AI Haverkamp. 

Monday, February 8, 1982 -page 7 
tates take over 
•
tn New Federalistn 
Y
ou've probably been wondering what the phrase the new federalism means. Everyone's talking and writing about it. 
The way I figure is that it means pretty soon now we won't be paying too much in taxes to the federal government in Washington, we'll be paying too much in taxes to the government in our state capitals. The whole problem ofhow best to waste our tax money will be turned over to state govenment. 
We needed a change and President Reagan is giving it to us. He's giving it to us good. The question now is, has he gone far enough? 
Ifthe president really wants to reduce the bureaucracy in Wash­ington and cut taxes, why doesn't he start with the most bureaueatic, tax-sp<:nding government department of them all, . the Defense Department? Why doesn't he turn over to the states the respon­sibility for their own defense, just as he proposes to turn over welfare programs to them? If it's good enough for food stamp~. why isn't it good Andy ~oonvy 
enough for defense? 

The Defense Department currently spends about 30 percent ofevery dollar we pay in taxes. At the Pentagon, they 
set the high bureaucratic standards that other government agencies can only hope to achieve.lfthe president closed down the Pentagon and turned over defense problems to te individual states, he could cut taxes practically in half and balance the budget almost im­mediately. 
As I see it, it would be a trade-offcomparable to the one the presi­dent proposes when he says the federal government will take over Medicaid if the states take over Welfare. The SO states would each handle their own def<:nse by forming their own army, navy and air force. The federal government. for its part ofthe bargain, would take on the responsiblity l()r the horse racing, numbers, and lotteries programs now being run by many states. 
As I see it, there would be about as many advantages to the people of this country in having each state defend itself as there arc in the states taking over in the areas Mr. Reagan suggests. 
An example: that comes to mind is what would happen in the case the Russians decided to declare war on us. The Russians would have to decide which states they wanted to t1ght, and they probably don't even know the names ofall SO states. 

... OK., Idaho. Idaho gets two misslesand 25jrwd stamps ... NEXT' 
Inevitably, there would be a migration ofpeoplefrom the States that provided the least protection in time of war to those states which have consistently provided service to thdr citizens. Alabama, Georgia and Tennessee spend a little more than half as much per citizen on education as such states as California, Michigan or Oregon, for example. Their defense outlays might be expected to be comparable:. Ifa State kgislaturc voted against raising the taxes it would need to buy its own battleship, its own fighter planes and its own nuclear warheads, that would ht· its own problem. Tht· federal government has coddled somt· states long t·nough. 
The suggestion has been madt• that tht· bus companit's may get rich under th<: president's plan because poor people will be leaving some states in droves and going to others wht·rc the welfare pay­ments are better. The situation could get worse if pcopk started leaving the states with inadequate dcfcnst·s to go live in statt·s with good armies. navies and air li>rn·s. 
If this happcnt·d, tht· answer would simply he mort· new federalism. Turn over the Customs Bureau to the states and let th<:m control their own immigraton rates. If Montaflll didn't want a lot of people from Kentucky, for exampk, it might establish a quota as low as 3S. Each state would have its own border police to prevent illegal entry from adjacent states. 
Finally, when the new federalism program is complete, we might 


rewrite the preamble to the Constitution. It would begin, "We, the People ofthe United States, in order to form a more impt·rfct·t union
Buy Observer Classifieds 
(c) 1982 BY THE CHICAGO TRIBUNE 
TRIBUNE COJ1PANY SYNDICATE, INC. 220F.AST42NDSTREET, NE~' YORK, N.Y. 10017 
~~l>rts=l=J=r=~=·e~··~~=S======~====================M=o=nd=a=y,=Fe=b=ru=~==s,=t=9s=2==p=~=e==s 
By The Observer and The AssociatedPress 
26 2-7 0-0 0 4
Jackson Bowie), 13:29. Penalties-NO, Chapman, (minor, Foster 33 3-5 3-3 0 1 9 interference) 7:43. NO, Ricci, (minor, interference) Daye 23 2-3 1-2 0 2 5 11:31. NO, Collard, (minor, checking from) 18:48.
Tickets for awayNotre Dame basketball games against 
Holton 21 0-3 0-0 2 0 0 Seton Hall and Michigan are available at the second floor ticket office Anderson 3 0-1 0-0 2 0 0 
SECOND PERIOD -Scoring -4, NO,in the ACC. The Seton Hall game will be held on Thursday, February Rothstein, 20, (Logan, Poulin), 2:24. 5, NO, BJork, 16,
200 21-46 6-8 18 8 48 FG Pet. .457 FT Pet. • .750. Team (Logan, McNamara), 14:23. 6, NO, Poulin, 24,
IS at the Meadowlands Arena in East Rutherford, N.J. Tickets for the 
Yesterday's Results rebounds -2. Turnovers -3. Assists -11 (Rothstein, Schmidt), 17:10. Penalties -LS.Michigan game, to be helc.i at the Silverdome in Pontiac, Mich., on UCLA 48, N.otre Dame 47 (Daye-4). Technicals-none. Keegan, (minor, checking from) 1 :30. NO, Schmidt, 
Sunday, March 7, are priced at S4, $6 and $8. -The Observer N.otre Dame (47) Halftime-31-30. Officials-Brown (Pac-10), (m1nor, charging) 5:48. LS, Guy, (minor, tripping) 
8:24. NO, Bowie, (minor, hooking) 13:34. LS,
M FG-A FT-A R F P Garibaldi (Pac-10), Bosone (Pac-10). A -
Dahlquist, (minor, tnpping) 15:29. NO, Ricci, (minor, 
Varner 40 4-6 1-1 5 1 9 10,244. 
roughing) 19:44. 

Spencer 11 1-2 2-2 4 4 4 Rucker 40 6-7 0-0 4 3 12The StudentUnioncontinues to sponsor ski trips to Paxson 40 6-11 0-2 3 1 12 
THIRD PERIOD-Scoring-Penalties-NO, Bow1e, (minor, tnppmg) 2:27. NO. Bow1e, (minor,
Swiss Valley every Saturday night during the winter months. Busses Mitchell 40 1-3 0-0 1 3 2 
hooking) 7:23. NO, Poulin, (minor, cross check1ng)
Rowan 29 4-8 0-0 2 2 8

depart from the Main Circle at 5 p.m. and return at li p.m. Bus 
12:13. LS, Sherman, (m1nor, holding) 17:38. 
200 22-37 3-5 19 14 47

tickets can be purchased in advance from the Student Union for 
FG Pet. .595. FT Pet. -.600. Team 
Shots on goal:

$2.50, or on the bus itselffor $3.00. Also, discounted lift tickets and rebounds -1. Turnovers -8. Assists -5 
Lake Supenor 4 14 7 -25ski rental are available -The Observer (Paxson-3). Technicals-none. ­
Saturday's Game 
Notre Dame 5, Lake Superior 1 Notre Dame 10 10 9 29 
UCLA(48) 

Lake Supenor 1 0 0 -1 Goaltenders-Lake Superior, Dyck. Notre Dame, M FG-A FT-A R F p Notre Dame 2 3 0 -5 McNamara. A-2,195 Sanders 40 9-14 2-2 8 1 20 FIRST PERIOD -Scoring -1, LS, Mulholland, Fields 38 2-5 0-1 6 2 4 17, (Sherman, Keegan), 2:30. 2, NO, BJOrk, 15,
Cross-country ski rental is available weekends to Gray 16 3-8 0-0 0 1 6 (unassisted), 9:15. 3, NO, Higgins, 7, (Schmidt, Sunday's Game
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. For details, call239-5IOO.­
Notre Dame 5, Lake Superior 1 The Observer Lake Supenor 1 0 0 -1 NotreDame 2 3 0 -5
Boi lerlllakers win, 
FIRST PERIOD-Scoring -1, NO, Bjork, 17, (Bowie, Bellomy), 7:10. 2, LS, Keegan, 12, 
(Mulholland, Vetere), 8:11. 3, NO, Logan, 13, (Schmidt, Rothste1n), 11:00. Penalties -LS, 
SaintMary's basketballteam picked up a win and a 
loss at the Hanover Basketball Tournament this weekend. The 
(;opherslose ninth 
Keegan, (minor, high sticking) 2:33. LS, Dahlquist,Belles, now 7-I0, lost to Ashland College in the first round, but came (minor, tripping) 10:35. NO, BJork, (minor,slash1ng) 
12:30. NO, Regan, (m1nor, hookmg) 16:21. NO,
back to take the consolation game wit an II-point victory over Cen­
MADISON, Wis. (AP)-Keith Ed­game of the season" despite the fact Bowie, (minor, roughing) 16:47. LS, Gess, (minor,
ter of Kentucky. Anne Armstrong and Mary Pat Sitlington captured rough1ng) 16:47.
monson couldn't miss early in the that it was Wisconsin's ninth straightth all-tounament honors for the Belles. THe team will be at home 
loss. tonight to face visiting DePauw University in a 6 p.m. contest. -The SECOND PERIOD -Scoring -4, NO, 
second half as he connected on 10 

straight shots and Purdue surged to a "You've got to win it if you are 
Rothstein, 21, (Bowie, Schmidt), 6:36. 5, NO , Luc1a, 55-46 victory over Wisconsin in Big going to get into any kind ofplayoff," 3, (Doman), 11:56. 6, NO, Bellomy, 5, (Parsons, he said. BJork), 14:05. Penalties -NO, BJork, (minor, Inter­
Observer 
Ten basketball Saturday. 

ference) 1:46. NO, Bow1e, (minor, tnpp1ng) 3:04. LS,Edmonson, who entered the game Keady said 7-foot center Joe Gess, (minor, hook1ng) 6:08. NO, Collard, (minor, with a 20.6-point average, tallied I5 Gampfer did not start the game for holding) 7:16. LS. Guy, (m1nor, hooking) 9:07. NO,Anyone interestedin playing junior varsity lacrosse Poulin, (minor, cross checking) 17:01. LS, Sherman.
of the Boilermakers' first I9 points the Boilermakers because he was (minor, charging) 19:21.
contact Rich O'Leary at 239-4563 or at C-2 at the ACC before Wed­
after the intermission as they late for the bus to the game.
nesday. -The Observer 

overcame a I 7 -I4 deficit to go ahead "No discipline," the coach said. THIRD PERIOD-Scoring-None. Penalties­to go ahead 33-27 with 8:04 left in Wisconsin Coach Bill Cofield said NO, Ricci, (minor, charging) 15:59. NO, Chapman, (minor, tripping) 18:20.
the game. was happy with the manner in which "I was very happy with the way I his young players had managed to
In interhall hockey tonight Off-Campus takes on Shots on goal:
shot," he said. "The team did an ex­lead during the first half 
Grace at I 0: I5 p.m. and Stanford faces Flanner at II:30 p.m. -The Lake Superior 12 5 8 -25
cellent job ofsetting picks for me." "I think the kids basically showed 
Notre Dame 5 13 10 -28
Observer 

Purdue Coach Gene Keady said he good patience," he said. "Purdue did Goaltenders-Lake Superior, Dyck. Notre Dame, McNamara. A -1,968
considered the contest "a pivotal not run over us the way they did at Purdue." 
The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However, classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid, 
either in person or through the mail. 
Classifieds 
Tomorrow is Liz Ellery's 20th. Happy POETS CLUB" HAPPY HOUR Fnday at LOST: pa1r of brown, plastic-framed Need ride to Cincinnati Feb. 12-14. Call Birthday to o.ur upstairs roomie. Love. T1 5:00 in Dillon Pub. Featurieg m1xed drink PARTY PAUL, WHERE WERE YOU

NOTICES 

glasses,poss1bly in brown slip-in case Casey at 6256. and2 WHEN THE HUMP WAS AT HAND?
special. ~ll.;v.el.cl).mfj, ............................. . 
With broken pocket clip. If found, please QUES. 2: WHERE WILL THE HUMP
SUSAN H. -This personal is JUSt to let
bring to lost and found 1n Adm1n or call Need 1 DEPAUL GA, will Give up my stud. LIVE NEXT WED. NITE? QUES. 3: WILL
SHOW YOUR LADY YOU CARE WITH A SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS AP­you know I haven't forgotten·· that I 
BOUQUET OF FLOWERS DELIVERED t229. t1x lor N.C. St., Fordham and N. Iowa. PLICATION DEADLINE Fnday, February YANK DO IT? (ALIAS HANK
promised no more personals. 
EVERY WEDNESDAY FOR 4 WEEKS. Tony 239-6328 (before 5) 277-3067 (after 5 Center for Expenent1al Learning ALAKOWSKI)
ZUKEFound. Raincoat at recent Off-Campus

WEDNESDAY'S FLOWERS. 289-1211. 5) P.S.-What was that nickname agam? I VALENTINE'S DAY IS CLOSE BY To anyone who cares: ll's not the end, It's JAMIE K., YOU'RE MORE FUN THAN
party, Call 289-1138 to 1dent1fy. 

can hear the hogs stampeding ... 
NEED RIDE TO DETROIT FOR 
JUSt intermission. To those who don't: You HUMANS SHOULD BE ALLOWED,LOST: A PAIR OF BLUE MIRRORED
SAVE MONEY ON USED BOOKS AT WEEKEND OF 3'o12-14. CALL RUSS AT won't have Rich Collis to kick around any Fran,
NEW WAVE SUNGLASSES IN NORTH
PANDORA'S. 3&o OFF USED BOOKS IN 3373. more. (At least lor one semester.) Have a great 21st! We love you! KIDNAPPED-6:30
DINING HALL. CONTACT JASON 8659 

THE STORE DURING HAPPY HOUR Ter, Jean, Ev THANKS PANCAKE HOUSE GANG: EACH FRIDAY FROM 3-6. USED Soc1alism has 9 letters, not four. 7:30 KAREN (ROOMIE) STEVE, ELLEN
FOUND. Expens1ve ball-po1nt pen. 
room 600 library MICH, BARB, ANN, BETSY, BOOKS ARE 5&o OFF AND NEW Descnbe it and tell me where you lost 1t­
BOOKS ARE 2&o OFF. OPEN WEEK­GrapefrUits npen Indoors .. MAURA, JANE, SALLY, CAROL D. 
it's yours!! Ill Phone 272-7282. 

For run in the sack, call REEN REEN THE BETH, MARIANNE, CAROL C. DORA'S BOOKS, 937 SOUTH BEND ·fOR SALE Pan Far pervades .. 
DAYS 11-6, WEEKENDS 10-5. PAN· Rabbits love my burrow... 
SEX MACHINE-X6969 (Now, who makes FOR MAKING 22 SO GREATII HOPE LOST: 3 KEYS ON GREEN PLASTIC animal no1ses in the back seat?) YOU ALL GOT A'S ON YOUR PLANT­
AVENUE, 233-2342. Torches burn out ... ­
.......................... KEYCHAIN. CALL RON 8270 
MORPHIEmergency Window escapes...

OVERSEAS JOBS -Summe'l'oyear 
Demps, Happy birthday to the prepp1est LOVE YOU ALL, -LISAround. Europe, S. Amer.. Australia, Asia. FOUND ONE ROUND BASKETBALL. IT USED & OUT-PRINT BOOKS bought, Rac1n1ans break beds ..
wench from Hinsdale. May the head­
All fields. $500-$1200 monthly. Sightsee­WAS FOUND IN THE ACC PIT TUES­sold, searched. ERASMUS BOOKS. Penetrating peeps ...
bands of your life be pink and green. En­
mg. Free info. Write IJC, Box 52-IN4, DAY NIGHT AROUND 9 PM. CLAIM AT Tues-Sunday, 12-6.1027E. Wayne(One These cryptic comments are mere
JOY your 21st andre-member-only a short To the most urbane, chivalrous, In­Corona Del Mar. CA 9262~:. THE OBSERVER OFFICE. ASK FOR 
block south of Eddy-Jefferson Intersec­teasers...
t1me rema1ns for aqwnng that d1amond souciant, piquant, jocose, jocular,
-No-Doz the Gossip LAOTIAN LADY WANTS PART-TIME DIANE OR WHOMEVER. tion.) 
ring. Love, Mrs. Dav1d Intrigue audacious and convlvlous bunch ol CLEANING, CARE OF CHILDREN OR 
wlldsklbutfs

Portable Cassette Deck, PIONEER SK­LOST: a THERMODYNAMICS book 1nDISABLED CAN TAKE BUS. EX­The Demps We Love You! Happy 21st! !I 
PERIENCED 289-1687 Eng. Building on Tuesday. If found, 31, $200, PH-1407. WINDSURFING IS PRIMO!!! 
Your roomies 
please call M1ke at 8657. 
GUllTV PARTYBLACK CULTURAL ARTS FESTIVAL 

Lonely little boy desperately needs a 1982 
One Week till Hulley returns -Are you Realism In an insanely Idealistic com­
LOST: Brown tweed wool scarf at NO­male compamon. Call Volunteer
ready Patty? I'll be back on Sunday in munityCULTURAL DIMENSIONS" 
Maine basketball game in section 1 08 of Serv1ces, 7308, for more info. 
plenty of t1me for some ant1cs. Sorry Sean Faircloth, Student Body Presi­FEBRUARY 7-MARCH 6 
the bleachers. If found please call Ross at TICKETS 
though-you can't break my bed. dentLERONE BENNETT, JR SENIOR 
1898. M.lshaug, EDITOR EBONY MAGAZINE 
Paul McGinn, Student Body Vice
Hope your test and day went well. Your THE SHAPING OF BLACK AMERICA" 
WANTED -lor domestic abuse-JEFF President
Phone Caller 7 P M. FEB 7 LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
BESCHER. Please turn this brutal WRITE-IN CANDIDATES 
FOR RENT WANTED: TWO NORTH CAROLINA cnmmal in before others lose their noses. "Verltas vlnclt pecunlam" STATE GA'S CALL X8738 . 
AND YOU THOUGHT ALL WE COULD 
DO WAS DANCE To our Favo,te Guys: Jim, Bnan. and
Janet, Where are you? Don't you ever eat Lll' Red Haired Girl:
POETIC MUSICAL Pete. The Grotto's for prayer It's a bad 
7 PM. FEB 10 ANNENBERG FURNISHED HOMES CLOSE TO NO NEED SIX GA's FOR NC STATE. 1n the d1nmg hall anymore? If so when and See you soon. Hope the th~rsty whale
place to meet. No matter what you do, 
AUDITORIUM FOR NEXl; SCHOOL YEAR. 277-3604. PLEASE CALL JENNY 284-4507 where? How about that rather strange suits you. 
You'll never top that, so don't even trylroommate -is she st1ll1n bed? Or where 
POETESS SONIA SANCHEZ signed Robin, Linda and Pat!!! The Kumquat 
FURNISHED HOME AVAILABLE NOW. URGENT need many N C STATE t1x call 1s Ela1ne or Tracy or Chris? I'm lost with­DRAMATIC READING AND DIALOGUE 277-3604. 1730 out your weekly abuse. Remember only 
7 P.M. FEB 11 LIBRARY AUDITORIUM Keri, There is not another g~rl 1n s1ght.
two weeks till Wabash comes up -Ith1nk
BCAF 1982 Who can hold me as t1ght. Although we I miss the peak sensation .. 
Efficiency apt, pnvate enterance 1OOmo. we better hide out now. A disliker of FIJI's 
WITH MORE TO COME may fight, I love you w1th all my m1ght. For I took the big vacation. CHECK IT OUTI!! you w1ll always be, The nght one lor me. SINCE YOU'RE GONE Ill
close to n.d. Also 3 bed house 1 "o2 bath BILL HENNESSEY-Your drum playing call 255-8505 Love Stncken, made the show! Thanks aga1n! Elise, El-Democratic Soc1alists meet1ng 7:30 Sun­
M1ke day in Am. 600 library Notre Dame Ave Apts has apartments We graciously thank you lor your Inces­• len and De1dre.P.S. We owe you a p1zza.
PERSONALS 
P S I MISS YOU! available for next school year Call 234-
sant maundenng for your dishonest 
IS THE SIXTH FLOOR GOING TO GET
Monica, Who guards the gate? 6647 euchre playmg (yes, you, T H.) lor
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, RACIN JASON, Who 1s the STUD ol301 Dillon? WITH LOVE BEVERLEE. 
PLASTERED TONIGHT!!! A PREMINI­your gruesome but enterta1mng portent of TION BY PARTY DAVE" 
Four and live bedroom houses are The axe man strikes again lor g1v1ng us h1gh blood pressure over the case of
available lor next school year. Call 234-WSND celebrates its 35th birthday on N.D. g~rls! Come see J1m Kane finally
Jim Giblin: Whalever happened to the February 9! L1sten lor the upcom1ng reach puberty -he s go1ng to be twenty
\LOST/FOUND \ 
9364. Nancy Humbarger. the m1ss1ng keys for gett1ng us too 
Rochester Surv1val Party? We Bos­h1gh to deal w1th reality more often than
BIRTHDAY BONANZA on AM-64!!! tomorrow! 321 Howard.
tonians suffered through a Y.M.C.A men­
STUDENT RENTALS: 2 SIX BEDROOM not and lorincludingandmore impor­Lost: women's Sieko quartz watch lost be­tal ward and we want a party! We're 
tantly tolerating the three cutest, fun­
tween Madeleva and Regina. Call Jodi HOUSES NEXT DOOR TO EACH How would YOU sound after 35 years??? Tomorrow Jimmy Kane turns 20. Call
getting anxious! 3 The Greyhound Keg niest, most most adorable, lun &
4714 SMC OTHER. FULLY CARPETED, Listen Ia the best rock plus news, sports, 8252 to wish h1m a happy one. A call from 
Keepers 

exciting (should we continue?) sweet,FIREPLACE AND LOFT. CALL 272­
and campus events-all on AM-64!!! Jane Trusela would make thts young kind & sensitive, enigmatic,
LOST: DARK BLUE AMITY BEACH 7767, 232-4057, 272-2720. Stud's day GREAT!
KRB. 3 AM MASS IN THE PIT? OR 
quixotic ... Suzie Chapsticks ever! We SHOULD THE S BE A.N H? HOW
WALLET ON MONDAY THE 25TH The low life, a cultural novelty .. call Ph1l 
love you to deathl So what II you all SACRELIGIOUS! THE 'N'S SOMEWHERE BETWEEN HAYS­Summer anlloor 82-83, 4 bdrm hse, near at 1213. 
To the Teddy Bear who l1ves 1n the Bass­received a D-mlnus on our ques­
campus, lurn., excel cond., call287-5361 TANT IRREPLACEABLES INSIDE. IF after6p.m. You·re 1 week from H1dden Hearts 2' The Shy, S1lent Type. 
HEALY AND THE ACC. MANY IMPOR­men! of Pangborn. Thanx lor being there! 
tionaire?Thanks for everything! AL HANK BELIEVES IN REALISTIC
Show up m costumes only. Who knows J.T.S.
FOUND, PLEASE CONTACT JIM AT P.S. Good Teddy Bears are hard to come
GOALS, COOPERATION NOT AN­
X1523. HELP! Summer Sublettors Wanted! 2 bdrm apt. what may be revealed? by. butthey make good listeners. OUiet as P.S. We've already commenced pack­
TAGONISTIC RHETORIC, AL HANK
in Hickory Village. If Interested, call Carol ing for our next snowy excursion, so 
~ Stren, You Say???? LOST: Red Prayer Book Christian FOR STUDENT SENATE, NORTH
or Michele at 272-9603 HELLO TO ALL THE BEAUTIFUL prepare yourselves! WOMEN ON 3RD FLOOR REGINA 
QUAD DIST.2, VOTE FEB. 8 
Prayer-L1turgy of the Hours In Sacred Dear Anonymous Letter-wnter, l"m Heart, Sat Nite "o30. If found Please call confused. Please tdenttfy yourself 
SOUTH. WHEN ARE WE GOING TO Little red-headed girl PLAY SNOW FOOTBALL?? love, haze's Coun11ng the days... Oh, life seems too
HELP!CALL 1-202-224-3121 (U.S.
AI, 1384. Pat from Keenan 
CONGRESS) ASK FOR YOUR
brother short. but at t1mes like th1s. 1ts as 1f n w111 CONGRESSMAN S OFFICE BY NAME 
WANTED 

never hurry. Be patient. 1t"s not TER­Lost: Gold Celtic (Irish) cross, probab­WILL HIM TO VOTE FOR STUDDS­G1na.
Hey P1p! Thanks lor the t1x -cuz you are MINAL See you there ly at SMC, much esentimental value. 
WANTED: 1 housemate for 6 bedroom HARKIN AMENDMENT ELIMINATING It happens to lots of people Please call Eileen at 284-4602. 
the most beaut1full th1ng 1n my life! 
house. 717 St. Lou1s Ave. Call 232-3237. MILITARY AID TO EL SALVADOR Hedv1g s Dad 

The Kumquat REWARDIll 

---~----­
The Observer -Sports Monday, February 8, 1982 -page 9 
Hoosiers hand Ha"rkeyes favor 
ByJOE MOOSHIL the seill>on at Minnesota. been, it'll be tough to catch them," AssociatedPress Previously, Iowa won by one said Kellogg. "They'll hav~:: to lose point at Michigan State and at three or four games and I can't see 
Iowa's fifth-ranked Hawkeyes. get­Northwestern. The Hawkeyes lead that happening_" ting a big assist from Indiana, the the Big Ten in defense, play a team Iowa plays four of its next six defending NCAA champions, now concept game and do not haw _min· games at home and the Hawkeyes hold a commanding lead in the Big dividual scorer among the top IS in finish tht: season on tht: road at Il­Ten basketball race but Minnesota the conference. linois and Purdut:. By that time, the Coach Jim Dutcher isn't ready to Freshman Michael Payne, who has Hawk~::yes could have the title toss in the towel. been hobbled by a foot injury, led clinched. 
While Iowa and Ohio State were the Hawkeyes with 25 points. It was playing to form Saturday night with the top individual production hy an Freshman U T we Blab scored 18 Iowa winning 69-65 in overtime, of Iowa player this season. points and grabbed eight rebounds course, Indiana surprised Minnesota Payne hit his first eight shuts in in Indiana's victory at Minnesota. 
58·55. This gave the Hawkeyes a the second half and his free lhrow More important, the 7-2 Blab held 7· two-game lead with eight games to with 40 seconds w play in regula­3 Randy Breuer to nine points, play. tion forced the ovenime. 1£ was the breaking Breuer's string of25 games "This loss might have killed Min· sixth time Ohio State has been in­in double figures. nesota," said Indiana Coach Bobby volved in an ovenime contest, Thad Garner scored 19 points as Knight. "Beating Iowa is tough on breaking he previous BigTen record Michigan avenged a previous 79·61 
anybody and I think Minnesota ab­offive shared by Michigan and Mich­loss at lllinois; Keith Edmonson solutely had to win this game." igan State. scored 29 points, 23 in the second Dutcher, speaking softly, Clark Kellogg led Ohio Stat~:: with half, to lead Purdue past Wisconsin, disagreed with Knight and said 22 points and all but conceded the and Nonhwestern came back from a 
"With eight games left, a lot could title to Iowa. 17-point deficit to defeat Michigan happen." "lf they play as well as they havt: State. Iowa now has a 9·1 record in the Big Ten with Minnesota second at 7­
3. Illinois suffered a surprising 58·53 

Allison victorious 
setback at Michigan to drop into a three-way tie for third place with In· diana and Purdue. 
Purdue kept alive its hopes with a 55-46 victory at Wisconsin and Northwestern snapped a six-game 

;· at Busch Classic Race 
DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. (AP) -season, holding off a challenge from
losing streak with a 48-43 comeback 

Bobby Allison came from deep in Neil Bonnett's Ford Thunderbird on
triumph over Michigan State. 

the 13-car fidd yesterday to win the the last lap to win by half a car
Iowa's only loss came earlier in 

SI90,000 Busch Clash at Daytona length. International Speedway. 
Allison, a 4 3-year-old veteran Allison. who started from tht: I 2th from Hueytown, Ala, held off the position, darted and sped his way challengers. Bonnett was right be­through the pack to claim the lead hind the lea(Jer when defending on the fifth lap around the 2. 5-mile, Busch Clash champion Darrell
Satnpson leads Virginia over Tech 
highbanked Daytona oval. Waltrip, on the inside of the track, He kept his Buick Regal on top the tapped the left rear of Bonnett's car ROANOKE, Va. (AP) -Ralph ranked Cavahers to an 80-66 college the Cavaliers, who won their I Oth rest of the 20-lap, 50-mile dash for and nearly took tht:m both of the basketball triumph over Virginia straight game and bettered their pole position winners from the 1981 race.
Sampson, Virginia's 7-foot-4 center, 
Tech. overall record to 22·1. NASCAR G-rand National stock car scored 25 points, pulled down 21 
Freshman Tim Mullen added 1.3 =============================================· 
rebounds and blocked seven shots Virginia Tech, losing to Virginia
points, freshman Jimmy Miller ll. 
for the seventh straight time, fell to 

Saturday night to lead the third-and sophomore Othell Wilson I 0 for I 5-5 on the season. Mickey Hardy led the Hokies with 20 points with ' ' ' UCLA Dale Solomon contributing 16 and JeffSchneider 12. 
continuedfrom page 12 
posure. These kids have a lot to be proud of."
...Fencers 
The Cavaliers, leading by 33·24 at they could drive on UCLA," said IRISJ-1 ITEMS -Tim Andrt:t: intermission, broke tht· gam~:: open Phelps. "Rowan did the right thing in 
remains in the hospital. Doctors early in the second half. that situation, but there were -just have yet to diagnose the cause ofhi!>
l'he ln~n aud ::.aint Mary's women
ccmtinuedjrom page 12 too many hands in there to swat it 
I 0 ~-degree tt:mperature . . . Notredid not fare as well against the Tar­away." 
Dame shot 60 percent from tlwtars, the former losing 8-1 and the
llarstrom recorded ~::qual scort:s as Mullen, Wilson andjeffjones each Farmer shook his head at the tloor, hitting two-third!> ofits secondlattt:r 9·0. 
the Irish ept:e team posted a dt:cisivt: popped in medium-range jumpers thought ofa Rowan layup that never half shots ... The Irish have yet toThe men pushed their spotless
6-3 edge in the wt:apon. to open the second half, boosting materialized. 
win on the road ... Despite official season record to 17·0 on Saturday
Yt:t the toil squad, led by Marc Virginia to a 15-point advantage, 39· "Wt: played a tight zone," he said. 
attendance figures of 10,244, Pauley with fivt: wins over Detroit ( 19-8), 
Dt:Jong (2·1 ),Jaime Colley-Capo (2· 24, with 17:46 to play. "All we gave them was an outside 
Pavilion was not thr~::e-quarters
Cleveland State (20-7), Windsor
I )and Jim Thompson( 1·2)wasalso shot on the weak side. As it turned full . . . Phelps told the press his( 19-8), Case Western Reserve (24­
instrumental in th<.· Irish win. out, Rowan tried to musck inside ­team still has a shot at the NIT, espe~"You havt: to credit the foil team 3) and Air Force ( 18·9). Tht: spread reached 20 points at but we just had too many bodies cially ifthey beat DePaul ... MichaelBoth women's teams defeated 59·39 with 10:43 left on a Sampson
for a lot of our success as wdl," there." 
Bolton, who scort:d 14 pointsDeCicco commented. "Wayne State Detroit, Cleveland State and Case free throw. Virginia's largest margin So once again, tht: Irish came up against the Irish in Dt:cember, wentWestern Reserve, while losing to Air was 26, the last time at 80·54 with
won the first two bouts in foil and short. 
scoreless in just over 20 minutt:s ofForce. 2: l 5 remaining. The Hokies scored
our foil squad maintained their com­"We can walk out ofhert: with our action ... Paxson's shot at the final posure to clinch five of the last The six wins over the weck~::nd 12 straight points in the final two heads high," said Phelps. "There's no buzzer was too late, and would not
pushed the mt:n's winning strt:ak to minutes.
seven. such thing as a moral victory. But we have counted had it gone in.
22 meets dating back to last season. 
"It was an all-out team effort -playt:d with confidence and com­
··-"'~-·~""",;.,-,,_: 
john Paxson and the rest ofthe Irish squad camejust one basket short yesterday as the Bruins ofUClA defeated them 48-47. See Skip Desjardin's story on page 12. (Photo byjohn Macor) 
Intrastate rivalry 
you could tell it in the team's faces when Andy clinched the match." 
Friday night's victory over the Tanars extended Notre Dame's ~::dgt: in the all-tim~:: series to 23-10 and avenged the losses Notre Dame has suffered at the hands of Wayne Stat~:: in the past two seasons. The Tartars and Irish have each won two national championships in the last five years. 
"It was a great moment -the team picked up tht: momentum they net:ded despite their slow start and just would not quit," DeCicco said. 
.• a:aucss:= •=mliaa;MII iiSU:E~ 
I 
Rocco's f-lair Styling i 
. 531 N. Michigan St.J I South Bend I Phone-233-4957 
s
£ _,_
! ..,.. 
: l.u..,.._.••••••uau••u•u•••u••••....uaat...........J 

The Best TRAVEL SPECIALS Are Available on Campus! 
AIR FARE SPECIALS VACATION SPECIALS From Chicago To: Bahamas 
Tampa or W. Palm Beach From·$ 79.00 o.w. Nassau-1 week From · $499.00 per person Miami-Ft. Lauderdale 
double occupancy 

..
Freeport-1 week From · $387.00 per person double occupancy 
Orlando From· 99.00 o.w. 
San Francisco From· 109.00 o.w. Los Angeles From· 99.00 o.w. Caribbean San Diego From-119.00 o.w. Jamaica-St. Maarten-Aruba· 
Long Beach From· 129.00 o.w. St. Kitts-Santo Domingo From · $429.00 per person Kansas City From· 59.00 o.w. double occupancy Wichita From· 79.00 o.w. 
Mexico
New York From· 159.00 R.T. 
Acapulco-Cancun-Cozumel·Boston From· 188.00 R.T. 
Mazatlan-Puerto Vallarta From -$459.00 per personSt. Louis From· 59.00 o.w. 
double occupancy 

Minneapolis From· 89.00 o.w. 
Fares are sub1ect to availability. time and day of travel. Air fares are Includes: Round trip air fare from Chicago· hotel accommo­subject to change at any time. Ticket purchase guarantees fare. dations and airport transfers. 
AMTRAK SPECIALS 
Effective now thru April 1, 1982: Purchase a one way fare of ~source $45.00 or more, get the return for only $10.00. Children '12 of ST. MARY'S NOTRE DAME 
..:Travel

adult fare. 284-5606 239-7080 
---, -~: -,· 
r 
~--------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer -Sports 

ByALGNOZA 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame track team was extremely busy over the weekend. It takes alot of work, you see, to shake off the .burden of local anonymity and to achieve national notoriety. On Saturday night the Irish did ju~t that. 
At the Knights of Columbus In· vitational Track Meet in Cleveland, the Irish let it be known that track is alive and well in Siberia -errr excuse me -South Bend. 
The Irish were led by the first 
,. place finish of the two mile relay team, composed ofTim Cannon, jim Tyler, Tim McCauley, and Jim Moyar. It was Moyar who paved the way with an outrageous split of 1:52. Not to be outdone, John McCloughan continued with his fine form in registering a fourth place finish in the 60 yard high hurdles. McCloughan was in with some very fast company. The event was won by Renaldo Nehemiah in a time just .04 offthe world record. 
In the 55-meter dash, Greg Bell 
managed to pull out a sixth place 
finish in a fidd that included world 
class sprinters Steve Riddick and 
Stanley Floyd. Floyd won the event 
with a world record time of6.1 0. 
Sounds impessive, doesn't it? ,Ahh, 
but there's more 

The surprises contin_1,1~d as Notre Dame finished second in the 1,600 metet relay. The quartet of Bill Ribera, Steve D:tiabis, jacques Eady, and Mitch Van Eyken finishe t d right behind winner Ohio University. 
The Irish participated in Saturday night's meet after waltzing to victory over Marquette the pevious night. In that meet Notre Dame won 14 out of 15 events in posting a 103-28 win over the wariors. 
Eady and Van Eyken each produced two firsts for the Irish. Eady won the triple jump and and ran on the victorious mile relay team. Van Eyken also ran the mile relay and led the Irish to a sweep in the 300-yard run. 
The Irish also swept both the pole 

-------------------, 
After :your last exam, wbat toughquestions will you still be facing? 
.. 
W don't have your answers. But we'll listen to your questions, 
share some of our own about who we want to become and where we want to journey. For anyone who has considered the path of priesthood, the Holy Cross Fathers' One-Year Candidate Program provides an opportunity to ask and explore the possibilities in community. 
II 
Cont•ct: 
Rev. Andre Leveille, C.S.C. 
Vocation Director Box 541 
Notre Dllme, IN 46556 
(219) 239-6385 



vault, won by Paul Doyle, and the 60-yard dash won by Bell. 
With Irish track blowouts coming 
about as often as pesky snowstorms, 
maybe the Irish should make things 
official. They are a track power. On 
Friday night Marquette found that 
out. On Saturday so did the rest of 
the track world. 

Monday, February 8, 1982 -page I 0 
Lendl beats McEnroe 
in Molson Tourney 
TORONTO (AP) -Czechos­lovakian Ivan Lend! edged john McEnroe, the world's No.I player, 7­5, 3-6, 7-6, 7-5 Sunday to win the 5350,000 Molson Tennis Challenge. 
Lendl, ranked second internation­ally, earned Sl25,000 for his victory in the eight-man, round-robin tournament, while McEnroe, who lost to Vitas Gerulaitis in the final · here last year, received 575,000. 
Lendl, who swept Gerulaitis 6-2, 
6-0 in the semifinals Saturday, used a 
variety of passing shots to beat 
McEnroe, who defeated Peter 
McNamara of Australia 6-2, 6-4 to 
earn the final berth. 
Both players served well in the 
three-hour, 15-minute match that 
had only three service breaks and 
excited 13,400 fans with its high 
level ofplay. 
The turning point in the match was the tiebreaker in the third set when Lendl stormed back from a 6-3 deficit with five straight points to take the set. McEnroe had built up his advantage with three aces, but Lendl chipped away at the lead with a series of passing shots -a back­hand winner down the line, another crosscourt and a forehand down the line. 
"After the aces, I said 'OK, let's go. 
down the line,"' said Lendl, describ­
ing his strategy in the tiebreaker. 
(McEnroe) was so surprised by that, 
that he missed the shots." 
Everv service break in the match 
determined a set. 

Lend!, who fired 1 7 aces during the match, started strongly in the first set and eventually took McEnroe's serve in the 11th game. McEnroe, with 16 aces overall, hit two consecutive double faults -he had five in the match -and further buried himselfwith a missed volley. 
Lend! capitalized on this by for­cing McEnroe into a missed smash to take a 6-5 lead, and he served out the set. 
In the second set, McEnroe fought from a love-40 deficit in the fourth game -with the help of a deftly placed drop shot from the back of the court and a backhand cross­court winner -to break Lendl's serve. Holding a 3·1 lead, both players served out the set in 
McEnroe's favor. 

After the third-set tiebreaker, 
both players breezed through their 
first two service games. 

McEnroe escaped a service break in the fifth game when he nailed two straight aces. But he wasn't as lucky in the 1 1 th game when he fell be­hind on his serve due to a combina­tion of unforced and forced errors. Lend) finished off the break ofserve with a sizzling forehand cross-court winner. 
McEnroe almost broke back in the 
12th game when he held double­
break point after similar errors by 
Lend!. However, an ace cancelled 
McEnroe's last break point and after 
holding match point twice, Lend! 
won the match when a McEnroe vol­
ley went long. 
Women 's tennis 

Fairbank in Avon quarterfinals 
DETROIT (AP) Unseeded Top-seeded Andrea jaeger was Rosalyn Fairbank ofSouth Africa up· 
scheduled to play No. 5 Anne Smith set No. 4 Virginia Ruzici of Romania 
and third-seeded Wendy Turnbull of 2-6, 6-4, 6-0 Friday and advanced to the semifinals of the $1 50,000 Avon 
Australia was to face unseeded Championships of Detroit. 
countrywoman Dianne Fromholtz in other quarterfinal matches Friday night. 
Second-seeded Mirna Jausovec of Yugoslavia defeated Mary Lou The 21-year-old Fairbank had a 
Piatek, the No. 6 seed, 7-5, 6-2 in an­slow start in her first set against other quarterfinal tennis match at Ruzici, but then came on strong. CoboArena. "I felt I would win," Fairbank said. 
,Streak
' ' 
continuedfrom page 12 
one opportunity. Miami's Mary Ann Myers, after dribbling out 15 seconds, then iced the game with a pair offree throws. 
"We've been guilty of showing a lack of heart over the past few games," said Irish Coach Mary DiS­tanislao afterward, "but I can't fault most of the people on the floor today for that. We just failed our in· telligence test. 
"We were successful at certain things," she said. "We shut down their big girl ( 6-5 Deb Grushon, who was limited to 1-of·t 1 shooting and four points) and we were taking them out of any sort of offensive continuity. 
"However," DiStanislao added, "we were unsuccessful in getting the ball inside and in taking ad· vantage of the defensive com­promises that we could have put Miami into. We weren't patient enough to get the mismatches they were giving us inside by not switch· ing." 
Kaiser, playing despite tendonitis in her foot, scored I4 points, 10 in the first half, shooting seven of nine from the floor to lead Notre Dame scorers. 
Dougherty added 13 and Mary Beth Schueth, the game's leading rebounder with 15, had 11, despite hitting only four-of-1 5 field goal at· tempts. 

Bates finished with I 0 points and 10 rebounds. Myers led the Redskins in scoring, just as she has done all season. The senior native of Swannanoa, N.C., one of only three non-Ohio natives on the Miami ros­ter, scored 12 first-half points, and finished with I 7, despite playing most of the second half with four fouls. 
Kris Livingston, Carol Bruning and Tonya Stubbs all added I 0 for Miami. 
Bruning had -a big bucket down the stretch, hitting a jumper from the baseline with just over two minutes left in-the game, and less than five seconds remaining on the shot clock. 
At the time, the Redskin lead was only one. 
Mary Beth Schueth's 1 7 points led all Notre Dame scorers in Friday's win over Mount St. joseph's, but it was Jenny Klauke who stole the spotlight. 
Klauke turned in her best perfor­mance since returning from a four­month layoff imposed by a stress fracture in her leg. A native of Glen­view, Ill., Klauke scored 14 points, I 0 in the first half while the game 
"I just had to stop maJang mistakes." Ruzici said she was overconfident after the first set. 
"That can be dangerous, as you can see," Ruzici said. 
Jausovec, 25, a quarterfinalist at Wimbledon last year, simply wore 
down Piatek, who appeared ex­hausted during the second set. "My tennis has been improving and I felt strong," jausovec said. 
was still close, on six ofeight shoot­ing from the floor, and two for two at the free throw line. 
Klauke also had four rebounds and one steal in 23 minutes of ac­tion, by far her longest stint of the year. 
IRISH ITEMS -Despite Friday evening's 16-point win over Mount St. joseph, the weekend swing into southern Ohio got off to a less-than­perfect beginning. The Irish should have feared the worst after hearing their bus driver ask upon leaving the ACC parking lot Friday morning, "Where are we going?" He wasn't kidding ... Three times between College Corner, Ohio, near Oxford, where the team was staying, and Mount St. Joseph's, located on the fringes of Cincinnati, the driver had to stop and ask for directions. He got the idea that he was going the wrong way when he saw the sign welcom­ing him and his passengers back to Indiana . . . When the Irish finally arrived at the schm1l (two stops later), they mistakenly drove around the convent looking for the gym. A kind soul pointed out that the school was on the other side of the property, and ·-·-~ '~nd crew finally walked . ...b .•. which they w -·-y<llY at 6: I5 p.m., 45 minutes before the scheduled tipoff. 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~­

~~4()l~~~~============================M=o=n=da=y='=Fe=b=ru=~===8=,1=9=8=2===p=a=ge===ll 
Molarity Michael Molinelli AND 50 ONe.£ A6AIN .I. X J..DDK FoRWf\RD )..ffi'. DD YOU #1 ANNCV/IJt-tNC:J HY 5f-RV/f.Jf::r 7Jit' 5TVitNT.5 INT£tVP 1D CARRY ON IN C..WDtf)AC-Y PeP. 6T'VPHJr OF NOTRe J>AHE WITH TH~ OFr'it£ 5/NC£ YOU BDJ>Y PRE0tD~NI £AFW~5fNr3:5S At.Jl> AR£ A C1RAPUA.TtNC, VIDJ..aJc.[; 5E:NJ~? Doonesbury I lH& HAITIANS ARC JlEr CRAZY A8a.JT 5PORT FISHING. IIJHU fAMit.I&S {)O IT 'ffX3eTHCR. '\ r.­Simon ACROSS 34 Fair 58 Fair 26 Annex 1 Nene,e.g. attraction attraction 27 Happen 6 Luge 36 Self hour 28 PerchThe Daily Crossword 10 String up 37 A president 62 Boleyn 29 Preminger 14 Show backer of France 63 To shelter and Kruger 15 Facile 38-Landers 64 Strange 30 National 16 Melville 39 Father 65 Face park In opus 40 Service 66 Japanese Canada 17 Fair club: abbr. ship word 31 Face covers attraction 41 Fair fare 67 Captured 32 Concur 20 Gratis 45 Linemen: 33 Fertile 21 Pronoun abbr. DOWN loam 22 Snake 46 Ocean ledge 1 Barbed hook 35 Eating 23 Require 47 Sounds 2 Remarkable places 25 Taxi 48 Regatta thing 39 Unmarried customer Items 3 Bugbear woman 27 Alloy used 49 Capital 4 Peace 41 Swap In jewelry of Yemen 5 Samuel's 42 Relative 30 "Billy-" 50 Pay out mentor ofatm 31 Type of 53 Stir 6 Basted 43 On -(con­lace 54 Nova, e.g. 7 The Coward­tinuously) ly Lion 44 "The Raven" 8 Wind authorFriday's Solution direction 48 Beginning 9 Color 49 Good-bye,G A L L .p 0 L A A •s T I A fabrics monaml0 MA0.A 0 0 B E.N 0 L 0 D0 Will. AN D0 U T .A P I A 10 Throng 50 Fraud S I N G L E•s T A A I N E A 11 Surrounded 51 Corn bread ·-T A L L-0 S L 0­by 52 Sea eagle C A B I N. AM A-I S T L E 12 Entangling 53 Maple genus A T 0 M.A G E N D A •c 0 T complica­55 FatigueM0 T E.C 0 NGlo•s H I N tion 56 French S T 0 L 0 N.H E A A UL r• 13 One on the girl friendS L 0 T H. N0 A.M0 A E S move 57 Hollow stem1-M 0 U E •• A F AA-1 18 Gloss 59 WoollyC 0 L A N 0 E R. A S T HM A 19 Full offat creatureA D I p I NT H E A I RT•u 24 Nigerian 60 In the©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. S I N E •c OM E T .N I N 0 people style ofAll Rights Reserved K N E E .E s s A y •o R EW 25 Hilarious 61 Obtain 218/82  Campus · •11:1 5 a.m., 3:30 p.m. ­Final class, Introduction to utilities, M-115 Computing Center/Math Build­ing •4:30 p.m. -Lecture, "Invarient Theory on Stein Spaces", Dr. Dennis Snow, johns Hopkins Univer­sity, 226 Computer Center/Math Building, Sponsored by Math Department •6 p.m. -Free University, Ballet I, Holy Cross Pool Room, Notre Dame •7 p.m. -Fllm, "Pandora's Box", Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art, Sponsored by Department of Communication and Theatre, $1 admission •7:15 p.m. -Free University, Ballet II, Holy Cross Pool Room, Notre Dame •7:30 p.m. -Fllm, Lecture, "Peace Corps ­The Toughest Job You'll Ever Love", Clovia Sloan, LaFortune Uttle Theatre, All are welcome •7:30 p.m.-Fllm, "Garabandal", 118 Nieuwland Science Hall, Sponsored by Charismatic Prayer Group •9 p.m. -Fllm, "Gilda", Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art, Sponsored by Department of Communciation and Theatre, $1 admission T.V. Tonight 7:00p.m. 16 MASH 22 CBS News 28 joker's Wild 34 The MacNeil/Lehrer Repon 46 The Minnesota Connection 7:30p.m. 16 The Muppet Show 22 Family Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 8:00p.m. 16 Little House: On The: Praric: 22 Mr. Merlin 28 ABC Monday Night Movie:: "Superman" Part Two 34 Great Performances 46 Lester Sumrall Teaching 8:30p.m. 22 Private Benjamin 46 Blackwood Brothers 9:00p.m. 16 Third Annual TV Guide Special: "19811: The: Year in Television" 22 MASH 34 Bernstein/Bc:c:thovc:n 46 Today With Lester Sumrall 9:30p.m. 22 House: Calls 10:00p.m. 22 Lou Grant 28 Olivia Newton-john: Let's Get Physi· cal 34 Profiles in American Art 46 jimmy Swaggart Daily 10:30p.m. 34 Tom Cottle ll:OOp.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 The: Dick Cavett Show 46 Praise The: Lord 11:30p.m. 16 Tonight Show 22 Quincy and Banacek 28 ABC News Night line: 34 Captioned ABC News 12:00a.m. 28 ABC Movie:: "Looking For Mr. Good· bar" 46 Monday Night Basketball NCAA 12:30p.m. 16 Late Night with David Letterman 46 Blackwood Brothers  

 
Student Union presents Lecture and Panel Discussion with Gen. Robert E. Huyser Advisor to 5 Presidents Former Deputy to Alexander Haig ''American Foreign Policy in the 1980s: Defense'' Tuesday, February 9, 8:00p.m. Memorial Library Auditorium  

.. 
~----,-..... ......... ---~-----­
------·----~-~­
Monday, February 8, 1982 -page 12
S_~orts 

McNamaraexcels 

Irish icers sweep \Veekend series 
insofar as home playoffs are con­ly by Logan at 14:23, but the big
By MICHAEL OLENIK 

cerned. But with this sweep under story behind the play was an assist to
Sports Writer 

their belts, Notre Dame can only McNamara. It broke Irish assistant look ahead for the next three weeks. coach Len Moher's record of career
Sparked by especially effective 

The future will be bright for the points by a goaltender, and it
play by its speciality teams and two 

Irish in their remaining three CCHA brought a smile to McNamara's face 
clutch performances by goaltender 

series if they kill penalties like they afterwards.
Bob McNamara, Notre Dame's hock­

did Saturday and Sunday. Not only "All I can say is that it feels pretty
ey team took a pair of 5-1 decisions 

was Lake Superior 0 for 9 on the good to break Lenny's record."
from Lake Superior State to remain 

powerplay in Saturday's contest, but Rivalry aside, Moher's work with
in the running for home ice in the 

Notre Dame rubbed some salt in the Irish defense and goaltending
fast-approaching CCHA playoffs. 

their wounds with three shor· seemed to payoff handsomely
The sweep left the sixth place 

thanded scores. throughout the series -obviously a
Irish with a 11-1 1-2 record in the 

Combine that with two of four · positive sign with post season ac·
league and a 16-12-2 mark overall, 

successful powerplay opportunities tivity nearing. 
giving them plenty momentum and 

and the aforementioned goalkeep· For the record, Dave Poulin
incentive to roll into fifth place Fer­

ing, and you have a 5·1 win that did picked up his 24th goal to end the
ris State next week with thoughts of 

nothing but boost Notre Dame's night's scoring with three minutesfurther success. 
confidence for Sunday afternoon's remaining in the second period, and
Notre Dame's success both Satur­

contest. the Irish skated out the third period
day and Sunday was directly at· 

After Laker scoring leader Steve for their well-earned victory.
tributable to some outstanding 

Mulholland deflected a cross-ice Although the Lakers improved on
penalty killing and nothing less than 

pass past McNamara at the 2:30 mark their powerplay in Sunday's loss, the
excellent goaltending by 

of the first period, things only went improvement was nothing to brag
McNamara The junior "fill-in" from 

right for the high flying Irish. about. The only thing better about it
Toronto turned away 24 shots in 

With Brent Chapman in the was that they didn't allow any shor­
each victory, and too often for the 

penalty box for interference, Kirt thanded goals. Otherwise, it was an­
Soo Lakers, they came in spectacular 

Bjork picked a Laker's pocket at the other fruitless effort with thefashion. 
blueline and broke in alone on goal· man-advantage, as the Lakers came
"We got great efforts from some 

tender Lawrence Dyck before wrist· away empty handed seven more
key people, but I'd have to say that 

ing a hard shot into the cage. times.
Bob's play was just fantastic, " 

john Higgins followed suit at the Bjork got the festivities under way
remarked Irish Coach Lefty Smith. 

13:29 mark when he poked in a for the Irish on Sunday also, as he
"Its satisfying to see him play the 

rebound offofa soft shot from john tipped a joe Bowie shot just inside
way we know he's capable of, espe­

Schmidt, and the Irish had their the left post at the 7:10 mark of the
cially in a big series like this one." 

second shorthanded tally of the eve· first stanza. 
Undoubtedly, McNamara couldn't 

ning. The Lakers responded a minute
have had better timing. With Lake 

Bill Rothstein showed that Notre later on a nice play by Mulholland,
Superior losers only once in ten

junior Bob McNamara 'kept' the puck and the Lake Superior Dame can score with an extra man but his feed to a rushing Dave 
games so far this year, the Irish were

State Soo Lakers away this weekend by identical scores of5-1. See also when he notched a powerplay 
Keegan was all the visitors had to en­
virtually with their backs to the wall

Mike Olenik's. story below. (Photo byjohn Macor) 
score at 2:24 of the second period joy. after taking a pretty cross-crease Logan's powerplay goal at the pass fromjeffLogan. 11 :00 mark gave Notre Dame a per­
Byone point 
Although Logan later recorded an· manent lead, and subsequent scores other assist and a goal on Sunday, by Rothstein, Dave Lucia and Rex Smith fdt that his senior co-captain Bellomy gave the Irish their first hall a standout weekend in other home sweep since last semester.
~UCLA Bruins nudge Fighting Irish 
aspects. Needless to say, the series left the "I thought that jeff had one of his Irish reason to hold their heads high,By SKIP DESJARDIN 13 points, on 28 percent shooting, down. Once we had the lead, we best series, and that's because of his and considering. that Schmidt,
Sports Editor between them. were more patient with the ball, and 
play at both ends ofthe ice," offered Bowie, Higgins and Dan CollardIn the second half, the Irish held our defense forced them to be more Smith. "His hustle and leadership were banged up for Sunday's con­LOS ANGELES -Almost. Sanders to just two early points, patient, too. 
were big factors in both wins." test, one couldn't help but beIt has happened time and again in while totally dominating the t!arly "That's strategy -not slow­Bjork picked up his second man· impressed with the fine effort. 
this unique season. Notre Dame going. down." 
short goal after being set up perfect· 
came so close to pulling offan upset In an 1 1-0 scoring spurt that The patience kept the Irish from -only to fall just short. began three minutes into the half, throwing the ball away, but the 11­It happened at Kentucky, at San Notre Dame looked like it was going minute scoring drought cost them 
Francisco and against Villanova. to blow the game out ofreach. dearly. 
Wotnen sUJin streak 
Yesterday, it happened beneath Ron Rowan hit a layup with 11 "The five-second call was a key the banners ofPauley Pavilion. minutes remaining, putting the Irish turnover," said Phelps of a failed in· UCLA came from behind late in up by six. UCLA hadn't scored in just bounds play in the closing minutes. 
endsat 10 games
the second half, thwarting the efforts under six minutes, and the Irish "We thought we should've gotten 
By MARK HANNUKSELA lt was at that point that Miami,
ofa tough Irish defense, to nip Notre were in complete control. the same call against them at the 
Sports Writer now 12·7, proceeded to get back in
Dame 48-47. They played tough defense, allow­other end, but it didn't happen that the game. The Redskins outscored
... The Bruins got phenomenal play ing the Bruins to score just seven way." from forward Mike Sanders in the points through those last 11 Things certainly didn't happen OXFORD, Ohio -The streak has the Irish 12-4 over the last five minutes of the half, and 11-4 over
first half, but could manage only a minutes. the way Larry Farmer thought they ended. 
would. the first eight-and-one-half minutes
31·30 halftime lead. Sanders scored But the Irish never scored again. One day after its longest-ever win· of the second period, to take their
I 8 points, on 8-of-1 0 shooting, to "I though we had great com­"I don't make a habit of holding ning streak had reached 10 games biggest lead ofthe contest, 46-39.
keep UCLA in the game. posure," said a frustrated but happy the ball with a one-point lead," said with a 70-54 win over the College of Notre Dame came back to within
He got little help, however, as his Digger Phelps after the game. "We the UCLA coach of a slowdown Mount St. joseph's, Notre Dame's women's basketball suffered a 65-61 striking distance, cutting the defecit
Bruin teammates could manage just really weren't looking for a slow-during the game's final minutes. "We defeat to Mid-American Conference to one, 58-57, on a pair of Debbie
were looking for a wide-open shot, 

Hensley free throws, but could get
and didn't want to take anything if it power Miami University (Ohio) wasn't right. Saturday at Millett Hall on the Miami no closer. Trailing by two, 63-61, with :20
"We figured to control the ball campus.
Irish fencers rally, 
and make them foul us. Then we · The loss, Notre Dame's fourth in left, Notre Dame did get an oppor­could go to the line and put the 18 games, was the first for Coach tunity to tie when Carrie Bates was Mary DiStanislao's club in nearly fouled by sophomore center Dana
game away."

upset Wayne State 
two months. Calkins while going up for a
But the Bruins' Darren Daye 
defensive rebound.

missed the front end of a one-and-The last time the Irish were 
By BILL MARQUARD undefeated in 38 bouts this season. beaten was in the championship But Bates, a 71 percent free throw
one, and the Irish had control of the 

Sports Writer Yet Quaroni set the statisitics sheet game of the Penn Holiday Tourna-shooter who had connected on both
ball with less than a minute to go.

aside, won the first two touches of ment in Philadelphia on December of her previous tries in the game,
"The idea was to go with whoever

... 
Backed by a Come·from-beht"nd· the bout and whipped Bianchi 5·1 h d h ball, "d Ph 1 f h" 19. In that game, Mount St. Mary's missed the front end of a one-and­
a t e , sat e ps o ts at-

team e"ort and a freshman who for the win. College blew the Irish out of the
u• tempt at getting the last shot. 
Would not qul.t, the Notre Dame "Andrew Quaroni was mag-B u h fi Palestra in the second half, outscor-See STREAK, page 10
ut CLA ad ouls to waste with-

men's &enct"ng team scored t"ts nificent," related Irish coach Mike ing them 39-22, after trailing by four
" out sending the Irish to the line ­
d DeCicco. "Bianchi had beaten both at halftime.
secon major victory in as many and they took full advantage. weeks, posting a 14-13 decision Ola Harstrom and Rich Daly, but "We told them to foul whoever Saturday's game was no blowout, 
INSIDE: 

over arch-rival Wayne State Friday Andy got the first touch cleanly and had the ball with seven seconds although Notre Dame threatened to nl.ght 1·n Detrot"t. scored a second touch that no one in make it one in the first half. 
left," said Farmer. The Irish rallied from 8-3 and 12-9 the arena except the scoring john Paxson was the man. The After the lead changed hands six 
Track,p.lO

deficits to tie the team score at 13· machine picked up. Irish got the ball to Ron Rowan on times in the first 10 minutes of the 
13. In the final bout Of the meet' "Andy managed to maintain his h d game, Notre Dame went ahead 16­
t e resulting inboun s play. But the

freshman Andy Quaronl. faced the cool when Bianchi didn't, and fr h 1 S on a Ruth Kaiser field goal. The 
es man lost control of the ball 
Lendl,p. 10 

Tanars' Ettore Bt"ancht" on the e"pee responded with a convincing win." h 1 Irish built their lead to eight on 
w i e driving the lane, and the game

strip. Quaroni, whose season record was over. three occasions, the last coming Bianchi, a transfer from Italy whQ stands at 25-S, was 2·1 overall "We told the kids all week that with 5:15 left in the half on a Laura is the academic equivalent of a against Wayne State. Dalv · and Dougherty jumper from the foul line 
Hoosiers,p. 9 
~·~s~e~n~io~r~w~it~h~fr~e~s~h~m:~an~e~li~g1
~·b~il~ity~,~w~a:s~iiii~S~e~e~F~E~N~C~E~RS~,~p~a:g~e~9~iiiiiiiiiiii~S~e~e~U~C~LA~,~pa~g:e~9~iiiiii~t~h:a~t~m~a~d~e~t~h~e~s~c~o~re~3~1~-2~3~.iiiiiiii~iiiiiiiiii~iiii~~~~~ 




