• • .HPC-page5 

l-


By ANNE MIKOS 
News Staff 
Three thousand Notre Dame stu­
dents signed a petition for the 
United States Nuclear Weapons 
Freeze Campaign, advocating an im­
mediate bilateral halt of the nuclear 
arms buildup. 
The petition, which was sent to Indiana Congressman John Hiler on April 2, wa.o; signed by 745I mem­
bers of the 3rd congressional dis­trict, including the students. 
The petition states that the United States and the Soviet Union "should adopt a mutual freeze on the testing, prodtKtion and deployment of nuclear weapons and of missiles and new aircraft designed to deliver 
Second Lady 
Students petition nuclear halt 
Bush talks on illiteracy, volunteerism 
By MARGARET FOSMOE 
Saint Mm)''s E.wcutille Editor 
The eradication of illiteracy is the "one project tha't will help all of society's problems," according to Barbara Bush, wife of Vice President George Bush. 
Mrs. Bush emphasized literacy and volunteerism as her primary in­
Secmul l.at~l' Barham Husb spoke yesterday as part of tbe 
terests while relating her ex­
"/Jistinp,uisbetl American Wome,1" series. See story at rigbt. (pboto 
perience~ ofpublic life in aspeech at 
hy (.'beryl Ertelt) 
Annenburg Auditorium yesterday. 


Rectors define dorm duties 
By MARK WORSCHEH 
Newslitlilor 
lkctors arc "like pastors of a parish" who look after 
the overall wdfare of the students under that root~ says 
fr. John 1.. Van Wolvlear. 
llowever, when disciplinary matters arise, Van 
Wolvlcar, the Vice President for Student All'airs, em­
phasizes that within the conllnes of DuLac, rectors 
"have got complete control in there." 
The authority and role of rectors in general was the 
suhjc<:t of a series of interviews recently with Univer­
sity administrators and rectors themselves. 
fr. Michael J. Heppen, Director of Student Residences, agrees in concept with Van Wolvlear, call­ing rectors the W-·-·--N -· ·AY
....--E·--­"leadt·rs of the ED 50 %: satellite Cl1rb­tian com­
munitics around 
FOCUS 
the campus." 
Said Heppen, "There is a whole tocus of things that come under that in terms of the students' academic life, religious life, their social life, and things of that nature. 
"Working very closely with the students in the residence halls is the role of the rector." lleppcn says this closeness is necessary for the ideal rc<.·tor-student relationship. 
Bro. Viator Grzeskowiak of Stanford Hall believes "the main thing is to he available to people in the hall when thay need help in any area, or to go out and help people when problems arc brought to our attention." 
Rectors, however, must occa.<;ionally perform as dis­ciplinarians. As Van Wolvlear notes, as each rector ha.<; his or her own pcr:;onality, each will have a different "modus operandi" lor handling problems. 
Van Wolvlear suspects that most rectors use their hall 
judicial boards and hall staffs wisely; however, he says, ofStudents. On any other violations, the student has the option to either have the rector handle it or the )­Board." 
"If for various reasons, the rector feels it should not go to the )-Board, he can handle it himself," though he calls these situations "rare." 
Concerning hall rules, Sr. Lenz feels "students ought 
to be challenged to do as much oftheir hall governing as 
possible." 

Says Grzeskowiak, "This is your home, and I don't 
think your parents have a superabundance of rules. 
Rules are for the common good ofthe family, and I think 
it should be the same in the hall." 
However, downplaying the authoritative side of a 
rector's life, Sr. Lenz says she sees discipline as "just one 
piece ofit." 

"I see myself here as an adult living in the midst of 
students and trying to share my life with them." 
Van Wolvlear also recognizes the new pastoral aspect 
of the rector. 

"When I was rector, in '54 and '55, we were mostly disciplinarians -bookkeepers. We still had ministerial aspects, but it was not stressed that much. The pastoral part ha.<; been the biggest transition that I have noticed since I've been back." 
Says Heppen, "I think rectors are looked upon in a much wider sense than just interpreters of the Univer­sity codebook." 
Returning to the idea of the individual personalities of rectors, Van Wolvlear suspects they can help shape the spirit of halls, especially where traditions have not yet been established. 
Extending his earlier analogy, Van Wolvlear says "every pa.<;tor's different," and he feels that the dif­ferences are beneficial. Heppen sees the variance as an asset to the system: "I think that's one of the things that is good about a university -that there are a variety of people." 
nuclear weapons." 
This is a step toward lessening the risk of nuclear war and improving national and international security, according to Brother William Mewes, executive secretary of the Social and Justice Commissions of the Brothers of Holy Cross and chairman of the nuclear freeze cam­paign. 
The committee, composed of I 0 to I 5local members, began the cam­paign with two peace conferences held in South Bend and at Notre Dame in the fall of 1980. The cam­paign is continuing to work for sup­port to convince Hiler and other congressmen that the general public wants a freeze. and to encourage President Ronald Reagan to promote such a freeze, according to Mewes. Public support ha.~ risen sharply because people realize that nuclear war is immoral and we have no defense against it, he said. 
The campaign endorses the Kennedy-Hatfield Senate Joint Resolution 163 which proposes that a freeze be declared immediately. Reagan supports the jackson­Warner Senate Resolution which calls tor a build-up of weapons before enacting a freeze. But accord­ing to the Defense Department's an­nual report for fiscal year 198.2, " ...the U.S. and the Soviet Union arc roughly equal in strategic nuclear power." 
Mrs. Bush's speech was the fourth in Notre Dame's "Distinguished American Women" series; celebrat­ing a decade of co-education at the University. 
Her chief project as Second Lady is working toward a lessening of il­literacy in this country. Mrs. Bush quoted statistics that tie crime and unemployment directly to illiteracy. Mrs. Bush says the American literacy rate compares to that ofsuch places as Burma and Albania, and she feels this record must be improved in or­
der  to  help  all  of  America's  
problems.  
According  to  Mrs.  Bush,  the  

United States currently spends three times more funds on education than Western Europe, while the literacy rate lags far behind ~hose countries. She intends to continue her efforts !Q__e_n_d _what .§h..Lf!lf!sid~r.:;_(o be a 
crisis in American education. 
Of Reagan's proposed educational cuts, Mrs. Bush said "I don't like this any more than you do, but we must cope with this as it is, and not as we'd like it to be. . ..While volunteers can't take the place of government 
-and shouldn't -they can help out." 
In order to encourage literacy, Mrs. Bush believes she must leave the teaching and politics to those trained for these jobs, and con­centrate on encouraging others to donate thcilt time and money to the efforts. 
She cited the local Primary Day School and the Logan School l(>r the Retarded, both of which she visited earlier in the day, as examples of what she is trying to accomplish. She 
_____ ~e_!!~~~!l· p~g~---­

.____.,.._~--~--------------·--------------------­
Committee discusses 
college center plans 
By ANNE MONASTYRSKI 
News Staff 
Months ofresearch and planning 
have gone into the development of 
the new college center. A commit­
tee met recently wilh architect 
Evans Woolen, who designed the 
new library, to discuss the goals and priorities of the center. 
The committee, consisting of representatives from the Board of Regents, Alumnae, Parent Council, faculty, staff and students, has decided that multipurpose areas will best accommodate the needs of the college. Although still unap­proved, space is being allocated for these activities. 
The bookstore will move from the basement of LeMans to the first floor of the new center. The ea.~t wingofthe Mezzanine level, which currently houses periodicals, will be the location ofthe snack bar and deli. This should be similar to the Huddle, but on a smaller scale. 
The Mezzanine west wing will 
1981-82 Student Body Presidenl Eileen Murphy expressed the need to devote space particularly w stu­dent activities. 
"By locating publications like the Observer and the Blue Mantle and volunteer services in the cen-
See GOALS, page 4 


Bro. <.;rzeskowiak believes "the rector, being an older
"We don't have a 'rector' stamp." be converted into a multi-purpose person, should be aware ofthe fact that personality con­
area, providing space for dances, flicts can arise, and as soon as he realizes it, he should do 
Sr. Jean Lcnz, Rector of farley Hall, says "it depends 
on the naturt· of the offense" whether she will handle recitals, meetings and other social 
everything in his power to minimize the conflict, not to
the matter herself, with the advice of the hall staff, or events. 
aggravate it."

send it to the Dean. Plans for the upper level of the 
'. 

Bro. Grzeskowiak notes that "there art· some things old library include space for offices See HALLS, page 5
liMed in DuLac which are under the realm of the Dean and conference rooms. 

,----------­
~-­
·-------~­

Wednesday, April 7, 1982 -page 2

News.Brie!J 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
A woman student at the University of Notre Dame reponed an incident ofattempted assualt to campus and city police last Wednesday evening after a motorist with whom she accepted a ride mad~ an indecent gesture near the corner ofAngela.and Notre Dame Ave. 
The woman said she accepted the ride when an approaching storm made walking hazardous. She described the car as a two-door dark green, possibly a Buick Skylark. The motorist was approximate: ly 22 years ofage, light brown hair, slender to medium build, green eyes and a smoker, the woman reported. -The Observer 
President Reagan departstoday for an extended Easter weekend in the Caribbean that will include talks with leaders ofJamaica, Barbados and other island nations as well as a visit with longtime friend Claudette Colbert. The president and Mrs. Reagan's tnp was drawn up as a vacation at the Barbados home of Miss Col­bert, the ~c~ress. But it also afforded an opportunity to show support for the mmt-states that are the targets ofsocial and economic aid in the aqministration's Caribbean Basin initiative. Discussion with local leaders about last week's military takeover of the Falkland Islands for 149 yeru:s a British territory, by Argentina, may be added to·th~ agen~a, Whtte House spokesman Larry Speakes said yesterday. "I'm sure tt could be raised," he said. -AP 
Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher told shouting opposition members of Parliament yesterday she would not resign over the Falkland Islands crisis, and put an embargo on Argentine beef and other products. But with mounting criticism of her failure to avert the Argentine seizure of the islat~ds, panic gripped the London Stock Exchange and the pound tumbled amid fears the crisis could force the Conservative leader out ofoffice. The British assault ship Fearless steamed out of Portsmouth harbor to join a 40-vessel British armada whose leading aircraft carriers, Hermes and Invincible, sailed Monday on the lwo-week voyage to the South Atlantic islands. Their mission was to regain the Falklands by force ifnecessary. In Buenos Aires, Interior Minister Gen. Alfredo Saint Jean told reporters the Argentine government will defend the Falklands "at any cost." The government continued to reinforce its garrisons on the islands, with a reported 300 soldiers plus a dozen trucks and various artillery pieces.. -AP 
. ~ historic April blizzardparalyzed the indus,trial 
Cities ofthe Northeast yesterdaywith foot-deep snow whipped into giant drifts by winds gusting to 70 mph,while cold never known this late in the season settled on the Midwest. The blizzard, which swept from Ohio through New England, brought travel to a virtual standstill in cities such as Boston and New York, where a snowstorm ofsuch ferocity had never hit this time ofyear. Schools and factories closed. Offices emptied. Airports shut down. Cars and trucks smacked into each other like billiard balls on the highways. People were urged to stay home. Veteran New York newscasterJim Donne­ly.ofWCBS told his listeners, "On this date in 1909, Admiral Robert Peary reached ~he North Pole. "Today, the North Pole came to us." The National Weather Service said New York City had 10-inch snow­falls in April in 1915 and in 1975, but neither qualified as a blizzard. 
-AP 

A 37-year-old man photographedwhile helping subdue an airline hijacking suspect has been arrested in drug and weapons charges. Authorities say the picture provided a crucial piece of information. Barry Wright, a veterans organizer once honored by Chicago's mayor for his work in race relations, was released on · $15,000 bond yesterday after police confiscated 
$500,000 worth ofcocaine, more than $13,000 in cash and machine guns, sawed-off shotguns and other firearms in a raid Sunday on his South Side apartment, authorities said. Officials said a key to the in­vestigation was a photograph, taken aboard a United Airlines jet, of Wright keeping watch on a .man who allegedly tried to hijack the Chicago-to-Miami flight to Cuba. -AP 
Secretary of StateAlex;-nder M. Haig Jr. rejected yes­terday as a "leap into the unknown" a freeze of nuclear weapons at current levels, saying that would perpetuate a strategic tilt favoring the Soviet Union. Haig's reaffirmation of the administration's drive 
. for a major U.S. weapons buildup came a day after President Reagan 
· urged Soviet President Leonid I. Brezhnev to join him in June at a United Nations disarmament conference in New York. "Arms con­trol's central purpose must be to reinforce the military balance upon which deterrence depends, at reduced levels ofweapons and risk," Haig said in a speech here. Haig said the United States and its allies must strive to avoid both nuclear catastrophe and nuclear blackmail. "By maintaining the military balance and sustaining deterrence, we protect the essential values of Western civilization," he told the Georgetown Center for Strategic and International studies. -AP 
Increasing cloudineSStoday with a chance of snow toward evening. Cold with the highs in the low to mid 30s. tonight and tomorrow. Snow likely. Continued cold with lows tonight in the low to mid 20s and highs tomorrow low to mid 30s. The chances of measurable snow 30 percent today and 70 percent tonight. -AP 
Centerutilizes old WNDU space 
The old WNDU building will become the Ce'nter for Social Concerns next semester, ending years ofspecula­tion as to who would inhabit the structure when WNDU moves to more spacious accomodations this)une. 
Over fifteen organizations expressed an interest in 
the building shortly after plans for a new WNDU facility 
were announced during the spring of 1980. 

The proposal for a Center for Social Concerns was Volunteer Serv~ces Office (VSO) now in LaFortune Stu­initiated in the fall semester of 1979. Presentations to dent Center. The CEL and the VSO will discontinueFr. Theodore Hesburgh and the Student Affairs Commit­operation when the Center opens.
tee of the Board of Trustees concerning the use of the A major goal proposed for the Center is "to enhanceWNDU building for the Center was made by a group of Notre Dame's identitiy as a Catholic University"students, faculty, and staff during the spring of 1980, through a more visible commitment to social concerns.
followed by a formal proposal on October 28, 1980. 
The purpose ofthe new Center is not to expand into a
One question raised concerning the decision to con­separate entity, but to function as a place to stimulate an
vert the building into a social concerns center was area ofpeace and disarmament, according to CEL Direc­whether this would effectively utilize the structural tor Fr. Donald McNeill. McNeill prepared a proposal forcapacity of the building. Would it not, some ask, better the Center along with VSO Director Sr. Judith Anneserve as a student media center, housing student Beattie.
publications and student-operated radio station WSND? 
One WNDU employee believes the building is better McNeill hopes the Center could collaborate more suited as a Center for Social Concerns than as a student with various colleges, and ideally improve courses media facility, noting the "cramped" size of the involving social concerns. 
structure. "The hew build-Officials said the move to ing is much better as a learn-the larger quarters was ing facility for students," he 
dictated by a growing con­said. 
cern for social respon­WSND should be allowed 
sibilities on the campus. partial use of the facilities al­Many Notre Dame students are presently involved in as­
though it would not be sistance programs· to inner
.feasible to move into the city and depressed rural
building, one WSND station 
announcer suggested. 

areas during vacation periods, counselling
"One re~on we didn't re­programs for the aged, tutor­
quest it is because we would 
have to extend our 

ing children and a variety of broadcasting links with the 
other projects throughout ACC,"he said. ·~such Jarg~­.·. ~···· ·\ .· .. the nation. 
'­

The structure will also
scale removal and reins~la­house a coffee shop, where
tion ofequipment would be 
impractical." 

McNeill hopes people WSND Station Manager 
would be able to go and Emeritus Tom Nessinger 
meet with peers and hold supports use of the old 
discussions. studio as a Center for Social Concern. 
"Students and faculty have few opportunities to meet "We have all the room we need," he said. "I think the 
near the library in a relaxed way and converse about groups that are getting it need it more than we do.'' what happened in class," he said. The building was constructed 25 years ago for McNeill emphasized that the Center would not in­WNDU, and needs extensive renovation, according to 
crease staff, but would offer expanded space for stu­Physical Plant Director Donald Dedrick, who adds that 
dents involved in volunteer groups to meet. WNDU was "unbelievably crowded" in the old build­
McNeill and Beattie offer a well-planned proposal, ing. 
and since representatives of radio station WSND -the Dedrick noted that regardless of who occupies the student organization that would receive the most building, mechanical work on items such as ventilation, 
practical use ofthe old broadcast station -support the heating, air conditioning and electrical wiring is 
building's use as a Center for Social Concern, one can 
needed. Extensive renovation would require four conclude,that the building will best serve this function 
months of work, while a "basic" job would only take a in the fall. 
couple of months. 

Major improvements planned for the studio include a 
multi-purpose room for audio-visual shows and talks in 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the
the former newsroom, a conference room and a coffee 
views ofthe author, and do not necessarily represent 
shop. 

the views ofThe Observer or its editorial board.
The Center for Social Concerns would include the Center for Experiential Learning ( CEL) currently operating on the eleventh floor of the library, and the 

Offer good on a complete pair of prescription glasses only. 

IServiceDP.ticall 
The Eyewear Experts concord Mall 875-7472 scottsdale Mal!, south Bend 291·2222 

offices throughout Indiana ~ 
EYEEXAMINAnONAVAILABLEBYOPTOMETRIST 1 VISA' 
I. WITH OFFICES ON PRHitSES . 
~-----------------· 

Design Editor................... Deirdre Murphy Design Assistants ..., ................ Joe Flowers Typesetters ....................... Tom MacLennan 
Bruce Oakley News Editor............ , .............. Michele Dietz Copy Editors .................. Maureen O'Toole 
joe Musumeci 
Features Layout........................ Tari Brow'n 
Editorials Layout ......... Mike McCaughey 
Sports Copy Editor.................. Ed Konrady 
Typists ....................................... Betsy Porter 
Tari Brown 
ND Day Editor.................... .)oe Musumeci. 
SMC Day Editor............... Toni Rutherford 
Ad Design ................................... John & Bob 
Photographer .........................Cheryl Enelt 
Guest Appearances ...........................Sleepy 
"And after changes and changes, we are 
more orless still the same." 
"Almost Easter" Rabbit 
Kelli 
System says: "I'm not dead yet!" 
President ofBand Vice 
The Observ~r (USPS 598 920) IS 
published Monday through Fnday and ~n home football Saturdays. except dur~ng exam and vacation penods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Satnt Marys Col· lege Subscr1pt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wr~tmg The Observer P 0 Box 0 
Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The 
Associated Press All reproduCtion 
nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre 
Dame. lnd1ana 46556 

------------------------------------------------------------------·--------­


The Observer 
ND Women's Caucus reorganizes 
By FRANCISJAMES 
Neu•sStajf 
"Serving the women of Notre I>amt· as an inl(>rrnational organiza­tion" is how co-I(JLIIlder~ :'\<lary Ellen Sternitzke and Elizabt·th Feely of the Women's Caucu~ characterize the newly tilflned organization. 
The Womt•n's Caucus is similar to one organized in 1972; however, the present catKus is more concerned with undergraduatt' rather than litculty and graduate students. 
The Women's Caucus, Sternitzke 
said, is an alternative to the 
Women's Advisory Council, since 
. . . Bush 

continuedfrom page 1 
praised the schools as doing "a most wonderful job" and encouraged others to volunteer at such places, saying "nothing you could do, in my opinion, could he a hetter gift for your country." 
Mrs. Bush also described her life as the wife of a public figure. Mrs. Bush is the only speaker in the lecture series who is involved primarily in the supportive role of wife and mother, rather than pursu­ing a professional career. 
Shortly after thei t r marriage, the Bushes moved to Texas where Bush started a husiness and Mrs. Bush "raised the family." Ofher early mar­riage, Mrs. Bush said "I loved those early years ... It honded us together with our children and it was certain­ly a very worthwhile time." 
In 1964, Bush ran lor and won a stat in tht' U.S. Congress. Mrs. Bush described the johs ofa congressman and hi~ wile as "like being a nurse­maid to 4'iO,OOO people." 
Four years later Bush went to work l(>r the llnited Nations. Mrs. Bu~h ~aid they both carne away from that job thinking tht· U.N. "may not bt· tht· best world organization, hut it is the only world organization" and it must he supported. Mrs. Bush believes the li.N. aids in many peace­ful missions, stKh as the light against 
malaria,  that  people  seldom  con­ 
sider.  
Bush  was  asked  hy  President  
Richard  Nixon  to  head  the  

Republican National Committee. Mrs. Bush nedit~ her husband with "kn·ping tht· ( Watergatt·) scandal from tht· Party, and the Party from the scandal." 
Undn the Ford Administration. Bu~h was made tht· Chief of the l.ia.~on Oltkt· to the People's Rt·public of China. Of China, Mrs. Bush said she admire~ the country's "civility, t·ulture, and beauty" hut regret~ "there is no frenlom ... a .nd I've learned that there is nothing more important than freedom." 
After China, Bush was asked to head tht Central Intelligence Agt·ncy. Mrs. Bush says her her hus­band's C.I.A. stint i~ the job "I am most proud of him for. "She charac­
the: Advisory "docs not ti.Jiflll the: topics as buying insurance, investing 
nceds of the: womcn at Notre money, how to change a spare tire, 
Dame." and other practical items. 
The Advisory Council has one l'inally, the Caucus plans on for· repre~entative from each dorm and ming ·small discussion groups on "we're looking for something all such topics as women's rights, women can belong to," she noted. E.R.A., and abortion. 
The organization's plans are Stcrnitzke stresses that the twofold -to act as both an educa­Women's Caucus is not strictly for tional and a support network. "women only." "We're not radical 
"We want to bring in lectures and feminists or anti-male. On the con­sponsor activities dealing with trary, we welcome active male par­women's issues," Stcrnitzkc said. ticipation." 
"!'or example, on April 2'ith, we The group is in the middle of its are sponsoring a tour of the Snite t1rst fundraiser, selling caster eggs Museum on 'Women in Art'." and jelly beans -the proceeds from 
The Women's Caucus would also which will go to establish a newslet· 
like to sponsor workshops on such ter and sponsor future activities. 
terized the members of the C.I.A. as "most dedicated people." 
It was during these years that Mrs. Bush first became involved in volun­teer work by lecturing on China to raise money for charity. These early efforts led to her current interest in volunteerism. 
After several quiet years during the Carter Administration, Bush en­tered the campaign trail as Ronald Reagan's running mate. Of campaigning, Mrs. Bush said "I really loved it. For me, it was a great pleasure and I thoroughly enjoyed traveling throughout the U.S." 
Mrs. Bush considers the "highlight" of her 14 months as Second Lady the day the American hostages returned from Iran. "When they arrived, they couldn't believe we cared," she said. 
SMCclosesallfood facilitiesfor Easter 
BySANDYVALENZUELA 
News Staff 

The Saint Mary's dining hall will close for the weekend after din­ner tommorrow evening. Food service will re-open for dinner on monday. The snack shop will remain closed throughout the Easter Holiday. Charles Flaim, food service director, says the dining hall will he closed because in past years, only eight to ten people have attended meals. No exchange cards will be available to SMC stu· dents. This is the third year that food service will be closed for Eas­ter. 
ND students remaining on the ND campus ma>' eat at the south dining hall which will remain open for the weekend. The north dining hall will close after lunch tomorrow and re-open monday for dinner. The Huddle will he closed Friday through Sunday. 

Wednesday, April 7, 1982-page 3 

Frank F. Fowle 111, gave a dramatic presentation of"The Will of Zeus", a stitching togetherfrom -The lliad ofHomer, last night in the Annenberg Auditorium. (photo by Cheryl Ertelt) 
FOOTBALLCONCESSION STANDS Clubs, Organizations, Hall Governments have until Friday, April16to apply for a location for the 1982football season. Halls and Classes will beguaranteed a stand only ifthey apply. Allother clubs and organizations will go into a lottery Notification of winners will be the foiTowin_g week. Applications are availa_ble in th\~ ~ Student Activities Office.. ~ '  



ICELANDAIR lmODUCES 
NEW BARGAIN FARES TO 

MORE OF EUROPE. 
WXEMBOURO :---PARIS_____, 





'499 '581 
ROUIDTRIP ROUIDTRIP 
FROM CHICAGO FROM CHICAGO 
ZURICH FRIIKFURT 


'599 '557 
ROUIDTRIP ROUIDTRIP 
FROM CHICAGO FROM CHICAGO 
All Apex Farro: Aprol 1 ·May 14. 19d2. 7-90 day stay (7·60 dayo lu..m­
bourg). Sto'J)Overs prrmuted 1n both d1trt'l1ona. 14 day 1dvanct purch.ue 
required. Seats hmlt~d. Ask about our low co&l Normal. Samt Day, and 
! 
J. J. J.
I
I
I
I 
J.
I 
J. J.
I 
Group fares. too.

! ALSO LOW COST CONNECTING SERVICE TO NICE AND AMSTtRDAM. 
Jl! lcelandall' to L.&embourg. Luxair or Crossatr connecting service ~ to other destm~tions. ;,. 8 Confirmed reservation. 8 Free wme with dmner, cognac atr~r. Jl! 8 Bargam Stopover Tours ol Iceland and Luxembourg. 8 Bargam car ~ rentals. • Purchase Uck~ts m U.S. • All fares stibj~ct to change and 
government approval. ~ s~r yuur travt-1 al(t"nt ur uiiS00/555·1212 for tht" toll frer lrrland;ur number m )'Our area 
J. 


ICELANDAIRI= 
1.1•J:t:f,J)It:t t:li?i.·l?•liZ.I:/Ifl2t101f,Jll[:l•lJI
I1 

·'I 

CLUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS 
April is th• tim• to r•-r•gits•r your group for University recognition and its ensuing privileges. Forms are availabl• in Student Rctivltl•s Office. By Rpri130, you must compl•te: 
1. New registration form 
2. Financial statement (81-82 school year) 
3. Report or statement of activities for 81-82 school year. 
Thtt above are pr•-requisites for funding in Sepwnibttr, ustt of facilitl•s, and •ligibility for fund-raistng v•ntures, including football concession stands and the movie lottery. 
DEADLINE TO RE-REGISTER IS APRIL 30. 

Wednesday, April 7, 1982-page 4 

Football coach Gerry Faust spoke last night at Cavanaugh Hall, relating experiences during his first year ofcollege recruiting. He noted Notre Dame's strict academic requir(!ment, saying 
"Everyone we go after will graduate." (photo by Cheryl Ertelt) 
SAT., APRIL 10 7:30P.M. Notre Dame A. C. C. 
Admiss1on: $7.50 (lower arena) $6.00 (bleachers) 
$2.00 01scount Youths (12 & under) & Semor Citizens 
$2.00 off also NO SMC Students-Faculty -Staff 
Tickets on sale A.C.C. Box Office 9am -5pm 
cNotke CDcu~e/gatttt uUatty'g 
C:Oepattb~ettt 0~ CotnmufliCatlott attd vheattte Quegt ~ectutte ge!tteg 
cpe~rgpectweg ©Jt cA u\few CCfheatne 
by Professor KAZIMIERZ BRAUN Artistic Director of The Contemporary Theatre of W roclaw . Poland 
ill. ''The Theatrical Imagination of T adeusz Rozewicz ' ' 
April 7, 4: 30 PM Memorial Library Lounge, Notre Dame 
Sign-ups for 
Sophotnore LiteraryFestival 
beingtaken at Student Union 
Office, 2nd floor LaFortune. 
ALL POSITIONS AVAILABLE Sign-ups Apri12 -7. 

Babysitter awarded custody of boy 
WILMINGTON, Del. (AP) ­Brenda D. Smith, a disabled, un­employed high school drop-out, has lost custody of her 4-year-old son. He now lives with a woman who babysat for him while his mother convalesced from a car accident. 
The ruling which placed Daryl An­thony Smith in the care of Dorothy Marx, did not cite abuse or neglect, but said the boy was raised by Mrs. Marx to the point where he no lon­ger was Mrs. Smith's son. Now Mrs. Smith wants him back. 
"It's the most unjust thing I have ever heard of. They stole my baby. Nobody's baby is safe if they get away with this," said Mrs. Smith of New Castle. 
The ruling could have "tremendous ramifications" for poor people in similar situations, said her attorney, Carolyn R. Schlecker. 
Mrs. Smith, 24, said Family Court Judge John T. Gallagher took Daryl because Mrs. Marx could provide more for the child. Another son, 8­year-old Phillip, remains in Mrs. Smith's care. 
In his ruling on Feb. 22, Gallagher 
named Mrs. Marx, 4S, and her hus­
band James, a 47-year-old construc­
tion worker, as guardians for Daryl. 
The Marxes, Mrs. Smith, and Mrs. Smith's estranged husband, Gary, all had filed petitions for custody of the child. Gallagher said neither parent had the "parenting capability and skills that would indicate that Daryl should be returned" to them, and that both failed to "plan adequately 

Cashierofficecloses during lunch hour 
By LAUREL-ANN DOOLEY 
News Staff 
During lunch hours, when most students are free from classes, the Office of the Cashier in the Ad­ministation Building closes. One of the few places on campus where stu­dents are able to cash checks, the cashier's office serves a vital func­tion and its availability is crucial. 
Nonetheless, according to office controller Fred Baumer, "That office, like all other University offices, closes at lunch simply be­cause it is the lunch hour." 
The possibility ofstaggered lunch breaks which would enable the office to remain open would "create some problems," said Baumer. The office is staffed with three tellers on Monday, Wednesday and Friday and with two tellers on Tuesday and Thursday. For security reasons, no less than two tellers can be present, according to Baumer. 
As far as line-ups for teller service are concerned, Baumer considers them "an unavoidable phenomenon." He said, "We have recently checked with students and it seems that the maximum time spent in line is only six minutes. 
"The impact would probably be very small even if the office did stay open," he concluded. 

I~-------------------------~RIVER CITY RECORDS I 
1 Northern Indiana's :.argest Selection of Albums & Tapes. I I Why pay more any place else? I 
1 $2 00OFFf any regul~r ~ecord I
or tape with ad.1 _ • L1m1t 1 per person 1
I 
1 • Expires A ril 30, 1982 II 50970 US 31 North eOpen till 10 every night I 
13 miles N<?rth of Campus e ND/SMC checks cashed I1next to AI s Supermarket up to $20 over I 1 purchase amount 
I 

277-4242 eRecord Crates available
I 
Clcee& eat fb 



OAKROOM CAFE 
ill SAlk 1>iliq IWt'e PIIJ Coil 
For a late nite snack 
Nightly Specials 
Com lete with a new jukebox open Mon.-Thurs 9-·ll am V Fri.-Sat. 9-l am ~,....,...........,....~-~ 
;..· 

for Daryl's physical, mental and 
emotional needs, health and 
development." 
Mrs. Marx was sent by a private 
baby-sitting agency in March 1978 
to help care for Daryl -then 2 
weeks old -while Mrs. Smith was 
recuperating from an auto accident. 
"I had statement from my neurosurgeon that I could not lift my son," Mrs. Smith said. "I still have a permanent mJury. I'm not supposed to lift over 12 pounds." 
Mrs. Marx said she stayed on as a daytime sitter until October 1978, but left because she could not wait until Mrs. Smith's insurance settle­ment came through with payment for her work. 
Mrs. Marx. who has four children of her own, said she began work as a homemaker -taking care of the el­derly and handicapped in their homes -and took Daryl on jobs with her. 
She contends that when she left Mrs. Smith's home on a full-time basis, Mrs. Smith continued to ask her to care for Daryl. 
In 1980, she said, Daryl spent 290 days with her family. 
She contends, and Gallagher's ruling concurred, that the Marxes took care of Daryl's medical needs, as well as providing him with cloth­ing. She also said she paid many of Mrs. Smith's bills. 
During the four-day custody hearing in December, the state had recommended Daryl be placed in his mother's care. The state agreed there were some problems and has Mrs. Smith enrolled in parent educa­tion classes. 
... Goals 

continuedfrom page 1 
ter, we hope to increase student awareness and participation in these areas." Murphy stressed the importance of this facility as a stu­dent information center and hopes both faculty and students will take advantage ofthe information it will provide. 
Mary Ann O'Donnell, Director 
ofStudent Activities, is involved in 
the research and planning of the 
center. During the past months she 
has been gathering information 
about what is best for the student 
population." 
She views the center as a facility 
that will serve not only the stu­
dents, but faculty and staff as well. 
"The whole college community is going to henefit. It will be a place where students and faculty can gather and interact, a place that will reflect what this college is all about." O'Donnell emphasized, however, that she tries to "stay in tune to the needs of the students." 
Deciding how the new center will serve the commmunity is only the .beginning. The old library mmust be renovated before any ac­tivities can be housed there. 
The cost of this includes rewir­ing the electrical system, installing an elevator and re-partitioning many of the walls, among several other renovations to be made. 
Murphy held a student forum 
earlier this year at which they dis­
cussed activities the center should 
include. 
"Students said overwhelmingly 
that this campus needs a student 
center and recognized the need for 
their support," Murphy said. 
Most of the activities discussed 
are now before the committee. 
Restoration will begin in the fall of 
1982. The center is scheduled to be 
completed in the fall of 1983. 
Even though the new center is 
not yet realized, the completed 
project promises to be a valuable 
asset to Saint Mary's campus com­
munity. 



The Observer Wednesday, April 7, 1982-page 5 
McAuliffe to choose new HPC Stafffor '82-'83 
By KATIE MCDONNELL 
StaffReporter 
Steps were taken to complete the 
19H.2-IH Hall President's Council 
last night as junior Mike McAuliffe 
led his tlrst IIPC meeting in Breen­
l'hillips llall. 
McAuliffe announced that posi­tions of Executive Coordinator, Student Senate representatives and 
CI.C chairman will all he chosen in the ncar future, to supplement the .2-l-mcmher hody of hall leaders. 
'We need a good, working relationship to make it' 
Both the coordinator job and the Student Senate reps will be chosen by McAuliffe from all presidents in­terested, and then the CLC chairman will he chosen among these four. "Hopefully," McAuliffe said, "we've got alot of motivated people who can make this a really successful year." 
Also approved at the meeting was the appointment of the new HPC secretary for 1982-82, also chosen hy McAuliffe. Beginning her term last night was Mary Pat Hageman, a junior from Badin. 
Student Body President Lloyd Burke was one oftwo guest speakers for the evening, to welcome the presidents and encourage their con­tinual support. "Student Govern­ment looks to HPC to take the lead in alot ofthings," Burke said. "We need a good, working relationship to make it, and I think that we can find it." 
Burke also spoke of the recent study of socialization on campus that is being done by Student Body Vice President Bob Yonchak. Out of the eight women's dorms represented at the meeting, four dorms said that their party rooms were now being used once every other week, three dorms reported reservations of once every month, and one dorm reported ht:ing with­out a party room at all. This study is attempting to make hetter use of the party space availahlc on campus, including the possihility ofcharging fees to hoth men and women and at all future parties. 
Abo speaking at the meeting was Senior Class President Mark Mai, who announced that elections f(>r 
SJ995 single 
special room rate April 1st-30th 

1-80 (Indiana Tollway) At Exit 77 52825 U.S. 33 North South Bend. Indiana 46637 (219) 272·9000 
Give your budget a rest. 
the hall representatives to the ad­visory councils will he held Wednes­day, April 14 in each respective dorm. "The dorm ]-Boards will be conducting the elections," Mai said, "and campaigning will be on a per­sonal basis, with no poster~ at all, on Tuesday, April 1.:'>." 
The top vote-getters for each dorm will be pronounced winners, with no run-offs to be held. Anyone interested in applying for these posi­tions can contact the Student Ac­ttvtttes Office, 2nd Floor of Lafortune, by noon tomorrow, or by contacting Mai (I I H3 ), Junior Class President Mark Ruhlmann (88.:'>0) or Sophomore Class President Mark Nagy ( 1409). 
In other HPC news, an amend­ment to the HPC constitution was officially passed at the meeting last night, adding a Student Union Comptroller to the Executive Budget Committee of the Student 

juniorMIkeMeA uliffe led hisfirst HPC meeting Senate. last night in Breen-Phillips. See story at left. 

Surveyshows SMCstudents desire change inparietals 
By TONI RUTHERFORD 
News Staff 
A random survey on the current parietals system recently conducted by Saint Mary's College student government indicates that a change of the present system is desired by a majority of the Saint Mary's students polled. 
...Halls 
continuedfrom page 1 
At their own suggestion, the rec­tors now have monthly meetings among themselves which are "extraordinarily well attended," according to Van Wolvlear. 
He says the rectors can "vent 
whatever they got to vent" at these 
meetings, and knowing each other's 
feelings, can "have a sort of unanim­
ity among themselves." 
Says Van Wolvlear of the relation­ship between administration and rectors, "We have to he mutually supportive hecause we are all striv­ing for the same goal." 

Netting a 97.3 percent student response, the survey shows that, al­though the majority ofstudents feel that the present parietals system provides adequate privacy, they don't feel that an extension of hours would, in any way, lessen that privacy. An equal majority also feel that an extension would not affect the security of the dorms. 
Of the students surveyed, 75 per­cent were in favor of Sunday night and weeknight hours from 5 p.m. to lOp.m. 
It is felt that the hours that exist are stifling, resulting in a contrived social atmosphere. By extending the hours it is hoped that a more natural atmosphere would be fostered, allowing male friends to study with girls in their rooms, which are more quiet than the lounges. 
WE'LL PAY YOU TO GO INTO 


SHAPE 
HIS SUMMER. 
If you have at least two years of college left, you can spend six weeks at our Army ROTC Basic Camp thissummerand earn approximately $600. 
And ifyou q_u~lify, you can enter the ROTC 2~ Year Program this fall and receive up to $1,000 a year. 
But the big payoff happens on graduation day. That's when you receive an officer's commission. 
So get your body in shape (not to mention your bank account). 
Enroll in Army ROTC For more information, contact your Professor of Military Science. 
ARMYROTC. 
BEALLYOU CAN BE. 
··'<'"""'·'<,ft+"·····-~· 
(photo by Cheryl Ertelt) 


~-~ -----~---­
..J------------~---------~---------~­



Editorials 

Administrative reasoning 
There are popular phrases which Last year each female athlete was had to be printed up. (A real waste have contradictions built within issued ( along with her socks, shorts, since the regular book had only them. Army Intelligence, Business etc.) a detex card to operate the come out about a month before.) Ethics, Catholic University. I security system. That also makes This doesn't make sense. propose that another phrase be sense. Assuming that the equipment added to the list. Administrative This year, because ofa shortage of change was operationally independ­Reasoning. detex cards, they were issued only ent of the phone numbers, the 
to team captains. This means that ifa phone system could have been im­
Michael Molinelli team member wants to get into the proved without changing the phone locker room, and her captain is numbers. If it were necessary to either inside, in the gym or skipping change the exchange numbers, it
Examinations 
practice, she has to bang on the door would be possible to change the stu­The term "administrative" here and wait for someone to let her in. dents exchange over the summer applies specificly (but not ex­This does not make sense. when it would not affect either the clusively) to our own University ad­Because of the aggravation this students, the faculty and administra­ministration. The term also applies has caused, inside and outside the tion or the phonebook.
loosely (but not wantonly) to any locker room, these women have The faculty and the administra­member ofthe University who is not 
remedied the situation by placing a tion would have their new system a student, a professor or a squirrel. 
towel in the door to keep it ajar. and their comfortably old numbers. 
As a constant observer of things 
Thus the door is always open. The students, who are used to their innocuous and mundane, I have run I wonder why the administration numbers being changed every sum­across things in which ad­doesn't either disconnect the inef-mer anyway, wouldn't be incon­ministrative reasoning seems lack­venienced. Most importantly, Notre
fective detex system or issue more
ing. When reasoning is lacking Dame would still have its prestigious 
cards. Or is that too simplistic?

things often become silly. I <H.·­
two exchanges ... 283 and 239. Or

Recently, the faculty and ad­
casionally wonder ifsuch silliness is am I being too picky?
ministration phone system under­
the goal of/he University or merely Earlier this semester, the ad­
its very nature. went a major overhaul. Besides ministration relieved Professor Sam 
changing the equipment, the ex­
The women's varsity locker room Shapiro of his teaching duties in a
change was changed from 283 to
in the ACC is my first example. Our 
239. This means that offices which freshman seminar class. Apparently, security conscious administration have had the same number for years a couple of students took offense at 
made sure that our women athletes suddenly had new numbers. This is a the "colorful" language and state­
would not be subversively accosted great inconveince to those who are ments which did not concur with
in the privacy of their athletic 
calling long distance. Also this (gasp) Catholic doctrine. One com­boudoir by installing a 'detex card change occurred in the middle of plainer also stated that Prof. Shapiro 
system on the doors to the locker­the school year so a new phonebook actually assigned outside reading
room. That makes sense. 

Collegiate 1time tripping' 
In the April 1 issue of The Ob­hippie sitting in his VW microbus, powerful lobby and you'd expect server, not to be confused with that which happens to be up on blocks in that, but there are certain things other fine publication, The Absur­his backyard-a living memorial of about college that never change. der, there were two editorials which 
sorts.) Although the changes were Both groups would be indistin­gradual, to be sure, the differences
captured my attention. Edward Kon­guishable complaining about the rady and Randy Fahs wondered who between the early 70s and the early university keg policy. Once the cares about apathy and Joseph 80s are striking. To me it is hard to 1970 group caught on that Musumeci wrote about the ap­believe that such drastic changes bogus" and "awesome"' were propriatness ofa liberal education in have taken place so fast. the same as "far out" and "heavy" Often, for fun, when standing in
an undergraduate/graduate system. conversation would be mutually in­Combining these topics· made me front ofmy classes looking at the stu­telligible. 
think of how different university dents seated there, I think what it I don't think that the 1970 group campuses seem to be today than just would be like if they were suddenly would be very impressed hearing a short time ago. transported back in time -lets say about the student enthusiasm dis­to 1970. played during the Nestle campaignMichael T albett 1try to imagine the bewildermer.t or the barely perceptable ripples of of the well dressed collegian of discontent over El Salvador. Certain­1970, in bib overalls and white long ly there are as many things wrong in underwear top, when he learns that 1982 as there were in 1970 but
Faculty Forum 
some of these new arrivals actually today complacency rules. 
Since 1970 I've been riding the paid $37.00 for jeans or dungarees, Why are things so quiet? How are university express, chugging along back then. Perhaps even more star­students nowadays venting the col­from undergraduate degrees to 
tling would be the presence of lective energy that in the 70s was graduate degrees changing ROTC uniforms in the classroom. In released in public outcry and dis­campuses along the way but never 
1970 ROTC was very conterversial play? Personally, I don't think that getting off the train. There have and uniforms were definitely not fas­the level of apathy is any different been scenery changes since my very hionable. 
but neither do I sense any outward 

first semester and also some Appearance contrasts in dress expression ofidealism. That is not to ··agonlz'n reappraisals." (An ut­(preppy vs. army surplus) would 
say that students today are any less terance expressed so well in a tend to separate the class of82 from caring but that perhaps they are popular 7-Up commercial by an ex-70. Tht" fashion industry has a quiet because they aren't threatened in the way that military induction 
threatened students directly in the very early 70s. Yet, educational cuts in funding may change that. 
It seems as if the system that drew so much flack back then has weat­hered the storm and came out on top. I've witnessed the rise in busi­ness education enrollment and the decline in the number of liberal arts majors. 
1can't help but wonder and repeat two questions that are often asked of undergraduate university educa­tion; Are universities becoming super-sophisticated vo-techs? and what are the dangers when univer­sity matriculation becomes elitist? 
Perhaps changes in university stu­dent attitudes are cyclic and 1 simply haven't been around long enough to know that. Ifthat is true, I'll hang on to my old army field jacket. Ifit isn't, I wonder what we'd think ifthe class of 1992 paid us a visit. Surely they'd be wearing shirts with little al­ligators on them, wouldn't they? 


Wednesday, April 7, 1982-page 6 
and movies. What doesn't make sense to me is 
It seems feasible to me, that in this how this was applied to the situation great big world, there are people involving Prof. Shapiro. If the stu­who are afraid of hearing things that dents didn't like the attitude, lan­
might be different from their own guage, dresscode or breath of the viewpoints. They certainly have a professor, why didn't THEY leave? right to isolate themselves. It also Or perhaps, there's something 
seems feasible that there are people more to this that I don't tmderstand. 
who don't enjoy extra work when it can be avoided. These people are well within their rights to act also. 


Student -athlete concept becoming obsolete? 
The plight ofthe student-athlete is one ot the winningest teams in col­
sweeping the country with Digger lege football. The school has earned 
Phelps' recent disclosures of a reputation for its tough teams. 
widespread recruiting violations. Al­(During the regular season, that is. ) 
though seventeen Division I schools Much of the financial success of 
are presently on probation and more the Wolverine program goes to ath­
are inevitably to be added with letic director Don Canham. During 
future "McCatthyistic" inquisitions, his reign he has turned the Maize 
coaches and the NCAA are strug­and Blue into a sellable commodity 
gling with possible solutions to the through massive advertising cam­
problem. paigns and souvenir drives. It is 
known that the Michigan revenues 
total more than S7 million annually. 
Its football team plays to sellout 
crowds of I05,000 on a home game. 
Gregory Swiercz 
Alternatives 
What isn't readily known is the 

Two months ago in a Chicago brand-new, multi-million dollar in­Sun-Times editorial, I came across door football complex on the Ann an article pleading for a separation of Arbor campus. Its astroturf field is athletics and academics in the col­protected from the elements, allow­lege ranks. This call came in lieu of ing year-round use. the 5250,000-per-year salary of In a recent NBC newsmagazine 
newly-hired Texas A & M Head report exposing the scandalous acts Coach and Athletic Director Jackie of college sports, one southern Sherrill. The editorial defended its school's athletic dorm was referred stance stating that college athletics to as "a Hilton." Different food had become big business, using services and transportation also 
Sherrill's exorbitant salary as an ex­separated the athletes from the ample. Any athlete would in effect general college population. be "hired" by the university, alleviat­Notre Dame is a definite minority ing any academic requirements in stressing the importance of the placed upon the school. Both sides student-athlete. The Irish athletic 
would benefit from the move. Ath­program seems to be one of the letes would devote thier full more successful ones in the-country. energies to the fundamentals oftheir (success measured by athletic ex­sport. Academians would not be cellence/the athletes' education.) denied any scholarships and would Many schools settle for one of the inevitably benefit from the revenues two. Northwestern University and generated by the more the 1vy league schools keep "professional-quality'' athletic con­academics first priority. In contrast, tests. Alabama Coach Paul"Bear" Bryant is 
Never, I replied. America would on record saying he accepts never begin to tteat college athletics academically inferior students, one as professional. I was wrong. reason for this being that he wasn't U.C.L.A., the dominant force in such an outstandingstudent himself. college basketball, goes on (wo year The separation of academics and probation for recruiting violations. athletics can be a viable alternative Clemson, the National Champion in to the dilemma that pushes college football, is accused of paying athletics into the "win or else" recruitsjames Cofer andjerry Minor syndrome. Borderline to sign letters ifintent, possibly mar­scholar/athletes couW have equal 
ring an undefeated season. High opportunities to compete with 
school blue-chip basketball recruits college-age athletes. Any athlete 
acknowledge Phelps' claim that who wishes to seek an education 
coaches offer more than just could use his "earnings" to enter 
"tradition" in recruiting them. college after his four-year "job." 
College sports have gone from a Scholars would benefit by the added 
group of students interested in the revenues the "pro" athletes would 
rewards of good sportsmanship to a bring in through added endowment. 
multi-million dollar venture highly The public might not be ready to 
dependent upon rankings and na­face the insensitive realization that 
tional television. Post-season bowl college sports are "selling out" to 
games mean money; winning teams the almighty dollar. If recruiting 
mean more television exposure, violations and big-time businesslike 
which means money; stadiums are actions by colleges are any indica­
growing larger to accommodate the tion of the future, start looking for 
masses, which support the school. the best college teams money can 
The University of Michigan foot­
ball program is a good case in point. 
Under the helm of Bo Schem­
bechler, Michigan teams have been ~~ 



---, 
Wednesday, April 7, 1982-page 7


Editorials 
Don't blame the unions 

There has been, for the la.~t few years, a trend in the U.S. toward viewing labor unions as the greedy villians responsible for much of our current economic malaise. It hasn't been an obvious, organized effort, but there have been signs in the media, in the current administra· tion, and in corporate public rela· tions campaigns that subtly suggest that unions have "gotten out ofline" 
and have too much power. 
Anthony Walton 
Outside Wednesday 
l.a.~t summer's PATCO episode was an example oftht• trend. The air tralfic controllers were te<:hnically wrong to strike, and it is true that President Reagan was within his legal powers to lire the workers and decertify tht· union, but there was an unplea.~ant and insidious air of union-busting ahout the whole af. fair. Both Reagan and Transportation Sc:aetary Drew Lewis came quite dose to gloating over the demise of the union, and made it explicitly clear that an example wa.~ being made of the controllers; that message was that there was a new mood in the White House and in many parts ofthe nation toward uni· ons. 
Or consider the movement, led by Utah Senator Orrin Hatch, for a na­tional "right·to·work" law. On the surface, it is a very admirable prin· ciple: no one should be forced to join a union if they don't want to; compulsory union membership vi· olates civil rights and the liberty of 
individuals to make their own deal 
with an employer, or so the story 
goes. (And it is another brilliant 
right-wing PR phra.~e. Who could be 
against a "right to work?") But, as 
usual, the initial appeal of "right·to· 
work" doesn't hold up under close 
scrutiny. 
"Right-to-work" propaganda con· 
centrates on instances where there 
ha.~ been a lengthy strike and some 
workers wanted to work while the 
majority (the union) was on strike, 
or it focuses on some Industry 
where a closed shop has led to 
"Inflated labor costs." In the strike 
example, there is usually a worker 
who claims that he liked things at 
the plant just fine, or that he needed 
and wanted to support his family 
(playing to anti-welfare hyperbole) 
and that the union wouldn't let him. 
The worker claims a "right· to· 
work." Other ads have told how 
American labor costs so much that 
companies have to go overseas to 
get "fair" labor rates in order to com· 
pete with !(>reign goods. 
The problem with "right·to· 
work" and most other anti-union 
moves is that, to be valid, they must 
assume an economy with full 
employment. What this means is 1 
that If full employment did exist, 
then there would be a true market 
climate for worker services. If a 
worker did not like what he was 
being paid, he would be free to go 
somewhere else and negotiate for 
more t pay if his skills merited such a 
raise. There would be a job waiting for him, and rate of compensation would be based on his market value. In reality, however, there is no such market. With 9 percent un· 
employment (the highest level since 
the Depression) workers are in ef. 
feet held hostage in their jobs. 
(Consider the story of the Rath Cor· 
poration in Dubuque, Iowa. The 
workers were forced to buy the 
company or else have it closed.) If 
someone has a gripe with his 
employer, he can't "vote with his 
feet" (as Reagan is fond of saying) 
and leave, because there will not be 
another job waiting. This is where 
unions come in. Unions allow the 
worker to gain leverage against the 
employer. Critics of unions claim 
that unions have unfair monopolies 
on labor, but this is untrue, because 
if this is a true capitalistic society, 
then workers are free to form as· 
sociations to bargain for their com· 
ponent of production. As the union 
critics call it, free competition. 
Unions are further justified when 
one looks at the history of lahor· 
management relations. Unions came 
about to rectify gross injustices on 
the part of management toward 
labor. If management had been fair 
to begin with, there would have 
never been a need for unions. And 
there is still a need, as anyone who 
has worked in blue-collar industry 
can attest. The adversarial relation· 
ship between labor and manage· 
ment is as old as American industry 
itsell: and cannot be expected to 
change. There is simply too must 
mistrust on the part of both parties. 
Management can be expected (and 
in a capitalistic society, justifiably) 
to try and take every possible ad· 
vantage including exploitation in 
the form of low wages, and unions can he expected to fight for their own advantages. It is the nature of the system. 
Who bears the brunt of manage· ment stupidity? Labor, not manage· ment. In the American auto industry, the cost of labor as a component in new car prices has not increased in 2S years, yet labor is portrayed as the greedy villian bankrupting Detroit. In fact, the villian is the ar­fOgant, gluttonous, and lazy manage· ment of the companies that failed to stay on top of developments in the market. But, who gets laid oft? Who loses jobs when management moves production to authoritarian Third World t countries in order to exploit 
cheap labor? Who is asked (told) to renegotiate contracts or else? Who pays for decisions they had no input into? Labor does, and that is why it ha.~ the right to negotiate the best 

'VA~' riNf tl.KTICtl FolKS. SlOt'/ M'E. lo Y<AJR (1.1~11.5' ' 
possible contract, even if manage­ment thinks it unfair. (Besides, if the company truly couldn't afford its labor, it would close. One ofthe laws ofcapitalism. ) 
That is also why the anti-labor mood is both wrong and dangerous. Americans need domestic industry for jobs and national security, and workers in that industry need protection from abuses in a capitalis­tic, exploitative economy. Unions are by no means angelic good guys protecting the exploited; many uni· ons are as corrupt as the companies they oppose. But, there is no better alternative, and our current problems cannot be blamed on labor. As union critics say, they're only the workers, they don't own or manage the companies, the ex­eutives and stockholders do. And that is where most of the blame lies in our economic ms. 

Stringduo reviewfar off mark 

DearEditor: 
I was appalled by an article that appeared in last Monday's issue ( .3· 22·82) ofthe Observer. The article titled "Technique riddles string duo" couldn't have been farther off the mark in its commentary and decorum. The blatantly nasty in­vective was uninformed musically and critically. By what authority can such a piece of writing be seriously considered? Certainly not by any ofthose in attendance at 
the concert. Not only were the comments by Mr. Brewer uncriti· cal, non-critical and snotty, but also deceptive as well. 
In the only concrete statement that he could muster (a descrip· tion of the performance of the Briggs' Trio) he presumed to know intimately the score and its charac­teristics. As this performance was the premiere, any familiarity would be quite impossible. Moreover, a conversation with the composer would quickly dispel any notions of the music seeming "cerebral." The <:omposer, by the way, considered the performance excellent and completely ef­fective. Maybe Mr. Brewer should call the composer to confirm this. 
~"' ' 

fact, before he misinforms the public in the future. 
As any other audience member that night could and did say, the Duo played effectively, and convincingly. The performance wa.~ confident and sure at every step. For example, the Kodaly "Duel ofViolin and Cello" requires a crisp yet simple style that will bring out the folk rhythms so cru· cial to the piece's meaning and musical impact. The stylistic demand may be realized only from long, hard work not only with the score but also in study of the broader context in which the piece was conceived. The folk rhythms and their fragmented in· tegration within the larger themes of the work form the basis for any effective interpretation. The 
Bradv/Stalker Duo not only ack· nowledged these essential factors, 

ReconsiderMacintyre 
DearEditor: 
A recent issue of the Scholastic Magazine informed us of the case of Professor Alasdair Macintyre and the decision of the administra· tion not to pursue the opportunity of bringing Professor Macintyre to our campus. On the assumption that the facts of the case have been adequately and accurately reported, I am writing to ask the administration to reconsider its decision. As a priest, seminary 
educator,  and  a  studenl  of  
philosophy  these  four  years  at  
Notre  Dame,  I  am  saddened  to  

learn that Notre Dame cannot find a place for the talents of Professor Macintyre. I also ask the studenls of Notre Dame, graduates and un· dergraduates, who have even a remote interest in philosophy, to examine the many good hooks and articles which Professor Macintyre has written to see what we arc mis· sing. A department of philosophy as good as the one we have here at Notre Dame deserves the chance to number a fine thinker like Professor Macintyre among its own talent<:d ranks. This is an im· 
portant issue. 
Rev. Lee). Monroe 
Brownson Hall but displayed complete con· lidence in their musical co· ordination and concept. Anyone with ears recognized this fact im· mediately. 
Mr. Brewer, were you really at the concert? Did you have a bad day? Arc wild and irrational attacks common to your temperment? Perhap~ the University can provide help for you. At the very least you could open your ears at the next concert even if you did tlnd it too difficult to open your mind. 
Thomus Leff 
Department of Communication & Theatre 

Editor's note: Dexter Brewer received a B.A. in Music from Yale University in 1979. The 
Features Editor ami  many  on  
campus  consider  him  a  
critic.  

==Ihe=Obseaer== Editorial Board Department Managers 
The ObJerver is an independent newspaper published by the students of the 
Editor-in-Chief. ............................. Michacl Monk Business Mmwger ...........................Tony Aiello 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily 
Managing Editor................Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller............. . ................ Eric St·hulz 
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report· 
Executir>e News Etlitor ......................... Kelli Flint Advertisin,~ Manager .......................Chris Owen 
ed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of 
SMC Nell'S Editor..................... Margarct Fosmoe Production Manager ..................Maura Murphy 
a majority of the Editorial Board. Co.nmentaries, opinions and letters are the views 
Sports Editor...................................Chris Needles Circulation Manager ..........................Ray Inglin
of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and 
Editorials Editor .............................Paul McGinn Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley 
the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encour:1ged. 
Features Editor ...................................Tari Brown Pboto Editor ...................................Rachel Blount 
Founded November 3. 1966 P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
~~ --~----------~---------------,~------------------------------------------------------------------------­
,; . 

···································,············································ 
-i 8 


' _sH0 W ( A~SiiiiEiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiwectiiiinesctaiiiiy,
Apiiiiiril7,iiiii
9s2iiiiiipaiiiiiige 

, ) 
Tune in for "Job Search" 
• l 
I 
:~ 
""J"'he late sportswriter Red Smith 
.l may have only received one response to his 80 inquiries to various newspapers for employment 

Mary flgnes Carey 
features­
(theNew York Times-and they said "no"), but his track record wasn't going to stop me. After all, it never hurts to ask. 
Obtaining a B.A. degree in English Literature and Writing isn't the usual preparation for a career in jour­nalism, but an editorship with The Obseroer and a summer internship with thr: South Bend Tribune only intensified my desire for a newspaper job. When spring break arrived, I packed my bags to look for 
'I 
employment in the "Big Apple." 
It was Monday ofvacation when I trooped into the Roosevelt Hotel to make the first round ofphone calls. Dressed in the gray suit and black pumps, I was only about a third of the way through my well-rehearsed spiel ("Hello, I'm Mary Agnes Carey, I'll be in New York City for a couple ofdays and I sent my resume and clips to you for your considera­tion ...) when the man from the 
New York DailyNews interrupted 
me. 
"You want a job?" he asked. 
"Yes," I replied, knowing a little 
about theNews' failing financial 
situation yet thinking I'd still give it a 
try. 
"Just a minute," he chuckled, 
while I waited on hold, envisioning 
the man shouting aloud to the rest of 
the newsroom, "Someone on five 
wants ajob!" 
"In case you haven't heard," an­other voice began, "theNews has been in a little trouble. We're going to layoff 1,300 employees if the uni­on gives us the concessions we want and then we might still be folding. Where are you from, kid, anyway?" 
"Kokomo, Indiana." "Go back home. Hell, you can be a publisher in the Midwest." I don't know if that's true, but he didn't discourage me too much. The 

Trivia Quiz XXII 
""J"'he last quiz, on bookend records 1. For Those About to Rock We 
.l (those which both preceded Salute You by AC/DC -Foreigner and followed a record to the top), 4 had a couple ofeasy ones, a couple 
2. "I Feel Fine" by the Beatles­"Come See About Me" by the Supremes 
3.Rock ofthe Westies by Elton john -Red Octopus by Jefferson Starship 
4. Paradise Theater by Styx -Hi

of not-so-easy ones, and others 
Infidelity by REO Speedwagon

which were somewhere in the middle. Here are the answers, the 5. "Fly, Robin, Fly" by Silver Con­sandwichee followed by the vention-"That's the Way (I Like sandwicher: It)" by KC. and the Sunshine Band 
Extra, extra! Read all aboutit! 
SHOWCASE presents, 
Trivia Quiz 


in an expanded form. Pickup next WEDNESDAY 's issue and see. 
6. 
"Respect" by Aretha Franklin­"Groovin"' by the Young Rascals 

7. 
"Brandy (You're a Fine Girl)" by Looking Glass-"Alone Again (Naturally)" by Gilbert O'Sullivan 

8. 
SimpleDreams by Linda Ronstadt -Rumours by Fleetwood Mac 

9. 
"Too Much Heaven" by Bee Gees -"Le Freak" by Chic 


lO.LedZeppelinii-AbbeyRoad 
by the Beatles Anyone who is a long-time reader will note that the quiz below is a repeat ofa previous idea, although all the quiz questions are new. This consists of ten weird, outrageous, or otherwise unusual album titles. Identify the artist ofeach. 
1./fAn Angel Came to You, Would You Make HerFeel atHome? 2.All the Girls in the World Beware! 
3. 
TheLowSparkofH ighHeeled Boys 

4. 
You Can'tArgue with a Sick Mind 

5.1 
Got Dem Ol' Kozmik Blues Again Mama! 

6. 
Funkentelechy vs. the Placebo Syndrome 


7. Ogden's Nut Gone Flake (This also had an unusual album cover to go along with its strange name. What was odd about it?) 
8. Bless Its Pointed LittleHead 
9. Genuine Imitation Life Gazette 
lO.A 

News wasn't the only paper in New 
York City so I just kept calling. 
Everyone told me that journalism is 
a tough field to get a start in but 
when you're 22 and can't think of 
doing anything else, you aren't 
stopped easily. 
And people responded. The New York Times, Gannett Newspapers, ABC and both wire services gave me interviews. Interviews with sugges­tions and encouragement, that is. Not jobs. 
I heard "ifI had a job I'd give it to you" more than once, so maybe there was some substance to the statement. Others were even more complimentary. 
"You're the most bright-eyed, bushy-tailed, eager, intelligent, artic­ulate kid I've met this year," one man told me, but the adjectives didn't stop there. "You're eager, a go­getter, ambitious, assertive, hard­working, dedicated and a trustworthy young woman, too," he continued. I should have worn my boots. 
I did get tired ofthe same black 
pumps and grey suit; ofwalking 
around New York with not too 
much money, killing time between 
interviews; and ofphoning 
newspapers from posh hotels with 
quiet, secluded phone booths, but I 
still want a job in journalism. The 
search has continued since I've been 
back at Saint Mary's, with more let­
ters, calls for interviews, and con­
stant inquiries for a journalism job. 
Who knows ... maybe I'll even get 
one soon ... . 



Happy Birthday 
doesn't alter image 
H
appy Birthday, the new album The title track ofHappy Birthday 
by UK quintet Altered Images, is is easily the album's best song. It's a 
chock full ofgreat ideas, but never bouncy pop tune, coming across as 
lives up to its potential. Clare's vo­sincere and sarcastic at the same 
cals are uncontrolled and childish time. "Real Toys" has Clare spitting 
throughout, and each song sounds out gleeful trash about sadistic boys. 
On this number, her twisted vocals 
work well (for a change), accented 
'] by a guitar line copped from any 
children's song. 
But aside from these two stand­

0 outs,Happy Birthday is an un­
finished album. The music never like its own warm-up exercise. As gels. Each song verges on the perfect the album progresse_s, her voice hook, but doesn't quite find it. Per-loses its novelty and becomes more haps Altered Images is destined to and more grating. Jim and Tony's be a "singles band -the kind of guitars are sometimes eerie, band that sporadically releases great sometimes choppy, but always right singles like "Happy Birthday," but on target. whose albums are substandard. 
----~--~----------~~-------­
! 
1 

..... -..·. ~' 
_ 

......, ., \ .....
~ 
·"<

.... . ,•· .;..~'9 i. " ·~ " "' ._,_ ;':!'~' 
.0•
'· 

..,_ ;,
·r il q \I,f 
.1 ~-: y'·'=-:o".i.-! "tt i-i:" ~-"' ·:~· 
·"!WW' FY~..._,. -....~t!i\.·-··_:.t.,.: -~:-~Jr?i ··->?:~Jit;'~Jfi>"•-::-!~~·t;t:'-~~-­


Red Smith simply wrote 
W
alter Wellesley Smith, of the 
class of 1927, said that as a 
student the person he most 
admired at Notre Dame was 
ProfessorJohn M. Cooney. Since 
Red Smith's line oftrade was that of sports writer you might think he would have chosen Knute Rockne. 
Edward Fischczr 

Doc Cooney, as chairman of the Journalism Department, tried to get students to care more ahout writing than ahout sports. In Smith's case he may have succeded. Red went on to hecome known as the best sports writer of all time and winner ofa Pulitzer Prize. 
When I came to Notrt• Dame, a decade aftu Rt·d's time, Professor Cooney was still teaching. He had hecn at it long enough to know that the weaknesses ofeach generation are much the same. He had concluded that if at the Last Judgment we must account for every idle word, as the scriptures warn, then most of us will he husy late into the night. 
During an examination period 
he announced: "Only ten minutes 
left. You can't write much in ten 
minutes but you can cross out a 
great deaL" 
He wanted us to be specific. No 

vague gohbledygook for him. He 
liked to see a sentence so definite 
that it would cast a shadow. 
The advice he gave most often was: "Have something to say, say it, and he done with it!" He began that sentence with hands poised a foot apart, and brought them together with a resounding slap as he hit the last word. 
Red Smith followed Doc Cooney's advice so well that in uni­versity classes all over the country English teachers read aloud his sports columns as examples of good writing. They would have heen pleased to hear Red say, "The English language, if handled with respect, scarcely ever poisons the user." 
In describing his job he wrote: "The sports writer frequently falls victim to the occupational ailmem ofoverwriting. lie strains for the unusual 'angle,' gropes for the sprightly phrase, and, overreach­ing, pitches overboard into a purple waste of mixed metaphors. Some of the hcst writing that ap­pears in newspapers shows up on the sports page alonside some of the most cxecrahlc. 

Silbll!)' Bruhl (Michael Caine) shows Clifford Anderson (Christ(~pher Reer•e) how to twist free from Houdini's handcuffs. 
"A sports writer should remind 
himself frequently that it's only a 
game, and that the natural habitat 
of the tongue is the left cheek. And 
he must shun the frumious cliche." 
As an example of his tongue-in­
cheek style I quote from a column 
titled "Food for the SouL" In it Red 
describes an art exhibit he at­
tended. The pictures were to he 
auctioned off by the Urban League 
for charity. Celebrities had been 
asked to paint them for the auc­
tion. Since some of the celebrities 
earned their livelihood through 
sweaty pursuits, Red Smith felt he 
had a right to attend the exhibit. 
He said, in part: "The signatures on most of the paintings are very large." 
"Jackie Robinson's is entitled. 'Baseball Park.· It interprets the libidinal sublimation of a left­handed centerfielder who has been hit by a line drive. The diamond is shaped like a large capi­tal A. A kingsize baseball hangs in the sky. Flags on the grandstand roof indicate that the wind is blowing in opposite directions." 
Adozen years ago while reading the "Sunday Magazine" of the New York Times I came upon an article exceptionally well written. As I got deeper and deeper into it I kept thinking of how very good it was. Turning hack to the start, I was delighted to see the byline of Terence Smith, one of my former students. Red's son, Terry, was 
graduated from Notre Dame in 
1960 and is now senior correspon­
dent in the Washington Bureau of 
the New York Times. 
In a recent letter, Terry told me 
that his father often spoke to him 
about Doc Cooney. I'll bet he told 
his son, "You don't know how to 
write until you learn to rewrite," 
one of Cooney's favorite admoni­
tions. The writings of both Smiths, 
father and son, reflect plenty of 
rewriting. 
Wherever Doc Cooney or Red Smith arc I hoped they notice that I rewrote this several times. 
"Several! That's too indefinite a 
word," they will say with indigna­
tion. 
Oh well, three times -is that 
definite enough? 

Filtn builds its ou;n Deathtrap 
T)icturc this: Sidney Bruhl is the r writer's-block-ridden playwright who would kill for a hit. Deathtrap. Coincidentally, Clifford Anderson is the gifted young playwright who has shown Sidney -and no one else ­his first play, a sure-fire hit. Deathtrap. Ira Levin is the actual 
playwright who took this idea and turned it into the longest running mystery in the history of Broadway theater. Deathtrap. And unfortunate­ly li>r us, Sidney l.umet is the talented tilm director who lazily tran~lated tht· sure-tire hit into a daustrophobic dud ofa movie. 
/Jeathtrap. 
Tht· ba.~ic prt·mise ofthe 111m con· cern~ playwright Sidney (Michael Caint· ), his neurotic wife Myra llaw ol the 111m come~ lrom Lumet's over-reliance on these plot twists to provide the sole pace of the tllm. In ell'eci, the movie has become in­curably stagebound, offering the audience no chance to suspend dis­belieffor even a second and, in turn, feel any sort ofempathy toward the d1aracters. 
l.umet opens the drama only once in an establishing sequence about Sidney's latest bomb that ends up being supcrlluous to the entire tllm. from that point on, l.umet enters the Bruhl household and stays there for what seems to be nothing short of forever. The second reel is mostly a clutter ofexposition made nonsensi­cally llashy by l.umet's "look at me" camera technique. At one point in the film while Sidney is on the phone with Clillord, l.umet revolves around his subject about a dozen times creating a shot that says no­thing more than let's revolve around the subject a dozen times. 
Lumet's camerawork is not the 

close-up, it's simply ridiculous. Dyan Cannon scores the most points for over-acting as she llails her arms about her person feeding bubbly straight lines to her black-witted husband. Caine, on the other hand, 
. makes use ofevery chance to ex­plode like a cockney firecracker over any and all issues. Irene Worth as contrived psychic Helga ten Dorp seems to have been taken out of some Burt Reynolds outtake. ller outrageous accent and knack for coming into the scene whenever the plot needs bailing out make her the least believable character yet. 
Only Christopher Reeve has enough tllmic reserve to create a believable and satisfying character. Reeve, however, seems to have been exploited for a number ofcheap shots the script has no qualms about : calling li.JC. Even so, Reeve handles · the role with a dignity and subtlety that makes one appreciate the depth he brought to Superman. 
In the end, Deathtrap remains a 



$29,500 
' 'Good old days ' ' cost us more 
T
he place where I used to buy a new Ford station wagon every three years is now a Volkswagen dealership. I was driving by the other day and wondered how much a Volkswagen diesel station wagon cost, so I stopped in to look at the signs on the car windows. 

The car costs more than SI0,000, and inasmuch as I wouldn't pay SI0,000 for a Cadillac, I certainly wouldn't put out that price li>r a Volkswagen. The last time I priced Volkswagens they were S I, 700 and it's hard for me to get that figure out of my mind. 
It turns out that my former Ford-dealer-turned-Volkswagen· mer­chant was also selling a line ofjaguars, the classy British car. 
Now, I'm not one of those people who goes around all the time talking about "the good old days" when you could get a steak dinner for S:\.95, but there are some prices in 19H.2 that I can't get used to. The Jaguar I found myself looking at in the Volkswagen lot had a sticker price of S.29,500. 
A_n_d_Y_R_o_o_n_cz_v________~ 
The single most important price in my life is $.29,';00. I paid that just once when we bought the house we still live in. That was 1952. I looked at thejaguar and laughed. I'd love to own it, but right then and there I made myself a promise. 
"I, Andrew A. Rooney, do hereby solemnly swear that even ifl get rich I'll never buy a car that costs as much as the house we've lived in li.>r :\0 years." 
Our house has eight rooms, three hathrooms, a two-car garage and years ofacculumated junk in the hasement and the attic. For the same price, the car has four doors, a cigarette lighter, I suppose, no bathrooms, no kitchen and no basement. 
lnllation has never bothered me much because, li>rtunately, by income has generally intlated at the same speed as the economy. I never gained much on prices but I never lost ground, either. When egg noodles went up to 79 cents, I got a raise. My wife keeps talking about how much groceries are costing but she never congratulates me on increasing my bring-home pay. (I bring it home; Idon'ttake it home.) 
The big trick that Americans arc learning is how not to huy a lot of new things all the time. We aren't buying as many new cars because we're getting our kicks out of keeping our old ones. More and more you hear people speaking with pride in the fact that their Chevy is seven years old. 
"She's got 84,000 miles on her and runs as good as the day I bought her." 
Ten years ago, one out of every five Americans was moving each year. That figure has declined sharply. More Americans are staying in their old houses. They paid 55 I ,000 for it eight years ago and they could get SH5,000 for it on the market today, but then they'd have to pay $127,000 tor a new one the same size tomorrow. Americans arc beginning to do the scnsihle thing with their money. That's what's ruining the economy. 
For my part, there are high prices I get used to and high prices I'll never get used to. The price ofa gallon ofgas no longer bothers me. To payS 1.20 doesn't seem like too much for a gallon ofsomethingso powerful that it will push me and my car (my old car) I H miles. 
I'll never get used to hotel room prices, though. for a place to sleep for the night, SH-l seems like an awful lot. On the other hand, the small price a newspaper has to pay for three columns a week from me is one of the best buys left on earth. 
CupyriKht I 'JK2 The Chh.:aMo Tnhunt: 

1982 
~­


( Dyan Cannon), and talented former 
only thing in the tllm that is bound to 111m that can be recommended only 
Mudent Clillord (Christopher 
the stage. The acting in the tllm is to those mystery nuts who can't get 
Reeve). But, very little can be added 
done in an overblown style that enough of the plot twists and 


$29,500
to this description without stealing 
might look good under a pros­suspense a whodunnit of this sort 
from the many twists that contort 
cenium arch about two hundred feet has to offer. Just don't go in expect­
the plot without mercy. The basic 
away, but in a dazzling Hollywood ing Hitchcock. 
--------------------------..­


~~()f4tS=f=)=r==i=~~~S=============================w=ed=n=es=d=~~·~=p=ri=l7=,t=9=sz===p=ag=e==Io
By The Ohsen•er and The Associated Press 
-----~­


The Irish lacrosse gameagainst Ashland College 
originally scheduled for today has been rescheduled for tomorrow at 3:.30 p.m. There is also a game Saturday at 1:30 p.m. against Woos­ter College. Both games will be played on Cartier field. -The Ob­server 
The Rowing Club of Notre Dame will hold a general meeting tonight at 8:30 p.m. in the Little Theatre of LaFortune. All members are required to attend. Bring checkbooks to pay for In­dianapolis trip. Will also discuss election of next year's officers, which is ofextreme importance. -The Observer 
The SecondAnnualAn Tostal GolfTournament will be held Tuesday, April 20, at 1 p.m. on the Burke Memorial Golf Course. Prizes will be awarded for the low score in both the men's and women's division, and for-closest-to-the-pin on one hole. Regis­ter by calling 8647 before Monday, April 19. There is a nominal entry fee. -The Observer 
An Tostal Ultimate Frisbee tournament 
deadline for the first-round games has been extended to include Tuesday, April 13. The rest of the deadlines remain unchanged, however. For more information, calljoh11 at 8641. -The Obseroer 
The Fellowship of Christian Athletes 
forum with ND Hockey Coach Lefty Smith for tonight has been res­cheduled for next Wednesday, April 14 in Zahn Hall Chapel at 8:30 
p.m. -The Obseroer 
The Golfteamwill play in the Indianapolis Intercollegate Tournament at Eagle Creek GolfCourse in Indianapolis on April 10. 
-The Observer 
The Sailing Clubwill meet today in the Howard Hall Social Space at 6:30p.m. New members are welcome. -The Ob­server 
The Rugby Clubplays Purdue's A and B team at 4 p.m. today behind Stepan Center. The team lost its only match last week. 
-The Obseroer 

Saint Mary's College has two sporting events on Tuesday, April 13. The softball team plays Earlham.College at 3 p.m. at home, the track team will have a meet against Manchester College at 4 p.m., also at home. -The Observer 
The Irish baseballteamwill have a chance to drasti­cally improve its record over Easter break. They play Bethel tomor­row and Ball State Monday away from home, and Purdue Saturday at home. All games are doubleheaders. -The Obseroer 
The Men's Tennis team has a busy schedule over Easter break. Tomorrow they play Purdue and Friday the Notre Dame Quadrangular starts with Wisconsin-Oshkosh, Northern Il­linois. and Bowling Green. Sunday, the team takes on Indiana, Mon­day they face Western Michigan, and Tuesday they host Indiana State. All the matches are at home. -The Observer 
Annapolis, MD is the next stop for the Notre Dame track team. The Irish ace Navy in a dual meet Saturday. -The Observer 
Yesterday's Results 
Stepan 1 
Phyllis and the P1ps over F1ve Well Hung Jurors by 11 W1ndex. the Glass Cleaners over Goose by 7 LIZZie Borden and the Hatchet Men over Premature Shooters by 17 
Pemsauns and the Four Sk1ns over H.J. Connec­
liOn by forfeit 
Stepan2 
Bnck Throwers over The Nads by 12 
Strok1ng lnsh Come Aga1n over R1ver C1ty Res1due 
Returns by 14 
Endangered Feces over Natalie Wood and the 
Necrophlllacs by 17 
Anonymous over Two Pats and Three P1nches by 6 
Stepan3 
The Genenc Un1t over Dr. Bob and the All-Star 
Goatsby8 
We re St1ll Not Domers over Fr Mano Ped1 and His 
Barber Shop Quartet by 5 
The Rat Pack over Pack1n It by 9 
The Ox and the Hot Shoot~ng Z-men II over F1ve 
Guys Named Moe by 11 Stepan 4 Two Dogs and a Coke For a Buck over Jerry s K1ds by 18 D1p and the Oockless Wonders over Clyde the Glyde and the Hornble Honkeys by 11 The Blood Suck1ng Monk1es over Jerry Mathers and the Beaver Cleavers by 17 Sim1lac and the Four Dead Bab1es over lntest1nal Blasts by 4 Stepan5 Coach Gypo s Pervone Heads over The Boxer 
Rebellion Makes a Bnef Appearance by 9 
Beer Bongs over F1ve Slow White Guards by 10 
B1ll Pucell and the Voyagers over P1ssvar and H1s 
Golden Wave by 4 Agent Orange and the Aher Effects over If You Can I Beat Us, You Suck by 6 Stepan& Hawkins and the Bad Asses over Pistols of Love by 
9 
Were Short But Slow over J.T.J. by 2 
M1tch sand R1ch s S.O.B.sover The~r Meat by 11 
Peanut Butter Legs over The New Feder~s~ by 
See SPORTSBORD, page 12 

The Obaerver will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30p.m. However, clas­sifieds to be run in the next issue must be received by 3p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All clas­sifieds must be prepaid. either in person or through



Classifieds the mail. 

NOTICES  LOST-Pa~r of w~re-nmmed glasses 1n brown case~ Somewhere between the law school and the park1ng lot just south of the  LOST: A GOLD CHAIN AND CRUCIFIX AT THE ROCKNE SWIM OFFICE 'LOST ON TUESDAY MARCH 23.  PERSONALS  El:l know you really want to be your own g~rl.  Dear Spnng, Where did you go? How can we f1msh the bookstore tournament 1n several  
eng1neenng bUIId•ng.ll f~nd.call  M1ke at  1982.  IF ··FOUND  PLEASE  RETURN  RA, you Te~as turkey! Ill get even w1th  Inches at snow? This IS nd1culous! Please  
$50,000-$80.000 PER YEAR Are you bored with your JOb: t~red of work1ng for the other man Nat1onal company based 1n Lex1ngton. KKentucky looking for f1ve diStributors 1n seven-county aarea. Call1· 800-9594 ATTENTION! ATTENTION! 2 Riders needed to St Cloud, Minn (or anywhere thereabouts) for Easter break. Call7951 or 6713 HAIRCUTS! ONLY $4 FOR GUYS AND $6 FOR GIRLS -­LOT OF EXPERIENCE IN STYLING, ROTC AND PERSONALLY DESIGNED CUTS FOR YOUR FACE AND HAIR. CALL MICHOLE AT 7951 LADIES: Mad Dog s escorl serv1ce now operat­Ing 1n the South Bend area. Safe, ef­fective, reasonably pnced, very 'European serv1ces offered Mad Dog h•mself 1s often descri)Jed as 'the con nos­suer of the sweetest fru1ts of h1s age. and ··a man of g1ant strengths and des1res .. Call 3335 to ach1eve personal serv1ces of vanous sorts.  287-7781. LOST: wh1le go1ng to St. Ed s from the library, a black cross pen w1th the 1n111als K.J C If found please call Kev1n at 8858 GREEN NOTEBOOK (pocket type) LOST on tues or wed. Important matenal IS enclosed. Contact Dan Upton, 207 St. Ed s, x8822 Lost: Blue Chaucer Canterbury Tales Text 1n South D1mng Hall on March 25 Tales are wnnen 1n Middle English. Great Sentimental Value. If found. call J1m 3684. FOUND. Cross penc11 Tues. 3-30 1n E.G. Aud call M1ke 3242 LOST: BASKETBALL. MacGregor X­6000, in VICinity of Stepan center Bnan x6261 LOST A PAIR OF GLASSES BETWEEN PANGBORN AND THE STADIUM FRIDAY NIGHT APRIL 2 NEED THESE TO SEE!!! PLEASE CALL 284-4519 REWARD!II  TO 828 GRACE HALL OR CALL JOHN AT 6721­NO QUESTIONS WILL BE ASKED HAS MUCH SENTIMENTAL VALUE A1ders needed to Buffalo. Syr, Oswego. NY area Will leave Thurs at noon. Call Jack at 3662-3661 I need nde to Milwaukee/MadiSOn area · for break X 8837 Need nders to and from NYC Area. Leav1ng Thurs 8 returmng Wednesday evemng the 14. Share usual Call MIChael 239·5713 $$$GEO DEPT needs tents for a weekend field tnp, Apnl 16, 17,18 If you can rent us a tent call x6886 FOR SALE USED BOOK SHOP HOURS WED .  ,  LYONS HALL FOODSALES OFFERS THE BEST IN FRESH, THICK CRUST PIZZA DELIVERED ANYWHERE OON SOUTH QUAD FOR THE NOMINAL CHARGE OF ON SOUTH QUAD FOR THE NOMINAL DELIVERY CHARGE OF THURSDAY NIGHTS FROM 9:30 TO 11 AND ORDER YOURS. ALSO: EVERY WEDNESDAY NIGHT IS GUEST CELEBRITY NIGHT WITH WELL­KNOWN CAMPUS-FIGURES WORKING THE COUNTER I MIKE GURDAK FOR U.M.O.C••••.•HE REALLY WANTS ITIIII Happy b-day T1mo, the W1ND NUDE WATERSKIERS FOR CHRIST. a new concept 1n team basketball, w111 be 1n act1on next Tuesday. Don I m1ss your (only) chance to NEED CREDIT? lntormat1on on rece1v1ng V1sa. Master­card, w1th no cred1t check. Other t cards ava1lable Free Brochure call Pubhc Credit Serv1ce: (602) 949-0276. Ext 766 REPENT AND SAVEST YOUR  you! Sally Bowles -­1ve changed my m1nd. I th1nk you should have the baby. You are the worlds craz1est g1rl Do you have any tdea what 1t s l1ke to be 1n love w1th the worlds craz1est g1rl? ·· Cliff Bradshaw What good IS Silting alone 1n your room? L1fe 1sn t that long a stay. Come to the Cabaret. old chum. Life IS a Cabaret!! Tickets on sale starting Apnl 5, for the N.D Student Players performance of the Broadway hll CABI\RET Come to the Cabaret!I! What good is sitting alone in your room when you could be supporting the stu­dent players? Come to the Cabaret! Choreography.... Colleen Quinn Vocals .... Anita Rsmker Conducted by.... Bob ODonnell Produced by.... Ed McNally Directed by a guy named Jeff (and a great guy, too.) March 15-18. Wash•ngton Hall  come back! A cold Domer Simon haa been atuffadlll Yesterday I rece1ved the p1ctures wh1ch pushed us over the goal of 25 for An los­tal s Frame Stuff~ng Contest .. but don I let that stop you from entenng. Th1s IS the last week to subm1t your 1)name. 2)address. and 3)photo to: Stuff S1mon c/o Jeb Cash1n P 0. BoxQ • The Observer Thanks tO Man Blowzak. Rich. Chuck Van A , Steve. Karl, John. Art, James. Manfred. Kelly. and John A for jo~nmg! STEREO EQUIP USE YOUR TAX OR GRAD MONEY TO GET YOUR OWN STEREO OR SIMPLY A NEW COMPONENT: BOSE. NIKKO. JVC THE BEST EQUIPMENT AT PRICES FOR STUDENTS ONLY. EVEN FREE SET UP AND THE USUAL FULL FACTORY WARRANTY CALL J B EVES. AT 8232.8228,8213 FOR MORE DETAILS DON T WAIT ANY LONGER!  
FREE FACIAL! Natural Skin Care Program. Jafra Cosmectics. Penny Pen­rod 291-8310. DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE TO AND/OR FROM PORTLAND.ORE AREA ABLE TO LEAVE ANYTIME AF­TER GRADUATION. WOULD LIKE TO RETURN WKEND OF JUNE 11TH. IF YOURE GOING THAT WAY & HAVE  Need nde to Lousv1lle. Can leave Wed. af­ter noon Call AI at 1782 FOR RENT ...  SAT. SUN 9-7 CASPERSON 1303 BUCHANAN AD , NILES MEN-Show your lady you care w1th a g1ft of spnng·-a bouquet of fresh cut flowers delivered each week for 4 weeks. WED­NESDAY'S FLOWERS 289·1211 Refngerator. med1um SIZed. good cond . 1 yr old. $125, call272-0674  PENNIES, FOR UMOC COMETH ND/SMC SENIOR GIRLS NIGHT OUT Tuesday April 20 w1th FAST FREDDY & THE PLAYBOYS at the Mus1c Box. 120 W Mishawaka Avenue. Refreshments and first keg free. No men adm1t1ed until 11 :00 p m Advance 11ckets $8 00. on sale now at R1ver C1ty Records. 50970 US 31 North.  NEEDED, 1 RIDER TO WILKES-BARRE. SCRANTON, OR THE BINGHAMTON AREA FOR EASTER BREAK.LEAVE EARLY THURS. AFTERNOON. CALL KATHY2842 BUCKY: WHO S YOUR BUDDY? DON T BE POUTIN CUZ WE MISSED YOUR 19th BIRTHDAY. WE LOVE YA. BABY LUV, THE SEX GODDESSES  For thoae students who are still In­terested In becoming a member of next year's CLASS ADVISORY COUNCILS, but missed the meeting on Tueeday night, you have until THURSDAY, APRIL 8 to contact: CLASS OF: '83-Mark Malat1183 •84 -Mark Ruehltnann or Bob Thompson at 8830  
EXTRA ROOM. ,PLEASE CALL ME-­WILL SHARE USUAL KEVIN-3369.  Student hous•ng--clean, safe. $100/mo 291-\405.  STREET NAME SIGNS-your name-any legend up to 13 spaces Looks like Notre Dame Av s1gn $1·7 75$2 00 hdlg. IN or·  see the hams 1n LIVERSWURST on Apnl 6 and 7 1n the Little Theatre at SMC  ATTENTION 6B FLANNER! Good at· tempt at abus1ng me Everyone already  '85 -Mark Nagy at 1409 .............................................,...................  
Sell your texts at PANDORA'S 1-4 pm, Mon.-Thurs. Regular store hours: 11-6 weekdays, 10-5 weekends. 50% off used poetry and soqology th1s week only. 937  4 Bdrm N Shore $270 mo total Call Patty 3193228735 Call refunded APT: FOR RENT 2880955  ders add 4%. (Allow 30 days) AARON'S SIGNS, PO BO 3921, SOUTH BEND, IN 46619.  THE FILM CLUB PRESENTS CHARLY APRIL 7. 7,9 & 11 EG. AUD $1  knows why your mouth hurts (are those cold sores or ???) -but as far as my mouth goes, you II never know anyth1ng (How s that?) JAM  Happy Easter Break to all you people out 1n Domerland and SMCv1lle from your tnv1aman  
South Bend Ave .. 233,2342  SURPLUS  JEEPS  $65.  CARS  $89.  Hey Guys! We re stay1ng here over break  
Congratulatlona:.'olo, Laura, Sandy, Laura, Lynn, Arnette, Lynnette, Paul, Don, Bob, Jo., '• Tom, Mike, "Gabby", and Randy. C:.eat job. Glenn  BE YOUR OWN BOSS. Comfortable 5 bedrooom completely furnished house for 5 or 6. Close to campus. Phone 28&-3942.  TRUCK $100 S1m1lar barga1ns ava1lable Call for your d~rectory on how to pur· chase. 602·998-0575 Ext 3648 Call refundable Special Discounts for Notre Dame  RIDE NEEDED TO CHICAGO (N.W. Suburbs??) For Wednesday. Apnt7 alter 12 noon W1ll Share Usual Call DAVE at X1418  The pregnant leprechaun stnkes aga~n! Fnday mght was qu1te RICH With pass1on We bet Danny liked the techn1color yawn She has sucked face w1th a lot of coconuts lately too What a weekend! Regards, Zorro& Wolfy  and we re look1ng for a w1ld lime If you · can help. call Cheryl 6500 (ND) or Kelly 4784 (SMC). Lov. The Party Animals There once was a man. He traveled the  
TO: Claar of '56 Graduates of NO & SMC FROM: Jo Hennessy  WANTED  faculty on computers and penpheral products, pnnters, modems, etc. Hewlett­Packard. Zenith FOURWAY COM­PUTER PRODUCTS, INC., 52758 US 31 North (Across from North VIllage Mall)  JVC RECRUITING APR 15' STOP IN VSO BEFORE BREAK TO GET DETAILS. SCHEDULE AFTERNOON OR EVENING APPTM  Wolfy, Haveahowl1nggood 19th Birthday 1n St LoUis! I w1sh I could be there to see the wolf prowl on the 10th! Love. Mary  passageways of life, sm11ing and taugh1ng as he went He stopped. looked, and then moved on HIS tales of the expenences he had encountered were many. He seemed perfect 1n every way. But 1ns1de he was  
The Class of ·ssNO & SMC Ia sponsor­Ing a party In conjunction with the Graduating Claaa ot'82 on Friday May 14 at 7prn In the Stanford Hall Party Room. Pfeaae contact Jo Hennessy at 291·2152 or BIU Henneaay at 232-4887 for details.  TYPING 28 years as a secretary-­excellent typ1st. ret~red $1 00/page call Phyllis 259·2501 HELP, I CAN'T SWIM, SO I NEED A RIDE TO FT. WAYNE ON APRIL 16 OR 17 TO SPEND EASTER WITH CAST­AWAY FAMILY. IF YOU CAN OFFER AID, CALL PEG AT 1274.  277-7720. 75 FORD LTD Wagon.$500.runs & looks good. Call Peter 283-t439 TICKETS  V1nyl Jeffers for UMOC -Ugly Moon on Campus What do Jeff Jeffers and the man from Nantucket have 1n common? Noth1ng Capta1n sLog: star date 0033 K~rk to Enterpnse. 'Into thy hands I com­mend my sp1nt. Beam me up Scotty  NDGUYS. Out ot the kindness 1n her hean(and a hole 1n her pocketbook), C H BUBBLES IS reduc1ng her rates, for one day only Now you can enJOY her between class QUICkie for a mere $6 95 For ~nfo, call B•g Leoh Rabb1t. Have a hoppy Easter.  not happy He felt depressed, unwanted, unloved, and ·perfectly unnecessary Although h1s m1nd was low. h1s act1ons and words expressed the mask of carefree JOVIality wh1ch everyone des1red and expected from h1m. Then the man met someone. He met someone that was the exact m1rror image of himself. A per­son who he could love and see h1s emo­tions rec1procat1ng back to h1m. They  
LOST/FOUND Lost-contacts 1n case Mar 25 If found please call3522 Found a bracelet at the vegetable party 1n Stanford Hall To cla1m call 8738  HELP!!! I DE SPERA TEL Y NEED A RIDE TO OKLAHOMA CITY FOR EASTER!!! MY OTHER RIDE GOT CANCELLED AND ALL MY CHOCOLATE BUNNIES WILL MELT OR GET STALE IF I DON T GET TO THEM!!! CALL RENEE AT 7905!!!!!!!! HELP' I DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE TO ATLANTA FOR EASTER!!! CAN LEAVE ANYTIME NEXT WEEK WILL SHARE DRIVING AND EXPENSES. BE A GOOD EGG AND CALL 3351  Need extra 11ckets for graduat1on Call Mark at 3008 WANTED grad 11ckets. Please call 277­0758 after 5 00 p m NEED TIX FOR GRADUATION CALL MARTY377·1036 SHOW ME YOUR T s Please sell me your extra grad tickets. Call Bnan x1928 $$$  ATTN:ALLYOUVEGETABLES THERE WAS A FEMALE LIL' GREEN SPROUT NAMED KIM PARTYING IN THE GARDEN.I WOULD GLADLY GIVE MY GREEN TIGHTS FOR HER PHONE NO. PLEASE HELP! THANKS, FROM THE REAL LIL' GREEN SPROUT PAT 8762 Suzy. Happy 19th Birthday. I hope you have a great day and a super year Luv, Anme  TURTLE Dear SIZZle L1ps and Polar, To my favonte BUNNIES: Have a happy easter!! Affectionately. Secret and BaShful JEFF LINDHOLM: Hope the Easter Bun· ny IS good to you! Maybe he II bnng you some real banana pancakes. Have a nice break. From your favorite scapegoat and fellow anomaly  spent lime together. They talked, taughad. cned. and lived as one. The •n­ner frowns of both became outward sm1les. Then. the m~rror crackad. The man discovered that the reflect1on was false and that h1s fnend was merely a shadowlike dream. The man stood back and was amazed. He lookad. learned, and then moved on his way It was just another experience. Smiling and laugh­Ing, the man left the home he thought he had found. But 1ns1de, a tear fprmed and tnckled slowly across his broken heart.  

The Observer -Sports Wednesday, April 7, 1982-page 11 

Major League Baseball Action 
in the eighth on a two-run single by 
Cardinalsbeat loading the Minton
bases. Greg Kent Hrbek. Dave Engle had a solo 
replaced Lavelle, and Baker hit the homer in the first inning. 
first pitch between third and short
Ryan, Astros 
Left-handcr Floyd Hannistt•r got 

for the RBI. the victory for Seattle. 
Reliever Terry Forster earned the 
HOUSTON ( AP) -Darrell Por­victory for the World Champions. ter·~ three-run homer in a five-run After Jack Clark homered for the first inning opened the floodgates Giants in the first inning, the
Los Angeles 4,
against Houston's Nolan Ryan for an Dodgers went on top with two runs 
H~-hit attack last night as the St. in the third. Ken Landreaux singled 
Louis Cardinals rolled to a 14-3 San Francisco 3 home pitcher Jerry Reuss with the 
season-opening victory over the tying run and Steve Garvey's 
Astros. LOS ANGELES (AP) -Dusty sacrifice fly scored Sax with the go· 
Ryan, I 1-S last season, including a Baker's bases-loaded single in the ahead run. 
record fifth career no-hitter, was no bottom of the ninth inning gave Los Steve Yeager's one-out homer in 
match for Cardinal starter Bob Angeles a 4-3 victory over the San the bouom of the fourth gave Los 
Forsch, who scattered seven hits in Francisco Giants yesterday before Angeles a 3·1 lead, but the Giants eight innings, including solo home an opening day crowd of 49,662. came back to tie with two runs in the runs in the sixth inning by Alan Bill Russell led off the Dodgers' sixth. Reggie Smith and Darrell Ashby and in the seventh by Art ninth with a double oil' loser Gary Evans walked with one out. Jeff Howe. Lavelle, the third of four San Fran· Leonard's single scored Smith, and 
Porter also collected one of seven cisco pitchers. One out later, Steve Milt May followed with an opposite· Cardinal doubles. Sax singled and pinch-hitter Ron field bloop single to left that scored 
I

Ryan, who led the major leagues Roenicke was walked intentionally, Evans. 

ICELANDAIR INTRODUCES 


J. flEW BARGAIN FARES TO
I 

with a 1.69 earned run average last season, started the disastrous first in· ning by hitting Lonnie Smith with a pitch. He then struck out Tom Herr and walked Keith Hernandez prior to Porter's towering blast over the right field fence. 
Maler , Seattle over Minnesota 
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -Rookie Jim Maler drove in five runs with three hits, including his first major league homer, to key the Seattle Mariners to an II·7 victory over the Minnesota Twins last night in the regular-season opener before a crowd of 52,279 at the Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome. 
The Twins tied the score 4-4 in the fourth on a three-run homer by Gary Gaetti. But in the fifth, Julio Cruz scored on a sacrifice fly by Bruce Bochte to give the Mariners the lead for good. 
The Mariners scored again in the sixth on Maler's sacrifice fly and added four more runs in the seventh on an RBI double by AI Cowens and a three-run double by Maler. Cowens added a solo homer in the ninth. 
Maler started Seattle off in the third with a single that keyed a three-run inning. In the fourth, he hit a solo homer off Minnesota start· er Pete Redfern, 0·1. 
Gaetti, who was 4-for-4 in the game, slammed his second homer of the night in the seventh, a solo shot, and the Twins capped their scoring 

C.nJ;.IIy inrit11 1111 to lllj'f 
Saturday Morning Brunch 
WITH A DISCOUNT CLIP & BRING AD WITH YOU 
Srlln1 Foell LA• Sranilu Did of $1 :~ 
' UUNCH HOURS PER PERSON
llen.!Frl. 11-J ..... Sit. I L•.-2 ,.Ill. 1202 E. JEFFERSON 8 A.M.•l 0 A.M. MISHAWAKA, INDIANA F011r ,_U.lf 
OPEN EASTER SUNDAY 

It's not your everyday teaching job. It's the Nuclear Navy. 
And it's not for everybody. The Navy's Nuclear Power Program is looking for a limited number of highly qualified instructors. People who have recently earned degrees in mathematics, physics, nuclear physics, or engineering. and would like the opportunity to share that knowledge with others. 
The young people you'd be teaching would be top students. They have to be. The men we choose to operate and maintain the Navy's numerous nuclear reactors have to be the best 
But it's more than just a ''teaching job." Because you would be a Commissioned Officer in the U. S. Navy; the benefits are excellent ·including good pay, housing, and available medical care. Your teaching tour would be spent at the Navy Nuclear Power School in Orlando, Florida. So, if you've ever said to yourself "I'd really like to try my hand at teaching", now's your opportunity. Contact your Navy representatives on campus: 14-lS April in the Placement Office. Call1-800-382-9782 (Toll Free) or 317-269·6187 (call collect) The Nuclear Navy 
for mo 

IJ. 
I
I 
J.
I 
J.
I
I 



MORE OF EUROPE. 
WXEMBOURG PARIS___,

'499 •581 
IOUIDTRIP IOUIDTRIP 
FROM CHICAGO FROM CHICAGO 
ZUIIICII FRIIKFURT
•599 •557 

ROUIDTRIP -IDTRIP 
FROM CHICAGO FROM CHICAGO 
I! ALSO LOW 
COST CONNECTING SERVICE TO NICE ANO AMSTERDAM. 
~ lcelandall' to Lu\embourg. Luxatr or Crossatr conneclmg serVICe 
~ to other desunauons. .. • Confirmed reservation. • Free wme wuh dinner. cognac after. ~ • Bargam Stopover Tours of Iceland and Luxembourg. • Bargam car ~ rentals.• Purchase tickets Ul U.S. • All lares subject to chanlle and 
government approval. 
I 
~ 
Sf>~ yuur lfhf'l ilNt"nt ur r;all800155)·12121nr tht-Wll frttr krl;and;a•r numbrr '")·nur 1ru 
I1 



--...-------,-..... ---~ 

The Observer-Sports Wednesday, April 7, 1982-page 12 
~-~-----------·-~ ~._----~---..--------~ -~---------­
...Sportsboard 
continuedfrom page 10 

11 Stepan7 No Games Scheduled Stepan 8 No Games Scheduled Bookatorell Five Men, Eight Hands over Rhythm and Blues by 10 Spiderman and Four Avengers over Albemonsters by 11 Sumas Vin over How to Ho with F1ve Easy Guys by 
8 

Jack Daniels and Your Mother over The Aunteaters by5 
Bookstore10 Barracudas over The Gooks Plus One by 5 Virtuals over Cherry P1ckers by 5 Maggots Magotts over Two Guys Who Like to Play 
with Three GirlS by 13 Wood Distnbutors, Inc. over The Laundry Bags by 
8 

Lyons11 Bishop Nestle and the Chocolate Cadavers over 
Murray State by 4 Natalie Wood Aquatic Club over You re In by 5 James Brady and the Washington Bullets over The 
Hicks and Double Trouble by 6 

B. F. and the Rearenders over B.L.O.W.J.O.B.S. by 16 Lyons12 Boxer Shorts Brief Appearance over Grassey s Bonersby6 Stewed Tomatoes and the All-Star Dogs over We Bad by 3 Yaks in Heat over Tequila Sunnse. 23-21 (OT) 
Quintin Dailey and Four Cocky Guys over Rugbal­lersby4 
Today'sGames 
Stepan 1 

4:00 -J.J. Young·s Auto and Ribs v. Buster _ Hyman and the Crimson Tide 4:45-Double Decker Oreo v. Puglia·s Bad Scene Trouser Snakes 5:30-Lenny Scutnick and Great Heroes v. Coz­mic Debreeze 6:15-Prophylactic and the Safe Shooters Come 
Again v. Hill Street Blues Stepan2 

4:00 -Duck Williams and the Dalton Gang v. Lick·erBox 
4:45 -Air Florida Swimming and Diving Club v. Gl'od for One Penod, but No Second String 
5:30-Owntin Dailey and the AII-Amencan Felons 

v. J.F. Rock 
6:15 -Joe Spunk and the Pearl Necklaces v. We Wanted to Be Five Guys Names Moe, but 
Stepan3 4:00-A Yard of Infected Meat v Recycled Back­board Trash 4-45-Null Set v. Geritol Express and Four Lads 
5:30 -Scruffy J. and the Pass Out K1ds v. You 

GottaWantlt 6:15-Fast Eddie and the Early Sqwrts v. EYB 
Stepan4 

4:00-In and Out By Two v. Sam Gilbert·s Coat­hanger K1ds 4:45-Skull and Opt1c Jam v. U K. Nike 5:30-M1ke Huntich sand the Crabs v. Mart1n Mull 
and No Ones 6:15-F1ve Guys Who Want to Play A Touch of Class v. Five Easy P1eces 
Stepan 5 

4:00 -Johnny Core and the Keg Creatures v. Father Nieuwland·s Trojan Whoresmen 4:45-D1ck Stoney and the Hurt Me Bads v. 169 
Longnecks 5:30-Five Darners That Still Ex1st v. T1gers 6:15-Thomas Aqu1nas and the Jurist Prudes v 
Poop Shooters 
Stepan& 
4:00 -Round Three v. Bloody Rubble and the 

Kansas City Skywalkers 4:45-Mangled Baby Ducks v. The Porch Club 5:30-The Prolies v. Hose Monsters 6:15-Five D 0 D.·s Aher Some Snatch by the 
Pool v. Bloody Jello F1ends 
Stepan 7 No Games Scheduled Stepan 8 No Games Scheduled Bookatore9 4:00-Tan Masters v. The Snack Bar 

4:45 -Frantic v. Nalahe and the Wood that Wouldn ·t Float 
5:30 -V~rg1n Killers v lncreda Legs Meets F1ve Power Tools 1n Search of a Box 6:15-Tro1ans v Swamprats Bookstore 1 o 4:00-Twmk1e and the Creamers v. Cla1r Brown·s Boys 
4 45-The Good, the Bad, and then Us v. Hobans Heroes 
5:30 -Harmony Davidson and the Menstral Cycles v. Totally Irresponsible 
6:15 -Reckless Abandon v A1r Flonda De1cers 
and the Potomac A1ver Sw1m T earn Lyona11 

4:00 -Ph1l Lat1o and the Four Skins v. Clueless Wonders 
4:45 -Sem1-Pro Phyl Act1c and His Rubbenzed Shot Blockers v. Spoofhounds 11 
5:30 -Lynne Daley and the Baby Seal Slaughterers v. Ou~nt10 Da1ley and Four Guys Who Force It lns1de 6:15-Penetramos v. F1ve Austnans Under Glass 
Lyons12 4:00-Curley Crowd v. The Bloated Stomachs 4:45-The Organ Gnnders v. Logan s Heroes 5:30-Peter Smegma and His Four Ball Handlers 
v. Sons of Thunder II 

_6:15-Team Bud v. I Thought George Gave Up C1gars 
...Weather 

Today's schedule should fare bet­
continuedfrompage 16 
ter with two games played under weather-controlled domes andscheduled to play again until tomor­
row. three others on the sunny west coast.
The Milwaukee Brewers' home One game, Seattle at Minnesota,opener against the Texas Rangers involves teams with domedwas postponed yesterday until April stadiums. The schedule also has four16 after more than a foot ofsnow fell West Coast teams playing eachon the area. The opener originally other.

scheduled for yesterday against the "I think it's outrageous that Min­Cleveland Indians had been res­nesota and Seattle both can open incheduled for today, which was an domes, but are playing each other,"open date. But the Brewers decided said White Sox co-owner Jerryyesterday to call off the entire series, Reinsdorf, "and that Oakland andwhich also included a game tomor­California play each other in warmrow. The games with the Indians will weather."
be made up later in the season. 
Notre Dame 239-7080  ~source..:Travel  
St. Mary's  P.O. Box 1602 South Bend, IN 46634  
284-5606  236-2656  

Come join one of our Escorted Tours. 
0 May 14-16-Brown County-Rolling green hills, overnight at Carrousel's Brown County Inn. Activities for all ages! $225 
0 May 20-23-Las Vegas-Glittering! Ever Exciting! $429 
0 July 9-11-Greenfield Village and Windsor! Step into history! $190 
0 July 16 or August 24-Four Days -Knoxville and the World's Fair. Educational and Fun! $295 
0 July 26-August 15-China '82-Our third tour directed by Geraldine Halt. See ancient China and the new emerging China! $3,450 
0 August 8-18-Going Up To Jerusalem-Our Eighteenth Pilgrimage! Spiritual Leader, Father Edward O'Connor, Notre Dame. Directed by George Ambler. $1,775 
0 August 15-22-Alaska '82-Cruise the Inside Passage on Costa's Spectacular MTS Daphne! From $998 
0 August 28-Sept. 2 -Historic Mackinac Island -Soo Locks -Ride on the Algoma Railroad in Canada's wilds. Directed by George Ambler, $385 
0 September 16-19 -Nashville and the Grand Ole Opry! For all you Country-Western fans! $292 
0 October 2-24-Down Under '82 -Visiting New Zealand, Australia, and Fiji! Directed by Geraldine Halt. 
0 November 6-13-Celebrate The Caribbean-A cruise aboard the Costa Lines World Reniassance! Great Fun! From $935 
'To receive more information, check those tours of interest, clip this ad and mail to 1st Source Travel or call one of our convenient offices. 
Name --------------------------------------------­
Phone: Home Business Address 
City State Zip 

Year afteryearsuccess, like this line drive, is just out ofreachfor the Red Sox, andfor fans like Skip Desjardin. ( AP Photo) 
-~-----~._..--.-----~ ~-~ 
The Observer-Sports Wednesday, April 7, 1982 page 13 
Baseball 
Promises of another spring 
With the coming ofspring, a young man's fancy turns 
to ... 

Baseball. 
The annual spring lament of Red Sox fans is as con­
stant as the blossoming of trees on Yawkey Way. The Sox never seem to improve themselves in the off season, yet always make outrageous claims about their chances in the American League East. 
Ralph 1-louk came out of retirement last year and al­most pulled off the long-awaited miracle. But you can't win without pitching, and Boston had very little. So management -in their infinite wisdom -let two pitchers go the route of free agency, and didn't acquire any mound help. 
It's hard to worry about the loss of Frank Tanana and Bill Campbell, who arc both well past their primes and hampered by injuries. But General Manager Haywood Sullivan maintains that they'll be ably replaced by the likes ofChuck Rainey, Bruce Hurst and Luis Aponte. 
Granted, Cubs tans have it bad. Their team hasn't won 
since the era of"The Big War," in the Forties. But woe 
unto Red Sox fans, whose team always seems to be right 
on the brink ofsuccess. 
In 1972, they finished a halfgame behind Detroit in a 
season shortened by a players' strike. In 1978, they lost 
a special playoff game to the Yankees on a home run by 
-ofall people -Bucky Dent. 
In 1975 ... well, we all remember 1975. 
Despite the strike, which alienated m~ny a fan last season, Red Sox fans looked forward, with a sense of masochism perhaps, to the spring of 1982. This fan had a ticket to his first Opening Day ever, only to be foiled once again -this time by Chicago's snow. 
Last season, Carlton Fisk -see, I told you we all remembered 1975 -single-handedly destroyed Bos­ton in the early-going. He hit a homer in his Beantown debut in a Chicago uniform to beat his former team ­and still got a standing ovation. 
It was a chance to see Carl Yastrzemski in his 22nd, and last, opening game. The man who has been wearing a Red Sox uniform as long as most of us have lived has just one stop after Boston -in Cooperstown. 
After all this time, Yaz still stands by the rail to sign autographs before games, still smiles for pictures, and still brings crowds to their feet with mammoth blasts over the Fenway park bullpens. With the possible ex-
FINE ARTS ­
... Bookstore 


contiriUedfrom page 16 
Just five weeks ago, Tony Aiello, business manager of The Obsen1er, showed what he could do with a hapless hockey team as he lead The Obsen•er squad to a I0-10 tie with favorite WSND. Aiello couldn't do th~· ~ame for a basketball tt·am. 
however. He was 3-18 from the field as his team "Two Guys Who Like to Play With Three Girls," lost to "Maggot's Maggotts," 21-8. 
But perhaps the strongest bid for the Hoosier Award came from Fritz Amason. He made only one of his 16 shots as his team, "You're In" dropped a tough decision to "The 
FIRST SESSION Biology, Chemistry & Physics May 17-June 25 All Other Offerings May 24-June 24 
REGISTRATION• May 11 (Tuesday) 10 AM-1 PM and 4 PM-6:30PM May 19 (Wednesday) 1 0 AM·1 PM (Includes Biology, Chemistry & Physics) 
Natalie Wood Aquatic Club," 21-16. 

AUCTION 
"I'm amazed that all of these players are showing up for the 
Ort~lnal Art: Signed &Numbered
games," said Commissioner Dave 
tchings, Lithographs and
Dziedzic. "It's extremely cold out there. Once again I have to thank the 
Serigraphs: also, 011 Paintings &Posters 
scorekeepers for braving the cold. 
ART WORK IIRAMU AND RUDY TO HANG 
Some of them worked for three 
Agam J<andlnsk)
hours in a row." 
Amen Klee Alvar Lelande Appel Mat iss~ Balet Miro 
SouIanger Neiman Buffet Picasso. Calder Renoir 
Churchill Rockwell Chagall Vasarely Dali and many 
Dufy others
Register Now! 

( 

ception of Bobby Orr, there has never-!);,:en;-iTiOrC revered man in New England sports. Snow spoiled a chance to watch, hut it didn't stop me from remembering ...· 
•Tony 
Conigliaro lying in the dirt on a hot August night, a wayward pitch having stolen the breath ofthose watching and the career of one of baseball's most promising young players. 

• 
Len Barker -he' of the perfect game -throwing a pitch that landed halfway up the screen ncar the press box, and Dwight Evans, mired in a terrible slump, step­ping into the pitch as if to swing. 

•The 
night a bomb scare emptied 1-'enway, but the TV cameras remained to record the eerie sight. 

•Bill 
Lee playing frisbee with the fans in center field just bcli.>rc starting the seventh game of the World Series. 

•George 
Scott striking out to end another, earlier World Series. 

•Rico 
Petrocelli diving li.>r a hot grounder at shortstop, making the stab, and throwing the ball like a basketball hook shot, while lying down, to get the out in the 196" All-Star game. 

•Cal 
Kuntz, Sonny Siebert, Ken Tatum, Ray tulp, Diego Segui,John Curtis and Mike Nagey on the mound. 

•Carmen 
Fanzone making five errors in his major league debut at third base. 

•The 
trades that sent Sparky Lyle to the Yankees for Danny Cater, Ben Oglivie to the Tigers for Dick McAuliffe, and Cecil Cooper to the Brewers for Bernie Carbo. 

•Juan 
Marichal ending a brilliant career with the familiar high kick and the unfamiliar loss ofcontrol. 

•Buying 
popcorn in a megaphone with "Red Sox" emblazoned on it, and wondering why it didn't all fall out the bottom. 


Maybe, just maybe, there will be moments in 1982 for a Red Sox fan to cherish forever, too. 
SUNDAY. APRIL 11 ~xhibition : 1 pm Auction : 2 pm RAMADA INN 52890 US 33 S. Bend 
Fm:l:• Admission • Catalog • Door Pri1e Penciled signed an1l numbered orlgmal lithograph 
VIsa· Mastercard· Personal Checks· Cash Auctioneer: Dr. Cherlee Kellar 
Pr...nted br: THI QALLIRY ART AUCTIONEERS 
LOYOLA UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO 
• • • 64!
c

Registration in the Georgetown Room-Marquette Center-820 North Rush/Chicago You can sign-up for a bright and wide array of summer session, full-credit courses. Offered at either our Water Tower campus at 820 North Michigan or our Lake Shore campus at 6525 
CAMPUS MINISTRY LECTURE SERIES 
North Sheridan. Here are the session dates ... 
EVENING SESSION May 17 -July 15 REGISTRATION• May 11 (Tuesday) 10 AM·1 PM and 
The Future Church
4 PM·6:30 PM SECOND SESSION Biology, Chemistry & Physics 
by Rev. Richard McBrien
June 28-August 6 All other Offerings June 28-July 29 

REGISTRATION• June 17 (Thursday) 10 AM-2:30PM 
'Students may elect to reg1ster by ma11. Information provided m the Summer Sessions bulletin. 
Aptil7-Wednesday -7:00-8:30 Pm
For more information complete coupon below and mail tod~
l_g
___U)volA"Ut;iveRS"I:rYOr=cHiCAcio ---1 
Hayes-Healy

I . :~~~;~hs~~~o~!n Avenue. Chicago. Illinois 60611 fv1ET.ROVERSfTY I
I NAME -e TELEPHONE: 312/670-3011 -..... ' I 
I I
ADDRESS 
an

CITY STATE ZIP 
I 
Call)pUS

I 
COLLEGE NOW ATIENDING 
miniStry

We are an equal opportunity educator /employer. N 0 I 
• .,•




I-------------------r • • 

Wednesday, April 7, 1982 -page 14
The Observer 
I 
I l 
t 
I 
r 

Western Michigan postponed 

The Notre Dame baseball team's game against Western Michigan was postponed. The Irish, who hold a 7-6 record, will attempt to play on April 28 -if it doesn't snow. -The Ob­server 

Summer Special Rates 

STORAGE 
h"""" ..__ ""w.<''• ... ..,.;r • .,.
Gil~:,;;j; JAfli!QIIID1l_... 
CALL NOW 683-1959 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS APPROX 2Y2 MILES NORTH U.S. 31-33 GATESOPENALLDAYSUNDAY 
Master Mini Warehouses 
1621 South Bend Ave. 233-4603 
WE WIU BEAT ANY ADVERTISED PRICE 
(YOU MUSt BRING IN THEIR AD) 

Inside Interhall 


Club sports results; Carroll, 'C'Men-win 
BASEBALL -Kevin Sullivan and Dave Unterreiner led their Car­
roll squad to a 14-1 trouncing of Grace. Kevin pitched the entire 
game striking out 16 of the 18 batters he faced. He was especially 
pleased with his performance as it was very early in the season and 
on a particularly cold day. Doing the slugging on offense, catcher 
Unterreiner went three-for-four including a single, a triple and a 
home run, helping his team to its first win. 
MEN'S SOFTBALL-Richies "C" Men downed Keenan last week 
9-0. Captain Ken Shepard doubled in the game, while teammate 
Greg Herman combined good fielding with a three base hit to aid the 
cause. 

WOMEN'S SOFTBALL-Despite good pitching by Kathy Farr, and 
a home run by Jackie Bollas, Breen-Phillips out-blasted Pasquerilla 
East, 18-9. 

B-P II had a similar finish in its game with Lyons, beating them by a 
score of 15-5. 

GRAD SOFTBALL -In a few of the games that managed to be 
played before our lovely break in the weather, Philosophy edged 
English, I4-I I, and History outlasted Chemistry, IS-3. 
WOMEN'S SOCCER -Tricia McManus scored two goals to lead _ 
Farley to a 4-2 victory over Lewis. • 
~EN'S SOCCER -This spring's single elimination tournament 
should be getting underway this week, weatherpermitting. 
VOLLEYBALL -To recap the results of the women's volleyball 
tournament, the Intimidators of Breen-Phillips outlasted their hall­
mates, B-P III, in the championship match. B-P III didn't go down 
without a battle, however, as they won the preliminary match of the 
double elimination tourney sending the series to a second game. 
DEADLINES -Entries for both the interhall track meet and the 
interhall golf tournament should be submitted to the NVA office by 
Wednesday, April I4. For more details, contact the NVA office (C-2 
ACC)or 239-6IOO. 
Irishmen to host NDQuads 
ByJACK RYAN 
Sports Writer 
In what Head Coach Tom Fallon 
described as "a day for upperclas­
smen," the Notre Dame men's tennis 
team beat Ball State Friday, 6-3, 
moving its spring record to 9-5. 

Senior captain Tom Hartzell led the Irish as he scored a straight set victory. Other winners for the Irish included junior Mark McMahon and seniorJim Falvey. 
"Jim had been having trouble late­ly," said Fallon, "but he put it togeth­er nicely Friday. Mark also played a tough match." 
The Butler match, scheduled for yesterday, was postponed because the team was advised by the Indiana State Police not to attempt the trip north. 
Nevertheless, the Irish have a busy week as they host Purdue today at 3:30 p.m. host the Notre Dame Quadrangular, a four-team meet scheduled for this weekend, starting at 9 a.m. The Irish will play host to Wisconsin-Oshkosh, Northern Il­linois and Bowling Green in this Eas­
ter Break tournament, at the 
Courtney Tennis Center. 
Notre Dame's busy schedule con­
tinues with a rare match on Easter 
Sunday morning against Indiana Uni­
versity, beginning at II a.m. Then, 
the Irish play host to Western Michi­
gan on Monday, Indiana State on 
Tuesday (both 2:30p.m. starts) and 
Illinois-Chicago Circle on Wednes­
day, beginning at 3 p.m. 
The Butler match yesterday began 
a grueling string of 12 matches in 13 
days for Notre Dame, the first ten of 
which will be home matches. 
Weather permitting, the matches 
will be held outdoors; if the snow is 
still around, however, the action will 
take place in the North Dome of the 
ACC. 


--BeerSpecials------. 24cans
Miller $6.99 
or bottles Miller Lite case $8.99
quarts 
• case 
$8.99

Bu dweiser quarts .. 
TuhorgGold 6pack $1.89 
Cigarettes .59c ( 100's .60c) 
..____Quantitieslimited-Expires 4/14/82iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii_____l 
P----Keg Special 
Budweiser 1;2 Harrells $39.99 (includes 50 cups, ice) + deposit 
South Bend Ave. Store ONLY.--­
r-"---OtherLow Prices------. Carolans Irish Cream (750) 10.99 Carlo Rossi Wine (4ltr.) 4.99 7up ~8pack) 1,09+deposit 
The__Observer=-= 


~~4(Jl~~============================~W=e=d=n=e=s=d=ay=,=A=p=n=·l=7=,=l9=8=2===p=a=g=e=l=5
Molarity 


Simon 


The Daily Crossword 
417182

© 1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. Ali Rights Reserved 
Michael Molinelli 
;L WON'T '[)D IT.., I IVo!J'f ENP UP '17115/Nq A JoB :I P:!N'r Clt~E Fl!f\ 




Jeb Cashin 
ACROSS 34 Care for 59 Piscivorous 27 Old-woman· 1 Army meal 35 Support a bird ish 5 Judicial person 60 Related 28 Most 
garments 36 Gershwin 61 Carved gem certain 10 Zoo com-37 "Tempest" 62 Pro-29 Stupor 
partment spirit 63 Secretary 30 Bangor's 14 Pain 38 Lemon or of State state 15 Wear away orange 64 Pungs 31 Frosted 16 Stone 39 Help 65 Spill over a cake 17 Pulled the 42 Shim 32 Metric 
trigger 44 Wild spree DOWN measure: 18 Painter 45 Analyzed a 1 Rigging abbr. 
Edouard sentence support 33 Haste 19 Disabled 46 -Trueheart 2 She loved 35 Small nail 20 All out 47 Italian Narcissus 37 Satisfied 23 Cafe au-money 3 Scat! expression 24 Seines 48 Fervently 4 Colonizes 40 Stylish 27 Behind 55 Kind of 5 Stay 41 Church 
a ship skirt 6 Praying section 30 School 58 Undergo figure, 42 Division of exams change in art a prison 
7 Fleming's 43 Blackboard James-items 8 Idyllic 45 Horses place 47 Added 
9 Bristle alcohol 10 Irish lass 49 Curved 11 Literary segments 
collection 50 Actual 12 Exercise 51 Docile place 52 Nuncupativt 13 River in 53 Biblical England preposition 21 Loser to 54 Vault a tortoise 55-Jongg 22 "-the 56 Alias 
valley of..." letters 25 Walks 57 Midnight, 26 Dirt smear lnRoma 

· Campus 
•2 
p.m. -ND Tax Assistance Program, La Fortune Student Center 

•2:20 
p.m., 4:30p.m. -Film, "Japan" and "Japan: Land ofKami", 3<t9 Madel eva Hall 

• 
3:30 p.m. -Tennis, Notre Dame Men vs. Purdue, Courtney Courts 

• 
3:30 p.m. -Seminar, Representation of Fol­lower Forces in Finite Elemen, Prof. Richard H. Gallagher, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 

• 
3:30 p.m. -Lecture, Fluid Microstructure and Enhanced Oil Recovery, Dr. Ted It Davis, 30.~ Cus­hing Hall ofEngineering 


•-I p.m. -Lecture, Dr. Fazlur Kahn, Architecture Auditorium 
•4:30 
p.m. -Seminar, Genetic Recombination and Comrol of Cell-type in , Dr. Rohert Malone, Rm. 27H Galvin Ufe Science Center 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, The Theatrical Imagination of Tadeusz Rozervicz, Prof. Kazimierz Braun ND Memorial Library Lounge, Sponsored by NDlSMC COTH 

•4:30 
p.m. -Meeting, Amnesty International In­ternational Student's Lounge, basement of La Fortune 

•7 
p.m. -Lecture, The Future Church, Rev. Richard P. McBrien, ND, liayes-Healy Auditorium, Sponsored by Campus Ministry 

•7 
p.m., 9 p.m., 11 p.m. -Film, "Charly", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Film Club, 


Sl.OO 

•H:30 p.m. -fellowship of Christian Athletes Forum, Lefty Smith, Chapel ofSorin llall 

T.V. Tonight 
7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8:00p.m. 
9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m.. 10:00p.m. 
11:00 p.m. 
11:30p.m. 
12:00a.m. 12:30p.m. 


16 MASH 

22 CBS News 
28 joker's Wild 
34 The MacNeil/lehrer Repon 
16 The Muppt·t Show 
22 Family Feud 
28 Tic Tac Dough 
34 Straight Talk 
16 Real People 
22 Herbie, The Love Bug 
28 Greatest American Hero 
34  National Geographic  
16  Facts ofUfe  
22  CBS  Special  Movie  Presentation:  
Coward ofthe County  
28  The Fall Guy  

34 Middletown "The 1\ig Game" 
16 Love Sidney 
16 Quincy 
28 Dynasty 

34 From the Ashes...Nicaragua Today 
16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 
34 The Dick Cavett Show 
16 The Tonight Show 
22 CBS Movie: "A Man a Woman and a Bank" 
28 ABC News Nightline 
34 Captioned ABC News 
28 l..ove Boat 
16 Late Night with David letterman 
• 

• . . . The Student Union presents : • 
• 
: DanPeek : 
• formerly ofAmenca • 
: April17,1982 : : 8Pm at Stepan Center : 
• Tickets are $5 in advance. • • and $6at the door • 
•• You can buy yo"r ticke-ts right now •• e on campus atth• SU Ticke-t Offic• e • or atthe-RCC Box Office-e 

:r·-~--~. --~ 

----------------------------~--------------~----------------------------------------------~--------------­


~~~·_J1_•__1t_-_~----------------------------------------------W--'e_d_n_c_sd_a_;_·._A_p_r_il_7_,_L_9_H_2___P_a_g_e_l 6 

Mud volleyball became snow volleyball yesterday as brave par­ticipants braved the murky turf The finals of the mud volleyball tournament will be held An Tostal weekend. (Photo by Cheryl Er­telt) 
ND'sHenry 

Another Valenzuela superstar? 
By CHUCK GREENE 
Sports Writer 

After four years here at Notre Dame, he's accomplished almost all the things he could have hoped to. 
He has excelled in his sport and in the classroom, earning Academic All-America honors at the end oflast season. Yet he remains unknown to the average Irish fan. 
He's baseball co-captain Henry 
Valenzuela. 

The senior from Tampa, Fla., leads 
this year's squad into the remainder 
of its 48-game schedule, having 
helped them to a 7-6 record thus far. 
"In baseball it is crucial to develop a groove," says Valenzuela. "To be repetitive and gain consistency. So far this season the weather has been hurting us. We can't really get started but I think once we can play everyday we'll do much better. 
"There's no reason for the team 
not to have a great year." 

Valenzuela's first three years here 
went extremely well for him and the 
team. While becoming one of the 
greatest Irish players of all time, he 
has seen the team become one ofthe 
top three in the Midwest. That's a 
tremendous turnaround from a 
squad that was 14-19 during his 
freshman year. 

"This team has really developed," · 
Valenzuela says. "I would have to at­
tribute this change to outstanding coaching as well as quality athletes. 
Coach (Tom) Kelly got the program
turned around and ready to move on to bigger things." Kelly handed the team over to 
Tough choices 

Johnson, Smith kick for spot 
ByMIKE RICCARDI 
Sports Writer 
One of the major decisions Gerry Faust must make prior to Notre Dame's 1982 football opener will concern the new Irish placekicker. After Easter break, Assistant Coach Brian Boulac and outgoing senior Harry Oliver will work with the two 
t 
candidates now on campus as they 
await the arrival of a prep phenom from Ohio this fall. 
The inside track now belongs to junior Mike Johnston. The Roches­ter, New York native handled kickoff duties in the 1980 campaign but saw little action as Harry Oliver's backup last fall. Coach Boulac says that 
Johnston's hard work is paying offas "he has developed into a fine kicker. He possesses quickness to the ball as well as an accurate leg." The com­bination of Oliver's experience and Johnston's years spent competing with the Irish record-setter has allowed him to progress to the point where his leg is considered stronger than Harry's, but he is untested un­der pressure. However, he is con­sidered number one until competition heats up prior to the Blue-Gold game. 
Coach Boulac gives freshman walk-on Chris Smith (not the run­ning back) "a real chance to kick quite a bit this fall." This gladdens the amiable Smith who expects "a real dogfight" with "the bigger, stronger" Johnston. Smith comes off a strong year with the Notre Dame junior varsity squad. This year's kick­off man, Gary Purk, is with the baseball team this spring and it is un­clear whether he will try out this fall. 
There is, however, a recruit who will challenge Johnston and Smith when fall drills open this August. The most highly-touted high school
-. 
kicker in America, Hal von Wyl, has 
booted a 54-yard field goal while at ters," says Boulac of the Columbus Walsh Jesuit High School in Akron, Indiana sophomore. Kiel's puntin~ Ohio. He also punts, averaging over performance did drop off a little in 41 yards a kick at Walsh. 1981, and he will be expected to 
The Irish will stand pat with Blair achieve an average of over 40 yards Kiel, who will handle punting for his 
per kick this fall. third consecutive season. His 1981 
The kickers have not gotten much average of .39.9 yards would have 
serious work in, due to the less-than­
wonderful South Bend weather. 
Spring Football'82 However, compeuuon between 
Johnston and Smith will commence 
after Easter, and more time will be 
devoted to the kicking game in pre­been much better, according to season drills. However, the Coach Boulac, if he hadn't split time Johnston-Smith competition should between punting and the quarter­set the stage for one of this team's 
back position. "He has the capability most interesting personnel deci­to be one of the nation's top pun-sions come August. 
Badweatherdefeats baseballgame hopes 
By MIKE EMBREY 
AssociatedPress 

The start of the major-league baseball season was delayed in several cities as spring tossed a wicked curve into opening-day ceremonies. 
Six of the 10 opening games scheduled for yesterday were postponed by unseasonably cold weather in Philadelphia, New York, Detroit, Milwaukee, Chicago and Pittsburgh. Frigid weather stretch­ing from the Midwest to the North­east dumped heavy snow and dropped temperatures into the 20s. 
"Opening Day is like Christmas," said Mike McClure, marketing vice president of the Chicago White Sox. "Once you've lost it, it's hard to recapture." 
American League openers involv­ing Texas at New York, Toronto at Detroit, Boston at Chicago and Cleveland at Milwaukee and the New York Mets at Philadelphia and Montreal at Pittsburgh in the Nation­al League were postponed yesterday because of the weather. 
The Tigers announced yesterday that today's home opener and tomorrow's game against Toronto had been called off. The postpone­ment was the second in two days. The opener had been delayed be­cause oftemperatures in the 20s. 
Near blizzard conditions with snowfall predicted to reach 12 inches in New York forced the postponement of the Rangers and Yankees game. The Yankees are not 
See WEATHER, page 12 

current Head Coach Larry Gallo in 
the fall of 1980. "Coach Gallo has 
been tremendous, giving 100 per­
cent all the time," Valenzuela 
relates. "He's a winner and has given 
us that attitude. We expect to win 
every time we go out there now." 
Personally, Valenzuela has ac­

complished a great deal here. A four­
year starter, he has been among the 
team's offensive leaders each year, 
along with providing solid defense 
at first base. 
Last season was undoubtedly his 

best, as he led the team in runs 
batted in and home runs. He also was 
second on the team in runs scored 
and batting average. 
In his four seasons he has set one Irish career record, that for most to­tal bases. He currently is tied for first in home runs and is in position to own as many as five more career records by the end ofthe season. 
Coach Gallo has nothing but praise for his star. "Henry has a zest for the game," Gallo says. "He just loves to play. I know that is a very popular saying in baseball but with Henry it's true. 
"We all don't love baseball all of the time, but Henry does. He has developed into a very good player, looking for ways to win. He's also very intelligent, with a lot going for 
him. 
"His development has been paral­lel to that of the program," Gallo concludes. "And on top of all that, he's a very personable guy and a good leader." 
In additions to his accomplish­ments on the field, Valenzuela has maintained a fine academic record. 
•
An accounting major, he will move 
on from Notre Dame to law school at 
either Harvard or Duke. 
"I came to Notre Dame to strike a 
balance between academics and 
baseball," admits Valenzuela. "l 
wanted to be able to play and get a 
quality education at the same time, 
and obviously I've been able to do 
both. 
"I've worked very hard and a1m very proud of the things I've ac­complished. I've sacrificed a lot of social life but I think it was worth it. 
"It's just a matter of how success­ful you want to be and how much you're willing to give up to be suc­cessful." 
Time will tell just how successful Henry Valenzuela will be. But base t d on his four years at Notre Dame, he shouldn't have any problem becom­ing a success in the real world. 
He's had a lot of practice. 

Bookstore contl•nu·es as weather 1•mproves 
By DAVE DZIEDZIC 
AssociateSports Editor 
What a difference a day makes. 
Even though the temperature was 

lower than on Monday, the playing 
conditions were drastically im­
proved as Bookstore Basketball XI 
continued with first round action 
yesterday. 
All ten courts were cleared of 

snow and ice before the games 
started, thanks to the terrific effort of 
the Notre Dame Maintenance Crew. 
Playing in yesterday's frigid tem­
peratures was rough, but not nearly 
as difficult as trying to dribl:.ie on six 
inches of snow, as Monday's par­
ticipants were forced to do. 
Scorekeeping was also easier, as the dedicated scorers didn't have to wo.rry about falling snow ruining the scoresheets. 
Most participants played glove­less, choosing shooting accuracy over warmth. 
Perhaps the best game of the day was played on Stepan 6, where "We're Short, But We're Slow" defeated "J.T.)." by two, 21-19. The winners had to come from behind af­ter losing a lead that they held the entire contest. Missy Conboy, cap­tain of the 1981-82 Notre Dame women's basketball team, was five out of nine from the field for the losers, while Charley Rafferty scored 
seven for the short people. 
The game was hotly contested un­der the boards, as Mark Kirkland of ").T.)." had 21 rebounds and John Savoie of "We're Short ..." pulled down 1 7 boards. 
The "Esophagus Constrictors," who were eliminated on Monday, weren't around to provide enter­tainment, but "The Boxer Rebellion Makes a Brief Appearance" picked up the slack. After playing the entire first half in boxer shorts, they wore only their jockey underwear in the second half. The ploy didn't phase the opposition, however, as "Coach Gypo's Pervone Heads" won, 21-12. 
The best shooting performance of the day was by Matt Cantwell of "Lizzie Borden and the Hatchet Men." Cantwell was 15 of 22 from the field as his team defeated "Premature Shooters," 21-4. 
In other games, Mike Conlin of "Hawkins and the Bad-Asses" scored nine as his team defeated "Pistols of Love" by nine. 
Jim Pogue was 11-18 in leading 
BOOKSTORE XI 
"Peanut Butter Legs" to victory over "The New Federalism" by 1l. 
Observer sports writer Ed Kon­rady proved he deserved to be one of the "Five Slow, White Guards," as he banged home three buckets in a losing effort against the "Beer Bongs," who were victorious 21-11. 
Rudy Perez scored 10 as "We Bad" defeated "Stewed Tomatoes and the All-Star Dogs," 21-18. 
In a game that took an hour and a halfto complete, "Boxer Shorts Brief Appearance" defeated "Grassey's Boners" by six. Why so long? A look at the winners' shooting statistics provide an answer. Don Zelazny, the leading scorer, was 10 of38 from the field. Teammate John McGrath was 1-13. 
Speaking of poor shooting perfor­mances, several players made bids for the "Hoosier Award," given an­nually to the the player who exhibits the most shooting with the least proficiency. 
Despite the 0-13 shooting of Mike McGraw, the "Barracudas" defeated "The Gooks Plus One," 21-6. 
See BOOKSTORE, page 13 


INSIDE: 
Club Corner -p.14 Baseball-p.-11 Bookstore 
~p.10 











