~--------~ -------­
Apple computers -page 4
I I I 

VOL. XVII, NO. 41 TUESDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1982 
Lebanon president gives plans to U.N. • • • 
L::'>IITED NATIO:'>/S (AP) -Pre~i­Gemayel is meeting Reagan today dent Amin Gemayel. on the eve of to discuss prospects for speedy im­meeting President Reagan, yester­t plementation of an America.• plan day hailed l'.S. eft(ms to rid hb for the withdrawal of Israeli, Syrian, country of the foreign armies that and Palestinian torces from haw: turned Lebanon into "an arena Lebanon. t(>r terror and 1·iolence." The U.S. administration is depend­
Addressing the General Assembly, ing on Gemayel to use his intluence Gemayel also demanded "the im­with Syria to persuade the Palestine mediate and unconditional Liberation Organization to withdrawal of all non-Lebanese withdraw in advance of the foreign forces from Lebanon. •· departure of the Israeli and Syrian 
The Lebanese president called on troops -as demanded by Israel. the IS7-nation body "to help PLO fighters, torced to evacuate Lebanon regain its real indepen­their besieged west Beirut bastion in dence and rebuild its economy." August, still occupy positions in 
U.S. Ambassador Jeanne J. northern and eastern Lebanon. Kirkpatrick and her seven-member An estimated .)0,000 Syrian delegation joined in the sustained troops, who have been in Lebanon as applause that greeted Gemayel's a peacekeeping force since the demand. Israeli and Syrian envoys, 1975-76 Moslem-Christian civil war, whose countries have deployed are concentrated in the Bekaa Valley 
airlines jet for New York where he addressed the 
armies in Lebanon, sat passively. and surrounding heights in eastern 
U.N. general assemhZ}'yesterd,~}'. (AP Photo)
Asserting there could not be Lebanon, where they face Israeli Middle East peace without a stable positions. Lebanon, Gemayel said "We applaud Wearing a black tie in mourning all positive steps taken by our for his brother, assassinated friends in the international com­President-elect Bashir Gemayel, the munity on behalf of a united and Lebanese president addressed the 
• • .Israel compromise proposed
sovereign LebaP.on -steps such as assembly in English rather than 
the United States' initiative on Arabic or French. His speech_ was in­Lebanon -which we shall explore terrupted 10 times by applause, NAIROBI. Kenya (AP) -Great permamently" resign if an Algerian­countries. to the fullest." much of it coming from Lebanese Britain, attempting to strike up a sponsored resolution to bar Israel is Algeria's delegate said the agency 
Gemayel was addressing the supporters in the public gallery. compromise in a fight over Israel passed. He said the United States has a precedent for the move against 
Security Council later yesterday to Israeli Ambassador Yehuda Z. that ha~ the United States threaten­would withhold its annual contribu­Israel -the 197:~ exclusion of ask it to extend the mandate of the Blum told reporters afterward that ing to pull out of a U.N. agency, tion to the agency, now S.).2 million South Africa because of its apartheid 7,000-man U.N. peacekeeping force he noted "with satisfaction" proposed yesterday that the agency -""percent of the hu:.lget. policy of racial segregation. 
in southern Lebanon. Since the force Gemayel's call for departure of all express alarm over the invasion of Iran, lining up with th~ Arab states "Israel, like South Africa, should was overrun by Israeli troops in the foreign troops. Lebanon, but not oust Israel. 
supporting the resolution, said it have no place in our union," he said. June 6 invasion, the council has The PLO's li.N. observer, Zehdi The amendment was proposed af­was willing to make up the U.S. con­An American delegate said the been extending the mandate every Labib Terzi, said he thought one of ter U.S. chief delegate Michael tribution. l'nited States considered illegal the two months, instead of on a semi­Gemayel's main thrusts was that Gardner told the !57-member ll.N. After speeches by .)0 speakers, moves against South Africa and Por­annual basis as was done previously. Palestinian self-determination is a agency, the International Telecom­either urging the ousting of Israel or tugal, who also were excluded nine 
The latest mandate expires midnight "prerequisite for peace in the munications Union, that the United declaring that the resolution was a years ago. The Portuguese, attacked tonight. Middle East." States would "immediately and politicl issue inappropriately or il­for "racist colonial" policies, legally placed before the technical regained memher~hip t(Jllowing the working group, the session was ad­19""~S independence of Angola andSchurz chair journed. :\1ozamhique. It is to reconvene today, when a 
In proposing the compromise,vote is expected. 
Britain said it hoped to defuse aIt would be the first test of

Managetnentprofinaugurated 
"time bomb" that could wreck the
strength of anti-Israel sentiment 
conference and cause irreparable
An evening celebration at South "Business and Education: Strategic management in Notre Dame's Lon­among li.N. members s!nce 
damage to the I.T.l;.. It said other
Bend's Century Center will cap a day Issues," at 2 p.m. in the Center for don M.B.A. program since 1977. Secretary ofState George Shultz said 
countries would seriously reap­
of on-campus events scheduled for Continuing Education auditorium. Norhurn received his under­Saturda) that the United States will 
praise "the value ofcontinued mem­
today's inaguration of the Franklin Recognized as an expert in British graduate degree from the London withdraw from the U.N. General As­bership."
D. Schurz Chair in Management at business policy, Norburn has School of Economics, studied for a sembly ifa resolution to expel Israel the University of Notre Dame. directed the Master's and Continu­year at Harvard University, and from it passes. That resolution is The compromise would amend David Norburn, Franklin D. ing Executive Programs of the Lon­earned his doctorate in 1972 from tentatively expected to be up t(Jr a the Algerian resolution to express Schurz Professor of Management, don Business School. He has also the Graduate Business Centre of vote at U.N. headquarters in New alarm over the grave Middle Ea~t 
will deliver his inaugural lecture, served as an adjunct professor of City University, London. Norhurn's York next Monday. situation resulting from Israel's inva­wife, Susan Birley-Norhurn, is also ;: Western delegates said the vote sion of Lebanon. It removes member of Notre Dame's London on the issue beti>re the International references to ousting Israel. 
:'vi.B.A. program. Telecommunications l'nion would The compromise wa~ co­Norburn's lecture will be he close. A non-aligned ambassador sponsored by Australia, Belgium, followed by a reception at~ p.m. on said the outcome hinged on the Canada, Denmark, Ireland, Norway, the main tloor of the Center for large contingent of black African and Italy. Continuing Education. A Mass in the Lady Chapel ofSacred Heart Church will be celebrated at --1 p.m. by Father Theodore o'\1. Hesburgh, University 
Glee Club tour includes 
president. The evening's events will begin at ~ p.m. with a ~ocial hour on Island 


a spot on 'Today !J!Jow' 
Park, t(>llowed by the formal in­augural dinner at H p.m. in The Great 
By MARY ANN POTTER The "Today Show" appearance is 
Hall. :\laster of ceremonies will he 
:Vews Staff "detlnitely one of the highlights of 
Father Edmund P_ Joyce, llniversity 
the tour". according to Glee Club executive vice president. 

The 1\;otre Dame (;lee Club will President Brian Victor. The endowed professorship is un­

make its tlrst "Today Show" ap­It has not been decided which derwritten by the veteran editor and 
pearance ever .\1ondav, Octoher 2S, selections the group will sing on the

publisher oftheSoutb Bend Tribune 
as part of its fall tour. "Today Show" appearance, hut Vic­and chairman of the board ofSchurz 

The club will pert(Jrm periodical­tor said that the "Notre Dame Vic­Communications, Inc. 
ly throughout the show, which airs tory March" detlnitely \viii be

Franklin D. Schur:t abo served as a 
across the country every weekday included.

:'>lotre Dame trustee from 19CH to 
from .., a.m. to 9 a.m. ( E.S.T. ). The The initial contact for scheduling19""2, the same year he received an 

<;lee Club also will visit other cities the "Today Show" a:m~ara11ce washonorary degree from the l'niver­
on the East Coast during the fall sitv. 

break, including Boston. Hyde Park, 

See TOl'R., rage 10 

-Tbe Obsen•er 
and Long Island. 






News Brie/§ 
Hy The Ohsen•er and The Associated Press 
About 40 Holy Cross residents were ap­
prehended by Notre Dame Security last night, after they had started a massive food fight in South Dining Hall. As part of Holy Cross Hall's annual "Self-Proclaimed Viking Night", the students entered the dining hall, linked arms, and proceeded to drink straight-armed and eat without utensils, while chanting traditional Viking slogans. According to a studentcoordinator ofthe dining hall, "The food was getting all over the place. They started to trip on it, and eventually began to throw it." Both exit doors were locked while security restrained the group and took names and J.D. numbers. The students must report to Dean ofStudentsjim Roemer regarding the incident. -The Observer 
Two South Bend juvenileswere taken into cus­
tody for an alledged burglarly at Notre Dame apartments early Satur­day morning, according to South Bend Police Captain Ed Friend. While police were still investigating the scene, however, the two males escaped from the back seat of the police car. Friend said that police know the identities ofthe two males, and that an investigation is in the process. A Notre Dame student alerted police to the scene when he said he saw "two guys start climbing up a balcony" leading to a second-~oor apartment. A resident of the apartment told police later that someone had tried to break into the apartment. The Notre Dame student said he had noticed the same two males walking around the apartment grounds a few minutes before the incident, and decided to notify police or apartment security. -The Observer 
Bess Truman, the childhood sw~etheart and closest confidante of President Harry S. Truman, died yesterday at age 97 in Independence, Mo. "The old engine just ran out," said Dr. Wallace Graham, the Truman family physician since the mid-1940s. "We've known for a while that the end was near." The public knew her as Bess, but Truman called her "Boss" and looked to her as his closest advisor. Graham said Mrs. Truman died ofcongestive heart failure at the Truman home in Independence, where she was under constant care ofa private nurse. She was pronounced dead at 4:38a.m. in the emergency room of Research Medical Center in Kansas City. Mrs. Truman, who lived longer than any other first lady, will be buried beside her husband on the grounds of the Truman Library in In­dependence. -AP 
A 51-year-old man hobbled into the tobby of the Omaha World-Herald newspaper on crutches yesterday, pulled a six-inch boning knife and plunged it into his chest after telling a startled reporter he could not find work or pay his medical bills. Charles Kiss was reported in good condition at Lutheran Medical Center with a single wound in the upper left chest. The reporter, David Thompson, said Kiss pulled the knife from a briefcase, held it to his chest and said, "I can't go on this way." Michael Healey, direc­tor of the Douglas County Department of Social Services, disputed the claims Kiss made to the reporter that he had not been getting the help he needs. "He has received substantial assistance from us in the previous months," Healey said. "We have been meeting his rent and utilities and he's probably received an excess of between 5700 and S800 for food stamps over that period. We've also given him bus 
money and gas money to try to find him a job." -AP 
Social Security'Sold-age trust fund will have to borrow S 1 billion to S2 billion shortly after Election Day to cover the Nov. 3 checks for nearly 32 million retirees and their families, a govern­ment official said yesterday. That will be only the first installment. The old-age fund, under t<;mporary authority granted by Congress last year, will have to borrow up to 51 1 billion from the disability and Medicare trust funds before the end ofDecember to keep paying benefits on time through next June, said Treasury Department spokesman Marlin Fitzwater. He said the borrowing -the first in history -involves nothing more than "a bookkeeping entry" after the checks go out. He stressed, "There is no danger of anyone not receiving a check." Robert]. Myers, executive director of the Na­tional Commission on Social Security Reform estimated that n bil­lion to S1. 5 billion remained in the old-age fund after September checks totalling S 11.9 billlion were mailed Oct. 3. That was the trust fund's lowest balance in three decades or more, he said. -AP 
. ' 
The nations 10.1 percent unemployment rate failed to impress Indian officials here -they claim that the jobless rate on the reservations in Sante Fe, New Mexico is up to 70 percent. "It's bad out here," said Isleta Pueblo Gov. Frank Jojola, who estimates two­thirds ofthe 3,500 residents ofhis pueblo -a local tribal unit -are out of work. "And a couple of months from now, my God, what's going to happen?" Many state and tribal officials blame Reagan ad­ministration budget cuts for the skyrocketing unemployment rate among Indians here, including the nation's largest tribe -the 170,000-member Navajos. Officials say winter is likely to make mat­ters worse as the snow halts cattle grazing and crop production. High unemployment is a chronic problem for Indians, who comprise 10 percent of New Mexico's population but only 2 percent of the state's work force. Within the past four years, the jobless rate for Indians in New Mexico has soared from 10 percent to 20 percent, said john Olguin, director ofthe state Indian Affairs Commission. ­
AP 
Breezy and warmwith a 4o percent chance or'thun­dershowers developing late tonight. High in the upper 60s to near 
70. Cloudy and mild with a 70 percent chance of thundershowers. Low in the upper 40s. Thundershowers ending tomorrow morning an~ ~t~ming cooler. High in the mid 50s. -AP 
-~. ~ ::' ~-?f~~~~-.~ ..:~~ .-:.$~ ::: M.. 
Tuesday, October 19, 1982-page 2 

People who care 
Do you care about anything? Besides yourself, those "loved ones" around you that you are supposed to care for, and perhaps your pet dog, what are your convic­tions? 
As college students, society expects us to have causes, beliefs, and opinions on everything. This is the one time in life when we can get away with supporting issues and ideals that run counter to the social norm. 
Society nods with bemusement when young people support communism, free love, and anarchy. But to sup­port these causes is understandable. After being kids and being considered brainless (or at least clueless) by society for so long, it is natural for young people to want to use their newly acknowledged faculties. 
Protesting society's norms is healthy for society. On­ly by examining our values are we able to keep them from becoming stale and unused. When this country went through a time of upheaval and prt>test known as "the sixties", America paused and questioned the course it had been pursuing as a country. I like to think that we emerged from this period as better people. 
The college years can be times ofidealism as well. As we learn about the world and how it works theoretical­ly, the process of solving a world crisis seems painfully easy. "Look! If we just sit 

expressed surprise and shock when informed that such a law existed. He then contacted other disabled veterans in the area in an effort to organize them. Last Monday the veterans called a press conference to an­nounce the formation ofa group dedicated to changing this law. 
These men, all patriots, feel let down by their own country. They are urging young men not to register for the draft -even though they support registration ­until the law is changed. None of them have much money, so they can't afford lawyers. Instead they are hoping to touch many people with their message, in the hope that they will join in to make their collective voice heard. Each faces a loss of the meager benefits he al­ready receives from a vindictive V.A. 
When asked why he is 

down and talk to the Rus­
sticking his neck out to sians, we can have world 

protest a , law he feels is peace! We can spend 
wrong, Steve answers, ''I'm defense money to feed the 
doing it for the young guys, poor!" The idealist has yet to 
the guys who might some­face the disillusions of 
day have to go fight some­reality. 
where, who don't realize Yet there is nothing 
they are denied their rights wrong with idealism. If we 
if they serve." stop dreaming of a better 
I met two older women world, no matter how im­
living in shocking condi­probable, those hopeful 
tions on South Bend's south ideas will die. 
side. Yet despite the despair The important thing 
in their lives, the daily about having a cause -be it 
tragedies they face, both idealistic, political, or 
remain optimistic about life, humanistic -is that you are 
and both spend their time willing to stick your neck • trying to help others. out. Having a cause means o~L_-One lady lives in a house 
.T that has been vandalized.
you are not another drone of 
the status quo, but a person ofindependent thought. 
In the past few weeks I have met several people who have impressed me with their dedication to what they feel is right. 
Steve Marozsan is a veteran ofWorld War II. Due to a recurring back injury he sustained while in the service, he has been unable to wor~ at a full-time job for the past few years. 
The Veteran's Administration ruled that Steve was only eligible for partial disability benefits. Steve claimed he was eligible for full payment and threatened to sue the V.A.. The V.A. laughed at the suggestion ofa lawsuit. Steve wa-; told that it was impossible for any veteran to attempt legal action against the V.A.. 
According to the Constitution, Steve thought, everyone was guaranteed his day in court. So he decided to do some research. After researching the Notre Dame Law School Library, Steve determined that a law passed in 1940 indeed did bar veterans from the right of judicial review ofV.A. decisions. 
Steve consulted several lawyers and each one 

The Observer 
Oesign Editor... Pitcher Neely ( 1 inning) (Thank You Ed) Relief Illig (!I inning') Design Assistant .................... Pinch hitters Laura Puk Sarah Hamilton Larout Staff ........................... Relief Rahbil 7):pesetters .......................... jim :\tacl.ennan 
Catcher Miouo News Etlilor........................ first has~ J)ietz Copy E<litor ............... Switch-hiler Dirker. Editorials Lm•out ...... Left tid<! Cerahona B & T Laroui.................. Manager Konra<ly Sports c",;py Editor ... Short stop Dziedzic 
Typist ...........................................Chris Perry ,VD oar Editor .......................... Dave Grote .\~WC /)~tl' Editor ........................ Tari Brown Atl/)esign ................................jeannie Euch Photographer .......................... Paul Cifdrelli Guest Appearances ......... Alex <Ia boss, I.e Chevalier et Cecile, Stale Cupcake,, 
Prcs~rving Pickles HHs-anc.J·runs. foul balb, Cubs' Fan Danielle 

"And, well,...thesc scissors came tlying ..." 
The Observer tUSPS 5!!8 920r ,, p~bhshed Mondd y thruu<Jh r lldd y ond on ho-ne luotbatl Satur\'1,; 1s c;:xcept dunng ex arT' tlfld VrH. dtll..dl pP! !Ud"> The Observer rs pubH,ned by lh>' students of Notre Da-ne dl1d S<Jon: Mdr y ~ C"t lege Subscrrpttons ondy ~'-' purchdSPd for 525 per year 1S15 per se•nPster I by wrrtrng The Observer P 0 Bux 0 l')lotre Da-ne lndrand 465~6 
The Observer rs a ·ne•ntwr •of The Associated Press Aa repr.xh.h.:11un rrghts are reserved 
Second class pustagc-prl>O at N1•tre 

Her pets have been killed, she has been ignored by her relatives, but despite this, her major concern in life is that the children in her neighborhood might not receive gifts this Christmas. This woman lives in the worst squalor I have seen, and yet her only concern is others. 
Another woman's family has been broken up. She lives alone, she is not healthy and cannot hold a paying job, however, her biggest thrill in life is doing what volunteer work she can for the Salvation Army. These women's causes are not lofty, they are not intellectual. They are simply human. 
On this campus, we have a number ofcharitable and service organizations. The work they do is excellent, yet when one considers what percentage of the total student body is involved, the numbers are dismaying. Most people would agree that the work these groups do is beneficial, but not many go the extra step and do some ofthe work themselves. This is a shame, because a few hours or dollars a week from all of us would make such a difference to people who need it most. 

Attention St. Mary's Students: 
You Can Buy Classified Ads 
at the St. Mary's 


Observer­
Office 
located in Regina South Basement 
Hours Sun-Thu~ 1-4pm 

ph 284-5365 


Da~~~?f41s·~:!,;:ti~;...,. >.:,~r~· r 11·~~1;.'';;:·~!i:~=r=:~;::·*;;#'~;~~::;-~=~·;··""'~=·J~~~...;:[i:;;;;·,:~;.;;:,<~;;·,~=s.================··=·"'=:=::II 
_,__-~-~--·:~ "';h··-.••. ~;:._~~':t~~-:-~+r ~··· ·:::}3 


-----------·------------------------­
The ObserYer Tuesday, October 19, 1982 page 3 


Amnesty International 
ND-SMCgroup w-orks to free tw-o 
By SONYA STINSON 
Senior StaffRepmter 
The :'1./otre Dame and Saint .\lary's students who make up Amnesty In­ternational (A.I.) Group No. "-13 are trying to bring an old Soviet man out of exile and help release a Syrian political prisoner. 
Since 1976, A.I. at Notre Dame has been working for the release of political prisoners and for the en­forcement of human rights around the world. A.!. (;roup No. 4~ is one of 450 A.l. groups in the United States. 
... Tour 

continuedfrom page 1 
made through the father of one of the Glee Club members. Planning for the event was then taken over by the university. 
The club has a long history of television appearances. In the mid­1950's, the Glee Club performed on the "Ed Sullivan Show" every Easter Sunday. It also has appeared on the "Andy Williams Christmas Special" and at the 1981 Sugar Bowl. 
The Glee Club practices daily, and, according to one of the mem­bers, "has been working diligently in anticipation of the 'Today Show' ap­pearance. 
The group, directed by Carl Stam, consists of 70 members -45 · ·~' whom compose the touring grv ., '· :\-lost of its major touring is· done during fall and spring breaks. It also goes on two weekend tours during the school year. 
Every three years the Glee Club travels to Europe for three to four weeks during the summer, with its next visit scheduled for the summer of 1984. Although the countries 
. they visit vary, Germany, Austria, Switzerland, France and Belgium are usually on the itinerary. 
One third of the money for the European trip is raised through the sale of the Glee Club's album. Con­tributions and about S'iOO from each member cover the remainder of the expenses. 
The next Glee Club performance on campus will be at its annual fall concert on November 6 at 8: I 5 p.m. in . Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium. 

Faculty Senate dismay falsely reported 
In Wednesday's article "Faculty Office Building brings ·complaint," Vaughn McKim, chairman of the Faculty Senate, erroneously was said to be dismayed that the s enate was not consulted concerning the design of the new building. The ar­ticle should have stated that the senate was dismayed over the lack of communication between the desig­ner of the building and the Arts and Letters faculty. As a result, the Senate drafted a letter expressing its con· cern and sent it to Father Hesburgh. Tbe Obseroer regrets this error. 
Rocco's Hair 


) ~ -~Styling 
, 531 N. Michigan St.. South Bend 
PMne .233-4957 
I 
sa mown••• 
There are two types of A.L or­ganizations -the campus group, which handle:-general human rights concerns, and the adoption group. which deals specitlcally with the release of political prisoners. The Notre Dame-Saint .\lary's group is unique among college campuses in that it is an adoption group. 
Group No. 4~ has two current adoption cases. One involves a Soviet engineer who was convicted of disseminating anti-Soviet propaganda, according to freshman 
John Dardis, the coordinator of the group. 
"He has already served an eight­
year prison term and is now in the 
middle of a five-year exile," Dardis 
stated. 
Freshman Bob Cox is the coor­
dinator of the Soviet campaign. He 
and others working on the case are 
writing letters to officials in the 
Soviet Union, including the ones 
who assign work at the prison. 
"We are trying to make things bet­
ter for him," Cox said. "For t:xample, 
we are trying to get him a job that is 
related to his profession." 
Cox thinks the letter campaign 
can help ease the situation for the 
prisoner because it r;nakes the Soviet 
officials aware that he is being 
monitored. He is due to be released 
in a year or two, Cox continued. 
"We are afraid that he might not 
be released on time," he remarked. 
"We have received information 
from London indicating he might 

not be released when he is supposed to be." Cox keeps informed of the situa­tion through correspondence from 
A.L researchers in the Soviet linion and from the family and friends of the prisoner. 
The other case that Notre Dame­Saint Mary's A.I. is working on con­cerns a Syrian lawyer who was arrested for taking part in a protest, Dardis explained. 
"His case is so sketchy that it has been transferred from an adoption case to an investigation case," he said. 
Junior Tony Musci, campaign coordinator for the Syrian case, said the mystery in this case is the loca­tion of the prisoner. "We have had no response from the Syrian authori­ties, and neither has our co-group in Italy, which is also working on the case," said Musci. "We have heard rumors that he had a trial and that he did receive a jail sentence." 
The Notre Dame A. I. will continue to write letters on his behalf, Musci said. 
All A.L adoptions are arranged through the International Secretariat ( l.S.) in London. The I.S. is a network of researchers and in­vestigators that receives news of the prisoner, usually from the family, Dardis said. They then verify the in­formation with an objective source before they take the case, he con­tinued. 
.....................A.RE··v·oU'i''cARE·E·R··c;oA'i:s""""""'"""~ 
COMPATIBLE WITH  ~  
YOUR PERSONALITY  ~  
* Learn the career fields that best suit your ~rsonai1!Y_  :i.  
* Direct your academic efforts efficiently  
* Prepare for the career offering greatest self:gratificat1on  
* Avoid time-wasting attempts to become what you are not  
* Learn the JJersonali!Y_ traits to work on to achieve your goals  
By compdnng your personality profile With  the personality prof1les  of  
thousands of successful  men  and  women  111 a vanety of career  r1elds .  
PERSONAMETRIX can determ~ne  the extent to wh1ch your personality is  
su1ted for a speof1c career.  
S1mply complete our 60-mJnute self-administered personality Inventory 111  
the pnvacy of your home and return 1t to us.  We Will assess your personal  
data professionally and  return  a comprehensive report descnb1ng your  
personality prof1le and the extent to which your profile resembles the pro­ 
files of those who have ach1eved success 1n career fields that 1nterest you.  
Send your name, address and 525.00 Jcheck or money order) to:  
PERSONAMETRIX  

9171 Wilshire Blvd., Suite 300, Beverly Hills, CA 90210 
,..........................................................................................................................•.... 
CALL TODAY FOR GUARANTEED RESERVATIONS Clip and save this schedule for easy travel plannin&! To O'Hare FromO'Hare 
LEAVE NOTRE DAME BUS SHELTER  ARRIVE O'HARE  LEAVE O'HARE  ARRIVE NOTRE DAME BUS SHELTER  
4:301.111.  7:1Sa Ill.  1:301.111.  11:110 1 ....  
5:30 l.m.  8:15a.m.  10:30 a.m.  1:110p.m. 
7:30 l.m.  10:15a.m.  12:30p.lll.  3:110 p.m. 
9:30 l.m.  12:15 p.m.  2:30p.m.  5:110 p.m. 
11:30 a.m.  2:1.5 p.m.  4:30p.lll.  7:110 p.m.  
1:30 p.m.  4:15p.m.  6:30 p.lll.  9:110 p.m 
3:30p.m.  6:15p.m.  8·30 p.m.  ~1:110 p.lll. 
5:30p.m.  8:15p.m.  11:110 p.m  1:30a.m.  

TIMES EFFECTIVE THROUGH OCT. 30, 1982. CALL FOR COMPLETE UST OF PICKUP POINTS AHD TIMES. 
FOR RESERVATIONS 
(219) 255~ 3068 
OR CALL YOUR 

TRAVEL AGENT. 

A lecture on "The Hem•enlJ• Writing: Celestial Inquiry in the An­cient Near East," was git•en by Dr. Francese a Rochberg in the J1.emorial Library lounge. (Photo by Paul Cifarelli) 



7pm--JQm 
CiO IRISH, PLUCK THE DUCKS! 


..f 
,. 
i·
,. 
F 
' j 
l I· '· 
I 
j I 

all Street Updat~ 
The stock market surged upward to its highest level in almost a year and a half yesterday as falling interest rates helped revive Wall Street's two-month-old rally. Numerous blue-chip and glamor stocks racked up dramatic gains amid evidence that the market's top names were attracting buyers at almost any price. Volume on the New York Stock Exchange, which has topped 100 million shares no less than 13 times since mid-August, fell well short ofthat mark in this session. '-AP 

Econo·mic Update 
Eli Lilly and Co. has announced that third-quarter sales were up more than S47 million over the same period in 1981 but net income was down S3.5 million. The Indianapolis-based company reported yesterday that third quarter sales were 5670.9 million, compared with 11623.8 million for the same period in 1981. Net income for the quarter totaled 1183.5 million, down from :!187 million the previous year. The decline was due, in part, to the withdrawal of Oraflex from the market, company officials said, adding that the one­time effect of the withdrawal amounted to 20 cents a share. The controversial arthritis drug was removed from the market earlier 
this year after reports linked it to deaths in the United States and 
Great Britain. Earnings per share during the third quarter were 
S1. 10, four cents less than the same period last year, the report showed. -AP 
Nine states. including four with double-digit joblessness, no longer can provide the unemployed with an additional 13 weeks of government benefits, the Labor Department said yesterday. The agency said these states had failed to meet criteria spelled out in federal law for continuing participation in the joint federal-state program of extended unemployment compensation benefits ­which provide 13 weeks on top of the basic 26-week paymem period for qualified individuals. -AP 

The South Bend Energy Expo was held last electric-powered car was priced at 510,000 and weekend at the Century Center. The "Lectric included many of the same features found in Leopard" ·was a highlight of the show. The compact cars. (Photo by Diana Butler) 
Engineering department 


Apple donates computers to ND 
By VIC SCIULLI display at the World's Fair in Knox­Assistatll News Editor ville, Tenn. The computer systems will be 
The Apple Computer Corporation used to support the work of Dr. Al­has donated approximately 50-80 bert E. Miller, associate professor of Apple II and Apple HI computer sys­Metallurgical Engineering, in tems to the Notre Dame Department developing computer software for of Engineering. The systems are on use in engineering disciplines. The 
Howtohave class betweenclasses. 
idea of the project is to develop a "smart" video disc with random access memory. 
The gift ofomputers is a result ofa proposal Miller submitted to the Na­tional Science Foundation, the Apple Corporation, and several other organizations, to put the fresh­man Engineering Concepts course on video disc. The goal of the con­cept would be to provide computer 
assisted instruction in a laboratory. 
The computers will be able to provide further explanations of classroom materials so that a student can know all the fundamentals of a process. The computers will also permit the application of engineer­ing concepts in a form that the stu­dents can visualize, like the optimization ofa system. 
Miller emphasized that the com­puters are not there to "circumvent" teaching but rather to introduce stu­dents to individual learning through microcomputers. Students will be able to work at their own pace and can spend as much time as is neces­sary until all the fundamentals of a process are understood. 
By the end of the course, Miller said, students will be able to sit down in front of a touch-sensitive disc terminal and "drive an engineering problem" to its comple­tion. Miller's proposed problem was the operation of a model power plant similar to the one at Notre Dame. Students would be able to control the input into the plant (coal) to optimize the output (steam). Students would be able to visualize all the theories involved through graphic representations on 
the screen. 
In addition to the Apple com­puters, the Engineering Department will also be receiving three fully configured systems from IBM. 
Thought has been given as to where the computers will be housed, but a definite place has not been decided. 
The additional computers will relieve the load on the presently overcrowded systems in Fitzpatrick Hall. They will be immediately used by the freshmen classes but will not become accessible to other classes until the software for the courses are developed. 
Miller and the entire Engineering Department are very excited about the computer gift, which Dr. Roger Schmitz, Dean of the College of Engineering, believes will launch not only Notre Dame but also the engineering field into a new era of computer instruction. 
?''
. 
' 



GENERAl f0008 
~'General Foods Corporation 1982 

---------------------~----­
Tuesday, October 19, 1982 -page 5



Editorials 

Acknowledging the homosexual student 
Last Monday, an editorial was printed in 
P.O. Box Q by the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's gay community. The immature reaction to the piece has been disgusting: 
"If I ever meet the queer who put that one in. I'll punch his fairy face in ... 
"Queerbaits make me sick. I'd love to tlnd the faggot who put that article in and abuse him." 

Diane Dirkers 

Campus Quips 
I've been hearing such responses all week. Students on this campus have been sending threatening letters to the organization. They've been signing their roomates up for the group "as a joke." 
This is not the first time the ND/SMC gay community has attempted to make its presence known. This is also not the first time gay students have been the butt of jokes, the victims of threats and the recipients of verbal abuse. Once, the group advertised a phone number -so many threatening calls were received that it was soon disconnected. 
Why the adverse response? 
The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's gay com­munity has offered its services for those who want to know more about homosexuality -· be they homosexuals, friends ofhomosexuals, or just curious. It is an informational service -not a group whose sole purpose is to·make this campus gay. 
no gay students exist. 
It is hard for me to imagine what it would be like to be a homosexual on such a homogeneous Roman Catholic campus. Roman Catholic values and roles assume heterosexuality. 
Homosexuality is considered an abnormal activity by most and a sin by many. An or­ganization is needed that will help homosexuals deal with these opinions in the ND/.SMC community and to deal with them­selves. 
As a heterosexual, I don't think I'll ever un­derstand why gays are gay. Although I do not harass or condemn homosexuals, I will admit that I feel uncomfortable around them. I can accept homosexuality, but I cannot under­stand it. 
One of the goals of the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's gay community is to help heterosexuals to communicate with homosexuals -not to convert us. 
Those who are compelled to threaten and harass the gay community are showing that they feel threatened themselves. It is as if accepting homosexuals is a sign of actually being gay. That simply is not true. 
"Agree to disagree." Once the harassers realize that they are not being propositioned, but just asked to have an open mind, homosexuals on both campuses will have their lives made just a little easier. They deserve·it. After all, they are students, too. 
Army militarizesstudentajd 

With nary a peep from official Washington cuts in student aid this election year, its· 1981 last week, the Army began offering to U.S. col­cuts left students scrambling for cash and col­lege students a package of extraordinary leges looking for new hustles. And though stu­recruitment incentives tied, for the first time, dent aid hovers at last year's level under a to student Joan debts. Through fiscal 1983, continuing resolution, proposals to reduce recruiters are authorized to absorb up to one­guaranteed and direct loans, as well as the Pell third of any student's accrued debt in ex­grants, are expected from the administration change for enlistment after graduation. during next month's lame-duck session of They're also luring Army Reserve candidates Congress. 
What's happening is a not-so-subtle shift in 
how the United States subsidizes higher 
education and its increasingly hard-pressed



Maxwell Glen 
patrons. By reducing aid to students and hiking educational benefits for both vets and


Cody Shearer 
enlistees, "student aid" becomes increasingly 
attached to military strength. Already, ot 
Here and Now course, all financial aid recipients must regis­
ter with the Selective Service System. 
We see nothing wrong with military 
with loan repayments of up to 15 percent tor service. And recent increases in educational 
each year ofservice. benefits that accompany servite have been 
This new program, ofcourse, is only an ad­long overdue. Given the economy, it's not junct to the Army's College Fund Program, surprising that student interests led to the ad­which provides a four-year enlistee with up to dition of I,000 four-year ROTC scholarships S23,61 0 annually and an additional S20, 100 for each arm ofthe service, as it did last year. in tuition money afterward. But the administration drives a hard bargain 

Recruiters caution that the benetlts with students by increasing military in­programs aren't exactly giveaways. Enlistees centives at the expense of student aid. It's must not only complete their education and liable to force many otherwise uninterested pass equivalency exams, but also be willing to students to accept the military contract for accept job openings in particular areas, such the lack of a better option. Unfortunately, as communications or medicine. facing a SI75 billion deficit, the White House 
While Pentagon officials admit the will probably have to push for deeper cuts in economy has more than helped fulfill recruit­social programs. If students and parents want ment quotas recently, they hope the loan to prevent military obligation from becoming repayment project can attract at least 2,400 the tlnancial aid of the future, the time is now well-qualified volunteers to fill the skill gaps. for them to identify their friends and foes in 
That there may be interest in loan repay­Congress. 
ment among students should come as no 
surprise; while Congress has balked at deeper Copyright 198.2, Field Enterprises, Inc.­


• 

Besieged byoff-campuscrinie 
Last Wednesday night, I slept with a Three times I went downstairs looking for in­baseball bat next to my bed. It was not there truders, prompted by some thump. because I was planning to knock a few around Although a bit of an overreaction, my fears with the housemates when they got in -I was were not completely baseless. Daily, the al­going to use it to cave in someone's head ifhe ready long list of houses broken into gets lon­tried to break into my house. I wa..o; soscared ger. After every weekend, The ObsenJer 
and paranoid, I did not sleep a wink until one usually carries a story or two about students ofmy housemates returned home from a date. being robbed and held at gunpoint during their excursions offcampus. 
Just the number ofcrimes involving guns byRobert Wack itself is unsettling. My next door neighbor in­formed us the other day that almost t:very Both Sides nocturnally active teenager in the neighbor­hood packs some kind ofhandgun. No wonder off campus people get edgy when crime is 
The previous Friday night, someone had at­mentioned. 
tempted to break into our house while we The general reaction to being ripped oft· or 
were all home. In the process of climbing up having to live in fear of your physical well­
to a second floor porch, the person(s) being is one of anger (after the fear has 
knocked out the powerline and cut off our subsided a little). When you're angry, you 
electricity. Two of my housemates were look for someone to blame. The police and the 
awake at the time and their bumping iQ the University are the first two logical targets. Un-• 
dark must have frightened the would-be fortunately, yelling at either of these two 
thieves. It was a hit unsettling the next morn­groups rarely produces any sort ofimmediate 
ing to see footprints on the side of the house action. 
leading up to a window next to my room. The South Bend Police Department or Saint 
The following Tuesday at I 0 p.m., one of my Joseph County Sheriffs Office'cannot cannot 
housemates was startled to hear hanging on he everywhere at once. The type of crimes 
the side door of the house, one we never use that are occurring take only :\0 seconds, the 
and is in total darkness at night. He went onto perpetrator then disappearing into the friend­
the front porch to see what was up. Two kids ly darkness of his home turf. 
were there fiddling with the door. Just then Notre Dame and Saint Mary's security 
another housemate coming home from the departments already have their hands full 
library happened to stroll up and make his with campus responsibilities and do not have 
presence known. The two kids said they were the authority to cruise around South Bend 
"looking for somebody" and then promptly looking after Notre Dame students. 
ran. What's an off-campus student to do? Most 
The next night I wa..o; home alone. At first, I importantly, be careful. Get to know your 
thought nothing ofit, having been alone many neighbors. Always lock up (although, if they 
times in my house last year and thousands of want to get in, they will. The number oflocks 
times before that back home. But then, as it only makes it take longer.) Report suspicious 
got later and later, and the house started to activity to the police. Even though they can­
creak and bump (as old houses will), my im­not he everywhere, they can stop by if some­
agination went to work. Fueled by the pre­thing funny is going on. Other than that 
vious week's events, it got me thinking about though, there really isn't much except to 
every sound in that house and what caused it. develop a very healthy siege mentality. 


==Ihe_-Obseaer== 
Editorial Board Department Managers 
Tbe Ohrerrw is an independent newspaper published by the students of the 

Editor-in-Chief..............................Michael Monk 
Business Manager .............................Tony Aiello
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not neressarily 

Managing Editor................Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller.......................................'......Eric Schulz 
rcfkl.'t the policies of the admtnistration of either institution. The news •~ report· 

SMCExecutive Editor............Margaret Fosmoe AdvertisingManager.......................Chris Owen
eJ as arcuratdy and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of 

Sports Editor...................................Chris Needles ProductionManager..................Maura Murphy
a maJority of the Ed1torial Board. Co.nmcntaries, opinions and letters are the views 

Editorials Editor ............................. Paul McGinn 
Circulation Manager .........................:Ray lnglin
of th(·ir authors. Column space is available to all members of the community. and 

Features Editor ...................................Tari Brown 
SystemsManager...........................Bruce Oakley
the free expression of varying opimons on campu~. through letters, i10 encounged. 

Photo Editor ...................................Rachel Blount 
Founded November 3, 1966 
P.O.Hox Q, Notre Dame, IN '16556 (..!19) .B9-H03 

.. 

~j)()~tS=[=j=~==i=~~~~S========~=====================Tu=e=sd=a=y,=O=c=to=b=er=I=9=,=19=8=2==p=a=ge==6 
By !he ( J!Jsen•er and /he Associated Pres., 
Runners have until tomorrowto sign up for 
the NVA six-mile run. for more information, call the NVA office at 2.W-51 00. -The Observer 
Student hockey tickets may he picked up at the ACC second tloor ticket window Thursday and Friday from 9 a.m. unti14 p.m. Additional student tickets which were not purchased via the summer applications will be on sale on a t1rst-come, t1rst served basis. Students wishing to sit together must present their I D's at the same time. Each student may present a maximum of four ID's. The student hockey season ticket price has decreased since the summer sale. The entire 16-game ticket package now costs Sl6. Arefund will be issued to those who paid the original price. -The Observer 
Novice Boxing Tournament nnals will take 
place at 4 p.m. tomorrow in the Boxing Gym of the ACC -The Observer 
Captains' meetings will be hetd tomorrow in the NVA office. Co-Rec volleyball captains will meet at 4 p.m. and Co­Ree basketball captains will meet at 4:30p.m. -The Observer 
Larry Gallo's Irish baseball team t1nished its fall season with a doubleheader sweep ofIllinois-Chicago Circle Sunday. David Clark hit a two-run homer and added an RBI single to lead the Irish to an 8-7 victory in the opener. Buster Lopes was the winning pitcher and Mark Clementz picked up the save. In the nightcap, freshman Brad Cross tossed a three-hitter as Notre Dame won 6-2. Notre Dame t1nished the season with a 6-7 record. -The Observer 
joe Buchanan and Ken Barlow. freshmen 
basketball players, will bt: the guests on WSND's (AM-64)Speaking ofSports tonight at I 0.-The Observer 

<i~}o INTERHALL 
INTERHALL WEEK IN REVIEW October 1 0-17, 1982 
MEN'S FOOTBALL Standings 
PARSEGHJAN DIVISION 1) x-Drlton (4-0-0) 2) Keenan (2-1-1) 3) Grace (2-2-0) 
4) Off-Campus (1-2-1 1 5) Mornssey (1-3-t) 6) Flanner (1-3-0) 

LEAHY DIVISION 1) y-Aiumm (4-0-0) 2) Holy Cross (3-1 -0) 3) Zahm (2-2-0) 4) Stanlord (2-2-0) 5) Cavanaugh (1-3-0) 6) Pangborn (0-4-0) 
ROCKNE DIVISION 
1) St Ed s (3-0-0) 2) Howard (2-0-1) 3) Sonn (1-1-1) 4) Carroll (1-3-0) 5) Frsher (0-3-0) x-Chnched drvrsron trtle y-Chnched playoll spot 
NVATOPSIX 
1) Drlton 
2) Alumnr 
3) St Ed s 
4) Holy Cross 
5) Keenan 
6) Howard 

Playoffs wrll begrn after October break and wrll con­SISt of four teams: the three drvrsronal champrons and one wrld card team Schedules wrll be publrshed then When they are published, please remember that the team hsted on the bottom must wear whtte Jerseys 
WOMEN'S FOOTBALL Standings 

No standings were received tor women's foot­ball. Be sure to call the NVA oHice (239-6100) and report your results so that standings can be compiled. 
,,,.,,,,,,,.,.,,. ·' .,....,..
SoCCER ;'@§;;;;;;(;''''''';::;.;;;.,.,.;:;;,,,.

1
~;~~~~~-~-i~~·~~ 
MEN'S SOCCER Standings Aso!Oct. 13 
DIVISION I 

t) 
Drlton I (4-0) 

2) 
Alumnr (3-1 I 

3) 
Flanner A (2-2) 4) Oil-Campus (2-2) 5) Keenan I1 -3) 

6) 
Grace It (0-4) 


DIVISION II 
t) 
St Ed s (4-0) 2) Mornssey (3-0) 

3) 
Stanlord (3-1 I 4) Carroll (2-3) 


5) 
Flanner B (1-3) 

6) 
Drlton II (1-4) 

7) 
Holy Cross (0-4) 

DIVISION Ill 1) Howard (3-0) 21 Cavanaugh (3-1) 
3) Grace I (3-1) 4) Zahm (2-2) 5) Sorrn (1-3) 
6) Pangborn ( 1-3) 
7) Frsher (1-4) · 
16-INCH SOFTBALL 

·The Last of Fozzre s Bears. the Drlton Hall entry captarned by Rob Berner. defeated Floyds Under Pnvrlegad lrom Zahm Hall (captarned by Dan Marer) last week to clarm the 16-rnch softball champronshrp 

CROSS COUNTRY Results from October 14 lnterhall Cross Country Meet 
Highlights: Teammates Greg Allen. Dan Shannon 

and Jeff Westhaven hmshed 1. 2 and 3 to lead Morns­say Hall to 1ts second consecutive cross country meet 
v1ctmy 1n as many weeks 
Team Results 

1) Morrrssey 
2) Flanner 
3) Hoi y Cross 

BOXING 
Novice Tournament Results 

1321bs. Crarg Cataman def John Geetan. Mrke Arello del John Kurth 
1401bs. Marty Tyne del John Lally. Matthew Albano del Lohn Lally 
150 lbs. Paul Darber def Jrm Srlver; Greg Arbour del Bob Be· ssette 
1541bs. Joe Collins def Kevtn DoHan: Mark Pnmtch det Pat Hrckte 
1581bs. Andy Clemency def Joe Mezzapesa; John Dunn def Mark Angrully 
1621bs. Ed Grogan del Robert N ye. Dave Odland del John Berry 
1671bs. Brll Butler def Greg Lezynskr, Dan Walsh del Slivro Pectnr 
180 lbs. Mrtchell Nrhart del Mrke Schmrdt. Jrm Krnney def Paul Tnmber Note: The wtnners tn each werght class wtll meet 1n the champtonshrp round Tomorrow begmntng at 4 p m rn the Boxrng Room of the ACC 
Classifieds  The Observer wtll accept class1fleds Mon­day through Friday. 10 a.m. to 4 30 p m However. classtfieds to appear ;n the next ;ssue must be· recetved by 3 p.m. the bus1ness day prior to 1nser110n All class1f1eds must be prepaid. e1ther 1n person or through the mail.  
Need nde to or near San Antomo, TX for Need rrde to N W suburb ol Chrcago break Wfshare usual Call Steve at 1777 (Aigonqurn) for Jail break Please callNOTICES Tracy x8009 NEED 2 RIDES TO VERMONT OR AREA Rrde needed to andfor from COLLEGE BOWL MEETING -TUES­FOR OCT BREAK CALL RICH 1625 BLOOMINGTON. IN lor trrst weekend of DAY, 7:00 PM, CCE 202. CAPTAINS break Can leave 2:30 Frr . would like to AND NEW PLAYERS WELCOME Need nde to MILWAUKEE, Frr Oct 22-­return Mon or Tues Wrll share usual Call can leave anyttme after 11 am STOP wtll Nrckat 1434 Ftyrng Fongers typrng servrce Proofread­share usual expenses call She1la 289· Ing and edttmg tncluded 85 cents a page 9304 Margaret or Ann 277-1624 Rrde needed to andfor from MADISON, WI second halt of break Would prefer to NEED RIDERS to NYC for break Catt A1de needed to Lafayette, IN or towards leave Wed, return Sun 10131 Wrll share 277-0955 lndranapotrs for Oct break Call Tom usual Call Nrck at 1434 1396 RIDE NEEDED GOING SOUTH!!! NEED Need rrde to St Lours lor Oct break RIDE TO OR NEAR LITTLE ROCK Wfshare expenss Call Mary 233-4598. ARKANSAS! READY TO LEAVE AFTER LOST/FOUND 3:00pm THURSDAY WILL SHARE WASH DC INO VA Need rrde to the USUAL CALL 1 318 aforementtoned for October break Wtll LOST. Oval St Chnstopher's medal. one share the usual Call John at 1817 to one & one half large. between Lewts Need rrde to lndranapohs Thurs Oct 21 Halt and the Huddle or the Huddle and the A1de needed to Cleveland tor break· w1ll Need to leave around 1 t :00. Call H Ltbrary It IS made of Stiver Call Kevm share expenses Call Joe at 3625 t592 rf lound Reward rf found NEED ONE RIDER TO NORTHERN VIR­Help South Bend Juliet wants to see her GINIA FOR OCT BREAK Lost, Black and whrte pearl nng some­Mtlwaukee Romeo If you could gtve me a (ANNANDALE( FAIRFAX AREA) CALL where tn the v1cintty of Madeleva and the nde to Mtlwaukee on Oct 23 after the SMC 5442 or 442t WOULD PREFER scrence burldrn on SMC campus. Very GMATs, I d apprecrate rt! Writ share the ROUNDTRIP RIDER valuable and has sentimental worth If usual If you re Mtlwaukee bound, pleaselound PLEASE call Lome at 5484 call Juhe at 3882 FOUND: Anne Klern change purse Call Ann Arbor/Detroit IS where tiS at! 3889 (Actually where he s atl) II you re headed TICKETSto Ann ArborfDetrort lor break, I d be eter­LOST:Yellow FolderITan notebook rn C­nally gratelul lor a rrde. teavrng Oct. 23 hne,N.D.H.,10114 Please return to Paul aher the GMAT s Writ share the drrvrng3405. and expenses. It you can help me out. WILL PAY BIG MONEY FOR 4 PENNplease call Lrsa at 3882 Thanks! FOUND: 1981 class ring rn Math & Comp STATE GA TIX. CALL 312-565-5959 Burtdrng orange stone call Grna 6553 at COLLECT AND ASK FOR STEVE 212 Lewrs LONGLEY. 2 beauttful women need a nde to St. Louts LOST: PENT AX 35mm camera. for break. Wrll share expenses Call Marre NEED ANY KIND OF PENN STATE TIX In Green Freid area. Help! Call 1025. or Sylvra SMC-5447 CALL MEG-7628 HEPL!!I lost my class nng on Saturday! AIDE NEEDED TO ROCHESTER OR Need Penn State Gas. Wrll pay cold hard Black onyx wrth dramond in the moddle, on­BUFFALO NY FOR BREAK CALL cash. 8539 itials HLS 83on the insrde ..I cant leave 4 SUSAN 6983 years at N.D without somethrng to show NEED4 GAS FOR PENN STATE GAME lor ot!!l Please call3564, or 8055 Reward Need nde back lrom Navy game at CALL TRACEY 5201 (SMC)Meadowlands Call Steve 8986 Need 6 PENN ST GAs$$ SMC 5467IF YOU NEED A AIDE TO LEXINGTON, KENTUCKY, CAlL DAN AT 277-3832. NEED PENN ST GAs BIG TIME! $$$FOR RENT HELP! I need a rrde to Boston or Framrn­CALL 1627 gham area lor Oct break I need to leave Thurs by noon. Also need a nde for 1 TWO PENN ST GAs BST OFFER-8112 Nice Jurnished house 2 blocks to N.D. returnmg to campus from Snngfield area 555 277-3604 or 288-0955. on Sunday Oct. 31. Call Nat -1182 wt11 pay any amount necessary for two Student Housrng -Clean -Sale. NEED RIDERS FOR FALL BREAK TO Penn State GA tickets Call Paul at 272­$100fmo 291-1405. LANCASTER-LEBANON PA AREA 5744 or leave a note rn tha · L box at the CALL JEFF 232-4731 Law School Furn. ellicrency $t 00. Also 1 bedroom apartment $175. Call255-8505. NEED rrde to TWIN CITIES lor Oct break NEEDED DESPERATELY! 2 g.a trx to will share usual. Bill-3156 555 the penn st game The earlier you call the more deluxe your bux. call matt277·4573 Tentatrvely need riders lor rent-a-car to Philadelphia, or vrcinity, leaving Sunday NEED TICKETS FOR PENN ST OR aher the GMATs. Call Chrrs Needles at PITT GAME CALL GOODILL AT 232­WANTED 1240 or 239-7471 and leave a message. 4731 DESPERATELY NEED AIDE to or near I NEED PITT.PENN St GAs $$$CALL NEEDED: RIDE or RIDES to PITTS­CINCINNATl for break Will gladly share BRENDAN 3207 BURGH!!! call TOM, 1754 or BRIAN, costs. Terry 6714 610511 (for fall break)-­PITTSBURGH. I need the BEST 6 GAs for Penn State prttsburgh, PITTSBURGH, pittsburgh-­PLEASE! I need nde to Mrnn Wrll pay. Must be 15 yd hne or better Catt me.. t Dave30:W have the $. Steve-1 061 RIDERS needed to ALBANY,NY area Need to borrow (or rent) a framed back­NEED 2 Penn State GAs and 1 student trx tetwng this FAI call 1007 ask for peck lor October break. Call John Grbbon lor tamrty $$ Please catt Nancy 4449 BOND,JAMES BOND serrous at 283-8214 (SMC)  GOLLY JEEPERS' I need two PENN STATE GAs, brg brother would lrketo see a game wtth Poo r.~u nA\tF= .:lit, H:.c:. ,------­----· I PERSONALS ) LADEEZ AND GENTLEMEN Announcing the victorious PUGILISTS from the m1ghty first floor of KEENAN HALL Marty Tyrie -wrnner of a bloody brawl by unantmous decrsron A tough gurdo rf there everwds one. Marty JUSt has to keep hrs head head up when he next lights hrs good tnend Melt Albano · how s 11 hangrn, Cookre? Matt drsposed of hrs toe desprte some recurnng pams T on1te he m1ght be hav1ng trouble hke Marty. but promrses to be rn good shape and brg shorts for hrs next match Greg "The Wild" Arbour-Frrst to send hts opponent to the canvas, Greg used hts vtctous Cajun Letty style to. tn the words of a not so famous ex-wrestler. pummel h1m 1nto a senseless heap t One and all must congratulate these line noVIce Bengal Boys today because they all showed what tough guys they really are. And if you don't, they might pummel you into a senseless heap! Need a ride to either northern New Jer­sey (right oH Rt 80) or the Allentown, Pa. area lor October break. Can leave Wednesday, Oct. 20. Call Mike, 2n­4300. ASSOCIATE WITH US HOLY· CROSS ASSOCIATES, 1-2 YR. POSTGRAD SERVICE PROGRAM WITH SIMPLE CHRISTIAN LIFESTYLE IN USA AND CHILE. CHILE DEADLINE NOV. 4. CALL MARY ANN ROEMER 5293. BOSTON BIJS LEAVES FRIDAY AT 4 PM NO LATER! ARRIVE BY 3:40 HAP­PY HOUR COMMENCES AT 4;l5 LEAVES FROM CCE LOOK OUT BOSTON HERE COMES ALB Ill, J P , GALLAGHER. & BILLY THE COMBAT ZONE WILL NEVER BE THE SAME WELL SAVE A SCORPION BOWL FOR YOU JOHNNY. GUSH, & BERTCH.·M J Laura-I reahze I m not perfect. but am I reaII y mean? I have never been mean to you-only drsappornted and angry Thus rt was proctarmed: Enough alreli(J,y No more Open Season. SENIORS FOR 1983-85, CONSIDER WORK WITH HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES PROGRAM IN CHILE. APPLICATION DEADLINE NOV. 4TH. CALL MARY ANN ROEMER 5293. The L-5 Socrety presents Mr L Boyle of the Ci1•cago 'society lor Space Studres speakrng about; SPACE PROGRAMS AROUND THE WORLD Come to LaFortul'e rm 20 at 7:30pm on Tuesday Oct 19 and CHECK IT OUT! Don t let Gra11rty get you down!  Good tuck Drana C at the NY Marathon! SPECIAL THANKS to M GO MOM GO! Love Steve Meyer,Gary.Larry.Ed.Fianner.8th Floor ,Anne C ,& J Snow for tmmense '83--SENIORS--'83 Pre-Halloween support dunng a tough trme P CLARK Costume Party at Senior Bar Wed. Oc­tober 10, 1982 Prizes, Food, Specials, KAA, & a live Band Thanks lor grvrng tate a shove You rea great roomte and a better frtend HELP' I need a nde to CINCINNATI for Eternatty yours, October Break' Call Sue x1759 MARK The Semor Class 1n conJunction w1th the Thanks to everyone who made the ftrst Alumnr-Senror Club rs throwrng one heck New Muslk Nuclear Blowout so suc­of a pre-halloween SOCIAL EX­cesslul and progressrvely excrtrng Look TRAVAGANZA. Be there Wed Nrte, rn out nght aher break! And to the Antr-New costume!! Wavers Club, sorry you could not make rt; you would have learned somethrng lor VOLUNTEER OPPORTUNITY FOR once--anyway, we were so hoptng you CHRISTMAS BREAK: Would you like to would "crash Oilll T spend a week durrng Chrrstmas break help1ng needy tam1l1es in rural Appalachta JIM MEANY!!!!!!!! Not only have you had and the South. workrng wrth the Gtenmary your name on the radro. but tn the paper Home Mrssroners? Contact VSO 239­toot You are too cool Thanks for a great 52931or rnlormatron • ttme Fn mght! LOST N D Letter jacket PLEASE Return 01111 01111 Oilll Should have left a rt!! Reward x1981 phone number...Oilll HOW ABOUT AMSTERDAM? lnterna­HEY TIM! HAPPY BIRTHDAY, OLD tronal Suitcase Club Party, Thurs. Nov 4, MAN' LOVE, KATHY 8:30PM SMC Clubhouse Members and guests welcomed ATTENTION THEOLOGY MAJORS Meet Prol Josephrne Ford rn an rnfor­WOMEN OF NDISMC: Trm Bartrand and mal questronrng forum Thrs THURSDAY Jerry Curtrn, two fully rrpe appleheads, lrom 4·30 -6·00 rn room 331 0 Shag are acceptrng obscene Brrthda y calls and (Faculty Lounge) relreshments writ be ktsses tn person Wed at Semor Bar served See you there!!! HAPPY BIATHDA Y BARTY and STOOPUH! NEED A SOCIAL LIFE? II you re lookrng Srgned. Appleheads Anonymous for ways to 1mprove your soc1al hfe. come jotn our co-ed growth group For more In­0111101111 formation call Sandy or Sally at the C & PSC (239-7336) or stop by the thrrd floor 01111 01111 01111 Where were you, ol the Student Health Center punka?OIIII Dearest Jarlbart. 01111 Pretty gutsy and intelligent; What rs the purpose ot thrs personal? creative too. 0111101111 What rs the purpose of hfe? What are you do1ng over break? How many green HeySuzoe Chrnese pots rna dozen? 12. orrs rl20? Is What a dancer I it on the board? It rs the board! Drng Drng But you re Republican? Ding Anythrng you can do, t can do better Ohwell Perhaps Practrce makes perfect HAH Chr,ock HAH HAH HAH Heres harr rn your eye! The 3rd one on campus MOSEMAN WAS A YOUNG RESIDENT, OUT HE WENT TO SET A HELP ME PLEASEIIIost my philoaphy PRECEDENCE. text-Phllosphy: The Basic Jssuea by OVERCOMIN(> HIS FEAR Klemke.l have a teat this Thursday t111d HE ASKED AN AERO ENGINEER the bookstore Ia sold out. I will pay TO THE DR S BALL, MISS HRITZ bucka lor one --·s uM of this WOULD GO, book. PluM call Diane at 7913. AS HIS WIFE, SHE WOULD LOVE SO IF MARK. AL YSON COULD MARRY, Dewee. ' AND HIS BABY SHE WOULD CARRY Happy 2 year and 1 day Annrversary! WE VE HAD OUR SAY, I love you forever IN THE OBSERVER TODAY Your Gutu WITH KELLY & JILL WE HAD FUN, ,NOW THE BALL~ jN YOUR COURT atMM ALYSON!!! ·,.' I LOVE YOU & srngrng to you. walkrng backtoSMC · THE TRUE BLUE BREW CREW CAN­Luv always. Toad NOT BE SUBDUED SUTTER doesn t P S call me and tell me the date have enough FINGERS to stop HAR­VEYS WALLBANGEAS Congrats to Shannon. COOP (Mr. Clutch). ROCKIN ROBIN Have a DAMN good 19th Brrthday!! (everyone s MVP), STORMIN GORMAN, Let s go to Coaby s loa some be as MOLLY the IGNIITER. VUKE, BENJI. love. TED. and CHARLIE Specral wrshes lor your roomte· Jennr my favor-rte. JIMMY GANTNER. baseballs no 1 no.9 hrtter I may bern Dil­BILL COLLERAN lon, but my hearts partyrng rn WISCON­HAVE A HAPPY 21ST-WELl BE SIN GO BREWERS--MICHAEL READY TO BOOGIE AT SB AFTER LUUUVS VA!! PS--EIIen get cookre BREAK! TOMMY-(TOM) WERE STILL dough.Pete get wallet out Good luck Sue WAITING and Heather--KILL NO!! SILVI AND CALLAHAN  


FRED GINGER c)gtoUte ~ogef{g 
in 


Monday, November 8 


SHALL WE DANCE 

8p.m. 
JUu.~i(· b~ Qeol!ge n.nd ..Shto Qelt.d,win 

tix $1 0.50 and $11.50 
0onite (r')('t_ IY 8:00. 10:00 


On sale atthe S.U. Box Office 
Ckwt(luqun. ~n.Q0toom 2nd eQoo.~ ~n.::Jl ~tune 
•




S1.00 ~ 1 

Ihe~rver========================================= 


~~4()l~~=============================T=u=e=s=d=ay='=O=c=t=o=b=e=r=1=9=,=19=8=2====p=a=ge==7
Garry Trudeau 


Jeb Cashin


Simon 
O.K. Ctll~:), THAT 1~1'\RLL 
illf t-101E5 FoR ToOAY... \ 


Doonesbury 
Campus 
•12:30 
p.m. -Sociology Lecture, "Puritan America in the Modern World: Mission Impos­sible?" Prof Edward A. Tiryokian, Duke University, 242 O'Shaughnessy 

•4 
p.m. -Seminar, "Epitaxial Growth of Com­pound Semiconductor Material," Dr. L. R. Dawson, 254 Fitzpatrick Hall 

•4:30 
p.m. -Biology Lecture, "Linkage Be­tween Aquatic and Terrestrial Ecosystems," Dr. Gene E. Likens, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 

•7, 
9, and II p.m. -Film, "Goldfinger" Engineer­ing Auditorium, Sponsored by Joint Engineering Council, Sl 

•.,:30 
p.m. -Presentation, Man's Purpose in Life, Admiral Hyman Rickover, USN, Library Auditorium, Sponsored by College of Engineering, Open to the Public 

•~:~0 
p.m. -Slide Show, Space Programs Around the World, Mr. L. Boyle, 2-D LaFortune, Sponsored hy L-'i Society 

•H, 
and 10 p.m. -Film, "Shall We Dance," Chautauqua Coffeehouse, Sponsored hy ND Stu­dent l!nion, 

•H 
p.m. -Art Lecture, "Reality and Illusion in Dutch Painting," Arthur Kingsland Wheelock, Jr., Annenberg Auditorium 

•9 
p.m. -Right to Life Guest Speaker, Discus­sion of Human Life Issues, Janet Smith, LaFortune Little Theatre 

•1 
0 p.m. -Call in Talk Show, Speaking ofSports, Will Hare, WSND-AM 6-t 


T.V. Tonight. 




The Daily Crossword 
6p.m. 
6:30p.m. 
7p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8P.M. 
8:30p.m. 9p.m. 
lOp.m. 
!0:30p.m. 
llp.m. 
11:30 
Br• 
The saga of a
1an 
6 month old domer. 


16 NewsCentd 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 2H 34 The MacNeil/Lehrer Report 16 M*A*S*H* 22 family feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 16 World Series Game 6 22 Bring Em Back Alive 28 Happy Days 34 NOVA 28 Laverne and Shirley 22 CBS Tuesday Night Movie: 28 Three's Company 
34 .\-lystery 28 9to5 28 Hart to Hart 34 League of Women Voters 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 2/i 34 Dick Cavell Show 16 Tonight Show 22 Quincy and McMillan & Wife 28 ABC News Nightline 34 Captioned ABC News 28 fantasy Island 16 Late Night with David Leuerman 
• 
• 
.. 

6~ @l)' /-I 
:t MISS£()0 
~/; 
~HAT'. THE. 4 111 n"'c ycu\.J-!­
w~?.S~D' a.JU.. 
MOP£ AND 1'u.. 
CAl-• DCWN Tl1€ 
vJAATH OF bot> 
otJ '{ou..1 


ACROSS 1 Takeon the back 5 Liquid left-overs 10 Reduce 
to pulp 14 Lined up 15 Spectral 16 Concerning 17 Record 18 Kindof 
drive 20 Atlantic Ocean cape 21 -ex 
mach ina 22 Winged 23 N.Y. city 25 Gargantuan 27 Inventor's 
concern 
29 Sleeping equipment 33 Killer 
whales 34 Morsel 36 Eggs 37 Arthur's 
father 39 Lode find 40 -on 
(audit) 42 Ananias specialty 
43 French cathedral city 
46 Laurel 47 Canines 49 Ant group 51 Bone: pref. 52 City on the 
Willamette 53 Computing 


devices 56 Field unit 57 Birling 
need 60 Old·fash· ioned one 63 City of Ohio 64 Give references 65 "Common Sense" man 66 Don Juan's 
mother 67 Blind part 68 Mount 69 Miles of 
the movies 
DOWN 1 Solong 2 Algerian 
seaport 3 One in a 
thousand 4 Ram's dam 5 Overthrows 6 T.V. fare 7 Cupid 8 Sloe­9 Defeat 
10 Composer 
Gustav 11 Cruising 12 End of mob 
or lob 13 Sacred 19 O.T.B. 
concerns 
Monday's Solution 

21 Hang-out 24-majesty 25 Asylum 26 Indian 27 Turkey tot 28 Bandsman 
Shaw 29 Telegrams 30 Final 
impact 31 -·les· 
Bains 32 DeVito of "Taxi" 
35 France's longest river 
38 "-in the 
Sun" 41 -of Wight 44 NewYork 
player 45 Defaced 48 Weapon 50 Rah's 
relative 52 Public row 53 Basics 54-out 
(rescue) 55 -part 
(pretend) 56 Rose's beau 58 Hebrew 
measure 59 -Strip 61 Exhilara· 
ting times 62 Foot wiper 63 Ullmann 

~------------------------~~~~~~~------------~ 
Tuesday, October 19, 1982-page 8 
S~orts 

Game 6 tonight 
Bre\Vers defense shines in clutch 


ST. LOUIS (AP) -It is the com­mon lament of the Milwaukee Brewers. 
"Nobody ever gives us credit for ,.. being a good defensive Club," says Brewers Manager Harvey Kuenn. 
Milwaukee is in a position tonight to wrap up baseball's 79th World Series at St. Louis in Came 6. Mil­waukee took a )-2 lead in games in the best-of-seven series on Sunday in Milwaukee, beating the Cardinals 6­4 with the help of at least four out­standing detens~ve plays. 
In Game 6, the Brewers will send Don Sutton, -i-1 since coming over from Houston on Aug. )0. against rookie John Stuper of St. Louis, 9-7, in a rematch of Game 2. Sutton lost 
that battle S-4, although Stuper was gone after four innings. Came 7, if necessary, is scheduled for tomor­row night in St. Louis. 
Although the Brewers hit a major
• lt:ague-leading 216 home runs during the regular season, their of­
Don Sutton will pitch for the Milwaukee Brewers againstjohn fense during the Series has been Stupor and the St. Louis Cardinals tonight in Game 6 ofthe World built largely on singles, doubles and Series. Sutton was the losing pitcher in Game 2. See story at right. opportunism. (APPhoto) 
Ted Simmons homered for Mil­waukee in Game 1 and again in Game 2. Cecil Cooper homered in 
NFL strike continues 

Negotiations going nowhere 
COCKEYSVILLE, Md. (AP) Sources on both sides yesterday said negotiations aimed at ending the 28­day-old National Football League players strike appear to be crum­• bling. "There is a growing feeling among the participants this is going nowhere," a union source said as the talks entered their seventh day. And a member ofthe Management Council, the owners' bargaining unit, said the talks seem to be heading "not toward an agreement." 
Both sides met independently with a mediator yesterday morning. The talks were recessed at 1 p.m., EDT, with both sides scheduled to sit down face to face later in the night. 
The mediator, 7 :3-year-old San Francisco lavvyer Sam Kagel, said he spent part of the afternoon in Bal­timore after being given "hardship leave" by both sides. 
Asked to respond to the pessimis­tic comments offered by both management and union sources, Kagel replied: "I can't account for anybody's frame of mind. I have dif­ficulty with my own." 
On Sunday, The Associated Press learned, the union was preparing to modifY its wage-scale demand in an effort to achieve an agreement. One moditkation suggested by union sources was the exemption of the superstars from the scale and allow­
ing them to continue to bargain with 
the owners on an individual basis. 
In another futile effort to sell to 
the owners the union's demand for a 
wage scale, union chief Ed Garvey 
met secretly Sunday with Dan 
Rooney, president of the Pittsburgh 
Steelers and a member of the 
owners' executive committee. 
At that meeting, the sources said, Rooney reiterated the owners' op­position to the wage scale plan. 
Yesterday, Garvey, union presi­dent Gnae Upshaw, Management Council chief Jack Donlan and owners' counsel Sargent Karch met without the presence of mediator Sam Kagel to again discuss the wage scale. Once again, Donlan informed the union that under no cir­cumstances would the league ac­cept the wage-scale concept. 
With the talks at an impasse, Garvey held a secohd secret meeting Sunday with Ted Turner, the head ofTurner Broadcasting Sys­tem, an Atlanta-based cable televi­sion sysem which is bankrolling the union's "Players All-Star season." 
Turner is reportedly prepared to announce plans fo_l' a "Players League." Under it, rosters would be structured along the lines of NFL teams, rather than an all-star format. 
The tlrst in a series of20 proposed union-sponsored games was played Sunday in Washington's RFK stadium to a disappointing crowd. The union. said 8,760 tickets were 


NFC East and AFC East all-stars ph~red Sundt~V in front of t1.. sparse crowd at Washington's RFK Stadium. See story abot•e for news about the crumbling strike negotiations. ( AP Photo) 
sold to the game in the 56,000-seat stadium, about 7,000 below the break-even point, according to promoters. And of those 8,760, es­timates of the actual turnstile count varied from 2,000 to 5,500. The promoters, who had hoped for a crowd of 20,000, said they will lose SIOO,OOO. 
Game 3, and Robin Yount hit a home run in Game 5, but the only real show ofpower during the Series was by St. Louis. Even that was a one-man exhibition by rookie Willie McGee, who homered twice in Game ~­
"You guys said we're a power­hitting te;tm and didn't want to talk about our defense," Milwaukee tlrst baseman Cecil Cooper said. "Now, our defense is what you want to talk about. Well, we're a good defensive ballclub." 
Only the figures contradict Cooper. The Brewers committed seven errors in the tirst tlve games of the Series, including three by second baseman Jim Gantner. But many of those errors have been off­set by run-saving plays. 
The tlrst of those plays was made by Gantner in the third inning Sun­day. St. Louis already had scored a run on David Green's two-out triple and a double by Keith Hernandez. George Hendrick, with only two hits in his previous 14 at-bats, came to the plate and tomahawked a high bouncer up the middle for a single off Mike Caldwell. 
Gantner made a lunging play on the ball in back of the bag, forcing Hernandez to stop at third, and the next bauer, Darrell Porter, grounded out routinely to Gantner. 
"You read about all their hitting," 
Hernandez said, "but they've got it 
all around. They've got a bunch of 
garners. We both do, but the key to 
the game was their four defensive 
plays. 
"They made the key plays when 
they had to. We got 15 hits, and it 
just wasn't enough." 
In the fourth inning, it was Paul 
Molitor's turn. Molitor, who has 
played four positions in the past four years, has struggled at third base. 
But with one out in the fourth in­ning, the Cardinals had runners at tlrst and second -with the help ofa Gantner error -and Ozzie Smith at bat. Smith hit a high chopper toward third. Molitor made a leaping catch, stepped on the bag for one out and tired to Cooper at tlrst for a rally­killing double play. 
It was Charlie Moore's turn in the tlfth inning. 
Moore, a catcher turned right tlel­der, had made a mental mistake in the third, diving for Green's dying quail to right and allowing it to bounce under his glove for a triple. He made amends in the tift h. 
Lonnie Smith, leading off for St. Louis, hit a line drive to Moore's right side. It had "gapper" written all over it, but Moore made a diving catch for the out, robbing the Car­dinals ofa leadoff double. 
In the seventh mning, Cooper was called on to kill a St. Louis rally. Caldwell, who wound up yiddng H hits in his 8 1-3 innings, walked Ozzie Smith to lead off the St. Louis seventh. A single by Lonnie Smith sent Ozzie to second, and one out. later, Smith was erased by a tlclder's choice grounder by Hernandez that sent Ozzie to third. 
Hendrick's single up the middle scored Ozzie, and the Cardinals still had men at tlrst and second with two out when Porter came up for his turn agaist Caldwell. 
Porter hit a bouncer between Cooperand Gantner. Cooper lunged for the ball, snared it and fell to the ground in a spray of dust. He recovered in time to make the throw to Caldwell, covering tlrst, and the Cardinals were closed out of anoth­er potentially big inning. 

You must remember this . 
A loss is still a loss 
Rick: "Does the story hm•e a surprise ending?" 
llsa: "/don't know the ending yet." 
Rick: "Well, go uhead and tell it, maybe one will come 
to you." 

I saw two shows last weekend. One wa~ a love story, in which the hero makes a great sacrifice for the lady he loves. The other was an adventure-thriller in which, in­credibly, the bad guys win. 
Given the confusion and chaos of the weekend just past, the two shows have blended together in my memory, making them seem to be one and the same. I sat, enraptured once again, as Bogart and Bergman spoke the familiar lines of Casablanca Friday night. Then I sat, perplexed once again, as the Notre Dame football team ran the all-too-familiar plays against Arizona Saturday afternoon. 
In both shows, you could guess at the ending, if you observed the action with enough attention. There was no way, given Bogart's respect for marriage, (after all, he did save that poor young girl, whose husband was losing at roulette, from the clutches of the lecherous Capt.,Renault) that he could actually go off to America with lisa. Similarly, there was no way, given Notre Dame's general absence of offense in the second half. (after all, they got only 52 yards) that they could actual­ly pull off the victory. 
The Nazis were marching on Paris, and it was just a matter of time before they caught up with Rick. He was lucky to escape. Opponents were creeping up, coming closer to an upset every week, and it was just a matter of time before ineptitude caught up with Notre Dame. They were not lucky enough to escape this time. 
Time and again, Rick tells people "I stick my neck out f(>r nobody." Gerry Faust, too, was apparently unable to Mick his neck out and take a chance. Time was running out in the half. Notre Dame had three time outs left. MikeJohnston, he ofthe perfect leg, stood hy-waiting to kick another tldd goal hct<Jrc the intermission. 
"What watch'" Faust must have asked. "Two-twenty-eight watch," must have come the response. "Such watch," he must have marveled. before order­ing his team to run out the clock. 
Had I hcen on the sidelines then. I think I surely would have said to Faust. "if you don't at kast tl)' to go downficld and get a tit'id goal. you're going to regret it. 

Maybe not today, maybe not tomorrow, but by New 
Year's Day, and for the rest ofyour life." 
I think it was the Friday night show at which the hero 
was asked how he. came to be in Casablanca. "I came for 
the water," he said. 
"But Casablanca is in the middle of the desert," he 
was told. 

The reply was caustic. "I was misinformed." 
Apparently, Notre Dame coaches were misinformed 
as well. I guess somebody told them that their game 
plan the last few weeks has been terrific, and that they 
have just walked all over some powerful teams. 
Had they asked me, I think I surely would have said, like the fat gent at the Blue Parrot, "when are you going to learn, my dear coaches. that in today's college game, conservativism is no longer a practical policy'" 
Someone possesses the letters of transit. Somebody holds the key to unrestricted travel to a bowl game. The letters are signed by Rockne, Leahy and Parseghian. They should not have been revoked. They should not even have been questioned. It's time for somebody to reach into the .piano. pull the letters out. and use them. 
There are those who arc deep in despair. "We shall surely die here in Casablanca," they wail. 
It is not enough to say. "What ofit' I'm going to die in Casablanca. It's a good place for it." Something must be done. 
At the airport, Rick says to lisa, "we'll always have Paris. We didn't have, we lost it -until laM night." 
Well. the Notre Dame team is at the airport. too. They had the Michigan game. and they could have it back ­along with the glory that accompanied it. But it will take a Humphrey Bogart to pull it off Someone must put on the trench coat, shoot down the Nazi, and put thi~ team on the plane to victory. 
In this time of crisis, somebody mu~t stay cool. Despite the swirling winds of disaster. somebody must mastermind an escapt·. Someone must rt·turn to the tight. confident that. this time. his team will win. 
I!ere's looking at you. Coach. 



