
VOL. XVII, NO. 70 th~ ind~pendent student newspaper s~n ing notre Jame and saint mary's ' FRIDAY, DECEMBER 10, 1982 
River City Records 
O-wner adlllits to Who ticket fraud 
Reeves concludes democracy is improving 
By DIANE DIRKERS and MARK WORSCHEH 
SeniorStaffReporters 
The owner of River City Records admitted last night that he had planned to use tickets sold by unaut· horized "ticket brokers" as part of his Oct. 5 and Dec. 8 Who concert bus packages. 
The packages. offered for S49, each included a reserved seat for the performance in Chicago's Rosemont Horizon. round-trip bus transporta­tion from South Bend and refresh­ments. Peter Kernan. River City's proprietor, had sold 280 packages for the first show and 100 for the 
second. He cancelled both bus trips within two days of the scheduled concerts. 
KathyJohnson -a representative ofCot ntemporary Productions ofSt. Louis, the promoter of the Who's Chicago shows -said yesterday that Kernan "had no way at all to get that many tickets without getting any permission from us, and he never did.·· 
According to Johnson, tickets were sold on a mail-order basis only, with a six-ticket limit on any order. Blocks oftickets were distributed to some radio stations, hut only with the approval of Contemporary Productions, said Johnson. 
By MARGARET FOSMOE 
Saint Mary's Executiue Editor 
In 1831. Alexis de Tocqueville saw America as a successful democracy, troubled by racism, but getting better all the time. 
And in 1982, syndicated political columnist Richard Reeves sees America in much the same way. 
Reeves came to this conclusion in 19~9 after completing a modern version of de Tocqueville's famous nineteeth-centurv journey to study American democracy. De Toc­queville was a noted French political philosopher. 
Ket:ves, columnist. author, and writer for New Yorker magazine, reflected on his modern JOurney last night in a lecture in the Library Auditorium. 
Whtle prt:paring for the tour, Reeve" studied 14 notebooks .md numerous letters that de Toc­queville wrote while making his 9· month journey. Reeve~ said de Tocqueville is most famous for the hook ht: wrote about the trip, Democracy in Amenca, but the notebooks present the more descriptive impressions of de Toc­queville. 
Reeves took the same journey as de.: Tocqueville and put the same questions to the modern counter­parts of the Americans de Toe: queville questioned. 
Like de Tocqueville, Reeves concluded that "there is such·a thing as an 'American.' The characteristics and values are the same ones de Toc­queville saw ...Ther(" were no 'good old days."' 
De Tocqueville found the latest newspapers in homes on the American frontier, according to the columnist. In comp.t.·bon, Rcc.-cs found "Eskimos watching 60 Minutes, talking about Mike t Wallace) and Morley (Safer) ...then going back to their -IBM terminals." 
Reeves said that a traditional Sun­da} Catholic Mass in Alaska con­vinced him that "this is America." He found the same dress, language, spirit, and habits along his journey. 
Secondly, Reeves concluded that the U.S. is among the world's most stable societies and that American democracy is indeed working very well. 
"Democracy may not be doing what individuals want it to do, but the will of the major translates into life, liberty, and happiness" 
Reeves emphasized that com-
See REEVES, page 5 


Athletic department 
'willing to share' bill 
By ANNE MONAS1YRSKI 
Senior StaffReporter 
Although the Athletic Department said it will pay the bill for 
damages to the Transpo buses incurred after the Pitt game, the depart­
ment is "willing to share it (the bill) with the studentbody, according 
toJoe O'Brien, assistant director and business manager ofathletics. 
Father John Van Wolvlear, vice president of student affairs an­
nounced at last Tuesday's Hall President's Council meeting that 
O'Brien would pay the damages incurred by the students. 
Said O'Brien, "we've had a good long-term relationship with 
Transpo. When a bill comes. we're going to pay it." 
O'Brien said that he will wait for Student Body President Lloyd 
Burke to approach him on the matter ofsharing the cost. 
Burke stands bv the Student Senate's decision not to pay the bill 
because of the "ri~k" involved. He believes that ifthe student govern­
ment paid for the damages, the act would "set a precedent" holding 
student government accountable for any student action, regardless of 
who sponsored the event. 
See SENATE, page 4 
"Nobody legitimate" would be able to supply that many tickets to Kernan, she added, "It's a scam." 
After cancelling the Oct. 5 trip, Kernan offered his customers a choice ofeither a full refund or first priority to purchase bus trip packages for the Dec. 8 concert. 
Kevin Finger, a sophomore from St. Ed's, said that he still was waiting for a refund from Kernan for the Oc­tober trip. 
'Three of us got tickets together for the concert," he said. "When we went to get our refund, he said to wait, call hack later and then we'd have the money. He (Kernan) later gave us a check for S 14..., for all three tickets. 
"When we went to get it cashed, it bounced," Finger continued. "The bank said he had no money to cover it. 
"We still don't have any money from him and are seeking legal recourse," he said. 
Kernan replied that he thought most people already had received and cashed their refund checks. "It's not my fault that several hit the bank after the account was closed," he said. 
Others who received refund checks found that they only could he cashed at St. joseph's Bank, where River City holds its account. Accord­ing to Pat Toole, a junior from Stan­ford Hall, "Kernan gave us a check which we had to take to his bank and have the president OK it." 
See WHO, page 6 


Canadian strikers 

Chrysler reaches tentativepact 
HIGHLAND PARK Mich. (AP)­The Chrysler Corp. and the auto workers' union reached tentative agreement yesterday on an im­mediate wage increase that paves the way for an end to a t1ve-week-old Canadian strike and the signing of a new contract for U.S. workers. 
United Auto Workers Union Presi­dent Dougias A. Fraser said at a news conference that he was optomistic that the 85,000 U.S. Chrysler workers would accept the new offer. 
"The Chrysler (bargaining) com­mittee voted unanimously to recom­mend the terms of a new economic agreement to the members," Fraser said. 
''I'm glad it's over," added Thomas Miner, Chrysler vice president ofin­dustrial relations. 
Neither side would detail terms of the agreement, although Fraser said there is a "big difference" between the U.S. and Canadian pacts. 
Agreement on the Canadian terms had been announced yesterday morning in Toronto, and top negotiators immediately tlew back to Detroit to complete the U.S. talks. 
UAW bargainers also had refused to reveal the size ofthe Canadian pay raise, but earlier this week they had rejected 30 cents an hour, saying the rank and file demanded at least S 1 an hour. 
The raise, negotiated in talks that began Nov. 22, was "substantial," said Ken Gerard, president of the Canadian UAW bargaining commit­tee. "We're happy to see that the company came here with the amount of money that we were looking for. I'm sure the member­ship will ratify it without any problem." 
U.S. workers wanted at least a 50 cent an hour boost, local union offi­cals said. 
Ratification voting for the 10,000 Canadian Chrysler workers was tentatively scheduled for Saturday and Sunday and the striking Canadian auto workers should be able to return to work Monday, Robert White, director of the Canadian UAW said at a Toronto news conference. 
Fraser said U.S. local unir·n offi­
cials would decide when to hold 
ratification votes. 
"We don't have to hurry," he 
added. 
About 4,600 U.S. Chrysler workers were laid off because of parts shortages from the Canadian strike, and they probably will return two or three days after Canadian plants resume operation, Miner said. 
The two sides planned to con­tinue bargaining late yesterday and meet again today to finish up any loose ends, officials said. 
The last push at Chrysler head­quarters in Highland Park began a few hours after UAW and Chrysler officials in Toronto announced agreement on economic terms for a Canadian pact. 
Fraser, who along with Miner had tlown to Toronto on Wednesday, said yesterday morning he felt the Canadian economic terms would be "a basis" for a U.S. accord. 
'They just have lO find the money to make the l"nited States' adapta­tion to thi~ (Canadian) agreement," Fraser said. 
"It's been a very difficult set of negotiations and the economic settlement satisfies us," said White. 
"We are pleased to have arrived at an agreement ... which will end this long and costly strike by our Canadian employees," Miner said. "I think it will become readily ap­parent that the parties have used some ingenuity." 
Canadian workers walked out Nov. 5 when Chrysler said it could not afford to give them an im­mediate raise. U.S. workders ­43,200 on the payroll and 42,200 on indefinite layoff-had demanded an immediate wage increase but voted against a strike and in favor ofresum­ing talks later. 
The latest roun t d oftalks begin­ning Nov. 22 was designed to reach agreements simultaneously in the 
U.S. and Canada. 
Earlier U.S. talks snagged over the pay raise issue Oct. 18 and negotia­tions broke off. Canadian talks had ended Nov. 5. 
Chrysler Chairman Lee Iacocca said last week that Canadian workers must be back on the job by Monday or Chrysler would recess talks in Canada and the United States until January. He said it would not be worthwhile to resume Canadian production briefly before the tradi­tional weeklong Christmas shut­
down, when workers look forward to six paid days off. 


--~------­
n . ~ 
Friday, December 10, 1982 -page 2



ews Lirtets
J. 
Ry The Obsen,er and The Associate,: ,0:-~5S I 
No suspects have been apprehended in the case of an 
anempted rape of a Notre Dame woman Sunday, Nov. 21. South 
Bend police report that the investigation is continuing. At about 1 :30 
a.m., the student was forced into a man's car after he asked her for 
directions along U.S. 31 near St. Joseph High School. The student 
escaped with injuries of her shoulder. arm and hip after escaping 
from the car in Roseland. -The Observer. 
The Notre Datne Department of Music will present Deborah McComas in a Graduate Degree Organ Recital Sunday, at 
8:1 5 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. McComas will perform works by Jean Guilain, Olivier Messiaien,).S. Bach, and Louis Vierne. The reci­tal is free and open to the public. -The Observer 
Two Jazz Big Bands and one combo will be presented in concert by the Notre Dame Department of Music at 8 
p.m. in Washington Hall. Music by Miles Davis, Duke Ellington, Count Basie, Sammy Nestico. and many others will be performed. Father George Wiskirchen will direct the "Monday Night Jazz Band" and Graduate Assistant Marshall Scott will direct the "Tuesday Night 
Jazz Band." The Concert is free and open to the pubic. -The Ob­server 
Leon Jaworski, former special prosecutor for the Watergate burglary incident and former Texas lawyer, died yester­day afternoon of an apparent heart attack while chopping wood at his "Circle]" Ranch in Wimberley, Texas. He was 77. Jaworski en­tered into national prominence when he was selected to be special Watergate prosecutor in October of 1973, replacing Archibald Cox at the request ofAxexander Haig. OnJuly 24, 1974,Jaworski played a key role in ordering President Richard M. Nixon to surrender the White House tape recordings, an event considered to be the apex of his career. Sixteen days later, Nixon resigned the presidency. While being a veteran lawyer in Texas before the Watergate investigation, Jaworski never returned to the courtroom after the Watergate. Jaworski was born on Waco, Texas in 1905. He became the youngest lawyer ever licensed in the state at age 20. Jaworski served as a prosecutor in the Nuremburg Trials after World War II, and also served as counsel to the Warren Commission's investigation into the assassination of Presdent John F. Kennedy. -AP 
A large hippopotamus statue surprised residents of Muskegon, Mich., when it appeared in the spot usually taken by a large bull statue. Sometime early Wednesday, pranksters abducted 
the life-size fiberglass Angus bull statue that stood watch outside the 
Black Angus Restaurant. "Apparently, someone got in (our) building 
with a key and switched our hippo for the Black Angus' Bull," said Bob Sikkenga, president of a design company that owns the hippo. "The hippo is frequently used in parades all over the country and it comes and goes so often that I frequently don't know where it is." Authorities said the restaurant's bull often is snatched by teen-agers as a prank. But Wednesday was the first time in memory that the figure has been upstaged by competing wildlife. -AP 
Good grades in schoolare being rewarded at two video game arcades in Alpena, Mich. by promoters who have given away S1 ,500 in tokens to young scholars in a week. School officials seem resigned to the plan. "We want to encourage the kids with good grades to come in," Betty Ruczynski, operator with her hus­band Jerry ofTWI Big Operation arcades, said this week. "They are the ones who don't make trouble, and we like to have them in here." Students can bring in report cards and get five 25-cent tokens for every A and two tokens for every B. No rewards are given for lower grades. High school and junior high students must present school identification cards along with report cards. Elementary students, who don't have the cards, must bring a parent. "We like to encourage parents to visit," said Mrs. Ruczynski, "so they can see it's a nice place for their kids to be." Alpena High School Principal David Clink said he appreciates "anyone in the business community recognizing good grades in a special way. I'm ambivalent about video game arcades because of the amount of money the children spend there, but I suppose it's better than spending it on cigarenes." "Encouragement and praise are more effective" than video game tokens in motivating students toward "sustained efforts" for better grades, said Joseph Mischley, principal ofThunder Bay Junior High. 
-AP 
Considerable cloudiness and warmer today, 
with a chance of snow, high in mid-thirties. Low tonight of 22 degrees. Chance oflight snow tomorrow, continued cold, high of28 'i}. degrees.­

Ah, Christmas 
Ah, Christmas. 

I love Christmas. This time of year always brings vi­sions of silting in front of the tlreplace at home, curled up with a nice,· sweet girl. A bottle of wine sits on the table close w us, and we are very quiet as we sit and watch the Christmas lights burn on the tree. The smell of pine fllls the room and Johnny Mathis sets the mood by gently singing "Chestnuts Roasting on an Open Fire." Outside, the snow lightly falls, covenng the ground with yet another layer of lluffy snow. The evening would be perfect if we could just hear the prancing of little hooves on the roofabove. 
Somehow, things aren't exactly the same this year. 
Christmas doesn't bring the same feelings of happiness 
and contentment. This year I sit under a high-intensity 
lamp. curled up with Hans Kung text. A now-warm 
bottle ofMountain Dew sits on the table next to me; the 
mood set by two of my roommates arguing over the 
name of a long-canceled television series. From next door, the gentle sounds ofVan Hal en softly drift into the room. We don't have a tlreplace, and even ifwe did, we couldn't burn our chestnuts over it because the Univer­sitv made us install a smoke alarm last month. Outside, it ha~ finally gotten a little cold, but the ground is still muddy from the previous 
week's rain. The only littlt: Wait now don't get mad; hooves I hear above me are it really isn't that bad an idea. from the guys that live We would come back to upstairs as they dance to the South Bend a week earlier, latest new wave tune. when the weather is normal­
Spending Christmas with ly pretty nice, and we would the family at home is always leave a week earlier, giving such a special occasion. l us all time to get ready for don't really know what it is; Christmas Day. it is just a feeling of close­Just think of the bargain ness to the people around you could get on that me. Christmas is a time for nightgown with nearly two relaxation; all the world's weeks to shop for it instead problems seem to lessen in of two days. the spirit of Christmas. In the meantime, I guess During this time of year, we'll just have to do the best one's biggest worry should we can. If we <:an't go home be to wonder if he got the for the Christmas season, I very best deal he could on guess we'll just have to bring that quilted nightgown Aunt the Christmas season to 

Jane wanted so badly. 
This year, things are not like that at all. lt doesn't seem 
like Christmas is almost here. In fact, if it wasn't tor the 
signs hanging from Cavanaugh and Zahm and the way 
the towers light up at night with the glow of hundreds 
of tiny colored bulbs, I'd swear it was two weeks before 
Thanksgiving. 

That feeling ofcontentment from not having a care in the world seems years away as we prepare for this semester's battle with final exams. Last-minute cram­ming to catch up on classwork, not to mention studying for next week's tlnals, has taken the place of any pos­sible thoughts on where to get the best deal on Aunt Jane's nightgown. She may just have to settle for a genuine bookstore-bought picture ofthe good ol' Gold­en Dome. 
When one thinks about things like these, one begins tq wonder what in the world we are doing here until the 22nd ofDecember anyway. The logic ofthis idea eludes me. There really seems to be no logical reason to keep 9,000 people here until three days before Christmas. It 
The Observer 

Live for God and Hi~s People as a •••
Design Editor.... ............ R&R Rabhit 
Design Assislcml . ..... Reggie( AP Gopher) 
Daniel 
Tom( 'been a gn·at semester) Small La)•oul Staff. . . ..... Hired Hand; 1)pesetters . ....... Mark MiottoJ"''PEsetter 
Reggie again 
News Editor. ..... Vic( much to he thankful 
for) Sciulli Copy Editor.. Greg( quick finish) Swiercz Features Layout.. Tari( I'm done!) Brown Editorials La)'out Paul & Ken -together 
again Sports Copy Editor .... :'<like( no thoughts) 
Riccardi Typist........ Tari's & Tom's Helping Hands At/ Design ............ Bob( so many ads) Slota 
Photographer.... "~imi's Cannon" Bower 
Guest Appearances ...... Mutual Abuse, As­
sorted Real l'eople, Lzate paper Dzave, 
Fosimoto, Ry of Nocerous, john Sparks 
from WNDL' ( molto grazie ), Lisa & 
D'niser, Kathy 
"Am/to all a gomlnigbl!" 
The Observer !USPS 598 9201 ~~ published Monday through Fnday and. on horne football Saturd.l Y' except dunng exam and vacatton penod~ The Observer IS publiShed by the sludents of Notre Da<ne ana Satnt Marys Col 

Father John Holly, OFM C8J)Uehln, 1820 Mt. Elli<'tt Avenue, 
lege Subscnpttons <nay oe purchased tor $25 per year 1 S 1 5 per serne~ler 1by 
DetrOit, Ml 48207 
wnl!ng The Observer P 0 Bux 0 

Yes, aeno me information about ttle Clpuchln way of life. 
Notre Da<ne lnd1ana 46556 

Name· Age ____
The Observer IS a rnernber of The Associated Press All reproduclton COIIleQie -~------Address 
• Capuchin 
~~·what? 
Capuchin Franciscans are a reigious fraternity of men trying to live the Gospel in ,. • • the Spirit of Francis of Assisi in today's 
world. 
Join. us in promoting peace, education, and justice---in ghettoes... in jails... in soup kitchens... in parishes ... in haijway houses... on radio and 1V, 
Join us in working with and for the advancement of blacks, whites, Hispanics, native Americans and people of the Third World in Central America. 
Check out whether being a Capuchin,. committed to living for God and his people, in the spirit of Francis, is for you. No obligation. Write today for more information. 
........................ Clip and Mall T·Ddayl ............,...-...­
Mike Wilkins Assistant News Editor 
Inside Friday
-
seems that nothing but problems can develop from run­
ning the semester so close to Christmas Day. 
First of all, even the lucky students who manage to 
return home a few days before the rest ofus are having a 
hard time studying for finals. No matter how much 
work students are faced with, visions of sugar plumbs 
can not be far off. Also, with the unpredictability of 
South Bend's weather, chances are that when that hap­
py day comes when we can all leave to join our familie!>. 
Lake Michigan will turn on us and hit us with the first 
major storm of the year. Anybody for Christmas Eve at 
Michiana Regional? 
The answer to this problem is to end the semester a week earlier. No, that doesn't mean Emil will only have time to give 11 quizzes. ·we'd simply start the ~emester 
a week earlier. 
campus. The tree in the window and the mistletoe han­ging from the loft (though it never seems to work) are simple ways ofmaking the best ofthe situation, and they do make Christmas seem closer, despite the fact that it is at least four finals away. 
But the real way of bringing the Christmas season to campus is to usher in the spirit of Christmas. This is truly a joyous time of year, no matter how hard your professors try to make you believe otherwise. To keep Christmas the special time of year that it is, and to prepare yourself for the Christmas season at home, spread a little Christmas cheer around campus. Take a special trip to the grotto to remember what Christmas is really all about, or wish someone a Merry Christmas, even if it is your professor who gives you that last final exam. And if you're really daring, prove to those poor 
• mistletoe buyers around campus that those silly things 
really work. By the way, Merry• Christmas. 

'h~~~~~~~;j,1.~~~~~~~~~liJ~~~~~'fl~~~~~.:;:~:MJ.~;~r:~~:~~:~~Jrt~~~~i8.a'.~,~~-~~f~~J'kf~*;J~~~~i:i;l.~i~~ State~ -------·Zip·· 


-------~~--------~-~------­

The Observer Friday, December 10, 1982-page 3 
Strip search 
Out-of-court settlefllen t reached 
By MARY ANN POTfER Only one woman involved in the Amendments anti federal law had StaffReporter strip search did not join in tiling the been violated. 
suit. The Saint Mary·~ women, then A federal court suit tlletl against The settlement was the second aged 19 and 20. were arrested for the city of South Bend after the ar­settlement proposal made by the underage drinking at Corby's Tavern 
rest and strip search of eight Saint city to the women and their attor­on jan. 30. 191:1 I. They were taken to :vlary's women in I9H I was dropped ney, Michael Cotter. The t1rst offer the South Bend city jail where they as a result of an out-of-court settle­was refused. 
were booked on the misdemeanor ment made recently. The original suit asked for charge of underage drinking and 
Each of the seven women named S10,000 in compensatory damages were strip searched by a woman ot~ in the suit were awarded S2,500 in for each student and more than tker. compensatory damages. In addition, S10,000 in punitive damages, legal The strip search was apparently 
S2,500 was allocated for the pay­fees and court costs. The suit stated the resuit of a misunderstanding at ment oflegal fees and about S700 for that the women's rights under the the jail. "She (the woman officer) court costs. Fourth, Fifth and Fourteenth had just come from a prison where it (the Mrip search) was standard pro­cedure and she just assumed that it was here," said Mary :'\1uldoon, one of the women involved in the inci­

Warner video-game 
dent. The officer was supposed to give them a weapon "pat down," she said.

stocks slumping 
An investigation and full report of 
the incident was made to the Board 
NEW YORK (AP)-Warner Com­appeared w spreall to some stocks of Public Safety prior to the law suit. 
munications Inc. is replacing a top closely identit1cd with the personal­"This was done because the inci­
oftkial after announcing slumping computer business. Commodore In­dent happened, not because of the 
sales ofits Atari products anti setting ternational Ltd. fell S9.125 to litigation," said City Attorney 
off a broad decline in video-game 574.75; Tandy Corp. dropped S3.25 Richard L. Hill, who was involved in 
and home-computer stock prices. to 556.50, and Texas Instruments investigating the case. 
Perry Odak, president of the con­Inc. dropped 55.375 to S 146. Hill said the Board has since 
sumer products division of Atari International Business Machines "identified areas of training" for new 
Inc., has been relieved of all duties Corp., which traded at record highs recruits in the police department so 
but remains on the payroll, Warner, early in the day, settled back to that the same incident doesn't occur 
the parent company of Atari, an­594.50, down 62.5 cents. In the again. 
nounced Wednesday. over-the-counter market, Apple "I do feel that appropriate 
Earlier in the day, the company Computer Inc. was quoted at 

remedial action was taken prior to said earnings in the tina! three 533.125, down 75 cents. the suit " Hill said. An apology was months of this year and for all of Warner, whose-Atari video-game extended to the individuals after the 
191:12 would be substantially lower operations had been a fast-growing incident, he added. 
than anticipated. pofit maker in recent years, said The women filed the lawsuit be­Warner's announcement on its fourth-quarter earnings would be 60 
cause they felt the strip search reduced profit projection crossed cents to 65 cents a share, compared "wasn't right." financial news wires shortly after the with S1, 1 7 a share in the same "They shouldn't have invaded our final hour of trading began Wednes­period last year. 
privacy like that," said Muldoon. "I day. Trading in the company's stock The company cited disappointing think by the time we did settle our was halted shortly thereafter on the sales of Atari game cartridges and statement, our message had been New York Stock Exchange at S51. 5 a substantially lower sales of Atari 
heard. They realized we were up­share, down S1.875 from Tuesday. coin-operated games. The fourth­set." Shortly afterward, Jefferies & Co., quarter results also are being hurt by The misdemeanor charges against a block trading house, said it a one-time charge for the disposition the students were dropped in spring handled several trades totaling up­ofsignificant portions ofits Knicker­of 1981 when they each agreed to wards of 1 million Warner shares at bocker Toy Co. holdings, the com­perform ten hours of community S40 in the over-the-counter market, pany said. service. indicating a decline from Tuesday of S13.625. 
r•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••··~ 
Reports of Odak's removal from office came after stock exchanges 
t THE ALTERNATIVE : 
closed Wednesday. 
: The under 21 club invites :
Among other leaders in the video­game market, Coleco Industries Inc. 
• All Notre Dame Students •
fell $5.875 Wednesday to S38. I 25 
and Mattei Inc. dropped S2.125 to : to party with : 
$24. • APEX •
Pressure on the video-game issues t music q.J (AN N.D. Band) • 
•• Small Cov•r Charg• on Dec. 1 0 & 11 3318 ffiishawaka Av•. : 
Soulh B•nd,IN •

t (2 blocks w•sl of Logan Sl.) 
smerd 
by 
•..................................•
Ted Ozark 

Commander Cadet Major Rico Bartolomei views theArmyROTC Irish Marauder drill team which performedyesterday afternoon in Stepan Center. (Photo by Scott Bower) 
Attention All Juniots: 

If your parents have not received the 
---------------------I
1 JU_NIOR PARENT'S WEEKEND I information packet I
L-------------------1
please call 2773 


rn®~~®~ rn-w~ • corro:Bll~~xxcn~ 
SIGN UP MONDAY 7 pm LAFORTUNE 
Non-refundable $50 deposit due­total $110 would be better. Bus leaves the 22nd incl. refreshment and comfort after finals. Questions-Mike 277-3276 
I I I I I I I I 


I 
I 
I 


I 
I 

.........?!~~!..4.99 .. ?!~ ~! .. 7.99 
I 

........?!~ .,.. 9.99 
I

......?!~ "' 15.99 .. ~!~"'-8.99 
I

December 12-18 ··'"'' .8.99 . . . . . .... ?!~ "'. 8.99 
I
National Drunk and Drugged 

........?!~~! .8.99 Driving Awareness Week .........?!~~, .9.99 I 
DARE TO CARE 
I

DON'T LET A FRIEND DRIVE 
I 
DRUNK OR DRUGGED 
I 
SADD 
I
-


-----~---~---~-------~ 
The Observer Friday, December 10, 1982 -page 4 


··gQowe~ fpn aQQ occagLo~g ~~ 
Come in and Browse 
327lincolnway 232-3354 
Just when you thought
you had to walk home ... 


Washington. DC Club Christmas Bus Sign-ups 
Sunday, Dec. 12 7 • 8 pm LaFortune A $70·00 Rou·nd-trip· ~~ you must pay to reserve a seat! 
Clip this coupon for savings on fun at



·-------~-----.. 
l~lR~~fll 
~----------------~ 
7 GAMEROOM TOKENS 
(regularly .25 ea.) 
40 GAMEROOM TOKENS 
offer expires 12/31/ 82  
1"ru• I  J •  Jo~st Qox Robotron  Donkey Kong Zaxxon Frogger  Ms. Pac-Man Tron Tempest  Moon Patrol Dig Dug Centipede  

.................. Putt-Putt Golf &Games ........... .. 259·4171 3615 N. Main Mishawaka 
(lake Angela to Edison, 2 miles to Main 
Responds well I 
Heart patient begins seccJnd wreek 
SALT LAKE CITY (AP)-Barney heart. nutrients through a stomach tube in 
B. Clark today began his second Still on a respirator, Clark is "two­an attempt to balance his body week oflife sustained by an artificial thirds of the way out of this last" chemistry. heart that has "worked beautifully," complication, able ro respond to with doctors hopeful he may soon words and to "point and raise his "What we want to do is give him a leave the critical list after treatment arms and legs," Peterson said. range of foods and salts from which for seizures. Doctors were giving Clark a thin, he will pick up what he needs," 
Clark has been responding well to "semi-digested" gruel of natural Peterson said. diet and medication aimed at correcting a chemical imbalance blamed for a series of seizures early 
Sealy resutnes tale _
Tuesday, said Dr. Chase Peterson, vice president of health science for 
the University of Utah. 
The 61-year-old retired dentist 



of infant death today 
can be moved off the critical list in a CHARLOTTE, Mich. (AP)-Ken-the baby in his Delta Township
day or two if no more complications apartment 1 1 days before her deathneth Sealy will continue the somberdevelop, Peterson said Wednesday. 
March 11. Except for a yellowishtale ofhis infant daughter's death for"Dr. Clark is not now primarily an color that was disappearing, he said,an Eaton County jury today as heartificial heart patient. He is simply a the infant had little trouble breath­defends himself against charges heseriously ill post-operative surgical ing, eating (')r moving until the daycaused her to die.
patient," Peterson said. "The pump, before her death. 
in all cases, has worked beautifully. "My child was improving," the 23­
Even though the child had It hasn't missed a beat. It's been an year-old surburban Lansing man told stopped breathing once, repeatedly
assist." a circuit court jury Wednesday as he 
had apparent seizures and was 
But Peterson said doctors are still took the witness stand in his own 
expelling a dark substance from hercautious. "He's had a number of defense. 
nose or mouth, Saly said, he did not
complications and could have beleve the baby was in serious dan­Prosecutors accuse him of "grossmore," he said. 
ger.
negligence" and have charged SealyClark was near death from an in­However, early on March 11, thewith involuntary manslaughter foroperable degenerative heart disease baby stopped breathing again andfailing to provide adequate medicalDec. 2 when his heart was replaced 
with a polyurethane device powered by compressed air -the world's first permanent artificial  care for his child because of his religious beliefs. Sealy testified that he delivered  this time could not be revived. "She just stopped breathing," a sobbing Sealy said. He said he and others tried to bring her back ro life  
but failed.  
"I held onto my baby for awhile. I  
... Senate  fell asleep with her on my chest," he told the jury. About 10 hours late, he  
took her under his sweater into  a  
Sheriffs Department station.  
continuedfrom page 1  St:aly and his wife Bonnie  -who  
Student government "didn't tell the students to welcome the team,"  goes on trial Jan. 3  -face up to 15  
Burke said, indicating that student government did not sponsor the  years in prison ifconvicted.  
event that brought about the bus damages. The Athletic Department  The infant's ceath was attributed  
sponsored the event, because it released the time ofthe buses' return,  to dehydration and pneumonia, and  
according to Burke. Because of this, he believes that the Athletic  she  also  suffered  from  jaundice.  
Department is responsible for the bill.  Doctors  have  testified all  the  ail­ 
Burke emphasized that he did not want to make an issue of the  ments  were  treatable  and  she  
money involved, but added "it's not like we (student government)  probably could have been saved if  
have extra money floating around. The University has the surplus  medical care had been obtained up  
income."  to the day before her death.  
Burke began a "Save the Buses" campaign asking for every student  Although six adults were present  
to contribute twelve cents in order to pay the bilL The campaign was  in the apartment in the hours before  
Burke's response to a suggestion by Dean of Students James Roemer  Cari's death, no one called a doctor,  
that Burke show more leadership concerning the issue. The twelve  hospital  or  ambulance,  which  all  
dollars collected to date will be donated to the Logan Center. Burke  were  minutes away, relatives have  
said students can collect their twelve cents if they prefer a refund.  testified.  
Though Burke does not plan on taking any further action regarding  Sealy  testified  that  Cari  "was  
payment of the bill, he said that he "intends to talk to O'Brien to clear  breathing fine" several hours before  
up any bad feelings."  death, although his wife told him she  


had had to revive the infant while he was at work earlier. "!. didn't know what was happen­ing to her." Sealy said. He said he ad­
ministered mouth-to-mouth resuscitation several times "to give
The Best in 
her kind ofa boost" in breathing, as a 
Aged Steaks 
"precautionary measure." _ 
120N. Main Street Earlier, just bd(Jre resting his Downtown, Mishawaka case, Assistant Prosecutor :\1ichael Hocking read an interview with Sea­
255-7737 
ly condcted by a Sheriffs Depart­ment detective, in which he discussed his religious beliefs. 
"I don't go to doctors personally," 
Sealy told the oftlcer. 'Tm respon­
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
sible to a higher authority." Sealy+ The Notre Dame Student Union presents: + 
said he was a member of an
The Notre Dame Student Union 
"as~embly" of about I00 people
: Ballroom Dance: 
who held similar religious views, but 
+ in the Chautauqua Ballroom + presents a 
which does not have an ofikial 
+ Friday Dec. 10 : name. 
: e 8:30-9:30 Dan O'Day Dance + ".1 am seeking a physician or doc­tor when I am seeking the Lord. If
: Studio gives Lessons : Grace Kelly 
God can't help her, no man can," he said.
+ • • D +
+ 9:30-12:30 Sem1-Formal ance+ "l didn't know she was deathly ill

Film Festival
•$ per couple : until she died," he said of the baby.:$2 each Tickets on sale at the Student Union+ The trial is scheduled to resume 
today after a day offyesterday.
~•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••4 Sunday Dec. 12­Thursday Dec. 16 
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• G;;v;iAi~o;t F;e~ 1 : Celebrate Christmas at the Nazz : t Going home on Break? f
Dec. 12-"DIAL" : . Saturday, Dec.ll q.JQ-? : t we have vehicles going to t
Dec. 13-"COUNTRY GIRL"
• Featunng: • · • t several points across the U.S.t 
: · * matt Feeney * Betsy Quinn : Dec. 14-"14 HOURS" ' Call WILSON DRIVEAWAY , 
' Bristol,lndiana '
Dec. 15-"TO CATCH A THIEF" 
t 674-6794 t
:•* Bob O'Donnell *John Foryt 'fit: Dec. 16-"HIGH SOCIE fY" : * Greg Sobkowski : ••·•<~••·•••AIIshowsB pm•••••••••
.. : 
Engineering Auditorium-$1.00
:.Hot chocolate and Cookies w_ill be provided•
.................................. 

----------~---~------~--~----------------------------~-------------------------~----------­

1'0:\TIAC. :\1ich. (AP) -Former Team~ter~ President James R.· Hoffa can he legally pre~umed dead. more than !>even years after he vanished from the parking lot of a suhuran lktroit reMaurant, under a judge's ruling. 
Oakland County Probate Judge 
:"'orman Barnard said Wednesday 
that Hoffa's "presumptive date of 
death" was July 30. 19H2, seven 
year~ to the day after he disap­
peared. 
At the time of his disappearance, Hoffa reportedly was planning a hid to regain the presidency of the na­tion's largest labor union following his release from prison. FBI agents have said in court papers they believe he was the victim of an ex­
ecution by organized crime t1gures. 
Hoffa, convicted of jury tamper­ing and mail fraud in 1964, went to the federal prison in Lewisburg, Penn.. in March of 1967. He was sen­tenced to 13 years but was pardoned by then-President Richard Nixon in December of 1971 with the restric­tion that he not participate in Teamsters Union activities until 1980. 
Barnard's ruling was in response to a petition filed by James P. Hoffa, 41, the labor leader's son. Barnard named the younger Hoffa and his sis­ter, Barbara Ann Crancer, heirs to Hoffa's estimated JI million estate and named the younger Hoffa per­sonal repesentative of his father's estate. 
The elder Hoffa's wife, Josephine, died in 1980. No will from Hoffa was found. 
The younger Hoffa testified to three specific criteria that are re­quired under state law before a per­son can be presumed dead, Oakland County Probate Register William Travis said. 
The criteria are that Hoffa be ab­sent from his last place of residence for seven years, that his whereabouts be unknown for seven years by people who were likely to know them, and that Hoffa did not communicate during that period with people he was most likely to communicate with, Travis said. 
In another three years, Hoffa, who 
"conclusively presumed dead" for 
The Observer Ex-teamster boss 

Judge says Hoffa 'legally dead' 
the purpose~ of st·ttling his e~tate. 
The younger Hoffa petitioned the court in July for a pre~umr,tion of death. and a notil:e was published once a month for four months to notify anyone who may have claims to the estate. None has been made. 
The FBI continues to investigate Hoffa's disappearance. FBI spokes­manjohn Anthony said Wednesday. 
• • • Reeves 
continuedfrom page 1 
plaints must be taken in stride. "Not many people are trying to leave this country and many more are trying to get in," he said. 
Reeves, like de Tocqueville. found racism to be the greatest problem facing America. Racism in de Toc­queville's day, however. was directed toward the American In­dians, according to Reeves, while minorities are the victims today. 
While traveling through Detroit on his journey, Reeves began to see the inner city as "a foreign country, with an underground economy and laws." He characterized social workers as diplomats and the main export as crime. 
Reeves sees liquors and drugs used as pacifiers in these areas, but he views the American Dream is the greatest pacifier. The minorities "believe the words and ideas," said Reeves and "import" hope. 
Reeves remains hopeful about the possibilities of dealing with racism. "Being American is believing we can be better as a people than we see ourselves," he said. 
Democracy is getting better Reeves concluded from his journey. 
America, however. is moving toward "mass" democracy. Americans have learned that "representative government couldn't deal with the problems ...We don't go . to politicians, we go to the courts." 
One man Reeves encountered on his trip concluded that that this trend in American democracy is not wholly bad. "The people are happy," quoted Reeves, "if there were one demigogue, we'd be in trouble. But there are so many, they cancel each other out." 
Reeves views modern America as being democracized by electronic communication. "Leaders are losing the ability to control communica­tion," he said," ...we (the public) get the information at the same time as the president_" 
Reeves is the author of a number of books, including A Ford, Not A Lincoln, Old Faces of 1976, Con­vention, andjetlag. He also hosted the NBC television show "Sunday" from 1973 to 1977. 
Reeves re-enactment of de Toc­queville's journey is the basis of a television program he is working on for Public Broadcasting. The show will be aired in the spring. 
~~~~~~~~COUPON~~~~~~~~ 
"FINALS" SPECIAL 
Opentill 1:30a.m _every night until Dec. 20th 

0 z 272-8030 
18061 So Bend Ave. 112 Block West of
Ironwood on SR 23
vlP1zz,,R PIEROGE SANDWICHES P•I.Z.ZQ _ fl6.97 Cheese pizza -additioral irgredients .96'17 '/1 -prices do rot irclude tax 
~--------~----COUPON.-.-.-.-.-.-.-~ 
Friday, December 10, 1982 -page 5 

jim Webster and his wife pause to inspect the rubble strewn around their home in theflood-stricken river town ofTimes Beach, Mo. Ci~)' officials say the town was virtualZv destroyed by the flooding Meramec River. Several years ago, residents ofthe town bad voted not to participate in the federal flood insurance program. (APPhoto) 

Attn. Mary Riedle 


tlfl4 source
FOR MORE 
Box1602 
100 North Michigan St. South Bend, Indiana 46634 

..:Travel

INFO CALL: 




WOMAN'S SPIRITUALITY 
JAN. 28-30 RETREAT 
WITH TERESA GODWIN PHELPS AND MARY ANN ROEMER 
FOR: Graduate Students, Staff $8.00 fee, Friday Euening to Sunday noon at a Lake Michigan cabin. Sign up at Campus Ministry -Badin Office 
liMITED REGISTRATION 
au 
~ 


----~-~-----~-------~-~­
-~---~-~~----~--~ ~-------~-------~---~-------~~--~---­
.. -----,----------~-~----~~----­The Observer Friday, December 10, 1982 -page 6 
Jo0d behavior 


Michigan eyes prisoners' law-s 

LAl":O.ll'<l•, .vtiCh. ( AP) -Time off from prison for good behavior ­eliminated for many criminals by state voters in 1978 -would be available again to all inmates under two bills that cleared the state House yesterday. 
Under the legislation, which now goes to the Senate, inmates not now eligible for "good time" credit could get up to a week lopped oiHheir sen­tences for each month of good con­duct behind hars. 
When voter~ passed Proposal B in 1978, they barred "good time" for inmates convicted of assaultive ccimes and most crimes against property. 
All inmates previously were eligible for up to 22 days offfor each month ofgood behavior. 

The proposed scaled-down sys· tern of "disciplinary credits" is meant to encourage good conduct among the most difficult inmates in Michigan prisons by giving them an incentive to behave. 
The bills, sponsored by Rep. Alan Cropsey, R-DeWitt, cleared the House on votes of-90-10 and 86-13 without debate. 
A three-fourths vote of the House, or H3 votes, was needed to pass each bill since they would amend legisla­tion by the voters. 
The new system is supported by the state Department of Correc­tions, Michigan sheriffs and police 
LITE BEER IS LIKE AQUARTERBACK. WE CAN'T WAIT TO KNOCK ONE DOWN. 
BubbaSm1th and Dick Butkus 
~ j 
chiefs, and state prison guards who hope it will help maintain order in the penal system. 
In addition, the Michigan Prison Overcrowding Project estimated the legislation could save the state up to s 196 million in future costs by hdping to control the population of the state corrections system. 
Oakland County Prosecutor L Brooks Patterson, who led the peti­tion drive that placed Proposal B on the 1978 state ballot. blasted it as an anempt to get around the will of the 
people~ 

l;nder the new plan, inmates denied "good time" could automati­cally earn five days of "disciplinary credit" for each month in which they committed no major miscon­duct. 
They could win another two days of credit for any month in which ther behavior was especially good. 

House Corrections Committee Chairman Jeffrey Padden. D­Wyandotte, who helped guide the bills to passage, admitted they face an uphill battle in the state Senate, since little time remains before the lame-duck legislature adjourns. 
Supporters ofthe legislation main­
tain that voters were misguided into 
believing that passage of Proposal B 
would reduce crime by barring ex­
cessive leniency for felons. 
_ The Michigan crime rate in 1978 
compared with 67.7 per 1,000 
people in 1981, according to a 
House analysis. 
• • .Who 

continuedfrompage 1 
The Notre Dame Credit Union would not cash any of River City's checks. 
Kernan had told The Observer Monday that he had reserved three buses from Indiana Motor Bus Co., but a representative for the com­pany said that no reservations were made. Last night, Kernan claimed he had spoken with a dispatcher for the company two to three weeks before the Dec. 8 concert, informing him that he may need buses, but ad­mitted that no formal reservations had been made. 
"In practice, I had the ability to get the buses even as late as the day ofthe trip," Kernan said. 
Kernan cancelled the first trip af­ter his ticket source hacked out ofan alleged verbal contract. He blamed the upcoming video telecast of a Who concert in Stepan Center for a rash of cancellations of the Dec. 8 package. He said that only 35 people remained committed to the trip. 
Kernan said that if he could not put together a bus package for the Dec. 8 concert, he did not want to sell the tickets at a scalper's markup. 
Though he said he was purchasing tickets at inflated prices from a Chicago ticket broker, he com­mented, "I was not interested in sell· ing tickt;ts to customers over the counter. I chose not to handle tick­ets in that fashion," he said, claiming it would be "unethicaj." 
Kernan said he wanted to "keep his options open," and therefore, did not cancel the trip until Monday. '·Even when money is tight, a lot of business can be obtained right before the show." However, the last advertising that Kernan could recall placing was on radio station WAOR during the week of Thanksgiving, two weeks before the concert. 
"Why keep dumping money into 
the thing?" Kernan said. 
Kernan said that certified checks 
were being prepared and would be 
mailed this weekend to all who had 
purchased the Dec. 8 package. The 
checks should arrive early next 
week, he said. 


~ 

.. 

-~. 

Friday, December 10, 1982 -page 7 
Welcome to the world of cellular radio 
Were you the first person on your block to have a "Pong" game years ago? Did you buy a "Walkman" before they became a fad? Have you looked into getting a wide-screen televi-
Skip Desjardin On the Media , 
sion for the living room back home? Well, here's good news for you. The newest technological fad-to-be is cel­lular radio, and it's just around the corner. 
In the last month, the FCC has begun grant­ing licenses for cellularsystems -two in each major city. 
Cellular radio really has little to do with the kind of radio that plays the latest hits. It is a system ofremote telephones which will even­tually allow people to take their phone with them wherever they go. 
The concept is similar to that of today's increasingly common cordless phones. It's also similar to the concept of "beepers," the paging devices that doctors wear on their belts. 
But it's significantly different than both. 
By 1990, experts estimate, upwards of 3 million people could be carrying telephones the size of a pack of cigarettes. Computers would seperate calls, and expanded fre­quency capabilities would allow the calls to reach their intended recipients. 
But don't rush to your stockbroker, folks. Cellular radio just isn't going to make the big leagues. 
Do you know anyone who's made a bundle investing in companies that make phones for cars? Do you know anybody who actually bas a phone in their car? Have you ever been in a car with a phone? 
So what makes communication industry ob­servers think things will be any different this time around? It doesn't seem to make sense, given developments to this point. 
In most cities, callers can get a service known as "call forwarding." With a quick punch of the buttons, a housewife can receive all her calls at the bridge club meeting, a busi­nessman can be reached at his lawyer's office. Between one place and the next, each can make calls from the car. 
If one is a frequent airline customer, many flights now offer in-flight phone calls. 
In short, the territory is covered already. There just isn't a large enough market to make cellular radio a big profit item. 
AT&T and GTE have the most outstanding license applications, and MCI is third. But even these giant corporations see little money in the venture. One telecommunications analyst predicts that even MCI, by far the smal­lest of the three companies will profit by way of cellular radio to the tune of no more than 10 percent oftotal net earnings. 
So take some advice. Ifyou really feel a need to own a go-anywhere phone, hold your breath -it's on the way. But if your looking for a sinart investment, keep looking into the wide-screen television for the living room back home. 
Publicly sanctioned homicide 
At 12:16 AM on December 8, 1982, the heart of Charles Brooks stopped beating. Brooks did not die from natural causes or an unfortunate accident; he was executed by an injection of a lethal drug. The decision was made by the legal instruments ofsociety after 

Randy Fahs 
Friday Analysis 
they had determined that he was guilty ofkill­mg David Gregory in I976. The drug induced ·execution was supposed to be a "humane 
way" to carry out a most inhuman act. 
My first reaction was one of shock and outrage. Norma Morrison, the mother of David Gregory, said after the execution, "Now there is some hope in this society for victims." Unfortunately, the execution suggests the complete opposite for victims and society as a whole. One man was dead; taking the life of another will neither bring him back nor make up for his death. Even more disturbing is the fact that the prosecuting attorney who con­vinced the jury to give Charlie Brooks the death penalty, Jack Strickland, is not sure that the state ofTexas executed the right man. 
It's all academic now because two lives have been taken. both unnecessarily. the sad thing is that the second death could easily have been prevented. In all of the righteous talk about law and order, it seems that we have forgotten the immortal words of Thomas Jef­ferson when he wrote in the n Declaration of Independence about an unalienable right called life. Also forgotten seems to be the Con­stitutional Amendment in the Bill of Rights which guards against the use of cruel and un­usual punishment. A state sponsored execu­tion is clearly a violation of these two major pillars oflaw and society. 
Life is such a precious and mysterious quality that it is neither understood nor ap­preciated by human beings. I don't under­stand how the legal system can play God and determine that someone must die. What I find even sadder h is that we, as citizens of this societv, are all accomplices to a public sane­
tion tor murder through our passive accep­
tance ofthe death penalty. 
I've heard all ofthe rhetoric about the need 
for capital punishment as a means of maintain­
ing law and order in a hostile society. Capital 
punishment is supported by cruel and narrow 
minded people whose views on the topic can 
only increase the violence in society. It is 
NOT a deterrent to crime. 
All crimes can be broken down into three categories: crimes of passion, ·crimes which are premeditated, and accidental crimes. Capital punishment will prevent none of the from taking place. A crime ofpassion is carried out without ever looking at the conse­quences; it is perpetrated only because of the situation at a given point in time. A premeditated crime is committed by ·someone who feels he will not get caught. Again the the thought ofpossible punishment is not a factor. It is obvious that capital punish­ment will not prevent those quirks of fate 
which are accidental in nature. 
Capital punishment is dehumanizing. The only argument to support it which has some basis for truth is the fact that a convicted felan must be maintained in prison at great public expe11se. In other words, it is cheaper to kill someone than it is to incarcerate them...in dol­lars and cents that is. Fortunately I cannot put such a price tag on a human life. Its nature is too sacred to deal with on such a crass and unsympathetic level. 
By keeping someone behind bars for the rest of their lives, you make them LIVE with the consequences of what they have done. Also, you eliminate the possibility that society might kill the wrong man. A life sentence makes our legal system deal with an earthly act in an earthly way. There is only one defen­sible reason for killing someone and that is self-defense. By keeping someone in prison you prevent him from doing any harm to society. 
The use of capital punishment may appeal to the lowest level ofhuman civilization, but it is cruel, senseless, and part ofthe most savage elements which remain in humanity. In other words, capital punishment should be abolished forever. 
Jesus Christ can look at the present state of his institution and shake his head and say "you've missed the point, my 20th century friends." Catholicism has lost a lot in the trans­lation from principles to practice. 
The Church was meant to be a divine in-


Diane Dirkers 
Campus Quips 
stitution, yet when translated into human terms it becomes hierarchical. There is no­thing wrong with that. However, when the Church becomes such a bureaucracy that most ofits members feel that many ofits rules do not apply to them, it's time to bring the congregation and the hierarchical body back together. 
In a democracy, majority rules. Laws are enacted ranging from such major issues as murder and extortion to issues as miniscule as not parking on a street on odd-dated Tues­days. These laws are binding, but each case is illdi!lidual~v mterprt::ted in court. Interpreta­tions can be appealed. Most important of all, these laws can bechanged as easily as they are instituted. 
The Catholic Church also plavs the role of legislative body. Besides dol'trinal issues. there are regulations on evernhing from felony offenses to how soon bcti>re com­munion one can eat. Howe\er. unlike the lt::gislative system of a secular enun·. manv of 1he laws are never changed. ;md if the~ are it 
Just who or what is the Church? 
takes centuries. 

• Inconsistencies in Catholic rules are dis­missed because of tradition (for example, why, in the 20th century, can't the Catholic Church accept female priests?) or, better yet, because the Pope is infallible. 
Here is an example of an inconsistency which has recent!~ been questioned repeatedly, only to be handed the answer "because the Pope says so." After reading editorial after editorial condemning and supporting birth control,-I took a little time to think. Is it really that big ofa deal? The rhythm method is okay, the pill isn't. On the other hand, abstinence because of the rhythm method is "a beautiful sacrifice". while total abstinence makes a marriage null. What's wrong? Is it a sin to "sacrifice" too much' 
Once, I talked to a priest about the inconsis· tencies I saw. "I believe the major doctrines," I said. "But there are so many little things that the Church makes rules on that I just can't ac­cept." I proceeded to name every one I could think of_ , .divorce and remarriage. birth con­trol. meat on Fridays ...the works. 
"That's okay," he replied. "The major em­pha~is of the Church is love. If you believe in God, and try to live the best you can, you can still claim yourself Catholic." He agreed, as many priests today do, with my feelings about birth control and divorce. 
So what's the point' The point is that there are manv Catholics today that have that same kind of conversation..md. in many case~. the priest re~pomb till' ~.tme way. !'hat ~hould make us all hapJ)\'. right? That\ enough. i~n·t n' We can dt~agree and still remain in the 
Church ... 

No, it's not enough. There's no reason why a Church founded by Jesus Christ to start a ideal, loving, "Kingdom on Earth" should be reduced to a political ball ofred tape. We Cat­holics spend so much time arguing over the minor technicalities that we lose sight of the ultimate earthly goal -a loving community. 
What can be done? First of a!l, many of the rules should be reviewed and de-emphasized or phased out altogether. Second -perhaps this is heresy because it does challenge the infallibility ofthe Pope, but nonetheless-the Church must admit that it can be wrong. 
It's time for the Catholic Church to step away from the rule books and the political bureaucracy of the Vatican and relate once again to the congregation. 
Baltimore catechism states "the Church is its people." If only the many confused Cat­holics of the world could really believe that ... 


Editorial Board Department Managers 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Cbief..............................Michael Monk Business Manager .............................Tony Aiello
The Obserz•er is the independent newspaper published by the students of the l lni­
Managing Editor................Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller.............................................Erk Schulz
versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint "-1ary's College. It does not necessarily retlect 
Executive News Editor ..............David Dziedzic Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owen
the policies of the administration of eit~er institution. The news is reported as ac­
SMCExecutive Editor............Margaret Fosmoe Production Manager..................Maura Murphy
curately and as objectively as possible. C!1signed editorials represent the opinion ofa 
Sports Editor...................................Chris Needles Circulation Manager......................Mark Miotto
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict 
Editorials Editor .,...........................Paul McGinn Systems Manager...........................Bruce Oakley
the views oftheir authors. Column space:-is available to all members ofthe community, 
Features Editor ..................................Tari Brown
and the free expression ofvarying opinionson campus. thwugh letters, is encouraged. 
Photo Editor ...................................Rachel Blount Founded November 3, 1966 
(219)239·5303 
·-~ ---~--­
pageS 

-. --:--.~ ~ ..,., -­

H
ere's the movie column you've all been waiting for. Yes, it is once again time for the best movies ofthe year -in my opinion at least. This year, more than any other, I feel as though I might be doing more ofa service than just giving Notre Dame a guided tour of the left side of my brain. With the substantial increase 

Dennis Chalifour 
movie review 
ofcable TV movie channels in America's living rooms, the oppor­tunity for the public to see some of the year's best movies has also in­creased. Maybe you'll get to see 
what I'm talking about. 
In addition, I should also state that this list represents selections I've made according to the movies I've seen. Diva, Lola, and,Bob, le F/am­beur might very well have been mar­velous films, but I've never had the chance to see them. 
In any case, not to see you chewing on your finger nails in an­ticipation (ifyou'll try to get a drum roll going in your head), here, in al· phabetical order, are my selections for the five best films of 1982: 
Burden ofDreams, Diner, E. T.: The Extra Terrestrial, Fitzcarraldo, and.'11issing. 
A lot of you might be wondering how I ever came up with such a diverse lot offilms. Well, as you may very well have already guessed, I've got an explanation all set. 
Many film historians argue that most film developed from two major roots. The Lumiere Brothers made some ofthe first commercial films in the 1890's featuring single shot cinematic events such as Train Arriving at Station and Workers force behind the Canzonet section, the contrast to Wilson's trombone in the Fantasia section and the blend of the Ayre section. The "Trio" was one ofthe most engaging selections of 
tht: entire program. Zwerneman's 
horn stated a theme to which Bryant 
and Wilson responded in tandem. 
These alternations were crisply per­
formed, giving the piece clarity and 
a defined shape. 
Closing out the program were two rag pieces, "The Chevy Chase" by). Hubert Blake and "The Junk Man Rag" by C. Luckyth Roberts. The xylophone in the former piece and the sliding trombone ofthe lat­ter dominated and energized the rest ofthe ensemble to create an at· mosphere filled with the vibrancy of a dance hall. These were two ex­emplary selections with which to close the half hour recital. They proved the versatility ofthe en­semble while drawing the audience into the enjoyment with which they performed. 
The Saint Mary's Wind Ensemble showed that they are capable of performing an extensive repertoire despite their size and imbalance in numbers. Bryant would like to en­courage any interested instrumen· talists to join their ensemble. 

l:)erforming music ranging from r Elizabethan chamber pieces to ragtime, the Saint Mary's Wind En­semble demonstrated yesterday af­ternoon that the quality of performance need not be sacrificed in order to present an assortment of musical styles. The 13-member en· 
Tcui Brown 
music review 

semble, conducted by Dorothy Bryant, participated in five of the seven selections while the two remaining pieces required three brass instrumentalists on trumpet, trombone and french horn. 
John O'Reilly's "Idyllwild Fan­tasy" opened the program, and with Jane Zwerneman's horn solo, set the qualitative standard for the rest of the program. Two singular and dis­tinctive sounds were pursued by the flute and horn sections, creating a contrasting yet simply layered sound. As the piece progressed and the rest of the ensemble joined in, the music seemed to take on the quality ofa theme song from awes­tern television show; very rhythmic, rich and rounded in tonal quality. 
There were a few precision errors that created a perceptible dis­sonance in this ensemble theme, but such mistakes were forgiveable in light ofthe demands of the piece. The ensemble, small as it was, was able to unify the sound ofthe various instruments and present a wholistic 
piece of music. 
Conductor Bryant explained that "flexible arranging," a technique which enables every part to be covered by a variety ofinstruments, was employed in Bach's "Prelude and Fugue." There was a con­siderable difference in character in the two sections. Bach's prelude seemed to burden the instrumen­
talists, causing them to strive more for accuracy of technique while sacrificing the natural flow and character ofthe piece. At times it was apparent that there was a cer· tain amount ofhesitation on the part of the instrumentalists. The jux· taposition ofthe various parts lacked cohesion and clarity in rhythm. Whereas character was missing in the prelude, character was the propelling force behind the fugue. The layered tonal music was per· ti.Jrmed with excellent precision, particularly in the woodwinds. Ac­curacy seemed to be instinctive, allowing the musicians to provide 
be there. Most impressive was the ritard that concluded the piece; the timing seemed to communicated by feel. 
The finale to Haydn's "Farewell Symphony" can be a problematic piece of music to perform iffor no other reasOn than because ofits familiarity and the expectations imposed upon it by the audience. The ensemble was able to fulfill the expectations of most any listener. The alternating solo sections be­tween the horns and woodwinds were distinct, clean and functioned very well as statement/response. The woodwind section peaked in its performance, losing the edge and slight hesitation ofthe earlier pieces. The exit ofthe instrumentalists from the stage, beginning with the horns, left a sole percussionist striking a tri· angle on stage. This set up the two 
brass trio pieces to follow. 
Dorothy Bryant on trumpet, Jane Zwerneman on horn, and Mary Wit· son on trombone performed Thomas Morley's tripartite "Elizabethan Suite" and Vaclav Nel· hybel"s "Trio for Brass" with the precision and tluidity necessary for a trio sound to be complete. Bryant's trumpet seemed to propel the 
"Suite," providing the cohesive 
The best movies of 1982 

Lecwing the Lumiere Factory. In 
time audiences got bored with 
looking at simple real-time events. 
The basic filmic yearn of"show me your reality" has remained in many films. The urge for something different however, led to the success offilms such as those produced by Georges Melies. Melies was known 
for playing with his image in films likcA Trip to theMoon. This, in turn, marked the birth ofthe particularly cinematic experience known as "filmic reality", that reality which can only exist in films. 
All five of the films I have chosen for my best list succeed by showing us a reality that hovers between these two extremes. The most im­portant element they all share is the authentically human characters which people each ofthe films. 
Burden ofDreams: Although it is first in this list only by the grace of the "B" its title begins with, this Les Blank documentary may very well be at the top of many of the lists you'll be seeing this Christmas. (IfI were to have a gun pointed at my head while some maniac demanded that I choose just one best film, I think this one would do the trick. ) At the very least, it is certainly the best film I've ever seen about man as creator. 
Les Blank ha~ done more than just "the making ofaFitzcarraldo" flick. He shows us a particular reality, filmically yet truthfully enhanced. An artistic portrait ofan artist thwarted by his own humanity. Even then,Bu,·den ofDreams is more than just a portrait offilmmaker Werner Herzog -it is about (and very much recommended to) anyone who has ever attempted any­thing. 
Diner: Barry Levinson's elegy to the American Fifties garners a place on this list by the grace of what I thought was some of the best dialogue I've ever heard in the movies. There's not a word in this film that fails to ring true. In fact, the tilm seems more akin to the spirit of the Lumere Brothers than an actual documentary like Burden of Dreams. 
But don't get the idea that the home movies your dad took might also get a place on my list for their realistic qualities. Diner most im­portantly delves into themes ofmale camaraderie as successfully as anyone since Howard Hawks. (and, might I add, it was certainly nice to see male camaraderie portrayed in a framework outside of World War Two.) As I mentioned earlier this year, these characters are so aut­hentically human, they'll become a few ofyour best friends by the end of the film. 
E.T.: The Extra-Terrestrial: When I tirst saw E. T., I never dreamed I'd have to make an argument for its place among the best films of the year. Box oftice success has a ten­dency to cloud vision. It is quite ob­viously the one tilm on this list closest to the spirit of Georges Melies. In fact, if Melics were alive today, I'm certain he'd chooseE. T. as one ofthe finest tilms ever made. No one can stake a claim as Steven Spiel­berg's better when it comes to manipulating tllmic reality. 
Exactly what makesE.T. succeed is the way in which the reality works. There is a theme ofbrotherly love here that is stripped to the bones and dressed in wonderful cinemati<.: imagery so that it b tested beyond any earthly limits and proven to work (Einstein would like this part) throughout the universe. What we are rooting for in this tilm goes beyond the soirit of human beings (it is the work of human beings that brings about destruc­tion), it repr<.:scnts life itself. 
What makesE.T. wholly different from any other motion picture on this list is the way in whiich it could work only as a motion picture.E.T. provdes us with a very strong argu­ment for the unique importance of tilm. 
Fitzcarraldo represents the massive dream with which filmmaker Werner Herzog is bur­dened. Herzog is the director most like the Lumiere Brothers in his technique. What makes Herzog's fil­mic images so strong is the way in which he insists upon making the images exist in the real world before committing them to tilm. What can you say about a twenty ton steam­ship being dragged up the side ofa mountain with the use ofpulleys, ropes, and a couple hundred natives? 
Fitzcarraldo is pure poetry capturing all the qualties ofBurden ofDreams plus a calculated dream world that slowly engulfs an audience like a hallucinogenic drug. 
Missing: Costa-c;arvas is the quin­tessential political tilmmaker. lie successfully takes documented facts and molds them into a slyly filmic reality ..Wissing might have have l'ct"n attempted by a lesser filmmaker in the form ofa straight docu-drama. Instead, Costa-(;arvas manipulates his audience with various versions ofthe truth, leading them toward discovery and letting them drop. It is the perfect form for a political narrative -filmic frustra­tion. 
Costa-Garvas manages to people the structural unreality ofMissing with real human charaters. (Jack Lemmon becomes one of the most truly American characters the movies have ever seen.) The frustra­tion is felt doubly..'11 issing is one 111m that certainly won't leave you talking about the popcorn. 
~r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~--~-------~ 
·····························•••!!~;;~··~~··~·i••················~············· 
ihe Observer Features Section 
Friday, December 10, 1982 -page 9 
The vi pet's sin 
H
ypocrisy is such an egregious sin -smacking of Pharisees puffed up with pride and legalisms, whom Our Lord denounced as a generation ofvipers ­that Iwas thrilled the mher day to read in the paper that one ofour priests ha..-. taken a hypocritical stand. Stu­dents don't sniffout hypocrisy the way they used to. In the old days, when Fr. Hesburgh was chairman of the Civil Rights Commission, articles were printed two or 
Rev. Robert Griffin 
letters to a lonely god 
three times a week proving him to be a whited sepulchre. Either the moral critics are failing in their powers ofdiscernment, or hypocrisy is losing its grip as. a clerical distraction. 
A hypocrite, says the dictionary, is pretending to be what he is not, or to feel what he does not feel; especial­ly, a pretense ofvirtue. Webster has more, but inves­tigators can read for themselves. Catechisms should be consulted, but I don't own a catechism that defines hypocrisy. My moral attentivelless is not perfect, you see, but I hope that does not appear to make me a sham. 
It is good to see the hypocrites shaken out oftheir high and mighty roost. Confront them on the streets, confront them on the beaches, with their holier-than­thou facades. A cleric is usually exposed to double jeopardy when he errs. Lay people only have to accuse themselves once: "Bless me father, -for I have sinned. I am guilty ofbeing a thief, a liar, a libertine, an idolator." Hypoocrisy is the priest's other sin; it never fails to be 
monstrously there. For example, a priest preaches the 
necessity of becoming a saint. He tells you that in the 
evening oflife, your greatest regrets will be your 
failures in love. By his fruits, you will know him. In his 
personal life, you find out, he's no paragon ofvirtue; he's 
big on hating. lie has given lip service to an ideal he 
doesn't practice himself. Casting him into the exterior 
darkness is too good for the likes ofhim. His hypocrisy 
entitles him to the unfailng attention of the worm that 
dieth never. 
Accusations of hypocrisy make me tremble, because 
it reminds me ofmy father's contempt for Catholics. He 
was a Methodist who said he preferred the company of 
adulterers and drunkard~ to hypocritical preachers 
who covered their faults with a cloak oflight. I gave up 
singing in the Congregational church choir; because of 
my father, it was too close to the altar for comfort. IfI 
talked back to my mother even once, he would mock 
me as a hypocrite who hurt his old lady's feelngs with 
rough words, and then went to church to chortle God's 
praises with those same sacrilegious lips. He hated my 
going to the seminary. Catholic priests were the arch­
hypocrites ofall, he thought, because as a boy, he had 
seen them drinking beer at Knights ofColumbus pic­
nics. He had heard stories oftheir twisting money out of poor widows for Masses to get their husbands' souls out ofpurgatory. My father was one ofthe best men I ever knew. It hurt him deeply to have a son who wanted to join the hypocrites' profession. 
Sadly enough for me, I have never felt like a hypocrite. The priests I know are rarely hypocritical. A few priests are saints, and a number became poor wretches. They wouldn't pull the wool over you eyes, because you could tell when you saw them that they are burnt-out cases. When you get to be my age, you respect the wonderful group you have grown old with. 
Some of us can't preach worth a damn. Some of us are 
overgrown jocks. We become cross with Catholics who 
blow away their chances. We nag the parishioners over 
the parish debt. Age or sickness make us timid, so that 
we feel threatened by change. We know Almighty God 
will forgive our sins; we're still trying to find the mercy 
with which we can forgive ourselves. We had expected 
to pray better, to believe more confidently, and to keep 
closer to the love which will not let us go, in the hide­
and-seek way that God has ofbeing endearing or 
exasperating. 

Apriest, ifhe's been around for twenty years or more, 
is probably not much better or worse than your own 
father. Saying Mass every day doesn't make a silk purse 
out ofa sow's ear, but it gives you pleasant dreams, and 
it fortifies your courage and sense of humor. 
It always seems to me that if a priest administrator 
fails, it means that he is a bad administrator rather than a 
bad prier. The Church expects her priests to make 
serious mistakes, and encourages them to go to confes­
sion with great regularity. Students are not always so 
patient about mistakes which may turn out to be honest 
differences in judgment. Yet the priests I know best are 
always grateful to the University family for the love we 
may or may not deserve, and for the respect we may not 
have earned. 

I would never quarrel in print with a student's 
opinion. I try to be faithful to alii believe, but I don't 
usually succeed. My sins are often obvious, not needing 
to be overlooked, because I am willing to be held 
responsible for my mistakes, though I decline to do 
public penance. Iwish you would go easy with the label 
ofhypocrite, and make sure the shoe fits before you ask 
some priest to wear it. Ifl play the hypocrite, I know my 
father's ghost will track me down at midnight to scold 
my conscience. 

Whatever the limitations of the Holy Cross order, I 
don't believe we qualify as Pharisees. Holy Cross love is 
the love that built the place. Each of us in the Com­
munity will go to heaven in single file, leaving Notre 
Dame behind us for others to serve. We take pride in 
being faithful to a great tradition while we're here. The 
weary priests and brothers asleep in our cemetery ­
many ofwhom wore out early -gave themselves the 
best they could in service to the campus. They went 
home to God, hopeful that He would praise them as 
good and faithful servants. 
Juggler: For closet intellectuals 
A n article in the November issue riD£Scholastic complains that in­tellectual intercourse at Notre Dame seems restricted to the un­natural and fluorescent-lit atmos­phere ofthe classroom. Pleading the case ofthose "closet intellectuals who, male or female, may discover 
ffiike Garvey 
features 
that finding other students with whom to share intellectual interests outside the classroom is no mean 
feat," the author admits that he has "sometimes opted to spend a Friday 
night dripping beer on my shoes 
rather than squinting at subtitles in 
the Snite Auditorium." 
The sincerity of the admission is admirable. but the dichotomy it assumes (that drinking on Friday night, which is enjoyable and which involves fellowship is one thing, while watching a foreign film, which is "intellectual" and therefore grim­ly necessary is quite another) is in­felicitous. Equally infelicitous is the conspicuous absence in the article ofany mention otjuggler, :'llotre Dame's superb literary magazine, whose editors and contributors type in America. The Fall 1982 issue, have been central to a community according to its editor (Patrick Mul­which has been dripping beer on its ligan), has the modestly broad shoes for generations. purpose ofsuggesting "the multi­
plicity of ways in which we com­As long ago as the mid 1970's, municate shared human concerns."
when I was a member of that com­The variety ofcontent testifies to the
munityJuggler's editorial policy 
honesty and enthusiasm with whichwas inspired in the classroom, but that purpose has been approached,
forged in the pay cafeteria of the and while there is not space enough
South Dining Hall. Compositon was here to criticize the ten poems, twooften done in the woods behind St. 
stories, six photographs, two
Mary's, the southernmost corner of 
monotypes, and two essays whichthe bar at Corby's, and on the front comprise the issue, Observerporch ofa Sourh Bend Avenue readers and closet intellectuals haveresidence occupied by a man ample opportunity to obtain it for everybody called Friedbrain and themselves. They might be hear­about whom the editors knew little. 
tened to learn that scores of theirAlthough space had been provided contemporaries are having the goodfor the purpose in LaFortune Stu­time which might have seemed todent Center, most editorial board them unavailable here. They might
meetings took place in a bar which even decide that they would like to
was then called Cliffs (now called have a good time, too. 
the Commons). The membership of the editorial board, for obvious reasons, wa.~ informally determined and as many faculty as students took 
************* 
part in the selection of manuscripts. 
The poems, stories, essays and (AfreecopyoftheFall 1982]ug­artworks presented injuggler have gler may bepicked up at thefollow­varied in quality over the years and ing locations: Student Activities in no contributor. to my knowledge, 
LaFortune Center; Memorial has been nominated for so much as a Library Circulation Desk; English Pulitzer Prize, but the magazine Office-309 O'Shag;SniteMuseum.) compares favorably with any ofits 

•THEATRE 
The days ofarranged marriages have ended, but the literary and theatrical relics still survive. The tradition is that a spinster woman of the town surveyed available men and women, consulted their parents as to financial specifications, including dowries and in­heritances, and proposed a marital "coalition" based on her research. The matchmaker, as she was called, became immortalized in literature as far back as 1835 inA Day Well Spent byJohn Oxen­ford. In the twentieth century, Thornton Wilder chose this theme which subsequently has become the theme of Broadway musicals, Fiddler on the Roofindirectly and Hello, Dolly directly. Wilder's farce, The Matchmaker continues this weekend and next weekend at the South Bend Civic Theatre, 701 Portage Avenue. Tonight, tomorrow night, and Dec. 16, 17 and 18 the company will take the stage at 8 p.m. For more information, call 234-5696 or 233-0683. 
•DANCE 

Earlier this semester, a proposed Ballroom Dance class was can­celled. Apparently, lack ofinterest was not the reason for such recourse. Tonight in the Chautauqua Ballroom, the Student Union will sponsor a Ballroom Dance and dance lessons. For those ofyou who cannot remember the days ofthe Fox Trot, the Box Step or the dances that became the rage in the marathon days ofthe thirties, Dan O'Day of the Dan O'Day Dance Studio, will give lessons starting at 8:30p.m. At the end of the instruction period, approximately 9:30 p.m., Mr. O'Day and his partner from the studio will demonstrate their technique. After everyone has learned the moves, the dance it­selfwill begin (at 10 p.m.). Semi-formal attire is the attire for the eve­ning. Refreshments will be served. To defray the costs, there is an admission charge, S2 per person or S3 per couple, which may be paid in advance at the Student Union Ticket Office or at the door. Happy dancing! 
•MOVIES 

Through the ages, the legend of the greatest king of the Britons, 
Arthur, has been preserved in such epics as Mallory's Le .'11orte 
d'Artur, Tennyson'sldylls oftbe King and Twain's satire, A Connec­
ticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court. Since the advent of the 
cinematic medium, the history ofArthur has found its way into many 
plots. After a period of respite, King Arthur's adventures have again 
become the subject ofa major motion picture. Excalibur stands as 
one ofthe finest cinematic attempts at capturing the atmosphere and 
life of"Arthurian" England and the Middle Ages. It will be shown in 
the Engineering Auditorium at 7 and I 0 p.m. Admission is SI. 
To close the Friday Night Film Series, the Notre Dame/Saint 
Mary's Communication and Theatre Department will be showing 
Man ofMarble in the Annenberg Auditorium at 7:30p.m. Director 
Andrzej Wadja follows in the stream ofOrson Welle's Citizen Kane 
in tracing the life of Mateusz Birkut, a government-created hero of 
the '50s working clas~. Admission is S2. 
•MUSIC 

The University of Notre Dame Chorale, under tthe direction of 
Carl Starn, will present its Fall Semester Campus Concert on Friday, 
December 10, at 8:15p.m. in Washington Hall. The Chorale, a select 
group ofmixed voices, ha.~ prepared a program including selections 
from Stravinsky's Mass, Bach'sLobet den Herrn, all Heiden, and 
Faure's Cantique dejean Racine. Complimenting these serious 
pieces will be a number ofspirituals, madrigals and Christmas 
Carols. Come enjoy the magic ofmusic presentd by the Chorale. Ad­
mission is free and early seating is advised. 
In keeping with the spirit of the season, the Department of Music 
at Saint Mary's is sponsoring a concert Sunday evening at 8 p.m. 
which will feature music associated with the Yuletide season. Les­
sons and Carols will be performed by the various Saint Mary's choirs 
and Chamber singers in the Church ofLoretto. The Notre 
Dame/Saint Mary's community is invited to attend. 
Amah/ and the Night Visitors, a one-act operetta that has become 
a Christmas classic. will be performed tomorrow :md Sunday nights 
at 7:'0 p.m. in the Goshen College Umble Center. Amah/, by 
modern Italian composer Giancarlo Menotti, tells the story ofa poor 
crippled shepherd boy and his mother who are visited by the Three 
Kings on the night ofthe babyJesus' birth. Tickets are S I and can be 
purchased at the door. 
•NAZZ 

As veterans of the Nazz will tell you, students, faculty, staff, 
children offaculty, children ofstaff, children oftownies, children at 
heart, in other words, everyone and anyone, await the arrival ofthe 
Christmas Nazz. This event ranks right up there with the Southern 
Cal-Notre Dame football game, UCLA-NO, etc., in attendance and en­
thusia.o;tic fans. In the past, there have been-the traditional audience 
participation caroling, dramatic readings of various Christmas 
stories, lots of music, singing and fun. This year's Christma.o; Nazz 
promises to top its predecessors. The evening will feature Matt 
Feeney, Bob O'Donnell,John Foryt, Betsy Quinn and Greg Sobowski. 
Sources say that there will be elves present to supply North Pole­
type cocoa and cookies. 
r--~-.~----------·-------~-------------------------~~  
r  -----------­----­The Observer  -------~------------------­I  ,.  --------­Friday, Decembc:~r 10, 1982 ­page 10  

r -t 
r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·--------------~---­

AFTER DECEMBER 17, ·
r 

THIS MAY BE THE ONLY WAY YOU CAN SEE THE WHO. 
CA1'rlPUS ENTERTAINI'rlENT NET\VORK PRESENTS THE WHO: THE FINAL CONCERT. BROUGHT TO YOU BY SCHLITZ-11THE TASTE THAT ROCKS AMERICA." 
Schlitz Beer brought The WHO to 32 cities 
CEN Colleges enjoy many unique entertain­this year..\nd now, Campus Entertainnwnt ment events like The \VHO presented live via :\'etYvork, with the support of Schlitz, brings satellite. You can share in this historic event ·:ou The \YHO, live, December 17 for what with millions of \\'HO fans at CEN campuses 'may be the la..'>t time. and large screen concert video centers every~ 
where. 
A LIVE~ SATELLITE PRESENTATION 
FOR .\\ORE INFORMATION CONTACT YOUR STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD OR YOUR LOCAL ROCK RADIO STATION. 
--------...---"'1111 
~j)(),-tS:IJ:=~=:i:~~~~S==============================Fr=id=a=y,=D=e=ce=~~b=e~r~l0~,~~9~8=2~p=a=g=e==ll 
-------~­

lh !he Uhsen•er and !he A.ssociatl!d Press 
Kelly Tripucka's doctors yesterday removed a Men's and women's swimmerSwill travel to 
cast from the Detroit Pistons' forward's knee and predicted the one of the nation's fastest pools tomorrow as the Irish take on the injured former Notre Dame all-American could return to the lineup Vikings of Cleveland State. The men are 1-0 after an opening win in four weeks. Tripucka suffered a strained ligament in his right knee over Western Michigan, and the women's team is 1-1. -The Ob­two weeks ago in Kansas City. Doctors originally predicted sen•er Tripucka's absence would be six to eight weeks, but now it will be 
closer to four weeks. -AP The Irish wrestlers will participate tomorrow in a . M ' . triangular meet tomorrow with Northwestern and Marquette. The
Satnt ary s swtm teamwill open the curtain on site will be Notre Dame High School in Niles, Ill., as Northwestern'sits season tomorrow with a meet at Valparaiso. Scott Trees' squad :\olcGaw Hall is being renovated. -The Obsen•ercompetes in Division Ill. -The Observer 
Mike Rouse's resurgent Saint :vtary's basketball The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Ski Team will 
team, 2-3 after taking second in last week's Goshen Tournament, will hold a mandatory meeting for all students interested in trying out for play tonight at the Angela Athletic Facility against St. Mary-of-the­the 1982 squad on Tuesday, Nov. 1-i at 7:30 in the LaFortune Little Woods. Tipoff is set for 7. -The Obseruer. Theatre. -The Obserz,er 
NHL Standings 
PRINCE OF WALES CONFEi'IENCE 
Adams Division 

W L T GF GA Pta. Montreal 17 7 6 146 106 40 Boston 16 8 6 129 97 38 Quebec 14 11 3 133 126 31 Buffalo 12 10 6 116 95 30 Hartford 7 17 3 91 135 17 
Patrick Division N Y Islanders 16 12 5 117 102 37 Ph•ladelph•a 15 10 4 112 91 34 NY Rangers 14 13 115 115 29 Washington 11 9 99 100 29 P1ttsburgh 9 14 5 94 125 23 New Jersey 6 19 7 93 137 19 
CLARENCE CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
Smythe Dvlslon 

W L T GF GA Pis Edmonton 14 10 7 146 130 35 Los Angeles 13 10 5 104 101 31 W1nmpl>g 12 11 3 116 110 27 Vancouver 10 13 6 110 107 26 Calgary 10 16 6 126 135 26 
Norris Division 

Ch1cago 18 4 6 121 87 42 
Mmnesota 18 8 4 136 108 40 
St LOUIS 10 18 3 107 122 23 
Toronto 5 15 5 86 113 15 
DetrOit 5 17 6 75 119 16 







The Observer will accept class1fteds Mon­day through Fnday. 10 a.m to 4 30 p m However. class1f1eds to appear 111 the next 1ssue must be rece1ved by 3 p.m. the bus1ness day pnor to 1nsert1on. All class1f1eds must be prepaid. 
e1ther 111 person or through the mail 
Classifieds 
I left my gloves tn Moreau Hall Not Gimme a break! Need nde to Kansas C1ty or central Mts­PITTSBURGH CLUB .CHRISTMAS
THE MARK MIOTTO FUND In the mood of holiday g1vmg. why not

very melodtc, bullhe truth Actually. I left A Chnstmas break. that 1s soun on Dec 18 or 19 Will share usual BREAK Bus S1gn-ups. Sunday Dec
NOTICES 
my black gloves and grey hat underneath Actually, what you need to g1mme IS a nde Call SMC 4094 donate to lhts poor tndtvtdual so that he 12 Lafortune Little Theater at 7pm a chair 1n 114 Moreau on Tuesday mght home. to the Ph1ladelph1a/ Allentc.Nn, 
can wake up to a typewnter under h1s must altend the meeting after chOir rehearsal If you found them, PA/Wilmtngton. Del/South Jer·
Professional typ1ng Free p1ck up and Chnstmas tree along wtth the hve volume delivery Delivery wtthtn 24 hours. $.80 bnng them to the NO Observer offtce or sey/Harnsburg/even North Jersey(!) manual Learn How to Type Without any Suzanne my future secretary 
call 288-1822 or 239-5313 (leave a area for break Call T1m at 288-1822 or 
per page. 282-1805 Real Tatem· 
FOR SALE

leave a message at the Observer off1ce (239-5303) message) 
Professtonal typ1ng. Free p1ck up and LEARN HOW TO TYPE MIOTTOII! 
delivery. Delivery Within 24 hours. $.80 LOST AT SMC SOPMORE FORMAL USED HOOKS Bought. Sold. Searched
per page. 282-1805 DC CLUB. IT'S FINALLY TIME FOR BUS SIGN-UPS!!! SUNDAY. DEC 12 FROM 
11121182 GREY B. BROS. SUITCOAT Desperately need ride to Pittsburgh­ERASMUS BOOKS Tues-Sun. 12-6 PLEASE HELP! I need a nde to TAMPA. 
AT AMERICANA IF YOU PICKED IT UP Dec 18.Call Karen at 7939 1027 E Wayne One Block South of FL for X-MAS. Please call
TYPING. Jackie Boggs, 684-8793 7-8 PM IN LAFORTUNE BALL·
BY ACCIDENT. CALLJEFFAT277-0992 Eddy-Jefferson IntersectiOn T<;my,3079/3082/3078 Thanks RIDE TO NYC area wantd for Xmas break ROOM $70.00 ROUND-TRIP YOU Typ1st Needs Work 277-8534 a~er 6pm MUST PAY TO RESERVE A SEAT 
as early as Fn . Dec 17th Call Tom -FOR SALE 1981 HONDA ACCORD LX. CH-CH-CH-CHANGES ...
M-F LOST: Glasses 1n a powder-blue case 8425 l1ke new-19.000m•les. CrUise. AJC. P S .. Th1s week. The Top 20 Time Tunnel and 2-EW STANFORO WISHES HOWARD 
TYPING AVAILABLE· 287-4082. (large lenses. torto1se shell and gold AM-FM cassetle $7800 Phone Block of Rock wtll reverse thetr t1mes SCOTT HOWELL A HAPPY 22ND
frames) probably between Farley and the Riders wanted to DetrOit area or po1nts Plymouth 1 -936· 7032 Ttm Neely Will come al you w1th the top 20 
BIRTHDAY!!!

library. It found. please call Sue-6736 east along 1-94 Departure wtll be tn the hits for th1s date 1n the past Sunday at 4
Wash•nglon, DC Club... Your ttme has latea~ernoononDec 19 Ca11Tanal239-REFRIGERATOR FOR SALE· great p.m•. and Karen Sadlier Will follow tm·come! Sign-ups tor the Chnstmas bus are MULLANES (THE WILD WOMAN)5313 or 7981 late at n1ght Chnstmas present! Dorm-stze. 3 2 cu. tt med1ately at 6. (Thts w111 probably beSunday. Dec. 12 from 7-8 p.m. 1n May your b-day candles FLAMES never
1n excellent condition call 234-2456. ho­WSND·AMs last TTTT presentation. so HELP' 1 or 2 ndes needed to MD/DC/VA ho-ho be there) burn out. may your preppy beer mug LaFortune Ballroom...$70 00 round lrip. 
FOR RENT
You must pay to rAserve your seat. 
never run dry. may your btg eamngs al­ways carry clout. & may you sludy hard Can leave at 4 on the 21st. Call Joan at Thais on YOUR rock ·n roll source. 

1334 or Kath1 at 1326. FOR SALE Full set ot Stanley Kaplan WSNDAM64!
I need a nde to Florida for Xmas.Can 
Student Housing -Clean Safe on Saturday ··NICE TRY! And you th1nk
MCAT Study Books. Avo1d the pantc and $100/mo. 291-1405. NEED RIDE TO ATLANTA FOR XMAS IS Wait NEXTleave the 21 si.Eiizabeth 7220 TWENTY PLENTY? ttllslart studying now Call Nancy x5221 year! Happy B-day--Luv. J (the nice girl)
WILL SHARE$ CALL JIM 8721 SMC. Suz1e you re the one for me therefore 1II Room for rent for female grad or law stu­CARVER SONIC HOLOGRAM watt till you re free a fnendSEMINAR & DEMO dent in ND Ave. Apts. $180 plus electnc Kelly Mullaney ts 20 on Sat --call and
NEED RIDE TO DALLAS. FT WORTH. 
For Sale: REFRIGERATOR 2 cubtc ~Whafs a Some Hologram? h's a spec­Call Madeleine at 287-4644 after 11 w1sh her a Happy B-Day --SMC 4389
TX. OR ALBUQUERQUE. N.M. FOR 6849 after 1 0 pm J F . You were there when I needed you.
tacular new way to recreate a three XMAS BREAK CAN LEAVE 12/14 P M but I never expected 11. That moment w1HdimensK>nal sound image tn your room. 
NEED A FEMALE ROOMMATE. Cute HAPPY BIRTHDAY MOM! Th1s ts your
CALL DAMON ODER AT GOSHEN COL­mean more than any wm w111 A fnendThe Sante Hologram can be added Ia any Loft Apl . Good Location. 95.00/MONTH LEGE. 1-533-3161. EXT. 213. from the somet1mes-wJid. somettmes-frustrattngstereo system and works wtth any record-Ulls. included Call234-0824 son wtshmg you a most blessed and tng. Hear A Spectacular en1oyable day. I love you NEED RIDERS to/from SOUTHERN Dave Terrance...

PERSONALS
Demonstration at 5-BEDROOM. COMFORTABLE, COM­
CALIFORNIA or TUSCON/PHOENIX 1n touch wtth 
The Aud1o Spectaltsls PLETELY FURNISHED HOUSE, CLOSE 
areas for Chnstmas vacatton. CALL BOB mystenous
401 North M1Ch1gan 
TO NDU. STARTING JULY, 1983. CALL Gregory

atx1681 forces
Need Round Tnp R1de To ConnecticutSoulh Bend 288-3942 
For Chrtslmas Break Will Share Usual Wanled 1·2 riders lo Ft. Wallon Beach,Fnday. December 10 at 8:00PM 
M1m1 234-5001 
Please Call Dan At 6824 anytime.

CLEAN. FURNISHED APT CLOSE TO Is th1s really your ftrst personal? Well. th1s
Fla. Leav1ng Dec. 21 Call Ann1e (5544) THE PEAR... CAMPUS 135/MONTH 233-8163 Will also be your first Mornssey Chnstmas
eventngs. on banded
Atlanta Bash. Let s get black and red and really


Atlanta knee 
Near ND. 2-bdrm., unfurnished. ulilities NEED RIDE TO WASH DC area for (c·mon, you know) your Favorite Arky 
ATLANTA pa1d less gas. Call272-0261. 

Xmas Can leave a~er noon on Dec 21 Need R1de to Atlanta on Dec 22. Call
LOST/FOUND 
Call Theresa at 4588 To the attent1on of· Photlus
Dave at 6931 Sub1ect. Thursday's Cartoon

Furnshed house for rent,gd II. cond.,4bdrm ,close to campus.ava1lable Has tl really been a year? Whoosh!!! It
NEED RIDERS 1-way. TO. No. Message. Bravol
LOST: Tl-55 CALCULATOR on the 2nd 1983-1984 school year.Call287-5361 BUY CANDYGRAMS!!!$.25 only!! has dehmtely been the most enroyable tn
Va.(Quant1co area). FROM: Tampa/St Sender That Cash1n-type 
floor of the library Sunday. Nov 28, w1th 
my life WE!!!!!!! Love.x31 case. My name ts etched on the back. 
Pele For Xmas-Call Nancy at 3397 
ROOM FOR RENT 
REWARD Call MIKE at 3571 HELP!!!!! I NEED A RIDE TO NYC AND
for spnng sam PENNSYLVANIA -RIDE NEEDED • Hey KEYS1 Best of luck ton1ght Ill be
FROM NYC FOR CHRISTMAS BREAK
house pnv AS HEARD ON WAOR-FM 95. THE AL·
Poconos are great for sk11ng Help there to cheer you on Luv. Roomte good nmbrhd TERNATIVE NIGHTCLUB PRESENTSLOST: Tl-55 CALCULATOR on the 2nd WILL SHARE USUAL PLEASE CALL 
anytime. Will share all expenses
floor of the library Sunday, Nov. 28, Wlfh JACK 6720 
$100/month APEX THIS FRI & SAT NIGHTS FROM 9
(gas,dnvtng). Call Warren at 1167 NOW I CONGRATULATIONS MIKE ANDcase. My name IS etched on the back call Btll 233-3014 TIL 1 YOU NEED NOT BE 21 TO ENTER 
Will share all expenses (gas,drivlng.etc.) MARIBETHt BEST WISHES FOR
REWARD. Call MIKE at 3571 Yes DAN NELSON. it IS known that today 
Call Warren at 1167 NOW!! YEARS OF BLISS
is your 21st birthday. W1ll the d1rt on Ern1e LOST PAIR OF GLASSES THURSDAY be revealed 1n a drunken stupor? Boo on
S1ngle bedroom. 4 rooms. appliances & II I don't get a ride home to Plttaburgh,MORNING IF FOUND PLEASE CALL Ernte! Cold shower tomght? A few
NEED RIDE NYC NJ AREA FOR XMAS KEV-Just th1nk. what would l1fe be ma1or utilities turn1shed 150 00 288-6721 then I won't be able to wish my mother
CAN LEAVE ANYTIME AFTER 12-18 Wlthout--SB. V2. (Band-AidS. Pokmg
1653. REWARDIIII!! Strohs? Feel the pam!! Tomcats eat Merry Christmas which would be a sadAFTER 11 PM 284-5338 KAREN Palaces). GoJUice. SDH. the Brar.
qUIChe.

3&4 bedroom homes. appliances fur· sad thing because then I probably
recreatmg. PARIETALS (red lime­LOST one pair of glasses. 1n a brown mshed. garages. gas heat. 225.00 -wouldn't get my new stereo. So please

R1de needed to PHILA for Xmas break motivate). attntlon rate (Bowling Alley)?
case. near Stepan Parktng lot call call NEED RIDE TO JERSEY WILL SHARE
275 00 288-6721 calf Dan at 8641. I can leave on Tuea­
Can leave any11me from 12/20 om Call OH WELL' BON ANNIVERSAIRE. Hope
Donat 1771 USUAL CALLED 1419 day evening, the 21 at. Thankyou
Frank at 277·2736 your 20th IS THE BEST'!' Lets never stop Furn eft room. utJht1es pd . near NO. 
revelallng ILY--DREGFOUND one Sliver and black tabby cat GUADALUPE FIESTA Sun Dec-·12 --LoUisa.

$100 mo 255-8505 EASTERN PENNA -RIDE NEEDED ­
for further tnformaiiOn call 283-4305 4:30 Mass at Sacred Heart ·· 55:30 Chill 
See these eyes so green.Supper and mustc at LaFortune Ballroom 
LOST. A golds-cham w1th a gold cube on ALL WELCOME Along 1-80 east to Poconos for X-mas KEVIN MICHAEL LUZAK. Hathegapof-' 

Help me get there Am able to leave thegy B1rtheg•rthofthegayl!l!ll Hope thts I can stare for a thousand years 
Colder lhan the moon.

12/22 Will share all expenses B:day (BIG 20!) IS MADNESS Breakfast (gas.dnv1ng)! Call Warren NOW at 1167!1 tn Ch1cago maybe? Round~the-ctock? 
11 If you find 11. please call Laura at 4624 Its been so long
WANTED
Great senttmental value Thanks Dear Bnan. 
Feel my blood enraged 


Thanks Were there' ··I WISh you happ1ness loday
As your mystenou"s secret pal. 
It s 1ust the fear. LOST TIMEX WATCH WITH BROWN I hope I have brought you cheer. 
and always·· Love & K1sses. Jethegeame Need R1de To Connecticut For Chnstmas need nde to Johnstown or Pittsburgh Pa 
Of los1ng you.LEATHER BAND ON TUESDAY. NOV. I hope all goes the way you want. 
Don I you know my name? 30 OF GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE Throughout the com1ng year
Break Please Call Dan At 6824 anytime for break Can leave dec 20 call Steph ATTENTION ALL KEYNANSI!! Sunday IS 
You ve been so long,THOUGHT TO HAVE BEEN LOST Yours truly. 
x6798 Will share usual Keynan Independence Day So And I ve been putttng out hre, 
WASHINGTON DC AREA Need a nde on everybody gtve Loutsa a call and wtsh her 
SOME-WHERE BETWEEN THE Me W1th gasoline
December 22 Call Kathleen at 232-2533 a bloody fantastic Independence Day
-STADIUM PARKING LOT AND THE 
(At least tiS 1n English th1s ttme.)BUSINESS ADMIN-1ST RATION BUILD­
PLEASE HELP' Need nde to DC after Hernumberts3141 PLEASE HELP! need nde to DC for 4pm 12/21 Maura X2244 ING IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL PAT AT 
Tern Jenntngs turns 20 on Sunday'

Xmass-after 4pm 12/21 Maura X2244 Don t you want me baby? Don t you know Stephame Callendar IS 19 and never
SMC. 284-5456 S Happy B1rthday. Ra1s1n!
me baby? Won t you tell me baby? been Rtders needed for X-Mas Break to Conn
NEEDED 2 ndes to New Jersey tor Xmas a) k1ssed Leav1ng Dec 21 ·Call Kelly at 4432 FOUND CHARM from a charm bracelet 
break Can leave after 4p m Dec 22 W1ll b) 1umped share usual Call Pal or Mark at 1 059 c) m1ssed form of a gold mug. wtth plaque on front BOSTON BUS SIGN UPS MONDAY 7 pm 
reads·· BELLE VERNON PROM. 1982 LAFORTUNE BRING $50 NON Need nde lo BOSTON for break -can
DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO 
d) rock·lobstered PLEASE HELP' need nde to DC tor e) bucked 
see JIM 1n 216 Keenan.orcall meat 3274 REFUND DEP TOTAL PRICE $110. leave 9 pm Dec 18 -call L1sa 284-4111
MD/DC/VA CAN LEAVE 12/21 CALL 
LEAVES THE 22nd. 
TRISH AT SMC 4030 

X mass-after 4pm 12/2 t Maura X2244 f) antlered 
Love, RIDE NEEDED to West PA for XMAS on WERE YOU DRUNK AT 814 CORBY BOSTON BUS SIGNUPS MONDAY 7 at CAROL ANN DROBINSKE THIS MEANS 
Martha. Pepches. Preppa. 'You guys.

STAURDAY NIGHT?? If so. and you took WILSON DRIVEAWAY Cars to ma1or LAFORTUNE YOU! HAPPY 22ND BIRTHDAY · 
Wed 22 Call Stan 8317 

Cities 1n the east. south, and west You Wee, Howdy. and LoUJe 12/12/82 DOES THIS MEAN YOU NOW pay gas and tolls only (plus refundable my Levt s 1eans JaCket by acctdent 
PLEASE retur'l•t" SIZe 34. N D button on BOSTON BU5-STOPS IN ALBANY, WEIGH 22 LBS. INSTEAD OF 21? (HA.
RIDERS NEEDED TO NYC 
pockel and N Y G1ants key cha1n w1th depos1t) Call Bob at 233-6495 SPRINGFLD-BRING $50 MONDAY AT 7 HAl LOVE.
WESTCHESTER VIA RT 80 LEAVING 
Johnny Freshman. 

room keys 1n pocket The 1ackel I got 1s TO LAFORTUNE TOTAL-$11 0. JANARANAROUNDTHEBLOCK 
DEC.22 CALL WOOODY 277-0992 
You 1ust d1dn I seem to get the clue Its over! Mary F HUGE. and mme has great senttmental LOST A 14K gold lnsh wedd1ng nng HAPPY BIRTHDAY TERRI JENNINGS! I 

value plus I m freeZing Call 3564. 8051. (w/ hands. heart. and crown) Lost tt 1n the BOSTON BUS SIGNUPS MONDAY or 8055 PLEASE or drop 1n Lost & Found beg1nmng of the~chool year 1n the base­BRING$$ TO RESERVE SEAT-PRICE KNOW IT'S NOT TILL SUNDAY. SOA1de needed to Boston. preferably 
Manchester. N H over X-mas Call Dav1d at277-0593
ment bathroom of Holy Cross SMC It IS INCLUDES REFRESHMENTS AND A HAVE A GREAT WEEKEND AND FOUND: Pentax Camera Left tn car on RELAXING PARTY AFTER FINALS BIRTHDAY! LOVE. MRS. F 
extremely sentJn1enta1! Jf IO!Jnd. please Green F1eld a~er Call contact Rose--284-4455
a Football Game CALL 277·3276 IF??? 
THE SUZANNE LACROIX FUND

Tom at 1178 NYC NYC NYC NYC JAMES BRADFORD CROSS: HOW 
Thts poor gtrl IS so bent on teachtng me LOST 14K gold box chatn bracelet at Long Island Long Island Beware Sal nile .ROCK IS UP AND THE MANY KID-OS DO YOU HAVE? 
how to type why not help th1s poor

LOST Two wool scarfs · one brown and N D Sat n1ght (4th) at Grace or Morns­HELP' Need nde to NYC. Ll area for PERCUSSION SECTION IS mtsled young gal try to ach1eve some 
one brown and betge stnped Lost 1n dtf­Xmas Break Can leave 12-19. Will share LOOSE Merry x-mas everyone Here·s to Donnie Iris, the Police, the Cars, 
say If found please call Cmdy 284-4351 success 1n her hfe? Donate to the 
terent places Reward Call Elizabeth usual Please call Ann at SMC 4287 Dav1d Letterman. the Brew Crew. lhe
REWARD OFFEREO. 
Suzanne LaCroix-/ Want to be Mark

7220 PITTSBURGH CLUB CHRISTMAS Badgers. Glee Club. Shenanigans. Mon­
Miotto's Secretary fund She II love you

BREAK BUS SIGN-UPS day c1gars. Mad1son and 19. But best ofHELP GONE!' a pair of dtamond slud ear­NEEDED 2 ndes to New Jersey for Xmas Sunday Dec for II 
LOST Woven Platd lzo~ Scarf Lost on nngs and gold ear-cuffs REWARD' call break Can leave after 4p m Dec 22 W1ll 12 Lafortune Ltllle Theater at 7pm See all, heres 10 Tom Grantham on hts day! 12-5·82 It fauna please call 7884 Ceha2849 share usual Call Pat or Mark at 1 059 ad for dela1ls Happy B-day. Granny!' 
... 

-~ ~ ~ ----~------------~~--~-----.~------~ ...._.-~--~----~ -----~ 
The Observer Friday, December 10, 1982 -page 12 
... Stags 


Notre Dame (92) M FG-A FT-A R F 

p va:r~er 32 3-6 5-6 3 3 11 Ke•npton 33 10-13 6-8 9 5 26 Barlow 31 7-9 1-1 7 3 15 Paxson 37 7-11 2-2 2 2 16 Prrce 19 1·6 0-0 1 1 2 Buchanan 6 00 0-0 0 2 0 Slub.y 24 4-7 2-2 3 3 10 Dolan 3 0-0 2-2 2 0 2 An,jree 5 0-1 1-2 2 1 Duff 2 11 3-3 0 5 Rowan 4 1-3 0-0 0 2 Rucker 3 0-1 0-1 1 0 Love 1 0-0 2-2 1 0 2 200 34-58 24-29 31 23 92 
FG Pet 586 FT Pet 828 Team 

rebounds -3 Turn overs -1 2 Assrsts -17 
(Paxson 9) Tecnnrcals-None 
Halftrme-Notre Dame 37. Farrfreld 30 Offr­. crars Arch Werler. Errc Harmon . Ed Htghtower (All Brg Ten) A-10,260 
... Women 

continuedfrom page 16 
says DiStanislao. "And she'll try to drive. Their floor leader is Lori Gnat­kowski. The team will try to run, so it'll be another tempo game." 
Michigan's starting five is un­settled, as Coach Gloria Soluk is searching for a winning combina­tion. The word from Ann Arbor is that Soluk may start four freshmen along with Harte, as Lilly leads a group of five freshmen, four of whom are over 6-0. 
Freshman Wendy Bradetich is Michigan's third leading scorer (9.0 average) and the leading Wolverine on the boards, pulling down eight a game. Forwards Sandy Svoboda and Amy Rembisz may also be given starting shots. 
"They came back by turning the DePaul game (a 75-70 loss for U ofM that was a blowout early) into a track meet," says Mary D. "But they'll turn it over, like Western, and we can capitalize on it." 
The WMU game was an encourag­ing come-from-behind win on the road, another step for a young Irish team. This weekend's games with teams from the MAC and the Big Ten can be another. 
"This weekend's games are pretty evenly matched, especially with Miami," says Mary D. "But we want to cultivate a habit of winning the close games -we've still got a lotto learn." 

Jlnle 
Handcrafted Items Decorative Aaessories Artwork Toys Games Brass Crystal 
Dolls Pewter 
Holiday Hours 
Su'lday 1-5 Mon-Sat 10-9 
219-232-8488 
"Gifts that reflect your good taste_" 
Petoskey • Naples Lalolla • South Bend 
The East Ba"'k Emporium Buildi"'Q 
121 S. N1les Ave at Jefferson 

Steve Ely ( 19) rushes into last Friduy nixhf's hockeyfray to help out Irish teammate Rob Ricci (4), who was double-teamed by Michigan State's Roher/ Martin ( 1 1) and Ken Leiter ( 5). Notre Dame hopes to avoid scenes like this, hut hope to xain the same result, in this case a 3-2 ND u•in. (Photo by Scotrt Bower) 
'\IUI\.Il [.1-l'Hfc. '1-rU"'I '"'ll"f'" 
C()IWHIJNIICAIJII()N ;,_......__{J JlrUCAIJ~E 
,. lfll?IIIUA\~ lfiiiL~\ ~IEil?IIIE~ 
December :o Man of Marble (1977) Andrzet Wild)a Poland cor or 1 burn'" In Pol:sh Wi!'i EngliSh' subtitles L:Ke C;r,len Kane an ep•c mvest1gat1Un of a rr.an'<:. 11fe M•JfN& hJtiQ'IJ', a young f1tmmJker ~s snP. ur-.ravE!is tne •de o' Mateusz B•rkut goverr,rnrJrlt­created nero ol 1t1e 50s worKtng c1ass Acc•a•rr.ea oy Goaar~ ~'} tnt.! most s•grnf•cant ft'm •n the 1as1 f1ve year'} ~no by rJtner r ,,,,CC:. as ,... 'J most effect•ve y pol•t•cat film s•nce Z­
' Payment must be made in full at time of reservation '
Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum Admission 
& NO RllUNDS Questions call Brian-1743 ' & 
·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..-..•
~---lr~u ~ lltl31ti lr----sitiiiilll2·..,.oo__,. 
NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION 
PRESENTS 
SPRING BREAK INDAYTONA BEACH 
MARCH 11 • 20, 1983 
Arrangement! by 
ECHO TRA VEL, INC. 
MC15257JF 
N.D. 
! 
continuedfrom puxe ](, 
a capacity of ~.022 ...Walk-on Karl Lov.e sa\\ his tlrst action of the season and three seconds after h.: entered he was fouled. Love did not waste the opportunity, con,verting the one-and-one from tht: foul line ...Students cheered for Stag pinehoy Greg Schwartz to get into the gamt:. The 6-2 freshman from Birmingham (Mich.) Brother Rice High School ( tht: same school that produced Irish center Tim Andret:) failed to score in his two minutes of action but did haul down one 
reht>und to prompt a thunderous ovation. 
Yesterday's Results Notre Dame 92, Fairfield 70 
Fairfield (70) F p 

M FG-A FT-A  R  
Yerrna  '24  2-5  0-0  0  
Johnson  29  2-6  0-1  3  
DeBrsschop  36  6-12  4-6  7  
Hurl  38  5-6  6-8  3  
George  38  8-14  4-6  3  
0 Toole  5  0-1  2-3  3  
Leonard  11  0-1  1-2  1  
Cazzetta  2  0-1  1-2  0  
Schwartz  2  0-1  0-0  1  
Potter  3  0-1  0-0  0  
Byrne  5  3-5  0-0  2  
Golden  7  0-4  0-0  2  

4 4 4 1 16 3 16 2 20 3 2 2 1 0 1 2 0 1 0 0 6 2 0 
200 26-57 18-28 25 21 70 

FG Pet 456 FT Pet 643 Team rebounds -7 Turnovers -1 3 Assrsts -6 (George 3) Technrcals-None 
t-----~ittsburghClub-----~ 
f Si&n-ups for Christmas Break Bus ff Sunday, Dec. 12 at 7pm Larortune Little Theatre f & Buses will leave ND (CCI) and SIIC (Holy Cross) f 
' Tues., Dec. 21 at Spm
f Wed., Dec. 22 at Spm f & Buses will return to NDISMC from Pittsbur&h Greyhound Terminal & ' Mon., Jan. 10 at 1pm ' f Round Trip $ts One Way $29 f 
A rirst Come lirst Served A 
SIX PER ROOM 
$185 
FOUR PER ROOM 
$199 
TRIP INCLUDES 
• 
Round trip motor coach transportation via modern highway coaches to Daytona Beach, Florida leaving Friday, March II. 

• 
Seven nights accommodations at the exciting Plaza Hotel of 

Daytona Beach. located at 600 North Atlantic Ave., it is the . most demanded hotel on the strip at that time. 

• 
A truly great schedule of activities including our famowt pool deck parties and belly flop contest. 

• 
Optional excursions available to Disney World, Epcot, and several other attractions. 

• 
Numerous bar and restaurant discounts. 

• 
The services of full time travel representatives. 

• 
All taxes and gratuities. 


• 
Guaranteed kitchenette or oceanfront available at small additional charge. (4 per room only) 


A QUALJTYTRIP-ALOWPRICE-A GREATTIME 
The Plaz.a Hotel, located right in the middle of the strip, is definitely the place to be during spnng break. Ask anyone who has been to Daytona. The hotel has a pool, big party deck, restaurant. four bars, color TV. air conditioned rooms and plenty of activities. Pictures are available where you sign up. Our motor coaches are nothing but the highest quality highway coaches. We also give you more extras with our trip than anyone else. Don't blow it and go on a lower quality trip. LAST YEAR OJIER 8,000 PEOPLE ENJOYED THIS TRIP. 
SIGN UP NOW AT THE TICKET OFFICE/RECORD STORE MON.-FRI. 10 AM-4 PM OR CALL 239-5213 
t 


--------. 
I " 
1
The Observer Friday, December 10, 1982 page 13 
Ivyopponent ,..-G Big Green rolling into ACC I ~~srA 
llAIIT, cocKTAil lOUNGE SZECHUAN -WTONESE-AMERICAN 
By RICH O'CONNOR 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's win over a tough 
Fairfield team last night was another 
step in the right direction for Irish 
basketball. Notre Dame hopes to 
continue its progress as it plays host 
to an improved Dartmouth squad 
tomorrow afternoon at l :30 at the 
ACC. 
Two starters return from the Big 
Green's 7-19 team a year ago. That .may not seem like an improvement, but juniors Paul Anderson and Brian Burke learned much from the ex­perience. While Dartmouth's ex­pectations do not include·either a national or even an Ivy League championship, there has been 
progress. 
Anderson holds down the center spot for the Big Green and averages 13 points and six rebounds a game. He led the team in scoring, rebound­ing, and shot blocking last season. Anderson's total of 174 rebounds in 26 games also led the Ivy League ­although he is only 6-5. 
Burke, a 6-5 forward, averages 13 
points and five rebounds from his 
spot. 6-6 senior Matt Stewart also 
returns to inherit the remaining for­
ward slot. Stewart is averaging 12 
points and six rebounds a game for 
Dartmouth. 
With backcourt players Taylor 
Conlan and Derek Sells, both sopho­
mores, rounding out Dartmouth's 
starting five, the Big Green shows 
signs of breaking their string of 
losing seasons at three -and 
searching for only their fifth winning 
season in the last 20 years. 
The improvement is already 
noticeable. Dartmouth comes to the 
ACC with a 2-0 record after wins 
over Bowdoin (81-56) and Harvard 
Dartmouth placed 13 players in the 
scoring column, with three in 
double figures. The victory over 
Harvard was the first for the Big 
Green over the Crimson since 1979, 
and they did it from the foul line. 
Dartmouth converted on 17 of 18 at­
tempts. Last season Harvard 
defeated Dartmouth, 80-64. 
The main difference is the play of 
their bench. In their two games this 
year. Big Green coach Tim Cohane 
played 14 people in one game, and 
10 in the other. Senior captain Steve 
McNamara, sophomore Aaron Hill 
and a nine-player freshmen class are 
among the major contributors. 
"Overall. the team will be im­
proved in all areas from last season," 
says Cohane. "We feel we've had 
three recruiting clas,es in the past three years that -if combined ­match up with the top four in the Ivy League. Now we need one more year of development and recruiting to move into the first division. 
"We're very excited about playing Notre Dame. It'll be a good ex­perience for the kids. We have ab­solutely nothing to lose by going there to play." 
While no one will mistake Dartmouth for an Indiana, a Ken­tucky or a UCLA, the game will be a test for Notre Dame's freshmen to see how well they've learned the les­sons of the past week. 
"The freshmen learned that they can play with the best college bas­ketball has to offer," says Irish coach Digger Phelps. "Now we'll use what we learned to make us a better bas­ketball team. 
In Dartmouth's first action since the completion of final exams, Phelps should have the opportunity to play most of his 13-man squad. 
"We're still experimenting with some things at this stage of the season," says Phelps, "but more than anything we're trying to get the freshmen comfortable with their roles and feeling comfortable assert­ing themselves when they're on the court. 
"These guys have talent, and these early games tell them and tell us as coaches where they stand, and where they need work. We also hope that having some success will give them. the confidence to go out and play on a consistent basis." 
After tomorrow's game, the Irish will take ten days off for their own finals. Their season resumes Wed., Dec. 22 against Valparaiso. 
CHUCK WHITE 
* *
At The Piano Bar 
See Chuck every Wed. Fri, & Sat. 

~:OU p.m.-1:00 >&.m .....Enjo) l.il'~! 
•Dancing• Drinks• Dinoer 
•lfnspilaliJ~ • R~asnnab.\e Price, 

Lunch Special $1.99 to $4.25 
Dinner Specials: Beef Liver $2.95 Pork Fried Noodles $3.00 Pork Egg Foo-yung $3.25 
"The Rest Chi'nese Food i'uu '•eEver i iud · 
HOURS: OPEN 7 DAYS MvnThur 11 3Qam·10·00pm A WEEK "n. & Sat. 11:30 a.m -11:00 p.m. Sun. & Hol1days 4 p.m.-9:00p.m. 
130 DIXIE HWY. SOUTH Happy Hnur 5 7 P M SOUTH BEND(Roseland) 
ilr.NQUET ROOMS & Kext to Randall's Inn GROUP RATES 'VAILABLE 
..... 


PARAMOUNT PICTURts PRESENTS AHOWARD WKOCH PRODUCTION AIRPLANE II: THE SEQUEL· ROBERT HAYS JUliE HAGERTY ·llOYD BRIDGES ·CHAO EVERETT· WilliAM SHATNER ·DIRECTOR 0~ PHOTOGRAPHY JOE BIROC. A.S.C. PRODUCED BY HOWARD WKOCH· WRITTEN AND DIRECTED BY KEN ~INK~f~AN,·A,~A~~~-~c~~Ifmi~~~:ft:
PG PMEtml. GUIIANCE SUGGESTED@­ :.  'I . ~  .:  
SOME MATERIAL MAY NOT BE SUITABLE FOR CHILDREN 1  ""';.:..:::'"  "  
Opens Decer.nber lOth at a theatre nearyou.  


~---------~--­
The Observer Friday, December 10, 1982 -page 14 
t 

Irish defenseman Stel'e E~r. here cranking up a sbot jhnn the point, will try to play despite injuries in this u•eekend's series againts Ohio State. See Stel'e Labate's storr at right. (Photo by Paul Cifarelli) 
Hockey weekend 
Ely leads fracturE~d defense 
By STEVE LABATE 
.~jJOrls Writer 
!\lotre Dam~: sophomore ddl:n­seman Stl'Vt: Ely has had more than his share of mistiJrtunt: sinn: arriv­ing from his hom~:town in Woodbridge, Ontario to play hock­ey t(Jr tht: Irish. 
First he had to sit out the second half of last s<:ason because he was 
academically ineligible.  
Then  he  injured  hh  knee  in  
Chicago  this  ~cason  in  a  game  
against Illinois-Chicago.  

!\low, aftt:r two fine pert(mnances against .\1ichigan State, he has come down with a viral infection that has set him hack once again. 
What docs Ely think of his streak of had luck? "I can't believe it," he commcntt:d. "I'm going to try and play Friday (tonight), and if I can't, I'll be ready Saturday. I've hccn sleeping all wt:ek." 
Coach Lefty Smith isn't as optimis­

tic. According to Lefty, Ely is out t(Jr 
tonight's game and has a "'5 percent 
chance of suiting up tomorrow. 
Smith expects a physical series this 
weekend as the Irish play host to the 
Buckeyes of Ohio State. If he plays. 
Ely ( 6-2, 205 pounds) could he a sig­
nitkant factor in the series. 

Coach Smith lamented, "Steve being out could hamper us. We hope that it (Ely not playing) doesn't have a damning eftcct on us." These 
When the party is BYOB (BringYour Own Brush), you find outwho yourfriends are. 
Friends aren't hard to find when you're out to share agood time. But the crowd sure thins out when there's work to do. And the ones who stick around deserve something special. 
Tonight, let it be LOwenbrau. 
,... 
.. 
f r 
~:: 
words may sound somewhat strange when you consider that Steve Ely has not scored a goal or assisted on one so far this season. What is it then that adds to the team that makes him so valuable.' 
"He's very physical, very en­thusiastic. and it ruhs oft· on the team," commented Smith. "With his size and strength he provides us with muscle hack there (on defense)." 
Although he has only come as of late:, Ely will hl' the t1rst to tell you that his play is the result of hard work and hustle. The second semes­ter ineligibility was a real set hack for him hecau!>e he was not allowed to skate with the team. "Yeah, I've been very pleased with my progress. .\1y contldence is very high right now," remarked Steve. "I don't feel that I've reached my peak though. there's a long way to go. 
Ely showed just how t:tr he has come last Saturday afternoon against MSU in the third period of a game already decided. It was then that he played like a man possessed. He hit everything in a green uniform. But don't call Steve an enforcer. "I don't like the word enforcer, maybe a motivator is more like it." Ely con­tinued, ''I'm just a friend of my goalie." 
Ely's hest performance came on a weekend in which the Irish Hockey team appeared to come into its own. At least Lefty Smith is inclined to think that way. "Their enthusiasm and work ethic has really been ex­cellent this week in practice. Their spirit has been the best the best its been since the beginning of the season." 
They will need excellent perfor­mances again this weekend if they are to sweep Ohio State. Coach Smith assessed the Buckeyes, "Ohio State is an excellent club. They beat and tied Bowling Green, so that should give you an idea ofhow good they are. They have an excellent goaltender (John Dougan, 2.90 goals against) and are strong up front. I ex­pect it to be a very difficult series." 
The Buckeyes are coming off a win and a tie against Northern Mich­igan, and are 6-4-2 in CCHA play (5th place).juniors Dave Kobryn (7 goals, 2 3 assists), Andy Browne ( 7 goals, 16 assists), and twin brothers, Paul and Perry Pooley ( 16 and 20 points respectively) will lead the Ohio State offensive attack. 
Trying to keep the puck out ofthe net for the Irish will be senior goalie Bob McNamara, who returns to ac­tion after missing the MSU series with a concusion. On defense, Rex Bellomy will shift from hi!> normal center spot to defenseman should Ely sit out. 
However the Irish could certainly use a strong body like Ely's this weekend. His presence gives the whole team more cont1dence on the ice. Ely admits, "I think they (his tt:ammates) enjoy seeing me out on the ice. I suspect Iwill see a lot ofice time." 
Ely served warning to the Buckeyes by concluding, "Never mind the infection, I'll be ready and it will be physical." 
The opening face-off will be 8 p.m. at the Athletic and Convocation Center. 
CENTRAL COLLEGIATE HOCKEY ASSOCIATION 

w  L  T  GF  GA  Pet  
Bowling Green  11  2  1  99  55  821  
M1ch1gan Stale  11  3  0  57  28  786  
Mtchtgan Tech  9  5  0  69  62  643  
Northern M1Ch1gan  7  4  3  55  51  607  
Oh1oState  6  4  2  47  43  583  
Mtamt  6  7. 1  56  53  454  
Lake Supenor State  5  7  0  49  49  417  
Western Mtchtgan  5  7  0  47  49  417  
lllino•s-Ch•cago  5  9  0  41  58  357  
Notre Dame  4  10  0  49  83  .286  
Mtchtgan  4  10  0  62  88  286  
Ferns State  3  8  1  44  56  292  
This w..kend's Series  
Oh1o State at Notre Dame  
Bowling Green at Mtamt  
Ferns State at M1ch1gan  
llt•nols·Ch•cago at Western M•ch•gan  
Lake SuperiOr State at Northern M1chogan  
Minnesota·Duluth at Moch1gan Tech  






~---------~--------~-------------~----~-----------~---~---­
"Ihe,=-Observer==================== 
Friday, December 10, 1982 -page 15
Weekend 
Doonesbut 

WHAT'S THIS ? .. You ~Nit ctitr ?! ? 
CNijEflRLEs SIUJL1Z 
YER Qulr. 

WHAT ARE YOU ? 
SOME KIN[) DF ' ~DfMJf!?.(1 
Garry Trudeau 

Jeb Cashin 
(sqiH) 
c~qiff) 



Fate 
Photius 
Campus 
•1 
:30 p.m. -Lecture, "The Later Sartre," Prof. William McBride, 600 Memorial Library. 

• 
3:15 p.m. -Workshop,"An Overview of Social Security," Prof jennifer Warlik, 331 O'Shaughnessy. 

•3:.30 
p.m. --Philosophy Colloquium, "The Socratic Simonides .of Plato's Protagoras," Prof Tom Flint, Library Lounge. 

•4:;W 
p.m. -Reilly Chemistry Lecture, "Cloning and Structure of Plasma Proteins In· valved in Blood Coagulation and Fibrinolysis," Prof. Earl W. Davit:, 123 ~ieuwland Science. 

•5:15 
p.m.-Mass for Human Rights, Fr. Claude Pamerlear, Sacred Heart Church. 

•5: 
15 p.m. -Mass and Supper, Bulla Shed, Sponsored by Campus Ministry. 


•~. and 10 p.m. -Film, "Excaliber." Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Women's Track and Cross Country, s l. •-:.30 p.m. -Hockey, NO vs. Ohio State, Fieldhouse. 
•~:30 
and I 0 p.m. -Film, "Ragtime," Carroll Hall, Sponsored by SAPB. 

•"7:.30 
p.m. -Basketball, ND Women vs. Miami (Ohio). ACC Arena. 

•"7:.30 
p.m. -Friday Night Film Series, "Man of Marble." Annenberg Auditorium. S2. 

•8 
p.m. -Variety Show, O'Laughlin Auditorium. 

•8 
p.m. -Christmas Show, Rock in Retrospect, Jack Briganti, Sue O'Reilly, WSND·AM 64. 

•8:15 
p.m. Concert, Notre Dame Chorale, Wash­ington Hall. 

•9 
p.m. -NAZZ, Open Stage. 

•1 
:30 p.m. ­ACC Arena. 

• 
., p.m. ­Auditorium. 

•8:15 
p.m. ­Hall. 

•9:30 
p.m. ­

• 
3:.30 p.m. ­



Meeting, Keenan Conference. 
•8 
p.m. -SMC Music Dept. Students Concert, Festival of Lessons and Carols, Church of Loretto. 

•8:15 
p.m. -Graduate Organ Recital, Deborah McComas, Sacred Heart Church. 

•Midnite-AllJazz 
Show, WSND·FM 88.9 


· T.V. Tonight 
7:30p.m. 
8p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10p.m. 
llp.m. 
11:30p.m. 

Saturday, Dec. 11 Basetball, NO Men vs. Dartmouth, Film, "The Assassin," Library Concert, jazz Band , Washington NAZZ, Christmas NAZZ. 
Sunday, Dec. 12 Students Against Drunk Drivers 
16 All in the Family 
22 Family Feud 
28 Tic Tac Dough 
34 Straight Talk 
16 The Powers of Mathew Star 
22 Dukes of Hazzard 
28 Benson 
34 Washington Week in Review 
28 The New Odd Couple 
34 Wall Street Week 
16 Knight Rider 
22 Dallas 
28 Solid Gold Christmas Special 
34 Inside Business Today 
34 Religion and Social Issues 
16 Remington Steele 
22 Falcon Crest 
28 The Quest 
16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 
34 The Dick Cavett Show 
16 Tonight Show 22 C. B.S. Late Movie 
28 ABC News Nightline 
.. 

I 
'~ 
-~ 
'I I 
~ 

·-· 
62 Needle case 
63 With44A, star of "Shane" 
64 Watergate name 65 Indigence 
DOWN 1 Radiate 2 Ready for 
plucking 3 Poker stake 4 Enjoy Aspen 5 Worked with 
clay 6 Spartan slave 7 In thecen· 
terof 8 Lacetype 9 Building 
extension 10 Follow 11 Wreaths 12 Italy's 
shape 13 A.D. word 18 City on.the 
Ome 19 Less comely 


30 Useda stopwatch 31 Antilles island 32 Farfrom tidy 34 Stage whisper 37 Noted nymphet 38 Arrow 
poison 39 Miss Ferber 45 Shiny 
fabric 46 Resembling: 
suff. 47 Enlarge 48 Arrive 49 Egyptian 
skink 50 Fleece 51 Taj Mahai 
locale 52 Tunisian 
port 53 Jot 54 Proper word 55 Make 
sweaters 57 Yang's 14 Part of a reared by 


chain awolf 15 Of blood 40 Palindromic 16 Garish preposition 
light 41 Think 17 Mirage, 42 Socialist 
perhaps Eugene 20 Tiny 43 "-Rosen· 21 Footless kavalier" 22 Verve 44 See 63A 23 Proper 45 Weekend 24 Seagirt part 
land 47 Sage 26 Scale 48 Celebration 29 -Brith 49 Expect 30 Highland 52 Bristle 
headwear 53 Sign 
Thursday's Solution 
~ 
-............------.........-------~---------~~----~-~------~----~---~-----~-­
-~------~--­

I 
I 
i 
I 
' 
Fairfield center Pete DeBisschop "I didn't want our kids to play
ByWILLHARE 
was encouraging the "drive for tlve" flat," said Phelps. "So, I really had to
t 
Sports Writer 
J as his team took its pregame warm· get into the game. The students also ups seeking its fifth win without a did a great job tonight."
I It was back to busine~~ for the 
loss. The Stags were coming off one Kempton also did a decent job on
Notre Dame basketball team last 
of the biggest wins in the school's DeBisschop, the Stag leading scorer
night, as the Irish stormed past Fair­
' history when they beat Connecticut who is averaging 20 points a game.
field University, 92-70. 
' on the road, 99·81, Tuesday night. After scoring 12 points in the first
After three consecutive losses to 

But it was not to be for Coach Ter­half, DeBisschop managed only one
teams ranked among the top five in 
ry O'Connor's youthful team, now 4-field goal in the second half.
the n.ttion. it was a chance to leave 
I 1. Freshman guard Tony George "Our defense was sloppy against
the national spotlight and get back 
I 
drilled 8 of 14 shots· for a team-high him in the first half," said Kempton.
to using fundamentals to win a bas· 
20 points for the losers. "Coach just wanted me to play him
ketball game. 
"We were as we tougher in the second half. He's
Digger Phelps' gameplan of not bad as a 
looked," assured O'Connor. "We good player."
working the ball inside to hb young 
were intimidated early in the game. "Kempton i~ a very good player
frontliners to exploit a ies; physical 
"Tony George played well. He right now," said DeBbschop. ''He is
Stag team was executed well in the 
didn't care it was South Bend, In­agile and has very good moves.
first half as the Irish built a .3 7-50 
diana, but I think hearing the fight Notre Dame took control of the
edge by halftime. 
song and playing in SoL1th Bend in­game from thc l't:ry beginning be·
Freshmen Ken Barlow and Tim 

timidated the other guys." cause they were getting the ball in
Kempton combined to make I0 of 
For Notre Dame, John Paxson lo\\ ."
their first 12 shots in the opening 
scored 16 while Barlow added l 5. Kempton's nine rcbounds also
stanza. Kempton led all st.·orers with 
After the Irish scored the tlrst were tops for the game. Barlow con·
26 points. tallying I;in the tlrst half. 
three baskets of the game, Fairfield tributed seven boards. and also
"Our guards were looking to get 

never got closer than four points. made seven of nine shots from the
the ball inside early," said Kempton, 
Notre Dame, with its best fast break floor, a nifty mrnaround from his
"so we could get the hall back 
execution of the season, opened a two-of-nine .,howing against In­
outside for shot~ later in thc game." 
22-12 lead with 12 minutes to go in diana.
One ofthe keys in the Irish ddeah 

the first half on a Tom Sluhy layup .. What we need now b a streak of
was the letdown in the beginning of 
following a Paxson steaL wins and then heat somebody who is
each second half. That was obvious· 
Kempton's driving sl~m dunk ranked," stn:s~ed Phelps. "After that, 
ly corrected last night as Notre 
capped off an impressivt· ten·p<Jint the~e kids will take off. in tern•s of
Dame outscored its opponents 12·2 
rally, giving the Irish a '19·:'>2 lead confidence."
in the first tlve minutes ofthe second 
and bringing the crowd to its feet. IRISH ITEMS -Kempton's 26half. 
Notre Dame opened the lead LO 61· points were the mo~t for a l\otre -!I with 1 I :08 rcmaining on a Sluhy Dame freshman -•nn· Adrian breakaway jam following a length of Dantley scored 11 .•.gainst 'X'est \'ir­the court pa.'~ from Kempton. gima in 19""·1 ...The Irish are now 
Sluby, who is quickly becoming a 3·0 in the all-time '-cries with Fair­defensive standout, contributed l 0 field. Two st·asons ago. the Stags
Women begin weekend with Miami 
point~ off the bench. took the 23-6 Irish to the. wire, 
"If he can get healthy," said losing '57-'55 at the ACC. This was By MIKE RICCARDI in Miami's last game and is averaging player will team offensively with Phelps, "Sluhy will do a good job." the second garm of a ridiculous Sports Writer ten a game. She will go along with Sluby i~ still hampered by a stress seven-game road trip for Fairfield.
freshman Orethia Lilly, who will get fracture in his fo1Jt, hut probably will After a Saturday afternoon date with
6·1 senior Cindy Gibson while 5-l0 her tlrst start against the Irish after The Notre Dame women's basket­sophomore Arlethia Porter seeing scoring 21 against Cleveland State keep playing until it heals. St. .Joseph's ( Pa. ). the Stags travel to ball team, rolling toward the finals action. Phelps, barking at his young Hofstra. Boston College, \1aine and
Wed:1esday.break with a three-game winning Center Tonya Stubbs has come on players violently all night, exhibited Vermont. Fairfi t dd's Alumni Hall has 
"They'll look to post up Harte," strak, plays a pair of difficult Mid­of late, averaging nine points and a great concern for a team letdown west opponents this weekend in pulling down six hoards a game. Deb See WOMEN, page 12 for Fairfield. See STAGS, page 12 Miami University of Ohio and the Grushon, a 6-'i senior, will back up University of Michigan. Stubbs. Tonight's game with :VIiami, set "Mallender is a very experienced for 7:30, marks the ACC debut of player, and she is complemented by Trena Keys, the 6-1 freshman some good athletes," says DiStanis­phenom. Keys, who sprained an lao. "Livingston and Cooley are good 
ankle in the Rutgers game at the perimeter shooters and Stubbs is 
Rosemont Horizon two weeks ago, tough on the boards and gets points 
came back in Wednesday's victory at from offensive rebounds.'' 
Western Michigan. The heralded The Redskins, defending cham­
freshman from :\!arion (Ind.) High pioP.s of the Mid-American Con· 
School, which sent joseph Price to ference and in last year's AlAW final 
the men's team, will be the first for­eight, are coming off a 24-9 season. 
ward off the bench for now. Keys "Miami is a good team -very 
scored eight points in 1.3 minutes in respected in the Midwest-and un­
her return to action against Western._ derrated nationally," ~ays Mary D. 
"Trena is a very talented lady," "They're just a consistently good says Coach Mary DiStanislao. "And team." with a little experience, she can be a Last season, the Irish women franchise player." travelled to Oxford, Ohio, riding the 
For now, though, Keys will gain crest of a 10-game winning streak, that experience playing behind Ruth only to find themselves on the short Kaiser and Shari Matvey in the Irish end of a 65-61 verdict. It was Notre 
frontcourt. Dame's second loss in as many Miami's strong point, however, is games in the all-time series with in their backcourt. The Redskins' Miami. star is 5·11 sophomore guard Linda "They came at us aggressively," 
Millender, who leads the scoring says DiStanislao. "Their bread and charts with 20 points per game in butter is tough man-to-man defense, Miami's first four games and is the and they have athletes who'll chal­
'Skins second leading rebounder. lenge you." She keyed her team's opening win This evening's game will be a over Morehead State with a 30-point rarity-both teams will use man-to· performance. man defenses to neutralize each 
"They'll try all night to get her the other's bombers. The 'Skins' ball," says DiStanislao. "She's strong strength is on the perimeter with and quick and a very good shooter." Mallender and Livingston while 
Mallender's usual backcourt mate, Notre Dame's leading scorers thus 5-9 senior Kris Livingston ( 11 ppg) far have been sharpshooting guards missed the Redskins last game, a 77-Lynn Ebben and Laura Dougherty. 71 loss to Dayton. She may not start The Irish will travef to Ann Arbor 
l .. 

Freshman scores 26 
Kem.pton busts out, ND rom.ps 
tonight, but she is expected to get Sunday afternoon to face 0-4 Michi­
7-4 Ralph Sampson (left) of No. 1 Virginia and ......() Patrick
significant playing time. Dana gan, which is coming off a dis· 
Ralph, 

Ewing (rigbt) of No. 3 Georgetouon will lead their undefeated
Calkins, a 6-0 sophomore, should be heartening '1-68 loss to Cleveland 
teams in college basketball's most heralded matchttp smce Hayes
the starting point guard. State. 
vs. Alcindor. To see the IJattle, which will be played tomorrow at 8
meet

Miami is very deep up front and The Wolverines are keyed by 
pm at the Capital Center in Landover, Md., you'll ha/le to go off
will use five players at the front line sophomore Peg Harte, who has 
campus, since Ted Turner's cable superstation, WTBS Atlanta out­
positions during tonight's game. For· averaged 24 points a game, leads the 
Patrick 

bidNBC and CBSfor the TV rights. (.-tP Photos)
ward Amy Cooley rang up I 7 points U of M scoring charts. The 5-8 swing 






