'Reagan Herod' -page 7
' ' ' 

VOL. XVI, NO. 121 TUESDAY, MARCH 30, 1982
the llltkpcmknt ~tuJent IH:w~papcr ~t:rving notre Jamc and ~aint mary·~ 
Highwinds postpone space shuttle landing 
we kind of agree with your decisionWHITE SAND MISSILE RANGE, for today." 
N.M. (AP) -Columbia, diverted Capcom Brewster Shaw replied:from landing and still in orbit, will "The vis (visibility) on the surface istry again today in a suspenseful about zero. The la.'it gust report wethird-flight finale that could force got was 48 knots," a vigorous 55the shuttle to bypass sandblown mph.
Northrup Strip and return non-stop· Columbia wa.'i less than an hourto l'lorida. 
and a half from its landing -andThe runway there: IS,OOO feet of minutes from firing its engines tonmcrete surrounded by a moat. 
leave orbit -when the decision wasColumbia ha.~ nevc:r made a made.
pavt·d-runway landing, hut the al­
John Young, commander on the
ternative is another try at wind­first space shullle, flew a wind­whipped Northrup, and NASA 
testing mission and reported he
ollkial~ were pe~~imistic that condi­
couldn't see the end of the runway.
tions would improve. 
first he recommended a shift in run­In ~pace, I-II miles above Earth, ways, then said:
aMronaut~ jack R. Lousma and C. "I think we ought to knock this
(iordon fullerton, were in line fettle ott:"with plenty of food, fuel and power. 
"OK, John, we copy and we con­"Sorry about that," Mission C­cur," said Mission Control. 
trol said about the scrub. 
"Sorry, about that, guys," Young"That's the breaks of space, I replied.
guess," said Lousma. 
The astronauts were out of radioIt was the first time in 20 years of range at the time. They were told aspace flight that a landing was few minutes later, at 11:02 a.m. They
scrubbed. Kennedy Space Center, at Major Roberto D'Abuisson gets his ballot to Cape Canaveral, is NASA's third­See SHUTILE, page 4 vote in Sunday's election in El Salvador. choice for Flight 3. The main runway In California is waterlogged and out ofservice. 
Voters turn out 
Equipment at Nortrhup Strip, hastily assembled to handle a shuttle landing, may have sufferrd some 


Guerrillasloseinconclusive Salvadoranelection 
damage from the winds hut the gusts still were too strong to make an as­SAN SALVADOR (AP) -The There were winners and losers in In terms of military position and ing government identity cards, the sc:ssment at midday. centrist Christian Democrats and El Salvador's elections, but the big­tactics, the guerrillas are probably in only document required of Sal­
Alex Paczynski, a NASA official at their extreme-right challengers, gest apparent losers, the guerrillas, better shape than they were a year vadorans wishing to vote. Then on 

White Sands, said an opportunity to land at Northrup at 7::H a.m. on the: 12Hth orbit "looks like the prt:ferred target. That would give us ample: time to look at the runways, assess the damage ami repair tht·m if they are repairable." 
At the scheduled timt· of landing yt·sterday, as they passt:d over New ~exico, Lou~ma said "It's pretty gu!>ly looking down thert·... l guess both falling short of a majority in El Salvador's election, scrambled for coalition partners yesterday to govern the war-weary country. 
Seventy miles southea.~t of here, leftist guerrillas pressed their bloody ~ic:ge of the city of Usulutan, in one of the biggt•st attacks of the 2-year-old conllict. At leaM h>ur sol­diers were reported killed yester­day. 
Murday praises Senate, announces office audit 
By CAROL CAMP 
StaffReporter 
Presiding over his final Student Senate meeting last night, Student Body President Don Murday praised Senate members for the work that they have done during the past year. 
Murday, scheduled to leave office April 1, complimented his col­leagues by saying "we are really the first Senate member!> who tried to give the Senate some function." 
Murday also wished new Senators and officers the "best ofluck" in the coming year, and presented flowers to each ofthe female Senate members. 
Agenda items included a discussion of the manner in which money is currently allocated for class activities. 
In order to supplement the funds which they annually receive from the Oftke ofStudent Activities, t~e class presidents proposed the establishment of a one-dollar class tax to finance events. After presenting their proposal to Fr. John Van Wolvlear class presidents are now formulating a list of reasons as to why they feel they need additional funds. Vpon completion, this list will be presented to the new Budget Committee and class officers. 
The Budget Committee will meet before May 1 in order to con­sider the recommendations that it receives. Junior class president Julian Rowe emphasized the proposal's imponance by noting "there ha.~ been great enthusiasm expressed this year for class activities." 
It was also announced that the Student Government Treasurer's office will he audited next fall by the Office of Business Aftairs in order to "look for weaknesses and areas needing improvement." 
~urday offered to "pass the gavel" to his successor, president­elect Lloyd Burke -but Burke did not attend the meeting. When questioned about Burke's whereabouts, Vice-President Yonchak offered no comment. 
were not even running. ago. Although intelligence Sunday the guerrilla.~ stepped up at­
Despite guerrilla pleas, attacks specialists say their numbers have tacks in much of the country. and death threats intended to stop remained at about 5,000 armed and Despite this, the turnout wa.'i lar­the voting for a 60-member con­trained fighters, they have effective­ger than any in recent memory here, 
stituent assembly, voters turned out ly cut the country in two and are Salvadorans said, although official by the hundreds of thousands Sun­giving government forces all they figures were not immediately day, number~ so surprisingly large can handle, especially in stron­available. Thousands of voters even that some precincts had to send for gholds in the east. braved nearby fighting to stand in more ballots or open other polling But if the elections are an ex­line tor hours and elect the assemb­stations to handle the crowds. ample, their sway over public ly, which will write a new constitu­
It was the second time Sal­opinion has failed to increase since tion and name an interim vadorans had given what appeared the offensive of 1981. government. to be a wholesale repudiation of a The leftists, who were boycotting Some people waiting in the long 
guerrilla appeal for mass action. the election, broadcast appeals over queues admitted they were voting 
In January 19H I, the leftist insur­clandestine radio against voting and only to get the government stamp gents called for popular uprisings as stopped vehicles on highways simp· on their identity cards, to avoid they launched a "final offensive" ly to a.'ik occupants not to vote. being labeled "subversive" later. But against the V.S.-backed civilian­They resorted to rougher tactics preliminary returns indicated there military junta. But the Salvadorar as well, such as burning buses that were relatively few blank or spoiled people did not heed the guerrillas' would take voters to the polls, ballots -a traditional torm of elec­call, and the rebels took a severe attacking city halls where electoral 
See VOTE, page 4
beating. records might be kept and confiscat-

Assassin 
Oneyearlater, Hinckley awaitstrial 
By LARRY MARGASAK. 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON (AP) -One year ago John W. Hinckley Jr. was captured, gun in hand, in what ap­peared to be an open-and-shut case of a would-be presidential assassin. 
Why then, is this 26-year-old, one-time drifter who 
almost killed a president to gain the attention of film 
starjodie foster still in a military stockade awaiting tri­
al? 
It isn't an easy TUESDAYI:Rm"W case, even though the only issue is Hinckley's sanity at the time he shot President Reagan and three other men on March 30, 1981. 

Government and defense psychiatrists spent four months probing Hinckley's mind so they could form opinions on his criminal responsibility for the shoot­ings. 
Lawyers for both sides have spent half a year arguing 
over complex constitutional issues that caused an in­
definite postponement ofthe trial in V.S. District Coun. 
No trial date has been set. 
The wheels of justice have turned slowly in criminal 
case 81-306. 
Some legal expens say the wait is necessary. They say 
time is needed, both to safeguard Hinckley's constitu­
tional rights and to give the government the oppor­
tunity to bring its best evidence to trial. 
"Ifall the efforts had been to ramrod the case through 
in 60 days, I would have been troubled," said BJ. 
GeorgeJr., a professor at the New York Law School. 
Added American Bar Association staff member 
Richard Lynch: 
"Everyone involved had tried to see to it that Mr. 
Hinckley is most adequately protected, that his rights 
are being pursued. Everybody is being extremely care­
ful and that explains pan ofthe delay." 
Hinckley's father, John W. Hinckley Sr., wishes his son would be tried soon. In an interview published Sunday in the (Denver) Rocky Mountain News, the Denver oilman said he wa.'i 
See HINCKLEY, page 4 


Tuesday, March 30,1982 -page 2 



ewsBrie/§ 
By The Observer and The Associated Press. 
"Chariots ofFire"received the Best Picture award at the 54th Academy Awards last night. Henry Fonda won the Best Actor award and Katherine Hepburn Best Actress for their respective performances in the film "On Golden Pond". Maureen Stapleton received the Best Supporting Actress award for her perfor­mance in the film "Reds", and SirJohn Gielgud won Best Supporting Actor for his performance in "Arthur". Warren Beatty won the Best Director Award for the film "Reds". -The Observer 
Five Miami Cuban stowaways will be deported be­cause the government has rejected their applications for politcal asylum, immigration officials said yesterday. One stowaway, Marta Linares Castaneda, is married to a legal U.S. resident and will be allowed to return after going through proper channels, Immigration and Naturalization Service officials said. All five came from third countries, a:nd none established a well-founded fear ofpersecution if they were returned, said Joe Howerton, INS district director in Miami. Three had been living in Venezuela, and the others came 
from Costa Rica Arrangements for their departures will not be made public, Howerton said. -AP 
Phillipine President Ferdinand E. Marcos will press for an early renegotiation ofthe U.S.-Philippines military bases treaty to remove "inequities and irritants," the presidential palace said yesterday in a statement. Secretary of Defense Caspar W. Wein­berger is to arrive in Manila Thursday for talks on security matters. The statement said that while the 1979 amendments to the bases treaty gave the Philippines sole authorty over security around the bases, there had been actions by U.S. soldiers which led to "irritants.'' Last February, a 19-year-old Filipino died inside the Subic Bay Naval Base. Navy authorities said the youth died when he fell accidentally into a ravine, but the mayor of Olongapo town, where the base is located, said two witnesses claimed they saw a U.S. Marine push the boy into the ravine. -AP 
The Palestine Liberation Organization 
diplomatic representative here thanked Greece yesterday for 
condemning the Israeli crackdown in the occupied West Bankofthe 
Jordan River. Shawkri Armali, who heads the PLO diplomatic mis­
sion in Athens, said at a news conference, "We appreciate the stance 
of the Greek government, which should be followed by all other 
European countries." Greece's Socialist government Saturday con­
demned what it called "acts of violence by Israeli forces" on the 
West Bank. Since coming to power last Octob t er, Greek Premier 
Andreas Papandreou has upgraded the PLO office in Athens to 
diplomatic status and welcomed PLO leader Yasser Arafat as an offi­
cial guest, as part of Greece's policy to broaden relations with the 
Arab world. -AP 

Argentine Foreign Minister Nicanor cosi:a 
Mendez delivered a note to the British ambassador over the weekend and said relations between the two countries remain "tense and serious" over a territorial dispute in the South Atlantic. A March 19 landing byabout 40 ArgentinesonSan Pedro, the largestof the South Georgia Islands, fanned a 150-year-old argument between the two countries. Argentina claims the islands were forcibly taken by the British in 1833. The British demanded that the Argentines be removed from the islands, but Argentina refused. Both countries have sent support vessels to the area, Argentine newspapers said. Costa Mendez refused to reveal the contents ofthe note delivered to the British on Sunday, but said his government was waiting for a reply. -AP 
Com.poser-pianist Eubie Blake returned to 
his native city of Baltimore yesterday as that city proclaimed that a jazz festival will be held in his honor in August. The 99-year-old ragtime pianist began his musical career in a Baltimore pool hall. Among his best known compositions are "I'm Just Wild About Har­ry" and "Love Will Find A Way." Mayor William Donald Schaefer said the three-day jazz festival will begin Aug. 13 and will be produced by · George Wein, founder ofthe Newport Jazz Festival. The event will feature performances by Dizzy Gillespie, Lionel Hampton, Gerry Mulligan,Joe Williams, Mel Torme and Clark Terry .,.... AP 
Singe: Helen Reddy, producers Norman k'a:; and James Komak and former congresswoman Bella Abzug helped 
Wallace Albertson kick off her campaign for the Legislature at a 
celebrity cocktail party. The 57-year-old widow of actor JackAl­
bertson seeks the Democratic nomination for the 45th Assembly 
District, the seat Herschel Rosenthal is vacating to run for state 
Senate. Composer Harry Nilsson played host at the fund-ra iser Satur­
day, which also drew former Carter aide Midge Costanza and gay 
rights leader Morris Kight. Albertson, president of the Los Angeles 
Community College Board ofTrustees, is running against Burt Mar­
golin, 31, chiefofstafffor U.S. Rep. Henry Waxman. She would not 
disclose how much money the party added to her S350,000 cam­
paign fund. -AP 

Todayperiodsofrain likely and windy. High in the low and mid 60s with a chance of thundershowers tonight and tomor­row. Low tonight in the low and mid 40s. High tomorrow in the low and mid 60s. Probability of rain 60 percent today and 40 percent tonight. -AP 
------------------------------------~-----------------­
Nuclear checkers: no game 
It is the issue of the eighties. Unlike the economy or the enviroment, this issue transcends social and economic class differences. Only isolated lunatics and mental deficients can possibly claim to be in favor ofil'. The issue is nuclear proliferation. 
The fact that no one wants it is accepted by all. Yet the questions posed by nuclear proliferation a t re the most potentially devisive and certainly the most critical ever faced by mankind regarding our continued sur­vival as a species. 
The horror ofnuclear war was an unknown fear only forty years ago. Never before did the spector of being destroyed by a weapon from which there is no real protection hanging over society. Despite sensational and graphic depictions of the results from a nuclear at­tack, the population has in general chosen to ignore the realities of the nuclear age. Perhaps the spector of an entire metropolis being incinerated along with several million of its residents is too mind boggling to grapple with. After all, how does the local news station cover a nuclearholocost? "This is Ted Koppel at ground zero..." 
Thus, an apathetic public has paid little attention to a steady buildup ofarms by the superpowers. The poten­tial destructive power is numbing. We, the United States and the Soviet Union 

have had the capability to proposals by both President blow up the earth once for a Reagan and Premier Bresnev couple of decades. After all, have been little more then once you can blow every­empty rhetoric. The only thing up once, who cares way any ttreaty will work is whether you can do it five if it leaves both sides rough­times, or fifty times. Once ly equal. Only through will do. equality can nuclear peace 
So how did the world get be maintained. Both sides to the point it is today? How will have to be able to assure did the citizens ofWest Ger­themselves that the other is many come to go to sleep keeping to their side of the every night knowing that agreement. This will require nuclear warheads from both Americans to inspect Rus­sides are aimed at them? sian facilities and vice-versa How did the United States Negotiating such a treaty come to spend more on will require a major foriegn
'D-'Kr

nuclear related weaponry in_ policy initiative by the thirty years then it has spent worlds' politicians. The only
!BE BIG KIDS Olf !BE BLOCK
feeding the hungry in two hundred? What has motivated Doctors and Lawyers, two traditionally conservative professions, to voice opinions long considered the private domain ofthe far left? 
The answer to these questions is a form oflow-level agression that can best be descried as "keeping up with the Jones's." The United States and the Soviet Union have been described as playing a game ofglobal chess. Actually, chess requires deep thought and carefully planned moves. In light of this, we've actually been playing nuclear checkers. The Soviets develop a new ballistic missle able to be aimed at any cho.sen window in the White House, we counter w~th a missle system based on the old shell game. We decide to place new missles in Europe aimed at Moscow, Bresnev responds by threatening to place missles in our backyard (i.e. Cuba and Nicaragua). Each time one side moves, the other side attempts to match or jump ahead. 
Until now this game has been a stalemate. The knowledge that any hostile action will be answered in kind has prevented anyone from trying anything ex-
DestgnEdttor.... Maura "ADIEU" Murphy Destgn Assistants ................... Kay Holland Troy Illig Typesetters.......................... Stephen Brown Steve Burg News Edt tor ........................... Mike Wilkins Copy Edttor ............................Valerie Evans Sports Copy Editor .............. Chris Needles Typists .................................... Jeanlne Hynes TariBrown ND Day Editor ....................... Greg Swiercz SMC Day Editor .................Julia Trimarchi AdDesign ..................................Corby Salek Photographer .............................. Ted Ozark 
Guest Appearances ................... Creme Egg !l1lll' late night Tom 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacatton penods. The Observer 1s published by the students of Notre Dame and Satnt Mary s Col­lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnt1ng The Observer. P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer 1s a member of The Associated Press All reproductton nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. lndlana46556 

•


AiPA!ll~lt'it 
NOWRENTINGFORSUMMER 


2 Bedrooms $290per month tumished, utilities, C/A and heated pool. Available June 1 through August 15 Call272-1441 
traordinary. The war between the superpowers has been fought entirely in the Third World by fanatics deluded by dollars and rubles. The dreaded holocost has not materialized because both Russia and the United States knew that both sides would be eliminated. Instead, the stakes have risen each year until neither side can afford to escalate any higher. 
It is time for an end to this madness. Unfortunatly bringing sanity to this situation will not be easy -not by a long shot. First ofall, neither side trusts the other. In the United States it is just assumed that we are the good guys and will obey any treaty. However, if you were a Russian would you be willing to gamble the sur­vival of your country on the good intentions of your archenemy? 
So far the disarmament 
way to acheive this is for the people of the world to make it known that they don't wish to die in a ball of fire. The Europeans made their voices heard last summer, now is the time us to join them in calling for sanity. 
"Hitherto man bad to live with the idea ofdeath as an individual; from now onward mankind will have to live witb the idea ofits death as a species." -Arthur Koestler 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views of the author, and do not necessarily represent the views ofThe Observeror its editorial board. 
Observer notes._______, 
The Observer is always looking for new repor· ters. Call a news editor at 239·7471 or come up to the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune in the early afternoon and ask for the day editor if you are intere~t~. 



The Observer Tuesday, March 30,1982-page 3 
Dismalperformance 

Workers union criticizes Reagan 

Workers continue effortsto reach motionless trooper 
l.AI'AYE'n'E, N.j. (AP)-Rescue 
worker~ yesterday blasted away one 
limestone ledgt: and <.'hipped away 
at another in an etfort to free a state 
trooper trapped in a n;trrow under· 
grounil cavern tor two days. 
Officials held out liule hope that 
Sgt. Donald Wellner, -!8, was still 
alive in the chilly, uncharted tunnel 
he slipped into on a Boy Scout 
spelunking expedition Saturday af. 
ternoon. 
"I don't think anyone is going to admit we've completely f.tiled until we get him out of there and a medi­cal doctor tells us he's dead," State Police Superintendent Col. Clinton L Pagano said. 
Workers who reached Weltner's motionless form 20 feet under· ground yesterday said they found no signs of life, but said he could be suffering from hypothermia with a heartbeat so slow a pulse could not be detected. 
One ridge trapping the 48-year­old Boy Scout leader was blown away yesterday with a small charge of water gel, an explosive more stable than dynamite, Pagano said. Workers packed sleeping bags and blankets around the trooper before 


PR€ taw SOCiety's SPRJnqffi€€tlnq fOR unOeRclassmen 
ffianbatORY ~OR )UOIORS­
8:00 tu€sOay, maRch 30th 
math & ComputinG BuJlOJnG Rm. 212,214,226 
...--PRAYER~ 
Do you want to pray? Have to pray? 
Have to keep trying? Are you searching for 
a life with prayer at the center? The deep 
stillness within from which all else flows? 
Your search may be leading you to 
become a Benedictine at Saint Louis 
Priory. Come and see. 


t \W/

\\l·~~~ill 
\~laaa•jJ/ 
For information write: 
Fr. Ralph Wright, OSB Room4 Saint louis Priory 500 So. Mason Road St. louis, Missouri &3141 
setting the charge, which Pagano desnibed as "no bigger than a firecracker." The rescue team then was able to inch forward to the second ledge and worked to break it up using a small hydraulic drill and hand tools, Pagano said. 
john Hemphill, eastern regional coordinator for the National Cave Rescue Commission, said it took about four hours to drill throygh sLx feet of limestone. He said it would take another "five hours" drilling from a man-made shaft to widen the tunnel to 24 inches and reach Weltner. 
"When we clear that passageway, we will then have to lift him an pull him," Pagano said. 
Lynn Taylor, a cave rescue specialist from Pittsburgh, crawled into the cavern near Weltner's head and said he was unconscious but there were no visible signs ofinjury. 
Weltner was leading a Boy Scout troop on a nature expedition when he slipped into a tunnel and became wedged as he tried to crawl out ofa narrow crevice in the 1,250-foot Crooked Swamp t Cave, the longest in New jersey. 





IN April 
Regl.trado• Fo.... 
-----­
You've aM I r::::§_______________________________ 
C1ty State__Zi~
gottarun. \;QI IRunmng Club AHII18I1on (if any) 
T·shirt Size (circle one) S M l XL AMERICA'S Everybody's running in Amerlcft LCMI RIA 'lbu don't LOVE RUN have to be an Olympic champion to join. Set a reasonable 
urn Registrati.on with your 103 west wayne
goal ...then ask friends, neighbors. and business associates 
50 tax deductible entry fee Room 307 
to pledge 5¢ or more to the Muscular Dystrophy Associa­
eck payable to MOA) TO: South Bend. IN 46601 
tion for every mile you run. Run anywhere you'd like -and at any time. Send in the registration form below along with your 


l!-----­

$3.50 tax deductible entry fee (check payable to MDA), and America's Love Run... we II send you an official T·Shirt, Spo~l~Clnhip Form, 
To benefit the Muscular Dystrophy Association

Runner's Log, and complete instructions. 
West Bankfighting 
Palestinians incite violence 
TEL AVIV, Israel (AP) -Israeli troops used tear gas to break up a Palestinian demonstration in Nablus and an Israeli settle'F fired his pistol to escape a road ambush in the oc· cupied West Bank yesterday the military command reported. 
It was the 11th straight day of clashes in a wave of troubles in the occupied Arab territories in which five Arabs have been killed by Israeli gunfire. 
Prime Minister Menachem Begin's government, which said Sun· day it would not tolerate violence in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, meanwhile was bracing for trouble among Israel's Arab citizens today, the sixth anniversary ofclashes that killed six Israeli Arabs. 
Many of Israel's Arab villages, where one-sixth of the population lives, will be on strike today and three marches are scheduled to commemorate those killed in 1976 and also to protest government policy in the West Bank. 
The link between West Bank and Israeli Arab issues sparked concern in Israel, where the jewish majority hopes the Arab citizenry will remain loyal. 
The military command said five West Bank villages and refugee camps were under total curfew, including the village of Khadr, where an Israeli settler was ain· bushed by a hail of stones and bur· ning tires were rolled at his car at an improvised road barricade. 
The Israeli, who is the treasurer at 
~~;-;-;1\;.-~d\eadir;-Y,:?-------1 
~ronetredt 

A cha\'\CG -\t> ~e re\\gio\JS lifl! ~s ~ sic;-tet-of -\he \\illy Crm;s 
'-'PriL 2..-3 
1pm f'r\dby -?prn $(\t\lrct.y 

~f. Mary's SOLtlVDE 
St· t.\ar~'s Cl)Mpo5.

+o re9ister ~J:


Isr. PaT Mr.caee c.~ 1!~1:~~~-~-~~~~~~~--------~ 
the nearby settlement Gush Etzion, drew his pistol and fired to drive off the rioters, the command said. 
Blood was found on the ground, indicating that one ofthe Palestinian youths might have been wounded, but no gunshot wound was reported in hospitals, the command said. 
The settler's car was destroyed, and the village of Khadr, five miles south of Jerusalem, was put under curfew. 
The command said curfews also were imposed on the towns of Hal· houl, Sair and jaabed, where three Palestinians were wounded Sunday in anti-Israel riots, and on the refugee camp at Jenin in the north· 
See ISRAEL, page 4 

ByJIM McCAY 
Associtlted Press 
The United Steelworkers union Monday criticized President Reagan's economic performance and accused him of breaking promises that working Americans wouldn't bear the brunt ofinflation. 
"Even allowing fur the latitude usually afforded promises made during political campaigns, I must say on the behalfof the United Stec:l· workers of America that your economk performance, contrasted to your promises, has been a dismal one indeed," McBride wrote to Reagan as president of the 1.4 mil· lion member union. 
"You promised you would not wa~.:e the ti~-tht against intlation by engineering a job-killing recession You broke that promise," McBride said in an open letter, which was published as a paid advertisement. 
The leuer appeared Monday in the Wall Street journal and is scheduled for publication in more than a dozen other major newspapers across the country, according to union officials. 
Union spokesman Mike Drapkin said McBride usually likes to keep a low profile, but resorted to national advertising because he felt he wasn't getting a satisfactory response from the Reagan administration 
"This administration simply doesn't want to deal with us. T[hey don't want to deal with organized labor and they specifically don't want to deal with us as a union," said Drapkin. 
The union estimated the ad· vertisement would reach nearly 19 million readers, particularly in areas 
where steelmaking is a donlinant in· dustry. White House spokesmen had little comment on the union's campaign. 
"I haven't seen it or heard about it (the letter). It could be around,' said deputy press Secretary Larry Speakes. "We get a lor of mail." 
McBride criticized Reagan for failing to bring down "unconscionable" interest rates, rebuild the nation's industrial base, enforce trade laws and reduce un­employment. 
"Steel imports now account for some 26 percent of the domestic steel products. A million· tons of foreign steel -much of it dumped or priced unfairly due ro govern· ment subsidies -means the loss of some 5,000 American steelworker job opportunities," McBride said. 
The union chief also critictzed Reagan's refusal to revive the Steel Tri-Partite Advisory Committee which was established during the Carter administrtion 
McBride called the committee a "workable coalition of labor, management and government representatives" and said Reagan's ·'complete indifference effectively killed any chance that program had to lead to a strong and healthy domestic steel industry." 
... .__. 

A rescue worker pauses to a cup ofcoffee during the search for trapped State Trooper Donald We/tner, who became trapped in a cave be was exploring with a group ofBoy Scouts Saturday after­noon. (AP Laserpboto) 
The Observer Tuesday, March 30,1982 -page 4 


Botnb explodeson Frenchtrain, kills five 
LIMOGES, France (AP)-Abomb exploded aboard an express train racing through the hilly countryside near Limoges last night, gutting one car and killing at least five passen­gers. Officials speculated that it was either a terrorist attack or an ac­cidental explosion of a terrorist .bomb. 
Twelve people were injured, two 
ofthem seriously. 

French television said police believed explosives being transported by terrorists may have blown up accidentally. The broad­cast said authorities were question­ing a young woman passenger. 
An official at the Limoges prefecture (regional authority) described the explosion as "a ter­rorist attack." There was no im­mediate claim ofresponsibility. 
The blast hit the second car ofthe 15-car train about 15 miles north­east of the city of Limoges on a regular Paris-Toulouse run. 
A spokesman for the stateowned railroad network SNCF said the train, a favorite of businessmen, could carry 450 people. But he did not know how many were aboard on a quiet night. 
A journalist, Simont: Jorand, es­timated there were 300 to 400 pas­sengers. 
The spokesman, who · in accordance with French custom refused to be identified, said he did · not know immediately whether any foreigners were aboard the Capitole express. 
Jorand said the train was traveling at 85-100 mph and the engineer was. unable to stop it for more than a mile after the explosion. 
She said the train did not derail, but stopped in a deep cutting, and the 200 rescuers had to walk more than half a mile along the tracks to reach the wreckage. Debris blocked both tracks and halted all traffic be­tween Limoges and Chateauroux. 
About three hours after the explo­sion at 9.30 p.m., a railway spokes­man said the wrecked car was about to be towed to the nearby station of Ambazac -an indication that no more passengers were believed trapped in the wreckage. 

stressing that the occasions for most abortions 
could be avoided through abstinence. (Photo by jobnMacor) 
only anti-abortion but also anti-contraception, 
. . . Shuttle 
continuedjrompage 1 

were supposed to land at 12:27 p.m. ~.·hen NASA'sJack Riley announced from Mission Control in Hous­ton: 
"The probabilities are high the space shuttle will land at Kennedy Space Center, which is forecast to have the best weather. While here in the control center, flight planning is getting under way for a lan­ding at KSC, we will continue to watch the weather at Northrup because we prefer to land at Northrup ifat all possible. 
"In any event, we do not want to delay a landing beyond tomor­row because the KSC weather for Wednesday is forecast~.b~~ad." _ 
The Kennedy runway is not far from pad 39A where the shuttle was launched March 22. The last minute wave-off was a dramatic anti-climax to the space shuttle's longest and most strenuous test. 
Lousma and Fullerton had already donned pressure suits for des­
cent when Mission Control told them "there is some probability ofa 
waveoff." 

But, the astronauts were told, "We don't anticipate that." 
Winds were gaining strength, however, and Mission Control said, "We will have to watch it all the way to the deorbit burn." If that engine firing had occurred, the descent would have been irrevers­ible. 
"We're ready if you are," Mission Control told the astronauts at wake-up, accompanying their reveille with the song "Six Days on the Road...I'm a'gonna make it home tonight." 
Actually, it was the start ofthe eighth day in space for Lousma and Fullerton, winding down a trip just short of 3 million miles long. 

What about work? Do you want yours, whatever it may be, to be a service of the Lord? The harvest is rich, but the laborers are few. Do you want to be a laborer in the Lord's fields? Your se-lrch may be leading you to becom~ a Benedictine at Saint Louis 
continuedfrom page 1 

upset that the trial had not started. 
"John is truly ill, and we're anxious to get that across in court. His rights to a speedy trial have been denied him," said the elder Hinckley, president and chairman of the Vanderbilt Energy Corp. 
The current delay is over admis­sion at trial of an oral statement taken from Hinckley the day of the shootings and the seizure of hand­written notes from his cell last July. 
The trial judge and a three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals said the evidence was obtained in violation of Hinckley's constitution­al rights. The government appealed to the full appelate court, hoping to gain the right to use the evidence to show Hinckley was sane a year ago. 
Statistics from the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts show that most federal criminal defendents would have had their trials long before Hinckley -even if they pleaded innocent by reason of in­sanity, as Hinckley did, and even if their constitutional .rights were the subject ofpre-trial arguments. 
"It's hard to make the Hinckley case comparable to anything else," said Norbert Halloren, special assis­tant to the deputy director at the Ad­ministrative Office for the courts. 
"It's such a cause celebre. The U.S. Attorney, the Justice Department and the FBI are working under such a spotlight, they're probably going to be extra careful," Halloren said. "It stands to reason they would feel justified in spending more time, ef­fort, and money on something that touches such a tener nerve on the part ofthe general public." 
Halloren's statistics for the year ending June 30, 1980, showed only 
7.3 percent of federal criminal defendents waited more than 180 days between the time oftheir arrest and trial. 
He estimated that only 3 percent waited more than a year. 
Congress was concerned about trial delays when it passed the Speedy Trial Act in 1974. · 
The law said the time from arrest to trial should be 100 days, but per­mitted the clock to stop ticking for some 20 categories ofdelays, includ­ing the filing ofpre-trial motions, ap­peals to higher courts or psychiatric examinations -all pertinent in Hinckley's case. 
In the two previous presidential' assassination attempts, justice was swift. Lynette Alice "Squeaky" Fromme pointed a gun at President Gerald Ford in Sacramento on Sept. 

THEOBSERVER 
NEEDS PHOTOGRAPHERS! 
This is a paid position with many fringe benefits. Darkroom experience a must. Bring resume and samples of your 
work to the OB£ER''ER Office (3rd floor LaFortune) by March 31. 
Priory. G,ome and see. 
t \ 
\WI 

\\··~~·~J/ . 
\~llaa~j~/ 
L-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
For information write: 
Fr. Ralph Wright, OSB Room4 Saint Louis Priory 500 So. Mason .Road St. Louis, Missouri 63141 

...Hinckley 
5, 1975 but did not fire a shot. She pleaded not guilty, but was con­victed of attempting to murder the president and sentenced to life in prison on Dec. 17, 1975. 
While the psychiatric examina­tions of Hinckley were crucial, did they have to take four months? 
"A month should be adequate in most cases," said Dr. Leonard Diamond, who has examined criminal defendents and teaches both law and psychiatry at the Uni­versity of California at Berkley and San Francisco. 


, , , Vote 
continuedfrom page 1 
toral protest in Latin America. 

Jose Figueres, three-time presi­
dent ofCosta Rica and a prime figure 
in the democratic movement in 
Latin America in the 1940s and 
1950s, said before the polls closed 
Sunday: "I don't know who won 
today but I know who lost. The guer­
rillas lost." 

He said outsiders had confused 
the Salvadoran situation with the 
1979 revolution in Nicaragua, 
where the guerrillas had the support 
ofa broad spectrum ofthe public. 
Figueres was the head of his country's observer team, one of dozens invited from other nations to watch the elections. 
...Isreali 
continuedfrom page 3 
ern West Bank. 

Three other villages were 
blockaded so that no one could en­
ter or leave during the day, the com­
mandsaid. 

An anti-Israel demonstration at 
Al-Najah University in Nablus turned 
violent during the afternoon, and 
troops used tear gas to disperse the 
crowd, the army said. 

Reliable witnesses reported the 
troops fired bullets at the the crowd 
in Nablus, but the army said only 
tear gas was used. 

Five Arabs have been killed by Is­raeli gunfire since the demonstra­tions starter\ .;q March 19 after the Israeli auth'lritit:~ dismissed the first of three radical Palestinian nationalist mayors in the West Bank. One Israeli soldier in the Gaza Strip was killed when a hand grenade ex­ploded after it was tossed into his jeep by several masked men. 

_..----------------~-­
The Observer 
Clothing expert Malloy begins WOWweek at SMC 
By MARY AGNES CAREY 
Senior StaffReporter 
The non-verbal message one con­
veys through clothing dominates in 
the lmsim:ss world, according to 
wanlrobl· consultant, author and re· 
sean.:her John T. Molloy. 
"Blue, gray ami dull" are the colors that predominate the busi· ness world, and "if you want to join... that's the look," he stated. 
"The name of the game is follow the leader," he l'Xplained. To be ef. fective in the business world, a woman must ask "Who am I going to deal with today and what message do I want to send?" when selecting her daily apparel. 
Women, like men, must wear suits to gain authority in the male­dominated businessworld. In research Malloy and his associates conducted, women who wore blue or grey suits "were given a chance...lf you don't know the uni­form of the trade, you're not getting 
in," he stated. 
Author of three books and a con­
sultant to businesses, agencies and 
politicians in both the United States 
and abroad, the nationally­
syndicated columnist was the first of 
five speakers in Saint Mary's 
Women's Opportunity Week 
(WOW) which lasts through 
Thursday. 
"I am a researcher," Molloy 
proclaimed at the beginning of his 
lecture, adding that his techniques 
"are taught in every major univer­
sity" in the United States. 
His "academically sound" 
research began 20 years ago during a 
summer project while teaching in 
New York. He discovered that cloth­
ing is essential to portray a credible 
image in teaching as well as other 
professions, a fact that is "not fair, 
not just, but that's the way it is." 
Malloy sold his research 28 times 
"at J500 a crack" and obtained in­
vitations to speak "mainly before 
corporations." Many additions have 
been made to his original findings, 
but some basics still remain: beige 
communicates a look of power and 
importance as an upper-middle class 
color; white suits "work" only ifone 
is going to sell ice-cream; never 
wear two patterns at the same time; and "follow the leader" in choice ot office business apparrel. 
For women, the "do's" and "don't's" are highly restricive. Women wearing light colors are "three times more likely to be chal­lenged" than women in darker colors. Red, "a sexy color," is forbid­den; a woman in a blouse only (without a jacket covering) is greeted as a secretary and not an ex­ecutive; "simple" pumps with one to one-and-one-half-inch heels, dosed heels and toes are the norm; and an attache case is a guaran'tee for a woman to n:ceive better service in a 
restaurant. 
Women have "had to fight" to make it in the business world, Mal­loy acknowleged. "It's not an equal world. It's an unfair world. That's just the way it is." 
Affairs with the boss almost guarantee dismissal and slit-skirts and low-neck blouses are "out." You can seduce the boss or impress him -you can't do both. Women who move into upper-division manag­ment must also be knowledgeable in men's clothing as well. "You must know what to expect of men -and that includes dress." 
Aman competing with women for employment is "not stupid, not dull, knows what he's doing and will cut your throat if you get in his way," Malloy stated. More women are becoming "part of the system," yet are still not conditioned to allocate power as men do, a skill women need to master. 
With more women sticking to the basics, a few suits, blouses, pumps and basic jewelry, the fashion in­dustry may not make "a lot of money" anymore, but it's still "expensive to be an executve woman," according to Malloy. 
"Women are in favor of equal op­portunity and you're getting it," Mal­loy stated. "I'd like to see women make it in business," he continued, "it's the hope ofthe country." 
Pat Reynolds, a teacher of Fresh­men Religion and Relationships at Marillac High School, Northfield, II., and columnist, author and Trahey Advertising President Jane Trahey will speak tonight at 7 p.m. and 8 p.m., respectively, in Stapleton Lounge to continue WOW. 
News Copy Editors 
Mandatory meeting tonight! 
Time: 6:30 
Place : Observer Office 
Be There!!! 




COMMUNITY 
And then there's community. Living together with d 
family of brothers in lifelong commitment to the Lord. 
A lot of mutual support. Plenty of pain Jnd seli­
sacriiice, too. And deepest in 11 Jll, JOy. 
Prayer. Work. Community. With the Lord. Is your 
search leading you ~o become a Bentdictme at Saint 
louis Pnory? Jt w:.s the lord who s;11d to those who 
first sought H1m, "Come and see." 
t 
For information write: 
Fr. Ralph Wright, OSB 
\W/ 
Room4 

\\JAJ4._~~11 Sdinl Louis Priory 500 So. Mason Road 
'laaajjJ/ 
St. Louis, Missouri 63141 
Tuesday, March 30,1982-page 5 


Twodead 
Haitian freighter capsizes in storm 
Two firemen view the wreckage of a 50-foot sailboat as it sits on the 1wind and surf blasted beach in Highland BeacJJ Sunday morning. The boat capsized early this morning"'"'--ili/iing two Haitians. Six others survived the ordeal ami two Haitians are still missing.(API.ASERPHOTO) 
HIGHLAND BEACH, Fla. (AP) ­The bodies of two Haitian women were washea up on a beach here yesterday from ~ freighter that had capsized in the rough Atlantic. High seas, stiff winds and poor visibility forced officials to stop searching the ocean for two others missing. 
Six survivors struggled to shore through 10-foot waves after their vessel capsized sometime before midnight Sunday. One man was hospitalized for exposure and the others were sent to a refugee camp. 
Mike Kelley, a Coast Guard spokesman, said no distress signals or radio messages were received from the Esperancia, a motorized, 
• 

wooden-hulled freighter. 
"There probably wasn't even a t radio on board, unfortunately," he said. "Our first warning that some­thing was wrong was when the sur­vivors swam ashore." 
Federal officials said they were trying to determine whether the 70­foot vessel was on a cargo mission or ifit carried illegal Haitian refugees. 
James Higginbotham, a U.S. Bor­der Patrol agent, and police at the beach speculated some of the Haitians had planned to enter the country illegally and seek asylum. 
It was the second fatal Haitian shipwreck off Florida's Gold Coast within .five months. About 10 miles to the south, 33 refugees drowned 
Oct. 26 after their sailboat broke up 
in rough surf. 
As helicopters searched the sea yesterday, the body of a woman in her 20s was put Into a yellow body bag just below a luxury beachfront condominium. A second body, that of a younger woman, had been found by officials earlier just north ofthe beachfront Holiday Inn. 
The Coast Guard said a cutter stopped the Esperancia off Nassau, Bahamas, early Sunday, and the 10 people aboard apparently carried the proper papers. 



COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL 
Notre Dame Stepan Center
n ~ 
Friday, April 2 Saturday, April 3 
7:30 p.m.-1:00 a.m. IZ:30 p.m.-5:00 p.m. 6:30 p.m.-1:00 a.m. 
• 15 College Bands • 
Tickets:· All Sessions Pass $7.50 N.D.!St. Mary's Students $8.50 General Public ~ Individual Tickets Fri. $5.00, Sat. aft. $2.50, Sat. eve. $4.50 • .; 
Judges: Billy Taylor, Charlie Haden, Frank Foster, Nat Adderley, Shelly Manne, Dan Morgeaatern 
Tickets available at LaFortune or call239-5283 lor information J 
~~~~~~~~~~4.
r~-~---~--------~~~---~ 
Business & Technology_Tue_sday_,Mar_ch-30,1_982_Pa_ge6 
EconomicUpdate 
Resales ofexisting housesrose 2.2 percent in 
February making up about half the sales ground lost in January, the National Association ofRealtors said Thursday. Existing houses were sold at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.9 million units during the month, up from theJanuary rate of 1.86 million, the report said. January sales, hurt by bad weather in some parts ofthe country, had been down 4.1 percent from December, the real estate trade group said February's sales rate was 26.6 percent below that of the year­earlier month, it said The group's chief economist, Jack Carlson, noted that home loan rates remained "in the upper teens" in February, "posing grave affordable problems for many homeowners and keeping home sales at seriously depressed levels." But Carlson also said that "with spring weather the housing market is likely to begin a slow and gradual recovery so that existing home sales will total roughly 2.4 million units during 1982 and 3.2 million in 1983." 
-AP 

The prolonged slump in the steel industry is blamed for United States Steel Corporation's decision to temporarily close a blast furnace at its Homestead Works by the end ofthis week The steelmaker said Tuesday the layoff will add 15 5 workers to the plant's layoff roster and will bring the total number to 2, 150. Blast furnaces produce pig iron, a raw material for steel. Because ofslow orders for steel products, only 6 out of 20 blast furnaces in the Pitts­burgh area are operating. With the withdrawal of the U.S. Steel furnace from service, steelmaking output in the Pittsburgh area will 
drop. Last week, raw steel production in the district slipped to 234,000 tons. -AP 

Research Update 
The departmentOfArchiteCtureat the Uni­
versity ofNotre Dame will begin will begin using the dissolve image technique as a classroom tool next fall. With the use of specially selected equipment students will be able to better visualize dramatic building changes. The equipment will be put into use after architectural drawings are made by student draftsmen. In the drawin&s, walls can be dissolved or buildings can be made transparent so that students can better see the structural systems. The effects will be especially useful in the study ofhistoric building restoration. -The Observer 
• ·u·

Uruverst esshould avoid secrecy in any licensing agree­ments they reach with private industry, a conference of university presidents, scientists and business leaders agreed Saturday. The 35 participants at the conference also said American universities should try vigorously to set rules that would prevent "the quality of teach­ing and research" from being compromised by the growing com­mercialization ofscientific research. Donald Kennedy, the president ofStanford University, who initiated the conference, said a number of universities including Stanford, had been approached by com­panies with grant proposals that would require keeping research results confidential so that the companies could exploit them. "We hope this conference will now lead to greater understanding ofthe universities' need for openness," Mr. Kennedy said. -AP 

Wall Street Update 
Blue chip issues paced a slight upswing on Wall street yesterday. Trading was light as investors expressed fears ofadeepen­ing recession. The DowJones average of 30 industrials rose 5.90 to 
823.82. declines slightly outnumbered advances on the New York Stock Exchange. Big Board volume totaled 3 7.10 million shares, against 42.40 million in the previous session. -AP 
FELLOWSHIPS AVAILABLE 
The Depart•.tent of Linguistics at the University of Illinois at Chicago offers work leading to the MA in theoretical and applied linguistics, including an MA in TESOL (Teaching English to Speakers ofOther Languages). 
For the 1982-83 academic year, the Department Of Linguistics will offer a generous number of Fellowships to qualifying graduate students -which will include a Tuition and Fee Waiver, plus a stipend of $1,500 at minimum. In addition, other kinds of financial aid are available to prospective students. 
The deadline for applications is April 30, 1982. For' applications and information, write to: 
The Head, Department ofLinguistics University ofIllinois at Chicago Box 4348 Chicago, Illinois 60680 


Un~of 
IllinoisatChicago 
ByDON WATERS 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON (AP) -Arhtrak will remain a truly nationalpassen­ger railroad next year, and the light­ly patronized Cardinal train that runs through Indiana on its way from Chicago to Washngton may be saved as well, Congress was told yes­terday. 
In contrast to a year ago, when Amtrak and Reagan admiriistratiop officials were at odds over rail service outside the populous Boston-Washington corridor be­cause of federal subsidy cutbacks, the mood was distinctly upbeat yes­terday. 
"This is the first time in my memory that the administration, Congress and Amtrak appear to be in agreement that the basic national rail passenger system should be maintained," Amtrak President Alan 
S. Boyd told the House transporta­tion appropriations subcommittee. 
"...That system today is operating more efficiently and is producing higher revenues than at any time in the corporation's 11-year history," he said, adding that "a stable route system allows Amtrak to focus its resources on reducing costs while continually improving the perfor­mance and operation ofits trains." 
Amtrak is asking Congress to ap­propriate $788 million in operating and capital subsidies in the fiscal year starting Oct. 1, up from tbe S735 million approved for the cur­rent year but still well below 1981's 5896 million subsidy. 
President Reagan, through the Transportation Department's Federal Railroad Administration, has proposed only a 5600 million sub­sidy, with n 18 million ofthat n 88 million difference resulting from less help for such capital projects as new cars and track improvements, 


protest against recent increases ofgas oil prices and caused massive jams on French matn roads.( AP Laserphoto) 
Olngressfavors 

Amtrakservice tobe maintained 
and the other $70 million in reduced operating subsidies. 
"By implementing a reasonable set of policy and operational changes, Amtrak can operate within this (administration) budget," FRA administrator Robert W. Blanchette testified. 
Boyd acknowledged that Amtrak · could operate its 23,000-mile rail network next year with the relative­ly small 516 million in capital sub­sidies proposed by the administration. 
But, he added, without reasonable capital subsidies, "we will find our­selves in a downward spiral that can only be corrected by a massive infu­sion ofcapital dollars in the future." 
And, he said, "I do not believe that Congress would support a policy that requires Amtrak simply to defer 

capital projects in the hope that a 
future Congress would be more 
sympathetic." 

One of the administration's as­
sumptions is that 55 million will be 
saved next year by eliminating the 
Cardinal train, which winds through 
much of Senate Democratic Leader 
Robert C. Byrd's West Virginia on its 
way from Washington to Chicago via , Cincinnati, Ohio. 
The train was eliminated for a 
time last year because it failed to 
measure up to the congressionally 
imposed standard that Amtrak trains 
average at least 150 passengers an­
nually for each route mile. 

Byrd used his influence to give the 
Cardinal a reprieve, and Boyd said 
the train since has improved its pas­
senger average to 138 from the 123 
at cancellation. 


Researchyields possiblecancer cure 
ByWARREN E. LEARY 
Associated Press 
DAYTONA Beach, Fla. (AP) -A 
once-promising method of killing 
cancers with microscopic drug 
capsules has proved disappointing, 
but it may spawn a technique to turn 
the body's healthy cells into cancer­
devouring "garbage collectors," 
researchers say. 
Scientists now say every approach tried to deliver anti-cancer drugs to .tumors in small spheres call t ed 
liposomes has been a bust. 
It was hoped the capsules would 
ferry toxic drugs to a cancer cell and 
degrade after entering the tumor. It 
would thus release deadly doses of 
the drugs directly onto the cancer 
but keep it away from healthy tissue 
and avoid or reduce the side effects 
that anti-cancer drug therapy often 
has. 
Despite the publicity liposomes 
have attracted since the mid-1970s 
as a potentially revolutionary system 
to fight cancer, their performance in 
the body never matched their test­
tube potential, said Dr. George 
Poste, research director of Smith, 
Kline and French Laboratories in 
Philadelphia. 
"I think the targeting ofliposomes 
to tumor cells is a lost cauSe," Poste, 

one of the pioneers in liposome research, told an American Cancer 
Society  science  writers'  seminar  
here Sunday.  
The  capsules,  made  of  fatty  

materials similar to cell membranes, are eaten by the body's defense sys­tem before they can reach the can­cer cells, Poste said. But the very reason liposomes fail as miniature anti-tumor missiles may give them a new role in fighting cancer. 
The liposomes could not reach the intended cancer because almost all were eaten by giant defensive white cells soon after they were in­jected into the body. 
These white cells, termed the "garbage collectors ofthe body," eat dead cells, foreign particles and other debris, he said. 
Another researcher, Dr. Isiah ). Fidler, of the National Cancer In­stitute's Frederick Cancer Research Center in Maryland, has found that the white cells, or macrophages, will destroy virtually any type of cancer cell when stimulated by certain chemicals. 
For unknown reasons, macro­phages do not attack cancer unless activated by these chemicals. But the synthetic chemicals that spur macrophages in the laboratory are water-soluble and frequently pass through the b0dies of test animals before they can L·o their job, Fidler told the seminar. 
A 
I 
Tuesday, March 30,1982-page 7



Editorials 1 
I 
Who are these so-called 'leftist guerrillas?' 
Jack Vogel, graduate student in philosophy, examines the role and objectives of the so-called leftist guerillas of £1 Salvador. 
The majority of the media in this country speaks often, of late, about the actions of "leftist guerrillas" in El Sal­vador. Little more is ever said to ex­plain to us who makes up this group, 
Jack Vogel 
other, that is, than that they engage in acts of "terrorism." We are left to in­fer that such types must be extremists, a fanatical fringe much like the Red Brigade in Italy. 
It is time this subtle ideological manipulation was exposed. And, the best way to do that is to put a face, as it were, on this vaguely identified group; to ask, who are these "leftist guerril­las" and what do they stand for? 
The guerrillas are called the Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front (FMLN). It takes its name from a hero and martyr of an earlier struggle for liberation in the 1930's, Farabundo Marti. It is the liberation army of a broad political coalition, the Frente Democratico Revolucionario (FDR), the Revolutionary Democratic Front. 
Is the FMLN a band of 
"terrorists"? "Terrorism" is a very 
loosely used term these days. It often 
seems to designate any armed activity 
unfavorable to the policies and inter­
ests of Washington. 
It often looks as though any insur­
rectionary actions against an 
established government are to be con­
sidered "terrorist", but on such an in­
terpretation even George Washington 
would count as a "terrorist": surely an 
unacceptable conclusion. 
If we contain our usage to a more 
traditional standard-that of a small, 
unrepresentative group involved in 
armed and /or violent activity (like the 
Red Brigade) -then the FMLN is 

P.O.BoxQ 
What is a Domer? 
Dear Editor: 
Every day, the word "domer" is 
heard throughout this campus-but, 
what is a "domer"? By observing 
the students, the answer will come 
into focus. First of all, a "domer" is 
a person who studies on weekdays, 
then gets drunk (or high), until 
he/she does not know his/her name 
on the weekends. Why dGes he have 
to get drunk/high? Perhaps he had a 
test Friday and then wanted to forget 
about it that night. Or was it peer 
pressure? Or does he have a 
problem? Why drink at all? 
Next, a "domer" is a person who can feel comfortable with people of his/her own sex. Did you ever notice during lunch/dinner that the guys sit with the guys, and the girls with the girls? (There are exceptions) Also, how many -girls would go to lunch/dinner with male friends if they called the girls beforehand? And how many guys would even call? Some think that Screw-Your­Roommates/formals are the only ac­tivities in which both sexes can interact. Major problems are the "fat chick" and "Mr. Jock" stereotypes. "How can I even be see with her? What will my friends say?" or " I 
can't go out with him. I have my pick of boys, I want the very best." Maybe the problem is that this type of person did not go to a co-ed high school and does not know how to as­sociate with a person of the opposite sex? Or maybe competition with the opposite sex is the issue? A (N.D.) girl would not have much of a problem if the guy that called her up 
was not from this school. There are complaints about the social life here at Notre Dame. In theory, "domers" have good ideas, but this is where it ends. No "domer" wants to change the system -after all, changing the system might hurt his chances of getting into med school. 
About grades -a "domer" is a person who does not have a mind of his own. but copies the minds of his professors (when appropriate), for an 
A. He has to have a 4.0 or he will be a failure. Being number one is the most important thing to him -learning, that is secondary. 
Why does a "domer" have the at­titude, "I" and "me" ins~ead of ••we" and Hus"? 
At this point, you would like to throw me off of the 13th floor of the library. You are probably asking yourself, "Why is he writing this? He does not know what he is talking about! This 'domer type' is not me." Well, let me tell you why I am 

writing this letter. First of all, the above-mentioned "domer" defini­tions are stereotypes (like the ones that "domers" give to others ­"Throat, arts and parties major," etc), and these stereotypes probably do not apply to you. Next, this type of person could be from any univer­
sity/college, not just Notre Dame/St. Mary's. There is nothing wrong with this university, except for the "domer''. Your college years are the 

best years ofyour life. Why ruin them with these above-mentioned at­titudes? 
The purpose of this letter is not to ridicule my peers-i.e. the students (after all, I am one also, and you might see me as "domer" too) but to make you think. Do not blame "this certain person" that you are bored, etc. Have a party (you do not need alcohol to have a good time-just, good friends), go on a date (no reason intended), do not be afraid to talk to other students, especially ones who you do not know, do something exciting and different but most im­portant, BE YOURSELF!!! Next time you walk down the quad, say "Hi!' to everybody. Sit with a guy/girl during lunch. Do not try to belittle somebody else because he/she is different. Help somebody -even if it throws off your schedule. 
Sincerely, George Calafactor College of Science 

definitely not terrorist. groups, and, finally, popular organiza­perience", not from outside theoreti­
The "Latin American Regional tions of peasants and soldiers. cal propaganda. The very nature of the Report" (Aug., 1980) indicated that They stand for freedom from struggle for freedom and democracy in the FMLN had 15,000 active soldiers military repression, true national this context leads to socialism. and a reserve of 80,000 . political and economic independence, 
The combined military forces of the and a program of literacy and educa­What conclusions should be drawn junta (Army, Navy, Air Force, and tion for all elements of the population. in all this ? Thomas Enders, Assistant National Guard) has only about 15,140 Is this revolution Marxist or Secretary of State for Inter-American men. (This excludes the so-called socialist ? If you mean by this that it is Affairs, in testimony on Feb. 3 to a "para-military" groups like the "imported" by Soviets or Cuban ad­House Foreign Affairs subcommittee "White Warriors Union," a sort ofEI visors, as the Reagan administration said, "If after Nicaragua, El Salvador Salvadorian KKK that threatened in had repeatedly alleged, the answer is is captured by a violent minority, who 1977 to excecute all Jesuits for being no. No substantial evidence has been in Central America would not live in communists.) produced for this claim. The infamous fear ?" Considering the above data, as So what we have here is hardly some "White Papers" which were to have well as the junta's record of massacre small "fringe" group. Furthermore, demonstrated this allegation have been and torture, and its clear service in the most reports indicate that the FMLN is subjected to devastating criticism. interest of the "14 families" (the cof­supported by the populus. On the other hand, the very need of fee producing oligarchy) I would say it 
What is it that the FOR stands for the masses of people to abolish the and not the FMLN is the violent and the FMLN is fighting for ? The century-long stranglehold on their minority, and that the great majority FDR is not monolithic in theory; it is politial economy by foreign monopoly will only cease to "live in fear" when not solidly composed, of revolutionary capital leads the revolution to be the the revolutionary forces triumph. As is Marxists. Rather it also contains fac­practical expression of socialism. As often the case, Washington has in­tions of Social Democrats, dissident Che Guevara said of the Cuban revolu­verted matters; it is only they and the _ Christian Democrats, independent stu­tion it is Marxism learned in the monopoly capital they represent that dents and professionals, religious "extraordinary university of ex-fear such a triumph. 

~eagan Herod'postertnisleading 
I have read with a great deal of inter­apparently favors -with 6,000 -with anns-which has done much est some ofthe sentiments expressed "executions" of its own. This is a good for the Salvadoran people, and recently in The Observer concerning documented fact -not a allegatiol} which cannot be held entirely respon­
U.S. involvement in El Salvador. from a State Department "white sible for the behavior of homicidal Upon seeing Friday's front-page paper," but a statistic released by an goons, is a grossly unjust condemna­photo, however, I felt I had to write a institution of the very Catholic Church tion. 
letter criticizing the wrongheaded at­whose name is involved so often by the Regotti's analogy deserves further titudes of one of the persons pictured, Solidarity group here at Notre Dame. criticism. Duarte's government has of­senior Joe Regotti. lt indeed appears that neither side has fered negotiations contingent on the 
"Reagan Herod," even for a sign of cornered the market on morality in El left's laying down its arms. The left protest, is a pretty severe condemna­Salvador. has refused participation, and has fur­tion. Obviously, the implication is that Unfortunately, in international ther vowed to kill anyone who votes. 
President Reagan is responsible for the politics, there is not such thing as a In light of such irresponsibility by the slaughter of innocents in El Salvador, black and white issue. "Reagan left, Regotti's implicit advocacy of a as the biblical Herod was in Judea. Herod?" President Reagan's ad­negotiated sharing of power including 
"Reagan Herod" seems to imply ministration currently supports a the left is illogical. criticism not only for Ronald Reagan regime in 'hE! Salvador which has ac­Moreover, whoever ends up with but also for the Duarte government, hieved success in instituting reforms power in El Salvador undoubtedly will whom people such as the Solidarity such as banking nationalization, com­face the trauma of further domestic group here on campus charge with the prehensive land reform, and free elec­violence as the am1y, the oligarchy, slaughter of civilians. We all know that tions. Admittedly, the government has and other groups struggle to protect thousands have died in El Salvador in a major problem with its troops who their turf. Regrettably, there are no recent months -many as victims of have slaughtered civilians, and it is a simple solutions to the El Salvador brutal security forces, but many too as problem which absolutely must be cor­dilemma, which admits of no black or victims of right-wing' 'death squads.'' rected. white. The vicious epithet "Reagan 
However, I wonder if Mr. Regotti is But evidence also demonstrates that Herod,'' represents just such simplis­aware that the Catholic University's right-wing groups and, as I pointed tic and misguided thinking. Center for Documentation and In­out, leftist guerillas are guilty of such a formation of El Salvador credits the use as well. Branding Reagan as Daniel Lawton 
left-wing guerillas -whom Regotti "Herod" for supporting a government Arts and Letters Junior 

Editorial Board Depanrnoent~ge~ 
· The Oburver is an independent newspaper published by the students of the 
Editor·in·Chief.............................. Michael Monk Business Manager .............................Tony Aiello 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily 
Managing Editor..........,.....Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller .............................................Eric Schulz
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report· 
Executive News Editor.........................Kelli Flint AdvertisinG Manager.......................Chris Owen
ed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of 
SMC News Editor..................... Margaret Fosmoe Production Manager.................. Maura Murphy
a majority of the Editorial Board. Co.nmentaries, opinions and letters are the views 
Sports Editor...................................Chris Needles Circulation Manager ..........................Ray Inglin
of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and 
Editorials Editor .............................Paul McGinn Systems Manager...........................Bruce Oakley the free expression of varying opinions on campus, throu.!Jb letters, ii encour!l&ed. Features Editor ...................................Tari Brown 
Photo Editor...................................Rachel Blount 
P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Founded November 3, 1966 

portant meeting for all members on Wednesday, March 31, at 9 p.m. in the Grace Pit. A vote will be taken at this time to determine a merge with the sailing club. A small party will follow. -The Ob­server 
The Fellowship of Christian Athletes will hold a meeting tomorrow night at 9 o'clock in the Howard social space. All are invited to attend. -The Observer 
Mud Volleyball pairings have been posted outside the Student Union offices. Play begins April 5 and continues until An Tostal's Sunny Saturday. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC women's golfteam twill have a mandatory meeting this afternoon at 3:15 on the putting green next to the Rockne Memorial. All are asked to please bring their own putters. Anyone wishing to try out may attend. Members should bring money for team sweaters. Spring practice and match schedules will be discussed. -The Observer 
The ND Rowing Club will hold a mandatory meeting tonight at 9:30 in the Little Theatre of LaFortune for all members who are going to the race in Omaha, Neb. Please bring your checkbooks to pay for the trip and any outstanding dues. -The Observer 
nups will be held Wednesday, March 31 from 3 to 5 p.m. in the lobby of LaFortune. Six to twelve male and/or female players per team. One captain is needed to sign-up his/her team, and must list all team members. Registration fee is $3 per team. Competition beginsbefore Easter break. Prizes will be awarded to the first and second place teams. -The Observer 
Both national championships in women's basketball were decided over the weekend. In the first ever NCAA women's championship, held at Norfolk, Va., top-ranked Louisiana Tech used a 26-4 first-half spurt to top second-ranked Cheyney State (Pa.), 76-62. Meanwhile, in Philadelphia, Patty Coyle's 30 points led Rutgers to an 83-77 upset ofTexas in the AIAW finals. The Knights' victory snapped the Longhorns' 32-game winning streak. -AP 
The intramural wrestlingchampionship will be held tonight at 8 p.m. at the ACC Pit. -The Observer 
The SMC softballteam split a doubleheader yesterday with visiting St. Francis. Annie Day was the losing pitcher for the Belles as they dropped the opener, 11-9. But Saint Mary's rebounded to take the nightcap, 5-l, behind the pitching ofMary Beth Hosinski. The Belles now stand at 3-3 for the season and will be back in action tomorrow at 3 p.m. when they play host to Valparaiso. -The Ob­server 
In this year's NHLplayoff format, the top tour teams in each division make the playoffs, regardless of overailleague standing. 
PRINCE OF WALES CONFERENCE 
Adams Division 

w L T GF GA Pta. x-Montreal 44 15 17 344 210 105 y·Boston 41 26 10 306 271 92 y·Buffa/o 37 25 15 292 258 89 y-Quebec 31 29 16 333 327 78 Hartford 21 38 17 254 330 59 
Patrick Division 

x-N.Y. Islanders 53 15 9 374 237 115 
y-N. Y Rangers 38 26 13 304 295 89 
y-Philadelphra 37 30 10 312 303 84 
y-Prttsburgh 29 36 12 292 326 70 
W~shrngton 24 41 12 306 329 60 
CLARENCE CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
Smythe Dvlslon 

w L T GF GA Pta 
x-Edmonton 46 17 15 408 291 107 
y-Vancouver 28 33 16 273 278 72 
y-Calgary 27 33 17 315 337 71 
y-Los Angeles 24 37 15 302 342 63 
Colorado 17 48 12 234 346 46 
Norris Division 

x-Minnesota 36 21 20 333 275 92 
Winnrpeg 32 30 14 307 316 78 
St. Lours 30 39 8 303 337 68 
Chrcago 28 37 12 320 352 68 
Toronto 20 41 16 290 362 56 
Detrort 20 46 12 265 345 52 
x-Ciinched d1vis1on t1lle 
y-Ciinched playoff spot 
Yeaterday's Result 
N.Y Islanders 7, N.Y. Rangers 3 Today'aGames Buffalo at Quebec Hartford at Montreal Winmpeg at Minnesota 
Toronto at St Louis Los Angeles at Calgary 
See BOARD, page 9 

.,. 



Classifieds 
NOTICES 

Summer Jobs National Park Cos. 21 Parks, 5000 Openrngs. Complete In· formation $5.00. Park Report MissiOn Min. Co.. 651 2nd Ave. W.N., Kalispell, MT 59901. 
TYPING SERVICE 684-4125. 
$50,Q00-$80,000 PER YEAR Are you bored with your job, trred of workrng for the other man. Nat1onal company based rn Lexington, KKentucky looking for five distributors in seven-county aarea. Call1­800·9594 
Gorng to SYRACUSE NY for Easter? I need a rrde both ways, share usual. If YOU need a rrde, call anyway. Maybe we can rent a car. Please call K.C. at 1223 ..... my grandma·s wartrngl 
Srnce when do you jog rn heels and 
gown? Since Nancy Brennan come to town/ 

LOST/FOUND 
REWARD: LOST GOLD NECKLACE WITH CROSS AT CAMPUS VIEW POOL. SENTIMENTAL VALUE. Please call 283-6954 
Lost one pair of orange Lange skr boots at Notre Dame circlr on March 12 rn the af· ternoon. If found please contact Phrl at 3779. Thanks 
LOST: A RED PULL-OVER WHILE JOG· GING AROUND ST. JOES LAKE THE MORNING OF MARCH 23. IT WAS HUNG ON A TREE BRANCH PLEASE CALL RON AT 6261 (200 GRACE) THANK-YOU 
Lost-Notre Dame Monogram 1acket Thursday, March 25 at Senror Bar. I have your jacket. llrs mrssrng two buttons. Call Dave at 8307. 
Found-Monogram jacket at senror bar Thursday, March 25. ou swrtched rt wrth mrne. Call Dave at 8307 
LOST· My v~rgrnrty at approxrmately 1:45 AM on Frrday, March 26 in Drllon Hall. II found, please return to Brrdgene--Rm 547 Regrna South. 
FOUND: 1 (one) srze 34AA Sasson slingshot on the north quad (room and dorm are being wrthheld to protect the rn­nocent 
or guilty ) II you know what rm talk1ng about then come pick rt up rn person. Aloha. P.S. Does Steely Dan ring a bell? 
LOST: Tan tweed jacket, brown suede el­bow patches. Lost before break if found please return to 828 Grace or "!!llJohn at 6721. 
Did someone lose a blue coat in Corby's? I found one that says "IMMACULATE CONCEPTION CHEERLEADERS". Call MIChael at 289-7414 and tell me what night you think you lost your coat. 
Lost-contacts in case Mar. 25. II found please call3522. 

LOST: Kodak lnstamatiC Camera, has an orange case. If found please re•-W. turn to 828 Grace or call John at 6721. 
LOST A GOLD CHAIN AND CRUCIFIX AT THE ROCKNE SWIM OFFICE. "LOST' ON TUESDAY MARCH 23, 1982 IF "FOUND' PLEASE RETURN TO 828 GRACE HALL OR CALL JOHN AT 6721-NO QUESTIONS WILL BE ASKED. HAS MUCH SENTIMMENTAL VALUE 

FOR RENT 

Student housing--clean, safe $100/mo 291-1405 
3·4 bedroom home. furnished, 3 blocks off campus. Th1s summer and/or fall. Graduate students preferred. Call Mr. Noe, 287-9636, days. 
FURNISHED 4 BEDROOM HOUSE. 925 

N. FRANCIS CLOSE TO NO. AVAILABLE FOR SEPT. CALL AFTER 6: 232·0535 
4 Bdrm N Shore $270 mo total. Call Patty 3193228735 Call refunded 

NICE HOUSES FURNISHED CLOSE TO NO FOR NEXT YEAR 2773604 
APT FOR RENT 2880955 
lor rent-srngle bdrm(2 people)CAMPUS VIEW APT for summer rncl swimming pool, carpet, a-c, turn .. drshwasher, dis­posal, and free utrlrtres CALL272-4752 af· ter10pm 

WANTED 

TYPING 28 years as a secretary--excellent typrst, retrred $1 00/page call Phyllrs 259-2501 
Summer Resrdent Camp Staff needed Mrd-June IQ early August. All positrons open: Counselors, Waterfront, Cooks and nurse. Contact Grrl Scouts of Srng1ng Sands, 15985 S.R. 23, Granger, lndrana 46530 219-277 ·0900 
NEED RIDE FOR EASTER to the LEHIGH VALLEY (or anywhere near) rn EASTERN Pa. CAN LEAVE AT NOON 01>1 WED. 4-7 CALL MIKE at a 1787 
Need ride to N.Y C for Sprrng Break! Call 
Pattr at8040 
Ride needed to Ric:hmond, VA or LAxl­ngton, KY for Easter Break. Call L1sa at 8160. 
ATTENTION GRADUATING SENIORS: WORKING IN NEW YORK CITY AFTER GRADUATION? NEED A PLACE TO LIVE? 81 NO GRAD IS LOOKING FOR ROOMMATI; PRESENT ONE IS GOING BACK TO 

GRAD SCHOOL I HAVE A FANTASTICE APARTMENT IN A NICE, SAFE NEIGH-BORHOOD: CLOSE & CONVENIENT TO BOTH DOWNTOWN & MIDTOWN MANHAT­TAN. IF INTERESTED, CALL JOHN AT 
21; 668-3126 DAYTIME OR 
858-7464 NIGHTTIME Ride needed to BUF~ALO tor Easter break. Can leave anytime! Carole -4796 SMC 

Two RIDES NEEDED to Phili or Ban1more -Easter break can leave any ume Mag­han -4 796 SMC 
ATTENTION HAWKEYESII The South Bend branch of Hawkeye World Toura announces wrth regret the demrse of rts crUise shrp "Mrsaligned Nova. The Nova was sunk rn Cedar Falls, Iowa early last week and her rema1ns were sold for scrap. But on Apnl 8. her replacement, the HMS Burck Wagon, will depart on her ma•den voyage from South Bend to Des Mornes. A beautrful Easter tour is planned for several nders and Your Cruise Direc­tor Rachel reports that the accomOdatrons aboard the new sh1p are much improved Captarn Dave rnv1tes all who need a nde 
west along Interstate 80 as far as Des 
Moines to secure their reservations by 
contactrng h1m at 8433 or Crwse Director 
Rachel at 7893 
II you are headrng toward the D.C. or Northam Va. area, or dnving down 1-95 for EASTER break, I would greatly ap­preciate a rrde PLEASE CALL John at 8331. Will share usual 
NEED RIDE TO BUFFALO FOR EAS­TER PLEASE CALL RAY AT 272·1648 
WANTED: Fourth roomate for Campus Vrewapt. for the 1982-83 school year. For info. call Phrl, Eddie, or Steve at 1606 
Rrde needed to Prns. area for Easter Break. Can leave Wed or Thurs. x2843 
Need rrde to NORTH JERSEY for Easter Share $$ Bnan 3648 
NEED RIDE TO AND FROM DAYTON APRIL 2-4 wdl SHARE USUAL CALL CHUCK AT 3375 
FOR SALE 
USED BOOK SHOP HOURS WED , SAT SUN 9-7 CASPERSON 1303 BUCHANAN AD. NILES 
MEN-Show your lady you care wrth a grft of sprrng--a bouquet of fresh cut flowers delivered each week lor 4 weeks WE[).. NESDAY'S FLOWERS 289-1211 

TICKETS 
Need extra tiCkets for graduatiOn. CaJI Mark at 3008. 
need 6 trx for graduallon ceremony bert 1484 
DESPERTEL Y NEED 6 TICKETS FOR THE 1982 GRADUATION CEREMONY. PLEASE CALL JOHN AT 7695 
Please help me 1 naed graduation tick­etsI Call O..W 8922 
PERSONALS 

First Meetrng N.D. Women•• Caucus March 31 '. 8:30, Little Theatre, LaFortune. 
LYONS HALL FOODSALES OFFERS THE BEST IN FRESH, THICK CRUST PIZZA DEUVERED ANYWHERE OON SOUTH QUAD FOR THE NOMINAL CHARGE OF ON SOUTH QUAD FOR THE NOMINAL DEUVERY CHARGE OF THURSDAY NIGKTS FROM 9:30TO 11 AND ORDER YOURS. ALSO: EVERY WEDNESDAY NIGKT. IS GUEST CELEBRITY NIGKT WITH WELL· KNOWN CAMPU$-FIGURES WORKING THE COUNTER! 
JACQUES LE BRUN...TIME IS RUN­NING SHORT .NO WILL SOON BE A THING IN THE PASLBUT THERE IS STILL THE FUTURE IN SO.CALIFORNIA. I WANT TO BE A PART OF THAT FUTURE... I LOVE YOU NOW..IU LOVE YOU THEN ... 
99 Dear LUCY: I LOVE YOUI VICTOR 
THE CIRCUS IS COMINGI THE CIRCUS IS COMING! 
THE CIRCUS IS COMING TOMMOR­ROW! 
II you don ·1 know what you want to do, and don t know how to find out-come to a career plannrng workshop Wednesday, March 31, 3:30-5:30 at the Placement Bureau, Admrnrstratron Burldrng. Room 
222. Srgn up by calling 239-5200 
CAREER PLANNING HELPS. Come to a ca_, planning workshop on Wed­nesday, March 31, 3:30-5:30. Ad­ministration Bldg., Room 222. Sign up by calling 239-5200. 
BICYCLE PICK UP-Gate 14 Stadium, Tuas, Wad, Thurs. 30, 31, 1. Each day from 1 to 4 p.m. Bring TAG to claim bike. Don't forget your BIKES/ 
BICYCLE PICK UP TODAY, 1-4 p.m. Gate 14 Stadium. Bring tag lor ID. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY LINDA HORNING. ENJOY THIS. THE BEST DAY OF THE YEAR! 
SIMILARLY BLESSED 
Cheryl, 

Happy brrthday you shellfish person 
May the nerve be with you throughout thrs 
comrng year -you are of age plus one 
year of experrence. so use rt!!! Its trme to 
lose a few more test pornts. Celebrate and 
have fun 
lrfwhrte rabbrt 

Rob, Have a very merry cheery cherry brrthday! Love, Terry 
Hollywood Gala 
Apn/2, 1982 

The "Show .. must go on 
...o.k. heres what rts all about: I ve 
created my own An Tostal event called 
Stuff Simon One day durrng An Tostal I 
want to run a stnp w1th as many people as 
poss1ble rncluded... Thus, I shall frll the 
frames wtth car~cature, and I'd like to use 
real people. so rf you would like to ap­
pear rn cartoon form. then rapidly marl 
1 )photo, 2)name. and 3)address to: 
Stuff Simon 
c.o. Jell Caahln BoxQ. 
TheObeerwr 
P.S. Jhanks to Ed and Ryan for JOimng 1n... USe campus mad; rt·s tree!! 
The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However. classifieds to appear 1n the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or through the mail. 
MIKE GUROAK FOR U.M.O.C ...... HE REALLY WANTS ITIIII 
Mus Asaaaaln.•• 
...no one can stop it... 
BAND MEMBER$-NO CUT MEETING TONIGHT (Tues. 30) 7 p.m. in the bandroom for electron nomrnatrons. Be There!! 
GUESS WHATS COMING IN TWO DAYS??? 
JEFF LINDHOLM:Are you still readrng the personals? 
SIGN-UPS lor Sophomore Literary Fes­tival berng taken at Student Union Office, 2nd floor LaFortune Charrman of Ex­ecutrve Committee, All posrtrons open. Signups March 30 -Aprrl 2 
Staff I think we need a hnle OrrgernizatiOn around here. 
SLY FOX 
SLY FOX 
SLY FOX 
SEE SLY FOX 
SEE SLY FOX 
SEESLYFOX 
LIKE MASH? SEE THE SAME WRITERS PLAY. SLY FOX APRIL 1.2 &3 
AnToatal 
Ultimate Frlsi:Me T oumament 
Srgn-ups on Wednesday (3/31) at 3·5 pm 
1n LaFortune S1x to twelve male and/or 
female pia yers per ·team $3 entry tee 
Pnzes to f1nal two teams 
Catch Frisbee Fever! 
DEAR N.D. MEN: 
·sprrng rsthe umewhen a young mans 
laney oft turns to thoughts of love Well 
guys, Spring is here but where rs the love? 
There are lantastrc women out here who 
are wartrng for you to 9et off of your butts 
and start your SPRING FLINGS! We·ve 
had enough of the coyness of the NO 
scene! Qurt berng rntrmrdated by the un· 
balanced ratro. Many voluptuous women 
are dateless for precrsel y that reason! Get 
some courage--be MEN and prck up 
those phones and ask a woman on a date 
YOU WON'T REGRET ITI Truly, 
The Fhng·Hungry Women of NO 
(PS-We re not all fat, dull, & ugly!) 
Rrde needed FROM MIDWAY airport Sunday afternoon 4/4 Meghan 4796 SMC 
40 gallons of hunch punch, 12 gallons of screwdrrvers, COPY EDITOR!!/ DELETE THIS!!! DAVE GROTE 10 cases of beer good musiC hundreds of fantastiC people and the best party throwers on campus--SA Flanner "aw&some" 
HUNCH IV 40 gallons of hunch punch 12 gallons of screwdrrers. 10 case of beer, good mUSic, hundrads of fantastiC people, and the best party-throwers on campus--­3A HANNER "aW9SOm9" 
What soph celebrates his 20th 8-day tOday? Hrnt-Ask Dave·s socks, 241 Keenan Mary, Lynne & Karen 
Anne Elizabeth Sheedy You party animal (cocker spanrel). You·re a life saver. Of course rm talking about some certain dark He1nies (pretty tasty) Don't beat up on any more rnnocent muggers and keep workrng on that cheerleadrng routrne. C­0-0-L 
TO THE 25 LEFTIST PHILOSOPHY GRAD STUDENTS IN THE EL SAL­VADOR SOLIDARITY GROUP: CON­GRATS ON YOUR MARCH, IT WAS GOOD TRAINING FOR YOUR NEXT JOBAS INSURANCE SALESPERSONS 
Partrcrpate in Respect Lrfe Week Attend the follow1ng lectures Tonrght 7 PM ENG. AUD. Juli Loesch: Nukes and the Next GeneratiOn WED. 8 PM Stapleton Lounge SMC Dr Charles R1ce: The LegaJiSIIC Aspects of Abort ron and Its Importance 1n TOday s Socrety THURS 7 PM Lrbrary AUD. Charles Donovan: Government 
Polley on the R~ght to L1fe 

M P --IGNORO EL PERDEDOR PQR COMPLETOII 
SLY FOX 

HELP! Need nde to BUFFALO for Eas­ter.. wrll pay $$ 
Monk-Once was not enough, tw1ce was not enough, thnce IS fourteen enough? 
fr ted hesburgh wrll speak at walsh hall. wednesday. march 31st, 7:30pm 

.WALSH HOOPSTERS: Thanks for the brg feast and for the oppurtunrty to develop and exploit your many talents Love Jrm,Frank and Halebag 
CABARET IS COMING!!! 
Frfteen, gorng once, gorng twrce, gone! Sold to the Monk rn the frrst row 
MUSUMECI for UMOC! Mother knows best! 

Want to wm a pnze? F1gure out Toms secret word and find out hiS secret pas­srons Rachel and Cheryl, you'd better hire an private investigator bbefore he acts on his asptrations. 
Dear MOM. Just three more days to the weekend! G S.C 555$$$ 
BRIAN CALLAGHAN· GLAD YOU ENJOYED THE T&A PERSONALLY, I NEVER LAUGHED HARDER IN MY LIFE. BUT THEN, YOU WEREN T TOO BAD FOR A BEGINNER LF 
Tree Surgeons of America: 
UNITE 
Q: Whats the difference between a tree and real sex? 1 
A: Ifyou don't know, you don't belong . 

Wellva,-die, But-don'tknow why It doesn't m-anymore. The Peon Poet 
The Observer -Sports Tuesday, March 30,1982-page 9 

UNC's Jordan hits shot of his dreatns 
NEW ORLEANS(AI')-Freshman forward Michael Jordan said he hit the game-winning ~hot for North Carolina twice last night, once in a pregame vision and once with I 5 se 1 conds left in the NCAA's college championship game. 
"It was on the way over here,")or­
dan said in the dressing room 
de~ribing his premonition. "I was 
really thinking ahcmt the game, 
thinking hard. 
"The other guys were here last 
year, but it was my t1r~t time. I 
wanted 10 go that extra step. I was 
thinking th game might come down 
10 a last-second shot, I saw myself 
taking it and hitting it." 
The shot was a I8-toot jumper and it swished through. Although)ordan saw the shot in his vision, he said he didn't see the real one go through. 
"I didn't want to look," he said af­ter the game. Teammate Matt Doherty said the shot saved him from being the goat. 
Doheny missed the front end of a 1-and-1 with Nonh Carolina leading 61-60, and Georgetown roared down the floor to take a 62-61 lead on a 10-foot jumper by Eric "Sleepy" Floyd with 55 seconds left. 
"At that point, I thought I had let the guys down," Doheny said. "I just hoped I'd get another chance." 
It was the first national champion­ship for North Carolina Coach Dean Smith, and It came on his seventh trip to the Final Four. 
Forward )ames Worthy, who was 
named outstanding player for his 28­
point effon said It was one of the 
most exciting games in which he 
had ever played. 
"I don't think either team had four 
or five points at any time. It kept 
going back and fonh," Worthy said. 
"That's the way it should be in the 
national championships," Worthy 
said. "This is what we've been 
... Board 

continuedfrom page 8 
,BASKETBALL 
NBA E..tern Conference Atlenllc Olvl•lon 

w L  Pet. GB  
y-Soston  55 16  775  
y-Ph1tadelph1a  49 21  700 55  
Wash•ngton  36 34  514 18.5  
New Jersey  36 36  500 19 5  
New York  30 41  423 25  
Central Olvl•ton  
x·MIIwaukee  48 23  676  
Atlanta  35 35  500 12 5  
Detro1t  34 37  479 14  
lnd1ana  32 39  451 16  
Chicago  29 41  414 18 5  
Cleveland  15 55  214 32.5  
Weetern ConNtenc:e  
M-IllOlvlelon  
W L  Pet. GB  
San AntoniO  44 27  620  
Denver  40 30  .571 3.5  
Houston  40 32  556 45  
KansasC1ty  25 46  .352 19  
Dallas  24 47  338 20  
Utah  19 53  264 255  
PIICiftc Olvlelon  
Los Angeles  48 23  676  
Seattle  48 24  657 1.5  
Golden State  39 32  549 9  
Phoentx  39 32  549 9  
Portland  35 35  500 12.5  
San D1ego  16 55  225 32  
x-Chnched diVISIOn IItie  
y-Chnched playoff spot  

Ye•terd•y·• Re•uh 

PhoeniX 113, Utah 102 
Sund•y'• RHuh• Philadelphia 118, Boston 98 lnd1ana 102, ChiCago 101 Los Angeles 116, Kansas C11y 111 Houston 94. Golden Slate 92 Seattle 109, Portland 101 New Jersey 113, New York 106 Washington 104, Cleveland 101 
Seturd•y'• Reauh• 

Detroll123, New Jersey 121 Atlanta 98, Dallas 85 San AntoniO 114, Utah 110 Denver 140, Phoentx 132 (2 OT) Milwaukee 128, San D1ego 99 
Tod•y'•G...,.. Indiana at New York Detro•t at Wash•ngton Ph1ladelph1a at M•lwaukee 
Golden State at San AntoniO Atlanta at ChiCago Dallas at Houston Seattle at Denver San D1ego at Los Angeles Kansas C1ty at Portland 
working for. It's just great. I'm glad we won for our coach, ourselves and our university." 
Senior guard Jimmy Black said before the game that he wanted to win the game for his coach. After the game, he said he felt the victory took a lot ofpressure offSmith. 
"Now they won't be able to say he chokes at the big game," Black said in a post-game 1 press conference. 
"Thanks Jimmy," said Smith, who sh~red the rostrum. 
Smith, Thompson 'go way back' 
By HAL BOCK 
AP Sports Writer 
When their teams met for the NCAA bas~etball championship last night, it was a reunion for coaches John Thompson of Georgewwn and Nonh Carolina's Dean Smith. 
In 1976, they sat next to each other in Montreal, Smith as head coach and Thompson as one of his assistants with the U.S. Olympic bas­ketball team. 
Together, they molded a team 
which returned the gold medal to 
the United States that year. It was a 
club with a distinctly Carolina hue. 
Smith took a host of Tar Heels' 
players to Montreal with him, 
people like Phil Ford, Tom LaGarde, 
Mitch Kupchak and Walter Davis. 
There were some whispered com­
plaints that Smith had played 
favorites, loading the team with his 
own players. But they were quieted 
by the results. The Americans played 
inspired, brilliant basketball, 
displaying a controlled game that 
never got away from them. 
The Olympic adve~ture began at North Carolina State University, site of the U.S. trials, where Smith pared l 00 or so hopefuls to a team of 15. It continued on an ambitious barnstorming tour as Smith cut his roster to the final 1 2 -the four North Carolina players, Quinn Buck­ner and Scott May of Indiana, Tate Armstrong of Duke, Adrian Dantley of Notre Dame, Ernie Grunfeld of Tennessee, Kenny Carr of N.C. State, Phil Hubbard of Michigan and Steve Sheppard of Maryland. 
Then through two weeks in the tiny Etienne Desmarteau gym on the outskirts ofMontreal, where the ear­ly games of the Olympic tournamnt were played, the coaches set about the task of honing the team. Finally, the climax was reached in the Montreal Forum, where the Americans beat the Yugoslavian team for the championship. 


This scene of Georgetown jubilation from Saturday's Hoya victory over Louisville was not to be repeated last night, as the Big East Con-


Here's to the losers: Scenes from the Final Four 

University of Houston Coach Guy Lewis Orleans. Lewis reached the 1968 finals with agonizes over his team's defeat to eventual NG4A Houston before losing to Lew A lcindor and UCLA. champion North Carolina on Saturday in New (APphoto). 
BAGGAGE TRUCKS Applications for May and August are now available in the Student Activities Office. N 0 fee required. 
As a service to students, the application procedure is mandatory. This procedure will eliminate any duplication of service (and inevitable financial loss for you). Also, having 
all trucks registered enables our office to assist students looking for ways to ship their baggage and enables you to obtain more customers and access to campus parking for pick-ups and drop-offs. 
Deadline for applying is Monday, AprilS. Notification in most cases will be April6. 
• 

Tuesday, March 30,1982-page 10 

Perry shoots for immortality 
The Observer -Sports 

PALM SPRINGS, Cal. -Ordinarily, when a blue­jowled veteran ofthe pitching.wars, ofhundreds ofbig­league starts, comes to spring training camp, he's 


Jim Murray

allowed to set his own pace -a few leisurely ap­
pearances, mild sit-ups, wind sprints. No curveballs, 
elbow-jarring fast balls. He works on control and 
loosening the over-the-winter adhesions. They don't Best of Jim Murray 
count strikeouts in March; the spring training ERA is as 
meaningless as a politician's smile. celebrated for the wrong thing. His name is associated 
So, why is Gaylord Perry busting that fast one on the with a four-letter world, his career rated "R" in some 
outside corner of the plate? Why is he trying to set up quarters. "S-p-i-t," a horrid word anywhere, is par­
Reggie Jackson for the forkball inside? Why is he ticularly abhorrent ifyou're major league batter. 
working the corners, moving the ball in-and-out, acting It's preposterous to think a man could win 300 major 
as if this were October and the World Series was on the league games with one (illegal) pitch. Gaylord Perry 
line? had every pitch Christy Mathewson or Grover Alexan­
Because he's trying to make the club, that's why. der had. But when he first came up to the Giants, they 
Oh, not the Seattle Mariners. That bunch of rinky­had other candidates for Cy Young's footsteps -Juan 
dinks and whozits and the field full of My-God-does-he­Marichal, Mike McCormick, Billy O'Dell, to name a few. 
call-himself-a-major-leaguers? Perry crept up on history. But you don't cheat your way 
Gaylord's trying to make a lineup that consists not of into the Hall ofFame. You can't spit 300 wins. 
these guys but of Ruth, Gehrig, DiMaggio, Mays, Musial, Perry's stock-in-trade was taking advantage ofhitters. 
Aaron, Cobb, Hornsby, Mantle and Williams. He wants He knew how to doctor a baseball, but he was better at 
to get on a rotation with WalterJohnson, Christy Mathe­doctoring a hitter.. Bob Shaw, a journeyman pitcher 
wson, Cy Young and Grover Cleveland. He's bucking who fell 192 wins short of 300. taught Gaylord the 
for a higher league -Cooperstown. The Immortal loaded pitch. But Gaylord learned more about it from 
League. Don Drysdale who never showed him a thing in person. 
You see, only 14 pitchers have won more baseball "In those years, I noticed how our players were more games than Gaylord Perry. With only four wins, he can worried about Drysdale going to his belt, to his cap, to pass two ofthem. With 11 wins, he can pass five ofthem his pocket than what he'd throw. They'd think 'Oh, oh, and tie a sixth. there is comes!' and they'd come hack to the bench and 
The usual rationale of a returning veteran under say 'Well, he did it to me again.' It occurred to me if it these circumstances is summed up in the baseball worried them that much, it was another p!>)'Chological platitide "I can help this club." Gaylord Perry can't help weapon for the pitcher. Anything you can get to break a this club. God himself would have trouble helping this hitter's concentration is a big plus," Gaylord Perry club. Nor can this club help Gaylord Perry. As usual he recalled as he sat by the Seattle Mariners' dugout down has to do it himself. here the other morning. 
Gaylord Perry is 43 years old. His hair is almost gone Seattle's Ancient Mariner has had a good spring for and so is his fastball. But Gaylord Perry is as stubborn as the oldest living inhabitant ofthe game. Nor is Gaylord a cowlick. He comes from the hardwood country of pitching entirely for posterity. A man who has never North Carolina, and you could make a kitchen table out had a sore arm -or a swollen head -the only pitcher of him. When he says he didn't come back to baseball ever to win a Cy Young Award in both leagues, Perry has "just to win three games," you have to believe him. He a peanut farm to support. came to strike out 172 more guys, for one thing. If he And his deal with Seattle is on the If-Come line. does that, h?ll be the all-time strikeout leader of major Gaylord gets J40,000 ifhe makes the club. He can earn league baseball. Nolan Ryan, eat your heart out. up to S180,000 in incentive bonuses if he goes all the · 
Gaylord Perry would probably go to the Hall ofFame way. Or he can go back to the farm, cut, with only without 300 wins, but to fall short now would be a ~lap 57,000. Since Gaylord Perry has never been a gambling in the face from history -like the pilot who gets shot man, hhe always likes the percentages on his side, the down on Armistice Day, the miler whose all-time tops way to bet is that he will end up with his 300 wins, was four minutes and 1/100 of a second, the basketeer 3,500 strikeouts, and, somewhere between S40,000 who scores 99 points, the high jumper who raps out at and Sl80,000, a wet finger, and a ticket to 
7-11. Cooperstown. Gaylord Perry is a surprise entry to the hall of the immortals anyway. Gaylord has spent his entire career 
Copyright by Los Angeles Times, 19111 

AtFinalFour 
Name ofthegame ismoney 
NEW ORLEANS (AP) -College Notre Dame Coach Digger Phelps, Also, most coaches, even aware of 
basketball's Final Four is the Super in a sensational kiss-and-tell revela­such skullduggery, are hesitant Bowl in tassles and bows. It's tion last week, said the going rate about blowing the whistle, as Phelps baseball's World Series with among some colleges for top talent did. They fear it would damage the sneakers and mini-skirted cheer­is no,ooo a year. sport beyond repair. 
leaders instead of cleats and Oregon State's Ralph Miller, The NCAA, sitting on a gold mine, pinstripes. named "Coach of the Year" by The is pussy-footed in its enforcement 
By any measure, it is definitely Associated Press, says the figure is practices. Super Ball. It's America's newest conservative. Although technically an amateur sports addiction. It's young, it's loud, "They were talking about that sport -otherwise, why does the it's big and it's loaded. much money 10 years ago," he said. NCAA stress "student athletes" ­
Forget that it ·comes off the na­"Now we've got inflation." television gives it a big-time, com­tion's campuses, played by what the On the secret, under-the-table mercial tag. NCAA naively refers to as "student market, the value of Georgetown's CBS grabbed the Big Four jewel athletes." 7-foot freshman, Pat Ewing, probab­with a S48 million contract covering It's a professional production, ly would be lll 00,000 a year. The three years. This fattens a lot of col­from the mammoth spotlights han­pros would give him S 1 million. lege budgets. ging from the roof to the hardware Most coaches, leveling, concede The 48 teams selected for the final floor. there are rampant abuses but claim playoffs get S110,000 each. There is 
It is played by agile, beanpole men there are many more "clean" a 5330,000 windfall for the 16 who are recruited as assiduously as a coaches, at least unaware of hidden regional qualifiers. The Final Four big corporation might search for a bonuses provided by overly zealous teams get 5440,000 apiece. 
young executive. alumni and benefactors. 
Photographers... 
Writers... 

Layout Designers ... 
Typists... 

Former High School Yearbook Staffers ... ... the 1983 DOME Yearbook needs you. Please contact Jane at 239-7524 between 6pmand lOpm Monday and Tuesday, March 29 and 30. Paid Editorial and Staff Positions available. 
If money, as they say, corrupts, it's 
easy to understand if not approve of 
the fierce and illegal recruiting tac­
tics. 
Yet, with all its cold and mercen­
ary aspects, college basketball 
maintains a certain amount ofunder­
graduate innocence. 
In college basketball, it's impor­
tant to be on the ~ene, wearing ·team colors, cheering and waving pompons, even ifyou have to sit 400 
feet away as at the Superdome. 
The Big Four is an inflated version of the Texas-Oklahoma football game in Dallas, UCLA-Southern Cal or Tennessee-Alabama 
But make no mistake about it, it 
still is strictly business with an ac­
c~nt on the cash register and thus it 
shall remain until de-emphasis 
comes. 

They were rivals last n left) of Georgetown and Dean Smith ofNorth Carolina are old friends. Smith once recruited players from Thompson's high school, and both helped coach the 1976 Olympic team to the gold medal. See related story on page9. ( APphoto) 
...Lacrosse 
continuedfrom page 12 
the first game against the Michigan Lacrosse Club, 11-8, and then drop­ping a 17-14 decision to the Chicago Lacrosse Club. 
In the Michigan game, the Irish scored first and never trailed en route to the victory. The good play carried over to the first quarter of the Chicago game. Using crisp passes and an impressive fast break, the Irish jumped to a quick lead. 
However, the Chicago team, described by O'Leary as "smarter" and "more experienced" because most of the players have graduated from college teams, turned things around in a hurry. 
By the beginning of the last quar­ter, Chicago was up by six and the Irish could not make up the dif­ference. 
The next home game is April l 0 at 

l:30 p.m. against league foe Wooster College. 

Aprill-Thurs.-6-8 p.m. 
Haggar Hall Auditorium 
Guest from Illinois Univ. will share ·experienceswith equipment and legality of drinking, driving, and student involvement. 
lh~r.======~============================== 



T0 d~x•l:.==============T=u=e=sd=a=y,=M=ar=c=h=3=o:;:,I=9=B=2=p=a=g=e=II
Molarity Michael Molinelli 
Campus 

.. 

., 


13eats(;eorgeto~ 

Carolina 'Worthy'ofNCAA title 
NEW ORLEANS(AP)-Freshman Michael Jordan hit an 18-foot jum­per with 15 seconds left and James Worthy won the duel of dunks with 
.,. Patrick Ewing to give North Carolina its first NCAA basketball champion­ship under Coach Dean Smith with a 63-62 victory over Georgetown last night. Worthy scored a career-high 28 points and his steal, coming on a giveaway pass from Georgetown's Fred Brown with 10 seconds left, insured North Carolina the national title and finally lifted the monkey from Smith's back. The North Carolina coach had taken six previous teams to the Final Four and came up empty-handed each time, but this time it was Worthy, Sam Perkins and Jordan who delivered the championship 
trophy into the hands ofSmith in his .._ 21st season as coach of the Tar Heels. 
The battle between the front line of North Carolina -6-9 junior Worthy and 6-9 sophomore Perkins -and the 7-foot Georgetown monolith, Ewing, produced one of the closest title games in recent his­tory. 
Not since 1959 had there been an NCAA championship decided by one point. California won that title by beating West Virginia, 71-70, but the past 22 title games have, for the most part, been blowouts. 
This game was undecided until the very end. Eric "Sleepy" Floyd had given Georgetown a 62-61 lead when he worked into the lane and fired up a 10-footer with 57 seconds 
..,.. to play. 
North Carolina, already in a slow­down for the past four minutes, called time out with 32 seconds left, then worked the ball around the perimeter and Jordan threw up the 
game-winner from the left side. 
As Georgetown brought the ball down court, Brown turned to his right and tossed the ball into Worthy's hands. Worthy then headed toward the Georgetown bas­ket, and was intentionally fouled by Eric Smith with two seconds remain­ing. Worthy missed the two foul shots, but the victory had been sealed. 
Smith, criticized as a coach who couldn't win the "big one," finally ended all that talk. As fans and photographers swarmed onto the court, first Worthy, then the coach, were lifted onto teammates' shoul­ders to begin the traditional cutting down of the net at the Louisiana Su­perdome, where a crowd in excess of 61,000 watched for the second time in the past three days. 
Smith finally won the champion­ship with a team that had perhaps the best starting five of his career and compiled a record of 32-'l, his best at North Carolina. 
"I'm very grateful to my players. We played probably the best team we've seen all year, along with Vir­ginia," said Smith. 
The loss ended Georgetown's best season ever with a 30-7 record, but the Hoyas were foiled in their first championship game since 1943 when they lost 46-34 to Wyoming. 

No more than four points separated the two teams in the second half and Jordan's winning basket produced the ninth lead change ofthe half. 
Jordan said his game-winning shot came on "a set play. IfI had an open shot, coach said 'Go ahead and take it."' 
The show, however, belonged to Worthy and Ewing, both of whom brought the crowd cheering to its feet with mammoth slam dunks. Worthy had four dunks in the second half, including one over Floyd, his junior high school buddy, that produced a three-point play and pulled the Tar Heels within one point with II:52 left. 
Lacrosseteam splits ; opensleagueschedule 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
This is a very important week for the Notre Dame lacrosse team as it begins its Midwest Lacrosse Associa­tion schedule this week with two away matches against Michigan State and Ohio Wesleyan. 
On Wednesday the team travels up north to East Lansing to take on Michigan State. Last-place finishers in their division last year, the Spar­tans are looking to pull themselves out ofthe cellar. 
"Michigan State has a new coach," says Irish coach Rich O'Leary, "and he has been trying to get some good players from the East, especially from New England. They may have finished last in the division last year, but they'll be better." 
O'Leary and the team realize the importance of getting off on their MLA schedule on the right foot, but possibly the most important game of the week will occur Saturday when the Irish visit perennial Midwest lacrosse power Ohio Wesleyan. 


Inside Interhall 

'Chief' leads Zahm over Planner, 5-1 
MEN'S BASEBALL -Dave "Chief' Miller pitched the entire game for Zahm, allowing only one run as the"Kingsmen" beat Flanner, 5-1. Pete Guilfoilp had two hits and two stolen bases in the game while captain Bob 1-icKelvey and his brother Tom each batted in one run. 
MEN'S SOFTBALL -Zahm's softball team put it to St. Ed's yester­day, out-scoring them, 15-8. Kevin Kearney's fifth inning two-run homer broke a tie score. Captain Paul Smith also had a four-base blast along with two doubles. Rounding out the scoring, Jim Malkus had a triple and two doubles with teammate Mike Hanifan driving in five runs. 
WOMEN'S SOCCER -Badin edged Walsh by a single goal last night, winning 1-0, as the tournament got underway. At the same time Badin got its first win, Breen-Phillips was handing Pasquerilla East its first defeat by a score of 2-0. 
WRESTLING -The conslation matches for this springs wrestling tournament will begin at 4 p.m. this afternoon and will be followed by the finals at 8 p.m. Both matches will take place in the ACC Pit. 
DEADLINES -A last minute reminder to all those wishing to play in this spring's soccer tournament -that all entries are due today to the NVA office by 5 p.m. 
All entries for the men's, women's and grad tennis tournament should be submitted to the NVA office by no later than 5 p.m. tomor­row, March 31. 
Ohio Wesleyan, along with Denison, are the teams that are favored to take the MLA championship. 
The Irish, on their part, are trying to improve on their 5-5 record in the league last year. These upcoming games will be very important if the Irish hope to make a run at the cham­pionship. 
The Midwest Lacrosse Associa­tion in which the Irish compete is composed of eight teams placed in two divisions of four teams. The other teams in Notre Dame's divi­sion are Michigan State, Ohio State and Ashland College. The teams in the other division include Denison, Ohio Wesleyan, Kenyon College and Wooster College. Each team plays the other teams in its division twice and teams in the otherdivision once. 
The Irish split two exhibition games this past weekend, winning 
See LACROSSE, page 10 
Tuesday, March 30,1982 -page 12 

North Carolina Coach Dean Smith hadgood reason to smile last night after claiming his first NC4A college basketball national championship. His team, the Tar Heels, defeated the Georgetown Hoyas, 63-62, last night in New Orleans. See story at left, and related stories on pages 9 and 10. (APphoto). 
Cletnsonsnext on NCAA inquiry list 
CLEMSON, S.C. (AP) -The Na­tional Collegiate Athletic Associa­tion has notified Clemson University, last season's national col­lege football champions, that an offi­cial inquiry is being made into its football program, university officials 
said yesterday. Clemson University President Bill 
L. Atchley issued a brief statement yesterday confirming the university has received notice of the inquiry but did not elaborate. 
"It is a football investigation, I can say that," the school's associate sports information director, Tim Bourret, said in deferring all other questions to the president's office. 
"Clemson, in accordance with the stated policy of the NCAA to keep matters under inquiry confidential, will not issue any comment until af­ter the matter has been investigated by the university and a hearing has been held by the NCAA committee on infractions," Atchley said. 
"At such time, Clemson Univer­sity and the NCAA will issue a press release disclosing the findings ofthe NCAA committee on infractions." 
Neither Atchley nor Head Foot­ball Coach Danny Ford could be reached for comment. 
The NCAA's interest in Clemson has been reported for several months. 



INSIDE: 
Murray on Perry --page 10 
More on NCAA --pages 9&1 0 






