
~------~-----­
.Readership Forum -page 5 

till" llldcpcndnH ~tuduH llt'\\ ~p.tpt-r ~en mg notre dame and ~a1111 mar.·~ Tl'ESDAY. DECE:\IBER -. 19H2 
River City cancels another concert trip 

By DAVID DZIEDZIC Kernan did not charter any buses for Executive News Editor the trip. An Indiana Motorbus repre­sentative said that no reservations 
For the second time in two were made. months, River Citv Records has can­Kernan cancelled the trips for the celled a bus trip to a Chicago Who October 5 and 6 concerts at the rock concert within two days of the Rosemont Horizon, claiming that his event. ticket agent had backed out ofa ver­
Peter). Kernan, proprietor of the bal agreement ti.>r 280 tickets. South Bend record store, blamed the At that time, Kernan was trip's cancellation on "a rash ofcan­criticized by several Notre Dame cellations by people who had com­students who had purchased tickets mitted to the trip over the past I 0 and were never informed of the days." The concert is set for tomor­trip's cancellation. Several students row night at the Rosemont Horizon. claimed that thev didn't receive im­
Kernan admits that he does not mediate refunds.' have tickets for tomorrow night's Kernan hopes, however, to notify show, but claims that the recent can­each patron of the latest cancella­cellation is not due to lack of tickets. tion. "Most of them are already in­He blames the upcoming satellite tormed," he said last night. "Refunds presentation at Stepan Center of the will be made by mail beginning later Who's Toronto concert for dampen­this week." ing interest in tomorrow night's Kernan emphatically denied that show. tomorrow's trip was cancelled due 

Polish Marshall Law leader General Wojciech jaruzelski, center, visits coal miners in Silesia, concert are still
"The tickets to a lack of tickets. "I have an agree­
Poland, as part ofCoal Miners Day. (AP Photo) 
available to me through Chicago ment with a ticket broker for the ticket brokers," Kernan told The Ob­tickets," he said. "But I was forced to server yesterday. "I had sold over call and cancel the order. 100 bus packages for Wednesday's "I was faced with two options. I
ND Placement Bureau 
show and had reserved three buses could have bought all of the tickets I from Indiana Motorbus. But ever had reserved, taken the :\5 people to since the Notre Dame Student Union 
the concert, and scalped the rest of

Stanelle discusses job interviewing 
announced their De~. 17 satellite the tickets. But I chose to cancel the show, we've had about 70 cancella­trip instead for moral reasons."
By DAN MCCULLOUGH fered the "costs ot tailure versus the Looking into the future, Stanelle tions. The tickets, according to Kernan,
StaffReporter rewards of success" theory. Job claimed that the job market is still 
"We only have :\5 people left who could be sold for at least S:\0 a piece.
seekers should look at the costs of bright for engineering and business are interested. It would not be t1nan­The Dec. I 7 concert will beDescribing the job market as a not getting a job, instead of the majors, but that, eventually, the arts ciall yfeasible for me to continue the shown at Stepan Center. The"percentage game," Robert Stanelle, benefits of the desired position, and letters graduates will surpass the rrip." Campus Entertainment Network, a manager of recruitment and college when the rejection ofthe job market others in position and income be­A former employee of River City newly-formed college concertrelations for Dresser Atlas, a division gets them down. cause of their ability to be more Records, however, said that the trip promotion firm, will provide theof Dresser Industries of Houston, Written skills more important well-rounded, and therefore more was a "sham from the word go. Ker­concert via satellite. The Notrelectured last night in Nieuwland on than oral skills with employers, able to handling real world situa­nan never had tickets for this con­Dame Student Union is handling"How to market yourself for a job in since applicants with sloppy tions. 
cert, just as he nev-::r had tickets for ticket sales. So far, less than :\00 tick­a tight economy or how to get the resumes probably will not even The lecture ended the last day of 
the October concerts." ets have been sold, according to
job when no one really wants you." receive an interview, Stanelle went the Placement Bureau's recruiting The Observer also has learned that concert commissioner Bill O'Hayer. 
Stanelle gave the predominantly on to say. He told the group that drive for this semester. female group some tips on preparing their resumes should be updated a resume, writing the cover letter, and accurate, emphasizing neatness. and getting ready for the interview Death toll at 6
Objectives should be clearly stated, at the lecture, which was sponsored while at the same time reflecting by the Notre Dame Placement realism. Eagerness should permeate Bureau. He told the group that the the resume since "you are selling 


Bomb blasts in Northern Ireland 
future of the job market is unclear, yourself, and there is no one else hut will most likely repond to the who is going to do it for you." BELFAST, Northern Ireland ( AP) daughters. They are using their Catholic Irish Republic. cyclical changes in the economy. A cover letter should accompany -A bomb blast last night at a village hands to scrape away the rubble." The police press officer said the 
The graduate who has decided to the resume and should be per­tavern frequented by British soldiers No gwup immediately claimed bomb went off without warning at enter the job market must t1r~t rank sonalized for every seperate com­brought the roof crashing down on rcsponsihilty. But suspiCIOn in­about 11:15 p.m. (6:15p.m. EST) the type of job he is looking for pany. Although it is the "biggest pain the crowded dance floor, killing at evitably fell on guerillas of the main­during a regular Monday night disco against the amount of money paid, in the world," the applicant should least six people and injuring -iS ly Roman Catholic Irish Republican dance at the Droppin Well Bar the location of the job, and other make a statement about every com­others, police reported. It was Army. who are t1ghting to drive thc regularly used by British troops sta­personal factors before entering the pany even if it means a few nights at feared the death toll would rise. British from !\Jorthern Ireland and tioned at a Royal Air Force base at market. While the best paying jobs the local library doing a little Rescue teams using a crane fought unite the predominantly Protestant Ballykelly, 50 miles northwest of tend to be in the big cities, Stanelle research, he said. The applicant to free at least two victims known to province with the overwhelmingly here. said that it is better to choose a job in should let potential employers he trapped alive under the rubble of the area in which he desires to live. know that he is familiar with their the Droppin Well Bar in the villagt. rather than take a particular job in a company, and will be a valuable as­of Ballykelly, 50 miles northwest of city in which he does not wish to set if given the chance. he Belfast. settle. daborated. A press oftker at Belfast police 


Significant role taken 
Stanelle advbed potential job­Standle's tlrst hit of· advice headquarters said another large seekers to move to their desired area concerning the interview wa~ to crane was being sent from Belfast to for at least thrn· months, and take sneak into the oftke heti.>rehand and the village. which is near one of the 
any job in order to continue paying notice the attire of the oftke largest British military bases in 
by Church in Brazil 
the rent. while continuing 10 look employees. When preparing t(>r the northwestern Northern Ireland. ti.>r the dcsirnl job. "It is not as interview, dre~s accordingly. he Police listed the dead as three By MARGO MISCHLER Church has taken a more active role frightening to go into a job interview said. Thb will give a psychological British soldiers and three civilians. in social concerns, Mainwaring said.
.\'eu•s Staff 
when you know where your next advantage to the applicant. since he and said I 0 soldins were among the Economic difficulties of more than mr:al is coming from." Stanelle will seem to tit in. Do n>ur wounded. The progressive factions of the half the population. repression of addnl. homework .on the company.' he The Belfast press officer said many Catholic Church have been some of the Church itself, and the absence of 
After determining if tht· po.,ition prepared to tell them whar 1·ou ofthe victims were t<~ken in<~ tleet of most signit1cant forces of social other institutions to act on the desired i~ JChievahle. the hopeful know about them: and he e;;rlv. ambulance~ to Londonderry. 10 justice in Brazil, according tQ Profes­problems caused the Church to take graduate mu.,t go out "knocking on ~tandle stres~t·<L . miles <!Wa\·. sor Scott .\tainwaring of Stanford a progressive stance, he said. 
doors" The more jobs for which one .\lost important of all. lw said. The har was on the ground tloor of l niversity, spt·aking last night in Groups such as the Pastoral Land applu.:s. the better i.' the percentage when an~wcrin)! question., he sure a two-story building. with a souvenir Hayes-Healy Auditorium. Commission. which protects far­of linding one Standie told students to make your "plusses plu~~es and shop on the second tloor. His lecture. entitled "The Church mers's rights and the Slum Land that tht·re was no difference he­your minu~ses plusses". .\Irs . .\lairad Peoples, owner of a and Politics in Brazil: !'leV.· Direc­Commission. which defends the ur­tween starting with a large company nearby hotel. said. "I saw pn>ple tions ti.>r an Old Institution," ex­ban poor, have been formed as a 
Standle. speakmg as a proks­
a., oppo.,nl 10 a smaller one. aside of being carried out bur. thcy were so plained the role of the Church in result of the Church's increased in­
sional interviewer. said that the
the fal'tthat the large companies en­badly mutilatcd I couldn't look. The Brazil. the wap in which the Church terest in social justice, according to 
chief points the applicant is graded
courage specialization, while small­whole place in thc function room has changed, and the reasons for Mainwaring. The Church also has 
upon are initial impres~ion, educa­
those changes. begun to encourage the Brazilians toer companies offer more general where the disco was held appears to
tion in relation to the job. work ex­so As participate solving social
positions. have collapsed. There is much a result of the 1964 coup in in their 
perience. activities and interests. 
Brazil which installed a and economic problems.
confusion with people running
Concerning attitude. Stanelle of-and, tlnally, maturity and judgement. 
repressive, militaristic regime -the
around looking for their sons and 
See BRAZIL, page 3 
i 
l
; 

By The Ohserf/er and The Associated Press 
Two Saint Mary's students were struck by a St. Joseph County Police car early Sunday morning. The two students, Linda Didomenico and Laura LaSata, were crossing U.S. 3I with four other women at 3:35 a.m. when the incident took place. The group had gotten a ride from Notre Dame Security and planned to meet Saint Mary's Security to obtain a ride to the dorm. As the students were crossing at the stop light at the corner of U.S. 3I and Saint Mary's Avenue, they were struck by by the police car driven by of­ficer Jim Vance. Vance was responding to a police call in Roseland. As he approached the stoplight, he noticed a car without lights sit­ting in the right lane. He swerved left to avoid the car, applied his brakes and skidded into the two students, according to a summary of the accident report released by the Saint Mary's Public Relations office. The students were taken by McGann's Ambulance Service to St. joseph Medical Hospital where they were treated and released. The accident is under investigation by the St. joseph County Police. 
-The Observer 
The Notre D3.0le College Bowl champion­
ship was won by the team composed of Mike Kristo (captain), Ray 
Davis, Ann Riedl, and Chris Carey. Kristo's team twice defeated the 
team ofPaul McGinn (captain), Brian Stanley, Bill Mertka, and Keith 
Picher to win the double elimination campus tournament. The final 
scores were 2IO-I40 and 205-I90. Kristo's team goes on to compete 
against an all-star four-man team composed of members of the 
remaining I5 teams. From those eight players, Dr. Peter Lombardo, 
tournament director and conference coordinator of the CCE, will 
select four to represent Notre Dame in a regional College Bowl 
tournament this February at Western Illinois University. In earlier 
action last night, the team consisting ofJim Leo us (captain), Steve 
Zepf, Randy Fahs, and Mike Riccardi earned third place by defeating 
the team of Eric Suess (captain), Bob Bonnoyer, Mark Gorsak, and 
Judy Bowron. Hundreds ofcolleges and universities, organized into 
I 5 regions throughout the nation, participate in College Bowl. 
Region winners go on to play in the national tournament to be held 
in the spring. CBS radio will broadcast the matches ofselect teams. 
-The Observer 
The Notre D3.0le CreditUniOnisinstallingan automatic teller machine in the bus shelter at the Notre Dame Main Circle. The west side of the building is currently undergoing con­struction to make room for the machine. The automatic teller machine (ATM) is one offour such machines the Credit Union plans to have in operation by jan. I. Operating under the trade name "the Exchange," the ATM's are the result of the Credit Union's affiliation with Automatic Data Processing, a national baking network en­dorsed by credit unions in 30 states. -The Observer 
Father John Egan, special assistant to the president and director of Notre Dame's Institute for Pastoral and Social Minis­try, has been named recipient of the Emily M. Schossberger Award. The award, given annually by the Notre Dame Press to a member of the Notre Dame community for outstanding contributions to the cause ofscholarly publishing, was presented to Egan during a recep­tion at the University Club Dec. 2. According to James R. Langford, director of the Notre Dame Press, Egan was selected "for his assis­tance in acquiring important manuscripts for the press and for his longstanding support for our projects." The Emily M. Schossberger Award memorialized the first woman executive at Notre Dame, who directed the University Press from 1960 to 1972. The Observer 
A federal appeals court yesterday upheld the na­tion's toughest gun ordinance, ruling that the Chicago suburb of Morton Grove acted within its authority when it banned the sale and possession ofhandguns. In a 2-1 decision, the 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals rejected arguments that the ordinance enacted last year violated provisions of the state and federal constitions that guaran­tee the right to bear arms. No one has been charged with violating the ordinance since it took effect last Feb. I. Justice William). Bauer, who wrote the I8-page majority decision, said he agreed with a U.S. District Court ruling which held that the village acted within the police powers granted by the state constitution in outlawing sale and possession of handguns by anyone except Jaw enforcement of­ficers and registered gun collectors. -AP 
Sen. Edward M. Kennedyand his estranged wife, joan, filed for divorce yesterday, agreeing to share custody of their youngest child and settling on an undisclosed alimony and child support payments, a spokesman said. The two appeared in Barnstable Probate Court on yesterday afternoon before judge Shir­ley Lewis and the divorce will become final in a year, ending a 24­year marriage that they said suffered an "irretrievable breakdown." "Under the agreement we will share legal custody of Patrick, who is 
I5 years old and who attends school near Boston, where I will main­tain my primary residence," Mrs. Kennedy said in a statement released yesterday by her New York attorneys. "Under the terms of our agreement, I will receive annual payments ofalimony and child support as well as a lump sum cash settlement and halfofour family's tangible personal property," the statement said. "I will retain owner­ship of our Beacon Street apartment (in Boston) and will become the owner of the family's residence in Hyannisport." -AP 
Partly cloudy today, with light snow or flurries ·~veloping this afternoon. High in the mid 30s. Continued cloudy .omorrow, with highs in the low 30s. -AP 
Tuesday, December 7, 1982 -page 2 . 

Plastic hearts and souls 
Last week's successful attempt to mate an artificial heart with a man marks a new frontier for science and raises many philosophical and theological questions. 
The operation is made all the more dramatic because it involves the heart itself. "Get to the heart of the mat­ter." "He has a soft heart." "She's heartless." The word heart means much more than a blood pumping organ. How would you like to get a pancreas shaped box of chocolates for Valentine's Day? And love and liver don't exactly go hand in hand. 
The wife of Dr. Barney Clark wondered if her hus­band would still love her after the operation. Happily, the day after the surgery, her tired but cheerful husband assured her he still did. 
Really, she had nothing to worry about -the heart is nothing more than a muscle. But what a muscle. Not much larger than a fist, it pumps 7.2 liters (that's a little under 2 gallons for you non-metric types) and it never stops. When it finally does, it's too late. 
Dr. Clark was the victim of a degenerative heart disease. By early last week, his heart could only ooze about one-seventh the normal amount ofblood through his system. Had it not been for the artificial heart, the six-foot four-inch father oftwo would now be dead. 
Life for Dr. Clark in the future, however, is not going to be a bed of roses. The polyester heart (no word if they recycled old leisure suits to make it) requires a three hundred pound power unit. How long Clark's body will tolerate a hunk ofplastic remains to be seen. 
The doctors, as doctors will be, are very optimistic about the whole thing. They claim that soon Barney will be eating normally, able to move about in a t limited manner, and even have "a normal sex life." So far neit­her Barney nor his three hundred pound life support unit have commented on this. 

There are no guarantees that anything will work. As is also typical for the medical profession, before Barney could have his operation he had to sign I I pages of forms. But right now, everyone is happy. Barney is still alive, his family still has him, and the doctors have a live human guinea pig. 
The hype aside, the doctors privately admit that it will be amazing if Barney lives for more than a few months. But after I6 years and 200 million dollars of research, the Jarvik-7 can be called a success. More im­portantly, it will soon be followed by a Jarvik-8, and other "new and improved" models. Already, the doc­tors are looking towards an artificial heart that is self­contained. Once the huge support unit is gone, recipients will find it much easier to participate in the activities doctors say they can. When the artificial heart becomes this compact, it is thought that between IO to 50,000 a year will be installed in American chests. The cost won't be cheap, bU£ as one insurance executive put it, "It will be cheaper to get an artificial heart than to 
Hyon Ver Berkmoes 

Managing Edito1r 
Inside Tuesday 


spend several years dying of heart disease." And we thought the benefits of the device were purely humanitarian. 
In addition to his new heart, and related parap­henalia, Barney also has received a rather special key. It is the key to the heart's on and offswitch. 
Unlike normal hearts which quit after a lifetime of alcohol, spicey foods, procrastinated exercise, and even broken romances, the Jarvik-7 keeps on ticking until someone turns offthe power. Doctors realized that Bar­ney should have some control over his own destiny. Hence the key. There is no word if he plans to keep on the chain with the keys to the Honda or in his nightstand. 
In a few years, doctors expect to have replacements for most parts of the human body. Should you need a new organ, one will be readily available -if your Blue Cross is paid up. "Excuse me sir, I'd like a new kidney please." 
The question then is, when does one stop being human and become machine? When your lifespan is not a factor of your health, but of your ability to pay the utility com­pany, when will you choose to die? 
These are questions we will be faci•tg in the future. 
.;__] As technology increases ex­ponentially, the dreams of today will become the 
realities oftomorrow: In 30 years, most of us will be in the prime of our physical degeneration, despite all those hours spent jogging around the lake. Will the rich be the only ones able to afford these life giving devices? Will artificial organs become a means where the un­desirable elements are further weeded out ofsociety by the status quo? 
Even trickier is the issue of the artificial brain. The most advanced computers have a rudimentary intel­ligence, and research in this area is booming. In the next century, a person faced with a degenerated body may forgo the piecemeal approach to body replacement, and opt for a new body and brain. Not only does this bode ill for undertakers but it poses a problem for theologians. When a person's thoughts and memories can be placed within a machine, where is that person's soul placed? That entity that we have been taught makes us different from the animals (except maybe for Lassie) ...where does it fit into something that looks like a human, and thinks like a human, and is run by batteries? 
Let us hope we have the heart and soul to face the moral and theological questions to which the Jarvik-7 has opened the door. 

The Observer Design Etlilor.............................. Tim Neely Design Assistant ................. Ken Cerabona Laura Puk TJ•pesetters ........... .. ..... Reggie Daniel AI Nova• News Editor........................ Kathleen Doyle Copy Editor........................... Diane Dirkers NlJ Dar Editor .................... Tim Vercelotti .\MC Oay Editor ........................ Tari Brown Editorials Layoul ............... Ken Ccrabona B&Tlayout ............................... Akx Szilva• Sports Copy E<litor. ............ Chris Needles Typist ......................................... Tari Brown Ad /)esign ................................ Jeannie Euch Photographer ............................ Tom White Guest Appearances ................. P.\IT Rahhit Shots, the Soon-to-he Domer The General Readership  
The Observer ,uSPS 5<;,8 9201 ~~ published Munday tnr< .ugh F flda y anrl 0n nome fuutbalt Sctturddy~ extept dunng exam dnd VdCcHiun penuJS The Observer 1o puDIIohPd by the studen!s of Notre Da•ne and Sa1n1 Mary> Cui lege Subol r.ptiCJ% "T1d"l De purchased for $25 per yedr 1 SIS per se•neoten by o~~nt1ng The Observer P 0 Bux 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 465S6 The Observer ,, a ·11e•11ber uf The Associated Press A:l repruduc110n nghts are reserved Second class pustage pa1d at Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556  


CORBY ' S SalUt€S Coach Ph€lps anb h1s vall 1982-83 fiGhtinG IRISh--­
W€.R€ With you all th€ way! 
(jo IRISh, BE~t lnb1ana 

---------------~-~-~ 

Tuesday, December 7, 1982 -page 3
The Observer 


In Washington, D.C. 

.,


Social Concerns Setninar planned 
ByPATSAIN with government officals, Serno had the same view, pointing News Staff representatives of lobbying groups, out that, "You get to meet a lot of and Notre Dame alumni living and people who have the ~arne concerns A Social Concerns Seminar, working Washington, D.C. as you do, but different viewpoints." sponsored by Notre Dame's Center Serna said, "You really get a Both limenez and Serna were for Social Concerns, will take place feeling for the power structure in impressed with the fact that one this year in Washington D.C. over D.C. ...the people who have the could go to Washington and :•ctually spring break, March 12-19. power are influenced by those be present when national dedsi 'ns Thirteen Notre Dame students at­around them-mostly their aides." are made, talking to those who are tended the seminar last year, "You find out about all of these responsible for m aking them. discussing such issues as disarma­issues," · Serna continued, "and it "There is no other place where you ment, the budget, and the situation becomes very easy to tell others can be around the people who are in Central America. about them, because you are talking making the decisions, and see how 
Marty Jimenez, a senior who at­from an informed point ofview." they react to vour feelings ." 
tended last year's seminar, said, "The Jimenez explained that The Seminar is offered as a one­purpose (of the seminar) is to ac­workshops are held for the students credit pass-fail course in Theology quaint people with issues being before they go on the Social Con­and requires a few preparatory dealt with by our government. Each cerns Seminar, so students can un­meetings, readings, a reflection person is encouraged to go talk to derstand the issues in which they are paper, and an evaluation afterwards. their congressman and state their interested. Those who go on the Applications will be available concerns." trip, she said, should "be very open starting Wednesday, Dec. 18, in the 
Ceci Serna, who also participated to different ideas on issues -to see Center for Social Concerns. The in last year's conference, said what the opposite side has to say, deadline for returning the applica­"anyone who is interested in nation­and where the difficulties lie." tions is Jan. 25. al and international issues would be perfect for this trip. t " 
fii\liiu~~""" 
"Most representatives," said 
f Going home on Break? f
Jimenez, "were very open to their 

constituents' views. It kind ofsobers ... Brazil f We have vehicles going to f 
you up. You realize your respon­f several points across the U.S.f sibility as a citizen, and that there is a way to make your will known and it continuedfrom page 1 radical attitude, several. priests and urban and agrarian reform, which A Call WILSON DRIVEAWAY t 
is your responsibility to make your bishops were brought to trial on recognizes the rights of peasants in ' Bristol,lndiana
Mainwaring said that previous to 
will known."' charges of subversive activities, im­land ownership. t 674-6794 t
the coup, the Church maintained a "I wanted to know what Washing­prisoned, and tortured. Destruction
fairly conservative attitude in Brazil. Although it provided services for the
ton politics was like," continued ofChurch property by the coup also 
t t Jimenez. "I was really intrigued by was commmon.
poor, the Church worked closelythe whole process .. .I knew about with wealthy land owners, who en­Violence against the Church it theoretically, through books, but couraged the Church's neutral served to unite it. Even the most this offered an opportunity to ex­
stance in the conflict between the conservative members of the perience it first-hand. I wanted to state and the masses, he said. Church denounce the state's ac­see what pressures congressmen After the coup, however, a more tivities, making the Church of Brazil were under -to see what kind of radical temperament was adopted, one of the most progressive in the lives they led." world.
explained Mainwaring. By 1972, all According to Marcia LeMay, Mainwaring also said that, al­
the bishops in Brazil had issued 



~j~:;,

campus coordinator for the Seminar, though the progressives are still in
statements denouncing state­students who go to Washington will organized activities such as "white the minority, they are becoming have the opportunity to listen to and slavery", and the lack of adequate dynamic. This faction recently ~.-..
I;

discuss concerns of social justice helped to bring about legislation for 
sanitation. As a result of this new 
531 N. Michigan St.. , 





Pain? 
Do You Have Any Of These Danger Signals 
of  
Pinched Spinal Nerves?  
Neck Pain  Arm Pain  Slipped Disc  
Headaches  Numb Arms  Hlp Pain  
Dizziness  Arm Weakness  Lag Pain  
Nervousness  Back Pain  Numb Lags  
Stiff Neck  Muscle Spasms  Lag Weakness  
Shoulder Pain  ·  Rib Pains  Joint Pains  

Call684·0400 Today! 
for Public Service-No Obligation 


Spine and Nerve Examination 
(Exam does not include x-rays) 
~pv Weiss 
Our Insurance Polley-We accept insurance benefits in place of
~Chiropractic 
cash payment on an Individual 
..: Center 
basis depending on policy limits_ 
Bell Plaza-US 33 at Bell Rd.. Niles 


1723 South Bend Ave. -at the Butler's Pantry (walking distance from campus) · Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Student Special 
12 exposure film $5.50 double print of each negative in.cludes processing wlstudent photo I.D. Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Special$ 10°/o Discount on all work done here 
II
South Bend 
I Phone 233-4957 ~ 
~;• EJIU~ rrmrrm 111 d~ 


~..~~~~~~·;~~·)'~~;~~~'"'~ 
-with a flair for the CR€atiV€: Get involved in 
JuniOR PaR€nts W€€kmo 
by designing the program 
cover for our JPW liturqy.

ND Film Club Presents: Anyone interested, please 
contact Jenny Grantham at 3847 or 3850 before DeclS.




JohnWayre & 
~.................................................~ 



Bruce Dern in 
~---------------,

The Cowboys 1 
1972  Color  126 min  Warners  PG  $85  I  
Directed by Mark Rydell. Written by Irving  I  
Ravetch, Harriet Frank Jr., William Dale Jennings. Music by John Williams. Starring John Wayne, Roscoe Lee Browne, Bruce Dern,. Slim Pickens, Colleen Dewhurst  III  
Gentll' comt•dy, drama. action and adventure -th" We-.tern ha-. them dll. Wayne plays an  I1  

df;lnf; lll70'' rdnchPr who>e men desert him tol go on ,1 gold ru,h. De>perate to get hi' cattle I to m.Hkl'l. ht• ,lUdition-. d bunch ol local boys. tht-oldt<,t ot "hom i, 15. hire-. eleven, puts I tiwm t·hrough dt-m,mdtng tratning and then I ,ph out on tht• 400-mtle 1ournPy to the 1 'tocky,mk It " ,1 1ournpy toward> maturity, I .tl"'· tor tht• ktch td,tt• dnd partictpate in adult I 
~~~~~~~~~~~-----· 
Tues.Dec.7 Er'9ireerir'9 Aud. 7, 9:15, II :30 Cost $2.00 

MEED HELP 
WITH YOUR 



STUDENT 

LOAM? 
If you've attended college on a Guaranteed Student Loan or aNa­tional Direct Student Loan made after Octoher I, 19'5, consider spending a couple of years in the Army. 
If you train for certain specialties, the government will release you from II:', of your in­dehtedness (or S I 500, whic­hever is greater) for each year of active duty. 
Ohviouslv, a three vear enlist­ment cance'ls iOO%of.vour debt. But if you sign up fc.r the Army's exclusive two \'ear enlistment option, we'll still cancel 2/3 of yourdeht. 
Plus, you may be eligible for generous education incentives. 
To find out how to serve your country and get out of debt, call the number helow. 

ARMY. 
BE ALLlOU CAN BE• 
Sgt. Hamilton 234-4187 

~ 
. 
I 






I BusineSS &Technology_Tu_esda_y,oe_cem_ber_7,19_s2_pag_e4 
' 
\ 
Economic Update 

RobertD. Orr,Indiana's GOP governor, laid out his plan Monday for higher sales and income taxes and hinted he would ac­cept changes aimed at easing the tax burden on needy Hoosiers. "Today is a day ofopportunity for all ofus," Orr told a joint session of the Indiana House and Senate. "Let us put aside the partisanship that may weaken the opportunity for a financially healthy Indiana." Opening the first day ofthe tax-raising special session, Orr endorsed a plan to raise the state income tax from 1.9 to 3 percent and to boost the sales tax from 4 percent to 5 percent. Referring to the recom­mended income tax increase, Orr said, "I believe careful considera­tion should b .. given to lessening the impact this increase will have on low-income families." -AP 

Research Update 

"B.10brtc. ks" are getting a smelly reputation, says civil engineer James E. Alleman. They are a cheap, effective new construction material that is getting a bum rap because ofits humble origins. Alleman, a professor at Purdue University, says he has to put up with misunderstandings and a lot of crude jokes in his quest to turn sewage sludge into a useful construction material. "When people hear of biobricks, they don't know what to expect," Alleman said. "They wonder ifthe bricks are brown or if they smell or ifthey will get slick and slimy when it rains." Actually, biobricks look, smell and feel like other bricks, he said. In laboratory experiments, Al­leman substituted sludge for up to 50 percent of the clay and shale that customarily make up bricks. He found that the higher the sludge content, the more water bricks will absorb. That's good up to a point because bricks that absorb water form a stronger bond with mortar than bricks that don't. But too much water absorption makes bricks susceptible to cracking from the stress offreezing and thawing. The best bricks contain about 30 percent sludge, Alleman found. The sludge that goes into biobricks contains mostly dead cells of the bacteria which digested the original raw sewage. Sludge may also contain sediment such as clay which has washed into sewer lines. ­
AP 

Wall Street Update 
The DowJones average of 3o industrials jumped 

24.20 yesterday to I ,055. 56. Advances outpaced declines by about 3 to 2 on the New York Stock Exchange. Big Board volume totaled 
83.88 million shares, against 71.54 million in the previous session. The NYSE's composite index gained I.56 to 81.61. At the American Stock.Exchange, the market value index was up 1.17 at 335.98.-AP 
Build your future with an MBAfrom liT 

The liT/MBA Advantages: 
Computer based management education for the Financial, 
• 
Producing and Service Industries.
• 
Afull-time faculty of professional educators experienced in 
• 
real world applications. 
Unique MBA specializations in Information Resources 
• 
Management and Industrial Management. 
MBA specializations in Finance, Marketing, Accounting and 
• 
Human Resources Management. 
2convenient locations: Downtown at 77 South Wacker and Main Campus at 31st and State. Easy parking at both. 
•Part-time and full-time admissions. 
Dr. Nathan Keith, Assistant Dean Call Ill School of Business Administration or ··-10 West 31 Street, Chicago, IL 60616 
write 
Ill 
312/567-5104 
Spring semester begins on Jan. 17, 1983, with registration on Jan. 12. 
Uh.,o•s i"'shtute ot Tech.,ology •s a., equal oppor1u•11ty educator 
I
Please send more information on liT's MBA program to: 1 
I
Nare ___________________________________ 
I 
1 
1
5~---------------------------------------I I 
City -----------Slate------------1
•. 
I 

Stu~ent directs 


Local airline expands service 
ByALEX SZILV AS 
B&TEditor 
Transporting live lobsters be­tween Boston and Chicago? Sounds like an interesting diversion from the rigors of academia for a Notre Dame student. 
Such was the humble beginning of Swift Air Corporation, an air charter service headed by N.D. senior Robert Mihlbaugh. 
Initially an airfreight service, Swift Air was incorporated more than one year ago by Mihlbaugh and a local businessman. An experienced pilot, Mihlbaugh had been flying four-and­a-half years before undertaking his venture with Swift Air, including time spent commanding one of the Channel 16 SkyCams. "At the begin­ning," he recalls, "we had a single plane and I did all the flying myself." 
Based at Michiana Regional Air­port, Swift Air next expanded to an air charter or passenger taxi service. Mihlbaugh explains, "We do such things as directly transport ex­ecutives of local firms to business meetings or make emergency flights arising out of unusual cir­cumstances." He adds, "For ex­ample, we flew Billy Squier out of South Bend after his performance at the A.C.C. to Saginaw for his next show." Presently consisting of four pilots and three planes, Swift Air recently announced that it was beginning weekday non-stop service to Chicago's Midway Airport on Dec. 9. All its flights to Midway 
Manville lectures 
•


conttnue 
Edwin Manst1eld, professor of economics at the L:niversitv of Pennsylvania, will give a lecture entitled "Technological Innova­tion and the Productivity Slow­down" Wednesday (December 
8) at :'dO p.m. in the University of Notre Dame's Memorial Library auditorium. 
Mansfield's lecture is sponsored by the University's College of Business Administra­tion as the fourth in the Manville American Enterprise le..::ture series. The Manville lectures, made possible by a grant from the Manville Fund, Inc., bring to the Notre Dame campus business scholars, teachers and prac­titioners to discuss the American enterprise system from a variety ofperspectives. 
will then continue to downtown Chicago's Meigs airport. The flight will terminate at Meigs and the return flight will originate there later the same day. 
The flights will be offered every Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, and Friday, departing South Bend for Midway at 8: IS a.m. and leaving Meigs for the return trip at 4:00p.m. (all times local). 
Mihlbaugh relates that Swift Air's expanded service will benefit stu­dents by providing direct access to Midway Airlines and its budget fares. Previously, there was neither scheduled air nor limo service to Midway Airport. 

Mihlbaugh contends that Swift fares to Midway and Meigs are com­parable or lower than most carriers to O'Hare. Fares and reservations may be obtained by calling Swift Airlines. 

Young craters, lava flows and rumblings under the California resort of Mammoth Lakes on the eastern flanks of the Sierra Nevada have some geologists believing that an ancient volcano dormant for 100,000 years is getting ready. to erupt again. (Discover photo) 


Computer graQhics equipment upaated 
By MARY EASTERDAY 
News Staff 
Engineering students at the Uni­versity of Notre Dame will soon be able to "see" inside their designs of buildings and automobiles. The Col­lege of Engineering is vastly updat­ing its computer graphics equipment after a General Motors Corporation grant of $250,000. 
The development of a computer graphics facility is part of a com· prehensive goal to modernize the University's engineering computing capabilities. A committee of faculty members is responsible for purchas­ing and making the long-range plans for this equipment. Among the specific aims is the updating of design courses with the use ofcom­puter graphics applications that have helped advance industrial and manufacturing design trends. The new graphics equipment is not related to the Apple computer 

€ & J(jallo WineRy CaQ€€Q pQesentatJon 
Wh€n: Dec. 8, 19 8 2 7 -9:00 p.m. 
Wh€R€: Upper Lounge of the University Club 
Who: Open to all majors who have an interest in sales/sales mgmt. What: An informative evenirg 
· · h h
COncern mg a Career Wit t e Gallo Winery 
th € & Jr.. U W U · 
€ '"'fa 0 ln€RY WI B€ lnt€RVI€WIO(i
J . 

On campUS]an. 25 & 26, 1983. 
equipment that is being acquired from the World's Fair. 
The new facility will allow the Computer-Aided Design/Computer-Aided Mahufacturing (CAD/CAM) applica­tion of computer graphics to be in­cluded in required courses, offering students hands-on experience with the equipment. General Motors was the pioneering company in first using the CAD/CAM design. They are the leaders in the development of the techniques and software of this facility. The best examples of the use ofthe CAD/CAM application are seen in General Motor's car designs. 
Dr. Roger A. Schmitz, Dean of the College of Engineering, explained that in addition to increasing the speed, ease and accuracy of design work, CAD/CAM allows students to see a three-dimensional view of the object they are designing. 
"With this application, students will be able to see a three­dimensional, isometric view ofwhat they are designing. By moving a lever or pushing buttons, the design will rotate to show them all of the possible views. If they are designing a building, this applicaton allows them to go inside and see all of the angles." 
In the past, Schmitz said, such comrehensive views of designs could not possibly be taken on be­cause of the time involved and the limitations of paper and pencil drawings. He anticipated that mec­hanical and civil engineering stu­dents will be the most frequent users, but added that "the equip­ment is not restricted to any one department -every engineering department may make good use of 
thesecapabilities." When completed, the facility will resemble a laboratory setting with graphic terminals linked ro a mainframe computer. The facility will be housed in a classroom or 
laboratory in Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering and is hoped to be in 
~~~~--~±~~Zip;::::::::::::::~Oa1;:tfi=ime=~P,~IOI~~Ie~-======~==-=;==-===========~!:=;;:}...,.tz,.jE.~-··~~-~-=·~-~~~"~'-~-~:-:.......,=-=··:·~==="'~'"='"==~,-~==·==r=·=-~:=::JtJ~~·~se-~~~a~~ 
1---­
------------------------------------~-------------------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, December 7, 1982 -page 5 


Editorials 
The Perfect.Student Newspaper • • • 
We at The Observer are perfect. We have, over the course of our 16 years as an independent student newspaper, attained such a level of competence and judg­ment that no suggestion, criticism, compliment or complaint could help us im­prove our service to the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community. 
Does that seem strange? Conceited? Completely false? Could be. We wouldn't know. 
Those ofus who work for the newspaper are proud ofthe job we do. We stand in a unique position as a completely independent college newspaper, publishing daily without the benefit ofa journalism department or faculty advisor. Nonetheless, we realize, in our more modest moments, that we are not perfect. 
As Margaret Fosmoe so aptly noted in her Inside Column, "in many instances, mere proximity to the situation does not allow an unbiased view. Sometimes the roles of journalist and student conflict, making controversial decisions and self­evaluation even more difficult." 
So true. To gain further insight to some ways we could improve our performance as the voice of the community, The Obse1ver scheduled a "general readership forum" at 
6:30 last night in the Library Auditorium. The meeting was widely publicized through the personals column, display advertising, an editorial last Friday, and pos­ters plastered all over both campus -not to mention Ms. Fosmoe's article yester­day. 
The appointed hour found a dozen ofThe Observer's editors and managers facing a throng of ... 12 people. 
All 12 were Observer employees. 
Giving the expected speakers the standard University allotment of 15 minutes before cancelling the affair, the Observerites waited politely -and a little hopeful­ly. 
But it was not to be. 
Perhaps it was the press of imminent exams, the airing ofA Charlie Brown Christmas -perhaps all ofNotre Dame and Saint Mary's had to wash their hair last night. Whatever the reason, only readers disguised as empty seats attended. 
This apparent vote ofconfidence does wonders for our egos. 
Readers will continue to see the same paper, with which, apparently, they find no fault. We will continue to accept letters to the editor(s), but ofcourse there won't be any complaints. 
We're perfect! 

A Day that will live in infamy 
Forty-one years ago, Japan launched a surprise attack against the American naval and army installations in the Hawaiian Islands. In less than an hour, the American Pacific fleet, with the exception of the aircraft carrier task force, was obliterated. The next day, both 
Paul McGinn 
Roper Review 

houses of Congress declared war on the Japanese empire, and World War II officially 
became a part ofAmerican history. 
"Moralists" have attempted to dim the hor­ror and indecency of that attack by rebutting with the American tragedies of Nagasaki, Hiroshima, and Japanese-American con­centration camps. But the sad fact ofthe attack itself rests not on any comparison of wartime justice -the simple remembrance of those who died that day and who died in the Pacific Theatre during those four years elicits its own sense ofloss and foreboding. 
With the attack, America was vaulted head­first into a war which pitted good against evil. Never before had America entered a war in which the enemy was regarded as the blatant aggressor. The War of 1812, the Mexican War. the Spanish-American War, and World War I presented a hazy concept of right and wrong, oppressor and oppressed. World War II presented a well-defined portrait ofgood and evil -the Axis power wore black, and the Allies wore white. 
America entered World War II with the best 
of intentions. It hoped to forever erase the 
stain of totalitarian government, and to its 
credit, America ended the Axis threat. And 
while America may have had to compromise 
with the Soviet Cnion and other oppressive 
regimes, Hitler and Tojei were silenced. 
No one can determine ifthe war was indeed 
just or if any war of such magnitude could 
ever be proper. But the very fact that America 
completed its appointed task of defeating the 
enemy gave rise to a patriotic zeal which this 
country had never experienced. And that zeal 
extended to all levels ofAmerican society; the 
family, religion, and business were all greatly 
affected. 
Americans of all ages, faiths and cultures 

P. 0. Box Q  
Administrative responsibility DearEditor: I am writing in regard to the administra­tion's charge that the N.D. students should· be responsible for the damages incurred to ­the Transpo buses after the Pitt game. In view of the paternalistic nature of the ad­ministration of this university, Father Van Wolvlear and Co. seem to be taking a hypocritical stand on this bus issue. They en­courage us to take responsibility for our ac­tions in this case, yet fail to allow us to be responsible for other aspects of our lives. This seems to be an inconsistency in univer­sity p;>licy and attitude. Father Van Wolvlear wishes that the stu­dents "could learn to control themselves and their actions." I feel that perhaps our de­gree of "control" is proportional to the measure of responsibility we've been given thus far. It seems that the administration ar­bitrarily chooses in which areas we should be treated as adults and in which areas we should be treated as children. When we were in high school, Daddy set our curfew, paid our allowance and got us out of any trouble we got ourselves into.  Therefore. if the administration sets our cur­the draft law for themselves, and to ignore it few, why shouldn't they also pay for the if thev deckle it is immoral. Does Mr. trouble we cause? Dewe~rt really believe that each person And that's my 12 cents worth. should decide for himself which laws to Susan Lubecki obey and which to ignore? I think not. Badin Hall Second, every person who enjoys the benefits of this country must share in its responsibilities also. A student cannot ignore his responsibility of helping to protect the country and expect the govern-Draft law DearEditor: I must reply to Michael Deweert's letter that appeared in the November 19th Ob­server, which concerned the draft registra­tion issue. Mr. Deweert stated that any involuntary servitude, such as the draft, con­stitutes slavery. For this reason, he opposes the recent cutoff of federal aid to students who refuse to register for the draft. Fur­thermore, Mr. Deweert encourages Notre Dame and other universiti_es to provide their own aid to these students. I must argue with Mr. Deweert's advice on several points. First, draft registration is the law. All citizens of this country have a responsibility to obey the laws. If Mr. Deweert feels that the draft law is immoral. then he should work to change it, rather than encouraging Notre Dame to help stu­dents who break the law. In effect, Mr. Deweert is encouraging students to judge  ment to give him a free college education as well. Citizenship includes privileges ami obligations. I sincerely hope that Notre Dame will not assist students who choose to ignore their obligations by defying the registration law. Robert Boucher Pangborn Hall  



Ihe~Der============= 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Cni­versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily retlect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­curately and as objectively as possible. Cnsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, and the free expression ofvarying opinionson campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
(219)239·5303 

donated their energies to win the war. Americans had only one goal in mind -to win. And because ofthat goal, Americans, for a time, set aside their prejudices against blacks and women. Everyone was needed for the war effort; no one could be spared. 
And through this acknowledgement of the need ofall Americans for the war effort came the first major rumblings of the civil rights movement and the reshaping of the women's cause. These men and women had shown themselves brave in the face of danger -it was only right that they be accorded full citizenship. 
But with the end of World War II came the realization that events had been complicated disproportionately by the rise of this "total" war mentality. America had responded so feverishly that it could not regain its proper peace perspective. And the "fight to the death" slogan which so characterized the patriotism ofAmerica had no suitable outlet. 
Americans, the greatest people, were 
frustrated -frustrated because the war 
machine which they had perfected was rapid­
ly becoming obsolete. The battle lines of war 
which only four years bef(Jre had seemed so 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief..............................Michael Monk Managing Editor................Ryan Ver Berkmoes Executive News Editor .............. David Dziedzic SMCExecutive Editor............Margaret Fosmoe Sports Editor...................................Chris Needles Editorials Editor .............................Paul McGinn Features Editor ...................................Tari Brown Photo Editor ...................................Rachel Blount 
clearly cut were now confused by the horror ofa total war which accompanied the Atomic • Age. 
Pearl Harbor was more than a singular event of the war. It was a watershed of response to war and to America itself. Before World War II, politics was a simple matter of military-supported diplomacy. Ambassadors and politicians of different nations conferred upon issues knowing full well that some sense of trust linked even the fiercest enemies. But December 7, 19-i I, changed that when the Japanese violated the Western tradition ofof­ficially declaring war. Americans were in­furiated by the surprise attack and responded in kind: there were now no longerany rules of war. 
And so, historians have derided this "day_of infam(' as a watershed of military and politi­cal debauchery -debauchery based on the events which followed that Sunday morning at Pearl Harbor. But what so many have forgot-• ten is that men and women died that day. not for hazy concepts of deterrence or detente. but for the land which they held so dearly. And it is to these men and women we dedicate this day. 

Department Managers 
Business Manager .............................Tony Aiello Controller .............................................Eric Schulz AdvertisingManager.......................Chris Owen Production Manager..................Maura Murphy Circulation Manager......................Mark Miotto Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley 
Founded November 3, 1966 
~ ~-~ 



~j)()~tS=f=)=~==t=·~~~L=S========~=====================T=u=es=d=ay=,=D=ec=e=m=b:<:~r=7=,=19=8=2===pa=g=e==6 
Hy 1h1! Obser!•l!r and Thl! Assodtill!d Press 


Sportsboard 

The Gymnastics Club has changed its practice times to Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays at the Angela Athletic 
INTERHALL SUMMARY 
Facility and Tuesdays and Thursdays at The Rock All practices will 
HOCKEY 
be held between 4 and 6 in the afternoon. -The Observer 
Last Week's Results Flanner 3, Zahm t Off~Campus 6, Grace 1 
This Week's Games 
Tonight Momssey vs Alumm, t0:15 p m F1sher vs Holy Cross. 1t 30 p m 
Thursday
Broomball and ice skatingwm be the features 
D1llon vs Pangborn. 10·15 p m 
Cavanaugh vs Keenan. 11.30 p m
at a party sponsored by the Office ofNon-Varsity Athletics this Friday 
CQ-REC VOLLEYBALL 

"8 P ~Alumni, cnampTons of the losers bracket captamed by Anne DuCharme. defeated the cham­pions of the wmners bracket, The Plymouth Con~ nect1on (captamed by Joe B1lletdeaux), to capture the co-ree volleyball champ1onsh1p In add1110n to DuCharme, the wmner s roster mcludes Barry Fay, 8111 GroJean. Tom W1lkas. Ann Schwartz and Karen N1ll 
CO-REC BASKETBALL 
"The Other Team. captained by Barry Fay, defeated Laura Larkner s ·we Be the Worst to become the co-ree basketball champ1ons Team members Include Fay, Bubba Cunn1ngham, M1ke Prevozn1k, John Ste1n, Ralph DiV1etro, Theresa Smith. Mary Beth McManus, Carol Comito, Liz Jantz, Jenny Stepan and Karen Nill 
night immediately following the Notre Dame-Ohio State hockey game. The only charge will be a J 1 skate rentaL -The Observer. 
• • .Rumors 
continuedfrom page 8  
The Water Polo Club will  hold  an  important  And there are other men dying for the job as welL  
meeting for all members tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the Caron Court of  
Lafortune. Ifyou cannot attend, calljohn (6837) or Chris ( 8529) to  
get the important information. -The Observer  • • .IU  
continuedfrom page 8  
(frontliners) individually.  
The Tae Kwon Do karate club's practice originally  "This is all new to them (the fresh­men). Once they get confidence and  
scheduled for tonight has been rescheduled for tomorrow night be­ beat somebody good,  then every­ 
cause of the Indiana basketball game. Practice will be held at the  thing will fall into place."  
normal time at the ACC -The Observer  After finishing out of the money  
against Kentucky and losing a photo  
finish  to  UCLA,  the Irish get  one  
more opportunity tonight to beat a  
Top-Ten opponent in the third leg of  
their Triple Crown.  
As Phelps learned on Saturday, he  

certainly has the horses to do it. 
One report says that George Al­len, who didn't coach the L.A. Rams, then didn't coach the Montreal Alouettes, and still has not coached the Chicago Blitz, says he'll take the job, but only until the season starts. 
Chris Needles, the Sports Editor of The Observer, says he's always wanted to be a coach, and would think about taking the job, as long as he could stay at the newspaper and write good things about himself. 
Finally, former coach Dan Devine, who called press conferences to say he hadn't been offered jobs at Arizona in the USFL and Michigan State in the Big Ten, says he hasn't been offered this job either. But he's available, and interested, and ex­perienced, and can whistle the Fight Song. 
But these are just rumors, and you can't believe everything you hear. Can you? 

AP Top Twenty 
The Top Twenty college basketball teams 1n The Associated Press poll, w1th fTrst-place votes m paren­theses. th1s season s records and total po1nts. Po1nts 
based on 20-19-18-t? etc Notre Dame opponents  
are italicized  
t Virginia (49)  .4~0  1149  
2 Kentucky (6)  3-0  1069  
3 Georgetown (3)  5-0  10t8  
4 Memph1s State  4-0  968  
5. UCLA  3-0  919  
6 Indiana  3-0  830  
7 Iowa  4-0  704  
8 Missoun  2·0  699  
9 Houston  4-0  636  
10 Villanova  1-1  584  
11 Alabama  2·0  554  
t2. St. Johns  5-0  508  
13. LOUISVIlle  4-1  462  
t4 Tennessee  2-0  44t  
15 J!1rkansas  3-0  295  
16 Marquette  2-0  264  
17. North Carolina  2-2  208  
18 N.C. State  2-0  199  
19 Nevada-Las Vegas  3-0  t63  
20. Purdue  4-0  158  


AP Top Twenty 
The Top Twenty college football teams 1n The As­sociate(J Press poll. w1th hrst-place votes 10 paren­theses, thiS season·s records and total po1nts Po1nts 
based <ln 20-t9-18~ 17 etc  Notre Dame opponents  
are italicized  
1  Georg1a (46)  11-0-0  996  
2  Penn State (2)  10-1-0  952  
3  Nebraska (2)  tt-1-0  894  
4  SMU  10-0-1  869  
5  IJCLA  9~1-1  782  
6  Pin  9·2·0  779  
7  Clemson  9-t~1  635  
8  Texas  9-2~0  622  
9  Washington  9-2-0  564  
10  West Virg1ma  9-2-0  511  
11  ~~nzona State  9-2-0  474  
12  Oklahoma  8-3-0  385  
13  LSU  8-2-1  383  
14  Arkansas  8-2-1  381  
15  usc  8·3-0  301  
16  Maryland  8-3-0  238  
17  Oh10 State  8-3-0  182  
18  Auburn  8-3-0  162  
19  Michigan  8-3-0  120  
20  Tulsa  10-1-0  85  




·Classifieds 
LOST Tl~55 CALCULATOR on the 2nd NEED A FEMALE ROOMMATE, Cute floor of the library Sunday, Nov 28, w1th Loft Apt , Good Locat1on. 95 00/MONTH
NOTICES 

case My r.ame IS etched on the back Utls Included Call234·0824 REWARD. Call MIKE at 3571 NEED A FEMALE ROOMMATE, Cute
Professional typmg. Free pick up and LOST: A Woman s gold Bulova watch at 

Loft Apt . Good Locat1on. 95 00/MONTH Reg1na s South Lounge Basement If Utls Included Call 234-0824 delivery Delivery Wllh1n 24 hours $.80 
per page 282-1805. 

found please return Call5487 (SMC) 
Professional typmg. Free p1ck up and 5-BEDROOM. COMFORTABLE. CuM­delivery Delivery Within 24 hours $~80 
LOST A gold s~cha1n w1th a gold cube on PLETEL Y FURNISHED HOUSE, CLOSE per page. 282~t805 it. If you f1nd it, please call Laura at 4624 TO NDU. STARTING JULY. 1983 CALL Great senttmental value Thanks 288-3942 
TRAVEL ENTHUSIAST NEEDED!!! A fantastic opportumty for an outgo1ng, self~ LOST TIMEX WATCH WITH BROWN 2 Graduate/Law students wanted to starter who en1oys meetmg people. Earn LEATHER BAND ON TUESDAY, NOV share 4 bedroom home With 2 other Law FREE VACATIONS & CASH by selling 
30 OF GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE Students Completely furnished $75 a 
THOUGHT TO HAVE BEEN LOST month 288~3t 09our !unfilled SKI & BEACH TRIPS! Call 
312-871~1070 today! Or write: SUN & SKI SOME-WHERE BETWEEN THE ADVENTURES, 2256 N Clark, Chicago. 
STADIUM PARKING LOT AND THE Near NO, 2-bdrm., unfurnished, utiltttes IL 60614 BUSINESS ADMIN~ ISTRATION BUILD· pa1d less gas Call272-0261 lNG IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL PAT AT TYPING Jack1e Boggs, 684-8793 SMC. 284-5456 S 
Furnshed house for rent,gd cond.,4bdrm ,close to campus,avatlable 
LOST SMALL. DARK GREEN 3~ 1983~1984 school year Call287-5361Typ1st Needs Work 277·8534 aner 6pm 
SUBJECT NOTEBOOK NEEDED FOR FINALS CALL PAUL 3485 M-F 
Is It True you can buy 1eeps for $44 through the U S. Government? Get the 

FOUND: CHARM from a charm bracelet 

WANTED
form of a gold mug, w1th plaque on front reads ~~ BELLE VERNON PROM, t982 
facts today! Call 312·742-1143 Ext. 
7316. 

see JIM 1n 216 Keenan. or call meat3274 
TYPING AVAILABLE~ 287-4082 RIDE TO NYC area wantd for Xmas break 
as early as Fn, Dec 17th Call Tom ~ WERE YOU DRUNK
I need a nde to Virg1n1a Beach, Va for 8425 
STAURDAY NIGHT?? If so. and you took 
Xmas break Call Greg at 234-1673 Need R1de To Connecticut For Chnstmas 

my Lev1 s Jeans Jacket by acc1dent 
Break Please Call Dan At 6824 anytime
PLEASE return 1!!! SIZe 34. N D bunon on
NEED RIDE TO NYC OR LONG ISLAND 

pocket and N Y G1ants key cham w1th
AREA. BRIAN 8600 WASHINGTON DC AREA Need a nde on 

room keys 1n pocket The ;acket I got IS 
December 22 Call Kathleen at 233~4598 Residents of CENTRAL NEW YORK 
HUGE, and m1ne has great sentimental 
value plus I m freeZing Call 3564, 805t.
CHRISTMAS BREAK BUS by New York MAJOR PROBLEM 

or 8055 PLEASE or drop 1n Lost & Found. ,
Metro Club Will be stoppmg 1n ALBANY. 

Need nde to DetrOit over XMAS on Dec 
KINGSTON. NEWBURGH. $90 21 PLEASE call P1a at 4351

LOST ONE BROWN PATTERNED
roundtnp. S1gn-ups WED DEC 8, at 7pm, 

UMBRELLA ON FRIDAY IN 0 SHAG
f1rst floor laFortune.New members 

NEED RIDE TO MAINE X~MAS BREAK welcome 
EITHER IN ROOM 204 OR 209 PLEASE 
WILL SHARE USUAL 288~3616 after 7CALL 7978 IF FOUND 
pm 

FOUND: Contact lenses case. Down 
PLEASE HELP! need nde to DC for
vest Aamcoat, Swearsh1rts, Sweatpants 
Xmass-after 4pm 12/21 Maura X2244 Left 1n Stepan Center. Call Tom at 7559or 239-7458 to cla1m by Thurs. 12/9

LOST/FOUND 

MAJOR PROBLEM Need nde to Detro1t over XMAS on Dec
LOST· ONE' DARK BEIGE SMALL
LOST:A SET OF ROOM KEYS IN THE 

21 PLEASE call P1a at 4351 NORTHOUAD 
CLUTCH PURSE LAST SEEN IN P W %KEY CHAIN IS BLACK WITH A 
TV LOUNGE IF YOU HAVE IT OR KNOW DODGE. INSCRIPTION %ON IT 
ANYTHING OF ITS WHEREABOUTS. 
NEED RIDE TO MAINE X~MAS BREAK
PLEASE CALL NANCY AT 29t7
PLEASE CALL 1858 IF FOUND WILL SHARE USUAL 288~36t6 aner 7 pm

Found A set of keys on a tray 1n North
LOST Tl-55 CALCULATOR on the 2nd 

D1n1ng Hall. Call Fausto at 8733 to Iden­
floor of the library Sunday, Nov 28. w1th PLEASE HELP! need nde to DC fortifycase My name IS etched on the back 

Xmass~after 4pm 12/21 Maura X2244 REWARD Call MIKE at 357t 
NEED XMAS RIDE TO CONNECTICUT CAN LEAVE 12/20CALL PAUL AT 6829 LOST: PAIR OF GLASSES THURSDAY 

FOR RENT 
MORNING IF FOUND PLEASE CALL Gimme a break!

1653 RE:WARD!!!!!! 

A Chnstmas break, that IS Actually. what you need to g1mme IS a nde Lost 84 NO class nng name of Michael CLEAN. FURNISHED APT CLOSE TO home, to the Ph1ladelph1a/ AllentownNeus inside call 283-8350 if found CAMPUS 135/MONTH 233·8163 
PA/W1Im1ngton. Del /South Jer sey/Harnsburg/even North Jersey(!) LOST one pair of glasses, 1n a brown area for break Call T1m at 288·1822 or
Student Housing -Clean -Safe 
$100/mo 291-t405
case, near Stepan Parking lot call call leave a message at the Observer off1ce 
don at 1771~ (239-5303) Room tor rent for female grad or law stu­
dent 1n NO Ave Apts. $180 plus electnc Desperately need ride to Pittsburgh­FOUND one silver and black labby cat Call Madeleine at 287-4644 after 11 Dec 18.Calf Karen at 7939 ~.for further information call283-4305. 
NEED RIDE TO NYC OR LONG ISLAND FOR XMAS I MUST LEAVE ON DEC 19,20, or eve of DEC 18 W1ll share dnv1ng and all expenses. CALL BERT AT 288-2204 
HELP1t or 2 ndes needed to MD/DC/VA Can leave at 4 on the 21st Call Joan at 1334 or Kathl at 1326 
need nde to CHICAGO Fn .. Dec t 0. can leave anyt1me after noon call She1la 289~ 9304 
Need nde to and from PHILADELPHIA for break Can leave an yt1me after Dec 18 Call Mary at 29t9 
A1de needed mormng of 12/23 to Mid­way Will pay and be forever 1n your debt Call PAULA at 2725 
R1de needed to/near ALBANY N Y for 12/22 call Ken 233·8626 
WANT TO BUY LOFTS FOR A DOUBLE IN PW Cal11813 

I need nde to WHO Dec81n Chgo Will pay petrodollars John No 3663 

FOR SALE 
FOR SALE 198t HONDA ACCORD LX. like new~ t9.000mlles CrUise. A/C. P S. AM~FM cassette $7800 • Phone Plymouth 1 ~936-7032 
69 Red VW Bug Good TransportatiOn Besl Offer Call 289~3263 
WHO TIX MAIN FLOOR for sale 287~ 9342 
REFRIGERATOR FOR SALE great Chnstmas present' Dorm·siZe. 3 2 cu ft in excellent cond111on call 234~2456 ho­
ho~ho. 

TICKETS 
NEED IU GA TICKETS.PETE 232-1466 
Will top your best offer for 2 IU lick· els call Milke at 894 7 
FOR SALE: One student basketbaff ticket, package B (this includes the In­
diana game). Besl offer. Calf Tom at 8728. 

PERSONALS 
Happy Birthday Joe! Deanna and Laura 
The Observer w11/ accept c!ass1f1eds Mon­day through Fr1day. 10 am. to 4 30 p.m However. class1f1eds to appear m the next 1ssue must be recetved by 3 p.m. the bus1ness day pnor to 1nsert1on All classil1eds must be prepaid. e1ther 1n person or thrm.. gh the mall 
Need Round Tnp R1de To Connecticut For Chnstmas Break Will Share Usual Please Call Dan At 6824 anytime. 
SENIORS!SENIORS! TICKETS FOR SEMI~FORMAL SENIOR CLASS CHRISTMAS PARTY AT TIPPECANOE PLACE. $6 00/COUPLE, ON SALE DURING LUNCH IN LAFORTUNE HUR~ RY, HURRY, HURRY! 
CAREER WORKSHOP. Sophomores. Jumors, Sen1ors· Do you need help tn dec1d1ng on a career? Placement Bureau Workshop. Tuesday Dec 7. 3:30, Am 222, Ad. Bldg. Call Joan Mcintosh-5200 ~ to s1gn up 
Career Workshop. Sophomores, Juntors, 'ientors. Do you need help 1n dec1d1ng on a ~..c:reer? Placement Bureau Workshop, Tuesday. Dec 7. 3:30. Am 222. Ad Bldg Call Joan Mcintosh ~ 5200 ~to s1gn up 
CAREER WORKSHOP: Sophomores. Jun1ors, Semors: Do you need help tn dectdtng on a career? Placement Bureau Workshop. Tuesday Dec 7. 3:30. Am 222.Ad Bldg.CaiiJoanMclntosh~5200· to s1gn up 
Atlanta 
Atlanta 

ATLANTA Need R1de to Atlanta aner Dec 22 Call Daveat6931 
JELLYBEAN In the qu1et of the n1ght may our candle always "burn, let us never lose the lessons we have learned Y.B.B.M. 
The sun 1sn I warm Without you The sky·s not as blue Without The sun 1sn t warm w1t~ houut you The sky s not as blue Without you L1fe here babe 1s sad and I know the reason why, for I cant even smtle wtthout you Y.B.B.M. 
JUGGLER % P1ck up your free copy of the Fall 1982 Juggler at the follow,ng locallons 
Memonal Library Circulation Desk 
LaFortune Center-Student Act1vtt1es 
Engl1sh Off1ce -309 0 Shag 
Smte Museum 

My dar11ng angel KH. 1m so madly 1n love w1lh you I th1nk of you all the t•me even when I m grad1ng Cheg homeworks and/or runn1ng my catalytiC reactor I want to spend every mrnute of my l1fe w1th you M11an. your galant kmght 1n sh1n1ng armor Lots of love and krsses P S You were great! I could have danced all nrght 
HELP!!!!! I NEED A RIDE TO NYC AND FROM NYC FOR CHRISTMAS BREAK WILL SHARE USUAL PLEASE CALL JACK 6720 
Dorothy Doran, you fool1sh female. you re NOT a failure'! Got that? Bes1des. you d make a LOUSY nun!!' 
JAMES BRADFORD CROSS~~ Thanks for mak1ng Frrday mght so spectal! You re temf1c Love. K1d~o BUY CANDYGRAMS!!!$ 25 only!! 
SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS! Yes, you can buy Observer class1heds at the Sa1nt Marys Observer off1ce Another friendly service brought to you by your favorite campus publication. The Samt Mary's offtce IS located 1n the basement o1 Reg1na South Off1ce hours are noon to 3 p m Monday thru Fnday Drop "by" and 
"buy" a classified soon. 

Cost of stamps effect1ng your Chnstmas correspondence? Buy OBSERVER clas· sified Instead' Available at the N D Ob· server off1ce 9:30 to 3 and the Sa1nt Marys off1ce noon to 3 Monday thru Fnday 
Where is Cheapshot? 
What has happened to it• 

WILL THE CHEAPSHOT SHOW RETURN? WE NEED YOUR SUPPORT! CALL OR WRITE WSND AND TELL THEM HOW YOU FEEL ABOUT THE SHOW BEING SUSPENDED! WSND 
P.O. 502, N.D. IND. 46556. HELPflf 

L;~;~~··-·r~··-;·h·~···~;d~~~~-~-~~g··-b~~·~·k···~~ 
WSND-AM 64 every Monday and Fnday from lOam to 11am! 
DETROIT IN 3 HOURS? GAG ME WITH A PUMPKIN' WE HAVE ROOM FOR ONE MORE TOM WHO? CAN YOU NAME THIS WILD AND CRAZY WOMAN? 20 YEARS OLD-OH MY GOD' HAVE A REALLY SPASTIC B·DAY! KRIS LEONARD WILL BE ACCEPTING BIT· THDAY KISSES ALL DAY IN 7t7 PE/ LOVE ALL YOUR TRAVELING BUDDIES 
NHEY YOU INNSBRUCK LEWISITE'! WE SURE DO MISH YOU!!! WE LOVE YOU SWEETS. HANG IN THEREII THANK YOU FOR SHARING YOUR LETTERS ~THE WILD WOMEN OF LEWIS 
SCHilZ. OIGOD'IT S THE BIG t9'. LIKE. TOTALLY HAVE A FAB BIRTHDAY. OKAY? CELEBRATE TO THE MAX~~ FER SURE. FER SURE"! WE LOVE YOU. YOUR FRIENDS~ THE 2A FARLEY 
WO~~MEN 

Boots. H1ppo blfdy two ewes H1ppo blfdy two ewes H1ppo b•rdy deer Boots H1ppo brrd y two Ewes Love. T1ff. Chrystal. & La Blue Rose 
n KBB. Don I you s~e? You re the only one for me I mtss your sm11e. your warmth. your touch to me you mean so very much! Hope exams fly by w1th ease 
and 1n two weeks 11 s me you If squeeze! 

G1rls I DREW a conclus1on and 1w1ll get nght to the POINT Th1s weekend was a BERRY good lime SKAWSKILY. lhe future CHAPIN up to be awesome My BRIAN IS frazzled I have nothing ELSEY to say but-the? IS--do we have any dip? 
..............................,,,••, •••!''''''''''''"''"''''.... 
Ihe~rver======================================== 
T0 dax===========================-T=u=es=d=a=y=,n==ec=e=m==be=r=7=,=1=9=s=z===p=a=g=e=7 
Doonesbury 


H1 TH!\'CWING-A~U.S 1'RRTY, 


The Daily Crossword 

©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 

Garry Trudeau 
Jeb Cashin 
Campus 
•12:30 
p.m. -Ladies ofNotre Dame Xmas Tea, Srapelron Lounge, Sr. Mary's College 

•4 
p.m. -Switnming, ND Women vs. Wesrern Michigan, Rockne Memorial 

•4 
p.m. -AFROTC Awards, Library Audirorium 

•4:30 
p.m. -Biology Seminar, "Vecror Com· perence: Mosquiro-Virus lnreraction," Dr. Paul Grimsrad, ND, Galvin Life Science Audirorium 

•7 
p.m. -Switnming, ND Men vs. Wesrern Mich· igan, Rockne Memorial 

•7, 
9:15, and 11:30 p.m.-Film, "The Cowboys," Engineering Audirorium, Sponsored by ND Film Club, S1 

•':30 
p.m. -Speech, The Dearh Penalry from a Human Righrs Perspecrive, Prof. Peg Falls, Srapel· ron Lounge, SMC, Sponsored by Amnesry lnrerna­tional 

•8 
p.m.-Basketball, ND vs.lndiana, ACC Arena 

•10 
p.m. -Call-in Talk Show, Speaking of Sporrs, Will Hare, WSND·AM 6-'1 


T.V. Tonight · 
Photius 
t-1AYBE. TH£Y NEV£J{ 
HAD ~N~ FlU ENDS fo tll'l CHKtSIMAS Q.tffS 

6:00p.m. 
6:30p.m. 
7:00p.m. 
7:30 
8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. !O:OOp.m. 
llp.m. 
11:30p.m. 
Br•1an 

16 NewsCemer 16 
28 Newswatch 28 
34 .~-2-1 Contact 
16 NBC Nightly News 
22 CBS News 
28 ABC World News Tonight 
34 Making It Coum 
16 M0A0S0H 
22 Laverne & Shirley 
28 Joker's Wild 
34 The MacNeil/Lehrer Report 
16 All In The Family 
22 Family Feud 
28 Tic Tac Dough 
34 Straight Talk 
16 Notre Dame vs Indiana Basketball 
22 Billy Graham Crusade 
28 Happy Days 
34 Nova 
28 Laverne and Shirley 
16 Gavilan 
22 CBS Tuesday Night Movie 
28 Three's Company 
34 MYSTERY! 
28 9To'5 16 St. Elsewhere 
28 Hart to Hart 
34 Sound Festival 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 
34 Dick Cavett Show 
16 Tonight Show 
22 Quinn & :\1cMillan & Wife 
28 ABC News Nightline 
The saga of a 6 month old domer. 

f 
... 


I. 

ACROSS 32 Greedy 1 Hood 34 Ramshackle 5 Titled 37 Poet Walter 
10 Fake -Mare 14 Samoan port 38 Poor grade 15 Dodge 39 Flush 16 Cut off 40 Dawdle 17 Very chummy 44 Only 19 To shelter 45 Cunning 20 Pipe elbow 46 Betray 21 "Baked in-" 47 Nautical 22 Regale call 23 Sign 49 "War is-" 25 Night on 50 Drifts 
the town 52 Purport 27 Close 55 Gem 28 Bargain 56 Unlock, 
hunter's to poets desire 58 State 29 Meadow positively
Monday's Solution 

59 Certain underwater man 
62 Laborer 63 English dynasty 64 Social 
gatherings 65 Sea bird 66 Tempest 67 Jane-
DOWN 1 Outer 
garment 2 Ring gems 3 Without 
choice 4-Vegas 5 City in R.I. 6 Serve 7 Masculine 8 McMahon 
and Asner 9 African 
ruler 10 Flash 11 American 
revolution· 
ary hero 12 Region 13 Hold a 
session 18 Cabbage 
tree 22 Family­24 Reward for 
bravery 
25 Tag 26 "-the King's Men" 
28 One of the senses 29 Billing and 
cooing 30 Pitcher 31 -Boleyn 32 Sums up 33 Face 
covering 
35 Political figure from Arizona 
36 Fiend 41 River in Belgium 42 Andrea­Sarto 43 End of a 
ship's spar 48 Notice 49 Ms. Lena­50 Small drum 51 Javelin 52 Record 53 "Be it-
so humble" 54 Advertising sign 55 Oriental 
sport 57 Gaelic 59 Rds. 60 Sever 61 Native: 
suff. 

.... 
.........
The Student UrionAcademic Commission Presents: Ore of America's Most Important Political Columrists 
====Richard Reeves==== 'The AmericanJourrey" 
A retracirg of de Toqueville's 1831 tour of the 
U.S. to fird out how democracy is workirg Thursday Dec. 9,1982 8:00p.m. 
-
Wednesday, December 8 8:00p.m. Library Auditorium 
Library Aud1torium 
.....................¥~¥¥¥1f..¥¥¥¥¥¥-¥¥ 


Tuesday, December 7, 1982-page 8
S~orts 
t 
......._ 
:::_.., 

Notre Dame freshman forward Tim Kempton, shown here going up over UCLA's Stuart Gray for two ofhis 17 points Saturday, bas been a pleasant surprise in his first season. Kempton, from Oyster Bay, NY., is averaging 11 points a game and will start again tonight against Indiana. (Photo by Pete Laches) 
Season opener 

Men's swimming team hosts WMU 
By THERON ROBERTS 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's swimming team begins its 1982-83 season tonight against Western Michigan, with hopes of attaining the level of success it has enjoyed over the past two years. 
Coach Dennis Stark, who begins his 25th season as the Irish mentor, 
...._ returns most of the lettermen from last year's 9-J team. However, Notre Dame must contend with the losses of standouts Mike Shepardson, John Willamowski, and co-captains Don Casey and john Gibbons. Shepardson graduated with var­sity records in the 50-yard freestyle ( :21.4) and the 100 buttertlv ( :50.9). Willamowski holds the tea~ mark in both the l 00-yard 
'We have some slots 

open due to graduation, 
but we also have the 
people to fill them ... ' 

breaststroke ( I :02. :') and the 200­vard breaststroke ( 2: 16.1 ). Casey had held the top position in tht: but­terflv for four vears, while Gibbons was 'a valuable 'swimmer in a variety ofevents. 
times, but they don't have collegiate experience, so we'll just have to wait and see." 
Top returnees for the Irish in­clude senior co-captains Greg Bob­dan and Paul McGowan. Bohdan enters the season as Notre l Dame's top freestyle sprinter and is one of the quartet who holds the 400­(J:09.0J) and 800-yard (6:57.1) freestyle relay records. McGowan is 
the No. I diver on the squad, return­ing for the third straight year at that position. 
Junior AI Harding, last season's most valuable swimmer, established varsity records in the I 00-yard freestyle ( :46.7 ), as well as the 200­yard freestyle (I :42.2 ). Harding also owns part of the 400-and 800-yard freestyle relays, as well as part ofthe 400-yard medley relay record 
. ( J:34.1). Senior Gary Severyn is a freestyle specialist who will also help in the breastroke and individual medley. He is a member of the record­breaking 400-yard freestyle relay team. junior Tim Jacobs will swim the longer freestyle races, and shares the 800-yard freestyle relay record. The Irish appear to be strongest in the backstroke events. Senior Glenn Battle returns with the 200-yard backstroke record (I :59.1 ). Sopho­more Tim Bohdan holds the record in the I00-yard backstroke ( :5'!.-t) and also has the top mark in the 500­yard freestyle ( '!:46. 5). Providing depth for the Irish will he ,• •nior newcomer Bill Green (short freestyle) and fr~shmen john Coffey (backstroke), john Allan and .\like Hayn~s (breaststroke), Tom Adams and \1ike Hanahan. "We don't know the strengths of the Western Michigan team," Stark says, "so I guess all we can do is put 
Paxson questionable \ 
Irish con1plete 'Cro"Wn,'face IU 
By CHRIS NEEDLES 
Sports Editor 
Traditionally, the third jewel of horse racing's Triple Crown -the mile-and-a-half Belmont Stakes -is the toughest and most grueling of them all. 
Tonight at th~: ACC, Notre Dame completes its version of the Triple Crown by playing host to Bobby Knight's Indiana Hoosiers. Tipoffis 8 
p.m. (Channel 16, ESPN ). 
The sixth-ranked Hoosiers may not have the enormous depth and talent of Kentucky or UCLA, hut overall they might he the best­coached and most fundamentally sound of the three. 
Indiana, J-0 on the season after victories at Miami of Ohio ( 75-59 ), and at home against Ball State ( 91­
75) and Texas-El Paso (65-54 ), returned all five starters from last season's 19-9 team that made the NCAA Tournament. 
"I really don't know how good our 
team can be," says Knight, who is in 
his 12th year at the Bloomington 
campus. "Even though we have 
everyone back, we have to show im­
provements in a lot ofareas ifwe are 
to become a good team." 
So far, lU has had few problems in 
any facet ofits gameplan in dispatch­
ing its three opponents. Senior 
Randy Wittman, a 6-6 forward from 
Indianapolis, leads the scoring 
parade, pumping in 25 points a game 
while shooting 61 percent from the 
field. He had a season-high J I 
against Miami last week. 
"Randy has been into our games at both ends of the floor," says Knight. "A game and a season revolves 
meet has been changed because ot tonight's Indiana basketball game. The women's meet will begin at 4 p.m., with the men's contest im­mediately following at about 6 p.m. 
Rumorhas it, ND's new ~coach is • • • 
The rumors began before the season wa' over. But they came to the fore after Notre Dame's loss to South­ern Cal. 
ESPN, the 24-hour sports network, was first. Irish players were not yet out of the LA. Coliseum locker room when a SponsCenter anchor man announced that Gerry Faust was to he firt:d and Ara Parseghian rehired. 
Yesterday, on a howl-game preview, the Mizlou net­work announced that UCLA's Terrv Donahue would leave the Bruins after the Rose Bowt'to take over under the Golden Dome. 
These are just the most widely-publicized rumors. The Observer ha..' learned that tht:re are indeed plans for a coaching change, and potential candidates are already jockeying for position. 
Willie Shoemaker, the biggeM winner ofall time, says he has spoken with Notre Dame athletic officials. Shoemaker says that he, Sports Information Director Roger Valdiserri, and Associate Athletic Director Col. john Stephens "see eye to eye on the future ofthe Notre Dame program." 
A prominent Massachusetts Catholic has rect·ntly made himself available. Edward Kennedy will not run for president in 191-l-~. and source~ close to the senator tell us that he would rather havt: "the second-toughest job in America" than the tirst. When rcacht.:d at his Hyannisport home, 1\.ennt.•dy would say only that "I will cross that bridge whc:n I come to it." 
The word out of 1\iew York b that lloward Co~dl had ulterior motives in quitting the boxing ~cenc. Now that both Muhammed Ali and Sugar Ray Leonard have retired, an ABC ofticial told his barber. who told a friend of The Obsen•er's van driver, who told me, Cosell will take the job as soon as \londay Night Football is over. 
There are others, as well. 
around concentration and I think \\'ittman's concentration is as good as I've ever seen it." 
Although Wittman has been the main source of offense for Ill so far, he has also tlexed his muscles a little on defense as well. Against Ball State, Wittman scored 28, but also held all­America-candidate Ray McCallum to just four points in 3J minutes of ac­tion. 
joining Wittman at the other for­ward spot will be fellow senior Ted Kitchel, a 6-8, 220-pounder from Galveston, Ind. Kitchel, who has averaged 16 points a game so far, burned the Irish with 22 points off the bench to lead the Hoosiers to a 69-55 victory last December at As­sembly Hall in Bloomington. 
6-8 senior Steve Bouchie (Washington, Ind.) has displaced in­effective 7-2 Uwe Blab at center. Blab, the highly touted sophomore from Germany, has been in constant foul trouble in the early going. Bouchie, meanwhile, is averaging 8 points a game and is shooting 61 per­cent. 
Any problems, at least offensively, that the Hoosiers have had this season have come from the back­court, where starting seniors Jim Thomas and Tony Brown are shoot­ing a combined 14-of-36 ( 39 per­cent). As a unit, IU guards are shooting just 36 percent. 
But, of course, defense funds the scholarships at Indiana. So far, the Hoosiers have held opponents to 63 points a game and 47 percent shoot­ing. 
"Our defense has improved since the Russian game (an exhibition loss last month)," says the 41-year-old Knight. "We've broken open our games because of good defensive play." 
Irish coach Digger Phelps is a close friend ofKnight and a longtime admirer of Knight's work. And whereas his respect for Kentucky's joe B. Hall is nonexistant, and his respect for UCLA lies more with its program than with Larry Farmer, Phelps places Knight at the top ofhis list. 
Skip Desjardin 

Digger Phelps is reportedly telling close friends that he'd he happy to take over both sports, as long as he also got to take over both corner offices in the ACC. Phelps has long been rumored a..' the man behind the 1977 Green jersey Gimmick. and once said that John Paxson would make a great tailback. It is assumed that, should Phelps actually get the job. Paxson would carry the ball on almost every play. 
Secretary of the Interiorjames Watt has not come out and declared that he's a candidate, but Washington in­siders say Watt is always talking about "exploiting resources to the greatest advantage." Those statements have been interpreted as out and-out criticism of Faust's handling of talented players. 
A secretarv in the Administration Building was over­heard saying that Father Edmund _Ioyce would "sec to the matter personally" Another ~ecretary. who pur­ports to have actually seen _Ioyce ont't'. says that's a sure sign that the l'niversity'~ executivt: viet· president will appoint him~clf to the: position. 
Dissident football fan~ in Russia claim. in a letter 
smuggled out of the country in a can of caviar, that 
Leonid Brezhnev b not really lkad. The formc:r Soviet 
President, who built the: l'<Juntry into an offensive 
power in his years at the helm, will reportedly rely on "a 
major arms build-up" to turn the ;\;otre Dame football 
'·Bobby'!> not a complicated coach," says Phelps of Knight, who has won two national champion­ships, an NIT tirle and six Big Ten crowns in his years at IF "He just works hard to g~t the results he does. I like the way Indiana's being programmed so they peak at tourna­mt·nt rime. They have the best defensive team in the country, but that's the way Bobby always es­tablishes things. 
"Bobby's teams are always good. Before the year's over, they're gonna creep up on some people. They don't need to win the Big Ten title­they won ir all in 1981 and didn'r even win their conference. Thev have quickness, maturity and the}· know each other well." 
Phelps' team, meanwhile, is com­ing off a heartbreaking 65-64 loss to UCLA Saturday night, and is 2-2 on the season. But what may be even more heartwrenching for Irish fans is that all-America guard John Pax­son, whose 25 points helped keep .the Irish within shouting distance of 
the  Bruins,  has.  not  practiced  all  
wc:ek.  
Paxson,  who  is  averaging  1 7  

points a game, hurt a tendon in his knee in Sunday's practice, and did not practice yesterday. Phelps hopes the injury heals in time, and expects Paxson to be in the starting lineup tonight. 
The Irish once again will go with a starting five that includes three freshmen -forward Tim Kempton, center Ken Barlow and guardjoseph Price -along with Paxson and senior forward Bill Varner. 
Kempton .came into his own on Saturday, scoring 17 points by con­tinually taking the ball down low for power layups. 
"With Kempton, we've been able to get the ball inside with consis­tency," says Phelps. "That's a dimen­sion of Notre Dame basketball we haven't seen in two years. Give (Assistant Coach) john Shumate a lot of credit for what he's done working with the freshmen 
See IU, page 6 

"We have some slots open due to our best people in each event and A source in Na~hville says former Michigan State fortunes around. Kremlin-Corl11' watchers say this is an graduation, but we also have the take it from there." Coach Muddy Waters is in line for the job, but that B. B. indication that Brezhnev will r~cruit a large number of
-
people to fill them," says Stark. • * * * * King and Matt"( iuitar" Murphy both say they are think­quarterbacks. "Some of the new people have good The time ofthe Western Michigan ing about it as well. 
See RUMORS, page 6 




