-----~-------~----~~-~--~--------------------­
Boneheads -page 2
I I I 

VOL. XVII, NO. 7 the independent student newspaper serving notre Jame and saint mary's TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1982 
Revolutionaries attack embassy 
BERN, Switzerland (AP) -An tacted by telephone said there were armed band of professed anti­"eight or nine" hostages. communist revolutionaries burst in­
to the Polish Embassy here Police sealed off the area around yesterday and were holding off 
the embassy, located on a tree-lined police with a threat to "blow this 
street in the normally quiet sector of 
shack away and everyone in it" un­Switzerland's federal capital, soon af­less martial law is lifted in their ter the gunmen forced their way in homeland. 
about 10 a.m. Their leader, who identified him­
,Wysocki said "warning shots"self only as Col. Wysocki of the were fired in the attack, but there"Polish Revolutionary Home Army," were no injuries and "the mood istold The Associated Press in a calm, with no panic." He said the at­telephone interview ..that his group tackers are armed with "heavywas heavily armed arid was holding machine guns."
13 "diplomatic personnel" hostage. He said they had 55 pounds of Informed sources in Warsaw said dynamite and would blow up the the government may ask Swiss au­embassy, with themselves in it, ifthe thorities to contact the gunmen inPolish government does not meet its behalf, bllt the report could nottheir demands within 48 hours, or be confirmed.
midmorning tomorrow. Wysocki refused to say how many Swiss police spokesman Daniel 
William Dawhare and Tom Grogean, both signed up for the Accounting Club, one of the
people were in his group. A police Eckmann said a federal crisis team 
business majors, are among several students who many clubs displayed at Activities Night. (Photo
official said, "According to our in­had been assembled to deal with the 
by Scott Bower)
formation, there are about three takeover. suspected terrorists." Their demands also included release of "political prisoners" and 
First meeting 
an "end to repression" iri' Poland, where authorities still are holding 650 of the thousands of Solidarity 
Student Senate discusses Senior Bar alternatives 
supporters interned when martial law was declared last Dec. 13. 
ByDANKOPP Vice President Bob Yonchak an­faculty and staff members to com· titude," he explained. Next, the ap­There have been anti-government StaffReporter nounced his project ofa "job bank." prise theJudicial Review Board. This pointments must be approved byprotests in Poland since then, and He plans to contact local merchants board accepts and judges student University President Fatherunrest swept the nation last week on A plan to hold weekly non­and give them a chance to publish appeals of decisions by the Dean of Theodore Hesburgh before they arethe second anniversary of alcoholic events at the Alumnae­South Also at the meeting last Students. 
official.
Solidarity's founding. But the embas­
Senior Club was revealed at the first night, Student Body Treasurer John sy takeover was believed to be the "It's not used very much," Stierer
Student Senate meeting last night. Eichenlaub called attention to a five 
first terrorist attack on foreign soil said. "It's probably only been used Stierer nominated and the Senate
"In the future, Sunday nights from dollar increase in the student ac­
"8ainst the martial law regime. four or five times in the last four
7 to 10 p.m. will be reserved for un­tivities fee. This gives the student accepted Juanita Cleveland, Donald 
Wysocki, who claimed to be a de­years. It's still very important, Sister Jean Lenz,
Dedric!,, Louisdergraduates," said Student Body government an additional 535,000
scendant oftwo 19th century Polish President Lloyd Burke. Food and however." Cohen, Thomas Kirshner, Fred
to allocate to clubs and organiza­
rebels, said the group was not con­
soft-drinks will be served and some Baumer, and Professors David nected with the suspended Polish live musical events will probably be twenty-four nominated by the Dodge, Ethan Haimo, Katherine 
tions. Stierer chose the twelve from 
labor union Solidarity. Swiss authori­Stephen Karl
planned. Finally, Judicial Coordinator Faculty Senate. "We were looking Blackstead, Hayes, 
ties and Solidity spokesmen else­Kronstein, and Larry Ballinger. 
Burke also reported that Chatau­Kevin Stierer proposed twelve for people with a 'pro-stu~ent' at-
where in Europe said they had never qua, which had been subsidized byheard of the "army." 
the University, will no ·longer The Polish Foreign Ministry receive such funds. "It''s up to us to Eating disorder 
refused to comment on the gun­pick up the ball and run with it -if men's demands, saying only that the we want to," he said. The Student Bern embassy was seized and that its Union will support the entertain­



Bulimia prevalant among women
chief diplomatic officer, Charge ment center if the student govern­d'Affaires Stanislaw R. Dobrowolski, ment decides it is worthwhile. 

ByJOHN SPENDLEY food obseJsion, hinging, vomiting, explain the cause of Bulimia was in Poland on vacation. In other business, Student Body self-starvation or to
News Staff and purging One theory suggests that in early achieve severe weight loss or main-childhood the bulimic was sheltered tain ·normal weight. 
and not able to have an open expres­
Psychologists say an eating disor-Rybicki said the bulimic loves sion ofemotion. der similar to anorexia nervosa is food and can go on binges for up to But research is still in early stages becoming a serious concern for two hours. "These binges, which and the causes remain uncertain. college-age women. usually occur daily, consist ofa rapid Rybicki is certain of one thing ­
Bulimia, more prevalent among. intake of high caloric foods." the bulimic has little chance of get­young females, is an illness that is When on a binge the bulimic en­ting better on her own. characterized by a binge-purge ters somewhat of an "altered con­He says that the bulimic must cycle which serves as a way for ·sciousness", Rybicki says, and this realize the problem and seek out people to cope with various social serves as a way to phase out the rest help somewhat like an alcoholic problems. ofthe world. must do to cure himself of al­
Psychologist Dan Rybicki said ~----------coholism. 
women who have trouble dealing 'Regardless ofher One way to get help is to par­with the changing role of females in ticipate in a therapy group. Wday's society may develop Rybicki is forming therapy
weight, she always
bulimia sessions through the Notre Dame 
Rybicki, a psychologist for the Psychological Services Center. Notre Dame Psychological Services views herself It will be 10 week program start­Center, said some studies reveal that ing Septell,lber 13 and will meet for over 1 5 percent of college females 10 successive Monday nights frGm
as beingfat... ' 
may suffer from this disorder. 5-9 p.m. Bulimia should not be confused Dinner will be included in the with Anorexia Nervosa, another He compares this hinging to the program to help teach better nutri­
more commonly known (but not drinking ofan alcoholic. tion. more commonly occuring), eating When not on a binge, the bulimic Other features of the program in­disorder. abstains from eating -which means clude guest nutrition speakers and 
Rybicki said the anorexic sees that the food intake ofa bulimic con­stress management and depression food as evil and has a fear ofbeing fat. sists only of the junk food eaten on therapy. "Regardless of her weight, she al­the binges. Particiption in the program is 
severe
ways views herself as being fat," he This results in nutrition limited and to reserve a slot Dr. said. · problems which can be fatal. Rybicki should be contacted at 239­Characteristics ofBulimia include Many theories have developed to 7336. 




iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii-•.;-­



News Brie/§ 
By The ( Jbserwr and The Associated Press 
A lagging economy and rising interest rates have plunged Indiana's private aviation industry into a tailspin, pilots say. "Things are definitely slow in our industry," said Mick Pittard, owner ofIndianapolis Aviation Inc. "Those not in aviation don't realize the scope and size of our problems. But we are one of the largest in­dustries that has been hit by the economy." Except for military aircraft and scheduled airlines, private aviation operators handle everything from crop dusters and traffic helicopters to small inter­continental jets. Recently, however, small planes have kept the in­dustry alive. But operators now say the recession has left them with large inventories and rising debts at a time when the demand for private aviation services is dropping in every area except corporate aviation. And spokesmen for the Washington-based National Air Transportation Association say they're worried that that the economy will force a fourth of their 1,000 members out ofbusiness 
this year. -AP 
Students bussed from predominantly black urban schools to mostly white suburban schools in Indianapolis for the last year say they're getting a good education but don't feel a part ofthe social mainstream, a study shows. "Overall, all the kids felt pretty good about school academically," said Indiana University psycholo­gy professor Robert Wolf, who conducted a survey the Indiana Cen­ter for Evaluation made for the state. But the students "segregate in halls, the lunchrooms and whenever possible," he added. Wolf directed a teani of researchers in the study, which involved responses to 83 questions by 4,879 students at the end ofthe 1982 school year. Both black and white students were polled. -AP 
A salvage boat skipperwho has been charged with disturbing the wreckage ofa boat that sank in Lake Michigan 71 years ago says he was on a vacation -not looking for sunken treasure. Joe Walsh, 27, owner ofthe two barges and tugboat involved, says he did 
• not knowingly disturb a historic site when he and his four-man crew salvaged items from the wooden cargo boat J.D. MarshalL "We'd be out ofour minds to go out there ifwe knew it was illegal," said Walsh, who is from Holland, Mich. Officials of the Department of Natural . Resources say charges of "unauthorized alteration of historical property" have been filed against Walsh and his crew, Don Fischer, 25, Charles Van Alsburg, 22, Steve Streur, 22, and Randy Nieusma, 
29. All are from Holland, Mich. The charges were filed late last week DNR officials could not be reached yesterday for additional com­ment. -AP 
Former SecretaryofStateAlexander M. HaigJr. 
will go back to work for United Technologies Corp. as a part-time­consultant and chairman of its new international advisory commit­tee, the corporation announced yesterday. Haig, 57, was president and chiefoperating officer of UTC for one year immediately before becoming secretary of state under President Reagan in January 1981. He resigned two months ago after feuding steadily with other administration officials. Haig will help select other members of the advisory commiuee, whose size has not yet been determined, according to Frank Giusti, a public relations spokesman for UTC, which has headquarters in Hartford. "The committee will organize and conduct a program in the development ofassessments ofsocial, political and economic trends in all areas of the world," Giusti said. 
-AP 
The United States has 50 percent more nuclear weapons than the Soviet Union, despite President Reagan's assertion that the Russians have the upper hand, a liberal-oriented defense group asserted yesterday. The United States has stockpiles of about 12,000 atomic warheads, compared to about 8,000 for the Soviets, said the Center for Defense Information, a private, non-profit group which has in the past criticized defense spending increases. Reagan has proposed a $215.9 billion Pentagon spending plan for the new fiscal 1983 budget year starting Oct. I -a peacetime record 15.9 
percent jump in outlays. He said U.S. defenses must be modernized to compete with the Soviets. Replying to a question during a nation­ally broadcast news conference last March 31, Reagan said, "The truth of the matter is that on balance the Soviet Union does have a definite margin ofsuperiority, enough so that there is a risk and there is what I have called, as you all know, several times, a window of vulnerability." That statement renewed a longstanding debate about the relative strength ofU.S. and Soviet nuclear forces. -AP 
Defense Minister Ariel Sharon demanded 
yesterday that Lebanon sign a peace treaty with Israel, suggesting that if it does not Israel will maintain permanent control over south­ern Lebanon. Sharon said that if the new Lebanese government of Christian President-elect Bashir Gemayel refuses to sign a treaty, southern Lebanon will have "a different status." He said that without a peace pact, "we will secure a 40-50 kilometer ( 2 5-30 mile) wide seurity strip to keep it clear ofartillery pieces and a threat ofterrorist activity." He made the remarks to a cheering crowd in the Israeli 
border town of Kiryat Shmonah, which made him an honorary citizen because of Israel's june 6 invasion of Lebanon that ended Palestinian guerrilla attacks along the frontier. The had-line Sharon put forth his treaty demand as reports in Tel Aviv indicated disagree­ment among Israeli leaders over how hard to press Gerayal for a peace pact. -AP 
Former first lady Bess Truman, 
hospitalized in Kansas City. Mo., with an ulcer, developed a slight fever yesterday but remained in fair condition, her physician said. "She didn't sleep too well," said Dr. Wallace Graham, the family's longtime doctor. "However, I'm not overly concerned. Her tem­perature is slightly elevated but there's no cause for alarm." Graham said the 97-year-old widow of President Harry S. Truman remained alert, and that her pulse was strong and regular. He said her age required a continual watch of all clinical signs. As she has during previous hospitalizations, Truman has been receiving one yellow rose a day from an anonymous well-wisher, a hospital spokeswoman said. -AP 
Mostly cloudy today with 2o percent chance of rain. High in mid 60s. Twenty percent chance ofrain tonight early, tht.n becoming partly cloudy towards morning. Low in low 50s. Tomorrow, partly sunny and mild. High in low 70s. -AP 
Tuesday, September 7, 1982 -page 2 

Beware of the boneheads 
Bonehead, adj. having a calcified cranium; devoid of grey matter; moronically mindless; syn: fool, dolt, nud­nick, administrator. 

They are everywhere, you can't escape them. Those people who by their very nature, conspire to compl­icate and confuse your life. These are "the boneheads." You don't know when they are going to strike. In fact, ylJu can't always identify them, for they hide behind masks of competency, ready to pounce on the un­suspecting. 
Attending college introduces a person to minions of boneheads. In fact, college is worthwhile if for no other reason than it prepares a person for the frustrations of later life. Here at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, a well developed course in Boneheadism 10 I is offered unoffi­cially to all. 
Many people would consider the maid who ignores their 'Do Not Disturb' sign and empties the trash at eight in the morning, or the dining hall worker who, despite one's pleas to the contrary, sends your entree adrift in gravy, as examples of boneheadism. However, these are simply examples ofpeople trying their best at a job that brings them into contact with students who are often boneheads them-


wouldn't feel so fiscally compelled. And of course no one can question the logic of the 
N.D. mound that greets campus visitors. What better thing could be found for drunken fans to drive over af­-ter the Michigan game? 
These are examples of false boneheadism. However you don't have to look far to find the real thing: take the people responsible for the Fitzpatrick Hall ofEngineer­ing. Since the structure's lavish dedication a couple of years ago, the building has been plagued by leaks, nameplates on doors didn't even stay up long enough for the glue to dry, and classrooms are bisected by massive pillars. The casual observer can identify one failure after another, all to the tune of several million dollars. 
Examining the schedule 

selves. The true bonehead offines for violating campus does not waste his time on traffic rules, a unique set of such trivia. He seeks to prionues becomes ap­cause the maximum an­parent. Speeding on campus noyance to the most people, can result in a ten dollar fine, using logic that defies the same holds for driving reason. down asidewalk or lawn. Of­
Here at Notre Dame, the fenders can also opt for a art ofbonebeadism has been package deal that combines perfected. However, three or more charges under identifying true boneheads the charge of reckless is not always easy. Of­driving. This charge is a bar­tentimes, ulterior motives gain at 25 dollars. However are hidden behind a facade should the hapless person of inanity. A good example commit the mortal sin ofnot occured a few years ago: a displaying a parking sticker, serious overcrowding the fine isfifty dollars. Thus problem existed on campus, the wise violator will at-
and some method was needed to encourage stu­dents to live off-campus. The solution was to propose a lottery that would randomly send students packing. The rules for this system were so inane that many stu­dents voluntarily fled off-campus rather then become a lottery victim. Thus, what was seemingly a bonehead move, actually accomplished its purpose. 
Another example of false boneheadism involves the Snite Gallery. Many people have questioned the logic of spending money on frivolous structures such as the Snite, when more important buildings like the Dome and many of the dorms are in such sorry states. Once again, a veil of boneheadism hides cold logic. Alumni, whose contributions pay most of the bills, come to campus and are dazzled by structures like the Snite Gallery. However, when visiting their old dorm room they are greeted by a cockroach, or worse are beaned by falling plaster in the Dome. Suddenly, this affluent individual who is impressed by the great strides of the University, is driven to donate more money to help fix up the older buildings. Ifthis alum were to visit campus and see only immaculate buildings, he probably 


Design Editor.......... . ............. Tim Neely Design Assistr-mts......................... Troy Illig Laura Puk 'Vito' Cerabona Sarah llamilwn Tom Small ( O.C.) Typesetters ...........-........ we forgot (sorry) Mark Miotto News Editor........................... Michele Dietz Copy Editor ...... Valerie Evans B & TLayout ............................. Alex Szilvas Editorials La)'out....................... Tim Neely Sports Copv iMilor... .. .. Chris Needles Photographer........................... Scott Bower Guest Appearances Monica (minus P.B.) Squishea<l Ryan Roberta Ann Jack Flash 
'When I think back on all the crap I learned In high school, It's a wonder I can think a( aiL· 
3:13 AM 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The 
tempt to mow down stu­dents rather then risk paying twice the fine for being stickerless. 
Students have no reason to be smug. Many are merely fools waiting to mature into full-fledged boneheads. Take the individual who complains about how rotten the "townies" are, how they don't appreciate Notre Dame, and then proceeds to get drunk at the bars and relieve himself on some local's yard. Or the nag who thinks student government is worthless, but never bot­hers to vote, or attempt any constructive involvement. 
So the sad reality is that the boneheads are everywhere. In fact to some extent we all contribute to the problem. There is hope. First off, each one of us must avoid joining the ranks of the boneheads. Take that extra moment to consider your actions. Are they the best for all involved? Secondly, the forces offoolish­ness only win when you let them. Speak up, get in­
volved,  don't  just  idly  sit  by  and  be  victimized.  
Remember,  if you  give  in  to  the  boneheads,  you  
become one yourself.  

.Now WitL


s,, ft• 
,, 
(" 11/Charr''s
rom left ,., . II 
0 r19ht) 
Sue Nlotth
L
ouro 8 ews 
Sue A Osore 

•
Pou/ orPort lo,.,e,.ty ofc.o Jones (rthich isDllllllandPetfo out of bus. 'l'lllance
Th lness) Rich ;>'Jo;ll 
Su 0.Oddens & 

Observer IS publ1shed by the students of Notre Dame and Satnt Marys Col­
277-0734 e •ckers011lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year i$15 per semester) by wnt1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 
~ir Richd 

Notre Dame Jnd1ana 46556 The Observer IS a member of The 

} 1ERSONALIZED HAIR DESIGNS 
NEW HOURS: 

Associated Press All reproduction 
for men and women
r1ghts are reserved 
Monday thru Friday 9·8 

Second class postage pa1d at Notre 
Visit Our Location at 417 Dixieway NorthSaturday 8-3
Dame Indiana 46556 
in Roseland across from Wendy's 


The Observer Tuesday, September 7, 1982-page 3 
Amid unemployment 

Labor parades revived in cities 



Get to the answers faster. 
( AP) -Three cities revived the traditional workers' parade yester­day and unions blamed President Reagan for the worst unemployment in 40 years as Americans celebrated or mourned the state of organized labor on the IOOth anniversary of the first Labor Dav. 
AFL-CIO President Lane Kirkland told a crowd in Texas that the Reagan administrauon "knows the price ofeven·thtng m dollars and the value of nothing on the scale of humanity." 
But Labor Secretary Ravmond Donovan said in a relevisio~ inter­view that R(~a~an was sensitive to "the ills of unemplovment,'' and he predicted the jobless rate, which stood at 9.8 percent of the labor force in July and August, would begin to drop in the fall. 
Budget showdown imminent 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Congress 
returns from its Labor Day recess 
this week facing seemingly heavy 
odds against overriding President 
Reagan's veto of a $14 billion sup­
plemental appropriations bill. 
Although White House spokes­

men say they anticipate "an uphill 
battle" in getting Congress to sustain 
the Aug. 28 veto, House Speaker 
Thomas P. O'Neill, 0-l'ytass., ack­
nowledges g~::tting the necessary , 
two-thirds vote in both chambers 
will he wugh. 
Senate Majority Leader Howard H. Baker Jr., R-Tenn.., has said Reagan will win this newest budgetary showdown with Congress. 
A house override vote could take place as early as tomorrow. If the House sustains the veto, the matter will nor reach the Senate since both chambers must vote to override. 
Caught in the middle are some 
19,000 Internal Revenue Service 
workers, who face midweek layoffs 
unless there·~ a quick resolution of 
the money quarrel or an internal agency transfer of funds, which re­quires written authorization by the head'> of the congressional budget panels. 
Tens of thousands ofothers in the federal work force, at such agencies as the departments of Labor and Health and Human Services and the National Aeronautics and Space Ad­ministration, could be forced to take unpaid leave time by Sept. I 5 ·unless the impasse is resolved. 
The appropriations bill, among other things, would have provided money to meet payrolls through the remainder of the current fiscal year, which ends Sept. 30. 
The problem stems in part from the fact Congress approved a pay raise for the 2.I million federal civilian work force last Oct. 1, but did not provide enough money to meet payrolls under the higher scale through the end of the current budget year. 
Rocco's Hair 
• Styling 

531 N. Michigan St.. South Bend· Phone 233-4957 , 
Burly iron workers and high school bands marched in In­dianapolis in the city's first Labor Day parade in 40 years. "In the past we may have concentrated too 
much on baseball games, picnics and fishing trips," said Loran Robbins, head of the largest Teamsters local in the state, which had an I1.I per­cent jobless rate in july. 
Marchers paraded down Michigan Avenue in Chicago's first Labor Day parade by organized labor in 30 years, and the first Labor Day parade since the I940s rolled through Den­ver. 
Arizona oftl.ccr~ manned roadblocks to catch drunken drivers as the !>tate tried to cut the number of Labor Day weekend road acci­dents. The nationwide highway death toll had passed ::S50 yesterday afternoon. 
There were the usual rollicking celebrations on the three-day weekend that traditionally means ihe end of summer: raft regattas on the Missouri and Arkansas rivers and mud stomping in Maine. 
And there were somber remin­ders of unemployment: Parishioners at the A.M.E. Church in Baltimore were asked yesterday to offer jobs 

What you need to tackle the and hyberbolics-at the touch the entire formula. · higher mathematics of a science of a button. And it can also be Included is the Calculator or engineering curriculum are programmed to do repetitive Decision-Making Sourcebook. 
more functions-more func­problems without re-entering It makes the process of using tions than a simple slide-rule 
theTI-55-II even simpler, and calculator has. shows you how to use all the Enter the Tl-55-ll, with 112 power of the calculator. powerful functions. You can 
Get to the answers ~ 

work faster and more accurate­faster. Let a TI-55-II ly with theTI-55-II, because it's show you how. preprogrammed to perform complex calculations-like de­TEXAS finite integrals, linear regression INSTRUMENTS 
._e;. 1982 TL·xns lnsrrument!. 

instead of money when the offering plates were passed around. Mar­chers in Racine, Wis., wore black armbands Sunday inscribed with 250,000, which march organizers said is the number of the state's job­less. 
About 6,000 teachers were on strike in Pennsylvania, Michigan, Il­linois and Ohio, threatening the beginning of school for more than 
I00,000 students. 

"Today there are as many un­
employed Americans as there were 
in 1934," Kirkland said in San An­
tonio at the unveiling of a statue of 
union pioneer Samuel Gompers. 
Gompers, who helped found the 
American Federation of Labor in 
I886 and died in San Antonio in 
I924 at age 74, is memorialized by a 
16-foot-tall marble, bronze and 
oyster-shell statue -surrounded by 
12 seven-foot-tall statues of 
American workers. 

Kirkland quoted him as saying in 
19I4 it is "a false and unwise 
economy and a lack of statesman­
ship to retrench public ex­
penditures and improvements when 
such course means suffering, misery 
and hunger." Kirkland said President 
Reagan should read those words. 
~ 
.... ~­
... 
'>l<· 
•
~ 
..•• ~ 



With the11-55--II. 

The Observer Tuesday, September 7, 1982-page 4 
SMC Activities Night 
Come In AndSee What We Have In Store For You 



The following is a list of tables for Saint Mary's Activities Night. The event starts at 8:00 p.m. tonight at the Angela Athletic Facility. 
1. 
Information 


2. 
Fun and Learn -Children's Dis­pensary 

3. 
Volunteer Services 

4. 
Campus Ministry 


5. 
Christian llie Commission 

6. 
Cross Cultural Club ' 7. CILA 



8. Shenanigansr---------------------...,.• 9. St. Adrian Council
10. Pax Christi 




wsno AM 
FM 

"EEDSYOU! 
Interviewsfor AM. FM. news._Sports. Production. PR. Engineering.and Sales 
no experience required! sign-up 8:00pm
I WED sharp 
239-7342 or 239-7425


lfirch. fiud. 
for details
~L------------------------------·-----------------~ 
Store Hours 
Weekdays---8-9 Saturday---8-8 Sunday hours as noted 
Prjces effective through Sunday, September 12 
with weekly specials 
• 
Speedy checkouts e Photo finishing service e Gourmet foods 

• 
In store bakery 

• 
Delicatessen-



From the Delicatessen 
Oscar Mayer  Mild.  Jarlsl!~rg  
~EEF  CQLBY  SWISS  
BOLOGNA  CHEESE  CHEESE  
$2.291b.  $2.591b. $3.981b.  

Twin loaves freshly baked 

FRENCH BREAD-16oz 69~ 
e Fresh fish department 
• 
Large variety of wines 

• 
Everyday low beer prices with weekly prices 

• 
Large variety of health and beauty aids 


11. 
SMC Varsity Athletics 

12. 
Athletics 

13. 
Intramurals 

14. 
Dolphin Club 

15. 
Film Club 

16. 
Campus Crusade for Christ 

1
7. Right to llie 

18. 
World Hunger Coalition 

19. 
Blue Mantle 

20. 
Observer 

21. 
Scholastic 


22. 
Student ACtivities Programming Board 

23. 
Student Government 

24. 
Freshman Council 

25. 
Head Start 

26. 
Abiogenesis Dance Collective 

27. 
ND Management Club 

28. 
ND Pre-Law Society 

29. 
Neighborhood Study Program 

30. 
Chemistry Club 

31. 
Business Club 

32. 
Urban Plunge 

33. 
S.U.R.E. 



....And much, much more! 

, , 

MELANGE~ 

Corner of Ironwood and St. Rd. 23 Greenwood Shopping Center South Bend (Sunday 9-5) 
McKi!!!ey Suare 501 N. Hickory 
Southjl~nd 
(Sunday 10-6) 

(Weekdays 8-1 0) AND 7 OTHER LOCATIONS IN SOUTH BEND, MISHAWAKA & ELKHART 
SAVE UP TO $1.5Q­umit 3 with coupon 

below 



PEPSI 
You must redeem the coupon below for this special price 
Corner of Portag anaEiwoOc:l South Bend (Sunday 9-5) 
K-Mart Plaza 424 W. Mc_!5inley Mishawaka 
(Sun. 10-6) 



The Observer Tuesday, September 7, 1982-page 5 
Atsummit ********************************~ 
* *


Arab leaders back Reagan plan :, CE}IE~ill£IL 5 
FEZ, Morocco (AP)-Arab kings The Bahrain-based Gulf News Arabs tor their peace treaty with Is­
i ~w~ i
and presidents met in this ancient Agency, quoting sources at the rael and were not invited to Fez. religious capital yesterday to discuss three-day Arab League summit here, The other Arab nations are not ex­a possible joint peace initiative, and said the leaders have some "minor pected to issue their reactions until 

i rnrmiP~rn~xxo:m~~ £ 
an Arab news agency said most of reservations" about the proposals. after the summmit, during which the them are tentatively backing Presi­But it said they are expected to Palestine Liberation Organization is * * dent Reagan's recent Middle East form a delegation "to undertake expected to make its position *~ Reporters. news editors.) * ~ proposals. consultations in the United States known. 
and Europe about the American plan The summit is a resumption of a 
i copy editors. and day editorr !
and about pushing the case for­meeting last November that was
Accident 
ward." halted because of a boycott by Official Moroccan sources told Syrian President Hafez Assad, and * * • • The Associated Press that the Arabs the Moroccan officials claimed his 


! Seminars every ! 
are especially concerned about Is­presence indicated the most power­


tnJures 
rael's decision Sunday approving ful of the Arab hard-liners is at least new settlements in the occupied willing to discuss a possible peace 
i ·Tuesday night !


actresses 
West Bank and Gaza Strip -despite move. Reagan's call for a freeze on new Official Moroccan sources said 
* \Jm~'IT7 * 
settlements there. King Hassan conferred individually
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -Janet * ~ * Gaynor, the first actress ever to win 
The officials, who asked not to be Sunday and yesterday with all the 
* * 
an Oscar, clung to life yesterday af­named, said Reagan's ability to per­Arab heads of state here, including : \SJ&\/L~CDCID/LIL~~ : 
suade the Israeli leaders to back Assad, Fahd, Jordan's King Hussein,
ter a car crash that killed one person away from this decision would test Sudan's President Gaafar Mohamed
and seriously injured two others, * * 
whether he can deliver on the rest of Nimeiri, Somalia's President Siadincluding Broadway star Mary Mar­
; 6:30-7:15 i
his plan, which has been rejected Barre, and Yasser Arafat.
tin. outright by Israel's Cabinet. The PLO chiefflew in from Tunis
Nursing · supervisor Marilyn ·Of the Arab nations, only Egypt yesterday, and was embraced at the ! In 'front o'f Uttle Theater i
Potash said the 75-year-old Gaynor was on life-support equipment in has made an official comment on airport by Hassan and other Arab the intensive care unit at San Fran­Reagan's proposal last week for a leaders. * * 
Palestinian-run government on the The summit is the first toplevelcisco General Hospiw. * * 
West Bank and Gaza Strip in close as­Arab meeting since Israel invaded
"Her prognosis is ;ery guarded," : _First meeting tonight! : 
sociation with Jordan, saying it had Lebanon on June 6. Libya is the onlysaid Dr. Frank Lewis, chief of emer­gency services at the hospital after "positive points." Egyptians have Arab nation boycotting the con­
:**********~**************~~~****!
been ostracized by their fellow ference.
he performed four hours of surgery 
on Gaynor. 
The surgery was needed to repair 
a perforated bladder and to stop 
bleeding near Gaynor's right kidney, 
said Lewis. She also suffered 11 
fractured ribs, a broken collar bone 
and multiple pelvic fractures. 
"She had multiple trauma and has 
needed nine pints ofblood and she's 
likely to need more," Lewis said. "In 
a lady her age, the magnitude of her 
injuries is very critical. ' 
Gaynor won the Academy Award 
as best actress in 1928, the first year 
the awards were given, for her role 
as a waif in "Seventh Heaven," and 
made numerous films before she 
retired at the height of her career in 
1939. 
She, her husband, award-winning producer Paul Gregory, 62, Martin, and Martin's manager, Ben Washer, were going to a Chinatown res­taurant Sunday night when their taxi was hit broadside by a van at the cor­ner of California and Franklin streets. 
Washer, 76, Martin's long-time business associate and friend, was killed in the crash that sent the mangled cab sideways across California Street into a tree. 
Van driver Robert Cato, 36, ofSan Francisco was taken to the hospital for treatment of minor injuries. When released, he was handcuffed taken to city jail, where he was charged with vehicular manslaughter, felony reckless driving, speeding, felony drunken driving, and running a red light. He was held in lieu of $3,500 bail. 
Martin, 68, famous for her role as 
Nellie Forbush in the Broadway 
musical "South Pacific" and as Peter 
Pan on Broadway and television, was 
in serious condition with a 
punctured right lung, two fractured 
right ribs, two pelvic fractures and a 
bruised kidney, said Potash. 
Better grades require an investment. In time. HP-41C Handheld Computer-$250.00*
Gregory was in fair condition with 
In work. And in the tools you use. Hewlett-Packard

broken legs and fractured ribs, Lewis 
HP-41CV Handheld Computer with SX Memoryoffers a range of such tools: calculators and hand­
said. 
of HP-41C-$325.00*
held computers with a unique logic system that

Larry Hagman, Martin's son who 
requires less time to get a more reliable answer. NEW. HP-lSC Advanced Programmable Scientific
plays J.R. Ewing on television's 
Invest in one that matches your needs. And watch with Matrix Functions-$135.00*
"Dallas," arrived at the hospital early 
your investment pay off.

yesterday. 
NEW l1P-16C Programmable Calculator forFor the HP dealer nearest you, call lOLLFREE
Gaynor and Martin live in Palm 
800-547-3400. In Oregon, Alaska andHawaii ~~~lect5~nics and Computer Science-
Springs, but Martin also hOi$ a borne 
call503-758-1010. For additional ptodiiet informa­. :.;•
in San Francisco which she uses · 
tion write Hewlett-Packard, Dept 83, Corvallis,

when taping "Over Easy," a Public 
OR 97330. ··~ 

Broadcasting Service talk show for 
the elderly ofwhich she is a co-host. 
I 
HP-UC Advanced Programmable Scientific­Gregory had been in S?rt Francisco 

$100.00* 

for a taping session. 
HP-UC Advanced Financial Programmable with When Performance Must Be Measured By
Lewis said she will b· :1ospitalized 
Special Functions-$150.00* Results. 3912211
at least two weeks. Gregory was in fair condition with 
broken legs and broken ribs, and 
probably will be released from the 
~1,.... HEWLETT 
hospital in a week, Lewis said. 
_. J gw Gregory and Martin were "stable, 
a!~ PACKARD awake and doing well," Lewis said. ~~---••••••iiii::~•-•••••••••••••liiii~~-----•••llllllli••••••••••••••••••~.. 

I· 
Business.& Technology Tuesday, September 7, 1982-page 6 
~· 
,.I 
t 
I I 
I 



Wall Street Update 


Fund explores stock market
The StOCk market was closed on Monday in obser­
vance of the Labor Day holiday. Stock trading will resume Tuesday. 
By ALEX SZILVAS
-The Observer 
B& TEditor 

How would you like $30,000 at your fingertips to invest as you
~-~Economic Update ~ · 
please? Sounds like something you 
may have to wait a few years to think 
about, right? Well, thanks to the Col­
Economic leaders from 146 nations grappled on 
lege of Business Administration Ad­
Monday with the problem Q.f how to avert an international lending 
visory Council Investment Fund
crisis. At the meeting ofthe International Monetary Fund in Toronto, 
(CBA-ACIF), the opportunity is just
Canadian Prime ,\1inister Pierre Elliott Trudeau labeled current con­
around the corner.

ditions as the worst since World War II. -AI' 


• 
• 
Beginning sometime in mid­September, students participating in the Fund's activities will begin analyzing investment possibilities. This will initiate the long process of determining which securities will comprise the Fund's portfolio for the coming year. 
The CBA-ACIF originated with an 
anonymous donation of $10,000 by 
a member ofthe College of Business 
Administration Advisory Council for 
the purpose of permitting students 
to participate in the "market" as a 
practkal supplement to their educa­
tion in the classroom. The donor felt 
that students could this way enrich 
their formal education without 
taking any personal risk. 
According to the Fund's moderator, Professor Paul Conway, the ACIF's portfolio has outper­formed the Dow jones Industrial Average in each year of the Fund's existence. It has achieved perfor­mances as outstanding as a 46.3/ 
value increase in 1981. The value of the Fund has swollen to around 
$.30,000 as oflate August. 
If you are wondering how the Fund is managed, it works like this. The Fund's co-chairmen (chosen last spring) meet with Conway and outline the investment criteria to be followed this year. This involves determining what percentage of the Fund's sources will be allocated to growth, income, and speculative issues. The objectives for the com­ing year are also decided--namely which areas have the most potential and deserve exploration. Then at an organizational meeting which will be held in a few weeks, student par­ticipants will be organized into research teams of five members. Each participant will be given a stock or stocks to examine. These stocks will either be part of the cur­
rent investment portfolio or issues 
which merit purchase considera­
tion. 
Participants will be given several weeks to complete their report( s) on the issue(s) assigned to them. These reports will then be turned over to the research team leaders who will discuss them with the co­chairmen at a meeting of the ex­ecutive committee. This group will then propose specific revisions in the Fund's portfolio. 
But don't think that the tina! deci­sion has been made here. One final meeting is held to discuss the proposed revisions and is open to all participants. So ifyou think you have a worthy stock which has·not been recommended by the executive committee, you still have a tina! chance to voice your opinion. The tina! investment decisions are made at this meeting and are then carried out subject to the moderator's ap­proval. 
Conway stresses that the deci­sions are up to the students. As long as they can justify their moves, the students are allowed to determine the Fund's portfolio. Nearly the entire Fund is invested in stocks, but some bonds and money market cer­tificates are also held. 
"We want to emphasize," Conway notes, "that participation in the Fund is open to all Notre Dame stu­dents. You don't need to be a busi­ness major or have much knowledge about investments, just a· little inter­est and desire." 
So ifyou want to help decide how $.30,000 will be invested this fall, till out a CBA-ACIF form by Friday, Sep­tember 17, and return it to Room 244 Hayes-Healy. After all, when is the next time you will be able to in­vest that kind of money--and with­out personal liability! 

Chemical warfare 

research continues 
By TIM AHERN 
AssociatedPress Writer 
The United States officially renounced biological warfare in 1969. But in Frederick, Maryland, in a small corner of the military base where the American germ weapon effort was located, Army scientists are still involved in "medical defensive BW research." 
With little public attention, the researchers are trying to discover vaccines or antidotes to any germ weapons that might be used against American troops. 
The effort is based in a two-story Army lab in a corner of Fort Detrick, the sprawling base that was once the headquarters of U.S. chemical and biological warfare etiorts. 
Officials are sensitive about describing their work, which has continued since 1969 when Presi­dent Nixon renounced American use of biological weapons and or­dered the destruction of existing arms. But he said that a defensive ef. fort would continue, to guard against possible germ attacks by an enemy. 
"What we're doing is uniquely medical. We're involved in medical defensive research," said Col. Richard Barquist, the doctor who heads the Army Medical Institute of Infectious Diseases. 
"We're just trying to use the tools provided by modern biology to come up with better vaccines," he explained. "We'd like to see if we can use to our advantage the tech­nological wave sweeping through biomedical research." 


r-------------------------•
NOTREDAME I 
TAE KWON DO I KARATE I 
I 

--Professionallnstruction I --Physical Fitness --Self Defense 
Contact Tom Schreck at 1104
1
1or stop by Activities Ni~ht . I 
r __,rI Classes beJ,'!in ~gon ..--/ ­


---~~--------------------~~ 
Tuesday, September 7, 1982-page 7 



Editorials 
Choosing between the-roads tO happi!),~"~!... "'""""'"";" 
Already the pains of school have happiness is like a lifetime without made their debut. You hear sighs orange juice. and moans. Students trudge about campus till Friday afternoon when Anne Marie Jehle 
happy hours serve as attitude adjust­
ment. There's a moment ofpeace af-A Word Or TWO ter you tuck the books away and before you begin hard-core party­
ing. A reverst" adjustment takes Okay, so you'enjby a drink now-place in the brunch line at 12:45 on and then, but is that drink your tick-Sunday. This leaves us a mere day et to get "away from it all"? Is it all and a half of uninterrupted bliss per that bad? It is! You picked it, you week. It falls considerably short of masochist. You should integrate the U.S. recommended weekly al-your studies with your life instead of lowance for happiness. leaving them in the classroom. 
We cannot neglect such a You're not going to leave your de­deficiency. Act on it now' Aware-gree there, are you? Choose a major ness ofvitamins, for instance, has led that matches your ambitions, and us to bt"tter health standards, more run with the whim, instead ofagainst nutritious dining hall menus, and it. Curriculums can tend to be subsequently, a longer life expec-demanding, however, true convic­tancy. But add some quality to that tions will weather the storm. quantity! Remember, a day without The question remains as to 
D-6, d-sgusting 
A weary travelq winces as he losing all four hubcaps! The ultimate endures yet another ravine in the anticipation of how many dents the rugged and rocky terrain. Only a D-6 rocks have inflicted on your car small distance away, a young woman each time you take it out! And then trudges through a seemingly endless there's the greatest feat of all ­
making it up the D-6 mountain in apath ofsnow to reach the warmth of snowstorm! · shelter. Does this sound like Jack The smaller size of D-6 is theLondon's "To Build a Fire"? or like a reason that its use is limited to thetravelogue for a Siberian getaway residents of only three dorms. Ourvacation? Wrong on both counts. 
friends in Morrissey, Howard, Badin,This, my friends, is student parking Walsh, Sorin, Pangborn, Fisher, Dil­at Notre Dame. 
lon, and Alumni must trudge past the stadium to D-2. Of course, D-6 is expandable. I
Diane Dirkers 
believe the two lakes we now have on campus are sufficient. Therefore,
Campus Quips 

the swampland that surrounds D-6 could be used to provide at least 
My freshman year, a friend ofmine three times as much parking area from Carroll Hall became one of the than presently exists which few, the proud, the student car would take care ofnearly all ofSouth 
owners. Little did he know that he Quad. would be assigned to lot D-I, across The implications of this proposal, 
juniper Road. Twenty minutes of however, will eliminate the innate brisk walking got him in the driver's charm of D-6. Apaved parking lot? seat. Unless he were planning on a Why; who would ever want that? luncheon in Chicago, the endeavor Certainly not we D-6 diehards who was virtually worthless. Within a have come to love the gravel! And I week, his stereo was stolen out ofhis must say that Notre Dame has tried car, at which point benevolent to make things pleasant for us. Just security officials gave him the honor last semester, we all moved our cars of parking on D-6. off the lots so N.D. Maintenance D-6. Everyone hates it, and yet I could snow plow and, best of all, know of a gentleman in Morrissey rearrange our precious rocks! The 
your creative interests? You shalle either be forever inspired, or J<>· doomed to drudgery. some students bridge this gap. They live for today and tomorrow, while those in train­ing go through the motions to some-
day savor their salary. 
Others stuff their brains with knowledge now, to starve on the street later. Bag the budget, but don't sell your soul, for only you can define happiness. 
Doing time to punch on a clock is a terminal sentence. You're freed not by the bell, but by harnessing the heart. Walk to your own beat and you'll set the pace for others. 
·'--So next time you go to a happy ~ hour, bring your own... 

Anne Marie Jehle is an American 
whether it's an inspired dedication, Choose yourself: pain or pleasure? Studies major from Williamsville, 
or a ball and chain conviction. Do you choose a "saleable" field New York. 


P.O. Box Q
-· -­

Cartoon, article distort holocaust 
DearEditors, 

I must express both historical and moral objections 
to the cartoon by Dennis Ryan and to the article by 
Randy Fahs on the Observer's editorial page of last 
Thursday, September 2nd. Ryan's cartoon depicts 
Menachem Begin threatening to punch a small figure 
labelled Beirut. The shadow cast shows a Nazi 
stormtrooper poised to strike a Jew. Fahs' article, less 
bluntly, views Israel's attack on Beirut and the Pales­
tinianss as comparable to the Nazi's killing oftheJews. 
The historical flaw in Ryan's and Fahs' Israeli/Nazi comparison lies in their view of the Jewish holocaust. As an act of genocide, it is unparalleled in extent and purpose. If one lists the great human slaughters, the holocaust stands pre-eminent with that stark figure, six million; the number alone should deter casual analogies. Moreover, the Jews died in 1933-1945 not in a struggle over territory, but in a Nazi attempt to "purify" Europe racially. 
As much as the holocaust is a unique historical event, it is also a unique moral symbol. For the twen­tieth century, it stands as the most potent image of man's capacity ofevil and as the strongest call for him to do better. Possessed ofsuch powerful meaning, the holocaust cannot and should not fail to have daily mention. Unfortunately, politicians and writers often invoke the holocaust to bolster otherwise weak argu­ments. Menachem Begin, who should know better, is guiltier of such exploitation than are Ryan and Fahs whose improper use of the holocaust's memory may be ascribed to youthful carelessness. 
The point of this letter is not to argue for or against Israel and its actions but to caution against bad histori­cal comparisons, particularly when they distort the historical fact and moral symbolism ofan event as im­portant as the holocaust. 
Owen P. Lippert Graduate Student, History 

See New Jersey.first 
"Hi, I'm fromJoisy; you fromjoisy?" anything is better than bPing in NewJersey. 
"Yeah, I'm fromjoisy. What exit do you live offof?" Others could be relocated in the Carolinas, Georgia, "I live off exit 11 on the turnpike, and you?" and Florida. Whenever they become homesick, theJer­"I'm off Exit 140 on the parkway." sians could take deep, refreshing breaths of the sulfur­"Is that near Newark?" rich swamp air and reminisce about their homestate oil "No way, I wouldn't live near the armpit of America, refineries. 
that registered his car under a imagi­snow job wasn't at all effective, but although factory row is only two blocks away." Nevada would be a nice state to live in. The deserts nary female name to have the the repositioning of the gravel was must be •exactly like the beaches of the Jersey shore, privilege of parking there. (F. B. I. certainly a welcome change ofpace. except for the absence ofoil spills in an already polluted impersonators on the N. D. security Our endowment fund has Eleanor Gallo ocean. So what ifNevada does not border an ocean; any staff discovered that appalling scan­provided the campus with a new persons who spent their entire lives near the water dal, by the way, and slapped the chemistry building, lavish renova­Tongue In Cheek should be able to easily give it up. Anyone from the 
near-felon with a hefty fine.) 
tions of the older dorms, a new Atlantic City area would move to Las Vegas and pretend D-6 is by far the only lot that is at senior bar, and a wonderful smoke 
Unsuspecting persons who hear this conversation or he is still home. all convenient for students on South 
alarm/fire protection system. If only a similar one usually come to a sudden realization that If some of the hard-nosed New Jersians absolutelyQuad, hut only the lucky residents of 
a few dollars might be directed the people talking are from the misfit state, NewJersey could not stand to be away from the ocean, they could Lyons, Carroll, and Holy Cross are 
toward saving the undersides ofour -the place where people's accents are harsh because make a pilgrimage to California and live on the West given the pleasure of parking there. 
cars from the ravages of D-6. they inhalate pollutants from the innumerous factories, Coast. Maybe there is a slight chance that California will What pleasure, you ask? The thrill 
the state that is completely paved and has an uncanny slide into the Pacific Ocean, but what is wrong with of "!-wheeling' The challenge of 
Diane Dirkers is a junior finance resemblance to a filthy, crumbling metropolis. taking a risk as long as it gets one away from the East crossing "D-6 canyon" without majorfrom Saint Louis, Missouri. Should the opportunity ever arise to live there, do Coast? 

not even consider the idea. A short excursion through New Jersians could also slip quietly into Pennsylva­Trenton or Newark, or a visit to Rahway State Prison is nia. The only foreseen problem is they might unwitting­enough to make a person wonder how he ever dreamed ly slip back since many eastern Pennsylvanians vacation up such an insane thought. Even New Jersey residents on the Jersey shore. Of course, the New Jersian could cannot bear to stay in their own state, as is exhibited by travel farther west to Pittsburgh, but that is the same as the large population of New Jersey students attending living in New jersey, so why bother1 this university. They really cannot be blamed for being the unfortunate ones to be born in NewJersey. Maybe NewJersey is not such a bad state to live in. All 
Most states are probably sympathetic to the plight of other places considered seem to have a little part ofthis the New Jersey residents and would not mind offering state in them. New Jersians should be proud that the refuge to those wise enough to get out. New York City other states can only be a little bit like theirs. They could add quite a few to its population ofeight million should be proud they are from NewJersey without anyone noticing. Even with New York City's Eleanor Gallo is a biology major from Clark, New crime rate and unemployment, NewJersians know that jersey. 

Editorial Board J?epartment Managers 
·u,f 0/ncrrcr ~~ .1n Independent ncw'f'·lrcr publ"hcd by the ,tudenh of the 
I t111ur 111 <liwf \Ill h.il'l "'>Ilk flliS/II<'SS lftl/1<1,~<'1' rom .\!l'ilo
l !r111er,ity of No: rc D.1me du l.J< .1nd S.unt M.try's College. It doe' Pot ntH'''·mly 
lltlll<i,~lll.~ 1-tlllur H1 .111 \ <T lkrknl<ll'' ( WI/ru/1('/' 
l·.nt "' hul1

rdlett the poll< w' of the .Idrnllll\tr.ltlon of c1thcr institution. The news 1' report 
l.\'<'llilll'<' \<'II'S f.'tfJilll' t-..c ll1 I liili \d t ·erlt:·;III,f.!. .\t'"!,t,L:"r ( hn' ll\\ t·n
cd J<; .ll(Ur.ttely and .t<; ohlt\t11dy ,I, po"Ihlc Fd1toriJis reprcst·nt the op1niun of 
SJ!C Executic•e Editor \l.if)..:.IH'I It '"'IIH IC l'n,dll<"flrol \ltiiiO,l!,('r \l.iur,, \lurpl11
.1 m.qonty of the Fd1tun.d llo.Ir<l. ( o>~Hlll'nt.trlc'. opinions .1nd letters arc the \'ICWs 
\f>url.' l.tlllur < iln«n·dlt·, ( lrt uf,lltun .\ltlllrl,l!.t'r Ha\ lnglin
of thtH author,. ( olumn '1'-hl' 1' .tl.lli.Ihk to all !llcmhcr'> of the <Of1Hnur11ty, JnJ 
I dJ/un,Ji., I tlllul l'.nli \I«""" \ J'Sit'llh \ltllltl_l!.t'r l!flJlT { ),tkll I 
the f rce expe,sion of v.Hyuig Oj'Inwns on tampu>, through letters, I> en~oungeJ. 
I <'tilllrn 1-t/J/ur I .If! Bn '" n 1'/lu/ll 1-tlllur IL!tlld 1\lo.IIIl
P.O.Bnx Q. Nntrt: Dame, IN -t6SS6 (21')) 259-';505 
Tuesday, September 7, 1982 -page 8
Sports Brie s 
::~B~}:';ln;:e~O;b~s:e:r~v~e~r!a:n:d;;Th;=e:A:s:s:o:c:i(:lt:e:d~P;r:e:s:s~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
A fall program for novice to first-year boxers, sponsored by the Notre Dame Boxing Club, will be held beginhing with the organizational meeting today at 4:30 p.m. in the boxing room of the ACC. The program, consisting ofworkouts and learning sessions, is designed to initiate young athletes to the sport ofboxing, will last six weeks and will culminate in a novice tournament the week before fall break. Interested students may sign up by attending the first workout. -The Observer 
The Non-Varsity Athletic office has announced the first set of registration deadlines for the early fall's interhall sports. All interested students can sign up to participate in the following sports: interhall tennis (men's and women's singles, mixed doubles); grad-faculty tennis (same); 16-inch softball; and co-ree softball. Deadline for these sign-ups is today. Interhall football sig­nups also will take place this week, but will be conducted within the individual dormitories. For more information, contact your dorm's 
athletic commissioner or call the new 24-hour NVA phone line at 239-5100.-The Observer 
Off-campus studentsinterested in coaching any o­c team~ this fall are asked to contact Mick DePaolo, the off-campus athletic commissioner, at 234-5556 for information regarding fees, insurance, deadlines, etc. -The Observer 
The off-campus soccer teamwill hold a man­datory organizational meeting tonight at 7 in the first floor LaFortune lobby. All those interested in playing this fall should at­tend the meeting. Jamie Roberts (277-0595) can answer your ques­tions. -The Observer 
Gerry Faust will be the guest tomorrow at 8 p.m. as the Fellowship of Christian Athletes renews its discussion series. The meeting will be held in the Memorial Library Lounge. FCA promtes Christian fellowship among athletes, coaches and spectators in the hope that this will be shared with the larger community. All are invited. -The Observer 
Swimmers interested in the Notre Dame varsity swim­ming teams should report for an organizational meeting tomorrow in room 218 of the Rockne Memorial. Upper-class males should report at 4 p.m.; upper-class females will meet at 4:30p.m.; all fresh­men at 5 p.m. Contact Coach Dennis Stark (239-7042) for more information. -The Observer 
Notre Dame women interested in joining the Women's Cross Country Club should contact Rose Marie Luking at 6896. -The Observer 
ND-SMCWomen'sGolfclubwillholdanorganiza­tional meeting tomorrow at 7 p.m. in Lyons chapel. Contact Mary Beth Heslin at 1277 for more information. -The Observer 
The Martial Arts Association of Notre Dame will hold an organizational meeting on Thursday at 6:45 p.m. in room 219 of the Rockne Memorial. Any students, faculty or staff, beginning or advanced in any martial art, are invited to attend, especially those interested in teaching. For further information, contactjerry (8241) or Mark ( 7683 ). -The Observer 
Major League Standiflgs 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

East  
W  L  Pet.  GB  
St. Louis  77  59  .566  
Philadelphia  76  61  .555  1.5  
Montreal  73  64  533  4.5  
Pittsburgh  73  64  .533  4.5  
Ch1cago  61  77  442  17  
New York  53  B2  .393  23.5  
West  
Atlanta  76  61  555  
Los Angeles  76  62  551  .5  
San Diego  72  66  522  4.5  
San Francisco  70  67  .511  6  
Houston  63  74  460  13  
Cincinnati  52  B5  .3BO  24  

Yesterday's RMulta Chicago 4, Philadelphia 3 Pittsburgh 6, New York 1 
St. Louis 1, Montreal 0 Los Angeles 7, Cincinnati 2 San Francisco 8, Atlanta 2 
San Diego 4, Houston 2 Today'a Gamaa 

Philadelphia (Christenson 8-9) at Chicago (Ripley 4­7) New York (Zachry 6-6) at Pittsburgh (Sarmiento 6-3), 
n Los Angeles (Wright 2-1) at Cincinnati (Harris 2-4), n 
San Francisco (Hammaker 9-7) at Atlanta (Camp 11­7), n Montreal (Lerch 1-0) at St. Louis (Mura 11-9), n San Diego (Eichelberger 7-11) at Houston (DiPino o­
0), n 
Wednesday's Gamaa Philadelphia at Chicago New York at Pittsburgh San Diego at Cincinnati Los Angeles at Atlanta San Francisco at Houston Montreal at St. Louis 
AMERICAN LEAGUE Pet. GB 

'  East  
W  L  
Milwaukee  B1  56  
Baltimore  77  58  
Boston  77  59  
Detroit  70  65  
New York  69  66  
Cleveland  64  70  
Toronto  63  75  
Wast  
Kansas City  78  59  
California  77  60  
Chicago  72  64  
Seattle  64  72  
Oakland  59  79  
Texas  55  B2  
Minnesota  48  B9  

.591 

.570 3 .566 3.5 .519 10 .511 11 .47B 15.5 .457 18.5 
.569 .562 1 .529 5.5 .471 13.5 .42B 19.5 .401 23 .350 30 
Yesterday's Results Baltimore B. New York 2 Boston 10, Cleveland 3 
Detroit 6, Milwaukee 5, 10 inn. Califorma B. Chicago 6 Toronto 3, Oakland 1 Texas 4-11, Minnesota 3-7 Seattle 6, Kansas City 2 
Today'a Gamaa 

Boston (Denman 2-1) at Cleveland (Sorensen 10-11), n Baltimore (Flanagan 12-10) at New York (Morgan 6­B), n Minnesota (O'Connor 6-6) at Texas (Comer 1-5), n DetrOit (Petry 14-7) at Milwaukee (Sutton 0-1 ), n Chicago (Burns 13-5) at California (John 11-10), n Toronto (Clancy 11-13) at Oakland (McCatty 6-3), n Kansas City (Splittortt 9-B) at Seattle (Moore 6-1 0), n 
Wednesday's Gamae Toronto at Oakland Boston at Cleveland Baltimore at New York Minnesota at Texas Detroit at Milwaukee 
Chicago at California Kansas City at Seattle 

• • .Summary 
continuedfrom page 9 
Cards 1 , Expos 0 

ST. LOUIS (AP) -Joaquin An­dujar handcuffed Montreal on five hits and pinch-hitter George Hendrick broke up a scoreless tie with a two-out. nimh-inning single last night to lift St. Louis to a 1-0 tri­umph over the Montreal Expos that stretched the Cardinals' lead in the National League East to 1 1/2 games. 
Hendrick's game-winning single, a bouncer up the middle that scored Ken Oberkfell from second base, came off reliever Woody Fryman, who came on for Expos starter Bill Gullickson, 1 0-1 1. 
Andujar, 11-10, went the distance, yielding only three hits after the second inning. He walked one and struck out four. 
Gullickson, who held St. Louis to four hits through eight innings, retired Tommy Herr on a pop foul to start the ninth. Oberkfell then singled to right but Gullickson got Lonnie Smith to fly out. Keith Her­nandez singled, with Oberkfell stop­ping at second to set up Hendrick's clean single up the middle. 
Cubs4, Phils 3 

CHICAGO (AP)-Bill Buckner's double keyed a three-run fifth inning yesterday and the Chicago Cubs hung for a 4-3 victory to maintin their home jinx over the Philadel­phia Phillies. 
The triumph was the seventh straight over Phillies in Wrigley Field this season and ended a three­game Phillies winning streak. 
Pirates 6, Mets 1 

PITTSBURGH (AP)-Tony Pena lined a three-run homer in the sixth inning to cap a four-run Pittsburgh rally as the Pirates celebrated Willie Stargell Day with a 6-1 victory over the New York Mets yesterday. 
Stargell pinch-hit in the eighth and was greeted with a two-minute standing ovation by the crowd of 38,052. He then lined a single to center and was replaced by pinch­runner Rafael Belliard. 
Tigers 6, Brewers 5 

MILWAUKEE (AP) Tom Brookens hit a home run in the 1Oth inning to push the Detroit Tigers to a 6-5 win over the Milwaukee Brewers yesterday. 
Milt Wilcox, 10-7, yielded ten hits before giving way to Pat Underwood and Aurelio Lopez in the tenth. 
Brookens homered off Doc Medich, 10-12, who had no-hit the Tigers through the first six innings. 
The Brewers, who blew a sixth­inning 3-0 lead, trailed 5-3 going in­to the eighth when they tied the score on Ben Oglivie's two-out homer, his 27th, after Cecil Cooper's single. 
Orioles 8, Yankees 2 

NEW YORK (AP) Scott 
McGregor and Sammy Stewart 
combined on a five-hitter and the 
Baltimore Orioles set an American 
League record for pinch-hit homers 
as they extended their longest win­
ning streak of the season to nine 
games with a 8-2 victory over the 
New York Yankees yesterday. 

Lenn Sakata drove in three runs 
for Baltimore, and the Orioles made 
it a romp in the eighth with four 
runs, capped by Benny Ayala's fifth 
homer of the sesson, a two-run shot, 
and the 11th this year by a Baltimore 
pinch hitter. 
Mariners 6, Royals 2 

SEATTLE (AP) -Floyd Bannister and Ed Vande Berg combined on a three-hitter, Todd Cruz homered and Bruce Bochte drove in a pair of runs as the Seattle Mariners defeated Kansas City 6-2 yesterday, sending the Royals to their third straight loss. 
Angels 8, Sox 6 

ANAHEIM, Calif (AP) -Juan Beniquez' two-run single and Bob Boone's run-scoring hit keyed a four-run, eighth-inning rally as the California Angels came from behind to defeat the Chicago White Sox, 8­6, yesterday. 
The Observer will accept classtfteds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4 30 p.m. However. classtfieds to appear 1n the next 1ssue must be recetved by 3 p.m. the bustness day pnor to 1nser110n All classifieds must be prepaid. 
either in person or through the mail. 
Classifieds 
MOLARITY UVES/1

IS YOUR HAIR GETTING IN THE WAY OF YOUR STUDIES?? CALL MICHOLE 
NOTICES 

~W_A_N_TE_D~~ '~--TIC_K_ET_S~' '~PE_RS_O_N_A_LS~ 
FOR A HAIRCUT TODAY! ONLY $4 FOR ITS SO NICE TO BE BACK -THE BIRDS SENIOR ADVISORY COUNCIL GUYS AND $6 FOR GIRLS BEST TO ARE SINGING, THE BOOKS AREMEETING Tuesday, 6:00, 2nd Fl. La CALL AFTER 3 AT 7B50 WAITING, SECURITY IS OUT ANDFortune BELIEVE IT OR NOTI!I I'm a senior and SENIOR ADVISORY COUNCIL 
ABOUT, AND THE SHEEP ARE WELCOME ALL, FORM CILA! Interested MARKETING REP needed to sell SKI & my father has never seen a Notre Dame MEETING Tuesday, 6:00, 2nd Fl. La 
OBLIVIOUS. BA BA BA 1532IMPROVE YOUR GRADES! Research 

in comunity service? We're a group of BEACH TRIPS. Earn cash and free vaca· football game. Help make a dream come Fortune Mandatory tor all Reps. catalog-306 pages-10,278 topics-Rush vivacious people who care about others. !ions. You must be dynamic & outgoing. true. Sell me your GA or student tickAits to Going to$1.00 to Box 25097C. Los Angeles, See our booth at SMC ACTIVITIES CALL 312-871-1070 or write SUN & SKI theN. D./Perdue game. G~lt Livle . ,.,_,;; .,,.; Like last night's tacos_. MOLARITY is back 
TORONTO 90025.. (213) 477-8226. "; :._:,~\1,~;-::.:j.-' I\IIGH,T!"tof1lght at Angela. ADVENTURES, 2256 N. Clark St., this weekend? need ride.will help with 
Chicago,IL S0614. Neeoeo:··aNe-·srilp~ijr .. MIGii·*;~·:''-~o~at:~~~~~ ~~~ :::g~a~~at~o~~~~ 
usual. call 277-3002 TICKET. NAME YOUR· P;RICEI CA~l-pages of The Observer forever Well, you ..............:.n..~ ...o....... · · .....; • .-:!.I.::o;::.~.;-'' Siij)!.10-11 Fun overnighter. Pickup ap-Ride to U. of ILLINOIS (Champaign) tor CLAU01AAT4559. ·.:,,,:'i'l-',i,;-f,:':(< ''';_'<;~•: -wrongll 'j, 
BEl:tevii.ii''SRN'ot ........... , ..,,,:::•:: . .;,,~,~;·€iii'·'''·oRIENTATioN ·· wEei<'Ei.ii>, 
A President of a Catholic University who AEROBlCS IS BACK I For -·.student$ plica!l9ns at Activities Night. Questions to three, weekend of Sept. 10. Will share 
looks like Foster Brooks? StiAVE, 01' classes btigin Wed, Sept 8 liof!l 4:00· be answered at the General Meeting usual. Mary 8148 ~~~i~d: ii;f~;~·itj;;~'ih~~lt;~~~~~~dtJ?::; h MOLARITY UftSil Dude! 

4:30. For facully & staff classes start Wed..· S8pt.8 at 6pm. EVERYONE ···············•'••'·•· puidue home football games. Will pay bux· Molarity: No Outlet contains even more 
Thurs. Sept 9 from 5:15-5:45 & meet Tu, WELCOME. deluxe! call matt 277·4573. insipid cartoons than ever before tor the Fun things not to do when in a cast: ..............,..........,:.......:............. same incredibly outrageous price of
Th. If interested meet at ACC Concourse r-----------_--_..._..__.....____-_.....,· !.Write
.._..._.....__ I

on first class day _ HELPI My parents have moved and won't $2.95. Brought to you by Buy the Book 
2. Tie your shoes (thank goodness for tell me the forwarding address until I can Press, for all your pressing needs. 
FOR SALE 

Vans) SMC ACTIVITIES NIGHT 3. Use the "facilities" 
come up with 2 Miami GA's and 1 Miami 
_______________ student ticket. If you can help me out, call 
___f_()RRENT ~I ~w-~-ck_e_d_c-ar--n-ee_d_$__-se-11-in-g-sm_a_ll_tr~ig-
SMC ACTIVITIES NIGHT 4. Dial a phone Get involved! L 5. Sleep
Tim at xB631. Thanks! $95;10-speed bike-$45. Call277-1585 at· 
Sign up for your favorite club! ND MALES I RAVISHING RED HEAD 6. Use a terminal. TONIGHT-TONIGHT NEEDS HUBBY BY GRADUATION OR 7. Party
ter 6. Will deliver. Need one student t1cket tor Michigan. Call 
Private room, share kitchen, bath, John x3554. 
laund! 1, Uving areas with other students. FOR SALE La Petitte Lsrous~ Perfect 
8:00PM HER HOPES OF HAVING EIGHT KIDS 8. Comb your hair 
Angela Athletic Fsclnty AND FOUR YEARS OF COLLEGE WILL 9. Put in your contacts 
SMC ACTIVITIES NIGHT Walk to campus, half block to bus, 605. N. for serious French stu-dents. $20, bought I NEED 2 OR 3 MICH TIX. CALL JASPER ALL GO DOWN THE DRAIN. YOUR 10. T~~e them out againSt. Pater, 288-3942. new for $40. Nick 1434 AT 277-3276. 
THIRD ROOMATE . 


.................................................\,..... 

The Observer Tuesday, September 7, 1982-page 9 

Baseball summary 
Everyone'sgaining on the Braves 
upended the Houston Astros 4-2. Welsh, 8-5, struck out three and 

ATLANTA (AP) -jeff Leonard The Dodgers banged out 15 hits 
and Milt May knocked run-scoring against starter Mario Soto, 11-11, the singles in the eighth inning to lift the most the right-hander has allowed walked one en route to his third San Francisco Giants to a 8-2 victory this season. Soto struck out six in six 
complete game. over Atlanta yesterday, nullifying six innings, giving him a major league-Perkins doubled home Joe innings of no-hit ball by the Braves· ,teading 236. Lefebvre, who reached base with a Tommy Boggs. Rick Monday pounded his IOth single of loser Vern Ruhle, 7-12, to 
Atlanta's defeat, coupled with the home run of the season in the 
give San Diego a 1-0 lead in the 

Los Angeles Dodgers 7-2 triumph second to give the Dodgers a 1-0 second inning. Houston went in front 2-1 on Alan Ashby's lOth
over Cincinnati, cut the Braves' lead lead. After Ken Landreaux and Dusty Baker singled in the third, Garvey homer, a two-run shot in the fourth.
in the National League West to a half­
The Padres tied 2-2 on Perkins'

game. The victory was the Giants' slammed his 14th home run of the 
triple and Welsh's two-out RBI

fourth in a row, moving them within season and fifth against the Reds. 
single in the fifth, and went ahead

six games ofthe Braves. 
with two more runs in the sixth.

The Giants, held hitless and run­Larry Bowa and otherex-Phtlliesplayingfor the Cubs continue less for six innings, scored eight Padres 4, Astros 2 Garry Templeton tripled and to be royal pains to their ex-teammates as Chicago beatPhiladel­
scored on Kennedy's double, and

times on nine hits in the final three phia yesterday for the seventh straight time in Wrigley Field, 4-3. HOUSTON (AP) -Chris Welsh Rick Lancellotti's RBI single (APPhoto)
innings. 
fired a four-hitter and Broderick knocked in Kennedy for a 4-2 SanJoe Morgan led offthe eighth with Perkins and Terry Kennedy Diego lead.

a walk from Donnie Moore, 2-1, At­
delivered run-scoring doubles last
lanta's third pitcher. Morgan ad­
See SUMMARY,page 8

~ight as the San Diego Padres
vanced to second on a balk and Darrell Evans was intentionally walked before Leonard singled in Morgan, moving Evans to third. May then greeted reliever Carlos Diaz with an RBl single to right. 
Stu9ent Playets 
announce 
OPEN AUDITIONS 
FOR 

****************************** 
• "A mAN FOR AL~ SEASONSn ~ 
****'***********•••****•••.... 
nmale roles -3 female roles Tuesday, Sept. 7 & Wednesday,-Sept 8 7:oopm Washington Hall 
ALL ARE WELCOME 
Al Holland, 5-3, was the winner, while Greg Minton pitched the final two innings for his ¥-th save. 
Dodgers 7, Reds 2 
CINCINNATI (AP)-Jerry Reuss scattered five hits and Steve Garvey drove in five runs with a homer and double as the Los Angeles Dodgers overpowered the Cincinnati Reds 7­2 yesterday. 
Reuss, 14-10, had allowed only two singles until Cesar Cedeno led off the bottom of the eighth with his eighth homer of the year. The vic­tory was his third of the season over the:: Reds against one l~ss. Reuss struck out three:: and walked one in recording his sevc::nrh complete 
coQJ.pete in debate and individual speech events ~.,..~ 
travel to other colleges 
Organizational Meeting 

ursday, September 9th~' 
ASH..AUD. 7:30p.~. 
or call Brother John Doran at 239-5790 
game. 
**************~*************· **********************.
• 0~~ ' ··~-.... 
• ~~ ~~'-! • ~~0 
*

~ ~~ ~~ 
~ ~~0 ~~~ 
*

~ ~ ~0 ~ ~· ··~CJ 
* 

. 
. ~~:~ 
* 

• ~?J, ....~.~ 
* 
~~ ~~ 
* 

~~~~ ~ ~ov ~ 
. * 
~ ~~v PARTY l<'AVUUlTES '"ML ·~ 
~' BEER SPECIALS
. "~ ! Jack Daniels 
I  $699  
i  
L.........,.  ..~~~-~......~-~.~-~ ................  



,. ;-.................................................................................... ~ Mi~~~!oh
,,i,_l 
rase 24 bottles

.• 
...................................................................................... 

QLJART SPEt:lALS
•~ 
Strohs $8.49 

~ 
Miller $8.99 Lite $8.99 Pabst $8.49 

• 

r···M'iii~;--i~i~~---1 
KEGS 
M\tler $29.99 

Lite Micheloh $33.99 Budweiser $29.99 Pabst $29.99 · 
..
r'''""""""""'""'"''''"'""''''""'"'"'""""''''"' 
.. BacardiRum
..

I Coors .. .... TanquerayGin 
..

I$ 349 6pack .. 7Crown 
.. li
I$1299 case Wild Turkey86p 
i...................................................................... 

Finlandia Vodka *************** * 
...............................................................................................................................,. 
:

MOLSON SPEt:lAL1 BAR STOCKERS 1.75L I 
I 
Vodka $7.99 l Gin $8.99 !­
Beer 
Ale 


i•
Rum $9.99 lGolden Ale 
Bourbon $10.99 j * Scotch $10.99 I ** 
. ;...................................."'"'""''''''"'"'"'"'-"'"'"....................................-................ ! 
*
*
*

1"'""~"""'""'""""""" ........................................, .....................................................................1'""'"""'"'"""""'"""""''"""""""""'"''""''"'''..'""'1"""""""""'"'""""'"'"'"''"''''''"''"'"'"'"""""'"• 
1Giacohazzi Fighting Irish1 Hiunite I t:arl<? Rossi I 1 Lamhrusco Bourbon 1 Lamhrusco 1 Wines 31 1 * 

I 31 $;::lder i 7~:! ...~ 1 1 * 
l $7.99 I $2.29 l $4.99 l 1................~.~.~.:~~.~.:~.~-~.................... Illter .,......_.1 ...............................................................-....J.............................................______ !
•~ 
GUODUNTIL9/14/82· * 
~ . 
. 


. .. "" -.,.._.,.,. -.... '~-. 
'*************************************************** 

The Observer Tuesday, September 7, 1982-page 10 


Austin advances 
Tracy Austin was among those victorious in yesterday's action in the U.S. Open Tennis Cham­pionships in Flushing Meadow, N.Y. Austtn, the defending champion, easily beat No. 14 Virginia Ruzici to advance to the quarterfinals. Other win· ners includedjohn McEnroe, Ivan Lend/, Martina Navratilova and Andreajaeger. See story at right. (APPhoto) 

This calculator thinks business. 
TheTI Student Business Analyst: 
If there's one thing undergrad 
business students have always 
needed, this is it: an affordable, 
business-oriented· calculator, The Student Business Analyst. 
Its built-in business formulas let you perform complicated finance, accounting and statistical functions-the ones that usually require a lot of time and a stack of reference books, like present' and future value calculations, amortiza­tions and balloon payments. 


Top seeds advance to quarterfinals 
It all means you spend less time calculating, and more time learning. One keystroke takes the place of many. 
The calculator is just part 

NEW YORK (AP) -Defending championsjohn McEnroe and Tracy Austin moved into the quarterfinals of the U.S. Open Tennis Champion· ships yesterday along with top­seeded Martina Navratilova, while upsets eliminated ninth-seeded Van­nick Noah in the men's singles and No.6 Wendy Turnbull. 
Kim Warwick of Australia. who 
upset seventh-seeded jose Luis 
Clerc of Argentina in the opening 
round, shocked Noah 'i-7, 6-3, --'i, 
6-'• to also advance into the quarters 
on the hard courts of the :'-lational 
Tennis Center. 
Turnbull ldl to 18-year-old 
Gretchen Rush. a wild-card entrv 
who was just graduated from high 
school in .June, 6-3, -1-6, 6-2. 
In a night match, third-seeded Ivan Lend! of Czechoslovakia ex­tracted revenge for his loss in the French Open by crushing No. 11 Mats Wilander of Sweden, 6-2, 6-2, 6-2. 
McEnroe easily ousted Matt Doyle 6-3, 6-4, 6-4; Austin romped past No. 14 Virginia Ruzici ofRomania 6-l, 6­3, and Navratilova breezed by Andrea Leand 6-1, 6-2 in the warm, sunny weather. 
of the package. You also get a book that follows most business courses: the Business Analyst Guidebook. Business professors helped us write it, to help you get the most out of calculator and classroom. A powerful combination. 
Think business. ~ With the Student Business Analyst. 
TEXAS 
INSTRUMENTS 
.~: ·1q~2 Tl·>.a.-. lno;,rrumt·Rt" 
Warwick, a 50-year-old righthan­
der, has been hampered for the past 
two years with tendinitis in his right 
shoulder. Bur after dropping the first 
set, Warwick grabbed the first three 
games of the-second, then served out to even the match. 
He broke Noah in the fifth game to even the third set, then won the final three gamt:s to pull ahead. 
In the final ,~et. \1( arwick jumped out to a 4-I lead, lu~t his serve in the sixth ~arne, then hdd !'>erve to close out the match. 
A two-time winner here. Austin raced past Ruzici in -:I minutes as the Romania , ommined IS un­forced error~ to iust seven by Austin. 

,\1cEnroe dommated Doyle, a Californian who plays Davis Cup for Ireland because-of his parents' heritage. Gomg for his fourth con­secutive U,S. Open title, a feat which has not been accomplished since Bill Tilden m the early 1920s, McEnroe rook the opening set by breaking his foe in the fifth game. 
The New York let't-handeropened 
the second set by breaking Doyle, 
then lost his service for the only 
time in the match. He immediately 
broke back tor a 2-1 lead, then 
served out the set. 

He closed out the two-hour match 
by breaking Doyle in the ninth game 
at I5. 

"I don't think I played better than 
I did yesterdav (Sunday, when he 
downed Vince Van Patten 6-3, 6-2, 
6-2 ),"McEnroe said. "My concentra­
tion is going to have to he better 
from now on. You've got to get your 
mind on the match and don't let 
things distract vou." 

Rush enrolled at Trinity l'niver­
sitv in San Antonio, Texas, the week 
he-fore the Open started. She ad­
vanced to the fourth round bv 
defeating Pam f'eeguarden. I l til­
seeded Mima.lausuvec ofYugoslavia 
and South Afncan Jennifer Mundel. 

Also poMmg \'ictorics yesterday 
were fourth-seeded Andrea Jaeger, 
6-I, 6-1 over "-o. 13 Kathy Rinaldi; 
No. "' Pam Shriver, 6-~. 6-I over Ros 
fairbank ofSoUth Africa, and Bonnie 
Gadusek, Cl-tl, 6-0 over Eli!»e Burgin . 
. . . Backs 
continuedfhJ1n {JaNe I 2 
!'>ecured a stOArting position after 
gaining experience last season. 
Mosley will bat.:k up Brown on the 
weak ~ide and "has really come a 
long way." according to Coach 
Johnson. 
Notre Dame's depth in the · defensive backfield has been en­
hanced by strong play from two 
freshmen, Pat Ballage and Dave 
McGuffv. 
Ballage has been noted as a hard 
worker with good size and speed. 
"Pat is a very gifted athlete but he's 
inexperienced and he doesn't quite 
understand the coverages yet," says 
Johnson. ''But, he's come a long 
way." 
"You hate to play freshmen unless 
you're forced into it because any in­
experienced secondary man is going 
to make mistakes. This week we're 
still looking for solid second team 
people and there is a great oppor­
tunity for the younger kids to earn 
some good backup positions." 
r:-----------,1
1 Come Hear About 
ISHENANIGANSI 
I A new choral Iensemble featuring 1 song and dance 
1 I Wed., 9pm 1 Crowley Recital Hall 1 More info. in 
l.fc.r.~ey <l.!~---· 

-------------------------~~--------~------------------------------------·----------------------------~ 
~~~===================================== T0 d~x•l:.===============T=u=e=s=d=ay='=s=e=p=te=m=b=e=r=7='=I=9=8=2==p=a=g=e=I=I
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 

Campus 
•4 
and 7 p.m. -Heritage of Ireland Film Series, "Hunters, Farmers, Celts" and "Saints and Scholars", Carroll Hall, Sponsored by SMC History Department, No Charge 

•4:30 
p.m. -Biology Seminar, "Productivity­Drift Relationships Among Aquatic Invertebrates in Streams", Dr. Thomas F. Waters, Univ. of Min· nisota, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium, Sponsored by Biology Department, Free 

•7, 
9, and 11 p.m. -Film, "The Graduate", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by ND Glee Club, Sl.OO 

•s 
and 10 p.m. -Film, "39 Steps" by Alfred Hitchcock, LaFortune Ballroom, Sponsored by ND


}eb Cashin 
Student Union, S1.00 


•s to 11 p.m. -SMC Activities Night, Angela Athletic Facility 

•s p.m.-Concert, Rick Springfield, ACC, $10.50 per person 
T.V. Tonight 
6p.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 The MacNeiVLehrer Report 
6:30p.m. 16 M•A•s•H• 22 Family Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 
7p.m. 16 Father Murphy
KC. Ryan 
22 Special Movie Presentation 
"Scruples" 28 Happy Days 34 National Geographic 
7:30p.m. 28 Laverne and Shirley 
8P.M. 16 Bret Maverick 28 Three's Company 34 Mystery 
8:30p.m. 28 Too Close for Comfort 
9p.m. 16 McClains Law 28 Hart to Hart 34 Refugee Road 
10p.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 Dick Cavett Show 
10:30p.m. 16 Tonight Show 22 U.S. Open Tennis 28 ABC News Nightline 







The Daily Crossword 
.,..........,..,........,r-:-::-.......,':"""'1 14 Astringent 15 Exclude ---+--+-+---l 16 Kill 17 Driving ---+---11--+--1 no-no 20 More .,..,...-+---11--+-f--l charming 21 Bride's passage 22 Jupiter's cupbearer 23 Innuendo .,.,...+--+----l 25 Butterflies 28 Letter opener 29 Crow call 
Baldpate -epithet 4 Purple 44 Pacific
Monday's Solution 

stone 45 Beard stuff 5 Improvises 46 Pedro's 6 Confederate change 
signature 47 Subdued 7 "Deutschland 48 Highlander 
-alles" 49 Gaelic 8 Capture 50 Muskrat's 9 Macaw cousin 
10 Up and 51 Handle 
about 52 Luigi's 11 Ne -ultra loot 12 Nobleman 53 "Wilderness 13 Unit of were Para· 
force dise -" 18 Roman road 54 Stitched© 1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 
19 Stan of 56 Corn unit All Rights Reserved films 57 Extension 
51 Heart 23 Canary parts relative 55 Driving 24 Not of the no-no clergy 58 Norway 25 Thermoplas· 35 Driving city tic 
no-no 59 Onetime 26 Entertain 39 Gynt role comic, Ole 27 Dogma 40 Like a 60 "Pretty 28 Postpone 
grain maids all 29 Lockedup 41 Spool of in-" 30 Pined 
film 61 Pipe joints 31 With mols· 42 Profit 62 Cutting ture 43 -Rabbit edge 33 Word with 44 Like some 63 Eos life or 
workman· math 
ship DOWN 36 Spring46 Pillar 1 Moist heralds 47 Nasty 2 Axillary 37 Swiss river 48 Keysto 3 John Wayne 38 Like some 
rules 
34 Captioned ABC News 11p.m. 22 Alice/McCloud 28 Fantasy Island 
11:30 16 Late Night with David Letterman 
Convicted murderer escapes hospital
' 

NORWOOD, Mass. (AP)-A woman dressed in a nurse's uniform pulled out a handgun in an emergency room yesterday and freed a convicted murderer who was being treated for stab wounds. 
The inmate, 33-year-old Leroy Chasson, then jumped off his stretcher, grabbed the gun and, still wearing leg shackles, ran outside with the woman to a blue Chev­rolet, officials said. 
Security guards from Walpole State Prison fired five shots as the car sped off, but no one was believed injured. 
A police bulletin was issued for Chasson's wife, 32­year-old Kathleen, because her description fits that of the woman at the hospital and the car is registered to her, according to TrooperJoseph Didick ofthe Foxboro barracks. 
Chasson had been taken to Norwood Hospital about 9:10a.m. after being treated at the Walpole State Prison infirmary for three puncture wounds in the stomach. 
Didick said authorities were considering the pos­sibility the injuries were selt:inflicted. "They seem to be superficial wounds," he said. 


OAK BOOM CAFE 
South Dining Hall Op~n Nightly (except Sundays) Mon·'l'hurs 9:00pm ·Midnight Fri·Sat 9:00pm ·2:00am ­
---------FREE ~-------­
• 
• 
.. 

Tuesday, September 7, 1982-page 12 
SRorts 
With Herschel Walker, 'Dogs stop Clen1son 
ATHENS, Ga. (AP) -Seventh­ranked Georgia, with only limited 
• play from injured All-American Herschel Walker, used a blocked punt by Dale Carver and two field goals by Kevin Butler to defeat defending national champion Clem­son 13-7 last night in the nationally televised college football opener for both teams. 
Walker, who suffered a broken right thumb 16 days earlier in a preseason scrimmage, got in for only three plays in the first half, but never touched the ball. The 220-pound junior gained 22 yard~ on 11 carries in the second half, 10 of them com­ing on one ofhis typical rushes when he bounced off several would-be 
t~cklers. 
Clemson, No. 11 in the preseason ratings, scored first, taking a 7-0 lead ._ on Homer Jordan's 6-yard quarter­back draw midway through the opening period. The touchdown came three plays after William Per­
ry, the Tigers' 310-pound nose­guard, recovered a fumble by Georgia quarterback John Lastinger at his own 11-yard line. 
But the usually reliable Jordan, who was intercepted only nine times all last season, was picked off four times by the Bulldogs, with one of them setting up Butler's tie­breaking 39-yard field goal nine seconds before the end of the first half. 
The Bulldogs tied the score 7-7 on the third play of the second quarter. Carver blocked a punt by Clemson's Dale Hatcher at the 10-yard line and Stan Dooley outfought two Tigers at the 2 and lunged into the end zone with the ball. :. 
Butler added a 23-yard field goal at 5:40 ofthe third period and Geor­gia relied thereafter on its rugged defense as the Bulldogs ended the nation's longest winning streak at 13 games. 
Women's tennis team makes final cuts 
By DONNA WITZLEBEN 
Sports Writer 
There will be four new faces on the women's tennis team this year and six familiar ones, as final cuts for the 1982-83 squad were made Satur­day. 
With three members of last year's squad graduating and Linda Hoyer, last year's No. 2 singles player, t deciding against trying out, the 16 women at tryouts vied for ten spots on the team. 
All of the women competed in a best-out-of-three match, double elimination tournament September 1 thru 4. 
Returning for the Irish this year will be junior co-captain and All­American Pam Fishette of Liverpool, N.Y., and fellow co-captain Camille Cooper, a Shreveport, La., native. 
' ' 
I 
Pozderac sticks, but others cut 
It's been a rough summer of NFL training camps for former Notre Dame players, and yester­day the axe fell on three more former Irish stars as teams made their final cuts to reduce to the opening-day limit of 49 players. 
But there was one piece of 

good news for Irish fans. Last 
year's offensive MVP, Phil Poz­
derac, made the roster ofthe Dal­
las Cowboys. Pozderac, a 
fifth-round choice at offensive 
tackle, has been very impressive 
in the pre-season and his making 
the Cowboys comes as little 
Rejoining thetr teammates also will be sophomores Lisa LaFratta ofRich­mond, Va., Lisa Gleason from Oak Brook, Ill., Cathy Schnell of Ballwin, 
Mo., and Laura Lee of Agoura, Calif. Lee is the division II national cham­pion at number five singles and also is an All-American. 
The new members ofthe squad in­clude sophomore Louisa DeMello from Nairobi, Kenya, and three freshmen -Mary Colligan from Fort Wayne, Ind., Greta Roemer of South Bend and Sue Panther of 
Prairie Village, Kan. Panther, who is 
ranked 53rd among 18-year-olds by 
the United States Tennis Associa­
tion, is Notre Dame's first woman to 
enroll as a freshman on a tennis 
scholarship. 
"I am very pleased with the 
tryouts and the talent," said Coach 
Sharon Petro. "We have a far better 
squad than last year's." 

toplay until Georgia'sfourth game, rushed for 22 yards in limited action as the Bulldogs tri­umphed, 13-7. See summary at left for more details. (AP Photo) 
broken bandfor two weeks and wasn't supposed 
Defensive backfield 

Johnson hopes changes help 
By WILL HARE 
Sports Writer 

For a defensive unit that ranked 
16th nationally against the pass last 
season, the Notre Dame secondary 
unit is regarded not like a tiger, but 
more like a goat. 

Three of four starters in the defensive backfield return -only John Krimm is gone -from a team that yielded just 14.5 points per game. Yet, fans seem only to remem­ber the breakdowns in the secon­
surprise. 
However, three ex-Notre Dame players did not survive. Mike Kadish, a ten-year NFL veteran who played for ND in the years 1969 thru 1971, was released by the Buffalo Bills. Kadish, a nose tackle, was the Bills' player repre-sentative, which may or may not have had 
anything to do with his being let go. 
Also cut yesterday were two members of the 1973 National Championship team that beat Alabama in ~hat memorable Sugar Bowl game. Kicker Bob Thomas, whose 19-yard field goal with 
4:26 left lifted the Irish over the Crimson Tide, was waived by the Chicago Bears, with whom he spent eight seasons. 
Finally, cornerback Luther Bradley, who played at ND from 1973 to 1977 after sitting out the 1974 season because of a charge of attempted rape of a coed, was released by the Houston Oilers. Bradley, who originally was drafted by the New Orleans Saints, had tried to make the 
Oilers as a linebacker. 

dary that occurred in critical situations and resulted in bitter losses. 
Despite the impressive numbers, Irish coaches and fans alike knew changes had to be made. 
Presto. Take strong safety Dave Duerson and free safeties Joe Johnson and Rod Bone and switch their positions. Move John Mosley from offense to defense to obtain more depth at the weakside corner­back position. Install an option of the nickel defense to help out in critical situations. 
It all sounds so simple. 
Duerson, aStreet andSmith selec­tion as an honorable mention All­American, has impressed coaches with his smooth transition to free safety. 
"We're very happy with the way Duerson went from strong to free," says defensive coordinator and secondary coach Jim Johnson. "It gives us a good centerfielder back there, and it's probably his best posi­tion." 
As for the strong safety position, Joe Johnson and Rod Bone are known exclusively as hard hitters and seem fit to do more damage at the new position. 
"We feel the change will give us a little bit quicker secondary," adds Coach Johnson. "But, they will be tested right away." 
"Both Joe and Rod are such hard hitters," states strongside corner­back Stacey Toran. "Dave (Duerson) is tactful, better suited as a roving safety." 
Injuries have plagued Bone's career with the Irish andJohnson ap­parently has earned the starting spot. "Going into spring ball, Rod Bone was hurt and Joe Johnson came on like gangbusters," says Coach Johnson. "Rod will still be very involved with our nickel defense." 
The nickel defense involves the use of a fifth defensive back who is called on in passing situations. "You do it to disguise coverages and to avoid mismatches," adds Coach Johnson. 
"More teams we face seem to be opening up their offense. They may stick three wide receivers in there so you compensate by adding the 
extra  defensive  back  in  there.  
Sometimes,  we'll  go  with  six  
defensive backs also."  

Toran, a 6-4, 197-lb. junior, will once again man the strongside cor­nerback position. On the weakside corner, Chris Brown apparently has 
See BACKS, page 10 



Dave Duerson 6-3,202, Sr. 


joejohnson Stacey Toran 6-2, 185, Soph. 6-4, 197,Jr. 
---iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii-.-.,.. ·"" 





