~------~ ----~­
, , ,~era -page 3 

VOL. XVI, NO. H2 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saim mary's TUESDAY, JANUARY 26, 19H2 
Nuclear plant declares state of emergency 
ONTARIO, N.Y. (AP) -A tube The radiation release ruptured in a c.:ooling system at the described by one oftkial as no high­(;inna nudcar powc:r plant yc:stc:r­er than what could he expected in day, emitting radioactive steam into nature -was emitted in five-second the.: atmosphere and leaking putls, totaling three minutes, while thousands of gallons of water into the wind was blowing from the the reactor's c.:ontainment sump northwest at 14 mph, officials said. hdi>rc: the plant was stabilized, oft1-Snow was falling over Rochester. dals said. Oftkials said none of the workers 
Thl· reactor of the plant, l H miles at the plant were exposed to northeast of Rochester, New York's radioactivity. Non-essential person­third-largest c.:ity, was shut down nel, most of Ginna's 2'50 workers, automatically and was doused with were evacuated to an on-site raining water to keep it from overheating, center, said utility spoke1>man John said Gary Sanborn, a spokesman for Oberlies, but no resideIlls ofthe area the Nudcar Regulatory Commis­were evacuated. Local schools and a sion. large Xerox plant ncar the nuclear 
I k said the plant "appears to be plant were notitkd of the cmer­fairly stable:." gc:ncy, said Monore County Public 
Nemen M. Ten:. an NRC emer­Rdations officer Clarence Bassett. gl·ncy preparedness analyst, said About 4'5,000 people live within there was no damage to thl· reactor 10 milc:s ofthe plant. Rochester has a 
core. The reactor's fuel elements population of 300,000. This john Paxson jumpshot from tbe baseline tw~lll' U'on the contest, 50-48. See page 8 for were never uncovered, said Ebe Officials dedared "site l'mer­witb 8 seconds remaining sent last nigbt's Notre details. (Photo by Carrie Koplin)
a McCabe, NRC regional reactor gency," the second most serious of Dame-idaho gcune into overtime. Tbe irish even-projects section chid four emergency dassifications, llarold Denton, director of the within 7'5 miutes of the tube rupture NRC, said in Washington that "it at 9:2'5 a.m. 
Envisioned empire 
might be expensive for the operator NRC oftkials said the incident to dean up, hut in terms of public marked the first usc of that emer­hc:alth consequences it wasn't very gency classification since the .\1arch 


Billionaire loses holdings to banks 

serious." 2H, 197<), accident at the Three Mile RIO DE JANEIRO, Brazil (AP) -surancc firms and conglomc:rates. At generals who ruled Brazil said thl·y
Oftkials said thl· reactor was Island plant ncar Harrbburg, Pa. TMI The failing Amazon agri-business the presidential palace in Brasilia, a wanted to develop the Amazon at al­
being coolnl down well below was the nation's worst commercial project of U.S. Billionaire Daniel K. ceremony was scheduled to formal­most any cost. They enthusiastkally
operating temperature and the nuclear accident. The plant remains Ludwig was being officially trans­ly sign over ownership. invited Ludwig to invest.
cooling down process was expected shut. ferred to Brazilian owners yester­Ludwig, an 1-1'5-year-old New York Ludwig cleared a 2 '50,000 acres of
to be: compkted by today or tomor­By midday, Bassett said the leak day, ending the tycoon's vision of reduse, had been lured to the jungle and
row. was "isolated and terminated." planted seedlings of a multiplying his fortunes with a Amazon by its vast natural fast-growing Asian tree called
Richard de Young, director of the According to Barbara Thomas­jungle empire. resources. But his l 5-year-old Jari gmelina to produce wood pulp. He
NRC's otlke of enforcement, said it Noble of the state Health Depart­Documents were scheduled to be project-6, l I 7 square miles oftim­built a mill in Japan and had the pulp
would he "a number of weeks" ment, industry oftkials measured filed with the Rio de Janeiro State ber, cattle, aluminim mines, day pits towed halfway around the world on
hc:forc the plant is hack to normal. the radiation at the plant's boundary Corporate Registry giving title of and experimental rice farms the size special bargc:s. He mined for
Denton idc:ntificd the gases at I. '5 millirems. Officials estimate a Ludwig's farm-ranch complex on of Connecticut and Rhode Island -bauxite, the ore that yields
rdcast:d as radioactive xenon and See EMERGENCY,page 4 the equator in northern Brazil to a was on the vc:rge of financial col­aluminum. He cleared land for cattle

krypton. group of 2 3 Brazilian banks, in-lapse. and undertook a special high-yidd Ludwig also was the target of in­rice project. He also built a company tense nationalism that. according to town in the middle of the jungle and some accounts, unjustly branded installed plumbing, electricity, him an "imperialist exploiter." sewers, roads and telephones.
Videotapes help cancer patients 
The Brazilian t1rms. which rc:in­But the gmdina trlTS ti.tiled to corpratcd the project under the aoapt. Spending got out of hand, and name Companhia do _lari -Jari Co. by I<JHO Jari was losing S I 00 million 

ByJEFF BARNARD now a freshman at Brown University. "The last time I in Portuguese, Brazil's language -a year. Protracted legal disputes Assoctat<'d Press looked at the tape, I was in remission. I forgot about put up S I 00 million in capital. They arose over Ludwig's title to the how I felt when I got the disease. One of those things were helped by an additional S I HO property. His sccrc:tivc business 
was not taking every day for granted." million pledged by Banco do Brasil, ways provoked "Yankee gohome" 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. ( AP) -As captain of his high Besides giving the patients a chance to share ex­a large government-run bank. ft:ver. ~d10ol tennis team. Peter F. Findlay used videotape to periences like the pain ofchemotherapy and the fear of With those resources, the: consor­Oftkial doors once opc:nnl for improve his volley. Now 1he l H-ycar-old is using what changes will occur in their lives, the tapes allow tium says it can guarantee payment Ludwig slammed shut. Criticized. videotapt· to lc:arn how to live with lc:ukemia. thc:ir families, fril-nds and even strangers to t1nd out a of Jari's outstanding S:HO million pressurc:d, ignored and frustratl·d, 
Findlay and other young cancer patients are t1nding kid with cancer is still a regular kid, Ms. LaFargc says. debt and finance the project for he turned his back in disgust. In that recording group discussions helps them under­"We decided to usc videotape to entice the adoles­three years while efforts to make it I <JH l he stopped paying dehts on stand their hopes and ft-ars. cents to do something for other people," said Tull, who profitable arc under way. 
See BRAZIL,page 3

"There is something about bl'ing recorded, made with Ms. LaFarge is on the faculty of the Brown Univer­WhenJari was started in 1967, the pamancnt, rhat is paricularly relevant to these kids, sity School of Biology and Medicine:. who arc facing the possibility of dying," says Stephanie "Videotape is good in learning to ski," Ms. LaFarge 1.. l.aFargc:, who helped start the program. said. "It works the same way in coping with the fact that 
Doctors and ---------------you have cancer. It is a tool." 
Student elections held earlier 

While the project was born out ofa desire to help the
nurses say they TUESDAY..(%1ii@,\l$@l:wiitM1W

also bcndit, by .&i'liililllMMiW?~ children, Dr. Paul A. Pitd says it is of greater benefit to the hospital staff. 
to aid incoming officers 

"As a physician, I think it's been very hdpful in that understand their the children explain very dearly what their needs are Petitions for office were al~o dis­
;~l~~~~t ~~~s i~~; ~-~~W F 0 CUS 

By RICH COLLIS 

patients' feelings. from the medical staff and how our actions-good and News Staff tributed to the candidates. Petitions 
The tapes grew out of Ms. l.at-arge's discusstons with bad -aftcct them," says Pilei, a blood and cancer require I00 signatures for a ticket to adolc~cent cancc:r patients at Rhode Island Hospital as specialist at Rhode Island Hospital. The Ombudsman electioris com­be put on the SBP-SBVP ballot and part of her doctoral dissertation for Coiumbia Univer­"The psychology of health is a controversial area," mittees held meetings last night ti>r '50 signatures to gain a Student sity..\1s. I.aFargc is a consultant in pediatric oncology, Pitd said. "But it is very dear that patients need to main­those studenb interested in running Senate nomination. Petitions for 
or cancer treatment. at the hospital. tain a certain degree ofoptimism and energy just to get for Student Body offices or ti>r Stu­those students still interestc:d in run­
Shl' ami Dr. Robl·rt Tull, a hospital psychologist, have through what is often a trying c:xperience." dent Senate seats. Committee Chair­ning for Student Senate seats will bl· produced tilur tapes of groups of t1ve youngsters each, Pitel said the tapes also help the parents understand man Andy Tucker met with available all day tomorrow in the aged 13 to 2.2, who talk about their expl-riences with the teelings of their children, who oftc:n try to protect candidates for SBP and SBVP, Student Governml·nt Office. 
dift(:rent forms ofcancer. members ofthe family by hiding their fear and suffering. representing a total of four t tickets, Campaigning will begin at noon "When a kid is diagnosed as having canet-r, part of his "It is difticult to get adolescents to participle in group and Senate hopefuls from the four on Feb. I and end at noon Feb. 7. 
life is out ofcontrol," Tull says. "We have these kids edit therapy, but ifyou tell them you arc making a videotape campus senatorial districts. Elections will be hdd in the the tapes thl·msclves and pick out the music that goes and through the medium of television they will com­The meetings included a review residence halls on Feb. H. along with them. Bdng ahk to take control of any part municate a message to others, they are very willing to of the rules guiding the elections, Student elections are being held 
ofp!Ur lik ar that point is critical." do it," Pitel said. focusing on campaign violations and earlier this year so that incoming of­"Sedng the tapt· again often brings back thoughts I spending limits for campaign ficers can accustom themselves to
See VIDEOTAPE,page 3 
may not have hc:en thinking about latc:ly," says Findlay, budgets. the student government system. 







ews Briefs 

By The Observer and The Associated Press 
The aircraftCarrierUSS Constellation, part ofthe U.S. naval presence in the Indian Ocean, dropped anchor at the Kenyan port of \otombasa yesterday for a goodwill visit, the U.S. Embassy said. The carrier. whose home port is San Diego, Calif., is scheduled to ,·isit \oiombasa until Saturday. The 60, I 00-ton Constellation is one of about 25 American warships that patrol the region, including the Indian Ocean, Arabian Sea and Persian Gulf. The Navy's buildup began in late I979 after the seizure oftht: U.S. Embassy in T!:~hran. ­
AP 
The Palestine Liberation Organization in Beirut, Lebanon, yesterday accused American U.N. Ambassador Jeane Kirkpatrick of issuing statements "hostile to the Palestinian people and to its sole legitimate representative." The PLO statement also accused Mrs. Kirkpatrick of "supporting the Israeli aggressor" be­cause ofan interview she gave Israeli radio over the weekend. In the 

interview, she was quoted as saying the PLO was not the only repre­sentative ofthe Palestinian people. She also was quoted as saying the Palestinian guerrilla movement has "participated in terrorist opera­tions with help from the Soviet Union and Cuba." The statement said the PLO is recognized as the sole representative of the Palestinian people by II 7 nations, more than twice the number that recognize IsraeL -AP 
The American Legion has pledged si million for the Vietnam Veterans' memorial to be built on the Mall in Washing­ton. D.C.. Jan Scruggs, president of the memorial fund, said yester­day. Scruggs made public a telegram sent by American Legion Commander Jack W. Flynt to Intetior Secretary James Watt, which said Flynt was "deeply concerned by (Watt's) hesitancy in approv­ing construction of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial." Flynt's wire from the Legion's Indianapolis headquarters said he had reviewed the memorial's design and "because we see it to be a dignified and eloquent tribute to the service and sacrifice of Vietnam veterans, (we) are pledging I million toward its construction." -AP 
The Center for Experiential Learning 

and the Social Concerns Commission of Student Government is co­sponsoring a Social Concerns Seminar from March I3-20 in Wash­ington D.C. The seminar is actually a one-credit hour course offered by the Department of Theology called "Social Concerns-Govern­ment'' and is open ro Notre Dame and Saint Mary's sophomores and juniors. The seminar will be limited to 24 students who are "willing to commit themselves to preparation, Immersion in the weeklong educational experience, evaluation and follow-up," according to the program director \oiarcia Le May. Requin:ments for the course in­clude attending a speech given by Archbishop Hunthausen ofSeattle on the ropic of "Why Challenge Nuclear Arms: Risking a Christian Response." on jan. 29 at 7:30p.m. in the Library Auditorium. -The Observer 
Lauren Toohey, an 1 I-year-old liver transplant patient from Pittsburgh, clutched a Humply Dumpty doll and chomped on a French fry yesterday as she was released from Children's Hospital two months after her operation. The Kinnelon, N.)., youngster quiet­I\· posed for news photographers as her parents expressed thanks to the doctors and hospital staff. "We're very grateful," said Joseph Toohey. Lauren's father. Now we're looking for a future with her." Dr. Bud Shaw, a member of the team that transplanted the liver of a -1-year-old Wisconsin boy into Lauren on Nov. 14, said she will remain in the Pittsburgh area for further routine tests. "Her surgery was pretty stable for a liver transplant. Her post-operative history has been fairly phenomenal," Shaw told reporters. Toohey said Lauren has shown no trace of the cancer that forced doctors to replace her li\·er. The operation was performed by Dr. Thomas Starzl, the only 
physician in the United States who now transplants livers. -AP 
New York City mayor Edward Koch was flying home yesterday from a l 0-day vacation in Spain to face a newspaper­inspired attempt to draft him for the governor's race. The mayor's news secretary, Tom Goldstein, said that just bdore the mayor left for Spain he made it clear at a news conference that he was not interested in running for governor. Koch has said repeatedly that he will not run for any office other than mayor. However, a New York Post editorial said yesterday that "New York City needs him, but so does :'\ew York State." It called for Koch to run for the Democratic nomination for governor. Most ofpage three ofthe Post was devoted t<J a plea to readers to clip and mail in a coupon urging Koch to run. "'The more coupons are received from our readers, the bigger the re~ponse. the more it is possible that a'Draft Ed for Governor' move­ment will gather force and eventually sweep him to victory," the new~paper said. -AP 
Mostly sunnybut cold today with the high in the teens. Tonight increasing cloudiness with a 20 percent chance of light ~now or freezing drizzle. Slowly rising temperatures Tomorrow a chance offreezing drizzle or light rain. High in the low and mid :30s. 
-AP 

Tuesday, January 26, 1982 -page 2 
A tradition up in smoke 
They called it the "hotspot" of South Bend. It was part of every student's weekend routine. The people, the atmosphere, the music. All this and more attracted the Saint Mary's-Notre Dame com­munity. For years it had been an Irish tradition. 
But then, on one bitter cold Sunday morning, it all came to an end. It started in the back, smolder­ing the "Skoll" (a popular chewing tobacco) covered walls, making its way past the newly­recovered pool tables and across the sticky, beer infested floors. Fire was everywhere, destroying a long time tradition. 
Corby's Tavern, Inc., was gone. 
The damage estimate was rounded to a mere $50,000 (are cement blocks really that ex­pensive?). The "hole in the wall" interior, as it was recently described by an NO alumnus, was ruined. For those who frequented Corby's it may be dif­ficult to think of it as being anything but ruined, even after a major fire. Yet, it was the home ofthe Rugby team and hundreds of other students who loved Corby's. 
The little "hole in the wall" bar on Corby's Street was the most popular off-campus spot. Even though there were al­ways "too many guys and not enough women" at 
really hear it because it's too loud) "and it's where all my friends hang out. It's definately not the atmosphere that attracts us." 
Corby's became a lifestyle for many devoted people. Everyone who went there was ac­coustomed to the same Grateful Dead tapes, the same familiar faces behind the bar and the same weekend crowd. This was Corby's and that's just the way it was. 
Occasionally, Corby's even attracted the atypi­cal in the crowd found there. One Notre Dame senior who was wearing multi-colored embroidered ducks on his Khaki pants com­mented on Corby's: "I like Corby's because it got that 'homey' touch to it...it's like drinking in my garage. Although, my garage is more tastefully fur­nished. Actually, I think it's a dump but what else is there?" 
The die-hard Corby's fans visited the bar daily for happy hour. "I remember going to Corby's af­ter classes during the week," commented an NO grad. "That was the best time to go, when there 
weren't a million people around." 
r 1];ne1)bSerY-e;. i 
Design Editor................... Deirdre Murphy 1 Design Assistants.......... Suzanne La Croix 
I 

Tim Nedy Layout Staff................... Fred Zimmt:rman T)'pesetters ................................... St<:ve Burg 
Stephen Brown 
! 

Neu•s Assistant................ Cathy Domanico , 
Copy Editors .......................... Kathy Murray 1 
Valerie Evans I Sports Copy Editor............. Dav<: Dziedzic 1,· T}'pist .................................... john McCarthy ND Day Editor................. Karen MeMahon S.\JC Da}' Editor.................. )ul<: Tramarchi 1, Ad Design ....................................john & Co. J Phqtographer..................................... Rachd l Guest Appearances The hask<:tball team. I sdcctt:d pcrsons of imaginary impor­
tam.:c. 

I 
"Next time you feel th<: urge to reach for a pcanut-butrer-and-hanana 1 sandwkh. now you know what you l should bt:' n.'aching for." ~ 
--·--·-~ --·-d 

SffiC ORIENTATION '81 
APPLICATIONS ARE NOW 
BElNG ACCEPTED FOR: Chairman Assistant Chairman 
Social Chairman Big Sister /Little Sister Off-CampusChairman Chairman General Committee 
Transfer Chairman 
Workers 

Applications are available in the Student Activities Office (166 Lemans Hall) Deadline for applications--Tues. Feb 2, 1982 lease sign up for an interview when you return your application. 

Another younger bar frequenter said ofCorby's, "It was the only place you could go underage." Many seniors have happy memories of their first underage drinking days at Corby's. 
In fact, now that Corby's is closed, the younger drinkers are seeking other alternatives to it. "A great deal of underage people tried to get into Senior Bar last weekend. That was the Corby's crowd," NO Student Government Vice President Tara Kenney explained. The Commons and Irish Country, she added, also had more business than usual. Places like Nickie's are also picking up. 
But dare the true Corby's fans change their lifestyles and move on to someplace else like Irish Country or Senior Bar? "No!" said a very "old" SMC sophomore. "I lived there (at Corby's). I will 
not go to Irish Country; it just can't replace the Corby's crowd. Bridget's is the only place that can come close to Corby's" 
Well, for now, Corby's is gone. 
"Corby's will fade into everyone's memory...like the old Library (the ear­lier name for the deceased Goose's)," said an NO alumnus. 
Devoted Corby's fans keep hoping that their 
-.70,~'-ili::~·.~· haven will soon be resur­rected. But until then, remember the Old Corby's tradition. 
Observer notes________, 
The Observer is always looking for new reporters. If you are interested in reporting come up to The Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune or call 239-5303 and ask for News Editor Kelli Flint or the Day Editor. 
Design Assistants are also needed to work on The Observer. Any interested persons contact Mike Monk at 1181 or come up to The Observer office after 8 p.m. and ask for the Design Editor. 
Letters to the editor are always welcome. They should be sent to The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556. Each letter must be signed by the writer to be con­sidered for publication. 

Corby's, it was always packed on the weekends. Why did so many people flock to such an "establishment?" A Notre Dame senior remarked, "I like Corby's because its where the 'real' people go. People like you for what you are, not be­cause you have a reptile on your shirt." Another SMC senior added, "the music is great" at Corby's (even though you can't 

Editorial Board 
l:'ditor-in-Chief..... .. ................john McGrath Founded November 3, 1966 
Executit1e News Editor.. .. .... Kelli l'lint Sports Editor ......... Skip Desjardin The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the .Veu·s Editor.. ...David Rickabaugh Photo Editor............ 
..John Macor University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily SJ!C /:'xecutit•e Lditor. ..........\-lary Agnes Care~ Lditorials Editor ..........Anthony Walton reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report­S~HC Neu•s Editor................ ..... Cathy Domanico Features Editor .... .. ..... Ciregory Swiercz ed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views Department Managers of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and 
Business Manager ........ ... Rich Coppola Production Manager.. .... .......... Michael Monk 
the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, i5 encouuged. 
Controller....... .............. . ...... Joe .\1ulflur Circulation Manager ..Tom MacLennaP Aduertising Mana[!er....... ......Chri~ Owen .\)•stems Manager ........... Bruce Oakley
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 




The Observer 
Student cotnm.ittee to evaluate OSA 
tee will merely get answers to our

By MICHELE DIETZ 
4ul·stions. The committee will

Nt•u·sStuff 
evaluate the entire office and not 
any one official. 

Plans for an ad hoc committee to Also introduced at the meeting evaluate the Office ofStudt·nt Affairs was the name of the psychologist dominated last nights Student who will work with the Student life Senate meeting. Committee. Dr. Bob Hccklt: will 
The committee, to consist of work with the committee to inves­
~cvcral Senate members, will look at tigate social life at Notre Dame. 
the Oftkc of Student Aff.airs in rela­A budget report was also 
tion to the rest of the Notre Dame pn:sented to the Senate by Karen 
community and make recommenda­Kiley, Student Body treasurer. AStu­
tions to better the OSA. dent Senate tirst, the budget listed 
"It is not meant as a slap in the financial figures of the Student Uni­face," Don Murday, Student Body on, Student Government, and oft: president, remarked. "The commit-Campus funds. 

Medical examiners find possible crash hero 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Air The finding again raised specula­
Florida jetliner that plunged into the tion that Williams was the hero who Potomac River hardy reached passed a helicopter lifeline to others takeoff velocity after roaring down before he slipped beneath the icc­the runway IS seconds longer than caked surface of the river. Four pas­normal, then lost speed almost as sengers and a stewardess survived. soon as it was airborne, according to Several doctors said privately that instrument readings revealed yes­it is likely Williams was the man, but terday. none would say that positively. 
Federal investigators, disclosing Police, who arc handling public 
data from the Boeing 7-~ 7's tlight re­statements about recovery of the 
corder. said the twin-engine airnaft bodies, refused to say where Wil­
had trouble: developing proper ac­liams was found. 
cc:lcration almost from start of The recorder showed the plane, 
takeoff and never got more than 377 taking off in a snowstorm, reached 
feet into the air. tht· 144-knot speed needed to lift off 
Mt·dical examiners, meanwhile, and begin its climb. But six-tenths of concluded all but one of the 74 a second later, the plane began to people: who died aboard the plane lose accclc:ration, never attaining a jan. 13 suffered severe injuries from speed of more than I47 knots, nor impact and probably could not have an altitude greater than 377 feet ­survived the accident even if rescue at a point where it should have been workers had reached them im­at I,000 feet. mediately. Seconds later it clipped a busy 
The only exception, said Brian commuter bridge spanning the Blackbournc:, deputy chief medical Potomac River and crashed beneath otficcr for the District of Columbia, the river's icc. Seventy-eight people was Arland Williams, 46, of Atlanta, wac killed, including four motorists who died of exposure and drown­on the bridge. ing. He said Williams suffered no in­Francis McAdams, overseeing the juries from the crash. investigation for the National 
Transportation Safety Board, told 
reporters the plane took about IS 
seconds longer than normal to lift off 
from the runway and then failed to 
' ' get proper acceleration. It was air­
.Brazil 

borne "less than 30 seconds," he addt·d. continuedfrom page I Information from the tlight data 
recorder, whkh measured among loans fi>r the project, many under­other things the plane's altitude, written by Brazil's National speed, and heading, appeared to sub­Economic Dcvdopmcnt Bank. stantiate testimony from at least 
Brazilian mmmg industrialist three witnesses who have told inves­Augusto Trajano dt.• Azevedo tigators the plane lifted from the Antunes, an old friend of Ludwig's, runway wcll beyond the normal straightc:nt·d out Jari's debt­takeoff· point. repayment. lie: went to New York to Investigators. although refusing to personally draft terms of transfer of speculate about the cause of the ownership and now has -!0 percent crash. have paid particular attention control ofjari. to reports from witnesses that ex­
Yesterday's agreement covers all cessive ict· had accumulated on the of Ludwig's Brazilian holdings ex­airplane before takeoff: After it was cept the: bauxite: mines and rit'c: de-iced, the plane stood for at least tidds. -t3 minutes before it began its tlight. 
• • • Videotape 

Tuesday, january 26, 1982-page 3 
·--t 

The world airways DC/0 shown here in Boston Harbor at the end ofthe runway at Logan Inter­national Airport skidd~l off the runway Satur­day night with 208 people aboard. Allpassengers and personell u•ere rescued, ami the cause ofthe crash is under investigation. (AP Laserpboto) 
Talks in limbo 
Grotnyko, Haig discuss START 
MOSCOW (AP)-The Soviets are be identified said Gromyko's deci­Earlier this month, the NATO hoping today's meeting between sion to attend the meeting despite foreign ministers issued a statement Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko chilly East-West relations was blaming the Soviet Union for tht: im­and U.S. Secretary ofState Alexander designed to show Western Europe position of martial law in Poland and 
M. Haig Jr. will show Western that the: Soviet Union is doing what it warning that they would consider Europe the Kremlin is sincere about can to ease world tensions. sanctions if repressive measures restarting strategic arms limitation Nearly a year ago, Soviet leader weren't lifted. Last week, NATO talks despite tension over Poland. Leonid I. Brezhnev proposed a sum­representatives in Brussels said the 
Soviet and East European sources mit meeting with Reagan, but the: situation in Poland had worsened say in addition to arms limitation United States demurred. Recently, and that sanctions might be an­talks, Gromyko is expected to raise the Soviets have again been saying a nounced soon. such issues as Israel's annexation of summit could prove useful The Soviets have tried to con­the Golan Heights, U.S. support for Soviet foreign policy has at­vince Western allies that they will be the rightist regime in El Salvador and tempted to isolate America from its the ones who will suffer if they alleged American foot-dragging on NATO allies by making the White impose trade sanctions. independence: for Namibia. House appear to be the enemy of Although France has been highly 
Haig has said he wants to usc the peace. critical of Soviet involvement in talks to "express first-hand and While the NATO alliance has Poland, the: state-owned utility last directly the outrage" of the United shown some unity in the: face of mar­week signed a 2S-ycar contract to States against military repression in tial law in Poland, Europe_ has failed pur<:hasc natural gas from the Poland. Gromyko said yesterday he to join the United States in imposing Sibl·rian oil fldds. West Germany had no intention of discussing this sanctions gainst \1oscow and War­and Italy have also agreed to pur­with Haig -who aides say won't saw. chase: Siberian natural gas. bring up arms talks. 
The Haig-Gromyko meeting was 
......................,
originally slated for today and tomorrow, but shortened to one: day 
: Buy 013SERVER Classifieds e 
at Haig's insistence after the Dec. 13 military crackdown in Poland. It was 
hoped that the meeting might result : Available at the Observer Office, : 
in the setting of a date to open the strategic arms talks, formerly called 
: 3rd Floor LaFortune :
SALT but nicknamed START by the Reagan administration. Now American otfidals say those talks are 
e 9-4:30 dailye
in limbo. A Soviet official who asked not to 
The Observer IUSPS 598 9201 IS published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys Col· lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased 
ii~!iilllll!li~......JL 
tor $25 per year 1$15 per semester) by wntmg The Observer P 0 Box Q Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
The Ooserver 1s a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 

Jan.26,1982 "Anthropologists' Night at Senior. Bar" 8:00 All interested are cordially invited to attend. Bring 21 Ill 
Questions call 


Mary 2927 

continuedfrom page I 
"The tapt·s arc very powerful. think they cut through people's ddensc:s, because they arc so vivid. In an age when we art· all sen~itiznl to lhc film and tdcvbion media, I think they arc cvt·n more po\\ crful." 
Findlay and hb parents showed a tape of hb disn1ssion~ w .ith fellow patients to mt.·mhl-rs of their church and to friends in his native Grc:c:n­t·astlc, Ind. 
"When we showed it in church, 
people came to sec it who I never 
met before:," Findlay said. "It wasn't 
a particularly positive film in many 
rcspl·cts. For some people it takes 
real guts to StT it. Thl·n they stay and 
it makes you fed good." 
Susan It l.anoul·, IH, of \X'oon­
socket, was among the first group of 
girls to videotape their dist·ussions. 
"Wl' were all nervous at the begin­
ning," said the Bryan! College busi­
ness stutknt who lost her left arm to 
musclt· cancer. "\\'l· didn't even 
move our heads -just our eyes ­
becau~e we knew somebody was 
looking at us." 
As they got ust·d to it. they opened 
up, trading feelings about being in 
the hopital, the reactions of friends 
and family, and how doctors and 
nurses nnlld make them feel better. 
.\lbs Lanoue especially remem­bers one girl from that group, who has since died. 
.. \1an, she <:ould talk." shl· said. ".I ust to listen to hn is inspiring. Even though she is gone, I can still listen to her." 


-~------------~-----~----~ ------------------~--------­
The Observer Tuesday,January 26, 1982-page 4 
• • .Etnergency 

These two Domers ignore thefrigid weather in hopes ofwinning the grand prize ofthis Friday's So ph. -Jr. class party at Giuseppe's. The lucky winner will receive a trip for two to Fort Lauderdale. (Photo by Rachel Blount) 
96 y~m wibk f8_ DltUWt 


OBSeRveR 




HOlOGRAPH 

tkat luwe ti#JPeaW mUte pti#Je~t 
Send $4.00 and the date and 
photographer's name to: 
john Macor 
Photo Editor 
Box Q 

Notre Dame , Indiana 
46556 
Include a return address. 


continuedfrom page 1 
lethal dose of radiation at between 600 and I,000 rems, while a mil­lirem is one-one thousandth of a rem, she said. 
Radiation checks showed the "dose rates" to be no higher than what could be expected in nature, Sullivan said. "Surface contamina­tion is not expected to occur," he said. 
"We are told that all systems worked as they were supposed to work," said Bassett. "The company said all the bells went off when they were supposed to and that the shut­down system operated properly." 
The plant, named for retired RG&E board chairman Robert E. Ginna, has a history of steam tube problems, according to NRC records. The plant underwent an emergency drill test last Thursday. Despite a communications problem due to a computer, the exercise went smoothly, said Terc, who directed the drill. 
In Albany, state officials activated their Emergency Operations Center to monitor the situation. Under dis­aster planning procedures upgraded after the Three Mile Island accident, the county takes the lead in such emergencies, with the state Health Department taking the lead for the state. 
Regional NRC administrator Ronald Haynes, arriving in Roches­ter with a team of experts to inves­tigate the incident, said: "surely 
•. • STUDENT GOVERNMENT • • 
••••••••• PRESENTS •• • •• • •••• :: SOCIAL CONCERNS :: • • FILM SERIES • • 
::TheKingofHearts
•• 9
•• 7, :30 Eng.Aud. 
: :rrue Confessions :: 7,9,11 Eng.Aud. 
••,... 0 
• eJ. wo Documentanes 
:: Excuse Me, America •• H
• • iroshima 
:: LaFortune Ballroom FREE • • -with Prof. John Roos and :: Dean Kathleen Weigert­
::Or. Strangelove Feb. 1, 3,_4, 5 :: • • 7, 9:30 Eng. Aud. 504 

N.D. Student Union's Annual 
SPRINGBREAK 
ln 


DAYTONABEA 
6/room March 12-2
4/room 

up now at the Ticket Office/ Record Store lOam-4 Mon.-Fri. or call283-3031 

we've had steam generator tube leaks, but not this bad. This is cer­tainly classified as an unusual event." 
According to Jack Bryan, public information officer for the state Dis­aster Preparedness Commssion, radiation was released in bursts, totaling three minutes' worth. The releases occurred over one hour, said Jay Dunkleberger, director of the Bureau of Nuclear Operations of the state energeny office. 
Sanborn said yesterday that a tube leak in the steam generator in the 

Jaruzelski lashes out at U.S., Solidarity 
POLAND (AP) -Polish Premier Wojciech Jaruzelski bitterly at­tacked the independent labor federation Solidarity, the United States and its allies yesterday and hinted that military control of Poland's mines and factories will continue for some time. 
In his first address to the Sejm, or Parliament, since martial law was declared Dec. 13, jaruzelski said some restrictions on civil liberties could be lifted by the end of February, but only if there are no 
"illegal activities" directed against the state, Radio Warsaw reported. Warsaw radio also reported 
Jan.26-7 :: FREE • • 
Jan. 28-9 :: 
$1 
Jan. 28 7:30 9:30 

:: :: :: 
:••: 
primary cooling system apparently leaked at the rate of 75 gallons per minute. 
McCabe said about 8,000 gallons of water was standing 9.3 feet deep in the containment sump welL He said the water was probably slightly radioactive, "but certainly not dan­
~erous." 

Last September, the NRC rated the nation's nuclear power plants and found 36, including Ginna, to be average in overall operation. Twenty-one were below average and 1 S were above average. 
gasoline sales would resume in 
February, under a strict rationing 
system. 

In Belgium, Common Market 
representatives meeting at their 
Brussels headquarters agreed to 
push for higher interest rates on 
Common Market export credits 
granted the Soviet Union. 

"Before the 13th of December last 
year, the stability and security of the 
state had been unhinged and the 
economy was crashing," Warsaw 
radio quoted jaruzelski as saying. 
"The threat of fratricidal war was in 
the air." 

Repeated demands for order were ignored, he said. "Agreement was an obstacle for the extremist forces in Solidarity who saw their supreme goal in destruction of the socialist statehood ofPoland ... I charge these forces with paralyzing the authori­ties, with sowing hatred and with breaking the law time and again, with strike terrorism." 
He said lifting of martial law would depend "on the fulfillment of conditions which would secure a permanent, safe and normal course oflife, the smooth functioning ofthe economy." 
He said Poland has a long way to go before martial law is ended. 
"The calendar must not decide the future ofour country, and above all no external pressure whatsoever must decide it," he said in an ap­parent reference to Western demands for the release ofinternees and restoration ofcivil liberties. 
"If no illegal actions develop, if unforeseen circumstances do not arise, these restrictions (on civil liberties) will be lifted, or con­siderably reduced, at any rate, by the end of next month," saidjaruzelski. 
He accused the United States and NATO of indulging in "psychological propaganda aggres­sion" against Poland, especially by withholding food shipments. 
He repeated Polish claims that at­tempts by the West ro have martial law lifted violate the Helsinki ac­cords. Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko was expected to make the same assertion today in talks with Secretary ofState Alexan­der M. Haigjr. in Geneva. 
In Washington, White House spokesman Larry Speakes said diplomatic reports contradict Jaruzelski's claim that repressive measures may soon be lifted. He said jaruzelski's speech seemed to be a justification of martial law, so it "surely could not be characterized as positive in its implications." 

Sports Brie!§ 
By The ( J/Jseruer and Tbe Associated Press 
The ND-SMC ski team participated in a nine-team meet in Brandywine, Ohio, on Saturday. The Saint Mary's team tinished tlfth overall in the slalom. Sharon Smiggen finished seventh in the slalom, and Nancy Sheft finished cigth. In the giant slalom, the St. Mary's squad t1nished second. In individual giant slalom competi­tion, Smiggen finished t(mrth, Dwyer fnished fifth, and Sheft tlnished cigth. The Notre Dame women tlnished third as a team in the slalom. Katie Gaffney finished third, Sue Hull placed l l th, and Beth Mahrer tlnished 14th. The ND women won the giant slalom team competi­tion. Gaffney tlnished second, Theresa Abrams finished third, Mahrcr tlnishcd sixth, and Hull placed 12th. The ND men tlnished third in the team slalom competition. Mike Maas finished third, Sean Chandler seventh, Steve Hilbert l 5th, and Kim Hewson 19th. The men also finished third in the giant slalom competition. Hewson placed sixth, Chandler tlnished ninth, Phil Stenger I Oth, and Barry Tharp I l th. -Tbe Observer 
Bookstore Basketball Commissioner Emeritus Rob Simari and An-Tostal Chairman Kevin Cawnec:n have an­nounced that Dave Dziedzic will be the commissioner of the 1982 tournament. Dziedzic will soon be forming a committee to assist him in organizing the prestigious tournament. -The Observer 
The City of San Francisco continued its bois­terous Super Bowl celebration yesterday, as the fans awaited the return of their heroes. Balloons of red and gold, the 49ers colors, fluttered in clusters over City Hall. But with the fun-making came some trouble. More than I00 people suffered minor injuries and another I00 were arrested. Police used riot gear and called in rein­forcements in the rowdiest spots in what some observers called San Francisco's biggest street party since the end of World War II. -AP 
Big boat sailorswith racing experience on medium w large size boats arc: needed by the Notre Dame Sailing Club. Call Phil Reynolds at 233-3411 for more details -Tbe Observer 

Yesterday's Results Notre Dame 50, Idaho 48 Idaho (48) 
M FG-A FT-A  R  
Herbert  45  1-5  0-0  4  
Hopson  45  3-5  0-3  4  
Smtih  41  5-6  0-1  4  
Kellerman  45  9-14  0-0  5  
Owens  45  6-10  0-0  1  
WatkinS  4  0-0  0-0  0  
225 24-40  0-4  18  

F P 3 2 3 6 4 10 3 18 4 12 0 0 17 48 
FG Pet. 600. FT Pet. -.000. Team rebounds -3. Turnovers -11 Asststs -16 (Owens. 7; Herbert. 4. Techmcals-none 
Notre Dame (50) 
M FG-A FT-A R F P Varner 41 4-7 3-5 5 2 11 Spencer 11 0-1 0-2 1 0 0 Andree 45 3-8 2-2 4 4 8 Mttchell 39 1-3 0-0 5 1 2 Paxson 45 5-9 0-0 0 3 10 Rowan 38 6-9 5-6 5 3 17 Rucker 6 1-1 0-0 0 0 2 
225 20-38 10-15 20 13 50 
FG Pel. .526. FT Pet. -.667. Team rebounds -0. Turnovers -13. Asstsls -9 (Mtlchell, 4). Techmcals-none. 
Halftime -Idaho 36, Notre Dame 26. Ollt­cials -Bob Burson. Veri Sell. Malcolm Hem­
phill (all Big Ten) A-11,345 (c). 
NBA Eastern Conference Atlantic Division 
W L 
Boston 30 11 Philadelphia 29 12 Washngton 21 19 New York t9 23 New Jersey 18 23 
Central Division 
Milwaukee 27 14 Atlanta 19 20 lfldtana 19 23 Chtcago t8 23 DetrOit 17 26 Cleveland 7 33 
Western Conference 
Midwest Division 
W L 
San Antomo 26 14 Denver 22 20 Houston t9 22 Kansas City 14 27 Utah 13 27 Dallas 12 28 
Pet. GB 
732 .707 1 .525, 8.5 
452 11.5 439 12 
.659 487 7 452 8.5 
.439 9 .395 11 175 19.5 
Pet. GB .650 
Tuesday, january 26, 1982 _:_page 5 
Pacific Division  
Los Angeles  30  11  .732  
Seattle  28  13  .683  2  
Phoenix  24  15  .615  5  
Golden State  22  17  .564  7  
Portland  22  18  .550  7.5  
San Diego  12  29  .293  18  
Yesterday's Results  
Seattle 113. New York 99  


CENTRAL COLLEGIATE 
HOCKEY ASSOCIATION 
W L T GF GA Pet Bowling Green 14 5 120 75 .725 Mtch. State 14 6 83 57 .690 Mtch. Tech 12 7 91 89 .625 MIChtgan 9 6 4 57 55 .579 Ferns St. 10 8 2 82 76 .550 
N. Michtgan 10 10 0 79 90 500 Notre Dame 8 10 2 94 93 450 L Supenor 8 10 2 82 76 .450 M1am1 6 11 63 76 361 W. Mtchtgan 5 14 78 102 .275 OhioSt 5 14 59 85 275 


MEN'S BASKETBALL Results of Jan. 18 
ACC Flanner (21) 68. 0-C ( 17) 64 Grace (22) 54, Stanford (20) 30 Dtllon (23) 61. Stanford (19) 46 Carroll (18) 69, Cavanaugh (24) 58 
ECAC Ftsher (43) over Carroll (44) by to,lett Dtllon (49) 54. Stanford (45) 33 Flanner (46) 4t. Grace (48) 39 
Mornssey (50) 4t, Carroll (44) 22 
Results of Jan. 20 
BIG TEN Morrissey (1) 35. Grace (4) 33 Holy Cross (5) 52, Dtllon (3) 35 Howard (6) 59, Zahm (2) 50 

ECAC ZAHM (47) 46, 0-C (51) 41 
SEC Grace (28) 43. Holy Cross (30) 36 Howard (25) 49, Keenan (33) 34 Dillon (27) 59. Sarin (37) 35 Cavanaugh (26) 45, 0-C (32) 37 
BIG SKY Pangborn (39) 54, St. Ed's (39) 31 Keenan (42) 47, Mornsey (34) 29 Grace (36) 37, 0-C (40) 35 0-C (35) 39, Alumm (43) 31 
Thla week's games 
Tuea. Jan. 26 

PAC TEN Flanner (9) v. Grace (1t) St. Ed's (12) v. 0-C (10) 
SEC Grace (28) v, Cavanaugh (26) Flenner (29) v. Howard (25) Holy Cross (30) v. Keenan (3J) Sonn (31) v. 0-C (32) 
BIG SKY Flanner (38) v. Mornssey (34) Pangborn (39) v. Keenan ( 42) 0-C (40) v Alumm (41) St. Ed's (37) v. 0-C (35) 
ECAC Grace (48) v. Carroll (44) Dtllon (491 v. Mornsey (50) 
Thura. Jan. 28 

PAC TEN Pangborn ( t3) v. Ftsher (16) Sonn (14) v. Alumni (15) 
See SPORTSBOARD,page 6 

..524 .463 7.5 .341 12.5 .325 13 .300 14 

Classifieds  The Observer wtll accept classtheds Mon­day through Friday. 10 a.m to 4.30 p.m. However. classtfteds to appear 111 the next tssue must be recetved by 3 p.m. the bustness day prtor to tnsertton. All classtheds must be prepatd. etther tn person or through the matl  
3- ~-NO_T_IC_ES~~~~_FO_R_R_EN_T~~~~__TIC_K_E_TS~ Need 2 Marquette GAs.Call Arl3tt 0The Soctety tor Creattve Anachromsm ts 1 BEDROOM EFFICIENCY FOR RENT. com1ng soon. Watch tor 1! FURNISHED, WITH UTILITIES PARKING. YARD LIGHTS OFF NEED 2 GEN OR STUD TIX FOR MAR· PORTAGE--612 N CUSHING MAKE QUETTE GAME. CALL MATT. t478 OFFER REFERENCES. NO LEASE HELPI I NEED MARQUETTE BASKET·WHO KNOWS WHAT EVIL LURKS IN 289·t687 BALL TICKETS. CALL STEVE AT 8729 THE HEARTS OF FISH? STUDENT RENTALS. 2 SIX BEDROOM Need MEGA Marquette Ttx · Call Dtck at THE SHAD KNOWS HOUSES NEXT DOOR TO EACH OTHER, FULLY CARPETED. 277-6065 FIREPLACE AND LOFT CALL 272· 7767, 232·4057. 272·2720 POLICE t1x 4-sale Chtcago Feb t 233· 6068LOST/FOUND 2 ROOMS. PRIVATE SHOWER AND ENTRANCE 288-0955 Desperately need 2 GAs lor MAR· QUETTE! Parents arnvmg soon. Please Call AI. t384Found Blue and green scart Dtscovered FURNISHED HOMES CLOSE TO ND at BendiX Woods t /14/82 Call John al FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 277-3604 NEED LOTS OF MARQUETTE TIX1764 to tdenttly FURNISHED HOME AVAILABLE NOW x8291 LOST· one leH hand brown caltsktn leal· 277-3604 I need about 5 Marquette tiCkets! ( Stu·her glove tn/around Washtngton Hall at dent or GA) Please call Maureen atcallbacks on the evemng ot the 18th · tt 8082found please contact Davtd Barber at 8t09 Thanx' ~' I need 4 tickets lor Marquette game stu· dent or GA call Done SMC 5824 FOUND Whtte sk1 cap wtth red and yel­WANTED low strtpes between Farley and North Need G.A or student Marquette lixl Call Dtntng Hall. Tuesday. Claim at Adm Bldg Greg. t082 Lost and Found t OR 2 ROOMMATES. URAD OR LAW HELP HELP HELP t 3 MARQUETTEANYONE KNOWING THE TO SHARE HOUSE IN NICE AREA AMAZONIANS HAVE PROMISED ME 69 WHEREABOUTS OF CASSETE TAPES CALL KEN AT 239-5694 OR 289-3945 INCREDIBLE SEXUAL FAVORS IF I WHICH ARE MISSING FROM SMC CAN COME UP WITH t4 MARQUETTEBEACH PARTY, PLEASE RETURN TO Need rtde 10 Cleveland. on Fnday. Jan B BALL TIX STUDEN TIX GAS EVEN LEMANSDESK 29 Can leave anyttme. Call John. 3770. OLD MARQUETTE FOOTBALL TIX PLEASE ANY AMT WILL HELP YOU LOST SILVER AMETRON WATCH NEEDED an tmagtnattve and creattve CAN EVEN WATCH THESE FAVORS LOST SOMEWHERE NEAR MENS person to destgn Student Umon artwork, FROM OUR VELVET VIEWING ROOM LOCKER ROOM AT THE ROCK Person s work wtll be seen weekly all over IF YOU CALL TIX FOR TEX 8232 ANYONE HAVING ANY INFORMATION campus Apply NOW at S U Offtce. OF THE WHEREABOUTS OF THIS NEED MARQUETTE TIX. STUD OR GA WATCH MAY CONTACT ME AT 3113 WANTED FEMALE VOCALISTS & CALL LARRY AT 277·3306. ASKFORBOB FLUTISTS FOR DILLON HALLS SUN· DAY MASS FOR MORE INFO CALL Need many MU ltx ED at t068 LOST 1 patr women s brown leather DAN AT 1697 gloves. probably leH 1n 203 0 Shag Need 2 GAs tor North Caroltna StatePlease call Notre Dame 7848 or 7850 tl Babysttter Wanted· occastonal weekend CALL8738you ftnd them ntghts. Call Pat. 288-04 73 LOST Patr of brown plasltc-nmmed NEED FEt..<ALE ROOMMATE FOR glasses w&lh brown case-case has CAMPUS VIEW. FALL SEMESTER broken pocket cltp It found. please bnng NEED tr.tMEDIATE REPLY X45t5. PERSONALS to lost and found tn Admn or call 1229 2 RIDERS NEEDED TO MARDI GRAS FOUND. One calculator. tn the library Feb 18·23 Call Bnan 8928 TO CAROL EILEEN. AND KATE. DOThursday nt(lht Call Dan al3378 to tden· ttty RIDERS NEEDED to Clev . Pttts .. West YOU THINK ANN S GRANDMOTHER PA area lor Feb 12·14 Call2843 WOULD LIKE ME? FOUND FOREIGN COIN ON ROAD BE· WEDNESDAYS CHILD HIND FIREHOUSE CALL 4635 TO IDENTIFY NIGHTSOUNDS 105 FM 10.30 PM FOR SALE LOST-Rockwell calculator 1n north dtnmg LaGROTTA RETURNS! Today IS all that hall over weekend no questtons asked. rematns. catt Bert at 6863 FOR SALE Two studded snow ttres. Will DAN KEUSAL AND FRIENDS -FEB 5 FOUND SET OF SIX KEYS. 24t lit most compact cars. $25.00 each. For AT THE NAZZ OONT MISS THIS ONE I OUTSIDE CAVANAUGH CALL TOM AT more tnto catt Andy at 8448 t470 MUSICIANS Looktng for a drum­o·sulltan stereo cabtnet and PIOneer TS· mer.vocahst and keyboard player to help LOST ND Key Cham and Key It found 695 car speakers reasonable priCe catt form a rock band for 2nd semester. In­Catt2843 Jamte 277-2046 terested? Catt OeMar 341 0 or Ketth 3507 . . . ...........,.' ...~.,  10 HIDDEN HEARTS! Feb 12 Zahm Ask aZahmbtel ANYONE INTERESTED IN JOINING A CLUB TO HELP RAISE MONEY FOR MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY PLEASE CALL at 8321 BY 1/28/82 WANTED MARQUETTE TIX CALL MOLLY 8034 Crime will pay tor ttckels to Pollee con­cert 1n Chtcago Desperately needed! Call Pengum at 284-5737 or Catwoman at 284·4108 WANTED: Tickets--as many as poss1ble for Mar­quette Willing to trade ttckets to any other home game Call Mtke at 8649. Fast Fast Fast Sign-ups for the Hunger Coalition's Wed­nesday Fast Program TODAY in both dining halls. Last semester over 900 people signed up to raise almost $10,000! Fast Fast Fast ATTENTION ALL MACOR FOR UMOC SUPPORTERS. I realtze that my God· gtven features are such that I can not wtn the UMOC contest. I hereby restgn from that compettlton I also ask thai all my loyal supporters cast thetr unendtng sup­port to MIKE GURDAK. undoubtedly the ugliest thtng on the lace of this year All goldfish cnnge at the stght of htm. smce they realtze that he IS I he btggest threat to their extstence, next to The Plague Anachrontsm. somethtng that ts out at place with respect to ttme. Glasses on a kn1ght tn shmtng armor ts an anachromsm SOCIAL CONCERNS FILM SERIES--­January 26-FebruaryS SOCIAL CONCERNS FILM SERIES The Ktng of Hearts January 26 and 27 Engmeertng Audtlortum 7 and 9.30 p.m FREE admtsston SOCIAL CONCERNS FILM SERIES--­DOCUMENTARIES dtscusston tollowtng eachltlm Excuse Me Amenca--7.30 p.m Dtscus· ston wtth Dean K. Wetgert HtroShtma--9 30 p.m. DISCUSSIOn With Prot. John Roes January 28--LaFortune Ballroom FREE admtsston BP 2-north. Take care of Szan. She needs some chaperonmg. espectally stnce shes a stngle now. Kandt MB. Sorry. I couldn't thtnk ot anythtng to write. but here s your personal. KK P.S. I know who yourSVRdate ISII  MARY KOZ (with a "z")...A BELATED WELCOME TO WONDERFUL N.D. AF­TER THAT LONG TREK ACROSS THE NEBRASKAN WASTELAND AND THE SEVERE TRAUMA OF HOOSIER DI5­LOCATION, WHY DON'T YOU SPEND A RELAXING EVENING WITH A BIG MUG OF CHOCOLATE MILK AND COF­FEE AND SOME KAREN AND RICH? MAY YOUR BEECHWOOD BE BOSS AND MAY ALL YOUR MERCEDES COME TRUE. YUCKA-DUCKA-DOO. PAT SABARTES KNOWS THAT THE MEANING OF LIFE LIES IN A~COHOL NOT DOMESTICITY CANT YOU AD· MIT THAT MAN FORGET THE WIFE BUSINESS LETS START OUR OWN COFFEEHOUSE IN THE VILLAGE AND MAKE ITALIAN NEO·REALIST FILMS IN BETWEEN POTS OF TEA SIGNED THE MAD AESTHETE To J.K & D· Thanks tor Frt-Next time lets sktp Alberts. chtlt and omons! Love. L S. & A Anorexia (selt-starvatton) and Bul1m1a (btnge ealtng/purgtng) are senous dtsor· ders. Dtfftcull to admtt and dtfftcull to change But help IS available Contact Dr Dan Ryb1ck1 or Dr Sue Stetbe at 239· 7336 tor tnlormatlon about the open meetmg to select ttmes tor the PROBLEMS IN EATING Group. meettng th1s week at 7pm Thurs., 3rd.tloor. Stu­dent Health Center. Psychologtcal Servtces To my secret sts. Thanks lor the cooktesl How much longer wtlll be kept tn suspense? Wattmg to hear from you agatn Tom 1n 913 Attentton Babes From Walsh We know what you want and we are prepared to gtve 11 to you We have 70 pens and wtll trade them tor sex Call Freddte Dtllon Downtown Brown Mtke S & Lou W Thanks tor the grand tour of your dorm on Fnday ntght The Bubble Gum was the best Stephen I had a ball· I mean. I had tun! Thanks lor breaktng panetals wtth me Luv. K Hey New Yorker. You re not the only one lull of surpnses. lve got a tew up my sleeve -when the occass&on anses. I'll gtve you credtl for planmng the att-ntghter. It made my weekend a little brtghter. But now 1t s my turn for the unexpected teat. Beware onn your btrthday of what you mtght meeL Fionda Sneak Joe Musumeci s Really pretty gooa­looklng manager surely you could have come up wtth better superlalives than that. Btll that's rtght. you're an engtneer Next lime try a lew of these: sptendtd, magmficent. generous. yes even >'llandsome and lun.  DO IT ON A WINDSURFER CRYSTAL ROCKS CRYSTAL ROCKS CRYSTAL ROCKS Thts Fnday at LaFortune s Chalauqua g. 1 PARTY!' CLINT EASTWOOD STARS IN THUN­DERBOLT AND LIGHTFOOT THIS TUESDAY AND WEDNSEDAY AT THE KNIGHTS OF COLUBUS BUILDING 7,9.1t Welcome back to the soctal ptnnacle ot the Midwest THE THREE MUSKETEERS JOHNNY LECHNER JOHNNY HELLUVA MAN LECHNER FOR MOST GORGEOUS GUY ON CAMPUS! sponsored by BUNNY AND TINA INC KEENAN you thtnk you have a hockey team. but you turkeys are JuSt a coop ol Jerks wtth the morals of the SMC crew team and I he legs to match People as ug­ly as you shouldn't be allowed to skate wtthout a mask· you scared the puck oil the 1ce three times We II skate you agatn any day and we 1: beat you tust as ollen. whtch IS only hall as oHen as you beat yourselves LOGAN CENTER VOLUNTEERS Don I forget th1s Saturday IS SNOW RECI We are gotng tubtng at Ersktne Country Club Meet at Logan at 9.00 and we wtll be back by 11 30 All volunteers are encouraged to come Make sure and dress warmly O.K Musumec11s ugly But as last years vote clearly shows. MIKE GURDAK IS THE UMOCI Mtke Gurdak IS so ugly that Hudson s of Untverstly Park Mall offered hts campatgn $50 11 he would JUSI stay out of the store He s so ugly thai the South Dtmng Hall htred htm to make thetr food look good So cast your vote lor the In­cumbent UMOC. MIKE GURDAKIIIIII Bnan. Sorry I a-sail-ed you Saturday mghl Its not often I get to do my Joe Mon­tana &m&tal&on wh&le danctng to the B· 52 s tt came from Planet Ryan · Donna As per your request. I shall make no mention of your citrus orbs. however I must compltment you on your afftmly tor pteces (Reese's that 1s) ... Ryan THANKS TO ALL THOSE WHO MADE MY 19TH B·DAY A GREAT ONE. B.P REALLY KNOWS HOW TO DO THINGS RIGHT. THANKS ESPECIALLY TO MY IOWA ROOMIE. (IOWA IS OK FOR A THIRD WORLD NATIONI) Salf-cententd-gnoatlc nMCia: Marquette basketball tickets Student or G.A. Call Jim 8630 Mr. Mojo"a rlaln' (and he loves toplay hockey)  

-------------·------­
The Observer -Sports 

• • • Sportsboard 

continuedfrom page 5 

ACC O-C(17)v. S1anford(19) Stanford (20) v. Carroll (18) Ffanner (2t) v. Cavanaugh (24) Grace (22) v. Dillon (23) 
ECAC Fisher (43) v. Stanford (45) Flanner (46) v. Carroll (44) Zahm (47) v. Morrissey (50) Grace (48) v. Dillon (49) 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Results of Jan. 24 Farley 1125, Lyons I 14 Lew1s I 39, Lew1s II 1 4 Breen-Phillips 22, Pasq. West 18 Badin 20, 0-C 1 2 Pasq. East 25, Walsh 22 Farleyl21, Lyons II 14 
This week's games 

Sun. Jan. 31 Breen-Phillips v. Pasq. East Pasq. West v. 0-C Farley I v. Lewis II Walsh v. Lyons II Bad1n v. Lyons I Farley II v. Lew1s I 
HOCKEY 

Last week's results Alumni 5, Pangborn 1 Mornsey 9, Sonn 1 Dillon 8, St. Ed's 2 Holy Cross 10. F1sher 1 O-C7.Zahm 1 Keenan 4, Cavanaugh 3 
This week's gamas 

Mon. Jan. 25 Flanner v. Grace Alumni v. Mornssey 
Tues. Jan. 26 Pangborn v. St. Ed's Sonn v. Holy Cross 
SEC Dillon (27) v. Howard (25) Grace (28) v. Keenan (33) 

HP·11C ..•....••..••• $100 HP·12C................ 115 HP-11/12 Sol. Bk. ..•.... 17 HP-32E.....••.••••.•••.. 43 HP·33E..•.•••.•••..••••• 49 HP·33C ••••..••.••..•••• 69 HP·34C•.••••.•.••••••• 115 HP·37E.••........•..•7 •. 59 
Card Reader ..  .165  
Optical Wand  95  
82143A Printer .  285  
Quad R.AM..  .95  
Memory Module.  23  
Rechargable Battery Pack  28.50  
10.50  
TI58C ..........80  
T1 PC100C••.•• 155  
Tl PROG ........ 50  
Tl5511 ..........37  
Tl MBA.......... 50  
Tl BA2 ..........39  
Tl Bus. Analyst ..•15  
Tl35 SP......... 18  
Tllnv.  ..42  


SKATINGThurs. Jan. 28 
Noon to 1 p.m. Mon., Wed .. Fn. (free skat1ng) Dillon v. Fisher Noon to 1 p.m. Tues Thurc: ffRculty·staff hockey} Stanford v. Keenan 
7 p.m. to 10 p.m. Fri. & Sat. (public) 
1:30 p.m to 5:30p.m. Sunday (publiC) 
$1 skate rental-$.75 w1th ID. 
FACILITY AVAILABILITIES $1 skate sharpenrng 
GYMS Rockne Memorial 7:30a.m. to Midnight daily 
INTERHALL DEADLINES 
8 a.m. lo M1dn1ght Saturday Track Meet -Jan. 27 
10 a.m. to 11 p.m Sunday Sw1m Meet-Feb. 1 7 Stepan Center Wrestling Tourney-Feb. 17 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. Friday 
Racqu~tball Open -Feb. 27 
9 a.m. to 1 1 a.m. Saturday 
Baseball-Mar. 10 
9 a.m. to Noon Sunday Sottball (Men-Women)-Mar. 10 ACC Sottball (Grad) -Mar. 10 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. Da1ly 
3occer (Women)-Mar 10 
8 a.m.to 10 p.m. Saturday Tennrs Tourney-Mar 31 1 p.m. to 10 p.m. Sunday 
Golf (Men-Women)-Apr. 14 Track Meet-Apr. 14 
Hours 1n Stepan and ACC will vary due to program commitment. Check Student Activities for Stepan times and the Issue Room for ACC times. 
TELEPHONE NUMBERS 239-7185 Dr. Kelly NVA TRACK 239-5106 R1ch O'Leary-Ciub SportsACC track IS open dally except dunng vars1ty track 239·6100 Student Supervisor NVA practice and days of fieldhouse events. 
239-51 00 Secretary NVA 239-5247 tee R1nk 
WEIGHT ROOM 239-5267 Issue Room ACC 
3 p.m. to 11 p.m. Dally 239-6425 Golf Pro Shop 
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Saturday 239-6321 Pool-Brother LOUIS 
10 a.m. to 5 p.m Sunday 239-6113 Coach Fallon-Men·s Tennis 239·5149 Coach Petro-Women·s Tenms 
COURTS 239-7308 Student ActiVIties 
Handball. Racquetball and Squash courts are ava1lable dunng regular operating hours 1n bolh the ACC and Rockne Memonal. ACC court reservat1ons For Information on Runmng. Aerobics, Sw1mmingshould be made a day 1n advance by calling 239­and Cross-Country Ski programs, call the NVA office 5267. 
at 239-6100. 
Deadlines , etc. 

Sports Writer· 
Inside Interhall 
HOCKEY -In hockey action this past week Keenan scored three quick goals in the last three minutes to edge a tough Cavanaugh squad, 4-3. The game, which featured more than just good play, came to a close with each team having only three players on the ice. Cavanaugh is off this week while Keenan meets Stanford Thursday night. 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL -This past Sunday a quick Farley team 
out-ran and out-rebounded Lyons I, and in the end out-scored them, 
25-14. As Lyons coach Dennis Rischard said,"They were a lot quick­
er than we were and were more agressive on the boards". Coach 
Rischard and his team have a chance to improve their record this 
Sunday against Badin, who also picked up a win in this past Sunday's 
competition. The game is slated for 2:30 and will be played in gym II 
of the ACC. 
CROSS COUNTRY SKI -As reported earlier, the NVA will spon­sor a weekend cross country ski rental at a cost of $12 a weekend. The equipment will be issued from 4 to 5 p.m. on Friday afternoons in the room across from the golfshop and should be returned in the same place Sundays at the same time. 
VOLLEYBALL -There is a mandatory meeting for all the captains ofboth men's and women's volleyball teams this Thursday. The men will meet at 4 p.m. and the women at 4:30. Both meetings will be held in the ACC auditorium. 
TRACK -As reported last week, Non-Varsity Athletics is sponsor­ing an indoor track meet for both men and women. The deadline for entries is tomorrow, Jan. 27, and should be submitted to the NVA office ( C-2 ACC ). 




TEACH IN FLORIDA 
No Experience Necessary 
Immediate opec illg& for gaduales wtlh a Bac::tlekn ~ in Math, Physics. Chemdy, 01 Engineering to teadl OOU"'ee In the science W'd 18Cht~ of Nudear PropUaion. 
Starting ..-y $19,500 ~ inaeuing to $28,000. Must be a U.S. Cdiz8n under 29 )'MIS of •· 30 days paid vacation earned MCh yeer. Free ~ and denial pecbge. ~ dents ben8fils IDa provided. 
Department of the Navy 575 N. PeriMylvanla Street Office 848 OPO I"CC..Mpoll8, IN 48204 317-269-6183 or 1-800-382-9404 
Former Notre Dame teammates Ross Browner (left) ofthe Cin­cinnati Bengals and joe Montana of the San Francisco 49ers embrace after the 49ers' Super Bowl victory. ( APPhoto) 
• • • Upset 
continuedfrom page 8 

The only thing missing was Kool and the Gang. 
"We played so good, it was such a big win," gushed Paxson. "It was great to see the student body in the game, too. They really pulled us through." 
But leave it to the maestro himself to give credit to the students where it was due. 
"They're beautiful," Phelps said. "They got us back in it and they didn't quit on us. 
"We're on a roll now, and we need them. We're only two weeks into the semester, so maybe if we lock the library doors, we'll be all right." 
On this memorable night, when another chapter was penned into the endless anthology of Notre Dame comebacks, the stat sheet 
read thusly: Ron Rowan, 1 7 points; 
Bill Varner, 1 1 points; John Paxson, 
10 points. 

And for the 11.345 in attendance 
-one giant assist. 

IRISH ITEMS: Cheerleader Jody DeGraff, injured in a pregame tumble, suffered only a badly bruised tailbone and will be all right ...From hot to cold: Idaho scored 36 points and shot 82 per­cent in the first half. In the second half, the Vandals shot 33 percent and tallied just 12 points ...Both teams went with the same lineups through­out the entire second half, with four Vandals logging the entire 45 minutes ...The Irish upped their record to 5· I 0, while Idaho fell to I6-2 .. .Idaho finished the game with a 60 percent figure from the field, while Notre Dame hit 53 per­cent. 
MORE TICKETS available for 

MIKHAIL 

BARYSHNIKO 

and The American Ballet Theatre 
Friday Evening, February 5, 1982 
(new date added) Bus leaves 6:15PM from Library Circle; Returns after show Tickets-$26°0 -Bus and Performance Available at Student Union Ticket Office 


Confused 
by this crnzed new phone system? 
_I-he Obset:Vet: 
has new phone numbers, they are: 239-5303·239-5313 239-7471 


Michael Molinelli 


Garry Trudeau 


A5 YaJ KN(){AJ. SIR, ~t.W JlJSTcasN'T(j()AS 8lR A5 fT IJ5f:O 70. IB50NIW', I'M 
WI/.LING 70 MAI<C 7H£ SAC­!?JFICC, 8UT rrs J/J5TIJ'JT filii< TO MY FAMIL-Y. I 
Simon Hospital (Final chapter) 

ACROSS "-a league onward!"
The Daily Crossword 
5 Witch town 10 Nobelist 
in physics 14 Cupid 15 Serkin's 
instrument 16 Concern of 10A 17 Authorized delay 19 Hawaiian goose 20 Canary, for one 21 Turkish flag emblem 23 NewYork team 
UELLO IIE:LLD ... r KNOW TilE~£ HAV£ 8££/<J !X>HE: COf1P/..Aif\Jf5 ABWT MY J>INN£1??.• BUT I'VE 13£/E.N 

Monday's Solution 
©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 1/26/82 . All Rights Reserved 

25 Within: pref. 26 Enraged 30 Certain 
sculptures 34 Terrorists 35 Kind of 
toaster 37 Rule 38 Work on 
copy 39 Atmospheric 
disturbance 40 Appraise 41 Knockout 
count 42 Sweetie 43 Take a swim 44 Declare 46 Most staid 48 Makes lace 


Tuesday,January 26, 1982-page 7 
Campus 
•10 
a.m. · 2 p.m. -lnfonnatlon booth, HOSPICE , Lt:Mans Lobby, Saint Mary's Campu~. Sponsored by Saint Mary's Student Government 

•11:15 
a.m. · 3:30 p.m. -Mini-Course, "Introduction to TSO", I 15 Computing Center 

•12:10 
p.m. -Noontalk, "Abbot Sugcr of St. Denis: French Gothic Art and Archrtecturc", Fr. Richard Conyers. University of Nmre Dame, An· ncnberg Auditorium. All arc welcome 

• 
2:45 p.m. -CPR Technique Taught, South 


Bend Red Cross volunteers will teach ROTC ' cadets, 221 ROTC Building 
•4:20 
p.m.-Lecture, "How Docs Liquid Mixture Change Pha~c When It's Up Against A Wall?", Dr. Carl Franck. University ofVirginia, 1 18 Nieuwland Science Hall, Sponsored by Physics Department 

•7 
p.m. -Wrestling, Notre Dame vs. Eastern Michigan vs. DePauw, Triangular Meet, ACC 

•7. 
9:30 p.m. -Film, "The King Of Hearts", French with English subtitles, Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Social Concerns, .50 ad· mission 

•7. 
9, II p.m. -Film, "Thunderbolt and Lightfoot", Knights of Columbus Hall, Sponsored by Knights <If Columbus, S I admission 

•7 
p.m. -Meeting, Ombudsman Organizational Meeting, 2-D LaFortune, New and old members invited 

• 
., p.m. -Lecture, "Questions and Answers About Public Accounting", Ray Groves. \lanaging Partner of Ernst and Whinncy, CCE Basement. Sponsored by Beta Alpha Psi and :-.IDAA 

•7:30 
p.m. -Presentation, Featuring the direc­tor of HOSPICE and a Saint .Man·'s volunteer. Stapleton Lounge, LcMans Hall, Sai~t \lan·'s Col· 


lege . 
•H 
p.m. -Lecture, "IfTom Pavnc: Call~. Tdl Him Things Arc Not Working Ou"t". Professor Sam Bowles, llnivc:rsity of.Massachusetts. Amherst. 356 Fitzpatrick Hall, Sponsored by Department of Economics 

•H 
p.m. -Lecture, "What is Spirituality; Its .Mc:aning in the Theology ofThomas Aquinas". Rev. Waltc:r Principe, C.S.B., Pontifical Institute: of .Medieval Studic:s, Toronto, Biology Audiwrium. Sponsored hy Department ofTheology 

•H 
p.m. -Anthropologist Night, Senior Bar. All majors and anyone intcrcstl·d in the fic:ld. includ· ing professors, 

•9 
p.m. Meeting, Mardi Gras hall Representatives and any interested clubs or or­ganizations to pick booths for the: M.G. carnival. LaFortune Little: Theatre, Please: come 


Television Tonight 
8:00p.m. 16 Father Murphy 22 Simon and ~imon 28 Happy Days 34 Lift: on Earth 46 Lester Sumrall Teachin!( 
8:30p.m. 28 Laverne and Shirley 46 The Lahayes On family Lik 
9:00p.m. 16 State of the Union Addrt·ss 22 State ofthc Union Address 28 State of the Union Address 34 American Playhouse 46 Today with Lester Sumerall 
10:00p.m. 16 Democratic View 22 Democratic View 28 Three's Company 46 Dwight Thompson 
10:30p.m. 16 NBC News Special 22 Pilot 28 Democratic View 34 Were You There 
ll:OOp.m. 16 NewsCentcr 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 2H 34 The Dick Caven Show 46 Praise the Lord 
• 
.. 

Jeb Cashin 
50 Sly man· oeuver 51 Fishing in­waters 55 Break a promise 59 Group of 
cattle 60 Fifty.fifty 62 Feedthe 
kitty 63 Sublease 64 Chinese: 
pref. 65 Hurl 66 Cuts off 67 Large 
number 
DOWN 1 Cutups 2 Mine, 
inCaen 3 Forsaken 4 Small 
piece 5 Baseball 
and tennis 6 Expose 7 Not of the 
clergy 8 Harden 9 Impetus 10 Animosity 11 Suits to­12 European capital 13 "-a man with... " 
18 Adolescents 22 Road sign 24 Dividing 
membranes 26 "-kick out 
of you" 27 Bumps 28 Metal 
money 29 Entrances 31 List of 
candidates 32 Affirmations 33 "-Adeline" 36 Comedian 
Richard 39 Pioneers 40 Unique 
quality 42 Ugly 43 Harass 45 Chopin 
pieces 47 Breaks open 49-Deadly 
Sins 51 Pronoun 52 Gambling 
town 53 Morsels 54 Cold cuts 
store 56 Maleficent 57 Heredity 
factor 58 Sufficient, to poets 61 Cotton fiber knot 


BUT WHAT DOES THE STUDENT UNION RECORD STORE HAVE FOR ME? 
CHEAPER PRICES PRICES··· Save 24-32% off list prices! MOST CURRENT SINGLES-$6.50 (compare at $8.99 list). Cut-outs...$2.98 to $5.98 
CONVENIENCE ... The NDSU Record Store is located on the Main floor of LaFortune and is open 10-4 PLUS-ordered albums take 1 week only! 
GREAT SELECTION ... Springsteen, Fogelberg, Moody Blues, Stevie Nicks, Cristopher Cross, Pat Benatar, Journey, and many more. 
ALSO ... recorded and blank tapes available. 
SO...for CHEAPER PRICES, MORE CONVENIENCE, and a GREAT SELECTION -:top by the S.U. Record Store today!! .. 


,------------------~------------~---~----~-­
t # 
Snorts 
Rowan stars 
Irish sack Vandals in OT 
"I told the players that ifthey (the
By CHRIS NEEDLES through the eye of a needle. The 
Vandals) wanted to hold the ball for 
Sports Writer Irish were down by 18 points, they ten minutes, we were gonna let
had committed turnover after turn­I over -them," Phelps said, "because the
Just as Notre Dame reached "the in all, it looked as though crowd's gonna react and eventually.. other side of the mountain," as two weeks of solid performances, they were gonna turn it over. AndDigger Phelps put it Saturday, it was when Notre Dame climbed up and that's what I think really helped us."
buried underneath an avalanche by over the 2-9 hump, was going to be Lo and behold, the Irish ran off an­
Idaho in last night's first half. To the blown away in just 40 minutes of ac­other 10-point surge, culminated by
tune of94 percent shooting at one tion. 
two Rowan free throws, to tie the
point. But then a funny thing happened. g;~me at 42 with 5:35 left. Then
But leave it to the mountain boy Idaho missed a shot. 
Iuaho hit two straight buckets, andhimself, Ron Rowan, to dig the Irish Never has one errant shot so visions of another near miss (a laout of an 18-point deficit and lead reversed the momentum ofa basket­Villanova) danced in the heads ofND to a marvelous 50-48 overtime ball game. The sellout crowd, Irish fans. 
upset ofthe 11th-ranked Vandals last knowing a rare occurrence when it But thanks to the magic of John
night at the ACC. sees one, roared its approval. And Paxson, and also two missed Idaho
Rowan, a freshman forward who roared some more. 
free throws, Notre Dame forced thehails from the hills of western Penn­With a "sixth man" on their side, extra five minutes.
sylvania, paced the Irish with I 7 the Irish went on a 10-point spree of Paxson hit a short baseline jumperpoints offthe bench, including three their own, including two buckets by with :08 left to tie the game at 46,key free throws in the extra session, guard John Paxson, and closed to 
then stole the outlet pass and called
to cap another of Notre Dame's within ten points at the half. The time out in one motion with :03left.
patented comebacks. Vandals were down to "only" 82 The Irish set up a play for Varner but
-Just where last night's victory' percent, but that was falling as his 25-footer at the buzzer hit theranks in the annals ofIrish basketball quickly as South Bend's wind chill. 
back of the iron and bounced away.
history is not certain. A jubilant "I think they got too hot too Thanks to Rowan's free throws,Phelps tried to put it in perspective quickly," said Phelps. 
Notre Dame looked golden with a
after the game. "We tried not to think about it too 49-46 lead and only :48 remaining.
"I thought the Marquette win a much," Paxson said. "The coaches Idaho's Brian Kellerman ( 18 points
few years ago (when the Irish came assured us that sooner or later they to take game scoring honors) hit a
back from a 14-point halftime deficit were gonna start missing. We kept gift layup, and then teammate Ken
to beat the No. I Warriors) was a our zone packed in, and it finally Owens ( 12 points) stole the in­
great comeback," said Phelps. "But paid off." 
bounds pass and threatened to spoil
this is right up there with the best of No arguments here. In the final 32 the party.
them." minutes of the game, Idaho shot just But Varner came out of nowhere
Needless to say, things were I 0 for 25 (only 6 of 18 in the second to reject Owens' layup attempt, and
looking pretty dismal for the irish in half) and scored only 20 points. The eventually ended up on the foul linethe first half. Idaho surged like a defense rests its case. 
to put the game away.
runaway Amtrak to a 28-10 ad­Meanwhile, the Irish were He didn't.
vantage, thanks to some uncon­clawing slowly but surely back into Varner made only one out of two
scious field goal shooting. contention. It was still a I0-point and the Vandals had an opportunity
With 7:32 left in the first half, the Vandal lead ( 42-32) with 13 to force a second overtime. TheyVandals had missed just one of their minutes left when Coach Don Mon­went w their ace Kellerman, who.. first IS shots in the game. Yes, that's son made a crucial (and wrong) dec­was 7-of-8 in the first half but only
94 percent. "That's even great from sion. With his squad controlling the 2-of-6 after halftime. His 15-footer
the foul line," commented forward game's tempo, Monson went to a hit the front ofthe iron, Rowan (who
Bill Varner. delay offense to run some time off else?) rebounded, and the celebra­
The Vandals not only could throw the clock. tion began.
the ball in the ocean, as the saying Digger Phelps began licking his 
goes, but they threatened to shoot it chops. See UPSET,page 6 
You've done it again 
Well, Notre Dame, you did it again. 
In the past, things haven't always been this way. During the good times, the ACC was packed for match­ups with the likes of UCLA, DePaul, Marquette and San 
Francisco. 
But during the good times, more often than not, the building echoed in emptiness for games against teams like Brown, Canisius, Montana State and Cal-Poly Pomona. You stood up. 

Now, in what could easily be called "the bad times," And you stayed on your feet for the rest of the game. the South Dome of the ACC has been filled for every Notre Dame scored ten straight points, prompting game. Qespite the brutal cold and the dismal record, .'VIonson to call a timeout. But it was too late. Phelps Irish fans have come to the ballgames. decided then that the Irish could play man-to-man with 
There have been no repeats of the embarassing Fair­the nation's eleventh-ranked team. He was right, but he field incident, when students cheered for the other had an ace in the hole. team. There have been no half-empty houses, when the The infamous "sixth man," whose exploits have un­
bleachers might just as well be folded up. . justifiably been exaggerated since the infamous upset of 
A week and a half ago, the worst basketball slump in San Francisco in March of 1977, made the difference the ten years here reached its lowest point. Burdened with rest of the way. a 2-9 record, Notre Dame was actually down by I 0 "I don't like to make excuses," Monson told repor­points to a Davidson team that was mediocre at best. ters, "but the crowd made a difference. When our guys 
It was at that point that the students came to life. went to the line down the stretch, they were definitely Digger Phelps got it started with a couple of technical distracted. fouls, and Ron Rowan put the finishing touches on it "I'd like to play these guys in my bulding. We get with 13 points. But the students sustained the momen· crowds, but ... " 
tum that has yet to subside. He trailed off before finishing, but his intent was 
Last night the fans, Phelps and Rowan topped that feat clear. with a win that somehow seems to make all the losing "But not like this," the bewildered shake of his head worth it. said it all. 
Phelps said all there was to say about last night's upset Phelps was jubilant in the press room when it was 
when he met with the press afterward. over, but he became serious quickly when asked about "This is a special crowd." the crowd and the role it played in the win. Pause. "I just hope they show up again Wednesday night," "The best." he told reporters. "After beating Maryland and Idaho, It seemed that the Vandals would run away with the we don't want a let down. The students have been un­
house midway through the first half. With 7:32 to go, believeable through all this, and I just hope they stay Gordie Herbert hit an off-balance jumper from 17 feet, with us. the 14th basket in I 5 attempts for Idaho. Phelps slowly "We need them every step ofthe way from here on in, 
rose from the patented crouch, walked down the court as much against Maine 'lis we will against anybody else." toward the Idaho bench, and yelled at Vandal coach In years past, there would almost certainly be a large Don Monson. number ofempty seats for a game like tomorrow's with 
"Don't you guys ever miss?" the unheralded Black Bears. But this is a new year. Stu­But the next time down the floor they did just that. dents believe in this team, as they have in no other since It was at that point that the students made their big-any of them have been here. 
gest contribution to Notre Dame sports in two years. Yeah, Notre Dame, you did it again. 
.. 
Tuesday, january 26, 1982-page 8 
...""'~ 
Ron Rowan pumps in two ofbis team-high 17points during last 
night's victory  over  11th-ranked Idaho.  The Irish  overcame a  
phenomenal  first-half  Vandal  shooting  display  to  win  in  
overtime. (Photo by Rachel Blount).  

T ripucka adjusts to NBA, Pistons 
"My senior year, I did a little bit By WILL HARE more ball-handling thah usual. That Sports Writer helped a little bit," he says. "Then 
over the summer, I got to play most­Kelly Tripucka would have loved 
ly guard when I played in the sum­to play basketball in his home state 
mer leagues. I think that really of New Jersey. But when the New 
helped me a lot. So, I was able to Jersey Nets had the tenth pick in the make the transition." first round of the 1981 NBA draft, 
Tripucka, along with heralded they ignored the ex-Notre Dame 
rookie teammate Isiah Thomas, has great and chose another small for­
brought a winning attitude into the ward, Albert King. Apparently 
Motor City. "We're here to con­Coach Larry Brown did not want the 
tribute to the team and make the Nets to select anyone who played 
team better," he adds. "We have for his enemy, Digger Phelps. 
been accepted really well. The other Two picks later, Tripucka was 
guys are happy for us because selected by the Detroit Pistons. 
they've been part of the losing Since then he has been a surprise to 
seasons." Brown and other critics throughout 
Tripucka has been a success not the NBA world with his outstanding 
only because ofa good attitude, but play. also because of sheer hustle. "Kelly Tripucka is currently ranked 
is my blue-collar worker," says second among rookies with a 20.2 
Detroit coach Scotty Robertson. scoring average. He has scored in 
"He rolls up his sleeves and digs double figures in 40 of 43 games 
in. He's the kind of player who skins including a 38-point performance 
his knees and arms at the beginning against Julius Erving and the 
of the season and they stay that way Philadelphia 76ers. Kelly has been 
until the season is over," Robertson the top point man for the Pistons in 
points out. "Ifthere is a loose ball on 12 games and is averaging nearly 38 
the floor, Tripucka will grab it." minutes a contest, which is unheard 
At 6-6, Tripucka is matching upoffor rookies in the NBA. 
against a bigger forward almost For a guy who looked as if he had every night. Yet Kelly has adjusted.
indigestion when he was selected by "The competition is tremendousthe Pistons, Tripucka has adjusted to every night. The players are morethe Detroit situation quite well. "I physical," Tripucka says.
was just disappointed because I "The players are faster and it'swanted to play back home. I hadn't more of a high scoring game. Buttalked to anybody from Detroit, so it there is defense, which most peoplewas a totally unexpected thing," says don't realize," says Tripucka. "ForTripucka. > me, I can't go inside as much. The"They hadn't had a winning players are bigger and they blockprogram and I wasn't used to that," more shots."
he continues. "But now I'm in a 
situation where I'm starting, I'm The Pistons have fallen on hard 
playing a lot of minutes, doing well times in January. Detroit is now in 
and it makes everything different." fifth place in the NBA's Central Divi­
At the time of the draft, Tripucka sion, but Tripucka remains optimis­
was criticized by scouts for being tic. "I think we have a chance to 
too slow for the NBA. However, he sneak in there. I think if we can win 
has even played in the backcourt on 38-40 games, we should be in the 
several <iccasions this season. playoffs," he says. 




