..--------~----~--~--~------------~-----.--~-------------------------------------------­
• . Rush-page 10
• 

VOL. XVII, NO. 49 the independent ~tmknt new~papt-r ~cr\ing notre dame and !->aint mary·!-> MONDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1982 
PACE report targets student needs 
By CAROL CAMP 
Senior StaffReporter 
Notre Dame Provost Timothy O'Meara said that students will be pleased with the attention their needs receive in the final version of the Priorities and Commitments for Excellence (PACE) report, to be released later this week. 
Of the 16 committees involved in drafting the report, six included one or two· student representatives. In the chapter dealing with student life, O'Meara specifically cited one of the subtopics entitled "Student Life: A Special Priority," by commenting, "How can you possibly look at that and say that we haven't made an ef· fort to address student needs in this report?" The report, which analyzes vari01..1s aspects of campus life, will be formally released prior 
1.0 the Board ofTrust'ees meeting on Nov. 11·12. 
O'Meara explained that report's release has been delayed because of the problem in "getting 24 people together to meet at one time." In this statement, O'Meara referred to the difficulty in convening regular meetings of the 24 administrators, faculty members, and students who were involved in compiling the PACE report. 
Sixteen committees explored various aspects of campus life and accumulated the background research required for the report. These committees examined areas ranging from academics to athletics, alumni relations, and student affairs. 
Committee members received in· put for their reports by making visitations and by meeting with professors in specific academic areas. After gathering this informa­
tion,  the  entire  PACE  committee  
met  and  edited  the  individual  
reports.  

After more than a year of these 
meetings, the final draft ofthe PACE report is, ac-cording to O'Meara, "in the polishing stages." 
The final version of the PACE report is 50 pages in length and is divided into six topical areas: the mission of the University, teaching, faculty, the student body, support systems (i.e., alumni relations), and a concluding summary. 
These specific topics were in­cluded in the report because, in O'Meara's view. they "represented every aspect of the University." He added, "There has never been an operation on this campus that has 
received as much input as the PACE 
report." 
Following a final committee 
meeting to complete its "polishing 
up," the long-awaited PACE report 
will be presented to the Board of 
Trustees at their meeting later this 
week for consideration. 

large crowd ofstudents greeted thefootball team following the team's upset ofthe nation's number one team. (Photo by Glenn Kane) 

General contradicts massacre testimony 
JERUSALEM, (AP) ~ The Israeli military commander in Beirut indi­cated in testimony yesterday that Lebanese Christian militias were allowed to continue their sweep through Palestinian refugee camps long after suspicions of a slaughter had surfaced. 
Brig. Gen. Amos Yaron's testifying before a special Israeli commission investigating the Sept. 16-18 mas­sacre at the Sabra and Chatilla camps contradicted Defense Minister Ariel Sharon's account. 
Yaron said he began receiving vague, fragmentary indications that something was amiss within hours of the Christians' entry into the camps in the afternoon ofSept. 16. 
But he implied under questioning that permission to continue the slaughter was given by ChiefofStaff Lt. Gen. Raphael Eytan at a_ meeting at 4 p.m. on Sept. 17 in Beirut. 
Asked whether anyone spoke to the militiamen about how the opera­tion was going, Yaron replied, "I believe the chief of staff even said some nice words to them about it." 
Sharon told the commission Oct. 25 that the sweep of the refugee camps was ordered stopped im­mediately at midday on Sept. 1 7 ­four hours before the meeting. 
He said the militias, sent in to fer­ret out fugitive Palestine Liberation Organization guerrillas, were allowed to stay until 5 a.m. on Sept. 18 only to give them time to regroup and withdraw. 
Yaron, however, said Eytan told the meeting that "the men of the 
ForPlunge 




Workshop prepares students 
ByPATSAIN 
News Staff 
Urban plunge volunteers met yes­terday in the library auditorium for a workshop designed to orient stu­dents to the plunge. 
Angelo Capozzi, in charge of the workshop, began by noting that "We are faced with challenging urban problems in the cities," and that there is a lack of first-hand knowledge of these problems. 
The purpose ofthe plunge, Capoz­
zi said, is to give students an in­
dividual awareness of the problems 
that exist in the inner city. 
The next speaker, Father Don McNeil, explained how the idea of the Urban Plunge began in 1967 when Monsignor John ). Egan invited a group of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students to do a "plunge" in his parish in Chicago. Since then, there have been 12 Ur­ban Plunges involving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. 
McNeil, who is the director of the 
Center for Social Concerns, went on 
to say that "plunging" is basically 
j •mping out of one's normal path, going to an "inner city," and then standing, loving people who work returning and reflecting on one's ex­with the poor. periences. The reflection can be "You are privileged to be able to with a small group ofother plungers, go on an llrban Plunge," Egan said. follow-up courses, or even a sum­"You are going to come in contact mer service project. with people who are giving it their 

Egan, director of the Center for all...giving of the widow's might." Pastoral and Social Ministry, gave a Speaking of his experiences with talk entitled "The Church in the the poor, Egan stated that "I thought City." He spoke about the many out-I was going (to the poor) to bring 
something -love, help,...but Jesus was there long before me. Love was all over the place!" 
The t:rban Plunge will not allow students to shelter or feed people, Egan said. Instead, it will make one more responsive and open to the needs of the poor. "Hopefully the Urban Plunge will make you care a little more," Egan said, "to help you change your profession around to bring justice and to bring peace." 
In his closing remarks, Egan ~aid "I hope the ripple effect of these twC'l days will not only extend down through your life, but will also ex· tend to others." 
A slide show followed, showing shots of previous plunger's ex-
See ROSIE AND MARLA page 7


Lebanese Forces will continue mopping-up operations in the empty camps south ofthe Fakhahani Quarter until Sept. 18 at 0500." 
He said it was assumed the camps were empty because the civilians would most likely have fled when the militia operation began. 
"At 11 o'clock we ordered a halt, and after this meeting (at 4 p.m.) with the chiefofstaffwe continued," said Yaron. 
"Does that mean you left the meeting with the feeling that the operation was resuming?" Supreme Court Justice Aharon Barak asked Yaron. 
"Until Saturday morning," Yaron 

replied. 
Yaron insisted he had no idea a massacre of hundreds of men, women and children had taken place until he heard about it from reporters. 
But he indicated that from the 

outset there were fears there could 
be atrocities, because he warned the militiamen in blunt terms "not to 
harm the population or people who surrender." He said the militiamen promised to behave themselves. 
Maj. Gen. ,'\mir Orory, Israeli com· mander in Lebanon, has testified he also gained the impression at the 4 
p.m. meeting that the operation might continue, but Yaron's came much closer to saying it was specifi­cally ordered. 
Prime Minister Menachem Begin is to testify in an open session today 
that  will  be  broadcast  by  Israel  
Radio.  
The  prime  minister,  who  has  

denied Israel had any responsibility 
for the massacre, is expected to be questioned on when he learned of the slaughter, and how the decision was made to permit the Lebanese Christian militias into the Pales­tinian camps. 
Two Saint Mary~s women assaulted 
By TONI RUTHERFORD 
StaffReporter 

Two Saint Mary's women were assaulted at knife point outside of McCandless Hall early Friday morning, according to Karen Croake Heisler, Saint Mary's Public Relations Officer. Neither student was injured. 
Heisler reported that the assailant, described as a young black male, stepped from a bush at the side of the building, grabbed one of the victims and forced her to his car in McCandless lot. The other woman fled into the dorm, from where Saint Mary's Security and the SaintJoseph County Police Department were notified. 
The car, identified as a green Dodge Charger with a stickshift, was driven from McCandless lot through the Lemans lot. Heisler stated that the victim was able to escape when the car was slowed to negotiate the curve by the west wing of Lemans Hall, between Lemans and O'Laughlin Auditorium, as reported by ·Public Rela­tions. 
Kathleen Rice, Dean ofStudents at Saint Mary's, was notified of the incident later Friday morning. "I would have been notified im­mediately ifeither ofthe women had been injured," said Rice. "I'm just glad they weren't,and I hope nothing like this occurs again." 
Saint Mary's Security was unable to comment on the incident due to administrative policy. 



NeWsBriep 
By The Obserr1er and The Associated Press 
Dr. Drago Kolar, distinguished visiting professor of metalurgical engineering and materials science at Notre Dame, will hold the Keating-Crawford Chair during his one-year stay. Kolar received his bachelor's and Ph.D degrees from the University of Yugoslavia in Ljubljana. Upon leaving Notre Dame he will return to his professorship at Institute). Stefan, jamova, Yugoslavia. Kolar's teaching experiences include courses in technical ceramics and sil­icates, and courses in electronic components for electrical engineer­ing faculty. His research work concerns the properties and high temperature synthesis of ceramic materials, with special interest in the synthesis and characterization of polycrystalline materials having special electrical properties. The Keating-Crawford Chair memorializes Bernard J. Keating, the late founder and the first presi­dent of Standard Tool and Supply Manufacturing Co. of Lyndhurst, 
N.J. -The Observer 

Notre Dame will be among the 375 univer­sities and colleges across the nation participating in the second an­nual Convocation on Solutions to the Nuclear Arms Race on Tues., Nov. 11. The convocation is nationally sponsored by several or­ganizations, including the Union of Concerned Scientists, the Lawyers Alliance for Nuclear Arms Control, Physicians for Social Responsibility, and the United Campuses to Prevent Nuclear War. Notre Dame also was a participant in last year's Convocation, in which less than half this year's institutions took part. Convocation events at Notre Dame will begin with a Mass for peace at 11:30 a.m. in Sacred Heart Church, Father Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., will be the chiefcelebrant. At 4:15p.m., William 0. McLean, concurrent associate professor and assistant dean ofthe University's Law School, will lecture in Room 101 of the Law School on his participation in the original Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty (SALT) talks as a naval member ofthe American delegation. Everett I. Mendelsohn, profes­sor of the history of science at Harvard University, will deliver the main lecture of the day at 7:30 p.m. in the Memorial Library Auditorium. Mendelsohn, in addition to his international credentials as a historian of science, has been active in several peace-making enterprises, most notably those of the American Friends Service Committee. In 1979, he led a delegation of persons interested in disarmament and arms control to the Soviet Union for intensive dis­cussions with government leaders. He has advised members of the United States Senate and the State Department on the prospects for SALT II ratification, Eurostrategic weaponry, and other arms control controversies. -The Observer 
The Statue ofLibertywill be closed to tourists for up to a year beginning in 1984 while workers repair its rusting framework and perhaps remove its raised arm and give it an over­haul. "We'll try to keep it closed for as short a time as possible," said David Moffitt, National Park Service superintendent of the statue at the gateway to New York harbor. He said the statue, which will be 100 years old in 1986, is "literally falling apart," but there is no dan­ger to tourists. The statue's $25 million renovation will begin next fall and take two years. Tourists will be unable to visit until sometime in 1984. -AP 
Reserve Officers Training Corps enroll­ment at Harvard is at its highest level since the program was forced offcampus in 1969, and money is partly the reason. The ROTC stu­dents get no college credit for the classes. But the 72 Harvard under­graduates -up from 49 two years ago -do get government aid toward tuition. "Part ofit is that tuition funding is getting more dif­ficult, but it's also become more socially acceptable to be in the ROTC, more than it was in the early '70s," said Maj. Stephen Wallace, an Air Force instructor, in explaining the upswing in interest in ROTC. -AP 
About 110 Cambodians were killed last week in a Vietnamese artillery attack on a village near the border with Cam­bodia, the English-language Bangkok Post reported yesterday. The newspaper said some survivors ofthe alleged attack reported suffer­ing nausea, skin rashes and other symptoms similar to those of ex­posure to toxic bio-chemical weapons known here as "yellow rain." A United Nations team is in Thailand investigating reports that Viet­namese forces are using such weapons in Cambodia. Thai authorities and officials ofinternational organizations were not available yester­day for comment on the alleged attack, which the newspaper said occurred in the village ofSok San, a center ofCambodian resistance against the Vietnamese-installed government of Heng Samrin. -AP 
About 8,000 chili lovers from 32 states gathered at the ghost town ofTerlingua, Texas to sample some ofTexas' best red. Top honors at Saturday's 16th Annual Wick Fowler Memorial World Championship Chili Cookoff went to Tom Skipper of Pasadena, Texas, for his "Ol' Blue Chili." Katherine Schmidt of Kemah, Texas, won second place and Bob Ritchey of Garlanexas, was third. Fowler and other chili lovers traveled to this abandoned mercury mining town in southwest 16 years ago for the first chili cookoff. Now the event includes country music, tortilla throwing and wet T-shirt contests. Frank X. Tolbert, a Dallas restaurant owner, said some revelers apparently had too much fun. "justice of the Peace Sadiejo McKinney, the law south ofCalamity Creek, reported that we had three arrests," he said. "Two for fighting and one for mooning." -AP 
Partly sunny and mild today. High in the upper 50s. Partly cloudy and cool tonight. Low in the mid 40s. Mostly cloudy and continued cool tomorrow. High in the mid to upper 50s. -AP 
. -~ 

Monday, November 8, 1982-page 2 
The Human Cost 
"Sixteen hours ago an American airplane dropped one bomb on Hiroshima...The force from which the sun draws its power has been loosed against those who brought war to the Far East." -President Harry S. Truman, Aug. 6, 1945 
With those words President Tman ushered in the atomic age, an age offear and uncertainty. It was a while before the massive human suffering that took place at Hiroslhima and Nagasaki could be totaled up; but when it was, people found it profoundly disturbing. 
The natural reaction to the horror stories was to push them to the back ofthe mind, forget and go on with the· details of life. While it is a natural reaction, it is a dan­gerous one. The human destruction that remained after the bombs were dropped 3 7 years ago is an important reminder of what the arms race is truly all about. To forget brings man closer to acceptance ofnuclear arms, and closer to another conflagration. 
The potential for human suffering is forgotten as the arms race is discussed in more antiseptic terms...counterforce, countervalue, throw weight, tactical weapons, strategic weapons, etc. 
This talk is peppered with numbers, such as the 
amount of weapons, the amount of warheads on those 
weapons and the window of 
vulnerability. 
Perhaps the most useless figures are that the United States and Russia today have the equivalent of one mil­lion Hiroshima bombs, or four tons of TNT for every man, woman and child on Earth. Those numbers are too abstract... no one can im­agine the power contained there, let alone the human suffering that would take plaet if some of those arms were u t sed. 

Through all of this the human cost is the bottom line. Beneath all of the strategies and numbers lies the undeniable fact that man will suffer immensely if nuclear weapons are ever used. Yet even that statement is inadequate to decribe what lies ahead if nuclear arms become an accepted fact of life. 
The citizens of Hiroshima can say all of this a lot bet­ter than I can. 
Areport issued recently by Common Cause, a lobby­ing group, included interviews with survivors of the blast. Shigeko Sasmori, who was 13 at the time the bomb was dropped on her hometown, said "I feel the reason why I lived -I feel that all the people who died from the atomic bomb-and notJust from the atomic bomb, who died from the war -their spirits are telling me to tell the people who have never experienced war...that I have a mission to tell and show what hap­pened. That's why I lived." 
That sense of mission was seen last spring during Congressional hearings on the Kennedy-Hatfield nuclear freeze proposal when survivors described the effects ofthe bombing at Hiroshima. 
Mitsuo Tomosawa recalled that just after the bomb 
The Observer 

From the Greek..... Design Editor....................J.P. Keyes-Zeus Design Assistant ...... ........ Phaedrus-Pete Layout Staff" ................................ Crito-Tom 
Typesel/ers. . ........... AAAARRRRGGH 
News Editor......................... Dave of Delphi 
Copy Editor................ , ... Kathy the Persian 
Features Layout............)oe the Dionysian 
Editorials Layol4t..... Tim, Chris-Sophists 
Sports Copy Editor ....... .......... Mike-Ares 
Typist .... Monica,( platonically ofcourse) 
ND Day Editor............. Dave the Epicuran 
Photographer ................. Herculean Glenn 
SMC Day Editor. Libby Aphrodite Under-
all 
Guest Appearances..... .. Mike McCaughy, 
Or. David, SoCraticism Shindler, 
The Usual, Zark off' 
The Observer 1 USPS 598 9201 l'i published Monday lhruugh Fnda y and on home toolball Salurdays excepl dunng exam Jnd vacalllln per1uds The Observer 1s published by !he sludenb of Noire Dame and Sa1n1 Marys Col lege Subscnp11ons may be pure nased for $25 per year 1515 per se,neslerJ by wnlmg The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer 15 a ·nember of The AssJJciated Press All repruducl1un nghts are reserved 
Second class poslage pa1d al Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
BUSINESS ... 


You're Needed AllOver the World. 
Ask Peace Corps volunteers why they teach Business Marketing techniques to vegetable farmers in Tonga, Belize and Kenya. Ask Peace Corps volunteers why they invest two years of their lives overseas. They'll probably tell you they want to help people, learn a new language, live in another culture, and gain valuable career experience. Ask them why Peace Corps is the toughest job you'll ever love. 
Register now at the Placement Office for interviews Tues. and Wed, Nov.16 & 17 

PEACE COI\PS 

was dropped, "All through the day, morning to evening, people came walking, and all these people, most of them were naked, some of them you couldn't even recognize whether they were a man or a woman or ­practically all of them were walking with their hands extended -their arms extended, their hands hanging down -and their knees slightly bent, almost on tiptoes. Large blisters on their bodies, with some fluid moving in their blisters. Staring ahead." 
Kimuko Laskey told the committee that after she had crawled to a hospital "three offour doctors got together and cleaned me up, took the pieces of glass out, and they decided to sew up my face. Then they warned me, 'We don't have anesthetic and no special equipment.' I told them just to leave me alone. But they said ifl didn't 
let them do it, I would be sorry afterward if I survived. So they started sewing my face with a very heavy needle. I was scream­ing all the time, asking them to kill me or to please leave me alone..." 
· · ."'IJf.. .M·d~urblng as this tes­timony is, these are recollec­tions that should not be forgotten. George San­tayana's adage that "Those who cannot remember tHe past are condemned to repeat it" holds true. If the horrors of nuclear war are forgotten, nuclear war becomes more probable. 
MiKe Ry<m The talk of the possibility of 
a limited nuclear war in Europe and the drawing up ·of civil defense evacuation plans should be frightening, not reassuring develop­ments. 
In addition to the testimony of survivors, other reminders are possible. Perhaps the leaders of the world should gather at a summit meeting once a year at Hiroshima or Nagasaki to recall the hell that ripped through those cities in August, 1945. It also has been suggested that world leaders assemble to observe the detonation ofa nuclear bomb, to see for themselves the fury that underlies their global chess game. 
Ifnothing else, leaders, as well as responsible citizens must keep in mind the human factor in that chess game. · The human suffering in the event ofa nuclear war is all but unimaginable save for the testimony ofthejapanese survivors. That testimony is extremely important, for it givessome hint ofthe incredible human cost ofnuclear war. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views ofthe author, and do not necessarily represent the views ofThe Observer or its editorial board. 

-------~ 

_1_'h_e_O_b_s_e_rv_e_r________________________r.____M_onday, Nove;be;S,-1982-=_--p-age 3-· 

LelandPrussia, Chairman ofthe Board ofBank ofAmerica Cor­poration, discussed Reaganomics Friday afternoon at the Library Auditorium. See story below. (Photo by Glenn Kane) 
Bankerfocuses on effects ofReaganomics 

Illinois Republican Governor james Friday. With 100 percent of unoffiCial totals in, 

Watergate reunion 
Nixon protnotes latest book 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Former President Richard Nixon hob­nobbed at a soiree with old staffers and plugged his latest book on the talk show circuit this weekend, in a rare break from his post-Watergate seclusion. 
The Saturday get-together was held in honor of the I Oth anniver­sary this week of Nixon's re­election, which garnered the biggest presidential electoral vote landslide in American history. 
In attendance: Nixon's former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger, former Attorney General John Mitchell, former press secretary Ron Ziegler and counselor Charles Col­son, among others. 
The 37th president of the Urtited States, the only chief executive to resign from office, refused to talk to reporiers at the reunion dinner with his former aides. But Nixon was more chatty in his talk show ap­pearances, where he discussed his latest book, "Leaders," and offered President Reagan advice on a variety ofdomestic and foreign topics. 
On the Middle East, Nixon sharply criticized Israel's decision to in­crease its settlements on the West Bank. 
"Those settlements are inconsis­tent with (U.N.) Resolution 242," he said in an interview broadcast Satur­day on the Cable News Network. "They're inconsistent with the whole spirit ofthe Camp David busi­ness ... They cannot be tolerated.... 
"In the interest of Israel and their future, we've got to do something very positive and very direct with regard to Begin on this particular issue," said Nixon, although he did 
!!"·" 
not say what steps he would take if he were still president. 
Turning to the election, Nixon discounted the Democratic gains scored last Tuesday. 
"It was a defeat. We would have preferred that it had been better. But with 10 percent unemployment, the Democrats expected, and perhaps rightfully so, that they would be having a great victory. But instead of getting a knockout, all they got was a split decision." 
Following the interview, Nixon reportedly carried the theme of his book on international figures, "Leaders," to the reunion dinner at a Washington hotel ballroom later that night. The guest list read like a 


600 at SMC fast forWorld Hunger 
By Gail Kraft 
News Staff 
This week over 600 Saint Mary students have agreed to forfeit their meals on Nov. 18 to support the "Fast for a World Harvest" which marks a key event in Hunger Aware­ness Week. 
The fast will begin Wednesday evening with a prayer service at 9 in the Saint Mary's Club House. During meals on Thursday group meetings focusing on world hunger will be held as well as additional prayer services. The fast will conclude Thursday evening with mass and a 
Who's Who from the Watergate era. Reporters were barred from the gala. But asked afterward what 
Nixon said at the dinner, his brother Edward replied: "He was looking at the future, as he has been doing late­ly a great deal. He expressed a hope for the people who were here that there are a lot of us who can still have a role ofleadership." 
Those closest to Nixon, presiden­tial chiefofstaff H.R. Haldeman, and chiefdomestic adviserJohn Ehrlich­man, did not attend. But Kissinger arrived after the meal to mingle with Ziegler, Colson, Nixon's longtime secretary Rose Mary Woods and others. 
light dinner ofsoup and bread. 
Observance of the fast will be not only by residential students but by the staff, administration, faculty as well as nonresidential students. 
Students may sign up to par­ticipate in the fast until Nov. 9 in the campus ministry office, at hall 
meetings, during meals and at liturgies. SAGA's part in the Fast will be a monetary donation to the Saint 
Mary's Hunger Coalition who will in turn distribute the money to Oxfam America, local food banks and the Sisters of the Holy Cross. 

Thompson, left, and his running mate George Thompson holds more than a 9,000 vote leadover Ryan clasp hands in a victory salute at Democratic challenger Adlai Stevenson III. ( AP) Thompson's campaign headquarters in Chicago 
Coach Faust. 


his sta·tt 
and the MfiG"IFICE"T ·sz FIGHTI"G IRISH! 
..~.Q_........R.I..$.H........B.~.AI.,...P..E..r.t..rt.....~I..~I 
By CANDACE GRIFFIN 
News Staff 
A leading finanial analyst focused on Reaganomics in a lecture Friday asking the rhetorical question: "Will the Gipper have another chance?" 
Leland S. Prussia, Chairman of the Board of Bank of America Corpora­tion, spoke on global banking at the Library· Auditorium, recreating post World War II events and the regrowth period to the present. 
One of the main points discussed was that of unemployment. Prussia stated in jest that Reagan admits being responsible for only two who are unemployed: "Richard Allen and Alexander Haig." 
Another topic discussed was the effects of world trade, particularly Opec Oil, to the economy. The oil crises of 1973 ad 1979 sent bursts of inflation which demanded govern­ment response, Prussia said. Thus, many countries have kept foreign goods out of their economies -a tactic which has proved self­destructive. 
llltt?rt?§tt?cllll tctl<l11" ct c::lct§§ l11 13clIIr()()Ill Uc111£i11"J 

It's still not too late to sign up for the ballroom 
dance class which is being held on St. Mary' Campus in the Regina Hall Lounge Basemen from 8:30p.m. to 10 p.m. 


e Next scheduled Class Date is Nov. 10. 
eSign up now in the SMC Student Activities Office Ph. 284-4561 
eJust in time to get you ready for the holiday dances. 

eotfer limited to NO -SMC students only 
•This class will be taught by Ray Sexton 
from Indianapolis and the total cost is only $25 for 5 weeks. 
Prussia also made key points about the positive and negative aspects of Reaganomics. He reviewed the promised programs that put Reagan in office and noted that twenty months later our 
economy is in the midst of reces­sion. 
Prussia admilted there is "no quick fix" for the problems. He believes that a way to start would be 
by restructuring our current tax program, focusing on industries on incline. He would then move to restructure the social security and other health programs. Also, he 
would cut back on defense spending and stimulate publlic and private spending. 
He remained after his lecture to answer ques~ions and was presented 
a plaque of appreciation from Ellery Lindquist ofthe Finance Club. An in­formal reception followed at the Morris Inn. 
----~-~~~----­
The Observer 

Pope john Paul ll sits under an artistic figure of a madonna Friday evening on an altarspecially builtfor a massfor thepeople ofGranada in southern Spain. It was the Pope's sixth day in Spain in a visit which i~ to last ten days. ( AP) 
By SANDY VALENZUELA 
StaffReporter 

High school seniors gained an inside view of Saint Mary's College 
during  yesterday's  Fall  Day  on  
Campus.  
One-hundred  and  fifty  
prospective  Saint  Mary's  students  

from across the midwest visited the campus for the second annual Fall Day. The purpose of Fall Day is to familarize high school seniors and their parents with Saint Mary's through programs that focus on dif­ferent facets of the college ex­perience. 
The seniors were welcomed in the early morning and given a chance to see the school as its stu­dents see it. Personalized tours of the campus were available, and stu­dems and their parents had the op­portunity to discuss their concerns about college with members of the faculty and administration. 
"A chance to see what you can't read about at Saint Mary's," said joan Imler, Chairman of Fall Day on Campus, is the reason Fall Day has become an annual event. 
Angie VanOverbergh, a prospective student from South Bend, decribed her Fall Day ex­perience as "an opportunity to look around and know the people a little bit." 
The day began with registration and an informal get-together in LeMans Hall. A mass in the Church of Loretto came next. Then the seniors were formally welcomed in Carroll Hall by Dr. William Hickey, Vice President and Dean of Faculty; Mary Ann Rowan, Director of Admission; and Mary Beth Dvorak, 1980 graduate. An Admissions and Career 
Monday, November 8, 1982 -page 4 

Fall day 

High school seniors visit SMC 
Development Workshop also was held. 
After lunch, students had the op­portunity to meet with the academic departments, abroad program representatives, campus ministry, residence life and student activities, financial aid, and the admissions staff. 
Later in the day, sports exhibi­tions were presented in Angela Ath­letic Facility. Art demonstrations were held in Moreau Hall. 
New activities for Fall Day in­cluded "Involvement at Saint Mary's" which helped students who had attended the Spring Day last semester in their particular major. The day concluded with an informal question and answer period for parents with representatives from admissions and current students. 
Their daughters, meanwhile, at­tended a Student Life presentation with Mary Anne O'Donnell, Director of Student Activities, and a panel of current students. 
The event helped students in their decisions to attend Saint ,\1ary's. A senior from Mother McCauley High School in Illinois said,"! had never been here before, so I got to see the school. I liked walking around and looking at the school...If I get ac­cepted, I'll probably go here be­cause I liked it." 
Students received notification of Fall Day from Office of Admission mailings and through recruitment at area high schools. Students express­ing an interest in Saint Mary's were encouraged to come. 
According to Imler, more stu­dents attended Fall Day this year than last. "A lot of times this was their initial contact with the school," she said. Fall Day is designed for seniors. A Spring Day is held for juniors during the second semester. 
"A lot of times the reason for deciding on a college is the campus visit," reports Imler. After all, she ex­plains, "seeing is believing." 

Soviets celebrate Revolution Day 
MOSCOW, (AP)-The Soviet Un­ion rolled a brawny display of military hardware through Red Square yesterday in Revolution Day festivities President Leonid I. Brezhnev said should "cool the hot heads of some imperialist politicians." 
Soviet generals displayed two weapons never before seen at the parade -an improved surface-to-air missile and an updated armored per­


® 

Throbbing head? Quaking body? Has Monday dealt another crushing blow? Revive yourself with a well· rounded meal from Domino's Pizza We'll help smooth the wrinkles out of your day. 
@)1982 Domino's Pizza. Inc. 
Fast ... FrE!e Delivery 
Call us. 277·2151 
1835 South Bend Ave. 
Free 30 minute piz.~a delivery and 10 mi1nute pick·up service. 
Hours: 11 :00-1 :00 Sun. -Thurs. 
11 :00 • 2:00 Fri. & Sat. 
Our drivers carry less than $1 0.00. Limited delivery area~ 
r~~-------------,
I1 ;  Only$6.99  I1 ;  
I 1 1 I  Good Mondays Only... Only $6.99 for a 16" 1-item pizza plus 4 Colas (a $2.19 value). Tax not included. One coupon per pizza. Expires: 1 2/31 /82  II I 1I I  
Fast. Free Delivery 1835 South Bend Ave. Phone: 277-2151  I I I I  
llh,~~"  i  


~---------------~ 
sonnel carrier reportedly in use against Moslem insurgents in Af­ghanistan. Hundreds of thousands of Muscovites jammed the cob­blestone square to watch the show in 21-degree cold and brilliant sun­shine. 
Defense Minister Marshal Dmitri 
F. Ustinov, 74, presided over the military ceremonies marking the 65th anniversary of the Bolshevik Revolution, which led to the found­ing of the Soviet state. He stood beside the 75-year-old Brezhnev atop the red marble mausoleum of revolutionary leader Vladimir I. Lenin. 
Ustinov and Brezhnev both denounced the United States in tough speeches that showed no sign of easing the Kremlin's anti­American rhetoric. 
Addressing troops massed on Red Square, Ustinov said the Soviet Un­ion is aware that "The aggressive forces of imperialism, primarily the U.S.A., have led the intensity of their military preparations to an unusual level, are fanning the flames of armed conflicts in different regions of the world, and irresponsibly are threatening 1 to • . <use nuclear weapons." 
Afterwards, at a Kremlin recep­tion attended by U.S. Ambassador Arthur A. Hartman, Brezhnev warned: 
"We shall do the utmost to see to it that those who like military ventures should never take the land of the Soviets unaware, that the potential aggressor should know: a crushing retaliatory strike will in­evitably be in for him. Our might and vigilance will cool, I think, the hot heads of some imperialist politicians." 
Neither Brezhnev or Ustinov ex­plicitly mentioned President Reagan in their remarks, however. They also reiterated Soviet intentions to seek negotiated arms reductions. 
Brezhnev said, "The Soviet Union will continue persistently fighting for detente, for disarmament. We shall be building up efforts to avert the threat ofa nuclear war." 
The government newspaper In­vestia also printed a message Reagan sent to Brezhnev, which read: "On the occasion of the national holiday of the Soviet Union, I would like to convey congratulations on behalfof the American people to the people ot the Soviet Union. The Un~ted States will continue to work in the name ofpeace and relations with the Soviet Union, which are based on 
See WEAPONS page S 

The Observer Monday, November 8, 1982 -page 5 
On student attitudes 
More Society sponsors survey 
ByJOE INCARDONA 
News Staff 
One of the common complaints Notre Dame students make is that they are rarely asked for their opinions about issues that affect their academic and social lives. This is one of the reasons that the Notre Dame chapter of the Thomas More Society is sponsoring a student at­titude survey as part of a larger worldwide survey conducted by the Institute for University Cooperation. 
This survey, known as UNIV '83, is part of an annual series of surveys the Institute distributes to 450 uni­versities in 40 countries through volunteer organizations like the Thomas More Society. According to More Society President Gerald Wegemer, the survey is designed "to find general patterns in student deci­sions about career choices" by examining students' academic programs. 
"We got involved in this sort ofby chance," Wegemer said. "We've been interested in this type ofthing, especially since one of the major functions of the More Society is to study how education contributes to career decisions." 
The student group will be in­terviewing as many Notre Dame stu­dents as possible in the next few weeks. Those. students contacted will be asked to complete a short survey consisting of questions that focus on "the efforts students are making to prepare tor a future 
career." The survey includes broad 
questions about the student's educa­
tional values and how they are at~ 
fected by career choice, and also 
more specific questions about Notre 
Dame as an academic institution. 

"It's a great way to get a very good 
idea of student opinions around the 
world," said Wegemer ofthe survev. 
"It's especially important to us he;e 
at Notre Dame because we're 
becoming more and more like the 
European universities." 

The study has arrived at some interesting results in its twelve years ofoperation. Each year the Institute of University Cooperation studies a different aspect of student life. Last year's survey examined "the role of moral, cultural and social values in studies," and resulted in some sig­nificant findings. About half of the students polled last year, for ex­ample, believed in limiting their col­lege academic program to an emphasis on technical competence and career training. This seems to in­dicate the view expressed by last year's students was that of "people whose studies are motivated by self­development rather than social causes," according to the survey report. 
On campus, Wegemer said that the More society will contribute their results to the U.S. National Committee of the I.U.C. The com­mittee will then choose student representatives from all over the U.S. to present the natiqnal findings this spring at the Institute's annual con-
Spaceshuttle begins 






~~~T..~~~A~~ ~~~~!.~~' Sy,.<m> 
of 
With a predawn "call to stations," test conductor Andy Brown yester­day started the countdown for space shuttle Columbia's first satellite-carrying commercial flight, set for a fiery liftoff Thursday. 
The count began on schedule at 3 
a.m. when Brown summoned more than 50 technicians and engineers to their consoles in the launch control center three miles from the steel and concrete pad where Columbia is perched. 
The four astronauts who will man the shuttle on its first operational mission were at the Johnson Space Center in Houston. concluding months of training. They are Vance Brand, the commander; pilot Robert Overmyer and mission specialists William Lenoir and Joseph Allen. 
Brand will captain the largest crew ever to be launched into space in a single ship. They are to fly here tomorrow to make final prepara­tions tor launch, scheduled for 7: 19 
a.m. Thursday. 
The early part of the count proceeded smoothly as Columbia's electrical power was switched on and the 60-foot-long cargo bay doors were closed, sealing im,ide the two ",200 pound communication!> satellites that are the shuttle'~ first commercial payloads. 
McLean, Va., and Telesat of Canada are the first in a long line of cus­tomers who will pay to have their payloads carried into orbit by the shuttle. They each have paid the Na­tional Aeronautics and Space Ad­ministration S10 million for hauling up the two S30 million satellites. 
It will be the responsibility of Lenoir and Allen to monitor the health of the satellites in the bay, conduct a 90-minute countdown for each and activate the spring devices that tling them out of the bay and in­to their own orbits. 
The SBS satellite is to be ejected Thursday, just eight hours into the flight. The Canadian payload is to be released Friday. . 
On Sunday , Lenoir and Allen are to take the first space walks in the shuttle program and the first by American astronauts in nearly nine years. They are to spend :\ hou t rs in the open cargobay, testing the space suits, airlock chamber and other sys­tems that support such activity. They'l1 also evaluate cools and tech­niques for future crews who will perform construction or repair as­signments outside the ship. 
Columbia is co return to Earth on 
Tuesday, landing at dawn on a desert 
runway at Edwards Air Force Base in 
California. 

• • • Weapons 
continuedfrom page 4 
mutual re~traint and respect of prin­ciple~ of international righb... 
fifteen types of weapons. includ­ing six kinds of missiks. thundered across the cohhle~tone square. At the end ot tht." -t';·minute military show, tloats carrying huge portraits of Lenin and Brezhnev rolled through. followed hy crowds of hanner-waving and placard-carrying citizens. Below the Brezhnev portrait were the words: "We arc setting two tasks: the welfare of the people and firm peace." 
Besides Brezhnev an Llstinov. other memhers of the ruling Polit­huro standing on the review-stand included Yuri \'. Andropov and Konstantin l'. Chernenko. They are 
widely regarded as contenders for the presidency if Brezhncv. whose health is declining. should die or become incapacitated. Foreign .\1in· ister Andrei A. Gromyko. \'iktor \'. ()rishin and Mikhail S. <Jorbachev were also presenr 
vention in Rome. Students in­terested in attending the conference will probably have to write an essay explaining their interest in the In­stitute's work, according to Wegemer, and will then be chosen through a general selection process. 
Pope John Paul II was one of the principal speakers at last year's UNIV conference in Rome. In his address to the more than 5000 student representatives participating in the Congress, the Pope spoke ofa "lucid 
cynicism" which prevents some stu­dents from becoming aware of the broad scope of a liberal education. He also warned that the desire of men to lead a "fuller and truer" life often "becomes spoiled even in young people, degenerating into revolt and desperate violence, or wearing itself out in foolish ambi­tions." 

COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL AND PUBLIC AFFAIRS 
For careers in: International Banking and Business Federal, State and Local Government I The United Nations Private Voluntary Organizations and the Media 
SfPA has been sucm4ully placing students in these positions Jince 1948. 
For information or an application, write to: 
School of International and Public Affairs 
Office of Admissions 

1420 International Affairs Building Columbia University • New York, New York 10027 

PERFORMING ARTS SERIES O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Saint Mary's College  
Wednesday,  November 10. 1982  8:00 PM  
General Admission  $4.00  Tickets  
Students  $2.00  284-4626  

[ 
"'!~> 
<t
t:_;.:. 
' '!"'• -----------------------------------------­
~ ?f· 
.:..:;, li; The Observer Monday, November 8, 1982 page6 
Physicist describes neuron learning 
By AMY STEPHAN pmer. He said that computers must News Staff have each step of a "thought process" programmed in order to 
Individual cells may be capable of reach a logical conclusion. while the learning, according to a Nobel Prize human brain can sometimes skip in­physicist. By understanding how termediate steps and quickly assess a these individual cells learn and in­given situation. such as a game of teract, one might be better able to cards. understand human learning and Cooper proposed that a cellular memory. learning mechanism might be par­
Leon N. Cooper discussed these tially responsible for this difference. ideas in a public lecture: Friday en­Using data from research on the titled "How Neurons Might Learn." visual cortical celb, Cooper ex­In his talk Cooper discussed his plained how individual cells might work in trying to understand the learn. Cooper noted that each cell central nervous -system and the sees different thing~ and acts accord­brain. ingly. 
Cooper used the example of a He said that this is a ~imp!<: torm of card game to demonstrate how the: learning. l'sing this and similar human hrain differs from a com-research. Cooper ~tared that it might speak to Major David Buckner and Lt.j.D. Casso/ be possible: to construct a theor-v that explains how cells learn. Cooper later spoke: about the
'City in the sky' 
process of language: acquisition. He:: contended that the theor~ that humans have a built-in capacit~ for
Soviet Union builds rocket for space station 
natural language b not suftlcic:ntly hacked by evidence. MOSCOW, ( AP)-The Soviet Un­rocket, code named "G." But they The sources, who asked to remain to be identified. 
Instead, ht· proposed that the ion is building the world's most speak openly of their concept ti>r unidentified, provided these statis­lie said the goal b to launch a 
pr-ocess of learning a language i' a powerful space rocket and plans to Cosmograd-or "city in the sky." tics: it will stand more than ~00 feet 220,000-pound cylindrical station 
trial and error proceuure in which test it next year, according to aut­It would he occupied year in, }Tar tall, generated about I I million in 19HS and to initially have 10 to 12 the child seeks to ht· understood b\· horitative sources here. The rocket out, by rotating crews of medical pounds of liftoff thrust and will be people on hoard, conducting scien 
ot~e(-j>hjf other!'> cai)POt understand would be used in 198S to hurl into researchers, astronomer~. worker~ able to hoist more than .~00,000 tilk and defen;.e assignments. the child's spet•(·h. the: child will al­orbit the 11 0-ton core of a massive making pure drugs and materials. pounds into orbit. American military analysts are con­
ter hb speech pattern until the idea manned space station. · satellite repairmen and military The largest rocket ever launched cerned the station could se::rve as a is understood. The child uses rules The sources -all of them in­astronauts reconnoitering the globe succe~sfully was America's Saturn S, launching platform for satellite­ofgrammar and syntax in order to be volved in the Soviet space program and manning space weapons. which wa~ retired after propelling de~troying laser weapons. understood, even though he or she 
-provided a rough outline, and a Some would inhabit this weight­American astronauts to the moon. It The U.S. Air Force and National is unaware that such rules exist. 
few details, of a project that dwarfs less world for perhaps years in long­generated 7.'; million pounds of Aeronautics and Space Administra­
Although his current research anything th~t has heen approved for term research projects. Others thrust and could carry more than tion would dearly love to build a 
centers on hi<~logical mechanisms the U.S. National Aeronautics and would man high-technology con­200,000 pounds into space. large space station but so far have that underly learning and memory. Space Administration. struction crews, assembling manned "The plan calls for a series of test received only a vague commitment 
Cooper received the Nobel prize in It's not all secret. Soviet officials and unmanned rockets destined for flights leading to an operational from the Reagan administration and 19"72 for his theory ofsuperconduc­won't officially acknowledge that the planets and other parts of the launch ofthe new rocket after two a few million dollars to continue tivity. He has received numerous they are developing the monster solar system. years," said an official who asked not studies. 
honorary degrees and other awards. 



--~~---· --~~-~--------------­
fhe Observer Monday, November 8, 1982 -page 7 
Six miles 
Iranian forces push into Iraq 
On economy, defense 


N e"W" Senate to challenge Reagan 
WASHINGTON, (AP)-Most of the faces will be the same, but the Senate convening next year will be feistier and more likely to challenge Presi­dent Reagan on both economic and defense issues. 
The new Senate will have 54 Republicans and 46 Democrats, same as the current lincwp. 
But the numerical outcome oflast week's election masks underlying factors which will partially close the Senate as the safe harbor for Reagan's program of continued cuts in the federal budget and steady in­creases in Pentagon spending. 
Sen. Bill Bradley of New jersey, vice chairman of the Senate Democratic Campaign Committee, said the election "augues .well for a quite different Senate. The moderate Republicans just elected and more 
• • . RosieandMarla 
continue<lfrom page 1 
periences. After the slide presenta­tion, Lisa .'\1adlinger and Roger Keating, two Mudents who have al­ready gone on Urban Plunges, gave a ~hort talk on their experiences. 
Comparing the plunge into the in­
ner city as a plunge into a pool, 
Keating said. "A couple ofyou on the 
plunge will really get wet, and find a 
place for urban ministry in your life. 
Most of you will dry off, but have a sympathy for those who are wet." 
Keating also urged the plungers to "keep a journal....before you go, write down all of your biases, and . your expectations-and leave them there." One needs an open mind, he said, to accept tt e new ideas that are to be found on an Urban Plunge_ 
Madlinger gave a detailed account of her Plunge experiences, includ­ing trips to a home for juvenile delin­quents and the Cook County Hospital. 
Evident in all of the places she visited, Madlinger said, "were people who were dedicated to their work with the poor, and happy doing it. It is hard to keep a distance from such an experience." 
Kelly Johnson, a freshman, said that she is going on the Plunge be­cause she feels that something is missing in her education, and she wants ro broaden her mind -to see moderate Republicans up in 1984 will not go in lockstep" with Reagan's conservative economic policies. 
Already, Senate Majority Leader Howard Baker has indicated he will support public jobs legislation and reductions in the American military buildup which Reagan is certain to oppose vigorously. 
Baker aide Tom Griscom said the senator spoke after the election with Republicans who were re-elected, including conservatives, who said Congress must produce jobs legisla­tion to ease the lOA percent un­employment rate. 
There also will be Republican proposals to reduce defense spend­ing, Griscom said. 
"They (Republicans) are not deserting the president," he said. 
what was going on in the "inner city." 
Althougn .)UU students were ex­pected, only 250 students have signed up this year for the Plunge_ McNeil attributed this to the short Christmas break this year (the Urban 
Plunge takes place over Christmas break), and to the possibility that Notre Dame might have a bowl game this year. 
For those who missed the workshop, there is a make-up tonight at .., in room 21-t of .'\1emorial Library. 
r----------------~
I 

Ihe Obset:ver: THE NEWS DEPT. will have a meeting for all reporters Thursday, Nov. 11 at 6:30 in the LaFortune Little Theatre. All reporters should attend.  


I 



-----------------~ 
"But there will be some moditlca­tions to his program," 
The Democratic campaign com­mittee chairman, Sen. Wendell Ford of Kentucky, said of the 53 Senate elections that some races won by Republicans were so close the Democrats "came within a whisper" of retaking Senate control, whkh they lost in 1980. 
Eighteen Democrats were re­elected to the Senate and almost all of them won big, although many opposed Reagan's legislative proposals. 
Moreover. six of the Republican incumbents, mainly in the .'\1idwest, were returned by extremely slim margins of one or two percentage points. In all six races, Democratic opponents made Reaganomics an issue in the campaign. 
A good example is incumbent GOP Sen. John Chafee of Rhode Is­land. lie put as much distance be­tween himself and Reagan as he could, but nonetheless is still await­ing the tlnal count of absentee bal­lots to assure his re-election. 
Those re-elected Republicans, plus another eight moderate GOP senators whose term!'> expire in I 98-i, are likely to weave an inde­pendent course over the next two years, which may or may not parallel Reagan's agenda. 
There also arc at least eight 
senators who are certain or po~sible 
presidential candidates in I9tH, 
among them Democrats Edward .'\1. 
Kennedy of .'\1assachusetts, just re­
elected; John Glenn of Ohio; Gary 
Hart of Colorado; Alan Cranston of 
California; and Republicans Baker of 
Tennessee and Bob Dole of Ka(\sas . 
Canadian Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau does the bump with Paulette Marches in Ottawa T-hursday nightduring a politicalcon­r•ention social. Trudeau hea(/edfor Europe yesterday to meet with French President Francois Mitterand in Paris and German Chan­
ut Kohl in Bonn. (AP) 

MAJORS (ND-SMO), AND ALL 
PROSPECTIVE MAJORS 
The following is a Devartment schedule for re-registration advising. Please contact our advisor at once to set up an appointmen n the dated indicated. 

Mon. llov. 8-Counseling and pre-registration for Tues. llov. 9 all XD ~ SMC departmental majors(Seniors OXLY) · 
Wed. llov. 10. Counseling and pre• pregistration Thurs. llov.11 for all XD ~ SMC dtrpartmental majors (Juniors 05L Y) 
Thurs. 5ov.11 XD advanced registration non-major 
l'ri. 5ov.12 Mon. 5ov.1S 
Tues. 5ov.16 Wed. 5ov. 17 (Seniors) 

5D advanced registration non-majors (juniors) 
Counseling and advanced registration 
XD ~ SMc-devartmental majors(Sophomores 05LY) Also: 4:00 ·6:00p.m. SMC advanced registration Seniors ~ Juniors 
Counseling and advanced registration 5D ~ SMC departmental majors (Soph) 
5:00 ·6:00p.m.· SMC advanced 
0 0 

TEHRAN. Iran (AP) -Iranian forces punched six miles across the border yesterday in their second in­vasion of Iraq in four months, Iran's Parliament speaker said_ 
The speaker. Hashemi Rafsanjar.i, told a news conterence the invasion force reached Tih. an Iraqi town of 5,000. and an adjacent town. which he did not name_ A producing oil­t1dd also lie~ in that area of Iraq, I-o miles southeast of Baghdad. 
_-\sked whether the Iranian militarY might drive toward the Iraqi capttaL Rafsanjani replied: "we will not limit oursdve~ ... we won't tlni!->h until thev meet our conditions." 
The white-turbaned \1oskm cler­gyman reiterated those peace condi­tions: withdrawal of Iraqi forces from Iranian soil, payment ofrepara­tions to Iran. <md "punishment" of Iraqi .President Saddam Husse.in. 
Rafsanjani, one of Iran's most powerful leaders, represents revolutionary patriarch Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini on the Supreme Defense Council. 
There was no immediate com­ment from Iraq on Rafsanjani's report. If true, it is Iran's second in­vasion of Iraq in their 25-month-old border war. In July, the Iranians at­tacked across the southern end of the frontier and stormed toward Basra. Iraq's second-largest citv. but they were driven back in heavy tlghting. 
The new operation extemb the \luharram offen!'>ive begun last \Ion­day -named ti.>r the current month of mourning in Iran's \loslem calen­dar_ The Iranians said they recaptured 210 square miles of Iraqi-held Iranian territory in the first days of the offensive that took them to the Hamrain mountain heights at the border. overlooking Tib and other towns and roads on the broad Iraqi plain_ 
On Saturday, Iranian authorities permitted foreign reporters to visit the highest point on the Hamrain mountain ridge line, a 4,600-foot hill called Hill -!00_ Reporters found Iran's Revolutionary Guard militiamen in firm control, with a commanding line offire over Tib. 
Iraq had claimed it repulsed the .'\1uharram offensive, but the repor­ters saw no evidence of Iraqi resis­tance to the Iranian drive. The journalists did not view areas of the front north and south of Hill -100. however. 
Iran's official Islamic Republic :\!ews Agency said the latest opera­tion was launched at I I: I 'i p.m. (EDT), hut the agency's tlrst reports did not say the Iranians had entered Iraq. It said Iranian t(m,:es inllicted "heavy casualties" on the Iraqis. captured I ,000, shot down an Iraqi jettlghter. seized 62 Iraqi tanks and destroyed -'i. 
The Iranians do not report their own casualties_ They claim to have killed or wounded -1,000 Iraqis in the llrst tlve days of the offensive. 
The Muharram operation is believed to have left the Iraqis with less than I00 square miles of Iranian territory -in small pockets along the 500-mile border warfront. 
·~--~----~----·----------..-._.------~-~~---..----------~__....----·-~-:-~ ~ -=-............-.-·-----~---_..~...........-----~--­
---------·-----·-----·---­
The Observer Monday, November 8, 1982-page 8 
10-day tour 

Pope concludes Spain tour 

Peter Pulitzer enters Palm Beach County Circuit Court Friday followed by his wife Roxanne to continue their divorce trial. Pulit­zer is filing for divorce from his wife ofsix-and-a-halfyears. At stake is custody ofthe couple's twin five year-old boys and Pulit­zer's estimated 125 million fortune. (AP) 
THE BIRDS (1963) Alfred Hitchcock, USA, color, 119 min. Daphne du Maurler's terrifying novel becomes a kind of modern 
morality play when the residents of a resort town become victims of mysterious mass attacks by fierce birds. 
Admission
..._Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum 
$ 2. 00 


BARCELONA, Spain, (AP) -A baggy-eyed Pope John Paul II, speak­ing near the end ofa grueling l 0-day Spain tour, called yesterday for ur­gent action to e.nd the world reces­sion and for a new economic order based on business-labor coopera­tion. 
"The state cannot resign itself to support unemployment forever," the pontiff declared under rainy skies in Barcelona, Spain's second­largest city. "Creation of new jobs must constitute an economic and political priority." 
After a morning visit to the moun­taintop monastery of Montserrat, the pontiff was driven to this in­dustrial center of Spain's northeast Catalonia region and said noon prayers at the spectacular but un­finished Church of the Holy Family. 
In the afternoon, he spoke to an audience on the grounds ofthe city's 1929 international exhibition and celebrated mass in Barcelona's new soccer arena. 
John Paul, who in eight days has rrell:kf"d ro 14 Spanish citif"~ ar...-i 
towns, looked tired and drawn. Large bags hung under his eyes, his expression was glazed and a bump had appeared on his forehead. 
Church officials declined to say what the swelling was. But they told reporters that when the tour ends tomorrow, the pontiff will retire to Castel Gandolfo, his retreat south of Rome, for a few days' rest. 
In his speech to an audience in Barcelona's hillside Montjiuc dis­trict, John Paul urged workers and business leaders to work together to reduce unemployment. The jobless rate in Spain is 14.6 percent of the work force. 
"The means for solution to this serious problem demand a revision of the economic order as a whole," the pope said. "In difficult and pain­ful times ... you cannot abandon workers to their lot, especially those who like the poor and the im­migrants, only have their arms to support themselves." 
In an apparent criticism of the radical left, John Paul spoke of what he called the "important need to overcome the unnatural and illogi­cal antagonism between capital and work, a conflict which has been ar­tificially fanned by the programmed class struggle" 
The pope's speech on labor ­employer relations reiterated many of the ideas he promulgated in his 1981 encyclical on work. 
But he made no mention of Solidarity, the outlawed independ­ent labor union in his homeland, Poland. Underground Solidarity leaders opposed to Poland's martial­law regime have called for strikes on Wednesday, the second anniversary of the union's certification by Poland's Supreme Court. 
Driving back to Barcelona, well­wishers showered John Paul with confetti and cheered as he arrived at the Church ofthe Holy Family. 
The structure was begun in 1883 by the eccentric Catalan architect Antonio Gaudi, who did not believe in keeping blueprints. Gaudi was killed in a traffic accident in 1926 and the church was never finished. 
Falwell cited 
Homosexuals fight religious bias 
INDIANAPOLIS, (AP) Homosexuality doesn't conflict with Christian principles, but it may still take decades to bring gay rigllts out of the closet and into the church, says the head of the largest gay and lesbian civil rights organization in the country. 
Virginia M. Apuzzo, executive director of the National Gay Task Force, accused fundamentalist religious groups like the Moral Majority of exploiting public mis­conceptions and contributing to the hatred and violence against homosexuals. 
"(Moral Majority leader) Jerry Falwell takes fear and ignorance and uses it to target a group -create pain for a group -whiie he tills his coffers," Ms. Apuzzo told a news conference here Saturday. 
But she said such groups haven't been able to retard the progress of gay rights legislation. 
"Gays will eventually be accepted because we're not just in San Fran­cisco or Greenwich Village (in New York City). We're also in the heartland of America -each town and village. We're janitors and Ph.Ds. We're your daughters and brothers and neighbors with enor­mous contributions to make," she said. 
A bill which would make it illegal to discriminate on the basis ofsexual preference is gaining congressional 
With riddles 


Chrysler scholarships 
By DAN MCCULLOUGH 
News Staff 

A new calendar is available in the bookstore that can do more than just tell the date. It could pay a student's tuition and provide him the use of a Chrysler automobile for a year, providing he is clever enough to determine the riddle hidden some­where in its pages. 
The Chrysler Corporation's most recent promotion is looking for the student with initiative to figure out the riddle. Questions covering many areas including music, mathematics, literature, and even computer science provide the clues to be used to solve the puzzle. 
The t1rst rive college students to solve the riddle will be awarded a 55000 scholarship along with the use ofa Chrysler car for one year by the Chrysler Corporation. 
The calendar presently is available in only a few univasity bookstores around the country. 
The promotion is being called an innovative move by Chrysler. It is the first ofits kind in that it is geared toward college-aged consumers as opposed to previously favored 35­and-older car buyers, according to 
Lon Hurwiz of the promotions department at Chrysler. 
Calendars are being sold at the bookstore and will continue to be sold until five winners have been found. 
.. . .... . . . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . .. . .. . . .... . . .. . .. . . . . . .... . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...; 
: DISCOUNT SAVINGS • 
CONTACT LENSES 
Replacements Or Spare Eye Contact's low annual membership fee of $12.50 entitles you to obtain replacement or additional NAME BRAND soft, hard, or specialty lenses and accessory care products . 
at a substantial sav1ngs soft lenses (regular) $24.95 each hard lenses (regular) $14.95 each according to your doctors prescnptlon. 1n sealed conta1ners w1th prompt serv1ce and a money-back guarantee 
Join now and receive an eye care gift pack and our accessory price list. 
DON'T WAIT, CALL TODAY FOR IMMEDIATE SERVICE 1 800 255-2020 (Toll Free) VISA, MASTERCARD or COD orders accepted 
Fam1ly membership tee dis~ount ava1lable Everything you II need 1n replacement contact lenses --Except the h1gh cost -­
EYE CONTACT 
P.O. Box 7770 Shawnee Mission, KS 66207 
.
.
••·•·•··••·•···•••·····•····•··•·•····•··•·•········•········•·•·•• 
support, she said. Falwell could not be reached for comment yesterday. 
Ms. Apuzzo said there are 20 mil­lion homosexual Americans making up 10 percent of the country's population and facing grave chal­lenges. 
"The most serious lack offreedom 
is the alienation from friends and 
family and seclusion in fear," she 
said. 

She said the media and law en­
forcement agencies tend to en­
courage the notion of gays as a 
criminal subculture or an un­
desireable segment ofsociety. 

Ms. Apuzzo was in Indianapolis to attend the first anniversary celebra­tion of Dignity Central Indiana, which has encouraged homosexuals to attend church. 
"Our concept is that ofa living, in­clusive church that's responsive 10 growth," she told reporters at Saint Aquinas Catholic Church center. The church began encouraging homosexual Catholics to attend its services about two years ago. 
"In the Old Testament, there are severe injunctions against such things as inhospitality and men cut­ting their hair. The New Testament is a message oflove and that's where Dignity seeks to participate," she said. 
Beaux Arts Ballto beheld 

The Beaux Arts Ball will be held this Fri., Nov. 12, from 9 p.m. to 2 
a.m. in the Architecture Building. The costume theme is "Bad Taste." Those demonstrating good taste will be denied admission, and merely ug­ly costumes are unacceptable. Two bands, The Verbs and The Rooms, will perform. Tickets are S4 and will be wailahle at the <.lining halls 
and at tht" door. 

Keeping with the theme, a case of 
generk and Red, White and Blue 
beer and two tickets have been hid­
den somewhere on campus. Clues to 
their location will appear each day 
in The Observer. 

There once was a case ofbeer 
Whose location far away wasyet so near. 
To get drunk in its place 
Is certainly Bad Taste 

And the wrath of many you 
wouldfear. 
,







Editorials 
Monday, November 8, 1982 -page 9 
It all comes down to • • • 
"It all comes down to money." This state­ment quoted in the Wednesday, 10/13 Ob­server article on the Ellerbe architecture seems simplistic. 
William J. Witt 
Guest Columnist 

Good money can be put into a great design and produce not a "spectacular building" but a masterpiece ofgood architecture. The same amount of money can be put into an inferior design and produce mediocrity at best and an architectural abortion at worst. (As for not bqjlding "monuments" the fact is that just about every one is a monument of some donor's generosity. Would they not prefer to have good or superior designed buildings?) 
Fortunately, Ellerbe hasn't produced any abortions on campus. But then they haven't come up with any masterpieces during the thirty years' monopoly of construction dol­lars, dollars which run to well over two hundred million. 
Mediocrity seems to be their speciality. 
Basically only fotor factors make the dif­ference between mediocrity and masterpeice -and not one ofthem is money. They are: 
1. 
A profound understanding of the human function for which the building is being bWI(,..$U)ce ''form follows function," a c~mpreh~~sive open to input and criticism is essential Aicbitects have been known to have blind spots. 

2. 
Good basic design -nothing can sub­stitute for it nor remedy a bad design. 


3. Honest materials, honestly used, with recognition that proper orientation to the sun and the site are essential to good architecture -since they are part ofwhat you build with. 
4. Attention to detail at all stages, in design, in location, in construction and decoration. Rooms without windows or with low ceilings that create conditions conducive to claustrophobia and depression are cruel and violate the basic principles of good human architecture. 
The essential element in these four factors is not a maximum ofmoney but a maximum of intelligence and creative imagination. A bit of humility to free us to consider various options is also helpful. 
The engineering competence of Ellerbe may be a fact (although a $1 00,000 repair bill on a new building does raise questions), but it is obvious to all that their design department is short of aesthetic intelligence, if not des­titute ofcreative imagination. With the excep­tion of the first and second floors of the Memorial Library, and of the Snite Musuem which Professor Richardson designed, the Ellerbe buildings on campus reveal an in­nocence of artistic sophistication that is un­believable at this time and place in history. 
To call the student rooms ofFisher Hall, for Instance, or the corridors and classrooms of 
O'Shaughnessy "Spartan" is to do the Greeks 
an injustice. They would have demanded 
some grace and comfort for the human psyche 
and spaces in proper proportion for the 
human body. Eight-foot ceilings may be ac­
ceptable in a kindergarten or grade school. In 
a university where each generation of stu­
dents is taller than the last it is without jus­
tification. It is short-sighted to say the least. 
How different from the generous designs of 
Father Sorin and the ante-Ellerbe builders! 
To aim at "not producing sore thumbs" is a totally negative goal for a construction programme. It's an old axiom: "You usually get something below what you aim at." The fact of the matter is: not only have "sore thumbs" been produced but a generation of "sore persons." Persons hurting because they must live and work in buildings that take little account of the psychological and aesthetic need ofthe people they are supposed to serve. Persons who are sore, angry, because of the cavalier treatment they perceive when they try to have some input into the design of places that profoundly affect their lives, such as the new Faculty Office Building. 
The 19th Century factory comes to mind ­
where the owner determined the conditions 
under which the employee labored. 
The greatest asset of the university is tht> 
competent, gifted and devoted faculy. To 
alienate even a part ofthis asset is to pay dear­
ly for the architectural sore thumbs. This may 
not reflect an autocratic policy, latent or 
manifest, but where is the collegial spirit 
recommended by Vatican II? 
"It all comes down to money." Cest trop 
facile! What of priorities? The plea that the 
needs of the faculty and students must be 
fitted to the donors' needs to designate the 
particular buildings they will sponsor seems a 
classic case ofthe tail wagging the dog. Where 
is the donors' dedication? Is it to a science 
building, an athletic facility, or to the Univer­
sity of Notre Dame? What is the function of 
leadership? Is it not to interpret the needs and prionues of the University to alumni and other benefactors? Would not a donor be as happy to have their name on a first class Cen­ter for the Performing Arts as on a Museum for the works ofartists long dead? 

The Church has ever recognized that the arts are a created participation in the creative power ofGod, special gifts given to the few for the benefit of the whole community. As such they are instruments of great and subtle power for communicating the divine and humane values Christ gave us for the building ofa better world. 
What priority do music and drama, rhetoric and debate, receive here? 
Is debate even welcome? 
The remodeling of Washington Hall is short-changed while millions are poured into a mammoth uninspired science hall. Neither money nor time is the bottom line. Oberlin College, for instance, while nine years older than Notre Dame has but halfthe endowment of this great university, yet its Music School makes Notre Dame's admirable and even flaw­less musical efforts look like "a service depart­ment for ceremonial events," to quote a faculty member. 
Over the years millions ofdollars have gone to Ellerbe in fees. If "it all comes down to money," could not this money be put into creating an Architecture Department at the University that would be equal to designing and supervising all University construction? The· mechanics, viz., electric, plumbing, air­conditioning, etc., could be entrusted to the University's excellent engineering depart­ments. Such a cooperative program between departments could produce a process of learning-by-doing that would be most ef­fective. Such a process is not uncommon in major industries and has the advantage of proximately preparing the students with real experience for the available jobs. 


In such a program the students, supervised and continually monitored by their profes­sional architecture and engineering instruc­tors, could produce some extraordinarily fine design. Certainly they could match some of Ellerbe's efforts, e.g., Pasquerilla Hall where some students have said they feel like "they are living in a hospital," or "like they are living in a prison." 
If a building does not function to make people happy when they live or work in it, it is not "cheap" regardless of how much money was saved on it. The bottom line is not the dollar sign, but the human cost. 
"It all comes down to money." Is that why Mestrovic's Moses has been displaced and the modem symbol of the golden calf, the Wall Street trading post erected in his place in the heart ofthe Library? 
Clutter, visual shouting in a pi ace where there was serenity, space, and peace! 
A statue of Christ, the Divine Teacher to replace Moses? Yes! A sculpture of Mary, Seat ofWisdom, Yes, Yes! But a trading post? 
Can not this great university which built so nobly in the past and which is graced by the foremost sculpture ofour era, Ivan Mestrovic, do better than put up mediocre buildings and stampede Bears and Bulls through the heart of the Memorial Library? 
It all comes down to ... Luke 12:34. 
Will tam J. Witt, a priesl ofbe Dioceu of Youngstown, Obto, studied architecture at Ohio State University before entering the seminary. He bas seroed on the Youngstown Diocesan Liturgical Commission and bas directed the designing and construction ofa parishplant. He bas served as a consultantto parishes and to a Trappist community undertaking building programs. He is cur­rently on sabbatical leave researching a book on counseling. 

So, here it is, 50 days till Christmas. No, wait, you say ... (rapidly adding on your fin­gers), it's only 48! Don't try and bilk me into languishing longer than I must in this waste­land! Well, I'm not. But somebody probably will. 
Joe Musumeci 
Looking In 

It is only 48 days till the air comes alive with the scent ofholly, fir trees and slightly volatile eggnog. But -and this is a big "but" ­Christmas this year falls on a Saturday. Now, one would think that Christmas is so hallowed and tradition-laden a holiday that none would dare mess with the sacred moniker, "December 15th," but one might also con­sider what has happened to most ofour major holidays; 50 days from now is a Monday, and this has emerged as the overall favorite for holiday revelling. 


Ahhhh, the holidays! 
No, I don't think anybody is going to move Christmas to Monday, but it is something to think about. Thursday is Veteran's Day; last year we would have therefore been celebrat­ing it today. I don't know why we are not this year, but I welcome the return to sanity. 
Holidays don't seem to mean quite as much as they used to; much ofthis is probably due to the fact that one is never roo sure when they will roll around. The placement of holidays depends more on the convenience of bureaucrats and vacationers than the date of the commemorated event. It is fortunate that Messrs. Lincoln and Washington are resting in prolonged peace, for. were they still alive, the confusion as to the celebration of their birth dates would leave them in a quite a quandary. I can just see old George, furtively digging through his old chest of papers and proofs from portrait sittings, desperate to discover whether his birth certificate really read "Monday. 1...,32." 
Another factor that has influenced the ef feet holidays have on our lives is the now-old complaint concerning the commercialism at­tached to the major ones. The "holiday season" now extends virtually all year long, so that there is no waiting between special days -only transitions from one shopping season to another. 

But for the student, especially at Notre Dame, the most pertinent fact in the decline of. the holiday motif is that we don't have them. 
All right. Lots of us put up tinsel and little trees right before Christmas break. And Hal· loween is a wonderful excuse to get dressed up in outlandish attire and parade the campus in search ofphantoms and fun. But what about all the rest of the holidays that the outside world celebrates? The birthdays of Washing­ton, Lincoln and various sundry others; Veteran's Day, Election Day -whither have these fled? 
I suppose I expected to lose all the holidays of my youth when I came to college, as I ex­pected to lose so many other things. But there is one thing I never thought to leave behind. 
I went through eight years of Catholic elementary education, and four years ofCath­olicjesuit high school. Never mind that both the Holy Cross nuns and the Jesuits seem to have glean ted their educational training from Palestinian guerrillas. One tradition of Cat­holicism remained consistent. Holy Days of Obligation remained holy. 
Now that 1 have fled to the last bastion of outdated moral militarism in an otherwise progressive country, it is plain that holy days aren't nearly as important as my black-clad Hitlers made them out to be -for Notre Dame doesn't bother with them. 
It seems odd that a university which insists on enforcing separation of the sexes on the basis that it is in keeping with Catholic stan­dards should neglect to observe the days devoted to some of the greatest perrsonages and events in the history ofour faith. It makes one wonder. 
Notre Dame stubbornly ignores the Immac­ulate Conception, the Assumption of Our Lady, All Saints Day; there's nobody here on December 25th -I wonder ... 
Editorial Board
The Observer Department Managers 
I I< t)f.,, 11 ,., '' .Ht zn,kj't"ndcn: !lt""'i'·lj'L"I f'uhlz,hc,J 1'1 tilL· 'tl!d<."nl' nt tltc 

EditiJr· in-Chief.. . ,\lichad :\1onk Business lllanager .. ...Ton\· Atcllo t1tll"htt; .,( !\:11trc D.Hne du I .h .lfhl S.unt 1\l.tn ' ( ulk!!L It ,\ne' t·ul IlL' <"".trt!\ .1/ww,r.;ing Editor .. RYan \"n lkrkmoe~ Controller.. ..............Eric ~chult rdlc< I ihl" rulz, II"' of tlzc .hllllllll'tr.!ltUL <1/ L"tthu tfl\lt!t,-lillrl ·1 he r1CV.' '' itf'Ori FYecutit•e .\"eu·s Editor.. . .. Dave Dziedzic Aduertising .Jimwger...... ......Chrh Owen t"<i ·" .t•LUrJtelv Jn,J ·'' uhl"l'''il .h l'""'hk I d1torul, rq•rncnt the llj't:ttLHl nf ,.ltC Fn:cutiz•e Editor .. . .. :\1argarc·t 1-'osmoe Production Mmzager ...........:\laura \lurph1 . t rr:.q<Htty of tltc I dztnr1J! lhur,l ( Oolllll< nl.tiiL"'· L1f'tllllli1' .l!l•l kttLT\ .trt" the ncv., \jiurts Editor.. ....... Chri~ :"Jecdk~ Circulation Jlanager . . . .Ray lnglin '" thur Juthor' ( ulzunn 'i'J,,. '' ,tl.ul.d,!t-tL> .tl\z,ternhn, ut the <01111llut<tt; ..10J Filitorials Editor. ... Paul .\lc..·Ginn .\)•stems .Hmwger .. .... Bruce Oakll"1 th· fret· exl'fC>~IiJil of I.Jryutg upllltom uz1 ,Jt!lj-'U~. UHougll letter>, 1> encour t,o;eJ h '>tres Editor .. ....Tari Brown Photo Et!zttTr .. Rachl"l Blount 
Founded November 3,1966 
~·-·­
J



-----~~-~-~-------._.----,------~-----~----~-....-----------__......-,--------._.---------;>""'"----------~-~-~----------------~-~----. 
~~S H0 W C ~....SiiiiiEiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiondiilayiii,Niiioveiiimbiiieriii8,liii98iii2iiipiiageiilO~ 


Rush's SIGNALS 
A
s more and more bands copromise their musical tastes for the financial reovards ofthe commercial sound, it is refreshing to see a band go commercial without losing the quality oftheir music. 
On Signals, the latest album from the Canadian trio Rush, the 
group changes their style without ruining their sound. The 20­
minute-longsongs reminiscent of"2112" and "By-Tor and the Snow 
Dog" are gone, but the mystical music ofGeddy Lee and Alex Lifeson 
and the inspiring lyrics ofNeal Peart make this another in a long line 
ffiike Wilkins 
tecotd tevlew 
ofpowerful albums put together by Rush in the last few years. 
The biggest change on the album is the lyrics. The songs deal with man: his problems, his dreams, his triumphs. It is a big change from the albums that produced songs like "Cygnus X-1" and other fan­tasies about outer space and unearthly conquests, but one that brings the lyrics closer to a larger number oflisteners. 
"Subdivisions," the first cut on side one, criticizes society for its social groups and the way it makes outcasts out ofpeople who are different. An ominous voice in the background make the subdivi­sions ofsociety seem even more inhibiting than the lyrics do. "The Analog Kid" shows the inspirational dreams ofmankind through the eyes ofa little boy. Lee's dreamy voice gives a dramatic quality to the most moving parts ofthe song. Two other tracks, "Digital Man" and "The Weapon," deal with the hopes andfearsofman. and how he at­tempts to deal with these feelings. 
Two very different songs highlight the album. "New World Man," the album's biggest hit and one ofthe biggest hits for the group, is Peart's view of modern man. He is man doing the best he can, but making mistakes along the way. The song features a catchy beat and is enhanced by Lee's mesmerizing bass play. 
The other feature ofthe album, "Losing It," is different than probably any other Rush songever produced. It is a slow moving bal­lad, similar to "The Trees" or "Red Barchetta," but it is one ofa very small number ofsad songs Peart has ever written. It relates the fall of once-talented people and encourages people to the use their talents to the fullest. SJ:1ecial work with an electric violin adds to its melancholy spirit, as does Lee's sad, almost pleading voice. 
For the hard core Rush fan, the old influences are evident onSig­nals as well. Lifeson is once again awesome on guitar, especially in his two part solo on "The Analog Kid." Peart's style on drums, much different than his style on any other album, ranges from the driving force behind "Digital ~an" to the off-beat, immobilizing thrust of "Chemistry. " His performance again shows why he is considered one ofthe finest drummers in the rock world today. 
Lee's performance on the album is also top-rate. His work on syn­thesizers and bass guitar is precision perfect, especially on "Subdivisions" and "Digital Man." His play on the bass pedals give the group the extradiversity that makes it the hit that it is today and his vocals mesmerize the listener and bring out every feature of Peart's writing. 
One other influence from the group's earlier days is the trio's fas­cination with technology and space travel. "Countdown" is ded­icated to the crew ofthe space shuttle and features taped conversations ofthe flight in the background. The tape, plus the the descriptive words and music bring visions ofthe launching to lis­teners and recall memories ofthe classic "2112" from earlier days. The words of"Chemistry" gives the science a human color and shows offPeart's knowledge about the science and technical world. 
Signals isanother fine example ofjust how good Rush is. It is hard 
to find more precise music or better lyrics than those produced by 
Lee, Lifeson, and Peart. Their combined talents makeSignals one of 
the best new albums out today and mark another period of musical 
style for the highly talented band. 



_,., 
tr41!.. 


Tt was a freezing evening Friday, !.but the inside ofthe ACC may have been the hottest spot in town as Rush played one ofthe best concerts seen here in a long time. The Canadian trio has been a top concert 
Vic Sciulli 

conctut tevlew 
draw since its beginning and new fans learned why the band's hard­rocking style of music has earned 
them both album and concert suc­cesses. 
"Spirit of Radio," the band's most popular single off theirPermanent Waves album got the concert offto a fast start. There were surprisingly played seven of the album's eight few musical changes in the song tracks. (Only "Losing It," with its (though lead singer Geddy Lee eerie electric violin opening and jokingly changed the lyrics haunting lyrics was excluded. " ...freedom of music" to nals continues the bands move to " ...freedom ofbaseball" once less layered, more straightforward 

during the song, a change that is un­style ofmusic which started on derstandable after reading the manent Waves and continued on sleeve oftheir new album). "Tom the immensely successfulMoving Sawyer" and "Free Will" and the first Pictures. During this transition, of many visuals followed. Lee fre­Lee's voice has become less quently alternated between bass and while Peart's compositions have synthesizers while drummer Neil become much less remote and Peart's consistent drumming accessible to fans trying to under­
complemented Alex Lifeson's stand their lyrics. guitars. Lee's voice,long known as 
being one ofthe most unusual in "Subdivisions," arguably one of 
rock, pierced through the loud the best songs ofthe new lot best e 
music without sounding strained. emplified the band's more 
"humanized" approach to music. The band is currently touring be­Lee's voice retained its control hind their newSignals LP and while communicating the en1ol:io111< 


Dnzzling 


-.,u 
e 
::» 
en
::» 
E
., 
0 
~ 

· ']"1his past weekend, thanks to the efforts ofthe Broad­
1 way Theater League, the smash hitEvita crossed the 
stage ofthe Morris Civic Auditorium. It might not be an 
exxaggeration to say that this presentation marked the 
apex to date of the arts in South Bend. Actually, this 
broad a statement is impossible to defend, but the 
feeling was unavoidable upon leaving the theatre Satur­
day night. 
Ez•ita brought to the Morris Civic stage a production 
retaining in every aspect the polish and life it amassed 
on Broadway. The show won seven Tony Awards when 
it premiered in New York, and it was apparent this 
weekend that every one of them was well deserved. I 
have: seen hc:fore, on the same stage, a show or two 
which hardly mc:rited the lahc:l "professional," hut any 
trt'pidation I might have had about the state of the 
theatre in South Bend was forevc:r forgQtten. 
The show was conceived as the story of Eva Peron, 
the wife ofArgc:ntinian President Juan Pc:ron, and her 
rise: from the: raggc:d life ofa small town guttersnipe to 
the: position of the most powc:rful woman ever in the 
Latin Americas. A product ofa collaboration between 
Tim Rice and Andrew Lloyd Wc:bber, the co-writers of 
jesus Christ Superstar andjoseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat,Evita is similar to these two in that it is almost entirely sung, really more ofa contem­porary opera than a musical. 
Florence Lacey as Eva shone throughout the perfor­mance; her voice carried the challenging score well, and she very ahly managed the transition from a young girl on the make at the opening of the show to the studied dignity and showmanship which had become Evita's trademark at the time ofher death from cancer at the age of.H. Her rendition of"Don't Cry for Me, Argen-

But La~
portrayal ofEvita's liance to ting in an• proper. H gave life t• What aCi funeral, p show, ran melodic s tion at the 
The: tee with crisr designed, showedu1 result wa~ in the typ1 cellent, arl' 
The: lig, the I980' lines ofsp tastefully 
pr around th All in al 
bodesgre 
way The~ 
myActT 
ConnieSt the capo~ quite har~ for this on 

~ 
...... 

,•••••••••••••••••••••••e••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••~ 
The Observer Features Section 
Monday, November 8, 1982 -page 11 


HI 
frustration ofman's conflict in conforming to society's pressures. (A video produced for tbe song ap­peared behind the group adding to the song's intensity.) "The Analog Kid" was a rocker in a different mold for Rush while "The Weapon" sounded as it might have been done by The Police. "Countdown," which was written while the band watched the launching ofthe space shuttle Columbiawas one ofthe few musical disappointments from the new album though an outstanding video ofthe launch, complete with flashpots for rocket smoke and sound effects was a great touch. 
The band played very little material from its pre-Permanent Waves days. "Fly By Night" and "Working Man" among others were 
It a roaring ovation from the audience. 1was outshown by Tim Bowman in his Fhe, the reactionary who narrates the tale ~and fall. Bowman added a touch ofbril­~~show with his scathing performance, dar­ut ofthe action and the reality ofthe play 
andling ofthe song "High Flying Adored" rhat is not really an inspiring song, and "Oh, ~s." a commentary on the fiasco ofEvita's :ented effectively at the beginning of the ike a barker's spiel, with just enough ty to give it the feeling of being a lamenta­tme time. iical conception ofthe show was handled lyle and innovation; the set was well :1 tlawles~ly operated. The sound system bme unecessary microphone noise, but the HI far superior to the quality usually heard I Morris Civic show. The orchestra was ex­well blended. ng design, in particular, proved worthy of ny awarded it. The light set incorporated ;aimed up from the stage tloor which were :d to highlight the tones of the play and led an eerie glow upon the characters arra 
ne show was an unqualified smash, and :hings for future productions. The Broad­
League will soon be bringingI'm Getting rber and Taking it on the Road with :ns, and it promises to be another feather in cal theater buffs. Tickets for Evita were ' come by late on, so think about ordering lOOn. 

fusta thought 
B
ecause of my commitment to cover the Notre Dame hockey team for our illustrious sports section, I came back early from spring break to catch the Notre Dame-Northern Michigan series. 
Friday night, after our disappointing loss to the Wildcats, 5-2, 
Chucker the Mexican madman and Iwent to Barnaby'sfor some liq­
uid consolation and then back I went to the dorm. 
Along came the midnight hour, and I was getting restless. So I 
grabbed my coat and boogied on down to Albert's to recommence 
comiserating with glassware. 
It was a lucky thing I did, too, because sitting at the bar were two 
of my favorite drinking buddies, Ted and Ned. 
We had a great time. I told Fr. Hesburgh how much nicer he 
looked without his beard, and Fr. joyce agreed. After three or four 
EdKonrady 
features 

rounds ofsome fearsome chocolate milk, the talk turned to football. 
Suddenly Ned's voice dropped to a conspiratorial whisper. 
"Ed, you're my favorite writer. Read your column every week. So, I'm gonna do you a favor -give ya a little scoop, as it were, a real im­portant story." An important story! My ears perked right up. This could be the first important story The Observer has run this year. 
"Listen, you probably know that my two heroes, outside of Him, are George Steinbrenner and AI Davis. Great, great minds. And they almost have as much money as we do. So I've decided to follow them, and make a decision that will truly shake up the Notre Dame community." 
"You're going to fire Gerry Faust and replace him with Ara Par­segian," I said, hopefully. "No, no," the jovial Ted laughed as he shook his head, "it's even better than that. Tell 'em Ned." 
"Tee bee, it's the best idea we've evercome up with," giggled Ned. "Better than kegs, better than split-season basketball tickets, even better than parietals." 
"Better than parietals?" I scoffed. "Parietals have done more to twist the Notre Dame mentality away from acceptable social maturity than anything else you've everdone. What could you do to abuse Notre Dame students more?" 
Ted just started giggling, blowing into his straw and making little bubbles in his milk. Ned had a huge grin on his face and rolled his eyes around and around. They were obviously enjoying putting the screws on me like this. 
."Okay guys, I give up. What are you pulling?" Ned's face turned bright red. "Remember how AI Davis moved the Raiders to Los Angeles, and how mad the Oakland fans were?" "Sure, the fans would kill for a football team, but ...no, you couldn't ..." 
"Yes! Yes! We're moving the football team to Oakland!" 
Ted started singing "California, Here We Come". 
I didn't know what to do. 
Without a football team, what would happen to Notre Dame? 
We wouldn't really lose any revenue. More people could fit into Oakland Alameda Stadium, and Hammes Bookstore II would un­doubtably be near. Mor~ money would pour into the University sports fund. More alumni could see the team and feel a part of the University -and give much more money for running the University. 
But The social life of having a football game -the rallies, parties, passing up girls -would be lost. How could we relate to women without parties. Why, freshmen could go an entire semester without getting insanely drunk and making passes. 
What excuse would girls give for putting up with overcrowded parties at the towers? 
The quality of Notre Dame wouldn't be measured as much by the success of the football team as it would have to be by its acedemic standards. 
Oh my gosh. 

Ifwe lose our football team, what would happen to life at Notre Dame? 
"Well, what do you say, Ed?" asked Ned. "Is that an idea or what?" 
Yep, Ned, that's definitely something to think about. 
noticeably absent. The two hour set 
was tight, maybe too tight; far too 
few musical changes were risked. 
Many ofthe songs were performed in the same order on last year'sExit Stage Left, the bands second live al­bum. Even Peart's excellent three­minute drum solo during "YYZ" in the encore, though longer than the one onExit, was a bit too predict­
able. 
There was no spectacular laser light show as was common in the band's earlier days. The lights present, however, were more than adequate and along with the com­puter graphics and other visuals, served as a complement to the music rather than a distraction. (The racing car sequence during "Red Barchetta" and the "Subdivisions" visual were extremely well done.) 
The sound system at the ACC, nt..er spectacualar to begin with, was adequate though there were problems at first hearing Lifeson's guitar and Lee above everything else. The predominantly teenage crowd, many who were chemically numb to what was going on, didn't seem to mind, however, and went 
home happy  with  what  they  did  
hear.  
Rory  Gallagher  and  his  band  

opened the show with an energetic, set that poured through songs like "Double Vision," "Moonchild," and "Big Guns." The music was loud a Ia Van Halen and only "What the World You Gonna Do" hinted to the blues origin for which Gallagher is better known. The crowd reaction was more than just perfunctory and sufficient to warrant an encore. 
U
nder the auspices of the Shakespeare Club, Roman Polanski's controversial interpreta­tion ofMacbeth will be shown tonight at 7 p.m. and 9:40p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. Professor James Robinson, the self-proclaimed "King" of the Club, describes Polanski's version as' ...a film which plays up the external horrors ofShakespeare's study ofevil." Polanski's film has achieved a certain 
notoriety over the years for its ex­plicit treatment of the play's violent aspects. Yet the blood and gore in this tllm are neither gratuitous nor exploitative; rather Polanski'sMac­beth evokes the appalling conse­quences ofEvil triumphant. It is a 
sight which Robinson cautions "is 
not for the faint of heart." 
Stylistically, Polanski's talent as a versatile expressionist has always proven vital to the formal and thematic constructs of his work. Polanski's greatest technical strength resides in his knack for creating the right tone, whether it be the spare visuals ofKnife in the Water or the richly-textured atmo­spheres ofChinatown. InMacbeth the spiritual absence which anes­thetizes the title character's con­sciousness is externalized in the 
murky tones which dominate the film. 
Thus dark colors, misty set­tings, and a sort ofocular heaviness combine with the gruesome acts of violence to produce a surpr t isingly innovative film. Regardless ofone's feelings about Polanski's methods, his original approach toMacbeth merits respect. 
In addition to the two screenings ofMacbeth the Shakespeare Club is sponsoring a "Shakespeare Costume Contest." All are encouraged to en­ter the competition by dressing up as their favorite Shakespearean character. The contest will take place between the first and second showings (approximately 9:1 5 p.m.). "King" Robinson makes "assurance double sure" that the winner will receive a S25 first place prize and the runner-up a SIO second place prize. The evening promises to be an entertaining one, but those of you who intend on seeing the film beware: you may soon find yourselves "cabined, cribbed, confined, bound in/ To saucy doubts and fears." 




movie! 

Patrick mulligan 
·;· 


r-· 
'I 


t The Observer Features Section 
Monday, November 8, 1982-page 12 
A''~sub'' standQtd 
r::ere are two things I miss about Why, I always wondered, did classesand my "teaching" wold con-authorized discussion groups which worried that the principal might 
my pre-college schooldays. One these substitutes always allow things sist of of giving out an assignment provided a steadily increasing walk by and hear the roaringclassso is waking up on a frigid January to get so out ofhand? Did they enjoy the real teacher had left and prevent-clamour ofgossip, giggles, and guf-1changed tactics. morning, seeing a heavy white being the objectsofridicule and dis-ing the varmints from setting the faws. I suspected that these seminars 
"Come on keep it down," I im· blanket ofsnow covering the roads respect or were they were too dim· school on fire. Easy enough I were unrelated to the Hemmingway plored to what looked like the mainand learning that school has been witted to realize that we little rascals thought. I told myselfto be strict and shon story they were supposed to offenders. Perhaps a more friendlycancelled. (It is little wonder that were pulling the wool over their uncompromising -anyone with a be reading but before I could gather approach was needed. This was ini· snowy mornings in much ofthe eyes? And what kind ofimbeciles little determination and a loud voice the appropriate harsh words to tially somewhat effective but I wascountry are the cause ofthe world's took these jobs anyway? could keep a class under control. demand some silent study, I was be· 

soon hit with another problem

most attentinve radio audience.) All these questions were seiged by an array ofdubious re-
In my best second-grade printing, (literally) -flying balls ofpaper. I
answered for me over break when quests.
I wrote "Mr. Fraser" (it would be paraded the rows ofdesks with my
this imbecile worked as a substitute "Can we go to the bathroom?"
Chris ftQSet strange being called that) on the most menacing glare but I was
teacher. Yes, with my 60 college asked two girls in identical denim
blackboard and cautiously eyed the unable to locate the culprit. Things
credits I'm technically qualified to jackets.
first class as they shuffled in. They only got worse after that. My 
subsittute teach although I'm not "Can I get adrink ofwater?" in-
features didn't look too bad, a curious mix of demands for silence had been
quite sure that two peaceful years of quired a squeaky-voiced lad.
black t-shirts, designer jeans, and reduced to a "pleeease" for a quietercollege is the best prerequisite for 
The other is arriving at school and Adidas snealkers. The bell rang and I An older looking guy who was bedlam. I was praying for the bell to
handling a room full oflittle bratsfor ring.

discovering an unfamiliar face at the called on the class to come to order trying (vainly) to grow a mustache
a day. 

r 
head ofthe class instead ofthe in my well-practiced, resounding, thought he had a more urgent re-But the final insult was yet toregular slave driver who had (much I was registered to sub (that's authoritative voice. No one moved. I quest: "I forgot my book. Can I go to come for this all too typical sub. As I~ to the chagrin of the class) taken ill. education lingo for substitute) in repeated my command several my locker?" 
was contemplating how I was goingThe face belonged to a much-abused your basic middle class school sys· times with increasing volume until to crack down on the second period -and thereby very welcome -tern and I figured I was lucky when I finally a big burly kid wearing a foot-I handed this last guy the teacher's class (and checking when lunch substitute teacher. was called to take overfor a tenth· ball jersey stood up and barked ediion ofthe book and told the was) the whole class stood up and"shut-up", thus bringing silence to others to sit down. No sir, this subgrade English teacher on my first

The presence ofa substitute was began walking toward the door.
wasn't that gullible. I didn't have
the room. I straightened my tie and
day. I thought -hoped might be a

an unmistakeable signal for a day of "What do you think you're
time though, to relish in my new
looked down at the attendance
better word -that these sopho­

mischievious, delinquent, and doing?" I screamed. "Sit down or the
sheet. found power. I realized that rather mores would be old enough to be
generally obnoxious activity. These entire class will be reponed to the
than design some scheme to get outbeyond the "let's tie up the sub"
people were most assuredly naive principal!"-I threatened. As the first
"IfI mispronounce anyone's of the room, the rest ofthe class wasstage but still young enouJP1 to fend
and easily footed (they lwhaken person reached the door the bell 
"•· name," Iannounced," .. :well; that's more than content to remain and
of.fifthey tried it. I'm bappy to

this joblwin't they?) so we greeted sounded and they quickly filed out.
too bad." Isti(l claim that there's engage in an early morning socialreport that, no, they didn't tie me up
them with spitballs, answered to the Perfect timing-as good as fd ever
some bumo•· in that little witticism hour.
(I can run pretty fast). On the other

wrong names during roll call, and done to a sub myself just a few years
but nonetheless no one laughed:
hand, it seems as ifthey got away

did our all-around best to create a "Let's quiet down." I exhorted ago. Ofcourse I wouldn't repon
Maybe this wouldn't be so easy after 
with just about everything else.

general uproar. We were forever repeatedly. At first my entreaties them. Actually, 1 was rather amused.
all. confident that neither the stern-caused a definite noise decrease Heck, there were only five more faced principal nor our irascible The way they had explained it to By the time I had explained the <J..s-(though never a dissappearance) classes and I knew Icould keep them teacher would learn ofour unruly me, the job should have been rather signment, the students had already but after a while I felt like I was in line. Well, there were only five behavior. A substitu~e never told. simple. I would have six separate divided themselves into several un· talking to the blackboard. I was more classes anyway. 
'T1be Snite Museum's photographs of buildings from the the show. Architects and city plan­
~ O'Shaughnessy Galleries now Prairie School and Beaux Arts to late ners are often interested in seeing house the exhibit entitled, and Post Modernism. The exhibit what a proposed building will look "Hedrich-Blessing: Architectural holds particular historical value be· like on the site. A photograph of the Photography, 1930·1981." This cause many ofthe buildings proposed site and a photo ofthe ar­showing, organized by the George depicted have long since been chitect's scale model are taken from Eastman House, documents the razed. Future generations will look a given perspective. The emulsions work of Louis Sullivan, Frank Lloyd to the archives of Hedrich-Blessing ofboth negatives are then Wright, Mies van der Rohe, Buck­to see the great work ofpast masters. combined, blended and adjusted minster Fuller, Eliel Saarinen, and In addition to the firm's historical and finally rephotograhed. The final the firm ofSkidmore, Owings and and artistic contributions to the photomontage print is amazingly Merrill, displaying examples oftheir field, Hedrich-Blessing has convincing. work found in and around Chicago. pioneered some technical advances, 

The Hedrich-Blessing firm has chiefamong them is the process The show will continue until captured bits ofthe history of called "emulsion stripping," several December 19 during regular gallery modern architecture in its examples ofwhich can be found in hours. 
Dobert Hughes, art critic for Time through the social history ofthe series will be shown. "Culture As 
.!'-magazine since 1970 and one of twentieth century as seen through Nature" describes how culture 
the most widely read writers on art the lens ofart. It demonstrates how replaced nature as the subject mat· 
in the English language, narrates the major works and artists of the ter ofart. "The Future That Was" 
documentary film, The Shock ofthe modern era have broadened takes an in-depth look at the result of 
New, which will be shown at 7:30 people's lives and changed their per­our modernist culture, the 
p.m. in Annen berg Auditorium ceptions (and prejudices) ofart. neutralization ofart, the incestuous tomorrow and Thursday evenings. Tomorrow at 7:.30 p.m. "The interlocking structures of museum Hughes has produced more than 30 Threshold of Liberty" will deal with and dealer, the attempts ofconcep· documentary films for television on the surrealistic movement of the tual art. earthworks and body art to the subject of visual arts, ranging twentieth century. Following that, at flee the system, and the fragmenta· from Australian art to Rubens, 8:30p.m., "The View from the Edge" tion of the avant-garde. Caravaggio and Bernini. looks at the ruin of Figurative Ex­Tuesday, November 16 at 7:30 
Tbe Shock ofthe New picks up pressionism during the days of p.m. in Annen berg Auditorium, 
where Jacob Bronowski'sAscent of World War IL Robert Hughes will address the Man and Kenneth Clark's Civiliza­Thursday evening at the same topic of"The Faces of Power: Art tion left off. The series delves times, the two tina! segments in the Politics and Propaganda." 




~j)<J~ts:J:[J:f4.:=i:~~S==============================M=o=n=d=~~'=N=ov=e=m=b=er=B='=I9=8=2==p=a=ge===I3
lh' The Ohsen•er and Tbe Assucitlfed Press 

Aerobic dancing workouts will resume with the Rich Hunter's Irish soccerteam closed out i-ts second session, beginning this week and lasting until December 15. season by beating the University ofToledo, 7-3, yesterday in Toledo, Students can attend the Monday and Wednesday sessions, from 4 to Ohio. Mario Manta and Ken Harkenrider each booted a pair oftallies 4:.30 p.m.; a S3.00 fee will be charged. Faculty and staffsessions will for Notre Dame, which ends its season with a 16-5-2 record. -The be held from 5:1 5 to 5:45 on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and a S12.00 Observer. fee will be charged. -IThe Obseroer. 
The basketball intersquad games have Saint Mary's volleyball team will play Val­

new starting times. The games will be held on Sunday, November 14, paraiso University tonight at 6:30 in the Angela Athletic Facility.
with the women starting at 6 p.m. and the men starting at 7 p.m. 
The Observer. · 

The Obseroer. 
joe Disa and Tom Schreckeach took first place 
honors in events this weekend as the Notre Dame Tae Kwon Do
The SMC varsity swimming and diving 

Club competed in Edwardsburg, Mich. Dave Packo, Manny Arvesu, teamwill have a meeting ofall students interested on Tuesday at Kerry Makao, Pat Weber. -The Observer.
10 p.m. in the AAF lounge.-The Observer. 
Mens' Crew Club members are reminded of aNotre Dame's Mens' Volleyball Club opened its mandatory meeting to be held 8:30 tomorrow night in Lafortune. 
1982-83 season in Elkhart yesterday with four wins and four losses in 

The topic will be a winter workout schedule. -The Observer. USVBA league play. The Irish spikers split matches with the South 
Bend Turners, 13-15 and 1 5-12; host Elkhan 12-15, 15-12; LaPorte 

See SPORTS BRIEFS page 14
15-13, 14-16; and Indianapolis 13-15, 15-6. -The Observer. 


PRINCE OF WALES CONFERENCE Adams Division 

w L T GF GA Pis. ~ Montreal 10 2 3 74 50 23 Boston 7 5 3 51 47 17 Quebec 7 5 1 65 59 15 Buffalo 6 6 3 60 55 15 
I
Hartford 3 9 2 47 49 8­Patrick Division 
N. Y Islanders 11 4 2 75 50 24 Ph1ladelph1a 9 6 65 49 19 NY Rangers 6 8 1 56 61 13 New Jersey 3 8 5 52 66 11 P1t1sburgh 4 10 2 51 81 10 Washington 4 7 2 48 58 10 
CLARENCE CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Smythe Dvision 
w L T GF GA Pis Los Angeles 7 4 3 59 53 17 Edmonton 6 6 3 71 68 15 W1nn1peg 7 5 1 63 48 15 Calgary 6 8 3 77 77 15 Vancouver 6 8 2 55 51 14 
Norris Division Minnesota 10 4 1 65 55 21 Ch1cago 7 2 5 62 49 19 St. LOUIS 7 7 1 55 56 15 Detro1t 3 10 '3 43 73 9 Toronto 2 7 5 46 61 9 
I 

Yesterday's Results l Boston 7. DetrOit 0 Wash1ngton 6. Hartford 2 l Buffalo 3. Vancouver 1 
i

N Y Islanders 2, Philadelphia 2 ChiCago 7. Toronto 3 
~ 

Winn1peg 5. Calgary 2 
Tonight's Games Edmonton at Quebec Washington at New Jersey 
' lctassifieds  The Observer will accept classrfieds Mon­day through Fnday. 1o· a.m. to 4.30 p.m. However. classrtieds to appear rn the next rssue must be rece1ved by 3 p_m. the busrness day pnor to JnsertJon All class1f1eds must be prepa1d. e1ther 1n person or through the ma11.  
Need nde to Kansas City lor ThanksgiV­help need Penn St lix student or GA Call ing Will share usual. Call Demse 1320. Steve. 8670 or 8681NOTICES HELP' I need USC lickets Please call NEED 6 PENN STATE GAs CALL 289­3156 3538 TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 NEED RIDE TO NYC/ Ll AREA FOR PLEASE' NEED PENN ST STUDENT THANKSGIVING--·CAN LEAVE TUES TIX DESPERATELY. W1ll pay$. call 8111TYPING Fast. accurate. reasonable NOV23RD CALL JOHN at3510 OR 8573 287·3538. rates Close to campus. LYNN SAYLOR 233-3423 HELP a poor pnt-med whose genetics flies got into the radietion lab, grew toHAVE YOU READ THE MOST FAMOUS be eight feet tall, got even lor meWALL ON THIS CAMPUS? DO YOU FOR SALE watching them In their privateNEED A HAIRCUT BEFORE YOU ARE "chromosomal duplicetion activities"DEPORTED? DOES YOUR MOTHER by calling me a voyeur and thenDANCE ON TABLES IN A COCKTAIL Technics RS·631 TAPE DECK w/Dotby proceeding to EAT MY PARENTS LOUNGE? IF YOU ANSWERED YES TO $145 call1178 PENN STATE G.A. TIXI Not only 1s theANY ONE OR MORE OF THESE QUES· College of Sc1ence tak1ng me to court. butTIONS CALL TODAY FOR AN AP· my parents w1ll shoot me I need lix! Call POINTMENT: Laurie at 7730 or 7983' GUYS $4, GIRLS $6 MICHOLE AT 7850 NEED TWO TICKETS TO PENN STATE TICKETS GAME WILL PAY$$$!!! CALL LINDA AT 4418 LOST/FOUND WILL PAY BIG MONEY FOR 4 PENN BIG BUCKS FOR 3 GAS FOR PENN STATE GA TIX. CALL 312-565-!5959 STATE (FOR DAD. SIS & ME) CALL COLLECT AND ASK FOR STEVE 3819 LONGLEY.LOST-L1ght brown Jockey jacket 1n AB NEED 2 GAS & STUD PENN STATEline the Fr~day before Break It you have I need Penn State IICkets! Student or GA. TIX! BIG BUCKS CALL 1552. or heard of anyone who may have found 11 Melissa x 1308 could you please call1741 or bring it by HELP! GRANDPARENTS DEFECTED328 Grace before il gets cold outSide Need 2 G.A.Iix tor Penn State game FROM RUSSIA IN TIME TO SEE PENN Parents want to see t~rst NO game ST NEED 4 PENN ST TIX VERY BAD· To the person who took my TIME Please call Nancy 4449 SMC LY! CALL DAVE AT 1914 magazine from the cushJOn nght 1nside I need 1 Penn State Ticket (GA. or Stu·the door to the pay cat on Tuesday-·hey! 1 Wanted: 2 GAs to Penn St Name your wasn 1 finiShed read1ng it yet! Just be· pr~ce. 6849 after 10 pm. dent) Call Mary Pat at 6967 or 6955 cause 11 was on that cushiOn d1dn't mean 11 was tree lor the tak1ng! It you wan! lo NEED PENN STATE GA TIX CALL 1173 I Need 2 PENN STATE GA s Please call redeem yourself you can drop 1t outside Jeff at 1764 my room. My address is on the label s1nce help need Penn St l1x student or GA Call I'm theone who pa1d forthe subscription Steve 8670 or 8681 I Need PENN STATE Student T1x. Please call Jeff at 1764 NEED 6 PENN STATE GAs. CALL289· Lost one black and gold cross pen 3538 For Sale One Penn Sl Student ticket $35 engraved Dame! J. 0 Hare 1f found please Call Paul1947 or 1945 return to 217 grace or call Dan at 1858 What was that? You sa1d you wanted to become Instantly riCh? Then buddy. I'm $$$W1II pay BIG BUCKS lor 2 Penn St LOST: Silver cha1n/small silver cross your tiCket. as long as y all have two lor G A s $$$ (Thurs ·Between Lill & Huddle) ph 1739 me Two Penn st. GA s. that IS. and you Call John at1751 (Joe) know my mass1ve mounds of money Will be more than enough to make you w1sh to Need 4 Penn St GA s or Stud Tkts glasses brown case antials D.O.C call sell them to you Call Extremely Well To desperately.Call J1m 277·1773$$$$$$ Bnan 1 044 reward offered Do Cindy Lou ----Lou at 2948 Need 1 stud licket lor Penn State Call FOUND: Green case of cassen tapes Help· my Mom ts bnngtng '" J1m Mornson Kev1n at 1441 found on New York Metro bus that went and two fnends from the Afncan Cont1nent from New York to South Bend on Sunday. to see the Penn St game Would you hap­NEED 1.2. OR 3 STUDENT OR GA Oct. 31 Call Bill6718 pen PENN STATE TIX MIKE x3571 HELP! Need Penn Stale G A. s or student Need PENN ST. T1x real bad Will pay t1xs Call 2773 GOOD BUCKS for 2 student TIX ana 2 GAs CaU Gary at 1152 FOR RENT CJesperately need 1 student t1c. for VISiflnQ g~rllnend tor Penn St. $$$ Call Jeff at Need 3 PENN ST GAs Wtll Pay B1g 1026. Bucks Call Pete 8682 Student Hous1ng . Clean · Safe. $100/mo 291·1405 HELP! NEED 4 PENN STATE GAS! WANTED DESPERATELY:! PENN ST PLEASE CALL SHEILA 289-9304 STUD OR GACALL WILL 282·1 026 Needectto share rent UnfurniShed Apl located on Jefferson S1s and her RICH Harvard lnends coming GOTSTA HAVE PENN ST GAs PLEA$E ariC S 26th St. GR male student wants to ow to see a real football game Need PSU CALL1738 share 2·bedroom apt. $120 month plus T1x Chris 1181 electriCity 234·9599 NEED 1 STUDENT AND/OR 2 GAs FOR HELP1I NEED 4 PENN ST GAs · CALL PENN STATE Ca11Ted(1155). Rooms lor Rent. Full Bath. K1tchen. Sep BRYAN8789 Entrance. Park1ng Sale Neighborhood need 2 Penn State GAs x1105 232·3477 NEEDED 5 Penn St Slds lor VISiting ex· con and fnends. These guys are mean HELP!I Folks DRIVING from MONTANA Please help' Call M1ke 3375 to see Penn Stale game NEED 2 gas Call 277-2630 or 239·5688 Gwyn NEED PENN ST TJX CALL MIKE 287·WANTED 4225 FELLOW CALIFORNIANS I NEED ALL OF YOUR N.D U S C FOOTBALL TICK· NEED 2 PENN STATE GA SCALL x1610 ETS WILL PAY ANY REASONABLE NEED RIDE TO MINNEAPOLIS MN (OR ASK FOR RICH AMOUNT OF MONEY CALL DAN AT AREA) FOR THANKSGIVING WILL 1858. . SPLIT COST CALL STEVE 1027 Wanted: 2 GAs to Penn St Name your pnce. 6849 aher 1 0 pm HelpIll LITTLE BrlOTHER NEEDS TWO RICH alumm need lour Penn GAs Call STUDENT OR GA'S FOR PENN STATE. 283-3307 NEED PENN STATE GA TIX CALL 1173 PLEASE CALL KEVIN 8817  NEED! TWO PENN ST TICKETS PAY GOOD MONEY. CALL MIKE x8705 HELPIJI NEED 6 GA OR STUDENT TICKETS FOR PENN STATEIJI Brothers want to see one gameI Please call Ann at33680-ThanksI WANTED 1 OR 2 Penn State IICkels, stu· dent or GA. FRANK 277·8649 NEED4 PITT GAS. Call Jeff at 277-0482 NEED 4 PENN ST GA·s. Call Jeff at 277· 0482 I NEED 1 PENN ST TICKET OF ANY KIND Please call Bob 277·6880 Want to be nch and famous. or at least nch? I need 10 Penn State t1ckets and Will pay much $$$for them. even more tor 4 or more together. Call Paul at 1077 INDEPENDENTLY WEALTHY SIS needs 1 PENN STATE GA or STUD BIG TIME MONEY is no problem CALL Ross at 1898 NEED MONEY: Will pay b1g $$ lor any tickets, student or GA. Call B1ll 2197 My voluptuous hnle SISter slill needs PENN ST !IX, stud & GAs Were talkmg diG$$$ (and no date) JOE 1652 NEEDED: 5 GAs or STU s tor Penn St Call Tom x1723. I NEED 3 PENN ST. TJX. PLEASE CALL ERIC AT 3663 SAVE YOURSELF THE HEADACHE ONE CALL WILL GET YOU TOP DOL· LAR lor PENN STATE GA S. call 272­7152 DESPERATELY NEED GA TIX FOR PENN STATE CALL 6803 NEED 2 or 4 GAs tor Penn St Call Week· d•ys collect 312-887-0700. Call mghls & weekends collect 312·266-0471 Ask tor Mark PLEASE HELP A STUDENT IN DIRE NEED OF PENN ST TICKETS CALO DAN AT 8900 PLEASE HELP! NEED 2 PENN GA MAURA X2244 I need 1 Penn State student tiC or GA. Call 1261 Need 1 or 2 STUDENT or GAs call Steve at 1473 NEED PENN ST GAs BIG TIME! $$$ CALL 1627 SQUIRE Need B1lly Sqwre 11ckels real bad Anyone wllh lickets please call $$$$ Dav1d 277 · 3823. PERSONALS I am the Lizard King I can do anything Saturday night WOMEN S CAUCUS meeting on Monday at 6:30 2nd floor LaF.,.,unell' JOHN MCGRATH -YOUR BOUND VOLUME IS FINALLY DONE. YOU KNOW WHERE YOU CAN PICK IT UP. SHIRLEY S! Ed s Cenlenmal Week November 13·21 TALK IT UPIIJIIII  Stone walls do not a prison make Heyp1nk. nor iron bars a cage Let me know anyllffie you want to M-A·S­Uoyd and Marty H. Err. I mean watch 1t 8JG IS A RADICAL ATTENTION MENOFN.D !!! St. Ed sand Howard ARE YOU LONELY? You may be in !he playoffs. but any LOOKING FOR FUN? lime you want to play a real football game NEED A PLACE TO SPEND call Keenan THANKSGIVING? M1ss Manpat H offers youthechanceot a Muns1er hie nme · yes you can spend Thanksgiv· Munster 1ng 'Nith her In lact."the more the mer· MUNSTER ner!" ??? GIVE HER A CALL Dear St.Ed's-Thanks lor "dOgging" so your "buddies" in H-ard can "Join" you in IT HAS BEEN ABOUT A WEEK NOW. theplayons AND EVERYONE HAS HAD AMPLE OP· PORTUNITY TO SEE RITAS NEW Tom Kelly -nice playon system --e JACKET !! IF BY SOME ODD TWIST OF you that Impressed with the "split FATE. YOU HAVE NOT BEEN SO season" concept olabualng Cincy? LUCKY. HE WILL BE DISPLAYING HIS NEW PURCHASE IN LAFORTUNE EVERY DAY THIS WINTER AND FOR SENIOR CLASS BLOCK PARTY THIS MANY TO COME. FROM 11 AM UNTIL FRJ NOV 12 COME MEET THE NE HE GOES HOME OR IS REQUESTED NEIGHBORHOOD TO DO SO BY SOME PERSON OF AUTHORITY IF YOU CANNOT COME DURING ANY OF THE ABOVE MEN· Yea, you heard correctly. St. Edward's TIONED TIMES. YOU CAN SEE OR Hall Ia celebrating Ita 1DOth Anniver­CALL HIM FOR A PERSONAL AP· sary. 1882-1982. An entire -k of POINTMENT AT YOUR CONVEINCE riotoua tun will ensue In the near DON T MISS THIS GREAT OPPOR· future. TALK IT UPIJIII TUNITY TO ENHANCE YOUR LIFE. GRADES. AND SELF IMAGE­ALSO Wan! to be a star? Wan! lo be dts· GREAT FOR RESUMES AND HAIR covered? Are you sure that all you need •s GROWTH!' your chance on stage? Well. now s your chance! OPEN Auditiona tor EIGHT one act playr Wednesday. Nov 10, and AND NOW CLUE No f OF THIS Thursday. Nov 11. 1n The Underground WEEKS GUESS THE CAVANITE CON· 1n Washington Hall Watch lor the ad 1n TEST. THE PANTS GO IF THE IRISH Tuesdays Observer' Be There'!' DONT!!!!! F1ng. What did you say? Its your birthday" MJ.­Have a great day! Merry one~month!! Love Heres to hay. kahlua. nearly lost con­The other double E tacts. 1llegal V1Sttat10n. )etters. leather ChiC. Helen stuffed mammals. and schmaltz..oh. and lullilled expectat1ons (hee hee) Your cohort 1n frozen lalkng H20 Thank God for a Fnend! Send·a·Prayer today' LeMans Lobby 10-5 Mr Chns BOGIE McKenna-­C1ndyG.. Been lost or to Dennys lately? Well. such Oh, 1f all those Domer guys jus! knew IS life' Hello/Chow anyway! all you ve got to offer! You are one SMC er Ms ROTC PUNK 1982 who all men should get to KNOW better Some ol us know better. however 11 only Juhe, typ1ng room walls could Jalkl!! Your LETS GO FOR ITt THANKSGIVING "talents should be procla1med from tthe IS ONLY lU DAYS AWAY. WE'Ll GET top ol the Dome bul maybe 1t's beter left TO 5ll YET! to the 1magmat10n Lovcsuunnc Your Freshman Fhng. "Click To:QuadotKONG JELLYBEAN From: V V s There are mountains in our way, but Re. Recenr complaints d~rected toward we climb a atep every day._ !he lack of commumcat10n between V. V s Y.B.B.M. 1nc and KONG. Inc. Well. boys, the nights are gen1ng longer Watch torthe EXORCIST HEIS com1ng and coider don·c you agree? Please we entreat you. have p1ty on us poor, help­Hey Babe, Thanks lor be1ng there!' Hap· less. LONELY. 1nnocen1 Freshmen and py ·2·!! You are my best fnend Love Ya!! bnng us at KONG to keep us warm! We littleMark1e awa1t your well-researched replys and are IOOk1ng forward to the birthday ATTN: FreeZing No CalifOrnians· Lets celebratiOn Start1ng Saturday, 222 comm1serate together· ATTEND the SF McCandless will rock the CASBAH!!! BAY AREA CLUB MEETING WED. 7:30 ·buS ph. 284·5422 2-D LaFortune. ? Call Leslie 2918 KWICKI· John, Congrats on fm1shmg another great hock· How much??? ey season I hope you have the same luck Kandi sw1mmtng th1s w1nter Speak•ng of Winter. I hope 11 warms up soon· I th1nk I'm Q: Where do !hey keep some olthe leners trostbd! tor alphabet soup 1n lriCiana? MAR A: In the LCart, of course. we·re cold too! PIGGY & MOO-MOO Moose are elegant  

--------------------------------·-····------­
t The Observer 



covers green 
The rushing offreshman tailback Allen Pinkett was a key to Satur­llay's upset of the Pitt Panthers at Pitt Staaium. Pinkett gainea 115 yaras on 10 carries, inclulling touchllowns of74 ana seven yaras, his fourth and fifth TDs of the season. (Photo by Rachel Blount) 
'\Ukl: [ ..·&-1U \.-,JI'\f 1Hkf'\, 

C()IWHIJNIICAIJII()N 
~----0 JlriEAIJ~E 
'~\~()~I()A\,/ If/IlL~\ ~1(11:2111(~ ll ~ 
THE LONG GOODBYE (1973) Robert Altman, USA, color, cinemascope,112 min. Raymond Chandler's Philip Marlowe. a slumming angel who inv•ts 
the sun-blinded streets of Los Angeles with a romantic presence. becomes less romantic and more cynical when he runs smack into the psychedelic '60s in Altman's sophisticated updating of this hard ·boiled saga a of friendship, love and betrayal. 
Annent:Jerg Aud.,SniteMuseum Admission 2
"---lr~u ~ 11~13 ltnr1pm $ · o o ~ 
0 
0 • 
. . 

Monday, November 8, 1982 page 14 
'Echoes' misses Devine inspiration 
Thoughts that enter and exit whitt battling to stay awake in constitutional law: Although "Wake Up tht Echots," telecast nationally by CBS on Sunday, was entertaining; enlightening and 

moving, it boggles tht mind to think that anyont put­ting together a documentary on Notrt Damt football could fail to mention Dan Devine. If the writers and producers of tht program had checked Notrt Dame's coaching totab, they would have found Devine t<>urth on the all-timt list, right bthind some guy namtd Ltahy. Thret Irish victorks during tht Dcvint tra -tht 1977 "green jersey" win over l!SC, the incrtdihle 19-9 Cot­ton Bowl comthack against Houston and Harrv Oliver's 1980 miracle at tht expenst of \-lichigan -wtll certain­ly stand among "'otrt Dame's most mtmorable tri­umphs of all time. And, although manv of vou may be too young to remember what it was like, Devine's 19~­team won the :'-lational Championship. 
Maybe Gerry Faust won with too much regularity at \1oeller High School. I! is apparent inability to deal with losing in a gracious manner has btcomt an tmbarrass­ment to Notre Dame and its alumn-i. Faust's attempts to ·~xplain away disappointing perfromancts with fethle 
•:xcuses do mort to tarnish tht llnivtrsity's image than could anything his players might do on tht tkld. 
Barring perfl>rmances in its remaining thrte games :;imilar to its "Gong Show" act against Notrt Dame, it appears that Michigan is going w the Rose Bowl. Snore. Instead of sending Bo's Bores to Pasadena to comract a severe case of air sickness from whichever Pac Ten team passes thc:m silly, let's make the Rose Bowl an ex­clusively Pac Ten affair. It would be simple enough to do -just pit the best team on NCM probation (USC, Arizona State or Oregon) against the best ofthe rest. 
I hope every collegt coach who has lobbied for the institution of a shot clock was watching Wednesday 
KINGS C,~ L~.AR 
• 



WINE TASTING 
Sample ouer ISO Different Wines at 
ttA-WORLD ()f WINES Ill" 

presented.by 

KING'S CELLAR for the Benefit of the Muscular Dystrophy Association $5 Donation for 1wine and cheese 
(all you ca1•e to try) 
THURS. NOV. II 5:00p.m. to 9:30p.m. NOTRE DAME A.C. C. 
Fortickets orinformation call 133-4603 oruisit any Kings Cellar 
or Convenience Liquor Location 
Sports Writer 

night's :"/BA game between Detroit artd Chicago. The Pistons won -in regulation -I';2-I4-J. Add a javelin and a couple of hurdles, and somebody who happened to stumble into the Pontiac Silverdome would have thought he walked in on the Drake Relays. 
P-".: In case you haven't ..:aught the Pistons' Kcllv Tripucka lately, don't worrY. ht· hasn't changtd a bit lft:'s still got hb perm. he still hustle.~ ;md he sti11 thinks he hasn't committed a foul in his life. 
While we're on the subject of tht "'BA, the most ob­noxious sight in an obnoxious league ha.~ to be lht· prima donna players, who at'tt-r a disagretable call, simply put tht hall down on tht tloor rather than tos­sing It to an otlkial. Some ot thtc· cla.~sier players will walk to midcourt bdore plal'ing the ball on the tloor. P'c::rhaps the oftkials, instead of tossing tht ball to players waiting to shoot frte throws, should just drop tht ball on tht basdine undtr till' basket. 
Does the NFL rtally think fans in Baltimore, Chicago and Foxboro, Mass. will pay to watch those teams in the middle ofjanuary? 
Why did it take bastball's owners 1.) years to get rid ofBowie Kuhn? 
What is the NHL saying about itself when -in a supposed crackdown on violence -it suspends a player for eight games for an attack that would con­stitute attempted murder anyplace on the continent outside ofan NHL arena? 

Threegridunbeatens 
•


rematn 
B_y HERSCHEL NIS­
SENSON 
Associated Press 
Southern Methodist, Georgia and Arizona State form college football's ruling troika afttr a weekend of up­sets. 
Saturday's action also saw LSU storm back into the ranks ofthe elite whik gttting Btar Bryant to mumble about retiring. 
The list of unbeaten-untied major teams shrank to three when tltth­ranked Arkansas fell to Baylor 24-I 7 while Notrt Dame was toppling No. I Pittsburgh. 
That left the race for No.1 in this week's Associated Prtss poll looming as a thrtt-way battle among second-ranked SMU, a 41-14 winner over Rice; No.) Georgia, which thrashed "'o.20 Florida 44-0; and 
fourth-rattd Arizona State, which came from behind tff"turn back win· 


less Ortgon State .~0-16. 
However, nipping at the heels ot the big three are sixth-ranked Nebraska, which walloptd Ok· lahoma Statt 48-10, and No. ., Penn State, which buried North Carolina State 54-0. And don't overlook unbeaten-but-tied No. I I LSU, the nation's tOp-rattd defensive team, which throttled No.8 Alabama 20­10, a licking which Bryant termed "the best heating we've had since the '60s." 
Bryant, college football's winnin­gest coach with -'22 triumphs in -'H years, said he would inform Alabama's president "in a heck of a hurry that we need to make some changes, need to start at the top." 
Elsewhere, IOth-ranked Washing­ton edged No.9 UCLA I 0-7, No.12 Florida State swamped South Carolina 56-26, No. I-' Clemson shaded No. 18 North Carolina 16-1 3, No.14 Oklahoma beat Kansas State 24-10, No.I 5 Michigan defeated IJ. linois 16-10, No.l6 Southern California clobbered California 42­0, No.l7 West Virginia squeaked past Temple 20-1..., and No. 19 Maryland nipped Miami 18-1'7. 
Georgia got "ont of my best ones" from Herschd Walker, who rushed for 219 yards on -'S carries. 

. . . Sports Briefs  
continuellfrompage 13 Wednesday is the deadline to register teams for interhall basketball (mens' and womens' ), club basketball, grad basketball, imerhall hockey and open squash. -The Observer. The Fellowship of Christian Athletes are sponsoring an evening with ND womens' tennis coach Sharon Petro. The meeting will be held in the Memorial Library lounge at 8 p.m. Wednesday. FCA promotes Christian fellowship among athletes and coaches in the hope that this will he shared with the larger com­munity. -the Observer. There will be no superstars available when baseball's free agent class of 1982 goes up t(>r bid Wednesday, but thert are some plums available tor teams willing to invest some money. The biggest names in tht bunch are Seattle pitcher Floyd Bannister, designattd hitters Hal !\1cRae of Kansas City and Don Baylor of California, and Steve Garvey of Los Angeles. -AP  


r.... 

···~~ 


The Observer Monday, November 8, 1982 -page 15 
--------------------------------------------------------------~ 

Farley shuts out PE, -wins--wotnen's title 
By SUSAN SOLOMINIK and, on the other, a touchdown. Sports Writer A penalty called back a Packer pass for long yardage, while another 
"Farley's Finest," the womens' in­flag called back a Farley score. East terhall football squad from Farley proceeded to hold Farley scoreless Hall, lived up to their nickname last from the four-yard line. For PE, night, by defeating Pasquerilla East, though, the break came too late as H-0, in the title game of the flag foot­they took over on its own one-yard ball season at Cartkr Field. line with less than two minutes left 
The teams exchanged po~session in the game. 
for most of the llrst half, neither side The Farley coaches agreed that 
'uccccding in moving the ball. defense won the game. 
With about 10 minutes remaining "This was a very diftkult season. in the halt~ Farley took over on of­All of the teams that played had ex­fense and marched up the tield with cellent defenses," said the head 
Mark ZaL•agnin (46) and Bob Clasby (center) day's 31-16 .Votre Dame u•in The Irish defense 
a~surance. Farlt·) scored on a tlea­coach. "It was defense that decided 
stack up Pittsburgh tailback Bry·an Thomas (44) stopped Ibis Pantber drit'e at the four-van/ line.
t1icker play, and added a two-poim most ofthe games this ~cason." 
near the goa/line in the second quarter ofSatur-forcing them to settle for a field J:.Oal.
conversion to assume an H-0 lead 
they would not relinquish. 
PE came hack. but the farley defense hung tough, foiling the PE surge by hrcakmg up several con­secuti\·e passe~. When Pasquerilla 
When a good friend borrows 
went for the yards on a tiJUrth down. 
the Farley rush got through to sa<:k 
yourcar,the tank maynotcome backfull.
the PE quarterback An East interception killed the ini­tial Farley drive of the second half, 




-But the trunkdoes. 
and the defense;, proceeded to rake 
over tor the n:malndn of the game. 
The game wJs phy~1cal -rough 
pl;1y GIUst·d the rdt.-rees ro issue 
warnings to hot'h sides. 
Breaks for ead1 side tooh. away. on 
one hand. a potential scormg drive 
Wolverines edge lllini; OSUwins 
ByJOE MOOSHIL 
Associated Press 
Michigan's Wolverine t s escaped 
from Champaign with their scalps in 
place and now are only one victory 
away from the Big Ten football 
championship and a trip to Pasadena 
for the Rose Bowl. 
After allowing a school record 
515 yards on offense. the Wol­
verines ~topped Dwight Beverly 
cold on the 2-yard-line with 23 
second~ to play Saturday to clinch a 
16-l0 victory over Illinois. 
The triumph gave llrst-place 
Michigan a -:'-0 record In the con­
ference and 7-2 overall. .\1ichigan 
can clinch everything with a victory 
over Purdue nell.l Saturday -and 
that would make the season-ending 
showdown against Ohio State vir­
......

tually meaningle~s. 
Ohio State moved into sole pos­
session ofsecond place, boosting its 
record tu 5-1 record by thumping 
Minne~ota 35-10. But there were 
surprises m the other three Big Ten 
games Samrday. 
Doug Smith's ~2-yard tleld goal in­
to a stilt' wind lifted Indiana to a 20­
l-victon· over Wisconsin; 
Northwestern came back from a 17­
point dcllcit to defeat Michigan State 
28-2-I on a halthad.-ro-quartcrhack 
touchdown pass, and Tim Clark 
booted three tleld goals to give 
Purdue a 16--:" victory over Iowa. 
The b1ggest los~ wa~ ~uffered by 
Illinois. Not onlv did the lllini drop 
our of the title and Rose Bowl race. 
hut a victon· O\'tT \lich1gan would 
have a~-;ured the lllrni nt a spot in rhc 
presttgiou~ Garor Bowl. 
lllmo1s ;.til! has a chance for .1 
\Vhen you get paid back vv:ith 

b<,wl htd wnh a winJup vkrory O\'t:r 
interest like this, it sort of makes you

Indian.! r.cxt Saturday, but as Tt>ny 
Eason plH it: "I just hope the young 
wish he'd borrow things more often. 

kids realize how dose \VC were. A 
Open up a few cold ones 

field goal to Ohio State, one pomt to 
Iowa and two yards to .\1ichigan." 

and toast a guy who really 

The question w~ to pass or run 
k.I1ows how to return a favor. 

on Illinois· final play from 
Tonight, let it be

scnmmage in the tourrh-and·two 
snuation. Eason. who had mb:.ed on 
Lowenbrau. 

two of three pn:viOU!> attempt!> al­
though he finished with 28 comple­tions tiJr 2""2 yards. favored the run. 

Lowenbrau. Here's tog~!!~!!!!:!!~~~
So did Coa<.·h :\like White. who figured .\lichigan would he expect­ing the pass. 
. ...,. 

" ;...·_....., '"'-'· "*''·-A•~~"'•• .-!"~ ·M._w ....~.-., ......•. •'--'-.:---·~ ..•. ,.: .._·.,.•.._~ ......'t.-IL.4.:...,.._,;,;......;:;J..._... -;.;._::~~-:-'""l~-...;...~·$~i..· ..,~,.,-----'-',;,......~ -··-a-.1 
The Observer Monday, November 8, 1982 -page 16 

Mickud Mc:b~ 11<7~ 'Witd1l<J~ 
Includes 
I Keep Forgettm' Playm· By The Rules 
If That's What It Takes 
WARNER BROS. 
MENATWORK 
BUSINESS AS USUAL 
including. Who Can It Be Now?/Down Under People Just Love To Play With Words Be Good Johnny/Down By The Sea 

aAt BILLY SQUIER
JOHN COUGAR 

Emotions In Motion 
American Fool 

featuring Emotions In Motion· Everybody Wants You It Keeps You Rockln' ·Keep Me Satisfied 


Albums Only-~­

• 


BILLY JOEL 
E NYLON CURTAIN 
1ncludmg: Pressure /Allentown She's Right On Time 
F1oom ()j Our Own/ Goodmght Sa1gon 

THE STEVE MILLER BAND a.;.,., Abracadabra 
featuring Abracadabra· Keeps Me Wondering Why Cool Magic · Something Special 
CAPITOL 

DAN FOGELBERG GREATEST HITS 
includmg: Missing You/Make Love Stay/Longer Hard To Say/Leader Of The Band 


-------~-~------~

-The Observer Monday, November 8, 1982 -page 1 7 

NFL talkscurtailed; 7th "Week "Wiped out 
NEW YORK ( AP) -With the col­lapse again of the strike negotiations and the existence of the National Football League's 1982 season in serious doubt, the focus shifts today from the bargaining table to the courtroom. 
Mediator Sam Kagel returned home to San Francisco Sunday after recessing the talks Saturday night, the second time in two weeks he had called a halt to the proceedings. Each time, economic issues locked the two sides far apart. 
With Sunday's games called off and Monday night's San Diego at Miami game also off, seven weeks of the season have been wiped out by 
... leers 

continuedfrom page 20 
Bowie and Thebeau were able to play, but they weren't as effective as usual." 
The difference between Satur­the 48-day-old strike. Jack Donlan. the owners· chief negotiator, said the could see the rest of the season slipping away weekly. So could some of the player representatives still at the midtown Manhattan hotel where the talks were conducted for eight days before breaking off. 
Previously, it had been the union's stance that, regardless of the state of the season at this point, all 16 games would be played and all the players would be paid. Now, there appears to be slippage. 
"Their actions in effect cancelled the season," said Mark Murphy, the Washington Redskins' player rep and a member of the union's ex­ecutive committee. Elvin Bethea, the Houston Oilers' player rep, said. "They are sacrificing the season and seeing it go up in smoke." 
An announcement by the Manage­ment Council, the owners' negotiat­ing team, to make available to the 
1.500 striking players a 4. 5 page summary of its latest 75-page com­pilation of proposals drew a strong reaction from the union. 

Notre Dame left wing Kirt Bjork ( 10) collides (22) at the WMU blue line in Friday's 2-0 win for with Western Michigan defenseman David Bina the Broncos at theACC. (Photo by Ed Carroll) 
day's game and the past four would have to be the team's discipline on the ice. Defensively play was more cohesive and aware. and the forechecking was solid and consis­tent. 
"I was very pleased with Satur­day's play," admined Smith. "We made a couple of adjustments and began moving the puck extremely well. Our passing was the best it's been all year, as we were able to move the puck around very well, opening up the lanes on our power play, which was much improved. If we had hit a couple of open shots, we could have had 3 or 4 more goals. When we were down a man, we played very well. 
"The difference between Friday and Saturday nights was like night and day. 
"Friday we moved around too much," said Smith. "We weren't playing our position in a disciplined manner. We have to play in a very disciplined fashion of hockey ­staying in the lanes, covering checks -and we weren't doing that Friday night. 
"We weren't staying in our lanes offensively -we'd shoot from the point or offthe side, and all three for­wards would be on one side. We have to be spread out so we can cover the entire net. We did this Saturday, which helped us to pick up a couple of goals. Both of Metzler's goals, Parsons' goal, and Doman's goal, were a direct result of being more disciplined in offense position­ing. 
"All in all, it was a tough series. Western Michigan has a very good goaltender and he had himselfa very good series," said Smith. "They're big, very physical, and skate well, but I think that other than Bowling Green and Michigan State, you can throw everyone into a big hat and whoever happens to play well that particular night will win. 1t is a very competitive race, and at the same time I'm rather surprised that Bowling Green and Michigan State are really not blowing people out. They're only winning by a couple of goals, so we may end up with a 12­team league with everybody knock­ing everybody else off." 
The Irish face the University of lllinois-Chicago next weekend at the UIC Pavilion. The injury situa­tion is improving as Tadd Tuomie and Tony Bonadio are expected hack today, while X-rays on Sean Regan lO he taken tomorrow are ex­pected to shed some light onto his situation. 
"We may have so many players next week, that we may not know what to do with them," quipped Smith. One doubts if that will ever he one of Lefty's less pleasant problem's. 


E·Systems continues the tradition of the world's great problem solvers. 
Unquestionably, Leonardo da Vinci possessed one of the world's great minds. Not only re­nowned as a painter and sculp­tor, da Vinci also applied his exceptional talents to the me­chanics of flight, to cartography for planning military campaigns, and even astronomy. 
Today, scientists and engi­neers at E-Systems continue the tradition by expanding the practi­cal application of advanced tech­nology. E-Systems uses the principles of flight mechanics as the basis for major modifications sophisticated guidance and com­mand and control systems, and has designed and built a sys­tem that greatly expands man's ability to study the universe. 

That's only a small seg­ment of the tough problems E-Systems engineers solve in the area of antennas, communi­cations, data acquisition, pro­cessing, storage and retrieval systems and other systems ap­plications for intelligence and re­connaissance -systems which are often the first of a kind in the world. 
For a reprint of the da Vinci illustration and information on ca­reer opportunities with E-Systems in Texas, Florida, Indiana, Utah, and Virginia, write: Dr. Lloyd K. Lauderdale, Vice President Research and Engineering, E-Systems, Inc., Corporate Headquarters, P 0. Box 226030, Dallas, Texas 75266. 

E-SYSTEMS 
The problem solvers. 
r 
The Observer Faust learns 
Variety is the spic:e of life 


Pitt quarterback Dan Marino compiled slats on 
Saturday -26-of-42for 314yards -buthadhisconsecutivegame 
TD pass streak ended at 19games and was rendered ineffectif}e by a 
swarming Notre Dame defense, which sacked him three times (Photo by Rachel Blount) 
PITT~BURGH -Trying to analyze this Notre Dame football team could drive even Sigmund Freud to a padded cell. 
Two weeks ago, the Irish couldn't even beat the Northwestern of the Northwest (a.k.a. Oregon); here on Saturday, they were world-beaters. 
The stunning 31-16 upset ofNo.1 Pitt was the kind of effort that Irish fans had been praying for, but had not received, the past eight weeks -perfect execution, no 
7' mistakes, a little imagination and, ofcourse, a lot ofluck. 
Where this particular team has been the last few weeks is not certain, but we've come to realize that this 1982 Irish team has more personalities than Sybil. 
Fortunately for the Irish, their best side emerged on Saturday, and just in the nick of time. A loss may have sent this season, and perhaps a coach or two, down the tubes. 
There are two reasons for this sudden resurrection. First, for one of the few times this season, Coach Gerry Faust had all his best players on the field at once. playing their normal positions, and in good health. Center Mark Fischer, injured in the Michigan State game, returned with a flourish and was a force in the trenches. His presence allowed Toin Thayer to go home to his quick guard position, at which he was a pre-season All­America selection, from his four-week assignment at 
I 
I center. Saturday's performance showed that both Larry Moriarty and Kevin Griffith are back to full strength.
• .,. 
Moriarty made a key reception to set up NO's first touchdown and later burst through a Grand Canyon­sized hole to put the Irish in position to put the game 
away in the fourth quarter. Meanwhile, Griffith con­tributed 14 tackles and was a menace all day long. 
And when we talk about having the best players in the lineup, that, unfortunately, does not include Phil Carter, but should include Allen Pinkett. It took Faust until the middle of the second quarter to get Pinkett into the game, and all the freshman did was gain 112 yards on 
·just 10 carries, including a breathtaking 76-yard TD scamper to give the Irish breathing room at 24-16. 
The sudden downfall of Carter is one of those tragic ironies that always pop up when a new phenom emerges and the veteran is eased out as a result. Just two years ago, after gaining .255 yards in a game at Michigan State, Carter was ticketed for superstardom; in the last tour games he has managed just 92 yards, and now seems a step too slow. Speed is king in college football 
_'> these days, and Carter has gotten lost in the shuffle. 
But you'll never hear a complaint from him; he'll al­ways be ready to do his share when called upon. His role ofdeception on the flea-flicker pass toJoe Howard -faking a sweep, then pitching the ball back to Blair Kiel -was executed flawlessly. 
For his contributions over the last four years alone, Carter deserves the starting assignment next week against Penn State in his last home game. But look for Pinkett to do most of the ballcarrying. 
I 
The second reason for NO's turnaround on Saturday was, yes, some good, fearless, nothing-to-lose, go-for­broke playcalling. The Kiel-to-Carter-to-Kiel-to­Howard 54-yard TD play was the most obvious product of the new liberalism -perhaps Faust and his staff also 
I -
got the message not to "stay the course" -but some other plays also were indicative of newfound offensive imagination: 
•Kiel threw a second-quarter pass to Moriarty down the middle. good for 30 yards. Like the flea-flicker, it 
was designed specifically for the Pitt game by Offensive Coordinator Tom Lichtenberg and, also like the flea­flicker, it came on first down, one ofseven times in the game that the Irish attempted to throw on first down. Will wonders never cease' 
Pinkett's 76-yarder. Jc:ff Casper, who filled in for Flynn returning punts, fumbled one in the second quarter that helped set up NO's first touchdown, and was ineffective otherwise. 
In all, Notre Dame was good when it had to be on Saturday -good ext:cution, good coaching and good fortune. That combination, as it has so often in the past, sent still another No. I team to defeat and sent the campus into a toilet-paper frenzy for the first time since the Irish basketball victory over Virginia in February, I98I. It's been two years -the i -0 victory at Alabama in November, 1980 -since the football team set off that kind ofcelebration. 
Unfortunately, or perhaps fortunately, there is no time to gloat over thi~. one. Pittsburgh is a great football team, but an even bt'tter tt:am -Penn State -visits Notre Dame next we•~k. A perfect elfort is needed, and whether or not the Irish come up with one remains to be seen. 
But at least now we know it is possible. 

continuedfrom page 20 

back. But his sure-fire touchdown pass to Dawkins was batted down beautifully by Chris Brown, and Pitt had to settle for Eric Schubert's third field goal of the game to close the gap to I7-16. 
Once more, Marino drove Pitt downfield, to the ND 33, but his second-down pass was caught, then fumbled, by Dawkins. By the time Pinkett was finished showing off, it 
continuedfmm page 20 

"I had gotten a little discouraged about that draw play," explained the Sterling Park, Va. native, "because we had run it many times without success. 
"What I was looking for was the cutback. When I cut back, there were two guys standing there. I stopped, hesitated, and con­centrated on going north and south ... getting through the funnel. 
"Then I smelled the goal line," added Pinkett. "I had to get it." 
And when the offense wasn't on the field getting points, the Irish defense was busy getting to Pitt quarterback Dan Marino. The senior slinger did complete 26-of-42 cosses for 314 yards, but saw his string of 19 straight games with a TD pass halted. 
"We prepared for him like any other quarterback," said safety Joe Johnson. "We didn't let his statistics get to us. We confused him a lot with all our stunts and movement, and when he's confused, he's just not ef­fective." 
"We'd start to go out on the wide receivers," added linebacker Mike Larkin, "then come back in, and he'd call time out. He's good, but not as good as he thinks he is. I think we've faced better." 
But there have been no better vic­tories for Faust and his staff then Saturday's :H -I6 triumph. "This has 
• • .Upset 
was 31-I6 and the scene at Pitt Stadium was reminiscent of Two Minute Warning -mass evacua­tion to the exits. 
"Our kids played their hearts our today," said Irish Coach Gerry Faust in a jubilant and cramped Notre Dame locker room. "We've had to overcome some adversity the last few weeks but I think we gained back some respectability today." 
Thanks co a more-than­
respectable tailback, Allen Pinkett. 
to go down as one of the best, espe­cially since we had our backs to the wall a little bit," admitted Faust. 
"It's been a tough week for us. It was cold practicing all week, and on Tuesday, the lights went out on our practice field and we couldn't throw the ball. The kids had to really sacrifice-it wasn't much fun." 
Until Saturday, that is. 

Isn't it a Pitt-ty? 
Saturday's Game 
Notre Dame  0  10  0  21  31  
Plltsburgh  3  3  7  3  16  
Scoring  

PITT-Schubert 48 FG 
PITT-Schubert 22 FG ND-Johnston 38 FG ND-Monarty 3 run (Johnston 1<1ck) 
PITT-Thomas 1 run (Schubert k1ck) 
NO -Howard 54 pass from Kiel (Johnston k•ck) 
PITT-Schubert 48 FG 
NO -P1nkett 76 run (Johnston k1ck) 
ND -Pmkett 7 run (Johnston kiCk) 
NO Pitt 
F~rstdowns 10 25 Rush1ng attempts 33 46 Net Yards Rush1ng 197 124 Net Yards P assmg 126 314 Passes camp-attempted 6·15-26·42 Had Intercepted 0 0 Total Net Yards 323 438 Fumbles-lost 0·0 6-2 Penalt1es-yards 5-36 4-30 Punts-average 8·43 6 6-40 3 Individual Leaders 
RUSHING -Notre Dame. P1nkett 10·112. Monarty 9·55. Howdrd 1·18. Carter 6 10. Pittsburgh Thomas 27·93. McCall6-18. Mclntyre6 17. 
PASSING-Notre Dame K,el6·15-0. 126. P1tts· burgh Manno26·42·0. 314 
RECEIVING-Notre Dame Hunter 2·16. Howard 1·54, Monany 1·30. P1nkett 1·17 HaywoOd 1·9. P1tts· burgh. Collins 8·109 Dawkms 4·47 McCall 4·69. Thomas 3-29. Mconty1e 3·9. W1lson 2·16 Compton 1-20 Williams 1·15. Attendance -60.162 

... Mystique 

Freshman Allen Pinkett prepares to burst run that put Notre Dame·con:fortably ahead. .!4­through a gaping hole openedby Center!Ifark Fis· 16, in thefourtb quarterSaturda)•. The Irish went cher (57) and fullback Larry ll.foriarty (39), on to upset Pill. j 1-16. (Photo by Rachel Blount) among others, en route to his 76-yard touchdown 
--~--------------~~---~ 
~~[================~==~================ 








~~4()l~~============================M=o=n=d=a=y='=N=o=v=em==b=e=r=8=,J=9=8=2====p=a=ge==1=9
Doonesbury 


Simon~· 



Garry Trudeau 


Campus 
•12 
p.m. -Video Tape Presentation, "The Last Epidemic," 101 Law School, Sponsored by NO Chapter of Lawyers Alliance For Nuclear Arms Control 

•12:15 
p.m. -Workshop, "Argentina: The Continuing Crisis," Dr. Guillermo O'Donnell, Library Lounge 

•6 
p.m. -Meeting, of the Graduate Student Un­ion Representatives, Wilson Commons 

•7 
p.m. -Monday Night FUm Series, "The Long Goodbye," Annenberg Auditorium, S2 

•7 
p.m. -Lecture, "Character of Ancient Petrolifero us Lake Basins ofthe VC'orld," Thomas D. Fouch, 101 Eanh Science Building 

•9:40 
p.m. "Macbeth,", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Shakespeare Club and the English Department, sI 

•7 
p.m. -Meeting, of American-Lebanese Club, Lafortune International lounge 

•7:30 
p.m. -Writers and Other Troubadours, Fictional Readings, Elaine Golieb, Cornucopia Res­taurant, $1.50 

•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Kolberg's Theory Ap­praised: A Reply to Critics,' Prof. Clark Power, Library Lounge 

•7:30 
p.m. -Meeting of the Faculty Senate, 202 CCE 

•8 
p.m. -Concert, Chicago, ACC SI 1.50, and SI0.50 

•9 
p.m. -Monday Night Film Series, "The Birds," Annenberg Auditorium, S2 



T.V. Tonight 



Jeb Cashin 

I Q;E too FOUHD 
1>ERN ~ERs 

Sven Johnson 

6p.m. 
6:30p.m. 
7p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
Sp.m. 
8:30p.m. 9p.m. 

9:30p.m. llp.m. 11:30p.m. !2:30p.m. 
~PPLICATIONS ARE NOW AVAILABLE UNTIL WED. NOV.IO 
for the 



Movie lottery 
Pick up applications inS. U. Offices. Any questions please contact Gina Rohrer. 

u\btJre COame .Qtudettt CUtttott Cf'u~tctty ComWt~toh ~ Qoo/Qmg fp~ OOWte ttew bQood. 
Jfeed motwated, taQe"ted gtobb W\embettg a"d a!tt~~. 
vA gl!rot opjJO!ttutti.ty to get iJuJoO.Jed! 
.9ee COal!l!eQQ u\JoQall at .Q.CU. ol! raQQ 239 -760S om -S. 
~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~----------~ 
16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewirness News 28 New~watch 28 34 :\·2·1 Contact 16 NBC Nightly News 22 CBS News 28 ABC's Wood News Tonight 34 Over Easy 16 MASH 22 Laverne and Shirley 28 joker's Wild 34 TheM acNeii/Lehrer Repon 16 All in the Fzmily 22 Family Feud 28 TicTac Dough 34 SU aight Talk 16 Little House on the Prairie 22 Square Pegs 28 Th a!' sIncredible 
34 Grear Performances 
22 Private Benjamin 
16 Monday Nighl ai the Movies: 
22 MASH 
28 ABC Monday Nighl Football 
34 The MagkofDance 
22 Newhan 
16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
34 The Dick Cavett Show 
16 Tonighl Show 
22 Trapper john and Columbo 
34 Big Red Football 
16 Lare Night With David Letterman 
28 ABC News Nightline 
60 Arabic 
letter 61 Bark cloth 62 Bete­63 Get one's 
dander up 64 Iota 65 School 
group 
66 Soccer group monogram 
67 "-Fall in Love" 
DOWN 1 Oriental nurse 2Room style 3 Chemical 
compound 4 Styles 5 With plea­
sure 6 Fasteners 
of a kind 7 Overagain 8 Shelf near 
a slope 
9 Marsupials 10 Ohio city 11 Gutenberg 
legacy 12 Buddy 13 Fool 21 Delicious 22 Surpass 

25 Provide shelter for 26 Aquatic mammal 28 Short 
nails 29 Nettle 31 Office of 
authority 32 Multitude 33 Daughter of 
Nicholas II 34 Confederate 
soldier 36 Near grads 38 Fathers 39 One: Fr. 40 One of the 
planets 45 Talks 
aimlessly 46 Ruins 47 Paris 
tower 49 Roman 
roads 51 Sum 52 Maternal 
relative 53 Station 55 Mountain 
lake 56 Essayist's pen name 57 Sweet 
potatoes 58 Old: abbr. 59 The sun 
-··----------­

...------------------------~~ -~------.---~-­
Monday, November 8, 1982 -page 20

SQorts 
Pinkett stars 
Irish pull together, topple Pitt 
. . 

By CHRIS NEEDLES it was a breeze from there. The Irish offense, much maligned SportsEditor Pinkett's marvelous run was just 
in recent weeks, piled up 207 yards one of several key offensive plays and 21 points in the fourth quarter PITTSBURGH -From 1973 to that the Irish executed just as the to put the game away. A couple of 1976, a small, quick tailback named playbook says. Notre Dame was out­
weeks ago, those figures would have Tony Dorsett set this town on fire, gained by Pitt in almost every of­sufficed for the whole game. setting ten NCAA rushing records fensive category, but did manage NO went ahead 17-13 on a 54­and leading the University of Pitts­323 total yards and always seemed yard trick pass from Kiel to Joe 
burgh to a national championship in to come up with the key play when Howard. Kiel had pitched to Carter, his senior year. the situation called for it. thereby drawing in the cornerback On Saturday, his done came to With Pitt leading 6-3 in the Dukovich. When Carter tossed it town -same build, same amount of second quarter, the Panthers' Jeff back to Kicl, Dukovich was caught speed. and the same results. Heck, Casper fumbled a Blair Kiel punt, dead, for Howard was already 30 he even had the "-ett" at the end of and Rick Naylor recovered at the yards downficld. Howard took in 
his name. Pitt 45. On the next play, Kiel found Kiel's pass -"It wa.~ a little wobbly," But this time he was playing for fullback Larry Moriarty down the understated Kiel -and waltzed in. 
the other team. middle for a 30-yard gain. Tight end The play was the brainchild of Ot~ Freshman Allen Pinkett came off Tony Hunter, who was double­tensive Coordinator Tom Lichten­the bench and darted to I 12 yards in covered all day and caught just two berg, and the play actually had been just I 0 carries, including a Dorsett­passes, cut across the middle on the called two previous times in the like 76-yard touchdown run with play, drawing defenders to him and game, but were changed by Kiel be­
8:09 remaining, to lead Notre Dame opening up the middle for Moriarty. cause of Pitt's defensive alignment. 
to a 31-16 upset of top-ranked, un­Two plays later, Moriarty weaved "I had to check it off twice at the defeated Pitt before an overflow his way through his blockers to a line of scrimmage," said Kicl, crowd of60,162 at Pitt Stadium. four-yard touchdown to give the "because they were in a blitz situa­
Pinkett. who replaced an inef­Irish a I0-6 halftime advantage. tion. It was set up perfectly because 

fective Phil Carter in the second But Pitt was dominating the stat of the coverage they were in. I saw quarter, also tallied the clinching sheet, and in the third quarter quar­him (Howard) just after the pitch 

score on a seven-yard run with "l:06 terback Dan Marino put together an running down the sideline." ..::¥ 
left. His performance no doubt incredible 18-play, 98-yard drive "We call it the 'Pa.~s 29 Special,"' -aJF stirred a lot of memories in Panther that culminated in a one-yard TD 
said Howard of his only catch of the fans, while at the same time creating sweep by Bryan Thomas, putting the day. "I was smiling because I knew 
several bad ones. Panthers ahead 13-10 while we were going to get it. The corner­


"We ran that play the last two chewing up 8:42 of the clock. back and safety came up anticipating weeks with no success," Pinkett said "After that drive we started to 
the run and ran with the sweep. 

Notre Dame linebacker Mike Larkin u•atches as Pitt split end
of the spectacular run. "I was wonder," said defensive end Kevin There was nothing they could do." 
julius Dawkins loses the handle on the ball after catching a Dan
looking for the cutback, just con­Griffith, who along with Stacey Marino, who was a deceiving 26­
Marino pass at the ND 24 in thefourth quarter. The crucialfumble,
centrating on getting the first down. Toran was in on 14 tackles, just be­of-42 for 314 yards on mostly short 
which was recovered by ND'sjohnMosley, was the turningpoint in
I had the option ofcutting across the hind Mark Zavagnin's team-leading dump passes, then led the Panthers 
the game as the Irish scored two plays later and went on to upset
grain or going outside. 16. "But our offense really came 
the No. I Panthers, 3I-I6. (Photo by Rachel Blount)
"I knew Pitt was quick and ag­through." See UPSET page 18 gressive, so I hesitated a little bit and then made the cut. There were two guys waiting for Another No.1 falls
me to go outside. And then I saw the two col­lapse ...." 
Pinkett paused for a moment to in­

Notre Dame 'n1ystique' re_surfaces in upset 
spect the sea of reporters that were packed around him. You'd have By KELLY SULLIVAN look intense or worried. I think they faust used the sheet in his pre-game plays to Notre Dame's 48 -amass­thought he knew who won the Il­Sports Writer took us a little lightly." pep talk to inspire the team. ing I I 5 more yards in the process. linois gubernatorial election. The Panthers won't make that "It gave us a lot to think about," "We were getting tired, but it's 
I 
It doesn't take much to analyze PITTSBURGH -The top-rated, mistake twice. "You know, you hear offered freshman tailback Allen easy to keep going in a game like that play -Pinkett simply outran previously unbeaten Pitt Panthers about the luck of the Irish and all Pinkett. "You realize, this is what this," said defensive end Kevin Grif­everybody, while making the Pan­made a lot of mistakes Saturday -that tradition," said Pitt coach Foge Notre Dame is all about." fith. "And their offensive line, they ther defense look like the opposing penalties, mishandled snaps, Fazio. "Then you see the fumbles at "We were beating ourselves the were the best pa.~s blockers I'-ve 
team on the old New York Life in· fumbles -but perhaps Pitt's biggest the crucial times and the turnovers, past few weeks-mistakes were just faced in my five years here." 
surance commercials. Pinkett went mistake was ignoring the Notre and you wonder." killing us. I hope this hushes the "We've been sitting on leads the t through the gaping hole, cut at just Dame mystique. "Whether it's mystique and all critics. This win gives us back our past few weeks," said quarterbackI the right time, watched as Pitt's Yogi As a Pittsburgh sportscaster la­that lost it for us, I don't know. Ifit is, respectability and puts us back in Blair Kiel, "but we had to open up
I 
Jones and Rick Dukovich collided mented on his radio talk show after I don't know if I would want to play the national picture. We knew we today -we wanted to give the and took each other out of the play, the game, "When you play Notre them again." were one of the top teams in the defense a breather." and then galloped home-free to the Dame, you'd better be ready to play Notre Dame hadn't knocked offan country -no one else did, but we The Irish breathed a little easier end zone. their spirit, their desire and their unbeaten and No. I football team knew." after that 54-yard score gave them a 
The TO, coming just two plays af­tradition, not just their team." since the 1978 Cotton Bowl. That An overworked Irish defense, on 17-13 lead, but not until Pinkett's ter cornerback John Mosley But Pitt wasn't ready, according to upset, along with the two bowl wins the field a full quarter more than its 76-yard scoring burst did victory recovered a killer fumble by Pitt's some of the Irish. "We watched over Alabama, were among seven teammates on offense, didn't know seem a reality. Julius Dawkins at the ND 24, put the . them working out before the game," victories listed on a sheet of paper how far it could bend without break­
See MYSTIQUE page 18

Irish ahead comfortably 24-16, and said one player, "and they just didn't which read "Big Games" at the top. ing, however. The Panthers ran 88 
leers vs. WMU 



McNatnarashines, NDgains split 
By ED KONRADY the penalty box guard as there were four-game Irish losing streak that 
Sports Writer only three penalties, two for WMU threatened to drop the Irish directly and one for the Irish. Saturday's to the graveyard of the CCHA. and After suffering their fourth game wa.~ quite a different story, propping up a injury-riddled 
straight loss Friday, 2-0, the Notre however. defense that was a cause of concern Dame hcKkey team stormed back The second game became very for Coach Lefty Smith. Saturday to defeat Western Michi­physical, with /6 penalties being "For a while there. it looked like 
gan University, 5-3, to gain a split of whistled, eight for each team, we wouldn't have any defensemen their home-and-home series. including a penalty shot for the left for Saturday. (Mark) Benning 
The first game, played at the ACC, Bronco's Jeff Crossman because of had a slight fracture of the hand, and saw the Irish fall bl'hind 2-0 in the Rob Ricci's trip at 0:50 ofthe second when he got hit in the beginning of second period on goals by Bronco period. Crossman beat McNamara the game and he was unable to play, freshmen David Cromer and Ron but shot wide of the net, and the we lost (Bob) Thebeau with a thigh Pesetti. That was all Western would score stayed at 2-l for the Broncos. injury, (Joe) Bowie hurt his shoul­need to take the game. In the second and third periods der, and (Steve) Ely injured his ribs. 
Irish senior Bob McNamara and the Irish offense got on track, with We were down to three defe Bronco sophomore Glenn Healy four goals in Jess than twenty semen. both had 2S saves Friday, turning minutes, two by junior Mike "Fortunately, Joe Bowie was able away point-blank breakaway shots Metzler, one by Adam Parsons and to 'suck it up' and play -it was a 
and doing their best to hold up shaky the fourth by co-captain Mark sprain, not a joint injury -and defenses. Healy got his first shutout Doman. Thebeau was able to play. We didn't 

of the year, while McNamara was Once again McNamara put on a know until warmup on Saturday
Notre Dame goaltender Bob McNamara was impressive in this 

victimized only by a second stellar performance stopping 25 night who we were going to have
weekend's series against Western Michigan, but the Irish could on­

rebound shot and a very nice feed shots to Healy's 22. available. It turned out that John
ly manage a split of the home-and-home set, winning 5-3 in 

from Bob Bailey to Pesetti. McNamara's efforts Saturday Keating was able to play for us.
Kalamazoo Saturda;v after losing at the ACC Friday, 2-0. See Ed 

Friday's game was rather quiet for came at the right time, stopping a
Konrady's story at right. (Photo by Ed Can'o/1) See ICERS page 17 




