Worst rooms -Page 6
' ' ' 

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY I 7, ll)H2
VOl.. XVI, NO. l)H an mdependent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 

Editor's note: Kathleen .l1urphy is running unopposed in the race for Saint .l1m)''s Student Bod)• Presi­dent. Voting will take place tomor­row from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. in .l1adeleva Hall and Saga Dining Hall. Observer reporter .Wary• O'Keefe spoke with .l1urphy abo~t herplansfor the coming year. 

Kathy Murphy 
Q: As a candidate for Student Body President what are your primary• goals j(Jr representing the needs ofthe students? 
A: We would like: to improve and develop several things that have: been started by the previous ad­ministrations, particularly reorganizing the: parietal system, improving social space:, increasing student awareness of social justice: concerns, and improving com­munications between students, faculty and administration. 
We: would like: to increase: student awareness and participation in services outside: the community such as Urban Plunge and Logan Center. We: would also like to im­prove communications especially in the: academic areas. We: want to kc:c:p up and improve: communications 

ByNestle Co. 



Controversy s~rrounds formula 
Saint Mary's 
SBP candidate outlines goals 


Business expert sees changing work role 
By VIC SCIULLI 
Neu•sStaff 
l:'ditor's Note: The following is the first ofa two-part st•rh•s examining the use of infant formula in Third \l'orld nations. A debate concerning this issue u•i/1 take place tomorrou• at 7:30 in the Library Auditorium. 
In tht· latt· I <)60's, pediatricians from the Western 
World began publicizing "evidence" regarding the 
JH:gativt· effects of infant formula usc in the Third 
World. Tht· controvt•rsy has grown into a complc:x 
situation since: then. 
On one side: of 
tht· controversy WEDNESDAV.!!l!!!~~~!ij[~j· 
arc: the: manufac­

~~;~~;~~~~.:::it~n:~i f~~~:~:~fi~;::;:~~:::;:::F 0 CUS· 
Nestle: Company, the largest l(>Od processing company in the: world and the largest manufacturer of infant formula in the: Third World, is tht· most targett:d of these: companies. Nestle has been accused of using aggressive markl'ling pnll'nlurc:s to market their infant formula Lactogen. This formula is allc:gc:tlly responsible ti1r the death of millions of babies in Third World Countries. 
1:'1/I'ACT, the Infant Formula Action Coalition, is a nationwide organization of consumers, religious group~ and other interest groups and has organized the: boynllt ofall Nestle: products. Through various means, 1:'1/I'ACT has attc:mptt·d to induce corporations, most notably :'1/estle, to examine the: ethical and moral im­plkations of their marketing practict:s in the Third World. 
INFACT has also ust·d a boycott against Nestle as a means of bringing about change:. The boycott, initiated in 1977, ha~ grown to such proportions that it is the largt·st non-union boycott in United States history. Among the organizations which endorse the boycott arc: the Unitt·d Auto Workers, OXFA:\1 America, the: :'1/a­tiona! Council ofChurches, the: American Federation of Teachers, and the American Public Health Association. 
Nc:stlc:'s involvement in infant formulas began in 1867 when Swiss Chemist Henri Nestle: dc:vdopt·d and marketed a milk based product which he used to 

nourish a premature: infant who would have dit:d had he not been given the formula. Although Nestle: docs not produce or market infant formula in the U.S., their infant formula products arc: used in many other countries and by organizations like: the: International Red Cross. 
The World Health Organization and the European Economic Community, however, have raised a nlllnbcr of objections to the: usc of infant formulas in Third World countries. Inadequate: lc:vds ofhygiene: make: the safe preparation and storage: ofinfant limnula nearly im­possible:. The: bottle itsc:lf becomes an incubator for the: microorganisms in the water. The: combination of con­taminated water and l(lCinula makes bottle-fed infants more prone: to infection. 
:'vlany mothers can not read the instructions printed on the l(Jrmula's package: and, as a result, the: fomula is often improperly made: and can result in death due to dehydration. 

According to a study of bottle-fed babies in Peru published in the jowwl of Clinical .Vutrition, April I979, malnutrition was -!. 5 times higher than average: among these infants. The I979 bulletin of the: World Health Organization reported that the: mortality rate: of bottlc:-fcd infants in Chile was three times higher than the: average. UNICEF and the: U.S. House: of Representatives in House: Joint Resolution 287 es­timated that the: usc: ofinfant formula accounts for up to one-million deaths per year. :\tany fc:c:l that the: tlgurc is higher. 
Another problc:m with infant formulas is that they lack the immunities which arc contained in brc:astmilk and which arc: crucial in protecting the infant against disease in the early part of their life. 
Brc:astft:c:ding also plays an important role: in es­tablishing a bond between mother and child. Brcastfc:c:ding also hc:lps suppress ovulation, hc:lping to 
see FOCUS page 4 
with faculty and administration to al­leviate the distance students oftt·n fed In order to do so we: will oft'c:r more: student, faculty and ad­ministration activities to unit)' the community. 
Curriculum changes arc currently being made. For example, there arc plans to emphasize: the study of women in particular areas. \\:'c: would like: to lc:t students know that faculty is planning to ·get their input. Communications has to do with stu­dents attitudes and getting students to be part of what is going on. 

Q: Parietals and the cotwersion of the old library• illto a student center are of main concern to tbe present administration. 1/ou• do you intend to jiJrtber dewlop tbese issues? 
A: We realize these issues arc of primary importance to the students. I have: been on the parietal ad hoc committee and Elaine: is a mc:mbt-r of the: College Center Committee. Our survey indicates that students arc basically happy with the present 
see Q&A page 3 
By LAUREL-ANN DOOLEY 
.Veu•sStllff 
Actual work c:xpcric:ncc: is the: key to the "up from the: tloor" trend in business management, asserted noted business authority Harold Livesay in a lecture last night at the: CCE. Part of the Professions in American History lecture series, the: presentation dealt with the chang­ing role of business management in the United States. 
Livesay, a renowned author and History Department chairman at Vir­ginia Polytechnic and State: Univer­sity, approved of this idea of experienced business managers. American business was at its pt·ak, he declared, when a manager worked his way up from the: bottom thereby obtaining a fuller knowlc:dgc: of the: professional world. 
According to Livesay, Harvard and Stanford have begun to seck c:x­pc:ric:ncc:d applicants for their schools of business, evidence: that such a program of actual work before an :\1BA is beginning to take hold. 
Livesay also touched upon the present economic situation of the: country, terming it "a drcadli.JI state of aftairs." He made st·vnal suggt·~· lions rt·garding this condition including abolition of executive bonust.·s, espousal of t;lr-sightt·d economic views and improvement of labor relations. 

lie claimed that no ust· is madt· of creativity in tht· labor for<..·c and that the idea of workers as individuals with dignity must be rcsurrectt·d. "I have one word t(Jr tht· lahor rda­tions in the llnitc:d Statt·s: stupid." Ht· blamed the: currt·nt plight of big business largely on wasted research funds and serious productivity problc:ms saying, "American bu~i· ness is docile to the extreme: in terms of productivity." 
lie: cites that tht· bdic:f that tht· success of Japant.•st.· business is responsible: for the dt·dint· of the American economy is an excuse fi1r failing to lc:arn from previous nation· al failures. "We only write about our successes; we ignore: our failures." ht· maintained. "Business is an old art with roots as deeply planted here: as in Japan." 
Livesay docs not, howt·vc:r. foresee the future: ol Amnican busi· ness as hopdcss. "We havt· no reason in the long run to be pes­simistic." 

Saint Mary's holds elections for officers tomorrow 
By FRANCES NOLAN 
.Veu·s Staff 
Students at Saint :\tary's will 
have: only one choice: for Student 
body oftkc:s when they go to the: 
ballot box tomorrow. 
Running unopposed for Stu­
dent Body positions arc Kathlc:c:n 
:\turphy t(Jr Student Body Presi­
dent, Elaine: Hoctc:r tiJr Vicc:­
Prc:sidc:nt of Student Affairs and 
Beth Tighe: for Vice-President of 
Academic Affairs. 
Elc:ctions will be: hdd Thursday from 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 
p.m. at .\1addcva Hall and Saga Dining Hall. 
Two !ickc:ts arc running for Senior Class Office. One: ticket in­dudes Carolyn Birch for Presi­dent, Ellen Cassin for Vice-President, T•:rry Paulcr for Secretary, and Eileen Bell for Treasurer. The other ticket is composnl of Beth Bunker. Pres., Carol Dziminski, Vice-Pres., .\laura Kahn, Secretary. and Beth Forstd. Treasurer. 
Junior class candidates arc Denise Drake:, Pres., Beth Ais­thorpc, Vice-Pres., Kathlc:c:n Jen­nings, Secretary, and Molly :\tulligan, Trc:asurt·r, running against the writt·-in tk·kc:t of Chris Trotter, Pres., Rosie: Crowe:, Vice-Pres., Tracy Oakes, Secretary, and Sheila Drain, Treasurer. 

.\1arie Von Fddt, Pres., Cassie Boyle, Vice-Pres., Mary Easter­day, Secretary, and Kelly Mul­laney, Treasurer, make up one of the: three tickets running for Sophomore: Class Ofticcrs. The: other two tickets include: Cara Hageman, Marcia Bonich, Hc:Jen Lucatis, and Ann Potter on one and :\tichdk Lopez, Jayne Wat­ton, Susan O'Hara and Caroline Lockhart on the: other ticket. 

Wednesday, February 17, 1982 -page 2


News Brie/§ 
By The Observer an<.I The Associated Press 
Pope John Paul II declared yesterday that human rights must be respected in his Polish homeland and chastised major powers that worry more about inflation and arms than poverty in the Third World. In remarks in Polish to Ambassador VitoldJurasz and 200 other Poles gathered on the lawn of the Vatican embassy in lagos, Nigeria the pontiff repeatedly stressed that "the rights of in­dividuals and nations must be respected." The pope took a break­yesterday from the series ofopen-air masses and greetings to crowds that marked his first four days in Africa. "In Rome and outside Rome, I have intensely lived through the particularly difficult events which have affected my country, in particular the most recent ones," he said, referring to the Dec. 13 martial law crackdown in Poland. "I have said this to state authorities in Poland, as well as to the leaders ofother countries· that the rights ofnations must be respected. This is a heritage of many years. We did not learn this from the United Nations declarations after World War II. We learned this centuries ago." -AP 
Lech Walesa believes he will be freed from detention by March 7 to attend the christening ofhis daughter, and he will shave off a new full beard when finally released, Solidarity's chaplain said yesterday. "Given that date for the christening, he believes he will be free soon and for good," the Rev. Henrykjankowski said in an inter· view with The Associated Press following a three-hour meeting with Walesa_ Jankowski said Walesa's seventh child, a daughter born jan. 27, was named Maria Victoria at Walesa's wish and that she will be christened March 7 in Gdansk, Solidarity's birthplace and Walesa's hometown. "Walesa hopes to be free by that time," the priest said. "If he is not, the christening will take place without him." Church sources reported over the weekend that martial law authorities had turned down several proposals for Walesa to attend the christening. Jankowski made no reference to these proposals and did not say why Walesa believes he will be freed but said Walesa was still "enthusiastic" despite being held since Dec. 13 when martial law was imposed and Solidarity suspended. -AP 
Junta Presidentjose Napoleon Duarte has urged Sal­vadorans, beleaguered by a bloody civil war between leftists and rightists, to unite against "an external threat." In a televised address Monday night, Duarte also conceded leftist guerrillas "have in­creased their attacks considerably" in recent <.lays. He said they had more help from outside the country in their effort to overthrow his 
U.S. supported civilian-military junta. "Again I make a call on my countrymen without distinction to unite against the external threat," Duarte said. Duarte <.lid not specify the source of the threat. But his junta an<.I the Reagan administration have claimed repeatedly that Cuba is funneling arms and aid through Nicaragua to the guerril­las. Both Nicaragua and Cuba deny official knowledge of any such activity. A military source said Monday night that a five-day army sweep against guerrillas in southeastern El Salvador ended success­fully with at least 400 guerrillas killed and not a single government casualty. -AP 
The judge in Wayne B. Williams' murder trial in Atlanta ruled yesterday that defense lawyers will not be allowed to question the governor, former mayor and other officials about alleged politi­cal pressure to prosecute the defendant. Meanwhile, a free-lance photographer testitied that two prosecution witnesses may have mistaken him for Williams at the scene where a black teen-ager was found slain. The witness acknowledged he looks nothing like Wil­liams but said, "We're both black and we're both photgraphers." Superior Court judge Clarence Cooper quashed defense subpoenas for Gov. George Busbee, former Mayor Maynard jackson, former state Attorney General Arthur Bolton, Georgia Bureau of Investiga­tion Director Phil Peters and Busbee's chief legal aide, Charles Tid­well. The quashing had been sought by attorneys for those named. ­
AP 

. Fifty-footwavessank a Soviet freighter in the icy North AtI t antic yesterday, leaving 3 3 dead or missing and raising the num­ber of feared fatalities to 117 in the storm-lashed area in two days. The world's biggest oil rig, the Ocean Ranger, capsized .\1onday 240 miles east of Newfoundland, leaving one man drowned and 83 mis­sing and feared dead. Yesterday, the freighter Mekhanik Tarasov went down 65 miles further east. The Halifax Search and Rescue Center said I 5 bodies were recovered from the freighter, 18 people were missing and four or five were rescued from the 4,262-ton con­tainer t ship. It said two ships were hunting for survivors, that another ship and a plane were heading to the scene but that freezing condi­tions made it too dangerous for helicopters to tly and that more blinding snow was expected. The Mekhanik Tarasov, enroute to Europe from Trois-Rivieres, Quebec, had developed a 45-degree list overnight in 40 knot winds, heavy seas and freezing spray. Its cargo was not immediately known. -AP 
Vice-President George Bush, venturing into 
hostile union territory on behalf of the Reagan administration, 
declared yesterday that AFL-CIO leaders "are wrong to oppose us at 
every turn." Bush met privately for more than an hour with the 
federation's executive council amid tight security at the resort city 
of Bal Harbour, Florida. Emerging from he session, he told waiting 
reporters that he felt the nation's major labor leaders had not given 
President Reagan's economic policies a chance to work. Bush main­
tained that the leaders "don't give the president credit," for modera­
tion in inflation and declining interest rates. "We don't like it, and I 
told them so," the vice president said. On Monday, the top policy 
makers of the 15-million-member federation, had unveiled their 
own economic recovery plan entitled "An Alternative to 
Reaganomics." In it, Congress is urged to enact a speci:.l, progressive 
income surtax to fund any increases in fiscal 1983 defense spending. 
-AP . 

Misty and continued mild with rain gradually diminishing. High in the upper 30s to near 40. Cloudy with a chance ofshowers tonight and tomorrow. Low tonight in the low to mid 30s. High tomorrow in the mid 30s to near 40. Chance of rain 70 percent todayand 40 percent tonight. -AP 
AP 

Photo File 



An overturned lifeboat from the drill rig floats on high seas off the coast ofNewfoundland Mon­day.(AP Photo) 



Captain Mike Clarke, Search andRescue Canada, returns to St.john's after searching the area where the rig sank. Clarke reported seeing bodies and debris but no survivors.(AP Photo) 

Steve Romanski, East Coast Operations Manager for .'11.obile Oil of Canada, expressed "no hope" of finding survivors from the sunken rig Ocean Ran­ger, the world's biggest oil rig. ( AP Photo) 
Design Editor......... .. .. Ddnlr~ .\1urphy /Jf:sign .4ssistants ....................... Troy Illig P_aul .\1cGinn Layout Staff.......... .. .....Jo~ Flowas Typesetters........... .. Toni Rutherford Yell'S Assistant.... .. Dav~ Sarphie Cup)' Etlitur .................... :\laur~~n O'Toole Sports CuPJ' Etlitur ............. Dave Dziedzic VD DaJ' Etlitur ..................... .Jo~ .\1u>umed SIIC Day Editor............... Toni Ruth~rford At/ Design ............................ ...................John PhultJgrapht.:'T ..... . ......... Rudy Pc:rcz Guest Appearances... Knutc: and Suzanne B~a~h Punkz ··Jt'su lung u·ayfrum Ampbyu.xus to the meanest human ,·uss."  
The Observer IUSPS 596 920) IS published Monday through Fnday and on home football. Saturdays except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys Col­lege Subscnptlons may be purchased for $25 per year IS1 5 per semester) by wntmg The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 The Observer 1s a member of The Associated Press All reproduct1on nghts are reserved Second class postage pa1d at Nmre Dame lnd1ana 46556  

Achieve 
your goals with us 
Prudential is the largest multi-lines insurance com­pany in America; and one of the largest financial institutions in the world. But that doesn't mean that we're only looking for business majors. There are plenty of opportunities for those in the sciences and liberal arts. 
You see, our diversity and size enables us to offer careers in so many different fields that there's always something that will interest you. With us you can grow while doing what you want to do. And if you should later decide that you'd like to explore another career path. you can make your career change within our company arid get paid for the additional education or train­ing needed to make that transition. There's no loss of accumulated benefits, no worries between jobs. nothing to hold you back from making or changing your personal career goals. 
So, if you're looking for a career. but are uncertain as to which career path to take. why not check out Prudential and achieve your goals with us. 
We'll be on campus Tuesday, March 9th 
See the placement office to sign up for an interview, or send your resume to: 
(lfi PmdentJal 
..._... 

5800 Canoga Avenue. Woodland Hills, CA 91367 An Equal Opportunity and Affinnative Action Employer 

The Observer Wednesday, February 17, 19~2-page 3 
...Q&A 
paric.-tal system. The students feed· 
bal·k in the next parietal survey, 
however, will determine the course 
ofal'tion Wl' will take ift:lccted. 
:\'luch of what will go into the old library has already been determined such as the bookstore. a large social room and mcctin~o: rooms. Our goal will be to utilize this sol·ial space to the bcnctit of the students with dances, movies, and more. 
Q: Tbe fact /bat your ticket in· eludes two sophomores, one run· ning for Student Body President, suRRests a limited umount of ex-
SMCsign-up for Augusta room lottery 
Saint :\'lary's sophomores and juniors interested in living in Augusta next semester must altcnd two meetings before l·ntering the special lottery for rooms. The two meetings will be on Sun., feb. 21 at 4:00 p.m. and Sun., Feb. 28 at 6:00 p.m. Both meetings will be held in the Augusta lounge. Students interested in looking at rooms will be able to do so bcfort.· and after the meeting on Feb. 21 {3:00-4:00;5:00-5:30) 
Students securing rooms for friends abroad or on leave must at· tend the meetings for their friends. 
You must bring your J.D. to both met·tings. There will be no exceptions made for absences. 
The room lottery will be 7 p.m. on :\'tar. 3, and room picks will be 7 p.m. :\'tar. 4. Lottery and room picks will take plat·e in the Augusta lounge. 
for more information, call Robin ( 4-Jii7) or Usa ( 4 331i ). 
ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS 
In I_A)sAngeles,your great escape~oulqtake place



tn tntnutes. 
low Desert-45 mtn. Skung · 70 mtn 
Hogh Desert-98 min. Beller skoong-1 BO mon Be.chea-10 mon. Saolong-15 mon. Foreol-25 mon. Goll-17 mon. Mounta1n1-30 man. Runnong-Ichange your shoes) 
B1g mountaens-40 mtn. Ct~cket-23 mtn. Very beg mountaans-240 mtn. Otsneyland-45 mm. 
lmagme a climate jl,d locatton that lets you entOY tt all--the ar ;, educatton and the great outdoors. Every da All year round. 
Located tn Southerl1.Cahfornta. Northrop Air­
craft offers professional opportunittes. plu~ 
the llextbthty of ltfestyle that lets you make 
the most of hours off the 10b 
If you would like to destgn th1S century's most advanced aircraft in a locatton wtth easy access to beach. desert. and mountams. constder Northrop. 
Make the great escape that could last a life 
ttme 
Northrop offers company-paid medical and dental msurance: 1 2 patd vacation days annually: a week long Chnstmas holiday: tu1tton retmbursem'=!nt and a company-con­trtbuted savmgs/mvestment plan. 
We are mterested tn graduates 1BS and MS levels) tn the followtng ftelds: 
TECHNICAL ENGINEERING AERONAUTICAL 
perience as compured to recent Stu­dent Bod}• President candidates. Whut are your qualificutions tbat will aideyou in tbe responsibilities llS Student B(){~Y President? 
A: In the past two years I think I have done a decent job as Sopho· more Class President and Freshmen Council Chairmen. I am willing to do the job and I think that is a good indication that I am ready ti>r the responsibility. :\'ly expricncc on the Board of Governance allows me to sec the procedure involved and I'm familiar with the people and the sys· tcm. 

The general feedback so far has been very positive. The freshmen in particular have been vel'} sup· portive because as sophomores we have closer contact with them. Juniors admitted to us that they arc disappointed that no one in their class chose to run, but their feed­back has not been negative. 
Elaine, Beth, and myselflive: in dif­ferent dorms, havl-ditfcrent majors, and several ditfcrcnt interests so there is a lot ofpotential for bringing in a variety of ideas. We arl' going to be here for two more years so what we do now and next year is going to be important ti.>r ourselves as well as the students we arc representing. 
.Ihe Obset:Ver is currently accepting 

Hollywood Bowl-45 mon. Gr.fftth Park-45 mtn Untversttles-30 mtn. Beverly Holls-36 5 mon Surlmg , 0 mm Hollywood-40 mon 
Kno11's Berry Farm-45 mon. TtJuana-240 man. Rollerska1ong -Ichange your San Doego Zoo-1BO mon. shoes agatn) Sunshtne-7 seconds Unl'l&rsal Stud•os-50 m1n. Tennt5-10 m1n. 
ELECTRICALIELECTRON IC MECHANICAL 
Contact the Placement Office to schedule an appomtment w1th a Northrop representattve If you can not meet wtth us at thts time. please forward your resume to. 
College Relations Dept. 1221/80 TS/UND 2815 El Segundo Blvd. Hawthorne, CA 90250 
EQual Opportunity Employer M/F/H 
U.S. Ciltzenshop ReQuored 
Aircraft Division 




NORTHROP 
Makingadvancedtechnologywork 
Q: Do I'OU feel tbe lack of an opposing·ticket indicates students' disinterest in student government? 
A: After talking with several juniors I think a lot of it has to do with time constraints. They said they want their senior yl·ar for them­selves. Several juniors who arc class oftkcrs or on committess now have decided to stay with what they arc doing, bdicving this to be more con-· structivc tiJr themselves and the col­lege. 
\X't: arc dbappointt:d that we arc running unopposed but its impor­tant to let students know we arc en­thusiastic by going out and gt:tting their vote. Being SBP as a junior would allow me to channel all my efforts strictly towards the nct:ds of the college rather than personal plans for the future. 
I don't think thcrt: is student apathy. I think it has to do with stu­dent awareness. We want students to know what is going on but it is up to tht: individual. Bringing everyone together as a whole will be a chal­lcngt:. but we would like to make sure CVC!]'Onc has the opportunity to gt:t involved. For anyone who we missed whik campaining we will have an open forum on \X't:dnesday at 6:30p.m. in Holy Cross' Parlor. 

Popejobn Paul JJ spends a quiet moment after celebrating mass at an open-air service at /bat/an Vniversi~J' in Nigeria J1omlay. .l1ore than I00,000 attended tbe sen,ice.( AP Photo) 
"ARTIO'S IRISH PUB LUNCHEON SPECIALS" 
"Kitchen's open at 11 am" 


BBQ Beefor Pork Ribs 3.99 7oz. N.Y. Strip Steak or Rib Eye 3.99 4 piece BBQ cbicken 2.99 NY or Rib Eye Sandwicb Deluxe 2.99 lrisb Stew 1. 75 l/31b. Hamburger 1.90 
!/31b.Cbeeseburger 2.00 
/taiSaus 1.69 /tal Beef 1. 99 Roast Beef 1.99 Ham & Cbeese 1.50 Ham Safad .99 Corned Beef 2.29 Reuben 2.80 
Brothers of Holy Cross Vocation CounselingOn Campus 
How Jo I know if the Lord is calling me? 
... How does Brotherhood fulfill my neeJ for prayer, commtmity sharing anJ service? 
t-

How do I pray to discern the Lord's call? 
t 

\:Vhat are the Brothers' ministries? 
+ How do Brothers responJ to the neeJs of our Jay: committment to Jesus in thr poor, oppresseJ, social justice? 
.._ What is the formation program for the Brothers of Holy Cross? 
For infonnation or to talk about th~se thinKS, fi~el.fre~ to call on m~. 
Br. David Baltrinic, CSC Vocation Director 103 Columba Hall phone: 239-7830 

Grape 
I

d I1/ami ~:., Ironwood 
~~, ll 1'1
•+s 
·a~ 
W N ~ ing's 
Campus 
c.ejf 

Wednesday, February 1 7, 1982 -page 4
The Observer 


The images of women in the apocalypse was the focus ofAdela Yarbo Collin's speech at St. Mary's Carrol Hall last night. See story at right. (Photo by Rudy Perez). 
TO PLAY THE GAME: 
Answer each of thr. riddles that will appear here each week in February. \1'1rite your answer in the blanks below each riddle. The letters with numbers below them corres­pond to the numbered spaces in the master key. As you fill in the letters of the master key, you will be spelling the name and location of a secret city in Europe. Send us the solution, and you and a friend could win a trip there, free. 
TO ENTER SWEEPSTAKES: 
1. 
NO PURCHASE NECESSARY 

2. 
Grand Prize consists of two regular round-trip economy airfares to the secret city, 30-day Eurail passes, American Youth Hostel passes, two backpacks and $1000 in cash. 

3. 
Cut out master key for use as official entry blank or use 3" x 5" card. Print your answer along with your name and address. Mail to Secret City Sweepstakes, P.O. Box 6018, Norwalk, CT 06852. 

4. 
The first 1 ,000 correct respondents will receive a poster as an entry prize. 

5. 
All entries must be received by 3115/82. Enter as often as you wish, but each entry must be mailed separately. 

6. 
A random drawing of all correct entries will be held 3/22/82 by the Highland Group, an independent judging organization whose decision is final. 

7. 
Sweepstakes void where prohibited, taxed or otherWise restricted. 

8. 
All potential winners may be required to sign an affidavit of eli­gibility to verify compliance with the rules within 30 days of receipi of same. For a list of prize winners, send self-addressed, stampecl envelope to Secret City Sweepstakes c/o Highland Group, 16 Kmght St., Norwalk, CT 06851. . 



Apocalyptic images 
Scholar explores role ofwofllen 
By Cindy Coldiron 
StaffReporter 
Exploring how the images of 

women in the Apocalypse have af­
fected women today and how they 
might be interpreted, New Testa­
ment scholar Adda Yarbro Collins 
spoke last night at Saint Mary's Car­
roll Hall. 

Ms. Collins stated that one of the first things we notice in the Book of Revelation is "that women as actual historical beings are invisible with the exception of Jezebel." In reconstructing the actual Jezebel, it seems that she was a prophetess "who took a position on assimilia­tion to pagan culture differently from the t writer ofthe Apocalypse.'' 
By addressing her with the name of Jezebel, the author of Revelation chooses a particular way ofdisagree­ing with her. 
Given that Jezebel in the Apocalypse is the only woman men­tioned and she is presented with the image of harlotry, that signifies that "a woman in the postion of leader­ship is committing harlotry," stated Ms. Collins. 
Reflecting on the significance of 

the group of the 144.000 people 
mentioned in Revelation who have 
THe QUeST Of THe SeCReT CITY 

·· sweePSIAKes 
heres a city in Eur?Pe-you could travel there free. So unravel these nddles and . k{Y\]
' 

uncover Its 

'"'J • 
WHAT AM I? 
My arsenal is patience, 
My sword is chalk; My discipline is conscience, My medium is talk; 
My reservoir is history, 
My greatest love is trnth; My highest art is alchemy, Where lead to gold is youth. 

5 13 4 
(Answer to week #2 Riddle: CLEF) 

reached salvation, Ms. Collins stated 
that "they are a specific number who 
sing a song that no one else has 
learned. Presumably they follow the 
lamb to his death and seem to be the 
martyrs." According ro Collins, the 
Book of Revelation seems to be 
suggesting that "to be Christian you 
must be celibate and a martyr." 
A variety of images are used for Jesus Christ, especially as the lamb because we expect this to be the image of sacrifice and vulnerability. "In other chapters we get the image ofthe lamb as a ram or of Jesus Christ as a warrior which makes the tradi­
continuedfrom page 1 
postpone future pregnancies. Infant 
formulas do not provide this ad­
vantage. 
The prohibitive cost of the for­
mula also results in problems as 
mothers often dilute the formula to 
make it last longer. This leads to ·mal­
nutrition. 
No one, however, not even the in­
fant formula manufacturers, 


GeNeRAL fOODS® INTeRNATIONAL COffees MAKe GOOD COMPANY.
© General Foods Corporation 1982 

OlNEAALFOOOI 

tiona! masculine image ofpower the image ofsalvation," Collins said. 
Ms. Collins added that the Apocalypse creates a world in which women are placed in two categories. "They arc either portrayed as Jezebels and harlqts or as pure brides. Women have not been portrayed as complete individuals but as stereotypes ofgood and bad." 
Stating that this image of women "was alienating and destructive for both women and men," Ms. Collins urged the audience to be critical of the text themselves and to sec if the way that the text is used is justified. 
• • . Focus 

disputes the fact that breastmilk is the best form of nourishment for an infant. When breastfeeding goes well. the mother's milk varies in quantity and content to match her child's changing needs. However, because of illness. maternal mal­nutrition, failure of lactation, or a mother's need to work, breastfeed· ing does not always go as planned. Nestle believes that infant formula can serve as an adequate supple­ment or substitute when this occurs. 
According to a report published by Dr.Jose Villar and Dr. J.M. Belizan in the Sept. 19, 1981 issue of The Lancet, a British MedicalJournal, the nutritional status in developing countries is reflected by socioeconomic factors. According to their report, poor mothers in un­derdeveloped countries were only able to provide 69 percent of the in· fants protein requirements at birth, falling to 51 percent at three months of age. An estimated 123 percent of calorie requirements were met at birth, falling to 55 percent at three month!>. 
Advocates of infant formula also point out that many Third World mothers are themselves under­nourished. These mothers, they claim, are incapable ofprovidingsuf­ficient nutrition for their children. The World Health Organization believes that only 1 to 3 percent of all these mothers are physically in· capable of breastfeeding. 
The problems attributed to the safety of infant formula because of water contamination, lack of refrigeration, and overdilution can be applied to all water based foods which make up the traditional infant diet. The problem lies not with the formula itself but with the problem of unsanitary conditions. Removing infant formulas from the market would only worsen the situation, in­fant formula advocates claim. 


THE COMMUNICATORM FROMATARI® 
Bring a world of 
information to 
your living room 
for less than the 
price ofagood 
electric typewriter. 
Use the Commumcator w1th The 
Bas1c Computer~ by ATARI. and gam 
access to Dow Jones fmancial data. 
news d~rect off the w~res. libraries of 
Information.. Over your ho;Ame~ 
phone, 24 hours a day. And 
you don·t need any computer 
experience 
© 1981 ATARI. INC 
0 ~~~ue~Jcat1ons AtA ftl' 
Company ""' 
Computers for people~ 
COMe IN FOR A COMPLETE DEMONSTRATION 
fhe Oomputar Shop authorlu4 d.ealerlaervlce center 702 S. Michl&an St., South Ben4 Open 11 am-7 pm, Mon.-Sat. peuonaliud service is our specialty 
---~-----­


Wednesday, February 17, 1982-page 5



Editorials 
Nestle Boycott Needed To Save Lives 
lead directly to malnutrition.
Consider the following story tant to rememba that the boycott is a held deciding whether or not the According to the the World Health 
George McAleer
recounted by a pediutrician on the means of producing change rather boycott will be continued at Notre 
Organization (WHO), children in the
staff of Kcysatta National Hospital in than an end in itself. Dame. A debate between INFACT 

Froncis o• Eramo
Third World who arc not breastfed
Nairobi and later printed in the Pres­The World Hunger Coalition of and Nestle will be held this Thursday 
during the first six months of life an:
byterian Survey: "A short while Notre Dame joins the American at 7:30pm. in the Memorial Library Opinion
five to ten times more likely to die
ago. . . the Nestle representative Public Health Association, the Auditorium to provide un oppor­
during their second six months of
cumc to visit u~ at the hospital to ask American Federation of Teachers tunity to compare and contrast the rather to aid -·in attempts to halt the 
life. UNICEF and the U.S. House of 
if we h t ud any opinion about the (AFL/C 10). the Candiun Council of views of both parties. This will prove loss of life from the consumption of
Representatives has stated that the
"Wuron Wunt" publication that had Churches, the :vlaryknoll order, the to be one of the events of the semester breastmilk substitutes in the Third 
use of infant formula accounts for up
been translated in Switzerland and Presbyterian Church in the U.S., the since the last time these two groups World. In the critical months to 
to one million deaths per year. The
retitkd, ·Nestle Kills Babies.' They YWCA, the UAW, the Catholic met formally was in October of 1978. come, a positive stance by Notre
harm to human life caused by im­
really wanted us to say that Nestle did Coalition for Re~ponsible Invest­Because of the importance of this Dame would be of great vuluc to the
properly used infant formula in Third
not kill babies. We discussed at ment. and many others, in endorsing situation with respect to world mal­individuals and organizations striv­World countries is severe and the
length with them, and were not able the Nestle boycott as a means of nutrition, we highly encourage ing to rectify the situation in the conditions prevailing in some areas
to say, of course, that Nestle either pn:ssuring Nestk to change its everyone to attend. Third World. The extension of the 
of these countries make safe and
docs kill or does not kill, statistically marketing practices. You will have The aim of the World Hunger boycott would be at most a minur in­speuking. But, to illustrute the point, proper usc of the formula almost im­th..: opportunity of doing the sume on Coulition in supporting the boycott is convenience to Notre Dame, but a I mentioned to these two gentlemen possibk. March 2, 19H2 when a vote will be not primarily to punish Nestle but major cthicul statement. thut there was a child over in our Nestle S.A. stands accused of 
emergency ward ... who was very playing a signitkant role in these ncar .death, because the mother was dcaths. Although it is certainly not bottle feeding with the Nestle their intent to kill babies, a cause and Product, and I asked wheth..:r they effect relationship between Nestle's would like to sec the baby. I took the unethical marketing practices and the two n.:pn:scntutivcs over into our 
ensuing infant deaths attributed to ar­emergency ward, and, us we walked 
tificial formula cannot be denied. into the door, the baby collapsed and 
Some of these saks tactics include died. I had to leave these two non­
the following: 1) mass media medical gentlemen for a moment ... advertising promoting the usc of und help with the resuscitation proce­
breastmilk substitutes, 2) the use of dure. It was unsuccessful. And, after 
"'milk nurses" (sales agents dressed 
the baby was pronounced dead, we in nurses uniforms), 3) distribution of free samples (which may interfere with the lal·tation process), 4) offer­ing health workers financial or material inducements to promote the formula. As of this date, according to
"The aim is not to Oxfam and other third-party sources, Nestle still engages in these unethical 
fJunish Nestle but to 
marketing tactics. In May, 1981 the aid in halting the loss WHO passed a Code exposing the dangers of artifidul feeding und
oflife" 
requiring infant formula manufuc­turers to curtuil their marketing practices by a 118-1 margin with three abstentions. Nestle has claimed that it supports the aim of the Code; however, this claim app..:ars to have
all watched the mother ... put a can little effect on what they actually do. 
of Nestle milk in her bag b.:fore she According to Tim Smith, Excutiveleft the ward. In a sense ... it was Director of the Interfaith Center onvivid demonstra t tion of what bottle Corporate Responsibility ( ICCR), feeding can do -because this mot­.. Both \l!r. Paterno! (N..:stle's Ex­ho:r was perfectly capable of breast ecutive Vice-President) and Mr.
feeding. The two men walked out of 
Purer (Chairman of the Board), made :vlany people have obsavcd that records of his phon.: culls. Eisen­
that room, very pale, shaken and 
l(Uiet ... " it explicitly clear in our talks that the Eisenhower presidency looks bet­hower says to the other person on th..: 
Garry Wills
Although infant formula can be Nestle docs not intend to adopt the ter as time goes on. The current inter­line things like ...Ann Whitman is used safely under proper environ­WHO/UNICEF Code ... " est in prcsidcntiul tapes is an example taking this conversation down.·· H.: This official Nestle position con­might as well have told people they
mental conditions, many problems of that. tradicts the Company's press release There are no tapes of conversa­were being tupcd; or the tuping Outrider
arise when it is used in under­
of June 16, 1981, which daims to tions ut the Eisenhower library. The equipment muy have been visibk. In
developed countries. Some of these 
support the ··stated aim" of the fact that he tap..:d people is l!S­any ..:v.:nt, mere gossip and intimate
difficulties include the following: I) 
Code. Said Smith, .. In the U.S .. dialogue were not l.:ft behind to summury, like the Eiscnhow..:r
tablished only by inference. A 40­
inade4uate levels of hygiene (eg. in­
librury·~.
Nestle' public relations statements pag..: summary of main points from invade privacy or fall into hunds that 
fant formula is mixed with polluted Th..:re is disagrc..:m..:nt, in th..: case
have created a purposeful ambiguity conversations was prepared in the could use the muteriul for blackmail. 
water and fed to infants ... bottles arc through mass letter stating that the Eis..:nhowcr White House; and there It was the fashion to mock Eis..:n­nf \1cssrs. Nixon and Kennedy, onfrel(uently not ~terilized); 2) many tht• matter of r..:kasing the tapes' con­
compuny supports the uim of the is m..:ntion that th..: recording became howcr' s orderly stuff system in the code. . . the aim is only a very inaudible at such and such a point. 1950 t s. But this is just on.: more ..:x­
mothers cunnot r..:ad the instructions tents -how much ~hould hefor sufe preparation of the formula. 
generic statement. In fact, N..:stk The tap..:s thcms.:lves ample of th..: benefits to b.: dcriwd releus..:d. if uny; in what form; on
were will not follow sp..:cific provisions of from procedures strictly followed.
Improperly prepared formula can what sch..:dulc; ufter sneening by
result in, umong other effet:ts, death prcsumubly destroyed. once their 
the code which would actually Eisenhower completed the job the which officials. The Johnson library
from diarrhea induced dehydration; informing purposl! was completed. 
may settle all thes..: mutters by
obligate them to make changes ..... tup..:s wcr..: supposed to p..:rform.
J) bottle fed infunts in the Third This makes Eisenhower tht:: only default. The tapes hud a 50 year scul 
World im:ur a gr..:ater risk of infec­Nestle claims to support the Code but president to complete the us.: of tap..:s without most of the abuses at all un­tion due u of immunities in r..:ality it is doing little to rectify the for historical purposes. which other less someone can establish that his placed on them, with 40 yeurs still to
to lack go. If nothing is done in thut period.

which are tran~mittcd in brcastmilk suffering of millions of children in pr..:sid..:nts daimed as their motive. tapings were cov.:n. the Third World. This rccurd ,·ontrusts shurply with ch..:mical d..:tcriorution may haw
and whi~:h an: crucial in protecting Thre..: years ago the students of So our knowledge of th..: Eisen­the hundr..:ds of hours of tapes, ..:ven obliterated their cont..:nts anyway.
th..: life of an infant in thl.! early stages It is odd to hear peopl..: defend
of lif..:; 4) infant formula is very ex­Notre Dame voted to boycott Nestle hower tapes is in~:ompletc. We do not of trivial meetings, run up by Nixon, 
S. A. University Food Services know how many hours th..: original Kennedy and -pr..:~umably -Kenn..:dy's tapes for their historicalpensive in relation to the family 
usefulness, then turn uround und say
honored the vote and refused to pur­tapes ,·ovcr..:d. The Eis..:nhower Johnson. I suy presumably of
incomes of most Third World na­t·hase any und all Nestle products and library asked the Senet Service whut Johnson b..:,· ausc hi~ c ight cartons of th..:y should not be put to historians'tions. This almost inevitably results 
those its such us..:d tapes seal..:d. Eis..:n­us.:. the Nixon tapes are, some of
in dilution of tht! infant formula in or­of subsidiaries as kind of l!l(Uipm..:nt wa~ in the arc Unlik..: the them, evidence of crime -and
Stouffer and Libby. In doing so White House ut that time. but could hower und K..:nnedy libaries. th..: LBJ
der to prolong the supply; this dilu­Notre Dame joined an int..:rnational find nn on.: who knew. Thus w..: do librury has no list of the num..:s of ..:vid..:nc..: for much els..:, too, that wetion lead~ to malnutrition. 
should know. But only Ei t ~enhower,
movement, sponsored by the Infant not kmm wh..:th..:r the tuping wus thos..: parti,·ipating in tuped conwrsa­
lronicully und tragically, the so far, has cstublished what kinds ot

Formula Action Coalition ov..:rtor cov..:n. tion~. Unlik..: the K..:nncdy libn•ry. it
infant formula~ that ar..: promoted a3 ( 1;-.JFACT), Ill ult..:r ~.:~tie·~ un.:thi­One bit of .:vidence mi!!ht indiL·at..: has no lllg of sUbJ<:Ct mutt..:rs cvid..:nce h.: thought worth preserv­being· 'better'· for tht! new horn often ing. Not bad.
c;JI murkc·ting praL·til'l'~. It i~ impl;r-that it ~~a~ oven. In ,,:.nographic CllVCrl·d. And. naturally. it ha, no 


Founded November 3, 1966 The Observer is •an independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report­ed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encounged. 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editorial Board 
l:'tlitor-in-Cbief......... ....................John McGrath 
Executive Neu•s Editor.... . ..... Kdli Flint Sports Editor.............................. Skip D~sjardin
-· -­Neu•s Editor ..... ....................... David Ril.·kabaugh Photo Editor........................................John Macor S.WC Executit•e Editor........... .\1ary Agnes Care) Editorials Editor.................:::...Anthonv Walton ~~we Neu•s Editor...................... Cathy Domanico Features Editor .........................Gregory Swi~rcz 
Department Managers 
Business .Wanager ......................... Rich Coppola Production Manager...................Michael Monk Controller ............................................ .joe Mulflur Circulation Manager .............Tom Maclennan Advertising Manager ....................... Chris Owen Systems Manager ........................... Bruce Oakley 
-----------~------­
1 ...:.~ ...~. :.:.:.~~:.~......~~-............................................... 
SHO~C~~~~S~E~~~~W~ed~ne~~a~y,F~e~~m~ry1~7,~198~2~p~~~e6 

Sin1on's Quest for Worst Roon1s 
W
anted . Taking applications for prospective roommates. Call... 
"I'm considering changing dorms." Simon walked over to the Features Editor's desk where I was working and sat down. 
Tari Brown 
"How come, Simon?" 

"I think next year that I might want to have a little privacy of my own." 
"So why tell me?" 

"You don't look very busy. Besides, I need someone to help me investigate possible rooms." 
"Oh. Okay. Where do we start?" "I made a list ofrooms that I found in the classifieds." 
"Great. Do you have a preference for size,location, male or female dorm?" 
"I don't have. to worry about parietals." "Right. Why don't we just go take a look?" 
"Let's go." 

Simon and I left the office and trekked through the slush to 041 Lyons Annex. There we were greeted by two ofthe quad's in­habitants, Maura Murphy and Mary Kay McDonald. Gladly obliging our request for a tour, Maura led us into the bedrooms. Simon spotted a strange appendage hanging from the 
ceiling radiator. 
We taped a plastic cup to the radiator because the radiator drips in my roommate's face when we are asleep, Maura explained. 
Very interesting, we said. 
What about noise, Simon asked. 
Before they got carpet they could 

hear everything that anyone above them said, even whispers. The radiators bang a little. Like railroad cars, .\1ary Kay interjected. When the water pipes are just starting up, they run like a motor for forty-five minutes at a time. Sometimes it sounds like the wall or the radiator will explode, but outside of that, it's pretty quiet. 
Simon didn't look too pleased. Maura noticed, and quickly pointed out the room's many advantages. 
\X'e have our own shower at the 

end of the hall. No huge lines in the 
morning. You have to keep the 
outside fan on so that your shampoo 
doesn't freeze and steam up the 
bathroom for about fifteen minutes 
before you use it but other than that, 
you couldn't ask for more. 
Kindly thanking Maura and Mary Kay, we left. 
"Well?" I asked. 
"Where next?" 
"Since we're in the general vicinity, let's try 315 Carroll." 
Carroll Hall impressed Simon; solid, tastefully built, high ceiling rooms, a lot ofcharacter. After making the climb up the stairs, we meandered our way to room 315 and upon knocking, entered into an­other world. 
The room's only living organisms, jack Burbridge and Dave Unter· reiner, invited us to come in and look around. The eye could not capture all that there was to see. They suggested that we sit down but both Simon and I were afraid of waking some hidden creature from its sleep. Off to one side, cascading beneath the couch (which was propped up on a table) was a pile of yellowing newspapers dating from... 
Simon didn't want to ask. 
A modern artist might have called a painting of this room, Random Blotches ofColor ofthe Moment. 
Not being a painter, I would have 
called it, Random Piles ofClothes, Paper, Debris, etc. ofthe Moment, Hour, Day, Week, etc. 
At the sight ofthis mess, I began to fear for Simon. I had become ac­customed to his heartfelt desire for peace and order. This was definitely not within Simon's criteria so I politely hinted to the roommates that we had other rooms to see. They casually said goodbye and we took our exit. 
''I'm sorry, Simon. Maybe we 
should have checked these places 
out before we started visiting them. 
Ifl \vere you, I would rather live in 
that empty McDonald's Quarter 
Pounder container than live there." 
"That's okay. Let's try again." "Are you sure? They say, 'three strikes and you're out."' "Let's try 228 Cavanaugh. It's closer to home." 
Off we went to the North Quad. was hoping that this excursion would be less disconcertng to Simon if not a little profitable. We were plt;_asantly surprised to find three roommates, jim Wasilak, Phil Baty and Sven johnson, who maintained an orderly and surprisingly at· tractive room. Unfortunately, my hopes faded with every minute spent there. Outside the room we could hear the bellowing echoes of voices in the stairwell, the metal doors ofthe waste and laundry chutes clanking shut and a strange thumping noise. Upon questioning, they told us that the residents of the section generally congregate outside their wall and rhythmically tap their fingers on the plaster. 
Simon had started to do a bit of closer inspection and came upon some lumps on the wall by the baseboards. One of the roommates explained that it had been worse. Originally, there had been two inches offungus growing from the wall. They had chipped it away and repainted it but it was growing back. It grew there because the bathroom was right next door. That fact was obvious by the visible presence of the fan and clouded glass directly outside their window. 

There's a bit ofnoise but that's 
about all. Except in the warm 
weather. When it gets warm, all the 
windows get opened up and they, 
unfortunately, have to initiate met· 
hods to prevent their room from 
smelling like the bathroom. 
I was a little queasy about this 
room but even more so when Simon 
ran to me and exclaimed that he had 
found a fuzzy creature living under 
the beds. I tried to settle him down 
by telling him that they were just 
dust bunnies but Simon was not con­
vinced. 
We thanked the three roommates 
and turned to leave. 
"Where to, Simon?" 
..:vtaybe I can persuade a very kind 
alumnus to build a a facility for me to 
live in." 
"I don't know. Simon." 
"I think someone had better have 
a talk with someone, though. Those 
were the worst rooms on campus!" ."Yeh, I think you're right." 
Seconb Scene 
tOpRObUC€ 
Ouel or anqels 
D 
uel ofAngels. a tragic comedy written by the French dramatist jean Giraudoux, is heing performed 
Doug Murphy 
as part of the series ofSecond Scene Productions on February 19 and 20. The play is being presented in celebration of the famous French dramatist's lOOth birthday. 
Mary O'Neil, who plays Lucille in the drama, described it as " very challenging; a definite 'actor's play'. It deals with people who are ex· traordinary, very French, and given to long, eloquent speeches. The cast 
is therefore challenged to present the play without letting it lapse into melodrama." 
She added that "Giradoux was a very romantic writer with a certain ·magical' quality offantasy in his plays. We are trying to evoke this sense here." 
The plot revolves around a 
dramatic conflict developed be­tween the characters Lucille and Paola. Lucille is the innocent; a girl so pure in mind and body that she can 'see evil' in other people in the form oflittle, slimy creatures on their bodies. Paola is her very op· posite; a figure oflust and promis· cuity. She tries, in the course of the drama, to influence Lucille and turn her from her innocent ways. The duel between them flares up when Paola creates a malicious lie, hoping to corrupt Lucille with guile and trickery. 
Professor Reginald Bain, who directs the play, summed up its central idea as being the "conflict between a pure, saintly, ideal sort of person, trying to keep to herself and still remain a member ofsociety, and the whole rest ofsociety who won't leave her alone. Society sees her as a threat and despises her because of her very 'idealness'. In other words, the conflict is between purity and licentious." /Talking about Second Scene Productions. he believes them to he a "crucial outgrowth of the regular main stage productions. Second Scene gives everyone involved, from cast to director, a chance to work at something different and exciting; to experience and benefit from dif· ferent styles ofdrama." 
Because of technical limitations and a desire to experiment, the per· formance will take place in an open stage arrangement in the lobby of O'Laughlin Auditorium. Seating will be limited because of this unique feature. Reserved tickets may be ob· tained by calling 284-41 76. The price ofadmission will be S1.00. 
Duel ofAngels is a difficult play to perform and direct. Judging from the Second Scene productions al­ready presented this year and the cast's great enthusiasm for this play, it should be a major success. As Professor Bain concluded,"Come and experience these new theatrical approaches. We're attempting here to transform this play into a new and different experience for the audience. It's a great opportunitv to see a unique play." 
The Observer Features Section 
Wednesday, February 17, 1982-page 7 

Courses everyone must pursue 
H
ave you run out of majors to switl'h into? You've been in pre­med, l·nginccring, psyd10logy, philosophy, theology, architecture, 
Cheryl Ertvlt 
and business and don't know where 
to go next. Try the University's 
nl·wcst accredited major program: 
Social Survival. 
The following courses are re­quired ofS.S. majors and arc recom­mended University dectives for all other major programs. This is only a list offirst courses. 
PHONE ANSWERING 101(1 credit) 
Emphasis is placed on distinguish­ing between the mouthpiece and the receiver. Also, answering in a pka~ant tone of voice is practiced. <iradc is ba~cd on pnformancc when called uncxpl·ctcdly in the middll' ofthe night by the professor. 
HANGING UP 102 (I credit) 
The propl·r way to hang up the phone is taught ix. which way the n>rd should go. Not hanging up when infuriated is also emphasized. Gradl· based on how long student will tolerate long dissertations in the middle ofthe night and how softly the phone is slammed down when the tolerance runs out. 
COLOR COORDINATION 103 (I credit) 
Practices dressing in non­repulsive combinations ofcolors or patterns. 
DRESSING I04 (I credit)emphasizcs the differences between right and left and inside­out and backwards. Class consists of putting on and taking offclothes un­til the whole outfit is being worn correctly. 
CLUES 101 (3 credits) 
QACT 103 (3 credits) 
Designed to develop a more subtle approach when giving someone a hint or due in a situation. To he followed by AVOIDING FOOT-IN-MOUTH 104. 
AVOIDING FOOT-IN-MOUTH 104 (3 credits) 
Practice in thinking bd(>rc speak­ing so as to avoid getting into trouble. 
/J/Rf:'CT/O.VS Ill(I credit) 
Fundamentals of map reading arc taught as well as pranicc in recognizing familiar landmarks. Class will be held in a different loca­tion each week. Only I cut is per­mitted. Lab work will involve returning to own dorm from all points on campus at any time ofthe day or night. 
MAKING FRIENDS I2I(3 credits) 
Practice in holding comfortable conversations and being pleasant to other people. Emphasis on listening to others' problems and being able to relate your own problems. Also, the course stresses taking and giving advice and being honest. To be taken concurrently with KEEPING FRIENDS 131. 
KEEPING FRIENDS 13I(3 credits) 
Emphasis placed on understand­
ing your friends and being able to 
work out problems that could ruin a 
friendship. Rumors arc spcad be­
tween friends to sec ifthey can work 
things out. Stresses also is not being 
overbearing with m:w friends and 
overstaying welcome. 
.Trivia Quiz XVI 
';[aybc last week's quiz was not as 
~ V!difficult a~ I madl· it out to be. There Wl'fl" sl·vcral that turned out to be easy -depending upon who 
Tim rtvvly 
was doing the quiz. Some t(>und "colitas" and "teenage diplomat" simple, while others knew "winds of Novl·mhcr" (or said they did -sec answers below) and "Chairman :'vlao." It seemed a~ if no one knew "Fiw-Ycar Plans and New Deals" and "Gatlinburg in mid-July." Anyway, here arc the complete answers. the word or phrase tl>llowcd by title and artist of the Top 20 hit. 
I. egg to fry -"Om· Less Bell to Answn" by the Fifth Dinll·nsion 
2. 
Chairman :'vlao-"Revolution" by thl· Bcatles 

3. 
Gatlinburg in mid-July -"A Boy :"'amed Sue" by .Johnny Cash 


1. winds of :"'ovcmbcr -enough people said "Thl· Wrl·ck of the Ed­mund Fitzgerald" by Gordon l.ightti>ot to reassure llll'...thcn llis­tl'lll'li to it again and discovered that thi~ lint· b not thne! Sorry about that. ( llo\\TVl'f. "galt·s of :\lovcm· her" is mentioned three time~. ··~kit·~ of :'liovcmhl·r" onlT. and ""witdl of :\ovunl1l"r" once. ~o you 
can Sl'l' how I coutu get confused... ) 'i. colitas-"Hotel California" by thl· Eagks 
6. 
vestal virgins-"A Whiter Shade of Pale" by Procol J-larum 

7. 
Fivc-Yt·ar Plans and New Deals -"Who'll Stop the Rain" by Crecdcncc Clearwater Revival 


H. he's all a-drunk -"The House of the Rising Sun" by the Animals or Frijid Pink 
9. The New York Times' effect on man -"Stayin' Alive" by the Bee Gees 
I 0. teenage diplomat -"Blinded by the Light" by :'vlanfred :'vlann's Earth Band 
So much for that travesty ofsorts; it's time to move on. This week's trivia is somewhat more timely, dealing with chart hits ofthe past 12 months or so. 
I. IIow is Barry :'vlanilow's current single. "Somewhere Down the Road," different from every ballad of his released as a singk since late 
ll)7'i? 
2. 
Two different acts (so far) have had their dl·but album enter the Top I 0 during 19H2. :"'ame them. 

3. 
Which of the ti>ur singles from RE<) Spl·cdwagon's·numhcr one LP of 19H I. Hi lnfiddiiJ•. did not make the Top 20' (a) "Kn·p On Loving You"; (b) "Take It on the Run"; (c) "Don't l.ct llim Go": (d) "In Your 


Letter" 
-l. :'vlost of these albums were widely ignored. hut can you name these acts' 1981 releases? (a) Ringo Starr (b) :'vieat Loaf(c) Black Sab· bath (d) Steve :'viiller Band 
'i. The only album to hit number one during 1981 ll'itbout help from a Top 40 singk was ­
6. 
What was the title and artist of an alhum ofswing music hy an act not normally associated with that kind of music? It came out in the summer of 1981. 

7. 
What was the titk and artist of an album ofcountry music by an act not normally assodated with country music? It came out in the fall of 198 I. 

8. 
What was the name of the al­bum which contained the tirst com­mercial release of Bruce Springsteen's underground Christmas classic "Santa Claus Is Coming to Town"" It came out last fall also. 

9. 
Three of this group's last four singles have hit number one. the most recent a chart-topper in January 1982. :"'ame the group, the three that hit number one, and the one that did not. 


I 0. This albuml·urrctuly in the top ten ha~ spent over 50 Wl'l'ks there, hut only one week at the top. :-..:ame title and artist. 
No telltale surprises for 'Tale of the Tapes' 
I
t can now be revealed that since 1962 I have been secretly taping more than 'iO,OOO telephone calls and conversations that took place in my principal place of business, the Square Office, so called because of its shape. 
Three conversations have been indexed by librarians and ex­cerpts arc being made available to the public. Historians, ofcourse, will be able to read the full text of these conversations, which are considered to be an important new source of information about the great progress ofdeterioration in the United States. 
-
Excerpts ofsome of the most interesting tapes follow here: :'vic: Hello there (indistinguishable). I certainly hope so. Did you 
bring the (indistinguishable)? Other: Yes. I think Wingate ... Friday by the latest. :'vic: Have you hraifcd the winglc with Mingkone? Other: Nixon. Nixon and 
that tiJOI (indistinguishable). .\1c: Good. We'll sec that you have that. Other: Give my regards to 

(indistinguishable). 
.\1c: To who? 
Other: To whom. To (indistinguishable). :'vic: Yes, thanks. Naturaly I'm so dose to all this that it's difficult to anticipate how 
history will interpret these conversations in the light of what has happened since Yalta and Camp David. 
The basic questions one must ask oneselfarc these: will these con­versations have any prot(mnd effect on our long term relations with China, and second, did my wife realize, at the time, that! was having these conversations without her knowledge? 
The second excerpt is considered by some to be, if anything, cvl·n more revealing: 
\1e:Hcllo. 
Woman's voice: Ifyou get a chance. 
:'vic: Yes. 
woman: It will? NoJ if! can help it, it won't. 
:'vic: O.K. if I get a chance. 

Woman: ( unintcrrupting) You wouldn't dare say that if 
( indistinguishabk) was around. 
:'vic: What ever happened to ( indistingishabk) anyway? 
Third Voice: Howard Hunt certainly never did. 
woman : :"'ot if I can help it. 
:'vic: What else? Lamb chops, broccoli and what else" 
Woman: Yes, alright. Fine. Thank you. 
Third voice: And Howard Hunt, too. 
:'vic: Sec you soon. 
:'vi any intcrpctations have been put on this conversation held in the Square Oftkc. I believe the truth of the matter is that it wa~ the day I had a tlat tire in the driveway and took my wife's car without telling her and she was so mad she didn't go to the store for groceries. She called me to do the errands and while we were talking there was a crossed wire. 
For several years I've been reading excerpts from recordings made in the Oval Oftkl· and I can't make heads or tails out of them. The most important thing they rcvl·al is how badly writers write dialogue. It doesn't sound anything like the way people really talk to each other because it makes sense. 
Compktc tran~cripts of the tapes made in 1~1y Squarl· Ollkc arl· availabk hy \\Tiling to Tape~. Box (indistinguishable). 

1

Sports~l~l~r~.,~·e~.~t:."S=============W=ed=ne=sd=a=y,=Fe=br=
ru=ary=17=,1=9=82==pa=ge=8 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
The Fellowship ofChristian Athletes is sponsoring an evening with assistant track Coach Ed Kelly. The presentation will be held in Howard Hall Chapel at 8:30 tonight. FCA promotes Christian fellowship among athletes and coaches in hope that this will be shared with the larger community. All are invited. ­The Observer 
JeffLogan and}ohn Schmidt. captains on the Irish hockey team, will be the guests tonight on Speaking ofSports, tonight at midnight on WSND-AM 64. -The Observer 
Softball practice has begun for the Notre Dame women's team. This week's practices will be today and tomorrow at 
9:30 p.m. in the ACC Fieldhouse. New members are welcome. For more information, contact Karen at 7401.-The Observer 
Cheerleadertryoutsare coming up quickly. A man­datory meeting ofall those interested in becoming a member ofthe Notre Dame Cheerleading Squad will be held in the LaFortune Little Theater tonight at 7 p.m. Requirements, practice schedules, and other information will be discussed at this time. -The Observer 
see BRIEFS page 9 
• • .Grassey 
continuedfrom page 9 
all of my friends to make sure they show up. I hope we demolish them so I get a chance to play in front of the home-town crowd." 
And, no doubt, Phelps and the Irish basketball team are grateful for what Grassey has given them. 
LOST: A BLUE AUSTRIAN LODEN SMC CLASS OF 84 SPOOCH & SHARK, What 1s BIG and REO and soon to be COAT AT BRIDGETS ON THURSDAY take Who IS your FTD man? DEAD? Dillon Hockey 
NIGHT. REWARD!!!! CALL MARY AT THE TICKET TO RIDE 284-4762. vote yes" 
NOTICES FOR SALE 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY MRS NEEDLES! To the g1rl who likes to p1nch.
DRAKE.AISTHORPE,JENNINGS,and 
Love, Your Second Domer. Someone tust wants to say they're sorryLOST: I lost my morals on Sat. nile. If 
MULLIGAN

Aud1o Control 520B Equalizer and 3 way for their current dispositiOn. You re the
OVERSEAS JOBS--Summer year for
found. contact GARY the STUD. m 301 10" speakers wtth flwd cooled tweeters. last person I want to act th1s way
round. Europe. S. Amer.. Australia. As1a. JUNIOR CLASS OFFICERS
D•llon 
call Berme at 239· 7666 or 277-8869. Meg and Julie towards.. Bes•des who else Will go toAll f1elds. $500-$1200 monthly. Sightsee­Meg and Jul1e Sen1or Bar w1th me three years too early?
ing. Free info. Write IJC, BBox 52·1N4, 

WOLFE OF WALLSTREET (a.ka. Doctor Pete Mac (a 10 plus) tells how not to be Meg and Julie, 
Trntable: DUAL 1241S-only 3 yrs. otd,Corona Del Mar, CA 92625. 
of Psychedelia--he takes them senously) bonng! Stay tuned ... Library of M.K. F 
one owner. call J1m at 277-2349 Can we still be fnends!! 
····••·•················•••··········•······•··•·············•· 

NEEDS A JOB. ---Go West...---GJ (and I thought your name was Hector!)
DID YOU CALL THE AIRLINES FOR O.C. Bill--what a sweetie to send me red Thanks for the cook1es!

YOUR SPRING BREAK RESERVA­

LOST: From Student Government OH1ce. roses on my road tnp! Hope your inter­M1ck.
TIONS? PICK UP YOUR TICKET AT 1ST 

one decorator plant tn gold pot. Two cat­VIew went well. All my tests are over on Sorry about Gretchen-SOURCE TRAVEL. SAINT MARY'S-­tatls, one lavender stlk flower tn pot. Per­Wednesday. so let's get. RIPPED OUT Fnday n1ght Its your last name Luepke? Oh. I didn't 
TICKETS
5606 N0--7080 sonal value. If found. please call Margaret OF OUR MINDS (hacienda margeuntas. Gene know you were related! I guess you can at 7668. Thank You. maybe?) Love, D. see Mom and Dad Fnday from 3:00 to 

3.10. OK? Help tnternattonal relations Hosers from THE PUNKZ WALK THE SANDZ THIS Ah. Tokayll Yourb•gs•s the G.N W need four tiCkets for DePaul FRIDAY See Ya There call7936 HAPPY BIRTHDAY PATRICIA!
Looking lor a truly portable, yet powerful. 

Hope lt"s a warm and happy one. You LARRY
FOR RENT
personal computer? See THE OS. 

I Will g1ve ANYTHING for 1 or 2 GA·s to We re not talk1n FLORIDA Beaches I to you a
BORNE 1. 64K, dual 1OOK diSk dnves. deserve 11! Love, Cass was g01ng g1ve car for 
DEPAUL. Please call Alex at 6931. We re not talk1n CALIFORNIA Beaches Vatent•ne·s Day. but it was stolen out ofcomplete software package. $1795. 
We re not even talk1n GEORGIA D-2! Sorry! Balloons to you!
FOURWAY COMPUTER PRODUCTS WILL PAY MEGA BUCKS FOR SIX (6) Beaches Hey, some party, huh? ... Where's(Across from North V1llage Mall). 277­

Mate -w1ll share 3 bedrm. home 1n mce DEPAUL GA'S FOR BIOLOGY TEAC· Were talkln· PUNK Beaches Berta.·.. A TOASTII A TOASTII What?
7720 neighborhood 150 per month. ph. 289­

HER ARRIVING THE 27TH CALL ,can't get enough, Rich? .•. Act1on Jackson 1908 or 272-4109 TERESA AT 41-4489 Clan·g., ..Whoops -I mean Cllnkll /Hope you rebound quickly from your in­Is there any chance of escapmg th1s Okay, one more time with feeling .•. Jury. We need you! 
Available for next school year and I would g1ve an ARM AND A LEG for beautiful South Bend February? A couple RHUBARB, Rhubarb, rhubarb, summer--two f1ve bedroom houses. 234-DEPAUL GA'S Call Alex at 6931. of Punks are g01ng to try this Friday. They rhubarb, RHUBARBIIIII 2626 may not make the sun shine outs1de, but 1t RHUBARB. To the g~rl 1n the LONG BLACK COAT.
DILLON HOCKEY!! DILLON HOCKEY!! 

Desperately need 2 to 4 GA IIX to DE sure as Hell is go1ng to be sunny 1nS1del You made my TRANSPO tnp SATUR­CAMPUSVIEW APT AVAILABLE FOR PAUL game. Call Peter at 8456 Come JOin the fun! DAY fun. I w1sh I could've met you. TheThe TIDE is rollin' in th1s Fnday The 
FURNISHED Punks will be there Will you? 
SUMMER. 1 BEDROOM, THANKS CAROL AND LAUREL ANN, guy 1n the BLUE HAT 
(INCLUDING DISHWASHER); ACCESS Need up to 5 DePaul G.A. tickets. Call Who·s that lovely wench from 4B? TWO OF MY ABSOLUTE FAVE REPOR­TO POOL, AND MORE CALL JO: 277-John at 139·1. TERS I!! YOU MADE MY DAYII meant it spudman thanks for the brunch. the roses
ATTENTION: URGENTLY need to 

0884 PAUL DARLING about the w1ne, Carol ... maybe Boone·s and the sneakers. you made st.
locate witness to an automobile acci­

I Need 2 or 3 GAS FOR DE PAUL PLS. YOU STUD Farm (and Laurel Ann. calculus JUSt valentines's day very spec1a/. Juv, mar­dent on October 10 at 7:30 pm (day of 
4 bdrm house for rent. North shore. $275 HAD A GREAT TIME ON FRIDAY garet adela•de 
CALL JIM X8771 •sn·t nearly as fun ...)
the Florida State Game). The accident 

mo. utthttes tncl. Avatlable Summer BUT WHO SIPS WINE?. AND WHERE Yow Happy go Lucky Day Ed1toroccurred on Cleveland Road, West of 
and or fall 1982. Parkovash. Call Patty I NEED TWO DEPAUL GA TICKETS WERE THE JERKS WHEN WE Nt:EDED Mr. Mojo's rlsln'Juniper, near Oakmont Park subdivi­3193228735 call refunded PLEASE CALL TIM ANY AFTERNOON THEM? THANKS FOR V-DAY CARNA­(and his hair has grown/!)
sion. Please contact Volunteer 

AT 1377 TIONS LOVE SMC SOPH FROM MIL­DearM.
Services, X7308 If you have any In­

Free rent; house for faculty for summer; WAUK P S. YOU OWE A DRINK OFF, NO Happy V-Day (even though th1s IS the ESOPHAGUS CONSTRICTORS formation,_ 
call Patty 3193228735 call refunded. S O.S.! I NEED 1 OR2 DEPAUL TIX. ALL PROBLEM ANNIE IRON STOMACH 
REALLY late (than never)). Both of the shall return MARYx4955 past Fnday mghts have been more fun
TONIGHT ~"-.~T ~--'P.M. IN CARROLL 

FRESHMAN QUINT 4TH FLOOR than... THIS IS NOT AN IMPOSTER Dearest Robert, I hope you've not1cedHALL, SMC :.,. PETER LANCE OF HELP!! I DESPERATE~Y NEED 2 LEMANS ROOM 409 SAYS.. YOURRRR PERSONALifl today IS February 17. P.S. That's a hmt. ItABC'S 20 20. BE THEREIII DEPAUL GAS!! CALL BOB AT 1647 OUT!! s•gned. Matt (HM-etect) means you are 21 today. Happy Birthday! 
FRAT MAN'S GUIDE TO COLLEGE 
WANTED 

Matt, You hoser you,ayy. Are you Now that wasn t too egregmus. was 1t? 
PRANKS Complete I1St1ng of potent 

prepared for a DOUBLE HUMP? But then HI DANApract•cal JOkes only $2. Guaranteed Satis­
I suppose the Cavanaugh Haser WHO LL BE THE LUCKY WINNER OFfaction. Della Sigma Chi-University of 
Humpsters are always prepared. M ATTENTION: $100 IN ALBUMS? Tune 1nto AM-64 for Rochester P.O. Box 5035 River Statton Need a nde to L1ma. OH. Ft. Wayne. IND. 
PERSONALS 
ALL SMC FRESHMEN the results of our BIRTHDAY BONANZA-­Rochester N.Y. 14627 Columbus. OH (that area) for the 
Andy. thank you so much for the carna­GO WITH THE TEAM THAT drawing w1ll be Thursday. Feb. 18 at weekend of feb. 19-21 call x331 0 ask for PROMISES p.m on THE ALTERNATIVE.
tion. and for the 1nvitat1on-so sorry 10:00 Enc 
ACTIONII! WSND. rm sorry Spanky . but rve got to live my 
Rachel. my love. how are you? MICHELLE LOPEZ Need nde to Houston Texas. for spnng own life JAYNE WATTON 12 ROSES ARE RED61 AND BEAUTI­
break. If you are headed 1n that direction 
LOST/FOUND 

tog SUSAN O'HARA FUL TOO A CONFUSED GIRL IN FAR­please call T1mo at 1782 HELP! 4 STUDENT OR GA DEPAUL TIX LEY TO ARE
Scooter, CAROLINE ROCKHART WANTS KNOW-WHO NEE DEDI CALL JODI (SMC)4697 YOU?
Roses and Shakespeare and taking care 
TYPING 28 years as a secretary. Excel­
of me Sat. Thanks for everyth1ng. You·re a LOST GOLD & PEARL FLOWER lent typ1st·-ret1red $1.00 per page. Call TO SMC CLASS 85 TO MAKE YOUR tnp. TO MY DRUG-RELATED ROOMIES. Thanks to everyone who made Monday 
CHARM FROM A NECKLACE. Lost be­Phyllis 259-2501. SOPHOMORE YEAR THE BEST IT CAN WHAT I WANT TO KNOW IS, WHAT mght a little eas1er Steve for antiCipating tween Farley and the Law School. If BE,VOTE CARA HAGEMAN, MARCIA Lobes, Even after all your abuse at EVER HAPPENED TO THE JOURNAL? my every request found, please call Phyllis--6844. AUSTIN,TEXAS area IS where I need a BONICH, HELEN LUCATIS,AND MARY Ardvark·s Castle. I st•ll hope you have a FOR SOME REASON I HAVENT Mike for a s1ngle mumbled compliment? 
REWARD. nde to for break most w1lling to share ex­ANN POTTER FOR SOPHMORE NOTI T CEO MANY BUBBINS AROUND John for parental concern 
great 21st! Laura penses & dnv•ng. Callt791. CLASS OFFICERS THEY WILL DO THE Cheryl for spectacular pictures 
LATELY! PADDINGTON IS GOING TO LOST 1PR XL DARK BLUE SKI JOB. COMMIT SUICIDE SOON IF ONE OF Ryan for your beds1de manner 
RIDE NEEDED TO HOUSTON TEX-FOR
GLOVES IN EG. AUD. MONDAY NIGHT Hey LEP, So you turned 21 -Qwte an old YOU DOESNT START COMING HOME Kay for prov1ng the value of a good aSSIS­PLEASE CALL SEAN 1416 SPRING BREAK---WILL SHARE USUAL Look1ng for a truly portable, yet powerful EARLIER tant
man I'd say. HERES TO RENDEZVOUS CALL CHRIS AT 1678 ANYTIME personal computer? See The Osborne 1. 
Though ld of never guessed from your IN THE BRAR -WITH MORE TIME IN Bruce for unspoken conf1dence LOST: IN 109 O'SHAG, BLUE BOOK­64K. dual 1OOK d1sk dnves. plus $1400 homemade cards on V-Day! THE PIT THAN UPSTAIRS (CAFFINE Pete for mak1ng Dave s absence less ob­SACK WITH ALL MY NOTES & BOOKS. I NEED RIDE TO INDIANAPOLIS worth of software, all for $1795. FOUR­Although I didn't get one, I heard they BUZZ EXTRAORDINARE!); STARTING VIOus PLEASE WHOEVER PICKED IT UP. LEAVE 2 19 ANYTIME; RTRN 2 21 WAY COMPUTER PRODUCTS. (Across Paul for your presence 
were clever, AU (ALCOHOLICS· UNANONYMOUS), GET IN TOUCH WITH STEVE CALL BILL at 7289 from North V1llage Mall). 277-7720 Two, Four, SIX, N1ne shows •ntellegent TO TRIPS TO THE GAZEBO LATE AT Tom lor •ntroduc1ng me to the postman BURKART TEL 3121. fevor. · NIGHT AND STANDING PIGEON·TOED The System for cooperating 
Need nde to from Madison. WI area for COME AND DISCUSS: DIVORCE AND Paula says something about palzyated AT THE FREE-THROW LINE; PUNK lNG The south gate Guard lor tak1ng care of weekend of 2 19-2 21 Share ex­
LOST: BROWN TWEED WOOL SCARF THE CATHOLIC WEDNESDAY, FEB. 17 and you. OUT; ESCAPING TO WISCONSIN; the box at ND-MAIN_E game Jan. 27 1n section penses x8837 AT 6:30 PM. IN THE SAINT MARYS So we came up w1th th1s poem, I hope 1t THROWING ILLEGAL PARTIES (I WON­Your help was essential and appreciated. 1 08 of the bleachers. If found please call COLLEGE CLUBHOUSE. w1lldo! DER WHO'LL FALL DOWN THE STAIRS Suzanne Ross at 1 898. I need a nde to West Lafayette (Purdue) 
The lifesavers were green. AT THE NEXT ONE); TO MAKING GUYS on Friday the ,19th Call Ed at 1582. ATTENTION SMC MISS JUMPS, OR
that you gave to your S1s. LOW THROWING BIG RED FOUND-one key on key cha1n outsrde VOTE So 1f you see Peter B. THEM DOWN STAIRS AT SENIOR BAR; KING TA DAS DILLON CATCHES gate 5 of A.C.C. on Feb. 10th GOING EAST 2 19-21? Need a nde to KATHLEEI~ "MURPH" MURPHY '84 G1ve h1m a huge KISS! TO GOING OFF THE FLOOR; TO YOU, SWINE FEVER EXIt 7 Ohio 'pike call: Steve xt816 
SBP Mel. Meg, Jul. Reets. & Weeb. AND HERE'S TO ME, BEST OF Lost: Navy blue su1t coat. Whoever wore a BETH TIGHE '83 VPAA FRIENDS WELL ALWAYS BE ; TO LD·Biack eyes are cute too. blue swt to the P W SYR on Sat. Feb. 6 Need R1de R1ders to Pittsburgh ELAINE HOCTER '84 VPSA WALKING GUYS HOME ARE YOU check to make sure you brought home the weekend of 19-20. Please call Kev1n at FOR 'fOUR STUDENT BODY HOW S YOUR VISION? PETER SURE HE SAID CHIVALRY LIVES?); TO ODE TO THE DILLON SHA GAS Led to nght navy blue su1t coat. 1139. OFFICERS IS 20!! ABC S FORGOTTEN I HOPE slaughter? I th1nk not. HOLY CROSS IS
LANCES 20 SEE NIGHTS. PETER OF FAR AND
Call3242 THURS. FEB. 18 LANCE, 20 20 FAME. THEY RE FEW BETWEEN; much too hot D1llon Hall IS out of luck. Need nde to Ch1cago! (Western suburbs Watch B•g JUSt the
TONIGHT AT 8 P M IN CARROLL HAl-L. TO MORNINGS IN THE AFTERNOON. Red eat puck of) Feb. 19-21 W1ll share expenses SMC AND MUCH MUCH MOREl QUICK GET Thursday n1ght w1th all the rest They'll see Please call Julie x4824 at SMC. any t1me! For Sate Kaplan MCAT books & notes THE IRON HOT. LOAD THE GUNS. PUT the HOGS are s•mply best. Rola1ds IS a and some other MCAT stuff. Call Pat at ON THE HATS AND SUNGLASSES AND good reliever. But nothmg known can cure 
NEED RIDE HOME FOR 
I need a nde to Oxford. Oh10 [M1am1 U) 287-2405 CHEAP! SWINE FEVER On the 1ce the herd Will
SPRINGBREAK TO NORWALK.CT OR TAKE OFF YOU HOSERS' ONLY WE 
Feb. 19-21 Please help 1f you are headed NEW YORK CITY AREA KNOW EVIL IN swarm From Best to Daly to B1ll Tone­
CALL MATT--WHAT LURKS THE LOST: Green plaid scarf. Last seen han­that way. W1ll share usuats. Call Joe NEED RIDERS TO MARDI GRASII Call 1026 CONFINES OF THE GARAGE Arm. And I think we II prove to you That QIOQ on the wtre fence in front of Badin x6839 Harpo at 8928. LOVE. HOLY CROSS IS T-S and WOO. Hall around 5:30p.m. If you happened to 
NEED RIDE TO SYRACUSE OR UTTICA DRUGS(ALIAS BEULAH. MRS SIT· p1ck 11 up. please call Karen Kostecky PHILADELPHIA. ALLENTOWN. TREN­Bhanu. Youre the greatest. LOVE. FOR SPRINGBREAK --IS ON THE WAY LING TON AND ALL 35 SYBILS) B1g Red IS dead HOLY CROSS IS NUM­8162. TON! R1de needed for spr. brk Call M1ke BER ONE
TO BOSTON --WILL SHARE USUALS at 1386 fast' 
CALL BRIAN 1 026. SMC CLAS5 OF 83
Lost: NEED A RIDE TO AND FROM GAINES­Thursday See D1llon eat ta. catch Texas Instruments 51-55 calculator 1n NEED RIDE TO NORTHERN ILLINOIS VILLE. FLA FOR SPRING BREAK CAN DEANC' VOTECAROLYN BIRCH SWINE FEVER. and d1e HOG HOCKEY the engineering auditorium dunng last UNIVERSITY '(DEKALB) OR CHICAGO LEAVE WED. 10TH WILL SHARE RAY. HOW YA ODIN HAPPY V·DAY! ELLEN CASSIN AT ITS BEST. Thursday at the ACC semester's finals. My name IS scratched AREA ON FEB.19-21. PLEASE CALL USUAL. CALL MARYEVA AT 2909 TERRY PAULER 
LOVE 
•n on the back. Please return. John 8641 4524 (SMC). GUESS WHO! EILEEN BELL McCHICKS·We couldn t let a week go by 
~othtng to do thts Sunday afternoon? without a personal Thanks for the V-tlne s Found: a theology book on south quad on NEED RIDE TO PENN ST ANY Don 1 be bonng-get cultured! See ANN day message Who loves you baby? WE 
2 14. Call Tom at 3176 after 10 pm to WEEKEND Call M•chael233-2969. BOURJAIL Y's dynam•te performance •n Greg Ka·· SWINE FEVER• DOl! S1gned Your Bass Buddies P S.­
•dent•fy. Moreau Hall s L1ttle Theatre at Samt Th1s w1ll be the best JPW ever! SWINE FEVER! When w1ll S W & the 7 D s next appear? Need r. :e to Ft. Walton Beach. FL for Marys, scheduled for 3 p.m. Come and SWINE FEVER!
Love. FOUND: Pa1r of Contact tens near ma1n spnng break. Share usual. Desperate!! watch th1s Western Spnngs. IL semor CATCH IT!!! POPO Hope Llv•ng on Tulsa T1me was
Chapscircle. Call Ted at 1187. Call Tim at 6759. tinkle the 1vonesl!!! really super EPPlE 
L 


The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However, classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid . 
either in person or through the mail. 
Classifieds ...:~~.. 
The Observer 
...Grassey 
continuedfrom page 1() 
all aspt·cts of ba~kl"lball and sportswriting. dm·s IH: plan on pur~uing a t:arc.~t"f in either? 
"I dcllnitdy do not want w bc a ~port~>writcr," he answers. "I would gt•t tired of that too quit:kly. I likt· being involved mort· than on tht· surface. I might, howcvcr, eventual­ly consider coaching basketbalL" 
Grassey is currently intervicwing with several companies in order to make usc of the: Economics degree that he: will rct·eive upon gradua­tion. "I want to work in Nt·w York I(Jr at least a couple of yt·ars," he: ~ay~. "I'm a city pt-rson. I thrive on constant at:tion. After I earn some: money, I'd like to go to graduate schooL But nothing is certain." 
When the Irish travd to the .\kadowland~ in East Rutherford, NJ, tomorrrow night to face Seton Hall, Grassey will be at home. "I suppo~e I'll know about 'iO people at the game," he says. "I've been calling 
sec GRASSEY page 8 

.. .Rugby 
continuedfrom page 12 
elephant walk, and tht·y address the 
st~rious issue ofalcohol abuse, then I 
would set· no problems. 
"I'm very irnpn·ssed with the people who havc: done the work," Roemt·r t:ontinuc:d. "We've had snow removal, mowing of lawns, home repairs; tht•y'vc: really done a remarkable job. We just haw to be ~urc that it has been the 'elephant walkl·rs' who have been doing the work." 
Director of Non-Varsity Athletics Tom Kelly gave the club the go­aht·ad earlier this year to prepare a spring schedule, with the exception of a spring trip, contingent on Roemer's and Corrigan's decision. "Everything I have heard has been very positive," Kelly said. "They seem to be pretty much on track. They're a good group and we want to get them back playing again." 
If the work is completed and the team reinstated, Notre Dame's 1982 spring rugby season will begin at Marquette on March 27. The home opener will be against Purdue April 
3. According to Colarclli, the schedule the club has been able to arrangt· includes four matches plus a tournament. 
... Briefs 
continuedfrom page 8 
Michigan basketball tickets arc available at the second lloor ticket oftkc at the ACC. The game will be held in the Silvcrdomt· in Pontiac, Mich., on Sunday, March '7. Tickets arc priced at S4 and S6. -The Observer 
The scenery is great, the cxcrdsc is good for you, and cross-country skiing is fun. It's also easy to learn. The oftke of Non-Varsity Athletics is sponsoring a learn-to-ski weekend t(Jr Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. For details, call 239-5100. -The Observer 
The Student Managers Organization 
needs freshman participation. Interested freshmen should contacat the Manager's office this week between 2-6 p.m. at 239-64H2. -The Obsen,er 
Cincinnatti and Anderson challenge the Notre: Dame wrestling team in a triangular meet at 7 p.m. tonight in the ACC Pit. The Irish stand at I 1-2-1 entering the final week of the rcgualr season. The Irish arc preparing for the NCAA Midwest Regional Wrestling Championships during the last weekend in February. -The Observer 
ND-SMC ski team members arc encouraged to attend the regional champonships this weekend at Crystal Mountain, Mkh. Call one of the following people by tomorrow to inti.mn them ifyou plan to attend: Sue Hull ( 1674), Nancy Shcft ( 4996-SMC), Steve Hil­bert ( 3659) or Barry Tharp ( 15 7 .0 ). -The Observer 
The SMC basketball team lost to St. Francis (Ft. Wayne), 67-60, last night at the Angela Athletic Facility. Anne Armstrong scored 23 points to lead the Belles scorin attack. Gretchen Meyer tossed in 14. Trisha Nolan and Mary Bayless led St. Mary's in rebounding with seven a piece. The Belles arc now 8-1 5 on the season. Their next contest is against l.U.P.U. in Indianapolis this weekend. -The Observer 

DAYTONA BEACH FORT LAUDERDALE 
SPRING BREAK SPRING BREAK 
8 doys/7 ntghts lodgtng at the beauutul Rtv1ero Hotel fac,ng the ocean tn the DAYTONA Ol;LUXE . DAYTONA ECONOMY 
D 8 doVI/7 nights luxur­8 doys/7 nudhh at the heart of LouderdaJelIous lcdglng at the Diplomat Beach Motel 
Whitehall Inn on the Oceanfront Hotel 

Oceanfront lodging

beach near the p1er! Opttonal Party Bus tn many area!. 
Opt~onal Party Bus 1n

IJ Oceanfront Hotel Poolstde welcome party
many areas C1 Optional Party Bus In Sports .Acttvtttes
Wt:~lcome Party
monyoreos 

All f0k6S
Sports Act1V1f1es 

Q WelCome Party All foxesD Sports Activities 
$139
Disney WOOd Option0 All taxes 

Par!y Bus Option $
D DIM""' WOIId Opllon 
Only$99 
Par!y Bus Option $

Only $119 
Pany Bus Option $ 
JOHN HREBEC 
Phone: 283 -1216 Hours: 5:30-7:00pm 11:00-12:00 pm 


Wednesday, February 17, 1982-page 9 
DAYTONA BEACH 
$195

Hurry! 
Last week to sign up! 
{$50deposit) 
·Includes: -round trip transportation on chartered bus -8 days, 7 nights in oceanfront hotel with pool-free party en route -poolside happy hour every day -one free happy ht. r -free shuttle up a down the strip 
Call· Joni 284-470& or Anne 284-4634 

After your lastexam, 
""· 

what toughquestions will you still be facing? 
Wdon't have your answers. But we'll listen to your questions, 
share some of our own about who we want to become and where we want to journey. For anyone who has considered the path of priesthood, the Holy Cross Fathers' One-Year Candidate Program 



TEACHERS WANTED 
Positions available 
for those with BS 
or graduate degree 
in Math, Physics, 
Chemistry or 

Engineering (US. 
Citizen under age 
29) to teach college and graduate level courses at the Navy's Nuclear Power School in Orlando, Fla. 
provides an opportunity to ask and explore the possibilities in community. 
Contoct: 

Rev. Andre Leveille, C.S.C. Vocetton Director Bo> 541 
• Notre Dome, IN 46556 
(219) 239-6385 
Teaching Experience not required! $19,900-21,600 to start, increas­ing to $27,200-40,350 within four years. 
CALL (317) 269-6197 OR 1-800-382-9404 
For information or an interview, see yourX-AVY reps on campus: I 3-4 March 

The Observer Wednesday, February 17, 1982-page 10 
·'" 
. ...... 

GRAND OPENING 
CELEBRATION REDHOTJAZZ 
08G&8liA3DlY 
~OR1183DABD 

• 
JlITflJ. SEfU iORS... 
H 
~ 
~Ktm~T: 
vu~~~ 
Rt..LoC.;rrzo/1.) 
PAcKE:TS 

Due to Houston's dynamic 
economy, thousands of 
graduates are needed for 
high paying jobs in all 
career fields. Let our unioue 
relocation packet be your ticket to 
the Sunbelt. Heres whats included: 
* 
Employment Referral 

* 
Apartment listings, including pictures & free locator servic 

* 
H0uston city map Booklet


* 
Send your$9.95 to: 

Sunbelt Enterprises 6833 So. Gessner Suite 122 Houston, Tx. 77036 
Writing, playing 
Grassey knows both angles 
These days, instead of writing 
stories about the Notre Dame bas­
ketball team, Grassey is a member of 
the team. 
Grassey, a 6-8 senior from Hacket­
tstown, N.J., vividly recalls the day 
that Coach Digger Phelps talked to 
him about playing for the Irish. "It 
was the day after the Bookstore: Bas· 
ketball Finals last year," he remem­
bers. "I saw Digger in the Sports 
Infomation Office (where: Grassey 
works as a student assistant). He 
said, 'I'd like to talk to you about 
playing for us.' I thought he was 
joking. But I went into his office later 
and he explained what he wanted of 
me. I was shocked." 
'Shocked' seems like a mild term 
for someone who was about to have 
his dream realized. 
"I have dreamed for a long time about being a Notre Dame basket­ball player," Grassey says. "I tried out for the team each of my three years, but I had resigned myself to the fact that I wasn't going to play. It took a while for the realization to sink in." 
Grassey was a good basketball player at Huntington High School in New York, but not good enough to play for a Division I school. He was recruited by 40 colleges coming out ofhigh school, but never received a scholarship offer. 
"I was recruited on the basis of potential, not past performance," Grassey says. "I don't even remem: ber my high school statistics. There isn't much to remember." 
Grassey considered attending other colleges, including a few Ivy League schools. "I might have been able to play four years at places such as Brown," he says, "but I decided to enroll at Notre Dame because I wanted a good education and a good atmosphere. I never had any idea that I'd end up on this team. In fact, I thought my basketball career was over." 
Just how did Grassey end up on the squad? 
"I think it was a matter of being in the right place at the right time," he explains. "Digger needed a big man for practice. I knew him from my contacts with him as a sportswriter. He respected me and knew that I'd give everything I have to the team." 
The role of a walk-on is not easy . He must work hard at every practice, but doesn't participate in many games. Grassey knew this when he accepted Phelps' offer. 
"There's not a whole lot of glory involved," he says. "I basically have to help the team in preparation for the opposing front lines, playing the types of defenses that our oppon­nents play. It's a lot of work, but it's also very satisfying." 
Phelps has not been disappointed with Grassey's contribution. "Gary gives 100 percent all of the time," Phelps says. "He's not as talented as many of our people, but he's a very hard worker." 
Grassey has some comments about his ability as a basketball player. "I have no pretentions about being a starter or logging a lot of playing time," he says. "But my game has improved tremendously since I joined the team. I try to hold my own, and I don't back down. I know a lot more about the game now than I used to know." 
Grassey has been close to Notre Dame athletics since he arrived four years ago. He worked as a student 
r N.D. Student Union presents 
The Bet urn of••••• 

JOHN BAYLEY 
If you missed him at the Jam, now is your chance to catch him LIVE! 

VOCA110N REI HEAT 
~[Pd[p©~ to help you consider the priesthood in the Congregation of Holy Cross 
[Q)~ FridayI  February 26 to Saturd~y I February 27  
7:00 p.m.  12 : 00 p.m.  
~~Moreau Seminary  

by calling the Vocation Office no·cost 239-6385 
'~==============~========================================================~ 
manager during his first semester, being fortunate: enough to land a job with the soccer team. He began working at The Observer during his second semester. At the beginning of his junior year, he began working at Notre Dame's Sports Information Department. During his career as a writer and a manager, Grassey met several Notre Dame coaches (including Phelps). 
"I'm a very fortunate person," Grassey claims. "I've been able to view the sports scene from a few dif­ferent perspe~:tives. It's very interesting to know what goes on behind the scenes. 
"The writer and the fan can only see a sport from the surface," he con­tinues. "They can't ever really un­derstand the ~:hemistry ofa team. So much ofthis game is mental. A lot of thinking is involved." 
Now that Grassey has seen both sides of the fence, he is able to more fully understand the conflicts that sometimes arist: between reporters and sports personalities. 
"A sportswriter can be educated to a game over a number of years," he surmises. "By asking good ques­tions, he can gain a knowledge of what goes on behind-the-scenes. But a writer has to be very careful about criticism. The entertainmem factor often enters into columns. A shoddy job always shows up." 
Phelps realizes that Grassey is also a reporter, and that he could take ad­vantage ofprivileged information he receives as a player. But this is not a problem. "Gary is totally loyal to myself and the team," Phelps ex­plains. "There are certain things that happen inside the team that he could exploit, but he doesn't. He realizes that we're trying to work as a unit. Certain things that happen should not be public knowledge." 
Phelps claims that Grassey's situa­tion is enviable. "He's got a few dif­ferent perspectives on the situation," he says. "Gary now knows what it's like to be a reporter, a spectator. and a student-athlete." 
Now that Grassey is familiar with 
see GRASSEY page 9 
... Items 

continuedfrom page 12 
The annual Irish/Fordham game is always a rough-and-tumble affair . The Irish hold a 10-3 edge in the series, one of the Rams' three wins being a 94-88 win under Head Coach Diggt:r Phelps during his one­year tenure in 1970-71. Notre Dame has defeated Fordham eight straight times, their last loss at home being 89·72 during Phelps' first season un­der the Dome. 
The Irish game from the Meadowlands will be-tdevised by ESPN at 9 p.m. Thursday night, as well as 3 a.m. and 4 p.m. on Friday. 
Jim Simpson and Dick Vitale will handle the announcing chores. The South Carolina game will mark Notre Dame's first and last ap­pearance on CBs-TV this winter. Gary Bender and Billy "I hope Skip Desjardin is at the game" Packer will broadcast the 3 p.m. game. 
PRIZE CATCH -When Phelps gained a verbal commitment from Seattle guard Joe Buchananon Friday, he landed a player who many contend as the leading point guard in the country. 
Midwest Basketball News rates the 6-2 Bu~:hanan tops among its point guard choices, citing his "super pro body, excellent quick­ness" and his ability to run an of­fense, sec: the whole court and pass 
w~:ll. 

With a catch like that, no one has to talk about "the one that got away." 

--·------~-w-........ 
Ihe~rver========================================== 
---~--­

~~4[]1l~~•t============================~==e=d=n=e=sd=a=y='=F=eb=r=u=a=r=y=1=7=,=1=9=8=2===p=a=g=e=l::l
\1olarity 
AL.THOU4H IT ALL SI"AII'TEI> AS A Jl>KE, :I 1li1NK X 


Sirnon 
/...IK£ HO!Jr Doc..roR~.I'LL 
/OL~).,T£ ALL THO.SE' 
130RIN~ Il-L PE:OPLE "' 
BUT I c.ERTAII\JL.Y Doi.J'T 

\1ichael \1olinelli 


Garry Trudeau 
]eb Cashin 


The Daily Crossword 
©1982 Tribune Compfl'1Y Syndicate. Inc. 2117/82 All Rights Reserved 
Campus 
•1 
I: 15 a.m., 3:30p.m. -Computer Class, APPLE Fundamentals, M-115 Computer Center/Math Building 

•2-5 
p.m. -Tax Program, N.D. Tax Assistance Program, LaFortune Student Center 

•4:20 
p.m. -Colloquium, "Confirmation of McMillian's Concept of Discommensurations," Dr. Bryan Suits, University of Illinois, I 18 Nkuwland Science Hall, Sponsored by Physics Department 

•4:30 
p.m. -Seminar, "Nonisotopic Immunoas­say," Dr. Stephan G. Thompson, Miles Labratories, 278 Galvin Auditorium, Sponsored by Microbiol­ogy Department 

•6:30 
p.m. -Panel Discussion, "Divorce and the Catholic," Saint Mary's Clubhouse, Sponsored by Saint Mary's Counciling and Career Ct·nter, Public invited 

•6:30 
p.m. -Meeting, AlESEC, LaFortune Link Theatre 

•6:30 
p.m. -Film, "Danger: Radioactive Waste," y; I .\1addcva Hall, Saint .\1ary's College, Sponsored by Social Ecology Film Series 

• 
..., p.m. -Wrestling, Notre Dame vs. Cincinnati and Anderson, ACC 

• 
., p.m. -Film, "EI Salvador: Seeds of Liberty." LaFortune Little Theatre, Sponsored hy The Central American Awarcnt·ss .\1t·dia Scrks 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, Pctt:r Lance, investigative reporter from ABC's 20/20, Carroll IIall. Saint Mary's College. Sponsored hy Student Anivilks Programming Board. Admission frt'C 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Sculptural .Monuments of In­dia and Southeast Asia," Jack St·wdl. Curawr. Art Institute of Chil'ago. AnncnhtTg Auditorium, Snitc \1 useu m of Art 

•8 
p.m.-Lecture, "Liberal Edueation and .\!oral Charactn." Dr. Waltt·r Nil'gorski, I 17 O'Shaughnessy llall, Sponsored hy The Thomas .\lore S!Kkty 

•,8 
p.m. -Readings, "Tht· .\lanager and Othn Poems." Richard Burns. English pot·t and visiting professor. Hayes Healy Auditorium 

•8 
p.m. -Ice Show, ke Capadc:., ACC 

•8::~0 
p.m. -Speaker, Fdlowship of Christian Athktcs, Track coach Ed Kelly. Dillon Hall Chapd. All arc invited 

•1 
I p.m. -WSND Radio, Album Hour. "I Low Rot·k and Roll." ,loan Jell and tht· Blackhearts, 

• 
.\lidnight -WSND Radio, Speaking ofSports. 


T.V. Tonight 
8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10:00p.m. 
10:30p.m. 11:00p.m. 
11:30 p.m. 
12:00 a.m. I 2:30a.m. 


16 Rcal Pcopk 

22 Shc's A Good Skatc, Charlic Brown 
28 Gn·atcst Amcrk'an lkro 
34 A Hou>t: Dividcd · lknmark Vc>cy's Rchdlion 
46 21st Ccntury Ncws 
22 The Two of Us 

46 The Rcnewcd :\lind 16 fads OfLife 
22 CBS :\1ovic: "Lois Gibbs and till' Lovc Canal" 28 Thc fall Guy 46 Today With Lcstcr Sumrall 16 Lovc, Sidnq· 34 Gcorgc Cakb Hingham 16 t)uincy 28 Dynasty 34 South Bronx: Work in Prugrt'" 46 Calvary Tcmpk 34 Camcra Thrn· 46 .\li!:hiana Today 16 NcwsCentn I 6 22 ll Eycwitncss Ncws 28 :--.Jcwswatch 2H 34 Thl' Dic.:k Cavt·tt Show 46 Praisc Thc Lord 16 Tonight Show 22 CBS .\1ovic: "Last OfTht· Good (;uys" 28 ABC Nt·ws Night lint: 34 Captiont·d ABC Ncw> 28 l.ovc Boat 46 Lcstcr Sumrall Tcaching 16 Lat<: Night With David Lt·ttcrman 
..---:...w_,......, 
l 
... 
-
'~ 

l 
56 Health 
resort 58 Wrath 62 Behaves 
clumsily 66 Adam's mate 67 Ms Lauder 68 Up­
(cornered) 69 Small length unit 70 Della of 
song 71 Was snoopy 72 Sneaky 
DOWN 1 Wail 2 Medley 3 Fender 
casualty 4 Inter 5 Do the lawn 6 "0 Sole-" 7 First name 
in whodun­
its 8 Wigwam: var. 9 Fore and­
10 Pays expenses 11 Consumed completely 12 Silly people 13 Park in 
Colorado 19 Troll 21 Ban 25 Entreaty 26 Chair 28 College 

girl 29 German 
title 30 Aware of 31 Reverie 32 Unruly 
group 35 Avoid 36 Relative 37 Although 39 Travel 40 River 
bank: Lat. 41 Blissful abode 44 Lights a 
fire 46 Cut down 48 "-Ia vie" 49 Motherless 
child 50 Twitted 51 More 
demure 52 Law group 53 Gladden 57 Sell: prel. 59 Jewels 60 Iniquity 61 Depend 63 Ms Meri­
wether 64 Mama's title 65 Hive dweller 
ACROSS 24 Elec. units Coal 27 Eludes scuttle 29 Clumsy 
4 Irish youth patriot 32 Bill of 9 Proverb fare 14 Arena 33 Corn unit cheer 34 Student's 
15 Bete­paper (bugaboo) 38 Table 16 Wines and scrap 
dines 39 Irrigated 17 Succeed 42 Shade 18 Possession 43 Penniless 
of an awk· 45 Assist ward one 46 Chase 20 Gambling 47 Ineffectual game 51 Stephen-, 22 Spire English poet ornament 54 Over again 23 Stratagem 55 Grip 
Tuesday's Solution 

2/17182 



Sports 
Poor first half 
Illini destroy Irish \VODlen83 -53 
By MARK HANNUKSELA 
Sports Writer 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. -Not yet. Notre Dame's women's basketball program is getting a test ofits growth this week, and it found out last night """ it still has some growing to do. The Irish never recovered from a poor first-half per­
-
ketball from several perspectives. He's also thoroughly enjoying his time with the Irish bas­ketball team. See story on page 10. (Photo by Rac­hel Blount) 
~ 
Nearing reinstatement 
Rugby Club continues UJork 
By MICHAEL ORTMAN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame Rugby Club could be returning to action as early as March 27 if the players continue on their present course. They almost have completed the I200 hours of community service that was meated out by Dean of Students james Roemer and Athletic Director Gene 
,' 
Corrigan in September. The I200-hour requirement was issued in response to the team's re­
~ • quest to be reinstated. After the details of a nude "elephant walk" performed by team members during last spring's trip to Houston were disclosed last March, Roemer barred the 30 players involved from ever again playing rugby for "a Notre Dame: group." The athktic depart­ment subsequently canceled the 
I98I spring season, and dissolved the club indefinitely. 
In a letter to club president Nick Colarelli dated September 22, I981, Corrigan and Roemt:r said, "If a player received a lettt:r from tht: Dean of Students dirt:cting him not to play Notre Dame: rugby again, that letter will not be rescinded for him unless he personally has 
~ provided ... 80 hours ofservice ... You may present a petition to us no sooner than February I 5 outlining what has been accomplished in detail to that date with the time card evidence and . . . testimonials ... along with a schedule of tasks still to be-completed at that time." 
Colarelli toldThe Observer yester­day that club members have com­pleted over 700 hours and have contracted another 300-400, leaving a little over I00 hours still to be contracted. A written petition will be brought to Dean Roemer, Colarelli said. 
Included on the list ofcommunitY work activities the team has com­pleted or contracted are raking leaves for senior citizens, cleaning a parking lot in South Bend's North­east neighborhood, working at Logan Center, working with young children in a "Fun ann Learn," coaching basketball at St. Patrick's, hanging storm windows for senior citizens, and saving the student es­cort service on campus. 

Arthur Quigley, an associate professor of electrical engineering at Notre Dame, and chaiqnan of South Bend's Northeast Neighbor­hood Council, has been assisting the 
NBCcancels Irish ­Wolverine BBgame 
By MICHAEL ORTMAN 
Sports Writer 
NBC will not televise the March 7 Notre Dame-Michigan basketball game, The Observer learned yester­day. The network's scheduled telecast of Notre Dame's season finale in Pontiac, however, will not result in a loss of revenues by either university. NBC still will come through with the payment already contracted even though there will not be a teievision camera in the Sil­verdome. 
According to NBC spokesman Tom Merritt, the network had planned to broadcast the Notre Dame-Michigan contest in areas where the ACC tournamt:nt cham­pionship game was blacked out. "We've decided that now we're not even going to do that," Merritt said. 
This will be the only game on 

Notre Dame'"' I98I-82 schedule 
that will not be televised by some 
formance, and lost for the fifth timt:, 83-53, to tht: Uni­
versity ofIllinois here in Assembly Hall before 722 fans. 
The 83 points scored by Illinois represt:nt the largt:st offt:nsive output surrundered by Notrt> :Jamc's nation­leading scoring deft:nst:. 
The 30-point loss was also the worst suffered by the 
Irish this season. 

With the score tied 12-12 midway throught the first 
half, the Illini ran off I 3 straight points, and stayed in 
control the rest of the way, building a lead that re_ached 
30 on two occassions in the second half. 
"I don't know ifwe came to see Assembly Hall or see a good team," Irish Coach Mary DiStanislao said, "but ob­viously, we didn't come to give Illinois a game. 
"Illinois is tht: best team that wt:'ve played," said DiS­tanislao. "I have felt all along that they are a Top 20 team, and if they don't get a bid (to the NCAA tourna­ment), its a real shame." 
Notre Dame led, 4-2, just two minutes into the game, wht:n Illini Coach jane Schroeder ordered her troops into full-court pressure. The Illinois press resulted in five Irish turnovers, and as DiStanislao later said, "That set the tone. 
"It was as if Illinois said, 'Don't mess with us, kids, this 
is our court, and our game.' We do that to people on our 
court. The mark ofa good team is to do it on somebody 
else's.'' 

Freshman Carrie Bates scored I8 points to lead Notre 
Dame. Mary Beth Schueth added 17, despite 5-for-14 
shooting from the floor. 
Schueth, who had her best performance from tht: foul line this season ( 7-for-9 ), added II rebounds. 
Freshman Kendra Gantt scored I9 points to lead four Illini players in double figures. Gantt also had a game­high I 5 rebounds. 
In the first half, the Irish shot 39 percent from the floor. Notre Dame didn't get much better in the second period, hitting just 40 percent ofits shots. 
Illinois shot 55 percent in the first period and finished the game at 49. 
Illinois controlled the boards throughout, rolling up a 21-9 first-half edge and finishing with 49 to Notre Dame's 31. 
The Irish also completed 37 turnovers. 
club in contracting work activity. 
Roemer has been hearing favorable reports on the ruggers' ef: forts thus far, and anticipates few problems if they keep up the good work. "I've been quite impresssed with what I've heard from outside sources," Roemer said. "They haven't submitted a petition as of yet, but I wouldn't see it being late a couple days would make much of a difference. If they can convince us that they have learned their lesson, that there will never again be an 
see RUGBY page 9 

network. 
It would seem that the disappoint­ing record ofthe two schools played a significant role in the network'~ decision. At present the Irish stand 7-13 on the year. The Wolverines are eighth in the Big Ten with a 4-8 conference record, 5-I 5 overall. An­other NBC spokesman who asked not to be identified, called the matchup "a worthless game be­tween two worthless teams.'' 
Metrosports, the independent television network that carries many Notre Dame hoop games, will not pick up the game. "At this late date, it just wouldn't be feasible for us," Leonard Klompus, president of Metrosports said yesterday. "There would be too much to do in too short a period of time.'' 
Tickets for the Michigan game are still available at the Notre Dame tick­et office, and S4 and S6 tickets may be purchased at the Gate I 0 box office of the ACC. 
Wednesday, February 1 7, 1982 -page 12 
Paxson's statistics rematn tmpresstve 
HE'S 6-2, HE'S A JUNIOR ...... -Having highlighted Mike Mitchell, Ron Rowan and other varsity basketballers here this season, it may seem as if we have omitted the most important-John Paxson. 
Actually Paxson's exploits this season are so numerous that there was never enough room in those other columns to list the majority ofthem. So here goes .... 
Paxson leads the Irish in nine different statistical categories, including games ( 20), games started ( 20), minutes-per-game ( 39.3 ), field goals ( I26), free throws ( 40), assists ( 80 ), steals ( 30), points 
( 292) and scoring average ( I4.6). 
Meanwhile, his presence on the court has been nothing short of constant. Ofa possible 8I0 minutes the Irish have played this season, Paxson has been in the lineup for 786 (i.e. he has spent 24 minutes on the bench, an average of 1.2 minutes per game). Until the North Carolina State game, when he spent three minutes off the court, the Kettering, Ohio product had missed only 7 minutes in the last I I games. The Irish were 5-6 during those II games. 
Paxson has led the Irish in scoring in I 1 of their 20 games this season, and has topped the 20-point mark six times. His career single-game high is 24 poilc sagainst both Indiana and Maine. 
Paxson has also dealt out five or more assists in seven games this season. Adding his scoring and assist totals together, the junior guard has been responsible for 452 ofNotre Dame's Il63 points this year, or 38 percent. 
Further, Paxson is one of I0 semi-finalists selected for the james Naismith Award, presented annually to the college basketball player of the year. And boasting a 3.4 grade-point average in business, the 6-2 guard is an Academic All-America nominee. 
CHARITABLE CONTRIBUTIONS -A look at the final shooting summary, rather than the final score, often reveals the fate of the Irish basketball team this season. The Irish have scored the same number offield goals as their opponents this year, 474, but they have been outscored by 48 points from the free throw line, 263-2I5. 

In seven of the last II Irish losses, Notre Dame has equaled or bettered its opponents in field goals, but in those seven games, the Irish have been outscored by 69 points at the free throw line. 
In the past five Notre Dame victories, the Irish have outscored their opponents from the line in every game, amassing an overall 82-37 edge ( 45 point difference). 
SETTING YOUR SIGHTS -One of Notre Dame's biggest problems during the early portion ofthe season was-its slow first half start in most games. However, the Irish have improved their field goal efficiency remarkably over the past month-after hitting 42.2 percent oftheir floor attempts in the first I1 games ofthe season, the Irish have hit at a 54.0 percent ( I22-226) rate from the floor in the first half oftheir last nine games. 
LOOKING FOR A DATE -The Notre Dame-DePaul game, originally scheduled for Saturday, Feb. 27, has been changed to Sun­day, Feb. 28, at the request of NBC Sports. Game time is still set for 2 p.m. 
MARATHON MEN-Next Monday's Notre Dame-Michigan State hockey game at the ACC has been designated Marathon Booster Night. Marathon Oil Co. purchased some 3,500 tickets for the 7:30 
p.m. game in order to promote Notre Dame hockey. The tickets are being distributed to Marathon advertisers and clients, as well as to the general public. 
The tickets are free and are available at participating Marathon dealers in the area. The Monday night contest is the second in a home-and-home series with the Spartans, as the Irish travel to East Lansing for a Saturday date. 
SKATING ON THICKER ICE -Lefty Smith's Irish hockey team has mounted a turnaround oflate which easily surpasses the reversal ofthe Irish court crew. Smith's icers, I8-I2-2 overall and I3-1I-2 for fifth place in the CCHA, have posted a 7-2-I record since Christmas and art: playing probably the best hockey in the league. 
Although a team effort, some of the recent success can be at­tributed to goalie Bob McNamara, a spot starter first semester who has won his last five starts and lowered his goals-against average from 
7.39 to 3.56. His shutout ofFerris State last weekend marked the first individual shutout by an Irish goalie since February 24, I978, when Len Moher blanked Michigan State, 2-0. 
Senior captain Dave Poulin still leads all Irish scorers with 27 goals and 26 assists for 53 points. His 45 CCHA points ( 23-22) rank fourth in the league, two behind Michigan State's Newell Brown. 
BEAT THOSE ...... -The Irish face Seton Hall and South Carolina tl week during Digger's annual "Return to the Big Apple" road trip before coming home to face the Fordham Rams next Tuesday. 
The Irish will be facing Seton Hall for the first time tomorrow in the second half of a college cage doubleheader in the new Byrne Meadowlands Arena, located a basketball's throw from Manhattan in East Rutherford, N.J. The first half of the twinbill features Iona and Nevada-Las Vegas. 
The Irish are 8-4 in their all-time series with the Gamecocks, a series which has been contested annually since the I969-70 season. Notre Dame has won three straight games and its eight wins have come in the last nine games. Its lone setback during that span was by a 65-60 count in Carolina Coliseum during the '77-'78 campaign. 
See ITEMS, page 10 





