
, , .Space shuttle -page 3 

VOL XVI, NO. 116 TUESDAY, MARCH 23, 1982
an independent srudent newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 

EJ.Salvador 
Hesburgh to observe elections 
ByVIC SCIULLI 30,000 Salvadorans have been killed now appears very likely that Duarte News Assistant by paramilitary death squads in the will not capture a majority for a con­past two years. stituent assembly and that power 
University President Fr. Theodore The United States has contributed will pass to a new right wing govern­Hesburgh will leave for El Salvador over S200 million in economic and ment. A rightist victory could this week at the request ofSecretary military aid. Training programs have produce even more war for the al­ofState Alexander Haig to supervise been established in Georgia and ready ravaged nation. the government elections next Sun­Nonh Carolina for training Sal· IfDuarte's party win's the election day. Hesburgh will join vadoran army troop leaders, who are but an extremist on the right es­representatives from other nations largely inexperienced in the type of tablishes himself as a political force, to monitor the election process in battle being fought by the rebels. the suspcion that Duarte and his the war-torn country. The struggle has caused a great government survive only at the suf­
The problems which have torn loss of confidence in the present ferance of the country's oligarchs apart El Salvador are not ·new. In government. There is very little will be confirmed for many in El Sal· I979, dictator General Carlos Hum­hope that any major change will oc­vador and the U.S. beno Romero established a military cur after the presidential elections. Canada and West Germany have civilian junta which immediately The United States is counting on a joined El Salvador's leftists in created a reform program that solid victory by President jose protesting the elections. The leftists nationalized the core ofthe banking Napoleon Duarte and his centrist 
See HESBURGH, page 5
industry and expropriated many of Christian Democrats. However, it the countries larger estates fur dis· tribution among the campesinos. 
Rightist death squads began the 
El Salvadorgroupplans
murdering of men and women suspected of sympathizing with the left. Among these "leftists" were Archbishop Oscar Romero and four 

for Solidarity week 
American religious who were assas· sinated for their work with the na· By FRANCES NOLAN "EI Salvador: Country in Crisis," a tion's poor. Rebel bands News Staff slide presentation, will be shown counterattacked, inflicting heavy tonight at 7 p.m. in P.E.'s Chapel damage on military and economic Lounge, at 9 p.m. in Cavanaugh's targets. The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's El Basement Study Lounge, and at II 
As a result, there has been a Salvador Solidarity Group has reor­p.m. in Keenan's Basement. Tomor­continuing struggle between the ganized and has proclaimed this row the same presentation will be rebels and the leftist armed forces, week El Salvador Solidarity Week. shown at II p.m. in Lyons' Chapel. who have had very little success in Many activities are scheduled in or· 
crushing the rebellion. An estimated der to help educate students about On Thursday March 25, a proces­the situation in El Salvador. sion will march to St. Stephen's The group is concerned with the Church in South Bend where a Mass elections that will take place on will be held in commemoration of March 28 in El Salvador. The elec· Archbishop Romero's assassination tions will choose a constituent as· in El Salvador two years ago.

Libraries face new censorship 
sembly which will have the power Students from Notre Dame will to draft a constitution and name the meet at 4:30 p.m. at Sacred Heart dy TONI RUTHERFORD AND "Democracy is strengthened, not Nightly News, and 60 Minutes 

president. Church and students from Saint CINDY COLDIRON compromised, by dialogue with its covered the controversy. After the 
"It is very unlikely that there will Mary's will meet at the same time at News Staff unelected branch: the courts." 60 Minutes program which covered 
be elections as we know them and Holy Cross Dormitory.An attempt at library censorship the efforts of Williams and his group 
we want to be in solidarity with the The two groups will meet at High­Ubrary book censorship is on the occurred last year at theWashington Citizens for Decency to remove people of El Salvador as arethey way 3I where they will proceed to rise, and two speakers appearing at County Ubrary in Arlington, Va., books, Russell said she received mail being tortured and repressed by St. joe's High School, a central loca­Notre Dame's Library Auditorium where a group called the Citizens for from all over the country supporting 

their government," stated Mary Ann tion for all those interested, in the laM Monday belit:ve that the public Decency had tried to remove from the library's stand against this type of 
Fenwick, a member of the solidarity South Bend community, to join in. i~ unaware of the implications. its shelves a number of books that censorship. 
group. The group will then march to St. 
Mary Kathnine Russell, Director they considered unfit. Russell An official seven-member team Stephen's Church where they will 

of the Wa.,hington County Library in described how she fought the cen­Russell urged all librarians to be from the U.S. chosen by the State attend the special Mass. Arlington. Va., dist·ussed her par· sorship threat. aware of their state laws regarding Department will observe the elec­Students interested in going to ticular struAAk with library censor· the library's rights in this type of 
tions in El Salvador. Fr. Theodore Chicago on Saturday March 27 for a .,hip 10 bt·gin the colloquim entitled When some ofthe town's busines­situation. She also recommends 
Hesburgh, president of the Univer­national demonstration will leave at "Censorship and the Ubrary." john smen were arrested for selling close contact with the community 
sity of Notre Dame, will be one of 8 a.m. from the Main Circle. Any stu­Robinson, attorney and visiting pornographic material, Rev. Tom because the support she received 
the members of this team of obser­dent who would like more informa­professor of philosophy at Notre Williams filed a complaint with the was very beneficial. 
vers. tion should call Paulita at 277·3283. 

Dame, followed Russell lecturing on library about some books he found the legal ramifications ofcensorship. objectional. He requested that these ..
....
Russell said that the public cannot books be removed from the shelves. depend on the courts to stop censor· Russell refused to allow this sort of ship. "Whatever courts fail to do or censorship, stating that the ap­not to do," ht· said, "it is up to us to proved library selection policy had convince our fellow citizens that the been followed in selecting the strength of the nation lies not in books. book h:arning hut in the free ex­change ofideas." Williams then requested a list of 
He said that a democratic state has borrower's names to see if juveniles a special interest in its citizens being had asked for books by authors such educated and selt~governed. "If we as Sidney Sheldon or Harold Robins, are to remain politically free then two of the authors he objected to. our educational system must foster This request was also refused. The the development of critical skills library was then threatened with a where the students think for them· suit for supplying pornography to 
selves," remarked Robinson. juveniles. Although the suit was 

Stating that the most lasting les­never filed, Russell said she received sons we teach children are not what some comfort from the Virginia law we assign them to read but our con­exempting libraries from prosecu­duct, Robinson said that a school tion. system that distorts human reason­ing is, in the end, intolerant, critical, Russell credits her success to 
and unproductive. community support and help from 

Robinson said that it is the duty of the American Library Association. "I the local school board to see that a can't say enough about their help. tolerant educational system exists. They were on the phone anytime I Bend weather.(photo by Rachel Blount) 
He also noted that something good needed them and gave me a lot of 
It's not Florida, but the recent warm weather is a welcome relief from the usual dreary South 
might result from censorship. moral support." Nightline, NBC 


Tuesday, March 23, 1982-page 2


ewsBrie/§ 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
A man described as "husky and very muscular" ac­costed a Saint Mary's student in the area west ofFlanner Hall shortly after 1 am. Friday, March 12. lbe woman escaped to the nearby security office when she struck him in the face after he grabbed her arm. The assailant was described as about 21 years old, six feet, two inches in height, 170 to 180 pounds, dark brown hair and beard, wearing a blue jacket and blue jeans. The victim said he did not 
appear to be the "student type." -The Observer 
Saint Mary's student Laura Hartigan, freshman, suf­fered a broken neck in a car accident on the Florida Turnpike near Fort Lauderdale duringSpring Break. She was taken by her parents to an Atlanta Hospital, close to their Georgia home. Four other Saint Mary's students were in the car, but they were not injured. Hartigan was asleep when the car hit a rut in the road and then bumped into the guard rail twice before going into a spin. Hartigan expects to be out ofthe Atlanta hospital today ifher tests are satisfactory, and she should return to school later next week. -The Observer 
After 100 days of military rule the same refrain is heard from weary Poles waiting in mind numbing lines for scarce goods: the martial law regime has brought a certain order to Poland, but no oranges. The long lines and shortages are essentially unrelieved and, in some cases, worsening. "The people are weary," concedes a government official. "They have no idea ofhow the future is going to tum out, and that is a cause for much concern." The objective ofthe military crackdown was to stop what the government saw as the independent union Solidarity's challenges to Communist Party con­trol of the country. The premier also wanted to halt Poland's economic decline that brought chronic shortages of food and raw materials, constant labor unrest and a crushing foreign debt. Martial law authorities ha-.e said that economic recovery is at least two or three years away. "I don't think they have that kind of time, or that the people can wait that long," said the Western diplomat. "Pol~d is already an economic basket case." -AP 
With its tentative pact with the united Auto Workers Union, General Motors Corp. gained more ammunition to battle Japanese competitors than Ford Motor Co. got in its contract signed earlier, industry analysts said yesterday in Detroit. "GM wanted more from the start," said Harvey E. Heinbach, vice presi­dent at Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner and Smith Inc. in New York. "And they worked a little harder to get it." The UAW's 26-member international executive board was expected to approve the tentative pact yesterday, said union spokesman David Mitchell. The next step is a vote Thursday in Chicago by the UAW's 290-member GM council The council, made up oflocal union leaders, can vote to recommend that rank and file approve or reject the pact, or make no recommendation. Heinbach said GM clearly intends to improve productivity as well as inhibit the growth in workers' pay. He cited GM's push for help from the union in curbing rising health care costs and worker absenteeism, and strong insistence on changes in plant work rules -things not included in the Ford agreement. -AP 
While plans for nuclear plants are being abandoned in the West because ofgrowing expense and opposition, Eastern Europe is forging ahead with ambitious nuclear power projects. The communist countries of Eastern Europe are planning to sharply increase their reliance on nuclear power, and have set high goals for expansion. The region's trend toward nuclear power was accelerated by the poor performance of the Soviet bloc's centrally planned economies last year. In the United States, where there are 71 plants in operation, construction is being stopped on 19 nuclear plants, partly because of fierce resistance by local com­munities, according to figures of the Nuclear Regulatory Commis­sion in Washington. Nuclear power provides about I 0 percent ofthe electricity produced in the United States. Increasing costs of con­struction and expensive safety features combined with a decreasing growth rate in demand for electricity have also helped stop work on some U.S. plants. In recent months the government-run media of every East European nation has said the communist countries can no longer afford growing energy costs caused in pan by imported oil Most East European cities are dimly lit after dark and neon signs are rare. In cities throughout Romania, which has one of the Soviet 
bloc's hardest-hit economies, authorities imposed regular cutoffs of electricity as pan ofa fuel-saving program. -AP 
Municipal leaders in four Midwestern states say they liked President Nixon's program for cities better than President Reagan's reductions and grant consolidations, a Purdue University pollster says. Federal budget cuts for cities may mean layoffs, elimination of some city services and user fees for the ones that remain, the leaders told David Caputo, a political science professor. Caputo surveyed mayors, city managers and finance officers of 163 communities in Illinois, Indiana, Michigan and Wisconsin. Each of the cities had populations of 25,000 or more. Caputo said he found that city officials were about evenly divided over tax increases. Many said they could not realistically raise taxes. Consequently, they predicted some services would be eliminated. When the survey was taken in October 1981, all four states were experiencing substa,ntial economic difficulties. In the five months that the results were tab­ulated, not much has happened to improve the financial outlook for 
those states, he said. As a result, Caputo said he doesn't think the 
attitudes of the municipal leaders have undergone any major 
chafiges. -AP 
Mosdy sunnyand a bit warmer today. High in upper 4os to near 50. Increasing clouds late tonight. Not as cool Low in the low to mid 30s. Cloudy with light rain possibly developing tomorrow. High in low 50s. -AP 

Blasting off into limbo 
Just as it has done twice before, the space shuttle Columbia blasted into space yesterday. The glamour of the launches is beginning to fade somewhat. Dan Rather (complete with sweaters) is spending less time interupting the morning game shows and afternoon soaps to report the latest rocket bum. The actual blas­toffs are all beginning to look alike, and Astronauts 
Lousma and Fullerton would no doubt be disheartened 
to discover public recognition of their names is rather 
low. 
But as the saying goes every cloud has a silver lining, 
and the lack ofsheen on the shuttle is fine as far NASA is 
concerned. They would much rather have the public 
saying: "Oh that shuttle thing is up there again?" as 
opposed to: "Well Earl, how big an explosion do you 
think it'll make this time?" 
However after all the investment of time and money 
in the shuttle system, it would be unfortunate indeed if 
the attitude of the public and congress for that matter 
became one of disintrest. In this same space about a 
year ago after the successful completion ofthe first mis­sion, I outlined the great potential and almost limitless uses this country could derive from the shuttle. During the past year the concept of the system has been more than proven. The 
are 

turnaround time between on alone. 
missions, a critical factor if A final note on the French. 
the shuttle is to be a reusable They have developed a 
spacecraft, has steadily cheap disposable rocket that 
decreased. Those pesky tiles can carry the same types of 
that make the shuttle satellites the space shuttle 
resemble a flying brickyard, will be carrying at less ex­
and protect the spacecraft pense. Already several U.S. 
form the heat of re-entry are firms including GTE have 
becoming less irksome. The cancelled plans to launch 
problem that caused a with the shuttle and have 
shortening of the second gone with the French. 
mission was traced to no­The current situation 
thing more serious then a with the space shuttle is not 
clogged oil filter. new, it is an example of a 
So the hardware is in malaise that has afflicted this place and working, the ques­country for sometime. We tion now is: what are we built great cities and then let going to do with it? As of them crumble. We built the 
now, the shuttle's primary mission will be to serve as little more then an orbiting boxcar. It will blast into orbit several times a year carry­ing communications satellites, the same kind which bring you HBO and ESPN. Some ofthe cargo will be ofa 
more ominous nature. The military has already 
reserved over 60 percent of the flights for classified 
cargoes of qadgets designed for spying and blasting 
other Russian gadgets. 
Unfortunately, the shuttle makes an expensive truck. 
Most of its future cargo is already being carried by un­
manned rockets that while being non-reusable, are 
cheaper to use and throw away then it is to operate the 
complex shuttle and then refurbish it. This philosophy 
by the way is the same one used by certain sleazy bars as 
an excuse for giving you your beer in a plastic cup in­
stead ofa real glass. 
Essentially the space shuttle in which we have in­
vested billions is going to be used for projects that 
really only needed a rocket costing millions. What 
about all the great potential? Well our friends in Europe 
know a good thing when they see it. They have built a 
Design Editor .................Suzanne La Croix Design Assistants ................... Kay Holland Troy Illig Typesetters.......................... Stephen Brown 
Steve Burg 

News Editor .................... Bob Vonderheide Copy Editors ..........................Valerie Evans 
Kathy Murray 

Editorial Layout.................... Paul McGinn Sports Copy Editor .................. Ed Konrady Typlst....................................John McCarthy B & T Layout.............................Alex Szilvas ND Day Editor ....................... Greg Swiercz AdDesign .................................. Corby Salek Pbotograpber....................... Rachel Blount 
Guest Appearances ...... NO NERVE, 
PAIN Klu.ER, 
TOWEUNG INFERNO 

The Observer (USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer 1s published by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Mary s Col­lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wntlng The Observer P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduct1on nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 

orbiting laboratory called Spacelab that will ride into space on the shuttle. The United States has taken a mini­mal role in this project. 
One argument long offered is that space belongs to everyone, and that all the nations of the world should work together in exploration. Not only does this spread the cost over a larger base, but it promotes international harmony, something that is worth any price. The Rus­sians have plans to launch a joint manned mission with the French. Those same French along with most of the rest ofWestern Europe made plans to _send a spacecraft to analyze Haley's Comet when it makes its net ap­pearence in 1986. The United States was an active par­ticiapant in this program and had already spent millions when suddenly we dropped out earlier this year. The 
Europeans continuing 
largest industrial complex in the world and let it drift into dissuse, a victim offoriegn competition. We as a people excel at setting a goal and attaining it, but once we have suceeded we drift and waver in utilizing our success. 
The space shuttle is the most complex piece of tech­nology developed by anyone anywhere. What is needed is a strong commitment in a positive direction for our space program. So far the Reagan Administration has come up with no long range policy. Without a goal, a plan, we will posess a mechanical marvel that is the pride ofall, but the benefactor offew. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views ofthe author, and do not necessarily represent the views ofThe Observer or its editorial board. 


EAllR IX!B.A $$$$ Sell display advertising for the Observer. Positions now open. Contact Chris at 289-8808 or 289-&818 byl'riday 



Tuesday, March ~3, 1982-page 3 

Space shuttle Columbia launches 
CAPE CANAVERAL (AP)-Colum­bia set olf spectacularly on its third and longest journey yesterday -a 3 million-mile test of the shuttle's ability to withstand the incredible temperature extremes ofspace. 
One hundred-fifty miles above Earth, Commander Jack R. Lousma and Pilot C. C.ordon Fullerton im­mediately began scientific and ther­mal tests that will make their seven-day, 116-orbit flight Colum­bia's busiest yet. 
They circled the globe every 89 
minutes, .20 seconds. 
"Unbelievable -much fun," Fullerton, a rookie astronaut, told Mission Control's Sally Ride, an un­tested colleague. "You've got to try it." She agreed, and he called working in weightlessness like "learning to swim." 
lousma and Fullerton asked for, and got, permission to spend a few minutes being just tourists: to gawk at Mother Earth. Their reaction to a view privileged to few mortals was typical ofall the astronauts who had been there before them. 
"The first part of the flight was a real barnburner," said Commander Lousma 
"We've got a pretty spectacular view. We're looking down at Hawaii down there somewhere. We see a lot ofdouds and blue water.' .' 
"We have a very clean spacecraft," 
said Flight Director Tom Holloway, 
who guided the ascent. "It looks like 
we're offto a great start.'' 
And a great start it was. 
More than a million people watched the launch from waterside sites along the Florida Space Coast. Authorities said it may have been the largest spaceshot crowd ever. Spec­tators are being permitted next Monday when Columbia is scheduled to land on the Army's White Sands Missile Range. 
President Reagan watched liftoff on television and called it "a magnfi­cient achievement." On launch-eve, he telephoned the astronauts, wished them Godspeed and good luck and said: "All America is proud of you and those who made it pos­sible." 

Oak Room popularity 
•

mcreases, Senate says 
ByDANKOPP 
N~sStaff 
The Oak Room, established last year, finally ha-; begun to gain popularity with the student body. l.ocated in the South Dining Hall, the late-night eating facility's popularity hao; almost doubled since Septem­ber. 
This encouraging statistic wa'! revealed at the Student Senate meeting last night. This government body lobbied hard for the res­taurant. 'lbe increa'IC is said to be due to better advertising. 
Student Body President Don Mur­day concluded that the Oak Room's popularity "shows the need for anal­ternative to the Huddle on campus.'' lie said that the administration docs not necessarily want to make money on the facility but it does want to see student support. 
In other business Student Govern­ment Executive: Coordinator Frank Tighe explained the difficulties stu­dents have been having at the dining halb when they lose their l.D.s. 
In pa<;t years when students forgot or lost their l.D.s, they were able to obtain a refund for the meal charge by showing their l.D.s when they were found. Director of Food Services James Robinson told Tighe that system swamped his office with paperwork and encouraged fraud. 
Since September refunds have been very difficult to obtain. Tighe reports that Robinson does not refund charges due to athletic ticket 
istribution. Tighe said, "The only oplc who seem to get refunds are hose who have gouen their wallets He then makes sure they 
vc: reported the loss to Security.'' Other students without I.D.s are reed to pay more than four dollars 
or a dinner that they have already aid for in their room and board. Tighe proposes that a better sys­can be established, especially 
lth the new computer system. He tans to work further on the project, oping to convince Robinson to 
come more lcniant. Also in the meeting Julian Rowe, nior Class President, complained 
fthe limitations upon class govern­c:nts. S7')0 is allocated to each lass but Rowe claims that is not nough to make class governments 
c:ctivc:. 
Rowe said, "We are considering oposing a S 1 class fee on tuition d that would upgrade class vernment." Murday concluded the meeting with a report of his visit to several other campus's student centers. His trip was part of a study he is undertaking for the Board of Trus­tees on the need for a Student Cen­ter at Notre Dame. 
By looking at the facilities at Northwestern, Duke, Villanova, and several other universities, Murday plans to be able to make some general conclusions. u Acentral loca­tion is a must," he said. 
If the Student Center ever is es­tablished he said, "It really is the students who will make this thing go." He called for strong coopera­tion between the halls, the Student Union, the class governments, and the student government. 
There was a cauldron of fire and an outlandish roar as Columbia's three engines and two rocket boos­ters catapulted the ship off launch pad 39A at 11 :00:08 a.m. Seven seconds later, the ship cleared the 347-foot launch tower and arced majestically backward over the At· !antic Ocean. Ten minutes into the flight, the astronauts were in orbit, skimming over the world at 17,400 mph. 
Lousma had been in space before, on the 59-day flight of Skylab 2, but his heart rate at launch jumped to 132 beat per minute -double the rate at rest. Fullerton took launch with a placid 92 beats. 
Half-way to orbit, one of Colum­bia's three auxiliary power units (APUs) overheated, but Holloway said it probably would right itself when cool. "Right now the APU is considered healthy and usable: for entry," he said. The same unit gave trouble on the Flight 2 launch, had to be shut down prematurely, and worked on reentry. 
The units operate the steering sys­
tems on ascent and reentry. 
The errant unit reached a tem­
perature of 330 degrees -five 
degrees above the danger line ­
when it was turned off. 
During the flight, Columbia will be a methodical sunbather, carefully measuring exposure on all sides to gauge its effects. Late yesterday, the astronauts were to point the ship's tail to the sun, holding it there for 28 hours. Tomorrow, Lousma turns the ship's nose to the sun and leaves it that way for 80 hours. Saturday, the 
open cargo bay and its instruments are pointed to the sun for 28 hours. 
In sunlight, Columbia's systems must endure temperatures of 250 degrees Fahrentieit; in shadow, readings drop to 215 below zero. 
Lousma and Fullerton were un­abashedly enthusiastic in the opening hours of flight. Lousma looked into the cargo bay and told Mission Control: "We see the American flag and we've got 'Canada' written on the arm." Canadians built the robot arm that sits in the bay. 
: 
• 
: 
•
•
: 
•
• 
: 
•
•
•
•
• 
: 
•
•
• 
:
•
•
• 
Spring Concert 


•.NOTRE DAMECONCERT BAND 
TUES. -MARCH 23rd .Ate 
University ofNotre Dame ADMISSIONFREE 8:15pm 
JUNIORS! !
•

Last chance to sign up for :
•
•

Senior Portraits time sittings : 
•
•

March 23-26 : 
•
•

2ndfloor LaFortune •
•
•

9:30am-5 :OOexcept 1-2pm : 
•
•
•

239-5183 :
•
• 

Sophomore class president Lou Nanni makes a point at last night's Student Senate meeting. See Dan Kopp's story at left for details. (photo by Rachel Blount)
f..............jUNiORS'''''''l 
I I
I SeniorTripsign-up andcollections I 
~ WEDNESDAY and THURSDAY ~­~ I
! $50 NON-REFUNDABLEdeposit I ~ saves you a place! ~ 
I I 
~ LaFortune 11-2pm 1 ~ LeManslobby 11-1 pm ; 8-9Pm ~ 
~.......................................................................~ 
..._..au..........IIHRIIIIIIUUI...IIIIQiau...ll............l._......,_________ 
Cogimo·g tlJoUt Cl)egign 
18461 St. Rd. 23 South Bend, call for appointment 2 77-18 75 
-shampoo, conditioner, cut style Guys--$7.DO (reg. 13.00) Girls $10.00 (reg.18.00) For Co-Designers Only. 
...................................................................-.................____......................... 

sPm -lO:JOPm Fri. and Sat. 5Pm -12:30Am 
I 
t 
I 
' 
Tuesday, March 23, 1982 -page 4
The Observer 

. ' ·,•' :. ~~:~~;.:. •: ,,~~d "• ~= ·.,,,'1"'-·"'Af\:'toJ~·'·M·~.,p~~J'Iy.,.~
. 

r," ~·t"1!>.~,'.~ lf(....~~W-••, :·.. . 
·.··'ff;· ..~. . zs.•. 
··10. ..
J>• 
.r ......... 
-~:. 

~~official beerofThe Charlie Dani~ls Band: 
-----·~-------------------' 


The Observer Tuesday, March 23, 1982-page 5 
City officials step up Fort Wayne recovery plan 
FORT WAYNE (AP) -As the 
flood swollen rivers of Fort Wayne 
neared the magic number of 20 feet 
yesterday, city officials stepped up 
their recovery plans. 
Mayor Winfield Moses Jr. said he would not lift the city's flood emer­gency declaration until the flood­waters drop to 20 feet. By midday yesterday, the Maumee River stood at 20.5 feet. 
Some of the 9,000 people made homeless by a week of flooding con­tinued returning home Sunday as city and county building inspectors certified some of their dwellings were safe. 
"Our goal is to wrap this up in 30 days," said Moses, who was out sick yesterday after a week of round-the­clock supervision of flood emer­gency efforts. 
State pollee and national guard 
troops, on special duty in Fort 
Wayne all of last week, returned to 
their regular posts yesterday in Allen 
County. 
City police said all major streets 
were open in Fort Wayne. 
All city schools, except Nebraska 
Elementary School on the city's 
westside which was hardest hit by 
flooding. alo;o were open yesterday. 
The massive sandbag filling opera­tion at the city's Memorial Coliseum was shut down over the weekend and a stockpile of 97,000 sandbags was transferred to city garages. 
Moses said an additional one mil­
lion sandbag.~ fortifying the city's 
eight miles ofdikes would remain in 
place until "well into the spring." 
The flood victims' assistance cen­
ter, a central clearinghouse for 
flood-related problems, was to open 
today at Central Catholic High 
School. 
Federal, state an<l local agencies were to have representatives available for counseling victims and helping them apply for assistance. Private agencies also were to be on hand to provide emergency food, clothing and other items. 
City officials said the initial bill for fighting the flood was S600,000. That included only the price ofsand, dirt and equipment purchases. It will be at least two to three weeks before the .city knows the final total flood bill, not counting the overtime for city workers. 
More than 35,000 volunteers also worked in emergency operations through the week offlooding. 
Building inspectors started a house-to-house check of structural damage and electrical and heating problems Sunday. 
Of the 500 homes inspected, 
about one-third still had water in 
basements and could not have utility 
service restored. Despite announce­
ments ofthe inspection schedule by 
the local media, some residents 
were not at home to let inspectors 
conduct their tours. 
Most homes in evacuated areas 
had the utilities disconnected and 
city officials said gas and electrical 
power would not be restored with­
out a building inspection. 
Some evacuees, though, returned to their homes even if they didn't have heat and electricity. 
Inspections are expected to take a week to I 0 days, said Betty Collins, the inspection team's coordinator. 
"We were getting them out ofbed yesterday, but they were smiling when they came to the door," said Paul Hudson, a city building inspec­tor. 
7 

While the flood waters have begun to recede in cleanup work ahead of II. See AP story at left. Fort Wayne, Indiana, the city still bas a lot of (photo by Cheryl Ertelt) 
.. .Hesburgh 

continuedfrom page I 
are boycotting the elections for two reasons. Many leftist leaders refuse to enter the country for fear ofassas­sination by rightist death squads. Secondly, the party representing the leftists has been forced to split into smaller parties. The division will certainly divide the vote, decreasing the party's chances for victory. 
Duarte has been ostracized by both sides in the country. His sup­port for the Land Reform Policy in the country caused members ofthe right to label him a communist. Left­ists have called him a puppet of the military. Hesburgh believes a vic­tory for Duarte will give him leverage to pursue more peaceful means in the country and the pos­sibility for the containment of the military. 
Critics feel that Hesburgh's presence in El Salvador will appear as a legitimization of the govern­ment. Fr. Ernest Bartell, Economic Executive Director ofthe Helen Kel­logg Institute for International Studies at Notre Dame thinks that Hesburgh "is not there to baptize the military junta and to sanction humaln right violations." 
"I am not legitimizing anything," said Hes!Jurgh.."1 am just going to look at the elections to see whether or not they are being run honestly." 
Hesburgh added that with all the 
concern over the process in El Sal­
vador, people should be "screaming" about the situation in Nicaragua where there will not be a democratic election until 1986. 
The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's El Salvador Solidarity Group has planned several events for the week of the election. On March 25, the group will march from Notre Dame to Saint Mary's and then to the Justice and Peace Center in downtown South Bend. A service will follow in St. Stephen's Church. The group sponsored a similar event last year. Several members also plan to attend the national rally in 
Chicago on March 27, 





LOVERBOY 
With Special Guest 

FRIDAY, APRIL 16 8 pm ACC -Notre Dame Univ. South Bend, Indiana Tickets $9 and 10. Reserv.ed Seats. 
T1ckets ava,lable at A C C Box off1ce. Robertson's 1n South Bend and Concord Mall. Elkhart Truth. F1rst Source Bank (mam off1ce) St Joseph Bank (mam off1Ce). and Suspended Chord 1n Elkhart 

Business & Technology_Tu_esday_,Mar_ch_23,I_982-.:..pa~ge6 


Economic Update 
I 
l· An OPEC agreement to reduce its output of oil to 
17.5 million barrels a day has raised doubts about predictions of further widespread oil price cuts. Few oil experts believe that OPEC's agreement on Saturday to trim production by about 700,000 barrels a day will, by itself, tighten the oil market. Rather, they say, the accord is part ofa strategy ofholding the troops together in the 
t hope that, as the days wear on, demand for oil will revive. In part, the t production cuts were central to the effort to keep in line all13 mem­bers, some of which have openly threatened to reduce prices uni­
! 
;. 
laterally. Perhaps more importantly, they are intended to have a
i 
psychological impact -to dispel expectations ofaprice break. That
' 
in tun couW slow the large inventory reduction that OPEC believes is under way and shore up open market prices, which are now as much as six a barrel below official OPEC levels. 

Ford Motor Argentina, struggling with the rest of the auto industry through the country's worst recession in 50 years, announced the discharge ofnearly 3,000 employees on Friday night. The action, reported in a statement by the company's president,jose Courard, affects 22 percent of the 13,000 administrative and as­sembly line workers at the auto maker's three plants here. Ford ear­lier had furloughed most workers on half pay and nearly halted production this month because ofoverstock. Auto sales in February fell to their lowest level since 1966.
•· 
United Auto Workers President Douglas A. concessions contract with General Motors Corp. Fraser was surrounded by most ofhis bargaining 
in an attempt to save the No.1 U.S. automaker The U.S. Chamber of Commerce has en-unitas beanswered questions about the tentative 12.5 btllton. (AP photo) 
dorsed the Federal Trade Commission's appeal to Congress to 
restrict the agency's authority in regulating unfair business 
Emergency program urged
practices. The chamber complained in testimony before a Senate 
Commerce subcommittee that the FTG in the past has used its vague 
,·. 
authority "to intervene broadly in the market." Martin F. Conner,'· testifying for the Chamber, supported the view by three of the four 

Farmers face economic crunch 
..' FTC commissioners that Congress ought to write a definition of By CHAiu.Es RICHARDS Bentsen said in remarks accompany­state, Bentsen said"unfair'' business practices, instead ofleaving it to court precedents. Associated Press Writer ing the resolution.
FTC Chairman James C. Miller Ill, told the same Senate panel He noted that the secretary of Thursday that the definition should sharply limit commission ac­Senator lloyd Bentsen, D-Texas, in­"Many farmers have given up and agriculture has tremendous dis­.. tions against companies. troduced a resolution Monday ur­sold out, so many that used farm cretionary authority under the 1981 ging the administration to equipment is a drag on the market in Farm Bill. That legislation authorizes implement an emergency farm hard-hit areas such as the Texas Pan­him to implement the Economic program to help farmers out ofwhat handle. Many more farmers are han­Emergency loan program, which
-. Wall Street Update 
he termed their biggest crisis since ging on by their fingernails. would make as much as $600 mil­
·; 
the Great Depression. lion in emergency loans available through the FHA. 
·'· The stock marketstaged a sharp rise yesterday as the SenatorJohn Tower, R-Texas, and Other senators sponsoring the rally that began last week picked up momentum. Trading was active. 16 other senators joined as co­Bankers have refused to lend to Analysts said there as no single dramatic news event to explain the 
sponsors of the resolution, which them because their equity by years To date, in response from pleas market's upsurge. They said traders apparently were encouraged by 
noted that farm income is lower position is so badly eroded by years from congressmen of both parties, the steady showing of stock prices in recent sessions, as well as than it was in 1932, the worst year of oflosses. Block has responded only that in hopes for lower interest rates. The Dow Jones average of 30 in­
the Depression for agriculture. some unspecified time he will issue In particular, the resolution urges "They are no longer bankable proposed regulations for thedustrials climbed 13.89 to 819.54, for its largest single-day gain since 
it rose 21.59 points onJan. 28. Advances held a 4-1 edge on declines 
Agriculture Secretary John Block to Bentsen said. "Those farmers are program, Bentsen said. at the New York Stock Exchange. Big Board volume totaled 57.61 
implement the Farmers Home Ad­going to the Farmers Home Ad­million shares, against 46.25 million in the previous session.-AP ministration Economic Emergency ministration, their lender of last "This is totally inadequate. Many loan program which could provide resort. But, in their hour ofneed, the farmers have already started plant­up to $600 million in new loans for Farmers Home Administration is not ing. All over the state, they should farmers. there. The FHA in Texas is not even already be well along on land "The situation facing farmers in considering new applicants until preparation. They do not have time Texas and elsewhere is critical. they have processed all of their old to wait around for the bureaucracy.
Ir-------------------------~I 
Forecasts for the coming year place customers." They rteed financing now -not next 
real net farm income at about $5 bil­By that time, it will be too late for week, next month, or next year. For lion -lower even than in 1932," many, if not most, farmers in the many farmers, there is no next year." 
1 HolyCrossFathers I 
I I 
I I
1 Vocation Counseling I ~......................................................................................... 
!here wUl be a 

I I 
mandatory meeting for

I H I I Applications for the 1982-83 ~ 
1 . ow do I know I 
all Observer news

I if I have a vocation to the priesthood? I 
I ~ 
I II 
reporters tonight at

1 Student Government 1
I Wat is the academic 
6:10 pm in the

~ and formation program for becoming a priest? 1 Lal'ortune Little '!heatre
I -------------··w:t·scholarships and I i Cabinet Poisitions ! 
{lst fioor).

D financial aid are available for seminary training? I !
I ·------·-I
I , .., I ~ willbemade availablestarting I 
1 WWhat are the various I 1 apostolic ministries of the Holy Cross priests? I 
I March 23 I
I H I 
I ow do I pray 
I

! if I'm thinking of a vocation to the priesthood 1 I atthe I 
Q and rm not sure? 1 
I I I I 


I I 'Student Government OfficesI 
For a personaL confident1al inter\Jt.>lo\. ~1lh no obhqat1on. I
I I
please \\rite or call the \OCalton dnt'Ctor ~ ~ 
I 
Re< ~"d"• L''"''ll'·· '-'·' I helps
1 on the secondfloor ofI.aFortune.
Bo, 541 ~ 
I -~~~ I prevent 
For appo~rHm•. nt.

I birth
call bel\lot•t.•n 8 30 d m

1 II I
and 4 30 p.m. 

I 1 I I 
defects

1 phone: I 
I ~
Mustbe returned by March 31... Support
THIS S~ACE CONTRIBUTED BV THE ~UBLISHEA 

~ I
• . . . .. 
[.....................................................................................................~
------------------------1 
' 
Tuesday, March 23, 1982-page 7

Editorials 
El Salvador's 
whole picture 
In a three-part essay, Venezuelan Edgardo Tenreiro examines the his­tory and current events ofthe El Sal­vadoran crisis. Edgardo J. Tenreiro is a freshman from Caracas, plan­ning an economics/engineering double major. Part one portrays the social and political climate which the Duarte government inherited. 
Yes, we are concerned about El Salvador. Yes, we read in newspapers, magazines and witness through television the terrible mo­ments that this Central American country experiences. I have also had the opportunity to read articles in Latin American newspapers, espe­cially Venezuelan reports on El Sal­
vador. 

After comparing both, I have come to the conclusion that the American media, including the Notre Dame press, film and lecture series, are not presenting the complete picture of the whole situation. Con­sequently, we are not able to form an objective view of El Salvador's Civil War. 
The main responsibility in El Sal­vador's plight falls on the dictator­ships and the inflexible social, economic and political structures maintained by the conservative oligarchy throughout the history of El Salvador. This structure has stopped the growth of liberal institu­tions and has stunted social, economic and political progress. 
The constant struggle between the 
conservative oligarchy and the 
emerging institutions generated a tur­
bulence, common in many Latin 
American countries, a struggle 
which continues to confront the 
modem political parties of El Sal­vador. Also, the Marxists, supported by Cuba and Nicaragua, are the root of the guerrillas' actions. 
The dictorial regime, closely tied 
to the extreme right, generates a two fold response: one directed by the military government, and the other by para-military organizations welded into the Armed Forces. 
Democratic groups, syndicates, the Church and other institutions began to seek a democratic solution. After long discussions, a successful strike against the dictorial regime was instituted by young military offi­cials. All the groups, including those who were involved in the armed in­surrection, were called to join the new government. Under these ad­
verse conditions, a first junta and then a second junta were formed. Un­fortunately they both failed primarily . because neither the guerrillas nor the extreme right recognized either of the juntas; therefore, the violent actions of both left and right extremist groups persisted. Moreover, Social Democrats and dissident Christian Democrats joined opposition groups. 
After much turmoil and continued political chaos, a third junta was created. Napoleon Duarte, a Notre Dame-educated reformer and formal founder of the Christian Democratic Party in El Salvador, was named president. This new junta chose representatives from both the young military force and from the moderate business sectors of El Salvador and of other nations. 
Tomorrow, part two: The Ac­complishmments of Duarte. 
1J1d you K~ 
that the rwprity of Americ_aJs uxxtld violel/l1v 
op~ entenn9 
awar 1n 
E.I '5a hradar ? 
...can ~ou ~v 
t< Ofl Vef4 
-ta tladous 
~ra.1od ·? 
) 


Post Office Box Q 
Clarifying ObserverInside Column 
Phrases such as "We investigated columns are written.
Dear Editor, our coverage... we learned that 
Sincerely, I respect the position taken by Nestle's meant business about trying 
Thomas C. Kustner 

John McGrath on the Nestle's to bring The Observer over to their boycott m last week's Inside viewpoint, and they ultimately did Dear Mr. Kustner: Thursday (Observer, March 4, adopt a pro-boycott editorial stance The Inside Column reflects per­1982). I was puzzled, however, by because we were not satisfied with sonal comments from members of what was printed at the end of the Nestle's handling ... " made me won­the Observer. These views, based on column: "The views expressed in the der whether or not this column really individual perceptions ofgiven situa­Inside column are the views of the belonged on the editorial page. tions, display no connection with of­author, and do not necessarily McGrath may have meant this to ficial house editorials (the contents represent the views of The Observer be only a personal viewpoint. Seeing ofwhich are decided by majority vote or its editorial board.'' the tone of the article, however, and of the Editorial Board). Editorial 
This seemed odd as it appeared to noting that McGrath is editor-in­columnists, contracted to write me that McGrath was defending The chief of The Observer, it is difficult weekly essays, provide insightful ac­Observer's position on the issue not to distinguish his views from those of counts of a more objective nature merely as a concerned student, but as The Observer. A clarification may than those opinions contained within a member of The Observer staff. help in the future when similar the Inside Column. 
Distinguished Women Series emphasis sexist 
Dear Editor: The emphasis on the female aspect Dame is still a male-dominated of this series in its publicity and the domain into which women are 
Though my initial response to an­resulting composition of the allowed but not integrated and in nouncement of the Distinguished audiences provide a telling insight in­which women occupy a distinctly American Women Lecture Series to the true meaning of ten years of separate and likely subordinate was one of enthusiastic anticipation coeducation at Notre Dame. Here, plane. of hearing from these well-known male and female students are en­Sincerely, leaders, my initial enthusiasm has rolled in the same university, but Debbie Dudley 
been dampened by a dismaying they are not in the same world. Notre Graduate Student realization of the ironies of reality. · Look at what's happening. To commemorate the tenth an­
Art ofcommunication 
niversary of coeducation at Notre Dame, a women's lecture series with 
Dear Editor, 
exclusively women speakers was es­The line appearing later in the ar­tablished. These lectures have, as of ticle stated, "Roemer refused to
I am writing in response to the Ob­
yet, been attended by predominantly comment further." 
server March II , 1982 article
female audiences. If this is truly a What I don't understand is why
concerning "Five Pangborn Students 
celebration of coeducation, why communication is so hard between
expelled from Dorm." Actually I am 
should there not be a lecture series administration and students. 
writing in response to one paragraph
with both male and female speakers? I mean, I feel the most important
and one line:
It appears that the female orientation thing I have learned in college is the of the series has discouraged some • 'One of the expelled students said art of trying to communicate. Note otherwise interested males from there never was a chance for the word try. I am far from perfect at attending. Marina Whitman, an dialogue." He claimed, "never has communication, but at least I try. economist of outstanding academic any disciplinary action been taken Perhaps administrators should stop credentials, who offered insight into against me at this University. Today "refusing to comment'' and at least practical applications of economics I was given 48 hours to leave try to listen. After all, I am proud of in industry and government, Pangborn. No reason was given. Notre Dame and I would like to be delivered her lecture March I 0 to a What (expletive deleted) me off most proud and I t ook up to its ad­nearly all-female crowd. Where were is that the hall staff never confronted ministrators too. the male business and economics stu­any of us or warned us. Now try ex­dents who could have profited from plaining something like this to your Sincerely, her experience-tested advice? parents." Audrey Schmidt 
==Ihe_Llbseaer== Editorial Board Department Managers 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the 
Editor-tn-Cbief..............................Michael Monk Business Manager.............................Tony Aiello 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not n«essarily 
Managing Editor.......... , .....Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller.............................................Eric Schulz 
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report­
Executive News Editor.........................Kelli Flint AdvertisinG Manager.......................Chris Owen 
ed as accurately and as obj«tivdy as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of 
SMC News Editor..................... Margaret Fosmoe Production Manager.~ ................Maura Murphy 
a majority of the Editorial Board. Co.nmentaries, opinions and letters are the views 
Sports Edttor.........................~········Chris Needles Circulation Manager..........................Ray lnglin
of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and 
Editorials Editor .............................Paul MoGinn Systems Manager..........: ................ Bruce Oakley 
the free expression of varying opinions on campus, thtougb letters, ii encour3.Bed. 
Features Editor ...................................Tari Brown 
. 

Photo Editor...................................Rachel Blount 
Founded Nov~mber 3, 1966

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
I' 
~~()rts=l~)=r=~=·e~~~S======~=====================T=u=es=da=y=,M=~=c=h=23=,=t9=s2=_==P=~==es
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
Outo£48 
Entry deadlines for the spring men's, women's and grad-fac tennis tournements is March 31. Usual intramural rules of eligibility apply. Submit the entries to the NVA office (C-2 ACC) or 
NCAA final four now decided 
call239-6100.-The Observer ByThe Associated Press The Cardinals, ranked 20th, boast "That was made possible by Pat," The NVAwill sponsoran elimination soccer toune­four starters off the team that won he said "He is such an awesome ment open to the first 32 entries. Proof of insurance is needed and Will seven be a lucky number for the national championship in 1980 force inside that a team has to col­team captains will be notified about times, dates, etc. Team rosters North Carolina, still seeking its first -6-8 Wiley Brown, 6-7 Derek lapse on him. They were just open should be submitted to the NVA office by March 30. -The Observer NCAA basketball championship un­Smith, 6-7 Rodney McCray and 6-4 shots and I put them in." der Dean Smith? jerry Eaves. Louisville was only 11-7 Houston arrives in the Final Four The N~val ROTC basketball teamwas vic-Has Louisville, stocked with earlier this season, but now is 23-9. with a new hero, freshman Reid Get­torious over Nebraska ( 72-55) in the final round ofa double elimina­veterans from its 1980 champion­Sixth-ranked Georgetown, and tys, whose 10 straight free throws tion NROTC tournament held this past weekend (Marcil 20-21) at ship team, reached its peak just in particularly Ewing, were intimidat­helped the Cougars beat Boston Col­the Great Lakes Naval Training Center in Illinois. Fifteen NROTC time? ing in a 69-45 victory over No. 4 lege 99-92 in the Midwest final. units from Mid-West colleges and universities competed in te annual Can anyone stop Georgetown's 7-Oregon State in the West Regional "If I had thought about the situa­tournament. ND-NROTC was undefeated in the tournament and, in foot freshman Pat Ewing? final. The Hoyas shot 76.3 percent tion I was in, I probably would have addition to Nebraska, also defeated Ohio State (66-31), Northwes­Is Houston a legitimate conten­from the floor, best in the 44-year crumbled. All it was was a matter of tern ( 44-42) and Iowa State (57-47). The captain ofthe team is Mid­der? history ofthe NCAA tournament. taking a deep breath and shooting," shipman 1/C Dave Zatt, a senior, majoring in . aeronautical Those questions will be answered Georgetown Coach john said Gettys, who hit five one-and­
this weekend, when the Final Four Thompson called it "probably the one free throw situations after enter­Lares. Earlier this year, the ND-NROTC basketball team also won the 
engineering, and the team is coached by Chief Storekeeper Brian 
converge on New Orleans to decide best (performance) by any team I've ing the game with about eight ROTC Basketball Tournament sponsored by the Air Force ROTC 
the NCAA championship. ever coached." minutes to play. Unit at Purdue University, West Lafayette, Indiana 
North Carolina faces Houston in Eric Floyd, Georgetown's All­Prior to Sunday, Gettys had one semifinal Saturday at the Su­American guard, scored 22 points scored only 32 points in 18 games. 
perdome, while Louisville and against Oregon State, and credited Houston, 25-7, is the only un­will hold a meeting tommorrow night in the Howard Hall social 
The Fellowship of Christian Athletes 
Georgetown play in the other semi­~rformance to Ewing. ranked team in the Final Four.. space at 9 p.m. All are invited.-The Observer 
final. The winners play for the title next Monday night. The ND-SMC Sailing Clubis opening its spring 
With a 30-2 record and a 14-game 
Navratilovadefends title
winning streak, top-ranked North weekend, March 25-27. Any first-year sailors who would like to race 
season by hosting the annual Freshman Icebreaker Regatta this 
Carolina is considered the team to in this regatta should contact j.B. at 8228. Also there will be an or­
beat as it tries for its first national 
in Avon championships 
title in seven trips to the Final Four NEW YORK (AP)-Top-seeded Boston on Sunday, will open theganizational meeting tommorrow at 6:30 p.m. in the Howard Hall under Smith. Last year, the Tar Heels 
Martina Navratilova, who hasn't lost double-elimination part of the social space -all sailors interested in competing in the regatta must lost 63-50 to Indiana in the cham­a match this year, will begin the tournament at I 0 am. EST tommor­attend. Anyone interested in joining the Sailing Club is encouraged pionship game. 
After the Tar Heels stopped Vil­
to attend. -The Observer 

defense of her title at the $300,000 rrow. By the luck of the draw, she The NVA office is holding meetings for the captains of 
lanova 70-60 to win the East Avon tennis championships tom­will face Turnbull again. the following sports: Men's Baseball, today at the ACC auditorium; 
morrow when she meets Bettina Other first-day matches will pit
Regional Sunday, guard james Women's Soccer, today at the Interhall-Office; Men's Softball, tom­
Bunge, seeded sixth in this select Anne Smith against Barbara Potter morrow at the ACC auditorium; and Women's Softbal~ tommorrow 
Worthy said, "This is another year, 
eight-woman field. and Sylvia Hanika of West Germany at the Interhall Office. All of the meetings start at 4:30 p.m. -The 
another game. We're gonna have to 
The Avon Championships at against Mirna jausovec of Yugos­Madison Square Garden culminate lavia 
prepare ourselves. Last year's game 
is behind us now. This is a new thing the 11-week women's winter tennis jausovec is seeded second, 
Observer 

happening." 
tour. The singles winner receives followed, in order, by Poner, Team will hold their first practice tommorrow at 5 p.m. All 
Notre Dame's Men's Novice Crew 
Louisville, which burst Alabama­
$100,000, with the runner-up ear­Turnbull, Hanika, Bunge, Smith and novice crew members should eat dinner at 4:30 p.m. in the North 
Birmingham's bubble with a 75-68 
victory in the Mideast final, is ning 552,000. jordan. Dining H~ C-Line, and meet at the Stepan Guard House at 5 p.m. If 
Kathy jordan, who clinched the
playing ''as well as we're ever going The four doubles teams will play a there are any questions, call Mike Hawboldt at 8444 or Ed Dailey at 
eighth and final spot in the Cham­
to play," according to Coach Denny straight elimination beginning 2121. -The Observer 
Crum. pionships by beating Wendy Friday with the finals scheduled for Turnbull of Australia in the finals at Saturday. 
The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day thre>ugh Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However. classifieds to appear 1n the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day pnor to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid, 
either in person or through the mail. 

Classifieds 
WMever found  my Celtic  Cross at  The 921 Party-Sago is heading South for  MONIQUE-THANKS  FOR  THE  NICE  Uncle Billy,  ... An T ostal is coming soon ... be in car­ 
NOTICES  SMC and called m.-plea..call again. The croaa·haa grut ..ntlmental value  Break v1a Alanta, Gainesville, Orlando, and points south. We are negotiable. Call  PERSONAL BUT WHO THE ARE YOU?JACQUES 555  HE­ If your hair turns blonde while you•,. In Florida, does that mean  toons. Mail 1)name. 2)address, 3)photo via FREE campus mail to:  
for me. Eileen 4602. Reward.  233-2969 for further Information.  you·,. atlllltallan?  Stull Simon  
ANITA!!!  Mary-land the great  c/o Jeb Cash1n  
ANITA RAMKER: THE WOMAN WITH THE HEAVENLY VOICE SUNDAY, MARCH 28, AT 3 P.M. MOREAU HALL'S LITTLE THEATRE, SAINT MARY'S TYPING SERVICE. 684-4125. AITENTION SMC STUDENTS!! Applica­tions are now ava1lable at :he LeMans Student Activities Office for Student Government Commisstaners. Pick one up, fill it out and return it by Friday, March 26th. Any questiOns?? Call. Murph 4863, Elaine 51 04 or Beth 4448. Summer Jobs National Park Co's. 21 Parks, 5000 Openings. Complete in­formation $5.00. Park Report. Mission Mtn. Co., 651 2nd Ave. W.N., Kalispell, MT. 59901. Wanted: 16 men and 16 women to par­ticipate in a psychology experiment. Qualifications: no previous experience in psych experiments: must be ND/SMC student. f will pay $2.00 for tess than 1 hr of your time. The experiment IS to be held at 7:30 PM in Am 119 of Haggar Hall. Be there if you want to participate.  Lost one pair of orange Lange ski boOts at MY GIRLFRIEND needs a nde to NO this Notre Dame circle on March 12 in the af­weekend from U of I (Champaign). If you ternQOn. If found please contact Phil at know someone dnving up, please call 3779. Thanks. Mikeat4540 LOST: A Brown and Beige Jacket w1th Can you fix electric typewriters? If so, call Black and White stnpes across the chest. 284-5127. Lost at the ACC on the Tuesday before Break It was removed from the men's CAMP COUNSELORS/PROGRAM restroom across from the hockey nnk be­DIRECTORS wanted for pnvate M1ch1gan tween 12:20 and 1 :20p.m. Please return boys/girlS summer camps: swimming, because it was specially repacked with a canoe1ng. sailing, skiing, sports, nflery, material that was not allerg1c to me but archery, tenn1s. golf, crafts. camping, may be allergic to others. REWARD. Call gymnastics, calligraphy. dramatiCs, T0Mat1465. cheerleading, guitar. Laurence Seeger, 1765 Maple. Northfield, IL 60093. Send Now that the snow is gone, hopefully details. someone Will find my GOLD CHAIN. If you do please call Mark at 3895. Reward. AttentiOn 4/C MIDN: I need LANT 1 for Thanx! summer cruase-trade tor LANT 2 money, FOR RENT I ::;'· ~ -~· -~ "'"~. ............ I FOR SALE Student housing--clean, safe. $100/mo. . 291-1405.• USED BOOK SHOP. HOURS WED. Two fum1shed 5 bedroom houses near SAT. SUN. 9-7. CASPERSON 1303 NO. Available next school year and sum­BUCHANAN RD .. NILES. mer. 234-2626.  COME AND HEAR A GIRL NAMED ANITA RAMKER SUNDAY, MARCH 28, IN SAINT MARY'S UTILE THEATRE, MOREAU HALL LYONS HALL FOODSALES OFFERS THE BEST IN FRESH, THICK CRUST PazA DEUVERED ANYWHERE ON SOUTH QUAD FOR THE NOMINAL CHARGE OF .25 THURSDAY NIGHTS FROM 9:30 TO 11 AND ORDER YOURS. ALSO: EVERY WEDNESDAY NIGHT IS GUEST CELEBRITY NIGHT WITH WELL· KNOWN CAMPUS. FIGURES WORKING THE COUNTER! Want a job you can believe in? Com· mumty orgamzers needed to work 1n 25 different states w~h low income families for political and econom1c justice. Long hours, low pay. Traimng provided. Find out more--talk with ACORN Rep on March 23 (1-5 pm in VSO 1.5 LaFortune). LAST YEAR'S UMOC, MIKE "GORGAR" GURDAK, IS BACK AND UGUER THAN EVER TO DEFEND HIS TITLE. GOLDRSH AND DOMERS WITH WEAK STOMACHS -BEWAREIIII Ouastlon: WHO IS UGUER THAN MIKE "GORGAR" GURDAK ? An-: NOBODY AUVEIIIIII MIKE "GORGAR"  DEAR OLD MOM, HI YOUR LOVING SON JAMES P KEYES LOVE AND KISSES FROM JIMMY AND MARYLIN TO THE WHOLE WORLD. LOVE AND KISSES JIMMY AND MARYLIN WEEZI-· HAPPY 211 HOPE YOU PUT THOSE SHOT GLASSES AND QUAR­TERS TO GOOD USE , BUT STAY AWAY FROM THE BUCKET! WISH I COULD CELEBRATE WITH YOU BUT ILL DO MY BEST IN D.C.--4 SURE! LOVE,M.E. PmSBURGH CLUB EASTER BUS -Sign-ups THIS SUNDAY, MARCH 28 AT 8:00 P.M. In Lafortune Little Theater. SPECIAL HOUDAY FARESIIIII $38.00 ROUND TRIP and $26.00 ONE WAY. Bus leaves NO Thurs .. April 8 at 4:00 pm from the CCE. Bus returns on Mon.. Apnl 12 at 1 :00 pm from the Greyhound Term1nal 1n Downtown Pittsburgh. Payment must be made '" FULL at Sign-ups. No Refunds. Ques­tiOns? -Call Bnan Eichenlaub at 1581.  BoxQ The Observer Okay, I know I don't look tan, 1n fact one might even say 1t looks l1ke I spent most of break 1n South Bend. But really now, how could anyone accuse me of pass1ng up the sun. the s1n, and these...well all that fun stuH 1n Florida. No, I went, but rather then scar my delicate folicles 1n that harsh southern sun. I spent break in the Daytona Beach Ubrary. Why nsk uns~ght­ly peeling when I could research that paper I have due next month ... Grey Skies Ryan Hey Malan-now that you can do all those th1ngs(Remember the Kashmir tnp?)­well-do them Happy 21st Blrtbday 1 Malan, HAPPY 21"ST BIRTHDAY Tai LOVE, YLTBS Chamber Losers Some trip. I need a break now. Thanks for the ..Special.. t1me Hope we can do rt aga1n -out west! Ms. Des1gner AITENTION PE WOMEN!!! Vote for the  
LOST/FOUND Lost: dark blue scarf probably lost in LIFE Science Bldg: d found call 5574 ask for Sam or leave message. LOST: AN '83 CLASS RING (BLUE SPINEL. QP) IF FOUND, PLEASE RETURN TO GILDA. (8098) REWARD: LOST GOLD NECKLACE WITH CROSS AT CAMPUS vtEW POOL SENTIMENTAL VALUE. Please call 283-6954 Lost: brown wallet, probably on tenth floor of library. I need ~ back before break. $REWARD$ Call Greg 3116. LOST: GOLD CELTIC (IRISH) CROSS AT SMC. Pie._ call 4602 (SMC). U.. has not liMn the -without 11. Rewm'll\  82-83 school yr. 4 bdrm.,close to campus,fum.,excel.cond.,call 287-5361 after6p.m. Avail.immed., 4 bdrm.,close to campus,excel.cond., call 287·5361 after 6p.m. BE YOUR OWN BOSS Comfortable 5 bedroom, completely furnished house for 5 or 6. Close to campus. PH 288-3942. Large,one bedroom, remodeled, parking $185 $6 electric, NW, near bus and stores. No lease. $150 deposit. 289-1687 3-4 bedroom home, fum1shed, 3 blocks off campus. This summer and/or fall. Graduate students preferred. Call Mr. Noe, 287-9636, days. ....................................................., [WANTED TYPING 28 years as a streretary-­excellent typist. retired. $1.00/page call Phyllis 259-2501 .  SURPLUS JEEPS $65, CARS $89, TRUCK $100. Similar bargains available. Call for your directory on how to pur­chase. 602-998-0575 Ext. 3648. Call refundable. YOU DESERVE THE BEST...Jafra Con­sunant: Penny Penrod 291-8310 M-F 1974 TRIUMPH TR6 YELLOW, BAN INT. EXCELLENT COND, $3900 277·5674 BTWN5-7PM TICKETS Need extra tickets for graduat1on. Call Mark at 3008. Need 6 tix for graduation cererrt.:my Bert 1484 PERSONALS  GURDAK FOR UMOCIIIIIIIIIII An Tostal's "Stuff Simon· (update) I've gotten f1ve letters so far! (Thanks D1ana, Shultsy. John, Yoko, and Col­leen!!!) Be in the cartoons by send1ng 1 )name. 2)photo, and 2)address to: "Stuff Simon" ·aoxa TheObsarver KATHE B Have a gr~at birthd~;· e~en though it 1s the first day of classes love ya -the other room1es...Kand1 Kandi and Kand1/ Happy Birthday SteveR. S. (you little Giblin Gobbler) Ann and Julie, Welcome back! You both look better than ever. S&J TO THE SUPREMES, DEBBER, LAURIE, TRICIA. HAPPY TWENTY­ONEII  Also ELECTIONS A meeting w1ll follow sign-ups for those interested in running for next years officers. Mother, rts been a long year but 1t can only get eas1er... Jm1ss him, too. Love, Mary Agnes TODAY IS CARRIE BAKER'S birthday, and she is finally a WOMAN! Let her prove rt to you/ Call 8118 to make an ap­pointment! Hurry before she gets too old! It starts al,.ady . T omght at m1dmght on WSND-FM listen to The Top 40 Time Tunnel, a spec1al presentation of the late­mght rock-Jazz show Nocturne Nightftight. Host Tim Neely will count down the top 40 records from the year 1981 (yes. last year). They 1nclude some of the worst songs of the rock era, and maybeoneortwoofthe best .but listen anyway. and relive the songs you loved to hate from 19811  team that comb1nes experience w1th en­thusiasm!!! Vote CAROL CAMP--­PRESIDENT RALONDA MASON---VP on FRIDAY, MARCH 26!!!1 To all you BSB lana: Mackin High Ia going to win. Odds: IHI to 1 "Beaux Arts goes to the Louvre· Saturday 27 .. featun t ng the Tarantulas! Don't know what the Louvre IS all about? F1nd out 1n the Archrtecture Library -boOks on 1t are on the reserve. See you Saturday. .. ................ .. The Beaux Arts Ball (for those of you un­familiar with the aHair) 1s the semesterly costume ball put on by the students of the Architecture department opened to the entire campus of Notre Dame. If you en­joy... crazy costumes, d1mented danc~ng and general kool<~ness make an ap­pearance at the longest runmng party trad1t1on. See an ark1e 1n liS natural hab1tat The theme for th1s semester IS .. Beaux Arts goes to the Louvre . so come as anyth1ng from a museum (even 1f 1ts 1n the Chicago Art Institute or the Toledo Tuxedo ExhibitiOn). Th1s Satur­day. f...  

I 
~ 
L 

The Observer -Sports Tuesday, March 2 3, 1982 -page 9 
Golfers finish sixth at Floridatournament 
-

Bradleyadvancesover Oklahomain NIT action 
University of. Alabama-Birmingh'!m guard eventually won 75-68. The Cardinals now face jonath Nichols (14) puts some vicious body Georgetoum in the tournament semifinal game english on his shot during their NCAA Midwest in New Orleans. (APPhoto) Regional final game against Louisr,ille, who 
NEW YORK ( AP) -Mitchell An­derson scored 10 ofhb 2S points in the first HI minute~ of the second half as Bradley pulled away, from Ok­lahoma for a 8-f-68 victory in the 
semifinal round of the 4Sth annual National Invitation Tournament last 
ni~hl. 

In the second 1oemilinal game at Madison Square Gard.:n. Georgia of the Southeastern Conference met Purdue of the Hi~ Ten. 
Ander1oon, the th1rd leading scorer in Missouri Vallt:'y Conference his­tory behind Oscar Robertson and Larry Bird, led Bradley on a 27·9 run at the start of the second half that lllrnt:d a 3M·37 halftime lead into an in~urmountable 65-46 margin. 
Bradley, 2'i-l0, which was in­
censed at not making the NCAA 
championship tournament after 
winning the MVC in the regular 
season. is makmg its I 4th NIT ap­
pearance and is gunning for its fifth 
title. 

While Bradley was running away 
from Oklahoma, 22-11, in the first 
BosTON UNiVERSiTy 
Washington Legislative Internship Program College of Liberal Arts-Room 302 725 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston, MA 02215 617/353-2408 
10 minutes of the second half, the Braves held the Sooners' Chuck Bar­nett without a point after he had scored 23 points in the first hal( Bar­nett finished with 31 and Ok­lahoma's second leading scorer, L.es Pace, got only nine. 
Barney Mines had 18 points, Donald Reese had 13 and Willie Scott 12 for Bradley, which went altead by as many as 22 late in tht• second half 
Bradley took a 14-4 lead with 14:3M to go in the first half before Barnett, a junior guard who had 10 of Oklahoma's 1.~ field goals in the first half. cut the gap to 23-20 by hit­ting the next seven baskets for the Sooners. A 9-1 run by Bradley gave the Braves their largest lead, 32-21, with 6:57 left. 
But with senior Bradley starters David Thirdkill and Reese on the bench with three fouls, Oklal10ma outscored the Braves 16-6 to cut the deficit to 38·37 at halftime. Eight of the 16 poims were free throws. 
Juniors and Seniors with 

terested in Congress? Earn 16 credits on Capitol HilL 
•Unique 
Internships based on your interests. Work with members of Congress in their offices and on their committees. 

•Seminars 
with leading government experts, focusing on current policy issues. 

•Washinqton 
Faculty headed by the chairman of the Congressional Intern Advisory CounciL 

•Discussion 
Groups to share information and opinions with fellow student participants from around the couptry. 


Filing deadline for Semester 1: April 9. For applications and information: 
.....
Cross hero 

Boilennakers edge Bulldogs by 1 
NEW YORK (AP) -Russell Cross, who scored 25 points, hit a shot under the basket with four seconds left to give Purdue a 61-60 basketball victory over Georgia last night in the semifinals of the 45th NatioAallnvitation Tournament. 
Purdue will meet Bradley in the championship game tommorrow night at Madison Square Garden. 
Keith Edmonson also scored 25 points for the Boilermakers, 18-13, as the senior guard and Cross, a 6­foot-1 0 sophomore center, scored all but I 1 of Purdue's points. 
Purdue never led until Cross' bas· 1-:!ISSI•BSIIaiSSISIB'IISSI•B:a••a••••••••• 
ket with 7:32 left gave the Boiler­makers a 48-47 edge. There were five lead changes and two ties until Cross' winning basket, which came after an assist by Dan Talombizio. 
Georgia, 19-12, called two 
a 3.0 average: in­

timeouts after Cross' basket but never got a shot off that could have won the game. The Bulldogs, who got 20 points from Eric Marbury and 15 from injury-plagued star Dominique Wilkins, might have won if they had better luck from the free throw line in the second half, when they hit only 8-of-16 shots. 
Marbury, however, had hit two free throws with 46 seconds to go to give Georgia a 60-59 edge. Purdue then held the ball until Cross' climactic basket. 
Just clip Lhe coupon and call for an appolntmenl today. We bave a beautif.ul new loc waiUng for you. 
PHONE 234-6767 

·-·............ Mon. 8:30-5:00-Tues. & Wed. 8:30-5:30 Thurs. 8:30-8::ID-Sat. 8:00-4:00 

Georgia led by as many as nine points in the first hal~ taking a 2M-19 advantage wth 4:49 left on a basket by Marbury. But Purdue outscored the Bulldogs M-2 the rest of tht· period on four points apiece by Ed­
_monson and Cross, who finished with 12 :tnd 11 first-half points, respectively. 
Marbury had 14 points in the first 20 minutes for Georgia. while Wilkins played only nine minutes because of an ankle injury, but played the entire second half. 
ByJACK RYAN 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame golf team en_loyed Its spring break, finishing sixth out of a field of 21 in the Florida International Sunshine Golf Tournament in Miami, Florida 
The team had a stroke total of 1,264. They were led by sopho­mores Dave Pangraze and Frank Lcyes, who tied for I7th place, out of 126 players, with a score of 316. Senior Bob Horak shot 319, good for 23rd place. 
"It was an outstanding team per· formance for this time ofyear," said Head Coach Nod O'Sullivan, noting that only Florida schools finished 
ahead of the Irish. Florida lqterna­
tional University won the tourna­ment with a score of 1,201, fQilowed by Miami, Tampa, Florida Atlantic, and Jacksonville University. Even though the Irish golfers had no out­door practice before the tourna­ment, they managed to finish ahead ofthree Florida schools. 
looking ahead, O'Sullivan said, "The season looks very promising. We were 25 strokes better than last year at the same tournament." 

The team's next match is March <' 31 against Valparaiso at the Burke Memorial GolfCourse. 
:\-....__ y'i \~ 

The Observer -Sports Tuesday, March 23, 1982-page 10 

North Carolina's jimmy Black, left, puts pressure on Alabama's Ennis Whatley (3) during Friday's NCAA East Regional Semifinal game. The Tar Heels· won 74-69, and face Houston in the tourna­mentsemifinals at the New Orleans Superdome. ( AP Photo) 
Women's tennis 
Irish get burned on Southern trip 
ByJANE HEALEY 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis 
team returned home late Sunday 
night from Louisiana drained and ex­
hausted The optimism and excite­
ment which they departed with was 
not present. The Irish were coming 
home with a 0-6 record for their 
spring trip and the start of their 
spring season. 
The first three scheduled matches were close contests. Cenetary Col­lege handed the Irish their first loss with a score of 5-4. At third singles, sophomore Pam Fischette high­lighted the action for Notre Dame battling a three set match against a girl Coach Sharon Petro called "the best tennis player Cenetary had." According to Petro, Fischette's op­ponent could easily have been playing first singles and was obvious­ly playing beneath her abilities. 
Louisiana Tech and Northwestern State were the Irish's second and third oponents with both matches being played on the same day. The Louisiana Tech score was 6-3 in favor of Louisiana during the morn­ing and in the afternoon Northwes­tern State defeated the Irish 5-4. 
The second half of the trip was worse than the first part. Tulane, New Mexico State, and LSU all pounded on Notre Dame with final scores of7-2, 8-1, and 8-1 respectful­ly. Although Petro does not want to 
AcCounting Majors 
Master of Accountancy (MAce) School of Accountancy DePaul University 
Five-Year Programs 
The official policy of both the AICPA and the National Association of State Boards of Accountancy and a recommendation from the AAA call for five years of collegiate education to enter the accounting profession. Many large accounting firms are also showing considerable interest in five-year degree programs. /1s accounting continues to grow in importance and complexity, the five-year minimum becomes even more important for professional preparation and successful career development. 
MAce Degree 

Applications are now being accepted for fall onlyadmissiontothe DePaul University School of Accountancy (MAce) degree. The program is a fifth year of advanced studies in accounting. ouditing, financial planning and control, policy formulation, communications and management in an accounting environment and selected graduate business electives. Enrollment is limited to grak!uates of recognized four-year accounting programs; admission Is through the Graduate School of Business of DePaul University. 
r------------------------1 
Please send me your MAce brochure and application forms 
and information from the Graduate School of Business: 
Name__________________________________________________ _ 
Addre$ __________________________________________________ 
City__________State ____:_____Zip_______ 
Phone _________________________________________________ 
College _______________________ 
Degree______________________________~---Year_________ 
Mail To: School of Accountancy DePaul University 25 East Jackson Boulevard Chicago, Illinois 60604 
------------------------~ 
¢iDePaulUniversity 
DePaul University i~ an equal opportunity educator/employer 

make excuses for the losses, all things must be considered. It was the first time Notre Dame had played outside since October. The Irish, unlike their southern challen­gers had difficulty dealing with the sun and the heat. 
The Irish were also competing without the talents of senior co­captain Usa Stephan. Stephan travelled with the team in hopes of playing, but tendonitis in her wrist prevented her from doing so. 
Freshman Usa I..aFratta at first singles was also injured while on the trip. After her match against Northwestern State, I..afratta was plagued with severe muscle cramps and soreness in her legs. The pain became so bad that she was forced to default two days later against New Mexico State. Petro commented that I..afratta was never able to play to 100percent due to her legs. 
Amidst all these negative ele­ments, there are always a few bright spots. Freshman J..aura Lee from Agoura, California ended the trip with an individual winning record. Lee in the fifth singles spot was 4-2. Previously mentioned Fischette was able to break even at 3-3. She also teamed up with Usa Gleason at second doubles for another 3-3 
score. 
Petro admits that she is disap­pointed. Yet, she comments, "The trip was not a total failure. We can learn from our mistakes in order to help our spring season." 
Cautiosuly, Petro goes on to say, "The trip was a learning experience so it was okay. And yet, ifwe actually don't learn from it and keep losing, then it was a waste oftime." 
Notre Dame's next chance to redeem themselves will be against Illinois and Western Illinois in Macomb, Illinois tlli.s Saturday. As Petro puts it, "Only time will tell." 
...Fencing 

continuedfrom page 12 
Although Janis placed 18th in the 
sabre competition, only four fencers 
who finished above him will be 
returning to collegiate competition 
next season. 
The highlight of the champion­ships for Notre Dame was undoubt­edly epee captain Rich Daly, who finished in sixth place and earned all-America honors. Daly, seeded sixth in the finals, posted a 14-1 record in the first day of finals com­petition, then lost to the five fencers seeded above him and beat the three below on the last day of the cham­pionships. Such was the rule of the epee event, as the top six seeds finished in the first six places in the epee finals. 
"Rich fenced as well as he could -he really gave his all," remarked DeCicco. "He beat the fencers he was supposed to beat, and lost to people who really were better than he was. I am really pleased that all of his hard work is paying off for him. 
"Rich is a real scrapper," DeCicco continued "IfI were in a dark alley, I would definitely want Rich on my side. 
Daly's sixth place finish improved on the 12th he earned in last year's event. 
Wayne State led the final team scoring with 85 points, while Clem­son was second at 77 followed by Penn (74), Columbia (73), Harvard 
(68) and Princeton (68) Notre Dame finished seventh with 66 points. -the finals will probably beat those lower seeds, so a loss there really hurts. 
"Of course, in both Mike's and Marc's cases, It was their first NCAA championship, and I am sure there was a certain amount of awe in­volved. Maybe it just caught up with Mike a day earlier." 
Janis recovered on Thursday to post a 4-4 record against the top­seeded sabre men, including a 5-3 decision over eventual runner-up John Friedberg ofNorth Carolina 
"Most of the entrants in sabre were seniors," said DeCicco. "Considering their experience, I think Mike fenced fairly well. I am confident that if Mike advances to the NCAAs again in the next three years, he will be a real contender. 

• 
··In my job a11be Firs! !'ialional Bank of Chicago. Iam constantly using the knowledge acquired through m1· parale~al training at Roosel'elt.·· 
. 
-Arr11 BnU Estales. Wills and ltusL' G~.ulua1~ 

. 
LAWYER'S ASSISTANT: 
AGROWTH CAREER 
FOR THE SO's 
Training as a Lawyer's Assistant can give t<xlay's college graduate a valuable edge in the job market. Entry-level positions in the Chicago area pay as much as 
51.2.000 to Sl5.00(l-and some paralegals are now earning 
as much as S3.2.000. It takes just three months of davtime studv (six months in the evening) to prepare for a career as a LawVer's Assistant. The program at Roosevelt University is the largest A.B.A.·approved program in Illinois. and its record of graduate emplovment assistance is the best there is. 
FOR INFORMATION AND A FREE BROCHURE CALL(312)341-3882 OR MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY! 
ARECRUITER WILL BE ON CAMPUS APRIL 7, 1982. 
ROOSEVELT UNIVERSin' Lawyer's Assistant Program 430 S. Michigan Ave.. Chicago. Ill. 60605 -~ 
In (.'(>Operation with The ~auonal Center for Paralepl Trainmg 
•

Please send me acopy of the Roosevelt l.awyer"s Assistant Program catalog. Iam interested in the D Chicago or DArlington Heights location. 
!'-4ame 
Addres!'! 
~tate: z 

Home Phone Hu!!.ines..' Phone.: 
Approved for V.A. and Ill. State Gu-.u-anteed Loans 
Roosevell UniversitY admits all students on the hasis of indh·idual merit and without reMi'l"d [()race. color. sex or age. 

------~-­
'· 


~~4()[~~-~==============================T=u=e=sd=a=y='=M=M=c=h=2=3='=1=9=8=2===p=ag=e=l=l
Molarity 
Ffl. 
,r COIJC.RAWl-tr"£ YOU oJJ YIJUR, Hlo.AJPUAJ4 OF/Jif£ SJTUAnoJJ /AJ PAAJE,btJPJ,J WITH THD.s£ 


Doonesbury 


Simon 



The Daily Crossword 
©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 3/23/82 All Rights Reserved 
Michael Molinelli 


yOU'RE RI6HT...1ti-'T~ 
AN Al'rlTU06 PROBLEM /F :I eVER. /tEI1RD OF o,<JEII/ 



ACROSS 34 Carpentry DOWN 31 Cral/l(l 1 "-onMy item 1 Small 35 English Hands" 38 Field Inserts river 5 Country 39 Penetrate 2 "-by the 36 Opinion 
In Asia 40 Adjutant papers" 37 Fasting 
9 Rams 41 Loch-3 Black bird period 13 Cruising 42 Unreliable 4 Aerie 39 Hawk's 14 Vendition person 5 Outcome relative 15 Museof 43 Enchantress 6 Engrossed 43 Congame 
poetry 44 Rails 7-Baba 45 Stair 17 Floating 46 Wedge 8 Sparks or parts mass of ice 47 Varnish Beatty 47 Tibetan 
18 Where the component 9 Breweror monk fly was 50 Arrow Wright 48 "-of invited polson 10 Majoror golden 
20 Betrayal 51 Dance step Minor daHodils" 
22 Certain 52 "-Is Not 11 Hocks 49 Certain pitched a Home" 12 Brew auto horseshoe 54 Tasted 16 Work:Sp. 51 Outmoded 
23 Before 58 Rodent 19 Click 53 Put Into 24 Netherlands lures beetle action 
river 61 Topnotch 21 Western 54 Quarrel 26 Health -62 Turkish state: abbr. 55 Diving bird resort money 24 Boner 56 Cltyln 27 Ordinary 63 Sad cry 25 Fall Oklahoma 
writing 64 Metal flowers 57 Lairs 30 Views money 27 Blueprint 59 "Twelfth 32 Old Chinese 65 Spreads 28 Pilaf base-Street-" weight cut grass 29 Propellers 60 lnthe 33 Punta 66 E~trance 30 Cltyof manner of 
del-67 Remnants gondolas 
Campus 
•3:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Time Dependent Deformation and Failure Behavior of Composite Materials", Professor Richard A. Schapery, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall, Sponsored by Aerospace­Mechanical Engineering Department 

•4:30 
p.m. -Seminar, "Molecular Mimicry in Biological Adaptation", Dr. Raymond Damian, Uni­versity of Georgia, Athens, Galvin Life Science Auditorium, Sponsored by Biology Department 

•5:30 
p.m. -Workshop, Stress Management, Conselling Center, 4th floor, Administration Bldg., Free, call 239-5484 

•7, 
9, II p.m.-Movie, "Kentucky Fried Movie", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Judo Club, S I admission 

•s 
p.m. -Lecture, "Major Characteristics and Themes", Professor Warren Samuels, Michigan State University, 122 Hayes Healy, Sponsored by Economics Department 

•s 
p.m. -Lecture, "Towards Photography: Paint· ing in the 1830's", Robert Rosenblum, New York University, Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum ofArt, Sponsored by Art Department 

•s 
p.m. -Lecture, Clergy in American Life, Mar­tin E. Marty, University of Chicago, Century Cen-· ter, Sponsored by Professions in American History Series 

•8:15 
p.m. -Concert, ND Concert Band, Spring Concert, ACC 



~ T.V. Tonight 
7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10:00p.m. 
ll:OOp.m. 
11:30p.m. 
12:00a.m. 12:30p.m. 
16 MASH 22 CBS News 28 joker's Wild 34 The: MacNc:II·Lc:hrc:r Rc:pon 16 The: Muppc:t Show 22 Family Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 16 Bret Maverick 22 Q.E.D. 28 Happy Days 34 Life on Earth 28 joanic: Loves Chachi 
16 Flamingo Road 22 CBS Special: "Oliver Twist'' 28 Three's Company 34 American Playhouse 28 Too Close For Comfon 16 Barbara Mandrell Show 22 Shannon 28 Han to Han 16 Nc:wsCc:ntc:r 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 The: Dick Cavett Show 16 Tonight Show 22 Alice-McCloud 28 ABC News Nlghtllnc: 28 Fantasy Island 16 Late: Night With David Letterman 





Notre Dame goalie Dave Laurlon does a "butterfly" in the net for a save, but the Irish dreams of an NCAA bid flew away as the Irish 
No NCAAbid 

leers finish second, endseason 
By MICHAEL WILKINS Falcons a 3-1 advantage. Bowling Michigan State exploded for four Sports Writer Green outshot Notre Dame 15-8 in goals in the opening stanza, two of the period. them on the power play, to put the 
The Notre Dame hockey team But the Irish erupted for five goals game out of reach early. Though captured second place at the Central in the second period to take the lead Rothstein did manage to score in the Collegiate Hockey Association away from Bowling Green. Jeff second period, four goals was just Tournament March 13 and 14, but Logan started the scoring with a too big a lead for the Irish to fight was not selected as one of the two power play goal just 1:55 into the back from. teams that represented the CCHA at period when he tipped in a point Michigan State dominated the the regional tournament last shot from defenseman Jim Brown. play early, but the game was very 
. weekend. After the Falcons went ahead 4-2, co­evenly played after the first period. 
,_.. The Irish finished in second place captain Dave Poulin brought the After being outshot 22-4 in the first after defeating the Bowling Green Irish within one by tipping Sean period, the Irish came back to contol Falcons, 8-5, in the semi-finals Regan's shot past goaltender David. the second period, but managed to before falling 4-1 to Michigan State Notre Dame's fourth line got its come away with only one tally. The 
Tuesday, March 23, 1982-page 12 
Disappointed fencers take seventh place 
By BILL MARQUARD Junior Marc DeJong, fencing in his Sports Writer first NCAA championship event, was seeded first among the tournament's Disappointing. Unfortunate. 24 foil finalists heading into Wed­Frustrating. nesday's first round of final bouts. 
Call it what you want, but the The Pretoria, South Africa, native Notre Dame men's fencing team disposed of 11 of his 15 opponents knows how it feels. that day. 
Considered one ofthe favorites in But on the final day of the cham­this year's NCAA Men's Fencing pionships, Dejong stuggled to a 1-7 Championships and enjoying a mark, managing a 5-1 decision over second-place tie for the team title Princeton's Paul Schimdt, the even­going into Thursday's final round of tual fourth-place finisher. Dejong competition, the Irish stumbled to a finished 13th overall. seventh-place finish in the event, "Ifthere is anyone I feel sorry for, which was held last week at the it is Marc Dejong," offered DeCicco. ACC. "After fencing so well in the prelimi­
"We are a heck ofa lot better than nary round and being seeded first in 
a seventh place team," asserted Irish the finals, he really began to believe 
coach Mike DeCicco. "We qualified that winning a gold medal was a dis­
all three ofour fencers for the finals, tinct possibility. His performance 
and each one was seeded in the top Wednesday reinforced that idea, 
six in their weapon." too. 
"We were certainly not fencing "But Thursday was just a disaster. 
out ofour league." The bouts on the final day were 
Following Tuesday's preliminary against the other eight top seeds, qualifying round and Wednesday's and those are bouts you can't afford first round ofthe finals, the Irish had to lose. It was really unfortunate." a soiid hold on second place wth 60 Freshman Mike Janis surprised a points. Wayne State, the eventual lot of people in the preliminary team titlist, led at that point wth 69 sabre bouts. Qualifying in the same 
points, while Clemson was tied with pool as second-seeded Kevin Mac­the Irish in second. Penn was a close Donald from Yale, Janis lost his first third with 59 points, followed by preliminary--bout before winning Columbia, Harvard and Penn State in eight in a row to earn the third place a three-way tie at 54 points. seed heading into the finals. 
But by the time the dust had But Janis had an loffday in the first settled on Thursday, all six of those round of the finals, dipping to a 5-10 teams, with the exception of Penn record and losing to the bottom State, were ahead of Notre Dame on three finalists. the final scoreboard. "You can't afford to give away 
Why? bouts like that," DeCicco said. "You 
"That's the same question I've know that the other top fencers in been asking myself," DeCicco agreed." T We just fenced poorly at See FENCING, page 10 crucial times." 

in the championship game. first oftwo goals of the period when Spartans played a very defensive Dan Collard stole a pass at the Irish third period, keeping Notre Dame blue line, skated down ice: and away from the Spartan goal as much 
NCAA decides USC
blasted a shot on the Falcon goal. as possible and ensuring the cham­David stopped the drive, but Adam pionship ofthe CCHA Tournament. Parsons banged in the rebound. Both games saw the Irish make a Notre Dame took the lead for good terrible effort in the opening stanza. when Mark Doman knocked Col­··we just weren't loose in the locker lard's rebound into the net. Poulin room like we normally are," Smith ended the second period scoring for commented after the games. "I think the Irish, when his shot went off the maybe we just wanted it too badly." skate of a Bowling Green deffen­Though Notre Dame finished seman and slid into the Falcon goal. second in the tourney, the Irish 
Bowling Green desperately tried were passed over in the bidding for a to salvage the game, but the Irish NCAA Regional Tournament posi­provided a stiff defense, combined tion. Mi t chigan State was guaranteed with some expert backchecking, to a bid by winning the CCHA tourna­
Question: How many USC football players does it take to screw 
preserve the victory. Brown gave ment but the second bid from the 
in a light bulb? 
Notre Dame a 7-4 lead on a slapshot CCHA went to consolation winner 
Answer: One, butfive get creditfor it. 
that handcufffed David. The Falcons Bowling Green. 
The joke is an old one by now, but it's bound to be resurrected in didn't give up though, as McPhee The Falcons were given the bid 
the light ofa report appearing in Sunday's editions oftheLos Angeles and Hills again worked together for even though they were defeated by 
Times. 
another goal. Bill Rothstein iced the the Irish during the tournament and But nobody is laughing in Southern California. 
game for the Irish when he scored twice out of three times during the After being penalized by the Pacific 10 Conference in 1980 for 
into an empty net to give Notre year. The two teams records were various violations, including players receiving credit for classes they
Dame an 8-5. upset ofthe top-seeded comparable, though Bowling Green didn't take and also the illegal scalping ofsome players' complimen­
Falcons. did own a slightly better record that 
tary football tickets, many thought that the issue finally would be laid The Irish fourth line of Collard, Notre Dame. Irish fans were very 
to rest. Doman and Parsons proved to be un­disappointed to learn of the ques­
Not by a long shot. expected heroes in the victory. "I've tionnable decision to give the final 
According to the Times article, the NCAA will, within a week, been using them basically as a bid to the Falcons. 
place the University of Southern California's football program on 
In Saturday's game against checking line, but they've come up The Irish, as a result, ended their probation for three years, with a two-year ban on bowl and national Bowling Green, the Irish got on the with some really big goals in the last season at 23-15-2. 
television appearances. 
board first as Kirt Bjork connected three or four weeks, " said Irish "There had been a hearing about a month ago," commented USC on a three-on-two break for the Irish Coach Lefty Smith after the upset. 
Sports Information Director Jim Perry. "We got the letter (of con­
by slapping Rex Bellomy's rebound "They really came through for us firmation) about a week ago. Sometime this week, the school will past sprawling Falcon goalie Mike today." 
INSIDE: 
decide what its response will be." 
David. Though the icers continued Collard, whose aggressive style of A spokesman for Head Coach John Robinson, however, told The 
to pressure the Bowling Green goal, play made him a valuable asset as a Observer yesterday that "there is speculation, but there is no official 
the Falcons tied the game at two defensive forward, was not 
Women~ tennis, 
knowledge ofany letter from the NCAA." She added that as soon as a 
when sophomore Tim Hack stuffed surprised with the line's letter is received, there will be an official statement released. 
the puck past Irish goaltender Dave perfromance. "We don't see our­USC reportedly has until this Monday, March 29, to appeal the
--pg.lO

Lauri on. selves as second rate at all," he NCAA's ruling. 
The Falcon's high scoring line of noted. "Adam (Parsons) gives the 
The alleged probationary action no doubt will have a profoundGeorge McPhee, Brian Hills and line more ofan offensive feeling and 
effect on the Notre Dame-USC series, which has evolved into one of
NITaction,
Peter Wilson put Bowling Green up we just played with the confidence college football's premier rivalries over the years.
by two before the first period ended. we needed in the second period." 
Notre Dame Athletic Director Gene Corrigan decided not to com­
McPhee ended a well-played power In Sunday's championship game, 
·--pg.9 

ment on the situation when contacted yesterday, preferring rather 
play by tipping a pass under Laurion Notre Dame again was hurt by slop­to wait "until something concrete is known." 
to make the score 2-1. Hills skated in py play in the first period, but this USC athletic officials are expected to release the exact allegations
all alone to beat Laurion with just 36 time the damage was too great for 
·Golf -..pg.9 
and their subsequent decision in a statement later this week. 
seconds left in the period to give th t e the team to mount a comeback. 
Stay tuned. 







