----~~~ 
, . , Income tax -page 5 

VOL. XVI, NO. l.U !Ill' indq)l'ndt·nl ~llldl'lll lll'w~papl'r st-rving no!rt: Jamt: and sainl mary·~ TllESDAY, APRIL 20, 1982 
Former diplomat discusses career 
By VIC SCIUW of important events and having Wilkowski, who has served 
under eight presidents and 12
News Editor a feeling of contribuing to them 
secretaries of state commented
-draws many people to foreign 
on her relationship with former 
Jean Wilkowski, former U.S. service. 
Secretary of State Kissinger.
ambassador to Zambia and the ''For a Foreign Service 
''There were pains to keep out
Unjted Nations spoke about her Officer," said Wilkowski, 
ofhis character and to maintain
diplomatic career in her lecture, "becoming an ambassador has 
your own," she said. "Maybe
"Foreign Affairs: for Diplomats absolutely nothing to do with 
that is why our relationship
Only?'' last evening in the how well he or she knows the 
never achieved the degree of
Memorial Library Lounge. President. But it has everything 
mutual admiration it might
Wilkowski was the sixth to do ... in the case of political have.''
speaker in Notre Dame's persons and Presidential 
Personal dedication to peace
''Distinguished American campaign supporters ... Ciare 
and justice is the most highly
Women Lecture Series,'' Booth Luce and Ann 
desired qualification for a
celebrating 10 years of coed­Armstrong, who were 
diplomat, according to
ucation at the University. appointed as Ambassadors to 
Wilkowski. Patience, strength,
Wilkowski could not easily Italy and London, respectively, 
endurance and the ability to see · 
define the function of an am­make the point.'' 
both sides of a dispute, though 
bassador. ''Ambassadors are Wilkowski's first adventures 
not always exhibited, are other
the personal representatives of into multilateral diplomacy was essential qualities. 
the president of their country on an assignment to Geneva, 
Wilkowski concluded her
and they must act the part," Switzerland, in the 60's. There 
lecture with a discussion on the
she said. "Ambassadors are she was part of the U.S. team 
importance of a liberal arts
also supposed to turn in a negotiating with the European 
education. "Without
reasonably good job of reaking community for membership in 
knowledge and· understanding
lines the international institution 
of international affairs and
Wilkowski could not easily GATI, the General Agreement 
some language proficiency, I do 
define the function of an am­on Tariffs and Trades. The 
not believe that any college
bassador. "Ambassadors are assignment made Wilkowski 
graduate can claim a truly
the personal representatives of keenly aware of the enormous 
liberal college education. Nor
the president of their country complexity offinding consensus 
do l believe that he or she can
and they must act the part,'' on economic issues among SO to 
function in a personally
she said. "Ambasssadors are 100 countries. 
satisfying way in the kind of
also supposed to turn in a 
world we have today. Our
reasonably good job of reading Wilkowski's most important 
country needs college
lines -lines of instruction that work in Zambia involved efforts 
graduates who Lao play a 
are sent out by their to make U.S. foreign p<:>licy in 
leadership role as informal and 
governments to guide them in South Africa "more realistic articulate citizens.'' 
dealing with other nations, and less rhetorical" in support sometimes in such lofty of majority rule. "Specifically, I matters as war and peace, but sought Washington's more often in rather mundane authorization to permit U.S. Salvador trip matters.'' , ambassadors in the area to have 
There are a number of direct contact and dialogue with qualities which attract people to the heads of the liberatin 
Hesburgh 's story continues 
foreign service. Patriotism and movements who were clearly the romance of travel are destined to become the future 
and He heard my voice." Then but if the number is left on the
Editor's note: The following
among these attractive presidents of their countries. 
is the second of a five part the reading was from the ballot, then the ballot is notqualities, though Wilkowski These and other recommend• 
stressed that the former comes ations from embassies were to series of edited excerpts taken Prophet) eremiah (11: 18-20) "I really secret. Somehow you from the diary of University for my part was like a trustful have to accommodate both
"in and out of fashion." find their way into a refocused 
President Theodore Hesburgh lamb being led to the slaughter­values, so we suggested that
The former ambassador U.s. foreign policy which 
dun'ng his recent tn'p to E1 house, not knowing the the person either detach the
believes that the stimulation Secretary Kissinger announced foreign affairs provide for the during his first trip to Africa in Salvador as part of the United schemes they were plotting number and burn it or detach 
the number and drop it in the
States official observer team for against me. 'Let us destroy theindividual -being in the center 1976." 
theSalvadoran elections. tree and its strength, let us cut urn with the ballot so there is no him off from the land of the connection between the ballot living, so that his name may be and the number in the registra­
Up again with the first light quickly forgotten.''' At least it tion. In any event, all of the

Senate continues 
shortly after six. I thought I was dido' t end on this note, for the political parties are meeting back in Cambodia because final words were "I have this morning to try to unsort there was no hot water for the committed my cause to you." I this little snafu that came up at 
shower, but checking later, am beginning to believe that the last moment. found that everyone else had it. few days of this is better than a At eight o'clock, we were Rolando Duarte called about retreat. I saw Bayard Rustin, a over in the Camino Real Hotel 

By DAN KOPP mentioned that he has almost 6: 1S. He is the brother of the former trustee who is an where all of the media were Staff reporter completed his interviews with President and was at our unofficial observer here with a staying. I never saw such a the rectors of the women's alumni meeting in Panama last group from Freedom House. large news conference since the dorms regarding the social life July. He said he would try to We had our first meeting of the old Civil Rights days. Every­Student Body President Bob at Notre Dame. He reported come over for Mass, but never day at 7:1 S in the dining room. body and his Uncle George was Yonchak siad that he will that they did not think most got here. I assume he couldn't Bustamante had gone right there and, of course, everyone request a larger student ticket Notre Dame women would be get through the cordon around home from our meeting at the wanted to get aboard to allocatin from the Athletic adverse to paying for parties. the hotel. Ambassador's house last ni~ht accompany us out into the Department for next season's Yonchak will send a proposal to Ernesto Sol did get through and got a good night's sleep, boondocks tomorrow to watch football game with Michigan the men's dorms considering with his wife and young son. which he needed. It's been a the balloting. The Left has said State. the possibility of charging We had Mass about seven very difficult year for him, as tha they are going to go easy on During last night's Student women at the door for hall o'cluck. The mass is always a head of· the Election journalists, but haven't said Senate meeting, Yonchak said social events. "It's by no means great consolation each day and commlSSlOO. anything about officical he will try to convince Father mandatory that guy's dorms source of strength, but today There was a large flap last observers yet. At the election 
Joyce and Ticket Manager have to do this," he noted. the readings were certainly in night about the problem of last week in Guatemala, outside Steve Orsini that students Student Body President tune with the atmosphere numbers on the ballot. The end observers were not very should receive more than the Uoyd Burke also asked the around here. The Entrance of the ballot has a perforated welcome. Even though we've usual 200 tickets for at least one senators to consider whether Antiphon was from Psalm 17 edge with a number that is been invited here by the away game. "It's still going to the $25 student activities fee is ''The snares of death overtook marked down when a person government, I'm sure we're not be a long shot, but I'll keep adequate for all the student me and the ropes of hell has registered. The dilemma is all that welcome with those who working on it," said Yonchak. organizations financed by this tightened around me; in my that without the number, you 

work on proposals 
See HESBURGH page 3
In other business, Yonchak charge. distress I called upon the Lord cannot prevent illegal voting, 


NewsBrie_b 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
Argentina not softening 
BUENOS AIRES, Argentina (AP) ­
An official source who asked not to be identified said Argentina's willingness to forego immediate British recognition of Argentine sovereignty over the islands should not be interpreted as an abandonment of its previously stated position. He said the Argentine government considers United Nations handling of the sovereignty issue a process toward recognizing Argentine rights. The U.N. General Assembly, dominated by the devebping nations, has included the Falklands on a list of territories to be "decolonized." 

Woman astronaut named 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Dr. Sally Ride, an astrophysicist, will become America's first woman in space next year as a crew member for the seventh flight of the space shuttle, NASA announced yesterday. Ms. Ride, 30, is to fly with three male astronauts, all military officers, on the second mission of the second shuttle, the Challenger. The flight, scheduled for six days, is set for lift-off April20, 1983. She will serve as a mission specialist, working with three satellites that are to be placed in orbit from the ship's cargo bay. They are a West German scientific satellite and ocmmunications satellites for Telesat of Canada and the Indonesian government. 

Suspected murderer arrested 
RENO, Nev. (AP) -After a weeklong stakeout by federal agents, officers moved in on a run-down trailer here and arrested a 31-year-old trapper accused of killing two Idaho Fish and Game officers last year. Officials were hoping that Claude Dallas would lead them to the body of one of the game officers slain in January, 1981 after attempting to arrest him on charges of possession of two out-of-season bobcats. Dallas, who was wounded in the foot as he tried to flee officials who closed in on him about 20 miles north of Winnemucca, Nev., was treated in Reno and jailed pending arraignment befofe a federal magistrate. He was charged with first-degree murder in_ the shooting_ deaths of officers Bill Pogue, 50; and Wilson Elms, 34, in a remote corner of Idaho near the Nevada border. Elms' body was recovered, but no sign of Pogue's body has been found in spite of a lengthy search for the former Winnemucca police chief. 


Budget could be balanced 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Former President Carter's chief economist said today the federal budget could be balanced by 1985 if President Reagan and Congress compromise on a combination of tax increases, military spending cuts and scaled back cost-of-living increases in Social Security. Without a compromise, Charles L. Schultze warned, the deficits under Reagan's proposed budget will swell to about $145 billion by 1985, driving up interest rates and preventing sustained economic growth. Schultze, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers from 1977 toJanuary 1981, said the deficit will become even more serious because the government's credit demands will be mushrooming at a time when the Federal Reserve Board is committed to slowing inflation by restricting the growth of money for which borrowers wil have to vie. 

Syria acts against Iran 
BEIRUT* Lebanon (AP) -Syria's President Hafez Assad has classed his country's borders with Iraq and halted the flow of oil, apparently deciding the time is ripe to bring down the longtime rival regime in Baghdad. Assad's action also is likely to help Iran in its border war with Iraq over the vital Shatt el-Arab Persian Gulf waterway. "The Syrian government apparently feels that (Iraqi president) Saddam Hussein is ready to-go. That's why they moved now," said one Arab analyst, who declined to be identified. The independent economic AnNahar Arab Report and Memo predicted Syria's move would likely increase Iraq's dependency on oil-rich Arab creditors on the Persian Gulf and further drain cash reserves, estimated to be half their $30 billion level before the Iran-Iraq war began in September 1980. 


Rainyweather 
WEATHER Continued cloudy and colder with showers, possibly mixed with snow. High 43 degrees. 
--AP 
Weapons Instructor Corporal "Chuck" Berry, from Dorcas­ter, Yorkshire, drills men of ''A'' Company Commando Unit, aboardHMS HERMES in the use of 66mm anti-tank weapons. [AP laserphoto] 

The Observer !USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer 1s publiShed by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Marys Col­lege Subscnphons may be purchased for $25 per year !515 per semester) by wntmg The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer 15 a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 

Tuesday, April 20, 1982 -page 2 



APPhoto File 

these journalists, employees of the Canadian Broadcasting Corp. are shown in their Como­dora Rivadavia hitel Sunday after their releast by the Argentine Government. They, and their colleague Davzd Wtlson, from Toronto, were arrested :::iaturday whzle filming at an airbase outszde ofthe city. From the seft, they are Tony Hillman, from Chicago; and]ohn Axelson, from Toronto. [AP laserphoto] 
J~. 
.; :~,;•.~t-~ 

Pope John Paul II kneels in prayer Sunday surrounded by crosses at Bologna's Polish War Cemetary. The Pope, in a visit to the communist-run city, called on Brittan and Argentina to ''excercise reason and wis­dom '' to avotd war over the Falkland Islands. [AP laser­photo] 

SUMMER STORAGE SPACE 
Special discount for HDlSMC students (Sx lOspace $18.SOpermonth) 
CALL 259·0335 to BESEllVE SPACE SELF LOCK STORAGE OF MCKIBLBY 816 Bast Me Kinley Mishawaka 

Security Patrol Checks 




The Observer 
continued from page 1 
don't want the election to take place because that would prove this country is further along towards democracy than the Left likes to believe. Anyway, the news conference went well, and all of us had a few words to say. 
Following the news conference, there was another wild dash through the city streeets. I am sure the locals will be glad to see us gone. I snatched a few moments to get most of my breviary done for the day before going across the 
Mr. Goodbar Clue 
FOR MONDAY NIGHT: 
"Looking for Mr<Goodbat" contest: 
Historically, c{ampus · . ··. ·.· ··· .. ··· • 
foster spiritual growth ofNot,. Dar,Jt!~·4*•··~~l;ft !Hiping tbem find diYecfion in tbeif'' ·.· ....·.·· lives. One prlest.lbougb,.!Hlps th# · ·. er way. Fatber Walsh; wiu;nJ)ned president, points tbe direction ~ • ll1tJ questfor M,-i QQQti~, ·· 

.An Tostal Open-GolfTourtlllm~m: l···.=··oc·'lnnffi 
Weeklong Eve.-..ts .Daisy Sale-
AN TOSTAL SIGN UPS FOR The Dating Game will be held Tues., April 20, 6:30 pm. eJa~ La Fortu11e Ballroom .. 




• 


BEER GARDEN 
Thursday, 9-12:30 at St. Mary's 


blutteK 


Arae you ct&tted? 
~fo.Le lb 1982-1983 Cuflutw£ 'A'lf6 AMibfrucl 

CmtuttiMioa 
AI'~ aile hehcg auepfed b~tmtt 
F~. Ap'lit 16 U1J wctie f!Uday. Cmtte fJick U1J yOUJt iK lb StudM UMimt o!Jbice 

street to a presentation of all the election intricacies and rules by Bustamante. I certainly hope he has figured out the ballot registration number problem by now. Incidentally, it's a beautiful sunny day here, rather warm. For the next meeting which is more relaxed, I'm changing into the official dress here which is a guayabera, a white shirt with simple decorations on it. It's a kind of national garb for thehot weather. Also, I have taken to carrying the Holy Oils in my pocket in case I come across someone in need of the Last 
Here is clJ.~c:two m 

• • • Hesburgh 
Rites.  
I  sat  with  Clark  Kerr  and  
listened  to  Bustamante  for  
about  a  half  hour  with  our  

guard immediately behind us. It's a curious way of life that one has to get used to with a guard always present and alwys with his hand on the butt of a .45. Since we knew most of the things that were being asked by journalists from all over the world (we later learned that there were between 400 and 700 of them here), we left the meeting early. I went to the American Embassy, which is called Fort Apache. It is an amazing embassy and perhaps a sign of the post-Teheran times. We had to go in the back way, not the front, and then through guarded corridors, people at every intersection with handguns and rifles and shotguns, and then up through corridors where every opening was covered with barred protection and every door was solid steel with a combination entry lock. We finally entered the Ambassador's office and found him relaxed, as usual. We then went down to the basement of the building to meet with the young military 





What do SChOlastic Magazine and the Communication & Theatre Department have in common? 
Movin'out? 
RENT A RYDER TRUCK 

If you·re 18 or over you can rent a Ryder truck to use locally or on a one-way (rent-It-here. leave-It-there) tnp to another c1ty FOR INFORfv1ATION 
Compare costs before you make plans for mov1ng at the end of the semester With a truck you can take along your stereo. 10-speed, CALL 277-3550 clothes, all your stuff, and still have plenty of room for one or two other people and their th1ngs. so you can share the costs. Com[.Jare that to a plane t1rket Or even a bus. 

Rent from the best-maintained. most dependable fleet 1n ~~ the world Ryder The be~t truck money can rent · -a·" 

~ ·----------------------­
'"'~t~t;-. 1 1·l 0% OFF ~Jg,~;~Yate . 
· .· . 1' . · 

11 l·wifhthisCOUPONandyour Student. 
tr/!;) I'N~J~~::: ~ "'. I FacultyiD 
I
Jlr~,. 1 )~ .>J .----, . . 1I through June 30, 1982 ~·J,, _~l"~~·-OfferS!!~ at 2715N.Ben4ixDr.,S.B.
.·.· ·~,.~·-·. 
·I ---~-----------~-~~----~~ 

~ RYDERTRUCKRENTAL 
1 .:' 

-\!~~~\ 2715N.BENDIXDRSouthBend 

country. We then went up to the roof and looked oyer the whole city from this vantage point. It's a beautiful ;::iry situated between volcanic mountains and stretching out north and south. We also visited the four or five Marine posts on the top of the roof. These poor guys have to sit in flak jackets all day long (very warm) with mortars and rapid ftre automatic rifles at hand. It's not very good duty, since the California-type weather here gets warm at noontime, especially if one is sitting on a roof. From there, we went back to the hotel where we had a real Notre Dame lunch. We began with Rolando Duarte, the brother of the President, and Armando Palomo and Ernesto Sol, whom I mentioned yesterday. Later, as the Mariachi band started up, we were joined by the President of the ) unta and my former student Napoleon Duarte. I must say that all of the eyebrows were raised as he walked into the room and gave me a big hug. As usual, he had his own guard, a captain in the Army, who was staying very 
Olll
MIWQAIII'WIIIIII.nuur PROGRAM 
Cii1S10U 


MOIE1HAN 

'IWOIMCOMIS 
If you have at least two years ofcollege left, they can be over $o.OOO cheaper. By joining the Army Reserve and Army ROTC at the same time, you cam two incomes-over $100 a month as a Reservist, and $100 a month as an ROTCCadet. You graduate from ROTC a second lieutenant and continue in the Reserve as an Army officer. It's called the Simulta­neous Membership Program By joining the Army Reserve now, 
you can take your paid initial entry rraining over the summer. You 'II then qualify for Ad­vanced ROTC pro­grams at over HOO colkges, universities, and cros.~-cnrollnwnt schools. Ii Yl lll 'd like to learn more, stop hy or call. 




a ... 
South Bend 




·Business & Technology_Tue_sday_,Apr_nzo_,198_2_pag_e4 
·' 
Research Update 
AN AWARD OF $92,581 from the Indiana State Board of Health for arbovirus surveillance laboratory service directed by Dr. Paul Grimstad, assistant professor of biology, heads fund:ag of 707,292 during March for the University of Notre Dame's .research, instruction­al, and service programs. Research awards totalling $601,561 included: 
--$179,154 from the National Institutes of Health for studies of the reproductive physiology of Aedes mosquitoes by Dr. Morton Fuchs, professor of biology, and Suk-Hee Kang, assistant faculty fellow in biology. --$155,000 from the National Science Foundation for research in elementary particle physics by Dr. John Poirier, professor of physics. --$93,559 from the National Science Foundation for research of radiation convection interaction in heat transfer by Dr.John Lloyd, and Dr. Kwang-Tzu Yang, professors of aerospace and mechanical engineering. --$81,342 from the National Institutes of Health for a biomedical research support grant to be administered by Dr. Robert Gordon, professor of biology and vice president for advanced studies. 

r•••··--------~-----------------·-------, 
-What AreYou Doing This SUmmer? • 
Consider 
"The Boston Experience" .lJne 13-.lJty4 Ministry, communi1y, prayer Deadline: May 1 Contact: Jim David CSC 239-7735 


~----------------------~------------~--~ 
ATTENTION ALL GRADUATING STUDENTS 
Measurements will be taken for 



Caps and Gowns 
Monday April 27 Tuesday April 28 Between 9:00 -4:00 

at the 
• NOTRE DA.A,~E 


Chemistry prof delivers Reilly Lectures 
Dr. Sheldon G. Shore, pro­
fessor of chemistry at Ohio 
State University, will deliver 
the Reilly Lectures in chemistry 
at the University of Notre Dame 
during the week of April 19. 
His ftrst talk, given yesterday afternoon, dealt with systematic approaches to the preparation and study of small boron hydrides and relationships to metalloborane and metal duster systems. On 
Wednesday he will speak on metalloborane analogues of organometallic systems, concluding Friday with approaches to the preparation and study of metal cluster systems and reactivities of ruthenium cluster anions on the catalysis of the water-gas shift reaciton. All lectures are at 4:30 
p.m. in Room 123 of the Nieuwland Science Hall. 


Fellowship awarded 



Accountancy research continues 
University of Illinois engineering student Daniel T aiken adjusts the mechanical hands ofa robot which can solve the popular Rubik 's Cube puzzle. The Robot's computer brain can work out the solu#on in two-tenths ofa second, but it takes its hands about 12 minutes to make the average 110 moves necessaryto solve the puzzle. }ap laserphoto] 
By NORliN RUESCHHOFF 
Accountancy Department 
Chairman 
Professor Michael Morris was announced the ftfth annual Coopers and Lybrand Research fellow at the Notre Dame Accounting Association's spring banquet last W ednes­day evening. Morris was recently appointed to the fellowship for the 1982-83 aca­demic year by the University Provost. Timothy O'Meara. The fellowship will gr.ant him a leave of absence from teaching durin~ the spring semester and provide him a summer grant in 1983. 
Michael Morris joined the accountancy faculty · tember, 1979, and currendy teaches cost and managerial accounting. He completed his doctorate at the University of Cincinnati. Morris has made presentations of research pap­ers at meetings of the Amer­ican Accounting Association and the American Institute for Decision Sciences. He has had articles published in Taxes-­

The Tax Machine, The Michi­gan CPA, and The Woman CPA. Morris is a member of the American Accounting As­sociation and is currently ser­ving on the board of directors of the Michiana chapter of the National Association of Ac-
and Lybrand is now in its fourth year at Notre Dame. Professor William Nichols is the present holder of this fellowship. 
The program has proven itself to be very productive in fostering scholarly research ac­tivity in accountancy at Notre Dame. During this past year, the first two Coopers and Lybrand fellowship recipients, Professor James Gaertner and Professor David Ricchiute, received national recognition for having written articles that were published in the fall 1981 edition of New Guides for the Professional Accountant (a 
selective collection of articles that have appeared in the journal ofAccountancy during the past year). · 

I 
BOOKSTORE 
----------------------------------------------------------·­



Editorials 
Tuesday, April 20, 1982 -page 5 
Making income tax returns public 
We have all paid -or avoided paying -our federal income tax now and it feels so good to have it over with that it doesn't hurt as much as it ought to. I made more money last year than I've ever made before but my taxes were the most money I ever paid, too. 
Andy Rooney 
Wit and Wisdom 

To tell you the truth, I have a feeling I paid more than my share. I suppose a lot of people think that. There must be a lot of other people, though, who know darn well they didn't pay enough. They beat the system. 
I have an idea how the IRS could get more money out of the tax cheaters, and it wouldn't cost the 
Editor's note: Notre Dame will sponsor a symposium on Paul VI's encyclical, "On Human Work,"' May 3-5. 
Dear Editor: 
To talk about religion and cor­porations sharing a common vi· sion, or even more, cooperation or creating together -it's harli to imagine! Social justice resolu­tions from religious orders and dioceses challenge management and directors at stockholders meetings. Charges arc levelled about multinational exlpoita­tions of underdeveloped countries and economically deprcs.~d American cities. Ac­cusations fly about Marxist and 
Soialist activists in religion. 
lntellc:ctuab say that labor uni­ons are out-of-tune and have grown fat. lJnioni6ts claim that the academicians are in·orbit and snobbish. M11nagement com­plains about the anti-capitalism and pro-socialism atmosphere persuasive on too many campuses. Professors murmur about the cozy relations between corporate execudvc:s and rc:ligious lc:aders. Religious leaders complain ofintellectuals' myopia and negativism. Business leaders say unions are out-of-date and expensive: Industrial dlnasours. Union leaders assert that corporation bosses and their hired consultants arc: out to destroy the the workers' moral and civil rights. Religious leaders 
government a nickel. They would make income tax record~ open to everyone. Once a year, the amount we each paid would be posted in the Town Hall or printed in the newspaper. 
At the very least, the figures would be readily available to anyone: who wanted to look them up. This would be the way to get better compliance with the tax laws. 
People who wouldn't cheat or steal anywhere else have no hesita­tion about cheating on their tax returns if they think they can get away with it. Most of the same people wouldn't cheat at all if they knew their neighbors were going to see what they'd done. 
They don't mind cheating the big, anonymous bureaucracy, but they would t n't steal from their friends. The fact that cheating on their tax is the same as stealing 
say unions do not appreciate the goals or problems of their insitu­tions. 
What about planning a discus­sion of the religious vision that sees labor and management as co-reators in production and services that place personal dig­nity and common good above corporate expansionisn and expanding profits? Yes, that's what will happen in Notre Dame's Center for Continuing Education on May 3-5, 1982. 
There will be many insights and challenges from bright and experienced people. 
The conference is no more crazy than the ideals ofPopeJohn Paul ll's latest encyclical "On Human Work" -the focus and inspiration for Fr. Williams' and Prof. Houck's second such con· ference. It's as old as the dreams of Popes Leo Xlll, Pius XI, Pius Xll,John XXlll, and Paul VI. It's as new as the United Automobile Workers Union contracts with Ford and General Motors. 
Private property has rights and duties; corporations have stewardship as well as ownership considerations. Unions must seek more than "more ofeverything". Religion belongs in the market place as well as in the sacristy. Government must intervene when labor and%or management fall. 
If you think this is a sales pitch -you're right. It's enriching now class lectures and readings come together, majors and concentrations will be from their friends doesn't occur to them. 
I've always thought the govern· ment goes about trying to get us to pay our taxes the wrong way. They need the review system and I suppose they have to scare some people with the threat ofa jail sen· renee, but the IRS has never ap­pealed much to our sense of national pride. 
Americans would be proud to pay their income tax if they thought their money was not being wasted in Washington. 
lf everyone knew what everyone else was paying, it would make it easier to be proud, too. No one gets much of a kick out of being proud in front ofa computer that's checking a return for errors in arithmetic. 
I don't know why income tax returns are secret. They're con­sidered nobody else's business, 
related. It'll be enriching later ­being Christian involves labor and management, scholarship and leadership. 
A display in the' library con­course includes photographs and biographical sketches of the con­ference speakers, including such executives, union leaders, and scholars as Mary Cunningham, Thomas Donahue, Mark Fitzgerald, Denis Goulet, Stanley Haverwas, and Michael Novak. 
For more information <~bout the symposium, t contact Fr. Oliver Williams or Professor John Houch. 
Fr. Pat Sullit'li11 Dept. ofSocio. ~ ,Anthro. 
even though what we earn isn't usually much ofa secret to anyone who knows us or to anyone who wants to find out. We all have a 
pretty good idea how much  our  
friends  and  our  enemies  are  
making.  

We may nor be able to pin it down to the dollar, but unless they've found some way to steal and are hiding the money under the mattress, our friends' salary ranges are apparent to us. lfthe}"re driving a Mercedes, they're making more than we are. 
If we know how much our neighbors make, what's wrong with knowing how much tax they pay? It would be a way of applying a kind of str-ong peer pressure that the government could never app· ly. We'd all be embarrassed into paying our fair share. 
Very likely there would be people who'd pay more than they 
had to just to keep up with the joneses. 
More than half the income ofthe tederal government comes from taxing the salaries of individuals. Most of that comes from money •· that is withheld from their payc­hecks. No one gets rich on a salary, no matter how high it is, and no one can cheat much on his tax ifit's witl}held, either. 
I'd like to see the federal govern­ment concentrate their inves­tigative efforts toward the people whose income is derived from sources other than salary. I'd like to be able to look at the tax books and find out how much the guy with the house with the four-car garage and the chauffeur-driven Cadillac is paying, because if he's getting off easier than I am, I'm damn sore about it. 
Capy. 1982, Tribune Co. ,~)•11d. 

P.O.BoxQ 
Meaning ofdeath 
DearEditor: 
Last Thursday, Tom Perruccio 
died. I did not know him very 
well. Last year before he 
graduated we had a couple of 
pleasant conversations in the 
dining hall, and I found him to 
have an entertaining wit. 
The one thing I recall most 
clearly about Tom was a ride on 
his golf cart, which he owned for 
his heart condition. I stood on 
the back end and pretended I was 
a Roman Legionnaire rushing to 
battle on my golden chariot. 
But as I say I did not know him well. I can not say I feel the deep sense of loss that others surely feel. But his death did make my mind go back to others I knew well who had died young. The tragedy of young death is very powerful. 
Yet what strikes me most about such deaths is that we are all Tom Perruccios. Time is short. We may all die tomorrow, and even ifwe make it to our rocking chairs, it isn't really that much time. 
The words of the Henry Fonda character in On Golde'1 Pona come to mind. Upon the celebra­tion of his four score years he said: "I'm just suprised it got here this fa~t." 
I am still a very young man on the verge ofgraduating from col­lege, yet I am amazed at the speed of life. The years have served to move so quickly. I sometimes feel like a meteor rocketing through time. 
This the death of Tom Perruc­

cio leaves me with a great sense 
of urgency. I want to squeeze joy 
out of every single moment. Per­
haps what the death of the young 
teaches to us is simply to live on. 
For with determination I believe 
life: can be created into one 
beautiful moment. 
So if l was holding a glass now 

instead of a pen, I hold up my 
drink and propose a tot~st to Tom 
Perruccio, thanking him for the 
times he gave those who knew 
him and especially for a very 
enjoyable ride on his golfcart. 
Sean F Faircloth 


Editorial Board Department Managers
Ihe_Obseoe;== 
The Obrert,er is an independent newspaper published by the students of the ............ MI...·had Monk Uusint•ss MtllltiJ.W' ...............Tony Aiello
1:"11itor in·l.bit•( Unrvcr~ity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary"s College. It does not necessarily .\lmwging f."ditor.... .Ryan Vn lkrkntol·~ Conttvllt•r .........Erk ~:hul:r. reflt•\.1 the policies of the administratior• of either institution. The n1.-ws is report· 1:".\·t•atlil•t• iVI'U'S l:"t/ilor.. ....1\.dli Hint Adl•t•rtisinf.1 Manager.. . ......... Chris Owt:n ed as a!"curately and as obj(•\.livdy as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of .UI<: .'Vt•u·.~ 1-:ditor.... ....Mar~arl'l !'osmol· Production 1 Mtmagt•r . ...... Maura Murphy a maJority of the Editotial Board. Co.nmentaries, opinions and letters are the views SJwrts l:"ditor.. .....Chris Nn·dks Circulation Managt•r .. ......... Ray ln~lin of their authors. Column space is availabk· to all members of the community, and l:"ditoria/s l:"tlitor ... ... Paul Md;inn SJ'SII'/1/S Mt/1/ll,f.lt'l" ... ...... IIrun· Oakky the free expression of varying opimons on campus, through letters, ili encoun.ged. Feotun·.~ l:"ditor .. ....Tari Brown 
' 
1'/.Joto 1:"1/itor .. .. K;adtd l~lount Founded November 3, 1966 
P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) H9-5303 

Sports=l=l=r=.,=·e:::l~l..=s===============T=ue=sd=ay::;,1;::::Ap=n=·l2=0=,1=9=82==pa=ge=6 
By The Obserl!er and The Associated Press 
IRISH GUARD TRYOUTS are approaching quickly. All those interested in trying out for the 1982·83 Guard should attend a short practice on Thursday, April 22, on Green Field next to the band tower. No experience is necessary, howevercandidates must be at least 6 feet, 2 inches tall. For more information, call Kevin Connors at 1216.--The Observer. 
TWO CLOSE ONES ELUDED the Notre Dame baseball team Sunday, as the Irish dropped a doubleheader to Indiana State University, 3-2, in eight-.. innings, and 7·6. Steve Whitmyer took the loss in the opener as Dan Szajko knocked in both in the Irish runs, and contributed one of the only two Notre Dame hits. In the second game, Bill Stonikas started, but lasted only two innings as Tom Conlin relieved him in a losing effort. The Irish could muster only fove hits as Phil Dingle went one-for-two, with two RBis. The next Irish game is tomorrow against St. ] osephs at 1 p.m. on]ake Kline Field.--The Observer 
COACH RICH O'LEARY'S Notre Dame Lacrosse team will take on Midwest power Denison College tomorrow at 3:30p.m. The game will be played either on Cartier Field or Alumni Field, depending on the weather.--The Observer 
THE SMC TRACK TEAM will be in action this afternoon. The team, coached by Rachel Wroblewski and Tim Dillon, will run against Manchester College, Anderson College, and Tri-State College in a meet to be held at Manchester. The meet begins at 3 
p.m.--The Observer 

AN TOSTAL INNERTUBE WATERPOLO continued yesterday with third-round action. '']. Arthur and the Traveling H ... bags Take to the High Seas" defeated ''Fighting Piranhas Don't Nibble,'' 12-6. Also, Heaven Above" beat "Wet Dreams," 9-3 while "Dick Moby and the Sperm Whales" swept past "Rock Lobsters" 11-6. The third round continues this afternoon at the Rock, as "Belushi's Coke Chokers" takes on "Dead meat and the Porkers" at 4:00. Then "Neptune's Nymphs" faces "Trout Fishermen in America'' at 4:40, followed by the "Lust Bombs" against "Chlor­inated Water Otters" at 5:20.--The Observer 
THE ND-SMC SAILING CLUB will hold an officers meeting tonight at nine in the Howard Social Space. All officers should attend.--The Observer 
ND MEN'S VOLLEYBALL team will be in action tomorrow night in the ACC pit, as the Irish take on IUPU-Fort Wayne. The Contest begins at 7 p.m.--The 
Observer 
SMC'S WOMEN'S SOFTBALL team, coming off a first-place finish in the Valparaiso University Tour­nament over the weekend, plays host to Bethel College this afternoon at three.--The Observer 
ND'S WOMEN'S SOFTBALL team swept a double­header from Bethel College yesterday by scores of 6-2 and 1 7 · 2 . The Irish will be back in action this afternoon as they play host to Purdue.--The Observer 
Bookstore Today 
Stepan 1: 
5:30 • Assassins vs. The Nutmeggers Are Back Again. 
6: U -Milwaukee vs. Quintin Dailey and Four Felons. 
Stepan 2: 
5:30 -Big Organ and the Bouncing Balls vs. R. Cranium. 
6:15 Full House vs. Brogan's Heroes. 
Stepan 3: 
5: 30 -Fingers in the Socket vs. M.C.O.B. 
6:15 Ryan's Hopes vs. ] ohnny the Wad Holmes and Four Other Guys Who Can Fill it to the Brim. · Stepan 4: 
5:30 N.E.B.O.'s III vs. Brickthrowers. 
6:15 -Double Decke Oreo vs. A Touch of Class. 
Lyons 11: 
5:30 Tequilla White Lightning vs. Thomas Aquinas and the Jurist Prudes. 
6:15 Red Rummers vs. Evenless]acksonless Five. 
Bookstore 9: 
4:45 · Cooz vs. Haywood Jablomi Now. 
5:30 -Macri's Monkey Men vs. u.s. 
6:15 -Wildcats II vs. Talk Plenty S ... , Again. 
Bookstore 10: 
4:45 -Shysters vs. Beecher Meat and Liquor. 
5:30 -Eddie O'Rourke and the Travelling Stagglers vs. Snag. 
6:15 -Take This Ball and Shove It II vs. Twinkie and the Creamers. 

The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday. 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However. classif1eds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day pnor to insertion. All classif1eds must be prepaid, 
either in person or through the ma1L
Classifieds 

NICE HOUSES FURNISHED CLOSt: TO WANTED · CUBE REFRIGERATOR -SMC HALL ELECTIONS THE NORTH END OF A SOUTH BOUNU NO FOR NEXT YEAR 2773604 272·9141 555 THURS APRIL 22 DONKEY LOOKS REMARKABLY UKE Vote for next years hall officers You can THE SOUTH END OF A NORTH BOUND
NOTICES 
For Rent: Student Housmg-rated TICKETS vote 1n the dining hall dunng all meals or 1n DONKEY VOTE CHRISTOPHER PER­superior-summer and/or fall. Clean, safe, LeMans lobby from 9 to 11 a.m. or 1:30 to RY FOR UMOC!!I laundry, utilities, $100/mo total. 291-4:30p.m. VOTE VOTE VOTE 1405 workmg order.282-1777 DEAR SANDY Where were you this 
I VE GOT MONEY. SELL ME YOUR EX· 
HAIRCUTS! ONLY $4 FOR GUYS AND morn1ng? I m1ssed you Go to class, eh? 
TRA GRAD TICKETS!!! CALL BRIAN al
$6 FOR GIRLS--LOT OF EXPERIENCE Subleas1ng Campus View Apt. Jun.-Aug. Person wanted to dnve new car to ABIOGENESIS, TOMORROW 8 PM From a lonely 1nsh banshn1kov. 
1928
IN STYLING, ROTC AND PERSONALLY Reduced Rent Call Anne Or Mary 4637 Philadelphia week of May 10 and return DANCE CONCERT, WASHINGTON DESIGNED CUTS FOR YOUR FACE (SMC) another car to South Bend within ap­HALL DON,
I NEED TWO OR THREE TIX FOR KEN· 
AND HAIR CALL MICHOLE AT 7951 proximately 30 days. Call 232·0453 Hope you had a great 22nd 
NY ROGERS (ON MAIN FLOOR IF
before April 23. Eastern A1rllnes proudly announces 1ts BIRTHDAY!!!
POSSIBLE) PLEASE CALL JOHN x3175 
Expenenced typist will do typ1ng. Call Furnished House tor next year · 6 bdrm 2 new Campus Costcutters Program. A Love, 287·5162. Good speller. NEED 2 RIDERS TO INDPLS/DEPAUW
bath $540 per mo. 717 St. Lou1s Call Tom s1mple, inexpensive, and fast method tor PEGGY Will exchange BEER or $ for 1 graduation 
McGann 277·3-461 or272·9299 LEAVE 4/23 BILL 7289 sh1pp1ng personal effects home Watch 
ticket Laura 6816 
POET RICHARD TILLINGHAST for details com1ng soon: WED. APRIL 21 -7:30 P.M. IN FOR TYPING CALL 288·5855 HAPPY BIRTHDAY JULIE LINUS PIER· 
Wanted 2 ND Grad. TIX Call and name
STAPLETON LOUNGE, SAINT SUMMER SUBLESSEE$ WANTED' REGIS EUGENE ALLISON· THE FACE SON We call her Julush and she fits her Comfortable, fully furnished, 2 bdrm apt 1n 
your pnce Dan 283-4639 
MARY'S, BE THERE! Aide or nders east on 1·80 as far as N.J. THAT INSPIRED PREPARATION HI name. Her sp1ndly limbs Will make you Hickory Village. If mterested call Carol or 4/22·4/25. Call Joe 1409 lame So when Wishing her a Happy 19th SUMMER WORK $$$ NO students avg. M1chele at 272-9603 Attention all N D. females Are your arms B·Day, Be sure you stand a good dis· 4000$ last summer travel expenence R1de needed to Toledo on Fnday, April tired from carrymg heavy books to and tance away. Especially if alcohol con· send name address and phone no to 23, and back to NO Saturday, April 24. from class all day long? Well, dunng An sumpuon has taken place, Or shes met
SUMMER SUBLET 1258 PORTAGE 
PERSONALS
P.O BOX 435 N D.,lnd 46556 T ostal week your wornes about dragg1ng up w1th the "I'm Sure , ·were There ,
Call Denny at 1184 your books around are over! As a spec1al Bugged Eye Race. Now Julie, We all want 
AVE GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD 1 or 2 
persn apt. call289 5931
SENIOR CLASS MUG DISTRIBUTION serv1ce to you Alumm Hall residents wilt you to have a great time. But don t wet 
Tuesday, April 20th 5:00-7:00 Stanford MIKE FOR carry your books for ·you. All that need to your pants tra1t?) over thiS Hall Party Room Be your own boss. Comfortable 5 REALLYWANTSITIIII you do IS call your. favorite Alumm l;iall rhyme! Have fun Chica Love, Mel. Meg, resident anyt1me·Tues. through Fn. and Reets, Cathy, & Weeble 
GURDAK U.M.O.C •..•.. HE (a fam1iy 
bedroom, completely furnished house for Yau·ve heard about it. .. you've been put h1m to work for you. 
5 or 6. Close 10 campus. Phone 288-3942. FOR SALE CANOE RACE SIGN UPS TUES. APRIL waiting all year for it..finally, now is your 
20TH, LaFORTUNE 7-9pm Cathy A When(lf?) you really would like to chance to see Mike "Gorgr' Qun!H; in go out with me, just g1ve me a call. Jim H action..this USED BOOK SHOP HOURS WED , AN TOSTAL DAISY SALE APRIL 17·20, FOR SALE: One way plane fare on United N D Ave. Apts.· Apts available tor sum· SAT. SUN 9-7. CASPERSON 1303 IN YOUR LOCAL DINING HALLS!! out of So Bend to Los Angeles for $100. BOSTON-CHICAGO SNOWOUT mer BUCHANAN RD .. NILES Call Ed at 1238. REFUNDS MON. Apr 26 ?p.m. 160/month AN TOSTAL DAISY SALE. APRIL 17·20, LaFortune L1ttle Theatre. RED SOX and next school year 234-6647 IN YOUR LOCAL DINING HALLS!! REFUNDS!
LOST/FOUND 

Special Discounts for Notre Dame ENJOY RICHARD TILLINGHAST faculty on computers and peripheral V1nyl Jeffers for UMOC -Ugly Moon on TOMORROW AND THURSDAY IN BOSTON BAGGAGE TRUCK Deta1ls, 2 student houses tor rent on Notre Dame products, printers, modems, etc. Hewlett­Campus. STAPLETON LOUNGE' soon. Watch OBSERVER and newsletter FOUND A bracelet at the Stanford 
Ave. One 4-stu, one 5-stu house. Within Packard. Zen1th FOURWAY COM­walking d1stance. Ava1i. fall semester 82. Hey, Jeff Novotny, where 1s
Vegetable party. To claim call8738. PUTER PRODUCTS, INC., 52758 US 31 COMPUTER TYPING of papers, dis­
Call evemngs 272·8870 North (Across from North VIllage Mall) sertations, books. If you must rev1se, we my lawn muwer? Jack1e and Kathy, Rememb~r M1nam s ATTENTION:Towhoever"borrowed" my 
277·7720. save you t1me and money Beaut1ful reqwrement for graduation. You may not wallet and watch from the student l1mshed work. 233·9900. PLEASE VOTE FITT AND UZNANSKI make it Jackie, but Kathy s gomg to get 1n MCCANDLESS PRES. I V P THURS
security. The watch has great sentimental BEAUTIFUL FORD FIESTA 1980 w1th under the w1re ·-Two g1rls who have value. and tl would tal<e me about 69 5500 m1les, call277·4413 nights or mor· Meet poet RICHARD TILLINGHAST APRIL 22 THURS. APRIL 22 never been to Ch1cago P S. We have weeks to replace all of the stuH in the wal­WANTED mngs during his poetry reading, Wed: Aprlf doughnuts! let No questions will be asked ... 

21 at 7:30 p.m., Stapleton Lounge or F U. IN 82 F.U JN 82 F U. IN 82 during an OPEN WORKSHOP, Aprll22 CATCHY, AIN TIT? JULIE,MOM,DAD.and TERRI. LOST:·· Navy blue NIKE sweat pants at · Professor requires part-time lypist who FOR SALE MED·SIZE FRIDGE 191NCH at 4 p.m., also In Stapleton. f Just wanted to see-1f you re~~ the per­Stepan Courts during Bookstore Basket· 
~'Is access to Commodore CBM Model B&W TV CALL 1494 or 1538 MIK.E or On April 27 at 1:30 P"l· in the library sonals as closely as the bookstore ball. cau Tim 6984 8032 System. Send spec1f1CS to PO Box BOB auditorium, JUDY FENLON will r~ames! See yOu tn a Couple weeks! 77, Notre Dame, IN 46556. One should have a Card lnde~ present a slide show.entitled "My Kids, Love. Ann LOST: 1 pr. of eyeglasses wiih black THE BEST STEREO G~AR AT TH~ 
My-Life". Featured kid,. will be Lenny case. Between or in LaFortune and 
DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE TO LOWEST PRICES, BOSE H K JVC ALL VIC TAYBACK tor SENIOR FELLOW and Damian. Please call 6724 lor Cavanaugh. Help I Call Ed x1470 WOMEN OF LE MANS, HARKII VOTE
DAVENPORT, IOWA, APRIL 23-25. TOP BRANDS OFFERED AT SPECIAL reservations as huge crowds are ex· WILL SHARE EXPENSES. CALL STUDENT RATES CALL JB DRAMA! DANCE! MUSIC! ART' peeled. The first 50 callers will receive LORENZINI·CLARKE---FOR HALL CHERYL, 284-4529. 8232,8228,8213 FOR DETAILS xxx FRESHMEN & SOPHOMORES: Are you a ton of junk food compliments of that PRES & VP 1982·83 
FOR RENT 

cultured? Apply to be the 1982·1983 lovable tul>:o-fard, Damian. Desperata-·need one or more gradua­B1g Color TV $90 call before Spm 233· CULTURAL ARTS ASSISTANT COM­Superman. tion tickets. Call277·6032. 2032 MISSIONER Applications are be1ng ac­Attention Observerltes PLEASE take off your glasses! Do cepted from Fnday, Apnl 16 up unt1i Our annual softball fun-for-alliS Fnday BG s really approach the f1es11er wench? I 
Need ride to PURDUE for Grand Pnx on Its spnng!!!! T1me to lh1nk STEREOS Friday, April 23 Come p1ck up your ap­Check the poster ~n the c;>ff1ce for the excJt­hear they re more upllft1ng 4 Bdrm N Shore $270 mo total. Call Patty Fn. Aptil 23. Can leave anyt1me. Call Name brands at great pnces. Now IS the plication 1n the Student Un1on OH1ce, 2nd rng detailS Close but no c1gar 3193228735 Call refunded Shern 6819 t1me. call M1ke at 1087 floor La Forlune 
l i 
.---~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
--:----1 
~~============================= 
~~4C)l~~============================T=u=e=sd=a=y=,A=p=r=il=2=0=,=19=8=2===p=a=ge==7
Molarity Michael Molinelli 


Doonesbury 
IZL TliLL Yal, HCWI3Y, THIS INVA51CW IS PUR£ GOWl NOT 
7W MANY M/R5 lJIESC alY5 11/H&R£ YaJ GH TWO Wee.K5' NOTICE, YOU KNOIAJ:" 
~ , / -o/ 

Stuffs· 
i ~n
5 
"'< 

The Daily Crossword 
©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, inc. 4/20/82 Ail Rights Reserved 

Dr. Hatem Hussaini 
Director of the PLO'S Palestine Information Office 
Mideast Peace 
Tuesday, April20, 8:00pm Memorial Library Auditorium 
18 Rabelais 37 Sesame giant plant 20 Falter 38 Gamut. 
In speech 39 European 22 Apportioned junipers 23 Acting 41 Toothless 
parts 43 One who 24 Yemen delights in seaport cruelty
Monday's Solution 

/CO 1-A.TC: P,EEN PUr /IV TJit::. CU151AltiF\f AND qRovNP ()p tJJTH THE: 

Garry Trudeau 
ta< ewe&. we
Y/35, 5/R,fT 
HAIJ eNOWH TIM8 
ti/A5 QUITE 
70 68T A 0tCENT
A BREAJ<. 
BROCHURE 01/T. 
I /
.I 
}eb Cashin 
r--4)~~~~--~~--4~~~----~~~~..--------~~~~~~~--------------~Jt~.~~~ 
Campus 
•12 
p.m. -Lecture, "Practical Applications of Plant and Insect Cell Culture," ~rl Maramorosch, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium, room 278, 

•12: 
15 p.m. Biology Seminar, "Environmental Movements and Effects ofFederal Agencies," Frank W. Collins, Galvin Life Sciences Center, room 8002, 

• 
3 p.m. -Lecture, "Blitzed, Wasted, Ripped, or Just a Little Smashed-How OK is It?" Rev. Joseph C. Martin, Library Auditorium, Free to students with ID cards otherwise s:a.oo 

•4:30 
p.m. -Biology Seminar "Practical Aplica­tions of Environmental Laws," Frank W. Collins, Galvin Lite Sciences Auditorium 

•7 
p.m. -Lecture, "'The Middle East/P.L.O.", Dr. Hatem Hussaini. Library Auditorium, Sponsored by SliAC, 

•7 
.m., 9 p.m., II p.m. -Filnt, "Summer of 42", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by SUAC, 

•H 
p.m. -Lecture, "Episodes in the History ofthe American Engineering Profession," Bruce Sincl<~ir, llniv. of Toronto, C::nter Center, 


T.V. Tonight 
Tuesday, April20 
7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 
9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10:00p.m. 
!0:30p.m. ll:OOp.m. 
11:30p.m. 
12:00 a.m. 12:30p.m. 
16 MASII 22 CBS N~ws 28 jok~r·s Wild 34 Th~ MacN~II/l.~hr~r R~pon 16 Th~ Mupp~l Show 22 l'amily l'~ud 28 Tic: Tac Dough ~4 Straight Talk 16 Hrc:t Ma•·c:ric:k 22 Q.E.D. 28 Happy Days 34 l.ik on Earth 28 l.av~rn~ and Shirley 16 l'lamingo Road 22 CBS Movi~: "Parol~" 
28 Thr~~·s Company 
34 American l'l~yhpu:;c 
28 Too Close !'or Comfort 
16 NBC Whit~ Papt:r: Pleasure Drugs the 
<;r~at American High 28 Hart to Hart 34 The City ls Ours 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 The Dick Caven Show 16 Tonight Show 22 Alice/WKRP/McCioud 28 ABC News Nightline 34 Captioned ABC News 28 Fantasy Island 16 Late Night With David Leiterman 
• 

-
-
... 

·I 
... 
ACROSS 1 "Citizen-" 5 Map within 
a map 10 Use a dirk 14 False god 15 Civil War 
general 
16 Takeout order words 
17 Locale 

25 Display clearly 27 Refuse to budge 31 Sulfide mixture 32 Walking 
pole 33 -Grande 34 Select 35 Mud 36 Harem room 
44 English composer 45 Short jacket 46 USsub· 
marine 49 Scored 52 Massive 55 Musical 
sound 56 Partly open 57 Town 
~~ 
13 Forward 19 Belgian 
port 21 Spice 24 Many­
(often) 25 Act like 
a ham 26 Flat 27 Set of 
steps 28 Exciting 

officer 58 Pear-shaped 
instrument 59 Notany 60 Store 
events 61 Rlverin Belgium 
DOWN 1 Certain 
• candy 2 Mine 
passage 3 Very much 4 Ingredient 5 Check 6 Approaches 7-Clemente 8 Tlmezone 
letters 9 Poet Sara 
10 Leave a runner on base 
11 Journey 12 USwriter 
wonder 29 Adjutants 30 Breakfast 
item 32 Roof material 35 Pre-surgery 
apparatus 38 Thurmond 39 Sandburg 40 In a grown­
up way 42 Inherent tendencies 43 Fissile 
rocks 45 Cask part 46 Fed 47 Red: Sp. 48 -instant 
(immedi· ately) 50 Heraldic 
term 51 Hart 53 Educ. group 54-Aviv 
Drinking too much? 
l'r. Joseph Martin of '"Chalk Talk" fame will make a presentation at Notre Dame 10 all college students of the Michiana area on Tuesday, April 20 at 2:00p.m. 
Only HO tickets remain and are available at the Alcohol Counseling oftke at Psychological Services. The presentation, entitled '"Do I Or My l'riends Drink Too Much?" will be in the Library Auditorium. Ticketof; arc free. 
Sm lfce Kafimwl Road ~f'Wb«cliM iJh 
ANNIE at ffce OmwK 1'lceableiM. Ckicago. -Swcdtuj. A,ue 25 Titkeb $24.00: lftaitt ~ftwct ~&T~ 
Available at Student Union Ticket Office 
~ ~-~-­

Tuesday, April 20, 1982 -page 8 
r---:­
~ 
Football, track 
Pearcy battles injury, indecision 
By Earl Rix season and the indoor trakc down and then work on my Sports Writer season. studies. 
"During those nine months a "Don't get me wrong," says What ever happened to Van lo~ of things went through my Pearcy, 'Academics are a big mmd," says Pearcy, "like 'will part they are really
Pearcy? 
I ever be able to do what I used emphasized around here."
He was supposed to be the 
icing on cake Gerry to?' Now that I'm working out, I By doctor's orders Pearcy is
the for 
Faust's highly acclaimed first think I'll eventually be able to not hitting at all in spring get back.'' football. He is just attempting 
recruiting class. Coming into Pearcy claims his knee is 75 to learn the patterns and plays. 
Notre Dame, the freshman from 
had percent recovered. After nine When Pearcy agreed to come
Andrews, Texas, press 
months of inactivity and here, Faust told him that he "getting fat," Pearcy says he would not have to play spring
Spring Football '82 
still is not in decent shape. In the meantime, he is trying to go to track practice everyday and 
releases that sports information to football practice three times directors drool over -a 4.0 a week. grad~ average, over 3,900 yards "It's not easy," says Pearcy, rushmg, track times including a ''When I get back to the room, 
10.3 100 meters, a 21.2 200, a all I want to do is sleep. You 
46.9 400, and long jump of 24-9 can't really study like you 1/2. should." 
Pearcy now says, "All those In trying to balance football, times are nullifted. It's just a track and schoolwork simul­matter of proving myself all taneously, Pearcy says tht his over again." Pearcy is now grades have been compromised 
trying to come back from a knee the most. He is planning to injury. incur~ed in winning the switch out of Science Pre-­long JUmp m the Texas high professional into Arts and school state championships. Letters Pre-professional. The injury required arthro­''The grades get put down scopic surgery in ) uly and then the most, but that might be my again in December to remove fault, too: That'swhy I'm here damaged cartilage from the at school because of my b~ck of. his kneecap, causing athletics I'm not paying football. "But then I hun my hun to s1t out the entire football anything. I get my athletics knee and everything changed,'' 
says Pearcy, "and I told him that I would come out and learn the system this spring. Next year I'll know the system, and hopefully won't have to play 
· Tourney field narrowed to 'Thirsty 32' 
spring ball." Pearcy does not view himself By Will Hare as a football player who just
8-of-9 shooting and late buckets their height well. We got a Thirty-two teams remains
Sports Wnter happens to play track or vice­
by Don Strumillo sealed the win couple of breaks down the end going into today's action and 
versa. He admits, "It's kind of
for the Rummers, who now and hit a couple short jumpers four-hundred twenty-one teams 
hard to do both extremely well, 
meet "Even Less J acksonless to win it." have been eliminated. 
For those who were at '' but he does think that,Five'' in a classic duel thisBookstore Courts 9 and 10 at "everything you do for track

6:15 last night, they may be afternoon. 
helps your football andsuffering from a minor case of Tony Anderson hit on 7-of-9 everything you do for football
whiplash after trying to watch from the field for ''Even helps your track." 
two side-by-side thrillers. But Less ... " which shot blistering 
a How far Pearcy still has to go 
had they been at Lyons Court 60 percent from the field in before he is in top shape could11, they may be suffering from 21-4 rout of "Nestle's Crunch be seen this weekend at theand ... " heart failure. 
Indiana Intercollegiate TrackBehind the Bookstore, Mike Championships where PearcyMitchell's 9-of-16 shooting was dropped the baton in the 4 x 100BOOKSTORE XI the difference in the victory for 
... meter dash, failed to place in
"Take This Ball and Shove It the 400 meters, but then ran aII,'' which fought off a stubborn good leg on Notre Dame'sIn perhaps the best game of "Strappamasquon ... " squad. 
second-place 1600-meter relay
the 1982 Bookstore Basketball Phil Pozderac and Greg race.
Tournament thus far, "Red Knafelc combined for 14-of-24 Pearcy says he is excitedRummers" fought off a from the field for the losers. 
about playing at the newtremendous comeback to defeat "Showdown" scored more flanker spot, which is a more
"Cornia' at Ya" by a score of points than three prior wide-out version of the deposed 27-25. The contest was plagued opponents of "T.P.S. Again" wingback. Right
by fouls and darkness, yet combined, but not enough to now he says 
his goals are to make the
remained exciting to the fmal beat last year's runner-ups, as traveling team in football and to hoop. they fell 21-15. Chris Brown make the NCAA championshipsNotre Dame quarterback Ken was 6-of-11 to lead the winners. 
in track, next year if not thisKarcher led "Comin' at Ya" Another impressive one, because he considers both
back from an 18-13 deficit to tie performance was turned in by to be "honors in themselves."
the game at 20. Karcher scored ''Shysters'', as they downed The 6-2 175 pounder says,several inside baskets in the "Hill's Angels" by seven. Mike "It's really been a difficultsurge and played tough defense Kelly's outside shooting was situation to be put in to. I'vethat bottled up . former Notre the difference in the game. 
been labelled -I was supposed
Dame hoopster Tim Healy of "We've go five unselfish to do really good. And then the''Red Rummers.'' people," said Kelly, "and we injury comes along, and after .''The key was getting the ball tend to get the ball to the ·guys surgery you can't expect much. 
inside, " said Healy, "but it that are hot." "Hill's Angels," I hate to lose and I have to work was getting out of hand at the a team which finished in the to where I don't lose as much asend." Sweet Sixteen last year, fell I do now."
"Red Rummers" had several down early and could never chances to win the game but make up the difference. three shots from the left corner "Cooz" may have a former by Mike Prevoznik kept "Mr. Bookstore" award winner 
Results from yesterday's

"comin' at Ya" in the thick of in Bob Keenehan but it was games could not be processd
things. But after "Red John Leonard's 1 0-of-15 because of computer
Rummers" fell down 24-23, shooting tha earned their hard malfunctions. They will appearthey scored four of the next five fought victory over "H & S in tomorrow's edition. ­points to clinch the triumph. Realty." "We'reprettysmall," 
The Observer
Mike Frawley's phenomenal stated Leonard, ''and tehy used 
.. 








