
-------~~----~ 
' .Gary Deeb -page 7
' 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 10, 19H2
VOL. XVI, NO. I I~ 
Grace loser claims voting discrepancy 
By MIKE LEPRE 
StuffNeporti!T' 
Christopher Quinn won the (;race llall pn:si<.kntial election Monday night. although his op­ponent, Bill Beck, ~..·ontends that there was a discrepancy in the: balloting process. 
Beck, who lost the election by a two vote margin, claims that the: balloting closed far ahead of the proposed schedule, due to a lack of ballots. The committee that ran the election was alerted against a pos­sible:: shortage of voting materials on the night prior to the run-off, according to Beck. However, when the elections took place the ballots eventually ran out prior to the alotted time. The polls were scheduled to be opened during lunch hours until one o'clock in the afternoon as well as during dinner until six-thirty. Beck observed that although he was not present at the time, the polls were closed 
"sometime between twelve and twelve-thirty." Beck went on to say that he knows of"a lot ofpeople that did not get to vote because of these cirumstances." 
Brother George Klawitter, the head staff representative to the group in c_hargc of the election procedures, saw the event different­ly. Klawitter was informed by the judicial Board that the lunch ballot­ing closed "around twelve forty­five," and the dinner balloting was opened for· the entire amount of time stipulated by hall regulations. 
Although he feels that Quinn "would certainly do an excellent job for Grace Hall," Beck believes that the closeness of such an important election should merit a balloting procedure that is "handled more professionally." 
Out ofthe 564 Grace Hall reidents eligible to vote in Monday's run-off, just 352 actually cast ballots, two of which were determined to be in­valid. 
Fifty-percent plus one of the offi­cial ballots cast were needed for a particular candidate to win the elec­tion, bringing the required number of votes to I76. Quinn earned this exact percentage ofthe vote. 
While Beck is hopeful that his claim is considered by the ]-board, the election's outcome will remain for now. 
Although Kiwatter is aware of Be­ck's assenions, he does not "see any irregularities in the voting proce­dure," and feels that as far as he can 

CBS correspondent Harry Reasoner (left) and 
see "right now there is no indication 

Notre Dame President, Fr. Theodore Hesburgh
of our desire to reopen the elec­

(right) talk with students during Reasoner's visit 
tion." 

to the Notre Dame campus last fall. Reasoner was 
-··~·:.:::..., ...\;. 
here to film a segment for "60 Minutes," which is scheduled to air Sunday (March 14) on CBS-7V. (Photo by Information Services) 

local 60 Minutes controversy continues 
By MICHELE DIETZ 
Senior StaffReporter 
Many say they haven't seen it but have heard a lot about it. Several who have seen it refuse to comment. A few are still receiving letters. The controversy concerning the 60 Minutes segment of Fr. Richard McBrien, Theology Department Chairman at Notre Dame, and his comments on the Vatican continues. 
On February 21, 60 Minutes presented "Inside the Vatican," a ponrayal of life at the Vatican and a commentary on Pope John II. 

Student shoplifting charges increase 
By MICHM.L WILKINS 
StaffReporter 
Shoplifting involving Notre Dame 
students is a bigger problem this 
year than ever before for the Univer­
sity, according to Dean of Students 
james Roemer. 
"It's been a rather different phenomenon. The shoplifting has occured at a much greater level this year than in previous years," Roemer stated. "I would estimate that there have been at least ten situations where students have been apprehended shoplifting at Martin's supermarket alone in the current academic year." 
The shoplifting has not just been occuring at Martin's but all over the community surrounding the univer­sity. The problem includes students who leave restaurants without paying the bill and normally in­volves less that S I 0. "I don't think that the reason for the Notre Dame shoplifting situation is an economic one," Roemer added. 
So far, the police and prosecutor have been willing to let Notre Dame lkal with the offenders. But Roemer feels that ifthe problem continues to become more severe, shoplifters will be: dealt with more strictly by officials. 
"At any point in time if this 
process doesn't work: the police and prosecutor will determine that the system of handling shoplifters will have to be changed and they will decide that offenders will have to be taken through the criminal justice system," Roemer commented. 
The problems from shoplifting are more serious than just being ap­prehended for a criminal offense, Roemer notes. Being arrested can cause the student hardships not only now, but in the future as well. Stu-' dents arrested for shoplifting may find trouble getting into any kind of graduate school or even in being hired for a job when the job applica­tion asks If the applicant has ever been arrested. 
But there are problems that are even more important than that, Roemer feels. "It reflects a lot on the integrity ofthat person. I think that's an important thing for a person to consider in the the process ofmatur­ing and getting ready to accept responsibility outside the university community." 
Shoplifters who are turned over to Roemer arc assigned a certain nuJ:Q­ber ofhours of work, either at Notre Dame or in the greater South Bend community, according to the severity of their offenses. A social justice sanction is not forced on the person, however. That person may 
See LIFflNG, page 4 
Besides a few members of the papal bureacracy and the Pope himself, all of whom said very little, McBrien was the sole guest speaker. 
CBS still gets letters about it. Har-

WEDNESDAY­
---FOCUS; 
ry Reasoner's secretary, jean Dudasik, couldn't reveal any num­bers but said "there has been a great deal of concern from conservative traditional Catholics" and that they have received a lot of mail. One of these letters, read ·the following week on 60 Minutes, said that with people like McBrien, the Pope doesn't need enemies. 

Fr. Hesburgh's secretary has also received a good bit of mail in response to the segment. McBrien himself has received about 50 let­ters, most of which are negative, but was afraid there would be many more. 
Commenting on the excessive secrecy of the Vatican, the Pope's alienation of many Catholics, espe­cially women, and his deficient un­derstanding of the U.S. Catholic experience, McBrien spoke for many liberal Catholics, according to Reasoner. 
"We have an obligation to present the best possible image of who we are and if the church seems to be secretive, double-dealing, Mac­hiavellian, defensive, then It gives the impression that we have got something to hide," McBrien said on the program. 

"We are not different from any other political or economic opera­tion. We don't have to open our books, have our leaders available for interviews with the press...this is nonsense ifwe admit we're the body of Christ and we are sinners, as well." 
In regard to the position of women in the Church, McBrien said: 
See REASONER, page 4 

Junior Parents Weekend 
Bego rejectsphonydiscount claims 
By CAROL CAMP 
StaffReporter 

According to Junior Parents Weekend Hotel Coordinator Kathy Bego, allegations that a junior's parents stayed at the South Bend Marriott and did not receive a guaranteed discount are groundless. 
In the information packet that was sent to juniors concerning the weekend, a list of possible ac­comodations that were available in the South Bend area was included. Before compiling this list, theJunior Parents Weekend committee made arrangements with thirteen local 
''Ihaven 'thadanybody 
come up to me andtell me that they didn 't like 

the Marriott. ' ' 
hotels to block offsections ofrooms 
so that they would be available for 
the weekend. 
Two of these hotels, the Americana and the Day's Inn Motel, offered parents a 20 percent and a I 0 percent discount, respectively, providing that the individuals iden­tified themselves as parents of mem­

bers of the junior class at the time 
they made their reservations. Al­
though the Marriott initially offered 
a discount, the offer was withdrawn, 
and the committee quoted the ·.hotel's regular winter rates. 
"I haven't had anybody come up 

to me and tell me that they didn't 
like the Marriott. They were one of the most cooperative hotels. that l worked with, and their sales pitch­was much better than most of the other hotels," Bego commented. 
She added that parents will have an opponunity to comment on the quality of their accomodations for the weekend in a questionnaire that is presently being prepared for dis­tribution. 


Studentdocument~ premiers this Thursday 
By LAUREL-ANN DOOLEY 
News Staff 

The documentary film Keepers ofthe Fire, produced by students in the Film and Video Production course: in conjunction with the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Department of Communications/Theater, premiers Thursday at 8 p.m. in Annenbcrg Auditorium. 
The film depicts the arrival and construction of the sculpture be­hind the Century Center which was erected in the St. Joseph river in 1980. 
"This was the first such production course ever offered here at the University, and not even halfway through the semester the students were involved in a full-blown documentary," said COTH Depart­ment Chairman Mitchdl Lifton. 
Lifton added that students encountered many problems in making the film. "We had no knowledge about the sculpture and therefore had very little time to write a script," he explained. 


' . 
-,.---,.---·---­





NewsBrie.IJ 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
A top Democratsought to persuade the Senate yester­day to censure rather than expel Harrison A. Williams Jr., but Republican Leader Howard Baker said there was "almost no sup­port" among the majority GOP to soften the punishment. "The odds don't look good," said Sen. Daniel Inouye, the Hawaii Democrat who has been Williams' chiefdefender in the Senate. As he walked to the Senate chamber for the fourth day ofdebate on the expulsion resolu­tion, Inouye said he didn't know if Williams had been able to sway any senators with his defense. "I think it will be an expulsion vote," said Howell Heflin ofAlabama, the Ethics committee vice chairman. He said he felt senators "have not bought (Williams') argument on this." Yesterday Heftin resumed a detailed rebuttal ofthe NewJersey Democrat's principal line of defense -that the FBI framed him in the Abscam bribery and conspiracy case for which he was convicted last year. -AP 
. 
The Reagan ad.ministra~on took the unusual step yesterday of releasing photographs taken by U.S. reconnais­sance aircraft depicting what it said was a massive Soviet and Cuban­backed military buildup in Nicaragua The buildup outlined by two top intelligence officials was portrayed as far more than Nicaragua requires for its legitimate defense needs and as posing a threat to neighboring countries. One of the officials, Deputy CIA director Adm. Bobby Inman, said the disclosures were the first in a series aimed at providing the evidence on which the administration is basing its policies in Central America. Details about Cuban­Nicaraguan cooperation in funneling arms t<>{ebels in El Salvador will be released later in the week, Inman suggested. Inman andJohn Hughes, deputy director ofthe defense Intelligence Agency, alleged that since the leftist government took power in 1979, 36 new military garrisons have been established in Nicaragua, all modeled along Soviet and Cuban lines. -AP 
Scientists say doomsday won't come today as predicted in The jupiter Effect, a book which said eight years ago that the alignment of the Solar system on March 10, 1982, would trigger a worldwide wave of earthquakes. The planets are forming themselves into a group within a 90-degree angle. All the planets will line up on the same side of the sun and come the closest to each other for the first time since 949 AD. And today marks the closest they will be for the next 510 years. On that day, ifthe sun were at the 

center ofa giant clock, Neptune would be at about 12 and the Earth at about 3:15, with the others scattered in between. "The Jupiter Effect" contended that the combined convitational forces of the nine aligned planets would spark extraordinary solar activity that would send a flood ofcharged particles racing toward Earth, throw­ing the planet's rotation off and agitating already unstable geologic regions. -AP 
President Reagan, pleading for support ofhis record­deficit, defense-oriented budget, disavowed yesterday any blame for "the displeasures" of recession but privately assured Republican senators that interest rates will drop markedly within months. The president said he was informed by Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker that "the prime rate will drop by three or four points by summer," according t congressional source who asked not to be named. Later, a White House source, who also declined identifica­tion, confirmed the account ofthe president's remarks, but said that when Reagan talked with Volcker the prime rate stood at 17 percent. It already has dropped to 16 percent. Thus, this source said, the prediction actually is for a further reduction of two or three points. Volcker, who as chief of the central bank wields great power over policies affecting interest rates, couldn't be reached immediately for comment. -AP 
Charles J. Haughey regained control of Ireland's government yesterday, defeating incumbent Prime Minister Garret FitzGerald in a parliamentary ballot after inconclusive nationwide elections. With the support offive non-aligned lawmakers, includ­ingfour socialists, the 56-year-old Haughey was elected prime minis­ter by a vote of 86-79 in the Dail, the lower house of Parliament. FitzGerald's seven-month-old coalition government fell in January in the throes of Ireland's worst economic crisis since the state was founded in 1921. Haughey was prime minister for 18 months before being ousted by FitzGerald in June 1981. Cheers and loud applause rang out in the Dail as Haughey's election was announced after weeks ofbackroom maneuvering among the major political parties. 
-AP 
Plans to constructa memorial to Vietnam veterans in Washington, already delayed by a controversy over its design, ran into a new snag yesterday. The Fine Ans Commission, a government agency, sent a letter to Interior Secretary James Watt declining to give its advance approval ofthe addition ofa flagpole and ofa larger­than-life statue ofa soldier until it sees the plans for those new ele­ments. Watt, whose approval is also required before work on the monument can stan, told the commission last month he first needed assurances that the statue and flagpole would be acceptable. The additions were proposed in January as a compromise between sup­porters and critics of the original design. The critics attacked the design as a political statement of shame and dishonor. They were supported in a letter from a group of Republican congressmen to Presi dent Reagan. The original design calls for two long walls of black granite, bearing the names ofAmericans killed and missing in Vietnam, coming together in the shape ofa V. The monument is to be built in a park between the Lincoln Memorial and the Washington Monument. -AP 

Partly sunnythis afternoon with highs in the upper 4os. Panly cloudy tonight with a 30 percent chance ofshowers late. Lows . around 40. Chance of showers again tomorrow with highs in the 
upper 40s. -AP 

Wednesday, March 10, 1982-page 2 
Atlanta case leaves questions 
Last September, a man came to the Observer office and claimed that he had information proving the in­nocence of Wayne Williams, who was recently con­victed for two of twenty-eight "child murders" in Atlanta All names will be withheld from the informa­tion that follows. 
The man offered "documented evidence" that the Ku 
Klux Klan is actually responsible for all twenty-eight of 
the killings, and have implemented a plan to frame Wil­
liams for the crimes. He described himself as a 
"visionary", and said he wanted The Observer to write a 
story about him to make the public aware of the 
"Atlanta cover-up" and the evidence that supports that 
allegation. 
He said he decided to come to us with his informa­
tion because "The Observer has a reputation for raising 
questions of national importance." 
He identified himself as a free-lance photographer 
raised in South Bend who participated in Notre Dame's 
Upward Bound program and later attended college in 
Colorado. His last residence was in Los Angeles. 
This man bore a striking resemblance to Williams. He 
was average height, heavy-set, and had a round face 
with hairstyle and facial characteristics similar to Wil­
liams'. 

both agreed that he 1>hould make record of everything he saw and heard. He taped one of these "visions" and took it to the influential owner ofa popular Los Angeles radio station. 
The radio station owner described the visionary as a man with "serious emotional problems", who wanted financial assistance so that he could travel to Atlanta and investigate the murders. 
The owner noted that the information provided was vague, and he refused to assist the informer financially. The informer returned several times, until finally the owner "asked that he not return." 
The informer said he then sold his cameraequipment to cover expenses and travelled to Atlanta He was the guest of an Atlanta Congressonal representative for a few days, during which he said he offered to assist the Atlanta police department in the investigation. The rep­resentative requested that he leave after he asked an­other houseguest for a gun. 
The informer travelled to Texas to research the 
operation of the Klan. He also investigated the govern­ment's involvement in the case, concluding that "Reagan wanted the case closed as soon as possible to avoid a situation like the Miami riots in 1980," which may have caused Atlanta police to act prematurely in arresting Williams. 


He cited a speech Vice-President George Bush made in Atlanta praising the "capture ofthe murderer" before Williams' trial, which he believes influenced the public against Williams. 
The representative observed that the informer "drew on politics" to pinpoint the Klan in the murders, adding that he didn't draw on all available information sources. "Most of his allegations are based on research rather than prophecy," the legislator said. "His 'visions' show him that there is police corruption -his research 
convinces him that 

His "evidence" included a series of visions which ·he claimed began May 13. These visions revealed the murder in progress, accord­ing to the informer, who added that he was able to hear what was taking place. He "saw" two white males who he recognized as mem­bers of the Klan taking a body from a van to a river. He noted that one of the men was wearing an iden­tification bracelet, and boasted about "how easy it was to kill the little niggers." 
The informer said he was with a friend when this vi­sion took place, and they Atlanta area," he said. 
"Police seem to have ignored the unsolved murders of 38 girls (whose deaths coincided with those of the males) which were never considered part of Atlanta's murdered children case. We've really got a bigger problem here than is getting attention." One of the 197 witnesses who testified in the Williams case claimed to be a free-lance photographer who believed that police mistook him for Williams at the murder site ofTerry Pue. The photographer said that he bore a close resemblance to Williams, .1 and was at the Rockdale site where police found Pue onJanuary 23, 1981. 
The 'visionary' stopped coming to the Observer office after he was told that his information could not be verified. He said that he may write a book about his experiences, and "make a million dollars," which he of­fered to split with me. I declined. I think enough prices have been paid in this ordeal, and within a few months people may begin to think that these prices have been paid by someone who did not owe them in the first place. 

Design Editor .......... The Ghost ofNo Doz Design Assistants .......... Mike McCaughey Layout Staff. ................................ Mike Quill Typesetters .......................... jim Maclennan Bob judge Ray lnglin News Assistant ....................... Dave Sarphie Copy Editors .................. Maureen O'Toole Michele Dietz Features Layout....................... Tari & Greg Sports Copy Editor ............. Dave Dziedzic Typists ..................................... Laura Degnan Mary Beth Porter ND Day Editor .............~ ......joe Musumeci SMC Day Editor............... Toni Rutherford Ad Design ................................... john & Mag Photographer ......................... Cheryl Enell Guest Appearances ............... Man and dog 
Stream Fever 
C.Q &S.T. Typeseuer's special 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys Col· lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wntmg The Observer. P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associ.ted Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. indiana 46556 


some 
element of the KKK is 
responsible for the deaths of 
the children. In terms of his 
spiritual gift to prophesize, I 
doubt it seriously." 
A reporter with an Atlanta newspaper also cor­responded with the infor­mer, noting that he believed the informer was a visionary "not knowledgeable on the facts ofthe case." "He seems to want publicity -I don't know why." 
The reporter added that "the murders are still going on in Atlanta" "Shortly after the Safe Summer '81 program, 3 young black girls were found strangled in the 


Judge the patentability of scientific and engineering dis­coveries made by R& D engineers, inventors, and scientists world wide as a 
Patent Examiner in Washington, D.C. The Patent and Trademark Office offers unique career opportunities with • Challenge and responsibility • Career growth • Outstanding career Federal Government service benefits 
For more information about a career 
as a Patent Examiner contact: 
., Manager, College Relations 57-202 ..;::;:::;] : Personnel, CP2-9C05 1\J ~ Patent and Trademark Office ~ ~~ 
Washington, D.C. 20231 t> •.,,.,..•.,,.... Call toll-free: 800-368-3064 · 
(703) 557-7626 Wash., D.C. area 
An Equal Opportunity Employer mit • U.S. Citizenship Required 

The Observer Wednesday, March 10, 1982-page 3 
Cocaineoverdose? 


Friends, relatives buryBelushi 
Tom Pilot, a 1965 .'Votre Dame xruduate. told JIPC members 
about his 11ew restaurant, Raffer~y·s, lot-·ated in the East Bank Cen­
ter. (photo bv Cberyl Erte/t) 

ampus study group discussedin HPC 
By CAROL CAMP 
.51<1/fReporter 
l>t:talls concerning the trip that the campus study group will be makin~ during sprin~ break to compare and contrast aspects of so­cial life at ~otre Dame with that of other major universitic:s dominated discussion at h1st ni~ht's HPC meeting in Alumni Hall. 
According to Student Body President Don Murday, the group's mcmht·r1> include Student Activities Director Jim McDonnell, Pangborn PresidentJohn Gallagher, lewis President Maureen Burns, and Murday himself. They will be visiting several universities, induding Northwestnn and Duke, whose enrollment t1gures arc comparable to those of Notre Dame, in order to examine "all aspects 
ofstudent life." 
In addition to t•valuating the universities' student centers, the 
group will consider other academic and social aspects which are of 
interest to students. The group is exploring several factors pertain· 
ing to the overall quality ofstudent life, because they realize, accord­
ing to :\llurday, tha< "a new student center is only one part of the 
solution." 
Tht· group is making this trip as part of a three-fold presentation concerning student life at Notre Dame which will be made by Mur· day to the Board of Trustees at their May 6 meeting. Other com­ponents of the presentation include a survey concerning which aspn·ts ofa student center have the greatest appeal to the members of the !ttudcnt body. and an independent study which will examine the dements that are lacking in the overall social life at the Univer­sity. 
Tht· independent study is being conducted with the cooperation of Dr. lincoln Johnson, graduate-director of research of Notre Dame's Sociology department. The individual dorm presidents will assist study coordinator Dave Murday by interviewing a cross­section ofstudents in their respective halls about social life at Notre Dame. 
Murday assured HPC members of the administration's intention to "look at this report as objectively as they can." · 
In otht·r business, Student Government Treasurer designee John Eichenlaub discussed the provisions of a proposed amendment to the Student Govt·rnment constitution which would add the Student llnion comptroller as a member of the Senate Budget Committee which allocates student activity fees between the Student Govern­mt·nt, Student Union, HPC, and the Off-Campus Commission. In order to become a part ofthe Student Government constitution, the proposal must now ht· ratified by two-thirds of the hall councils. 
IIPC announced that anyone interested in having his protrait done can do so by signing up in his own dorm by March 23. The package, which i1> hein~ oflcred by Harrison Photography via Sorin Hall, leatures one Hx I0. one Sx7, and llve wallet-size photographs for a total cost of S 15. SO. Portraits will be made:: March 28-April I from 
I pm-9pm t•ach day. Sorin Hall will usc the proceeds from the:: sale to t·stahlish a scholarship fund for freshmen. For more information. contact Larry Nardolillo at HSHS. 
Another announcemt·nt recognized Walsh Hall as the recipient of the Smnkr Award for the second time this year. The hall was recogniznl li1r its "Wild Wabh Week" ;Ktivitics. which included icc skating, a scrcw-vour-roomatc. a hall dinner. and secret swccthcarts wnh St. Ed's. Clo:.e contcntlers for this month's Sowder Award honoC1> indudcd Zahm. StanliJrd. ;md Holy Cross halls. 
~-------------­
..J.~ V.J' .Li TLU :.lf.JrJi;\' Ni 


'181' 

Off-Campus Storage 
ovPr Spring Break in Stepan 
Tues. Mar. 9 2-4 pm 
Wed.Mar.10 2-4pm 

For more info. ca/1277-8839 Sponsored by O.C. Commission 
~----.~---------­
VINEYARD HAVEN, Mass. (AP)­With Dan Aykroyd riding to the gravesite on a motorcycle and.James Taylor mournfully singing "That Lonesome Road," comedian .John Belushi was buried yesterday in a gentle snowfall on an island offCape Cod. 
Meanwhile in los Angeles, wh~re Belushi died last Friday, report~ surfaced that his death may have been caused by a cocaine overdose. 
"We can hear the call of his solitary warning: 'wise up!'" the Rev. Ilia Katre of Boston's Holy Trinity Church told the 200 friends and relatives who gathered at a church on Martha's Vineyard for a 45­minute service and briefeulogy. 
The phrase, "Wise up!" was a trademark of the 33-year-old Belushi, whose manic comedy made him a star of TV's "Saturday Night live" and then such motion pictures as "Animal House." 
Among the mourners who gathered on the overcast, chilly morning at the Congregational church were Belushi's wife, .Judith, his parents, comedian Bill Murray and producer Lorne Michaels, who worked with Belushi on the hit NBC late-night comedy show. 
lee Salters, Belushi's New York publicist, said the comedian chose to be buried on the island where he owned a summer home because "it was the one place he really slept 

Foreignprogramsschedule first everlast call sessions 
By DIANE DIRKERS 
News Staff 
For the first time ever, there will 
be a last call session for those stu­
dents interested in any foreign 
programs, according to Dr. Charles 
Parnell, Notre Dame Director of 
Foreign Studies: The meeting will 
take place at 7 p.m. tonight in 
O'Shaughnessy's faculty lounge. 
Parnell particularly emphasized 
the Far East Program in Taiwan, 
where classes are taught in English 
and prior knowledge of Japanese is 
not necessary. 
Lack of participation has always been a detriment to the Taiwan program, since its inception in 1965. "There are a billion Chinese­speaking people in this world, and Notre Dame is barely involved with that culture," Parnell said. 
The program is currently under suspension for the 1981-82 school year due to lack of interest. Present­ly, there are five Notre Dame stu­dents planning to participate in the 
1982-83 session, as well as 12 from 
Penn State University and the Uni­
versity ofConnecticut. 
The first month of the program entails intensive Chinese instruc­tions held at Fu-Jen University, a Catholic University in the suburbs of Tai-Pai. In September, students go 
begin their first semester ofstudy. 
Stqdents interested in the Far East program or any other foreign program can come to the last call meeting so that their applications can still be considered. 
well." "Seriously, he's always really loved it here," said Salter. 
The funeral service wa-; per­formed by two Albanian Orthodox priests with soft organ music and the smell of incense in the small, tradi­tional New England church. Belushi's parents emigrated from Al­bania. 
The los Angeles Times reported Tuesday that a source in the coroner's office said Belushi died of complications from a cocaine overdose. ABC News also reported that sources said a drug overdose killed him, and said the drug was "probably cocaine." 
The los Angeles coroner's office declined to comment on the reports, saying only that the autopsy and other tests have becn incon­clusive. 
Belushi's nude body was found Friday on a bed in a S200-a-day bun­galow he had rented at the Chateau Marmont Hotel in los Angeles. He was in California to film a comedy, "Noble Rot." 
ABC also said Belushi, a heavy smoker, was believed to have been suffering from a respiratory disease. 


The Observer Wednesday, March 10, 1982-page 4­

Academics or business? 

Whitman compares careers 
By MEGAN BOYLE said, "you have to be per:.uasive. You Because the "business world is StaffReporter can't talk in economic jargon and get forged in academics and controlled anywhere." by government," she feels she can 
"I was 15 before I found 'o\lt girls Dr, Whitman stressed the practi-fill the role of "ambassador." be­weren't supposed to do the same tal constraints on business saying, tween the different worlds. Accord­things as boys. And by then it was "academics can choose the relevant ing to Whitman, it is this "dialogue too late to change," said Marina · issue of analysis. In government and with the outside world" that enables Whitman, vice-president and chief business, you don't have that a company like General Motors to economist for General Motors, in .a luxury." increase productivity. Distinguished American Women A graduate of Radcliffe and . Whitman answered questions Series lecture last night. in the library Columbia University, Whitman sees from women in the audience on auditorium. herself as simultaneously, "an in-topics ranging from the future ofthe 
"1 went from being a freak to sider and outsider'' in the corporate American auto industry to the being a role model," Dr. Whitman works of General Motors. "For an problems of combining career and noted as .she explained her old line, midwestern manufacturing motherhood. "freakish" career as an economist in company that largely grows its own Whitman predicted "very sig­the academic, government and the executives," Whitinan considers her nificant changes in the auto in­corporate world. Never too far from .appointment as vice-president rare. dustry" in the future. "The Iranian her beginnings as an academic, "I am an anomaly,"· she said. crisis caught G-M with its pants Whitman attempted, "in the immor-Despite."the extra burden of ac­down," said Whitman, but added tal words of the final exam, to ceptance,'' she must overcome at G­that steps are being taken to reduce compare and contrast,"· the three M, Whitman uses her unique the the lead time necessary to alter 
Dr. Marina Whitman, vice president and chief economist of

distinct career paths she haS background co bridge the gaps be­auto manufacturing as economic 
General Motors, spoke last night in tbe Library Auditorium aspart

followed in a little more than twenty tween business, government and the conditions dictate.
'· ofthe Distinguished Women Series. (photo by Cheryl Ertelt) 
years. academic world. 
-Whitman said that "despite all the ========================================================== 
verbal brickbats between govern-. ment and the corporat~ world," they are much more similar than either is 
...Reasoner 
like the academic world. While "the university is the last 

continuedfrom page 1 Referring to his comparison of C.S.C., said, "I suspect that the "jazz things up." 
frontier ofthe individual," Whitman john Paul II and Pope John XXIII, he remarks on 60 Minutes were taken Sr. Elaine DesRosiers, Director offound the achievements in govern­·"One ofthe most serious crises is the said that he was taken out ofcontext, out ofa larger discussion with Harry · Educational Media, was in charge ofment and the world ofbusiness were growing alienation of good women giving viewers the false impression Reasoner. My impression is that Fr. presenting the videotape of 60"inevitably collective." "It's not from the Church. These women are that he was attacking the Pope. "But McBrien did not intend to be Minutes last Sunday. She said sheenough to be smart or right," she not losing faith but losing con­you can't ignore the fact that as a negative. agrees very much on Fr. McBrien's fidence in the Church to develop young man he (Pope John Paul II) "I think Catholics have to get used statements on women in the not only as human beings but as was in acting." He added, "You have to the fact that we're a minority in Church. She also said that the Pope,

.. . Lifting 

Christians. to be realistic -not every person is American society. We have to "comin6 from a country where "The Pope's understanding of the doing the best job as Pope." choose between living American freedom isn't experienced, doesn't 
U.S. Catholic experience is one area McBrien also said that his com­dreams of a secular culture and understand the freedom Americans
continuedfrompage 1 

where his uqderstanding is probably ments on the secrecy of the Vatican having to live a very deliberate have, particularly American choose to do work around campus, most seriously deficient. Someday were taken out of context. "The Christian life!' religious women." such as setting up chairs in the ACC, there is going to be women bishops, point is that right wing Catholics got The 60 Minutes presentation, When asked if he had any further or he or she may choose to do such and someday down the road, a long that segment and looked at it as an now on videotape in the CCE, was suggestions for the Pope, Fr. things as paint a house or tutor a road maybe to be sure, there will be attack on the Pope," he said. "The shown to a group ofthose interested McBrien said, "I'd like to see the child somewhere in South Bend. a woman Pope." Speaking onJohn Vatican bureacracy has been there last Sunday night. Those present Pope bring together his admirable 
Roemer also permits students to Paul II in general, McBrien said that long before John Paul II became responded afterwards. ). D'Arcy concern for human rights outside 
develop their own ideas for work of all the Popes in this century, the Pope." He explained that he was Chisholm, Administator-Consultant the Church, Le., Poland, with a con­
sanctions, if the students so choose. truly revolutionary Pope of this age sympathizing with CBS and the for the Center for Pastoral and Social cern for human rights inside the 
Students may consult with com­will be John XXIII, not John Paul Il media who has to deal with this Ministry, commented, saying he Church. There should be be a better 
munity leaders to help them form­He said the spontaneity of)ohn Paul bureacracy. thought McBrien's views were consistency between foreign policy 
ulate a program of work that they II· is a "more studied spontaneity" McBrien claimed that all of the "reasoned, precise and said with and domestic policy."
feel will be rewarding to them. and that he is "self-conscious of the reactions he received from the clarity and concern." He added, "The Pope is too tradi­
Roemer is constantly looking for impact he is making on a crowd." Notre Dame community were One student, Paul Somelo1iike, tional on matters of internal Church more effective punishments. "I am McBrien attributed this to the fact positive. He also said that the angry said that McBrien was "more or less affairs. He's got to be a little more continuously talking to professional that the Pope used to be in acting. letters and phone calls he received attacking the person (Pope John flexible. The Pope reflects his own people and trying to find new met­These statements on the Pope were unfair. "I did not and would at­Paul·II) and not the office!' He experience of Catholicism in East­hods that are effective in fighting seemed an attack to many viewers. tack the Pope. I would criticize him added, "The Pope has a private life ern Europe. It is completely dif­this problem," Roemer said. "I ap­Although not complaining about the but not attack him" too." ferent in the United States or in preciate any advice on how to 60 Minutes presentation, McBrien There were, however, some un­President Theodore Hesburgh Africa Unity doesn't require you to 
handle the situation and find other 

said he was twice taken out of con­favorable views within the Notre also commented on McBrien's uniformity."solutions to the problem. text. Dame community. Those within the presentation: "The points he made The presentation, now on ~..............................,,,,,,,,,,,,,~ Theology Department who were fairly fresh and unobtrusive." videotape in the CCE, can be viewed 
responded all agreed with McBrien's He said it was an interesting by request for those interested. 
views or refused to comment. program but that most shows try to

I JUNIORS I 
Outside of the Theology Depart­ment, support was not as widespread. 

~ OurSeniorTriptoLosAngeles ~ Campussecuritydirector
Fr. james McGrath, C.S.C., As­sociate Chairman of Biology, said he

1willbe November 24-28, 1982 1 stressessafetyawareness
thought the segment was "very 
poor." He saw McBrien as a 

who "bad­mouthing" the Pope. "This doesn't By VIC SCIULLI in December with Padgett, pointed make Notre Dame look good," 
I TotalCostWillBe S375 1"publicist" was 
Senior StaffReporter out that the " it will never happen to McGrath said. attitude is a bad one, adding
I INCLUDES: I me " 
Fr. Charles Weiher, C.S.C., asst. Sever..al weeks ago, a program on · that women are too unprecautious professor of Philosophy, said, "I safety awareness was held in six of about their safety on campus.
~ -chartered plane to and from L.A. ~ 
the eight women's dorms on

I -4 nights at Sheraton Town House ~ (McBrien) was rehearsing his campus. The program, organized by The fact that the programs, held favorite themes. It quite definitely Student Senator Clare Padgett and between February 15-18, were ~ indowntownL.A. cast the Pope in a negative light." Security Director Rex Rakow poorly attended added to the belief 
thoroughly disagreed. I think he 

~ em­Fr. John Burke, C.S.C., professor of phasized the importance of increas­that many women are apathetic

~ -ticket to ND-USC football game ~ 
Mathematics, said "We hear it dis­ing women's awareness of their about their own safety. 
cussed a lot in Corby Hall. Many are personal safety. 

~ -rent-a-car with unlimited mileage ~ 
hesitant to comment because they The program, which featured a Rakow felt that an increase in ~ for every group of 4. . ~-~ feel very strongly and don't want to slide and tape presentation on rape awareness would reduce the num­say anything." prevention, emphasized the impor­ber ofrobberies which occur in the 
tance of total awareness of one's

~ -plus more!!! ~ One member within the Theology dorms. Residents often do not ques­Department who did see the surroundings at all times. Rakow, tion strangers walking through the~ I presentation, Fr. Robert Krieg, halls. These strangers often walk in
who began working on the program


I A $50 non-refu~dable deposit II willbe collectedon \ I I March.24and 25 II ~ 
~ I

1 only 500places available ~ 
~ I 
~........,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,...,,~ 
..,. 


STEVE ROSS, Democratic candidate for US Congress, 
will speak on the failure of Reaganomics in addressing the problems of the Third Congressional District on Wednesday, March 10 at 7:30 in the Lafortune Little Theater. 
and out of unlocked dorms com­pletely unnoticed by residents, taking with them watches, rings, wallets and other valuables. 
Because Rakow and Padgett believe that the issue of security is an important one, they will continue to work on awareness programs in the future. "How to Say No to a Rapist and Survive", a film showing the techniques of avoiding rape will be shown twice in the weeks follow­ingbreak 

---~----­







Editorials 
Wednesday, March 10, 1982-page 5 

Spring cleaning : Emily, Nestle & The Observer 
Another year in Observer time has come to a close, another administra­tion will take over after break, and this occasions the second annual Housecleaning Column, in which the proverbial notebook is cleansed of 
ideas and suggestions which never made it into columns of their own. Here's the mish-mash... 
As Emily Litella (Gilda Radner) would have said, "What's all this fuss I keep hearing about boycotting Nestle? What's wrong with their candy bars anyway? And I think their powdered tea is very nice," etc., until Chevy Chase would inter­rupt her to say that the actual issue discussed was an important one, that she had misheard the original editorial, and Emily of course would deliver the famous punchline. 
This is not to beliule the efforts of the World Hunger Coalition, which campaigned sincerely and ag­gressively, but the importance of this issue in the context of the 1980s ­
the Nuclear Age -is lost on me. Nestle defended itself quite admirab­ly during its recent lobby, all wining and dining aside, and even though the boycott remains a worthwhile gesture by the students, the matter of American students attacking a Swiss company for uncertain offenses in the Third World seems strangely in­congruous. Is this the example of student activism in the Eighties? The issue is certainly a legitimate one, but why have students chosen this one when there are so many ofseemingly more importance? Why, when our federal government is selling nuclear arms to every totalitarianist regime that comes down the pike, friend or foe, while building itself up to obscenely muscular levels? When the machinery to begin mandatory in­duction of college-age men into the military is being reconstructed and reignited? Or locally, when our own college administration is frustrating­ly deaf to pleas for help regarding our miserable social life? 1 just don't 
know-it seems our efforts might be better directed elsewhere. I voted for the boycott, but I'm not too certain 
I'd attend a Nestle press conference. Sorry Simon .... 
One last observation on Nestle: John McGrath's claim that The Ob­server objectively and fairly covered the issue is patently absurd. News coverage was clearly (if not inten­tionally) slanted, and the editorial page was openly lopsided in favor of the boycott. Example: the front page 
article  on  the  INFACT/Nestle  
debate,  which  was  written  like  a  
lecture  article,  quoting  only  IN­ 
FACT  representatives  and  their  

views in the first four paragraphs. The story failed to mention that, by all accounts, the Nestle representatives embarrassed IN­FACT, so bad that the NO ad­mm•stration initially refused to re-show the video tape of the event. The Observer has shamelessly promoted itself this year, sometimes incorrectly.... 
Perfect epigram to the most recent column on the anachronistic nature ofconservatism: • 'The dogmas of the quiet past are inadequate to the stormy present. As our situation is new, so must our thinking be new.'' -Abraham Lincoln·.... 
A final note on The Observer, while we're on the subject. First of all, in the interests of New Jour­nalism, the reader should be in­formed that I have not had any official function on the paper since October (other than filling this space every two weeks), so I feel the paper can be judged objectively, and I think many will agree with the ob­servations that follow. 
The Observer is at an important crossroads right now. For the third straight year, it has elected an editor­in-chief whose background and train­ing comes mainly from the production side of the newspaper. 
That's fine, as long as an editorially know led gable person oversees the operation at some point, such as managing editor. However, this year's managing editor was superseded and interfered with, and the new managing editor is also a production-trained person. 

-This·w~uld all be fine, too, except that it means the paper's current priorities will probably remain un­changed, and the overall quality of content will continue to decline. At The Observer the main priority is on getting the paper out as fast as pos­sible: success is judged by how the fast the paper is laid out and pasted up, instead of by the excellence and accuracy of the copy. Of course, nobody likes to stay up all night producing a newspaper, but undue haste has led to countless headline misspellings, sloppy editing and a general disregard for the quality of the finished product. The desire to publish a flawless paper has been 

by the desire to finish-fast 
-and payday, formerly an unimpor­tant event at The Observer, is now the main incentive to work at the paper for many_ There are excep­tions, but their number is few. There are those who talk of perfection, and those who actually work for it. 
But the production department, which controls the paper, is hardly the only one to blame for the plung­
.ing quality of the newspaper. Not by a long shot. The news reporting has been miserable, the copy editing even worse. Only the sports page has shown improvement, but like the news pages it has at times suffered from lack of timeliness. The result is an unfortunate Catch-22 for The Ob­server -its crossroads. The quality of the paper has fallen so much that many of the best writers and intel­lects on campus simply will not con­tribute because they don't want to assOciate with it. It takes a certain amount of guts to sign one's name to 

Tom Jaclqnan 
any publication with such wide cir­culation, and current Observerites are to be commended for that. But at the same time the paper finds itself in a quandary: it has become isolated from the editorial (writing, report­ing, editing) talent on campus. For The Observer to become a reputable college newspaper, it must attempt to reach out to these people. Best of luck to new editor Mike Monk and his staff .... 
The views expressed in this column are tbe views ofthe author, anddo not necessarily represent tbe views of The Observer or Its editorial board. 



College students waking up? 
Those weren't simply 5,000 spoiled brats on Capitol Hill last week protesting Ronald Reagan's proposed cuts in federal aid to higher education. 
While college students have reason to be angry with the president, the front page photographs of protes­ters carrying "Books, not Bombs" placards tell only half the story. Many students, such as Harvard's John Riccardi, arc bewildered on a number of fronts. For Riccardi's peers, Reagan's decision to reduce the government's educational com­mitment is only the mo~t disturbing development. 
"On one hand, we're told to have faith in this administration's inten­tions," said Riccardi, a 10-year-old Long Island native. "YL·t we receive little enough encouragen.cnt to do so on the other. We're t<dd to think about government llill_·n:ntly, but the administration b making it harder-not easier -It do so." 
Riccardi  bclon.•s  to  ;he  trailing  
edge of the nation's p•  t-war baby  
ciplincs  can  only  \Hm  r  why  the  

boom. the mysterious runt of the 70­
million-member litter born between 
1945 and 1965. Like many of his 
friends, he was weaned on John 
Belushi, New Wave Musk and peacetime draft registration. Judging from freshman surve.ys and campus bestseller lists, these students are even more career-oriented, conform­ing and conservative than their older brothers and sisters. 
Social scientists and journalists have linked these traits to diminising expectations. But we doubt that it's all so simple. To be sure, the .. student lobbyists" on Capitol Hill last Monday were screaming about the one cut that would affect them most. 
But the ··bottom boomers·' arc finding fault with other administra­tion policies. 
Take foreign afffairs. Even to someone who only scans the graphics in Newsweek, the world outside grows more intricate by the day. Given the multitudinous interests of different nations. students of all dis­
U.S. still fosters an expedient "all­brawn, no brains" approach to global problem-solving. Many see no place for themselves in such a sys­tem, so they ignore global concerns altogether. 

Closer to home, short-term think­ing by the government also leads stu­dents to shake their heads. The younger generation can't sec the benefit of a policy which allows the dumping of hazardous chemicals, as the administration proposed last week. Moreover, what's the sense, they ask, of an energy source that lacks a universally-approved method ofdisposing its by-products oro safe­ly mothballing the worn-out physical plants that produce it? 
Perhaps more than any other sub­set of the baby boom, today's college students are anxious for "economic recovery." They've more than proven their willingness to help "get this country moving again.·· But col­legians in 1982 don't want to wake up someday to find that recovery has been achieved at the expense of good sense. 
Ronald Reagan may be expecting too much. How can this generation's rear guard devote itself to teaching, to research, to helping others-and refrain from more lucrative lines of work -when its Joan indebtedness is expected to increase some 67 per­cent under new student aid guidelines? (It doesn't help matters when top White House aides, who make upwards of$62,000 a year, say the low salaries of government service will shortly force them to 
return to the private sector.) 
··A reordering of priorities is cer­tainly needed, but how can we be ex­pected to do it in the face of all these contradictions?" Riccardi asked. ''Our faith in the future is getting caught in the crossfire of what's supposed to be a battle for national renewal." 
Such heady comments could, of course, represent little more than the plaintive cries of a privileged young­
er  set.  Admittedly,  the  sight  of  
protesting  private-college  students  
begs our skepticism.  

From their perspective, however, college students arc struggling to find 
ManeD Glen 
and Cody Shearer 
a place in these changing times~ They're neither typicaly liberal nor typically conservative, but simply confused by mixed signals from the current leadership. 
Remarkably, the government's apparent lack of foresight in student aid cutbacks may spur many col­legians to campaign against illogic in other policies. Many in the bipartisan congressional group that met with student protestors last week en­couraged grassroots-style lobbying and letter-writing. Whether the con­
gressmen's  audience  will  forge  a  
broader consensus  is  impossible  to  
predict.  

But their inclination to view educational aid cutbacks in the broader context of administration policies makes them less self­centered than presumed. Sometimes it takes a shot in the arm to feel the pain of others. 


'Ih--e-Obse~~o·r
-. ----A.~Y=-~ 
Founded November 3, 1966 
The Obsen ·.'Y is m independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report· ed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Co.nmentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encour9.Bed. 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editorial Hoard 

EtlittJr·in-Cbief .............................. John McGrath Executive Neu•s Editor..................... Kl'lli Flint Sports Editor.............................. Skip Desjardin .Veu•s Etlitor ............................. l>avid Rickabau~h Photo Editor .........................................John Macor 
S.WC Ewcutit•e Editor ........... :-.tary Agnc::s Carq l:'ditorlals Ed/tor.......................Anthony Walton ~~WC Neu•s Editor ...................... Cathy Domanico Features Editor .........................C.rer,ory ~wit:rcz 

Department Managers 

Business .Wflnager ......................... Rich Coppola Production Manager...................Michael Monk Controller ............................................ .joe Mulflur Circulation Manager .............Tom Maclennan AdvertisinR Manager .......................Chris Owen Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley 
~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~------­



Call mom free, care of Miller Brewers 

S
eeing those disgusting little flakes ofwhite stuffdropping from the sky in the middle of March is not a heartening thought. Ifspring really comes on the twenty-first, then someone has found a very odd way of ushering in the change ofseason. 
Tari Brown
I 

, Next week's break acts as a teaser; 
/ we all know that the sunshine will stay in Florida and the snow will be here to greet us when we return to South Bend. While we're indulging in the surfand sun, the Miller Brewing Company along with its dis­tributors and the local Chambers of Commerce want to welcome us vacationing students with a special 
.promotion. 
In Fort Lauderdale and Daytona Beach, Miller will be sponsoring "Spring Break '82," a promotion scheme to benefit both us and the cities. They will set up welcome 


D ecently, tht: residents of tor and several residents. ftBreen-Phillips Hall showed Dorm President Jane Barber their appreciation for an old friend praised Miss Reeder, calling her a in a ceremony held at North legend in the hall. As the dorm's Dining Hall. Betty Reeder, security guard, she is one of the 
hall's most familiar faces and a close friend to many of the resi­

Vic Sciulli dents. Many graduates who lived in Breen-Phillips and their husbands often visit Betty when they visit the campus.
security guard at Breen-Phillips since it became a women's dorm, The brunch is only one of the was honored for eight years of events occurring throughout the 
service at the hall's annual brunch campus in March and April com­commemorating coeducation at memorating the tenth anniversary Notre Dame. ofcoeducation at Notre Dame. Betty, as she is called by all the Among these events are the Distin­
hall's residents, was presented guished American Women Lecture with a corsage and plaque in ap­Series sponsored by the Women's preciation ofher service to the Advisory Council. The Series will 
dorm. Betty was also praised at the resume April2 with NBC'sJane hall's mass by the celebrating rec-Pauley speaking. 
centers, located at SIS South Atlan­tic in Fort Lauderdale and on the southwest corner ofjasmine and 
U.S. Highway AlA in Daytona Beach. 
Just be showing up at the centers, we will receive a welcome kit with maps, brochures about area happen­ings and posters. There will be a massive message board so that we can leave our fellow comrades on pilgrimage to these parts ofFlorida notification ofour whereabouts. 
Lowenbrau telephone booths will be set up so we can call home toll free as long as home is not in Alaska, Hawaii or Florida, (sorry, folks), for two to three minutes between noon and 5 p.m. 
"We want to give students a chance to let the folks back home know how much fun they're having," said Paul Block, Miller's col­Jete marketing coordinator. 
In order to help the cities keep the beaches clean ofempty Miller product containers, there will be reclamation centers. In exchange for empties, Miller will give us t­shirts, sun visors and can coolers, advertising Miller and "Spring Break '82." (Mom always says I need an­other t-shirt.) The money earned from the recycling will be donated to charity. 
Not only will we be able to make the mandatory phone call home and ease our ecologically conscientious minds, but those '82 graduates among us can get a jump on the job market. The Fort Lauderdale Cham­ber ofCommerce will conduct its annual college vacation career fair. Area firms will be there to discuss potential job opportunities in the area with interested seniors. 
The career fair gives students the idea that there is a little bit more to the Lauderdale area than just surf, sun and sex, says Mike Frey, the chamber's manager ofeconomic development_ 
Miller is not going to forget that vacation in Florida is fun, too. They will provide live musical entertain­ment from 4 p.m. to sundown, four days a week at each center. In addi­tion, Lite beer commercial celebrities, Boog Powell and Bubba Smith, will appear to sign autographs and pose for pictures. 
Starting March l l, the centers will provide us with all the creature comforts ofbeing a tourist plus give us the chance to work on the future. What more could we ask? 
Fr. Sorin, there's a nice piece of property in Florida, just the right size for a university. _. 


Return ofpop music's halcyon days 
I
magine yourselfin a front-row s_c::at 
at the biggest concert event of 
1981. A concert by two men and a 
backup band, witnessed by more 
people than saw dozens of bands at 
Woodstock. Aconcert which 
featured the biggest duo ofthe 
1960s. A concert which was the 

second biggest reunion concert ever possible -with the first one (the Beatles) no longer possible. That is what the newly-released document ofSimon and Garfunkel's Sept. 19, 1981 reunion concert in New York's Central Park is -and much more. 
The Concert in CentralPark 
originally was to be il Paul Simon solo effort -until Simon had the idea ofinviting Art Garfunkel to perform with him during the free concert. Garfunkel accepted the invitation. 
Simon and Garfunkel still sound good together; so good that it may come as a surprise to some that they had not performed live together for a full-length concert since 1970. Compare this to recent live efforts by such 1960s stalwarts as The Beach Boys -anyone who saw them at the ACC last October knows what I mean. 
They did many oftheir greatest hits at Central Park that Saturday ­"Homeward Bound"; "Bridge Over Troubled Water" (without or­chestra, which gives it a different feel); "Scarborough Fair"; "The Sounds ofSilence"; and "The 59th Street Bridge Song ( Feelin' Groovy)," for example. However, they did not merely rehash their greatest-hits LP, and for that Simon and Garfunkel must be compli­me_ll!_ed. 
In addition to performing the "expected" songs, a couple oflesser­known S&G songs were thrown in: "April Come She Will" and "Old Friends," their first encore (an-ap­propriate song for the evening), Simon re-arranged some ofhis solo material for the two ofthem: "Late in the Evening"; "American Tune" (with Garfunkel singing lead); "Me and Julio Down by the Schoolyard"; and "Kodachrome." Each does asolo number or two. Finally, there are the surprises: two vintage oldies they probably first did during their days asTomandJerryin 1957orso­"Wake Up Little Susie" and "Maybelline." And they all sound as ifthey had been performing them to­gether for years before this concert, and not just this one time since 1970. 
Simon arranged his solo stuff for the two so well that one cannot help but think that he may have had his old partner in mind when he wrote them. "Late in the Evening" sounds much better as a Simon and Gar­funkel song than as a Simon song. "American Tune" is, well, almost tailor-made for Garfunkel's tenor voice; he gives the song an entirely new flavor. "Slip Slidin' Away" features the two trading offlead vo­cals. 
The backup band, as it was on One-Trick Pony, is tight, know their , stuff ...and probably listened to the 
duo's records in the sixties. The 
varied repertoire found on this LP 
could not have been pulled offwith­
out them. 
Aline in one of their last songs of the evening, "The Boxer," states: "After changes upon changes, we are more or less the same." This is per­haps the best way to sum up The Concert in CentralPark. Paul Simon and Art Garfunkel have changed in the past ten years ...but together, they still sound the same. For that alone I highly recommend this al­bum to all, even to die-hards who have all their 1960s albums, for the "new" material and for the re­worked versions oftheir old clas­sics ...and also for the fact that this is the first Simon and Garfunkellive LP. It makes one wish that the years 1965 through 1970, when "Mrs. Robinson" and "The Sounds of Silence," etc. were popular hits, could return. Popular music has not been the same since. On Simon and Garfunkel's The Concert in Central 
Park, those halcyon days return .. .if only for an hour and a half or so. 



~·---------~~·-1 
I 

The Observer Features Section 
Wednesday, March 10, 1982 -page 7 

Christopherthe Beloved 
S
he said shyly: "Chris?" He nodded yes. "Hello, Beth," he said. They hugged each other, and it was as though they had been family for all ofhis lifetime. The last time she had seen him was as an infant at birth. He knew that she liked him; he was not a disap­pointment to her. He enjoyed the way she kept hold of his hand while they waited for the hostess to scat them. 
She was a pretty woman, he thought. Seeing her, he 
could imagine how she had looked at seventeen. Even 
now, at forty two, she could almost have been his sister. 
Yct age had left little lines ofsadness around her eyes 
that couldn't have been there at seventeen. 
At first, seated at table, they talked ofhow easily she had found the place, and how pleasant the restaurant was with the fresh cut flowers in a vase. Eventually, they cased the conversation into more personal things. 
"I'm glad," she said, "they didn't change your name. I narm·d you Christopher in the hospital. I hoped they wouldn't change it, but I was afraid they might." 
"Was it anybody else's name:?" he said. "I mean, did you name me for anyone in particular?" "It was a name I liked," she said. "Your father's name is Harold. Christopher seemed like a nicer name." 
"It's nice being Chris," he said. "My parents told me that my mother had named me. Iwouldn't have minded being Harold, but it's nice being Chris." He wondered if she felt awkward when he spoke ofhis parents. But they were his parents now, spiritually and psychologically, and even physically, since they had nourished and clothed him and borne with his illnesses. Genetically, he belonged to Beth, and that was certainly a bond; he owed her his name, and he wanted to love her too. But he had had his home and his family for twenty-four years; nothing could ever change that. As he talked with her, he knew he had no need to worry. 
She had told him on the phone to call her Beth; it seemed natural and easy. Later, perhaps, he would usc a personal title. For now, there was information to be ex· changed, and a few questions to be asked, if she were willing. 
"Thac is nothing I could tell you that would hurt you now," she said. "We were very young, and one night, heing in love, we did a reckless thing. Later, when we knew a baby was coming, we talked about marriage. We cared about each other, but we weren't ready for marriagl·. He stayed with me until you were born. After that, it seemed better not to sec each other." 
lie could picture them: nice young people, probably 
very scared, because it couldn't have been easy. They 
had made decisions that were very wise, and very 
thougluful ofhim. 
"I had always hoped that someday I would sec you," 
she said. "Your call didn't surprise me. I had been 
waiting for it." 
I Icr llrst words, when she found out who was calling, 
had been: "I've been expecting your call. How did you 
find me?" His only clue had been a name and some dares 
they had given him at a city hospital. It had taken him a 
year to make his inquiries. IIis friends had warned him: 
"You could hurt her, and disappoint yourself" He was 
willing to go as cautiously as possible, for her sake, and 
Trivia Quiz XIX 
A
nother rather difficult quiz last wn·k, despite what I said. Here are the answers to that travesty, with the subject followed by his or her song: 
Tim "eely 
I. "The King Is Gonl·" by Ronnie McDowell -Elvis Presley 
2. "All Those Years Ago" by George Harrison -john Lennon 
Rev. Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
the sake of his adopting parents. He wanted to know if his birth mother's life had been happy; his only disap­pointment would have been to learn that her life wasn't happy. He owed her a great deal. He had felt incomplete not knowing about her. His own life would be better, he thought, knowing the goodness and love that had sur­rounded his birth. 
When the afternoon ended; they had begun to be ac· 
quaintcd. Both of them had families. Her family knew 
that there was a Christopher. His family knew that there 
was a parenting in his life that had preceded their own. 
All the different family relationships required restraint 
in their development, in order not to upset loved ones. 
Atime would come, perhaps, when introductions could 
be made, but there was no hurry. New loves should al· 
ways respect old loves, they both agreed. 
They said goodbye, to go back to their different lives 
to think matters over. 
She said: "Now that I have found you again, I'm not 
going to let you go." They would certainly keep in 
touch, he agreed. He would call her in a week; they 
would have new things to say, different questions to ask. 
He was happy she was proud ofhim. He had grown up 
to be the man she hoped that Christopher would 
become. He looked a little as his father had looked 
when Christopher was born, she said. 
He would try to find ways to hdp her and her large family, he thought. They were doing okay, but there were small children, who were his brothers and sisters. He hoped there was something nice he could do, in a family way. Someday, when it felt natural, he would call her mother. She deserved to hear that. Since his birth, she had probably missed him more than he had missed her; he never had to weep over their separation as she did. He had his family; they had given him everything except birth, and they meant the world to him. Now that he had found her, there was Beth. She had given him something too. He would never know how much he had cost her. He wanted to show her the tenderness he felt. 
"It's nice to know they loved each other," he thought. 
"I always hoped that they did." 
He drove home, imagining a seventeen year old face, 
full oflovc. He tried also to imagine the young man who 
cared about that face. Eventually, he would know more 
about him, too. 

No one ever knows everything about their parents and the circumstances of their birth, he thought. Even your own birth is part ofsomeone else's personal his­tory, which they might want to keep themselves. Some circumstances arc nice to know about. It made him feel good to know that all his parents loved him. 

3. 
"Sexy Sadie" by the Bcatles ­The Maharishi Mahesh Yogi (the song was originally titled "Maharishi," but john Lennon changed it bct(Jrc it was recorded) 

4. 
"Puppy Low" by Paul Anka­Annette Funiccllo (whom Anka had a crush on at the time) 


S. "Legl·nd ofa Mind" by the Moody Blues -Timothy Leary 
6. "New Kill in Town" by the Eagles -john Oates (of Daryl Hall and...; it may not have been written about him spt·dtkally, but was often dedicated to him in their live shows) 
This is the last 
SHOWCASE 
Section before Break. 
Have a good one!!!! 
7. 
"Candle in the Wind" by Elton john -Marilyn Monroe 

8. 
"Legend in Your Own Time" by early Simon -JamesTaylor (before she married him) 

9. 
"Hurricane" by Bob Dylan ­Ruben "Hurricane" Carter (a boxer who was convicted ofmurder just as he was in position to take on the champion in his weight class) 


I 0. "Happy Birthday" by Stevie Wonder -Martin Luther King (a plea to make Dr. King's bithllay a na­tional holiday) 
This last quiz before break will not be a break from the usual rigorous routine. This consists ofsubtitles of famous rock songs -you know, that part which appears in parentheses. For example, if a question was "(Don't Fear)," the answer would be "The Reaper." 
I. "(I Can't Get No)" 
2. "(We're Gonna)" 
3. "(No You're Not Said Little Nicola)'' 
4. 
"(The Games People Play)" 

5. 
"(Love Is)" 


6. 
"(I Can Dance)" 

7. 
"(Will You Evc::r Win)" 

8. 
"(Gone, Gone, Gone)" 

9. 
"(Hey, Won't You Play)" I 0. "(Heartbreaker)" 


Coffinnailedshuton syndicated talk shows 

T 
om Snyder was fired. John Davidson h~ been cancelled. Mike 
Douglas was dragged kicking and scrc::aming from the scene of 
his many crimes. Merv Griffin is losing stations and viewers from 
coast to coast. And the video burials of Dinah Shore and Toni Ten­
nille were carried out a few years ago. 
Yes, the television talk show, which used to be one of the most 
popular staples ofdaytime::, prime-time and late-night programming, 
is yesterday's news. 
All over the TV dial, programs fc::aturing an overdose ofcelebrity 
worship, soporific chit-chat, bald-faced plugs and back-slapping in­
sincerity are going belly-up. It's the nicest trend to hit the tube since 
the networks took away Evel Knievel's toys and told him he no lon­
ger could try to move walls with his face. 
Oh, sure -Johnny Carson and Phil Donahue still arc a strong No. 
I in the audience ratings in 
late-night and daytime, 
respectively. But Carson's 

Gary Dczczb 
NBC "Tonight Show" is far 
less a talk program than a very -------------­
savvy variety show presided 
over by one of the reigning --· 
-~~-­
legends ofshow business. And · 

Donahue's nationally syndicated, Chicago-based program scores a ,huge viewership precisely bc::cause his sort oftalk is so much dif­
ferent from -and so much more substantial than -the televised 
Tupperwarc parties of Mike, Merv, Davidson & Co. 
The latest nail in the coffin of the old-fashioned celebrity-chatter 
program was driven last week when Group W productions an· 
nounced the cancellation ofthe syndicated "John Davidson Show." 
The program will continue to be seen in several dozen cities until 
late August, then will vanish forever. 
Davidson's demise was triggered by poor audience ratings, of 
course. Most folks simply don't give a damn about Barbara Eden's 
diet or Sammy Davis Jr.'s jewelry collc::ction or the fact that ZsaZsa 
Gabor has a drip-dry wedding dress. And so Davidson (whose 
d t imples arc cleaned regularly with Q-tips) lasted just two seasonsas 
the host ofsuch an aggressively simple-minded program. 
Interestingly enough, Group W tried to blame the ashcanning of 
Davidson on the expansion of many local newscasts across the 
country. According to this logic, an increasing amount oflocal TV 
time is being devoted to newscasts-and, therefore, less time is 
available to syndicated programs such as Davidson's. 

Well, that may be true in a few cities. But in Chicago, for instance, the station that caricd Davidson actually wiped him out this week in favor of"Thc 700 Club," a right wing, money-grubbing religious program that pays bcttt:r bucks than Davidson. 
Here arc some more death certificates for the old-line talk show: 

• 
Mike Douglas, as first reported in this column in January, tried everything -including booking guests who would actually pay cash in exchange for air time -in a miserable effort to keep his 20-year­old gabfest' financially strong enough to stay on the air. It didn't work, and so Mike's horribk program is now in reruns and will sput· ter to an ignominious end in june. Meanwhile, some of the few sta­tions still carrying his daily drone arc placing it in virtually invisible time slots(such as WGN-TV in Chicago, which telecasts the Douglas farce at the whiz-bang hour of 4:30a.m.) 

• 
Dinah Shore, a beloved entertainer, and Toni Tennille, whom many observers looked upon as "the new Dinah," both bombed in the daily talk parade -Shore apparently running out of recipes and Tennille clearly out of her element in anything except singing. 

• 
Mc::rv Griffin, the multi-millionaire who largely finances his own program, seems to be the only one of the "elevator talk" specialists who has a reasonably rosy future. True, his show flat-out stinks, it isn't even televised in many major markets, and the world is tired of seeing this pudgy creature open his sport jacket to display the lining. Nevertheless, Griffin probably can prop himselfup on the air as long as his bank ac.count holds out. 

• 
And the death ofTom Snyder's late-night NBC "Tomorrow Show" also points to the failure of the genre. Snyder conducted ex· trcmcly unrevealing interviews, whether the guest was Bert Parks or Bert Lance, and he invariably attracted a tiny audience. After eight years ofsuch nonsense, NBC finally axed Tall Tom and replaced him with David Letterman. And although Letterman's brand-new "Late Night"program is categorized as a talk show, it's really more ofa fn·c· form comedy program -sort ofa cross betweenjohnny Carson and Steve Allen's original"Tonight Show" ofthe 19SO's. 



SportS =B::;:::r;::::;;i=e;~~.:.-s::::::==:::;============w=e=dn=e=sd=a=y,=M:;::ar=c=h=I=o,=t=9s=2==P=ag=e=s
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
The Water Polo Club will hold an important,.but
~ 
•: 
brief, meeting for all members tonight night at 7 p.m. in Caron Court, R 
first floor LaFortune. Plans for the upcoming spring season and also for next fall will be discussed. New members are encouraged to at· tend. Ifyou have any questions, call john at 7816. -The Observer 
Non-varsity deadlines coming up include both men's and women's 12-inch softball. The rosters are due today and must include 12-16 players, all from the same hall. The deadline for grad softball is also today, with a 12-member roster minimum and all players from the same department. The baseball league rosters are due today with a roster of 14-18 players. There is a S 15 entry fee for each roster. A women's soccer tourney is forming, with teams ar­ranged by hall and rosters due, ofcourse, today. There will be a J20 fee for entry and proofofinsurance is required -The Observe!_ _ 

Classifieds 
NOTICES 
DO YOU NEED A GOOD HAIRCUT? GUYS $4, GIRLS $6 CALL MICHOLE AT 7951 
THROWING A 50a OR 60a PARTY (OR 
SOMETHING ALONG THE SAME 
LINES) IN THE NEAR FUTURE? 
TIRED OF USING THE SAME OLD 
SONGS FROM "ANIMAL HOUSE", 
AND INFERIOR REMAKES OF THE 
REAL THINGS? 
Well, you never have to worry about 
that again... wilh T.N.T. RECORD 
SERVICES. They will supply you with 
records from the large T.N.T. Record 
Library for your theme party at 
reasonable rates. This servace was 
recently used at a party at St. Ed's with 
favorable results ... maybe 11 can make 
your party a little diHerent (or, heaven for­
bid. better). 
Call Tim at 283· t 536 after break for 
more deta1ls. (ND·SMC on-campus 
parties only please, with certain excep­
tions) 
EXPERIENCED TYPIST will do typing. Call: 287-5162 
LEGAL EXPERIENCED TYPIST: 272· 5337 
Congratulations Waiting For Now-1982 Nazz Mus1c Competition wanners Tim. Jimmy, Scotty. Bill, and Rob-1f you ever need any help carrying all that heavy equipment to a gig, PLEAT SE call on your devoted followers from second floor Reg1na. We are proud to serve you guys! 
SECOND FLOOR REGINA SALUTES 
TIM KEYES-THE FLASHIEST PIANIST 
OF THEM ALL-SCOTTY O'GRADY-THE 
MAN WITH THE HOTTEST LICKS 0 
THEM ALL-BILL GERGIN AND ROB 
LLOYD-THE GUYS WITH 
GIRLFRIENDS-AND JIMMY KEYES· 
THE ONE WITH THE FASTEST FIN­
GERS OF THEM ALL!!!!! 
CONGRATULATIONS ON THE BIG 
NAZZ WIN GANGl! SMIC IS WAITING 
FORNOW"III 
LOST/FOUND 
PLEASE NOTICE: I lost a beige fur­
collared coat at the South dming hall on 
2122182. Coat of canvas-like mmatenal 
and made by MAINE GUIDE. Any in­
formation leading to my getting it back will be rewarded. Please call Kev1n at 1103. Thank you. 
A watch was found in the ACC Arena at a recent basketball game. If 1t's yours, please call Dom at 3075 
Found: set of keys on astrological keyc­hain. Call Pat Sp1dertrap" Jolin at 3260 to identify. 
Lost: One blue and white duffle bag left in the south dining hall Thursday night. Please return to Mike at x8328. 
LOST: STUDENT AWARENESS OF CRIME. PLEASE FIND IT BEFORE IT'S TOO LATE. 
LOST: Silver SEIKO watch lost Wed. night Mar. 3 outside Senior Bar or in Campus View parking lot. If found. please call Rich at 277· 7536 or bnng to Campus View, bldg. 54655, Apt. 202. 
LOST: 4 KEYS on a GOLD NATIONAL SCIENCE MUSEUM" Keychain. Probab­ly lost in the Dillon-South Dining Hall Area. If found. please call Dan at 1729 • Thanks Ill 
LOST $50 BILL IN NORTH DINING HALL ON SUNDAY. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL LINDA: 2948. 
LOST: 10 AND FOUR KEYS ON A BACAROI KEY RING AT SENIOR BAR ON MY 21 ST BIRTHDAY. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL LINDA AT 2948. 
lost;dark blue scarf probably lost in LIFE Science Bldg; if found call 55 7 4 ask for Sam or leave message. 

LOST:. AN '83 CLASS RING (BLUE SPINEL. QP) IF FOUND. PLEASE RETURN TO GILDA. (x 8098) 
REWARD: LOST GOLD NECKLACE WITH CROSS AT CAMPUS VIEW POOL. SENTIMENTAL VALUE. Please call 283·6954 
LOST: Tl-25 CALCULATOR LOST SOMETIME LAST WEEK. IF FOUND PLEAASE CALL DAVE I. AT3546. 
FOUND: Wooden cross rosary with large brown beads at Stepan Center on Sunday morning. Call Louie at 234-6470 to claim. 
FOR RENT 

Student housing--clean. safe. $1 OOimo. 291-1405. 
Two furnished 5 bedroom houses near NO. Available next school year and sum­mer. 234·2626. 
TWO BEDROOM APARTMENT AVAILABLE NOW. 233-7631 
Be your own boss. Comfortable 5 bedroom, completely furnished house for 5 or 6. Close to campus. Phone 288-3942. 
82-83 school yr. 4 bdrm..close to campus,furn..excel.cond.,call 287-5361 after6 p.m. 
Ava1l.1mmed., 4 bdrm..close to campus.excel.cond.. call 287-5361 after 6p.m. 
WANTED 

Need nde to Houston Texas, for spring break. If you are headed in that direction please call Time at 1782. 
RIDE NEEDED to Dallas.TX or Shreveport,LA Please call289-8955 
ARE YOU PLANNING TO LIVE IN LUS· CIOUS. TROPICAL TANTALIZING SOUTH BEND THIS SUMMER? I'M LOOKING FOR ONE FEMALE ROOMMATE TO SHARE A CAMPUS VIEW APT. FROM JUNE TO AUG. CALL PATTI AT 283-6472. RENT IS ONLY $145AMONTH. 
Two fun-lovmg gals need nde to PHILL Y­area for break. Please don·t leave these girls stranded 1n South Bend! We can leave possibly as early as Wednesday af­ternoon (the 1Oth) We will share drivmg. expenses and provtde ·munchies! Please call Kw1ck1 at 3773 
Ride needed to DAYTON, OHIO for spring break. I can leave any time PLEASE call Donna at6771 
EMERGENbYm Ride needed to either Ridgewood, N.J., or Nyack N.Y. on or after March 12. Will share expenses and driving tlm&-call 2114-5127. 
I'll be stranded at Purdue if I don't get a ride back to the beloved Dome on March 
21. If you can help, call Peg at 1274 
NEED RIDE TO CENRAL JERSEY: Can leave on Wednesday afternoon. Will share the usual. Call Laura. 4308. 
Help!Need ride to D.C. for break. call Tom 1020 
I NEED A RIDE TO THE MPLS. AREA. WILL SHARE USUAL. CALL MIKE.3050 
I NEED RIDERS TO JOE LOUIS ARENA IN DETROIT FOR THE CCHA PLAYOFFS. 4 SPOTS ARE OPEN. CALL BRIAN AT 11192. 
DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO OHARE ON THURSDAY AFTERNOON OR EARLY EVENING---WILL SHARE USUAL---CALL CHRIS AT 1678 ANYT'ME. 
NEED RIDE TO OHARE AIRPORT ON FRIDAY AFTERNOON OR EARLY EVE· NING WILL SHARE USUAL···CALL OWEN AT 1678 ANYTIME. 
NEED RIDE TO COLUMBUS, OHIO--Iv Thurs or Fri. CALL 6839. 
HELPI!II AM DESPERATELY LOOKING FOR A RIDE FOR ONE AND A HALF PERSONS TO NORTH JERSEYINYC AREA FOR BREAK. CAN LEAVE 3112 AFTERNOON CALL KEVIN at 3489 (HE'S REAL SHORT!) 
HELP!! Need ride to DAYTON (U.O.) . Leaving 3112 Will share usual Call KEVIN at 1658 
NEED RIDERS TO TOLEDO FOR SPRING BREAK. LEAVING THURS OR FRI 
TYPING 28 years as a secretary-­excellent typist, retired. $1.001page call Phyllis 259·2501. 
NEED AIDE FROM LOUISVILLE OR IN· DIANAPOLIS MARCH 21. SHARE USUAL. KATHY 288·6437 
PLUSH VAN NEEDS RIDERS TO LAUDERDALE! CALL KEITH 3507 DAVE 1103 
DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO 
LAFAYETTE, IN AREA FOR BREAK! 
8602 
..................,.. 

DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO WASH. 
DC AREA for 1 ,2 or 3 riders for SPRING 
BREAK. Call Jim 1688 
The 921 Party·Bago 1s heading South for Break vta Alanta, Gainesville. Orlando. and points south. We are negotiable. Call 233-2969 for further information. 
Ride needed to New Jersey for Spnng Break. Can leave on Thursday or Friday. Will share usual. Please call John 
RIDERS NEEDED TO DAYTONA LEAVING FRIDAY. CALL HELEN 1317 OR ANGEL 1272. 
Need ride to O'Hare Friday after 12 share usual call Dom at 8860. 
RIDERS TO S.C. OR GA. CALLJIM 1434 
Need nde tolfrom MuskegoniGrand Rapids for break. (leave Fri.) Call Pat x3384. 
FOR SALE 
USED BOOK SHOP. HOURS WED.. SAT. SUN. 9-7. CASPERSON Q303 BUCHANAN RD . NILES. 
ANYONE NEEDING A SPOT ON THE PHILLY BUS (cost negotiable) CALL JEFF8862 
STOCK UP THIS WEEK ON I'IISTORY OR POLITICAL SCIENCE. BOTH SEC­TIONS 5&o OFF ALL USED TITLES. BUY AND SELL AT PANDORA'S BOOKS. 937 SOUTH BEND AVENUE. 233-2342. 
TICKETS 
Need extra tickets for graduation. Call Mark at3008 
PERSONALS 
Do you have your copy of the Mol~rlty books yet? No? Well then hurry ­Juniper Press is still marketing a hm1ted supply of the two smash hils by everybody's favorite cartoomst. Michael Molinelli, 1n e1lher Don't Make a Right or last years chart-topper. now 1n its fourth edition, On the Road to Selling 
Out Hey-don·t delay-act today! 
You can still JOin the Soc1ety for Creat1ve Anachronism 1f you m1ssed the meetmg last week. for information call Deirdre at 6013 
Macer countdown!!! Hark the herald an­gels shout, three more days and Macer's out! 
Mud Volleyball registration for An Tostal will be held tonight from 6 to 8 p.m. in first floor LaFortune. Rosters are to be composed ofsix to eight players, with a limit of two per team from the volleyball club. Each roster must include names of players, and the captain's name and phone number. You are only permitted to play on one team. There is a limit of 128 teams, so early registration is advised A Sl.OO entry fee will be charged per team. -The Ob· server 
Grace Hall residents will sponsor a film presentation ofthe january 19, 1974 classic basketball matchup between Notre Dame and UCLA, in which the Irish broke thelegendary Bruins' legendary 88-game winning streak. The film will be shown on tonight at 8 p.m. in Stepan Center. Admission is n.oo, and will go towards the Paul Komlosi Fund to aid the 1979 Notre Dame grad who was left paralyzed by a criminal attack last December. -The Observer 
LA· USC CLASS OF '831NVADES!II 
Jr. Class of '83 It's you and me at USC Sign up now and join the fun The game. the beach and California's sun!! depos~s March24-25 
YES that's right folks -JUSt 2 more days until those California boys. Rock Shrever and Jimmy Mac. head for the Big Apple with Giuseppe, Martinare. Pink Lloyd. and the rest ofthe NYC gang. Will they survive ( or. more importantly. will the city that never sleeps survive ?I) 
JUNIORS plan now -Sr. trip deposits March 24·25 $50 California here we cornell 
amerd... 
is short, butnotcute. 
HOLLYWOOD GALA Hollywood Gala HOLLYWOOD GALA/II 
TO AL NDISMC STUDENTS: PROTECT YOUR BELONGINGS OVER SPRING BREAK INSPECTOR BOB 
A RUOE AWAKENING...NO STEREO, TV. JEWELERYY ETC. WHEN YOU GET BACK FROM FLORIDA. BE ON THE WATCH! 
CLASS OF '82: 

QUESTIONS CONCERNING SENIOR FORMAL CAN BE ANSWERED AT IN· FORMATION BOOTHS SET UP IN LAFORTUNE AND LEMANS LOBBIES ON MON·TUES.WED 11 A.M. T02 P.M. 
GET CLUES ON SENIOR FORMAL MON-TUES-WED 11·2 IN LAFORTUNE ANDLEMANS! 
excuse me, Are your names D1ck, D1ck. and Dick? Thouht we'd come by for a dnnk, but all we got was abuse. Thank God your gorgeous RA came in and made the visit worthwhile. If you think SB is frigid, wait until you see how the Beach Bab1es react to you. --Murty and the Pink Headbands P.S. Forget Lake Marion. you DuLac so well. 
At the end of this week. the Party Marshmallow will depart to his homeland were he will recharge his party magic. But be on your guard for breaks cannot last forever, and the Party Marshmallow Will return even better! 
Mick. Mubs. Colit, D&B: Have a great Spnng Break I Love Pamps 
Scotty. You're a great Grace forward. Wish you would have won. A Grace fan fromSMC 
FOR SALE 
·:·ONE WAY AIRLINE TICKET FROM FT. LAUDERDALE TO CHICAGO 3-22-82. $100 PLEASE CALL KATE TODAY AT 2897. 
Help! Desperately need nde to D.C. for break. Will share expenses. Call Bnan 4521. 
J. C. I HAD A GREAT WEEKEND. YOU 
ARE THE BEST THING SINCE CRISP WIENERS! X.O LISA 
Richard, Which k1nd do you like best? Have a great break! Just Me· 
HEY GUYS! Only two more days! WE'RE THERE! Love ya, · Lisa 
GEOFF H. IS no longer 1a•lbaJI. Just ask the Butler! 
I AM LOOKING FOR A ROOMMATE I AM NOT PICKY BUT NEED SOMEONE CALL FOR AN ININTEAVIEW, COL­LEEN. 4440 SMC. 
HEY Dan. I did 1t agam! I had fun Saturday mght. Thanks alot. Good luck w1th Gale. Let me know how 11 goes. 
TO ALL DOMERS. WE WOULD LIKE TO SEE YOU PRETTY SOON BECAUSE YOU'VE BEEN UGLY FOR SO LONG. 
HEY KATY REGAN HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY. SORRY I'M LATE LOVE,WWLA 
WATCH FOR THE MC VATOR RAIDERS I LAINEY MURFACE 
JAYNELLEN COMING SOON TO A VATOR NEAR YOU. 
Foo Foo Town. Thanks for the comfort. Bed Pan Man 
Eileen: Thanks for a great time Satur­day night. Have to do it again sometime. Scott 
The LEWIS women seem to have lost their bounce. The STUDS are accept· lng further challenges. 
Two more days/11 Ahhhhhhh, I'm almost done, Then it'll be sun. And fun, Not with a nun, 
. Even if she has a gun. 
Ora son. However I might consider a hun, Perhaps munch1ng on a bun, While on the run. 
See ya down south, Ryan, purveyor ofpun. 
Sarah Pickle.. : Singing was tbe beat medicine. Michael 
A TURTLE ON ITS BACK IS HELP­LESS! SOMEONE PLEASE HELP ME GET BACK ON MY FEET AGAIN A SPINNING SHELL 
JOE, I AM SORRY FOR NOT LETTING YOU EXTINGUISH YOUR LIFE! THANX FOR NOT INVITING ME TO FROLIC IN THE FLAKES IN FRONT OF HALF THE CAMPUS. CHERYL 
THE HARE LEADS THE RACE BE· CAUSE THE TORTOISE IS STILL ON fTSBACKIII 
Ralph Bernard Carotin: My fnend has a cat named Ralph. 
Jodi 
p.s. I had a great lime Saturday mght. 
Hey· Photogenic, Bumble-bee Brother, Thanks alot for the surpnse party! 
DAB 
To the boobs In 227 & 228, God I'm sumel We could use some excitement, haven't we given you enough-Hint, We're cute, we're tun... we're 
S.W.A.T. 
What two people had such a good time Saturday that they fell asleep? WE knowwhot 
G.Q. 
LAST YEAR'S UMOC, MIKE "GORGAR" GURDAK, fS BACK AND UGLIER THAN EVER TO DEFEND HIS TITLE. GOLDFISH AND COMERS WITH WEAK STOMACHS-BEWAREIIII Question: WHO IS UGLIER THAN MIKE "GORGAR" GURDAK ? Answer: NOBODY ALIVEIIII!f MIKE "GORGAR" GURDAK FOR UMOCI!IIIIIIIII 
Laura. THIS HOOSIER IS READY to head for the sun. fun. and general warmlh of the Sensational South. See you there. 
Gregory 
JEFF LINDHOLM: Do you read the per­sonals? Just checkmg .. 
hi karen-how·s Oklahorna commg along? Hope your hav1ng fun out there-I'm g01ng to NY next week · how about that?! well have a good day -your b1g brother 
HOLLYWOOD GALAI 
HOLLYWOOD GALA 
HOLLYWOOD GALA 
DMILY 
Hollywood Gala. Hollywood Gala. Hol­lywood GaiL 
TWENTY-THREE, COUNT 'EM, ONLY TWENTY-THREE DAYS UNTIL THE CIRCUSII 
1 RIDER needed to SOUTH FLA. Leaving FRIDAY Mar. 12'CALL 8958. 
kathy· hope you finish your philo paper in grand style. cindy -here's wishing you well in anthro. calc. and Emil (which I will be blowing off till next week) cindy & kathy · have a great break. try not to miss the dome too much. and remember to have a good st. pat's day I sure will/ 
Jim 
ATTENTION ATTENTION ATTENTION This notice officially announces the first anniversary of Ml No.2 
CAVANAUGH HUMPSTERS: What's the answer to Fr. Mooch's ban on Hump Parties? FARLEY FHC P.S. Mikey-For pizzas? How disgusting! 
MAGGIE, KATIE, KATIE, AND ELAINE. HEY YOU GUYS! HAVE FUN IN FLORIDA. I'LL MISS YOU! BRING BACK SOME SUN FOR ME ... YA'KNOW WHAT !MEAN. 
LOVE. 
FISH 
THIS GOES FOR YOU TOO. BROWNIE! 
I know that person ... 
RIDERS NEEDED TO FLORIDA: CALL ED8828 
MARY KATHRYN FROM DECATUR: SO YOU'RE TURNING 22! WELL, EVERY­THING YOU DO IS MAGIC. SO I'M SURE 22 CAN ONLY MAKE YOU MORE WON­DERFUL THAN BEFORE. HAVE A GOOD ONE IN FLA AND WATCH OUT FOR WRESTLERS! BRIAN 
Do you feel like Alice in Wonderland of­ten? Do you forget what you're saying in m1dsentence? Are you the funniest per­son you know? Is food your best friend? Do you put out candles at 50 ft? Do you laugh at your own JOkes before you tell them? Are you a w1t1ess wonder? Psyc­hotic? Contact the LaLaLand Alumnt Club Hotline at 4775 or 4715. Offer expires 411182. 
Dearest Apple, You are the Sugar­plum of my eye. Love, BananaHeed 
GREG, EVEN THOUGH YOU REALLY DON'T EVEN DESERVE THIS, I DID PUT A PERSONAL TO YOU. I WOULD SAY SOMETHING CUTTING, BUT WHY WASTE MY TIME AND THE OB­SERVER'S SPACEIIIINSTEAD, I WISH YOU FOUR YEARS OF SMICS,(THERE ARE JUST SOMETHINGS NO GIRLS WON'T DO). RAB 
Bruce· Where·s my Richard"? T1m ·Can I do it? Can I. huh? Huh? MAC • With two beaut•ful women around. how could they poss1bly res•st? Jeb -Yes. that has hap­pened to me! Paul -Stop stealing my razor blades!..and my sc1ssorsl..and my ruler! .. and... Joe· Schedule change: add Photography 101. At least. that 1sn't all Greek to you. 
Colleen! Thlalaltl 
...so anyway. Caddyshack goes up to hiS 
boss. The Phoneman. and says. Hey. 
d1s-uh frog here says he wants-uh to 
make-uh a depos1t... should·uh I take-uh 
duh drop and exchange-uh 11 for-uh a 
telephone?" ... o.k. so The Phoneman 
says, How do I know! You think-uh he·s 
The Cous•n·s bagman?' And Caddys­
hack says, He gotta no bag except for 
that-uh th1ng he's carry1ng." (Wh1ch he 
got from Billy the Worm.) So The 
Phoneman looks. see. and he sees the 
frog... and 11 suddenly dawns on h1m and 
he says: (th•s IS it!!!) 
"It'a a knapaack, 
C8ddyaheck... 
Give the frog a phonal" 
(whew/) 

The Observer -Sports Wednesday, March 10, 1982-page 9 

"Goose" Gibbons (left) · d Don Casey after the Irish finished third in the the Midwest lnvtiational at Indiana State last weekend. Stark praised the team for "an excellent team perfonnance." 

Holy Cross Hogs grab hockeytitleinovertime 
Francisco-Boston College game. DePaul guard Raymond McCoy played for the the Dons as a freshman, and should provide a good scouting report. Meyer says he wants to play John Hegwood, Wallace Bryant and Quintin Dalley -not because of McCoy's scouting, but because the Eagles "will slow the ball down." A lot has been said about BC's appearance in the tourney, but they were 19·9 In the regular season, while Indiana was 
only 18-9. 
2) Missouri -You know these guys, too. Steve Stipanovich, the worst "best center" in basketball, was supposed to come to Notre Dame, but turned down Digger Phelps' offer to stay in his home state. Stipo has a sprained foot, and may miss the first game, but that shouldn't be thai big a setback for the Tigers. 
The star of this show Is Ricky Frazier, as a number of all-America selection committees can attest. He can't do it all -he can do more. Ifhe's hot the Tigers might be unstoppable. Jon Sun void and Prince Bridges make up an extremely solid backcourt. 
The Tigers will take on the winner ofthe Marquette­Evansville game. The Warriors defeated Notre Dame in the ACC on the strength, primarily, of Glenn "Doc" Rivers. One of only three independents chosen, Mar­queue takes on the surprising Evansville Purple Aces. The Aces won the Metro City Conference, and AI McGuire called them "the best team in the state of In­diana." 
going away. Ifthe Hogs make it on the tube, watch for ex-Notre Dame center Joe Kleine, who transferred to Fayetteville and may be on the bench. 
Ifthe Razorbacks hope to make the short road trip to New Orleans, they'll have to get by-the winner of the Kansas State-Northern Illinois game. The Huskies were one ofthose non-descript teams that came Into the ACC and knocked off Notre Dame early in the season. They also have the distinction of being the team with the worst record in the tourney ( 16-13 ). How did they get here, you may ask. Well, they upset pseudo-powerful Ball State in the Mid-American Conference tournament, that's how. All kidding aside, Northern has a legitimate player in Allen Rayborn. The 6-9 center played one of his best games of the season against the Irish, and got considerable all-America Honorable Mention acclaim. 
The Wildcats were upset by Oklahoma in the Big 8 tourney, but were in the Top 20 most of the season. Rolando Blackman is gone to the NBA, but his place has been filled quite adequately by Ed Nealy and Randy Reed. This is a veteran team that advanced to the Final Eight last season, upsetting Illinois, San Francisco and Oregon State before losing to North Carolina. 
DePaul, Tulsa and Missouri all have real shots at catching a Louisiana charter. But so do Kansas State and San Francisco, if things go right. lt may not, after all is said and done, be the toughest regional. But chances are it'll be the most interesting. 
Track and basketball results 
TRACK -The spring session of this years interhall track season was run last Wednesday indoors at the ACC Fieldhouse. Though the turnout was less than what had been hoped for, 11 halls were represented. The top four teams to pla<.·e were as follows: Team Standings Sports Writer 

I. Alumni -27 pts. 
2. 
Flanncr -22 pts. 

3. 
Holy Cross -1 7 pts. 

4. 
Morrissey -13 pts. 


Results ofindividual events HighJump 
I. Mike Donovan (Flanner) 
2. 
Rich Cordova ( Flanner) 

3. 
Carl Frushen (Keenan) 

4. 
Tom Limanek (St. Ed's) 

5. 
Kathy Tully (P-W) Long}ump 


I. Willie Sotis (Off-Campus) 20 ft. 1 in. 
2. 
Mike Doyen (Alumni) 18ft. 21n. 

3. 
Rich Cordova ( Flanner) 17 ft. II in. 


4.John Burke (Alumni) 17ft. 10 1/2 in. 440 
I. Stoney Mitchell (Alumni) 54.75 
2. Terry Olsen (Holy Cross) 57.07 3.JackSchneider(Alumni) 59.47 
4. Mike Yuknas (Morrissey) 60.53 880 
1. 
Mike Gillespie (Morrissey) 2: I9.8 

2. 
Barney Grant (Pangborn) 2:33.5 

3. 
Mike Yuknas (Morrissey) 2:4I. 2 

4. 
Stoney Mitchell (Alumni) 2:41.9 


Eight-Lap Relay I. Alumni 3:0S.61 
2. 
St. Ed's 3:07.4'i 

3. 
Holy Cross 3: I 0.62 


4. Morrissey 3: 12.14 Four-Lap Relay 
I. lloly Cross I :23.4·i 
2. Dillon I :24.I H .~.Alumni I :24.H'i 4. Fisher I :2'i. 'i6 Mile 
I. Dan Sullivan ( lloly Cross) 4:40.1 
2. 
Mike Gillespie ( :\torrissey) 4:'i6.2 

3. 
Paul Schmid .(i;lanner) S:02.4 -J. Pat Wagner(St. Ed's) S:04. 1 


I 
\ 
\. 
Inside lnterhall 

60-Yard Dash 
1. 
Chris Munro (Fisher) 5.89 

2. 
Mike Doyen (Alumni) 5.95 

3. 
Steve Strackowski (Fisher) 5.97 

4. 
DeanJacob (St. Ed's) 5.98 

5. 
Lisa Viale (P-W) 7.42 60-Yard Hurdles 


I. Rich Cordova ( Flanner) 7.5 2.John Burke (Alumni) 7.8 
3. 
Mark Winnehost (Holy Cross) 8.06 

4. 
Tom Limanek (St. Ed's) 8.25 

5. 
Lisa Viale (Pasq. West) 10.66 


MEN'S BASKETBALL -The championship of the B­Division was decided last "eck with Keenan prevailing. Though Grace led through most of the game Keenan's strong bench was to prove the difference. Grace was up by three at the half, and it wasn't until early in the fourth period that Keenan would pull ahead to stay. 
Frank White and Pat Beshel were the victor's strength on defense pulling down a majority of the rebounds. Coach John Buckley was impressed with the perfor­mance of his team members, especially with their type of play going into the stretch. Ted Gutmann, whJ was fouled a number of times, hit the free throws with devastating accuracy, with ten points in the last few minutes. 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL-Lewis 1 claimed title to the championship last week in their victory over Walsh in the semi-final, 31-23, and over Farley II in the final, 20-1 7. Lisa Johnson led all scorers for Lewis with I 0, and had a standout performance in rebounding. Lewis came out strong stacking up an eight-point lead at one point. 
Lewis Coach Matthew Ralph commented on his team's early break-away: "Farley seemed to have the opening jitters, and as a result their game was off." 
By MIKE RICCARDI 
Sports Writer 
With a hushed crowd of 700 

looking on at the ACC's North 
Dome, Pete Daly won the lnterhall 
hockey title for the Holy Cross Hogs 
with a clutch goal at 4:07 of 
overtime. His winning marker 
spoiled a stellar performance In goal 
by Grace's Warren Garden, who 
turned away six Holy Cross shots in 
the extra period. The final score of 
the thriller was 6-5. 
The contest was marked by wild switches in momentum as Grace took the early play but the Hogs jumped off to a 2-0 lead behind tallies by Randy Somerville and Lar­ry Miller. Grace utilized a sustained attack spearheaded by centers Dave 
Crawford, Billy O'Neill, Steve Schneider and player-coach Rich Laski, while Holy Cross responded with strong thrusts by their Some­rville and Miller lines. 
Billy O'Neill got Grace on th~ scoreboard at the eight-minute mark, but Carroll Hall resident Somerville restored the Hogs' three­goal margin a minute later with an unassisted score. Laski closed the first-period scoring at 13: 1 0 with an assist from Crawford. The Hogs took a tenuous 3-2 lead into the second 
period, but Crawford came back to 
tie the game for Grace two minutes 
into the new frame. 
The defenses of both squads then took control as both offenses were I held scoreless for twelve minutes. Holy Cross goaltender Pete Barry made some fine saves on a shor­thanded Grace attack, stopping an initial drive by Crawford and a tricky rebound shot by Schneider, as Grace's Garden played both defense and goal, leaving the crease at will. However, • when the Hogs' Jim Plamondon broke the stalemate, he opened the floodgates for a wild finish. O'Neill tied It again at four, but Daly put the Hogs back on top 35 seconds later. 
Grace got the break it needed at 
16:57 when Somerville was whistled for elbowing. The Grace attack took , little time to convert the power play oppurtunity as Crawford beat Barry from the point with 2:33 left. Holy Cross began Its seigc on Fort Garden as Somerville was robbed on two brcakaways in the final minute. The dock had struck midnight, and the Hogs' assault continued through the overtime with six shots on goal, turned away magnificently by Gar­den until Somerville's beautiful feed to senior RA Daly. 
-ANTOSTAL­MUD VOLLEYBALL REGISTRATION 

-Tues., March 9and Wed., March 10, 6-8 pm in 1st floor LaFortune. -Bring written roster with 6-8 players' names and captain's phone no. -$1 entry fee per team 
Only 128 teams, so sign up soon. 
Clceek eat flee 
OAKROOM CAFE 
U1 Seufk 'OUtiag Htlll'a P&UJ Cole 
For a late nite snack 
Nightly Specials 
Com lete with a new jukebox 

open Mon.-Thurs 9-12 am Fri.-Sat. 9-l am 

The Observer -Sports Wednesday, March 10, 1982 -page 10 


:ontinuedfrompage 12 
had just enough energy to dispose of the favored Stephens in a toe-to-toe battle in the final round. 
Highly-regarded John Donovan was the aggressor from the opening bell in his bout with Jim Smith, and advanced to the finals in the 155-lb. class. Donovan will face Ed Bulleit, who made a strong showing against Brad Boettcher. Bulleit did con­tinual damage to Boettcher's nose and used successful flurries in ear­ning the unanimous decision. 
Defending 160-lb. champion Greg Brophy will meet Mark Leising in that tina!. Brophy controlled the tempo and shut down the effort by• Dan Dooher. Leising used good right leads to eliminate Brian Nelson in a lackluster battle. 
Going into the Doug Maihaffer­:vJike Burke bout, :vJaihaffer had come off a first-round TKO victory on Sunday. But it was Burke who drew countle~s "oohs and ahhs" from the crowd of 2..39-t as he dis­played terrific punching power in turning back :vJaihaffer in a third round TKO. Burke will fight Dave Sassano for the 175-lb. titk for what can perhaps be considered th~ feature bout tomorrow night. 
Sassano scored a knockout over :vJike Finney at :29 of the t1nal round following two standing-eight counts. Sassano landed four con­secutive overhand rights to prompt the referee to stop the tight in the last round. 
Heavyweight :vJike Walsh was ab­solutely flawless in beating Tom Mazzone in a unanimous decision. Walsh used a series ofjabs and hooks to advance to the finals where he takes on Larry Andreini. Andreini, coming off of an upset over Tim McCormick on Sunday, defeated John Iglar in a wild match which 
. . . Bengals 
:.erved as the evening's finale. 
Aft~r wild swinging in the first round, fatigue set in on both fighters in the next two rounds, but Andreini was able to score on several over­hand rights to lglar's face. 
Dennis Cronk highlighted the 
165-lb. class fights by blasting right 
hooks and overhand rights to knock­
out John Rice at :56 of the third 
round. He'll face Angelo Perino. a 
!Jnanimous victor dver Dan Watzke. 
Perino kept a small edge on Watzke 
in the first two rounds with im­
pressive combinalions. 
Watzke hung tough though Perino scored continuously in the third round with combinations and solid ldb. Watzkc countertc·d and hurt Perino in the tinal round but in the end, Perino simply outscored Watzke to earn the trip to the finals. 
-It will be Dickie Hillsman vs. Don McLaurin for the 135-lb. final. 
Despite leaving Hillsman a bloody mess, Tony Bonacci could not match the strong right leads and was eliminated. 
Don McLaurin, just 5-2, remarkab­ly fought off a six-inch size disad­vantage and scored a unanimous d.ecision victory over Jo Jo Lucero. McLaurin used powerful shots to the head to beat Lucero, and will face the same size disadvantage in the final round. 

The Scuba Club defeated the Philadelphia Club last night in the championship game of the Club Basketball League at the ACC. (photo byjohn Macor) 
BOOKS BASKETBALL XI· 

Registration will be held this Wednesday, March 10, from 6-8 pm in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
Entryfee is $3 per team. 
®Lookout for the 

At least oneperson
manhole cover/ 

from each team must 
"-'\ I 


be present at
\ I 

registration.
\1 

East Regionalpreview 
Tar Heels have clear road 
They called it "Black Saturday." 

The day was March 17, 1979 -the day when the South received its worst beating by the North since the Civil War. 
The Greensboro (N.C.) Coliseum was the site that day of the NCAA East Regional Semi-Finals, pitting hometown favorite North Carolina against Penn, and defending NCAA runner-up Duke against St. John's. Both the Tar Heels and the Blue Devils were heavily favored and both had, in essence, a home-court ad­vantage. 
And both lost. that's what it's going to take to beat UNC. The entire basketball-crazy state of North Carolina 5). St.john's (20-8) -Third-place finishers in Big was stunned beyond belief. Instead of the expected . East are led by freshman Chris Mullin and others who 

-~An Intellectual Challenge 'ENTERPRISES OF GREAT PITH AND MOMENT' (Hankes)' 
snows how. ov working togetner. we can create a untversally acceptable second language, free of the archaic problems of spelltng, pronunciation. syntax, lr· regularittes and snobbishness. Completelyinfegrated and logical, tt enfolds the han· dicapped, accommodates computers and 
•probes the limits of human intelligence and 
expression. Its structural patterns make 
~;P~~~a~~ge~~'iie~~;Yte~~g y~~~i~~~1ci'6i 
library. Look one over and then get a copy
of your own -We need your herp! 100 pgs. $8.50 US ppd 
"Jf you please" CAMILLA PUBLISHING CO. INC. BOX 510 MPLS., MN 55440 
BY MAIL ONLY-SEND ~HEC~OR M.O. 

Carolina-Duke showdown for the regional final, 
( which, by the way, would have been their fifth 
meeting that season), Carolina partisans who had 
bought up all the Coliseum tickets were forced to sit 
through a game between two Yankee teams. 
"Never again," vowed the Confederates. 
Until, possibly, this year. 

In the three years hence, Duke has fallen on hard 
times, and will not see any post-season action this year. But North Carolina is back again, entering the tourna­ment as the nation's No. 1 team and the odds-on favorite to win the whole thing. 
At tlrst glance, Coach Dean Smith's Tar Heels should breeze to the Final Four in N<!W Orleans. UNC must win three games to reach Bourbon Street, but one of those will be played in Charlotte, N.C., and the other two in Raleigh, N.C. -each a stone's throw from Chapel Hill. 
And, judging from past experience -most especial­ly, North Carolina State in 1974 and Indiana last year ­those teams with the home-court advantage in the NCAA's usually fare very well. So, for all intents and purposes, the Heels should waltz. 
But look who's in the East Regional again this year? Yep, both Penn and St.John's. Not to say that either will make history repeat itself, but, as they say, anything is possible. 
Here is a capsulized preview ofthe teams in the East Regional, in the order they are seeded: 1). North CaroUna (27-2) -By far, the best and most dis­ciplined team in the country. Posted a remarkable 11-2 record against NCAA tourney teams. james Worthy, Sam Perkins and company aren't superstars, but rather ride the coattails of Dean Smith, the best coach in the nation this side ofBobby Knight. Home court advantage will provide help that the Tar Heels don't really need. 
2). Memphis State (23-4) -Freshman phenom Keith Lee ( 18 points, 11 rebounds per game) leads the Metro Conference champs. The Tigers like to run and hate to play defense, which is not the right combination to have in order to win the NCAA's. 
3). Villanova (22-7) -Rollie Massimino must have been ecstatic when he heard that Georgetown had been shipped out West. The Wildcats were the regular-season champs of the Big East, despite losing to the Hoyas three times, with each loss being by at least 14 points. A well-balanced attack, led by center John Pinone. could take the 'Cats far, but lack of bench strength will hurt. 
aren't pretty or graceful, but get the job done. Home­court advantage in first two games at Uniondale, N.Y. 
6). St. joseph's (25-4) -Who can forget the Warrick-to-McFarlan-to-Smith combination that beat DePaul with a last-second layup in the biggest upset of last year's tournament? The ECC champs are back. and so is their "Four-to-Score" delay otfense. Went to Mideast finals last year, and could very well go as far this year with that experience under their belts. 
7). Wake Forest (20-8) -A team very reminiscent of Iowa, the Demon Deacons, third-place finishers in the ACC, are incredibly balanced, with no player averaging over 1 1 points a game. But one characteristic ofsuccess in the NCAA's is the game-breaker, of which Wake has none. 
8). Ohio State (21-9) -Runners-up in the Big 10 with a late-season surge. But the Buckeyes are heatable, especially if Clark Kellogg is shut down. Credil Eldon Miller with a fine job ofcoaching, but OSU may not get past its first game. 
9). James Madison (23-5) -The sleeper of the region, in my opinion. The Dukes we .re fifth in the country in team defense, and have the required super­star in forward Linton Townes. Two losses were to Vir­ginia. Winners of ECAC South, but were upset by Old Dominion in conference tournament. 
10). Old Dominion (18-11) -Upset JMU in con­ference tourney to make the NCAA's, but II losses in a pushover conference are too many to consider ODU a serious contender. Ronnie McAdoo, Bob's cousin, leads the Monarchs. 
11). Northeastern (22-6) -Won ECAC Nonh, an­other joke conference. These Bostoners are repeats from last year's tournament, where they beat Fresno State before bowing out to Utah. Guard Perry Moss ( 23 ppg.) is the star here. 
12). Pennsylvania (17-9) -Don't let the record fool you. The Quakers have won 15 in a row, sweeping through the Ivy League for the third time in four years. Coach Bob Weinhauer is one of the best around, but consistently rejects coachingoffersfrom oth .erschools. Penn, the third team out of Philadelphia's Big Five to make the NCAA's (the others being St. Joe's and Vii­lanova), is paced by 6-5 Paul Little. 
So there you have it. My feeling is that North Carolina won't have any problems, but should be wary of darkhorses Alabama, St. Joe's and James Madison. 
And, ofcourse, Penn and St. John's. 
----~-------------~------~~ 

Ih~r.======================================= 
Wednesday, March 10, 1982-page 11

Todax 
Molari~y 
PIC> YOU 6££ 7111!:> 
AFlfJC.LE. , HI ro-f? ;I. T 
..'>AY!> J.,JoHE.N HAVE ~P.EATC:~ F'HY.51C.AL £NDVRANC£ 1H1tN HEN 


Simon 
you ,51\M. 
Yat GU~ '&AT 
E.VMW fl4.Y 111£'(RE FIND/~ NOR£ AND KC>RE' EVIDIENCE THtiT VJC>H£A) A.R£ ?HYS/Cit.Ll..Y, 
l1£NTALL Y ltND EHDTIDNitL ::J.Jf'E.R/61? 

50 HJII/1/ASa:AIJIS YES, 5/R. 7J£Y'/?13 rx»?5TCP, IXJC ~ m:N 8tTTCR 

Michael Molinelli 
II 61-if>WS ;Ju:sr flOW UNFAIR OUR HAL£-[){)H!IJ4J£ 




25 Celestial body 
28 Having prickles 30 Irish 
dramatist 32 Red or Dead 33 Papal name 36 Epithet for 
a pugilist 38 The -Isle 41 White House 
monogram 42 Swiss river 44 Thin 45 Large snake 48 Secretes 49 Coniferous 
trees 52 Claw 54 Unusual 
persons 

The Daily Crossword 
=-"T:':'"""T.;o-r.:;--, 
5 Roles 10 Intake of breath 
14 Siberian river 
15 Watery
swelling 
-:-+--+-+--i 16 Gulf of 
-;; Greece 17 A few 

=-+--+-+--i 18 Church instrument 19 Spare-+--+-+--+---1 20 Native of 
Ireland 22 Oscaror 
Tony 23 Twangy 24 Nome's state 
3/17/82

©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
........................................~ 


Campus 
•12: 
IS p.m. -Lenten Mass, Father Griffin, C.S.C., Basement ofLaFortune 

•2 
.. 5 p.m. -Tax Assistance, LaFortune Student Center 

•4:20 
p.m. -Colloquium, '"Recycling the Past ­Or Old Demonstrations for New", Dr. Thomas B. Greenslade, Kenyon College, 118 Nieuwland Science Hall, Sponsored by Physics Department 

•4:30 
p.m.-Meeting, Amnesty International, In­ternational Students Lounge, Basement of LaFortune 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Mechanistic Significance of Sterospecificity", Professor Irwin A. Rose, 123 Nieuwland Science Hall, Sponsored by Reilly Chemistry Series · 

•6 
.. 8 p.m. -Signups, Mud Volleyball, lnnertube Waterpolo, First floor LaFortune, Sponsored by An Tostal 

•6 
.. 8 p.m. -Signups, Bookstore Basketball Registration, LaFortune Ballroom 

•7 
.. 9 p.m. -Meeting (Tertulla), Spanish meeting, Grace basement, Sponsored by Spanish club 

•7, 
9, II p.m. -.FUm, "The Pink Panther", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by AIESEC.. ND, $1 admission 

•7 
p.m. -Lecture, "Is America A Dying Civiliza­tion?", POSTPONED 

•7 
p.m. -FUm, "Missiles of October", Memorial Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Government Department 

•7:30 
p.m. -Meeting, Faculty Senate Meeting, Seminar Room, 202 C.C.E 

•s
p.m. -Seminar, Business, 117 O'Shaughnessy Hall, Sponsored by Thomas More Seminar Series 


T.V. Tonight 
16 MASH 
22 CBSNews 28 Joker's Wild 
34 The MacNeiVLehrer Report 
46 Pattern For Living 
16 The Muppet Show 
22 Family Feud 
28 Tic Tac Dough 
34 Straight Talk 
46 Oral Roberts 
16 Real People 
22 Bugs Bunny Special 
28 Greatest American Hero 
34 Becket 
46 21st Century News 
22 Bugs Bunny Special 
46 The Renewed Mind 
16 Facts Of Life 
22 CBS Movie: "Between Two Brothers" 
28 The Fall Guy 
46 Today With Lester Sumrall 
16 love, Sidney 
16 Quincy 
46 Calvary Temple 
46 Michiana Today ~6 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 The Dick Cavett Show 
46 Praise The lord 16 Tonight Show 22 CBS Movie: "Dear Oecteclive" 28 ABC News Nightline 34 Captioned ABC News 28 Love Boat 46 Lester Sumrall Teaching 16 Late Night With David Letterman 
• • ·a 


/.. 
from an Irish county 
59 The-sod 60 Outdoor 
area 61 Water: Sp. 62 Tom, Dick 
and Harry 63 Crazy as­64 Accommodate 65 First name 
of 30A 
66 Coat with an alloy 67 Motherof Apollo 
DOWN 1 Cummerbund 2 Mine: Fr. 3 Insensitive 4 Describing 
shamrocks? 5 Laborers 6 Papal name 7 Treats 
royally 8 Fed 9-Jacinto 
10-Bay, 
Ireland 11 Regions 12 Desolate 13 Animal 
in Asia 21 Badgerlike animal 22 Everything 
c a 

25 Seaport of Ireland 26 Wood 
sorrels 27 Mr. Dillon 29 Shoe size 31 Irish poet 33 Shortening 34 Different 35 Certain 
writings 

37 Stadium shout 39 Spartan 
magistrate 40 Shower 43 Certain 
muscle 45 Excuse 46 Time peri· 
ods: abbr. 47 Ireland, for one 49 Winter 
garments 50 Harden 51 Festival 
of Apollo 53 Sierra­55 Fabric rib 56 Certain 
arch 57 Stunted animal 58 Pedestal part 
60 Irish saint, for short 
a 
7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. !O:OOp.m. 
!0:30p.m. ll:OOp.m. 
11:30p.m. 
!2:00a.m. !2:30a.m. 
• _ • 



" 



Wednesday, March 10, 1982-page 12 


ship match tomorrow night. Will Hare's ·story below contains all ofthe results. (photo byjohn Macor) 
Rugged competition 
Bengalboutersadvancetofinals 
ByWILLHARE 
Sports Writer 
Following a three-hour, .20-bout affair last night at the ACC, it is now time to tum on the red lights of the NBC cameras as the Bengal Bouts reaches its final round tomorrow night. 
Six ofseven defending champions won their matches in an action­packed evening highlighted by the Jim Mladenik-Tom Lezynski fight in which Mladenik won a controversial split decision. 
Mladenik, the defending 150-lb. champion, threw a barrage of 
.punches at Lezynski early in the opening round and threatened to put him away in the first minute. But by the end of the first round, Lezynski, a freshman from Holland, Pa, gained not only confidence but also momentum. 
Lezynski relentlessly fired away in the next round and easily won the ' second chapter. In the final round, a cl~sic
.. 
struggle took place in which each boxer looked as ifhe would put the other away. Mladenik continually put pressure on Lezynski, but his counter-attacks won great support from the Dillon Hall faithful in the crowd. 
Following the decision, Lezynski was in tears as Mladenik, a graduate student, advanced to the finals. He will take on Steve Sierawski. 
Sierawski used numerous solid lefts to the face to beat Paul Derba Sierawski, a junior from Lansing, Mich., was the tactician' in a fight in which he scored a unanimous deci­sion. 
Other defending champions who scored wins were Mike Martersteck ( 140 lb.), John Donovan ( 155 lb.), Greg Brophy ( 160 lb.), Mike Burke ( 175 lb.), and Mike Walsh (heavyweight). Tom Bush, the defending champion in the 145-lb. class, was not so fortunate. 
In the slowest-paced fight of the night, Beresford Clark, a Hollywood, Fla. native and a sophomore, surprised Bush with quick counter­punching in notching the split deci­sion upset. Bush, in his senior year, collapsed to the ground in disbelief following the decision. 

Clark will battle Mike Latz, brother of famed Notre Dame alumnus Leo Latz, who defeated Hugh Griffith. Latz, standing only 5· 7, scored on an awesome flurry of rights and lefts early in the final round ofthat bout. 
Mike Martersteck, a senior from Bernardsville, N.J., used solid com· binations to keep his opponent off­balance and scored a TKO at the one-minute mark of the third round in holding off Frank Maneri. Pat Serge awaits Martersteck, following Serge's thrilling victory over John Stephens. 
Serge moved well in his first two rounds and appeared to be the ag· gressor although Stephens apparent­ly outscored Serge in each session. Serge then changed his strategy and 
See BENGALS, page 10 

Helpful hints 
Bookstore sign-ups tonight 
By DAVE DZIEDZIC 
Bookstore Commtsstoner 
Yes, it's that time ofyear again. 

Even though one couldn't tell by looking out window, spring is just around the corner. By the time we migrate north after vacation, spring will be officially with· us. And of course, with spring comes Bookstore Basketball. 
The whole extravaganza begins today -Austin Carr's birthday (the patron saint of Bookstore Basket· ball). Registration is from 6 to 8 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
In order to ease the pains of registration, here are a few remin· ders from your Commissioner: 

• Entries are limited. As was the case last year, we will not be able to accomodate every team that wants to play. The only suggestion we can make to help insure your team makes it this year is for you to arrive 
early. 
•Only one representative per 

team needs to be present tonight. r This one person, however, must have the following . i!!formation 
ready in order to register: I ) team 
name; 2) the names, addresses and phone ·numbers of two captains (please make every attempt to provide two different addresses and phone numbers); and 3) the S3 entry fee. Note that neither of the two captains actually needs to be present at registration; just one rep­resentative with the names, etc., of two captains. 

•With everyone conscious of the limited space availability, things can get hectic at registration. Obviously, cooperation is vital. Four lines will form in the LaFortune Ballroom. Those registering are asked to be patient and enter only one of the four lines. There will not be a separate line for varsity football players. If you have football players on your team, please indicate this to the registrar. 
While forming your team, please keep the following restrictions in mind. All graduate and under­graduate Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students faculty and staff are eligible. Students must be currently enrolled to be eligible. 

Only one NotreDame varsity' bas­ketball player (past or present, male or female,) is allowed per team. For example, Gary Grassey cannot play on the same team as Gary Brokaw, and Marc Kelly cannot play on the same team as Missy Conboy. The commissioner's decision on such matters is final. 
Only three varsity football players are allowed per team, and only two are allowed if a varsity basketball player is on the team. A participant is considered a varsity football player ifhe was on the 1981 Fall Roster or is listed on the 1982 Spring Roster. 
One last suggestion: if any ques­

tion arises concerning eligibility, 
consult the commissioner before 
the tournament begins. It's better to 
straighten out such matters before 
controversies and disqualifications 
arise. 
Schedules and complete rules will 
be distributed at a meeting of cap· 
tains on Monday, March 29, at 7 p.m. 
in the Memorial Library Auditorium. 
Closing victory a rarityfor Irish 


NO FINALE -Although many were disappointed with this year's 
basketball season, fans can take solace in one thing: for the first time 
since 1973-74 and only the second time in the last 14 years, Notre 
Dame won its last basketball game ofthe season. 
Back on March 16, 1974, the Irish dumped Vanderbilt, 118-88 in 
the consolation game of the Mideast Regionals in Tuscaloosa, Ala. 
Ironically, Notre Dame had lost to Michigan (a 53·52 victim of the 
Irish Sunday) in the regional semifinals that year by a 77-68 count. 
Before that, one has to dig back as far as the 1967-68 campaign to 
find a season-ending victory, when the Irish thumped St. Peter's, 
81·78, in the consolation game ofthe NIT tournament. 
Of course, prior to this season the Irish had made eight straight NCAA tournament trips and had participated in nine straight post­season affairs and 13 in the last 14 years. However, they lost five season-ending games in the last 12 years, four of those during tour· ney seasons. The last time the Irish won their last regular season game in a year when they did not go to post-season competition was 1966-67, when the Irish notched an 84-59 win over Creighton to top off a 14-14 season. 
DEJA VU-Maybe Phelps' 10-17 Irish still have a chance for post· season competition. Notre Dame High School of Niles, Ill., who posted a 10-17 record on the year and finished the season with eight straight losses, still earned a berth in the 68-team Illinois State Bas· ketball tournament. 
ELITE COMPANY-No one can ever claim that the Irish basket­ball team does not play a difficult schedule. In fact, 60 percent ofthe teams Notre Dame played this season, 15 out of 25, have reached post-season competition. That does not include the UCLA Bruins, who probably would have received a tournament bid if the NCAA had not blown the whistle (or should I say honked the horn) on them. 
Notre Dame posted a scant 2·1 0 record against the 11 foes in the NCAA tourney (they played San Francisco twice). Their only vic­tories were 50-48 over Idaho and 75-66 against San Francisco, both home games within an eight-day span. 
The Irish were 1-3 vs. the four opponents who garnered NIT berths, their only win being 55·51 over Lefty Driesell and the Maryland Terrapins. 
Excluding their 0-2 mark against UCLA, the Irish posted a 7·2 record against the remainder of their schedule. Their only losses were to Seton Hall (71-58) and LaSalle ( 66-61). 
POWER OF THE PRESS -On these pages last Thursday, Observer sports editor Skip Desjardin took the U.S. Basketball Writer's As· sociation to task for dropping Quintin Dailey from its all-America team after criminal charges were brought against the San Francisco star. 
Earlier this week, the USBWAreinstated Dailey. USBWAPresident Frank Boggs explained the move, saying that "I am sure we will be accused of saying he's guilty. I've gotten quite a few phone calls about it ......" 
Sounds familiar. 
DEJA VU, PART 2 -Irish fencing Coach Mike DeCicco is not 
superstitious, but he sure hopes history repeats itself next week 
Notre Dame plays host to the NCAA Men's Fencing Champion­ships, to be held at the ACC Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. The last time that the Irish hosted the event was back in 1977, when they clinched the NCAA title. DeCicco's Irish also won the championship in 1978. 
The Irish have three entrants in this year's NCAA event: junior Rich Daly in epee, freshman Mike Janis in sabre and junior Marc DeJong in foil. DeJong won his first Great Lakes Fencing Champion­ship last weekend and will be making his first trip to the NCAA's. Daly finished fourth with a 2·3 record in the final round ofthe Great Lakes (in which the top three fencers finished with 3·2 marks) and will be making his third straight trip to the NCAA event. 
ICE ACCOLADES -Two members of the Irish hockey team, which faces Bolwing Green in the semifinals ofthe CCHA playoffs in Detroit this weekend, have received awards oflate. Senior Jeff Logan earned CCHA Player of the Week honors for his performance in Notre Dame's total-goal series sweep of Michigan in the CCHA Playoff opening round. Meanwhile, teammate and classmate Dave Poulin has been named one of ten finalists for the Hobey Baker Award, given annually to the top collegiate hockey player in the country. 
DEJA VU, PART 3-A quick glance at the CCHA playoff brackets for the weekend reveal the power of the WCHA, the conference which Notre Dame participated in through last season. Three ofthe four teams in the CCHA Final Four (Notre Dame, Michigan State and Michigan Tech) all left the WCHA for the geographically-more­feasible CCHA. The fourth team which left with that trio was Michi­gan, which was eliminated by the Irish last weekend. 
The only other team in the CCHA elite is Bowling Green, a perennial powerhouse in the conference. 
A LITTLE LONGER -Although the Irish women closed out the 
season with five straight basketball losses, their 16-9 record was 
quite an improvement over their I 0-18 ledger in I980-81, their first 
year of Division I play. Included among the women's team records 
set this season were a 10-game victory streak betweenJanuary 2 and 
February 6, and a string ofnine-straight wins at home. 
The Irish captured the Dial Classic Tournament Championship 
and second-year Coach Mary DiStanislao was nominated for the 
Stayfree Coach of the Year award. 








