Campuspoints -page 8 
I I 


CHICAGO (AP) -An extor­tionist who wrote a letter threaten­ing more poisonings unless the makers of Tylenol gave him S 1 mil­lion is probably a "tag-along" and not connected to the cyanide killer, authorities said yesterday. 
"It's a long shot that this is the work ofanything other than a kook," said a law enforcement source in Washington. who refused to bt: iden­tified either by name or department. 
"The killings were a very subtle and secretive crimt· :md it's doubtful that would be topped off with the flagrant ignorance of a payoff scheme with the identity attached to it," the source addt:d. "Our ~uess is it's totallv unrelated to whoever did the pois(lning. Thest.· 'ag-alongs hap­pen all the time." 
The extorrion demand wao; the latest in a string of possible clue-; that apparently ha..-e washed out since the investigation began last week into the deaths of seven 
Chicago-area residents who took cyanide-filled capsules from bottles ofExtra-Strength Tylenol. 
Lawrence Foster. Yice president for Johnson & Johnson. parent com· pany of the manufacturer. \leNd! 
Consumer  Products  Co..  refused  
direct  comment  on  the extortion  
demand.  

"From the very first day ofthis. we were in touch with the FBI and es­tablished that anything having to do with extortion demands -letters. phone calls ...anything, was to be channeled through our security people and turned over to the FBI." said Foster. 
The source in Wao;hington con· firmed that a letter was sent to \1c!'Jeil threatening a second wave ofcyanide poisonings if the demand for S1 million was not met. 
In Poland 
Parliamentends Solidarity union 
WARSAW, Poland (AP)-Parlia­so at the end ofthe year. central boards, ot federations, ment formally ended Poland's un­The new law allows workers to would be permitted only in 1984. precedented experiment in worker strike, but restricts it severely and Some Western observers say this 
bans walkouts in ca<>e of natural or timetable would allow the Com­
democracy yesterda), voting ec.onomic emergencies. Police and munist Party to monitor union
ovenvhelmingly to ban Solidarity military unions are not allowed and development and guard against theand take steps to stop future unions any labor organization deemed to be swift, independent growth that the
from gaining Solidarity's national harboring anti-government activists 10-million-member Solidaritypower. 
would he deregistered. Stiff enjoyed.
The vote, taken by a display of 
penalties are provided for those who It was not clear how the vote af­
hands, was broadcast on the state­break the rules. fects Lech Walesa. the Solidarity na­
run national television. Officials said New unions will be based on tional chairman who has beenonly 10 members of the 460-seat professions and initially limited to interned since martial law wasSejm, or Parliament, voted against the factory level, erasing Solidarity's declared. Many other union leadersthe new trade union law, while nine immense power as a national force. also remained in internment, whileothers abstained. 
Unions also would be forbidden to others have been released after sig­The move came after nearly 11 tack names like "Solidarity" onto 
ning loyalty oaths.

months of martial law under which their titles.
the Soviet bloc's only independent 
Nationwide organizations would There were only a few dissenters labor union was suspended and 
he prohibited and inter·union during the Sejm debate. 
most of its leaders imprisoned. Military rule has been challenged by periodic riots and protests and the vote wao; expected to provoke more 
Jobless rate surges 
unrest. Gen. Wojciech Jaruze t !ski, the Communist Party and government 
to post-Depression high 
chiefwho declared martial law Dec. 1~. applauded quietly after the vote. 
WASHINGTON (AP) Un-was the best they could get. There was little visible response employment surged to 10.1 percent In a bill-signing ceremony at Long from the deputies. in September, the worst level since Beach, Calif., President Reagan 
An informed government source the nation pulled itself from the pledged to find jobs "for all the I0.1" said Jaruzelski planned to speak Great Depression, the government percent of the labor force out of today when Parliament reconvenes, reported yesterday. work. He chastised critics" ...who and added he might "offer a few Moreover, the numbers of would try to make a political football sweets.'· No other details were Americans who simply gave up out of this cruel fate for so many available. The report prompted looking for work or settled for part­people." 
speculation that the general might time jobs also eclipsed modern Reagan said the legislation would 
announce a further easing of martial records. create hundreds ofthousands ofjobs
law, but the governmem sources 
Altogether, nearly 11.!1 million by increasing U.S. investments and other officials saidJaruzelski did people were unemployed last abroad. The president also said his not intend to lift military rule now. 
month, 450,000 higher than in administration has reduced He previously has said he might do August. Some 120,000 lost their jobs "double-digit inflation, the single 
in September, while an additional greatest enemy of jobs" and added 
~HO,OOO people tried in vain to join 
the workforce for the first time. 
The September figure was the first 

double-digit joblessness ex­see ret~<Pd :to-rte-, ... 
perienced by the nation in more 
than four decades. The previous IJau~ _The letter Oirected that the W ao;hington source said. 
high was an annual average of 14.6 
money be put into a bank account in Members of an investigative task 
percent, recorded in 1940 at the end 
the Continental Illinois National force headed by Illinois Attorney ,
of the Depression. that "the toughest, most urgent
Bank and Trust Co. in Chicago. General Tyrone Fahner have Some 1.6 million people -a new priority we have is to create more Ted McDougal. a spokesman for reported no substantial clues in the high -were officially declared by jobs." 
the bank, said yesterday the financial case. Fahner said Thursday night 
the government to have lapsed into Labor Secretary Raymond J. 
records of a "former customer" that "we are no closer to making any the "discouraged workers" Donovan termed the unemploy­arrests," but said there had been
were turned over to the Justice category. That is a separate grouping ment figures "a social tragedy." 
some progress in narrowing leads. ·­
Department "in connection with tht: of Americans who are excluded Treasury Secretary Donald T. Regan, Tylenol investigation." He declined FBI agents have been present at from the compilation of total un­asked when the jobless rate mightthe headquarters of the task force in
further comment "under notice" employed because they abandoned recede, acknowledged, "No one 
from the government. suburban Des Plaines, but sources 
the search for work. knows." And in Hot Springs, Va., Even though the extortion at­indicate the federal agency has taken A record high 6.6 million were Reagan's chief economic adviser, 
tempt apparently is not linked to the little active role either in the inves­
working only part·time, either be­Martin Feldstein. told the Business murders, authorities still will try to tigation or in examination of cause their hours were cut by hard­
estabJi.,.h who wrote the letter, the evidence. pressed bosses or part-time work See RECOVERY, page 6 
SaintMary 's library opens 24-hourlounge 

ByRENEFOY 
.Veu·s Sran· 

·_rhe lon~-awaited. ~fter-hou.rs study lounge in t~e ~e":' Cushwa­l.ei~hton L1brarv at Samt Marv s College opened th1s "ee~. . 1 he 2'1-hour founge, added at the request ofSamt \1ary s students. 
wa" built on the lower level ofthe lihrarv. Saint :\ian·'s did not open the lounge·with the rest of the facility because all lounge locks had not been secured. After the library's regular hours, the lounge is only accessible through the LeMans Hall tunnel. This secures the lounge for late night study, but because the entrance to the tunnels is located inside the residence halls, Notre Dame men cannot use the lounge. Notre D::.me women do have access to the tunnels. The lounge boasts vending machines. a spacious study area. pay telephones and an on-campus and direct·dial .•ecurity phone. There are also two computer terminals. Smoking, eating and drinking are permitted in the lounge. Student input of ideas for planning the library resulted in a place that can accommodate every student's study habits. Cusbwa-Leighton stutly lounge (Photo by Ted Toerne) 

~ 
NewsBrie.IJ 
Ry The Obsert•er ami The Associated Press 
Seven Notre Datne and Saint Mary's students were 
arrested at Corby's early yesterday for under-age drinking. South 
Bend Police Chief Daniel Thompson ~aid officers made the arrests 
about 1 a.m. yesterday inside Corby's. They were charged with un­
derage drinking in a tavern. Police also checked Bridget's for un­derage drinkers, but no arrests were made. Notre Dame Dean of Students James Roemer was unavailable for comment. He was attending an alcohol conference in Indianapolis. -The Obsen•er 
Astate district courtjuryawarded s11.2 million 
to the parents of a Houston infant who suffered brain damage in his crib. Jurors ruled Thursday that Jacqueline and Steven Smith of Houston were entitled to damages from the crib manufacturer, Welsh Co. of St. Louis, and the retailer, ABC Baby Furniture and In­fant Wear Inc. According to testimony, one side ofthe crib collapsed July 30, 1981, as Christopher Smith, then 7 months old, was lying in it. The couple claimed the baby's neck became wedged between two se~tions of vertical dowel and he suffered brain damage from lack ofoxygen. -AP 
Eastern Virginia Medical School has an­
nounced the birth of its seventh in vitro, or "test tube," baby, the eighth such birth in the United States. Vern Jones of the medical school said the baby, born in a Minnesota hospital Thursday, is "a very healthy eight-pound, seven-and-a-half ounce girl." The parents requested anonymity, he said. The birth of the first baby conceived outside the womb at the Eastern Virginia Medical School was last December. Jones said 19 more such births are expected by spring. 
-AP 

Food production must be doubled in the next 6o years or the world will face "social and political chaos" because of food shortages, a Nobel prizewinner said in Florida Thursday. Nor­man· Borlaug, who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1970 for develop­ing a high-yield strain of wheat, said his prediction is based on estimates that the world population will double from 4 billion to 8 billion by the year 2042. He spoke at dedication ceremonies ofThe Land Pavilion in the Future World section of Disney World's new Epcot Center. The exhibit features plants grown under experimen­tal conditions. -AP 
The Hillsboro, Wisconsin Police Department, 
housed in a former girls' restroom in a building once used as a high school, soon will be moving. The Hillsboro City Council voted this week to move the department into the clerk's office in the Hillsboro City Building. The department's two officers had complained the room was musty and damp even though bathroom fixtures had been removed. It was, however, drier than their previous office in the old shower room. The council's plans may eventually exceed Police Chief Leo Lowrey's expectations. The council discussed construct­i!lg an addition to the building, a former high school that now houses the library, the clerk's office and the council chambers, to give 
police their own office. -AP 

The 20-year-o}d SOn of the president of Corning Glass Works was released on Sl4,000 bail after being arrested on charges of importing hashish from China. Neil David MacAvoy, a Stanford University junior, was arrested Wednesday after a package was delivered to him, Sgt. T.K. Davis ofthe Santa Clara sheriff's office said. Davis said customs inspectors were alerted to the package, which held about an ounce of hashish, by a dog. A postal inspector delivered the package to MacAvoy at the Alpha Delta Phi fraternity house, Davis said, and MacAvoy signed for it and "seemed excited about getting it." Ten minutes later, narcotics agents with a search warrant kicked in the door and arrested MacAvoy. Davis said detectives found more than an ounce ofmarijuana and 52,SOO worth ofcocaine in MacAvoy's room. MacAvoy was booked fer possession for sale of hashish, cocaine and marijuana, importing hashish and possession ofcocaine. He posted bail and was released. His father is Dr. Thomas C. MacAvoy, ofCorning, N.Y., president ofCorning Glass and last year's president ofthe National Council ofBoy Scouts. -AP 
Fonner Oregon Gov. Tom McCall 
dying ofcancer, has appealed for voters to stick with land use plan­ning to protect the environment, saying "if it goes, then I guess I wouldn't want to live in Oregon anyhow." A measure on the Nov. 2 ballot would repeal the land use law passed while McCall was gover­nor from 1967·1974. "I'm not embarrassed. I haven't got much time left. This is my last chance to talk to you about this," McCall, 69, said Thursday. McCall was stricken with prostate cancer in 1973. Doc­tors found in 1981 that the cancer had spread to his spine, ribs and skull. -.AP 
Breezy todaywith a 60 percent chance of rain. High in low to mid 70s. Very mild tonight with 60 percent chance of rain. Low in low60s. Occasional rain and mild Sunday. High in low 70s. ­AP 
Saturday, October 9, 1982 -page 2 

'Beat Miami' Faust 
'il'!ft/y­
~-· 
The Observer Under the Big Top 
Design Editor.. ......... Ringmaster Rabbit Design Assistant ........... Lion·Tamer Tom 
Barker Tim layout Staff... ....... Asleep in the Stands Typesetters ............................................ Bruce 
Tom (works without a net) Copy Editor ..................................... Barker II Features Layout.............. ... Fire·EaterJoe, 
Trapeze Tari Editorials Layout............ another arsonist Supplement Layout.. ... .......... Barker III Sports Supp. Layout ... Skippy The Clown Sports Copy Editor .... Ed the Human Can, nonball NDDayEdttor.............. Strong-Man Grote SMC Day Editor.......Cotton Kandi Griffin Typists ...................... Clowns Bozo & Bobo Ad Design ........ Greg "Tent Pole" Swiercz Pbotograpber .................... Acaged animal Guest Appearances ... Assorted side·show freaks, !Jon, McGinn the wild boy, Tall, est Man and Tiniest Woman 
The Observer tUSPS 598 9201 ~~ published Monday through Fnday and on hollle football Saturdays e)(cept dunng exarn <.~nd vacahon penods The Observer •s pubt1shed bv the studer•ts of Notre Da'l'le and Sa1nt Marys Cui lege Subs<.npt1ons 'l'lay be purchased for $25 per ~ear tS 15 per sernesten by wnhng Tlwl Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Darne lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer 1s a ""e-nber of The Associated Press All reprc•ducllon nghts are reserved 
Secol'ld class postage pa1d at Notre Darne lnll1ana 46556 
An injured Greg Bell ({eft) stands amidst fans at last night's pep rally in Stepan Center. Coach Geny Faust(top) accompanied cheerleaders, yel­ling "Beat Miami" with the crowd. (Photos by Glenn Kane) 
You won't have to take up 
acollection to afford our 
lavish Sun,1F~~~~~ Buffet. 

All you (~--..:z. . 1 ~. :·;;j:'J~~ 
can eat. !p..... .-,_/ ; /L~~q11:0~0a.m. ~{~ • ' ~·~ ) . .i 
3:30 p.m. l/ /Jj 
~>-r.. . / -~.~-"-?!_, 
~/ ../· ~t -~'/ ~/··. -\,~5 
family, 
Buffet 
~~~ii: 
S3 95)
-. 

Every week, we dish out the tastiest Sunday service in town. Roast BeE-f, Chicken a lc King, Lasagna &fi!':h. Mashed Potatoes, Dressin'] &Gravy. Salads& Ff".tit. Pius a whole buffet fu:1 of other family favorites. All fo:-the heavenly bw priceof just $€.SS. So come pass the piatt~wilh us next Sunday. You can take al: you want. Without giving 'till it hurts. 
-~----·-----­

The Observer Saturday, October 9, 1982 -page 3 
Survey results 
Degreenot seen as jobguarantee 
WASHI~GTO~ (AP) -.\tost Americans no longer view a college diploma as a ticket to prosperity, a national survey indicates. Nearly two-third~. in fact, feel that univer­sity graduates are just as likely to find themselves in an unemploy­ment line as anyone else in these times. 
The survey, released yesterday as unemployment hit a post­Depression peak of I 0.1 percent, also found that more than half of the respondents were afraid they will not be able to afford to send their children to collge. 
The survey, sponsored by II high­
er education associations, revealed 
that a majority of the nearly I,200 
persons who returned usable ques­
tionnaires support at least some cuts 
in federal aid to higher education, 
though not drastic reductions. 
}.W. Peltason, president of the 
American Council on Education, 
and the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, 
president of the University of Notre 
Dame, held a news conference to 
release the rt.sults. 
The academic groups are observ­
ing a week-long celebration of Na­
tional Higher Education Week that 
will culminate with a ceremony honoring Heshurgh Saturday at the jefferson Memorial. 
The survey was conducted hy Group Attitudes Corp. ofNew York. 
It also found that nearly three­quarters of Americans give higher education good grades -I 7 per­cent rated U.S. colleges as excellent and S6 percent said they are good. Some 23 percent meted out a rating of fair and .f percent said they were poor. 
About SS percent of those pol' .:d 
said they had major concerns about 
their ability to pay for a child's col­
lege education, and one-third had 
some concerns. One I in 9 -I I ,percent-had no such worries. 
Asked about President Reagan's efforts to make deep cuts in federal aid, nearly 16 percent said the programs should be cut hack drasti­cally and 40 percent said they should be curtailed somewhat. But 44 percent said they favored no cuts in federal student aid. 
On a separate question, 49 per­cent said they were critics ofcuts in aid to college students, and 41 per­cent called themselves supporters. 
However, large majorities favored continuedtederal aid for needy stu­dents and institutions. Some 7"7 per­cent backed low-interest loans to middle-income students; 71 percent supported outright grants to low­income students, and 66 percent en­dorsed dired federal aid to institutions with large numbers of needy students. 
Ay an overwhelming margin -84 to 7 percem -Americans felt that all qualified students should get the opportunity to attend college. 
Despite doubts that a diploma is a safeguard against unemployment, large majorities believe a college­educated person is more likely to be self-supporting (69 percent) and a 
community  leader  ( 72  percent)  
than  someone who  never went to  
college.  
The polling firm  mailed  out  40  

survey questions last May to 4,200 randomly selected people and got usable responses from 1, 188, or 28 percent. The firm said it is 9S per­cent confident that its results reflect the views of alJ Americans, give or take 2.8 percent on any given answer. 
Economic woes 
Business group seeSslowrecovery 

HOT SPRINGS, Va. (AP) -Presi­dent Reagan's chief economist and chairmen of200 major corporations predicted yesterday that the economic recovery will be painful and slow, and that unemployment may still be about 9 percent more than a year from now. 
The Business Council, composed of chief executives of the largest American ~orporations, said that even with an expected recovery later this year, the jobless rate will show a scant decline by the end of 1983 from the post-Depression high of 10.1 percent just anno'unced by the government. 
MartinS. Feldstein, the president's nominee to head the White House Council of Economic Advisers, said the council's gloomy forecast was reasonable, and lamented the "very painful" unemployment the country is enduring. 
At the same time, Feldstein indi­cated that the Reagan administration has no intention of alteting its anti­inflation policy, which most private economists blame for the prolonged recession and risingjobless rate. 
Government programs to stim­ulate the economy, intended to reduce unemployment but carrying the risk of rekindling inflation, would be a mistake, he said. 
"The temptation of over-reacting in doing things too quickly and reinflating the economy instead ot letting the problems work out naturally have been a source of trouble in the past," Feldstein told 
reporters. 
' Several top administration offi­cials are joining the Business Coun­cil for its semiannual meeting at an exclusive resort hotel in the Virginia mountains. 
In addition to Feldstein, Defense Secretary Caspar Weinherger, 
Transportation  Secretary  Drew  
Lewis  and  Health  and  Human  
Services  Secretary  Richard  

Schweiker were here to address the elite ofthe American business com­munity between rounds of golf, ten­nis and therapeutic treatments of 
hot water spas. 
The posh surroundings provided a stark contrast to the concerns about unemployment expressed in the business meetings 
Lewis said he takes solace in the fact that the unemployment rate did not jump as high as 10.3 percent, as some administration officials had feared. 
The economic forecast prepared for the Business Council predicted that the long-elusive upturn that most economists thought would begin months ago finally will surface in the next few momhs. 
The report said unemployment 
Walter Cronkite (right) receives an award from Avere/l..Har­riman Thursday night in Washington as he was honored by the NationalMental HealthAssociaton at its third annual tributedin­ner. (AP Photo) 
#''t 
ltl''t ~ 


~P£Ulll»i~® ~£M'~~ rGU i41l»~south B~~d 
The closest campground to Notre_Dame 
2305 Bell Road Modern Niles, Michigan 49120 Phone-Area Code (616) 684-1393
facilities and hookups 

..~  tAljey yeuJl fiee&o! weelacd of . See ~ 5ff8W. ~. 9K. $17-50"" .,,-~oled W11C3, ~ ••wbee TU, obt ~. ~lwJzup 6M ~·CD!~~. -1-936-4555.-'  

From South Bend's Ethnic Festival 
l ~·
Spencer's Ribs 
had just about reached its peak and that interest rates would continue to fall. 
However, several business leaders said they personally are less optimis­tic about the short-term outlook. Worker layoffs are continuing in 
some areas, they said, and capital spending plans needed to fuel a robust recovery are still being reduced, either because a recovery still seems out of sight or because they expect only a weak improve­
ment. 

September jobless rate highestsince 1940 
NEW YORK (AP)-The Septem­
ber unemployment rate is accepted 
officially as the highest since 1940, 
hut those who deal with the statis­
tics caution against making com­
parisons with the Great Depression 
ofthe 1930s. 
To begin with, there were no offi­cial jobless data during the 1930s. They were reconstructed during I946 and 1947 from various sources by a Bureau of Labor Statistics 
worker, Stanley Lebergott, now a professor at Wesleyan University in Middletown, Conn. 
The 1930s and the I980s are "different worlds," the professor said yesterday. While he read "with grief' of the I 0.1 unemployment ratefor September, he expressed the opinion that being out ofwork today is "not as bad a..'i then." 
To be without. a job in the 1930s was very different, he said, because 
of the absence of unemployment in­
surance and Social Security, and be­
cause almost alJ of the jobless were 
heads ofhouseholds. 
"The hulk of the unemployed were in acute financial need," said Lebergott, who was a teenager during the 1930s. He recalls some breadwinners were unable to afford an adequte supply of food in those days. 
"Unemployment meant some­thing different, in significant ways," he said. Unemployment insurance today may permit an idle worker to wait for a job ofhis or her choosing. In the 1930s, he said, "you took the first job you could get." 
The composition of the workforce has also changed sig­nificantly in recent years. The two­income family has become common, and women have become prominent in the work force. 
'-"'"'"'""'''''"'''"''''''''''~
ISKI IN STEAMBOAT!!! I ~ -During the National I1Collegiate Ski WeekJanuary 2-8 I 
~  $285 perperson  ~  
~  Price includes 6 ni.lodging at Holiday  ~  
~  Inn, 5-day lift ticket,round trip bus ticket  ~  
~  from South Bend to S~eamboat,and many  ~  

~ parties!! Limited space available, so hurry ~ ~ and reserve your place. Hinterested, ~ ~ cometothemee~ingWed.at 8:30p.m. in ~ 
~ the LaFortune Little Theater. ~ 
I ~ 
~ SponsoredbytheND-SMCSkiTeam ~ 
t................."'''''~''''''''''''...­
Specializing in Ribs and Soul Food 
526 Western 289-9905 

on Wheels 
. '\ . 

IRISH NIGHT 
AT SaintMary's Clubhouse 
Come and enjoy the music of 
Jim Corr and Friends 
Authentic Irish Band Wed. night 
9p.m. 


snacks and a good time provided 
The Observer Saturday, October 9, 1982 -page 4 

Professor Rom Harre discussed "Scientific Realism" at a philosophy colloquium in Hayes-Healy yesterday. Harre is from Oxford University. (Photo by Glenn Kane) 

. :::······· .. · ·: .. . . ····.· . .:· 
........ to Notre Dame --·--all on '~.ac·a..::a• Radio 
JOif'l··.,. rr1nv ·Roberts and AI Wester 
saturaa.', October 9 as the ·~Fighting 
Irish'' meet Miami during the 15th 
eonseoutive season of national play-­
by~play broadcasts produced by 
radio's leader in sports 
Cancervictirn 
Actor-director Lamas dies 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Actor­director Fernando Lamas, the swarthy, silver-haired star of numerous "Latin lover" movies, died yesterday afternoon of cancer, a hospital spokesman said. 
Lama'>, 67, died at 2:4S p.m. at UCLA Medical CeiUer, said hospital spokesaan AI Hicks. 
Lamas had been hospitalized for four weeks with what Hicks described ao; "a generalized cancer." 
Lama'> had complained of back pain when he withdrew from a role in a new television series last month, said Carol Fleisher, a spokeswoman for NBC. He was to have appeared in a supporting role in the adventure series "Gavilan," starring Robert Urich, which is scheduled to debut following the World Series. 
Lama"i had filmed scenes for five 
episodes, playing Caesar D. Tortuga, 
a sophisticated bon vivant who 
belongs to an aristocratic South 
American family left penniless after 
an unsuccessful coup. He was 
replaced by Patrick MacNee and all 
ofhis scenes were refilmed. 
The dashing Argentine-born en­tertainer had starred in more than 40 motion pictures and directed more than 60 televison shows since his Hollywood debut in 19S1. 

THEIC~ 
HOUSE 
RESTAURANT 
15 REASONS: 
Broiled Seafood Platter Charbroiled Halibut Steak Charbroiled Salmon Shrimp De Johnge Charbroiled Swordfish Walleye Pike Red Snapper Trout Ala Mer Stuffed Flounder New England Scrod Rock Lobster Pan Fried Rainbow Trout Gulf Coast Shrimp Stuffed Shrimp Pan Fried Frog Legs 
5:30 NightlyAll Day Sunday100 Center Complex 
700 L. W.W., Mishawaka 259 9925 
~ ~" '' 
He met actress Esther Williams when the two championship swim­mers made "Dangerous When Wet,'' and the two were married in 1963. 

He made his film debut in the play "The ~tan Arrived at Night" at the age of 22. He played heavies in four movies, then was cast opposite Dolores Del Rio in "Lady Win­demere's Fan." The movie made him one of the most popular Latin stars. After appearing in more than 24 films in Europe and l.atin America, Lama-; moved to HollyV\-·ood in l9S1 under contract to MGM. 
In 196', he began his television directing career with "Run for Your Life" and accepted only special ac­ting assignments thereafter, includ· ing episodes of "Mannix," "S.W.A.T.," "Starsky and Hutch" and "Superman." 

He had starred in more than 20 American films, including "The Mer­ry Widow," "1 00 Rifles" and "The Cheap Detective." 
La'>t year, Lamas directed an episode of CBS' "Falcon Crest" in which .his son, Lorenzo Lama<>, a regular ofthe show, had a prominent part. He also directed feature films, including "The Violent Ones" and "Magic Fountain." 

Judge denies request for halt to burger ads 
MIA~11 ( AP) -A federal judge yesterday denied McDonald's re­quest for a temporary restraining or­der that would haYe pulled Burger King's attacks on Big Macs offthe air. 
Chief U.S. District Judge C. Clyde Atkins refused to halt the ads after hearing arguments and viewing ex­hibits for almost two hours yester­day afternoon. 
McDonald's chief counsel, Gary Senner, admitted that Burger King's commercial contending that McDonalds' regular hamburgers are "20 percent smaller" is true, but he said the intent ofthe ad is "false and misleading." 
Burger King attorney Stephen Lang denied that the intent of the ad wa-; to mislead. 
The "20 nercenr smaller" com­

mercia! shows a little girl in front ofa 
Burger King restaurant saying, "Do I 
look 20 percent smaller to you? I 
must go to McDonald's." 
McDonald's request yesterday 
wa'> to stop that ad and any other ads 
which it said are "false and mislead­
ing," said Senner. 

McDonald's, the nation's leading 
fast-food hamburger chain, filed suit 
three weeks ago in an effort to halt 
Burger King's new S20 million ad 
campaign from starting. 
A hearing is scheduled on a mo­tion for a permanent injunction in November. But by that time the ads would have been on the air for several weeks, so McDonald's sought a temporary restraining or­
der in yesterday's emergency hearing. 

Eastern Ohio county runsshortonfunds 
RAVENNA, Ohio (AP) -Times are tough in Portage County. Judges canceled trials after running out of money to pay jurors, only four ofthe sheriff's 19 patrol cars are available for patrol duty, and some officials considered canceling the November election. 
Nearly one property owner in 10 is delinquent on taxes. 
"People are saying they just don't have the money," said county treasurer Maurice Kline. "They are hurting becaue ofgeneral economic conditions." 
But county officials said yesterday the problems will be straightened out somehow, that the trials and the election both will be held. 
Commissioners and other elected officials said they will seek the state's advice on how to eliminate a projected S'i41,000 budget deficit in the county of 135,860 ea"it ofAk­ron that is home to Kent State llni­versity. 
State law forbids deficit spending. and with two and a half months left in the 1982 fiscal year, officials said this week that the county's S 10.2 million budget was nearly ex· 
hausted. 
Officials blame the budget 

problem on several factors, includ­
ing the recession, federal budget 
cuts, high unemployment -13.6 
HeIp the 
March 0f
•
Dlmes 
BIRTH DEFECTS
FOUNDATION 

"'-&.·r.. .....,..w-. -~..,~~··· . ~~ <m!:~~.;'·"' 
ll.ii~-=·=--~-::::!!·~-=~==-====-=-=--~~-~-~1b;;·:··Q~~~~;~~~;II~~&~-;-=·~--·~·H>..~~J
.... ""'"'~~~~--:.:"' ""'· 
..... 
percent locally in August -and un­paid personal property taxes. 
Nearly 10 percent of the county's 
52.38 million ofproperty tax collec­tions for 1982 is delinquent, said Kline. "This is the first time in recent history that we've had such a severe problem," Kline said. "The last criti­cal case was in 1943." 
Of the elections budget shortfall of S33,000 that had prompted the election hoard to consider scuttling the November election, Kline said, "They're going to take care of the problem." 
"You don't deny the people the 
right to vote," he said. "Someone got 
out and made some comments that 
really exploded." 
Some county officials had indi­
cated last week that they might have 
to furlough half the county's 400 
workers next week because ofa lack 
of funds. Hut Kline said the plans are 
not det1nite, and state law requires 
two weeks' notice before municipal 
workers are laid off. 
Early this week, the county's two 
Common Pleas judges began notify­
ing lawyers that no jury trials could 
be held until 1983, putting 70 civil 
and criminal cases in limbo. 
That might have meant freedom 
for some criminal suspects, because 

state law requires the release of 
anyone not brought to trial within 
90 days. 
"It's just a mater of fact that we're 
broke and can't p~ juries," said 
Common Plea-; Judge Joseph Kain-
rad. 
County commissioners said yes­
terday they would find the money to 
pay jury fees, even if they have to 
borrow it. The commissioners had 
alloted ~2,000 to pay jurors this year 
and it hao; been spent. 
To save money. the commis­
sioncrs have abo discussed closing 
the courthouse one day a wt·ek, 
eliminating a disastt:r services 
agency. and canceling county-paid 
hospirafizatiun.tl('n.efitt-fm \\!Orkers. 
...,:-:;··:-:·=======-:......=:::·:::··:·;:.·­

----·--------­
'fhe Observer 


·--~-:t.. 

Emperor Hirohito harvests this year'sfirst crops ofrice at a field on the Imperial Palace compound in Tokyo Wednesdav. It was Hirohito himself who plmzted the seeds earlier this _year. (AP Photo) 
NOWplans greater role in '84elections 
BER(iA :"'JA\'AL BASE, Sweden (AP) -A foreign submarine is still trapped in the Stockholm ar­chipelago after failing to break through the heavy steel cables of an anti-submarine net, the Swedish na\). said yesterday. "The latest contact was this after­noon, only a little while ago," a navy spokesman said. "This shows that the suspected fort>ign suh is still in the hlocked Hors Ra,· area." The hunt lw an· estimated 40 surface ships an'd 10 helicopters en­
tern! its second week. and the na\)' dropped more depth charges before dawn. trying to damage the mystery ship and hring it to the ~urface. 
Officials refer to the sub as a foreign vessel without identifying the countn·. but it is widelv believed to bc> a Sov.iet bloc submarine. 
Thr navy spokesman, Capt. S\·en 
Carlswn. refused to say what action was taken l~ter in the <Jay, but repor­ters in the area about 20 miles south of Stockholm heard no more explo­sions. 
"We are moving as tough as we can now." said Lt. Col. Evert Dahlen of the defense staff. "We give no warning shots and are bombing closer to the sub than previously." 
"We will. by all possible means. react against violations of our ter­ritory," said Prime Minister Olof Palme, who took office Thursday af­ter winning the general election Sept. 19. 
Carlsson confirmed a report in the newspaper Dagens Nybeter that the sub tried to escape Thursday via the northern exit from Hors into Mysing Bay but failed to break through the anti-submarine net stretched across 
Fourteen-year-oldboy prisoner at home 
GENEVA, Ill (AP) -A 14-year­ing to see if any there were any old boy was kept a virtual prisoner at criminal violations. home from the time he was born, Paul Freedlund, special assistant taking his meals in the attic and to the director ofthe Illinois Depart­never going to school or to the doc­menr of Children and Family tor, officials say. Services, said a preliminary ex­
The boy's father, however, said amination s t howed the 14-year-old today that his son was sheltered be­appears to be above normal in intel­cause he is retarded and the family ligence and to have no apparent feared his problems would reflect physical defects. Freedlund said the on his nine brothers and sisters. The boy appeared to suffer from a lack of father said "in retrospect it was kind stimuli and spoke slowly. 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -The Na­
tional Organization for Women 

plans to be a major force in 
American politics in 1984 with one 
million members, a large campaign 

war chest and hundreds of 
knowledgeable feminists· as can­
didates and campaign workers, 
NOW president Eleanor Smeal said 
yesterday. 
At the organization's first conven­tion after the defeat of the Equal Rights Amendment opened here, Smeal outlined the game plan for changing the nation's political climate to pave the way for the even­tual adoption of the ERA, defense of 
abonion rights and defeat of con­servative politicians. 
"We are determined to hit 1984 with a much larger base ofpeople ­especially women -who are sick and tired of being discriminated against," Smeal said at a news confer­nece. 
As a step toward increasing NOW's membership from its cur­rent 220,000, Ms. Smeal unveiled television ads designed to enlist new members. The .tds emphasize NOW's role as ·1 lobbyist for women's rights and as a source of. campaign money for feminist can­didates. NOW has a S2SO,OOO budget for the ads, which will run early next year. 
Nearly 2,000 delegates gathered for workshops, speeches and discus­sion groups at the convention that will also elect a new NOW president to succeed Smeal. For this year's elections, NOW will be involved in hundreds ofraces, she said, although she expects only modest gains in the 
U.S. House and Senate. Somewhat larger gains are expected in Florida and Illinois, where NOW has pledged to defeat anti-ERA state legislators. 
"We will remember in November 

what they did last spring," Smeal 
said. 
The NOW convention is 

"historic," Smeal said, because ofits 
implication for the future. 
"It is not just an election con­ference. We will also help determine the direction ofthe organization and of the women's movement for the: next 10 years. We must make major decisions on our agenda in light of the recent defeat ofthe ERA." 
That course will give heavy em­phasis to electoral politics, Smeal said, no matter which ofthe five can­didates is elected Saturday night to succeed her as NOW's leader. 
"We intend to build a political force for the future. We know we must change the political climate if we are ever to get an ERA or to get other necessary agenda items such as reproductive freedom." 
Part ofsuch a change in American politics would be "the defeat of right-wing candidates," Smeal said. She added that the NOW convention will consider a resolution tomorrow to establish an Institute for Feminist Politics to train women candidates and campaign staffers. She said such trained and knowledgeable feminists would be a major force for 
change in political campaigns and would increase the token numbers of major candidates who are truly committed to women's issues. 

Saturday, October 9, 1982-page 5 
Escapefails 
Submarine remains in bay 
the 500-yard passage. 

He denied a report in the newspaper Expressen that the escape attempt succeeded. 
"The captain of the submarine probably did not know the net was there," said Maj. Bengt Sjoholm, pointing out the spot to reporters touring the area aboard a ferry. 
After the collision with the net, navy ships dropped five 330-pound depth charges. The hunted sub ap­parently crept hack to the 200-feet­deep part of Hors Bay and continued its hide-and-seek attempt to elude the Swedish flotilla and its ex­plosives. 
Carlsson also confirmed a newspaper report that a second sub­marine was detected Thursday trying to get into Hors Hay, ap­parently (0 aid the trapped sub. Dagens Nybeter said abour 4:30p.m. the navy found that the position bum·s on the anti-submarine net had mm:ed 100 yards into the bay, but later the buoys returned to position, indicating that the submarine retreated after failing to get through. 
The report said the second sub then cruised north of Mysing Isle just outside the blockadt: area, and four depth charges were dropped 
The sub in Hors Bay was firsr detected last Friday in the bay outside the top-secret Musko Naval Base and the Berga training base. 
Officials refer to the intruder as a foreign vessel, but defense sources indicated the nationality has been determined with 90 percent cer­tainty through analysis ofoil slicks. 


AGOSTINO'S Specializing in 
~ ~ 
Prime B.ib, Seafood, Steaks and 
~ . ~
hlstle servin• your favorite cocktails. 
~ Go.9mk ~
ltep 'lAKING JlESBBVATIORS 
xow
602 So. WMiut 

Take lddy to Sample, turn right 
~ 'BeAT HURR9CAKeS ~ 
SoathiiiMI 
on Walnut. 
232-2414 

~ ~
Banquet rooms available 
~ The ColonialPancake House iC
with option to create your own menu. Serving dinner at Spm Mon.· Sat. 
~ invitesyou to enjoy one ofour iC ~ . many breakfast specialties: t ~ OVEN BAKED APPLE PANCAKES~
Glasses Broken? 
~ AND OMELETTES! . ~ 
SAME DAY SERVICE
*Glass or Plastic LeiSIS*Silgle Yisi01 or M1ltifocal 
i $1 OFF :··i 
~ U~P ~ 
*OYer 600 FriiiiS 

University Center, 6502 Grape Road, Mishawaka, Indiana 
~ our famous applepancakes ~ 
Pbooe 21~2T1-2400-Open Mon.-Fri. ~9; Sat. t-5 
.. 
~ ~-~~ ~ 
~ . U.S. 31 (Dixieway) North in Roseland~ -openat 6am 7days aweek . ­
-······•***•··~····~ 

ofstupid" to keep the boy secluded. 
Officials have placed the family's five youngest children in state cus­tody. The others live away from home. 
Bernard Freemon, a 51-year-old mechanical engineer, said in a telephone interview that his son, Gerald Banholomew, known as 
"Bart," has "learning disabilities." 
Freemon said the boy has trouble retaining what he learns and could not be taught ro read despite repeated attempts by family mem­Dine among the antiques and bers. The father said he took Bart to a enjoy our view of the new downtown! doctor when he was "very small" but has not sought medical advice for the boy since then. Reservations Appreciated 234-9000 
The boy's parents were on vaca­121 South Niles South Bend tion when they learned the state had taken custody of their youngest children. They returned Thursday night. 
State officials declined today to respond to the father's account. ~ ~ Kane County state's attorney, 
~ ~ 
Robert Morrow, said he is investigat­
~ ~ ~ ~ 
The Observer 
Saturday. October 9, 1982 -page 6 


Eighth grader Dan Whalen rides his unicycle past picketing teachers in Waukegan, Illinois Thursday. The school district's 700 teachers went 
Undisclosed amount 
Avanti Motors sold to D.C. man 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. (AP) -A tion facilities and eventually hiring America, possibly the world, " he decade after falling in love with a up to 30 additional employees. said. used car, Washington, D.C., busi­The Avanti plant now employs 
The purchase price was not dis­nessman Stephen H. Blake has an­about 120 people and makes about closed, but a S3.5 million localnounced purchase of the Avanti 200 autos a year. 
economic development bond and a
Motor Corp., a manufacturer of Blake said the Avanti II, produced S1.9 million state loan guarantee arehandmade luxury automobiles since 1965, will continue to be involved in the financing.
based at South Bend. manufactured in South Bend. 
The Avanti carries a base price of Blake told a news conference here Arnold Altman, his late brother about S22,000, but the average that he intends to maintain Avanti's Nathan and the late Leo Newman model car sells for about $28,000. stanrdard of quality and said he has bought all the assets and rights re­
Blake, 38, president of AMW Inc. "been in love" with the car since quired to build the Avanti from the in Washington, said he plans to meet 1972 when he bought a used Avanti. Studebaker-Packard Corp. after that demand and gradually increase "It's the most beautiful and per· company stopped automobile production by improving produc-haps the safest, best built car in production in late 1964. 
' 

.. . Recovery 
continuedfrom page 1 
Council, "Nobody likes that kind of unemployment." Regan, however, stated flatly that "the recoven· is here." 
Asked whether he meant to make such a declaration, the Treasury secretary replied, ''I'll stand by that. 
... We see a recovery coming, and we think we're in that portion now, right at the start." 
On Capitol Hill, House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill Jr. directed the congressional Joint Economic Com­mittee, despite the election recess, to hold hearings on the state of the economy. 

American joblessness had been running at post-World War II record levels since last April when the pre­vious post-war high of 9.0 percent, established in May 1975, was shat­tered. Since the current recession took hold during the late summer of 1981, the national jobless rate has soared 2.9 percentage points, from 
7.2 percent to 10.1 percent. 
The bleak unemployment picture, 
however, did not compare with the 

kind of joblessness suffered during 
the depth ofthe Depression in 1933, 
when unemployment was at an an­
nual average of 24.9 percent of the 
labor force. 

Analysts with the Bureau of Labor 
Statistics noted that joblessness 
during that era of hard times in­
volved almost exclusively male 
heads ofhouseholds. In recent years, 
they said, there has been a substan­
tial surge in the number of women 
entering the labor force and 
competing for available work. 

Statisticians also noted that 
figures for the third quarter ending 
Sept. 30 showed that 59 percent of 
the unemployed Americans were in 
households in which there was at 
least one other wage-earner. 
Nonetheless, the latest figures produced post-war highs within several individual population categories. 

Blue-collar workers suffered a 
15.6 percent unemploymel!t rateha full percentage point gain from t e previous montli. Adult males saw 
their jobless rate soar from 8.9 per­
cent  to  9.6  percent.  Black  un­ 
employment  climbed  to  20.2  
percent.  
Joblessness  among  full-time  

workers jumped from 9.6 percent to 
10.1 percent and the rate for whites reached 9.0 percent. 
Largely because of the reopening of schools, unemployment among teen-agers eased from 24 percent to 
23.7 percent, while the rate among Hispanics held steady at 14.6 per­cent. 
Total employment declined from 
99.8 million to roughly 99.7 million. 

In a separate survey of non­agricultural payrolls, the bureau said employment plunged by 2~0,000 from August. In this category alone, nearly 2.4 million Americans have been thrown out of work since July 1981. Total overall unemployment 
has soared by 3. 7 million since the start ofthe recession. Regan, asked by reporters whether the administration deserves blame for the double-digit unemploy~ent rate, said, "I don't think that's a game I want to play ­who's responsible for what." In testimony to the Joint Economic Committee, Janet L. Nor­wood, commissioner of labor statis­tics, acknowledged that if the gross national product grows at the slug­gish levels now forecast, "we will have relatively high unemployment for many months." Both the U.S. Chamber of Com­merce and Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., called the new figures "ana­tional tragedy." 
.1 
,,; 
r! 
II I' 
,.I 
,, 
BEAT MIAMI 
Your NOTRE DAME CREDIT UNION And Their "LUCKY LEPRECHAUN" Wish The IRISH "GOOD LUCK"! 

Take a "LUCKY LEPRECHAUN" To The Game. Available for only $10.00 
At The ................ NOTRE DAME CREDIT UNION 


Observer News Special -Student Centers Saturday, October 9, 1982-page 7 
The Student Center Survey 
anObservernews special ­


Editor's note: Student Govern­ment representatives travelled to four university campuses last spring to access their social space andcompare it with thefacilities at Notre Dame. They visited student centers at Villanova, Vanderbuilt, Duke and Northwestern. Observer reporter Mary Ann McMorrow spoke witb Maureen Burns and 
john Gallagher, who took part in the study. They offered the follow­ing observations about their ex­periences. 
Q:Do we need a student center at Notre Dame? 
A: (Bums) I would think that we need one. We'll always need one. The problem here is that student life is so concentrated. You get tired of having something in only one quad or one dorm. This place needs a central place where people can go to relax and socialize. 
Q: Some administrators claim that we don't use the facilities we have at ND. Do you think there would be a difference in people's responses if we bad a new student center? 
A: (Bums) We sent out an ex· tensive survey last year. Lafortune 
doesn't serve the purpose of a stu· dent center. The Engineering Auditorium is a poor excuse for a movie theatre ...the Huddle is a poor excuse for fast food. Stepan Center, the ACC and the Rock are constantly being used. We'd like to see more stuffgoing on in the dining halls. All we can do right now is just 
bits and pieces. 
Q: What was the reaction ofthe trustees to your report on the spring trip? 
A: (Bums) Well, when we took our report to the trustees, we took it to a certain group of them. All they could do is listen to us and then bring it to the larger group of trus­tees. The response of the student af­fairs group was really positive. 
Q: What campuses did you visit and what were the student centers like at those schools? 
A: (Burns) We visited Northwes· tern, Villanova, Vanderbilt, Duke, and the University of Illinois at Chicago Circle. Northwestern had a pretty building with a view of the lake. But it was more of a university building than a student center. A lot of the students kind of felt shunned by it because it was more for up· 
perclassmen. Every room you walked into had this gorgeous view of the lake. They had lockers for all student clubs. 

Duke's center had just opened up two weeks before we got there so the mass population was confused as to what to do with this big building. It wasn't that physically attractive to the students. It was kind of cold. It had six pillars with a lot of open space. There weren't that many people around. They had student offices there, but the people hadn't moved in yet. (Gallagher) The theatrical equipment was amazing. They had a huge theatre for plays which took up only about a third of the center. Duke has a bar on campus, a lot like the old senior bar here. It's right in the middle of the campus. It's a place where students, teachers, and administrators will come. It was such a congenial atmos­
phere. Duke also serves beer in the dining halls. 
(Burns) We talked to the students 
when we went to these places. We 
asked them about alcohol abuse. 
Duke doesn't think it's a problem. 
Vanderbilt's center was really 
nice, too. They have good weather 
there, and of course they capitalize 
on that. They have a lot of things 
geared to the outdoors. The center 
is ideallv located near the center of 
campus.' We need a place that stu­
dents have to pass on their way to 
their classes and dorms. The 24­
hour section in the middle of the 
first floor was a good idea. Vander­
bilt students are a lot richer than stu­
dents at Notre Dame. 
Each ofthese schools has different 
needs to fill with their student cen­
ters. , 
(Gallagher) What Villanova did 
would be a good idea for us. Every· 
thing that's in LaFortune now would 
stay in LaFortune. There's no variety 
at the Huddle and once you do buy 
something there, there's nowhere to go and eat it. 
What every one of these student centers had in common ""as that there were students there all during the day, between and after classes. Lafortune is usually only busy at lunchtime. 
(l* : 
\ .J;; .: 
Otherstudent centers topic of spring trip 
By MIKE KRISKO 
News Staff 

A group representing Notre Dame spent spring break last semes· ter visiting Northwestern, Villanova, Duke and Vanderbilt Univer· sities to determine how they answered campus social needs. 
The group consisted of three Notre Dame students and Students Activities DirectorJames McDonnell. The trip lasted five days. Due to a rigorous travel schedule, time was usually limited to a fews hours on each campus. 
The group spent the bulk ofavailable time at the student centeron each campus, usually eating lunch with the student activities direc· tor. 
·They met informally with students, discussing campus social life and use oftheir center. 
Northwestern's Norris Center was the first stop. Burns was impressed with the view of Lake Michigan from the center. "I per· sonally have a love for water," she said. 
Villinova's Connolly Center was a vast, open building that had a very friendly atmosphere. 
"The people there were really friendly," Bums said. "The prevail­ing atmosphere reminded me of the atmosphere here at Notre Dame." 
Burns thinks Duke has a beautiful campus. Both she and Gallagher agreed that it was like walking down the South Quad at Notre Dame. Duke's Bryan Center was in the midst ofcampus, which the group considered the ideal place for a student center. "A student center should be an integral part ofeverday life," Burns said. "A central location allows this." Bums rates Vanderbilt's Sarrot Center dining facilities as excel­lent. Sarrot features an outdoor terrace overlooking a quad. She thought it would be a good idea for Notre Dame, "especially with our beautiful quads." 
As a result oftheir informative study and the compilation oftheir data, Student Government Public Relations Representative Ray Wise hopes the group will help the Board of Trustees achieve a better understanding of the needs of the student body. "We are working with the University," he stressed. 
Included in the report to the board is information that may help explore the need for a new student center at Notre Dame. 
Currentspace UJorkable, saysNDadtninistrator 
ByTHOMASPACE Stepan Center. "This could function 
as a dance hall for events such as the 'screw-your-roommate' functions, Students may be "second guess· or even as a disco," he noted. ing" their need for a student center. One Notre Dame student who Physical Plant Director Donald wishes to remain anonymous dis­Dedrick thinks existing facilities can agrees with Dedrick's conclusions. He cited the lack ofsocial space as 
News Staff 

· be renovated to meet the demands a primary cause for the increasing al­
ofthe student body. cohol problem among Notre Dame
"Let's look at the whole picture," students.
Dedrick said. "There's a heck ofa lot 
"Perhaps if we had some more
ofsocial space on campus." 

space to socialize, we wouldn't see
Dedrick cited the Nazz, Chautau­
students doing things like waxing
qua and the new Senior-Alumni Club 
the furniture in their dorms, which 
as examples ofsocial space present­
is supposedly rehabilitating."
ly available. 
Although many students agree

As LaFortune is remodelled, 
that Notre Dame lacks social space,

Dedrick sees the possibility of con­
they rarely concur on what is
structing separable rooms there. 
needed.

He added that LaFortune's 
Dedrick stressed that "a very

Chautauqua has a dance floor 
clear-cut inventory and definite idea 
available for student use. 

of what would be housed in the Dedrick suggested adding a proposed new space" are needed portable wooden dance floor for before anything can be started. 
Sarratt Student Center at Vanderbilt Villanova University's Connelly Center 
........ 
~-----~--r------------------~--------------~-------­
p 'j
: 
................................................................................ ····••t 


l 
1 
J 
;. 


:'.::. 


vironment. See how these two walls 
are symmetrical with the rest of the 
building -I'm not sure but I think 
that. the light is supposed to shine 
through that one with the circle in it 
in a special way." 

"Oh _.. I see?!" I really didn'tfee/ 
anything from these curious 

obelisks -hut I will respect Kt:n's 
inspiration. 

Moving down the south wall I am stopped hy a number of kilns stand­ing empty -awaiting to be tilled with ceramic creations and fired full blast All they remind me ofare some curiously primative looking dutch <wens made oftreated white hrick. A huge ventilation system drapes over these monstr<lcities to suck up any foul aroma or smoke erupted during the hake. Inside the second kiln there are the remains of pots that must have blown-up during the high temperature cooking. It's as though they were left to spite the kiln for ruining their work for naught Such vengeance the artist has! 
Ahhh, the sculpture arena is ahead. Queer construction that could pass as defaced material stand in viewing1splendor f(>r ... well for anyone who cares to view them. Looking down at the tloor I notice that this is the remnant of the old wooden basketball floor. The top of the key in the east side of the court now serves as an aisle to the various 
studios in either side. A girl is stand­ing in one ofthe work areas knead­ing a block freshly-mixed clay. "Excuse me, do you happen to know when this building is to ht: renovated?'" I askt'd. "Well," she said, 
"it's not going to be renovated ... it's going to he torn down. All art stu­dents have been asked to han:' their stuffout of here hy Christmas hreak. We're going to ht.· reloctted to the old science hall next to ()'Shaughnessy." 
"How does this afk<.:t you'" I asked stupidly. "Well, It really is a shame to lose all this space. I mean. look at this place' There is so much excellent space and natural lighting (mostly from holes in the roof) ­I'm really going to miss this feeling ofopenness." 
And from this I found what was so appealing about the old rieldhouse to these art students. Sure it's dusty, sure it's old -hut the Fieldhouse is itselfan environment within an en­vironment. hom within this huge run-down structure there exists a feeling ofopennes:-. and freedom that those artist~ nlTd to enhace their crt.·at ions. So the roofleaks, and there arl' bricks missing from the walls, and it's dusty. So it's not the most beautiful constnt<.·tion on campus and it"s not particularly in­triguing as an architectural wondt·r -hut it'~ ~patial freedom is the medium from which these artist:-. can create. It is a backdrop of no rl·s t ri<.:t ions. 
Saturday, October 9, 1982 -page 8 .,. 
Co you came to Notre Dame to 
Jbecome an artist. Interesting! 
Why? That's not important It could 
be from that enlightening first paragraph in the Bulletin ofIn· fonnation under "Art: Under­
graduate programs in art introduce 
the student to the creative activities 
ofthe artist and designer as well as to 
the history ofart." What also should 
be included in this brief( very brier.) 
description is that the under-
Jetty Young 

featutes 
graduate program in art introduce:-. 
the student to that antiquated 
edifice positioned between the 
Lafortune Student Center and the 
Memorial Library -the old 
Fieldhouse. 

I was.put "on assignment" to try and capture a layman's aesthetic in­terpretation ofthis unusual artists' workshop. Aside from a numher of interesting doodles created in the margins ofnotes as a relief from some less than interesting lectures. I am a layman in the world ofart. But layman or expert. an adequate ex­egesis of this unusual f~tcility i:-. dif­ficult 
I decided to start my analysis of the Fieldhouse from a vantage point in the bleacher seats ofthe nice loud and boisterous student section in the far west side of the art'na. About all that remains now are light rows of clay dusted, splinter infestt'd bench seats that look over a field ofart ex­hibit:-. and se;:ctional studios. Do you like;: ceramics' Good. because the bulk of the once indoor track and basketball arena consists of numerous shelves and partitioned studios ofpots and howls and canis­ters and vases and poUlTS whed:-.. and drop cloths, and day tub n:n:p­tacles. Oh, but you prder ~.culpture. Well, north of this ceramic han.:n there lies a population of half­sculpted facades awaiting thl·ir 
creator to add the final touches. In one such mass there are 1~ assorted busts covered with dampened towels to preserve the cosmetic consistency ofthe clay until the art­ist returns. Music from the \X"S:\'1>­FM classical station tills the air and adds a feeling ofserious intent -hut there are but a handful ofserious ar­tists en·n in the vicinity. 
I have now dc<:ided to venture dowu into the arena. My first en­counter b with two ten-f(>ot retain­ing walls jutting up in the middle of the west t.•ntratKl' to thi~ worbhop. "Excuse me," I said. "Can you tell me what thl'Sl" wall:-. are for;.. 
"Oh. thne arc the walb that a guy named 1'-l·n built last \Tar. Ik had an in..,piration: he dccided to make by hand these bricks and to constntel a sort ofenvironml·nt wtthin an en­
_..,,.\. 
~·.· 
;if. 


I 
find it difficult to imagine being tcated m memory of the first youth who were living there at sent to college for four years to graduate ofSaint Mary's to send her time. The house has three learn how to run a household. Yet, daughter here. bedrooms, including a "mistres Saint Mary's once had a program to The house was once used as a bedroom," a sewing room, livin do just that. Perhaps we can blame "practice house" for the Home room, dining room, and bar anc the origin oftheMRS degree to that Economics majors. The seniors lived room. Ofcourse, the house wo1 era. Today, I think that a Home there. Try and imagine living in not be complete without a mod Economics degree would he hard to Madeleva or O'Shaughnessy for a kitchen where all ofus women live down. With Daddy going to semester. The degree ofcomfort in planning to spend most ofour t Notre Dame and Mommy going to the Riedinger House is substantially once we graduate! 
higher, ofcourse. but the classroom 
The Home Economics progr~
atmosphere would still be hanging 
ended in 1965 (thank goodnes~
Lauta Hattigan 
over your head. What a dreadful 
Then, Fr. McGrath, the presider
thought! . 
the college, resided in the hous
The students took such classes as 
til his death in 1970. Five years I
Meal Planning, Tailoring and Cloth­
the Alumnae Board approachecfeatures ing Selection -a course in etiquette Duggan with plans to make the
in dress for all occasions. (I wonder 
house a hospitality center. Dr. I Saint Mary's (a match made in if they wore pink and green in the gan went along with the idea an'heaven), eldest son and daughter at 40's, too.) I cannot help but try to Board agreed to refurbish the he
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's (what predict what wise cracks we would a family!), I would find it all too receive from the Notre Dame men if 
Today, owned by the college"cute" for my mother to have we were enrolled in the same classes 
run by the Alumnae Board, the selected a major in Home today. We would be labelled blow­
house serves as a guest home fc Economics. Thank goodness for the offs, airheads, and domesticated and 
to six people. Saint Mary's has c Business program. goal-less idiots wasting Daddy's 
a long way since those days, bu Although the Home Ec program money to find the proverbial hubby. nevertheless nice to have a pie(ended in 1965, we still have a taste Isuspect that today the expectations nostalgia to add to the beauty o ofit on campus today. No, we did ofwomen students are somewhat 
campus. There are so many not come to Saint Mary's with the in­different than they were in the mid-
stereotypes surrounding Saint tention of finding "Mr. Right" and 1900s. 
Mary's students; people seem t< learning to he a housewife. What I 
When I toured the house, I ways want to know why. Perha] am referring to is that mysterious noticed that the ceilings and door­
glance back to the past can helJ: cottage tucked away between ways were much lower than in an answer that question. O'Laughlin and Regina Hall. The average house. The house was not Any student or group wishinl Adaline Crowley Riedinger House built on a full scale It was huilt on a see the house should contact th was erected in 1939. It was ded-smaller one to meet the needs ofthe Alumnae Office. 

' ................. 

them? .'\1e, I'm in the hest of health, and Inever eat green stuff 
Green food is often obnoxiously noisy. Have you ever noticed ·that? You'll he sitting in the dining hall, quietly enjoying your usual dinner ofpudding. cake. and ice cream, and somefool sitting next to you will blatantly "crunch" and "crackle" and "crisp" his celery, cucumbers, lettuce, and gret:n peppers. dis gust­ing. To make matters worse, upon finishing he will proceed, not to dessert, like any relatively sane per­son, oh no; instead he will advance to the salad bar for seconds! By this time the rude fool will have ef. fectively destroyed any appetite you may have once possessed. 
A solution to this dilemma, ifone has experienced this type of loss of appetite once too often. and provid­ing ofcourse that one has the money, is to limit ont.·selfto Hudllle Gour­met. I can almost guarantee you no one eating at the Huddle will have the audacity to chomp his celery. There is a very good reason for this; the Huddle does not serve any great 
profusir:y ofgreen food. Rah, Huddle. 

If one does order something at the 
Huddle (other than perhap~ 
mint'n'chip ice cream) Jnd the or­
der arrives green in nature, one 
should not, I repeat, not, eat it. 
In addition to being noisy, green food tends to be downright un­American and un-Domer. As a patriotic American and Domer, I believe strongly in the e<lflsumption of red, white, blue, and gold food. Especially gold. Beer is gold and Twinkies are gold. What more could any real American/Domer wish for? 
On the other hand, if one does desire varietv, red, white, and blue foods are certainly acceptable. Cher­ry, strawberry, or blueberry flavored C:Jkes and rlesserts with perhaps a 
creamy white icing are all definitely 
"in". 

At this point I betieve Ishould mention the inevitable exceptions to the rule ofavoiding green food. As mentioned, mint'n'chip ice cream is allowed. Green candies, ifnot made from anv form of"natural" food, are also allo-wed. These are the only twc 

I 
don't eat green tood. It isn't as ifl have any kind of phobia about green food; I just don't eat it. Basical­ly, I avoid green food because Ithink it's a somewhat nauseating color to consume. 
Joanie Schlehubet 
featutes 

All kinds ofanimals like cows and giraffes consistently eat green food. Personally, I have no desire to look like either. And the most skillful argument would probably fail to convince me that a Notre Dame stu­dent is the equivelent ofa cow or giraffe. 
Several friends seem to think there are some exceptional nutri­tional benefits in food that is green. "Green vegetables contain protein," they argue, "essential for building up immunities." But I am not fooled. One friend has a cold; anothec a cough. Now wh~!"::, inay I ask, were :~~ir immunities when they needed 
,............................................................................................ 
The Observflr Features Section 




ri:~\~~~:~;; ~i:~~r~eere at the ,,,,1, L~ 
bedrooms, including a "mistress bedroom," a sewing room, living room, dining room, and bar and TV . room. Ofcourse, the house would · not be complete without a modern kitchen where all of us women are planning to spend most ofour time once we graduate! 
The Home Economics program ended in 1965 (thank goodness!). Then, Fr. McGrath, the president of the college, resided in the house un­til his death in 1970. Five years later, the Alumnae Board approached Dr. Duggan with plans to make the house a hospitality center. Dr. Dug­gan went along with the idea and the Board agreed to refurbish the house. 
Today, owned by the college and run by the Alumnae Board, the house serves as a guest home for up to six people. Saint Mary's has come a long way since those days, but it is nevertheless nice to have a piece of nostalgia to add to the beauty ofthe 
campus. There are so many stereotypes surrounding Saint Mary's students; people seem to al­ways want to know why. Perhaps a glance back to the past can help answer that question. 
Any student or group wishing to see the house should contact the Alumnae Office. 
-._i., -­

T 
.,..-.. 
does order something at the le (other than pt:'rhap~ t'chip ice cream) and the or­~ives green in nature, one I not, I repeat, not. eat it. 
ddition to being noisy, green ends to be downnght un­can and un-Domer. As a tic American and Domer, I e strongly in the consumption 
white, blue, and gold food. ally gold. Beer is gold and ies are gold. What more could al American/Domer wish t(>r~ 
the other hand, if one does 
variety, red, white, and blue tre certainly acceptable. Cher­wherry, or blueberry flavored me:' rlesserts with perhaps a ~· white icing are all definitely 
1is point I believe I should Dn the inevitable exceptions rule ofavoiding green food. As [)ned, mint'n'chip ice cream is :d. Green candies. if not made mv form of"natural" food, are lo.wed. These are the only tw<. 
exceptions :';64 days of the year. On one day ofthe year, St. Patrick's Day, the consumption of many green foods is almost desirable. However, one must again remember to stick only with those foods and heverages whose natural color is not green. A personal favorite on this day is green beer. All are encouraged to try. 
There is one type of unnaturally green food one should never pur­pously consume, not even on St. Patrick's Day. This is food that is green hecause it is underripe or overripe. Green tomatoes, green bananas, and green Twinkies all fall into this category. Also blue cheese; no one should eat mold, regardless ofits color. 
While I have discussed at length many a'ipects ofavoiding green food, there are actually just a few im­portant guidelines. For those with short or impaired memories, I ask only that you remember -now this is very important -one thing. At all costs, whatever else you may do, stay away from the Salad liar'" Bon apetit. 
A t 6:45pm. each evening, my hec­.l"l.J:ic, erratic, and often frantic pace comes to a screeching halt as I become enveloped in and enthralled by the serene and sooth­ing words ofthe rosary, 
Carol Camp 

features 
After frequently frustrating days consisting ofclasses, deadlines, meetings, and similar activities, this calm moment becomes a focal point: indeed. it is not at all unlike the passage ofa hurricane. Just as the hurricane's eye bridges the gap be­tween the storm's onslaught and its moment ofgreatest intensity, my daily trek to the grotto enables me to forget about multiple choice tests with fourteen possible options while providing me with the motiva­tion needed to fulfill my respon­sibilities. 
I 

My pilgrimage begins as I venture 
from the familiarity ofNorth Quad 
and the dining hall to the unknown 
realm ofSouth Quad and the shore 
ofSt. Joseph's lake. As I hurriedly 
progress from quad to quad, my vi­
sion and my mind become aware of 
the tranquility inherent in the early 
evening hours: the sun casts its oran­
gish glow on the gently rippling 
waters,the waters become a palette 
ofcolor reflecting the changing hues 
ofthe trees' leaves, and the newly 
fallen leaves are crunched beneath 
my topsider-ed feet which are 
making their most valiant effort to 
get me to my destination at the 
proper time. 
As I scurry down the steps, I catch my breath and breathe a sigh ofrelief that (for once) my watch is running on time. Immediately, my eyes begin scanning the faces ofthe small group ofindividuals with whom I will be celebrating this ancient tradition. In their eyes, I see a myriad ofper­sonalites, experiences, and abilities which are relfected in the candles' flickering yellow flames. The soft 
A sk a restdent of~t. Ed·~ lO name .n.the oldest dorm on campus and inc:Yitahh. he'll !'ay if~ ~t. Ed's. Ask a resident ofSorin College the same qu<.·stion and he'll no douht respond that Sorin is the l ni\·ersity's oldest 
So whom do you believ,.;. 
Dave Dvorak 
features 
:'\;either. Contrary to popuiar opinion, the l'niversity's oldest rt·:-.idt:n(·e hall is actually a small brick building by the name ofOld College. :\lever heard of it' You're not alone. 
"itu<Hcd on Saint .\1an 'sLake he· hind the architecture building. Old College has tlw appctrance not of a dorm_ hut of a dollhouse. Its neat. well-kept Ltcade indic·ates that it ha~ wqhswod the te~t of time rcmarkah· h \.\Til. With ib I I hc:droom~. the hu Ilt!mg accon;modatcs Jll~l I (l ... tu­t!c!ll". making it not only the oldot, hur also the smalle.,l residence hall 
on ~.:.unpu~. 
Considered to ht:' the: l niversitv·s :lr~t building, Old Collc:gc: wa~ t;Hindcd in I H-L~ hv the lloh Cros~ 
. . '\ rr 1t her.,. The..· brick~ of i!!'> walls \\Trc made..· ofcla\ taken from Saint '~.tn ·.., L.tkc..·. Origitully. the t:'lltir<.· collt-ge wa~ contained \\·ithin thi~ l'uilding. All ac·tivities. including classt·s. meals. and resrdence living 
I took place tht-re. Toda,·, Old College "t·n·c~ a much more specialized 
purpo~<.·. 
·<>It! College is a combination 'c.:minan -dormiton tor thos<.· young n1en who h:-el that (;od may he call­ing them to religious nJCations," ex­plairwd Brother Paul l.oos. esc. \\ ho. togc.·thc.·r with Father_lanw~ I 1;111igan. <:. .... <... conduch th<.· first 't·.tr 'c•nin.trian program. 
In order to gain .tdrnittance to the d11nn. a 'tmknt mu'l first apply to thc I 111\Cfstt\·~ \'lJGitlon~ dirc..Ttor. 
Saturday, October 9, 1982-page 9 
murmur ofgreeting voices aug­ments the intensity of the glowing flames,filling the darkness' void with warmth and light. 
My thoughts are temporarily in­terrupted as I am greeted by Brother John, who gives me a smile and a song sheet (unaware ofmy lack of musical ability). As I cast a final glance to see whetheror not anyone else has joined our group, the bell tolls, and my eyes pause upon the luminescent image ofOur Lady. As I listen to the Scriptural accounts of the mysteries, the memory offorgot­ten commitments and deadlines is replaced by the hope oftomorrow. As I count the succession ofprayers on my fingers (my rosary, like my heart, is at home in Houston), I gain the strength and tranquility needed to tackle upcoming assignments and challenges. 
After the final prayer has been humbly and sincerely murmured, I say my good-byes and ascend the steps, prepared for the storm's swirl­ing winds to engulfbut not to ravage 
my spirit. 

explaining lm. consid<.-ration ofa religious \ocation. The student then take-. part in a ~eric·~ of inten·iew.... 
v. hich ultimate(\ determine \dH:ther till' student will he ad­mJttnl to Old College 
"Our students her<.· are not ju~t a local sampling... com11wned Br. Pau! "\X·e han: re-.itknt" from all across the countrY-litc·r;llh· from coast to 
. . 
coast 

Jim ( .rt-c:ne. a sophonHJrt:' resident 
from \;<.·w llampshirc:, li\·ed in Fisher 
; I all during his freshman year. He ex 
plained his decision to tranter to Old 
College: 

··t wanted to find out if! have a 
Yocation for the priesthood without 
cutting myselfoft from campus life 
and from other possible carec:r 
chuic-c:s," (ireene said. "It's a very 
loosely structured setup that keeps 
all opportunities open... 
lk added that there ar<.· disad­
\antages to li,·ing in :'\;otre Dame's 
smallest dorm. 

"It takes a greater effort to get in­
,·olved in activities and to meet 
people. .\lost studetHs don·t even 
know what or wht:'re Old Col leg<.· i~. 
l"\t:' talked to people who actually 
thought that th<.· building was a pum· 
phousc." 

The dailv routine ofan Old Col­
lege resident is the same as that of 
am· other :'\Jotre Dame student, with 
a kw exceptions. The day hegins 
with a morning prayer service and 
ends with .\1ass at Log Chapel. Each 
oft!le residents is required to take 
part in an active apostolate, which is 
any one ofa wide: variety ofweekly 
.,ervice projects. lfe is also required 
to meet with a spiritual director of 
his choice at least once a month to 
rc·ceive counseling and spiritual 
guidance 

After living one year in Old Col­lc:ge. the student must decide whc:tht·r or nor he still whhcs to pursut" hi~ religious vocation. If so, he continue., hh education at nearhv .\loreau ~eminan· Although not all n:sidc:nts make this choice, this cer­
tainly does not mean the time spent 
at Old College was wasted time. 
"We've helped produce a lot of 
vc:ry fine husbands hc:re." said Br. 
Paul. "The idea ofliving together in a 
dose-knit community is a good ad­
justment that makes us all better 
people." 

Br. Paul further emphasized, "Old 
Colleg<.· residents arc: no different 
than anv other ;..Jotrc Dame stu­
dents. The,· arc involved in all kinds 
of campus cluhs and activities. they 
are required to take the sanw 

classn. ami tliey eat tlw same food . (at <.;outh Dining llall. )" 
··old C:olkge is a nice halh••ay 
house hc:tween sc:minary and dorm 
life ... said.John Shr<.·-.e, a sophomore 
from California. ",\lorning prayc:r 
;111d dailv .\las~ keep the guy~ IH:n: 
realh close. \Xc have our dift(:rences 
and our personalit~ clashn, but. all 
in all. we're a very clos<.· group." 
~hren· also spoke of the .ad­
,·antage of being exposed to mem­
hc:rs of the dc:rgy in a unique: way. 
"\X'e get to know the: priests a.'> 
tricnds and atldress tht:'m on a first­
name hasis,.. he rc:Iated. "They tdl us 
~to ric:~ of what they went throu~h. 
and these ar<.· often the exact same 
situations that we tind ourselves in." 
:\'lost of the students Iiving in Old 
C:olkg<.· have not yet determined 
their future plans 

"!think mo~t ofthe people ht:'re 
are far from adefin itc: decision ahout 
entering the priesthood," summed 
up Jim <ireene, "but at least we're 
getting the chance to explore the 
possibility. We're meeting people 
who can help us make our decision. 
Right now, I'm taking things year by 
year, semester hy semester." 
.\lcanwhile. the Cniversiry·s old­est huilding stands humbly yet firm­ly on the shores ofSaint Mary's l.ake, where it has stood for 140 years. Aging t·ver so slowly, it pt:acefully watch<.·s as lime passes year hy year, s<:me~ter h' sem<.·.ster. 
----~-------------------------------------------­
Editorials 
Saturday, October 9, 1982 -page 10 
Co-ed dorms: over whose dead body? 

The prospect ofco-ed dormatories at Notre Dame seems fanciful, if not downright absurd. Too many still believe that such dorms are merely a front for orgiastic living. With an ad­
., ministration that distrusts the student body far more than most of our parents ever did, co-ed living seems better suited for the year 2002 than 1982. Nonetheless, the University should consider the co-ed option in the future. 
Keith Picher Short of Profundity 
Notre Dame now enters its eleventh year of coeducation (or perhaps more accurately hi­education). Though alumni and administra· tion were once steadfastly opposed to admitting women to. the University, both eventually acquiesced. Co-ed dorms face a similar fortune. With enough support they will one day be given a chance, but what solace does this offer the student currently en­rolled? When the administraation is forced to choose between serving the interests of the students, appeasing the alumni, or promoting 
Last Wednesday Dr. Gerhart Niemeyer, un­der the auspices of the Thomas More Society gave a fascinating lecture on socialism. His ap­proach to this controversial subject was refreshing; rather than taking oo a quasi-moral air, or pitting socialism against capitalism, Dr. Niemeyer examined this curious phenomenon from a historical point of view. It soon became apparent during the lecture that the central difficulty in discussing socialism lay in the fact the no one seems to a~ree on just what socialism is. 
Brendan Brown 

Perspective 
Well, the renowned Russian mathe­matician, Igor Shafarevich, has done what is probably the most compelling study of the subject, entitledThe SocialistPhenomenon, a
I 
I condensed version of which appears in a col­lection ofessays,From Under the Rubble. The
·~ 
book examines socialism from several aspects 
in an effort to account for the special quality of
f 
socialism to withstand serious criticism. How 
:j 
is it that those who call themselves socialists 
l 
disagree so vehemently on so many points? Some people call themselves Christian socialists, and yet Marx claimed that socialism was the positive denial of God. Stalin was a socialist, but so was Hitler. One thing is cer­
l ( 
tain, that socialism is much more than just "state capitalism," and an economic plan to
I 
help the poor. Socialism is an ideology that 
can, like religion, mix with any political, cul­
tural, or nationalist movement. 

I 
But what exactly is socialism? According to Shafarevich, the myriads of socialist move­
:I 
ments all over the world both now and in the
l'j 
past have a common denominator: a profound
I 
I 
' I hostility to variety or, if you will, an·impulse toward uniformity, which, in its purest form, calls "for the destruction of the family, of 
religion, and of private property. But even 
:I\ 
these goals are modified according to the cir­cumstances; thus it was in Italy that Fascism
! 
could only maintain a symbolic hostility to the ·
I 
I church, while in Albania religion was totally ! prohibited, and the world's first atheist state 
' 
i was proclaimed. 
; I Instead of dwelling on the tyranny of ~ modern socialist countries or the glaring dis­crepancies between socialist ideals and party policy, Shafarevich examines socialism in his­
' 
a "Christian" image, the students' interests in­variably will be compromised. 
Notre Dame must support Christian values, but distinguishing morally rolerahle and in­tolerable behavior can be very difffucult. No longer does the Roman Catholic Church han books (we've left that business to the fun­damentalists), forbid us to eat meat on Fridays, or insist that cremation is a moral evil. No longer do seminaries instruct their semi­narians to avoid talking to the laity or to tuck their shirts in with ping-pong paddles. No lon­ger does Notre Dame have a lights-out policy, or require students to sign-in early in the morning to encourage attendance at mass. So what assurance do we have that policies jus­tified in the name of Christ are really Chris­
tian? More specifically, why does the 
administration consider co-ed living contrary 
to the image which Notre Dame tries to up­
hold? 

Men and women alike realize that coeduca­
tion has yet to be fully realized at Notre Dame. 
Many women complain that they are treated 
as second class citizens. When men begin to 
see women less as those strange beings "over 
there" and more as human beings who eat, 
sleep, struggle, and feel many of the  same  
ways  men  do,  coeducation  will  have  
succeeded.  

Co-ed dorms could help to destroy these fantastic illusions which one sex may have of the other. Men who see dreary-eyed girls pul­ling all-nighters will quicky forget the stereotypes they hold, and begin to treat women more like human beings and less like objects. Similarly, women could learn much from living in the same hall with men. 
DuLac says that coeducation "allows men and women to contribute to one another's education and to form genuine friendships." But coeducation as it exists today, often falls short of these goals. Men tend to watch televi­sion, eat lunch, and associate with men as do women with women. This is not because they despise each other, but because our friendships tend to develop through everyday contact in dorms or activities than through parties, or other artificial environments. Co­ed dorms could provide a genuine education­al opportunity to any who would give them a chance. 
So why is it that the words co-ed dorm scandalize so many? Privacy would naturally 
Socialism versus Christianity 
tory both as a theorv and as a social structure. 
Shafarevich then discussed practical at­
tempts at socialism such as occurred in an­
cient China under Shang Yang and the Ch'in 
dynasty. 

Socialism in theory and practice can boast of so much variety, longevity, and durability because it proceeds from a basic instinct which tends towards the destruction of in­dividuality or personal identity. No one un­derstood this better than Dostoyevsky who 
created his legend ofthe Grand Inquisitor as a synthesis of the fundamental ideals of socialism. In light of these claims, which Shafarevich works out in painstaking detail, we can see how socialism is incompatible with Christianity, indeed, socialism may be properly understood as the antithesis ofChris­tianity. Christianity proclaims a personal God, individual salvation, and the continuation of the soul's identity afterlife. By contrast, socialism is characterized by pantheism or at· heism, orworse ~till, by a universal movement 
toward nothingness. 
It is not surprising then that underneath the 
socialists' human nature lurks inhuman 
cruelty. Marx, for example, foresaw fifty years 
of all out civil war for the triumph of the 
proletariat, while Mao was ready to accept the 
loss of half of humanity in a nuclear work for 
the sake of establishing world socialism (a 
point which those who support unilateral 
;I 
I 
r 
I:';:t'i.I 
~~~ 
,. 
., '' ~ 

become a greater concern, but those who feel 
too· uncomfortable with co-ed life could still 
choose to live in a single sex dorm. Others 
worry that such dorms would invite sexual 
promiscuity. Three responses should suffice. 
First, parietals do not currently separate those 
who want to be together; breaking parietals is 
an everyday occurence at Notre Dame. 
Secondly, co-ed dorms should decrease the 
objectification of women, making relation­
ships more genuine and less superficial. Third­
ly, we are all individuals who are ultimately 
responsible for our own behavior. Historical­
ly, the University has been unwilling to 
recognize this fact, and still does not trust the 
individual in moral affairs. Even military and 
Ivy League schools have codes ofhonor which 
place moral responsibility on the shoulders of 
the individual. We should be concerned that 
our administration has so little faith in us. 
Co-ed living is not in itself immoral or in­
consistent with the Christian values which 
Notre Dame upholds, and in some senses it 
seems preferable to the status quo. I can only 
hope that one day the University will place 
some pure trust in the students. While such 
dorms are not a panacea, they seem to be a 
legitimate step toward easing the male/female 
tensions which pervade our campus. 
nuclear disarmament should consider). 
It is difficult to do justice to a book of this dimension, The Socialist Phenomenon is must-reading for everyone. For socialists who lament the moribund state of contemporary Marxism, it offers valuable insights into the decline of Marxism and the form socialism must take to complete its task of reducing mankind to the condition of ants; for Chris­
tians who must work to transform the world, it explains the gravity ofthe present crisis, the resolution ofwhich, claims Shafarevich, could lead man to a higher level of creativity and spirituality, or bring about his ultimate destruction. 
-
.fiFc_..g:­
f­
........-­
/ 

/ 
\ 

The Oh•erz·er is an independent new,paper publt:-.hed by th<: students of the 
Editor-in-Chief......... .................... :\1ichael Monk Business .Umzuger ..........................Tony Aiell1 
llnl\er,ity of Notre Dame du LJ.c .1nd Saint Mary\ College. It does r.ot n<.'\·e-.-.J.rdy Managing Editor . .............. Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller ....... ..................................Eric Schul. refkd the polH w~ of the admmi~trJ.tiOII of either institution. The nL-w~ ~~ r<:port Executive Neu·s Editvr.........................Kdli Flim Adz•ertisin!( Matw!(er......... .............Chris Owc1 cd J'i ,,.curately and H ohlt'l.ltvdy as l'<hslhle. Ed1tonals repre-;ent the op•~'llon of SMC Executiz1e Editor............:\targarel Fosmoe Production Manager....... ... \laura .\1urph~ .1 ma,onty of the Ed1tori-.tl Hoard Co,nment.lrlc'>. opinions anJ letters are the views •1iports Editor........... .......................Chris ~ccdles Circu/atio1l Mmzal(er .... . ........... Ray lngli1 of th(·lr author~. Column spale I'> J\ad.1bk to all lll('111bcr.; of the lOmmumty. and Editorials Editor ............................. Paul .\tdiinn .\)•stems .Wanager ......................... Bruce Oaklt" the frre expre'ision of varymg opiniOns on campu), through lrtters, u. enLounged. Features Editor ...................................Tari Brown 
Photo Editor ....................... ........... Rachel Blount 
Founded November 3, 1966 
P.O.Box Q. Notre Dame, IN -16SS6 (1.19) l.i9-S:~O.\ 

Editorial Board 
Department Managers 

•I 
-1 
= 
The Observer -Editorials Saturday. 0ctoher 9, 1982 -page 11 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
= a = p 
Higher education means higher achievement or high school 
The NBC Nightly l\lews this pao;t week presented a segment on the stark comparisons of japanese, Soviet and American ninth· graders in their respective educational en­vironments. Frankly, their findings sufficiently nauseated me to speak out on the apparent "head-in-the-~and" attitude the American public adheres to in times when the education of today's youth becomes a secondary con­
cern. 
Gregory Swiercz 
After Class 

Scenes depicting students in classes dominated the segment, with the narrator stating the "facts" about each student: a typi­cal day's activities, the assigned courses, and the philosophies behind the national educa­tional systems. 
It is no surprise that the United States is dis­mally lagging when education is mentioned. Japan wants to lead the world in technology and in those educated in related fields by the year 2000. If anyone doubts this is so, look at the electronic equipment sold in American stores. The sayingMade injapan has taken on new significance since that nation's tech­nological push began after World War II. 
Quad eyesore 

DearEditor, 
We, the concerned students of the tower quad, are very proud of the beauty of the landscaping between the towers and the Pasquerillas; however, a vile and disgusting eyesore, which brings tears to our eyes, has recently been erected. We implore you to return this heinous pile of rust to the Newark shipyards, and to the tanker from whose hull it was scraped. We've put up with the "Boomerang Man" between Flan­ner and Grace, the "Pipe Monster" at the Aerospace Building, and the wreckage ofthe 
yellow  submarine  behind O'Shaghnessy  
Hall, but this it too-o o-oo far.  
Sincerely,  

Section 6-A Flanner 
Library a joke? 

DearEditor: 
Kelli Flint's feature on the new ~esburgh Library wa..s a great disappointment for anyone who has ever used the library for purposes other than the dating game. Last januarv, the Chronicle ofHigher Education ranked our library 49th among American university research libraries, below such well-recognized learning centers as the Uni­versity ofSaskatchewan, Colorado State, and the University of '\lew Mexico. Indeed, our library building is big, but the celebrated 
"space" virtue is a joke considering that all room for further expansion has been gobbled-up by offices and institutes over the past several years. 
The collection itself is a disgrace. In many library has a superior and more current col­lection of journals and periodicals. 
Kelli is correct, however, when she notes that the ridiculously inappropriate "stock exchange booth" perfectly befits a library to be named after Father Hesburgh. Perhaps in the future someone could arrange for the latest stock quotations to appear displayed across the face of the "touchdown Jesus" mural? Moses apparently all along has been 
signaling a bid on the commodities market. Stocks vobiscus. Et cum spiritu tuo? Stephen Schneck Graduate Student 
Weapons debate 
DearEditor: 
I would like to express my disappoint· ment with both speakers at Wednesday's nuclear-freeze debate.-. But rather than elaboratt> on the inadequacies of the argu­ments of others. l would like to specit)· the questions I had hop<:d W cdnesday night's spc.-akers would answer. 
For the paettht. ahsolute or nuclear. the frtTtt: would oh\iousl~· ht iq... uflkic:nt. lhll mosl Americans helie\ t: 1hat our nuclear ar 
American steel industries also are feeling the 
advent of major changes in sieel production, 
because of steel production methods per­
fected by theJapanese. 

According to NRC, Japanese ninth-graders 
spend 18 hours per week on homework. 
Soviet youths take 15 hours to complete their 
outside course work. For American ninth­
graders, it takes a whopping six hours to finish 
their studies before going to football practice 
or aerobics class. 

Granted, mastery of school subjects 
shouldn't be necessarily dependent on the 
time spent on homework. What must be 
analyzed and critically reviewed is the quality 
ofthe subjects offered to tomorrow's youth. 
Consider these facts, courtesy of NBC: 

•Japanese 
secondary schools are required to study four years of math, science, and technical courses. Calculus is required of ninth-graders, along with extensive course loads and outside study. 

•soviet 
ninth-graders also are required to take large course loads, with an advanced science lab and other similarly difficult sub­jects on their schedules. 

• 
American secondary school students are required, in many states, to take two years of math, with college preparatory students get· ting the opportunity to take advanced courses in their third and fourth years in high school. As a ninth-grader, a student experiences basic 


introductory courses and a general science 
course. 
In other words, American youths are slowly being shortchanged by their lack of educa­tion. If not thwarted, this slow. festering can­cer could appear in five, ten, or twenty years from now as a full-blown disease. The highly educated adults of other cultures could dominate the decision-making world, leaving the less educated to be the pawns of the new age. Unlike present unemployment victims, who have lost their unskilled and semi-skilled 
jobs, technicians and professionals could be rendered obsolete by a vastly superior, highly trained faction. 
Students, think back to your high school ex­perience. Do you remember studying cal­culus as a freshman? Do you remember studying 18 hours a week, with nearly every subject being a challenging, intensive course that denzanded nearly three hours a night of outside study? 
Or, does high school memories include the parties, the homecoming parades, that tough game against your cross-town rival, the stu­dent government meetings, or the speech and debate club's trip to a faraway meet? High school memories seem to breeze over the more mundane activites in the classroom. We at Notre Dame exemplify the well-rounded in­dividuaJ status needed for acceptance into this University. But 18 hours ofhomework per 
senal is at least a temporarily tolerable evil. It is for them that the question of whether to support a mutual and verifiable freeze of nuclear arsenals becomes urgent. 
There are three questions which must be answered as one decides whether to support the nuclear freeze movement. 
1. What is it that our nuclear arsenal must be capable of doing and is it currently capable of doing iO Now on the question of sufficeiency there are two stock answers, both of them bad. The one side says our ar­senal must be adequate as is, since it is suffi­ciently large to destroy the world several times over. No doubt if the intended use of 
the weapons were to launch a sneak attack on the rest of the world, our arsenal would be sufficient. But that is not their intended use and opponents of the freeze advocate not so much increased quantity as increased survivability. The one-line argument on overkill is insufficient. But equaly insuffi­cient is the claim that the US must have a counterpart for every Soviet weapon. If we need a new weapon, it is to perform a certain task, not just to keep up for the sake of keeping up. 
2. 
Is a verifiable agreement technological­ly feasible? If it is not, the nuclear freeze proposal is moot. There is no point in deliberating about wha we cannot do. But unfortunately, none of us knows the answer to this question, for the capabilities and limitations of our intelligence services are surely and properly classified. We must ensure that we have appointed as chiefs of the inte1iigence services men we can trust. Then we must take their word on this ques­tion. Is this a morally objectionable passing of the buck in a matter of conscience' Cer­tainly not, for we would be relying on them for technical information on the basis of which we would make our own moral judg­ment. Even reliance on others to make a moral judgment for us in areas where they alone have the factual knowledge on which the judgment would have to rest would not, I think, be morally objectionable as Io.1g as one had good reason to trust the moral sen· sibility ofthose on whom one was relying. 

3. 
Is public support of the nuclear freeze movement counter-productive? Whereas the first two questions focussed on the 



-merits of the freeze proposal itself. this last question focusses rather on the best means ofachieving such a freeze. Opponents of the freeze suggest the following analogy. Im­agine being at a bazaar with a friend. While you are haggling with the merchant over the price of an item. your friend keeps saying. "That's such a nice piece. 1 really think we ought to buy it." What does the merchant do' So what will the Soviets do during negotiation~ as the citiL.ens in the w·est prc~s their ~overnments to get a freeze if at all pos­siblt";. We must not forget that. simple as its proponents claim it to be. there art:· man~ points about thl' fret: It" whit:h would h..t\T to h• negPll..ttcd what counts a<> a nudc;.r 

• __J 
weapon, the warhead or the means of delivery' Are means of delivery with dual (nuclear and conventional) capability in­cluded? If weapons systems cannot be upgraded, can old items be replaced with new ones of the same type? Can they be repaired? Can extstmg weapons be redeployed? Are the French and British ar­senals also to be frozen? Are the Soviets similarly restricted on nuclear missiles tar­geted on China~ How does one tell which missiles are targeted where? And what provi­sions are necessary to ensure the verifiability which the freeze proposal demands' All these questions would need to be negotiated even after both sides agreed to 
week? When would we have found the time to be well-rounded' 
For many, the educational systems we left behind didn't give us many difficulties. In fact, it is not uncommon to hear a Notre Dame stu­dent say, "I never studied until I came to Notre Dame." What people fail to understand is that if the state's educational systems were as intense as Japan's philosophy, college would not be a place of higher learning, it would be a highly advanced research institu­tion. Students, acquiring the skills much quicker, would undoubtedly give the 
Japanese a formidable challenge as world leaders in this increasingly technological age. 
Education must envision a broaderscope in dealing with the constantly changing fields of study that ultimately will determine who will be the most informed in the years to come. 
There is one problem, though. Ifsecondary schools adapt by offering more advanced courses in their curriculums, college courses would similarly require a change in focus. 
This means Notre Dame freshmen would 
never get a chance to experience Emil T. Hof­
man's legendary chemistry course. 
While Thursday nights would never be the same, American technological expertise would ultimately emerge victorious. 
P.O. BoxQ 
NOW ~\K ThEM IF Th£Y ~AVE t-IER BE~ AND Wf.l.Y A.RE TUN t-JOW. COMMUNIST'. ANKO I 5UBVERSIV£S 

the freeze in principle. Or can we afford to make concessions on all these points with· out endagering the adequacy ofour nuclear arsenal? And can we be confident that domestic political pressure will not have any adverse effect on the arms reduction talks everyone hopes will follow? Before support­ing the freeze movement, l would want to know. 
These, I believe, are the questions which must be faced by anyone addressing this issue. Would it be too much to ask that they be provided in advance to future speakers on this issue' 
Kenneth W. Kemp Philosophy 
-...,_,.._..__.,.. •I),.,.,_..~ 
.J~JI;,r 

iiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii;&B-HB•j;i-iiiii:ua;;;.-...,;.iiiiiiiiii-aiiiiiiiiiiii;e;;.Wiii.!iiftl'lft.~-.... & BDMPFA.Biii;i';W~~.:-~·-'!"-,.,.~---... ..'F.!'UJi;;~.~.-.:;,... ....~.;: ..:::~::::_:;.,:;'.=.:=-;-,:~~.c:?.~,~ ~c~~---,_-;.."')--l,i_-:;:_---~--~-~~=-;;._'l-7~·r";".-;~:;-::: ......
____.--:-;:;;;;";t--;;';:""':'~7;",•;;_,.__:;;:-;,;.:;;:,. :;,;;:.~,._-;:;;, .....__:;,-,;:::.,~= ..~.::.:~.-~;:_;::_.~~~~.-..-;-~'"~,.._.;:7,~.,..-.;~.;;m.iiftijtl:·~5ii!:iP41iii<i.>:.:5~ 

--~~----~ 

f 
t 
l 
I , 
1 
( 
I 
j 
~jbl>~tS=i:J~~~t=·~~~~=S========*=======================sa=tu=r=da=y=,o=c=to=b=e=r=9,=1=9=82=-==P=ag=e=I==2
Rv The Ohsen•er and The Ass{Jciated Press 
Saint Mary's basketballteamwill hold tryouts 
begmning Monday night, Oct. 11, from 6 to 8 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. Try-outs will continue Wednesday, Thursday and Friday of next week. and will also be held next Saturday morning from 9 to 11. For more information, call Tim Dillon at 284-5548. ­
The Obserfler 

Gymnastics Club will hold an exhibition and candv sak today on the South Quad. All members are invited to participat~ in the activities. -The Observer 
Off-Ca,npus Golf Toumatnent tees off at I 
p.m. tommorrow. There is a s..:; entry tee. Refreshments will follow the event. Any interested should <.:o~tact Gregg Gross at 28'7-"::' i06 or .\1ark Murphy at 234-541 'f. -The Ohserl'er 
Rich Hunter's Irish soccer team takes its 6-3-2 record into weekend action. Alumni Field will be the site oftommor­row's 2 p.m. contest versus Louisville. -The Observer 
Irish volleyball team travels to Fort Wayne today for the IU-PU-Ft. Wayne Invitational. The Observer 
Irish baseball teamplays host to Bradley Univesity f?r three weekend games at Jake Kline Field. The two reams play a smgle game today at 9:30a.m. Tommorrow's doubleheader begins at 
1 p.m. -The Observer 

ND women's tennis team sponsors the Irish Invita­tional this weekend. Participating teams are Central Michigan, Wes­tern Michigan, the University of Toledo, Ferris State, and Saint Mary"s. The action starts at 8 a.m. tomorrow on Notre Dame's Courtney Courts. -The Observer. 
Saint Mary's tennis teatn plays Rosary at home starting at 9 a.m. this morning. Tommorrow they will play in the Notre Dame invitational starting at 8 a.m. -The Observer 
Women's soccer action yesterday at Cartier Field featured Notre Dame against Saint Mary's, with the Irish coming out on top, 2-0. -The Obseroer 
It was a day in which not much was happening in the 
life of Harvey Kuenn the well-known line drive hitter 
and tobacco-chewer. To give you an idea how bad 
things were going, he was out walking the dog. 
Harvey had played 18 holes of golf that day and his 
right leg had what appearred to be a muscle pull in it. So, 
he propped it up as he turned on the TV in his Sun City 
home. The TV stayed in full color, but the light went to 
black-and-white. Harvey thought his foot had gone to 
sleep. Actually, it had died. Within an hour, you could 
read through it. 
"I thought I was just sitting wrong," Harvey remem­
bers. In fact, there was no way to sit right. The doctors 
stuck pins in his ankle and decided the only way to save 
the rest of Harvey was to get him away from that foot as 
soon as possible. Gangrene was already setting in. The 
foot was dead and would soon be followed by the 
remainder of Harvey ifsomething wasn't done. Circula­
tion was gone. The ankle was like a washed-out bridge 
in his system's arterial highway. 
The doctor tried a sympathectomy, an operation to restore circulation. "When that didn't work, I knew I was in trouble," Harvey recalls. "Ifyour tempature goes up even a degree," the doctors warned him, "we have to think about amputation." 
Sure enough, the tempature went up. "What are w~ waiting for?" Harvey growled. "What will I be able to do 

the St. Louis Cardinals, 1.vho lead the National League championship series, 1-0. ( AP Photo) 
A leg up on the pennant 
;i;:;~ii::m::;iM!i!i,:::;~;t,::mli~,:::~!:I:\iiilililiitriiit:~&!i@[iw*l~~~lliBIIIIIIIIillilili•l• 
fun Murray 
Best ot Jim Murray 
without one leg?" "That," the doctors told him, "is up to you." 
That was March, 1980. What Harvey Kuenn has been able to since then is play golf and manage the team which may get in this year's World Series. His players tease him unmercifully. They say, straight faced. that if Harvey wants to take a pitcher out in the fourth inning, he has to start out to the mound by the second On the other hand, oldtimers swear it would not affect his bat­ting average, that Harvey Kuenn is just as fast as he ever was. The doctors did not excise his sense of humor, either. Kuenn spotted a couple of sports reporters in the dugout the other night. "I can drink more th2n you guys now," he told them smugly. "I got a hollow leg_" 
Harvey Kuenn is one ofthose rare baseball managers whose athletes are nicknamed after him. The Mil-
See MURRAY, page 13 

Classifieds  The Observer w1ll accept ctass1fieds Mon­day through Friday. 10 a.m to 4.30 p.m However. class1fieds to appear 1n the next 1ssue must be rece1ved by 3 p.m. the busmess day pnor to 1nsert1on All class1fleds must be prepa1d e1ther m person or through the ma11  
LOST Green notebook & folder Call A1ders needed to Daytona BeKh, Steve at 1855. Flo~ or any po1nts along the way lorNOTICES October Break. Call Denny at 277-0838 LOST: ONE BLUE AL300 STATS BOOK soon. BY ANDERSON ET AL IF YOU liE FOUND ONE AECENTL Y OR COULD need a ride to CINCINNATI on OCT l)rk IS YOUR HAIR GETTING IN THE WAY SELL ME ONE. PLEASE CALL KEITH at cal! TIM 1579 OF YOUR STUDIES?? 1169 CALL MICHOLE FOR A HAIRCUT NEED RIDE to OKLA-w111 share $$ call TODAY! Bob8315LOST: 1155 Calculator on Friday. 9/23.ONLY $4 FOR GUYS AND $6 FOR CaH John LEcuyer at 232·0550 Kathy -GIRLS RIDE NEEDED to MlnndOta for Oc­the one who called about my calculator BEST TO CALL AFTER 3 AT 7850 toberBruk. Call Cathy, 3713. ThanksIPlease call me again. You gave me the wrong number WORD PROCESSING SYSTEM $2995 3 GIRLS DESPEAATELY NEED AIDE 64K Microcomputer,letter quality pnnter, TO DC FOR BREAK CALL 6781FOUND CALCULATOR IN ROOM ~I 212word P'(>Cesstng software, CP/M, Basic CUSHING ON WED OCT 6 Call277·7720 OCTOBER BREAK Need a ride for 2 down to lhe Mlamt/Ftfound: one set of car keys at StepanNEED A RIDE TO BUFFALO OVER Lauderdale-area. Will share costs PleaseCourts Owner may clatm at Adm1n Lost & FALL BREAK-·WILL PAY CALL ROB call6965Found 6721 need nde to CONNECTICUT lor OCT STUDENT REP NEEDED to promote our BREAK Doug x8389 annual Spnng Break tnps to Flonda and our W1nter Sk1 tnps. Reps. rece1ve FREE RIDE NEEDED TO KANSAS CITY (OR TRIPS plus commissoon Call or wnte: TO ANYWHERE ALONG 1·70 WEST OR COASTAL TOURS, INC., P 0 Box 68, FOR RENT 1-35 SOUTH) FOR BAEAK -WILL Oak Forest. IL 60452. (312) 535-3212 SHARE USUAL · CALL KATE AT 4376 TYPING AVAILABLE 287·4082 NEED RIDER TO CONNEC· TICUT.FAIRFIRLD COUNTY CABINS FOR RENT . 45 mtnutes from AREA.FOR OCT BREAK CALL TIM Notre Dame. 616-424-5817 t584 Anyone go1ng lo/through OKLAHOMALOST/FOUND I CITY? I need A ride for Oct. break. Call Colleen (SMC) 4212 I need a ride to the Ph1ladelph1a area forWANTED ]LOST: KEY CHAII't "AIR FRANCE.. October break. Contact Nancy at 4372 WITH TWO KEYS 0"IT MAYBE LOST S.MC. IN SENIOR BAR. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL FRANCOIS AT 6818. ...... RIDE NEEDED TO WASHINGTON DC-­LOST: A navy blue, zip down, light FOR OCTOBER BREAK CALL BREN­weather jacket with a 'Sexton'label on the DAN ANYTIME--WIU SHARE THE collar. I need 11 badly, if found please call USUAL---7997 John at 3625. FOR SALE ·······­... ·•····•··· ------­....... . ...... HELP! IS ANYONE GOING TO LOST-1 Introduction To Jazz notebooll.' · SYRACUSE FOR FALL BREAK? I NEED Left at ~staning c.m... Monday night Cal A RIDE AND WWilL HELP SHARE GAS Mark8810 ETC. PlEASE CALL CHRIS AT 2703 73 Tnumph TAG. excellenl conditiOn .. .. ... .... ...... ........ ........ 53495 or best ofter Call233-572? LOST-1 Adidas windbreaker. Red witt\ NEED RIDE OR RIDERS TOTAMPA·ST. hood and stripes on slel¥88. CaR Mark PETE AREA FOR BREAK.CAU NANCY use() 3 PtECE UVIVG ROOM SET M10 33117. 250 00. 233-2821  my 83-year-old grandmother and two Fly cheap lo Boslon caH Doona 5472 nuns need 3 GAs for the Anzona game. SMC Don'l disappoint 3 Irish-Catholics This is TICKETS for real Call 3773. APEX ROCKS DIUON HAU HAPPY HOUR DESPERATE: I NEED 2·4 PENN STATEWIU PAY BIG MONEY FOR 4 PENN Friday4-6pGAS RIGHT NOW .. WILL PAY $$$CALLSTATE GA TIX. CALL 3t2-~~~ JIM 3132 NOW·PLEASE'!!COLLECT AND ASK FOR-~ Hi Colleen• LONGLEY. Your Secret AdmrerVOLUPTUOUS LITTLE SISTER has never seen an N.D. game' Her LAST andNeed 4 Miami GA·s Call1225 'MISSING DRAMA and SUSPENSE.ONLY chance IS PENN ST. She and her Come see what 11 s all about Oct 12.13entourage need 2 GA s and 3 stud li•N~ed 3 o; 4GA s I~; ARIZONA game Showmgs 7.9:15.11:30. Engr. Aud Please call Tom · 3360 Were talk1ng BIG$$ here!! Joe: 1652 RESIDENTS OF NEW YORK/CONNNEED 2 MIAMI GAS NAME YOUR THERE Will BE AN OCT BREAK BUSPRICE. CALL 3242 • STOPPING IN N Y.C. FAIRFIELD. HARTFORD. SPONSORED BY NEW HELP• PERSONALS YORK METRO CLUB SEATS ARE MARCHING BAND MEMBER NEEDS STILL AVAILABLE CALL TED 1101 OR TWO MIAMI TICKETS FOR FAMILY FRANK 3164 FOR INFO . . . . FOR WOMEN ONLY FEMALE RELATIVES WILLING TO SMC/ND WOMEN S PICNIC THE GREAT CME DEBATE Whr do SLEEP AROUND FOR MIAMI GAS Oct. 10, 12·3 p.m. Potato Creek State you th1nk has lhe nacest Cakes .,., CALL ROBO AT x232-4731 ANYTIME Park U.S 31·S to SR. 4, turn W, 4 m1 Campus? Call 8894 and vote for edt.~ park on rtght. $2 per person · payable at Bnan or Mike parenls com1ng to ND for parents day & p1cnac NO· contact sectiOn leaders by l1ttle s•ster is taggang along 1 need one Oct. 6. 6 p m. SMC -s1gn •n at hall desks People iUfl so wpid... M1am1 GA or next week iII be back 1n sub­by Oct 6. 6p m DEAR RICH STANGLER.urban boredom' Will pay enough for you to rettre nch. sam 1436 ATTENTION-ATIENTION CONGRATULATIONS ON YOUR AC. The one and Only 'T·--­Doyle 1s CEPT ANCE TO THE UNIVERSITY OF NEED 6 ARIZ. GAS·DOUG at 6166 makang another v•s•t to Notre Dame th•s MINNESOTA MEDICAL SCHOOl. weekend Th1s extremely lalented, mtel­LOVE ALWAYS. ANNE VULCH needs lour GAs to Anzona Call ilgent. and beautiful young lady IS try1ng to ·~····· .. h1s brother T1m 1185 dectde whether or not to attend th1s fane Qon't miss the firs! rneeling of the Central un1vers1ty. and her s•ster. Kalle. of Party AmeriCan ActiOn Committee HELPI Need Arizona ltX for family Call Pas. West just wants to make sure she Kalle 6781 gets a good Impression of the place So If Dont rnis3 the firs! meeting ol the Central Amencan ActiOn Awareness Commaneeanyone noltces that awesome gal stroll­BIG BUCKS CHUCK Needs 2 Penn St Tix Monday at 6:30 in LaFortune Littletng around campus with Moms and Pops Stu. orGA Theater!Doyle, and maybe even BIQ Sis Katte. be $$CHUCK 288-0725 .................................. sure to tell her where to go !1! HELLO MR AND MRS CRIMINSt(l HEL­LO MR AND MRS SZILVASNEED ANY KIND OF PENN STATE TIX Carole K1ng HELLO MR AND MRS WEYENBERG CALL MEG·7628 OIMa Newton-John Cheech and Chong YOOA,Ionly need one M I A M I tick~ The Tymes So you are linaly legalll Hawe a HAP­$$$$$$$$$$$$ Ameroca PY 181h BIRTHOAYIIplease call mike 1 779 These are but hve of tM lurrunanest?) ~. ········· ---­...... ,,............................. you·u hear on this weeks edition o! Tim MENEED 2 OR 4 ARIZONA GA TICKETS Neely 1 Top 20 Time Tun'*, Sunday S$$ CALL MIKE AT 1475 fli9hC at 6 pmon WSND AM &4. as he goes 8uv o8S8Mil cia. tuts ai it. ~ back to this week'" 11174 (Wen. you~' t M.ry s OBSERVfR oftic:e .,. R1g1nasAVE t.E FROM TAKiNG TvLiNOt..:r • have the s•xJaes every week. but wall unbl Sodh bas••-" HluS: Monday 111rougt1NEED 2 PENN ST GA S -ROe 1782 next_.. when-go WAY back ) Friday, noon 10 3 p.m  


The Observer Saturday, October 9, 1982 -page 13 
• • • Murray 
three no-hitteis to this day.
continuedfrom page 12 
"Moreover, people forget I got the waukee Brewers, l 50 homers into last regular season hit that Koufax the season, are known to the good ever gave up," insists Kuenn. burghers of America's beer hall a.."i Harvey Kuenn got 2,092 major "Harvey's Wallhangers." Harvey league hits, and the prevailing no­himselfwas hardly a wallbanger. His tion is, 2,000 of them were singles. hits were more grassbangers, chalk-Actually. only 1,500 of them were. kickers. It Harvey's hit a wall, they Harvey Kuenn led the league three were foul. times in doubles. He had 42 doubles 
Harvey is remembered by history on a .353 batting average in 1959 as the guy who kept making the last when he led the league in both out in Sandv Koufax's no-hitter. It categories and wa'i third in total was a kind of a hum rap. In the first bases. Harvey could bang a wall ifhe place, Harvey only made the last out had to. in two of them. And Sandy threw "W'hen I first came up to the major four. In 1963, Harvey tapped back to leagues, Fred Hutchinson wa..o; my the box for out ~o. 3 as Sandy manager and he told me, 'Kid, you've stepped on the Giants, 8-0. In 1965, got a nice stroke. You'll wear out Harvey struck out on three pitches pitchers. They'll try to get you to go as Sandy stepped on the Cubs, 1-0. for fences, hut you'll ending up hat­But that was one of only 14 ting .243 and spot-playing if you do strikeouts hy Koufax that night, and that. Leave it alone and hit to all it wa..-; only Kuenn's 12th strikeout tlelds.' I left it alone and hit to all that seao;on. In the '63 game, Harvey tlelds." had only the hard-hit hall oilKoufax. Harvey Kuenn's stock-in-trade is On the first pitch of the game, he leaving well enough alone. The '82 lined to center. A few feet either Milwaukee Brewers are a rollicking way, and ·sandy would have only crew of homicidal hitters whose 
*******~* style is to leave the league for dead by bludgeoning, but whose former managers thought they should learn
i( ~ the burglars' arts instead, steal ~ ~ games ·on rubber soles, as it were."""' Got a bee'? '"?' But they didn't want to pick pockets, ... Your (current) proposals are by several clubs seeking to prevent
..,J, '} : ~ continuedfrom page 16 
"""' ~ they wanted to take prisoners. aimed at destroying the existing sys-players from taking part. ~ Tell US/ _.,. Harvey let them wall-bang. Har-20 union-backed all-star games. tern, a system that has allowed us to A federal judge ruled Wednesday ~ r vey knows better than anybody the Garvey said he was astonished put a S 1.6 billion offer on the tahle." that owners' suits filed in various '"?' '"?' 1927 Yankees theory -one home-that Jack Donlan, the owners' chief Garvey said he was especially dis-states were invalid and future suits,iC send a letter iC run equals four singles, sometimes negotiator, had turned down the rc-couraged that the owners them-for the sake of simplicity, must be ~ ~ five. So, Harvey just pencils in a quest for resumption oftalks. selves are not scheduled to meet filed together in Washington. """' ~ lineup and sits around and listens to The loans "put the players in a until Oct. 19. "This tells us they 
A state judge in Missouri, ~ The Observer ~ the sounds of boards rattling. He position to survive a long strike and don't expect anything to happen un-however, has ruled that even though 
~ ..,J, hopes to be still hearing it when unfortunately it looks like it will be til then," he said."""' SportS Editor '"?' World Series time rolls around. Har-one," Garvey said. The union also said yesterday that the union's contract with the NFLiC ~ vey'll he the one steaming tobacco In rejecting the union invitation, its first all-star game will be Oct. 17 has expired, many of the individual 
~ P.0. Box Q . ..,J, juice and telling the assembled Donlan messaged Garvey: "We in RFK Stadium in Washington. That contracts between players and """' ~ series press, "I don't need this job, I believe that for negotiations to be game was to have heen played Oct. teams remain in force and thei{ i{ can always take up place-kicking." successful, you must seriously ret-10, but was postponed, partly be-proper arenaf..:>r those legal fights is 
~1Ar1ArJAr1Ar1Ar*~~~~~~~~llllllllllflcJiliYISLI,1I.alsAinlglerlulrl•"l'elsllllllllllhlinllklylolulrlpollsl·itlilolnlolnllthlellwlalglelsl·c1a1lelllcl.alulslelollflthlellsellrlielslolflllalwllsu1t1·t1s 1filtlleldllltlhlelsl·t1a1te11c1o1u1rtlsl·llllllllllllll 

Thursday's game. Yesterday's game was rained out and will he played today. St. Louis leads the series 1-0. ( AP Photo) 
• .. Negotiations 
Internationally known poet and translator 
Paul Roche 
will autograph two of his latest books 
New Tales from Aesop  and  With Duncan Grant in Southern Turkey  
DuNcAN'GF\1\NT  
Saturday  IN 5C)lJTI1[f-<NTUF\t\t:Y  
Oct. 9th  

10:30 to 12:00 
by PauI Roche 
I 
I 

Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 


2nd Floor Book Department 

, 
•
' 
; 
------------------~------~­
The Observer Saturday, October 9, 1982 -page 14 
QBLaufenberg after record 
Iowa prepares for Hoosiers· 

Tom Watson, reigning U.S. Open and British golf tournament champion, blasts out ofa bunker on the ninth hole ofthe Fairway Oaks Golf and Racquet Club during the Lajet Classic PGA golf tournament. Watson shota 69yesterday, butremains several shots out ofthe lead. (AP Photo) 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (AP)-In less than two seasons Indiana quar­terback Babe Laufenberg has moved near the top ofthe Hoosiers' all-time passing statistics and he figures to climb higher this week at the ex­pense of Big Ten rival Iowa. 
Laufenberg, who joined Indiana last season as a junior. needs only 109 yards in today's game to move into the No_ 3 position on the school's career-passing yardage list. He's currently fifth with 2,51 5 yards in just 1 5 games and needs just 30 yards to move ahead of fourth-place Ted McNulty. 
Laufenberg, who has completed 70 of 120 passes for 697 yards this
' 
season, has no favorite receiver. The
}' 
6-foot-2, 190-pound junior has hit on passes to eight different receivers in each ofIndiana's past two games. 
Flanker Duane Gunn leads Indiana in receptions with 13 for 227 yards. Reserve fullback Johnnie Salters is next with 1 0 catches and five other players have five or more recep­tions. 
Both teams bring 2-2 records to the game, which will be regionally televised by ABC. Iowa is 1-0 in league play after last week's 45-7 vic­tory over Northwestern. Indiana has divided its Big Ten action, defeating Northwestern 30-0 and losing to 
Michigan 24-10 last week. 
The Hawkeyes had trouble against Laufenberg in winning 42-28 last year in Iowa City. Laufenberg had his most productive game last season against Iowa as he connected on I 7 
Levi leads Lajet Classic 
ABilENE, Texas (AP) -Wayne Levi fought his way through blus­tery, gusty winds to a one-under-par 71 that stretched his lead to two strokes yesterday in the second round ofthe S350,000 LaJet Classic. 
''I'm just happy to get done some­where around par," said levi, who had to birdie three of the last four holes to regain the top spot with a 36 t-hole total of 135, nine shots un­der par for two trips over the 7,077 yard Fairway Oaks Golf and Racquet Club course. 
"The wind was so hard you had to invent some pretty incredible shots out there," he said. 
Bruce Devlin of Australia, who scored the last ofhis eight American tour titles 10 long years ago, agreed. 
"The conditions were really dif­ficult, very tough," Devlin said, and 
offered an example. twice." 
"Downwind, you could hit a 7· Masters champion Craig Stadler iron 185 yards. Into the wind, you'd went to a 74 but remained very hit it 1 05," he said. much in contention for a fifth title of 
He scrambled in with a no-bogey the year at 140. round of70, however, with one-putt Tom Kite and PGA champion Ray pars on five ofthe last six holes, and Floyd, who may be making their last took second at 137. American start of the season, each 
Gary Koch and South African Bob­finished at 146, two over par. Aoyd 
by Cole were next at 138, each with had a 74, Kite 72. a round of 71 in the winds that levi, who has quietly collected his gusted well over 30 miles an hour. fourth career title and more than Jim Thorpe and Steve Liebler 5200,000 in earnings this year, wa'> followed at 139, five under par. two over par for the day and one 
Liebler shot 71, Thorpe 72. stroke back ofDevlin with four holes 
Tom Watson, the U.S. and British to play. Open title-holder who often plays But he dropped birdie putts of 15 his best under adverse conditions, and 10 feet on his 15th and 16th had a 69 despite a double bogey and holes to regain the top spot, and ex­improved to 142. panded the margin when he capped 
"I can tell I'm in Texas," Watson it off with a 25-footer on his final quipped, "because I chili-dipped it hole. 
of 35 passes for 29...,. yards. 

"Last year we got exceptional play from Babe Laufenberg and Duane Gunn (six receptions for 197 yards), and it will take _that kind of effort from lot ofpeople Saturday." 
"He's as good as I've seen in America," said Iowa Coach Hayden Fry said of Gunn. "He's fluid, ha'i great judgment· and timing, plus quickness. He's extremely gifted. There may he a key to stopping him, but I don't think we've got it." 
Iowa, which lost 1 5 starters from last year's Rose Bowl team, ha<; defeated Arizona and Northwestern after opt"ninl!' with losses to Nebraska and Iowa State. 
"They look like they're really jel­
ling, said Indiana Coach Lee Corso 
said. "They have come up with some 
talented players, a lot of them 
second string last year. The defense 
is strong against the run and it moves 
well against the pass." 

Iowa is being directed by sopho­more quarterback Chuck Long, who has completed .n of 45 passes for 349 yards. However, it's not Long's passing that concerns Corso. 
"He's a fine looking runner," Corso said. "His option-running is very dangerous." 
Wisconsin, Ohio State readyfor aerial attack 
COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) -Wis­games and 1-0 in the league, are to consin's Dave McClain and Earle junk a two-game losing streak. Bruce of Ohio State, once disciples "It's quite obvious Ohio State has 
of the Woody Hayes' rushing to mix the play outside with the pass philosophy, wilJ test their new, ver­and the play inside," Bruce said. The satile football coaching theories on longest run by any of the Buckeyes' each other today. touted tailbacks this season has been 
The Buckeyes, despite a rare two 26 yards. straight home defeats, are favored by Bruce's biggest problem is a touchdown to keep the Badgers developing a consistent quar­winless in Columbus for 64 seasons. terbacking successor to Art Schlich­Wisconsin last won here 14-3 in ter, now with the Baltimore Colts. In 1918, four years before Ohio the first four games, he went with Stadium was built. sophomore Mike Tomczak, who hit 
McClain and Bruce were on the just 20 of 56 passes and threw eight 
same coaching staff with Hayes interceptions. more than 10 years ago at Ohio So this week Bruce will open with State. So they carried their old boss' Wake Forest transfer Brent Offen­
ground-accented offensive theories becher. 
into their own head jobs. The junior replaced Tomczak late Now both are reverting more to in the first half of a 34-17 drubbing the passing game. from Florida State. While Offenbec­
After finishing 7-5 last year and her threw for one touchdown and tied for third in the Big Ten, McClain 204 yards, he also pitched three in­
opted for the air. "We were second terceptions. in rushing and last in passing. That "Our quarterbacking is a little really hurt us," he said. shaky right now," admitted Bruce, 
So the Badgers, 2-2 overall and 1-1 "in terms of the interceptions and in the conference, have thrown for mistakes the last two weeks. That's roughly two-thirds oftheir 1,444 to­got. to be corrected for us to be a tal yards this season. Just last week, solid team " during a 35-31 decision over Purdue, quarterback Randy Wright broke two school passing records and tied another one. "I think he can see how much a 
' , . Ball 

good passing team can open up the offense," Wright said of McClain. "I think he knows we have the type of continuedfrom page 16 offense that strikes quickly." 
Molitor and the relief pitching of 
Bruce still savors an overpower­
Pete Ladd as the Brewers clung to 
ing running game, but knows his 
life in the American League playoffs.

current team must become more 
The Brewers, down 2-1 in theversatile if the Buckeyes, 2-2 for all series with Game 4 set for this after­
noon, still faced an unenviable task. No team ever has come back from an 0-2 deficit to win a league cham­pionship series.. 
The Angels had gotten masterful pitching from Tommy John and Bruce Kison to win the first two games of the best-of-five series, but on today it was the veteran Sutton's turn. Sutton scattered eight hits, struck out nine and walked two in 7 2-3 innings. He lost his shutout bid on a controversial homer by Bob Boone in the eighth inning. 
Sutton, a 37-year-old, 11th-hour acqmsttton from the Houston Astros, finally ran out of steam after the homer, allowing run-scoring doubles by Fred Lynn and Don Baylor in the inning and leaving to a standing ovation. La~d finished up, retiring all four Angels he faced. 
With two out in the seventh in­ning, Molitor provided -what turned out to be the winning runs when he cracked a two-out, two-run homer off reliever Mike Witt. Molitor had hit an inside-the-park homer in the Brewers' 4-2 loss at Anaheim on 
ABSOLUTELY NO ONE 
packs a lunch like usl!! 
The Deli is located, main floor, LaFortune Building, 
at the Huddle. 

Your box includes choice of turkey or ham sandwich ona sesame seed bun, sweet grapes, our favorite cheese, 
ard two of Grama's Big Peanut Butter cookies. With choice 
of a lOoz milk or 16 oz soft-drink. 
All For Only $2.69 
Don't forget to stock up on ICE for this weekend's festivities. 81b.and 181bs. bags of ICE available at the Deli. 
FOR BREAKFAST, THE HUDDLE'S EGG, BACON AND CHEESE SANDWICH 
Only 99¢ good Sat. 10/9/82 8:00am-10: 30am
LETTUCE SERVE YOU 
Wednesdav. 


' 

Ihe=~~er====================~~====~~======== 
Weekend 
Saturday, October 9, 1982 -page 15 
K.D.Student Union looking for an ADVII.!ISilfG SALISMA for DOGBOOK Inquire for application from from secretary 
Deadline Wednesday, Oct. 1S, Sp.m. 
Door1esbury Garrv Trudeau 
J 

llJ'A/W Yal I TIUNK ITS 
f£el ABOfiT. ~8t£.' 7!18 
/INTI-lRUST CWN~ SHa//.P 5all7Ail?NT CAI.L7H85HOJ5l 
11641N5T7l54M I 
Simon 


:) 

~~ 

TheTed Ozark 





ACROSS 32 Islands off 1 Cronies Galway 5 Bright 33 Imitate 
light Crosby 
10 Yarn mop 34 Service 
14 Distant or address 
lateral 35 See 17 A 
precursor 39 A Chaney 
The Daily Crossword 
15 Fortifi· 40 Enoch or 
cation Eve 16 -de force 41 Endless 17 Spring time 
weather 42 Ram's ma'am report 43 Asian 20 0 '-~--..:....nc communist
IYI~"i»IV••._ 

21 Singer John 44 Most wan 22 Granulated 46 Asian land starch 47 Bern's 
23 Concem river 

48 Orient 28 A Guthrie express, 29 Haul e.g. 
Friday's Solution 
. ( 
©,982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 1019182 
' Calllpus 
•1: 
l '; p.m. -Gerry Faust Interview, Gerry faust, WSND-A~1 (H, Sponsored by WSND-AM 64 

•1 
::~0 p.m. -Football, :"'lotre Dame \'S. Miami. Stadium •-. 9: I '5, and II :.-\0 p.m. -Filnt, "From Russsia with l.o\'e," Engmc:ering Auditorium. Sponsored by him Cluh. S1.00 

•H 
p.m. -ND·· SMC Theatre Production, "The Taming of the Shrew," <.YLaughlin Auditorium, S2. '50 

•9 
p.m. -Nazz,john Pietzak. At the Nazz Sunday, Oct. 10 

•H 
a.m. -Women's Tennis, Irish Invitational, Courtney Courts 

•I 
p.m. -Ba'ieball, ND \'S. Bradley University, jake Kline field 

•1 
p.m. -Opening Exhibition, "On Reflection," O'Shaughnessy Gallery :"'lo. 2 

•2 
p.m.-Soccer, ND vs. University of Louisville, Alumni field 

• 
2 p. rn. -Mass with Emmaus, Moreau Seminary 

•6:-t'5 
p.m. -Slide Presentation, lJniversidad Iheroamerica Program in :\texico, Lyons Hall Base­ment Lo.unge 


The saga of a
Br•
1an 
6 month old domer. 


8R,AN 8L.OC.K'O THE. CRUG&At. PUNT 
.. 
51 Method of chord playing 
55 See 17 A 58 Nicklaus' necessity 
59 " ... pump· kin-" 60 "I cannot 
tell-" 61 Tidings 62 Plant or 
fusion prefix 63 Spouse 
DOWN 1 Gnat, e.g. 2 Blueshade 3 Sally­
(teacake) 4 Alcatraz counterpart 5 Farmers' lodge 6 Slow, in 
music 7 Appends 8 Ethiopian prince 9 Chemical 
ending 10 Arrow shaft 11 Habitual 
way 12 Vehicle 13-Mawr 18 1982, e.g. 19 "TwoGen· 

tlemen of -" 
23 Typeof jewels 24 Succulent 
plant 25 Fur 26 Primitive 
weapon 27 French philosopher 28 Court decree 29 Nevada 
resort 30 Unfolds 31 Most 
inferior 33 Yields 36 Certain 
cigar 37 Musical 
group 38 Wire 44 Journals 45 Locale 46 Portrays 47 Richard or 
Harold 48 Minnesota 
athlete 49 Steak order SO Lined up 51 Recorded 
proceedings 52-monster 53 "What's­
for me?" 54 Molding 56 After taxes 57 Patriotic 
org. 

------·· 

____...,.,_.__
_ 

·­
l.. 
j 

I
' 
Saturday, October 9, 1982-page 16 
.. 

Hunter must wait 
Irish bucked by Broncos 
By SAM SHERRILL then sent a beautiful cross into the touched by another player. When Sports Writer box. Rich Herdegen picked it up and asked why the call took so long, the booted it in under the keeper. Her­referee said, "Nobody asked me at 
The Notre Dame soccer team degen was then buried by all ten of first." went into last night's game against his teammates on the field; the Irish The Irish continued to dominate the Broncos of Western Michigan had the momentum. the bala .nee ofthe overtime, but un­hoping to hand Coach Rich Hunter Then followed an officiating com­fortunately could not manage to put his I OOth victory at Notre Dame. In­edy of errors. After ejecting Mario in the game-winner. stead, he ended up with his eighth Manta ofthe Irish and Matt Ginsburg tie. But it was not for lack of trying, of the Broncos for fighting, the Frustration, then, was the key as the Irish got practically every bad referees neglected to make sure that word for Friday night's game, a no­
break possible. Ginsburg left the field, which he did contest which saw the Irish out­shoot the Broncs 28-2. Despite the
Early on, there was little action as not. Then, as the game went into the unsatisfactory result, the Irish con­
both teams were settling in. The Irish got the first of their oppor­first of two ten-minute overtimes, tinued to improve. Playing before an overflow crowd certainly
tunities about eighteen minutes in, the Irish apparently ended things helped. as Joe Hohl, playing better and bet­when Joe Hohl's indirect free kick Hunter's Irish will go for number ter in midfield, ripped a shot that hit was flicked into the net by Ken 100 Sunday afternoon at 2:00 on the crossbar. Harkenrider. But after an out­Alumni Field against the Cardinals of 
-~----: );'$:. 

But Western :Vtichigan got their rageously long delay, the referee Louisville, hopefully improving only shot ofthe first halfat 21 :46 and said that Harkenrider had not their record to 7-3-2 before facing made it count. Greg Ballein, after ap­touched it Indirect ki~k-; must he highly ranked Akron on Wednesday. parently elbowing his defender, 
·~·-···· *•''·""'-~' . ._..-•... --· ~ ... . .. --.. . -----··---~ ---·· .... -~·h·---·-·:::;:::;=::;:::=.;::::.;;:====== _
_.... _, __. ...........___ _... -... -·-..-·--.--.. ·.--·-----.. -...
headed a pass toward the goal and 
J."... 

>i~ over goalie Gerard McCarthy's head. 
. ..f ~'

.' McCarthy, who was going for the 
. NFL players union 
hall, could only watch helplessly a5
Y.~ ~ 
~ 

the ball rolled in. The Irish then assumed total con­trol of the game. The Broncos hardly 
develops strike fund 
crossed the midfield stripe for the rest of the match. For the second By BRUCE LOWITT all employees in America, must he 
week in a row, the Irish took a Associated Press able to support their families during highly-regarded regional foe and a work stoppage." dominated them. But as time wore The National Football League "While the loan program does not 
on, it appeared the team would not players union said yesterday it has match what the networks are doing get the equalizer it so deserved. arranged for its members to borrow to finance the owners during the Cathy Ray and the Notre Dame field hockey team s They finally hit paydirt with only up to .520,000 apiece to get through strike, it is an important step." the strike, which was in its 19th day. Network executives have ad­
Parents' Weekend right with a 2-0 win over Franklin College yes­10:30 to go. Ken Harkenrider saved \1eanwhile, the owners' Manage­mitted paying the league upwards of
terday. See the boxed story• at the bottom right ofthis page. (Photo a pass from going out of bounds and ment Council, for the third time in S30 million for games not played-~~-{j_f~J1~~"";.~~~ej ~· .·----·--~--. _ ...;:::::::::.-..:·. ::c-:::::: .;·.:;";·:: ·:-·..::._-:.:::: ·: "::-:..: · .:..::.::..::: ~ ..:"::.~.:~ ·:::~-:.:::.::=:.c::··~::.-:c·:_ ·,::c.:;·::-..:·::_~·:.::·..: :--::.::.-three days, rejected a union invita­during the strike. The owners say 
tion to begin bargaining again. the monev is an advance on next
Brewersstay alive 
Union officials said the loans were year's TV receipts. to meet household and living ex­The owners, unable to obtain penses and were "not for invest­strike insurance the way baseball's ments." owners did during that sport's strike
NLplayoffgamepostponed 
Onion chief Ed Garvey said he last year, also arranged for 5150 mil­ST. LOUIS (AP) -Rain forced American League city next had started the opener and was didn't expect the players to start lion in loan guarantees from several feeling the pinch ofa strike until the California banks.
postponement of the second game Thursday. ready to come back with just one of the National League Champion­Ifthat happens, it could mean that day rest. But the possibility ofanoth­beginning of November, when The union does not have a strike ship Series between the Atlanta the National League champion con­er rainout meant that if Niekro monthly hills come due. fund, but Garvey said it expects to Braves and St. louis Cardinals last ceivably could play nine con­pit~hed and the game was called af­"We don't want to lose a strike be· generate "S 1 million a week" from night. secutive days -the next four in the ter being started, the knuckleballer cause some people can't borrow 
See NEGOTIATIONS, page 13
It was the second game of the playoffs and then five in a row in the would be unavailable again until at · money," he said. "Our members, like 
' 

series to be rained out, following the World Series -barring any further least Sunday. ,,,,,__._ .•_. ••-,.~ ~ ··••·-#·•-..-~ •"""" ••••<»_..,...,..,_ •~··•·-••• "---o ••• ..,.. .. ~"'-·'_..<'•••"<=>>-•••"' ·•· ·•-••,,..-_o.a.__ ........:·-. 
washout of the opener after 4 and a weather complications. So the Braves decided to go with ~ half innings. The teams had played into the Boggs, 2-2, who missed most of the Last night's game never got fifth inning Wednesd!!y in the Na­s~~-5on b!:c;:u~e ::.f il. sHght tear in the 
IVDfield hockey team
·.··.h,, ....._,.,,...__ ino ......
Starte(t. W ~!I!'..:!~'-!: •• e-~:(lCS tionai League playoff opener before rotator cuffof his pitching shoulder. opening up 30 minutes before the the rains began. National League Stuper was 9-7 for the Cardinals this scheduled 8:30 EDT start when the president Chub Feeney waited 2 season. 
field wa~ covered. The rainout came hours, 28 minutes, before calling the The weather problems were a 
defeats Franklin, 2-0 
22 minutes after the scheduled start. contest, pushing back the opener to new experience for the Cardinals, 
Postponement of the opening Thursday night. St. Louis won that who, until Wednesday's rainout, had The Notre Dame field hockey team defeated Franklin College, 2-0, game Wednesday already had game 7-0 behind the three-hit pitch­not had a home game postponed to start off Parents Weekend yesterday afternoon before a good pushed back the playoff schedule ing of Bob Forseh. since June 23, 1979 -a stretch of crowd at Alumni Field. one day. Now, a second rainout Yesterday was a cloudy, overcast 257 playing dates. Clare Henry and Karen Korowicki scored goals for the Irish, both could impact on the schedule for the day with the weather bureau comingearly in the first half. From then on, the Irish defense he.ld off World Series, which is scheduled to predicting an 80 percent chance of Franklin while coming close to scoring themselves on several occa­begin next Tuesday night in the Na­rain during the evening. Brewers 5, Angels 3 sions. tional League city. The weather was a factor in Notre Dame was coming oft its worst loss of the season on ·wed­
With last night's rainout, a five­ManagerJoe Torre's decision to start MILWAt:KEE (AP)-Don Sutton nesday, when the team loss at Northwestern, 8-0. But the two early game National League playoff now right-hander Tommy Boggs in the turned the tables on California goals dispelled any notions of a continued letdown. could not be decided before Tues­second game against Cardinal rookie today, pitching Milwaukee to a 5-3 The Irish now stand at 10-3 on the season, and will travel to the day. That would force the World John Stuper victory over the Angels with the l'niversity of Chicago on Tuesday for their next match. Coach Jan Series start back to Wednesday and Torre said Thursday night he wa.o; help of a two-run homer hy Paul Bishop's squad returns home for a game with Marion College next eliminate a scheduled travel day leaning toward using the ace of his Friday at Alumni hdd. from ·the National League to staff, 43-year-old Phil Nickro, who See BALL, page 14 
.------------------------------------------------­
,, nw (lh-;en"t"r
\\,th l illll-,"-J'.ll .tbll (<I I'() !ItT'\ 1,)·'""Ill.! II (I' \.t~(fl ll.lflll I\, tC>"'>">C> 
If you art· one of tht' thousands of people who ju~t can't ~rt enou~h of ~otre Dame football, then The Observer 1~ IU!o>t what 
0 Em:ll~'>ed '' S22 forth<.-full acatkmu.: n:ar 
you're lookin~ for. By having The Observer delivered daily to your home, ,·ou can know more ahout about the Fightin' lnsh football 
!~ D
. Fndo!'<cJ ;, ~ l 2 for the rt:mamJt·r of 1he ··t·m<.-!'<tt·r
team than you ever dreamed. En:ry day our large and talented 

~ 
I 

reporting -;taff w111 keep you informed of the latest news concerning ~ \ c;crrv Faust's much impro\'ed foot hall team And when tt come~ time 
'.1111t

t(' ,t;lrt thinkin~ atxmt hasketbali. \OU ctn he -;ure that The Ob­server will provuJr \'OU with all the mformarion you'll need about Dt~cr Pht'lps and hi!'> scr;tppy ~quad For just 51 2 vou wtll rnTiH· 
lbe Observer at your home tor tht· entire !'Ieason Or vou can take advantage of our ·special full n:ar di~count and rt.·ni~·l· The Ob­server throu~h the spnng for on!~ S.!2. That'' a great sa,·mgs for the I II I "l.lll /tp mo'>t comprehensin~ con:ra~e of ~ntn· Damt· sports anvwhen:. You simply can·r afford to turn lhts oft.er Jown _lw.t fill out tht• ..ttLKht:J 
'\. D· Ycat (oraduatnl
·\itl!lHli 

coupon You'll he glad \'ott did 
~-----------------------------------------------­


VOL. XVII, NO. 33 

Hurricane warnings (~ ,, I Two top defensive teams square ( off, each with a score to settle 
By CHRIS NEEDLES 
Sports Editor 
For the third week in a row, Notre Dame will be facing a pass-oriented offense, as it squares off against 17th-ranked Miami of Florida at Notre Dame Stadium. 
There was a time when games against pas­
sing teams used to he X-rated material and 
bring screams ofhorror from Irish fans. But no 
more. 
The Hurricanes come into tomorrow's con­
test averaging nearly 200 yards a game 
through the air. But the combination of a for­
midable pass rush and a vastly-improved 
secondary have made the Notre Dame pass 
defense air-tight. 
The secondary, which limited Michigan State to just 121 yards in the air la<;t Saturday, should be tested again this week. Miami quar­terback Mark Richt, who replaced the injured Jim Kelly three weeks ago, has filled in ad­mirahlv. Richt has hit on 40-of-73 pa<;ses for 39'5 ya~ds in two-and-a-half games since taking over for Kelly. 
When Kelly separated his shoulder in the Hurncanes' 14-8 win at Virginia Tech on Sep­tember 18, skeptics immediately wrote off Miami's chanc:es for a national champion~hip. Kdly, who was a prime candidate for the Heis­man 7rophy, had burned the Irish in their last two meetings. 
Tony Chicki//o 
In Notre Dame's 32-14 home victory in 1980, Kelly passed for 
220 yards and two fourth-quarter touchdowns in the losing ef­
fort. And in last season's "game," if you want to call it that, the 
Pennsylvania native threw for 264 yards in the .37-1 S blowout. 
So, you would think l.ri!>ih Coach Gerry Faust is rejoicing over Kelly's absence. Not so. 
"Richt is doing an outstanding job," says Faust. "Losing someone ofjim Kelly's status had to be a tough blow emotionally as much as anything. I don't think there's any question he was the leader of their team. 
"But you have to he impressed with the success Rkht ha<; had the last couple of weeks. He's in a difficult position, bur he's /handled himselfwell. I'm not sure he's quite the deep threat Kelly ) was, bur that's not always essential because of the way Miami 
I

utilizes its .running backs in the passing game." 
The way Notre Dame's rushing defense has been going lately, pass receiving may be the only thing Miami's running backs will be able to do tomorrow. The Irish front four of Bob Clasby, Jon Autry, Mike Gann and Kevin Grif­
/
fith, which has now been coined "The Gold Rush," has held opponents to a mere 71 total yards rushing in the first three games. The 
23.7 yard per-game average is tops in the rta­tion, and translates into a meager 0.8 yards per rushing attempt. 
Miami will try to counter with what ha<; been a sub-par rushing attack led by junior halfback Keith Griffin ( 62 carries for 221 yards) and junior fullback Speedy Neal ( 42 for 142 yards). 
OlTTLOOK, page 3A 
It is a time-worn cliche, uttered ad nauseam by telev!sion an­
nouncers resplendent in polyester sport coats. 
"Football," they say, "is a game won and lost in the trenches." 
This one will be no exception. 
~otre Dame's aptly -if not uniquely -named "Gold Rush" deiensive line, and Miami's own talented front line will dictate the outcome of the game. The Irish are No. I against the run, and the third-ranked defense overall. The Hurricanes are not far behind them in the latest NCAA statistical release. 
So, the real job will be for the offensive linemen, the anonymous men who work the hardest for the least amount ofglory. Notre Dame linemen will be contending with All-America can­didate Tony Chickillo. 
''Defensively, we're not as strong as we were a year ago," says Chickillo ofthe defensive unit that held Notre Dame's offense score· less last year. "But we are a lot quicker, and more explosive. We're a big play detense. We cause a lot ofbig plays." 
There have been changes in 1he offensive line this week. An injury to center Mark Fischer, though not as severe as once believed, will necessitate some position-shuffling. 
Tom Thayer will move over to the center spot, leaving his own guard position to Neil Maune. Mike Shiner, who returned from pre­season arthroscopic surgery to his knee last week, will also be forced into duty. 
"Thayer played there during the spring," said Coach Gerry Faust 
this week in explaining the move, "so he knows how to play the po~ition. fom Doerger (listed second on the depth charts) playrd wt"'lla"t week. but he's only a frt"shman 
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1982 

"Thayer's a three-year starter, and at this 
point of the season we want experienced 
players in our lineup." 
And Chickillo is not the only man with 
which the Irish linemen must contend. 
"I've got a couple of young guys playing next to me," the 6-3, 250-pound Chickillo says. "But I have a great deal ofconfidence in what Tony Fitzpatrick and Fred Robinson can do. They've been waiting in the wings a long time. Now their opportunity is here, and they are going to make the most ofit." 
These two men will be a real challenge for the Irish offensive line. Fitzpatrick is small at 6-0, 240, but he has great quickness. He and Robinson combined for a game-saving tackle­fumble recovery combination against Michi­gan State two weeks ago. 
Last week, Robinson had what many observers considered the best game of his career. He harassed Louisville Quarterback Dean May to the point offorcing five intercep­tions. He also had three sacks. 
The Irish line must buy time for Blair Kiel if he is to be effective. They must also provide a hole through which Phil Carter can run. The game against Michigan State was an example ofan occasion where Carter, who's strength is his ability to get through the hole and into the flats, simplv had no place to run. 
LINES, pag<e .2A 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii;::;;.;:;.,~~~~-~=::.;:;,~~~;;:Vi:F:....-~1-Wi(!Okt_~_:~~:t.·ilt*~;':;'.::;:.'"';;,r,"'·;;;"e~~;:~,.;;,,;_:uez=i.ii:iwu~a!!:.i'itW~~-··;·;,,.;..;_~J~cc~.:;i;i;;JI!;.w~-~;,._~v=...;!iiJUI&W~i"i;m:;lNlifm.t:t~:iiV.i.'*;;-~«~ii;;~.,ij;;.P,.iiilii-=i:eor;.;-;~~~:~--;&Ji;•iii:wLc::t!iii.iiiiiii:aii:c;i:l.!.liii:~~irimM;:;";;;;a;;.iiiiiiiiiiiii!uiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii" 
~-----· 


The Irish Extra-Miami Saturday, October 9, 1982-page 2A 
Griffith for the defense 
A knee iniury taught the Irish lineman whatfootball,and life, is all about 

By LOUIE SOMOGYI 
Sports Writer 
He's an end. 
He's6-3. 
He's a senior. 
He's from Kettering, Ohio... ;~'1il Sounds familiar. Anyone, ofcourse who has been to a Notre Dame ,,home basketball game in the last year knows that the last three lines 
Kevin Griffith 
• • • Lines 
continuedfrom page 1 A 
Miami's front line must contend with Kevin Griffith, Jon Autry, Mike Gann, and Bob Clasby. But they have done so before, and well. 
Mark Cooper was a part-time starter at tight end for two years, then was relegated to a third-string role behind Andy Baratta and Glenn Dennison. But all that changed just before the end of the season last year. Starting tackle Bill Welch went down at a Tuesday practice with a knee injury. With two days to go before the Notre Dame game, Coach Howard Schnellenberger turned to Cooper to fill the slot. It was a chance out of a Horatio Alger dime novel, and Cooper made the most ofit. By the end ofthe Hurricane win Cooper put on a performance that earned him Offensive Player of the Game honors from the Miami coaching staff. 
He has been a starter ever since. 

Don Bailey has been around much longer. The 6-4, 250-pound senior has started at center for the 'Canes for three seasons, and has proven himself against some ofthe best nose guards in college foot­ball. The Miami press releases incline only slightly to euphemism when they call him "the spiritual leader for the Hurricanes' offensive heart." 
The Hurricanes must buy time for Mark Richt, just as the Irish must do for Kiel. Ifanything, however, it is more vital for the 'Canes to do so. A mediocre running attack requires that Richt pass -a lot. And if Grifith, et al., put the same amount of pressure on him that they did on Leister, they will, more than likely, won the battle. 
And the game. 

IRISH EXTRA 
BY 
Skip Desjardin 
will be the dramatic introduction forJohn Paxson this season. 
But what's with the"He's an end" business? 
If you don't know, then meet Kettering's "other" connection in 
athletic prowess for Notre Dame -defensive end, scholar-athlete and perhaps as good an embodiment ofthe Notre Dame spirit as you will ever find, Kevin Griffith. 
Paxson -who attended the same high school as Griffith in Ketter­ing -will probably still be the most-talked-about athlete on campus by the end ofthe year, but for now quite a bit oftalking is being done about Griffith. 
Forget that he has made only 11 tackles (tying him fortenth on the squad) in three games. Griffith has become perhaps the major stal· wart for the much-improved Notre Dame "Gold Rush." Already in the young season, opposing offensive units have been dropped 18 times behind the line of scrimmage for a total of 87 yards in losses. Griffith himself has accounted for six of those losses for 49 yards. 
"Those 11 tackles don't tell the story about what Kevin has done for us this year," says his defensive line coach, Greg Blache. "He is very valuable for us with his experience and strength alone. He is so physically awesome for us at times that it has enabled him to make the gigantic plays when we needed them." 
Such was the case last Saturday when Michigan State had a first down on its own 29 yard line in the first quarter. Two Griffith sacks later, the ball was on the State 10 yard line. Then Griffith helped out linemates Mike Gann and jon Autry with yet another sack in the Spartan end zone (thus beating out his Kettering colleague in scoring the first "two points" of th~ season). 
The floodgates opened after that, as the Irish defensive unit 
recorded seven more tackles for losses on the afternoon. 
"He set the tempo for us right there," says Blache, "and he got the 
others fired up. 
"Kevin and Bob Clasby are two seniors that have really earned the 
respect of our younger members in the line. They look to them for 
their poise and maturity and that's exactly what they have been 
providing. It's just like having another pair ofcoaches on the field." 
Griffith's play and leadership have been all the more pleasant since 
he was suspect in the beginning as a starter after having sat out all of 
spring drills this year in order to nurse an old knee injury. In addi­
tion, he was moved from his old contain tackle position to the end 
spot this season. 
His shift, however, is one of the reasons why he feels that the 
defensive front has made such great strides this season. 
"We have people in the positions this year where they are best 
suited," explains Griffith. "We are also a lot physically stronger and 
established this year. The system last year where players on the 
defensive line were rotated in and out was good in the sense that it 
would give a player a rest, but it was also bad in that when a guy 
finally figured out the opposing players style or tendencies, he 
would lose his continuity by having to sit back down on the bench. 
"As for myself, I've just been fortunate on the sacks this year 
through hard work. I'm still kind of learning the new position and I 
still have some improving ahead of me." 
Learning and improving, though, are Griffith's true talents in life. 
One of the philosophies that has made Grif­fith the person he is today is the axiom that when life hands you a lemon -make lemonade. Two years ago when he was racked up for the year at the beginning of the season with a major knee injury, moaning about the unfairness that life brings wasn't his style. 
"It was nothing more than a case of my becoming a student first, and an athlete second," he recalls. "I was able to work that year at a juvenile center in Michigan -which was iust a tremendous experience in itself. I was also able then to attend seminars and lectures outside of class that I wouldn't have been able to attend if I had been playing foot­ball. 
"I love the game, but there are so many other things to do in life. The injury just opened up new opportunities for me." 
The new opportunities-paid their dividends at season's end last year. Besides attaining second-team Academic All-America honors for his 3.3 grade point average in government, Griffith was awarded the coveted John W. McMullan award from Notre Dame, which is given to the Irish gridder who best ex­emplifies spirit of the student-athlete while contributing his skill and ability in the class­room and on the field. 
Finally, his greatest opportunity arrived this summer when he ~sisted in the office work of Ohio Congressman Clarence Brown in Wash­ington, D.C. 
All ofwhich gives Griffith an inevitable "All­
American  Boy"  tag  - a  label  which  he  
embarrassingly laughs off.  
"I've  had  my  nights  at  the  C-Club  
(Corby's)," he explains.  

"There's a time for work and a time for play though," he continues more seriously, "and when it's time to work I'll do everything I can to give my best effort. The one thing that Notre Dame really teaches you is your faults. When I first came here I immediately realized that I would have to become stronger, faster and smarter on the field. I've worked hard for those goals and developed myself as a person along the way both mentally and physically. 
"There is so much here. All the people ­not just athletes -are talented in their own ways. Having had the opportunity to meet the different people here is something that will always stay with me." 
In an era where many athletes are used by the scholarships that universities give them, Griffith ha.o;; used Notre Dame in a positive manner through his own scholarship. 
"I think every father dreams ofhis own sons growing up to be like Kevin," says Blache. "He's just a phenomenal kid to be associated with." 
Chalk up another plus for Archbishop Alter High School in Kettering, Ohio. 

---------------------~--------------~~-.--~--·~.-~~~~-----.--..--..----~-------....---------------,_----~-------­
The Irish Extra -Miami 
tober 9, 1982 -page 3A 
Mark Richt has stepped in with poise to lead the Hurricane pass attack 
Continuedfrom page I A 
But it's obviously the passing game that funds the scholarships at Miami. Four Hur­ricane receivers are in double figures in receptions, with senior wide receiver Rocky Belk leading the way with 19 catches for 296 yards. Belk, you may or may not remember, caught a 63-yard touchdown last year against the Irish. 
Senior halfback Mark Rush ( 18 catches for 221 yards), Neal ( 14 for I04) and junior tight end Glenn Dennison ( 1 1 for 114) lend sup­port to the receiving corps. 
"They've got so many talented people to catch the football," says Faust, "that it's probably a quarterback's dream to play in that sort of an offense. And now that Miami has won two games with Richt back there, they'll be that much more confident coming in here." 
As for defense, Miami is strong up the middle with linebacker Greg Brown (57 tackles, including an incredible 21 against Florida on September 4), junior linebackerJay Brophy (50 tackles) and senior tackle Tony Chickillo ( 30 tackles and three sacks). As a whole, the Hurricane defense surrenders about 300 yards a game, only 140 per game on the ground. 
"I think Miami's defense has improved every week out," Faust says. "They've only given up 13 points a game. So we've got to be prepared to move the football more consis­tently than we did in East Lansing." 
The Irish offense has been plagued with several problems, the biggest of which has been poor field position. Opponents are averaging nearly 46 yards a punt, and the of­fense has had to start from inside its own 30­yard line on 27 of46 possessions. 
• • • Outlook 
But Faust is not worried about his offense, which produced over 400 yards in the first two games, but came up with only 280 against Michigan State last week. "We're not where we want to be offensively," he says. "But there's no reason to panic. We won a game Saturday on the road against an awfully good Michigan State defense even though we didn't score a touchdown. 
"A coach has to be happy anytime that happens. But we know we've got plenty of things to do to improve." 
Quarterback Blair Kiel is coming off his worst outing of the season last week against the Spartans. The junior from Columbus, Ind., threw three interceptions and had a generally ineffective day throwing, completing just 9-of-20 passes for 126 yards. 
One thing the Irish will have in their favor is that Miami has never won a game in Notre Dame Stadium in five tries since 1972. But Miami Coach Howard Schnellenberger is confident. 
"We have a lot of kids who have been in an awful lot of big ballgames," he says. "A win over NO would be very significant. I know the Irish will remember that Miami was the team that put them under .500 last year, and they'll be out to avenge that. 
"But more importantly for us, I think our football team has the confidence to believe that they can beat Notre Dame. 
"This is a real hallmark game for us," Schnellenberger con· eludes, "because no Miami team has ever won up in South Bend. We have a chance to accomplish what nobody else has been able to do." 
On the contrary, Faust is not as optimistic. 
"Miami's the best team we've played so far," he says. "They're an excellent football team and they're well-coached. They're bet­ter than last year in some areas." 
IfMiami has one weakness, it's that it is not a good road football team. Twice the Hurricanes have ventured into raucous enemy ·="" ~ territories -at Florida and Virginia Tech. Florida beat Mia · ·~ ..__, 17-14, while Virginia Tech gave the Hurricanes a scare succumbing just 14-8. 
Knowing this, Faust has made a plea for vocal fan support, espe­cially from the student body. 
"Our crowd gives us a big lift," Faust says. "Our student body hac; done an excellent job so far -they've been great. But we really need them this week. I hope it'll be a big advantage." 
Filling some famous shoes 
~ 
~ 
j ! 
j 
l j 
l 
1 
j 
1 j 
j ! 
' 
/ I 
Blair Kiel 

team to the VPI one-yard line. It's this kind of play that has prompted the coaches to say that Richt would be a starter on 90 percent ofthe nation's top college teams. 
"We are blessed that we have a great quar­terback like Mark Richt," Schnellenberger said. "Mark has been preparing for this situa­tion for several years. 
"Had he been at another school with a similar offense Richt probably would have found himself in a successful situation as a starter: breaking records, All-American, and possibly a Heisman candidate." 
"I know they all have confidence in me," Richt says of his teammates. "I think I've been around here long enough so that everyone knows what I can do. I am prepared to do whatever it takes to win." 
Schnellenberger puts the whole situation into perspective. "This is another obstacle that our football team will overcome," he says, "and one that will draw us close together and demand a little more effort from each ofour players." 
Since replacing Jim Kelly at quarterback, Mark Richt has played impressively. Richt will be starting his third game for the Hurricanes this weekend against Notre Dame. 
In his previous two outings, both Miami vic­tories ( 25-22 over Michigan State and 28-6 over Louisville), Richt has completed 38-of­69 passes for 367 yards and two touchdowns. 
"We feel he ( Richt) can throw just as well as Kelly," says Notre Dame head coach Gerry Faust. "He's done very well in the games he's played so far, and this is his fourth game he's going into. I don't think that Kel!y's injury has made any difference at all in their attack." 
With Kelly gone for the rest ofthe season, it looks like the burden of winning a national championship falls on the shoulders of Mark Richt. 
But if the first two games of his starting reign are any indication, Richt is more than ready to accept the challenge.
Jim Kelly 
ByJEAN ClAUDE DELA FRANCE 
Sports Editor 
The Miami Hurricane 
MIAMI -The Miami Hurricanes' 14-8 vic­
tory over Virginia Tech on September 18 
brought about more changes than just anoth­
er notch in the win column. 
The careers of two UM players were vastly altered. Jim Kelly, undoubtedly the best quar­terback im Miami history, suffered a separated shoulder and was lost for the season. Mark Richt, a former high school all-star quarter­back from Florida who played in Kelly's shadow for three years, became Miami's No. 1 quarterback. Richt, who had yet to start a game until Kelly's injury, now leads the Hur­ricanes' offense as they continue to go for the national championship that Coach Howard Schnellenberger is aiming for. 
Riehl's major asset is his poise. He knows that every time he stepson the field, he will be compared to Kelly. Yet his calmness and out· look remain unchanged. 
The one thing he has learned duting his ap· prenticeship is to be ready. "The No. 1 priority is to win on Saturdays," says the native of Boca Raton, Fla. "I don't personally set any particular number oftouchdowns to throw or how many completions I will get because it doesn't matter unless you win." 
Richt is perhaps best remembered for the game last year when he came in to lead Miami to a 21-20 win over Florida. With Kelly injured, Richt came in before 72,000 scream­ing fans and engineered two drives that produced ten points -giving Miami its fourth straight victory over the cross-state rival Gators. 
"That game taught me just to stay ready to play at all times," Richt says. "When I went into the Florida game, I was not really as prepared as I would've like to have been. Since then I've promised myself that I'd be ready in case I ever had to go in again." 
He was ready against Virginia Tech, and showed signs that he could move the offense when he had to. In that game he completed two-of-three passes for 28 yards to march the 
Saturday, October.9, 1982 -page 4A
The Irish Extra -Miami 
Notre Dame vs. Miami 

The Sports Staff Picks the Winners 
Each week, Tbe Obsen1er sports staff predict the outcome of the week's major college foot­ball games. Records are compiled as to how each writer does against the spread. HOME TEAM is in capital letters. 
SKIP DESJARDIN DAVE DZIEDZIC CHRIS NEEDLES WILL HARE RICH O'CONNOR Sports Editor Emeritus Assoc. Sports Editor Sports Editor Sports Writer Sports Writer 21-14-1 .6oo 20-15-1 .571 20-15·1 .571 19-16-1 .543 15-20-1 .429 
' 

GEORGIA over Mississippi by 13 Dawgs Dawgs Dawgs Rebels Dawgs. 
MICHIGAN over Michigan State by 11 Wolverines Spartans Wolverines Wolverines Spartans 
Iowa over INDIANA by 1 Hoosiers Hawkeyes Hawkeyes Hawkeyes Hawkeyes 
'\l'EST VIRGINIA over Boston College by 3 Mountaineers Mountaineers Mountaineers Eagles Eagles 
Texas over OKLAHOMA by 2 Horns Sooners Horns Horns Horns 
ALABAMA over Penn State by 3 Lions l.ions Lions Lions Lions 
ILLINOIS over Purdue by 12 lllini Illini Illini Boilers lllini 
WASHINGT0N over California by 13 Huskies Huskies Bears Huskies Huskies 
ARIZONA STATE over Stanford hy 6 Sun Devils Cardinal Sun Devils Sun Devils Cardinal 
AIR FORCE over Navy by 1 Middies Middies Middies Falcons Middies NOTRE DAME over Miami (Fla.) by 6 Irish Irish Irish Hurricanes Irish 


