
• • .Polishprod-page 7 

VOL. XVI, NO. 93 an independent srudent newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1982 
'Ebony' editor 

Reagan creates hostile clilllate 
Editor's note: Ebony magazine has abandoned me. politicalpower m America? Senior Editor Lerone Bennett dis­Q: Who, in your opinion, is the A: Yes and no. I think that we suf­cussed the Reagan administration's most influential black person in fered a major setback in the election effect un the shaping of black America today and why? of Ronald Reagan and that we wiU America with Observer reportt'T' A: I don't want to avoid the ques­have to see what this means five or Laurel-Ann Dooley. tion, but I don't think I would want ten years down the road. A lot will 
tn speak in term of any one in­depend upon what happens in the dividual. I think there are any num­Congressional elections; a lot will ber of influential blacks. depend on what happens in the next Collectively, I think the black presidential election. The only thing caucus is very influential and impor­I'm saying is that the game is far from tant; I think Jesse Jackson is a very over. It is impossible to say what the pcrsuaive voice on the national final outcome will be. On the other scene; I think ther are any number of hand, you have to look at the fact talented, persuasive and articulate that blacks continue to make gains

Lerone Bennett 
blacks across the country who arc on the local level. We suffered a set­making a lot of sense. I also think, back on the national level in the last 
Q: Do you feel Reagan's New 
and all formal and informal polls presidential election, but there is 
Fedt'T'alism is going to have a 
would indicate, that the publisher of still a hH of activity, a lot of 
negative effect on minorities? 
Ebony is certainly one of the most encouraging signs, on the local level. 
A: Oh yes. I think it has already had 

influential blacks in this country. The question will be decided eight, a negative effect on Americans, all 
Q: Are blacks gradually losing nine or ten years from now. 
Americans, in creating a climate which is hostile to the best interests of the black people of this country, the poor people of this country and 



Univer~ity dismisses 19 
ultimately to the interests ofall. 
Q: flas the shaping of black 

on hashtsfi charges
America been hindered since Reaxan took office? By DIANE DIRKERS tors offoreign study and threatened 
A: Yes. I think the President has StaffReporter to take their own course of action if created an atmosphere hostile to the the problem was not resolved. gains black people made in the '60s. Nineteen students in Notre Dame Notre Dame officials responded I think the general impact of his ad­foreign study programs were found by conducting investigations of ministration so far has been dis­to be involved in hashish abuse those students believed to be con­astrous to civil rights and to the while overseas, according to James nected with the drug abuse. 19 
economic situation of the black Roemer, Notre Dame Dean of Stu­Notre Dame students were dis­pt:oplt-in this country. I think also, dents. ccovered, "but the investigations and I don't think that this has been Two of the students, one from An­are by no means comp!t:ted, and stressed c:nougb, that it's bec:n dis­gicrs and one from lnnsbruck, were more may be found," stated Roemer. 
astrous to poor white people, to immediately dismissed from the Roemer feels the action is neither most middle-class white pc:ople, to program and the university. harsh nor unjust. "Students sign a white students and to white women. "We are still investigating and contract before they go overseas on So I think the net effect of Reagan's .have not made decisions on the any Notre Dame program that polides has been to put a paran­other I7," explained Roemer. advises them that if they get in­thesis around the gains that all these "There is no question that those I7 volved in drug abuse abroad they 
By KATHLEEN DOYLE But I am an eternal optimist. All groups made in the '60s. These will be dismissed. The question is will be dismissed from the univer­News Staff things arc on our side if managed polidcs raise large qut•stions about whether they will be aHowed to sity." correctly." the destiny and the future of this finish their semester abroad or dis­"There is a great deal ofuniversity General Robert Huyser advocated According to Huyser, one major 
country. Q: What is Ebony missed now." concern for drug'abuse overseas for the formation of a defense policy strength of the U.S. is its agricultural magazine's position on Reagan's The two students who have been two reasons," Roemer explained. which would deter major contlicts nature. He suggested the possibility economic policies? sent home had previously been dealt "First is the fact that the university involving strategic nuclear war at a of using food as a weapon in a man­
A: l:'bonydoes not run editorials. with by Roemer on disciplinary mat­does not condone the illegal use of lecture and panel discussion last ncr similar to the way OPEC uses oil. Huyser also cxpn·ssed his view
In a departure from custom, we en­ters. No criminal charges were drugs, due to their harmful effects. night. dorsed President Carter in the last brought against the students. The policy would also make it that another strength is the type of
Second, and maybe most important­society existing in America. "We
dection, but we don't generally run According to Roemer, some stu­ly, because of the harsh penalties clear that the United States will not dents of the lnnsbruck and Angiers agree to unacceptable concessions don't have to fence in our people to
editorials and that's the situation. given to Americans caught with 
Q: Do black Republicansfeel that programs had been engaged in the drugs oversea~." on American sovereignty and control them." Reagan bas abandoned them? widespread use ofhashish, a fact that Roemer cited the movie, The Mid­freedom. The U.S.S.R. has weaknesses, sut:h 
A: I wouldn't attempt to speak for became known to citizens and au­night Express. a ti-ue account which Huyser, a four-star general, has as economic trouble, ethnic and black Rqmblicans. The only thing I thoritit•s of the communities. Al­centers around an American student advised the past five presidmts and population controversies, and low 
would ~ay is that if I wen: a black legedly, these authorities arrested for possession of hashish in 
worked closely with the past three standards of living, which the U.S. anything, I would fed that Reagan approached the Notre Dame direc-Turkey, and subsequently spending president's. He has also worked with can take advantage of "Modern years in a brutal Turkish jail. "The 
Secretary of State Alexander Haig. technology has given us tht· ability Huyser gained international to show tht· Hussian pt·opk what the
possibility of such a fatt: happening to a Notre Dame student is very real. 
recognition as former President Car­West is like. This has caused dissatis­

Senate votes0jj'i0fji( 
The prospects are frightening," said ter's personal envoy during the final faction," Huyser said. Roemer. weeks of the Shah's reign. "The U.S. nn·ds to step out and be Roemer was notified of the "!look at the decade of the '80s as the world leader it used to be. We

ofstudentaffairsstUdy 
problem last Thursday, shortly after a trying decade," Huyser said. "!like need a policy that is so simple in 

Notre Dame officials had been to address it in the context of a statement that it can't be misun­By KATIE MCDONNELL alerted by foreign authorities. Al­decade ofcrises. I fed that what hap­derstood. In order to do this we S114ffReporter though most of them are traveling pens internally affects what happens must have the strength to back it 
during their semester break at this externally. We disgraced ourselves up." 

An ad hoc committee to study studentaffilir& haJ~ beet¥ 9l\killlly time, Roemer plans to send notifica­in Vietnam. Once we engaged in the An audience member originally approved by tbe Student Senate, it Wa$ anM.~m.<:cql;~. ~v~g~t tion ofdisciplinary action to the stu­conflict we should have fulfilled our from Latin America and now a the weekly Hall President's Coun~illll«tklghl Stanford ~··.··~. responsibilities." professor at Notre Dame expressed
dents involved by "the end of the 

committee will now begin its !itudy 6ftheend:pu~e ~h~n)> Huyser cited the Vietnam War as his beliefthat many countries resent
semester." dent affairs serves kl the ND/SM(; conununuy, in an ~#Qtt tq Kathleen Rice, St. Mary's Dean of the start of several current being considered "the backyard of problems. These include moral the U.S." "We don't want the U.S. as a 
evaluate the office's effectivenessijpil:;~f:U~ <·······.·········· ...·. (' ; <. V Student Affairs, denied having any knowledge of the situation. No St. 
decay, terrorism, dependence on leader ofthe world. We want the U.S. 
Mary's students were connected imports. and inflation. as a friend." Huyser emphasized the Soviet ·Huyser suggested that it is impor­
with the hashish abuse, claimed Rice. "If any of the girls were in­threat in what he believes to be a bi­tant for Americans to become in­


~~g~~~«•ij 
volved, I'd know it by now," said polar world controlled by two volved in government. "The surest 
In addition, HPC Chairman Mike Ml~L'tm re~rt¢d tba(, ~tl{>ii1f~hls' super-powers, the U.S. and U.S.S.R. way for evil to triumph is for good
Rice. 
attempt to seek the aid of Dr. 'fim.Qthy O'Meat~ in rtv~jJ ~ ) "Not since 1949, when NATO was people to do nothing. We arc at our
No names have been released,
decision ofthe recentlyrejected J«.:gprqpq$al;th.edc¢jsio~l«\'~ J>Y< formed, ha~ a forward movement best when faced with adversity. I
and, for purposes of confidentiality, none will be made known in the been made by the West. If we con­refer to America as a cup uf tea, tht· 
future. Dr. Charlt:s Parnell, director 
tinue on the trends we've been on, hotter the water, the better we
:r~~!:;:;::r~~~•• 
we arc headed for disaster. This is brew." Huyser stressed the impor· O'Meara will be attending an !{PCmecting.lp Mare})~ AA!l ~ wlU; was out of town and could not be the first time since World War II that tance of voting and advising law­
of the university programs abroad 
then re<lrc86 the situation. ··. .·· 
we a position of inferiority.
Se~HPC, reached for comment. are at makt·rs. 





By The Obsen1er and The Associated Press 
Electricity to part of the Notre Dame campus went out last night at approximately 9 p.m. According to a spokesman at the power plant, a faulty feeder line was responsible for the outage, which affected Keenan, Stanford, Lewis, Columbia, and the Laundry. Students used candles from the Grotto and flashlights to see inside the darkened dorms, a Keenan resident reported, noting that the students did pay for the candles. -The Obseroer 
President Reagan, winding up a kickoff sates trip for his latest economic program, declared yesterday he has yet to wit­ness a better product offered by critics who should "put up or shu.t up." But in Washington, there was no diminishing ofthe outcry, from foe and even friend, over his big-deficit scenario for the new fiscal year. One key Democrat, in fact, did put up -with a plan to freeze expenditures and junk the 1983 phase ofthe president's tax cut. And even Senate Republican Leader Howard Baker Jr., a longtime Reagan loyalist, found that alternative -particularly the idea of holding spending to 1982levels-"intriguing." The president, on a two-day trip to the Midwest, complained that even before he announced the 1983 budget, calling for a deficit of $91.5 billion, "you could hear the sound ofknees jerking all over Washington. The knee-jerk reac­tion and instant analysis are as hasty as they were incorrect." Meanwhile, Reagan's chief economic strategists were buffeted by Republicans and Democrats alike as they opened the administra­tion's pitch for the S757.6 billion package on Capitol Hill. House Republican Leader Robert Michel of Illinois listened to Budget Director David Stockman and Treasury Secretary Donald Regan, then pronounced the deficit "mind-boggling ...hard to swallow." 
-AP 
Republicans and Democrats swapped 
charges on the House floor yesterday about who was to blame for the recession. But officials said almost everyone would vote for $2.3 billion in additional benefits and services for the unemployed. Presi­dent Reagan has asked for the money to prevent states from running out of funds for unemployment benefits and to restore budget cuts he won last year in money for employment service workers. Leaders of both parties said they expected that by early evening, the House would give final approval to the plan, along with a measure to in­crease spending on low-income energy assistance by $123 million. The administration opposes that measure, but Republicans were m*ing no organized attempt to defeat it. Even though final approval for the jobless benefits bill was a certainty, members ofboth parties 
used the occasion for a partisan political debate. -AP 
Notre Dame's College Bowl team placed 
second among 16 contestants in the Region IX Tournament last weekend (Feb. 5-7). The Irish overwhelmed Southern Illinois­Edwardsville ( 360-75), Illinois Weseyan( 410-115 ), and the Univer­sity of Illinois (245-175 ), before losing to eventual champion Purdue (230-270) in the first ofthree hotly contested matches. After that loss in the double elimination set-up, Notre Dame rebounded well by trouncing Indiana University (270-120) and defeating Purdue ( 2 50-160), forcing a third game for the championship with the Boilermakers. Both teams played, but Purdue won 230-165. Notre Dame players were Ed Bylina, Paul DiNardo, Scott jacobs and Ray Davis. -The Obseroer. 
Martial law authorities said yesterday they sen­tenced a woman strike organizer to 10 years' imprisonment and heard a weeping former Polish diplomat plead guilty to spying for the United States. At the same time, a deputy prime minister expressed hope that Solidarity union leader Lech Walesa would soon be freed from detention. The 1 0-year sentence, reported by the army newspaper Zolnierz Wolnosci, was believed to be the hru:shest meted out since martial law was imposed Dec. 13. The papersatd the naval court in Gdynia passed sentence on Ewa Kubasiewicz, who was charged with nine other defendants with organizing a strike at Poland's merchant marine college in the Baltic port city. They were also found guilty of printing and disseminating "leaflets containing false information liable to evoke disquiet and disturbances." The 
other defendants received sentences ranging from three to nine 
vears. -AP 
SecretaryofStateAlexander M. Haig]r. said yesterday the Soviet Union and Poland had brought East and West to "a critical cross-roads in the postwar history in Europe" by imposing martial law in Poland. "We would be threatening the future peace ofEurope if we ignored this dramatic attack on international principles," Haig told the 35-nation Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe. "We cannot pretend to build up the. structure ofpeace and. security here in Madrid while the foundation for that structure is being undermined in Poland." The conference is a follow-up session to the 1975 Helsinki accords designed to promote security and cooperation in Europe. It involves Western European countries, East bloc countries, the United States and Canada. The Madrid meeting has been trying to extend the pact to ease East-West tensions in Europe. It was closed to the press, and aides distributed copies of 
Haig's remarks to reporters. -AP 
The Senate curtailed yesterday a liberal filibuster of legislation which would virtually eliminate busing as a tool for desegregating public schools. By a vote of 63 to 33, the Senate ~greed to curb the stalling tactics of a small bipartisan group, and Instead set the clock running on a final I00 hours ofdebate. Despite the vote, liberal opponents led by Sen. Lowell Weicker, R-Conn., vowed .t? conti~ue the fight. "We will go several nights all night before tt s over, said Sen. Bob Packwood, R-Ot'e. "It will heighten awareness O'fthe issue." Another opponent, Max Baucus D-Mont. complained: "Thili is a very dangerous action we are taking her~ to~y. W~ are u~dermining our fundamental form ofgovernment" by tmposmg busmg restrictions on the federal courts. A final show­down on the busing battle was likely to be deferred until after a congressional Lincoln's Day recess which ends February 22. -AP · 
Increasing CloudineSS and very cold today. High around 10 above. Mostly cloudy tonight night. Low zero to 5 above. Sunny and not so cold tomorrow. High around 20. -AP 
Wednesday, February 10, 1982-page 2 
Rugby'Club' saves escort service 
An alumnus told students at a recent meeting that it is 
"inconceivable that the sons and daughters of Notre 
Dame have to walk the campus in fear." Student 
Government attempted to address the issue ofcampus 
safety by establishing an escort service. 
The service didn't operate for two continual years 
until February 1981, when Patrick Borchers and Claire 
Padgett revived it, with escorts 'stationed at the 
Memorial library and an on-call service run by the Hall 
Presidents Council. 
Borchers said in an Obseroer article that the service 
wouldn't take "much of a guy's time," adding that he 
thought "people at Notre Dame want to be able to help, 
and are just looking for the chance. Well, he noted, here 
is the chance." 
The on-call service lasted approximately six weeks. 
Current escort service coordinator Brian Conway said 
he believes a combination offactors caused the cancel­
lation. "The on-call procedure was self-defeating," he 
noted. "Girls had to walk themselves to LaFortune to 
answer phones requesting escorts. Combined with a lack ofinterest, the on-call service failed." 
The library service continued, returning after Oc­tober break this term. "The service is most necessary during cold weather, when no one is on campus," Con­way said. "The library service may end after spring break." 
Conway describes the es­cort service as "a preventative thing." "If it's known that Notre Dame has an escort service," Conway notes, "someone who is looking to rob or rape would be less likely to look here for a victim." 
The Hall President's Council( HPC), however, experienced difficulty maintammg the service. Conway said that in general, the halls didn't see a need for it. "They didn't think the women would use it, but they didn't give it a fair enough run to find out," he added, noting that all eight women's dorms expressed an interest in the service. "Relatively few ofthe men's dorms supported it," he said. 
"I took a poll at an HPC meeting earlier this semester, asking the presidents ofmen's dorms ifthey would sup­port a trial period. Those that agreed selected their own nights. Three dorms refused to participate. Of those that agreed to participate, three dorms showed up for the entire trial period." 
Conway recently took responsibility for the service away from the HPC, and offered it to the Rugby club'. "I couldn't see the HPC's system being effective ifit's not consistent," Conway said. The overall attendance by volunteers to walk women home was sporadic. 
Conway said the change would aid in returning the Rugby players to club stature by giving them the oppor­tunity to work their required hours of community service. 
The Rugby players lost their club stature after many of them perfomed the nude "elephant walk" at a Texas 

by The Black Liberated Arts Center, Inc. 7PM Wednesday, 
Feb.lO 


WANTTO 
Mandatory Meeting Class offices need fUll ticket 
-C Commissioner ursday, 2/11 7 PM 
Room 2-D LaFortune 
.______can OBUD for more info 

bar during a spring trip last year. The Rugby players will supply escorts at the library Sunday through Thursday nights from 10 p.m. until 
11:45 p.m. to walk women home. 
Conway supports the Rugby effort. "I think it's great," he said. "It shows that they want to do something at Notre Dame as well as in the Northeast neighborhood. They seem enthusiastic about the idea, and should be more responsible in working shifts than the halls have been in the past." The players are required to perform 1200 total hours of volunteer service by February 15, according to Brian Tucker, a player who notes that the players have 200 hours left to complete. 
Tucker said that he "doesn't see why " the team 
wouldn't continue providing the escort service, adding that it would build up good will and a sense of unity among the players. 
"We're getting something out of it. It is a service, and we get to play rugby." 
Tucker emphasized that the escort service is neces­sary. "Ifpeople use it-they perceive a danger. They must sense a danger if they ask a stranger to walk them home. I know that ifwe have it, volunteers will be there. We take this volunteer work seriously, with a sense of duty. Service is as much a part of being on the rugby team as practice is." 
The Rugby players began 

practicing Monday, and an­ticipate playing this year. "We still have to talk to (Dean) Roemer," Tucker said. "As far as I know, ifit's all right with Roemer, Corrigan, and Kelly, we can play. It hinges on Roemer." 
The Rugby players seem to have learned the meaning of service. Maybe some men's hall residents ought to take an "elephant walk" in Texas. 
Observer notes.________, 
The Obseroer is always looking for new repor­ters. Ifyou are interested in reporting call The Ob­seroer at 239-5303 or visit The Obseroer office on the third floor ofLaFortune and ask for Kelli Flint, a News Editor or the Day Editor. 
Design Assistants are also needed to work on the Observer. Any interested persons contact Mike Monk at 1 181. 
ULTURAL ARTS FESTIVAL 1982 presents 
~()() lll()U~Ilt 411 Wf? (()uIcl-()() wcl§ ()c}(l£f?~~ 
a poetic musical 

Design Editor.............. Ver Berkmoes, Ret. Design Assistants.................. Paul McGinn Layout Staff.................................. Sue Flynn Many rookies Typesetters .......................... )im MacLennan Bruce Oaklev News Assistant....................... Dave Sarphi~ Copy Editors .................. Maureen O'Toole Kathy Murray joe Musumeci Features Layout.............. Gregory Swiercz Sports Copy Editor .................. Pete Manzo Typist ....................................... Laura Degnan NDDayEdilor.....................)oe Musumeci SMC Day Editor............... Toni Rutherford Ad Deslgn ............................... )ohn & Corby Photographer ......................... Cheryl Ertelt Guest Appearances ..............................Sully Peep Heap Sleep Birthday Roper Etc. Ya c'n say whut ya like, I'll not !o'er the shields! 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS publiShed Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacation penods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Marys Col· lege Subscnptlons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wntlng The Observer P 0 Box Q Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer 1s a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 
••Allcl 
The Observer Wednesday, February 10, 1982-page 3 
'GoodNews' 
Can1pus Ministry pron1otes ideals 
By MIKE LEPRE 
News Staff 
Christians in today's society should keep the Good News ofjesus alive amidst all of the problems in our complex world, according to Father David Schlaver. 
As part ofNotre Dame's week long Justice Teach-In program, the direc­tor of Campus Ministry asked his audience "If Jesus were to come back to the world today, would he recognize the Gospel that we preach and live?" Claiming that the majority of people are preoccupied with trying to "get ahead", Schlaver called for christians to take a "new look" on life. 
Pointing to the biblical character ofJonah, who spent three days and nights in the belly of a whale until finally agreeing to help out the Lord, Father Schlavcr used this example to support his belief that "even the 
most reluctant witness could be the 
agent of the good news." 
Father Schlaver feels that by 

avoiding the injustices of the world 
we are actually living our lives in the 
belly of a whale, where we feel safe 
and protected. · 
"If we as Christians believe that jesus' preaching is the guide we should follow," Father stated, "more than just lip service is necessary when we profess this belief." Father Schlaver beleves that the way to begin correcting Injustices is to have a full understanding ofthe Gospel it­selfand the life ofJesus. 
The major goal ofChristian under­standing should be an attempt to recognize the "true meaning of the Good News" according to Schlaver. He believes that "the Gospel was and is goodness for the poor" and that Christians must aid the poor in any way that they possibly can. 
Jesus' Sermon on the Mount, 

Indiana students propose financial aid measures 
By TIM PETfERS 
News Staff 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu· 
dent governments have joined other 
Indiana student leaders in an effort 
to offset some of the federal and 
state cuts in financial aid, according 
to Emmie Lopez, representative of 
the Saint Mary's student govcrn­
mt•nt. The Indiana Student 
Legislative Council has proposed 
measures which, if enacted, would 
replace some of the lost financial aid 
funding. 
The Indiana Student Legislative 
Council is a coalition of student 
leaders from 18 colleges and univer· 
sitics In the state. According to 
Lopez, the council has been meeting 
every two weeks since Oct. to dis­
cuss common concerns ofthe mem­
ber schools. 
The council proposed two 
measures at their last meeting on Jan. 30, Lopez said. They asked the Indiana legislature to allocate money for the State Students Assis· tance Committee to be earmarked for financial aid. They also asked for an increase in the state income tax 
from 1.9 percent to 2 percent, and for that revenue, between 140 and ISO million, to be allocated for financial aid. 
"Most ofthe schools involved are public schools," said Lopez. "These schools will suffer in enrollment be­cause ofthe cuts. The legislature cut the bugets ofstate universities by I 0 percent, and these cuts came out of student activities and financial aid." 
Lopez stated that both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame student g1ivernments have been in cor­respondence with the council since last Nov.. She attended the last meeting representing Saint Mary's . 
... HPC 

continued from page 1 
In other HPC news, students were reminded to attend a one-hour presentation by security to be given in each of the women's dorms on campus Feb. 15-18. 
The bus trip to Toronto, leaving March 4, is still offering '5·1 0 open seats, as well, for a cost of S45.00. Anyone interested in this weekend trip should contact the Student Government offices. 
Finally, Grace Hall is sponsoring the first annual Grace Hall Spelling Bee, to be held Mon. Feb. 15, at II 
p.m. in the first floor of the dorm. Each section wiU be represented by one participant, and the winning section will receive a case of cham­pagne. 
She said that both schools are plan· ning to send representatives to future meetings. 
Other schools involved include Indiana University, Purdue Univer­sity and Ball State University. Meetings arc held on the campuses of Indiana University and Purdue University at Indianapolis. 
Lopez doubted that the lt:gislature would enact the measures recom­mended by the committccc "Few legislators will vote for a tax in­crease in an election year. But it is important that the students make their voices heard." 

called the "great composite ofjesus' 
teachings" by Schlaver, outlines the 
Christian ideals that we should be 
following today. Schlaver concedes, 
however, that very often our society 
"rejects those who follow the rules 
jesus gave us on the Mount." 
"The will of God commands us to 

seek justice in the affairs of human 
life," Schlaver reflected. This will 
should compel us to share, work 
towards equality, and try to serve 
others instead of desiring to 
dominate them. 
Schlaver, who spent two years in 

Bangladesh before coming to Notre 
Dame this july, feels that Americans 
have not been acquainted with 
many of the problems which the 
poor in the Eastern World face. 
In America, "we know no other 

way because our way has served us 
so well," relates Father Schlaver, 
pointing out that while "we want 
privacy and space to survive, the 
poor of the world want food, jobs, 
and medicine." 
Father Schlaver further believes that our current economic priorities have taken presidl~nce over our humane ones. "We have turned un­limited desire into virtue" says Father of Western materialism. Schlaver stated that the. Church has the capability to unit}· many peoples and to proclaim that-"God rules the world." 
While Father Schlaver docs not ignore the complexity ofthe issue of poverty, he strongly asserts that the individual must examine his own ac­tions if the Lord's will is to be carried Out. 
·As Christians Father Schlaver feels that we should constantly remind ourselves that "we belong to God and therefore must reflect his image in all we do. 

Attention Juniors! 
Seating Reservations for Junior Parents Weekend President's Dinner will be held Wednesday, February 1Oth Thursday, February 11th 7-9 p.m. in the Nazz 
••¥ First Come First Serve. 

¥¥¥ Attend with frjends you wish to sit with or near or bring their l.D.s (maximum-6/.D. s) 
¥ ¥ • Note: You must know their home addresses and localphone numbers. 

CkG out flee 

OAKROOM CAFE 
Ut Seutk 'OUtUtg KcaU'a P&UJ Cole 
For a late nite snack 
Nightly Specials Com lete with a new 
jukebox open Mon.-Thurs 9-12 am Fri.-Sat. 9 · 2 am --.c:"'"'=::::r-"7----::1~,......._ 


BankofAmerica· Careerhtterviews 

Istherea placefor you inournewworldofbanking? 
Bank ofAmerica is conducting career interviews for University ofNotre Dame graduate students on Monday, February 22. See your school place­ment office for more information about a career at Bank ofAmerica. 
BANKoF AMERICA m 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
©1982 Bank of Amenca NT&SA • Member FDIC 



PEACE -CORPS MEANS BUSINESS·. 
Teach bookkeeping in Belize. Help manage a handicraft shop in Tonga. Work with Filipino lending guidelines. In over 60 countries Peace Corps can use your business skills. Knowledge in areas like accounting, budgeting, personnel management, and marketing can help pro­vide jobs and economic growth. 
Register Now at the Placement Bureau for Interview: Feb. 23 & 24 
• B.D. Student Government presents lecture and discussion with 
AMBASSADOR DOBALD McBEBBY FORMER V .S. B.llPB.IlSJJNTATIVE TO THE UNITED RATIONS 
"A World view: The Third World and Other Issues" Wednesday, February 10, 1982 
1:80 PM Library Lounge 
• 
~··:>f.·············...·~ ~
~ 
Wednesday, February 10, 1982 -page 4 
ObserverSpecial Governm.ent Career Day 
Editor's note: The Placement areas. There ace about 125 agencies tion in Career Day? Bureau is sponsoring the fifth an­on the list. We have about 25 Federal A: Student enthusiasm bas been nual Government Career Day agencies that come and interview overwhelming. Over the last two Thursday in the LaFortune Ball­students every year that are in­years, 300 to 350 students attended. room. Observer Executive News cluded on the list. Due to cutbacks This year we expect at least that Editor Kelli Flint recently discussed in ·federal agencies, only about 30 many, and hope for a slight in­the origin andpurpose ofthe affair will be represented at the Career crease. There bas been a general with Placement Specialist Paul Day. One local agency will appear downturn in federal hiring in the Reynolds. also. No state agencies will appeac6. last couple ofyears. We hope that 
Last year, 32 agencies were within the next six months, cut­represented. backs will be reduced and hiring Q:What is the usual participa-will return to an upswing. 

Placement Bureau 
Paul Reynold$ 
provides agency info 
Q: What initiated Government 
could help them this summer, at
CareerDay? By GREGORY SWIERCZ 
A: Kathleen Rossman, former graduation, and down the road."
Features Editor 
career counselor and rector of James Conley, spokesman for the Walsh Hall had many students come Foreign Service Program in the State
In accordance with Career Ex­in for information about careers ploration Week, the Placement Depanment, stated that when the economy lags, the demand for
involving the Federal Government, Bureau is sponsoring its fifth annual and initiated Career Day.This is a Government Career Day tomorrow government applications jumps career informational session, rather in LaFonune Student Center. proportionally. Although this trend 
than a recruiting session. Some Representatives from 25 federal, occurs in most recessions, "The agencies do have positions and bring state, and local agencies will be in Foreign Service applicants remain applications, so it is somewhat a attendance from 12:00 noon to 4 
constant," stated Conley. He also 
recruiting session. The main em­p.m. to answer questions and said that while Notre Dame graduates ace well represented in
phasis, however, is information. provide literature and application 
Q: What does the Placement materials to interested students. governmental agencies, NO 
graduates ace underrepresented in
Bureau hope to accomplish? Paul J. Reynolds, Placement 
A: There are several goals. In the Specialist and director of the Foreign Service. Foreign Service is private business sector, the beeds Government Career Day, distin­considered one of the more difficult don't change dramatically from one · guished the event from job inter­areas of the Federal Government to year to the next, as do the needs of views saying that the primary enter into, but Conley also blames 
the underrepresentation on an un­
the Federal Government. It is dif­purpose for the Day is to provide the ficult for the Placement Bureau to students with the information aware general public. Included in the career fair will be
keep up with these changes, and needed to acquire jobs in municipal probably more beneficial for the stu­and governmental positions. representatives from the Peace Corps, armed forcet>, the Postal
dents to get information directly Entering its fifth year, the Career from the sources rather than from Day has undergone minor shifts in Service, the Veterans Administra­written information, which may not emphases. While the Day is primari­
tion, the Depan~ents of State, Treasury, Defense, Heath and
be as up-to-date. ly an information session, federal Human Services and the Army. The
Q:How are the representatives agencies have been known to seek 
Federal Aviation Administration, the
selected? applicants for various positions. "It's Federal Bureau of Investigation, theA: We receive a list from the dillerent every year," said Reynolds. 
Civil Service Commission and theoffices of personnel management in "The t>conomy isn't too great right Cities of South Bend and In­
CJ;licago and Indianapolis, listing the now, but the students have the dianapolis will also have
federal agencies in those regional chance to gain the information. This 
representatives in attendance, The Government ·career Day fol­
lows recent
·r--------------------------------------, a application drive 
I 

sponsored by various Notre Dame
I 


Alumni Clubs to collect applications for student summer employment. Due to the overwhelming response for Alumni Association applications as well as the state of the economy, the Government Career Day will prove to be an informative and per­tinent campus event. 
Peace Corps 
fARnaPATE INTHE NOjslfC rep vtstts
I 

campus 
ByDANKOPP 
News Staff 
Peace Corps Representative 
Clovia Sloan visited Notre Dame
ATTENTION!! 
Monday and yesterday to recruit stu­dents for the overseas volunteer service. She held an information ses­
~ l!P..P.Sl~~.t.M.!!l.P.!~.u.l\i:l~ for a~! ~ 
sion Monday night and spoke with
iC Mardi Gras Dancers--all those who stgned~ interested students. Tomorrow the Government she will be on campus
iC up, whether sponsorshtps were sold or no¢ for the Government Career Day. 
Miss· Sloan, who averages four
.. ·---I 
TEACH·IN trips a year to Notre Dame, said of her talk Monday night, "The crowd
.. **********'-1C 
wasn't as enthusiastic as I would've
..~ Information & Explanation about *~ liked, they didn't ask many ques­tions, but the amount was good ­
""" Saturday's Dance-a-thon will be given. ! V\ Feh. 8-14 about twenty showed up and took
rv applications." 
She has discovered that Notre . Dame does not contribute as many
~ ~!fif*******'* ~ ' volunteers to the organization 
as might be expected. "The Notre Dame students are maybe not as ~ ~!J· ~-Library Aud. iC lectures concern1ng Jllsttce. As/C great in numbers, but once they go 
iC .. ~<~~~ 7:00pm iC Aweek ttf sem1nors, d1sc.vsSIIns, anti 
through the Peace Corps system the 
quality has been good." She at­
i( . Wed.,Feb.lO iC tributes this lack of quantity to a competing Holy Cross program which is much less demanding. 
iC ' iC t:tuest1ons! Get Involved! 
.........................¥¥¥¥~ 
·---------------~-----------------------· 
Wednesday, February 10, 1982 -page 5
Editorials 
The 'Nattering Nabobs of Negativism' 
Who needs "nattering nabobs of The Observer, "He used to challenge because people can become so com­weapons would almost surely be 
Anthony Walton
negativism?" Though the phrase is us on our belief in God and l had to fortable that they refuse to question used in Europe) the avoidance of war Spiro Agnew's, the sentiment seems think in order to defend my view­anything, and slowly have ultimate is not cowardice, it is intelligence. to be universal. It goes without point... " This student was for control oftheir lives, in the sense that But, such intelligence is often saying that people do nutlike bearers Shapiro, another, whom l assume they make decisions important to called 'idealism,' which is interest­of bad news, but there is in society an found fault with him said "His class them, taken away. ingly ironic, because lately. idealism active dislike of anyone deemed 'too was never comfortable." If one's Americans are especially suscep­has taken a bad rap. Whether of thought is convenient, idealism is critical.' For example, consider the beliefs are not challenged, or are tible to this sort of somnolence be­someone is called 'a bleeding heart not something that is merely fas­old saw "if you don't have some­easily shaken, they cannot be said to cause of the isolation and relative liberal'(whatever that means), an hionable, it has to be a way of life. It thing good to say, don't say it.'' This be beliefs. It is disappointng that a youth of the country. One way that 'idealistic dreamer,' or (another is also nothing to be ashamed of. All piece of homespun wisdom has a lot student would find an this is borne out is in American at­ironic variation) a 'cynic,' it is advances in society have been of truth in it, it's a prudent way to run "uncomfortable classroom situa­titudes toward war and weapons. implied that the person is misguided brought about by 'idealistic one's personal life; if it were tion" (and I assume he wasn't refer­Americans have not recently ex­in seeking nobler goals. Being dreamers' and will continue to be, followed completely in all aspects of ring to the furniture) to be a problem. perienced a war on their soil, and as a idealistic is equated with being because they are the ones who society, nothing would ever change. The last place a student should expect result do not view it in the same way negative. recognize inequities problems in 
There is a general attitude in the to be comforted is in the classroom, if as Europeans. The current European According to popular thought (in society and try to correct them. With country (and on this campus) that he expects to really learn anything. push for neutralism has been called Washington and other places) recognition of problems comes resists criticism and different points It is continually amazing how 95 ''communist-backed,'' seeking to aid the disadvantaged is criticism of the status quo, that of view. One reason for the current percent of the population can go day­"cowardice," and "idealism." Yet naive, opposing nuclear weapons is dreaded 'negativism.' If being such attitude is the endorsement of it by to-day without being alarmed by the when the position of the average cowardly, not trusting big business is a critic means being 'a nabob of the Reagan administration and its events in the world. Picking up any European civilian is considered (in a cynical, and criticizing any of these negativism,' I'd say that's a good 
members. James Watt r newspaper should be enough to U.S.-Soviet conflict, nuclear things is negative. Thou!!h this kind thing to be. meet with critical members of shock people into some kind of ac­Congress and the press, the FB l and tion on issues that are vital to their C !A ask for a more lax interpretation lives, but somehow it doesn't bother of national security issues, ami Mr. them. I attribute this to a Jack of im­Reagan himself decries those who agination on the part of the general criticize his policies, saying that population, a common feeling of critics should provide encourage­"since it hasn't happened yet, it ment, not sow seeds of doubt. won't." This attitude allows for all 
But it goes deeper than that. T.S. kinds of activities (nuclear weapons Eliot once said "People cannot stand build-up, nuclear power, chemical too much reality.'· It seems that pollution, etc.) to proceed without people consciously avoid consider­any serious questioning of the ing issues of life and society too ramifications of the policies. seriously because they are afraid of I recall a recent column of Garry what too close an analysis of the Wills (one of the greater nabobs) situation might reveal. A good ex­concerning the problem of nuclear ample can be found in the recent plants being bombed by the enemy in Humanties Seminar 'controversy' a war. Such an attack would cause involving Prof. Samuel Shapiro. apocalyptic destruction with conven­Shapiro was relieved of teaching tional bombs, unthinkable destruc­duties in a Humanties Seminar class. tion with nuclear bombs. Many The official story is that there was a dismiss his warning as negative car­'schedule change,' while rumor has ping, unconstructive doomsaying, it that Shapiro was offending several but such an attitude ignores the pos­students with his views. sibility that it could happen. This 
According to a student quoted in again raises the issue of 'comfort,' 
The 'New Federalism' Con 

Ronald Reagan pretends that he is problems. That was the condition of returning us to the vision of this na­America before its Constitution was tion's founders which is "new ratified; but not after. The framers of federalism." Nothing could be fur­that document did not believe local ther from the truth. people knew best how to handle their The president said this govern­problems. They wanted outside ar­ment was established on the ideal of biters to settle disputes since, as letting local units take care of local Madison put it in Federalist No. I 0, 
P.O.BoxQ 
Dear Editor: dicativc of a deeper problem 
I have three things to say regard­concerning the general treatment of ing John Macor's "Inside Wednes­student interests by a hard-nosed and day" article published in The uncompromising administration. I Ohserver Feb. 3. cannot help but think that it is the 
One, I would hope that the reason constant clamor created by those who there is so Iittle uproar over the recent persist in raising issues as petty as rejection of the new keg proprosal is this one (having kegs) which is that most students on this campus responsible for the cold relationship consider the issue of too little impor­that exists between student govern­tance. ment and the administration. 
Two, I'm glad I do not have Fr. I want to add that I am not making Van Wovlcar's job. Having to con­this response in the interest of tinuously face students who insist expressing my views about allowing that having kegs on campus is essen­kegs on campus, but rather in defense tial to their social well-being would of Fr. Van Wovlear, the attacks upon be more than I could bear. whom I .felt were made with un­
Three, how ironic that Macor necessary and unjustified bitterness. should consider the final decision Michael Meisch made by Van Wovlear to he in­
-------------------------J 
"No man is allowed to be a judge in 
his own cause.'' 
It was the experience of the colonies, and of the states under the Articles fo the Confederation, that frontiersmen were most likely to be savage toward the Indians. That was true in the 17th Century at the time of Bacon's rebellion. It was true of the Pennsylvanians who slaughtered In­dians before the Revolution. and heated the cool Benjamin Franklin's rhetoric to passionate denunciation of his fellow white men. 
It was true under the Articles of Confederation, John Jay wrote, in Federalist No. 3, that "there are several instances of Indian hostilities having been provoked by the im­proper conduct of individual states.'' The original Federalist proposed to remedy this by establishing a strong central government to arbitrate such dispute, what Madison's No. 10 called "the delegation of the govern­
ment ...to a small number of 
citizens." 
Mr. Reagan's belief that local citizens best understand local problems repeats the old southern as­surance that outsiders could not un­derstand "their" blacks as the local white establishment did. Ironically, President Reagan says that spirit has been dissipated by the anti­discrimination and voting rights acts. But those acts only came into being because local affairs were not left to local prejudice. because there was an appeal to the federal government. Each of these acts was resisted with Reagan's own arguments for "states" rights. 
Prejudice breeds in proximity, not at a distance. Those involved arc biased. Each wave of immigrants has hated the ethnic groups that im­mediately preceded or followed it, since those were the immediate com­petitors for jobs and status. 
What is needed where such pas­sions clash is cool arbitration; and that is what Madison said the national government woJld supply. As Gor­don Wood has written, Madison "wanted it (the national government) to be a disinterested and dispas­sionate umpire in disputes." And Edmund Morgan says that Madison's scheme of representation was meant to "climate the local pressures and locally oriented candidates that had made the state governments a dis­grace. 
President Reagan is trying to return us not to the original vision of 
GIDTJ Wills 
---------.-­
Outrider 

the Constitution, but to the situation 
that preceded the Constitution, and 
which the Constitution was meant to 
remedy. The 18th-century notion of 
"disinterested" government by vir· 
tuous arbitrators is one Mr. Reagan can have no sympathy with. He thinks that people should be judges of their own cause, even if that doctrine has, historically, upheld "local freedoms" like lynching. 
In an age of technological dependence, the idea of separate "sovereign states" (to use Reagan's inaccurate formula) is impossible, even at the technical level. I notice that right-wingers do not want to abolish the FB l's fingerprint bank, and let the local police (or lynchers) handle local crime. Criminals move too fast and frequently from locale to locale these days. So does everything in our society. The job is to establish fair overall procedures. Or so, at least. John Jay and Madison would say. 
Editorial Board

==Ihe=ObseLVer== 
l:'ditor·in-Chief......... ....................John McGrath 
Founded November 3, 1966 
Executine News Editor.... . . Kelli Flint Sports Editor... .......................... Skin Desjardin 
The Ob.rcrr-•er is an independent newspaper published by the students of the Neu•s Editor.............................Davill Rickabaugh Photo Editor . .................... .. .. John Macor University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not n~Xessarily SJ1C Executit'e Editor...........71-lary Agnes Carq Editorial< Editor..................... .Aothonv Walron refl~Xt the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report­SMC Neu•s Editor......................C:athy Domanico J:eatures Ed.itor .........................Gregory Swiercz ed as. accurately and as obj~Xtively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views Department Managers of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and 
Business Manager.. ..Rich Coppola Production Manager...................Mkhacl Monk 
the free expression of varying opinions on campus, throu&h letters, is encouuged. 
Controller......... . .......... .joe Multlur Circulation Manager .............Tom Maclennan Advertising Manager.......... ............Chris Owen -~)•stems Manager ........................... Bruce Oakley
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame,IN 46556 
-~·-~­

~~S H0 W C (~liiiiiiSiiiEIIIilliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiWeiiidniiiesdiiiayiii,
FeiiibruiiiaryiiiliiiO,liii98iii2iiipiiiageiii6 
WSND celebrates 35 years 
WSND-Thewayitwasin 1957 
HPC members just 'getinvolved' with life 
E
ach Tuesday evening, the presidents ofNotre Dame's twenty-five dorms meet in order to "get to know each other and coordinate interhall activities, besides getting involved in campus-wide issues." 
Carol Camp 

According to HPC chairman Mike Martin, these are just a few of the objectives that HPC strives to attain in its weekly meetings. Besides discussing issues which pertain to the dorms on campus, the HPC "also deals with a lot ofissues other than dorm life." 
Throughout the 1981-1982 year, the HPC has taken the initiative in recognizing the need for changes on campus. Last fall, HPC mem­bers devised and adopted an alcohol policy which provided dorms with guidelines for parties and other functions involving the use of alcohol. In Martin's view, this action "expresses a role HPC tries to play--we do show concern for people in our dorms. We saw problems with alcohol abuse and we wanted to help." 
Ironically, perhaps the greatest success HPC has experienced thus far this year is the creation ofthe keg proposal. This proposal. which was co-authored by Martin and HPC members Paul Callahan, jack McKenna, and Lloyd Burke, would have established a semester-long trial period for the use ofkegs on campus. Although the proposal failed to gain the approval ofthe Office ofStudent Affairs, Martin nevertheless cites its creation and its passage by the CLC as a tremen­dous success. He states: "It was fantastic to see the hall presidents and rectors working together on something and reaching a com­promise that was satisfying to both parties." Another factor which favorably influenced th' proposal's development was that each of the hall presidents discussed it in detail with their rectors. This ex­change of ideas provided a great deal ofadditional input, and as a result, the measure was eventually approved by the CLC. 
While reflecting upon his objectives as this year's HPC chairman. Martin emphasized his intention "to steer the HPC toward being a body concerned with practical issues, not semantic arguments." He also stressed the importance of"seeking out issues on campus-­seeking them out, solving them, and even making issues from things that need to be changed." Most importantly, he emphasized the im­portance ofHPC's involvement "with issues that will help the kids in the dorm."· 
Martin expresses optimism for HPC in the coming years and advises future hall presidents "to hav~ a sense ofhumor" and to "not give up." In his view. "you can't give up... that's the worst... I would be very disappointed if the Notre Dame student government ever gave up." 
D adio has been a part ofthe Notre ftoame community since the turn ofthe century. In the early 1900's, 
ProfessorjeromeJ. Greene made 
history by tapping out wireless 
messages from Notre Dame to what 
was then called Saint Mary's 
Academy, a mile away. Student radio 
made its debut at Notre Dame in 
1935 when the Notre Dame Radio 
Club presented dramatic, musical 
and campus news shows over South 
Bend Station WSBT. However, 
World War II greatly hindered the 
club's existance-rendering it almost 
completely inactive. 
Since that time radio has ad­

vanced tremendously on the Notre 
Dame campus. In fact, on February 
9. WSND, AM-64, celebrated its 35th Anniversary ofproviding Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses with news, sports and album rock. The birth t and growth ofthe station. however, has not been an easy one. 
The first student broadcasts were made from Walsh Hall in 1947­from the room of the station's foun­der, Frank Cronan. Cronan, an electrical engineer from Waterbury, Connecticut, became the station's savior when he purchased a radio transmitter with the remaining cash in the Radio Club's treasury. He was able to convince the Administration ofthe station's worthiness, and they approved his proposal ofa more per­manant residence for the facility. 
Cronan and his newly recruited staffset up new studios in the band room ofWashington Hall. Their programming consisted ofan an­nouncer systematically going through a limited stack ofpopular and classical recordings. Not long af­ter unpacking, however, Cronan and Company were ordered to once again move their station to the press­box atop the Notre Dame stadium. 
As expected, this new arrange­ment did not last for long, and once again WND was forced to move their system. Some reliefwas attained when the administration helped out with a 5300 grant and a promise of permanant studios in the Notre Dame Fieldhouse. 
The new facility had wall-to-wall carpeting in studio A, which also served as a lobby, meeting room and r~ccpticn area. The.entire comple-x was lined with acoustical panelling to aid the broadcasting in a profes­sional sound, and an improved car­rier current system was installed in the murky steam tunnels under campus. Disc jockys in studio B, however, found that things were far from perfect. The WND studios were right next door to a favorite hangout of Bengal Bouters, wrestlers and gymnasts, whose bumps and tumbles caued many a record needle to leave its mark on the airing records. But to the rescue came WSBT radio station who donated an old broadcasting unit which was immediatelly installed as the new master control board. This decreased the possibility of the records skipping. 
In 1951, WND changed its transmission frequency from 630 kilocycles to 1230 kilocycles to get a position free from outside inter­ference. This allowed for clearer transmission ofthe program over the shaky wiring and battered transmitter. Since then it has changed to 640 kilocycles. 
Cronan's succesor as station manager, Hawley Hall, began build­ing a new control console and revamping the faltering transmitter -aided by chiefengineer Ted Byrne. Byrne is often referred to as "the man who built the station." His keen electronical mind allowed him to boost the station's efficiency ten­fold. 
Bill Ryan followed Hall as station manager. It was under Ryan that WND made some of its greatest changes. For example, WND became WNDU -and the facility planned to move once again. 
Ryan fought to have provisionsfor the new radio station included in the plans for the proposed liberal and fine arts building. His efforts were successful and on February 9, 1954, under the guidance of his successor, Tom Knott, Notre Dame student radio moved to its present location in the O'Shaughnessy building. 
Rev. Edmund P.joyce, C.S.C., Uni­versity executive Vice President dedicated the station in March of that year. A wealth of new equip­ment was installed, financed by a loan from the University (the loan was paid offfrom station earnings within two years!) 
In the spring of 1955, Pat McCar­t t an took over direction of the sta­tion. During his term, the facility was asked to relinquish its call letters in favor ofthe new commercial broadcasting during the following summer. WSND was chosen for the new tag -the last three letters standing for "ServicingNotre 
Dame." The commercial operation stressed two principle objectives: appealing and responsible program­ming, aimed primarily at a student audience; and intensive student training in the varied fields allied with radio. "And they are still our goals today," stated WSND public­relations director Lynn Forthaus. "Most ofthe stations around South 
Bend focus on the community. We, 
on the other hand, operate for the 
students. Our motto says it all: AM­
64...The Alternative." 
WSND 
The student-owned and operated radio station is currently perched high atop the tower of O'Shaughnessy Hall. The system cur­rently consists ofa new transmitter, eight miles oftelevision-type coaxial cable -buried underground across campus and hooked-up to individual amplifiers for each residence hall ­and more than two miles ofcable within the studio itself. It operates on a carrier-current transmission system. This differs from the systems used by professional stations which send their signals through the air through antennaes. 
The campus station feeds its signal through a system oflines in the steam tunnels into the power cur­rent ofeach hall. WSND can therefore only be heard in the general vicinity ofthe Notre Dame and St. Mary's campus -the latter which is served by a seperate transmitter and transmittance sys­tem. 
WSND-AM has come a long way since its bleak beginnings as a stu­dent project in Walsh Hall 35 years ago. Its record collection houses some two-three thousand albums and its staff has expanded to more than 45 members ( 160 students are jointly employed in seven different departments in both the FM and AM stations). 
Abiogenesis 
Wente leads dance workshops 
G
uest artists in residence have al­ways been an important part of any education in the arts. A guest art­
ist brings a new and a fresh 
Angela Adamson 
outlook to any community ofartists. This "new blood" is vital to creativity. In keeping with the belief that the artistic stimulation a guest 
artist provides is elemental to an art 
education, the Abiogenesis Dance 
Collective prepares to host its first 
guest: Suzanne Wente. Ms. Wente 
will be in residence with the col­
lective Feb. I I, 12, and 13. Her 
residency is cosponsored with the 
Notre Dame/Saint. Mary's 
cooperative Department ofCom­
munication and Theatre. On Sat., 
Feb. 13, the highlight of the 
residency will be an all day 
choreographic workship to be held 
in O'Laughlin Auditorium. A limited 
number ofspaces are open to the 
public. Persons interested in par­
ticipation should contact the 
Abiogenesis Dance Collective. 
Suzanne Wente comes to Notre Dame with many years ofex­perience in teaching dance. She founded and has directed the dance division ofNew Trier High School in Winnetka, Illinois for the past 23 years. Some of her students now dance on Broadway and in other major dance companies, including those ofAlwin Nikolais and Anna Sokolow. Her dance department has been declared the model depart­ment by the State ofIllinois and Ms. Wente serves as a consultant in program and curriculum develop­
ment. She is well known for her teaching in dance composition on 
the secondary level. Her New York 
training includes studies with 
Martha Graham and jose Limon. She 
recieved her degree from the Uni­
versity of Wisconsin-Madison. Cur­
rently she is developing a dance 
curriculum for handicapped stu­
dents. 
Ms. Wente's residency is another 
manifestation ofthe commitment 
Abiogenesis has to education in the 
art form ofdance. Other oppor­
tunities for Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's students to learn about dance 
include five weekly classes in 
various dance disciplines, and 
several dance concerts performed 
by the Abiogenesis troupe. All stu­
dents, faculty and staff are invited to 
participate in the Abiogenisis Dance 
Collective. 
·----------------~-------------------­
The Observer Features Section 
Wednesday~ February 1 0, 1982 -oage 7 
In Braun protest Theatre eyes Polish production and unconscionable act oftyranny,The declaration of martial law in theatre and literary figures. Special the Department ofTheatre hasPoland last Dec. 13 has touched recommendations for Braun's ap­decided not to continue its usual Saint Mary's college in a very direct pointment had been received from business. Rather, we wish to protestway. The Theatre Department had Czeslaw Milosz, the Nobel Prize and demonstrate our "solidarity" winner, Tichard Schechnt:r and Jer­with the people of Poland by defer­ry Rojo, world famous theatre direc­ThomasLeff ringour previously planned produc­tors, andJerzy Grotowski, who is tion ofa Shakespeare comedy considered the single most impor­contracted Professor Kazimiers (which Professor Braun was to haveBraun, a noted director and theorist tant figure in the development of directed) and dedicate our finalfrom the University of Wroclaw, to contemporary theatre performance main stagt· production to a programteach and direct during the spring, techniques. of relevant plays. films, and public19HZ semester. Since the declara­tion of martial law, no private Polish Professor Braun's range ofworkaddresses by prominent personscitizt·n has been permitted to com­extends from the classics to the con­directly cuncernt·d with themunicate, much less travel, beyond temporary and is highly experimen­betrayal of freedom in Poland. Thethe Polish border. tal. His writing on critical theory indetails ofour new program will be production has attracted con­forthcoming. Under serious con­Repeated efforts by the depart­siderable attention in Europeansideration arc the production of ment to contact Professor Braun theatre circles. Braun's work at Saint plays by Polish author, Slawomirhave been totally stymied. Fur­Mary's was to have included coursesMrozek, the screening of the films,thermore, the Polish Consulate in in Polish Theatre and Drama, ad­"Man of Marble" and" Man ofIron"Chicago deliberately misk-d the vanced acting techniques, and aby Abdrzcj Wajda (a renowned film seminar on Shakespeare in Produc­department into believing that maker, incarcerated in a Polish tion. The final production of the Professor Braun would be coming to prison) and two public addresses by season had been tentatively an­this nnmtry when in reality no Pole distinguishnl persons. The entire nounced as Love's Labor Lost. In is being allowed to travel abroad. program is to be presented in a con­Professor Braun's last communica­Mort·over. it is even more ap­centrated weekend ofevents open tion before the martial decree, he parent that intellectuals and artists to the public as well as to the expressed his eagerness and in Poland are bdng severely academic community. Suggestions pleasure for the opportunity to work restrkted and harrassed by the from any party for additional at Saint Mary's. "I am really very military regime. Significant free grateful to you for your invitation. work is impossible. Imprisonment, programming for the event arc All ofmy experience and knowledge censorship and denial of work are t.·agerly solicitt·d. The planned dates are at your disposal." In recognition now facts oflife for the Polish artist arc Apr. 23-ZS. of Professor Braun's detainment. the and intellectual. Professor Braun was highly department will dedicate the special In response to this unwarranted regarded as a host ofprominent "Solidarity" program in his honor.  'Chimes' literature rings familiar Belles Since 1892, Chimes, Saint Mary's student literary publication, has provided students with an opportunity to express their ideas and display their literary talents. As well, Chimes has traditionally enter­tained and informed the members ofthe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community with its various forms ofliterature and art. Now entering its 90th year, Chimes will publish its annual issue in April and is now accepting material from Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students. As it has for the past decade, the 19HZ Chimes will include a vignette of poems, stories, art work, and photographs illustrating the sundry talents of the students. Stylish and professional, the recent Chimes issues reflect the quality ofSaint Mary's literary tradition. Concurrently, however, they reflect the enormous change and innovation that has taken place at Saint Mary's over the past 123 years. The evolution ofChimes dates back to 18S9 and Saint ~! n .!l! w. Mary's earliest publication, Chris Fraser Rosa Mystica. According to A Panorama: 1844-1977, a his­tory ofSaint Mary's College by -------------­Sister Mary Immaculate Creek, C.S.C., "The first humble issues were pages ofruled notebook paper, stapled or bounu with string to make a small booklet; each page however, was filled on both sides with the best that the creative talents at Saint Mary's could produce." Rosa Mystica issues included essays, poems, stories, editorials, and a sort of newsletter about events at Saint Mary's. The writing in Rosa Mystica strictly reflected the values of the college and influenced the tone ofSaint Mary's publications for many years. Submissions had to comply with the explicit set ofgoals outlined in an early issue: "The Mystical Rose shall honor its heavenly name-sake by promoting the virtues which distinguished her on earth.... Hcnct·, every merely speculative article, or those that might cvt:n indirectly encourage the modern spirit offalst.· liberty, shall be carefully ex­cluded...." An early fan ofRosa Mystica was Father Sorin, who at­tended a monthly reading of the publication which became something ofa social event. Pubication ofRosa Mysttca ceased in lli8R and paved the way for the first issue ofChimes in 1892. It seems that Chimes may have ap­peared in some other form as early as 1874, but the first bound, printed issue was pubished in 1892. Originally, Chimes was a weekly literary magazine containing short stories, poems, essays, and editoriab. Again, the major objective ofChimes was to foster a strong moral atmosphere at Saint Mary's. Said an early issue: "The design ofthesepages is to promote the advancement ofall that is good and noble in the heart ofevery' pupil ofSaint Mary's.... " In the early I900s, Chimes remained basicaly a literary publica­tion, continuing to print essays, pHems, and stories. But as the major Saint Mary's publication, Chimes also chronicled news items and reviews. For this reason, Chimes has provided an interesting reflec­tion ofthe opinions and ideas of the times as well as demonstrating the progression and innovation ofliterary ability. Ornate and flowery prose and a consistently strong moral tone were the marks ofChimes early years Religious articles and romantic stories were popular in the I 920s and 1930s as the magazine began to allow a wider range ofidcas in its material. These were balanced with literary criticisms ofSophocles, Dante, and Shakespere, among others. The evolution ofChimes took a major step in the I940s as articles and short stories addressed na­tional affairs. At the same time, Chimes took a less serious look the commuinity by engaging in something ofa light-hearted banter with Notre Dame'sScholastic. The I 9SOs brought a new era and Chimes continu<:d to change. The world was viewed with a more enlightened perspective and the topics confronted were more controversial: women's indept·n­dence, essays on existentialism, and Christian feminism were all dis­cussed in Chimes. By the 1960s, the original weekly publication had decreased its dimensions and updated its format. The revolutionary mood of the times was revealed in the symbolic and somewhat daring poetry that expressed the decade's new ideas about politics, religion, and morality. The evolution was gradual but the contrast from the strict moral guidelines ofearly Chimes issues was like that of night and day. Today, with The Obsen,er recording the daily activities, Chimes has complete~)' abandoned itsjournalistic pursuits in far,or of strictly literary' and artistic material. The 1982 Chimes promises to continue the long tradition ofliterary excellence at Saint Mary's. Editors, Kathy Zurkowski, Ellen Gorman, art editor Maureen lllincy, faculty advisor Max Westler, and the staffofChimes are presently sif­ting through the piles ofsubmissions in preparation for a latt· April publication. According to Professor Wcstlcr. this year's Chimes will feature more prose than in recent issues as well as poems, art work, and photographs. The literary publications ofSaint Mary's have spanned 12~ years and many different forms. But overshadowing the vast ditlcrences between Coday's Cbimes and those tlrst hand-written issues ofRosa Mystica arc the achievements the publications have shared. Without fail, they have provided a literary outlet for promising authors while supplying the community with information, opinion, and entertain­ment. We look to Chimes I91-12 to continue this outstanding tradi­tion.  
Trivia Quiz XV make the top 20 during the rock era.Last week's quiz was one for the 6. "The Fool on the Hill" ­Sergio Not much ofa hint, but it doescloset Beatiemaniacs out there. Mendes and Brasil '66 eliminate an awful lot of records,In it 1 asked about Beatie remakes 7. "She Came In Through the Bathroom W'indow" -Joe Cocker including nearly every New Wave R. "Here Comes the Sun" -record ever made.Tim "vvly Richie Havens 9. "Oh! Darling" -Robin Gihbwhich made the charts. Here art· the I. egg to fryI 0. "Birthday" -Undergroundanswers. 2. Chairman MaoSun shin(' 1. "Michelle"-David and Jonat­3. Gatlinburg in mid-July han 4. winds ofNovember 2. "You've Got to Hide Your Love 5. colitasAn advance warning: my trivia Away" -The Silkie 6. vestal virgins , offering for the week is among my ~-"Lucy in the Sky with 7. Five-Year Plans and New Dealsmost difficult Why can I say that? Diamonds"-EltonJohn 8. he's all a-drunkBecause I am asking you to identify4. "Back in the U.S.S.R." -Chub­9. The New York Times' effect onhit songs by revealing only a few key hy Checker manwords contained within. A hint is <;_ "You Won't Sec Me" -Anne I 0. teenage diplomatthat all tht·"· ret:ords managed to ,\1urray ..,,,,...., ................... N.D. Student overnmen presents i''ENGINEERS' ' CAREER EXPLORATION DAY ~ WEEK"~ "···A unique opportunity to investigate Feb. 10 ~ organizations such as the Peace Corps and -Industry Fair ~ Holy Cross Associates •.•" ~Beam Contest ~ Speak with representatives and obtain literature and brochures from many service i-College Bow1 ~ organizations in the United States and Overseas. ~ -lstround~ ~ See ~ Wednesday, February 10,1982 10:30 AM-4 PM ~ postersfor details !Memorial Library Concourse ..__....................,,....,~  
Is your room one ofthe WACKY WORST on campus? Ifso, call Greg at 239-74 71 and tell him so.  

-

~~()f1S={=~=r==i=e~~~=S===========================w=e=d=ne=sd=a=y,=Fe=b~L=acy==t=o,=t=9s=z===pa=g=e=&
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
lntramunol Recquetbaoll 

The Notre Dame Wrestling Team returns The ND Billiard tournamenthasroomfor IO to the mats to face the Broncos ofWestern Michigan tonight at 7:00 more contestants, even though the tournament has already started. 
p.m. in the ACC Pit. The Irish stand at 9-2 and are coming off a mini­Those who have already signed up to play should check with their vacation after a fourth place finish in the National Catholic Tourna­opponents and arrange a match time. -The Observer ment two weekends ago. -The Observer 
The $95 balance for those interested in going on the 
Tickets for away Notre Dame basketball games against Student Union's Colorado ski trip is due Friday. The money can be 
Seton Hall and Michigan are available at the second floor ticket office 
brought to the Student Union Ticket Office. The final room list is 
in the ACC. The Seton Hall game will be held on tomorrow, February now posted outside the Student Union office. Those with questions 
I8 at the Meadowlands Arena in' East Rutherford, N.J. Tickets for the or problems can call Kevin at 239-7605. -The Observer 
Michigan game, to be held at the Silverdome in Pontiac, Mich., on Sunday, March 7, are priced at $4, S6 and $8. -The Observer 
The Fellowship of Christian Athletes will hold a meeting tonight in the Howard Hall social space at 9. All are invited. -The Observer 
In interhall hockey tomorrow night, St. Eds will The Student Union continues to sponsor ski trips to play Fisher at I 0: I 5. In the late game, Morrissey will face Dillon at Swiss Valley every Saturday night during the winter months. Busses II:30.-The Observer depart from the Main Circle at 5 p.m. and return at II p.m. Bus 
tickets can be purchased in advance from the Student Union for 
S2.50, or on the bus itself for 53.00. Also, discounted lift tickets and 
Cross-country ski rental is available weekends to 
ski rental are available -The Observer Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. For details, call 239-5I 00. ­
The Observer 

Men's Doubles Bartkowiak (1396)/Wilke (1596) v. Harman (1133)/MacDonnell (1029) Delaus (1516)/Wilczewski (234-8518) v. Pineda (8717)/Shank Thomassen (4627)/Kvochak (7096) v. Kahale (7838)/Jensen Jacop1n (8170)/Ciiford (8184) v. Lindholm ( 1768)/Fiitte Power (1654)/Rigali (8764) v. Donius (8191)/Chludinsky (3165) O'Brien (1248)/Hatfield (1171) v. Milia (8765)/Baroody (8767) Sherry (2129)/Gans v. Torchia ( 1857)/Hanmgan Pierce (1424)/Pfan (1432) v. Hannagan (8943)/Felentik Kinney (232-5357)/Kovas v. Farino (8179)/Mazzarella (289-6519) Wicke (1760)/Hagerty v. Catteine (1621)/0iiver (6801) Taylor (8978)/Dahl (8989) v. Raster (1818)/Hogan (1816) LaChance (8175)/Steiglmeier (8273) v-. Murr•y (1 058)/lsenbeis Keenehan (8255)/Poccobutt (8284) v. Sayre (8930)/Randazzo (232-1345) 
Hirl (1409)/Nagy v. Heinzman (3200)/Ansari Hearney (3713)/Fieeth (3177) v. Mueningoff (1031)/McBnde (1038) Creps (8579)/Meeker (8531) v. Daegele (8841)/Covin Calvach/Packo (1688) v. Wayne (8905)/Hannegan Muccio (1142)/Puzak (8810) v. McKelvey (8897)/Bozik 
Women's Doubles Kennedy (8135)/Jantz (6372) v. McCollister (3874)/Jymenez Cervenak (1363)/Miller v. Mullen (8143)/Smlth Gallagher /Gallagher ( 4312) v. Gorski (1262)/Schmid 
The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However. classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All class1fieds must be prepaid, either in person or through the mail. 
Classifieds 
FOUND: The Queen of Hearts. Want to JAZZ PIANO AT THE NAZZ, SATUR­
Need a nde to Houston. Spring Break. Anna, Carrie Luepke, give her desperately to DeMar. but not DAY9PM. You Pickle! 
Call1782, ask for Tim. A belated Happy Birthday wish! 
NOTICES 

sure if he w111 accept. DeMar--cali the 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... 1hope it was a good one. DesperadoI! BILL EVANS LIVES AT THE NAZZ.
WANTED: 2 GA FOR DE PAUL-NO ON Ryan's Winter Thought For The Day: 
2/27. CALL 272-8184 AFTER 5:30. Love, When it snows
SATURDAY9PM SHOW YOUR LADY YOU CARE WITH A LOST: Casio FX-8000 calculator some­
Andy and Mike It really blows. BOUQUET OF FLOWERS DELIVERED where in Eg. Aud or computer building or N~~d 2GA Ti~l<~i; ;~; NC. State!! Call TOMMY FLANAGAN LIVES. AT THE 
EVERY WEDNESDAY FOR 4 WEEKS. ICe nnk. I need it for my tests!! If found, NAZZ. 9PM SATURDAY. 
Ann 8067. 

WEDNESDAY'S FLOWERS. 289-1211. please call Dominic at X 1360. 
No more of this late night poo for me. I VALENTINES DAY IS CLOSE BY HOAGY CARMICHAEL LIVES AT THE 
Ron. 

ATTENTION: If anyone knows the ret~re to my burrow. Good luck Suzanne! 
Happy Birthday! 

I LOST MY 1.0. CARD SOMEWHERE NAZZ. SATURDAY, 9PM. 
whereabouts of one North Carolina State You poor rabbit.. 
The Space Academy Atten11on Allanta Club Members: There BETWEEN SOUTH DINING HALL AND GA ticket. please g1ve me a call. 
w1ll be a meeting Wed., 211 0, in the mini­WASHINGTON HALL IF YOU FOUND Now remember. Hedvig, don't touch that 
THANKS. MIKE -1812 Uncle Ryan theatre at LaFortune 8-9 p.m .. concernmg IT. PLEASE RETURN IT ASAP!!!!! pistol!!! One of the barrels is still loaded!!/ 
To Sizzle Lips and her Polar Room1e:a Spring Break Bus. Cost to be (MICHOLE MADDEN 329 LYONS x7951) U. R. Forewarned M/V-Day approaches! Fondly, determined at meeting ($65-$72 round THANKS!! 

NEED RIDE TO CLEVELAND THIS More champagne? 
Your Secret and Bashful admtrer trip). More 1nfo at meeting. Any questions 
WEEKEND. CALL RICH 232-1824. Hope your birthday was great, I can't wait call Pat at xt942 LOST: Pair of VUARNET sunglasses THE FINEST IN SOLO JAZZ PIANO. 
for the next one. 

-­ OVERSEAS JOBS--Summer/year round. Europe, S. Amer., Australia, As1a. All fields. $500-$1200 monthly. Sightsee­ing. Free info. Write IJC, Box 52-IN4, Corona Del Mar, CA 92625.  (you know, those ndiculous-look1ng shades). Please give Ken Kesey a quick call at 283-3210 if you have any informa­tion regarding them. REWARD definitely negotiable! Thanx. LOST: A LIGHT BLUE BINDER  FOR SALE  FROM MOSE ALLISON TO DENNY ZEITLIN. PAUL KOSIDOWSKI PLAYS THE FINEST. SATURDAY 9 PM. KEITH JARRETT IS ALIVE AND WELL AND PERFORMING IN SOUTH BEND. THE NAZZ, SATURDAY, 9 PM.  DADDY CHOP,ALIAS MIKE G. /WHO'S GOING TO WATCH OVER US THIS WEEKEND? CAN WE MAKE RESERVATIONS FOR THE THREE EX­TRA BEDS? HAGE, MYM. T AND MAP  CAD Thanks to all the women who helped make our first Soc Hop a success!!! ......... love. Stanford 2-EW  
TYPING: EX-LEGAL SECRETARY. 272­5337. Support your local neighborhood J. V. hockey player. Practice at 7:15 a.m. every morning. All players should attend. JELLY ROLL LIVES, SATURDAY, NAZZ,9PM. DID YOU CALL THE AIRLINES FOR YOUR SPRING BREAK RESERVA­TIONS? PICK UP YOUR TICKET AT 1ST SOURCE TRAVEL. SAINT MARY'S-­5606 ND--7080 Want to learn French? French tutor available, all levels. Very reasonable. Call 287-0233.  CONTAINING A LIGHT GREEN 5­SUBJECT NOTEBOOK -THESE ARE ALL THE NOTES I HAVE FOR THE SEMESTER, AND I REALLY NEED THEM, SO IF YOU FIND THEM, PLEASE CALL JOE ATx1584. REWARD. LOST: last Thursday, brown tinted. gold­framed eye glasses. If found please call x7946. FOUND: one hat. very nice, at the Holy Cross heinous hat and tie party on Satur~ day night. Call3176 to IDENTIFY FOR RENT  LOFT, Good Condition, Ideal 1n Keen/Stan. ONLY $95,Call272-2578 TICKETS WANTED: 2 TO 4 GA TICKETS FOR DE PAUL GAME. CALL KAREN, 284-5127. I NEED 2 DE PAUL GA'S. CALL DAVE AT3056. NEED2-4N.C. STATE G.A.·s. Call Jim at 1388. HELP! N 0 Student needs 7 N C STATE  TO ANYONE CONCERNED: JOE MUSUMMECI IS GIVING UP CIGARETTES!!!!! ANYONE CATCHING HIM BREAKING THIS RESOLUTION IS TO SNATCH THE OFFENDING WEED FROM HIM AND DASH IT ON THE GROUND. I KNOW I CAN COUNT ON MY FRIENDS TO HELP ME THROUGH THIS TIME OF CRISIS THANK YOU THE WSND BIRTHDAY BONANZA BEGINS!!! Listen to AM 64's SECRET SCRAMBLE SONG--Identify the artists and titles, and YOU could w1n $100 in your choice of albums!  PETE, THANX FOR A FUN TIME. YOU GUYS PUT ON A SUPER SEMI­FORMAL. KATHY SCOTT, TIM. AND MARIE SKIING WHEN ITS 8 BELOW ZERO-­BARRA! I MUST BE CRAZY CAUSE I HAD A RIOT TOO. THANX FOR A FUN NIGHT! THE SMC DRIVER MINUS THE MONOGRAMS AND DUCK SHOES. KELLE AND MA' RUTH THAN X FOR T AKIN CARE OF ME"!! YOUR PLASTERED ROOMIE  helloColleenl .....:*t't{!.. If 1t's wild and crazy times you animals out there want, try Flo and Marcia's, of 425 LeMans. Those two w1ld and crazy SMC'ers will do anything not specifically prohibited by Dulac. Give them a ring at 41-4958 and see 1f you can handle some senous party1ng and good times ! TROUT I LOVE YOU BUBBA What I missed, I should have kissed. Meet you in an embrace--Fnday at 8. (Don't be late) Rich Jackson  
NEED A GOOD HAIRCUT? CALL MICHOLE AT 7951 $4 GUYS AND $6 GIRLS NEED RIDE TO CHICAGO THIS WEEKEND. CAN LEAVE ANYTIME THURS OR FRIDAY. PLEASE HELP. ROSE3750. ATTENTION ST. LOUIS CLUB: ELECTION OF OFFICERS will take place at the beginning of March. Definitely  Summer Sublettors Wanted! 2 bdrm apt. in Hickory Village. If inter­ested, call Carol or Michele at 272-9603. Male -will share 3 bedrm. home in nice neighborhood 150 per month. ph. 289­1908 or 272-41 09 WANTED  tix for visrting friends please call1730. NEED ONE G.A TICKET FOR NORTH CAROLINA STATE. CALL MIKE 1812. WANT to BUY: 4 GA NORTH CAROLINA STATE tix X8227 NEED 2 GA'S FOR N.C. PRICE NO PROBLEM. X1040. Help!! If I don't come up with 2 DePaul GA's for my folks, I can kiss the tuition  WSND-AM 54--celebrating 35 years of serv1ng the Notre Dame community with the bes11n news, sports and rock music. FREE UNIVERSITY MODERN DANCE. CHOREOGRAPHY. AND JAZZ CLASSES begin tonight. Holy Cross( NO) Pool Room Bruece Konstant. comedian extraor~ dinaire, w1ll be performing this Thursday, Feb. It, at The Gipper Lounge. Holiday Inn. The show beg~ns at It p.m. Don't  WILLIAM RANDOLPH HEARST PUBLICLY THANKS EMILY HARRIS, THE S.LA AND OTHER TERRORIST GROUPS FOR THE CAREFUL TREAT­MENT OF HIS DAUGHTER, PATRICIA, DURING HER ABDUCTION FROM A PARTY, SUBSEQUENT CAPTIVITY (ON 2ND FLOOR CAVANAUGH. FEB. 5) AND HER EVENTUAL RELEASE TO THE PROTECTION OF HER BODY GUARD STEVEN WEED.(TALL, BLOND WITH THE MUSTACHE.) PATTY HER­SELF ADDS: THANKS GUYS!  FOR A---, (AGAIN) THOUGH I'VE TRIED NOT TO SMELl HER, AND IGNORE THE FEELINGS I GET IN MY NOSE: I CAN'T HELP BUT NOTICE HER. WITH HER FAT ROLLING DOWN TC HER TOES: EVERY LITTLE THING SHE DOES I! TRAGIC EVERY LITTLE THING SHE DOE JUST TURNS ME OFF COULDN'T MAKE HER DISAPPEA  
consider running-the club needs your talents!!! More details will come later.  WANTED: 1 housemate for 6 bedroom  ~hecks goodbye! Call Bob at 164 7 and keep me in school.  miss it. Keyboard player is desperately needed  DICK MIKE DOUG KATHY KIM. /HAPPY V-DAY. I LOVE YOU.  DOUG  WITH MAGIC EVERYTIME I THINK OF HER I WAN TO COUGH  
house. 717 St. Louis Ave. Call232-3237.  Need TWO DePaul GA Tickets Please  for a serious party band. Must be serious  GET WELL SOON! I SURE HOPE THAT  
Call TIM at 1377  and  somewhat  experienced  call  Dan  SHOULDER IS BACK IN SHAPE SOON.  DO I HAVE TO TELL THE STORY  
I. LOST/FOUND \  Need ride to Houston Texas, for spring break. If you are headed in that direction  I  NEED  TWO  TICKETS  FOR  THE  8694 or Ralph 6871.  LYNNE  OF A THOUSAND RAINY DAYS SINCI WE FIRST MET  
please call Timo at 1782.  DEPAUL  GAME!!I  WILL  PAY  BIG  Hey Deanna-Happy 18 and a haiti Have  I USE A PARACHUTE AS AN UMBREL  
BUCKS. CALL MATT AT 232-2578.  a great weekend!  Karen,  LA  
LOST--Red Prayer Book Christian Prayer-Liturgy of the Hours" In Sacred  WANTED: 4 GA tickets to the DePaul  Need riders to MSU (East Lansing area)  I HAPPY 21st! BIRTHDAY!! You finally made rt--now you're legal. No more  BUT WHEN I'M WITH HER I ALWAY! END UP GETTING WET  
Heart, Sat Nile t/30. If found Please call  WANTED:  JAZZ  PIANO  AF­ game ... Call Sandy at 272-4683  Leaving Friday (2112) at 3 Returning Sun­ sneaking  into  Senior  Bar!!!  Too  bad!!  
Al.t384.  ..........  FICIONADOS. THE NAZZ, SATURDAY, 9PM.  Hey, like I only need like 1 DePaul Stu­ day about same time. Call Monica 41­5802  Have a great day!!!  Love,  BABE  
LOST: A PAIR OF BLUE  MIRRORED  dent ticket, so like could you give Jim a  DD,Specs,Mup.Brenda,Pam  Are you still temporarily out of control?  
NEW WAVE SUNGLASSES IN NORTH  NEED  A  RIDE  TO  DAYTON  for  the  nng at x3313? Beauty, eh?  TO THE MONT ANNA MAN  
DINING HALL CONTACT JASON 8659 LOST: 3 KEYS ON GREEN PLASTIC KEYCHAIN. CALL RON 8270. LOST: GOLD & PEARL FLOWER  weekend of Feb. 12-14 Please call Mary Ann x5475 (SMC). I NEED RIDE TO PURDUE WEEKEND OF 2112-14. CAN GO ONE OR BOTH WAYS. CALL MARK8317.  I PERSONALS  I  SHEEP IN THE STUDY LOUNGE SHEEP IN THE SHOWER THE AUG BURNS ARE WORTH IT ANY DAY. ANY HOUR BAA BAA (THAT'S SHEEP TALK FOR AWESOME!)  MORRISON SCHWARTZER IS COM­ING SUMMER PROGRAMS: Ireland, Scot­land, London and Paris--May 18-June  Wacky  Wild  wwww Women of Week'  Walsh  Spir'  
CHARM FROM A NECKLACE. Lost be­ 17 Paris, Germany, Switzerland and  
tween  Farley  and  the  Law  School.  If  WE need 1 0 people who want to make  Rome-June  15-July  14. Courses  DotheOREO!  
lound,  please  call  Phyllis--6844.  $1,000 extra income part-time. Onenta­ TIX FOR DEPAUL BKB GAME NEEDED  DEAR CHRIS Sorry th1s is a day late. but  available  In  history,  business  and  
REWARD.  tion will be at Park Jefferson French Quar­ CALL DON AT 272-5438  better late than later, nght? I JUSt wanted  economics,  sociology,  theatre,  
LOST 1 PR. XL DARK BLUE SKI GLOVES IN EG. AUD. MONDAY NIGHT  ter on Feb. 11th at 7:00PM. For directions please call between 3:00 and 5:00 on Wed.. Feb lOth. 232-6587 or 256-5741.  LOVE MEANS NEVER HAVING TO SAY YOU BLEW IT Order your Valentine's  !o get 1n touch wtth your pleasure center. What do you say we do up a couple? See you Fri. T1mo  philosophy and Hallan. Call Professor A.R. Black st SMC, 284-4948 or at home, 272-3726.  Do the GARBAGE CAN!  
PLEASE CALL SEAN 1416  TYPING 28 yea·rs as a secretary. Excel­ Day Balloons. we·n deliver a bunch, 2 red and 1 white, to your fnends, lovers, and  ATTENTION SENIORS. On1y three more  Ask Oreo Power the Third and THE CAPTAIN . SULLY whal those last two  
LOST: Ti-55 calculator. either In 124 Cus­~ing auditonum or 117 Haggar auditonum on Feb. 5. If found please contact Dan at 3378.  lent typist--retired. $1.00 per page. Call Phyllis 259-2501. RIDERS NEEDED TO MARDI GRAS IN NEW ORLEANS. Call Harpo 8928.  ·enemies on campus. Sat. Feb. 13th Ooly $1.25! Order the'111n all d1mng halts Tues Feb. 9th through Fn. Feb 12th or 1n LeMans Lobby HURRY. BEFORE THEY'RE GONE!!  days to assoc1ate w1th us' Holy Cross Assoc1ates-­Inquire at Volunteer Serv1ces DEADLINE-Fnday. February 12  Dear Ju.Ju.(allas O.CWonder), I Thanks for the mall I can·t wa1t unt1l this weekend. Could your V.D. surpnse have anything to do With our prev1ous bet?  mean! /A-O.K too!  SUE FRIEDMAN, Happy Valentines Day to  you  

Sharon D1nocola Good luc~ '"LA' Party
LOST: one off-white ladies hat, on Jan. 31 Love.
Mart1n dnd G1useppe of 126 Keenan
$$ NEED $$ FOR SPRING BREAK? lots but don t forget your barbed w~re for
at Farley Mass. If found please contact CAREER EXPLORATIONS DAY Wed. Beth
would like to thank The Observer-for the 
SIGN UP '"0 WORK JUNIOR PARENTS
Kelli at 283-6739 Feb. 10 1n Lib Concourse 9·00-3 00 Talk th~ fencmg matches. 
tremendous help tn decoratu"~g their room
WEEKE~:.)-FEB 20TH AND/OR FEB w1th Reps from Holy Cross AS5soc .. JVC. 1 We Love You. The Steptord W1ves 
_last Saturday mte. l mean. would you ltke
LOST: Ladies gold watch, Fnday a~er-21ST. NEED FIRM COMMITMENT-Mananist, BE'tterway and r;thefs CRAIG HALE. 
to see the BIGGEST newspaper collec­
noon. lnscnption on back ol wat '· if CALL 277-7654 (COLLEEN) OR 283-Heres another one for your pockett 
tion of all lime? c•ll x3230 for details 

found, please contact DENISE r 283-3.('64 (MICHELE) FOR FURTHER The first p;·,aroah s adv1sor was otthe low
• 1.,;6;,;7,;;3;;,9;.,.-------------D•E•T•A•IL•S---------~-·~~ -~~~~--~-~~·~-~-~-~~~..... ~~·~ ·''~~-~.,.....~-,,,-~~-.,...---------------' 
The Observer-Sports Wednesday, February 10, 1982-page 9 
, Newstreak 
Dom.er Worn.en starting over 
By MARK HANNUKSELA 
Sports Writer 
It's back-to-basics time for Notre 
Dame's women's basketball team. 
After watching their I0-gamc win· 
ning streak go down the drain 
following a four-point loss to Miami 
(Ohio) Saturday. the: Irish will take 
their first step toward starting a new 
one tonight when Taylor University 
comes to the ACC. 
Tipoff is set for 7:30p.m. 
"We have to get back in the 
playing-to-win groove," says Irish 
Coach Mary DiStanislao. "We have 
to get back in the stride we hit in 
mid-January. To do that, we have to 
go back to fundamentals." 
Those fundementals, combined 
with the nation's leading scoring 
defense, have helped Notre Dame 
win 14 ofits 18 games thus far. 
Game No. 19 tonight will come 
against a6-8 Taylor team that is com· 
ing off an 82-61 loss to Butler Uni· 
versity Monday. 
Back in December, Butler handed Notre Dame the second of its four 
Wales defeats Campbell, 
4-2 
LANDOVER, Md. ( AP) -Mike Bossy. the scoring machine of the Stanky Cup champion New York Is· lander~. pumped in two goals Tues­day night to propel the Prince of Wales Conference to a 4·2 victory over the Clarence Campbell Con­
ft·rencc  in  the  National  Hockey  
League All-Star game.  
Bossy,  who  has  twice  led  the  

lt:ague in goal~ and has been an all· star in all fin· of his seasons with tht· Islanders, broke a 2-2 tic by poking homt· the rebound of a shot by dcfenseman Barry Beck of the New York Rangers with 2:50 remaining in the second period. 
lie then clinched the game -and Most Valuable Player honors for himself -by beating goalie Gilles 
Meloche of Minnesota on a breakaway I: 19 into the final period. Defenseman Larry Robinson of Montreal, standing at the side of his own net, hit the breaking Bossy be· hind the Campbell defense. Bossy skated in unmolested, made a shoul· der fake on Meloche and put a short wrist shot past the goalit"s glove. 
They were Bossy's first two goals in all-star competition. 
The Campbells jumped to a 1·0 lead 2:32 into the game before a sell· out crowd of 18, 130 at the Capital Centre. 
...Itetns 
continuedfrom page 12 
TEN-YEAR TOPPERS -Prior to the 1981-82 baskl'lball season, Notrt· Dame's record over the past decade stood I7th among major col· Iegt·s. The Irish compiled a 206-84 (.710) record from the 1971-72 season to the 1980-81 campaign, Digger Phelps' first decade as Irish head coach. 
As expected, UCLA topped the Top Ten Year list with a 258-41 (.863) record and Marquette was second at 236-56 (.808). Louisville ( 240-64, .789 ), North Carolina (245-66..788) and Syracuse (230· 66, .777) round out the top five. followed by Indiana ( 231-68, .773), San Frandsco (223·6(>, .772), and 
Kentucky ( 226-7 3 ..756). 
Other 1981-82 Irish foes in tht· top twenty include number I 0 ,\1aryland (217-77, .738), number II lkPaul( 198-75, .725)and 14th· plat·e North Carolina Stafc ( 206-80, .7.20 ). 
losses, 67-58, on the Lady Bulldogs' floor. 
Taylor Coach Sue Herbster, in her second year as coach of the Trojanes, will probably start a pair of 
freshman, one of whom is Taylor's leading scorer, against Notre Dame. 
Forward Jill Winkler, a 20 ppg. scorer. and guard Susan Chernenko ( 11 ppg.) arc Herbster's tirst-year players. 
junior Cindy Harper, a 5-4 guard, joins the pair in double figures. She averages 12.5 points per game. 
Senior center Brenda Hillman, at 5·1 0 the Trojanes' tallest player, is the leading rebounder, averaging seven points per game. 
Classmate Nancy Gerent is right behind at six rebounds per game. 
"The majority of their scoring comes from their big people," says DiStanislao, "so our forwards and centers will have to work hard defensively to counteract that." 
"Since we're much shorter than Notre Dame, we'll have to make up for it by playing aggressively on the boards," says Herbster, who directed the Trojanes to a 14-10 mark in her first season at Taylor. "Fundamentally, that means we'll have to block out. 
"We also anticipate that they'll have a stronger bench than we do," she adds, "so defensively, we'll have to exert enough pressure to hold down their offense." 
That offense is currently averag· 
ing nearly 65 points per game, large-
Iy on the strength of a quintet of 
players who have each scored more 
than I50 points already. 
Freshman Carrie Bates continues 
to lead the Irish in scoring, despite 
the fact that she has started only 
three games. 
The Kansas City, Mo., native is averaging just over 12 points per game, and 7.1 rebounds per contest. 
Mary Beth Schueth, at I 1.6, and Ruth Kaiser, at I 0.6, arc the other Irish players averaging double figures in scoring. 
Both arc freshmen. 
Schueth is the leading reboundcr for Notre Dame, having hauled down 169 caroms, an average of slightly more than nine per game. 
The Irish and Trojanes have met only once previously, that being last season, when Taylor gave DiStanis· lao's first club fits before finally bowing 77-71. 
IRISH ITEMS -A year ago at this time, Notre Dame sported a 9·9 mark, and was on the verge of embarking on a seven-game losing streak ... This season, the Irish have yet to lose as many as two con­seutive ·games ...Sporting a six­game winning streak at the ACC, DiStanislao's crew will try to break another record tonight. A win will set a new school mark for most con­seutive wins at home . . . Overall, Notre Dame is 7-1 in the ACC, the only loss being a five-point setback to then eighth-ranked UCLA back on December 5. 
VOCATION RETREAT 
~[UJ[Ri[p(Q)~~ to help you consider the priesthood in the 
Congregation of Holy Cross 
[Q)~lf~ Friday. February 26 to Saturda}( February 27 7:00p.m. 12:00p.m. 
[p)[L~~Moreau Serninary 

r 

ARMY ROTC SCHOLARSHIPS 
• 2YR SCHOLARSHIPS •3 YR SCHOLARSHIPS SCHOLARSHIPS COVER TUITION, BOOKS AND FEES $100 PER MONTH WHILE ENROLLED APPLICATION DEADLINE: I MARCH 1982 FOR MORE DETAILS CALL: 
MAJOR.BOB MciLHARGIE 239-6264/6.265 
• 

After your lastexam, what toughquestions will you stillbe facing? 

W don't have your answers. But we'll listen to your questions, 
share some of our own about who we want to become and where we want to journey. For anyone who has considered the path of priesthood, the Holy Cross Fathers' One· Year Candidate Program provides an opportunity to ask and explore the possibilities in community. 

Cont~ct. 

Rev. Andre Leveille, C.S.C. Vocation Director Box !:>41 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
(219) 239-6385 
• • 0 • ..._ 

________.] 
The Observer -Sports Wednesday, February 10, 1982 -page 10 
Women's hoops 

_..... 
'Varsity
WHERE THE NEED IS... 
THERE WE WILL BE. 
By DONNA WITZLEBEN 
Sports Writer 

As individuals and as a 
Those who have attended a
community, we will work 
women's basketball game this season carry with them a vivid memory. A memory of four ram­
toward alleviation of hunger, 
lack of knowledge, and injustice. 
bunctious Domers redefining the word fan. Those who haven't at­tended a game are not only missing great basketball, but the rowdy and 
crazy group of Domers called the Varsity Crowd as well. 
Roughly organized three years ago, the Varsity Crowd has grown in­to a highly organized yet spon­
·· BROTHERS OF HOLY CROSS 
Br. David Baltrinic, CSC 
taneous group. This year's members 



Vocation Director 103 Columbia Hall Notre Dame, Ind. 
Phone: 239-7830 
include Mary Kay Beckman, Paul Pisarski, Fisher Reynolds and Lee Williams. The original Varsity Crowd consisted of five men from
46556 

Dillon who went to the games be­cause of friendships with Sheila Liebscher and Maggie Lally, last year's captain. The original group of 
Bob Fink, Pat Moskal, Paul Rondino, 

Crowd'invades arena 
Mike Ward and Joe Wieck went to the games to shout and heckle op­ponents. The Varsity Crowd sign, painted on an old sheet, takes its name from a similar group from Wieck's high school. 
At the end oftheir junioryear they .presented the seniors with roses. Toward the end of the following season they merged with Beckman, 
Pisarski and Reynolds who were at the games as Missy Conboy fans. Paul Pisarski brought his accordion and was told by a disgruntled fan that his playing was like that of a cheap Italian restaurant, thus giving birth to one ofthis year's themes for a game. A "Polish" and an "Italian" night were held, but the first official thenie was "Beach Day" held on January 31 at the South Carolina game. With swimsuits and bright Hawaiian shirts, frisbees and taped Beach Boys music, the Varsity Crowd surprised and entertained the handful ofspectators. 
As the Crowd contributed to last year's season, Astrid Hotvedt, the Coordinator of Women's Athletics, took a kindled interest in the group. She helped them to organize some special events, such as a very suc­cessful dance contest held at half time of the last home game and the pesentation ofroses to the seniors at halftime ofa men's basketball game. The Varsity Crowd really ap­preciates Hotvedt's help and she admires them as well. She termed it "mutual admiration." 
As the originals graduated, this years Crowd developed and refined "Varsity Crowding" to an art. "Spontaneity is the key," Beckman stresses. With their amplifier, ryt­hym box, sign, Varsity Crowd towel (a gift from Hotvedt) and whatever costumes are deemed appropriate, they are set for the game. 
Not only does the Crowd support the team, but they generate fan par­ticipation and mercilessly harass op­ponents. They may very well be the best hecklers in all of women's col­legiate basketball. One Varsity Crowd way to prevent an opponent from making a free throw is to yell the names of cereals as she shoots. So far "Shredded Wheat" has yielded the best results. 
During the closing minutes of a particularly tight Ball State game a little extra effort was necessary. As the Ball State player prepared to shoot her critical one-and-one, Pisarski and Reynolds sprinted into the empty seats behind the basket waving and screaming madly;she missed and the team went on to an­other victory. 
During time outs music is blared, the Crowd leads cheers, and they even try their hands at three-person pyramids. They do "1812" , though it is tough to rock the bleachers with only four people. The Crowd's dream is to lead the "1-R-1-S-H" cheer with a slightly larger and louder group. This year's themes have been 

ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS FEBRUARY 24 In Los Angeles, your_greatescape~oulQtake placetn mtnutes. . ~r..,~~ Low Desert-45 min. Skiing-70 min. Hollywood Bowl-45 min. Griffith Park-45 min. High Desert-98 min. Better skiing-180 If! in. Universities-30 min. Beverly Hills-38.5 min. Beaches-10 min. Sailing-15 min. Surfing-10 min. Hollywood-40 min. Forest-25 min. Golf-17 min. Knott's Berry Farm-45 min. Ti1uana-240 min. Mountains-30 min. Running-(change your shoes) Rollerskating-(change your. San Diego Zoo-180 min. Big mountains-40 min. Cricket-23 min. shoes again) Sunshine-7 seconds Very big mountains-240 min. Disneyland-45 min. •Universal Studios-50 min. Tennis-10 min. Imagine a climate jl1d location that lets. you ELECTRICALJELECTRONICenjoy it all--the ar ;, education and the great outdoors. Every da .·All year round. MECHANICAL Located in Southe~1 California. Northrop Air­Contact the Placement Office to schedule ancraft offers professional opportunities. plus appointment with a Northrop representative.the flexibility of lifestyle that lets you make If you can not meet with us at this time. pleasethe most of hours off the job. forward your resume to: If you would like to design this century's most advanced aircraft in a location with easy College Relations access to beach. desert, and mountains, Dept. 1221/80 TS/UNDconsider Northrop. ·· 2815 El Segundo Blvd. Make the great escape that could last a life Hawthorne, CA 90250 time .. Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/H U.S. Citizenship Required Northrop offers company-paid medical and dental insurance: 12 paid. vacation days annually; a week long Christmas holiday: Aircraft Division tuition reimbursement and a company-con­tributed savings/investment plan. NORTHROPWe are interested in graduates (BS and MS levels) in the following fields: Making advanced technology work TECHNICAL ENGINEERING AERONAUTICAL  

AIR FARE SPECIALS 
From Chicago To:  
Tampa or W. Palm Beach  From-$ 79.00 o.w.  
Miami-Ft. Lauderdale  
Orlando  From­ 99.00 o.w.  
San Francisco  From­ 109.00 o.w.  
Los Angeles  From­ 99.00 o.w.  
San Diego  From­ 1-19.00 o.w.  
Long Beach  From­ 129.00 o.w.  
Kansas City  From­ 59.00 o.w.  
Wichita  ;­ From·  79.00 o.w.  
New York  From­ 159.00 R.T.  
Boston  From·  188.00 R.T.  
St: L.ouis  From­ 59.00 o.w.  
Minneapolis  From­ 89.00 o.w.  

Fares are subject to availability, time and day of travel. Air fares are subj~ct to change at any time. Ticket purchase guarantees fare. 
AMTRAK SPECIALS 
Effective now thru April 1, '1982: Purchase a one way fare of $45.00 or more, get the return for only $10.00. Children Y2 of adult fare. 

The Best TRAVEL SPECIALS Are Available on Campus! 
VACATION SPECIALS 
Bahamas 
Nassau-1 week 
Freeport-1 week 
Caribbean 
Jamaica-St. Maarten-Aruba-St. Kitts-Santo Domingo 
Mexico 
Acapulco-Cancun-Cozumel­Mazatlan-Puerto Vallarta 
From -$499.00 per person 
double occupancy From -$387.00 per person double occupancy 
From -$429.00 per person double occupancy 
From -$459.00 per person double occupancy 

Includes: Round trip air fare from Chicago-hotel accommo­dations and airport transfers. 
~source

ST. MARY'S NOTRE DAME 
•Travel
284-5606 239-7080 "Beach Day" for UCLA, "Christmas Day" with a Santa Claus, "Texas Day" with a lasso that Reynolds actually twirled, "Polish Night" and "Restaurante Italiano Cheepo Night" complete with dining hall aprons and "mustachios." The music ranges from "California Girls" to the "Too Fat" polka, and it is taken from Pisarski's varied record collection. 
The themes are conceived prior to game time, but are not revealed bfore tip-off. "We like to surpise people with our themes," explained Beckman, a Cincinnatti native. Rumor has it that on tap for future games include a "Classicals" and a "Musicals" theme night. One theme day which the Varsity Crowd wants to stress is the second annual dance contest, to be held at halftime of the Michigan State game on March 6th. 
A close knit group of friends, the Crowd does all of this because they enjoy it. "We do it for fun, and people expect us to act crazy and odd, so we do," states Pisarski, who hails from Connecticut. But there is also a therapeutic side, as Reynolds candidly admits. "We can get hyper about the games and really let loose." Dan Ribicki of Psychological Services concurs. "Letting go and getting involved in a game can do a whole lot of good. After studying it gives you a chance to blow offsome steam:· 
But the main reason the Varsity Crowd goes to all the games and trouble is because they genuinely love Irish women's basketball. "The team is so great," Beckman stresses, "we think they deserve better sup­port from the fans." Reynolds, a Houston native adds, "We like to think that we are doing something for the team." 
Although the members of the Crowd are personally unknown to most ofthe women on the basketball team, captain Missy Conboy spoke for all the squad when she said, "I think they're great. They don't realize it, but they are appreciated and they really do help." And in per­haps the undestatment of the year, Conboy added, "It's hard not to notice them." 
Coach Mary DiStanislao has no­thing but praise for the group, whom she met only a few weeks ago. "They're great, I love them," she gushed, "They do for us what it takes 5,000 to do at a men's game." DiS­tanislao is so taken with the Varsity Crowd that she even uses them in recruiting. "It's the whole family idea," she explained, "we are a fami­ly just taking off the ground and they're part ofthat family. Ifwe go to the NCAA tournament they are going with us." And with a 14-4 record that prospect looks all the more promising. 
Everyone enjoys the antics of the Varsity Crowd and they make a big difference in the south dome of the ACC. But if things go as they are now, the four seats, which are rarely filled, behind the scorers'· table will be empty next season; all four Crow­ders are seniors. Hotvedt hopes that they will recruit some new and uninhibited talent that will be willing to act a little crazy. But in view of the dim recuit­ing possibilities, Reynolds sees the group's job as finished, "We are sad to see it go, but the team has already 
taken off." The Crowd would like to have a plaque made for the women's basketball display case at the ACC to commemorate their contribution and earnest dedication to Irish women's basketball. 
Whatever happens, all the mem­bers of the Varsity Crowd, past and present, have made some great memories for themselves, the team and the fans in these early, critically formative years of women's basket­ball here at Notre Dame. And all o them can and will look back wit 
pride and say, "I was there and I w 
a part of it when it was just begin 
ning." 
The next women's home game i 
tonight at 7:30 versus Taylor. 


Ihe~====================================== 
T0 d~xilf:.==============w=e=d=n=e=s=d=ay='=F=e=b=ru=a=ry=I=o='=I=9=8=2==p=a=g=e=I=I 
Molarity 
Michael Molinelli 

511?, {;f) >W !?£AUY 

Simon 

TH/5 CW& /?IJN AiOI& lUlU PfJT t/5/N FAT CITY. 200 f11558¥JC/(5 
Y&S, SP005 FllN5, 
THISISTH& A NIC£ Pfu:& CF DII/N6t.' 7HI5 
AT$2,000 P£!1?. 800Y CLm$ 70 
8/GON/3!

IS 711& 816 SC/Jile tut'f'e 8CEN 



The Daily Crossword 
10 Darn It! tary post: 14 German sub abbr. =--r.-:--1r=-"'T<......., 15 Hawaiian 31 Coffee island grind 16 Angullll· 35 "In" thing form 36 Spiteful 17 Stop 37 ld's re· talking straint 20 WWII arena 38 Scrutinized 
--+--1---+-+--+----l 21 Copper 40 Gothic arch 22 Mourn 41 Appraises 23 Did a fall 43 Chair 
chore designer 25 Scholars' 45 The "100 goals Club" -.;-+--+---i 26 Holy 46 Postponed
Tuesday's Solution 
©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 2110/82 All Rights Reserved 
Campus 
•I0:30 
am.-4 p.m.-Career Exploradon Day, Memorial library Concourse, Spomoored by Stu­dent Government 

•II: 
I 5 a.m., 3:30 p.m. -First Class, SCRIPT Kockoff, M-II5 Computing Center/Math Building 

•I
:30 p.m. -Lecture, Former United Nations Ambassador, Donald McHenry, Memorial library lounge, Sponsored by Student Government 

•2 
· 5 p.m. -Tax Program, N.D. Tax Assistance Program, LaFortune Student Center, through April 15 

•4 
p.m. -Lecture, "Reaganomics In The Third World: Business Growth vs. Cultural Develop­ment", Professor Denis Goulet, Holder of O'Neil Chair for Socialjustice, I0 I Law School, Sponsored by St. Thomas More Law Colloquium 

•4:20 
p.m. -Colloquium, "Weak Decays of Heavy Quarks", Dr. Gregory Donaldson, Stanford University, 118 Nieuwland Science Hall, Spon~ored by Departmc:_n~~f Physics 

•4:30 
p.m. Seminar, "Antiulcer and Cytoprotective Activity of Postaglandin", Dr. Andre Robert, Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo, Ml, 278 Galvin Life Science Center, Sponsored by Department of Microbiology 

•7 
p.m. -Musical, "And You Thought All We Could Do Is Dance", Black liberated Art Center Dance Group, Oklahoma City, Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art, Sponsored by Black Cultural Arts Festival, Free admission 

•7 
p.m. -Wrestling, Notre Dame vs. Michigan, ACC 

•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Women and Work in Ap· palacia/Saint Mary's Women in Work", Ms. Marie Cirillo, Office for Rural American Women, Carroll Hall, Sponsored by Christian and Justice Lecture Series 

•7:30 
p.m. -Basketball, Notre Damt· Women vs. Taylor, ACC, Free admission 

•8 
p.m.-Lecture, "Asymmetry ofthe Sexes", Dr. 

E. 
Micheal jones, Editor of Fidelity, l I 7 


O'Shaugnessy Hall, Sponsored by 11tomas More Society 
•8 
p.m. -Free University,Jazz Class, Holy Cross Pool Room, Notre Dame 

•9 
p.m. -Meeting, Fellowship of Christian Ath· lctes, Howard Hall Social Space, All arc invited 

•11 
p.m.-WSND Album Hour, "Mondo Rock Chemistry", Mondo Rock 


· T.V. Tonight 

16 The Muppet Show 22 Family Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 46 Oral Roberts 16 Real People 22 She's A Good Skate, Charlie Brown 28 Greatest American Hero 34 Great Performances 46 2 I st Century News 
22 CBS Movie: "Hooper" 
46 The Renewed Mind 
16 Facts Of Life 
28 The Fall Guy 
46 Today With lester Sumrall 
16 love, Sidney 
16 Quincy 
28 Dynasty 

34 Say Brother: Black Dyad 
46 Calvary Temple 
34 Camera Three 
46 Michiana Today 
16 NcwsCentcr 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 The Dick Cavell Show 46 Praise The lord 
16 Tonight Show 
22 CBS Movie: "last OfThe Good Guys" 
28 ABC News Nightline 34 Captioned ABC News 
28 love Boat 46 lester Sumrall Teaching 
16 late Night With David lenerman 
7::)up.m. 
8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. !O:OOp.m. 
!0:30p.m. ll:OOp.m. 
11:30p.m. 
!2:00a.m. !2:30a.m. 

------------------------------------,
Discount Theatre Tickets are Available at fhe Student Union Ticket Office 
University Park $1.75 Forum $2.75 

49 Corolla segment 50 Dislnte· grates 51 Pizarro's conquest 
52 Greek Island 55 Stops 
talking 58 Egyptian 
solar disk 59 Hat fabric 60-Dame 61 Wood 
measure 62 Court costs 63 PGAname 
DOWN 1 Inventive 
Goldberg 2 Verge on 3 Procession 
of cars 4 Away to stand 
5 Kepta 
supply of 6 Pulverize 7 Engrossed 8 Cryof 
discovery 
9 Tang 10 Craved 11 Confederate 
signature 

12 Vibrant 13 Kinds 18 Exigency 19 Hence 24 Timetable 
abbr. 25 Famed Florentine 26 Yegg's 
target 27 Out of town 28 Quotes 30 Confined 32 Geteven 
with 33 "-a Kick 
Out of You" 34 Affectation 36 Succeeds 39 Impasse 41 Election 
night data 42 Literary 
anecdotes 44 Provotes 45 Native 
of Nlsh 46 Cui·­47 Muse for 
Keats 48 Romeo 49 Aphids 51 Soccer star 
from Brazil 53 Other: Sp. 54 Discard 56 Oncenam 57 Vast age 
Tonight Pub Pitchets Become a Reality Ill 
Pitchets of 

Heine ken and ffiolson Along with out out tegulat Weanesday Nlte Dtaft Special! 
P.s. St. Bat is open fotlunch tomouow 11:30-1:30. Come on out fot a Sub-Plate!
-

' 
' 
Wednesday, February 10, 1982-page 12
SRorts 

tendNotre Dame. For a full update on the players to join the Irish ln the fall, see Kelly Sullivan's story below. (Photo by Cheryl Ertelt) 
magnetism as a key factor in their decision to at-
Very good year 
Notre Dame gets five Parade picks 
By KELLY SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
Gerry Faust may never repeat the 

recruiting success he enjoyed last 
year, but the Irish head coach has. 
rounded up another top-flight class 
of high school seniors to Notre 
Dame. 
This morning, prep stars across 

the country were permitted to offi­
cially sign their national letters ofin­
tent, though many have already 
gone ahead and given verbal com­
mitments to colleges and univer· 
sities. 
The Observer has learned the 

names of 22 athletes, including five 
Parade All-Americans, who have in­
dicated to Faust and his staff they 
plan to enroll here next fall. 
Last season, Notre Dame signed 

l3Parade players en route to assem­bling what was called "the greatest crop of recruits ever to attend one college." Though there are fewer "big name" players on Faust's list this time, recruiting coordinator and assistant coach Brian Boulac insisted thatParade magazine is by no means the only measuring stick in evaluat­ing recruiting success. 
"There is no way you can really compare this year's recruits to last year's," said Boulac. "It's been a very good year, even though we may not have as many recruits, because we're going down to the wire on some kids and we may not get them." 
"We went after quality, not quan­tity," he emphasized. "On paper, they all look like fine athletes, al­though you never know until they get to campus." 
Before the week is out, Boulac said the coaches anticipate signing 23-25 players, although that number could vary depending on seniors who don't follow through with their verbal committments. 
"There are four to seven players 
we feel we may be able to get, but 
it'll go right down to the wire Wed­
nesday morning," Boulac admitted 
yesterday. However, Notre Dame 
didn't land everyone it had hoped to; 
The Observer learned that two 
Parade seniors Faust desperately 
wanted, lineman Bob Maggs and 
linebacker Kennedy Pola, decided 
to play elsewhere. Maggs, out ofCar­
dinal Mooney in Youngstown, Ohio 
picked Ohio State as his next school, 
while Pola, who starred at Mater Dei 
in Santa Ana, Calif .. will attend USC. 
The five Parade stars headed for Notre Dame include Cin~innati Moeller linebackerJohn Askin; Ohio place-kicker Hal Von Wyl; and linebackers Rick DiBernardo (Edison High School, Huntington Beach, Calif.); Tony Furjanic (Mt. Carmel H.S., Chicago, Ill.); and Ron Weisenhofer (St. Rita H.S., Chicago, Ill.). 
DiBernardo ( 6-3, 214) is con­sidered the best linebacker in the country -one scout called him "the player I would want out on the 
'The 5-6 season didn't botherme a bit. Notre Dame has always been known as a winner. 
field in a pressure situation." Likewise, Von Wyl was tabbed this year's top kicker. "We wanted him so bad, we were on him like a dirty shirt," admitted one college coach. 
The Chicago Tribune named Fur­janie ( 6-l, 215) Chicago's "Player of the Year" in 1981. In addition to Weisenhofer and Furjanic, five other Chicago athletes have committed themselves to the Irish. They are Mike Perrino ( 6-5, 245 ),a tackle from York H.S. in Elmhurst, Ill.; Ron Plantz ( 6-4, 240) a tackle from Gor­don Tech; Kevin Jennings (6-4, 185 ), a defensive back also from Gordon Tech; Lester Flemons ( 6-0, 185), a running back out of Blue Is­land Eisenhower; and John McCabe ( 6-3, 212 ), a linebacker for Ar­lington Heights. 
Most of the recruits en route to 

Notre Dame announced their plans a 
few weeks ago. Among them are: 
defensive tackle Sean I:Ieffern ( 6-5, 
240), Carmel, Ind.; running back Ray 
Carter (6-0, 180), Youngstown, 
Ohio; tighJ end Wally Kleine (6-7, 
230), Midland, Texas; defensive 
tackle Greg Dingens ( 6-6, 240), Bir­
mingham, Michigan; running back 
Allen Pinkett ( 5-l0, l 70), Sterling 
Park, Virginia; lineman Ken Cannella 
( 6-5, 245 ), South Bend; lineman Ray 
Makiejus (6-3, 230), St. John, Ind.; 
and quarterback Todd Lezon ( 6-4, 
200), Bedford, Mich. 
The Observer confirmed last­minute decisions made by the 
following seniors: running back Reggie Dupard (6-1, 190), River Ridge, Louisiana; lineman Tim Scan­nell ( 6-4, 250), State College, Pen­na; wide receiver David McGuffey ( 5-l0, I 72 ), Carlisle, Kentucky; and wide receiver Milt Jackson (6-0, 175 ), Fairfield, Iowa. 
Scannell had narrowed his choices to Notre Dame and Penn State, due to strong family ties with both schools. He grew up near the Penn State campus, and his father holds an administrative post there. Yet, Mr. Scannel was also an ex-Irish gridder, and Tim's grandfather headed the physical education department at Notre Dame and helped to build the Rockne Memorial. "He couldn't go wrong with either decision," said Tim's father. 
Likewise, other Irish recruits felt their choice to play for Faust was right, in spite of last year's 5-6 record. 
"The 5-6 season had no bearing on my decision whatsoever," admitted Milt Jackson. "I was throughly impressed with the coaches and players at Notre Dame -there are quality people up there." 
"I believe in Notre Dame's win­ning tradition," said Ken Cannella. "You have to consider that last fall was Coach Faust's first college season. He's had another excellent recruiting year, and his enthusiasm is the best any coach could offer." 
"I liked Coach Faust's honesty and personality," offered Greg Dingens. "He's a great guy," agreed Tony Fur­janie. "The 5-6 season didn't bother me a bit. Notre Dame has always been known as a winner. It being his first year had a lot to do with the record." 
"That kind ofseason will only hap­pen once every twenty years," · agreed 'Dave McGuffey. "Notre Dame's a great school with a great tradition. I loved what I saw." 
INSIDE 
'Crowd, 'p. 10 Hoops,p. 9 NHL,p.8 

BATES BEST -DiStanislao's freshman players have been the mainstay of the team this season. A rookie has led the Irish in either scoring or rebounding in all but two games this year. One of the frosh standouts is Carrie Bates, who boasts a 12.3 
scoring average despite coming off the bench as a reserve forward. 
Bates pulled down a peronal career-high 13 rebounds vs. Mt. St. 
Joseph's Friday, and has scored in double figures in eight straight 
games. Double-digit performances in each of the next two games 
will tie Bates for the team record held by teammate Shari Matvey. 
CLOSE ONLY COUNTS IN ... -The Irish men take a 7-12 record 
into Saturday evening's 8 p.m. showdown with North Carolina State 
in the ACC. After a 2-9 season start, the Irish began their turnaround 
in a 57-55 loss to San Francisco on January 12th. Since that game, 
Phelps' squad has won five of eight games, and their three losses 
(Villanova, Marquette and UCLA) have come bya total of 11 points. 
Three ofthe last four losses (Marquette excluded) have come bya 
total of five points, and of Notre Dame's 12 losses to date, one has 
been by one point (UCLA), three by two points (Murray State, San 
Francisco, Villanova) and one has been in overtime (Kentucky). 
PICK FIVE, ANY FIVE -Part of the reason behind Notre Dame's 
success oflate could be attributed to the lineup combination Digger 
Phelps finally found. After the loss to San Francisco, Phelps went 
with his sixth different combination of the season, John Paxson and 
Mike Mitchell at guards, Tim Andree at center and Barry Spencer and 
Bill Varner at the forwards. That quintet started the seven games of 
Notre Dame's recent homestand and posted a 5-2 record. 
Due to Andree's iingering fever, Cecil Rucker took Andree's place in the lineup against UCLA and contributed 12 points, tying Paxson for game scoring honors. 
THE SECOND SEASON -Accompanying Notre Dame's roundball turnaround has been a marked difference in the team's stats. During the first 11 games of the season, the Irish shot 46.0 percent (269­
585) from the field; during the past eight games they have hit 52.5 percent ( 188-358). At the free throw line, the Irish shot 61.1 per­cent ( 1 10-180) in the first half of the season, while they have per­formed at 67.8 percent (97-143) for the second half 
Notre Dame's opponents connected on 53.5 percent (267-499) of their floor attempts in Notre Dame's first 11 games, while hitting only 49.5 percent ( 185-374) in the last eight games. That figure includes Marquette's record-setting 67.4 percent performance at the ACC one and a halfweeks ago. 
The biggest change in statistics (delta S for you math majors), occurred in opponent's free throw percentage, where the figure dropped almost 20 percent from the first half to the second half of the season. Irish foes hit 74.8 percent ( 184-246) from the line in the first 1 1 games, but managed only 55.5 percent ( 61-11 1 ) in the second half. Some of that second half figure obviously can be at­tributed to Notre Dame's "distracting" home crowd. 
Where is Bowie Kuhn when you need him? 
MAKING BELIEVERS -The recent successes of the Irish basket­
ball team have brought Digger Phelps several compliments recently, 
even in defeat. 
Following Sunday's UCLA game, Bruin Sports Information Direc­
tor Gary Ruasch said, "Well, he finally did it. Digger proved to me 
today that he's one of the great coaches in the game. That was a 
masterful coaching job. He really is something." 
Considering the inexperience from which this year's team suf­fered, as well as the slim number ofbodies available to Phelps, color commentator Bucky Waters remarked two months ago that "This year, Digger Phelps has proven that he is one ofthe greatest coaches in college basketball, because he has held together a team that so far hasn't shown it has the talent ofa good high school team." 
And AI McGuire, evangelizing at the December UCLA-Notre Dame game, said, "If Digger wins 17 games with this team, he should go straight to the Hall ofFame. They should put his picture right next to Wooden's." 
Although he won't win 1 7 games this year, Phelps has converted a lot ofpeople (particularly in the last three weeks). Let's just hope he remembers the "humbling" experience of the first two months. 
RAY'S RETURN -Ray Martin, who captained the Irish basketball team during the 1976·77 season and was a member ofthe Irish team that snapped UCLA's 88-game winning streak, will return to the ACC on Saturday, but on the other end ofthe court. 
Martin, who received his degree in 1977, is now an assistant coach for North Carolina State. The top defensive player on the Irish in ! 975-76, Martin joined the Wolfpack staff in 1980. 
The Irish own a 3-1 edge in the all-time series with North Carolina State, winning 71-55 in Raleigh last year. Two years ago in the ACC, The Wolfpack upset Notre Dame 63-53. 
See ITEMS, page 9 


