, , .Desjardin -page 9 


VOL. XVII, NO. 28 the independent ..,tudent Ill."\\ ..,paper serving notre Janu-and ..,aim mary·.., TUESDAY, OCTOBER 5,1982 

Hesburgh futuristic in address to faculty 
By BARBARA PillS exibit leadership at all levels of the University and to remember that the "common good must be the guiding 
University President Father star" in the quest for higher educa-Theodore Hesburgh referred to the tion for students. past'reputation ofthe University as a "Notre Dame requires a tighter "prelude to the future," and spoke ship and only the faculty can rig it," with guarded optimism for the Uni· Hesburgh said, looking to the reform versity's outlook yesterday in his an· of curriculum actiVIties and 
nual address to Notre Dame's faculty reexamination ofthe amount oftime in washington Hall. faculty and students spend together. 
Hesburgh spoke of the advent of He added that at this point in the the millenium and the propects for a University's career, an overall vision university education in the year ofthe conditions is lacking. 2000. Quoting frequently from a Citing from reports published at report published by the Carnegie Duke and Princeton t:niversities, Commission on Education, Hes· Hesburgh said that a primary goal of burgh highlighted the facts of the the University should be to con­decrease in student enrollment and centrate its limited resources into federal funding. specit1c, quality areas. In other 
According to the report, with 25 words, he said it is in the better in· percent less incoming students in terest of the University and it's stu· the year 2000, universities will be dents to channel it's attentions into a 

News Staff 
university education and suggested how facul~y 
vying for the limited amount of stu· select group ofactivities and studies 
can play a part. (Photo by Pete Laches) 
dents applying for admission. The rather than spread too thinly its report also says that the quality of available resources. education these students will Among Notre Dame's resources, receive at various institutions is according to Hesburgh, are the an·

With Hesburgh 
questionable. nual endowme~ts of over 200 mil-With diminishing federal funding, hon, placmg ll 18th m pnvate lab equipment will be obsolete, institutions. Ten percent of this
Facuity Senate discusses policies 
programs will be cancelled and money 1s contnbuted to the budget, faculty posts will be abandoned aimed at achieving "distinguished"

ByJOHNCOEN Hesburgh stated that a student's cur­the art department. When this without replacements. academic standards.
News Staff riculum should be structured so that project is completed, the old a broad knowledge of subjects fieldhouse will be torn down. These characteristics are already Student life, curriculum reform, outside one's area ofspecialty would Washington Hall is being appearing in universities around the Whatever challenges present be included. remodeled so it can be used for nation, according to Hesburgh. themselves in the future, Hesburgh
and policy dealing with the faculty were the primary subjects of con­A rudimentary knowledge of the more classroom space and as a "Weaker institutions get weaker," concluded, he does not fear them. A cern as University President humanities is necessary for the stu· theater. A new faculty building is Hesburgh said. Yet, he added, price cannot be placed on the "inner Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., dent in engineering or the sciences. being built behind O'Shaughnessy stronger universities, such as Notre quality" oflife on this campus nor on 
addressed a gathering of the Faculty In addition, those studying the Hall. Cushing Hall is undergoing Dame, get stronger. the indefineable and unique com-Senate last night at the Center for 
humanities need to possess a basic minor renovations. Hesburgh called on the faculty to munity spirit, he said. Continuing Education. 
understanding of the concepts of The Senate, chaired by Professor science and engineering, especially Vaughn McKim, is composed of ap· this com­Who concert
in highly technological proximately 40 faculty members 
puter age. Hesburgh acknowledged elected from each of the four col­that this process is difficult, especial­leges of the university and serves as ly in relationship to the demands of 


River City Records cancels trip 
an advisory body to the administra· the job market in the fields of tion. engineering and science. 

By DIANE DIRKERS the beginning of September, we took a higher offer for the tickets
Speaking to the Senate in an infor­The members of the Senate asked 

SeniorStaffReporter were told that there were already from someone else," explained Ker·
mal question and answer session, Hesburgh several questions dealing five or six buses filled," said Tim nan. "He led us on for over a monthHesburgh commented on student with the university policy on faculty Two bus trips to the Who concert White, a senior from Pangborn Hall. until he finally cancelled out on ourlife, stating that he thought the uni· leaves of absence. Hesburgh said at Chicago's Rosemont Horizon -"Last week, we started to get tickets last Saturday." 

versity was " a good place to grow that the administration is exploring sponsored by River City Records -worried because they hadn't called Over S13,000 was collected forup," and he h"ped that students ways to improve what he considers a were cancelled late yesterday after­us to pick up our tickets and we had the trip, and Kernan intends towould take ad,,,ntage of the en­fairly liberal policy, which usually al­noon, one day before scheduled no idea when the buses were refund all the money starting Mon­vironment to get a broad education lows professors to pursue research departure. River City Records never scheduled to leave. River City day, Oct. 11 at 5 p.m. 

and not just a technical knowledge or to take a sabbactical for personal had "tickets in hand", according to Records told us that they didn't have "I probably feel worse than theof one subject. His desire was that reasons. 

Peter ]. Kernan, the outlet's them yet -they still had to pick people who bought the packages,"··people get out of here with a few At the end of the meeting Hes­
proprietor. them up from their ticket agent." he said. "Besides having to refunddoubts and that they develop "a burgh gave a rundown of the con­A ticket broker in Chicago -who "Saturday we stopped by the store the ticket money, I have sunk a lot ofcuriosity so they can go on learning struction projects now occuring on had promised River City 280 tickets and the tickets still weren't there," money into promoting this thing.
for the rest of their lives. the campus. The old chemistry to the Who's Chicago performances said White. "They told us to call back Not to mention the fact that I stand

In the area of curriculum reform, building is being renovated fO house on Oct. 5 and Oct. 6 -never came Monday, but the lines were con­to lose a lot ofgoodwill." through on the deal, explained Ker· stantly busy. Finally we went over In response to student allegations nan last night. No written contract there to find out that the whole trip that they were never contacted




Israeli warplanes blast 
was ever drawn up for the transac­was cancelled. Supposedly, we'll get about the cancellation, Kernan tion. our money back next week." replied, "We've been on the phones "It would have been safer to have Doug Murphy, a St. Ed's sopho· since Saturday afternoon to inform
~Jrian missile battery 
the tickets in hand, I admit," more, was never notified of the can· people that the status ofthe trip was conceded Kernan. "But we've al­cellation by River City Records. questionable. I thought we had got· BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) · Israeli forces out of Lebanon. ways handled these agreements ver­"They never called me," Murphy ten hold ofnearly everyone." 
jets blasted a Syrian missile battery Meanwhile, President Amin bally before with no problems." complained last night. "I finally "It's a k>t of money and a lot of east of Beirut Sunday and Lebanese Gemayel asked acting Prime Minis­A S49 package purchased at River called tonight to see when the buses responsibility," Kernan admits. "I radio reports said the Israeli ter Shafik Wazzan to head his City Records was supposed to in· were coming tomorrow. The guy feel obligated to get those people to 
warplanes also struck at Palestinian government, and Wazzan im­elude a round-trip bus ride to the just told me that they weren't." a Who concert somewhere, and I'll positions in the eastern mountains. mediately started negotiations to Rosemont, beverages along the jour­"I feel badly, although it wasn't do my best to get them to the Although Israel did not link the air form a Cabinet. ney, and a ticket to either the Oct. 5 really my fault," Kernan claimed. December Rosemont concert -if it strike to an ambush that killed six Is· A multinational force of 3,500 or Oct. 6 performance of the Who "I've always dealt with concert tick· is confirmed." 
raeli soldiers Sunday, it was an­U.S., French and Italian troops has The package had been advertised ets (without written contracts) and Those who purchased packagesnounced after a special Israeli been patrolling and clearing land since late August and all 280 it has worked out. I've even worked for the Oct. 5 and Oct. 6 perfor­Cabinet meeting to discuss the at· mines in the capital since last Wed­packages had been sold. through this agent before with no mances have the option of a full 
tack on the Israeli soldiers. nesday, and Beirut was reported 
Although River City Records problem." refund or an even trade for tickets to 
The Israeli air attacks, the first calm. never had any concert tickets, the Kernan refused to name the a potential Who encore concert at since mid-September, came as U.S. North of the capital, Lebanese shop did not announce its cancella­Chicago-based agent, saying that it the Rosemont in early December. special envoy Philip C. Habib was police reported at least 14 dead and was "bad business" to do so.
tiQn of the bus trip until 5 p.m. yes­headed to Washington for consulta­25 wounded in battles between rival terday -one day before the first "This time, I think the demand for 
"The Chicago Sun Times said yes­
tions after a round of talks in Israel militia forces at Tripoli. 
concert. the concert was so great that the terday that that concert was 'all but and Syria on getting their occupying 
See LEBANON, page 4 "When we bought our tickets at broker probably got greedy and confirmed,"' stated Kernan. 



News Brie 


By The Obsen•er and The AssodatedPress 
Technicians in Chicago have so far found no cyanide in empty capsules and powder found in a parking lot a day before the first of seven victims died from poisoned Extra-Strength Tylenol, the state attorney general said last night. Meanwhile, about 1,300 volunteers fanned out through the city yesterday to warn the lonely and elderly who may not have heard about the deadly capsules placed in several stores in the Chicago area last week. Offi­cials of various governmental agencies sought measures to prevent future tampering with over-the-counter drugs. In the Chicago area, the Cook County Board approved an ordinance requiring such drugs be sealed before they are sold. In Washington, the Food and Drug Administration announced that drug manufacturers were setting up a task force to seek new safeguards. -AP 
About 1,300 volunteers fanned o~t through the city yesterday to warn the lonely and elderly who may not have heard about cyanide in Extra-Strength Tylenol. Government offi­cials, meanwhile, sought measures to prevent future tampering with over-the-counter drugs. Authorities reported no significant progress in the hunt for the random killer who claimed seven victims by placing deadly capsules on several different stores in the Chicago area last week. On Sunday, state Attorney General Tyrone Fahner said investigators t were looking at more than two dozen suspects who included "malcontents ...and weirdos who don't act right or did something extremely out of the ordinary." He said investigators believe one person acted alone, filling the capsules at home and then 
"salting" store shelves with the tainted capsules. -AP 
Canadian pianist Glenn Gould, one of the 
foremost performers of the keyboard works of Johann Sebastian Bach and the musical world's most celebrated eccentric, is dead at the age of 50. Gould, who retired from the concert stage when he was 31 but continued to make best-selling recordings, suffered a stroke on Sept. 27, two days after his 50th birthday. He died yester­day at Toronto General Hospital without regaining consciousness, his family said. Ray Roberts, Gould's longtime associate, said he had not been ill before the stroke. The funeral service will be private, and a memorial service will be held later, the family announced. Born in Toronto, Gould demonstrated perfect pitch and could read music at the age ofthree. He graduated from the Royal Conservatory ofMusic in Toronto at the age of 12 -the youngest graduate in the school's history -and made his debut with the Toronto Symphony at 14. He played his first successful U.S. recitals in Washington, D.C., and New York in January 1955, when he was 22. -AP 
President-elect Miguel de Ia Madrid denies that Mexico is going socialist and says he will work for continued good relations with the United States. De Ia Madrid, who succeeds Presi­dent Jose Lopez Portillo Dec. 1, said in a TV interview broadcast Sunday that despite his predecessor's nationalization of Mexico's private banks on Sept. 1, "it is not, nor can it be the intention of the Mexican government to lead the country to a process of socializa­tion." "My commitment is to the Mexican Revolution and not to socialism," he said. The takeover of the banks and enterprises they control increased the government's share of the business and in­dustrial output to about 80 percent, according to unofficial es­timates. But de Ia Madrid said "private enterprise continues to have vast areas to develop its initiatives in," and the "mixed economy" in which the government and private enterprise function jointly "is still in effect." -AP 
Excluding its payroll,Anheuser-Busch does an es­tim.ated $50 million business a year with the black community, said Smtth, one of the company's two black vice presidents. The com­pany makes a profit of $217.4 million in 1981 on sales ofover S3.8 billion. Brewery officials point out that that they are already doing more than the measures called for in P.U.S.H. contracts with other industries. Coca-Cola signed a one-year S30 million contract, while Seven-Up agreed to a five-year commitment to put S61 million into the black community. Heublein Corp., which owns Kentucky Fried 
Chicken, had previously accepted a five-year 560 million pact. -AP 
Two Indianapolis high schools are among so in the nation chosen to receive 520,000 "City High School Recognition Grants" from the Ford Foundation. Arsenal Technical High School School and George Washington High School in Indianapolis are among those given funds earmarked for a range ofgoals from com­puter literacy to help for underachieving students. Indianapolis is one of30 cities to receive the funds. The grants, announced by Ford yesterday, were the second round ofawards given by the foundation to recognize and promote improvement at urban high schools in areas such as math and English instruction, computer training, and expansion ofvocational and extracurricular programs. "As we saw in the first stage ofthe City High School Recognition Program, many of these schools are succeeding in their multiple responsibilities to a greater extent than they are generally givencredit for. Now we want to help them build on their successes," said Edward). Meade, Jr., a program officer at Ford. -AP 
Sunny todayand warm. High in upper 70's and low 80's. Becoming partly cloudy tonight with a 20 percent chance of late showers. Low in mid SO's to about 60. Chance ofshowers tomorrow with high in mid and upper 70s. -AP 
Tuesday, October 5, 1982 -page 2 
I like the dining hall 
It is always easier to malign than praise. In fact if we humans couldn't malign, complain, moan, or groan, we would be in real trouble. A large portion ofour days are devoted to uttering and hearing phrases like this: "This weather sucks (this is heard rain or shine)!" "My roommate is a bonehead," "People are icky," "My girl/boyfriend is a jerk!", "My classes are boring," "I'm failing!", "South Bend is a hole," and the list goes on and on with an array ofgloom and doom. 
But one topic overshadows even the most tragic of these laments: the dining hall. Each day persons here find something about their dining experience worth complaining about. Entire conversations involving numerous tablemates have been based on the sogginess of the broccoli or just what the casserole is composed of. 
Is the amount of abuse the dining hall receives jus­tified? I don't think so. In fact, I look forward to my daily treks to either the north or south facilities. Am I out of my mind you ask? Have I eaten one too many cream­filled long johns? I don't think so. The dining halls have several points in their favor. 
First ofall, let me get to the stomach ofthe matter ­

the food. I don't see how anyone can find fault with the 
selection. As a child I nor­to meet up with friends. mally enjoyed yummy and During my first two years nutritious meals fixed by my here, a friend and I ate at the mother. However once in a same table sitting in the while some object would be same chairs of South Dining placed before me that I had Hall every night. While minimal taste for. In those others may have looked at us days I either closed my eyes as a couple of boring goof­and ate it, or I fasted. Now, if nut drones locked into one of the food line workers routine, Neil and I relaxed, offers some liver to me, I can visited with friends, and ex­politely refuse and flee to changed gossip. Last semes­some other choice. ter a quirk in my class 
The food doesn't taste too schedule allowed me to eat bad either. What many dinner at Saint Mary's often. people forget is the that the These were enjoyable times logistics of serving several spent with friends with thousand people can play whom I normally didn't havoc with the quality of dine. I also enjoyed the even the most finely subtle differences of Saint prepared items. When you Mary's dining, the soft serve 
are cooking up a few hundred pounds of green beans, they can't always come out finely sauteed. I remember touring th<; kitchens of the North Dining Hall a few years ago; it's hard to express the feelings I felt inside as I gazed upon a steaming mountain of meatloaf. The meatloaf itself is a good example ofthe food. It is rather bland, but with some ketchup sloshed on, it can move through your system with minimal distress. 
Occasionally the dining hall surpasses itself. Last Thursday was the acclaimed "South of the Border" night. I will admit to beinga bit wary ofthe whole event. At home in California, the preparation of Mexican food is a statewide pastime. I grew up eating the products of the Tampico Restaurant in downtown Santa Cruz. The food there was stuff I dreamed ofduring those long days between trips home. And since some of the Tampico's finest cooks are each week deported, I doubted that the dining halls here inindiana, could do justice to a tortil­la. Happily I was wrong. With some help from an outside supplier, the dining hall staff did a credible job. I was greeted by decent renditions of many popular 
The Observer 
Design Editor.............................. Tim Neely Design Assistant ........................... Troy Illig 
Sarah Hamilton layout Staff.................. .... Maureen Burke Typesetters .......................... Jim MacLennan 
Mark Miotto News Editor........................... Michele Dietz Copy Editor........ . ............... Diane Dirkers Editorials Layout ............... Ken Cerabona B & T layout......................... Alex and Troy Sports Copy Editor............ Rich O'Connor Typist ....................................... Mary Torchia 
Chris Perry ND Day Editor .......................... Dave Grote SMC Day Editor ........................ Tari Brown Ad Design ................................jeannie Euch Photographer ............................ Pete Laches Guest Appeara,.ces ....................................... . 
Oreos and skim milk Laura, I missed you... 
The Observer tUSPS 598 920t '" published Monday through Fr~day and on home toutball Saturdays except dunng exam ana v<~cattun per,v:lS The Observer tS published by tnt: students of Notre Da'11e and Satnt Mary s Cut lege Subscnpltons '11ay be purcnased for $25 per year IS15 per seme~ter) by 
"'"''ng The Observer P 0 Bux 0 Notre Dame tndtana 45555 
The Observer 's a 'l1emoer nf The Associated Press All repruductton nghts are reserve a 



dishes; there were nachos and best ofall, vats ofgenuine guacamole. The screams of demented mariachis could even be heard over the sound system. 
The food service powers that be should feel proud of the job they did for the students. They didn't have to do it, but they did. Most ofthe employees do make an effort to do their best. Often times, I have gotten that extra dose ofgravy, or that center piece ofpizza by displaying a winning smile, and remembering my manners (the kind I learned by politely eating liver at my sister's). This year the workers are even sporting those "lettuce 
serve you" buttons. Who could question this kind of spirit? Through the years, going to eat has been somewhat of an escape from the routine ofschool. It can be a chance 
ice cream, the always available cereal, and a certain am­biance not found in the middle ofthe South Dining Hall mobs. These were not meals of nutrition, but meals of pleasure. (Although I did not like the chairs, which are dangerous to people ofreduced coordination.) 
Even now, as I live off-campus, I still have a partial meal plan. One oflife's pleasures is sitting by a window at the North Dining Hall, sipping coffee, and reading the newspaper (The Observer, of course). I also am not home too often, so the convenience ofa meal plan is all that stands between myself and sure starvation. It is enjoyable to hear some of my off-campus brethren express their joy at being away from the dining halls, and then observe t the mysterious brews and simmering goos they prepare for themselves. 
So the next time you are tempted to base your mealtime conversation on a cutdown of your vittles, remember, you are what you eat. 


------------· -·-·----------­
·rhe Observer Tuesday, October 5, 1982 -page 3 
Falkland Islands 
Thatcher Cabinet tnetnber speaks 

ByTOMPACE 
News Staff 
"Why did we risk lives to defend small, remote and sparsely pop· ulated islands? The answer is a simple one. To uphold a principle," stated the Right Honorable Sally Op­penheim -cabinet member for Margaret Thatcher -at a lecture last night in the Library Auditorium. 
Commenting on the Falkland Is­land situation. Oppenheim con­tinued to say that Great Britain wished "to demonstrate that aggres­sion does not pay." If that demonstration proved to set a precedent against military aggres­sion. she said, "then that war. the loss of those lives, and the salvation of that principle which were ere al­ready worthwhile, will have been made a hundred percent more worthwhile." 
In discussing the precursors to the actual battles, the speaker stressed that " the mood of the house called for nothing less than the dispatch ofa large task force." 
Apparently, this was also the 
mood of a majority of the people of 

$7 000 Mellon fellowships available to seniors, grads 
ByPATSAIN 
News Staff 
New fellowships called Mellon fellowships -worth !\7,000 and graduate school tuition are available this year to seniors and recent graduates planning careers as humanities professors. These fellow­ships are sponsored by the Woodrow Wilson Foundation. 
Candidacy for the Mellon Fellow· ship requires nomination by a faculty member, which must be sub­mitted no later than Nov. 5, accord· ing to Notre Dame professor Walter Nicgorski, who serves as campus representative for the fellow~ ....ps. 
''Without the encouragement of fellowships, in the face of an ap­parent depressing job market for college teachers, very talented un­dergraduates are being attracted to other fields," Nicgorski said last week. "The Mellon Fellowships are a tangible way to induce people to go into teaching." 
Between 100 and 125 of the renewable fellowships will be awarded nationwide. No more than 10 will be given at any one univer­sity. 
The fellowships are open to fields in the traditional humanities, includ­ing history and American Studies. The performing arts, however, are excluded. 
"Studies indicate that in the 1990's, there will be a need for ex­cellent teachers in the humanities," Nicgorski said. "The danger isn't that there will not be a lot of teachers, but that the best minds will not be in the teaching field." The Mellon Fellowships are similar to those given for several years by the Dan­forth Foundation. These were pres­tigious fellowships which paid for graduate study at the master's de­gree level, and were for anyone who wanted to enter college teaching. 
"The Danforth Fellowships were 
for those who saw an ultimate and 
religious value in teaching," said 
Nicgorski, who was the campus rep· 
resentative for the fellowships for 
five years. Notre Dame had an excel· 
lent record in getting the Danforth 
fellowships, with t1ve or six t1nalists 
and one or two winners a year. 
The Mellon Fellowships are also 
similar to the Woodrow Wilson Fel­
lowships, which were given at the 
same time as the Danforth Fellow­
ships. "A number of our faculty are 
Woodrow Wilson fellows," said Nic· 
gorski. 

Student Senate urges lights on b-ball courts 
By MICHAEL L. BRENNAN 
News Staff 
Imagine it -playing Bookstore Basketball "under the lights" on Stepan courts. 
The installatio:1 of lights on some of the University_, outdoor basket­hall and tennis courts was proposed last night by the Student Senate. 
In a letter today to Student Affairs Vice-President Father John Van Wolvlear, the Senate requested he consider the feasibility of installing permanent lighting for the Stepan and Lyons basketball courts, and four of the Courtney tennis courts. 
The letter suggests lights as a 
means of alleviating the nighttime 
overcrowding at the University's in­
door facilities. namely the Rockne 
Memorial, Stepan Center. and the 
ACC. 
Recognizing the expense of in­
stalling outdoor lights, and realizing 
that the television networks will not 
be as anxious to foot this bill as they 
were for the night game, the Senate 
further proposed that the basketball 
courts could be flooded and used as 
ice rinks during the winter. Thus, 
the lights could be used year-round. 
Special Projects Commissioner Rob Bertino researched the over­crowding of the indoor facilities, and suggested the outdoor lighting as a possible solution. Bertino noted that an average of 100 students per weeknight are using "The Rock", and nighttime use of the Stepan 
courts is reserved for various halls and clubs. 
This leaves only the ACC courts available. Director of Non-Varsity Athletics Dr. Tom Kelly said, "We could have 5 more courts (in the ACC) and they would still be t11Jed." 
It is no secret that Notre Dame has 
more than its fair share of basketball 
fanatics, who will play anytime, 
anywhere -as evidenced by some 
of last year's Bookstore Basketball 
games that were played in sub-artie 
conditions. The Senate feels that 
lights installed on the Stepan and 
Lyons courts would be put to good 
use, especially during the annual 
Bookstore Tourament. 
Furthermore, using the courts as 
ice rinks during the South Bend win­
ters would mean close to H more 
months ofuse for the lights annually. 
.The Senate would also like to have four of the outdoor tennis courts lighted, as there are presently only three courts available for night play. Even those three courts cannot be reserved, nor are they available during hockey games (the bleachers overlap onto the courts). These Senate proposals for outdoor lights are in their infancy, though. While the Senate feels the proposal is a good idea, there will be many obstacles to be hurdled before stu­dents can go skating behind Lyons Hall at midnight. 
Student Body President Lloyd Burke will meet with Father Van Wolvlear sometime this week to get his reactions on the feasability ofthe Senate proposals. 
Great Britain, according to Oppen­heim, because "the real and overrid· ing power lies where it should lie in any democracy -with the people, through their democratically elected Parliament. 
In answer to the question -"Can Maggie hold On ?" -Oppenheim asserted that the opinion polls were in the Prime Minister's favor before the Falkland incident arose, and that those polls should continue to favor Mrs. Thatcher after all of the back­wash from the incident is gone. 
The rest of the address centered on the power structure of the government in Great Britain. Op­penheim was quick to point out that the major difference between the governments of Great Britain and the United States lies in the selection ofcabinet members. 
Members of the Prime Minister's. cabinet are elected, rather than ap­pointed, as is the case in the United States. Also, those people who are elected to the Prime Minister's cabinet must be members of politi­cal parties. They cannot be involved in private industry. This gives Great Britain a much more powerful cen­ter ofgovernment. 
Oppenheim rounded out her address by reiterating that the power in her country's government may be diffused through the system, but the real power lies in Parliament. 

Margaret Thatcher's cabinet memberSally Oppenheim reflected upon theFalklandIsland crisis in a lecture last night in theLibrary Auditorium. (Photo by Pete Laches) 
BEGINNER OR ADVANCED· Cos liS about Jhe same as a semester rna US college $3.189 Prrce rncludes tel round Jrrp to Sev111e from New York. room. board, and tUition complete Government grants and loans available tor ellgtble students 
uve wrlh a Spanrsh fam1ly, attend classes four hours a day, four days a week, four months Earn 16 hrs. of credit {equivalent to 4 semesters­taught '" U S. colleges over a two year 11me span) Your Span1sn stud1es w1ll be enhanced by opportumties not available m a U.S class· 
SEMESTER IN SPAIN 
For full information-write to: 
2442 E. Collier S.E., Grand Rapids, Michigan 49506 (A Program of Trinity Christian College) 

room StandardiZed tests show our students' language skillS supeuor to students completrng two year pr09rams rn u S Advanced courses also 


------------------·------------­
Until December 

A debate on the issue -whetheror nota nuclearfreeze is healthy 
Service predicts milder weather 
in the world -was held last night in Carroll Hall, Saint Mary's. 
.,. The Observer
..
. 
Tuesday, October 5, 1982-page 4 
Nuclear freeze drive signs 12,000 
By THERESA HARDY have been participating in the hoping that the nuclear freeze drive News Staff nuclear freeze drive. will be a major issue in the elections. "The South Bend drive is one seg· Eventually, the organization would Over 12,000 signatures have been ment of a worldwide peace move­like to see the issue voted on again in collected in support of the South ment to stop the production, the House of Representatives. Last Bend Nuclear Freeze Drive. deployment, and development of year the issue only lost by two votes. The drive, which began about 18 strategic weapons," said Brother Emily Connolly, an active par­months ago, concludes next Sunday, William Mewes, coordinator of the ticipant in organizing the door-to· Oct. 10. drive. Mewes believes. that "the door campaign is pleased with the 
Various tactics, such as petition­freeze is crucially important, espe· public's reception of the petition. ing in malls and fairs and the dis· cially within the nex.t two years, be­"Most people are willing to support tribution offlyers, have been used to cause if this issue isn't solved, there the drive and at least one person in encourage the public to sign the will be no other issues." every household will sign," said freeze petition. The most recent of As signatures have been collected, Connolly. these is door-to-door campaigning they have been sent to Congressman which began four weeks ago. john Hiler. After next Sunday, all She also noticed that some people 
Several Notre Dame and Saint signatures will be turned over to the are hesitant about signing, not be­Mary's students have taken part in Indianapolis State Office and copies cause they are against the freeze, but this campaign. will be distributed to Senator because they do not really know 
A nuclear freeze is a halt to any Richard Lugar. Other copies will be about the movement. She stresses 
further development of nuclear sent to other candidates of the that the freeze does not treat nuclear weapons by the United States and November elections. power, only future nuclear Russia. Citizens of both countries Mewes and other supporters are weapons. 

(Photo by Pete Laches) 
By CINDY COLDIRON 
SeniorStaffReporter

r----------------, 
Winter will probably not be as bad

t Ihe Obset:Ver _t 
as last year, according to the recent· 

t MANDATORY WORKSHOP t for all News Reporters 
WERE YOU EVER A 
WASHINGTON D.C. INTERN? 
H you were, then come to an 
ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING FOR EX-INTERNS 
Tues. Oct. 5 7:00pm Room 2-D,lafortune 
QUESTIONS? Call Robert 177-1773 


UNBEATABLE PRICES!! 
1621 South Bend Ave. (only) 

Jack Daniels $7.99
KEG SPECIALS 

''Your Keg and Quart Headquarters'' 
Jim Beam $5.49 Jose'Cvervo Tequila $6.99
Hamm's 

Frangelico $11.49 Southern Comfort $6.49
$4.99 case 24 cans 

Steel Schnapps $6.99 
************************* 

Fire Bailers 
Bacardi 151" $8.59
Pabst 

Wild Turkey 101 $l1.99 Everclear 190'­
Generic Light 


(grain alcohol) $8.99 JW Dant100" 
$5.99 case24cans 

$6.59 
************************* 
Quart Beer Specials

Budweiser $29.99 
Wine
Old Milwaukee $6.99 Budweiser $8.99 

Bud Light $28.99 
J. Roget Champagne 750 Ml
Pabst $7.99 

Riunite Lambrusco 750 ML 
Strohs $8.99 

Bonifato Bianco 1.5 L CARLO ROSSI Bar Stockers 
BIG 

Bellows Gin 1.75 $9.99
4 LitER 

Calvert Gin 1.75 $9.99
~$4~9 

Macintosh Scotch 1. 75 $11.99 Kanchatka Vodka 1.75 $8.99 Prices Good Thru Oct. 12, 1982 
Lord Calvert 1.75 $9·99 
t 
ly released weather outlook from 
the National Weather Service for t October to December, 1982. This ninety-day forecast predicts that the "probability of relatively cold weather is 55 percent or better from the Northern and Central Great Plains eastward through the Great lakes and the Ohio and Ten· nessee valleys." Translated into non­metereologist language, this statement means that the 55 percent chance of relatively cold weather is fairly insignificant. "We will probably have normal or slightly below normal temperatures for this pe.riod of the year," stated WNDU metereologist Bob Werner. According to Werner, although winter looks more favorable, the forecast does not extend to the post· December weather, which.is usually the coldest time ofthe year. As for the question of possible preparations being made by the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Ad· ministration offices for snow days, both colleges do not have any set plans. Leo. M. Corbaci, Dean of Ad­ministration, .stated that when a snow day is to be declared, the deci­sion usually either comes from Uni· 


Closest Liquor Sivre toN D· Campus 
Shooter Specials (750 ML) 
versity President Father Theodore Hesburgh or from the Provost's office. 
Emphasizing that the University always attempts to keep the food services open when snow days are declared, Dean Corbaci stated that these days are "handled as the crisis occurs." 
Saint Mary's Public Information Officer, Karen Heisler, stated that the colleges could not predict when a snow day would occur. therefore, 
.. . Lebanon 
continuedfrom page I 
On Sunday, six Israeli soldiers were killed and 22 wounded by automatic weapons and bazooka fire in an ambush of their bus at Aley, about I 0 miles southeast of Beirut and near Syrian lines. The Israeli military command in Tel Aviv blamed Palestinian guerrillas, but despite searches and roadblocks in the area, the attackers were not captured. 
Israel said its planes bombed a SAM-9 anti-aircraft missile battery at Dahr el-Baidar, 20 miles east of the capital, to demonstrate Israel will not tolerate Syrian missiles in Lebanon. The rightist Christian Voice of Lebanon radio said two ad­
$1.99 
$1.99 
$1.99 
the basis of their decision is on reports released by the Indiana State Police on road conditions and on reports released by the weather bureau. 
Heisler added that both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame are primari­ly residential colleges, so the deci­sion to cancel classes often depends on whether the professors and ad­-ministration, not the students, can get on campus. 
ditional areas were attacked, Ein Dara and Dhour Schweir, and said the strikes were aimed at Syrian and Palestinian positions. 
In the early days of the Lebanese invasion mounted June 6, Israeli warplanes knocked out missile bat· teries Syria had moved into the Bekaa Valley in 1981, and shot down scores ofSyrian MiG fighter jets. 
State Department deputy spokes· man Alan Romberg said in Washing· ton that the United States "deplored" the attack, and indicated the White House looked upon it as a retaliation to the bus ambush. 
"It underlines the importance for all parties to work together to seek 
rapid  withdrawal  of  all  foreign  
forces  from  Lebanon,"  Romberg  
said.  

Habib, who negotiated the agree­ment for getting an estimated 8,000 Palestinian guerrillas out of Beirut last month, headed for Washington after a stopover in Rome. 
St. Mary's candidate 
meeting 
There will be a mandatory 
meeting tonight for all St. Mary's 
freshmen interested in running for 
Freshmen Council. The meeting will 
be at 7:30 in the Student Govern· 
ment office in the Regina Hall base­
ment. 
Nominations will be accepted 
from Wednesday, Oct. 6 through 
midnight Saturday, Oct. 9. 
Campaigning will go from I 1 p.m. 
on Sunday, Oct. 10 until midnight on 
Wednesday, Oct. 13. Balloting will 
take place on Thursday, Oct. 14 in all 
dorm lobbies from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. 
If there are any questions concerning the meeting or elec· tions, call Monica Gugle at 284-50 I"" after 4:30p.m. 

....--~---~-----·--­
------~----------~-----~·-----~·~~~-----~--~-------------------------­
The Observer Tuesday, October 5, 1982 -page 5 
Hartzler vs. Black 
Nuclear freeze necessity argued 
By TONI RUTHERFORD 
StaffReporter 
The necessity of a nuclear freeze was the topic ofconcern in a debate last ni~t at Carroll Hall, Saint Mary's College. 
Dr. Craig Hartzler of Saint Mary's Government Department argued in favor of a nuclear freeze, while Dr. Tony Black of Saint Mary's History Department, argued against such a proposal. 
Hartzler stressed the need for a mutual global nuclear freeze. He felt that this is a time unlike any in the human past, stating that nuclear warfare is an "ecological peril, not just a human peril." 
Living in constant fear ofa nuclear 
blast causes what psychiatrists call 
"psychic numbing", according to 
Hartzler. The threat of destruction 
Reagan blames Demos for unemployment woes 
COLUMBUS, Oh. (AP) -Presi­
dent Reagan, on the campaign trail 
again, declared yesterday that infla­
tion is the cause of today's near 
record unemployment and -once 
again -he blamed it all on his 
Democratic predecessors. 
He also suggested that the nuclear freeze movement is being manip­ulated by people who want to weaken the United States. 
The president said his comments were sparked by the appearance of several hundred demonstrators where he spoke at a meeting or­ganized by five veterans' groups. 
"They were demonstrating on the behalfofa movement that has swept across our country -inspired by not the sincere, honest people who want peace, but by some who want a weakening of America, and so are 
manipulating many honest and sin­
cere people," he said. 
In the prepared portion of his 
speech. Reagan gave various reasons 
for the present joblessness, but "in 
my own view the cause is one and 
one only: inflation." 
Most economists would argue 
that nsmg unemployment has 
resulted, not from inflation itself, but 
from government policies designed 
to fight inflation by slowing 
economic growth. 
Reagan's new chief White House 
economist, MartinS. Feldstein, made 
that point at his Senate contlrmation 
hearing Sept. 22, when he said those 
"who predicted trat inflation would 
he reduced WltllQUt raising un­
employment ha\ ~.: been decisively 
proven wrong 
Since 1979, unemployment has 
been rising while inflation has been 
falling. Inflation, as measured by the 
Consumer Price Index, has receded 
from 13.3 percent in 1979 to 12.4 
percent in 1980, 8. 9 percent in 1981 
and an expected 5 percent to 6 per­
cent this year. 
Average unemployment, on the 
other hand. has been climbing ­
(It's Not Just For ffiajors Anymore!) 
Join the St. Mary's 
SOCIAL ACTION CLUB Next Me ·· ting 
from 5.8 percent in 1979 to 7.1 per­

· cent in 1980, 7.6 percent in 1981 and an estimated 9. 5 percent this year. Reagan said his administration has "brought inflation down, and inter­est rates are following." He did not say why unemploy­ment remains high -it was 9.8 percent in August -but has said in the past that unemployment figures are the last to improve when an economy comes out ofrecession. Reagan was on a campaign trip for two Republicans who are trailing their Democratic opponents in Ohio's gubernatorial and U.S. Senate races. Reagan told the veterans, ''I'm not here today to campaign," but he made a pitch anyway for Rep. Clarence "Bud" Brown, R-Ohio, who is running for governor against Democrat Richard Celeste. Reagan said Brown has been "an invaluable ally in the fight against big government in Washington." 
Regina Hall election 
•

wtnners 
Colleen Ambrose and Beth Steber were elected president and vice­president of Regina North Hall in a runoff election. 
Seventy percent of Regina North residents voted. Ambrose and Steber faced Karen Brady and Kathi Hartweger in the runoff. 
Last Thursday, residents elected Julie Harmon as secretary and Louise Berezny as treasurer. Voter turnout was 80 percent for that elec­tion. 
also lessens the number oflong-term human relationships. Hartzler believed that a nuclear freeze would "stop the arms race before the arms race stops the human race." 
Black warned that a nuclear freeze may actually bring about a nuclear war. He felt that the Soviet Union has proven that it cannot be trusted. He started his presentation with a strong history of the Soviet's treac­hery. 
Black contended that the United States position should be to "checkmate the enemy" rather than offer · them the opportunity to surpass us in arms by secret produc­tion throughout the freeze. 
Money was also an issue to Black. He felt that the money saved by ceasing production of nuclear arms would be spent on building up the United States conventional weaponry. This contradicts the 

----------------~
Wednesday Oct. 6 at 7:30p.m. in the President's Board Room LeMans Hall 
theory offered by supporters of a freeze, who claim that government spending will he lessened during a freeze. 
Hartzler held that, although the record of the Soviet Union should make us cautious, their suggestion of a reduction should make us more willing to trust them. If the Soviet would be unwilling to sign an agree­ment, then it would be ridiculous for the United States to do so, according to Hartzler. We, however, should try 
to work with them ifpossible. 
Hartzler warned that the S.A.L.T. 
treaties and the S.T.A.R.T. program 
allow for the making of some 
weapons, thus defeating the purpose 
of the freeze. He cited that it was, in 
fact, Reagan himself who called the 
S.A.L.T. treaties "fatally flawed." 
Black compared nuclear warfare to chemical warfare, which waS never used due to a balance of fear. Because nuclear warfare is such a terrible weapon, Black contended, it will not be used as long as no country has an obvious strength 
·"·""''''. 
over other countries in nuclear 

Constrnction workers portrayed here are laying thegroundwork
arms. His claim was that a freeze 

for the latest structure to be built on campus -the new Faculty
would enable some country to get 

Building. (Photo by Pete Laches) 
that edge. 

1r-----------------I 
1I 
1
I I 
1I 
I 
! I 
I 
1 
I 
I 

I ~ostenf~el·
I N I , 
I I 
II 
I
I 
I 
1I 
1 

I.---------------------.... I
I I HAVE ATASTE ON us. I I 
1 I c~~~:S~]~rri~r~et~~~~~~~~it~\:~~~~~o~~·~~~~~~~~~
send it to: General Food:> International Coffees Sample PackI I Offer. PO. Box 4051, Kankakee. Illinois 60902. 
I I 
Name_____
I I 
Address
I . 
1 

I I FREE Limit one request per custome~
I .. This offer expires December 15. 1982. 
L~--~--~~------------­
---------~--~~--~~-------J 
Viennese style, with a touch of cinnamon. 
Saor 
Deliciou~:·.~ike a chocolate after-dinner mint. 
Gratis 
Rich and chocolatey Swiss. 
Free ---~!!P~~!L 1I 
One Sample Pack with five deliciously different one-cup servings. 
Gratis 
Creamy rich, with an orange twist. 
Gratuit 9Mfu~ I 
Smooth and light, French style. 
I 
I 
I 

'&I;; 1fnma I
~-·~ ""'..,~, ~"' ~..·~· I I I 
I 

1~21.2f~a£nt I 
I
1 
I 

~l~.M~~ 1I 
I 
I.
I I 

.~~c:.cJ.I!t;. 1I 
I 
I 
I 
,.
1111
( -I I 
. 1111 ~1~., 1 I 
Q(M(IW. 1'0001 
I 1 
~Genera/FOOds I I 
Corporahon1981 
1 1
1 1
FREE..1 I 




Business & Technology_·T_ues_day,_octo_ber_s.19_s2_pag_e6 

Economic Update 
The Indiana general fund's revenue shortfall still is about S70 million for the fiscal year that beganJuly 1, despite September revenues that were close to expectations, the state's budget director says. Judith Palmer says she is estimating the fiscal­year-to-date revenue shortfall in the state's property tax replace­ment fund at n 5 million to S20 million. Miss Palmer says it's too early to predict what must be done to balance those 1982-83 budgets ifthe shortfall continues. "Until we have a few more months of revenues, it would be premature to make any determination as to 
what action will be necessary for the remainder of the fiscal year," she said. -AP 
all Street Update 
The stOCk market turned downward Monday, abrupt­ly reversing its rally of late last week as hopes dimmed for further declines in interest rates. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials, offmore than 11 points at its midsession low, closed with a 4.13 loss at 903.61. Volume on the New York Stock Exchange slowed to 55.65 million shares from 65 million on Friday. The DowJones industrials climbed ri.49 points Friday as investors anticipated a substantial decline in the money supply, and possibly a cut in the Federal Reserve's discount rate. There were about four declines for every three stocks that rose in price on the Big Board. -AP 

CONNECTICUT CLUB! OCT. BREAK BUS!! 
Sign-ups Tues. 7:30 Lafortune _ Info: call 8830 
... 

(~ 
C0
r~CF 
a..w•..­

·_:;.. 0 0 0 0 0 0 D 0 0 0 0 o-

IDlEIDc~~ 
NUCLEAR 
FREEZE 
1
• 

WEDNESDAY,OCTOBER6, 7p.m. LIBRARY AUDITORIUM Former Governor of Ohio JOHN GILLIGAN v. PROF. CHARLES RICE Professor of Law, Director of the White Center Notre Dame Law School tor Public Policy Studies, Notre Dame Law School You can't afford to miss it ! 
Picturing Hinckley's brajn 
ByKEVIN McKEAN 
Discover News Service 
In the crowded Washington, D.C., courtroom where John Hinckley Jr. sat at the defense table, Dr. Marjorie LeMay, a radiologist from Harvard, gesrured with a pointer at a screen on which was projected an image of Hinckley's brain. 
Speaking in a barely audible voice, LeMay described features of the brain that in an earlier report she had called strikingly abnormal. Those features, other witnesses would tell the jury, might be linked to schizophrenia. 
LeMay's testimony and that of other defense experts in June ap­parently set a legal precedent: Never before, the trial lawyers believed, had CT (computed tomography, or computer-enhanced X-ray) scans of a defendant's brain been used to sup­port a claim ofinsanity. 
Whether or not it was the CT scans that swayed them, the jurors evidently agreed with the defense. They found Hinckley not guilty by reason ofinsanity. 
At the same time, the testimony has focused attention on an impor­tant scientific debate over the sig­nificance, if any, of structural abnormalities in the brains of schizophrenics -people who suffer from disordered thinking, an ap­parant lack of emotion and bizarre (and, on rare occasions, violent) be­havior. 
The psychiatrists and neurologists who ordered a CT scan of John Hinckley after the assassination at­tempt were not looking for evidence of schizophrenia. They were check­ing for a brain tumor, stroke, infec­tion, or other physical defect that might have influenced his behavior. 
The first set of scans, taken at Duke University in April 1981, showed no gross irregularity. A Duke radiologis t t, Dr. Ralph Heinz, pronounced them normal. A few days later, Heinz filed an amended report saying than Hinckley's brain was probably normal but that there was a slight enlargement ofthe sulci, or creases, or its surface. 
These sulci are the convoluted folds that indent the cerebral cortex, the outer shell ofthe brain that is the seat of language, musical ability, 
critical  thought  and  other  higher  
functions.  
Other  radiologists  who  viewed  


the Hinckley scans thought the sulci appeared normal or only slightly en­larged. But LeMay and Harvard psyc­hiatrist David Bear, both of whom later testified for the defense, m t easured the sulci and concluded that they were markedly abnormaL Says Bear, It looked as if a worm had 
eaten away at the brain. 
LeMay thought the scans also 
showed a slight enlargement of the 
third ventricle, one ofthe fluid-filled 
chambers inside the brain. This was 
significant because a widened 
ventricle can indicate atrophy, or there was a 50 percent chance that a patient was suffering from schizophrenia instead of some mid­ler disorder, then finding widened sulci would -by mathematical reasoning based on Weinberger's es­timate -raise the probability of schizophrenia to 83 percent. 
If the CT scan remains an imper­fect tool for studying mental condi­tions, a more promising technology is being developed: the PETT (positron emiSSIOn transaxial tomography) scanner. Unlike the CT scanner, which reveals brain 

A positron emission transaxial tomography ( PEIT) scan image -this one ofa normal brain -records the actual metabolism of the brain. Researchers believe the PEIT scan can establish a dis­tinct pattern for particular diseases such as schizopbrenia. Even­tually PETT may be allowed inside the courtroom to help jurors decide whether or not a defendant is truly insane (DISCOVER photo by Wayne Sorce). ,.. 
shrinkage, of the brain's core. 
A number of other researchers have found widened ventricles in schizophrenics. One of them, Dr. Daniel Weinberger, at the National Institute of Mental Health, dis­covered that the schizophrenics he studied also had a higher than nor­mal rate ofwidened sulci, Hinckley's main abnormality. 
Little wonder, then, that Weinber­ger was among those called to testify for the defense. Weinberger es­timates that prematurely widened sulci occur in about 1 5 percent of schizophrenics, compared with only 2 percent to 3 percent of other people. 
Weinberger emphasizes that aCT scan by itself could never prove schizophrenia. The reason, he says, is that there is nothing specific about these CT findings. It's like looking at a shadow on a chest X-ray. It doesn't mean its pneumonia -it could be a million other things. But Bear thinks the test could still be useful. 
He says that if a doctor thought anatomy, PETT records the actual metabolism of the brain. Doctors using this technique inject a mildly radioactive, sugarlike substance into the blood stream and then make the scan. 
PETT measures the radioactive emissions from the brain and produces an image showing which regions are metabolizing the most sugar (in other words, which are the most active). 
In a st1,1dy at Brookhaven National Laboratory on Long Island, Alfred Wolf and Tibor Farkas have made PETT scans of more than 60 mental patients -including people with schizophrenia, paranoia, depression and manic depression. Each disor­der apparently affects the function­ing of the brain in a different way. According to Farkas, the lab has es­tablished a distinct pattern for each of the diseases. 
Defense attorneys say they 
rejected the idea of a PETT scan for 
Hinckley because the technology is 
too experimental. 

Applications now being accepted 
• • ., ·r 

for the position of· · 
Assistant BusiMss and Technology Editor 'fhis is apaid position. 
CallAlezat 239-&808 for details 

Co-sponsored by THE FEDERALIST SQG!ET'f ~THE OBSERVER . n 
~-----------------­
. Editorials 
Tuesday, October 5, 1982 -page 7 
When black and.White ~-~rn grey 
When I first thought about writing this ar­ticle, it was going to be one ofthose righteous, fiery pieces about Administration oppression of students and the injustices we endure. Un­fortunately, as I started looking behind the ap­pearances and sifting through the emotional hype, the nice clean lines started getting fuz­zy, and the black and white got greyer and greyer. As is usually the case, there was no easy answer. 
Robert Wack 
Both Sides 
The situation I'm referring to is the recent rash of mail from Dean Roemer to off-campus students. Ev.ery apartment at Campus View has received a letter advising moderation as to the extent of future social activities there. Several houses have received letters and have 
been subjected to the infamous directives ot the Dean of Students in response to neigbor­hood complaints oflarge parties and generally annoying behavior. Some of these directives, ('having the authority of a Univerisity regula­
. tion' ), are rather harsh. For instance, alcoholic beverages have been forbidden at one house, and another has been told its parties must end by 1:00 a.m. (shades of parietals! ). All of this taken at first glance gives the im­pression that the Administration has sudden!)· taken an intense interest in how off-campus students live their 1ives. This gives many the uneasy feeling that someone is breathing down their necks. It is common knowledge that most students move off-campus to escape the oppressive regulations of dormitory living. Once 0-C, students feel they are free to live how they pleaSe, despite what DuLac says to the contrary. Understandably, wheri the Dean of Students starts advising what kind of munchies to serve at your parties, or telling you how many people can spend the night at 

your house, people start to get nervous. 
I talked to Dean Roemer to see ifl could get a little more information. As I sat in his office, I saw my red-hot, impassioned editorial mel­ting away before my eyes. I asked him, why the sudden interest in off-campus students? He explained that, first, tbes~ types of inci­dents, although infrequent, do 'occur, and 0-C students aren't complete strangers to the · pean's office. Second, all of the letters I men­'. rioned were prompted by the inquiries and suggestions of groups outside the University. In other words, the Dean ofStudents isn't out peeking through windows looking for people breaking rules. In fact, it's probably a safe bet that the Administration is well-aware of the fact that many 0-C students smoke pot, drink to excess, and sleep together. But when people outside the University start asking for disciplinary measures because they can no longer tolerate student behavior, or letters · from city officials start appearing on Dean Roemer's desk, something must be done. So, 
what at tirst looked like the beginnings of an 0-C pogrom actually was a group of distinct, separate incidents dealt with on an individual basis. What lends the cachet of suspicion in students' minds is the fact that the events oc­curred at about the same time, and fn a few cases, dealt with the same group of in­dividuals. 
What it comes down to is this: students off­campus want to live as they please without the vaguest threat ofAdministration interferenco:e. At the same time though, the University has a responsibility of maintaining its rapport with the community, and when student lifestyles threaten this, action must be taken. Although a bit cold, the directives actually make sense. Off-campus students may feel no longer responsible to the University for how they live, but they are responsible to their neigh­bors. Simple respect for individual rights is more than enough to keep Dean Roemer from telling 0-C people how to take out the trash. 
More of status and hierarchy 
In his editorial of Sept. 27, Paul McGinn uses his attack on status and hierarchy to subt­ly advocate a pseudo-socialist regime, in which the sole incentive for individual action is the welfare of the group. He voices an array of complaints about university life, but at­tributes the single cause of each to be the hierarchical structure. His implied solution is that the structure should, ideally, be eliminated. 
Karen Miranda 
Counterpoint 
Initially, McGinn criticizes the titling sys­tem, because it involves role-playimg and makes distinctions between university presi­dents, professors, assistant professors, and stu­dents. But why shouldn't there be a distinction between "Dean" and "Squiggy"? The titles are a function of distinction, not vice-versa. 
"(he breakdown of formality which would occur with the elimination of roles and titles would also destroy much of the respect 
· deserved by those in accomplished positions. The roles people play are, after all, largely of their own choosing -a product of their own ambitions, achievements, and talent. These at­tributes would go largely unrecognized and untapped by others were it not for the structure of the meritocracy. McGinn himself claims the title Editorials Editor, a title from which I'm sure he would find some personal and communal benefits if he looked closely enough. 
Besides, the differentiation ofroles is essen­tial to our society. It is a well-documented theory that organismic functionalism where each part of the whole has its own separate purpose -is a more efficient and in­tegrated system than one in which all mem­bers ofa group are identical. McGinn seems to appeal to some bizarre utopia where we are all janitors. 
The questions of wild-fire bureaucracy and academic elitism are separate matters; they are not necessarily consequences of status and hierarchy, but rather ofover-blown pride 

arid lack of humanism on the part of those in respected positions. 
Status among students is not an institutional creation, such as tenure, but a social situation among students themselves, again a function of pride or exhibitionism. What McGinn implies with his complaint that students gain status by superficial accomplishments, is that they should be recognized by more real, in­dividual, purposeful achievements. Hence, not an elimination of statvs at. all, but merely recognition for the right reasons. 
Hierarchy functions as a tool for organizing society, giving each of us a structure in vt>hich to work and an opportunity to perform a specific, needed function. A system of such status does not make anybedy more or less human, because of higher or lower status levels -that's a human prejudice. Systems of rank meritize positions, evaluating the worth ofcertain functions in society, and encourag­ing people to t111 those positions most valued. Janitors and gardeners are needed, but doc­tors and teachers are more valued, for-they are the catalysts to an increasingly healthy and
. 

knowledgeable society. Anypoqy can be a janitor; not everybody can be a doctor. 
It is not status or hierarchy that is the root of McGinn's frustration; it is rather the lack of respect given to people in all categories. Per­haps a close approximation of McGinn's vi­sion is a Notre Dame where, regardless of position or title; we all consider ourselves stu­dents, people who learn many things from life a.nd others. This attitude would humble elitists, and boost the confidence of "underlings" when they realize that a world of all students means a world ofall professors, in which we are all simultaneously learners and teachers. · ·. '•:· _... .W . 
Ofcourse there are flsi:~s ihootk hierarchy as in any system, but that ·doesn't make the whole structure totally worthless. What we must preserve is not the equality of every position, but the equality of respect for each function in the system; for without each, the whole community would fall apart. It's just that it would fall apart faster without a univer­sity president than without a dining hall worker. 
~-.

How throats and blowoffs play the same game 
I was sitting in a business class last week when my professor gave us a little pep talk. "My main objective for giving tests is to rank the class in a normal distribution. Lo6k at the person next to \'OU. He is the one you have to beat to get the '."-" He is your competition." 
Diane Dirkers 
Campus Quips 
The "Fighting Irish" ..."This one's for the Glpper" ...Rah, rah, rah -the spirit of com­petition is what propels the University of Notre Dame to excellence. But when does the "thrill of victory" begin to overshadow the real reason we are supposed to be here -to improve ourselt•es! 
It is true to a point that comparison to the performance of others is a valuable indicator of achievment. When comparison becomes the on~}' indicator, competition is no longer 
constructive -it is downright demeaning. 
The pressure to attain a high G. P. A. on this campus is very strong -so strong, ~n fact, that manv interviewing seniors are shocked to lear~ that employers are not that interested in 
grades. 
Two "classes" of students blatantly display the adverse affects of the quest for the al­mighty "A" -the throats and the blowoffs. 
From time to time, we're all called throats for putting in an extra six or seven hours of studying for that one crucial test or paper. But the throat is one who pushes aside all other aspects of his life to concentrate solely on grades. 
Throating it out is a nice way to obtain documented proof of success. But is it worth the sacritke of oneself in those areas of per­sonal living that cannot be measured! 
Ablowoffspends his time in the bars and in front of his television set staging his protest: "I could get a -t.O as easily as the next guy," as he pops the tab on his next Old Milwaukee, "but 
. 

it's ridiculous toput out tnar much "tfort and 
•. ·'1-t '· .
give up my lite outside ofclasses. 

The blowoff is not as concerned with learn­ing as he is in "beating the system" -getting the grades without doing the work. In es­sence, he is as involved in the "grade game" as _his counterpart -the throat. The typical blowoff is only happy with "B" or "A" (if he can get it). Ifgrades were truly unimportant, a straight 2.0 average would be sufficient. Speaking from experience, I know that a 2.0 just won't do for most of us blowoffs. 
Beyond these two student categories, many professors play a role in this game as well. 
Some professors believe that all the stu­dents need a (i. P. A. boost and teach candy­coated courses with at least a guaranteed "B." Students wait in line for checkmarks to get that elective which gives them an easy "A"­even if they have no interest in the course or feel that it is worthless. 
Others like to "separate the men from the boys" and give challenging tests over material 
. that was poorly (or never) taught and place 
ambiguously worded questions on an exam to 
fool studenrs or include problems that only a 
handful will be able toattempt to assure a nor­
mal distribution ofgrades. 
In the student world, this is known as the 
tine art ofpimping. A. low score on apimp test 
is not an indicator of material learned, but of 
bad luck in guessing. 
The teachers who deserve respect are those 
who challenge the student by forcing him to 
learn or flunk. Tests and grades should be 
direct indicators ofmaterial mastery, not sym­
bols ofcompetitiveness. 
Students and faculty alike must realize the 
true meaning of the letter grade. It is only an 
indicator -not an achievement in itself, if 
you adhere to the "it's not whether you win or 
lose:it's how you play the game" philosophy. 
What counts is what you've learned. Any 
measure which distorts that is worthless and 
leads to a potentially destructive game, the 
"game for grades."' 
The Observer 
I •, til· , •: <• " .111 ll~<kj•l'ndl'lll II<"V. 'l'.l;•,·r f•uhl,,h·,\ I•\ the ,,u,lcnh ''' the
.. 
~;n,·r·.ri\ ol ~ ..,,,. D.Hllt' ,Ju I.:..1:1<! ~.url! \l.1n ·, ( <>li<'.t:<· It ,j,~, hll !H'''".Irdy 
"·t],·, t tl"' J'Oir. w' "' thl' .t.!lnu:r,:ur"':. "' t·rthn rthlrllllr•rll. The n,-v., '' rq•orr 
,.,j ·'' .l•, lll.lf<'h .u~<! .t·· .,,.,,., t:\t i1 ·•' f'""d•k I .~rtorr.d, rt'j'H''ent the opt!ll<Hl of 
.1 ::t.<l<ll:ty ,•! rfrl' J,J.f.lf:.d }l.,,,r,l ( ••.:HI~:·::: ''"'· <lj'llllllfl' ,Ill,\ lerrn' .HI' thl' \'rtW' 
"' tlwrr Jtlllwr' ( .,J,,mn 'i ·' • · .>..JJi.d·l·· 1•• .dl lJlt'fllhcr' ot the <tJilll1lunlly. JnJ 
th· ITt' elo.j'lt"•'h>ll ol ,.•t:}'".<: "i''llJOil> un ... UlljJU>. through letter>. l> en~ouBI(t'd. 
I'.O.Bo' (). '\otn·Damc 1'\ ·th'i'i(> (!19) .!.W-'i505 
Editorial Board 

Editor-in-Chief... ................Mich.ael Monk .llmwging Eclitor................Ryan Ver Berkmoe1> Executit•e News Editor......................... Kelli Flint SJIC Executit't! Editor............ Margaret fosmoe Sports Eclit(lr ................................... Chris :'l;eedles l:.'tlitoritils l:.'tlitor .............................Paul Mc(iinn Features Editor ...................................Tari Brown Phot(, F,f,tm: ...................................Rachel Blount 
Department Manage-rs 
Business Manager .......................... ..Tony ..\icll• Controller .......... ..................................Eric ~chul Advertising Manager .......................<:tui~ ( >w1:1 Production Manager ..................Maura \lurph~ Circulation Manager ..........................Ra\ ln~li1 Systems Manager ...........................Bru<.'t" <>aide• 
Founded November 3, 1 'Yo6 
--~--------~-------·--~--~ --~~------~--------­
~~()1"tS=J3==~==i=e~~~s===============================T=u=e=sd=ay='=o~ct=o=be=r=s~,1~9~82~~p=ag~e==s
By The Ohsen•er and /he Associated Press 

Fellowship ofChristian Athleteswill spon-Jon Autry and Bob Clasby will be the guests 
~1
sor an evening with former Olympic qualifier and current Saint tonight on WSND's (AM-64) Speaking of c\ports. Listeners are 
Mary's swimming coach Mark Mamula. The meeting will be held invited to call the guests at 239-6400. The show begins at I 0. -The tomorrow night at 8 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. All are invited. Observer 

· Obse~-r;er I
FCA promotes Christian fellowship among athletes and coaches in hope that this will be shared with the larger community. -The Pep Rally Committeemeeting will be held tonight 
Classijteds 1

Observer at H in room 2d of Lafortune Student Center.. -The Observer 
~~-xJ 


RIDE NEEDED TO WASHINGTON DC-­HELPII NEEDED T YOUR MIAMI AND PENN ST FOR OCTOBER BREAK CALL BREN· 
Two damsels com1ng to VISit from West TIX. BIG TIME III CALL 1627 TODAY DAN ANYTIME--WILL SHARE THE 
Virginia are IN DISTRESS~ USUAL ---7997 
NOTICES 
Why? I NEED UP TO THREE STUD TIX OR 
Well, they need two GAs to the MIAMI GAS TO ARIZONA AND PENN STATE WANTED: Responsible person to p1ck up 
game and can ·1 seem to find them WILL PAY A LOT CALL DAN 1801 profesSional couple s children fromIS YOUR HAIR GETTING IN THE WAY 
Please help . . CALL 8765 today. school 3 days/week, supervise play: ap­JOHNNY BENCH'S really close ~fnend OF YOUR STUDIES?? CALL MICHOLE 
FOR A HAIRCUT TODAY! ONLY $4 FOR px. 10 hrs/wk, 5/hr & gas; car required needs 1 or 2 GAs for MIAMI. Call Ken at

GUYS AND $6 FOR GIRLS BEST TO CALL AFTER 3 AT 7850 Need 3 or 4 GAs for ARIZONA game.
234-4620 evemngs. 8762 
Please call Tom-3360 NEED RIDE TO LITTLE ROCK ORWORD PROCESSING SYSTEM $2995 MEMPHIS for October Break. Can leave

64K Microcomputer,letter quality printer, Will trade 1 Anzona GA for erther 1 Miam1 word processing sohware, CP/M, Bas1c. GA or student ticket. Call Dave at1380. Must SWAP my two MIAMI GAs for two
as early as Wed. mght Will share driv1ng, usual Call Greg 234-2456 ARIDZONA GA·s. Please call Cra1g at 
WANTED: 2 Miam1 GA·s CALL: V1nce 8477. Need ride to Jersey Shore. near Deal or 
Call277-n20 
x3155 Monmouth County area. For October 
DESPERATLY NEED 6 ARIZ GAS break. I can leave on Thursday. Oct. 21. 
Need 1 STU TICK and 2 GAs for MIAMI CALL ROB 6827 Please call4624~ 

PLEASE HELP!! CALL 289-9304 HELP!!! Will trade 2 30 yard line Miami GA HERPES FACTS booklet $2 Box 4682, NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S. NAME YOUR tickets for 2 Penn State GAs (willing to
Need JUST ONE Stud MIAMI TIK Call 
Steve8670

So Bend, IN 46634 PRICE. CALL 3242 deal) or will pay b1g $ s if no trade!lf Call 
Marg1e at 4416. NEED A RIDE TO BUFFALO OVER WANTED: 4 GAs for Penn Slate game. 
Need ride to Dayton or Cincinnati Oct 8 
Claire 284-4379 

FALL BREAK--WILL PAY CALL ROB Will pay big bucks. Call collect, Steve Need 1 Stud Tix or 1 GA Tix for Miami. 
6721 Longley at312-565-5959, ext. 2081. Please call Mary 8067 Ride. needed for 2 to Connecticut tor Fall 
Break. Will share usual Call Matt--3267. 

Attn. Democratic Soc1alis<s: Doift forget Need 4 MIAMI TIX. Call Jasper at 232-GIRLFRIEND WONT HAVE FUN 
meet1ng tomghl. 7:30 -342~ O'Shag. Ac­7017 DURING VISIT , UNLESS SHE GETS A RIDE needed for TWO to MPLS/ST STUD. TICKET TO ARIZONA GAME.
tion Will be dec1ded~ All Welcom~! ..... ... ................. . Desperately needed 2 MIAMI GA~s Will CALL PHIL.AFTER 6:00. 277-0249.
PAUL area for OCTOBER break. for oc­tober break Will pay usual Call Phil or

Expenenced Typist WILL DO TYPING pay mega$$ Call Randy 7982 
Louat8760. 
Need MIAMitix-Please call1738 


NEED ONLY ONE GA to MIAMI game!Wanted: A Ride to Golden, Colorado for REASONABLE RATES-CALL 287-5162 
GOOD$$! Dave 8296 I need MIAMI lies so BAD that it IS UN­Break. Call Mike at 8435 REAL !! call John 3460 (std or GA) NEED MIAMI TIX call Tom 1173$$ 
MARKETING COORDINATORS
LOST/FOUND 
Need M1ami 11x Call Jim at 1654 NEEDED: Position 1nvvolves marketing 
I HAVE TWO STUDENT TICKETS FOR and promot1ng h1gh qual1ty ski and beach MIAMI!! I need 3GA s forthesarne game NEED 1 MIAMI GA-Iitlle bros 1st 
trips on campus. Earn commiSSIOn plus

LOST: PINK PLAID UMBRELLA OF Will trade for them and make up the dif­game!CALLCHIP3137 
FREE TRAVEL. Call Summit tours, 800­WOODEN HANDLE AND LEATHER 325-0439 chance to get student tix. Call Jim at NEED MIAMI GA TIXSI PETE 232-1466 GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE ference in cash Th1s may be your last 
CARRYING STRAP. CALL MOAT 4076 x1073 
RICH ALUMNUS WILL PAY ANY PRICE 
FOR SALE: 2 M1am1 and 2 Anzona 11x. FOR MIAMI TICKETS. CALL DANIEL R PLEASE 1!!! 
NEED TWO TICKETS FOR MIAMI:G A Call233-2163 or 234-5778 (617) 492-8400. 

LOST~ 10 bracelet of great sent1mental OR STUDENT;CALL 1247,ASK FOR value. engraved w1th Bndgel If found PATORJ PAULGETTY NEED 1 MIAMI GACall3137 
HELP! IS ANYONE GOING TOplease call232-5208. 
SYRACUSE FOR FALL BREAK? I NEED 
INEED TICKETS FOR THE MIAMI 1 stu Ariz ticket for sale. Call1813 A RIDE AND WtU HELP SHARE GAS

Re: Lost Umbrella, I screwed up!!! If you GAME. CALL 277-1709 
ETC. PLEASE CALL CHRIS AT 2703 

have found a pmk plaid umbrella. call me For Sale 8 M1am1 GAs Call Dave 3673 at 4670! (ask for Mo) P S~ No, lm not a NEED 2 GAS FOR MIAMI CALL KATHY fresh. JUSt a a1rhead AT 1833 Sale me your M1am1 GAs Call Dave 3673 
NEED RIDE OR RIDERS TO TAM PA-ST PETE AREA FOR BREAKCALL NANCY 3397

FOUND: Calculator on 9/30 Call Janet FOR SALE: 2 ARIZONA STUDENT TIX 4571 and 1dent1fy 35 DOLLARS OR BEST OFFER CALL I Need 2 Student 11ckets for the Miami Wanted: Miami GA's. Call287-3538. 
SCOTTII60 game , Call Jeff at 6710 LOST. Pa~r of lad1es glasses. plast1c 
Need GAs to M1ami. Anzona or Penn St.

brown frames w1th tint of apncot Please PENN STATE TICKETS needed for NEED MANY G A s for M1am1, call T1m at 
Call5268 (SMC)

call 239-7164 (Kathy) parents. Call 4624 289-7640 
Wanted: R1de to lndpls. on Fn. ahernoon

STILL LOST: NEED: 2 GA·s Any Home Game KEN for sale .1 m1am1 t1c 239-7139 
Oct 8. Call Heather (SMC) 5515 or Tern

Large bull 1722 
(SMC) 4127 

Answers to the name of Bevo Call 8765 NEED 4 GAs FOR MIAMI CALL DAVE 
to prov1de Information NEED 2-4 GAs M1am1 KEN 1722 277-0955 need nde to detro1t area or e lansmg for
(You know who you are.) 
oct 8. please call mary at smc. 284-5314 NEED 2 MIAMI STUDENT TICKETS! I NEED 2 GAs FOR MIAMI $$$$$ 

CALL MICHELLE 3793 CALLSOYVIN AT 1603 LOST 1 MANILA FOLDER LABELED GERMAN CALL TOM 8711 NEED 1 student M1am1 TICket call Paul NEED 4 ARIZONA GAS SMITTY 1075 
6829 FOUND. ONE RIPPED AND TORN GREEN & WHITE CHECKED Need two GA·s for any rema1n1ng home 
FOR SALE 
NEED I MIAMI GA WILL PAY TOP DOL­

NIGHTGOWN WITH THE MONOGRAM game. Will pay cash mQney Call Dan at WORD PROCESSING SYSTEM, $2995 
LAR CALL MIKE 1770 JFC. WILL THE OWNER PLEASE COME 234-9580 
64K Microcomputer, letter qual1ty pnnter, TO THE 14TH FLOOR OF GRACE AND NEEDED 1 STUDENT TIX FOR MIAMI ·word process1ng sohware, CP/M, Basic.

IDENTIFY THE REMAINS? Desperately need 2 Penn State GAs for Call 277-7720 GOOD$$ MARK 1605 
Moms b-day Call L1nda 4412 LOST. KEY CHAIN ·AIR FRANCE 
two M1am111cs (GA) for sale. Best offer by Need 2 GAs or Student t1x tor M1am1 

WITH TWO KEYS ON IT MAYBE LOST PLEASE SELL US 2 GAs FOR MIAMI! 
game Call John 8362 2:00 on Wednesday Call Enc at8686

IN SENIOR BAR IF FOUND PLEASE WILL PAY$$$$! Call Tern at277-4820 or CALL FRANCOIS AT 6818 . Nadine at1302 · 
73 Tnumph TR6, excellent condition. Need 1-4 GAs for Miam1 game Wllrade

$3495 or best offer. Call233-5727. student tic and/or cash. Call Ang1e 1284 JECT WHICH RESEMBLES A DILLON FLAG. WHERE IS IT? THE ANSWER 
, .TRADE:! HAVE 4 MIAMI GAs-WILL 
FOUND-ONE LARGE RED NYLON OB­HELP! I need 2 M1am1 GAs Laura 4432 NEED 2 MIAMI GAS CALL STEVE MY FRIEND IS BLOWING IN THE WIND! . T-RADE FOR 4 ARIZONA GAs. CALL 1796
x3669 LOST LADIES GOLD WATCH ON 
NEED 4 ARIZONA & 6 PENN ST• GAS. 

FRIDAY NIGHT AT GUISEPPE S. IF NEED 3 MIAMI GAs CALL RICH AT 277­CALL WOZZAT 1850. 
FOUND PLEASE CALL x4310 SMC 1650 EVENINGS need 2 GA's for ARIZONA game. call Lauren (srl'lc) 5072 HELP! MARCHING BAND MEMBER FOR SALE: 2 MARRIED STUDENT NEEDS TWO MIAMI TIX FOR FAMILY SEASON TIX CALL 1-784-8204 HEV-all you crazy w1ld people out there I! I CALL RON AT 3403 EVENINGS 
need Tickers and w111 pay you all the money I have for 2 Penn St GA's Make a I NEED 2 GAS AND 2 STUDENT TIX really sweet girl as happy as a clam at FOR ARIZONA CALL JACK-x8876 
FOR RENT 

I NEED MIAMI G.A.sl!! DAVE 1773 Furnished home 2 blocks from campus 
h1gh llde, call very nch cindy at 2948 

also country house 10 m1ns. from N.D. NOW Need 2 GAs for M1ami ~ame Call Randy NEED 1 MIAMI GA FOR LITTLE SIS Call 277-3604 or 288-0955 at3349 CALL PAUL 8362 YO! I need 4tlckets for Penn State. Bruno CABINS FOR RENT -45 m1nutes from and the rest of the Mob from Philly will do I need Miam1 lix 3 stud 2 G.A. Please call 2 MIAMI GA. 35 YO L , Best Offer, CALL 
me 1n if I don 1 get them Money is no 2826, 10:00 PM 

problem. Call Fran 4385 FURNISHED 5 ROOM APT-3 FRIEND­Need 1 Miami T1c Al1595 NEED 2-3 G.A S FOR MIAMI PLEASE LY FEMALES, NEED 4TH. RENT NOW­CALL TEAl AT 277-1585 
XMAS CALL LIZ X4263. THERE ONCE WAS A GIRL FROM N. D. 
WHOSE PHONE WAS 7983 SHE HELP!! MIAMI GAT DESP.ERATEL'( N6ED 2 MIAMI GA's Call J1m a1'3342 WAN-:-EO: FEMALE ROOMMATE for NEEDED GA'S SO HELL WOULDN'T NEEDED (3) $$$CALL KEVIN at1580 N 0 ,.>TS thru X-mas. $90/mth~ x11!13 RAISE FOR THE GAME VERSUS ..l.. I DESPERATELY NEED GAS FOR THE 
t 
MIAMI-EE (had to make '' rhyme. you I have two MIAMit1ckets to sell Only the MIAMI GAME PLEASE CALL BILL AT TWO APTS in one house for rent: each know--~iane WILL pay big ~ucks. the "ch need call. 'Phone 283-1745. ' 8922 has Lf'l KT, BR: front porch: 1651175 (OR parental units are very weallhy!)_· 320 for whole house) & utilities; 718 E. DESPERATE FOR 2 MIAMi 'i3.A:..1ic:K: · I HAVE MIAMI GAs. I WANT MIAMI & Colfax, 234-4620 evemngs. WILL PAY BIG MONEY FOR 4 PENN ETS. WILL PAY m CALL MIKE AT PENN ST STUDENT TIX WILL BUY. 
STATE GA TIX. CALL 312·565-5959 1475. SELL, OR TRADE CALL ROGER AT Notre Dame~ 616-424-5817. Joe8269 

COLLECT AND ASK FOR STEVE 3637 LONGLEY. NEED 2 MIAMI & · 2 ARIZONA GAs,$.CALL DAN 239-6264 or 287-7594 NEED THREE GA TICKETS FOR MIAMI 
WANTED 

Need mega-bad JUSI ONE ARIZ IICkel for' CALL PAT 277-1836 HEY! I NEED MoM (first NO game since 1961) Call THREE GA TICKETS FOR MIAMI Conn1e at 4311 . HELP!! HELP!! HELP!! NEED TWO RIDE NEEDED TO THE NEW YORK 


MIAMI GAS. CALL 233-5938 FOR JIM $$$$DESPERATE$!!$$ NEED 4 TIX TO CITY FOR OCTOBER BREAK----WiLL ! NEED 2 MIAMI TICKETS AND 1 PENN MIAMI OR ARIZONA STUD OR GA LEAVE WHENEVER AND WILL SHARE STATE, PLEASE CALL CINDY AT 7092 CALL THESMCCHICAT5456ANDASK THE USUAL CAJ,.L CHRIS AT x3510 OR 
NEED MIAMI and' ARiZONA GA S Call FOR PATTY EVEN IF YOU ONLY HAVE x8S73 ANYTIME Need 4 Miam1 GA's Call1225 John at1580 I need as many as possible 1 
Classifieds 
The Observer w1ll accept class1f1eds Mon­day through Fnday. 10 a.m~ to 4 30 p m However. classtfleds to appear 1n the next tssue must be rece1ved by 3 p.m. the bustness day pnor to 1nsertton All classtfieds must be prepatd. etther tn person or through the mall 
WILL TRADE 2 MIAMI GAS FOR 
ARIZONA GAS. CALL GARY 4586 
NEED 4 MIAMI GAS. CHRIS-1730 
HELP!! DESPARATELY NEED 2 OR 4 ARIZONA GAS. FAMILY WILL SACRIFICE ME IF I DONT GET ANY CALL MATT at 1489 
I NEED 1 STUDENT TICKET FOR MIAMI FOR MY CRAZY LITTLE SISTER CALL 
ANN 1292. 
I WILL PAY $50.00 FOR 2 MIAMI GA'S CALL MARY BETH x7956 
6 M1am1 Gas for sale. Call SMC 4421 
PERSONALS 
Joe& Ed: 
Just because I fell for your con game 
doesn t mean that I won I get what is due 
to me. (I should say 4 p.m. Wednesday 
but those soundwaves m1ghl still be 
bounc1ng in your bra1ns.) I'll see 
somet1me after the stampede clears 
Your favonte ed1tor 
connecticut club bus lor oct break! signupaln LaFortune lobby Tues. 10/5 at 7:30pm. Stopping 1n NYC.Fa1rf1eld,Harttord Cost: 80.bucks lor info call 8830 
OKTOBERFEST 
THURS~ THE 7TH AT SMC 
Rollerskateon campus!!!3 hrs. $3.50 at 
Angela 4-7 p.m 
Sound of Mus1c 7 p m. Carrol Hall (also 
shown Oct. 6) 
Beer Garden!!! 8-11 :30 p.m Featunng 
the No Problem Band. (For under 21. 
Mus1c, food, good company) 
ATTENTION LONG ISLANDERS SIGN­UPS FOR THE OCTOBER BREAK BUS WILL BE THUSDAY. OCTOBER 7. 7:00, LAFORTUNE LITTLE THEATRE. FULL AMOUNT DUE FIRST COME, FIRST 
SERVED~ 
PITTSBURGH CLUB FALL BREAK BUS SIGN-UPS, THURS OCT 7 6:30pm. LAFORTUNE LITTLE THEATER BE PROMPT. Round trip $45 00, One way $29 00 Payment must be made 1n full at 11me of reservat1on NO REFUNDS 
PAT CARVAJAL You sure do took hke a Freshman!!! 
As easy as ABsC: PW 7, Farley 6 West IS best! Great ;ob team, great ;ob tans ROLL WEST ROLL!! 
DEAR MOE, 
I LEARNED NEVER TO GIVE YOUR 
CAR KEYS TO YOUR ROOMIE AND 
YOUR HAND TO A FRIEND UNLESS 
YOU RE OUT TO HAVE A GREAT TIME 
THANKS FOR EVERYTHING. 
LOVE. 
YOUR FRIEND FROM HARVARD 
TO EVERYONE WHO MADE MY 19TH EXTRA SPECIAL, ESPECIALLY KATHY THANKS! THE PARTY WAS GREAT!!!-TERESA 
To the ladles(?) of Cabin 3. 
Thank you for an eye openmg ex­penance th1s weekend! Where else could we have seen a glfl d1pped in honey and rolled in leaves! 
BOSTON OCTOBER BUS SIGNUP 1s THURS. Oct. 7, 7-8p.m 1n LAFORTUNE Round tnp IS $11 0. $50 NON REFUND DEPOSIT REQUIRED BUS leaves NO on the 22nd and leaves Boston on the 
'30th Payment in full encouraged. 
BOSTON BUS SIGNUP Thurs 7-8 Lafortune $50 deposit reqwed 
EAST COAST TAILGATER IS COMING SATURDAY on GREENFIELD ALL THOSE FROM MASSACHUSETTS MUST BE THERE! 
·NEW WAVERS PUNK ROCKERS RAS­TAMEN Be the f~rst on your block to JOin NOs f~rsl New Wave Club. The Club w1th the MODERN BEAT FOR MODERN FEET. S1gn ups Wed. at 8:30 1n 2D of the LaFourtne center BOP TIL YOU DROP 
What s the buzz Tom, you look k1nd of down Is 11 because JoJo s no longer around? I ve heard the term sleep around But does that mean by yourself 1n another town? Steal1ng mugs from a bar --come on get a clue_ Hope you have better luck at the Who We won I be there to filler what you say. Somehow I think we JUSt made your day' P S Stev~. MAB sends her love from · France!!! M and M 
SAN FRANCISCO CLUB: I m1ssed the meet1ng--please let me know what s up 
Thanks, Mane 277-0487  
MARK, Sorry the subscnpt1on through, but thanks for the r d1dn t ose  come Mary  
th1ngs you Will never hear; I like Mechan1cs  

marty andjimbo 
I like Cheg 
brian 
I likeOrgo 
rob 
I like U93 
lloyd 
Italian IS a challenge 
giuseppe 
Columbus Club Mrxer A her the Game Call Jamie K1mmel for detailS~­
HAMSTER, HAVE FUN LAST WEEKEND? HOWS O.P. AND BIG A? I MISSED YOU. N 0 ·s NOT THE BIG CITY BUT HOW BOUT THIS WEEKEND? JELLYBEAN 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY KIRK J. FLITTIE The last of the Tan masters comes of age II s t1me to slap some Jack on your back so the ceremonies of the sun may com­mence. You·ve all heard about it. you·ve dreamt about it, now expenence 1t ... the ntuals of the Tanmasters are here! 
ML Roadrunner! Saturday!! Where were you? Where was I? Th1s Saturday. THE T a1lgater Be there Bring TV! 
RSVP 
LISA, TROZ. MUNCHKIN, TROZLO A Little LATE BUT HOPE YOUR BIRTHDAY WAS A HAPPY ONE GET US TO EUROPE QUICK IM READY WHEN YOU ARE J ESPAIRE QUE L ANNEE PROCHAINE LE VINGTIEME SOIT BONNE POUR TOI. TON AMIE QUI HABITE PRES DE TOI ET QUI TRAVAILLE POUR SA VIE 
Hey Greg When are you go1ng to stop playmg scared and come into the nng w1th us? Marty andJ1m 
FRANK WHITE IS offiCially and personal­ty 1nv1ted to the Walsh football game tomght at6:30 GO WALSH-BEAT BPI! 
a person once sa1d ·LA by 5 only to gag on h1s words wh1le watchmg a 7th ·mn HR drop over the fence at SF thank you Reds for sweep1ng LA 1n 2, thank you SF for bemg the spo1ler, thank you Braves for wmnmg 1 more game than LA may LA learn not to stnke out With the bases loaded & may Tommy Lasorda and h1s son Fernando breathe smog & lose some we1ght wh1le watch1ng the playoffs on tv say whatever you hke-but no matter what you say-the NL West D1v. CHAMPS are the Atlanta Braves-HOW SWEET IT IS! 
LOOK OUT, ST. LOUIS! Many visitors from the East are anxiously awaiting your victory In the divisional playoffs so that they may cheer the Cardinals on in the World Series. Beware espe­cially of John Lewandowski, who bleeds Cardinal red and white, and Rachel Blount, who bleeds Royal blue 
and white but will adopt the Birds as her NL team lor the Series. But the REAL danger lies with JEFF JEFFERS, who is sure to be closing your Ramada Inns each night. May your bats have cork centers and may your fences be short -and may you sweep the Braves and invade Milwaukee lor the real thing next week!I 
To the Two Backseat Drunks· You should hear how we talk you! 
Sheeba, Cau. Oebb1e. and M1ke. What a surpnse' Thanks tor the GREAT weekend 
your REAL nurse 
To Tom-
The greatest womamzer of D1llon! Have 
a Great 18th! Love Kathleen, Mo. Jack1e P S Yo B-Day Present IS on the way! (Tylenol) So live 1t·up' 
~ath~-I remembe(ed ! Wa1t 11~ Saturday. 
& show yer SIS the paper !I 


The Obsen:er Tuesday, October 5, 1982 -page 9 
As if anybody cares. • • 
·---------------------------------------,
Got a beef? I thomas ffiOR€ SOCIEXY or n.o. 
I

I lnvJt€S you to a l€ctUR€: 
Tell us! I 
I 

We accept letters i The Family: Womb of~Society to the sports h'ditor, I I 
I sy rR. O'ConnoR, esc, U1€oloqy 0€pt.
I .
P.O.lJoxQ 
I 8:15-9:15 pm Room 115 O'Shag 
...............................................................,. 
~---------------------------------------J

8 UNITED WAY at N.D. Participation Chart~~~~:::~ 
·~ RATIO IS NO. OF STUDENTS CONTRIBUTING $2.00 or MORE DIVIDED BY TOTAL NO. OF STUDENTS 
0
0 

0 10 2030.:aD50Ei07DB0901DODfo 

I was looking through my files yesterday, and came upon one called "Stories to be written." Herewith are the contents thereof: 
I like Ted Turner. 
Don't ask me why. He's arrogant, and egotistical, and can be more Steinbrennerish than the man himseli But I still like him. And I'm glad the Braves made the playoffs. 
Turner is the kind ofguy who knows what he wants, and is not afraid to go out and get it. He wanted to win the America Cup -and he did. He thought he could take on the TV networks and beat them at their own game -and it worked. He figured he could manage the Braves better than anyone else -and he tried it. Bowie Kuhn made him stop. Which may be the real reason I like Ted Turner. How can you dislike anyone who gets under Bowie Kuhn's skin? 
So, I'mglad Ted Turner and the Braves won the West. 
Cub fans should be glad the Braves made it, too. Now, 
if you can figure out why, it shows just how much of a 
Cub fan you really are. Ifyou can't figure out why, then 
this is a good trick for getting you to read the rest ofthis 
column -because I'm not going to give the answer 
untillater. , 
I don't know if anybody cares, but National Hockey 
League exhibition games have been going on for a 
couple ofweeks. 
Speaking of baseball, which we were a minute ago, I 
think Ralph Houk should be Manager ofthe Year. Quiet 
down, there, you Harvey Kuenn fans in the back. Ralph 
took a team that just didn't have the starting pitching to 
be a contender, and kept them in the race until the final 
two weeks of the season. He did a masterful job han· 
dling his bullpen, but the lack of a single pitcher who 
could go seven strong innings consistently finally did 
the Red Sox in. 
Besides, just think where Harvey would have been if 
those ex-Red Sox players-Cecil Cooper, Ben Oglivie, 
and Rollie Fingers (OK, maybe I stretch things a little) 
-had stayed in Beantown. 
I don't know if anybody cares, but Quintin Dailey finally signed a contrac't with the Chicago Bulls this week. 
On the subject ofbaseball -and the Red Sox -again where would the Angels be without Fred Lynn and Don Aase? Where would they have been with Rick Burleson? 
.............................................................. 


And what would have happened to this year's races if Boston had sent Lynn to the Dodgers for Steve Howe, Bob Welsh, and Mickey Hatcher -as originally planned? Instead, the Red Sox got Frank ("Everybody needs a good 6-14 starter who makes $400,000 a year") Tanana and Joe Rudi from the Angels. 
1don't know if anybody cares, but the two people in the picture won the men's and women's division ofthe Mr. America contest in New York last weekend. 
Why would any woman want to win theMr. America contest? 
By the way, not only did Cory Everson win the women's title, but she and her husband took the mixed pairs award. But, that's Lee Haney kneeling down, not Cory's husband. 
More baseball. Why are so many Orioles fans glad to be rid ofEarl Weaver? All the guy did was win at least 90 games in 12 of the last 14 seasons. 
Did it seem a little suspicious to you that Keith Jack­son and Howard Cosell kept mentioning that Earl had a great future ahead in broadcasting? Well, maybe it won't seem so strange when you hear that he's signed to do the playoffs, beginning tonight for ... 
May I have a drum-roll, please? 
... ABC Sports!! 
I don't know ifanybody cares, but Howard and Keith said "There's no tomorrow," 38 times -by unofficial tally -during Sunday's game. 
OK, Cub fans -here it is. 
In 1969, our Cubbies choked down the pennant in the stretch to the New York Mets. Then, in the first-ever divisional playoffs, the Mets topped the Atlanta Braves to get to the World Series. 

Obviously, the Cubs got no revenge this season. So, for all you true die-hards, at least the Braves have made a comeback, albeit 13 years later. ,­
Come to think of it, maybe that file was labelled "Stories not worth writing." 


----------· --·------­

The Observer Tuesday, October 5, 1982 -page 10 
Angels, Brew-ers open 
A.L. championship 

team, led the major leagues in run~ scored with H91 and homers with 
216. The Angels, who batted .274, were second in both departments with 814 and 186, respectively. 
The teams split the 12 games they played against each other this year. 
"It's evenly matched," said California Manager Gene Mauch, whose club clinched the AL west on Saturday. "As long as we play our game, it doesn't make any difference who we play. We're very com­fortable: with the way we're playing and with the way we're pitching" 
Mauch announced his pitching plans for the first three games Sun­day. TommyJohn, 4-2 for the Angels after being acquired from the New York Yankees on Aug. 31 and 14-12 overall, will pitch the opener for California 
Right-hander Bruce K.isn 10-5, will start Game Two at Anaheim Stadium tomorrow night and left­bander Geoff Zahn, 18-8, will go in Game Three at Milwaukee on Friday. 
The Brewers are expected to start right-hander Pete Vuckovich, 18-6, in the opener, left-bander Mike Caldwell, 17-13, in Game Two and right-hander Don Sutton, 4-1 since being acquired from Houston at the end ofAugust, in Game Three. 
John scattered eight hits and allowed two unearned runs in a 5-2 victory by the Angels over the Brewers on Sept. .3, the first game the .39-year-old veteran pitched for California. Vuckovich was .3-0 against the Angels this season. 
The Brewers haven't won a divi­sion title since they were born as the Seattle Pilots . in 1969. The club moved to Milwaukee in 1970. 
The only time the Brewer~ have taken part in a playoff situation wa~ last year, when in a strike-shortened season, they won the AL east's second-halftitle before losing to the New York Yankees in a best-of-five series to determine the division win­ner. 
The Angels have won just one championship in their 22-year his­tory, the 1979 AL west title. They were beaten by Baltimore in the League Championship Series. 
Neither the Brewers, arriving late Sunday night, nor the Angels practiced Monday. 
Knuckleballer Phil Niekro of At­lanta is on a roll, but the St. Louis Cardinals are grateful to be con­fronting him instead of the Los An­geles Dodgers. 
"It's not that the Braves have bad starting pitching," said infielder Mike Ramsey in sizing up the team for which Niekro will pitch in the Wednesday opener to the National League's championship series. "But you've seen what kind of trouble (Fernando) Valenzuela and (Jerry) Reuss give us." 
The 17-4 record ofthe 4 3 year-old Niekro aside, the Cards say they fel more comfortable against Atlanta's staff heading into the best-of-five NL playoff. 
"I just think we play better against the Braves," said St. Louis outfielder Lonnie Smith. "Their pitchers are more a mixture of breaking-ball pitchers instead of fastball pitchers like the Dodgers.·· 
Niekro, who stood 1-0 this year and is 1S-1' lifetime against the Cards, will carry a: string of 26 2-3 innings without allowing an earned run into the opener. 
rrl;J:-1 
: 531 N.;;higan St..  I  
South Bend  ~  
Phone 133·4957  I ,,  

open the American League Championship Series. See story at right.(APPhoto). 

ByJOHN NADEL 
and PAUL LEBAR 
The Associated Press 
Neither the Milwaukee Brewers nor the California Angels have had much experience in playoff situa­tions. But one of them is going to represent the American League in the World Series later this month. 
And if statistics can be trusted, there should be a bit of offensive fireworks when the clubs square off in the best-of-five AL championship Series, which opens tonight at Anaheim Stadium. 
"We have great power, they have great power," said Milwaukee Manager Harvey Kuenn. after the Brewers trounced Baltimore 10-2 Sunday to win the AL east title by one game over the Orioles. "We hit for average and they hit for average. There's going to be a lot of runs scored." 
The Brewers, who hit .279 as a 
J: --.. ' 

W JUST AFEWOFTHf NAM On 't MlSS OU 
rfil~j;~~int)~efli!~~ 
Athletic Footwear 
Over 2,000 pr. in stock 

-~Tennis .._...............-~.-.· Racquetball 
ND
TUBE SOCKS 


lbe~~===================================== 
~~4()l~~==========================~=T=u=es=d=a=y=,O==ct=o=b=e=r=5=,1=9=8=2===p=a=g=e=l==l 




Doonesbury 


YE.f>. "OfFICIAl':> 'Rt'bRTED EKT Ecr-1 · 
'SIV£ CRoP mMAGF '' 
Nobody's Prefect 
The Daily Crossword 
© 1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
ACROSS 31 Macbeth's Racing title distance 32 Entree 
5 Enraged item 10 Section 33 Medicinal 14 Kind of amount 
school: 34 Roman abbr. bronze 15 Zola girl 35 Practical 
and others person 16 Tune 38 Regret 17 Finance 39 Eye part 
feature 41 Appearance 20 News output 42-Lee 21 Doctrinal Masters 
dissent 44 Fix a 22 Stygian racket 23 Encaged 46 Gazelles 24 Moe or 47 Top·notch 
Curly 48 Otherwise 27 Dinner 49 Seed pods feature 52 Nest sites 
Monday's Solution 
Garry Trudeau 

Campus 
• 
3 p.m. -Meeting of the Academic Council, Rooms 100-104 CCE 

•4 
p.m. -Field Hockey, ND Women vs. Goshen College, Alumni Field 

•4:
15 p.m. -Lecture, "The Origins of Democracy: Reflections on the Chilean Case", Prof. Arturo Valenzuela , Duke University, Sponsored by Helen Kellog Institute·and Dept. of Government Room 110 Law School 

•7 
p.m. -Film, "Little Big Man", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Progam in American Studies, Sl.OO 

•7:30 
p.m. -Ladies of Notre Dame Tea, "Opening Tea to Welcome Newcomers", Pent­


Jeb Cashin 

house, Memorial Library 
•7:30 p.m. It' IT'~ GOINEs UP I 
-Film, "The River", Annenberg -Snite
~AY~ 0\.INE~E EcbNc.MtSTS. 

Auditorium, Sponsored by Program of Liberal Studies, SI.OO 
•8, 
and 10 p.m. -Film, "High Noon", with a "Little Rascals" short film, Chautuaqua . Cof­feehouse, Sponsored by Student Union, S 1.00 

•8 
p.m. -Slide Show, Cycling through Europe, Kevin Shortelle, LaFortune Little Theatre 

•10 
p.m. -Call-in Talk Show, Speaking of Sports, Will Hare, WSND-AM 64, Sponsored by WSND-AM64, 


, T.V. Tonight 
K.C. Ryan 

6p.m. 16 22 28 34 
7p.m. 16 22 28 
34 
8P.M. 16 22 
34 9p.m. 34
56 Purchaser's 19 Landlord's privilege due 

10p.m. 16
58 Landed 23 Unadorned 

22
59 Early 24 Steps 

28
explorer 25 At that 

34
60 Pudding point 

t0:30p.m. 16
type 26 Desert 

22
61 Combustible green spot pile 27 Biblical 

28 
34
62 January, patriarch 

llp.m. 28
in Madrid 28 Copy 

11:30 16
63 Winter illegally cover 29 Customary 30 Villain's 

' 
DOWN looks 1 Only 32 Orono's tan
Br• 
2 "-Three state Lives" 36 Natural 
3 Son of elevation Jacob 37 More 4 Angeror succinct ·fear 40 Law 5 Petition 43 Calorie 
tor help counters 6 Pluvial 45 Jungle 7 Miller and sound 
Blyth 46 Oneot the 8 Child's Furies game 48 Baseball 9 Reversions misplay 
ot property 49 Snare to the 50 Snakelike state 51 Recipe word 
10 Warned 52 Soliloquy 11 Travel phrase 12 Yale 53 Norsegod students 54 Trillionth: 13 Lawyer: comb. torm abbr. 55 Fret 18 57 Enthusiast 

NewsCenter 16 22 Eyewitness News Newswatch 28 The MacNeiVLehrer Repon 
M0A0S0 H0 
Family Feud Tic Tac Dough Straight Talk Father Murphy Bring Em Back Alive Baseball Championship Series: AL 
Jr; 

East at AI West Game 1 National Geographic Movie: "Hard Country" CBS Special Tuesday Night Movie: "Bare Essence" Mystery League of Women Voters Congres­sional Debates: Election '82 NewsCenter 16 22 Eyewitness News Newswatch 28 Dick Cavett Show Tonight Show Quincy and McMillan & Wife ABC News Nightline Captioned ABC News Fantasy Island Late Night with David Letterman 
The saga of a 6 month old domer. 

---~--~-­
Tuesday, October 5, 1982-page 12
SRorts 
Two interceptions 

Brown overcomes old imag~s 

By STEVEN lABATE 
Sports Writer 
As players and <;oaches in Miami, Fla., Pittsburgh, Pa., University Park, Pa., and Los Angeles, Calif., studied Sunday morning's sports pages, it would come as no surprise if by some chance they winced when they saw Notre Dame's defensive statistics. 
Yes Dan Marino, Todd Blackledge, and other future opposing quarter­backs, the Notre Dame pass defense is tor real. Up until Saturday's I 1-3 win against Michigan State, the secondary was a question mark. 
But after the game, all the ques­tions had been answered. 
Stellar performances were turned in by all the defensive backs, but un­doubtedly weakside cornerback Chris Brown's was the best. Perhaps the best measure of a defensive back's ability is determined by the frequency with which the opposing quarterback throws into his area. 
So far this season, the ball has been 
thrown into Brown's direction very 
infrequently. His play on the weak 
side corner has provided the Irish 
with better coverage than Fireman's 
Fund Insurance. 

thwarted the toss by making his second career interception. 
In the fourth quarter, Brown's alertness resuted in another MSU turnover. "I was laying back," he reflects. "I had hit the receiver and dropped back to my zone. The quar­terback scrambled and never saw me running to cover the receiver; he only saw Duerson." Like an outfiel­der drawing a beat on a pop fly, Brown just sat back and waited for the ball to come down. 
On the almost-third interception, Brown had perhaps his easiest play of the day, but the ball slipped through his hands and went to Duer­son who returned the ball 48 yards. 
Brown attributes part of his success in the secondary to the fact that he played quarterback in high school. "I think it as helped me to a great extent," says the native of Owensboro, Ky. "I can relate to what the quarterback is thinking, and what receivers he'll go to at cer­tain times." 
However Brown is quick to note that his exceptional play and that of the secondary as a unit in Saturday's victory was due in a large part to the play of the defensive line, which to­tally shut down MSU's running game ( 19 yards net ) and harrassed the Spartan's quarterbacks all day. 
These are happier times for Chris Brown, who, like many other Irish players, experienced a lot ofturmoil last year. Brown, in particular, was blamed solely for the 1 5-14 loss to Purdue, in which he was thrust into a key role late in the game after John Krimm suffered an ankle injury. 
Brown was sent in to cover the Boilermakers' superb flanker Steve Bryant, and was beaten on both the winning touchdown and the subse­quent two-point conversion that sent the Irish reeling to their second straight defeat. Perhaps unfairly, most ofthe blame for the 1-2 record at that point fell squarely on Brown's shoulder pads. 
But all of that has changed now. After three games this year, Notre Dame is 3-0, and now that it seems that Brown and his cohorts in the defensive !>econdary have come around, opposing teams should have more and more trouble registering that first notch in the Irish loss column. 
So be forewarned, Messrs. Marino, Blackledge, et at Chris Brown refuses to be picked on anymore. 
When MSU'sJohn Leister and Rick=============================== 
Kolb did test Brown, he made them regret it by picking off two passes and narrowly missing a third (Dave Duerson grabbed it instead). 
On the first interception Brown says of the play, "It's one of their favorite plays. They sneak (Daryl) Turner behind me and the free safety on a deep post corner out." But on this particular play, Brown 

Baseball teatn places in tourney 
By NEAL SMITH 
Sports Writer 
• 
Winning two of its three games this weekend_ enabled the Notre Dame baseball team to finish second in the Bradley University Fall Baseball Tournament. After a dis­appointing 4-2 loss Saturday morn­
ing to Illinois State, the Irish defeated Bradley, I2-6, in the after­noon and V~araiso, 3-2, on Sunday. The Irish~o'W sport a 3-5 record for the fall season. 
"No doubt we should have won all three games this week." commented Coach Larry Gallo. "This (the loss to Illinois State) was the fifth time we beat ourselves this season," 
Against Illinois State pitcher Steve Whitmyer had a no-hitter and a 2-0 lead after five inning~. However, the leadoff batter in the.bottom half of the sixth singled up the middle off Whitmyer's glove, breaking up the no-hit effort. Whitmyer walked the next batter, then after retiring the next two men, he attempted to pick a runner off first base, but the throw went into r.ight field allowing one runner to score. Another run scored, tying the game, on a poor throw to the plate by the right field'er after he retrieved the ball. The damage for the inning was not over. The next batter singled and scored as the following hitter blasted a home run, making the score, 4-2. 
Despite the sixth inning "mental breakdown," Gallo was happy. "I was pleased. It was a good weekend. The players are playing like they know how to play."said Gallo. "They are improving. However, there is still a lot of room for improvement." 
In the game against Bradley, the Irish jumped out to a 4-0 lead in the top of the first on a double by Rick Chryst and a home run by designated hitter David Clark. 
Bradley tied the score in the bot­tom of the inning with three con­secutive walks and a grand slam home run offpitcher Bill Matre. 
Notre Dame opened the game up in the sixth inning with six runs. The turning point of the inning was a well executed suicide squeeze bunt by catcher Mike Doming. 
In the victory over Valparaiso, Buster Lopes pitched the first seven innings for the Irish. Tom Clements came in for Lopes with the score tied 2-2. 
Notre Dame scored the winning run in the top ofthe ninth when Val­paraiso failed to turn a double play, allowing a runner from third to score. 
"Its nice to win those one run ball games," stated Coach Gallo. The on­ly other one run game was last week's victory over the same Val­paraiso team. 
Clark was the big contributor for the Irish this weekend. His five hits in II at bats broke him out ofhis one of nine batting slump. In addition to the home run against Bradley, Clark had two doubles and four RBI's over the weekend. 
Tom Conlin also played well as he pitched in relief twice for Notre Dame. 
Leyes takes linksters to Invitational victory 
By BOB CASTELLO 
Sports Writer 
Junior Frank Leyes fi;ed a two un­der par 69 to lead the Notre Dame golf team to the team championship of the ninth annual Notre Dame Fall Invitational yesterday afternoon on the Burke Memorial Golf Course. Leyes' score also enabled him to capture the individual champion­ship. 
The Notre Dame "Gold" team finished first with a total of 3 7 3 strokes, while Tri-State University (379), and the Irish "Blue" team 
( 386) placed second and third respectively. In all, 16 teams com­peted. 
"This is the t1rst time in four years that we've won our own invitational, so this really feels good," said senior captain Stoney Ferlmann. "It was like not being able to win a home game. 
"Frank Leyes and Dave Moorman really came through for us," said Ferlmann. "Frank birdied four out of five during one stretch on the back nine." 
Junior Joe Celarek paced the 
"Blue" team with a 72 good for 
second place on the afternoon. 
Moorman and junior classmate 
Dave Pangraze each shot a 74, good 
for a third place tie, and senior Craig 
Peters and freshman John 
O'Donovan t1nished with 78's. 

Netters disappointed by tourney performance 
By DAVE STANG 
Sports Writer 
There was some success, but dis­appointment was the main word from the Milliken Tournament in Decatur, Illinois where members of the Notre Dame women's tennis team participated this weekend. It was strictly a singles tournament in which most of the results were less than pleasing. 
Freshman Mary Colligan played very well at singles against the top singles players from the other teams. She was victorious thru three matches, before losing in the finals toJoan Finder ofpast Irish opponent Southern Illinois at Edwardsville in a three set match. Notre Dame's usual No. 4 singles player, Lisa Lafratta, also played extremely well in win­ning her first three matches. Her downfall in the semifinals was Joan Finder, the girl who eventually beat Colligan for the championship. LaFratta continues to improve her new-found serve and volley game with each match. 
"The three doubles teams fielded were a disappointment," said Coach Sharon Petro. "Susie Panther and Laura Lee should have won the tournament." Instead, they had to settle for the consolation crown af­ter losing in the first round to Patty Tiddy and Laura Foederen of South­ern Illinois. Notre Dame's no. 1 team then regrouped and won their next four matches, eventually defeating SlU-E's Jan Petras and Leah Schmidt in the finals. Panther played despite a painful back which will force her to play doubles for the rest ofthe fall season, instead of her usual spot at no. 1 singles. Greta Roemer and Cathy Schnell ofthe Irish faced some very tough competition, but they played wt;ll before bowingout ii:I the second round. Notre Dame's Lisa 
Gleason and Camille Cooper went against yet another team from SlU-E when they also lost in the second round ofthe tOurney. 
Coach Petro understandably had mixed feelings about her girls' play in the tournament. "I was really impressed with the play of Colligan and LaFratta, who faced mostly the no. l and no. 2 players from the other teams," she stated. "Our tirst doubles team could have played bet­ter, and should have won the tourna­ment, but their injuries were definitely a factor."Petro was refer­ing to Panther's constant back pain, and Lee's illness, which forced her to miss Monday's practice. "It's very tough to gain momentum when we can never have full team practices:: said Petro. "The injuries have a very big impact on our play, but hopeful­ly we will be able to regroup for our invitational next week" 

Laura Lee 

The Irish Invitational, being played next Sunday and Monday, will feature Colligan, LaFratta, Cooper, and Gleason at singles, and the teams of Panther/Lee and Roemer/Schnell at doubles in a team tournament at the Courtney Tennis Courts. Before the invitational, the Irish have a rematch with DePaul University in Chicago today, and they travel over to Saint Mary's to face the Belle's on Thursday after­noon. 
Erratum 

In yesterday's Observer Daphne Bailie incorrectly stated that the last time Notre Dame won a football game without scoring a touchdown was against LSU in 1970. The Irish won the 1979 Michigan game by a 12-10 margin on four Chuck Male field goals. The Observer regrets the error. 


