
--~---~---------------------· 
• Shuttle-page 5 


VOL XVII, NO. 50 Illc indcpcnlklll ~llldnll ncw~papcr ~lT\·ing noire d;unc and ~aim mar~·~ TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1982 
Alcohol abuse 
Letter addresses problem 
ByANNE MONAS1YRSKI Dame. sity is not against the sale of kegs to StaffReporter Concern for alcohol abuse on this students 21 and over, but "the letter campus is extended to the sale and says 'let's be prudent."' Dean of Students James Roemer's consumption ofgrain alcohol as well 
The local distributors, United appeal to local liquor. distributors as beer, which Roemer cites as a par­Beverages, Inc., Sunnyside and retailers not to make deliveries ticular proble .m of hall residents, Beverages, ln·c., and Michiana 
to on and offcampus addresses is his especially freshmen. Beverages, Inc., are following response to the rash of alcohol­The prohibition of grain alcohol Roemer's suggestion. "I want to sell related problems both on and off on campus will· be discussed at an it (beer), but I don't want to sell it at campus. a cost like that," said William Shaia of
upcoming Hall Council meeting. 
"The year began with a terrible Roeme1· said that he has no Michiana Beverages, Inc., concern­amount of personal injury," said authority to "lay down the law," but ing the cost ofinjuries and lives. Roemer. He believes it is his respon­by appealing to local distributors Of the two retailers Roemer con­
sibility as an administrator and a per­and retailers not to make deliveries, tacted, Lock's Liquor World will son to address this issue. he hopes to decrease the amount of comply with his request, even 
A local distributor and a retailer, liquor consumed by students. though it ha.-; never been asked to in particular, have called Roemer Roemer remarked that delivering make a delivery before. Kings Cellar, expressing their concern about the several kegs at a time to students the other retailer contacted, will no amount of alcohol students are insures large parties of three 
longer deliver kegs to students on purchasing. Roemer also cited hundred or more people. 
See PROBLEM, page 3
drinking contests as a major con­Roemer stressed that the univer­tributor to alcohol problems. Student Body President Lloyd Burke and several hall rectors also 

Prison fire kills
have contacted Roemer regarding alcohol abuse on campus. Roemer's letter responded to the many recent alcohol-related car 

2 7 in Mississippi
accidents, personal injuries, and dis­~-·~..+<:.~ ciplinary problems that have oc­BILOXI, Miss. (AP) 27 The former mental patient is curred since the beginning of the prisoners died in their county jail being charged with 27 counts of semester. According to Roemer, this cells early yesterday when a former capital murder, said Albert Necaise, year is the worst incidence of al­mental patient set a fire in· a padded the di'itrict attorney for Harrison cohol abuse he has seen at Notre cell. Thick, choking smoke raced County. Those killed included 25 ~hrough the ventilation system, men and two women. kn~ -king out the jailer who held the The inmates were asleep when keys. the fire started at about I :30 a.m. and An additional 6I people were were quickly overcome by smoke injured, including firefighters, from the smoldering polyurethane, a
Officials search for car 
police officers, jailers and inmates of synthetic material used a." the Harrison County Jail -almost protective padding in an isolation By MARGARET FOSMOE McCandless Hall. The LeMans and Security's delay in contacting her all were victims ofsmoke inhalation. cell, said Harold Windham, an a.'isis­
Saint Mary's Executive Editor McCandless directors had been on department. "The system broke Hospital spokesmen said I 0 inmates tant fire chief. the phone together when the first down," she said. and a jailer were in critical condi­The Justice Departmem disclosed The suspect in Friday morning's victim ran into McCandless. Reed said that as a result of the tion. yesterday that it has been investigat­
assault of two Saint Mary's women Security reported to McCandless incident, she, Kovatch, and Per­"The ones that stayed alive got ing complaints ofovercrowding and was described as a black male, 5-where the first victim, apparently sonell Director Robert Foldesi will wet towels and wrapped them "environmental deficiencies" at the foot-seven to 5-foot-10 inches in greatly upset by the incident, had be going to the residence halls to around their face or got in a shower Biloxi jail. height, wearing a fatigue jacket and run upstairs. Kovatch emphasized talk to students. beginning next and put wet blankets over them," John Wilson, a spokesman for the driving a green car -possibly a that a lack of communication at this week. The meetings will be held in said Charlie Acevedo, an inmate department's civil rights division, Dodge Charger with a black roof. point caused some confusion. The hospitalized for smoke inhalation. said the division "will now ac­
See SEARCH, page 4

That description was given to existance of another victim was not "The ones that didn't died." celerate its investigation." Notre Dame Security by the Saint known at this point because the Wilson said that the department Joseph County Sheriffs office Friday woman in McCandless had run had received complaints about con­
morning, according to Notre Dame upstairs before anyone could ques­

ditions at the jail at Biloxi and anoth­Security Director Glenn Terry. tion her. 
Senate formalizes 
er county jail in Gulfport, Miss., and A suspect had not been ap­Meanwhile, said Kovatch, the 

began its investigation in Septem­prehended as of yesterday, said a second victim was apparently ber. spokesperson for the Detective forced at knifepoint into the as­
Sheriff Howard L. Hobbs said the Bureau ofthe Sheriffs office. sailant's car, a car with a stickshift. 

new party proposal 
fire was started by inmate Robert E. Neither student was injured. Kovatch said that when the 
Pates, 3I, of Granite City, Ill., who An official report from the second victim was later questioned, must be registered with the rectors.

ByDANKOPP had been arrested Saturday and Sun­Sheriffs office concerning the as­it was established that the assailant SeniorStaffReporter 30 percent of all expenditures must 
day on charges of public drunken­sault was scheduled to be released had driven through the the LeMans be reserved for non-alcoholic 
ness. Pates was incoherent Sunday this morning, according to Saint lot and past LeMans Hall toward the A finalized section party proposal beverages and food. In addition, all 
and deputies held him at the jail be­Mary's Security Director Anthony main gate. As the car slowed at the was given to the Student Senate last parties must end by I:45 a.m. 
cause they believed he was a danger Kovatch and Director ofPublic Rela­curve near LeMans, the girl was able night for confirmation, before it is to Yonchak is optimistic that the to himself and others, the sheriff tions Anne Reed. to escape from the car and run to be presented to the Campus Life proposal could pass through the said. 
After receiving the Sheriff's office LeMans where Security was called. Council on Nov. I8. C.L.C., which is composed of rec­
Later Sunday a judge ordered him report, Saint Mary's will compile The victim's purse remained in the In the proposal, Student Body tors, students, and administrators. 
committed for mental treatment, what will probably be the final car. Vice President Bob Yonchak, its "A good consensus ofthe rectors are and commitment papers his
said report on the incident, said Kovatch. Kovatch said this call was logged sponsor, says section parties are not in favor of it. I think they per­
family reported Pates had been A preliminary confidential report at 3:14a.m. needed to improve the social en­ceive a different type of party. 
confined to mental institutions was compiled by Saint Mary's Notre Dame Security and the St. vironment at Notre Dame. Section There's still a chance that it will be regularly for the past 10 years,
Security and presented to the Public Joseph County Sheriffs office were parties would "provide an atmos­passed, though," Yonchak said. 
Hobbs said. Relations Department yesterday. then contacted, said Kovatch. Of­phere for personal com­In other business, Student Body
more Pates was not seriously hurt but 
According to Kovatch, Security ficers from the Sheriffs office munication," and "provide a President Lloyd Burke announced 
was hospitalized for observation. received notification at I:4I a.m. arrived to question the victims. positive alternative to off-campus the agenda of his presentation "We understand the inmate may
Friday from the a night desk director The incident was logged as ending bars and 'beer bashes."' before the Student Affairs Commit­
have first ignited the mattress on his concerning student reports of a at approximately 5:29 a.m., accord­The proposal argues that many tee -which is a subcommittee of 
bed and this spread to the padding," green car being driven slowly ing to Kovatch. dorms do not have adequate social the Board of Trustees who are 
Coroner Ed Little said. "The flames around the Saint Mary's campus. Dean of Students Kathleen Rice space and those that do have large meeting this weekend. 
were limited to the one cell but the According to Kovatch, the two of­was contacted about the incident party rooms, which not col\­"We will address the quality of
are ventilation system quickly carried ficers on duty made a complete later that morning. ducive to ·:nice" parties. It claims student life at Notre Dame. Specifi­the smoke to the rest of the build­check of both the McCandless and The Saint Mary's Public Relations section parties would foster "a cally, the New York Times' rating ing." 
LeMans lots, both in patrol cars and office was notified of the assault at 3 relaxed and pleasant 'home' en­which showed a possible poor social 
Authorities do not know how he on foot, and did not sight the car. p.m. Friday, according to Karen vironment" because the parties environment, the Murday Report 
started the fire. At 3:I2 a.m., said Kovatch, Croake Heisler, Public Relations Of­would be thrown in the students' (which compared Notre Dame's so­Bates was among 97 inmates and 
Security received a call from the ficer. own rooms. cial space to that of other univer­
three jailers in the I8 year-old LeMans night desk director report­Reed, official spokesperson for To control these parties, Yonchak 
facility, which authorities said had a
See SENATE, page 4
ing "a man with a knife" near Security, could not explain proposes that all parties and guests 102-prisoner capacity. 
Student Body Vice President Bob Yonchak presented the finalized copy ofthe Section Party proposal to the Student Senate last nightforfinal suggestions. See Dan Kopp's story below. (Photo by Pete Laches) 

In assault case 


r--~-----­



NewsBrie!J 
By The Obserl'er and The Associated Press 
. Parking of motor vehicles is restricted ~o vehicles approved by the Athletic Department with spec1al passes m all parking spaces around the football stadium designated as C-1 or D-1 parkinglots during football game days. The restriction will apply Wednesday through Saturday, because ofthe lighting equipment for the Penn State game. Alternative parking is available in Green Field through Saturday. Motor vehicles violating this restriction may be towed to another location on campus. The Athletic Department asks all to comply for the sake of an orderly and safe environment th.ough the stated period. -The Observer 
A seven-year-old Detroit boywho became a quadriplegic and suffered brain damage when doctors missed a diag­nosis for diabetes will receive payments that will amount to S 15 million ifhe lives to the age of55, his parents' lawyer said yesterday. Thomas and Marcia Malek of Hamtramck, acting for their son, Thomas, settled out of court late last week with North Detroit General Hospital and Dr. Gandam Jayakar for S950,000 plus pay­ments for the child's care, said the Maleks' attorney, Norman H. Rosen. IfThomas lives beyond 55, the value will be higher than $15 million. Jerry Forhlich, associate administrator at North Detroit, declined to comment yesterday. Jayakar said yesterday that he saw the boy just once, that the boy was treated for fever, and thatJayakar had nothing to do with administering a glucose solution. Rosen said the sugar-and-water solution, administered after the boy was in a coma, compounded his condition. -AP 
The National Commission on Social Security Reform yesterday released a laundry list of methods to save the sys­tem, ranging from higher gasoline and whiskey taxes to belt­tightening measures for the 36 million beneficiaries. The IS-member panel is expected to pick and choose later this week from among the options laid out in the background book prepared by its staff. The list suggests ways to revamp the system, providing estimates of savings and how much each idea could contribute to eradicating Social Security's deficits during the 1980s and over the next 75 years. The menu includes such unpopular possibilities as gradually raising the normal retirement age of 65, cutting cost-of­living increases and phasing in a tax on Social Security benefits. -AP 
U.S. Marines are about to make an unpublicized practice landingon the Moroccan coast, threatening delicate talks with a new Socialist government in Spain, which already is balking over American military bases and its membership in NATO. "We would not like it," said a Spanish diplomat who asked to remain anonymous. The official objected to the location of the impending Marine lan­ding, near Spanish enclaves on the Moroccan coast across from Gibraltar. At least one senior Pentagon official is known to have sug­gested that the U.S.-Moroccan exercise, described as the first ever, be postponed orcancelled. But there was every indication yesterday that the maneuvers would go ahead on schedule starting today. The exercise comes at a time when the United States faces the possibility of tough negotiations with the new Socialist Spanish government over continued American use ofkey bases in Spain. -AP 
An unemployed nurse in Saint Charles, Mo., charged with killing her fourth husband by spiking his beer and wine with antifreeze, may have killed a previous husband, and may have tried to kill a third, a prosecutor said yesterday. Authorities said the woman, Shirley Allen, had taken out a S25,000 life insurance policy on her husband and told neighbors he was suffering from an in­operable brain tumor as he became steadily sicker from the an­tifreeze over a period of months. "We think there are suspicious circumstances surrounding the death of one of the woman's pre­vious husbands," said Bill Hannah, prosecuting attorney for Saint Charles County. "It appears to be an inexplicable d1..ath -sort of what would have happened with this one ifwe hadn't been tipped." Toxicology tests performed by the county medical examiner's office showed that Allen's body tissues were saturated with ethylene 
glycol, the main ingredient in antifreeze. -AP 
Two black women convicted of voting fraud in Tus­kegee, Ala., will be parolled today -one day later than planned ­because of a paperwork delay, according to the Tuskegee mayor. Julia Wilder, 70, and Maggie Bozeman, 51, went to prison last January after being convicted offorging names on absentee ballots. They spent 11 days in prison before Gov. Fob James let them serve the sentences in work-release jobs. The state parole board voted Nov. 1 to release them artd the paroles were supposed to be effective yesterday, but MayorJohnny Ford said the paperwork was late arriv· iug from the parole board and the State Department of Corrections in Montgomery. The convictions sparked a protest march across Alabama. -AP 
Considerabl~ cloudiness today with a 3o percent chance of late afternoon and evening showers. High in the mid 50s. Partly cloudy tonight with a low in the mid 40s. Partly cloudy and warmer tomorrow with highs in the low 60s. -AP 

Tuesday, November 9, 1982-page 2 
Fortress DuLac 
To alumni, be they the real thing or subway, Notre Dame is a gleaming oasis. Surely these hard-core fans of the place can barely contain their salivating glands and wallets in anticipation of seeing the dome and the bookstore. Despite the frequent ridicule, I like these bubbly visitors. Not only can one laugh at their polychromatic clothes, but they frequently toss their 
earnings about in a carefree manner. I remember one fine old gentleman, who, upon seeing me returning from a liquor store to campus, offered me SIO for my !:t<>ttle ofecono-grape brew. 
The main thing to remember is that, sooner or later, despite our best efforts, we will end up as alumni our­selves. And so, as appalling as the thought seems now, the lure of a Notre Dame toilet seat may one day become irresistible to us all (especially the neat ones that play the fight song when you sit down). 
The real alumni generally share a feeling ofdisbelief when they hear today's students complain about life at Notre Dame. "Balderdash!" they exclaim. "Why in my day a girl was as rare as a whale. Now look at 'em, they're everywhere." "The only time I got to meet a female was when the girls from Saint Mary's would invite us over for tea on Sunday afternoons." "They turned out the lights in my dorm by mid-­night. Ifl wanted to read lon­ger, I had to use a flashlight. That's why my eyes are bad now." "We had to go to Mass ·c.---_-.) 
every morning. If I missed a _ day, my burly rector would 

downtowns in this country. South Bend was no excep­tion. A couple of hotels are there, but they offer little more to students than free Mexican matter during hap· py hour. The theaters are gone, and to wander the streets after dark is to take a mini-urban plunge. Most activites away from the Notre Dame campus require the use of a car. And then, there is no one area that combines numerous forms of frivolity. A typical night off-campus for students now can begin with an exciting movie at one of the scattered shoe-box theaters. Then it's back into the car for a drive to one ofthe many local bars for some socializing. The choices are diverse. You can go to one ofthe plush student bars, where the con­genial employees will call you obscene names and over­charge you. Or you can go to one ofthe nicer places and pay exhorbitant prices with money you have already spent on gas. Perhaps to round the night out you want to grab a late-night snack. There's the plastic clone boxes on U.S. 31 (33?) 


pound on the door at 6 a.m. -----.,.--,. -...-,. -that all serve variations of and drag me down to the 
the same hydrocarbons. Or
-\\.'0~f§5
chapel by my ear." _:o-you can go for some local 
Yet, despite the memories flavor and indigestion at of such harsh living condi­Shirley's. Sounds fun, huh? tions, most alums remember The majority of students having quite a bit of without cars aren't missing a fun ...tales abound about thing. The local shopping wild trips for a night of districts consist of the likes debauchery in South of the lavish University Park 
Bend ...diving out bar win­dows to escape prowling rectors .. .late night treats at the Philadelphia Cafe and purposely running into that special girl at Osco. 
Before the decay ofthe sixties, South Bend used to be a thriving city. Downtown boasted several first-class hotels, good restaurants, theaters, and numerous bars run by congenial proprietors. A typical weekend night saw vast numbers of students from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's flocking downtown on the frequent shuttle service. Once downtown, they could enjoy the many concentrated delights ofthe city in relative safety. For a few hours, they could forget about lights out, heavy course loads, and early morning Masses. 
Today, much has been done to liberalize student 
living conditions. Aperson doesn't have to turn out the 
lights until study-stupor sets in. Church attendance is a 
matter of individual holiness, and unlike the whales, 
females populate the campus in mass quantities. Some 
repressive rules still remain, such as parietals, but over· 
all conditions are closer to those of the real world than 
before. 

Unfortunately, the opportunities to socialize have 
regressed. The advent of the automobile killed most 

Mall, which combines some 
of the worst national chains 
under one roof Or you can 
step out to the North Village 

Mall and its well stocked Iampshade store. The adven· turous ones can hike up to downtown Roseland for an afternoon ofwindow-shopping. 
None of this is the fault ofSouth Bend. For residents, with cars it offers as much as most cities. But Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, surrounded by highways arid suburbs, might as well be located in a desert. Unlike most other colleges and universities, there is no local shoppingdistrict that caters to students, many ofwhom find relieffrom stress in consumerism. 
Perhaps if the university saw fit to lease out some of its vast land holdings to commercial interests, en­terprising individuals could start some businesses. These businesses could be locally owned, thus m~t:y would be pumped into the local economy. The stores could employ students, and offer services of minimal interest to the South bend community. The university would make money on the deal, and students would have some place locally to which they could flee from scholastic pressure. 

The Observer 
Design Editor .............................. Tim Neely Design Assistant ................. Ken Cerabona Laura Puk Typesetters .......................... Jim Maclennan AI Novas News Editor ............................ Mike Wilkins Copy Editor........................... Diane Dirkers ND Day Edt/or .......................... Dave Grore SMC Day Editor ........................ Tari Brown B&TLayout ............................... Ed Konrady Editorials La)•out ............... Ken Cerabona Sports Copy Editor.......... .Rich O'Connor Typist ........................................... Cilris Perry Ad Design ................................ Jeannie Euch Photographer............................ Pere Laches Guest Appearances................... Parries and 
Popcorn Cake and Cookies 
The Observer ,uSPS ,,~6 >.~20' '' published M<>ndd y through F,,,"1 ~n:t un hume fuutball Satur:ld y~ exc<•pt dunng exam t.tnd v~c<:lft(.r: pt•r,,ids The Observer,, puo,sneo tJ 1 In<' studenb 
of Notre Da·ne dnd Sd1nt M,tr v> l... '' lege Subscnphuns ma 1 oe pur< hii~'"'J fur S25 per year tS15 per se·ne~tert o·; wnttng The Observer P 0 Bux tJ 
Nutre Dame Ina, ana 46">~6 
The Observer ~~ il ·ne·not·r "' The Associ•teo Press All repr...luc!lun nghts are •eserven 
Second c..lass puStdgr· OrtH1 .11 !\l,*l1 
Dame lndtd'1d 460,:,6 

llltt?lt?Stt?cllll te~i2111~ () £1()§§ Ill 13clllr()()rn Uc111£i11~1 
It's still not too late to sign up for the ballroom dance class which is being held on St. Mary' Campus in the Regina Hall Lounge Basemen from 8:30p.m. to 10 p.m. 

e Next scheduled Class Date is Nov.10. 
eSign up now in theSMC Student Activities Office Ph. 284-4561 

eJust in time to get you ready for the holiday dances. 
eotter limited to ND -SMC students only 
•This class will be taught by Ray Sexton 

from Indianapolis and the total cost is only $25 for 5 weeks. 
·rhe Observer Tuesday, November 9, 1982 page 3 




Roy Clark to speak on 'NewrJournalism' 
By BOB VONDERHEIDE information in one paragraph ­News Editor make the reader gasp for another breath and turn the page, Clark feels. 
Roy Peter Clark would want this An article in Clark's 1981 anthol­sentence to be as creative as all news ogy on New York Mayor Ed Koch, leads should be. for example, begins: "He is the fres­
Clark, who will be on campus hest thing to blossom in New York today and tomorrow, is a recognized since chopped liver, a mixed metap­authority on "New Journalism," a hor of a politician." Beyond the flexible and vivid style of news bare bones of writing a story, "New writing made popular by contem­Journalism" also challenges editors porary writers such as George Or­to think of fresh ways to cover and well and Tom Wolfe. Clark will analyze news. lecture on news writing for both the Clark emphasizes the journalist's classroom and the newsroom responsiblity to the public and the tonight at 8:00 in Room 123 of people in the news. The public does Nieuwland Science Hall. He also will not owe the media anything, Clark introduce his ideas on "New Jour­says, and only ethical conduct can nalism" and present an overview of keep the public's trust. basic journalism skills. Clark, 34, worked for five years as 
Clark is the assistant director of an editor, writer, and film critic for the Modern Media Institute in St. the St. Petersburg T me s, before 
The Soviet Union paraded these tanks, the latest 

the 65th anniversary ofthe BolshevikRevolution. Petersburg, Fla., which holds semi­joining the Modern Media Institute 
Soviet mediU"f tank deployed in the Soviet Union 
(APPhoto) nars and workshops for writers and four years ago. He earned a doc­
and Eastern Europe through Red Square to mark 
editors ofpublications, ranging from torate in English from the State Uni­major daily newspapers to grade versity of New York, and became 
Laundry service school annuals. He also edits the an­interested in news as a faculty mem­thology, Best Newspaper Writing, ber ofAuburn University. for the American Society of The M.M.l. offers a six-week
Computer shortens lines 
Newspaper Editors. workshop in news writing every 
News stories, Clark says, deserve a summer to college students and By CATHERINE DUFFY pickup lines when students had to up his laundry, telling him how personality -a special flavor that graduates. Last year 15 people NewsStaff pay for any laundry that cost over much of the allotment is remaining. comes from the right recipe of recieved S1,000 fellowships from 
that amount. The employees' response has feature and news writing styles. The the institute to attend the workshop. 
Although problems arose at first, The present allotment is 539.00 a been favorable. Whereas before, the lead ofa story does not have to con­In addition to his lecture tonight, the laundry service's computer sys­semester. This has cut down on the lists were handwritten and could be tain the standard who, what, where, Clark will eat dinner with the faculty tem is a success and has resulted in lines and makes recordkeeping misinterpreted easily, the new com­when, why, and how that traditional ofthe American Studies Depanment shoner lines for the students. easier. However, one problem is puter has made the data more editors demand, Clark thinks and Observer Advisor Walt Collins 
According to Laundry Director what will happen when the student's readable. The actual washing creative journalistic writing could this afternoon at 5. Norm Mueller, the system has im­allotment runs out. Mueller said process is still performed manually bring life to many otherwise dead Clark will talk with the Observer proved the efficiency of the laundry some students are already at or over by the employees. Mueller hopes news articles. editors tomorrow morning before service considerably. Some the prepaid amount. Hopefully, the the new system will be perfected by "New Journalism" attempts to leaving later in the day. The Ob­problems occurred at the beginning extra amount owed will be trans­the end of the semester so that no capture a news event's dynamics server and the American Studies of the semester, but Mueller at­ferred to the student's account and additional changes will have to be avoiding a freeze-frame static style. Department are sponsoring Clark's tributes th_is to the usual problems the laundry service will not have to made in the laundry operations. "Suitcase leads" -which spill all the visit. that any change experiences in its return to the former method of preliminary period. weekly payment, according to Muel­After long wait 
The system was installed to help ler. speed up the laundry pickup and The new accounts system is more keep track of each student's cloth­efficient and makes it easier to cor­

Telephone directories arrive 
ing. Previously, students were al­rect any mistakes made on the stu­lotted S2.60 worth of laundry a dent's account. Each students gets a By MARY EASTERDAY in on a white horse and took over Tom Koegel, director of Om­
week, which caused a backup in the balance statement each time he pick News Staff 
the printing." He also said that budsman, said that the directories Promotional Enterprises was very will be delivered to the presidents of For the weary students who have 
helpful in finding another company the larger dorms. The hall presidents made many frustrating attempts at 
and no money was lost. Magel said the format of the directory will will then deliver them to the rest of
finding a telephone number in the 
remain the same as in past years and the halL Ombudsman will distribute• • . Problem tattered, two-piece campus phone the same vendors have been the books door-to-door in the small­
books, the new directories will be 
retained. erdorms.
delivered today.
continuedfrom page 1 borhood residents, however, so 
The new campus phone books
Kings Cellar will continue to deliver 
~,, ''''Plea5€00;:;at€'Y~~R , ,,,,,.,
were scheduled to come out Oct.
to off-campus housing -including 
24, but, after another one-day delay, 
campus but will continue to deliver Campus View and Notre Dame ap­they should be delivered today.
to off-campus residences. partments. 
~ PENN STATE STUDENT TICKETS ~ 
President of Kings Cellar Robert By requesting no deliveries be The problem arose when the Anderson said he would not "get in made to off-campus student printing company, Promotional En­
I ~OR I
terprises, Inc. of Indianapolis ­
between the administration and stu­residences, Roemer said he hopes to whom Notre Dame had patronized
dents," and thus will not make on­initiate a dialogue with those stu­campus deliveries anymore. He does dents. Roemer believes that 
for nine years -went out of busi­
i:. B•G Booth€RIB•G S•st~ o~ nOtsmc : • 
ness, according to Carl Magel, Direc­
dents living off-campus and neigh-sensitive and sympathetic to the tor of the Notre Dame Office of Printing and Publications. 
not make a distinction between stu­"students have been especially 
issue this year," and he hopes stu­

Collection in dining halls tuesday,
dents recognize his appeal as a step Magel said that University Direc­
I
in alleviating alcohol problems. tories Co. of Chapel Hill, N.C., "rode 

1 wednesday, thursday nov 9, 10, 11 .
Next clue given for Beaux Arts 
The search for the Beaux Arts Ball tickets and a case ofcheap beer con­tinues. Clues to their location will appear in the Obseruer each day this week. The theme of the· event is "Bad Taste" and will be held this Friday night from 9 to 2 in the Ar­chitecture Building. Tickets are s~ and will be sold in the dining halls and at the door. The bands -"The Verbs" and "The Rooms" will be the only good taste permitted. 
There once was a campus with a dome 
In its glow our beer finds its home 
Aboveyet below the stars 
Not tooJarfrom the cars 
Here to absolve our Bad Taste we often Rome. 
{)I? fc N AIIJ[)IIJII{)NS I! 
EIGH1~ ONE-ACT PLAYS 
ALL WELCOME! no experience necessary 
Wednesday, November 10 ·Thursday, November 11 
4:00 pm Underground Theatre 

l'££»i' J05:00-6:00 pm : 
·~ €t aChllb €nJOY an n.O. qam~

:L:=:=:=:-:-:-:=:->:::-:-:::::::->:-:->:::-:-:-:-::>::::::::::::::::::>:::::::::<::::::::::::::::=:=:=:::=:=:=:::::=::::::::::::::::::::::;::::=:::::::::::::=:=::::~ 


----...-------·----------------------------------------------·-------­
The Observer Tuesday, November 9, 1982-page 4 
.i­
'' Social, cultural potpourri 
Students visit Chicago 

By SONYA STINSON 
Senior StaffReporter 
A group of Notre Dame students and faculty members explored Chicago's social and cultural pot­pourri on an aU-day tour of the city last Sunday. 
The trip was organized by the· departments of Anthropology and Sociology. Three professors Richard Lamanna and Eugene Rochberg-Halton of the Sociology department and Kenneth Moore of the Anthropology department ­acted as guides for the tour. They provided narration and background information for the students' dis­covery ofa wide range ofresidential, business, and recreational areas. 
When the 27-member group boarded the tour bus at 8 a.m., there were a lot of drooping eyelids and dragging feet among them. Many yawned or dozed through much of the highway trip. Once the bus en­tered city, however, the group en­countered quite a few eye-openers. 
The first stop on the tour, after driving through the University of Il­linois campus and the medical dis­trict, was the outdoor market on Maxwell St.. On Sundays, the Max­well St. area is filled with people ­mainly from the poorer sections of the city -carrying out their version of the weekend shopping spree. 
Here one can buy anything from a s uit to a sink, from a handbag to a hubcap. 



ANNIVE~AQY GALA 
We are only mi'nutes from campus. 



Queen's Castle 
REG HELENE coRns NOW S30.oo . Ulll PfiM SALE $2150
Tinted -$25.50 

-~-------------------­
REG. ZOTO 
(for tinted 
$35.00 
hair\ 

--------~----------­niDIESS $3N5o~o
lOREAL 

\-(Aero.. from M11rtln'1 on St. Rd. 23) 
''Hair Kialdom For All" 
CLOSEDMONDAY // TUES., WED. 1:30-5:30 THURS.-f'RI. 8:30-3:.)0 • SAT. 8:30-5:30 
272-0312. 272-8471• 277-1691 
On last year's tour, the Maxwell St. 
Market turned out to be the high­
light for the students, according to 
Lamanna. This year, again, it was the 
tour's climax for most students. 
"One thing that was really surpris­ing about Maxwell St. was to see people of different nationalities speaking their own language and selling things," said Brenda Stirks, who went on this year's tour. 
After leaving Maxwell St., the tour continued throug .h the retail and financial districts around Michigan Ave. to the Watertower Place, a large shopping complex which caters to expensive'tastes. 
Several students noted a contrast between the Watertower Place and the Maxwell St. Market. 
"It seemed that the people on Maxwell St. were more sociable. We were able to fit in. When we went to the Ritz-Carlton Hotel (in Water­tower Place) we felt so out ofplace," commented John May. 
May was one of a group of stu­
dents who tried to get a view of 
Chicago from the restaurant on the 
95th floor of the John Hancock 
building, but were ousted because 
they were improperly attired. 
"We don't allow jeans or tennis shoes," the maitre d' informed May, confirming the disapproval shown in the look ofone ofthe fur-clad res­taurant patrons. 
An~Hher stop on the tour was Chinatown, with its colorfully­painted restaurants, food stores, and novelty shops. Buildings -trimmed in bright reds, blues, and yellows ­displayed Chinese art and clothing or whole-cooked chickens and ducks in their windows. On one cor­ner stood a telephone booth topped with a pagoda. On another was the Chinese Christian Union Church. 
The tour later travelled through the Pilsen district, a large Mexican­American area whose buildings dis­played colorful murals. The bus also 
Old Douglas Road repairs cotnpleted 
ByWARREN BERRY 
News Staff 
The SaintJoseph Highway Depart­ment recently completed the repavement of Old Douglas Road from Juniper Road to the railroad crossing, at the request of the Notre Dame Credit Union. The cost of the project was approximately 521,000. 
According to highway engineer Bob Richardson, the county­maintained road was aligned and the sharp curve near the Credit Union was straightened and elongated to 
• • . Senate 
continuedfrom page 1 
sities), and statistics from student surveys about the social life here. All of these will, I hope, show the need for a program -for long-term goals," Burke said. 
"This same presentation has been going on for years now. They (the Student Affairs Committee) have to establish priorities," Burke said. "The academics are being more than adequately handled." 
Also last night, Burke lamented the lack of interest in the Student Senate itself. which was formed two years ago. "It's time we, as a group, decide whether we want to make the Student Senate the active policy­making body of the student govern­ment," Burke said. He stressed again that the meetings are open to the students. They are held on Monday nights at 6 in 122 Hayes Healey. 
drove through the Irish community 
of Bridgeport, and Black com­

munities -which were charac­
terized by storefront churches and 
tenements. 
One area the tour visited was the Cabrini Green housing project. which was the focus of much publicity when Chicago Mayor Jane Byrne stayed there for a short time last year. 

"I was struck by the number of comments ~uggesting that it (the housing project) wasn't as bad a~ they (the studem~) had expected.'' Lamanna said. "There had been a lot of publicity about :'vlayor Byrne moving into one of the Cabrini Green apartmems, and there was a lot in the papers about how awful the place was. But when we got there it was all quiet. Well, Sunday mornings are not the best time to see street action." 
This year's group included a stu­dent from Japan, Keiko Aoyama, who commented on differences be­tween the urban setting in Chicago and large cities in her country. 
"When our bus was going through the streets beneath the skyscraper~. I was surprised at the darkness,'' Aoyama said. "In Japan, we are very sensitive about the right to enjoy the sunshine. The_ Japanese are careful about not letting too many tall build­ings crowd out the sun." 

After touring many other parts of the city, the trip wound up with a six-course dinner at a Polish res­taurant. 
Most students said they wen: struck by the city's diversity, which is what the organizers of the tour wanted to stress, Lamanna said. He commented that in the five years the tour has existed, the students have always learned something new. 
"We have had kids who grew up in Chicago who have been surprised and learned a lot on the trip," he said. 

reduce the driving hazards, especial­ly during the winter months. 
The problem occurred when the four plots of land, each surveyed over I 00 years ago, came together at the curve. The road was restricted to the area between each designated land survey. Consequently, the road, being built from Juniper to US 33, was not alligned when the two con­struction sites met. 
The highway department cleared several tress from the Credit Union property and laid gravel last year to make the road passable. When federal and state funds were granted this year, the department reserved funds for the Douglas Road project. 
Richardson stated that the High­way Department has a five-year plan of various projects which will in­clude the eventual paving of Douglas Road from US 33 toJuniper. Also included in the package plan is a project to remove .foliage from University-owned land east of Juniper and north of Douglas. 
• • . Search 
continuedfrom page 1 

the hall lounges and will take place at 10:00 p.m. 
Reed said that they will talk about security procedures and what stu­dents can do to protect themselves. 
The schedule for the meetings is as follows: Tuesday, Nov. 16, Regina; Thursday, Nov. 18, McCandless; Sunday, Nov. 21, LeMans; Monday, Nov. 22. Holy Cross. 

-~---~----~------.1 
Business & Technology Tuesday, November 9, 1982-page 5 

EconomicUpd3:te 
Yields on short-term Treasury secunues rebounded in yesterday's auctions following declines in the pre­vious week, the Treasury Department reported. About S5.6 billion in new three-moth bills were auctioned at an average discount rate of "".964 percent, up from the ~.813 percent of last week. The government also sold about S5.6 billion in six-month bills at an average rate of 8.397 .percent, up from 8.231 percent. Yesterday's yields, a measure of the cost of government borrowing from the public, were the highest since October 25, when rates were 8.031 percent for three-month bills and 8.472 percent for six-month bills. 
The discount rate on the newT-bills understates the actual return to investors. That return will come to an average of 8.24 percent on three-month bills and 8.89 percent on six-month bills. -AP 

Science Update 
Large sections of the country, including pans of the South, the Southeast and the West, are highly vulnerable to acid rain, a conservation group said yesterday. Paul Hansen of the lzaak Walton League ofAmerica told a news conference a new study by Environmental Protection Agency scientists shows more of the country may be threatened by acid rain than had been thought. Most ofthe effects ofacid rain seen so far have been in the Northeast. EPA chiefspokesman Byron Nelson said the league was taking an interim research document intended only to guide future research and attempting to depict it as a major development. Nelson accused the group of using scare tactics to advance its argument for immediate controls on pollutants believed to cause acid rain. Hansen, the league's project coordinator for acid rain, said the study shows surface waters in large parts ofthe country are low in alkalinity. That is important because alkaline, acting like an antacid tablet, neutralizes acid that might otherwise harm fish life. "These findings should change the political nature ofthe acid rain debate," said Han­sen. "In the last Congress, acid rain was basically considered a regional issue, with support primarily from Eastern and North Central states known to be sensitive to acid rain. "However, we now have dramatic evidence that acid rain is an issue that is truly of na­tional concern." -AP 

all Street Update 
Blue chip issues led a sharp decline in the stock marke~yesterday amid uncertainties over the likelihood and timing of any further cuts in the Federal Reserve's discount rate. Trading was relatively quiet. The DowJones average of30 industrials, which climbed 60 points last week and touched a record high, fell back I4.34 to 1,037.44. In eight of the last 11 sessions, the average has risen or fallen by more than 10 points in one of the market's most volatile periods in modern memory. Yesterday's volume on the New York Stock Exchange came to 75.24 million shares, down from 
96.55 million Friday and barely half last Thursday's record total of 
149.35 million. Since last week's election, there have been widespread forecasts ofa new reduction in the discount rate, which has been lowered in five steps from 12 to nine and a half percent since mid-summer. Some observers had thought the Fed would cut the rate on loans to private financial institutions after the market closed on Friday, but it took no action at that time -and still had not done so by late today. _.:. AP 


~--------~~ ~ -·--i------~
1Chieago HairCutting c.~ J 
_.cutltlJOUrwag. .... orelrle! 
-~~a. note' ~-~~ ~·~ l all ~~~l 



~\.~11\ln\-o _to~­-~-~...,,. ,s
I • I \tO ~ ~~\C -~. -~ ­
'rl1' :tioid ~ , ~-e i · -­

\ .,..,. -\ -I_ L-­
_:.------G~ {R:oad \ P~~za/. 
. \ ---l: ~----­
111181 r~p~ ' cf. '•
,fj· i \ f,\J~ \For 
Brillg \ 6 -


~ \ ~ ~ \ TJ-IP_M 
No appointment I Open 7days 

daily 9-8 Sat. 9-6 Sun 11 -5 Grape Road Plaza Grape and Day Roads 

@REDI<EN 
277-7946 Hair must be shampooed day of cut 
IJ<>U~ \H~ pi'_ PI\ 
-'I 
.-·o ~v e

al~o,_ --·-• 
»> 


Space shuttle 
Countdo-wn behind schedule 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) ­The countdown for space shuttle Columbia's first operational mission fell seven hours behind schedule yesterday because ofa small leak in a helium regulator. But a test director said the deficit could be made up in time for a scheduled Thursday morning launching. 
Test director Gilbert Whittaker termed it "no real problem" and noted the tlve-day countdown in­cludes more than 20 hours of planned holds to handle such problems. 
Gene Thomas, a project engineer, said the leak was discovered in a regulator in one of30 small jets used to steer the spaceship in orbit. He said the faulty system had been taken off line and a backup system switched on in its place. 
Helium is used to pressurize fuel lines. 
Whittaker reported the weather outlook was good for a Thursday launch. The forecast calls for good visibility, light winds and a tem­perature of 72 degrees. 
On the pad, crews were busy today washing Columbia's windows, pressurizing fuel tanks, activating power-producing fuel cells and reviewing flight software stored in computer memory banks. 
The fiery liftoff, scheduled for 
7:19 a.m. EST Thursday, will be Columbia's tlfth trip into space, but the first for "business for which the space shuttle was intended," said veteran astronaut Vance Brand. 
After four previous test flights, the shuttle will carry its first payload ­two commercial satellites to be launched into orbit. 
Satellite Business Systems Inc. and Telesat Canada, Ltd. each is paying the National Aeronautics and Space Administration S10 million to carry the two communications satellites. 
The SBS satellite is scheduled to 
be released eight hours after liftoff. 
The Canadian payload is ro be 
ejected Friday. 
The four 'l!Stronauts who will fly the shuttle's first commercial mis­

"For stouthearted investor" 

Merrill Lynch starts new-fund 
By MILTON MOSCOWITZ 
Special to The Observer 
You've heard of"Rent a Wreck" or "Rent a Clunker"' 
These are auto rental companies that have sprung up across the country to rent cars which are not exactly in mint condition at prices lower than those offered bv Hertz and Avis. In fact, they may be. buying the Hertz and A vis discards. 
Well, Merrill Lynch, the nation's 
largest stockbroker, has now applied 
this principle to the stock market. It 
has come up with a new mutual fund 
specifically chartered to invest only 
in troubled situations in the hope 
that they wil rise from the ashes the 
way the legendary Phoenix did. 
Indeed, this new vehicle is called the 
Merrill Lynch Phoenix Fund. 
Merrill Lunch is trying to raise 575 million by October 22 to start this project. To get in on it, you have to invest a minimum of 52,500. However. retirement accounts can buy in for as little as S250. Anyone who's building a retirement account on Phoenix Fund shares must reallv have guts. · 
Don White. business editor of the San Francisco Chronicle, has aptly­labeled Phoenix a fund for the "real stouthearted investor." How many stouthearted investors are out there' How manv people go to the racetrack and bet -8-to-1 shots? 

j 
' 
~ 
sion were at the Johnson Space Cen­ter in Houston yesterday, wrapping up months of training. They will fly to the launch site this morning to make final preparations for the five­day flight, which is to end Tuesday, Nov. 16, with a landing at Edwards Air Force Base in California. 
Commanding the shuttle's tlrst four-man crew is Vance Brand, who flew on the joint U.S.-Soviet flight in 1975. With him will be three space rookies, pilot Robert Overmyer, William B. Lenoir andJoseph Allen. 
The major goal ofthe mission is to place in separate orbits two com­mercia! communications satellites built for Satellite Business Systems of McLean. Va., and Telesat Canada, Inc. They are the tlrst ofa long line of customers who have signed on to pay NASA for shuttle launch services. 
Lanoir and Allen are responsible for monitoring the satellites and ejecting them with spring devices from the ship's 60-foot-long cargo bay. They also will take the first shuttle space walks when they step together into the open bay on Sun­day for three and a half hours of spacesuit and other tests. 

The crew of the fifth space shuttle, from left to right, joseph P. Allen; Commander Vance D. Brand; Pilot Robert F. Overmyer; and William B. Lenoir; sit against a model ofthe space shuttle which is due to be launched Thursday. See the Associated Press story• (APPhoto) 
Merrill Lynch says right up front 
that this fund is for the investor 
who's willing to assume a "high de­
gree of risk." But it cites such ex­
amples as Penn Central, Toys "R" Us 
(formerly Interstate Stores) and 
Orion Capital (formerly Equity Fun­
ding). 1hese are compaies which 
rose from their deathbeds to 
become shooting stars. 
Merrill Lynch says it has identified 
some 300 companies as logical can­
didates for the Phoenix portfolio. It's 
not disclosing which ones these are 
but it's interesting to speculate. 
How about Braniff International the airline now in Chapter I I bankruptcy proceedings? ·Its shares still trade on the Pacific Stock Ex­change and were recently selling at 30 cents apiece. Another airline, Pan American World Airways, has lost money in six ofthe last 10 years, and it trades on the Big Board at S3 a share. 
Manville, the company you used to know as johns-Manville, also went into Chapter 11 recently -and its stock still trades on the New York Stock Exchange. You can buy it for less than S6 a share. 
How about the once great A&P su­permarket chain, trading as the Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Com­pany? It has lost money for the last four years. You can get 100 shares for S800. 
Phoenix has plenty to choose 
from. Chrysler, still the third largest 
auto company in the U.S., is making a 
valiant try at a comeback -and its 
stock was recently selling at S8. 50. 
International Harvester, a company 
teetering on the brink, once sold as 
high as S45 a share doesn't make 
lighters any more (but it still makes 
the flints) and its share price has slid 
to S2. 

Phoenix is also going to be able to sock 20 percent of its funds into foreign securities. What a vista that opens up! If they act quickly, they may be able to get their hands on some Polish bonds or Mexican notes. 
You can see what a wonderful portfolio this could be. 
Merrill Lynch's Phoenix Fund is also the first mutual fund I have seen that's going to apply a "mean test" to people who want to invest. Yes sir, this is not going to be a fund open to just anybody. The prospectus clear­ly states that no shares will be sold to anyone wh has a net worth of less than S3j,OOO ()r who is making less 
than 1!35,000 a year. 

After all, the Phoenix fund has the potential offantastic appreciation. If just one or two ofthese losers can be turned around, yo .ur investment could multiply incredibly. And it wouldn't be good to have low­income people share in this kind of bonanza. 
(c) 1982, Los Angeles Times Syndicate 
----~----­
--------------------~----------------~--~------~~----..--~~~--~~--~---.~---­






Editorials 
Tuesday, November 9, 1982-page 6 
In defense of John De lorean 
The news media has lavished much atten­tion on the De Lorean case recently, and with good reason. John Z. De Lorean is a big-time auto executive, a daring entrepeneur, "the man who fired GM," a flashy jet-setter, and he 


Dan lawton 
I 

Guest Columnist 
has been implicated in a drug bust of spec­tacular proportions. Much of the case's popularity, I think, centers on the prospect that this is one rich high-flier who, for once, is surely going to get nailed for breaking the law. De Lorean apparently is, as they say, "guilty as hell." 
Or is he? 
I am not a personal admirer of John De Lorean. But neither am I an admirer ofFBI tac­tics which have given us such questionable operations as ABSCAM and which have largely enjoyed the approval ofthe U.S. court system. I think it is important to examine the pos­sibility thatJohn De Lorean may be innocent, on the grounds that he was entrapped ­induced to commit a crime which he other­wise would not have committed, had it not been for federal agents. 
Naturally, De Lorean's defense will hinge on this issue. fairly obvious by now is the fact that De Lorean did agree to help finance a cocaine deal which would have netted him S50 million in order to save his failing automobile manufacturing outfit, De Lorean Motor Company, from bankruptcy. Not so clear, however, is whether De Lorean would have agreed to the deal had he not been at­tracted to it by his neighbor, an FBI informant, in San Diego. This issue is important not only for De Lorean's guilt or innocence, but also for its reflection of an extremely controversial but legally accepted method of law enforce­ment by federal officials in the U.S. today. 
Consider this. The U.S. Supreme Court has stated in its rulings on entrapment that "a per­son should not be held criminally liable for acts that he has committed ifthey are induced by federal agents." Although Court rulings on the entrapment defense have grown exceed­ingly more narrow since the landmark Sor­rells vs. U.S. case ( 19 32 ), the Court has upheld the priciple that the government may not accuse a person of a crime when the govern· ment itself is the instigator of the accused's conduct. 

Let's take a closer look at the case to which I have referred -Sorrells vs. U.S., which un­derlies the rationale for the entrapment defense. In that case, a government agent repeatedly asked the defendant to sell him moonshine whiskey. The defendant finally gave in and sold the whiskey, in violation of the National Prohibition Act. On that basis, he was arrested, indicted, and convicted. The Supreme Court overruled his conviction, declaring the inadmissibility of "the instiga­tion by government officials of an act on the part ofpersonsotherwise innocent in order to lure them to its commission and to punish them." 
"Otherwise innocent" are the key words here. If a defendant would have committed the crime anyway, and if government agents only gave him the opportunity, then entrap­ment is not a valid defense. "Predisposition" is the term favored by the judiciary on this topic; was the defendantpredisposed to commit the crime already.? 
Let's apply this background to the case of John De Lorean as best we can, handicapped as we are by unawareness ofall the evidence. 
On the basis of judicial precedent on entrapment, the questions upon which the De Lorean verdict will hinge are obvious. ( 1 ) Would De Lorean have committed a federal crime without having been aided by an agent provocateur of the U.S. government? In other words, was De Lorean predisposed to the commission of a crime by desperation over imminent bankruptcy? (2) Did federal agents exceed the bounds of providing an "opportunity" and, instead, initiate and incite a cocaine deal involving De Lorean? ( 3) Does the federal government have the right to "run 
around and test innocent people to see if it 
can corrupt them" (in the words of Washing­
ton attorney David Povich)? 
To hear the feds tell it, of course, De Lorean's entrapment defense doesn't look to promising. TIME magazine's recent cover story on the case argues, on the basis of FBI statements and documents, that the original target ofthe drug sting wasn't even De lorean but William B. Hetrick, and thus denies that any entrapment of De Lorean was planned. 
(By some strange coincidence, the FBI admits, Hetrick knew De Lorean.) further, the story states, it was De Lorean who approached the "cooperating individual" (C.I.) in order to in· itiate a drug deal -not vice versa. Thus, TIME, on the basis offBI data, all but dismisses the prospect for a viable entrapment defense for De Lorean. 
Yet, according to NBC News, De Lorean was "drawn into" the deal by his neighbor, the FBI informant (the "C.I." referred to by the FBI in the TIME article?) The informant, of course, later led De Lorean to the hidden microphones and cameras ofthe FBI and DEA. NBC seems inclined to reserve judgment on the entrapment question, on the basis of its findings. 
By now the key issue in the case is apparent. Just who did the initiating? lfthe FBI inform­ant approached De Lorean with "an offer he couldn't refuse" to save his dream car com­pany, and if it can be proved that De Lorean would not have entered the drug trade in the absence of a federal agent provocateur, then that is entrapment, and De Lorean is innocent 
as charged. However, if De Lorean ap­proached the "C.I." -as the FBI maintains he did -first, and originated the idea, then, un­der the law, he's guilty. 
Or is he? 
To me, it is unclear whetherJohn De Lorean would have agreed to a $50 million coke deal had he not had an FBI informant for a next· door neighbor. If De Lorean's lawyers pursue this point -and I suspect that they will ­then this case will surely call into question the very practice of catching criminals by creat­ing tempting circumstances that would not ordinarily exist. If the FBI had never planted an informant who had connections to the California cocaine business right next door to De Lorean, De Lorean may never even have committee the crime for which he has been indicted. 
The FBI, of course, aware of the furor it rightly aroused over its dubious ABSCAM met­hods, and wary of the entrapment issue, acted with care in nabbing John De Lorean. It may indeed turn out that the idea to swing a big coke deal was entirely De Lorean's, and that he would have chosen to save DMC by illicit means even in the absence of federal agents. Then again, it may turn out that De Lorean's neighbor brought up the idea (which the FBI denies), and that De Lorean would not have chosen to go outside the law had he not been tantalized by a can't-miss, get-rich-quick cocaine deal. All this will emerge in the trial, however, so it does little good to speculate now. 
But even if he has a really strong case for entrapment, the odds are against John Z. De Lorean. U.S. courts have made it much easier in recent years for the government to provide the idea, the opportunity, even the means for a crime -and still win a conviction. Is this justice? I think not. Provoking crimes by fabricating phony Aral;> sheiks with grandiose investment plans, medical lab entrepreneurs with complicated Medicare payment schemes, and big money drug financiers wil­ling to assume ownership ofhalfofa flounder­ing car company, doesn't address the problems ofgraft, white-collar crime, or drug 
trafficking. 
Devoting enormous human and financial resources to the manufacturing of crimes while neglecting other federal crimes which are happening right and left indicates, to me, confused priorities. Perhaps the federal law enforcement agencies' job is better defined as trying to prevent crimes rather than trying to 
create them. And ifcreating them is what they 
have done in the case ofJohn De Lorean, then John De Lorean is not guilty. 

Enough talk about liberal education 
After the fleeting joy ofan eight-day respite, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students have now returned to the bondage of their books. No longer freedmen, we are damned to the existentialists' paradise where despair, 


Keith Picher 
Short of Pro~undity 
drudgery, and sobreity prevail. Education is not to be enjoyed; rather, it must be an eternal fount of heartburn for which the weekend· antacid provides only temporary relief. 
Sadly, school seems devoid ofcontentment and serenity. While our professors are partial­ly responsible, we deserve most of the blame since we take school far too seriously. This hyper-concern often springs from the desire for financial security, an understandable reac­tion to today's turbid economic climate. Yet in this rush for well-being, education too often becomes a necessary evil rather than a life· long good. School becomes a savage testing ground where people learn for the grade and 
not for the sake oflearning. Meanwhile educa­
tion becomes relegated to some dusty corner. 
Many are aware of these deficiencies. In a lecture two weeks ago at the Center for Continuing Education, Admiral Hyman Rick­over, a pioneer of the atomic submarine, stressed the importance of education in the humanities. He mentioned that he had even 
accepted theology majors into his nuclear 

training school. Liberal arts champion­extraordinaire, Fr. Hesburgh, elaborated on the essence of college education in a recent homily; it must yield the wisdom necessary for any vocation, not merely for the field of 
our "expertise." 
The most recent editions ofScholastic and Notre Dame Magazine also address the "all work, no play, and no learn" philosophy. And recently on the televisibn program "Campus View" Saint Mary's president,John M. Duggan, mentioned that education cannot succeed when job-procurement crowds out interest in learning. Even the president of the Massac­husettes Institution of Technology noted at last spring's graduation ceremonies that a bet· ter harmony must exist between the arts and the sciences. The value ofliberal education is incessantly lauded by many educators, to the point that many wish the drivel would dry up, since nobody listens and nobody seems to 
care. 

How can liberal education succeed when few are even interrested in learning? Before students become interrested in liberal educa­tion, they must become actively involved in their own schooling. Unfortunately, making education an active rather than a passive ex· 
perience is like improving the economy; everyone's in favor of it, but nobody's quite sure how to do it. Our alumni publication sug­gests that we study to excess because ofNotre Dame horrendous social atmosphere. Others blame shortcomings in the Program ofLiberal studies or the Core Course, two attempts at unifying various ways of knowing, for turning students away from liberal education. Still others blame businesses and graduate schools for assigning an inordinate amount of impor­tance on a lofty grade point average. None of these accusations can obscure the truth, that is, the individual is ultimately responsible for his own education. Not that Notre Dame or . Saint Mary's should ignore the problem; a con­ducive environment is a necessity. Neverthe­less, academic planners are only "stupid children of light" if they honestly believe that a well formed curriculum and required courses will magically transform one­dimensional-Johnny to well-rounded-Johnny. 
When the student decides to educate him· self, with the help of his professors, rather than sit back as a passive recipient. educatiom succeeds. Further, education must not be limited to the classroom, since we live in a world with people, not encyclopaedias Propaganda will not waiver the minds of the young men or women concerned with security in such hazy times. Those who value education are already educating themselves, finding serenity and genuine interest in school while the non-concerned view school as a burden that must be endured. 
God has given all of us the potential to do great things. We fail in education as we fail in life ifwe do not make the most ofthese gifts. 


Editorial Board 

"1/w 0/Jft'IT<'I" i~ ln indepcnden! new,p.lj'l'r puhl"ht·d by the ,tudcnt' of the: Editor-in-Chief...... . .. Michael Monk 
'rll\n,,ty of Notre D.tmc du l..tt" .tnd S.11nt M.try'' <olkgc. It does l'.ot nt'l.e,,.trtly Managing Editor .....Ryan Vcr Berkmocs rdbt the poltt~cs of the .1drnumtr.lt1or' of c1ther institut1011. The new' " rq>ort Executil•e Neu•s Editor. ..... Dave Dziedzic c,I J' .HturJtely and .1~ ohlt,tl\dy .1s pos"bk. hlt!OnJls rq>rcscnt the opt:-tlllll of SMC E.xecutil'e Editor ...... ..... Margaret Fosmoe .l m.qonty of the rJ,turiJI Board Co.nrncnt.trll''. opinions Jnd letters arc the \"it'WS Sports Editor......... . ............... Chrb :\lcedles of thc1r authors. ( olumn Sf'J<t' "J\"Jil.thlt· tt> .dl mcmhn, of the <ommun1ty. Jnd Editorials Editor............ ... Paul ,\1cGinn the frc:c expression of varymg opm10ns on .:ampu:., through letter:., '" en~ounged. Features Editor. .......Tari Brown 
Photo Et.!IMr ... ..Rachel Blount P.O.Hox Q. Notre Danw, IN -t(l556 (.H9) 2.)9-'i505 
Department Manage~s 

Business Manager ......... . .....Tony Aidlo Controller ........... . .......Eric ~chulz Advertising Manager....... ....Chri' Owen Production Manager ........ ......... Maura .\lurph,· Circulation Manager .......................... Ra~ lnglin S}•stems Manager ...........................Bruce Oaklc\ 
Founded November 3,1966 


"'·"· .-.~). ~J~ •.;.;·iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
-------------------------------------··----·-· 
The Observer-Editorials Tuesday, November 9, 1982-page 7 





On nuclear nightmares_ 
I have in my hand a leaflet advertising an anti-nuclear rally and on the leaflet is a drawing of what looks like a hideous monster composed of various nuclear weapons that is threatening a young family. This ima gery 
Brendan Brown 
Inside the Issue 

depicting the nuclear arms race as a monster is not new. Father Berrigan once spent the better part of an essay describing how some fiendish ghoul had simultaneously possessed the United States and the Soviet Union in the form of their respective military industrial complexes. 
All this is to suggest the inherent ir­rationality of the arms race, its incomprehen­sibility, and its absurdity. But descriptions of monsters and ghouls are unlikely to convince the average American, who, more often than not, has shown himself to be better than average, at least better than the averagejesuit. 
The reason images of irrational monsters cannot scare us into our wits, so to speak, or into a rational approach to national security is really so obvious that it seems silly even to state it; the fact is such monsters do not exist. 
Now, ghosts exist, faeries exist, eveu witches exist. But these, like all creatures, act according to certain rules and regulations. Some may appear only at night, others only during a full moon; some are restricted to graveyards, and all of them are strictly forbid­den on university campuses. All of their ac­tions, however bizarre they may seem to us, can be reasonably explained. The point is, there are no irrational monsters whose ac­tions are beyond the scope of human reason and it is absurd to talk ofthem, even figurative­ly. 
The nuclear arms race is the rational result of national goals and perceptions on the part of mostly rational men. It is not some inex­plainable and mysterious monster and those who portray it as such sound quite foolish. 
Our perceptions may be distorted; our fears may be unfounded; and our national goals may be imperious. But the presence of nuclear arms is not the cause of these faults, it is the result. Any discussion of disarmament, then, must take place in a political context. The first job of the peacemaker is to reduce the hos­tilities that result in nuclear arsenals. 
There are many reasons why the United 
States and the Soviet Union should disarm; un­
fortunately there are also many reasons why 
they had better not. It is simply a matter of 
putting the horse before the cart and examin­
ing the sources ofhostility. To begin with, we 
could ask the Soviet Union to formally 
renounce its goal ofworld domination. 
This demand is not as unreasonable as it sounds. After all, if the Soviet Union ever did take over Western Europe and the United States, there would be no one to supply it with the money and technology necessary to keep the socialist world afloat. 
We may have a tougher time convincing the Chinese, who do n< r share our Western heritage, to disarm. Mao was ready to accept the death ofhalf of humanity in a nuclear war for the triumph of world socialism. Clearly, the peacemaker must work to change basic values if he is to make any progress toward disarmanent. 

There are some rather ardent peace ac­tivists who are explicitly or implicitly urging us to adopt a "better Red than dead" philosophy and surrender without a fight, . though they have yet to point out any ap­preciable difference between being Red and being dead. At least this sort of discussion would concentrate on concrete values. 
At bottom, the source ofhostilities is a dis­tortion of certain values. The question is, as humans can we reach a working agreement on some basic values before we blow ourselves up? (It seems even the value of self­preservation is often in dispute.) Enough talk ofnuclear monsters then. The task before us is too difficult and too important to permit indulging in nuclear nightmares. 


P.O. BoxQ 
Entering the 'real world' 
Oppressors Beware 
DearEditor:
DearEditor: there." But that that diminishes the impor­
tion groups, to respective governments ana After reading the article "Genuine Learn­tance and genuineness ofour existence here 
There are times when people get out of 

through publicizing these prisoners' condi­ing Begins Only After Graduation" in the at NO is fallacious. Our business here is to 
line. Sometimes people's beliefs get in the 
tions. November 2 Observer issue, I couldn't help learn. But, because the main business of a 
way ofthe total good, and these people must 
Amnesty is also involved in long term and but feel sorry for editorialist Robert Wack. university is academics, this does not mean 
be made to change their ways before they 
short term campaigns. The aim of the short He has obviously missed out on what Notre that the sole learning experience should be 
cause trouble. Although prison and torture 
term campaign is to gain immediate public Dame has to offer. limited to classroom. 
are undesirable, they seem to be the best 
attention on certain human rights violations. Wack criticizes NO as an "insulated, self­If seniors do indeed feel that when they 
way to control these undesirable people. 
The long term campaign's aim is the applica­contained environment" that teaches little graduate from college they are finished with 
Though discrimination is bad, it seems ob­

tion of continuous pressure on people to of the "true rigors of survival"( i.e., figuring learning, they have missed an integral part of 
vious that it is certain ethnic and religious 
change their oppressive policies. Currently, out bus schedules and routes, dealing with what I think Notre Dame aspires to teach us. 
groups that are always causing the trouble. 
Amnesty has campaignsfor the right ofcon­bums and winos on the subway, and being IfNotre Dame is no more than a diploma ­
Finally, there are people who are against 
scientious objection, refugee rights, stan­stranded in a strange city without any the ticket to success after college -then 
society whom prison and torture cannot 
dard minimum rules for the treament of money) and prepares us even less for how to what distinguishes it from Harvard, Stan­
successfully alter. There is no sense keeping 
prisoners, and against torture and capital cope with them. He says, "(Seniors) as a ford,or any other big name university? I 
people around when all they do is cause 
punishment. whole would probably say that Notre Dame think that there is a substantial difference. It 
trouble. They should be terminated. 
All of these Amnesty objectives and met­has prepared them well for what comes after is this difference which I think that best 
People all around the world believe in the 

hods are fine an<i good, but just how much these four years. This beliefcould no be far­prepares us for "life": the lesson of selfless­
ideas above. These people are called oppres­
are the oppressors threatened? Amnesty is a ther from the truth." ness and philanthropy, community and 
sors. Ifyou don't think you are an oppressor, 
significant threat, with over 100,000 mem­I would hope that this last statement is caring. 
ask yourself how you feel about the people 
bers in a total of 78 countries. Through false. Because, if not, there will have been a If the seniors felt well represented by 
who didn't sign up for the draft. Amnesty In­
adoption groups, Amnesty has led to the wealth of missed opportunities of "genuine Wack's view of what's lacking at Notre 
ternational (AI) is pledged to change these 
release ofover 6500 prisoners ofconscience learning" experiences wasted by this year's Dame, then I think that they,too, have 
oppressors' ways and, even more important­
since 1961. Through Amnesty's campaigns, senior class. Are not experiences such as missed this important lesson. My hope is that 
ly, to stop any oppression of human rights 
it has brought about changes in laws and being a Big Brother or Big Sister they see that it isn't too late to have a real 
that exists in the world today. 
resolutions including, for instance, the adop­worthwhile? Does not volunteering at Logan piece of the Notre Dame pie. Then, rather 
One way to stop oppression would be to 

tion of a twelve article United Nations Center or a local hospital expose us to the than feeling smugness as they step out after 
shoot, knife, or blow up all the oppressors of 
resolution against torture. real burdens of "real life?" Is an experience receiving their diplomas, they will ex­
the world, but Amnesty is opposed to the 
Why then must oppressors beware? Be­such as the ones presented by the various perience satisfaction and, more importantly, 
use ofany violence, so it opts for other met­
cause Amnesty International "demonstrates Foreign Studies programs not a presentation a desire to use the skills they acquired here. 
hods. 
continually to prisoner and government that of the real world? Will not the growth af­Ifthey can leave NO having learned that, 
Fir:>t,Amnesty has to find out where and 

no one is forgotten, that the world cares, that forded by these experiences (and the many then they will be very well prepared for 
how the oppression is taking place -a job 
injustice, mass arrests, mock trials, and others possible) prepare us well for life after whatever they will encounter in "the real 
accomplished by a large research force 
torture will never become just another news graduation? world." 
based all over the world. Once the oppres­
item." I do not refute Wack's assertion that there Sincerely, 
sion has been found, Amnesty approaches it 
Amnesty International's next meeting will is no substitute for the "big classroom out Sue Freeman 
in two ways -individually and in cam­
be held at 4:30, Wednesday, November 10, paigns. 
in the International Student's Lounge,Individually, Amnesty works for the 
located in the basement of Lafortune. All 
release of prisoners ofconscience. Who are

Did the Democrats lose? 
people interested are strongly urged to at· they? They are the "trouble makers" men­
tend. 
DearEditor: programs, the arts and student loans tioned above (who ·cry to cause change in 
Anthony]. Caterine

I must take exception to Mike Monk's threaten the posterity and prosperity of the society without violence). Amnesty gains 
College ofScience

post-election observations (Nov. 4). While I country." 
their release through letter writing, by adop­

respect Monk's right to say what he feels, I The darkness of the latter comments, I 
do not understand how he can be ready to feel, outweigh the advantages of low infla­
bury the Democratic Party in the aftermath tion and a solid Wall Street. Monk says that 
of a 26-seat gain in the House and a seven­the Republicans have done "pretty effective 
seat swing in statehouses. work for just t wo years in office." On the 
In modern history, Monk's claim that the contrary, I protest for the nearly three mil­
party in power at the White House loses lion people who have lost their jobs, for the 
about 20 seats in first term off-year elections widows with Social Security cuts who can· 
is not correct. The Christian Science not afford to send their children to college 
Monitor reports that since Eisenhower, the and for countless others who don't happen 
average loss is 10 scats; Eisenhower lost the to have interests in Wall Street. 
most with 15. In light of this, I argue that a Democratic jobs bills, Monk says, would 
26-seat gain is significant. only mean increased budget deficits. Most 
To a degree, Monk is correct when he says Democrats, myself included, argue that 
that the Democratic Party offered little in costs could be prudently slashed in the 
the way of clear alternatives to defense industry, which seems to berunning 
Reaganomics. But parties are traditionally out of control. If cuts were made, money 
diffuse at mid-term time; it takes a national could be spent to help put Americans back 
convention, a platform _and a presidential to work. 
candidate to get a party speaking in one No doubt many Americans decided to voice. It's not as if the Republicans were give Reaganomics more than a two-year unified, either, in 1982: while a few GOP shot. But millions felt that two years was too candidates maintained staunch support of much and we must stop and re-evaluate our Reagan, many hid for coverfrom his policies. priorities. That's why 26 new Democrats 
Monk fires off the standard Republican will be in the House in January. Let's hope line of accomplishmets: inflation and inter­that the proper coalition -one in touch est rates have gone: down, Wall Street is with American feelings -will be able to 
prospering. But he also mentions "the work with the President to get us on our feet 
dubious economi< future of the again. 
U.S....Unemployment...business have failed Sincerely, at an appalling ratc...Cutbacks in social Bob Gorman 







~j)()~tS=~===~=~=·~~=S===============================T=u=es=d=~='=N=ov~e=m=b=er=9='=19=8=2===p=ag=e==8 
The Observer w111 accept c1ass1fteds Mon­day through Frtday.' 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m However. class1f1eds to appear 1n the next 1ssue must be received by 3 p.m. the busmess day pnor to 1nsert1on All classJfJeds must be prepaid 
e1ther tn person or through the mail. 



Classifieds 
WILL TRADE 1 PENN ST STU FOR ATTN. FreeZing No Californians-Lets NEED 2 or 4 GAs for Penn St Call Week­
R>ders needed to St. Lows. Leave Nov PLEASE HELP! NEED 2 PENN GA PENN ST GA KELL V 277·2940 commiserate together· ATTEND the SF12, return 14 Mar~anne239-5337 MAURAX2244NOTICES days collect 312·887·0700 Call mghts & 
BAY AREA CLUB MEETING WED. 7:30 weekends collect 312-266-0471 Ask tor 
NEED MANY PENN ST GAS WILL PAY 2·0 LaFortune ? Call Lesl1e 2918 Mark
Need Penn State ux!' Call287-3538 I need 1 Penn State student t1c or GA. Call 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287·4082 t261 $60-$100 PER PAIR CALL 287-3148 If you are leavmg for Thanksgiving be­
need ride to LOUISVILLE KY for PLEASE HELP A STUDENT IN DIRE tween 11 am and about 2pm on Wed. NovEXPERIENCED TYPIST · WILL DO ThanksgiVIng call Lee-8693 Need 1 or 2 STUDENT or GA s call Steve $$$$tor PENN STATE STUD OR GA 

NEED OF PENN ST. TICKETS CALO
TYPING; REASONABLE RATES -CALL. at1473 TIX fNEEDTWOOFEITHERCALLMEL 24 and are g01ng to, thru, or near 
DAN AT 8900 AT 1603 Cleveland PLEASE call Tom at 1217 f287-5162 HELP! I need a ride to/from Dayton for MUST get to Cleveland by 6pm Nov 24.
break. Can I leave until Wednesday at 12 I NEED 1 STUDENT TICKET FOR PENN HAVE YOU READ THE MOST FAMOUS Wanted 2 GAs to Penn St Name your STATE PLEASE CALL CINDY 7092 NEED MONEY? SELL ME YOUR STU­
Will share usual Andy 8692/8697 

WALL ON THIS CAMPUS? DO YOU pnce 6849 after 1 0 pm DENT TICKETS TO THE PENN STATE THANKS TO MIKE. NANCY, NEED A HAIRCUT BEFORE YOU ARE 
GAME! Thts IS non-taxable 1ncome just MARYBETH. STEVE AND THE REST DEPORTED? DOES YOUR MOTHER NEED PENN STATE GATIXCALL 1173 CALL 1627 watttng to be yours! At 3075! Repeat· OF OUR CELEBRATTION GROUP. IT DANCE ON TABLES IN A COCKTAIL 3075!! WAS A GREAT 21ST MARRIOTTS LOUNGE? IF YOU ANSWERED YES TO FOR SALE help need Penn St llx student or GA Call Need B1lly Sqwe tickets real WILL NEVER BE THE SAME WE HAVE NEED PENN ST GAs BIG TIMEt $$$ 
SQUIRE ANY ONE OR MORE OF THESE QUES­
Steve 8670 or 8681 bad Anyone wtth llckets please call $$$$ HELP! PAY BUCKS TO IT I MORE
WILL BIG FOR DO AGAIN. NEED TIONS CALL TODAY FOR AN AP­Dav1d 277 -3823 PENN ST GAs x1738 PRACTICE --MIKE. THE ITAllAN GENE 
POINTMENT: GUYS $4. GIRLS $6 PLEASE! NEED PENN ST STUDENT KELLY
Techmcs RS-631 TAPE DECK w/Dolby 

MICHOLE AT 7850 TIX DESPERATELY. Will pay$, call Btll Need Penn State hx Call J1m at 3342 DESPERATELY NEED PENN ST GA 287-3538 TIXS.PETE 232·1466 Here is clue no 2· He ran on the field after TYPING · PROFESSIONAL AND EX· I need 2 GAs for Penn State. Call 289-the game at PITT; 1f the LIONS w1n Sal., 
$145call1178 
FOR SALE. 2 PENN ST GAs PRICE 

PERIENCED IN ALL PHASES OF HELP a poor pre-med whose genetics 9304 IF YOUVE GOT THE TIX. I,VE GOT THE hell feel hke -.-­
FOR BOTH STARTS AT $100 CALL TYPING 2 miles from NO. Call Sue 277-flies got Into the radiation lab, grew to BUX! $70-$100 for patrs of Penn St GAs. 3878 1645 be eight teet tall, got even for me FAMILY CANT COlAE. Have 4 Penn The betler the seats, the better the $$$ Ladtes. Rob, The Love Machine,needs a 
wetchlng them in their private Tix. Will sacrifice Call Mike at 3493 after Call Rob. 3288 tuneup for h1s birthday this Thurs. Call 
"chromosomal duplication activities" 8643 More info tomorrow
11 PM by calling me a voyeur and then Future wealthy. •nfluential Politition w1th proceeding to EAT MY PARENTS NEED 4 GAs AND 1 STU. TIC FOR no scruples 1n need of up to 5 Penn St. Dear LJtlle K Bear, The BIG DAY 1S ap­
LOST/FOUND \1'---_TIC_K_E_Ts_____. 
PENN STATE G.A. TIXI Not only IS the PENN ST CALL KATHY AT 1833 G.A. s. Favors never forgotten! Jam1e proach~ng. Please don·t say no. I love College of Sc1ence tak1ng me to court, but 232-0550 you. The B1g K Bear LOST-l.Jght brown Jockey Jacket 1n AB my parents w1ll shoot me I need !IX! Call 
NEED 4 GAs AND 1 STU TIC FORHEY I got two count em two gorgeous

hne the Fr~day before Break. If you have Laur~e at 7730 or 7983! PENN ST CALL KATHY AT 1833 Desparate:Need 4 GA"S "'enn St $$$ Fagan is three t1mes a lady!!!!And ts the
gals comtng from the golden midwest tn 

or heard of anyone who may have found tt t605 Mark · fa~rest. fa~rest. fa~rest of them all. Go SEC­
search of exciting t1mes at the PENN ST

could you please call 1741 or br~ng 11 by NEED TWO TICKETS TO PENN STATE Help!! Need 2 GAS and 1 STUDENT ftk TION ONE SOUTH WALSH 
GAME and I Need Two GAS and MONEY 

328 Grace before 11 gets cold outs1de GAME WILL PAY $$$11! CALL LINDA AT forPENNST Call1193 WANT TO ESCAPE NO FRIGIDITY?
IS NO OBJECT AT ALL callmark at 3244 4418. That"s nght. Penn St. game IS go1ng to be DO· 
Lost one black and gold cross pen TIX-2-PENN ST. Call288-7010 real cold. So While you snuggle up to your You·re 18-just 1n lime for L.G. Have an
WILL PAY BIG MONEY FOR 4 PENNengraved Daniel J. 0 Hare if found please STATE GA TIX. CALL NEED 2 GAS & STUD PENN STATE honey, warm and cozy indoors, my 3 awesome B-da y 
312·565-5959 return to 217 grace or call Dan at 1858 TIX! BIG BUCKS CALL 1552 HAVE YOU GOT ANY PENN ST. GAS? lnsh-fanatic frtends can keep your seats The Group 
COLLECT AND ASK FOR STEVE HOW ABOUT SELLING THEM TO ME? 

warm at NO stadium. Not only that. they"llLONGLEY.
LOST: Silver cha1n/small Sliver cross HELP' GRANDPARENTS DEFECTED CALL3351 IF INTERESTED hne your pockets wtth some b1g-t1me (Thurs ·Between Lib. & Huddle) ph 1739 FROM RUSSIA IN TIME TO SEE PENN cash And s1nce my fnends are leprac· I LL MAKE YOU AN OFFER YOU CANT
I need Penn State tickets! Student or GA. 
I w1ll pay anyth1ng for Penn St. Gas or Stu 

(Joe) ST NEED 4 PENN ST TIX VERY BAD­hauns it would be aga~nstthe luck of the REFUSE! MY GODFATHER IS COMING TIX call Tom 8539 Mehssa x 1308 
LY! CALL DAVE AT 1914 lnsh not to partake 1n thiS proposttion. TO THE PENN STATE GAME FOUND: Green case of cassett tapes HELP! NEED 3 STUDENT TIXI CALL NEEDS GA. S. BELIEVE ME.
Need 2 G.A tix for Penn State game

found on New York 1 Metro bus that went I Need 2 PENN STATE GA" s Please call MONEY NO OBJECT! NEED 6 30yrd DIANEAT79831 WONT BE SORRY IF YOU HELP HIM
Parents want to see ftrSl NO game

from New York to South Bend on Sunday. JeH at 1764 LINE OR BEITER AT LEAST 4 TO­OUT CALL TRACEY AT 284·4379
Please call Nancy 4449 SMC 

Oct. 31 Call Bill6718 GETHER ANYTHING FOR PENN ST. FOR SALE: 2 PENN ST. GAs CALL284­I Need PENN STATE StudentTtx Please TXS. CALL SMITIY AT x1075 5258 St. Edward s Cent en mall!! St Edward s
Wanted: 2 GAs to Penn St Name your

TOILET PAPER WAR'! I lost a hat wh1le call JeH at 1764 Centenntal!!! St Edward's Centenmal!!! 
pr~ce. 6849 after 10 pm 

greettng the team at the matn ctrcle It was See Add Abovelll St. Edwards Centennial!!! St Edward"s a platd lnsh cap, of htgh senttental value NEED Penn State GAs MUCH $$ Call Centenn1al!!!
NEED PENN STATE GA TIX CALL 1173

Please call 277·1809 if you found it sat 277·7529 Must Have Txslll SEE ADD ABOVE PERSONALS mght 
help need Penn St tix student or GA Call For Sale One Penn St. Sludeny 11cket $35 DESPERATELY NEED PENN STATE The Beaux Arts QuestionIll

FOUND· one set of keys outs1de of Gal­Steve 8670 or 8681 St Ed·s Centenmal Week November
TIXS CALL STEVE 8267 Call Paul1947 or 1945

VIn. call Dan at 239-662410 claim 13-21 TALK IT UP I IIIII! 
Whet is Bed Taste?
What was that? You sa1d you wanted to Need 4 Penn St GAs or Stud Tkts Need many PENN ST Ga s or student hx Eating a dining hall taco and finding a

LOST· one small brown carry-on of AD&D become tnstantly nch? Then buddy. I m LIVE MUSIC, GUEST CELEBS SENIOR 
call Paul 3405 

desperately Call J1m 277·1773$$$$$$ Mexican._.
books before break If found call Dan at your ticket. as long as y all have two tor CLASS BLOCK PARTY THIS FRI NOV Locking a wheelchair to a lamp post...
239-6624 Reward offered' rne. Two Penn st GAs, that IS, and you 
12
Need many PENN ST Ga s or student IIX

NEED 1.2. OR 3 STUDENT OR GA Taking a girl from Clay Middle Schoolknow my mass1ve mounds of money w1ll 
call Paul3405 

PENN STATE TIX MIKE x3571 to the Beaux Arts Ball.••
Browmsh-orange wallet poss1bly 1n the be more than enough to make you w1sh to 
JESUIT VOLUNTEER CORPS w1fl be on park•ng tot of Br~dgetes on Saturday n1ght sell them Ia you Call Extremely Well To 
NEED 2 PENN STATE STUDENT TIX campus to recrUit students on Thursday,
Need PENN ST TIX real bad W1ll pay Bad Taste KEEP THE MONEY-NO questions Do C1ndy Lou -·--Lou at 2948 
PHIL 1764 November 11, from 9 a.m to 4 p.m m the asked-I JUSt want the wallet back' NANCY 
GOOD BUCKS for 2 student TIX and 2 VSO RESOURCE . ROOM Call VSO
GA s Call Gary at1152 Friday, November 124263 HELP' Need Penn State G A s or student NEED TWO PENN STATE GAS OR STU 1239-5293) to arrange for an appo>nt­uxs Call2773 TIX CALL KEVIN 1629 rnent
Need 3 PENN ST GAs Will Pay B1g TWO BANDSIII The Verbs and The
LOST: GOLD ""OPEN CENTER HEART LOTS OF SENTIMENTAL VALUE IF Desperately need 1 student tic for vts111ng 
Bucks Call Pete 8682 Roomsll Need 1 Penn Stt1cket $$$call 289· 7340 HAPPY BIRTHDAY DUANE YOURE FOUND. PLEASE CALL SHARONA g~rlfr~end lor Penn. St. $$$ Call JeH at 
FINALLY 18 BUT YOURE STILL NOT X4265. THANKS 1026. 
GOTSTA HAVE PENN ST GAs PLEA$E Tickets sold in the dining halls and at 
For Sale· 2 Penn State GAs call Dave LEGAL AS A DRINKING MACHINE 8852 YOURE STORIES ARE ALWAYS HOT FOUND. Blue NO windbreaker 1n HELP! NEED 4 PENN STATE GAS! 
CALL 1738 the door 
AND JUICY BUT TO ME YOURE STILLNEED 1 STUDENT AND/OR 2 GAs FOR
LaFortune last Tuesday or so I sort of PLEASE CALL SHEILA 289-9304 Desperately need 2 or 3 Penn State GAs PENN STATE Call Ted (1 t55) JUST LITTLE BRUCEY 22 SHOTS IS TO FARLEY FOUR WHEEL DRIVE: (Ap1cked If up by m1stake Call Margret at Call Norb at8788 TOO MUCH FOR YOU NOW REMEM· FORMAL APOLOGY FROM THE CADS) 277·0684. Sorry' S1s and her RICH Harvard fr~ends commg BER SUNDAY MORNING WHEN YOU
need 2 Penn State GA s x 11 05 WE RE SORRY NOW GIVE US OUR
out •o see a real football game Need PSU NEED t .2.0R 3 GA TIX FOR PENN ST BLEW CHOW YOU SAW A PARY GIRL STUFFBACK1 
r,x Chns 1181 CALL JIM 277·2736 HELP" Folks DRIVING from MONTANA 
AND THEN YOU CAUGHT HER HOW COULD YOU KNOW SHE WAS FA H S 
,\ FOR RENT to see Penn State game NEED 2 qas Call H1 1 ATTENTION ALL BID GRADS AND
NEEDED 5 Penn St. Stds for VISiting ex­

~
,L-____________________ 277·2630 or 239·5688 Gwyn DAUGHTER BUT THATS OK IT WILL MAJORS BIOLOGY CLUB OtNNER
con and tnends These guys are mean I need 2 Penn St G A s real bad bad bad FADE REAL QUICK CAUSE YOU HATE TUESDAY NOV 9 at 6:00 2ndPlease hetpl Call M1ke 3375 bad bad bad bad! Please call Pal at 8652 
Student Hous1ng · Clean Safe TO WALK WAY OVER TO SMC SOME
FELLOW CALIFORNIANS I NEED ALL FLOOR SOH 
Thank you 

$100/mo. 291-1405 OF OUR PARTIES HAVE BEEN ILL
·OF YOUR N 0 U S C FOOTBALL TICK· FATED BUT ON YOUR BIRTHDAY YOU NEED PENN ST TIX CALL MIKE 287-Bye!
ETS WILL PAY ANY REASONABLE MORRISSEY SOCCER ROLLS QNI Needed to share renr CANT BE HATED HAPPY BIRTHDAY4225 AMOUNT OF MONEY CALL DAN AT Bad? I need 11ckets so bad that •1 hurts' LITTLE RED IS NEXT' THIS IS THE 
Unfurnished Apt located on Jefferson DUANE YOURE A WILD ROOMMATE 
t858 Please call J1m at 8641 tf you can help YEAR HUNK! 
"'EED2 PENN STATE GAS CALL x1610 

and S. 26th St GR male student wants to RICK
relieve my pa1n ThanksASK FOR RICH share 2·bedroom apt. $120 month plus 

HYPNOTIZING, MESMERIZING,electnc1ty. 234-9599 MR. JOHNNY-BOG Let 11 snow! The
INOEPENDENTL Y WEAL THY SIS PLEASE HELP' NEED 2 PENN STATE CAPTIVATING. AMUSING, EXCIT­
WANTED 1 OR 2 Penn State llckets. stu· needs 1 PENN STATE GA or STUD BIG 
GAS FOR MOM AND GRANDMOM BIG Pa1ama Sk1er IS ready! . INGIII See Tom Deluca. celebrated hyp­
dent or GA. FRANK 277-8649 TIME MONEY IS no problem CALL Ross 
$$$ CALL FRANK AT 8225 notiSI Nov 11 at 8 pm 0 Laughhn (SMC) at 1898 Want to be a star? Want to be diS­$1
I NEED 1 PENN ST TICKET OF ANY KIND Please call Bob 277·6880 

WANTED 

PLEASE HELP' NEED PENN ST STU· covered? Are you sure that all you need is NEED MONE. Y: Will pay b1g $$ tor any DENT TIX! CALL MAGGIE x361 t your chance on stage? Well, now s your Attention SMC Freshmen Come meet NEED RIDE TO MINNEAPOLIS MN. (OR chance' OPEN Auditions for EIGHT one your Freshman Council Wed. Nov 10th
llckets, student or GA Call Blll2197 Want to be nch and famous, or at least
AREA) FOR THANKSGIVING WILL DESPERATELY need 3 STUD. hx for act plays Wednesday. Nov to; and 9-fOpm in Reg1na South. Refreshments
r~ch? I need 10 Penn StatettcRets and w1llSPLIT COST CALL STEVE 1027 My voluptuous little SISter st1il needs Penn. St Colleen 6825 Thursday. Nov 11. 1n The Underground prOVIded
pay much $$$for them, even more tor 4or PENN ST ux. stud & GAs Were talking 1n WaShington Hall Watch for the ad 1n
more together Call Paul at 1077
RICH alumnt need four Penn GAs Call At least 6 Penn State GAs. Tuesdays Observer! Be There!!! Desperately need 2 GAs for the Penn St
BIG$$$ (and no date) JOE 1652 FOR SALE 283·3307 Call Dave 3673 Game I w1ll pay b1g bucks Call Anne
Helplll LITILE BROTHER NEEDS TWO t NEED 3 PENN ST TIX PLEASE CALL STUDENT OR GA.'S FOR PENN SlATE. Section 5 says HAPPY B·DAY ZIGMAN 1 x4366 (SMC) Need ride to Kansas C1ty for Thanksgtv­I need PSU IIXS GAs or Stud Calf 3673 
,,
ERIC AT 3663 PLEASE CALL KEVIN 8817 
•ng Will share usual Call Dentse 1320 Moose are elegant. huh? I thought they 
HELt'' I NEED ONE STUDENT OR GA MARGARET. were merely tnately funny HELP' I need USC t1ckets Please call TICKET FOR PENN STATE 1 AM WIL· 
SAVE YOURSELF THE HEADACHE NEED! TWO PENN ST TICKETS PAY 
ONE CALL WILL GET YOU TOP DOL· GOOD MONEY CALL MIKE x8705 THANKS FOR THE USE OF YOUR 3156. LING TO 00 ANYT:~ING FOR THIS JACK WHEN CAN !"RETURN IT? Happy B~rthday Joanne (Kilometer)
LAR for PE.NN STATE GAS call 272· Noonan! As for all you snakes at f\J D vtlle. 
7152 HELPIII NEED 6 GA OR STUDENT CALL JOHN AT 1528 CHUCK 288-0725 
NEED RIDE TO NYC/ ll AREA FOR If you ve already met or would hke to meet
TICKETS FOR PENN STATEIII 
THANKSGIVING---CAN LEAVE TUES NEED MANY PE.NN ST GAS WILL PAY Joanne g1ve her a call and make the f1rst
DESPERATELY NEED GA TIX FOR Brothers want to see one game I Please 
NOV23RD CALL JOHN t'3510 OR 8573 PENN STATE CALL 6803 BIG BUCKS Watch for the EXORCIST HE IS com1ng day of her 19th year a great one
call Ann at 33680 • Thanks!Sti'o 
Bv The ( J!Jserl'er and Tbe Associated Press 
. M ' . .
Satnt ary s swrmmmgand diving team will have Interhall deadlinefor 1 H basketball, Club basketball, a meeting for all interested students tonight at l 0 in the AAF lounge. (irad ba~ketball, IH hockey and Open squash is tomorrow. For more -The Observer. imformation contact the ~VA office at 259·61 00. -The Obsen•er. 
Men's crew club members must attend a meeting Fellowship ofChristian Athletes will hold 
tonight at 8:30 in LaFortune. The topic will be a winter workout a meeting tomorrow night at H in the Library Lounge. ND Women's schedule. -Jbe Observer. tennis coach Sharon Petro will be the featured speaker. FCA promotes fellowship among athletes and coaches hoping that this will be shared with the larger {'Ommunity. All are invited to altend. 
-The Ohserve1·. 

SMC volleyball team lost its match with Valparaiso last night at the Angela Athletic Facility S-15, 8-1 S, 1 S-4, and 11-15. The ND-SM C ski team will hold a mandatory meeting for Belles travel to IU-PU-Ft. Wayne tomorrow to close out their regular all members and prospective members in LaFortune's Little Theatre 
season. -The Observer. 
tomorrow at-; p.m. -The Obseruer. 
AP Top 20 
The Top Twenty colleqe football teams 1n The As­sociated Press poll. w1th f1rst-p1ace votes 1n paren­theses. th1s season s recoras and total po1nts Po1nts 
based on 20·19·18·17 etc Notre Dame opponents  
are italicized  
Georg1a (33)  9·0·0  1150  
So Method,sq19J  9-0·0  1126  
Ar~zona State (51  -9-0-0  1049  
4 Nebraska t 1)  8-1·0  984  
5 Penn State (1)  8-1-0  955  
6 LSU  7-0·1  865  
7 Washtngton  8·1-0  779  
8 Pitt  7-1-0  765  
9 Flor~da Slate  7·1-0  686  
10 Arkansas  1·1-0  572  
11 Clemson  6·1·1  531  
12. UCLA  7-1-1  471  
13 Notre Dame  6-1-1  393  
14 Michigan  7-2-0  381  
15 Oklahoma  7-2-0  364  
16 Southern Cal  6-2-0  358  
17 Alabama  7·2·0  323  
t8 Maryland  7-2-0  239  
t9 West Vtrgtnta  7-2-0  211  
20. Texas  5-2-0  167  



The Observer Berth in 

Belles s-weep NAIA tourney 
Tuesday, November 9, 1982 -page 9 

continuedfrom page 12 
But he wasn't. After halftime, Faust sent Karcher in to the game. While he completed a 5.3-yard pass to Joe Howard, the sophomore also tripp<·d over his own feet, dropped the snap, and failed to move the of­fense anywhere. 
"It was a head coaching decision," said Hudson. "I supported the idea, but I wasn't sure about the timing of it." 
Again. rather than let the obvious slap in the face get to him, Kiel became more determined. When the team needed yardage, when the game was on the line, Faust went back to him. Just as he had done so many times before. 
"There was a time when Coach Faust .didp't have confidence in Blair," Hudson says. "But he does now." 
And well he should. 
After being benched against 
.. . NFL 

continuedfrom page 12 
and a kick in the pants for the home town fans. 
No good. It just won't work. Trying to mend this mess with that kind of thinking is like putting a Band Aid on a broken leg. 
The football strike reaches a sig­
nificant milestone this week when it 
hits 50 days-the length oflast sum­
mer's baseball walkout. The dif­
ference then was that baseball could 
wipe out a third ofits season and still 
have I00 or so games left for each 
team. That's enough to produce a 
reasonable season. Football doesn't 
enjoy that schedule edge. 
ColleCt ltillora-Oolle&e Gradl 1100•1 .&• ADY orriCII. Put nur collete detree to work. 
AI u. Amy Officer.JO'II.'lldevelopJOV abUiUa to or&•aise, train, 
u.d motivate people. f011. '11 find that your 411.tia and enerieacea will be challllll:iUU.d aatilfriDt. You'11 beain with with a I 1 week trainiaC pro&raa which includes 
Officer Cu.4i4ate School. Upon IUCCIUf'll.l Cet'lllpletiOD. Of the trainin& , JOll lril\ be oommiuioned 
u a Second Lie11tenut. You mun be a U.s. cb11en or lawfully admitted for 'Dirmanent naidence and 1te \etwNn ,, 9 and &9Jeus old. Tile Arm:I 1.11 also HeJr:lllC men with 40llegeexperience ud u interest in flying to apply for the Army Warrant Officer l'litM frainint program. 
ror mQre information about 'becomin& an Army Officer or Army Warrant Officer pilot, contact· 
en.John i Cooney


(lltl na-aasc; 
(call collect) llJIY-II ALL YOU CAB II 
Oregon, he came hack to throw for 220 yards -five short of his career best-as the Irish beat Navy, 27-10. 
"Yeah," they said, "but he can't 
throw the ball long. He just isn't a 
major-college quarterback." 
In Pittsburgh, Kiel finally had a chance to get in a slap in the face of his own. He threw a 55-yard pass as well as it could possibly be thrown on the now-famous flea-flicker play. He hit Larry Moriarty in full stride on a fullback-bomb. In the last two weeks, he has rolled out, he has 

~ ................_....,...,...,...~.~ .............~..,.. ........~~..,....--.........-.~--·..,......,. ~ 
~  ATTENTION:  ~  
~  ARTS &LETTERS STUDENTS  ~  
~  Seeking EMPLOYMENT after graduation  ~  
~  ~  
~  ATTENDTHEPRESENTATIONOF  ~  
~  PROCTOR AND GAMBLE  ~  
~  ~  
~  featunng its  i  
~  CUSTOMERS-SERVICES OPERATIONS  ~  
~ i  lUES·, NOV· 9 7p~  124 Hayes-Healy  ~ ~  
~  *Learn about OPPORTUNITIES  ~  
~  in the BUSINESS for the  ~  
\  ARTS & LETTERS GRAD·  i  
\  \  
~  All classes welcome  l  

r....~~~......~..,... .........,........... ...,.....,.......,...~~-~ ...............,...._.......,....._....~, 
0 
.._K..:=I:::::NG:u.S~C£:::--;L~.A 
R • 



WINE TASTING 
Sample ouer ISO Different Wines at 

HA WORLD OF WINES Ill" 
presented by 

KING'S CEllAR for the Benefit of the Muscular Dystrophy Association $5 Donation for wine and cheese 
(all you care to try) 



THURS. NOV.II 5:00p.m. to9:30 p.m. NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 
For tickets or information call .233-4603 or uisit any Kings Cellar 

or Convenience liquor location 

dropped back. He has thrown long, he has thrown short. He has run well, and punted with amazing con­sistency. 
Don't you wonder what "they" are saying now? 
I know at least one man -a little 
overweight, with a few too many 
beers in him. and wearing an ob­
noxious green 'Irish' jacket ­
expressed my own feelings quite 
well. 
"The kid's one hell of a quarter­
back." 

i-i"h;"T'homG'S-M"or;sGC'i'ViY"OTiiOireoame-1 I Prvsvnts 1
I ucontvmporarv ISSCIVS Lvcturv Svries ... 1 Wednesday nights 8:15·9:1 5 I I Rm. 115 o·shag Hall I I Q and A Period following presentations I I ttov. 10 II ULaw and Evolution·· 1 

1 Dr. Edward Murphy I 
'-H.D. Law School I 


~~---------~--------------J 
ot::, 
~~ ~~ 


o" ~ 

~~q' ~~~ 

ffiixed Drink Night 9pm--3am 
11.00 
GO IRISH, SEAT PENN ST! 
••••"·.._


···~:'f. 




CORBY'S 
''Tuesday Night Special" "Dollar Week" 

ByJUDY McNAMARA 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's tennis team swept the Indiana National Associa­tion of Inter-Colligate Athletics ( NAJA) state tournament last month and earned a berth in the National tournament in Kansas City next June. 
The Belles were victorious in all 
six singles matches and all three 
doubles matches to win the (NAJA) 
finals which were held on October 8 
and 9 in l'ranklin, Ind. Singles players 
winning their matches were, No. I 
seed Debbie I.averie, No. 2 Maureen 
fitzgerald, No . .3 Ann Huber. No. 4 
Heather Tonokw. No. 5 Kristin Be­ck and No. 6 Kim Kaegi. Doubles winners were, No. I Debbie Laverie and Maureen fitzgerald, No. 2 Ann Huber and Heather Tonofew, No. 3 Kristin Beck and Allison Peller. 
"I really didn't know what to ex­pect from the girls this season, but I'm very pleased after ending up state champions," commented Head CoachJohn Killen. 
Killen attribute~ his team's 
success to the caliber ofeach player. 
"Most of the girls have played in 
major tournaments in high school 
and were ranked in their state~.·· 
"My goal for the national cham­pionships in June is to place in the top-10, but a top-five tlnish would be very nice," admitted Killen. 

The team plans to improve during their winter lay-off by working out and playing tennis once or twice a week. 
"I have really enjoyed coaching these hard-working and competitive girls," Killen added, "Angela is a lovely facility to work and coach the girls in also." 
The Saint Mary's team finished the season with a dual meet record of 5­
3. Killen b optimistic in his outlook for next year. We've got only one senior and one junior on the squad this year. If I can keep all the other players interested and healthy, we will have quite a good team next season and in the seasons to come." 
... Kiel 



... 
The Observer Tuesday, November 9, 1982-page 10 

Randy Wright, the starting quarterbackfor AP Photo on left) Wright, who was a transfer the Wisconsin Badgers, was upended last studentfrom Notre Dame, was removedfrom Saturday. Catching a pass on a trick play, the field with a neck brace on the am­Wright landed on his neck on the tackle. (see bulance, (see AP Photo as right) ending his 

• • .Pink 
continuedfrom page 12 
who watched his high school career. He was listed in the Top SO by the Football News and the Top 100 by The Sporting News in all of America as a blue-chip recruit prospect. 
Joe Terranova, the Detroit native 
regarded as the top assesor in 
America in high school talent by 
many, called Pinkett "the finest tail­
back to enter Notre Dame since 
Vagas Ferguson (Notre Dame's all 
time leading rusher with 3,472 
yards)." 
On Saturday, Pinkett moved into 
second place on the Notre Dame list 
for most yards gained by a freshman. 
His 354 yards so far this year 
surpassed the 350 gained in 1976 
by ...you guessed it, Ferguson. The 
756 yards gained by Jerome 
Heavens in 1975 might be out of 
reach, though. 
When you think of the 5-9, 1 75­pound Pinkett, you undoubtebly have to think of his 4.5 speed in the 
40. To many, he may just seem like a pure speed runner good only for outside sweeps. 
Yet, the most outstandingasset for him is his amazing strength. He can currently bench press 370 pounds and squat over 500 pounds. 
"For a young man of his sizt: and 
age, it is just a great credit," praises 
Notre Dame's :-trength coordinating 
coach Gary Weil. "I was extremely 
impressed when I saw him lift for the 
first time. He's second among all our 
running backs in how much he can 
lift. (Larry) Moriarty, of course is 
first (with a bench press of 485 
pounds), and he's the strongest per­
son ever at Notre Dame. 
"The training is a big asset to his 
overall performance on the field. 
First it makes him more effective in 
that weight training tends to make a 
ballcarrier more explosive, and 
second, all that upper and lower body strength leads to a decrease in the possibility ofan injury. Obvious­ly, he must have got started on them early. He's just going to be a great one." 
"I staned lifting in the eighth grade since a couple of high sc:hool coaches recommended it," explains Pinkett. "I was very skinny and I felt that I needed some meat on my bones. Once I started, it just became a normal regualar thing for me. 
"It has molded my future. I owe a 
lot ofmy success to it." 
He may also have owed his second 
touchdown in the Pitt game to it. 
While his speed and elusiveness was 
evident in the 76-yard run, his 
power was also evident on his six­
yard score as he broke a couple of 
tackles before diving into the end 
zone with a defender on his back. 
"What I expected this year was to get in perhaps during a blowout game and participate on special teams," admits Pinkeu. "My inten­tion was ju~t to be patient. But I sort of surprised mysdf when l was able to move to the the. No. ~ tailback spot. I didn't expect anything like this, though." 
lie hasn't been the only one that's been surprised. 
"That little number 20 wa.., ~orne­thing" said an amazed Pitt Head Coach Foze Fazio, after the game. 
As Pinkelt";. own head coach Ger­
ry Faust might put it. he was heck on 
wheels. 
Sterling, however, may he the best word. 
r,..-,~-..-~ 
~ ....,.,.>:'.~.~.;.,.,......~; ·_ 'I 
.,.. . Rocco's Hair 1 
1


I[~ "Styling •.-~. 
v •.~1 I
~· 
~ ~  I . •531 N. M1ch1gan St.,  . ...  
1i  · South Bend Phone 133-4957  'I  


laa• -m r 1 r n•n:swe>. 

IheJOtserver======================================~== 




~~~.~~============================T=u=e=sd=a=y='=N=o=v=em==b=e=r=9='=19=8=2====p=ag=e==l=l 
Campus 
•12:10 
p.m. -Art Noontalks, "Nigerian Naturalism: The Art of Life," Douglas Bradley, An· nenberg Auditorium 

•4:30 
p.m. -Biology Seminar, "General and Morphological Evolution in the Fox Sparrow and Related Species," Dr. Robert Zink, Galvin Auditorium 

•6 
p.m. -Biology Club Dinner, South Dining Hall 

•7, 
9, & 11 p.m. -Film, 'The Marx Brothers," "The Coconuts," and "Pigskin Capers," Chautau­qua Coffeehouse, s1 

•7, 
9, & 11 p.m. -Film, "Seems Like Old Times," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Sopho­more Class, S 1 

•7 
p.m. -FLOC Meeting, LaFortune Student Center 

•7 
p.m. -Aa: LBusiness Society Presentation, by Procter and Gamble, 124 Hayes-Healy 

•7:30 
p.m. -Meeting, Ladies of Notre Dame, Library Auditorium 

•7:30 
p.m. -Shock of the New Series, "Threshold of Liberty," and at , 8:30 p.m., "The View from the Edge," Annenberg Auditorium 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Writig in the Classroom and in the Newsroom," Dr. Roy Peter Clark, 123 Nieuwiand Science Hall, Sponsored by American Studies and The Observer 

•9 
p.m. -Right to Life Presentation, and Slide Show, Holy Cross Party Room, Sponsored by Holy Cross Academic Commission 


T.V. Tonight 


ACROSS 29 Commercials 1 Loses speed 32 Open wide 
6 Spanish 33 Auricular 
painter 35 Amount of 10 Mideast gulf assessment 14 Book of the 37 Arab 
Apocrypha chieftains 15 Thought 39 Wrath 16 Depend 40 Gaze rudely 17 School for 41 Stanza 
Jeanne 42 Hodgepodge 18 Anderson 44 "I cannot 
of WKRP tell-" 19 A Gardner 45 Inhabitant: 20 Northwest suff. 
capital 46 Place for a 23 Spanish toastmaster 
cheers 48 Heraldic 24 Amerinds silver 25 Solution 50 Dune stuff 28 Handle 51 USSR sea 
The Daily Crossword 

©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
•· 

52 Pool 21 Pianist champion Peter 
57 Dice play· 22 Lacerates er'sword 25 Tropical 
58 Tops plant 
59 Loos or , 26 Entitles Bryant 27 Cathedral 61 Cityon sight theOka 28 Buenos­
62 Routines 29 "-of Two 
63 Brilliance Cities" 
64 Stagger 30 Singer 65 Opening Bobby for coins 31 Driving 66 "Prithee,­hazard birdcall" 34 Gleason character DOWN 36 Immediately 1 Sault­38 Typeof Marie chair 2 Nessor 43 A Roosevelt Lomond 47 Closes in, 3 Reed poetically instrument 49 Author 4 Certain Sabatini textile 50 Fishing workers line 5 "Tatier" 51 Nuclear founder tryout 6-Marner 52 Motherof 7 Ancient a filly land 53 15A: Fr. 8 Abjures 54 Familiar 9 Blemishes with 10 Extents 55 Bias 11 Actor Bruce 56 Laurel or 12 Ms. Logan Musial 13 Comedian 57 Pro Louis 60 From-Z 

\ ----~ 
6:00p.m. 6:30p.m. 
7:00p.m. 
7:30 
8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10:00p.m. 
llp.m. 
11:30p.m. 12:00a.m. 
16 NewsCenter 16 28 Newswatch 2H 34 3·2·1 Contact 16 NBC Nightly News 22 CBS News 28 ABC World News Tonight 34 Makiatg It Count 16 M•A•s•H 22 Laverne & Shirley 28 joker's Wild 34 The MacNeiVLt:hrc;r Report 16 All In The Family 22 Family Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 
16 Father Murhpy 22 Special Movie Presentation 28 Happy Days 34 Nova 28 Laverne and Shirley 16 Gavilan 22 CBS Tuesday Night Movie 28 Three's Company 
34 MYSTERY! 28 9To 5 16 St. Elsewhere 28 Hart to Hart 34 Sound Festival 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 2H 34 Dick Cavett Show 16 Tonight Show 22 Quincy & McMillan & Wife 28 ABC News Nightline 28 ABC Late Night News 
Observer note_____ 
Yesterday's Inside Monday column was written by News Editor Tim Verceilotti, not by News Editor Bob Vonderheide as was stated in yesterday's paper. The Observer regrets this error. 
• 
... 

bOir gome new bQood. 
-""-.::':" 
-7.":*"

Jieed mottvated. taQettted gta~~ membetts attd Oltftsts. ·· · · /// " · ''" --' -----­
gee C[)aMeQQ J!oQatt at g.Ql. o~ (~aQQ 2~)-7YJ5 ~m 9-5 cA gJte(lt 0pp0/tWt\ity t0 get it\Vo!!.Vedl 
4t~OQQOQQQOQOOOOQQ~OQOOOOOOOO~l200000QDOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOQQOOOOOOOOQOOOOO~OQQ!QOOOQOOOOOOOOOOOOOCe 
~----~-------~~------------~--------------~-­
Tuesday, November 9, 1982-page 12 
' Sports 

... 
game will be regionally televised by ABC. See story at right. (Photo by Rachel Blount). 
Notre Dame 13th 
Georgia takes top spot in poll 
By HERSCHEL NISSESSON 
AssociatedPress 

The Georgia Bulldogs, seeking 
their second national championship 
in three years, moved into first place 
yesterday in The-Associated Press 
college football poll, while Pitt 
dropped from t1rst to eighth by 
losing to Notre Dame, which 
climbed back into the Top Twenty. 
Georgia, Southern Methodist and 
Arizona State, the only three un­
beaten and untied major college 
teams, grabbed the top three spots 
in this week's rankings, followed by 
Nebraska and Penn State, while LSU jumped from 11th to sixth -its hig­hest ranking since 1972 -and Arkansas skidded from fifth to lOth. 
Last week, Pitt was first, SMU second and Georgia third, only three points behind the Mustangs. But Georgia swamped Florida, last week's No.20 team, 44-0 and received 33 of 59 first-place votes and 1,150 ofa possible 1,180 points from a nationwide panel of sports writers and sportscasters. 
SMU, which defeated Rice 41-14, received 19 first-place votes and 1,126 points, while Arizona State, a 
30-16 come-from-behind winner 
over Oregon State, received five 
firsts and 1,049 points. The Sun 
Devils were fourth a week ago. 
Nebraska moved up from t1fth to fourth with one fir_st-place ballot and 984 points for a 48-10 triumph over Oklahoma State. Penn State received the other No.I vote and 955 points after crushing North Carolina State 54-0. 
LSU was sixth with 865 points following a 20-10 licking of Alabama, which dropped the Crim­son Tide from eighth to 17th. Wash­ington rebounded from its only loss ot the season and edged UCLA 10-7, climbing from lOth to seventh with 
779 points, and dropping the Bruins from ninth to 12th. 
Pitt, a 31-16 loser to Notre Dame, plummeted from first to eighth with 765 points. Florida State rose from 12th to ninth with 686 points by routing South Carolina 56-:?6. Arkansas a 24-7 loser to Baylor, rounded out the Top Ten with 572 points. 
The Second Ten consists of 
Shortened NFL season 'band-aid solution~ 
By HAL BOCK 
Associated Press 

Forget the National Football 
League season. Kiss it goodbye. 

Even if by some miracle Samuel 
Gompers Garvey and J.P. Morgan 
Donlan reach agreement on some­
thing more substantive than the 
weather anytime soon, this strike 
has gone too far. 

After two idle months, players 
cannot be expected to return to 
work and overnight supply mid­
season quality performances. Any­
thing less would be cheating the 
ticket-buying public and bill-paying 
nerworks. 

So they will need a week of train­ing, at least. Even that might not be enough to produce high quality football, but at this stage, it would have to do. 
Ifwe have a settleme11t in the next couple ofdays -difficult when the two sides are this far apart aft<;r seven weeks of on and off talks ­the earliest play could resume 
would be Nov. 21. Even with the 
NFL's plan to erase a wild card week 
and the dead week between the con­
ference championships and Super 
Bowl, that still leaves room for just 
eight more games. Added to the two 
they already played, it means a 10­
game season. 

A shortened season is one thing. 
Sixteen regular season games may 
be too long in the first place. But un­
less there's a quick, unexpected end 
to this thing, we're dealing with so 
few games that it threatens the 
credibility of the league. 

Not to worry, says Gompers Gar­
vey. We will pay 16 games, sooner or 
later, even if it means moving the 
Super Bowl into March. . That's nice. Will he be in Green 
Bay, Chicago or New York for the 
Frigid Bowls in the season's peak 
months, January and February? will 
he play home games in warm 
weather sites? Give a little tease to 
towns who don't have franchises ... 
See NFL, page 10 
defending national champion Clem­son, UCLA, Notre Dame, Michigan, Oklahoma, Southern California, Alabama, Maryland, West Virginia and Texas. 
Last week, it was LSU, Florida State, Clemson, Oklahoma, Michi­gan, Southern Cal, West Virginia, North Carolina, Maryland and Florida. 
Besides Florida's demise, North Carolina fell out of the rankings by losing to Clemson 16-13. 
Notre Dame and Texas, which walloped Houston 50-0, both reap­peared after a two-week absence. 

Sterling performances by Pinkett propel Irish 
By LOUIE SOMOGYI 
Sports Writer 

Just over 40 years ago when Frank 
Leahy took over as Notre Dame's 
head football coach, there was one 
thing about him that had already set 
him apart and made people take 
notice. 

He had grown up in a small town 
in South Dakota called Winner ­
quite appropriate for a man who 
won four national championships in 
ll years for Notre Dame. 
This fall, most especially last 
Saturday, somebody else for Notre 
Dame has been living up perfectly to 
his hometown handle. 
You see, freshman tailback Allen 
Pinkett's hometown in Virginia hap­
pens to be named Sterling. 
On the same tundra that a one Dor-SETT used to run wild on, PINK­ett made a national name for himself by rushing for l 12 yards in l 0 carries, including touchdown runs of 76 and six yards. 
"It's still PINK-ett since he's only a 
freshman," jokes ND Sports Informa­
tion Director Roger Valdiserri (the 
man who changed Thees-man into 
Thighs-man), "but if he keeps 
playing like last week, we're going to 
have to change it to Pin-KETT." 
Well, let's not get carried away or 
ahead ofourselves here. Pinkett cer­
tainly isn't letting his sudden success 
get to him. In a week where he has 
been badgered with more questions 
than a teenage girl home from her 
first date, he has remained realistic 
about his future. 
''I'm just taking things one day at a 
time," says the Naional Honor Society student who plans to major in aerospace engineering. "I can't plan what the future holds in my career. The things that have hap­pened to Phil (Carter) and Greg 
(Bell) can just as easily happen to 
me tomorrow." 
Carter, who once looked like a 
Heisman Trophy candidate his soph­
omore year after gaining 499 yards 
in his first three starts, and Bell, who 
gained 165 yards in 20 carries in his 
first full-time start last year, have 
since been victimized by minor and 
major injuries. 
For now, however, things are 
looking up for Pinkett. 
The dre~s rehearsals for Pinkett 
prior to last Saturday had come in 
the previous three game. After 
having been the only Notre Dame 
player to score touchdowns in the 
Arizona and Oregon calamities, 
Pinkett received his chance to start 
two weeks ago against Navy while 
co-captain Carte-r was nursing an in­jury. He responded by rushing for 129 yards in 27 carries, including a sparkling 12-yard run for a touch­down. 
"Very good," came the general response from the nation and the campus, "but that Pitt defense is going to t;at that poor freshman alive." 
But it was Pinkett, with a lot of help from his friends on the of­fensive line, that made the Panther defense look Pitt-i-ful. 
"They were huge," recalls Pinkett ofthe Pitt defense in awe. "To have a game against a team like that is a real boost to my confidence. 
"But my success would have to go and could only go with the team's success. I could have all the talent in the world, but I'd still be nothing if I didn't have the guys in front of me do the job that they did against Pitt." 
Pinkett may not have all the talent in the world, but you might have had a hard time telling that to scouts 
See PINK, page 10 
One more time 

Kiel proves himself 
The two men, one stooped over and walking with a 
cane, both wearing Roman collars, walked slowly down 
the steep runway from Oregon's Autzen Stadium to the 
parking lot below. 
"Ah, well," said one, who admitted that he'd waited 
50 years for Notre Dame to play in the Pacific 
Northwest, "it sure isn't like the old days. Ifonly we had 
a quarterback." 
The other squinted against the bright October sun­
shine, and nodded in silent agreement. 
Two other men, 2 500 miles and two weeks away, one with a half-empty beer can and the other in a bright green silk jacket, walked uncertainly down the steep road from Pitt Stadium. 
"Yeah," said one, who admitted that he travelled miles to watch the Irish every week, "I knew the kid could do it. He's one hell ofa quarterback." 
The other just smiled and began to sing the fight song. 
Such is the unfortunate lot ofBlair Kiel. Praised to the 
point of embarrassment at times, hounded and 
ridiculed at others. To his credit, Kiel has endured un­
just criticism with dignity, and brushed aside over­
zealous praise with humility. 
Through it all, he has been a leader. In his first game ever, Kielled Notre Dame on the drive that culminated in Harry Oliver's miracle field goal to beat Michigan. 
"Yeah," they said, "but did you see how bad that first pass was? He's lucky the ref called interference on that play." 
Later, Kiel was called on to relieve Mike Courey, when the latter was unable to move the offense. Again, he saved the day. 
"Yeah," they said, "but he can't drop back well." 
By the end of his freshman season, Kiel had started nine games, and the Irish had come within a dropped kickoffofwinning the national championship. 
"Yeah," they said, "but he didn't throw a single touch­down pass." 
So the 1981 season opened. Coach Gerry Faust waited until three days before the season opener to name Kiel the starter. The Irish romped, 27-9, and before the day was out, they were the No. I team in the lan,cl. 


"Yeah," they said, "but Koegel moved the ball bet­
ter." 
And the next week, Tim Koegel was the starter. After consecutive losses to Michigan and Purdue, however, Kiel had his job back -again. 
But it was obvious that Irish coaches had very little confidence in his ability. Time and again, they pulled him from the game after a mistake. 
"It affected me, and I know it hurt Tim, too," he ad­mitted after the season. 
At the start of spring drills this year, his self-esteem reached new lows. He was told that, despite his ex­perience, he would start out dead-even with sopho­more Ken Karcher and walk-onJim O'Hara. 
But there was someone else at practice this spring. Ron Hudson. 
"There was too much pressure on Blair last year," Hudson says. "He made some mistakes, but he was bril­liant at times." 
Kiel called the new coach "the best thing that's hap­pened to me since Icame to Notre Dame." And the two of them went to work. Rather than give up and transfer to another school, Kiel decided he was going to fight for his job. And he won it back -again. l:ntil the Oregon game. 
"We'd have won if Blair would have played the whole game," said one starter. "He wasn't doing that great in the first half, but no one was. Nothing against Ken Kar­cher, because he's going to be a good player. But when things aren't going well for a team, the last thing you want to do is add to your problems with an inex­perienced quarterback. Blair should have heen in there the whole g~me."· 
See KIEL, page 9 




