~-------­
Tape tax -page7
' ' ' ' 

VOL. XVII, NO. 25 the indepemknt -.tmknt Ill"\\ "paper ·"en ing notre dame and -.aint man··-, THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1982 
Luxembourg 
12 killed in Soviet jet crash 
LUXEMBOURG (AP)-A Soviet 30,000, surrounded by Helgium. An llyushin-62 crashed shortly af­airliner carrying 7' people veered West Germany and France. In ter takeoff trom Moscow's off the runway, plunged into a stand Metz, France, the Freyming Mer­Sheremetyevo Airport, and Western of trees and exploded in flames just lebach Burn Center was placed on sources said about 90 people were after landing at Luxembourg airport alert and emergency teams were killed. Soviet authorities did not last night. Police and fire officials called in to treat burn victims. release a casualty figure for the said 12 people were killed and 65 Luxembourg airport officials said crash, which was the sixth known air injured. the Ilyushin was scheduled to con­disaster involving an ll-62 or its sis­
The survivors, some of thm tinue on to Lima, Peru, after the stop ter plane, the ll-62m. 
burned severely, were taken to five in Luxembourg. Officials said IS pas­The worst reported disaster hospitals in the city and to a burn sengers were to get off at Luxem­involving a Soviet airliner was Oct. center in Metz, France, about _>, 7 bourg. 13, 1972, when I76 people perished miles to the south. Crew members, The most recent reported crash of in the crash ofan Ilyushin jet in Mos­apparently got out of the burning an Aeroflot airliner was last July 6. cow. plane on their own. Luxembourg's RTL television said. Some made it to a farmhouse not far from where the plane came to rest, while ~thers 
Farm worker advocate 
fainted as they ran, the report added. Police initially told reporters at the scene that 24 were injured. The 

callsfor student action 
figure was altered after victims, including the pilot, were taken to hospitals. By TIM VERCELLOTTI ing the people and mistreating the 
"We heard an extremely loud News Editor workers," Sandman told a group of engine noise that lasted for a few approximately 40 students. seconds," said a man who lives next An advocate of farmworker rights "There's a lot of work to be done to Findel Airport. called on Notre Dame students to at this university. You must educate 
"Then there was silence," he said. "play a prophetic role" in publiciz­people so that the referendum will followed by a series of explosions ing the plight of migrant workers in not only pass with a majority. but that continued for about 20 minutes. the Midwest. with unanimity," she said. 
Airport officials said the ·aircraft Olgha Sierra Sandman, a board Sandman spoke in place of FLOC landed at 8:23p.m. (4:23p.m. EDT), member of the National President Baldemar Velasquez, who and appeared to have made a proper . Farmworker Ministry, spoke on be­yesterday marked the 24th day of a landing until it suddenly turned to half of the Farm Labor Organizing hunger strike, begun on Labor Day. 
the right and skidded about 1,000 Committee (FLOC) last night in the Velasquez, weak from the strike, was yards. Library Auditorium. persuaded to cancel his appearance. 
It shot over a small pond and Sandman kicked off the Notre Sandman said that Velasquez' plunged into some woods, knocking Dame FLOC support group's cam­strike, scheduled to end this eve-down trees for about 100 yards paign to educate the student body ning, was "an expression of before it came to a halt at the end ofa on the poor living and working con­
See FLOC, page 5 

.small valley, according to airport of­ditions of migrant workers on ficials and television reports. The ex­tomato farms in northeastern Ohio. plosions followed and the plane The campaign is geared toward a 
Peacekeepingoperation
caught fire. re-ferendum, to be held next About 250 members of emer­February, that will decide whether gency medical and rescue teams the ·University will continue a 

U.S. Marines return to Beirut 
were at the scene. The Soviet ambas­boycott ofCampbell's products. The sador and other embassy personnel boycott has been in effect since BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) -About tlak jackets and carried M-16 the mao;sacre of hundreds of men, also were at the airport. February, 1980. HOO U.S. Marines returned to Beirut automatic rifles, mortars and anti­women and children in the Sahra 
Rescue workers brought power­FLOC contends that Campbell's by ship and helicopter Wednesday tank weapons. The rifles were un­and Chatilia refugee camps Sept. 16­ful lights to the scene of the crash requires seasonal laborers to work and took control of the airport from loaded. but the Marines carried 18. and called out for survivors in long hours for low pay and to endure departing Israeli forces in a new ammunition clips and were under Nearly SOO French troops who several languages, including Rus­substandard housing and medical pe-acekeeping operation slated to orders to load and fire in self­formerly served with the U.N. sian. care. last until all foreign armies are out of defense. peacekeeping force in southern 
RTL televison said it was the first "I am calling on you to play a Lebanon. t.ebanese children waved and Lebanon joined the 1,080 French major air disaster in the history of prophetic role. You must spread the The Marines, marching in forma­smiled at the Marines. Many of the soldiers and 1, I 70 Italians who have this tiny grand duchy of about message that Campbell's is exploit-tion. wore camouflage uniforms and leathernecks had their names writ­already been deployed in the Sabra 
ten on their helmets in Arahic, the and Chatilla camps and in central work of Lehanese army soldiers who Heirut. patrolled the port with the Marines Roughly 400 U.S. Marines landed
Communist Party vs. citizens 
when t~e Americans spent 16 days at the seaport from the 6th Fleet in Beirut this summer. ships Manitowoc and Saginaw and "A lot of us are calling this Beirut drove in trucks and jeeps south to Part 11," said Cpl. Mark Kearny ofJef­Beirut international airport at 4 p.m. 
Professorsees different war 
ferson City, Tenn., who said some of ( 10 a.m. EDT). the Arabic lettering on his helmet At the airport, they joined 400By PAM RICHARDSON ing out several points on socialism in He continued hy centering on 
spelled out his nickname Marines who were ferried byNewsSitiff early civilizations such as the contemporary socialism, citing as "Cowhoy." 
Chinook and Sea Stallion helicoptersRomans, Egyptians. and examples the countries of Russia, It was the second time in a month from the helicopter-carrier Guam. 
A noted professor here believes Mesopatamians. He stressed the ' East Germany and other communist 
the Marines landed. The first opera­Some manned a position with there is a war going on in several aims of these early individuals, countries. Niemeyer stressed the tion ended Sept. I 0 after the evacua­Lebanese troops on the main road communist countries; however. not including their practice of social reJationship of communism and tion of PLO guerrillas from the city into the airport, and other Marines 
between different countries, but societies and their social dm:trines socialism in today's world, bringing 
ringed by Israel since June. Syrian cooked dinner over campfires.within them. in theory. out the idea that the Soviet l~nion troops are camped in eastern 
Still others marched in formation Dr. Gerhart Niemeyer said, "The still considers itself in a phase of Lebanon, and President Reagan says to positions near the airport run­state is not the highest authority, the socialism. Communism is still ahead 
the Marines will stay until all Israelis ways. Some unloaded their gearhighest authority is the party." The ti>r the Russian people. Niemeyer and Syrians leave. 
from vehicles parked in front of the state of war. he said, is between the 

commented, "One morning they t:.S. Marine spokesman John Reid airport. They stopped reportersCommunist Party and the citizens. (the Russians) will wake up and more Marines would land
said -!OO from entering certain areas. 
Niemeyer made the comments there communism will be." Thursday along with tanks, armored A U.S. information offlcer, Lt. Col. 
last night during his "Socialism: An Alice Douglas. vice-president of 
vehicles, and wire-guided anti-tank Lee Delmore, said the Marines Overview" lecture. the second of the Thomas :\lore Societv, stated the weapons. Small boats from the U.S. 
would be deployed in a four square­the "Contemporary bsues Lecture main rea;on for asking Niemeyer 10 
tank-landing ship Hermitage recon­mile area around the airport, about Series," sponsored hy the Thomas speak on socialism was because "it is noitered the coast in preparation for one mile north of Israel's new lines. \tore Society. a modern system ofgovernment that the landing. U.S. Ambassador Robert Dillon Niemeyer. a professor emeritus of needs to he examined." 
The Marines, along with Italian greeted the Marines and said, government and international The Thom;Lo; More Society will 
and French peacekeeping troops, "...They'll be here long enough to do studies, is a specialist on \larxism in continue with its series this semes­
were requested by President Amin the job -to assist the governmentthe field of political philosophy. He ter. The remainder of the lectures 
Gemayel in the wake of the Sept. 14 of Lebanon in establishing control lectured hefore an enthusiastic will continue in the attempt to cover assassination of his brother, 
over Beirut and the surrounding group in O'Sbaughnessy Hall, bring-major areas ofprofessional interests. President-elect Bashir Gemayel. and area." 


Dr. Gerhart .Vie meyer 
-


News Brie/§ 
fh The ( Jhsen•e1· and The Associated Press 
The two Notre Datne sophomoresinjured 
in a hit and run accident last Sunday morning on South Bend Avenue remain in the intensive care units of two South Bend hospitab. Elizabeth Mcinerny is listed in serious condition in Memorial Hospi· tal, and Kerin Mannion is also in serious condition in St. joseph's Medical Center. No suspects had been apprehended as of late fast night. Kathleen Garvey, who was struck by another hit and run driver on Sept. 19, is improving and "in good spirits," recouperating in St. joseph's Medical Center. She is scheduled to he released from the hospital in about two weeks, when she will return home to Wis· consin for additional hospital care. The suspect is this case was caught and faces charges of driving while intoxicated, leaving the scene ofan accident, and running a red light. -The Ohsen•er 
The 800 U.S. Marineswho landed in Beirut on Wed· 
nesday likely will be joined by another -100 leathernecks with tanb 
and artillery. possibly a~ early as Thur~ay, according to Pentagon 
ollicials. President Reagan said the American~ may stay in Lebanon 
even after Israeli and Syrian troops leave. The Pentagon otllciab said 
preparations were being made. for additional fi1rces and equipmnll 
to be ~ent ashore. hut they ~tressed that the final decision had to be 
mat!e hY the ,\larines' commander. Col James !\1. Mead. Thev said. 
)lowev~r. tllat the expanded dutit:~ of the \Iarine;, made the addi 
tiona! deployment likdY Reagan notified Congress on yestenla\ 
that the first comingem of Marines had returiled to Beirut. Ilb ti1r 
mal notification. required under the War f'owt:r~ Act, ~aid the troop~ 
··will not engage in combat," hut may "ext:rci~t: the right of ;,elf­
defcn~t: and will ht: equippnl accordinglv." The pn:;,ident told 
Congres;, that the .\Iarine~ would he in Lebanon "only for a limited 
period of time." But he later told reporter;, on a political trip that he 
expects the Syrians and Israelis to leave "sooner than Lebanon wtll 
he ready for us to" remove the Marines. -.·IP 
Federal authorities in Indianapolis are investigating a time bomb that was fi1und ticking in the trunk ofa car juM a few yards from where school children were waiting for their bus. The children would have faced "serious injury" had the bomb explodn\. inves· tigators said Tuesday aftt·r finding the bomb in the car of a rape victim's husband. They said the explosive was disabled by a ,\!arion County sheriffs explosives technician two minute~ hdore it was set to explode. Police said the car's owner had just closed the trunk when he noticed a wire protruding under the bumper. lie checked underneath and found an alarm clock wired to ti1ur batteries. Anoth· er wire led to the gasoline tank spout where it was connected with a model rocket engine, which acts as a tlare. Authorities said the small engine, ifignited, would have caused gasoline fumes to explode. The owner called police who herded the youngsters away from the bus stop. Sgt. John R. Brooks, a explosives expert who dismantled the device, said it apparently was set to detonate while the intended victim drove to work. "Had it gone off, it would have blown the rear of the car off and possibly caused secondary explosions from surrounding cars," he added. No motive is known, officials said. They acknowledged the man and his wife had received threatening notes. The 24-year·old wife was raped in July 19HO, and ofilcials said a y,. year-old man convicted of the crime was sentenced last Friday to 40 years in prison. They declined to speculate if the conviction had anything to do with the planting of the bomb. -AP 
Two-year-old Katie Proctorspent five months fighting pneumonia -much of the time vr a respirato~, ht:r bod.);, chilled to nearly 10 degrees below normal' and her muscles paralyzed by drugs. No one can say why she survived. Now, she's healthy and home in Milton, Mass., and Dr. Robert Pascuc.ci said yesterday that someday "she'll run and keep up with every kid in the class." "Most of the kids who get as sick as she did, die. I'm not quite sure why she didn't, frankly. I think it's sort ofa miracle she survived all this," said Pascucci, who helped care for Katie at Children's 
Hospital in Boston. During her hospitalization, Katie was cared for 
by 60 nurses, 30 interns and residents and five doc.tors besides her 
family doctor. "If she had been an adult, she certainly would have 
died," Pascucci said. Her parents stopped working for months soone 
could always be with her. Even when she seemed not to hear, they 
read to her. Katie went home to Milton onjune 29, and doctors hope 
her lungs will heal by themselves. 
Senate Democrats failed yesterday in a hid to in· crease jobless benefits for recession victims as Congress rushed to complete legislation needed to keep the federal government run­ning after midnight tonight. The first of two Democratic anti· recession proposals, a plan to liberalize unemployment benefits in more than two dozen states, was rejected 51·47. Oftlcials said it would have cost between S478 million and f3 billion and helped 600,000 unemployed workers or more, dep~nding on the fevd of joblessness over the next 12 months. Defeate at that turn Democrats readied a second plan calling for a temporary program ot· 200,000 public service jobs at an estimated cost ofabout s1 billion. That proposal already has passed the Democratic-controlled House, but .is scorned by Republi<:ans as a new version of large public 
servace programs they say fatled in the past. -AP 
The birthplace of slain civil rights lea~er Malc~lrn X will be a city historical landmark, the Omaha City Concll has decided. Rowena Moore, whose family owns the currently· vacant property, has said the Malcolm X Memorial Foundation that s~e heads plans to raise money to build a monument on the lot. The City Council on Tuesday approved the site as a landmark. ~alcolm X was born Malcolm Uttle on May 19, 1925. The home of has parents, the Rev. and Mrs. Early Little, stood on the Moore property. -AP 
Sunny today and warm. Highs around 80. Fair ton~ght and continued mild Lows in mid50s. On Fridar. partly sunny. Htghs in upper 70s. -AP 
..;,.~.. ; :, . 
Thursday, September 30, 1982 -page 2 
Enjoy the banquet oflife 
-----~---------~---------­
When the mind is tired and the body lilligued, com· 
mon ailments among most college students, thoughts 
often willingly wander from history, accounting, or 
engineering to more philosophical endeavors. 
Thoughts of the te~t you were studying h1r drift slowly 
from your mind as you slip effortlessly and willingly in· 
to that wonderful Nirvana that knows no hooks and 
welcomes no professors. 
Such was my condition a couple of nights ago. Afier stumbling through fintr consecuti\'e days with vny little sleep and. very many things on my mind. I felt prepared to tackle the questions COIH..Trning the origins of the universe and other unanswerable mystt·ries. 
It is during such monwnts of introspect ion when \\T often attempt to .solve what is pcrhap;, the greatest mys· tery ofall: ""hy an: wt· all hne' 
I certaitJiy don't pretend to know the atl'.wer. If am·· thing, I just come up with more question~.· fiut we should all he cont't'rned about thi' quc~tion bt-c.tu,t· it is one with partkul;tr significance for collcgt· ;,t lllknts Amidst the tremendous pre;,sures of mn·t ing deadlim·,, cramming ti>r It'.''·' .111d trv·ing to force a 'ot·ial life into two short days c.tch week. 1\e can \'tT\·easily make the 
mi,take of getting too caught up in immnliatt·. ep· re;,pected and nohll: intentions fi1r engaging in such pra!-:tices. By working extremely hard in college and rt·ceiving an impressive (d'A, they hope to secure a promi.,ing and wcll·pay·ing job after ~raduation. After thn secure the good jobs, Tllen they can ;,tart enjo1 ing lik. 

But there is something wrong wnh this attitude. \\'e all mu't ~tudy and work h;trd in college if we are to be ~unT~sful in finding a good job. but there is ju~t ~o mud1 more to lit<: than that. even in college. 
The <Ill-work-and-no-play disea'ie is one that ha~ ,,ften afflicted me. It b \TrY difiit'ult not to get caught up in all the work and the pre"ure, hc:cau,t·tney arc major aspects of college life It's almost likt· a Catdl-22 ~ituation. flow can wt· real !I enjov lik when 

hnneral \Tntures v. hill.: we halT such 1-(rcat 
neglecting more permant'lll pressure~ and problems to 
and relevant a;,pel'ls of our deal with on a daih· basis' 
livt•s. What you must realize is 
\X'hy ({re we here ;It :\otre that the pressure~ ami Dame or Saint :\lary'<! ,\Lnl\ tlt·adlitH·s arc not going to of us would probably reply end when 1·ou receive vour that we attend collcgt· in or· degree. If annhing thn· will der to furtlwr our he more intense in the busi· knowledge in certain areas ness world. Ifvou don't have so we can compt'le in tlu: time to enjoy lite now, you tight job market upon certainlY won't he able to 
graduation. This is obviously enjoy it out in the real world a major reason. If you're either. going to dish out over Despite the constant 
S:W.OOO during a lintr year pressurt·s. it is still possible period, then you had better to rt·ally enjoy life and he get a damn good education happy about what you are and have a promising job doing. \X'e owe it to our· waiting f()f you when you · selves. to our well-being. linallv venture inIll the "real There are no contracts 

world." But there are other a~pects of our lives which 
should play an integral part not only during our college 
years hut fi1r the remainder ofour days on earth. 
Not a day goes by when I don't encounter friends or 
acquaintances who are incessantly driving themelves to 
attain certain objectives or struggling just to get 
through to another day. When an objective is reached, 
or that dreaded day tinally passes, they tint! something 
new to worry about, another obstacle to overcome. 
There is absolutely nothing wrong with having goals 
and objectives. We all have them. If we didn't then we 
would all be wasting our time here. 
A problem arises, though, when we allow these goals and worries to take over our lives, to control our every action. Ifyou spend your college days getting grey hairs fretting over the next Emil quiz, or becoming S() obssessed with a high grade point average as to turn neurotic, then you're missing out on a great deal. Every day I hear ofstudents who cloister themselves in the far reaches of Memorial Library, studying until their brains fry from overload. These student.s possess the most guaranteeing us 75.5 years of life. Your time could come tomorrow or I00 years from now. But whenever it is, you should he prepared to go. 
The great Roman satirist Horace had the right idea: ... )'OU mrel)'find someone who admits to having been h~lfJ/J)' With the time allotted bim, u•ho admits tbat he has lit•ed well 
And lit•ed right and is rea{~)' to lecwe, like one who gets up from a banquet... 
Start enjoying lite now. Don't plan out your happiness for after graduation. There's a world of beauty all around us just waiting to he discovered and enjoyed. Live for today so when that time comes to excuse your· self from the banquet table, you'll do so without com· plaining that you didn't have time f(Jr dessert. 
Observer note____,__, 
The OIJserver is always looking for new people to work in layout, news, sports, etc. No experience necessary. Call 239·530:~ for more info. Come join the staffi 
The,Observer 
/Jesign Editor.............. .... lleirdre "urph\ /Jt•Si!(ll Assistant ................. Ken Ct:rahona l.urou/ Stuff. ........ ReAAie ( A~ain') (J'fu:setters... ...................Jim .\tacCicnnan Toni".-\ lt:Ms?!" 
.\'~u·s liditor.. .....................\lark Wo"ch~h Copy f.'clilor.. ....................)elf llarrin!lton H&1'Layout... ..... ........ ... Sleepl~" Szilva.' liditoriuts l.uyout. .. ..... Tim :>leek) .\j}()rts Copy Editors... . ... Will II are Chri> :\l~~dks 1)•pisl........ ..... Kart.:n .\liranda Ad IJesi~n ....\larilyn R l.arldn-I.O()goott:t: Photographer. ....\ldinda Hopkin' .\D 1Ja1· f.'clilor.. .. ............... llav~ ( ;r.olc 
.1:11c /Jar liclilor ................ Tari Brown (lues/ Appeartlnce,,· .. ........ Sony \\'alkman John Higgins. a hiling Syslcm. a kindly doctor. and a cold ke pak 
Oh. the :\lightmare. she rides a darkent·d tietd. 
And she kt:t:ps you ranglc:d in ht:r manl'. ~'tw will not kt you ~o a~ain. Sht: will nor lt:t you ~o ... 
The Observer <USPS 598 9201 " Publ<shed Monday through Fnddy dn<l un home h>otba\1 SclluH1ay.., E.'Xt epl dunng exarn tlnd vncatrun pertl IdS The Observer 1s publiShed ov lhe sludP.nh of Notre Da·ne <ir>d Sd~<'l Mdry s C~>l lege Subsu<ploons 'T1<i v Dl' t.Jurc hdSP•1 tor S25 per yed! <515 Pl'' >P'T1PSierJ by >'lntmg The Observer P 0 Bc•x 0 Notre Ddme tndldnd 465:'16 
The Observer 1s a ·ne·T1b(•r ,•t The Associated Press Ail rep1 u1UL 11, ·II nghts are reservf'd 
Secul")d Lld.SS p~1StdQt} Pdl,j dl 1\\,·Trt• Da•T1e lnd<dnd 46556 

"Papa & Mama Do The Cooking" Francesco's Famiglia Restaurant fpaturing FOUR SEASONS PIZZA The Original Southern Recipe Lasagna, Home-made Spaghetti, All Varieties of Sandwiches Chicken Cacciatori, Veal Parmigiana tFrdncesco was chef at Notre 0dm<' for 21 <;r> I i636 N. Ironwood277-6155 277-6156"WE DELIVER"  

World -Reknowned Speaker Designer 
On September 30, Irving M. Fned, the world­reknowned speaker designer, will appear at Audio Specialists, 401 N. Michigan, South Bend, IN to present two extraordinary new speaker designs. Come and hear the G/2, the first perfected three-way loud speaker, complete with series crossover network. We promise that you will find every other three-way speaker disjointed and dull after hearing the G/2. Audio Specialists is also proud to present the area premiere of the Beta, the Fried sound in a mini­monitor size at less than $250 a pair. Remember, that's Audio Specialists, 401 N. Michigan, South Bend, IN on September 30 at 3 :OQ and 7:00. 
-~ .
. . 
------------------------------------------------·------­
The Observer Thursday, September 30, 1982 -page 3 
Afterschool daycare considered by ECDC 
By KIMBERLY MALOOF 
.Veu•s Staff 
The addition of an aftcr~chool daycare program t<>r the children of the :'IJD/S:\IC community is heing considered by the Early Childhood Development Center ( ECDC ). a nursery school and kindergarten located in Havican flail. Saint :\la~··s. 
Teri Kosik. the director of ECDC. said the aduitioual service is needed 10 serve the prima~ age childr<:n of Notre Dame aud Saint :'\lary's. 
"The afterschnol program would he a comnnmit' 't·rvice. It h an answer to the IH't tb of working and studying parenl~who desire good af­ternoon acti\ Hie, t(>r their children." 
The after-school program would he available for children in grade~ I to ~ from approximately ~ to ';: 1 '; pm daily. The program would offer a nutritious sn;tck. relaxation time. arts and crafts. group games outside play time and assistance with homework hy qualilled teachers. 
ECDC offers hoth li.JII and part­time programs for the children of faculty, administration, staff~ stu dents and alumni from Saint ,\1ary's or Notre Dame. 
The ECDC program is geareu toward total childhood develop­
ment. Thb includes social. phvsical. emotional and cognitive ·devdop­ment. 
Saint ,\lary's students majoring in psychology or education receive credits f(>r assisting teachers in clas­srooms. 
ECDC is looking for volunteers to work one hour and llfteen minutes a week under the direction of highly experienceu teachers. 
Rose frazier and Karen Ho~inski .tre two such volunteers at ECDC. frazier, a social work major is a te.tc­her's aide and hdps <..luring lunch hour. This b her fourth year working at ECDC. Says Frazier."l like the Drt·ikur's non-authoritarian <..lis­cipline metho<..l. It's a logical way of teaching kids an inner <..liscipline. The teachers are caring an<..! the ki<..ls are fun." 
The Dreikur methou emphasizes positive aspects in children's Jevelopment. 
llosinski. a junior e<..lucation major, has heen working at ECDC since her sophomore year. She worked during the summer at ECDC as a <..lay camp counselor. 
Hosinski said she hdieves the children's dynamic personalities have resulte<..l from their educated backgrounds an<..! the special atmos­phere at ECDC. 

'§(IIIK~t'WI(h:ti~~~~)&<,_·~ 
oo•Q · 1!; 

Ladies;tNight 1 
I I 
1 1 Artin~s 1Jris4 Jlub I
I I
1Eueryboltullmtlrome 
1 Tonight after 9pm ' 
~ • 2 for 1 Mixed Drinks * I ~ • 75' Domestic Beer (cans) • 
II "*ArHo's ~ 
~ ~ Cleveland Rd. ND 
J 




L~---­
CONTRIBUTING S2.00 or MORE DIVIDED BY TOTAL NO. OF STUDENTS . 
CARROLL 

i 
Df 0 -"10 20304050607DB090100Dio 0 10203040506070BDSD~ 


• 

Thursday is Tankard Night in the Terrace Lounge at the South Bend Marriott! South Bend's largest 
34 oz. tankard of beer i~ only 
$4.00 
and YOU KEEP THE SOUVENIR 
GLASS TANKARD! · Refills every weekday from 4 -7 p.m. (on Thursdays until closing) are just $2.00! 
......._--------, ..JI 
]'!.I 

~ The Place to Be! ~~~3 !\1. St. Joseph St., South Bend (219) 234-2000 
N.D. Participation Chart 00001981 
••••1982 

The Observer Thursday, September 30, 1982 page 4 

RICHMOND, Va. (AP) -Presi­"another economic binge like the dent Reagan blamed Democrats for one that left us with today's pound­the nation's economic woes yester­ing national hangover." day and said the Nov. 2 elections 
"This devastating recessionary pose a choice between recovery and 
virus -one that many economists believe started and has continued since 1979 -has begun to show

... 

signs of finally running its course," Reagan said. 
In a speech at a rally for Republican candidates, the presi­dent tried to absolve his administra­tion of responsibility for the recession and the highest un­employment in more than 40 years.
RESTAURANT 

Reagan said that in the four years ofthe Carter administration "we suf­fered our most dramatic economic reversal since the Depression," with inflation climbing from 4.8 percent 
to 18 percent and interest and mortgage rates shooting to their hig­hest level in over a century. 
He said the quarter-century of 


15 REASONS: 
Broiled Seafood Platter 
Democratic control of Congress, which ended in 1981 when Republicans took power in the

Charbroiled Halibut Steak 
Senate, was a "spendthrift era of busted budgets and fatter and fatter I 
government. For every new tax •I there were always plenty of new ways to spend it. 
Charbroiled Salmon 
Shrimp De Johnge 
"Today -right now -all America is paying the tragic pnalty for those excesses," Reagan
Charbroiled Swordfish 
declared. 
"Nearly 11 million people are out of work, and I share their suffering
Walleye Pike 
and frustration. Every American should be shocked at the economic chaos which created today's need­
Red Snapper 
less results." 
Reagan flew here by helicopter

Trout Ala Mer 
primarily to help the campaign of PaulS. Trible, a three-term congress­man trying to move up to the Senate

Stuffed Flounder 
seat being vacated hy Sen. Harry Byrd, an independent whose family has been a dominant force in Vir­

New England· Scrod 
ginia politics for decades. Trible is locked in a close race with Lt. Gov. Richard J. Davis.

Rock Lobster 
Republican strategisb in Washing­
ton had counted on picking up the 
Virginia seat, hut Davis has kept Trible on the defensive during much of the campaign. 

Pan Fried Rainbow Trout 
Gulf Coast Shrimp 
Astatewide poll published Sunday by the Richmond Times Di~patch showed Trible preferred by _.q per­

Stuffed Shrimp 
cent compared with :\0 percent f(Jr 
Davis and :\S percent undecided. 
Although Reagan carried \ irginia with S."> percent of the vote, the newspaper survey showed his popularity is slipping. It said "!9 per­cent approved of Reagan's perliH­mance now, compared with 62 

Pan Fried Frog Legs 
5:30 Nightly 
percent a year ago. 

All Day Sunday 
Trible, who opposed the presi­dent on the tax increase approved

100 Center Complex 
by Congress, told the rally audience


700 L.W.W., Mishawaka 
that he and Reagan "have not agreed


259-9925 
on every issue, but I have always 
supported his presidency... 
.. 

. . 

Train derailment 



Crews battle chemical blaze 
LIVINGSTON, La. (AI') -Crew~ burn it~elf out. which would take spread as tar as Walker, La.. about I 0 in protective suits and air masks dis­about t1ve days, Gov. Dave Treen miles to the west, where about -s covered toxic ground and stream said. evacuees were being cared tiJr by contamination a half-mile away Crews working in the area t(JUnd the Red Cross. from blazing derailed chemical tank heavy contamination, but said un­No injuries have been reported, cars Wednesday. Fire fighters, derground drinking water supplie~.. but evacuation extended on Wed­meanwhile, were forced to abandon were not contaminated, said Lt. nesday to Satsuma, a small com­efforts to put the tire out. Ronnie Jones, state police spokes­munity about five mih:s wcM and 
More people were evacuated man. windward of the blaze. The earliest from this near-deserted town and a "We're looking at a great deal of any evacuees could expect to return black haze darkened the sky as far as ground contamination," Jones said. home was early Thursday, Jones 10 miles away. In one area, a dam was constructed said. Some whose homes were 
As many as 3,300 people have to prevent a drainage ditch from nearest to the accident would be been forced from their homes since running into a creek. kept out for at least four or t1ve days. 43 cars ofa 101 -car Illinois Central Monitors at the edge of the But Jones said no more evacua­Gulf freight train derailed early evacuated area detected quantiti<;s tions were anticipated and Tuesday and rocked the an a as ofdangerous hydrogen chloride and described the situation as less criti­tankloads of oil and chemicals burst other chemical gases, said Gus Von cal that Tuesday. into balls of flame, state police said. Bodungen of the state's air quality "We're still sitting on a powder 
Attempts to douse the cars were division. keg, hut we're close to snuffing out stopped when officials discovered a There were fears that fumes might the fuse," he said. tank car filled with sodium metals in the middle of the burning, smoky wreckage. Water and sodium combined create a violent, fiery ex­
Reagan puts economic 
plosion. Firefighters plan to let the blaze 

blame on Democrats 
~--·~--------~ ---~---~------~-­
-------------------------·-----------·
--~--­

·rhe Observer Thursday, September 30, 1982 page 5 
... FLOC 
paniullarly in light of the "lives of people who have suftercd in thc tfcld~ SO that WC Gill elljO)' ilhllndalll t(JOd... 
Rderring to the inhmnational campaign aimed at next February's rderendum. Sandman said "This is a time t(Jr commitment, commitment to the cause of thc poor, who arc struggling ti1r change... 
Father Pat Sullivan. assistant rec­tor at Holy Cross Hall. introduced Sandman. Hc noted that the small turnout for thc talk was unimpor­tant. 
"We arc interested not in the quantity of people. hut the quality. ti1r it is you who pro\'idc the spark," Sullivan said. 

continuedfrom page I 
sacritke" t(Jr the migranl worken. 
~tanding in from ofa red and hlack FLOC banner reading "llaMa Ia vic­toria", or "l'ntil the victory". 
Sandman outlined the living and working conditions of the migrant laborers. 
The workers have an average life expectancy of -f9 years, ~he said. One of the cause~ of illness and death amohg the laborers is the 
"irresponsible  u~e  of  pesticides"  
Sandman explained.  
The  pesticides  often  cause  

damage to the nervous system. "Many get sick and die without knowing what has happened to them," she said. 
In addition. the buildings used to house workers during the summer harvest are often used to house pigs during the wimer, Sandman said. 
She also pointed out that children must hegin work in the fields at the age of five "sO that the families can survive." 
FLOC argue~ that hecau~e Campbell's negotiate~ .:ontracts on­ly with the htrmowner~. thc needs of the workers arc ti1rgottcn in the process. The organization wishes to participatc in the negotiations. 
"Thcv (the farmworkers) walll to havc the dignity and respcct of sit­ling down with Campbell'~ and the growers," Sandman said. 
Whilc Campbell's has refused to particpate in such ncgotiations, company and H.OC reprcscntatives arl' curremlv holding exploratory talk~ under the auspice., of the :\rchdioccsc of Boston Just icc and Pcacc Ccntcr. 
Ernesto Reza. a FLOC member prcscnt at last night's talk.· said the meetings arc "a good indicator, hut an: far from bdng negotiations." 
Sandman said that in thc meantime. the workers are continu­ing a strike. begun in 19~H. to prote~t their plight. in addition to the Campbell's boycott campaign. 
Sandman. who was horn in \lexico, began her talk in Spanish to demonstrate to the audience "what it feels like to he left out." 
She explained that studellls should not forget that frustration, 
NewiDcards ready now at Registrar· 
All students who had photos taken t(Jr Notre Dame I.IJ.s at Registration can pick up their permanent cards at the Oftke of the Regi~trar. Room 21 S of the Administration Building. between H:50 a.m. and -t:.~O p.m. 
SMCholds free nuclear freeze debate 
The ~aint .\lan·'s College philosophy dcpartment will ~ponsor a dcbatc entitlnl "Should \X'e Sup­port/Demand a Bilateral ~uclear Freeze'" at -p.m...\londa~. in Car­roll II all. admis~ion i~ free. 
Dr. Tony Black. associate profes­sor of historv at ~aint .\lan ·,, will speak against a nuclear freeze. while Dr. Craig llartzcr. assi~talll professor of government at the College. will ddend a nuclcar frccze. 
Lee's 

8-BQ& Ribs Special Friday and Saturday 
10pm -lam 
Get one S2 pitcher with every dinner purchased. 
1123 So. Bend Ave. No phone otdets 
SEE THE IRISH IN MICHIGAN, GO HERTZ FROM $16.99 A DAY 
These Economy Fares are Touring Rates, subject to change without notice and non-discountable. There are no minimum day and advance resenation requi~"!!!ents, but 
restrictions on wher. and where cars must be returned. Gas is not 
included. Call Hertz 
for details. 

Business & TechnologyThursday,september3o,1982-page 6 
EconomicUpdate 
Rockwell International Corporation's Heavy 
Vehicles Components Operations announced Wedneday that a majority of United Auto Workers union members ratified a new 34­month contract with the firm. Company spokesman Tony Petrucci refused to reveal details except to say the pact "is a step towards facing up to economic realities." UAW officials were not immediate­ly available for comment. The new contract, covering about 5,200 workers in 10 plants, will run toJuly 19, 1985, the statement said. ­
AP 

The ChairmanofGeneral Motors Corporation, Roger B. Smith, asked the government yesterday to take the lead in solving_ a problem that he said gives Japanese auto makers a big advantage m the United States market-undervaluation of the japanese yen. Mr. Smith told a House Ways and Means trade subcommittee hearing on auto import quota legislation that he opposed p~tting a ce~li~g on japanese imports and that a better way to achteve the btll s ob­jectives would be to do something about the currency exchange 
rate.-AP 

allStreetUpdate 
Stock prices suffered a sharp setback today amid revived concerns about the economic outlook. Analysts said investors ap­parently were having some second thoughts about their hopes for the beginnings ofa recovery from the recession within the next few months. Brokers noted that interest rates, afrer falling on Tuesday, turned upward in the credit markets today. The DowJones average of 30 industrials fell 13.06 to 906.27, for its 1argest loss since it dropped 16.27 points on Aug. 24. Advances outpaced declines by nearly 3 to 1 on the New York Stock Exchange. Big Board volume totaled 62.55 million shares, against 65.90 million in the previous session. -AP 

• 
: -.!.!.A The Juggler :
. .
~ 

: Now Accepting : 
: undergraduate works of : • Poetry •
• •:
: Fiction • Prose • • Criticism •
•e Photography ••
• •e
• Graphics 
e for consideration for publication
• •e 
:  All works should be submitted to the  :  
:  Juggler mailbox  309 0 'Shag  :  
:  Deadline: October 1  :  

••••••••••••••••••••••4 
Rapid market growth 
Miller's key is marketing 
ByTOMMOWLE 
News Staff 

Effective marketing strategy plan­ning and execution were cited as the keys to the success of the Miller Brewing Company in a presentation by the nation's second-largest brewery last night. 
Over 250 students packing the 
Notre Dame Marketing Club­
sponsored seminar heard Miller rep­
resentative Julie Cram describe the 
company's incredible 700 per cent 
production increase over 12 years. 
Miller was purchased by the 
Philip Morris Company in 1970, 
then recognized mostly as a leader 
of the cigarette industry. Miller was 
a medium-sized brewery with a 
meager 4.3 percent market share. 
The fundamental problem with Miller's strategy, Cram explained, was that their brand was targeted toward the occasional beer drinker who consumed less than 30 per cent ofthe beer in this country. While the 
"Champagne of Bottled Beers", had earned a reputation for high quality, it was ignored by heavy drinkers. Af­ter the aquisition, Philip Morris drew upon their marketing ex­pertise in tobacco products to reposition Miller. 
The fundamental tool in Miller's 
rebirth was market research, Cra~ emphasized. Their first step was to target Miller High Life to the proper segment. They found that 80/ of the beer is drunk by 30/ of the con­sumers in the 18-34 age group. They also found that two-thirds of the beer drunk is in the late afternoon or early evening to relax. From this in­formation came the slogan "Miller Time". 
At first Miller went all out in the repositioning, Cram continued. However, this was too radical a departure from their previous image to be believable. So Miller adopted a more gradual, moderate approach, identifying Miller High Life with relaxation. When this image was es­tablished, they keyed on the work ethic: "after working hard and doing a good job, you deserve a reward," she said. This idea also tied in the brand's quality image. 
Their success in the light beer market is based on different prin­ciples. Lite beer was the first suc­cessful light beer. Others had been tried, but they failed because ofpoor taste and because they were marketed as "diet beers". Miller's research showed that there was a market for a good light beer, however. So Miller tested the product they developed and con­cluded that it would sell. Their ap­proach in advertising Lite has been simple and direct, with humor and the use ofcelebrities to sell it. 
Miller's other beer is Magnum Malt Liquor, which wa:. introduced last year. An earlier malt liquor had been phased out to make room for Lite. They are also testing another super-premium beer, Special Reserve, which would be in compet· tiion with Michelob. 
Much ofMiller's success can be at­tributed to the use of television, especially during sports programs, when more ofthe heavy drinkers are watching. However, there are other aspects which have been important. First, Miller has been active in promoting events of all kinds across the country, from the Olympics to hospital benefits. They have also been helped by their easily­recognized clear bottle. Above all, Miller has tried to keep its reputa­tion for quality. 
Miller's marketing strategy has been a unification of many factors. They have targeted their beer at various segments of society, and have captured top postions in each of these areas by appealing to those people. It must be noted that only a small part of their growth can be at­tributed to overall expansion of the industry: Miller's growth has been much greater. lt is the effective use of their long-range strategy that has led to success. 
Faculty Forum 
Soviet consumer examined 
ByJOE INCARDONA 
News Staff 

The nature of marketing in the Soviet Union was the subject of a slide presentation given by Profes­sor John Gaski yesterday afternoon. Gaski's presentation, entitled "The Deprived Soviet Consumer: A Market-Orientated Tour of Moscow 
and Leningrad," was delivered to a group of faculty as part of the Col­lege of Business Administration's Faculty Forum. 
Gaski's observations were col­lected during an 8-day tour of Mos­cow and Leningrad with fellow members ofthe American Marketing Association. The purpose of the group's visit this past May was to meet with officials of both Soviet and American agencies concerned with trade. The group also toured 
Soviet  stores  and  factories  ex­ 
tensively.  
Gaski  emphasized  the  problems  

which the Russian consumer must 
face through his slides which il­lustrated scenes from Soviet stores, markets and production centers. Several slides, showing long lines of Russian women in stores, demonstrated the scarcity of staple goods which plague the Russian 
economy. 
"The physical distribution of goods is an enormous problem in the Soviet Union," said Gaski. "They have poor roads and railroads, poor rolling stock, and inadequate storage facilities, which means a fair­ly large percentage of their perishable output spoils before it ever gets to market." Another problem which Gaski pointed our is the inferior quality of consumer goods in the Soviet Union. "The low quality is testified to adequately by the difficulty they have selling any­thing to world markets," he said. According to Gaski. many Russians purchase high-quality articles other than staples from the bla<:k market, which represents about I0/· of the total Russian economy. As for 
Soviet marketing technique, Gaski noted that it is virtually nonexistent. "l saw no advertising of products in newspapers or magazines," Gaski said. "There's plenty of billboard advertising in the Soviet Union, but it's mostly political in nature." He cited the "inability of centrally planned decisions to match the as­sortment ofconsumer products that people want" as the Soviet govern­ment's biggest failure in the area of 
marketing. 
One of Gaski's most interesting observations concerned his con­versation with an English-speaking Russian outside the Winter Palace in Leningrad. Upon being asked what he liked and disliked about living in the Soviet Union, the Russian answered. "It's much easier to tell you what I don't like." The young man, clothed in Western garb, said that his biggest objection to life in the Soviet Union was that "many people don't say what they think, but what they believe they are supposed to think." 

-~-----~---------------------~----~---~~-~-... 
Thursday, September 30, 1982 -page 7
Editorials 
Acquiring and perceiving faith 
What is it about a genuinely happy person that makes him or her happy? What is it about this person that we sense as being strong, deep, and powerful, yet kind and gentle? What makes the Pope a pope, or Father Hesburgh 
-David M. Schorp 
Chautauqua in Faith 
the president of Notre Dame, or Dr. Roger Schmitz the much loved and respected Dean of Engineering? It is the strength of this in· 
dividual's committment to others. 
The beginning ofan individual's faith lies in his realization that his happiness will come from serving others. This is the biggest step in life a man can make. The rest is easy · he simp­ly spends the rest ofhis life figuring out how to better serve his fellow man. 
To make this column's most important point perfectly clear it can he repeated in religious words. "No man's heart rests until it rests in God." Once we realize this for our· selves. we spend the rest of our lives improv­ing our imitation of Christ. "Jesus meek and humble of heart, make my heart like unto thine." No one wants to turn away from more 

NBC's news headaches 
It is scramble time at NBC. Dan Rather has established himself -t1nally -as a worthy successor to Walter Cronkite. But NBC ex­ecutives still see the possibility of gaining a beachhead in the Neilson battle. 
Skip Desjardin 
On the Media 
So, from early morning to early morning, the network is replacing, revamping, and revising the news. Personnel have been changed, graphics have been jazzed up or toned down, and formats have been altered. It has become almost a frantic case of "keeping up with theJoneses." 
Consider these developments: 
Ifyou have turned on the nightly news late­ly, the prestige show, the dinner-hour money­maker, you may, like millions of others, have been startled to see Tom Brokaw and Roger Mudd suddenly staring at you. 
There they are, straight out of a commer­cial, or a jingle. No warning, no fancy com­puter opening, just the news. 
Apparently, "disco news," as the critics came to call it, is dead. Or at least in a coma. It was just a few months ago that both NBC and CBS unveiled new, flashy graphic openings. Both networks featured a spinning globe ­the kind that's supposed to impress upon you the never-ending reach of network news. Deep, authoritative voices announced that it was, indeed, time to watch the news. 
But no more. 
Brokaw now appears suddenly, shockingly, and introduces himself. Mudd, in equally tight close-up, does the same. Then Roger dives right into the news. The higher-ups have ap­parently decided that the cartoon opening 
just didn't seem in keeping with a serious, 
trustworthy news show. 
Gone, too, are the nifty moving boxes that 
used to slide around the screen just before a 
commercial, letting you know what was com­
ing up. Now, a simple -by comparison ­
cube revolves to reveal the upcoming stories. 
In the morning, meanwhile, Chris Wallace 
has been demoted to the White House heat, 
and John Palmer is in as the sole anchor of the 
news on "Today."Jane Pauley is being pushed 
further and further into the background by 
Bryant Gumbel. Since he came on hoard, the 
ratings for "Today" have risen substantiallY, 
and NBC is pin~ing its hopes of catchi...;g 
"Good Morning America" on Gumbel's lapel 
like a Willard Scott daisy. 
Late at night -or even earlier in the morn­ing, depending how you look at it -NBC is offerring Lloyd Dobbins and Linda Ellerbe. "NBC News Overnight" has a great deal of potential. Dobbins and Ellerbe are two of the best writers in TV news today. Unfortunately, the show has become a compost heap of reports not quite good enough to make 
"Nightly News." For instance, one night recently, when there was had economic news, the show aired a report from a Milwaukee sta­tion, with the local anchorman's introduction and all. 
These are just some ofthe changes. It is too soon to tell whether they will be successful. One thing is certain, however. NBC needs to gain ground -fast. 
The ca~e of Charlotte, N.C. is perhaps symptomatic. Unable to gain more than two percent of the audience at news time ­compared to the 20 percent gained by the CBS and ABC affiliates there, executives of the local affiliate decided to drop "Nightly News" and replace it with "Family Feud." The local news has been replaced by "Real People." 
And no one has complained yet. 

P.O. Box Q Siberian prayer  
Dear Editor: Before I face this severe day, I want to praise you, The world is concerned with nuclear dan­to express my gratitude to you, ger, inflation, unemployment, and military and promise to love you and to respect confrontations. Frequently, our press and my fellow prisoners. television report ofthe civil rights violations (;rant me wisdom and strength in Poland and in South America. The Soviet to overcome all hatred and persecution labor camps, on the other hand, have not which I experience here. been mentioned for years and years. There I thank you for all sulkrings: are still I . .., million Russian and minority for injustice. the hard labor. political prisoners, undergoing both mental constant hunger, and other trials. and physical sufferings. Recently, half a mil­Dear c;od. I humbly beg you. lion North Vietnamese were added to the give me some peace. above number. Some Siberian underground If, however. you need a sacritke, material has reached the West secretly. Here then choose me. is a prayer, composed by four deported Lit­Just give me a martyr's courage huanian teenage girb: and perseverence. Amen. Oh God. my holy Trinity, Prof Aleksis Ruhu/is it already dawns. /Jept. of:Wodem Languages  

happiness, once he's found its source. 
A person's background will have much to do with the forming of his conviction that his happiness will come through service to others. How difficult would it he for someone horn and raised in inner city slums, amidst poverty and crime, to become aware of the merit of loving? If I only know distrust, suspicion, and violence, isn't this the only way that I can respond, even to love? 
What happens to a parentkss young man or woman who is forced at an early age to he in­dependent, and assume a grownup's respon­sibilities, without having faith's guidance? "Nobody ever helped me, I had to do it on my 
own. Why should I help other people when I got none myself!'' 
These previous two examples may he a little removed from many of our own ex· periences, hut the next might hit closer to home: what about those of us brought up in a background of money and materialism~ Most of us Americans are, to some extent, what 
Frank Zappa would call a "Valley Girl." If we grow up used to role-playing, high-society gossip, and the other misguided ways ofthink­ing promoted by materialism, how else do we know to respond to others? 
When we were young, the message of faith was brought to us in the context of the family. The older we get, and the more time away from home we spend, the more we are in­fluenced by our peers, by society itself. (Then, it is we who end up doing the influencing.) Life at Notre Dame and St. Mary's is for many of us the first time that we have had such freedom to choose our influenes and guidance. We must think about and answer for ourselves the important questions in life such as, "How might I be happy?" 
Let us not forget that at Notre Dame and St. Mary's there remains (or perhaps is presented for the first time), the opportunity for our very close contact with our Family, this being the Church. How great is the meaning of the phrase "Notre Dame community!" 
Things in life work in cycles. Cycles that spiral upwards like a spring, remain flat, or spiral downwards. A man whose violent upbringing leads him to prison where he only knows more hate and violence, frequently t1nds himself only back in jail, a short time af­ter he's ever let out. There was the poor man only a few sort months ago who insisted to the state that he be executed immediately. (And he was.) 
Those of us who refuse to think out for our­
selves solutions to life's most important ques· 
tions, "How can I make people happy", 
pathetically remain wallowing in the muck of 
wasted potential, "playing games," "wearing 
masks" and catering to some whimsical con­
ception of what this materialistic society 
would have us he. Thus Thoreau's sad, insight· 
ful, profound statement "the mass of men live 
their lives in quiet desperation." 
But if we discover faith, the secret oflife, we began seeing our talents and abilities as tools with which to love others, and this has us feel better about ourselves, so we are able to love even more...., and we find ourselves on an up· ward spiral, that provides us with our happi· ness while we're here on Earth, and ends in 
Heaven. 
Tape tax won't solve problems 
Since 1979, the record industry has been in once did, with most chains charging 58.49 or a depression. Now in Congress is a hill which more t(>r an SH.9H list LP. It is no surprise to is aimed at rescuing the music business from me that this year's biggest-selling LP,Asia, hao; its crisis. just barely pa~sed the three million mark. ( 19H l's hest-seller,Hi Infidelity, sold twice as many.) It is cheaper to huy a high-quality 90­
Tim Neely 
minute cassette, borrow two LPs from a friend or the puhlic library, and record them than it
My Turn 
is to buy one side of most current LPs. Third and t1nally, record companies will 
The hill, if passed, would impose a "royalty" have to stop dishing out ridiculous sums of on blank tapes sold in the l'.S., to make up money in advances to artists. Perhaps one can losses claimed by the "menace of home argue that Paul McCartney and Diana Ross are taping". But during my 10 years offollowing worth multi-millions based upon past perfor· the music world, I've seen that hoe taping is mance, hut are they really worth that much not the main reason why record companies based upon future aspirations? Only are suffering. McCartney's most recent LP for Columhia has 
Although more blank tapes are sold every received anywhere near the commercial year as their quality increases, the record success of his Capitol/Apple relea~es, and companies themselves are more to blame for compared to pa.'it eft(>rts, Ross's t1rst RCA al­home taping than .\1axwell. TDK. BASF. or bum was a dismal failure both in sales and in 
I
Sony. quality. The chart life of hit artists are short in 
First there is the quality problem. Anyone all hut the most extreme cases, and to throw I who has ever purchased a prerecorded cas­away money like that is insane. sette tape from an American record company A hlank-tape tax (which is actually what the knows that, compared to a tape one can make desired "royalty" is) will only make record on his own system. the sound quality is abys­companies' problems worse. Both informal mal. Record companies have made only token studies and scientifically-conducted surveys efforts to improve this. Once in a while there have shown that the heaviest huyers of blank are special "audiophile" releases, hut these tape are the heaviest buyers of prerecorded cost much more than an average prerecorded material as well. A tax on tapes will not stop cassette. With cassettes gaining a greater people from huying tapes over records. It will share of music sales, record companies must work in reverse. Most of today's music lis­take action to improve their own product. teners want quality t1rst. They don't like 
Sec'(md. the record companies' pricing hearing Rice Krispies on their records or policies have had a great effect on sales. As whines on their tapes, and they won't pay recently as three years ago, I cot uld buy any today's prices for that. current single LP for no more than S--1.99. The record companies should have solved Today in South Bend I might t1nd LPs as "low" their problems of too-high prices and too-low as S6.99 on sale. And the price increase of --i ';s quality before they started trying to blame the is even more astronomical: three years ago I tape industry for being smart enough to know 
could pay -.~cents for one; today, no less than what today's consumer wants. Now that it is s 1.691 With prices like this. it is no wonder too late for that, the best thing to hope for is that the record business is hurting. People that sanity prevails and the ridiculous tape tax cannot alford to buy as much music as they fails in Congress. 
The -Obsenrer------== 
Editorial Board Department Managers 
'/ ;,,. {}/J!crt·er ~~ an indcpendmt new~papcr puhl1~hed hy the ~tudenb of the 
Editor-in-Chief.......... ...Michael Monk Business Manager .............................Tony Aiello
l!rmer\lty of Notre Dame duLac .tnd Saint Mary\ College. It does r.ot nt\t'~~anly 
Managing Editor................Rvan Ver Berkmoes Controller .............................................Eric Schulz
rdk,t the pol1l w~ of the adrntrll'>tr.ltlun of c1ther mstitut1on. The nL"W\ " report 
Executit•e News Editor......... : ........... ... Kelli Flint Advertising Manager....................... Chris Owen
cd J\ .ucurJtdy and .1' ohft\tl\cly as po"thle. Ed1tOrtJis reJ're-;ent the opmion of 
Sli1C Executit•e Editor............Margaret Fosmoe Production Manager..................Maura Murphy
.1 m.qonty of the hl1torul Board. ( o,n·rnent.lrie~. opinion-; and letters arc the views 
Sports Editor.... .........................Chris Needles Circulation Manager ..........................Ray lnglin
ol thctr author'. ( olumn SJ'J.te " aVJ.d.tbk to all member.~ of the tornrnuntt~·. and 
Editorials Editor ............................Paul McGinn Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley
the free expremon of \',H}'Iflg opiniOnS on lampu~. through letter), t> enLOUnged. 
Features Editor ...... ...........................Tari Brown 
Photo Editor ................................... Rachel Blount Founded November 3, 1966
P.O.Bux Q, :"lutrt: l>anu:, IN -t6'5'5(l ( 219) 2.N-S505 
f 
~ ---~~-------­
~j)l)~tS~l;l;~~t~·~;L:S==============================T=hu=r=sd=a=y,=s=ep=te~m=b=e=r=30=,=I=98=2===p=ag=e=B 
lh lb!' I JIJS!'rt'!'r antl/b!' ..ls.wcicllt'tll'rt'SS 
Dave Batton, the former :'1/otre Dame standout forward ND's women's volleyball team host~ Bethd, St. who played with the Irish from 1974-78, signed a contract as a free Francis, and Tri-State this evening in the ACC Pit. The Iri~h takt' on agent yesterday with the NBA Washington Bullets. Batton. who was Ikthel at 4::W, and face the winner of the St. Francis-Tri-State match 
drafted in the first round in 1978 by the New Jersey Nets but at 6 p.m. -The Ohserl'er rejected their offer, had played the previous three seasons in Europe. The "Irish Colt," as Batton was affectionately call~d, appeared at the Logan Center Basketball Game two weeks ago and scored 14 points. -The Observer The SMC volleyball team plays host to Purdue· 
Calumet this evening at 6 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. It is the home opener for Erin Murphy's Belles, who have played their first four matches on the road. Saint Mary's is 2-2 so far this season. -The
Cross Country meets will be held on three successive Obser11er Thursdays, beginning October 7. The two-and-a-half mile races will be run on the golf course. Team or insurance forms must be turned in to the NVA office before October 7. The races will start and finish at the second tree, where racers are asked to gather by 4: IS p.m. on Irishwomen's basketballteam will hold tryouts the day ofeach race. -The Observer on Oct. 4 in the ACC Pit at 7 p.m. For furtht'f information, call 2.W­
S420. -The Observer 
The Martial Arts Association will hold a second or­ganizational meeting tonight at 6:30 in Room 219 of Rockne Gym. 
The Ultimate Frisbee club has its tlrst match onThe instructors will be present to field questions. All interested Saturday at Valparaiso University at II :jO a.m. Those interested inparties, especially beginners, are invited to attend. For more in­playing with the club should call J6j6 or 287-S20S. -The Obserl'erformation, call 8241. -The Observer 
Men's Volleyball Club is holding tryouts for 
The field hockey match between :'llotre Dame and pro~pt'ctive members Monday, Oct. <-!, in the ACC Fieldhouse. The Houghton College. which was originally schedukd t(>r yesterday, cluh b looking for players with high school or liSVBA experience. In was postponed and rescheduled for this afternoon at j p.m. at addition, there is a mandatory meeting for allformer club members Alumni Field. Coach Jan Bishop's Irish are 8-1 going into today's tonight at -:.>,0 in Room IS ofSorin llall. All t(>r'nlt'r players unahle to 
action -The Ohsen•er 

attt'nd are asked to contack Clark (;ihson at 8-!48. -The 0/Jsen•er 
INTERHALL 
INTERHALL TENNIS PAIRINGS 
These are the draws for the thtrd round of the NVA tennrs tournament Results must be grven to the NVA office by 5 p m on Wednesday. Oct 6. Therew111 bno extensrons tor any reason Both players wt/1 default 
any unplayed matches 
Advanced Men·s Singles Mrke Breen v Jeff Chou Chns lshtkawa v John Ztebert Mtke Vanderbeck IJ. Kevm 0 Bnen Tom Wtlkas"' John Bosco Barry Fay v Peter Pokorny Lu1s Galup v Pat Jeffers Btll Boroczek"' Rob Ebert Larry Duncan IJ Tom Bauer Juan Humbert v Tom Wheeland Paul Z1mmer v Rob Heglln Tom Lentnger IJ John DeFrances 
John McGreevy v Scott Feudo 
Novice Men's Singles 
Rob Polasek v Pat H1ckle Charles Kromkowskt v Randy Rtchter SteYe Brennan IJ Brtan Kaufman 
Women·s Singles Mary Easterday v Kelly Frank Kathy lmmonen v Tncta Huberty Susan Gordon"' Ltnda Cleveland Joanne Sw1ec1ak v Nora Lynch 
Mixed Doubles Roberts·O Leary v Hess· Hess Kromkowskt-0 Bnen v Reyes-Schwebel Stevenson-Vanderbeck v Batley-Berry Regan-Oman v Jantzy·Zelazny Wilkas·Muno v Purko·Rugg1ero Swe1d1ak-Straub v Voltura-Voegele Fay·NIII v Lynch-Walker Wtlkas-Pavm v Katser-Hayes 
Grad-Fac Singles Chns Valenta 1277·2914) v Ed Mehnert (277­0473) Don Castro (288·37731 v Sue Roberts 







The Observer will accept classtfteds Mon· day through Frtday 10 am to 430 pm However classtfteds to appear •n the next tssue ·nust be reretved by 3 p.m. the bustness day pnor ll' tnsertton All, lasstf•eds ·nust be prepatrl 
e1tt1er tn person or tlmtugt1 the •narl 
Classifieds 
CABINS FOR REN r 45 m1nures lrom Notre Dame 616-424-~117 1627 Lauren rsmc) 5072 1723 JAWS" Wed & fhur 7 9 15. t 1 30. Eng Aud JAWS" IS YOUR HAIR GETTING IN THE WAY 2 BEDROOMS 280 UNFUR 320 
NOTICES Need Mramr and Penu Sll1x brg I nne Call need 2 GAs for ARIZONA game call Needed 2 T" to Penn ~late $ $ $ Bob ­
FOR SALE PLENTY 'MIAMI TIX' BEST NEED fiX TO MIAMI AND ANY OTHER 
Very weaiH1y tndiVIdual needsOF YOUR STUDIES?? CALL MICHOLE FUR ON PORTAGE CALL 234·8918 
OFFERCALLxl535 HOME GAME CHRIS· t 730 
2 Miami G.A.s how 'bout them regma chicks, am't they
FOR A HAIRCUT TODAY' ONLY $4 FOR 

and slick 
GUYS AND $6 FOR GIRLS BEST TO 

FURNISHED 5 ROOM APT 3 FRIEND PLEASE HELP ME I desper~tely need HEY all you crazy w1ld people out there !' hvm· m closets over at smC
2 Penn St. G.A. sCALL AFTER 3 AT 7850 L Y FEMALES. NEED 4TH RENT NOW 
up to 4 GA '>.lor the Mtom1 game Wtll pay We rteed Tickets and Will pay you all the 
Call Par at 8652 in the b1ggest room that you could tmd 
XMAS CALL LIZ X4263 

$$ Call Oebb1e at 284-43 t t money we haYe for 2 Penn St GA's and 2 
y"goffa step our m the hall to change your
WORD PROCESSING SYSTEM $2995 M1am1 GA's Make two really sweet grrls Need 4 GAs and 2 students for Arrzona mmd 64K Mtcrocomputer.letter quality pnnter. WANTED FEMALE ROOMMATE 101 

Need M1Ch1gan State Ttx! an olfer your mom wrl! be proud! call 'Very 
Call SMC 4451 every guy Knows one cuz they're the
word process1ng software. CP/M. Baste N D Apts lhru X mas $90/mlh xtat 3 
SeYeral GAs Wdnled for road lrtp to East nch ctndy or much well to do katte at2948 youngest class-Call 277· 7720 
Lansrng lh1s weekend Please call 693 t 11 NOW I NEED 2 MIAMI GAS PLEASE CALL the younger they are, the cuter the (face) 
TWO APTS '" one house for rent each you can help 

TRACY X8009 can anyone be a regma smc? NEED CREDIT? Information on receiVIng has LR. KT. BR. Iron! porch. 165/175 tOR 
YO'I need 4 tickets tor Penn State Bruno JUSt as long as vou·re nnt claustrophobiC! 
Visa. Mastercard. wtth no credit check 320 for whole house) ut1hlles. 718 E Col· I Will pay t OO$tor four M1am1 GAs or two and the rest of the Mob from Ph1lly Will do Needed M1am1 T1x Call B1ll at 8922 Other cards ava;lable Free brochure Call fax. 234·4620 evemngs GAs and two student 11cket Call George me 1n 11 I don t get them Money 15 no HAPPY BIRTHDAY Steve' Bruce' 
Personal Credit Sefv1ce (602) 946·6203 at 8684 problem Call Fran 4385 NEED!'! One. two. three rv,1amt GAs Gten(nJ1 Bob !Alias Abe 1 Its 11me toExt 3648 Parents comtng long way for frst NO celebrate So. Why aren t we dnnk­Need 4 GAs to M1am1 & Anzona Call Need 2 G As to the Penn State gaGame game Please Call Ray at t t 77 tng??? W1sh you all the best throughoutNEED A RIDE TO NEW YORK CITY over 7970 
can rade up to 4 G A s tor the Mtamt the com1ng HANGOVERS• Love. lall break .. wlll pay call G1na 6553 
WANTED 

game Call 712·755-3156 day or 3277 Need mega-bad JUSt ONE ARIZ tiCket lor Andrea. Kathy. Carolyn Celeste See the Who one last ttme 4 11x for the qct MoM tllrst ND game s1nce t 96 t I Call
JAWS'! Wed & Thur. 7.9 15. t t 30. Eng 6 concert at the Rosemont Honzon Call 
FOR THOSE WHO MISSED THE MICH~ Conn1e at 43 t t Gerry Parshall-thanks for mak1ng my
Aud.JAWSI! Need nde to WORCESTER. MASS OR 1.195 
GAN STATE LOTTERY: I have two day!lr A fnend 
BOSTON for Ocr Break Call Sue at 284· WILL TRADE 2 OCT 6 WHO TIX FOR 2 
Michigan State GA"s I'd like to trade for LOGAN REC Th1s Sat . Oct 2. w111 be 5193 Need 4 M1am1 GAs Call t 225 OCT 5 TIX CALL BOB AT 6842
either Arizona GA's or Miami student Thts place 15 messyFARM TRIP REC It beg1ns at 10.00 and 
tix. I can make up the difference In ends at 3·00 PM Lunch w111 be prov1ded RIDE NEEDED TO THE NEW YORK I NEED MICHIGAN TICKETS! DAVE 
cash. Please contact Mlchele--x3793. BEN Knute l1ves Go to phone booth 111 AD 
PLEASe ATTEND!' CITY FOR OCTOBER BREAK ...WJLL 1773 BUILDING al 4 00 today 
PERSONALS
LEAVE WHENEVER AND WILL SHARE 

THERE ONCE WAS A GIRL FROM N.D. HAPPY BIRTHDAY MOM II LOVE YOUI THE USUAL CALL CHRIS AT x3510 OR HELP1 NEED FOUR GA MIAMI TIX IN 
WHOSE PHONE WAS 7983 What rs green and 1ceskates? Bug me.

YOUR SON, GLENN x8573 ANYTIME ORDER TO GET MY SUMMER JOB SHE NEEDED GA'S lam not telhng' Are you grouchy?
BACK1 PLEASE CALL JOHN AT 277· and so. rt began
SO HELL WOULDN'T RAISE Lake Mtchtgan beach cottage 30 mt from NEEDED RIDE for 2 to U ol M1ch · Ann 1708 PREFERABLY AFTER 1 t OOpm 
FOR THE GAME VERSUS MIAMI-EE 
IS YOUR f-LIGHT COSTING YOU $3QQ?ND Steeps t 2 F~replace Outdoor bar· Arbor Ocr t ·3 call M1ke 4388 or Steve (had to rnake 11 rhyme. you know--01ane Remember Tnsh Gullo for Prestdent and FLY FIRST CLASS FROM SOUTHbeque Ideal lor housepart1es $ t 50 3 day 1857 Need 3 or 4 GAs for ARIZONA game Jantce Hewlll tor Vtce Presrdent for a
WILL pay b1g bucl<s. the parenlal umts are 
BEND FOR THE SAME PRICE CALL very weallt1yt1
weekend phone 616 469 0148 Please call Tom. 3360 untied Regtna I would ltke ~o thank LEON 6740 
awesome 3rd North tor supporttng Jantce MY DEAREST KEL. ternoon wtll share usual expen3es call HELPII I NEED t OR 2 TICKETS FOR and me 1n our campatgn wrth spec1al 
NEED RIDE TO PURDUE.th1s fnday af· WILL PAY BIG MONEY FOR 4 PENN OK QK!I How bout $10 for my rug? Must 

I HAVE LEARNED MORE ABOUT THE BRIAN at t 064 MIAMI STUDENT OR GAS PLEASE tthanks to Jenntfer Malouf and Helen
STATE GA TIX. CALL 3t2·565-5959 sell Call Tom at 1217
TRUE MEANING OF LIFE FROM YOU. CALL TONY AT 8872 McCormack -Love. Tnsh
COLLECT AND ASK FOR STEVE THEN I WOULD EVER HAVE THOUGHT Wanted A Cheap B1ke TJ. 277·8061 LONGLEY. 
JEFF: I am truly sorry lor "pimping'"

POSSIBLE IN SUCH A Sl:iORT TIME Wtlllrade 1 Arrzona GA for erther 1 Mram1 MARKETING CLUB TICKET RAFFLE you on these pages last week, but theHAVE GROWN AND STUCK TOGETH· RIDE NEEDED TO WASHINGTON DC GA or student 11cket Call Dave at I 380 I truly need 4 Mta.mt and Artzona GA t1x for 2 GAS FOR MIAMI AND ARIZONA cook1es made up for it Perhaps we canER THROUGH THE HARD TIMES AS FOR OCTOBER BREAK CALL BREN· Chtcago area Chrrstran Brothers and U S GAMES CHANCES 3/$1 FOR hit the bars with you alter the MSUWELL AS THE BECAUSE IF YOU DAN ANYTIME .. WILL SHARE THE desperately need t pa1r GAs to Anzona Nayy personnel If you can help our th1s MARKETING CLUB MEMBERS AND game and observe your "technique"WEREN T YOU AND I WASN T ME· WE USUAL--· 7997 game $no ObJect Call Tom at 232· 7793 poor soul and save h1m from eternal 2/$1 FOR OTHERS TO ENTER CON· (but is there a Ramada Inn nearby?).­
WOULDN.T US !II THANK YOU FOR aher t 1pm damn alton call John at 1580 TACT MATT WESTOVER (277·4305) Rosanna P.S. Watch your bumpers lorBEING THE WONDERFUL PERSON WANTED MIAMI GAS Call 287·3538 TIM THIRY 116511. MARGARET the sudden appearance of Tiger HawkTHAT YOU ARE AND THANK YOU FOR Want 2 or 4 t1x for any home football IRATE ~ARENJS AND SISTER MCCARTHY (2909). OR JIM 0 HARA stickers.
THE MOST WOI\IDERFUL 12 MONTHS WANTED Responstble person to ptck up game Wllltng to pay the gomg ra.te DEMAriO MIAMI TIX 2 GA AND t STU 13275) DRAWING HELD THE WED· 
OF MY LIFE'" proless1onal couples chtldren from Please call collect (312) 377·91 t 7 NEEDED CALL SUSAN AT 284·5526 NESDAYBEFOREEACHGAME 
LOST One green & wh1te checked I LOVE YOU school 3 days/week. superv1se play. ap· 
n1gh<gown Monogram·JFC II found. 

YOUR DEAREST B·NEL px 10 hrs/wk. 5/hr gas. carrequ11ed 234· HELP NEED 2 PENN STATE GAS CALL Desperate lor 2 Penn St GAs' Good$$$ please return to 302 Stanford Desperate·
4620 eventngs Famtly maktng soJourn from West Vtrgtnfa JOHN A 1751 Call Tom. 1417 ly needed 1 hillS to South Bend need 2 M1arm GAs for Parents W1ll Pay UNITED WAY UNITED WAY SEPT 26· HAPPY BIRTHDAY PEGS MACHINE
!LOST/FOUND I 
Need two M1am1 student or GA II)( so I can 

Top Dollar Call Scott at t 735 OCT 3 GIVE YOUR FAIR SHARE $2 00 Introduce 
Chap1n. Ever been to Australia? Wanna them to football'

LOST· One blaCk lizard sk•n founta1n pen l.___F_O__R_S_A__L_E___.I WANTED 4 G A s for Penn State game DAN KEUSAL AND FRIENDS RETURN come? Chns 
Cali Scotl at 693 t W111 pay b1g bucks Call collect. Steve TOTHENAZZ-FRI OCT8t000·11 00 Longlev at 312-565·5959. ext 2081 
lost tn the L1brary or outstde of 11 Pen has 

great sentimental value Please help me MELINDA' Why don I you drop byWORD PROCESSING SYSTEM. $2995 
1n th1s matter Call Rob at 347911 you have UNITED WAY THANKS TO YOU IT somet1me a«er lunch. d1nner. or When­64K Mtcrocomputer. letter qual1ty pnnter. Need t STU TICK and 2 GAs lor MIAMI NEED FOUR MIAMI GA TIXS WILL PAY WORKS PLEASE GIVE YOUR FAIR
seen 1t eYer It may be the only chance I can get
word processmg software. CP/M. Baste PLEASE HELP!' CALL 289·9304 BIG BUCKS CALL MIKE 8265 SHARE $2 00 
to talk to you' Good luck tn the tourny Fn Lost. Pa1r ot gold w1re nm glasses on nile TRY TO GET SOME SLEEP"
Call277·7720 Needed 2 Penn St GAs & 2 Sr TX Mark

Thursday. 9/23. between the Grotto and Need 4 MIAMI TIX Call Jasper at 232· PICK YOUR OWN APPLES II at the John 
4258 
7017 USED BOOKS Bought. Sold. Searched

Hayes-Healy Reward Call Bob 282· Hancock Fru1t Farm. From South Bend. And on the eighth day he created 
1857 take U S.20 east 6 m11es aher 20 AMBROSE & STEBERERASMUS BOOKS Tues·Sun. t 2·6 NEFD ARIZONA TICKET. STUDENT or Desperately needed 2 MIAMI GAs w1ll crosses the lnd1ana East West Toll Road. 
lor
t 027 E Wayne One Block South ol GA. CALL 3242 

pay mega$$ Call Randy 7982 on Road.Eddy-Jefferson lntersectton
LOST KODAK INSTAMATIC CAMERA turn nghJ {north) FarJ loHow President & Vice-President 
Lost at M1ch1gan Game-aiSle 32·33 ln1· s1gns (2191 778·2096 Also ready· HE wants your votes lor them
HELP'

llals are on 11. M V.s Please Call. 284· NEED ONLY ONEGA to MIAMI game' p1cked apples. plums. pears: honey VOTE TODAY!
MARCHING BAND MEMBER NEEDS GOOD $$1Dave 8296
5443 FOR SALE 2 Oak desks. 50 typewnrer & Jams. candles etc Vtsrt our Farm Market TWO MIAMI TICKETS FOR FAMILY 
60 off1ce If 1n1erested please call 289· & orchards on your way to and from 
LOST: PINK PLAID UMBRELLA OF 5375 DESPERATELY NEED FOUR TIX TO Chicago Open everyday from 9·6 OFFICE PARTY Desperately need 2 G As for N D vs 
ARIZ GAME GA OR STUD PLEASE M1am1!' Call SMCx44 t 2 CALL 4281 11 
GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE tnterolttce memo 
WOODEN HANDL': AND LEATHER I need riders to ST. LOUIS. Want to go 
thts fnday !here wtlt be an Ottrce party CARRYING STRAP CALL MOAT 4076 home? VIsit friends? Etc.? Leaving (stop) 1f some good mus1c

you want tor PLEASE!'!! For sale 1 MSU ttcket Lows 4602 HELP1 Famtly and fnends want to see Thursday afternoon, September 30. 
and tun people 11 would be w1se to allend awesome lnsh Need 2 GAs tor Anzona Call Bob at 864t. 

(slop) all1nqu1nes should be addressed 10
TICKETS 
NEED TWO TICKETS FOR MIAMI.G A ana f St~d for Penn St Call Kev1n at 


the managers lend)
OR STUDENT.CALL t247.ASK FOR 1441 HEY REGINA FRESHMEN"' VOTE FOR 

the management
PAT OR J PAUL GETTY 

FOR RENT Uoyd
MARY BETH LAVEZZORIO AND LINDA 

WHO TIX FOR SALE good seats both MSU GA. MIAMI OR ARIZONA SUDENT CASCIO PRESIDENT AND VICE 
Jrm
nrtes 1n Chl287·9342 or 272·9321 HELP' GIRLFRIEND WILL HAVE MY TIX TO SELL OR TRADE FOR PENN PRESIDENT WE WONT FORGET 

Joe

Furnished home 2 blocks from campus HEAD IF I DON T GET 5 MIAMI TIX! STATE TIX WANDA 7770 YOU-DON T YOU FORGET US" ANY 
Marty

also counlry house 10 m1ns. from N.D JEFF 2257 SUGGESTIONS PLEASE CALL US cc everybody who s anybody Call 277·360~r 288-0955 
NEED MIAMITIX call Tom t 1?3 SS 
284 4200 284 4, 36" OFFICE PARTY 
The Obsern.'r Thursday, Septe~ber 30, 1982-pag~ 9 
Atlanta, LA, SF vie for NL West crow-n 
LOS A:'-JGELES ( AP) -With time win the NL west mini-series. NL running out. the Atlanta Brave;,, l.o;, championship series and World Angeles Dodgers and San francisco Series a year ago. (iiants remain locked in ba;,ehall's The Gianb, an early season bust, tightest division race -a three-wav rallied with baseball's best record battle for surviv<tl that could force~ since the All-Star game to pull within playoff for the National League w·est one game of first place on Sunday 
crown. only to lose two straight to Atlanta The three teams went into the last drop hack -but not too far back. five days of the National League How did Atlanta regain the top West IJattle separated hy only two spot' Manager Joe Torre said Tues­games and hy Sundav thev all could day night in San Francisco that his he deadlocked foir the title, forcing players rededicated themselves to 
playoffs for the playoff berth against an aggressive style -going for the St. Louis, the NL East champ. extra base, stealing whenever pos­All three clubs are united hy sible, swinging away and diving for 
memories ofthe hot and cold streaks 
every hall in the field. that have kept their race alive. The Braves led the Dodgers by one game and were ahead of the Giants by two games going into 
...Irish

Wednesday night's action. Atlanta opened a two-game series against Los Angeles at Dodger Stadium, and 
continuedfrom page 10
San Francisco was at home to play Houston Wednesday night and "Terese seems like she improves Thursday night. each time she goes out on the 
Atlanta, division leader for more court," says Vanslager. "Her con­than four months, went through its 
fidence level is growing."
dry spell in August when the Braves "Tracy Bennington is learninglost 19 of 21 games to fall out offirst 
more and more about herself," ex­
place. 
plains Anderson. "She's learnin·gNow it's the Dodgers' turn to suf­
how to use her body as well as her
fer -with a losing streak that mind. So far she doesn't have any
reached seven games Tuesday night. 
limitations because she is a very
Los Angeles scored just 13 runs in physical piayer:"
those seven games. October should to
"I feel like we're on a march," said prove be a Atlanta's Terry Harper, whose three­
good test for the team as it hits the run double led the Braves in their 8-road starting Saturday with a tourna­3 victory over the Giants Tuesday ment at Saint Mary's. The squad does night. not return to the ACC Pit until after "This is just a test of how strong break. we are," said Dodger outfielder "The girls need better competi­Dusty Baker. And if any team in tion to play to their potential," says recent baseball history has snown it Anderson. "I look forward to next can recover when things look hope­year when the competition will be less it is the Dodgers. Three times tougher. This year is like a practice they came back from early deficits to for next year."
f''SKY'''D:,,,,,J 
' ~ ~ 
--~ ...... '~ 
-~ ., ~
-~ "' '~ i: SKYSTREAM !I 
' ~ 
~ STUDENT FIRST JUMP INSTRUCTION ' 
~ TRAIIIIIIG F£ES: $90 per student training includes ~ !'-ground school, first static line jump, equipment rental, ~ -parachute pocking, jump master, airlift. jjl ~ STATIC LIIIE JUMPS: $18.00/ jump_:_ need o minimum ~ ~ of 5 static line jumps. "­~ STUDEit FREE FALL: $15.00/ jump -up to 5,500 ft. ~ --::~~1ne;_ jump master, equipment rental & parachute ~ 
' Group rates are available '­
~ STUDENT TRAINING CLASSES: ~ ~ Start 9:00A.M. Sat. & Sun. ­
1'-Come down and watch, our staff will answer any ,. 
~ questions you might hove. ~ 
~ snnc LIIIE JUIP ~~~~~~~~~e~~:irplone by the static 
~ line wnicn outomoticolly deploys the cnute. A minimum of 5 ore 
~ required. 
"" CWI AJID PULL: Stvdent jumps ond deploys cnute immediately by 
~ pulling nis npcord. 
~ flEE FAll: Delaying the pull until 2,500 ft., !hus falling for o time 
jjl 
"" maintaining stable Aignt. !'­
~ IEUnYE WOil (JW): A number of jumpers together using freefall ' 
I'-t1me to complete formations at altitude. jjl 
"" THE FU (FEDUAL lYIATIOII ASSOC.) requires e~ery jumper to wear !'­
~ two chutes-" main and o re.erve. Tfwt reseNe must be pocked by o ~ 
~ FAA certified rigger. ~ 
' For further information call: ' ~ Goshen Municipal Airport 533-8245 ~ 
~................................................................................................................
.., 


1 
l ~ 
I 

Veteran Reggie Smith (right) bas led the San nant race. San Francisco hosts the Los Angeles Francisco Giants back into the National League Dodgers three games this weekend while first West race. The Giants defeated the Houston Astros place Atlanta plays in San Diego. (AP Photo) last night, 6-1, to remain in the thick ofthe pen-

attention: 
Now Accepting Applications for Senior Formal Committees May be picked up 
Thursday, Sept. 30 at LaFortune or St. Mary's Student Activities 
Applications due 5:00pm Friday, Oct. 1 
... 

The Thomas More Society of Notre Dame presents its first Witnmas Sore <nrinftrenre 12:30 pm -11:00 pm Saturday, Oct. 2, 1982 Galvin Life Science Auditorium 12:30 Registration 1:00 St. Augustine and St. Thomas More: Two Catholic Rhetoricians Joseph Berrigan, Professor of History, University of Georgia 2:15 Thomas More: English Leader and European Statesman John Gueguen, Professor of Political Science, Illinois State University 4:00 Panel Forum on Liberal Education Dr. Charles Wegener, University of Chicago Dr. James Carberry, School of Engineering -Author of L1beral Educatton and the Modern University -Professor of Chemical Engineering Dr. Ralph Mcinerny, Director of Maritain Center Dr. John Houck, School of Business -Professor of Philosophy, Director of Medieval institute -Professor of Business Organization &Management I 6:30 Dinner, Faculty Dining Room, South Dining Hall I .j!7:30 The Wit and Wisdom of Thomas More Ralph Mcinerny, Director of the Maritain Center, University of Notre Dame Memorial Library 8:00 & 10:15 Film: A Man for All Seasons Library Auditorium 9:00 Slide Presentation: More's Professional and Family Life Library Lounge Sponsored by the Thomas More Society of Notre Dame with the Colleges of Arts and Letters. Business. Engineering. and Science. the Law School, the Med1eval Institute. and the Departments of Government. History, English and the Program of Liberal Stud1es.  


Nortbern Illinois last Saturday. With the vic/01')'. 
... 
Dine among the antiques and enjoy our view of the new downtown! 
Reservations Appreciated 234~9000 121 South Niles South Bend 
----------------~ ------­

The Observer Thursday, September 30, 1982 -page 10 

the Cats snapped a .H-g(//11£' losing streak. See page 12 for the latest poll. ( AP Photo) 
ltnproved Irish find success in Septetnber 
By MIKE SULLIVAN plaver~. freshmen .\lary .'\tcl.aughlin .Sj}(}r/s Writer and Karen Bautt:rs, have proven to be the team's most potent scorers. 
Before this year·~ ~otre Dame while the new offensive plays have women's volleyball team took to tht· sun:essfully used fakes £0 distract courts in early September, there w-,a~ the opponents' deknses. Offensive: guarded optimism about the team·,, execution has also improved. chancc:s this year. After disappoinr-"We're dd!Qltcly stronger ot: ing ~Tars of _)-19 and l--2s. it wa' ft:nsively this y·ear," says Coach diflkult to envisagt: great success in Sandy Vanslager. "The passing is just one year's time. However, after really good at this point in the mort: than a third of the: season, it is season. Sc.:rving was also vc:ry good apparc:nt that there is tremntdous up to the last game." improvc:ment. "We're very weak defensively. 
Entering tonight's competition however. we·re weak at the net. against Bethel College. the: Irish are blocking-wise. We should show im­undd(:ated at home and H-:1 overall. pro1-ement hy the end ofthe season. including a thrilling upset over Mid-though." west power Michigan State. An .HllO ,\nother noticeable improvement season is now a distinct possibilit1. b in the team's attitude. The losing 
Adth:d t:xpericntT in the form of -'t:asons brought lapses in concentra­two more: scholarship players and a tion. Winning has brought with it a nc:w otlense are the major reasons winning attitude, howt:ver. for this sudden success. The two "Psychological tnomentum and 
,..-----------------------...., concentration is Marting to im-
AUdiO consultant to speak on 
prove,"says\'anslager.. "Thegirlsart• cognizant of the fact that they go up
advances in musical technology 
and down in psychological momen­tum. but they are starting to be abk 
On October 1, Paul R. Matwiy will be giving a 10 act on it." 
Up to this point in the: season. seminar, COmplete With demonstratiOnS, -On What Vanslager has done very little jug­
mUSiC is and hOW audio technology affects music. gling with the starting lineup. McLaughlin, BatHers, co-captainsHe is an audio consultant to the Denver Technical! Josie Maternowski and Mary Jo 
Center, and has been in audio retailing, both Hensler, and Terese Henken have home and professional, for nearly a decade. He remained tlxtures in the lineup,
while: Julia Pierson, jackie Pagley,has sold hi-fi to musicians such as Judy Collins and Tracy Bennington have al­and Dan Fogelberg. The talk will include tapes of tt:rnateu at the sixth position_ The improvement in the play of live music performed by Jim Messina and Henken, a junior walk-on, and Ben-McGuinn, Clark and Hillman. Seminar times will nington. a freshman watk-on, has 
be 3 p.m. and at 7 p.m. at Audio Specialists, 401 impressed Vanslager and Assistant 
Coach Dan Anderson. 
N. Michican in South Bend. 
See IRISH, page 9 


... 
-.------------------------------------------------·------.----------------------------------.~~~------------------~---~----------~ 
The Observer7 
/ 

T0 d~x==============T=h=u=r=sd=a=y=,=Se=p=t=e=m=b=e=r=3=0=,=1=9=8=2==pa=g=e==ll 

ACROSS 23 ''Nothing 49 Ethiopian 15 9-mm. car· Lady of can -lie" prince bines the house 25 Girl 50 ·'What a 20 More
The Daily Crossword 
5 Salamanders 27 Solar disk good boy -·• despicable 9 Arrow 28 Emphasized 51 Gait 22 Upper thigh poison 30 Light wave 53 Sagacious armor 11 Contemptu· amplifiers 54 Farm signs 24 Stop ously bold 32 Movie of good 26 Feed for 
13 Farm signs locales times hogs of bad 33 Nessen and 57 Indicate 29 Let it Urnes Howa~ 58 Toothsome stand 
16 BPOE word 34 Clothe 59 Stocking 31 Poker bets 
17 Roman pro· 37 Set of nuisances 33 Kind of curator of seven 60 Basketball tire Judea 41 Porsena team 34 A Preakness 
18 Vile sneak 42 Gait winner 19 Egg: comb. 44 Fundamental DOWN 35 Jewish form character 1 Gloomier canonical 20 Scene of 45 Wood strips 2 Bowlike law confusion 47 Subtle curves 36 Highway 21 Condition emanations 3 --jongg vehicle 4 Tortilla's 37 Davis's relative domain 5 Formerly, 38 Tufted 
once herbs 6 Destinies 39 Comfortably 7 Lao--warm 8 Like a saw 40 Curves 9 Actress 43 Grazing 
Corinne area 10 Foodstuffs 46 Descendant 11 Gods of 48 Indo· 
Canaan European 12 More 52 Hill orderly dwellers 13 Mexican 53 Habit laborers 55 African 14 Make antelope~.;;i;;i;;;;.,:;~;,:;;;;;;;;;;:,.-,...;.;;.;;:..;;;;;;;;o=~~ entreaties 
56 Fib
1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Res(lrved 
········································~ 

i RUSH LOTTERY i &nior Bar 
i Sept. 30 7:30pm : SJ 
Seniors 

: at the Nazz t 
:Get your tickets for the concert coming i your weekend starts :to Notre Dame on Nov. 5. :.. ~i~-, ~-_,:... ~~ everyThursday at 
• "! -''•\ ·--·;.·-· ,. -~ '::'-·ly't 
: fo!~~~:~;r~(~{~~~.{..~, '-. + Senior Bar • • ·" \~'!y ....~ ..-~l;~} : 
_.. open 9:30till2:00
: Ttckets are $10.50, $11.50'Z~\::~·.:~-;~.iJ-:.}~~·'"ttp• 
................................~"li~.,.JJ..~~.J 
\ I
--~-----""-~·~...."--~....._ ---__ _lf/' ~ -~ .... 
Doonesbury 

GI\Y :' L.OUI~Lyoo l'\EAN 
THf\T Y6!1 60 wT Wlnl 

Garry Trudeau 




..,.-uE.RE'S .J,,IJ A)PII:I}.i. 
1-<fV GfO(~;
. I1 I 7'5 r;.~;).t;l' 
,._.,w .I ,.,u.5T rlf<VE ,_.AD ,..-,o.ef -m 0" 1,uk rf-/4N .::r THOUGHT/ 

Campus 
U~ .. NOI<t. 

[JOE S 5C5Y"''£ t3ofJY tJH:. 0 f"J Y 1-1 E L P ? 
• 
\2:\ ') p.m. -Facutly Forum Discussion, "Facuhv Participation in l"nin:rsity Governance"', Lihrary Lounge, Sponsored by Faculty Senate •-l p.m. -Radiation lab Seminar, "'Interplay of 

n. 
pi and pi,pi State~ in Some Carbonyl Com· pounds", Dr. P.K. Da~. Radiation Laboratory Con· ference Theatre 

•·t. 
and ~ p.m. -Heritage of Ireland Film Series, "The Rural Tradition"', Carroll llall. Sponsored by S:\IC Department of llistory 

•i:.~O 
p.m. -Mathematics Colloquim, "'An OH-rvit.'w of the Congruence Subgroup Prohkm"', Prof Tony Bad... 226 CC.\IB 


•<> .~o p.m. -Spanish Club Organizational Meeting, l.al'ort une Vol. Service., Room 1st tloor •-. '):I'), .tnd 1 I :.'>0 p m. -Film, "J.m·~". Engincn· ing Auditorium. ~pon,ornl hv :--rudent IEEE •-:50 p.m -Film, "Hiroshima. .\lon Amour"·. Ar chitecture Auditorium. Sponsornl by l'rogr.un in American Studies •-:.~0 p.m. -Lecture, .. ~,·stem and Evidence: l>emamh of \lodcrn Thought"'. Kenneth Schmitz. l niver,..it\· ofTorumo. .\kmoriall.ihrar\" Lounge 
•<J:Ot) 
p.m. -'1/azz.John :--ase 

• 
1 0·01 l p m.-Nazz. ()pen stage 


T~V. Tonight 
6 p.m.  16  ~ewsCemer I(,  
ll  22 Eye\\·itne~!'\ ~t'W!'I  
.211  .:\ew swatch .!H  
.H  The .\lac:\eii/Lehrer Report  
6:30p.m.  16  .\I*A*~*II  
ll  Family Feud  
.28  Tic Tac Dough  
3'1  ~traight T.tlk  
7p.m.  16  Fame  
22  .\lagnum PI  
.28  Joanie Loves Chad1i  
3'1  Sneak Previews  
7:30p.m.  .28  Tht· Star ofthe Family  
34  This Old !louse  
8p.m.  16  Cheers  
ll  Simon and Simon  
.28  Too Close for Comfort  
34  Odnsey  
8:30p.m.  16  Taxi  
9p.m.  16  II ill Street Blues  
ll  Knots Landing  
22  20/20  
34  The Y<:ar That Time Changed  
9:30p.m.  34  Inside Business Today  
IOp.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Ey<:witness News  
28  Newswatch 2H  
34  The Dick Cavett Show  
10:30 p.m.  16  Tonight Show  
22  Quincy and .\lcCiol,ld  
28  ABC :\lews Nightlint·  
34  Caption<:<.! ABC :\lews  
11 p.m.  28  \"<:gas  
11:30 p.m.  16  Late :\light wi4h David Lett<:rman  
Br•tan  The saga of a 6 month old domer.  

r-· 
-


I' 

.----~--~----~----------~~ 
r-~-­
•
~ 

Thursday, September 30, 1982 -page 12 
Confusion reigns 

North-western finally wins a gatne 
It will, perhaps, always be remembered as "Black Saturday." Years from now, college football fans will tell their grandchildren of the day the sport was thrown into chaos. In the coming generations, the legend will grow, obscuring fact in myth. 


The day Northwestern finally won. 
The Bottom Ten voters, dazed and confused by the Bottom Ten catastrophe, were unable to function coherently. Regionalism was rampant as voters cast their ballots. As 
1) Michigan (0-2)

the votes were tallied, it became clear. There could be 
I) New Mexico State (0-4)

no replacement for the Mildcats at the top of the poll. 1) Oregon (0-4)
When all was said and done, when the final vote was 
1) Oregon State (0-3)

cast and counted, when a new day dawned -despite I) Virginia (0-3)
predictions to the contrary -there was mayhem at the 10) Northwestern (1-2)
top of Botom Ten. A nine-way tie -the first in the history of college 
Also receiving votes: football mediocrity -served only to prolong the con­
Oklahoma (I-2) troversy. The ramifications were awe-inspiring. 
CBS' coverage ofDiv. III football (0-3) At Eastern Michigan, where the Hurons inherited the 
Northern Illinois (1-2, but does it matter?) nation's longest losing streak-a paltry 22 in a row ­
Quote of the Week: University officials promptly fired the football coach, 
Northern Illinois Coach Bill Mallory, after the tri­Mike Stock. 
umphant loss to Northwestern: "Our kicking game "It was an absolute shock and a total disappoint­
stunk. Our offense stunk. Our defense stunk. We just stunk."
ment," said Stock. "I gave it my best shot." And what a shot it was. One wonders just how many more defeats Stock could have engineered had he been allowed to stay. 
Insecondary 

Oh well, just another sad story in a day marked by tragedy. Luckily, cooler heads prevailed at Corvallis. Twice, it 
Spielmaker lends depth to Irish 
seemed that the Beavers had scored unfortunate touch­downs. Both times, however, some quick-thinking 
By STEVE LABATE coverage entirely on himself, one of the teams and in the secondary, Spielmakerplayer had the foresight to commit a penalty, preserving 
Sports Writer other five defensive backs in the game on worked extremely hard last winter. Going a 17-13 Ios1> to San Jose State. 
that play should have picked up the wide into spring workouts, he was determined In the North country, word apparently did not reach In German, Spielmaker translated means 
open receiver. "We've been waiting in­in his efforts to catch the eye of the the Maine Black Bears in time to ruin their day. If you "game-maker." stead of going after the ball," says Spiel­
coaches -and that's exactly what he did. remember, Maine lost a 58-55, six-overtime thriller to Therefore, it should come as no surprise maker. "We've been concentrating in 
His spring season was excellent and the Rhode Island last week. This time around, Maine was practice this week on reaction drills."
to anyone that Daane Spielmaker plays in coaches rewarded him by presenting him.the secondary for Notre Dame. He is

tied with Boston University at the end of regulation. As the season continues, Spielmaker with the Most Improved Defensive Player
defensive coordinator Jim Johnson's all­

Four overtimes later, they were overjoyed losers, 48-should see increasing amounts of playing award.
around utility player in the third and final

45. For this inspirational performance, the Black Bears time, for it appears that he will be next This Saturday when the Irish travel to
line ofthe Irish defense.

get this week's Humphrey Bogart "Play it Again, and East Lansing to play Michigan State, Joe
Because Daane's playing time up until

Again, and Again Sam" Award. 'I was used to playing and Johnson will resume his role as starting
last Saturday's Purdue game had been -This week's other award-winner is truly a lucky man. strong safety. However Spielmaker will

limited, his name isn't as popular as Stacey 

Jim Vruggnik, already blessed with a Bottom Ten­being successful (in high still see a lot of action, most likely in the. 
Toran's or Dave Duerson's among Notre 

nickle defense. Dame football fans. Nonetheless, his school). It has been tough In this alignment, where five defensiveworthy name, received the Pied Piper ofEvanston "Like 
Rats from a Sinking Ship" Award. In four years as the natural talent allows him to play all four backs are used to protect against the pass,
Sports Information Director at Northwestern, Vruggnik here at times.' 
secondary positions, and he's usually the Spielmaker's position can be anywhere inhad seen the Kittens lose 31 straight games. Like a psyc­first or second defensive back to enter the the secondary. CoachJohnson prefers him
year's starting free safety, a position whichhic, Vruggnik knew when to make his move. Before this game offthe sidelines. at free safety however, a spot that Daane
will be vacated by senior Dave Duerson af­season, he took a similar job at Purdue. .While the Against Purdue, when Joe Johnson got presently shares with Rod Bone. 
ter this season. The prospect of startingMildcats were winning, the Boilermakers were losing his bell rung for the second time, it was In essence, Spielmaker adds versitility
will be welcomed by Spielmaker, becausetheir seventh straight game. 
Spielmaker who ably filled in for him in the and depth to a position where injuries are
his transition from high school superstar toWay to go, Jim. 
28-14 Irish victory. Although he helped collegiate sub has been tough at times for common. Presently he's waiting patiently
·. 
The standing this week, as mentioned above, are ground the aerial fireworks of Scott 
him. in the shadows ofthe starters. His thoughtsjumbled. There is a nine-way tie at the top, and the Campbell, he was not particularly pleased Spielmake.r twice was an all-state selec· are not about starting right now, they are teams are listed in alphabetical order. One voter, ap­with his performance. 
tion at quarterback and defensive back at only ofMSU this Saturday.
parently out of habit, voted for Northwestern anyway. "I missed an assignment," Spielmaker Central Catholic High School in Grand "I want to beat Michigan State and take You really can't teach an old dog new tricks. says, referring to the fourth-and-18 Rapids, Mich. He also lettered twice in bas­care of the Big 10," he says. "We'd be on a Here's the sad story: Campbell pass that was dropped by a wide­
ketball and three times in baseball. roll and on our way." open Everett Pickens in the end zone in the
1)Ball State (0-3) "I was used to playing and beingsuccess­Daane Spielmaker is on his way, too. It's 
us a

1) Eastern Michigan (0-3) fourth quarter. "And it almost cost ful." he says. "It has been tough here at just a matter of time until he arrives on the 
1) Massachusetts (0-2) TD." times." ND football scene as a bonafide defensive 
1) Memphis State (0-4) Although he blames the blown pass After two seasons ofspot duty on special standout. 
Compared to profootball, golfisn't so bad 
I can't exactly put my finger on it, but there have 
passes over everybody's head, he'll still get paid on the always been a few things about golf that bother me. It's I st and the 15th. not the game itself, although anyone who has had the Suddenly, I began to like golf a whole lot more.
Craig Chvol 

misfortune ofplaying with or behind me might think so. If the NFL players want a percentage of the gross, 
For me, 18 holes on a golf course becomes a wood­great. We'll do it like this: Take all the revenue and put it land trek reminiscent of Lewis and Clark. I have killed in a big kitty. Off the top comes the league operating more rodents than Orkin, and I have perfected the expenses, and a negotiated amount to each team for 
boomerang shot. I can unilaterally promise that there is expenses. The remainder is split up according to agree­a thousand or so times before, and he's got plenty of ment among the owners and players of the 2H teams­
no oil beneath any of the courses in northern Illinois because I have done extensive drilling in every trap. I 
time to pick his club, take a few practice swings, change according to what kind ofseason they had. have more problems with water than Teddy Kennedy. his mind and then take a few more swings. This plan would kill two birds with one stone. The 
But none of this frustration is the root of my dis­But the thought that somebody might sneeze during players would be getting a much bigger slice of the pie. enchantment with golf. To the contrary, my "take-two­his follow-through is absolutely horrifying. Try explain­And, more importantly for the fans, every team would and-hit-to-right" swing only causes me to marvel at ing that to Ron Cey as he stands in to bat against Goose have an incentive to improve. players who don't take divots big enough to bury a rac­Gossage wth the Dodger Stadium crowd howling. Or to Under the status quo, where almost every team sells 
coon. 

Darryl Stingley as he ignores the din in Schaefer Stadium out almost every game, the pitiful teams have no reason A large part of what concerns me must be described and cuts over the middle looking fix a pass from Steve to spend money to get better. They can't put any more as snobbery -golfs reputation as a gentleman's game. Grogan. people in their stands, and all 2H teams share television 
As an aside, I must point out that I am not referring to 
But while reflecting on the sheer idiocy displayed by revenue equally. Midwestern collegiate golf, where the wind chill often both the players and the owners in the NFL players' Certainly, the players would argue that their careers reaches zero, and hitting off frozen fairways makes play strike, I began to look at things a little bit differently. are extremely short and their risk ofinjury is far greater more like hockey than golf. Although I still tlnd it alternately amusing and than goiters. But auto racers split up their prize money But on the pro tour, where temperatures are almost 
disgusting that a professional golfer couldn't drop a in a similar manner. always in the 70s or 80s, and the courses are so well­three-foot putt with somt'body unwrapping a candy bar In some cities, this plan would have little or no effect manicured that you'd think you were playing in Nancy 45 yards away, it suddenly dawned on me. That three­on present conditions. Players on the successful teams Reagan's parlor, I've always looked with disdain on the foot putt is an awful lot more important to the guy would continue to earn good money. Elsewhere, 
trying to drop it than is the third-and-eight pass to the though, things would become drastically different.
"Quiet Please" signs. NFL quarterback trying to complete it.
Here's a guy, who's probably one ofthe best 100 or so It would, after all, take Chicagoans a wn:k or two If the golfer misses that putt, he might go home
in the world at what he does, trying to hit a little white before they got used to the sight of\'ince Evans looking hungrY, his pockets empty. If the quarterback sails I 5 t<>r his dinner in a garbage can.
ball that's sitting perfectly still. He's made this same shot 




