
, , ,Halloween warnings -page 5 

VOL. XVII, NO. 42 the independent -.,tudent llC\\ -,papn '>lT\ ing notre dame and saint ma~ 's WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1982 
InLebanon 
Reagan eyes U.S. force expansion 
WASHINGTON (AP)-President Reagan told Lebanese President Amin Gemayel yesterday that he would give "serious consideration" to expanding the size and role ofthe peacekeeping force in Lebanon. 
A senior U.S. official, who briefed reporters on the two-hour meeting between the two leaders, gave no details about plans for an expanded force, which now includes about 
1,200 U.S. Marines. 
Israel has made it cleat that it does not want U.S. forces in Israeli­dominated southern Lebanon. Still, an expanded force could supervise the withdrawal of Israeli and Syrian troops from Lebanon, which Reagan and Gemayel are said to want by the end of the year. Reagan said, however, "I can't pick a date." 
Reagan also told reporters that progress had been made toward a troop withdrawal, which he called the "immediate problem." He also promised that "we'll do all that we can" to proide assistance for the rebuilding of Lebanon. 
Earlier, with Gemayel standing by, Reagan said, "I reaffirmed the United States support for the sovereignty, unity, territorial integrity, and 
freedom of Lebanon." 
Gemayel said, "we see the U.S. role as the indispensable ingredient to bring peace not only to Lebanon but to the whole region as well. America's friendship and assistance not only in peacekeeping and peacemaking but also in reconstruc­tion and rebuilding our armed forces are vital." 
The two had breakfast together in the White House residence, and then had a private meeting in the Oval Office. Afterward, they had a 50-minute session with advisers in the Cabinet Room. Gemayel, 40, was on his first trip out of Lebanon since he was elected on Sept. 21. 
The official said Reagan the U.N. Security Council to per­
On Monday, Gemayel addresst>d responded by saying '-'we hear you. ~-'-·_ ,._.,..:._·.•.·

..•. sonally relay his government's re­
We appreciate that our troops are so \i!mF quest for a three-month extenion of 
well received, and you believe they the mandate of the 7,000-man l'.N. 
are so important, and that all ofthese matters will have to be given seriouspeacekeeping force in southern Lebanon. The administration is 
consideration." supporting a two-month extension. 
Reagan's primary goal is the removal of the Syrian and Israeli
The administration favors an ex­troops, along with troops from the
panded U.N f:.J,ce at tht: bracli :..,,"' 
der...-..-:,ue Israel wants a refurbished 
Palestine Liberation Organization. Lebanese army to do the job. 
The United States has provided A senior American official, who 
about 5105 million in aid to briefed reporters after the White 
Lebanon since Israel invaded in the House meetings and asked not to be 
first week in June, and the U.S. offi­identified, said Gemayel raised the 
cial said additional financial assis­possibility of an expanded role and 
tance was being considered. size of the multinational force, 
But, he said, the "vast majority of composed ofItalian, French and U.S. 
assistance" will come from sources troops. 
other than the United States. 
Computer checks photo of 'Tylenol' suspect 

CHICAGO (AP) -A photo of a Tylenol murder victim in the store where she bought her tainted medication is being analyzed by computer to determine if a man also seen in the picture is James W. 
Lewis, the "prime suspect" in the poisonings. 
Paula Prince, a .35-year-old airline stewardess, died of cyanide poison­ing within a few hours after the picture was taken by a surveillance camera in a drugstore. Investigators believe Miss Prince bought her Tylenol at about the time the picture was taken Sept. 29. 
Six other people in the Chicago area also died after taking Extra­Strength Tylenol capsules laced with cyanide. 
In the background of the photo is a bearded man bearing some 




New lights brighten ND-SMCroad 
By MIKE MAZZOLI 
StaffReporter 
Saint Mary's and Notre Dame have taken steps· to improve the 
lighting along the streets ofthe two campuses. 
Saint Mary's installed twenty-three new lights, at a cost of ap­
proximately S.36,000, along the road extending from U.S. .31 to the 
circle in front of Holv Cross Hall. Fifteen of the new lights replace 
older fixtures alread;· in ~peration, and the remaining eight have 
been added to previously unlit areas. 
The lights, installed by the Koontz and Wagner Electric Co., Inc., 
arc more efficient and yield the same amount oflight as the existing 
ones, but only consume half the energy, according to Anne Reed, 
director ofpublic relations at Saint Mary's. 
She said the new fixtures will provide better lighting and in­
creased security, and were installed as part of"the normal upgrading 
of the facilities of the campus." 
According to John Moorman, director of maintenance at Notre 
Dame, the light fixtures along Saint Mary's Road from the Grotto to 
U.S. .31 have received new bulbs and thorough cleaning, increasing the illumination there by .35 percent. 
In addition, six new lights, one 250-watt and five 175-watt 
fixtures, will be installed at the intersection in Saint Mary's Road near 
Holy Cross by the end ofthis week. 
The maintenance department also plans to install 18 new light 
fixtures along Lake Road from the Rockne Memorial building to 
Lewis Hall. Moorman said installation will cost approximately 
550,000, and the lights could be present as early as the end offall. 
These efforts, Moorman emphasized, are "part of an ongoing developme!lt ofnew campus lighting systems," and he added that his department is "continually trying to develop superior lighting design systems which will provide for the safety ofall students." 
resemblance to Lewis, who was born Theodore Elmer Wilson. Lewis is a a .3 t 6-year-old fugitive sought on charges of trying to extort Sl mil­lion from Tylenol's maker. 
The man in the picture is looking in Miss Prince's direction. 
A source close to the investiga­tion, who declined to be identified, said the photo could be the case's first real homicide clue -an indica­tion the culprit may have been in­terested in the outcome and the victim. 
See 1YLENOL, page 3 
Atage82 

Rickovercallsforperfection 
By RYAN VER BERKMOES 
Managing Editor 
Mediocrity and irresponsibility came under attack from Hyman Rickover at a lecture in a crowded Library Auditorium last night. 
"You don't go to heaven ifyou die dumb," said the retired Admiral. "Life is an empty hole that must be filled with excellence." 
In his lecture entitled "Man's Purpose in Life," Rickover explained that "we are here to procreate, and to have children which we bring up properly, Parents must encourage their children to read. A house with­out books is like a room without windows." 
"A succesful worker guards against banality, ineptitude, incom­petence, and mediocrity." Rick­over's devotion to this belief was evident throughout his speech and in his exchanges with the audience. 
Rickover believed that people should never rest in their quest for what is right. "Today people are fill­ing their leisure with meaningless distractions to avoid thought. Intel­lect must never stop growing, minds must be skeptical and questioning," he said. 
Rickover's drive for moral and mental perfection made him a legend in Washington politics. At the age of82, Rickover has survived numerous attempts by opponents to oust him from his role as a guiding force ofthe nuclear navy. According to Norman Polmar, author of Rick­
over's biography, the retired Ad­
miral has maintained his power 
through a combination of political 
patronage and peer intimidation. 
In 1949, Rickover was assigned to the Atomic Energy Commission's nuclear propulsion program. He quickly took control of the program and convinced Congress to fund the first nuclear-powered submarine, The Nautilus, which first sailed in 1954. 
Rickover began his lecture by saying, "I have nothing but admira­tion and respect for that great man Father Theodore Hesburgh. The man who knows his purpose in life accepts praise humbly." 
In response to his introduction that detailed his accomplishments, Rickover said, "If I owned up to 10 percent of those, I would be at Jesus Christ's right hand." 

Rickover sternly spoke in favor of the power of the individual. "Each man must act as if the fate of the world depended on him. Young men enter the world hoping to be heard, they often retreat in hopes ofmaking a place for themselves to be heard, but by then they have nothing to say." 
Rickover abused the audience during the question and answer period. He frequently resorted to personal attacks. When asked his opinion on nuclear war, Rickover replied, "Only fools ask more ques­tions then wise men can answer." 
When asked what his advice to 
women was, Rickover snapped, "We 
gave you (women) the franchi~e, 
what more do you want~" The 
predominately male audience ap­
plauded loudly. 
Rickover said the college cur­
riculum should consist of " ...the 
humanities, let students pick up 
their technical skills elsewhere. We 
have many schools where one can 
learn a trade." Interestingly, Rick­
over's talk was sponsored by the 
College ofEngineering. 
Responding to a question on Rick­over's views on a nuclear arms freeze, he said, "I don't have the facts available to me, how c.an you expect me to answer1" 
"To survive in this world we need both truth and decency, characteris­tics I possess," said Rickover. 


j 


News Brief§ 
By 1hc Ohscn•cr and lhc Associalt•tl Press 
A female Notre Dame studentwas assaulted 
early Saturday morning as she returned to the campus after attend­ing a party at the Campus View Apa t rtments. The assailan~ was described as six feet tall, black, and wearing a jeans jacket and Jeans. He reportedly grabbed the woman's arm, hit her and tore her blouse. She escaped the scene when an oncoming car caused him to flee. 
-The Observer 

Sexual activity among adolescents is 
increasing throughout the world, and the result is more and more medically risky and socially expensive pregnancies among teen­agers, an international family-planning authority said yesterday. Across many geographical and cultural boundaries, within and with­out marriage, "these girls are producing babies when they're still babies themselves," said Dr. Pramilla Senanayake, medical director of the International Planned Parenthood Federation in London. "I see pregnant girls as young as 13 or 14. This is a girl who is producing a child with the first or second or third egg she has ever produced," she said in an interview before addressing the lOth World Congress of Gynecology and Obstetrics. Presenting an overview of the problem rather than results of research, she said, "Sexual activity is increasing all over the :world. And with that there is an increase in 
adolescent pregnancy and an increase in sexually transmitted diseases. -AP 
About 15 pelicans have had their upper beaks cut off, possibly with a hacksaw or pliers, and officials say the birds, an en­dangered species, may starve to death unless they're caught and fed. "We don't know who is doing it, but whoever is doing it must be a little off in the upper story," said Curtis Kastner, California Depan­ment of Fish and Game patrol captain for San Diego and Orange counties. "None have died so far. The people have been feeding them and keeping them going." But he warned Monday that the birds can't catch fish themselves without their upper beaks and he asked citizens who are feeding them to call his agency to aid the birds. He said the pelicans have come closer to shore than usual this year, and some have had run-ins with fishermen. "The pelicans are having a hard time getting a food supply this year due to the nonhem anchovy being overfished by Mexico, -so the birds are showing up inland and getting in the fishermen's way and their nets and their lines and so forth," Kastner said. "Thirty years with the depanment, I've never had anything thing· like this happen," he added. -AP 
John Z. De Lorean, producer of the the stylistic De Lorean spons car, was arrested yesterday at a Los Angeles Interna­tional Airport hotel as he arrived to pick up 220 pounds ofcocaine in a S24 million deal he hoped would save his company, the FBI said. De Lorean, 57, and two other men-one the owner of an aviation company -were charged with conspiring to distribute cocaine and possession ofcocaine with intent to distribute. FBI special agent in charge of the Los Angeles office, Richard Bretzing, announced the arrests, saying they culminated a five-month investigation which in­volved numerous federal agencies and the Police Department of Ventura. De Lorean "expressed interest in financing something that would produce quickly large sums ofmoney in return for the invest­ments. . ..His company is in severe financial problems and he feared the possibility of his company being closed down by the (British) government which had extended loans to him," Bretzing said De Lorean, a former vice president of General Motors, four years ago with British government help set up his own auto plant in Belfast, Northern Ireland, to produce the S25,000 sports car with gull-wing doors. The cars are distinguishable by their silvery stain­less steel bodies. -AP 
Actor Robert Redford, who 1oyears ago ponrayed a candidate for the U.S. Senate who struggled to stay true to his prin­ciples, stepped into real-life politics yesterday on behalfofDemocrat Phil Sharp. "I don't know Phil Sharp personally. We're not old ac­quaintances. There's no cronyism or anything like that," he said. "But from the point of view ofsomeone who is intensely interested in the political system, I think Phil Sharp is just exceptional." Dressed in a khaki suit and tan cowboy boots, Redford gazed calmly through his aviator glases and the crowd -mostly women -before him at the St. Francis Newman Center. "His voting record is really excellent," Redford said. "It covers a spectrum that covers all ofus." Redford an environmental activist and the founder of the Resource Manage:Uent Institute, mentioned Sharp's support for the_ Voting Rights Act and funding for NASA research. "There are a ~ult~tude ~~ bills that he has voted on to show that he's aware ofthe b•g p•cture, he said -AP 
Showers ending early today turning colder and 
breezy. High in the low 50s. Cloudy at night with 30 percent chance of showers. Cold with lows in the mid 30s. Chance of showers tomorrow with highs in the upper 40s to low 50s. -AP 
Remember the wristwatch ad a while back in which a 
loving husband presents to his faithful wife a birthday 
gift, only for her to say "Thank you, dear ...but I was 
hoping for a Longines?" 
Callous, you say. Heartless and thankless, too. No 
question there. But we say these things under the as­
sumption that the watch he did give her was of some 
quality -that it was the best present he could possibly 
give. And we resent her for not appreciating his effort. 
So, too, must the Administration resent the lackluster reception ofthe new Faculty Office Building by the Arts and Letters faculty. 
After all, are the faculty not grateful for being rescued from their 20 year sentence in the abysmal chambers of the Memorial Library? Are they not happy with the in­dividual windows, the individual thermostats, the Ox­ford/Cambridge commons room ...? 
Of course they are grateful, but the disappointment coming from more than a few faculty members is not that the office building is so bad, but that the University had the opportunity to do something truly innovative and chose not to. The belief is the building does not represent the best that Notre Dame could offer. 
In other words, the Administration gave the faculty a wind-up Timex when it could have provided at least an electric Bulova. 
Administrators im­mediately point to finances. Father Joyce said last week, "We had a limited budget on the Faculty Office Building. If we had the money, we could make it a spectacular building." Yet, the faculty was not asking for the spec­tacular, only the innovative. 
The problem with the four-story building con­cerns the actual design: it's an office building. / 
Notre Dame is not a cor­poration. Faculty and stu­dents do not function as do employees of IBM or Exxon. They need places to casually discuss problems and questions; such places are not rows of small 10' x 12' offices. 
Who were the consultants? Who were the architects, you ask? 
The consultants were three members ofa committee appointed by A&L Acting Dean Burns, but Burns says the committee only received 20 written suggestions. Yet, this committee never did actively pursue com­ments. To be fair, it would have been hard for three busy professors to gather 250 opinions anyway. It is no wonder that Burns says there was little controversy over the building; it seems that there was little effort to generate any. 
The architects for the Faculty Office Building were Ellerbe Associates, Inc., of Bloomington, Minn. Now Ellerbe is a well respected firm, but I do not think they can be attuned to the campus with their Bloomington location. 
So what we have is an out-of-state firm designing our buildings, under the direction ofND officials Hesburgh, 


The Observer I 
I 

I /Jesign Editor........................... Kay Holland II 
/Jesign As.<islunt ............................ Alan Hell LUJ'OUI.\"Iciff ..........•..•.......... Hamid \loslehi 7)•JH!seller ........................................ AI '-10\·as .\"eu•s Etlilor .................................. Vic Sciulli 
Copy Etlitor............................ GreR Swkn:z 
.\"/)/Jay Edilor .......................... Dave Grote SMC /Jt~l' Etlilor...................•. (;reg Swiercz Features Layout....................joe \1usimt'ci Sports Copy Edi/or.............Skip Desjardin T_J•pisl ....................................... \lary Torchia At/ Design....................................... Paul Slota Pbolographer................................ Ed Carrol Guesl Appearances.......... Ryan & Oddjoh The Urtle Fos· That Could Prout! Papa Tony Hut ~o Snookums 
This is only a part-timt" joh! 
The Observer •USPS '>98 ~!20• •·­

P'-'bhshed Monday thrt•ua~ Fr1'1dy <l''d 
.:•n .,,yne fqutbetl! Satw·1d¥0:. Pxccp' 
t1unng ex~·n ttnd Vrl( d1ll'" pPrl "1s The 
Observer" publtshP.<1 b,-• .,,. studen·~ 
ol !\lotre Da·ne .-ln<i Sil•'" '.~.-1rv s Ct•! 
lege Subs! npt>uns ·nav br· PUll hdSl'd 
wrt!lng The Observer P 0 B,,, U 
!llotre Da•ne lndta••a 46556 
The Observer tS a "'1P"'1bt>r .•' The Associated Press All rcpr. •dU< '""' nghls are reserved Second class PllStdQt1 Pdt:1 c1~ I\Jt.1'''' Oa-Tie ln,1t<l"d 46SS6 
Joyce, and O'Meara, who, though capable of running a 
modern university, have no architectural design ex­
perience between them. 
The need for an on-campus advisory group, 
therefore, seems essential. And the obvious source for 
such a group would be the under-utilized architecture 
department. 

NO officials seem to believe that architecture profes­
sors are too busy teaching to become involved in major 
projects on campus. 
But professors in the department argue that only by getting involved in building projects can they continue their own education. "English professors have to read, and likewise architecture professors have to design," says Esmee Bellalta. 
Another notion that 
professors in the depart­
ment would like to dispel is 
that economics are ir­
relevant to them. They un­
derstand budgets, but 
Donald Sporleder says the 
goal is still to build a castle 
for the client, be it ofgold or 
tin. 
Sporleder should know 
about budgets. He and 
professor B.J. Crumlish won 
a competition to design a 57 
million addition to the Ball 
State College of Ar­
chitecture and Planning, an 
addition which Greg 
Weaver ofthe Ball State Dai­
ly News says was "quite well 

received." Sporleder also notes that the project was completed 8 percent under budget. 
The important point to realize here is that the Ar­chitecture Department would enjoy being a part ofany kind ofadvisory group. This informed group, given the trust and backing of the Administration, could be charged not only with maintaining continuity on campus, but also with providing the best innovative cost-conscious designs for Notre Dame. 
The possibilities for a better environment are not over. The next building to be constructed will likely be a new A&L classroom building, and with it come fresh opportunities for a more open atmosphere. 
The decision as to whether the architecture depart­ment will be consulted is up to the Administration. I only hope that they realize that the department can fill a void that neither they nor Ellerbe have done in the recent past. 
After all, we're not asking for a Longines. 

The Observer Wednesday, October 20, 1982 -page 3 
Business , education 

Norburn urges better strategies 
By TONY AIELLO 
Business Mcmagt>r 
Business and education must louJ.. to changes in the pn:~ent economy to implement fi.uun.: ohjectives .111d strategic~. according ro David :\or­burn, Schurz Pmk~~vr of ~\anage­ment at Notre I >an' e. 
Norburn was inaugurated into the 

Franklin D Schurz (:hair of Manage­
ment yesterdaY aftc:rnoon at the 
Center for Conllnuing Education. 
;\lorhurn ~trc,scd the Importance 

of accepting change m the husiness 
and academic worlds. lie said a 
refusal to accept realitv will cause a 
continuing · ,Jownward spiral" 
toward a depre~sion. 
"The level of ~ocial entitlement 
must he c·arncd bv the ~r~-: ...... uve 
actjvitv of th•· ~....umlanuring and 
service sector. :\ m1smatch creates 
stagflation in the medium-term and 
exacerbates economic and social 
malaise," said Norburn. 
He noted a parallel between the 
United Siates and Britain in that. just 
as Britain had relied heavily upon 
the pound sterling, America began 
to rely on the dollar. The Marshall 
Plan of the 19';0's boosted both 
European and American recovery, 
according to Norhurn. "but when 
the dollar shortage became a dollar 
glut, resentment was to exist in 
many countries." 
Norburn said "The primacy of the dollar as American currency for in­ternational settlement was chal­lenged and the L'nited States is exporting it~ inflated dollar to Europe." He said the dependence upon the dollar ended in I9"" I, and at this point the recession began to set in. In light of the~e problems, Norburn pointed out that "going about it alone" is extravagance. 
Norburn said it was common policy for corporations to "not ac­cept the reality of inflation in a world of internationl competition," and because of this. the companies 
Americans support 

aidcuts 
By CATHERINE DUFFY 
News Staff 
Most Americans support cuts in 
federal aid to college students, but 
not as severe and widespread as 
reductions set by the Reagan ad­
ministration, as indicated , by a 
recent poll. 
Most of those polled are worried that a college education for their children will not be possible with­out some aid. 
The mail survey, which was con­ducted by Group Attitudes Corp., questioned l, l H8 adults about public attitudes toward higher education. The survey was released by JW. Peltason. president of the American Council on Education. and by University President Father Theodore M. Hesburgh. 
Hesburgh is a memher of the Council. He attended the press con­ference in Washington D.C., at which the poll was released, but did not take an active part. 
According to the poll: 8-! percent of Americans believe a college education should be available to all qualified students; """".4 percent favor continuing some low-interest federal loans to middle-income stu­dents; ""0.6 percent want continued federal grants or low-income stu­dents and 66.--1 percent favor con­tinued federal aid for colleges and universities with large proportions of needy students. ""2. S percent believe America's higher education is "good" or "cxcclknt", 25. l per­cent believe it i.~ "fair" and _>,.6 per­cent think America's colleges arc "poor." 
"real" outlook was distorted and im­
portant decisions delaved. 
As the problem sank in, short term ~olutions were enacted: Short-term Jebt was increased while the fun­ding of national deficit~ caused the dramatic rise in interest rates. and many companies were unable to cover their own interest bills. Dividend payments were main­tained from declining protlt~ and capital investment projects ceased, a situation Norburn called, "rubbing Peter-now in hope of robbing Paul at a later date." 
''Ifwe do not change, ourfailure will be barne by the nextgeneration:' 
He stated these were not short 

term problems and management 
must face two issues ofstrategic sig­
nificance: the redefinition of the 
ba.~ic mission ofthe corporation and 
the legal revamping of allowable 
corporate size. 
Norburn advocated that all "shareholders," major creditors and management work forces should be involved in the shaping of ob­jectives. Historicallv, objectives were set in ter~s of fi~ancial perfor­mance on the funds of these 
"shareholders." Norburn feels that these "stakeholders" should be in­volved in the establishment ofa cor­porate direction. 


"In this community. the decisions at Clark in Buchanan ( :\lichigan) and in the boardroom of Bendix will have a lasting impact. Since the im­plicit assets ofthe community are in­volved. the usc of resources of the whole community should be con­sidered. What is good for South 
Rend is good for the Hoosier State. What is good for Indiana is good for America. But the imput must he good and competitive. 
On the academic institutions, Norhurn said we arc in danger of dulling our intellectual curiosity and our ability to think laterally. 
"If we do not change, our failure will be borne hy the next genera­tion. The privilege of teaching at a L'niversi.(.\; should he counter­balanced by our own accoun­tability."' he said. 
"In 196_>, with the closing of the Studebaker, Franklin D. Schurz showed that through the tenacity, determination and considerable faith, potential disaster could be averted. On this day, let us demonstrate those same qualities," Norburn said. 
Norburn is a recognized authority of British business policy. He directed the Master's and Continu­ing Executive Programs of the Lon­don Business School and ha.s served as an adjunct professor of manage­ment in Notre Dame's London 
M.B.A. program. 
• • .Tylenol 
A sun•eil/ance camera photograph shou•s a man, arrow, who is possib~J' Theodore Wilson, a "p1·ime suspect" in se1•e11 C_J'tmide poisonings. u•atching a u•oman buying the bottle ofExtra-Strength Trlenol that later killed he1·, a Chicago telel'ision station reported. /IIondt~J'-According to IrBB,H-TV, the Sept. 29 photo shows Paula Prince, m1 airline attendant. at a Chicago drugstore counler, ar­rou·. where authm·ities st~)' she purchased the fatal capsule and died soon after. Wilson is also knou•n asjames Leu•is and Robert Ricbardson. (AP Pboto) 
FOB FALL BREAK AVAILABLE STARTING FROM $129 
These Economy Fares are 
Tourina Rates, subjecllo 
chan&e wilhoul notice 
and non-discountable. 
There are no minimum 
day and advance 
reservation 
requi~!!!ents, but 
restrictions on when 
and where cars musl 
be returned. Gas is not 
included. Call Hertz 
for details. 
co11tinuedfrom page 1 

Police Superintendent Richard ). Brzeczek said investigators feel sure the woman is Miss Prince, but said the identification of the man is "very tentative." 
Several acquaintances of the fugitive looked at reproductions of the photograph yesterday and said the man in the picture doesn't ap­pear to be Lewis. 
In Missouri. where Lewis had lived for many years, Jackson County prosecutor Albert A. Riederer said, "My opinion is that it's not him. It just does not look like him." Before becoming prosecutor, Riederer represented Lewis for a year in a murder case. 
Ed Leavitt, owner ofa Chicago ta.x service where Lewis worked for about seven weeks late last winter, said it "didn't look like him at all.'' The man in the photo, ma(.le public on Monday, is "too stocky and the hair isn't the same." 
Lewis's former landlord, Tom Kline, and a Iawver who knew him, Allan 'Levin, al~o said there are aspects ofthe man in the picture that don't match their recollection of Lewis. 
However, Bob Haley, owner of a tax service in· Kansa.o; City where Lewis worked. said it "sort of does resemble him. At a distance, the eyes, the general contour ofhis face, sort ofeverything." 
Officials say they have other photos that provide a clearer image of the man in the published photo. All of the pictures were sent to the FBI laboratory in Washington for computer enhancement. 
In addition to the photo analysis from the FBI, investigators are await­ing the results of laboratory work comparing Lewis' fingerprints with partial prints found on a Tylenol bottle and. from evidence found at the Kansas City murder site. 
.r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­The Observer Wednesday, October 20, 1982 -page 4 
---· ----~---­
Within party rooms 


HPC acts on alcohol directive 


By MARY EILEEN KENNEY 
NewsStafi 
The Hall Presidents Council dis­cussed the allocation ofhudgets and Dean Roemer's request for sugges­tions regarding the prevention of al­cohol abuse last night in Lewis Hall. 
The budget committee published a listing of the amount of matching funds allocated to each dorm for hall improvements. The tlve-member committee judged the budgets "according to need, degree of com­
pleteness in itemization, and 
amount requested relative to other 
budgets." 
The five-member budget commit­
tee has not yet established a means 
by which to insure each hall's 
proper and intended use of the 
funds. 
Lewis Hall President Maureen · 

Byrnes disributed a newsletter to the council memhers that outlined the procedure for securing dining hall facilities for hall dinners. This move was to inform the hall presi­dents on how to plan a dinner, one reason Byrnes said is why hall din­ners are not frequently held. 
The presidents of the women's halls spoke with their rectoresses about allowing the men's halls to use their party room facilities. The rec­toresses generally agreed it would be feasible for the men's dorms to use the party rooms as long as they followed the respective dorm's party rules. 
Among the men's dorms. there was a nine to five decision support­ing the yearly rotation ofthe laundry schedule. There have been many complaints from the men's halls whose laundry is washed over the weekend. The director of St. Mic­
hael's laundry requested such a voting procedure in hopes offurther improving the present laundry service. 
In other business, the hall presi­dents council discus~ed ideas on how to answer Dean Roemer's re­quest for suggestions on preventing alcohol abuse. Roemer proposed to implement a directive that would eliminate the use of grain alcohol and drinking games throughout the halls. Under the plan, resident assis­tants would be responsible for enforcing the directive. 
The presidents agreed it would be impossible to enforce the directive "behind closed doors." Most of the presidents favored Roemer's proposals within the confines of the party rooms. The council will send the suggestion to Dean Roemer, be­cause they agree the economic and personal costs of alcohol-related incidents this year have been too high. 

For September 
Personal income and spending rises 
Fourth-year architect students Dan Rectenwald and Randy Shandel model a design for a project in Chicago. (Photo by Ed Carroll) 
Ira Progoff Intensive Journal Workshop® November 6 and 7 
Process Meditation Workshop December 4 and 5 
Indiana University at South Bend 237-4261 

Where is the Lord leading you? ••.a chance to explore religious life as 
47-J~rE 

a sister of the Holy Cross ... 
Nov. S-6 7pm Friday· 7pm Saturday Mary's Solitude St. Mary's Campus it's FREE!!! 
to register cdl SR-PAT McCABE 284-44661284-5629 


CORBY'S 
Wednesdny Night Specinl ffiolson Canadian Gold 

WASHINGTON (AP) 

Americans' personal income rose a 
modest 0.3 percent in September, 
the government reported yesterday. 
But in a more encouraging sign, 
their spending jumped three times 
that fast. 
The I percent September gain in personal consumption spending ­the third healthy increase in a row -was welcomed by hoth govern­ment and private economists. But they disagreed on whether it meant recovery from the recession was at hand. 
There was nothing hut good news 

in a separate Commerce Depart­
ment report that showed housing 
starts ri~ing 14.-l percent in Sept em­
her to an annual rate of 1.146 mil­
lion. 
Economists said falling interest rates had led to recent improvement in the beleaguered housing industry that wa~ likely to continue. 
"As a result, growth in homebuild­ing appears likely to assume its cus­tomaq leading roll' in the economic reco\Try." said Commerce l"nder­secretaq J{ohert Dederick. 
At the White House, President Reagan's signing of a National Housing Week proclamation coincided with the release of the housing report. "These are the days of new hope for housing. hope for millions of families that dream of owning homes and hope for millions who make their livelihoods from building them,"' he said. 
The bad news in the Commerce Department's September income report was that U.S. workers' total wages and salaries declined ahout 5400 million helow August's level, led hy a S3.2 hillion drop in manufacturing payrolls. 
Rising unemployment -to I 0.1 percent ofthe lahor force, according to an earlier report -was one hig reason for the decline, the new report said. "The payroll declines were mostly in the durable goods in­dustries," including producers of motor vehicles, machinery and me­tals, it said. 
Outweighing the wage declines were a S2.8 billion increase in government transfer payments, which include unemployment benefits, and a 52.7 billion increase in interest and dividend income. 
In all, the report said, total per­sonal income rose to an annual rate of S2.6 trillion in September while 
personal consumption spending rose to a rate of S2.0l trillion. Dis­posable income (after-tax) rose 0.3 percent to a rate of 52.21 trillion. 

Schmucker recievesfine andprobation in draft case 
CLEVELAND (AP) .VIark Schmucker, a :\1ennonite student who refused to register for the draft due to his religious beliefs. was fined 5--t.OOO yesterday and sentenced to work for two years at a home for mentally rt:tarded adults. 
A federal judge sentenced Schmucker. a senior hiology major at (~oshcn College. to three years probation. She also stipulated that Schmucker. 22. of Alliance, must work the tlrst two years ofhis proba­tion at the Emmaus House, a residen­tial ·hospital for severely retarded adults in Marthasville, :\to. He will not be allowed to leave the home without permission ofauthorities. 
"I was pleasantly surprised hy the 

sentence," Schmucker said. "It will 
give me a chance to serve as I 
wanted to. I'm glad I'll be able to 
help somehody." 
U.S. DistrictJudge Ann Aldrich did not order Schmucker to register for the draft, saying it "would insult what this court believes is an honest religious conviction on your part." 
Schmucker was the third man in the country convicted of not registering for the draft and sen­tenced under the Youth Correction Act. which allows the conviction to he expunged at the end of his proba­tion. 
Two others convicted, Benjamin Sasway and Enten Eller. were sen­tenced to 2 years in prison and probation, respecti\·ely. Eller also wa.., ordered to register within 90 days of his August conviction. 
~chmucker testified that he did not register hecause ofhb heliefthat Jesus Christ was a pacifist, and that registering would he a step in help­ing the militaq· prepare lor war. 
"The court appreciates that at this point in time. you may consider a federal felony conviction as some kind of badge of honor. However. you are very young," Judge Aldrich told Schmucker during sentencing. 
She said the sentence -specifi­cally the fine -was calculated to make an estimated 500,000 other young men who have not registered for the draft reconsider their posi­tion. 
"This sentence will deter more potential registration resisters than would a maximum five-year jail sen­tence, which might result in a parole within a couple months," Judge Aldrich said. 
Mennonites do not believe in militaq· service. The church calls for its members to register as conscien­tious ohjectors, hut Schmucker drew his line of resistance at registration. 
The government recommended some form of incarceration for Schmucker, but William Petro. the t.'S Attorney for the Northern Dis­trict of Ohio, said the government was satisifed with the sentence. 
"I think that Judge Aldrich acted veq· judiciously and was very creative," he said. "She touched a veq· tine balance hetween sympathy and adherence to the law I applaud her sentence." 
~chmucker said he had expected to receive a jail term. 

"I rrepared for the worst. I think in terms ofthe financial impact. thio, . , Hemcn«c will ·:ell non-rc<gisrr,rntl> to 
-..eitlil<if pot up.?~r ~hut up.:· he l>aid_ 





DUKE 
THE FUQUA SCHOOL 
MBA

OF BUSINESS 
A representative of the FUQUA SCHOOL 
Qt= 13LISINESS OF DUKE UNIVERSITY will be on campus Monday, November 1, to discl•ss the MBA Program. Interested 
students m;:Jy obtain further info by 
co~tacting the Placement Bureau. t \ -~ -~ ~: •-t.J 2 c u i; i .. 

The Observer 
Update and strengthen 
Dean Schmitz sets prioriti~s 
By TOM CONSIDINE obsolete every two to three years. ing at the l'nversity of Illinois in .\"eu•sStaff and rapid advances of semi­1962. lie received a bachelor's de­conductor technology and com­gree in chemical engineering from 
Dean of Engineering Roger puter programming is an ongoing Illinois in 19S9. and obtained his Schmitz, who became the tlrst process, Schmitz said. To keep up Ph.D. from the l'niversity of :\lin­recipient of the :\latthew H. McClos­with the technology, the engineer­ne~ota in 1962. key Deanship during inaugural ing computers must he continual!\· The ,\latthew H. :\tcCioskey Dean­ceremonies last Friday, will con­updated, he said. ship is in memory of one of the tinue to update laboratory and com­Another priority Schmitz dis­nation's largest contractors and real puter equipment as part of his plan cussed was the strengthening of the estate developers. \lcCloskey also to improve the engineering college. graduate-level engineering served as a l'.S. amba.~sador to 
Schmitz outlined priorities for programs. Ireland. engineering in his inaugural lecture He said he would like to attract His s<m. Thomas D. \tcCloskey, "The Faces of Engineering," more top students for graduate president of McCloskey & Co. in delivered in the Center for Continu­work. Philadephia, donated the endow­ing Education Auditorium last week. Schmitz also considered the ment. 
According to Schmitz, the Apple recruitment of first-rate voung The National Engineering Ad­Computer Corporation has agreed faculty an important goal. In recent visory CounciL which also attended to donate to the engineering depart­years, the pool of highly qualified the inauguration ceremonies, will ment at least 50 of the Apple II and young faculty has diminished, he submit a report of suggestions for Apple III computer systems that said. According to the law of supply the college to Hesburgh at a later have are on display at the 1982 and demand, attracting such instruc­date. The EAC annual!\· reviews col­World's Fair in Knoxville, Tenn. tors is getting harder, he said. lege engineering programs and of­
Computer equipment becomes Schmitz hegan teaching engineer-fers advice for improvement. 
Wednesday, October 20, 1982-page 5 

Due to deaths 
Halloween frightens more this year 
CHICAGO ( AP) -The Tylenol murders prompted one community to ban trick-or-treating this Hal­loween out of fear of "copvcat" poisonings and police in many cities are taking extra precautions, h_ut most say you can't outlaw a tradi­tion. 
"I would not allow my children to take candv this particular Hal­loween," Chicago MayorJane Byrne said yesterday. Other authorities concurred, and in many places, police planned to step up patrols or increa.~e inspections of Halloween plunder. 
Halloween often is dangerous. A Louisiana man last year shot and killed a I3-year-old youth who showed up at his door wearing an Army costume and carrying a toy submachine gun. Police in Muncie, Ind., found some lick-on stickers picturing Mickey Mouse and Donald Duck that had been laced with L'iD. 
capsules ~piked with C\·anide 
prompted warnings that this year 
could be wor~e. 
"Bad things come out at llal­loween," said Illinois Attornev General Tyrone Fahner. who heads the task force investigating the poisonings. "This year has particular problems." 
Since the cyanide deaths. products such as mouthwash and eyedrops have been found laced with acid or poison in isolated cases in several states, including Califor­nia, Florida, Ohio and Colorado. 
Fahner said many "very con­cerned" people have called the Tylenol hotline, worried about copycat poisoners. He is writing ing to PTA groups and churches in the state suggesting they organize Hal­loween parties in churches or neigh­borhoods to "control what's given to kids." 
Mrs. Byrne said more than I mil­
Halloween night and to examine 
careful!\· ever\'thing children eat. 
"If.> a cardinal sin for my kids to eat am·thing bef(>re I inspect it:· added Diane Peets. president of the :1-teadows School PTA in Valencia 
"We don't want to cancel trick-or­treating because of the flakes out there," said Pittsburgh Police Sgt. Heman :1-litchell, supervisor ofcom­munit\· relations. "but we're going to be watching closely this Hal­loween." 
Pittsburgh police are expanding a Halloween candy check program that has been in effect for three years. Youngsters are urged to take suspicious candy to their neighbor­hood precinct station where police and health department officials can inspect it. 
In Cheyenne, Wyo., Memorial Hospital of Laramie County ha.~ an­nounced free X-ray service for bags of candy children collect. A spokes­
/Jr. janet Smith. Professor in tbe Program of liberal Studies, spoke fast et•ening in /be /.a Fortune I.ittfe Theater on the subject of {Jm·life. (Photo fJ)' Ed Can'0/1J 
~teland Ptogram St. Pattick's College ffiAYNOOTH, IRELAND 
Important and r~quit~d meeting for all interested Ca11oll Hall ffiadeleva Building St. mory's College Thursday, October21, 1982----6:30p.m 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Four states that are among the hardest hit by the :-ecession will no longer be able to provide extra unemploy­ment compensation benefits. 
Government figures released Monday show that those states are among nine that failed to qualify for continuing participation in the joint federal-state program that furnishes 13 weeks of unemployment com­pensation checks bevond the ba.o;ic 26 weeks for eligible .recipients. 
Among the states scheduled to lose the extended benefits program on Oct. 23 is California, where Sep­tember unemployment was 1 O.I percent -the same as the overall national rate ofjoblessness. 
roster ofstates eligible to participate in the extended benefits program. 
Under a S2.2 billion emergency 
supplemental unemployment com­
pensation program authorized by 
Congress in August, she said, all 
states, the District of Columbia, 
Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands 
will be able to pay between six and 
I 0 weeks of additional benetits, 
regardless of whether they met the 
trigger level to qualify for the 13­
week extended benefits program. 
The full I0 weeks of extra un­employment compensation payments will be made by all those states that fell from the qualifying extended benefits list on Monday. 
Among the states qualifying for continued paymf'nt ofthe extra job­less benefits were four -Ohio, Oregon, .\tichigan and West Virginia 
-where unemployment ha.~ been at double-digit levels for months. 
The other I 0 states qualifying for 

non-stop payment of these addition­
al benefits were: Arkansa.~. Idaho, Il­
linois, Kansa.~. Mississippi, New 
Mexico, Pennsylvania, South 
Carolina. Wa.~hington and Wiscon­
sin. 
The ke~· to a state's eligibility to pay the I_~ weeks of additional benetits is the percentage ofits labor force already drawing unemploy­ment compensation checks. 
" " . ' t \ I ' ....,\ \ ~" ( • I ' I 
, . \ I \ t. \ ....__ • _ •,_ \_ 1 I 1. k'· ,L 

P[QVOQMING.AQT& 0£Ql[0 
O'Laughlin Audl!onum, 8:00pm 
Join Us For An Exciting Series 



Fchruary 24 Prague Chamber Orchestra 
Boris Krajny, pianist 
Arril i; 

The Dances Of 
Isadora Duncan 
...~.... CIUalaa-KricUlal 
Other states with double-digit 
joblessness which no longer can 
make the I3·week extended benefit 
payments are: Arizona, I 0.9; 
Louisiana, Il.O; and Rhode Island, 
I0.4. 
The remaining five states listed bv 
the Employment and Training Ad­
ministration were Alaska, 8.8 per­
cent; Montana, 8.--t; Nevada, 9.8; 
North Carolina, 9.8 and l'tah, :.S. 
Officials estimated today that some 13S.OOO unempl<>,·ed people in the nine states are dra,, ing rhe ex­tra I-~ weeks of benefits and will be affected by the curtailment. 
Agency spokeswoman Abbie Mar­tin noted. however, that benefits will not he confined to 26 weeks in 
those nine states that fell from the 

Pittsbur4h Club 
sign-u{ts :o~· round trip bus to Pgh for Pin-•D gam•' Eve:"yone Invited 
Thurs. Oct. 21, 1982 Lal'ortune Little !'heatre 
.,,.. 

Tent=-t;ve KchedulA• llu.~ wilJ leav~ hi.•ov. S, at 4-pm 'Bliiii wi!! !'etur.:r: Sun. Kov. 7 at lpm B.ound Tri:o Fa..e is S4S. Pa~m~nt must be paid 
in FULL at time of tht reservation -no refund.~ -First comell'irs't s~rved Must be at the meeting to si'n up. •~ :l'lceptlons 
•ott: If there are not enough people at sign-up no bus will run call Brian at 1741 
But the deaths of seven people in lion flyers will go to schools, man said it would detect solid the Chicago area two weeks ago af­libraries and churches, urging hazards such as pins or razor blades. ter they took Extra-Strength Tylenol parents to accompany children on but not drugs. 
135, 000 affected 




Four states lose extendedbenefits 
To mdcr ticket' h: .rruil. pkase senJ a sramped, sc:lf-ad­drcs_sed envelope vmh ~'our order..Mail •lrdcrs for singlt: J:>tTI~~rm.m\c uckets v:,IJ be accr.:pttd up ~o one week prior to rtl(" rcrtorm;iOLC. Ttkphone reservatiOns ~rc welcomc­anJ tan lx-made any time during office hour~ h\' calling (219) 2S.i--11)26 
Single Performance General Admission. _____ ._ .. __ •.._..•____ .$4.00 Area Students/Senior Gtizens .. _... _.•....·.-_•..•••..._•. _...$2.00 Season Subscription General Admission. __ .__ ..__ ••_..._•.__ .$10.00 Ami Studmts!Senior Gtittns.• __ ..___ ... _. _....-----·--·-·•.16.00 
~arnC-----···----·--·--·-------·-----------------------------­~css---·~---·--·--·-·-----··-·····--·-·····-·----·-----··-­
CJty-------·--··---·--·-·--·-·-·----·--· Stttc..•.•.•...2Jp..•.. I would like. ____ .._. _______ . __________ .•G.A Subscriptions at $10 
I would like... _____ .Area Student/Senior Grizens Subscriptions 
:u $6 Co.lCh. 

T<X21 Amount Enclosed S-···--·---· -----·-------·-·-------­PleBe mail ch«k for amount due m: OfticroiSpecial ~
Joz 11,,Sabat MUJ'I eoueae,••'nDaae,:m 'IIII 

---~---------~----­


Editorials 
Wednesday, October 20, 1982 ~ page 6 
I
, 
II r ~ ! ' 
Forgetting Vietnam 
It is strangely fitting that as we draw ever closer to Veteran's Day in November that we are being deluged with a number of news items and articles concerning the open-ended legacy of our SOutheast Asian experiences since 1950_ The first American soldier in al­most two decades has officially defected to North Korea. MASH is going off the air in February, ending 10 years ofweekly visits, not to mention countless syndication reruns, in America's living rooms. Amerasian children from Vietnam have finally been reunited with their former American G.L fathers. 
Robert Lloyd Snyder 
Mid-week 
The controversy surrounding the Vietnam Veteran's Memorial, scheduled to be officially dedicated on Veteran's Day, apparently has been resolved to the satisfaction of all con­cerned parties. A group of South Bend veterans has urged resistance by draft-eligible males to the regiStration process, justifying 
their  civil  disobedience  stance  on  the  
seemingly  disadvantaged  position  in  civil  
rights matters accorded to veterans.  

This would seem an auspicious time to analyze a widely-discussed, but poorly­examined era in the consciousness of this country--the American experience in Viet­nam. 
We have seen a dozen movies ranging from "The Green Berets" to "The Deer Hunter" examining and dissecting the after-effects of Vietnam. There have been numerous documentaries on all major television net­works which have been offered to the American public as chronicles ofour involve­ments in Vietnam's affairs. 
The Vietnam years will inevitably remain on the national agenda for years to come, so long as there remain over 2,500 Americans of­long as the Vietnamese continue repatriating the remains of American soldiers back to the United States. 
Yet, I would argue that as a nation, the 
United States has failed to adequately reflect 
on its involvement in Southeast Asia. As a 
result, this country cannot definitively 
achieve a national consensus on the basic facts 
and American goals of the Vietnam era, much 
less a coherent statement concerning the les­
sons of the hindsight-colored aftermath of the 
"police action" we undertook there. 
We all too easily dismiss Vietnam as a "tragic but well-intentioned blunder" com­mitted by a handful of politicians possessing an inordinate tear of international com­munism. I have heard many would-be militants discount mistakes made in the Viet­nam period as meaningless, as we lost a war "we really didn't try to win." Pacifists point to Vietnam as proof positive that the United States should not involve itself in the affairs of other nations, no matter what the cir­cumstance. 
I am still terribly confused on the matter of 
Vietnam. I am positive that there are lessons to 
be learned there that should have great in­
fluence in the current and future foreign 
policy of this country, but I am also unable to 
ascertain exactly what they should be, and 
how we should apply them. 
How should the effects of Vietnam apply to Lebanon, El Salvador, Angola and South Korea? What should be the stance taken by this country on our involvement in that con­flict? How should this stance apply to our posi­tion on involvement by our allies in the foreign affairs of other countries? Perhaps most importantly, can we apply any of the na­tional experiences of Vietnam to the current situation in the Middle East? 
I believe that our national befuddlement over the Vietnam years has greatly con­tributed to mistakes in our foreign policy and our ill-defined position in world leadership 
grown seemingly more reactionary to in­itiatives by Presidents in foreign policy since the repeal of the Gulf of Tonkin resolution, and the public opinion of the American poplace is deeply ingrained with the memory ofour national tragedy in Vietnam. 
The United States is currently caught in a 
shifting of the world political structure, and 
our inability to choose either a more interven­
tionist or moditied isolationist foreign policy can be indirectly tied to our befuddlement over the lessons ofVietnam. 
Perhaps the time has come for the United States to draw upon the great national and moral courage ofthis country and resolve the outstanding issues we left behind in Southeast Asia. Perhaps then the United States can truly come to grips with a world sorely needing leadership. Perhaps then will the United States entirely and tinally come home. 
ficially listed as M.l.A.'s since 1973, and so  since the Ford administration. has P.O. Box Q  
ttThanks a lot" DearEditor: University people should praise creativity, not only in scholarly pursuits but also in the ways that generous persons find to help others. In this spirit I want the readers to beco_me aware of an innovative program that, for helping handicapped per­sons, has been spontaneously developed by some selfless individuals. It is well known that we handicapped per­sons do not always exert ourselves to the limits ofour possibilities; with proper train­ing (i.e., rigorous and continued) we could do somewhat more than we pre.~ently can. In this understanding, and even risking malevolent interpretation of their motives, some individuals place their cars in hand­icapped parking slots. This happens everywhere, but especially in front of the Memorial Library, which a feasibility study for this program showed is the single place where most handicapped persons most of· ten go. Their commitment knows no limit: they take turns to make sure that such sims are almost always occupied by their cars. Furthermore, with the purpose ofhelping in a more gradual manner the more serious cases, they block often, but not always, the ramps used by lazy wheelchair users. But those persons are not alone. So as to help in  every possible manner, swimming (an ex­But when one examines the phenomenon ercise which is frequently recommended to offood fights more closely, he finds that they handicapped persons because for a tew it is really aren't all that harmless or the only one that can be done) is being humorous, for that matter. On Monday night complemented by a healthy program of at South Dining Hall, a group of individuals forced terrestrial displacement: no parking participated in a traditional "Viking Night," lots assigned at Rockne Memorial and the in­in which everyone involved attempts to dication to park "West of ROTC." show that he can be the most barbaric eater Now, with snow and ice coming, this since Hagar the Horrible. Humorous? To program will bear all its fruits. It may cost many, yes, but let's take a closer look to see some accidents and broken bones, and some why ti)od fights are wrong and why the in­rapacious lawyers may even rejoice in dividuals involved in this particular instance antcjpation, but why should such details have been sent to Dean Roemer for discipli­matter if the overall result will be a much nary measures. tougher handicapped community' As a First, food tights are dangerous. One thing relatively mildly handicapped person, I am l<:ads to another, and before you know it, a sure I represent everyone concerned ­par­person's safety is in danger. Believe me, as a ticularly those suffering the more severe student manager at South, I've seen it all. limitations ­by expressing our gratitude to Anything from dinner rolls to knives, forks, all that contribute to this program, as well as and glasses have been used as missiles. Time to the passivity with which the Security and time again. I've see people slip and fall Office so effectively cooperates with it. over food that's ended up on the floor. While Guillermo O'Donnell, I realize that no one actually intends to hurt Professor somebody, that does not diminish the fact that injury is a very real possibility. Second, the people most disadvantagedFood abuse by such activities are usually the workers. There is this ill-conceived notion here that DearEditor: by making an enormous mess of the food "Food Fight!!" With those memorable that was served, or simply by heaving it words in the movie Animal House, John away, an individual can get back at some evil Belushi popularized a practice that has come bureaucracy that he's conjured up in his to be associated with college kids engaging head. However, the person who ends up in "good, clean, harmless fun." cleaning the messy tray or sweeping the  floor is usuall:y a student worker ­the same person who, along with the entire Food Service staff, is sincerely trying to serve the students as best he can. These workers are under the same pressures as you are -to add to their daily frustrations is, at best, in­considerate. /Finally, and most importantly, such blatant disregard for food is simply immoral. At an institution where values such as concern for the hungry are espoused so highly, this be­havior is absolutely inexcusable. While we may tend to pass these activities off as "traditional" or "just letting oft· steam," out­siders are left open-mouthed and amazed at our evident absence of gratitude for all that we have. I invite anyone who takes what I write lightly to stand along the conveyor belt and watch the enormous amounts of food that end up as pig fodder -you'll be left open-mouthed, also. In conclusion, I do not believe that anyone intentionally abuses food with the above consequences mind. Usually, it is a thoughtless reaction or a faceless participa­tion in a group phenomenon. From now on, I hope that the next time you're tempted to wreak havoc with the food or to launch a projectile, you'll just take a momenc to con­sider these consequences. It would be great­ly apreciated. Tim McLean, Student Manager, South Dining Hall  


Editorial Board 
J f,,. 0/Jial'l'r '' an rndcpcndcnt ncw'J'.lf'er puhl"ht·,1 by rhc ,tudcnt, ot the 
Editor-in-Chief........... ......._.Michael Monk 
l'rll\l'l'lty of Notre n.une du l.tl .trhl S.unt 1\l.lfy·, ( ollcgc. It does 1'01 fll\l'".trrly 
Managing Editor ... Ryan Yer Berkmoes 
rdlt\t tire pol~tu·, of the .!drnrnr,tr.ltror• t>l t·rther tn'itrlutrun. The IlL""''' ,, report 
SMC Execulit•e Editor... ..Margaret Fosmoe 
c,[ ~' .llturJtdy Jnd ,1\ uhJL'-tlltl} .1, J'O"rblt-. hlrlOrt.!l-; rtpre-;ent the oprr~wn of 
Sports Editor ....... ....................Chris '\eedles 
.1 rn.qorrty of the Ldrturr.d llo.~r,[ ( t>olllllc!l!.lftt''· UJ'inrons ,lfl,l lct1crs .lrt' the \'lew' 
Editorials Editor ... ........................Paul .'vlcGinn 

Department Managers 
Business Manager ......  Tu111 .\telh  
Controller .....  ..... Em: ~dull  
Advertising Manager..  ...........Chri' <>wc1  
Production Manager...  .. \1aur;r \lurph•  
Circulation Manager ..  ..... Ka1  lnglu  


nf thc1r Juthor-;. ( ulrHlHl SJ'.l•<' 1' JIJd.rhlc to .dl mernhn., ol the .ommunJty. JnJ 
Features Editor ......Tari Brown 5:ystems Manager .... . ... Bruce Oakle• the free exprc,srun of v.1rylllg opll1rons on u.mpu>. through letter>, I> en~ouHgeJ Phot(J Ftftlor ........ Rachel Blount 
Founded November 3, 1966
I'.O.HoxQ. Notre: l>amt·. IN ·t(,';';(, (.! 19) .!59-S505 

-·····························~················································· 
~~S tt0 W C ~~iiiSiiiiiEiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiWeiidniiesiidaiiy,Oiiciitobiieriii20ii,liii98iiii2iiipiiiagiiie7 
Teaming with loyalty 
T ast week, while peacefully resting on the Observer kouch, my eardrums were graced w1th strams of the melodic voice of Paul Carey calling the play-by-play for the Milwaukee-California play-off series. The sound of his voice was disruptive in that he wasn't describing a four to three out with second baseman Sweet Lou 
Whitacker scooping the ball out of the infield grass and 
tossing it over to whoever Sparky Anderson had 
platooned at first base that night. He wasn't booming 
Tati Btown 
features 
"going, going, gone" after a Lance Parrish horne run ball. 
What he was calling was a game played by foreigners, 
Milwaukee Brewers and California Angels. 
Detroit Tiger fans, ofwhich I am one, are extremely possessive oftheir announcers as well as their team. I have literally grown up on Ernie Harwell and f>aul Carey play-by-play action and AI Kaline base hits. One could say I was born and bred on Tiger baseball. They are like my second family, so much so that my friends are con­stantly cringing from embarrassment when I refer to the team as "my baby boys." 
As a homegrown fan, I am just as possessive as the next guy, or girl, for that matter, since there arc a lot of female fans. My grandmother on the paternal side was particularly fond ofthe now retired catcher, Bill Freehan. A game didn't pass that she wouldn't ask what "her boy" did. 
Her boy is right. 
Being from Detroit, it has never surprised me that Tiger fans are as possessive as they are. I suppose if I were from Milwaukee or California, I would be just as possessive of the Brewers or the Angels. But Tiger fans are a curiosity. A strange breed, one might say. 
Why? 
How many teams can you think ofoff the top of your head that can consisten_tly, rain or shine, fill a stadium with twenty-five to thirty thousand people through 80 and 90 degree summmers, into the dog-days ofAugust, into the round-up ofSeptember? Okay, so maybe there are a few but let me tack an amendment to my question. How many teams could do that in fourth place, playing .500 ball? 
Not many. 
I have been a fan ofa number ofteams, especially Na­tional League teams, because of the quality of baseball that they play. When the All-Star game is on-TV, I in­variably root for the National League (except when the Tiger representative is playing). NBC Saturday afteroon baseball games are usually broadcast at the same time as Tiger horne games. When Los Angeles or St. Louis is playing on one channel and the Tigers on the other, my 
hometown loyalty invariably wins out. But not by 
much. 
l was around, cheering on the team, buying pennants from stadium vendors, eating Ball Park franks when Detroit won the American League pennant in I968 and went on to beat the St. Louis Cardinals seven games to four, after being down three games to one. I was at the fifth and final game of the I972 American League East divisional playoffs when Detroit beat Boston. 
Okay, so I remained a loyal fan when they were win­ning. So what? 
I listened attentively to the 19-garne losing streak that my babies strung together in I979. l have in the past three years been witness to losing streaks ranging from five to IO games, the last ofwhich saw them fall from first to the middle ofthe pack. 
When John Fetzer sold the stadium to the city for a mere pittance in exchange for repairs, diehard fans dis­regarded the protests ofsports writers and less en­thusiastic followers. They paid their buck or two (or three or four or... ) to sit in plastic seats rather than the traditional green wooden slat ones. Physical changes didn't discourage real fans. 
From the time that I started watching and listening to Tiger games, I have never given up. Neither have several thousand fans. 
Loyalty to a team, through wind and fire, hail and brimstone, is something hard to tin d. I guess I learned it in a town well known for loyalty. Also, I suppose I learned it at a good time, when I was young. 
I don't much care if the Tigers win or lose. I'll be a Tiger fan through thick and thin. If they happen to make the Series in years to come, great. If they happen to oc­cupy the middle ranks or find the cellar a comfortable place to stay, I'll still be there. After all, they are "my baby boys." 


Ttivia quiz 53 
I 
guess I threw a curveball at you last week. Or was that a spitbaiP l know it wasn't easy -that is, if your memory is short, as a couple ofthose acts had hits in the mid-l970s. Here are my one-hit wonders from last week, and the song which gave (has given) them a briefglimpse ofTop­20 success. 1. The Pyramids -"Penetration" .2. Alan O'Day -you surely must remember ''l'ndercover Angel" 
:~. Vicki Sue Robinson -from I976, "Turn the Beat Around" 
Tim Neely 
rock trivia 
"f. King Floyd -"Groove Me" 
5. 
Pigmeat Markham-"Here Comes the Judge" 

6. 
Shorty Long-"Here Comes theJudge" (Numbers 5 and 6 were two dif­


ferent records with the same name in the top 20 at the same time, a feat which occurred for one week in July of 1968 a.ad is unparalleled in chart history.) 
7. Frankie Ford -the unforget­table (')"Sea Cruise" 
H. The Fifth Estate -are you ready' a remake of"Ding! Dong! The Witch is Dead" 
9. Ace-"How Long" I 0. Z.Z. Top -"Tush" There is an old adage that "an 
apple a day keeps the doctor away." Not in the case ofThe Beatles. They formed a record label called Apple, and it gave them innumerable headaches (among other problems). Today Apple is generally regarded as the Beatles' label alone. Yet there were other artists involved with Apple from I968 to I975. ldentifv these acts by the clues I give. ' 
l. The first Apple act (other than the Beatles) to have an international hit was this young female singer dis­covered by Paul McCartney. Her hit song was so popular that she recorded it in five differemlan­guages. When her big hit was num­ber two behind the Beatles' "Hey Jude," it marked the only time I know ofthat the first two releases by a new label w..:re I-2 on the charts. She had another top-20 hit with the John Lennon/ 1\lcCartney­composed "Goodbye," then never quite got that high again. 
2. The only established act (other than, ofcourse, the Fab Four)ever to sign with Apple, they were (and are) well known in a realm of music outside of rock. They did two al· bums ti:>r Apple and then left. 
). He was discovered by Apple's head producer at the time, Peter As­her (of Peter and Gordon fame). He did one album for Apple, now a col­lector's item. That LP was poorly promoted, and his dissatisfaction made him leave Apple for Warner Brothers, taking Asher along with him as his producer -and the rest is history. 
"f. Another act which left Apple for greener pastures, their only Apple release was a version ofjohn Len­non's anthem "Give Peace a Chance" issued in 1969. Four years later, they did the original version of a song made famous by Stories in the 
U.S., and they continue to record today, their last hit coming in I9"'9, with "Every I's a Winner." 
5. A very, very obscure 20-year­old male singer made a record for Apple which EMI, Apple's parent company, refused to release. Apple decided to attempt to release it in­dependently but the record never got out of Britain, and then never past the promo-copy stagt:. It was called "King offuh" (think about it for a moment and you can tlgure out why EM! woudn't touch it). 
6. One of those acts who would have become big iftalent were the sole determinant to success was this singer who was George Harrison's original outside contribution to Apple. He recorded such songs as "Sour Milk Sea" in tht: late 1960s, but despite impressive supporting casts on his l.Ps. they never went anywhere. Finally, he went tht: way of the subject ofquestion 5. off to Warnt:r Brothers. Even then ht: had minimal (ifany) success. 
-.This act was responsible for the last "!5 released on Apple Records which was not recorded by Lennon, :\lcCartney.Harrison, or Ringo Starr. 
H. The only group with Apple (other than, one more time, the Beatles) to achieve international success was a band which had a hit with a \1cCartney-composed song in I9'0 from tht: mo,·ie The .Hagic Christian, and was then actually able to follow it up with three more hits! After problems with Apple, they left in 19'5 ti:>r-where else' 
-Warner Brothers. 
9. To this day very little is known about a man who, in 19'2, had atop­I00 hit with tht: l'FO-inspired "We're On Our Way." He did that, plus an unsuccessful followup single, and then disappeared as quickly as he emerged. 
I 0. Like the man in question 5, he really did not have any success until after leaving Apple. He was with Apple through I969 and I970 and had a couple of minor hits, plus a notable guest appearance on a re-cord by -one more time, with vigor -the Beatles. Only upon joining A&:\1 Records in late I9"' I did he begin having big American hits, like "Outa-Space." 

meaning behind music 
T
exas-born Don Henley. together with Glenn Frey, put together· a backup band for Linda Ronstadt. Sometime during that fatdul tour, they decided to break away and form their own group, the Eagles. 
The group stayed together for H albums, most recently Hotel Ca/ifomia, The Lmlg Run and Eagles Lil'e. They were a part of the California sound, a mellow-rock epitomized byJackson Browne and Ronstadt. 
In I9HI, Frey made a phone call to Henley, and the Eagles were over. 



Ed Kontady 
Henley has always been the group member who wanted to do 
more than just entertain. He always wrote about the conditions 
around him, about the things that bothered him as a person. 
While Frey released an excellent pop-rock album with few 
surprises, Henley has given us an album with meaning behind the 
music. 
Among Henley's topics are the deterioration ofthe work ethic, which Henley's father instilled in him at an early age, illiteracy and its effect on society as a whole, and television news' tendency to air any sort of rumor or innuendo that they can come up with. 
While this is technically a Henley solo album, he had plenty of help from his friends. Danny Kortchmar co-wrote six songs with Henley, arranged one with Henley, and wrote one himself. 
The album was co-produced by Henley, Kortchmar, and Greg Ladanyi. Among the luminaries (and black spots) on the vinyl are Toto group members Steve Lukather, Steve Porcaro, and Jeff Por­caro, ex-Eagles Timothy B. Schmit and Joe Walsh, John David Sout­her, Ben Tench from the Heartbreakers, Garth Hudson who was formerly with The Band, Waddy Watchd, Russ Kunkel, Warren Zevon and George Gruel, Bill Withers, Andrew Gold, Louise (;oft1n and his girlfriend Maren Jensen. 
It's quite a lineup and one must wonder how much input Henley had. The lyrics are pure Henley -this is true. The music has the slick production that one associates with the Eagles, only the harshness of the meaning comes out clearer, without the sugary coating that ac­companies the early Eagles pop hits. 
The tlrst two songs on the album, the title cut and "You Better Hang lip", hoth start with Henley's drumming, pounding out a slow, steady beat. Tht: pace is deceiving, because the songs move well ­the lyrics are more easily heard and the meaning ofthe song is made stronger. The guitar work on the latter bv Kortchmar and l.ukather is 
very good. , "Long Way Home" is a slower song with the trademark Eagles' background vocal style done by Henley and Schmitt, with some nice piano work by Tench. "Nobody's Business" and "Dirty Laundry" hoth deal with Henley's problems with the media. Both have excellent vocals by Henley, and very quick moving, interesting guitar work. The latter features very sharp lyrics, "Can we film the operation'/ls the head dead yet?/You know, the boys in the newsroom got a running bet/Get the widow on the set!/We need dirty laundry." The single, "Johnny Can't Read", features great baritone guitar work by Kortchrnar and a strong keyboard effort by Gold. "Talking To The Moon" also has good keyboard work, especially the syn­thesizer by Hudson and Parcaro. Henley's comment on the nuclear race, "Them and Us" features a sharp guitar and some sharp lyrics. "And ifthings go from bad to worse/We can still kill them ifthey kill us first/If we can't have the ball, there won't be any winner/this time". The last three songs all have Irish influences. "La Eile" (Gaelic for "Another Day") is a one-minute interlude with a tin whistle and harp. It flows into"Lilah" which features a utilean pipe solo. The final song, "The Unclouded Day" is an arrangement by Henley and ,. Kortchmar ofan old Irish song, and ends the album on a rather dis­appointing note. 




~j)()~tS='=(J=~==~=·~~~L=S==============================w=e=d=n=es=d=ay=,o~ct=ob=e=r=2=0,=I=9=82===p=ag=e=s
lh·fbe ()IJSt'JTer and The,lssrKiated Press 
Today is the last dayfor runners to sign up for the The Off-Campus Hockey team will hotd its first NVA six-mile run. For more information, call the NVA office ;It 239-practice, as well as a tryout. immnliat-ely after break. The s.cssion will 5100. -The Obsen1er take place Monday, Nov. I from I 0: I 5 to I I: I 5 p.m. Players should 
bring full equipment. and S3.00 for ice time. All off-campus students are urged to attend. For more information, call :\1ark Curley at 234· '5414. -The Obser11er 
Student hockey tickets may be picked up at the ACC second floor ticket window tomorrow and Friday from 9 a.m. until4 p.m. Additional student tickets which were not purchased via the summer applications will be on sale on a first-come, first served MediatorSam Kagelsaid last night negotiators in the basis. Students wishing to sit together must present their !D's at the National Football League players· strike have entered into serious same time. Each student may present a maximum of four I D's. The discussions of economic issues..\leanwhile, the NFL called off foot­student hockey season ticket price has decreased since the summer hall games for the fifth weekend since the walkout began. "We are sale. The entire 16-game ticket package now costs S 16. A refund will negotiating and mediating all ofthe economic issues in great depth," be issued to those who paid the original price. -The Observer Kagel said. "It is a serious discussion of the respective positions of 
the parties on each of the issues constituting the total economic package." Meanwhile in New York, a league spokesman said "Because of the players strike no National Football League gamesThe ND-SMC Sailing Club will hold its last will be played this weekend, Oct. 24-25. With five weekends ofmeeting before break tonight at 6:30 in the boathouse on St. joe's games not played thus far in the 16-week, 1982 regular season, andLake. The third-place finish in Chicago last week, the Ohio State in view of previous statements that a maximum of two weekends 
regatta to be held over break, T-shirts, membership cards, and other 
games could be made up, at least three weekends ofgames have now
topics will be discussed. -The Obsen1er 
been lost for the season." -Associated Press · 
Captain's meetings will be held today in the NVA 
Novice BoxingTournamentfinals will be hetdoffice. Co-Ree volleyball captains will meet at 4 p.m., and Co-Ree today at 4 p.m. in the Boxing Gym ofthe ACC. -The Observerbasketball captains will meet at 4:30p.m. -The Observer 

AP Top Twenty 

The Top Twenty college football teams 1n The As· sociated Press poll. Wtth hrst-place votes tn paren­theses. th1s season s records and total pOHliS Po1nts based on 20·19-18-17 etc Nolre Dame oponents are 
;ralic1zed 
Washington 138)  6·0-0  1.113  
2  P1ff(17)  5-0·0  1.050  
3  Georg1a (1)  6·0·0  '974  
4  Southern Method1st  6·0-0  925  
5  Nebraska  5·1-0  840  
6  Ark.ansas  5-0-0  791  
7  Alabama  5·1-0  753  
8  Anzona State  7-0-0  740  
9  Penn Slate  5·1-0  717  
10  North Carolina  5-1·0  644  
11  UCLA  5·0·1  559  
12  Southern Cal  4·1-0  508  
13  West Vtrgtnia  5·1·0  458  
14  LSU  4·0·1  335  
15  Notre Dame  4-1-o  272  
16  M1am1 (Fia)  5-2·0  230  
17  Ftonda Stale  5·1·0  194  
18  Clemson  4·1·1  181  
19  Texas  3·1·0  158  
20  Oklahoma  -4-2·0  65  

WOMEN'S FOOTBALL Standings x-1 )Breen-Ph,lllps (6·1) 
2) Pasquenlla West (6-1) 
3) Farley (5·2) y-4) Pasquenlla East (4·3) 5) Lew1s {4-3) 6) Lyons (1·5) 7) Walsh (1·6) 8) Bad1n ( 1·6) 
The Observer wtll accept classtfteds Mon­day through Frtday 10 am to 4 30 om However. classtfteds to appear ,,., the 'lext tssue .,.,ust be received by 3 p.m. the bus1ness day Dnor to tnsert,on A!l class1f•eds "lust be prepatd 
.etther tn person or 'hrough the rnati 


Classifieds 
NOTICES 
Fly1ng F1ngers typ1ng serv1ce .Proofread' mg and ed1t1ng Included 85 cents -a page Margaret or Ann 277-1624 
NEED RIDERS to NYC for break Call 277-0955 
THE MARTIANS ARE COMING! "WAR OF THE WORLDS HALLOWEEN AT 11:00 PM ON 88 9 WSND FM 
SHHHHHH! Don I Tell the old man 
Wanted Offspnng of the Class of 1960 
If you are a student who ts fortunate 
enough to have had (to have? ··oh where 
ts Don Costello when we need htm?) a 
dad 1n the class of 1960. I need your help 
My column for the Class of 1960 m the 
Notre Dame Magaztne IS already fer· nfic, but tt needs a new shot tn the arm. as tl were Your stones about your dad s memones of Notre Dame sent to me wtll help the column Now, makey-up IS okay. too. though most of our class guys are really class guys and dtdn t resort to that sort oflh1ng 
So, when you go home on break. elictt a story or two from the old man, jot tl down and mat/ 11 to me And hey, gtve me a break, I don I need to hear the hot bowling ball' story agatn or how he dressed you tn NO d1-dees And 1! your dad IS one of the ones who owns one of those car horns. leave that out too We don t want to em­barrass htm. Quizztng your mom ts fatr play, however Senously talks. send these great stories to: Bob Keeley: 10532 S. BelL Ch1cago, 1160643 And P S. Don 1 tell him ThiS Will be our little secret. okay? 

LOST/FOUND 
FOUND: Anne Klem' change purse Call 3889 
FOUND: 1981 class nng in Math & Comp Building orange stone call G1na 6553 at 212Lew1S 
LOST: PENTAX 35mm camera 
In Green Field area. Help! Call 1025 
HEPL!!t lost my class nng on Saturday! Black onyx w1th diamond '" the m1ddle. in­Itials HLS83on the inside ... / can'tleave 4 years at N.D. without somelhtng to show tor it!!! Please call3564, or 8055. Reward 
LOST: 
BULL 
Are you animaf molesters planning on 
abuSing Bevo over fall break? 8765. 
LOST:a Seiko digital watch ..sdver .. solar ballery Please call Larry at 1722 AEWARD...AEWAAD .. AEWARD 
LOST: Adidas sweatpants. dark blue with white stnpes. Dropped somewhere be­tween Stepan Center gate and Zahm Hall tate on 10/17 

FOR RENT 
NiCe furniShed house 2 blocks iO N.D. 277-3604 or 288-()955. 
Student Housmg -Clean Safe $100/mo 291-1405 
Furn eff1c1ency $100 Also 1 bedroom apartment $175 Call255-8505 

WANTED 
NEEDED: RIDE or RIDES to PITTS­BURGH!!' call TOM. 1754 or BRIAN. 6105!! (for fall break)·-PITTSBURGH. p1t1sburgh. PITTSBURGH. p111Sburgh.. 
A1de needed to Latayefle. IN or towards Indianapolis for Oct break Call Tom 1396 
Need nde to St. LoUis for Oct break W/share expenss Call Mary 233·4598 
A1de needed to Cleveland for break· Will share expenses Call Joe at3625 
Help South Bend Juliet wants to see her 
Milwaukee Romeo If you could gtve me a 
nde to Mtlwaukee on Oct 23 after the 
GMATs, I d apprec1a1e ''' W1ll share the usual If you re Milwaukee bound. please call Jul1e at 3882 
Ann Arbor/Detroft IS where tts at! (Actually where he s at!) If you re headed to Ann Arbor/Detr01tlor break, I d be eter­nally grateful for a nde. leav•ng Oct 23 after the GMAT s W1ll share the dnv1ng and expenses If you can help me out. please call Usa at 3882 Thanks! 
RIDE NEEDED TO ROCHESTER OR BUFFALO NY FOR BREAK CALL SUSAN 6983 
IF YOU NEED A RIDE TO LEXINGTON, KENTUCKY. CALL DAN AT 277-3832 
NEED RIDERS FOR FALL BREAK TO LANCASTER-LEBANON PA AREA CALL JEFF 232-4731 
NEED nde to TWIN CITIES tor Oct break will share usual Bi/1·3156 
Tentatively need riders lor rent-a·car to Philadelphia, or v•c•mty. leav•ng Sunday after the GMAT s Call ChnS Needles at 1240 or 239-7471 and leave a message 
DESPERATELY NEED RIDE to or near CINCINNATI for breakW1II gladly share costs.Terry6714 
PLEASE' I need nde to M1nn Will pay Dave 3039 
Need to borrow (or rent) a tramed back· pack for October break Call John G1bbon at283·8214 
RIDERS needed to ALBANY.NY area leaving this FAI calf 1007 ask for BOND.JAMES BOND senous 
Need mle to N W suburb of ChiCago (Algonquin) for fall break Please call Tracy x8009 
R1de needed to ana/or from BLOOMINGTON. IN for first well!<end ot break Can leave 2:30 Fn . would like to return Mon or Tues Will share usual. Call Nickat1434 
Ride needed to and/or !rom MADISON. WI SIICond naif of break Would prefer to leave Wed. return Sun 10/31 Will share usual. Call Nick at1434 
RIDE NEEDED GOING SOUTH!!! NEED RIDE T:l OR NEAR LITTLE ROCK ARKANSAS! READY TO LEAVE AFTER 3:00pm THURSDAY WILL SHARE USUAL CALL 1318 
Need nde to /nd1 an a polls T hurs Oct 21 
Need to leave around 11 00 Call H 
NEED ONE RIDER TO NORTHERN VIR· GINIA FOR OCT BREAK (ANNANDALE/ FAIRFAX AREA) CALL SMC 5442 or 4421 WOULD PREFER ROUNDTRIP RIDER 
PRACTICE TIME IS th1s cant t>e true OCTOBER BREAK and /US! FOOTBALL and STUDIES A group ot N 0 Footbal· lers believe lis traditiOn to ENRICH our break w1th FEMALE INTERACTION II??!! hey! th1s ts a first class team put those whtps and chatns away we are not all lmebackers A few get togethers wllh ya/1 are on tap so. you tun lov1ng g11ls the tun IS on us Make your BIG PLAY by calling x8467 x8582 x1078 DAN THIS IS THE BIGGEST BREAK OF THIS SEASON .. ITS FIRST AND GOAL-.. DON T BE HELD SCOAELESS'II!IITSSSSSSIIII'! 
Need nde to Cmcmnatt for two Wtll share the usual Can leave Thursday or Fnday Call Dave 8810 
Rtde needed to Chtcago or area (Hinsdale). can leave Fn 12·30 Call Jeff 
2257 
DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO BUF· 
FALO AREA FOR BREAK CALL 8703 IF YOU CAN SPARE THE ROOM AND USE THE CASH 
RIDER needed to New Orleans tor break 
Leav1ng Sat call 5329 smc 
PITTSBURGH-..NEED 1 RIDE FOR BREAK PLEASE CALL COLLEEN 284· 4347 
NeE>d nde to INDPLS on THURS Need to leave around 11 00 Call Heather 5515 

FOR SALE 
FOR SALE:JVC 30 WATT/CHANNEL RECEIVER AND JVC TAPE DECK FOR 24000 
Reliable car for cheap' A non-explos•ve type 74 P•nto Statton Wagon. runs great. 
•deal tor school. only $400 J B 283·8286 
GOING TO 0 HARE?? for sale: one round trip liCk&! on the / ~NITED LIMO D1scount pnces!! Please callx4420 
FOR SALE: JVC 30 Wall f Channel Rece1ver & JVC Tape Dick tor $240 Total Call 1008. ask for Rod 

TICKETS 

WILL PAY BIG MONEY FOR 4 PENN STATE GA TIX. CALL 312-56!>-5959 COLLECT AND ASK FOR STEVE LONGLEY. 
NEED ANY KIND OF PENN STATE TIX CALL MEG· 7628 
Need Penn Stale Gas W1ll pay cold hard cash 8539 
Need 6 PENN ST GAs$$ SMC 5467 
GOLLY JEEPERS! I need two PENN STATE GAs. b1g brother would hke to see a game wilh Pop Call DAVE at 1165 
NEED PENN ST GAs BIG TIME! $$$ CALL 1627 wr11 pay any amount necessary for two Penn State GA tickets Call Paul at 272· 5744 or leave a note tn the L box at the Law School 
NEEDED DESPERATELY! 2 g a t1x to the penn st game The earlier you call the more deluxe your bux call mafl277-4573 
NEED TICKETS FOR PENN ST OR PITT GAME CALL GOODILL AT 232­4731 
I NEED PITT.PENN St GAs $$$CALL BRENDAN 3207 
I need the BEST 6 GAs tor Penn Stale Must be 15 yd ltne or better Call me I have the$ Steve-1 061 
NEED 2 Penn Stale GAs and 1 sludeni!JX for tam1ly $$ Please call Nancy 4449 (SMC) 
NEED 2 PAIR PITT GAs PHIL 1764 
Wanted· 4 G A Penn St 11ckets: w11/ pay $:call Steve al233·2651 or 239·5845 
I need Penn State tickets! Student or GA 
Melissa x1308 

For Sale 1 Penn State Student T1ckel Call Laura at 4624 
PENN ST student t1cket for sale Call 234·2456 after 5 p m 
l' PERSONALS 
HAPPY ANNIVERSARY JPO AFTER 365 DAYS. FROM DC TO TEXAS TO NO. PEORIA WILL ALWAYS BE MY FAVORITE PLACE TO COME HOME TO 
Need a ride to either northern New Jer­sey (right off Rt. 80) or the Allentown, Pa. area lor October break. Can leave Wednesday, Oct. 20. Call Mike, 277­4300. 
BOSTON BUS LEAVES FRIDAY AT 4 PM NO LATER' ARRIVE BY 3 40 HAP­py HOUR COMMENCES AT 415 LEAVES FROM CCE 
LOOK OUT BOSTON HERE COMES RLB Ill. J P. GALLAGHER. & BILLY THE COMBAT ZONE WILL NEVER BE THE SAME WELL SAVE A SCORPION BOWL FOR YOU JOHNNY. GUSH. & BERTCH -MJ 
'83-SENIORS-'83 p,._Hal/oween Costume Party at Senior Bar Wed. Oc­tober 10, 11182 Prlzea, Food, Specials, & alive Band 
HELP' I need a nde to CINCINNATI for October Break! Call Sue x1759 
The Semor Class '" con,unctlon w•lh the Alumnt·Semor Club as throwtng one heck of a pre-halloween SOCIAL EX· TRAVAGANZA. Be there Wed N1te. 1n costume!! 
Hey, It's SENIOR COSTUME NITE at Senior Bar! 
LOST N 0 Leiter tacket PLEASE Return 1t!! Reward x1981 
HOW ABOUT AMSTERDAM? tnlerna· t1ona1 SUitcase Club Party. Thurs. Nov 4. 8 30PM SMC Clubhouse Members and guests weicomed ND..SMC WOMEN SCREW 
FROM BOW TO EIGHT I THINK 
YOU RE GREA TJ!'!!!! GOOD LUCK IN 
BOSTON SLUGGIES' 

LOVE, 9-SEAT 
NEED A SOCIAL LIFE? If you re looktng for ways to tmprove your soctal hfe, come JOin our co·ed growth group For more tnformation call Sandy or Sally at the C & PSC 1239· 7336) or stop by the thlfd floor of the Student Health Center 
THE MARTIANS ARE ATTACKING! 
WAR OF THE WORLDS 
HALLOWEEN AT 11 00 PM 
WSNO FM889 

HELP ME PLEASE! I lost my phl/osphy text -Phl!osphy: The Basic Issues by Klemke.l have a teat this Thursday and the bookstore is sold out. I will pay bucks lor one wweek's use ol this book. Please call Diane at 7983. 
GOING TO O'HARE SATURDAY MORNING? DON'T WANT TO PAY RIDICULOUS UNITED LIMO FARE? CALL GREG AT x1421 
APEX ROCKS SENIOR BAR TONIGHT!!II 10to 1 
Many thanks to those who helped me 
Friday afternoon when ltnpped and fell by 
LaFortune And R1ck (?).want your ban­
dana back? 

Pam x7260 
To whoever sent the flower. you re the onewhossweet'T hatmademyday!But why dtdn t you s1gn your name?·-Tonta 
Hey Sharona! Exactly how many strokes a m1nute CAN you do? Your MIT men want to know Good tuck at the Head slug· go! 
The TRUEBLUEBREWCREW IS unstop­pable' WSC-MB 
JoanJet. Bnan. Colleen, Moonbeam. Joy. Pany. G1ana. LJ. T1sh. MeMo. Kath. Pat. Allison. Danny, Virg1n1a. KVC. CJ. Nick­tenums. et a/: What awesome fnends! What an awesome birthday' (Thanks) Love. Steph 
Bnan Bothwell Take off your underwear and celebrate!! 
LIZWODOG 
W1sh1ng you· 

21·candleson a Mansel roll 
an all expenses pa1d tnp to the Edm· 
burgh Woolen MillS 

the Mayfa" Buttery. takeaway.of 
course 
20p for a Cadbury 

more brussel sprouts Jrom the greengrocer 
a VISit to the Wren church of your chotce a half p1nl at Pnnce Alfred s R1ght 
Cheers' 
Love. Donna. Meg. and L1z 
Gee Happy B•rtlldayll Yes. that s you were talk1ng to. you U K AD Hey. we heard surf s up at the Rellecuon Pool!' Watch out and have a happv one"·'· Love ya II. The Dears of Walsh 
Dear Sk1p: L1llle d1d we know that your sports experttse and always Postttve comments are paralleled by a new-found talent as a movte cnfJC Other umversJtJes should be as lucky' Thanks heres look1ng at you LaGrofla P S Why do nt YOU put on your trenchcoal and fly the h--out of here Stgned. Pangborn Hall 
Dear Mary (The Cook1e Goddess). Thanks for everythtng, tncludtng the many n~ghts of STUDY for the Core Course paper Have a great break and say HI to mom and dad tor me Love. A Non-Stereotype 
ATTENTION ALL STUDENTS! Elections are the t11s1 Tuesday after break AI that t1me 11 will be to late to do anything about absentee ballots Wh1le you are home. contact your LOCAL elect1on board tor the proper procedure It you re not gomg home. call or contact them to gel your bal· lot Remember. VOTE the chotce ts yours!!! 
An early Happy Birthday to the fortunate little wttch of the East' See you at the Seton Hall-Roxbury game 1n googood old Succasunna! 
Way to go Martyne' Do 11 aga1n. G Bahlin­ger1 One more lime. Cook1et. 
MEAKI 
Pretty POODLE HEAD. Karen' 

Catherine -we make great mustc to· gether!! Have a happy birthday!! Pat 
Dear Susan. I hope you m1ss me half as much as Ill rntss you over October break 
Love, Joe 
Dearest Marta 

Reahztng the demand on your soctal time. I would like to get my b1d for the BEAX­ARTS BALL 1n early (Fn Nov 12) Per· haps you cons1der be1ng approached through the Personals to be 1n very BAD TASTE (and not what a g11l like you ISS 
accustomed to}. but Iam so sensattve and shy ltTal I could not bear a lace to face confrontation. bes•des BAD TASTE is the theme of thts years dance Please con· stder1t 
Eas1ly yours. Bob Johnson 
Bella. T1 p1ace Jl suo personate ogg1? Credo che II personale d1 d()mam e megl!o Forse a presto amtca dt Rome. ma 
BAYLEAF.MO.HIPTWIN ANDY ALL. Thank you for everything Y all are 1n a state.bullhal s OK Have a break.(and tell everyone to SMS) I II shuffle off now 
From the Godmama to the Pub. When the house burns one forgets even lunch·· Yes but one eats later 
sorry 

JJC You re 1ncredtble Sport 
Hey Dave. Lets make mom happy I won 1 rag 1f you wont throw pop cans We can do 11 
Your favonte SISter 
M1ke. No. I don 1 want lo borrow your screwdnver I JUSt want to Wtsh you luck on 
your tests Happy Break. L1sa P S I thought the headband was great' 
Stay luned tor the adventure West How much pumng can one mar, handle??? 
The Obser\'er Wednesday, October 20, 1982 page9 
Irish volleyball team healthy,readyforSM C 
By MIKE SULLIVAN do it in a game situation... .\ports Writer "The girls realized that, without the other two kids (injured players. 
The Notre Dame womem's vol­Bauters and .\1aternowski ): they leyball team, riddled with injuries would have to go out and do it," for the past few weeks, is now nearly added Coach Sandy Vanslager. at full strength again. A week ago, "They had a plan and took action. four starters were injured and two They figured out how to win it." were out of action indefinitely. The team's gradual return to However. only one starter. co­health also played a· major role in the captain Josie Maternowski, will be team's turnabout. Maureen Morin, out of the lineup tonight when the injured before the season started, 
Irish take on the Belles of Saint has returned and is now getting Mary's at the Angela Athletic more and more playing time. Terese facility. Henken, troubled by a bone chip in 
Notre Dame has been plagued by her knuckle, also appears to have injuries to its stronger players for rc;:turned to form. the last three weeks. Terese Henken, "I hope Terese's finger's getting 
Karen Bauters, Mary Jo Hensler, and better," said Anderson. "I know she's Maternowski all joined the injury been hitting the ball a ton." list, and the team's performance -The rejuvenation of the Notre which had been consistently good Dame squad could not come at a 
Notre Dame's defense, led by sophomore Mike fourth Ot'erall. See Irish Item on page 12. (Photo
all season long -suffered miserab­worse time for Saint Mary's. Early in 
Gann, is first in the nation against the run, and by Ed Carroll)
ly. the season, when the Irish were Two poor showings in tourna­healthy, the Belles were thumped in ments that the team should have three straight games. With Notre won, and the team's first loss in a Dame's confidence back and the 

And football 
dual meet (St. francis College) were return of freshman sensation, results of the injuries as inex­Bauters, the results of this match perienced players were put into could be the same as the those ofthe pressure situations and the overall last. Only the absence of co-captain 

Notre Dame honored for academics 
team confidence eroded. Maternowski could make a dif­The team appeared to be in ference. By CHRIS NEEDLES to a highly com­
sible establish and the student athlete." trouble when it traveled to South­"Hopefully, it's as easy as last Sports Editor petitive football program with men 
The award. sponsored by the
western Michigan College last Tues­time," said Anderson, "but last time who are serious academically as well 
Touchdown Club of Memphis,
day to take on a talented SMC team we were at full strength. "We've The University of Notre Dame has as being talented athleticall\'." 
Tenn., will be presented at the
and Kellogg College. But, as quickly been filling Josie's position with been named the 1982 recipient of Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh. 
Liberty Bowl luncheon Decemberas the team had fallen into bad luck. Jackie Pagley, who's been playing the Academic Achievement Award, C.S.C, president of the university, 27 in Memphis. It is presented an­it bounced back and won both great, but we can't use her to set. In­which is presented annually to the 
commented that "Notre Dame has 
nually in an effort to recognize somematches handily. Two more easy stead, we've been using Maureen member of the College Football As­been proud of the graduation rate of the positive virtues associated
victories in Chicago showed that the Morin as a setter." sociation that graduates the highest among athletes -9H percent of with intercollegiate athletics.
team has turned itself around. "All we have to do is play basic," percentage ofits football players. 
those that completed their
"Their passing and serve recep­adds Vanslager. "If we take it too The CFA said H4 percent of aided eligibility received a degree. We The CFA. based in Houlder, Col., is tion was excellent," said Assistant lightly, the game could come out freshman football players who en­take more pride in this fact than in a two-year-old organizationCoach Dan Anderson. "Without the like the St. Francis game. But I think tered Notre Dame in 1976 received 
any victories on the tield ofplay." representing (,() major college tiJOt­perfect passes. you can't run you.r we'll do well. We'll play three strong degrees within five years. 
ball schools, including mo~t major
plays. It's different in practice. games." In announcing the selection yes­Joah Thomas. president of the 
independents and the major con­There's no pressure and running the The match will start at the Angela terday, the CFA said. "The :'1/otre l'niversit\ of Alabama and chairman krences -except the PAC 10 and plays is easy. You have to be able to Athletic Facility at-p.m.. Dame experience pro\'es it is po~-ofthe hoard of director~ of the CFA, 
the Big Ten. 
added. ''This award ranks beyond winning a national championship in :>lotre Dame\ executi\'e vin·
Magazine reports 
terms of achie\'ement to those of us prl'sident. Rn Edmund 1'. .Joyce. who are concerned with academic~ C.S.C. is the ~ecn:tan· of the CFA. 


Sugar Ray Leonardto retire 
'liE\X' YORK (AI') -Boxing Il­ference. with invited guests in black Leonard has not tilllght ~ince he lustrated. a monthlv publication. tie and Howard Cosell ~erving as knocked out Bruce Finch in the will announce :-.ugar Kay Leonard's master ofceremonies, and several of third round on Feb. l S. lie \Va~ to retirment in its December issue, due Leonard's public statements point have detended hi~ title again~t Koger 


Vote for 
10 come out Nov. 1 l. two days after toward retirement. Stafford on :\lay l·t. but the eye in­Leonard has scheduled a news con­"They say I can't walk away from jury was discovered and the tight terence to announce whether or not the money and adulation," the 26-cancelled. 
he will tight again. year-old Leonard. who had earned "About I 0 days or so ago, Ray told 
Bert Sugar, publisher of the about S.3S million in the ring, said :\like Trainer (Leonard's attorney) magazine and also of The Ring. said earlier this month. "Money is no lon­and myselfhe was going to make one yesterday that Leonard will an­ger a factor, see. It doesn't dri\'e me more visit to Dr. :l.lichels about the nounce his retirement before the anymore. If I fight (undisputed mid­end of the month, and that if we had news media, general public and dleweight champion ,\1arvelous a spot for a news conference, he invited guests Nov. 9 at the Bal­Marvin) Hagler. I beat a mid­would be prepared to make a state­timore Civic Center. the arena dleweight. So what." ment around the tirst of the month where the undisputed welterweight Leonard could make many mil­(November)... said Brotman. 
champion launched his pro career in lions more by fighting Hagler. Brotman said he started looking 
Some other Leonard statements: for hotel, but then Leonard sug­Charles Brotman, a spokesman for "This injury is a message. If not, gested the news conference be 
Leonard, told The Associated Press it's a heckuva hint. It doesn't take a opened to the general public free of that Leonard plans to visit Dr. genius to figure out the options charge. It was then Trainer decided Ronald G. :1.1ichels once more before available to me." to try to get the Civic Center in Bal­making a decision about his fighting 'Td like to show kids that a person timore. future. It was Michels who operated can be a champion in other fields." The Civic Center agreed. Starting 
on Leonard last May for a partially "Every day I stay away from time for the program. which will not detached retina in the left eye. boxing, chances are le!'s that I will include live boxing. said Brotman. is But the elaborate news con-go back into the ring... ~p.m., EST. 
1977. 
.....................A'RE..·voli'R..cA'R·£·£·il..eio'Ai:s·····...............
r------------------,
a S~ecial Rat@~ 1 
COMPATIBLE WITH
Sheraton Inn No. 
YOUR PERSONALITY 
(KD-Pitt) ~29.9-:; * Learn-the career fields that best suit your ~rsonali~ 
* Direct your academic efforts efficiently 
'!'lus taw 
* Prepare for the career offering greatest self :-gratification Up to 4 people/room * Avoid time-wasting attempts to become what you are not 
* Learn the personali!X__ traits to work on to achieve your goals
with this coupon 
By companng your personalrty profile wrth the personalrty profiles of thousands of successful men and women rn a varrety of career fields. PERSONAMETRIX can determrne the extent to whrch your personalrty rs surted for a specrfrc career 
Sheraton Inn North Srmply complete our 60-minute self·admrnrstered personalrty rnventory rn .c the pnvacy of your home and return rt to us We wtl: assess your persona: data professionally and return a comorehensrve report describ!rig your 

Ballot box locations: 
4859 McKhight Rd. perso'lalrty profrle <J'1d the exrent ro whrch your proftlt re<>erP[11es rhe pro­file~ of mose who h.we ?:hrt:">'ed success ,~ career t;elds the<trnterest you 
Horth & South Dining Halls.
' I 
'\)i~t., ~a.:;. ~23'7
I 
Send your_name. address and S25 'XJ (check oc money order) to 

La Fortuncz. Saint Mary's Dining Hall.
I I (412)3'55·5200 -PERSONAMETRIX
I 

and Lcz Mans lobby.
9171 \.Vilshrre Blvd .. Suite 300 Bever:y ~ills. CA 90210 
,,...................................................,. ............................................................_............ 
.. . 

'-----------~--------. 

The Observer Wednesday, October 20, 1982 -page 10 
Upset 'Barna 






A major victory for Vols 

Tennessee wide receiver Mike Miller (88) e)'es an Alabama defender during the Volunteers upset ofthe second-ranked Crim­son Tide last Saturday in Knoxville. Coachjobnny Majors' Tennes­see squad heat Alabama, 35-28. (AP Photo) 
PITTSBURGH CLUB fall Break Bus Schedule Buses will leave from lfotre Dame.(lforth Sid., of CCi)and St.Mary's Holy CroFs Friday, October 22, 1982 4~00pm Will arrive in Pittsburgh about 1:30am(Pgh time) 
Buses will return to NDISMC (!om Pif.:t:!!b~'!'l!h. Greyhound Terminal Sunday October 31,1982 1:OO:om (Pgh time) Be there lS minutes before leaving time 
CALL TODAY FOR GUARANTEED RESERVATIONS 
Clip and save this schedule for easy travel planning! To O'Hare FromO'Hare 
LEAVE  ARRIVE  
NOTRE  NOTRE  
DAME  DAME  
BUS  ARRIVE  LEAVE  BUS  
SHELTER  O'HARE  O'HARE  SHELTER  
4 3D a.m.  715 am.  8 30 a.m.  11 00 a.m.  
5:30a.m.  8:15a.m.  10 30 a.m  1·00 p m.  
7.30 a.m.  10:15 a.m  12 30 p m  3:00p.m.  
9:30a.m.  nt5p.m.  2 30 p.m  s·oo p m  
11 30 am.  215 p.m.  4:30p.m.  7 00 p m  
1:30pm  4.15 p m.  6:30p.m  9 00 p m  
3:30 p m  615 p.m.  8 30 p.m  11 00 p m  
5·30 p.m  8.15 p m.  11 00 p.m  1:30 a.m  

TIMES EFFECTIVE THROUGH OCT. 30. 1982. CALL FOR COMPLETE LIST OF PICKUP POINTS AND TIMES. 
FOR RESERVATIONS 
(119) 155-3068 
OR CALL YOUR 
TRAVEL AGENT. 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. ( AP) Sometimes when Johnny .\lajor~ has his staccato Tennessee accent set at full speed ahead, he can be hard to understand. 
But there was no mistaking :VIajors' euphoria when he stormed into the interview room Saturday following Tennessee's Y>-2H upset of second-ranked Alabama. The in­coherent sounds emanating from his 
throat  translated  into  something  
like, "Wow'  we  did it'  We tlnallv  
won a oig one'"  

\lajors was so happy he even hugged a sports writer. After five \Tars of struggle and strik, \·lajors. doctor of ailing tiJothall programs, had at long last injected Tennes~ee with some of its past glory. 
When the game ended and Ten­nessee had beaten arch-rival Alabama for the tlrst time in 12 years, delirious fans tore down one goalpost and triumphantly paraded it around the field. while the players were summoned for a curtain call and many of the 95,000 spectators serenaded them with strains of "Rocky Top, Tennessee." 
Forgotten wen: embarrassing 
losses to Rutger~ in 19..,9. Virginia in 
19HO and Duke in this season's 
opener. For the moment, Tennessee 
was hack in the national spotlight. 
even though the record was onh ~­
2-1, including a tie with nation~liv 
ranked LSl · one week earlier. · 
Saturday's triumph could not have 
come at a more opportune time. 
"The :'\lotre Dame victory (.f0-1 H in 
19'9 l was great. but nothing like 
this. This is by lar the outstanding 
one at Tennessee." .\lajors said. 

Alter coaching Iowa State to respectability and going _,5-15-I m lin1r years at Pitt, including the 19..,6 national champion1>hip, ,\1ajors was hailed as a miracle-worker when he returned to his alma mater in 197'7. 
"I never said I was the brightest guy in the world. but !like to think I can coach football," he said. "But 1 don't have all the answers; I never had." 
Times had changed. "You can't give a hundred scholarships like the old days," said Majors, who brought in Hj freshmen his first year at Pitt, including a running hack named Tony Dorsett. 
The :'\ICAA scholarship limit when 
he arri\'ed at Tennessee was 50 a 
year, and no more than 95 wtal at 
any one time. Coupled with injuries, 
illnesses and instability. plus lots of 
shuffling on the coachingstaff-not 
not one of hi~ original a_o;sistants is still here -:\'lajors ha_-; been hard­pressed to keep up with Southea~t­ern Conferen~-e powers like Alabama and <ieorgia. 
In addition. Tennessee doesn't see nearly as mam· SEC prospects as Florida. Georgia or Alabama -the Vols ha\'en't been SEC champs since 1969 -and \lajoro; s;~'~ the last great quarterback~ the high school~ have produced were-Sti\'e Spurrit:r ( Florida I 96·!-66 ) .md Ste\'e Sloan (Alabama 1965-65 ). 
"Recruitmg ts still the name ofthe game," he said. "I look at our team now compared to when we came here and we have better people, more speed. more size. We're stronger. bigger and faster. But at the same time. I see improvement in the people who were playing good foot­ball before that." 
Cross country 



Runners bridge culture gap 
ByJEFF BLUMB 
.\ports Writer 

From widely different hack­grounds, Marc Wozniak and Tim Cannon have emerged as the top two runners of the Notre Dame cross country team this season. To­gether though, they hold the desire to be the best that they possibly can be. 
Such dedication is apparent in the 
story of Wozniak, the senior co­
captain. "Mark's dedication is un­
paralleled," remarked coach Joe 
Piane. "He ha~ a wife. three kids, 
works forty hours a week, ha~ a 
home to maintain, runs twice a day, 
and still manages to keep up his 
studies. And some kids think they 
have problems." 

After a five year post-high school 
layoff, Wozniak decided to get back 
into running. "I was tired of the 
shape I wa~ in. Southwestern Michi­
gan Junior College offered me the 
chance to gain hack that athletic feeling I had lost." 


Wozniak really gained it back. In his two p:ars at Southwestern Michi­gan, he led his team to the number­two and three national rankings besides becoming a national cham­pion in the junior college marathon during the spring of his sophomore season. 
Looking at about thirty to forty scholarship offers after that season, Wozniak opted for his life long dream of Notre Dame. The South Bend native, who lettered four years in cross country and track at LaSalle High School, previously knew Coach Piane through a mutual ac­quaintance. "I had told him to get his grades up and someday I would do everything I could to help him get in," reflected Piane. 
Last fall in his first year at Notre Dame, Wozniak established himself as the team's number one runner by being the first or second Notre Dame runner across the finish line in every meet. With one exception, he has done the same in the team's four meets so far this year. 
Wozniak maintains his interest in 
running through the thrill of 
decreasing his times. "It's a good 
release from academics too," he 
commented. 

Enjoying long distance running, Marc has competed in a number of marathons including Boston, Evansville, Fort Wayne and Chicago, twice. 
In contrast to Wozniak, Tim Can­non enjoys running shorter dis­
tances.  The  sophomore  from  
.\luskegeon.  \tichigan  also  runs  
twice daily in training.  

Cannon got involved in running in a rather round-about way. "I went to a boarding school to play tennis. The boarding school had a traditional race, I was encouraged to run in it, and subsequently won it." 
This brought about a choice for Cannon. Wa_~ he to play tennis orrun track? Obviously, he eventually chose the latter and ended up at Notre Dame. 
Choosing Notre Dame over other schools with better cross country programs was easy for Tim. "I really liked the special spirit, the sincerity of Coach Pian e. the alumni, and the tew students I had met." I didn't hun either that his dad was a Notre Dame graduate. 
Cannon maintains his interest in running through a desire to keep improving. "On a higher level I feel it is a reflection of my entire life," he stated. His hope is to get a good education while at the same time meeting his goals as far as running goes. 
Last year as a freshman. Tim surprised everyone by becoming the number two Irish runner. He wa~ one ofthe top three Notre Dame finishers in every race in addition to being the only runner besides Waz­niak to compete in every meet. 
So far this year, Cannon has been the second Notre Dame finisher twice, and the first Notre Dame finis­her in the two other meets. the Notre Dame Invitational and the In­
diana Big State, where he took eighth and second places respectively. 
The future looks very bright for Tim Cannon. "He's a fine miler. and could eventually run it in under four minutes," observed Coach Piane. The Alumni Hall resident is present­ly following a generaf program of Liberal Studies. 
\!arc Wozniak's future looks rather promising also. "\lark has nowhere accomplished what he will." said Piane. The economics major ha~ aspirations of attending law school after graduation. 
So what enables Wozniak and Cannon to stand out from other Notre Dame runners' Piane offers this explanation. "Both have a big desire to he good. and that's vital for 
a runner." Cannon sums up their 
consistenc): hest. "I think ~-(: both 
want to be \Try good runners... 




Ihe~crer========================================= 

~~4()l~~==========================~==e=d=n=es=d=a=y=,O==c=to=b=e=r=2=0=,=1=9=8=2===p=a=g=e=l=l
Doonesbury 



Simon 



Spike's World 



The Daily Crossword 

©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 10/20/82 All Rights Reserved 
:·~fi~ir.I>C>E.sirii~··································~~ 
i STUDENTUNIONRECORDSTORE !
• 
:cHEAPERPRICFS .. '"' 21 \2J•rn·moni"1J'fll<"~ HAVE FQR ME? :·
. .
. ~ 
• MOSTCURRE:\!TSINGLES. Sl>.~llin•mp,or,·.u SK'J'II"' I. "'-•
. ·-. ..) . 
:CUT.OUTS ... 52.'1sr.. 5' ''" : : GKEATSELECTIOI" ... "t•rm~''""·hot:..il~·r~. ~,·,u·'i'~'· : 
• cn... tnplh·r Crn' .\\u"-h Uh,,.,_ P.tt lk11,1t,tr. e • -~'''fill'\ .•mdtJl,llt\ nh'n·· • e ~-.. n,·,•rdt-..J.,nJI,l.mkt,l("'-"'·''·''I.JI,It· • : OJI'\\'ENIEI'\CE .. ,lh< '-!J~l H<\l•t.\'>lool ',. '• ·,.nth< ; 
a \\.tmt1t-.,ru11..th,nww.tndl'l't"-11 \tl I e I PLUS-ttrJt:rnl.llhnm,t.lki:nnl\ntW,,l,-kh,,trrl\t'~ _ : 

Garry Trudeau 


10/20/82 



Campus 
•4:30 
p.m. -Biology Lecture, "Acid Precipita· tion: Causes, Consequences and Controversies," Dr. Gene E. Likens, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 

•4:30 
p.m. -Chemistry Lecture, "Bioinorganic Electron Transfer Mechanisms," Prof. Harry B. Gray, 123 Nieuwland Science 

•6:
15 p.m. -Corvilla House Visitation, Meet at Library Circle 

•6:30 
p.m. -Right to Life Meeting, Volunteer Services Center • ., p.m. -College Bowl, Carroll Hail, SMC 


•: p.m. -Volleyball, ND vs. St. Mary's, Angela Athletic Facility 
•7, 
9, & 11 p.m. -Film, "Goldfinger," Engineer­ing Auditorium. Sponsored by Joint Engineering Council, Sl 

•7:30 
p.m.-Meeting, for Apple Microcomputer user's group. 122 Hayes Healy 

•7:30 
p.m.-Sailing and Seamamship Course, Madeleva Hail, Room 35I. Sponsored by US Coast Guard Auxiliary 

•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Grace: Medieval Magic?" Fr. Lahey, C.S.C., II 5 O'Shaughnessy Hall, Sponsored by Thomas More Society 

•9 
p.m. -Co-recreational Volleyball, Angela Athletic Facility, SMC 



T.V. Tonight
T.J. Wrobel 
6p.m. 
6:30p.m. 
7p.m. 
Sp.m. 
8:30p.m. 9p.m. 10p.m. 
10:30p.m. 
11p.m. 11:30p.m. 
.an
Brl 
16 22 28 34 16 22 28 34 16 22 28 34 22 28 22 22 16 22 28 34 16 22 
28 34 28 16 

NewsCenter 16 22 Erewirness News Newswatch 2H The MacNeil/Lehrer Report M*A*S*H* Family Feud Tic Tac Dou~h 
Strai~ht Talk World Series Game ..., Seven Brides for Seven Brothers Tales of the Gold Monkey Great Performances Alice The Fall (;uy Filthy Rich Tucker's Witch :'<ewsCenter 16 
ll Eyewitness News Newswatch ltl The Dick Cavett Show 
Toni~ht Show Archie Bunker's Place/CBS Late ,\1ovie ABC News Ni~htline Captioned ABC News Love Boat Late :'<i~ht with David Letterman 
The saga of a 6 month old domer. 
-
.00\JB&.e EMu. NIGHT was aT~tauMaTIG ~H1Wt400P 
exPu:. J"-1:1" • 
-


ACROSS 1 Throngs 5 Low-grade 
yarns 
9 Mea ­14 Dot of land 15 Blind part 16 Arctic or 
Indian 17 Getz or Kenton 18 Movie-TV 
actress 20 Judgments 22 Malacca 23 Vicinity 24 Sturdy tree 25 Sea-bird 
27 Chapter 
heading 29 A Jagger 32 Sign up 

Tuesday's Solution 
... \ •, 

37 Do tiresome 
work 39 Poetic foot 41 Slave in 
a lamp 42 "Camino-" 43 Walking 
stick 
45 "-boy!" 46 "The Lady-" 48 Thick slice 49 Son of Noah 50 Herb used 
in dyes 52 Card game 
for two 54 Tiny 56 Indian ape 57 Naughty 60 Voyaging &4 Angle in 
botany 66 Cecil De­68 Paddywagon 71 Bargain 
event 72 Rangoon's land 73 Rehearsal group 74 Frosting machine 75 " ...gang 
aft-" 76 Head: Fr. 77 -terrier 
DOWN 1 Botch 2 Ancient 
port of Rome 3 "The-
Jungle" 4 Transmitted 5 Invite 6 Omen 
felines 7 Theda­8 Gregg or 
Pittman expert 
9 Male swan 10 West coast campus 
11 TV producer Norman 12 Set the 
speed 13 Singer Paul 19 Bird of 
Hawaii 

21 Motorist's 
club 26 Les Etats ­28 Sch. subj. 30 Wasted 
time 31 Equal of 
amiss 33 Smallest 34 Makinga 
profit 35 Location 36 Sports 
group 37 Demure 38 Ms. Horne 40 Mark as 
unworthy 44 Ski·lift device 47 Morning moisture 51 Paper 
quantity 53 Butt 55 Accurate 58 Narrow way 59 Inventor 
of farm 
equipment 60-Eban 61 Phony coin 62 Nobleman 63 Pinnacle 65 Dies­67 Wife of 
Osiris 69 Jay's follower 70 Had a meal 

~-----------~----------~~-----~----­


S~orts 
• 
Portable lights will once again loom over the 
Notre Dame Stadium -this time for the Penn 
State game. The Observer bas learned that the 

For Penn State game 
MUSCO lights will return 
game will be televised on ABC-TV. -(Photo by Rachel Blount) 
By SKIP DESJARDIN 
Sports EditorEmeritus 
The Notre Dame-Penn State game scheduled for Saturday, Nov. 13 at Notre Dame Stadium will be televised by ABC-TV, The Ohseruer has learned. 
The starting time for the game will be moved to approximately 3:30 
p.m. (EST). and portable lights will once again be erected by :\tt:sco Mobile Lighting, Ltd. 
"We will be televising the Notre 
Dame-Penn State game,"' Don 
Bernstein, public relations director 
for college sports at ABC, confirmed 
yesterday. "At this time, we are not 
sure whether the game will be 
televised on a regional or national 
basis. But it will be televised." 
When asked for confirmation yes­terday, Associate Sports Information Director John Heisler denied that the game had been changed. 
"As far as we know, no official decision has been made," Heisler told The Obsen•er. We have been in contact with ABC, and they have expressed an interest. But no deci­sion in these matters is made until the Monday before the game." Heis­ler maintained that the final deter­mination would be made on the basis of Notre Dame's record at that time. 
Bernstein, however, was adamant in his denial of the claim that the teams· won-loss records would dictate the television coverage. 
"The decision on whether it will be a region tat or national game will be made at a later time, based on programming developments," Bernstein said by phone from New York. "That decision will have no­thing whatsoever to do with future wins or losses on the part of either team." 
The Ohserz•er has also learned that confidential memos from the office of Athletic Director Gene Corrigan have been distributed, and that the memos stipulate that the time of the game has indeed been changed to sometime between 3:30 and 3:4S 
At 3apiece 


Cards even World Series 
ST. LOUIS (AP) -Keith Hernan­dez drove in four runs and rookie John Stuper sat through 2 and a half hours of pouring rain last night before completing a four-hitter that gave the St. Louis Cardinals a 13-1 victory over the Milwaukee Bre t wers and forced a decisive seventh game in the World Series. 
Baseball's 79th championship, a match of two Midwestern beer towns, will be decided tonight with Joaquin Andujar pitching for the Cardinals and Pete Vuckovich for the Brewers in a rematch ofGame 3, won 6-2 by St. Louis. 
The Cardinals struck quickly last night and capped the rout with six runs in the sixth inning. 
Only one run had scored in that inning when rain forced the second delay in the game, lasting 2 hours, 13 minutes. Hernandez1, who hit a two­run homer in the fifth, drove in two more with a single in the sixth. 
Darrell Porter also hit a two-run homer for St. Louis and designated hitter Dane Iorg set a Series record with three extra-base hits as the Car­dinals unleashed an uncharacteristic power display that buried the American League champs and start­er Don Sutton. 
Stuper lost his clrance for just the fifth shutout in World Series history by a rookie -and the first since 1948 -when Jim Gantner doubled in the ninth, went to third on a single by Paul Molitor and scored on a wild pitch. 
The Brewers had 53 hits in the first five games, but none betwen the fourth and ninth innings. 
The rain fell lightly in the second inning, a little harder in the fourth and hard enough in the fifth to force the first delay, 26 minutes. 
By that time, Sutton was out ofthe game. When the rain forced the second postponement, the Brewers were out ofit, too. 
Sutton, a National Leaguer before joining the Brewers last Aug. ) 1, has not beaten the Cardinals at Busch Stadium for six years. This time, he lasted just 41-3 innings, giving up seven runs on seven hits. Two ofthe runs were unearned as the Brewers, 
Wednesday, October 20, 1982 -page 12 

Irish still No.1 against the run 
DEFENSE STAYS UP-Despite giving up 73 yards on the ground, and a total of 272 yards in last Saturday's game. the "Gold Rush" defense remains the best in the country against the run, but dropped to No. 4 in total defense. · 
average total rushing gain by a Notre Dame opponent. The Wildcats' 
fourth-quarter touchdown was the first rushing touchdown allowed 
by the Irish this season. It won't be the last if the offense doesn't 
improve: 

WHO SAYS THEY'RE DUMB -When Oregon announced that 
they would play host to Notre Dame, Duck fans had to wonder if 
their team would ever schedule a non-conference game that their 
team could win. 

With a sell-out crowd of 42,000 expected in Eugene Saturday, 
about 12,000 out-of-town Notre Dame fans, the Eugene-Springfield 
Convention and Visitors Center calculates that approximately S1.2 
million will flow into the area. For visitors' eating and drinking 
pleasure, the Eugene Hilton has opened eight additional bars, and 
will post a blackboard in the lobby to inform people which res­
taurants have immediate seating. 
WE RETURN TO ACTION SIX YEARS LATER -When we last saw 
these two teams, Notre Dame had just won a convincing 41-0 vic­
tory over the Ducks of Oregon. AI Hunter and Vagas Ferguson 
comf)ined for 179 yards and three touchdowns as the Irish rolled up 
519 total yards ofoffense. 

The Ducks have a problem offensively. Winless in six outings, the 
Ducks are playing musical quarterbacks with sophomore .'\like Jor­
genson shited to start against the Irish. Jorgenson was effective 
against a strong Washington team and was playing well against 
California before a second-quarter concussion forced him from the 
game. lie is one of four -count 'em, toUF -quarterbacks used by 
Coach Rich Hrooks this season. 
THE KICK IS UP. . ITS GOOD -Placekicker :\like Johnston continues to be the Notre Dame offense. With his two tleld goals against Arizona, he set a Notre Dame record tor career consecutive field goals (II ).Johnston has accounted tor 41 ofthe Irish' 91 points this year. 
THE BEST OFFENSE -As the saying goes, the best offense is a good defense. Oregon has scored seven touchdowns in six games, and three have come when the opponent was in punt formation. The Ducks have blocked two punts into the endzone, and returned an­other for the scores. Under Rich Brooks, the Ducks have blocked four punts for touchdowns, and returned three others for six­pointers. 
ANCHORS AWAY-The Irish go into their Oct. 30 game with 
Navy boasting a series record of 45-9-1. In away games at Navy, 
Notre Dame has a 31-6-1 lead. In the only meeting between the two 
teams at the Meadowlands, the Irish shut out the Middies, 33-0, in 
1980. 

In the two games Notre Dame has played in Giant Stadium. their 
opponent has not scored a single point. To go along with the Navy 
shutout, Notre Dame also blanked Army in 1977, 24-0. 
In all, Notre Dame has won the last 18 games in the series that 
dates back to 1927. The last time the Irish lost was in 1963 by a 35-14 
margin. 

CONFIDENCE BOOSTER -Blair Kiellooks to regain the form he exhibited in last year's Navy game. He completed 13 passes in 23 attempts for 22S yards during Notre Dame's 38-0 win here. 
Navy has also given the Irish a defensive boost the last few meetings. The Middies have scored just sez•en points against Notre Dame in the last four meetings, and none in the last three. 
NO PITT LOTTERY -There will not be a student lottery for tick­ets to this year's Pitt game. Ticket Manager Steve Orsini arranged to make more Michigan State tickets available to Notre Dame students at the request of Student Body Vice President Bob Yonchek. In return, the student ticket allotment of 200 tickets for the other away games on the schedule would not be used. 
Although sales of Navy tickets were halted by the ticket office a few weeks ago, there are still tickets available. Notre Dame received additional tickets and has re-opened sales. Tickets are also available for the Air Force game in Colorado Springs. 
p.m. that afternoon. 

Officials of MUSCO Mobile Light­
ing, Ltd. also confirmed yesterday 
that the company will provide light­
ing for a late-afternoon game be­
tween Notre Dame and Penn State 
on Nov. 13 

"All the arrangements have not been tlnalized at this point," a spokesman said. "but we will he going to Notre Dame for that game." 
Sports Information Director and Associate Athletic Director Roger \'aldiserri had no knowledge that a decision had been made as of S p.m. yesterday. "But if Don Bernstein and Ml'SCO say they are coming. they are coming," he said. 
Corrigan could not be reached for comment yesterday afternoon. and did not return The Obsen.•er's phone calls. 
MUSCO came to Notre Dame in September to provide lighting for the Notre Dame-Michigan game. That was the first time ever that portable, artificial lights were used for a college football game. 
who committed seven errors in the first tlve games ofthe Series, had two more in the tlrst three innings. 
The Cardinals, meanwhile, were playing the unaccustomed role of long-ball hitter t s. 
Whit~)' Herzo!{

I 
l 
~ 
L 







