,Haley's Comet-page 6 

THURSDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1982
VOL. XVII, NO. 69 
the independent ~tudent ncw~paper ~lTYing notre dame and ~aint mary·~ 
Shot during van escape 
Man holds n1onun1ent hostage 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A man at 7:35 p.m. when the van careened be a radio transmitter of the type_ who threatened to blow up the downhill and police opened fire. It used to guide model airplanes. He Washington monument with a was safe after 9 p.m. when the body made his demands in a printed truckload of dynamite unless he was removed from the scene. leaflet he handed to a reporter who won "a national dialogue on the "We weren't about to let the van acted as an intermediary with nuclear weapons question" was leave the monument grounds," said police. killed by police gunfire in the Mayor Marion Barry. The truck "As an act of sanity, ban nuclear 
eleventh hour of his siege yesterday careened down the grassy slope weapons or have a nice doomsday," night when he tried to drive off toward Constitution Avenue, and said a printed leaflet that served as a toward the White House. was brought to a stop at a point still list of demands. It warned that the He died for a bluff. There was no several blocks from the South Lawn truck contained "I,000 pounds of dynamite in his van. 
of the \Vhite House. TNT that can be detonated four dif-Police said the man was Norman All day, the man had paced around See MONUMENT, page 4
D. Mayer. 66, of Miami Beach, Fla., the van, holding what appeared to owner of the van. 
Officers searched the monument for an accomplice who may have run inside during the chaotic scene. The 
F acuity Senate discusses famed obelisk was flooded with tear gas before officers began their step­
by-step search. After five hours, 

scarce classroom space
there still was no confirmation that 
anyone was inside. sound-proof walls, television
By KATHY WEISENBERGER Mayer had a history of protesting screens, and other such modernized
News Staff 
against nuclear war -the last few equipment. But, Borelli added, the 
weeks outside the White House scheduling of more 8 a.m. and 4:30
Just as students are tired of being gates. And a friend who visited him squeeezed into a miniscule class­p.m. classes would alleviate the need 
during the siege said it was Mayer. are for such a building for at least three
room, so professors disturbed dressed in a blue jumpsuit and hel­or four years.
about the lack ofavailable classroom 
met, who had staged the threat. space, as discussed in the second Professor Carson Daly brought up Mayor Mario Barry said 'there the point of financial aid distribu­
meeting of the Faculty Senate last were no explosives in the truck. The tion. With fewer funds allotted to
night in the CCE. man had claimed, variously, that it Presiding over the meeting, Notre Dame, fewer students are 
contained dynamite or "I,OOO going to receive it, he said. The ques­
pounds of TNT." The threat had tion of just who will be Professor Vaughn McKim directed 
discussion ofthis topic in addition to now forced the closing or partial evacua­qualified was raised. Should it go to
others, including financial aid dis­tion of several government build­those who maintain a high GPA, or
tribution, compensation reports, ings; even President and Mrs. Reagan remain separate from the aspect of
and cable television in the dorms. wok special precautions inside the grades altogether? Daly said that fur­
Vaughn McKim, chainnan ofthe FacuiZJ' Senate, leads a discus­
"The situation is rather bad," said executive mansion. ther action is needed on this point, 
sion last night in the CCE. Topics included classroom size, finan­
Prot fessor Mario Borelli in regard to 
cial aid, and compensation reports. See Kathy Wiesen berger's story
The siege had begun in the bright in order to be fair to all students who
the desperate need for available clas­fall sunshine at 9:20 a.m. EST, when 
on this page. (Photo by Melinda Hopkins)
srooms. Borelli said that often when 
See SENATE, page 3
the van -a ~ign t reading "No. I asking the registrar for an open 
Priority. Ban Nuclear Weapons" 
room, professors are told that there painted on its side -was driven up a 
are none. Yet peeking into the doors 
Moral response
grassy slope, facing the door of the 
of O'Shaughnessy, as many as three monument. Nine people were 
or four empty rooms are discovered. trapped inside for more than five 
The possibility of constructing a 


Catnpus Ministry counsels CO's 
hours. but they were allowed to 
new classroom building was then leave in the afternoon. discussed, perhaps with such in­
By MIKE LEPRE t(Jrm with Sdeui,·e Service. a hearing is scheduled forThe end came, under floodlights, novations as pie-shaped rooms, 
SeniorStaffReporlt'r the CO to appear before a local claims hoard. 
"The CO must show letters of recommendation to 
Amidst the current attention centering on the buil­the board. but most importantl\·. the CO must present 
dup ofnuclear weapons lies anotht·r moral issue -the himself honestly," says Baxter. In this district, the 
question ofconscientious objection. claims board consists of the people who are "specially 
To help answer this question, the ~otre Dame trained to weed out those claimants who exhibit errant 
Campu~ Ministry provides a special service to help stu­consciousness." 
Democratic chairman 


discusses 1984plans 
dents decide their moral response to the prospect of Baxter contends that the stringency of the judge­
being in the military and tlghting in a war. ments depends primarily on the composition of each 
By TIM VERCELLOTTI the House. and to regain a majority Specifically, a conscientious objector is a person who particular board. Baxter said he believes that "with the 
News Editor in the Senate and residency at I600 is opposed to war in anv t(mn, because of either his aid of Campus .\1inistry. any CO who is sincerely com­
Pennsylvania Ave. moral or religious convictions. .\\any young people, mitted to hb cause will have a high probability of 
"The 1980 election was probably "You can't fight something with however, face the problem of determining whether or success in winning his case." 
one ofthe best things that happened nothing," he said. not they qualify as a CO. "Campus .\Iinistry knows the regulations and the 
to us." a Democratic party official :"v1anatt denied reports that the According to --------~------------------~ laws regarding COs and in this manner we can help the 
said here last night. party is currently "in search of its :"vlichael Baxter 
student tremendously," states Baxter,"but it must be 
That's right. a Democrat said that, soul." "Don't you believe that tor a of Campus .\1inis­remembered that being a CO requires a great deal of 
and not just any Democrat, but second," he told the small crowd in try, his depart­effort on the part of the student as well." 
Charles .'vlanatt, chairman of the na­attendance. ment puts The moral aspect ofconscientious objection poses a 
tional committee of the Democratic A major portion of that soul as students through difikult question ti>r many Catholics. A statement 
party and chief architect of party outlined hy .\lanatt deals with the a "two-fold issued by a conference of American bishops following 
reconstruction for the 198-i general economy. He charged that the process." This process "initial:y involves discerning if ex-President Carter's initiation of draft registration ex­
election. 
the individual is truly a CO, and then the second phase amined the issue of military service.
See MANATT, page 3 

\1anatt described the rebuilding deals with hdping the student to prepare a written The statement asserts that while the bishops process, as well as the economic and statement which will go into our tiles." "acknowledge the duty of the state to defend society social issues that the party will be The process toward conscientious objection is not as and its correlative right to use force in certain cir­focusing on in the next session of 
simple as it may seem. Baxter asserts that "if students cumstances," they also "affirm the Catholic teaching 
Congress during a talk entitlt:d "The want to make a claim, then the burden of proof is on that the state's decision to use force should always be 
Future of the Democratic Party and them to s'1ow evidence that thev have been a CO." This morally scrutinized by citizens asked to support the 
the 198-t Elections" last night at the burden ofproof must include a1~y type ofwritten docu­decision or to participate in war." 
Library Auditorium. ment varifying the fact that the claimant has declared In addition, the bishops' statement supports the 
The Los Angeles lawyer said that their moral objections to war. prior to a draft. rights of COs "as a valid moral position, derived from 
Democrats have adopted a number This statement must contain three major themes, the Gospel and Catholic teaching, and recognized as 
of campaign tactics used by the according to Baxter. The writer must reveal to the well in LJ.S. civil law." The bishop's document also re· 
Republican party in 1980. such as Sdective Service System the nature ofhis beliefagainst quests that schools and religious educators "include 
direct mailings, training programs war, how these bdids originated, and how the\' are systematic formation ofconscience on questions ofwar 
for Democratic congressional manifested in the individual's wav of life. . and peace in their curricula."
can­did.:tes. campaign managers and The task of the conscientious ;>bjector does not end "It is really important for people to think carefully party workers. and further work there, however. A CO, upon receiving his draft notice, about becoming a CO," says Baxter, calling this type of with state party organizations in an 
must tile an SS-9 form within ten days of the postmark date which appears on the notice. Once having filed the See ML~ISTRY, page 4
efti>rt to retain a party majority in 



,, 

News Brief§ 
By The ( Jbser11er and The Associated Press 
A $50 fine was assessed to a Notre Dame student after the Kentucky basketball game for throwing an object at the basketball tloor, according to Dean ofSrudemsJames Roemer. "The University thinks it is quite discourteous to a visiting team and to their fans to throw objects at them," said Roemer. "It is certainly not in the finest traditions ofsportsmanship here at Notre Dame." -The Observer 
Floods that have chased more than 3s.ooo 
people from their homes in the Mississippi Valley gushed into new territory yesterday while receding waters in some areas left entire towns a muddy mess with cars and debris piled against houses and tree~. Torrential rains late last week caused flooding that has left at least 20 dead and four missing in Illinois, Missouri and Arkansas, with preliminary damage estimates topping half a billion dollars. Winds gusting to hurricane force yesterday knocked out the power to 143,000 households in Southern California and blew cars off icy In­terstate 80 in Utah. where up to 15 inches ofsnow fell in places. The Illinois River was exper:ted to crest Thursday at I 0. 5 feet above flood stage in Peoria, Ill., just inches short of the level in record flooding in 1943. The nation's mightiest river is expected to crest about 14 feet over tlood stage below St. Louis on Friday. -AP 
A 20-year-old New Jersey man has been 
found guilty ofcriminal mischief in the vandalism that caused more than S2 million damage to Newark's water system. Jurors on Tues­dav found Stephen Black, of Pequannock, guilty of reckless criminal mi,schiefand conspiracy to commit criminal mischief, said Tobv Ser­
rouya, secretary for Superior CourtJudge Kenneth C. MacKenzie. He faces a maximum penalty of 18 months in prison and a S7,500 fine, said Peter Dav, law clerk for MacKenzie. Vandab turned a valve on July ~. 1981, .releasing water and cutting the city off from its main water source for three weeks. Two other men pleaded guilty to les­ser charges, and one was acquitted. Black was acquitted of purpose­fully committing criminal mischief. -AP 
Connecticut's chief toxicologist says there have been so many reports of product-tampering in recent months that his Hartford staff has had to delay testing of evidence in major criminal cases. There have been more than I 50 unproven com­plaints of tampering in Connecticut since seven people in the Chicago-area died after taking Extra-Strength Tylenol laced with cyanide, said Dr. Abraham Stolman. Only one confirmed tampering case has been uncovered. "This whole mess has greatly interfered with our investigative work," Stolman said, adding that the state has been asked to perform an estimated 1,000 checks vital to criminal investigations in the past two months. -AP 
Officials in Houston agreed to remove religious references from a high school song after a private meeting with the federal judge who declared the lyrics unconstitutional last May. U.S. District Judge John Singleton said he called Tuesday's meeting with administrators of Aldine High School after learning the school had made no effort to comply with his order that the words to the song be removed from a wall and that the song no longer be used official­ly. "They agreed to remove 'Dear God' and 'In Jesus' name we pray' from the song," Singleton said. "When they do, it's no longer a prayer." -AP 
The parents ofan autistic child can't see to have the child sterilized without a judge's approval, the Indiana Court of Ap­peals ruled in a 2-1 decision yesterday. "This case does not involve ordinarv medical treatment or radical surgery immediately neces­sary to preserve the life ofthe child. This operation would irreversib­ly deny to a human being a fundamental right, the right to choose whether to beget a child," the court said. The ruling did not identify the child or the parents. The appeals court held that it was the parents' duty to show their child should be sterilized, rather than the child's duty to show that she shouldn't. "Certainly, a fundamental right is meaningless if the possessor carries the burden of proving the right to exercise it. Affirmative judicial authorization must be obtained for sterilization of the incompetent," the court said. The ruling came in the case of a child who was 12 when her parents decided they wanted her sterilized. A person acting on behalfofthe child filed a request for an injunction to stop the sterilization. -AP 
Gov. Robert D. Orrand the governors of Illinois and Vermont are scheduled to meet Friday with President Reagan, Orr's office announced yesterday from Indianapolis. The group wants to discuss concerns of the states discussed at a governors meeting in Kansas City last month. Orr chairs the Republican Governors As­sociation. Illinois Gov. James R. Thompson is the incomingchairman of the National Governors Association. Vermont Gov. Richard A. Snelling is a former chairman of both associations. The meeting is scheduled for 3 p.m. Friday at the White House, with a news con­ference scheduled in Washington after the meeting. Orr has also scheduled a 4:30p.m. conference call with Indiana reporters at the Statehouse. -AP 
A few snow flurries early today, then becoming mostly sunny. Highs upper 20s to low 30s. Fair tonight and not as cold. Lows in the low to mid 20s. Increasing clouds and a little war­mer tomorrow. 
Thursday, December 9, 1982 -page 2 
Portrait of a young man 

The artist in me, it seems, will not be silenced. 

It's not for lat·k of trying on my part. I've attempted to quiet the artistic rumblings of my never-still heart throughout the passage of mv time. 
I once retreated to the antiseptic world of Erlen­meyer flasks and difkrential equations in a vain effort to muz;.:te the voice within. A career in chemistry lay somewhere down that road of heavy texts and sub­atomic (XIftides. \1om and Dad were happy to arrange my transport down that road. 
Somehow -may Emil torgive me -I couldn't get charged up about tracking an ion through a vacuum. I preferred tracking a symbol through a volume of poetn· 
The laws ofpoetry arc not nearly so immutable as the laws ofscience. Ami an artist's explanation of the universe need satisfy only the artist himself 
:\·ly tlrst attempt to shush tht· artist ended with these realizations, and tlw path of scknce wa.~ the one not taken. A degree in Englbh stands as a shaky testimonial to my failure to comprehend the solidarity of the uni­verse. 
Mother and father were not so pleased to fund the journey in that direction. 

since artists are commonly But peering out from a thought to have great dit~ sted1 penitentiary. a lost tlculty determining the soul tlnds new ways to per­place of origin of their next ceive and en·n the meal. quietest of voices may echo 
And, degree be damned. I, t(>rever in a hollow jail. too, was not so eager to deal To the incarcerated. with that particular pain. drunkards may appear 
After a brief term as a copy noble; a mother may editor (a would-be anist become a goddess; and a who goes about touching up road trip may become a the tapestries of other picaresque. would-be artists), I t(>und Unending reverberations somewhat gainful and some­may, like the Hebrew trum­what permanent employ­pets at Jericho. shake even ment setting type at a small the sturdiest offoundations. business. The artist in me, it seems, 
I sought again to stitlc the will likewise tumble the insistent cry emanating from wa .lb I place around him. the inner depths. A payc­No exactitude of gram­
heck can be a powerful ally in one's attempts to muftle inner cries. Parental protests, too, fade in the face of steady earnings. 
And so, I operated machinery. \'lore correctly, I im­mersed myselfin machinery. I taught metal to behave as I saw tit, and came to enjoy its general reliability and docility. 
Recognizing metal's quality of dependability helped restore lost hopes ofbeing able to fathom the regularity of the universe. 
A distant whisper argut·d against renewed visions of rigid discipline in the universe -and against taxable incomt:. 
Striving mightily to ignore the murmur, I com­manded my metallic minions in the midst of a business run by those on their way to becoming tomorrow's ar­tists. 
Those shiny servant~ never stood a chance against that army ofdreamers. The first indication that my resolve was weakening came in the form of an obscure series of odd riddles 
The Observer 
IJeSi!(JII:.'ditor ...":"..... Deirdre \1 \lurph~ /Jesip.n.-t...sistant .............. ~arJh tl•unillon TyfJe...c•flers .......................... fkggtt' & Tom .'Veu•.<litlilor . .. ....... \lar~ E Wor-.<:lll'h Copyl:.'tlilor... . Jt:ftn:'~ \I. Jlitrnngton B & rl.t~)'OU/. ....................... Ed 1\.onr;u.h Editorials l.c~l'OUI.... Tim '\t·t·l~ Sports Copr Edilru ............ Chn' '\c:t:dJ<..·-. 
VI> /Jar Editor.. ·'""'. H.ulc1 
S.IIC Our Editor .. I ari Bro\\ll 1)'fii.<l . ........................... \Ian lkth l'on<-r Ad /Je,.·iJ!.II.. . ................... \l;1ril~ n L1rkm Pholo,t<rapi.Jel ................ \Jdutd;i I loph.in.... (iuesl AfJjJearaoce.•o ...... Brucl' \\. Oakle~ ]1111 Rincnhou~t·, Tlw Boh~Jt' Twin!'\, \lary Ellt·n (It 111g da~tallc.:t:) of )'l"ah. .and .Jch 
She laup_bs anti ...·iu~s ofA:n,\·er bortlt!,'\, 
of.'ihifJ,'\ til SC!a aut/jester lords 
Herflute aut/ btU1J u•eal'(' lah•s iu ,'\OII_r.:. fortbuse U'bo raist•tbeir t•oice aloug 
The Observer tUSPS 598 920t ,., pc.bltshed Monday lhrough Frtday and on nome tool ball Salurdd ys except dunng exam and vacatton penods The Observer •s pubttshect by the sludents ol Notre Da'Tle and Satnt Marys Col· lege Subscnpttons 'lld y oe purcnased tor $25 per year iSIS per seme;ter) by wrtttng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lndtana 46556 
The Observer 15 a 'ne•noer ol The Associated Press All reproductton ngnts are reserved 
Second class postage pdld at Notre Dame lndtana 46556 

BmceOokley Systems MonO!Jer Inside Thursday 
about Yukon wildlife. What had been a soft undertone became a rampaging moose's call. 
Lumberjacks and artists-to-be alike. however, groaned unappreciatn·dy at this second major failure to cru~h the rebelliou~ din leaping from my soul. 
I suddenly had dozen~ of allies in m\· efrort to calm this uncooperative artistic essence. Artist~. it seem~. cannot always answer only to themselves. 
With renewed vigor. I returned to my mechanical world, dedicating mvself anew to a career of technol­ogy. The ti>lks, by now, had learned to accept whatever career I fell upon. 
I determined to secrete mysdf in a deep ami mighty h>rtres~ ofsubroutines and databases. and that would be an end to it. ~urdy, no artistic yearnings could escape 
~uch a ti>nnidable prison. 
matical construction, no precision of programming logic, no certainty of light's speed through a void can contain the absolute truth spoken by the unbound voice of the artist within. 
An irrational smik 'Yill always play upon my face when the cute blonde, no matter how tacky her pink sweater, crosses my path. An unspoken eulogy and an unshed tear will always await the memory ofpoets who have passed from this sphere. 
The protundity with which a tear may speak and the volume with which a smile may shout are enough to free any artist from the bonds that hold him. 
So, the Muse ha~ won, and the artist will speak in romantic phrases and grand words of the trials and tri­umphs of men. 
If, along the way, a note of regimentation creeps in, forgive me. I have grown accustomed to the artist as a voice in the background. 

The Observer Thursday, December 9, 1982-page 3 

Pakistan President Mohammad Zia ul-Haq takes part in a wreath laying ceremony atthe Tomb ofthe Unknown Soldier Tues­day at Arlington National Cemetary. Zia was in Washington to discuss economic issues and the problem ofAfghan refugees in Pakistan with President Reagan. Reagan bas pledged 13.2 billion in aid to the country over the nextfive years. (AP Photo). 
said Lombardo. The :'IJUTN will give Notre Dame the chance to telecast a conference to several locations in the country, thus saving additional
. . . Manatt 
trips for interested conferees. Lombardo also hopes the NUTN 
continuetlfrompage I 
Reagan administration "has mis­managed the economy so damn bad­ly." 
Manatt pointed to the growing federal deficit to illustrate his point. He noted that two years ago Reagan Campaign Manager Senator Paul Laxalt of Nevada had criticized 

Senate
I I I 
continuedfrom page I 
seek this aid. 
In regard to cable television. the majority of the Faculty Senate reacted with incredulity at the thought of "University subsidized HBO." Such an addition, they said, would not be condusive to studying. 
Professor Donald Barrett dis­cussed compensation reports, suggesting three new approaches which would benefit the faculty. 
First, he discussed the need for in­vestment in faculty salaries and com­pensations. Then, Barrett stated that Notre Dame should commit itself to giving a minimum cost of living in­crease. Third, he suggested appoint· ment of an annual ad hoc faculty fringe benefit committee. 
Due to a large amount of impor­tant material. the Faculty Senate will resume discussion of these and other topic:-; such as faculty renewal and the PACE report in its January meeting. 
Observer 
announces promotions 
The Observer News Department is 
pleased to announce the following 
promotions. Sophomore Kathleen 
Doyle will assume the position ofAs­
sistant News Editor. Sophomore 
Anne :\1onastyrski will be a Senior 
Staff Reporter. Junior Joe lncardona 
and freshmen Tom Mowle and Pat 
Sain will all assume the position of Staff Reporter. 
President Carter's projected S30 bil­lion deficit. The Reagan administra­tion faces a s150 billion deficit for this year, he noted. 
Laxalt will assume the post of Republican National Committee Chairman in January. "I'm going to have a lot of fun with Laxalt and the Reagan deficit this year," Manatt said. 
The committee chairman charac­terized the Reagan economic plan as a "shift of resources from working people to the privileged people of America," explaining that cuts in so­cial programs have severely affected the elderly and minorities. 
"In this Christmas season Scrooge may be living in the Office of Management and Budget and the White House," he said. 
:\1anatt said a series of party caucuses on economic policies is scheduled to begin tomorrow on Capitol Hill, with legislation set to appear in February. 
One party proposal centers around a national Economic Cooperation Council. a combina­tion of labor. business and govern­ment leaders that would concentrate on making American in· dustries more competitive with their counterparts in Western 

'Doesn'tserve any purpose' 



Engineering Science phased out 
ByJEFF HARRINGTON 1985, according to Dean of SeniorStaffReporter Engineering Roger Schmitz. "The program doesn't serve aoy purpose at all anymore," said 
Labelled as "a program which has 
Schmitz. "It only serves to house stu­
outlived its ust:fulness." the 
dents (in engineering) who don't 
Engineering Science curriculum 
know what they want." 

will be phased out by the spring of 
The Academic Council voted for 
Audiovisual network links ND, U.S. schools 
By PAM RICHARDSON America." StaffReporter The NUTN productions will be shown in any one of the seminar 
With the installation of the Na­rooms at the CCE, depending on the tional University Teleconference number of students registered, said Network, completed last week at the Dr. Peter ). Lombardo, conference Center for Continuing Education, coordinator for the CCE. Registra· Notre Dame students will soon have tion will be required to attend all the opportunity to view a variety of productions, he added. educational programs produced by "It will be an experimental year to colleges across the nation. see if the network itself will work," 
Through the efforts of the CCE said Lombardo. After an evaluation and television station WNDU, the of NUTN, he will be able to two-way audio/one-way video sys­determine what steps will be taken tem will telecast via a closed circuit in the future. satellite set up at WNDU, its first He hopes to use it in the CCE's production on January 28. The title own conferences held throughout of the program is "Productivity in the year, in order to expand them. 
"Travel is very expensive today," 
Europe and japan. will help to continue the education 
In addition to ·economic issues, of Notre Dame alumni, noting that Manatt listed social justice concerns "It's a natural way to reach them." such as equal rights for women, con­Lombardo is very hopeful that the tinued efforts in desegregation, and network will work and "be very labor rights as points of departure beneficial to the University." He between the two major national feels that with the help of WNDU's parties. ' technology and the willingness of 
Looking to the future, Manatt said students to participate, it will be. 
that Senator Edward Kennedy's Lombardo said the NUTN is a 
recent withdrawal from the 198-1 "significant step for Notre Dame to 
Presidential race "has taken some of take." 
the edge offofthe race" for the party Last :\1arch -1~ universities met in 
nomination. Kansas City to take the initial steps in 
He declared that "we've got lots of creating a teleconferencing network talent for the presidency and the geared toward furthering the educa­campaign in 198-1." tion of people all over tile l 'nited 
:\lanatt said that through rebuild­States. :'llotre Dame was one of the ing efforts the Democrati~ party will universities involved in the initial be a forward-looking organization, planning stages of :'Ill TN. and that creativitY is the key to Democratic success i:1 198-1 and 
the phase-out last week upon Schmitz's recommendation. 
Schmitz noted that the original purpose of an engineering science ( ES) degree was to offer a "more flexible" curriculum to engineering students who wanted a broader background in science and the humanities. Undecided students could "tailor-make a program to suit their interests." 
He conceded, however, that an Engineering Science curriculum is now "discouraged" by the depart· ment since the same diverse options are available with electives in anoth· er engineering program. 
"Its best purpose was served a decade or more ago. Then the other (engineering) programs didn't con­tain a fundamental basis (in humanities), but now they do." 
Schmitz elaborated that the ES de­gree was formerly used "to prepare students for graduate school. The other engineering programs taught students the practical aspects but not the basics." 
"Eventually, the engineering department dissolved to the point where all programs prepared stu· dents for advancements," he said. 
With only 26 degrees conferred in the past ten years and just three stu­dents currently enrolled, the Engineering Science program has "definitely suffered" from a lack of interest, said Schmitz. 
He listed several reasons for the phase-out, including the fact that "engineeringscience is not easily ac­creditable (upon graduation) be­cause ofits lack ofstructure." 
"With no goals or integration of classes ... there is the disadvantage of an engineering degree which is not accredited." 
Considering the lack of interest, Schmitz said he felt that elimination of the ES curriculum is "not a very big move," but rather, "almost ob· vious." 
"Nothing is lost to the students in the change. There is no shift of faculty or budgetary changes in· volved." 
The only change brought about by the phase-out. according to Schmitz, is that "the undecided per­son will now have to select a specitk program treshman year, although he will still have the option to change." 


tlancy

+The No re Dame Student Union presents: +
•: Ballroom Dance:• 
+ in the Chautauqua Ballroom + : Friday Dec. 10 : 
and 

+ e 8:30-9:30 Dan O'Day Dance • : Studio gives Lessons : 
Sluggo?: e 9:30-12:30 Semi-Formal Dance: +$3 per couple • :$2 each Tickets on sale at the Student Union: 

~•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••4 
Depending on the outcome 
~-~~~~~--~-~~~~~~~--~~~, 
) Teachers Needed!!!! ~ 


of the next 

~Get Involved in ND-SMC ~ \ Student Union's ~ Observer Cartoon Contest, 
\ . ~ 

you could!

~ Free Univers1ty ~ ~~~an opportunity to share your interests''~ ~ Sign up in the S.U. office ) Watch for details ... 
i · . · (2nd F-loor La Fortune) · l 
~ ......... ~~·~~........ ..,................................,..~~~· .......~....,......,..~......... ~J 
beyond. 
"The future can bt: ours not by looking backward. but by letting creativity come to the fore in leading the party," he said. 
Do you want to 
:\lanatt's talk was part ofthe :'llotre Dame Student t:nion Academic Commission's Fall lecture series, which concludes with a lecture b) 
spend lunch with
political columnist Richard Reeves tonight at 8 in the Library 
Auditorium. 

The Observer Thursday, December 9, 1982 -page 4 

men Distinguished Achieuement Award. From left to right are Lowell Steward, BillEllis, and Bill Melton. (AP Photo). 
in which she waspresented with the Tuskegee Air­
"He was calm throughout," said
continuedfrom page 1 
Komarow. "The discussions were ferent ways on automatic." unfocused, but his pamphlet was 
A reporter was sent, at the mari's specific. He demanded 'a national request, to receive demands. They dialogue on the nuclear weapons were printed in a leaflet which in­question as the first order of busi­sisted upon "a national dialogue on ness on an agenda ofevery organiza­the nuclear weapons question." tion in the U.S.A. Churches, 
The man, dressed in a blue businesses, fraternal, unions, sports, jumpsuit and wearing a motorcycle etc., no association excepted."' helmet that concealed his face, had Komarow said the man specified paced around the van, holding the that "Local, state and national radio control device. He was not wil­elected bodies and bureaucracies ling to talk with police, but insisted must comply. National and local that an unmarried reporter be sent. media must carry these discussions Associated Press writer Steve (for nuclear banning) daily." Komarow was chosen and made five Explosives experts said if 1,000 trips up the slope, waving a white pounds of dynamite were handkerchiefof truce. detonated, a crater I 00 feet deep 
~-----~iiiiburghClub _____t 
ff t f  Si&n·vpa for Christmas Break Bua Sunday, Dec.12at 7pm Larortuae Little'lheatre BuHawillltave KD (CCI)aad SIIC (Holy Cr01s) Tues., Dec. Zlat Spm Wed., Dec. 21 at Spm  ff t f  
A  Buaes will return to •DISMC from Pittsburgh Greyhound Terminal  '  
' f  Mon.,Jaa. 10 at lpm Round Trip $tS  One Way  $29  1  
f A  First Come First Served Payment must be made in full at time of reservation •oREPUKDS Questions call Briaa-1743  ' A  

·~~~~~~.._..-.~~~~----..-..~~~· 
"Papa & Mama Do The Cooking" 
Francesco's Famiglia 277-6155 Restaurant 277-6156 
featuring 

FOUR SEASONS PIZZA 
The Original Southern Recipe Lasagna, Home-made Spaghetti, All V · t. f Sandwiches 
h. k Ca . . V Ip . . ane res o
C rc en ccraton, ea armrgrana 
(Francesco waschejfor Holy Cross Fathersfor 21yrs.) 
1636 N. Ironwood 
~------·'WE DELIVER"---------1 
"----Proprietor: Francesco Catanzariti____ 
Dine among the antiques and enjoy our view of the new downtown! 
Reservations Appreciated 234-9000 121 South Niles South Bend 
Fear ofMafia caused man to shoot mayor 
PLYMOLITII, Ind. ( AP) -fear that LaPorte MayOi' A.J. Rumely had Matla connections and might harm his family prompted Harold W. Lang to attack the mayor and his wife in their home, Lang said in a police video tape played at his murder trial yesterday. 
"I felt it was a matter of life or death -my mother's survival. my brother's survival," Lang told inves­tigators in the taped e<)nfession made two days after the Rumelys were attacked last May. "I was the only person who could protect them." 
Lang, .)0, has pleaded innocent by reason of insanity to two counts of murder and one count of burglary. The state is seeking the death pen_alty. 
Mrs. Rumely, 68, died immediate­ly after the attack early on May 31. Rumely, 71, died from complica­tions of gunshot wounds on Thanksgiving Day in a South Bend hospital. 
• • • Monument 
would be dug at the base of the monument, but only moderate structural damage would result. However, hundreds of pieces of shrapnel would be thrown up to I,800 feet away and the blast would be strong enough to break windows in the White House 2,000 feet away. 
Scores of tourists managed to get out when the siege started. 
Nearby government buildings were emptied; thousands of employees were sent home. Since the White House was in shrapnel range. President Reagan was asked to ~tay on the side facing away, toward Pennsvlvania Avenue. 
"It's up to the press, it's up to the 
media," the man said. "They have 
been pretending that we are not 
threatened every day of our lives 
with annihilation. And whether by 
collusion or otherwise they refuse 
to give the real information about 
the precarious situation the world 
finds itself in." 
Dade County police otticer Tim Davis said Mayer, 66, was arrested in Dade County in October 1979 on charges of illegally distributing religious material. 
"Mr. Maver has a past from all over the count.ry, including arrests for prowling, assault and battery, nar­cotics trafficking, trespassing after 





Jlnlt 
Handcrafted Items Dewrative Aaessories 


"I was afraid that (Alex) Toth -or Rumely or both were into ~ome kind of drug ring. maybe had mob con· nections. I just thdn't know," Lang said in the tape. 
The prosecution maintains Lang took out his frustrations on Rumely and his wife when he lost his job at the city's sewage treatment plant. 
Lang got into a fight with Toth, hb supervisor at the plant, last April Lang maintins he suffered a back in· jury in the tight. took a few days sick leave and learned he had heen tired when he returned w work. Toth, who testitled last week, said Lang quit. Lang said Toth lied but the mayor ignored his claim. 
"I was afraid for my family," Lang said in the tape, made in the early hours ofjune 2 after several hours of questioning by two policemen, LaPorte Police Capt. Roger Farley and Sgt. Arlen Boyd of the Indiana State Police. 
"The only reason any sane person would have stonewalled or taken the attitudes he ( Rumely) had or allowed Toth to take them, was, you know, he must be connected with the Mafia or a drug ring," Lang said in a calm, even voice. "I felt we could be killed at any minute." 
The two-hour, black and white video tape culminated testimony in Marshall Superior Court yesterday by the two policemen on Lang's in­terrogation and confession. 
At the end of the video tape, Lang was asked ifhe thought he was sane. 
"Yes, maybe overly scared or depressed sometimes, but basically sane," Lang said. 
warning, and distributing religious material," said Davis. An officer who did not want to be identified, said Mayer had been demonstrating in front of the White House against nuclear weapons, for weeks. For six to eight weeks he was a guest in a downtown motel where a desk clerk called him "Pops." 
.. . Ministry 
continuedfrom page I 

personal reflection "one of the most concrete things that a person can do in this challenging time for the Church, and difficult time for the country." Baxter also feels that 
"conscientious objection should be brought into the forum as a moral equivalent with abortion." 
The majority of COs choose this route "not so much because they are afraid of bt'ing killed, but because they are afraid to kill," according to Baxter. This belief is accompanied by a feeling on the part of the CO that although he cannot do some­thing for the state that violates his conscience, he is looking for an al­ternative way to serve the state with­out having to fight in a war. 
According to a recent issue ofThe Christian Century, the job al­tematives for COs who win their claim "are generally social service in nature, with low pay, and far away from the community in which the COs live." 
The remoteness of the possibile military service often puts the potential CO at a disadvantage. Al­though more than forty possible COs have approached Campus Min­istry, and national trends indicate an increase in the number ofconscien­tious objectors, Baxter notes that "the question does not weight heavi-
Artwork Toys Games Brass (11Jslal Dolls Pewter 

Holiday Hours 
su~day 1-5 Mon -Sat 1 0-9 
219-232-8488 
"Gifts that reflect your good taste." 
Petoskey • Naples L.aJolla • South Bend 

The East Ba~k Emporium Buildi~g 
1~1 S Niles Ave a! Jefferson 

ly on most persons' minds because there is no immediate danger of a draft." 
Campus Ministry's counseling for COs emphasizes the idea of preparedness. "There is no doubt in my mind," believes Baxter. "that many people will regret having not declared being a CO should a draft occur." 
For many Americans who morally or religiously are opposed to military service, the choice to oppose war is not an easy decision. The possibility of ostracism from society, or even conflict within one's family looms very largely in the mind of a person considering conscientious objection. Campus Ministry's service for COs attempts to help guide students who are ex­periencing the self-doubts that often accompany these conflicts. 

Erratum 
In Tuesday's paper, The Observer incorrect()! reported the date that applications for the Center for So· cia/ Concen1s' Seminar would be made twailah/e. Applications were available starting yesterday at the Center and are duejan. 25, 1983. 
Saint Mary's music dept.sponsors concerts 
The Department ol \lu~te at Saint \lary's is sponsoring three perfor­mances this week and rKxt. Coocert day~. times and locations follow: 
CONCERT  DAY  TIME  LOCATION  
Wind Ensemble  Today  12:~0  Little Thcatre  
Winter Concert  p.m.  
Lessons and Carob  Sundav  Mp.m.  Church of Loretto  
(Choir' and Chamhn  
Singer')  
Wind 1-.nsemble  Tue~da,·  12:.~0  Rt·inbeaux Room,  
Christmas Concert  p.m.  LeMans Hali  

~-~ -~­
The Observer Thursday, December 9, 1982-page 5 

MXpr~duction runs into Senate criticistn 

WASHINGTON (AP) The Reagan administration, stung by House rejection of production plans for the MX missile, ran into stiff criticism in the Senate yesterday on its proposal to bunch the deadly nuclear missiles together in Wyoming. 
"The public is getting the idea the whole thing is a boondoggle," Sen. Henry M. Jackson, D-Wash., one of the Pentagon's staunchest allies in Congress, told Secretary of Defense Caspar Weinberger. 
"I don't think you realize the de­gree of trouble the MX basing mode is in now," Sen. Sam Nunn, D-Ga., a strong supporter of military spend­ing, said as the Senate Armed Services Committee began hearings. 
Sen. William Cohen, R-Maine, told Weinberger that a "political deci­sion" had apparently been made to cancel the basing plan favored by former President Carter in favor of "a basing mode that is more environ­mentally acceptable but may not be technically feasible." 
Sen. Howard Cannon, D-Nev., winding up his service in the lame­duck session following his defeat in the November election, said he strongly supported the MX but not necessarily the so-called "dense pack" plan for deployment near Warren Air Force Base, Wyo. 
Weinberger defended the 
feasibility of the plan, which is 
designed to cluster the missiles so 
closely that in the event of a Sovet 
attack the first exploding enemy 
warhead would destroy or cripple 
the rest ofthe enemy's warheads in a 
phenomenon known as "fratricide." 
He said Tuesday's 245-176 House vote to delete S988 million for the first five missiles -if sustained by the Senate -would amount to "telling the world we are disarming unilaterally." 
In a television interview, the defense secretary conceded that"... some way we have not yet been able to convey to the American people or to the Congress the really serious nature, the growing nature of the peril" from the rapid Soviet arms buildup. 
Gen. John W. Vessey Jr., chairman 
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, testified 
that three of the four joint chiefs 
originally opposed the "dense pack" 
plan, but one of those said he would 
agree to it if the plan would help 
with arms control efforts. The ad­
ministration argues that a deployed 
MX missile puts the United States in 
a stronger position for arms control 
talks. 
Edward L. Rowny, special repre­
sentative for arms control negotia­
tions, said the MX was not merely a 
"bargaining chip," adding, "We need 
it for oursecurity, but once we get it, 
it does give us leverage." 
President Reagan vowed after the 
vote to "do everything I can to take 
this case to the country." 
Senate Majority Leader Howard H. 
Baker Jr., R-Tenn., said he expects 
the bill with the MX funds to be 
brought up in the Senate next week. 
"We're somewhat stronger over 
here," said Baker, an MX supporter. 
Sen. John Stennis, D-Miss.. the 
ranking Democrat on the Armed 
Services Committee, also supported 
the adminbtration, which has 
dubbed the missile -originally 
called MX for "missile experimen­
tal" -the Peacekeeper. 
"It makes no difference what you 
call it, if the Congress is not going to 
back the president in this kind offar­
reaching decision. we are in a bad 
fix,'' Stennis said. 
Sen. John Tower, R-Tex.. the com­
mittee chairman, called the House 
vote "surprising and disappointing" 
and said, "At no time in my memory 
has the Congress treated a major na­
tional security program proposed by 
'hte president in such a cavalier fas­
hion." 
Sen. Bob Dole, R-Kan., said in a 
television interview that the House 
vote "clearly indicates defense will 
not go unscathed this year." 

The Hou~e, meanwhile, neared a vote on the S231.6 billion military spending bill from which the MX funds were cut. The bill still con­tained about S2.4 billion in research and development funds for the missile. Rep. joseph B. Addabbo. D­N.Y.. chairman of the House Ap­propnauons subcommittee on defense, proposed to cut this to S I billion but said he was not optimis­tic. 
The new plan is the opposite of the Carter proposal: instead ofbeing moved around a wide area, the missiles would be huddled together for protection. 
White House strategists said they were working on a plan to assure victory for the MX in the Republican-controlled Senate. This would send the issue to a House­Senate conference committee. Sen. Ted Stevens, R-Alaska, chairman of the Senate Appropriations subcom­mittee on defense, has said he doubts the conferees could agree. 
White House spokesman Larry Speakes predicted the MX produc­tion funds would fare better in the 
Freshman Gretchen Froehlke (left) and sopho­Walsh/Sorin spaghetti dinner held last night in 
Senate, but conceded the vote could 
more jeanine Gozdecki, of Walsh Hall keep an the dorm' s south lounge. (Photo by Melinda Hop­

be close. 

e:J'e on thepasta in preparationfor the5thannual kim) 
Stillonlysemi -conscious 
Heart patient taken off sedatives 
SALTLAKEClTY(AP) -Doctors 
removed artificial heart recipient 
Barney Clark from sedatives and 
nursed him slowly back to con­
sciousness yesterday, guarding 
:.gainst a recurrence of the seizures 
that put him back on the critical list. 
Clark opened his eyes early yes­
terday morning and was moving his 
arms and legs but was only semi­
conscious, said John Dwan, Univer­
sity of Utah Medical Center 
spokesman. 

"There's nothing going on now 
that would suggest he wouldn't 
make it,' said Dr. Chase Peterson, 
university vice president ti:>r health 
sciences. 

Dwan said the 61-year-old retired 
dentist, who received the world's 
first permanent mechnical heart in 
surgery that began last Wednesday 
night, was "very stable with gradual 
improvement in responsiveness." 
Committee 
approves 

taxhike 

WASHINGTON (AP) The 
Senate Finance Committee, without 
so much as a whimper of objection, 
tentatively approved yesterday a 
nickel-a-gallon increase in the 
federal gasoline tax to finance a mul­
tibillion dollar program of highway 
and mass transit improvement. 

There was little debate, no op­
position and not even a formal vote 
on the tax increase as the panel 
acted before moving to other, more 
controversial parts ofthe bill. 

The full House approved the in­
crease in the tax, currently four 
cents a gallon, 262-1-l), early rues­
day. GOP leader Howard Haker of 
Tennessee has predicted the Senate 
will follow ~uit later this week, al­
though opponents are threatening a 
tllibuster in a bid to defeat it. 

The tax would raise an estimated 
SS. '; billion a year. money that sup­
porters say would create I~o,ooo 
jobs in the construction industry at a 
time when national unemployment 
stands at a -tO-year high. 

About St.4 billion would go to 
highway and bridge work, while the 
remainder would be earmarked for 
mass transit construction. 
During the night, Clark was removed from the sedati\'es which kept him unconscious in the hours after the seizures Tuesday morning. 
Doctors expected him to regain full consciousness today or tomor­row as the sedatives leave his sys­tem, Dwan said. 
Dr. Lyle Joyce said Clark seemed to be responding to treatment to correct a chemical imbalance thought to have caused the short, but intense seizures. Dwan said doc­tors would know the treatment was working if there were no more 
seizures as Clark wakes up. 
"The neurologist says the longer we go without any seizures, the bet­ter he is," Dwan said. As a precau­tion, he added, "they're bringing him out (ofsedation) very slowly." 
He said a tape of Handel's ":\1essiah," which Clark had enjoyed prior to the seizures, was again playing in Clark's intensive-care unit room. 
His treatment included continued 
rest, the seizure-suppressing 
medication Dilantin and a stomach 
tube~fed diet of nutrients designed 
to balance lt:\'els of minerals, salts 
and sugars in Clark\ metabolic sys­
tem~ 
The nutrients have been described as resembling a thin puree. Peterson said they ha\·e the nutritional equi,·alent of whipped carrots and "old-fashioned" chicken soup. 

"\X'e now arc entering a period, and a relatin:ly long period they hope, of wait and see," Dwan said. Doctors maintain the polyurethane heart is working tine and believe it did not cause the seizures. 
Clark was near death from degenerative heart disease when he received the Jarvik-7 heart during seven hours of surgery ending last Thursday morning. The Seattle-area resident, whose plastic organ is tet­hered to a bulky drive system, is the first human to have a permanent mechanical heart. 
rr;;v~ Ai~o;i Fre~ 1 
f Going home on Break? f 
f we have vehicles going to II several points across thE U.S.f 
Call WILSON DRIVEAWAY ft Bristol,lndiana
t 674-6794 t t t 
·································~ 
: Celebrate Christmas at the Nazz : : . Saturday, Decoll qoJQ-? : 
0 0
• Featunng: 
• 

: · * ffiatt Feeney *Betsy Quinn : :•* Bob O'Donnell * John Foryt 'It: : *Greg Sobkowski : :Hot chocolate and Cookies will be provided: 
)ust when you thoughtyou hod to walk home ... 


Washington. DC Club Christmas Bus Sign-ups 
Sunday. Dec. 12 7 • 8 pm Lafortune 
,_/\(1 S70·00 Round-trip'li;'L~~ you must pay to reserve a seat! 

RESTAURANT 
15 REASONS: 
Broiled Seafood Ptatter Charbroiled Halibut Steak Charbroiled Salmon Shrimp De Johnge Charbroiled Swordfish Walleye Pike Red Snapper Trout Ala Mer 
1:'. 

Stuffed Flounder New Engtano Scrod Rock Lobster Pan Fried Rainbow Trout Gulf Coast Shrimp Stuffed Shrimp Pan Fried Frog Legs , 


5:30 Nightly All D1y Sund1y 
100 Center Complex 700 L.W.W., MllhiWIU 259-9925 

-~---~--~-----------­

Business & Techn01ogy_rh_ursd_ay,D_ecer._nber_9,1_982_Pa_ge6 
A South Bend Democrat called fr>r a legislative forecast to keep the st..tte out ofa huge budget debt in the future. Currently, Hou~e Republican~ and Democrats are mulling over bills that would ht:"lp make up the ~tate's projected S452.1 mil­lion deficit. The House met briefly ye~terday to officially receive two bills which raise the state income and sales taxe~ and rearrange the way the state pays some of its bilb. The House also voted without opposition to waive the rules to allow amendments to be considered today, rather than waiting the two days spelled out in House proce­dure. The House Wavs and \1eans Committee forwarded the measures to the House after their panel took testimony and voted Tuesday. Gov. Robert D. Orr called the Legislature into special ses­sion .\1onday to cope with the ~tate's projected ddlcit. -AP 
Marketing' Update 
The Polish government, strapped for cash, is minting $20 million ofgold and silver coins stamped with the face of Pope John Paul II -a unique joint venture of Communism, Capitalism, and CatholiCism. The coins will be sold on world markets at a premium over their metallic content. -L.A. Times 
Syndicate 


Wall Street Update 
The stock market took a tumble yesterday in a late selloff that hit video-game stocb espeCially hard. The drop came after Warner Communicttions estimated lower fourth quarter profits, citing disappointing sales of Atari game <.art ridges and coin­operated games. The Dow Jones average of .~0 industrials, up more than 4 points going into the last hour of trading, tinished with a 9.85 loss at I ,0-t ~.09. Earlier in the day, the average ri1ade its second un­successful hid in as many days to ~urpass the record closing high of 1,065.49 it reached on :'\ov. 5. Warner's announcement crossed financial ~ews wires shortly after 5 p.m. Trading in the company's stock was halted shortly thereafter on the :\ew York Stock Exchange at 51. 5, down l from Tuesday. Among other leading bctors in the video game market, Coleco fellS to 5H.~SH and \lattel dropped 2.75 to 2-t. Pressure on the video-game issue~ appeared to spread, meanwhile, to stocks clo~ely identitied with the personal computer business. Commodore International fell 9."'S to ~-I. S; Tandy 5.25 to 
56.5; Texas Instruments S ~-; to I-16, and Digital Equipment 5. 5 to I 09. Declines slightly outnumbered ad\·ances in the overall count on the :'I.'YSE, and the exchange's composite index dropped .-10 to 
81.75. Standard & poor·~ index of ·100 industriab tell .99 to 15H.67, and S&P'~ SOO-stock composite index was down<) I a, 111.81. At the American Stock b;.change, the market value itdex ~lipped .21 to 
358.70. The :\ASDAQ composite index for the mer-the-counter market closed at 2-10.70, up .OS -AP 
CALL TODAY FOR GUARANTEED RESERVATIONS 
Clip and save this schedule for easy travel planning! 
To O'Hare From O'Hare 
LEAVE This Col This Col. ARRIVE NOTRE Chicago Chrcago NOTRE DAME Tome 
Time DAME BUS ARRIVE LEAVE BUS SHELTER O'HARE O'HARE SHELTER 
4:30a.m. 6:10a.m. 8:30a.m. 12:00 p.m. 6:30a.m. 8:15a.m. 10:30 a.m. 2:00p.m. 8:30a.m. 10:15 a.m. 12:30 p.m. 4:00p.m. 10:30 a.m. 12:15 p.m. 2:30p.m. 6:00p.m. 12:30 p.m. 2:15p.m. 4:30p.m. 8:00p.m. 2:30p.m. 4:15p.m. 6:30p.m. 10:00 p.m. 4:30p.m. 6:15p.m. 8:30p.m. 12:00 a.m. 6:30p.m. 8:15p.m. 11:00 p.m. 2:30a.m. 
SOUTH BEND TIMES UNLESS OTHERWISE INDICATED. EFFECTIVE 10/31 J82. GALL FOR COMPLETE LIST OF PICKUP POINTS & TIMES. 
FOR RESERVATIONS 
(119) 155-3068 
OR CALL YOUR 
TRAVEL AGENT. 
~ 
A billion miles away 





Halley's colllet sw-ings into view-
Discover News Service 

Halley's comet swings into view . . . Early on the morning of Oct. 16, astronomers David jewitt and G. Edward Danielson ofCaltech, · using the 200-inch telescope at Palomar Observatory, recorded a faint speck of light drifting through 
the constellation Canis Minor. 

They thus became the first 
astronomers to confirm the return 
of Halley's comet, which is heading 
back toward the sun after a 6-billion­
mile odyssey through the frozen 
reaches ofthe solar system. 

The comet, which comes round 
every 76 years, is still 140 million 
miles beyond Saturn and not due to 
pass by the earth until early 1986. 

In the past t1ve years, aided by the 
calculations of Don Yeomans of Cal­
tech'sJet Propulsion Laboratory, vir­tually every large observatory in the world has spent some time scanning Canis Minor for the comet. 
But even though they knew where to look, astronomers had a hard time finding the tiny iceball ­it is still more than a billion miles away. 
Jewitt and Danielson succeeded by fitting the mighty Palomar tele­scope with a charge-coupled device -a wafer of silicon that is about 50 times as sensitive to light as photo­graphic tllm. 
The two Caltech astronomers think they first detected the comet in September, but but it passed in front of a bright star -which over­whelmed its image -before its or­bit could be confirmed. 
On Oct. 16 the comet was in a clearer part of the sky, and by making a series of six-minute ex-

Halle)'"s CoJI/el, circled, is sbou'll as detected h)• l/Sironomers at the Califomia fllslilu/e of Tec!JIIofo,"y on Oclohr /6 through an advanced eleclnmic de/ector S)'sielll and tbe 200-incb Hale tele­scope at Pa/OJIIllr Ohserualor)'. lbe insli/u/e said !be discovery marks theji"rsl de/eelion oftbe con1e1 on its current approacb to the sun. (AP Pbo/o) 
posures the astronomers could ojetect its movement against the background of stars. Danielson says, "It's 50 million times fainter than can be seen by eye." 
Because the earth will be in an un­favorable viewing position in its or­bit around the sun, the comet will not be nearly as spectacular to the naked eye this time as it was during i.ts last visit, in 1910. Far better views will be provided by an armada of spacecraft scheduled to meet the comet in early 1986. 
Unmanned cometary probes are planned bv the Soviet Union and France, the European Space Agency .andJapan, and astronauts aboard the :space shuttle may watch from a dis­tance. 
Halley's comet will not be the on­ly one to be visited by spacecraft in the near future. NASA, which could not find the money to send its own Halley probe, has decided to mount a bargain-basement mission to Com­et Giacobini-Zinner. which will ap­proach the sun in 1985. 
The spacecraft chosen for the 
mission is the third International 
Sun Earth Explorer (!SEE 3), which 
has been orbiting the sun about half 
a million mile~ ahead of the earth 
since 1978 to study particles stream­
ing from the sun. 
Next year, controllers at the God­
dard Space Flight Center will swing 
!SEE 3 close to the moon, allowing 
lunar gravity to detlect the craft into 
a trajectory that will take it 4!i mil­
lion miles out to Comet Giacobini­
Zinner. 

The probe is expected to pass 
through the comet's tail on Sept. 11, 
1985, about 2,000 miles from the 
nucleus. Although ISEE 3 carries no 
cameras, its instruments should :send back data on conditions in the tail. 
Los Angelt• . .; Times 5)•mlicute 
Possible cancer medicine 
Drug reverses sickle--cell anemia 
BOSTON (AP) -An experimen­
tal drug will reverse the major cause 
of sickle cell anemia, an important 
killer of black Americans, by turning on genes that have been dormant since birth, a study shows. 
The treatment is believed to be science's first successful attempt to control the output of specific genes in humans. One expert said it openi a promising new approach to treat­ing disease. 
"It signitkantly reduced the ten­dency of sickled cells to form." said Dr. Arthur W. Nienhuis, one of the researchers. "There was an increase in the number of normal cells." 
The drug, called 'i-azacytidine, has also been extensively tested as a possible cancer medicine, but it is not yet on the market. The resear­chers said much more study of its long-term dfects is needed beli>re it could be routinely prescribed for sickle cell anemia or other blood diseases. 
The scientists used the drug in 
adults to activate the genes that .or­
dinarily oversee the production of 
hemoglobin before birth. 

The treatment was tested by doc­tors from the National 1-leart, Lung and Blood Institute in Bethesda, Md., and a report on the work was published in today's New England J~>urnal of \kdicine. 
The doctors used the drug on two people with sickle cell disea~e and three with thalassemia, a blood dis­order common among .\1editer­ranean and Southeast Asian people. 
Both deadly diseases result from defects in the genes that make beta­globin, which combines with anoth­er protein to form hemoglobin, the substance that carries oxygen and makes the blood red. 
While developing in the womb, human fetuses produce a similar substance called gamma-globin which has a different set of genes. Normally, the fetal genes shut off at birth and the adult genes take over. 
Hut the adult genes fail to work in victims of the two blood diseases. Those with sickle cell produce an abnormal form of hemoglobin that makes red blood cells with a sickle shape and causes the blood oxygen level to fall. Thalassemia results when the body produces too little hemoglobin 
The treatment was described as "a major new step" by Dr. Edward ]. BenzJr. ofYale Medical School, who wrote an accompanying editorial in the journal. 
But he wrote that its importance "does not rest solely on the fate of this particular drug as a possible 'magic bullet' for these disorders." Instead, the work '"proves that detailed knowledge about the molecular physiology of individual genes allows the development of promising new ways to treat disease." 
Sickle cell anemia occurs almost entirely among black people. Its vic­tims in the l nited States number about 2~.000. 


Kokomo sIJ;fotorola has AMstet·eo lead 
WASHI:'-JGTO:'-J (AP) -Officials of Motorola Inc. are hailing Kokomo, Ind., oftkials of the Delco Electronics Division ti>r urging the General Motors Corp. to adopt an A,\1 stereo radio system developed by :V\otorola for its cars. 
Motorola officials have said the move could shorten their competi­tion with three other AM stereo designers who have been vying for the acceptance of broadcasters. 
Besides \\otorola, the Harris Corp., the .'vlagnavox Consumer Electronics Corp.. and Kahn Com­munications Inc. have each developed a transmi~sion system 1chat allows A\1 radio statio. broadcast in stereo, ju~t a~ F',J radio stations do. All t()Ur systems are in­compatible, however, meaning that a radio built fi>r one will not play the stereo signal ofanother 
The result ha~ been widespread confusion among broadca~ters, many of whom want de~peratel~ to begin broadca~ting in stereo but who are not willing to bm· a ··)·stem until they know which will become the market ~tandard. 
The decision, the tir~t by a major manufacturer of car radios, was dis­clo~ed late Tuesday In Delco offi­ciab in Kokomo. 
Thursday, December 9, 1982 -page 7




Editorials 
Question of responsibility never fades 
A few days ago I was skimming through the business section ofa newspaper from "the city that works." Set amidst the myriad of stock reports was the picture of an infant above which were printed the words; "We're all 

Karen McCloskey 

The Eastern Edge 

created equal. After that, baby, you're on your 
own." 
The pointednes~ of the statement brought to mind various events of recent weeks. Among these was the continued press coverage of Mary Cunningham and Bill Agee, the corporate "whiz kids" who are proving that a married couple can be a highly success­ful business team. 
It is interesting to note that in a time when roles are being examined more closely than ever before. we hear a good deal of talk around campus about the Notre Dame stu­dent's "responsibility." This responsibility ap­parently entails the student's action toward improving conditions in our le!>s-than-perfect world. 
Yet, it often seems that we are too busy to take that responsible action. We are caught up in the decision-making process ofsrudent life. As the semester draws to a dose. it becomes apparent that the choices we make are, indeed, important one~. They will affect our careers and our impact on the world. 
But there is no reason to measure our 

obligation solely in terms of our future ac­tions. There are choices which we make daily that have just as important an affect on the world. 
Speaking in terms of role playing, we need to look at the positions to which we delegate human beings. In the now-disrupted realm of role assignments, there is room for con­structive action. 
It would be good to examine our current role models to determine if they help each person to develop his or her talents. After all, roles are really not benet1cial if they do not lead us to a fuller, more involved life. 
We need to examine what limits we place on our actions. It is important to notice whether we restrict ourselve~ on the basis of our preconceived ideas or if our actions are really freely chosen. 
This judgment could also extend to our out­look on other people. Do our opinions of others require their conformity to our ideals? 
Today we are offered the opportunity to eliminate so many ofthe stereotypes that have bound people for ages. Yet, these changes will require action on our part. 
I suppose it all comes back to the question of responsibility. If we are to take an productive part in the formation of the future, we must act now. 
We need to allow others the opportunity to reach the full potential of their talents. This entails a reconsideration of our role require­ments. 
It is time that we recognized the fact that people cannot reach their humanity within the existing framework of social roles. We 
Sex at Notre Dame? 
Over the past semester I have reinforced some friendships, abandoned some entirely (an unfortunate circumstance but one which had to happen), and also rr.ade some new ones. A couple of those new friends have opened my eyes to a side of Notre Dame and 



Tim Neely 

My Turn 
Saint Mary's that I hardly knew existed, be­cause it is something rarely talked about, at least in public. That is the sexual side ofNotre Dame. 
I suppose I was naive the last four years. I had thought that there was very little premari­tal sex here -so little that I knew only a small number ofstudent~ who had so indulged. 
Some ofmy new friends have convinced me that the opposite extreme also exists, that there is much more that goes on here than I had thought. Despite Dulac's admonitions against premarital ~ex, it docs happen with some tn::qucncy. 
I can recall a convnsation with a friend several m<)nths ago in which I stated my belief in the sexual situation at the two campuses. She took issue with me, stating that based upon her experiences with friends and roommates, I was o!f base; especially off campus. There i~ much casual sexual activity, she claimed. 
After some mort· unscicnti!lc study, I have tentativdy concluded that reality is some­whne between nn-original idea of vast chas­tit\· and her idea of extreme hedonism. No statisticall\ valid survey has been done at :"<otrc Dame or Saint \lary's about sexual at­titudes and behavior th;lt I know about, hut the results would probably shock some G:Jt­sider:-; who believe all the students here are good, upstanding, conservative Catholics. 
Regardless, unhealthy sexual attitudes do exist around here. My "favorite" is consider­ing nearly everything relating to the sex act as gross or deviant. There is a limit to what most people can accept in relation to sexual rela­tions, but with many of my acquaintances that limit is so low as to be ridiculous. Perhaps they are blessed with the same delusions I had about the overall sexual activity here, and that is why they consider such things as masturba­tion and french kissing as deviant. 
Another problem is that sex is not taken seriously. Some upperclassmen may recall the old WSND-AM radio call-in show Radio Free Notre Dame. Every month or so the subject was "Sex at Notre Dame." Easily the most popular show in the history of the station, it was that way for all the wrong reasons, and eventually it was forced off the air along with its hosts after one particularly foul evening. It did not discuss the subject seriously at all; in­stead, it used stereotypes, innuendo. and Anglo-Saxonbms that would have other radio stations pressing the panic button -except at WSND there was no panic button to pres~. and the callers knew that. (All call-in shows are now on seven-second tape delay). Many people found the show extremely funny. Others found it disgusting. Actually, it was ex­tremely sad. 
That show passed on three years ago. but things have not changed much. If the same were attempted today, the resulb would be identical. Perhaps the lack ofseriousness with. which sex is treated rdlects ignorance and fear. especially the latter. There really b no place to discuss sex openly in this community, especially considering the official ban against premarital sex here. Sometimes friends are not a good place to turn, citht.:r. And bccau~e of ignorance, people have entered situations which they went {)11 to regret. 
need to act openmindedly and encourage each other to work to our best abilities no matter what the t1eld. 
As intelligent, thinking individuals, we do have a responsibility to act. Perhaps the most important thing we can do is to help the human race reach a point where it will no lon­ger be hindered by role stereotypes but will recognize each person as an equal being un­hindered in the development of his or her potential. 
Don't we owe it to the babies? 


P.O. Box Q  
lnnsbruck remark untrue DearEditor, .\laybe they bribed the lnnsbruck chief of In \londay's Obsen•er. the house editorial police. As a matter of t;tct -none of the ( repre~enting the opinion of a majority of above. Actually, no Austrian o!l:kiab \\Trc the Editorial Hoard) entitled "Forget the involved whatsoever. :\o lnnsbruck student buses -save bee." once again committed had any problems with the "harsh European that error of errors in the world of jour­drug laws" at any time. The offending stu­nalism-the printing ofan t:NTRLTH. This dents had onh· to deal with ~otre Dame article drew a parallel between the ad­laws. Thus, the truth is told. ministration's reluctance to cover for stu­The manner in which The OIJsert•er dent irresponsibility concerning the bus alludes to the lnnsbruck incident is the damages and their action's concerning last worst a!l:i·ont. It is thrown into a totally unr­year's foreign studies hash smokers. This elated article as an accepted fact. I can un­parallel is not only uncalled for. it is totally derstand (but nor li>rgive) the falsehoods far-fetched. Did they have to cross the ocean printed last year concerning this incident. A for an analogy' w;n·e ofsensationalism overtook the L lniver­All kidding aside,let's do as the article says sit\· and the distance magni!ying the mys­and forget those buses. Let's get down to the ten·. But there is no excuse h>r presumpti .on aforementioned L:NTRLTH. I quote. "It at this point when the truth is easily acces­secn•s that the administration ha~ forgotten sible. the students it saved from harsh European Perhaps someday the story will be told in drug laws last year." :\ow how did the ad­a htctual manner. L ntil then all references ministration do this? Did they crash the ~hould be avoided. prison the students were held up in' Did thev buy expensive law~ ers to confuse the Yours truthfu/IJ', Austrian o!l:lcials into a H·rdict of not guilty? Sarah Newman  
'Brian' comic insulting DearEditor: improbable that they have any intellect at We are writing in reference to the "Brian" all. comic which appeared in the Observer on One can better understand how this is not Monday, November 15. In this particular humorous by imagining that the comic were comic, Brian and his friend arc watching a a racial insult instead. People would be very voluptuous St. Mary's student walk by. Brian upset by such a blatant dbplay of prejudice. gets very excited, and so his friend cautions But that is exactly what this is. Only it is dis­him, saying "Yeah, hut could she satisfy your guised under old stereotypes which are as emotional and intellectual needs as weiP" harmful as the racial ones. We appreciate the value ofcomics hut not This comic insults Notre Dame men as when the intent is to degrade. stereotype, well. It implies that they are only looking tor and insult. This comic insults both men and one thing. Brian doesn't seem to have any women on personal bsues. The woman in other needs to he met, emotional or intellec­the picture is portrayed as a mere sex object. tual. Because he is just a baby, he doesn't un­The comic insults women in a multitude of derstand what it means to respect another wavs. esp. St. :\la11·'s women. It reinforces person. But his friend in the comic should. the stereotype that beautiful women are on­and so should Rosales, the "artist." ly made for one thing (i.e. male pleasure) and that it is completely unnecessarv and Notre Dame Women's Caucus  



Editorial Board Department Managers 

Hox Q. :'Votre Dame,/.'\' 46556 
Editor-in-Chief.............................. \lichael .\tonk Husiness Manager ............ ................Tony Aiello
The Obsen•er is the independent newspaper published hy the students of the Lni­
J1mwging Etlitor................ Ryan \'er Berkmoe~ Controller .............................................Eric Schulz
versio· of :"<otrc Dame du Lac and Saint Ma11·'s College. It does not nece~sarily relkct 
Executiue .Vews Editor .............. David Dziedzic Advertising .Hanager.......................Chris Owen
the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­
.\~\fC E.wcutil'e Editor............ Margaret Fosmoe Production Manager..................Maura ,\1urphy
curately and as objectively as possible. l'nsigned editorials represent the opinion of a 
,\j>orts Editor...................................Chris Needles Circulation Manager......................Mark Miotto
majorit~ of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters, and the Inside Column depict 
Editorials Editor ............................. Paul McGinn !-.)stems Manager ........................... Bruce Oakley
the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, 
Features Editor............ .. ...Tari Brown
and the free expression ofvarying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Pboto Editor ........................~ .......... Rachel Blount Founded November 3, 1966 
(219) 239-5303 
....
---------~~-----~~-----~ 
f 
t 
' 


~j)()f1tS=f=)==~=~=·~~=S========~======================Th=u=r=sd=~='=D=e=ce=r=nb=e=r=9,=1=9=82===p=a=ge==8 
By The Obser11er and The Associated Press 
Virginia and Georgetown each scored im­
pressive victories last night in preparation for their showdown Satur­day night in Landover, Md. Ralph Sampson's 36 points paced the No. 1 Cavaliers to a 104-91 victory at Duke in the first ACC game played with a 30-second shot clock and a three-point line. Meanwhile, Bill Martin's 30 points led the third-ranked Hoyas past visiting Alabama State, 99-76. Elsewhere, Greg Stokes' 19 points sent No. ' Iowa to an impressive H7-66 romp over No. 16 Marquette. And, john Pinone pumped in 21 points to lead No. 10 Villanova over Marist, 97-69, in Philadelphia. -AP 
The ND-SMC Sailing Club is accepting applica­
tions for positions on the 1983 Kennedy Cup team. The Kennedy 
Cup is an annual event held in t Luders 44's at the U.S. Naval Academy 
at Annapolis. Anyone with big boat experience who would like to 
participate should contact Tom Fink at 1088. -The Observer 
Broom-ball and ice skatingwm be featured at 
a party sponsored by the Office of Non-Varsity Athletics tomorrow night immediately following the Notre Dame-Ohio State hockey game. -The Observer 


Classifieds 
NOTICES 
Professional typmg. Free pick up and delivery Delivery w1thon 24 hours $.80 per page. 282-1805 
Professional typing. Free pick up and delivery Delivery wrthin 24 hours. $.80 per page. 282-1805 
TYPING. Jackoe Boggs. 684-8793. 
Typos! Needs Work 277-8534 alter 6pm M-F 
Is It True you can buy reeps for $44 through the U.S. Government? Get the facts today! Call 312-742-1143 Ext 7316. 
TYPING AVAILABLE-287-4082. 
NEED RIDE TO NYC OR LONG ISLAND AREABRIAN 8600 

Washington, DC Club. Your time has come! Sign-ups for the Christmas bus are Sunday. Dec. 12 from 7-8 p.m in LaFortune Ballroom .$70.00 round tnp You must pay to reserve your seat. 
I need a nde to Flonda for Xmas.Can leave the 21stElizabeth 7220 
:CARVER SONIC HOLOGRAM SEMI­NAR & DEMO Whars a Sonoc Hologram? Its a spectacular new way to recreate a ·three dimens1onal sound 1mage in your room. The Some Hologram can be added .to any stereo system and works w1th any 
:_ .". ~rding Hear A Spectacular 
~­·.  .:.  · Demonstration at  
~­ :~)':.  T:g,~3~s=~~:~s  
~­ 

'} Friday, December 10 at 8:00PM 
I ,.. ,. ' . 234-5001 
~~-·. 1 · .......... · 
.?!; ..~.~~. ·t·..l_._OST/FOUND I . 
• 
~  - Student  Housong  -Clean  Safe  
' ,;.  Lbsr-Tl-55 CALCULATOR on the 2nd  291 1405$lOO/mo. .  
fl09f of the library Sunday, Nov 28. woth  Room for rent for female grad or taw stu­ 
case.  My name is etc'hed  on the back  dent in NO Ave  Apts $180 plus electnc  
REWARD ·Ca" MIKE at 3571  Call Madeleone at 287-4644 after 11  
LOST: Tl-55 CALCULATOR on the 2nd  NEED A  FEMALE  ROOMMATE.  Cute  
· Hoor of the library Sunday. Nov. 28, wnh  Loll Apt . Good LocatiOn. 95 00/MONTH  
case.  My name IS etched on  the back.  Utls oncluded Call 234-0824  
REWARD. Call MIKE at 3571  
5-BEDROOM.  COMFORTABLE.  COM­ 
LOST· A Woman's gold Bulova watch at  PLETELY FURNISHED HOUSE. CLOSE  
Regina s  Sooth  Lounge  Basement  If  TO NDU. STARTING JULY. 1983 CALL  
found please return Call5487 (SMC)  288-3942  
LOST  PAIR OF GLASSES THURSDAY  CLEAN. FURNISHED APT  CLOSE TO  
' MORNING  IF  FOUND  PLEASE CALL  CAMPUS 135/MONTH 233-8163  
.,..  · 1653. REWARDII!'!'  
Near ND,  2-bdrm . unfurnoshed, utllitoes  
LOST one  paor of glasses. in  a  brown  paid le's gas Call 272-0261  
. case.  near Stepan Park1ng  tot.  call call  
don at 1771  Furnshed  house  for  rent.gd  
cond .4bdrm ,close to campus,avatlable 
'FOUND one Silver and black tabby cat  1983-1984 school year Call287-5361  
.. forfurther informatiOn call283-4305  
ROOM FOR RENT  
LOST: A gold s-cha1n with a gold cube on  for spnng sem  
it If you lind it, please call Laura at 4624  house pnv  
Great sentimental value. Thanks.  good nmbrhd  
$100/month  
FOUND· CHARM from a charm bracelet.  call Bill233-3014  
form of a gold mug. wolh plaque on front  
reads  -­ BELLE VERNON PROM. 1982.  
see JIM 1n 216 Keenan, or call me at 3274.  S1ngte bedroom. 4 rooms, appliances &  
major ut11it1es furnished 150 00 288-6721  

LOST TIMEX WATCH WITH BROWN LEATHER BAND ON TUESDAY. NOV 30 OF GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE THOUGHT TO HAVE BEEN LOST SOME-WHERE BETWEEN THE STADIUM PARKING LOT AND THE BUSINESS ADMIN-ISTRATION BUILD­ING. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL PAT AT SMC. 284-5456 S 
FOUND: Contact lenses case. Down vest, Raoncoat. Sweatshorts, Sweatpants Lett on Stepan Center Call Tom at 7559 or 239-7458toclaimbyThurs 12/9 
LOST· ONE DARK BEIGE SMALL CLUTCH PURSE LAST SEEN IN P W TV LOUNGE IF YOU HAVE IT OR KNOW ANYTHING OF ITS WHEREABOUTS. PLEASE CALL NANCY AT 2917 
FOUND: Pentax Camera Left tn car on Green Foeld after a Football Game Call Tom at 1178 
LOST Two wool scarfs -one brown and one brown and betge stnped Lost on dot­terent places Reward Call Elozabeth 7220 
LOST A 14K gold fnsh wedding nng (w/ hands. heart. and crown) Lost 1t 1n the begtnnong of the school year in the base­ment bathroom of Holy Cross SMC It os extremely sent1mental! If found. please contact Rose --284-4455 
LOST 14K gold box chain bracelet at 
N.D Sat. noght (4th) at Grace or Morns­say If found please calf Cmdy 264-4351 REWARD OFFERED. 
HELP GONE II a paor of doamond stud ear­nngs and gold ear-cuffs. REWARD! call Celia2849 
LOST: One heart Lost somewhere on 303 Keenan to an ark1e Name your reward 
LOST Woven Platd lzod Scart Lost on 12-5-82 If found please call 7884 
I 


FOR RENT 

3&4 bedroom homes, apploances fur­noshed, garages. gas heat. 225 00 ­275 00 288-6721 

WANTED ] 
NEED RIDE TO NYC OR LONG ISLAND FOR XMAS I MUST LEAVE ON DEC 19.20, or eve of DEC 18 Will share dnvong and all expenses. CALL BERT AT 288-2204 
Need R1de To Connecticut For Chnstmas Break Please Call Dan At 6824 anytime 
WASHINGTON DC AREA Need a nde on December 22 Call Kathleen at 232-2533 
PLEASE HELP! need nde to DC !or Xmass-atter 4pm 12/21 Maura X2244 
PLEASE HELP! need nde to DC for Xmass-atter 4pm 12/21 Maura X2244 
NEED XMAS RIDE TO CONNECTICUT CAN LEAVE 12/20CALLPAULAT 6829 
Glmme a break! 
A Chnstmas break. that os Actually. what you need to gtmme 15 a nde home. to the Pholadelph1a/ Allentown. PA/Wolmongton. Del /South Jer­sey/Harnsburg/even North Jersey(!) area for break Call Ttm at 288-1822 or leave a message at The Observer office (239-5303) 
Desperately need ride to Pittsburgh­Dec 18.Call Karen at 7939 
RIDE TO NYC area wantd for Xmas break as early as Fn. Dec 17th Call Tom ­8425 
A1ders wanted to Detroit area or po1nts east along 1·94 Departure woll be on the late atternoon on Dec 19 Call Tan at 239­5313 or 7981 tate at noght 
HELP! 1 or 2 ndesneeded to MD/DC/VA Can leave at 4 on the 21st Call Joan at 1334 or Kath1 at 1326 
need nde to CHICAGO Fro, Dec 10. can leave anyt1me alter noon call Sheola 269­9304 
Need nde to and from PHILADELPHIA for break Can leave anyt1me after Dec 18 Call Mary at 2919 
Rode needed to/near ALBANY N Y for 12/22 call Ken 233-8626 
NEED RIDE TO DALLAS, FT WORTH. TX . OR ALBUQUERQUE. N M FOR XMAS BREAK. CAN LEAVE t2/14 PM CALL DAMON ODER AT GOSHEN COL­LEGE. 1·533·316t. EXT 213 
Need nde to DC for break Can leave 12/18 Dave 1003 
NEED RIDERS to/from SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA or TUSCON/PHOENIX areas for Chnstmas vacation CALL BOB at x1681 
Wanted 1·2 nders to Ft Walton Beach, Fla Leavong Dec 21 Call Annoe (55441 even1ngs 
NEED RIDE TO WASH DC area lot Xmas Can leave after noon on Dec 21 Call Theresa at 4588 
NEED RIDERS 1-way TO No Va (Quanlico area) FROM Tampa/S! Pete For Xmas-Call Nancy at 3397 
• ..NFL 
continuedfrom page 12 

abstentions, and the New York Giants were .:j.., -'5 in favor. 
Members of the Dallas Cowboys, Tampa Bay Buccaneers and Lm An­geles Rams said their teams had voted overwhelmingly in favor, al­though they did not disclose the vote, and a member of the Falcons said they had approved it. It was also reported that the Buffalo Hills had approved the contract by a 2-1 mar­gin. 
The Houston Oilers also approved the contract. But the Bears and the Lions, who voted against ratification, were two of the last teams to agree to return to practice after the strike ended. 
Detroit's St<~n White," member of the NFLPA executive committee, said the Lions h<~d turned down the <~greement "by more than <1 2-1 mar­gin." 
Bear player rep Brian Baschnagel declined to disclose his ream's vote except to say it was against the con­tract. 
Accc:ptance of the contract by a majority ofthose participating in the vote would complete: the ratitlca­tion process and formally end a labor dispute that forced the tlrst in­season strike in the league's 63-year history. 
The players, whose signed ballots were vc:riticd by their player representatives, voted at their train­ing sites with the individual team results forwarded to the union's headquarters for final tabulation. 
The contract includes a S60 mil­lion one-time cash bonus to be dis­tributed among the league's I,'500 players, an increased minimum wage scale, severance pay, increased playoff, pension, insurance and per diem monies and other benefits. 
And for the tlrst time, NFL clubs guarantee to allocate specific sums toward player compensation over the life of the contract. The players also won greater access to their medical records and the right to choose their own surgeon for game­related injuries. 
Other gains by the players include 
PENNSYLVANIA -RIDE NEEDED Poconos are great tor skung Help anytime W1ll share all expenses (gas.dnvmg) Call Warren at 1167 NOW• Will share all expeoses (gas.dnvong.etc ) Call Warren at 1167 NOW!! 
NEED RIDE NYC NJ AREA FOR XMAS CAN LEAVE ANYTIME AFTER .12-18 AFTER 11 PM 284-5338 KAREN 
Rode needed to PHILA for Xmas break Can leave an ylime from 12/20 om Call Frank at 277-2736 
RIDERS needed to NH or BOSTON for holidays. Want to leave ASAP. preferably 12/19 Call Mark at3372 
EASTERN PENNA · RIDE NEEDED ­Along 1-80 east to Poconos for X-mas 
Help me gel there Am able to leave 12/22. Will share all expenses (gas,dnvong)! Call Warren NOW at 1167!! Thanks 
need nde to Johnstown or Pittsburgh Pa for break Can leave dec 20 call Steph x6798 Woll share usual 
PLEASE HELP! Need ride to DC after 4pm 12/21 Maura X2244 
Roders needed for X-Mas Break to Conn Leavong Dec 21 Call Kelly at 4432 
Neea Rtde to Ph1la area on or about Dec 19 Will share usual Ann 4323 (SMC) 
DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO MD/DC/VA CAN LEAVE 12/21 CALL TRISH AT SMC 4030 

FOR SALE 
' USED BOOKS Bought. Sold. Searched ERASMUS BOOKS Tues-Sun. 12-6 1027 E Wayne One Block South of Eddy-Jefferson lntersect1on 
FOR SALE 1981 HONDA ACCORD LX. hke new -19,000 moles. Cruose, AIC, P S . AM-FM cassette $7800 Phone Plymouth 1·936-7032 
REFRIGERATOR FOR SALE great Chnstmas present! Oorm-s1ze. 3 2 cu tt 1n excellent condilton call 234-2456 ho­ho-ho 
FOR SALE Full set of Stanley Kaplan MCAT Study Books Avotd the panoc and start studytng now Call Nancy x5221 SMC 

PERSONALS 
Need Round Tnp Rode To Connecticut For Chnstmas Break Wtll Share Usual Please Call Dan AI 6824 anytime. 
Atlanta 
Atlanta 
ATLANTA Need Rode to Atlanta on Dec 22 Call Dave at 6931 
BUY CANDYGRAMS11 !$ 25 only!! 
HELP!!!!! I NEED A RIDE TO NYC AND FROM NYC FOR CHRISTMAS BREAK WILL SHARE USUAL PLEASE CALL JACK 6720 
HEY WHAT HAPPENED TO CHEAP­SHOT??? 2nd R.S. 
an easing of the_ compensation rules 
governing the movement of free 
agents who have played out their 
contracts and a streamliing of non­
injury grievance procedures. 
Player representatves, represent­

ing each of the: league's 2H teams, 
voted 19-9 \londay to urge the full 
membership to ratif~· the agreement. 
Union leader~ had predicted the full membership would follow the player repre~entatives' vote and ac­cept the tentative agreement. 
NFL owners ratified the agree­ment last month. 
The union ordered the players on strike on Sept. 21 -I 0 weeks after the former collective bargaining agreement had expired and after more than eight months of fruitless negotiations. 
The players dosed the camps for 57 days, wiping out eight weekends of the 16-week regular season. Offi­cials have since rescheduled one lost weekend, to be played jan. 2-3, leaving a nine-game season, the shortest in league history. 
The Observer will accept classifteds Mon­day through Fnday. 10 a.m to 4.30 p.m However. classifteds to appear Ill the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the bustness day pnor to tnsertton. All classtfieds must be prepaid. etther in person or through the maiL 
Cost of stamps effectrng your Chnstmas correspondence? Buy OBSERVER clas­sified Instead! Avaotabte at the N D Ob­server off1ce 9 30 to 3 a no the Sa1 nt Mary s oll1ce r.oon to 3 Monday lhru Friday 
ALAS DEAR LADIES WE GOT DUMPED!! WANT US TO RETURN? CALL OR WRITE WSND AND TELL THEM HOW YOU FEEL ABOUT TliE SHOW BEING SUSPENDED! WSND P.0. 502, N.D. IND. 46556. 
NEED RIDE TO JERSEY WILL SHARE USUAL CALLED 1419 
Celebrallon of the Amencas FEAST OF OUR LADY OF GUADALUPE Sun Dec 12. 
George Over Chnstmas vacat1on, beware Chnstmas light bulbs, swamp water, ltq­uod that dstroys plasllc cups. and gravel 
dnveways Your pal 
Happy Borthday my dear Danoelle. You have loads of fun Ill bet, A questoon though, I have for you. Are you legal yet? Laura 
Myron The t1me has come for me to WISh you a very merry Chnstmas and a new year 
lolled woth loads of fun! The Pen Pat 
BOSTON BUS SIGN UPS MONDAY 7 pm LAFORTUNE BRING $50 NON REFUND DEP TOTAL PRICE $110 LEAVES THE 22nd 
BOSTON BUS SIGNUPS MONDAY 7 at LAFORTUNE 
BOSTON BUS-STOPS IN ALBANY, SPRINGFLD-BRING $50 MONDAY IIT7 TO LAFORTUNE TOTAL-$110. 
BOSTON BUS SIGNUPS MONDAY BRING$$ TO RESERVE SEAT-PRICE INCLUDES REFRESHMENTS. AND A RELAXING PARTY AFTER FINP,LS. CALL 277-32761F ??? 
PITTSBURGH CLUB CHRISTMAS BREAK BUS SIGN-UPS Sunday Dec 12 Lafortune Lottie Theater at 7prn See 
ad for delaib. 

PITTSBURGH CLUB CHRISTMAS BREAK Bus S1gn-ups Sunday Dec 12 Lafortune Little Theater at 7pm must attend the meetmg 
LEARN HOW TO TYPE MIOTTO!!! 
Tired of studying? Take a few hou~rs to relax at Zahm Half's Coffee H<>use every Thurs. 9-12 p.m. Live entertamm­ment, many varities of coffee, hesh baked goods. All are welcome. 
IJC CLUB ITS FINALLY TIME FOR BUS SIGN-UPSII1 SUNDAY. DEC 12 FI10M 7-8 PM IN LAFORTUNE BALL­ROOM $70 00 ROUND-TRIP YOU MUST PAY TO RESERVE A SEAT 
HAPPY 22ND BIRTHDAY TO MARK MAl FROM 200 STANFORD 
Kelly Mullaney os 20 on Sat --call and wosh her a Happy B-Day--SMC 438!1 
Yoohoo. Kenny' 

JENNY PITTS, R A Extrodonaore How bout them panetats? luv. kk 
If I were paranoid, I'd be confused. 
SUZANNE LACROIX, THE FLEET­
FOOTED RABBIT SINCE YOU KNOW HOW TO TYPE SO WELL DO YOU ALSO KNOW HOW TO SET JUST AS WELL? GOOD, THEN WHEN YOU'RE MY SECRETARY YOU CAN TYPE FOR ME AND ALSO SET ON MY LAPf!ll YOUR BOSS. CLUB-FINGERS 
AS HEARD ON WAOR·FM 95, THE AL· TERNATIVE NIGHTCLUB PRESENTS APEX THIS FRI & SAT NIGHTS FROM 9 TIL 1 YOU NEED NOT BE 21 TO ENTER 
Ill don't get a ride home to Plllsburgh, then f won't be able to wish my mother Merry Christmas which would be a sad sad thing because then I probebly wouldn't get my new stereo. So please calf Dan at 8641. I can leaw on Tues­day evening, the 21st. Thankyou 
Semors, Just when you thought It was 
safe to go on a bus MULDOONS!!! Start saving those quarters now Get lots of rest over break Veterans g1ven preterance DON T MISS IT!!!!! Sponsored by Y 0 A S 0 Committee 
MARK McDOOGLEHEAD DID HIS BEST NOW HE S A NOTCH ABOVE THE REST. (RIGHT JODY?) 
HEY•!! I just wanted to formally tell you that I had a fantastoc lime Fnday Thanks so much for goong Iwas tust dosappotnted about one th1ng--you d1dnl TRY anyth1ngt What kind of sophomore ARE you? 
Lowsa. An elephant never forgets 
3A The leprechaun JUmped. quock like a cat. He dtd good. now he s got hos hat Kurt had a date but anyway he shaved The road to h1s w1th concrete 1S paved Thur<day night the raon dodn t hall Gary-Mtke gets h1S by qpfault The rest of 3A would do well to. comply, Or else the red gems Will be certaon to doe Chrysanthemum 
Take the chance thai you know who thts os· 
and send me a rose f m really down Just knowtng you care a little would make all the dofference t m not on the hunt, I just m1ss see1ng you A freshman 
Colleen Murph)". 
Heres IO yOU 
YoiJr secret adm.rer 
MULDOONS!II 
SUZANNE LACROIX FLEET-FINGERED TYPESETTERESS WHO CAN TYPE AS WELL AS SET (ON MY LAP) 
Decis1ons, dectslons. decis1ons Oil, to be m Elkhart. now lhat Chrrstmas 1S here Protected by the (frag1/e) Wall of Jencho. Even as we speak, Marl( en· ters the room (That's sad) lck. Where? Surely (Where?) you've heard this all be/ore Such a day you wouldn't believe We should &I' skip (where?) town and head for fhr _;!ISS ol Elkhart. Happy Hanukkah . 
Need rode to BOSTON for breaK -can 
leave 9 pm Dec 18 -call Losa 284-4111 
Colleen Kong (The Pnae of p,ttsburgh) Wake up' Merry Xmas• Love. K Knngte <) 
I 

~-----------------------­
The Observer Thursday, December 9, 1982-page 9 

Nebraska star football center Dave Rimington is the overwhelm­


Another 
ing favorite to capture his second 
straight Lombardi Award, to be 
presented today in Houston. The

award? 
award is given annually to the best lineman in the country'. ( AP Photo) 

All's quiet 


Winter talks continue in Ha-waii 
HONOLLLLJ (AP)-There was a 

there was no lack of trade talk. scene and told reporters that the lot of talk at baseball's winter 
The Texas Rangers. for example, Yankees still were in the chase for meetings yesterday, but little action 
appeared to he nearing a deal that free agents Steve Garvey, Floyd Ban­a~ teams waited for a deal or a free­would one these Steve Omar
ship off of nister. Kemp and agent ~igning to unloose a torrent of meetings' most sought-after players. \loreno. 
trades. Gold Glove third baseman Buddy Steinbrenner also said the club After two and a half da~·s of Bell. 
would try to make a deal involving meetings. ther was still only one 
And there was the usual flurry third baseman Graig Nettles. who trade. a the-player deal between when New York Yankee owner has expressed a desire to be traded. > Oakland and Boston on \londay, but George Steinbrenner arrived on the Nettles' name has been mention in trade talks with Kansas City. Steinbrenner said his main con­cern is to improve a team that

Rirnington favored to 
tlnished tlfth in the American Leagul· 
East last season, but "we can't make 
any real significant moves until we 
find out what we've got (in the way 
offree agents)." 

win Lombardi Award 
HOUSTON (AP) -All-America mer Texas defensive tackle Kenneth 
It appeared unlikely, however. center Dave Rimington of Nebraska. Sims. now a starter for the New 
that New York would come away a two-time Outland Trophy winner, 
England Patriots of the National 
from these meetings with Garvey.is the favorite over three other Football League. finalists tOday to win the I :\th Lom­Achica, a three-year starter at Published reports said the Cubs bardi Award, presented annually to Southern Cal, was named to the AP would announce in Chicago yester­the nation's top collegiate lineman. first team All-America defensive unit day that they had signed Garvey. The Arkansas defensive end Billy Ray after leading the Trojans in tackles Cubs' offer was reported to be S7.5 Smith, University of Southern with 7~. million over tlve years, compared to Calitornia nose guard George Achica Maxwell spearheaded the Sun the Padres' S6 million for five. Gar­and Arizona State linebacker Vernon Devils' defensive unit with 99 vey turned down an offer of SS mil-· Maxwell are the other finalists for tackles and 12 quarterback sacks, lion over four years from his old the award, to be presented at a S I 2 5-and was named the team's most team, the Los Angeles Dodgers. per-person benetlt dinner. valuable player in 19!-!2. 
"I don't know anything about it,"The award is named in honor of "Last year we had an outstanding Cubs General Manager Dallas GreenVince Lombardi, former coach ofthe offensive unit, but this year it was said. "I know of no press conferenceGreen Bay Packers and Washington the defense that was expected to in Chicago. I don't know where thatRedskins, who died of cancer in carry us through and I think we did a came from. I'm not saying, though,1970. Proceeds from the dinner go pretty good job ofit," :'\1axwell said. 
that we're not going to try to sign
to the American Cancer Society tor Past winners of the Lombardi Garvey."
research. Award, beginning in 19"'0, were:Jim The 6-3, 290-pound Rimington Stillwagon, Ohio State; Walt Padres President Ballard Smith repeated this season as a first team Patulski, Notre Dame; Rich confirmed he had talked with Jerry 
Associated Press All-American and is Glover, Nebraska; John Hicks. Ohio Kapstein, Garvey's agent. The Padres an unprecedented two-time winner State; Randy White. \laryland; had been considered the frontrun­of the Outland, symbolic of the na­LecRoy Selmon. Oklahoma; Wilson ners in the sweepstakes, panially be­
tion's outstanding interior lineman. Whitley. Houston; Ross Browner, cause Garvey would not have to 
Smith, 6-~. 22H, also was a Notre Dame; Bruce Clark. Penn leave Southern California, and Bal­repeater on the AP all-America first State; Brad Budde, Southern Califor­lard Smith indicated yesterday that team and was a finalist tor last year's nia; Hugh Green. Pittsburgh. and 
he would he willing to revise his of-' Lombardi Award. which went to tor-Sims. 
fer, if necessary. 

LIEBFRAUMILCH 750 ML. 

Giaccobazzi ........~5.o."!L~ 1.99 
BIANCO, ROSATO 24/12 Your 

~s~~L 399 

OZ. CANS Choice! Uebfraumilch .•.. ?:~ ~~· .. 2.99 
OLD MILWAUKEE 1.75 Zeller Swartz Katz 750Ml. 3.99 
LITER
REG. & LIGHT 

24/12 OZ. CANS 5A9 Christian Brothers Cream Jack Daniels ••.•.•.•.• ~~q ('If.. 7.99 Sherry ............~5? .M.L.. 2.99
LABATT'S CANADIAN 

BEER & ALE Beam Blend .•..••.••. }/.5.L~·~'.. 8.99 
Paul Masson light
24/12 OZ. BTLS. 10.99 

Canadian Club ..• : ....• ~ ~q ('I~ .• 6.99 Wines ........... },5,L~T~R. 3.99 
COORS 

Seven Crown ..•.•.•.•. ~~q ('~~ .. 4.99
SIX PACKS 2.99 Gallo Premium Wines 1.5LITER 2.99 Beefeaters Gin ....•.•. ~ ~q ('I~ •• 7.99 
Crown Royal .....•.••• ~ ~q ('I} •• 9.99
KEGS • • • • • • • • • • • • .•.L~T~R. 4,99 Glenfiddich .....••••.• ~~q ('I~ 15.99 
Old Milwaukee 2799 Dewar's White Label .... ~~q ('~~ .. 8.99 
, , , , , , , , , , , };5,L~T~R. 3,99
Budweiser 3199 Johnnie Walker Red ...• ~~q ('~~ .. 8.99 Michelob 3499 J&B Scotch .......•... ~~q ('I~ •• 8.99 J. Roget Wines .....~5? f"'.l.. 1.99 2599 BoodlesGin ........... ?~'!('1~ .. 8.99 Cinzano Asti ... !~<! ~L. 6.99 Sabra Liqueur ......... ~ ~q ('I~ .• 9.99 
Cinzano Asti(Koshtr) 7.5~ ~~ 6.99 P b QUARTS ]99
a st Tabor Hill . . •5?!".L. 2FOR 5.00
McGuires Irish Cream ... ~~q ('~~ .. 7.99 7 
CUVEE WINES
899
Bud, Miller or Lite 

Leroux Irish Cream ..... ?~<!('I~ •. 8.99 
O.J. &Cream .....••... ~~q ('~~ .. 3.99 
----~ ---~ 

The Observer Thursday, December 9, 1982-page 10 
This weekend 

Toughfoes a "Wait "Wrestlers 
ByJEFF BLUMB respect for the l ni1cr;,1t1 uf h:.en· succc~s -.torv Ill Terre ll..ute. lie Sjmrts Writer tucky wrestling team and had been rook third ~ll I 26. lo~ing ju-.t one looking li>rwarJ to being them last match. 
Facing prohahly their toughest .\1onday in a scheduled dual meet. Freshman I IH-pounder Eric competition of this young season, But it wa~n·t to be. Crown surprised the Irish coache~ the Notre Dame wrestlers square otf "The Kentucky athletic director last '>aturda1. with Northwestern..\larquettc, and just called me up and said that thc1· "lie had had only one acwal Southwest \lissouri this Saturday at would not he coming." ;,a1·s Bruno. match all ~Tar ( bccau~e ofa number Notre Dame High School in :-.Jiles. Ill. No further explanation wa~ gtven lor of opposition ll>rti:it~ ). then was 
Northwestern is very similiar to the cancellation. injured." say;, Bruno, ''hut ;,till had 
Notre Dame as far as wrestling Last '>aturday at the similiarh· the sixth-ranked gu~ in the nation on programs go. The Wildcats arc just tough Indiana State Sycamore his hack." now coming hack to power by Tournament in Terre llaute, Ind., Crown went on to take li>urth in actively recruiting top talent -just the Irish did htirly well considering the tournamenr. as Notre Dame h doing. the level ofcompetition prest·nr. Another fre~hman, (denn (ilogas 
"The only diftt.·rcncc is," says Irish Since the tournament wa;, open to also wrestled extremely well ti>r the Coach BrotherJoseph Bruno, C.S.C., tht· general public, :\s;,1;,t~llll Coach Irish. "that they started a littlt: earlier than Tihamer Toth-Fcjel also par· "Glenn lost one early, then won a us." ticipated. .. .,o one w:~s annvherc series of matches, beti>re falling 
Northwestern was to have held near him," say~ Bruno. out.," Bruno ;,ays. "That is very good the quadrangular meet in their Toth-Fcjel went on to take first at for a freshman." fieldhouse but it is currently I SO. After thi~ weekend's quadran­
undergoing renovation. For thb gular, the Irish travel to the \Iidlands reason, the meet has been moved to Championship~ December 2-and
"He wrestles in ~uch an uni­the high school location. on road two meets
nhibited way because he relaxe;, so the fi>r other "Northwestern is hoping to heat during Christmas Break before
much," ~ay~ Bruno. "It ~~something us in front of the Chicago area," says that we try to teach all our young returning home to face :-.Jorrh Bruno. "They don't realize that it wrestlers... Central Illinois and Western Illinois gives us a lot ofexposure also. januan· I:~.
Senior .\lark fisher continued hi~ "I think that if they knew that Notre Dame High School was run by the same Holy Cross Congregation that runs this t;niversity, they would have chose to hold it elsewhere." 
... Women 
In the case of ,\1arquctte, there is a natural rivalry just because both
Irish freshman guard joseph 

schools are Catholic. Yet, Bruno ex­When we did, we were in control."
Price, shown here in action against continuedfrom page 12 
plains another type of rivalry that Notre Dame's control game
St. Francis last month, was a 

the Irish have with the Warriors, as see defenses ...we didn't fall apart." allowed the Irish to dominate the
pleasant surprise in Tuesday's loss

Price-

well as with the Wildcats. "The kind ofshots we were taking second half, 38·2-i. However, the 
to Indiana. Price, who bails from 

"Most wrestlers who fed that they had a lot to do with the lid on the Irish were unable to open up more
Marion, Ind., pumped in 13 points, 

can get in here, want to come here," basket," said DiStanislao. "We were than a two-point lead until Ruth 
and should get the starting nod

less' 

says Bruno. "I get letters all the time rushing shots and people took shots Kaiser scored off a Dougherty feed
again tonight when Notre Dame 

from wrestler~ asking ahout :-.Jotre when they were out ofposition." and was fouled by Wcgner. The
plays host to undefeated Fairfield. 

Dame. Some are ready to pass up full Notre Dame began to come out of three-point play gave :'\lotrc Dame
(Photo by Scott Bower) 

scholarships to come here on any its slump late in the second half some breathing space at 62-58. little scholarship. when Dougherty, who finished with Wegner scored offa pretty fake by 
"Still, there are a lot of wre~tlers 14, scored four points with a pair of Walker to restore doubt, bm for­who want to come here who can't free throws and a IS-foot jumper to ward Carol Lantange fouled \1ary get in. :viany of these guy~ end up at reduce the Western lead to single Beth Schueth, whose free throws led Northwestern and .\1arquette. Con· digits. the Irish parade to the charity stripe, scquently, we go around wrestling When first-year Bronco coach jim where Shari :vlatvcy and Denise Bas· guys who couldn't get in here." Hess was able to dictate the tempo ford were able to close the show. 
Bruno knows little ahout South· to Notre Dame, Western was able to Fundamentally. west :vlissouri, except that it has roll, enjoying an advantage playing lRISH ITEMS -Scheuth led the done well in recent year~. its run-and-press game. In the lrbh with I9 points .Keys' return 
"I am familiar with them," he says, second half, however, W:vllJ's speed to action was a tentative one. The 6­"because their namt· come~ up game seemed to go out of control. I freshman shot -1-ot: I o to -,core when talking about wrestling and The Broncos turned the hall over I I eight points in 13 minutes. "I know Missouri ~choob." times (to Notre Dame's five), racked everything mentally," said Keys. "I 
Factoring in all the 1·ariahle~ of up I 0 personal IilLIIs. and shot a really only practiced one day, so wrestling. like injurie' and new miserable ~8 percent. translating it (knowledge) into the recruits, tht· Irish know even le~~ The Irish were able to capitalize physical was kind of tough" ...The
r•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••··~ 

about the competition thcv will on the mistakes of Bronco forward referees were erratic, to ~ay the face. Vicky :\'Iusky and guard Sheri Weg­least. At one point. .\tary D. and Hess "It's too early in the ~eason to get ner, each of whom turned the hall flanked official Dick Clllln. both· t The under 21 club invites t any good scouting," ;,ay;, Bruno. "We over seven times, and were able to lecturing with gusto . .A;,sistant can only rely on feedback. Since we outrebound Western 2:'>·19 in the Coach .\1ary Ellen \lurphy missed 
t THEALTERNATIVE t 

• All Notre Dame Students • never really know who will he in second halt: her second consecutive game. She
t to party with t their lineup we mu~t always go into "We were trying to keep the was on a recruiting trip in ~aginaw, a match respecting the opponent." tempo fast," said Hess, who is Mich. :\1ary D. and assistant Pat
• 
APEX • The exception to thb problem b attempting to turn around a Knapp didn't return to :'\lotre Dame 

• 
music 9-1 (RN N.D. Bond) • when a I'Cteran Irish wrc~tler has program that went ..,·I9 last season. last night. They went to recruit a met hb opponent pn:viou~ly and "We were going against a well· prospect in Detroit .\1iami of


•• Smoll(ovet(horg• on Dec. 10 & 11 3318ffiishowokoRve. : 

South Bend, IN know~ what he C:,\11 reasonably ex· disciplined team that plays solid Ohio, which hroke :"1/otre Dame's : (2 blocks west of Logon St.) : 
pect from him. halt:court defense and gets the good ten-game winning streak last year,
................................. The Irish grapplers held much shot, so we had to make them rush. vi~its the South Dome of the ACC 
tomorrow night. 
~1 
Yesterday's Result

~ HUiliUj HwAY ~ 

Notre Dame women 68, Western Michigan women62 Notre Dame (68)
g ~ 
M FG-A FT-A R F P Matvey 14 2-7 2-2 6 4 6 
·Bi9!Je3; RMe Sale I <m€ nowB€Jn(jacc€Pt€b1
Ka1ser 34 3·8 1-3 2 1 7 Scheuth 34 8·16 3-4 8 4 19 Hensley 16 0 1 0-0 0 1 0
.·~ $10·00 'Do.~ $1·75 1 foR th€pos1t1on of I 
Dougherty 28 5·11 4 4 5 3 14 Ebben 25 4-7 0-0 3 0 8 Basford 24 2-4 2-2 0 2 6
$2-50 ~mgeewe 

Keys 13 3·9 0-0 4 1 6 Bates 12 1·3 0-0 1 1 2 200 28-66 12-15 29 17 68
-~Urld at

3 weWl10age 1I assistant 1I 
FG Pet 424 FT Pet 800 Team reiJounds · 6 Turnovers -13 Ass1sts -9
AlliHcfude 'Baluj'3 bltoolk cuuL ~ 

(Scheuth 2. Dougherty 2. Basford 2) Technl­cals ·None
~hnn; nD n11e,~t: 'BrW«.J iK 53efJtllltlU IVUiett3 Western Michigan (62)



I news €bJtoR. I 
M FG-A FT·A R F P
~vvv cuuL gel yout0 ~~ 

I 
I 



you:uetrUed att fke ~t. MDUL bty lke&fJ at 
I£~ thiS IS a palb POSitiOn. 
The Plants &~ ~i 
Call Oav€ at 239-7471 roR b€tatlS. 


Rowers Shop ~ 

Oe.ablm€ roR all LeMans Hall, SMC 284-4597 appltcattons ts 5pm ~Rtbay. 
V1cky Musky 38 3·6 2-2 4 4 8 Langtange 36 2· 7 3-4 9 4 7 Sutton 15 0·2 0-0 4 2 0 Walker 36 11·20 3-3 8 2 25 Wegner 40 6-11 2-6 3 3 14 Moon 22 3·5 0-0 2 l 6 Munson 13 1·1 0-0 (' 3 2 200 26-52 10-15 30 19 62 
FG Pet 500 FT Pet 667 Team rebounds · 6 Turnovers · 22 Ass1sts -10 (Walker 4. Wegner 3) Techntcals · None 
Halftime Western M1ch1gan 38. Notre : Dame 30 Off1c1ais ·Molly Sapp,'D1ck Clum · 

; 


Thursday, December 9, 1982 -page 12 

Irish cotne frotn behind to beat WMU, 68-62 
By MIKE RICCARDI 
&. Sports Writer 
KALAMAZOO, Mich. -When the raw talent of the Notre Dame women's basketball team didn't overwhelm Western Michigan, the Irish had to resort to fundamentals to gain a hard-fought 68-62 victory over the Broncos at Read Fieldhouse here last night. 
Sound fundamental play allowed the Irish to chip away at Western's eight-point halftime lead. Notre Dame shot 5-of-7 from the field to begin the second half by outscoring WMU I0-4 and pull to within two. Freshman forward Trena Keys, returning from an ankle sprain that put her out of action for a week, popped a baseline jumper to give 
f. the Irish their first lead with eight minutes remaining. Notre Dame couldn't shake the Broncos until the last three minutes, when the Irish relied on their mas­tery of the moM fundamental offun­damentals -the free throw -to score their last seven points, secur­ing a slim lead and clinching their first road win ofthe sea~on. 
"We showed a lot of poise, com­ing back two points at a time," said Coach Mary DiStanislao. "There were no bursts or tlurries. Our game 


Faces Irish 



Unbeaten Fairfield ( 4-0) invades ACC 
ebbed and tlowed, we picked our­selves up, got back into the game, and it swung our way." 
Notre Dame's game reached low ebb in the early going as the Irish were only able to sink one of their first 13 shots. Bronco guard Terri Walker, who finished with a game­high 25 points, took charge, scoring eight to lead Western Michigan to a 14-2 lead after five minutes. The Broncos were able to keep a 12­point lead until 2:08 was left in the half. 
"We felt kind of lost because the gym was so open," said guard Laura Dougherty of "--otre Dame's .i4.2 percent first-half shooting. "But when we got used to it, it was easy to 
See WOMEN, page 10 

Notre Dame football coach Gerry Faust, Ex­ecutive Vice President Fr. Edmund P.joyce, C. S.C., and senior tri-captain Dave Duerso,i (r. to l.) await the start oflast night's football banquet at 
By NEAL SMITH (.f-0) tonight. The game. which is Sports Writer the sixth ola nine-game home stand, starts at H p.m. in the ACC. 
With the grueling "Triple Crown" For Irish Coach Digger Phelps, it behind them, :'llotre Dame ( 2-5) won't he quite the breather he and looks to get hack to winning ways as his team had anticipatcd after con­it plays host to undefeated fairtield secutive games with national 
Closing the books onfootball 
They held the 63rd annual football banquet last night at the ACC, and the big story was that there wasn't any big story. 
Despite rumors to the contrary, it was not Gerry Faust's "Last Supper." In fact, Faust and Father Edmund 
P. Joyce looked like best buddies -they even sat next 
to each other at the head table. Well, so much for drama. What remained was your ordinary, run-of-the-mill 
banquet: speeches, awards, more speeches, more awards -you get the idea. In addition, the words "student-athlete" and "fine human being" were used and overused. 
Father Hesburgh, the star of last year's banquet with his attack on college football's criminal element, must have known something -he didn't even bother to showup. 
The toastmaster was Rocky Bleier, who captained the At 1967 Notre Dame football team and went on to stardom with the NFL's Pittsburgh Steelers. 
Bleier, who is now a Pittsburgh sportscaster, is an elo­quent speaker, unlike the stereotyped jock. But he did put his foot in his mouth on one occasion. 
When inferring that Irish fans had overly high ex­pectations this season, Bleier classified them into three categories -"yesterday" people, "today" people and "tomorrow" people. 
"'Yesterday' people believe football is built on legacies," said Bleier. "And they expect the current results to mirror the past successes. 
"'Today' people seek immediate gratification. They want an instant winner, right now." 
'"Tomorrow' people, meanwhile, possess the hope that keeps us going. And they are the only ones that can someday take Notre Dame where it's supposed to be." 
After extolling the virtues oflooking ahead and being a "tomorrow" person, Bleier proceeded to look back 
• and detail the story ofGeorge Gipp. Oh well. There were awards, too: 
•cornerback 
Dave Duerson was voted the team's Most Valuable Player by his fellow teammates. Duerson ranked sixth in the nation in interceptions this year with seven. 

•Linebacker 
Mark Zavagnin, the Irish tackles leader with 113, was named the Outstanding Defensive Player. Zavagnin also received the John W. McMullan Award, presented annually to the Notre Dame player who best exemplifies the spirit ofthe scholar-athlete and has con­tributed his skill and ability both on the field and in the classroom. 

•Guard 
Tom Thayer, who played three different positions on the offensive line this year, was tabbed as Outstanding Offensive Player. It was the second straight 


-year that a lineman was named the top offensive perfor­
mer, which may or may not say something about the Irish offense. 

Chris Needles Sports Editor  a·.•~.-··~~\;/~:.  
•"  

•Center 
Mark Fischer, with a :~.1 GPA in accounting, was the recipient of the Scholar-Athlete Award. 

•Captains 
for the 198j squad will he quarterback Blair Kiel and cornerback Stacey Toran. Both will be seniors. 


In between, there were subtle references that this year's 6-4-1 record was commendable -it was just that fans' expectations were too high. 
"We all know that football builds character in ath­letes," said joyce, "hut it's very difficult to prove that football builds character in fans." 
And, of course, you've already read Bleier's com­ments. 
All of this was met with lukewarm response by the 700 or so in attendance, who payed an incredible $18 each just for dinner. Drinks were much extra. 
Veteran banquet-goers commented that it was the smallest crowd they had seen for a NOtre Dame football banquet in years. The reasons were obvious -the economy, the weather and, yes, another disappointing season. 
So, last night there wasn't much talk about the past­just the future. "We have become a family," said Faust. "The spark we've created this year will carry over to next year. The candle will get brighter." 
For Faust's sake, I hope so. The man deserves at least 
another year or two to try to turn things around, using 
the players that he recruited personally. Once he grows 
into the job, Faust will be a successful college coach ­
when that will happen, if at all, is unknown. 
Still, the situation isn't as rosy as last night's banquet made it out to be. Sure, all 22 seniors will graduate on time. Sure, all the players are "fine student-athletes," "fine human beings" and "credits to their families and to Notre Dame." 
But to the diehard Irish football fans -the ones who hunch over their radios religiously every Saturday, the ones who spend hoards of money on season tickets and tailgaters every year, the ones who contribute all the money to this university -all that counts are the num­bers. 
And the numbers don't lie. 
In just two years, the Notre Dame football t'Cam, with a marked increase in talent, has been transformed from a 9-1 I Sugar Bowl-hound, national championship con­tender, to a .500 team. 
When this is finally changed, these banquets will finally mean something. 
powers  Kentuckv,  UCLA  and  In­ 
diana. Fairfield, which finished  11­ 
18 last season. is for real.  

"We have to watch out ti>r a letdown,"" say... Irish Coach Digger Phelps. "Fairfield's ·a much better team than two years ago (when the Stags took the Irish to the wire before losing, =;--.=;=; ). I think their win against Connecticut on the road the other night ( 98-H I on Tuesday) convinced a lot ofpeople." 
Besides the Connecticut victory, Fairfield has defeated :'lliagara ( 79­69 ), Canisius (80-6S ). and Lehigh ( 66-SH ). fairtleld'~ average victory margin has been 1-1 points. 
But despite his team's recent succes..,, fairtield's second-year coach Terry O'Conner is worried that the Irish, after a tough week, are ready to explode. 
"They (the Irish) may really want to win a game on Thursday (today)," say., O'Conner of the Irish, who arc coming off three straight to...ses. "It's obvious!~ f<ir us going to he a very difficult game -it's at South Bend. After their last three games, we're not the same caliber as Indiana, Ken­tucky and I CI.A, by any stretch. It's obviously going to he an easier game for them." 
l'airtield (a Jesuit school located in Connecticut with an enrollment of 2,800) top returnee from last season is 6-1 I center Pete DeBis­schop. The massive 2-tO-pound senior was the Stags' top rebounder last year ( .... .., a game) while placing third in scoring ( 12.8 point average) behind departed forwards Rich Wej­nert and Hank foster. 
Like the Irish, Fairtield starts a couple offre...hmen -Tony <icorge (a 6-5, 190-pound guard) and for­ward Pat Ye"rina ( 6-"i. 200 ). Completing the lineup are juniors Bobby Hun ( nmc pomts a game) at guard and Jerry _Johnson (five ppg. ) at the other ti>rward 'pot. 
O'Conner. like moM others, is stunned by his team's earlY success. "For some reason,"" he says, "we're playing pretty well right now.... 
Conversely. :'llotre Dame is com­ing off its worst performance, statistically. of the young season. In Tuesday's 6H-"i2 loss to '\o. 6 In­diana, the Irish shot a dismal -~9 per­cent and. for the first time, the freshmen did not play like seniors. 
Forward Tim Kempton had his first taste of hall trouble. as he was saddled with three fouls in the first four minutes. Fellow frosh Ken Bar­low and joe Buchanan shot a combined 5-ot-1-J. Only Joseph Price (I 5 points) had a respectable outing against the Hoosier~ amongst the newcomers. 
Bur all that i.., hchind the Irish. their learnmg experience over. Tonight, '.;1) get... to te~t ih new­found knowledge against fairtield ­which should prove to he a verv capable quizmaster. 
~RISH ITE\fS -Whatner hap­pened to home court ach·antage' During "the week" the Irish shot on­ly 5S free throw.... compared to ""'6 for their three opponent., ...free throws seemed to be the difference in the three losse..,, as the Irish hit one more ticld goal than opponents' totals .. .John Pax...on's I 0 points against Indiana extended his streak of scoring in double figure., to ten games. The last team to hold Paxson under ten points was Seton Hall last February I 8 ...Forv..·ard Bill Varner h""' led the team in rebounds in t(JUr of the tive games ...Even with its 59 pacem shooting against Indiana, Notre Dame is shooting =; 5 percent from the tloor tiir the sea..,on. 
NFLplayers 1vote to ratify new contract 
WASHINGTON (AP)-'\ational Football League players ratified by a 5-1 margin yestcrd:~y the tive-year, S1.6 billion collective bargaining agreement that came out of theirS..,_ day strike. 
"We arc delighted by the ratifica­tion," said Ed Garvey, thc executive director of the NFL players union. He said the agreement will he for­mally signed tomorrow in Washing­ton. 
Garvey said the results were based on votes from 26 teams. He said the Atlanta Falcons had not reported their votes and the .\liami 
Dolphins would not votc until today. 
Earlier, most player rt:presentatives declined to disclose how their teams had voted. 
But more than half a dozen teams were reported to have ratified the contract by large-to-overwhelming margins. Two reams, the Chicago Bears and Detroit Lions. were reponed to have voted it d!m :1 
The .\linnesota \"ikings votuJ "i"i-0 to accept, the San francisco ·+<Jers voted 51-1 to ratih·. with thrn· 
See NFL, page 8 

L__________________________________________________________________________________________________.
' 



