' .Lebanon -page 3 

VOL. XVII, NO. 22 the independent ~tudent nl·w~papl-r ~en·ing notre danw and ~aint mary·~ MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1982 
Hitandrun 

Students injured in accident 
By RYAN VER BERKMOES The hit-and-run was the second fie, a decision was made to move her Managing Editor involving Notre Dame students to the shoulder of the road. At this within a week. time Gail Goodenow, a senior nurs­
Two Notre Dame sophomores are No witnesses to the accident have ing major at Saint Mary's, examined in the intensive care units of local come forward at this time. Several Mcinerny. hospitals after a hit and run accident people attending a party at i496 "Her pulse was good, although yesterday morning in the 1400 South Bend Avenue found Mcinerny she was hyperventilating. It was too block of South Bend Avenue. South lying in the middle of South Bend dark for me to check her pupils," 
Bend City Police have no suspects in Avenue. said Goodenow. "She wasn't custody at this time. Gretchen Matthews, a fourth-year wearing a coat or shoes, so we 
The victims are Kerin Mannion of architecture student, said: "We covered her up with a jacket." 902 Notre Dame Avenue, and found her lying in the street, and Onlookers at the scene had few Elizabeth Mcinerny of 41 5 Badin started flagging down cars. Someone details of the incident. Hall. Mannion is in critical but s~able ran into the house to call an am­"It was weird," said Goodenow. condition at Saint Joseph's Medical bulance. At first we thought she was "Nobody really heard anything." Center. He is suffering from a broken drunk and had inerely passed out." An ambulance and several police right leg and internal injuries. According to witnesses, Mcinerny cars arrived three or four minutes af­Mcinerny is a patient at Memorial showed no sign ofphysical injury, al-­ter tbe first call was made. Officers Hospital. She is listed in serious con­though sh.e was having problems made the determination that dition with head injuries. breathing. Because of the heavy traf-Mcinerny had been struck by a car 
and prepared to block off South Bend Avenue. It was at this time, according to
Si\llscoresincreasefor 
Greg Kane, a Notre Dame senior residing at i412 South Bend Avenue, that the second victim, Kerin Mannion, was discovered.
first time in 19years 
"About ten minutes after we dis­covered the woman, a policeman
ByJAVI MULERO "They've stabilized in the last 2 or 
setting up roadblocks noticed the 
News Staff 3 years...There was a drop of 2. 5 
man lying on the shoulder of the 
points the year before last...No final road," said Kane. 

Scholastic Aptitude Test scores results have been received this year, 
Mike Doyen, a senior and resident for this year's college freshmen in­but no great changes are expected," 
of the house in front of which creased nationally after a 19-year he said. 
Mcinerny was found, said: "The road decline. "A decline or increase in SAT 
is pretty dark. If there were more George Hanford, president of the scores is not an indication of stu­
street lights, we would have seen the College Board, the organization that dents' overall achievements. victims sooner." Weather condi­administers the tests, announced an 
Nationwide it could go up, and at the

increase of two points in the verbal See HIT AND RUN, page 4 
same time NO could get a drop be­section of the test, and one point in cause we had a bad year." 

the mathematics portion, raising the According to Leonardo, Notre 
L'ommunitymourns
national average scores to 426 and Dame has received more applica­466 respectively. This marks a small tions since it became co­but sudden improvement on perfor­
educational. The more applications · · Suspectinshootings jailed 
mance results, which have been received by the University, thesteadily declining since i963. 
greater the variety ofscores.

A College Board statement, WILKES-BARRE, Pa. ( AP) Shocked outside his cell. It is · a suicide house and handed over an AR-15 however, cautions against making "Average scores here run in the residents of two communities watch," said prison Sgt. Bernard semi-automatic only after a friend, comparisons between states, 1200's," Leonardo said. "That's not a mourned at church services yester­Pepperling. "He asked. to be left Robert Brunson, convinced him the 
schools, and school districts on the minimal or cut-off line. Average day for 13 victims of a shooting alone, and nobody's talking to him. children were alive. basis ofSAT scores because "the per­means average... The scores do not spree as a prison guard accused of \X'e had Sunday church services but 
"He wanted to die; he told me it centage of high school seniors who guarantee anything. It's possible for the killings sat in jail under 24-hour he didn't ask to go." was a good day to die," Brunson said. 
take the tests varies widely." The a student well above i200 to get guard to prevent a suicide attempt. Police said Banks, 40, a former 
"I told him, 'No, that there was a lot percentage of test-takers is an im-. rejected as well as for a student "He said he was going to kill him­convict and mail-order minister, 
more to be gained, that there were portant factor in determining such below that to get accepted." self here, and nobody was going to killed s~ven .:hildren, five of them people out here who cared. Ifhe had results. SAT scores, adds Leonardo, are stop him," said Margie Collins, a his own, and six adults duringthe at­

known they (the children) were all Notre Dame's admissions office only one ofseveral areas that receive nurse at the Luzerne County Prison tacks on his house here and on a 
deceased, he would have forced the has not noticed much change in the attention ofthe admissions com­who examined George Banks after mobile home in nearby Jenkins 
issue for police to kill him." their applicants' SAT scores. mittee. Others include high school he surrendered Saturday at an empty Township. The slain adults included 
"Generally, the scores have always records, extra-curricular activities, house where he had holed up for four women who had borne his "Tears were running down his gone up," Pat Leonardo, assistant student essays, and letters of recom­seven hours after the shootings. children outside marriage. face," Ms. Collins said in describing 
Banks' condition as she conducted

director ofadmissions, explained. mendation. "We have two men constantly Throughout this northeastern Pennsylvania city, clergymen the routine medical examination re-. ' remembered the dead in prayers quired of all incoming prisoners.Hewlett-Packard during Sunday services. At Holy "He said, 'They lied to me, they lied Saviour Cath<>lic Church, a Mass was to me. I never would have come out offered for Raymond Hall, 24, who of there· if I knew my kids were

New computer improves system 
was shot near Banks' home, ap­dead.' parently after he left a party nearby. 
"He said he had .been drinking a By CHUCK KRILL According to Hichard Spencer, as­conversion process to the new sys­Authorities have given no motive 
fifth of gin a day for four days," Ms. News Staff sistant provost for Computing, the tem will be lengthy. Spencer tor the shootings, but say Banks was 
Collins said. "He was totallyreoganization became necessary be­predicts, "It's going to take us two to involved in a custody dispute with when saw him He
coherent I ... 

The capabilities of Notre Dame's cause "we were looking to increase three years because it's a whole new Sharon Mazzillo, one of the first to 
refused any medication. He said he computing system have recently our productivity." The IBM was not concept." die, over their son, 5-year-old Kis­
wanted a clear and straight head." been enhanced by the addition of a meeting the needs ofadministrative, Accompanying the division of smayu. The boy was shot through 
Banks was arraigned on five

new computer. research and teaching operations computing resources between the the head as he slept. 
homicide charges, and District At­Hewlett-Packard is the manufac­because "administration had grown university's two major computers is Banks was on leave from his job as torney Robert Gillespie indicatedturer of the new machine, which to be about 30/ of the load on that the Academic Computing Plan, a a tower guard at the State Correc­nine other counts would be filedwas installed in the Administration mainframe," he said. study which is being formulated to tional Institution at Camp Hill. He today or tomorrow. He was orderedBuilding last June. Spencer claims that the way in determine the future computing got the job in 1980 even though he held without bail for a preliminaryWith the arrival ofthe new system which the new computer stores in­demands in research and teaching had served 7 years for a 1961 at, hearing Oct. 6.

comes a reorganization of comput­formation makes it better suited areas. tempted robbery. ing responsibilities for the Comput­than the IBM to administrative func­According to James Wruck, direc­"They told him to come home and County Coroner George Hudock, ing Center's IBM mainframe. tions. Instead of storing data in in­tor of the Computing Cer.ter, "We see a psychiatrist," said Banks' mot­who conducted autopsies on the Research and teaching needs will dividual files as does the IBM, the would like to assess our current her, Mary Yelland. She said he began victims, said that some ofthem were still be handled by the IBM com­Hewlett-Packard provides "one limitations, then ask faculty what having "problems" three weeks ago, surprised while they were watching puter, while administrative func­central authoritative bank for data," t they expect to be able to do in the but did not elaborate. television, while others were killed tions will gradually be shifted to the he said. After the shooting spree, Banks as they slept or as they tried to ftee Hewlett-Packard. Because of this difference, the See COMPUTER, page 3 barricaded himself in an empty after being awakened. 




News Brie/§ 
a, lbe <Jhsen•er and !be .4ss"ciated Press 
A total of $150 was taken from a group of Notre Dame students during a Friday night party at their house on South Bend Avenue. According to one ofthe victims, the money had been placed • in an upstairs room before the party. As yet, there are no suspects in the robbery. -The Observer 
When Central Park zookeepersstopped the man from climbing into a lion cage and the ekphant yard all he said was, "You have to get close to the animals." They found his body yesterday morning -in the polar bear cage. "The bear was toying with his body, flipping it into the water, out of the water," said Of­ficer Fred Elwick, a police spokesman. An autopsy yesterday indi­cated the man was killed by the 1,200 pound bear, not by a fall from the cage's spiked 12-foot fence, according to Dr. Elliot Gross, the medical examiner. Gross said the death resulted from multiple in­juries, including extensive head cuts, hemorrhages in neck muscles and puncture wounds on the chest and arms. -AP 
A 20-year-old man was abducted and buried for four days before being rescued yesterday shortly after authorities arrested three people, police in Santa Fe, Texas said. One ma11 al­legedly involved in the abduction and demand for 55,000 ransom remained at large yesterday. He was being considered "armed and extemely dangerous," said police Lt. Mike Barry. Michael Baucom was taken from his home here shortly before midnight Tuesday, and put in a wooden box with his hands tied behind his back and buried in an oil field near New Caney, about I 5 miles north of Houston, early Wednesday, Barry said. He said Montgomery County sheriff's deputies arrested three people Sunday morning, and one of the suspects led authorities to where Baucom was buried. "He is in good condition, a little stiff and sore, and completely filthy dirty," said Barry. Baucom was checked by emergency medical technicians at the sheriff's office, and refused to see a physician, Barry said. -AP 
Several homes were washed away and -police -with -bullhorns helped evacuate up to 1,700 people after a dam broke uphill from the resort community of Bishop, California yesterday, freeing the rainfall swollen North Lake. The Southern California Edison dam, about 25 miles west of Bishop, broke at about 9 a.m., and destroyed several homes in the tiny uni­ncorporated community of Aspindell, said Dave Walizer, state fire marshall for the Bishop area. "There's been considerable damage," he said, adding that there were no reports of injuries. By early after­noon, 1,700 people had been evacuated from the northeast section of Bishop, which has a population of 4, 100, said Mike Brown at the Office ofEmergency Services in Sacramento. City officials declared a state of emergency and police drove down streets with bullhorns asking residents to leave. -AP 
A 49-year old Chicago man apparently killed himself after losing at least li1 million in an alleged brokerage fraud, police say. Fred). Ness, 49, of Northbrook, was found dead in his apartment Friday, Cook County Sheriff's spokesman Dave Andre said Saturday. A suicide note also was found, he said. A judge suspended a brokerage house's operations Thursday after it was accused of using clients' money to speculate in futures markets. Andre said Ness "suffered a major loss of seven figures," one of 400 investors who were allegedly defrauded ofa total of 530 million by Financial Partners Brokerage Ltd. 
Unless someone claims them this week, about 60 million clippings from the New York World Telegram and other defunct newspapers will become landfill trash, officials say. The clippings are being saved in 256 file cabinets and 500 boxes in the University of Missouri's record center inside limestone caves here. But school officials say the clippings, acquired by a former dean, cost about S1,000 per month to store. LeRoy Morrison, univer­sity records manager, said "you just can't keep everything." The clip­pings will be thrown out unless someone offers to take them by Oct. 1, the Kansas City Star reported Sunday. -AP 
Prince Andrew brought his mother, Queen Elizabeth II, a souvenir from the Falkland Islands War-a spent British shell casing shaped into an ashtray, the Sunday Mirror reported. A buckingham Palace spokesman said he had "no information" on the report and noted: "It's a private thing." The newspaper quoted Andrew's fellow pilots aboard the aircraft carrier Invincible as saying the 105mm Howitzer shell was used in an attack on Argentine posi­tions. The paper said the shell case was ferried to the carrier by the pilots, polished and shaped by an engineer and presented to the prince. The queen greeted her 22 year-old second son, a navy sub­lieutenant and helicopter co-pilot, when he returned from the 74­day Falklands conflict on Sept. 17 aboard the Invincible. 
Considerable cloudiness and continued cool today with a 20 percent chance for light rain. Highs in mid 60s. Partly cloudy and cool tonight with lows in the low 50s. Tuesday, partly sunny and a little warmer with highs in the low 70s. -AP 

--......-·= -­
Monday, September 27, 1982 -page 2 


Begin's dead ~nd journey 
As the details surrounding the tragic killings at two Palestinian refugee camps in Lebanon became known last week, more light was shed on the Begin govern­ment and where it is taking Israel. 
More specifically, Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin and Defense Minister Ariel Sharon cannot be trusted. Though they denied that the Israeli Defense Force were to blame for the bloodbath, they admitted that the JDF gave Christian Phalangist soldters permis­sion to go through the camps in search of terrorists, yet did not monitor the "search". Meanwhlc, what little remains of Begin's public support began to erode as the prime minister ignored calls for an independent inves­tigation into the tragedy. Begin is alienating what Israel needs most right now--friends. 
The denials began shortly after the news of the kil­lings was made known. 
"...All the direct or implicit accusations that the Is­raeli Defense Force bears any blame whatsoever for the human tragedy are entirely baseless and without foundation" declared the Israeli cabinet in a statement released last Monday. The statement, under the heading "Blood Libel" ran in full-page ads in newspapers across the U.S. last week. 
Just two days after the 
statement was released, 
Defense Minister Sharon, in 
an appearance before the Is­
~fFU6-tE 
C.AMP
raeli parliament, admitted 

SHATI LA 

sible for what happened. 
If that failure doesn't cast a shadow over Israel's role in the whole affair, then Begin's refusal of an independ­ent investigation into the matter should raise some suspicions. 
Begin has forbidden an independent investigation on the grounds that it would imply that Israel had a hand in the bloodshed. On the contrary, the refusal leads to the implication. Does Begin have something to hide? If not, why not let a commission investigate the matter and clear Israel's name? 
Israel's supporters have said as much. Aletter, signed by 31 congressmen, was sent to Begin last Wednesday. The seven Republicans and 24 Democrats, who iden­titled themselves as "friends of Israel who deeply 


that the IDF, based in Beirut, had given the go-ahead to -----~ the Phalangists for their\ search-and-destroy mission, _,_____ assuming that the soldiers would go only after ter­rorists. 
"In the coordinating meetings, it was stressed that the action was to be against terrorists and not to harm the civilian popula­tion, and especially women, children and the elder­ly...We did not believe that the Phalangists would act thus..." Sharon said. 

Sharon's defense is weak. When a group of soldiers, still angry over the murder of their leader, President­elect Bashir Gemayel, are sent into camps holding people they suspect might have been responsible, determination of identities probably will not be foremost in their minds. 
Opposition leader Shimon Peres pointed this out in the Knesset when he told Sharon "You don't have to be a political genius, or a decorated general, it's enough to be a village policeman to understand ahead oftime that the militia -in the wake of the murder of their leader -were more liable than ever to sow destruction, even among innocent people." 
All right, maybe Sharon didn't know that they were letting a fox into the henhouse (which, like Peres, I find doubtful). Even so, because the IDF were in Lebanon to keep the peace (or so said the Israeli government), they should have watched the Phalangists closely during their search. In my eyes, the failure of the IDF to fulfill their peace-keeping mission makes them in part respon­believe in what Israel stands for", said that "the failure to undertake such an inquiry will be widely interpreted in the United States as an in­dication that there was a measure of Israeli involve­ment in this sorry affair....lf such an impression becomes widespread, it could...have very great con­sequences for the future relationship between our two countries." 
In addition, Vice Presi­dent George Bush, in a speech before the Washing-
Press Club last 
Thti'rsday, said that until such an investigation is made, "there will be clouds" 
over the status of U.S.-Israeli relations. 
It's difficult to say right now whether or not those 
clouds will clear. If they don't, Begin has no one to 
blame but himself. With his intransigence, Begin is 
alienating the only friends he's got, and he doesn't seem 
to care. He is recklessly leading Israel along a dead-end 
road ofcontinued turmoil in the Middle East, and if he 
keeps this up, no one will be there to help him out at the 
end. 
Who will pay for all this? Not Begin, but the 
beleaguered peoples ofthe Middle East, who have seen 
enough sadness to last a thousand lifetimes, and who 
should not be dragged further down a path of misery. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the l'iews of the author, and do not necessarily represent the views ofThe Observer or its editorial board. 
The Observer ·Design EditorJ.P. Keyes, Amateur Angler Design Assistant..... Tommy Worm Seller Layout Staff......... Cathy Ann, A small fish (Keep Her') Typesel/ers .... Tantor of Mishawaka, (The Dera<l Ro<l ), ). McLennan (Day l'isher) Notre /)ame/Jay Editor. Cin<ly Col<llleer Saint Mary•'s College nay Editor.... Kathy (The Ice) News Editor. .................... Dave (The Pole) Copy Editor..... .. ......... Kathy ( Th.-llait) Features Layout ..............jo.-( Th.-Hook) Editorial L(lJ'OUI... ... Valerie ( Th.-Wat.-r) Sports Copy Editor. Chris (Sperm Whai.-­:-.I.D.) 1)•pist.......... .. .... :-.lonica (A Col<l fish) Photographer..... (;!c:nn (The Cahin Boy) Guest Appearances . ... Mike (The Motor) An lc.-Chest, Facial Extrc:mities, M.D. 20· 20, Captain RrU(.'t", Paul-call me l~hmad. If it's not one thing, it':-, two...  
The Observer 1 USPS 598 9201 1s publ•shed Monday through Fnday and on home foutball Saturdays except dur1ng exa•n and vacation penods The Observer IS published by the students ol Noire Da•ne and Satnt Marys Col lege Subsu•pt•ons <nay be purchased for $25 per year 1St 5 per semester) by wnt111g The Observer , P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lndtana 46556 The Observer 15 a •ne•nber of The Associated Press Atl repruduct"J" nghts are reserved Second c tass postage pa1d at Notre Da•ne ln.:11ana 46556  




·--------------------­·fhe Observer Monday, September 27, 1982 -page 3 
Hy Wednesday 
BEIRCT. lx~~~~~~ ~~~m~~~~~l< ~=,~~~ei~:~,~val r-~~J\ 
raeli military command said yeMer­
day its forces will be out of west 
Beirut and the international airport 
by Wednesday. but no date was an­
nounced for complying with Presi­
dent Reagan's demand for a total 
pullout from the Lebanese capit t al 
before U.S. Marines enter the be­
sieged city. 
The announcement yesterday in Tel Aviv pointedly stated that the Wednesday withdrawal was being worked out in coordination with the Lebanese army and involved no other parties. It marked the first time Israel set a date for leaving 13eirut's 
• • • compu ter 

continuedfrom page I 
next few years. That way, we can 
matcb the equipment with the 
problems they are working on and 
the scope oftheir use." 
· Plans such as this one are impor­tant in Spencer's view because he anticipates a general increase in computer use in the future. He says, "You can't wait until the demand hits you. We have computing resources here, but ifwe don't know what the demands are, we can't sup­port them." 
~~ ....,..~~-~~~~~
..........~. 

i  COMPLETE  ~  
i  BEAUTY  1  
~  SERVICE  ~  
lFASHION  I  
~  FLAIR  { 


I BEAUTYJ 
~a,SALON 
~I.:, · \ *REDKIN i ~ ' -' ~ SCIENTIFIC I ~ HAIR CARE CENTERi ~ Precision Cutting, Per~s. ~ i Correcting Hair Coloring ~ i Next to Cira's Restaurant ~ ~ Evenings by Appt. i i ~ 
~ 2009 Miami i ~ 288.0733 ~ 
.......................~.~....--.~· ................,._......,...f 





Sophomores 
~~Informational Meeting 
Arts and letters Semester 
LONDON 

PROGRAM 
Tuesday, Sept. 28, 1982 
7:30PM library Auditorium 
Sept 15. Israel's Foreign :\-linistry said ~-esterday the withdrawal from all of Be1rut would take somewhat longer, without giving any date. 
An estimated 800 l'.S. :\larines had 
been scheduled 10 land in Beirut 
yesterday to join French and Italian 
peacekeeping troops in an effort 10 
help the Lebanese government 
reassert its authority. but C.S. 
presidential envoy Philip C. Habib 
was said to have told Israeli oftlcials 
the Marines will stay offshore until 
all Israelis left Beirut. Italy and 
France also said their troops, though 
ashore, are not deployed. 
In Washington, White House spokesman Mark Weinberg con­'firmed yesterday that the landing of the Marines was contingent on the Israeli withdrawal from the entire Lebanese capital, and not just from 
\.Uk( t-.nr '--1''-' -n-n-;.1·, 

C()ltl/HIJNIIC!lllii()N -.~~~fr llrlfrlillli(fc ~\t()~I[)A\'/ lfllll"'\ ~ffl[!lll~~ 11 ~ 
Masculine/feminine 119651 
Jcar-L~c Gooaro France B & W 103 m1n 
I" ~~e,cn w~!~ C:nqLsn ~uOt1t1es 

LOOSe v Da5eO on two S~Cfl stor•es Dy Guy oe Maupassan: Le s.gne 
a~a La Fe,-.m~ ae Pau• Mlf exam.nes tne ferment ot the s•xtres. ex­
:.> 0' rg :re ·eaeons of youtn tO VIOlence pOI•trCal proteSt SUIC•de b•ttn 
'('0 "0 arc a· :~e O!"er proo•ems tnat o•agueo t~e era of V•etnam 
f\nnenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum Admission
2

"---lr1() ~ lltl71ti lr 7pm $ ·o o ..,j 


UNITED WAY STUDENTCAMPAIGN 
~OLLECTIONS IN ALL DORM~' BY SECTION LEADERS 

STUDENT FAIR SHARE $2 
• 


'TVotre Dame is a caringplace,, 
About 6"70 Italian marines and 
paratroopers arrived in the Beirut 
port yesterday. Italian Ambassador 
Fanco Lucioli Ottieri said thev 
would not be deployed in we~t 
Beirut until the Israelis are out. 
Ottieri said the Italians would es­
tablish barracks at a school in 
Baabda, fi.ve miles east of Beirut, and 
in other nearby schools. 
Sixty French troops yesterday moved into an area near the Sabra and Chatilia camps where hundreds of Palestinian and Lebanese refugees were massacred by Christian militias Sept. 16-18. Maj. jean-Claude Vii­levielle, a spokesman for the Frencb forces, said the troops are mostly en­gineers "on a humanitarian mission" to sweep for mines while the digging continues for bodies of more mas­sacre victims. 

lntczrczstcz in takinG a class in 
Ballroom Dancing? 
It's still not too late to sign up for the Ballroom 
anee Class which is being HELD ON SAINT MARY'S CAMPUS HALL LOUNGE BASEMENT FROM 6:15p.m• to 7:45p.m. 
NEXT SCHEDULED CLASS DATE: SEPT. 29. 
SIGN UP NOW IN THE SAINT MARY'S STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE 
PHONE: 284-4561 

COST IS ONLY $25 FOR FIVE WEEKS 
i
d,_.•.. .·,r·-~ 



This offer is limited to , • ..., Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students only! 


Organizational Meeting 
Mon. Sept 17 7:30 Lafortune little theatre 
Discussion of October Bus New Members Welcome! 
~;;r:·:m· =w.&~~m•W?=~~,~ :..k -~~w~~-~-.·~,.~~=-v<dU??f-4'4--7­


-----·-------·--~--------------­
The Observer Monday, September 27, 1982-page 4 

A Midland firefighter and a resident help a victim of a plane crash in Midland, Texas on Friday. Four passengers were on the twin engine Beechcraft Barron which crashed into some apart­mentsjust westoftheMidandAirPark. (AP) 

~periodic donations' 





Board plans United Waysupport 
By MARY ANN POTTER 
News Staff 
United Way, Oktoberfest, and various hall and class activities were 
the  topics  discussed  at  the  Saint  
Mary's  Board  of  Gover nance  
meeting last night.  

To better inform the Board mem­bers about the United Way program, Patricia Pilger, the co-chairman of the United Way of Saint joseph County, spoke at the meeting. According to Pilger, "United Way was invented for preventing repetitive fund raising." 
Some agencies would get large donations and other needy organiza­tions would get very little. United Way distributes its donations to its 34 agencies, unless the money is ear-





~-----------------~----~----------------------,
Iorr\ 1 Atby's Re9. Roast 1° ('S\1 Atby's Beef'n Cheddat 1 I Beef Sandwich & I ' ~ \Sandwich & medium II -medium Soft Drink I b -Soft Drink I
tor only••. tor only... 
1c::==, ::>Good thtu 10-10-82 1 C>?C.ood \hru 10-10-82 · I 
L--------!~~~e1~~------l---------~~-'P..~<:~-----J
16545 Cleveland Road. Granger 3425 L1ntolnway West. South Bend 110 E Mel< 1flley M.sha.... ak<J {across from Un"1vers1ty Par( Maf/J (LaSalle Squ;ue Shoppmg Center} f Town & Country S'lopp1ng CentPr J 
SZ709 U.S 31 North Soutl'l Send 1807lmcolnway Easl South Bend .1615 Mtamt South BPnrl rNortrt V1/lage Mall I rP/aylandJ rarrosc; from ScCIIt..,dc~Jr M,JIIJ 
marked otherwise. five representatives would organize 
Vice President ofAcademic Affairs one campus wide event to raise Beth Tighe stated that the board money for United Way. In addition, "would like to set up something that the four classes could contribute would give periodic but steady money through various fund raisers. donations to the United Way." Hall decorations for the Oktober­
It was proposed that there be a fest must be up by Tuesday, October representative from each of the tlve 5 at 11:00 p.m. The judging will take halls to organize a small fund raising place the morning ofOctober 6 and event for that hall. Together, these the winner will receive a plaque. 
Hitandrun 

continuedfrom page 1 
tions at 2:15 a.m., the time of the accident, were overcast with ground fog. 
South Bend Police have released no official report on the accident; however, one officer speculated that Mannion and Mcinerny were walking together southbound on South Bend Avenue. When they were struck, Mannion appears to have been thrown to the shoulder, while Mcinerny was carried by the vehicle f(>r several hundred feet 
before falling to the pavement. The fact that Mcinerny's shoes were found near Mannion supports this theory. 
South Bend Police are urging anyone with information regarding the accident to call 284-9306. 
Mcinerny is a native of South Bend. Her father. Ralph M. Mcinerny, is Director of the Medieval Center at Notre Dame. Mannion's home is in Fayetteville, New York. He is a member of the College ofArts and Letters. 

North by Northwest •' · :. ····: "· · . , usA , . 
1 . '··.: d I I .:., I~····· .', ·•· -~ ('0('·(Ju.:.!-r"\(..; 0 .l'lto a"""'J ,'," d .-,.:tt' .. ~ I ' ~ .•. ,. r"•" ] ....... a '.:tc~:·( ry-~J· R>J'>'"'.'T'tJ'• 
. • •• •• ·· :~· i'-Gra,-,! d .. a.•· tJ, r,,,~,·.•· ,l'' ,..,., • ·.~ ...... ..,. a,., . 
Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum Admission 
~--lr'u ~ 11 tE71ti lr 9pm $ 2 · oo 


li&~IIJ.I:IJ;I,.;,;IIIIIII fl~Y 11·11111 
~r:iTERE~TtU ~r:i REPRE~tr:il ~r:iiJ THE Ll]LLE(jE l]f ~L~E~LE 
I:ICIImiiiBBtlll 

nH[]UliJ nUBr:l~T r:if'r:lt f'~IJ BR~tf ~T f'Ttr:lEr:iT (]f PURP[]~E BEf[]RE SEPT. 29TH T[] STUUEr.iT C[]Ur.iCU. C/[] THE []ff~CE []f UEflr.i []f SC~Er.iCE Rr.l 2 2 9 r.i~EUl{JLflr.i[) 
------------------~ 
Editorials 

Monday, September 27, 1982-page 5 
Of status and hierarchy 
No person at Notre Dame is without a title. best for evervone else. And though at times as they need not risk the chance of discover­There are students, faculty. administration thev mav be. correct in their mind-reading, ing th~ir own direction. Once one becomes and staff. Within each ofthese divisions lies an the~· no~ethdess hide behind their titles and locked within the cedar chest of a title, he 
intricate network of names, authorities and pos.itions as if they fear a backwash from becomes just another one of the parts of the pretexts by which one must speak with anoth­below. student body mechanism, considered dif­
er. It is a system which establishes suppvsed The facultv, too. suffers from an inbred ferent only because he conforms to a order and involves all in a game which pride. one of.accomplishment and academic supposed individualistic facade which others promotes the selfish me-first syndrome and authority. We all know of the professors who establish for him. 
which strips personality from each person. In lecture verbatim from their own published ar­And of course, this annual cycle feeds on short, the process of these roles and the in­ticles and who pompously consider them­the lack of personal will-power and desire to sipid role-playing produces automatons selves the last word in their specific topics. be accepted. This individual conformity which fit in, not persons who fit titles around The jostling between instructors, assistant becomes no longer a creative attempt to help 
them. professors, associate professors, and profes­the good of the whole, but becomes a worth­sors lends a hectic and frustrated air to faculty less show of pedantic terminology and shal­politics. low ideology.
Paul McGinn 

The great debate over the allocation offloor And below all these levels lie the staff space in the new faculty office building members -in number and dedication, the
For What It's Worth 

presents a prime example of the petty con­greatest; in respect and admiration, the most cerns ofsome faculty members. When Fr. Hes­maligned. These are the men and women who serve the prima donnas known as ad­
Few are oblivious to the vast scope of this burgh announced that all 254 offices in the ministrators, faculty and students. These are
status-conscious campus. Each administration new building would be 120 square feet, many member, teacher, student and staff person teachers were outraged. Within the faculty the warm-hearted and conscientious persons participates in a hierarchial pecking order by were those who actively sought to instill a who clean, protect and feed us, only to be abused because they obey the rules.
which there is a time and a place for everyone. hierarchial arrangement of office size by which those holding endowed chairs and These are the men and women who must
In true-to-fashion form, the administration 

those tenured would have larger offices than get up early, slave over machines, and politelystands above all other bodies. From the presi­assistant professors and instructors. It is to respond to our sarcasm. These are the verydent to the regional admissions offices, the ad­Hesburgh's credit that such equality was es­same people we should emulate, for they areministration presents a battery of duties and tablished. the real contributors to society. And in thetitles. Interaction between administration and Yet one cannot blame the faculty alone for spirit of this dog-eat-dog campus, these whoother groups consist of "Father" to "Francis," this attitude.The rigors of acquiring tenure, matter most are treated the worst.
"Doctor" to "Steve," or "Dean" to "Squiggy." 

coupled with the strains of teaching and But this long history of one atop anotherFor many, the task ofalways looking up to that 
publishing, create a frantic climate in which need not continue. We must not establishGolden Dome becomes more a psychological principles ofscholarship and·equality are for­rigid avenues by which to communicate withstruggle to deal with pompous authority than feited for job security. It seems so sad that one another, but let those avenues developofa desire w see how much ofthe glory ofthe such a group of dedicated scholars must be through unencumbered communication be­
Golden Dome is produced by the orange 

subjected to the incongruous traditions ofthe tween staff member, student, teacher, and ad­sodium lamps. 
English lecture-oriented undergraduate and ministrator alike. Each is dedicated to this 
No matter how one tries to strip away the the German research-oriented graduate ap­place known as Notre Dame; each holds a pretenses of underlying to superior, he is met proaches. vocation no less important than the next. by name-dropping, bureaucracy, and most of For the student, status is not a vehicle by We are not an four-part aggregate waiting all smugness. For if there is anything which so which to secure what one wants, but is an end for a better oppurtunity to arise, but a com­
characterizes Notre Dame administration it is in itself. So many students live for that title of munity dedicated to education for the a profound sense ofin loco parentis whereby "jock," "party animal," or "intellectual." Many present. And that dedication begins with each administration member knows what is students find this sense ofstatus so comforting equality, equality gained through respect. 
For my sister Beth 
Not 36 hours ago. I was enjoying one of the best parties srnce I had been at Notre Dame, and now I feel a little sick to know that while I was dancing and laughing, my sister Beth had been lying unconscious on a cold, concrete street. She and her date, Keri, were walking home from a party they were attending when a car slammed into them from behind ... and kept going. I have tried to understand how someone could do that. Sometimes I almos could, sometimes not. Most of the time, I have been simply numb. At this point it doesn't real ly matter. But the car hit my sister. My sister. 
I don·t have an announcement for people who hit and run, or for people who drive too fast, or drive drunk. There are always going to be people who do these things, but this time my sister was a victim. All the old cliches sud­denly mean something. I can·t possibly think of Beth as a statistic. I feel terrible, though it seems that I can·t feel bad enough. 
Friends that I didn't know comforted me and my family yesterday. I've never been very outgoing at Notre Dame socially, but I didn't turn a corner today when someone didn't have an arm around me or a smile to reassure me. Thank God for this incredible community, be­cause it has been tough, those minutes I've been alone. Hart Green, Keri's housemate, just stopped by, and we traded our muddled stories. All we know for sure is that they are hurt. People we love are in pain. 
In the hospital yesterday, Beth was responding, although she was still quite un­conscious. At times she would open her eyes without seeing. Her arms would lift slowly, gracefully, as if she were reaching, but there was no way of knowing how far she was from doing that with any real intent. I like to think that she was trying to break through, to really see and reach. My sister. 
My Mom has a picture. Beth and I are still in diapers, and lm pulling a tree branch down so that she can pick off the cherries. I wish that I could reach up and pull away that musty gray veil of unconsciousness from her ... 
Daniel Mcinerny 

Freshman year: And you were there 
I've been watching the freshmen. from my old high school came to visit for the Now, this friend is a senior in high school, to discover I had mistaken its identity. 
It's a lot of fun, especially since they're all a weekend. A freshman when I graduated and contemplating his college career. It is dif­People give freshmen a lot of hassles; they good deal more aware of what's going on in thence, he is now considering coming to ficult to envision this, because I have not seen wake them up at absurd hours, put them their lives than I am; they are still (for the most Notre Dame. I had to think back and remem­him much since graduating, and it was a little through strange, ritualistic initiations, sell part) happy to be here, and they still smile at ber what he was like, a freshman in high shocking to talk to someone who is doing them worthless items like elevator keys for 
you when you say "hello." school. I was jealous of the freshmen then, most of the things in high school that I did. I the library ... in general, we try to assert our too, because they were just out of grade tried to imagine him as a freshman here, and seniority as though it were an asset. school, and didn't know enough about realized that it was easier to remember myself 
Next time you see a freshman looking for 
Joe Musumeci 

Caesar's Gallic Wars to be afraid of Latin (or as a "frosh" -awed by the beauty and gran­the law library or some other obscure loca­theJesuits, for that matter). They were glad to deur of the campus, not yet concerned with tion on campus, before you point him in the
looking In 

be out ofthe world ofbag lunches, too glad to the prospect of traversing the bloody place direction of Columbus, Ohio, think back to worry about the radiation level in the slop that three times daily. I remember the first time I what it was like for you ... Therefore, it's an awful shame that they are Jesuits characteristically feed their minions. was surprised by the quality of the food, only When I was a freshman in high school, I all going to be sophomores, juniors, and 
didn't know what an ulcer was. As a freshman seniors someday. 
here, I didn't know anyone who had one. Now One can tell, even now. Last week in the 
I'm a junior, and I have to be very careful dining hall, I heard a freshman sitting at a table 
about what I eat. say, "You know, this is really pretty good 
It amazes many that the freshmen still all squash!" 
herd to the dining halls at precisely S p.m. and It was his hamburger. 
stand in line for longer than it takes to eat the I, a seasoned upperclassman; shook my 
food which never promises to remain in your head and lamented his loss of innocence. The 
system for long anyway. Many people wonder taste buds are the first to go. 
at the fact that freshmen never seem to mind Many ofus have become much distrustful of 
standing through all the football games, even that strange creature called a freshman. While 
those they watch on the tube. It is a wonderful we sit in our dorm rooms, or apartments, or 
thing to be able to do these silly things and favorite bars, and wonder how we can go out 
never worry about doing It some other, more . _, into the world and compete with the masses 
sensible way. I miss that. of similarly educated college grads, freshman 
I think we all do. worry if "Emits" are really as hard as we say 
Freshmen who read this will scoff and · ,·.; 
they are, and ifthe cute girl in lntro. to Theol­

say,"Oh, come on, I'm not like that at all!'' ogy really means all those thing.o; she says 
Wait few years; then look at those behind ·, . about tr:msubstantiation. Onl)' freshmen are 
you. · ... ,

. ' 
close enough to their high school years to 

It won't be long before we are all freshmata~?;remember what it means to be really good at 
again; the semesters will be too long to 1~.ink 1_ · something and actually care about it. I think 
about. I'd like to think that when 1 ·fi_~y, :' we envy them ti>r that. 

graduate, I'll still be able to look around lmd; ;,' AI I of this occurred to me when a friend . 
feel a liule awed. ;\:';/,:i;:~;~:._, 
=-~~ Ihe_-­

·~' Editorial Board DepuUDent~ag~ 

The Ohterr·t•r '' an indq,cndent m.-w~papcr pubt.~hed by the students of the t~·· 
Etlilor·in-Cbief.............................. Michael Monk Business Manager .............................Tony Aidlo· 
llnin•r,ity of Notre Dame du l.ac .mJ Saint Mary's Colh:.a,:c. It does nor nt"les~.uily 
Managing Edllor................Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller.............................................Eric Schulz
rc·flt'l.t the polttw' of the admimslration of either institution. T~1e nt>ws i~ report· 
E:~:ecu/ive News Editor.........................Kelli Flint AdvertisingManager.......................Chris Owm
t·d as ;ucuratel)· aud as objt"ltivdy as possihle. Editorials rf1'rt-sent the opinion oi 
SMCExecutiveEditor............Margaret Fosmoe Production Manager.................. Maura Murphy
.1 maJority of the hltlorial lioard. Ct>onmentarit·s, opinions and letters are the \'icws 
Sports Editor...................................Chris Needles Ctrr:ulation Manager..........................Ray lnglin
of therr authors. <olumn spa<e is a\·ariJblt· to all mcmbt·rs of the l"QCnmumty, anJ 
Editorials Editor .............................Paul McGinn SystemsManager...........................Bruce Oakley
tht· frl't' "Pfn~i~!! oi varymg opimuns on umpu~. throu.§b lftcct~. i; co"our:'Sed. 
FealuTf!s Editor ...................................Tari Brown 
PbotoEditor...................................Rachel Blount 
Founded November l,l966
P.O.Itox Q. Noln-O·.une, iN.;:;~~~ !ll')) l.i'>·~.\0.\ 


-------~ ~ --~----~~-~ 
~--S tl0 W C (~iiiiiiSiiEiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMoiiindiiiayiiii,
Seiiipteiimiiiiberii27ii,liii98iii2iipiiageii6­


Come on, ere 
I 
would likt' to sav a fc.:w words theless, when we sit down to cousin, Bill, our friend and leader of 
about a "roac.ltrip." :'-Jot one ot my recount the great tilllt'S we'\'e had in the crew, jimmy Z., and twelve 
own, mind you. bm one which I college, those craz\· roadtrips areal­other guys and girls (six each) 
hosted during the wec:kt'nd ofthe ways n1l'ntioned. whose names I never did get 
Michigan game. First though, allow With roadtrip~ held in such straight. :--Jo. they didn't have tickets reverence, hosting a kw friends for a 
me to begin hy pointing out a few hut they were LJUite conremto enjm· facts about this popular collegiate weekend can he a weighty respon­the pre-and post-game parties and sibility. Yet even my roomate)oe
pastime. watch Frank Broylt's butcher us on and!, veteran hosts ofmany success­
Chris Fraser 
TV. We wer(: told that they were ful roadtrips, were unprepared t(Jr leaving Dayton at-~ a.m. and that we 
the maddening experience of the 
should expect them at g on Saturday eighteen guests who trekked out 10 
morning. Notre Dame for that wild weekend. 
Although I'm sure our other two

features 
That's right. Eighteen guests. 

roomates, John and Karl, were:: more Strangely, we really hadn't planned 
than a hit apprehensin· about this "Roadtrip" is a sacred word to col­on having quite so many or even any, 
foreign dan that would he desn:nd­lege students..'vlention it to nearly tor that matter, hut somehow they ing upon our 4uad. Joe and I dil­any collegian and you'llmosr cer­ended up out here. Sure, we had 
ligently prepared for their arrival hy tainly he requirt'd to listen to an out­made numerous drunken invitations 
battt·ning down the hatchets and rageous (and probably exaggerated) over the summer but we had also 
stocking the refrigerator.tale ofthe world's greatest roadtrip. promised to writt· and we knew 
The St. Louie trio arrived about an As with the patron saints ofroadtrip­we'd never do /hoi. Besides, tickets 
hour late on Friday. and .Joe and I ping -the Animal House gang, if to the hig game would he impossihk 
quickly tilled their hands with beers you need to he reminded -the to get, so we figured w~: wne oil th(: 
~ fultilling an umnittcn obligation memories ofthese ventures seem to hook. But a week heti1n· tht' game 
of roadtrip ho.-.ts. It lJUickh· became always include amazing amounts of our friend Pat called from St. Louis 
apparent that these roadtrippers had drinking. partying, and JWrhaps a hit l:niversity and said that he had got­
cnjm-ed their ride in tYpical Animal ofcarousing with the opposite st'x. ten his hands on some tickets and 
Ilouse stYle (drinking. not counting:'lkedless to add, sleeping b kept to a that he and his two roomatt's. Chuck 
license plates for excitement) and it minimum. It is probably done only andJim (the St. Louie trio). would wasn't long hdore each member of 
in the cramped back seat of your be..· here Friday night at-. TIKn. a tl:w the trio was well beyond tht' boun­homeward bound '69 Volk~wagen da)·s later, we got word of the daries of!->obriety. Chuck andJim amidst the sound ofold tapes and Dayton crew. The Day!On crew c.:on­were content to collap-.c into mine 
the stench ofOld Milwaukee. :--Jone-sistnl otJoe's brother. Andrn\·,Joe's 
and Joe's bnls but i>at in~!:-.tcLilhat 
Up a hill, down a hill 
A s I departed Denmark, leaving behind the level terrain of Nor­~hern Europe, I was destined for the.strenuous cycling regions of Alpine Europe ... Some difficult ascents were encountered par­ticularly in the hilltop towns of Bad Wimpfen and Landenburg but both spots offered beautiful vistas ofthe valley below. The "Castle Road" intersects with the more famous "Romantic Road" at the wes­tern Bavarian city of Rothenburg. This city has remained as it was in medieval times, its churches and houses nestled securely in the protection ofwell preserved defensive walls and numerous gateways. 
Kevin Shottelle 
features 
...Along the way, I met a young German couple who were just 
finishing up a two week cycling vacation and were returning to their 
apartment in Munich. They offered me a place to stay ifl would ac­
company them into Munich, and in doing so I completed my longest 
ridingday ofthe entire trip, 11 0 miles. They cooked me a traditional 
Bavarian dinner ofwurst, potato salad, tea and beer. I spent four days 
in Munich and found it to be my most enjoyable European city. 
.. .I met a Canadian girl, Sheila Zeepvort, who was also cycling alone, and we spent a few days together taking in the sights before deciding to ride together to Innsbruck. We encountered some dif­ficult climbs out ofSalzburg before discovering a mountain pass which first led us by Hitler's WW II retreat at Berchtesgaden before finally opening up into the picturesque Inn River Valley. We met an­other lone Canadian cyclist,John Holland, who joined us the rest of the way down the valley to lnnsbruck. The valley was lined with towering snow-capped mountains and it was truly a scene from The Sound ofMusic with tiny chalets nestled amongst the hills and the 
sound ofcow bells clanging in the distance. It was an easy ride from 
Berchtesgaden to lnnsbruck, marred by my only flat tire ofthe trip. 
Sheila, john and myself took an enjoyable 30 mile day trip, without 
pack, from our campground in Innsbruck to the small mountain 
village ofFulpmes. We passed nuJ;t~.erouschalets and one agonizing 7 
mile climb was rewarded with a breath-taking Alpine view as well as 
an exhilarating descent. There is nothing quite like a descent ap­
proaching 45 m.p.h., tightly hugging the curves and feeling the air 
pressing against your face and body ... 
After five days of partnership, Sheila left our little group, taking a 
train from Innsbruck to points north to cycle in Norway and Sweden. 
She was a strong cyclist and had been a good travelling companion. 
John and I decided to cross the Alps together, back towards the Ger­
man border ... there was something euphoric about cycling in 
these mountains. With the sound ofcow bells, the smell offreshly 
cut hay and the realization that you were accomplishing every inch 
ofit underyour own power, it was a sensational experience. And, of 
course, there were the descents -long downgrades with hairpin 
turns. It was the most grueling day ofthe trip, but the most gratifying 
as well. john and I split up in Fussen, Germany, a city on the Austrian 
border which features King Ludwig II fantasy castles of 
Hohenschwangau and Neuschwanstein, the latter being the model 
for the Disneyland castle. John returned to Austria, apparently 
driven by masochistic tendencies, although his 18 gear bike was 
ideally suied for mountain cycling. I cycled through Alpine foothills paralleling the Austrian-German border to Lake Canstance, the lar­gest lake in the German speaking world. The lake forms a natural bor­der with Switzerland which is clearly visible from the German side. I had not planned on visiting Switzerland but the majestic Swiss Alps were too appealing and I subsequently ferried from the Medieval port town of Meersburg to the Swiss side ofthe lake ... 
I unexpectedly metjohn Holland in Lucerne and we accompanied each other to the town ofInterlaken, the gateway to the monstrous Berner Oberland mountain_ range. The cycling became extremely difficult but once again the scenery compensated for it ... I deposited the bike for the day and back-packed up to the Stieregg glacier, a tough hike and a seven hour roundtrip. The imposing Eiger, along with its twin peak, Jungfrau, ominously rose above me and there are just not enough superlatives to describe the vista nor the feelings experienced from such a vantage point. It was what I had come to Europe for. 
This is the third installmentofMr. Shortelle'sjournal on his bicycle tour through Europe. 

·-u 
Cb 
Q. 
rn co 
C")
• 

I""J"1hat "Lit! I(: 01' 1\and !'rom r(:x~t~ ... IJ Top. and tht: 
1 "Wild-Eynl ~outh(:rn Boys" of.5H Special took over the ACC Friday li1r an evening of rock' n' roll Southern style. 
..~H Special opened-up with a tlurry ofguitars and pulsating drums to get the crowd in offthe concourse, into their seats and moving to their southern style of pop/rock. 
David Rickabaugh 
concert review 
Donnie VanZant, brother of l.ynyrd Skynyrd legend Ronnie and Johnny \'an Zam of the Johnny Van Zam hand, is the band's on stage leader sharing lead VO\_al, . duties and playing rhythm guit;tr. The other vocalist, • Don Barnes, along withJdfCarlisi provide the scathing guitar work. Bassist Larry Junstrom and DrummersJack Grondin and Steve Brookins add the heat needed to throw the hand into high gear. 
Off to a good start, the band fired-up the already rowdy crowd with a house-lights-up version of" Rockin Into The Night." As the hand blared through songs 
Rockin' the 
from their platinum alhum W'ilti-J:)·etl.'ioutiJem Ho)'S and their current chart topper .\jJecial Furces ir wa~ ap­parent that this wasn't your average warm-up banu. 
Tht• most interesting t'ealllre ofthe hanJ was the precission duai-Liru.nming attack ofBrookins and (;ron­din. Their ~t\ k ~md power added more to the lin: ver­sions of .5H's hits. 
Although they played "llolli On Loosely", "Caught L'p In You" and their current hit "You Keep Runnin' Away", they surprised the crowd by skipping the popular sm<Lo;h "FantasyGirl". 

In general.38 Special put on a great show, hut they had a few problems in their stage presence. \'an Zant. though interesting to watch. seemed out of place wht·n he was not supplying the lead vocals and during his at~· tempted run through the ·.tudil'nc(:. Abo. the back­ground \'oc;tlist sn:nu:d too removed from the hand. (behind tiK drunrs and on scaffolding above the hand.) 
.5H Special. in their initial set and encore, played close to an hour and ten minutes. way over the usual half-hour warm-up hand time Limit. 

Then the blues/rock style of ZZ Top took charge of the stage and continued to keep the crowd on their ket. Ifthere were any doubts as to why ZZ Top set concert hall attendance records in the sen:nties and whv the al­
..• 

The Observer Features Section 
Monday, September 27, 1982-page 7 

N 
N -1 
0 
., 

How to judge? 
H
ow does one judge others? Some say we should judge by actions; others say intentions; still others believe that we should not judge others, that God is the only judge. 
The latter answer would he the quickest way to tlnish this thought. But to dt:cide who are our friends, who can be counted on in a situation. who will be able to take care ofa job. we must jud!,JC otht:rs. 
Ifwe judge peopk by tht:ir actions and deeds, we get a clear picturt: ofwhat these pt:opk art: capable ofdoing. But what a person will do in the future can be beller anticipated by wh)' they did the things they did in the past. 
Ed Kontady 
features 

Ifwe judge people by their intentions, we may know what they want to do, but what will they accomplish? Well, the cliche "the road to llell is paved with good intentions" has more than a little truth to it. 
\X'hen your closest and dt:arest frit:nd lu~ a visitor come up who does not enjov your compam·. and you offer to sit in another st:at, it st:ems like a good intt:ntion. To that per~on. however, it may look likt: you are ju't trving to kt:t:p awaY from her; for some unknown rt:ason. You had a good intention. but it wa.' misunderstood by your friend and ended up wrong. (iood intt:ntions are not always seen as good deeds. 
Well then, how should we judge others? I believe the best way to judge someone is by evaluating their level of integrity. 
The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language detlnes integrity as a "rigid adherence to a code of behavior." It is this code ofbehavior that a person uses, that detint:s and shapes a person's morality. 
Integrity is not soinething you are given at birth like a talent, but :·omething that mu't be nurtured with self-rt:spect to be allowed to !lower. 
A person·, title or rank in a company does not show their integrity. A quality ofa person cannot be bt:stoweJ on a person once they achieve a position high in a company. Heads oforganizations have no more integrity the day after they assumed office than they did the day before. But once people assume a position ofauthority, the level of integrity in that person quickly becomes evident. 
Integrity is a result ofhard work, self-preservation, and a true . beliefin your personal set ofethics. This is why I respect it in myself and value it in others. 
Personally, I have been known to miss a deadline by a kw minutes but when the chips are down, my triends know that I will give 110 percent to help th<:m however I can. 
This view 1 have, with a 'trong,en'e ofbeliefin my own intt:grity, seems to he an t:gotistical t:xercist:. But my integrity b important to me, and something that I want to dt:velop to a higher lt:vt:l. 
Why' Because I feel bettt:r about myself when qualities that I . respect in others become evident in myself. 
Looking at others, however, one can see that integrity is not im­portant to some. These people merely wish to get something done to further their own goals, shaping their morality around their t:gotisiti­cal visions, rather than shaping their paths to glory, famt:. and riches around their set of belit:t;. 
Ht:re at :'l.:otre Damt: wt: are trained to achit:ve our vision of succt:ss. whate\Tr it may ht:, but we can't forget that succt:ss is a direct rt:sult ofa shaping ofour helid~. Letting our vision of happi­nt:ss 'hape our belit:b will only bastardize our sense oflife. 
In one way, intt:grity is a lot like humility. Its quality and quantity is mort: apparent when you look at others than when you try to judge yourself What seems to be integrity to you, could be just a rationalization ofyour mind to fit a particular situation. 
How important is integrity? It's something that I've lately found and I am valuing more and more.every day, both in myselfand in the people I truly respect. 
An example in politics b wht:n John Anderson, then a viablt: Republican candidatt: ti>r the nomination ofhb party, went to aNa­tional Ritk A"ociation function and clearly told his audit:nt:e that he believeJ in gun control, and that he would push for legislation to 
that elkct. He lost votes on the issue, but gained respect and hopefully votes because of his integrity. Howt:ver, from that point on, his challange was never a serious one. But what's more important, integrity or the presidencv' Your answer may tell you a lot about your own integrity.· 
bum "Fandango" went multi-platinum, they were put to rest aftn the hm' trom Texa~ hit the ~rage. 
The hand. reint(>rced with a crowd-plea~ing la~er light ~how. tilled the 'outh ti<Hn~· of the ACC with their hluo/,t\ It· hoogu.: tune~ and 'ome heavy rockers. 
Among the ~lower :·blue~" ~tyle songs played were "Cheap Sunglas'e~". dunn!!, Which they donned the ap­propriate apparel, making them look like the Amish gone Hollywood. 
"Bus Stop", "I Thank You" and ''I'm Had, I'm Nationwide" provided the core ofthe steady blues based numbers that have mad~· ZZ Top respecteu in the blues tleld. 
On the other 'ide. the ol' ho\ s cranknl out tlrey \'er­sions ofthe rockers "!'earl :\ecklace" and "Tube-Snake Boogie". 
ZZ Top dfecti\ ely used crowd participation on many ofthe song,, getting the audience involved in the show. The hand performed a four-sung encore and closed the concert with the popular "Tush". 
Despite an excellent performance presence. the 
three man band had problems filling the stage. The 'ize 
ofthe stage seemed to separate them from the audience 
and make them nilnerabll' to attack from all side,. 
Though the tour wa' hilled a' the Flf.uco Tour to 
~upport thetr \\'amcr Brother~ album ofthe 'ame name, the major portion !lithe material played wa' from the h'iinJ·~ earlier worb, (in p;micular /Jeque/lo) and few cuts from the tour album were played. 
In retlection. the talent present on stage Friday rarely appears in an ACC concert double bill (With Lover­boy/Kansas and Michael Stanley Band/ Doobie Brothers being recent exception~). Both bands. al­though thev each han: differt·nt ami distinct style,, complemented each other. 
Prior to the concert the crowd seemed to he split as to which band "would blow the other otf the stage." 
\lanv felt that the chart-topping ability of .~H-Special was the main attraction and that ZZ Top was a band of the past. Others felt that ZZ Top was the musical power­house and that .:H~ Special was a commercial band that tagged along. (You know how that goes-ifyou 'ell al­bums and get airplay you're commercial. and n>u can't be good.) But in the end neither band got "blown-off the stage." .5H-Spl-cial provided tht· t;tmiliar southem rock tune' to get tile people on their kt:t and ZZ Top added a boogie/biU<.:s st\ le to keep them thert:. 
,let's IOGd it! 
Wl' takt: him to an olfctmpu' party. Atlt:r we got drenched in the rain, had to push our car through the mud on c;reen Field and tlnally were on our way to Notre Dame Aparte­
ments, we heard a muffled snore and saw that Pat wa.~ fast asleep in the 
backseat. \X't: half-dragged. half­carried him hack in and mt:rcifulh 
put him to bt:J on th~· couch. \X'e 
then settled down on the heer­
~tained rug, with folded robe' tor 
pillows, and tried to grab a bit of 
sleep heti.>re the Dayton herd 
arrived at daybreak. 
Imagine, for a moment, how you would feel if your neighbors wen: 
As you can probably guess, we wouldn't see any decent sleep until well into Sunday afternoon. Saturday was spent giving campus tours, playing touch football, and tailgating on Green Field. After the game (I believe we beat .\1ichigan B-1 7 if I'm not mistaken), the Dayton crew pretty much pa.,sed out from lack of sleep so we tossed them some blankets and scattered them around the lloor ofour rooms. (Don't worry Dean Roemer, the girls were staying with friends in Badin and Walsh.) Joe and I suggested some heavy shut-eye to the St. Louis trio but they would have no part ofit. Fortunate­

them on their way in typical roadtrip fashion, that is, with a case for the road. I stumbled back into the room and upon surveying the situation, Joe and I decided that we were quite impressed that such a colassal mess could be accumulated in just two days. Piles ofborrowed towels, blankets, and dirty shirts were strewn amidst a layer ofempty (and halt~empty) beer cans. Our sham­poo, soap, and shaving cream had been ravaged and our brand new tube ofCrest was gone. How could they take our Crest? Is nothing sacred? 
I was exhausted, hungover, and 
busilypa.,sing beers to liftet:n ram­ ly, our wonderful friend Karl volun­ dreading the week's work which I'd  
bunctious Daytonians at Hon a  teered to venture off-campus once  blown off. Still, Joe and I could only  
Saturday morning. If \'iston~ of jus­ again with thest: energetic road­ laugh as we sifted through the  
tillable homicide are dancing  trippers. They returned an hour  clothes and picked out the beer tabs.  
through n>ur ht:ad. I'm glaJ you're  later and sat on Joe who wa.' sleep­ \X'e had managed to show eightt:t:n  
not my neighbor bt·ctust· 1here we  ing on the couch. They decided  people a good time and through it  
\\'<,:rt:. )!,fOggy and dis~lll'\Tin!. hand­ more beer was in order so they  all, we had to admit we had some  
ing olll the llamm·~ (not 4uite th~·  drank themselvt:s into oblivion  good ol' colkge tun. Certainly, it was  
Breaktast ofChampions but they  while stepping over and betwet:n  a time none of U!> will soon forget.  
didn't seem to mind) while they  the sleeping ma.,ses from Dayton, or  Heller yet. wt:'ve alreauy started to  
~l10uted out the introductions.  so I'm told because l had wisely  plan a couple ofroadtrips ofour  
Tht:se gritty roadtrippers wanted  'nuck across the hall and collapsed  own. St. Louis is a fun place and I've  
nothing to do with that human func­ on our neighbor's rickt:ty sofa.  always wanted lOgo to Dayton. But  
tion ofslet:p after their all-night ride,  Alas, glorious sleep didn't la.~t  this time it will be our roadtrip and  
so we merrily toa.">ted :\:D, l'l), and  long. I was awakened at H to see off  wt: can always sleep on the ride  
Sl.l, while joe and I trit:d to llgure  tht: Daytonians and again at lito say  home.  
out a way to get back to bed.  goodbye to tht: St. Louians. \X'e st:nt  



~-~---~-~-----~-----~~--------~-~ 
~j)()~tS~/~)~~~t~·~~;S~============================M=o=n=da=y=,S='e=pt~e=m=be=r=2=7,=1=9=82===p=ag=e=8 
lh 'The ( Jhsert'l'r and !he Associated Press 
The Irish field hockey team won three matches over the weekend at the College Weekend Tournament in Sauk Val­ley, Mich., but also suffered its first defeat ofthe season. Notre Dame lost to Southern Illinois University, 4-2, hut came back to defeat Earlham College, 5·1; Berea (Ky.) College, 7-0; and Wheaton Col­lege, 6-0. Coach Jan Bishop's Irish are now a sparkling 8-l on the season, and play host to Houghton College in their next match on Wednesday at 4 p.m. at Alumni Field. -The Observer 
Saturday's weatherand a few injuries hampered the Notre Dame women's tennis team as the Irish dropped a shortened 7-0 decision to visiting Purdue. With the Irish trailing 4-0, the match was moved indoors because of the rain, but the change of scenery did nothing to change the outcome ofthe match, The Irish, coached by Sharon Petro, are next in action on Saturday at the Milliken Tournament in Decatur, IlL -The Observer 
The ND baseball teatn lost both ends of a doubleheader yesterday to visiting St. Francis College. The Irish lost the opener, 4-2, and dropped the nightcap, 4-1, in a game called after five innings because ofdarkness. Coach Larry Gallo's team defeated Valparaiso on Friday, 4-3, in nine innings. The Irish are now 1-4 in the fall season. -The Observer 
Coach Erin Murphy'sSaint Mary's volleyball team split two matches on Friday. The Belles beat Lake Forest (Ill.) Col· lege, 15-4, 15-5, and fell to Northeastern Illinois, 15-3, 15-2. Saint Mary's will be in action Thursday against Purdue-Calumet in the An­gela Athletic Facility in its first home match ofthe season. The match begins at 6 p.m. -:-The Observer 
"Insights in Sports" is the name of a series of lectures to be offered this semester by the NVA office. The first ses­sion, a jogging clinic to be held by Notre Dame track and cross country coach Joe Piane, is scheduled for 7 p.m. tonight in the ACC Auditorium. Tomorrow night at 7:30, Joe Yonto and other NO foot­ball coaches will host a session, also in the ACC Aud, on "How to Watch Football"-The Observer 

The SMC tennis teatn was scheduled to play two matches this weekend at Indiana State University, against·IS'tl and Eastern Illinois, hut both matches were caucelled. Tomorrow, the Belles play host to Manchester College in a match that was res­cheduled from last Tuesday. The match will take place on the out­door courts at Angela Athletic Facility beginning at 3 p.m. -The 
Ohsen1er 

Saint Mary's swimming team will hold an or­ganizational meeting tomorrow at 7:30 p.m. in the Regina lounge. Coach Scott Trees will preside, and all interested are invited to at­tend. -The Observer 
New Coach Mike Rousewill hold an organization­al meeting tonight at 7 in the Angela Athletic Facility lounge for all those interested in·ptaying Saint Mary's basketball. -The Observer 
'Speaking ofSports,' WSND's weekly call-in sports talk program, will feature Notre Dame special teams captain John Sweeney and safety Joe johnson on this week's show. The program can be heard Tuesdays at 10 p.m. on WSND-AM 64. -The Observer 
The Fellowship ofChristianAthletes will hold 
their weekly meeting tonight at 7 in the St. Ed's chapel. All are 
invited. -The Observer 
A course in water safety instruction wm be of­
fered at Saint Mary's College beginning today with a class at 6 p.m. 
The three-hour sessions will run through December 6 and will be 
held in the Regina Hall pool. A fee of Sl 5 will be charged, and each 
student must have a current advanced lifesaving card. For more in­
formation call 284-4408. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC ski club will hold an organizational meeting on Wednesday at 7:30 in the ACC Auditorium. Enter Gate 3 for the meeting. For more information contact Sean Chandler at 288­2204. -The Observer 
St Lou1s (LaPomt 8·3) at Montreal (Gullickson 1 2· 
12), n Pittsburgh (Rhoden 11·13) at New York (Holman 1· 1). n 
Ch1cago (Martz 10-1 0) at Philadelphia (Bystrom 5-5). 
n C1nc1nnatl (Solo 13-12) at Los Angeles (Reuss t?­10). n 
Houston (DiPmo 1-2) at San D1ego (Montefusco 10­10), n Atlanta (P N1e1<ro 15-4) at San Franc1sco (Hammaker 11-8). n 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
East  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
Milwaukee  92  63  594  
Baltimore  90  65  581  2  
Boston  85  70  548  7  
DetrOit  78  76  506 13.5  
Cleveland  76  78  494 15 5  
New York  75  eo  484  17  
Toronto  72  83  465  20  
Wast  
Cahforma  89  67  .571  
Kansas City  85  70  548  35  
ChiCago  82  73  529  65  
Seattle  75  eo  484 13.5  
Oakland  66  89  426 22.5  
Texas  62  94  397  27  
Minnesota  58  97  374 305  

Yesterday'aFleeuH1 Cleveland 4, Detroit 3 Boston 5. New Yark 2 Minnesota 2, Ch1cago 1 BaH1more 5. Milwaukee 2 Oakland 5. Kansas C1ty 4 Tor onto 6, Seattle 2 Texas 7, California 5 
Today·• a.,... 
Seattle (Perry 9·12 and Stoddard 3-1) at Ch1cago (Koosman 11-6 and Ker Oakland (langford 11-15) at Texas (Tanana 7·18). n Cahforn1a (Forsch 13-1 0) at Kansas C1ty (Blue 13­
11), n New York (A1ghett1 1 0-9) at Boston (Denman 2-3). n Only games scheduled 
BASEBALL 
Nt-TIONAL LEAGUE 
East  
w  L  
StLOUIS  90  66  
Ph1ladelph'a  84  71  
Montreal  83  72  
Pittsburgh  81  74  
Ch1cago  69  87  
New York  62  93  
West  
Los Angeles  as  70  
Atlanta  84  71  
San Franctsco  84  71  
San D1ego  78  77  
Houston  74  81  
C1ncmna.tt  57  98  

Yesterday's ReouHs New York 6. Ph1ladelph1a 4 Pittsburgh 3. Montreal 0 San D1ego 3, Atlanta 2 Ch1cago 6, St Lou1s 1 Houston 4, C1nc1nnat1 0 San Franc1sco 3. Los Angeles 2 
Today'a Games Pet. GB 577 542 55 535 65 523 85 442 21 400 27 5 
548 542 1 542 1 503 7 477 11 
368 28 
The Observer wtll accept classtfteds Mon­day through Fnday 10 a.m to 4 30 p.m However. class1f1eds to appear m the next 1ssue 'llust be recerved by 3 p.m. the bus1ness day pnor to tnsertton All classtfteds must be prepaid. 

Classifieds e1ther 111 person or through the mad 
~__I_NO_T_IC_E_s___Jj 
IS YOUR HAIR GETTING IN THE WAY OF YOUR STUDIES?? CALL MICHOLE FOR A HAIRCUT TODAY! ONLY $4 FOR GUYS AND $6 FOR GIRLS BEST TO CALL AFTER 3 AT 7850 
PORTRAITS-Drawn or Pa1nted from life. Ask for Dale Mainer at the 
WOAD PROCESSING SYSTEM $2995 64K Microcomputer.lener quality pnnter. word processing sonware, CP/M, BasiC 
Call277-7720 
NEED A RIDE TO NEW YORK CITY over all break--will pey call Gina 6553 
'_ LOST/FOUND \ 
LOST: A black W~ham Barry des1gner jacket. REWARD offered if found. CALL PAT at TONY-8744 
..........LOST; Nikes. red and while. on the North Quad. on Friday fi/17 H lound call Br1an 811441. 
tOST: 1 PAIR OF GLASSES IN BLACK CASE. BETWEEN 91111 I 1/18. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL JOE AT. 277­0815. 
LOST: Small cross '" the Engm-ing Building area. Please call 1187. 
FOR RENT 
Furmshed 5-room apt · has 3 friendly females. needs 4th. Rent now· Xmas. NO Apls. Call LIZ at4263. 
Fcmtshed home 2 blocks from campus also country house 10 mins. from N D. Call277-3604 at 281-01155. 
L..-1_w_A_NTE_o______.l 
nis very urgent !hallfind two or three tick· etslo lheOcUMiami and Oci.16 Acizona 
• games. Also ..-lour seats lor the Nov.13 Penn Slate game~ These are all a mu.t. Please call KIVIII at 2111-3177 anytime. 
Go1ng to SAINT LOUIS for the weekend of Oct. 8? I really need a nde or a raft for the MiSSISSippi Call284-5186 please' 
NEED$? Responsible. hard-work>ng per­son needed for a flexible 10 hrs a wk out­door ma1ntenence Good pay, good work. Must have transportation Call 1·936· 8507 
Need riders to U of ILLINOIS Fn . Oct 1 to Sun . Oct. 3 Call Mike at 1802 
Needed--tutor 1n 1st year Spen1sh. Call after 4, 936-9818. 
AIDE NEEDED TO THE NEW YORK CITY FOR OCTOBER BREAK----WILL LEAVE WHENEVER AND WtLL SHARE THE USUAL CALL CHRIS AT 3510 OR 8573ANYTtME 
Need nde to WORCESTER. MASS. OR BOSTON for Oct. Break Call Sue at 284­5193 
FOR SALE 
WORD PROCESSING SYSTEM. $2~ 64K Microcomputer. tetter quality pr1nter. word processmg software. CPIM. Basic Call277-7720. 
FOR SALE: SIGMA 12-string gu1tar. 1 month old Call 1752 (F~k) or stop by 809Grace 
FOR SAlE• 1980 MGB. YELLOW EX­CELLENT CONDITION, LOW MILEAGE CAU. Z72-1~9 AFTER 5:00PM 
Plane ticket from South Bend 10 sunny Los Angeles. Good thru Oct25 82 S180 nago11able. Call Patti 2723 
THE WHO & THE CLASH 111 Ponhac. Ml 9/30 Ti> 4-sale 233-6068 
CHAIR.l.CJVESEAT. TABLE. BED. AND DRESSER FOR SALE $130. 287-3469 
IL,.__n_c_KE_Ts_____.l 
~ 2 GAs for ARIZONA game call Lauren tsmc) son 
NEEO TIX TO MIAMI AND ANY OTHER HOME GAME. CHRIS-1730 

NEED TWO OR MORE ARIZONA TICK· ETS!I!I! PLEASE CALL MICHELE AT 37931F YOU CAN HELP 
NEED: STUDENT OR GAs: 3 Purdue. 2 M1am1. 2 Penn St MUST HAVE: 8 GAS FOR ARIZ$ 
Sm1tly at 1061 

HEY all you crazy w1ld people out there !! We need Tickets and Will pay you all the money we have for 2 Penn St GA's and 2 Miemi GA's. Make two really sweet g~rls an offer. you re mom will be proud! call very riCh c1ndy or much well to do kat1e at 2948NOW 
NEED ONE LOUSY TICKET TO ANY DUMB FOOTBALL GAME Call Jlm-277· 2787 
RICH grandparents from Fla want to see MIAMI game Need 2 tix. Cali 284-5050 
BADLY NEED 2 GAS FOR MIAMI $$$ CALL BAIAN-2187 
CALL ME !!! NEED 2 GAs FOR MIAMI GAME WILLPAYSSS SUSAN6983 
Need 2 GA s and 1 Student TICket for M1ami Call Paul 3405 
YO! t need 4tlckets for Penn State Bruno and the rest of the Mob from Ph1lly w111 do me in II I don t get them Money 15 no problem Call Fran 4385 
Need Iii for M1Ch1gan St call Ed 8944 
Need~ Anzona hx for Ma and Pa! Call &>lie. 284-5332 
Need 2 G.A s to the Penn State Game can raiS8 up to 4 G.A s for the M1am1 game Call712-755-3156 day or 3277 n~gh1 
NEED ARIZONA TICKETS SOMETHING WICKED FEEL FREE TO CONTACT THE RENOWN ED SOPIN SUSIE AT 277-0865 
NEEU 2 MIAMI GAs CALL BRIAN at 1165 
HELP! 1 have two s1sters who want to see these famous NO football games & parties. Need 2 MIAMI GAs to g1ve them a chance Call BILL at 1024 
Need 2 or more GA hi to _,home game esp MIAMI Big buck $$ MaurNn 5097 
ISMC) 

INEED MIAMI GAS DESPERATELY I M ALSO LOADED WITH CASH CALL 3075 
WILL PAY BIG MONEY FOR 4 PENN STATE GA TIX. CALL 312-565-5958 COLLECT AND ASK FOR STEVE LONGLEY. 
THERE ONCE WAS A GIRL FROM N.D. WHOSE PHONE WAS 7983 SHE NEEDED GA"S SO HELL WOULDN'T RAISE FOR THE GAME VERSUS MIAMI-EE (had to make 11 rhyme. you know--D1ane WILL pay big bucks. the parental units are 
very wealthy!) 
FOR THOSE WltO MISSED THE~ GAN STATE LOTTERY; I 1111... two Michigan Stale GA"e rd like to lr..lot either Arizona GA'I or MIMnl student tlx. I c1111 mllb up the dltlaNMa In 
cull. Pia-contact MICM!e s1 3713. 
T red8: 2 An zona students fiX cash For :i1 Anzona GA s Call Scott >1160 
t NEED PENN ST GAs M1ke 3261 or 3263 
1 NEED 1 ARIZONA student tiCket Call M1ke at 3261 or 3263 
..... 
two Miami tlekeiL
,__call 
.-...30. 
Thllflkyou. 
t truly need 4 M1am1 and Anzona GA h> for ChiCago area Chnst1an Brothers and U S Navy personnel If you can help out thiS poor soul and save htm from eternal damnatiOn call John at t5eo 
Need M1am1 and Penn St 11x b1g t1me Galt 1627 
FOR SALE PLENTY !MIAMI TIX! BEST OFFER CALL at 1535. 
MSU TIX FOR SALE CALL MARK 1739 
PLE:ASE HELP ME t desperately need up to 4 GAs for the M1am1 game W1ll pay SS Call Debbie at 284·4311 
I w111 pay b19 bucks for M1ch1gan State t,. Can Dave 3501 
I PERSONALS 1 
REMINDER... THEOLOGY MAJOR· 
MEETING: tomorrow 4:30, 103 
O'Shaugnessy 
Typ1ng. ex-legal secretary 272-5337 
VOLUNTEER BABYSITTEAS NEEDED. Parent1ng for Peace and Jushce Workshop, Saturday. Oct. 2 Chlldcare ava1lable to part1C1pet1ng fam1lies. In­terested 1n servmg as a sitter from 9:30 am-3:30pm Pteasli contact VSO at 239­5293 
MARKETING CLUB TICKET RAFFLE 2 GAS FOR MIAMI AND ARIZONA GAMES CHANCES 3/$1 FOR MARKETING CLUB MEMBERS AND 2/$1 FOR OTHERS TO ENTER CON· TACT MATT WESTOVER (277-4305) TIM THIAY (1651). MAAGAREl MCCARTHY (2809). OR JIM 0 HARA (3275) DRAWING HELD THE WED· NESDAY BEFORE EACH GAME 
GillE A GIRL A CHANCE' Go back & see my ad 1n the 11> BILL x1024 
ATTENTION: FRESHMEN OF REGINA Remember to vote for Oft VondrUell ·l'rae. anc1 Uu Sel*l • V.P. w.·,.lor you! 
Dear Sarge. Was 11 tamted' 
Trul~ l>appy. 
Deep Throat 
0 
At1ent10n aii SMC ctubs AllocatiOn N1ght IS Thurs Sept 30 at 4:30 1n the Student Govt Ofhce Check Student Act1vlllfiS for 51gn up t1mes All forms due Tues Sept 28 by noon 1n Student Act1¥111es Any ??? call Ml(.heline Santelfo or Student Ac· !IVI!Ies (4351) 
RIMINOER... THEOLOGY IIAJOfl IIIITING: _,_ 4:30. 103 
o·~y 
Desperate for 2 Penn St GAs1Good SSS 
Call Tom. 1417 
Need ride to Btoommgton. IN weekend of Oct 1 W1ll share costs C1ndy 284-4064 
UNITED WAY UNITED WAY SEPT 26· OCT 3 GIVE YOUR FAIR SHARE $2 00 EJN, 
I never knew how exc111ng walks could be unt1t I met you The m1ddle of the road and the stars won t be the same 1f you 
aren t w1th me Thanks for everything 
YourFhrt 
OHmaGOSHIIII I thought I had tickets; now I don't. I need T-MIAMI tlckete. II you have tickets, please seH them to me. Call Jeb at 8630 
DearT 
From Ordmary People and the sandstorm 
dunes through 2 hrs of McDonald s or 
Broadway and the Sp<1ng Break Plague, 
summmer Sundays and our ··week off?.· 
we ve made 11! I hope the second year 
holds as much prom1se as the first did 
happmess and memones Love you. pal 
K. 
UNITED WAY THANKS TO '(OU IT 
WORKS PLEASE GIVE YOUR FAIR 
SHARE $2 00 

~ 
ZINGER. 
HAPPYB 
BHAPPV WOOTLE: 

.,_. 
H1 Karla · how are you · t am hne · Mw s that closet you live 1n -I II call you last mte • . howz moms-well galla go· .lim . _:} .,: •• 
..'.,._~ ~ s, • 
Dear Lucy (A11as Muffy). . . ···r.·:. ~­Happy 18th Birthday' Thanks for beu>g suchagreaiMom _.· ~;; ·:)·\) 
Love. All your SMC,~~ , ';i~­
•'; ..... 
PW FOOTBALL' PW FOOTBALLi ;>:_;: ..~:::,:· PW FOOTBALL' PW FOOTBALL!~,;,;.~:~ ·?\,;• 
.. .. ;~~ \• 
PW FOOTBALL' PW FOOTBALL! ,"·\i: 
j •.• ~ 
. '''h-'>·· 

PW FOOTBALL! PW FOOTBALL! ··, '·· 
FISHER 4.PW 1'1/omen an>10usty awa1t a MIDNIGHT SERENADE wllh Panting Hearts and F18sta W1ndows Unlit Moo-· . day UP 
Do you know someone that needs pubhC . , abuse' Is there a spec1a1 day com1ng up that should be remembered? How abOut a secret message to that babe you saw 1n the cfmmg hall yesterday at lunch' Can 1 thmk of a better way to get the message across? Tht.n try the o...wr clu­
sili«<s!! 


The Observer Monday, September 27, 1982-page 9 
Giants sweep LA, n1ove w-ithin game 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Darrell 5, held Los Angeles scoreless until Evans slammed a two-run homer to the sixth inning, when he walked cap a three-run fifth inning and San Dusty Baker and gave up a singles to Francisco hung on for a 3-2 victory Pedro Guerrero and Steve Garvey. over the Los Angeles Dodgers yes­
The victory allowed the Giants toterday, giving the Giants a sweep in pull into a second-place tie with thethe three-game series and further Atlanta Braves, one game behind thetightening the National League West first-place Dodgers heading into the pennant race. 

final week ofthe season.

Evans' homer, his 16th of the season, came off Los Angeles starter The triumph in the rain-delayed Burt Hooton, 3-7. With one out in contest, which begari almost three the tlfth, Joe Morgan walked, Jack hours after its scheduled 4:05 p.m. Clark doubled him home, then (EDT) start, marked the first time Evans hit a shot deep into the left the Giants had swept a three-game 
Freshman Susie Panther, Notre Dame's No. I 7-0 loss to Purdue. Pantherplayed despite a pain­field seats. series at Dodger Stadium since sinf:{les player, is shown in action in Saturday's ful/ower back injury•. (Photo by Scott Bower) San Francisco's Fred Breining, I 1-1967. 
r----------------, 
t Ihe Obsenrer = t
Irish 
t MANDATORY WORKSHOP t t for all News Reporters t
JV edges 
t t
t Tues. 6:30 t t LaFortune t
Purdue 
t Little Theatre t 
One day after the Irish varsity 
~~~~~~~J handled Purdue, 28-14. their junior varsity counterparts did the same to Purdue's jayvees. 
A late touchdown drive en­gineered hy quarterback Tom Cus­hing led the Irish lOa 28-20 victory over the Boilermaker~ yesterday. . 
Two !kid goals by freshman Hat Von Wyl ( 47 and .P yards) pulled ;'1.10 to a 6-6 halftime tic. In the third period, Ju~tin Drisco t II recovered a fumble and ran it 51 yards for the touchdown to put the Irish on top, 1.1-6. 
After Purdue tied it at 15. junior quarterback Kevin Smith scored on a seven-yard bootleg to make it 20­
1.3. Once again, the Boilers pulled even, this time with .2:.38 to go. 
That's when Cushing took over at quarterback. Playing his only series of the game, Cushing moved the Irish 8'! yards in just tlve plays, the last .38 coming on a Cushing-to-Mike Haywood connection for the win­ning touchdown. 
Three Irish quarterbacks combined for 11-ot~ 16 passing for 1H.2 yards and no interceptions. Freshman Todd Lezon started and completed 4-of-H for 'H yards. Smith made good on all three of his at­tempts for 'i4 yards, while Cushing was 'i-o!~'i for H'i yards and one touchdown, all of it coming on the last drive. 
Lester Flemmons, a freshman tail­hack from Blue Island, Ill., led the Irish in ru~hing with S.2 yards in IS 
carrie~. 
Notre Dame's _I\' ~quad. now 1-0 Ye~. Onh four more hours is all that -,tand~ lwtween you and 
on the ~ea~on. plays host to Michi­your most exciting career opportunit\ Thah the amounl of !Jme it gan State's janTes nl'Xt Sundav at 
takes to complete the \SA Professional Qualitication Test (PQT). an 
Cartier Fidd. . ­
opportunity that come~ along only once a year Bul now's the time to act. 
.....,...............,..~.,_.,.......,...~.~ ......................TRAIN TO BE A MEMBE Because the PQT will he given on campuses throughout the nation on \ovembt·r I :\t h. OF AN OUTST ANDING Successfully competing on this test qualifies you for consider-TEAM ation by the :"'ational St-curity Agency. \SA is currently seeking top The U.S. Armv Reserve in graduating students to meet the challenges of its importanl communi­the South Bend area needs cations security and foreign intelligence production missions. men to become Militarv If you qualify on the PQT. you will be contacted regarding an Policemen. The Army will inteniew with an ~SA representative. He or she will discuss the specific role you can play within such fields as data sysiems, languages.
urovide the trainin~ and 

information science, communications, and management.
assign YOU to a unit near So pick up a PQT bulletin at your college placement office. Fill 
home. You will earn at out the registration form and mail it by Octolx·r:.~:lrd.in order to take 
least $1000 a year for the test on Novemher 1:\tl1. There is no registration fee. 
eekend drills and annual Graduates with a Bachelors or Masters Degree in Electronic 

raining, You mi~ht also Engineering, Computer Science or aSlavic. Near Eastern or Far Eastern qualify for a S lSOO cash language. may sign up for an inteniew u•ithout taking the PQT bonus or uu to $4000 for All NSA career positions require L:.s. citizenship·, a thorough 
hackground investigation, and a medical examination.
ollet!e. For more nformation, call vour TheNationalSecurityAgencyArmy Reserve Recruiter More than just acareer 


today: sGi~::ia 7 The NSA Professional Qualification Test. Register by October 23rd 1982. 
---.-~~~:c:--:~~r:~_..:;..;,;';;;..;~,::.~.-:__.._.....,.....;.;-;..·..;_·,.:~0....,·.......,·;.,_··...,·-..-...·,..-• ..-..•..·..•-:.!:a.J.IL··,.--·-~!!l:-~-!Sl·~~""-":e!....>l·"""'·-.Z.·Odl..;_,·"--""""U;-.:>'1·""""-~......=-=......;;;~,..-.;.,i;:"'j.,•::,···e...···-:.:::W"-'=·~·-.._.,·L·..,~;;,;,-..·=...._,.f.!_""-'-..._"""".;:....:.··-....~......J.:~.,...;:o 





Irish fullback Larry Moriarty bounces offa Purdue defenderfor one of his two touchdowns Saturday. Moriarty rushed for 106 yards, his second consecutive 100-yard-plus performance. (Photo by Pete Laches) 


The Observer Sports Special--Irish 28, Purdue 14 Monday, September 27, 1982 page 10 
Secondary: ND's primary problem 
On Saturday, the Notre Dame offense piled up over 
400 total yards for the second week in a row. The 
defensive line now has 12 quarterback sacks in two 
games, and the linebackers are compiling resume­
quality Matistics. 
And the secondary? llh, well, they were there, too. 
It was a well-oiled Irish machine that left Notre Dame 
Stadium Saturday with a semi-convincing 28-14 win 
over Purdue. But one vital cog -the defensive back­
field -still had a few squeaks in it, enough to make the 
final result much closer than it should have been. 
Like Michigan the week before, Purdue found out quickly that running against the Notre Dame defensive line is about as easy as tlunking Sociology ofSport -in other words, impossible. The Boilermakers finished with a very Northwestern-like II yards rushing. 
That left Purdue with strictly a one-dimensional of­fense, namely the passing arm of its marvelous quarter­back, Scott Campbell. And even though the running game was shot down early, Campbell still managed to throw for 289 yards, completing 25-of-.39. 
Which raises a fundamental question: Is Campbell to be praised or is the secondary to blame? In the locker room, the kudos for Campbell were tlowing. 
"He's a great quarterback," said cornerback Chris Brown. "When he scrambles, you have a tendency to look at him, and then their receivers sneak behind you. He's very dangerous when he scrambles -he got two TO's that way today." 
Cornerback Stacey Toran echoed Brown's senti­ments. "It's hard to defend the receivers when the quar­terback gets out ofthe pocket," he said. "Campbell did a great job of finding holes in the defense. Without our defensive line, we would have been dead in the second half." 
Indeed. With the Irish pass rush non-existent in the first half, Campbell was a deadly 15-for-18. After halftime, when ND went to a five-man front to put more pressure on Campbell, the junior signal-caller cooled offto 10-for-21. 
But throw the stats away. One particularly disturbing play in the fourth quarter exposed Notre Dame's most glaring weakness: 
Fourth-and-19 at the Irish 28, five minutes left. Six defensive backs tor ND, defending what everyone knows will be a pass. Campbell, under a heavy rush, unloads a long pa~s at the goal line to Everett Pickens, who drops what is a sure touchdown. 

Pickens, by the way, was 10yards behind the secon­dary. How? Why? 
Pickens' slippery hands saved Saturday's game, not any defensive gem. Ifhe catches that pass, it's 28-21 and suddenly it's September 26, 1981, all m;er again. And the way Campbell picked apart the secondary, on both short and long patterns, on Saturday, a 29-28 Purdue victory was virtually assured. 
The task that lies ahead is no less difficult. Next week, Notre Dame faces another fine quarterback in Michigan State's John Leister, who's "bombs away" gameplan nearly beat the Irish two years ago. Problem is, his receivers (Otis Grant, Ted Jones and Anthony Woods) are l 0 times better than Purdue's. 
Down the road, the parade of star quarterbacks con­tinues: Navy's Marco Pagnanelli, Pitt's Dan Marino, Air Force's Marty Louthan and Penn State's Todd Black­ledge, who's competence should be second-guessed no more after he led the Nittany Lions to their last-second upset of No.2 Nebraska on Saturday. And the next time you're near The Grotto, stop and thank the Lord for the injury to Miami'sJim Kelly, who is the best ofthe lot. 
My point is this: The key to a good pass defense is the pass rush, but the defenstve backs have to contribute a little to the cause. So far, they've been the only question marks on what is a very good football team. 
So, as the rest ofthe Irish prepare for MSU this week, they'll just be doing a little fine-tuning. But for Coach Jim Johnson and his proteges in the secondary, it's back to the drawing board. 
Saturday'a Game Purdue 0 14 0 0 14 

Injuryends rivalry 
Notre Dame 7 7 7 7 28 
Scoring 
NO-Moriarty 2 run (Johnston kick) NO-Monarty 3 run (Johnston k1ck) PUR -Kmg 2 pass from Campbell (Clark kiCk) 

Carter ready to go it alone
PUR -Benson 5 pass lrom Campbell (Clark kick) NO-Carter 6 run (Johnston kick) NO-Carter 10 run (Johnston kiCk) 

Pur NO By KELLY SULLIVAN ter, but Phil just ran harder," offered me," he told reporters in the inter­First downs 16 18 
54 Sports Writer Faust. view room after the game. "From
Rush1ng anempts 24 Net Yards Rushing 11 288 "It took a while for us to get on tackle to tackle, Larry Williams, Tom Net Yards Passmg 278 115 
The Phil Carter-Greg Bell battle track and get some momentum," Thayer, Mark Fischer, Randy Ellis 
Passes comp-allempted 25-39 9-17­

Had mtercepted 0 0 for the tailback spot unquestionably Carter said. "Purdue was a good and Mike Kelley did a great job. I Total Net Yards 289 403 has been one of Notre. Dame's fier­team -I don't know if we could couldn't do anything without them." 
Fumbles-lost 1-1 0-0 

cest -and friendliest -dashes this have beaten them any worse or not.
Penan1es-yards 2-19 5-42 Even though the Irish are without Punts· average 8-47 2 7-43 0 season. "But we just made up our mind in Individual L.-rs 
Bell, Carter still must fight off chal­
Bell's second quarter injury Satur­the second half that it was time to
RUSHING-Purdue: Gray 11-32: A Carter 5-11. lenges from several more talents. "I Richardson 3-2: Campbell 5--34: Notre Dame: P day -he fractured a fibula in his score. Some people said there were 
have a lot of work ahead of me," he
Carter 27-154: Monarty 19-106: Bell 4-28: P1nkett 1­

right leg and will miss 4 to 6 weeks boos when we went into the locker 
T: said," "because I have a lot of great PASSING -Purdue· Campbell 25-39-0. 278: -ended the fight for a while. Car­room at the half. I didn't hear any, 
tailbacks behind me." 

Notre Dame: K1ei9-17-0. 115: ter, as intense a competitor as there but I wish I had. It might have 
RECEIVING-Purdue: Benson 8-92: Gray 5-30. 
is, will mis~ the fight.·

A. Carter 4-42: Linv111e 3-33: Cra1g 2-32: Pickens 1-pumped me up even more." Freshman Allen Pinkett, the 31; Aetherlord 1-16: K1ng 1-2: Notre Dame. Hunter "Greg's been great for me -he Saturday's performance moved speedster who turned some heads in 

4-72: Howard 2-27: Attendance-59.075 (c) 
]Vmakesit two overPurdue --page 9 
. . . Items 
continuedfrom page 12 
onlv S2 net yards in two ga~es ...Campbell has thrown for 702 yards lifetime in three games makes me a better runner," said the Carter up even farther on the Irish pre-season drills, is listed on the senior tri-captain. "When I'd be on all-time rushing chart. The Tacoma, depth charts at No. 2; he saw limited the sidelines and see him break a Wash., native jumped from II th to duty Saturday. Also on hand is soph­long one, it just made me want to go eighth on the list, but he hasn't for­omore Chris Smith, who was a tail­out and do the same. It never mat­gotten the people who've helped back last season but asked to play tered to me which one of us played him with the climb. linebacker in the spring. The 

-I just wanted what's best for the "I wish all my teammates on the coaches, ironically, moved him back 
team." offensive line were up here with on offense last week. 
Carter was best for the Irish on Saturday. The workhorse rushed for I S4 yards on 27 carries, the eighth time he has eclipsed the I00-yard mark at Notre Dame. 
"I knew I was in for a lot of work when I saw Greg go down," he said. "But that was okay, because I like to carry the ball a lot." 
His coach likes that. too. "The more Phil carries. the better he runs," said Gerry Faust. "And when our tailback and fullback (Larry Moriarty) both run effectively, it 
against Notre Dame ( ';_3-of­helps our offense a lot l:lecause 
89) ...He is now fourtn on Purdue's 
defenses can't key on two people." all-time passing list, having passed 
But Carter likes to key on the Len Dawson on a second-quarter 
Boilermakers. Although his career completion ...Hard-hitting sopho­
has been stop-and-go -nagging leg more strong safety Joe Johnson left injuries haven't allowed him 10 stay the game twice with a head injury, 
on his rushing rolls for long ­but is expected to be back next Purdue is one team that's never been week ...Besides Bell's, all other 
a thorn in his side. lie ran for 1-12 Irish injuries are not serious: junior 
yards against them in 19HO and cornerback Chris Brown 
amassed I 15 yards in 19H I. (shoulder), junior linebacker Rick ."Phil is the Phil Carter ofthe past," ~avlor (shoulder), sophomore 
said Faust. tac-kle Mike Kelley (ankle) and 
At halftime Saturday, Carter had junior guard jon Autry (foot) ... 
just .39 yards to his credit. What Carter is now I I th on the all-time cau,;ed the turnaround? 
Irish rushing list. "We opened the holes a little bet-


Notre Dame taii!Jack Phil Carter ( 2.2) runs througb " gaping hole en route to his second toucbdou'fl Saturda)', aten-_)'ard run inthe.fimrth quarter that put tbe lrisb ahead !Jy their final 
----...,.,..~·--·~-"!!.,.....,,... .---~--~~' ..._._._.,_....,,.,.,.a~iii._-.
~Ft.r.~·'"""'.......-~= --~....."!', ... ..~.i':~!OI-_;r~. 
Ihe. Observer===================== 
T0 d~x=============M=o=n=d=a=y=,s=e=p=te=m=b=er=2=7='=I=9=8=2==p=a=g=e=I=I 
Doonesbury.....----__, 
Simon 

In The Rough 
r-------------------~ 


The Daily Crossword 


©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 9/27182 

Jeb Cashin 

GRil-l Cff YOOR F~\(EWITt\ Sf\NDffi~R? 
Sven)ohnson 

ACROSS 29 "The­1 Moccasin Love" 4 Before 31 Cotton 
school or machine secret 32 Kennedy, 
9 Vestments for one 13 Gl address 36 Ky. neigh· 14 Rabbits bor 16 Raise 37 Malice 
hackles 39 NHL star, 17 Aglow once 18 Lenten 40 Made 
pastry potable 20 Spar 43 Shaw, of 22 Place for music 
a nail 45 Kind of 23 Metric shark 
measures 46 Changea 24 Enlarges novel's 26 Growing name 
Saturday's Solution 

Campus 

•6:45 
p.m. -Scholarship and Job lnfonna­tion, For students in Japanese Studies and others, Fr. George Minamiki, S.]., Lafortune Little Theatre, Sponsored by Japan Club and Language Depart· ment 

•6:45 
p.m. -Meeting, Fellowship of Christian Athletes Weekly Meeting, St. Ed's Chapel 

•7 
P.m. -Monday Night Film Series, "Masculine/Feminine", Annenberg Auditorium, 


S2.00 

•7:30 
p.m. -Writers and Other Troubadours, Ruth Cassel Hoffman, Cornucopia Restaurant, 303 

S. 
Michigan, s1.SO 

•9 
p.m. -Monday Night Film Series, "North by Northwest", Annenberg Auditorium, S2.00 


T.V. Tonight 
6p.m. 
6:30P.M. 
7p.m. 
7:30p.m. 8p.m. 
9p.m. 
10p.m. 
10:30p.m. 
llp.m. 11:30p.m. 
16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 2t! 34 The MacNeil/Lehrer Report 16 M*A*S*H 22 Family Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 

'34 Straight Talk 16 Little House on the Prairie 22 Square Pegs 28 That's Incredible 34 Great Performances 22 Private Benjamin 16 Monday Night at the Movies: "On The 
Road Again" 22 CBS Movie Night Movie" 28 ABC Monday Night Football Cincin· 
nati at Cleveland 34 Phillip Guston: A Life Lived 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22Eyewitness News 34 The Dick Cavett Show 16 Tonight Show 22 Trapperjohn and Columbo 28 Newswatch 2t! 16 Late Night With David Letterman 28 ABC News Nightline 
51 Repair shop 52 Opposed 54 Wood sorrel 55 Sly 58 Curtain 
material 61 John or Jane 

62 Limerick's locale 63 Petrarch's 
forte 64 Hail: Lat. 65 Trampled 66 Addicts 67 Part of 

AMA:abbr. 
DOWN 1 Hide 2 Samoan port 3 English 
sheep 4 Expression 
of reproof 5 Fan 6 Chekhov and 
Rubinstein 7 Minces 8 Always, Poetically 9 "-and Old 
Lace" 10 Zodiac sign 11 Tiny wild 
flower 12 Import 15 Mayday kin 19 Office 
21 Lock or clock 25 "-Rosen· kavalier" 27 Footnote 
abbr. 28 Lucid 29 Bumped 
into 30 Soul: Fr. 32 Little­
I know 33 Netherlands 
port 34 Seed coat 35 Gingko, e.g. 37 R.R. depot 38 Piggery 41 Warned 42 Free 43 -glance 
(hastily) 44 Baltic f)ort 46 Moliere 
contempo· rary 47 Blackboard adjunct 48 USMA plebe 49 To have: Fr. 50 Paris subway51 Robes 53 McMahon and Asner 
56 Haven 57 Obey 59 Old Paris 
cBolidn 
_;;w;.:o:.:..rk;;,.:e;;.r____;;.;.._v_s.__-.J____________________.J
60 
For Your Information • • • 
Farm Labor Organizing Commit· tee President Baldemar Valasquez, who was recently involved in a non· publicized hunger strike to demonstrate his commitment to the formation of the union, will be speaking on The Struggle of Migrant Farmworkers in the Midwest on Wednesday, September 29 at H pm. in the University of Notre Dame Library Auditorium. 
The. lecture is free, and is part ofa continuing effort by the Farm Labor Organizing Committee to educate the community about the plight of migrant farmworkers in the Mid· west. 
For more information, contact 
Linda Powers (academic commis­
sioner) or Darrell Nolan (Executive 
Publicity Director)at 239·7757. 
Because of a change in policy at d
South Dining Hall, all stu ent workers must pass through the same checking station as the other stu· dents. South Dining Hall Management requests that students allow incom· ing workers easy access to the ValiDine checking station. 
... 


nFARM WORKERS'STRUGGLE IN THE MIDWEST" 
by 
Baldemare Velasquez,=== national president of the Farm Laborer's Organization Committee 



.. 

Monday, September 27, 1982 -page 12
S_~orts 


Over Purdue 
Irish -win war in trenches, 28-14 
By DAVE DZIEDZIC yards, completed only 10-of-21 in percentage passing, since the Irish Associate Sports Editor the second half. were able to key on the pass. "Campbell is an excellent quarter­But while the Irish defense was 
Notre Dame once again proved back," said Notre Dame Coach Ger­shutting down the Boilermakers, the the old football addage that "the ry Faust. "We lost containment on Purdue defense was doing the same game is won in the trenches" as the him a couple oftimes and it hurt us." to the Notre Dame offense. Follow­Irish defeated Purdue 28-14 Satur­"Purdue's pass-blocking tactics ing Moriarty's second touchdown, day. stymied us in the first half," added Blair Kiel and Co. managed only 33 
The Irish dominatt>d both the of­Irish defensive tackle Bob Clasby. yards in five possessions. fensive and defensive lines in the "But we got to them in the second With 4:31 remaining in the third second half, regaining .the momen­half after we learned to adjust." quarter, however, Carter and the 
tum that had swung to the Boiler­Purdue's offense, which had Irish offensive line took control. On makers near the end of the first half. netted only 42 yards on its first three first and ten from the Notre Dame The rushing oftailback Phil Carter possessions, came alive after 38, Carter broke a tackle at the line ( 154 on 27 carries) and fullback Lar­Moriarty scored his second touch­of scrimmage and cut to the left ry Moriarty ( 106 yards on 19 down of the game to give the Irish a sideline for a spectacular 35-yard carries) proved the difference in the 14-0 lead. gain which proved to be the key play contest. Each scored two touch­of the game. Four plays later, Carter downs. Football Special followed the blocks of Moriarty and 
The win was a very important one Randy Ellis into the end zone. for the Irish, who needed a victory --page 10 "It was jammed up at the line of to prove that last week's defeat of scrimmage," Carter said about the Michigan was not just the result of Campbell, who utilized seven dif­play. "It was an isolation play and 
an emotional high. ferent receivers in the first half, got when it's clogged up you just want "We felt we had to come out and the Boilermakers rolling with two to bounce it out. I was able to it this prove something again today," said late touchdown passes to tie the time and I'd like to do it some more." senior Notre Dame tight end Tony score at halftime. Carter, who became Notre Hunter, who had another excellent "We kept with our basic cuts and Dame's key rushing threat following 
game. "The pressure compared to our receivers were able to get free a second-quarter injury to junior the Michigan game was the same. often," said Campbell. "It's hard to tailback Greg Bell (diagnosed as a We knew this was a big one, espe­say if Notre Dame's secondary was stress fracture of the fibula, sidelin­
cially after last year's loss (a I 5-14 playing badly or ifour guys were just ing Bell for four to six weeks), last-second Purdue victory)." doing a great job getting open." scored again with 8:41 remaining. 
The Notre Dame defensive line, Irish free safety and tri-captain The scoring drive began when which had difficulty getting to Dave Duerson had an explanation. senior linebacker Mark Zavagnin Purdue quarterback Scott Campbell "In the first half," he said, "we were recovered a fumble by Purdue ful­in the first half, altered its pass rush reacting instead of taking it to lback Rodney Carter. Irish sopho­in the second half. As a result, more linebacker Mike Larkin, who
them." Campbell, who put on a brilliant pas­Hunter had a feeling ofdeja vu at led the team with 12 tackles, forced sing display in the first half by halftime. "When they tied it up the fumble. completing 15-of-18 passes for 159 going into the half, I thought, 'here Even though the rushing attack we go again,"' he said. was strong, the Irish needed the arm Purdue first-year coach Leon of Kiel to sustain drives. For the day, Burtnett proud of his team's Kiel was 9-of-1 7 for 11 5 yards. 
was comeback. "We were down 14-0 The most important pass of the 
and could have easily folded," he game came during Notre Dame's said. "But going into the second half, final touchdown drive. On third and the momentum had definitely 18, Kiel hit Hunter over the middle 
switched to our side." 

for 19 yards and a first down. Carter Purdue didn't hold on to the scored three plays later on a 1 0-yard momentum for long, however. After burst up the middle. 
By SAM SHERRILL and broke free of the pack, and Hunter added. "They're a great receiving the second-half kickoff, "I'm very pleased with the perfor­the Boilermakers were halted by a 
Hoosiers, refs beat Irish, 4-0 
Sports Writer blasted a shot into the left side ofthe team. But they certainly don't need mance of our offensive and net. any help from the refs. They can go stingy Irish defense. defensive lines," said Faust. BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -There As the half wound down, the Irish up for every ball and elbow us in the "The mail') difference was when "Controlling the lines was the key to 
they came out in the second half
was some good news and some bad defense seemed to tire. IU's Pete back, because they know they'll get the victory." with the momentum, we stopped Faust also praised the Boiler­
news coming out ofthe Notre Dame Gallagher missed a certain goal after the calls." 
them cold on the first series," said "Coach and
soccer team's game here against In­strolling straight up the middle of Indeed, the referee did call a bad makers. Burtnett his diana Friday night. Irish defensive end Kevin Griffith. staff did an excellent job in prepar­
the field. Gorrity made up for it at game, paying no attention to his First the bad news -the Irish lost 38:43, though. On the counterat­linesmen and issuing yellow cards Once Notre Dame found a way to ing for us," he said. "They are a fine 
4-0. The good news, however, is that cool down Campbell and the Purdue football team and they'll win a lot of
tack, Iker Zubizerreta smacked a for fouls which hardly deserved it. 
passing attack, the excellent Irish games this year." 
it was not nearly as bad as the score smart shot which McCarthy could For the Irish, however, this was rushing defense stole the show. The IRISH ITEMS-Notre Dame's rus­might indicate. 

only parry out in front. Gorrity just one game on the schedule, as Boilermakers managed a measily 1 1 defense,

Going into the game, Indiana had hing which is ranked
caught the ball on the rebound and Hunter mentioned last week. After net yards rushing in the contest. The second in the nation, has allowedonlv a 3-3 record, but the Hoosiers headed it in for a 3-0 lead. 

Tuesday's road match at Loyola, the lack ofan effective rushing game washad to be the best .500 team in the The Irish then caught •fire. Jay team will have five of its next six obviously a key to the Boilermakers' See ITEMS, page 10three losses to
country. All were Schwartz hit a nice shot toward goal 

games at home. inability to maintain its high­nationally-ranked teams in 
which seemed to go off an Indiana they coming
overtime, and were defender's hand. But, as was the case fresh off a 1-0 victory over No. 1 
most of the night, the referee 

Cross country
Southern Illinois-Edwardsville. 
ignored the infraction. Then, with a minute to play, Steve 'They're a great team, Berry beat the keeper with his shot, 

Irish place 2ndin Catholicmeet 
but it was cleared off the line by a defender. 

By NAT RICH course. Although he completed the did. That was a super team I saw out
but they certainly don 't The second half was decidedly 

Sports Writer race .W secondsbehind the top finis­there." · 
more uneventful, as a dense fog her, Wozniak bettered his race­Marquette took the lead early on

needhelpfrom the refs. ' rolled in. The lone goal was scored 

The Notre Dame cross country winning time of last week b}· 35 in the race. By the two-mile mark, its at 70:09, off a cross from the left side. 
team hosted its first major meet of seconds. runners had three of the top four Halfback Keith Meyer slid in, and the season Friday afternoon, and al­Wozniak finished in sixth place, positions.
The whole match was in doubt for blasted it into the upper right corner though the Irish ran better than even one position ahead ofteammate Tim At that point, Andy Dillon was the a while, however, as a huge while on his back. 

they could have expected, they Cannon, wlto also ran a personal Irish leader, holding fifth place. · rainstorm began right befort" Despite giving up the four goals, were forced to settle for a second best of 24:25. Andy Dillon was the Wozniak and Cannon were aboutgametime. But the teams began play the Irish defense played well overall, 
place finish. next Irish harrier ·to finish, as he ten yards back in the seventh and anyway about 45 minutes late, and especially in the second half. Gerard Marquette dominated the Nation· placed 15th with a time of 25: 12. eighth positions. By the four-milethe rain stopped soon after. McCarthy also deserved a better fate al Catholic Invitational Cross Tim Bartrand (16th; 25:13), Jim marker, Wozniak had climbed into The Irish looked tight at the start, in goaL recording seven saves, many Country meet, much as it did last Tyler (19th; 25: 18 ), and Bill fifth, with Cannon in seventh and as Indiana reeled off the first five of them exceptional. But the offense year. By finishing the race with Courtney ( 22nd; 25:22) all ran per­Dillon falling back to tenth. 
shots of the game. Just as they were did not create enough oppor­seven of the top eleven runners, sonal bests a fact not lost on Coach In all, the race wa.o; very successful getting the offense going, however, tunities, managing only 12 shots, 

including three of the top four, the Joe Piane. in more aspects than one. "Thingsthe Hoosiers struck. Paul DiBer­and forcing only one save by the IU Warriors nailed down first place "There's no way I can complain," ran very smoothly, we had a lot ofnardo scored off a corner kick at keeper. 
with a superb total ofonly 25 points. Piane said. "Our runners ran better positive feedback from coaches and19:58, heading the ball off Afterwards, Coach Rich Hunter Notre Dame had an excellent than I could have expected. Five runners alike," said Piane. "We'regoalkeeper Gerard McCarthy's and his staff were livid over the poor showing of its own in grabbing personal records is an excellent ac­getting good at holding these things.
hands. McCarthy appeared to have officiating. Assistant Coach Hank 

second place. Five Irish runners ran complishment." I hope next week goes as easily."
been pushed on the play. Hofman said, "There were seven the best times of their careers and Plane also praised the victorious "Next week" is the annual NotreThe Hoosiers made it 2-0 at 32:59. hand balls out there, two of them in the team scored a very respectable Marquette squad. "I knew they Dame Invitational, which will be Manuel Gorrity got the ball amid a the box. There should have been 

total of61 points. would be tough," he said. "That held this friday afternoon beginningcrowd of players at the top of the two penalty kicks." 
Marc Wozniak led the Irish charge didn't surprise me. But I sure didn't at 2 p.m. and involves 55 teams inbox after a free kick. He then turned "Indiana deserved to win, sure," with a time of 24:21 for the five-mile expect them to run as well as they two races. 



