• • . Flint-page 2 

VOL. XVI, NO. 134 th~.: ind~.:p~.:mknt stmknt newsp;1p1:r s~.:n·ing notn.-danll" and saint mary's THURSDAY, APRIL 22, 1982 
'Age of women' 
Flaherty calls for ne-w m.odel 
By PETE C/01TA "We are moving into an age relationships with women. She News Staff of women,'' Flaherty said. noted that the women of Notre 
Flaherty, Sisters of Charity Dame should seek to capitalize Emphasizing that women President, concluded Notre on the "powerful symbol" must have a complete and Dame's Distinguished Amer­which rests upon the Dome. 
positive understanding of them­ican Women lecture series last Stressing that she "came to selves, Sr. Helen Flaherty !"light in the Library Auditor­speak about women's beauty tum. and power,'' Flaherty called for 
urged women to move away from the influence of the male Throughout her 40 years as a the de-emphasis of women's model and search to create new teacher, counselor and adminis­abuse and discrimination. female models. trator, Flaherty praised her "Beauty is the expression of 
truth known and lived out best by women," Flaherty noted. ''True beauty reminds us of
Exam survival kit prices 
God." Describing the history of women as ''filled with struggle, 
'absolutely outrageous' 
doubt, service and accountabil­ity,'' Flaherty noted that also be supporting the Univer­''women to the ancients were
By CAROL CAMP 
sity because a portion of the seen as a symbol of evil,
Staff Reporter 
monies will be donated to the weakness, and as property." 
A company selling exam general scholarship fund;'' Flaherty described women's survival kits to Notre Dame however, Director of Financial current worth as "being' parents and students has no Aid ] oseph Russo claims that measured in terms of domestic official merchandising repre­''we have never heard of it, nor skill and sexual pleasure." semtative on campus, accord­have we received any money ''The beauty of women is ing to Student Activities Direc­from the company.'' born of struggle, struggle to 
tor]ames McDonnell. When questioned about the break through the bonds which 
The distributor of the surviv­sale of survival kits to parents compel women to be subjective al kits, the University Campus and students, McDonnell ex­to men. The crucial time of Company of Atlanta, Ga, has plained that, "After the ati­emancipation is now,'' Flaherty 
sent order forms to the parents verse publicity that came out said. 
of most ND STIJDENTS. The after Christmas, some students Formulating a plan of action company approached me and were inter­for women, Flaherty empha­offenngs include various ested in running it (a similar sized that women must know assortments of fruit and service which would be sanc­where they received their first snacks, at prices ranging from tioned by the University). They image of what it means to be 
$18.75 to $23,~0. These prices were gomg to go through local women. To do this, she said are, in McDonnell merchants to purchase the that one's cultural background, s opinion, "absolutely outrage­items, but to my knowledge, educational opportunities, indi­ous." Also available for $12.9~ nothing more has been done." vidual life experiences and 
is a copy of The Memory Book, He added, "The University expectations must be reviewed. by Harry Lorayne and Jerry did not furnish the company 
See FLAHERTY, page 4 
Lucas. Interestingly enough, with the names and addresses this book is no longer available of students or parents; how­in a hard-bound edition, and ever, anyone can get hold of a National survey 
can be purchased in paperback telerhone directory or use the mai."
at a local bookstore for $2.~0. 
The form which the company While attempting to locate a 


Bookstore prices cotnpetitive 
has sent out guarantees to company representative who deliver food that is "nutritious could legitimize its actions, it By MARK BOENNIGHAUSEN That is the conclusion of pus bookstores, the price 
was discovered that the com­ranges from $2.99 at the Univ­
and extremely tasty --not to and BOB VONDERHEIDE anObserver survey sent recent­mention a source of energy to pany has no phone listing in StaffReporters ly to sources at various colleges ersity of Kentucky to $3.90 at make up for the missed meals the metropolitan Atlanta area. and universities throughout the Cal Tech. Taken in sum, the and sleep that college students Also, the company's post office The Notre Dame Bookstore country. prices at the Notre Ca.:ne 
are prone to suffer during box is registered in the name Items surveyed ranged from bookstore are very competitive
may not have prices like 

exams.'' The company also of an individual; therefore, the K-Mart, but the prices school essentials, such as cal­with those of other college
are 

appeals to the parents' sense Atlanta Postal Inspector Gen-generally no higher and often culus books, to personal items, bookstores. of obligation to his child's alma such as toothpaste. In all The bookstore manager,
See SURVIVAL, page 4 less than prices charged at 

mater by stating that ''you will other college bookstores. cases, the Notre Dame prices, Bro. Conan Moran, thinks the 
Notre Dame bookstore is ''wellwhile not always lower, were respected in the college field"very close to prices at other and he "wouldn't trade it for

El Salvador elections schools. 
any other.'' The bookstore isThe information was col­owned and operated by thelected from private institutions, University and any profits gen­such a:s Harvard and Princeton; 

Hesburgh preparesfor 'war zone 1 
erated by the store are putstate schools, like University of back into the general fund,California-Santa Cruz and Ohio siad Moran. 

Editor's Note: The followiZ happy to hear that his son is haven't heard them because State; and one junior college -­Moran added that ownership is the fourth of a series o well and ready to be graduated the only sound coming through Foothill College in Los Altos, and operation of a bookstore by edited excerpts taken from t e in May. Everybody here has my glass windows at the mo­Calif. 
ment is the Mariachi Band In tabulating the results the university is the norm in
diary of University President been remarking about the 
the bookstore ,field, thoughTheodore Hesburgh during his Notre Dame family and how down around the pool. It is there were many contrasts there are exceptions, such as arecent tnp to El Salvador as much it hangs together. One perhaps another sign of the between prices at different t Harvard and Yale. At these

part of the United States times that not a single person universities. A Harvard sweat­schools, the stores are run as a
official observer team for the THURSDAYf.ll~-has been in that pool since we shirt costs a consumer $18 as co-op. Students pay $1 to join
SaJvadoran elections. arrived, and I don't even feel compared to $13. 9~ for a the co-op and then at the end
A lot of people gave me tempted at this point, even sweatshirt. of the standard of the year the students receive a dividend determined by the
messages when they knew I &1~\~:~lf 0 cus though the weather has been Notre Dame variety. At Prince­.. 
was coming down here, efforts war_!!} and sunny so far. ton, the same item costs $20, amount of purchases they
to try to free people who are in ] ust back from the dinner at and at the University of Cal­prison or mtssing, exemplary can hardly move ten feet the Ambassador's house. We ifornia-Santa Cruz it costs a made. Moran commented that 
Harvard's bookstore has had

activities here and there that without running into someone had a very interesting s-ession, more reasonable $1 ~. 9~. In 
problems in the past where no

must be visited, and so on. At from Notre Dame. I even mainly centering on assign­assessing an item common to dividends were paid.
these few moments free on our noticed one of the cameramen ments for tomorrow. Several most college campuses, a Problems are caused atreturn, I was able to get my with a Notre Dame T-shirt on of us made the point that all of Smith-Corona typewriter car­
friend, Ernesto Sol, to take yesterday. the journalists here in town tridge, the survey found Notre bookstores because of the 
nature of the business. Text­

care of some of these particular would simply not be satisfied if Dame's price to be one of the 
tasks, and I also called the It's been another reasonably lowest. Costing $2.75 at Notre book ordering is difficult for a
we went. to all of the reason­

father of one of our senior quiet day, and the bombs have ably safe areas in the west and Dame, this price is beaten only store, said Moran, since many 
off around professors do not decide what
students who stopped in to see not started to go by the $L 59 price at Transyl­
See HESBURGH, page 5 

me last week. The father was town yet tonight, or at least I vania Universtty. At other cam-See PRICES, page 5 



r 



NewsBrieb 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
WIND GUSTING UP TO 60 m.p.h. toppled a power line that sparked a $50 million firestorm Wednesday, burning more than 50 buildings, leaving up to 1,500 people homeless and injuring at least seven, authorities said. The fire apparently started about dawn when a live wire, whipped by the wind, touched a ~aim tree and turned it into a towering torch, then the wmd swept the flames over a square mile jsut northwest of Disneyland. Anaheim Fire Chief Bob Simpson said it was the worst fire in Orange County history and estimated the damage at $50 million, adding, "We believe there are no fatalities." Gov. Edmund Brown ) r., who flew over the burned area, called it "like some kind of war-ravaged area,'' and declared a state of emergency in Anaheim. (AP) 
RETIRED HOM. HYMAN G. RICKOVER, who 
pioneered America's nuclear-powered Navy, says the Soviet Union and the United States "have too many weapons. The proper thing to do is to try as hard as possible to stop producing not only nuclear arms, but all arms," said Rickover, 82. Rickover spent 63 years in the Navy. For more than half that time, he ran the Navy's nuclear propulsion program. Rickover spoke Tuesday night at Ball State University urging the audience to become more involved in the government's use of nuclear power. But he said he was not assailing the use of nuclear power to produce energy. "If radiation is handled wisely, then it's okay," Rickover said. Some audience members wore purple ribbons to protest the nuclear arms buildup. (AP) 
FIREMEN FIGHTING A BLAZE in a shattered grain elevator where five men were feared dead today had to . bring water through up to six miles of hoses following a blast that rocketed chunks of concrete a mile away. Officials said they thouglit the explosion, which injured 22 people, sprang from grain dust ignited by ~-spark. 
Firefighters struggling to battle flames fed by high, ~ 
winds complained of low water pressure, but were 
unable to approach the hydrants closest to the blazing 
structure because of heat and rubble. Hoses were 
hooked up to hydrants ranging from a half-mile to six 
miles away from the 50-year-old elevator, across the 
Missouri River from Omaha. The fire was expected to 
take several days to extinguish. (AP) 
HON. BOBBY INMAN, the deputy director of the 
Central Intelligence Agency, is resigning to enter 
private business, the White House confirmed late 
Wednesday. Inman was not immediately available for 
comment, but the White House released an exchange 
of letters -dated a month ago -in which Inman asked to 
leave as soon as a successor could be confrrmed. 
President Readan accepted the resignation ''with deep 
regret." The four-star admiral's speciality is high 
technology surveillance. He moved through a success­
ion of intelligence jobs until he took over as the No. 2 
official, behind CIA director, William Casey. There was 
no immediate word on a successor. Traduionally, one 
of the top two CIA jobs at the agency goes to a civilian 
and the other to a military officer. (AP) 
THE FIRST GROUP of Roman Catholic pilgrims allowed to leave Poland since the imposition of martial law last December attended Pope John Paul II's weekly general audience Wednesday, church officials said. The group of 40 held up a large red and white Polish flag as the Polish-born pontiff S.l;'oke to them. In his native language, declaring that neither men nor nations "can live without truth and freedom." A member of the group told reporters that originally 50 pil~rims were to come to Rome but that authonties wnhheld travel permits from 10 of them. A Polish priest at the Vatican confrrmed the group was the frrst to be ~ranted permission to come to Rome since the martial law crackdown Dec. 13. But he said he didn't know whether this meant the Polish government planned a general easing of restrictions. Before martial law scores of Polish .l;'ilgrims came to Rome for papal audiences, and the Vattcan last year erected a hostel for them in Rome. (AP) 
Weather will be mosdy Sunn)' and wanner today, with a high of 57. Partly cloudy and cooler tonight. 
Thursday, April22, 1982 -page 2 

Dorm safety deserves careful eye 
As the academic year draws to a close and students face the burden of making living arrangements for next semester, a long, serious look should be taken at the structural safety of the residence halls, and what can be done to improve them. 
Three incidents of note regarding dorm safety occurred this semester: two power failures on the North Quad and a sewage break in Sarin. After the second North Quad outage, it was reported that there are no emergency lights in several dorms; Farley, Breen-Phillips and Cavanaugh to name a few. 
Keenan rector Fr. Richard Conyers noted that Keenan has no emergency lighting system, in addition to other 'Jotential safety hazards. He adds, however, that he believes Maintenance Director Donald Dedrick is trying to keep buildings up to standard. "Hopefully, they're staying ai1ead of tragedies,'' he said. 
Conyers said one "hazard" is the inadequate steel treading on the stairs leading to all four 

floors in Keenan. Although repairs for the stairs have been approved, no action by Maintenance has been taken. 
Keenan was a physical wreck when I took over," Conyers said. "Now we're fairly con­tented, and we did it all ourselves. The University supported and encouraged us in upgrading the quality of our dorm. 
."It took years of planning and participation." Initiative must be taken within the dorm, according to Conyers. 
· "Structural renovation is more important for dorms such as Farley and Sorin, which are mostly wood.'' 
Conyers believes that when dorms are this old, priorities should be re-evaluated. 
Sr. Mary Lou Marchetti thinks emergency lights will be installed in the necessary dorms as soon as possible. ''Although the electrical wiring is scheduled to be renovated during the summer of 1983, she noted that the emergency light situation surfaced after the wiring agreement, and is confident that the emergency lighting will 

Design Editor; 
Gregory Swiercz Design Assistants: Ed Carroll 
News Editor: . Mark Sports Copy Editor: . Ed Typists: . Bruce -:-Tari . Margaret I 
SMC Day Editor: .] u I i a Photo~apher: . Cheryl
Guest Appearances: 
.Many, many more 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer IS pubhshed by the students ol Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary s Col­lege Subscroptoons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by Wrt!lng The ObMIWI" p 0 Box a. Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
The ~IS a member of The Aasoc:laMcl Pntu All reproduclton roghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. 1na1ana 46556 

be installed-immediately. 
Marchetti supports student mmauve in up­grading dorm appearance, but doubts that students have the time or supplies to perform major renovations. ''The University should provide these renovations --it is their respon­sibility," she said. 
A long-range dormitory renovation project for the dorms began in 1980, with older dorms a major concern of Housing Director Fr. Michael Heppen. .. ­
While dorm renovation is listed as a priority in allocating the Campaign for Notre Dame proceeds, Heppen said he "never discourages student input --as long as they don't make the final decision themselves." "There is a procedure for dorm improvement proposals," Heppen said. 
Students interested in takins the initiative in caring for dorms should subm1t the proposal to the dorm rector, who then brings the proposal to Heppen for approval. 
The Student Affairs Committee of the Trustees approved a $10,000 stipend proposed by former Housins Cabinet Head Patrick Borchers last fall to improve social space in the dorms. 
Before social space is improved, it would be advisable for student leaders to concentrate on making the dorms safe for students to live in. 
It seems both students and administration are responsible for 'oversights' as far as dorm safety is concerned. 
While students usually do not hesitate to object to administrative 'sloth' regarding dorm social space, little enthusiasm has been shown for encoura~ing administrative representatives to expedite mstallation of functional emergency exit hghts in the halls. 
The administration, although it has laid the groundwork, has been quite slow in completing dorm repairs where life-safety is concerned. The Saint Edward's Hall frre two years ago could have been avoided, had a sprinkler system been installed at the frrst indication of irs necessity . The emergency light situation presents a challenge for Notre Dame. As of this writing, no specific date has been announced as to when functional emergency lights will be installed in the dorms. The problem should be addressed. 
Observer note~----..... 
There will not be a ''Mr. Goodbar'' 
clue printed today becattse the candy 
bar wrapper was found on Tuesday. 
All of the clues will be given and 
explained at a later date. 




The Observer Thursday, April 22, 1982 -page 3 
Leisure also helps 

Bellalta stresses w·ork 'obligation' 


'Professions' series 

Sinclair focuses on engineering 
ural artistic medium of Amer­

lh LAUREL-ANN DOOLEY ica," he said. News Staff Sinclair believes the field is capable of creating prosperity
Focusing on the close ties for the masses as never before,
between engineering and the thereby proving the success of 
American way of life, Professor the democratic system.
Bruce Sinclair concluded the With an estimated two mil­
11-part lecture series "Profes­lion en~ineers functioning in sions in American History'' the Untted States alone, the 
Tuesday night at the Century profession has expanded im­Center. mensely since its birth. Orig­
A professor of history at the 
inally made up of only civil and University of Toronto and an military divisions, specializa­
award-winning author, Sinclair tion has increased greatly. 
dealt with the changing role of The field was at ftrSt com­
American engineers and integ­prised of white Protestant 
ral problems with the structure males only, resultin~ in a of the profession. 
"men's club quality" tn early

Stattng that "engineering engineering societies, accord­
incorporates some of America's 
ing to Sinclair. He said,most cherished ambitions,'' however, devotion to ambition,
Sinclair views the profession as hard work, and success solidly connected to national to~ether with a self-image of goals. "Technology is the nat­betng hard-working and hard­
'Dealing with life ' 

Poet Tillinghast utilizes maxim 
old pocketknife. 
Many of his poems describe weapons and tmages of vio­lence. Tillinghast commented on his use of weapons and violence as imagery, saying "If there weren't violence in the world, there wouldn't be any in poetry.'' 
As an introduction to his poem ''Aspens and Colorado Photographs,' 'Tillinghast said, "History is an interesting and valuable subject for poetry. But history should do more than reflect the social and playing have prevailed. 

A panel consisting of the vice president of engineering of the Bendix Corporation, the president of a resource man­agement . company and the Dean of the College of Engin­eering at Notre Dame later discussed current problems in the field with much participa­tion from the audience. 
Expanding bureaucracy was 
cited by Sinclair as a major drawback with regard to in­novation. ''It seems that engin­eering functions better in smaller ftrms," he said. 
Extreme specialization was seen as a weakening force in terms of political lobbying and the rate of technical progress was considered to be sharply decreasing, due largely to gov­ernmental regulations. , 
economic forces effecting past times. It should try to ~ive a sense of how people lived. 
Would they be exactly the same? What would it be like to walk down a small town Col­orado street during the 1920s? 
A graduate of Harvard Uni-. versity, Tillinghast has taught at the University of California at Berkeley, but is recognized for his involvement in the college pro~ram at San Quen­tin Penitemary. 



This rabbit seems unsuspec#ng of the squiTTel sneaking up behind it. [photo by Cheryl Ertelt] 

Mike Lane takes a break from football to relax andplay his guitar. [Photo by Cheryl Ertelt] 
Off -Campus Commission presents CUBSvs.REDS Tuesday afternoon, April 27 $10 includes:Bus Beer &Ticket For More information call Kathy Jurado 277-8839 
Ur.J,,,.,Jo,. JC.\11/<f:S\ /HI/\ IR!·: 

Medium -pepperont -sausage Or combo 
,u"J n.,.,.;,.,. 'lui,:kl't' .'ttt•n•ic.'t' 
Ff.. Coke: 1 U~t w/ffied. Pizzo. 2 U~ra w/Lo.rge Pizzo. 
Driver has fresh pizza for aale on truck, 
HOURS: ffion-Thuta and Sundo. 
5Pm -J0:30Pm 
Fri. o.nd So.t. 
5Pm -12:30Am 

By SUSAN 0 'HARA News Staff 
Proving that "Work is good for the environment'' was Pro­fessor aime Bellalta's main 

By ANNE MONASIYR.SKI News Staff 
Dealing with life as you find it is is the maxim on which American poet Richard Tilling­hast said he bases his poetry. Tillinghast read a selection of his poetry in Stapleton Lounge at Saint Mary's last night. 
His poetry reflects the his­torical South, life in California, and also personal experience. 
In one poem he selected, 'Return,' Tillinghast vividly re­lates one of his childhood experiences with his father's 
Services for Garner on Friday 
Archbishop Lawrence L. 
Graner C.S.C., formerly arch­
bishop of Dacca, Ban~ledesh, 
died yesterday mornmg at 
Corby Hall. He was 81. 
Graner was born in Frank­lin, Penn., and entered the HolyCross Seminary in 191S as a freshman. He was ordained June 24, 1928, and was conse­crated a bishop April 23, 1947 by Cardinal O'Hara. He was named Archbishop of Dacca in 19SO by Pope Pius XII. 
The body will be exposed at 
Moreau Seminary from 3:30pm 
today. Services will be Friday 
at 7:30pm in Moreau Chapel. 
The fwieral will be Saturday at 
lOam in Sacred He~ Chw-ch. 

objective in his lecture, "Hos­pitality is for Working House­holders," delivered last night m Saint Mary's Carroll Hall. 
In the last of the "Christian and justice Series" of lectures, Professor Bellalta stressed the "moral obligation" we have to work, noting that work is "a good thing for man because it develops him, makes him what he is.'' Prof. Bellalta also stated work "helps in forming a family and establishes the ftrst school within the home." Also "work is the basis of cultural and historical links." 
Prof. Bellalta also discussed the subject of leisure, saying, "leisure does not exist for die sake of work but rather that leisure helps to fulfill the sphere of human activity." 

According to Bellalta, leisure by itself is a form of silence stnce it is not productive in and of itself. 
Bellalta added that as products of our environment we tend to see only what we are conditioned to see and ignore what we believe to be unusual or out of the ordinary. 
Work is necessary to improve our environment, according to Bellalta, and through work we develop a respect for our sur­roundings and as a result we help to curtail the negative aspects of our society. 

Baker's Bike . 


ShopInc. 
SCHWINN 
Authotlzed Dealet 
Bicycles, Potts, Accessotlea, and 
Setvlce 

277-8866 
...
' 
South Bend 135 Dixie Wo.y S. 
;.>~ 
~f~~.·t::~~;.:~~~~~j(-~-~-~~;, 

?oru.:,• ~.(;~ 
B~<,EQ~~'<E. 
O 
"K;.~da./1
::x:.., 


The Observer Thursday, April22, 1982 -page 4 

continued from page 1 
''The importance of knowing 
one's personal history is to 
know that it need not stay 
static. The real woman gradual­
ly emerges when she accepts 
who she is," Flaherty said. 
Flaherty commented that 
women have difficulty with 
power since they associate it 
with men or with evil. 
Asserting that power is 
brought out in women when 
women implement its ''nutri­
tive" and "integrative" quali­
ties. "The mystery of every 
woman is that she has the 
power to be co-creator, she has 
the power to be a life-giver," 
Flal.erty said. · Praising this life-giving mys­
tery of womanhood, Flaherty 
remarked that ''women are in 
absolute tune with the uni­
verse.'' 
Flaherty determined that the 
dehumanization and violence 
perpetuated by our involvement 
m Latin America, the economic 
fear and depression caused by 
repressive budget cuts, abor­
tion and nuclear war are the 
major immoral issues facing us 
today. · 
Calling women ''peace 
makers,'' Flaherty called for 
women to attack these prob­lems on the grounds that they are "aberrates of life and therefore are women's prob­lems. 

"Women because of their wisdom, mystery and power are the greatest hope for peace," Flaherty said. 
. Citing the intimate exper­Ience women have with pain and hardship, Flaherty con­cluded, ''God is calling women 
to shift the tide of destruction." 
Praising the emergence of women at Notre Dame, Flaherty concluded by calling for women to unite and to share 
... Flaherty 
their personal experiences. She added that women must read and study the works of women in order to create a brighter 
future for themselves. 
Flaherty's a_Ppearance con­~luded the Distinguished Amer­Ican Women lecture series "in 
style," stated Sr. John Miriam Jones, assistant provost at the 
University. Some 2000 people have attended the seven-lecture 
series. The fine response to the seric:;s .raises the possibility of obtammg an endowment for continuing the series. 
. .. Survival 

con#nuedfrom page 1 
eral's office cannot-divulge the individual's name to the Uni­versity unless it receives a written request accompanied by the payment of a fee. 
According to McDonnell, the University has several options it could pursue: "If it's fraud­ulent, it's mail fraud, and we have to go to the federal authorities, but if it's a busi­ness that's operatin~ legit­imately, I would questiOn their access to names and address­es." 
McDonnell stated his inten­tion to send a written request to the Atlanta Postal Inspector General in order to obtam the name of the individual who is now using the company's post office box. 

These coupons can save you 10% on trailers come in sizes tharu cany one more money for the fun stuff. your move !Tom school now And save room offurniture. Or even three. Like summer. you another 10% later. Jartran trucks are made for people Look in theYellow Pages under When you move back to school. Or who aren't truck drivers. Most ofthem -.ruck Renting and Leasing"or head olfto a newjob. Or almost any­have automatic transmission, power -nailer KentaiH for your nearest where else. steering, power brakes and a radio. Jartnm dealer. All you have to do is take advantage 5o dip these coupons and save 10% of the Jartran Moving System. Jartran on ouralready low rates. And you'll have I'"'"""'"""'This coupon good for10% offthe rental ofanyJartran equipment through August 31,1982. You must present this coupon to recei~ your discount Jartran dealer: Attach this coupon to the white copy ofthe rental contractI -~~:n·~-~·~~~-~F~~ I ~~ vtS4 . _ ;t.M AtfAN ~~~~ :__ -' .,.rJ~UJR~Ia!C IIIIi ·.· r _._."r ~· -•· · to avaUability. Offer toAtaska. .II"rlfEIThis coupon good for10% offthe rental ofanyJartran Iequipment through December 31,1982. You must present this coupon to recei~ your discount Jartran -dealer:Attach this coupon to the white copyofthe rental contract ~~I £4iiil~ c~~~~~i~J:. ~ ~--~­~-~r· -~·~~· ' ~e~:~i~~~:tsma~J~i~~~ ~~':ii~b~%aska. . . liE PIESSIIUI. .....SYSlDI fllliE -TEll... I Jarlran,.--------------------------------------------------------------------~~~~~~::--~::==~~TruckRen~!-------------------­. ... 101982. Jartran lhKk Rental A Frank B. Hall Company  


The Observer Thursday, April22, 1982 -page 5 
• • .Hesburgh 
continued from page 1 
the south and around the 
capital where most . of the 
voters are and neglected to 
make some telling visits to 
polling places in the eastern 
guerilla land. There was a 
general agreement on this, 
except that there were only so 
many places in the helicopter. 
In general, it was agreed that 
more than one of our official 
group. should go to the east, 
and since Congressman Jack 
Murtha had already arranged 
to be one of the two, I 
volunteered to be the second. 
There had been only one extra place on the helicopter and that was assigned to a State Department official named Joe Sullivan, mainly b~cause he knew Spanish. Since I also can speak Spanish, I suggested that I take his place. The whole group was agreed, and Joe Sulhvan agre~~ to give me his place, obtrurung thereby a good deal of good-natured ribbing on the part of the others. In any event, that's where we stand now. The security people will be looking at the picture in the eastern province in the morn­ing when we get together at se-:ren o'clock, and all things being equal, which'they almost never are, Jack Murtha and I will be goins out on the coptor with a televtsion team. 
We're going to try to enter some of the regions where the guerillas say they are in control and perhaps by landing there and looking at the polls and encour~ging the people who are voting there, we may be able _to give a body blow to the guerilla forces. It's a fairly 
far-out chance, but it seems to all of us that unless we do this, we are not really going to pass muster with the large press corps here who are not able to get into these areas, but really want to see that someone does and checks the voting situa· tion. With that pleasant thought, I am calling it a night because we're up at six in the morning for Mass and rendez­vous at seven o'clock for the final assignments, once all of the security information is available. 
... Prices 

continued from page 1 
books  they  are  going  to  use  
until  the  next  school  year.  
Also,  there  is  much  class­ 

switching at the be~inning of each semester causmg many "~verages and shortages," sa1d Moran. He added that this problem sometimes causes a shortage of books because of the increase of students in a certain class. 
Prices are continually rising because of labor and shipping costs. He noted that graphs and color pictures in new textbooks also add to the rising costs. The profit margin is very low on textbooks, said Moran because when new edi1 ,ons ar~ r.ublished the old ones become 'worthless.'' 
Profits from the "soft goods" section of the store .. the first floor ·· help with the optration of the store, ex­plained Moran. He added that not many schools get the national exposure that Notre Dame receives and that this makes the Notre Dame book· store a "national store." 
Sunday March 28 
This is the day for which everyone in this country has been waiting for so long. I think I can say in all honesty that it was for me one of the most exciting, most demand­ing, most dangerous, and most satisfying days of my life. 
As I probably have indicated earlier, we were divided into four groups, A, B, C and D. Group A, the one that I am part of, is leaving for the east and north and will be involved in looking at the election in all of those regions which are called in SpaJ?.ish "conflic­
tivos," that is to say where the guerillas claim to have control. Presumably, they will try to cancel the elections in that part of the country and will take a very dim view of our coming in to see what is happening. Since there are about 6000 guerillas in the country and the greatest number of them in this area which they claim is their own, we can only look forward to serious trouble. Group B is going in the opposite direction out to the west. Group C along the coast towards liberdade, and Group D will be concerned with the voting in the capital area. 
There was a real sense of tension in the room as the confidential Embassy assess­ment of danger we handed out. 

First, they excused the media, even though some of them were going with us. Looking around the room, one found people in bulletproof vests and other kinds of protective equip­ment. No one was feeling very confident about the day ahead of us. Ours, Group A, was the first group to leave the com­pound of this hotel. We went to the military airport at Ilipongi where we were to pick up our helicopter just delivered from the U.S. Since our partic­ular mission was into the heartland of the guerilla movement, we drew the media that wanted to see what was happening there most of all. 
When we arrived at the military airport and studied the reports coming in from the east and north, it suddenly became apJ>arent that they were all unoer serious attack and that it would be extremely dangerous to move in there. There was the usual push and shove between security-conscious people and those of us who felt we should get out and see what was really happening and it wound up, as it always does, in a kind of compromise. 

First of all, it was decided that our Huey helicopter could only take 11 people, including the two pilots, and, therefore, we had to drop two or three of the media people. It was finally settled that the follow­ing would be the people aboard our Huey helicopter. First, NBCwould be the pool for all of the other networks, not only CBS and ABC, but all of the networks of the world. 
We also had one person from the Embassy who was to be our liaison in friendly territory: Todd Greentree. Todd had worked with me and Jim Grant at the Overseas Development Council and was a fine choice for this task. His Spanish is quiteJood and he knows how to de with the military in this country. Lasdr., there were the two pilots, Gudlermo Pena and Amalcar Cuellara. Curiously, their Huey helicopter had been in Houston yesterday with them and was flown in here last night by a C-130 and is ready to go today with us. As some mtght remember, this airport had most of its helicop­ters destroyed a few weeks ago by the guerillas. 
We finally decided that we would push on to San Miguel, a conflictive area, and work on our movements form there. San Miguel is the third-largest city in the country, after San Salvador and Santa Ana, and is right in the middle of the the trouble zone. They had been having fire fights 10 the town since dawn, but we felt we could land there and plan our meetings following that land­~· presuming it was succes-
In any event, we were ready to leave about 9:15. The preparations were a bit grue­some, since we were all issued flak jackets, which we put under our seats so that if we were shot at from the ground, the bullets might be inter­cepted before hitting us. Also, the helicopter was rather heavy with firepower and many boxes of ammunition, so that in the event we were hit in the air or attacked on the ground, at least those members of our crew who could handle its weapons could defend us. 
I had made up my own mind that I wasn't -going to shoot anyone, but I was somewhat happy to have a colonel in the Marines, namely Congressman Jack Murtha, sitting next to me. He seemed to know all about all of the weapons present and was prepared to use them if necessary. 
·~.-.---.~~..-..~ .... ~~~~..-. ...... ~~..-... 
.. 
J 

t The Ncuz Qnnounces: .....  t  
t  The L<lst mARK DAVIS SHOW  t  
t  Saturday, Apri124 8:30-10:30  t  
t  Come see if Mark has actually predicted  t  
t  the final two teams in bookstore basketball!!  t  
tSpeclell Guest: D<ln Bt<lhlet& othet sutptlsesl  t  
t  Cllso feeltuting:  t  

L _ _!~ BJI~".!~.!a~d]1 J.Q:.l.Q:l __ 
Soo fke ~'Rtwd ~fJ'UUh«efiDK q 
ANNIE at Ike Oaowlt l1ceabae bt Clcicago. 
Swcdtuj. Af1Uf 25 T~ $24.00: HtlliK Fhlt 'Fitmct Secdilcg &T~ Avru.lable at Student Unio:r-. Ticket Office 

R~char~ Tillinghast gave a reading of his poetry last nzght tn Stapleton Lounge, LeMans. [Photo by Cheryl ErteltJ 


r-------------------~--------~
mlyr JKntglyts oftlyt Qiastlt I 

.. I 

· For the Total Look on a Stvled 1 Hair Cut,Shampoo, Blow Dry I & Condition ~ ._. 1 
... REGULAR $15.00 I C.o\-...M--··-NOW $10 00
KU I
rum. WED. lk»!llll • I tnuiS.,na.e:lMJM.o\T.I:»Scll complete (with coupon) I 
172-0312•277-1691 weareonlyminutestromcampus 1 
.. I 


·-----------------------------~ 





Business & T echnology __
Th_urs_day_,Ap_ril_22,_19_82-_pag_e6 
_Economic Update 
THE COMMODITY CREDIT CORPORATION will soon pay American banks an additional $138 million as a reimbursement for federally guaranteed loans to Poland that are overdue, a Commodity Credit Corporation official said earlier this week. It was the second time this year that American banks have _ demanded that the Federal agency make good on overdue Polish loans. If Poland were to continue to miss loan payments, the Government could be out as much as ! 1.38 billion in various loans and direct credits that have been made to Poland. They are due for repayment by the end of 1984. (AP) 
THE UNITED STATES HAD the highest standard of living among industrialized countries in 1980 and, as a result of the strength of the dollar on foreign exchange markets, very nearly thehighest prices, according to a study of 15 nations. The study, by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in Paris, represents a fresh approach to a longstanding problem of comparing economies with different currencies and price structures. The 24-nation organization has embraced a method that adjusts economic activity in individual countries by using an index known as ''purchasing power parities.'' The index is based on the actual cost m each country of a representative group of 1,300 goods. In the past, most efforts to compare economies have relied on exchange rates, a less accurate measure, according to the O.E.C.D. (AP) 
AN INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIST says countries around the world are losing millions of tax dollars because of the flourishing underground economy. Vito Tanzi, head of the fiscal affairs department at the International Monetary Fund, puts the value of the 

.,. underground economy in the United States at between $120 billion and $140 billion each year. The United States gross national product -the value of goods and services produced-is about $3 trillion a year, and Mr. Tanzi projects that between 4 percent and 8 percent of the GNP is unreported. The underground economy is the term applied to income that is not reported to the Federal Government. It covers waitresses who pocket tips, baby-sitters earning extra cash :,;_. people, involved in illicit businesses such as narcoti, uealers. 

; Science Update 
THE REILLY LECTURE SERIES will conclude 
tomorrow afternoon with a talk on approached to the 
study of met:>l ckster systems and reactivities of 
ruthenium cluster anions on the catalysis of the 
water,gas shift reaction. The talk will be given by Dr. 
Sheldon G Shore, professor of chemisty at Ohio State 
University at 4:30p.m. in Room 123 of the Nieuwland 
Science Hall. --The Observer 

II II 
I!~ILIL ••11 
i 


Space Program tied to defense system 
By ROBERT MAROVICH 
News Staff 

"Some Christians point out that religion has given man more control of his fallen nature. I think that we will find out that the new perspec­tive of Space can do the same." 
'in a lecture Tuesday entitled "The Nuclear War and the Space Program: A New Per­spective," Mr. Tihamer Toth-Fejel examined the pos­sibilities of using Space for defense against nuclear attacks and as a means of eventually eliminating some of the causes of war. 
Toth-Fejel said that it is 

"imperative that we are not 
trapped on this single planet.'' 
He explained that total des-· 
truction of the human popula­
tion would not be possible if 
much of the population would 
be living in a space colony 
"biologically independent of 
Earth.'' Total holocast could 
be avoided, but also by coloniz­
ing, the very causes of war 
would be· narrowed. 
By reaching out to Space, 

there would be enough living 
space and er.ough raw mater­
ials for everyone once other 
planets' sources are tapped. 
"Our expansion into space will 
solve all .our problems that are 
caused by the limits to growth 
on this single planet.'' 
Toth-Fejel said that since two 
causes of war are territoriality 
and necessity, war could be 
reduced by giving people all 
they need--in Space. 
Toth-Fejel explained that the 

communications program in 
Space is preventiOn of war. Both the Americans and Sov­iets are using satellites to monitor each others' compli­. ance to the Strategic Arms Limitations Talks . He also 
pointed out that satellites could 
become much more important 
as a means of survei!!aflc<"' if 
technology ever found a way to mass-produce them. Everyone could own a satellite signal receiver, and war would be­come ''much more personal.'' 
Toth-Fejel then outlined the uses of Space in relation to the nuclear arms race. He said that the Heritage Foundation recently proposed a new U.S. defense policy which would destroy Soviet missiles in the air by non-nuclear means. Their defense system consists of three ''layers.'' 
The "swarmjet" system, or first layer, would be used a~ainst silo-busting Soviet mis­siles. This non-nuclear system in Space would track down the Soviet missile on its way to the U.S., then drop "concrete" or anythink with enough kinetic energy on the missile, destroy­ing it. The second layer of attack is the Global Ballistic Missile Defense System. 432 orbiting non-nuclear satellites could "track down any Soviet Intercontinental Ballistic Mis­sile within minutes after launch,'' and by infrared track­ing systems, could send little "kill vehicles" to destroy the ICBM." 
THE FINAL LAYER* Toth-Fejel explained, is an "advanced version of the 
GBMD system" with an advanced optical sensing mechanism. He also said that since all three layers could only destroy missiles above the atmosfhere, there has been talk o an "x-ray laser" wea­pon which could eliminate cruise missiles, and any type of ground vehicle. 

Toth-Fejel said that he be­lieves the use of space technol­ogy will not eliminate the possibility of war, but space weapons "are not weapons of self-destruction, so we don't have to worry about extermin­ating the entire human race ... The spectre of space warfare looms ahead of us." 

Personal Income----. 
Total personal income in bilions of dolars : seasonally adjusted annual raf~s 
,500­2,450­2,400­2,350 2,300­2,250­
2.~ 
2,150-AMJ J 
NDJF 1981 • 82 Source Commerce Dept AP 



Academy researches natural areas 
Scientists and researchers 
attending the spring meeting of 
the Indiana Academy of Science 
AP.ril 23-24 at Notre Dame also 
will have the opportunity to 
examine sugar maples at the 
Bendix Woods Nature Preserve 
and visit the Indiana Dunes 
National Lakeshore. 
The field trips, including 
additional nature sites in north­
ern Indiana, are part of the first 
Northern Indiana Natural Areas 
Conference and Field Day 
being held in conjunction with 
the Academy's spring meeting. 
Dr. Theodore Crovello, chair­
man of the Notre Dame Biology 
Department, said the combined 
Academy meeting and natural 
areas conference is hoped to 
serv the "overlapping goals" of 
scientists, researchers, conser­
vation organizati?ns and gov­
ernmental agencies concerned 
with the preservation, research 
and management of northern 
Indiana's natural areas. 

1 

1 . Memorial MassI for 

1 Tom Perruccio I
I Thursday, Aprilll 
I lOP~­I Sacred Heart Church
I 



All invited to attend 
I 



&O~HIOBO•tl&~ IConsumhtionfialls, incotne rises 
~~ r
(# 
WASHINGTON (AP) --Per­sonal income rose modestly in March, but consumers spent less on ~oods and servtces, undermimng a prop that has kept the economy from falling into an even deeper recession, government figures showed Tuesday. 
If personal consumption spendmg, which declined 0.2 percent in March, should con­tinue to fall, it would raise new questions about whether the economy will recover this sum­mer, as the Reagan administra­tion and many private econo­mists forecast. 

The Commerce Department's new report said Americans' total personal income rose 0.4 percent to an annual rate of $2.52 trillion in March, capping a four-month period of sluggish growth through the worst months of the recession. 
I ­


·-----------------· 
-"I don't know that con­sumers stopped spending in
I 

March," officials said, adding 
that the reported decline might 1 be misleading, a byproduct of 
distortions caused by severe 
weather earlier this year. 
1 
I
1 
I 
II 
I 

But the ~eport said £ersonal consumptwn spending -­expenditures for all consumer goods and services --declined to a rate of $1. 9 5 trillion in March after rising faster than income in recent months. 
By all accounts, businesses won't increase production and begin hiring back laid-off work­ers until sales go up, and sales can hardly go up if consumers are cutting spending. 
"We were hoping to see a little bit more encouragement there," in the sp_ending figure, said a second official. 
With income nsmg slightly and spending dropping in March, new personal savings rose 16.2 percent to a rate of $121.8 billion, the first increase in that category since October, the report said. 

Thursday, April22, 1982 -page 7 
Editorials 

Sure, he's not Reagan, but • • • 
With all of the protests which surrounded the announcement of Ronald Reagan as last year's speaker, one might think that the University of Notre Dame has hit upon a choice which pleases almost everyone. 
Edward Konrady and Randy Fahs 
Well, the administration fail­ed to learn from last year's debacle. They did choose some­one who comes more in line with Notre Dame ideals, they found someone everyone has heard of and they managed to keep it a big, dark secret until it became too late for anyone to organize a protest and voice their displeasure. 
There are two main mistakes in the choice of Trudeau as the speaker and neither of them is a slur against him. First, it appears that the choice of the commencement speake for the last several years has been the most well-known political official who is available. Second, nobody bothered to ask the people who are about to graduate who they wanted to speak at their commencement. 
On the ftrst point, getting a politician to come in and speak, regardless of what this person stands for, seems to serve one function: increasin~ the prestige of the Umversity. Notre Dame has an open speak­er policy on this campus to promote dialogue between pe<;>pl~ from al! points of view. Tius 1s essential to the oper­ation of a free-thinking univer­sity. But, commencement is the highest point in the career of a student; shouldn't the speaker be the person who best repres­ents and symbolizes what the graduate has learned? 

On the second point, commencement is the day set aside for the graduates. They should have the right to give input as to their choice of a commencement speaker. We should be honoring the grad­uates on their day, not use it to try to gain more prestige for Notre Dame. I am at odds with the choice of political speakers because their presence draws attention to them and away from the graduates. Last year's commencement became a circus of press and secret service people. 
These statements against politicians may seem very biased. Everyone has their biases and we are no different. We have nothing against Prime Minister Trudeau, in fact, we are very supportive of most of his programs. We feel that the commencement speaker should not be a political figure because his views may not only spark controversy, but they may be diametrically opposed to the goals and ideals ofNotre Dame. We hope to see commencement ~peakers who have something 1mportant to say to the grad..­uates, and we hope that the graduates have some say as to who speaks at their commence­ment. 


It's so obvious 

If you are like me, you are countries have a healthy Northern Ireland, the Middle­tired of reading about all the economy, they will be able to East, Central America, troubles in the world and not feed their people. Studies show Afghanistan, Southeast Asia being able to do anything about that if people are fed, world and anywhere else where them. Unlike the weather, there hunger will be greatly reduced. there's violence ... STOP are things we can actualll do. Now that we have taken care FIGHTING, OK? Innocent So, in this column, I wil solve of these problems, we can turn people are gettir;tg hurt. ~o 
all the world's problems. our attention to more volatile work out your differences 10 issues, the build up of nuclear nice calm discussions, all right? weapons, for instance. First, we 
I know you were probably
Michael Molinelli should pass laws that make it hoping for something wittyillegal for terrorists to use 
or urbane in this column. Sorry, 
Pollution, whlle on the nuclear weapons. Then, the that I used this space to solve surface seams to be a complex USA and Russia should get all the world's problems. But problem, is actually a simple together and sign a treaty somebody had to do it. one. Make sure everyone buys which will ban further testing electric cars so the air will be and use of nuclear weapons, clean. Make it illegal to dump like the one we signed banning any sort of waste into the rivers chemical warfare. and lakes. Let's also make it so Now we turn to world we don't need toxic chemicals violence. Hey, all you guys 10 for anything. While we are at it, why don't we put the garbage 

dumps far away from where Hour ofdecision 
people live, so no one has to smell them. Let's put the nuclear power 


We must end nuclear arms race 
plants next to the garbage Never before has humankind human history has passed the numbness that teml;'t us to the ago? If this is not the case, thendumps, so they won't bother 

stood closer to the precipice of 9uestion of humankind's des­despairing resignation that all is it reasonable to expect thaanyone either. Then make sure complete destruction; and tmy down to our day, and it efforts for peace are futile; that either nation will be morethat they are all radiation-leak­never before have so many has fallen on our shoulders. inevitably we will someday secure after ten more years ofproof. Also, let's find a safe 
raised their voices calling for a demonstrate that the race of arms spiral? If the spiral is not
place to put the radioactive We are heirs and appointed
new earth, guided and guarded Francis of l\ssisi, Beethoven, halted voluntarily, then where,
waste so 1t doesn't hurt any­guardians of all that humanity
by love. While the nuclear Michelangelo and Shakespeare logically, can it come to rest,
body. has meant; presently we shall
stockpiles of both superpowers is in reality no better than a except with the final battle?
The economy can also be irrevocably decide what 
race of brutes. This week is "ground Zero",
approached and its problems becomes of our race. 
a national effort to raise aware­

solved by such direct methods. At the hands of our genera­The very existence of these 
We should guarantee everyone Steve Mangine tion, civilization will be crown­weapons of mass death ness and to promote open discussions about the nuclear
a good job that he or she enjoys ed or crumbled. It shall burn proclaims that men and women arms race. Concerned individ­
doing and pays well enough so have continued to grow larger with compassion and love as are not infinitely valuable sons uals of all viewpoints are en­char he or she can live and more deadly, hundreds of humankind has never known, or and daughters of God, each one couraged to participate in thecomfortably with his or her thousands have gathered in it shall be sacrificed and offered to be treasured, but mere local events. Today, "Gentlefamily. Europe demanding an end to up as a holocaust to hatred. We beasts; that life is not a Thursday,'' Mass was cele­We can completely avoid the the arms race and on June 12 a can no longer escape this precious gift, but a burden to be brated at the Grotto at 8 a.m.; 
controversial issue of gun similar event will take place in choice; for to ignore the peril­dragged about, for no purpose, there will be a gathering for
control. Let's make all guns New York City during the ous position of our race is until death's deliverance into legal. Just ban the bullets. United Nations special session equivalent to a decision to oblivion. The bombs proclaim song and celebration on the 
South Quad at 4 p.m. 

Let's reform the prison on disarmament. While we destroy it. To ignore our that Christ shed his blood asd a system so that inmates are just dangle by thin threads of sanity responsibility to chooose our fool and a lunatic; that his While the world stands 
poised for war, more voices

punished but also rehabilitated over an inferno of misery, more path is itself a decision to bones still lie cold in a borrowed than ever cry out for peace and to become productive members and more voices raise the cry surrender to the nightmare. grave. The reality of love which justice. The ~gony which ourof society. This will make our for a just world in which human Let individuals on both sides we have all known condemn world now suffers will one daystreets safe too! needs are given priority over of the issue agree: only the these infernal declarations as prove to have been deathWe should remind all people military spending. most single-minded attention lies and blasphemies, slanders throes, or the pains of child­chat being prejudice against At this moment in history, and rigorous effort will make against the goodness of God 
birth. We ourselves shall

another persori because of his two masters struggle for our our world safe. The wide and and the glory of humanity. 
choose.

race, color, creed, sex or sexual allegiance. Soon we must easy road leads to hell. Though the United States preference is bad. choose to give our love and Individuals on each side of and the Soviet Union have both loyalty to one, and forever this issue accuse the other side expended enormous amounts of
Rather than just pouring aid 

into third world countries, we despise the other. We fast ofleading the world towards resources on the development should help them develop their approach the crossroad. Oce Armageddon. But our most of nuclear weapons in the past economies so that they can we have chosen our path there deadly enemies are the cancer­decade, is either nation more Notre Dame Ad Hoc Committee become independent. If will be no turning back. All of ous cynicism and creeping secure than.· it was ten years for ~~vention of Nuclear War 



Editorial Board Department Managers
==-o=Ihe_Obset:Ver== 
The Obren•er is an independent newspaper published by the students of the 

J:tl i I or·i 1/·C.'llit~/ ... .......... \hdud \lonl.. llu.~im•s.~ .\ltllltl,i!t'r Tom Ail'llo 
Unrvcr,ity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not nl'.-es~anly 

.ltanaging l:'tlilor.. . .){van \'l·f lkrl..lllol·~ ConIroller ... . ....... l:rrl-Sdml1. 
rdk'l.t the policies of the administration of either institution. The nL"WS i~ report· 

I'Xt'CIIIit'l' .\'('II'S l:'tlilor.. . 1\.dlr l'lilll .·ltlt•t•r·lisill,ll.lttllltlgt•r... . ( :Jm., l >wl·n
t•J a~ .1< curately and as objedivdy as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of 

Sill· .\t•u·s J:tlilur.. ... .. ........\lar~arl'l Fo~lllOl' l'rot/ut'lion .Ittllltlger .. 1\laur;r Murph)' 
.1 m.IJOrrty of the Edrtorial Hoard. Co.nmentaries. opinions and letters are the views 

SJiol'/s J:tlilor . . . .........( :hrr~ :'lilTdk~ cinulalion .\lt/1/tlgl'r J{;ly ln~hn 
of therr authors. Column space is available to all members of the commun1ty, and 

l:'tlilorit1/s l:'tlilur .....Paul \ld .inn .\)•slt'lll.~ .ltmutger I\run· ( >al..ky
the frce expression of varying opinwns on campu), through l.ctters, i~ enLounged. 

l't'tlllll't'S l:'tlilor ..... T;Ifl 1\nm n l'hulu Ftlilor .. Hachd Jilounl foundt.·d Novembc:r j, I96(l
P.O.Hox Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (119) l.i9-'BO:\ 

·-~-·-----­

Sj>orts~13~r:~ie~!~~S~====~================Th=m=~=~='=~=m=22=,=19=s2=-p=~=es
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
THE ND CREW TEAM will host a four-team rowing regatta on Saturday a~ainst Grand ValleY.. State College, . the University ofCh1cago, and Culver Mthtary Academy. Etght 2000-meter events will be held berween 12:30 p.m. and 3:30 
p.m. in various mens and.women's cate~ories. The races. will be held at the Mtshawaka Manna, located on Jefferson Blvd. about six miles east of campus. --the observer 
ALL PROSPECTIVE 1982-83 Notre Dame Ski Team members must contact Bill Panny (6770) or Sean Chandler (1416) immediately. --the observer 

'\ 
LONDON BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL scores are coming in! This is the first year for the tournament organized by Mike Sullivan and Brian Murray. The four-team ro~nd robin tourney began with "Punks Who Dunk" defeatmg "London Calling" by a score of 15-10. The othe_r ~~ntest featured ''Lady Di, Three Sports and An He1r, who defeated "Innsbruck Connecuon," 15-12. London games are played to 15 points because of fees charged for co~rt time, according to observer overseas correspondent Ttm Vercellotti. --the observer 
AN TOSTAL WATER POLO CONTINUES as the sea-worthy teams move on. "The Pack's BAck" defeated "Fighting Piranhas 1001," 13-6, "Poukeepsie" defeated "Walsh Water Wombats" by the score of 14-5, and J. Arthur ... beat "Heaven Above," 11-5. Tomorrow, "Dick Moby ... " takes on "Belushi's Coke" at 4 p.m., "Neptune... " faces the "Lust Bombs" at 4:40 p.m. and "The Pack's Back" swims against "Poukeepsie" at 5:20 
p.m. --The Observer 

13thvictim --Cincinnati 
Atl~taBraves keep streak alive 
A'ILANTA (AP)-Atlanta ex­was safe at second and Buder Eddie Milner started the tended its record-setting win­was on first. third inning for the Reds with a 
ning streak to 13 games last The Reds then brought in single but was erased when night when Claudell Washing­reliever Jim Kerni whose ftrst Dan Driessen lined into a ton slu~ged a rwo-run, rwo-out pitch to pinch-hitter Biff Poco­double play 
single m the ninth inning to roba was a wild pitch, advan­Atlanta chop pea-the lead to 
give the Braves a 4-3 victory cing the runners to second and 3-2 in the seventh when Dale over the Cincinnati Reds. third. Kern then intentionally Murphy doubled, took third on The Braves started their win­
walked Pocoraba, and Wash­a fly ball by Chambliss and ning rally of;fBob Shirley with a ington came to bat against the scored on a sacrifice fly bywalk to Matt Sinatro. Rafael Reds third pitcher of the in­Ramirez. Ramirez then reached on an ning, Joe Pnce. 
Te Braves staged a rwo-out

infield single when his at­Washington took a ball, then threat in the eighth whentempted sacrifice bunt got past bounced a sin~le up the middle Washington and Bob Horner Shirley. 
scoring Ramtrez and Butler each diew walks off reliever After Rufmo Linares flied with the Winning run. 
Tom Hume before Murphyout, Brett Butler's grounder The Braves broke the mod­beat out asn infield single to stnick Sinatro as he was run­ern Major League record on 

load the bases. Shirley then ning from second to third. Tuesday by winning their 12th replaced Hume and struck out Sinatro was out, but Ramirez straight. 
Chambliss to end the threat. 




Bookstore XI 
EUTE EIGHT 
FINAL FOUR 
Assassins 
... Women 
Cindy Batte! then tossed· in the
continued from page 12 


winmng point. Batte! and team­
Sunday, April 25
mate Sharon Koehler each had

the entire tourney. "The Farley ACC 
seven points. 2:00
Five" fought a long and hard 
BOOKSTORE CHAMPION 
battle before finally ufsetting In another rough game, the Even Less ] acksonless 5 "Hey Let's Play to 11,' 21-19. last rwo Saint Mary's teams faced each other. The final Friday, April 23
The girls from Farley jumped Bookstore 10
score read "Twisters" 21,
right into the lead on some T"The Big Macs" 15. In 6:15 · awesome outside shootin~, 6-1. another great performance, ex­
\lilwauk(·e
The game looked like 1t just Saint Mary's basketball player
might be a blowout. But Tricia Cheryl Sweeney racked up 10 McManus pulled her team to­points. Sweeney's talent is not 

gether quickly to get back into limited to sconng, though, as Saturday, April 24 the game. she is also a leader on the court. ACC 
6:00
T.P.S. Again
The lead changed hands These four teams will gather many times before settling at a tomorrow at Stepan to deter­19-19 tie. Janine Garret popped mine who will be in the cham­Friday, April 23 
Bookstore 10
in a decisive basket off an pionship game on Sunday. The offensive rebound to give ''The rwo matches tomorrow are at 6:15 Farley Five" a 20-19 lead. 3:30 and 4:30. Full House 
The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4•30 p.m. However. classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid, 
either in person or through the mail. 




Classifieds 
NICE HOUSES FURNISHED CLOSt TO 2 student houses for rent on Notre Dame NEED 2 RIDERS TO INDPLS/DEPAUW Special Discounts for Notre Dame NO FOR NEXT YEAR 2773604 Ave One 4-stu, one 5·stu house. Within LEAVE 4/23 BILL 7289 lacully on computers and peripheral

I ......................................
.L-1_N_oT_Ic_Es---JI I. LOST/FOUND 

walking distance. Ava1L fall semester 82 . 
products, printers. modems. etc. Hewlett· For Rent: Student Housing-rated 'Call evemngs 272-8870. 

FOR TYPING CALL 288-5855 Packard, Zemth. FOURWAY COM­
---
superior-summer and/or fall. Clean, safe • . 
PUTER PRODUCTS, INC., 52758 US 31 laundry, utilities, $100/mo total. 291· Ride or riders east on I-BO as far as N.J North (Across from North VIllage Mall) 

···························· 1405 HAIRCUTS! ONLY $4 FOR GUYS AND 

FOUND A bracelet at the Stanford 4/22-4/25. Call Joe 1409. 277-7720. 
VegM&ble party. To claim call8738. 
$6 FOR GIRLS·· LOT OF EXPERIENCE 

WANTED
Subleasing Campus View Apt Jun.-Aug. 

R1de needed to Toledo on Friday, Apnl , IN STYLING, ROTC AND PERSONALLY Reduced Rent Call Anne Or Mary 4637 23, and back to NO Saturday. April 24.
DESIGNED CUTS FOR YOUR FACE (SMC) THE BEST STEREO GEAR AT THE 
Call Denny at1184.
AND HAIR. CALL MICHOLE AT 7951 LOWEST PRICES. BOSE HK JVC. ALL 
ATIENTION:Towhoe-"borrowed"my Professor requ~res part-time typist who wallet and watch from the student TOP BRANDS OFFERED AT SPECIAL
Furnished House lor next year -6 bdrm 2 has access to Commodore CBM Model security. The watch has great sentimental STUDENT RATES CALL JB
bath $540 per mo. 717 St. Louis Call Tom 8032 System. Send specifics to PO Box Experienced typist will do typing. Call value, and ~ would take me about 69 282 0
McGann 277-3461 or 272-9299 77, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 287-5162. Good speller. weeks to replace all olthe stuff in the wal­let No questions will be asked ... DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE TO 
I FOR SALE I :.~ ~ :::~:s~ 
SUMMER SUBLESSEES WANTED! DAVENPORT, IOWA, APRIL 23-25. ......... Comfortable, fully furnished, 2 bdrm apt in WILL SHARE EXPENSES. CALL SUMMER WORK $$$ NO students avg. 
Losr:"1"j;~:· ~i· ~v~lasses with black Hickory Village. II interested call Carol or CHERYL, 284-4529. USED BOOK SHOP HOURS WED, TICKETS
I I
4000$ last summer travel experience Michele at272·9603. 

case. Between or in LaFortune and SAT SUN. 9-7. CASPERSON 1303
send name address and phone no. to Deaperat.-nM<I one or more gradu•

Cavanaugh. Help! Call Ed x1470 BUCHANAN RD., NILES tlon tlcketa. Call277-6032. SUMMER SUBLET 1258 PORTAGE 
P.O. BOX 435 N.D.,Ind. 46556 l VE GOT MONEY. SELL ME YOUR EX­TRA GRAD TICKETS!!! CALL BRIAN a!

AVE GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD 1 or 2 1928 . 
~···

...... Need nde to PURDUE for Grand Prix on FOR SALE MED. SIZE FRIDGE 1 91NCH 
persn apt call 28g 5931 

You've heard about it... you've been Fri. April 23. Can leave anytime. Call B&W TV CALL 1494 or 1538 MIKE or 
'

Sherri 6819 BOBwailingallyearfor~ ...finally,nowiayour I FOR RENT I ...... :.~::.':'7.~.~.:-::--I NEED TWO OR THREE TIX FOR KEN­
chance to -IIIUNGort!W' ca....-In 

Be your own boss. Comfortable 5 your old refngerators wanted, small s1ze. NY ROGERS. (ON MAIN FLOOR IF aclion...lhis L---------....1 bedroom. completely furnished house for working order.282· 1777 BEAUTIFUL FORD FIESTA 1980 Wllh · POSSIBLE) PLEASE CALL JOHN x3175 5500 miles, call277-4413 mghts or mor· 
~~~ IO·C·~~~~~~h~ne_2llll~3942.
................................................................ 

Person wanted to drive new car ro Will exchange BEER or$ for 1 graduatiOn LOST: Navy blue NIKE sweat pants at N.D. Ave. Apts.-Apts. available for sum· Ph1ladelph1a week of May 10 and return ticket. Laura 6816. Stepan Coufls during Bookstore Basket· mer II s spnng!!l! Time 10 think STEREOS
another car to South Bend w1thin ap­ball. Call Tim 6884 160/month Name brands at great prices Now is the 
4 Bdrm "' Shore $270 mo total. Call Pany proximately 30 days Call 232-0453 Wanted 2 NO Grad TIX Call and name3193228735 Call refunded and next school year. 234-6647 before Aonl 23. 11me. call M1ke at 1087 your priCe Dan 283-4639 

iI ~ r 
... 
·.. .._.

---------------------------------~,-----+--'------------~ .!., ---------~-­


The Obs~rv~r -Sports Thursday, April22, 1982 -page 9 

Men 's Intercollegiate 
MEN'S VOLLEYBAll: "Young, inexperienced and at times somewhat inconsistent in our practices," is the way Volleyball Club President Barry Smith summanzed the trials the team had before its opener back in J aouary. That was when 25 teams set out ro claim the "Midwest Club Corner ..,_ lorercoJJegiate Club-VoJJeybaJJ Championship'' to be held at Bowling Green (Ohio) on April 17. performances by Mary O'Connor and Evie Despite some of the early season pessimism, the Allmaras in Sunday's defeat of Aquinas and loss Irist were one of the 12 teams that qualified for to Hope (at Hope College) highlighted the meet last Saturday's playoffs. By the afternoon's end, for Notre· Dame. O'Connor woo the 1500 and the Irish were in the championship match 3000 meter runs with respective times of 5: 17.20 against Northern Iluuois University. Split up into and 11:40.45. Allmaras won the javelin event two six-team pools, the team breezed into the with a 91 feet 6 inches throw, and also took the semi-finals by sweeping matches against Miami discus title with a heave of 74 feet 2 inches. (Ohio), Eastern Kentucky, Baldwin Wallace and Other top performances were turned in by Mary Bowling Green, while splitting with Wheaton. A Kennedy, Rose Marie Luking and Lisa Monti as· gutsy "never say die' effort propelled Notre each placed second in their events. Kennedy ran Dame over Northwestern in the semis. After the 5000 meters in 21: 15. 11, while Luking ran being walloped by a 15-4 count in the first game, the 1500 meters in 5:22.99. and trailing 8-1 in the second, Notre Dame On Tuesday's meet at Hillsdale (where Notre rallied to a 15-12 victory to send the match into Dame defeated Siena Heights, but lost to the rubber-game. Alas, the Irish fell behind Hillsdale), four Notre Dame women placed first again by an 8-2 count before finally earning a in their event. Susie Lee won the high jump, 16-14 triumph in the match. "They Allamaras the javelin (97 feet 11 inches), (Northwestern) were pretty upset with them­Kennedy the 800 meters (2: 32) and Luking the selves at the match's end," chuckles Smith. 3000 meters (11 :42). 
Luking also placed second in the 1500 metersUnfortunately, the Irish had the semi-final (5:25) as did Allamaras in the discus (87 feet 10scene reversed in the championship. After inches). Lore Struzik was third in the 1500winning the first game 15-10, the Irish dropped meters (5:36). Monti and Celia Driscoll also

two straight heartbreakers, 15-12 and 15-13, to The Farley Five fou~ht a
placed in third out of six competitors in the 100

lose out on the Midwest Championship. "It ws long, hard battle before ftnally 
meters and long jump. It was only the second

just an amazing tournament for us," says Smith. upsetting Hey, Let's Play to 11, 
"I think we should have woo it all, but as some time that Driscoll competed in the long jump Women'S 
21-19. The Women's Bookstore 
event.

other people told me after the loss, there aren't semifinals begin tomorrow. For any losers after a championship game perform­WOMEN'S SOFTBALL: By virtue of the sweep bookstore full detatls on all the action, see ance such as ours." Besides the second-place over Bethel College and a loss of Purdue, the jane Healey's story on page 12. team trophy, three members of the squad women's record now stands at 5-4. "We could [Photo by Cheryl ErteftJ received plaques for outstanding individual easily be 8-1,'' says student-coach Bob Spahn, performance. Clark Gibson and John Klebba "but we have iust had so much bad luck in one. were selected for the "All-Tournament" team, 
way or another. I think once we get somewhile Smith was placed on the second team. 

consistent weather, we can really start a winningOther members who helped the team with their roll." On Monday, the team swept Bethel byoutstanding performances include Mark scores of 6-2 and 18-2 (a game shortened to fiveStewart, Eric Wolfe, Kevin Hinders, Scott Erbs, innings). Alysoo Hritz went the distance in theMark Basset and Carlos Araujo. 

first game as she gave up only four hits in herWOMEN'S SOCCER:The soccer team had its first outing. Mary Aro and Jill Strenzel had two own second-place finish last Saturday. It wasn't hits in four at bats_ to pace the ~itting. Streozel

in any championsh~ps for the: Midwe~t, but given the ctrcumstances tt was an tmpret>stve perform­and Molly Ryan htt back-to-back triples in the ance for the team hosting its first major first inning to help the team out to a quick start. intercollegiate tournament. ''I was pleasantly Aro' s two RBI' s were tops for the team. In the surprised," said Club President Tracy Waites of second game, Linda Kelleher won her second the six-team tournament. "The weather has game without defeat on the mound. Chris hampered us all year as we only managed to get Callahan was 2-for-2 and had three RBI's to lead in only one full week of practice before the the balanced attack. Karen Alig was also 2-for-2 sprin~ season. The other teams have been aod scored three runs as did Nancy J acksoo. practtcing much longer and were more exper­
On Tuesday, however, the squad bowed by atenced." In the 1-0 opening game shutout of 12-8 count to Purdue. Arn and Callahan bothKalamazoo, freshman Lynn Webster tallied th~ were 2-for-2 in the game. Arn's bases-loadedlone goal on an assist from classmate Kay Healy. 

triple was a main highlight in the game as wasWalters helped earn the shutout as the Val Harris' second home run smash of the yeargoalkeeper. The Irish then defeated Marquette (the only two on the club this year). Harris was

enroute to the championship match. Another freshman, Sarh, Haod, scored a goal along with 3-for-4 overall, and leads the team with a .467 Healy to pace the 2-1 triumph over the Warriors. bat_ting ~vc:rage. Aro is currently hitting at .417,The Irish then bowed, 1-0, in the championship whtle Ahg 1s at .412. Alig also has a. 720 on-base 
match against Northwestern. The team will host average. The best is yet to come, though,Western Michigan behind Stepan Center on according to Spahn. "One of these days we are Saturday afternoon. A tentative time hasnot yet really gotng to kill someone," he _says. "We just.
been set. 
WOMENs TRACK: Wind, cold and rain had a lot of walks in that second Bethel game. restricted track team competitors to sub-par There is just too much talent in otlr lineup for us performances. Still, the squad managed to to be kept down as we sort of have been in the capture second place in two three-team meets last couple of weeks.'' The team will play four 
held in the last week. Two first place doubleheaders in the next six days. 


B~A~'A• ~ 

... Bookstore ARE 11'-j • 
continued from page 12 standing underneath with nine House" on Friday. ALauris or$4 99 
rebounds. FouJ trouble was the CASSETTES •
Greg Wliilamson scored 10

John Stein grabbed a rebound key as "Milwaukee" went to AND UP
points to lead "Full House" in

and later hit the clinching· the line six times, but never MEET THE BEATLES saea ~~ 
their 21-16 conquest of "Big

basket. Gordon Findley pulled sent the "Shysters" there. REVOLVER an, LET IT BE saa• ~~ 
Organ. . . " ] oho Schafer shot

in eight rebounds. Greg Mike Kelley led the losers with 'h8-of-15 and tallied 10 rebounds SJ 99 PLUS MANY MOREJ Gl"'t~Russell and Dana Hovig kept a 7-of-15 performance. 
for the winners. Mark Bassett ". PRICES BODO THRU MAY 2 ot ......fcthe "Brickthrowers" in a game Defeodtng runners-up 
was 7-of-12 for the losers. 

they never led with a combined "T.P.S. Again" had a toughtotal of 14 points. Despite Now that the field is down to
early going with "Ryan's

having their quick-paced tempo Hopes,'' but pulled away to a eight, a tournament that has 


C..Willste$1
taken away from them, the endured cold weather, snow
21-15 victory. As always, their "Five", will play on Friday attack was balanced with all and rain will take a day off. UNIVERSilY PARK MALL 
against former team member five players scoring at least Friday's quarterfinals will start
Tim Tripp. three points. Stacy Toran had Tripp and teammate ) eff five baskets and ten rebounds. at 5:30 and all games will be 
Lueken each put in six shots, John Frierott led "Ryan's played behind the bookstore. as "Milwaukee" ousted the Hopes" with a 5-of-8 day from Saturday's semifinals and Sun­pride of Notre Dame's Law the field. In what should be a day's championship and All­
School, the "Shysters," 21-18. very exciting quarterfinal, Star games will all be held Paul McMinimam was out-"T.P.S. Again" will face "Full behind the ACC. 

The Observer-Sports Thursday, April 22, 1982 -page 10 
----~------~----------------------~--------------------------------­
/ 
..... 

•..................................-..••.............•••..•.......,. 


Notre Dame Student Union presents: 
ALGER HISS on tThe McCarthy Era' 
.former United Nations Advisor 
·New Deal Activist 
·Delegate to Yalta Conference 



Tuesday, Apri/27 8:00PM ,, . Memorial Library Auditorium
.
. 
.
•.................................................................. 


Men's bookstore 
Of a field of 453, eigkt remain. One of the teams zs 
T.P.S. Again, which defeated Ryan's Hopes, 21-15. T.P.S. faces Full House tomorrow. ~or more on Bookstore, see Ertan Reimer's report on page 12 and the playoff schedule on page 8. [Photo by Cheryl Ertelt.] 


In the dark about night football 
At flrst glance, next September 18 should be a wild day. I mean, what more can one ask _for -­Notre Dame against Michigan, under ~he hghts, in prime time, on ABC, in the flrst mght game ever in Notre Dame Stadium. 
The Notre Dame athletic department is still buzzing over the idea, and all the talk over there is about how neat it's going to be to ."~re~ tradition" and all that. Of course, $1.1 milhon m the till, which is ABC's standard fee for a prime-time ~arne, won't hun either. 
It seems hke a situation where nobody loses. ND and Michigan get their million and their exposure, .and AB~ gets wha~ is sure to. be a hit in the raungs durmg a penod when It would normally show old "Love Boat" and "Fantasy Island" reruns. The only added expense will be the $50,000 necessary to impon the port~ble lights from Iowa. Of course, that translates mto about 15 seconds of prime time advertising. 
ABC first approached Notre Dame about this unique idea a few weeks ago. Chuck Howard, ABC's vice president of programming produc· tion and the seniot producer of NCAA ~ootball, came up with the brainstorm about siX weeks ago in what now looks like a last-ditch effon to get a Notre Dame game on ABC. 
You see, tht:: network had been unsuccessful in two pn··,wus attempts to get the Irish to adjust their schedule for 1V. First, the network wanted to move the Nov. 6 Pitt game to Labor Day evening in prime time. Notre Dame refused. Then, ABC asked the Irish to switch their Nov. 27 battle with USC to Dec. 4. 
Once again, ND refused, which explains why this year's ND-USC g~e will be on CBS. 
Finally, after much debate among the ABC hierarchy (Howard, senior VP Jim Spence and executive producer Roone Arledge), the network proposed the night game using lights from the Musco Lighting Co., an Iowa-based firm that had contacted ABC and the NCAA two years ago just in case their services might come in handy some day. 
According, to ABC's media director for its NCAA coverage, Don Bernstein, getting Notre Dame to agree this time was no problem. "We had to clear the idea with both teams and their coaches," he said. "But getting Notre Dame to approve the idea wasn't a problem. We've experimented with these li~hts enough in J?ilot studies, and our ABC engmeers think it IS a viable system." 
Of course, the people over at the ND athletic department can hardly hide their enthusiasm. "I'm all for it," said Gerry Faust. "It'll be a first-ever thing for Notre Dame and it ought to be a lot offun. It'll be good for college football, too, to get a really good intersectional rivalry on prime-trme 1V. " 
Athletic Director l7ene Corrigan echoed Faust's sentiments. "When I first heard about it," he said, "my first reaction was 'Why not?' As long as it was okay with Gerry and the team and Fr: Hesburgh and everybody else, it was okay With me. 

"It's a great game for prime time. We've pioneered a lot of other things over the years, so why not do it again?'' 
It is precisely that type of attitude, though, that might cause a lot of problems come the night of Sept. 18. Not only is Notre D~e Stadium not suited for night football; It's surrounding parking lot and highways aren't, either. 
Oddly enough, ABC's Bernstein was the only one to even mention any potential problems. ''Night football is a radical departure from day football,'' said Bernstein. ''Notre Dame must carefully evaluate all of the ramifications,,of night football --and there are a lot of them. 
With that word of caution in mind, here are some things that may just ruin the upcoming "break with tradition": 
1) There is minimal lighting both underneath the stands and in the parking lot. In some places of the parking lot, it is too dark to hoid a seance. Also, there are no lights at all on Green Field, which is the major source of parking space on football Saturdays. The amount of lighting and/or the number of security people patrolling the parking areas must be increased in order to prevent ~nr crimes from occurring. 
2) And what about the tail~aters? It would be ludtcrous to think that JUSt because the gametime is pushed qack seven hours, that the Saturday keggers would be delayed as ·well. Who's kiddind who? The alumni will arrive in their big Winnebagos on Saturday morning as always, and the vanous dorm keggers willl begin at 9 a.m. sharp, as always. The result will be seven extra hours for 59,075 people to get drunk, which would make the normally serene Notre Dame Stadium seem like Comiskey Park. Security must be beefed up once again to aid in queUing any disturbances . 
Those are the tw~ major problems that come to mind right away. Surprismsly, nobody seems to believe that a problem will exist. ''They'll take care of themselves," said Corrigan in reference to the students' excessive drinking. "I don't think they'll sit and drink all day --you've got to be stuoid to do that.'' 
Oh yeah? Then there must be an awful lot of 
stupid people at Notre Dame. 
Now don't get me wrong. I'm looking forward 
~~Sept: 18 as much as anyone else, and I think 
It s gomg to be an awesome experience for 
everyone involved. 
But it s.eems to me that Notre Dame is taking the secunty aspect of the situation very lightly. And that may turn out to spoil all the fun. 





~4[)cj[~~=·===================T=hu=r=ooa=y=,A=p=ru=22=,=19=8=2-=pa=ge=l=l
Molarity Michael Molinell~_ 

, Campus 
8:30 a.m.-4:30 p.m... Marketing Confer­ence, "Applying Marketing Technology to Spectator Sports," CCE, Sponsored by American Marketing Association and the Marketing Department, Not open to general public 
9:30 a.m. --Discussion, "Pluralism and Scientific Progress," Anhur Fine, Room 214 Memorial Library 
Doonesbury Garry T~~deau 
12:15 J;>.m. ·· Lecture, "Insect Thermo­
OUR FWJIO'S IXJIJHJ, 50NO NfiJJ PfJ(P 

regulation," Dr. Bernard Heinrich, Galvin
FROM TH& BBC. I KNOW AliJTtF~ 

Life Sciences Auditorium 
IKff 71113 BM51JNLI..BF.ttr 71/E STIFF­/N60/IT /JilT~. ~ 
AileNO 

4 p.m... Workshop, Open workshop with Poet Richard Tillinghast, Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall 
ltJ/IN:I1S 

4 p.m. .. Practice, Practice for anyone interested in trying out for the Irish Guard, Green Field, Must be at least 6'2" 
4:30p.m.--Awards CeremonY., Army ROTC Annual Awards, Memorial Library Aud. 
6:30 p.m. ·· Meeting, AIESEC Meeting, LaFortune Little Theatre 
6:30p.m.--Workshop, "Look What You're Wonh!'' Student Affairs Conference Room, SMC, Sponsored by Counseling and Career Development Center 
7 p.m. •· Lecture, "Washington, D.C., Metro Transit System," O'Neill, Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall, Sponsored by ASCE 
ACROSS 29 Side· 56 Wardens 25 Closes 1 Strtk• stepped 60 Unconven· 27 Moment of 
7, 9, 11 p.m. •• Film, "Arthur", Carroll 
breaker 33 Gauzy tlonal truth

The Daily Crossword 

Hall, SMC, Sponsored by SAPB, $1
5 Confused material 62 Sporauca 28 Museof 10 Jogging 36 Man with 63 Exclamatory poetry pace a fez phrau 30 Opera star 14 Gaelic 38 Burning 66 Attitude 31 Goddess of 
7 p.m.-Midnight ·· Film Festival Three 15 Blows a 39 Neglect 67 Battle site discord 
Stooges, ~hts of Columbus ~. $1,
hom 40 Musial and of WWII 32 Escritoire 
Members free 
16 Possess Getz 88 Heraldic 33 -off 17 Bare facts 42 Rara-term (eliminates 19 Maple tree 43 Columbus's 69 Ordered as undealr· 20 Kitchen boat 70 Mount able) 
8 p.m. ··Lecture, "U.S. Relations with the tool 45 Portico 71 "Children 34 Exude 
People's Republic of China," .Leonard 21 Oriental 46 Wine barrel should 35 Boy: Sp. 
Woodcock, Hayes-Healy Auditorium, Spon­
23 Lipstick 47 Bar seats be -" 37 Understands 
sored by White Center for Law and Public
color 49 Young bird 41 Greeted, 
Policy
24 -Vegas 51 Encountered DOWN the Orten· 
26 Bad: pref. 52 US missile 1 Spanish tal way 27 --de-mer 53 Chin...tea gent 44 To shelter 
2 Mourning 48 Playsa 
8 P·~· ·· Lec.~e, "Women's Rights in Brazilian Law,. D!. Sylvia Carlos iiaSilva
Wednesday's Solution 
band guitar 
3 Requested 50 TV award 
4 Auxiliary 53 Hag 
P1Dlente1, Galvm Life Sciences Auditorium verb 54 Brat, the 
Sponsored by Sociology and Anthropology 5 Lures author 
Department 6 High hill 55 Priscilla's 7 Frenchcoln love 8 Small: auff. 56 Part of 9 What-! a door 
8 p.m. ·· Concert, Primavera Quartet, Little 
Theatre, SMC, No charge 10 Sure thing I 58 Decorated 11 Compete, a cake In away 59 Tiff 
(alas!) 57 Global area 
8:15 p.m. •• Recital, Lisa Clark, Piano,
12 Ended 61 Hasdabts 
Crowley Recital Hall, Sponsored by Dept. of
13 Sea bird 64 Mine output 
Music
18 Erase 65 Direction All Rights Reserved 22 Hlndugod letters 
~1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 


~..............................................................................................................~ ~ ~()tiE> UCliT1t: Stuclt:11t IJJII()fl Jllf:M?flt§ I ~ ·£()11lt:IT1Jl()lcll' IT1l!§l£ J()IIE>I§... ~ 
~ DOCTOR ZING and ~
i I
the MO.JCYHANDLERS I fll<l<ll. 4(ldUJ I 
~ ~aJCl-1a()() ~'I
I ~~~
1(]l<ll!tcluCJu<~ 13cJIIIoorn 1 
I An An Tostal Event 1
L............................................................................a 

"" 
j 
...(, 
·1
.. .. j 
..., 
~-------~--------------~----~--_-__ 
Thursday, April22, 1982 -page 12 
Bookstore continues, quarterfinals to begin 

By BRIAN REIMER ] oe Orie and Mark Cassella led Sports Writer the losers with six pointsapiece. · 
Yesterday was a beautiful "US" utilized a deadly out­day for Bookstore basketball, side game, combined with a as eight teams from what once height advantage, to overcome was a fteld of 4 53 advanced to "Tequila White Lightning,"Friday's quarterftnals. 21-17. Casey Newell led all 
Assistant basketball coach scorers with eight buckets, and ] im Baron hit 8-of-17 from the all rebounders with seven. fteld to lead "Eddie O'Rourke. Steve Passingault led the .. " to a 21-12 victory over losers with a 6-of-12 shooting "M.C.O.B." Buster Lopes performance. pulled down eight rebounds for the winners. Tim Koegel was pleased with his team's perfor­BOOKSTORE XI mance, calling it "our best shooting game of the tourna­
"US" will face "Take Thisment. On Friday, we play the 

"Assassins," and I'm pretty Ball... " on Friday, a team that defeated "Cooz," 21-16.
anxious to go against Bob Mike Mitchell had all he could Crable. He's been talking handle, facing 1980 Mr. Book­about his Bookstore team all 
year.'' Jim Bader led store, Bob Keenehan. In a
against Dayton on jake Kline Field at 1 p.m. 
classic matchup, both players"M.C.O.B." with ftve baskets. 

See Ed Konrady 's story below. [Photo by 
had good games. Mitchell wasThe third time was the

Cheryl Ertelt] 
6-of-11 and Keenehan wascharm for the ''Assassins'' as

7-2 and 15-5. The Irish next p!ay _Saturday 
7-of-12. In Mitchell's words "Itthey finally reached the was a fun game." "Cooz"quarterftnals after two consec­

utive losses in the round of 16. 
plays the same brand ofCameron stars running basketball that we do,
Itwas not an easy win, though, 
as ''A Touch of Class'' jumped and we know a lot of their players." George Magetout to an 11-8 halftime lead,
Lackluster Irish sweep St. Joseph's 
agreed and added, "We like to but the inside game of Bob play a quick game. Today,Crable (8 rebounds) and the Mike Kelley's inside play made 

By ED KONRADY distance, striking out four and . "Itjust wasn't a good day of shooting (7-of-14) of Mike ' 
Sports Wn'ter ~iving up only one walk. baseball --we've got to play Boushka sparked a 21-18 come­the difference. ' 'Brian threw strikes," said considerably better,'' said back win. Captain Curt Bailey In yesterday's closest game, 
''When you win two games Gallo, "but he wasn't as Gallo. ''Especially if we want said, "It's nice to get the the "Even Less ] acksonless even though you're playing effective as he was early in the to get into the NCAA playoffs. monkey off our backs, after Five'' survived a deliberate without intensity,'' said Irish season. He really didn't have The NCAA people look at two losing two years in a row in and hot outside-sh~oting Baseball Coach Larry Gallo, ''I his good stuff today, his ball things, our record and the this round on this court. We "Brickthrowers" team, 22-20. 
~ess you should feel some wasn't moving out there, but qualtty of our opponents. were sluggish at ftrst and they Tony Anderson was an arnazinf consolation. But we didn't play Brian's a tough competitor and ''These next games will be were hitting from outside, but 12-of-19 from the fteld. With well at all." he won.'' tough ones, and we'll have to they got cold in the second half the score standing at 21-20, Although the Irish swept a In the second game, Notre play better." and we took advantage of it." See BOOKSTORE, page 9 doubleheader from St. Dame was ahead 6-5 going into Joseph's College, 7-2 and 15·5, the bottom of the sixth, when Gallo was very upset with his with one out, Cameron pinch­team's performance. ''We hit for John Deasey. Cameron Denison wins were laying back on our heels singled", and scored the ftrst all day, not charging the ball, run of a nine-run inning that 
.Irish lacrosse teatn tnisses upset
but letting the ball play us." put the game out of reach. Jim Cameron provided the Co-captain Chuck Tasch was 
over the fteld, repeatedly creat­

ofensive thrust for the Irish in two-for-ftve, including a triple, By MIKE SUWVAN ie kept his team ahead with ing scoring situations. 
the ftrst game as he went and had three RBis. Sports Writer some outstanding saves. 
Irish coach Rich O'Leary wastwo-for-three, scored two runs, Mark Clementz (4-0) went 

stole a base and knocked in a ftve innings, striking out three For a while it looked like the However, whatever hopes disappointed, but not 
run. and walking one. Larry Lackner Irish lacrosse team might pull the Irish held for an upset were displeased with his team's Brian Smith (6-1) was cred­got the save, going the rest of off a major upset against dashed in the third quarter as effort. "We did what we ited with the win, going the the way. lacrosse-power Denison, but Denison outscored them 4-0. wante<!,'_:__said_Q'Leary. "I 
Like the ftrst half, the Irish
the visitors rallied in the sec­wouldn't say that we outplayed
outhustled and outshot Deni­
ond half and coasted to a 15-10 them, but we did outhustle­
son, but the breaks went
victory. them.
Thefinalfour decided 
against them. 

The ~arne, played in the cold ''They got some easy goals and wmd, was physical from in the second half, but that was the outset as the Irish came out because we were playing ag­
hitting and Denison carne out 7wouldn't say that gressively and had to take running and gunning. Hard chances.'' checks by the Irish put a Above all, the phenomenal 
In Women's Bookstore 
we outplayed them,
By jANE HEALEY the shootout between Carrie damper on the Denison attack play of the Denison goalie was Sports Wn'ter Luepke with 10 points for the and some scrappy rlay around responsible for the outcome. winners, and Teresa McGinnis, the Denison goa kept the but we did outhustle He stopped an amazing 36 The fteld has been cut to four who poured in nine baskets in a game close for the ftrst half. shots. teams as Women's Bookstore losing effort. them.' The loss gives the Irish a 6-5 
-Things started out normally

winds down. The ftnal four overall mark and a 4-3 league
For Missy Conboy and "Hot­for the Irish as Denison wasted 

were the winners ofround three record. However, the loss does 
stuff,'' nothing would fall little time in jumping on top The team tried to make a
held at Stepan yesterday. not affect the team's 2-1 divis­
except their hopes for a 1-0. However, the Irish ans­comeback in the last period, ion record. 
The referees made their ftrst Women's Bookstore champion­wered back quickly as Steve but was once again stymied by appearances of the tourney, ship. For "The Double Stuff Linehan hit Steve Pearsall with the Denison goalkeeper. They
,.bnnging with them many Oreos, " it was the ftrst big a pass, as Pearsall cut in front never got closer than ftve but changes in the games. The upset in the tourney as they of the goal. hustled to the end, scoringwhistle blows not only on downed "Hotstuff," 21-12. After Denison scored again with three seconds left in the 
INSIDE:

travelling, out-of-bounds and to go ahead 2-1, Linehan and game.
Sloppy passing and some

other violations, but also on Pearsall connected again.
unlucky bounces off the rimimportant fouls. When a team Linehan led the team withcould be blamed for the loss. 

Nightfootball

accumulates more than the Hustling after a ground ball, two goals and four assists
And although the score sheet

allotted 10 fouls, the opponent Linehan batted the ball right while ] erry Levesque added
may indicate that Lisa

is awarded a free shot. The back to Pearsall who was two goals and two assists.
Johnson's nine points were a 
--page 10

regulations and the refs added standing alone in front of the Pearsall had two goals and ] oe
big contribution to the win,

organization to the play. Denison goal. Pearsall put it in Hart, Dan Pace, Bill Bonde,
Pinky Pitchford's alert and 

over the goalie and the score and Mjke Farino contributedIn the ftrst game of the day, quick defense really stole the was tied. 
Club Corner

one of the pre-tourney favor­show. 
By halftime, Denison led, one apiece. Goalie Rob Simp­
ites, "Two Lumps and Three The third game of the day son had 12 saves.
but only 6-5. Although the

Pups,'' solidly defeated ''The might turn out to be the best of Levesque was particularly
Irish outplayed and outshot 
--page 9

Fabulous Five, ' 21-14. The impressive as he hustled all
their guests, the Deniso~ goal-

fabulous part of the game was See WOMEN, page B 
c. 








