_._l"'!lllll____,__~----------~-~-~---~--­
' f 
I I I 
t Irish Extra-page lA 
f ... 
~---~--~-­


mediate area had to be evacuated because ofthe danger offire. About 600 feet oftrack was repor­tedly ripped apart in the accident. ( AP) 

4'!i 

Latest TYlenol suspect indicted in '78murder 
CHICAGO (AP) -A man sought Tylenol, demanding n million "if for questioning in connection with you want to stop the killings." seven cyanide-Tylenol deaths was A Chicago detective had been indicted, but never tried, in 1978 for sent to Oklahoma and Texas to try to the brutal murder of a Kansas City locate him. man, authorities said yesterday. Fahner had said earlier that while 
James Lewis, who also uses the Richardson was wanted on the ex­name Robert Richardson, was tortion charge, he has "never been a charged with the murder of suspect" in the killings. Raymond West, whose dismem­Earlier, police said a Jewel Food bered body was found in his Kansas employee arrested on a tip earlier City attic in a "semi-mummified con­this week remains a "possible poten­dition," said Illinois Attorney tial suspect" in the deaths of the General Tyrone Fahner, who is seven people who had taken heading a task force investigating cyanide-contaminated Extra­the seven deaths. Strength Tylenol capsules. 
However, the charges were later Nonetheless, police Lt. August dropped and Lewis was never tried, Locallo said that there is no Fahner said at a news conference. evidence that Roger Arnold, 48, the 
An extortion warrant for Lewis, Jewel employee, put cyanide in te using the name Richardson, was capsules, and he has denied any in­issued in Chicago earlier alleging volvement. that he wrote a letter to McNeil Con­
See 1YLENOL, page 5 
sumer Products Co., maker of 



Activities improve 
women's relations 
By ANNE MONAS1YRSKI 
"There are 2,000 girls across the
StaffReporter 
street that we have a lot in common with," said Flynn. "Dorm parties doWomen have been a part of the not provide the social atmosphere
Notre Dame community for over ten conducive to forming friendships
·Targets organizedcrime 
years, but it was not until a Saint 
between women," she said.
Mary's junior approached the Board Burke added, "In a pick-and­of Governance this year that a tan­
choose game (at a party) you just
Reagan plans drug crackdown 
gible effort was made to improve in­
don't go over and talk to the com­teraction between Nutre Dame and 
WASHINGTON ( AP) -President worth an estimated SHO biilion. to combat the drug trade in South petition."
Saint Mary's women. 
Reagan vowed yesterday to "end the "The time has come to cripple the Florida. "Rather than hostility, we wanted
As chairwoman of the Student Ac­
drug menace and cripple organized power of the mob in America," Although Congress must approve to get the two groups together (in
tivities Planning Board, Sue Flynn
crime" with a 5200 million program Reagan told more than 300 people at permanent financing for the plan, hopes that) interacting would bring
responded to the ongoing lack ofso­
that will blanket the .nation with theJustice Department the administration intends to begin about understanding," said Flynn.
cial contact between the women of 
federal narcotics task forces. Administration officials said the the operation by shifting available Cara Hageman, sophomore class
both campuses by organizing a pic­
Reagan, criticized by Congress task forces will try to infiltrate the funds from other programs. president at Saint Mary's, organized
nic at Potato Creek State Park on Oc­
last year for scaling back the fight drug mobs, concentrating on long­The S200 million cost of the a sophomore class Mass for women
tober lOth.
against drug traffickers, said the range investigations aimed at break­program also includes up to S34 mil­from both campuses as part of her
Flynn made the effort because she 
government will hire up to 1,200 ing up networks rather than street lion to expand prisons to make room contribution to this effort. "All these
believes the so-called rivalry be­
more agents and investigators for a pushers. They will be modeled after for some 1,260 additional inmates. girls could have twice as many
tween Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
dozen task forces. The illicit drug the task force, headed by Vice Presi­The administration also is backing friends if we got together," said
women does not exist. In fact, she
business in the United States is dent George Bush, that was formed legislation to deny bail to accused Hageman.
contends that the hostility, if it ex­
people who are consiaered dan­Publicity played a major role in
ists, is initiated by the male popula­
gerous, to impose stiffer jail terms organizing the Mass and the other
tion.
for drug offenders and to restrict events. Two representatives from
Lloyd Burke, Notre Dame studentparole. 
Saint Mary's attended the hall coun­


Hauser discusses 
body president, concurs, saying,
Reagan, citing Senate investiga­
cil meetings at Notre Dame"Maybe the men propagate the women's dorms. They informed andmyth."
See DRUGS, page 5 
invited the women, posting signs at

official cover-up 
every dorm. By DENA MARINO had been set up as a detention cen­
Still, Hageman said that out of the News Staff ter for political prisoners. 
150 who attended, 90 percent were According to Hauser, the victim's 
from Saint Mary's. "The evidence b very clear and father contacted the U.S. State Hageman speculated that the lack very convi~<cing th>t Charles Hor-Department two weeks later, of participation from Notre Dame man was taken into <-ustody and ex-seeking the whereabouts of his son. resulted because none of the events ecuted," author Th•. ·:nas Hauser said Horman was told at that time that his took place at Notre Dame. She also last night in a discu:-,ion of his book son was "hiding," claims con­pointed out that Saint Mary's stu­Missing at the Memorial Library tradicted by secret State Depart­dents were more aware of the event auditorium. ment documents which Hauser because Saint Mary's sponsored the In the second of a t1ve-part politi-obtained under the Freedom of In­activity. cal concerns lecture series, Hauser formation Act and later incor­Concerning future activities, contended that the State Depart-porated into his book. Hageman said, "Notre Dame women ment had prior knowledge of the ar-The alleged cover-up continued need to be more informed." rest and execution of Horman, a until Horman's father discovered A picnic for the residents of Holy 
young American living in Chile the truth concerning his son's ex­Cross and Lewis also suffered from during its 1973 coup. ecution from Lovell Jarvis, a worker poor attendance. Lisa Fabian, Lewis According to Hauser, the State for the Ford Foundation, Hauser Hall President, blamed it on "bad 
Department attempted to cover up said. The State Department con­timing." 
its knowledge of Horman's death to t1rmed Horman's death the follow­"Everybody wanted to go to it," hide its involvement in the over-ing day. Fabian said. "It's just hard to find a throw of president Salvadore AI-Hauser noted that the purpose of time during the week to get togeth­lende's socialist regime. his book is to make people aware of er." The Holy Cross/Lewis picnic 
In Missing, Hauser details the the government's responsibility for Thomas Hauser discussed his book Missing last night in the conflicted with exams and the arrest of Horman by 12 Chilean its actions. Library Auditorium. His lecture was second in thefive-part politi-Potato Creek picnic conflicted with 
troops and his interrogation, "I think we need a strong CIA," he cal concerns lecture series sponsored by the Student Union events occuring at Lewis during torture, and eventual execution at See AUTHOR, page 3 Academic Commission. See related story at left. (Photo by Scott Lewis Hall Week. the Chilean National Stadium. which Bower) 
-~~-~~~~~-~-~~-~-~-~~~.;.~~~~~--;;.~.;.~-~--~~iA.i&a;;~:u~;s;s:~_;;,~;~AOO;E~;-~~,;~;;~.;~;,,~~;;~,~4~w.~"~:~~·i*M~5wswiic.s5iwi4h~«~biaii~•~~i-~~~~~-~~~~·~•..~~~~~~~~i;•;~;.++~~------------------------------ii• 

NewsBrieb 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 

Roger A. Schmitz, dean of Notre Dame's College of Engineering, becomes the initial occupant of the Matthew H. McCloskey Deanship in Engineering during inauguaral ceremonies today. His inaugural lecture, entitled "The Faces of Engineering," will be at 4:15 p.m. in the Center for Continuing Education auditorium. The endowed deanship memorializes the founder of one of the country's largest contractors and real estate developers, who also served as a U.S. ambassador to Ireland. The chair is the gift of his son, Thomas D. McCloskey, president of McCloskey & Co. in Philadelphia. Schmitz joined the university faculty in the fall of 1979 as chairman ofthe Department ofChemical Engineering. He became dean of the College of-Engineering in June 1981. Before coming to NO he had been a member of the University of Illinois faculty since 1962. Schmitz received his bachelor's degree in chemical engineer­ing from illinois in 1959, and was awarded his doctorate from the University of Minnesota in 1962. -The Observer 
Saint Mary's freshmen elected 13 or21 can­didates yesterday to the Freshman Council, Election Commissioner Monica Gugle said. Seventy percent of the freshmen voted in the election. Taking office immediately will be Janet Biegel, Linda Cas­cio, Ramona del Rosario, Sheila Flood, Chris Jack, Kathi Hartweger, Anne Marie Kollman, Susie Miller, Patty Mosher, Colleen Muldoon, Mary Sauer, Beth Spraul, and Gretchen Wroblewski. -TheObserver 
Police in Baton Rouge, Louisiana arrested three railroad employees yesterday in last month's derailment of a speed­ing freight train carrying hazardous chemicals. One was a female clerk who police said was at the controls without authorization when the accident occurred. The three employees of the Illinois Central-Gulf Railroad were charged with reckless handling of haz­ardous materials, a felony under state law. "The investigation indi­cates that alcohol and speed were involved," a state police news release said. "However, it is unknown at this time that these factors led to the derailment." More than 2,700 residents ofLivingston were forced from their homes when 43 cars derailed at the edge oftown and exploded in flames on Sept. 28... They were allowed to return home earlier this week, as cleanup crews continued to clear the tracks ofwreckage. State police identified the woman asJanet Brum­field Byrd of Gonzales, La., a clerk for the railroad who was the only unauthorized person aboard. -AP 
A 28-year-old Polehijacked a Bulgarian airliner with 75 other people aboard yesterday, forced the pilot to land in Vienna and surrendered to police, airport security officials said. A Bulgarian stewardess, Pauline Dimorova, 29, was cut in the throat in a scuffle aboard the plane, the Austrian national news agency reported. She was rushed to a nearby hospital, but her condition could not be learned immediately. The Tupelov 134 airliner was hijacked on a flight from Burgas, Bulgaria, to Warsaw, the Polish capital, an airport information officer said. It landed at Vienna's. Schwechat Airport at 5:33p.m. "When the plane stopped, the hijacker was the first man out," said airport officer Fritz Magner. "He had his hands up and was asking for the police." Magner said the hijacker was Polish and was believed to be seking political asylum in Austria. Airport officials said the other 70 passengers and the five crew members were taken to the terminal and were questioned by police. -AP 
President Reagan turned the White House Rose Gar­den into a soccer field yesterday, saying he wants the sport to spread worldwide. As the president looked on, two teams ofuniformed 7 -to 9-year-olds, the Green Raiders and the Stampers, booted the ball back and forth across the neatly-clipped grass. "Do I throw it or kick it?" Reagan joked. After introducing retired soccer superstar Pele and New York Cosmos high scorer Steve Moyers to the young players, the president informed them, "By the way, I am Ronald Reagan." Although Pele and Moyers were both dressed in suits and ties for the soccer promotion, they mixed it up among the young players. Several minor mishaps occurred. The ball flew into a border­ing flower garden three times. And at one point, a player, injured slightly, left the field in tears. He was replaced by a pigtailed girl. Neither team had a clearly-defined goal line, but the Green Hornets appeared to have outscored the Stompers, 2-0. -AP 
Drivers inYugoslaviaare being limited to ten and a half gallons of gasoline per month per car under a fuel rationing system introduced yesterday. The new restrictions replace an odd­even license plate number purchasing system which limited motorists to about four gallons per trip on their assigned days to buy fuel. Deputy Premier Borisav Srebric also told the Parliament that business and personal travel abroad would be restricted to control the outflow 9f currency. He did not specify the restrictions. -AP 
China's first Catholic monasteryrun by the 
national Catholic Church has opened in Shanghai with 36 students and a ceremony rejecting Vatican control, according to the China News Service. Zhang Jiashu, bishop of Shanghai, presided at the opening ceremony at the mountain She Sheshan Monastery on Mon­day, it reported. He declared the monastery is run by the Chinese Catholic Church and is not under foreign control, a reference to the Vatican The Chinese Catholic C:hurch does not recognize papal authority. Churches, closed during the 1966·76 Cultural Revolution that outlawed all things Western, have been reopening. -AP 
Sunny today and breezy with a 20 percent 
chance of a shower. High in the mid to upper 50s. Clearing tonight and very cool Lows from the upper 30s to low 40s. Tomorrow, mosaly 5UOD.Y and contioucd cool -AP 
Friday, October 15, 1982 -page 2 

Every Mothers' Son 
Mother never changes. Mother will always b~ a one­line, off-the-record description from a nun in a children's home: "I can tell you she is a 16-year-old Jewish girl ... " · 
Mother never leaves me, except for that one terrible time when she told the world forever how much she loved me. 
Mother never grows old. I am now older than Mot­her, but age has not given me the wisdom to fathom the depth ofher love. 
In a way, I despise Mother's strength. 1 cannot break from the grip ofthat gesture that binds me to her more than mere biology ever could. 
And that is an injti"stice to my mother. My mother is a poor country girl who married a poor city boy and 10 years later took the 3-month-old son of a Jewish teenager to her heart. 
My mother has grown older with me, and she has shown me much about the depthofa mother's love. Her demonstrations have not given me the ability to match the depth ofthat love. 
In a way, I detest my mother's generosity. I cannot escape the kindness that nourishes me more than Mot­her's womb ever did. 
Not that I really hate any­Not that my mother thing about my mothers -I would begrudge me a protest in the same way a meeting with Mother, and cab driver in New York City not that she would be complains about the traffic: threatened by it. Perhaps I though it can be an an­am more threatenedby such noyance, he is nothing with­a meeting than she. out it. As a tame dog, never Still, any search for Mot­wanting to run far, strains at her would somehow his leash; so I strain at the diminish the sense in which bonds that choke my I am my mother's son -as if freedom to fully express a I were somehow saying 23 son's love. years of devotion were not 
Being the son of two enough. As if I were some­strong mothers has taught how saying the lack ·of an me much about weakness. I umbilical cord between us have moments when I think meant the lack of any link I am not capable offorgiving between us. Mother for leaving me that I will not be so insensitive one time, however loving for the sake of patting Mot­her intent. And in 23 years I her on the back for having 
have not yet grown enough to easily move beyond a sense ofobligation to an honest love for my mother. 
Logically, I know that I am not "obliged" to my mot­her for her concern for me -love does not come with invoices or past-due notices. I know, too, that I can not condemn Mother for having the strength to entrust her son to strangers for eternity. Logic sometimes crumbles to dust when confronted by the heart. 
But somehow, mind and spirit never quite confront one another in this search for a son's truth. They seem instead to be wrapped around each other in a gentle dance, with neither willing to take the lead. Confused, I search for identity and love. 
I would like to meet Mother. We should cry together for the tender pain we have been to each other. I flatter myself that she would be proud of me, though perhaps she would be a little disappointed to discover which holiday I celebrate in December. 
But meeting Mother would not untangle t)te knots of identity and love tied around my images of these two women. I'm not sure I would even want to know the practical reasons for which Mother left me -I would rather congratulate her for her emotional strength and present living proof that she did the right thing. 
The Observer Rick's Americain Cafe Design Editor ..................... "llsa" La Croix Design Assistant"Karl, the waiter" Small "Abdul, the doorman" Kash Typesetters .............................. "Sam" Reggie "Louis Renault" MacLennan News Editor........................ "Ugatl" Sarphie Copy Editor "Emile, the croupier" Neely Features Layout......... "Captain Heinrich" Musumeci Editorials Layout ........ "Cloth Merchant" Cerabona Sports Copy Editor ...... "Fat Gent Ferrari" Konrady Typist .............................."Yvonne" Degnan ND Day Edltor"Innocent Bulgarian girl" Coldiron SMC Day Editor.......... "Nightclub singer" Brown Ad Design ....... "Sacha, the crazy Russian" Swiercz Photographer "Rick, diplomatist" Bower Guest Appearan<AJs .......... "Major Strasse" Monk  
The Observer tUSPS 598 9201 rs publrshed Monday through Firday and on horne football Salurdays excepl dunng exam and vacatron penods The Observer rs published by the studenls of Notre Oa•ne and Samt Marys Col· lege Subscnplrons rna y be purchased for $25 per year t$15 per semester! by wnling The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Oarne lndrana 46556 The Observer rS a >nernber of The Associated Press All reproductron nghts are reserved Second class postage pard at Notre Oarne ln(lfana 46556  


But that affirmation of her action will never come about. The law ofthe land prohibits it, and the gifts two women have given me make it an impossibility. 
I can romanticize the untold story of a 16-year-old Jewish girl, but my mother is flesh and blood. 
I can speak in poetic phrases of the perhaps-only­imagined strength of Mother's love, but I have lived with the greatness of my mother's generosity. ·I have hurt her occasionally with angry words that no son can say to his natural mother. She has given too much for me to risk hurting her with a search for a woman who has ;tlready proven her strength and love. 
the courage to part with me. 
And perhaps it is best that Mother remain a timeless one-liner from a nameless nun. Reality is not always so warm as a mother would be. ' Pc!rhaJ1s,it is best to have two mothers: one never changing, frozen in love by an act that separated her from me for all time; another, separate from me only biologically, warming me with a never-ending love and a more awesome strength than even one magnificent, unknown, Jewish teenager could muster. 
That awesome strength has earned a stranger the right to be forever embraced as Mother. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views ofthe author, and do not necessarily represent the views ofThe Observer or its editorial board. 

Capuchin 
a what? 
Capuchin Franciscans are a religious fraternity of men trying to live the Gospel in the Spirit of Francis of Assisi in today's world...... 
Join us in promoting peace, education, ·• and justice--in ghettoes... in jails... in ·sf•'•"-''_. soup kitchens ... in parishes ... in halfway 
houses... on radio and TV. 
Join us in working with and for the advancement of blacks, whites, Hispanics, native Americans and people of the Third World in Central America. 
Check out whether being a Capuchin, 
committed to living for Goe ·ri his people, 
in the spirit of Francis, " you. No 
obligation. Write today .or more 
information. 


........................ Clip and Mall Today! ...................... Father John Holly, OFM Capuchin, 1820 Mt. Elliott Avenue, Detroit, Ml 48207 Yes, send me information about the Capuchin way of life. Name Age ____ 
College ________ Address ----­
City ------State ______ Zip ____ 


Friday, October 15, 1982-page 3
The Observer 
with -odd' gun 
L.A.police searchfor killer 
LOS ANGELES ( AP) -Police said yesterday they are looking for a silent killer with an "odd" gun who shoots people sitting in their cars, then drags them onto the street and rifles their pockets. 
'Officers believe the same person has slain two people, an oceanog­rapher and a Princeton University student, and suspect links to the wounding oftwo women in separate shootings in the Beverly Hills area this week. 
Each of the four shootings oc­curred west of downtown Los An­geles, three in affluent neighborhoods. Witnesses to three of the shootings described the gun­man as a black male. 
"He just walks up, never says a word, and starts shooting," Detective Sherman Oakes ofthe Wil­shire Division said yesterday. "Once the victim is dead, he then goes through the victim's pockets." 
"It's an odd type gun," Oakes 
... Author 
continuedfrom page 1  
commented, "but democratic framework certain rules that oufollowed."  within there ght to  a are be  

Hauser noted that although U.S. military involve t ment in the coup has never been confirmed, Arthur Keis­ter, an American naval engineer near Chile, reportedly commented, "We came to do a job and it's done." 
Except for its one-side~ presenta­tion ofembassy officials, Hauser said he is pleased with the movie version ofh~ book. 
added. "In fact, we're test-firing everything that we're getting incus­tody. We've probably test-fired 30 guns already just hoping on a longshot." 
Part of the difficulty in the inves­tigation is that the shootings are only a handful of the 675 murders recorded in Los Angeles from Jan. 1 to Sept. 30, said Los Angeles Lt. Dan Cooke. 
"Bizarre, if you'll notice, has become rather routine in this city," he said. 
Oakes is investigating the Aug. 19 murder of Lawrence Raphael, a 19­year-old Princeton student and for­mer local high school basketball star shot to death while sitting in a car with his girlfriend in her Hancock Park driveway. 
The killer, described as a black 
male, shot Raphael, then dragged his 
body from the car and searched his 
pockets while his girliend watched 
in terror, detectives said. 

'The fun starts when you start 
"IF YOU
'~otally 
COULD SEE eating' awesome.' 
WHAT I "FAST TIMES 
REAR" 

"WAITRESS" AT RIDGEMONT! HIGH" 1 Shows 1:30­
Shows
30•5 30•
Shows 1:30-3:30-J 3 == 

1:45-3:30­
30•9 30
5:30-7:30-9:30 I 7 == 

5:15-7:15-9:15 
&I::JJ,If&IILI:: Irish midnight special 2 for 1. . ·•·• ••• "EXORCIST" Wlth thls ad.··· : .·. Good for t shows 
"The girlfriend was sitting in the car, he had to know she was there," Oakes said. "Then he walks off. He didn't run, walks off. That's cold." 
Oakes said the same gun was used to kill oceanographer Robert Owen Plaisted, 48, who was murdered as he sat alone in his car in a Hollywood parking lot Aug. 4. 
"Plaisted and Raphael are definite­ly linked," he said. "We've got good evidence. That's our ace in the hole, hopefully." 
Detective William Gailey of Hol­lywood said Plaisted's body was found in a parking lot adjacent to the Hollywood police station. There were no witnesses, he said. 
"I've never handled one in 14 years like this," Oakes said. "In fact, I've never heard of one like this. Usually it's 'give me your money' and the guy argues or tries to resist and then he's shot. But I've never had them walk up to them without a word and assassinate them." 

Pamphlets describing career opportunities for liberal arts stu­dents were distributed yesterday afternoon at the Arts and Letters career workshop in LaFortune. (Photo by Scott Bower) 
ATTENTION: SENIOiS! 
Turn in your Yearbook Portrait Proofs! 
Where: LaFortune Student Center, llm. 20 . 1st floor 
T1mes: 9:30am ·1:30pm and 2:30pm· 5:00pm Dates: October 11-15 
Please see the Varden Representative as indicated 
T • Z: October 15 Thank you for your cooperation Your Yearbook Staff 






GOOD LUCK IRISH BEAT ARIZONA 

Your NOTRE DAME CREDIT UNION And Their "LUCKY LEPRECHAUN" Wish The IRISH "GOOD LUCK"! 
Take a "LUCKY LEPRECHAUN" To The Game. Available for only $10.00 At The ................ 
NOTRE DAME CREDIT UNION 
.:.... \ II 
j 

The Observer Friday, October 15, 1982 -page 4 
Glasses Broken? 
SAME DAY SERVICE 
*Glass or Plastic Lnses 

*Silale Yisiol or M11tifocal *Ower 600 fAMS 
University Center, 6502 Grape Road, Mishawaka, Indiana Phone Z19-2'n-2400-0pen Mon.-Fri. 9-9; Sat. 9-5 

~~~·liB~ 

Fulfill promise 

Vietnamese return w-ar dead 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Viet· namese authorities yesterday turned over to U.S. officials in Hanoi five sets of remains and material evidence of three other American military personnel unaccounted for in Indochina, the Pentagon an­nounced. 
The remains are being flown to the Central Identification Laboratory in Honolulu, Hawaii, and are expected to arrive at Hickam Air Force Base there this morning, the statement said. 
It said further details were not available immediately. The turnover of the remains ap­peared to fulfill a pledge Vietnamese 
Old Fashioned Home Cooking At Its Best! 
•If 
You Are Looking For Something Unique and Different 

•Homemade 
Pies, Breads, Salads, & Rolls 

•40 
Foot Salad Bar 


•Nightly 
"All You Care To Eat Specials" Choose from K<)a;t B~ef, Turkey, Chicken, BBQ Ribs, Frog Legs & Lake Perch, Swiss Steak, 

•Open 
Menu Always Available Ham 


•Elegance, Good Prices -850 Seats '<. ::,r •Souvenirs, Gifts & Homemade Goodies 
c.:~~Sat. m.orning brunch-75 items under $5°0-8 am. 2 pm 
"'.~ C'_. ··We will accept your reservations to guarantee immediate aaetLUIIL&o• 

Saturday 8 A.M. -9 P.M. osed Sundays-Except Easter. Mother's Dav & Father's Day 
E. Jefferson Blvd. • Mishawaka. Indiana 255-8040 
l!l!!!l•lt.oiil-~~ from llotre Dame south on Eddy-S min. to Jefferson-east 10 min. •··•··········•·••··••·····•••·•·•··•·······•·••·•·····•·•······••·•·•·••·••····•••···•······•···•···· 

At Wendy's, we believe in the quality of American beef. Thars why we've never allowed imported beef. Thars why we've never allowed frozen beef. Wendy's hamburgers are made from only 
l00% pure, Government inspected, American beef. 

When we first started Wendy's with one restaurant, we set standards in the industry that no one has ever topped. 
And we've never abandoned those standards. 
THJS COUPON GOOD FOR A I THIS COUPON GOOD FOR A

-----------------P----------------­
I I I I I I I I
I 

II&IIIIIJB&EIIS. Not valid wilh any other offer B&II1JIUIEBS Not valid with any other offer 
YOU"R.E WENDY"S KIND Of PEOPLE. 
TM 

402 DIXIE HIGHWAY N. 4227 S. MICHIGAN ST. 3401 LINCOLN WAY WEST 1821 LINCOLN WAY EAST 
Single %lb.* Hamburger and a 20 oz. Soft Drink For Only $1.25 
GOOD AT AL.L. SOUTH BEND WENDY'S 
l/f\~  hpires0ctober31.1982  
~­ ~--~  ·Ner weight before cooking  
oLD rAaHIONJ:o  Cheese & tomato extra  

: Single 1/<t lb.* Hamburger 1 Order of French Fries 1 and a 12 oz. Soft Drink 1 For Only $1.69 
I GOOD AT AL.L. SOUTH BEND WENDY'S 
I 

l/f\~ hpireo0ctober31. 19821 '-~J *Net weight bdore cookingJI oLo FA•HaoN~:o Cheese & tomato extra 
1 1 1 
I I I
I 
I
I 
authorities gave last month to four members of a private group known as the National League ofFamilies of American Prisoners and Missing in Southeast Asia who visited Hanoi. 
At the time, a U.S. official in Bangkok, Thailand, said the five sets of remains were retrieved in Viet­nam earlier this year and announced to a visiting delegation from the Vietnam Veterans ofAmerica in May andJune. 
The Vietnamese said at the time that one ofthe bodies was identified as that of Gerald Patrick Frye, killed in 1967 in the northern province of Ha Nam Ninh, and that the remains 
of three others were found at the same crash site. 
But this is a tiny fraction of the es­timated 2,500 U.S. personnel who remain unaccounted for in Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia from the Indoc­hina war. 
The fifth set of remains was 
reported to have come from Quang 
Ninh privince, also in the north. 
Before yesterday, the communist Vietnamese had turned over the remains of 75 U.S. servicemen since 1973. The latest were transferred in July 1981, when three sets of remains were surrendered. 

Seminar to discuss mythsofworld hunger 
By DAN McCULLOUGH 
News Staff 
The role of the individual in find­ing a solution to the world hunger problem is the topic Sunday in a seminar entitled "Ending World Hunger". 
The lecture, which will take place in the seminar rooms of Moreau Seminary at I :00, is sponsored by the Hunger Project. Included is a discussion ofthe myths surrounding world hunger, a review of the cur­rent hunger situation, and options on what the student can do to help end the hunger crisis. An oppor­tunity to respond or comment is also available. 
Elkhart resident Janice Martin, regional coordinator for the Hunger Project for a trn-"t:lte ~rr:t will con­duct the seminar, which was originally designed by hunger ex­perts in San Francisco. 
Although the Hunger Project is not a politically active group which lobbies Congress, they do hope to al­low the individual to see that he is the key to solving this crisis, accord­ing to 1979 Notre Dame graduate Mark George, an active member of the group. 
"The goal (of the seminar) is to make ending hunger an issue on the Notre Dame campus," said George. 
He invites students interested in getting involved in the world hun­ger cause, or those merely in­terested in attending Sunday's seminar, to contact him at 255· 5385. This will ensure a seat at the lecture. 

'\.4 n~F [ tVHE. \,11'\·l 'H,IJ;.t'\ 
C()IWHIJNIIC!lllii()N 
~.......--0llriEAil~E 
r lfii2111()A\'o/ IfilL~\ ~ltll2111t~ 
October 15 

The Aviator's Wife , · 98CJ ''•C Ro·~e· c·;·ce :o o• · ~-" ·· c-e·c· .·.'" E·~ 's" T'1e l1rst of Ronmer s new ser._. __ .... :. ··Pl.: ai"'J 1ntr1cate web ot cnaTlce mee! "'C~ a"'::= ..... sse'J :c""-.e. · ''"'a' ...... ~~­
pectedly becorres an offbeat a"'c :o--:: Je:ec· ·.e s·.:.·. A :Jo;{e~· ... 
undertow of languorous erot·c·srr ; .,.,,=' -.-::-:::: ....·.c·· ... 10• oe: ,.,g -.Jrve­
ou•ted ar,d L1'd't?•Stated rn 1 or~s :>,e C"1'Q'1•C e Qf a ~ea C... S yOu"'g Slv 
i.Jen~ S ·ong•'lg tor an ,.,J€P€"'0E'"': 0 0?' ,'JO,......a'"' 
Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum Admission
"' lr~u ~ 11~131ti lr-$....z · o o 
The Observer Friday, October 15, 1982 -page 5 
ElSalvador 


~!:~~~~~;~~~mr.s~~~Ht.~~~;~~~ 
-The government sent 5,000 troops backed by artillery, fighter-bombers and helicopter gunships in­to northern El Salvador yesterday to 
cou~ter~ttack the strongest guerril-Ia drtve m SIX months. Stiff guerrilla resistance was 
reported and a national guard com­man~er in northern Ch~atenango provmce, where the mass1ve coun­
teroffensive was concentrated, 
. . . Drugs 
continuedfrom page 1 
tions in the 1950s and 1960s that 
aroused concern over organized 
crime, said he also will create a panel 
to do a three-year analysis of or­
ganized crime's influence in every 
region ofthe country. 
He also proposed a national cen­ter to train local law enforcement agents in fighting such new or­ganized crime activities as arson, bombing, bribery, computer theft, 
contract fraud and bid-rigging. 
Attorney General William French Smith said organized crime today in­cludes not only the traditional "families" in La Cosa Nostra, but also highly organized motorcyle and prison gangs and emerging drug car­tels, particularly in Southeast Asia and Colombia. 
Administration officials, who 
asked not to be identified, said that 
under the plan, up to 700 new 
agents in the FBI and Drug Enforce­
ment Agency will be hired, along 
with another 500 law enrcement 
agents in other federal departments 
and federal prosecutors. 
The new agents will replace the inost ~xperienced crimefighters, who will staff the proposed task forces, the officials said. 
The task forces will be based in 
Boston, New York, Baltimore, At­
lanta, Houston, St. Louis, Chicago, 
Detroit, Denver, Los Angeles, San 
Francisco and San Diego. But their 
activities would cover broad regions 
and officials said no part of the 
country would be neglected. 
A typical task force would consist .of 52 federal investig'ators, 20 federal prosecutors, 50 enforce­ment personnel from agencies outside the Justice Department and 20 clerical and paralegal employees. 
Reagan called for increased coor­dination among federal agencies and a program to enlist hhe nation's governors in fighting crime. 
... Tylenol 
continuedfrom page 1 
Fahner had described Arnold's ar­rest Monday as "another one of those (incidents) that are unr­elated" to the killings. 
Several coincidences too strong to ignore make Arnold a "possible potential suspect," and he was un­cooperative with detectives, Locallo said. Authorities are continuing to investigate him, he said. 
After his release on bond Wednes­day Arnold said, "I had nothing to do with this Tylenol thing at all." He is charged with five counts offailure to register firearms and one count of aggravated assault stemming from an earlier incident in a tavern. 
Police arrestd Arnold on Monday after an informant told them he was known to keep cyanide in his home. Detectives said they found in the home five guns and ammunition, as well as the literature on P;9isons. 
Authorities also said Arnold had two one-way tickets to Thailand and intended to leave the country today for a 28-day vacation there. His at­torney, Thomas Royce, said at tht bond hearing that Arnold will cancel his vacation. 

were heavy. 
He said at least 10 soldiers were wounded yesterday morning at El Jicaro. "The situation is pretty criti­
cal," he said. "They've brought in a lot ofwounded." The commander, who did not 
want to be identified, said reinforce­ments continued to arrive because ofunexpectedly strong resistance at 
Las Vueltas, a town of 5,000 people 50 miles north of the capital that about 700 rebels overran Sunday night. The leftist rebels are trying to topple the U.S.-backed rightist government ofEI Salvador. 
South and east of the capital, the army searched for guerrillas who at­tacked three military outposts and 
brought transportation to a standstill with warnings of heavy at­tacks to come. 
The army's three U.S.-trained bat­talions were sent into Chalatenango province with other ground forces. Four American-made A-37 "Dragonfly" fighter-bombers were bombing and striking rebel posi­tions at Las Vueltas, said the com­
mander. In addition, American-made through the hills, firing on guerrillas with machine guns. Ground forces were pounding rebel positions with 105mm cannon set up on a soccer 
field on the northern side of Chalatenango City, he said. Maj. Armando Aviles, commander 
of the drive, said troops and guerril­las clashed close to Las Vueltas before the army entered the city at 
dawn. "The army units are advancing, but the terrain is difficult," he said . In most previous encounters, guerrillas have melted away into the rugged countryside when the military mounted a drive against a town they have taken. A national guard commander in Aguilares, about 25 miles north of San Salvador, said guerrillas am­bushed a 300-man troop truck con­voy heading to the Chalatenango fighting early yesterday, killing two troops and wounding 16 others. 
The guerrilla assaults this week constitute the strongest and best­coordinated operation since their unsuccessful effort to disrupt March 28 elections for a constituent as­sembly. 

THE HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES 
A 1-lyear postgraduate experience stressing: service, simple living, and Christian community. HCA is in several American cities and Chile 
Applicatiors row available 
Deadlire for Chile application November 4, 1982 
For more iriormationcontact: Mary Am Roemer, Volunteer Services, LaForture Center, 239-5293. 

1
ll&iBT···..n···.......~ 
-a.....L-L -a,•!
~1"6iiii 
8 r--.. k Ia $100 
r UUIII8f00JD I 0 eD5 l
40 Gameroom TokenS .,r $500 1& Bol fpurrpgn $100
or es 0 

with this COupGD Or SludeDI m ew.ires.OY 18 
-, • 

: ••••••••PUff•PUff GOLF cJ! GAM:IS ......... ; 
OPEN YEAB BOUND! 361S N. Main., Mishawaka (one-block so11'h of Edison Bd~) Open tUl midnight 259-4171 
.-.................................................................·:­

18461 St Rd. 23 South Bend callfor appoimment 277-1875 .';hampoo, Conditiont>r, Cut Stvlc 
NDSpecial 
Present this

Guys-$10.00{reg.13.00) 
coupon

Girls-$15.00 (reg. 18.00) 
Ofl 

From the designers at Cosima 's amval 
: ...........................................•......................: 
montgomery® 
will conduct interviews on this campus THURSDAY, NOV. 4 & FRIDAY, NOV. 5. Career positions in vertical transportation MARKETING/ MANAGEMENT w111 be discussed with degree candidates in BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION. For more information about Montgomery and our future visit to your 
campus, contact your placement office. 


montgomery 
ELEVATORS ESCALATORS 
POWER WALKS & RAIIFS 
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER 

Montgomery Elevator Company. Moline. Illinois 61265 Montgomery Elevator Co.. L1mited. Toronto. Ontario M9B3SS Offices in pnnc1pal c1t1es ol North Amenca 


FREE POSTERS 
20 different brands of keg beer available including imports 
Draft Trucks Tapping Equipment Keg Coolers Cups and Ice Tubs 



Editorials 
Friday, October 15, 1982-page 6 

. 
' I 
) ! ! 
We would all benefit from a little "plunge" at some point in our lives. To take about 48 hours' leave from the comfortable surround­ings we are so well accustomed to, and ex­perience "the other side" ofcivilization. 
Kelli Flint 
Overview 
The Center for Experiential Learning ( CEL) offers this opportunity to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students every year. It's called the Urban Plunge. 
An article in Tuesday's Observer described how CEL coordinates the plunge. They expect 

Take the plunge I 
300 applicants by deadline today at 3:00. (Extensions are a possibility. If you are in­terested, contact Reg Weissert. ) 
I happen to be one of the 260 participants distributed to 58 sites throughout the nation during two early days injanuary, I982. 
None of the six of us assigned to St. Malachy's Parish in Chicago knew quite what to expect from our stay. We were aU told at orientation to erase preconceived notions and "go with the flow" ofthe site. 
Our site was in a neighborhood which in­cludes two high-rise housing projects and several vacant lots. One of our hosts noted that there wasn't a complete city block in the area. 
We talked about the history ofSt. Malachy's. 


S.A.D.D. needs student support 
Students Against Drunk Driving (SADD) is a group that may actually achieve a measure of effectiveness against alcohol abuse. We've all heard the rhetoric about alcohol-related 
Randy Fahs 
Friday Analysis 
problems, but none are more potentially dan­gerous than the drunk driver. SADD is an or­ganization which can do more than rhetoric and the Dean ofStudent's guidelines on drink­ing. It can do more ifthe "S" in SADD becomes an active force. 
The Students ofNotre Dame can make a dif· ference if they will come out and support this organization. It is up to all of us to gain aware­ness and understanding of what it means to drive drunk. SADD doesn't need the mere lip­service which has sent so many other ND-SMC organizations to their apathetic graves. It needs student participations and support to combat one of the most senseless and tragic events -the alcohol-related traffic fatality. 
Most campus organizations have problems finding supportive members in the ad­ministration. SADD has managed to avoid this. One main reason is that they are a student or­ganization which has managed to do some­thing that the University has failed to do: make an organized attempt to combat an alcohol problem. 
SADD has also managed to get good media support. WNDU, channel I6, covered their or­ganizational meeting two weeks ago. U93 FM also managed to put news story on the air for them. And of course, my article in the Ob­server is not the first in Notre Dame's campus daily. 
One thing seems to be conspicuously ab­sent: student support. The curse of most Notre Dame organizations and crusades has afflicted SADD. Student membership is a mere handful. With so few people it is difficult to set long-term goals or begin comphrensive plan­ning. The next SADD meeting will be this Sun­day, October I 7, at 2:00 p.m. in Hofman Lounge in the basement of Keenan Hall. 
Without student support, SADD's inroads throughout campus will go for naught. I ap­peal tot you to join this organization and make it work. Adriver whose judgement is impaired by alcohol will turn his car into a 3,000 pound machine of brutal destructive force. SADD's main goal is to make people so aware of the problem that they will no longer be needed. 
Please help. 

Much ofthe damage to the neishborhood was done during the riots in I968. One ofthe nuns at St. Malachy's lived in the area when the riots took place. She witnessed the destruction. 
A host led us on a walking tour ofthe neigh­borhood. We watched as a boy who looked about seven years old waved a knife at us. Our host was reassuring. "Most people in this neighborhood carry weapons all the time to protect themselves," he said. "Many bring guns and knives with them to bingo." 
We were undoubtedly intruders in this societal microcosm. Although no local passersby seemed to object to us, a police car pulled over as we walked by a high-rise housing project. One of the officers asked what we were doing in the area, and whether our host was carrying a gun. When he answered "no," the officer said "well, good luck" and drove off. 
Tenants in these housing projects are often victimized by city politics because they live near Chicago's downtown shopping area. Cabrini Green is a ten-minute walk from Mich­igan Avenue. 
Thanking one's natural parents 

I would like to direct this reply to Mr. Mowle and his October II editorial on "Opening Adoption Records." 
As I am adopted, I can claim to completely understand the desire to know that some 
Suzanne La Croix 
Counte~point 

adoptees have. Unfortunately, Mr Mowle is a product ofthe ignorant majority who claim to and even think they do understand this issue. 
My opening question to him is "Did you bother to speak to an adoptee or to parents (either adoptive or natural?) I suspect not. 1 1 
Next, although your presentation is quite convincing, too bad your conclusions logical­ly follow from invalid premises. In other words, your opinion evolves from myths, not from facts. 
You consistently defend the parents and condemn the adoptees for "expecting hand­outs." I must agree with you that the parents certainly do not "owe" us anything. But, how can you generalize that imposition and ex­pectation of anything are the only motives an adoptee has beside curiosity? I know my adoptive parents have already given me every­thing I biologically and financially need. 
Using your own analogy of the anonymous gift, won't the recipient wonder from whom it came? If the gift were flowers, wouldn't you be tempted to call the florist for the sender's identity? Ofcourse you would. 
Or, to use my own analogy, suppose someone were hit over the head and suffered complete amnesia. Should the victim conten­tedly set about building a new life' By Mr. Mowle's rea.-;oning, if the person sought his/her past, "What good will this information be to the individual?" 
The attempt to further convince the audience by warning that "the odds are very low that the natural parents would have been better than the foster parents" fails miserably. Mr. Mowle's argument implies that he thinks that the adoptee is trying to trade in his/her adoptive parents for the biological ones. Quite untrue. Acknowledging one set of parentsdoes not mutually exclude the others. 
Also, Mr. Mowle states that the biological 
A priest with a nearby parish noted that high-rise buildings are easily transformed into luxury condominiums. He thinks tenants may be systematically evicted for this purpose. The priest also revealed that the leases on many ofthe buildings will soon expire. 
Several rays of hope help St. Malachy's thrive. One of these rays is Ernestine, a paris­hioner who owns a "love lounge" on Madison Street. 
Pictures of the Sacred Heart of jesus decorate the door ofthe lounge. 
Ernestine named it the Love Lounge after her husband and an employee were robbed and killed there one night. "There should be more love in the world," she said 
Stories similar to mine were shared at a 
Plunge follow-up meeting. Many said the ex­
perience changed them. Maybe they won't 
join Holy Cross Associates or dedicate their 
lives to inner city redevelopment, but they are 
different. They're more sensitive to a culture 
they may otherwise never have seen. 
So consider spending two days thisJanuary 
in a special place. You may be glad you did. 
parents only gave up their child by "knowing that they would be protected from future meeting by law." Protected? I think "hindered" from future meeting is more ap­plicable. Often-times the biological parents are as eager as the child to share knowledge and experiences. Yes, even to explain. 
So, why would an adoptee want to meet his/her real parents? Because natural children take for granted that they have Mom's eyes, Dad's feet or Uncle Fred's red hair. Because natural children know how they kicked, made Mom uncomfortable and decided to be born during that New Year's Eve party. Because natural children will never hear, "I did my best with what I was given," "We wish we had never adopted you," or "Let me introduce my s~il's adopted children... 
But according to Mr. Mowle, "it seems un­
grateful to insist on knowing your 'real' 
parents." False again. My gratefulness to my 
adoptive parents is evident in my actions, my 
ideals and in whom I've become. To them, I 
can easily say, "Thanks Mom, thanks Dad." I 
am their child and nothing can change that. 
On the other hand, it certainly is ungrateful 
to not thank those who give you the oppor­
tunities to succeed. Why should I be denied 
my right to share my achievements? I think my 
biological parents would be proud of my 
achievements and content to know that they 
made the best decision 19 years ago. So, get­
ting back to Mr. Mowle's analogy of a gift -if 
the adoption records are not opened, how 
will I ever know to whom I should send the 
Thank-you note' 

Editorial Board Department Managers 
Tbe Ob rert'er is an independent newspaper published by the students of the 
Editor-in-Cbief..............................Michael Monk Business Manager ................... .........Tony Aiello
Univer~ity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not neces:.anly 
Managing Editor......... ...... Ryan Ver Flerkmoes Controller .......................... .................Eric Schulz 
reflect the polKies of the administration of either institution. The news 1:. report 
Execufil'e News Editor. .....................Kelli Flint Atlt,erttsing Manager. ....................Chri~ Owen
ed as accurately and as OOJL"'..tivc:ly as pos:.ible. Editonals represent the opinion of 
.SMCEwcutit'e Edi/or............Margaret Fosmoe Production.Uanage1· ................ MaUI·a Murphy 
a ma1onty of the Editorial Board. Co.nrnentarics, opinions and letters are the v1ews 
Sports Etlttor........... .......................Chris Nec·dles Circulation :lfwzager .. . .......... Ray Inglin 
of their authors. Column space IS available to all members of the li.Jinrnunity, and 
Editorials Editor .......................l'aul McGmu Sv.~tems Hc11wger ........ :.. . ....... Bmce Oakley
the free expression of varymg opmwm on campus, through letters, h en~ounged. 
Felltures Editor. .... ... Tan Brown 
Photo Editor .......... ..................... Rache! Hlount 
Foundt>d November 3. I%6
P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 'l6SS6 (ll9) U9-5:~0.i 
Friday, October 1 5, 1982 -page 7

Editorials 
Numbing effects of horror 
Acouple ofweeks ago I was looking around my apartment for something to do, and I hit upon broadening my mind and reading Time and Newsweek. After reading them I was struck by the face on the cover of Time, Princess Grace. Then I looked at the cover of Newsweek and noted that it pictured the bodies of the victims ofthe Lebanese refugee massacre. The contrast struck me and started me thinking. Ofcourse, Time wasn't totally in-
Richard Lechowich 
Perspective 
sensitive, it did say "Massacre in Lebanon" in small print above the picture of Princess Grace, but the contrast remained striking. Why the differing cover stories? Is the ac­cidental death of one important personage more important and dear to our hearts than the brutal slaughter of innocents in t:he refugee camps ofLebanon? 
For most of us the answer is "Of course not." The international outrage displayed by most responsible governments has been well documented. The United States, France, and Italy have all volunteered to keep the fragile peace, and American blood has already been shed defending that same peace. While the Lebanese militia that committed the massacre were right wing Phlangists, they were under the operational control of the Israeli Defense Forces(IDF). Therefore, the almost super­human stupidity of using these troops to "guard" campsfull oftheir hated enemies, and then failing to act for 24 hours after suspicions of massacre arose, falls fully on the IDF, Menachem Begin, and Ariel Sharon. Begin and Sharon have managed to use the international outcry to strengthen their position at home, and q::eate a seige mentality within their goveni'tnent. 
With almost equal idiocy, the Syrian government aids and abets the remnants of the PLO in Lebanon while refusing to evacuate its nearly 30,000 troops from the Beklea valley. This can only result eventually in another military clash. This would be unfor­tunate for Syria, for in recent weeks the Syrians have shown themselves to be rather poor warriors, having a 1 to 83 loss ratio against the Israeli air force. 
In the 1973 war, Syrian tank losses outnum­bered the Israelis 70 to 1. It would appear, therefore, that 300,000 Syrians might be able to stay in Lebanon when attacked by 70,000 Israelis, but not 30,000. The self-defeating policy of provoking the Israelis to attack by using the PLO appears to have been chosen by the Syrians. In the long run this will result in the permanent loss ofthe West Bank, the Gaza strip, the Golan Heights, and the partition of Lebanon. That is, barring direct Soviet inter­
vention or American involvement, which would result in World War Ill In the meantime Begin and Sharon are free to pursue their dream of "greater Israel" which does very little but create more refugees, more camps, more terrorists, and more deaths on both sides. 
What struck me the most, however, was the coverage given to both situations. Slaughters do not sell magazines anymore, only super­stars and other trivia does. What we want is a diversion from the sordid reality facing us. Royalty is interesting, even in death, while slaughter is not. We have seen too much ofit. It is better copy to cover Princess Grace's death than just another massacre. 
Only in the twentieth century has it become an accepted policyofgovernments to control their citizens by mass murder. The millions of Armenian dead, slaughtered by Turks in 1915, the untold millions killed in the Russian Civil War, the purges of Stalin, culminating with approximately 30 million kulaks exterminated, Hitler's Germany with the blood of 12 million on its hands all come to mind. Add to these the astronomical totals the "small" atrocities ofour time: Mai Lai, the Bataan Death March, Katyn Forest, Malmedy, Ireland, Cambodia, Lebanon; the list is nearly endless. We are so drenched with blood, so sick ofdeath, that another couple of hundred can make no impression on our battered sen­sibilities. I make no claim to special moral 

feelings, the numbers above are so huge and encompass so much suffering my mind refuses to attempt to understand and grasp them. 
We cannot, however, merely turn away in horror from our environment. In an age where whatever is practical is possible, we must speak against all such senseless slaughter. We must not lose our sensibilities and become numb to the wholesale slaughter of our time. That's why I disliked the "personal touch" of just covering Princess Grace's death merely because we can grasp that and sympathize with it. Besides, it makes money. The media must not only be enjoyable; it must be informative, orit loses its purpose. It is necessary to have the stomach to look horror in the face, acknowledge its presence, and resist its further spread. Our century has seen (God have mercy on us) so much death that the time has come to make an effort to shake off the numbness of mind and heart that comes from terror and resist all such crimes to our fullest abilities. The values I am taught at Notre Dame tell me that it is not just my obligation, it is my duty. Our govern­ment's steps to preserve the fragile peace in the Middle East are a courageous step in the right direction. 

Author's note: While those who know me are aware that I am in ROTC and might quickly ask the question: "How can a baby killer like you write this peace-nik editorial?"I answer that the true duty ofany soldier is to keep the peace and safeguard those in his charge. For those ofyou who claim that armies are un­necessary, arcbaic holdovers, I respectfully request you examine history and human nature. Until humans are redeemed, only morally aware and vigilant people who are •• willing to resist tyranny will stop its spread. We must be prepared to do so or history will continue to unhappily repeat itself. 
Achild's need to know 
P.O. Box Q 
Dear Editor: 
On Monday, October 11, Tom Mowle published an article entitled "Opening of adoption records: needless pain." As an adoptee who bas searched for and found her birth parents, I found this article mis­represented this social rights issue. Indeed, Mr. Mowle's admission at the end that he " ...cannot claim to completely under­stand ..."reenforced my basic malaise with his account. 
Well, Mr. Mowle, why did I search for my birth parents? All of my life for as long as I can remember, I have known that I was adopted. For me, finding my birth parents was something I always dreamed of doing, something that my mother and father told me they would willingly help me do. I wanted to know if I had my birth mother's eyes, my birth fathers's chin and to whom I owed my general physique. What was my birth mother who went through such emo­tional trauma and social ostracization at age 
I6 like? What was my birth father who 
wanted to take on the responsibility of a 
family at age l8like? 
Curiosity? Yes, the type of curiosity that 
unadopted children also seek to solve by 
observing and asking their parents ques­
tions. But this is only one part of the whole 
picture. I'm sorry Mr. Mowle, but there was 
somethin~ beyond curiosity for me. 
First, there was my concern for my birth parents \1y mothtT ··~etl to tell me how worried she would ,JVe been each and eve!)· day if she ha< :iven up a child for adoption. Sht· often v •dered how mv birth mother must have felt when my birthday rolled around in August. Imagine gong through nine months out ofa respect for life, only to have what you helped give birth to taken away and raised by another. Imagine .':!2\nding by and letting your seed be given away. Indeed, when my birth mother and I finally did traverse physical boundaries to meet, she expressed these same thoughts to me. "I always wondered how you were; if I'd made the right choice." And with my birth father it was a question of whether he had " ...made the right choice in accepting (my) birth mother's decision to not get married but to give (me) up for adoption." I wanted to tell them that I was fine, happy and in love with life. 
And lastly, I felt a bit incomplete. I have loving parents, a good life and a promising age 18 -I also had a gap in my personal history. I knew so little about those who had given me my chance to live. We are definite­ly creatures ofenvironment, but some parts ofwho we are, are innate, I believe. I needed to see the complete picture ofwho I was. 
And as my adoption agency told me, more than three-fourths of the adoption reunions that occur are desired by both parties con­cerned. These situations are not the simple somebody vs. somebody cases the article made them out to be and most people believe them to be. My birth mother came to realize this through our correspondences also. Even if her initial reaction was one of anger at a breach of anonymity, her second and more truthful reaction which she holds to this day, was one of relief. And as for my birth father, it was a contact he had dreamed about tor J 8 years I succeeded in finding my btrth part·nts without the aid of files I as tuCK\ But there are other~, both auoptees 3nd birth parents. who are not so fortunate and \'et who still try. M'lybe we should all take a closer look before we fall back on the simple and incomplete understandings that most of us assume withour even having ex­perienced it. 
Robin Brown Arts and Letters, 84 


Vets: second-class Americans 
Dear Editor, 
Three wars in which this country has been engaged in since 1940 have passed. Young men and women are being required by laws ofthe land to register for future drafts. From the news media, we are informed that three young men will have to serve time in our pt isons for refusing to register on the grounds that it is against their religious beliefs to do so. 
There are many lay and religious groups throughout America's campuses which espouse "peace and justice" philosophies, but as members of the Committee for Veterans for Constitutional Rights, we must ask each and everyone of you: How can there be peace of mind and justice, when one of the most important segments of the population in America, the Disabled American Veterans, have been denied their most human and constitutional rights to gain access into our Federal Courts by Congres­sional laws written in 1940? Why have we been denied the rights of review, the rights blatantly abused by the Veterans Administra­tion, who adjudicates claims by their rules and regulations procedures. There are over 3.5 million disabled veterans today whose "service connected dis­abilities" will never be proven. They'll never receive benefits because they are denied the same citizenship rights which all of you in civilian status enjoy! Legally, morally, and humanistically, these people have a right to a fair and unbiased trial. Congress passed a law in October of 1940 stating that ex-military personnel attaining a civilian-veteran status after service would be deprived of their Constitutional rights in federal court if they filed ch!!!!ls against the government and the 
Veterans Ad~inistration. Titie ~u. 3~; _:;ec­tion 21 I(a) is the legal vehicle for this im­moral law. ln the same Title volume, section number 3404 made certain that veterans 
would not be able to secure "due process of 
law." The law stipulated that any legal attor­
ney contemplating on representing a 
veteran's claim must do so on the condition 
that, in the words of the Veteran's Ad­
ministrations Board of Appeals, he or she 
will not charge more than S/0.00 for their 
legal services! Veterans are also not allowed 
to cross examine any VA officials on how 
they arrived at their decisions in the claims. 
The magnitude of these findings uncover­
ing the unconstitutionality ofthese laws and 
regulations, coupled with the fact that each 
of you students may, at some time in your 
careers, be called upon to serve in our 
country's milital)· services, could subject 
you to the very same situations we veterans 
have experienced. If you came home 
disabled, you too could be a victim of this 
denial of your Constitutional rights. 
We are asking for all your help in support· 
ing a movement to correct this gross in­
justice by writing me at my home address or 
writing to your state's Congressional leaders 
and urge them to support passage of the 
Veterans Judicial Review Bill. The bill plans 
to set up a separate Court of Veterans Ap· 
peals that will free veterans from having to 
continuously face officials who took the 
brunt of these traumatic decisions. This bill 
will set up legal avenues that will make these 
officials accountable for their decisions of 
tomorrow. 

As the Co-Chairman for Veterans for Con­stitutional Rights, I will make myself available to your student political action group for a series of lectures on this vital Judicial Review Bill, which is"now pending in the U.S. Senate. 
Stephen "Boog" Marozsan Co-Chairman Veteransfor {;[]r!Jtitutional Rights 

Steak and Ale: quiet and pleasant 

John Riggins 
restaurant review 
'"]""1his week my mysterious and 
.l sultry dining partner and I dined at Steak and Ale on U.S. 31 across from the North Villiage Mall. Decorated like an English inn, the best description of the res­taurant is dark and quiet. With stone walls and dim lights, the separate dining rooms provide a sense ofintimacy unavailable in most restaurants this ~ize. True to its name, the menu mainly consists ofsteak; chicken, seafood and quiche are also featured. 
Steak and Ale's drink special is outstanding. Most drinks are 2-for­1 during dinner, with specialty drinks, daiquiris, margaritas and pina colada.~ starting at S2. The strawberry daiquiri had decidedly too little rum and my scotch was on the light side. The wine list wa.~ uninteresting, leaning heavily toward nationally distributed brands like Lancer's and Mateus. Most wines were relatively inex­pensive. The appetizer selection was limited. We skipped the chilled shrimp ( S3.95 ), choosing instead the the French onion soup ( Sl.95) and stuffed mushrooms ( S2.95 ). The onion soup was a pleasant surprise; I found I didn't need the decorative sword I had ripped from the wall to do battle with the cheese. The soup was delicious and hot enough to keep the cheese melted and smooth, not stringy. The sautee(! mushrooms were undercooked but the crab­meat stuffing was good. 
The salad bar offered a nice variety oftoppings with cheese, real bacon, raisins, su'nflowh : • seeds, beets (beets?) and several dressings. The best part, though, was the plates. Where else do you find chilled salad plates at a salad bar? The bread loafwas soft and warm outside but cold in the middle. 
The entrees varied from steaks and prime rib ( S5.95· S 12.95 ), broiled shrimp ( $9.95 ), Flounder stufffed with crabmeat, shrimp and cheese ( $7.95) and lobster ( n 4.95 ); marinated chicken 
( 
56.95) and quiche ( S5.45 ). We opted for smothered chicken 

( 
7.95) and the featured Ken­sington Club sirloin steak ( S9.75 ). The chicken, thick with provolone cheese, mushrooms and onions, was tender and moist. The meat could have stood a little more seasoning. The rice pilafwas also underseasoned. 


The evening's big disappoint­ment was the steak. I had ordered it medium-well and it came very, very rare. This is inexcusable in a restaurant whose emphasis is on beef Beyond that, it was fairly ten­der and the marinade was good. The potato was stuffed with cheese and bacon and was properly cooked. I resented, however, the extra charge for the rice and potato. 
For dessert we had the strawber­ry cheesecake and hot fudge cake and ice cream. The cheesecake was "not bad, not great," according to my otherwise silent partner, and less than attractive sitting in a small puddle ofstrawberry juices. The ice cream cake was huge but the fudge was cold. The waitress was very pleasant and the service good. Our total bill came to :i\37 or so including two drinks. 
I found Steak and Ale to be quiet and pleasant. Ifyou like steak, you'lllove their menu. Ifnothing else take advantage oftheir 2-for1 happy hour. Also, you never know what Notre Dame dignitary you might encounter at dinner. 

Seventy-six trombones 
ceventy-six trombones lead the big showplace that spotlights futuristic 
Jparade ofthe All American Col­ideas and technologies with the lege Marching Band, and two trom­natural histories and splendors of bonists will be Notre Dame's own many nations, in ride-through ad­Stephanie A. Korcheck and Robert F. venture shows and visual attrac­O'Donnell. Tenor saxophonist, 
tions. Joseph F. MacKrell will join these 

After the parade, there will be a N.D. band students on Saturday, Oc­
grand entrance and the All American tober 23, for the Grand Opening of 
Marching Band will present the the Epcot Center in Orlando Florida. 
Music ofAmerica. According to tenor saxophonist, MacKrell, the
Jeanne C.tanmets 

Music ofAmerica will include such tunes as, "Yankee Doodle March", "76 Trombones", "American 
features Patriotic Medley", "World Showcase --------------March", and many more. All of the Among the fifty states, from 146 music must be memorized. This Colleges and Universities, 450 band gives the students three weeks to 
students will congregate in Florida memorize at least 40 pages of new to produce the American College music, claims MacKrell. Marching Band. This band will The three N.D. students who were 
represent the United States of chosen for the All American March-America among twenty-five other ing Band applied last April, and nations in the celebration of the received their acceptance inJune. Grand Opening ofWalt Disney's Ep-According to trombonist Donnell, cot Center. the three people applying from N.D. 
According to trom-were accepted. He attributes this to bonist,Korcheck, the experience is a "luck" or "the right combination", once in a lifetime thing, like being meaning the instrument played, the present in the making of history. State residing in and the College or 
The opening ofthe Epcot Center University attending. Each N.D. will bring about a new era in enter-band member chosen has had eight tainment, states the Erie, Pa., Times. to nine years ofexperience on their ''The Epcot Center is a 260 acre instrument, combined with High complex which provides a per-School marching and three years on manent World's fair ofimagination, the Notre Dame Marching Band. discovery and exploration," claims There was no trv-ou~ f~~ !~:': :Jl the designers at W.E.D. enterprises. .A.:7.<:rican Marching Band, states 
i:~ center iS~-~ miiBoD....., •· M""a£kielliifw$6dlyamau-er6t.:"'::~:: 
applying."They probably assume 
that coming from N.D., we are 
responsible, good musicians." 
Each University or College mem­ber is to wear their own band uni­form, according to the Epocot Newsletter, to" ...retain individual identities and guarantee a colorful show effect ..." Disney will provide a special overlay and shako to overdress each uniform. 
Sunday, October 24, marks the of­ficial Grand Opening ofthe Epcot Center. Participating with the All American Marching Band will be in­ternational preformers, the West Point Glee Club, a professional or­chestra, noted guest conductors and representatives from many countries. These events will be featured in a one hour television special October 25, on the CBS Television Network. 
Rehearsal for this All American Marching Band will begin upon ar­rival, Monday, October 17, and ex­tend for five days. Disney picks up the bill for all of the transportation, hotel and food bills. As MacKrell states, "It's a free tan courtesy of Walt Disney, plus the experience of representing my country and meeting all different kinds of neat people. Donnell feels that it is not only the opening ofthe Epcot Cen­ter that is important, but the con­Tfyou toneed a study breakSunday, theex'hillliti1000f1[)wtcll 
·.!artfrom thecolJe4."tion ofDr. A.C.R. Dreesman will 4 pm. l'he exhibition is one ofthe many cultural place this year between the United States <1nd the Ne~~~cls; celebrationofthe bicentennial ofrelations between rn.,..r,M">., :. countries. The Dreesman collection ofpaintings. dr.~in~~ •­cela.in and silver is comprised ofwork from the Dutch art, the seventeenth century. At that time combined to create a "Greekfire'' vfcultun:: the intellectual and soc~al divetsj,ty, 3,tt ur~ tn¢:t;c~ltlnle f newly gained independence, and,. finally, 
Angie Adamson \ 

ou\c.b \ce() 
nat:rat1lves fo~ <le<:oratin~ public 
...,"'~-da,y at 9q'>iotl;ngthe desired me~ nsuatHu:ts ofthe Du,tcb republic le~ .·w~ Jllllll1i1rv otwmern:culture. . · 
'J'hf:Dre~~~bf~on includesmany ~dmarkwo:rksoft:be~~e 111 :maste~; ltq?~ted inthe show~ Bembtandt,Jan vru:a uc>ven. Jacob~ Ruisdael, Ni<ibolas ~and Fld)ritus. Evident in many 
Wnrb Wiltl;)¢a cot\cemwith tbe sUbtle etfeets ofUght and with text11re, withdepiction offine things and with If' tnllP<J!I'tant inpa\ntings()fthis period.·The show willbe held 
l:ept behind it -all of the different Dt'liwing and Pllotography Gallery on the second countries participating in 4. peaceful Museum ofAtt. ;': 
:.ao4-t~'"\:~t~~en;._ .. . . .. 

INSIDE: Taming the Wildcats 
See OUTLOOK, page 4A
,,,~

Hunley a fair. weather foe 
A South Bend snowstorm sent Arizona's leading tackler to Tucson -­
Mike Johnston 
By DOUG MEAD 
SportsEditor 
Arizona Daily Wildcal 
TUCSON, Ariz. -If it wasn't for bad weather in South Bend three winters ago, Ricky Hunley might be playing for the Notre Dame Fighting Irish. Instead, he headed west for warmer weather and the University of Arizona. 
Hunley, a highly recruited linebacker out of Petersburg, Va., had planned to make a recruiting visit to Notre Dame, but when a snow storm hit, he delayed his visit and changed his travel plans for Tucson, where the UA campus is located. 
"Everybody thought it was the ultimate being recruited by Notre Dame, " Hunley said ofhis friends and neighbors. "When the coach from Notre Dame (then Dan Devine) came down, everybody was all excited. They wanted me to go to Notre Dame." 
But when Hunley stepped off the plane in Tucson, the: sun was shining and ther was no snow on the ground. He cancelled the Notre Dame trip and announced he was going to 
Arizona. 
The weather was not the: only factor in his coming to Arizona, though. He was also in­tere5ted in playing baseball in the spring. and Arizona was wiUing to let him play both sports. The Pitt5burgh Pirates drafted him in the 26th round and invited him to Florida for a week to work out with the Rookie league. But when only $6,000 was offered as a signing bonus. Hunley said, "Show me the way to the airport." 

After two jayvee campaigns in baseball, Hunley felt he probably would not play baseball this year. Football has taken the front seat and baseball has been sec aside. 
"1 didn't have a baseball scholarship," Hun­ley said, "but they gave me the chance to work my way up from the bottom like everybody else. It would take a lot of overtime and dedication on my part to make it." 
The effort Hunley could have pu( into baseball was put into football. As a freshman, Hunley earned a starting spot midway through the season and finished second on the team in defensive points. He was named the Pac-lO's Player of the Week in UA's upset vic­tory over UCLA and was selected to Football News and Blue Chip Magazine freshman All­America first teams. 
Having never lifted weights, Hunley hit the weight room in the off-season with such fer­vor that he soon became one ofthe strongest players on the team. The improvement con­tinued his sophomore year when he: led the team in defensive points en route to con­ference honors, but he said he was surprised when he was named honorable mention All· America 
"Everybody has dreams of being All­American in college and hi(lh school," he said. "I remember when I was In high school, I could foresee it, it was something I wanted But you start thinking In numbers of how many people in the country· that play high 
See HUNLEY, page 4A 
Ricky Hunley 





laying for kicks 
.Johnstongoesforfieldgoal 
ecord as Irish take on Arizona 
ByED KONRADY 
Sports Writer 
"This will our toughest game ofthe season." 
-Gerry Faust 

This is the fifth straight week that Faust has said this, but Saturday against Arizona, he might just be correct. Why? 
•Arizona's 
1-2-1 record is misleading. They lost to the number one team in the nation, Washington, (whom they outscored 13-3 in the second half} and were tied in the last seconds by UCLA. 

• 
Arizona is known for their upsets on the road. In 1980, they defeated UCLA at Los Angeles and the following year they repeated themselves at the Coliseum against USC. 

•Notre 
Dame is coming off an emotional win against Miami, and to face a 1-2-1 team could prove fertile ground for a mental letdown. 

•Arizona 
has out-rushed their opponents this season. 

•Arizona 
has out-scored their opponents this season. 

•Arizona 
has more passing yardage than their opponents this season. 

• 
Arizona has more interceptions than their opponents this season. 

•Arizona 
has more pass receptions than their opponents this season. 




Yes, this may just become the toughest game ofthe season. 
Notre Dame is having its problems offensively. Kicker Mike Johnston has been the salvation week after week. This weekend, the senior walk-on from Rochester, N.Y., will be going after an all-time Irish record -10 straight successful field goals. His next three-pointer will tie the record. 
The Wildcat offense is a potent one, led by junior quarterback Tom Tun­nicliffe. Last week against UCLA, Tunnicliffe passed for 178 yards. So far this year, he has hit 64 of 114 passes for 79S yards and five touchdowns. 

r-­
The Irish Extra -Arizona 


Thayer's place in histor 
Notre Dame's versatile lineman write his own chapter in Irish grid lore 
By LOUIE SOMOGYI 
Sports Writer 

Last week's Miami game left its impacts on 
Notre Dame senior strong-guard Tom Thayer 
in three ways. 

First, it marked the fourth different position (center) that the Joliet, 111inois native has played in his four-year career -a feat seldom, if ever, paralleled in Notre Dame football his­tory. After lettering as a defensive tackle his freshman year, the 6-5 268-pound Thayer, who bench presses 450-pounds, has al­ternated at playing offensive guard and tackle before being switched over to center against the Hurricanes because of Mark Fischer's in­jury. 
Secondly, it guaranteed him a place in Notre Dame historical lore -in the chapter on courage and faith. 
Years from now, Notre Dame alumni and subway alumni will probably still be retelling this story. 
"Hey Thayer," Miami's nose guard Tony Fitzpatrick yelled. Notre Dame had turned the ball over with 2:58 reamining in the game and trailing 14-13. 
"It's over," he grinned. "It's all over. You guys are nothing." Thayer turned, with a grin ofhis own. "This is Notre Dame," he said. "It's never over." 
The two headed to the sidelines ­Fitzpatrick laughing heartily at Thayer's state­ment. 
"After we got the ball back and Phil (Carter) took that screen pass for 25-yards, I looked over at Fitzpatrick and told him 'Here we come,"' recalls Thayer with a laugh. "He just started shaking his head in disbelief." 
Ofcourse, Notre Dame went on to win 16­14. That victory was the third and most significant happening for Thayer in the game. Ironically, though, the triumph has left him a little confused. 
"We earn a tremendous win over a great football team, and the thing we hear most is how inconsistent and conservative our of­fense is," he says. 
Indeed, the offense has come under fire in the last two weeks. Scoring only one touch­down (that on an 11-yard drive) in the last two games can do that to you. 
"We've had some errors and tough breaks," Thayer admits of the offense, "But when we needed to, we wore down all four teams we played this year in the second half. We believe in ourselves. There wasn't anybody in our huddle in that final drive against Miami that didn't believe we wouldn't win." 
Nevertheless, the first four games of this season are ominously similar to the first four games of 1980. That team also started out 4-0 by defeating the exact four teams which the team has defeated this year. Later that year, the predictable, conservative offense seemed to fold -scoring only five touchdowns in the last five games, and winning only two ofthose games. 
Playing teams like Pittsburgh, Penn State and Southern Cal in three of the final four games can lead one to believe that the conser­vatism will eventually catch up with the Irish -the way it did in 1980. 
Not so, says Thayer. 

"First ofall, none of us could care less who we are playing later on," he says. "Arizona is a darn good football team in its own right. The fact that they will be playing Notre Dame will make them all the more better. 
"Secondly, there is a big difference between this team and the one in 1980. That was a very young and somewhat immature team ( 14 of the 22 regulars by the end of the year were either sophomores or freshman). 
"We were good (with a 9-2-1 finish) and close as a team. But when a lot of us younger players that year needed to be, or wanted to be, leaders, we didn't step forward because we were afraid that the older guys wouldn't respect us as much. 
"This year we're not only experienced seniors or juniors, but we have everyone speak their own peace in the huddle or on the sideline-and we respect it." 
Thayer bubbles with confidence when he 
speaks ofthis year's team and its chances for a 
national championship, and he becomes 
agitated when people feel that such talk after a 
5-6 season is a sure sign ofa swelling head. 
"We are not getting the big head," he 
stresses. "We don't have time to get the big 
head. I bet ifyou were to ask every member of 
the team what the score in just last week's 
game was, half of them wouldn't know. We 
were happy and celebrated after the Miami 
game, but by Sunday afternoon the only thing 
we were talking about was Arizona. 

"We're taking one game at a time. We're not 
playing any mind games and "what ifs" with 
the future. We've built such a good thing for 
ourselves so far this year that we realize it 
would be a shame to throw it all away. Ifyou 
had seen our practices this week you would 
know that we're not satisfied just because 
we're 4-0. The intensity has just been great." 
The new position is perhaps most ap­poropriate for Thayer. Whether it's rebutting criticism of the offense, knocking opposing defenders over backwards, or standint g up for the Notre Dame tradition when others sneer at it, he is a man that commands attention; and is one who will always be the "center" ofit 
~ inability to get the ball into the end zone. Last week Kiel rolled out for a touchdown, but on­ly after a Miami fumble gave the Notre Dame the ball on the Hurricane 11-yard line. 
Tom Thayer 


Backfield Battle 
Kiel and Tunnicliffe reunited after freshman match-up 
By SKIP DESJARDIN 
Sports EditorEmeritus 
It has always been the quarterbacks -if you can justifiably call the two previous meeungs between Notre Dame and Attzonh.1 "always"
· . 
In I94I,Johnny LuJack_made the first start 
ofhts career agamst the Wtldcats. and the Insh 
won, 38·7­
In 1980, Tim Tunnicliffe made the first start 
of his career against the Irish, and Blair Kiel 
had one of the best nights of his career as the 
two teams squared offfor the second time. 
This weekend, Kiel and Tunnicliffe will 
again be the starters. But things will be some­
what different this time. 
Since that warm October night in Tucson, 
Tunnicliffe has gone on to an outstanding 
career. He is now the second leading passer in 
Arizona history. Time and again, he has come 
up with his best performances against the 
toughest teams. Last season, he completed 21 
of his 37 passes -good for 293 yards-in a 
13-10 upset ofNo. !-ranked Southern Cal. The 
previous year, he hit 12 of 18 for 21 7 yards en 
route to an upset of No. 2 UCLA, 23-1 7. 
Kiel, who ran 80 yards with a fake punt to 
break the 1980 game wide open, has not been 
as succesful. Whereas Tunnicliffc won his 
starting job outright, Kiel was forced to battle 
for his with Mike Courey and, later, Tim 
Koegel. Until this season, he had not come 
close to the success he found that night in the 
desert. 

This weekend, both junior quarterbacks are 
coming off big games. Tunnicliffe threw for 
I 78 yards in the Wildcats' surprise tic with 
ninth-ranked UCLA. Kiel had his best day, in 
terms of percentage, since the last time he 
faced Arizona. Against Miami he completed 
more passes ( 21-3 3) than ever before, for 167 
yards. 

"We have got to get more consistent," 
Coach Gerry Faust says of his Irish. "We've 
been running well at times, and passing well, 
too. But we have to put both together, and 
come up with sustained drives. 
"I think our offense really proved some­thing in that winning drive against Miami. That was the fist time all year we were behind, and I couldn't have been happier with the way we rose to the challenge." 
But Faust is still worried about his team's 
"It's a concern anytime you can't punch the ball into the end zone," he admits. "But our goal is to get points on the board when we get inside the 30-yard line, and we've been doing
that." ,Wildcat Coach Larry Smith is pleased with hi~ club's progress so far. "We are a young team," he says. "But we 
have good experience in our front line 
people. We played well in all aspects of the 
game last week. 
"But we can't go into Notre Dame thinking about how we could have beaten UCLA, or we'II get waxed., 
Both quarterbacks have talented people be­hind them. "Phil Carter is a great running back," Smith says. "The whole team is big and 
strong. Notre Dame is just a very fine football 
team." 
Carter. who moved into fifth place on the all-time Irish rushing list last week, came alive in the fourth quarter -particularly in the winning drive. He still is not picking up a lot of yards on each carry, but he is getting the ball on over half the Notre Dame running plays. 
Tunnicliffe has Vance Johnson, one of last 
season's top freshman, behind him. Put simp­
ly, Johnson does it all. He's rushed for 192 
yards this season, despite missing the Wash­
ington and UCLA games. A tough pass­
catching threat, Johnson also ranks secoind in 
the country in kickoff returns, and 14th in all­
purpose running at 130.3 yards per game. 
The freshman All-Ameican is the key to a 
speedy offensive attack. 
"He's one of the best all-around runners in 
the country," says Faust "And Tunnicliffe has 
matured into a fine all-around quarterback. 
The two will be tough to beat." 
The Wildcats are a tough road team, as 
they've shown time and again. This week will 
be no different. 
Though most would see last week's game as 
a moral victory for Arizona, Smith is not one of 
them. 
''I'm very disappointed," he says. "We had a 
great victory snatched from our hands. UCLA 
tied us, we didn't tie them." 
The Wildcats pulled off that surprise be­
cause of Tunnicliffe, but without Johnson. 
That will make tham that much tougher this 
weekend. 
The Irish meanwhile, have been struggling 
somewhat offensively -despite fine in­
dividual performances from Kiel and Carter. 
Those four men should combine to make . this the most exciting, and the closest, ofany in this series to date. 
Tom Tunnicliffe 


The Irish Extra -Arizona Friday, October 15, 1982-page 3A 

• • • Outlook 
continuedfrom page JA 

"I suppose people may tend to overlook Arizona a little bit with UCLA, 
Washington, and Arizona State all unbeaten in their own league, but I'm sure 
their performance at UCI.A Saturday will make some folks wake up and take 
notice," says Faust. ''You look at their season, and Arizona is not far from 4-0 
at this point. Iowa had to drive 80 yards to kick a field goal with less than 
three minutes to play in order to beat them, and they played a great second 
half against Washington. 

"They gained 499 yards against Oregon State, so they certainly have the 
capability ofputting points on the board.." 
In the Arizona backfield will be a pair of sophomores, fullback Courtney 
Griffith, who has 44 carries for 224 yards, and tailback Phil Freedman, with 
3 7 carries for 116 yards. 

Returning at tailback for the Wildcats will be Vance Johnson, who has 
great speed -and is the NCAA long jump champion. Johnson is second in 
the NCAA in kickoff returns with an average of 32.7 yards. He led the 
Wildcats with 192 yards rushing before he missed the UCI.A contest with a 
bruised shoulder. 

AccompaningJohnson back into the Wildcat fold will be Brian Holland, 
who caught four passes and rushed for I 5 yards against the Irish two years 
ago. Holland became academically eligible for the first time this year, and 
can be expected to see some action. Holland has been Arizona's leading 
rusher in each ofthe last two seasons with 590 yards in 1980 and 577 yards 
in 1981. 

Faust characterized the offensive line as "huge and very mobile," weighing 
in at 23.3, 270, 244, 250, 254, and 265 across the line. 
The offensive line is led by Jeff Kiewel. The senior right guard, the 254 
pounder ofthe line, was a second-team all·Pac I 0 pick in 1981. 
Tunnicliffe's top recievers are a pair of seniors, split-end Brad Anderson, 
whose 19 catches have gained 31 7 yards, and tight end Mark Keel, with nine 
catches for 135 yards. 

The defense is "as good as any we've played against," said Faust. "The 
linebackers have both speed and size. The secondary is well coached, which 
is obvious by the number oftheir interceptions." 
The Wildcat defense is led by All· Pacific 10 inside linebacker Randy Hun· 
ley. junior Hunley has led the team in tackles throughout the season and has 
two interceptions. "With senior Glenn Perkins, they form one ofthe better 
combinations in the country at linebacker," said Faust. "They've improved 
this year defensively, no question about it. They held the top-ranked team in 
the country to only a field goal in the second half, and they had Iowa on the 
ropes all afternoon. They held UCLA to only 65 yards on the ground, and 
forced them to throw probably a little more than they wanted to, and that's 
the mark ofa good defense." 

Faust himself is very impressed with Arizona, and is expecting quite a game. "Arizona always rallies when they play better teams. Under Larry Smith, the Wildcats are known for always being well-coached. 
"My big concern is on our mental attitude after our Miami revenge. One thing that will help us prepare for the game is how Arizona played against Washington and that they tied UCLA last week. The players know that Arizona is a good football team. 
"Letdowns are always a problem when you play a schedule like ours and Arizona's. They don't have to get ready for us, but next week they face Pacific. 
"Playing us b like playing a bowl game. Teams are always ready for us." 

Vance Johnson 
Mike Larkin 

continuedfrompage JA 
school football, and how many they get to choose from to be an All-American, gol-ly, that's a lot of people. 
"The day I saw my name in the paper for honorable mention, I said, 'Dan, the honorable mention list is this long,"' he said holding his hands apart about a foot, "and all these are linebackers. I said I got to go home and go to work." 
This summer the honors continued when he was named to Playboy Magazine's pre· season All-America squad. But the accolades have their downfall, too. 
"Yeh, as far as the opponents, I get double teamed a lot," he said with a chuckle. "When we were playing Washington, I was seeing two, three guys, just stepping over and away from them. It only makes you better, though. I have to hustle more; I have to chase the play down instead ofjust running right at it. A lot of plays are ran away from me instead of right at me." 
In Hunley's two-plus years, the Wildcats have been up and down from week to week. One week they can lose to a lowly Colorado State or Fresno State, but what has helped Hunley get the nationwide recognition has been victories over the biggies -UCLA two years ago when they were ranked No. 2, USC last year when the Trojans were top-ranked 
• Hunley 
and the 24-24 tie with No.8 UCLA last Satur­day. 
"I guess it's the attitude that we as players and the coaches take on the other teams," Hunley said ofthe inconsistencies. "We've got to learn that we can be beat hy anybody, but we can also beat anybody. 
"When we play good teams, everybody gets real p~;yched up because they want to beat them, they want to embarrass them. They want to let people know that were not losers. we can win. I think the guys are tired oflosing. We're ready to go out and prove ourselves." 
Of the upsets, one common factor has prevailed. The games have been played in the afternoon -a contrast from the traditional night games at Arizona Stadium. 
"I just love games like that, especially during the day,' he said with a grin. "I like to get up in the morning and go play football and go home in the afternoon and rest and relax. The night games just drag out, it makes a long day. But I guess that's part ofArizona tradition. 
"I would rather play during the day hours instead ofthe night. You waste a lot ofenergy just waiting." 
Saturday Ricky Hunley will make the trip to South Bend that he never made, and the Wildcats, 1-2-1, will play another biggie -the ninth-ranked Fighting Irish in an afternoon game at Notre Dame Stadium, just the way Hunley likes it. 
The Irish Extra -Arizona Friday, October 15, 1982 -page 4A 
Notre Dame vs. Arizona 
I 
~ 
r 
I 

--~-----------­
----~----~­
..... 


The Observer Features Section 
Friday, October 15, 1982-page 9 
Ifyou love Jesus 
E
very October, the original Darby O'Gill ( 1970-romped in the faith-filled pawprints ofhis predecessor, 1980, r.i.p.) used to turn religious. With most dogs, and sniffed at the identical bushes and trees. I've taken you can't tell if they've been born again or not. But old him to all the spots where Pan might play his pipe for a Darby, limping around on his bad hind leg with the creature. In my most Olympian Latin, I have sweetness ofthe lame boy Tiny Tim, would begin a proclaimed: "Darbatius (Secundus) O'Gill: this is a dialogue with creation. Ifl had said, "Bark once, ifyou flame-colored tree. See how the leaves come drifting loveJesus," he would have barked like a fundamentalist. down." He just wants to check the North Quad to see if I had no wish to vulgarize him like a bumpersticker; he students have left him bits oftheir breakfast doughnuts was a cocker spaniel, not an evangelist. In whatever pre­strewn upon the ground. Christian creed he clung to, he didn't need a saviour to I've chased leaves for him, afterwaiting and watching die for his sins. He had no wish to caper on street cor­for their graceful flutter, to show him his predecessor ners as a way ofwitnessing to Amazing Grace. did it. While I'm rubbing my nose in the earth in a ritual 
ofwelcome, as an example he can follow, he saunters 
•THEATRE offto find an old bagel left over from Menachem Begin
Rev. Robert Gtiffin "Arnie, what you gonna do?" Go see The Taming ofthe Shrew, the 
night in the dining halls. 

first production in the 1982-83 Theatre Department's MainstageI take him to play among the shrubs in front ofthe season. Complete with a country band to introduce the westernized Dome, hoping that some wood sprite will evangelize
letters to a lonely god production, their repertoire includes Pure Prarie League's "Arnie" 
him in the polytheism ofplant life. So far as I can tell, he and an original composition which is the theme song ofthe show. 
In the autumn, burning bushes called him to religious remains unshrined, as Christians are said to be un­Tickets are S3 for general admission, $2.50 for students, senior attention. He would sit in front ofa maple, all scarlet churched, in any ofthe temples ofnature. I've even read citizens, faculty and staff Curtain goes up at 8 p.m. tonight andwith the season, like a nun before an altar. He would run him some ofthe poetry ofWordsworth, which should 
tomorrow night. 

to greet the leaves as they fell, the maitre d' ofthe be pagan enough for a satyr. Darby fell asleep on hearing Macbeth, a fast-paced study in evil and ambition, will begin its runcoutryside. He lived in a state ofhigh excitement, rivall­the great Immortality ode. It couldn't have sounded like tonight at 8:15p.m. in the Indiana Univeristy at South Bend Theatreing religious novices in their first fervour. I would good news from Pelion and Ossa. 
Company's Northside Theatre. The production will be repeated Oc­
awake in the night to find him sleepless, his paws on the With the exception ofthe Huddle, his favorite spot is tober 16, 22 and 23. IUSB's Division ofContinuing Education willwindow sill, listening to the wind move through the the Grotto. In eating, he has always preferred people sponsor an evening ofpre-theatre lectures about the play, dinnerbranches. He would rouse me early, to take him out to food, like any other dog. It is silly to say he would prefer and a performance ofthe play on October 22. For ticket information see the gift darkness had left, showered in color on the peoples' religion to some reverence built on. instinct. 
call237-4396. ground. The old Darby's ashes are buried in the Grotto; it I don't know what local deities he served, what pagan seemed .the proper place to bring them when he died. I 
•MUSIC power ofwind or weather, or even the great Pan him­always prayed there for his well being. Finally, the time The Michiana New Music Ensemble will open its second seasonself, the god ofall nature, who fathers life in the lower came when Our Lady seemed to say: He's been playing Sunday evening at 8 p.m. with the world premiere of"In the Midst ofkingdom. Autumn was, for Darby, his Ramadan and Eas­for a long, long day. Let him sleep now, and replace him Calms," a two-piano work composed by Roger Briggs, assistant ter. He moved through the fall landscape as though he with a puppy. 

music professor at Saint Mary's. The concert will be presented free ofhad been called to worship with Druids in their pagan Maybe in some way I don't know of, the old dog charge in the Little Theatre in Moreau Hall at Saint Mary's. Briggs' groves. teaches the new dog tricks. 
work is an exampi~ -ofminimalism, a recent movement in r·eaction toWhen the first Darby was very young, in his first Oc­Both Darbys, as far as I am concerned, have been Our the inaccessible, intellectual music of the post-war avant garde.
tober oflife, I plunged him into a pile offallen leaves Lady's dogs. Wherever I go, now or later, I'm sure they Briggs will be joined byJefferyJacobs, associate music professor atthat covered him from the keester to muzzle; it seemed will want to go with me. I have enough faith for the Saint Mary's. The program will also indude selections by Oliver Mes­like a reasonable equivalent to the RiverJordan. I three ofus. You wouldn't want the responsibility ofa siaen, Morton Feldman, Joseph Schwanter and Igor Stravinsky.
prayed that he would be befriended by dryads, fauns, family-even ifthey're justanimals that get into mis­....,_ Omitry Paperno, prize '_'::inlierin the Fifth International Chopinwood nymphs, and the natural forces in the great com­chief, if you didn't have hope that they could travel on 
competitkm,..wi.ll.peifot'Iri piano works of Beethoven, Grieg and
munion ofMother Nature. I also placed him under the the ticket you are using. 
RachmaninoffSunday, October 17, at 4 p.m. in Annenbergprotection of Proteus and Triton, though it was doubt­I still wish I could find Darby II at his worship under Auditorium. The University Artist Series is sponsoring Paperno'sful he would ever visit the Peloponnesus. As a stranger the October trees, close to the heart ofwhatever truth visit. Admission is $2, while students with I D's will be admitted free.
to the "pagan suckled in a creed outworn," I did the best he knows. It would be tasteless to tell him to bark once, I could with an unfamiliar liturgy. ifhe lovesJesus. The tree steeped in shadows is one he 
•ARTWhen Darby II came, I neglected his religious initia­will never have to find. He needs to follow the lights The exhibition, "The Golden Age of Dutch Art: The Dreesmanntion, and he shows no sign ofbeing the beneficiary ofan that are given to him. I wouldn't want Darby O'Gill II Collection" willbe opening on Sunday, October I 7, at the Sniteapostolic succession in nat t ural faith, though he has barking up the wrong tree. 

Museum ofArt. This show is one ofthe cultural exchanges taking place all over the USA and Holland in celebration ofthe bicentennial ofrelations between the Netherlands and the United States. Dutch collector, Dr. A.C.R. Dreesmann has permitted the Snite Museum to borrow works by such greats as Rembrandt, van Goyen, Ruisael,
O'Toole in FAVORITE YEAR 
Maes and Fabritius. The exhibition will be located in the Print, Drawing and Photography Gallery on the second floor. 
•MOVIES

M
y Favorite Year represents usual dissipations while Benjy inef­viewers. Swann's reaction is The Friday Night Film Series will be featuring another film by
the directorial debut of fectually urges restraint. vintage O'Toole, and worth the French director, Eric Rohmer. Rohmer begins a new series with The
Richard Benjamin, a B-movie actor The role ofAlan Swann seems price ofadmission in itself. Aviator's Wife. An offbeat and comic detective story, it traces a
known for his appearance in such perfectly tailored for Peter For a long time Peter O'Toole jealous young student and his longing for an independent older
gems as Westworld,Love atFirst O'Toole. Indeed at times the film has remained a neglected talent, an woman. Shown in Annenberg Auditorium at 7:30p.m., admission is
Bite, and Scavenger Hunt. From a seems semi-autobiographical, as odd character outside the British $2.
formal and/or stylistic viewpoint, when Swann describes his ethnic acting tradition ofGielgud, Olivier, The Engineering Auditorium will again be crowded tonight as
Mr. Benjamin's inaugural effort Richardson, et. al. In My Favori_te Casablanca finishs its annual run here on campus. One of the best
suggests that he should stick to ac­Year his sensitive portrayal ofthe loved movies ofall times, especially of Notre Dame students, it
ting. The major problem withMy swashbuckling Swann ironically 
The performance by 
features Humphrey Bogart and Ingrid Bergman in their stellar per­
Favorite Year is the made-for-recalls the mistaken stereotypes applied to O'Toole himself. At the 
formances in the Morocan desert. Showtimes are 7, 9 and 11 p.m. Be forewarned. The lines form very early. (They have been known to be
conclusiof! of this film one yearns
Pattick mulligan O'Toole makes this an 
longer than lines for The Grad_uate.) Admission is S I. role -as Lear, for instance, or per­to see O'Toole in a serious stage 
•NAXZ

haps as James Tyrone inlong
movie review entertaining and The Nazz winds up its pre-break shows tonight and tomorrow
Day'sjourney Into Night. 
night. Opening the weekend will be the country sounds of Bobtelevision feel about it; one gets Some credit should be given to Marovich and Mary Beth Hocks who will be onstage from 9 to 10the impression that in transferring 
worthwhile night out... the supporting cast -newcomer p.m. Following them will be the group Par Three, featuring the 
this film from the big screen to the 

Linn-Baker's performance is ap­talents ofTim Keyes, Scatter O'Grady and J.P. Keyes. These three small screen its visual quality propriately understated;JessiC4 perform mostly their own compositions with a few selections bybackground, military service, andwould not be altered significantly. 
Harper as Benjy's girlfriend makes The Police. They will take the stage at 10:30 and will play until theyfirst appearance in the movies.
Moreover, the texture and atmos­the most ofan undemanding role; can't play anymore. Tomorrow night the mellow sounds ofSteve

There are even clips oflordjimphere here resemble the unctuous 
Lainie Kazan hams it up as the typi­Wimmer from 9 to 10:30 p.m. will sooth anyone's soul. From 10:30
thrown in -part ofa "Swann
nostalgia ofT.V.'sHappy Days 

caljewish mother. Again, though, p.m on, anyone that wishes to display their talent will have that op­retrospective" given in a T.V.
rather than the visceral elegy of O'Toole's charismatic presence portunity. The stage will be open, so take a deep breath and showoff!

screening room. For all that, 
George Lucas' American Grafitti. 

consigns the other actors to sub­
O'Toole's performance does not
The single redeeming quality of •CHAUTAUQUA
servience; "Alan Swann" so
satirize his own film career; rather
My Favorite Year -and one that Tonight at 9:30p.m., The Wandells will take the stage in Chautau­
dominates the movie that those
it is a genuine, warm-hearted
makes the film worth seeing qua. The Wandells are a three piece band which originated in the
around him fade into the back-
tribute to the acting profession it-
despite its flaws -is the terrific Midwest and has moved to the East Coast. They play original music
ground whenever he appears on
self. Anyone who has seen ·
performance turned in by Peter as well as a balance ofcover music done in their own style. They
screen.

Lawrence ofArabia, Becket,Man
O'Toole in the lead role. have a tremendous local backing, and have played at various hall ofLaMancha, evenMurpby's War To summarize, there isn't much 
dances and local bars. They blend their music in with a spectacular O'Toole plays Alan Swann, an Er-can appreciate Peter O'Toole's to say about the camera work, "hi-aim" show. rol Flynn-type preparing for his special quirkiness, his inimitable editing, lighting, or set design in television debut on the "Cavalcade brand of neurotic elegance, a this film. Home movies have been •MISCELLANEOUS ofComedy." Benjy Stone (Mark vibrancy in the face ofdesolation more innovative frQ¥J a technical On Wednesday, November 3, The Charlie Daniels Band will Linn-Baker), a young screenwriter and hopelessness. There's a mar-standpoint. The pq~rmance by invade the Morris Civic Auditorium with its traveling show. Riding on the show, is assigned the un-velous scene in My Favorite Year Peter O'Toole, howqver, makes on the popularity wave ofsuch favorites as Devil Went Down to enviable task of"babysitting" the in which Benjy informs Swann -this an entertaining and Georgia, Charlie Daniels and company promise an evening of rakish Swann. The predictable five minutes before showtime -worthwhile night out. My Favorite sparked energy. Tickets for this concert can be purchased at River , comic situations ensue, with the that Alan will be appearing on live Year gets the nod on his account City Records en U.S. 31 for SI2.75. All seats are reserved. 
• 
"L..''-Swann;~the-.-·---... '"'-" • • ___ ----'"----:"·-·"·--·~-------·--···oo":·-.---~~~--~---~~,.----"""--'·~-,..,~-~-·
1 -.. tcleyi.sionb.clore_tw.entrwillion_,_~_al.oo,e. ------~·~-·------~--~----.--_
-• 



~------------------~-------~--~-----------~-~-~----~--~--~ 
------.. 
-~--· 
The Observer Friday, October 15, 1982 -page 10 

PRICES GOOD THRU SATURDAY, OCTOBER 16 
You're Wasting Your Money_ Buying Anywhere Eisel 




THIS BUD'S FORYOUI 


ACASE 

I I! I .7'} 'I)(.;, )~
cY'111nuw 'I -7~ t.-, ••••• 
._., ...... c·~·.~ ., ....,.
.............. 
Limit 6 Cases Per Customer, Please 
6-12 oz. BOTILES

LABATT'S 

BEER AND ALE ----------­
LORD 

KAMCHATKA CLAN MACGREGORCALVERT
CALVERT OR CALVERT 

, VODKA SCOTCH
GIN 
EXTRA 

799 999
8
99
9
99 
1 .75 
1.75

1.75
1.75 

LITER LITERLITERLITER 
J.ROGET
CARLO ROSSI 

GALLO PREMIUM 
CHRISTIAN BROTHERS

I 
CANEI 
SPUMANTEWINES 

WINES 
WINES
i 

WINES ..:~:, 299 

3 9~

:J;;··· ~::.-z '1.5

49~, 
1 9~0Ml 
LITER 
• 2~~Ml 
LITER 
MR. &MRS. T. 

A WORLD OF WINE Ill 
SUNGLO

BLOODY Presented by Kings Cellar for the benefit of the
MARY c 
Muscular Dystrophy Association 
POP 99 
COLA, ORANGE, ROOT

MIX Thursday, Nov. 11 5-9:30 p.m. 
BEER, LEMON LIME, CASE OF
ct tho Notre Dame ACC 
GRAPE, CHERRY, 24 CANS Wine and Cboeso SS Donation • Watch for Details 
NOW 
STRAWBERR't, PUNCH 

WE WILL BEAT GROCERY AND DRUG STORE ADVERTISED HIGH PRICES! 
.. 


The Observer Friday, October 15, 1982-page 12 
CALL TODAY FOR 
GUARANTEED RESERVATIONS 
Clip and save this schedule for easy travel planning! To O'Hare FromO'Hare 
LEAVE NOTRE DAME BUS SHELTER  ARRIVE O'HARE  LEAVE O'HARE  ARRIVE NOTRE DAME BUS SHELTER  
4:30a.m.  7:15a.m.  8:30a.m.  11:00a.m.  
5:30 a.lll.  8:15a.m.  10:30 a.m.  1:00 p.m. 
7:30a.m.  10:15 a.lll.  12:30 p.m.  3:00pm. 
9:30a.m.  12:15 p.m.  2:30p.m.  5:00p.m. 
11:30 a.m.  2:15p.m.  4:30p.m.  7:00p.m. 
1:30p.m.  4:15p.m.  6:30p.m.  9 00 p.m. 
3:30p.m.  6:15p.m.  8:30p.m.  11:00 p.m. 
5:30p.m.  8:15p.m.  11:00 p.m  1:30 a.m.  

TIMES EFFECTIVE THROUGH ncr. 30, 1982. CALL FOR CDMPLffi UST OF PICKUP POINTS AND TIMES. 
FOR RESERVATIONS 
(219) 255-J068 
OR CALL YOUR 
TRAVEL AGENT. 


.PUZZELL 
433 N. Hill 
HOMEMADEP(z.zA 
12"-$4.95 
16"-$6.50 

Any Topping Available· (each add. item. 70, .90J 
St.Louis 1, Milwaukee 1 
World Series continues tonight 
MILWAUKEE (AP) -Whitey Herzog, manager ofthe St. Louis Car­dinals, stood along the third base 
line  at  wind-swept  Milwaukee  
County  Stadium  on  yesterday,  
feeling like a lucky man.  

In the first two games of the 1982 World Series at St. Louis, the Car­dinals had won one, and lost one. 
"I have to be pleased with a split, though, in view of the fact that our starting pitching was not doing that well, and we haven't had any hits from our No. 3 or 4 hitters." 
The Cardinals held a brief workout early yesterday afternoon at Milwaukee, where temperatures were in the low 50s with a strong wind. Milwaukee Manager Harvey Kuenn gave the Brewers the day off 
Game Three of the Series was scheduled for tonight (7:30 p.m. CDT), with Joaquin Andujar of St. Louis pitching against Pete Vuck­ovich of Milwaukee. 
The Brewers won the opener 10-0 as Cards right-hander Bob Forsch failed in his starting role, giving up four earned runs on 10 hits in 5 2-3 innings. On Wednesday night, the Cards won 5-4 in the eighth inning, long after starter John Stuper had left. Stuper lasted into the fifth in­ning, giving up four runs on six hits. 
During those two games, Keith Hernandez, the Cardinals' No. 3 hit­ter, and cleanup man George Hendrick both were 0-for-7 with a walk apiece. 
'S DELl 
232-2512 

SANDWICHES -.Italian Beef -Prosciutinni -Italian Hero( Sub) 
-Homemade 
STUDENTSPECIAL 20o/o OFF!! Meatball HEARTY PARTY SANDWICH-6 FOOT CROWD PLEASER 
"Party Trays to order We take orders for delivery untiiB pm.· Open 9to9(closed Sunday) 

CORBY'S 
~tte"\'·o" FRI JR Class uHappy Hour" 4-7 
Draft Beer 2/$1.00 
9:00-HBioody Mary Party" 11:00­
12:30 -Pre-Game nwarmups" 
Shots$1.00 1:30-NO vs Arizona 
4:30 ·Outdoor BBQ Sandwiches -Ribs -Polish Sausage 
9:00 ·? VICTORY CELEBRATION 
GoIrish Beat Wildcats 
Herzog was relying on Andujar to at one point this season." put a stop to St. Louis' pitching woes. The right-handed Vuckovich was Andujar, acquired from Houston for Kuenn's ace this season with an 18-6 Tony Scott in June 1981, was the record. Vuckovich, a former Car­Cards' ace this season with a record dinal, was 14-4 last season for Mil­of 15-10 and an ERA of 2.47. The waukee, and over the past two years right-hander was the winner in the has the best winning percenuge in final game of St. Louis' three-game baseball, . 762. sweep of Atlanta in the National League Championship Series, yield-Vuckovich, who came to Mil­ing six hits and two runs in 62-3 in· waukee in the same trade that also nings. sent Rollie Fingers and TedSimmons 
"Andujar had 10 starts where we from St. Louis to the BreweN, made scored two runs or less, and he two appearances in Milwaukee's didn't get any decision out of any of five-game victory over California in them," Herzog said. "And that ain't the American League playoffs. He bad. was a 4-2 loser in Game Two at 
"Our ballclub alone is probably Anaheim, although he pitched a six­the reason he won't get any con-· hitter, and he got no decision after sideration (for the Cy Young working 6 1·3 innings in Mil· Award)," Herzog said. "We didn't waukee's pennant-clinching 4-3 vic­score runs. He could have been 12-3 tory in Game Five. 
Sports Brie/§ 
By The Ohserl'er and The Assodated Pn•ss 
The Boxing Club is having weigh-ins and physic~ tomorrow for all boxers who have participated in the novice program. This is in preparation for the club's annual novice tourna­ment. The first round of the tourney is set for Monday, Oct. 18 and the championship bouts will be held Wednesday, Oct. 20. -The Observer 
Coach Digger Phelps will be holding tryouts for walk-on hopefuls this Sunday evening at 7 in the ACC Pit. All Bookstore behemoths and interhaJl stars are sought as Digger once again shoots for an NCAA tourney bid. -The Observer 
Stepan Centercourtsare now available to halls and groups. Reservations for the Nov. I to April 8 period must be made by tomorrow. Reservation forms are available at the Student Ac­tivities Office in the LaFo[tupe Student Center. -The Observer 
' 1 ' ; ' . 
Anne Bouton and Mary Ann Violapaced 
the Belles with their outstanding setting, as Saint Mary's split a tri­angular meet with Anderson and Bethel. The Belles lost to Anderson 15-9 and 15-12, and defeated home-team Bethel 15-10 and 15-12. This extends the Belles record to 7 -6-l. The Belles will be at the Manchester Tourney tommorow. -The Observer 
The ND women's volleyball teamswept a 
triangular match yesterday at Chicago State. They beat the hosts, 15-4, 15-11 and then Olivet Nazerene 15-6, 15-3. Their next match is against Saint Mary's Wednesday at Angela. -The Observer 
Saint Mary's basketball team will continue 
tryouts today from 6 to 8 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. They 
will also be held tomorrow morning from 9 to 11. For more informa­
tion, call Tim Dillon at 284-5548. -The Observer 
appearing •······THe Wandells at ChautaJgua 
-La Fortune Ballroom 
s1ou Admission 9JV .. 1zm Friday Ott. 1 5 
Sweetest Day & GRE's SQt.,Oct. 16 
one sw~etheott rose & .....,........ ~._-r &baby's breath &free ONLY Sl Sign up in dining hall during Wed. dinner or dial m-U-rn -5 
The Observer Friday, October 15, 1982 -page 11 
The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4 30 p m. However. classifieds to appear in the next issue must be recetved by 3 p.m. the business day pnor to tnsertton. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
etther 1n person or through the mail.
Classifieds 
NOTICES I WORD PROCeSSING SYSTEM'$2995 64K Microcomputer,letler quality printer, word processing soflwate, CP/M, Basic. cau2n-n20 Surplus jeeps, cars and ·;,:~s available. Many sell for under $200. Call 312-742­1143, ext. 7316 for information on how to purchase. TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 COLORADO FOR BREAK!! PLEASE  Lost; Black and while pearl rong some­where in the vicinity of Madeleva and the science buildin on SMC campus. Very valuable and has sentimental worth. II found PLEASE call Lorrie at 5484. FOR RENT Nice furnished house 2 blocks to N.D 277-3604 or 288-0955. Student Housong -Clean -Safe. $100/mo. 291-1405.  Need RIDE to DARTMOUTH for break!! Call Patti x 1839 Need one student ticket for ih~ Ariz~~~ game. Call Patti x1839 sRiA'N 1i69 RtDE r:ieE:i:iEi:i To NEAR NEAR WEST PALM BEACH FLORIDA OR MIAMI PLEASE CALL BRIAN 1169 DESPERATELY NEED f:uDEi TO NYC FOR BREAK. WILL SHARE EXPENSES CALL JIM al 8583 ...... NEED RIDE TO BOSTON OCT BRK GREG 234-1673 .... Riders needed to ORLANDO Calf 284·  Urgently Require 1 (one) GA Arizona. Please call Cindy 7711 F~; ~~~~ 2A;;;~~~ i3A' ; l:l~~i ~ii~; •.c~1i Steve at 1170 ARizoNA'Tix NEiio2o; 4 GAs please call Dave 7289 NE:E:i:i 2. oR 4ARizoNA GA. TICKETs CALL MARK 8046 Need six GA"s f~~--~~fh~~i·~-~~j~--~~~·;;,·n·,·. Please call 283-1809. N..;;;;;.~i~ GA~ i~~ ;;;;;;~~~ 9~;;,~ F~; ~~: lhusiaslic alumni! Please call 283-1809. Thank you!  SUMMER PROGRAMS -LONDON (MAY 17-JUNE 16) ROME (JUNE 13 -JULY 12), COURSES IN ART, BUSI­NESS, EDUCATION, HISTORY ITAUAN, MUSIC & PHILOSOPHY. 1..: FO. MEETING ON OCT. 18, 7 P.M. (232 MOREAU -SMC). CALL PROF. A.R. BLACK 4460 OR 272·3726. N;;j'~';id;;'j;;';jth;'~;;;:j;;;;;:~·;;;;·:;;: My (right ofl Rt. 80) or the Allentown, P•. •rw• lor October brw81c. Can ...,. Wad-y, Oct. 20. C.ll Mike, 2n­4300. r;;~:L~;.; .. &;;,i~l~ ..i~olg~t~; .. f~; .. A;i~~~~ game on Green Field. All mem· bers and friends welcome. Look for the PLS BAN­ II ALL ND-SMC girls:~sp. those in Rm.( )Bf'.i1 is Mr. BESEISO'S birthday. "if you say so" BESEISO will be available for WHATEVER you desire in D line during ~JIIday. ........~.~.: .:·.!.. :":~.'!JU.Ii.• a. I .. .,... THE BREWERS SU-THE SIG'ONE;: N~~~~: l:l~;~i~~·~ ~~~~~ y;,~r ~;d~; No loves you!! See you soon... Your ·smashing· ne1ce PAR THREE TONIGHT AT THE NAZZ 10:00 PM  
HELP TWO W1LO DOMERS REACH THE ROCKIES --NEED A ONE-WAY RIDE TO ANY PART OF CO. WILL SHARE USUAL, AND CAN BRING BACK RIDERS.CALL LORI at 7801 OR DIANA at 6983. DESPERATE!!!!! ooNT FORGET ·:ro HAND IN .. vouR URBAN PLUNGE APPLICATION BY 3:00PM TODAY .............................. Experienced Typist: WILL DO TYPiNG -REASONABLE RATES. Call287·5162. JOB BANK FOREVER UVtHG PRODUCTS Contact: _Roger Thorn ­362-7276 Position available: Distributor CIRCLE LUMBER Contact Craig Taelman-287-5971 ATHLETIC ANNEX Contact Tom Lower -272-7565 Contact -Marl< T obclski ­291-6798 Positions available: part time sales WYGANT FLORAL COMPANY Contact Dorothy DeClerck -232-3354 Positions available: driver and clerk UNITED CONSUMERS OF SOUTH BEND Con1IICI Andrew Spite 233-2204 Position avallble: Tele./P R. GENERAL MICROCOMPUTER Contact John Levy-277-4972 Position available: computer program­ming If more informatiOn is needed, call Bob Yoochak or Anne Chapski at 7668 COLLEGE BOWL MEETING -TUES­DAY, 7:00 PM. CCE 202 CAPTAINS AND NEW PLA YEAS WELCOME"AMl'o HI MOM, DAD, AND KATIE:i"HOPE YOU HAVE A GOOD TIME THIS WEEKEND. -NH!j a ride ? Drive a WILSON DRIVEAWAY car home for break. One­way transportation, you pay ONLY gas and tolls (plus a returnable security deposit). Call BOB· 233-6495  Furn. efficiency $100. Also 1 bedroom apartment $175. Call 255-8505. FOR SALE USED BOOKS Bought Sold, Searched. ERASMUS BOOKS. Tues-Sun, 12-6. 1027 E. Wayne. One Block South of Eddy-Jefferson Intersection. Two RusH nx Row is cENTER STAGE. BEST OFFER BOB 3259 TRAVELCHEAPONAMTRAK 0~~.-~~~ coach ticket Niles-Chicago-Denver· Seattle for $70. Must be used by October 31, 1982. Contact Eric at283-8218. WANTED RioE NEEDED To ROC\~EsTER. NY FOR FALL BREAK. WILL SHARE USUAL. WANDA 7770 RIDE NEEDED TO MILWAUKEE FOR BREAK WILL SHARE EXP CHANTAL 7770 NEW YORK NEW YORK NEED RIDE TO NYC for October Break Will share usual PLUS good cookies Call Joann at 6239 OCTOBER BREAK Need a rode for 2 down to the Miami/Ft. Lauderdale area. Will share costs. Please call6965. TWO GIRLS NEED RIDE TO PHILL Y FOR BREAK. WILL SHARE USUAL. CALL CELESTE AFTER 7 x7895  5538 or 284-5000 to leave message. Mic· helle Riders needed to COCOA BEACH, .fLORIDA or points along the way forOc· Iober Break. Cindy 284-5452"AMl'o oR't:..\Ni:io:Rour:iD TRiP': 32 Rv looking lor riders call Mike 1650 TEXAS OR BUST --for fall tJ;~~k rides needed. Leave whenever! x1076 . . . . . . . .... . . . . . ' . . . .' J'lide needed to Lafayette. IN or towards Indianapolis for Oct. break. Call Tom 1396. Need rode to &t. Louos for Oct. break. W/share expenss. Call Mary 233·4598. NEED A RIDE TO SAN FRAN OR LA AREA FOR OCT BREAK CAN LEAVE THURS. 10/21. CALL SEAN 288-2204-tiel.Pi i-iE:I.Ptt NEEo.RtDE r6 MAiNe FOR FALL BREAK. AS ADDED AT­TRACTION I CAN SHOW YOU WHERE SKIP DESJARDIN GREW UP! I WILL TAKE RIDE TO ANYWHERE IN NORTH­ERN NEW ENGLAND CALL DAN AT 4603. WANTED: A RESPONSIBLE DRIVER TO DRIVE A CAR BACK TO NOTRE DAME FROM DENVER. DURING OC· TOBER BREAK NO EXPENSES EX­r.EPT FOR YOUR FUEL COST CALL DAN.1149 WANTED: Rlt;<; FOR THREE PEOPLE (OR ANY COMBINA"f'I'JNS) TO OR NEAR ERIE. PA. , FOR 0<:.-.: RREAK ANYONE GOING ON 1-90 OR · 110? CALL NORA AT CHRIS MUNRO 3643 NEEDS RIDE TO MAINE FOR BREAK AND BACK AF· TEA SHARE EXPENSES. MASS OR NH WILL DO. WASH. D.C./NO. VA Need rode to the aforementioned for October break Will  1 NEED PITT:PENN sT GAs $s$ CALL BRENDAN 3207 NeeD .AiliZciNA GA r1xS:·P£Te. 2:12­1466 Need 1 Arizona Stu Tick~j cail B;~~~ s:JiS NEEO 4:6 NAVY GA;SI CALi STEVE 2:.-5713 N~~;; 2GA s ;~; A;,~~~~ ~~i, Mtk~ 7980.. N~~;; 2A~i~~~~·GA~.~.n ;;~~ $2sp~;,i~. Joe3530 i.i~~ ~i 2·RusH·i;~k~~~:·, ; /6i82. i4it; row. Call Todd at 8762. ............................... ........ ARIZONA Student Tockel For Sale $35.00 or Best Offer can J.B. at1858. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ . . HELP $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED 2 ARIZONA G.A. s. ANNE 283-6794 NEED ARIZONA GA TICKETS $$$ CALL MIKE AT 1475. NEED TWO G.A.s FOR ARIZONA-CALL JIM AT 282-1527 $$DESPERATELY NEED PENN STATE GAS! CALL JOHN AT 1751.$$ I NEE.i:i'2 GAS OR STUDENT TIX FOR ARIZ. PLEASE CALL TRACY x8009 ~bRSALE 2ARIZONAGASSTAN 1841 3-5 1-.,•. HELP! I NEt.C, PENN STATE GA'S (2) AND STUDENT TIX (Z,..PLEASE HELP FOREIGN RELATIVES Fli>J;;T VISIT TO USA & NO BE MEMORABLE ! CAL:~ 1674$$  NER BUFFALO CLUB: ALL MEMBERS AND THEIR FAMILIES ARE INVITED TO AT­TEND A TAILGATER IN FARLEY HALL ON SATURDAY AT11 :00 A.M.; ROAST BEEF ON WECK WIUL BE SERVED! ,;.~,~~;~····Aii;;~i';··-A;i;~;~· ...................... Are you going to or through tor October break? I need a ride. so please take me with you. Call Jeb at 8630. Thank you. Atl8nhl... Atlanta ... Atlanta Welcome to South Band, M;;T;~~ ... But on your return trip to Tucson. please take RONNIE back with you. Thank you. HAPPY HALLOWEEN FROM 218 GRACE HALL ································································ Halloween at N.D. this year is OCTOBER 15 Did you know that Ted Dore has on the lip of hos bog nose? Mr Rob Cymbalok, Oh Yes, but you woll come up lor Penn Stale. I want to sogn the wall Postcards?!? Who's koddong whti? Plastoc' on 925 Grace HALLOWEEN PART rl 1YES FRIDAY NIG" YES Do you """ ... coatume to .,,..r·?l?l .,.~o. '(C'• ·Judt onng your B1rthda ysu1t if you don't have a costume)  PAR THREE TONIGHT AT THE NAZZ 10:00 PM T 1. i<c&Fio.. T;;;~ ~iii ~·~·~y;;;~ii~ year!!! 3 and going strong!! ML Beware of the lambchop! r;;.;;;;.;~;;;~?·P~.~··;;;;;~t;~?TiiE.sot<o Dear T D., How come you do not h~id down the front of the class anymore? Is it because I'm nollhe Most Blessed?? siNK THE u s N soKot ····MusicLo\/E:Fis o;;.>:LL sf.o'FiTs · · CHECK OUT PAR THREE TONIGHT AT THE NAZZ -10:00 PM THE GREATEST PHILOSOPHICAL QUESTION IN THE WORLD WILL BE ANSWERED DURING THE INTERMISSION, AND YOUR GRANDMOTHER'S SECRETS MAY BE EXPOSED! DON'T MISS THESE BOYS FROM TUSKOGEE, NET­HERLANDS! Colleen, I hear your room ·s got 'personality Your secret admirer HELPif Need2 StudPn' -·"-'"PENNSTATETix for my little br·~rher Can Kevon 8817 .o;;;.;rlTED:LOGAN VOLUNTEERS Satur· day, Oct. 16. Go to the game with the kids and have a good tome. Be at the Center at !O:OOam. THANKS. Fosh, Katoe, MISS H.C., & Katoe, RM 228 wouldn't be the same without you. Hang 1n there guys. NY 1s coming soon!! M.  
NEED RIDE TO NORTH CAROLINA FOR BREAK. SHARE GAS, CALL CHAPIN AT 1522 ANYTIME. "Par Three" Tonight at The Nazz !O:OOpm  RIDERS wanted on 1-80 east 1~ ~~~~~al PA (exit 31 or near). Call Greg at 1758 RIDE NEEDED FOR TWO TO BOSTON FOR OCT. BREAK CALL ME. STEVE. AT RIDE NEEDED FOR TWO TO BOS­TON FOR OCT BREAK. CALL ME.  share the usual. Call John al1817 TICKETS  WILL TRADE 2 ARIZONA GAS FOR 2 PENN STATE GAS OR STUD TIX CALL 2156 . .................... .. Need Penn Slate Ga·s. Win pay cold hard cash. 8539  BEWARE OF GENERIC BEER SIX­PACKS PAR THREE TONIGHT AT THE NAZZ 10:00 PM  And thus il has been proclaimed: OPEN SEASON! remember. 4360.  
STEVE AT 234-9580.  NEED 2 GA's FOR ARIZ. DAVE 277­ 
LOST/FOUND  NEED RIDE TO ST. LOUIS FOR OC­TOBER BREAK. CALL AMY AT 8040 WILL HELP PAY FOR GAS·~. RIDERS;: TO CHAMPAIGN, fl. ON OCT 21 & BACK OCT 31 COLLEEN 7842  WILL PAY BIG MONEY FOR 4 PENN STATE GA TIX. CALL 312-565-59511 COLLECT AND ASK FOR STEVE LONGLEY. !I!I!NEED STLjDENT OR GA'S FOR ARIZONA!!!!!  0955 NEED4GAS FOR PENN STATE GAME CALL TRACEY 5201 (SMC) FOR SALE: 2 GAS TO ARKANSAS GAME..LISA...277-3196  PAR THREE IS SCOTT O'GRADY GUITARS,CONCH.BASS TIM KEYES -KEYBOARDS. GLOCKENSPIEL, PER· CUSS ION J P (AMATEUR ANGULAR) KEYES · THINGS AND BASS SEE THEM IN THE FLESH TONIGHT AT THE  THE TANMASTERS WOULD LIKE TO THANK OUR LITTLE MUD-WRESTLER, NINA. FOR THE DELICIOUS MEAL SHE PREPARED FOR USI WE WOULD ALSO LIKE TO ANNOUNCE OUR FALL MEMBERSHIP DRIVE. THERE ARE A LIMITED NUMBER OF POSITIONS FOR  
ORANGE STONE CALL GINA 6553  CALL  GINA  6553  PURDUE IS CALLING. NEED RIDE TO P U, W LAFAYETTE AREA FOR  !!I!!CALL ALEX AT 6931 !!!!!  NEED: FOUR GA'S FOR THE ARIZONA GAME. CALL MAUREEN SMC 5506.  NAZZ -10:00 PM  LADIES AVAILABLE, SO IF YOU FEEL YOU MAY QUALIFY, CONTACT ONE  
BREAK  USUAL  ARRANGE.  SOUND  OF THE TANMASTERS ASAP! REMEM·  
To whomever pocked up my CORDUROY JACKET oulsode the south donning hall on Froday, Why do you you want il? It's too old and beat-up for any respectable per­son to wear bull WANT IT BACK!!! If you have 1t for any reason it has my name in it, so call AI at 3423~~.  GREAT. CALL BILL, 1434 GOING TO CENTRAL JERSEY? 2 OF US NEED A RIDE THERE FOR BREAK CALL DON AT x1630  NEED 6 ARIZ. GAS-DOUG at 166 NEED ANY KIND QF PENN STATE rix CALL MEG· 7628 \/ol.uP'Tuous LITTLE stsTER ;,~s never seen an N.D. game! Her LAST and ONLY chance os PENN ST She and her  HEY NOTRE DAME, Parents and fnends commg for Arozona· need 2 or 4 GA's. Please call M oke y 3301 Need many GAs lor Arozona Can Dave 3673 or 291·2853 or Chop 4-4428  ROBBIE LOVES WSND TO LISTEN TO WSND AM 640 'THE ROCK TOWER Now formong is the Anti-New Wa¥8rs Club Sogn up at the New Wavers Party this Weekend  BER, AS WINTER APPROACHES THE TANMASTERS WILL HELP KEEP YOU WARM. SO DONT BE LEFT OUT IN THE COLD! THE TANMASTERS & BOB LOBSTER  
LOST: Hewlett-Packard calculator on black leather-like pouch. It was left in either 214 Math/computer or the Audotoroum in Cushong. If you know any­thing abcul it, please call John Kilcran at 8534 Whoever "FOUND.. my I D. and football fix Saturday for,$10, please return them as stated 1n our verbal contract. K. Hew­son. 261 C.C.E. 283-7443 LOST· 1 RICOH MEN'S WRIST WATCH. PLEASE RETURN. REWARD CALL JOE 1181!8Wo  Need ride to Sioux Falls, SD or area. II you are goong to or through this area call Malt x 1025. Will share usual Need rode to Nashville, TN for Oct. Break Can leave Wed. 10/20 Also need rode back to ND from N. New Jersey on 10/31 II you can help with either PLEASE call Janet at4571_ Wtll share usual RIDE needed to BOSTON for ociober break. Wtll share drivmg and expenses Call STEVE at 277·8785, afternoons or evemngs.  entourage need 2 GAs and 3 stud tox Were lalkong BIG$$ here!! Joe: 1652 East coast parents need Penn St GA s of you can help call Donna at 5472 SMC P.S. I also need Anzona stud fix, Help! NEED PENN ST GAs BIG TIME! $$$ CALL 1627 I NEED 2 GA·s for Arozona Please call Teresa at 7130. DESPERATELY NEED PENN TIX, BOTH GA & STUDENT. CALL SUE AT  FOR SALE 1 ARIZONA STUTICKET$1S 288-8402 I have two Anzona GAs to trade for two Penn GAs. CALL Anne at 8070 I have sox 7th-row RUSH ttx lor sale Can Maggoe, 284-434&. Arozona stu. toe lor salec SMC 4292 Need 2 or 3 Penn St GAs Can Chros SMC 5425  On their Face IOWA IOWA IOWA The newly formed ND/SMC IOWA CLUB woll hold ols ontro­ducrory happy hour thos Froday on the Zahm party room (basement) between 4 and 6 PM Be sure to come and suppoct your new organ1zat1on and meet some fellow Haw­keyes. Any questoons call John 8982 Jak· ko 6845 or Tom 1574 NEED RIDE TO ST LOUIS FOR OCTOBER BREAK WILL SHARE  SMC-PARTY WITH THE WILD MEN AT ST. JOE'S HALL THURS. 10-21 9:00-? How can I get this Cat to purr? Oh my! It is JUStice when the one she blew you oft for blows her off A "mean" Domer ASSOCIATE WITH US HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES, 1-2 YR: POSTGRAD SERVICE PROGRAM WITH SIMPLE CHRISTIAN LIFESTYLE  
PLEASE HELP! need rode toWASH,DC  283·7389  USUAL CALL SUSAN AT 284-5526  IN USA AND CHILE. CHILE DEADLINE  
LOST: Notre Dame class rong at the Miamo Pep Rally. Please return ol! My father will kill me of I show up at home wolhout ot. Call  for Oct break x2244  Wolf help woth usual Maura  NEED 4 GA TIX TO PENN ST. $$$CALL JIM 233-2386  PERSONALS  3 DOWN-----53 NEXT????????  TO  GO  WHOS  NOV. 4. CALL MARY ANN ROEMER 5293.  
Tom. 8602. REWARD Found: one necklace after Alumno party. Call Man 1025 Found: Calculator on Cushing on Wed Oct 6 Call 176610 odentofy and claom. LOST: Nokon camera on black case on Froday -on area of the Dome Call 284­5313-Reward! LOST T.l PROGRAMABLE CAL· CULATOR THURS MATH BUILDING AFTER STATS TEST CALL ROB 6827 PLEASE" LOST: Gold watch. made on USSR, brown leather oand, near Howard. PHONE·  Need nde to or near San Antonio, TX for break W/share usual. Call Steve at 1777. Need ride to NASHVILLE. TN lor Oct break Can leave early Call 259-77 48 and leave message Need rode to Newark, DE or nearby for break (Pholadelphoa, Baltomore are OK) Doane2114 NEED 2 RIDES TO VERMONT OR AREA FOR OCT BREAK CALL RICH 1625 NEED RIDERS NEEDED: GOING SOUTH THROUGH INDIANAPOLIS, LOUIS­VILLE, NASHVILLE, AND ATLANTA.,  DESPARATE. Need 2 ARIZONA GA's. Please call Michele, 3793. Thanks. wEi..NE.Eio..AfiizoNA'.&"rE'N·N·s:r·'GA'~· CALL DON OR DAVE AT 1850 HELP I NEED ARIZ GAs CALL ROB 6827 DESPERATELY NEED 3 GAS FOR ARIZONA: COULD MEAN EMPLOYENT CALL STEVE AT 232·0550 Wanted Desperately! T1x tor the ·penn St game wolf pay Bux Deluxe Matt 277­4573. I NEED 2 GAs FOR ARIZONA PLEASE  MARYII HAPPY 19th BIRTHDAY!! We hope you have the wondertuny happy day that you deserve! Cons1denng you re spendong 11 w1th us thafs guaranteed!I We ve loved havmg you as our roommate--wild, crazy, and tun--so JUSt remember that turnmg a year older 1s no reason to start act1ng that way!! We only travel th1s road but once, so have a great day both today on your borthday and every  ATTENTION ST. MARY'S STUDENTS · ST JOSEPH HALL · A SCENIC GRADUATE RESIDENCE FOR 70 LONELY MEN ABOUT TO EMBARK ON VERY LUCRATIVE CAREERS· NEEDS YOU!' SEND YOUR PICTURES ALONG WITH YOUR NAME AND NUMBERS C/0 CAMPUS MAIL TO BOX 227 ST JOSEPH HALL NO RESUMES. PLEASE D.L S Glad you came. W1sh you could stay, Don't forget I love you on every way Thanks for makong my tole so specoal I Love you. A.J.F  BETHY·Thanx TONS!You re a ieal sweetle!Tons of love·LJs Patto,Jiii,&Beth-Here s to a WILD PE SYR•Let s hope our dates aren t TOTAL !Mone will probably be LORD,GOD,KING ·I'M SURE'J-we HAVE to stock together at HC SYR­octupses are no fun !Thanx for puttong up woth my soap opera-1 love y'all TONS­Losa(PREPHEAD)P S Is of proper to let your date fondle your noseha1rs on a f1rst date? BOSTON CLUB VICTORY PARTY iM: MEDIATELY followong the ARIZONA Game Look for MASS. flag at Campus Voew across from pool. ALL YOU CAN DRINK AS USUAL Help make thos three  
3558  LEAVING  OCTOBER  22  AFTER  CALL CAROLYN AT 8067  day atter  successful bashes in a row!!  
LOST. Oval St. Chroslopher s medal. one to one & one half large. between Lewts Hall and the Huddle or the Huddle and the  LUNCH CALL ALAN AT 1686 MESSAGE.  LEAVE  Need Arozona GAs call1741 I NEED MUCHO ARIZONA  TIX.  JOE  HAPPY 19th BIRTHDAY II Londa, Sando. and Megan  Love,  Stephen Thanks for feeding the ducks woth me Tuesday noght  BOSTON CLUB VICTC)RY PARTY SATURDAY ACROSS FROM CAMPUS VIEW POOL LOOK FOR MASS FLAG  
Ltbrary It tS made of Stiver Ca11 Kevm 1592 of found. Reward of found Lost. Gold watcn made on USSR. woth brown ;eather band. near Ho~ard  Need rode to MILWAUKEE. Fro Oct 22-­can leave anyt1me af1er 11 a rr STOP wdl share tJSual expenses call Shell'! 289­9304  1154 NEED ARIZONA TIX x1173 Tom Need 2 Arozona GAs Call J1m at 3342.  URBAN PLUNGE · DEADLINE FOR AP· PLICATIONS TODAY AT 3 00 PM BOGART IS BACK'' Pro-Law Socoety  How were we to know they had already flown south? MaybA next spnng, okayI your Ill SIS  BOSTON CLUB FRIENDS AND ALUMNI INVITED TO POST ARIZONA GAME PARTY IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING THE GAME  
pre•en" CASABLANCA. Tnurs && Fn.  GOPHER FAN NEEDS RIDE: lu the TWIN  
LOST NO LETTER JA.CKET  10!12 IN  NEED RIDE to LONG ISLAND to' bredk'  Eng  Auo.  7,9& 11  HERES LOOKI~IG  CITIES to1 October F3rea~<:l W1.:my to pov  
ENG AUD CALL PAT x1981  REWARD  Cal! Jane >1639  Need Anz student nx Cull 1193  ~I VOUP  good$$ Please call Cnuck at 8917  ·  See CL\SSIFIEDS, page 13  

,____________________________________..;..__________________,..___~11:-..--.....--~-::·q.•-----~~-j 
The Observer Friday, October 15, 1982-page 13 

• • • Classifieds 
continued from page 11 
BOSTON ClUB PARTY SATURDAY 
BOSTON CLUB PARTY IMMEDIATELY AFTER THE GAME. ALL NEW ENGLAND STUDENTS AND ALUMNI INVITED LOOK FOR MASS FLAG AT CAMPUS VIEW. 
BOSTON CLUB PARTY IMMEDIATELY AFTER THE GAME-IT WILL LAST UNTIL THE BEER RUNS OUT. 
HAPPY 22ND BIRTHDAY, JOSE LOUIS TEJADA. YOU PERUVIAN JOSE MONSTER 
SOME OF YOU ARE GOING TO MISS IT. uni<Jss you get your act together as members of the Notre Dame Progressive Mualc Society. It is highly critical that you call either Barney Grant at 8489 or Rabbi Snyder at 3479 if you in­tend to attend the first Nuclear Countdown Dancedown at the Knights of Columbus building, starting at 9:30, tonight! If you miss th1s one. the Notre Dame Ide that you have been leading will probably rema1n the same: it IS h1ghly Im­portant that you learn the patty 11st policy WhiCh we must enforce at the K. of C. building. Get on tha phone, jac~. Other­wiN, some ofyou are about to mlaalt. 
Do you remember these great names from the past? 
The Crystals 
The Ronettes 
Martha and the Vandellas 
Jan and Dean 
Peter, Paul, and Mary 
If so (or even 1f not), you can hear these 
acts (and at least t 5 others) on Tim Nee­
ly's Top 20 Time Tunnel, th1s Sunday 
night at 6 pm on WSND-AM 64. as T1m 
goes back to the third week in October. 
t963. 
Thais THE TOP 20 TIME TUNNEL, Suri­day night at6 on WSND AM 641 
TO OUR CRUISE DIRECTOR Paul A1ello-Congrats on your 18th b1rthday.Who would have believed 11? Raise a glass (or can) and come to 37 Pangbo rn and drink to smooth sailing w/h1m-THE CREW (Pete.Bob,Bnan.Nick. Stanimai.Chuck.and Ralph.) 
SENIORS FOR 1983-85, CONSIDER WORK WITH HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES PROGRAM IN CHILE. APPLIC/ITION DEADLINE NOV. 4TH. CALL MARY ANN ROEMER 5293. 

Hey! ··stack John·· Murphy from Oyster Bay, Long Island! ND/SMC welcomes you back-you old domer!!! The campus wouldn·t be the same after the Class of A4 finishes with them!! Enjoy this weekend. Dad!! I'm so happy you·re here!!! 
Love ya 
Kats 

P.S. Now, about off campus next year 
Nan!! The true ··squeeze· has amved!!l Murph 
Are you a fan of Diana Ross? Is Motown the place you want to be? ts transporta­tion leaving you strantled? If so. the Oc­tober break chauffeur has room for two more riders to Detroit city or any place in between. The Ford will be departing Notre Dame Saturday. Interested? Call Tan at 239-5313 and leave a message 
Attention: ND/SMC Students 
Logan Center 
WiII be collecting 
Arizona Football Tickets 
******************************* 
in the Dining Hall 

Please give all unneeded tix 
and make a Logan Child Smile !!! 
***************** 
Dear Karen. Carolyn, Linda, Susan & all my other great friends. Thanks for all your help this past week. I hope I didn't drive ya too crazy! 
Thanx agaml 
Janet 
Dear Santa Claus. 

Thanks for prov1ng that a xxxx IS better than a Barbie doll! By the way: lonely? Need a friend? See you Saturday. 
P.S. please shave-for once!! 
SMC in search of charming DOMER for fun companiOnship. Call Janu 4179 
Hey Bob! Welcome to the ND-SMC community. Not 
only are there girls on campus. butthere·s a whole campus full of them. Enjoy med school. 
Beaches stop 
-============================= 
Announcing 
The Rewes't Location of 'the 

1835 Lincolnway Bast, South Bend Hickory Smoked Bibs 
Deliciously thick Pizza fried Chicken BBBlll! WllfB 
Ifow two locations to serve you: 
18SS Lincoln way East St. Bd. 23 I! Bittersweet South Bend, 288-8240 Granger 277 • 3143 

r.2~1rr~,f,~L 
SZECHUAN • CA/110/IESE-AIIERII:AII 
CHUCK WHITE 
* *
At The Piano Bar 
See Chuck b·er~ Tues. thru Sat. 

8:00 p.m.-1:00 a.m..... Enjoy Life! 
• Dancing• Drinks• Dinger 
• Hospitalijy• ReasonabAf Prices 
Lunch Special $1.99 to $4.25 

Dinner Specials: Seafood Platter $3.95 
Pork Fried B.ice $8.00 
Chicken Ohowmein $8.50 
''The Best Chinese Food }·"CJu 've Ever Had" 
HOURS: OPEN 7 DAYS Mon.-Thur.11:30a.m.-lO:OOp.m. A WEEK ~ri. &Sat.11:30a.m.-11:00p.m. Sun. & Holidays 4 p.m.-9:00p.m. 
130 DIXIE HWY. SOUTH Happy Hour 5-7 P M SOUTH BEND(Roseland) BANQUET ROOMS & Next to Randall'~ ln.• 
Gl'OUPRATES 

AVAILABLE 272-7376 

Corr;>are QUI ~'-• .....s Including Ice. Cups and Don ·t Forget Deposit Charges!!! 
''THE BEER CO· 
Take Eddv St.' South from camou·s-over the bridge-Now count 5 stoplights-Past new police & fire station-Cross R".R. & turn right-YOUHAVEARRIVED!! CornerSampJe &Chapin 287·1067 Early Birds Every Saturday Morning Early Birds SPECIAL PREMIUM TO FIRSTDOZEN NOTRE DAME CUST"MERS 
,.­
~ . .
k---<t ~......---~ ·~ -~~__....~t ~'<i!.t"i .,_;_ r;.; "'i!o '< 

-~----­
The Observer Friday, October 15, 1982 -page 14 



AGOSTINO'S Specializing inhI tie Prime Bib, Seafood, Steaks and 
·, servin~ your favorite cocktails. 
:I ep TAKINGBESEBVATIONS i02 S.. Walnut NOW 
South 11M Take Eddy to Sample, turn right 232-2494 on Walnut. Banquet rooms available with option to create your own menu. Serving dinner at Spm Mon.-Sat. 
NOW OPEN 
Serving Polish Style & Italian 
PIZZA 

C~~~y 272•8030 DELIVERY 
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK 4·00-11 :30 FRtOAY & SATURDAY UNTIL 1:30 A.M. 
10o/o offwithStude-nti.D. ,..O.o. Jiilish ltJrittre
'U~.IL. ~ ~ ,. 1r 

'"Q'/~~0«?'11 . t zzert a 
~8"" ­
18061 SOUTH BEND AVENUE (112 BLOCK WEST OF IRONWOOD ON STATE ROAD 23 
Catch Fighting Irish Fever on Mutual Radio 
Join Tony Roberts and AI Wester Saturday, Ocf6be.r._,16 as the ~Fighting Irish" meet Arizona..~ring the 15t\1 consecutive season of~tional play­by-play broadcasts produee.Q_Qy 
Mutual Sports, radio's leader in sports-~­broadcasting. 
MUTUAL BROADCASTING SYSTEM The Leader in Network Radio Sports f'm 
t 




f 
...Conference 
ment bid and an opportunity at na­tional prominence is more of a reality. 
Of course, there are the obvious questions like "why didn't this hap­pen earlier?" or "what about the women's teams?" Those answers will come in time. 
But, for now, praise is due the ath· letic department for this move, one that can only help in both the short run and in the future. 
It's nice to see them doing some­thing for the "little guys." 
... Strike 
continuedfrom page 16 
The principal characters are. for the union. executive director Ed Garvey, president Gene Upshaw and attorney Joseph Yablonski, and, for the Management Council, executive director Jack Donlan and attorney Sargent Karch. 
Playing supporting roles for management are Vince LombardiJr., assistant executive director of the council; Terry Bledsoe, assistant general manager of the New York Giants; Steve Guttman, secretary treasurer of the New York Jets, and attorney Dennis Curran. 
Supporting union representatives are economic expert Mike Duberstein, attorney Dick Berthel­sen and players Tom Condon of the Kansas City Chiefs, Mark Murphy of the Washington Redskins and Stan White ofthe Detroit Lions. 
Also advising the union is Leonard Linquist, the senior partner in the Minneapolis law t1rm that Garvey worked for prior to coming to the union. 
As the bargaining session moved through its third day, sources said Kagel was positioning both sides to tackle the financial package, the major stumbling block to a settle­ment. 
"He is building momentum, get­ting agreements on a phrase here and a paragraph there, building in them the confidence they can come together on a number ofissues," one source said. 
Confidence that the dispute could be resloved soon, Minnesota wide receiver Ahmad Rashad said yester­day, apparently spurred the Vikings to contact their players in order to bring them together on short notice. 
But an informal survey of other NFL teams turned up no evidence of a league-wide move in that direc­tion, and a union spokesman at the talks said such action would be "premature." Further, a manage­ment spokesman said, "we have not instructed our teams to do so (contact their players)." 
In an agreement forged Tuesday night by Kagel, the owners promised to "maintain the status quo" during the mediation process and not open their training camps, as they had previously threatened to do. 
Kagel kept the parties talking to­gether until nearly 3 a.m. yesterday before both sides retired for in­dividual caucuses and some rest. 
Kagel was expected to con­centrate on peripheral issues during yesterday's talks before turning to the troublesome economic issue today. 
The union has demanded a S1.6­billion, four-year package to include incentive and performance bonuses, a minimum wage scale and the crea­tion of a central fund from which all salaries would be paid. 
Management has offered to guarantee spending $1.6 billion on salaries and benefits over a five-year period. To date, the owners have refused to consider either a wage scale or central fund. 

continuedfrom page 16 
very definite opportunity to go to the NCAA's. We never had a vehicle to get there before. 
"But that's the best part about it: The conference champion goes to the NCAA's, whether they're good, indifferent or bad. It's a super ob­jective to shoot for." 
As for the rest of this year, O'Sullivan sees only good things. "We're definitely in the top four in the conference," he says. "It's not a walkover. There are some strong golfing programs there. 
"But we are good enough to com­pete right now. It couldn't have come at a better time. We can still put it together and maybe go places this year. I'm totally delighted." 
Gallo, as you might well imagine, 
is enthusiastic as well. 
"I'm very, very pleased," he says. "It gives teams something to shoot for. Now we can work hard to make the program good·-it'll probably take a year or so. It's a big plus for the other teams, but l think it'll benefit baseball most." 
The baseball team probably has 
had the most experience against 
MCC teams. Last spring break, the 
squad defeated Oklahoma City, 19· 
7, but were beaten in three straight 
games by Oral Roberts ( 5·2, 2·1 and 
• D112A DUfNER • 
~ CFO.RTwO ~ -1-wrth Salad Bar • 
• .$699 SAVEOVER I 
• $4.00 • 
• Save even mon oo Dinner forFour. • 
• $11.99 • • • Medlul Deep·lllsll Slclllaa. 12" • • llallll·'1'11aed ll8aDd er 10" MOIIIIer • • pizza (J.r elllke ot topp!Dp) • • •zUCna&e-IDW"·On Salad Bars • • DrtW-~....DllllliC •..,_ • 
o. _.,..,...-a--per t111t. C... • 
• be 1118111 wldl UJ .a.CGIIIIIII• a.-t • after. orrw pad tllniiC' OctMe•2ll!IIZ. • 
• Geed al Clmllulll4 8tDn! • Aa.a r.... .PliYenltJ Part 11&11 • 
• 

ZTl· 5300 
1.1Noble1\.om~'iiii~Noble~~·= 

The Best in Aged Steaks 
120 N. Main Street Downtown, Mishawaka 
255-7737 
Lunch 
11:00 A.M. to 2:00P.M. 
Dinner 5:00 P.M.
I 
I 
Closed Sundays
I 
& Holidays
I I I I I I I I I 
J 

13-0 ). So although the conference should aid baseball the most, they still have some improving to do. 
Coaches Joe Piane (track and cross country) and Tom fallon (tennis) don't have as much of a stake in this as the others, but both see some advantages to the new con­ference. 
"We already belong to two other conferences," says Piane. "We're al­ready part of the Central Collegiate Conference and the IC4A. I was shocked initially, but I'm looking forward to it. There are some good teams there -Oral Roberts is very good." 
For Fallon's tennis team, which has to qualify for the NCAA Tourna­ment on the basis of a district tournament involving the Mid American and Big Ten Conferences, the only advantage seems to be the lure of a conference championship. "It's not really a strong conference for tennis," says Fallon, "so it's a little too early to tell its effect on us. Maybe in the long run if the other schools build up their teams, some· thing good can come out ofit." 
Overall, the move to join the con­ference was a superb idea. For too long, these five teams have wan­dered in virtual obscurity with no in· centive but to play out their schedules each year. Now, a tourna­

~' 
.•• 
Any Large Deep-Blab Sleutan.

---------------. 
14" MODS&er or 16" or 20" Band-Tossed Round pizza. 
2 ptaas III&J be purcbued wllh eacb coupoa. CaJJDat be used with any odler CfiiiPOII or dlac:owll otler. 0• eoapea per cuaiOIIJer per Yllll Offer COld tJJroucb October;:]1982. 
6Nd at Cle~elud R4 Store ACJ'088 !ram Olltrersi[J Park MaD Z'17·53GO 
l 
I 
I I I I I I I I I 


obie.'" 
om~s 
PIZZA 
Z17·6300 

................l.~riil·~~-~··1· 
• 
• • 
• 


IheO~rv~================~~===================== 
Weekend-
Friday, October 15, 1982 -page 15 

,-------------------·~
II ********************************** l I Enjoy your lastweekendmcampusbefore break at I 
I TheNazz I 
I I 
I Fri.IO/Is.&i~Marouidl &Mary Beth HocfiS* I
I Par Three 10:30 -?I Sat.I0/16 • Staae Wirmter • Open Stage 10:30-? I \ *************~******************** I • 
~--------------------~ 

Doonesbury 


YOO t'IUSf 
ff.llUlf\U~TED! 


r»rIT. rU/JI?ING THAT's M A Nl& 51UC!l0N. f?&AU.Y lllfAT'56()1Mj ON~, NON& OF ANY!AIIrf? I IIAVfltr )fJ{JR 81JSJ­



CAfDL, l':l TtlAT 1\ TROLL 51TTIN6 ON OUR TURN· 

The Daily Crossword 
©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 10/15/82 All Rights Reserved 

Thursday's Solution 


Garry Trudeau 
Campus 
•2 
p.m. -St. Teresa ofAvila Symposium, "The Spirituality ofStone in Bernini's St. Teresa," Robert 

T. 
Petersson, Smith College, CCE 

•3:15 
p.m. -Workshop, "What Happened to Work Ethic," Sidney Harman, 331 O'Shaughnessy Hall 

•3:30 
p.m. -Lecture, Aristotle on the Goods of Fortune," John Cooper, Library Lounge, Sponsored by Philosophy Department 

•4 
p.m. -Field Hockey, NO Women vs. Marion College, Alumni Field 

•4:15 
p.m. -St. Teresa of Avila Symposium, "The Woman, The Water, The Way: A Story of the Experience ofGod," CCE 

•4:30 
p.m. -Earth Science Guest Speaker, "Groun<lwater Hydrology and U.S.G.S. Programs in Groundwater," Gorden D. Bennett, 101 Earth Sciences Building 

•5:15 
p.m. -Mass and Supper, Bulla Shed, Sponsored by Campus Ministry, 

•5:30 
p.m. -St. Teresa of Avila Symposium, "Vespers of St. Teresa," Lady Chapel, Sacred Heart Church 

•6 
p.m. -Spanish Club Fiesta, Wilson Corn­mons 

•6:45 
p.m.-Rosary, The Grotto 

•7, 
9, and 11 p.m. -Film, "Casablanca," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by NO Pre­law Society, 51.00 

•7 
p.m. -Pep Rally, Stepan Center 

•7:30 
p.m. -Friday Night Film Series, "The Aviator's Wife," Annenberg Auditorium S2.00 

•s 
p.m. -Soccer, NO vs. DePaul, Cartier Field 

•s 
p.m. -ND SMC Theatre Presentation, "The Taming of the Shrew," O'Laughlin Auditorium, S2.SD for students 

•9 
p.m. --:-NAZZ, BOb Marovich and Mary Beth Hocks 

•9:30 
p.m. -Band, "The Wandells.",Chautauqua, LaFottune Ballroom, Sponsored by NDSU, 51.00 

•I
0:30 p.m. -NAZZ, Par '_f~e in Concert 


T ''!T . h-­
-._ .-v. ontg t 
A p.m. 22 Dallas 28 Greatest American Hero 34 TBA 
9p.m. 22 Falcon Crest 28 The Quest 34 Religion and Social issues, 
tO p.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 The Dick Cavett Show 
!0:30p.m. 16 Tonight Show 22 C. B.S. Late Movie 28 ABC News Nightline 34 Captioned ABC News 
llp.m. 28 Fridays 11:30p.m. 16 Late Night With David Letterman 
The saga of a
B •

rtan 6 month old domer. 


"iA~LE? 
ACROSS 1 Beginning 5 Affirmed 
solemnly 10 Der­14 Gallimaufry 15 Criterion 16 "1-new 
heaven../' 17 Rainy-day 
aid 20 Eur. nation 21 Element 22 Atelier 
item 
23 Delivers, theologi· cally 
25 Verygood grade 26 Brainchild 

\ Q 
H()', WHAT:S 
27 Zut -! (French ex­clamation) 
29 Courage 31 Classic 
work 32 Wrath 35 FOR affec­
tation 39 Freudian concerns 
40 -up 

(relaxed) 41 Long time 
period 42 Fragrance 43-Morgana 45 Makes 
points 48 Arthurian milieu 

51 Noel 52 Sawllke part 54 Glaciarium stuff 55 Second-rate lawyer 58 Hllo neckwear 59 Oater 
author 60 Night sight 61 Befond 62 Chills 63 Old thrall 
DOWN 1 Groom's 
gift 2 Dress shape 3 Blowouts 4 Biblical 
land 5 Diagram 6 Emulates 
Penelope 
7 Draft classifi­cation 
8 Croissant 9 "30" 
10 Thais, Vietnamese, etc. 
11 Slip away 12 Bird sound 13 In advance 18 "Peter Pan" 
pirate 19 Kook 
24 Old Norse literary collection 
25 Ark man 27 Transmog· 
rify 28 Fibbed 29 Fi's 
preceder 30 Pitch in 31 "-girl!" 32 Dreamers 33 Oldcar 34 Fish·eating 
bird 36 Iterate 37 Diner sign 38 Behind 42 Shakeup 43 Comedies 44 Nanking 
nanny 45 Burn with liquid 
46 Brief appearance 47 Circum­navigate 48 Labyrinth site 49 Vast 
expanse 50-Haute 52 Hang-up 53 Beige 56 Gotcha! 57 Biochemical 
suffix 


-~----~ -----------~ 
---~----------.--------~ 









