• • .Murday, -page 3 


VOL. XVI, NO. 76 an mdependem srudem newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's MONDAY,JANUARY 18, 1982 
Ambassador '-wrong' about Walesa 
LONDON (AP) Solidarity "The decision has been made," he mcnt official denied that Walesa's release was imminent, Britain's In­
leader lech Walesa w!ll be freed "in said. "He is going to be released in the very near futurt"" and martial law the very near future. I cannot tell dependent Television Network reported. The network said the offi­
will be lifted in two or thrct" weeks, you the exact day, but it will be soon." cial, whom it did not identify, said
Polan<.l's ambassador to Britain said yestt"rday. Officials in Warsaw 
Staniszewski's comments were the: "ambassador was wrong." reportedly said the ambassador was 
not reported by Radio Warsaw or West Germany's national radio mistaken. 
other official Polish news media but station, Dcutschlandfunk, reported Ambassador Stefan Staniszewski were broadcast into Poland by Wes­that a spokesman for Premier Woj­told reporters at London's Heathrow 
tern stations. An official at the press cicch Jaruzelski denied Stanis­Airport he had "good news about 
center in Warsaw declined yester­zewski's statement, offering no day afternoon to confirm or deny explanation but saying he "had been
Lcch Walesa." Staniszewski was at the ambassador's statements. empowered" to issue the: denial. 
the iirport to meet his wife, who was rt_-turning from Warsaw. Later yesterday a Polish govern-The ambassador's estimate of when martial law would end also seemed to contradict Polish govern­ment spokesman Jcrzy Urban, who
Temperatures damage 
on Saturday said military rule would remain in force: until the conditions that led to its imposition had been

0 'Shaughnessy radiator 
eliminated. Walesa, leader of the now­suspended independent trade uni­
weeks," added Dedrick. "In most of

By MICHELE DIETZ on, has not been seen publicly since 
the cases, either the heat was turned

andEARLRIX martial law was declared Dec. 13. oft~ or as in this case, a window was
StaffRl!porters Reports reaching the West say he left open." Most of the breaks have arrest a
has been under house at been on the north or west sides of
At approximatdy 6 p.m. last night, government villa in Warsaw. buildings those to
a broken radiator spewing hot water because sides arc Staniszewski, who came Lon­more exposed to the record-cold
was discovered in room 207 don tlvc days after military rule 
O'Shaughnessy Hall. winds. About two thirds of the 
began, said conditions in Poland arc 
breaks have occurred in dormitory

Water from the broken radiator "improving, and although martial 
rooms.

kaked down into the room directly law is continuing, it will only be for bdow. room 107, and subsequently another two or three wccks." into thl· first lloor hallway and In Washington, State Department
"Plt:ase ask everyone to close

sevl·ral othl·r dassrooms. officials reserved comment on
their windows and leave the heat on

According to Donald Dedrick, Staniszcwski'~ remarks. 
to prevent the freezing and breaking

dirc:ctor of the physical plant, the "This is a vt·ry casual statement,"
of pipes during this bitter cold

leak m:<:urred because a window left said a spokesman for the State
weather," emphasized Dedrick. 

open in the room allowed cold air to Department's Polish working group.
The leak in O'Shaunt:ssy caused 
"We arc waiting fur confirmation
several acoustical ceiling tiles to fall 

from other sources.""Please ask everyone off in room I07. The ceiling itself is Sen. Larry Pressler, R-S.D., return­A broken radiator on the secondfloor ofO'Shaughnessy created 
concrete and the tiles arc glued onto 
problemsfor Notre Dame maintenance last night. The mo.m direct.
ing from a four-day fact-finding trip
to close their windows the ceiling with mastic. The damage 
to Poland aboard the same LOT ly be~ow ~be sb~ttered pipe was drenched with steaming bot water, 
to the ceiling is limited to the glued

and leave the heat on Polish Airlines flight makmg zt a vzrtual steambatb. See story below. (Photo by john
as the ambas­

ceiling tiles falling off and is in no Macor) · 
sador's wife, said he doubted Walcsa
to prevent the freezing way structural, according to 
would be freed unconditionally.
Dedrick.
and breaking ofpipes during this bitter cold 
At 8:45 p.m. last night, Dedrick 
'Aberrant logic' 
weather,, emphasized said that the radiator had been fixed and, "As far as I know, all of theDedrick. rooms will be able to be used tom­
Judgefears DozierUJilldie
morrow." He added that after theentt'r the · room and freeze the ceiling dries off, new ceiling tilesradiator. When it warmed up, the 

would have to be glued on. Dedrick ROME (AP) -A leading Italian and assassination arc the most im­urban guerrillas were afraid one of radiator broke. 
judge predicted that Red Brigade portant strategy. the captured terrorists would leadsaid he believed most off the ceiling"There have been I 'i or 20 cases damage was limited to room I07. terrorists, following "their aberrant Of the six people kidnapped by police to the "people's prison"of broken radiators in the last two 

logic," will kill kidnapped U.S. Brig. the Red Brigades in the past two when· the SO-year-old general is Gen. James L. Dozier, II Messaggero years, two have: been murdered and held. reported yesterday. three have bccn released unharmed. "The terrorists probably feel the
"Unfortunately, I believe that tht" The sixth is Dozier. 


Urban Plunge students 
Red Brigade will follow their abcr· Anti-terrorist police in Verona hundreds of policemen making rant logic of assassinating the said recent police successes have searches arc breathing down their thrown the terrorists into confusion. necks," said one anti-terrorist police
prisoner," Rome's largest circula­
discuss soctalproblems 
tion daily quoted Investigating officer, who asked to remain readings am1 is continued through anonymous.
Judge Fcrdinando lmposimato a~ Police have captured 32
By MICHAEL WILKINS 
ft ollow-up meetings and readings. In­suspcctcd left-wing and "It's impossible to know,
saying. lmposimato is one of the top­terrorists 
StaffRl!porter 
terested plungers may also take however, if this sense of insecurity
ranking magistrates investigating found several hideouts with large "Unseen City," a theology course political violence in Italy. weapons caches since Dozicr was will be good or bad for the general,"
Participants in the Urban Plunge 
taught by Fr. Don McNeil. four terrorists disguised as plum­abducted. They speculated that the hl· added. 
continued their follow-up process Students participate in tht· follow­
bers scizcd Dozier, the top-ranking
yesterday with a meeting in the up sessions to discuss their impres­
American official at NATO head­
Memorial Library auditorium sions of the Plunge experience. 
quarters in Verona, from his Verona
ti)llowt·d by group meetings in tht· 
Hawaii no paradise
Reactions to the plunge arc usually on Dec. The
apartment I7. Red
homes of Urban Plunge facilitators. 
strong, according to many of the 
Brigades issued their fourth state­
This year's plunge included ap­program's participants. 
ment in the case Saturday, but still
proximately 26'i students at 58 sites "Not many people know how 

for incoming pets 
have not posed any conditions for
throughout the country, according poor the poor really arc," said 
the general's release. An anonymous
to Rt·g Wcissart, Urban Plunge coor· Akaiko Okazaki, one of many stu­pcnaltics of J I,000 or a year in jail. 
phone-caller Sunday claiming to By LINDY WASHBURN 
dinator for the Center for Experien­Since importation of the serpents
dents taking the: plunge. "The Urban 
speak for the Red Brigades told the Associatl!d Prl!ss Writer 
tial Learning. to Hawaii is illegal, n:pcnrant snake
Plunge gave us a good perspective 
Italian news agency ANSA that
Arrangements for students to take smugglers often stow contraband in
on how bad things really arc." 
Dozier had been ~illcd, but police A Waikiki security guard peered
the plunge arc made through the a sack, drop it at the zoo entrance
"The plunge makes you a lot more 
said they believed the call was a through binoculars last year and
CEL with contacts from participat­and call police anonymously. Zo~
aware of more of the causcs ofsocial 
hoax -like hundreds of other false spied a nude woman entwined with
ing cities. Students arc allowed to go herpetologist Scan McKeown says
problems in the inner cities," noted 
mcssages they have received. two boa constrictors on the 35th 
to the city of thdr choice, and nor­such donations arc made six or
Jim Uhll, who took his plunge on The 45-ycar-old magistrate said floor of an apartment building.
mally stay in parishes in those cities. seven times a year. 
Chicago's West Side. Uhll also com­
Dozier was likely to be killed be­Police investigated and ap­
"Our contacts in the cities look legal importation of more com­
mented on the mental povcrty in the cause he was in the hands of the prehended the unidentified exotic
li1rward each ·year to having the mon domestic pets faces a different
inner city. "These people have little "militarist wing" of the Red dancer, who refused to divulge
plungt·rs come to their city," Wcis-obstacle: quarantine.
hope of raising themselves up. 
Brigades. Members of that faction, where she obtained the snakes. The 
sart commcntcd. The plunge "Owners suffer more from
sometimes known as the group's woman left for the: mainland withinbq~ins with an orientation 
See PLUNGE, page 4 
"hawks," believe that kidnappings the week, escaping possible SeeHAWA/I,page4workshop and introductory 

By The Observer and The AssociatedPress 
Intestinal CanCer induced in rats at the University of Notre Dame's Lobund Laboratory has been reduced by more than 90 percent following treatment with indomethacin, a drug commonly used to treat arthritis. The finding is the result ofcontinuing research in which indomethacin was tested as an antitumor agent by Dr. Mor­ris Pollard, Lobund director, and by his associate, Phyllis H. Luckert. This most recent phase of their work was published in the Oct. 30 issue ofScience, the official publication ofthe American Association for the Advancement of Science. While there currently is no ef­fective treatmment for intestinal cancer in humans, indomethacin 
has shown continuing promise in the Lobund research. With in­domethacin, the incidence of animal tumors had been reduced by 40 percent. -The Observer 
Scholarship funds for minority engineering students at the University of Notre Dame will be $16,000 richer during the 1981-82 academic year with a contribution from the National Ac­tion Council for Minorities in Engineering. The contribution is designed to lend financial aid for 14 minority engineering students designated by the University. The scholarship funds are awarded annually to universities committed to recruiting and graduating in­creased numbers of minority engineering students. The recipients are students with financial need who have demonstrated their academic ability in engineering. The NACME grant to Notre Dame is part of a 52.5 million distribution to 3,000 engineering students at 
126 schools. · 
The DepartmentofAerospace and Mechani­
cal Engineering at the University of Notre Dame has received 54000 in grants from the Society of Manufacturing Engineers for the pur­chase of technical publications and books. Notre Dame is one of 3 7 universities and technical institutes receiving grants from a total of S166,185 dispersed by the SME Manufacturing Engineering Educa­tion Foundation. The grants are hoped to spur new developments in manufacturing technology and productivity, and to further manufacturing engineering as an educational discipline. 
Emmaus, a Community with the Handicapped, invites all 
who are interested in helping society's wounded to join them once a 
month. At 2 p.m. on the second Sunday of each month, members 
meet at Moreau Seminaryfor Liturgy and a social hour with the hand­
icapped. All who wish to attend are welcome. Emmaus is a group 
inspired by the philosophy of L'Arche, which is an international 
community dedicated to mentally retarded people. Inspired to share 
his life with mentally retarded, who are often rejected by society, 
jean Vanier, a theologian and son of a Canadian governor, opened 
the first L'Arche home in France in 1964. Giving to and receiving 
from one another is at the heart ofthe L'Arche comQJ.unity. 
Archbishop Raymond G. Hunthausen 
of Seattle, a proponent of unilateral disarmament, will speak at the 
University ofNotre Dame's Memorial Library auditorium january 29 
(Friday) at 8:00p.m. His public lecture, which is sponsored by the 
Community for the International Lay Apostolate ( CILA), is entitled 
"Why Challenge Nuclear Arms? Risking a Christian Response." The 
Seattle archbishop drew international attention last year when, 
spt:aking to the Pacific Northwest Synod Convention ofthe Lutheran 
Church in America, he called for unilateral nuclear disarmament and 
suggested that Christians in the United States should consider 
withholding half of their federal income tax as a nonviolent protest 
against "nuclear murder and suicide." "I am told by some," Arch­
bishop Hunthausen said, "that unilateral disarmament in the face of 
atheistic commmunism is insane. I find myself observing that 
nuclear armament by anyone is itself atheistic and anything but 
~arne." He said that it was time for American Christians "to return to 
the Gospel with open hearts to learn once again what it is to have 
faith." -The Observer 
Partly sunny and warmer today. Occasional 
flurries, with temperatures reaching to the mid 20s. 
Monday, January 18, 1982 -page 2 


Defying the image 
A recent interview with National Student Poll Direc­tor Alexander W. Astin revealed some interesting perspectives on the attitudes of today's college stu­dents. The annual survey his organization (the American Council on Education) conducts focuses on college freshman, but Astin generalizes those findings to all college students. 
Astin says that college students ofthe 1980's are "less skilled, more materialistic and less philosophically committed than young people of a decade or so ago." statistics only reinforce the point) as lazy, indecisive He cites declning college-admissions-test scores and in-and irresponsible. We're only receivers ofour parents' flated high school grades as reasons for poorly generosity, unwilling to prove ourselves as they did. developed scholastic abilities. Young people are now, Face it; we're losers. according to Astin, "less inclined to think that they can The images are reinforced over and over again. have any influence on national events that affect their Numerous newspaper accounts of the damage and lives than youth's 10 years ago," and he adds that stu-violence that arises from the negligence of young dents are more pessimistic "about the likelihood that people are printed daily. Television news reports are government or other major institutiops are going to be just as accurate at focusing on the negative. But, after all, responsive to their concerns." from a journalist's perspective, I have to agree with 

Materialism also predominates students' thoughts. their coverage. If it's news, it must be known, but why The "clear-cut trend" shows "that making money is an not add the positive to the negative? important goal in life" along with "more power, more Millions of teenagers and young adults participate in recognition, more status." Hard work has also been for-volunteer programs, aid elderly citizens in their com-gotten. "Student ambitions are focused on money and and are active in such programs as the Peace status rather than on per-Corps and Holy Cross As­sonal development. They sociates, and should not be aren't nose-to-the-slighted for their efforts. Per-grindstone types. They are haps the the public, press more interested in being and television should accept consumers than producers." this type of news. 
He does give students Both the press and televi­some credit, however. Op-sion treat young people un­timism amidst the crowded HH~E ME • fairly. The reports of their 
job market; increasing kindnesses towards others liberalism on specific issues I't"' ~E'V-~Y. should equal those of their (nuclear war, women's t'fll APAT!4Eft(.. crimes, even if this new rights, energy, the environ-I.'~ Lft'Z.Y. policy forces reporters to ment and consumer protec-fa:J.J..y ~I{II.LEO, dig a little deeper. tion); and increased "t'l'\ {,et.fiSH. But young people also maturity in personal con-l..' Nl fi\4TEfl.IAU"SoTI(.. have their work to do. duct are all highlighted. ....._... Talking about an unfair 
But the increased 'I+ h~~o:S t'o \,e:trve. image is one issue, but es-freedom young people are Sorr.e.. 'f>h,l). W\Th o. fol tablishing a more credible experiencing, Astin warns, fold ~ !.(>. one is a task that each of us leads st_udents to be "more ~'f'll.W must undertake daily in our cautious and ambiguous. They are less able to make lives. Whether one is a student, just beginning a career commitments. The share of students who are un-or already active in "outside world," we must defy the decided about their eventual life career is at an all-time established image. 
high." Astin may have some well-researched, documented 
As a college student, Astin's findings might anger you and valid points in his U.S. News and World Report ar­but their validity cannot be disputed. The poll is con-tide, but I can't help think that he's wrong. I don't think ducted each year and trends in young people's attitudes we're as ignorant as he believes; I don't think we're as are changing, unfortunately for the worse, at least materialistic as he deems; I don't think we're as pes­according to published reports like these. simistic as he says we are; and I don't think power and 
But maybe that's where the press and television go status are of the major importance that he has 
wrong. Maybe today's young people don't deserve the detem indl . bad reputation a few have established for the rest. One It's no doubt that young people want to be happy would hope that people wouldn't generalize the actions with their lives, and that type of decision certainly in-ofa minority to the majority, but they do. eludes choices in career (where materialism and time 
When I was a senior in high school, my principal spent at the job are considered) and personal goals, but asked me and a couple ofother students to speak before we're not as narrow-minded as Astin, his statistics and his Rotary Club on any subject we wished. The topic possibly his associates think we are. Life certainly that I chose then is still of great concern to me: the means more ~o us than he knows. treatment of young people in the press and on televi-Observer notes
sion. 
-----------, 
. The Observer is pleased to announce the promo­tion of the following staff members to the position of News Assistant: Sophomore Dave Sarphie, and Freshmen Margaret Fosmoe and Bob Vonderheide. 
As Astin's article reflects, we're perceived (and his 
···················•·········•·····••················•···•••··• 
The_Ohs.eryer 
R.ADlATlON 
Design Editor .................. Gregory Swiercz Design Assistatzts .................. Paul McGinn 

LAB TOURS 
Typesetters ........................ Toni Rutherford Bruce Oakley NewsEditors................................,Kdli Flint Bob Vonderheide Copy Editors ........................... Paul McGinn Joe Musumeci Sports Copy Editor ............. Skip Desjardin 
JANUf\R'l J.S,~c.)~r-z 
Typist .................................... John McCarthy 
ffi' 3:00 r. M.
Systems Control ................... Bruce Oakley ND Day Editor......................... David Grote 
l'EE'T lN R.AD Lf\5 LOef>Y Ad Design ....................................John & Co. Pbotograpber ............................ Juhn Macor 
RN'{oNb. IN1f.R.&STrD SIGN W 
Sf'O.N.SoR!iD B'{
Guest Appearances ............................. Static 
lt{ i:NG1Ne£t:.lN& ~·_s efFie.\: 
More and more static 
TFI\J &1fl PI ~D I just can't take any more static 
c:r FLooR rrr2?ffTRlc.KI 
j
..b\Ni t.:tJ~\N~t.RING tmJNC.lL .BY JFiN\Jft~ ~1. 
··················••·•··•·•·•·•••••••••••······················ 
Editorial Board


==Ihe='lbseO{er== 
Editor-in-Chief..............................)ohn McGrath 
Founded November 3, 1966 
Executive News Editor ..... Kdli Flint Sports Editor ............................... Skip Desjardin r:he f!bserver is an independent newspaper published by the students of the News tditor............................. David Rickabaugh Photo Editor........................................)ohn Macor SMC Executive Editor........... Mar}' Agnes Cart:' , Editorials Editor......................Anthony Walton
Umversrty of ~?tre Dame du ~a~ an~ Saint ~ary's. Co!leg_e. It does not necessarily reflect the polroes of the ~d~mrstratron o_f erther_ ms~rtutron. The news is report­......................... w1ercz
SMC News Editor......................Cathv Domanico Features Editor Gregory s · ed a~ a~curately and_ as _obJectively as possrble. Edrtonals represent the opinion of 
Department Managers 
a maJ~nty of the Edrtonal Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of therr authors.. Column SJ?ace is_ a~ailable to all members of the community, and 
Business Manager ......................... Rich Coppola Production Manager................... Michael Monk Controller.............................................joe Mulflur Circulation Manager .............Tom MacLennan
the free expressron of varymg opmrons on campus, throU&h letters, ii encourii.ged. 
Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owen Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley
P.O. Box Q, Notrt> Damt>. IN 46556 

The Observer Monday,January 18, 1982-page 3 
Murdaylists springsemesterwor 
By MICHELE DIETZ 
StuffReporter 
Student Body President Don Mur­
day revealed future plans and overall 
goals ofthe Student Government for 
th~;: Spring semester in a candid in­
terview yesterday. 
Murday discussed major plans for 
a study group presently getting un­
der way that will study the quality of 
student life at Notre Oame. The goal 
of this group will be to improve the 
social life at Notre Dame, and their 
primary focus will be the building of 
a nt.·w student center. 
Murday, as chairperson, plans to 
arrange for people from outside the 
university, such as sociologists and 
psychologists, to come in and study 
social life here. Eventually the group 
will write a report to present at the 
Trustees' mn·ting in May. 
Usually, Trustees' meetings 
review student life at Notre Dame. 
The meeting in May, Murday hopes, 
will he difft-rent. He suggested that 
"An imkpendt.·nt report will be very · 
valuabk bt.·cause somebody from 
the outsidt.· will he ti>rming an 
hmw~t. ohjenive opinion and that 
way wt.· will have no biases." So far, 
an industrial psychologist from the 
University of South Carolina has 
agrt.Td 10 work on the project, and 
otht·r~ will soon join him. 
Murday will do the ground work. 
lk rt.·marked "I would have loved to 
have dont.· this years ago. bm with 
thrt.·e months kft, I want to get it 
done now." 
Another group, abo to he chaired 
hy Murday, is limning to study tt.·at.·hing at :'llotre Dame anti will also bt· prt·senting a rt:port to the trus­. tn·s. According to Murday, this is in rt.·sponst.· to opinions that the social life is not the only area that needs 
work. 
l Hha plans include an off-campu~ 
t.'<l-\JP service, a .!4 hour banking 
~nvkt· and a tldi line which will 
begin in South Dining Hall on 
Ft:bruary l . 
The co-op primarily provides stu-
The Observer (USPS 598 920) rs published Monday lhrough Fnday and on home loolball Salurda ys. excepl dunng exam and vacalron penods The Observer rs published by lhe sludenls or Noire Dame and Sarnl Marys Col· lege Subscnpllons may be purchased lor $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnlrng The Observer P 0 Box 0. Noire-Dame lndrana 46556 
The Observer rs a member ol The Associated Press All reproduclron nghls are reserved 
Second class postage pard al Notre Dame. lndrana 46556 



AIL Sophomores 

rmational Meeting for all students interested in applying for Fall1982 or Spring 1983 
Arts and Letters London Program 
Thursday,Jan. 21, 1982 
7:30PM 122 Hayes-Healy 
uents with a market where they can 
shop for groceries. A marketing 
research class will be studying this 
project anti Goose's is the target to 
be renovated. 
The banking service should be in­
stalled in the bus shelter this sum­
mer by the Credit Union. The 
project now awaits funds. 
"I hope to accomplish everything in mind," Murday continued. "Ifnot, I will help the next President and let him pick up from there. I plan on working until graduation day if I have to. I don't merely want to wash my hands of it. There is too much I staned. When I lt:-avc I want lO look back anti sec some accomplish­ments that have hc:ttc:rc:d Notre Dame." 
Looking back on last semester, 
Murtlay commented that "it was suc­
cessful. Studem government has 
grown a lot. I'm a little disappoimetl 
with some things but we did ac­
complish a lot for the students." 
One disappoimment still 
prevalent, according to Murday, is 
the "missing link between the ad­
ministration and the other factions 
of the University, such as rc:cwrs, 
students. and faculty," adding that 
tht· keg proposal was an example. 
"Bm kegs aren't tht.· issue anymore," he continued. "Wt· won't pursue it any further. The issue is whether the administration is out to make positive strides to hdp tht· 


SMCBoarddiscusses 
I 


library'renovation 
By MARY MciNERNEY 
Neu•sStaff 
The Saint Mary's Board of Gover· 
nance discussed last night recom­
mendations by the College Center 
Committee regarding the old 
library. 
The Board approved a motion commending the College Center Committee, chaired by Dean Rice, for excellent recommendations concerning the renovation of the old library into a College Union. Stu­dent Body President Eileen Murphy commc:ntc:tl, "The Board of Gover­nance recognizes what a positive step the new College Center will be for Saint Mary's. It will bring faculty and students together, along with Notre Dame students in a more natural setting. " 
Board members expressed ap­preciation for the student-oriemed program crc:atc:tl by the committee. which is comprised of faculty, ad· mtmstration and students. An anonymous S500,000 donation has been earmarked for renovation of the old library. 

In other business, the Board decided that the parietals issue will no longer be given to an Atl Hoc committee and will return to Board discussion. "The parietals issue needs quicker action with input from the entire board," Murphy said. The Board will construct a survey anti present the results to the Board ofRegentsin May. 
Other issues discussed included the Hall President's Council, which will be discussed at a separate meeting of hall presidents; cur­riculum chaeges which will address future women's issues; and new issue suggestions from Board mem­bers. 
situation. If the administration turn~ thir backs, something is not right. Many times the administration is a reactive body instead of an active · body." 
Murtlay, commenting on his ex­perience as Student Body President, said, "The biggest thing I learned is that you have to work with people and within the system to get things done. We need continuity, patience and persc:rvc:rancc:. We can't just demand -we must show the in­itiative to do the work." 
Life Magazine exhibit continues 
An exhibit of historic photographs from the first decade of We Magazine has been continued umiljanuary 24 at the Snite Museum of Art. The exhibit, originally scheduled to close at the end of the year, has been drawing record crowds. A new display of Recent Ac­cessions is st·hetlulcd to open 
January I 0 and continue until April 
II in the Print, Drawing anti Photog­
raphy Gallery. 

DANGER! THIN ICE 
UNSAFE 




a1n· 

Rea·nt~v. signs have appeared by Ho~v Cross indicating that tbe ice 011 Saint Mary's Lake might be too thin to c.·ross. However, the Hogs seem to clisprove the signs as all are u.sing the annual winter shortcut across the lake. (Photos byjohn Macor) 
--------------------~~~ 
pastas spaghet mastaccio 

Also,from the Recipe superbly,/);ti/!l:flll:.-;~~ a choice ofthin PIZZA small, m edi'"6 '"'",., , ......,.,,..,.., 
all ingredi Hours tues-wed...thu..r:s..+..>"xLUY:'..::X'''J. fri 

The Observer Monday, January 18, 1982-page 4 

Leslie Griffith seems to stand out in the crowd attending the Urban Plunge follow-up seminar last night in the library auditorium. (Photo byjohn Macor) 
Engineers advancing systems 
While engineers are quick to em­phasize that removing the pilot from commercial aircraft is still too sensa­tional an idea, researchers in the University of Notre Dame's Depart­ment of Electrical Engineering are working to advance engine control systems that may make the pilot's job easier. When the space shuttle Columbia made its second voyage last November, one phase ofthe mis­sion centered on the craft's landing ability. Although it came to rest by manual maneuver with the aid of a microwave landing system, the craft is equipped with a computer tech­nology enabling it to land autmati­cally. 
Grants mounting to S315,000 
over seven years from the National 
Aeronautics and Space Administra­
tion (NASA) have funded research at 
the University examining a new 
technology which would enable jet 
engines to be controlled by digital 
computers. 
Under the present direction ofDr. 
Michael K. Sain, professor of electri­
cal engineering, physical variables 
that affect the operation of gas 
turbine engines are being studied 
for a proposed switch to electronic 
control. 
Sain compared the technological 
change to the advent of digital 
watches. "It's like asking us to build a 
new watch now beyond anyone's 

WELCOME! 

5200 0FF II 
Any large Deep Dish SicUianPizza 1 
Good at Cleveland Road store across 1 
from University Park Mall• 277-5300. 1. 
OnecouponperpiZZa Expires Jan.3l,l982 I 
••~ble'l\9~•••• 
fREE I 
Pitcher of Coke I 
with any large Monster Pizza I Good at Cleveland Road store across I from University Park Mall• 277-5300. I One coupon per piZZa. Exp~res Jan . 31 , I 9 8 2 I 
•••~ble1\.oma~ •••.1 
.~'r:r·~
~l(oJl~ 
277-5300 

JlYYX2Jl!J!§$JlJ~-Alf~ 
Save 25% offthe listprice 3-5day delivery on titles not in stock We also buyback usedtextbooks from 1-4p.m.Mon.-Thurs. 
Open 11-6weekdays 10-5weekends 
PANDORA'S BOOKS 937So.BendAve. 233-2342 

.; { j :; . 
:. : 

ability to comprehend." In devising new theories for electronic engine control, Sain said the premise is based upon "instruction handled by a computer instead of springs and pipes." 
A future change to electronic con­trol by computers, Sain said, would pose the possibility of a master device for airplanes to control flight surfaces of the plane such as elevators and rudders, as well as engines. With more variables electronically controlled, Sain said the jobs of future pilots could be made easier. 
The University's part in the 
continuedfrom page I 
quarantine than the animals do," 
says Charles -Middleton, who has 
managed the state's 32.5-acre com­
pound for nine years. 
"People come to me and swear 
the animal will die if left here, and 
three or four weeks later they're 
back complaining it's forgotten 
them," he said. 
The cost for four months of confinement is steep -S466 for dogs, 5400 for cats. That is one fac­tor preventing rabies being spread to the islands, Middleton says. Generally, people who are willing to pay such fees already have been taking good care oftheir pees. 
There are, he adds with emphasis, no exceptions, not even for seeing eye dogs. 
.. . Plunge 
continuedfrom page 1 
There's little sense offamily or com­
munity. It's just an overall negative 
attitude." 
Plungers are encouraged to do something about feelings generated by the plunge, either through volun­teer programs or just in the way they view the nation's poor and their problems. "I've given a lot of thought to the reasons tor their poverty," Uhll added. "People just have co put themselves into these people's. shoes." 
Mardi Gras announces stereo 
•
wtnner 
The Mardi Gras Committee is pleased to announce that Anne Bar­santi, a senior from Lyons Hall, is the winner ofthe car stereo raffled off by the committee. Anne became eligible f(>r the raffle by procuring more than 20 sponsorships for the 
Feb. 13 Danc-a-thon. The committee 
encourages the 497 other dancers to 
keep selling their sponsorships. 
Many more prizes, including a color 
television and a stereo system, will 
be awarded. Contact your hall repre­
sentative for more informacion. 
~---­

project now includes a small study group looking at the possibilities of computerized engine control. Studying the theory of ~uch new technology is useful, Sain said, since it can eliminate some ideas that would not even be worth testing, while at the same time it can un­cover new theoretical schemes for existing technology. 
But while Sain and his study group look at new theories, he said the ac­tual testing proceeds slowly. "When it may cost S I million to do an actual test, it's wise to do several feasibility studies first." Similar reasoning means the change will occur very slowly with commercial aircraft. 
• ..Hawaii 
Each caretaker lo.oks after 52 animals. In December there were 640 dogs and 256 cats in custody. Howard Furumoto, a local animal advocate, said, "State quarantine does an excellent job looking after the welfare of the animals while in­carcerated." 
Occasionally something goes wrong. In the first ruling of its kind, the Hawaii Supreme Court ordered the station to pay S 1,000 last year to a family for emotional distress caused by the death of their boxer dog. She died of heat prostration in 1975 after station workers loaded her into a van exposed to the sun for a trip to t.be veterinarian. 
Three dogs were stolen from the 
compound in 1981, prompting 
tighter security measures and a 
warning about possible spread of 
rabies. 
Questions arise each year as to 
whether the 120-day quarantine is 
needed. Some veterinarians argue 
careful scr.:cning and proper vac­
cination would have the same ( ffect. 
Others disagree. 
''We have something here that works. There's no sense shifting to something we're uncertain about," Middleton says . 
University 
establishes 
news number 
A taped telephone service report­ing events at the University of Notre Dame has been assigned a new telephone number for the new year, 239-5110. 
Visitors to the city and regular patrons of University events use the service to receive up-to-date news on programs ofpublic interest. 
English class 
at new time 
The "English as a Second Lan­guage" class originally scheduled for 
8:30 p.m. in 107 O'Shaugnessy, has been changed to 4:30-5:45 p.m. beginning Jan. 19th. All foriegn stu­dents and their spouses may attend this class free. 
·--

Beatk Cu£f.u~ta£ Ad'"' fMfitW! fMki~lt Skow CtHttlttitUu> 
~~~~ ••c ~'-I ,. I •• a~~t ~Mki11.1t ~klltt 
~~IUKg o.££ ~t•L\ UtW..'lMWd Ut beiKg oHHtiU!f. e~cee o't ~t(U_le Ulll.'tk. Pick up utfo al St•t Acfit_lifit>J (.Ca fll'tftute) O't Bruck Studit>J OHice (345 O'Slwl!) 
· Ufr..'te il(fr. ccJf Kevil( 1246 9ttyce 6936 

The Observer Monday,January 18, 1982 -page 5 
Senator reports 

Shortages critical 
LONDON (AP) -Medical, food and clothing shortages in Poland have become critical, but U.S. aid should not be resumed until martial law is lifted and jailed Solidarity leaders are freed, Sen. Larry Pressler, 
: R'S.D., said Sunday. · '• ·· "I do'noithink we ean (resume 
:' aid).,wli,U ~ pr~~~-:UC:.CC:lease!-1artd until We are sure that so'll'le. of the repressive measures that are going on are ended," Pressler said af. ter a four-day visit to Poland. Stopping here on his way back to Washington, Pressler told reporters at Heathrow Airport that his trip convinced him the Soviet Union was behind the imposition of martial law in Poland. President Reagan expressed the same opinion when he imposed economic sanctions on Poland and the Soviet Union last month after the Dec. 13 crackdown on the independent labor move­ment. 
Pressler said this interpn:taion cf martial law also is shared by Poland's Roman Catholic primate, Arch· bishopJozefGlemp. 
"Clearly the Soviets are behind it," the senator said "The people believe that. The primate believes tlw. Tbey cold me. But the Soviets O~J;flle In a very in"isible, mys·

ieiiOus way.'' '·•' · .. · Pressler chairs a Senate sub(:om· mittee that watches over the u.s. Food for Peace program. He at· tended a meeting of the Food and Agricultural Organization in Rome last week and met Pope John Paul II, who urged him to visit Poland, the senator said. The pontiff feared starvation would soon sweep his homeland, Pressler said. During the visit to Poland, Pres­sler said he met with six senior government officials, including Secretary Stefan Olszowski of the Communist Party's central commit· 
Weather foils efforts to raise Flight 90 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Faced with sub-zero temperatures and biting winds, recovery teams tern· porarily abandoned efforts yester· day to raise the tail section of an Air F T lorida jetliner from under the frozen Potomac River, delaying the investigation of the air disaster. 
Temperatures were minus five 

degrees when the salvage operation 
rl·sumed at dawn on the icc-covered 
river, and had risen to only seven 
above at midafternoon. "It's impos· 
sible to work out. there," said 
Rudolph Kapustin, the chief inves­
tigator for the National Transporta· 
tion Safety Board. 
One diver had to be rescued him!'...lfwhen the valve allowing him to breath underwater frOZl'. Officials said he was unharmed but the inci­dent forced divers to switch to new equipment to continue any diving at all. 
"We're operating at best at 30 per­cent of what we were capable of doing," police Inspector ames Shugart, spokesmen for tht.• recovery efti1rt, told reporters near the recovery sill·. 
By midday. no additional _victims had been pulled from the crumplc:d Bodng 737, although one diver at a time probed the icy waters. Police spokesmen said 46 bodies had been recovered since the salvage opera­tion bq~an. 
The National Transportation Safl·ty Board task force, meanwhile, continued to look into other aspects of last Wednesday's crash in which "H persons wcrl· killc:d when the plane struck a crowded commuter bndge spanning the Potomac and plunged into the icy water. 
Maintenance records on the plane were bdng examined and in­dividuals who saw the plane shortly after it took oft' from National Air­port continued to be interviewed. The left wing of the aircraft, recovered from the river yesterday, was hauled to an airport hanger for close examination. 
At the same time, the question of whether too much ice had accum­ulated on the plane before takeoff remained a subject of intense inter­est for the federal investigators. A Braniff Airways pilot expressed con­

cern  about  ice  on  the  wing  and  
fuselage shortly before takeoff.  
Meanwhile,  it  was  learned  that  

Boeing Co., the 737's manufacturer, warned operators of the plane last June to take certain precatJ'tions be­cause ofa tendency of the aircraft to experience a "severe roll ......or 
just after liftoff' when there arc icy 
conditions. 
While snow and icy conditions prevailed when the Air Florida plane crashed, safety investigators said ex· amination of the plane's left wing, pulled from the water Friday, showed the pilot apparently complied with Boeing's flap setting suggestions. 
But only examination of the aircraft tlight recorder and cockpit voice recorder -both still in the tail section under the Potomac River -will provide specific information as to whether the pilot may have lifted off too abruptly under the prevailing weather conditions. 



Group evaluates Aging Conference 
The rct.:ent White llouse Con­

fcrencc on Aging produced 600 
resolutions devdoped hy 14 com­
mmittl·es. but a number ofdelegates 
walkl·d away questioning whether 
priorities set ti1r the elderly will be 
impll'mented or have any future im­
pact. 
AJth,Jugh a tlnal report of the con· fercnce is rcquirt·d by June I, a geronotological specialist at the Uni­versity of Notre Dame will attempt to dig deeper into tht· impau of the White House confcrl·nt.:c and into two other conft-rt·ncl'S hdd in the pa~t 14 months. 
A S~';,OOO plannin~ ~rant from the Rl'tircml·nt Foundation will sup­port the initial dliJrt~ of Dr. John Santos, professor of psychology and director of Notre Dame's program in Gl·rontological Education. Research and Services ( Cil~RAS ), to devdop a strategy in evaluating thl· con­
fcrcnces. The evalution process is planned as a four-year program pen­ding continut:d funding. 
The focus of the Retirement Research Foundation's funding is in­creased implementation of recom­mendations made at the conferences. Santos said the Founda­tion funds many such conferences and is pushing for increased im­plementation so that work achieved is not in vain. 

from the Notre Dame campus, Santos will serve as the overseer of a Washington, D.C. based committee formulated to collect data to be used in determining the most effective means of researching the impact of the three conferences. The data, Santos said, will be collected from the public sources and "site visit" in­terviews with persons who attended the conferences. 
•



lfl Poland 
tee. But he said he refused to meet 
with Gen. Wojciech jaruzelski for 
fear the Poles could usc it "as some 
kind of propaganda that things are 
back to normal." 
Pressler said food, medical and clothing shortages have become "critical, particularly in the Baltic area." 
When he visited a Warsaw super· 
market, Pressler said, he found that 
there was no meat for sale. Clothing 
and shoes are in short supply, he 
added, and many areas limit shoes to 
one pair per person. 
The senator was asked about a 
statement made yesterday by Polish 
Ambassador to London Stefan 
Staniszcewski that Solidarity leader 
Lech Walesa will be released "in the 
near future." He responded: "I 
believe Walesa will be released in 
some form, but not competely. It 
will be in a mixed way." 
Pressler did not elaborate, but his reply suggested the popular union leader might have to agree to certain conditions set by Polish leaders before gaining his freedom. 
He said Glemp told him Walcsa 
was refusing to enter talks with 
military authorities while he is in 
detention. "The primate said Walesa 
does not want to negotiate before he 

has an " the senator said. 



CIINEIHAI 

monday night film series II 
A groupmg of distinguished films shown 1n conjunctiOn With the course GOTH 140 (Bas1cs of F1lm Studies) and sponsored by the Deparlment of Communication & Theatre ' All showmgs at the Annenberg Auditorium, the Snfte Museum of Art, Notre Dame Campus at 9:00 P M unless otherwise noted 
Individual AdmiSSions $1.00 
January 18 
Mother Kldten Ooee to HNven D~rected by 
Rainer Werner Fassbinder. 1975 (108 minutes. Color) German with English subtitles A widow's quest to make sense out of her husband's death leads her on a Swiltian journey 
1hrough some of the more ludicrous arenas of yellow jOurnalism and left-wing ideology. 
January 25 
Only Angela Have Wlnga D~rected by Howard Hawks. 
1939 (121 m1nutes, B&W) "Calling Barranca." For Jean Arthur. av1ator Cary Grant takes enough time off from a~rma11 melodrama to nsk getting burned twice 1n the same place R1ta Hayworth provides the heat source for Grant's first burn. 
February 1 
The Big SIMP Directed by Howard Hawks. 1946 
(114 m1nutes, B&W) 
A mystery that links Humphrey Bogart and Lauren Bacall 1n the 
most electric of their screen couplings. Bogart 1s private eye 
Philip Marlowe. Bacall is a lady With secrets. 
February 8 
Gilda D~rected by Charles V1dor. 1946 (110 m1nutes. B&W) R1ta Hayworth 1S the femme fatale 1n a film no11 love tnangle set 1n Latin Amenca. Watchmg Hayworth mamed to h1s boss IS enough to unbalance Glenn Ford. espec1ally when she s1ngs the s1zzllng "Put the Blame on Mame" number. 
February 15 
Touch of Evil Directed by Orson Welles. 1958 
(1 08 minutes. B&Wi 
Winner of the Grand Pnze at Cannes and perhaps Welles' most 
spectacular film, Touch casts Welles as a corrupt and gone-to­
pot shenff addicted to chocolate bars and h1s own code of law. 
who gets m1xed up with Charlton Heston (a Mex1can pollee of­
fleer) and Janet Le1gh (Heston's newlywed w1fe) in the Investiga­
tion of a murder. Also features Marlene Oietnch as a madam 
February 22 
Young Mr. Uncoln Directed by John Ford. 1939 
(1 00 m1nutes. B& W) 
All the ease, charm and arttstry ol Ford's dtrectton IS revealed m 
this most convincing portrayal of an earnest. honest. and 
humorous Abe Lincoln (played with conviction by Henry Fonda). 
Based upon real and conjectured incidents. the story concerns 
itself w1th Abe's defense of two young men accused of murder 
March 1 
Once Upon a Time In the Weat Directed by Serg1o 
Leone, t 969 (I 65 m1nutes. Color) 
A monumental study of revenge and loyalty 1n the Amencan 
West that filters the IConography of Ford's Monument Valley 
through a cnt1ca1 European perspective on Amencan h1stoncal 
myth. With Jason Robards. Claudia Cardinale. Charles Bronson. 
and Henry Fonda (cast aga1nst type). 
Senes T1cket t 3 films for $10.00 
March 8 (9:15) Ev.., Man for Himself D~rected by Jean·Luc Godard, t 980 (87 minutes. Color) F•ench w1th English subtitles Constructed much less like a con­ventional narrattve and more hke a ptece 01 mustc, lhts arrange­ment of rhythms. motifs. sounds. and 1mages prov1des a framework for Godard's diStilled meditations on such themes as commerce. sex, country and c1ty, ctnema and v1deo. 
March 22 
All That HNven Allows D1rected by Douglas S1rk. 
1955 (89 m1nutes. Color) Jane Wyman must choose between m1ddle-c1ass. middle-aged loneliness w1th a TV set and a youthful bohem1an romance w1th Rock Hudson that scandalizes her Children and the country-club set 1n th1s "woman's weepy." 
March 29 
Cellne and Julie Qo Boating D~rected by Jacques 
R1vette. 1974 (193 m1nutes. Color) French w1t'1 Engl1sh subtitles ThiS sem1na1 film of the '70s IS a lark-a dazzl1ng jack-ln·the-box of a film that comb1nes elements ot The Arab1an N1ghts. slapstick comedy, Tristram Shandy. Cocteau. commed1a dell'arre. H1tchcock. Proust. An Ame11can m Palls. Henry James. Borges. <!tld Alice m Wonderland 
Apnt 5 
Equinox Flower Directed by Yasuwo Ozu. t 958 
(1 t 8 m1nutes. Color) Japanese w1th English subtitles The most modern and self· quest1on1ng of Ozu·s archetypal father-daughter confrontations 1n which he portrays people who are res1gned but harmon1ous 1n their 1am11y relationshipS 
Apill 19 (7 00) The Ceremony D~rected by Nag1sa Osh1ma. t 971 (122 m1nutes, Color)· Japanese w1th English subtitles Rad1ca1 politics. baroque style. and .. absurd1st" dramat1cs mtx 1n a ftlm whose scope •s the en· t~re history ot postwar Japan. A fam11y dynasty eventually becomes a n1ghtmare ot 1ncest and 1nvers1on as blood relatlon­shtps and the flashback structure comt>1ne to collapse space. t1me, and order. 
Aplll26 
Perceval D~rected by Enc Rohmer. t 978 
(140 minutes. Color) French w1th English subtitles ThiS mus1cahzed romance dep1cts a s1mple Welsh lad who sets out to become one of K1ng Arthur's Kn1ghts of the Round Table With a blunt and allen very funny forthnghtness, Perceval encounters beautifUl ma1dens, bloody combat. strange spells. and sh1mng castles 
M.JHd lYMU/MINJ ,1Hk1'\ 
C{)ltvHIJNIIC!lllrii{)N(;1r1r1E/illr~E 

r 
r 
~ 
~ 
Monday, January 18, 1982-page 6


'Sports Brie_h 
By The Obserwr and The Associated Press 
The Student Union has announced that there are Hopes for an undefeated season for the 
Board
still eight openings remaining for the ski trip during Spring Break 
Notre Dame wrestling team came to an end on Saturday as the Irish 
(March 13-19 ). To sign up, bring a $75.00 deposit to the Student 
fell to Wabash, 28-12. Don Heintzelman scored half of the team's Union ticket office today.lfyou have already signed up for this trip, 
Saturday's Result
points with a pin at 134-pounds. Doug Skinner( 150-lbs) and Brian 
Notre Dame 59, Davidson 45
please bring a second deposit of $50.00 to the ticket office by Mon­Erard ( 158-lbs) were the only other members of the team to come 
Davidson (45)
day. -The Observer 
home victorious. Notre Dame now stands at 6-1 and will host 
M FG-A FT-A R F p Bowling Green and Defiance in a triangular meet at the ACC Pit on 
Tribus 31 6·9 0·0 4 2 12 Thursday night at 7:00. -The Observer 
Franz 34 1-3 2-2 2 I 4 Hall 39 3-7 2-2 2 4 8 Wilson 34 3·7 1-3 I 3 7
Every Saturday night,the Student Union will spon­
ser a ski trip to Swiss Valley. Advance tickets can be purchased at the 
Carroll 39 3·5 4-6 0 2 10
ticket office for $2.50, or for 53.00 on the shuttle bus. The bus will 
McConnell 3 1-1 0·0 I 2 2
Notre Dame's Fencing team ran its winning streak
depart from the Main Circle at 5 p.m. every Saturday and return to 
Rowan 9 1·3 0-0 2 I 2
to seven matches with a pair of wins over the weekend. The Irish 
McDonald 7 0·1 0-0 I I 0campus at 11 p.m. All are invited to come and join the fun. -The 
came up with a surprising 19-8 win over rival Ohio State, as well as a 
R. Wilson 4 0·0 0-0 0 I 0
Observer 
23:4 victory over Michigan State in a weather-imposed triangular 
200 18-36 9-13 13 17 45 meet. The event became a thre-team affair when Bowling Green was 
FG Pet.·. 500. FT Pet.· .692. Tc:am rebounds· 
2. Turnovers · 13. Assists · 7 Franz, Carroll-2.
unable to travel to South Bend. Outstanding performances were 
Technicals. Franz-I.Women's track and cross-country runners will meet 
turned in in the foil competition byJim Thompson and Mark Dejong, 
Notre Dame (59) both 4-0. In the epee, Kevin Tindell and Rich Daly won seven 
tomorrow at 7 p.m. in Lt wis basement to discuss practices and 
M FG-A FT-A R F P
meets. All are welcome. For more information call Lisa ( 8091 ) or 
Varner 40 3-' ;.6 10 2 II
matches between them without a loss. It was a big day for freshmen,
Cindy (8073). -The Observer 
Spencer 29 5·7 0·2 5 3 10
as Mike Janis went 4-0 in sabre competition, and Andrew Quaroni 
Andree 21 l·'i 2·2 7 5 ~ 
did the same in epee. -The Observer 
Mitchell 10 1·3 0-0 0 0 2 Paxson 39 3·10 3·3 I I 9
The Tae Kwon Do Karate Club of Notre 
Grassey I 0·0 0-0 0 0 0
Dame will hold its fi~st practice of the semester tomorrow at 6: I 5 
Rowan 30 ;.g 3·4 2 I 13
Women fencers did not tare quite as well as the men 
Kelly I 0-0 0·1 I 0 0 this weekend, losing 14-2 to Ohio State before dropping Michigan
p.m. in the wrestling room ofthe ACC. Old member are encouraged 
Love I 0-0 0·0 0 0 () State, 11-5. Senior captain Susan Valdiserri was the standout for the 
to attend. New members, whether advanced or beginners, are 
Rucker 28 5-!! 0-0 ~ 2 I 0
welcome. For more information call Ray ( 288-3108 ). -The Ob­
200 23-48 13-18 30 14 59
Irish, winning t1ve ofher seen matches, including the only two team
server 
FGPct.· .'179. FT Pet. ·.722. Team rebounds·
victories against the Buckeyes. -The Observer 
I. Turnovt:r~ · 14. Assists· H Pax~on-4. Techni· 
cats· Bench-2. Halftime · 27·27. Officials -R. Weller Big
The WOmen's golf team of Notre Dame and St. 
Ten. D. Brown Big Ten,J. Howell Southern. A. 
Mary's will meet Wednesday january 20 to elect oficers. Anyone fnterhali hockey gets underway this week. Tonight, 
11,200. interested in participating is asked to attend. The meeting will be 
Alumni takes on Pangborn in the first game, and Sorin meets Morris­
Friday's Game
sey in the second. Tomorrow, Dillon and St. Ed's battle prior to aheld in the 24-hour lounge in Breen-Philips at 7 p.m. -The Observer 
Notre Dame 9, Michigan 4
Fischer-Holy Cross match. Thursday action continues with an Off­
Notre Dame 3 2 4 -9 
Campus meeting with Zahm, as well as a Cavanaugh-Keenan game. 
MIChigan 0 4 0 -4 FIRST PERIOD-Scoring -1, NO. Poulin, 14,
The first game begins at 10: I;, and the second at II:30 each night. 
(Bow1e, Logan). :13. 2. NO. Logan. 11. (Rothstein, Schmidt). 11:45. 3, NO. Brown, 4, (Luc1a), 12:32. Penalties-UM, Tippen. (minor. holding) 3:59. NO. 
The Fellowship ofChristian Athletes is -Thr> Observer 
sponsoring an evening with tiket manager and former football co­
Brown, (minor. h1gh sticking) 4:16. NO, Collard.
Ed Fioridropped a 35-foot birdie putt on the second hole of
captain Steve Orsini. The presentation will be held in the Farley Hall 
(minor. Interference) 10:59. NO, Collard, (minor,
a sudden death plyoff yesterday, beat Tom Kite and won the marat­
elbowing) 13:15
chapel Wednesday at 8:30p.m. FCA promotes Christian fellowship hon, five-day Bob Hope Desert Golf Classic. Fiori had to come from 
SECOND PERIOD-Scoring -4. UM. R1chter. 
among athletes and coaches in hope that this will be shared with the 
3, (Milburn. Krussman). 2:01. 5. NO. Brown, 5.
behind with a two-putt birdie-4 on the 90th hole -the last regula­
(Logan. Rothstein). 2:55. 6, NO. Poulin, 15,
larger community. All are invited. -The Observer 
tion hole in this, the longest tournament in golf -to forge the tie 
(Rothstein, Logan), 6:36. 7. UM. Milburn, 2. 
(Richmond). 10:38. 8. UM. Mcintyre. 4, (unassisted).
and force the playoff He and Kite, the leading money-winner in golf 
11:11. 9. UM, Richmond, 4, (Speers. Lundberg),
last year, finished the reguation five rounds with scores of 335, 25 
12:41 Penaltles-UM. Tessler, (minor, 1nterternce) 
Bengal Boxing workouts begin this afternoon at 3:30 
2:13. UM. Grade. (m1nor. slas1ng) 18:39.
under par and matching the tournament record. Kite had a closing­p.m. in the Boxing room of the ACC, and will continue until the 
THIRD PERIOD-Scoring -10, NO. Brown, 6,
round 66, six-under-par on the 6,455-yard Indian Wells Country 
(BJork, Bellomy). 3:35. 11, NO. BJork. 13, (Regan.
Bouts are held, March 7, 9 and 11 ..,..-The Observer 
Club course. Fiori closed with a 67. The victory, Fiori's third on the 
Bellomy), 10:42. 12. NO, Poulin. 16, (Doman), 16:05. 13, NO, Doman. 2, (Luc1a. Schmidt). 19:47 Penalties
tour, was good for the .550,000 first prize. -AssociatedPress 
-UM. Milburn, (minor, charging) 2:36. NO, Bellomy. (minor, holding) 7:56. NO, Doman. (minor. slashing) 
9:04. UM. Richter, (minor, high sticking) 9:04. UM, Speers, (m1nor, roughing) 9:53. NO, Bowie, (minor,
The Off-Campus Hockey team wm hotd its first 
hooking) 14:36. UM, Neff, (minor. tnpp1ng) 16:20. Shots on goal:
practice Wednesday night at 11 p.m. at the ACC Ice Rink. -The Ivan Lendl roared back from two sets down and 
Notre Dame 11 7 15 -33
Observer match point to defeat Vitas Gerulaitis 6-7, 2-6, 7-6, 6-2, 6-4 yesterday 
Michigan 9 12 12 -33 
Goaltenders -Notre Dame, Launon. M1ch1gan. Mason. A-4.512 · 
and win the $400,000 Volvo Masters tennis championships. The vic­tory was worth $10,000 for Lend!, who came into the eight-man, year-ending tournament as the No. I seed. Lend! faced match point 
s.turday'a Game
in the third-set tiebreaker when Gerulaitis was up 6-5, but won the 
Notre Dams 2, Michigan 2 Notre Dame 1 0 1 Q-2 Michigan 1 1 0 Q-2 
Ohio State freshman guard Troy Taylor, who ex­next three points to grab the set and begin his surge to the title. 
perienced Indiana Coach Bobby Knight's infamous wrath Saturday, Gerulaitis, pocketed the runners-up purse of $50,000. -Associated 
FIRST PERIOD -Scoring -1. UM. lundberg, 1, 
described the Hoosiers' coach as impolite -win or lose. Player and Press 
(Richmond, Tippen), 13:25. 2. NO, Rothstein. 16. (Poulin, Logan), 14:10. Penalties-UM, McCom­
coach locked horns with eight seconds remaining in the game and 
mon, (minor. tripping) 5:43. NO. Schmidt. (minor.Indiana leading 62-57. Their exchange was followed by one be­
charging) 112:28. SECOND PERIOD-Scoring-3, UM. Tippett. 9.
tween Knight and OSU coach Eldon Miller. Indiana's Randy Wittman 
(Richmond. Lundberg), 8:14. Penalties-UM, Rich­
The American Conference champion
~ad just fired a one-handed pass the length ofthe court to streaking 
mond. (minor. roughing) 2:51. NO. Chapman. (minor. 
Cincinnati Ben gals are being treated to film re-runs oftheir 21-3 loss 
roughing) 2:51 NO, Doman. (minor. holding) 7:41.
Jim Thomas. While Thomas was attempting to slam dunk the ball, 
UM. Yoxhe1mer, (m1nor. tripping) 11:31. UM. Speers.
to San Francisco as they ready themselves to meet the 49ers in theTaylor leaped up to block the shot, catching Thomas on the wrist. 
(m1nor, slashing) 13:58. NO. Bow1e. (minor, slashing) 
Super Bowl. It was the Bengais' most lopsided defeat of the season, 
16:45. NO. R1Cc1. (minor. h1gh sticking) 17:04. UM.
Thomas fell to the court, apparently striking his head. Knight 
Kobylarz, (minor. rough1ng) 19:29.and the only time the offense failed to score a touchdown. It was also
stormed onto the court in protest, checked Thomas, who hurt his 
THIRD PERIOD-Scoring -4. NO. Poulin, 17,
the Bengals' worst day for holding onto the football. They had six
wrist in the collision and then headed for Taylor underneath the 
(unassisted), 19:06. Penalties-NO, Brown. (minor. 
turnovers, including a season-high three fumbles lost. San Francisco 
tnpp1ng) 17:50.
Hoosier basket. "He (Knight) cussed me out. I don't know what he 
OVERTIME -Scoring -None. Penalties ­
ranked third in the league in producing turnovers. They took the ballsaid, but I told him I was sorry I fouled him (Thomas), and then he 
None. 
away 48 times, recovering 21 fumbles and intercepting 27 passes. 
Shota on goal:
started screaming and calling me everything in the book. I think 
Notre Dame 12 24 14 3-53
But the Bengals' 24 turnovers this season were the fewest in the NFLthat's the type of person Bobby Knight is -very impolite, win or 
MIChigan 10 10 9 2-31
They fumbled only 12 times and had just 12 passes intercepted. ­lose. He's just a very rude man," he said. "I'll never forget him for 
Goaltenders -Notre Dame, Laurion. M1ch1gan, 
Elliot. A -4,034
Associated Pressthat." -AssociatedPress 


Classifieds 
Hal Have we got the the candidate for 
I LOST/FOUND I LOST: ONE RED-HAIRED GIRL: Please  INDIVIDUAL OR GROUP COM· FORTABLE HOUSE CLOSE TO CAMPUS. BUS. $500 PER SEMESTER & SHARE OF UTILITIES. 288·3942 AF· TER 5:30PM Walking distance from campus (5 blocks) crawling dtst from Corby·s-Notre Dame  WANTED RIDE TO MIL·FURNISHED HOME AVAILABLE NOW WAUKEE/MADISON ANY WEEKEND277·3604 CALL SUE 2968 I~_w_A_N_TE_o__lj~_F_o_Rs_A_LE~I  PERSONALS I IF YOU'VE GOT IT. FARLEY WANTS IT HUMPHREY BOGART FANS -SEE  you. Since there is no uglier human being in the world (and the animal kingdom for that matter) than Michael Ortman, the UMOC contest Is ab­solutely over. IT IS OVER. MICHAEL ORTMAN FOR UMOC ..... OF COURSE. Thrs rs a story of two fersty wenches and their apparent friends who plaited aga1nst  
come home.  Apts. on bus rte .. bar pnvacy,inexpensrve.  THE MALTESE FALCON TUES JAN 19  these farr mardens out of envy and petty  
Call K1rk 283-8930  MARKETING NEEDED: Part  t1me  COORDINATORS poSition involves  BOOKS FOR SALE.  ANDWEOJAN20 7.9.11 ENG. AUD.$1  1ealousy Our story beg1ns on third floor Walsh Hall where the dangerously  
marketing  ana  promoting  high  quality  DO  YOU  HAVE  WHAT  FARLEY  IS  dev10us duo of Katre and Dons are trantr·  
FOR RENT  J  ROOM FOR CAMPUS/SAFE  RENT/CLOSE TO NEIGHBOR·  Spnng Break beach tnps on campus. Earn commiss1on plus free travel Call Summ1t Tours. Phone: 1(800)325-0439  COURSES ECON 115. GEOLOGY(EASC INTRO TO MUSIC-2200  102).  LOOKING FOR?  cally schemrng the dernrse of their beautl· ful. rnnocent. unsuspectrng roommate Sweet Jane Recently Sweet Jane and  
HOUSE FOR RENT. EDISON PARK. 2 MILES EAST OF CAMPUS. 234-6302. FOR RENT. UGLY DUCKLING RENT A CAR. $1 0. A DAY WITH 50 FREE MILES. PHONE 259·8459 FOR RESERVA­TIONS. Share furnished house w/2 graas.  HOOD/CALL JOHN 3333 FOR RENT 4 BEDROOM HOUSE NEAR CAMPUS POPULAR LOCATION CLEAN, IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY. CALL272-8866 AFTER 3 NEEDED ROOMMATE: GOOD LOCA­TION CLOSE TO CAMPUS $75 A MONTH NOT INC. UTILITIES CALL  LOOKING for 20 people who des~re $1000 monthly extra Income on a part tme baSIS. Onentation will be Thursday. January 21st at 6:30 in Park Jefferson French Quarters Call for direCtions ana 1nformat1on Wednesday January 20th. between 3:00 and 5:00 P.M. Call 256­5941.  BOOKS NEEDED: COURSES GOVT 341-INTL RELATIONS. GOVT 342·COMPARATIVE GOVT. ENG 386· MAJOR AMERICAN WRITERS II. ACCOUNTING 261-BASIC CALL CHRIS AT 1678ANYTIME 2 CALCULATORS: Sc1.slide rule.floa1.8·  MEN HATERS ANONYMOUS IS NOW FORMING INTERESTED WOMEN PLEASE CONTACT CRUSHED. DEJECTED. OR LOVELESS PRESENTED BY A CLUELESS DORM ROOM .. .. . .. Anyone willing to do DAN ELDER'S laundry please call h1m at 1765  Polly the Blonde Bombshell won the hearts of mtlhons of Amencan males and were awarded the tttle of Ferstrest Wenches of Amenca. prev1ously held by KatiE! and Dons Something snapped 1n therr devthsh mrnds. and these prevrously wonderful wenches were gruesomely transformed tnto brutal brUisers wtth only one th10g on their m1nas · REVENGE And they would go to any length. 1nclud1ng  
1 00/mo & 1/3 utiI. 287-Q356.  STEVE 233-3411  TUTOR-to  teach  weekend  classes  d1g d1sp.log.roots etc ... small metnc con·  InVIting 87.000 people to their t1ny room  
STUDENT tiOUSING-FULL Y FUR· NISHEO. CLEAN. SAFE. WASHER. IJRYER, RATED SUPERIOR. $100/MO lOTAl. 291·1405.  2 ROOMS PRIVATE SHOWER AND ENTRANCE 288-0955 FURNISHED HOMES CLOSE TO NO  preparing tor Med1cal College AdmisSIOns Test. Requ~res ln·depth knowledge of College Biology. Chemistry and Physics. teaching experience a plus. Graduate or PhD student 10 SCienCe preferred Call  verter.5fctn&16 conv tctns.w/batt x1229. 2 RUGS:Avocado shag.good cond.ext.cut 14x10 ..green pnnt.good  JIM Happy Birthday BABY. Can·t walt tor all those we'll share LoveN & F Lynn. THE DISEASE FROM NEW JERSEY HAS INFECTED INDIANA JOHN  for a Happy Hour. 1n order to make Jane and Polly s lives as mtserable as posstb{e But they wouldn't stop there. Kat1e and Dons have other more gruesome plans forthelf Fe1sty Wench roommate. Tomor­ 
FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 277·3604  232·2366.  condd  11 x9 x1229  MACOR IS THE UMOC!!!  row. THE PLOT  

The Observer-Sports Monday,January 18, 1982-page 7 
Record jump surprises Lewis 
EAST RUTHERfORD, N.J. (AP)­Being unfamiliar with the rules surprisingly hc..·lped Carl Lewis set a world indoor best for the long jump. 
1'he precocious 20-year-old from 
Willingboro, N.j., considered the 
finc..·st track and field athlete sine t e 
Hall of ramer Jesse Owens, had 
tiJUled on his first two attempts in 
the U.S. Olympic Invitational track 
and field meet Saturday night at the 
Meadowlands Arena. 
In championship competition, he would have been eliminated if he had li>uled on his third try. lk did not know that in an invitation meet sud1 as this, he: still would have three jumps left if he fouled on his third try. 
So he decided to do a "pop-up," a safe practice manuever, on his third try. 
Till' result was the first 28-ti.>ot in­
door long jump-l.H-1. 
kwis didn't think the jump was c..·vcn do~c to the previous indoor record of l."'!-1 0 he set last year at the Southwt Conkrence Champion­
ship~. 
"My run wa~ of(" he said. "I thought it was in the lows 26s. I just wanted a legal jump. This one didn't kel ~o gootl. I really didn't run all out. I didn't give it a full efti>rt." 
The record leap was the only legal efti>rt by the University of llouston junior. Afier that, he fouled again and passnl his last two attempts. 
Lewis, the NCAA indoor and out­door champion and the winner at last yc..·ar's indoor national cham­pionships, also has the longest out­door legal jump at sea level-28-3. That has been surpassed legally only by Bob Beamon's world record 29-1 at the 1961-1 Olympic Games in Mexico City's high altitude. 
Lc:wis' 28-foot indoor jump marked a series offirsts for the meet, the first U.S. Olympic Invitational in two years and the first meet at the 
• • .Klauke 
continuedfrompage 10 
"I hope I can shoot like that the rest of the season," she says, only half· jokingly. 
She describes herself as a kid who "goes bonsai" inside when she's in­volved in competition. And now that she's involved in competition again, there will be quite a few chances for her to "go bonsai", like she did against Ball State last season, coming oft· the bend1 to score 27 and snare 
I .3 rebounds in an Irish loss. That game was one of five in a six-game stretch in which Klaukc: came offthe hc:nch to lead Notre Dame in scoring. 
She wasn't entirely happy with that role, "but I played a lot of minutes, so I guess it was o.k." 
Now, although she'd still like to start, she'd relish the chance to fill the sixth man role again. That would bring her playing minutes up con­siderably. 
It also might lengthen the list of walking wounded. 
IDI•Iflllllllttlntiii..IHitiiUitllllttHitrbl'RwQIIIII'tr 
. s lin i
Rocco's Half ty g i 531 N. Michigan St.,l 
South Bend ~ 
Phone-233-4957 
1 i I•

I *-I I 
L ......................................................... J 
sparkling Meadowlands Arena. 
It was Billy Olson's first indoor meet in two years -he suffered a broken arm in 1980, wiping out his 1981 indoor season -and he: responded with an American record of 18-6 in the pole vault. 
It was Mary Decker's first indoor meet in two years -she missed the 1981 season with injuries -and she came through with a runaway vic­tory in the women's I,SOO in 4:08.32, a meet record. 
It was Don Paige's first indoor race at I,000 meters in I I months ­he also had been sidelined by in­juries most of last year -and he won in 2:21.49, circling the tlcld and surging into the lead just before the gun lap. 
It was sprinter Houston McTc:ar's tlrst indoor race in I I months -he had taken a sclf-enti.>rced absence from the sport -and he failed to 4ualify for the: t1nal of the SS-meter dash, finishing third in his heat in 6,30 seconds. Stanley Floyd, the in­door record holder, won the final in 6.14, beatingjeft· Phillips (6.22) and University of Georgia football star Herschel Walker (6.23 ). 
It was the first meet of the season 
for Evelyn Ashford, named the 
world's outstanding woman track 
and fic:ld athlete li.>r 19H I -the t1rst 
American woman ever to receive 
th,~ honor -and she was upset by 
Jeannette Bollten in the SS-meter dash in 6.74, a meet record. Ashford finished third in 6.80, behind Chandra Cheeseborough, 6. 76. 
It was an embarrassing moment for American record holder Alberto Salazar, as he feII on the first lap of the: 5,000. But Salazar quickly recovered, surged into the lead on the: fifth lap of the 3l·lap race and won going away in 13:23.08, about a half-second offhis national record of 13:22.6. 
It marked the first world record performance: for Jim Ht:iring, a race 
walker  from  the  University  of  
Wisconsin-Parksidc:.  He  set  an  in­ 
door best of S:27.1  for the  I,SOO­ 
meter walk.  

Meet records also were set by James Robinson in the: 800 
( 
I :48.46), Fred Sowc:rby in the SOO 

( 
I :0 I. S I ) and Mc:rlene Ottey of the University of Nebraska in the women's 400 ( S.3.40 ). 


In addition, Ken Lowry ofAmbler, Pa. set a national scholastic record of 
2:26.32 in winning the high school I ,000 meters. 
Other impressive winners in­cluded Renaldo Neh(:miah in the SS-meter high hurdles (6.94 ), Stephanie Hightower in the: women's high hurdles ( 7. SO), Tom Byers in the: mile (3:56.32), Dwight Stones in the high jump ( 7-4 ), Tony Darden in the 400 ( 47.6.3) and Delisa Walton in the women's HOO (2:06.SI ). 

IspendJess studying.  
We'll show you how...free. Evelyn Wood works-over I million people,Would you like to: including students. executives, senators, and even0 Raise your grade average without long hours presidents have provt>n it. A free I hour demon­over texts. stration will show you how to save hundreds of0 End all-night cramming sessions. hours of drudgery this yt>ar (as well as how to0 Breeze through all your studying in as little as increase your speed immediately with some simple1/:3 the time. new reading techniques).0 Have more free time to enjoy yourself. 0 Read:~ to 10 times faster, with h(-'tter con· It only takes an hour. and it's fr(-'(-'. Don't miss it. centration, understanding, and recall. EvelynWood ~!D)Evelyn Wood'sreadingsystem makes it all possiblP. will opt>n your eyes.  
ATTEND ANY ONE OF OUR FREE DEMONSTRATION LESSONS 4 DAYS ONLY! MONDAY TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY JAN. 18 JAN. 19 JAN. 20 JAN. 21 2:30 P.M. 4:00 P.M. 7:30 P.M. CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION AUDIO VISUAL THEATRE ~EVELYN WOOD READING DYNAMICS  

-----------------~---·~~.-·---·------~--­
. ::.~= -=--....... -.... . :II 
The Observer -Sports 

Turner keeps trying for Jackson 
ATLANTA (AP)-~tlanta Braves owner Ted Turner remains in the chase for free agent Reggie jackson, saying he has not yet made his last offer for the services of the slugging outfielder. 
"I don't mow what'll happen, but. 
I'll be taldog to Reggie again soon. 
Real soon. I'm going to try like hell
I· ,~-·to ·pritr'k '()~'''~aid Turner in New-· 
\ York. ·. 
chances of obtaining the services of Jackson were over and that the New 
York Yankees had the inside shot. 
However, several days ago California Angels General Manager Buzzie Bavasi said the Yankees were no lo!lger inten;sted an(i the Ange~ · , Braves and Baltimore Orioles inten-. sified the chase. . . 
"Just thinkbow much fun itwould;· be to have Reggie in Atlanta All 
. "l haven't made my last offer yet,~,-~ ... roads would lead to Atlanta We'd he said in commenting for the first have the most awesome home run time since meeng with Jackson last hitting team in baseball," said Tur-Wednesday. ner. 
Last month Turner believed his "It'd be fun for the fans, for the TV 
........................
• · ---· · -· • history of sports. That s what 
e MEETING l.errybodywants,ri~t?". 
: • 1need pnnhng I 
• Anyoneinterestedin becoming a •• t in a hurry?I 
e 
• SPORTS WRITER :
e 
:TONIGHT 6:30 : 1 j : OBSERVER : 
I 
' ••••..•••••••••••••••••• 
viewers, for the writers, for our 
pitchers, for me, for management, 
. for the ticket sellers, for the peanut vendors. We'd put them on commis­sion," said the Braves' colorful owner. . Tumer also said he had offered " jackson "the biggest contract in the history ofsports" -S 100 million. 
· However, he said it in jest. "I told him I'd have to defer some of it. I told. him I'd give him S 1 a year . for 100 million years. Or maybe S 10 a year for 10 million years," said Tur­ner. 
"But, what the hell? he could still 
s~y he has the biggestcontr~ct in the 

I I1· -~ 203 N. Main1I South Bend I 289.()977 
! 

The Notre Dame hockey team continued to move up the CCHA 
standings with a win and a tie against the Wolverines ofMichigan atAnn Arbor last weekend. (Photo byjohn Macor) 
thewizofthe I 
pri biz _J 
Most~ are headed tOr a I!OOdaareer. Onlya few will influetKethe worfd. 
While most graduates in the areas of Elec­tronic Engineering, Computer Science, Mathematics and Uinguages are deciding on a career direction, a select few are finding more than a career. 
They are the graduates who will work in a challenging environment where matters affecting our national security are a part of our everyday activity. 
They are the graduates who choose acareer with the National Security Agency. From the very outset they will influence the growth and direction of their field<; of specialization. You too, can experience the very same opportunity and challenge in any of these NSA 1­
career field<;. 
Electronic Engineering: There are opportunities in avariety of research and development projects ranging from individual equipments to very complex interactive systems involving large numbers of microprocessors, mini-computers and computer graphics. Professional growth is enhanced through interaction with highly experienced NSA professionals and through contacts in the industrial and academic world'i. Facilities for engineering analysis and design automation are among the best available. 
Computer Science: At NSA you'll dis­cover one of the largest computer installations in the world with almost every major vendor of computer equipment represented. NSA careers provide mixtures of such disciplines as systems analysis and design, scientific applications programming, data base 
management systems, operating systems, computer networking/security, and graphics. 
Matbemadc:s: You'll work on diverse agency problems applying a variety of mathematical disciplines. Specific assignments might include solv­ing communications-related problems, performing long-range mathematical research or evaluating new techniques for communications security. 
Unpists: NSA offers a wide range of challenging assignments for Slavic, Near Eastern and Asian language majors involving translation, tran­scription and analysis/reporting. Newly-hired linguists can count on receiving advanced training in their primary language(s) and can plan on many years of continued professional growth. 
The Rewartls at NSA. NSA offers a salary and benefit program that's truly competitive with private industry. There are assign­ments for those who wish to travel and abundant good living in the Baltimore-Washington area for those who wish to stay close to home. 
Countless cultural, historical, recreational and educational opportunities are just minutes away from NSA's convenient · · suburban location. 
1b find out more about NSA 
your college placement office. For additional infor­mation on the National Security Agency, fill in the information blank and send it to MI: Bernard Norvell, College Recruitment Manager, National Security Agency, Alln: Office of Employment (M32R), Fort George G. Meade, Maryland 20755. 
An Equal Opportunity Employer. U.S. Citizenship Required. 

The National 
Se(urity 
Agency 
More than just a career. 
~-----------------­
I'd like more information about caRer opportunities with NSA. 
My Area of specialization is: 
0  Mathematics  0  Computer Science  
0  Electronic Engineering  0  Languages  
0  Engineering Thchnology  Grad Yr.  

Name (print) ----------­
------PhoneNo. ______ 
Degree Level ---------­
University ----------­
-----------------~ 

f 
The Observer -Sports Monday, January 18, 1982-page 9 
• • • Technical
continuedfrom page 12 

"I'm embarrassed," said tirst-year Wildcat coach Bobby Hussey after­ward. "We arc young and inex­perienced, and we: had so many offensive and ddcnsivc break­downs. We just seemed to sc:lf­destruct." 
John Paxson continued lO struggle from the: floor, hitting just three of his 10 shots. Tim Andree continued his roller-coaster perfor­mance. After playing one: of the best games of his career in San Francisco, Andree could managt· just four 
_points before fouling out of the h:>l­
lgame. 
Tomorrow night the Irish take on 
12th-ranked Villanova at the ACC. 
Rollie Massimino's club will be a 
much tougher test than Davidson, 
and Notre Dame cannot afford to 
play without intensity, as they did 
for a good deal of the first half Satur­
day. 
IRISH ITEMS -Notre Dame shot 
an encouraging 72 percent from the 
line, and arc continuing to improve 
in· that department . . . Tht; lrjsh turned the ball over 14 times, however, which only compounded their problems . . . The 31-1 5 rebounding margin was by far the best of the season in favor of the Irish ... Phelps installed a trap zone for the first time this season, with some encouraging success ... 
Tomorrow's game will get under­way at 8 p.m., and will be: televised nation-wide by the Metrosports net­work. 
West beats East in Japan Bowl 
YOKOHAMA, Japan (AP) Japan's football fans were treated to a see-saw (."ontest between Amc:rkan college stars Sunday as the: 
West came from behind three times 
to win the japan Bowl 28-17 over 
the East. 
Quarterback Sam King of Nevada­Las Vegas hit 26 of 41 passes to lead the West offen!ic. while lineman Har­vey Armstrong of Southern Met· hodist fired up the West defense in the second half with four drive­stopping quarterback sacks. 
King and Armstrong took the best offensive and defensive player awards for leading the West to its fourth conset"utive victory in the Japan Bowl. Sponsored by Sports caught Stockstill passes of 1 7 and 16 yards to advance the ball to the 2. Bob Atha of Ohio State made a 20­yard field goal to give the East a 10-7 lead at halftime. 
While Armstrong and defensive end Andre Tippett of Iowa were leading the defense, King was find­ing the: second-halfrange with West receivers. The Las Vegas passer hit Hawaii's Gary Allen for 31-and 22­yard gains before throwing 1 2 more yards to Darryl Mason of Arkansas for the TD. That gave the West its second lead of the day at 14-10 and capped a six-play. 60-yard drive. 
The East replied quickly. James 
Bettis of Cincinnati had a 40-yard 
kick return from the goal line, then 
came a double reverse which 
allowed Scott to run to his left into 
the end zone, returning the lead to 
the East at 21 ·1 7. 
Armstrong squashed an East drive by dumping East quarterback Buck Belue of Georgia for an 11-yard loss, and Atha missed on a 42-yard field goal attempt. 
King, who passed for a total of31 0 yards, then completed four passes in a nine-play, 66-yard drive capped by a 1-yard plunge by Baylor's Walter Abercrombie ~vith three minutes remaining. 
Nippon. a daily sports newspaper, yesterday's game was the seventh annual all-star matchup between 

Big Ten race sloUJs 
U.S. colkgc Mars to be played here. 
A nl'ar capacity crowd of 28,000 at Yokohama Stadium watched un­der sunny skies, and the game was 

down, but heats up
telecast last night throughout Japan. 
Indiana had little trouble with Ohio State nd the only reason the st·ore wa.., dose at the finish was be­cause offour Buckeye points follow­ing a technical against Hoosier Coach Bobby Knight with eight seconds remaining. 
Knight stepped out on the floor when _lim Thomas suffered an injury and Knight was charged with a technical. 
"1 don't know why it was called," said Knight. "We've got a player on the floor and the rule book says I'm allowed to be out there." 
Knight took the opportunity to criticize the oftkials and said ''Tht· officiating has to be consistent. and this kaguc hasn't had it anytime this year." 
While Knight was lashing out at the officiating, coaches Lou Henson of lllinois and Jud Heathcote of Michigan State were suggesting play be specdt·d up in the Big Ten by in­stalling docks which would force teams to shoot within 2';, 30 or 35 seconds. 
"We must put in a dock," said 
Heathcote. "I don't think the fans 
like all the spreads (delays) they arc: 
seeing." 
Henson said, ''I'm going to suggest that we: put in a dock at the next meeting of Big Ten coaches." 
Still, both teams were guilty of delay tactics in the game that was ticd '; 1-'; I when Derek Harper scored with five seconds to play and Jay Danit:ls added a pair ofdint·hing free: throws. 
Iowa had little trouble: at \X' iscon· 
sin as Bob Hansen led the: way with 
17 points. 
priod in order 10 keep control of the 
.......................................................................................................................... 
game." Laurion's word were more than 
CogUnb'g ffiam COegLgtt
propht·tic. At the 3:35 mark. Brown got his third goal on a powc:rplay to give tht· Irish a mud1 needed cus­
18461 St. Rd. 23 .South Bend, 
hion. Bjork ti1llo\\Td suit seven minutes lata with anothn 
call for appointment 2 77-1875 
po\\Trplay score: on a blast from in front of \1ason's t1rst period replace­ment Elliot. 
-shampoo, conditioner, cut style 
Poulin got ~otrt· Dame·~ third 
Guys-$7.00 (re~. 13.00)
shorthanded goal of tht· gamt· off a nice knl hy Doman. and tht· !attn 
uirls-$10.00 (re~. 18.00)
connt-ctnl at ll):-t .. to t1nish off tht· 
......................................................................................................................,. 
.. 
Ron Rowan came offthe bench to lead the Irish to a 59·45 win over Davidson Saturday. Rou•an's 13 points led all scorers and wet·e a career high for the 6-5 freshman from Beaver Falls, Pa. See story page 12. (Photo byjohn Macor) 
ARE YOU COMING UP SHORT AT 
THE END OF 
THE MONTH? 
There·s one lh1ng !hat's probably common to all college studenls. 
They hove to wolch lhe1r finances. Here·s news about some help you 
may be able to get
Air Force ROTC has four. lhree and two-year scholarships lhat pro· v1de you SlOO a monlh and cover all tUition, books and lab and In­Cidental fees. As an AFROTC cadet, you·u enter an exciting program ot Air Force mslrucllon lhot prepares you for one ot the mosl grol1fy1ng management opportunil1es available today
Then. as a commissiOned officer 1n the Atr Force, you·lltind respon-Sibility and challenge from your very f1rsl ass1gnment you"lllmd that people respect you tor whal you do best 
Cons1der the A1r Force as one ot your goals. and consider lhe AFROTC program as a rood to that goal 11 you need fmanc1ol help to tree your mmd lor your studieS, find out aboul AFROTC scholarships lo-
day. Contact Capt Gottrich, 
239-6635, ROTC Building, 
for more information. 
ROTC 
Gateway to a great way of life. 

While the early going was marked by fumhlc:s and dropped passes, the East S(.'on:d late in the tlrst quarter ~hortly attcr North Carolina lil't·hackc:r Calvin Daniels recovered a West fumhlc deep in West ter­ritory. 
Ea~t quarterback Rick Stockstill of Florida State passed 20 yards to Georgia's Lindsay Scott, and then st·nt Pittsburgh fullba~:k Wayne Dihartola into the end zone from the 4. 
faced with an aggressive East defense, King linally got the West on the: hoard after a long drive at the end of thc tlr~t quartcr. A 27-yard pas.' to floyd Eddings of California and a 17-yard aerial to Willie Kurran of UCLA set up King'1o 9-)'ard TD run on the st·cond play of the second quarter. 
The East made good ust· of the last 
I '; st·cond~ of the first half. Scott 
continuedfrom page 12 
momentum going into the tina! paiod. lk.~idc~ .Koring the last thret· goals oftht· second stanza. the PA annmuKcmt·nt that Bo Shcm­ht·~:hkr had decided to stay hrought the -1,';12 spt·ctators to their feet with juhilation. 
The st·riousm:ss of the situation was apparant in tht· lockt·rroom, as I.aurion de~-rihcd aftawards. 
'Til have to admit that I was pretty worried. But we: decided that we had to get the tlrst goal of tht· third 
ByJOE MOOSHIL 
AP Sports Writer 
Despite low scores and slow­down tactics another sec-saw, nail-hiting Big Ten basketball ran· is taking shape:. 
Four teams -Ohio State, Min­nesota, Iowa and Purdue -arc tied t(lr tlrst place with 3-I records and three others. including defending NCAA champion Indiana arc only one game behind the leaders with 2­2 marks. 
Indiana created the logjam for first place with a 66-61 victory over Ohio Statt·, snapping the Buckeyes' ninc-game winning streak. Min­nesota lurt"hed past winlc:ss Michi· gan 62-58, Iowa dumpt·d Wisconsin 78-62, Purdue downed Northwes­tern 56·51 and Illinois edged by Michigan State';';-'; I. 

, .Hockey 
wounded Wolverines. 
Asked if there wa.' any spt·dfic reason ti1r the impressive outburst by the Irish. Brown replied, "Lefty told us what \tichigan had said about us being stkkmen. so we just wanted to go out and play good ht·ads-up hockt·y." 
Whatever the reason. tht· result was extremely positive. and with an even hotter Bowling Grn·n duh on the horizon, the Irish know that this same type of hockey will be their ticket to more wins. 

• 
The Observer-Sports Monday,January 18, 1982 -page 10 

Klauke returns with gusto 
By MARK HANNUKSELA 
Sports Writer 
It was a less-than-auspicious 
beginning. 
Four points, no rebounds, two fouls, two turnovers, 5:55 ofplaying time. 
But it was a beginning, a begin­ning that's been a long time coming for Jenny Klauke. 
For four months, she sat and watched, while the other girls went out to play without her. It was like the proverbial little kid, stricken with the dreaded chicken pox, watching from a bedroom window while all the kids from the neighbor­hood played outside. 
Four months. That's a whole sum­mer. Break your leg in May, get the cast offin September, just in time for the first day ofschool. 
Some vacation. It's been like that for Klauke. Uke a vacation you'd just as soon forget. 
"I'll tell you," she says, "I'll never take it fur granted again. I've never had to sit that long before." 
The story: Klauke was running on the track that surrounds the tennis courts in the ACC. She felt some­thing she thought might have been a cramp. And she kept pushing. 
"It was like, I felt something," she says, "but I just said 'Come on you wimp, it's nothing serious.' " 
X-rays showed nothing, but the leg still hurt. A second set of x-rays revealed the problem: Stress fracture. The cure: stay off it. 
"I didn't feel right sitting there saying 'Let's go, you guys, hustle,' while I'm not out there doing it myself," says the sophomore native of Glenview, Ill. "I'm just so glad to be back, playing. It's so fantastic." 
Fantastic, yes, and a little scary. If you play for the other guys. 
"Mary Murphy (a graduate assis­tant) told me before the St. Francis game to stay calm, take it easy, and not to go wild if I got in. But after sitting for four months, I'm sure.'' 
The dilemma Murphy and Irish head coach Mary DiStanislao faced before that game was whether to risk injury to a Saint Francis player by letting Klauke play for the first time against them, or to wait, let Klauke practice Thursday, and risk injury to one ofher teammates. 
"We can't let her play, not tonight." "Even if we're ahead by a hundred?" 
"Well.. . no, we can't, not tonight. She's liable to fly right through the roof." 
The decision may not have been too popular among Klauke's teammates. 
But everyone survived that Thursday session. and Friday's, and Saturday's. And then it was Sunday, and the Irish had another game, and this time, Klauke was allowed w play. 
When she checked in to the scorer's table with 10:27 left in the game, all the months of watching were nowhere in her mind. _ 
All the months ofswimminglap af­ter lap in the Rock, conducting races with unsuspecting opponents just to break up the monotony; all the months of shooting without jum­ping, an exercise that has forced her to relearn the mechanics of her jump shot; all the months of con­ditioning only that part of her body that would not twinge with pain af­ter the workout -all that was be­hind her. 
All the months of not playing competitive basketball was not, however. Klauke walked on the floor, and fired her first pass into the chest ofan SMU player. True, the girl was open, but it wasn't a designed play. 
Less than 20 seconds later, Klauke commited a foul, sending a Mustang to the line tor two shots. So much for the warning. 
It wasn't all bad. A minute after entering the Irish lineup, Klaukc took a pass from junior guard Debbie Hensley, drove the left baseline, and canned a layup. 
After another foul and layup, Klauke left the Notre Dame lineup. She returned for the final 46 seconds and made a pair offree throws, after being smacked in the faet: on a double-team. 
See KLAUKE, page 7 
Sony To.pe o.nd Sunshine Promotions Present 
o.n evening with .••. 



ROD STEWART 
Le Grande Tour America and Canada 1981/1982 
WORTH LEAVING HOME FOR!!!! 

Things got out ofhandand very physicalyesterday afternoon as theSouthern Methodist Mustangs decided to take out theirfrustra­tions on the Irish. Several Notre Dame players were injured, arzd coach .14'ary DiStanislao was outraged at the ta£'fics. (Photo by johnMacor) 


,&..... ----=-..;:___ ;:_­
___. _; ---­
The Obser:ver 


~c=>c:lct~=====================M=o~n=da=y=,J=m=uacy==l=8=,1=9=82===pa=~=l=l~ 
Molarity 
S/NC.€ 'rlJU~ /...IWfON l'£~AVIOR D£517WY'£V YOUR HOH£ ,PUNI5HM£NT Sll4LL e>E '"7»£. lrE!a-T OF YOU~ 


Doonesbury 



Simon 
HEY OORT 1 HOW 00 m UK.E 
MY C.OLf CARl ? ', 

I B.ftNISH YQ) FROM CAH/VS ANP CONDEMN 
YOU /o CFF CAHPIJ~ 
/...IF£ IN Tf/E NDRTHE.A,5T f\JE;IqHBo~H OOP 


The Daily Crossword 
I,.~~~~~~::==~~~~~~~~::~~~~~~~ 
<0 1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 1/18/82 All Rights Reserved 
Michael Molinelli 

Campus 



,Jo IJO "' IJHO 't.. /.. COOl{ f"oR NG. i'? WHOL L "JIO HY /..AUNDf?Y ?.?.:> ,.,JVD,., 
k!Ho'L.L VACUUM KY Rti~? YbU CAIJ'T Po "Till~ TlJ HF:/1 

YDU Kt-PW, :li~N, SOMEHoW l fEEL 51ll'ERIOR ?.lOIN& IN THI~ GC>LF cARl. 
lnt~I'S lUITURflL, '&JRf. W£ f\'Rf NC>W fLITI~fS 
I INE 'VE rt>vE[> uP IN TIIf 
w~LD! 
~ ¥0 
~·-~ 
u (  ...  -­ 
,, ·­ 

ACROSS 32 Maintains 1 Light 36 Go astray 5 lraqcoin 37 Otherwise 
10 Hit 39 A Dee 14 Genesis 40 Judy Gar· land movie name 43 Peasant
15 Silly 16 Unadulter· form of a ted speech 
17 Actress 44 Negative from Los votes Angeles 45 Lettuce 
20 Fixed 46 "-a Gre· 
21 Zhivago's clan Urn" girl 47 Mechanical 22 A Boone device 23 Black 48 Extremely 25 Tress 49 Yeats' 27 Amphibian "-and the 30 Religious Swan" 
abbr. 51 Punta del ­
BUT Mm:H... J,JE.'LL BE ABLt:: /0 HAVE (ijiP,L S 
Monday,January 18
IN ouR RoOHS AND EVEJ.,j 
7 p.m. -Film, "Th<· Conversation," Directed by Francis Ford Coppola, 1974, Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art, Sponsored by ND/SMC Communication and Theatre Depart­ment, S I admission 

Television 
Garry Trudeau 
7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9:00p.m. 
Jeb Cashin 
y(J.l HfAN THE 1Jl'PE1\ EC~fl.DII, 
T»E GEt-111\Y > THE cre'me ck /a 
creme :1 TH/5 I~ £XCJTING I 
9:30p.m. !O:OOp.m. RfLM,OURT ~ )~ 
ll:OOp.m.
E!UO! '\' 
11:30p.m.

'~ ' 0 
!2:00a.m. 
12:30 p.m. 
54 Employ 26 Game of 57 Roman chance despot 27 Beat 

Tonight 
16 MASII 22 CBS News 28 joker's Wild 34 The MacNeil/Lehrer Report 46 The: Minnesota Connection 
16 Allin The: Family 22 Family Feud 28 Tic: Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 16 Little House: On The Praric: 22 Mr. Merlin 28 That's lnac:diblc: 34 Great Performances 46 Lester Sumrall Teaching 22 Private: Benjamin 46 Blackwood Brothers 
16 NBC Movic::"Thc: Long Summer of 
George Adams" 22 MASH 28 ABC Monday Night Movie: 
"fantasies" 46 Today With Lester Sumrall 22 House: Calls 22 People Magazine: 34 What's Right with the Right? 
46  jimmy Swaggan Daily  
16  NewsCentc:r 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswat~.:h 28  
34  The Dic:k Cavett Show  
46  Praise: The Lord  
16  Tonight Show  
22  Quin<.·y and Banacek  
28  ABC News Nightlinc:  
34  Captioned ABC News  
28  ABC  Movie:  "Return  of  the  Mod  
Squad"  

46 Monday Night Basketball NCAA 16 Tomorrow Coast To Coast 46 Blackwood Brothers 

59 Water 28 Mountain bottle nymph 63 Tampa's 29 Sharp 
neighbor ridge 66 Tarnish 31 Hairdye 67 Traveler's 33 Elicit 
stopover 34 Religious 68 Cupid superior 69 Framework 35 Impudent 70 Building 37 High in 
material station 71 Drug 38 "-Girls" 39 Pig home 
DOWN 41 Dupe 1 Young girl 42 Idem 2 Lie adja­47 Bugs Bunny 
cent to food 3 Plateau 48 Bordered 4 Coated with 50 Judges 
metal 52 Oar 5 Modern 53 Sailor dance 54 Russian 6 -word (suc-letters 
cinctly) 55 Greek 7 Make fast portico 8 History 56 Heroic poem 9 Backwards: 58 Bone: pref. 
pref. 60 Hair style 10 Resort 61 Fiasco 11 Swelling 62 Freedom 12 Location from re­
A public service 
13 Nuisance straint 18 Pen point 64 Antlered 
announcement from
19 Wild dogs animal 24 Unless, 65 Spelling 
the Observer
in law or honey 

BUT WHAT DOES THE STUDENT UNION RECORD STORE HAVE FOR ME? 
CHEAPER PRICES PRICES ... Save 24-32'o off list prices! MOST CURRENT SINGLES-S6.50 (compare at S8.99 list). Cut-outs ... $2.98 to S5.98 
CONVENIENCE ... The NDSU Record Store is located on the Main floor of LaFortune and is open 10-4 PLUS-ordered albums take 1 week only! 
GREAT SELECTION ... Springsteen, Fogelberg, Moody Blues, Stevie Nicks, Cristopher Cross, Pat Benatar, Journey, and many more. 
ALSO ... recorded and blank tapes available. 
SO...for CHEAPER PRICES, MORE CONVENIENCE, and a GREAT SELECTION stop by the S.U. Record Store today'!! 

r---------------------------------~--------------------------------------------~----------------------~ 
' 
Monday,January 18, 1982-page 12 

~Jlorts 
Irish women fight for win 
Beginning with a free throw at the
line 2 3 times, and for one of the few
By MARK HANNUKSELA 
7:47 mark of the second half, Rom­
times all season, the Irish
Sports Writer 
pula scored 19 consecutive SMU
capitalized. Indeed; Notre Dame 
points. The streak ended when
finished with its best single-gameFor about 30 minutes, it was your 
Marsha Smith canned a I 5-foot jum­
free-throw-shooting percentage ofbasic, normal, everyday blowout. 
per with : I 9 left. 
the season (.783) by nailing 18 ofitsThen things got brutal, almost as 
Until that second-half streak,
brutal as the weather outside. attempts. 
though, Notre Dame did an effective
SMU's Lady Mustangs turned a Three Irish players were perfect 
job of holding Rompola in check,
swarming, trapping zone defense in­from the stripe, including Doug­
limiting her to just 3 of her first J I 
to a slugging, slapping, let-em-know­herty ( 6-6 ), Klauke ( 2-2) and Carrie 
field goal attempts with an agressive
you're-there mess that resulted in Bates ( 4-4 ). 
man-to-man defense. 
eight fouls in the last five minutes, The Irish never trailed in the con­
For the game, SMU shot .433 from
and three wounded Irishmen, in test, although there was one tie, at 
the field ( 26-of-60) and .727 from
Notre Dame's 76-60 women's bas­2-2. A 12-foot jumper by sophomore the foul line ( 8-of-1 I ).
ketball victory yesterday in the ACC. guard Theresa Mullins gave Notre 
NtJtrt:: Dame finished \':ith ";; .64 / 
PoorJenny Klauke, no sooner did Dame a 4-2 lead with nearly two 
shooting percentage from the floor
she return to action after sitting idle minutes gone, and the Irish never (29-of-45).
since the middle of last summer, looked back (although they did look 
SMU won the battle of the boards,
than she gets smacked across the kind of dizzy occasionally), in rol­
28-27.
face on a double-team. The foul was ling to their fifth straight win, and 
IRISH ITEMS -The 60 points
charged to Bobbie Bates, her fifth, in ninth in 12 games. 
scored by SMU were 12 more than
three minutes ofaction. 
the average allowed by Notre t..aura Dougherty, a freshman 
Dame's nation-leading defense,
... it was obvious we 
~ard from Hillsdale, N.J., got ham­
according to last week's NCAA mered twice on a double-team, once 
statistics ... Th~ Irish are also in the across the face, and once on the top were going to win. 
top I 5 in field goal percentage of the head. Then, she got slapped 
defense (fifth) and rebounding mar­across the arm, a minimal shot But things just gin (15th) ... DiStanislao's club is compared to the other two, but it 
allowing opponents to connect on was enough to send her to the foul 
only 36 percent oftheir shots, and is
degenerated there 
line. outrebounding them b.y a 9.4 mar­For one and the bonus. 
gin ... With her I 7 points, Schueth Susan Neville played only eight 
at the end. took over the team scoring lead. She minutes, but it was long enough to 
now has 143 points (two more than join the group of star-gazing Irish. 
Bates), and is averaging 11.9 ppg ... She too was smacked across the face. 
Shari Matvey has added another Needless to say, Irish Coach Mary For the second time this week, 
milestone to an already lengthy list. DiStanislao was less than pleased. freshman Mary Beth Schueth led 
She is the first Irish player every to "That's the kind ofgame you wish Notre Dame in the scoring depart­
score 1,000 points in a career. She you didn't have to get involved in," ment. The Indianapolis native con­
now has 1,035 points in her three­DiStanislao said. "It (the game) just nected on 7-of-9 of her field goal 
year career. lost all semblance oforder in the last attempts, and 3-of-4 free throws, and 10 minutes. We had controlled the finished with I 7 points, one more 
tempo the whole way, and it was ob­than Bates. vious we were going to win. But Dougherty added 14 points, and things just degenerated there at the junior center Shari Matvey, the all­
end. time leading scorer in Notre Dame 
Notre Dame leers pull off surprise 
"I wasn't too happy about Susan history, scored I 0, all in the first half. getting hit," she added, "especially Rhonda Rompola, SMU's leading 
In all, Elliot stopped 51 shots, goals apiece, while Kirt Bjork, Jeff
since she had a broken nose about a scorer with an 18.7 average, was the By MICHAEL OLENIK including 24 in the second period Logan and Mark Doman chipped in.nonth ago. The funny thing is, those game's leading scorer, as she Sports Writer and three' in overtime to keep his single tallies. 
officials ref in the NCAA Tourna­pumped in 25 points on an assort­team in the game. Time after time, Going into the game, Michigan
ment of junk, including running No matter which way you look at the freshman frustrated the swarm­goalie Peter Mason had compiled a ment every year. And they let things 
get out of hand." The physical hooks, scoops and off-balance it, Notre Dame's hockey team is ing Irish attackers by making the goals-against average of2.29-best
beginningto show some pretty good impossible ofany goaltender in the nation. That
SMU team sent Notre Dame to the prayers. 
stuff. By burying Michigan 9-4 on seemingly save. However, probably the most critical average fell by the wayside quickly
Friday night and stealing a 2-2 tie on shot ofthe game eluded him. however, when Poulin flipped a
Saturday, the Irish have run off a With 54 seconds left in the game, rebound into the net just 13 seconds
string of six games in which they





Phelps sparks win 
Irish co-captain and scoring leader into the game.
have lost only once -that being a Dave Poulin stole the puck at the Logan, who assisted on the play,
one-goal defeat in a non-conference game to Chicago-Circle. Michigan blueline, broke in on a summed up what would ring true 
one-on-four break, and backhanded throughout the game. "They are a

with technical fouls 
In each of the e~!.er games, Notre a shot off Elliot's chest and over his good defensive team, but we have
Dame has displayed both winningat­shoulder into the goal for the tying some good skaters and luckily we
:itudes and winning performances,By SKIP DESJARDIN Two successive technical fouls lit 
score. were skating well enough to convert
md each ha-; Coach Lefty Smith very 
Sports Editor a fire under the Irish, and under a 
pleased. This great individual effort came some opportunities into some surprisingly large crowd. including a "I would have to say that we with the Irish shorthanded, as Jim goals."
"My God," Digger Phelps told a contingency ofstudents who ringed Brown was sent offthe ice with 2:05 Goals is right. In fact, the Irish
played very well for the most part,"
reporter in Philadelphia, we could the court in the absence of cold­
left in the game for tripping, and it scored goals even when they
related Smith after Saturday's tie.
end up 2-25." sufferring townspeople. 
typified the team's play as oflate. shouldn't have. After Dan Collard
'For the weekend we had four short­
Well, it's not going to happen that It also must have had an etffect on "We showed great spirit by was whistled off for interference at
.1anded goals and three powerplay
way. Not quite, anyway. Ron Rowan. 
scoring a shorthanded goal when we the I 0:59 mark, Logan and Brown
;cores, and considering we were
Phelps reached into his seemingly The 6-5 freshman guard came off needed it, and I've got to give Dave a promptly scored shorthanded goals
without two ofour most steady per­
endless bag of tricks and came up the bench to score a game-high 13 lot ofcredit," beamed Smith. "I hope less than a minute apart and Notre
formers (Jeff Perry and John Hig­
with an old favorite Saturday to spur points, pull down a couple of we can keep up this level ofplay for Dame found itself with a 3-0 lead at
gins), I have to be happy.
the Irish to their third win of the rebounds, and dish out two assists in the series next week." the first intermission. 
"This was our best series of the
season, a lackluster drubbing of his best perormance to date in an Prior to Poulin's heroics, the Wol­The Wolverines did not die easily
;;eason," concluded the 14 year
Davidson, 59-45. Irish uniform. 
verines had built a 2-1 lead on a pair though, as they rallied for four goals 
The technical foul. "Rowan is a good shooter versus mentor. 
of powerplay goals-one in each of in the middle stanza. Fortunately,
With CCHA leader and third­the first two periods. Michigan was Poulin and Brown notched theirIt was in the bottom of the bag, the zone," said Phelps after the 
ranked Bowling Green on tap next .veekend at the ACC, Notre Dame's not without offense however, as second goals with Logan and
down there with the brooms he game. "I put him in the last seven 
used to help his players prepare for minutes of the Virginia game to let they also had repeated opportunites Rothstein having assists in both.
playing Bill Walton and UCLA. He him taste it -playing before I7,000 :iming could not gave been better. 
throughout the game. However, it Although the Irish retained the
called it back, dusty but none the people and all." o\fter all, Michigan was in third place was Irish goalie Dave Laurion who lead, :\olichigan had seized the worse for wear, from the days when Phelps's grooming paid off, as an before the series and boasted the came up with big saves much in the
he crouched on the sidelines in long injury to guard Dan Duff and the best defense and goaltending in the See HOCKEY, page 9 
manner of Elliot, although he was
hair, sideburns and nehru jackets. academic problems sufferred by country, at least statistically. Un­tested but 31 times.
There were more than seven Tom Sluby thrust Rowan into a key doubtedly, coming away with three Bill Rothstein answered Michi­
minutes gone in the first half, and the role. out of four points can only bolster gan's first goal. 
INSIDE:

Irish were playing the uninspired, "Now that Sluby and Duff are out, Notre Dame's confidence, especially "I was coming out of the cornerdeliberate-to-the-point-of-boring he smells it," Phelps told reporters. considering the way in which they with the puck and although I was at a basketball that had gotten them off "There is no pressure on him. He did it. 
Klaukep.lO

tough angle, I decided to just turnto the worst start for a Notre Dame just goes out there and plays." While Saturday's tie was more in and try to blast one," Rothstein said. 
team in 60 years. This game was no real reason for the Michigan mold of hockey, many "I think he (Elliot) was expecting
The Wildcats were controlling the Irish to take heart, however. observers felt that the Wolverines 
BigTenp.9

the game, on the floor and off the Davidson just is not of the same were lucky to come away without a me to come right in front." An impressive overall perfor­
boards, and Notre Dame showed no calibre as most of the teams ahead loss. And for the most part, they mance on Friday was overshadowed
signs of doing anything to change on the Irish schedule, and they ad­were right. If it wasn't for the in­by some great individual efforts. 
Olympics p. 7

that fact. mittedly played a bad game. credible performance of netminder Poulin and Brown provided most of
Until Phelps got mad. Jon Elliot, the score might very well 
See TECHNICAL, page 9 
the firepower by gathering three
have mirrored Friday's. 





