
, , ,Interest rates -page 6 

an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
Murder accusations 
Williams takes stand in defense 
ATlANTA (AP)-Wayne B. Wil­make public their plans for calling played a role in the slayings. liams took the stand in his own witnesses. "Forgive me, but l need to ask you defense yesterday, saying he was Mrs. Williams had told jurors that this question," Defense Lawyer Al­"St.·ared," and denying that he knew her son was not a homosexual and vin Binder told Mrs. Williams. "Has either of the two young blacks he is said that "deep down in my heart" your son ever acted like a sissy in 
accused of murdt·ring. she docs not believe anyone like him front ofyou?" The 23-year-old black freelance is responsible for the slayings. "Good God, no," she replied. 
photographer, wearing a dark blue Mrs. Williams, who has been bat­Williams has pleaded innocent to suit with no tic, walked to the wit­tling cancer since 1980, also said she murdering Nathaniel Cater, 27, and ness stand immediately after spoke to the mysterious Cheryl jimmy Ray Payne, 21, two of 28 prosecutors finished cross­Johnson, the woman for whom Wil­young blacks whose deaths over a examining his mother, Faye Wil­liams claimed to be searching the 22-momh pt•riod were investigated liams. night he t1rst came to police atten­by a spt:cial police task force. 
Williams' appearance came as tion. Prosecutors claim the woman No arrests have been made in the tt·stimony ncart·d an end at his 9-doesn't exist. .26 otht·r cases, but prosecutors have wet·k-old trial on charges of murder­The defendant's mother, who tes­presented evidence in I 0 additional 
ing two of the 28 young btacks tified as the trial entered its ninth slayings in an attempt to show a pat­whose slayings outraged the nation. week, said her only child had never tern that may include the Cater and 
Speculation had abounded at the been in a tistfight and was not a Payne deaths. sensational trial as to whether Wil­homosexual. Prosecutors contend Earlier yesterday, Superior Court liams would tc:stil)·. Because ofa gag Williams has a violent temper and Judge Clarence Cooper barred 
order. neither side was allowed to that sexual preference may have defense lawyers from introducing testimony about a man the attorneys described as a former suspect in the · slayings. 
Mrs. Williams, a 64-ycar-old retired teacher who was 4 I when Williams was born, called her son 
Poets Haas, Pinsky 

express own styles 
"our miracle child" and a "I00 per­cent all American boy."
works, and has chosen subjects at
By TIM PETIERS 
She said she had never seen or
times simply to change his style. more con ued last night as
News Stuff 
heard of any of the .28 slaying vic­
Even so, he conceeds that most of Hass am/ Robert Pinsky read poetry to a full hoase at the Library•
tims.
his subjects select him. Auditorium.(photo by Rachel Blount) The Sophomore Literary Festival Pinsky read two new poems and prt·sented a contrast of different selections of his book An Explana­
Despite cuts
styles of poetry to a capacity crowd tion ofAmerica, a winner of many in the Library Auditorium last night. poetry awards. The work is Robt·rt Haas and Robert Pinsky, both addressed to his daughter. Pinsky's of whom critics place among the powerful reading provided an added 


Area Agencies offer internships 
foremost poets of this generation, dimension to the poems. 
read selections from their work. Pinsky is described as a poet and a By SONYA STINSON did comment on a past controversy which involved Haas read some of his un­critic, but he docs not sec himselfas News Staff some Notre Dame students working with the South 
published poetry as well as selec­a critic. He is the author of The Bend Police Dcpanmcnt. tions from his book Praise, a Situation ofPoetry, a collection of South Bend agencies and institutions arc still eager to "Several years ago, in a program sponsored by anoth­critically acclaimed volume of his poetic ideas and judgments. He docs accommodate Notre Dame students in the Sociology er department, some pre-law students who were in­
pot·ms. A native to the San Fransisco not enjoy criticism, though, and 
Dcpanmcnt's internship program, despite the cuts in terested in law enforcement went on rounds with the Bay area, Haas uses his surroundings docs not plan any funhcr such their budgets by the Reagan administration, said Prof. police," Lamanna said. "Later a number of stories in his poems, with direct references works. Richard Lamanna, director of the program. criticizing the police depanment appeared in the press. 
to people and places. His readings Haas had only one piece ofadvice 
"A lot of organizations arc happy to have students These reports were based on information from the stu­were marked by a conversational for young poets, and that to come and work with them," Lamanna said. "We still dents who were interning with the department."
was presentation. write. Pinsky believes that aspiring could place far more students than we have." According to Lamanna, there were two basic Haas views each of his poems as poets should seek out experienced Lamanna said he did not think the internship program problems with the incident. First of all, he said, the individuals. He docs not believe that poets, stating that there arc some ex­
will be adversely affected by the budget cuts, explain­charges against the police department were not well any single category should typify his cellent ones here at Notre Dame. ing that the number of students is not so great that the founded. Secondly, the incident raised the issue of et­agencies could not accommodate them. hics. "The students doing internships with the organiza­
tions shouldn't be there under false pretenses. When
pa~;~~ ~:!7/: TUESDAYlrm•r=
Student Senate approves 
be in terms ofthc things like that happen," Lamanna said, "agencies are reluctant to take students. It's not that we don't expect
turmoil that oc-M{ff/f#$~0 cus 
curs when an W~'Mt.iii%.. students to be frank and honest in their evaluations. But
Strake, fans for office 
agency's budget they arc not in the business of publicizing the informa­
is cut," he said. .tion they gather. Their point is to learn from the ex­By MICHELE DIETZ 80 percent. The remaining 20 per­"It is more a problem associated with turnover than one perience," he commented. StaffReporter cent will be allocated by Student Ac­of not being able to accommodate us." Another ethical concern is that the students respect 
tivities and Volunteer Services. The A few agencies were unable to manage an internship the privacy of the people they deal with. "When people 
Steve Strakc was formally vott:d chairperson of the committee will this semester because ofchanges in personnel, Laman­come in with personal problems and you don't respect Studt:nt Union Director and Mike now be the Student Government na said. "But they insisted that we contact them in the their confidence, yo·u can do a lot ofdamage, both to the Jans Student Union Comptrollt:r for Treasurer instead of the Student fall because they expect a change for the better," he person and to the agency," Lamanna said. "Fortunately, the 1982-83 year in a unanimous ap­Body Vice-President. added. most ofour kids arc mature and sensible enough to un­proval by the Studt:nt Scnatt: in last In other Senate business, Claire The internship is a thrcc-crt:dit course which is open derstand that." night's St·nate mt•cting. Padgett, student senate member, to students with an interest in community service. A The internship can be a stepping stone to a job or to 
Strakt:, a junior from Dillion llall, rt:ported on the recent turnout for sociology major is not required. But Lamanna ex­advanced college work. "In any case it looks very good is prest·ntly the Student Union Social the Security Program presented in plained, "We do prefer that students have had some on the resume," Lamanna smilt:d. Commissiont:r. Jans, who currt:ntly all womcns' halls. "The turnout was background in what they arc doing." Senior government major David Loughlin, for ex­serves as St·rvices Commission prt·tty poor," Padgett said. "There is Students in the program spend six hours per week at ample, is doing research with the South Bend Comptroller, is a junior from Gra<.·c a lack of concern the students show one of many service agencies in the community. At the Rcdevelopmt.·nt committt:e. "We arc putting together a Hall. Both will takt: offin· April I. toward security." She added that t:nd of the semester they submit a rt:port of their ex­mortgage bond at a low pcrn·ntage rate to t:ncouragc 
Ac<.·ording to tht: Student Govern­there will be a follow-up movie on perience. people to buy homes," Loughlin explained. "Since I ment Constitution, the Student llni· rape af'tt:r spring break which "will Placement is geared toward the special interests of want to go into urban planning, I hop<: to pick up somt: on Stt·t·ring Committee appoints the hopefully get more people con­the students, Lamanna said. "We try to t1nd out what contacts through this <:xpcrience and to learn how Student Union Dirt:ctor and Comp­cerned about safety." kind of cxpericnct• the student wants and find a niche govnnmelll and city planning work." troller. The decision must bt: then Senate Mcmbt:r Tricia Hiler is for him. Our main concern is that the student can protlt approved by tht· Student Senate. planning a Waste Week to take place from the cxpt:ricnce." "Most of those who participate tind it a very valuabk 
Also approved was an Amend· March 2') through April 2. This The list ofagencies where students have interned in­experience," Lamanna ~aid. "Some studt.'nts who 
ment to tht· Constitution whh.:h in­program is planned to "cut costs in cludes the Common Council, the city legislative body; started out with the program art: working in tht: com· volves tht• aliO<:ation of student fees the Dining I tails, to work with the Southho:d Restorations, a historical preservation munity now." money and tht: composition of the World Hunger Coalition in collect­agt:ncy; St. Joseph and Memorial hos t pitals; the Head Meanwhile, he anticipates no problems with placing Committee on the Budget Tht· ing food and milk for the net:dy. and Start program; and the Family and Children's Center. interns in the future. "We haven't placed students with Senate whkh previously allocated to physically show how much stu­Although Lamanna said that most of the internships any agencies that arc going out of business," he said. 
all studt:nt fu~u~. will now allocate dents waste," Hiler said. work out well for both the students and the agencies, he "We havt: g<>ttcn tremendous cooperation." 

Tuesday, February 23, 1982-page 2

ewsBrie/§ 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
A week-long boycott of South African Airways by Australian unions -to protest the death in detention of a trade unionist -will delay about 900 passengers, an airlines spokesman said yesterday. The Australian Congress ofTrade Unions declared it would not handle South African Airways flights this week because of the death ofDr. Neil Aggett, found hanged in his jail cell in Johannes­burg Feb. 5. Aggett, a white organizer for a black trade union, was detained in November without charge. -AP 
Train robberies have become so frequent in China's Sichuan Province that the Communist Party has assigned armed guards to escort all important shipments along the ChengduChungk­ing railroad, the English-language China News reported yesterday. The newspaper, quoting a confidential report by the party's central committee, said farmers living along the route were blamed for the majority of robberies. The China News said_the report also impl­icated railroad personnel and transportation workers in the the crimes. -AP 
A Hong Kong communist newspaper reported yesterday that China welcomes Taiwan industrialists and businessmen to participate in offshore oil exploration off the China coast. The Chinese-language New Evening Post in a dispatch from Peking said that since Taiwan is part of China, "special privileges" should be accorded to investors from Taiwan. It did not elaborate. 
Last week, China announced that it invited 46 oil companies from t 12 
countries to bid for exploration ofoffshore acreage. Taiwan has had 
a separate Nationalist government since the Communists came to 
power on the mainland in 1949. It has resisted all unification 
overtures from the mainland. -AP 
A coal minerwas killed when a shaft caved in at Pinnacle Mine, about 10 miles northeast of Price, Utah, at the top of Dead Man's Canyon, authorities said. Carbon County Sheriff Ralph Horsley said Tony Pappas, 25. ofKenilworth, Utah, was killed in the accident about 4:40 p.m. Sunday. No other miners were injured. Sunday reportedly was a non-production day for the medium-sized, non­union mine operated by Tower Resources Inc. -AP 
Box tops, trading stamps and coupons sound 
more suited to the supermarket than the sky, but they are among the latest weapons being used by airlines in the war to win passengers. Republic Airlines has joined forces with the Ralston Purina Co. to offer free trips to children who send in proof-of-purchase seals from cereal boxes. Air Florida is giving out S&H Green Stamps. New York Air has a "Valentine Sweetheart" plan which lets two people travel for the price of one -plus a Valentine card. And Pan American World Airways is winding up a "two-for-one" coupon deal. Air travel is down because of the recession and some consumer reluctance to plan flights in the aftermath ofthe controllers' strike. Major carriers also have been hurt by the growth of new airlines which opened or expanded in the wake of deregulation. To boost travel, the airlines have turned to fare cuts on popular routes, new marketing tech­niques and elaborate advertising programs. Republic, based in Min­neapolis,has launched a $20 million ad campaign, which includes its first national effort on network TV. Redmond Tyler, Republic's public relations director, also said yesterday the company was gearing up for increased promotion of its box-top offer. Any child, ages 2 to 16, who sends in five seals from Chex or Honey Bran cereal can fly free on Republic, anywhere in tht; United States where the carrier operates. Each child must be accompanied by a fare-paying adult. Seals must be mailed before Aug. 1 5 and flights must be taken before Nov. 15. -2AP 
A taxi driver in Baltimore grabbed his own pistol and killed two passengers who tried to rob him at gunpoint, police said. joseph Word, 49, was driving the two men through Clifton Park on Sunday night when the passenger in the rear pulled out a handgun and put it to his neck, demanding cash, said Officer Robert Gaines. Word retrieved a .32-caliber Saturday night special from between his legs and fired six or seven shots, killing both men, Gaines said . ...:... 
AP 
A 16-year-old boy who apparently didn't have the Sl 0 fare for a ride home stole a bus in Manhattan and sideswiped a car a few blocks away, police said. William Robertson of Mid­dletown, N.Y. allegedly took a Short Line bus from the Port Authority Bus Terminal parking lot near Time Square on Saturday morning. But he got only about 13 blocks. The police said Robertson apparently took the bus because he did not have the Ill0 for a 70-mile trip home. Robertson was charged with grand larceny of a bus and pos­session ofstolen property, police said. -AP 
Cloudy with a slight chance of morning rain. High in the upper 30s and low 40s. Rainy and cool tonight and tomorrow. Low tonight in the mid 30s. High tomorrow in the mid and upper 30s. Probability of rain 20 percent today and 80 percent tonight. -AP 
==IheDbseaer== 
Founded November 3, 1966 

Friends and family accom­pany the casket ofa member of the civilian defense who was recently killed while fighting in the village ofSan Sebastian, E I Salvador. 


AP Photo File 

A Salvadorian soldier stands with his West German-made G-3 rifle while patroling near this regina/ center. 
American singer Barry White, center, appeared with Rio dejaniero Maorjulio Coutinho, second right, during the city's official carnival Ball last Saturday night. White is the guest ofhonor at this year's 

Carnival. 

Design Editor................. Suzanna La Croix Design Assistants ................... Kay HoUand Troy Illig Layout Staff..................................joe Walsh Jay Fayette Typesetters .......................... Stephen Brown Steve Burg News Editor.....................Cathy Domanico Copy Editors .......................... Valerie Evans Sports Copy Editor .................. Pete Manzo Typist .................................... } ohn McCarthy ND Day Editor................. Karen McMahon SMC Day Editor ................. } ulia Trimarchi AdDesign ....................................John & Co. B & F ...................... Blushing, Rushing Ryan Photographer ..................................... Rachel Guest Appearances recruiting goalie, see 
moose run, grandfather clock 

Applications tor next year's 
~~CID!ll rn&illB~£9!JQJ1~ 
may be picked up in the Student ~~Activities Office in LaFortune ~A 


They must be returned by 5:00pm on Fri., l-eb.l6 
-

Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief..............................}oiln McGrath 
Executive News Editor................. ....... Kelli Flint Sports Editor.............................. Skip Desjardin 
The Observer 1s ·an independent newspaper published by the students of the News Editor............................. David Rickabaugh Photo Editor........................................ John Macor University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily SMC Executive Editor...........Mary Agnes Carey Editorials Editor.............. .......,"Ilthony Walton reflect the .policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report­SMC News Editor......................Cathy Domanico Features Editor ................ , ........Gregory Swiercz 
ed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views Department Managers of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and 
Business Manager .........................Rich Coppola Production Manager...................Michael Monk 
the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, iii encounged. 
Controller.............................................]oe Mulflur Circulation Manager .............Tom MacLennan Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owen Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakle)'
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

J 
J 
j 
Tuesday, February 2 3, 1982 -page 3
The Observer 
Inciting lynching 

Army new-spaper accuses W alesa 
WARSAW, Poland (AP) -The trmy newspaper, in a sharp attack ·esterday on the suspended labor mlon Solidarity, accused Lech X'alesa of joining other Solidarity eaders in calling for the lynching of :::ommunist Party officials. 
The official press has generally Jvoided criticizing Walesa by name, reflecting the martial law govern­ment's stand that Walcsa was out­maneuvered by radicals and lost control of the labor movement. 
But the newspaper Zolnierz Wol­nosct claimed Walesa went along with other leaders in a December meeting that called for hanging some Communist Party officials. 
In another development, the offi­cial news agency PAP reported the cases of four anti-Soviet dissident leaders who had advised Solidarity have been transferred from civilian courts to military tribunals. They are charged with treasonous activities. 
The Zolnierz Wolnosci commen­tary ran two days before the party's policy-setting Central Committee convenes its first meeting since the military Dec. 13. 
The Central Committee congress convening tomorrow is unprece­dented in the Soviet bloc in that it occurs at a time when the military and not the party holds authority. It to be followed by a weekend meeting of Parliament to hear proposals for special tribunals to try former party officials and possibly interned Solidarity leaders. 

The army newspaper said that at a Solidarity leadership meeting Dec. 3 in Radom, a "scenario for a crime" was set. The meeting followed security forces' storming of a firefighters school to end a cadets' occupation. 
"The rash Jaworski, Rulewski with fire in his eyes, concreteJurczak and scoffing Walesa -this time they were all unanimous: the gallows have to be built," the paper said. 
The references were to union leadt;,rs Seweryn Jaworski, Jan Rulcwski and Marian Jurczyk. Ruiew opposed Walesa last summer when Solidarity held its first nationwide convention. 
'New federalism' 

Governors dispute details ofpolicy 

WASIIINGTON (AP) Gover­nors and county officials went to the White House yesterday to tell Presi­dent Reagan that they sU'l>port the principlt: -but not all the details ­of his "new federalism" proposal. 
Both groups were determined, however, to make clear their wil­lingness to negotiate all points ofdif­ference. 
Reagan scheduled separate sessions yesterday with delegates of the National Governors' Association and the National Association of Counties. 
Discussions of "new federalism" and the impact ofRt·agan's proposed budget for the next fiscal year dominated the annual Washington conferences of the governors and county ollkials. 
Tht• two biggest points of dispute appean·d to be the questions of whl·tht·r states or the federal government would assume respon­sibility for basic welfare programs and how "nt:w federalism" would be financed. 
"We must not, we cannot, accept 
a program which would leave us in 
1991 or any date foreseeable with 
any doubts about our capacity to be 
a just society," Gov. Richard Snelling 
of Vermont, a Republican and chair­
man of the governors' association, 
told the meeting of county officials. 
Snelling and many other gover­
nors were concerned that under the 
Reagan plan, the trust fund es­
tablished to finance the transfer of 
43 federal programs to state and lo­
cal control would be phased out in 
1991. 
There also was unanimous op­
position among the governors to 
Reagan's plan to cut another $ I 0 bil­
lion in state and local aid from the 
federal budget for fiscal 1983, which 
begins Oct. I. 
Under the Reagan plan, the federal 
government would take over 
Medicaid, while the states would 
assume responsibility for the basic 
welfare programs -Aid to Families 
with Dependent Children and food stamps. 
Both the governors and county of­ficials have long favored federal as­sumption ofwelfare. 
The county officials reiterated that position yesterday and said the funds should come from general tax revenues rather than federal excise taxes, as Reagan has proposed. 
During a closed session to discuss their position, the governors en­dorsed federal assumption of Medicaid and said, "the AFDC-food stamp portion of the original 

proposal is deferred for further 
negotiations."  
Although  rejecting  the  ad­ 
ministration's  appeal  that  they  
separate  "new  federalism"  from  

budget issues, the governors agreed Sunday to give serious consideration 'to the program -even if not exactly on Reagan's terms. 
Deputy White House Press Secretary Larry Speakes said the White House had been pleased with tbe governors' response Sunday. 
.. 

Aircraftdesign saves lives in crash landing 
after slamming down at 3:30p.m. on the frozen Scituate Reservoir in heavily wooded western Rhode Is­land. 
Nine passengers and the two crewmen scrambled out ofthe plane before it exploded in flames. They were taken by ambulance to Providence hospitals. One passen­ger was released yesterday, seven were listed in satisfactory condition and the ninth was in good condition. 
Pilot Thomas Prinster, 36, of 
See AIRCRAFT, page 4 

SMCClassof85 elects officers 
Yesterday 53 percent of the Freshman Class of Saint Mary's College voted in a runoff elec­tion for class officers. The win­ning ticket included Cara Hageman as president, Marsha Bonich as vice-president, Helen Lucaitis as secretary and Mary 
Ann Potter as treasurer. 


ent 
SUNDAY EVENING LECTURE SERIES CONTEMPORARY MORAL ISSUES Rev. Edward Malloy, CSC 
Feb. 28: Issues ofLife andDeath, I: Abortion, Infanticide, Euthanasia March 7: Issues ofLife andDeath, II: War &Peace, Crime & Punishment March 21: Sexuality andFamily Life 
March 28: Mora/Responsibility: Addictions & Compulsions 
There will be a discussion period following each lecture. 
Time: 8:00PM Place: Downstairs in the Crypt 
SCITUATE, R.I. ( AP) -A com­muter plane which caught tire and crash-landed on a frozen reservoir was designed for "bush flying," which could explain why 9 ofthe 12 people aboard escaped serious in­jury, an airline spokesman said yes­terday. 
"I think, as a pilot, that having that kind of aircraft under me would be perhaps the best defense to that sort of severe emergency," said Barry Wilson, a spokesman and pilot for Pilgrim Airlines in Groton, Conn. 
One of the I 0 passengers was killed; the pilot and co-pilot suffered severe burns. 
The plane that caught fire Sunday and was forced down en route from Groton to Boston was an 18-seat DeHavilland Twin Otter turboprop. 
The National Transportation Safety Board, assisted by the Federal Aviation Administration, the airline, the plane's manufacturer and others, began an investigation yesterday. Acting NTSB chairmanJames D. Bur­nett Jr., who said the investigation could take months, declined to spec­ulate on possible causes. 
Passenger Loretta Stanczak, in her 
SOs, of Manchester, N.H., died inside 
the blazing plane, which broke apart 

Warren Beat~y stopped by Lyons Hall on Monday after a jog around St. Mary's Lake to help c:mnpaign for candidates for ball offices.(photo by Rachel Blount)
.. 


The Observer Tuesday, February 23, 1982 -page 4 




DollyPartoncancels tour due tosurgery 
LOS ANGELES (AP')-Singer Dol­ly Parton is canceling appearances in Indiana, Ohio and Texas following emergency gynecological surgery. 
Her physician is recommening up to six weeks of "complete rest" for the country music star, said her spokeswoman, Beverly Magid. 
The 36-year-old singer canceled more than a month's worth of con­certs because of the surgery, Magid said yesterday. She would not dis­dose the nature ofthe star's surgery. 
I ~ 
r • 
Parton was to appear at the Hous­ton Livestock and Rodeo Show, at the Holiday Star Theatre in Merril­lville, Ind., and at the Front Row Theatre in Cleveland, Ohio. 
Instead, she will take her 
skyscraper of drinking glasses.(pboto by Rachel Blount) 
continuedfrom page 3
Quayle comments 
North Kingstown, R.I., and copilot Lyle Hogg, 27, of Groton, were in

Firing violates first atnendtnent 
INDIANAPOUS (AP) -U.S. Sen. Dan Quayle says the dismissal of three DePauw University students from the campus radio station last Wednesday for reporting on an "off 
the record meeting" may be violat­ing their First Amendment rights. 
The students -Jeremy Heiple, Doug Page and Dave Fehling -were working for university radio station WGRE when they aired a three­n\inute news story about the meeting in which the faculty voted 10 give Quayle an honorary doctor <>flaw degree. 
University President Richard F. Rosser sa.id he told students prior to the meeting that they were not to report on it, but they did anyway. 
.ast Wednesday, they. were dis­
•nissed from their jobs at the radio ,ration. 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods. The Observer 1s published by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Marys Col­lege SubscnptiOns may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnling The Observer P 0 Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
critical condition yesterday in Rhode Island Hospital with severe"From the facts I have been given, Robert Miller. 
burns. 
i~ appears that this incident and the "Therefore, may I specifically re­Grant Reynolds, 16, of Anaheim,
subsequent personnel actions will at quest that you consider taking steps 
Calif., said the fire began in the cock­the least have a chilling effect or to reinstate those involved without pit, which is open and visible to pas­constitute an actual infringement of retribution so they might continue sengers. Before the plane was set freedom ofthe press," Quayle said in to participate in the education down, he said, some of the horrified a letter to Roster, station manager process as active journalists at passengers used a squash racket to Kenneth Owen and faculty adviser ' DePauw," he said. 
smash out three windows. as smoke 
filled the cabin. The fire appeared to have started



Courtindicts mayor 
underneath the cockpit's control panel after ice formed over the windshield and the windshield

on extortion charges 
wipers failed to operate, said Dr. 
ROCKPORT, In. (AP) -Mayor Ferman Yearby as indicted yester­day on federal charges of extortion and obstruction ofjustice in connec­tion with rezoning case in the south­ern Indiana community. 
Also named in the indictment, released before U.S. District Judge James E. Noland, is Richard A. Wet­herill, a Rockport lawyer. 
In the six-count indiCtment, Yearby and Wetherill are alleged to have onpired and attempted o ex­tort $3,000 from an Owensboro, Ky. businessman who was buying property in Spencer County and seeking to have it rezoned. 
Wetherill and Yearby, who is also Spencer County Republican Chair­man, are also charged with trying to persuade the busiman, Milton Dale 
Ziegfried Kra, 51. a passenger and Buskill, ~o lie to a federal grand jurng to the indictment. 
Buskill, a terminal manager ar­ranged to buy a piece ofproperty on false contracts and tried to have it rezoned to locate his busines there. 
He then hired Wetherill as his lawyer. 
The government claims Wetherill and the mayor caused Buskill to believe that Yearby, because of his position in the community, could in­fluence Spencer County Area Plan Commission to rezone Buskill's property if Buskill gave him $3,000. 
The indictment describes meetings Yearby and Wetherill had with Buskill which ended in Oc­tober 1981 with Buskill paying $3,000 to the mayor and S300 to Wetherill. 
physician's recommendation of "complete rest away from work and other strenuous chores for at least four to six weeks," Magid said. 
The doctor was not identified, but 
Magid said the surgery was per­
formed last week at St. John's Hospi­
tal in Santa Monica. 
"I believe she was admitted on 
Monday, Feb. 15 and left Tuesday or 
Wednesday," Magid said. 
She will recuperate here and not 
at her home near Nashville, Tenn., 
Magid said. 
Parton starred in the film "9 to 5" 
with Jane Fonda and comedian Uly 
Tomlin and had just finished filming 
"The Best Little Whorehouse in 
Texas" in which she plays opposite 
actor Burt Reynolds. 
....Aircraft 
physician from New Haven, Conn. 
.....the pilots stayed fast.. .it was a very brilliant and smooth landing," said Kra. 
Wilson said the DeHavilland, made by an Ontario company ofthe same name, was developed in the early 1960s "as a bush plane for the wilds ofCanada and Alaska." 
He said Pilgrim Airlines was the first commercial airline to use the plane, partly "because of its terrific ability to take off and land on short unimproved dirt roads and fields." 
The pilots decided to put down "on the ice" after concluding they couldn't make it to Green State Air­port in Warwick, R.I., about 11 miles southeast ofthe reservoir, said Tom­my Shortall, assistant director of operations at the airport. 



The flying boat Spruce Goose is gingerly edged across the Los Angeles harbor to its new borne, a huge aluminum dome where it will be on public display along with the luxury liner Queen 
Mary.(APphoto)
TEACHERS WANTED 
Positions available for those with BS 
There will be a mandatory meeting for all 
or graduate degree in Math, Phy~~ics, 

COPY EDITORS 
Chemistry or Engineering (L'.S. 
Teaching Experience not required! 
tonight

$19,900-21 ,600 to start, increas­
Citizen under a.ge 
ing to $27,200-40,350 within four
29) to teach college and 
at 6:30pm in the
years.

graduate level courses at the Navy's Nuclear Power School 
Observer Office. 

CALL (317) 269-6197 
in Orlando, Fla. 
OR 1-800-382-9404 
1 The Sophomore Literary Festival Presents I



r-------------------------,
I I 
1 Playwrite Megan Terry I 
I 
ITODAY I 1 2:30pm--Workshop in Library Lounge I 
See cam pus reps: 3-4 March I 8:00pm--Production of three Megan I I Terry plays and question-and-answer 1I oeriod to follow inLaFortnnf>Ballroom~ 
~------------------~-------­
The Observer Tuesday, l<'ebruary 23, 1982-page 5 
Due process violated 

Court dism.isses espionage case 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The U.S. Court of Military Appeals ordered yeMnday the dismissal of the espionage case against .2nd Lt. Chris­toper Cooke on ground that the Air force impropnly extracted his "confession" about conveying sn·rets to the Soviet l!nion. 
On a 2-1 vote, the appeals panel held that Cooke's right to due process was violated. The court ruled that the Air Force must live up to its original promise not to prosecute him if he ti.tllv disclosed his dealings with the Soviets. 
As it happened, wrote Judge Al­bert flett·her in the majority opinion, .. Military authorities ac­4uirnl a confession from petitioner as to his involvement in these of­fenses." 
The court particularly assaikd the conduct of Brig. <ien. Claude Teagarden, the stall' judge advocate, or chidt·mmsel, for the Strategic Air Command. "A failure to meet the 
minimum standard of professional conduct is indisputable in this case," wrote fletcher. 
The court directed the trial judge, Lt. Col David Orser, to dismiss all the charges against Cooke, including three counts of espionage and I I counts of violating Air Force regula­tions. In military law, the Court of Military Appeals is the final tribunal. 
Cooke, 26, was released within hours from the Army stockade at nearby Fort Meade, Md., but was not available for comment. Air Force of­tkials reserved a decision on his im­mediatt· future, including the possibility ofdischarge. 
A possibility rt·mained that Cooke might be prosecuted l(>r espionage by the Justice Departmt·nt in a federal district court. Department spokesman Tom DeCair said no decision had been made on that question. 
But .Justice Departmem officials, speaking privately, said last year that the Air Force's handling of the prosecution had so tainted the case 
Supreme court rejects newspapers' challenge 
WASHINGTON (AP) The Supreme Court yestnday rejected a nt·wspaper chalknge to a California court's exclusion of the press and public from jury selection in a mur­der GISt'. 
The action, over the dissents of 
thn..·t· justices. came in the latest 
battk waged by the news media 
over courtroom access during 
niminal proceedings. 
The high court already has said it 
will decidt· in a Massachusetts case 
whether the public and press can be 
c:xduded from all criminal trials 
whik young victims of sex crimes 
are testit}•ing. 
Tht·court closing at iss t ue yester­day t·ame unda a Calif(Jrnia trial judgt·'s apparent interpretation of a 'tate Supremt· Court polit'y. The judge 'aid that policy requires such do~t·d-door procn·dings during part of jury selections in trials where death is a possible penalty. 
In a busy day I(Jllowing a four­week recess, the high court also: 
moved further into tht• computer agt· hy allowing a deaf lawyer to use an daboratt· vidt·o-display system during oral arguments this spring. lise of the device, which will allow tht· lawyer to respond w the IUSticc:s' quc:stons, will be a t1rst in tht· court's I92-year history. 
lkjt·cted an appeal by Elizabeth Eagkton Wdgand, niece of Sen. Thomas Eagkton, stemming from an extortion plot involving t:tlse claims that the .\1issouri Democrat is bist·xual. 
Refust·d to revive a challenge by Mobil Oil Co. to U.S. Stt·d Corp.'s S6..'1 bllion takeover last month of Marathon Oil. 
In the jury sekction case, the nlllrt turned away an appeal by Calii(Jrnia newspapns aimed at get­ting the high court to study anew the public's right to attend criminal tri­als. 
The newspapers objected when inl(lflned that the questioning of prospective jurors would be closed in the San Diego trial of three men charged with murdering a deputy sheriffafter a bank robbery in Norco, Calif 
Lawyers t(Jr The Sun Diego Union and two Riverside papers, The . Horning Press-Enterprise and The Evening Press Enterprise, argued that the exclusion was unconstitu­tional. 
"I'm quite confident we'll be back," said james D. Ward, lawyer t(Jr the two Riverside papers, after the: high court acted. He said he was "disappointed, of course" that the justices refused to decide the issue at this time. 
The: trial judge said the exclusion of the press and puhli<; was mandated by a I 980 California Supreme Court ruling. 
But Ward says the state's highest court meant only that the potential jurors would have to bt· 4uestioned in open court out of earshot of one 
another _ and not behind dosed . doors. Lawyers t(Jr the San Diego County Superior Court said they generally agreed with that inter­pretation. However, a state appeals court up­hdd the San Diego judge's exclusion decision hut said a transcript would have to he made public as soon as the "public part" of the trial -wit­ness testimony -began.The California Supreme Court refused to hear the nt·wspapers' ap· 
peal last july 29, and closed door jury selection ran ti·omJuly through
Decembe t r. The nt·wspapcrs argued that a 
l 980 Supreme Court decision in a key case called Richmond Newspapers vs. Virginia should take precedence over the California 
policy. 
The supreme Court said in that 

case that the public and press have a 
constitutional right, under the First 
Amendment, to attend criminal tri­
als even when defendants object. 
"The...examination ofprospective jurors has been considered a public and integral part ofthe complete tri­a!," lawyers for the California 
newspapers said. "The judicial process would be subject to 
suspicion and doubts cast on its ability to function as the disciplinary arm of society if the trier of fact is 
chosen in secret." 
' I • • F 

that it would be impossible to prosecute Cooke in a civilian court. 
Cooke himsc:lf was not allowed to take phone calls from reporters hdore his release. His mother, Mrs. Richard Cooke of Richmond, Va., described her son as "shocked" by the news. "Of course, we're verv happy. I'm just thankful that men ~f integrity were around when we needed them." She said sht: had no idt·a what hc:r son intended to do upon his release. 
Cooke's chief attorney, F. Lee Bailey, was said by his secrt·tary to be unavailable on a boat in the Atlan­tic Ocean yesterday. Both of his other attorneys, Kenneth Fishman and Air Force Capt. Francis Pedrotty, were also unavailable. 
Cooke's trial never got to the evidence the Air Force had accum­ulated to buttress its contention that on three occasions he conveyed dassified information to Soviet otl1­cials and that he violated Air Force regulations by failing to report I I difterent contacts, most of them tdephone calls to the Soviet embas­sy. 
Instead, the proceedings t(Kused on Cooke's petition for dismissal on ground of the promise of immunity allegedly made by Teagarden. 

Oversupply of oil 

Gasprices decrease in Indiana 
• ash weOnesOay seRvices • 
SacRab heaRt ChURCh 
11:30 am----R€V. thomas kmq, esc 
5:00 pm------R€V. €bwaRb mauoy, esc (Pl€as€ not€ tim€ chanq€ rRom 5:15) 
Pl€as€ Ch€Ck BUll€tln BOC\Rb5 roR tJm€5 or mas5€5 1n boRm5. 
an 
campus
• miniStry .,•
r. S I
• 

CHICAGO ( AP) -Gasoline costs less in northern Indiana and Illinois 
than it did a year agoaccording to the AAA-Chicago Motor Club. In Indiana, self-service prices dropped more: than one penny pc:r gallon in the last two weeks, and as 
much as 8.6 cents a gallon from a year ago. 
. "Prices arc down chiefly because 
there's an oversupply of gasoline in the American market resulting from the worldwide glut of oil," says 
Jonathan Lehrer, a spokesman for the motor dub. '.'Greater conservation measures 
by American motorists including the increase of fuel etl1cient vehicles on the streets" also helped bring prices down, Lehrer says. 
The dub's latest survey shows full-service gasoline prices fell about .6 cents per gallon in the last two 
weeks. About -40 percent of the dealers 
surveyed in Indiana, Cook County and southern Illinois said they have lowered prices. 
Prices ranged from $1.138 a gal­Ion t(Jr regular self-serve to $1.7.30 for ti.lll service unleaded premium. 
Gas at northern Indiana's self 
serve pumps averaged S1.2.')8 per gallon for regular, 1..3 cents less than two weeks ago and 8.6 cents less 
than 198 I. 
The cost of unleaded regular gas 
•::~ 

at selt:serve pumps averaged $1..30 per gallon, a drop of 1.4 cents in the last two weeks and 7.6 cents from last year. 
Unleaded premium cost $1.410 on the average, unchanged from two weeks ago but 6.8 cents lower than last year. 
In northern Indiana, the full 
service prices tor a gallon of regular 
gas averaged SI. 41 7, a drop of . 4 
cents in the last two weeks and 1.4 
cents in the last year. 
At the full serve pumps. the price 
of unleaded regular was $1.468 on 
the average, a .3-cent drop in the 
past two weeks and an .8-cent drop 
over last year. Unleaded premium 
gas was priced at S I. '524 a gallon, 
down .2 cents from two weeks ago 
and I.3 cents from this time last 
year. 
In Cook County Illinois, the: average price of full service regular gas dropped 1..~ cents from two weeks ago and S. 7 cents from last year, t(Jr an average price of S 1.-iOS. 
Other full service prices in Cook County were: unleaded regular, 51.467, a .9-cent drop from two weeks ago and a 4.8-cent drop from last year; and unleaded premium, 
SI.SS8, down .9 cents in two weeks and I.9 cents since last year. The county's self-serve prices were: S1.267 for regular, a drop of 
1.2 cents in two weeks and I I. I cents in one year; Sl._3jj for un­leaded regular, down one cent from two weeks ago and I I. I cents from a year ago; and J 1.480 for unleaded premium, a drop of I. I cents in two weeks and 4. 7 cents sim:c: this time last year. 

ASK THEM WHY 

Ask Peace Corps volunteers why they travel to Africa, Asia and Latin America to work with farm~rs, teachers, and trades people. Ask VISTA volunteers why they work for a year organizing poor people in their American neighborhoods . They'll probably say they want to travel, help people, see 
new places and meet different people. Ask someone who's 
been there. 
Register Now at the Placement 
Bureau for Interview: 


Economic Update 
The Fed reported the nation's industrial output fell 3 percent in January, matching the biggest decline in seven years. It said factories operated at 70.4 percent ofcapacity last month, the lowest level since 1975. 
The nation's automakers reported sales of new cas fell 7 percent in the first 10 days of February, the worst peformance for the period since 1961. But the seasonally adjusted annual sales rate of 6.3 million was the best early month per­fomance since November. 
Unemployment in the European Economic Community hit a post-World War II record of9.5 per­cent in January providing new evidence of Europe's continuing 
recession, according to figures released Friday. The data, by the 
community's statistical service, showed that about 450,000 more 
people were jobless in january than in December 1981, when 9.1 percent of the work force was unemployed. The total number of jobless in January was 10.7 million. It was the eighth straight monthly decline in jobs in the 10 nation Common Market and the worst conbined showing since the late 1940's when current statistical methods began to be used. 
Thomas Estes, the oldest son of Elliott M. Estes, the former president ofthe General Motors Corporation, stood before a Federal magistrate today and pleaded not guilty to charges that he used hs family name and false documents to extract millions of dollars from local banks and business associates. Mr. Estes, who is 4 3 years old, was indicted earlier this week on I 0 counts of fraud and misrepresentaion in connection with his financial maneuver­ings, which he reportedly resorted to in an effort to live elaborately on a moderate income. 
The major airlines, seeking to end the current fare war have filed new fares effective March I that would push the one­wa; trip between New York and Florida back to Sl35 fom the cur­rent S77. Spokesmen and executives for most of the major carriers, which have been losing money with the low fares, said in interviews yesterday that they hoped none among them would undercut the new higher fares. Many of them said nobody could make money charging S77. The airlines said they had either filed their new fare schedules with Civil Aeronautics Board or would do so soon. 

Research Update 
The FCC after more than 13 years of deliberations and 
delays, plans to issue final orders as early as this week authorizing a 
new form of mobile telephone service called cellular radio, 
according to senior officials in the agency. In the cellular system, 
made practical by computer technology, localities are divided into 
small geographic units, or "cells" each served on a two way basis by 
their own receivers and low power transmitters, using different 
radio frequencies. Special switching equipment makes it possible 
for a call made from a moving vehicle to be to be handed off 
automatically from cell to cell, from frequency to frequency, with­
out interrupting the conversation. it is designed to povide vastly 
improved voice quality for small, portable, wireless telephones for 
home and personal use, as well as in automobiles. 

For a limited time only, bring In this coupon and save 50% on all high fashion, high quality frames, Including those by Oleg casslnl, Christian Dlor, Pierre cardin, Gloria vanderbilt, etc. This coupon must be presented at time
I glasses are ordered and no other discounts applicable. Offer good on a complete pair of
I prescription glasses only. 
I 



I IServiceOJ!ticalI
I I 
The Eyewear Experts
I concord Mall 875-7472 
I scottsdale Mal!, south Bend 291-2222 
I oHices throughout Indiana ~ 
~ EYE EXAMINATION AVAILABLE BY OPTOMETRIST VISA'
I 
~ WITH OFFICES ON PREMISES
83 
~----------------­
An assistant to Chemistry Professor Eduardo Wolfis shown working with a Fourier transform infrared spectrometer. The device is used to determine the mechanism of carbon monoxide oxydatiori reactions. The goal of the research, which is beingfunded by theEPA, is to reduce pol­lution through the control ofexhaust gasses. The equipment is located in room A52 of the Fitzpatrick Engineering Building. (photo by Rae­he/Blount) 
Hittingthe skids 

Interest rates hinder recovery 
NEW YORK (AP) -Recession, sustained by high interest rates, con­tinues to tighten its grip on the economy. 
Dun & Bradstreet Corp. reported this past week that the number of business failures reached its highest weekly level since at least 1939 as far back as the credit rating com­pany's records go. 
The construction and auto in­dustries remain mired in their most prolonged slump since Depression days and the nation's economic ac­tivity has been stagnant since 1979. 
"Not since the Depression of the 1930's have we seen a span of three years with no net advance in real GNP," said economists Walter Hel­ler and George Perry in an analysis this past week for National City Bank of Minneapolis. Real GNP is the gross national product, the total goods and services produced by the economy, adjusted for inflation. 
Helle and Perry predict a deepen­ing recession before recovery later this year. 
"But under present policies, the propect that the recovery will be vigorous and sustained remains bleak," they said. 
A more pessimistic outlook was reported in theJan.-Feb. issue ofThe Bankes Magazine which said a majority ofbank economists believe the president's economic progam will not work. The bankers predict rising interest rates and unemploy­ment, and a declining goss national product in late 1982. 
On Oct. 18, President Reagan said, 
"I think there's a slight recession and 
I hope a short recession." 

On Thurs., while his economic ad­
visors were predicting economic 
recovery in a few months, Reagan 
Prime Lending Rate Percent 
2o­
18­16­14­

s•o•N•o•J•F• 
1981 1982 
was more cautious. 
He said his program, in coopera­tion with Federal Reserve Board monetary policies aimed at fighting inflation, would drive down high in­terest rates, "the greatest single threat today to a healthy, lasting recovery." Reagan said. "I'rn just not going to be pinned down on a date." 
Banks nationwide raised their prime lending rate this past week to l 7 pecent from 16.5 percent, the second such increase this month, pushing the prime to its highest level since mid-Nov. 
The prime rate is the base upon which banks compute interest charges on short-term business loans to their most credit worthy customers. 
Dun & Bradstreet reported 529 
business failures in the week ended 


Ihe ObserYer~ 
Needs SM C Reporters Write ' 'Focus' ' stories and make $. 
Call Cathy if interested 277-2244 The SMC OBSERVER office is open from 

1: 30-3: 30M-Th and Sundays for classified ads. 

on Feb. 1 I, up from 449 in the pre­vious week and 321 in the com­parable week a year ago. It was the highest weekly total in 43 years. 
For the first six weeks of 1982, the number of business failures is 42 percent higher than the same 1981 period. And Dun & Bradstreet said many business closings that are not 
connected  with  failure  to  pay  
ceditors  are not  included in  the  
report.  

Edward Yardeni, cheif economist at the investment firm ofE.F. Hutton & Co. Inc., says high long-term costs have forced most businesses to rely heavily on short-term loans to make ends meet during the recession. 
"They are simply trying to survive," Yardeni says. "Ifthey aren't bailed out by a recovery soon, many will go belly up." 
Yardeni says that with the Fed sticking to a restrictive monetary policy and the Reagan administra­tion projecting record budget deficits, pressure will continue to keep interest rates high. 
Without relic( "The recession would get much uglier," he says. 

Unconfirmed reports indicate NASA may launch the third mission ofthe space shuttle a few days ear­lier then the planned March 22 launch date. NASA has refused to confirm or deny the reports except to indicate that preparations are running a feu• days ahead of schedule. ( AP LASERPHOTO) 




~~()1"tS=~~~~i=e~~~S========~=====================T=u=es=da=y=,F=e=br=u=ary==2=3,=I=98=2===pa=g==e7
By The ( J!Jsen•er and The Associated Press 
Michlgan basketball tickets are still available at the second tloor ticket oftkc at the ACC. The game will be held in the Silvcruome in Pontiac, Mich., on Sunday, March 7. Tickets arc prin:u at $4 and $6. -The Observer 
Ski trips to Swiss Valley every Saturday night Juring the win­ter months. arc being sponsored by the Student Union. Busses depart from the Main Circle at S p.m. and return at II p.m. Bus tickets can he purchased in advance from the Student Union for S2.SO, or on the hu~ itself for S3.00. Also, discounted lift tickets and ski rental arc available -The Observer 
WSND stafferSand staff members of The Observer will play a hockey game Wednesday night at midnight at the ACC. The game is part of a continuing challenge series in a number of sports, each of which WSND has dominated. A good time will be had by all, and all are welc6me to enjoy the spectacle of totally inexperienced skaters trying to break each other's faces. -The Obser11er 
Saint Mary's basketball team lost to Indiana University/ Purdue University at Indianapolis over the weekend by a score of I 0 I·73. Lisa Schirz scored 23 points for the Belles, while Mary Pat Sitlington pulled down 10 rebounds, and Mary Bayless <.leah out six assists. Saint Mary's next contest is this Friday at 6 p.m. against Grace at Goshen. -The Ob~·erver 

SportsBoard 

MEN'S BASKETBAL This week's playoff schedule Feb. 24 Holy Cross v Sorin Feb.25 Grace v. w1nner ol24th 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Results of Feb. 15 LeWIS I 44, O·C 28 B·P 33, Lyons 117 Lyons II over Lew1s II (by forfeit) Pasq. West 23, Farley 115 Farley 1122, Pasq. East16 Walsh 22, Bad~n 12 
Reauha of Feb. 21 O·C 24, Farley 116 Pasq, East 23. Badin 16 
WOMEN'S BB STANDINGS 1. Lew1s I (8·0) 

2. Farley II (7-1) 3 Pasq. East (7·2) 4. O·C (6·3) 5. Walsh (5·3) 6. B·P (4·4) 1. Farley I (4·5) 8 Lyons I (3·5) 
9. Pasq. West (3·5) 1 0 Bad~n (2·7) 
11. 
Lyons II (1·7) 

12. 
LewiS II (0·8) 


Thla week's games 
Feb. 22 B·P v. LewiS I Lyons I v. Farley I 0-Cv. Walsh Lew1s II v. Farley II Lyons II v. Badin Pasq. East v. Pasq. West 
Feb. 28 
L.ew1s I v. Farley 1 0-C v. Pasq. East B-P v. Farley II Lyons II v. Pasq West Lew1s II v. Badin Lyons I v. Walsh 
HOCKEY 
Results of last week Pangborn 4, Sarin 3 Flanner 4, Keenan 3 0-C 9, Cavanaugh 2 Stanford 3, Zahm 1 Alumm 2, F1sher 2 Holy Cross 6. Dillon 1 
St. Ed's 17, Sonn 1 Pangborn 5. Momssey 3 
HOCKEY STANDINGS SOUTH 
1. Holy Cross (6·0) 2. D1llon (5·1) 3. Alumni (4·1·1) 4. Pangborn (3·3) 
5. St. Ed's (3·3) 6. Mornssey (2·4) 7. F1sher (0·5·1) 8. Sonn (0·6) 
NORTH 
1, Grace (4·0) 2. Stanford (3·0·1) 3.0·C(3·1) 4 Cavanaugh (2·2·1) 5. Ftanner (1·3·1) 6. Keenan (0·3·1) 7. Zahm (0·4) 
This week's games 
Feb. 23 Grace v. Cavanaugh Keenan v. Zahm 
Feb.25 
0-C v. Stanford Alumnr v. D1llon 
TOP FIVE NVA POLL 
1 HolyCross 
2. Grace 3.0-C 
4. 
Dillon 

5. 
Stantord 


The Observer wtll accept classtfteds Mon· day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However, classitieds to appear tn the next tssue must be received by 3 p.m. the bustness day pnor to tnsertton. All classifieds must be prepaid, 
etther in person or through the mat I.



Classifieds 
Found: at the ACC, the n~ght of the Holy WANTED: R1de to O'Hare on Friday. I saw a number of guys 1n blue pm-stnpes 
Broth~r :,.,it d1~0:,.~ ;,.;~ 1f I do~ t get2 ~~-4 Dear MONSTER. Its for free. 11's forCross/D1IIon hockey game (wh1ch by the March 12. If you're leav1ng between 2 and too! Another Observer 
student or GA DePaul 11x... please call
NOTICES real.· and I LOVE ITIII Love. Hall·p1nt 
way the HOGS won handily) a class nng 3p.m.. call Greg at 233·4361 

6024-thanks!!l 
from Un1on Haven '61. call V1nce 1238 NO I DON'T MEAN TOM MacLENNAN A 

must1dent1fy l'i89Ci ;,d~ to Hou~ion. rex~~ ;;; ~p~i~g I m 1n the mood for turtle souplll (Yum,
NEED4 DEPAULGAS CALL MARTY AT more developed eye yuml)OVERSEAS JOBS--Summer/year break. If you are headed rn that direCtion 
1623 

round. Europe, S. Amer , Australia, Asia. LOST: SINGLE GOLD CHAIN Extreme please call T1mo at1762. 
Too bad Tom ·the other drugs are not the answer (but they're aAll fields $500·$1200 monthly. Sightsee· value to mel If found please call Mark-­I DESPERATELY NEED TWO DEPAUL

1ng. Free rnfo. Wnte IJC, Box 52·1N4, 3695. REWARD. TYPING 26 years as a secretary. Excel­reasonable substitute)
GA TICKETS PLEASE CALL TIM AT W1llthere be any carrots at WednesdaysCorona Del Mar, CA 92625 lent typist--retired. $1.00 per page. Call 13771111 D·l~ne salad bar a11:15? Here·s hoprng. 
Dear Walsh Hall, ThiS IS 11, your chance to lost· a d1g1tal watch w1th a cracked crystal Phyllis 259·2501. 

........................................ ·················· 
Look1ng for a truly portable. yet powerful, and without a band. call 6261 reward. .,., ............ ,......................,........................ Rab call the most good lokkrng guy on 
I NEED 2 DEPAUL GA'SI! CALL BOB AT
personal computer? See THE OS­thanks RIDE NEEDED TO HOUSTON TEX-FOR campus .. so good·look1ng that h1s ne1gh·
1647 Too bad Dave D. 1sn 1 a tumor and doesn't 
BORNE 1. 64K, dual tOOK d1sk dnves. SPRING BREAK---WILL SHARE USUAL bor s w1fe asked h1m to have an affair-­
have a tacketless blue pin·stnpe surt the

complete software package. $1795. LOST. CALL CHRIS AT 1676 ANYTIME. xxx With the ma1tman ... so good·look1ng that 
I need tl~k~l~ ,;; th~ Morrl~;;~ pnnter
FOURWAY COMPUTER PRODUCTS the only reason we don't nom1nate h1m for
Microeconomics book by Walter NIC­Schwartzer concert or I'LL DIEt Save 

(Across from North V1llage Mall). 277· holson, 1n room 121 O'Shag on Fnday, Must deliver bananas to my Uncle UMOC rs that the charities wouldn't know 
my life by selling me yours. Call Allee That's okay. he doesn't need the su1t or what to do w1th all the money..so good­7720 2/12 Please call M1ke at 8649 1f book is Bonzo In Washington D.C. I need a nde 7471. HURRYIII even a tacket. the des1gner 
found. there anytime, any weekend. I will share looking that he's the ctearas1l poster chlid­CAMP COUNSELORS--Instructors dnvmg and drinking expenses. I can even ·betore so good-lookmg that Gerry
Rachel. where are you???

wanted for prestrge pnvate Mrch1gan boys Lost: One black da1ly assrgnment book 1n offer amus1ng conversation, unless you Faust uses h1m as a tackling dummy and g1rls summer camps. Marc Seeger eng1neenng aud Fnday. If found call J1m hke silence, 1n wh1ch case I'll she. up and dunng pract1ce. Call thiS good-look1ng
PERSONALS 
Look1ng for a truly portable. yet powerful 

1765 Maple. Northfield. IL 60093. at1388. Reward. count p1gs through Oh1o. If you're dnv1ng before5 p.m
personal computer? See The Osborne 1,

to D.C. g1ve me (Ryan) a call at 272·6156 II you're lucky he morght even refuse to 
64K. dual 1OOK disk dnves. plus $1400

ATTENTION: URGENTLY to day or mght. The Society for Creative Anechronfam talk to you So good-look1ng. worth of software, all for $1795. FOUR·
need LOST: 2 CAR KEYS, ROOM KEY, MAIL ·~. 
locate whne.. to an automobile acci­KEY ON ST.CHRISTOPHER CHAIN 1s holding an organizational meeting on xxx xxxxxxJe.fi&o 1, 
WAY COMPUTER PRODUCTS. (AcrossThursday (Feb.25) In LaFortune's Lilliedent on October 10 at 7:30pm (day ol PLEASE CALL 1771. 

from North Village Mall). 277·7720. 

the Florida State Game). The accident GOING WEST? RIDERS NEEDED TO Theatre at 7 p.m. All are welcome! PAT ANDREWS IS COMING ... PAT occurred on Cleveland Road, Weal of PLEASE NOTICE; LOST: A Be1ge fur· KANSAS CITY, WICHITA. OR SALINA ANDREWS IS COMING...PAT
To theJPW crew. Don t yuu .now a>oyoneJuniper, near Oakmont Park aubdfvl· collared w1nter coat by MAINE GUIDE at FOR SPRING BREAK. CALL LISA AT 1n Mornsey? Stomp the boxes not the ANDREWS IS COMING to Sa1nt Mary'• alon. Pfeaae contact Volunteer the South D1mng Hall on 2/22/62. A scarf 8021 Want to go to the Mornson Schwartzer muffins! RACKS!!" Where did you stash Link Theatre In Mor-ea" HaU, Marcb 4 
Sarvtcea, X7308 If you hava any In· and hat were 1n the pockets also. Any in· Concert. Will do anything to go ... includ1ng the v1no? You ve got the w1ne we've got a18p.m, 
!ormation. format1on lead1ng to my retneving the coat Need nde to M1ch1gan State. East Lans1ng sleep wrth you I Call Mitzie Burke-Sweater the chocolate mousse logs. How about a 
NANc-v:·A·c,·;.:s·H·aaoaoo:rs:·:rHA.Ni<s

will be rewarded Without question. Please area. Can leave anytime Friday 26th, or 9344 reumon? D1d you know there's a d1scount 
TYPING: EX-LEGAL SECRETARY. 272· contact Kevm at11 03. Thank You. aHer 4:00 Thurs. Call Shan 2656. FOR THE WONDERFUL WEEKEND! 5337 NEED RIDE EAST ON Rt 80 TO BUCK· HAPPY MARDI GRASI DAVID
on rooms at the Budgeteer? Yep Yep Yep 

Yep Yep Yep Rrde desperately needed for two to LONG NELLI WILLIAMSPORT/ PENN STATE MORRISON SCHWARTZER AND ISLAND/N.Y.C. for break! will share LEAVING 2·26, RETURNING 2·28 or 3-1. T.J. I'll do the d1shes anytrme you want to John Bardsley, If you get any k1sses from THE TOXIC WASTES are com1ng to 
usual. Phil at8276. CALL MIKE AT 1787 the other top mne, please don't tell me ·I'd
do the cook1ngl Thanks for mak1ng Fnday NOTRE DAME ...MARCH 3 AT THE 
FOR RENT 
be crushed forever. Hope you had a fan·

night so special! Fnends are flowers rn the ACC ... Mornson IS the proponent of the 
HelpIll Desperately need ride to North­MOLARITY garden of hte and you've helped my gar· tast1c birthday! Love and k1sses Your 
G~rl .. den bloom agam. Love ya Anne mus1c.... MICROWAVE ROCK! Tickets Available for next school year and Break. Can leave anytime, will share can't satiate your appet1te for campus ..........,. ..... .. .... 
thnvmg new genre of ern Jersey or NYC area lor March Yes Molarity fans, 1f the da1ly stnp just 
summer--two live bedroom houses. 234· 

are not ava1l1ble at the box office usual. Call Tare, SMC, 4986. humor, then you simply can't be w1thout NEED RIDE to Dayton, Cincinnati, or
THE PARTY GOES ON: Owen Bullons"2626. 

the latest collections by M1chae1 Mohnell1, Hamtlton area th1s weekend (Feb. 26·28) 
Murray IS Still celebrating h1s 19th 

II you m1ssed ANN BOURJAILY. you're a published by world-renowned publishing Will share the usual. Call Amy 41·4137
birthday. The wrld beach man from Ph1lly fool, but don't be a complete rd1ot...see house Juniper Press, either Don't Make a
4 bdrm house for rent.North shore.$275 

mo. utilities Available (check the dogbook out) 1s st1ll accepting
1ncL Summer booze, cheesesteaks, and kiSSes fromPAT ANDREWS Thursday, March 4, at6 FOR SALE Right S~e wsi.i[) g~ f~r 1ts third stra1ght a;htetlc 
and/or fall 1982. Parkovash. Call Pany

p.m. 1n SMC's L1nle Theatre. Moreau Hall. 
or last year's smash best-seller. On the VICtory aga1nsttthe Observer on Wednes· 
-
any ND/SMC g~rls (even as we speak) at3193228735 call refunded 

Get a clue and BE THERE. Road to Selling Out. day mght at mrdn~ght1n a hockey game tn
223 Cavanaugh or Simply call hrm at 

Both books are still available 1n the Notre the north dome of the ACC. WSND 
Free rent;house f~r faculty for s~;,.;~ Trntable:DUAL 1241 S-only 3 yrs. old,one X1427 and play wrth h1s mind (so to 
THE BIG SKY CLUB (THE MONTANA Dame Bookstore for the bargain pnce of speak). (AM64) Will carry the game hve If you can't mer;call Patty 3193228735 call refunded. 
owner, call Jim at 277-2349 
CLUB) WILL HAVE A MEETING WILL BE $2.95. tt makes a great gift -and make 11. RA Jack Bngantl and Jollln' Jane 
5 ...................................................... AN ELECTION OF CLUB OFFICERS 
available in boxed sets too (of 200). Act Healey w111 provide the play-by-play ac­
For Sale. 1964 Chevy Schoolbus. Rblt. --WHO IS THAT? --DHB. of coursei--You AND A DISCUSSION OF SPRING 
now! tion. 
Available march 15th for eng. & trns.. carpet & curtains. 272-9913 mean GLA!I Love, CHIP & DALE BREAK. ALL MEMBERS ARE ASKED 
rent,4bedroom,2bathroom.ma,ntance

TO PLEASE ATTEND MANDATORY BOSTON BUS Meet1ng GET DEBAUCHED GET DEBAUCHED free house. $300 per month,plus $300 
Band Break1ng Upll NED Ill MARY I NED Ill MARY I NED Ill 
THURS. 2/25. 7 p.m. 1n LaFortune L1llle GET DEBAUCHED GET DEBAUCHED 
deposit.Call233·2547 for appo1ntment Mlxer,mlkes.eq.,amps,delay.spkrs.lts. MARY I NED Ill MARY I NED Ill MARY I 
DO YOU NEED A GOOD HAIRCUT? Theatre. Bus Leaves the 12th. Rd Tnp. GET DEBAUCHED GET DEBAUCHED
and much more. 272·9913 NED Ill MARY I GUYS $4, GIRLS $6 CALL MICHOLE AT 
Refresh-$110. Money due at meeting ITS HE ONLY WAY TO GO. 
7951 Three bedroom hous~ f~r~1~h~d. o~ 
MUST ATTEND! BOSTON CLUB PARTY Rrvers1de Dnve: 2 baths. Call 272·6360. 
Save money on used books at PAN­to my HGLDE: it sure was a long, lonely 
at 919 South Bend Ave. IS FRIDAY the DEAR DOORKNOB. IT LOOKS LIKE
DORA'S. Used paperbacks 3&o off the list weekend! (sigh!) love. the yellow roseIdeal for two semors or two graduate stu~ 26th from g.? NOT THURSDAY as SOCIETY HAS EDITED (AND PERHAPS dents. pnce. Open tt-6 weekdays. 10·5 previously announced FOR ITS OOWN GOOD) OUR BRASSY.
weekends. PANDORA'S BOOKS, 937 DEAR SHIRLEY: Joe had some spare 
COLD. BOLD LITTLE STORY. EVEN FURNISHED HOMES NICE AREA FOR 
South Bend Avenue. 233·2342. t1me and showed me how to clean my
Att: anyone 1ntere~ued 1n Amateur RadiO DISCRETION HAS NO PLACE IN
LOST/FOUND 
desk. but then Bruce came by andNEXT SCHOOL YEAR CLOSE TO NO K9VAU N.D amateur radiO counc1l w1ll PRINT I STILL THINK IT WOULD IM·

deposited computer pnntouts and2773604 hold 11s f1rst 1962 meet1ng on Thursday MENSELY FUN IF YOU WOULD DRESS 

programs upon th1s newly cleaned 

Feb 25 Please come to the ballroom 2nd UP LIKE A LAMP THE SAGA.
TICKETS 
surtace. Well. a«er a qu1et yet deliberate LOST Green plaid scarf Last seen han· APT FOR RENT 266055 floor Lafortune at 7:00pm. All welcome HOWELR. WILL CONTINUE REGARD­

drscuss1on w1th The System, he hasgrng on the w1re fence 1n front of Badin The possrb1htres are endless' LESS OF MISHAPS LOVE IT. LOVE IT

agreed to keep my work area 1n 1ts newHall around 5 30p m. II you hdppRned to A 2BR HOUSE FOR RENT 230 WANT STUDENT OR GAs FOR 

LOVE IT GRANDMA p1ck rt up. please call Karen Kosteck y UTILITIES PAID 150 DEPOSIT 288· DEPAUL GAME. BIG$. CALL AFTER 11 
found state of cleanliness Hope allrs well 

QUANTA W1ndsurf1ng Awesome! 8162 7519 259·0977 555 p.m 289-3145. 
w1th you Stay warm. R1ch WHATTEAM GOES FROM 1STTO 3RD 

THE LOW LIFE Low Ia the best way to IN ONE WEEK? ANSWER. DILLONNeed up to 5 DePaul G.A tickets. CallLOST A BLUE AUSTRIAN LODEN 
John at139t go. HOCKEY ALUMNI DOGS WILL WIN COAT AT BRIDGET'S ON THURSDAY 
AGAIN NIGHT REWARD!III CALL MARY AT "Judge thyse/1 so that thou mayest judge 
WANTED . . .. .. ................................................................ 
ALISON, HAPPY BIRTHDAY to ow 264 4762 others... " •
Need MANY DePaul GA s Ill do almost 
favonle FLORIDA GAL! Hope J B Will Jim Lucke. NEED RIDE TO MASSACHUSETTS­
an ythrng to gel them Call Dan at 8606 
anyt1me SHARE w1th Y all! HAVE A MEGA WILD Hope you 0•·1 Nell on the lest. but Wrlde?? LOST A 14K GOLD CROSS FROM A SPRING BREAK. CALL DAVE 1655 
ONE'! LOVE. THE 3M s C mon \'"'• an do better than that! Tug. 
NECKLACE. IN GYM I OF ACC IF need 3 DePaul t>x badly Will pay
FOUND PLEASE CALL 283 1772 THIS Desperately need a nde for two people to Dearest Ryan Hey Colleen Qufnnt
megabucks call Peg at 3723.
IS OF GREAT VALUE TO ME Northern Jersey, nght off Route 80 Will You deserve an A for effort lor reform· o k so thiS frog hops 1nto a bank, see 
share the usual Call M1ke at 1181 1ng your previously sordid and scan· and he hops up to the teller, see. o.k so Rtck Jacon '''"is an essay god/IllLOST A s1ze 42xl London Fog overcoat 
NEED DEPAUL TICKETS 
dalous behavror (at least around me) he says. he says. Hey I wanna make a at ErSkin C.C last Saturday nrghl 1 have Need nde to N VIRGIN lAID C area for depos11 (ThiS frog 1s 1ta11an. nght?) o.k 
Wrll pay$$$ fo; up to 6 GAs, Call JOHN 
Good Job! LAURA LEI LAURA LEE. your_ 44reg coat Call Emmett at 234·6298 spnng break Can leave tate I he 1Oth. Call Smcerely. Rab so anyway (mare later) ' how you have affected me J1m 1763 P.S. when 1s the garden party? I sit and stand 
3430 

W1lltrade small there-nuclear dev1ce for 4 t1ckels to the March 3 Momson 
BDQ Hope that you are feeling lots bet· and live and trust LOST--SHARP CALCULATOR PLEASE 
NEED RIDE TO MIAMI U. OH ter! Get lots of sleep and plenty of that that !ove for you
Schwartzer Concert at the ACC CallCONTACT BILL AT 6629-·REWARD 
CALL RICH 232·1824 The System likes to be talked to TLC I love you bunches. G.G w111 never bust
Chuck Mason 915-5555 
LOST Gold and srtver Se1ko watch 1n 
NEED TWO RIDES .TO DALLAS FOR Alum from Chrcago needs ·2 DePaul GA Skip Why are you 1n such a good mood? WHAT DO YOU GET WHEN YOU TAKE ROTC bu1id1ng on Feb 16 II you have 11 PLEASE CALL 7860 ONE BITE OF CHICKEN GARNISHED to MORAN
SPRING BREAK lrx Will pay top dollar Call Charlie at6214 Is somethrng up? Cold 1n So. Bend . Congratulattons DAN from please return 11, 11 was a graduation OR 7942 
WITH PARSLEY. A PLATE OF CHOC· wonderful KEENAN HALL the w1nner present Call Mrke 234·6296 
HELP! I am 1n desperate need of. 3~5 Who was that gorgeous guy 1n the tailored OLATE MOUSSE AND FINISH OFF of WSND's BIRTHDAY BONANZA Dan Two female roomates wanted for next DePaul G. A ·s Call41-4057 blue p1n-stnpe on Saturday n1ght and why WITH PITCHERS OF GALLO . WHITE rece1ves $100 worth of albums courtesy Found one rll)i near library Sunday year for Campus V1ew apartment Please d1dn 1 you take off your Jacket? The telep­AND ROSE? ONE HAPPY DISH CREW of R1ver C1ty Records and Notre Dames 
nrght Call and descnbe CHIP at 8647 call 7612. hoto lens IN KITCHEN NUMBER TWO' best rock --WSND·AM 64
Need 2 DePaul GAs call Dave at 1657 
Tuesday, February 23, 1982-page 8
The Observer -Sports 

-
r 
' ~ 
f r 
Tim Andree, shown here dwarfed by North Carolina State's 7-5 Chuch Nevitt, and the rest ofthe Irish face anothertall team tonight in the Fordham Rams, featuring 7-0 center Dud Tonga/. See Dave Dziedzic's preview on page 12(photo by Cheryl Ertelt). 
onCAREER 

And that guarantees a career with quality, stability and high visibility-all the things you need to make your mark in the engineering field. 
We're Emerson's Electronics & Space Division, engaged in the design and manufacture of high technology armament and electronic systems for organizations and governments around the world. Our products include specialized radar, automatic test systems, airborne armament systems, missile launching and guidance systems. The Electronics & Space Division is also involved in the optical field, and has extensive software programming ability and familiarity with modern computer architecture. We're the fastest growing company in our field, and our rapid growth and expansion reflects both the constant demand lor our products and the variety and challenge available to our 
employees. 
Opportunities are available for. 
• 
ELECTRICAL/ELECTRONIC ENGINEERS 

• 
COMPUTER ENGINEERS 

• 
INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERS 

• 
MECHANICAL & SYSTEMS ENGINEERS 



Electronics & Space is a division of Emerson Electric Co., a Fortune 290 Company, and is head· quartered in St. Louis, a dynamic metropolitan area that boasts a low cost of living, quality educa· lion, great medical centers, outstanding cultural facilities and professional sports. 
We offer competitive salaries and a lull range of benefits. For more information about careers with the Electronics and Space Division of Emerson Electric Co., write: 
Rita L. Kaplan, Manager College Relations 

Elczc:tronics~ S'pac:czDivision 
II 
Emerson Electric Co. 8100 W. Florissant Avenue Station 2561 (Dept. ND-282) St. Louis, MO 63136 
ISMIS,..SON 

An Equal Opportunity Employer AUF 
Bengalcoach 

Forrest Gregg answers criticism 
CINCINNATI (AP) Bengal Coach Forrest Gregg still is bot­hered by media criticism of his coaching and the Bengals' play in their 26-2lloss to the San Francisco 49ers in Super Bowl XVI. 
"There are people in the media who know something, and there are those who pretend to know some­thing," Gregg said. "Those who know, you can differ with and still respect their opinions; those who pretend, you can disregard and not even think about. That's how I regard an article like that (in Sports Illustrated magazine)." 
The story in the nationally dis­tributed magazine that upset Gregg was one that heaped praise on 49er Coach Bill Walsh's offensive genius. It made Gregg conclude that he is considered somewhat less than a genius, even though he turned around a team that had been 4-12 two consecutive seasons and in two years took it to the Super Bowl. 
Gregg was particularly annoyed with the attention given to Walsh's freewheeling game plan, including some plays that were added a few days before the Super Bowl. He says Cincinnati's plays were just as in­novative. 
"No team's game plan is chiseled in stone. The stuffyou use on Sunday is never exactly the same as what you started with on Wednesday," Gregg said. "You're always adding plays as you go along. We did it all the time, and so did just about everyone else. 

"We added one play during pre­game warmups this year, and it went for a touchdown. 
"All that had nothing to do with why we lost. We lost because we didn't play very well, particularly in the first half." 
Gregg said he and his assistants have put Super Bowl XVI behind them, for the most part, and have been concentrating on the upcom­ing collegedraft . 
All the members of the AFC cham­pionship team are expected back when the Bengals open summer campJuly 29 at Wilmington College, with the exception of two-year defensive lineman Rod Horn, who has retired to enterforestry service. 
OSU Athletic Director requests fans' restraint 
COLUMBUS,OHIO (AP) -Hugh Hindman, Ohio State's Athletic Director, appealed Monday to Buckeye's basketball fans to show good sportsmanship when Indiana plays at Ohio State Thursday night. "Ohio State fans have been known for their outstanding sportsmanship, and we want to perpetuate that reutation this week," Hindman said in a prepared statement issued through the school's sports informa­tion department. 
"'Although there have been some 

suggestions that our fans respond in 
a manner that would be uncharac­
teristic ofOhio State fans, we do not 
expect that to happen. 
"Our chief interest now is in 

continuing the outstanding basket­
ball rivalry that exits between our 
two institutions." 
In the first meeting between the 

Big Ten Conference rivals this 
season in Bloomington, a flagrant 
foul by Ohio State freshman guard 
Troy Taylor against Indiana junior Jimmy Thomas led to heated ex­changes between the schools' representatives. 
Taylor said Bob Knight, Indiana's 

coach, swore at him after Thomas was injured while driving for a layup near the end of the game. Taylor's foul came on the play. 
Knight denied Taylor's charges and dispatched an assistant coach two days after the game to show television replays of the foul to Columbus media. 
Both schools t11ed reports to the Big Ten office. 
Phil Neuman, a sports talk show 

for Columbus radio station WBNS, 
had been asking his listeners to boo 
Knight when the Indiana coach 
walks on the floor of St.John Are'na 
on Thursday night. But the station's 
management ordered Neuman last 
week to stop his booing campaign. 

The neighboring rivals are con­tenders tor the Big Ten title, sharing third place at 9-5. Indiana and Ohio State trail Iowa by two games, with four league contests remaining. The Hoosiers won the first meeting 66­61. 
They also are at-large candidates for the National Collegiate Athletic Associatio Tournament. Ohio State is 18-8 for all games and Indiana I 5­8. 
• • .Atnusing 
continuedfrom page9 
Seymour, Ind. real estate agent who's running for the legislature in the Hoosier state claims that the coach, Joe Williams, paid him money to attend Furman when Wil­liams coached rhere. And a Florida State cheerleadn claims an FSU as­sistant paid for • rip to Chicago for her as a mear of enticing high school star Raymond McCoy to play for the Seminoh McCoy ended up 
at DePaul. 
Let's hear it for a man with get-up­

and-go, who takes matters into his 
own hands. George Allen, unable to 
land a coaching job in the NFL, went 
out and bought a controlling inter­
est in the Canadian Football League's 
Montreal Allouettes. Perhaps it 
should come as no surprise that Al­
len promptly named himself head coach. 
Jim Valvano, who is starting to rival Abe Lemons as the "clown prince of college basketball," had this to say before his team played ll­0 North Carolina: ·'Actually, they're much better than their record indi­cates." 
Meanwhile, Bobby Knight claims 

he'll never quit coaching: "I would 
hate to go through the rest ofmy life 
and have to give up my position as 
one of America's foremost media 
critics." 
Speaking of cheating, and of col­lege coaches, listen to Gale Catlett. His West Virginia Mountaineers are 22-1, but he's got some interesting things to say about the Cincinnati Bearcats, whom he used to coach: "If the University of Cincinnati would not have formed their in-house in­vestigative committee and turned up some things, I don't think they ever would have been penalized. The NCAA felt that they could go in and penalize them and there would bt: no rebuttal. I was very disap­pointed the probation was as strong 
as it was." 
No "I'm sorry I got the school in 
trouble" from Catlett. The best he'll 
offer is "there were a lot worse 
things going on before I got there." 
But such is the state of college bas­
ketball. 

Hockey fans will be interested to learn that two CCHA coaches resigned yesterday. Rick Duffet of Ferris State actually handed in his letter in November, but the school just released it yesterday. Duffet said he wishes to pursue interests "outside the hockey world." More significant, but less surprising, was the announcement from Michigan Tech. After 23 years, three NCAA championships and seven WCHA titles, John Macinnes, the dean of college coaches, resigned. Macinnes, who has been bothered by ill health for two years, is the win­ningest coach in college hockey, with a 552-293-38 record. 
The recent trade of former Irish player Bill Laimbeer by the NBA's Cleveland Cavaliers brings to mind a classic Laimbeer story. Earlier in the season, Laimbeer heard rumors that he was about to be traded to the Lakers, whereupon he went on a stringent three-day diet. When he heard the deal was off, so was the diet. Apparently fat was good enough for Cleveland, if not for Hol­lywood. 
_, 

The Observer -Sports Tuesday, February 23, 1982-page 9 

Theamusing andunimpC!rtant 
Excerpts from a crowded notebook: 
Can you believe the quotes coming out of Los An­geles? The Observer has covered the UCLA basketball scandal extensively, hut get these. 
Karccm Abdul-Jabbar: "They're trying to make (Sam 
Gilbert) sound like a criminal. He didn't break any 
California laws, did he? Maybe he did things that might 
not have bn·n totally right, but for anyone who isn't 
independently wealthy, the NCAA rulc:s make it dif­
ficult." 
David Berst, head of the NCAA's Enforcement Divi­
sion: "The only way (the Los Angeles Times findings) 
can be of assistance to our purposes is if there arc 
sources available that can be identified or cor­
roborated. What I've seen so far is useless for NCAA 
purposes." 
Fred Slaughter, former UCLA center and dean of the lJCLA law school, now a sports attorney: "Enough is enough. The NCAA was right in not reopening the case. Now the players don't go to (Gilbert's) house, and that's punishment enough. He has paid the penalty." 
Speaking ofscandals. the University ofSouth Carolina has completed its purge of former women's basketball coach Pam Parsons. The school put out a new press guide for the sport, with a big feature on Acting Head Coach Terry Kelly, and Parsons has cleverly been cut out of the team picture that appears in game programs. 
Gulf & Western claims it's losing money on the operation of Madison Square Garden, and has threatened to move the New York Knicks to Long Island and the Rangers lO the Meadowlands unless they get a tax break from the city of New York. So how cometh' 

What a difference a year makes. An NBC Sports offi­cial reports that last year's second Notre Dame-UCLA basketball clash drew a rating of8.6, but the same ga1p.e this year drew only a 5. 7 rating. Three ratings points means very big bucks, and may be a big factor in the network's decision to cancel its telecast of the Irish­Michigan game in March. The network has its fingers crossed that Sunday's match-up with DePaul doesn't fare as poorly with the viewers. 
It may go unnoticed by most fans, but the Vancouver Canucks have, undoubtedly, the ugliest uniforms in all of pro sports. They are rivaled only by the Houston Astros' monstrosities. The worst offenders in the col­lc:ge ranks? No contest. The two-tone purple of Kansas State basketball. 
There is big trouble brewing at Florida State, where a former basketball player, James Bozeman, has charged an assistant coach with a number of recruiting viola­tions, and claims school officials gave him drugs to keep him playing while injured. Now there's even more. A 
See AMUSING, page 8 

Willis Reed, Hal Greer elected 
(AI')-SPRINGFIELD, MASS.-For join the 125 individuals and four years with the Syracuse Nationals Willis Reed, dection to the Basket­teams .already in the Naismith and I 0 years with Philadelphia, hall llall of Fame ensures that his Memorial Basketball Hall ofFame on where the Nationals moved in 1963. achievements will not be forgotten. the Springfield College campus, Like the other three players, 
For Frank Ramsey, it's "the ul­where James Naismith invented the Greer played on an NBA champion­timatl' honor," and ti1r Slater Martin game in 1891. ship team, with the 76crs in 1967. it's "a great honor." Greer's credentials include Reed did it with the New York 
But, for llal Greer, "it's a little tar­21, 5!i6 regular-season points, eighth Knicks in 19'70 and 1973, Ramsey nished." most in NBA history, and 10 trips to seven times with the Boston Ccltics, 
The election to the IIall ofFame of the NBA all-star game. He called his and Martin four times with the Min­the four ti1rmer stars of the National election "a great honor" but a ncapo'iis Lakers and once with the St. Basketball ASsociation was an­belated one. Louis Hawks. nounced Saturday "It's a little tarnished because it 
Uaren~e "Big !louse" Gaines and took a little longer than I thought," Case, who died in 1966 at the age the late Everett Case also were said Greer, who became eligible for of65, compiled a 377-134 record in chosen, ti1r their coaching, and AI induction five year after his retire­19 seasons as coach at North Duer was picked for his contribu­ment in 1973. Carolina State after building a 726­tions as an administrator. The 46-ycar-old ex-guard, now in 75 mark as a high school coach in 
The selections were: made by a 16-the real estate business in Philadel­Indiana. membcr committee, whose phia, said, "I don't think I got very composition was not disclosed. much support from the 76ers" in Gaines, of Winston-Salem State, is Twelve votes were required for in­helping him get elected. · the winningest active college coach. duction. "It's very discouraging after Duer was executive secretary of the 
At enshrinement ceremonies here playing I 5 years for an organiza­National Association of Intercol­May 3. the seven new members will tion," said Greer, who spent five legiate Athletics from 1949 to 1975. 


Bobby Knightisacharmingguy? 
WEST LAFAYETTE, IND. (AP)­Purdue and I wasn't sure how he was sorority house. Indiana University's Bobby Knight is going to react. But he was really Last week, she wrote Knight to not as bad as everybody says he is. nice. remind him of the dinncr invitation, Just ask Ruth Lohmeyer, a Purdue "He said hc enjoyed working with and an IU official called her back to university student and loyal Boiler­the special kids and that he .had set the date. maker fan. learned a lot from them. He was very She had dinner with Knight, his 
Ms. Lohmeyer, a sophomore from patient and he related with the kids coaching staff and Fred Taylor, Valparaiso, says the IU ht:ad c<)ach is very well." Knight's former Ohio State coach not only a nice guy, but "is so charm­A friend of hers took the picture who now is a color commentator for ing." and "he made a deal," said Ms. Loh­the Big Ten Conference. 
Ayear ago, Purdue-IU games were meyer. "He said if I would send him "It was great, just great," she said overshadowed by weeks of feuding the picture he would autograph it of the dinner. between the two intrastate rivals. and send it back -if I would hang it That hasn't happened this year, in my sorority house and tell people however. here he's not as bad as everyone says 
Ms. Lohmeyer was a dinner guest he is." 
...Reds

of Knight and his coaching staff The picture was returned Friday night bdore the Saturday IU­autographed and with a message: Purdue game, which the Boiler­"Ruth -best wishes to the prettiest 
continuedfrompage 10 
makers wtm, 76-6S. Boilermaker there is! Bob Knight". The friendship between Ms. An accompanying letter from Hume, 28, had a 9-4 record with 13 saves last season. He reportedly
Lohmeyer and Knight began in June Knight said, "I have enclosed the picture you sent down for me to submitted a 5575,500 salary figure 
when she walked up to him at an In­for this season; the Reds were
diana Special Olympics gathering at sign. Don't forget our agreement Terre Haute just to say hello. about putting it up in the sorority believed to have submitted a figure "I figured, 'What the heck," Ms. house. 
ofs375,ooo. In arbitration, the party deciding
Lohmeyer said. "At the time nobody "When Indiana plays up there the case must accept one figure and
was around him. I just wanted to get next year, you have an invitation to to know him. I wanted to find out cat dinner with us the night before 
may not initiate a compromise. what kind ofa guy he was. the game. I'll expect to hear from 
Hume and the other Reds pitchers and catchers were due to rcport to
"I went over and asked if I could you in this regard." the club's spring training camp in
have my pict'Ure taken with him," The framed letter hangs beside picture the Beta Tampa, Fla., Tuesday.
she said. "I mentioned I was from the in Pi Phi on 
. ~· 
.......... ' 

Notre Dame frontliner Carrie Bates prepares to launch a free throw. Bates sports very' impressive statistics for any player. let alone a freshman. Her "presence" will be crucial to Irish NCAA tournament hopes. For more on Carrie, see Mark Hmmuksela's story on page 12 (photo by Rachel Blount). 
Big Ten Player 
....,. 


oftheWeek 
CHICAGO (AP) -Mike Scearce The 6-7 ~cnior forward from Lexi­of Purdue has been named Big Ten ngton, Ky., scored 16 points against basketball Player of the Week for Illinois and followed that with 2S leading the Boilermakers to vic­points and I S rebounds against state tories over Indiana and lllinois. rival Indiana. 




Advancement 

College senlors.lfyou plan to get a job 
WI1HOUT 

after graduation, why not consider 
AN 
a profession? 

ADVANCED 
• In 3 months. we prepare you for 
DEGREE 

careers In law, management. finance. 
• 
Our8 Intensive courses are nationally recognized for high aca­demic quality. 

• 
Over90% ofourgraduates secure jobs In their specialties. Over 5,000 graduates hold positions In law firms. banksand corporations In 110 cities. 

• 
We provide a substanttal tuition refund Ifwe cannot secure a job for you In thecltyofyourcholce. 


Guarantee your future-Learn how the Institutecan hdpyou advance In a career. Our representative w1ll be on campus 
o Iwould like to annngean tnter-
The 

vtewatanother ttme. Please call
Institute 

meatoneofthe phones noted.
for 

0 Please send me trifonnatton about thelnstttutejor Paralegal Th:ttntng.
Pf~IZ.~ 
Name 235 s. J7th St. 


Address

Phtladelphla. PA J9J03 (215}132-elJOO 
Ctty, State, Ztp 

College 

Graduatton 1Jate_ 
( 

Openol.ld by Pan-Legal Inc. a l'etuwylwnla Corporation 

Present phone Pennanentphone 
-
..A 

I... 
I 
The Observer -Sports Tuesday, February 23, 1982-page 10. 

The Notre Dame men's fencing team, as this fencer is shown doing, parried its opponent's thrusts in trouncing Michigan State 22-5 over the 

Competition intesifies 


Battles brew between ND dorms 
MEN'S BASKETBALL -In Division A Playoff action last week Grace up-lifted its record to (9-2) in defeating 0-C, Holy Cross, Flanner, and Stanford. Their winning streak is good enough to qualify them for the champion­ship series. Their opponent will be decided the pre­vious night in a game between Holy Cross and Sorin, both of whom are responsible for Grace's losses. Grace coach Bill Beck is pleased with his team's recent perfor­
mances, though, and considers the previous losses as adding to a revenge factor, as he said, "Having played both teams I'll be able to work on specific game plans in preparation for either team. Holy Cross, with their big men, tend to play more ofan inside ·game. Sorin, on the other hand, has excellent outside shooting. Either way 
.we're going to have our hands full, but if we play the type of game we like ro, that is with a well balanced attack, I think we're just as tough ifnot tougher than any other team out there." 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL -Last night, Pasquerilla East beat Pasquerilla W:est in an interdormatory rivalry, 25,20. The "Pac East", using all its players, enjoyed an 18-8spread at half, only to have it cut to six asP-W came out shooting hot, out-scoring P-E, 8-4. Martha Eichorn had 12 points for Pasq. West, but it was'nt quite enough as Pasq. East's relentless hustle on defense rose to the occasion nipping the rally short ofan upset. Pasquerilla East coach, Mike Burke, was happy with the game and had these comments about it, "We're almost assured of a playoff birth and our aim in these last few games is to 
try new things with different players. I'd like to give all the players more game time to build their confidence. We rely heavily on our depth and strong defense by players like Pam Sturm and Kathy Marnocha, to name a few." The "Pac East" shouldn't look too far ahead, as they have an always strong 0-C team to face in the
-
meantime. 
Achieve 
your goals with us 
Prudential is the largest multi-lines insurance com­pany in America; and one of the largest financial institutions in the world. But that doesn't mean that we're only looking for business majors. There are plenty of opportunities for those in the sciences and liberal arts. . 
You see, ourdiversity and size enables us to offercareers in so many different fields that there's always something that will interest you. With us you can grow while doing what you want to do. And if you should later decide that you'd like to explore another career path, you can make your career change within ourcompany and get paid for the additional education or train­ing needed to make thattransition. There's no loss of accumulated benefits, no worries between jobs, nothing to hold you back from making or changing your personal career goals. 
So, if you're looking for a career, but are uncertain as to which career path to take, why not check out Prudentiaf and achieve your goals with us. 
We'll be on campus Tuesday, March 9th 
See the placement ·office to sign up for an interoiew, or send your resume to: 

Qi PtudentJal 
....... 
5800 Canoga Avenue, Woodland Hills, CA 91367 An Equal Opportunity and Nlirm~tive Action Employer 


SporiS Writer 
Inside lnterhaJl 
HOCKEY -Two previosly undefeated teams did battle last week as Holy Cross turned back Dillon, 6-1. The game's begining was marked by numerous penalties, as ten fouls were called in the first period. The number was cut to one, however, in the second period, as top-ranked Holy Cross establised its superiority by simply out-skating the "Big Red". 
MEN'S VOLLEYBALL -As this double-elimination tournament winds down to a final few, four teams are left to represent their divisions. Stanford, the champ of the red division will face the blue division title holder, St. Ed's. Also this week, Carroll I ofthe gold division will play Flanner's Flyers of the green league. 
WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL Tomorrow night, Pasquerilla West will play Breen-Phillips III, the winner of which will qualify for the championship match with the Breen-Phillips "Intimidators" the following night. Being a double elimination tourney, the winner of tomorrow night's match must defeat the "Intimidator" twice to claim the title crown. 
Wrestling -The NVA will be sponsoring an interhall wrestling meet for which the time and date are to be announced. The deadline for entries is tomorrow, Feb. 24, by 5 p.m.. To enter call the NVA office at 239-6100 or drop by (C-2 ACC ). 
r-~-~··-------------,

JBuy I 
I I

nL----·

! LAUM:r=ver~ i 
I Classifieds I 
··----------------~~·,J 





Cincinnati Reds acquire Clint Hurdle 
CINCINNATI (AP)-The Cincin­nati Reds, who had the best record in major league baseball in 1981, will have an all-new outfield this season because of trades and an off­season free agent defection. 
George Foster went to the New 
York Mets in a trade, Ken Griffey to 
the New York Yankees-and Dave 
Collins became a free agent and 
signed with the Yankees. 

Clint Hurdle, formerly of the 
Kansas City Royals, was obtained in a 
trade for pitcher Scott Brown last 
December and is one of the possible 
new Reds outfielders. · 

"When they called me and told me of the trade, I yelped a cry of relief," said Hurdle, who met local writers Monday."! like the Reds' or­ganization, and have always wanted to play in the National League. 
"It's all for a good purpose. I knew the trade winds were blowing. Kansas City needed pitching bad and had very little to swap with. I had some strongsignals. I played the first five games of the trip to Japan and didn't get into another game in 3 weeks." 
Hurdle, 24, hit .329 in 28 games 
for the Royals. He was on the 
disabled list with back problems 
most ofthe strike-shortened season. 
He said he would concentrate on 
just earning ing a starting job with 
the Reds, rather than set any per­
sonal goals for the 1982 season. 

"I stay away from goals now," he 
said. "If numbers are the idea, I find 
myself pressing. If I play regularly ­
and play happy -the numbers will 
come. My teammates will be happy, 
and so will the fans." 

Hurdle said he felt he had never 
reached his potential with the 
Royals, and that he was getting a new 
chance with Cincinnati. 

"I have no sob stories; I'm not 
crying over the tune. But I'm excited 
about getting a chance to be in-
continuedfrom page 12 

records and the stats, no one is ready -to graduate yet. · 
"It's called a willingness to prepare to win," says DiStanislao. "Some of these people don't know yet just how hard they can work. They all came here knowing they would have an opponunity to get in­volved in a building program. And af­ter last week, they know what it's like to play against the competition they'll be meeting for the next four years. Now it's time to realize that their play is going to characterize ourprogram. The gauntlet is down." 
Down it is, and not just on the 
future of the Irish women's basket­
ball program: there r.:main three 
li1J&I~---~-­




···-··· 

Mandatory Meeting 
Thurs., Feb. 25 at 7:00 in LaFortune 1st Floor 

BUS LEAVES MAR. 12 ROUNDTRIP-$110 BRING MONEY TO MEETING 
li(JQ~():!f ~~10'3llf~~y Thurs. 9:00--? 919 So. Bend Av. ALL AREA PEOPLEINVITED! 
volved with a club like the Cincin­nati Reds," he said. 
"A change now and then can't hun anybody. Last year was not the brightest season of my career, and it's nice to get a fresh start again, a new lease on life." 
Hurdle said he has recovered from his back injury, and that he hit .325 in 40 winter league games in the Dominican Republic. He'll wear Griffey's old No. 30, but he doesn't know where he'll fit into Manager john McNamara's batting order. 
"I have no preference, as long as I'm in the lineup; just so they don't play without me," Hurdle said. "I've watched too many games from the bench." 
Hurdle said his attitude is right for the conservative Reds, and that he's 
ready to dispell his image of  a  
"flake."  
"I'm  ready  to  jump  on  a  

bandwagon. I had a flat tire in Kansas City, and no one helped me fix it," he said. "It's time for me to grpw up. I'm no longer a star ofthe hot dog team." 
He said the "hot dog team" com­ment referred to his own former manners, not the Royals. 
In· other dealings involving Cin­cinnati, pitcher Tom Hume won his arbitration case with the Cincinnati Reds, the National League club an­nounced Monday. 
A club spokesman released the opinion delivered by the arbitrator who heard the case last Wednesday in Chicago, but the spokesman said the 'Reds would have no comment on the ruling. 
It was the second arbitration case involving a pitcher the Reds lost this season. Earlier, an arbitrator ruled in favor of Mario Soto. The Reds won their case involving a third pitcher, Frank Pastore. 
See REDS, page 9 

• • • Women 
games this season that will go a long way in determining whether Mary D's group will receive a post-season tournament bid. 
In those three games, Carrie Bates will be searching for her presence., and ifshe finds it, Notre Dame might find it has a Sheila Foster ofits own. 
As DiStanislao says, "For Carrie to become a presence for us, she needs to play with the intent to dominate. If she does that, she'll border on the unstoppable." 
That would be most pleasing to Notre Dame's second-year coach. It also would be a new kind of game for Carrie Bates. And it would give her something positive to talk about. 

' ' .Ball 

continuedfrom page 12 
hip pointer; his status is also ques­tionable .. .Jerry Hobbie, a reserve Ram freshman guard, has the third best free throw percentage in the NCAA, having hit 92 percent on the season ...Fordham lost to Seton 
Hall in December, 71-64 ...Pax­son, one of the I0 semifinalists for the James Naismith Award (for the best college basketball player ofthe year), leads the Irish in most of­fensive categories : ..he leads the Irish in scoring ( 14.5 ppg), assists (86), and steals ( 31 ) ...Senior cap­tain Mike Mitchell leads the Irish in field goal percentage (.543) and free throw percentage (.757) ...the DePaul game, originallly scheduled for this Saturday, Feb. 27, will be played on Sunday, Feb. 28. 
"·· 

lhe~r======================================= 
~ ­


~~~~~•l=============================T=u=e=sd=a=y='=Fe=b=r=u=ruy==2=3='=1=9=8=2===p=a=g=e=l=l
Molarity 
WC: PEI1ANI/ OVR TERH~ 


MARTIAL 1-A.W /IJ POL-AND, TU£ 
i.JE" DE:HAND IJ.IE" E:IJD a= BE HE"/ OR. WE'LL BLOW 
FULL RE.IN5TA1EHENf OF 71/e::' 
FlLX:tBY TE"AH NOW, Nt::bTLf.5 
CRUNOIBAR5 13E ALLDW£[) 



Doonesbury 


YOIJR flfTHER 7110IJ6HT Ya/ TH/?13& WOIJW I?&AUY MAK& SOMliTHIN6 a= TH/9 PlAC£, MIK&Y. H& 7lfJififT YCXJ'IJ IE THe MJ5T 5()CCE$RJL ffWo1CRS IN 7H3 /A/Hate CWNTY. THAT /AlAS HISC¥?EAM FOR 'fW. 


Simon 

ACROSS 25 Sports: 1 Hebrew abbr. lyres 26 Weir

The Daily Crossword 
6 Minute 28 A rolling 

©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
•

Michael Molinelli 


Campus 

•2:30 p.m.-Workshop, Megan Terry, Memorial Library Lounge, Sponsort•d by Sophomore Utcrary 
·­
Festival 

•4:1; 
p.m.-Lecture, "Cry ofthe People", Penny Lernoux, Hayes Healy Auditorium, Sponsored by Program of Latin American Studies and Center for Experiential Learning 

•6 
p.m. -Meeting, Students United for Respon· siblc Energy (SURE), 232 Madcleva Hall, SMC, All arc welcome


Garry Trudeau 
•7:30 p.m. -Film, "The Solar Promise", 35 I Madcleva Hall, Sponsored by Social Ecology Film Series 

•8 p.m. -Lecture, "Captain James Cook or the Dying God", Dr. Marshall Sahlins, Anthropologist, University of Chicago, Galvin Uf t e Science Auditorium, Sponsored by Department of Sociol· ogy and Anthropology, All welcome 

•8 p.m. -Basketball, Notre Dame Men vs. Fordham, ACC 
•s 
p.m. -Play Production, Megan Terry, LaFortune Baliroom, Sponsored by Sophomore Literary Festival 

•8: 
1; p.m. -Concen, Regina Mushabec, Cellist, Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum ofArt 

•11 
p.m. -WSND Radio, Album Hour, "The Change Has Come", Chubby Checker 


Jeb Cashin 

Y'EI\H ,'6l!T LIKE Wf\0 H~b TO t'I\V FoR THE 
J"bL'tiJ ·:; ? YOlJ 


T.V. Tonight 
7:30p.m. 

item stone 10 Let it gathers-
stand 33 City in 14 Spurn France 15 Hook and 35 "Stille-" 
ladder 38 "Baked 
residence in -" 17 Grass genus 39 Grimace 18 Mesa 40 Guide 19 Headgear 41 Succeeding 20 Silkworm 42 Handle 21 Short note 43 Whither 22 Archibald 44 Pedagogues' 
of basket· org. ball 45 -light 23 Nocturnal (compre· mammal hend)

Monday's Solution 

''.._. ~ • !,• • M•.•• • • • • • • •• • •,t• • • J.....• • ~1..'-'JtAM-A •.•At'~~"~~# •r•
lV.U• .)tUuentunronpresents. SuPHuMu~L lr..Kl\.KI rr..~llV.h..L!.. 
STUDENTUNION NITE at SENIOR BAR 
lOpm--1 am 
7:00p.m. 

47 Recipients: 12 Thrall 
suff. 13 Knight and 49 Yes Mack 50 "On land-16 Phone 
or foam" opener 8:00p.m. 53 Ova 24 Main course 55 Breakers 25 Gluck 59 Landon et al. 60 Was sick 27 Reply 62 "-a man 29 Thomas or 
8:30p.m.
I didn't Horace like" 30 Binocular 
9:00p.m.

64 Covet instrument 65 Pyrite 31 LXVII 66 Onetime 32 Bristles 
comic, Ole 34 Spruce 67 Dash 36 Passing 
lO:OOp.m.

68 Moselle grade feeder 37 Eternity 69 Common 46 Waters contraction down 48 Manatee DOWN 51 Apia Is its 
10:30p.m. 
1 Bedouin capital 2 LXXI 52 Verdugo ll:OOp.m. 3 LaScala, ot tllms 
for one 54 "Give the 
4 Capture little-again hand" 5 Scheduled 55 Spouse 
11:30p.m.
6 Consequence 56 Indigo 7 Crown plant 8 Planet 57 Mllesof 
path movies 
12:00a.m.
9 Brooks 58 Tied orTorme 61 Small 
12:30a.m.

10 Arias hollow 11 Malay term 63 Privileges: of respect abbr. 
16 MASH 22 CBS News 
"'{~ 

28 Joker's Wild 
34 MacNeil/Lehrer Report 
46 It's Your Business 
16 The Muppet Show 
22 family l'eud 
28 Tic Tac Dough 
34 Straight Talk 
46 God's News Behind the News 16 Basketball: Notre Damt· vs. fordham 22 CBS Spedal: "Ivanhoe" 28 Happy Days 34 Life on Earlh 46 Lester Sumrall Teaching 28 Laverne and Shirley 46 The Lahayes On family Lite: 16 Maverick 22 CBS Movie: "Dangerous Company" 28 Three's Company 34 Amerk'an Playhouse: 46 Today 1 with Lester Sumrall 16 flamingo Road 28 Too Close for Company 34 Marva Collins: Excdlc:nce in Educa· -
lion 46 Dwight Thompson 28 Hart To Hart 34 Were: You There? 16 NewsCc:nter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 The Dick Cavell Show 46 Praise the Lord 16 Tonight Show 22 Alice/WKRP/McCioud 
28 ABC News Nightlinc: 34 Captioned ABC News 28 l'antasy Island 46 Lester Sumrall Tea~·hing 46 Light and Lively 
-

: Don't miss: : 
: Megan.Terry-Playwrite Tues.,Feb. 23 : : • Production of3plays : • • Question &answerperiodfollowingBpm: : LaFortune Ballroom • • Marge Piercy--Novelist Wed., Feb. 24 • • • Readings 7:30pm LibraryAud..•
• •.
• Come on overafter the Fordham hoops game!! • • Workshop 2:30pm Library Lounge •
:......................................•......................................• 


..~ 
Tuesday, February 23, 1982-page 12 


Notred Dame defeats Spartans at ACC, 3-2 
By MICHAEL OLENIK and fans alike with his heads up play. 
Sports Writer 

It was Bjork who made the most vital heads up play however, when The Notre Dame hockey team he stole the puck from a Michigan 
took a big step towards a home 
State defender and set up Logan t with playoff berth by stopping second a tough pass through traffic. 
place Michigan State with a 3· 2 win After the Irish had built up the before a capacity crowd at the ACC. three goal bulge, it became apparent The win left the Irish with a 19-13-that netminder Dave Laurion would 
2 record overall and a 14-12-2 mark have to rise to the task of stopping in the CCHA, and it secured fifth the Spartan swarm. And although he place while putting the Irish in did surrender two goals in the final 
prime position for overtaking Michi­stanza, the senior from International gan for ever-important fourth place Falls, Minnesota stiffened enough to next week. 
secure the win. It was jeff Logan's tip-in from a Considering it was his first start in 
tough angle at the 13:58 mark ofthe seven games, Laurion seemed second period that proved to be the relatively pleased with the results. gamewinner, and it was the sixth "I felt a little bit rusty out there, 
win in their last seven games for the but it did feel good to see some ac­steaking Irish. 
tion. I'm just glad that they 
"It was a very good win, and I can (Michigan State) didn't cash in on all only take my hat off to the kids, " their opportunities." remarked Lefty Smith afterwards. 
Gary Harpell did cash in on his "They each gave a great effort, and just 1:04 into the final period·when Dave ( Laurion) did an outstanding his backhand trickled over Laudon's job in the nets. I was especially pads for the Spartan's first goal ofthe 
impressed with the way that we night. 
Winning confidence 
responded to the difficulties that Things got too interesting at the were caused by the injuries." 8:07 mark when ·Mark Hamway The Irish mentor spoke of a notched a powerplay goal after 

Irish ram into Fordham tonight 
broken jaw sustained by freshman taking a nice pass from Lyle Phair, center John Deasey and a bruised 
and the Spartans began a final drive 
By DAVE DZIEDZIC stretch," Phelps said. "It was typical the .Rams were 7-22. Last year, the
ankle by defensemanjoe Bowie, and to complete the comeback. 
AssociateSports Editor of this team the way they came club finished 19-9, and earned a bidto say the least, each injury took its The Irish had other ideas back." to the National Invitation Tourna­toll. 
however, and they sucessfully 
The Notre Dame basketball team · The Fordham Rams, however, ment. They dropped a one-pointBut broken shifts and all, the Irish skated out the remaining 12 minutes attempts to sustain the momentum present another problem for the decision to Dayton in the first roundcame away with a hard fought win much to the delight ofa tense group it established against South Carolina Irish. ofthe NIT.
that featured 21 penalties-many of ofonlookers. 
as the Irish host Fordham University Under four-year Head Coach Tom Penders doesn't try to hide thewhich left both coaches shaking Undoubtedly, it was a big win for 
tonight at 8 p.m. in the ACC. Penders, the Rams are 16-8 this fact that the Notre Dame game is thetheir head and the penalty box full. the Irish as they attempt to gain what "We've got nothing to lose right season, having won 12 of their last big one on Fordham's schedule. "WeKirt Bjork started the festivities seemed very improbable just one now," said Irish Coach Digger 14 contests. They are tied for first look forward to this game everywhen he deflected in a shot by Sean month ago. And the effects of the 
-~ Phelps, "and I think the South Caror­place in the new six-team Metro At­year," he says. "We played a good
Regan that glanced off of linemate win were more than noticable with lina win gave us our spirit back." lantic Conference. game here last year. I think weRex Bellomy for the ont.y goal of the the players afterwards. 
The Irish lost their spirit, as well as The Rams pride themselves on gained some confidence last yearfirst period. The puck just snuck un­"Aside from the Great Lakes Tour­the game, last Thursday at the their defense and depth. "We're not that will help us this year."
der the split legs ofSpartan goalten­ney, this was our biggest win of the Meadowlands against Seton Hall. a great shooting team," Penders says. The Irish and the Rams are veryder Ron Scott, and it brought year, and it sure feels good, " smiled The Pirates destroyed the Irish, 71-"But we play a tough defense." different clubs. While the Irish play a virtually all of the 4,287 Irish sup­a satisfied Logan. · 
58. The Rams have held their oppon­deliberate game, the Rams run, run,
porters to their feet. 

It will feel especially good if the 
But that game is behind the Irish nents to under 44 percent from the and keep running.
Am assortment of incidental Irish sweep Western Michigan next 
now. Saturday's 59-55 victory over field this season. "Basically, we play "We run against everybody," Pen­penalties plagued play until Brent week at the ACC and Michigan splits South Carolina was just what the man-to-man, but we can switch into ders says. "Our fast break is usually Chapman flipped a high shot over with first place Bowling Green. Such doctor ordered. many zones," Penders says. effective. We play aggressively
Scott's shoulder after being fed by a 
an occurence would give the Irish 
"We had our best shooting perfor­All five starters, as well as eleven against the press.
hustling Mark Doman. It was goal the home ice advantage that could mance of the year and we had the players, return to the Rams' squad. "Notre Dame is a tempo team," henumber 11 for the freshman who come in very handy. 
patience down "We're very deep," Penders says. continues. "When they shoot well,
continues to impress both players we needed the 
"We don't have any big scorers, but they're in it." everyone we have is capable ofcon­Penders appears to have done his tributing." homework well. Notre Dame's last
Women 's hoops 
junior David Maxwell is the Rams' two games have indicated that the leading scorer, averaging 10 points a Irish need accurate shooting from 
I 
-
game. The 6-2 point guard scored 16 the field in order to win. Against points in Notre Dame's 67-61 vic­Seton Hall, the Irish never got on 

l Batesnurtures 1court presence' 
tory over the Rams last season in the track from the floor, but against
By MARK HANNUKSELA Hickman Mills High School. "I think member of DiStanislao's front-line maybe I can acquire it through ex­brigade was able to effectively stop 
ACC. South Carolina, they connected on
Sports Writer 

"Maxwell Fordham's leader," to
perience. By playing rnore players Foster. But then many coaches and is their first six shots en route a 
J says Irish assistant Coach Pete Gil­season-high 63 percent.
players have experienced the same
I 
Basketball is a new game to Carrie like Sheila Foster and Kendra Gant len. "He starts them running when "We've got to try to get them to
Bates. (of Illinois), I can get to a point frustration against South Carolina's they have the opportunity, and he play quicker," Penders says. Oohn)
Not new in terms of length of where I can compete on a level even three-time All-American. 
with some ofthe better players." Perhaps also it was disappoint­slows them down when it is neces­Paxson controls the team very well.
service -no, not that way. 

ment at a second consecutive sary. We· will have to do a good He's like a coach on the floor."
New, perhaps, in terms gf, well, "Carrie Bates is not one-hill the 
defensive job on him." Gillen knows that the Ram
call it presence. That's what Mary presence she should be on the blowout, which brought the total score of last week's Irish games to Notre Dame fans will remember defense may be tough for the Irish toDiStanislao calls it. court," says DiStanislao. "She has 
159-107. Fordham mostly because of the crack. "They change defenses a lot,"DiStanislao is Bates' coach, and some excellent physical skills and a It could have been because Bates Rams' seven-foot senior center, Dud he says. "They'll try to keep us off
she has this thing about presence. tremendous physique for basketball. 
Tonga!, from Sudan, Africa. Tonga! is balance. We won't be able to rely on
scored only four of her 14 points in
She likes her players to have it on the What she needs is some strong per­the Rams' second-leading scorer, Paxson.
floor. sonal determination. the second half, when DiStanislao averaging 9.5 points per game.
"There's no reason why Carrie felt her club failed to capitaiize on an "Another key will be rebound­At times in this 16-6 season, Bates 
opportunity to take control of the "Tonga! has been here for three ing," Gillen says. "Fordham goes to
has had that presence. It has been at can't do to people what Sheila ·Foster those times that Bates has piled up did to her," she adds. "If anything, game, a failure rooted most deeply years now, and he knows how to the boards well." 
in the front line. play," Gillen says. "He's an excellent Phelps has kept his optimism,
the majority of her already­she's a better shooter than Foster is. 
leaper. It will be tough for us to con­the
impressive stats -272 points, a The ball is very squarely in her Whatever the reason, Bates had even though the post-season 
court. I hope she has learned enough few words herself in trol the inside with him in there." hopes of the 8-14 Irish are not good.
kind for
team-leading figure, despite the fact The other half of Fordham's "I still think we have a shot at the
the Kansas City, Mo., native has valuable lessons by playing against evaluating her performance to date. 
African connection, Edward Bona, is NIT ifwe win the rest ofour games,"started only three times; a . 5 79 field Foster and Kendra Gant to know And that's where the new comes in. the Rams' leading rebounder. The 6-he says. "As long as there are still
goal shooting percentage that ranks what it takes to dominate play the 
"I have learned !'<• 8, 185-pound junior forward games left on the schedule, I'm op­
I7th in the nation: a 6. 5 rebounding way she is capable of" nuch from all averages 4. 7 boards a contest. timistic about it."
Bates, following her performance the coaches," she sa·, .. "but there'saverage that is second only to class­so much more. .pecially on Steven Samuels, a 6-7 junior for­"The rest of the games" begins
mate Mary Beth Schucth's 9.4; a against Foster and South Carolina, nine-game double-figure scoring never once mentioned her positive ddense. That's her wl'· 'le game. It's ward, completes the Rams' front tonight. Let's sec what the Irish can line. do. 
spree that ended ju~t one game accomplishments in this, her first step one in this progr;.:;n. And mine has left a lot to be desired." "They have a talented team," Gil­IRISH ITEMS -Injury report: Ron
before Bates could tie a school season at Notre Dame. Instead, she Bates and her talented classmates len says. "They returned all of their Rowan is still suffering from an ankle
record. talked in negatives. are all being taken to school, so to starters. They've paid their dues he twisted before the Seton Hall
At other times, Bates has failed to When asked about her defense all continuing over the past few years, and these game; his status for tonight is ques­have that presence, and both player she answered "What defense?'; speak. They are to learn the mechanincs of the D!S­guys want to win." tionable ...Rams' 6-6 senior for­and coach realize it. When asked what area of her game tanislao system. And despite the Penders has brought the Rams a ward Bill Calhoun is suffering from a"I know she wants us to have that needed the most work, she long way since assuming the job for presence on the floor," says Bates, a answered "You name it." 
See WOMEN, page 10 the 1978-79 season. In his first year, See BALL, page 10three-sport letter winner while at Perhaps it was frustration. No 




