
• • .Blood-page 7 
-~---------------------------------------------------------~---------------------------------------------------­


'Great yarnspinners' 
Wagoner recites poetry, prose 
By CECILIA LUCERO 
News Staff 
Humorist David Wagoner spoke last night as part of the Sophomore Literary Festival. Wagoner's prose and poetry style has been compared to that of Mark Twain, as the Philadelphia Inquirer de!>cribes Wagoner as "one of the great yarnspinners." 
Reciting for a capacity crowd at the Memorial Library Auditorium, Wagoner offered a cross-section of his literary works -poetry which expressed his childhood memories, nature, and the revival of Indian myths. 
Wagoner opened the .program with a sampling of his "religious" poetry, "Boy Jesus" and "Jeremiad." These humorously sardonic poems poked fun at Wagoner's boyhood ex­periences of grade-school religious pageants. "My Father's Ghost" was a touching remembrance of Wagoner's father, who had worked in the steel mills oflndiana. 
Wagoner also reveals his admira­tion of nature as exemplified in his selection "The Author of American Orthinology, Now Extinct." In "Winter Wren" and "Kingfisher," Wagoner explains that in his own way he tries to reproduce activities of birds using the rhythms of lan­guage_ to imitate the sounds of birds. 
The poem that received the most enthusiasti<; response, •nother humorous selection -"Medusa's Lover" -about the mythological snake-haired creature, was written only three days before its recital last night. 
As a novelist, Wagoner's works in­clude Rock, The Road to Mtmy a 
See POETRY, page 5 

Testimony ends in Atlanta murder 
ATLANTA (AP) -Testimony ended in Wayne Williams' murder trial yesterday after nine weeks and 197 witnesses, with his mother lamenting that the ordeal has "ruined" her family. The explosive case could go to the jury as early as this evening. 
"Wayne's character has been drug through the mud," Faye Williams told jurors as she returned to the stand as a rebuttal witness for the defense. "My husband's character ha..~ been drug through the mud ... Tht• Williams family has been 
If Notre Dame students come out of their boles and see the ruined. 
Dome's reflection, then at least three weeks of winter remain. "They continue to lie and lie and 
(photo bv Carrie Koplin) lie, but they have not produced 
Kansas City hotel 


Panel finds design inadequate 
W ASIIINGTON (AP) The Kansas City hotel walkways which collapst·d and killed I I 3 people last summer wt·re designed to support less than a third of the weight capacity required by city codes, federal investigators said yesterday. 
"This whole walkway (system) was inadequately designed," said Dr. Edward 0. Pfrang, who ht·aded tht· federal investigation by the National Bureau of Standards into the acci­dent at the Hyatt Regency Hotel. Tht· bureau released its tlndings in a 349-pagc report. 
Neithl'f the architects nor the engineering company involved in designing the structure would com­mt.·nl on the federal report. 
The architenure was done by the firm of Patty, Bt·rkt·bile, Nelson, Duncan. Monroe, Lefebvre, Ar­chitects Planners, Inc.. of Kansas City. The engineering firm was Gillum-Colae<> Structural Engineers ofSt. Louis. 
In earlkr l'ourt d(Jl'Umcnts, the ar­chitectural lirrn claimed the walkways were "safe, propt·rly 
erected,  properly  inspected  and  
properly  and  adequately  sup­ 
ported."  

The tragedy last July 17 was the most devastating structural collapse ever in the llnitl·d States. In addition to those killed, more than .200 people, most of them atecnding an evening tt·a dance, were injured. 
The federal investigation said the quality of workmanship and the matl·riab ucd in the walkways were not to blame for the collap~c. But it condudcd the design of the support stucturc was totally inadequate and 
could not even hold a third of the 
weight required for such a structure 
by Kansas City building codes. 
Two of the three hotel walkways, 
all suspended by steel rods that hung 
from the hotel ceiling, collapsed ­
throwing steel, concrete and b()dks 
onto the crowded hotel atrium 
where the tea dance was under way. 
Officials said about 63 people were 
believed to be on the two walkways. 
Investigators said the walkways gave way when the hanging rods pulled through the box beams that conn,ected the rods to the fourth floor walkway. That walkway then fell on top of the second tl()(~r walkway, causing both to plunge to the atrium tloor. 
The Bureau of Standards said city building codes required such a walkway to hold a total of 68,000 pounds, including the structure it­self. But the investigators said the support structure as designed could bear only 21,·fOO pounds. 
Furthermore, the report said, a decision during construction to l·hangc the design "further ag­gravated an already critical situa­tion" since it placed additional stress on the six support beams that held up the fourth-floor walkway. 

Pfrang, chidofthe structural divi­sion at the standards bureau, said the original design also would have bccnfar short of meeting city code standards, but in all probability would have preventc:d the July 17 disaster. 
He declined to speculate why the design was changed. but ack­nowledged it made the structure easier to build and, thereby, less ex­pensive. 
No firm has acknowledged initiat­ing the design change. Some have pointed the linger at each other in court documents related to lawsuits that have been filed in connection with the tragedy. 
The original design approved by 
See DESIGN, page 5 
evidence that my son is a killer," she said. 
Superior Court Judge Clarence Cooper scheduled closing argu­ments for today after denying defense lawyer Alvin Binder's mo­tion to dismiss the two murder charges against the 23-year-old black free-lance photographer and aspiring talent promoter. 
"The must we've got in this mur­der case is speculation," Binder argued in his motion for a directed verdict ofacquittal. 
Cooper did not indicate whether he would place a time limit on closing arguments. The judge also did not say whether he would charge the jury immediately after the arguments. 
When jurors do begin delibera­tions, they will be faced with decid­ing one of the most difficult and closely watched cases in recent U.S. criminal history. 

Wiliams has pleaded innocent to charges that he murdered Nathaniel Cater, 27, and Jimmy Ray Payne, 21. They were two of the 28 young blacks slain in a 22-month string of killings that captured international attention before the slayings ended last year. 
No arrests have been made in the 26 other cases, but prosecutors con­
tend the Cater and Payne deaths arc part of a pattern of killings that in­cludes I0 additional slayings of 
young blacks. 
Prosecutors, who concede their case is circumstantial, produced ex­perts who said fibers found on the bodies ofthe victims matched t fibers taken from Williams' home and car. Other witnesses· placed Williams with seven of the 12 victims and portrayed him as a homosexual with a violent temper who··hatt·d poor young blacks. 
Defense witnesses depicted Wil­liams as a man more concerned with helping young blacks than with his own success. The defense also ques­tioned the reliability of prosecution witnesses, denied that Williams is a homosexual and presented fiber ex­perts to dispute the state's fiber evidence. 
Henry). Ingram, a parking lot at­tendant and a prosecution rebuttal witness, testified yesterday that he saw Williams and his father fighting and that Mrs. Williams was present. 
Mrs. Williams said she did not 
remember the incident. She also 
denied a teenager's testimony that 
her son had beaten her husband 
during an argument at their home in 
1979. 
See related photos on page two. 

Hashish charges 

Saint Mary 's students get sanctions 
BY DIANE DIRKERS 
StaffReportt>r 
Sanctions imposed on Saint Mary's students involved in a hashish crackdown in the lnnsbruck program will be similar to those imposed on Notre Dame students, according to Saint Mary's Dean of Student Affairs Kath­leen Rice. 
Although the general disciplinary policies of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's differ somewhat, Rice states she "has been working together with Dean Roemer and Father Van Wolvlear discussing alternative disciplinary sanctions and procedures. We all kit we should impose similar or identical sanctions since the two institutions arc so interrelated." 
This semester, the Saint Mary's students arc being placed under Notre Dame disciplinary probation, which stipulates that any further infractions will result in immediate dismissal from the foreign program. As in the case with the Notre Dame students, the Saint .\1ary's students will be dismissed from the college at the end of this term, with opportunity for readmission in the fall. From this point, Saint Mary's administration uses their own disciplinary procedures. 
"Any student readmitted to the college will be put on social probation for one year. Social probation places them on a marginal relationship with Saint Mary's," Rice explained. "One infraction ofregulations may mean dis­missal from the college." This is equivalent 10 Notre Dame's policy ofdisciplinary probation. 
In addition, the students "cannot take part in any major co-curricular activities such as varsity sports and major student government -including student body, class, and freshmen orientation offices," stated Rice. 
((There is no guarantee, though, that they will get back on campus." 
Implied in the dismissals, come this spring, are the loss of pre-registration and room selection priviledgcs. However, the students "will be placed on a waiting list for housing, should they be readmitted." 
"There is no guarantee, though, that they will get back on campus," Rice continued. 
Disciplinary files will not be placed on any of the Saint Mary's student's permanent college record, according to Rice. 


News Brie!§ 
Hy The Obseruer and The Associated Press 
The Video tape showings oflast week's Nestle IN FACT debate, scheduled for this weekend, have.been cancelled. Student Activities Director James McDonnell cancelled the showings after meeting with Father John Van Wolvlear, vice-president for student affairs. The tape is the property of the World Hunger Coalition, and was sent to National INFACT Chairperson Douglas Johnson in Min­neapolis for review following McDonnell's cancellation. -The Ob­server 
Eleven cars ofa Georgia railroad train derailed yesterday 
near downtown Greensboro, leaking a toxic chemical and forcing 
the evacuation of most of the town's 2,985 residents. officials said. 

Mayor james P. Smith said a state of emergency was declared after ·the 6:50 a.m. derailment off the 27-car train. No injuries were reported, and the cause of the accident was not immediately determined. Harry Murphy, spokesman for the state Department of Transportation identified the chemical as phosphorus trichloride. Smith said the substance "when breathed in high concentrations can cause skin burns and lung damage." City Clerk Charlton Veazey said the chemical could explode when mixed with water, so city workers were closing off sewer lines. The National Weather Service predicted a chance of rain later in the day. "The majority of the 
citizens ofGreensboro have been evacuated by noon," said Veazey. Most were taken to Union Point, seven miles east. -AP 
A .Peruvian woman who had swallowed about 6o balloons filled with cocaine went into a seizure aboard a jet from South America and died of an apparent drug overdose, Inglewood Calif. police said. Rebecca Focacci de Brandon, 50, died Wednesday at Centinela Hospital, where X-rays revealed the balloons, said Lt. Ray Smith. The smuggling method and resulting fatalities are "fairly common," Smith said. Paramedics met the plane when it landed at Los Angeles International Airport on Tuesday morning. The drug overdose was suspected after hospital personnel found 24 drug­filled balloons hidden in the Lima woman's clothing. That cocaine was worth an estimated $150,000, said Smith. An autopsy was scheduled today, a coroner's spokesman said. -AP 

Lee County Sheriff Harold Thomas, accused of sexually harassing four female employees, resigned his post yester­day in the town ofSanford, N.C. District AttorneyJohn Twisdale had said he would begin action Mar. I to remove Thomas from office if necessary. In a letter addressed to reporters, Thomas said he believed resignation was in the best interest of his family and resi­dents of the county. He said he would seek re-election. Last week, the district attorney released statements from four women accusing Thomas of sexual improprieties. Twisdale said his office also had evidence of irregularities involving the use of vending machine profits and the sale of weapons. Thomas said the accusations were politically motivated and without factual basis. After the resignation, Twisdale said he considers the case closed. -AP 
Interior Secretary James Watt was cited for con­tempt of Congress yesterday in a vote that could set the stage for a historic confrontation between the legislative and executive branches of the government. The House Energy and Commerce Committee approved the contempt resolution 23-19, four months after Wa~t invoked President Reagan's claim ofexecutive privilege in refusing to produce documents relating to Canadian energy and in­vestment policies. The vote sends the issue to the full House, which must decide whether to seek criminal prosecution. Contempt.is a misdemeanor punishable by up to S1,000 in fines and up to a year in jail. The committee reserved the option of calling for Watt to be arrested by the sergeant-at-arms and brought before the House for inquiry and possible imprisonment; however; that course, technical­ly a civil proceeding, has not been followed for more than 100 years and is considered unlikely. -AP 
Senate liberals led by Lowell Weicker, R-Conn., today abandont:d a month-long battle to block tough new anti-busing legislation, clearing the way for certain Senate approval of the bill early next week. Weicker, running out of supporters qn the floor, called off a filibuster against the bill that had kept the Senate in ses­sion until I :30 a.m. today. A final vote on the bill, which would impose stringent curbs on court-ordered busing to achieve racial balance in public schools, was scheduled for Tuesday. Senators favoring the bill are in a solid majority. The liberals had fought the legislation for nine months, and still had 70 hours ofdebate remain­ing before Senate Majority Leader Howard H. Baker Jr., R-Tenn., vowed to end the filibuster. "I intend to finish this bill," Baker said before Weicker and his allies, who had been using Senate rules to postpone a final vote, gave up the fight. -AP 
The Reagan administration, saying it cannot 
defend an 1!-year-old government ban on tax breaks for racially biased private schools, asked the Supreme Court yesterday to ap­point a special advocate to support the prohibition. The unusual request came as the justice Department, in a reversal ofthe position it took six weeks ago, said the high court should settle the bitterly waged dispute after all. The administration said in documents filed with the Supreme Court it believes Congress, if it wished, could deny exemptions to racially biased schools, even if they base their discriminatory policies on religious grounds. But the government made clear it still does not believe Internal Revenue Service bureaucrats had the authority to impose the tax-exemption ban in 1970. That's why it's asking to have someone else to defend the IRS policy. The Reagan administration touched offa storm ofprotestJan. 8 when it said the Supreme Court should drop the case because the government intended to reverse the tax-exemption policy. -AP 
Mostly clear today and tonight. Cold with the high today around 30 and the low tonight around 10. Tomorrow partly cloudy and not as cold with the high in the mid and upper 30s. -AP 

Friday, February 26, 1982 -page 2 
Homer Williams, left, assists the family dog .'11.onday after the dog was presented to the jury bearing the case ofWayne Williams. The dog was brought to court to show itsphysical condition. 

Faye and Homer Williams, parents ofWayne B. her heart she does not believe anyone like him is Williams walk from the Fulton Co. Courthouse in responsible for the slayings of 28 young blacks. Atlanta. The mother testified Monday saying that Williams is charged in the murders oftwo Atlanta herson is not a homosexualand that deep down in blacks. 
Design Editor................... Ddrdr~ Murphy Design Assistants...................... Tim Farr~ll 
Paul McGinn Typesetter............. . . ........... Hruce Oakley Neu•s Editor........... ....... David Rickabaugh Copv Editors ................ .............. Rich Adam Paul ~lcGinn Features Layout.. .... Gregory Swicrcz .\ports Cop)' Editor.... ..... ·Rogk' Dzi~dzic Typists.. ........ Laura Degnan John McCarthy ND Day Editor................ Tom Maclennan SMC Day Editor............... Toni Rutherford Ad Design.................................John & Mary Photographer........................ Carrie Koplin Guest Appeqrances....... Griffin and O'Gill Prod Canoonists Joe I and Joe 2 
Brow~ic 

'"Oh baby, you don't knou• u•hat I've 
done..." 

The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng e~am and vacat1on penods The Observer 1s publ1sned by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys Col­lege Subscr~ptlons may be purchased for $25 per year IS15 per semester) by wnt1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
AP 

Photo File 
Wayne B. Williams /~aves the Fulton Co. jail Wednesday morning to his trail where be is charged with the murders oftwo {ltlanta blacks. It was the third day on the witness stand as the prosecution finished its questioning. 


THE NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S THEATRE PRESENTS 


THE WILD DUCK 
BY HENRIK IBSEN 
FEBRUARY 26, 27 ; MARCH 4, 5 , 6 8=00 PM WASHINGTON HALL 
FOR INFORMATION CALL 284-4176 Opening night patrons will receive one complimentary ticket f;,r each regularly purchased ticket. 

The Observer Friday, February 26, 1982-page 3 
: ~i&J eh Kebae 'Otuece ~ ~'& 'B 'B TOOHtwi!mt :
Panel discusses Hinckley trialdate 
: 'De'Pew£ Safwuloy. 'febluulray 27 at 4:00fHtt at lice A.C.C. • 
• ~= FRee :
WASHINGTON (AP)-A federal The appeals panel acted on a mo­psychology available ... I think it's appeals panel canceled the Mar. 9 tion by U.S. Attorney Stanley S. Har­time to proceed and proceed im· 
: fWh.fillle mfivi~W3 = : 
trial date for pn:sidential assailant ris. The prosecutor said that if the t mediately." 
John W. Hinckley Jr. late yesterday trial begins Mar. 9, the government Hinckley, 26, sat nearly motion· • 'Oiblll!ljdtuj --'6Wcg lice llid6 IIJ ltl8!l Jt(icl,ey Hf.ou6e IJIId 'OIIcLIM 'Ouclt • -only six hours after the date was may lose its chance to seek review of less as Parker tried to bring him set by a lower court. the ruling barring the prosecution closer to the day when a jury will 
The U.S. Court of Appeals ruled evidence. determine whether he will be sent that the trial could not be scheduled The government has 45 days to to prison or a mental institution for until the government decides ask the full 11-mt:mber appellate wounding Reagan, White House whether to seek rehearing of a deci· court for a review of the evidence press secretaryJames Brady and two sion that barred usc of notes and a ruling handed down last Tuesday by law enforcement t officers. oral statement obtained from the same three-judge panel that can­Hinckley has pleaded innocent by Hinckley. celled the trial date. reason of insanity to a 13-count in­• 
Prosecutors had sought to in­Thus, it appeared that Hinckley dictment which could bring him life • trmluce that evidence as part of will not face trial for at least a year imprisonment. The charges include: : their argument that Hinckley was after the day he fired upon the presi­attempting to kill the president, as­• sane when he shot President Reagan dent and his entourage outside a sault on a federal officer, usc of a and three Olhers last Mar. ~0. But the Washington hotel. firearm during commission of a appeals court, on Tuesday, The panel had ruled that the federal offense, assault·with intent to prohibited use of the materials. govt:rnmcnt could not usc an oral kill while armed, assault with a dan· 
The three-judge panel's two-page statement made by Hinckley the day gcrous weapon, assault on a police order yesterday placed the case un­of the shooting and handwritten officer and carrying a pistol wit!lout der the higher court's control rather notes taken from his cell lastJuly be­a license. 7 Academy Award Nominations 
than in the hands of U.S. District cause the evidence was obtained in The potential trial delay centers including BEST PICTURE Judge Barrington D. Parker. violation ofthe defendant's constitu­around evidence the government 
WARREN 

A Rivetingtional rights. 

BEATTY
Earlier in the day, Parker set Mar. wants to use to prove Hinckley's andDIANE9 as the day for Hinckley to go on After issuing its ruling Tuesday, sanity -an oral statement from on Enthralling
KEATON 
~ Aim. secretary, a Secret Service agent and usual step o immediately sending written notes seized from his cell in trial for wounding Reagan, his press the three-judge panel took the un­the day of the shooting and hand­
~

1~(~()5 ' 
~CHABJ:-;-:-::~o=TS,....,OF=r=IRE=

a policeman. the case back to Parker. Usually the July. Though a three-judge panel of 
~;I~~~~~OUNT
process ofsending a case back to the the U.S. Court ofAppeals ruled Tues­
oShows:l I.El 
trial judge after an appellate ruling day that the evidence was obtained 

:00-4:30-'7:00-9:30 
takes several weeks. illegally, U.S. attorney Stanley Harris 
Parker said he interpreted the told Parker the government might panel's action as a "green light" to seek a rehearing by the full 1I· get the trial moving. member court. 

Nazz 
announces 
Parker said that since the Mar. 30 The government has 45 days to shooting, "Mr. Hinckley has been ex­petition for a rehearing, but Harris


competition 
amined and re-examined by every said the decision could be made by 

THENROTC 
~ CALL TODAY FOR 5 
("4 -1






G RESERVATIONS!
SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM. 
! ~
Let the Easy Bider make your Springtime travellwsle·free!

TUITIONPLUS 
$2,000 EXPENSE MONEY ANDA NAVY OFFICER COMMISSION TMe two-year NROTC 2 year Scholarship Program offers tuition P1us two years of expense money that's 1~orth up to $2, :JOO, and the challenge of becoming a Navy Officer with early respon5ibilities and decision-making aur.hority. During your last two years in college the Navy pays for tuition, uniforms, a11 textbooks and an a11 owa nee of $100  ~ · ~ ~ -. = ~ g....,. ~I=  EASY RIDER to O'Hare LUVI 4.1AJVE woru DAME o·H.UE s3o a.m. 1:oo a.m. 6 3o a.m. 8:ooa.m 8:30a.m. 10:00 a.m. 10:30 a.m. 12 00 noon 1230 2:p.m. :oop.m.2:30p.m. 4:00p.m. 4:3op.m. 6 oo p.m. 6:30p.m. 8:00p.m.  EASY AMTRAK RIDER LEAVE AUJVE woru DAME AJ(TUI[ 9:38a.m. 10 10 a.m. 11 :1aam 11 50 a.m. 2:38p.m. 3 10 p.m. 3:2~ p.m. 4 00 p.m. 3 6 35~: 0Pp·.mm.. p.m037:35p.m.  United Limo's Easy Rider will get you to O'Hare or t~e Niles Amtrak depot economically, comfortably, and on time! Obtain tickets from your favorite travel agent or any United Limo office. Please make reservations at least 48 hours in advance for guarantee.  ;I ~~ c !:1!: :I (:;  
a month for up to 20 months. Upon graduation and completion of requirements, you become a Navy Officer, with important·  
decision-making responsibilities. Call your Navy representative for more this challenging program.  information on  
NROTC  UNIT,  UNIVERSITY OF  NOTRE  DAME  
239-6442  

NAVY OFFICERS GET RESPONSIBILITY FAST 
expert in the field of psychiatry and next week. 
Are you a student in the Notre 

Dame/Saint Mary's college com­
munity? Do you have a musical 
talent of any sort? If so, then now is 
your chance for a little publicity and 
a shot at winning some prize cash 
awards in the fifth annual Nazz 
Music Competition. 
The competition is open to all students and no prerequisite of prior performancc:s in the Nazz is necessary. "In fact," stated Nazz director John Warnock, "we strong­ly urgt· 'nevcr-bcforc:-secn' acts to entt·r tht· competition." 
The deadline for the show is noon on feb. .2H. The actual competition begins at H p.m. sharp on March S anu 6. Each at must limit their stage time to IS minutes. The Entries will bl· judgc:d on musicianship; originality; effect/intensity/impact; choice of music; and stage presenta­tion. The prizes for tht· show arc: first place· S I SO; second place-S 12S; thiru plan·-S I 00; fourth place-S7S; and fifth place-SSO. 
The show is free to all, anu there's plenty of sitting space in the downstairs of Lafortum:. 
Applications are now available for commiSSIONERS and COmPTROLL.ERS 
Commissions open: ,
14
s. 4 • 
OcJQ/ v' 

c.u\~uto.\ ~t\S 
Due bnck ffinrch 3 And cnn be picked up nt S.U. Office 2nd Floor LnFottune 

TO GET ON THE ROAD AGAIN•••GOING PLACES THAT I'VE NEVER BEEN:
• 

,..,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.....,,,1 

~ THENAZZannounce~ ~· ~ The 1982 ~! MUSIC COMPETITION! I 
~ March 5&6 
I'

! ~ 
i Applications now available at the ~ ! ND Student Union Office ~ i Due by 1:00pm Sun. Feb. 27 J. 
~ PRIZES! PRIZES! PRIZES! ~ ! 1st $150 4th $75 ! 
~ 2nd $125 5th $50 ~
1 1
3rd $1oo 
I ~ 
~ Have Questions?CallJohn 3323 ~ 
~ ~
..........,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.. 


-------------------· -----------------­
Friday, February 26, 1982-page 4
The Observer· 

ri.............................., Nine-year comparison :MeetYourMajor-4 i Pollindicates conservative shift 
: MeetYour oG ~ : Freshmen who entered the Uni­losing adherents nationwide from cent). versity of Notre Dame last fall were 45.2 percent in 1972 to 43 percent Substantial shifts in attitudes
i Major Q~ ~ i more politically and socially con­in 1981. toward the lega,Iization of marijuana servative than their counterparts The liberal position declined from and the size offamilies took place at
• 7pm ~~· ·~ • nine years ago, according to a recent 34.5 percent in 1972 to 20 percent Notre Dame from 1972 to 1981. In 
• o~).: Sunday • 
statistical survey. in 1981 at Notre Dame, while falling 1972, 53.4 percent of Notre Dame's 
: ~ Feb.28 : The survey, administered by the from 36.7 to 26.2 in the national freshmen believed that "large Freshman Year of Studies Office, in sample. families should be discouraged." In cooperation with the American Asked to identify those objectives 1981, only 28.9 percent would en­
t.....................~~~ Council on Education's Cooperative they considered important, Notre dorse that belief. In 1972, 47.8 per­Institutional Research Program Dame freshmen endorsed goals cent of the Notre Dame freshmen 
r~~~~~~~-~~~~~~~~~ 
( CIRP), compared the attitudes of" reflcting a considerable interest in thought that marijuana should be the 1981 incoming Notre Dame careers and family. In 1981, 74.2 legalized, and in 1981 only 20.9 per­
~ ~lA£1\ £lJlllJI!AlAI!IS fiSII\1Al1CJS1 ~ 
freshmen with those of a national pecent of them wanted to "be an cent thought so. ~ ~ sample of American freshmen at authority in my field," an increase of Notre Dame students seem to like ~ ()If?§£>lit§I ~ private, highly selective universities 11.2 percent from those surveyed in being where they are. Eighty-eight and with Notre Dame Freshmen in 1972. The number of Notre Dame percent of Notre Dame's entering
~ ~ 
1972. freshmen endorsing the objective of freshmen indicated that Notre Dame In 1981, 32 percent of Notre "raising a family" has increased was their first choice for a univer­

~ ••w§()~l--~ 
Dame's freshmen described their moderately since 1972, from 71.3 sity, compared with 75 percent in political orientation as percent to 76.5 percent. Raising a the national group of students at 
"conservative," increasing by 15 family seemed less attractive to the highly selective private universities. percent the number of those willing national group, in which 68.9 per­

~ [)irn~ll§iC)fl§ C)f S()irit!! l 
~ ~ 
to do so in 1972. A slightly larger cent of the freshmen endorsed that
~ Sc:lutli 13£>11cl41£>~ (liuu:li£>§ Jlf?lf()fflllll~ ~ 
percentage ofNotre Dame freshmen objective. endorsed the conservative position More freshmen at Notre Dame
~ --~~~~~-~--~· ~ An Tostal
than their counterparts in the na­than in the national group believe tional sample, where 29 percent did that the death penalty should be
~ ~ 
so. The dominant "middle of the abolished (39.4 percent to 34.6 per­
~ Su11cl~'~ ft?l:>ltJ~Il :IS Ja()() ()Ill ~ 
road" political orientation has not cent), and far fewer Notre Dame 


appoints

fluctuated much at Notre Dame, freshmen than in the national group~ lll:>l~ll Aucllt()flurn t increasing from 45.4 percent in believed that abortions should be ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' 1972 to 47 percent in 1981, while legalized (23.1 percent to 63 per-

committee 
By RICH COPPOLA 
News Staff 
An Tostal Chairman Kevin Cawneen recently announced his appointments to the !982 Executive Staff. An Tostal, Notre Dame's annual spring ritual, is scheduled for April 21-24. 
Senior Maggie McFarland will be assistant chairman with respon­sibility over day events. Assisting McFarland as day chairmen are junior Kathy Rownd and sophomore Maggie Walsh (Thursday), junior Mike Perez (Friday), and senior Tim Kenny (Saturday). 
Appointed to the post of vice chairman was senior Eric Bononi. jody Drancik, also a senior, will aid Bononi as the Keeper of the Zoo. Bononi and Drancik will be respon­sible for the overall coordination of both special and night events. 
Tom Drouillard and Miriam Thomas, both seniors, will organize most of the night events, and sopho­more Davejakopin will run Saturday night events. Senior Katie Hammer has been appointed special events chairman. The Bookstore Basketball Tournament, perhaps the most popular special event, will be run by Observer staffer Dave Dziedzic. 
Cawneen's other appointments include seniors Kathy Maher as comptroller and Elaine Lack as secretary. Senior Beth Lochtefeld will design the An Tostal booklet, while senior Rich Coppola will handle all other publicity. jennifer Flynn, a senior, will be in charge of personnel and junior jay Reidy will run mobilization. Finally, senior Kevin Tindell will be in charge of hall chairmen in his position as "Head Lion Tamer." 
Cawneen wishes to remind stu­dents that plenty of work needs to be done in order to make this year's An Tostal a sucess. · Anyone in­terested in such work is urged to at­tend an organizational meeting Sunday at 7 p.m. in LaFortune's Little Theatre. 

~-~~fE·o·ARHoUSEl 
i• Beer ·-, I
: r Open till i!• tquor 3:00am!!! 
=• Carry out 
-SINGlES BAR -BOOZE &DANCING 272-7818 
U.S. 31 North 
(I block south of Holida!l Inn) ...;
-...,.....__,_;._____ 


The Observer Friday, February 26, 1982 ·_ page 5 
...Design 

C(mtinuedfrom page I 
tht· city called for a single set ofsup· port rods to hang from the atrium ceiling and pass through the support bt·ams of both the fourth-floor and second-floor walkways. The weight ofeach walkway thereby would pass directly to the rods, investigators said. 
But the report said a decision was made during construction to hang the fourth-floor walkway from one set of rods and then hang the se<:ond-floor walkway directly from the fourth-floor walkway. 
That. design caused the connect­ing beams on the fourth floor arc required by the codes. 
City officials were not required to approve the design change made af. ter construction was begun and there was no indication the change was submitted to the city, Pfrang said. 
Kansas City officials involved in 
the approval of the designs could 
not be reached for comment on the 
federal findings. 
The federal report gave no indica­tion whether the architects and buil­ders of the walkways city codes. Pfrang said the investigators, who did not have subpoena power, were kept from seeing the structural design calculations used by the en­gineers. 
Pfrang said the bureall. asked all parties involved in building the hotel for a "laundry list" of docu­ments and for the most part, they complied. He said when the design calculations were requested, however, the investigators were told they could not be provided "due to the litigation" under wav. 
Spokesmen for Havens Steel Mo., the Kansas City steel fabricator that biilt the walkways, and Eldridge & sons Construction Co., the hotel's general contractor, said they believed the federal report ex­onerated them in connection with the collapse. 

walkway to bear the weight of both walkways and "essentially doubled the load of the t(JUrth floor connec­
...Poetry

tions" that tore lose on July 17, the rt·port said. 
Pfrang said the original design was approved by city authorities, who made "some changes" to the proposal, but did not grasp the fact that the design would be far short of meeting the strength standards that 

Philosophy meeting scheduled 
The Philosophy Department will conduct a "Meet Your Major" in­t(>rmation session on Sunday, Feb. .28 at 8: I'5 in Room 331 of O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
All students interested in declar­ing a philosophy major should make plans to attend. 
Refreshments will he servt•d at the meeting. Anyone wishing further in­formation should contact either Professor Richard Foley or Professor Mkheal l.oux in Room 3.37 of O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
continuedfrom page I 
Wonder, Tracker, Whole Hog, and his most recent, The Hanging Gar­den. A 196'5 novel, The Escape Art­ist, has been adapted into a movie by Francis Ford Coppola and is soon to be released. 
Wagoner's short stories and poetry have been seen in major publications such as The New Yorker, Poetry, Accent, and Satur­day Review. His poetry collections include Sleeping in the Woods, Travelling Light, and Broken Country. 
Wagoner's Who Shall be the Sun? expresses the myths, legends, and folklore of the Indians. 
A native of Massillon, Ohio, Wagoner spent his childhood in Whiting, Indiana. He graduated from Penn State University in 1947 with a Bachelor of Arts degree. Two years later, he received his Masters De­gree from Indiana University. Begin­ning his career as a journalist, Wagoner turned to writing novels, short stories and poetry because it offered more literary freedom. With journalism, Wagoner feels that "the subject chooses you" -because 






EASY RIDER 
TO AID BOll CHICAGO'S O'BABI IVIBY 2 BOUBS IVIBY DAY 


'UnitedUmo 
fills w«?l2t?llcl~ §()t?llcl §()rnf? ~oocl tlrnt?s wltlr ~cl frlt?llcls cat flit? ~c1zz! 
Tonight: 9-10:30 The rock sensations of TOM KOVACEVIC 10:30-? Folk music of DON WOLFORD and JACK JONES 
Tomorrow: 9-10:30 MARYBETHHOCKS and CAROLYN CURRAN -vocal and guitar­
10:30-?"SUNDOWNE" -country, folk and rock 
editors assign stories. 
Wagoner taught at Penn State and DePauw University before becom­ing an English professor at the Uni­versity of Washington in Seattle. 
He also serves as a Chancellor of the American Academy of Poets and previously held positions as editor for Straw for the Fire: From the Notebooks of Theodore Roethke, 
1943-1963, a work by his mentor, Rocthke. Wagoner also served as editor for the magazine "Poetry Northwest." In 1976, Wagoner was 
nominated  for  a  National  Book  
Award  for  his  Collected  Poems  
1956-1976.  


PITTSBURGH CLUB SPR NG BREAK. BUS Sign-ups: THIS SUNDAY--FEB. 28 8:00Pm in LaFottune Little TheGtet 
Bus leaves N.D. Ftlday, march 12 at 4:00Pm from th~ C.C.E. Bus returns on Sunday, march 21 at1:00 Pm from the Greyhound Terminal In Downtown Pittsburgh. 
Cost: S45.00RoundTtip S29.000neWay 
Payment must be made in full at sign-ups. No Refunds. Questions--Call BRIAN EICHENLAUBat1581 
4 
•I I 
I 
Wnte Daytona Beach Resort Area 1 Mr. Charles Humphrey 
P.O. Box 2169. Daytona Beach. fL 32015 I 
I I 


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
r-


Editorials 
Friday, February 26, 1982-page 6 

No such thing as The Good Old Days 
College students today are con­fast becoming the definition of ly for today's college students, who a priority of personal gain. Instead, servative. That's a generalization al­success. Too fast. "Making money have encountered only the inef­today's conservative collegians have Tom Jackmu most irritatingly broad in its scop~. was a reason for going to college for fective liberal federalism of the only a distant awareness of military 
Seventies. As students grew up, the defense in the nuclear age. A four­
and depressingly correct in its ac­49.9 percent in 1971 and 63.4 per­curacy. The statistics continue to cent last year," the survey said, and overall increase in the standard of year stint in the service tends to make 
motiv_a!ed l:l_r_fear, which is quite un­confirm this, from Observer polls to "65.2 percent said 'being well-off 
living was overshadowed by the humans much more aware of the derstandable, but both are incorrecl. 
national surveys, but numbers don't overgrown government structure reality of killing other humans. Most
financially' is a very important goal Maintaining the status quo, or return­explain one thing: why? Why is this in life." This sort of crass which was failing to control infla­don't like that reality, and work to ing to the Good Old Days, will not huge and potentially formidable tion. avoid it, but this generation may
materialism seems almost vulgar, 
solve the problems facing today's group of voters shifting from the especially in the context of idealism Modern government hasn't been proceed on its success-oriented world. Statistics prove that cham­progressivism of the Sixties to the working, students rationalize, so the climb, without an understanding of
we expect of academia, but wealth is pionship sports teams that maintain regressivism of the Eighties? When becoming the main criteria of Right's policies of returning to the the responsibilities of national the same lineup rather than changedid the Left lose its appeal to college whether one has "made it" in life, old days seem pretty good. As the defense or the undesirability of with the times always fail quicklyRepublican party successfully (and warfare-of any kind. 
students, and what has made the and students still want success-ap­
(watch the L.A. Dodgers collapseRight look better? parently, regardless of the terms. correctly) advertised in 1980, This conservatism, materialism, 
this year). The way to solve problems Let's go back to the numbers for a Another indication of the Rignt­Democrats have been pretty much in or whatever, among tomorrow's is to actively attack them, not to wish .

control of the political machinery in leaders comes at a particularly inap­moment. A national survey done by ward shift comes from a definition of things were back to the Good Old UCLA found that more students 18-conservative: "one who wishes to recent years, and things haven't im­propriate point in our history. These Days. Maintaining the status quo is 24 declared themselves on the Right maintain the status quo; opposed to proved. At least conservatives are apocalyptic times. The specter of not the answer, nor is a self-oriented of the political spectrum than on the change." This ideal is at the root of proposed some solutions, which total annihilation is another relatively concept of success. Conservatism Left, where ten years ago those on Republican and New Right ideology seemed feasible to many young new influence on college students, has to provide more realistic solu­voters, while liberals stagnated. Un­and conservatism may seem the bestthe Right were outnumbered better -"let's get back to the way things 
tions to the major problems of the than two to one. The survey went were.'' The nostalgia craze of recent fortunately, the conservative al­route to them because A) we should day, and now that they have achieved even further, indicating "there also years has convinced teens and col­ternative merely provides outdated fight fire with fire, and/or B) I want 
a measure of power, they should start was a decline in student altruism and lege students that the Fifties were solutions to contemporary problems. to get rich and prosperous before we 
now.

Today's students weren't around to all explode. Both reactions are
social concern." great: "Happy Days," the Fonz, the experience rampant racism, dis­
This last point is interesting -Brooklyn Dodgers, Bill Haley, etc. from where does this seeming sel­Hey, the Cold War was· great -regard for the poor and preference for· the rich, Eisenhower's recessions (he 
fishness arise? Of course, "The Me those Jlasty Russians sure didn't mess 
had them too, you know), or for wars

Generation" is an easy explanation,, with us then. For Ronald Reagan, the as a cliche attached to the morality of warm memories go back to the 
fought by the U.S. in foreign the Seventies•. but it was also an in­'ideal' presidency of Calvin countries-by one's peers. fluential precedent for students then Coolidge. 
That brings us to another unique quality of today's students: they are

in their teens. The mass self­It has become too easy to forget part of the first American generation 
examination drew emphasis away what the Good Old Days were like. not to face mandatory service on be­
from the radicalism and liberalism Easy to forget blatant discrimination, that college students were known for, widespread hunger, lack of equal 
half of their country. Without a draft, and the lack of an accepted, acces­education and opportunity, and today' s students are free to pursue their interests immediately after
sible protest movement-an already openly segregationist policy on all existing gang, if you will -resulted levels of government. It's easy to colege, and a consciousness of in attentions being turned elsewhere. take for granted the huge steps that 
defending the rights and privileges offered in this country is replaced by.

Like to making money. Money is have been taken since then, especial-

Continue boycott until terms are met 
Feature articles and responses to Either of these answers is beneath Nestle of blatant advertising infant Boycotts are a last resort tactic,Nestle's Infant Formula Boycott in the dignity of any university like formula, while downplaying its when mediation and negotiation Fr. Pobick SullivanThe Observer are rife with charges Notre Dame. The first answer would policy changes since 1978. Nestle break down or never commence.
and counter charges. The Nestle -belie our commitment to seek justice urges us to listen to reputable Boycotts are "political" in the sense
Infact forum on Thursday, February however tortuous or unpopular the sources, but attacks the U.S. Public that the power of publicity and Opinion
18th, revealed more unanswered road. The second answer would belie Health Service. INFACT complains purchasing are used against an op­questions. So did the Sunday, our commitment to seek truth, about Nestle's smooth public rela­ponent. Within the last fifteen years,February 21, WSND show however difficult or tedious the tions, but sends us inexperienced we have witnessed three consumer have concluded an evaluation of the"Encounters." What is one to do ? labor. 
advocates for their case. Nestle boycotts-Cesar Chavez' grape and implementation of its code, country
Characterize the dispute as too politi­claims support of severat Protestant lettuce boycotts, Texas Chicano by country. Nestle stated that a 40
cal, with good and bad guys and gals Nestle representatives urge us to denominations, yet does not seem to boycotts of Willie Farah Slacks and percent profit indicates no discern­
on both sides. Throw up one's hands move beyond the "emotionalism," accept the credibility of the National Amalgamated Clothing and Textile ible financial impact of the boycott.
and accept claims of too much while accusing "INFACT" of lies Council of Churches, the Interfaith Workers Union boycott of the J. P. In a New York Times interview inrhetoric? · and· half-truths. INFACT accuses 

1980, a top Nestle official in Switer­and Catholic officials and organiza­ly received strong religious support, land spoke of Nestle's shifting more tions that have endorsed the boycott. were the result of refusals or failures 
Center for Corporate Responsibility Steven's textiles. All three eventual­
sales to developed country markets. INFACT presents to us a distin­to accept mediating services, It would seem equitable to continue
P.O.BoxQ 

guished list of original endorsers, yet produced charges and counter­the boycott, until the WHO report does not reveal their estimates the charges, were analyzed and sup­clears Nestle of code violations last few months. Nestle top officials ported in social justice terms, and and/or Nestle representatives honor
Thank You 

in Switzerland met with world were finally settled in favor of the our request of last spring that a distin­
Dear Editor; 

ACC staff, Red Cross and Hall Presi­church leaders in July 1981 and farm, apparel, and textile workers. guished religious or other group As co-chairmen of the 1982 Mardi dent's Council. Each of these groups asserted their adamant refusal to mediate (not simply study ) this 
Gras, we would like to thank the Notre Dame people were involvedprovided an important element to the implement the World Health Code, • dispute between Nestle and boycott 

many groups and people who helped in these earlier struggles, directly orsuccess of the 1982 Mardi Oras and because it would put Nestle at an un­supporters. True, INFACT, despite 

make this year's Mardi Gras a fair competition disadvantage in indirectly. The challenges to remain its limited financial resources, hasreceives our sincere thanks. 

success. 

in this strugle for infants. health and The students and faculty who par­
Finally, The Observer deserves a developed countries. INFACT does not been an effective communicator 
lives confronts Notre Dame studentswarm thank you for their help in not tell us of any rece-ntme;;i'ings-of ofthecause. True, Nestle, despite its 
ticipated in the dance-a-thon, variety next week. They will be asked to vote providing us with features, excellent earlier attacks on church groups

these Nestle and church officials.
show and carnival deserve recogni­

Nestle representatives now claim for a continuance or cancellation 9f supporting the boycott (Marxists un­tion for their enthusiasm and willing­
coverage and requests fo.J last minute their company is cooperating with Nestle products on this campus . der the banner of Christ) by circulat­. ads. A special thank you goes to the 
ness to try something new. Equally Student Activities Office, especially governments to implement the· WHO Amid some confusion and doubt, the ing a "Fortune" attack inspired by 

important were the head committee code; however, there is no abun­Administration is asking the students Lefever has had a change of heart.

Jim McDonnell and Amy Kizer. 
and hall representatives who volun­dance of government testimony to to decide. the terms for that decision, The WHO report and sincere efforts Their advice and patience was excep­

teered many hours of their time to or­despite unanswered questions,tional. 

that effect. INFACT questions the at mediation would test communica­ganize and operate each event. 
We thank you all for helping con­sincerity of Nestle's new policy; would seem to be provided by the tion and conversion. Such terms for Prizes, food, and services were World Health Organization andtinue a fine Notre Dame tradition. 
however their office did not send us continuing the boycott would also donated by many local businesses. 
Nestle.
Andy Shafer 
reveal Notre Dame students' passion
the current documentation we re­
We also received the assistance of the quested. In the Fall of 1982, WHO will for truth and justice. 

Jim Stork 


==l:beilbSerYer== 
Founded November 3, 1966 

The Observer is·an independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report· ed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, i5 encouuged. 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editorial Board 

Editor-in-Cbief..............................john McGrath E:t:ecutive News Editor.................. ..... .Kelli Flint !,ports Editor.............................. Skip Desjardin News Editor.............................David Rickabaugh Photo Editor........................................John M:tcor SMC Executive Editor........... Mary Agnes Carq 
Editorials Edi'tor.......................Anthony Walton SMC News Editor......................Cathy Domanico Features Editor .".....................~..Gregory Swierc; 
Department Managers 

· Business Manager .........................Rich Coppola Production Manager...................Michael Monk Controller.............................................joe Mulflur Circulation Manager .............Tom MacLennan Advertising Manager .......................Chris Owen Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley 
-~S H0 W C 2iii6,iiil98iii2iiipiiiag~e
('-iiiiiiSiiiiiEiiiiiiiiiiijiiiiiiiiiiiiFiiridiiay,iiFeiibruiiariiiy 7 

Blood on His hands 
M 
emorics linger oflhe sights and sounds ofthe Cath­
olic Church as it seemed to a Protestant child a 
long time ago. The best remembered time was eight 
o'clock in the evening, after there had been Benedic­
tion at seven. A freshly unfamiliar (to me) smell ofin­
cense and candlewax hung on the air in the faintest 
ghost ofa holy fog. Night worshippers knelt before the 
sufferings ofsaints weeping plaster tears forever fixed 
on furrowed cheeks. Angels comforted the loneliness of 
God piteously tortured by nail and thorn. 
So much sadness was here: jesus fallen down and beaten f(>r a third time; the grieving mother, her heart seven times pierced with the ruinous points of Roman steel; the penitt·nt Magdalene weeping in the dust; Lazarus scahbily wounded by sickness, being licked by dogs; St. Jude whose head seemed attacked by sacred tire as though he: were: suffc:ring a tumerous growth. 
Confessionals hung with velvet curtains had the polished furniture look of mahogany coffins turned on end. Signs announced the hours when sins would be l(>rgiven contrite Catholics whose disordered lives had brought ruin upon the city ofChrist's hope, where the veil of the temple had been shredded into ribbons beaust• of human indifference to the pain on the Cross. 
Even as a child. I knew the outrages on the flesh of Christ suffered from overkill. Bad art leads to a shallow faith. Religious emotions that need to be manipulated by cheap symbols lack an essential grace. It is like a son who can only love his mother when he imagines her being terminally ravaged by a wasting illness. 
I was unimpressed by the merits ofartwork that was crippling to honest prayer, by trying to make you feel sorry for the Lord who never needed our pity. In those churches where the architecture was grim with torture, another kind offaith, I think, was informing the soul ofa 
child. 
Knowing what is important to me now, I would like to imagine that as a child visiting the Catholic church, I felt at home: with the Eucharist. I would like to think that I had a precocious awareness of the Real Presence, obvious to me after my experience with churches that suffered from a sacramental loneliness. I can't really remember when I first knew there was a Eucharist. At the time I'm recalling, nothing of that kind was real to me, by its absence or presence. The sanctuary lamp was no more symbolic than the racked rows ofvigil candles that were burningat the feet ofSt. Joseph and St. There­
sa. 
There is a faith that precedes the Eucharist: some awareness ofan immaculate truth at the center ofex­perience that keeps you honest; some interior response that operates as discernment linking a soul to its Cath­olic conviction. You can call it an invitation ofgrace, or a holy Intuition, or a gift ofinsight that keeps you faithful to a sense ofinnocence. It is not a book, nor a dogma, nor a sacred document, but it may use all these things to show Its face as lovely. Nothing I could ever describe keeps me Catholic. There is nothing that creeds say that I could accept as true ifthere were not another tru~h, for which I am not responsible, beyond language or im­agination, that authenticates existence and makes faith real. It is an immaculate ultimate; and everything else, no matter how mystical, is its echo. The work ofa Chris­tian lifetime is to listen for the echo, and to be faithful to the echo's reiterated truth. 
As a child, I was told by a Catholic child, who heard it from the nuns: "God died on the cross with nails in his hands." I had to go and look for myself; and seeing, I un­derstood that the God with nails in his hands was the 

Jtvv. Jtobvrt Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
Catholic God. An adult said: "You cannot crucify God. 
You can only kill some ill-favored wretch whom fools 
mistook for God." Neither death nor nails made him 
godlike or Catholic; but they told me in a way that 
Catholics understood best, I thought, that' he was 
acquainted with suffering, and He loved us to the end. 
l might wonder ifl were being imaginative in sep~rat­ing God from the denominations and describing him as Catholic if! had not met the Saviour, faithful and suffer­ing, as a complication in so many Catholic lives. The Catholic God is not easy; He is infinitc:ly compassionate, but He insists on rules. Catholics, when they have doubts about Him,l1ave Catholic doubts. When they have a loss offaith, they feel it as a Catholic loss. Some Catholics, who have screwed up badly, make sex and drink and infidelity into destructive kinds ofCatholic experience. It is not easy to walk away from a God with blood on his hands, or from wh t atever faith that dying figure represents. Some Catholics do walk away, but they cannot always stay away for a lifetime. Loyalty brings them back, or habit, or fear, or love. 
There is a faith that precedes the Eucharist: some awareness ofan immaculate truth at the center of experience that keepsyou honest . . 
As a child visiting alien altars a long time ago, I felt the tug that brought me into the Catholic fellowship: the presence that spun out its identity in the architecture of ugly churches and the grandeur ofcathedrals; and in the terse metaphysics ofbreathtaking doctrine; whose praises were sung in Pange Linguas and in the sacred poems called creeds; a reality that was mediated in bread and wine, oil and water; wse symbols wer found in the fragrance ofincense and in the flames ofpenny candles lighted in honor ofa sacred heart spiked with thorns. But first I was fascinated by the sacred places featuring bone relics and the dust of martyrs and holy ashes from the catacombs as though they were the Vatican branches of Madame Tussaud's. The sufferings ofGod and His saints touched me deeply, though they never persuaded me of the value ofbad religious art. I brought home with me from those churches the sights and smells of the Catholic God. There is more to faith than blood and incense, but those smells brought me back as though I were some fallen away sinner who needed to be washed in the blood of the Lamb. 
After the excesses of Rome, the Sunday school God looked very gentle, beause His hands always seemed so clean. It wasn't fair of me to think so, but what I did know as a child who had a taste for the Gothic? My father told me I would get in trouble, hanging around Catholic churches. As usual, my old man knew what he was talking about. 
SUNDAY EVENING LECTURE SERIES CONTEMPORARY MORAL ISSUES Rev. Edward Malloy, CSC 
Feb. 28: Issues ofLife and Death, 1: Abortion, Infanticide, Euthanasia March 7: IssuesofLifeandDeath, II: War & Peace, Crime & Punishment March 21: Sexuality and Family Life 
March 28: Moral Responsibility: Addictions & Compulsions 
There will be a discussion period following each lecture. 
Time: 8:00PM Place: Downstairs in the Crypt 
How many books haveyou read? 
I 
fyou had to write down the names ofthe I00 greatest books ofall time, how far would you get? "The Valley of the Dolls" and "The Complete Scarsdale Medical Diet" are not among them, I'll give you that much ofa tip. 
A great teacher named Stringfellow Barr had a revolutionary idea for educating his students when he was president ofSt.John's Col­lege in Annapolis, Md. His idea was simply to make them read the 
100 best books ofall time. That was it. The four-year college course 
consisted of nothing but those 100 books and he made up the list. 
Stri~gfellow Barr died last week and I thought it would be interest­ing to give you his idea of the 100 best books. I went to a lot of . trouble to get the list, let alone the hooks on it. I never heard of halt ofthem. Ptolemy's"Almagest"? Aristarchus's "On the Distance ofthe Sun and the Moon?" 
I see a few familiar faces on the list: Gulliver's Travc:ls"; Montaigne's "Essays"; "David 


Copperfield"; "The Constitu· 
tion of the United 
States";"The Bible"; Marx's 
"Das Capital"; "Hamlet"; Dar­
win's "Origin ofthe Species." 
Is there anyone alive who doesn't wish he'd read more? I have this terrible guilt feeling about not reading as much as I ought to, but I don't see any prospects for improving my reading record now. It takes so long. Whenever I have time enough to sit down and read a book, I get up and go do something else. 
"I'd never read a book," President Woodrow Wilson said,"ifl 
could talk for half an hour with the man who wrote it." 
I agree with that. I think most people can tell you everything they 
know in halfan hour, and after that they're just padding it out. Isure 
wish I could have spent halfan hour with Plato. His book "The 
Republic" is on the greatest books list. We have it on ourshelfhome 
and I often try to read it. I'll take it down and start into it, but I never 
get very far. 
Sorry about that, Plato, but your book just doesn't grab me.! know you've got some good ideas in there, but you gab too much before you get at them. 
Plato, ofcourse., wrote his books in Greek, so there isn't much left 
of whatever literary grace he had. Most books that have been 
translated sound like the instructions that come in English for a toy 
made in Tokyo. 
Alot more books are bought than read in this country. As a writer, I'm certainly not going to object to that, but there's no doubt people: often fake an interest in books that they don't feel. Some books are used like wallpaper. A full bookshelf with its variety ofcolors and sizes presents a pleasant face and at the very least makes the owners look as though they wished they read books. 
I'm suspicious ofpeople whose shelves are lined with books they haven't read, but mine arc, too. I tend to read the same three orfour books over again instead ofpicking up a new one. 
Most libraries don't have all the books on Dr. Barr's list, but 1 suppose it won't be long before we all have computers where our bookshelves are now and we'll be able to call up any book we wish. Someone will certainly offer a chip for sale the size ofthe head ofa pin with every one of those 100 greatest books on it. I'll hate that. 
Ilove the books I have on my shelves, even·the-ones I'll never read again. They're old friends looking down at me as I live my life, ignor­ing their wisdom. just glancing at their titles once in a while brings a warm glow that no computer will ever duplicate. IfI ever read Stringfellow Barr's 100 greatest books, I'll do it on the paper on 
which they were written. 

l':l[]f\f\m[]~ SCHl\lflf\TZER--------t f1r.-iiJ THE TOXH~ ~f1STES-----------...j 
~~ C[]~CEf\ T r:lflf\CH 3·---------~ 
...1'1 
' I 

J: "'"J'' . 
SEE NEXT WEEK'S FEATURES PAGES FOR MORE ON THIS MUSICAL MILESTONE 


GJtFR ­
~-.:::.:..~·­~-·~ -.-­


,. 

~j1()f1tS=lJ~~~i=e~S~====~========================F=ri=da=y=,F=e~br=u=ary==26=,=I9=s=z===pa=g==es
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
Hockey ticketsfor the final series ofthe seaso~ are still Saint Mary'S basketball team will participate in on sale at Gate 10 of the ACC. The Irish will battle for the home-ice the District Tourney in Goshen this weekend. Games will be held advantage in the upcoming CCHA playoffs, taking on Western Michi­tonight and tomorrow. -The Observer gan in Parents' Weekend action tonight and tomorrow night at 7:30 
p.m. About 1,000 tickets remain for each night's games. -The Ob' See SPORTSBRIEFS, page 10
server 


The lluserver will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday. 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However. classifieds to appear ;n the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day pnor to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid, 
either in person or through the mail. 





Classifieds 
BOSTON CLUB PARTY is FRIDAY! 919 TRADI; FOR WALKMAN.CALL t 794. So. Bend. All area residents ll. friends 
Af'T FOR RENT 288055 SONY BOX. GOOD CONDITION.$80 OR Cheryl. Rachel. Suzanne and Valene. 
Lookrng for a truly portable. yet powerful 
NOTICES 
Thanks for your loyal support You did a female for next CLUB PARTY nrce fOb of neutraliZing Joe Rice·s.rude 
invited. 

TWO GOOD SIX BEDROOM HOUSES. Good SONY WALKMANI Great Buy· call comments. Sorry rf he offended any of
BEANTOWN PARTY TONIGHT! 919 So. you. Anyway, it was great to hear some SIDE BY SIDE. 321, 325 N. TAYLOR 239·7494 
Bend. 9-? OVERSEAS JOBs..summer/year people cheenng whrle everyone else was round. Europe, S. Amer., Australra. Asra. Oear Mister Mitch Lrfton: laughrng. Wrth frrends like you on my srde. 
272·2720. 

HAVE 10UR OWN PE;RSONALIZED ROCHESTER REVISITED-FRIDAY 
Ord an apple a day keep your doctor

All fields. $500·$t200 monthly. Sightsee­I was glad to be playing for The Observer.
BUMPERSTICKERf Any message. NIGHT 
away? (or drd he not have hrs Ph.D.

rng. Free rnfo. Wnte. IJC, Box 52-IN4, I can't wart for the basketball game. I hope 
$2.00. K. Gill, 521 Geranrum Pl., Oxnard, ......................... . 

erther?)CA 93030. See all the fast-paced actron of 3B nerf
Corona Del Mar. CA 92625. y·all wrll be there. 
Srncerely
WANTED 
Davrdbasketball at Flanner's own Roy Wilkins 

Wm. Shakespeare et amici Coloseum this Sunday after Mass. 
CAMP COUNSELORS..rnstructors 

wanted for prestrge private Mrchigan boys and grrls summer camps. Marc Seeger Hi Melinda. The System. 
PmSBURGH CLUB SPRING BREAK
1765 Maple, Northfield, IL 60093. Need rrde to Houston Texas, for spnng freshmen--vote WHITE HAYES MAO­
BUS

break. If you are headed rn that direction TICKETS DEN SHINN for involvement in '82·83. That great guy. DAN KELLEY is celebrat­
SIGN UPS: THIS SUNDAY-FEB. 28AT
If you missed ANN BOURJA/LY, you're a please call Trmo at 1782. rng hrs birthday thrs weekend. Any
8:00PM In LaFortuna Little Theater.
fool. but don't be a complete rdiot..see WHITE/HAYES/MADDEN/SHINN reasonably gorgeous grrl who would like 
Bus leaves NO Friday. March 12 at 4:00 
PAT ANDREWS Thursday. March 4. at 8 TYPING 28 years as a secretary. Excel· WHITE/HAYES/MADDEN/SHINN to grve this great body a hug and/or krss 
PM from the CCE. Bus will return on Sun­
p.m. rn SMC's Little Theatre, Moreau HaiL lent typrst-·retrred. $1.00 per page. Call Need up to 5 DePaul GA tickets. Call INVOLVEMENT FOR the CLASS of '85. stop by room 715 Flanner. Don't mind his 
day, March 21 at 1 :00 PM from the
Get a clue and BE THERE Phyllis 259-2501. John at 1391. VOTEMARCH2 room-males, Dan rs the good-lookrngone 
Greyhound Terminal Downtown Pitts­WHITE/HAYES/MADDEN/SHINN 1nthe room. 
burgh. Cost: $45.00 round trrp; $29.00
DO YOU NEED A GOOD HAIRCUT? RIDE NEEDED TO HOUSTON TEX-FOR Alum from Chrcago needs 2 DePaul GA one way. Payment must be made in full at
GUYS $4. GIRLS $6 CALL MICHOLE AT SPRING BREAK..· WILL SHARE USUAL tix Wil! pay top dollar Call Charlie at 82t 4 Happy birthday Dan! You can present this 795t CALL CHRIS AT 1678 ANYTIME. After you've finrshed banging the balls birthday coupon anytime to redeem one
sign-ups. No refunds. QUESTIONS? Call BRIAN EICHENLAUB at I 581.
HELP' I am in desperate need of 3·5 around, and care to merge With a new free nap! Hope you have a great 20th. 
Ammal Crackers starnng the Marx Bros. ride desperately needed for two to LONG DePaul GA's. Call4t-4057. data set, I've got some good numbers. Love, Your fellow napper PITTSBURGH CLUB SPRING BREAK
7.9.11 PM Knights of Columbus. Mem· ISLAND/N.Y C. for break! will share Waiting for Execution bers free usual. Phil at 8278. 
I DESPERATELy NEED TWO DEPAUL BUS-Sign-ups THIS Sunday, Feb. Ryan GA TICKETS PLEASE CALL TIM AT 28 at 8:00 PM· In LaFortune Little Can I prod the God? Darkroom Tech­Here's to the next 80 page paper that 137711!1 Theater. Questions?-Call Brian Eic-
HelpIll Desperately need ride to North­nician we des1gnl We can screw up headlines,
henlaub at 1581. See ya'll at sign-ups
ern Jersey or NYC area for March spill coffee, and yell at the sports people. Break. Can leave anytime, will share I NEED 2 DEPAUL GA'SI! CALL BOB AT then. IKE BILLY HATHEWAY:Soon lobe22-TAKE P.S. I apologrze for any mistakes in usual. Call Tara, SMC, 4986. ACTION I Get out of S.D. and learn how to blamrng of the sunken ship 
1647 ................. . Hello Mlaa QuinnI
LOST/FOUND .........., .. SWIM! All qualified instructors in NEED RIDE TO MASACHUSSSETTS Desperately need GA DePaul licketslll .. so anyway, so the frog is sitting on drowning" apply in person to 316 Fisher. tomyHGLDE:Fiogonni's brg desk. right? So he says to
SPRING BREAK. CALL DAVE 1655 Call Sandy at 272·4683 Nobody can be turned down. HAPPY break a legill 
the frog, he says. 'Hey frog, you ain't no 
BIRTHDAY BILL AND HAPPY DROWN· love, Need 2 DEPAUL ticket~ .;;;,·even pay. spose tah make-uh da deposit here!"
LOST A 14K GOLD CROSS FROM A Desperately need a ride for two people to INGI LOVE PRES. AND V.PRES. OF !he yellow rose 
Call Dan at 8584. ' (Because Fiogonnr is Italian. JUSt like the 
NECKLACE; IN GYM 1 OF ACC. t IF Northern Jersey. right off Route 80. Will S.D. ps. are you typecast???! 
frog, rrght? And he thrnks the frog is The 
FOUND PLEASE CALL 283·1772. THIS share the usual. Call Mrke at 1181. IS OF GREAT VALUE TO ME. l NEED MANY GA's for DePauL Wrll pay HELPIII LUSH-US FEMALE HAS WEDNESDAY NIGHT DESIGN CREW
Cousm·s bagman. You see, Ficigonni moonlights with the mob. and he's in
Need rrde to N.VIRGINIAIO.C area for $36 a pair and future draft considerations. PURCHASED TOO MUCH ALCOHOL My deepest apologres to James, Manlyn, charge of setting up the front at this bank 
lost· a digrtal watch wrth a cracked crystal spnng break. Can leave late the t Oth. Call Call JC at 8446. AND IS THEREFORE WILUNG TO Mark and especrally Momca. I have done 
for the drop ... right?) So anyway, so the
and without a band. calr 6261 reward. Jrm 1763. SHARE HER· EXCESS. IF IN­a gnevous misdeed. 1trusted the word of a YOUR PRICE-for 1 or 2 DePaul student frog says, ere am I spose tah make-uh 
thanks. TERESTED, MEET ME IN THE circulation manager who will remain or GA's. Call Brll. 3256. da deposit?" And Fiogonnr says, You
NEED A RIDE TO JACKSON, MISSIS. REFRIGERATOR AND WE CAN nameless, and he led me down the 
Billy the
LOST: SIPPI FOR SPRING BREAK. CALL gotta ?,O to da pier and see DEFROST IT TOGETHER. IF YOU CAN wayward path. Sure. I know what's going 
Worm...

Microeconomics book by Walter Nic­A.M.P. 817933. HELP! Need one student or GA for BEER IT. on here... he said. Go to 16. It won't be a 
(more later)
holson, rn room 121 O'Shag on Fnday, DePaul·. Grrlfriend wrll krllrf I don't get One RUMMINGAWAY problem." But it was. I take all respon­2/12. Please call Mrke at 8649 rf book rs REWARD ~ff~~ecJ ~~·~~y~~~ .;;h~~~~ iincJ for her. Call Ray at 272·1684 Sibility. but fend off some of the blame. h
HelpII Our nde fell through and we may be
found. me a rrde to Ft. Walton Beach. or DAVE, I SAW YOU IN YOUR PADS wrll not happen agarn. I have learned 
stuck rn the Mrdwest for break! If you have 
anywhere rn the Florrd~ panhandle. Will Need Depaul student trx. Greg, 1046 WED. NIGHT, WHAT ARE YOU SAVING never to upset our beloved hired hands. 
room for two fun-loving sun-worshipping
PLEASE NOTICE; LOST: A Beige fur­share all usuaL Caii·Trm at 6759. 
YOURSELF FOR? Your humble servant,
grrls headed for Tampa, Flonda. please
collared wrnter coat by MAINE GUIDE at AN EAGER PUCK Sports
call 3351. We'll share driving and ex·
the South Dinrng Hall on 2/22/82 A scarf DESPERATELY need nde to North Jer­PS. YOU'RE KEEPING ME FROM MY 
penses.

and hat were rn the pockets also. Any in· sey/NYC area for break· anywhere on Rt GOAL mbl formation leading to my·retnev1ng the coat 80 rn NJ. Wrll share usuaL Dan at 8200. PERSONALS Thanks for the picture. As Mark Twain 
Mark Ulliman-1 don't care what they say
will be rewarded without quest ron. Please sard. I'm opposed to millionaires. but it 
about you. 

contact Kevrn at 1103. Thank You. My Dad wrl krll me rf I don't get 2 GAs for ANYTHING I WANLTHIS COULD would be dangerous to offer me the posr­
the DePaul game! Call Mo St20 (SMC) TAKE A LITTLE THOUGHT TO TURN IT tion." AN TOSTAL Organrzatronal Meeting.
Found: one ring near hbrary Sunday TO MINE AS WELL AS YOUR AD· Moneybags
7pm Sunday, February 28, Little Theater, 
mght. Call and describe CHIP at 8647. Rid~ ~;..;d~d 1~ Co~~~~jj~;;t ~ i~~ Lookrng for a truly portable, yet powerful VANTAGE. SURELY YOU HAVE SOME P.S. Your turn. 
LaFortune. Be There! 

Spnns break. Leave Thurs. or Fri. Share personal computer? See The Osborne 1. SUGGESTIONS. FOUND CASH--TELL ME WHERE YOU usuaL Please call Bill/ at 1626 64K. dual tOOK drsk drrves. plus $1400 TOO MANY OPTIONS It's TIME for another trip rnto the TIME 
To the God of Prod: Keep rt up. A pair of
LOST IT. WHEN. AND HOW MUCH, worth of software. all for $1795. FOUR­TUNNELl The Top 20 Time Tunnel. Sun­
hrred hands 

AND IT'S YOURS CALLJIM 8t65. KALAMAZOO I need a nde erther Friday WAY COMPUTER PRODUCTS. (Across day at 6 on WSND AM 64. or Sat. Call Kathy 8093 from North Vrllage Mall). 277·7720. Denrse Keller-to meet you today. to see Thrs week: the week endrng March 1,
Ryan: Come home. Brussels isn't the 
you any nrght-that's what I would like. Mr. 1980, rncludrng songs by Queen. Dan place for you. lost rn South Bend 
RIDE NEEDED to Dallas,TX or ATTENTION ALL MEMBERS OF ? Fogelberg. Pink Floyd. Tom Petty and the Shreveport. LA Please call 289-8955 GAMER'S ANONYMOUS! OUR Heartbreakers, and Barry Manilow, etc. 
Skrp, 16 is not better than t 2. Hope you
Lost: a berge and blue skr jacket wrth red TELEPHONE NUMBER HAS CHANGED ATTENTION SKIERS !!I 
got the note. I'd really love tal Manlyn 
stnpes rn the south drmng haiL Call8219 ARE YOU PLANNING TO LIVE IN LUS· IT IS NOW 286·1484. Two spots have JUSt opened up on the YOU BETTER 
for reward. CIOUS. TROPICAL TANTALIZING S.U. Spnng Break Skr Tnp. Anyone rn­Patty.
SOUTH BEND THIS SUMMER? IM Wing rt on the WIND terested. should contact the S.U. Tix THE TURTLE SOUP IS COLD, BUT 
Hope Pitt is dorng well. Things here ­
LOST A srlver wnst watch wrth a blue face LOOKING FOR ONE FEMALE Office immedii\ltely. This is first come fifst WILL BE GOOD AGAIN AFTER
-! It's now 6:00 a.m. and we're not
and a broken watchband Grves date rn ROOMMATE TO SHARE A CAMPUS serve basts. PROPER WARMING. PLEASE 
even close to berng finished. I wish to God 
both English and Spanrsh Lost on 2/23 VIEW APT. FROM JUNE TO AUG. CALL REHEAT AND CONSUMEIll
Want a guitar? New Suzukr/case. new money, a
around noon near or rnsrde o·shag. PATTI AT 283-8472. RENT IS ONLY I didn't need the I'd qurt rn Jrm Leous and Joe Rrce. A SHELLFISH FRIEND
stnngs. All other musrcal supplies. Call second. I'll wnte soon.

Please call Jeff 1764 $t45AMONTH Thanks for all your help. I had a great
Kathy at 6752 A Very Tired Me 
.;... trme. but wrthout your help, rt could have WELCOME BACK PAUL!!! LOST BLUE LOOSLEAF FOLDER IN NEED TWO RIDES TO LOUISVILLE been mrserable. Jrm -I'm strll tryrng to
NEDIIIMARYINEDIIIMARYI Marybeth Brennan rs the most popular grrl 
GALVIN AUDITORIUM ON 2/23 AFTER FOR BREAK. NEED NOT BE IN SAME skate backwards Moooooo!!!
NED Ill MARY I NED Ill MARY I on erther campus. Do you know herfoo??
SAHUNS LECTURE. CONTAINED CAR CALL t 031 OF 2255 Davrd
NED Ill MARY I NED Ill MARY 1

NOTEBOOK AND PHOTO NEG· JACK JONES
t~ ~ g;~~t dr;~~r f~~~ Gra~e ~nd a gr~~t
GATIVES. CALL BOB AT 3260. Need nde to CENTRAL PA vra 1-80 for CARROT HEAD, JACK JONES
PAT ANDREWS JS COMING ... PAT cook from Regrna on her way to ROME­
MATERIAL IS IMPORTANT. break Leave 3/9 or later. Call Jeff 1956. u r such a LIGHTWEIGHT 4A JACK JONES
ANDREWS IS COMING...PAT Have a great weekend '" Ch1cago!!! 

SEE HIM PLAY AT THE NAZZANDREWS IS COMING to Sarnt Mary s

Lost: parr of royal blue mrttens made out Rrders needed to MIAMI-FT. FOTUNADO, TONIGHT!! I 10:30-BE THERE!
Lrttle Theatre rn Moreau Hall. March 4 at 8 rt rs okay to show emotrons ll feelings·
of an ylon type matenal. They were a grit. LAUDERDALE area for spnng break. Call p.m. everyone has them. I know thrs JOke rs gettrng old but. . How 
Always be1ng the
If you have any rnformatron please call Vrnny 3043, or Denms 1974. WHAT GORGEOUS ASSISTANT REC­
was your shower today? Elizabeth tough person sometrmes hurts everyone 

Krmat2966. TOR FROM GRACE HALL IS PLAYING 
....Sosron Boston Boston.... more. 

. . ·••······ .............. HELP!! THREE PALE·FACED FEMALES MARY AT THE NAZZA't10:30TONIGHT?
Need nde for two Boston

LOST: A tan/red reversrble down vest. WILL BE ON THE WARPATH IF THEY to or there· JACK JONES
abquts for sprrng break. Call Colleen at Feb. 28. HAPPY BIRTHDAY! TAKE IT LIGHT 
green warm-up pants, and a pair of DONT GET A RIDE TO TAMPA. JACK JONES
AND SEE YOU TOMORROW NIGHT. gloves. Lost at ACC on 2/25. If found. FLORIDA FOR BREAK THEY'LL JACKJONESIII 
41-4424 or ,Jeb at 8649. Hope you have a great day. Celebrate .. 
NED please call Jeff at 1956. SHARE DRIVING AND EXPENSES. SO 
you only turn 21 once. 
JEFF JEFFERS FOR UGLY MOON Happy brrthday! 
CALL THEM AT 3351 IF YOU HAVE ON CAMPUS. 
Dec. 2 

lost: MICROECONOMICS by Walter Nrc· ROOM IN YOUR WAGON!! 
Happy Brrthday. Ned!! Put on your drrnk­holson: rnO'shag on Feb. 12. lffound. call lng shoes Saturday nrghtll You know. the 
ACHTUNG! 

WE ARE PLEASED TO ANNOUNCE
Mike at x8649. This poqr book needs 1ts bottomless ones!!! 
FOREIGN STUDIES POT PARTY THAT MIDN MCMONAGLE AND
home The B· Day Grrl
All returnmg and future lnnsbruckers KARAM, THE ULTIMATE URBANE rnvlled. Dr. Hardsell wrll present lecture. COUPLE. SHALL GRACE THE TRI-MIL
FOUND. A Gold Charn, wrth Medal be· How frustrated IS Momca?
FOR SALE 
Out on Your Ear." 

BALL WITH THEIR PRESENCE ON FEB 
tween Dillon and the Dining Hall Call t 82t 26
Ken. 
BYOH To all Observer hockey players. 
MOS BALL AND CHAIN HAS BEEN DIS­I knew wrth a little brt of hard work (and 

:• CONNECTED. BUT ON'L Y FOR THE
SURPLUS JEEPS. CARS AND TRUCKS 
luck) we could pullrt off You all drd a fan·(436) I ALWAYS WAS A MYSTERY! 
AVAILABLE. Many sell for under $200. 

Srgn up thrs week for the tastic JOb. I hope you had as much fun as I JEF:F JEFFERS FOR UGLY MOONCall3t2·742-t 143. Ext 73t6 forrnforma· 
PHILADELPHIA CLUB BUS dJd. Next tJme, we'll do even better.
ON CAMPUS.
lion on how to purchase. 
FOR RENT 
For mformat1on call: 

Dave Chuck x8702 TO MR HOLD THAT POSE GO. 
THE PAPER MISSED IT YESTERDAY. 
USED & OUT-PRINT BOOKS bought. 

Kerry x6996 THEY'RE COMING FROM
Classrc Comedy!! Marx Bros.ll Anrmal SO ITS IN TODAY: OLEAN.ELMHURST.AND ERIE.
sold. searched. ERASMUS BOOKS. 

Avarlable march 15th for Crackers!! Tonste!! Knsghts of Columbus. THANKS FOR AN INTERESTING EVE·
Tues-Sunday. i2-6. 1027 E. Wayne (One HAPPY BIRTHDAY THEY'RE COMING TO 2t9 FLANNER

rent,4bedroom.2bathroom,malntance Members Free. NING. BUT HOLD ON TO THE BAL·
block south of Eddy-Jefferson rntersec· LINDA RADLER 

free house. $300 per month,plus $300 Iron.) LOON, I THINK IT SAYS IT ALU THIS SATURDAY THEYRE deposit.Call233-2547 foi apporntment ATTN: ALL CAMPUS CRAZIES. YOUR SCREW DATE CELEBRATING NED LAMEY'S 2tst B· 
C.B

CRAZIEST MOVIE EVER MADE P S. GET A HOLD OF ONE OF US TO DAY. BUT THATS NOT ALL! MARYSURPLUS JEEPS. CARS. TRUCKS cur· JUST HAD TO LET YOU KNOW IN
FURNISHED HOMES NICE AREA FOR DISCUSS TERMS FOR THE CHAIR· IF DURKIN WILL BE 19 ON THE SAME
rnventory value $2.t43 sold $tOO. For SHOWING TONITE AT KNIGHTS OF BLACK AND WHITE· t THINK YOU'RE DAY! THAT'S INCREDIBLE! THEY
NEXT SCHOOL YEAR CLOSE TO NO YOU STILL WANT IT!
tnformatton on purchasmg simtlar bargms COLUMBUS 7. 9. 11. ANIMAL CRACK· PRETTY SPECIAL! 
COULD HAVE ALMOST BEEN TWINS IF 

2773604 ERS. FEATURING THE MARX BROS.
call 602·998·0575 Ext. 3648 Call refun· THEY HAD HAD THE SAME PARENTS.
dabte. 

HICCUPS 
Thrs is ;ust the begrnnrng! SO DONT JUST SIT THERE READING Be your own boss! Comfortable 5 bdrm. 
The great books-the great mrnds. LAURA: I'll THIS.MAKE PLANS TO START
Meet faculty and students of the Program never be able to do enough. By the way­completely furnrshed house. close to I'd love you rf you wore anythrng (or no­NOKenwood KA·701 amp80w/ch. Kenwood 
CELEBRATING. INVITATION campus for 5 or 6. 288-3942 
KX-500 cassette deck, RTR spkrs. all wrth of Libef;;l Studies. Mon. March 1, 6:45 NEEDED. SO BE THERE KAHLUA
p.m., Grace Pit thrng!?!!?) Love. Brll 
warranties. LAB-500 quartz drrect dnve CAROL.. THE TESTS.ARE.OVER AND 
(THATSALOHA)! FOUR AND FIVE BEDROOM HOUSES MY BATTERY IS CHARGED. IT'S TIME
tumtable,headphones ll acces· Jeff ·Moon" Jeffers for UMOC -ugly
sones,$850 or separate. 289-3641 (Tony) ................................................................
AVAILABLE FOR NEXT SCHOOL TO DANCE THE NIGHT AWAY I'M 
moon on campus. Vote: WHITE · HAYES -MADDEN 
THE LOW LIFE SHINN . Sophomore Class Officers 

YEAR CALL 234-9364. PSYCHED. HOPE YOU ARE TOO! 
Low Ia the beat way to go.
SCOTT 

The Observer-Sports Friday, February 26, 1982 -page 9 
Boosterletter 
Athletic teams need support 
Editor's Note: We receive many letters at The Observer, but few as sincere as the one that follows. Mr. 
Penrod  sits  on  the  Notre  Dame  
bench  at  each  home  basketball  
game.  
Dear Editor:  

This is the die-hard IRISH Athletic Booster coming at you again with something I wish to share with you, and hope to see happen. 
Those of you who saw our Fight­ing Irish basketball team play and beat South Carolina this past Satur­day saw the way these young men can play. In turn, this leads me to my next statement, which is: Hey, we have, or should I say you have, a 
team which, in my mind and eyes, has a good chance to get an NIT bid. But they're going to need all of you to back them. By doing this, you'll be showing them you have confidence and faith that they can do it. I know one thing -I do!!! 
When that team named DePaul comes in this weekend, I'd like to have it so deafeningly loud right before they take the court that you won't be able to hearjohn Uoyd, the public address announcer. 
And for those of you who don't know it, you have a Fighting Irish women's basketball team who are now 16-7, after losing this past Satur­day to South Carolina -while playing superbly. Ifyou haven't seen these gals play, you're missing some Now you can see why I'm so

Bucs defeat Hoosiers ; proud, and feel it's such an honor to be associated with the great tradi­tion of this institution. You can, and
maintain tourney hopes 
should, be proud to be a part of it! 

COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP)-Ohio Stall' star Clark Kellogg refusl·d to call his performance in a 68-65 vic­tory ovt·r Indiana last night the best of his t·ollegiate basketball career. 
"But it would haVl' to rank up there: with our most satisfying," said Kellogg after he hit I 0-of-16 floor shots and four straight free throws li>r 24 points and grabbed six rebounds to keep the Buckeyes in Big Ten title contention. 
Bobby Knight, Indiana's coach, was impressed. "Kellogg played very welL lie put a lot of pressure on us, particularly in thl' first half. He may he the best forward in the country," said the coach of the Hoosiers, now 9-6 in the league and I 5-9 overall. 
...Irish 

continuedfrom page I 2 
sights to Saturday's clash with DePaul, one of the better teams in this region. 
The Lady Demons, I5·9 on the Sl·ason, lost to Michigan ( 88·72) and beat Illinois ( 79-64) and South Carolina ( 80-72) earlier this season. Notre Dame beat the Wolverines ( 71-48) and lost to the Illini ( 83-53) and the Gamecocks (76-54). 
Senior Debra Robinson, a 6-4 cen­ter, scores 14.6 points per game for Coach Ron Feiercisel's club. Robin­son is fifth in the nation this week in 11cld goal percentage, shooting at a 62 percent clip. 
Prior to last night's game, Notre Dame was surrendering 52.4 points per game to the opposition, which ranks second in the nation this week, behind Montana's 52.0. Until this week, the Irish had led the country in scoring defense for four con­secutive weeks. 
Notre Dame also ranks II th this week in field goal percentage, averaging 49.4 percent shooting as a team. 
The Irish have dropped out of the top I 5 in field goal percentage defense and scoring margin. 
CENTRAL COLLEGIATE 
HOCKEY ASSOCIATION 
W L T GF GA Pet 

BowhngGreen 18 7 1 152 94 .712 
M1ch1gan State 20 9 1 123 84 .883 
MIChlganTech 16 11 1 129 120 .589 
MIChi\IAn 14 10 4 89 89 .571 
NoiNDeme 14 12 2 126 116 .536 
FemsState 12 14 2 109 120 .464 
Lake SuperiOr 10 14 2 107 102 .423 
North MIChigan 11 15 0 101 122 .423 
Well. Mtch~gan 10 1 7 1 115 137 .375 
Oh10 State 9 16 1 84 106 .365 
M1am1 8 17 1 89 121 327 
Note Ill -ChiCago C1r not InCluded 1n standings and 
not ehg1ble tor league t1tte. but games aga1nst I-CC 
l1gure 1n teague standings 
Thta WHkend'a Games 

(A112-game Fn -Sa1 Senes) WHt..., Mlchlgoin 81 NotN Dame, 7:30 Mlchtg.n 81 Bowling GI'Hn Ohio St81e 81 Mt.ml Ferris St81e 81 Michigan Stale Northern Mlchlgen 81 Lake Superior III.·Chlcego Circle 81 Michigan Tech 
For let me tell you, I surely am!! I'd like to thank the_ whole universityIt was the lifth straight league vic­and the good Lord for allowing me tory for thl' Buckeyes, breaking a to be a part o t f you. 
third-placl' tie with Indiana in the God be with and bless each one. 
conference. Ohio State is I 0-5 in the Your outside Athletic Booster, league and 19-8 for all games. 
Keith Penrod 

r=wi SUilDAYMASSES .· ­~~~ AT SACllED HEAll'l CHUllCH Masses are for Sunday, l'eb. 18, 1981 
very exciting basketball. And they, too, have a chance to get in the NCAA Tournament. They also need your support in the remaining two home games -in hopes of making it. 
There are two games left, and I'm sure it'd help them to get the back­ing ofyou students. Let's start Satur­
day  when  they play  that  DePaul  
team,  and  again  a  week later  on  
March6.  ·  

The fifth-place Irish hockey team stayed in there after their loss to Michigan State this past weekend, and came back and beat them Mon­day night. There will be two last games this weekend against Western Michigan. I'm sure they too could use the large crowd and'the support ofyou students. 
So don't count the Irish out yet. 

5:15 Pll Saturday 9:00AM Sunday 
10:30 All Sunday 
11:15 PM Sunday 
7:15 Pll Vespers 
B.ev. B.obert Griffin, O.S.C. Bev.James ShUts,c.s.c. 
B.ev. David Schlaver, O.S.C. lev. David Schlaver, C.S.C. lev. Dan Jenky, c.s.c. 


NOTREDAM' 
PROGRAM 

Consider a truly HUMANISTIC EDUCATION talk with faculty and students 
Monday, 6:45pm March 1 
GRACE PIT 
... 

The Observer-Sports Friday, February 26, 1982 -page 10 
REFERENDUM, 



March 2, 1982 
''ShouldtheUniversityofNotre Drune continueits boycottofthe products oftheNestle Co111pany andthoseofits subsidiaries?'' 
Allundergraduate students,includingSeniors, 
...Sportsbriefs  
continuedfrom page 8 Irish fencers face their toughest weekend of the year. Arch-rival Wayne State is in town for a meet tonight at 6 p.m. at the Angela Athletic Facility. Saturday, Notre Dame plays host to Illinois and Wisconsin at 11 a.m. in the ACC. The Irish men have a 23-match winning streak going and are 18-0 on the season. -The Observer DisneyDayis the theme for the Varsity Crowd tomorrow­at the Notre Dame-DePaul women's basketball game. Mickey Mouse and Donald Duck will be on hand to help the Irish end a three-game losing streak. At the end of the game, a women's free throw contest will be held, for which $60 in prizes will be awarded to the five finalists. Admission is free for the 4 p.m. contest. -The Observer CCHA playoffs may be held at Notre Dame. The quater­finals of the hockey tournament will be played Friday and Saturday, march 5-6. Ifthe games are at Notre Dame, face-off time will be 7:30 p.m. Student season ticket holders will have first priority in purchas­ing playoff tickets. Students who present the face of their season coupon book with their ID card on Monday, March 1, from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., at Gate 10 of the ACC, will be able to purchase tickets in Section 8. All other Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students may pur­chase playoftickets at the same time and place. There is a limit ofone student ticket per game, for personal use, at the student price of S3. Additional tickets may be purchased for $4. ID must be presented at the time of purchase, and one student may present no more than four I D's. -The Observer  

mayvoteonthisissue. 




TEACHERS WANTED 
Positions available 
for those with BS 
or graduate degree 
in Math, Physics, 
Chemistry or 
Engineering (U.S. 
Citizen under age 
29) to teach college and graduate level courses at the Navy's Nuclear Power School in Orlando, Fla. 

Teaching Experience not required! $19,900-21 ,600 to start, increas­ing to $27,200-40,350 within four years., 
CALL (317) 269-6197 OR 1-800-382-9404 

For information or an interview, see your NAVY reps on campus: 3-4March 

·., 
Track teamtravels toIllini Classic 
ByEARLRIX 
Sports Writer 
Chuck Aragon broke the four­minute mile at last year's Illini Clas­sic. The Irish hope to recapture some of that magic tommorrow when they return to Champaign for this year's version of the prestigious meet. 
The Irish distance medley team of Jim Tyler, Jacques Eady, Tim Can­non, and Tim Macauley hopes to be pushed under th NCAA-qualifying time of9:49.0 by the tough competi­tion that the meet should provide. The Irish ran a distance medley time of9:50.1 last weekend. 
The improvement in the Irish program is illustrated by the fact that the three top Irish performers aren't even bothering to run in the meet this year. Senior tri-captain Paul Doyle, Steve Dziabis, andJim Moyar, NCAA qualifiers all, are choosing to sit out this weekend in order to rest for the IC4A's on March 6-7. The Irish didn't send a team to the IC4A's last year because they didn't think that they could be competitive. 
Senior John McCloughan will run the 60 high-hurdles tommorrow. Greg Bell and Phil GilmOTe will run the 60-yard dash. Bell and freshman James Patterson will long-jump for the Irish. Patterson is only 3 inches from qualifying for the IC4A's-An­other freshman, Chuck Constable, hopes to improve his high-jump by 2 inches in order to qualify for the 
IC4A's. 
FreshmanJim Tyler and Senior tri­
captain Rick Rogers will run the half­
mile. Tim Macauley and Tim Cannon 
will run the mile and Tony Hatherly 
will run the 1000 meters. Andy Dil­
lon, who broke the Irish three-mile 
record last weekend, will run the 
two-mile tommorrow. Robby Fin­
negan will put the shot for the Irish. 
The Irish mile-relay team will con­
sist of Eady, VanEyken, Ribera, and 
Kania. Tomorrow marks the return 
to action for Ribera and Cannon. 

:--------------------------,
"MEET YOUillVIAJOJl" SCHEDULE t 

1I SOCIOLOGY  Sunday, February 28 Room 331 O'Shag.  7:00 Pftt  1 1  
1 THEOLOGY  Library Lounge  7:00PM  I  
1 PHILOSOPHY  Room 331 O'Shag.  8:1S PM  I  
1BLACK STUDIES  contact Professor Edward Blackwell (34S O'Shag.)  I  

I MEDIEVAL CIVILIZATION contact professor Stephan Gersh for a meeting in his~ I I office (7th fl. Memorial Lib.-Medieval Institute) I f for a meeting on either March 2 or March 4. I I GREEK CIVILIZATION any questions will be answered during the Language 1 I program to be held at 4:30 Thursday, March 4 in the 1 1 Library Lounge I 
---------~-----~----------~ 
r-----------------~--------1
t '·~ . GREAT WALL f
Special 

: Chinese & American ~Resta ufant i Cockt~il Lounge
t Banquet rooms auail~ble-Banq~et & group rates auailable
f 

carryOutAuaihlble HappyHourS:00-7:00pm Mon.-Sat. 
t First time in South Bend, try our 
t New Szechuan Style Cuisine-­
t the best Chinese food you've ever had. 
' 

' Now For Your Pleasure We Feature
'

'  The Following Choice of  Family Specials  
, &  
' . f f  Fri.: Chicken Chow Mein Deep Friea Cod Filet Sat.: Beef Chop Suey  $3 • 9 s·  
,  Deep Fried Shrimp  
'  Sun.: Sweet & Sour Pork  
f  Deep Fried Chicken  
&  • All af;!ove.Chinese soecials served with soup and non-alcoholic beverage 
'  fned nee, and egg roll.  '  
272 "'7 ~ '7'/!' ' 


& e All above American.specials served with potato, vegetable, rolls and of course 
' our fantastic 25ttem salad bar. ' -~L..;J_ _Q_ 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Great Chinese 
S t 
& 
American Buffet : , 
for only f $2.99 f 



L--------------~• 
-~~ 'Mon.-Thurs,: t1:30o.mAO:QOp.m. Fri.&Sot.......J1:30a:m.~ll:OOp.m.' 
f 
Sun...._.....~-.. 4-9 p.m. • Ill  ·  · ·  r. ~  !  
'  
130 Dixie HWY.South  1 t --· f ~ __ f  
South Bend  • - 
Roseland  '  
::I f 

&

---~ ----~-~----~ -~ -----~-----­
Ihe~rver========================================== 




~~4()[~~======/=======================F=ri=d=ay='=F=e=b=ru=a=r=y=2=6='=19=8=2===p=a=g=e=l=l 
\1olarity Michael Molinelli Campus 
MK HASON , I 5DRRY 
Bur BcU.VSE. oF 'IDUF\ ()1?£./f'L-INARY Rt:CORP, ')fll/h," ~bTOI\Y or: Vi(·l F.NC.t: AND TbTJ\L 
DlfJf\1:-C•I\"'j) H">R ALIT110RifY,, 


WAO 
Tll€/o\
UP... 
I 


Garry Trudeau 

Jeb Cashin 
... ANO STOt1P 
ON 11-\EM!! 
\ 


5I 
ACROSS 23 Sweet
The Daily Crossword 
1 Gl addr.,ss smell 4 Frolicked 24 Insect in the sea 26 "-Time" 8 Substantial (TV show) 13 Make 30 Go -(duel) 
clothes 32 Foot part 14 Satiate 33 Gas 15 -acus· 34 Miller's 
tomer "Salesman" 16 Get drunk . 36 Across, 18 To say old style 
the -37 "Is there 19 Russian no balm John In-?" 
20 "-that 39 Kind of boasts mind inhabitants 41 Two like me" 43 Miss Adoree 
22 State 44 Nary a soul 
Thursday's Solution 
©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
a.:.;,;.:.;;.,:,;;.;,;.;::.i~~=;.:;;;~~.:.l 
45 Splotchy 17-and he'll 46 Lament take an ell 47 Glove of 21 "And Noah... 
a kind when he sat 48-Doone down-" 50 Unique 22 Circleof 
qualities color 55 By surprise 23 Wind flower 56 Thighbone 24 Kind of 57 Hatchet drums 58 Sorrowful 25 -a million 
sounds 26 Yoko­59 Astride 27 Closeby 60 Gulf state: 28 A canonical 
abbr. hour 29 Buy a pig DOWN in­1 Coal 31 " ... teach 

remainder an-new 2 Coal size tricks" 3 Possess 35 Chemical 4 Sub detec­ending 
tor 38 Parkas 5 Bird 40 More banal 6 Past 42-kind 7 "All­(rarity) 
created 45 Barrack's equal" decor 
8 Early being 46 Haul found in 47 Reminder Java 48-Vegas 

9 Certain 49 Cummerbund 
avenues 51 Profit 10 Spare 52 Rested 11 Pronoun 53 Riverin 12 Period England 
14 Rule 54 Gender 
, Friday, February 26 
•12: 
I 5 p.m."-Lenten Mass, Fr. Griffin, Basement of LaFortune 

•1:30 
p.m. -Workshop, David Wagoner, Memorial Library Lounge, Sponsored by Sopho· more Literary Festival 

• 
3:30p.m.-Colloquium, "Philosophy: just Like Science Only Differem", Professor Aron Edidin, Commentator Professor Gary Gutting, 124 Hayes Healy, Sponsored by Philosophy Department 

•4-5 
p.m. -Tertulla, Venga para hablar con nosotros y practicar cl artc dl· conversar, Basement of LaFortune, Sponsored by Spanish Club 

•6 
p.m. -Fencing, Notre: Dame: Womc:n v~. Wayne State:, ACC 

•6 
p.m. -Fencing, Notre Dame Men vs. Wayne State, ACC 

•7·9 
p.m. -Workshop, justice: Workshop, Brother Izzo, Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall, Saint Mary's Coilc:gc 

•7, 
9, II p.m. -Film, "M·A-S·H", Carroll Hall, Saint Mary's College, Sponsored by Stud<.·nt A<."· tivitics Programming Board, AIESEC· ND, SI admis­sion 

•7, 
9, II p.m. -Film, "Animal Crackers," Marx Brothers, Knights ofColumbus 

•7:30 
p.m. -Reading, Susan Fromberg Schaeffer, Memorial Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Soph· omorc: Literary Festival 

•7:30 
p.m. -Hockey, Notre Dame vs. W<.·stern Michigan, ACC 

•7:30 
p.m. -Film, "Amarcord", Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of An, Sponsored by Department of Communication and Theatrl·, SI admission 

•8 
p.m. -Play, "The Wild Duck", Washington 


Hall Saturday, February 27 
•8 
a.m. · I2:30 p.m. -LSAT Test, Enginn·ring Auditorium, 

•I 
I a.m. -Fencing, Notre: Dame Men vs. Illinois and Wisconsin, Notre Dame Women vs. Illinois an Wisconsin, ACC 

•1 
:30 p.m. -Workshop, Robert Creeley, Memorial Library Lounge, Sponsored by Sopho· more Literary Festival 

•4 
p.m. -Basketball, Notre Dam<.· Women vs. DePaul, ·Ace 

•7, 
9, II p.m. -Film, "M·A-S·Jl", Carroll Hall, Saint Mary's College, Sponsored by Student Ac­tivities Programming Board, AIESEC-ND, SI admis· sion 

•7, 
9, I I p.m. -Film, "The Producers", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Film Club sI admission 

•7:30 
p.m. -Hockey, Notre Dame vs. West<.·rn Michigan, ACC 

•7:30 
p.m. -Reading, Robert Crecley, Memorial Library Auditorium, Sponsort'd by Sophomore: Literary Festival 

•8 
p.m. -Play, "The Wild Duck", Washington 


Hall Sunday, February 28 
•2 p.m. Basketball, Notre Dame Mt'n vs. DePaul, ACC, Channd 16 
•6 p.m. -WSND-AM Radio, Top Twt'nty Timt' Tunnel 
•7 
p.m. -Gospel Program, "Dimt'n~ions of Spirit", South Bend Arc:a Chutdlt'S, Memorial Library Auditorium, SponsOrt'd by Black Cultural Arts h·stival . 

•7 
p.m. -Meeting, An Tostal Organizational Mt"eting, LaFortune: Little Thl·atre 

• 
8 p.m. -WSND-AM Radio, Rock in Rt·trospeu 

•8 
p.m. -Concert, Michigan Tt"ch Varsity Sin· gt"rs. LaFortune Little Th<.·atrt', Fret' admission 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, Discussion, Contt'mporary :\-!oral Issues, Fathcr Ed ,\!alloy, Parish Ll·nten progr.am, Sacred !kart Church Crypt, DownMairs 

•8:I5 
p.m. -Meet Your Major, Philosophy Freshmen and Sophomores, Room 331 O'Shaugnessy, Refreshments Served 


So.. 

This is your last chance!!! Don't miss 
th€ 19s2 SophomoReliteRaRy f=estlval 
-suSAN FROMBERG SCHAEFFER-novelist-­Friday Feb. 26 Reading 7:30 Library Auditorium 
llRC>BERTCREELEV Saturday Feb. 27 Workshop 1:30 Library Lounge Saturday Feb. 27 Reading ·7:30 Library Auditorium 
-~)IJII(,,.._Cllln-rJ r tu:nwc:~~rw·n•mets ~-~ 
You'veaskedforit! Again, aiUC>WWAW is proud to supply all the.TJ/JJ'i! COilllll~ ID~~anddancing you can handle-TONIGHT! 

ENJOY: BLUETAILFLIES,BRANDY 
ALEXANDERS, VEL VET HAMMER............"~ GRASSHOPPERS, AND OTHERS! 
Open 10-2:00 

Sat. N ite: come on out for JAZZ NITE· We 'IIfeature well known jazz music ,free popcorn, MUG NIGHT, and Hurricanes I 

·--·-----------------------­
t 
Friday, February 26, 1982 -page 12 

I I 




I Sports 
Cornhuskers outlast Irish w-otnen 
By MARK HANNUKSELA in there at the end, and they were Powell also led both teams with Sports Writer determined not to let this one slip 12 rebounds.
.· 
past them." "We knew we had to get them in­If there's such a thing as a tough For a while, it may have looked to to a running game," said Matsuhara game to lose, this was it. Matsuhara like her team was going of her game plan. "We're just a little 
Trailing by 13 points on three oc­to let it slip by after all. An 8-3 bit quicker than they are, so we had cassions in the first hal( Notre scoring spurt at the outset ofthe first to take advantage of that, because Dame's women's basketball team overtime session gave the Irish an we knew that they were going to be fought back to tie, watched a five­80-75 lead with 2:31 left. tough on the boards and inside." point overtime lead evaporate, and A little more than a minute later, Nebraska rolled up a 24-10 first­finally succombed t to Nebraska, 98-Theresa Mullins, who hit both ends half advantage on their way to a 39­88 in double-overtime at the ACC of a one-and-one with 10 seconds 36 rebounding edge. last night. left in regulation to send the game Matsuhara called that first-half 
The loss drops the Irish to 16-7 on into overtime, answered two Cathy margin Nebraska's "biggest the season, and may have eliminated Owen free throws with two of her rebounding margin ever -we real­entirely Irish hopes of an NCAA own, and Notre Dame again led by ly had to work hard for that." tournament berth. five, 82-77. Notre Dame did have the better of 
In handing Notre Dame its third Nebraska then ran off six points, Nebraska inside. The Irish front line straight loss, Nebraska raised its the last two coming on a layup by ofSchueth, Matvey and Carrie Bates record to 13-1 5. freshman Debra Powell following a were a combined 26-of-33 from the 
A steal and subsequent layup by steal, to take the lead with 32 floor. sophomore guard Kelli Benson seconds left. Schueth, who was 12-of-1 5 in her broke the 84-84 tie that the first Mary Beth Schueth scored the 39 minutes of action, led all Irish overtime ended in, and gave the final two of her team-high 28 points rebounders with eight. visitors the lead for good with just with 11 seconds remaining to give Bates scored 18 points to lead over four minutes left in the second Notre Dame an 84-83 lead, but then three other Irish players in double extra session. with one second left, Schueth was figures. Mullins added 12, and Mat­
Benson then hit a 1 5-foot jumper whistled for her fifth foul while vey had 11. from the right side, following a steal trying to block Powell's game­Coleman made good use of her by senior center Janet Smith, and winning attempt. starting role by scoring 22 points in Nebraska was on its way. With a crowd ofabout SO persons 42 minutes. 
Those two baskets gave Benson waving their arms behind the Janet Smith, Nebraska's all-time her only four points of the night. Nebraska basket, Powell stepped to leading rebounder, added 16, and 
Notre Dame was within four the line and sank the first of her free Owen had 10. points on two' occassions in the throws, a shot that rolled around the Kathy Hagerstrom, the school's second overtime, the last coming rim before dropping. all-time scoring leader, was held to with barely over a minute left when Powell's second attempt also just eight points before fouling out Laura Dougherty canned a 17-footer rolled around the rim, but this one with 10 seconds left in regulation. to make the score 92-88, but could fell off into the waiting arms ofShari Notre Dame will now turn its get no closer. Matvey, making the second 
See IRISH, page 9

Nebraska scored six points in the overtime necessary. final minute to make the margin of Powell, who was replaced by victory 10. freshman guard Crystal Coleman in 
Irish Coach Mary DiStanislao had the starting lineup in an attempt by no comment after the game. Matsuhara to get more quickness on "We've lost a lot of close bal­the floor, ·finished as the game's 
Scorching Blue Demons invade ACC 
lgames this year, so we're happy to leading scorer by pumping in 34 win one for a change," commented points on 13-of-25 shooting from Cornhusker Coach Colleen Mat­the floor, and 8-of-11 from the free By SKIP DESJARDIN "We're not going to have as muL , "I hope this year we can go in on 
subara. "We had some young players throw line. Sports Editor moaning and groaning." an upswing. The last two years, we Aguirre is gone, and the moaning have slid down. I just hope there'll 
And so we come to the close of and groaning went with him as did be no sliding down this time." another year, and find the DePaul Meyer's "anything's OK with me" It's hard to see how Meyer can call Blue Demons, as usual, right by the coaching philosophy. All of that the 14-game winning streak the

Irish battle Broncos; 
top ofthe nation's college basketball made DePaul a better basketball Demons took into last year's tourna­heap. team. The talent is still there, and the ment "sliding down." Far more like­In the spring of 1980, DePaul was problems are gone. ly is the notion that DePaul's weak

seekplayoffadvantage 
the No. 1 team in the country, Mark Guard Skip Dillard, the other co­schedule -which featured power­Aguirre was the toast of Chicago, captain, is the only senior starter. His houses like Creighton, Evansville By MICHAEL WILKINS behind Fitzpatrick in scoring with and the Demons lost in the first court presence has been a thorn in and Butler down the stretch -final­
Sports Writer 40 points. 

round of the NCAA Tournament. the side of Notre Dame for four ly caught up with them. The Irish seem to have the ob­In the spring of 1981. DePaul was years. He was the play-maker when This year, DePaul winds up its 
The pressure will be on both the vious advantage, losing only three of the No. 1 team in the country, Mark Bradshaw was scoring the points. He regular season here, against Notre Notre Dame and Western Michigan their last twelve league games and Aguirre was the toast of Chicago, is in charge at all times. Dame. That will leave them with a hockey teams this weekend when compiling a 11-4-1 record since and the Demons lost in the first Cummings, the man Sports Jl. full two-week layoff before the the two squads face-off at the ACC capturing the Great Lakes Invitation­round of the NCAA Tournament. lustrated called the "best basketball tournament even starts. Although 
for their last league games in the al Tournament over ·christmas 
Now it is the spring of 1982, player in the country under 7-4," is the schedule has been no tougher ­Central Collegiate Hockey Associa­break. 
DePaul has lost just one game, and is the force to be neutralized. He leads Evansville, Ohio and Furman were tion this season. Poulin and left wing Bill Rothstein solidly embedded in a power the Demons in scoring and rebound­the opponents down the stretch this The pressure will be on the Irish lead the Notre Dame scoring attack. struggle with Virginia and North ing, and is the emotional, spiritual, year -Meyer is planing on that time 
to clinch the home-ice advantage for Poulin is the third leading goal 
Carolina at the top of the college and on-court leader of the team. off to prepare. the first round of the CCHA playoffs. scorer in the league with 23 tallies, 
polls. But Mark Aguirre is in Dallas, When he is hot, so is DePaul -"This is a good bunch of young The icers must win one more game while Rothstein is among the 
anything but the toast of the town, which is most ofthe time. men. They try hard and they work this weekend than fourth-place league's point leaders with 38. 
and the Demons have visions of The only loss of the season came hard. I want us always to be on the Michigan, who travels to play The player to watch this weekend advancing far beyond the first round early in the year on a trip to UCLA. attack, but play a constant defense. Bowling Green. may be Notre Dame's junior left 
ofthe NCCA Tournament. Since then, the Demons have won "We don't take the little things for The momentum is behind the wing Kurt Bjork. Bjork has tallied 
"The previous two years when we 20 games in a row. Over the past granted as we did," Meyer says now. Irish, coming offa Monday night vic­five goals and four assits in his last 
were beaten, we went in with the three years, excluding the tourna­"We have worked on all that little tory over second-place Michigan five games, including a goal and an idea we could outscore anybody," ment, this team is 78-3. But still, stuff that can trip you up." State. Lefty Smith's squad can notre­assist in Monday's defeat ofMichigan 
confesses DePaul's coach of 40 there are problems. Wednesday Sunday at 2 p.m., the Irish will try 
ly on nationally-ranked Bowling State. years, Ray Meyer. "I don't like that night's game against Furman was a to salvage their season, and their Green to pull a sweep over Michi­
Not everything is going just right idea We might lose again this year, good example. pride, by pulling offthe kind ofupset gan; however, and will be pulling for the Irish, though, as freshman 
but the team that beats us will earn DePaul won, but only by a point. on which Notre Dame seems to have out all the stops to sweep the series. centerJohn Deasey will be unable to it. I don't think we'll go out on the Those squeakers against less a patent. The ninth-place Western Michi­play after suffering a broken jaw in court and say, 'We're DePaul. We've talented teams have been charac­Unfortunately, they may have
gan Broncos, need a sweep this last weekend's rough series. Junior put our shoes on and it's over.' Our teristic of DePaul for several years, 
weekend, combined with a sweep Mark Doman will replace Deasey at caught DePaul a couple ofweeks too
players want to make sure we're but they seem to be even more by either Northern Michigan or Lake center. soon. 

ready this time." prevalent this season. Superior, to clinch the final playoff Junior Bob McNa!Jlara is 
This time, the Demohs will have "Sometimes we forget how we've spot. scheduled to start in goal Friday 
to do the job without Aguirre and gotten a lead in a game, and then Western also has momentum built night. Bobby Mac has won five ofhis 
guard Clyde Bradshaw. Will it be we've just played well enough to up after sweeping Ferris State last last six starts and has given the Notre tougher? win," says Meyer. "You know, when weekend to keep their playoffhopes Dame coaching staff the confidence 
"I had more fun before this season you play with a fire, sooner or later alive. The Broncos feature two ofthe to play either of their two goalies. 
even started than I had all last year," you'll get burned, but I think they most feared scoring threats in the McNamara will split the series with 
says Terry Cummings, the junior co­know that." CCHA -seniors Ross Fitzpatrick senior Dave Laurion, who stopped 
captain and star. "When you have Unfortunately for Demon fans, the and Bob Scurfield. 25 shots in Monday night's victory. someone like Mark, you're going to team seems to get burned at just the, Fitzpatrick is coming off a seven­have a business atmosphere, with wrong time -March. They spend 
point weekend at Ferris State and is This is Parent's Weekend for 
him thinking about the pros. We are the entire season working just hard currently tied for fifth place with Notre Dame. The Irish skaters will 
in college, and we should be think­enough to get by mediocre op­Notre Damt"s Dave Poulir. in the probably be more intense than usual
' 
ing about the Notre Dame's and ponents, and can't "get up" for the league scoring fi1.C.. Sr..~!'j._,d is just in front of their parents. 
UCLA's. That's fun thinking. tournament. 
Inside: 
Track,p.lO 
Spirit,p. 9 
Briefs,p. 8 






