.Molinelli design -page 5 
' ' 


VOL. XVI, NO. lJ4 an indepmdent student newspaper serving norre dame and saint mary's THURSDAY, FEBRUARY II, 1982 
New SBP, SBVP 
Burke, Yonchack win race 
By TIM NEELY winning only Pangborn, Lewis, Holy won by large margins in Stanford .Veuos Staff Cross, Dillon, Keenan, Stanford, and and Brccn-Phillips, in addition to Zahm, and tying the Burke/Yonchak wins in Farley and Zahm. 
Lloyd Burke, Bob Yonchak, Chris ticket in Alumni. Only -J.2.5 percent of Notre Tayback, and Greg .\1iller came away In Student Senate District I. Dame's undergraduate population winners after yesterday's Student Tayback came hack, after t1nishing voted. Tucker determined that only 
Body Pn:sident/Vicc: Pn:sident and second on :vtonday, to ddcat Cathy 2'i percent of thl· student body al'· Student Senate runoff's. Krause by a SH.7--J 1.5 percent mar­tually cast ballots for Burke and In a turnout characterized by Om­gin. He took every dorm in District I Yonchak. budsman Election Chairman Andy except Lewis and Carroll by rather Tucker as "disappointing," Burke convincing margins, including a With the elections over, the .and Yonchak received 59.1 percent near-unanimous vote:: from the resi­transition period trom the current of the vote, including a sweep of the dents of Holy Cross. administration of Student Body Tower Quad and several victories by District .2 saw :vtiller take every President Don Murday to the future 
wide margins -some as great as North Quad dorm except one of Burke bl·gins, to conclude on nine-to-one. Patrick Borchers and Cavanaugh and Keenan in defeating April I when Burke and Yonchak of. Maureen Burke pulled 40.9 percent, AI Hank, 57 pcrcent-43 percent. lie fidally take oftkc. 
Reagan rejects economy counterplan 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Ada): af­dc:!lcit budget. Hollings said his altcrnative could ter President Reagan demanded that :'vtajority l.cadcr Howard Baker .Jr .. cut Reagan's projected dc!kit of his budget critics "put up or shut R-Tcnn., in his most notable detour S91. 5 billion for ll)Hj to S4.2 billion, up," the White House yesterday tlat­to date from Reagan's game plan. and produce a surplus in 1985, thl· ly rejected a Democrat's call for a declared the Hollings proposal )'l'ar Reagan forecasts a dc!kit of SH.2 virtual freeze on Pentagon spending "intc:rcsting and worthwhile." And billion. while trimming by half the ad­his dc:puty, Sen. Ted Stevens of The plan calls for a one-year ministration's three-year tax cut. Alaska, agreed that "It merits a lot of frc:ezc on defcnsl· spending aturrc:nt 
But dt·spitc the claim by presiden­consideration." levels, elimination ofone year's cost­tial spokesman Larry Speakes that And Baker told White I louse ofll. of-living incrc:ascs for Social Security Sen. Ernest Hollings, 0-S.C., "hasn't cials privately that he regarded Hol­and government pension recipients put up," the Senate's top two lings' idea worth investigating. even and major reductions in thl· thrt·c­Republican leaders found merit in as presidential aides insisted it ycar tax cut plan Congrl·ss approved the counterplan to Reagan's big-wasn't. last summer. 
Baker and Stevens sc:cmcd more In short, Hollings would wipl· out enthusiastic than the Senate kalkr I0 percent of till' nus scheduled li>r of Hollings' own party, Robert C. this yc:ar and trim ncxt )Tar's cut of
Earth Day 
Byrd, D·W.Va., who said Hollings' another I0 percent to half that. In idc:as "will be looked at with all the t1rst phase: ofthl· plan, taxes were other proposals." cut by 'i pcrl.Tnt late: last year. 
Byrd urged the president to takl· Hollings and sevl·ral Hl·puhlicans the "courageous step" that Prcsi· ~aid tht· detaib of the plan were not dent Carter took in I9HO of as important as the fact that it could By MICHAEL ORTMAN :\tiller teaches a course at Saint :'vtary's entitled "Social 


S.U.R.E. examines ecology issues 
withdrawing the budget and submit­See ECONOMY, page 4Neu•sStuff Ecology," and much of his classroom material carries 

ting a new one. over into this group. Thl· group consists of only a hand full of peoplt:, hut The biggest obstacle SURE has bn:n li>rced to tht· issues it explores an· ofglobal importance. Students overcome is the limited availability of reading material llnitl·d for Rcsponsible Energy ( S. U.R.E. ), a collection of in the Notre:: Dame library. As a result, Phipps says. the 

Former UN.ambassador 
Notrt· Dame and Saint .\1ary's students from a variety of group has found a home on the Saint .\1ary's campus. a<:adl'lnic conccntrations, has been exploring the:: many "Notre Dame's library is totally lacking in laymen's issut•s of energy altcrnativcs since tht• spring of 1979. publications on conservation and energy issues," he 
speaks on thirdworld. 
"This started out as a basically anti-nuke group," ad­says. "They l.'arry the more technical publications. Saint mits junior :'vtary Patrick, the group's treasurer. "But we .\1ary's library is much better li>r our purposes. Proti:s­quickly realized that we didn't know enough about the sor .\1illcr helps out a lot in tlnding pertinent rc:ading By MICHELE DIETZ believes that private enterprise built issuc:s to solidly ddl:nd any side. So we changed our materials and tllms he uses for his dass." StaffReportet· this countf)'. It didn't, hut he think!. 
direction somewhat. Now we concc:ntratc on studying The frightening realities and threats present during so. His probkm in the world is thl· the: isSUl'S, and discussing possible altt·rnatives and solu­the: nuclear age are driven home through discussion of "The li.S. tends to look at the rl'St same as his probkm with t federalism tions." 
readings circulated among group members. <Juestions of the world though an cast-west lie doesn't recognize that this 
SliHE con· raist·d in recent meetings include: lens," Donald .\1cHc:nry, former U.S. country ts llilll·rl·nt in I'JH.2 than in n·ntratcs its • How much exposure to what radiation levels can Representative to the United Na­1790." dli>rts more on the human body withstand (i.e. television, sun, X-rays, tions, said in a lecture yesterday .\1cllenry also hdkvcs that the information than nuclear power, etc.)? sponsored by Student Governmt·nt. United States is also often ignorant of al·tion. "We're:: an • How misleading have past studies been regarding "We have a tendency not to look the situations in these developing education the safety of privately and publidy owned nuclear at problems of nt·wer countries of countries. "We're at a time when 
group," asserts President Ron J>hipps. "We: simply try to facilities? thl.· world in terms of their own Europeans are more understanding karn more about c:ncrgy issues and then try to create an • Regarding nuclear power, did mankind unleash a merits, but in terms of our own ex­about probkms third world awareness. People can learn from other people in terms new technology without first solving some serious periences," .\1dlcnry said. "We try countries face thl·n we Americans anyone can understand. And as we learned in the early problems, like disposal of waste and decommissioning to solve: problems in other countries arc," he said. "I would give our going, you have to know what you're talking about of power plants? the way we solved our own, but we countf)' a very poor report card." Ill' before you can act responsibly. • What is the political dimatc surrounding energy forget the way we: did it. Wl·'vc continued, "The time has come to 
"People who come to our meetings have a wide (i.e. dismantling of the Department of Energy, budget romanticized our past. Times have ask ourselves why. Could it he they variety of perspectives on energy issues," Phipps cuts. dc!l:nsc spending, etc. )? changed." might he right, and we might be adds."Somc:: of us arc engineers -more interested in • How viable are which energy altl·rnativcs, especial­.\tcHenry explained that people of wrong?" thl· tlThnical aspens of nudear power and the al­ly solar? the United States expect quick solu­Another probkm with the way wt· tl'fnativcs. Others arc sociologists who focus more on • How do you make people aware of the fans and tions, but we li>rget that our own his­handle third world niscs, according thl.· people -both those making the:: decisions and myths surrounding these important issues? tory was not that simple. The U.S. to .\1cHenry, is in our resistanet: to those affc:cted by those decisions -and what can be tends to li>rgl·t that we had war and change. "The Sovkts recognize done." SURE's structure is informal and discussion With Earth Day only two months away, this last ques­slavc:ry and other such hurdles to there is going to be change, and with oriented. The t1rst meeting of this semester saw one of tion will receive the moM attention in thc coming overcome, and, thus, we get im­change, instability and turmoil. Thl· the largt·st turnouts in the group's brief history. Initial weeks. SURE will be linked to the Free University patient with the third world, U.S. tends to want its cake and to cat planning of Earth Day was a main topic ofconversation. program for the remainder of the semester in an effort :'vtcHenry said. it too. We talk about change hut wt· Schedukd this year for April .21, Earth Day is a national­to attract more interested students from both He added that .. Reagan's current arc uncomli>rtahk with it. We tend ly rn·ognized day set aside for ecological awareness. campuses. The next meeting is scheduled for Tuesday, policies conw !rom thl· President's to he more comfortabll' with the 
Fanrlty guidance is olkrcd by Joe :\tiller, the chair· February 16 at 6 p.m. in :'vtadaleva Hall (room number own concept of the United Statt•s; See McHENRY, page 4
man of the Psychology Department at Sainr \lary's. TBA). maybe even out of Hollywood. He 

News Brie/§ 
Thursday, February 11, 1982 -page 2 
By The Observer and The AssociatedPress 
Observerstands behind its stories 
Western delegateSpressed for an early and lengthy recess of the European Conference on Security and Cooperation yesterday after two stormy days of debate over the Polish crisis. Pierre Aubert, foreign minister of neutral Switzerland which has played a key role during the past 17 months ofthe conference,-sharp­ly criticized the military regime in Poland. He said that in the present crisis in East-West relations "we believe that the only reasonable solution is to quickly suspend the Madrid meeting and to return here after an interruption ofseveral months." Aubert asked how the con­ference work could proceed unless the Helsinki Final Act, which the 
Madrid conference is reviewing, "is really respected by all par­ticipating states." The final act, signed by most of the countries of Eastern and Western Europe, plus the United States and Canada, lays down a code ofinternational conduct, including respect for human rights. Secretary of State Alexander M. Haig jr. said Tuesday that there could no longer be "business as usual" at the Madrid con­ference because of the Polish crisis. He said that Chief U.S. delegate Ambassador Max M. Kampelman would continue to discuss the Polish crisis to the exclusion of other conference business. Some conference sources said they expected Switzerland would formally propose a recess within the next few days. Ambassador Javier Ruperez, chief of the delegation of Spain which is host to the con­ference, said the Swiss desire for a suspension ofthe conference had been "well received by Western delt:gations." -AP 
An Illinois manwas to end his camp-out atop a 6.5o­foot smokestack at the Clifty Creek coal-fired power plant this morn­ing, a spokesman for the Greenpeace environmental group said yesterday. And police have said they'll be waiting for him at the bot­tom. jon Hinck said jeff Pettersen, 27, of Wilmette, lll., planned to climb down the stack at about 9 a.m. yesterday The protest against emission ofsulfur dioxide from the coal-fired plant, which is alleged to cause acid rain pollution, began at about 3 a.m. Monday when Pettersen another Greenpeace member began climbing the stack. 
Police arrested james Stiles, 28, of Medford, Mass., when he came 
down after eight hours Monday and have said they also will arrest Pettersen. He was arraigned on a charge ofcriminal trespassTuesday and released from jail after posting a S I ,000 bond. Pettersen told Hinck by a two-way radio Monday night that he would stay atop the stackfor three or four days. "I think he just feels like it's about time. It might be boredom more than anything," Hinck said Wednesday, ad­ding Pettersen knew police plan to arrest him for criminal trespass­ing. -AP 
Britain's $1.86-billion Chevaline nuclear warhead, designed for use on the Royal Navy's Polaris missile, has successfully completed tests and will be put into service later this year, the Defense Ministry said. The first multiple warhead will be fitted in the Renown, one of the navy's four Polaris submarines, a spokesman said. The Renown conducted the last of 14 test firings 
Monday submerged 30 miles off Cape Canaveral, Fla. Nuclear war­
heads were not used. The Chevaline, which is designed to get past 
ballistic missile defenses, was developed to upgrade the Polaris 
missiles until they are replaced in the 1990s by the U.S. Trident sys­
tem. -AP 

Nearly 300 youthSdemonstrated outside the Soviet Embassy yesterday in Indonesia against alleged espionage acivities. The members of the National Committee of Indonesian Youth tried to break through the iron gate of the heavily guarded compound. Five demonstrators were allowed to enter and submit a statement of protest. An assistant Soviet military attache and the head of the local office of the Soviet airline Aeroflot were arrested last weekend, and the attache was expelled from the country. The government said he was arrested in a restaurant as he was receiving an important docu­ment from an Indonesian army officer. The Aerotlot official was accused of being a member of the KGB, the Soviet secret police. ­
AP 

El Salvador'Smost active relief agency says it has run out 
of medicine for 33,000 war refugees and that the government is 
blocking delivery ofemergency medical aid from abroad. juan Fran­
cisco Zamora, president of the Salvadoran Green Cross, says the 
agency has been waiting since October for a Public Health Ministry 
permit to retrieve three tons of antibiotics, tranquilizers, vitamins 
and surgical equipment from a customs warehouse here. A separate 
Green Cross request for permission to import 36 two-way radios, 
one for each of its tleld offices caring for refugees, has gone un­
answered for the same length of time, he says. No ministry official 
contacted by The Associated Press could explain the four-month 
delay in the permits, which they said usually take four weeks to 
process. Public Health Minister Jose Ramon Avalos Navarrate, a 
member ofthe country's ruling civilian-military junta, has been away 
from his office· all week. A western diplomat said, however that the 
government's inaction was "not surprising" in light ofwhat he called 
the Salvadoran military's suspicion that the Green Cross and other 
relief agencies an: partial to leftist rebels in this Central American 
country's civil war. The Green Cross is the Latin American equiv­
alent of the Red Cross. -AP 

Mostly clear todayand tonight. Cold today with the high in the upper teens to low 20s. Low tonight zero to eight below. Increasing cloudiness tomorrow with the high again in the upper teens to low 20s. -A.P 
The past week has been somewhat more lively than usual for the campus as well as for The Obseroer due to 

John McGrath

several factors. On one hand, the campus scene, par­ticularly in regard to student body elections, the un­Editor in Chief dying keg issue and the resignation of Fr. Richard -----------------~ Conyers as rector of Keenan Hall, has come alive a bit. But on the other hand, the efforts of our news reor-iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~iiiiiliiiiiiiiii~~iiiii­ganization arc beginning to bear fruit, with a resulting surge in the depth and quantity of campus news 
coverage. Whenever a news department becomes more vote in all policy-setting decisions of ~his newspaper. aggresive, however, someone's toes will inevitably be That principal was demonstrated m the case of our stepped on. Apparently some feet are soaking in water editorial endorsement Monday of student body prest­this week. It certainly comes as no shock to me to dent candidates. The decision was not made by one or receive an obscene phone call or two after a particular-two "power brokers" in a smoke-filled room, but rather ly incisive story is published in this newspaper. Let's by an overwhelming decision by t~e members of ~he take a closer look for a moment, however, at some ofthe editorial board following presentations and a questiOn criticism that has been leveled at us during the past and answer session with each of the tickets in the race. 
week. 
First, consider the keg issue. All the fuss surrounds Vice-President for Student Affairs Fr. john Van Wolvlear's recent rejection of a student and rector 
sponsored proposal that would have opened the door for the trial use of kegs on cainpus. The Observer reported the rejection in its Friday, january 15 issue, but little else was said about the matter until I made men­tion of the fact in this column two weeks ago. The real reaction came just over a week ago, however, after John Macor, a regular inside columnist, penned a rather scathing appraisal ofwhat he feels is the perennial lack of concern for student rights demostrated by the ad-So, if you disagreed with our choice for SBP, go ahead and take it out on The Obseroer, because we st.and be­hind the consensus decision of our board of dtrectors -students at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's just like 
you. But, if you disagree with an inside column's argu­ment, remember, that it does not necessarily represent offical policy of this newspaper. , . 
On another front, I d hke to set the record straight about our coverage of Fr. Conyer's resignation. Last Tuesday, we ran a top priority story on the front page ofThe Observer report­ing the news of the rector's decision to resign along with an adjoining excerpt from the letter that Fr. Con­yers had written and posted 

in Keenan Hall. The night
ministration. For the record, 
before publication, I talked
I must say that I agree with 
to Fr. Conyers on the
John's points, and that his ef­
telephone and informed him
fort to comment on the sad 
of our publication plans,
demise of the carefully­
including the printing on his

formulated keg proposal is 
letter. After giving the mat­

at least in contrast to the ap­
ter some thought, he told

parent "roll over and die" at­
me that, in essence, he felt

titude of much of the 
student political bureaucracy on campus. That is not the point of this article, however. The pvint is one that apparently has been lost on some of our readers: opinions expressed in an inside column are strictly those of the author -not necessarily those of the majority of the editorial board of The Observer. This majority consensus is necessary to approve any 
editorial for print in the newspaper. 
An inside column appears four times each week on page two of The Observer and, as 1 mentioned before, represents the point of view of one author. All inside column writers are members of the editorial board of this newspaper. An analogy here is not hard to draw. Simply pick up a copy of The Chicago Sun-Times. On page two, you can't miss the column by Mike Royko, one of the most respected -or hated -columnists in America. His opinions are no more those of the publis­hers of The Sun-Times than are my ideas or those of john Macor, in this column, those of offical Obseroer policy. In fact, both .\1acor and myself, or any other inside columnist for that matter, have only one equal 
Design Editor ....................... :\loni<.:a Gugk Design Assistants ............... Marilyn Larkin Laj•out Staff. ....... Ed Carrol. Chu<.:k Brady Typesetters... · .......................... AI ~ovas 
BobJudge Copy Editor ................ .........jm: .\1usumcd B&T LaJ•out ............ .. Ryan Vcr B~rkmo~s Sports Copy Editor............. Skip D~sjardin Typist. .. .....Jeanine Hyn~s ND DaJ• Editor.............. Randy Goskowi<.:z Ad Design... .. ...... The Tor<.:h Photographer. ..............John .\la<.:or Guest Appearances.... ....... Un-gooey .\lax 
Prod Dreams of Roadtrips Peep Heap Cheap 
The Observer tUSPS 598 9201 1s publiShed Monday through FriBa y and on horne football Saturdays except dunng exarn and vacat1on penods The Observer 1s publiShed by the students of Notre Darne and Sa1n1 Marys Col· lege Subscnpt1ons rna y be purchased tor $25 per year iS t 5 per sernester) by wnt1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Darne lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer 15 a mernber of The Associated Press All reproduCtiOn nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Darne lnd1ana 46556 

no regret for what he had written, and therefore would feel no fear or embarassment if it were printed in The Observer. Two days later, however, Fr. Conyers claimed that our article was "unfair and misleading" because it gave the impression that he was throwing in the towel by resigning. It is true that we noted the rector's al­ledged difficulties with the administration in the story before we noted that he also was seeking his Ph.D.; in 
the excerpt, written by Fr. Conyers the rector himself 
mentions the Ph.D. motivation only after he notes" ... 
it has been nine years of tlghting with the Administra­
tion and misunderstanding by students, top administra­
tion and fellow rectors ..." Don't get me wrong, I have 
a lor' ofrespect for Fr. Conyers and his well-documented 
support of rational student causes, but the facts speak 
for themselves. It's easy for students, administrators, 
and faculty to turn to the "misquoted' or "unfair" tag 
when they don't agree with what The Observer is 
reporting, but it doesn't alter the truth -and in this 
instance, we stand behind our news department. 

montgomery® 
w1ll conduct mterv1ews on this campus MONDAY, FEB. 22,!.. TUESDAY, FEB. 23. Career positions in vertical transportation MARKETING/ MANAGEMENT will be discussed with degree cand1dates in BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION. For more information about Montgomery and our future visit to your campus, contact your placement 
OffiCe. 


montgomery.., 
ELEVATORS ESCALATORS POWER WALKS & RAMPS AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER 

The Observer Thursday, February 11, 1982 -page 3 
'Vicious cycle' 


Jones speaksonsexual asym.m.etry 
By ROBERT MAROVICH 
News Staff 
"Men and women bring different 
needs and expectations to mar­
riage," explained E. Michac:l Jones, 
editor ofFidelity magazine during a 
ln·ture on "The Asymmetry of 
Sexes" last nigh£. 
The lecture, sponsored by the 
Thomas More Society of Notre 
Damt·, replaced the originally 
scht·dult:tl Fr. Michad McDonaugh 
h:uure on "Vatican 11: on the Prin­ciples of Social and Economic Life." Fr..\kDonaugh's lecture has been rescht·dulcd for later in the month. 
IJsing exarnpks from sources in American literature and the Gospd ofSt. Paui,Jom:s stated that an asym­mt·tric marriage situation is benefi­
cial for a stable family relationship. According to St. Paul, each man needs to love his wife as he would love himself, and each woman needs to respect her husband. Jones asserted that the man also needs to carry authority in the household, and the woman needs the security that the male can bring; as a result the male and female would search for other ways to satisfy their needs. 
jones paraphrased Washington Ir­ving's "Rip Van Winkle" to give ex­amples of sexual asymmetry. In the story, Rip was a "henpecked" hus­band whose family authority was fre­quently questioned by Dame Van Winkle: whb was, according to Ir­
ving, a "virago" and a "shrew." In the Van Winkle houst·hold, Jones ex­plained, the asymmetry was bruken, and Rip sought his escape from "duties of paternity" by taking his gun and dog and retreating to the forest. Dame Van Winkle, forced to assume the dominant role in the home, eventually died while trying to assert herselfwith a male tinker in the village. 

Jones said that asymmetry in the household can force the male to seck other outlets, such as homosexual gatherings and contact sports, and can send the female in search of her position in the. busi­ness world. He stated that ERA and feminism arc possible outlets for a female seeking the security she lost in a faltering marriage. 
"It's a vicious circle," Jones said. 
El Salvador 
Junta indicts six for nun murders 
SAN SALVADOR, El Salvador (AP) secret investigation said they were !caving the internatioal airport, 24 -El Salvador's U.S.-backcd civilian­told privately by Salvadoran offiials miles from San Salvador. military junta indicted six national that the six suspects were being 
guardsmen yesterday on charges taken beforeJudge Rauda Murcia. Their bodies were found next day they took part in the murder of four The suspects have not been by peasants and a justice .of the Amcrican t.·hurchwl~men more than publicly identified. peace ordered thcm buried uniden­
a year ago, Wt·stcrn diplomats said. The four Roman Catholic women tified in single grave. On Dec. 4, the 
Tht· Dcfenst.· Ministry issucd a -Maryknoll nuns Ita Ford, 40, and American ambassador at thc timc, one-scntt:nce statement that the Maura Clarke, 46, of New York, Ur­Robert White, had the grave opened, government had concluded its in­suline nun Dorothy Kazcl, 40, of identified the women. He ordered vestigation of the Dec. 2, 1980, mur­Cleveland, and lay worker Jean autopsies, which revealed each was 
ders and would make its case public Donovan, 27, also of Cleveland -shot in the head and at least one ap­"within a few days." disappeared Dec. 2, 1980, after parently had been raped. The ministry cancelled a news 
A cold comment in /be form ofan icicle bespeaks oftbe t·oltl
conft:rencc scheduled to announce the indictments. No Salvadoran offi­u•eather vfSouth Bend. Tempratures hovered in the single digits


Governors disapprove 
yesterday making life ve~)' uncomfortable for all here. (Photo by john .'11acor) 
cial would talk publicly of the case. 
Thc development follows the U.S. Congress' approval last week of .!!55 

ofNew Federalism
million in additional military aid for this war-torn Central American 
NOTRE 

count.ry, whcre leftist guerrillas arc WASHINGTON (AP)-President Reagan budget. trying to topple the government. At Reagan's new federalism is running The National Goverhors' Associa­DAME least :\2,000 people are believed to into fresh opposition from gover­tion holds its midwinter meeting in have been killed since the Oct. I;, nors who say the domestic programs Washington beginning Feb. 21, and A.C.C. 1979 coup that brought the junta to they would inherit are being Hunt said he would ask the gover­power. stripped down to pay for record in­nors to consider an alternative to 
SUN.

Two army helicopters tlew the creases in defense. The result, some Reagan's new federalism plan to shift 
thru 
suspects from national guard head­say, could be higher state taxes. 40 programs to state an local gove­FEB.· 21st quarters in San Salvador to a court­Republican and Democratic ments. house in Zacotecoluca, 37 miles governors alike arc calling for a re­
Wednesday Night Show
southca.~t. for arraignment before a examination of administration "I think we'll come up with some civilian judge, said the diplomats, priorities while looking for new grand swap idea, but it will not be Hook's Special Discount Night who requested anonymity for policy sources of revenue for their finan­the president's plan," Hunt said. (Check at Hook's Stores for Details) rt·asons. cially squeezed state budgets. 
Gov. John Spellman of Washing­None of the more than 30 gover­Tht· six guardsmt:n have bct:n ton, a Republican elected in 1980, nors who responded to an As­&SHOWS dctained ti,r l 0 months. said the 1983 Reagan budget, if ap­sociated Press survey offered an Wed., Thurs., Fri., 8 p.m. 
Military sourccs, who' asked proved by Congress, could force unqualificd endorsement of the Sat., Noon, 4p.m. &8 p.m. anonymity, said two othcr suspccts him to seck an increase in state Reagan budget. Several said they ;:.~L" Sun., 2p.m. and 6p.m. also had hecn arrcstt:d in connec­taxes. were analyzing Reagan's plan and tion with the case and that one of "This state is in severe financial declined comment. 
Tickets 

them t'onfcssnl his dircct participa­-distress now." he said, noting that 
PRICES ON SALE 
tion in the crime. The source, who his administration already has had to There was widesprcad opposition $5.50-$7.00-$8.00 ACC askcd not 10 bc quoted by namc, absorb S400 million in ti:dcral cut­to Reagan's plan to increase defense NO & SMC STUDENTS BOX OFFICE refused to identify the two men. hacks. spending by 18 percent. The HALF PRICE FOR Box Office 
Thc:rt· was no immcdiatt· word if Democratic Gov. James B. Hunt of projccted S91. 'i billion dclicit alsu Wed., Thurs., 8 p.m. 9 a.m.-5 p.m. those two also were indicted. North Carolina also predicted state prompted l'onccrn among govcr­Sat., 12 Noon Sun., 6 p.m. SHOWS Diplomats who have followcd tlw ta.xcs would he forced highcr by the nors. 
" 



......................................
i''ENGINEERS' Ill! ...........o'E'L'i'v·E·rfi'N.G..t·~·N·o·r·ifE..oA.MEu.............. ._ WEEK"~ 
and SAINT MARY'S
Feb. 10 ~ -Industry Fair ~ Godfather's Pizza® 
~Beam Contest ~ §() l)()ll~t miss ~ClZZ ll?~UIClrS '-College Bow 1 ~ 
'ET Al' 
~ -1st round~ ~See ~ lt·r~it.l I ·\f t:()() 
~ postersfor details ~ 
1 

~......,...........'-~~ --lh 1 t .,: 

Order the EXPRESS DELIVERY: 

~lOW€RS anb qa~ts 
Jc1zz ()lclllist 
Medium pepperoni. sausage, or combo :
~oR all occassaons Com€ In anO BROWS€. 
PAUL KOSIDOWSKI and receiue quicker seruice.l 
................................................................... I= 
C):()()-1():J() 
Driver has fresh pizza for sale on truck. 1 
MIKE DALY t..l:I.QJJ.&.S. 
I= 
~ 

! Mon.-Thurs. and Sun. 5PM -10:30 PM
Wyqant ~loRal Co. 

1():J()-l
327 lancolnway 
I Fri. and Sat. 5PM · 12:30 AM I 
i i
,..........................................................................................................................._ 
The Observer -Sports Thursday, February 11, 1982 -page 4 
EASY AMTRAK BID ..... Film Club broadens impact 
$5.00 to Niles depot 
For reservations or schedule information, call us or contact your travel agent. 





UnitedUmo 
POETESS 




SONIA SANCHEZ 
DRAMATIC READINGand DIALOGUE 
7p~t~. ~AudUtvdwtt ....___l'lcWl6day, Felt. II--., 

After a difficult stan in January of 1981, the ND-SMC Film Club, now under new management, plans to broaden its impact on the movies shown at Notre Dame and St. Marys, said the club's president Andy Cier. Cier said that promoting the artistic aspect of film is the primary goal of the newly formed club. He ex­plained that the club will offer a wide range of films, something which has been lacking here in the past. 
In addition to showing such 
movies as Stanley Kubrick's Clock­
work Orange (Feb.20), Mel Brook's 
The Producers, and The Godfather 
Part II, the Film Club intends to run a series of lectures with various ac­claimed film critics. 
To aid in this task, the club is working with Dr. Mitchell Lifton, the head of the Notre Dame-St. Marys Communication Department. Dr. Lifton's work has had an integral role in the club's existence. 

At the pesent time the Film Club has twenty members but Cier said that to acclomplish their purpose in­ceased membeship is necessary. To attract new members the club will be showing a film. free ofcharge, at a date to be announced. 
The club also offers various ac­tivities for its members. This semes­ter's activities include a trip to Chicago to preview various upcom­ing movies. 
'Nation must endure' 

Reagan sticks by policies 
WASHINGTON (AP)-President Reagan refused to retreat yesterday from his plan for reducing inflation in the years ahead even though he acknowledged the nation must endure the highest unemployment in decades and a recession along the way. 
In an economic report to Congress, Reagan also held firmly to his record-deficit budget and predicted that his tax-cut medicine would nurse the nation back to a "vigorous economic recovery" this year. 
At the same time, Federal Reserve Chairman Paul A. Volcker vowed to hold to an anti-inflation course of slower money growth. And he warned congress that without small­er deficits, "we would be on a colli­
sion course" between the need for 
economic growth and the lack of 
money for lending to finance that 
expansion. 
Volcker told a committee that the independent Federal Reserve Board, the nation's central bank, will not waver from its policy even if Congress tolerates deficits ap­proaching S I 00 billion a year. 
Reagan's new budget plan predicts record deficits averaging 591 billion from 1982 through 1984, but the figures assume Congress will approve savings averaging S80 billion a year. 
Volcker's comments appeared to bolster arguments by Reagan's critics that the Fed's tight-money policy along with Reagan's loose­deficit policy will drive up interest rates again as the government and private borrowers compete for a limited supply ofcapital. 
But Reagan's 215-page economic report ceded no ground to the critics' prediction that giant-sized deficits will keep the economy in an ever worsening downturn. 
"I am convinced that our policies, now that they are in ))lace, are the appropriate response to our current difficulties," Reagan said in a state­ment with the annual report. The report was prepared by his Council ofEconomic Advisers. 
Instead, the report stressed the progress the administration is making in reducing inflation and the growth of federal spending, and its commitment to stay on that course. 

In the clearest language to date, the administration acknowledged essentially that it is fighting inflation with a recession and high unemploy­ment , at least temporarily. 
The report acknowledged the "short-lived trade-oil between un­employment and the rate of infla­tion" and said: "this means that policies designed to reduce inflation significantly will temporarily in­crease unemployment and reduce output growth." 
.. . McHenry 
continuedfrom page 1 
status quo than with the uncertainty that goes along with the develop­ment process." 
McHenry concluded that there is a beliefin third world countrres that 
U.S. problems would be greatly reduced ifAmericans could only get on with the process of change. He believes the U.S. must recognize that problem:j are brewing and that a number of countries will inevitably be in turmoil in the next decade. 

, , ,Economy 
continuedfrom page 1 say ot ·the Hollings approach: "I do 
not agree with everything he sad. form a framework for debate among Nordo I reject it." those unhappy with the large At the White House, officials said deficits in Reagan's budget. the president is not interested in 
Baker, who spoke on the Senate pursuing a freeze on government floor as soon as Hollings had spending and tax reductions. presented his proposal, said: Reagan's own budget calls for a S33 "I support the president. I support billion increase in defense spending, 
his budget. I support his tax policies S27 billion in additional cuts in and I expect they will succeed." domestic programs and no major tax With that, however, he went on to increases. 
:sPECTACULAR SUITE : 
THIRDEVENT : Carol Wincencand ••• •• • • •• • Heidi Lehwalder •• • •• •• Harp and flute duo 
These prize-winning artistsplay 

• 

exquisite repertoire together 
February 11, 1982 • •• 
lin Auditorium ••• Tickets •
•
$4.00 Adult_. $2.00 Student! 's Studen • 




~----~------~--------~--~~------~----------------------------------------------------­
Using current technology 



Molinelli designs space station 
BY MICHAEL WILKINS 
StuJ! Reporter 
The concept of a space factory 
manufacturing aluminum for the 
dcvdopmcnt of a space colony may 
sn·m like a far-fetched idea, but for 
tifth year architecture student Mic­
had Molinelli, that idea is a dd1nite possibility. 
.\1olincIIi has designed exactly such a project as an entry in the 22nd Annual Reynolds Aluminum Competition for Architectural Stu­dents. Molinelli's entry will represent Notre Dame in national competition later this month. 
Current technology would enable the production of a space colony housing I0,000 people in as little as I 0 years. But Molinelli's design is a sort of"middle step," a space factory housing approximately 300 workers. 
The ship would actually be a fac­tory as wdl as a dormitory, launched in piet·es through a cargo hold similar to the Space Shuttle and later assembled in span·. The ship would bt· located in a position where the t•arth's gravity and the moon's gravity produce a zero gravitational mode which would enable the ship to remain stationary in space. 
The design of the ship uses aluminum for the structure and the skin. Aluminum is used since it is t·hcaply transported into space and also since there is no need for the strl·ngth of steel due to the lack of gravitation in space. The design is modular in dt·sign. Expansion of the factory could be done by simply attaching new senions ofthe factory to the existing frame. The structure is actually a series of tetrahedrons and pyramids forming a truss, aiding in the case of the ship's expansion. 
The factory of the ship would usc 
EUIS~!';iEES TE~H~[]L[][jy 
lJEPT. 
.,:. MICI'--Aftt­
l'w-.IDicii"'MNioft 
DDMIII~YWHIU
•.,.,,,:JOD 
),....... 
,.,.... ,..... 

.... 
cr1eltt• 
,.,,...-u.,.., 
•l••uur•~•IOIIMIIIIIpnriJIIHI ,...,_ 

a photo electric power station to supply energy to a moon base as well as thc ship itself The moon base would usc this energy to power a mass driver that would propel dirt into space. This "moon dirt" would be put through a process called reduction to be transformed into aluminum. 
The dorm of the ship is a circular ring rotating at three revolutions per minute to simulate the earth's gravity. The ship's workers would work two week shifts consisting of 12 hour days, similar to the shifts taken by workers on oil rigs. At the end of the two week shift, the workers would return to earth for a rest period. 
There arc man)• advantages to constructing a factory in space in­stead of on earth, according to Molinelli. Through the availability of cncrgy, resources, and with the aid of wdghtlcssncss, the economics of the factory would bt• much better in space. In addition, aluminum could be produced without digging up the earth and without polluting the earth. Energy could eventually be produced in space at one-tenth of the cost of producing energy on the earth. 

u~~5 ~E ffl f?ffl~[]·f?~E~lT ~O~o 
~ALL RYRr.i RT 2:3 'i-5lGB HIR UETmLS. 
The aluminum produceJ in spacc could be uscJ to construct other space factories or even to produce space colonies. Excess aluminum could even be returned for usc on the earth. 
None of this plan is out of the reach of current technology, Molinelli noted. The biggest draw­back of the plan is that private in­dustry is discouraged from undertaking such a project since any profit taken from mining space must be shared with all nations. 
Though plans for the colonization of space, or cven f(>r the construc­tion of factories in space may seem far-fetched, the continued advance­ment of technology has made these ideas very real possibilities. Once one company Jccides to usc space as an aiJ in production, the pos­sibilities for using space arc virtually limitless. 
THE WORLD IS YOUR CAMPUS 
Gain a full semester's credits while you SAIL AROUND THE WORLD! 
Special Slide 
Presentation 


February 16, 1982 
Two World itineraries ore offered each academic year, sponsored by University of Pittsburgh. 

Spring voyage sails March 4, 1982 from Ft. Lauderdale -Spain. Greece, Egypt, Israel, Indio, Sri Lanka, Philippines, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Korea, Japan. 
Fall voyage sails Sept. 8, 1982 from Seattle · Japan, Korea. Taiwan, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Indio, Sri Lanka, Egypt, Israel, Greece, Spain. 
More than 60 university courses, with in-port and voyage-related emphasis. Faculty from University of Pittsburgh and other leading universities, augmented by visitipg area experts. 
Optional tours, including special tours into the People's Republic of Chino, available. 

Participation is open to qualified students from oil accredited colleges and universities. Semester at Sea admits students without regard to color. race or creed. The S.S. Universe is fully air-conditioned, 18,000 tons, registered in Liberia and built in America. 
FOR A FREE COLOR BROCHURE, WRITE: SEMESTER AT SEA, UCIS, UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH, FORBES QUADRANGLE, PITTSBURGH, PA 15260, OR CALL toll free (800} 85.4­0195 (in California call (714} 771-6590). 
Consumer debt fell s173 million in tkccmbcr. as Americans paid off more than they borrowed for the first time since July 1980, another recession period, the Ft.'dc:ral Reserve Board reported today. The big decline in buying on credit -ii1dud­ing an expected new drop in auto loans -was further cvidt·ncc that the current recession was worsening as 1981 ended. Earlin reports had shown sluggish salc:s, quickly t:tllng production and rapidly rising unemployment during that month. Buying on credit had been much stronger earlier in the: year, with big gains recorded from February through Sc:ptcmbn. And the tt>tal of outstanding install· mcnt debt at the end of the year-S 133.1 billion -was up 6.3 percent from lkccmbcr 1980. 
Major retailers ended a disappointing year yesterday, reporting mostly meager salc:s gains for January, rdlecting bitterly cold weather in much ofthc nation along with the: recession. January marked the: cnd of most retailers' Hscal year, a year bcginning with robust salc:s that wcrc later wcakc:ncd by recession and high un­cmplormcnt, r'-'sulting in moMiy modest gain~ for th'-' 12 nwnths. Analysts pr'-'dict'-'d salc:s would improve: little: bdorc tht· economy's '-'XP'-'Ctcd reovery this summn. January is normally a poor month for rt·tailc:rs, and last month's "still high interest rate lcvcb, cominut·d incrcascs in uncmploym'-'nt anJ g'-'n'-'raly sluggish cconomk activity 
all contributed to a lacklustn salc:s performance," said.Jdfrcy Fdnn, an analyst with .\1errilll.yndl, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Inc. 

Marketing Update 
"C k . . " 

0 e 1S tt ,is the new slogan dc:velopcJ by McCann-Erikson for Coka-Cola Inc Tonight. the client and agency estimate, 9'i million Americans will sec the Hrst of the television commercials that have engaged the talents ofscores ofamateurs anJ professionals for more than a year. That's if you consiller all of the painstaking consumer research to insure that Coke wouiJ receive aJvcrtising worth sinking more than SolO million into. And that sum docs not include the money bottlc:rs will be spenlling. 

Research .Update 

Cobalt and ferrous alloys arc two commercially 
produced mctals that arc frcqucntly usc:J in industry, t·spccially coal mining and processing. But with the continued usc ofthese alloys in the stepped-up production of energy from coal -induding its mining, crushing. liquefaction and gasification -the inllustry is t1nding problems with abrasive wear that breaks Jown the alloys. Research in ;\lotrc Dame's Department of :\1ettalurgy is attempting to determine why the metals break down. and how to improve them ti>r the coal industry's advantage of having alloys that will cost less yet be more durable. The problem is bdng studies by Dr. Thomas H. Kosel, who has alrcally received S 19 :'1. 900 in funding from the U.S. Department of Energy. 


The Observer Thursday, February 11, 1982 -page 6 
Rural American Women 



Director speaks on Appalachia 

By LESLIEANNE WADE 
News Staff 
Marie Cirillo, Regional Co­
Director for Rural American 
Women, discussed her life and work 
in Appalachia last night in Carroll 
Hall at Saint Mary's. 
This was the first in a series of 
lectures on "Christians and Justice" 
to be presented. Cirillo's topic was 
"The Role of Women in Rural 
Rebirth." 
Ms. Cirillo began by describing herself as "more of an activist than anything else." She has worked as a Rural Community Developer in Ap­palachia for the past fourteen years. This organization is committed to community development with an 
emphasis on the role ofwomen. 
Cerillo said,"Rural is living everyday with an awareness of your dependency on the land and the land's resources. The people ofrural communities truly know the impor­tance of relationship with the land. They use the land for food, shelter and fuel. They are forced to under­stand not only social relationships but social relationships in harmony 
LISBON, Portugal (AP) 

SENIORS 
- -----­ 
ASSOCIATE WITH US  

The HCAs is a·l-2 year postgraduate experiencestreSStng: 
• Service to olllEHs eSimple living ecommunallllestyle .Christian exploration 
Placements available in the United Stales; santiago. Chile; anct Nairobi, Kenya. 
with ecological relationships." 
Cirillo pointed out that a sig­nificant number of poor Americans inhabit rural America. She spoke of the contributions these people can make and emphasized that such people have a unique perspective on the world. "Rural poor have the ex­perience of having to destroy the 
land they love to bring in needed money. They work in coal fields and timberlands. They have a unique consciousness of the world because they've been forced to leave rural life and move to urban communities. They probably have a key to the future from seeing that." 
Cirillo describes her work in Ap­palachia as "catalystic." The women who are members in her groups needed only to be motivated and guided. Their strength came from within. 
A woman from Cirillo's Rural 
American group spoke of her own 
experience as a woman in Appalac­
hia. She said,"We want pride and we 
want dignity. l don't want to go on 
welfare. I love my mountain land but 
its so hard to earn a living." 
The Rural American Women's Group, under the guidance of \1arie Cirillo, utilizes the strengths, desires and talents of such women. One of the group's centers runs a craft store that promotes crafts made in Ap­palachia. Another runs a summer youth program that provides educa­tion and recreation for the children. At the same time, the women who staff the center recieve an educa­tion, a job and a new sense of them: selves. 

.\1s. Cirillo spoke of the unbelievable strength of the Ap­palachian women and their desire 10 work for their land, their families, and for their community. Lack of education and guidance previously hindered these desires. People like Cirillo have changed that. Cirillo said, "I have learned that in social justice you can't do alot to change the world ...You are lucky if you can change yourself." 
.\1arie Cirillo is working with the people. She is making changes in herself She is encouraging changes in the people. She is changinga small part of the world. 
At Madrid conference 



Haig warns allies about gas deal 
the face of what the United States considers Soviet instigation of im­position of martial law in Poland. 
The European involvement, espe­cially the financing, is considered vital to the Soviet project. The European nations maintain they need the gas to meet their future energy needs. 
Firms in West Germany, France and Italy are completing agreements to purchase gas when the pipeline from Siberia to Europe is completed in 1984. Other West European na­tions likely also will purchase Soviet gas. 

In addition, European banks nave arranged much of the financing and European firms will be involved in the construction. 
Haig said the administration has expressed "great concern that our West European partners not permit themselves to become overly de­pendent on eastern sources for natural gas or any energy project." 
He said the administration is preparing new energy alternatives for ·rhe 'Europeans to consider. He acknowledged that proposals sub­mitted previously, "were not at­tractive sufficiently." 

Spirit ofSolidarity stillstrong in Poland 
DEADLINE FOR DOMESTIC APPUeANTS: 


l I 
I 
Ask a Peace Corps volunteer why she teaches math and general science to high school students in Liberia, West Mrica...Ask another volunteer why he teaches biology and physics in the Pacific Islands. They'll probably say they want to help people, want to use their skills, travel, learn a new language or experience another culture. Ask them: 
... 

Register now at the Placement Bureau for Interview 

Feb. 23 & 24 
Secretary ofState Alexander M. Haig Jr. said yesterday that Western allies are in close agreement on condemn­ing Poland's martial law, but he voiced "great concern" over European plans to participate in a S25 billion gas pipeline project with 
the Soviet Union. 
Haig said the Reagan ad­ministrationstill hopes the Eur­ropeans will reduce or cancel their plans. 
He spoke at a news conference in 
Madrid, where he adressed the 35-· 
nation Conference on European 
Security and Cooperation which is 
reviewing the Helsinki accords 
promoting human rights. 
Haig said Tuesday that there could no longer be "business as usual" at the Madrid confer/ ence because of the Polish crisis. He said that Chief U.S. Delegate Ambassador .\1ax M. Kampelman would continue to discuss the Polish crisis to the ex­clusion of other conference busi­ness. 
Haig flew to Lisbon yesterday for talks with Portuguee leaders on the economy and continued U.S. use ofa base on the Azores islands. 
The Reagan administration has consistently opposed the natural gas project. But Haig's statement ap­peared to reflect the administra­tion's frustration that the Europeans have not abandoned the project in · 
GDANSK, Poland (AP) -A worker in the giant V.I. Lenin shipyard looked around, and then spoke quickly when asked about the future of Poland's free labor move­ment, suspended by martial aw Dec. 
13. 
"Solidarity was here, is here and will be here," he said. 
One after the other, workers standing and talking briefly in the bone-chilling winter cold of the shipyard where Solidarity was born echoed a similar theme. They want 

their independent trade union back. 
Eighteen months after the August 1980 strikes launched an agreement with the Communist authorities to establish the union, workers are saying they want the return of a trade organization independent of state and party control. 
Solidarity, the first such union n the Soviet bloc, was suspended by Poland's premier and party leader, Gen. Wojciech Jaruzelski, to halt a slide into what he called "anarchy and chaos." 
The workers apparently have decided to damp the fires of protest this winter, but one after the other, they have restated the message scrawled in chalk on a door in the nearby port ofGdynia: 
"Winter is Yours, Spring is Ours." 
"Trade unions in this country can­not be confined strictly to union at: fairs," one worker said. "They must play some political role, and ifthis is not possible, there will be another August." 
Many workers said they want to elect their own union leaders by their own means, and that Solidarity should be reborn as their trade uni­on, not a centralized, state-run body. 
"I'll never join another (state) trade union," one docker said in Gdynia, I'i miles northwest of this Baltic city that with the port ofSopot forms a tri-city area paralyzed by strikes during 1980. 
o'The Best of 
ffiGtdi GIGS '82' 
' This FridQy, Feb. 12 

A Variety Show 9:00pm 
La Fortune Ballroom 
Featuring: ffiQrk OQvise"Ciyde''• Dan Osborne 
•Rick StriebickeDQn Keusal &Friends 
• 
ffiQtt Feeny & Greg Sobkowski 

• 
ffiike OQiy & Tom KovQcevic 


• &mote.... ! 
...,.2 don~~ion to the ffiQrdi GtQS ~~Qrity C~es1 

Thursday, February 11, 1982 -page 7
Editorials 
Can Israel survive Begin? 
The British historian Alistair Horne. whose work has brought him great n:nown, ha~ for many years publicly and privately argued the case for lsrad. Moreover his sym­pathy for Israel crystallized not­withstanding the personal tug of his own experiences. As a young officer in the Coldstream Guards he was a~­sign.:d to duty in Palt:stine and there two of his 19-year-old subor­dinates wert: ambushed and hanged hy terrorists of the lrgun, which or­ganization was at the time headed hy Mr. Begin himself. 
''increasingly he 
fits the mold ofthe Zionist impelled by Biblical appetites ' ' 
It is important in passing to re­
record that Mr. Begin's activities 
were specifically condemned hy the 
Israeli leadership, so that it becomes 
less easy to say, as Jesse Jackson likes to do, that Israel has no right to criticize the terrorism of the PLO given" Israel's" history. It wasn't Israel's history, but the present dan­ger is that Israel's history and Begin's fanaticism may merge. 
This point, made by Mr. Horne, threatens to infect the basis of Is­rael's suport, which has all along been one part geopolitical and nine parts moral. The essence of the Is­raeli case has always been the right of a people to a homeland, sanctified in the case of the Jews by tradition and by the spec·ial ties the Jewish people have felt for Jausalcm. 
But the right of a people to a homeland is, at root, impartial. The Pakstinians arc also entitled to a home. It wa~ the purpose of the Camp David meetings to build on the great initiative of President Sadat, who proffen:d reconciliation with Is­rael. One chapter of that initiative is scheduled to close successfully when Israel n:turns the balance of the Sinai to Egypt. But the uncharted second chapter greatly threatens the in­itiative of Sadat in 1978, which looked not only to the repatriation of its conquered tcrritories, but to the settlement of Pakstinian hopes. 
Now although PLO leader Arafat is thoroughly objectionable, and al­though the Palestine National Coun-· cil persists in declining to accept the existence of Israel. supporters of Is­rael arc incn:asingly embarrassed by the failure of the Begin government to articulate terms on the basis of which something on the order of a homeland might be established. The anti -Israel crowd has all along in­sisted that .VIr. Begin never had any intention to give up the West Bank or the Gaza Strip, that he would come up with excuse after excuse for not doing so. And that in the meantime he would encourage an increase in the settlements in the area. And now the critics arc in a position to add that the time may come when Begin will do to the West Bank what he did two months ago to the Golan Heights : simply annex the area. 
Now, intransigence in the matter of the security of the state is one thing. If it disguises a form of ag­grandizemnt, it is something else again. Horne's point, and I agree with it, is that Begin is diminishingly 
rc·tre<Jt by the Snvicr <Jrmy of territory

plausibk as someone who seeks Is­
Williiun Buckley
occupied during the world war. But

raeli security within the old frontiers. 
the terms wen: tough: Austria would

Increasingly he fits the mold of the 
remain neutral. The armed forces of

Zionist impelled by biblical appetites 
Austria would be restricted to what On the Right
to settle as a part of Israel the area 
was needed to police the country. Al­

once known as Samaria. And the 
though Austria is for obvious reasons

problem for Israt:l--recognized as a 
emotionally attached to NATO rather laws, and these laws should grant the 
problem hy many Israeli leaders and 
than to War~aw, in fact it has same rights to Israelis living in 
sympathizers--is to distinguish be­
presented no threat to Russian Palestine as the Israelis grant the 
tween Begin. who is only a single 
satellites. Palestinians living in Israel. Only a
political figure however seized heap­
gesture hy B~gin in the direction of 
pears to be by hi~ aftlatus. and the 
A Palestinian state without the such an agreement would repristinatc 
state of lsral!l. It is their ambition 
right to an armed force would not th.: enthusiasm SUl'h as Alistair 
that the latter should survive the for­
come into being as an emasculate. Horn~ and others have felt for so mer. The Palestinians would simply have many years for Israel. The present to accept the humiliation of having cnursc is deeply dangerous. Imagine
What's needed'? Surely the pn:ce­
no army or air force, or otha poten­an Israel in which Teddy Kollek nf
dent of Austria in 1955 is useful. tial that might threaten Israel. But in Jerusalem wen: president and The Austrian Peace Treaty other respects, such a state would Shimon Peres prim.: minister. On~ resulted in the single voluntary have sovereignty to make its own can dream. 
·-~-­~--:~~:;;. .]' -.--....-=.-· ~--.-iON])'v~ ,---.. -=~lJ~111DI\
---mftnlli±~__:_ 
1 c----· A?F\.<1' 

1it¥ -~~--~~· -'~-_j, ;,.__--·.::"'1!1..1..J,;JJ'I.,.. ----. ~~~ 
~.....:::::-....= -~­

~JJ'A A '-1. •...r. ......~ , ~ . ----'.ID ~,Q-'-:'y:
l .. ll-­
'How 'DYA ~IKf n.IAT? wF. usw To Bui"D L.~MONS, NON WE SEu.. APPl.ES , 

How do I love thee • • • • 
"Tht• most touching Valentine you can give is a Georgelle Klinger fa­cial.'' -Ad in The Chicago Tribune 
How do /love thee? Let me count the wavs... '' -Elizabeth Barrett Brown­ing 
Wh.:n you think about it, 
Valt:ntin.:'s Day is not a had idea. 
The timing is good -February is an 
pr.:tty tedious month, with only 
Groundhog's Day and Washington's 
Birthday for holiday action, · so 
Valt:ntine's Day fits right in. And the 
philosophy is faultless. One day a 
year set aside to tell everyone how 
much we love them. 
Telling someone you love them is a pretty good idea. The only problem is that most of us arc fairly adept at avoiding doing so. We have all sorts of excuses such as" I don1t want him to get the wrong idea ... " Or, if we do follow through. we get off the hook with an·· Aw, you know what I 
mean. 
It'~ not easy to tt:ll someon.: exact­ly how you feel about them. The first problem is that you have to know how it is you do feel. No one likes to remove the rose-colored-glasses, to­weigh the good against the bad, to question the comfortable routine. Who knows if there will be anything even remotely resembling what you 
thought was there? 
finally "gotten in touch with your 
feelings," then by God, you have a 
right to protect them. . 
Enter the advertising communtty, ready to help facilitate riskless con~­munication, with yet another bene! II of the frec-c.:nterprise system. It is no longer necessary to sound the depths 
''... the young man she once called ''Warren Beatty, only smarter, ''was actually an average-looking chemical engineer ... ' ' 
There has b.:en many a young lady whl;, the distorting kindness of love ruthlessly subsiding, suddenly realized that the young man she once called "Warr.:n Beatty, only smar­ter,'' was actually an average­looking chemical engineer from Connecticut with absolutely nothing interesting to say. Though we wish it wouldn't he, low is often blind on Vai.:ntine's Day. Sn. you have tn b.: 
•ar.:l u1. 11. Ilk<: most utncr products uf the ":'vle-gem:ratiun." ynu have 
of your emotional being and th~n struggle to find th t e right words. Rather, all you need do is choose which guise being marketed (hopeless romantic? special friend?) you wish to don: As a result, Valentine's Day has become a much 
less personal. and more emotionally sak experience. 
Then: was a tun~ when loved ones wrote: sonn.:ts and !etta~ to try to cxpr~ss th.:msclves. Those embarassing confessions have been replaccd by the ·safer' greeting card. 
Jenny Pitts
The limitless variety of cards allows one to assume the position of sincere 
Anthony Walton 
suitor, demure sweetheart, devoted spouse. or jogging pal. For hapless. shy types with ·secret' crushes there arc Ziggy valentines. For the ob­noxiously arrogant (and proud of it) there are Gwjield valentine~. For the creative types thcre arc the Susan Polis Schutz ·match your own sensitive love, emotion and wilder­ness (beach or mountain) scene' valentine. 
It is amusing to wat<.:h people select a card, browsing through card after card until lhey find one whose verse best approximates their senti­
ments, i.c. "Shall I compare thee to a summer's day?" and for those less subtle souls, ··My place or yours?'' 
But, greeting cards arc no longer the vnlr safe way to go. It should not surpri;c anyone to sec how adver­tisers try to convince us that tellmg someone you low them mean~ shmring them you love them which translates: Buy! Then:' s a radio ad where a d.:ep-voic.:d. earnestly "trust-me" typo: announcer somb<.:r­ly informs us that "Nothing can express your love like a heart-shaped diamond pendant set in 14 karat yel­low gold". Makes sen~.:. At $1495 who ll'ouldn't kn<lW th.:y were loved? And, since diamonds arc forever, the giv.:r should. theordically, never have to say (or show)" I love you" again. 

For those conc·crned with the hi.!alth and welfare of the beloved, there arc offerings such as "The Ayds 90-day Reducing Plan Valentine Love Box." Or, for dis­creetly lecherous ICmalcs. there arc the increasingly popular 'love coupons,' which entitle the bearer to various physical indulgences upon presentation. 
These are only a few examples of the "How do I love thee?'' trade, circa 1982. That'swhat'sgrcatahout Valentine·~ Day; you cun avoid saying what you mean. even if you mean it. 


Editorial Board 
Edill)r-in·Chief.......... ..... John McGrath 

Founded November 3, 1966 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not n~essarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news 1~ ~eport­ed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editor~als represent the opm10~ of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opimons and letters are th.e v1ews of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the co~mumty, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, 15 encounged. 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EXf!CUti~ News Editor....................... Kdli Flint Sports Editor.............................. Skip Ucsjardin Neuis Editor .............................David Rickabaugh Photo Editor ........................................)ohn Macor S.'WC Executit'l! Editor........... ~ary Agn~:s Care) Editorials Editor.......................Anthony Walton !lMC News Editor......................Cathy Domanico Features t.ittor ......................:.~Gregory Swiercz 
Department Managers 

Business Manager ............... ......... Rich ,Coppola Production Manager................... Michael Monk Controller ............................... .............joe Multlur Circulation Manager .............Tom MacLenna11 Aduertising Manager.......................Chris Owen .~),stems Manager ........................... Bruce Oakley 
~~()f1tS:l:):,..:=i=e~~~=S=============================T=h=ur=sd=~='=Fe=b=rJ~a=ry=l=l,=l=9=82===p=ag=e=s
Br The Observer and The Associated Press The $95 balance for those interested in going on the Pete Agostino came through in the clutch to give the Student Union's Colorado ski trip is due Friday. The money can be 
• • . Irish 
Notre Dame wrestling team a 27-27 tie against Westen Michigan in a brought to the Student Union Ticket Office. The final room list is 
triangular meet at the ACC Pit last night. Agostino defeated the now posted outside the Student Union oftice. Those with questions Bronco's Dennis Leedy 10-6 in the 150-pound division to clinch the or problems can call Kevin at 239-7605. -The Observer tie. The Irish pounded Soutwestern Michigan 54-6 in their other 
continuedfrom page 9 
match. Brian Erard recorded two pins at I 58-pounds to lead the Notre Dame attack. Agostino was the only other Irish double­Cheerleader tyouts for rhe 1982-83 Notre Dame 
three events, as the Irish knocked off winner. -The Observer Cheerleading Squad will be held next month. Preparations should 
Wayne State, 62-51. Three of the begin soon for prospective candidates. First cuts will be made 
men combined to win individual Thursday, March 25 at 6:30p.m. in the ACC Pit. Interviews will be 
events as well as contribute to a win­Cross-country skiingis easy to learn. The office of held the following Wednesday, March 31, at 6:30 in the Student Ac­
ning relay. Non-Varsity Athletics is sponsoring a learn-to-ski weekend for Notre tivitit.·s Office. Final selections will be made Friday, April 2, at 6:30 
Casey, the team co-captain, came Dame and Saint Mary's students. For details, call 239-5100. -The p,m, in the ACC Pit. -The Observer 
within seven-tenths of a second of breaking his team record in the 200­yard butterfly, with a winning time of I:58.154. Casey was also a mem­
Observer 
The Student Unioncontinues to sponsor ski trips to ber of the 400-yard medley relay

Jnterhall hockeycontinues tonight at the ACC. In the Swiss Valley every Saturday night during the winter months. Busses 
team that opened the meet with a
first game, St. Ed's faces off against Fisher. In the second conte~t. depart from the Main Circle at 5 p.m. and return at I 1 p.m. Bus victory.
Morrissey will play Dillon. -The Observer tickets can be purchased in advance from the Student Union for S2.SO, or on the bus itself for S3.00. Also, discounted lift tickets and 
The Irish won seven of the I I ski rental are available--The Observer 
swimming events, with Wayne State 
'-----------------------------------------------------------------_Jsweeping the two diving events. 
The Observer will accept class1f1eds Mon­day through Friday. 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However, classif1eds to appear 1n the next 1ssue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid, 
e1ther in person or through the mail.
Classifieds 
NOTICES 

SHOW YOUR LADY YOU CARE WITH A BOUQUET OF FLOWERS DELIVERED EVERY WEDNESDAY FOR 4 WEEKS. WEDNESDAY'S FLOWERS. 289-1211. VALENTINES DAY IS CLOSE BY. 
Professional Typ1ng Serv1ce For Notre Dame/St. Marys Students 24 hour serv1ce $.75-$1.00 per page. Call Randy (239-7735) 
OVERSEAS JOBS--Summer/year round. Europe. S. Amer.. Australia, As1a. All fields. $500-$1200 monthly. Sightsee­ing. Free 1nfo. Wnte IJC. BBox 52-IN4, Corona Del Mar. CA 92625. 
Support your local neighborhood J. V. hockey player. Pract1ce at 7:15 a.m. every morning. All players should attend. 
JELLY ROLL LIVES, SATURDAY, NAZZ,9PM. 
DID YOU CALL THE AIRLINES FOR YOUR SPRING BREAK RESERVA­TIONS? PICK UP YOUR TICKET AT 1ST SOURCE TRAVEL. SAINT MARY'S-­5606 ND--7080 
Want to learn French? French tutor available, all levels. Very reasonable. Call 287-0233. 
NEED A GOOD HAIRCUT? CALL MICHOLE TAT 7951 $4 GUYS AND $6 GIRLS 
NEED RIDE TO CHICAGO THIS WEEKEND. CAN LEAVE ANYTIME THURS OR FRIDAY. PLEASE HELP. ROSE3750. 
ATTENTION ST. LOUIS CLUB: ELEC­TION OF OFFICERS will happen at the beg1nnmg of March. Defmitely consider runmng-the club needs your talents!!! More details will come later. 
THE SOCIETY FOR CREATIVE ANACHRONISM IS COMING TO CAMPUS SOON Ill 
Look1ng for a truly portable. yet powerful. personal computer? See THE os­BORNE 1. 64K. dual 1OOK disk dnves. complete sonware package. $1795. FOURWAY COMPUTER PRODUCTS (Across from North Village Mall). 277· 7720 
Need dnve for 1979 pickup (automatiC) to Stamford, CT area. Will pay $50 plus gas. If interested, call Mrs. Walters. 259-8015. 
Needed: Teachers for SMC Free Univer­sity In introductory greek, con versational Russian, jazzercize, auto mechanics or any other inter-esting subject. Qualified students and ffaculty welcome. Call Ell­lean at 284-4602. 
PERSONAL AND PROFESSIONAL BUSINESS COMPUTER DEMONSTRA­TION. FRIDAY. FEBRUARY 12. 10:00 
A.M. TO 2:00 P M. ROOM 249 O'SHAUGHNESSY. Fourway Computer Products. 277-7720 
Come and hear panel1sts and d1scuss DIVORCE AND THE CATHOLIC. Wed· nesday. Feb. 17 at 6:30p.m. m the Samt Mary's Clubhouse. 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST: GOLD & PEARL FLOWER CHARM FROM A NECKLACE. Lost be­tween Farley and the Law School. If found. please call Phyllis--6844. REWARD. 
LOST 1PR. XL DARK BLUE SKI GLOVES IN EG. AUD. MONDAY NIGHT PLEASE CALL SEAN 1416 
LOST: Ti-55 calculator, e1ther 1n 124 Cus­hing auditonum or 117 Haggar aud1tonum on Feb. 5. If found please contact Dan al 3378. 
LOST: In 109 O'Shagl Blue bookbag w/ all my notes and booksl!l!l! Please whoever picked 1t up, get 1n touch w1th Steve Burkart. Tel. x 3121 
LOST: one off-white ladles hat, at Jan. 31 
Farley Mass. If found please contact Kelli 
at 283·6739. 
LOST: Lad1es gold watch, Fnday aner­noon. lnscnpt1on on back of watch. If found. please contact DENISE at 283­6739. 
LOST: Cas1o FX-8000 calculator some­where 1n Eg. Aud or computer bU1Id1ng or 1ce nnk. I need it for my tests!! If found. please call Dominic at X1360. 
I LOST MY I.D. CARD SOMEWHERE BETWEEN SOUTH DINING HALL AND WASHINGTON HALL. IF YOU FOUND IT, PLEASE RETURN IT ASAP!!!I! (MICHOLE MADDEN 329 LYONS x79511 THANKS!! 
LOST: Pair of VUARNET sungLasses 
(you llnow, tbose rldlculous-/oolltng sbudes). PleasegtveKen Kesey a qutcll caUat283-3210 ifyou haveanyl'lforma­llon regardingthem. REWARD deftnUely 
negotiable I Tbanx. 
LOST: A LIGHT BLUE BINDER CONTAINING A LIGHT GREEN 5­SUBJECT NOTEBOOK -THESE ARE ALL THE NOTES I HAVE FOR THE SEMESTER. AND I REALLY NEED THEM. SO IF YOU FIND THEM, PLEASE CALL JOE AT x1584. REWARD. 
LOST: last thursday. brown tinted. gold 
framed eye glasses. If found please call 
x7946. 
FOUND: one hat. very n1ce. at the Holy 
Cross hemous hat and t1e party on Satur­
day mght. Call3176 to IDENTIFY. 
Found: LadleS gold watch approx 2 
weeks ago 1n the ACC Locker room. Call 
Jamce at 1327 to cla1m. 
Lost. Blue enamel cloisonne bracelet Weds. morn1ng 1n the Lib. Aud. Lobby area Deep sentimental value. If found. please call Kath1 at 1327. 
FOR RENT 
Summer Sublettors Wanted! 2 bdrm apt 
1n Hickory Village If 1nter-ested, call 
Carol or Michele at 272-9603. 
Male -will share 3 bedrm. home 1n n1ce 
neighborhood 150 per month. ph. 289­
1908 or 272-41 09 • 
.___w_A_NT_Eo_____.l 
Need nde to Houston Texas. lor spnng 
break. If you are headed 1n that direCtion 
please call T1mo at 1782. 
WANTED: JAZZ PIANO AF­
FICIONADOS. THE NAZZ., SATURDAY, 
9PM. 
NEED A RIDE TO DAYTON for the 
weekend of Feb. t 2-14. Please call Mary 
Ann x5475 (SMC). 
WE need 1 0 people who want to make $1.000 extra ·1ncome part-t1me. Onenta­tion Will be at Park Jefferson French Quar· ter on Feb. t tth at 7 PM For d1rect1ons please call between 3:00 and 5:00 on 
Wed, Feb t Oth 232-6587 or 256-5 7 41. 
TYPING 28 years as a secretary Excel­
lent typist--ret~red. $1.00 per page. Call 
Phyllis '59·2501. 
RIDERS NEEDED TO MARDI GRAS IN 
NEW ORLEANS. Call Harpo 8928. 

NEED RIDE TO CLEVELAND THIS WEEKEND. CALL RICH 232-1824. 
AUSTIN. TEXAS area IS where I need a nde to for break most w1lhng to share ex­penses & dnv1ng. Call 1791. 
I NEED A RIDE TO MIAMI OR FT. LAUDERDALE, FLA FOR SPRING BREAK CALL MIKE 3242 
$$ NEED $$ FOR SPRING BREAK? SIGN UP TO WORK JUNIOR PARENT'S WEEKEND-FEB. 20TH AND/OR FEB. 21ST. NEED FIRM COMMITMENT­
. CALL 277-7654 (COLLEEN) OR 283· 3464 (MICHELE) FOR FURTHER DETAILS 
Need a nde to Houston. Spnng Break. Call1782. ask for T1m. 
Need 2 G.A. Tickets for N.C. State!l Call Ann 8067 
FOR SALE 
USED & OUT-PRINT BOOKS bought. sold. searched. ERASMUS BOOKS. lues-Sunday, 12-6. 1027 E. Wayne (One block south of Eddy-Jefferson Intersec­tion.) 
LOFT.Good Cond1t1on.ldeal 1n Keen/Stan. ONLY $95,Call272-2578 
TICKETS 

WANTED: 2 TO 4 GA TICKETS FOR DE PAUL GAME. CALL KAREN, 284-5127. 
. I NEED 2 DE PAUL GAS CALL DAVE AT3056 
NEED ONE G.A TICKET FOR NORTH CAROLINA STATE. CALL MIKE 1812. 
WANTto BUY. 4 GA NORTH CAROLINA STATE t1x X8227 
NEED 2 GAS FOR N.C. PRICE NO PROBLEM. X1040. 
Help!! If I don·t come up w1th 2 DePaul GA·s for my folks, I can kiss the tu1t1on checks goodbye! Call Bob at 1647 and keep me 1n school. 
Need TWO DePaul GA T1ckets Please Call TIM at 1377 
I NEED TWO TICKETS FOR THE DEPAUL GAME!!! WILL PAY BIG BUCKS. CALL MATT AT 232-2578. 
1 PERSONALS 
'------...,........--.....J 
WINDSURFER There over 300 dealers 
.and 50 cert1f1ed Inter-nat1onal Windsurfer Sa1lmg Schools 1n North Amenca. One soon to be appeaannhg here at Notre Dame Stay tuned 
LOVE MEANS NEVER HAVING TO SAY YOU BLEW IT Order your Valentlne·s Day Balloons. We'll del1ver a bunch, 2 red and 1 wh1te. to your fnends. lovers. and 
enem1es on campus. Sat Feb. 13th. Only $1.25! Order them in all d1mng halls Tues. Feb. 9th through Fn Feb. 12th or 1n LeMans Lobby HURRY. BEFORE THEY'RE GONE" 
Rome m1ght have fallen tn a day, ~tad tt not been for the LOW 
JAZ:Z. PIANO AT THE NAZZ, SATUR­DAY 9 PM. 
BILL EVANS l.IVES AT THE NAZZ. SATURD.A Y 9PM 
TOMMY FLANAGAN LIVES. AT THE NAZZ. 9F'-1 SATURDAY. 
HOAGY CARMICHAEL LIVES AT THE NAZZ.. SATURDAY, 9PM. 
THE FINEST IN SOLO JAZZ PIANO. FROM MOSE ALLISON TO DENNY ZEITLIN. PAUL KOSIDOWSKI PLAYS THE FINEST. SATURDAY 9 PM. 
KEITH JARRETT IS ALIVE AND WELL AND PERFORMING IN SOUTH BEND. THE NAZZ, SATURDAY, 9 PM. 
THE WSND BIRTHDAY BONANZA BEGINS!!! L1sten to AM 64's SECRET SCRAMBLE SONG-identify the art1sts and titles. and YOU could win $1 00 in your choice of albums! · 
WSND-AM 64--celebratmg 35 years of servtng the Notre Dame community wtth the best tn news, sports and rock music. 
Bruce Konstant, comedian extraor­dmaire, Will be pertorm1ng this Thursday. Feb. 11, at The G1pper Lounge, Holiday Inn. The show begms at 11 p.m. Don't 
mtSSII. 
Keyboard player 1s desperately ne•ded for a senous party band Must be senous and somewhat expene11ced call Dan 8694 or Ralph 6871. 
Ne~d riders to MSU (East Lans1ng area) Leav1ng Fnday (2/12) at 3 Returmng Sun­day about same t1me. Call Monica 41­5802 
Smoke one on a WINDSURFER You 
know ttl 
..............., .. 
Dr. Bnan D.O.: With Valentme season ap­
proaching, my heart palpitations are 
becom1ng uncontrollable. Your med1cal 
attentton IS severely needed. Prescnptton 
No. 163: 2 tbls of Love Potion 4 times daily 
should do the trick! Please be my 
Valenttne! 
Your Southern Belle 
Ken. Be my valenttne ! Love. M1ke 
Happy Birthday JOAN QUINLAN! What a waste of a 21 ID. Love. 721 and the girl you sleep w1th. 
CONNECTICUT CLUB Happy Hour. Fn. Feb. 12-Alumn1 Hall Party Room 
LOTTERY TOMORROW NIGHT FOR TICKETS TO MORRISON SCHWARTZER CONCERT 
Lost. One compassionate. understand­Ing, and lov1ng boytnend answenng to the name of Ch1p. Will you come home? Owner th1s t1me prom1ses not to abuse 
you. 
Love. 
The Sex-starved wench. 
MORRISON SCHWARTZER IS COM­ING 
GRINGO-I know that holidays generally 
slip your m1nd. so I thought I'd rem1nd you rhar Valentines Day IS this Sunday Please be mtne 
Love. Beth 
SUMMER PROGRAMS: Ireland, Scot­land, London and Paris-May 1&-June 17 Paris, Germany, Switzerland and Rome-June 15-July 14. Courses available in history, business and economics, sociology, theatre, philosophy and Italian. Cell Professor 
A.R. Black at SMC, ;:."-A948 or at home, 272-3726. 
ANACHRONISM: something that is outof place with respect to time. A Lady wearing both a henin ana a wristwatch 1s an anachromsm. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAV .ANN f10M1\NO! 
Mrs Suerby, 
1/VtJ Ci:.ln negotiate your grautude. 
Looking tor a truly portable. yet powerful personal computer? See The Osborne 1. 64K. dual tOOK disk dnves. plus $1400 worth of sonware. all tor $1795. FOUR­WAY COMPUTER PRODUCTS (Across from North Village Mall). 277-7720. 
Chnstopher-
You are cordially 1nv1ted to attend Saturday mghts performance. In fact, I have a date all lined up for you. I can't tell you her name -you understand. See you Saturday. 
Elizabeth 
LOST: Texas Instruments Tl-55 calculator 1n the eng1neenng aud1tonum dunng last semesters finals. My name is scratched 1n onlhe back. Please return. John x8641 
PERSONAL, PROFESSIONAL AND BUSINESS COMPUTER DEMONSTRA· TION FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12. 10:00 
A.M TO 2:00 PM. ROOM 249 O'SHAUGHNESSY. Fourway Computer Products, Inc. 277-7720. 
SHERRY SULLiVAN: I CAN'T GO ON WITHOUT YOU ANY LONGER. I LOVE YOU 
COME AND DISCUSS: DIVORCE AND THE CATHOLIC WEDNESDAY, FEB. 17 AT 6:30 PM. IN THE SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE CLUBHOUSE. 
To the unpossessable Ms. Wh1ps. When are we go1ng to listen to slow mus1c aga1n? the bleedmg heart liberal. 
P.S. Your body may not be a 10. but 1t 1sa nice 9.9999. 
P.S.S. Bnng your bycicle cha1n. 
Hjalmaaaar!! Get those &/x! rabbits out of my kitchen!llll 
Dear Krlstl: 
I LOVE YOU I CAN'T UVE WITHOUT YOU 
"lay bsck and rest your weary mind I will stay right here beside you •.• I swear to you Our time has just begun ••." 
LDve, Randall 
Timo, 
Thanks for gett1ng in touch with my pleasure center. You realize that now you'll have to do it agam. I could do up a couple. Won't see you Friday, I'm heading south for the weekend. Be back 
Sunday. Chns 
TO THE GUYS IN 5C: YES. EVEN MON­DAYS CAN BE TOLERABLE .. THANKS FOR BEING SO SUPER· COOL! THE SHEEP 
AND ON THE 8TH DAY GOD SAID: AND LET THERE BE SHEEP . 
SHEEP SHEEP SHEEP SHEEP SHEEP SHEEP SHEEP SHEEP SHEEP SHEEP SHEE SHEEEP SHEEEEEEEEP BAA BAA 
S.Bob Bo1e 
DILLON BIG RED" P.O.E.T.S. CLUB HAPPY HOUR. 5·7:30 BEFORE HOOPS MIXED DRINK SPECIAL 
Pat, if there were a home football game today 1mag1ne this on the back of a plane: HAPPY BIRTHDAY SNUGGLY BUNNY 
uwocuwocuwocuwoc 
Dave "TOY" Martin for UTOC!!! 
Today 15 Jill Counts 21st birthday. Because she IS go1ng to Flonda for Spnng Break she won"t be tak1ng Dave up on hiS offer Ne11her 15 Patty Perry. Oh well, he tned 
Haakun-A wornan can I JUSt throw herself away. car she? 
Berta Hey MOON WET: Happy V-Day, You Guy. You!! 

The Best Little Whorehouse In Oslo 
Hfalmar-Chlns are worn high this year." Oscar Wilde 
Boo Boo's tired. weary and lonely. 
Excuse me. IS your name Dick? My cold gets worse as the weekend draws near.(lf its mono, I can't blame you.) Besides. I study on Friday nights. 
Muff 
To the DAYS INN PARTIERS Thanks for making my b-day perfect. PK and Dorsk­You're the best CB ~ you're a wench Wench -Couldn't have done 1t Without you. The whole weekend was great. 
Love, The Demps 
CAD Sure. more champagne! Who are you? M 
Patty, Welcome back (lor a week) So glad to have you here. Hope we can fmd some­thing fun for you to do here. I mean we know that we can't compare to your wild Pittsbugh life. Maybe yoq can get some peanut butter thrown at you by McGrath or Ryan will pick you up. Heaven know what other people will want to do to you. (Especially guys g01ng to Utah!) 
Love, your "roommates .. 
Suzanne, Welcome to the ranks. It you want to survive at this place now, you'll have to come to me for some survival hints hke how to make tun of Prod or return abuse that is hurled at you by all the strange beings here. Congratulations and Good Luck Mon1ca 
ATTENTION SENIORS: Only two more days to ASSOCIATE With us! Holy Cross Assoc1ates-Applicat1on deadline Fnday, February 12. For ~nformallon. contact VOLUNTEER SERVICES. 
HeyKsthyK. Happy Valentine's Day. EnJOY your skiing. I will be talking to you soon. 
AI 
Hey John B .. What s1ze bowl d1d they use on your head?!? 
S1gned, Everybody 
Do you know what NOTREDAME needs? A VALENTINE'S EVE PARTY This Saturday mght. at 9:00pm. thhiS g1gant1c blow-out Will beg1n. All you need to do IS find out where IT Will take place. L1sten around campus for more 1nfo 
Get a clue. 
VALENTINE'S EVE BLOW-OUT AWESOME B.T.O.A. 
Hey B P GirlS, Long t1me no see! What's up? Are you go1ng to the Valentine's Eve Party? Hope to see _you there! 
Hey John B. We were go1ng to hang you for hang1ng up the phone but we couldn I hnd what we were going to hang you by. UMOC. 
P S.B P COME BY AND SAY HI! 
The Observer -Sports Thursday, February 11, 1982 page 9 

.War)' DiStanislao's ll'omen have served notice to tbe lJasketfJttll ll'orld that the)''vearrived. ami DiStanislao u•as recogntzedforber part. See stor)' on page 12.(Photo IJJ'}ohn .Wacor) 
JUNIOR PARENTS Weekend Package 

nasts lost last weekend to School Craft College in Detroit, Michigan hy tht· score of 1.21.3'; to II S.2. Club Pn:sidt·nt Brian .\1cl.aughlin. howt·ver. is more pleased with the progress of the young squad than anything else. "This is the youngest team we have had in my four years, hut it is also the best. It's just going to he a matter of gaining more ex­plTience from the meets." The team was led by Ed Barret .tnd Luis DeLeon who both put in t1rst-place pt·rformances in their events. Barret had a score of 6.6<; in winning tht· 
high-bar competition while DeLeon had the same score in winning the pummel horse. Barret also scored a !>econd-place tlnish in vaulting with a score of H.O. :\1cLaughlin was third in vaulting with a 7.9'; score. .\1d.aughlin. who placed timrth out a score of 5.9. The most pleasant in scores of9.0 in the vault, 8.3 in the surprise was turned in by freshman tloor excerdse, 7.7 on the balance Tom Treat who in his tlrst gymnastic beam, and 6.8 on the parrallcl bars. competition ever tlnished in second The squad will compete this Satur­place in the tloor excerdse. Be-day at the University of Miami in tween nine and I l people competed Ohio. 
Irish switnrners travel,· lookfortnore tvins 
The Notre Dame swim team takes to the road this weekend for back-to­hack meets against teams in New York. l:'riday, the Irish will take on St. John's, then Saturday must tun around and swim against Fordham. 
Last wet·kend, the Irish men's 

...Recruits 
continuedfrom page 12 
lineman run!> slower than a S.O forty. 
"We were shooting for kids that t:an run. That'~ almost all fi>othall is anymore. Ifyou look at the freshman wc: brought in last year, you'llnotke tht·y can all run well." 
Again. Notre Dame brought in players that excdlcd academically as well as athletically. Parad<> lineman Tony Furjanic reported : owns a pt·rfcct 4.0 index, and Fau 1 said 17 ofthe .2-I signees carry ove1 .1 
3.4 g.p.a. "We filkd in the gap!> left by last year's seniors, and tfiey're again a quality dass ofpeople." 
Faust cited defensive back Dave McGufli:y (Carlisle. Kentucky) as this year's sleeper. He'd been over­looked by a lot of schools, until Notre Dame took an interest. 
"Once we found him. Alabama and a lot ofother people started after him. He's a gem in the rough, just un­believably talented. He: called and" thankl·d me for believing in him and hav)ng faith in him. His st·hool's so excited for him. they retired his • number when he signed with us." 

Celebtate ffiatdi Gtas '8211! 
Sponsor a ·mARATHONER for $3 and that will get you into the PUBLIC DANCE Sat. Feb. 13 9:00-1 :00 
Chicago Band: GRINNIN' WHIPPET New Orleans -style food 

. ,, 
Buying a sponsorship also makes you eligible for a trip to New Orleans during Mardi Gras and for lots of other prizes: watches, dinners -for-two, appliances. 
team continued its winning ways, knocking off rivals Wayne State: and Toledo in anothe set of hack-to-hack meets on the road. 
Friday, Don Casey. Gary Severyn and Mike Shepardson were each double winnc:rs, and AI Harding won 
See IRISH, page 8 


following: *MOTEL ROOM *DINNER AT THE ICE HOUSE 

*MOVIE PASSES *COCKTAILS IN THE VICTORIAN LOUNGE *CHAMPAGNE BRUNCH 
NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION's 
ANNIJAL 
SPRING BREAKIN DAYTONA BEACH 
MARCH 12 · 11, 1982 
AtTIIIIgnttnls 6y 
ECHO TRAVEl, INC. 
MCI52S71F 
SIX PER ROOM (~ DOUBLE BEDS)
$J97 
FOUR PER ROOM (~DOUBLE BEDS) 'Guaranteed k.itchenel(e
$209 
or occ:anfroDI avaiiO&blc at ~mall a<.lditional.charge. 
$50 Deposit due Feb. 15 Full payment due Feb. 22 
Limitedspace available 
TRIP INaUDES 

· Round trip motor cou·h tranS(lOnation VIa modem htghway coa,·he~ 10 Daytona Beach. Flurida leaving Friday, Mart-h ll, arriving the following day. The return trip depans the followinll Saturday arrivin11 home !Iunday. 
· Seven nighb accommodalion~ at the bcauliful and exciling Plaza HOld of Daytona Beach. l.ocalcd al 600 Nonh A!lanuc Ave. it is !he mo!tl demanded hotel on !he slrip al th.at time. 
• 
A !ruly great schedule of activilics tncludinll our f~mou~ pool d«k parties and belly flop contest. · Oplional excursions available 10 Disney World and ~eral other attractions. · Numerous bar and restaurant discounts arranged in Daytona Beach for you. 

· The services of full lime travel rcprcsc:Diatives 10 insure a !rouble-free trip. 

• 
All taxes and gratuities. 



OUR TRIPS AREALWAYS THE BESTDEAL AND THE BEST TIME The Plaza Horel,locatcd right in the middle ollhc llrip, illdefinitelylhc place to bedw1118 spring break. Ask anyone who lw been to Daytona. The horcllw a pool, bill panydeck. rcstauranl, four bars, color1V, air conditioned rooms and plcmyolactlvillca. PICtures arr availablewhen:}UIIign up. Out motorcoachesarr nod1in& butlhc hipcst qualiry hiahw.ay coaches. We abo81~ you more extru wllh ourlriptlwliii1)'0IIC ebc. Don't blowit and ao on a lower qualiry trip. 
USTY.&tR OYER 71 PEOPLEHAD 171ETIME OF1711JJ1lIJFBONTHIS TRW. 
SIGN UP NOW AT THE 
TICKET OFFICE/ 
RECORD STORE 
10 AM 4 PM, 
MON. FRI. 
OR CALL 283-3031 

Thursday, February 11, 1982 -page 10 
The Notre Dame men's swim team travels to New York for back-to­buck meets this weekend. See story on page 9.(Photo by Cheryl Er­telt) 
OSU Buckeyes fight for tourney berth 
COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) -Eldon Miller, Ohio State's basketball coach, refuses to admit the Buckeyes are out of the Big Ten Conference race before they play at Purdue tonight. 
Ohio State has dropped three of its last four games to fall into sixth place in the Big Ten with a 5-5 record. The Buckeyes trail league­leading Iowa by four games with eight conference contests left. 
"This is another big weekend for us," Miller said. "We can't afford to lose any more games if we want to stay in the race. We're in it until 
we're mathematically eliminated. 
"But I'm not concerned about the standings this week. We're just going to be concerned about playing there." 
If the Buckeyes can avenge a 66­60 overtime loss to Purdue in Columbus last month, Ohio State would move into the first division. 
....The Buckeyes and Boilermakers would be tied for at least fifth place with 6-5 records. Ohio State then faces one of its most difficult places to play Saturday 
at Michigan State. The Spartans have beaten the Buckeyes nine con­secutive times in East Lansing. 
"This is not the the kind of team that concerns itself with those types of things. I don't worry about that," said Miller, whose team still nurses post-season tournament ambitions with a 14-8 overall record. 
The Buckeyes also went overtime against Michigan State in their first meeting this winter, seizing a 50-49 decision. Ohio State has played a Big Ten-record six overtimes this season, winning three of them. 
Ohio State will face a revamped 
lineup against Purdue, 9-10 for all 
games. 
Joe Gampfer, a 7-foot junior cen­
ter, and Ricky Hall, a 6-l sophomore 
guard, have moved into the Boiler­
makers' starting unit. They replace 
Russell Cross, who has moved from 
center to forward. and Kevin Stall­
ings, Purdue regulars against the 
Buckeyes in the first game. 
Of the bulky Gampfer, Miller said: 
"It sure gives them a good-looking 
entry in the tough man contest." 

WANTTORUN 
FOROFFICE? 
MandatoryMeeting Class offices needfUll ticket 
0-CCommissioner Thursday, 2/11 7 PM 
Room 2-D LaFortune 
.______call OBUD for more info 
ShowThemYou Care On Valentines Day Purchase 
IheObser:ver 
Personals 
Only Ten Cents for every Seven Characters 
Available Now at 
~-~­

Office 3rd Floor LaFortune 
Daily 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
After 13years 
Mean Joe Greene calls it quits 
PITTSBURGH (AP) -Defensive Greene played in 10 Pro Bowls tacklejoe Greene, the original build-and was a unanimous choice for the ing block of the Pittsburgh Steeler National Football League's team of dynasty and the cornerstone of the the decade for the I 970s. He was Steel Curtain front four, said yester-Chuck !\loll's first draft choice when day he was retiring after 13 seasons. Noll took over the team in 1969. 
Greene, 35, announced his deci-His coaches at North Texas State sion at a luncheon at the Allegheny called him "a fort on foot," although Club in Three Rivers Stadium, where a headline in a Pittsburgh newspaper he had been a scourge of opposing read "Joe Who?" after Gre~ne was quarterbacks, running backs and of-chosen as the fourth player overall. fensive lineman. The 6-4, 260-pound tackle earned 
This past season. however. the nickname Mean Joe because his Greene was relegated to part-time college team, the Eagles, was called status as the Steelers gave more the Mean Green. playing time to Tom Beasley and ex-He would be known forever as perimented with a three-man line. Mean Joe following a tumultuous rookie season durin~ which the Steelers went l-13 before blossom­ing into one ofpro football's all-time powerhouses. 

Greene was twice thrown out of games as a rookie. Once he belted quarterback Fran Tarkenton, then with the New York Giants, well after Tarkenton had released a pass. And he was later bounced for fighting with Minnesota lineman Jim Vellone. 
In addition, the NFL fined Greene S500 for knocking out several teeth from Cleveland center .Bob DeMarco later tjlat year. 
More recently, Greene won a Clio award for his acting in a soft drink commercial and was the subject ofa television movie that ironically dealt with his retirement. 
During Greene's illustrous career, the Steelers transformed themselves from NFL doormats to win four Super Bowls in six years. 
GUADALAJARA 
SUMMER 
SCHOOL 

University of Arizona offers more than 40 courses; anthro­pology, art, bilingual educa­tion, folk music and folk dance, history, political sci­ence, sociology, Spanish lan­guage and literature and in­tensive Spanish. Six-week session. June 28-August 6, 1982. Fully accredited grad­uate and undergraduate pro­gram. Tuition $360. Room and board in Mexican home, $395. EEO/AA
Write Guadalajara Summer School 
Robert L. Nugent 205 University of Arizona Tucson 85721 (602) 626-4729 


-~-~------·-----~-----~-----,_ -------~----. 
~~[======================================= 
~~4()lC)L~•t============================T=h=u=r=sd=a=y=,F=e=b=r=u=ary==l=l=,=I=9=8=2===p=a=g=e==ll
\1olarity 

Doonesbury 

TH/3Re, PAL.' 

'rtJIJ P!<UrliS&[) BeTTeR PeAL. WHO Afl£ YOIR 
I'M YOU!< 

Me 2fXJ PIIY-7HeY{)!f)N/HAve
Cf)I{TACT. 

lNG t<efiEUS! MVCH MONet, SO
I \ 
' '

Sirnon 

'/ 
I 
'\ "" 
1111~

M~KE 
ACROSS 1 Market­
places of Greece 7 Amusement centers 

The Daily Crossword 
16 Attire 
\1ichael \1olinelli 

BUT HY JOB P~YS NUOt HDFiE, MIIC.H, AND 11 15 IN BD5TDN. WE G,D 

/4/HfflJ ARE ANOTHER. CAPTAIN
ALPHfJo/5f3

HOWITRJGHT 
TH& OTH&R.S? OFft/?ElJ THEM A
PETIT-POlS. 


©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
18 Fine performer 19 Like the driven snow 20 US fighter plane 22 Barracuda 23 Sesame 24 Arabian tambourine 25 Office· holders

Wednesday's Solution 
RAM P SIPAOP.DAAT ,•.,.,,  
U80 AT  OAHU.EELY  
8 U T  T 0  N U P 0 N E S L I P  
E T 0  •c  EN T. G  R I  E V E  
-R  A K  E 0  • 0 E G  R E ..•• E S  
S A AW  A AO  CINC.OR  I p  
F A  0  CAT T.Y-E  G 0  
E y••• 0 E L  E D  OGEE.RAT  E S  
E R  OD EAME!JtSENA TIE A Y E 0 P E T A L ••ES.PERU•I  0 S I  
S A  V E  s  0  N E  s 8  R E  A T  H,  
A T  E N  . F  E L  T.  N 0  T R E  
c 0  R 0 •  F  E E  s•  S N  E A 0  


2111/82 


\\I 
26 Catch on an obstruction 28 Droop In 
the heat 29 Scuffle 31 Historic 33 Ill temper 34 Fail-safe 36 Knightly 
suits 39 Ejecting from office 42 Facial 
adornment 43 Antic 44 A Charles 46 Cleaning 
cloth 47 Grit 48 Man of the 
house 
t.-IST{;N I/ X'N NOT STAYING! HOH£ TD 
l.• 1I: 1 5 a.m., 5:30p.m. -First Cla....s, Ct:nsus Data 
HAVE 'BABIE-S!.'/ 
and Softwart:, :\-1-115 Computt:r Centt:r/Math Building Z•Noon · -1 p.m. -"Government Career Day", Lafortum: Ballroom, Sponsort:d by PlaccmenL Bureau, All stud~:nts invitt:d 2•1 2:30p.m. -Films, "Hung~:r in East Africa" and "I Want to Uvt:", Hunga Projt·ct, LaFortune Littk Theatre, Sponsort:d by Studt:nt Govnnmt:nt 2•4 p.m. -Seminar, "Carbohydrate free Radical Chemistry in the Solid State and Aqueous Solu­tions", Dr. Keith Madden, Radiation Lab Con­fer~:nce Theatre Laboratory, Sponsored by Radiation Department 
2•4:20 p.m. -Colloquium, "Graphite lmcrcal­
Garry Trudeau 
culation Compounds: Phase Transitions and Lattice Dynamics", Dr. Nordu Wada, University of lllinois, 1 18 Nit:uwland Science Hall, Sponsored by
USTE.N, I'M A l/Trl.& 

I CAN'T SHOI<TMYSEJ.r. CllJ/.1? 
Physics Department
5TAN{) I atE )(JJ UNTIL. 
2•6:30 p.m. -Meeting, AIESEC, Lafortune: Little: 
...., IT. I STRJK& IT RICH ·. \ IN AMERICA? 
Theatre: 2•7 p.m. -Reading, Sonia Sanchez. writt•r, pot·t, author and playwright. Memorial Library Auditorium, Sponson:d by Black Cuhural Arts fes­tival 2•7 p.m. -First Class, Computer Consciousness, :\1·11; Computer Cc:nter/.\1ath Building 2•7, '), I I p.m. -Film, "Paper Chase:", Enginc:c:r· ing Auditorium, Sponsored by Pi Sigma Alpha 2•7:30 p.m. -Film, "lnddc:nt at Brown's ferry", 35 I :\1adcleva Hall, Saint Mary's College:, Sponsored by Social Ecology Film Series, Discus­sion will follow film
Jeb Cashin 
2•8 p.m. -Film, "Five :\1inutes 10 Midnight", Cen· tt:r tf.>r Continuing Education, ETS Theatre:, Sponsored by Student Government 2•8 p.m. -Concert, Heidi Lc:hwaldt:r, Harp, Carol Wincenc, Flute, O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint :\1ary's College:, Sponsored by Performing Artists Series, S4 adults, S2 students 2•10:30 p.m. -ND Week in Review, WSND AM 
64 
2•1 I p.m. -Album Hour, "Growing in thl· Dark". Glass .\1oon WSND A.\1 64 
: T.V. Tonight 
7:00p.m. 
49 Along in 21 Fountain years pen re­51 More silent placement 
7:30p.m.
53 A martial 27 Like very art much 54 Inhabitant 28 "-on 
of an area first?" 56 Habitue 29 Blemish 58 Plead 30 Pixyish 
8:00p.m. 59 Backboned 32 String 60 Bettors 33 Nothing 61 Slept special 
soundly? 35 Steering mechanisms 
8:30p.m.DOWN 36 Scrapes 1 Takes as harshly one's own 37 Chemical 
9:00p.m.
2 Not fake reactor 
3 Extend on 38 Reddish another purple part 40 Having 4 Ascend rounded 
9:30p.m.
5 Sham lumps 6 Observes 41 Shade by 
lO:OOp.m.
7 Noah's degrees landfall 43 Scares ott 8 More 45 Worshiped unusual 47 Spread 9 Town the mud dweller 50 Bogarde 
10:30p.m. 10 French of films pals 52 Big names, 
ll:OOp.m. 11 Notwith­lor short standing 53 Jupiter's 
12 Political consort understand· 55 Final ing letter 
11:30 p.m.
13 Cowboy hat 57 Kind of 15 Of space rummy 


16 :vtASH 22 CBS Nc:w' 28 Joker's Wild 34 The: .\1al·Nc:il/Lc:hn:r Report 46 Rc:v. David Paul 16 The: Muppc:t Show 22 Family Fc:ud 28 Tk Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 46 W. V. Grant 16 Fame: 22 Magnum. P.l. 28 .\1ork and Mindy 34 Sneak Pn·vkws 46 Lc:stc:r Sumrall Teaching 28 Bosom Buddies 34 This Old llousc: 46 Pattern For Living 16 Dilfrc:nt Strokes 22 Knots Landing 28 liarnl'Y :\tilll'r 34 Austin City Limit' 46 Today with Lc:stc:r Sumrall 16 (jimme: A lireak 28 Taxi 16 II ill Stfl'C:t lilue' 22 ~ur'l' 28 l0/20 34 \tichigan Outdoors 46 Jal·k Van lmpl' 34 Training Dog' Till' \X'oodhousl· War 46 Faith !'or Today 16 ~ewsCc:ntl·r 16 22 ll Eyl·witnc:s' Nl·ws 28 ~l·w,watch 2H 34 The Dil'k Cave:!! Show 46 l'rai'c: Thl· Lord 16 Tonight Show 22 <)uincy/Thc: Saint 28 ABC ~c:w' Nightlinc: 

.... 
• 
Thursday, February 11, 1982 -page 12 
More possible 

Faust adds three to frosh list 

By KELLY SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame signed a total of 24 high school seniors yesterday and may add one more in the next week, according to Coach Gerry Faust. 
In addition to those mentioned in Wednesday's Observer, the Irish added running back Pat Barrage (Pueblo, Colorado), defensive back Mike Heywood (Houston, Texas) and defensive lineman Eric Dorsey (McClean, Virginia). One name on yesterday's list, tailback Reggie Dupard (Kenner, Louisiana) is still 
undecided, and probably won't an­
nounce his choice of colleges until 
after he takes his visit to Southern 
Methodist. 
"Our coaching staff did an excel­
lent job once again," said Faust. 
"They got an early lead on the 
seniors, and stayed on top ofthem all 
season." 
And they were successful despite 
a season of rough weather. "The 
worst five weekends of this winter 
were our heavy recruiting 
weekends. Yet the very worst day of 
weather was our best day as far as 
receiving verbal commitments," he 
added. 
Many of those commitments 

Ski sensation 
Meyer aitnsfor nationals 
Ashowdown at Brule, Michigan will be on the agenda this weekend for some of the members of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's ski-racing teams. After an impressive performance at Northern Michigan last week, and equally impressive showings earlier in the year, both the men's and women's teams managed to crash the top five of the 47-team Midwestern region. As a result, the teams received invitations late Tuesday night for the "National Collegiate Qualifying ·Races" to be held in Brule. The national championship are to be held a week later. Representing the Notre Dame men in the races (in which over I00 people will participate) will be Mike Maas, Sean Chandler, Steve Hilbert, Kim Hewson and Barry Tharp. The women that will compete for Notre Dame are Teresa Abrams, Kate Gaffney, Julie Currie, Beth Mahrer and Sue Hull. Colleen Dwyer and Sharon Smiggen will represent Saint Mary's, but most of the at­tention will be focused on the Belles' sophomore sensa­tion Terri Meyer. 
Last week's performance by Meyer at Northern Michigan is just a small testimony to her racing talents. On both Saturday and Sunday she placed first overall, ahead of over 60 women in both the slalom and giant­slalom races, easily won the "Most Valuable Racer" award for the meet, and helped Saint Mary's to a third place overall finish out of 13 teams (The Notre Dame women placed fifth). Saturday's meet was called the "Meyer Cup" which is named for Terri's father, who is a well-known ski instructor in Michigan and is affiliated with 30 ofits ski areas. 
But don't get wrong idea, Terri's talents go far beyond keeping family trophies within the family. 
"Terri is definetely the top female ski racer within our Eastern division (which includes the states of In­diana, Ohio, Michigan and New York)" says Tharp, the club's president. "I haven't seen how the women from the Western region ski, but I am sure that she will have as good a chance as any to compete in the nationals." 
Terri at once protests and laughs at Tharp's prognosis of her skills, but aft~r first deciding not to compete in this weekend's meet in protest of the fact that the team thought only Terri, and not the entire squad, was invited to the qualifying races, she's raring to set out to prove herself again.
' 
"She's already getting psyched up," said Tharp earlier in the week. 
At the age of four, when most people are learning how to tie their shoes, Meyer already had a pair of skis on her feet. In her early years she belonged to a ski club that participated in "fun races." The races became even more fun once she became a freshman in Cadillac High School in Cadillac, Michigan. She quickly made all­conference as a freshman and first team all-state selec­tion by her sophomore year. Her greatest feats, however, included twice being the individual cham­pion in the state regionals and leading Cadillac to two state titles. In her senior year she also was a member of the "United States Ski Association" and competed in the "Elite Division" ofthe group. However, senior year also 

brought forth something more important than racing trophies. 
"I began to decide that this was not going to be a lifetime thing," she recalls. "There were some members of my family that were encouraging me to go to college somewhere where the ski programs are varsity and have more emphasis in developing talent, but I knew that I would never be Olympic material and that there were other things to do with my life. It is kind ofsad for me, though, that I won't be really racing more com­petitively after I am finished with school." 
That is why weeke Inds like this one are all the more special for her. 
To Tharp, Meyer represents the essence of what the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's ski-clubs are all about ­the combination ofgoing out for a good time along with that of turning in a top-notch athletic performance. 
"We don't practice all week, and half the time we compete against varsity programs. Yet we have always had good individuals competing for us and have had great financial support from our members (over 100 strong) and from the Non-Varsity Athletic Office," says Tharp. "What really makes the club, though, is the great cameraderie that exists between us. 
"We have traveled 2800 miles in the last four weeks and we try to give everyone the chance to race. We are a group ofnon-stop energy and fun." 
MEN'S VOLLEYBALL-For the second straight week, Calvin College managed to nudge past Notre Dame in a tournament comprised of the squads from the seven­team division the Irish compete in in the" Midwest Vol­leyball Association." After losing the first three matches in the preliminaries, the Irish managed to trounce Mich­igan I S-6 and Oakland (Mich.) I S-8 to go into the tour­ney seeded fourth among the six-teams that participated. From there, the Irish recorded impressive triumphs over Oakland and Bowling Green (where the meet was held) by respective scores of I 5-3, I 5-7 and 
I S-7, IS-1 0. In the final, however, the Irish went down to a I S-7, 6-1 S, 9-1 S defeat to Calvin. Notre Dame now is second in its division with a total of eight points earned in two tournaments. Calvin is first with 10 J?Oints with points being based on five for first place teams, four for second and so forth. Among the new parti<;pants that were able to compete significantly to the cause include Mark Basset who started in place of the injured Kevin Hinders, and top substitute perfor­manet~s from Joe Lynch and Carlos Ausset. 
See CORNER, page 9 
came from Chicago's prep stars. The Irish signed seven blue-chip players from that area, and the talent there was considered to be the best in the last 20 years. 
"George Kelly (linebacker coach) is the reason we got them all," said Faust. "I got on his back for not bringing any Chicago players in last year," he chuckled, "but he sure did a heck of job this season." 
There were a couple of prospects 

that disappointed the coaches by not signing, but Faust admitted "You're going to lose some every year." Eleven seniors that Notre Dame wanted either did not sign or make visits here. 
Faust said the Irish picked up some speed with the '82 recruits. He named eight players with 40-yard dash times of 4.4 or 4. S, and said no 
See RECRUITS, page 9 
Mary D nominated for coach-of-year 
By MARK HANNUKSELA 
Sports Writer 

It all started with a recruiting year that brought five ofthe nation's 
best freshmen women to Notre Dame. 

It has continued through this I 5-4 season, a season that has found 
Notre Dame consistently ranked among the nation's leaders in five 
statistical catagories. 

It may or may not end with a bid to a national post-season tourna­
ment. 
But it hasn't gone unnoticed. 

A panel of 100 sports information directors, sports writers and 
coaches has included Irish women's basketball coach Mary DiStanis­
lao among its 20 finalists for the fifth annual Stayfree Coach of the 
Year award, given to the nation's outstanding women's collegiate 
basketball coach in the Large College catagory. 

The award is also presented to coaches in the small and 
junior/community colleges catagories, and the winner will be an­
nounced at an awards dinner at the Pierre Hotel in New York City 
March 30. 
Twenty coaches have been nominated in each catagory. 

''I'm very flattered," DiStanislao said before last night's game 
against Taylor University. "It's always flattering to be recognized by 
your peers." 

This marks the third time DiStanislao has been nominated for the award. While the head coach at Northwestern, DiStanislao received nominations in I')79 and I980. 
Old Dominion's Mary Ann Stanley won the award in 1979, and Judy Conradt ofTexas won it the following year. Joan Bon vicini ofCalifornia State University at Long Beach was last year's winner. 
Among DiStanislao's competition for the 1982 award are the coaches of nine of this week's top 20 teams, including Sonja Hogg of Louisiana Tech, Linda Sharp of USC, Stanley and Vivian Stinger of Cheyney State -the coaches ofthe top four teams in the latest poll. 
In addition to the top coaches, the nation's outstanding female collegiate player will be presented the Wade Trophy at the March 30 dinner. 
Womenscore 79-41 win over Taylor 
By MARK HANNUKSELA 
Sports Writer 
A couple of passes turned around 
what had until then been a sluggish 
Notre Dame performance, and 
spurred the Irish on to a school 
record seventh straight win at home, 
79-41 over Taylor University last 
night at the ACC. 
Junior forward Shari .\1atvey, the 
beneficiary of the passing display, 
was the game's leading scorer and 
rebounder. She pumped in 9-of-1 3 
field goal attempts for 18 points, and 
hauled down six rebounds. 
Freshman Carrie Bates scored in double figures for the ninth straight time, one shy of the team record held by Matvey and 1979 graduate Carol Lally. 
Bates finished with 14, while .\1ary Beth Schueth added I I and Theresa Mullins 10. 
:vtullins was perfect from the floor, canning all five ofher t1eld goal attempts. 
Notre Dame had lengthened a I 0­
point halftime lead to I 5, 45-30, 
when Schueth and Ruth Kaiser 
hooked up with Matvey to turn 
things around. 
After a Trojane miss, junior guard 
Debbie Hensley took an outlet pass 
and fired it down the floor to 

Schueth, who came down with her 
back to the Irish baseline that she 
nearly stepped on. 

Schueth immediately pushed a pass out to Kaiser, who was coming down the left wing right in front of her. Kaiser then ignited the sparse gathering with a blind shovel pass to Matvey, who was coming down the right wing. 
Matvey went straight to the hole and scored, and the Irish were on their way to a 23-0 spurt that put to rest any doubts Taylor had left in the minds oflrish faithful in the first half. 
"That 'awesome passing display by Schueth and Kaiser'," said Irish Coach ,\1ary DiStanislao as she read from the official play-by-play sheet, 
See WOMEN, page 9 
INSIDE: 
Recruits p.lO BigTen p.lO MeanJoep.lO Swimming p. 9 
• 


