
-~-~----­
.Football 

At conference 
Bishops condemn nuclear-war 
WASHINGTON (AP) ~ Despite the finishing touches are applied. population centers, now part ofU. S. 
late appeals from the White House, The 25,000-word declaration of strategy, or any first use of such Roman Catholic bishops voiced the church's position denounces as weapons, an option the administra­strong support yesterday for a immoral any use ofnuclear weapons tion says is essential against poten­sweeping condemnation of nuclear or intent to use them, and says even 
tially overwhelming conventional 
warfare, including an assault on key possession of them as a deterrent is 
forces in Western Europe.
asaspects ofU.S. strategic policy. tolerable only if progress is being 
Archbishopjoseph L. Bernardin of 
The National Conference ofCath· made toward mutual disarmament. 
Chicago, head of a committee that
otic Bishops deferred final adoption "We see with clarity the political of the document, a prospective folly of a system which threatens drafted the letter, said the day's dis­teaching letter, until further refine­mutual suicide," the letter says. cussion showed the bishops ments are made at a special meeting It condemns targeting of nuclear "strongly support" the general next May. weapons on installations near thrust ofthe document. 
The upsurge of support came at a pivotal closing session ofthe Nation­al Conference ofCatholic Bishops in 

Mass sums up SMC
the face of overt White House op­
position. A procession of speakers 
took the floor to back the gist ofthe 
fast for world's hungry
document. 
Archbishop john R. Roach of St. By TONI RUTHERFORD to inequity. Paul-Minneapolis, the conference StaffReporter Stella described this last phase as president, said the mood of the bis­"death before death." hops showed general endorsement "I hope that what we do tonight According to Stella,"The only of the letter. will be an appropriate summation of good reason to enter into an ex­
Asked at a news conference ifob­what the past 24 hours have been" perience like this is for love. If we jections dispatched to the meeting said Father Tom Stella in the closing are Christians, the reasons under­by President Reagan and top ad· liturgy for yesterday's fast at Saint neath our action is love." ministration officials would in­Mary's. Apparently the Saint Mary's com­fluence further modifications to be More than 80 people attended the munity was full oflove yesterday. No made in the document, Roach said Saint Mary's service to end the "Fast problems with participants attempt­"they will be taken very seriously, al­for a World's Harvest." The theme of ing to break the fast were reported though we were aware of much of the liturgy was unity with the by the dining hall. About 80 people the material and had received it world's hungry, and Stella allowed attended the activities planned before." fast participants to share the day's throughout the day. 
Roach said, however, the ad­experience during the homily. 
ministration's complaint that the "I felt really good about doing it, See MASS, page 4 
bishops' document ignored but I also felt guilty knowing that at 
Reagan's overtures to negotiate 9:30 I would go to Mass and eat 
nuclear arms reductions seemed a again. The poor don't have that op­
"valid point" and added, "Perhaps portunity," said one fasting student. 
Baker, Michel 
our document would be enriched "I began to feel tired by my 1:00 
somewhat if it referred to such ef­class, but I also began to feel more 
forts by this administration and pre­sensitive to the problems ofothers," 

Congress to kill tax cuts 
vious administrations." said another. 

However, he said he saw no "My roomates and I asked our­WASHINGTON (AP) "Well, I just said we don't have the flation over the past year, but added 
inclination to drop the document's selves what fasting would actually Republican congressional leaders votes," Michel told reporters it would be dangerous to make 
call for a nuclear freeze, criticized by do," one girl said. "We realized that informed President Reagan yester­outside the White House after the "massive cuts" in the defense 
the White House as damaging the it may not do anything to help the day that he simply does not have the 45-minute meeting. "It wouldn't be budget. 
U.S. negotiating position. world, but it does open awareness to votes to advance the last phase ofhis an easy task to get done." Baker said he believed Reagan 
"I reject the idea that a freeze others." income tax cut to january. Reagan is considering asking would propose that the lame-duck would undermine administration ef­Unity with the poor and starving Senate Majority Leader Howard H. Congress to push up the date of the session of Congress pass a jobs forts," Roach said. seemed to be what most participants Baker and House Republican Leader tax cut -the third installment ofhis program to repair highways and 
The nearly 300 bishops, leaders of experienced. Stella seemed to feel Robert H. Michel delivered that 25-percent income tax reduction bridges financed by a five-cent-a­the country's 50 million Catholics, that the fast enabled the fasters to message -along with some other over three years -as a way to stim­gallon increase in gasoline taxes. voted overwhelmingly to set a spe­experience the feelings that come unpleasant news -in their first con­ulate the economy. 
Transportation Secretary Drew cial meeting May 2-3 in Chicago to with hunger: Irritation, anger, ference with the president since the Under that proposal, the 5 per­
Lewis has said that proposal wouldformally act on the document aftt"r depression, and finally resignation Nov. 2 election. cent cut in tax rates duejan. I, I984, create about 320,000 jobs. Reagan

and the second IO percent reduc­
prefers not to call it a jobs program,tion in the amount of tax withheld since he opposed the public-worksfrom worker paychecks, due next approach to the unemploymentjuly I, would instead take effect jan. 
dilemma during the campaign.
I, I983. The net effect would be a I5 The majority leader left no doubt
Walesarelease baffles experts 
percent cut in tax rates in I983, that a jobs program of some type
rather than I 0 percent, and the full would be a congressional priority.

By PAM RICHARDSON regime." Walesa's leadership, it would have to reduction would be felt in payc­StaffReporter Ivanus and Christine Paige, an in­remain underground. hecks at the start ofthe year. "What I'm saying is I'm going to 
structor in the government depart­That change also would increase a talk to the speaker (Tip) O'Neil and 
The release of Solidarity chief ment, both said W alesa was the Paige stated her views on the looming record deficit, already see if we can gain up a jobs bill," 
Communist Party in Poland, saying 

leader of the moderate wing of the Baker said, leaving open the pos­that before martial law existed in Lech Walesa from prison and his projected at upwards of SI iO bil­
return home last Sunday is still baf­Solidarity Union. Ivan us said he may lion, by about S I 5 billion, and the sibility that it could be more ex­fling the minds of experts all over have been released in order to chan­Po.land, several Communist Party Republican leaders said they feared tensive that the proposal Reagan is 
members joined Solidarity. considering.
the world, including Theodore B. nel the moderate forces into a new it would have the effect ofincreasingDicipline within t~e party soon may
Ivan us, assistant professor ofgovern· forum with the radical wing of the interest rates as well. 
The idea ofadvancing the tax cut,
tighten to keep other members from

ment and intemationai studies. non-existant party. He said the The leaders predicted it would be which would mean an extra S93 in 
joining Solidarity, she said.

The question remains as to why gathering of the moderate forces in difficult to make further cuts in non· 
I983 for a typical family offour with the government de< · :i to release Solidarity and the political society at Paige said there is speculation defense spending, despite Reagan's an income of S20,000, drew no en­him after eleven mo• , in martial­large would benefit both the govern­assertion in New Orleans on Tues·
whether or not Walesa's release was thusiasm from Baker or Michel. 
law custody and wh) ,ney decided ment and the public. day that that is precisely where he
connected with the death of Soviet 
In a separate briefing, presidentialto release him at this time. Ivanus said there is need to find intended to cut.

President Leonid Brezhnev. She also 
spokesman Larry Speakes sought toThe Polish authorities said they "new political solutions" in order to "I think we've cut just about as

commented that everyone's 
minimize any differences betweenfreed Walesa becaust they didn't revitalize and centralize the party. much as we can cut," Baker said.

"sending singals" now that Walesa 
the White House and GOP leaders.

consider him a politica: chreat. In ad­He said there were approximately "We've wrung a lot out of the non­
dition, Walesa promis~::d to abide by ten million members in the has be~n released, including the defense side. Now we are going to Asked whether the session con­
the laws set by the martial law outlawed Solidarity union. United States, who may have have to take a look at the defense vinced Reagan that advancing the 
government. Paige said there are many dropped their sanctions against the side." tax cut would be politically difficult, 
lvanus said Walesa v as released in Solidarity leaders still in jail today. Soviet pipeline as a show ofsupport He said several billion dollars Speakes said the president wanted to order "to rake the sri·Jg our of the She warned if the Solidarity move­for • the efforts ofpeace between the could be shaved from defense discuss the issue further with his hostility toward the new (Soviet) ment were to start up again under west and east. spending because of the drop in in-economic advisers. 







1..: 

ewsBrie./§ 

By The ObserfJer and The Associated Press 
A two-day conference entitled "Perspectives on American Catholicism" will be convened by the University of Notre Dame's Charles and Margaret Hall Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism Nov. 19 at the University's Center for Continuing Education. Largely historical in focus, the conference's six sessions will cover several aspects ofthe American Catholic ex­perience, including Catholic education, the history ofthe immigrant Church, the historiography of Catholic women's religious com­munities the social backgrounds of American women religious, the influence of Catholicism on prominent American Catholic writers, and the relationship ofAmerican contemplative religious to modern society. Among the 40 historians, sociologists and theologians par­ticipating in the conference will be David J. O'Brien, professor of history at Holy Cross College; Mary Jo Weaver, professor oftheology at Indiana University; William McCready, professor of sociology at 
the University ofChicago;James Hennessey,S.}., professor ofhistory at Boston College; Marie Augusta Neal, professor ofsociology at Em­manuel College; andJohn Coleman, S.J., professor ofsociology at the Jesuit School of Theology at Berkeley. The "Perspectives on American Catholicism" conference is sponsored by the Charles and Margaret Hall Cushwa Center for the St1,1dy ofAmerican Catholicism, the Ancient Order of Hibernians, and the Ladies Auxiliary of the Ancient Order of Hibernians in conjunction with Notre Dame's Department ofHistory and Center for Continuing Education. -The 
Observer 
Two ofSean O'Casey's best-known plays, a lecture by a renowned Casey scholar and a talk by the Irish playwright's widow will be presented at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's the first week in December as part ofthe Sean O'Casey Festival, sponsored by the University's College of Arts and Letters. The series of events celebrating Ireland's most famous playwright will begin with a talk by Mrs. :Eileen O'Casey entitled "Sean and Myself." The lecture, which will include a BBC film about O'Casey, will be presented Wednesday, Dec. 1, at 8 p.m. in the Architecture Auditorium. A lecture by David Krause of Brown University entitled "O'Casey and Marx and Christ" will be presented Thursday, Dec. 2, at 4:30p.m. in 117 Haggar Hall. Krause is the author of the definitive O'Casey autobiography, Sean O'Casey: The Man and His Work and has also edited O'Casey's letters. A student production ofa late O'Casey play, Cock-A-Doodle-Dandy, will be presented Thursday, Dec. 2 and Friday, Dec. 3, at 8 p.m. in the Uttle Theater at Saint Mary's. The production is directed by Reginald F. Bain, Associate Professor of Communicaton and Theatre at Notre Dame.]uno andPaycock, one of O'Casey's most highly acclaimed plays about Dublin tenement life, will be presented Saturday, Dec. 4, at 8:30 p.m. in the Little Theater at Saint Mary's. The play is being produced by the Theatre Guild of the Council of Irish Arts. This company gave a dramatic reading ofworks byJames Joyce last spring at Notre Dame, and two years ago, presented a production of another O'Casey play, The Shadow ofa Gunman. Admission to all events is free and the public is invited. -The Observer 
Naturalist and professional wildlife 
cinematographer John Wilson will present his film "Wild Canada; Coast and Coast," a view of Canada's Atlantic and Pacific coasts at Carroll Hall at Saint Mary's Sunday at 2:30. In the film, Wilson ex­plores Canada's varied landscape and t wildlife, including the world's highest tides in the Bay ofFunday and the Stellar lions of the Queen Charlotte Islands. The film is sponsored by the South Bend Audobon Wildlife Film Series. The film is open to the public and tickets may be purchased at the door. -The Observer 
Saint Mary'S will be the site Saturday of the sixth annual Indiana Choral Directors Association College Choral Festival. Designed to provide participants an opportunity to hear other col­lege choirs, work with conductors other than their own, join other singers in a massed choir performance and meet students who share a love for choral singing, the one day festival begins at 9 a.m. and concludes at 5 p.m. All performances, open to the public without charge, will be staged in the O'Laughlin Auditorium. Choirs from Anderson College, Manchester College, Marion College,-Saint­Mary's of-the-Woods College, Western Michigan University and Saint Mary's will participate. Each group will present a 25-minute program, participate in one ofthree ad hoc choirs for the festival and sing in a massed choir conducted by Professor Mellvey, director of choral activities at Western Micigan and president of the central division of the American Chqral Directors Association. -The Ob­server 
The first oftwo defective space suits arrived here yes­terday, and engineers began taking it apart to find out what forced cancellation of a space walk on the shuttle's fifth flight. The suit, which astronaut Bill Lenoir was to have worn in a 3-hour space walk earlier this week, was flown to the Johnson Space Center where a select team ofengineers immediately began testing it. A suit that was to have been used by Lenoir's space walk partner, astronaut Joe AI· len, is expected to arrive from California today. Richard Colonna, head ofa team of engineering detectives investigati'lg the problem, said the group would work through the weekend studying the mal· functions. Allen arid Lenoir discovered the broken suit components while preparing on Monday for a space walk aboard Columbia. The walk was canceled and the suits returned to Earth untested. -AP 
Continued mlld today with a 50 percent -chance of rain. Highs in the upper 50s to low 60s. Cloudy tonight and mild with a 70 percent chance for showers. Lows in the upper 40s to low 50s. Good chance ofshowers Saturday with highs in the upper 50s to low 
60s. -AP 

Friday, November 19, 1982 -page 2 
The last Veteran.'s memorial 
The post office was closed last Thursday. 

With civil obedience, Notre Dame's postal workers observed the day our country reserves to honor those who risked their lives defending the cause ofthe United States. 
Most of us just went to class. 

Some of us went to the arms race convocation, though, and paid a different kind of tribute -one to mankind and the future. I think veterans would have approved. 
In Washington, 15,000 of them gathered for a five­day National Salute to VietNam Veterans. Sponsored by the ex-soldiers themselves, the events Included a parade down Constitution Avenue and the dedication of the most controversial monument ever constructed in D.C., the VietNam Veterans Memorial. 
I've seen most of the pictures and read most of the captions. "Stark" seems to be a popular media descrip­tion, followed by technical particulars: a V-shaped black granite wml planted into the grassy Mall below the Washington Monument. 
The photographs are stirring. Individuals scanning the memorial for the chiseled name of a loved one among the 57,939 listings which fill the granite sides. All of them appeared som· ber; a few wept. 
Watching the scene, and 

itself, seemed appropriate, if 
not long overdue. 
Evidently, Jan Scruggs, a Viet Nam vet and a Labor Department bureaucrat thought so. He spearheaded the drive for the S7 million, donor-financed monument. 
Maya Ying Lin, a young Yale architecture student, did also. She won the design competition from among 1,421 entries. 
But finally, the country did. And now, seven years after the last casualty, we have a monument. 
I thought Icould identify with the visitors at the Mall. But to mimic those who can casually say, "I know how you feel" to others in times of crisis only would be casual treatment ofa sensitive and serious occasion. 
First, I have not visited the monument and, therefore, find it impossible to convey my impressions ofits stark­ness or its power to stir emotions. 
Second, and most importantly, I was spared the tragedy of losing a loved one in the war. My fading memories ofVietNam are ofDavid Brinkley, et al, recit­ing the latest movement around the DMZ, showing peace marches at some college, and finally giving us the view of that last helicopter to leave Saigon. 
The Observer 
Design Editor ......... Suzanne LaCroix ( I st shift) 
J.P. Keyes (graveyard) Design Assistant .... Tom Small (1st shift) 
Pete White (graveyard) Typesetters ............................. Bruce & Tom News Editor ............................ Mike Wilkins Copy Ettltor ............................ Greg Swiercz Features Layout.................. ]oe Musemeci Editorials Layout ............... Ken Cerabona Sports Copy Editor ............................ Richie ND Day Editor .......................... Tim Petters SMC Day Editor .................... Greggie again Typists ..................................Jeannine Hines 
Laura Degnan Ad Design ....................................... Bob Slota Pbotogt·apber ........................... Scott Bower Guest Appearances ........... Ricardi, Dzave, 
Worscheh (far into the night)Jeb, Toni with the magic lingers, a budding Kajira. 
Let's go to "Bert's ... 
The Observer (USPS 598 9201 ·,s published Monday through Fnday and on horne football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer 1s published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys Col· lege Subscnptlons rnay be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnt1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1an3 46556 
The Observer 1s a member of The Associated Press All reproduct1on nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 

Live for G.od and His P8ople as a ••.. 
....\.. 


Capuchin 
a··what? , 
Capuchin Franciscans are a r~ fraternity of men trying to live the Gospel in. · .,. ~-~ the Spirit of Francis of Assisi in today's. .. ' world. . · 
Join us in promoting peace, education, and justice--in ghettoes... in jails.•~ in ·~~o...-... soup kitchens . .-in parishes ... in haJtway 
houses ... on radio and TV. 
Join us in working with and for the advancement of blacks, whites, HisJpanjcs, 
native Americans and people of the World in Central America. 
Check out wnether being a Capuchin,. committed to HviOs tot GOd and his pe<)pie, · in the spirit of Francis; is for you. No obligation.' Write today for more. Jnforlna:Don. 
....,................... Clip .nd Mall Todllyl ·-'····'···c···'"···· . · Fither John Holly, OFM CapUchin, 1820 Mt. EHi<'tt Avenue, 
··· . . ~ Detroit Ml 48207 · Yes, eeml me-Information about the~ wav of life. Name'·_,;_____________ 
Age-.-­

College _______Address _____, 
City ,_. ..;.·_ _.___ State _____zjp ___ 


Mark Worscheh 
AsSistant News Editor Inside 
Yet, as a member of the final contingent of the baby boom, I can speak to what that monument means to me in the present. 
The Oliphant cartoon which appeared in Tuesday's Observer struck me harder than any ofthe photographs which graced the pages of Time, Newsweek, or U.S. News & World Report. 
The drawing shows a father leading his elementary school-aged son by the hand down the length ofthe Viet Nam Veterans Memorial. The son is inquisitive, and the dialogue runs. as follows: 
"Will there be another war, dad?" 
"Hope not, son." 
"lfthere is, will I be a veteran?" 
"Next war won't have 
veterans, son." 

complacent toward the pos­sibilities of international war. 
This is where the memorial has especially relevant meaning for college age persons -as a reminder not only ofthose who sacrificed themselves, but as a tribute also to veterans, the endangered species ofhumanity. It is a chilling thought that the last U.S. veteran is the one chiseled at the end ofthe the granite wall. 
But that is what Jonathan Schell would believe. He is the author ofThe Fate ofthe Earth, a bestselling book that frankly discusses the effects ofnuclear war and the responsibilities we have to prevent one. The book is quick reading and must reading. Borrow a copy from any AL sophomore. 
If Veteran's Day can teach us anything, it is that there won't be anymore veterans and that we must preserve the world for the future. Does it make any sense that the veterans we do have must risk their lives twice, and the rest ofus even once? 
having become familiar with the history ofthe Viet Nam conflict, I thought could identify with those who came to honor the men who never received a homecom· ing parade, the men who indeed never came home. 
I have heard the stories of VietNam veterans returning home to empty ports or welcoming committees cheering obscenities. To pay tribute to the men who followed the request oftheir country, but not to the war 
The generations that are in college today are among the first who have lived un­der the combination of the shadow of nuclear destruc­tion and the fortunate inex­perience ofany sort ofwar. 
In one sense, we are lucky. No blood from the Class of 1985 has been spilled on anyone's soil in the name of defending a cause. For this, everyone can be truly grateful. On the other hand, our naivete of conflict can easily make us 





·------,
-------------------------~-----~--------..... ... 
The Observer Friday, November 19, 1982-page 3 , 
----------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Ambassador Sehgiyeh 
Lebanon needs to tneet goals 
By KIMBERLY MALOOF 
News Staff 
Freedom from foreign interven­tion and the desire for the people of Lebanon to live together as an inde­pendent state is what the future of Lebanon depends on, according to Lebanese Ambassador Fakhri Sag­hiyeh. 
Saghiyeh spoke in celebration of Lebanon's thirty-ninth year of in­dependence, last night at the Center for Continuing Education. 
Saghiyeh referred to Palestinian presence in Lehanon as the single most important cause of conflict in Lebanon, saying, "As soon as the foreign armed elements were removed from Beirut, the Lebanese people were able to express them­selves freely." 
Seghiyeh said unless Lebanon develops its own system to guard against outside forces from interfer­ing in its international affairs, it is certain that further explosions will occur in the future. 
A brighter future for Lebanon depends on a change in the pattern of political issues. According to Seg­hiyeh, the issues before the state 



ROTC establishes new commitment rules 
By HOLLY ANN HINSHAW 
News Staff 
The Reserve Officers Training Corps has set stronger requirements for students on scholarships by es­tablishing new dates for students dropping from the program without having a commitment to the govern­ment. 
Congress and the department of defense made the decision this fall to have ROTC students pledge their committment to the program at the end oftheir freshman year instead of their sophomore year. 
Under the new decision, a student commiting to the program will con­tinue to receive ROTC money and will he required to serve in the military for four years :;,fter gradua­tion. 
Having the commitment at the end of the sophomore year has caused problems for both ROTC of­ficials and the government because students join ROTC for two years and drop out, getting two years paid effect those people applying for army scholarships for the academic year 1983-84. This also will affect seniors in high school who are now applying. 
tuition  with  no  military  commit­ 
ment.  
The  head  of the  Army  ROTC  

The decision was made to move the deadline up because the govern­ment was losing a large amount of money and there was also a large number ofdelinquencies. 
Many dropouts give the reason of finding another means to finance their education, or the fact that they do not want to commit four years of their lives in the military. 
The process for an ROTC student to drop out of the program consists of the student writing a letter to the head of the department indicating their wish to drop. He then will dis­cuss this intention with the student before permission is given for the student to drop the program. 
Turgeon feels this drop-out pro­cedure should be tougher for those with scholarships because of the large amount ofmoney that is lost by the government. 
All three ROTC services are attempting to decrease the number of drop-outs. Turgeon feels the 


Marine Patrol Officer David Hoagland guards the seized 70-ft. fishing vessel Indominable at the U.S. Coast Guard Station In Boot­bay Harbor, Maine. Authorities raided the vessel and seized an es­timated 20-30 tons ofmarijuana, some ofwhich lays on the deck beside the boat. (AP Photo) 
The Notre Dame Student Union is IOokmg tor TEACHERS tor 

Free Universi 

"an opportunity to share your interest" 
GET INVOLVED!!! 


r.2~!u~.~~ ::)
IZECNIWI -t:AIITtJIIEU-MIEIII:AII CHUCK WHITE
• * 
At The Piano Bar 
See Chuck every Wed. Fri. & Sal. 
~:011 p.m.-1:00 ll.m .....t:njo) l.il'~! 
•Dancing• Drinks• Dinger 
• Hospital(!) • Reasona ..Price' 
Lunch Special $1.99 to $4.28 

Dinner Specials: Seafood Platter $1.98 Pork rriecl Bice $1.00 Chicken Chowmein $S.SO 
"'The Best Chinese Food )'"(Ju 've'EverHad" 
HOURS· 0PEN7 DAYS 

MJn·TI"'uf 11<l0am 10·00pm AWEEK en & Sat. 11:30 a.m ·1 1:00pm Sun. & Holidays 4 p.m.-9:00p.m. 130 DillE IWY. SOITH 
>ioppy Hour 5-7 P M SOUTH IEID(Ieselal4) 
BUQU£1 ROOMS & lle1t to lallllll'-; IL, 
CiROUPRAnS 
AVAIUIU 272-7376 


department, :\tajor Roy W. Turgeon, . military is a "public service and they said the new commitment plan will arc trying to act accordingly." 
Reagan eyesfuture U.S.-Soviet dialogue
WASHINGTON (AP) -The lingncss to improve relations, Shultz Reagan Administration is ready to cited arms control talks now under­explore ways to improve U.S.-Soviet way in Geneva, talks in Vienna to relations, but won't be swayed by reduce East-West troop strength in the "mood music" emanating from Europe and the human rights con-the Kremlin's new leadership, ference in Madrid. 
Secretary of State George P. Shultz said yesterday. 
Shultz, at a news conference, said the United States was ready for a "careful, thoughtful" dialogue with the Soviets. He added, however, "The important thing is a change in behavior" on their part. 
Shultz and Vice President t George Bush met Monday with the new should be the establishment of a modern secular state. 
Seghiyeh also said the relationship between Lebanon and the Arab World should be on an institutional basis, rather than a personal one. Lebanon's approach to the Arab­Israeli conflict should be measured by Lebanon's national interests and not by pressures to which Lebanon may be subjected. 
Seghiyeh also stressed the need for Lebanon to build a national army, which is capable of maintaining law and order and deterring any aggres­sion against its borders. 
He emphasized the need for those of Lebanese descent all over the world to become actively involved in aide to Lebanon through charitable organizations, the media, personal contact with government officials and various other forms. 
Concerning democracy, Seghiyeh insisted that "Without a democratic regime in Lebanon with which every citizen can identify, defend, and make sacrifices for, no other form of government will be able to solve Lebanon's problems." 
Lebanon's economy, too, must in­corporate a more balanced distribu­tion ofwealth. 
"Without economic justice, there will alway~ be fertile ground for demagogues and agitators," he said. 
One hopeful sign cited by Seg­hiyeh is the rise of the value of the Lebanese pound ...twenty percent against the ll.S. dollar in recent weeks. 
Regarding administration, Seg­hiyeh stressed the need for radical reform, with emphasis on public services instead ofabusive power. 
Seghiyeh also stressed the need for the incorporation of a com­prehensive development plan to be put into effect as soon as possible. Much attenrion must be paid to scientific research. In education, more emphasis should be placed on vocational training, on the market needs for new jobs, and on better managerial skills. 
Seghiyeh closed by saying that the withdrawal of all non-Lebanese forces from the country is the most urgent need of all. Once this comes about, Lebanon can concentrate on rebuilding itself. 
"Tens of thousands of people were killed, extensive damage in­curred on our cities and villages, but we have never lost faith or hope," said Seghiyeh. "We will continue to sacritke for our dignity and our honor, for we intend to remain alive and free." 


Soviet Communist party chief, Yuri 
PABST._~.;--~ ,..~AMCHATKA:1
Andropov, while in Moscow for the 
--~~-:~ VODKA

funeral of Leonid Breznhev. He said they were received with "great 
599 -·~~ ~) 799 It--·
courtesy." 
I_\ 1\._ ~~ .Jt -~~~li 

24·120Z.CANS 1 75 LITER
'=....f.~~f _

"Some people say that's a signal and perhaps it is," Shultz said. But he added that deeds, not rhetoric, will 
JACK . M JIM BEAM 
signal Moscow's desire for improved relations. 


DANIELS ,. BOURBON_.~ 
"We look for changes in behavior or indications ofa willingness to dis­

699 999 ~~!::~~ 
cuss them," Shultz said. "We have said we are willing to do so." 
750 ML. 1.75 LITER ''-'';_~ 
Shultz said there should be a recognition that the problems be­
GALLO 
ZONIN ASTletween the two countries "on the 
PREMIUMS
whole are problems that they (the Soviets) have created ...But we are 
499 ,{..,
299
ready to get in and discuss and try to 
.......
work •hings out in a careful, 
750 ML. -~~ 
thoughtful way." As examples of places where the Soviets can demonstrate their wil­...............~ -:.. .....·.. ·.~;: ... -,·. ...•~.-: / ... 

·• I 
-~
,, 
,; 
f 
I 

,~ 
"'·~ 
IJtj 
1~: 
:'1._, 
l 





..r--·---...._----~ -----------------. 
-------------------------------------·----· ---------------­
The Observer 
Friday, November 19, 1982 -page 4 
Walton league report 
Acid rain problem spreading 



Acid rain is rainfall which has a pH value below that ofthe normal level 
( 5.6 pH) found in ordinary rainfall. The acidity of the rain is caused by sulfur and nitrogen oxides generated by coal-burning generators, industrial smelters and automobiles which combine with oxygen in the atmosphere to produce acids. These acids return to earth in the form of acidic rain or snow and as dry particles. Some of this atmospheric acid is neutralized by ammonia gas in the air and by par· tides of cultivated soil on the ground. Whatever wet or dry acidic precipitation is not neutralized, however, collects in open water sources, on buildings, and in fields where it does severe damage to crops. 
Carpenter said there isn't enough research being done on acid rain to warrant definitive conclusions about the danger ofacid rain. 
"Despite all the noise that is being made there is very little research money available for acid rain," he said. "There's a tremendous amount written about acid rain, but you find that it's almost entirely rehash. These authors are not reporting results of new research they have done they're rehashing the results of a very few people who have actually done research on acid 
rain." 
Despite the difficulties in explor­ing the problem, Dr. Carpenter believes that more controls should be implemented to prevent the dan­gerous effects ofacid rain, but warns that there is not much hope of seeing this happen under the cur­rent administration. 
"From a research standpoint, it's 

kind of a political football right 
now," Carpenter said. "The Reagan 
Administration's official position is 
that we need more research before 
we can conclude anything. In terms 
of programs already in effect, there's 
almost nothing being done." 
Carpenter also pointed out the 

huge impact acid rain could have on 
the region around South Bend. 
"The potential damage to ter­restrial forests and croplands here is very great," he said. He added that the Ohio River Basin Environment Study recently concluded that potential crop losses from acid rain in the Ohio River Valley could be bil­lions of dollars, and that "in an area like ours, with Gary, Indiana upwind of very productive cropland, similar impacts could occur." 
Even though he said scientists 

simply do not have enough con­
clusive information about acid rain 
and its effects on humans and their 
environment, Carpenter thinks that 
acid rain is an ecological threat of 
great magnitude. 
"As far as the environment goes, 

the potential damage is enormous," 
he said. "This could be by far the 
most serious environmental 
problem, with the possible excep­
tion of nuclear war, that we face at 
this time." 
.Mass 

continuedfrom page 1 
"Many people got into the spirit of things and participated," said Erin Flood, student coordinator. 
Flood said, "I think it was a very enlightening experience for both fasters and non-fasters. The Saint Mary's community unified during the 24-hour period." 
While no definite totals are available, Flood promised that a public letter will be sent to students in December. The letter will contain information on the amount of money raised and the charities it will be given to. Flood stressed that all the money collected will be used for charities. 
ByJOE INCARDONA 
News Staff 

The lzaak Walton League, a major nationwide conservation group, issued a report last week stating that the threat ofacid rain to the environ­ment was no longer confined to the Northeast, but has developed into a problem affecting most of the United States. 
The report, based on findings ob­tained by the group from the En­vironmental Protection Agency, indicates that large areas of the South, Southeast, and mountainous West are in danger of damage from acid rain. The issue had previously been regarded in political circles as a subject ofdebate only in the heavi­ly industrial Northeast region of the country.. 
In reaction to the Walton League's charge that the acid rain problem is now one of national concern, Dr. Steve Carpenter of Notre Dame's Biology Department said the state­ment is difficult to prove because of the lack of substantial scientific research on acid rain. 
"You see reports ofacid rain from all over," said Carpenter. "The trouble is that these data are very hard to interpret. In most cases we don't have good historical data for rainfall pH, so we don't really know whether this (data on acid rain) represents a change or a trend." 


The Observer Friday, November 19, 1982-page 5' 
Wins car, money 
Student -wins Chrysler contest 
By DAN MCCULLOUGH 
StaffReporter 
You won't find Kevin Williams on the shuttle bus for awhile. The Holy Cross resident h~ solved part ofthe Chvsler Pcntatstar Challenge and will soon be seen driving around the campus in a new Plymouth Turismo. He will also share a 55000 scholar­ship and a S5000 grant with a stu­dent from the University of 



U A W, Chrysler reopen contract negotiations 
DETROIT (AP) -The United Auto Workers and Chrysler Corp. said yesterday they are reopening talks in an attempt to end a strike by 10,000 Canadians and work out an immediate new contract for 43,200 
U.S. employees. 
The Canadians, who have been on strike for two weeks, are demanding an immediate pay raise, which Chrysler says it can't afford. Earlier this fall, Chrysler workers in the 
United  States  made  the  same  
demand  and  rejected  a  tentative  
contract over the issue.  

U.S. Chrysler workers remained on the job and voted to resume bargaining in January, but UAW president Douglas A. Fraser said yes­terday "if there is any hope at all of reaching a settlement before the turn ofthe year, it has to he done this way simultaneously." 
In the Cnited States, 4,600 Chrys­ler workers have been laid off be­cause ofcurtailed production due to the Canadian strike. 
Contract talks in Canada, which broke off Nov. 5 when the srrike ~tarred. will start Saturday in Toronto, while U.S. talks. which broke offOct. 18, will begin Monday at Chrysler's Highland Park, Mich., headquarters. union officials said. 
"There's a chance. there's an op­portunity" that new contracts will be reached, Fra.~er said at a new con­terence following a two-hour me:-eting of union bargainers. 
'I just llgure that the:-dog is hur­ting a linle more now with the tail being ~queezed and now the body is. ~tarting to get involved and I think the head i" startin!! to look, so maybe there is" more money that the com­pam will offer, said Robert White, director of the Canadian UAW. 
"We are hopeful that the meetings will be fruitful." Thoma.~ Miner. Chrysler vice president of industrial relations, said in a Matement. 
Fraser said the union in Canada and the 1· nited States continues to demand an immediate pay raise. 
Fraser said the UAW decided to go back to bargaining after Chrysler Vice Chairman Gerald Greenwald said earlier this week that the two sides should not wait-until after the holidays to resume talks. 
Miner said Wednesday the com­pany will not make a new economic offer. 
Fra.~er would not predict when that would be, how long the talks will last or whether they will go through the Thanksgiving holiday. 
Canadians will remain on strike until a new contract has been ratified. according to White. 
Canadians will push for wages Michigan. who simultaneously solved the same riddle. 
With no real backround in the area, Williams found the correct answers in the music category. Using a computer to solve complex algebra equations. the sophomore math major decoded the hidden riddle contained in the calendar af­ter only 6-8 hours ofworking at it. 
"He was real excited," said Terry Bland, Williams' roomate. "He called 

equal in buying power to those of 
U.S. workers, Fraser said. Currency translation differences now put Canadian workers behind their U.S. counterparts. 
Chrysler autoworkers in both countries make an average S9.07 an hour in wages. Because of currency translation, Canadian workers get the equivalent of S'7.48 U.S. 
Chrysler earned S266.6 million so far this year. mostly from the sale of its defense subsidiary. From 1979 to 1981, the automaker lost $3.27 bil­lion. 
everyone." 
After reading about the contest in The Observer, Williams bought the calendar and "tried a few things until he saw something," Bland said. "He's the kind of guy that can do some­thing like that," he added. "He's sharp.'' 
The calendar featured live seperate puzzles, in the areas of music, math, literature, chemistry. and <;omputer science, and are sold only in college bookstores. 
"But anyone can buy it and submit answers," explained Lon Hurwitz, of the Chrysler promotional depart­ment. 
Although he had very little formal training in music, Williams claims that "it didn't require any deep musi­cal knowledge." 
The Notre Dame bookstore reported all the calendars sold out following last week's Observer ar­ticle on the contest, but they reor­dered more so other Notre Dame students can attempt to solve the riddles in the other four areas. 
"Sales are going really well," one bookstore spokesperson said. 
Both entries were submitted with a postmark having a date that coincided with a full moon, a re­quirement for the contest, Chrysler said. 

This week at 
The NAZZ 
Friday, Hov. 1 9 Comedy with: GREG MARTIH ·a very funny guy )OHH FORYT Sat., Hov. 20 ,..SHAPE SHIFTER II" -written & 
I 
I I I I I 

9:oo 1 
I 
10:301 
9:30 

presented by David Pierson Garrick )ACK GALLAGHER 
10:30 

THE PAUL MITCHEL GROUP 
A great weekend at THE NAZZ!!! 
CALL TODAY FOR GUARANTEED RESERVATIONS 
Clip and save this schedule for easy travel planning! To O'Hare From O'Hare 
LEAVE This Col. ThiS Col. ARRIVE NOTRE Chicago Chicago NOTRE DAME Time Time DAME BUS ARRIVE LEAVE BUS SHELTER O'HARE O'HARE SHELTER 
4:30a.m. 6:10a.m. 8:30a.m. 12:0D p.m. 6:30a.m. 8:15a.m. 10:30 a.m. 2:00p.m. 8:30a.m. 10:15 a.m. 12:30 p.m. 4:00p.m. 10:30 a.m. 12:15 p.m. 2:30p.m. 6:0D p.m. 12:30 p.m. 2:15p.m. 4:30p.m. 8:00p.m. 2:30p.m. 4:15p.m. 6:30p.m. 10:00 p.m. 4:30p.m. 6:15p.m. 8:30p.m. 12:00 a.m. 6:30p.m. 8:15p.m. 11:00 p.m. 2:30a.m. 
SOUTH BEND TIMES UNLESS OTHERWISE INDICATED. EFFECTIVE 1!1/31 /82. CALL FOR COMPLETE LIST OF PICKUP POINTS & TIMES. 
FOR RESERVATIONS 
(119) 155-3068 
OR CALL YOUR 
TRAVEL AGENT. 
~ 
Dan Harris works at selling some ofthe many pieces ofpottery he has made in the Old Field House. Harris is selling his pottery across campus as Christmas gifts. (Photo by Scott Bower) 

7 GAMEROOM TOKENS 
·(regularly .25 ea.) 
40 GAMEROOMTOKENS 
offer expires 12/31/ 82 
Try: 

Joust Donkey Kong  Ms. Pac-Man Moon Patrol  
Oix  Zaxxon  Tron  Dig Dug  
Robotron  Frogger  Tempest  Centipede  

.......... ; ....... Putt-Putt Golf &Games ............. 259-4171 3615 N. Main Mishawaka 
(take Angela to Edison , 2 miles to Main 

Learning that you're better than Name you think you are. And finding out how to work Street with others. Come join us on a 3-week trip 

City State Zip 
ofexcitement and self-challenge. School
You may come back a better you. 

Check the courses that interest you: 
Canoeing _ Desert Expeditions
WhiteWater 
Rafting 
Wildemes~ 

Sailing Backpacking 
Cycling 
Mountaineering ­

Outward Bound, Dept. CH. 384 Field Point Rd. Greenwich. CT 06830 Phone toll free (800) 243-8520 
No experience necessary Outward Bound admits students ofany sex, race, color and national or ethnic origin. We are a nonprofit organization. Scholarships available. 
\'U>~o 
f. • ;::.. 
:;; 1.
11'co

0'-. '? utward Bouncr
~~~ The course that never ends 




I 
----~­
I 


The Observer 
! 
f 


Workers stand near some ofthe sixty-fivepilot whales stranded in a marsh area on Lieutenant Island near Wellfleet, Mass., Wed­nesday. The whales stranded themselves Tuesday night and by Wednesday abouthalfweredead. (APPboto) 
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES AVAILABLE FOR THANKSGIVING -BREAK on 5 Day Rentals e Rates available until Nov. 24, 1982 Rates beginning at $85 
These rates are non-discountable. Cars must be returned to renting location. 
Notre Dame /Saint Mary's Theatre Presents 
ThrzMaid~ 
byJean Genet November 12.13.18.19.20·8pmWashington Hallon Notre Dame·s campus $3.00 General Admission $2.50 Students·SeniorCitizens· Faculty·Staff Opening Night: 2 for the pricecf 1! For information call284-4626 

Friday, November 19, 1982-page 6 
Vlastos lecture 

Plato gave w-omen equality 
By AMY STEPHAN 
News Staff 

ln Plato's time, women of Athens were denied education and political rights, were legal wards of their nearest male relative and prostitu­tion was the one form of gainful emplo)·ment outside of the home which they were allowed, according to Professor Gregory Vlastos. 
Despite these extreme prejudices, Plato decreed women of the guardian class an equal place in his ideal society, Vlastos said last night in his lecture, "Was Plato a Feminist?" 
According to Vlastos, Plato ex­hibited feminist views in Book V of "The Republic." 
"In that work alone of all classical works there is a vision of a secular society in which the personal rights of an individual are not denied on the basis ofsex," Vlastos said. 
Vlastos noted that there seems to be a contradiction in Plato's at­titudes. He said Plato implied that the average intelligence ofwomen is lower than that of men and women are less able to resist fear or exercise self-control. 
Vlastos said, however, "Prisoner of sexist stereotype that Plato was, he could imagine women in the hig­hest order of society as being capable of taking on an equal role with men." 
Plato's motivation in this theory was not the elevation ofwomen, but the possibility ofa more just society. Vlastos said Plato's motivation for 

Newpathway to ai LeMans students 
By SCOIT HARDEK 
News Staff 

The construction ofa sidewalk from the LeMans parking lot to the west entrance ofLeMans will cut down the distance students have to walk to the hall, according to Don Lindower, controller and business manager at Saint Mary's College. 
The new sidewalk was the result of a meeting between Lindower and a number of other department heads earlier this year. It was decided that the current layout ofwalkways behind LeMans did not allow the residents a route home that did not involve walking along the road. Since maintenance could not clear such a direct route over the lawns, a new sidewalk was the solution. 
A campus committee is currently studying pedestrian traffic at Saint Mary's. Lindower said sidewalk planning on the campus needs to be revised. 
iKntglJts nfQtnlmnbus 
sponsors a 
1st DEGREE 
Sunday, November 21 at 12:30 All interested are invited For more information call239-7018 
Coat and tie Requested 
Kof C Hall 



NO WAY JOSIPit·
HEY G.411G 
Nar WHf._, WE
GOING TO 
C.4H GI?TA SECOHI>
THE' HOCKEY 
GYROS AT UAL.F . PRICE. WEMY 
~E?_HUH? 
f:VEN OBSE~E 'fl-4~ ~TIIUTIC CofJTEST. 
<LAS'S I( 
<<>H~Y ~$
Att_. 
~AKLAVA 
TOOl 
extending rights to women was to give all persons, especially those most talented, the opportunity to best contribute to society. 
"To call Plato an advocate of women's liberation would be grotesque," said Vlastos. Plato was opposed to liberty for both men and women, according to Vlastos. 
"Plato's ideal was excellence and he saw liberty as the enemy ofexcel­lence," said Vlastos. 
"The topic of this address has been a hot topic ofscholarly inquiry in recent years" as well as an area of extreme disagreement, Vlastos said. 
Vlastos will continue his lecture series this afternoon at 3:30 in the Library Auditorium. 
Baby's liver transplant failing 
PITTSBURGH (AP) -An In­dianapolis baby's transplanted liver is not functioning properly, and his family's attorney launched an appeal late yesterday afternoon for another donor to be found within 24 hours. 
One-year-old Wesley Wright un­derwent 13 hours of surgery Tues­day night and Wednesday morning at Children's Hospital in Pittsburgh where the liver of an unidentified child in North Dakota was implanted in him. 
Like all transplant patients, W es­ley was listed in crticial condition while doctors waited to see whether his body's natural defenses would accept the new organ or attack it. 
But late yesterday afternoon, Mar­tinsville attorney Carl Salzmann said Wesley's liver was not functioning. Doctors planned to use some drugs to activate the liver, but also would look for another donor within the next 24 hours, Salzmann added. 
Wesley's liver was deformed by biliary artesia, a condition where the liver lacks the ducts necessary to carry the bile from the liver to the small intestine. The disease strikes one in about 10,000 babies and they normally do not live past their second year. 

,..,......~..,..r-e~· ...........,..~~..,.. ....
i WORDSYSTEMS i i Secretarial/ \ i Word Processing Services i 
~ Experienced secretaries, ~ i modern equipment affordable ~ r typing: research manuscriptsil(term papers, theses, articlesli J books for publication). ~ iResumes. Student discounts. \ ~pel/ing corrections. [ \ (219) 272-8355 Ji Free pick-up and delivery i 
.,...........,.........~..,... .............~.........,...,1 
~0 C Happy Hour: 
:  Come Watch  ~  
:  Air Force  :  
-tc..  Get Bombed at  1l..  
:  Sr. Bar  ~  

: Free Beer with ~ : $2cover : 

...._",.~·-··-,~--'-'K--~_u_-..;..~Jtt__: .._.~-'""""'-J· ~-7iRa~!a~xZa
__.... .. ;.·!-~-·-·~~~ 


Editorials 
Friday, November 19, 1982-page 7 
The Contraception Question 

The issue of birth control has special sig­nificance at Notre Dame because of its Catholic ideology and its leading place as an institute of higher learning. Religious doctrines command us to take a negative view ofany type ofartificial birth control. 
Randy Fahs Friday Analysis 
But, as a university dedicated to freedom of thought and action, as well as a responsibility to attept lO alleviate the world's demographic and social prohlems, we cannot reasonably and rationally cast a completely unfavorable light on the subject. What is surprising to me is that up until now this issue has been almost invisible at this university. while it continues to fuel debate in most of the rest ofthe world. 
If one takes a look at our world with its finite resources and an ever-increasfng population, it is easy to see that we are on a collision course. Natural birth control met­hods, as endorsed by the Church, have not been effective in reducing this threat.. It is cer­tainly an unwise decision to fail to acknowl­edge the problem and rely on future technological discoveries to solve it. Artificial birth control methods, and education about their use, have curtailed the population exlo­sion in South Korea and the People's Republic ofChina. 
In Latin America, where the hold of the Church is much stronger and the use of con­traceptives has not taken hold to a large de­gree, the people are experiencing the highest · population growth rates in the world. Health conditions are dism.al and food supplies arc sparse. One has to ask the question. "Isn't it more logical, humane, and Christian to prevent births through artificial contracep­tion, than it is to let these children be born so that they can face a slow and agonizing death by starvation?" 
We are living in age of immense sexual freedom. The numbers of unplanned preg­nancies are staggering. What is morally wrong about preventing the birth of an unwanted child through the use of artificial contracep­tion, even if it would receive adequate nutri­tion and health' care one might ask? 
If a child is unwanted, then it is being brought into this world with a tremendous strike against it. The child cannot help but bear emotional and psychological scars throughout its life. A child who is born into a stable home situation with loving and ap­preciative parents is given one ofthe greatest headstarts that one can think of If this comes about through the use ofcontraceptives, then is there a fault to be found? 
It is important to educate people on this topic and deal with it on a frank and unemo­tional level. Excesses and emotionalism on each side are far more damaging than an in­formed choice one way or another. It is im­portant that we take the voodoo mysticism and the mythological perfection out of sex. Victorian ideals and psychological taboos are as damaging to a person's attitude on sex as an unwanted pregnancy. 
There are two important things that should come out in discussions on contraception and sex: One is a greater understanding of the ramifications, responsibilities, and the meanings ofeach to the individual. The other is the realization that it is a personal decision on the part of the individual. It is fine to dis­agree with decision in one way or another, but it is a closed-minded ignoramus who will act differently towards, or condemn a person for his or her decision. 
Tragi_cT.V. addiction? 
The final tragic bdl has rung. The last round little question that CBS and !\IBC fought for is over for a heroic athlete. Duk Koo Kim is hoxing matches when football players walked dead, and boxing is once again under seigc. away from America's most-watched televised 
There arc those saying that television is the sport. Both networks offered hoxing virtually culprit, and that indirectly means that you and every weekend, where normally they'd have I must shoulder the guilt. aired football. 
There is also little question that some bouts were out-and-out mismatches, staged solely
Skip Desjardin 
for the cameras. The Ayub Kalule-Mike McCal­lum match on CBS is probably the best ex­On the Media ample ofthis. Butthis fight was legitimate. This fight was a hrawl, a street-fight, and pitted two evenly· 
Bob Arum, the wealthy promoter, says the matched boxers against each other. Unfor­sport should be suspended. a "blue-chip medi­tunately, this fight ended in tragedy. cal panel" established to investigate, and Again, who is to blame? protective equipment mandated. The networks must be held responsible ifit 
NBC News questioned the propriety of is discovered that precautionary measures short-notice scheduled fights, and pointed an were not taken, or that the safety of fighters accusing finger at CBS and, to a lesser extent, was compromised for the sake of rating its own sports department. Is television really points. to blame, though? But as sports-hungry television viewers, we 
Kim was the Oriental and Pacific Boxing must look at our own priorities. It is pressure Federation champion, and gave WBA from us, as viewers, that prompts rash action lightweight champion Ray "Boom Boom" in the pursuit of high ratings. It was our ab­Mancini the toughest fight ofhis young career. solute demand for alternate programming in 
But there are many people questioning Kim's the face of the football strike that led to these credentials, and the haphazardly scheduled abuses. fight in the first place. Are we that addicted to the tube? Have our 
Burt Sugar, the publisher of The Ring weekends become so uneventful that we real­magazine says of Kim's crown: "That and a ly need something -anything -from the nickel will get you a cup of hot Saki." networks to keep us occupied? 
A CBS official, informed of claims that the These are questions that must be explored. fight was arranged hastily to fill programming By the same token, our value system must be voids left by the NFL strike, said flatly: "That is looked at seriously. As much as we want to a palpable lie." deny it -to dismiss it out ofhand -we may 
But where does the truth lie? indeed be ultimately responsible for the Probably somewhere-in between. There is tragedy last week in Las Vagas. 
P.O. Box Q 
In praise of Yale Uniuersity 
DearEditor: 
cials ofour University to take a similar one. Recently, Yale University announced that 
Sincerely, 

it will continue to provide financial aid to 
Michael DeWeert, 
students whose Federal financial aid had 
Physics Dept. 

been denied for failing to register for the draft. I would like to see this action repeated at universities nationwide, particularly here Editor's Note: Letters should be brief and 
at Notre Dame. deal with specific issues. They must be typed 
Conscription is not consistent with either and bear the address, telephone number and a free conscience or a free people. We can­signature of the author. Initials and pseudo­not be truly free ifsubject to involuntary ser­nyms are not acceptable. Reproductions, 
vitude; and a conscript army, a slave army, carbOn copies, or letters addressed to per­cannot fight for anyone's freedom. sons other than the editor are not accept­I applaud Yale's stand, and urge the offi-able. All letters are subject to editing. 

P.O. Box Q 
Misinterpreting the Bomb 
DearEditor: both because he did not understand its spe­
I did not attend the lecture on nuclear cial nature, and because it had a different arms and related matters delivered by firing mechanism than the Bomb dropped Everett Mendelsohn, the Harvard historian earlier in New Mexico. Thus nobody could of science. Judging from the account of that be certain tht it would detonate and impress event in The Obseroer (Nov. 12 ), I did not anyone. miss much. More important, had the President known 
Prof Mendelsohn is cited as having that the Bomb would go off and would be claimed that President Truman dropped the fearsomely destructive he would ha t ve had Atomic Bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki no motive to want the Russians in the Far primarily "to gain prestige and unparalleled Eastern war at all. Finally, if he was con­world power rather than to save American cerned with intimidating the Russians lives...." This is one of those hoary myths would he have allowed American conven­concocted by the New Left and repeated tional military strength to ebb catastrophi­endlessly by those who regularly discover cally in 1946-7? that anything unpleasant that takes place As for Prof. Mendelsohn's assertion that anywhere is the fault ofthe United States. "fear has been at the base of nuclear 
To start with, whatever his faults, Harry strategy" -what else is new? Nations, Truman was an exceptionally forthright and anytime, anywhere, build all kinds of candid man. He always insisted that his weapons either to further some aggressive motive was the obvious one: to save design or from fear that other nations may Amcricam lives. In retrospect, there is no have such designs against themselves. doubt whatever that the Bombs did save un­The claim that "the Russians learned the told American ana Japanese lives. value of using the Bomb for politically per­
Military estimates at that time considered suasive purposes" only from President Ken­that the successful invasion and conquest of nedy during the Cuban Missile crisis Japan would cost 1,000,000 American indicates that Prof. Mendelsohn must indeed casualties. Considering how many Japanese spend his time studying the history of had already been killed in conventional U.S. science rather than the history of Russia or air raids the Japanese toll, military and the history ofinternational relations. civilian, likely would have been several One wonders how much money was times as high. spent so an ND audience might listen to such 
Of course one can reply that politicians a melange ofplatitudes and nonsense? are not to be believed. Be that as it may, the case does not depend primarily on believing Yours Sincerely, President Truman. It is most unlikely t8at he BernardNorling dropped the Bcmb to impress the Russians, History Dept. 
.---Tb.-~-­··_ -e -~~----·er~­. .-~1'--V! . ----­ Editorial Board  Department Manage':S  
"J/,,· ()/",.,., . ..,. ~~ an indepcnJen: nt·w,pJpt-r puhl"hni by the >tudent> of thc ·ntH·r,tty of Notre .D.tme du !....-.tnd SJint M.try·, <.olk·.~:e. It does Pot nlu·,,Jrdy rdl<\1 the roltlf('\ of the adrlltf1i,trJtiOit oi nther institution. The nL"w' ,, rcport t·.l J\ .t.. urJtd)· and .t~ ohJt't"d)o' J' po,,tbk. h!.tonJls rt'j're~ent the optnion oi ,1 m.qortty ofthe FJttortJI Bo.Hd. Cl>oHtnl'ni.Htt"'· O('inions Jn.l lctll'rs .Ht' thl' new, of thtu author~. ( olumn ~('J,c '' .l\".ul.thk ll> .til •nt·mht·r, ot the <Otnrnuntty. JnJ tht· frec exprc,s•un oi \"Jt)'lll£ opin1ons on ..:ampu>. through leuc:r>, •~ en..oungeJ. P.O.Hox Q. Notre l>amt·. IN -t(lt;S(l (! l9) !.~9-'HO.~ •  Editor-in-Chief.........._. .................. Michael Monk Managing Editor................Ryan Ver Berkmoes Executir•e Neu•s Editor.............. David Dziedzic SMC Executir•e Editor............Margaret Fosmoe .\ports Editor............................. _ .....Chris Needles Ellitorials Editor ............................. Paul McGinn Features Editor ...................................l'ari Brown Photo Etlil<1r ...................................Rachel Blount  BusinessManager-·········..-··-····--·······Tonr Aiello Controller ......................... , ........-..........Eric Schulz Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owen Production Manager.................. Maura Murphy Circulation Manager ··-······................. Ray ln~lin Systems Manager ················-··········Bruce Oakley Founded November 3, 1966  

--~---~·--··-r--._---~­
-·----.­


~~S tt0 W C 
(\ii_SiiiiiEiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.Friiiidailiy,iiiNoiiiveiiimbiiieriil9ii,19iiii82iiiiiipiiage-8 


A play fot all seasons 
Dobert Bolt's quietly stunning the end ofthe play. More finally ar­to get papal sanction for the divorce 
.1.'-PlayA Man ForAIISeasons (first ticulateswhat is inevitable: at his tri­Henry VIII wants. Brian Manley is 
produced in London, 1960) remains al for treason he declares the case for the weak-wii!ed opportunist and 
a play for our time because the hero spiritual authority. Here Musumeci 
perjurer Master Richard Rich. ofthe play, Sir Thomas More, is a reveals the force ofcharacter that Charles Wylie is the sadistic Thomas quietly enduring figure for any time. we assume has been held in delicate 
Cromwell, agent ofthe King against 

English playwright Bolt was at· balance through the course of More. Robert Hall plays a colorfully 
tracted to More because of his More's struggle with human law. But dressed but colorless dignitary, 
"adamantine sense of his own self." there is no struggle with the self 
Thomas Cramner, Archbishop of Bolt called More "a hero of More throughout must be a man of Canterbury. Paul joseph McLean is a poise and self-assurance. meddlesome Spanish Ambassador. James Robinson Musumeci's performance is apt for Bolt links the world ofMore and that aspect of More. 
sixteenth century intrigue to the audience via the Common Man, a
Surrounding More at the center is 
choric figure who plays within thetheQtte review a variety ofcharacters rt>presenting play variously as steward, boatman,

the spectrum of unheroic humanity.

selfhood." The twentieth century publican, jailer, and executioner,
Some arc loving and intimate mem­

perhaps even more so than the six­and who plays outside the play as 
bers of More's family circle; some

teenth can appreciate the value of commentator who taunts the
are devious manipulators of More's

heroes (there being so few ofthem) audience with his scornful insights
political downfall. For dramatic

and the importance ofself-identity on common humanity. Bolt wanted
economy, Bolt reduces More's con­

(there being so many external the Common Man not to represent
siderable family to his second wife

forces that drain the energy of the vulgar humanity but to indicate
Lady Alice More and his oldest
self.) 
"that which is common to us all."
daughter by his first marriage, Lady 

This weekend the Notre Dame Gregory Hartmann is an excellent
Margaret More. There could be
Student Players present a well­Common Man in that sense of Bolt's
some tension between the uned­

designed and nicely paced produc­intention: at times witty, at times sly,
ucated Lady Alice and the cultivated

tion otA Man ForA II Seasons. The at times devious, overall leaving the
Lady Margaret. However, the Notre

design of the play depends on the impression ofan ambiguous super­
Dame production reduces much of

patterns and interactions of the iority. Indeed the Common Man is 
that tension, largely because Susan

characterizations and on the linkage superior to the illusion ofthe play, as 
Gosdick plays Lady Alice as stately 

ofthe characterizations with the we all are; and yet inside the illusion
and elegant as well as domestic and
audience. 
ofthe play the Common Man is final­
impertinent. Ms. Gosdick thus adds

joseph Musumeci plays Thomas ly More's executioner. That creates
stature to Alice that diminishes sug­

More. He is, ofcourse, the center of an interesting ironic comment on
gestions ofher envy ofMargaret.

the pattern. More must be firm yet unheroic humanity, including the
Robin Lee Brown is appropriately

modest, strong yet passive, a audience ofthe play.
accomplished but unassuming as

politician immediately, a saint ul­The set of this production is neat· 
Lady Margaret. As Will Roper, Mar­

timately. Musumeci plays up the ly done. Costumes are sixteenth
garet's fiance and eventually her

saint, plays down the lawyer. Even as century, but the set is relatively 
husband, jim Sears is an enthusiastic

he wrestles with the tangle of the bare, and thereby suggestive. It is
zealot offirst the Protestant cause,

law in "the tangle of his mind," as interesting to feel Chautauqua take
then the Catholic cause, but persis­

More says, Musumeci plays more the changing shape as Chelsea, 
tently loyal to More. The perfor­

man ofpoise and perspective than Hampton Court, the Tower of Lon­
mance by Sears adds zest and some

the intense wrestler. In his conflict don, and Westminster Hall. Working
humour to More's family circle. 

with Henry VIII, More is caught be­Into the columns of LaFortune, the tween his personal friendship with Tom Melsheimcr is effective as set designer,Joe Musumeci, ar­Henry and his responsibility as the Duke ofNorfolk, More's friend ranges further columns and screens statesman and father on the one who is by the circumstances ofState and a curtain behind a LaFortune hand, and the larger issuesofauthor­forced into playing inquisitor arch. The props are simple; a quill, a ity on the other hand. For More the against More. Melsheimer is the goblet, a carafe ofwine, a candle or authority of King and State comes in brusque and haughty English aris­two, a table, a few chairs, bell sounds conflict with the authority ofwhat tocrat, yet painfully aware ofthe role oftime, an executioner's ax. The More believed in as primary, the he plays against his friend. simple designs and angles ofthe 
authority ofa universal Church Outside the circle offamily and production create a universal space, (which for Bolt is a metaphor for friends of More gyrates an interest­not a limiting place. So A Man For cosmic authority). More plays with· ing gamut ofpolitical figures. The AllSeasons as presented by the in the law ofthe State so long as he cast conveys sharply the limitations Notre Dame Student Players is a play 
can evade a direct confrontation ofpeople controlled more by cir­for all seasons. The play, skillfully 
with the State and so protect himself cumstances and ambitions than by a directed by joe Dolan is produced and his family. Thus the rhythm of sense of the self. David Palladino is a by the Cultural Arts Commission of the play in part forces the actor foolish and pompous Henry VIII. the Student Union. See the play 
playing More to take a quiet way and Ken Scarbrough is a stumbling Car­tonight or tomorrow night at 8 p.m. assume a passive tone -until ncar dinal Wolsey, failing in his last efforts or Sunday at 2 p.m. in Chautauqua. 
Second City: SOmETHING WONDERFUL 

I
n 1955, a group ofyoung people subjects ofSomething Wonderful that everybody is interested in and opened a theatre in the back Right Away byJeffrey Sweet. we'll write better plays. The man in room ofa Chicago bar. The theatre In his preface, Sweet writes that the street obviously isn't in· was unlike any other in the world, his main reason behind writing the tercsted in the present theatre ... an it became the birthplace ofan book was to find a connection be­The audience will be able to drink entirely new form ofAmerican en­tween the common Second City and smoke during the perfor­tertainment. background ofmany well-known mance ... We won't use any sets 
celebrities and their achieve­or special lighting, and the casts 
ments. This is accomplished will be small. We'll need strong
DaveDvotak 
through a series ofcolorful inter­stories with a lot ofaction in them views with 30 ofthe most notable -songs, fights, games, and ora­products ofthe Second City, tions." including Alan Arkin, Joan Rivers, Staged onJuly 5, 1955, The
book ~eview 
Valerie Harper, Alan Aida, David Compass Players' first production The group ofyoung actors 
Steinberg, Rovert Klein, and Gilda was, according to author Sweet, called themselves The Compass, Radner. "the beginning ofa remarkable ex­and they based their theatre on im­Something Wonderful Right plosion ofcreative energy ... This provisation, the spur ofthe mo­Away begins with a vivid account was rich stuff for a city whose 
ment portray! ofsatiric scenes of ofthe history ofimprovisational theatrial life till then had consisted 
American life. They did not rely on theatre, from its humble begin· largely of recycled Broadway and a formal script; instead, they nings in Chicago in 1955 to its traditional stagings ofmuseum worked from a plot that had been popular present day status. The pieces by the Goodman Theatre." roughly outlined on some papers concept was originally the idea of The Compass disbanded in the backstage. producer David Shepherd, who to· winter of 1956-57, but in 1959, a 
The idea ofimprovisational gether with director Paul Sills, new improvisational comedy theatre later became the basis of launched The Compass Players. group opened in Chicago before a Chicago'slegendary Second City, a Shepherd' objective was to give packed house of 120, and proved comedy theatre which, even the theatre a more universal appeal to be an even greater success. The today, consistently attracts sellout by breaking away from traditional group was called The Second City, crowds; The history behind practices. a phrase taken from a deprecating Second City and the great As he outlined his plan in a 195 5 New Yorker magazine article about celebrities it has produced are the interview, "We'll put on a theatre Chicago. 
The Observer Features Section 
Friday, November 19, 1982-page 9 

Atouch of ciQSS 
D ichard Nixon, saidJohn Kennedy, lacked class. The sinned miserably against the canons ofclass when he .l.~hrase was like an epitaph on a man's character. brought hookers -ifhe ever did -to the Lincoln From that point on, ifKennedy was right, you could bedroom in the White House. During Vietnam, the rightfully worry about Nixon's salvation. God can campus protestors who painted the peace sign on forgive anything, you think, but a lack ofclass. In a religious statues were more passionate than classy. generation abounding with wimps and machos, you I'm as classless as a mugwump myself. But, could add relevance to the famous words ofSt. Paul to sometimes, imitating the good examplesofmy betters, l the Corinthians. delight myself. The classiest bunch at Notre Dame, for 
my money, is the Glee Club in concert on the stage. Five 
hours later, representatives of the group, wasted with
Rev. Robert Griffin 
beer, singing endless choruses of"Cigarettes and wild, 
wild women" are merely a yawn. Their style has left 
them, and they're a group ofkids who should have quit
letters to a lonely god while they still had sparkle. After a good night's sleep, 
they are as charismatic.as ever. There is a kind ofclass to 
"And now I will show you the best way ofall. bouncing back. 
"I may speak in tonguesofmenorofangels, but iflam Class means refusing to wear a blindfold when you're 
without class, I am a sounding gong or a clanging sym­being executed. Class means never whimpering in the 
bol ... I may have faith strong enough to move moun­ear ofsomeone who's got troubles ofhis own. Class 
tains, but ifI have no class, I am nothing ... means a willingness to give an advantage to your 
"Class is patient;class is kind and envies no one. Class enemy, because you have the courage to risk his getting 
is never boastful, nor conceited, nor rude; never selfish, ahead ofyou. Class means never taking advantage your­
not quick to take offense ... Class keeps no score of self, knowing you may be judged a wimp because you 
wrong ... There is nothing class cannot face ... There practiced restraint. Class means being patient when you 
are three things that last forever: faith, hope, andclass, see that you are cornered by dull people. Class means 
but the greatest ofthem all is class." being generous to the point o.f hurting when yours is 
The substitution almost works. Analogies, if pushed the only game in town, and no one will notice ifyou 
too far, tend to limp. Love may be described as God's play with loaded dice. Class is the way Fr. Hesburgh 
constant mood and the substance of His disposition; makes you feel important because you're a freshman. 
however, it would seem tasteless and unconvincing to Class is Father Burtchaell doing all things well. Class is 
write a metaphysics of Him as the Lord ofclass. Yet Dan Devine talking ofhis love for Notre Dame, the only 
Hemingway did as much in a short piece ofdrama he coach who ever moved me to tears with his sincerity. 
wrote ofthe crucifixion. A Roman soldier at the cross Class is defiance in face ofthe odds, a resistance ofthe 
on Good Friday keeps saying: "He was pretty good in humdrum; an insistence on marching to the beat ofno 
there today." He took a lot ofpunishment. He didn't man's drum but one's own, while still extending 
curse. He didn't complain. He kept his dignity. He was a reverence to the bugles and fifes playing the official 
kind ofhero. He had a lot ofclass. tunes. 
Class, like sanctifying grace, may be an enduring My family has this story ofourfamous ancestor, a Scot 
quality ofa person's soul, or it may be the flash of who fought with the Black Watch; for or against the 
elegance in a single act. Really classy people put the cause of Bonnie Prince Charlie, I don't remember 
poetry oflife into action. They are the saints of which. In fierce battle, this hardy Highlander (maybe he 
secularity, now that the gods have gone back to was a Low lander) lost both legs, which were blown off 
Olympus. Most ofus, fallen into the the tacky folk style at the knees. On bloodied stumps, the story goes, he 
of the counter-culture, are capable offlashes ofclass continued fighting until he had put fourteen enemy sol­
that zigzag across the darkness like lightning. In some diers out ofaction. Ifthe family history is true, I am the 
Catholic homes, from what I have seen, the habits of descendant ofa brave man. They should have written 
class are passed down, from one generation to another, on his tombstone: he had a lot ofclass. The engraved 
like the doctrines ofthe true faith. You can see it in a words would have been his written credential to sleep 
teenager, caught by surprise on a blind date with the among the great ones ofa rare breed. 
ugliest member ofthe opposite sex. "Blessed are the chaps with class," Jesus might have 
Kennedy said that Nixon lacked class. The Kennedy said. "They will be called the champions in a world of 
style often looks like class, although in my book, JFK also-rans." 
ffiiSSIONARY ptQys for comedy 

-THEATRE 

The tradition has been for the Student Players to produce a com­edy in the fall and a musical in the spring. In an attempt to modify tradition, the Student Players will be presenting Robert Bolt'sA Man ForAllSeasons. The historical circumstances ofthe play center on the events which led up to Henry VIII's divorce from Catherine of Aragon. Sir Thomas More is called upon to advise his friend, the king. The real debate ofthe play concerns the question ofloyalty, to one's self, to one's State and to one's God. The play, which has been in production since late September, will be presented this weekend only; tonight and tomorrow night at 8 p.m. and Sunday afternoon at 2 
p.m. in Chautauqua. Tickets are on sale at the Student Union Ticket Office for $2.50. Admission is 53 at the door. 
The relationship of master to slave, the role-playing oftwo ser­vants and the execution ofritual are a few ofthe subjects that jean Genet touches on in his one-act drama, The Maids. Based on an his­torical incident involving the death ofa mistress at the hands of her two maids, Genet explores the psychology ofthe "feudal" relation­ship between dominant and submissive forces. This, the second production in the Mainstage season of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre Department, departs from the realism and naturalism to which we as an audience are accustomed. It will be performed tonight and tomorrow night at 8p.m. in Washington Hall. Ticketsare S3 general admission, 52.50 for students, senior citizens and staff. 
•MUSIC 

The Saint Mary's College Music Department will present a weekend full ofvocal music. Starting on Saturday, the Indiana State Choral Festival will open, beginning at 9 a.m. continuing until 4:30 
p.m. Seven college choirs will perform individually, then at 4:30, the choirs will perform en masse. Three ad hoc choirs will be formed involving members ofthe various choirs. The schedule is as follows: 10 a.m., Saint Mary ofthe Woods; 10:30 Saint Mary's Women's Choir; 11 a.m. Huntington College Choir; 11:30 a.m. Western Michigan; 2:30p.m. Marion College; 3 p.m. Anderson College; 3:30p.m. Manchester College; and 4 p.m. Ad Hoc choirs. Admission is free. All performances are in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
jill Ann Daley will present an alto saxophone recital Sunday in the Little Theatre at~ p.m. The program will include "Dix Figures A Dan­ser" by Pierre :\lax Dubois. "Cantilene et Danse" by Marc Eychenne, "Sonata Op. 19" by Paul Creston and "Les Ecureuils" by Pierre Max Dubois. The recital is open to the public and there is no admission charge. 
Soprano Lucy Shelton, the only two-time winner ofthe coveted Walter W. Naumburg Foundation award, will perform tonight at 8 
p.m. in the Goshen College Union Auditorium. Selections will be from Franz Schubert, Olivier Messiaen and Charles Ives, and will be performed in German, French and English. A selection of"gypsy songs" by Anton Dvorak, Hugo Wolf andJohannes Brahms will con­clude the recital. Tickets are available at the Goshen College Rela­tions Office ( 533-3161 ). 
Tomorrow afternoon at 3:30p.m. the Goshen College Orchestra will present its fall concert in the Union Auditorium. Pieces to be performed are a contemporary British work, "Five Klee Pictures" by Peter Maxwell Davies, the overture from "The Magic Flute," a piano "Sarabande" by Debussy, orchestrated by Ravel and "Second Sym­phony in D Major" by Beethoven. Admission is free. 
•ART 

Two exhibitions open this evening in the Hammes, Little Theatre 
and Moreau Galleries at Saint Mary's College. Betsy Packard will ex­
hibit her works in plaster, wood and handmade paper. She holds a 
fine arts degree from the University ofIllinois and recently displayed 
her works at the Art Barn Gallery and theJack Rasmussen Gallery in 
Washington, D.C. Delores Milmoe, a three-dimensional painter, will 
show her works, described by the American Academy and Insititute 
ofArts and Letters as being"luminous abstractions." She holds a bac­
helor's degree from Dunbarton College. The Galleries are open from 
9:30a.m. to noon and 1 to 3 p.m. Monday through Friday, 1 to 3 p.m. 
Sunday and closed on Saturday. 
•MOVIES 

As usual, the Engineering and Annenberg Auditoriums are open for business. One ofthe top movies ofthe last few years, Absence of Malice, starring one ofthe film industries perennial favorites, Paul Newman, and the original "flying nun," Sally Field, will be shown in the Engineering Auditorium tonight and tomorrow night at 7, 9:1 5 and 11:30 p.m. 
The Friday Night Film Series will presentStroszek in the Annen­
berg Auditorium at 7:30p.m. This Werner Herzog film looks at the 
adventures of three misfits who follow the American Dream to Rail­
road Flats, Wisconsin to find TV football, CB radio and mobile 
homesteading. Admission is $2. 
•NAZZ 

Tonight comedian Greg Martin is going to attempt to tintillate you 
with his humor starting at 9 p.m. Following him at 10:30 isJohn 
Foryt on guitar. Tomorrow night, "Shapeshifter II" will be presented 
by David Pierson-Garrick at 9 p.m. Jack Gallagher will perform on 
guitar and harmonica at 9:30 with the Paul Mitchell Group to follow 
at 10:30 with their mellow sounds. The latter group has done some 
work with Kenny Loggins, by the way. 
I
t's difficult to talk about Michael Palin without mentioning just once that he is a member of"those British loonies" who call themselves Monty Python's Flying Circus. Let me get that matter over with right at the beginning ofthings. Palin's new movie, The Missionary, which he wrote, produced, and stars in, seems like an attempt to get away from that 
Dennis Chalifour 
movie review 
correlation. The humor involved seems much more akin to the Rip­ping Yarns television series he developed with fellow Python Terry Jones. Unfortunately, what worked for half an hour on television does not make it for ninety minutes on the big screen. 
Michael Palin is the Reverend Charles Fortescue, an Anglican Missionary who is returning to Lon­don after ten years ofservice in Africa. Upon arrival, he is given a new assignment by the Bishop (Denholm Elliott) -saving the souls offallen women. Phoebe Nic­hols (who you'll recognize as Cor­delia from PBS'sBrideshead Revisited) plays Fortescue's childhood sweethear<, Deborah Fitzbanks, a woman with a passion for filing and matrimony who has waited ten years for her fiance's retum. Deborah is concerned that the fallen women might have bruised knees. 
Maggie Smith plays Lady Ames, 
the more worldly woman in For­tescue's life. She is the woman responsible for financing For­tescue's home for fallen women and, in turn, leading Fortescue offthe path of the straight and narrow. As you may have already guessed, the young missionary is not able to cope with the temptation of his trade and soon succumbs t<> a more humanis­tic approach to brotherly love. This, in fact, ends up as the theme ofthe film; that is, what the world needs now is humanism, sweet humanism, not the castles and cathedrals ofthe upper class. Palin seems to be wearing his Oxford degree in His­tory on his sleeve. 
The theme offers a great deal of promise for some good Pyt­honesque humor, but Palin choo~es the road not taken and deem­phasizes the comedy of the picct:. What comes across is a somt:timc~ funny look at class dift~rences (the comedy is offered in spurt~ of various lengths) that never seems to have a fixed pointoffocus. The com­edy takes away from the drama while the drama takes away from the comedy, and the whole movie suf­fers from a terminal lack ofcontent. 
I do have to admit that Palin packages his t1lm rather nicely. The cinematography and set design is simply fabulous. It's all great to look at. One can only wish that Palin had taken some ofhis "pretty" money, 1nd hired someone to help him out with his script. 
That part ofthe Palin package that 
does work is his choice ofactors. 
"What we were trying to do was as­semble a cast ofexcellent actors with a sense ofacting rather than comedians with a sense ofacting." This much ofthe movie works. Trevor Howard is brilliantly comic in the role ofthe sadistic Lord Ames. Ames' idea ofhumanity is to offer a chain to the world's indigent population. Character actor Michael Hordern is responsible for the film's very best moments as a forgetful but­ler who continually gets lost in his master's mansion. 
Like Slatterthwaite the butler, however, Palin's film also suffers from a muddled sense ofdirection. The film is centrally comic yet we are constantly aware that nearly everyone involved in the film would rather it be a drama. Director Richard Loncraine (who recently garnered halfofthe Grand Prize at the Montreal Film Festival for his film, Brimstone and Treacle) mis­takenly concentrates on providing atmosphere first and foremost. By the end ofthe movie we're certainly convinced that we have just ex­perienced Edwardian London, but we haven't been doing too much laughing. 
I can only recommend The Missionary to those who might be able to catch it sometime on cable TV. There are several scenes you won't want to miss, but many more 

you won't want to pay for. Die-hard Michael Palin fans may not want to wait that longwhile die-hard Python fans will surely not be satisfied until they see Monty Python's The Meaning ofLife currently in production. 
~­


..­
THE IUKWITII THE CHEI­

~j)lJ,.tS:l:):~:=i=E3~=S==============================F=ri=da=y=,N=o=v=emT=be=r=I=9,=1=98=2===p=ag=e==Il

By The Obserl'er and The Associated Press 
Randy Kelly retired from his duties as the Notre Dame Leprechaun because of a recurrance of an old injury. Peter Bourjailly has been named to replace Kelly, a COTH major from South Bend. Bourjaily, who was last year's Leprechaun, is a market­ing major from Elmwood Park, Ill. -The Obseroer. 
The SaintMary's TurkeyTrotthree-milecross country race will be held Nov. 22. Open to students, faculty and staff of Saint Mary's, interested runners can register until today in the Angela Athletic Facility. There is a $1.00 entry fee. -The Obseroer. 
' .
Men s novtce crew will begin training with a man­datory practice tomorrow at 10:30 a.m. at the ACC track. If there are any questions, please call John Williamson at 6709. -TheObseroer. 
Notre Datne wrestlers will take part in the Mic­hiana Invitational Tournament tomorrow. The grapplers are coming off a fine performance at last week's Michigan State Invitational in which seven Irish wrestlers placed in the top six of their weight classes. -The Obseroer. 
Notre Datne Weightlifting Clubwmhavean organizational meeting Sunday at 1 p.m. in the third floor weight room of The Rock. All students and faculty members interested in weight training, bodybuilding or powerlifting or desire to know more about these sports, are urged to attend. Women are welcome. Ifyou are interested but unable to attend, call Matt Kelleher at 1581. -The Obseroer 
Orange Crush Classictickets are available for both the Nov. 26 and 27 sessions on a two-for-one basis. The Notre Dame wc;>men's basketball team will participate in the tournament, which will be held at the Rosemont Horizon over Thanksgiving break, along with top national powers UCLA, Georgia and Rutgers. Tickets will be sold at the ACC at the rate oftwo for either S8 or S10 for any of the four sessions. The Irish women will open the tournament against UCLA on Friday, Nov. 26, at 1 p.m. -The Obseroer 
The Ultimate Frisbee Club will begins its win­ter practices this tomorrow afternoon from 4 to 6 p.m. at the Stepan Center. -The Obseroer 
• • JJ 

continuedfrom page 16 
dent at my position. I'm happy." 
Part ofJohnson's improvement is due to Irish secondary coach Jim Johnson. 
"Coach Johnson has taught me a lot about football," says the outgoing sophomore. " But he's especially taught me mental discipline." 
Mental discipline will be impor­tant tomorrow when Notre Dame faces Air Force. 
"They run a wishbone, which is hard to defend against," states Johnson. "It's going to be a chal­lenge. We'd better win." 
The Observer wrll accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday. 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. However. classrfieds to appear in the next rssue must be received by 3 p.m. the busmess day prior to insertron. All classifleds must be prepard. 

either in person or through the mail. 
Classifieds 
J NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
TYPING. Fast, accurate, reasonable rates. Close to campus. LYNN SAYLOR 233-3423. 
Photographers: Am looking for someone to wort< for a profess1onal photographer next semester and next year. 12 hrs/wk, must be able to do h1gh quality B&W lab work and be a competent photographer. Greg 2772657 
Gmat review classes lor Jan 29th exam begin Dec 4th. Call Stanley Kaplan Educational Center for 1nfo-232-2366 or 272-4135. 
TUTOR tor test prep center to teach rev1ew classes for MCAT. Reqwres in­depth knowledge ol B1o,Chem. Physics, MCA T scores above 90 pet. college de­gree: teaching experience a plus. Weekend or eve classes beginning Jan. Call232-2366 after 1 pm 
Experienced typist will do typing. Reasonable rates Call287-5162. 
MINNESOTANS Daddy wants his car back so I need a ride back to NO the Sun­day after Thanksgtv.ng. (actually 2 ndes) Call Carol at 7730. 
IWANNAGOTO JOISEY Desperately need ride to anywhere in the Garden State. Call Laurie at 7730 
DIVORCE SUPPORT AND SHARING 
GROUP 
Are your parents presently going through 
or have undergone manta! difficulties? If 
so. some concerned B P. women would 
like to 1nv;te you to join those with s1mllar 
experiences to share your feelings and 
love. Our next meeting will be 1n Sr. Mary 
Lou·s room (Rm. 11) in B. P. on Sunday, 
Nov. 21 at 9:00p.m. 

LOST/FOUND 
LOST One pearl necklace w ruby clasp. If found please call Mara 6874 
LOST:A Down Jacket at the Beaux Arts Ball.lt is tan w1th blue sleeves It is brand new.lf taken or found, please return to 243 Stanford (8670) and no quest1ons Will be asked. 
Lost on Saturday t 1It3 gold bracelet il found call Cathy 284-5306 
Lost before break gold necklace with charm. Charm has 1nlt1als carved K.C.H. If round please call Kacey 284·4304 
FOUND: Pr b.nocularson Greenfield Sat. Call and descnbe them well and be close to the locatiOn and they re yours. Pete (3528) after 10:30 pm 
LOST or probably STOLEN one Levts blue Jean racket Thurs nile at Corbys II you value your life and/or want a reward then call 3588 and talk to me. Dont show up a• Corbys agam Without rt. 
LOST: ONE GOLD MEN'S CHAIN Might nave been lost in the ACC on Mon· day 11115 Please call David at x6931 
lnsh Tweed Cap--Gray Lost 11-10· 82, posstbly in the library Call8350--ask lor M1ke. Thanks 
ONE TIRE JACK WITH THE NAME MAR­GARET ON IT CALL 288-0'25 
REWARD!!! Lost at Penn State Pep rally, one pair of GORILLA COSTUME GLOVES. II found, call8125. 
Lost: A Bulova, Gold rimmed Watch. It has a scratch mark on the lace plate next to the numeral nine. Lost on Stepan F1eld on f 1/17/82 afternoon. If found please call George at 1418. 
FOR RENT 
Student Housing -Clean Safe. $100/mo. 291-1405. 
SPACIOUS ONE BEDROOM UNFUR­NISHED APT. GARAGE BSMT. UTILITIES INC. EXCEPT ELEC LW.W 
S. BEND 240.00 A MONTH PLUS DEPOSIT 287-5535 
Nice clean. 4 room single, appliances & major utilities furnished 3 blocks from memorial hosp. 175.00 288-6721 
Rent or buy, assume low inters! loan w1th small down payment on 2 story bnck home 4 bedroom bath & a hall fireplace, gas furnace good nieborhood. 275.00 rent 288-6721 
1 or 2 bedroom apt. close to memonal hospital semi-furn1shed. utilities payed 
145.00 & 195.00 deposit 277-5607 after 5:00 
Don't sleep w1th a club for protection. 3­bedroom house available for rent now · $300 mo. Call 289-8363. 
2-BED Apt.heat air paid. appliances. hardwood floors, $250 mo. 123 s. Eddy 233-6441 
WANTED 
Need Ride to & from BOSTON for break! Call Patti 1839 
REALLY NEED RIDE TO CENTRAL NEW YORK (ALBANY, UTICA, SYRACUSE FOR XMAS BREAK---WILL SHARE USUAL ·--CALL CHRIS AT 8573 OR3510ANYTIME. 
RIDE NEEDED TO NYC FOR XMAS BREAK-WILL SHARE USUAL--CALL CHRIS AT 8573 OR 3510 ANYTIME 
Need 2 rides to ISU Bloomington, Illinois this weekend. Call 5268 
Help! kneed lift from Mpls for TG break $$ Dave 3039 after 11 pm 
WANTED: ANY HOCKEY EQUIPMENT EXCEPT SKATES. DAVE 1578 
Need nde to Minneapolis lor Thanksgtv· 1ng. Can leave 11/23. please call Paul 8775 
RIDE NEEDED TO AMARILLO/DALLAS AREA FOR BREAK. CAN LEAVE ANYTIME AND WILL TAKE RIDE PARTWAY CALLDAVEat1578 
Go1ng to or thru EAU CLAIRE. WISC. for Thanx break? Need ride, will share usual Brent8593 
NEED RIDE TO NYC OR LONG ISLAND CAN LEAVE ANYTIME AFTER TUES WILL SHARE THE USUAL ROB 3248 
Need ride to and/or from MINNEAPOLIS Willing to share anving & expen;;es. Call 88 t3. In M1nn call 722·7365 
HELP!!! My mother has threatened suicide if I don't make it home for Thanksgiving. Please spare her life by g1ving me a nde to beautiful Baltimore ­home ol the Onoles -or to the D. C. area. Call Mike at 3401 or 3402 as soon as pos­
sible. My father will thank you. 
Need ride to DETROIT For Thanksgiving. Share usual. 6849. 
Any N.D. or SMC girls going to the spa. I need a ride --please. Call Toni SMC 5527. 
NEED RIDE TO DETROIT FOR THANKSGIVING -WILL SHARE USUAL CALL 7978. ASK FOR MAUREEN. CAN LEAVE TUESDAY. 
Need ride to Mlwaukee thla Friday to meet my dashing young maho. Calf Mary Brlgld at 3486. 
NEED RIDE TO MINEAPOLIS FOR BREAK. CAN LEAVE MON. AFTER­NOON, CALL JOE at 1534 
RIDE NEEDED THANKSGIVING BREAK TO No. VA. OR D.C. AREA. I'M WILLING TO RENT A CAR. PLEASE CALL 8332 
NO. VA./WASH D.C. is where I need a ride to lor Tnksgvng Brk. Will share usual. John 1817. 
Need ride to Washington, D.C. area for Thanksgiving break. Will share usual. Call 3656. 
WASHINGTON. D.C. Need ride ·Will share usual Brian 1139 
need ride to ChiCago (western suburbs) for Thanksgiving. can leave Tues., the 23rd. call Sheila 289-9304 
DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO ST LOUIS TO SPEND THANK W/LONELY GRANDMOTHER CALL JOHN 8621 
Need nder to CLEVE. area tor T ·giiv1ng Call Kathy 1279. 
NEED RIDE ALONG 1-80 TO IOWA (DES MOINES) FOR THANKSGIVING CALL MARK 288-4242 
Please help me get to PITTSBURGH tor Thanksgiving Break. Need either a round trip, or onaway nde from Ptttsburgh to 
N.D. Can leave any time, w1ll share usual Please help!!! Call Katy 284-4191 
Please help I need a nde to Cleveland anyt1me after Tuesday 10:00 Call Trish 4138 
Need 1 or 2 rides to U/NYC area. Can leave Mon Call 5443 (SMC) 
I NEED A RIDE TO ST LOUIS W1ll be able to leave anyt1me Wednesday Will pay usual. Please call Maureen at x1272 
DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE TO ROC­HESTER OR BUFFALO FORT-GIVING WILL SHARE USUAL PLEASE CALL TERRY at 8774. THANK YOU 
XXXDETROITXXX I really need a ride· can leave T ues Laurie 8040 
Need R1de to M1nneapohs for Thanksgtv­tng Wtll Share Usual Call Kevin 1629 
need a ride to anywhere in west. PA tor Thanks call Stan 8317 
need nde to dc/n va for thanksgiving Dave 1003 
RIDE NEEDE:l FOR 2 TO CLEVELANtJ AREA(EXITS 9 OR 10 OF 1·80) ON 11/24 WILL SHARE uSUAL. ~All BOB OR DANAT3340 
two need ride to ST. LOU or PURDUE, leaving tue. night or wed. call Jeff x6726 
Renting a cart Need 3 nders to Min­neapolis, call Joe x3471 
Long Island pilgrim needs a ride home for Thanksgiving and the Mayflower Ia too expenalvel I can leave Tuesday, and will ahara the usual. H you can help mme out, I'd be thankfutr Call Steve at 8626. 

FOR SALE 

USED BOOKS Bought, Sold. Searched. ERASMUS BOOKS. lues-Sun. 12-6 1027 E. Wayne One Block South ol Eddy·Jefferson IntersectiOn. 
Couches. $30 & up: Chairs, $15 & up. Call Mrs. Cooper at 272-3004 after 12 noon.Free delivery to dorm. 
FOR SALE Large. comfortable couch Best offer. Call 2854 
ONYX CHESS SETS IMPORTED FROM MEXICO. HAND CARVED. CALL 683­9754. 3·4 PM ONLY $32.50. BY ORDER ONLY 
FOR SALE 2 prong tap $35 Call Mary S 277·2916 
Two First Class Round Tnp A"line Tickets from South Bend to any place Un1ted Illes • Call232-6193. 


TICKETS 

FOR SALE 2 USC TtXS GA GREAT LOCAT. CALL MATT AT 1581 
I need your Kentucky G.A.'s. Will pay b1g bucks! Please call Ted x1873 
Need 2 GA's lor KY BB game Call Jim 1498 
I have ONE U.S.C. ticket for uta. Do you need 1t? Call John at 8638 

PERSONALS 

Dear Kathy, Happy Btrthda y once agatn, thiS ttme ftve days later! 
See you tonight, 
Ken 

STAR WARS Carroll Hall (SMC) 
Thurs. Fn. Sat 7:30 and 1 0 $1 
"IT'S HARD.. to have THE WHO 1n S.B 
And the beet goes on 
T,T, ANDP. 

WERE LOOKING FORWARD TO TONIGHT. HOT NIGHT WITH HOT DATES: SOUNDS MASSIVELY WHOLESOME NEVER CAN TELL WHAT WILL HAPPEN WHEN WE All GET TOGETHER FOR AN EVENING OF WINING, DINING, AND DANCING THIS COULD PROVE TO BE INTERESTING! 
L. K, ANDB 
T.W 

MY ANSWER TO THE QUESTION IS YES-WINING. WINING, DINING, AND DANCING 
YOU CAN THANK ME "ATER! 
LOVELB 
SOPH UT FESTIVAL COMMITTEE MEETING SUN 7PM LITTLE THEATER LAFORTUNE ALL INTERESTED SOPH­OMORES WELCOME 
SWEET SOMEONE, WHOEVER YOU MAYBE, SWEET SOMEONE. YOU SIT ME TO A 
T 
ALTHOUGH YOU PAY NO ATTENTION TOME ATALL 
MARIA PATRIZIA TAMO TOMASSO 
Contrary to popular bclid, Sue F and Shaun M ve not engaged. 
St. Ed's. we·re wild. Were crazy. We're 100 
I WILL LOSE MY VIRGINITY FOR A RIDE HOME!! I need a ndeto Phil. area or Delaware Can leave Tues. or Wed. Please call Ed at 8639. 
JUGGLER 
1) All submissiOns to the Juggler may be reclatmed by visiting the English offtce, 309 o·shag beginn1ng Monday, Nov. 22 
2) Watch lor the Fa111982 editiOn of the Juggler, to be diStributed at no charge lor the hrst time in three years following Thanksgiving break 
THANKS TIM' NOW THE LOVE QUAD IS COMPLETE! 
See Fos• Ve; Manker• 
See MargoRy Miker! 
It's only a model. Shhhhl! 
The Observer Love Van departs !rom the 
library circle every hour on the hour start­
ing at 8pm unt1l noone else IS Willing (or 
able) to drive. 
Weak Tang will be served to all surv1vors 
~~m;;~~a~;rning fi~~ 
GATHERING ·~ TONIGHT 1_, 
.' 
Attendance mandatory for sheep, as­sortea marsupials and other elegant beasts 
Loogoot..l What Is a Loogootee? If you'd like • ride there for braak I'm leaving Wed. Call Marilyn 126111111 
Bird. Three times in one week. We have to qu1t meet1ng like th1s. 
St. Ed's. We ve been talkmg proud all week. 
In thanksgiVIng to St. Jude for answers to h1s Novena He d1d not fail. 
KITCHEN KAY I BUSINESS BOB­HAVE A SUPER THANKSGIVING. I LOVE YOU -ANNE I KASSY 
KITCHEN KAY I BUSINESS BOB­HAVE A SUPER THANKSGIVING. I LOVE YOU-ANNE I KASSY 
ST. EDWARD'S HALL.1882 ·1982. 
ATTENTION SPORTS FANS!!!: This is your much-maligned and much-abused quarterback sptoakmg It's ume for the "Hail Mary· hnish Fortunately. I have halfback TS and wtde receiver CC on my team. Not only that. but I actually let someone else emcee the talent show so that I could work on my strategy (well, ac· tually my opening monologue was so bad I had to step down to save lace). SO, AS THE CLOCK WINDS DOWN, I must call my ftnal play And. although it IS 4th and twenty-five, we·re gmng, damn it. The snap is good. I drop back, pitch the ball to my halfback, TS (ah-·-the option play) TS drops back for the pass. and it's in the air It's good!!!! (The crowd goes nuts here.) CC. Wide rece1ver, has caught (accepted) the pass (offer) It's not only a firstdown, bul also a touchdown !score). Its too much tor the crowd to beljeve. And !hose lew who doubted the quartetback were proven wrong 
p. s. I was right See you tomorrow It ,.,n be a blast 
Dear Shawna and Twish. _ Have a super Thanksgivmg. I Wtll be think­ing of both of you. Love always, 
Guess Who 
who·s in last now Chris 
Caroline George, To our favonte South­ern Belle, have an awesome birthday weekend. Your P.O. ought to see some acttonwiththeb1g 19. Love, M-SandM.S. 
P.S. Bill who? 
St. Edward's Hall turns 100!!11! 
St Edward's Hall turns 10011!!! 
St. Edward·s Hall turns 100!!!!1 
St. Edward's Hall turns 100!!1!! 
Julie, 
Get PSYCHED for a 10000 watt eve­mng that will leave you in a state of KEFII -Slick 
Julie, Happy Birthday Love, George 
Dear Wa1ting in antiCipation to see the Happy Hour 4:00 My Place, Be There, Aloha ·George 
WANTED: WOMAN TO COOK, CLEAN, SKIN DEER AND GIVE ALOTTA LOVIN CALL JETHRO AT 8693. LOOKS UNI· MPORTANT · SA TS 300 OR LESS. ON­
lY  MINDLESS  AIRHEADS  NEED  
APPLY  
Yo Meow  
The  Frenchmg  Onion  Kid  and  is  

sidekick McNoodles couldn't quite do it; heard your stomach screamtng for vit B last nile. Would a !obsta al P1er 1 calm you down? Oh my, I hope not! 
Boy ah Dee 
SHORTS: HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY! YOU RE A VERY SPECIAL PERSON MANY MORE. .. LOVE, LEWSKI 
YOUR MOTHER'S PLACE (Stanford Hall Foodsales) SPECIAL on 14" PIZZA. Just $3.00 Friday and Saturday night. Opens at 10:30 p.m. Thanks, Mom. 
Don't m1ss A Man for all Seasons this weekend in Chautauqua. Yes, even satnts can lose their heads!!! 8 o clock ­be there!!! 
KEEP YOUR FINGERS CROSSED ... that nothmg happens to me this weekend, so the Top 20 Time Tunnel comes oH as scheduled Sunday mght at 6 on WSND AM64. 
Th1s week 1 go back to this week in November 1976, and as a result you'll hear from such arttsts of aubious stature as 
Rod Stewart Kiss Peter Frampton Alice Cooper and Blue Oyster Cult 
Be warned: The people of "Is You Is Or Is You A1nt My Babi bnng you the 2nd BLS Port-A-Party Why? Because life is rough and then you die ...then you rot... then you stink! Stormy strikes again! 
Mo,Mary,Sarah,Lady Di,& Mari Beth! Who could ask for better fnends? P,1·4-3! 
Q: What hides in the forest in Indiana and goes Barum-bum, Barum-bum. Serum· bum? 
A: An elk heart S•gh. 
The System is oot well. Lite Without ~arsu5)1als ts an un-k.oaJa­fledSlgr, 
lck. 
ll .JJ'


:t 





The Observer 
ill
..
... 

junior defenseman jim Bowie has one goal and three assists entering this weekend's action against Michigan Tech. The Irish play both today and tomorrow in the ACC at 7:30p.m. (Photo by Ed Carroll). 
Good friends stand up for you
when you need tliem. 
!'hone Gtlls got you nmvhere, hut this should get her attention. A mission requiring split-sen)nd tinung, perfect plannmg ;mel most imp ~rt.mtly, some suretooted, stmd-up ,l,>uys. 
When you come down to e;u1h, spting for something special. 
'!(might, let it be Li.iwenbrau. 

Lowenbriiu.Here's to good friends. 
__....,..._...___..,........,.......,..,.._.......__.......___....,...................__....,...................,.__.....,....,_.._.___._,...;;;:.,.. (<;)1982 Beer Arewed by Miller Brewing Co.. MilwauKee. Wis . .,.,......,......,...............-...,... 
r 
Friday, November 19, 1982 -page 12 
No returning starters 
Belles rebuild b-ball progratn 
By DAVE IRWIN 
Sports Writer 

And you thought you had troubles? 
Saint Mary's basketball team wa~ 8-1 S la.~t year. hardly anything to write home to mom and dad about. \1aking matters worse for t1rst-year head coach Mike Rouse is the 
knowledge  that  the  Helles  don't  
have a returning ~tarter.  
They  could  have  though.  Anne  

Armstrong, last year's leading scorer, decided not to compete this year as did fellow starters Mary Hay­less, Gretchen Mever, Kathy Murphy and Mary Pat Sitlington. Lisa Schirz 
played an intergal part until being 
dismissed from Saint Mary's because 
of academics. 
"I'm very disappointed," ~aid Rouse. "! hope to change that around (the program). I'm working overtime on recruiting." 
Roust· also will he without the services of his most promising fresh­man -Beth Kreher. Kreher opted not to play basketball after complet­ing the volleyball season. 
"That took 10 victories away right off the hat," dead-panned Rouse. 
Rouse does have Missy Van Ort, a talented 6-0 center, who was among the Belles top performers last season until receiving her report card. 

Teaming up with Van Ort will be S-8 forward Trish :'1/oland, .t wp-notch sub last year. Hounding out the start­ing five will b~· Elame Suess, Cindy Shurtz and .\1ary .\kQuillan -all S­
6. 
Rouse will have only three subs ready to play again~t Kalamazoo Val­ley Communitv College in the ~e;u,on opener scheduled for tonight in the Angda Athletic Facility with tipoff set ti>r 7 p. m 
Teresa :l.tc<lmnis ( S-6) will be the top guard otf the bench and Betsy Ebert ( S-1 0) wtll spell the front liners. Chip Ayotte ( 'i-8), recuperat­ing from knee surgery will see actioo­at forward later in the season. 
"All the gtrls we are going with are new in the sense of playing time." said Rouse ofhis roster that current­ly features one junior and seven sophomores. The lone freshman is Heather Quinn, who is recovering from injuries. 
Naturally there are plenty of things for the new coach to work on. 

"I don't know what we are going up with in regards to other teams," Rouse satd. "But I've got to believe we'll be underdogs." 
There are two areas of particular concern to Rouse. 
''Rebounding and depth will be our weaknesses," said the former Buchanan High School boys basket­ball coach, who quit after five years as a highlv-~uccessful head coach mcluding winning the Class C state title in 1978. 
"Despite all the Belle's problems, there are a coupk rays of sunshine trying to break through the dark clouds. Our defense will hold us in anv game." .;aid Rouse. ''f've been very plea.~ed with it. And we're in shape. You've got to he with only eight players." 
INTERNATIONAL MULTISI'ANDAR VIDEOCASSE' 1E: RECORDERS ;; RECEIVERS FOR PAl SECAM NTSC 
Now you can exchange and rlayback urdeocassetles from almost an~where in tire world' German11. Spain. Israel. Australia. And mon!J more countries. Acomplete internaroonal uideo S!JStem rncluding a brand new SONY SL· T?M£ 
multistandarcl urdeocassette player: 
recorder and a SONY 10" colorr~ceiuer 
is auai/able for the special introductory 
price of $1995. plus applicable sales tax 
5freight. Great for foreign langua9e classes or forergn students wishing to exchange urdeotapes wrtlr their nariue countrres. Raprd deliue•!J auailabe to 
major metro areas. Thrs special offer rs 
ualid onl!l until December 31. 1981. for 
1nformatron fill out the coupon and 
mar/to: 
The Eston Corpora11on POB 51~6 Louisvrlle KY 40105 (5011454·'555 

I ·------------· 
NAME•••••••••••••••••••••••• I ADDRESS•••••••••••••••••••••• I I ClTYG STATE•••••••••ZIP•••••••• I
IIam interested rn multistandard video II equipment for the followrng countrres: I
I ............................. . 
____________ 
..............................,II 



----------------------------------------~-----------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Friday, November 19, 1982-page 13­
Interhall football 
Dillon, Ho-ward in title gatne 
By STEVE DANCO "We are going to play the same right-guard Brian McHugh are all Sports Writer game as we have all year. We'll try to seniors and, with the exception of get a couple of scores early and let McHugh who sat out last year, all are It's David versus Goliath. The the defense take it from there. four year starters. little guy battling the big guy. Heart They've done it for us all year." 
"Everyone is fired up to be cham­and soul against the well-oiled Howard has been no slouch of­pions again. We've been there andmachine. fensively, with quarterback Steve know what it feels like to win," ex­It might only be interhall, but try johnston connecting on 21 ofhis 37 plains Marty Finan. "We had somesaying that in Dillon or Howard attempts for 443 yards. Don close games early in the year and allHalls. LaMonica has been the leading rus­our players are looking forward toLed by defensive back Pat her with 110 yards, while backfield showing how much progress weMaloney and lineman Casey counterpart Paul Fath has averaged have made. Right now, we're mainlyO'Connor, the Howard defense has 4 yards-per-carry for a total of 89 concerned with just playing up tonot given up a point all year. Last yards. Steve Saturno leads the our potential."

week against St. Ed's, Howard receivers with 7 catches for 192 yielded only two yards on the yards and Bob Lee has added 6 Linebackers Mike McGuire and 
ground and a paltry 79 yards receptions for 1 18. 
john Lucero lead the Dillon defense through the air. just as the defense is the backbone 
which has held opponents to an 

Maloney leads the team with 23 of Howard's team, so is the offense average ofunder four points a game. 
tackles with O'Connor a close Dillon's primary weapon. Led by Defensive linemen Lamb, Jimsecond at 22. O'Connor also has quarterback George Marget and Catalina, Rich Lange, johnadded three sacks toward the team receivers Bob Wicke, Yogi Spence McDonald and Marty Murphy have total of seven. On passing downs, and Mike Rigali, the Dillon offense stopped the rush while defensive Bob Lee And Kevin Wilgus have rolled up 29 points against an backs Wicke, Coughlan, William been able to turn in the big play with Alumni defense that had not allowed Dawahare and Brian Broucek have 
two interceptions apiece. As a team, a touchdown. 
stifled opponents passing attacks. 

Howard has seven interceptions and Twice Marget went deep and has given up an average of under 60 found Wicke and Spence for long This will be the first year ever in yards a game in pa-;sing. touchdowns. When that trio wasn't the history of interhall that the 
Linebacker Wilgus is the busy with their pro-style passing at­championship game has been played defensive captain but is not overly tack, running backs Brendan Cough­in Notre Dame Stadium. It also concerned with the potent Dillon lan, john Cywynski and Dave marks the return of Howard to inter­offense. McMahon were gaining good yard­hall competition after a three year 
"We're not going to change our age on the ground. absence, and is the first chance for a defense. We know they're fast," said But the bulk of the offensive load repeat champion since Keenan won Wilgus. "But we'll stick with what falls on the big and experienced three years in a row in 1975, '76, and has worked in the past." Coach Tim shoulders ofthe offensive line. Two­'77. The game starts at 1 p.m., and Connolly echoes Wilgus' senti· way starter jeff Lamb, center john students should enter through gate ments. Richards, left-guard joe Boyle, and 15. 



AUTHENTIC MEXICAN FOOD 
ELMATADOR 
MEXICAN RESTAURANT IN SOUTH BEND 2120 W. WESTERN AVE. 
288-3600 •••• No•••••••••••••No-•••• 
Hours: ~FREE FANTASTIC VALUE FREE ~ lues, Wed, 7. Buy One Dinner at Reg. Price ~ Thurs 11-9 ~-EL MATADOR Get Second Dirmer EL MATADOR ~ 
;;;;l 2120 w. WESTERN FREE 2120 w. WESTERN g
Fri, Sat uC SOUTH BEND SOUTH BEND u 11-11 1 
·.EXPIRES 11-25-82 DINE-IN OR CARRY-OUT NO LIMIT I ~-~~~ NDTHIS COUPON NOT GOOD WITH ANY OTHER SPECIAL NO !Iii! I •••••••••••••••••••• • 
c
• 
FREE DELIVERY
GOOD 
TO CAmPUS 
TimE 
with any 12, 14, ot 161nch pizza putchaae. minimum non-pizza otdet 
lal5.00. flu ~tlil!QIIImlted to two 
mile tadlualncludlng Notte Dame and Saint ffiaty'l 
FORTHE BEST IN PIZZA, SANDWICHES AND COLD DRINKS 
836 PORTAGEAVE 
1r------------------~
$1 OFF 16inch Pizza 1I with this coupon 1
WE ACCEPT ND &SmC I . I
exp1res 11/24/82 11
CHECKS 
I I 
• L--~------~•••••-•••J;
.a::~......~.................................... • • -­

1\.HI<E L.i11E \dt!\.l1WJ\f~ 

C()IWHIJNI!CAIJII()N 
.ft~Jt-........___(J Jl fcAIJ~fc 
lt=ll?III[)A\"" lfiiiL~\ ~~11:?111~~ 
November 19 

Stroszek (1 977) Werner Herzog. Germany. color. 108 m•n In EngliSh and German w1lh EngliSh sub11t1es A ty,cat. meianc~oly b>l:erly funny tate of three oddly assorted miSI>ts wno follow the Amer•can Dream to Railroao Flats W•scons•n a godfor· saken truck stop where they find a bleak etooraao ol TV Fuotball. CB raa•o and mob•le nomes1ead•ng 
Annenberg Aud.,Snite~useum Admission 
-......---lr1() ~ lltf71tll~.......-2·-00•.., 
-
ry

The force is 
Stephen 
Ieman
back.
King's 
"JIMMY
"EMPIRE
''CREEP 
THE KID"
STRIKES
SHOW" 

BACK"'®I
~ 
1:30-~ 
2:00-4:80­
2:00-4:30­
3:15-5:20­
7:05-9:30, 
7:00-9:30 
7:15-9:15 


THEREAREMANY ADVANTAGESTO THIS SUPRISINGLY 
AFFORDABLE ALTERNATIVE 
* 
Minutes from Campus * Tax Benefits * Build Equity 

* 
Attached Garages * Included Maintenance * Study Area 


* Room to Accomodate Guests from Home in your Own Home ! ! ! 
MODEL OPEN DAILY 1·5 
.EXCEPT WEDNESDAY 
On Crownhill Drive, off Ironwood .....,_*.;.;...---1g N 
North of Cleveland Road CROWNHILL 
I)
277-1177 or 272-7750 Another Development by 
CLEVELAND
PORTAGE REALTY 



~-----------~~-~~~----~----~---~ ~--~---~------~­
------------------------, The Observer Friday, November 19, 1982 -page 14 
Notre Dame vs. Air Force 
The Game 
The Statistics 
TEAM STATISTICS NO OPP RECEIVING G NO YOS AVG TO LG 
GAME: Fighting Irish vs. Air Force Academy Falcons 
TOTAL OFFENSE YARDS 2866 2450 Hunter 9 32 383 12.0 0 25SITE: Falcon Stadium, Air Force Academy, Colo. Total Plays 639 620 Howard 9 23 388 16~9 1 54 ( 46,668) Yards per Play 45 400 Moriarty 8 16 143 8~9 1 30 Yards per Game 318.4 272.2 P Carter 9 10 69 6.9 0 25 
TIME: 3:00 p.m. EST Saturday, Nov. 20, 1982 PENAL TIES-YARDS 53-458 31-282 Pearcy 7 7 51 73 0 15 TV-RADIO: Metrosports/ESPN Replay Network FUMBLES-LOST 14-6 24-12 Brooks 8 7 43 6.1 0 13 TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 155 144 Pinkett 8 6 58 9.7 0 17
Harry Kalas and George Connor 
By Rush1ng 91 44 Haywood 7 4 49 123 0 19
10 a.m. Sunday WNDU-TV (Ch. 16)
l 
By Pass1ng 59 86 Jackson 6 3 47 15.7 0 
' 
By Penalty 5 14 Bell 2 3 20 6.7 0 
D DOWNS-CONV 144-45 137-37 CSmith 8 2 11 5.5 2 8
WNDU-TV 16
I 
Percentage ~313 270 Favonte 3 1 17 17.0 0 17
Oack Nolan and jeffjeffers) 
POSSESSION TIME 288:05 251:55 Stone 8 1 14 14 0 0 14
f 
M1nutes per Game 32:01 27:59
(6-2-1)

I 
NOTREOAME 115 1293 OPPONENTS 9 1481738 11 7 7 79 
Notre Dame-Mutual Radio Network 9 112 4 54 
Tony Roberts and AI Wester 
.,

WNDU-AM 1500 and nationwide PUNTING G NO YOS AVG LG
RUSHING G NO YOS AVG TO LG K1el 9 68 2859 42 0 60P Carter 9 149 579 39 2 25

SERIES: Notre Dame 11, Air Force 0 Viracola 1 1 42 420 42
Moriarty 8 75 428 5.7 4 37 LAST MEETING: November 14, 1981, at Air Force P1nkett 8 83 424 5.1 5 76 
NOTREOAME 9 69 2901 42.0 60
Notre Dame 35, Air Force 7 Bell 2 24 123 5.1 1 19 
OPPONENTS 9 66 2718 41 2 63Brooks 8 27 86 32 0 10
RANKINGS: (AP) Notre Dame 18th, Air Force unranked 
Morns 4 3 28 93 0 24
(6-4)

TICKETS: Available; about 40,000 expected PUNT RET NO YOS AVG TO LG
Howard 9 1 18 18.0 0 18 Sweeney 9 1 10 100 0 10 Duerson 28 202 72 0 23

C Sm1th 8 1 4 40 0 4 

Bell 12 12.0 0 12Flemons 1 1 -1 -1 0 0 -1 Howard -1 -1 0 0 -1

Pearcy 7 1 -11 -11 0 0-11 Kiel 9 37 -40 -11 1 12 NOTREOAME 30 213 71 0 23
Karcher 9 15 -65 -4 3 0 0 OPPONENTS 36 340 94 1 72 

NOTREOAME 9 418 1573 38 13 76 OPPONENTS 9 321 712 22 4 44 SCORING GTO PAR-PAS FG TP 
Johnston 9 018-18 0-0 0 16-19 66 Pinkett 8 6 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 36 Monarty 8 5 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 30 P Carter 9 2 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 12 PASSING G NO CO PCT INT YOS TO C Smith 8 2 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 12 K1el 9 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Kiel 9 184 100 543 81072 3 Howard 9 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Karcher 9 33 14 424 0 207 1 Bell 2 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 OHara 2 4 1 .250 0 14 0 Team 9 0 0-0 0-0 1 0-0 2 
NO 9 221 115 520 81293 4 NO 9 1818-18 0-0 2 16-19176 OPP 9 299 148 495 141738 7 OPP 9 12 10-10 1-2 2 13-19127 
The Schedule 
NOTRE DAME AIR FORCE SEPT. 18 beat MICHIGAN, 23-17 SEPT. 4 lost to Tulsa, 35-1 7 SEPT 25 beat PURDUE, 28-14 SEPT. 11 beat SAN DIEGO ST., 44-32 OCT. 3 heat Michigan St., 11-3 SEPT. 18lost to Texas Tech, 31-30 OCT. 9 beat MIAMI, 16-14 SEPT. 25 beat Brigham Young, 39-38 OCT 16lost to ARIZONA, 16-13 OCT. 2 lost to NEW MEXICO, 49-37 OCT. 23 tied Oregon, 13-13 OCT. 9 beat NAVY, 24-21 OCT. 30 beat Navy, 27-10 OCT. 16lost to COLORADO ST., 21-11 NOV. 6 beat Pittsburgh, -' 1-16 OCT. B beat Texas-EI Paso, .)5-7 NOV. 13 lost to PENN STATE, 24-1 OCT. .)0 beat WYOMING, 44-34 NOV. 20 at Air Force NOV. 6 beat Army, 27-9 
--. 



Sports Writer  Sports Editor Emeritus  Exec. News Editor  Sports Writer  Sports Editor  
58-35-1 .622  48-45-1 .516  46-47-1 .495  44-49-1 .473  42-51-1 .452  
CLEMSON over South Carolina by 21  Gamecocks  Gamecocks  Tigers  Gamecocks  Tigers  
North Carolina over DUKE by 13  Blue Devils  Heels  Blue Devils  Blue Devils  Blue Devils  
MICHIGAN over Ohio State by 2  Wolverines  Buckeyes  Wolverines  Wolverines  Wolverines  
PITT over Rutgers by 27 Maryland over VIRGINIA by 15 Texas over BAYLOR by 8  Scarlet Knights Terps Bears  Scarlet Knights Terps Horns  Panthers Wahoos Bears  Scarlet Knights Wahoos Bears  Panthers Terps Horns  
Arizona over OREGON by 13  Wildcats  Wildcats  Ducks  Wildcats  Wildcats  
Washington over WASH. ST. by 18  Cougars  Huskies  Cougars  Cougars  Huskies  
USC at UCLA, even  Bruins  Bruins  Bruins  Bruins  Bruins  
SMU over Arkansas by 3  Hogs  Mustangs  Mustangs  Mustangs  Mustangs  
Fkrida State at LSU, even  Seminoles  Seminoles  Tigers  Seminoles  Tigers  
.­ Notre Dame at AIR FORCE even  Irish  Irish  Irish  Irish  Irish  



Ihe~~~==================================~ 
Weekend 
Friday, November 19, 1982-page 15 
Doonesbury 

Simon 
rr ,s e~~:>ED !'1Eiif.L'I> Of.l 
i\DJfcnVRL 1\i>JHTIVRL DifFj;KENC€5. 'DiFfEWtt.:i? 
I\ I 
I 
\ 
Fate: 
WHITE ,6~,.K,;..MALEJ fEM/ll~ ;-,
~INNY .Jil..'I\1,Ff\1,RET/1Rvfv,
~I(.WU5, Hl5f~MIC, ~MERiutij
1Ml£LLII'.ENf, YaJNC.l...~lO, etc., YET THE rt:li..IH r, 1nE 5111'1E: 
\IHoR£ 'lou SAY 'No'
Do YOIA THINK lliAf 
01 rR£PAft( 0 nJ HfiKt
I UN ~H BAO: Clll 
'fOv... AN OFFEI(.
CAHPIAS N(H SE.HE~TfR. 
J:"A'fi-\Eft?

The Daily Crossword 
©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 11/19/82 All Rights Reserved 
Garry Trudeau 

Jeb Cashin 
Photius 
AS A MA.T1"Efl. or FACf, WE DO 
HAVE ONE PALAfii\L SUITE L.EFf I 00 HOPE If fiCklfS 
YO!.llt FANC.Y IT MAY S££1"1 A 
• 

Campus 
•12 
p.m. -Lecture, "Thinking in the Future Tense," Denis Hayes, 101 Law School 

•1 
:45 p.m. -Concert, Indiana State Choral Fes­tival, O'laughlin Auditorium and Little Theatre 

•3:15 
p.m. -Workshop, "A Cross Cultural Analysis of Worker Ownership and Worker Par­ticipation,"Joseph Blasi, ~31 O'Shaughnessy Hall 

•5:15 
p.m. -Mass and Supper, Bulla Shed, Sponsored by Campus Ministry 

•7, 
9:15 & 11:30 p.m. -Film, "Absence of Malice," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Union, $1 

•7:30 
and 10 p.m. -Film, "Starwars," Carroll Hall, .Sponsored by SAPB, S 1 

•7:30 
p.m. -Friday Night Film Series, ''Stroszek," Annenberg Auditorium, S2 ·•7:30 p.m. -Hockey, ND vs. Michigan Tech, Hockey Arena 

•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "New Catholic Women," Prof. Mary Jo Weaver, ACC 

•s 
p.m. -Play, "The Maids," Washington Hall, Sponsored by ND/SMC Theatre, S2. 50 

•9 
p.m. -NAZZ, Greg Martin, 

•10:30 
p.m.-NAZZ,John Foryt, 


Saturday, Nov. 20 
•1 
p.m. M.S.T. -Football, ND vs. Air Force. Colorado Springs, Co. 

•s 
p.m. -Play, "The Maids," Washington Hall, Sponsored by ND/SMC Theatre, S2.50 

•9 
p.m. -NAZZ, "Shapeshiftor II," David Pierson· Garrick, 

•9:30 
p.m. -NAZZ,Jack Gallagher 

•10:30 
p.m. -NAZZ, The Paul Mitchell Group 


Sunday, Nov. 21 
•2:30 
p.m. -Students Against Drunk Drivers Meeting, Keenan's Hofman Lounge 

•4 
p.m. -Basketball, ND vs. Yugolsavia National Team, ACC Arena 

•s 
p.m. -Recital, Alto Saxaphone Recital, Jill Ann Daley, Little Theatre, Moreau, Sponsored by SMC Music Department 


T.V. Tonight 
ft;OI'!.f. 
I 
YOW DO 
1 Peasants 6 Jolts 10 Burlesque bit 
14 Blue 
15 Russian city 
16 Screen 17 Like a rookie 18 Exploding star 19 Still life subject 
20 Allays 
21 Daily 
23 Myth shatterer 25 Something unpleasant to eat 
500 
SHARES 
attraction 29 Arabian garments 
33 Mlstof sorts 35 Bubbly 
beverage 
38 Beastsof burden 39 Apretty­
offish 40 Stronghold 42 Executed 
a chess 
maneuver 4::1 Watch 44 Nipapalm 46 Stringed 
instrument 47 Certain candy 
50 Markedby stately beauty 
54 Eastern prince 58 In -(sue· 
cesslvely) 59 Bulrush 60 Napoleon's 
fate 61 Stringed 
instrument 62 See 51 D 63 Wordwith 
water or 
musk 64 Quizzes 65 Sea eagles 66 Parkin 
Colorado 
DOWN 1 Herb 2 Biblical 
book 3 Regrets 4 Former 
slave 5 Logic 6 Bulb flower 7 Approxl· 
mat ely 8 Rescinds 9 List 
10 Molt 11 N.Z. bird 12 Brainchild 13 Gull 22 Moslem 
decrees 


24 Scottish dish 25 Compute, for short 
26 Kindled anew 
27 Imitate 
Cicero 30 Cantanker· ousold women 
31 In a suit· able way 32 Cobbler, at times 
34 Burden 
36 Glraff• like animal 
37 Ending for centior milli 
41 Varnish 42 Lurches 45 French port 46 Fiberfor rope 49 Liqueur 
50 Djakarta's island 
51 "Topaz" 
author 52 Secluded spot 53 Night birds 55 Drop one's lover 
56 Lily 
57 Biddies 
7:30p.m. 
8p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10p.m. 
llp.m. 
11:30p.m. 12:30p.m. 

16 All in the:-~amily 
22 Family h·ud 
28 Tic Tac Dough 
34 Straight Talk 
16 The:-Powers of Mathew Star 
22 Dukes of Hazzard 
28 Benson 
34 Washington Week in Review 
28 The New Odd Couple 
34 Wall Street Week 
16 Knight Rider 
22 Dallas 
28 <ireateM American Hero 
34 Inside Business Today 
34 Religion and Social issues 
16 Remington Steele 
22 Falcon Crt:st 
28 The Quest 
16 NewsCc:ntc:r 16 
22 22 Eyt'witnc:-s News 
28 Newswatch Ul 
34 The Dick Cavett Show 
16 Tonight Show 
22 C.H.S. Late Movie 
28 ABC T News Nightline 
16 SCTV Comedy Network 
-' 


The Notre Dame Student Union 
presents PIII.IDIIII SillY FBI 
ABSENCE OF MALICE 
$1 7:00, 9:15, 11 :30 ENGDIEEIUNG ADD NOV 19 & 20 
•******************************************* 
~ior.Bar s~ .COMEOUTANDHEARTHE ••••• WANDELLS -:~1Q 
·~~-~ 
··'6 

also Schnapps Special all nite! •• 
... ********************************************' 


---~-~ 
Against Falcons 
Irish must stop wishbone 
I 
oi By LOUIE SOMOGYI 
Brigham Young and Wyoming by halfback Derek Foster (55-for-402),
Sports Writer 
respective scores of 44-32, 39-38, sophomore halfback )ody Simmons 44-34, while losing two others to (53-for 342), and junior fullback Avoiding a possible emotional let­Texas Tech and New Mexico by 31-Ted Sundquist (48-for-22I) roundI down, stopping an explosive 30 and 49-3 7 margins. 
out a balanced Air Force ground at­
Wishbone offense and replacing an The key matchup that will tell the tack. 
injured Blair Kiel are just some of tale oftomorrow's game will be how Trying to stop the Falcon attack the difficult tasks that Notre Dame the Falcons third-ranked rushing of­will be made all the more difficult 
must overcome when they face The 
fense (their 318-yards·per-game rus­because the Irish lost outstandingAir Force Academy at Colorado hing output trails only Nebraska and sophomore flip-tackle Mike Gann Springs tomorrow afternoon. 
Oklahoma) fares against the third­for the season to torn knee ligamentsThe Falcons have been a tradition­ranked rushing defense of the Irish suffered during the Penn State game. 
al pushover on the Irish schedule (which yields only 79-yards-per­Junior Jerry Weinle will fill the 
(Notre Dame holds an I1-0 series 
game on the ground). vacancy. Linebacker Rick Naylor, is lead with an average win margin of "They've scored 39 touchdowns also listed as a question mark for the 25 points), but after winning its last in IO games, and that's a great figure game because ofa hip-pointer. 
three games to boost its season no matter who you're playing or The Irish offense will also be with­record to 6-4, and having two weeks 
what your record is," Faust says. out one of it major contributors. to prepare for the Irish, the "Plus the Wishbone will give our Junior quarterback Blair Kiel's 
prospects are ripe for an upset. 
defense a completely different look duties will be limited to punting be­• "We've got to bounce back, and than we've seen all year. Air Force cause of a pinched nerve in his I'll guarantee you it won't be easy," 
has a lot of backs who run run well shoulder. The injury, sufferred says Notre Dame Head Coach, Gerry 
and they haven't hesitated to use during the fourth quarter of the Pitt Faust. "Air Force is running the them. We've done a great job against game, is not yet fully healed. Sopho­Wishbone as well as anyone in the the run this year, but we haven't more Ken Karcher will start his first country this year, and it's something played any teams that do the things game ever for Notre Dame. 
we haven't seen for a while." 
on the ground that Air Force does." "I thought Ken played admirablyAfter having reached emotional A pair of juniors in fullback John considering the limited game ex­peaks of jubilation and frustration Kershner and quarterback Marty perience he had this year and what a against Pittsburgh and Penn State Louthan lead the dangerous of­big game it was," says Faust." ...We 
the past two weeks, one of the 
fensive arsenal. Kershner leads the moved the ball effectively much of greatest concerns for the Irish will team in rushing, having picked up the time against Penn State, but we be maintaining a high level of inten­
899 yards in I86 carries. Louthan is couldn't cash it in for points a couplesity. second with 643 yards on 158 oftimes when we needed to." 
In the last two years, Air Force has carries. He has also thrown for 1,033 Stiff challenges abound for Notre played Notre Dame before and after yards, averaging I 7 yards-per­Dame in tomorrow's 3 p.m. clash. 
a "power game," and almost caught jim Dolan (42) scores a transition layup during Sunday's intra­
completion. How the Irish respond may spell the 
squad charity game. Dolan and all the freshmen face their first
the Irish from looking ahead or Sophomore halfback Mike Brown difference between a successful 
international competition this Sunday afternoon against Yugos­
unable to sustain an emotional high (66 carries for 509 yards), junior season, or another disappointment. 
lavia. See Rich O'Connor's story below. (Photo by Rachel Blount).
from the week before. 
_. Last year, just the week before the Penn State game, Notre Dame found itself in a 14-7 dogfight with the Fal­In exhibition cons in the fourth quarter before exploding for three touchdowns in the final 12 minutes to win 35-7. In 
Basketball team faces Yugoslavia 
1980, after having upset Alabama at Tuscaloosa the previous week, the By RICH O'CONNOR gressive game using the internation­the ball. inside Baron. ·"He's
player," saysIrish were tied 3-3 at halftime with Sports Writer al rules to their fullest advantage. "Yugoslavia beat Marquette by tough around the basket." Zarco 
the Falcons. In the fourth quarter, Under these rules, touching the ball ten (70-60), because they get the 
Vucurovic ( 17 points, 4 rebounds Notre Dame still only led I 7-10 Sunday afternoon; an untested on the rim is legal -either to tip the ball down the floor," says Baron. 
vs. Marquette) and 6-1 guardbefore prevailing 24-10. Notre Dame basketball team will ball into the basket or to knock it "They do a great job in transition -
Nebojsa Zorkic round out the This year, being fiat against a take on the Yugoslavian National out. Players also are allowed an extra passing the ball and taking it to Yugo's starting five. 
much improved and fired-up Falcon team. The exhibition matchup, step before a traveling violation is score. 
To go with the victory over Mar­squad could very well turn into a which will be played under interna­called, and there is a 30-second shot "(Drazen) Petrovic is very good at quette, the Slavs lost games tonightmare. tional rules, will tipoff at 4 p.m. in clock with the same principle as the taking the ball after a violation and Kansas (83-74) and Memphis State"Air Force will hit us with every­the ~cc. NBA's 24-second version. moving upcoun for a quick transi­(85-71) earlier this week. They arething they've got this week," says The Yugoslavians boast a team of Aplayer fouled in the act ofshoot­tion score. He had three or four as­scheduled to face .A.rkansas tonightFaust. "They've had a week off; so we highly experienced veterans averag­ing receives three shots to make two sists against Marquette where he and Brigham Young tomorrowknow they'll be especially well ing over 24 years ofage with several when his shot misses. After eight was just one step ahead of them in

... 
before flying into South Bend for
prepared. They gave us all we could years experience together as a team. team fouls, two shots are awardc:d as transition." 
Sunday's game. 
handle last season, and with their The nucleus of this squad placed the bonus; however, the fouled team D. Petrovic finished with 12 success so far this year, they're going third in World Cup competition last has the option to take the ball out-of­points and eight assists. His brother "The Yugoslavians will be a good to feel like this is the year they're summer in Cali, Columbia. bounds instead of shooting the pair Bolan, a 6-8 forward, also scored 12, test for us," says Head Coach Digger going to beat Notre Dame." "Yugo is a good, solid basketball of free throws. Lane violations are mostly from the outside, while pul­Phelps. "They'll be aggressive and 
Most ofthe Air Force success -if team," says Assistant Basketball allowed, but only for the shooting ling down six rebounds. very physical. It'll be g t ood ex­not aU -that Faust speaks about has Coach Jim Baron. "They're very team. Center Rajko Zizic, at 6-1 0 the perience for our freshmen front-line come from the offense. The high­mature and have been playing to­The major rule difference occurs tallest player on the Yugoslavian ros­players. Yugo is one ofthe top teams powered offense has had to carry a gether for a long Qeriod. They're all with violations in the backcourt. ter, pulled down I6 rebounds while we will play this season. Sunday's rebuilding defense that lost eight veterans, older fellows, who know The team gaining possession may scoring I 7 against Marquette -game will help us to evaluate our starters from last year. The Falcons how to play the game." throw the ball in from the nearest mostly after offensive rebounds. team against a good opponent, and won games over San Diego State, The Yugoslavians play an ag-sideline without an official touching "Zizic is the Yugoslavian's best show where we still have to go before starting the season." 
All-America guard John Paxson,

Despite injuries 
who scored 29 points in last season's contest with the Belgrade Red Star team from Yugoslavia (a game the
Johnson helps 'D' with aggressiveplay 
Irish lost 8I-76), will lead a probableBy DAPHNE BAILLE to get to the play any way I can. And Johnson's hard hitting and ag-time. starting team of fellow seniors Bill Sports Writer when I hit somebody, I want them to gressiveness are basic characteris-"The hardest thing about going 
Varner and Tim Andree, and fresh­know they got hit." tics of his playing style. A physical back in the game is trying to hit men Joe Buchanan and Tim Strong safety Joe Johnson played player and a smart pass defender, the again," figures Johnson. "But after Kempton. his best game ofthe season last week 
defensive back also uses his head -you make that first hit again, every­against Penn State, but that wasn't literally. On more than one occa-thing's okay." enough to save the Irish from their sion,Johnson has had to take a breat-Johnson secured a spot at strong 24-14loss. her because his head got rattled. safety this year after playing in all "I played a good game, but I'd "I just go at the person as fast as I eleven games at free safety as a fresh­
Bowl bid! 

rather win," says Johnson, who can," explains Johnson. "And man. recorded seven tackles -including sometimes my head just gets there ''I'm more comfortable this year," 
The Obseroer has learned that a quarterback sack for a loss of two first." he says. "I know what I'm supposed 
if Notre Dame defeats Air Force yards. Playing heads-up ball, The Fostoria, Ohio native never to do, and the players around me 
tomorrow, it will accept a bid to Johnson also intercepted a Todd suffered injuries in high school. seem to have more faith in me. 
the Bluebonnet Bowl. The loser Blackledge pass, which he ran back "I didn't start getting hurt 'til I got "When I came in as a freshman, I 
So h

of the game between ut ern
for 18 yards. up here with the big boys," he knew there were a lot of good 
Methodist and Arkansas will be The 6-2, 195 pound sophomore laughs. "Last year I got hurt a lot. I'm players in the secondary," recalls 
the Southwest Conference credits his performance to his enjoy­getting used to it now." Johnson. "I didn't expect to play as 
runner-up and oppose the Irish in ... ment ofthe game. Purdue and Michigan State each much as I did. This year I feel confi­
the New Year's Eve game at the "I like to hit," smiles Johnson. joejohnson sentJohnson off the field temporari-S 
Astrodome in Houston. "When the ball is snapped I just try 
i
1 

ly, but he returned ~to~a~c~-u~·o~n~e~ac~h;.iiiiiiiiieiei.Ui,ipiaigiei1 iiiiiiiiiiii~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ 

r 







