, , , WildDuck -page 4 

VOL. XVI, NO. 111 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's MONDAY, MARCH 8, 1982 
Black Arts Festival ends on 'good note' 
By KEW FUNT and expose black history, according BOB VONDERHEIDE to student Colette Payne. News Staff ''There is not enough 
exposure to black history onOperating on a budget "too thts campus. The environmentsmall to cover expenses, " the is not conducive to thatBlack Cultural Arts Festival awareness."
cncluded a month of activities Quality-wise, Griffin said shewith a fashion show and dance thinks the festival wasat the Athletic and Convocation ''excellent'' this year. ''TheCenter Saturday ni~ht. 
South Bend community The major financmg for the supforted the functions veryfestival came through cont­wei , " she said. "In someriburors within the University, cases, they outnumbered theaccording to student Piper Notre Dame community.'' 
Griffin. There is a basic There were different types ofbudget, but that never covers speakers this year, according toall of the expenses. ''The Griffin. ''Last year we hadProvosts Office is usually the Cicely Tyson and Marvalargest contributor," she Collins," she said. "Theadded. 
names are not the same."
The celebration of black The festival also included ahistory developed from a day to prsentation by poet Sonia a week to a month, noted Sanchez, a talent show, and the Hannah Storen [ir.] and Darryl DanielsGriffin. "Blacks on this 

play"And You Thought All We [soph.] are wean'ng the latest in threads for 
campus are proud of that and 

Could Do Was Dance." the Fashion Show that took place Saturday 
want to contribute to the celebration,'' she added. 

The festival could have been Raffle Wednesdaybetter if more people had participated, according to Black Cultural Arts Council Chairman 
Grace raises money for l979 ND graduate
Harry! Ammons. Ammons 

noted that the fashion show and Gospel Ensemble ended the By CINDY COLDIRON On Dec. 19, Komlosi was over and die. " halls. Other Grace Hall res­festival on a "good note." Staff Reporter installing a cassette deck in his Komlosi lives with his idents who were involved in the 
''Somehow, since the black car when two men pointed a mother, who is a factory work­planning of this fund-raiser 
community is so small, it helps The residents of Grace Hall gun at him, jumped into his car er, and neither of them has the mclude Bill Beck, Kevin Wil­the majonty of the white hope to raise $2500 to help a and shoved him into the back means to pay for a 12-week liams and Mark Rolfes. populus get to know what the former Notre Dame student seat. The men proceeded to physical rehabilitation program Among the items to be 
Black culture really is," who was paralyzed when he drive around for several hours that he needs. Confined to a raffled are: Phil Carter's foot­Ammons said. was shot by a kidnapper last until one of them, without wheelchair for the rest of his ball jersey, donated by Coach Ammons added that for black December in Washington, D.C. saying a word, shot Komlosi life, Komlosi had been very Gerry Faust; a basketball students adjusting to Notre Paul Komlosi, a 1979 grad­and the two left him to die. active in interhall sports at signed by all the Notre Dame 
Dame is "hard at times" but 

uate of Notre Dame and a Komlosi said later that he Notre Dame. basketball players, donated by"getting a little better. ith a former Grace Hall resident, had could tell right away that he Mike Burton, president of Coach "Digger" Phelps; and a little partipation, there is a lot been working as an aide to ReJ?. was paralyzed. "If I was going . Grace Hall and in charge of the book written and autographed
that can be learned." Dennis Eckart, a Democratic to get out of this alive, I knew fund-raiser, stated that raffle by Fr. Theodore Hesburgh. 

The festival is intended to Congressman in Washington. 


WSND announces new executive board 
WSND AM/FM announces Replacing Rowland in his the new Executive Board for capacity as production director 1982-83, as elected by the will be a sophomore, Chris present boar-d members. Mark Brennce. Lynn Marie Fort­Rowland, a junior electrical haus, the current director of engineering student, will head public relations, will assume the new executive staff as the position of AM program station manager. He is cur­director, and Charlie Burns, rently the director of produc­now operations director of 
tion engineering and will be FM, will move up to FM the only member of the exec­program director. The sports utive staff to return next year. department will be run by Bill Lanessy, and the news depart­ment, by John O'Donnell. Lanessy and O'Donnell are currently assistant directors of chose departments. The main­tenance of the station's equip­ment will be handled by chief engineer Hugo Van Nispen. 

The new executive board will officially assume their posi­tions on April l. 
WSND is now accepting applic~tions for the po~ttions of busmess manager, dtrector of sales and director of public relations. All students are welcome to apply. For more information contact Mark Rowland. 
Mark Rowland 
that I had to stay awake," he tickets will be sold tomorrow The winning raffle tickets will 
said. "But I thought, do I want and Wednesday for $1 during be drawn Wednesday night at a to be paralyzed for life? It lunch and dinner in Saint time and place to be an­would have been easier to keel Mary's and Notre Dame dining nounced. 
Reformedalcoholic analyzes addiction 
By MICHAEL WILKINS about the effects of alcohol and lems they may have with alco­
StaffReporter alcohol abuse, as well as ways hol. Former First Lady Betty 
to deal with alcohol-related Ford also will speak later this 
problems and ideas for alter­month.
The Michiana Coalition on natives to alcohol. Also sched­The program actually went intoAlcohol and other Drug Abuse uled are awareness sessions for full force last week with lec­will present Los Angeles youth and their parents and tures and forums on the effects 
Dodger pitcher Don New­
special sessions to inform
combe, a reforming alcoholic, See ADDICTION, page 3
women about the special prob-
and drug abuse expert Mitchell Rosenthal tonight at 7: 30 at Clay High School in South Bend. The pro~ram is part of 

Teenage thieves stalk 
the coalition's ' Alcohol Aware­
ness Month" for the Michiana 
area. 
The coalition is sponsoring 

Breen-Phillips, Farley
several events to inform the 

local community about alcohol By VIC SCIULLI Phillips were most affected by 
and to shed some light on the Senior Staff Reporter the burglaries. All the rooms 
problems that can occur when were unlocked at the time. 
alcohol is not used sensibly. Several robberies in two girls Residents reported seeing 
"We're really trying to offer dorms in the past few weeks on young boys running through some education and possibly campus have alarmed residents the hall, but no suspects have promote sensible drinking," and caused an increase in been apprehended. said Charlotte Voor, Executive security in those two dorms. Two wallets, belonging to Director of the Alcoholism During the last week of girls from other dorms were Council of St. Joseph County. February, several residents of found in one of the bathrooms "We're stressin~ education Breen-Phillips and Farley halls of Farley Hall last Friday. No and prevention whtle aiming at were robbed of their wallets suspicious characters were seen the social drinker.'' and purses while their rooms in the hall; no one is certain as 
The coalition will sponsor were unattended. Rooms on the See THIEVES, page 3open meetings to inform people first and second floors of Breen­




News Briep 
By Tbe Obsen,er and Tbe Associated Press 
REV. THEODORE M. HESBURGH is among seven persons named by the U.S. Department ofState to observe the elections in El Salvador on March 28. The delegation will be headed by Sen. Nancy L. Kassenbaum, Republican of Kansas, and includes Fr. Hesburgh, Congressman Bob Livingston of Louisiana; Everett E. Briggs, deputy assistant secretary for Inter-American affairs; Clark Kerr, presidents emeritus of the University of California at Berkeley, and Richard M. Scammon and Howard Penniman, well-known election experts. Scammon and Penniman are in El Salvador this week observing election preparations, and the entire delegation is scheduled in the country during the final week of the campaign to witness the polling and vote counting process. --The Observer. 
GUNMEN WOUNDED THREE PEOPLE at a polling station in Guatemala City yesterday and three guerrillas were killed in a shoot-out , police said, but voters appeared to be ignoring a leftist call to boycott the national elections. Police said the gunmen opened fire at the pollin~ place oin the capital's southern edges and fled in a speed10g car, shortly before voting for a new president and other officials opened. Later, authorities said three terrorists, one with a sack full of bombs, were killed in a shoot-out with police. At least 36 other people died in political violence on election eve. Election day security was heavy throughout the capital. Soldiers guarded polling places with machine guns mounted on jeeps and spot car checks were made on the highways outside the city. Travelers from two northwestern provinces where leftist guerrilla activity has been heavy reported a better-than­average turnout. In the capital, marimba bands played for the long lives of voters. The government promised ''free, cleaQ and pure" elections but leftists urged Guatemalans to boycott them, calling them a "farce." No liberal candidates are running for president. --AP. 

POliSH ARCHBISHOP]ozef Glemp appealed to Poles and the Communist government yesterday to com­promise despite what he called the "many harms and vio­lations of human dignity" in life under martial law. Glemp's remarks were considered conciliatory toward the government, which two days earlier announced two priests had been jailed, one for slandering Polish leaders and the other in connection with a police killing. ~·we need to be reasonable and realistic,'' the Roman Catholic primate said in a sermon at St. Michael's Church in Warsaw. "We can't say now or never or everything or nothing. We also should look into the future. Oyr future perspectives are great." Sf,eaking to several hundred people, Glemp said that near y three months of mania! law have brought "EENORMOUS DISRUPTIONS" AND "many harms .and violations of human dignity." More than 4,000 people have been detained since Premier Gen. Wojciech Jaruzelski decreed martial taw Dec. 13 after 16 months of strikes and political challenges to Communist rule by the now-suspended Solidarity union. Glemp, who was con­demned the crackdown several times, IS considered the spiritual leader of Poland, where more than 90 _percent of the nation's 36 million people are devout Catholics. --AP. 
MINORITY STUDENTS make up 8 percent of the University ofNotre Dame's undergraduates and 5 percent of its graduate school enrollment in the 1981-82 academic year, unchanged from the previous year. The percentage of black students fell from 4 to 3 in the undergraduate studeiu body, while Hispanic students increased from 3 to 4 percent. Hispanic students' percentage in the graduate school rose from 2 to 3/ercent, while the percentage of black students remaine at 1 percent. American Indians and Asian Americans made up the rest of the minority students on both levels. There was a 24 percent increase in ~ccepted minority students, reflecting intensified recruit­Ing by the undergraduate admissions office, but rising costs, cutbacks in federal funds and limited University financial aid resources caused low confirmation and high cancellation rates. --The Observer. 

INCREA~1NG CLUUDINESS today with occasional light snow. High near 25. Cold tonight with continued chance of light snow; low 18. Sunny tomorrow with a high temperature of 32. ·--AP. 
if 

-------------------------------.._...-----------------~ ­
--~---~------------~~--~ 
Monday,MarchS,l9S2-page2 
In Memory of Bluto 
Every now and then, an event occurs which· makes you realize how unpredictable and fleeting life is. This weekend such an event occurred; John Belushi, a comedian of our generation, died at age 33. 
The death of John Belushi is different than the recent deaths of celebrities such as Natalie Wood, William Holden or John Lennon. Though many of us enjoyed the works of these entertainers, they were not of our generation. We each have our favorite Lennon tune, but ] ohn Lennon started back in the sixties; he was there before us. Belushi came on the scene with us. 
John Belushi did not gain national recogni­tion until he appeared on the first Saturday Night Live show in 1975. The show offered satire that commented on subjects that Mom, Dad and big brother could not identify with. They did not know that Candy Slate was a shot 
at Patti Smith, or let alone who Patti Smith was. 
Some people may think that I am stretch­ing it a bit too far to say that the death ofa comic who dressed up as a killer bee and a Samurai warrior had an effect on our life. 
Yet, he was there on the tube when you didn't get a date for Saturday night and at the movie theater as Bluto when you did. And more importantly, he was the first enter­tainer whose career we've been able to live with from start to finish. 
In this respect, his death hits home; a man who should have had the best years of his career ahead of him --will be buried. 
Though he only performed to a national audience for the last seven years, the charac­ters Belushi portrayed made a statement on the way most people would secretly like to live; i.e., everyone has a little Bluto in them. 
This underlying feeling added the special meaning to Bluto's lines in the film "Animal House": "Seven years of college down the drain.'' Sometimes every college student wishes that he could just stay in college ·and hide from the real world. (Isn't that why we're here at Notre Dame?) And who is the character in the film that gets the rest of the Delta House brothers ready to turn the worst time of their lives into the best? Bluto ("when the ~oing gets tough the tough get going."). Most Importantly, which character in the film ends 
up  the  best in  the  long  run?  Senator John  
Blutarski  with  an  attractive  wife  and  a  
prestigious title.  

The main aspect of this desire to be like Bluto is the desire to live life for the moment, a total disregard for the future. 
In actuality, the character torments the 

Design Editor 1 Paul McGinn ~esign Editor 2 Tim Neely News Ass. Bob Vonderheide Copy Eds ] oe Musumeci Skip Desjardin Features Layout T ari Brown 
Day Editor David Grote 

Information Tables Set Up In
Typists John McCarthy Mary Agnes Carey 

LaFortune & LeMans Lobbies 
The System Ad Layout Mary Photographer Gonzalo Reyes 

Monday, Tuesday&Wednesday 
Guests Blank Screens Dusty Machines 
11-2pm
Crazed loons and canoons Hi, Cheryl 


student who resembles the ''Niedermeyer'' type who is so concerned with the GPA and the Orgo lab due tomorrow that he does not know the names of the guys in his section and refuses to go out with the gang every now and then. Like Niedermeyer, they will probably end up being killed by their own troops in Vietnam or El Salvador. 
His humor took us away from the impending dangers of the nuclear arms race, Three Mile Island and unemployment, and enabled us to 
enjoy the moment, for­getting the future, be­cause it might not be there. 
This is not to say that everyone should totally disregard all responsi­bilities; but every once in a while it is the best thing in the world to do what you want to and say, "The hell with everybody else." Life is not fair, as Belushi death showed. It does not promise that you will get what you de­

17~--~,._ server or that you will 
J always have the chance to do what you want, so you better take the chance while you can. 

Beneath this disregard for everything, a message of''be yourself'' comes through. Bluto did what he wanted 
What we are concerned with is the develop­ment of the individual without interfering with other peo_ples' rights and well-being. 
Bluto d1d not want to harm the members of the other fraternities in "Animal House;" he just wanted them to leave his Delta House alone. 
In actuality he wanted them to respect his life. . 
It is with this respect for life that this column is dedicated to the memory of]ohn Belushi and all the enjoyable moments his talents have added to my life and others. 
Observer notes________, 
The Observer incorrectly reponed its News Department promotions last Thursday. The promotions are: to Senior Staff Reporter --junior Michele Dietz and freshmen Mark Worscheh and Vic Sciulli; to StaffReporter -­junior Sonya Stinson, sophomores Cecilia Lucero and Tim Petters, and freshmen Kathleen Doyle and Mike Lepre. 
SENIOR FORMAL 
~~s Time CJ:oes By" 
April17, 1982 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief..............................john McGrath Founded November 3, 1966 
Executive News Editor........................ Kdli flint !.ports Editor .............................._.' Skip Desjardin 
The Observer is an independent ;~spaper published by the students of the News Editor............................. David Rickabaugh Photo Edilor.........................................John Macor University of Notre Dame duLac ancJ....~aint Mary's College. It does not necessarily · !J:tfc Executit'e Editor ........... Mary Agnes Carey Edit(Jrlals Editor........~:.............Anthony Walton reflect the policies of the administratt~~ "'f either institution. The news is report­SMC News t:ditor......................Cathy Domanico Features Editor .........................&~egory Swiercz ed as accuratdy and as objectively as po. Je: Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views Department Managers of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and 
Business Manager .........................Rich Coppola Production Manager ................... Michael Monk 
the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encour!lged. 
Control/er.............................................joe Mulflur Circulation Manager .............Tom MacLennan Advertisi;,g Manager .......................Chris Owen Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 


--------------------~­
The Observer Monday, March 8, 1982 -page 3 
...............................................................................................
• • .Addiction 
I JUNIORS ~ I 
continued from page 1 Special care is being given to syndrome" (FAS). The con­educate youth and women, two ditions related to FAS are 
~ OurSeniorTriptoLosAngeles I
of alcohol and other drugs, as groups that can be easily permanent and can be very 
well as a special program damaged by alcohol abuse. Not serious. Since no safe level has yet been established for _{>reg­
highlighting new techniques in only will children ranging from ~ will be November 24-28, 1982 ~ 
alcohol counseling. high school to elementary age nant women, the coaliuon is learn how alcohol can damage stressing education about 
~ TotalCostWillBe $375 ~ 
the body, but they also wlll drinking problems for pregnant
"Awareness Month" is 
learn alternatives to drinking -­women.
aimed at virtually every group such as ''getting high on your­
in the community. Senior cit­~ INCLUDES: I 
izens have the opportunity to self' --and how to deal with In all the groups, one basic
alcohol responsibly.

learn the problems that can theme appears. "What we're 
occur when medicine and dru~s trying to tell everybody is 'take ~ -chartered plane to and from L.A. ~~ are mixed. People working m ''Though we will have people care of your body while you're ~ -4 nights at Sheraton Town House ~ 
various industries can learn the relating stories of how alcohol taking care of your life,'" Voor difficulties that can arise when can rum lives, we're not just said. ~ in downtown L.A. ~ alcohol interferes with work and tryin~ to scare them into not 
rhe resources are available for abusmg alcohol," Voor noted. ~ -ticket to ND-USC football game I ~ the troubled employee. "We're trying to show them 
options to drinking, ar at least, ~ -rent-a-car with unlimited mileage I ~ how to drink responsibly.''
Another of the goals for the 
... Thieves ~ for every groupof4. ~ ~ 
coalition is to help alcoholics and people involved with an The problems a woman may 
~ -plus more!!! ~ :
alcoholic to learn to cope with encounter with alcohol will continuedfrom page 1 the disease. Families are able receive special attention, not ~ ~ to learn how to live with an only because the problems of to how the wallets got into 
active alcoholic and how child­alcoholism appear to progress Farley. I A $50 non..refundable deposit ~ ren of alcoholics will be in­more rapidly in women, but In a non-related incident, two fluenced by the disease. People also because of the problems young black teenagers were ~ will be collected on I will also learn that intervention, that can occur when drinking apprehended by security after the actual process of confront­durin~ pregnancy. Birth defects Sr. Jean Lenz, rectress of 
ing the alcoholic, is the best assoCiated with heavy alcohol Farley, confronted them in the I March 24 and 25 I 
way to combat alcoholism. use are known as "fetal alcohol dorm's television room. The suspects were identified and ~ ~ questioned but were released. 
~ I
The girls of both dorms have
SMCphone-a-thon been cautioned to lock their 1 only 500 places available ~ 
doors at all times and to be susricious of stangers in the ~ ~ 
e• lrlriEJlllrRE : f"'····················· .........o.EIIviR'i'N·G·"i'o..N.ofifE..DA.ME·~····· ...... I and SAINT MARY'S 
= Godfather's Pizza®
Amtrak depot economically,
ARRIVE 

AMTRAK comfortably, and on time! c
~ 
~ 5 30 am I 00 am 938a.m· 10.10 a.m Obtain tickets from your favorite ~ ~ 6 30 am 8 00 a m 11 18 am 11 50 a.m. 
travel agent or any United limo ::!
8 30 a m 10 00 a.m 2 38 p m 3 10 p.m 

10 30 am 17 00 noon 3 28 p m 4 00 p.m office. Please make reservations ;; c::> 12 30 p m ? 00 p.m 6 03 p m 6 35 p.m 
= 
at least 48 hours in advance
4 00 p m 7:35p.m. 4 30 p m h 00 p.m 

a:; 2 30 p.m 7 03 p.m .........,.

for guarantee. Order the EXPRESS DELIVERY: 
6 30 p m H00 p.m

~ Medium pepperoni, sausage, or combo and receiue quicker ser"ice. 
.................................................................. 
Driver has fresh pizza for sale on truck.
: 
~...tt.Q.U&.~. 

5 Mon.-Thurs. and Sun. 5 PM -10:30 PM i Fri. and Sat. 4 5 PM· 12:30 AM 
i•••••••••••u•aaauaau•••••••ua••••••.........................................,........,......,,.....,,..,.!_•••••••••••••J• 
UAVE A.RRJV[ LEAVE NOTRE DAME O'HARE NOTRE DAME 
hal.


raises over $50,000 
By MARY MciNERNEY and slide shows are scheduled News Staff throughout the week of Feb. 26 through April 1. 
The Saint Mary's Board of Other issues the board dis­Governance met last night to cussed were the alumni phon-a­discuss the ''Preparing for thon and parietals survey. The Peace" week. phone-a-thon, directed by Anne 
Sue Sommers from the ) us­Hulme and Joanie Gjostein, rice and World Committee grossed $50,466. The returns asked for the board's support for the parietals survey were 92 during the three special events percent. The board asks all concerning Christian Peace­students to return surveys in makers. ~peakers, discussions order to complete the survey. 
The Observer !USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Fnday and on home 1ootball Saturdays excep: dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer >S publ>shed by lhe students o1 Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys Col­lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased 1or $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnling The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd>ana 46556 
The Observer >S a member o1 The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
c;-------------...
::L~ "'Jll-' J) .Y...Btu :.!J' If Bl ;\' Ni 




'10/' 
Off-Campus Storage 
ovpr Spring Break in Stepan Tues. Mar. 9 2-4 pm Wed.Mar.10 2-4pm 
For more info. call 277-8839 Sponsored by O.C. Commission 
~-------------­
....................................................................................................................... 
Cogimo'g s-faUt COegign 
18461 St. Rd. 23 Soutb Bend, callfor appointment 277-1875 
-shampoo, conditioner, cut style Guys-$7.00 (reg. 13.00) Girls $10.00 (reg.18.00) 
For Co-Designers Only. 
........................................................................................................................ 
• N()flif ()'1.11f/UII\IT 11HRf"'S • 
~ ..........................................................................................J~
••••.....•.••.•••••.••,
: {)I?EN •I AIU()IIli{)NS II ! I llriE CAll(() INIUEX i 
: BY TADEUSZ ROZEWICZ e 


:directed 1{/liZII/HIIfcRZ : I by lai(AIIJN I 
• monday march 8 at 7=00 pm:
! the Iittle theatre ( s me) .I
. ' .
; 
e13 men 15 women\: 
• All Notra Dame Sa1nt Mary 1 student. are encouraged to at lend 


r--~-----~ ~~---­


-SttOWC 

The ND/SMC theater production of Henrik Ibsen's The Wild Duck should not have been missed. This theater classic is Ibsen's finest play, and director Frederic Syberg deserves our admiration and gratitude for giving this rather difficult play a thoroughly ade­quate and quite enjoyable production. 
Walter Davis 
The play is about illusions: how they are fostered and kept up, how they cut across one another, how necessary they are to our frail human life, and how, finally, they can destroy. For a campus like ours rife wtth ill~sions, the play has a special pmgnancy. 
The young and idealistic Gregers W erie 0ohn Davenport) vows to strip the illusions from his friend's eyes, Hjalmar Ekdal (Richard Lechowich). He proceeds to do this by moving in with him and his wife, Gina (Heather Fraser). When Gregers reveals the truth to Hjalmar about Gina, he produces only depres­sion and .despair, instead of enlightenment and strength, and almost breaks the family apart. Undaunted, he persuades Hjalmar' s daughter, Hedvig (Eileen Durkin) to bring her father round by an act of noble self-sacrifice, killing the wild duck that is so precious to her. Perhaps grasping the 
symbolism only too well, 
Hedvig shoots herself, leaving 
all, even Gregers, in despair. 
For Gregers, the Ekdals live in a world of illusions; yet he, in his belief in the nobility of ideas, is the greatest illusionist of them all. This is an Ibsen play that satirizes idealistic lbsenism, a symbolic ,Play that criticizes symbol-making. Its play of perspectives is dazzling (almost Chekhovian), mixing as it does comedy and pathos, zany horseplay and terror. 
Therein lies its difficulty in performance. Hjalmar, for mstance, must convincingly combine self-pity and generosity, foolishness and pathos. On opening night, Lechowich seemed to be able to 


smer 


SE 
avoid extremes, but he did so at the expense of a fully con­vincing portrayal. Perhaps in order not to appear ridiculous, he let some comic moments slip by. He did not seem to get into hts part until the comic ranting and raving of Act III, after which things went smoothly. Davenport played Gregers as coldly Satanic (almost like Iago) rather than as a bright-eyed idealist; as a result, his dis­illusionment received no audience sympathy (the audience almost hissed at times). Instead of wild-eyed enthusiasm, guilt and deflation, he displayed detadu~ent and slight distress. Fraser was · stolidly peasant-like as Gina, and a bit stiff. Durkin gave a brilliant performance as Hedvig. She resisted the temp­tation to play the doomed little girl as languid and pathetic. She made her into an angular impetuous adolescent, teeming with life. Raul Aportela was absolutely brilliant as the crazy but dignified old Ekdal, usually drunk and muttering to himself as he wandered about the stage. Joseph Dolan as Dr. Reiling and Paul Clay as the drunken theology student, Molvik, gave creditable sup­porting performance, as did]oe Musumeci as Haakon W erie and Therese Brown as Mrs. Soerby. 
The sets by Thomas Leff were quite well done, especially the Ekdal home, half literal studi, half symbolic sea­bottom. The pacing was lively, but the fake beards plastered here and there on the faces of the male actors were distract­ing. There were flaws, but the acting was thoroughly competent and interesting. This is a difficult play to stage, and it is notable that 1t drew a large and enthusiastic audience, even 
in the midst of the Sophomore 
Literary Festival. To perform it at all was an act of courage; to do it so entertainingly was a real accomplishment. 

Monday, March 8, 1982 -page 4 
Is honesty really thefair policy? I'm constantly pleased with the fact that I can sit here and complain about something without ever having to make a hard decision about what ought to be done about it. Congress is trying to decide whether to pass a law making it mandatory for used car dealers to reveal any known defects in the cars they sell. Congressmen are getting a lot of help in making up their minds from Political Action Committees (PACS) supported by the dealers, which have contributed to the politicians' campaign funds.  
findy Rooney  
On the surface, it all seems obvious. Of course an honest used car dealer should tell a customer that the engine is shot, the brakes are about gone or the body is almost rusted out under the bright, shiny new paint job. The question, though, is this: Is anyone else selling anything to us being held to that same standard? Do the companies that sell us brand new merchandise have to be honest with us about what's wrong with their product? They don't, of course. We all know that when lt comes to an advertisement, almost anything goes. There's a common understanding among us that we take ads with a grain of salt.  

Don 't worry ... It was owned a ~whom I bought only an Sundays I' 
There's no doubt about it, asking used car dealers to be absolutely honest may be asking too much. Assume you're an honest person. How would you behave under similar circumstances? If you were selling a house in the fall when it hadn't rained in weeks, would you go to a lot of trouble to tell a prospective buyer that the cellar often has water six inches deep during the sprin~ when it rains a lot? Or wouldn't you bother to mention 1t? Would you buy a used car from a person like yourself? 
We'd all like to live in a world where no law had to be passed to enforce honesty, decency and ethical standards, but we don't live in that world. The Romans had that Latin phrase we've borrowed, "caveat emptor." It means "Let the buyer beware," and most of us recognize with some sadness that we have to live by that rule. It's why we pinch the fruit. 
In no case are we more suspicious than in the purchase of a second-hand car, but at the same time there's nothing we buy that we're so incapable of judging accurately. You can look at a car in a lot for an hour and you can drive it around the block, but you're still not going to know that it was in a bad accident four months ago and the frame is weakened and bent. You're not going to know the piston rings are gone and the car uses a quart of oil with five gallons of gas. You can see for yourself that the tires are OK, but you can't determine that the transmission is shot without taking the car apart. 
In spite of the money being spent by the car dealers trying to get Congress to vote against the bill, I'm against it anyway. Sometimes the car dealers themselves don't know what's wrong with a car and it would cost them more to find out than the car is worth. The law would make the dealer fill out a checklist of 52 possible defects the car might have. 
I'm in favor of that only if everyone else selling us anything has to do the same thing. 
----------------~---~-----~-------------------­
Sj)orts=~~r=ie~~~S======~================M=on=d~='=M~=c=hs=,=19=s2;=pa=ge=s 
By The Ohserr•er and The Associated Press 

Bookstore Basketball is just arounct the: corner. Registration will be: hdd on Wednesday, March 10 (Austin Carr's birthday), from 6 to 8 p.m. in the: LaFortune: Ballroom. Each team must specify two captains, one of whom must be: present at registra­tion. The: entry fcc: is S3.00 per team. -The Observer 
All Rowing Club members going on the spring trip to Auston are required to attend a meeting for money collection Mon­day at 10 p.m. at LaFortune Little: Theatre. Any questions, call Jim Feider at 18';9. -The Observer 
Non-varsity deadlines coming up include both men's ami women's 12-inch softball. The rosters are due Wednesday and must include I 2-16 players. all from the: same hall. The deadline for grad softball is also Wc:dnl·sday, with a 12-mc:rnbc:r roster mini­mum and all players from the: same department. The baseball league rosters arc: due Wednesday with a roster of 14-1 H players. There is a SI'; entry fee for each roster. A women's soccer tourney is forming. with teams arranged by hall and rosters due; of course, Wednesday. There will he a S20 fcc ti>r entry and proof of insurance is required. 
-The Ohserr,er 
IN7ERHAU HOCKEY PLAYOFFS begin tonight with towotwo semi-final games in the ACC's North Dome. At 10:15, Grace will play Dillon and at 11:30, Off-Campus faces Holy Cross. The winners will face off in the championship game Tuesday night at 10:15. -· The Observer. 
SKI TRIP MEETING for all those heading to Steamboat Springs on the Student Union trip will be held Wednesday at 6:45 p.m. in LaFortune. --The Observer. 
FOUR NOTRE DAME FENCERS qualified for the NCAA championships on the strength of their perfor­mances at the Great Lakes Invitational over the weekend. In men's foil competition, Marc Dejong finished first to qualify for the event, to be held March 16-18 at Notre Dame. Co-captain Jim Thompson finished sixth and failed to qualify. Notre Dame's Mark Daly qualified in th'~ epee event, as did freshman Mike Janis in the sabre. Co-captain Sal D' Allura finished fourth in the sabre but did not qualify. For the second straight time, Notre Dame's men were defeated by one point by Wayne State, this time 109-108. For the women, a 9-2 win over Northwestern yesterday qualified the team for the NCAA Women's ChampionshiJ?s to be held March 25-27 in San Jose. Susan Valdiserri fimshed third in the women's foil competition and qualified for the individual championships. --The Observer. 
... Hockey 
the play with a pretty pass from alty, Re_gan won a scramble in
continued from page 8 
the Irish zone and Logan front after a Kirt Bjork shot the fourth Irish goal of the streaked in on a helpless Elliot. from the point and put in the night. It was an instance of the fifth Irish goal. 
Logan capped a spectacular impressive play displayed by It was the sixth goal, how­weekend three and a half Regan all weekend. ever, that proved to be most minutes into the final period The Irish lead became 3-1 important--and most exciting. when he took a perfect pass four minutes into the middle It came when Deasey set up from Bellomy on the left wing period when Mark Doman fellow freshman Brent Chap­and left Elliot shaking his head found the cage on a hard man with a nice pass at mid-ice once again. It was the fourth slapshot from directly in front. and Chapman raced down the goal of the series for the senior The Wolverines knotted the risht side on a semi-breakaway. from Grosse Point Shores, score later in the period when H1s first shot caught the far Mich., and it was esJ?ecially they capitalized on two power­post and rebounded at an angle satisfying in li~ht of his self­play opportunities that found back to him before he flipped it termed disappomting season. Perry and Schmidt in the box. past a stunned Elliot. The three 
"I made a decision to play as When Kelly McCrimmon's goals came within three min­if the playoffs were a new low wrist shot beat Laurion at utes of each other, and the season, aQd there was no doubt the 4:17 mark, it looked as if explosion gave the Irish the that I wanted to make up for Michigan had finally grabbed momentum needed to outlast past problems.'' hold of control, and the dog­the battlin~ Wolverines. 
Logan can rectify many prob­fight down the stretch began. The senes left Notre Dame lems if he continues to pick up Rothstein and Logan worked with a 22-14-2 mark and a date the slack from the loss of a a pretty give-and-go play on an with Bowling Green this Satur­wounded Poulin, and to say that Insh powerplay at the expense day in Motown for the CCHA his presence was clearly felt of Elhot once again, and Logan semi-finals. The survivor will would be an understatement -­picked up his second score of play the winner of the Michigan just ask Michigan. the night. State-Michigan Tech game for 
The Wolverines made things With the extra skater on the the right to a berth in the NCAA interesting in the third period ice after another Michigan pen· regionals the following week. when they finally solved Dave Laurion to the tune of three goals, two of which were tallied by Ted Speers. They even 
... Flyers

erased an Irish score when Adam Parson's goal was dis­6-10 Kanieski avenged a poorallowed because of an illegal continued from page 8 performance in last year'sstick at the 10:43 mark, but a Dayton's marksmanship that meetin~ at the ACC (a 70-57) two-goal deficit was as close as proved to be the difference. Irish VIctory) by hitting 11-of­the Wolverines would get. 
UD was outrebounded, 37-30, 14 from the field, many coming Friday's game was a crowd­but its hot shooting carried the from the perimeter, to finishpleaser m its own way, with the team to victory. with a team-high 22 point~·-­
Irish rebounding from a 4-3 third period deficit to score Seniors Mike Kanieski and ''I don't think there was any
Kevin Conrad, both playing
three goals and gain the all­pressure on 'Pax,''' said important first game win. their final regular-season Phelps, "because he won the games at UD Arena, combined
John Schmidt responded to game here two years ago. He 
for 43 points on a remarkable
an early Michigan goal at the had to work more to get good 
20-for-27 from the floor. Junior
11 :06 mark when he fired a high shots, and he w.as havmg a lot 
forward Roosevelt Chapman
shot into the cage for a power­of trouble with their hand­
added 18 points and 12 re·
play score after Bellomy won a checking.
bounds.
draw cleanly and dropped to the "We were hurt by poor shot 
Conrad, who is about as
waiting Irish defenseman. selection and turnovers, and 
unselfish a guard as one will we dido' t get any offensiveLogan put Notre Dame in the ever see, played Paxson even­rebounding. ' ' lead three and a half minutes ly, and added nine assists to go 
In other words, some thingslate!. when Sean Regan broke along with his 21 points. The never change. 
Classifieds  The Observer wtll accept classtfleds Mon­day through Fnday. 10 a.m to 4 30 p.m. However. classtfteds to appear 111 the next tssue must be recetved by 3 p.m. the busmess day pnor to tnsertlon All classtfteds must be prepatd. etther tn person or through the mat I  
PLEASE NOTICE: I lost a berge fur· collared coat at the South drnrng hall onNOTICES] 2122182. Coat of canvas-like mmatenal FOR SALE I I WANTED and made by MAINE GUIDE Any rn· ~------------~ lormalron leadrng to my gellrng rl back wrllDO YOU NEED A GOOD HAIRCUT? be rewarded Please call Kevrn at II03.GUYS $4. GIRLS $6 CALL MICHOLE AT Thank you USED & OUT-PRINT BOOKS bought.7951 Need nde to Houston Texas. for spnng sold. searched ERASMUS BOOKS break If you are headed m that d1rect10n FOUND-Calculator-Call 6815 to rden­lues-Sunday. 12-6 1027 E Wayne (One Experrenced typrsl wrll do typrng. Please please call Trmo at 1782 trfycall287·5162 block south ol Eddy-Jefferson rnlersec­tron I Desperately need a nde for two people to Need ndes for 2 to Prllsburgh for sprrng A watch was found rn the ACC Arena at a Northern Jersey rrghl oil Route 80 Wrll break Call 1171 recent basketball game If rt s yours. SURPLUS JEEPS. CARS. TRUCKS cur­share the usual Call M1ke at 1 181 please call Dom at 3075 rnventory value $2 143 sold $1 00 For GOING TO THE WASHINGTON.D C mlorrnat1on on purchas1ng 51m11ar bargms RIDE NEEDED to Dallas.TX or AREA FOR SPRING BREAK?? A REWARD-LOST GOLD NECKLACE call 602-998-0575 Ext 3648 Call relun­Shreveport LA Please call 289·8955 SECOND DC BUS WILL BE WITH CROSS AT CAMPUS VIEW dable AVAILABLE IF AND ONLY IF 30 OR POOL SENTIMENTAL VALUE Please PLEASE' NEED 2 RIDES TO LOUIS­MORE PEOPLE SHOW UP TONIGHT call283-6954 FOR SALE: GOOD SONY WALKMAN. VILLE CALL 1031 THANK YOU' MARCH 5 AT 7 PM IN FIRST FLOOR GREAT BUY. CALL 239-7494. LAFORTUNE BE EARL Y!IIF YOU CAN­LOST A GREEN NOTRE DAME JACK­NOT MAKE IT. SEND A FRIEND ET AND GREEN NOTRE DAME MIT· TENS LAST SEEN FRIDAY NIGHT IN IF 30 OR MORE PEOPLE SHOW UP THE ALUMNI HALL PARTY ROOM IF TONIGHT MARCH 5 AT 7 PM ON FIRST YOU HAVE THE JACKET OR ANY IN· FLOOR LAFORTUNE. WE CAN GET A FORMATION CONCERNING IT. SECOND D C BUS FOR SPRING PLEASE CALL 1196 BREAK BE THERE! 2 RIDERS WANTED FOR TRIP TO LOST A black standard poodle rn the CHICAGO (LEAVING TODAY BEFORE vrcrnrly of St Joe s Hosprtal Reward! 2 45) CALL BOB AT 1768. Please call 232·6736 or 232·5971 wrth any rnformatron EXPERIENCED TYPIST wrll do typ>ng Found set of keys on astrological keyc­Call 287-5162 harn Call Pat Sprdertrap Johnat3260to rdentrfyILOST/FOUND I -----­---­---------­USED BOOK SHOP HOURS WED NeedRrdefor2toOHareArrport Fn March SAT SUN 9·7 CASPERSON 1303 12 affer I WriiHetpWrthGasBUCHANAN AD NILES LOST BLUE LOOSLEAF FOLDER IN I FOR RENT GALVIN AUDITORIUM ON 2/23 AFTER '-----------....1 Buy and sell your books at Pandora s SAHLINS LECTURE CONTAINED I NEED RIDES FOR 3 PEOPLE AS937 South Bend Avenue. South Bend. IN NOTEBOOK AND PHOTO NEG­CLOSE TO MAINE AS POSSIBLE FOR46617 Telephone 233·2342 Sales on GATIVES CALL BOB AT 3260 FURNIShED HOMES GOOD AREA BREAK MARK 3403 Psychology and Theology thrs week and MATERIAL IS IMPORTANT WALK TO NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YR next--5Go off 2773604 ARE YOU PLANNING TO LIVE IN LUS­LOST: Gnoy overcoat at PE-Stanford CIOUS. TROPICAL TANTALIZING Formal Saturday nrghl If found. please Student housrng-·clean. sale $1 00/mo SOUTH BEND THIS SUMMER? I M call Dave at 3596 291-1405 TICKETS LOOKING FOR ONE FEMALE ROOMMATE TO SHARE A CAMPUS FOUND THE KEY marked 152 rn the Be your own boss Comfortable 5 VIEW APT FROM JUNE TO AUG CALL library lounge affer SLF last week Con­bedroom. completely furnrshed house for Need extra trckets lor graduatrun Call PATTI AT 283-8472. RENT IS ONLY tiC! Dave Barber xB I 09 5 or 6 Close to campus Phone 288-3942 Mark at3008 $145AMONTH  HELPI Need nde to N VIRGINIAIO.C LOOKING FOR AlOE TO SYRACUSE. area for break. Call Jrm 1763 NY AREA FOR SPRING BREAK!' IF YOU CAN HELP CALL STEVE AT 8317-fw~ fun-lovrn~ ~~Is ~eed m1e to PHILLY: WILL SHARE USUAL area for break Please don't leave these g1rls stranded 1n South Bend! We can RIDE NEEDEDII To East Lansrng. leave: poss•bly as early as Wednesday af­Mrcrgan (or nearby) thrs weekend Can ternoon (the 1Oth) We w111 share dnv1ng. leave Fnday Call Mrchele x2721 W•ll expenses and pro111de munch1esr share$$ Thankslll Please call Kwrckr at 3773 NEED TICKETS TO THE ND·MICHIGAN Rrde needed to DAYTON. OHIO lor B-BALL GAME CALL DOUG 1841 spnng break I can leave any time PLEASE call Donna at6771 NEED RIDE FOR BREAK TO SCRAN­TON.PA.BINGHAMTON.NY.OR EMEAGENCYIII Aide needed to either ANYWHERE NEAR EITHER SHARE Ridgewood, N.J., or Nyack N.Y. on or USUALS CALL ED AT 8886 after March 12. Will ohare expenaea and driving time-calf 2114-5127. WANTED 30 OR MORE PEOPLE TO RIDE A SECOND DC BUS FORNEED RIDE TO ROCHESTER NY FOR SPRING BREAK IF INTERESTED.BREAK CAN LEAVE 3·11 CALL PAUL SHOW UP TONIGHT AT 7 PM ON FIRST1037 FLOOR LAFORTUNE TO GET A SEAT BE EARLY. ANO IF YOU CANNOTNEED Rrde to Conn/Mass/At area lor COME. SEND A FRIEND break Wrll Share Expenses Please Call SMC 4785 RIDERS NEEDED TO AND FROM COLORADO OVER SPRING BREAK.Cheese steaks T ast ykakes Hot pretzels Callt570or 3210 for more rnfoMarch rn Phrla I need a nde Call 3468 RIDE NEEDED. EAST ON 1-80 TO Need r1ders to New Jersey that can leave CENTRALPA KAREN 1317Tues March 9 Call Kevon at 1478 R>de needed to Phrladelphra for SprrngNICE GIRL DESPERATELY NEEDS Break w111 share usual Call Rob 1609RIDE WEDNESDAY 3-10 TO EXIT II ALONG OH-TURNPIKE CALL NANCY Need two ndes to Albany. New Yorl<kAT 1282--THANX) Area for the sprrng break Will share the usual Call Brll and George at 1696Need nde or rtders to and from Buffalo th1s weekend March 5th. Call Laura 4673. RIDE AS needed to DAYTON for BBSMC game I Call Pat-8816 Need Rrders Dallas. Austrn Sprrng Break RIDERS NEEDED BACK TO NO FROM Call Dan 272-1684 PHOENIX VIA ALBE· OUERQUE.OK.CITY.ST LOUIS NEED RIDE TO & FROM DETROIT FOR LEAVING AZ 3/20.CALL MARK 8833 BREAK CALL RUSS AT 3373 OR HELEN 4634 BY 2PM 311 0 NEED 2 RIDERS TO CONNECTICUT Ne~d two rrders to TWIN CITIES for FOR BREAK! LEAVING FRIDAY, break Call Bear at 233-2912. leave MARCH 12. CALL BRIAN AT 8394. mesaage I I'll be atranded at Purdue rf I don 1 get a NEED RIDE TO CENRAL JERSEY. Can rrde back fa the beloved Dome on March Ieaiie on Wednesday aflernoon. Will 21 If you can help. call Peg at 1274 · sh~re the usual Call Laura. 4308  

-----------·
-··-·----·~-­
The Observer -Sports Monday, March 8, 1982 -page 6 
End season 

~~~ 
*********************************t 
tSEND OBSERVER PERSONALS t 
* 
* 
* 
* 
*
* 
*
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
*
* 
* 
!* Whether for Birthdays, Congrats, etc. ­* 
~ Observer personals say it best. 
* 

t Available at the Observer office. * 
~ 3rd Door LaFortune 
* 
M ..._.

* on.·.:d. 10-4 
* (only 10' for 7 characters) . 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
*
* 
*
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
*
*
* 
* 
*t * 
* ~ 
: 
* 
: 
*
* 
* 

t********************************l 

Worn.en suffer fifth straight loss 
By MARK HANNUKSELA 
Sports Writer 
Bring down the curtain boys, the folding act is complete. 
Notre Dame's women's basketball team completed its second-half slide Saturday by droppin~ its flfty straight, 68-59 to Mtchtgan State. 
The win was the fourth in a row for the Spartans, and it improved their season record to 15-11. 
The Irish flnish at 16-9, considerably better than the 10-18 mark of a year ago. 
''It was a hard way to end the season,'' Irish Coach Mary DiStanislao said afterwards. "Perhaps our kids can't see the light at the end of the tunnel, yet. If you can, then you just dig harder. But they'll learn.' 
If and when they do in fact learn, they'll have this season's flnal three games to help them. 
Saturday's was the third straisht gam that Notre Dame let sltp through its grasp. After trailing by as much as 13 points on two ocasions in the ftrst half, the Irish rallied, and eventually came withing a point of the Spartans, 56-55, with just over five minutes left. 
The Spartans weathered the storm, however, and went on to score 12 of the game's last 16 P<?ints to come away with the Wlfi. 
''The difference in the game was our inability to stop their runnin~ game," DiStanislao said. 'The biggest atrocity in the game was our poor shot selection on offense. That led to long, uncontested rebounds, and they were able to use them to get the transition game going.'' 
That transition game hurt the Irish more in the last flve inutes than it did at any other time in the game-which was exactly the case in earlier Irish losses to Nebraska and DePaul. Twice in the last minute of the game, the Spartans got free on breaks, and scored three points in the process. 
Michigan State led 65-59 when Deb Traxinger converted a Brenda Jezowski steal into a uncontested layup. Jezowski herself then got loose on a break, and coverted one of two free throws after being fouled by Laura Dougherty. 
Those points hurt, but turnovers and poor shooting hurt worse. 
Notre Dame had one of its poorer performances from the floor, connecting on only 37 percent of its shots. The Irish were a dismal 9-of-27 in the ftrst half, as the Spartans built a 36-27 halftime lead. 
Michigan State's 4o percent average from the floor was right n it's seasonal average. 
Despite its run and gun style Michigan State committed only 11 turnovers in the contest, while the Irish had 23. 
the Spartans built up a big ftrst-half edge in rebounding, but flnished just flve ahead of the Irish (40-35). 
Freshman Mary Beth Schueth lead Notre Dame in scoring, pumping in a career-high 29 points of 11-of-18 shooting from the fleld, and 7-of-9 from the free throw line, a spot Schueth has had a great deal of trouble with this season. 
Schueth also led the Irish with 11 rebunds while playing the entire 40 minutes, promting DiStanislao to rhetorically ask afterwards ''What more can you ask of a kid? 
''mary Beth just played a great game," she added, "and she's only going to get better." 

Carrie Bates and Shari Matvey each added 11 points for the Irish, but didn't do it together. Matvey scored all of her points in the flrst half, while Bates got all of her's in the second. 
Jezowski led the Spartans with 21 points, 10 over her season average. Karen Wells came off the bench to add 13, almost triple her season average. 
Wells hit four of her flrst five shots after entering the game midway through the flrst half. 
Lil Preston, MSU's leading scorer throughout the season, was held to just 10 points, and 2-of-13 shooting from the floor. She did have nine rebounds to lead the Spartans. 
Irish captain Missy Conboy started in her fnal appearance in an Irish uniform. conboy grabbed a rebound and handed out four assists in her 14-minute stint. 
"Missy plyed ~reat," aid DiStanislao. "I hipe the kids lean something from watching how hard Missy works. These last two years, she realized what her effort mean to the team ,and she didn't give up." 
"fter doing something for four years, it's tough to realize that you're doing it for the last time," Conboy said. "Never 

The Observer====================================~ 



~4[)CJ(~~====================M=o=nd=ay=,M=M=c=h=8,=19=8=2;=pa=ge=7
Molarity Michael Molinelli 



Doonesbury 


MY &f)f70R5 ANP I HAV& IJCC{M; 7H& KE£1'51~5 OF 7H13 KJ5SIN6tR R.AM&. II/&W!E CW HIM, tiltClN5IL HIM, MJIVOI?SH!PRJ/..I..Y 7J?ACXH/5 e~Y MOVE. H/5 VIW OF HISTORY, 7{)IUHICH /VeHOI.PAU 7JEPI6H75, IS (j()Sf&t.-1/Nt.XAM/N&PANP f IMMACtJIJITl3. 


Simon 
WHRI ARE YOO b\~6 ' 

I 
THE Daily Crossword 
By Bernice Gordon 

©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 

25 Drenched 28 Knight, e.g. 32 "Father of 
television" 33 Diagram 34 Mouths 35 Dam's mate 36 Desk items 37 Felt 
remorse 38 Terminus 39 Call 40 Midler 
or Davis 41 Eaglet, 
for one 43 Correlative 44 Subterfuge 45 -Spumante 46 Sufficient· 
ly early 49 Meant 

Campus 
12:15 p.m. ·· Lenten Mass, Fr. Griffin, Basement of LaFortune. 4:30-5:30 p.m.-· Lecture, Ana Maria Matute, Galvin Auditorium, reception following. 
6 p.m. ·· Reconciliation Service, Regina Chapel, sponsored by Saint Mary's College Campus Ministry. 
7 p.m. -· Film, "El Salvador: Country in Crisis,'' LaFortune Little Theatre, sponsored by The Central America Awareness Media Series 
7 p.m. ·· Meeting, Internship Prospects 1982-83, 120 O'Shaughnessy Hall, sponsored by Department of Sociology and Anthropology 
7 p.m ... Auditions, "The Card Index," by Tadeusz Rozewicz, SMC Little Theater 
8 p.m. -· Film, "Obsessions," Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art, sponsored by the Department of Communication and Theatre, $1 admission 
8 p.m... WSND-FM Radio, Boston Sym­phony 
9:15p.m.--Film, "Every Man for Himself," Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art, sponsored by Department of Communication and Theatre, $1 admission 
Garry Trudeau 
JebCashin 


Today in History 
Today's highlight in history: 
In 1965, the United States landed 3,500 Marines in Vietnam. On this date: In 1917, riots and strikes broke out in St. 
Petersburg, marking the beginning of the Russian Revolution. 
In 1973, Northern Ireland violence spread to London, where automobile bombs exploded outside the Old Bailey, killing one person and injuring many others. 
In 1979, President Jimmy Carter began the Middle East peace mission that led to the signing of the Egyptian-Israeli peace treaty. 
Ten years: President Nixon signed an executive order limiting secrecy surrounding federal documents and restricting the power of officials to classify them. 
Five years ago: Spokesmen for President Caner announced he would visit London in May for an economic conference with leaders from six other industrialized nations. 
One year ago: About 3,000 people partici­pated in a Solidarity rally at Warsaw Univer­sity. --AP. 

.. 
· 
... 
ACROSS 1 Cordage plant 5 Large 
rodents 10 Merganser 14 Causing 
harm 15 Kind of 
squash 16 Nimbus 17 First-rate 18 Famous 
residence 20 Attorney's lee 22 Lofty abodes 23 Double ripper 24 Part of a revue 
53 Moroccan port 55 River in 
Zaire 56 Common abbr. 
57 Authorof "The Waste Land" 
58 Biblical twin 59 Diana of films 60 Keaton 
of films 61 "-of the fathers" 
DOWN 1 Give audi· enceto 2 Greek cry 3 Philadel· 
phia estab· 
lishment 4 Delight 5 Deposited 
in pledge 6 Hankered 7 Coconut 
fiber 8 Buchwald 9 Footwear 
10 Wearing apparel 11 Island 
of Hawaii 12 Otherwise 13 Troubles 19 Steal 

21 "-Three 
Lives" 24 Figure 25 Creator of 
"PeerGynt" 26 Augusta's state 27 Flickers, for example 28 Dynasty 
in China 29 Opening 30 Crested 
ridge 31 Consumerist 
Ralph 33 Offspring 36 Clear-cut 37 Groups of 
servants 39 Vertical 40 Chew 42 Court 
proceedings 43 Manor 45 Architec· 
tural 
bracket 46 Chilled 47 Treaty 
group 48 Autocrat 49 Genusol 
cetaceans 50 Arnaz 51 Joie de 
vivre 52 -ex machina 54 MacGraw 


Monday, March 8, 1982 -page 8 

leers s-weep Michigan, go to CCHA semis 
By MICHAEL OLENIK previous night's one-goal ad­
Sports Writer vantage, the Irish came out on Saturday and put Michigan 
With chants of "DEE-trait, away the hard way. DEE-troit'' echoing through the Playing with a hobbled Dave North Dome of the ACC, the Poulin and without an injured Notre Dame hockey team Dan Collard, Smith's crew put wrapped up a two-game sweep together a five-goal binge and 11-8 total goal advantage before Michigan scored almost over the Michigan Wolverines four minutes into the third to advance to the Joe Louis period. And although the Wol­Arena for the CCHA conference verines scared the Irish with championships next weekend. two more tallies in the next six 
The Irish earned their second minutes, the outcome of the trip to Detroit this season by series seemed to be decided in beating the Wolverines in al­the first period of play. most every aspect of the game It was after Rex Bellomy's in both Friday night's 6-5 win goal off of a pretty feed from and Saturday's 5-3 triumph. ] eff erry at the 16:54 mark that The sweep did nothing but Notre Dame tightened the belts clarify the team's sight on the and broke the backs of an NCAA championship to be de­increasingly frustrated Mich­cided three weeks down the igan club. 
Ifthe Michigan goalie appears lost and 

road in Providence, R.I. With ] ohn Deasey in the
confused, those were the sentiments ofthe 

To say the least, that road qiH penalty box for slashing just 16
entire Michigan hockey team this weekend. 

be especially difficult, but to seconds later, the Wolverines Irish co-captain and series were provided the opportunity standout ] eff Logan, this team to get right back in the game may be as ready as any team i and the series with a two­
Close at 10-17 
Notre Dame history to handle minute man advantage. Bill such a task. Rothstein shattered those "We are a very excited team hopes, however, when he

Paxson, Irish top Wolverines ... 
that is pulling together more picked up a loose puck on the and more," said Lo~an. "And side boards and put a hard shot that's exactly what lt will take between Elliot's pads for a key
By SKIP DESJARDIN way we didn't let down after IRISH ITEMS-A surprising to get us a shot at the National short-handed goal. 
Sports Editor losmg to Dayton. That's the crowd of 14,445 packed the 
Championship." That wasn't enough forPONTIAC, Mich.-''Anybody way these guys have been all Silverdome's lower concourse ALthough such thoughts Logan, though, as he stole the
who thinks John Paxson has to year. They've handled difficult for the game ... A problem with could be seen as premature, it puck behind the Michigan net score 30 pomts in order for this season with a lot of class." the clock in the fnal 11 secnds would be a mistake to discount and skated in front before 
., team to win 1S dead wrong," caused heated discussion from 
the possibility of Notre Dame beating Elliott with a high wrist 
Digger Phelps said in Nov-The Irish fnish 10-17, but had both sides. "That's what 
making a serious run at the shot that set the 2,806 vocalvember. But yesterday he to struggle for the last win. happens when you get a title, as the team continues to Irish supporters into delerium.
learned it sure doesn't hurt. They played in spurts in the veteran coach against a rookie, progress with each passing The play came only one minutePaxson played the finest gave second half, shutting out the " said Frieder, who lost both weekend. after Rothstein's score, and itof his career, scoring the magic wolverines 10-0 through one arguments ... Notre Dame was Michigan felt the brunt of the was the second short-handed30 points while leading Notre stretch, but being outscored 8-2 plagued by 21 turnovers ... 
latest improvements through­goal during Deasey's penance. 
Dame to a stirring 53-52 win as time slipped away in the fmal Wolverines shot just 38 percent out the series, and although The secon stanza featured a over Michgan in the season three and a half minute from the floor in the secnd half Friday's game was in serious series of penalties that amount­fmale for both teams. 
and went 6:12 without a point in question until the final horn, ed to little, and it wasn't until many
''You saw today why Pax will As they had so times one stretch ... Seere bronchitis the Irish forced the ation for the the 18: 17 mark that ] oe Bowie 
over the corse of the season,

be a first-team All-American prevented Marc Kelly from majority of play. made a big play by stealing a
missed free throws nearly cost

next year," Phelps told rep­making the fmal career.,. It was Saturday, however, Michigan outlet pass at the
Notre Dame the game. Barry

orters. "By the end of next Former Irish stars Kelly that the Irish showed the char­blue line and blasting a shot 
spencer, Tim Andree and Bill 

season, he'll be as/ood as any Tripucka and Bil Laimbeer, acter that the coaches and over Elliot's left shoulder for
Varner all went to the Line and 

I 
player we've ha at Notre both with the NBA's Detroit players have spoken of somissed the front ends of
Dame." Pistons now, were at courtside. frequently. Clinging to the See HOCKEY, page 5 
one-and-one opportunities in The high praise came after the last 1:20. Paxson turned in a performance 
.., that cold only have been better ' 'The local kids were excited to had it come Saturrday before be here, so they missed th eir 
... after loss to Flyers, 79-72
his hometown fans. shots," Phelps joked. '"i told Barry he could be the star and
The numbers speak for By CHRIS NEEDLES one.'' too late.
he missed. o I didn't say

themselves. Besides the 30 Associate Sports Editor All season long, Dayton has "A 'chaser' always bothers
anythin~ to Andree. He mis~ed

points, on 12-for-17 shooting Jived and died by its outside me," said Paxson. "But I'm
too, whtch tells you somethmg

from the floor and six-for-sever DAYTON, Ohio --On Friday shooting. On Saturday, the not even sure what their
about coaching strategy.''

from the line, Paxson pulled night here at UD Arena, Arch­Flyers couldn't miss, hitting 68 defense was today. (Paul) down six rebounds, dished out bishop Alter High School of percent from the floor in Hawkins would be wtth me (as
Notre Dame had a five-point

three assists, blocked one shot nearby Kettering, the No. 1 streaking to a 40-24 halftime the "chaser"), but then he
lead with 2:48 to go when the

and had two steals. His only team in the state, was elim­advantage. drop into zone
wolverines made their fmal run. would off a 
foul came with one second on inated from the state champ­In the second half, Dayton when I'd come off a screen.
Michigan captian Thad Garner 

the clock nd forced' the ionship playoffs. extended its lead to as much as We haven't seen anything like
hit a free throw, then took a

Wolverines to try a Perhaps it was an omen. 22 points (62-40) before ND it this year."
beautiful lead pass off a Mich­

desperation play as the buzzer The next afternoon, former came back against the UD Irish guard Mike Mitchell,
igan trap agianst Paxson and

sounded. Alter standout and now Notre secon-stringers to make the who finished with 12 points,
went in for a dunk. Andree was 

Dame All-American John final score look respectable. had a better view, but wascalled for travelling and a
"paxson was tremendous," Paxson had just about as much For the game, Dayton (19-8 on equally confused. ''I think ·
blocking foul, and Mitchell

said Michi~an Coach Bill success in his homecoming. A the season) hit on 61 percent of what they did," said the Irish
threw the ball away, but the

Frieder. 'He made a unique defensive arrangement its field goal attempts. captain, ''was switch into a
Wolverines could manage only

phenomenal shot wheq we went by Dayton held Paxson in ''They were very hot from man-to-man, and then a box­
a single point. 

ahead in the last seconds. check for over half the game, the outside," said Phelps, and-one, and then back. It which was more than enough "and we couldn't crack their really threw us off.''
"We played a good man-to­"We got absolutely no 
time to allow the Flyers to outside shooting. Once you get Before Paxson finally got his 
man against him, and we used breaks, " said Frieder, whose breeze to a 79-72 victory over in one of those grooves, you game going --scoring 12 of hisguard club finished the season 7-20.
three different guys to the Irish before a sellout crowd can't do anything wrong." points in the last 7:30 of the
him. To tell you the truth, he "We had a chance for three 
of 13,4)5 at UD Arena. Both Paxson was given a standing contest --Notre Dame keptgets open even easier against three-point plays and got only 
the final margin of victory and ovation when he was intro­within shooting distance onlythe zone." one point out of it all.'' 
Paxson's tot! of23 points were, duced, and from the outset was because of a solid effort byto say the least, deceiving. looking to make good for the forward Bill Varner. The 6-7
The game marked the end of 
Paxson's baselne jumper with "Dayton's a very ,~ood home folks. But Paxson, who junior had his best game of the Mike Mitchell's career a Notre 
21 seconds left wrapped it up, team," said Irish Coach I'tgger has seen just about every season, pumping in 16 pointsDame. the man Phels has as the Irish wisely used their Phelps, whose team dro•,ped to conceivable defense thrown at and grabbing a game-high 14called the most courageous remaining common fouls to eat 9-17 with the Michiga•. contest him this yar --box-and-one, rebounds. Center Tim Andreeplayer he's ever coached scored up the clock. still to play (see rel .ted story 1-3-1, a "chaser," and even a chipped in 12 points on 6-for-8JUSt four points, but typically page 8). "I jr likf'. their blatant double-team at Indiana shooting to aid the cause. 
came up with four assists. "We had our chance~.md we l
outside shootinf can't see --couldn't solve UD Coach Don But, eventually, it was "It's been an interesting let it get away," said Frieder. why they won't 5et an NCAA DOocher's attempt to control 
See FLYERS, page 5

year," said Phelps. "I like the "It's about as simple as that." bid, because they deserve him, at least not until it was 



