
VOL. XVII, NO. 5 the independt:nt student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's FRIDAY;SEPTEMBER 3, 1982 
Students readmitted after drug suspension 
came forward and admitted (to theBy GREGORY SWIERCZ allegations)," Roemer said. When
News Staff 
hearing ofthe responses, the Univer­sity took action, he said.
Nearly all of the 17 Notre Dame "We allowed the students to finish st\ldents involved in the drug use the semester. They were dismissed
controversy last semester in the foreign studies program were read­in the summer, and we allowed mitted to the University this fall. them to submit essays" for readmit­
According to James A. Roemer, tance, he said. dean of students, 1 5 of the 17 stu­The petitions consisted of essays dents suspended as the result of a written to Roemer and other admis­
probe by University officials last sions personnel stating reasons for February have submitted satisfuc­readmitting the students. tory petitions for readmittance. The students were not allowed to 
pre-register, which denied the stu­
Out of the 22 students inves­dents ofon-campus housing. The ad­
tigated, 17 were Notre Dame ministration, put
students, four were from Saint however, some 
readmitted students on the housingMary's College, and one attended waiting list. 
Holy Cross Junior College. 
The dean expressed concern withThe four Saint Mary's students drug abuse overseas by the foreignwere also readmitted. 
studies students, because foreignRoemer said the incident began laws contain stiffer penalties forearly last semester when the foreign drug offenses.
studies directors were tipped off Roemer said foreign laws are dif­about hashish use by the Innsbruck ferent from American law in thatand Angers students. 
prison terms are much more"The Austrian authorities were prevalent with drug charges. He said never involved," he said. "The inci­if authorities make an arrest, refusal dent was a University matter." 
to answer to a drug charge, a rightRoemer said the foreign studies protected by the U.S. Constitution,
directors, once learning of the drug use, approached the students and does not exist in foreign penal asked them to come forward and of­
codes. Prison terms are more strict Palestinian guerillas, with their wives and fer any information on the extent of and freely given. children, make the "v sign"from atop a Lebanese the drug use problem. Roemer said the honesty of the army truck in Beirut. The group was on their way "In an honest way, the students students involved prompted a lenient attitude by the University. But he added the problem with drug use at home and abroad is a growing concern. 
Last year, the Campus Life Council debated and passed motions to change the regulations on drug use 

SMC library dedication ceremony today 
By MARGARET FOSMOE Father William E. McManus, Bis­chairman . of the Board of Regents; facilities, a media center, computer inDu Lac, making the use or sellingSaintMary's ExecutiveEditor hop of the Fort Wayne-South Bend Sister M. Bernice Hollenhorst, direc­terminals and a 24-hour study area of marijuana a University violation.
Diocese, will bless the building, and tor of the library; Alana M. Rosshirt, linked to an underground tunnel 
Previous Du Lac regulations stated
Dedication ceremonies for Saint Dr. Elizabeth Kennan, president of president of the alumnae associa­leading to LeMans Hall. that the hall judiciary councils had
Mary's new $7 million Cushwa­Mount Holyoke College, will tion; and Kathleen Murphy, student Groundbreaking for the Cushwa­authority to deal with drug usc: of­Leighton library take place this address the gathering. Also present body president. · Leighton, the seventh library in Saint fenses. The new regulation states~morning. will be CongressmanJohn Hiler. The ceremonies are open to the Mary's history, occurred October that the University will handle drugThe ceremonies will begin on the The program will include remarks public. 17, 1980. It replaced the Alumnae: usc: and dealing violations. 
west lawn of the library at 11:30 from Dr. John M. Duggan, president After the ceremonies and a picnic Centennial Library, which is soon to Roemer said the: University has a.m., following a 9:30 a.m. Mass of of the College; Dr. William A. Hick­for fuculty, staff and students, the undergo renovation to become a handled "a significant number" ofThanksgiving in the Holy Spirit ey, vice president and dean of the library will be open for tours from 2 student center. 
drug-related student offenses inChapel ofLeMans Hall. faculty; _Sister Mary Jane Honan, to4p.m. The Cushwa-Leighton Library was recent years. The administration dis­
Completed this summer, the financed through private contribu­misses students who pass on or sell
Cushwa-Leighton Library has a tion and designed by Evans-Woolen seating capacity of540, and includes Associates of Indianapolis. The Sol­marijuana, while the punishment for drug usc: is somewhat lessened.
Protesters riotfor 
three floors and first and second litt Construction Company of South mezzanine levels that total more Bend served as construction Roemer also said this year the: has­. than 78,000 square feet of space. manager for the project. hish incident has intensified the The new library also houses a collec­The building was named in honor awareness of the seriousness of

secondday in Poland !. 
tion of more than 250,000 volumes of two longtime supporters of the overseas drug usc:. and 775 bound periodicals, the Col­College, Margaret Hall Cushwa and The: contracts signed by students
WARSAW, Poland (AP) _:. Protes­dozen other Polish cities on May 3, studying abroad have: been stressedlege archives and a rare book room Mary Lou Morris. Special recogni­ters hurling firebombs and stones and violence erupted periodically in more, Roemer said. 
that contains a Dante collection. tion will be: given to Cushwa, Morris, rampaged through the streets of June, July and August. Police used "With nearly half of the 44 stu-The Cushwa-Leighton Library also and to Sister M. Rita Claire Lyons,Lubin in the second day of rioting in high-pressure water to break up features conference: rooms, study who served as Saint Mary's headsupport of the suspended Solidarity protests in Warsaw in late: August, See HASH, page 6carrels, several lounges, microfilm librarian from 1938 until 1976. 
labor union, the official news agency and there was a major protest Aug. PAP reported yesterday. 13 in Gdansk, the Baltic seaport 
Wednesday's riots followed a day where: Solidarity was born. of street violence in a score ofcities In Lubin, PAP reported, "several Tuesday that press reports indicated hundred" people gathered in early 
Begin rejects Reagan'splan
were the most widespread since morning and began to march on the martial law was imposed last Dec. ·communist Party headquarters. It 
JERUSALEM (AP)-Prime Minis-cupic:d territory and Palestinian Bank) and hand the rule: over to
13. said the group "grew and grew" as ter Menachem Begin's government autonomy in association withJordan him," it said. "Thus would come into·The Communist Party Politburo the day progressed. 
angrily rejected P.resident Reagan's -deviate from or contradict the.. being a Palestinian state whichmet yesterday and condemned the Radio Warsaw said in a broadcast Palestinian plan yesterday, declaring Camp David accords, the 1978 would conclude a pact with Sovietnationwide rioting. monitored in London, "Barricades it would enable PLO chief Yasser framework governing negotiation of Russia and arm its.c:lfwith every kindPAP said security forces killed two were built of refuse and dust bins. 
Arafut to take over the West Bank the Palestinian question. ofmodem weaponry.
protesters in Lubin Tuesday, while The international book and pr.c:ss 
and launch "an onslaught against Is-The communique said the "... Then a joint front would be es­more than 130 protesters and police club, located in the town hall, was rael" with Soviet and Arab support. proposals "could create a serious tablished of that 'Palestinian state'officers were injured and 4,050 set on fire. A fire engine was pelted The Cabinet's unanimous rejec-danger to Israel, its security and its with Jordan and Iraq behind her, ' people were arrested in Wroclaw, with stones and petrol bombs. 
tion ofthe new U.S. poiicy appeared future," and the government Saudi Arabia to the south and Syria toKrakow, Czestochowa, Gdansk, Damage is extensive." 
to put Israel and the United States on "resolved that on the basis of these the north. All these countries, to­Lubin and other cities. PAP said several buildings were a long-expected collision course positions it will not enter into any gether with other Arab states,Authorities promised swift burned before "determined action" over-the Palestinian issue. But· the negotiations with any party." would, after a while, launch anpunishment for rioters and stopped the violence after nightfall. 
Reagan administration said it was "Were the American plan to be onslaught against Israel to destroythreatened to crack down on sup­"It's calm now," said a Lubin fac­"not surprised or disappointed" at impemented, there would be no­her.... " porters of Solidarty, who had called tory worker, who was reached by Israel's initial rebuff. thing to prevent Gordan's) King The Begin government wasfor massive protests to mark the telex yesterday since telephone A long Cabinet communique Hussein from inviting his new-found reported to be furious that thesuspended union's second anniver­lines remained cut. "That's all we argued that the proposals -calling . friend, Yasser Arafut, to come tosary Tuesday. 
See POLAND, page 7 for a freeze on settlement in oc-Nablus (the biggest city on the West See BEGIN, page 6 Riots engulfed Warsaw and a 



! 
f 


NewsBriels 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
A former General Motors Corp. stenographer who said she was fired after dropping an idea on equality for women into a com· pany suggestion box has been awarded Sll9,985 in damages and back pay. Cynthia King, 25, won the award Tuesday in Wayne County Circuit Court, six years after her dismissal She said that in 1976 she suggested that since all male GM executives were addressed as "mister" by the women in her office, the stenographers and secretaries should be addressed with a courtesy title by the men. She also noted that men's nameplates bore their first two initials and last names, while the women's nameplates had first and last names. GM said in court that Ms. King's work had been unsatisfactory and there was no evidence ofse:• discrimination, and it would appeal. ­
AP 

A Breen-Phillipshall monitor looked out the window at 3:10 a.m. yesterday and saw two young black males stealing bikes between B-P and Farley. A chase ensued and one of the suspects, aged 16, was apprehended at the Athletic and Convocation Center after a brief struggle. The suspect was holding a bag containing bolt cutters. The security report lists two students as complaintants in the case. Security still has a confisuted bike which is registered in Batavia, N.Y. Two students informed the monitor of the thefts and assisted in the cooperative effort to capture the thiefs. Security urges 
students to check the bike racks often, even if they do not ride fre· quently. -The Observer 
Three UniversityofMassachusetts freshmen were killed when their compact car swerved into the wrong lane and struck a utility pole, which sliced through the car. Police Chief Donald Mala said speeding appeared to be the cause of the crash Wednesday night. He said autopsies and blood tests would be conducted to check for alcohol consumption. Officer Jim Jackson identified the dead as driver Patrick Farmer of Amherst, Meg Dolan of North Quincy and Brigitte Judge of Minneapolis. All were 20 and were to begin classes next week. "It was the most tragic accident ever here. We have never had three people die in a crash," Mala said yesterday. 
-AP 

A Saudi billionairewho lives in Miami and has a reputa· 
tion for spreading around his money has been invited to visit 
Cleveland by unanimous vote ofthe City Council. Shiek Mohammed 
ai-Fassi, 27, has said he will gladly visit any city which invites him, so 
the council passed the measure Tuesday night. "I don't think we can 
be so arrogant as to turn up our noses to someone seeking our 
friendship," said Councilman Gary Kucinich, a sponsor ofthe resolu· 
tion. 'James Neff, a columnist for The Plain Dealer, wrote in the 
newspaper's editions yesterday that he contacted Fassi, who said, "I 
am going to listen to my advisers and do it right away, because I am 
aware of the problems Cleveland has. We are going to take serious 
action in Cleveland, Ohio. I will buy a home there and have a place to 
rest and relax when I come there to check my investments." Fassi 
intends to donate up to S 100,000 to the city and invest a few million 
in local industry, Neff said. -AP 
Former astronautJames Irwin, just back from a fruitless ground search for Noah's Ark, says he may return to Turkey's Mount Ararat this month and make an aerial search. Irwin talked ofhis plans at a news conference at his office at High Flight, the Christian evan­gelical foundation that sponsored his trip. 'He wore a baseball cap to hide scars and shaved head resulting fm injuries suffered in a fall on the mountain. He lost four teeth and had surgery above his right eye and sutures on his scalp. "I still feel weak and have to take medica· tion, but I'm anxious to return to Turkey if it is possible," he said. He said he believes the ark is somewhere at the 14,000-foot level and could be discovered from a helicopter or high-altitude airplane. Bad weai:her prevented an aerial search in August, Irwin said. The 11-day expedition cost about SSO,OOO and Irwin said most of the money was donated by friends from Germany. -AP 
MichelangelO Ant0ni0ni said Thursday he will shoot his next film, The Crew, in the United States using American actors. It will be the Italian director's second film in the United States. The first was ZabriskiePoint in 1970. "I can tell you that most ofthe film will take place on the sea, duringstorms orwhen it's calm. It's a violent story, but it also has humorous passages," Antonioni told the Italian news agency ANSA "It's a long and difficult film and it's difficult to shoot." Antonioni, 70, also is known for Blow Up, a 1966 film about a British photographer. -AP 
Partlysunnytoday, breezy and cool. High in low 70s. Clear Friday night and cool. Low around 50. Tomorrow, mostly sunny and . pleasant. High in mid 70s. Outlook for Sunday and Labor Day: Partly cloudy with a chance for sho.wers on Monday. -AP 
Friday, September 3, 1982 -page 2 
Spirit of a Nation 
As Notre Dame's first night footbaU game approaches, 
with all the accompanying fanfare and controversy, and 
as news reports fill with allegations of code violations 
by colleges, athletes and coaches, ilt's time to examine 
the role ofsport in our lives. 
Moses Malone has just signed an "offer sheet" to play basketball with the Philadelphia 76,ers for ten times as much money each year as the president of our nation makes; Pete Rozelle, commissioner ofthe NFL, is trying to rewrite the nation's anti-trust legislation; the Univer­sity ofSan Francisco has dropped its ll>asketball program after years of NCAA investigations and penalties; and convicts are set free -as long as they are blue-chip athletes to boot. 
These facts indicate an improper emphasis on sport in this country. The most frightening aspect ofall this is that it is not only on the upper levds of competition that the problem arises. Indeed, on that level, where sport becomes an entertainment business, the added emphasis is more understandable. 
The greatest cause for worry is when the same ferocity and disregard for the social order carries over to the playground level 
I must admit that I have never learned to play games in the Queensbury tradition. 
The most vile feelings I have ever harbored toward an· other human being came about in play. 
I was involved in a supposed basketball game, which was, in actuality, a shouting and shoving match. I could live with the shoving, even though I didn't like it. But in the midst of the shouting someone made a comment about a very important part of my life. 
He probably thought the 

remark funny, and I might 
have, too, except that I 
spend about 65 hours a 
week with the group he in­
sulted. Sticks and stones may break bones, but words about friends go right to the core. 
With his remark, the game had ended for me, and a war had begun. The weapons were a basketball, a bitter tongue and a harsh vocabulary; tht: warriors were ten angry men, playing a game. 
When that game was over, I couldn't shake anyone's hand. We hadn't played basketball. I thought about that for a long time. I realized how much I had been provoked by a foolish thing said in the heat ofa contest, and I wondered what could have provoked him to say the thing in the first place. 
At the time, I couldn't really understand why a playground basketball game had bt:come such a bitter conflict. 
That same day, I watched Coach Herb Brooks accept ABC-TV's Athlete of the Year Award for the entire U.S. Olympic hockey team, gold medalists at Lake Placid. 
Brooks said that the players won the award through a unity of purpose and action, adding that their success was indicative ofthe "work ethic th:at made (the United 

':*******~***************.~··~··**~ 
~: Position open for l 
Design Editor ...................... Maura Murphy Design Assistant ..................... Kay Holland 
* * 
Typesetters ............Joe, Bruce, Brian, Teri, 
i ACCOUNTSRECEIVABLE CLERK }
Pradip, and Tom NewsEdltor ............................ Mike Wilkins Copy Editor .................................. Tim Neely Features Layout...................)oe Musemeci Editorials Layout .........................joe again Supplement LayoutJoe & Rachel & Mike 
..,.. ~ 

Sports Copy£dltor.................. Ed Konrady 
* 

Typist ........................................... Chris Perry ND Day Editor................... Tim Vercellotti 
.•

Ad Design ................................... Bob & Fran Pbotograpber .. RacheL my love, how are 
. 

you? 
• ~ 

Guest Appearances ............................... Griff 
•

raccoons 
absent ones 
no rent 
i l~pplications will be accepted---: 
:i

The Obaerver (USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Friday and on home footbalt Saturdays. except 
* 

dunng exam and vacatiOn penods The 
:

Observer 1s published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary s Col· lege Subscnpllons may be purchased 
i•for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnllng The Obaerver. P 0 Box a 

States) great." 

I apologize to any who might be offended, but that sentiment scares me to death. What happened to games? 
What madness drives us to this? Is it really the spirit that made a nation great that sets that nation aflame be· cause twenty young men play a game better than twenty young foreigners? 
Yes, I know that it was a beautiful moment when the underdog U.S. team won the gold medal before a nation of admirers -I know the high emotion that can be evoked by a single victory. 
Still, what have we done to games? Who plays in a nation that believes a hockey team reflects the work ethic that brought that country international 
prominence? 

The absence of play is everywhere in evidence: 
•Do 
we really care that East Germany wins more Olympic medals than the United States? The athletes and committees constantly clamoring for U.S. training setups similar to the East Germans really care -they don't lose games, they lose face for their country in the eyes ofthe world. 

•Is 
it really important that the Fighting Irish have not won an NCAA basketball title despite nearly a decade of tourney appearances (except for last year)? The critics find this record to be 


a major failure of Digger Phelps' coaching tenure. It is not sufficient to come and see; one must also conquer. Heaven forbid that the football team should win less than half its games. 
• Has Bookstore Basketball come ofage when players pout and moan to the point ofejection from the tourna­ment, when fans hound a referee and when an an­nouncer humiliates a player who has supposedly "choked?" Maybe Bookstore is bigger than we think, as Observer writers have suggested -maybe it reflects the attitude that made America great. 
Perhaps the connection between my loss of temper and a nation's attitude toward sport is tenuous, but I fear that it is not. I fear that we are a nation weaned on com­petition and bred for contention. I fear that it is not the constructive aspect of this attitude that prevails. I fear, too, that the point is too old md the subject too belabored for anyone to heed me. 
More importantly, I fear that there will come a time when I will not be able to control this "spirit ofa nation" that burns within me. 
· _at : 
a~--. 
. ..



·Ib 1* 
=--=~e=--=-~---==-er. :
*
..
..
*
*
* 
· Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 

• * 
The Obaerver 1s a member of The AssociMed Press All reproduction 
!:see: Tony Aiello, BusinesSMGR. i
nghts are reserved Second class postage pa1d at Noire Dam~. lnd1ana 46556 


·1····••**************************~ 
from Mon-A-ug 30 -Fri Sep. 3 : ·at 3rd floor· LaFortune } 
..

: 

$$PAID POSITION $$ 
i* 

A group of students enjoys the Lyons-Morrissey big sister little brother get together picnic bela yesterday behind the two dorms. (Photo by Rachel Blount) 

Judge finds crime preventton tmportant 
By KATHLEEN DOYLE 
SeniorStaffReporter 
Prevention is amore effective and 
less costly method of dealing with 
juvenile crime and delinquency, 
according to john Gonas, former 
judge of the juvenile court in South 
Bend. 
In 1955, during his term as judge, 
Gonas was invited to participate in 
the United Nations World Con­
ference on Juvenile Crime and 
Delinquency in Geneva, Switzer­
land. The objective of the con­
ference was to develop a preventive 
program that would deter the· 
juvenile crime that all countries 
were facing. Gonas returned to 
South Bend after the conferen.;:e and 
unofficially started the newly­
formed program in St. Joseph 
County after personally training 25 
co-workers. 
After the prevention program was implemented, the Health, Educa­tion, and Welfare Department analyzed the crime rate in eight In­diana counties. When the crime rate of St. Joseph County was compared to that of Adam County, a county similar in size, it appeared that the prevention program had decreased juvenile crime. At one point in Gonas' term, Adam County reported 501 juvenile offenses while St. Joseph County reported a mere 63. 
The prevention programs Gonas 

ALL THIS WEEK 
BBQ BEEF SANDWICH 

TODAY: Huddleburger wIcheese Fries Coke 
only$2.50 

OUPOFTHEDAY: Beanw/Bacon 

......................... 
utilized included a follow-up on 
truancy reports and a unique educa­
tional course for parents of juvenile 
offenders. These programs and 
others were discontinued when 
Gonas left office. 
"It costs the taxt>ayers 520,000 per year to maintain a juvenile offen­der in reform school," Gonas said. "Nine out of ten of these will go to prison later, after leaving reform . school. Prevention is a less ex­pensive and more effective method of dealing with juvenile delin­quency." 
Gonas is now attempting to obtain national publicity for prevention programs. He has appeared on local television shows and will soon be speaking on a show in Scranton, Pennsylvania. 
A frequent lecturer in sociology classes at Notre Dame and St. Mary's, Ganas has written two books on juvenile delinquency, The Chi/a ana the Court. and Delinquency: There's. an Answer. He is currently working on a third book, Over Fifty Years in Politics. 

"------------­Friday, September 3, 1982-page 3 
Before AT&T Breakup 
Consumersfa~e higher bills 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Con­sumers across the country are facing the prospect of sharply higher local telephone bills -in some cases more than a doubling -even before many local telephone companies count the cost ofseparatingfrom the Bell System. 
A survey by The Associated Press 
has found what appears to be a 
record dollar amount ofrate hike re­
quests now pending before state 
utility commissions -an estimated 
$6.2 billion in annual revenues. 
Telephone trade groups and 
regulators believe that's a record to­
tal, though suchshifting statistics are 
difficult to tabulate. Rate increases 
Teenager guiltyin Boston 
BOSTON (AP)-A black couple 
testified yesterday that a white 
teenager under court order not to 
harass his black neighbors exposed 
himself, urinated and made obscene 
gestures at them. 
The state asked Suffolk Superior 
Court Chief justice james Lynch to 
find Michael Gaine, 18, of Boston, in 
contempt of court. Prosecutors 
sought a $1,000 fine and asix-month 
jail sentence. 
Gaine was one of eight white 
youths who consented to an Aug. 19 
court order forbidding them from 
harassing blacks in the racially 
troubled blue-collar neighborhood· 
ofRoss Field. 
Describing the events on Aug. 22, 
Charles and Bertha Brooks and a 
friend, Debra L. Stewart, said they 
were standing in the Brooks' yard 
when Gaine slowly passed by and 
looked at them, then joined a group 
of young men and women in the 
park. The witnesses said Gaine came 
back toward them and stood in the 
park about 25 yards away, where he 
he exposed himself, gestured and 
shouted, "Hey, Bertha." 
Mrs. Brooks said Gaine's voice 
"was loud, 'nasty, mean and full of 
hate." 
The court order forbidding 
harassment was the first test of the 
civil provisions of the state's 1980 
Civil Rights Act. The case was 
brought July 9 by the state attorney 
general's office on behalf of several 
black families who claimed they had 
been harassed by the men. 
Lynch's order forbids the youths 
from stoning, firebombing or other­
wise intimidating their black neigh­bors. It also prevents them from meeting each other for one year in . certain sections of the neighbor­
hood. 
F weLcome sack 




sttioents 
j· 

LET US SHOW YOU THE WORLD~! 
• ~om__puterlz_ed Airline ReservGtlons e AmttGck Tickets e United Limo 1~_kets to ChlcGgo e· Tou11 Gnd Cruises -· NoChGrge-for Our Services·. e ffiGjor Credit CGrda-Accepted 
Badin Hall

~source..:Travel  233-7080 ·New Library-Office  
First Source Center  239-66~2.  
; South Bend, IN  LeMans Hall  
I 236-2656  284-5606  

are pending in more than 30 states, and most were filed without con­sideration of increased costs that may occur in 1984 when American Telephone & Telegraph Co. will spin offits 22 operating companies. 
Many experts expect a new spurt of rate increases then, but con· sumers will not have to wait that long before paying higher bills. Con­sider: 
•The Bell System companies now owned by AT&T have requested or announced their intention to re­quest a total of 54.82 billion in addi· tiona! annual revenue. 
According to AT&T spokesman Pic Wagner, the Bell companies could have rate requests pending at any one time in 48 states plus the District ofColumbia As ofthe end of August, Wagner says rate cases were 
pending in 31 states. 
•Two local companies in which AT&T is a minority owner -the Southern New England Telephone 
·Co. and Cincinnati Bell -have rate requests that total S164 million. 
•The Gneral Telephone & Electronics Corp. (GTE), the na­tion's second largest telephone company, says its subsidiaries have requested or announced their inten­
tion to request $759.7 million in ad­ditional annual revenue from consumers in 1 0 states. 
•Reports from state utility com­missions and from the U.S. Inde­pendent Telephone Association indicate roughly $412 million worth 
· of rate hikes filed by other non-Bell 
phone companies are still pending. 
That is despite the approval of an 
estimated $312 million worth of 
rate hikes for _independent 
telephone companies during the 
first six months of 1982, according 
to Henry Wieland, a spokesman for 
the independent telephone associa­
tion. 

"While I can't speakfrom personal 
knowledge, I think it's a supportable 
conclusion that the rate requests 
now pending across the country 
represent a record," said Eric 
Schneidewind, the chairman of the 
public service commission in Michi­
gan. 

"We have been saying for some time that the decisions being reachect in Washington would result in very, very sharp increases in basic local rates," added John Bryson, the chairman of the public service com­mission in California "And that's what is happening." 

RIVER CITY RECORDS PROUOL Y PRESENTS THE CHARTER BUS TOUR TO: 
P•t• Townoh•nd Rog•r Dnltt•ll 
Farewell Tour! 
October 5 & 6, 1982 The Rosemont Horizon Rosemont, Illinois 
Limited supply ol charier bus trip packages lor The Who Concerts are now on sale at River City Records, 50970 
U.S. 3t North, South Bend, Indiana. Call 277·4242 for further information. 
Package includes round trip transportation by deluxe lnd1ana Motor Bus Coach, good reserved seat to concert and refreshments on bus. 

Film Club presen1is Henry fonda in 
''Mr. Roberts'' 
Directed by John Ford Henry Fonda. Jack Lemmon, James Cagney. William Powell 
(Technicolor I Th1• lon<J rurmill<.J Bro,tdWiiiJ pliiV b11 .)oshuil Lr~illl is il howl in<.J succ"'" on tlw ~nl'en. Mbtl'r Hobl!rh is Hemy Fondil. thl' nilval officer who itCh '" buffer on the ll.S.S. Reluctant bl'tween Cilgney as the eccen tric <111d iril~cibll' c,lplilin and the re-;t of the crew. In his fir<;t scrPen role. ,Jack Lemmon '" Erhign Pulwr k.-<'ps Fonda reillly hoppin!,j to keep the Ctptain from di~cowring whilt b; <.JOiny on with the fiw luscious nurws. billowing soi1p ,ud,, and thl' ploh to n1<1ke off with the Ci1pti1in's prize brass palm tree' "Strikill<JIV superior enterloinmPnt . f.pmmon exhibits the ebul lienee of a kid 11•ith a liPe frog in his britches... A /I. Weiler. The Ne11• '\-brk TinrPs. 12:{ min. A W<trner Brothers Pictuw 
Awards: 'fpn Rest of the YPar: Top Grossing Picture. Academv /\wards 
Jack l.eniii!Oil Best Supporting Actor: Nominated for Rest Sow;d and for Best · . I<J!5!5. ..­
~_ri~~y-~nd ~~t~rday Eng. Aud 7:00, 9:15, 11;00 AJmissionsf:Cf 
-~ -~---~~--~ 
The Observer Friday, September 3, 1982-page 4 


Flowers are laid around the coffin ofIngrid Bergman, in the hearse, before it left the private funeral service at the Swedish Church, London, bound for a private cremation ceremony at the W:.:?st London Crematorium.(AP) 
I~ 
I 
~ 
~ 
' ~ 
"' 
~ 







II SKYSTREAM 
I STUDENT FIRST JUMP INSTRUCTION 
~ TUINIIG FEU: $90 per student training includes ~ ground school, first static line jump, equipment rental, ~ parachute packing, iump master, airlift. 
~ STAnC LIIE .IUIIPS: $18.00/ jump ~ need a minimum ~ of 5 static line jumps. ~ STUDOit FlEE FALL: $15.00/ jump -up to 5,500 ft. 01111 Includes jump master, equipment rental & parachute ~ packing. 
~ Group rates are available 
~ STUDENT TRAINING CLASSES: ~ Start 9:00 A.M. Sat• .& Sun. ~ Come down and watch; our staff will answer any 
~ questions you m;;tF;~iTIONS: 

........................_,~............................ 
~  STine UIIE .IUIP ­ Student is connected to airplane by the static  
~  line which oufomaticolly deploY' the chute. A minimum of 5 ore  
01111  required.  
~  CUAI Alii PULL: Student jumps and deploys chute immediately by  
'-!  pulli"9 his ripcord.  
~~  FlEE FW: Delaying the pull until 2,500 ft., thus foiling for o time  
mointaining stable Right.  
HUnYE WOII (IW): A number of jumpers together using freefoll  ~~  
~  iime Ia complete formotions at altitude.  
01111 '-!  Till FAA (RIIOAL AYIAT101 ASSOC.) requires every jumper to wear fwo chulet -Amoin and a ·-·Til. resetVe must be pocked by o  01111P!  
~ ~ I  f A.A. certified rigger. For further information call: Goshen Municipal Airport 533-8245  I ~ !  

~ 
Inadequate? 

Repairs nearly completed 
ByJOHN BRESLIN 
News Staff 
As Hunziker Landscaping Inc. prepares to complete work in front of Fitzpatrick Hall, opinions vary as to the quality of the work done beneath the dirt. Leaks which have plagued the engineering hall since its completion in 1979 appear thoroughly sealed and ready for the rain. 
The leaks have caused damage to ceiling tiles and equipment in Fitzpatrick's two underground levels. According to James Carberry, professor of chemical engineering, "We've had pots and pans all over the place" in an effort to soak up the leakage. 
A shelf of water lies beneath the building, and Carberry says Ellerbe Architects thought it unnecessary to place a seal between Fitzpatrick and -t-his water leveL During heavy rains, water creeps up along the building and seeps into cracks in the under­ground levels. Assistant Dean of Engineering W.B. Berry says that in­ternal downspouts spanning the walls of the building were designed to remove rain from the roofand in­to the drainage system. 
During wint~r months water would melt off the roof and into the downspouts. Here the water would again freeze, cracking the spouts. Debris from Fitzpatrick's roof also clogged these vital waterways. In heavy storms, rain would then pour off the roof onto the ground in front of the building. A lack of adequate:· drainage left only Fitzpatrick's un-­derground roofto absorb this water. "Laboratory work was very difficuh while water dripped down on preci­sion equipment," noted engineering professorJJ Marley. 
· This summer, workers insulated the underground roof with three inches of rubber and styrofoan1­sheets. New drains had to be placed in front of Fitzpatrick since "th•~ water was just sitting here,'' remarked Scott Stewart, landscaper for the project. Excess water will sity. Not only is my office one-third now enter · the building's main the size of my former office, but you drainage system. could run buffalo down this enor­

Landscapers feel the project is mous corridor." nearly completed, but after three years oftrouble, engineering fuculty Finishing touches on the 
will not be easily reconciled with Fitzpatrick lawn will include trees, Ellerbe Architects. Carberry is shrubs, flowers, and a long, slightly "astounded that Ellerbe is taken elevated mound to guide water into 
back again and again by this univer-the drai_ns, 

Financiers fear global lending crisis 
TORONTO (AP)-Fears ofan in­
ternational lending crisis haunt a 
week of talks by finance ministers 
and bankers gathered from across 
the globe in search of economic 
cures to the worldwide recession. 
The occasion is the 37th annual 
meeting ofthe two major world len­
ding organizations, the International 
Monetary Fund and the World Bank. 
Economic leaders from more than 
140 nations are expected to attend 
sessions which get underway this 
weekend. 
The mood is grim. Grim about a deteriorating economic outlook for rich and poor nations alike; about mounting financial strains on the world's most indebted countries; about a widening rift between the United States and its allies over 1 --A· economic policies and rela­
tions with the Soviet Union. 
The main dispute at the formal meetings involves money: how much in new loans other countries can extract from the United States and how little the United States can get away with contributing to the IMF and World Bank 
Informal discussions will focus on 
the threats the international banking 
system faces from a growmg list or 
troubled debtors unable to meet 
payments on their multi-billion­
dollar debts, such as Mexico, Argen­
tina, Poland and Cuba. 

"Obviously, there is danger in the banking system at this point until such time as these problems can be worked out," concedes U.S. Treasury Secretary Donald T. Regan, who is heading the American delega­tion along with Federal Reserve Chairman Paul A. Volcker. 
In regards to the emergency aid plans that private and government lenders ae negotiating witJ:l troubled countries to avert defaults that could trigger a crisis, Regan said, "We're hopeful they can be handled and they can be worked out." 
Regan also noted that inflation is easing in the industrial countries, prices for imported oil have sof­tened, interest rates in the United States have fallen sharply and prospects are brighter for much im­proved economic growth in the in­dustrial nations next year. 
The IMF and World Bank do not see as many silver linings on the economic horizon. In their latest an­nual reports, thev nnred that tiPltt­money policies adopted by tne industrial countries to combat infla­tion have produced the longest world economic slump since the 1930s, high unemployment and steep interest rates. 
Anxiety about the longer-term economic outlook has been heightened by recent short-term financial crises. 
CLUB AN[) ORGANIZATION 

PRESIDENTS Please stop in Student Activities Office 1st Floor LaFortune, by this Friday, 

September 3, 5:00PM. 



The Observer Friday, September 3, 1982 -page 5 







You Have a Choice to Ftiday's Picnic! 
Ftlday 4:00 pm to close. 

Fre~ Soft Drink with the purchase of any sandwich and fries at the Huddle. Open till1 :00 am Free slice of watermelon with the purchase of any Deli Sandwich. Open till11 :00 pm 
-~ 

Don't forget to stock up on ICE for this weekend's festivities. 10lb. and 20 lb. bags of ICE available at the Deli. 
LETTUCE SERVE YOU! 

------------------------------~---------------------------..--....--....--..---· 
f'CC begins debate on cable systetns 
wASHINGTON (Ap) _ Nobody 
, knows whether average Americans will ever prefer "reading" their TV sets instead of a newspaper, but the federal government may decide soon how such a system would work. 
With little public fanfare, a debate has begun at the Federal Com­munications Commission that could determine whether electronic in­formation services can be offered by broadcasters as well as cable TV operators and newspaper publis­hers. 
The issue is deceptively simple: can broadcasters demand that their electronic information services be carried by local cable systems? 
The answer may be crucial, however, because broadcasters maintain they can hardly be ex­pected to enter the electronic publishing business if the rapidly growing cable industry can deny them an audience. 
The broadcasters suggest a con­sumer who subscribes to ca'>le is not likely to go to the trouble oferecting or !llaintaining an antenna just to receive an electronic information service over the a1r. 
An electronic publishing service is one m which information -from news to airline sl·hedules to 
'Loc~lLegend' dies in lVIinnesota woods 
ELY. \finn. (AP) -The purr of 
outboard motors broke the stillness 
of Ottertrack Lake for the fir>St time 
in years yesterday as friends 
gathered for the funeral of Benny 
:\mbro:.e, a prospector and 
woodsman who died a local legend 
at age 82. 
The U.S. Forest Service bent its rules to allow motorboats into the Boundary Waters Canoe Area for memorial services for Ambrose, one 
of the last two people who lived on the 22 miles of wilderness water­ways in northeastern Minnesota. 
Ambrose's ashes were buried on the peninsula where he lived alone in a one-room cabin on Ottertrack Lake in sight of Canada, about 40 miles northeast ofEly. 
OAK BOOM OAFE 

South Dining Hall 
J)pen •ith~ly (except suiciaysj _llon·!hurs 9:00 pm • Miclnight rri..Sat 9:00_Jm ·2:00am 

---------FBBE -------­
12oz beverage withfood purchase 
Ambrose. a well-known ..trea guide. trapper and prospector. was found dead Friday by Forest Service rangers next to the burned-out remains ofa canvas shelter where he cooked in the summer. His body was taken to Ely, where it was cremated. 
The cause of death is unknown, but officials think Ambrose, a wiry, lean man with a stubble ofbeard, suf­fered a heart attack. 
"He was the kind ofguy who at 40 degrees below zero would come out of the woods with his wool shirt un­buttoned down to the waist," said Bruce Kerfoot, a local resident. "He was as rough and tough as they come." 
adverti~ing ~ is transmitted to t~e home m wntten text or graph1c for~ for recall by consumers on their TV sets or personal computers. 
There a~e tw~ different types. If 
the serv1ce IS one-way and 
transmitted by broadcasters on an 
unused portion ofthe normal TV sig­nal, it's known as teletext. If the service is transmitted via cable TV or telephone lines and is two-way ­meaning consumers can respond to the information they receive by answering questions or ordering merchandise, for example -the service is known as videotext. 
Videotext, with its two-way capability, is often viewed as an in­evitable winner over teletext. But a teletext system is normally cheaper to build and operate, and it might be years before consumers are com­fortable with the idea ofshopping or banking at home via videotext. 
The teletext-videotext battle can not get underway, however, until the FCC authorizes teletext service and answers a number of policy issues, including the cable question. Agency officials have begun review­ing written comments submitted earlier this year and a top staffer who asks not to be identified says a ruling should he made before the end of the year. 
* CIINEIHAI ¥ 



monday night film series I 
T~.neen •mportant t,Jms that span Amertcan ana world ltlm n•story Stlent comeay. German e>..presston•sm. Sovtet montage. tl'le class•c HOII)'Wood ctnema. the Frencn New Wave. the New Amencan cmema. ana the New German c•nema Hel1 m con,unct•on w1:h COTH 140 {Bas•cs of Fllm Stud•esl ana sponsored by the Department ol Commun•catcon and Theatre 
All shOwtngs at the Annenbera Auditorium, The Snlte Mu..um ol Art, Notre Dame campus at 1·00 p m. (unless ctherw•se noted) 
1ndtv•dual Admess•ons $2 00 Ser•es Ttcket Any 25 lttms !rom Three Ser•es $30.00 Any 15 hlms lrom Three Ser~&s $22 00 
September 6 
The Oenttrelt1926i 
Buster Keaton. USA. B & w. S1lent w/mus1Cal score 84 mn1 Keaton s character and ongma111y shme m thiS comeoy claSSIC basec on an ac1ual even1 of the C1v11 War F11meo on the narrow gauge ra11roaos or Oregon al"ld us1ng only 50 t1tle caros. the p1cture has the look of Mal· thew Brady \lntypes brought to life 
September 1 3 
Metropolis f1926i 
FritZ Lang Germany. B & W S1len! w/mustcal score. 93 mm An elaborate. futunst1c fantasy ol a sublerranean tactmy. ruLed by T1tans. Cletrayeo by robots. and saverJ by love combrnes vrs10ns ol the 1920$ New York C1ty skyline wtlh premonr110ns or totahtarran force ana 
• rnot:l v101ence 
SeplemtJer 20 
Touch of Evil , , 9581 
Orson Welles USA 8 & W. 108 mrn Set on the Me,(1cantAmencan border roucn 1nvest1gates the crossmg ol ooundanes between countnes. race~ se~ees-and lmally oetween 'aw ana IUS\Ice Welles casts htmse!l as an overwe1ght chocolatto·addJcted OOitce OP.Iect1ve who clashes wtth a Me~eJc.::~n pQi1ce otflc1a1 IC '1aruon rlestcn) :..lVer an •nvest1gatJOn that diSrupts h1S 'loneymoon w1lh tne sultrv Janel Letgh 
Seotemoer 2 7 
M11..:ullnelfemlnlne t1965J 
.:ean-Luc Godard France. B & W l 03 m.n In t=rench won· Enohsh subtitles LOOsetv lJasea on-two stlaf! stortes by Guy de Maupassant Le S1gne ana ""La. Femme de Paul.'" Mil exammes lhEl IE>rmen! of the St'it1es ~);,· ptormg l'le reac:1ons of youth to ..,,olence POIIIIcal protest. surc1d& Otf!h ·.ontrol. dnd an the Other problems thai olagued the era l)f Vt<•tnam 
October 4 
His Qlrl Friday 119401 
Howarc HaW!I.s US.<\ 8 & w. !?4:! nun ScrewD.JH cornea-,. !akes on breakneck speeo whei' star !epo·ter RosahflO nusseu Tr•e!" to lam 11 our of town ro_ marry super-duu ~~~'P'' Bellamv. butner ed1tor-boss ana ex·hu:ibana Cary Grant Knows sne can I •eS11SI a QC'OO iead ana hooks ner on a oeath-house story tnat Turns ·r<to page-one mater1ar 
Ocrooer '1 
October t~928r 6 00 p m Serge1 Etsenstem USSR, B & W Silent 161 mm Commemora11nQ the 1Oth ann1v~ary of the 1917 Revolu!IOr Octooer IS thP f1lrn 11"1 wn1c~"~ f.1senstetn most rrgorously !allowed hiS own tneorre~ of Jntellt.>~I:.JBI montage Tne film rs JUStrlrab!y tamous for sequen~es wnrch not ..r<v •ncorporate 1mages or ObJects as metapnorrcal elements but also .ntegrate the trlles 1nto a tOTal dynarn1c ana plast1c un1ty 
Octobet 18 
Stagecoach (19391 
John Ford USA. 8 & W. 96 m1n Probaoty tne most celebrated Western ol an ttme Ford·s Stagecoacn 1S oath an actton movre w1th a spectacular lndtan anack ana guntrgnt ana a subtly underptayed e)(ammahon of soc1ety ana CJVtltzatlon Fora gave John Wayne hiS hrst 1mportant role as the !1Im s outlaw-hero. the Rmgo K•d 
November 1 
The Big Sl..p 119461 
Howard Hawks. USA, B & W, 114 mrn Th1s Ray, nona Chandler mystery lmks Humphre't Bogan and Lauren Bacall 1n me moEt electric ol their screen couplings Bogan tS pnvate eye Phtlrp Marlowe. Bacall .sa lady w1\h secrets 
November 8 
The Long Goodbye 119731 
Robert Altman. USA color crnemascope. 112 mm Raymond C~ancller"s P'lrlro Marlowe a slummmg angel v.ho mvests the sun-blinded s!reets ot Los Angeles wt!h a romanhc oresence becomes less romantiC ana rrote cynrca• when ne runs smack rnto me psychedPlrc 60s m Altman·s sopnrs!rcaiea upaa11ng of thts nard·botled saga ot tnenoshtp. love and betrayal 
November 15 
El Dorado 11 96?) Ho•• aro Hawks. USA. color 126 mm John Wayne proves that ··ta1th can rnove mountarns. but 1t can 1 beat a laster t1raw when h~ ana Robert MrtchUm (two "!1as-beens ., fOtn up w1th a vouthh.~. amateur (James Caan) to oefeal lhe outlaws. rnake the .... arlo safe tor democracy and e~eemoh 1 y t:miess,onalrsm and male comracesn1p 
Tuesday Novemoar 23 
a...thleu !1959) 
.. ean-Luc. Gooara france 8 & W 89 'Tlln In Frencro w1th E'lgltsn subtrtres . One at the most tmportant ol lhe tutr.~ Of thP F•ench New .,AJave Bteatnfess rewrote the grammar ol t'1-e cmema ana estabttsneo lhat the I'Tlannet tn wh1Ch a story IS 1010 car. be more tmoortant th~ the story 
•tst.ll At tne same t+me. :he ftlm IS a 110mage to the A!Th-3n gangster !rim. leatur1ng Jean-Paul Bermonao m Mi hrst ma·'Jr role. , *larooy of 11umpMre~ Bogart s anarchtC gano;s~er 
Ncwemblfr ?9 
The AmeriCan Soldier 1' 9701 
Rame1 .'Ver,..er Fa~somoer Ger~anv B 6 W 80 mrn In Ge•rna,... WIIO Engftsf.l subl<ffes ~="assb1noe: s allempt 10 recreate the ~orlywood C1r>ema 1n tne Germany at the 70s 1S 1ron1ca11y reoresentec: try the aoomea pflorts at cneao Ger­mar• punks to "lOOet themselves after Amencan !urn 9angst~s Soft l"la\s. whole So.uts. and bulgmg shouloer ~o!sl~ itbouno •n thos rnooo­lhiCK Mmage to the Amencan cnme 111m 
Decemoer 6 An Autumn Afternoon ,19621 
YBSUJIIO Ozu Japan, color 112 n'IIM In Japanese wrtM English subt1tles Ozu·s lavonte plot....:..an old man who must grve up his dauQhter-otca· SIOns a meOJtat1on on change ana tradtlton 1n postwar Japan ellecureo 10 me Olstrlled s1mptrctty ol Ozu s late style 
l\l()fl(E IYIItiE/\iUI\If ltWI('f"\ 

C()IWHIJNIICAifii{)N
0flrlfclilf~fc 



, .. With sal..\0 BaR -1 


···The Best in 
• 699 


Aged Steaks
'.-lnCluOEs:$ 

saveo~€R $4:1nksnOtlnclu0€0~ I 
mro•um O€€p01sh SICilian, 12.. hano rnsi0€01mnqonly_ I 
120 N. Main Street 
toss€b Rouno or:~ 10.. monst€<1 P•zza On€coupon P€<1 customEr:~ 
Downtown, Mishawaka 
. (yOUQChOIC€0~WPPIO<:iS) P€<1VISoC CannOt8€US€0 I .. Wlthanyoth€<1couponor:~ I
• 2 Cll€at€ your:~ own S.l~Ml Balls o1scount oH€<1­
255-7737 
<;ooO At CI€V€1anl' Ro~!l sr~or:~€ acr:~oss ~<1om Umv€<1Sity PaRk m~ I 
for reservations 
277-5300 OH€<1 (jOOO thllOU(ih 5€1)t. 12. 1982 
lunch 11:00 A.M. to 2:00P.M. Dinner 5:00P.M.

~ble~IWU\.'S-.-.­
Closed Sundays & Holidays 

------------------------------------------~~ 


continuedfrom page 1 
Reagan proposals were drawn up
8·5 Mon.·Sat. 
219-239-S144
Badin Hall 

and announced without prior con­University of Notre Ddme 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 sultations with Israel, contradicting
(Evenings by Appointment) 
a 9-year-old U.S. commitment to coordinate Mideast policy with Is­rael. 
A cabinet official, in a briefing to reporters, said the proposals were 
accompanied by unpublished com­mitments to Israel, but he said the 

UNIVERSITY HAIR STYLISTS 
FULL SERVICE UNISEX CENTER 
government had lost confidence in 

,---------HAIR CUTTING SPECIALISTS-------­
American promises. The official quoted Begin as tel­

Our master st!'lists h .. ve the up·to·ddt~ and 
ling U.S. Ambassador Samuel Lewis

conventional styles icr the men and women oi the 
when he delivered the proposals

Notre Dame ar.:d Saint Mary's campuses. 
Tuesday night that "any government 
that would accept this plan would

let us take C4P(' oi all your hair care needs. 
betray its own people. We will not We olsc have u iull h,, oi c .. t.lil h;,;it pruducts and are located on 
betray our people.".::am,Ju ~ ior your convt'<~-ienct>. 
The Cabinet's deliberations were based on the Reagan letter which _the Israeli official said covered 16 general topics. The communique _me_ntioned only a few, and he ad­





---------~--------------------------------------------------------· 
mitted-thatMtallthe other points were detrimental to Israel. He refused to disclose them. 
The Cabinet statement: 
•rejected Reagan's call for Jerusalem's I 00,000 Arabs to vote for a Palestinian autonomy council to run the occupied West Bank and






WELCOME! 
Gaza for five years. It said Jerusalem was deliberately left out ofthe Camp David accords, but the proposal
I

·_:------------..,.-~,-$200 orr .· '1 
would effectively redivide-the city
--I. 
that was united by Israel's 1967 con-
any laRG€ Oeep Ol~h SICILian OR I 
quests. 
l.aRG€ monsteR Pizza I . 

•Dismissed the proposal that (joob at Cl€V€Lanb Roab stOR€ 
security gradually return to Pales­acROss ~Rom umv€RSrty PaRk matt , 
tinian hands, arguing that Camp·
1 
1
. 277-5300 . 
David allowed a permanent Israeli 
, on€coupon P€R przza. €XPIR€S S€pt. 12, 1982 I 
•--~ -~ble~IWill'S•*==.J --r-:·-'p.IZL\Oinn€R~ORtwo••-apq
. 
. ~ ll 


army presence, without which Israel would continue to be a terrorist tar­get. For Israel "this is a question of life and death," it said. 
•Refused 
Reagan's demand to freeze settlement activity and said "settlement is a Jewish inalienable right." There are about 25,000 Jewish civilians living on ap­proximately 90 settlements in the West Bank and 1 0 in the Gaza Strip. 

•Rejected 
the U.S. definition of "full autonomy" as including author­ity over land and resources, al­though with safeguards for Israeli water supplies. Camp David refers to autonomy only for "inhabitants," not territory, it said. 


•Claimed that Reagan's proposal 
. for strong links between the Pales­tinians and Jordan were not in­cluded in the accords. Officials said this demand was prejudging the West Bank's final status, which should be negotiated. 
... Hasli 
continuedfrom page 1 

dents abroad admitting to drug usage, we have to ask the question, 'What is going on?' There also is a problem at home," Roemer said. 
Roemer complimented the stu­dents for coming forward with the information. 
"These were fine young people who were extermely honest and 
. deserving of respect from the Notre Dame community. As far as I'm con­cerned, it's all over," he said. 
WELCOME BACK TO BRIDGET'S 


·------------------------------------------------------~ 
Friday, September 3, 1982-page 7 



Q.) 
. c, :1 



~\.~,~ 

A Full Une Of Ouahtyh.·;~'Goods
HOURS Mon.-Sat. 10 AM to 9 PM Sun 12 Nwm To 5 PM 
6305 University Commons 
1Across from UrlJvers1ty Pari'. Mall i 
272-7565 
1250 Scottsdale Mall 

!A~~f«lff 
Athletic Shoes 
OR 




Dorothy Bush, daughter ofVice President George Bush, and her new husband, William LeBlond, emerge in the rain from St. Ann's Episcopal Church in Kennebunkport, Maine following their Wed­
nesday marraige. (AP) 
continuedfrom page I 
can say." 
On Tuesday, PAP said, police had fired on the pt:otesters, killing two and injuring 12 others, three ofthem seriously. Twelve police officers also were hurt, according to official reports. 
PAP said the rioting in Czestoc­
howa lasted until Wednesday morn­
ing and 251 people were arrested. 
There were no reports ofinjuries in 
the southern city, site of a massive 
religious pilgrimage in August 
honoring the Black Madonna, 
Poland's holiest icon. 
... Poland 
Other reports said 24 civilians and 12 police officers were injured in Krakow, 29 civilians and 42 police officers were hurt in Gdansk, and 24 streetcars were "immobilized" in Wroclaw. 
PAP said Piotr Sadowski, 22, of Gdansk, died after he "fell in the street" during Tuesday's riots. It said an autopsy "sh9wed features ofsud­den death, but no bodily injuries which could have caused death." 
It said rioters were being fined from the equivalent of S62 to H80, or sentenced to up to 90 day~ in jail. The average worker receives the equivalent ofabout S90 a. month. 
*********'***************** 
• CIINEIHAI * 


monday night film series II 
Allrea Hitchcock ··the master.-;' terrm IS perhaps the Slngte greatest 01rector ot tne 8nt1sh and Amer.can cmema These tl'llrteen htms e11plore the range 
at HI!ChC()Cic s worK ;,:10 rus 1n11uence on young European and Amer1c:an <:ltrectors Held tn contunC!IOn Wllh COTH 320 (Aspects ol F1lm H1tchcock and 
HtS lml/alors, and ~ponsorea by me Depaamem ol CommtJmca/lon & Theatre 
All show•.,gs at Annenberg Auditorium, The Snite Munum ol Art, Notre Dame Camous .Jl 9 00 p m (unless otherwtse noted! 
l~··~~dua' Admtsstons $2 00 Sertt>S T1cket Any 25 htms !rom Three !"'?t1es $30 00 Any 1~ hlms tram Three settes S22 00 
September 6 
ShlldOW of. Doubt (1943) Allred HitChcock. USA. B & W. 108 m'n 
Doubles become enem1es when a young gul reatrzes that her lavo11te uncle (bOth are named Charhe) makes a hvrng by prey1ng on elderly wtdows HitChCOCk demonslrales that abnorrnahly IS 10 be found JUSI beneath the surface even 10 small-town A ner•r.an lam1ly hie 
September 13 
Spellb9und 11945) Anred Hitchcock, USA. B & w. t\5 m1n Pop psychOanalys•s meels romant1c love when lngr10 Bergman. a psyctua!TISI. lal!s miOve Wllh Grego.ry Peek. an amnes1a VtC!Jm who believes he IS Dr Edwardes. the new d11ector ol lhe Psych1atnc lnst•lute PsychoanalySIS ol dream sequences by Salvadm Oah leaos to lhe relurn ol !he repressed m the chmaCIIC sk1 chase down a Sw1ss mountam 
September 20 
S~nprs on • T,.fn (1950) Allred H1\chcoc.k USA. B & W 
101 mm An acctdental encounler on a tram suggests an exchange ol murders '" th1s class•c thnller Raymond Chandler wrole the d1alogue lor the adapta­lcon of !he Patnc1a H1ghSm1th novel 
September 2 7 North by NorUiw•t (1959) Allred Hrtchcock. USA. color. 136 m•n 
November 1 Le lloucher !1972) Claude Chab10l. France. color. 93 m1n In French w1th Enghsh sub1111es A psychOiog,cal suspense thnller concern1ng a senes ol b•zarre murders 
m a small French town mtersect!> w1th a romance between the schoolleacher and the butcher. who has recently relurned hOme alter a d~cade '" the Army 
November 8 
The Blrda (1963) Allred Hrtchcock. USA color. 119 mm Daphne du Mauner's terrrlymg novel becomes a kmd of mOdern morahty play when lht:! res1den!s ol a resorl town become vrc!Jms of mystenous mass attacks by fierce b11ds 
November 15 
-.mle (19641 Allred H•h.:hcock. USA. color. 130 mm Sean Connery falls 1n love wt!h l1pp1 Hedren because she IS a !h1e!-not '" sp11e of 11-m thrs romance turned fam1ly melodrama rn wh1ch the most susprc1ous evenls are psych1c drsturbances-phobla. repress•on. !et1'ih1sm. and ch1ldh0od trauma 
Tuesday, November 23 Dreaaecl to Kill (1980) Bnan DePalma. USA. color. crnemascope. 105 m1n ­Ang1e D1ckrn~n plays a frustrated and restless hOusewlle and Mtchael Carne plays her repressed psycruatrrsl m a compelling psychodrama that 
Hrtchcock terronzes Cary Grant. a suave bus1nessman m1s.taken1y lden­trhed as a CIA agenl. w1th a crop-dustmg plane and wtlh a chmacl•c chmb across the prestdeO\Iallaces on Ml Rushmore 
October 4 
Psycho (1960) Alfred Hitchcock. USA, B & W. 109 m•n Hrtchcock"s most unrelenbng '.!xerctse 10 terror There"s no need 10 re­count the now-classrc hOrror set-pteces. Psycho"s tWISted p~ychOiogy and 1mages at vrolence lmger long alter file /lim has endea W1th Janel Le1gh and Anthony Perkrns 
October J 1 
The Bride Wore a&.ck (1968) Francors Trullaul France. 
cotor, tOT mm In French w1th English hiles Oedrcated to Allred Hrtchcock and scored by Bernard Herrmann. Brtde opens w1lh a scene lrom Samuel Fuller's 40 Guns. A man IS shot leav­Ing church on hrs weddmg day Alterwards. Jeanne Moreau. !he be­reaved bnde. devotes her hie 10 murderrng those responsrbte rn a senes of c. rmes that are paradox1cally expressrons of love 
October 18 
Juat Before Nlghtt.ll {1971) Claude Chabrat. France. color. 
1 00 mtn In French w11h Enghsh subhlles Chabrol pushes H11Cilcock1an rdentrfrcat1on wrth the crrmrnalto an lfOiliC extreme '" !hiS him about a man who has an allarr wrth hiS best fnend's wrfe ana accldenlally lulls /let Everyone exonerales rom. bul he wams to be IOUI"'d gurlly draws many cmematrc remrms(:enses from Hrtcheock and Psycho 
Novsmbe1 29 
High Anxletv (1978) Mel Brooks. USA. color. 94 mm Brooks. the dlfector olthe InStitute for the Very. Very Nervous (a reference to Spellbouncf). tnes 10 solve a murder and cure hrs lear ol he1ghts (Vertigo) m thiS hllanous homage to Allred HitChCOCk 
December 6 
Frenzy (1972) Allred Hrtchcock, Great ~•am. colOr. 116 men What was an exchange ol gwllm Strangers on a Ttam becomes a trap of rmplrcatron lor an old lnend m Frenzy All the Hrlchcock trademarks a;e presen110 abundance rn ltlrs story of a suave london strangler black humor. great camera work. unyreldmg suspense 
1\i()Jiil.E lYJ11EI\IUI\il iMRf'S 

C()IWHIJNIICAilii()N(Jllr11dlll~E 





CLIP !HISII COUPOXS···· 
•••••...............•.........,...........•,,,...,•••...••.... 
------~----­
7 GAMIBOOM


I!WtfJ£!~1 
tokens for $1.00 with coupon B o limit on purchue. Gameroom openyeu·round expires Sept 80
....................•.........................................•
. ______._ _____ 
••·••···••••••···········••···································•• 



lMMif,!l 
IWU.IuiiGiit! 
and play AU Three courses (games good any time) for only $2.00 (halfprice) Bring your friends along. We'll let them ill on the de&! toOl 

lxplres Sept 80 ····················•·············•···························• OPBB YBAB BOUBD! 861J B. Main., Mishawaka (one block south of lcliJon Bd.)Open till midnight 289-4171 
***'***'*'****'*************** 


The Observer Friday, September _3, 1982-page 8 




Editorials 
Friday, September 3, 1982 -page 9 

The Semantics of Proliferation 
"Tis the time's plague when madmen lead the blind." Shakespeare, King Lear 
The military-industrial complex of this country has always relied on its own brand of newspeak in propagandizing the benefits of nuclear proliferation. In recent years, 
Patrick Mulligan 
Divided Line 

however, the bombastic jargon has assumed a more disturbing dimension. The manifesta­tions ofthis rhetorical campaign abound in all communicative modes. Essentially it is an at­tempt to conceal the horrific consequences of nuclear conflagration behind a facade of semantics. In the nuclear arms vocabulary, phrases such as 'dense pack,' 'first strike capability,' and 'limited nuclear war' have become popular designations for the un­
thinkable. 
In a subtle way, the average American is being inculcated with a nominal logic assert­ing the possibility -even desirability -of there being a 'winnable' nuclear war. By cloaking their scenarios in euphemisms, the denizens of the Pentagon hope to make the unimaginable recognizable. Perhaps the first step towards thwarting these schemes in­volves making ourselves aware of the sig· nificance ofmilitary word games. 
It must be remembered that we are not 
dealing with those who comprehend the ian· 
guage of shared humaniry. The military­
industrial complex has created its own 
linguistic constructs which exist outside the 
realm of human reason. The situation may be 
best described as an ossification of the im­
agination. In Pentagon-esc, statistics replace 
individuals on all levels. Twenry million 
casualties becomes 'an acceptable figure' ifwe 
can annihilate one hundred million commies. 
For the Pentagon tacticians, sheer numbers shield them from images of sizzling flesh and melting eyeballs. The notion that all moral anchors would be swept away in the after· math of_a nuclear exchange does not compute in Pentagon attack formulas. The numerical mentality absorbs all human sensibiliry; it is like a black hole which renders all humanistic considerations meaningless. 
Above all, the semantics of proliferation proclaim the gospel of quantiry. Already we have stockpiled enough nuclear weapons to destroy the world several times over. As the hundreds of megatons and millions of dead become more incomprehensible, the strategies of nuclear war become logistically plausible. Indeed, the reification of whole populaces lends credibiliry to the Pentagon's cavalier approach to nuclear holocaust. 
Should anyone doubt the validiry of these assumptions, let him consider the incon· grouos events ofthe past year alone. The Navy christened a nuclear weapon-laden sub· marine 'Corpus Christi.' The Army com­memorated the thirty-seventh anniversary of Hiroshima by detonating hydrogen bombs in the New Mexican desert. And Edwin Meese revealed his longrunning joke with Caspar Weinberger: they call the MX missile 'the Hal­lmark,' because they 'care enough to send the best.' Upon hearing such inanities one can only be filled with rage and despair and numb­ness. The arrogance implicit in their insen· 
sitiviry derides the aspirations of all mankind. This gung-ho militarism rejects all notons of social amelioration at the behest of nuclear hegemony. 
Perhaps what is most vile about this phenomenom is the alienation of human con­cerns, of human involvement, of human pos­sibilities. The military's utilitarian assessment of nuclear war represents a ilib dismissal of the sacredness oflife. Rather than acknowl­edge the responsibilities of being human, the propagators of nuclear semantics· use Jan-· guage as a means ofobscuring their apocalyp­tic designs. 
We must raze the verbal edifices of the military-industrial complex. If we become immured with the linguistic banalities of nuclear militarism we are lost. You see, the frightening thing about the Pentagon lunatics is that they are lucid in their self-contained logic. Lucid lunatics -even they might ap­preciate that term. 
I 
Patrick Mulligan is an English majorfrom Chicago, Illinois. 

Notre Dame: the best and the worst 
It seems that most of the issues at Notre Dame that have attracted a great deal of con­troversy among both the students and the faculry -such as parietals, the "keg rule", tenure proceedures, etc. -have all been thoroughly covered by now. It is redundant to cover these same issues over and over again, and I really believe that after a certain point, editorials in the newspaper that rail against issues which the administration refuses to face only beats a dead hoi~e, so to speak. Yet, editorials, by their very nature are "political statements," and an editorialist should address issues that are "politically relevant" to those who read them. 
Robert lloyd Snyder 

Friday 

I do not truly consider myself a "political person," nor do I have much interest in "saving the world." My intent in writing this column is to ask those questions which many of us have asked ourselves, but have failed to see in print. Hopefully, I can speak to those at Notre Dame who deeply appreciate the op· portunities that this institution has to offer, but who are also concerned enough about what Notre Dame, as a Catholic establishment of"higher education," should and can be. 
Bear with me. I'm new at this. 
As with most upper~lassmen, lthlnk,-the realization that I had actually returned to this campus did not hit me at first, even though I ·had already moved into my room and was well about my rounds of seeing old friends. Every year, Notre Dame seems brand new; I can still remember the first time I visited this campus as an 8-year-old with my parents. To them, 
Notre Dame stood as an ultimate Catholic 
goal, a place that I would eventually graduate 
to after years ofmaturation, studious prepara­
tion, and hope. _ 
-Each autumn,_ ind(!ed,J also find the exodus from my home in Dallas to South Bend to be a Somewhat mind-boggling experience. I am al­ways anxious to confront the challanges that lie ahead, and to meet new people that I would not otherwise encounter. I met thefirst person I ever knew from Montana at Notre Dame. My first roommate was from Arizona. My girlfriend is from Canada. Back in Dallas, I was unsure that these places existed other than on maps. 
I feel that Notre Dame has allowed me to do 
things that J believe to be impossible anywhere else. Notre Dame, I feel, is a place where the best of all worlds co-exists side by side with many of the more unpleasant facets of life. It is a unique place, with the cor­responding unique problems that arise from having a student body that is 90 percent white Catholics and an incredibly ambitious athletic program. I am extremely proud ofthe fact that I am a member ofits student body. 
Yet there is a dark side to th~ nature of Notre Dame and her student body, a side that I feel is undeserving of the ideals which Notre Dame is supposedly established upon. 
Notre Dame is located in South Bend. This is an unalterable fact, and I have long chosen to stop decrying this town; however, there is a problem that arises from the vacuum of off· campus social activities, the age liq~itations in· herent to social activity at Notre Dame, and the seeming indifference of the universiry's administration to the problems ofsocial life at Notre Dame. This problem is the ease with which a good deal of students fall into al­coholism and alcohol abuse. I realize that this problem exists almost anywhere that one may travel in this country, but I feel that I have never witnessed alcoholism to such an extent as I have seen at Notre Dame. It is especially painful to see wholescale personaliry changes in one's friends and schoolmates due to al· coholism. Again, not a problem unique to Notre Dame, but a problem seemingly mag­nified on this campus. 
Notre Dame is, by the nature ofits small stu­dent body, a semi-closed sociery. By the third month of evey semester, all the faces in the dining halls, Corby's, and the A.C.C. are familiar and recognizable to everyone. 
There are also problems that arise out ofthe campus environment that are unbecoming to the ideals of Notre Dame which are con· tinuously pumped into our heads. I have found it hilfd to reconcile Catholicism with the slander of individuals that I have heard in the dormitories and classrooms of Notre Dame. I find it hard to attend chapel with a clear conscience knowing that I have engaged in idle "locker-room gossip" with my friends about women who are in attendance in the very same services. It becomes difficult to keep an objective position concerning people I barely know personally when one observes the jealousy and back-biting that goes on among men and women at Notre Dame. 
At Notre Dame, fashion and individual sryle is not invented; it is duplicated. Everyone well realizes who comprises the prominent faddist community ofNotre Dame. 
I am a white Catholic-raised male. A 
majority of the Notre Dame student body is 
the same. Yet, in probably 50 percent of all 
gatherings of 3 or more males at Notre Dame, 
the term "nigger" is used for blacks, especially 
the black athletes. I believe that this is a main 
cause of the semi-segregated nature of race 
relations at Notre Dame; it is well-known that 
in the dining hall where I eat, there has tradi· 
tionally been tables for the blacks, and then ·tables for "the rest ofus." 
Moreover, there is a fairly identifiable split between most of the athletes and the non­varsity segment of the student body. Football players hang out with football players, basket· ball players with fellow basketball players, soccer players with soccer players, etc. Indeed, while it is only natural that cliques develop among people who spend a great deal of time with each other, the separation be­tween Notre Dame's scholars and scholar­athletes often ranges on the abnormal. I have seen this br-;:ed jealously within those who have dreamt of being athletes at Notre Dame, and a fearful insecuriry among the athletes who are derided as "dumb jocks." 
There are many other irritating items which are worth mention; the continuous friction between the women of Notre Dame (supposedly the "smarter women"), and the women of Saint Mary's (supposedly the "prettier" portion of this community's women); the irrational strive for the "perfect preppiness" that afflicts so much of the stu· dent body, where social status can be ac· hieved through "looking right"; or even the seemingly anti-educational attitudes that most Notre Dame students pursue a degree with, hoping to use a diploma as a golden meal ticket to an Sl8,500-a-year job and happiness in Corporateland. 
But Notre Dame has its silver lining as well. 
There are hundreds ofworthwhile people on 
this campus who are well worth knowing, 
who are individuals instead of followers, and 
who can discuss something more relevant 
than Blair Kiel's competence as the Notte 
Dame quarterback. There are numerous ac­
tivities on and off-campus that are interesting 
and worthwhile that few of us even consider, 
such as community service, or any of the 
many campus clubs. 
Chicagd is only a train ride away. There are 
hundreds of men and women between Saint 
Mary's and Notre Dame who have given up on 
the "social scene" who would thoroughly en· 
joy some.company. There are young boys and 
girls in the South Bend area who would love 
t. 
the company of a "Big Sister" or a "Big Brother." Logan Center is just 'around the cor­ner from the Football Stadium. 
What I am driving at is that there are oppor· tunities here to make Notre Dame well worthwhile. Notre Dame is a good place and a good place to be. Notre Dame also has problems that we, as individuals, can overcome if we pursue them. 
Maybe if we spent less time bitching about what Notre Dame limits us to, and spent more time realizing that the magic of Notre Dame does not have to end after a couple ofmonths ofthe school year, then we could all see Notre Dame truly become what it aspires to be. 
P.O. BoxQ  
New Senior Bar DearEditor, I was angry when I read the article en­titled "Another Exciting Year ... "written by Ryan Ver Berkmoes. In his article, Ver Berkmoes attacked the Universiry for tearing down the old Senior Bar and build­ing a new one. I think Mr. Ver Berkmoes should be aware of the facts before he writes an article. He was correct in stating that the old bar had character but failed to realize it was a fire hazard. He stated the · 'new bar possessed. the charm of a bank. . Obviously, he hasn't bothered to look inside. The new bar is the best thing that has ever happened to a senior class. It is over three times larger than the old bar which · will alleviate the crowding problem stu· dents face at other bars. People will be able .to sit in beautiful oak booths, dance on two, dance floors, and enjoy a fantastic new facility with a charm ofits own. I Granted, the old Senior Bar does have a ·lot of great memories, but instead of condemning the University for building the students an excellent new faciliry,let's !thank them. Sincerely, Kevin Woods General Manager Alumni-SeniorClub  




Editorial Board Department Managers 

T be Obrerver is an independent newspaper published by the students of the 
/:'dilor-in·Cbit•{................... ......... Mit:had Monk Husill('ss Manager ............. .............Tony Aiello

University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily 
.Utmaging l:'dilor.... ........ Ryan Vt·r Ikrkmot·s Contmller ............ ...............................f.rk· Schulz

refl(.'(t the policies of the administratior, of either institution. The news i~ report­
J:'xenttit•e .\'t•u•s l:'dilor........... .. ..... Kdli Flint Atlt•t•rtisin,r.: Managt•r........ ..............Chris Owen

ed as accurately anJ as obj(.'(tivcly as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of 
SMC Executive Editor ... ......Margaret l'osmoe Pmt/u('(ion Managt'l'............. .... M;mra Murphy 

a ma1ority of the Editorial Board. Co,nmentaries, opinions and letters are the views 
.\jmrts l:'ditor.. .. ..Chris Nt't'llles Circulation Manager.... .. ........ Ray lnglin

of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and 
/:'tlitorials J:'tlitor .. ....................,.Paul Mt:(;inn .\)•stems Managt•r.. .. .... Brun: Oakky

the frce expression of varying opintons on campus, through letters, iii encounged. 
Ft•atures l:'dilor ..:.......... .......Tari Brown l'boto /:'tlilor .... Rachd Blount 
Founded November ,i, 1966
P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 




-~S "-~ W C ~~iiiSiiiiiEiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiFriiiidaiiiy,Siiiepiiitemiiibeiir3ii,lii98ii2iipiiiageiiiiil~ 


John Higgins 

features 

C
ollege is excitingfor at least two Chautauqua These includeEast of price for margarita liters is just shy of concept. The Worst: The dearth of Frogs. Following last year's devastat­weeks. Freshmenand transfers Eden, Mr. Smith Goes to Washing­outrageous. (The same liter is $6.95 campus productions. ing fire and extensive renovations, may discover that the thrill ofNotre ton, and the only Marx Brothers at the Marriot.) Liters are reduced, the Box has oriented itselftoward 
movie on campus, Coconuts. You The Best:Tbe Taming ofthe Shrew 
Dame fades quickly in the shadow of however, to $7 from 3-6 p.m. assuming the role ofthe old for JulieJense_E_'s creative staging
a typically stale social atmosphere. can also spend four bucks at the Food is all a matter ofpersonal Vegetable Buddies as a blues For others, those weeks have long theatres in town ifyou really want. preference and finances. Barclay's New things and old things new: showcase instead ofa rock theatre. past. Restaurants & Bars -The North­on U.S. 31 and Tippecanoe will have Several new restaurants are open or The Duke and Corky Segal are both 
Notre Dame and South Bend do east Neighborhood is not known for new menus within the month. opening soon. Further, several night scheduled to appear within the next not, however, exist in a total ambience and atmosphere. Corby's Sweeney's has just introduced its spots which had closed have been month. Not totallyabandoningrock, vacuum. Here it goes: and Bridget's are still there plugging Mexican Revolution and is ex­renovated and reopened. the Box featured Steppenwolflast 
away with those happy hours and pected to have a new mt;nu soon Capitalizing on the newest con­month, with Elvin Bishop and Old things to do: cheap beer. Irish Country, unfor­( ???). It is told that they will have a cept in restaurants, Senor Kelly's, an Sleeperperforminglater this month. Movies -There are more movies tunately, is closed and will likely stay stir-fry dish which is unbeatable in Irish-Mexican cafe has opened in Anew snack menu and daily drink 
appearing on this campus than is that way. The best bar, however, quality and price. downtown South Bend. This con­specials are also offered. probably healthy. There is not a goes unnoticed by most students. The Best: Tippacanoe for atmos­cept has met a great deal ofsuccess Also reopened following a fire is single week in which a good film is Just across the street from Corby's, phere, Steak and Ale andJerimiah across the country, both in terms of Pardners indowntown South Bend a 
not scheduled to be shown some­The Commons draws a mixture of Sweeney's for the prices and the quality ofatmosphere and food and self-proclaimed "top 40 rock and where at Notre Dame or Saint South Bend residents and students crowd. The Worst: The Hacienda for finance. It appears that Senor Kelly's dancing" club. Rather than renovat­Mary's. in search ofrelieffrom its neighbors overcrowding and overpriced mar· will also enjoy that success. ing the old location, the owners Notre Dame Student Union has blaring stereoes. With owner garitas. The menu features wet burritos have moved into the old Indiana put together a fabulous film Pasquale often seen behind the bar, Concerts -The semester concert and chimichangas(the most popular Club, a private club with a huge ball­schedule including the best of 
The Commons is the friendliest bar schedule is the most miserable im­dishes in Mexican restaurants) as room, two bars and a private lounge relatively recent movies (Chariots in town. aginable. Teen idol Rick Springfield well as corned beef, Irish stew and tucked away from the music. ofFire, Missing, Ragtime, Absence The best deals, however, are will blast the ACC with his very own St. Louis Style ribs. Moderately Pardners offers sandwiches and piz­ofMalice and The French found far beyond the Notre Dame flavor ofDonny Osmond rock and priced, its onlydrawback is the same za and $1 pitchers from 8-9 p.m.
ghetto. Several restaurants run hap­
Lieutenant's Woman,) some less roll next week. To add insult to in­ridiculous S9 price for a liter ofmar­Wednesday and Thursday. 
py hours not only early in the eve-
recent ones {Jaws, Being There, The jury, Barbra Mandrell will perform garitas charged by the Hacienda. There is also an explosion ofnew 
' '~-"utalso late at night. Theselate
Graduate) and some classics the very best ofher insipid televi­They compensate by offering a 1 7 Italian restaurants and pizza placesnight happy hours are the best kept
(Sound ofMusic, Fiddler on the sion variety show sans the Mandrell ounce Double Margarita for just near campus. Puzzello's on Hill 
Roof and On the Waterfront.) Also, secretofthose trying to escapefrom Sisters later in the semester. No Street and South Bend Av. is an
52.95. (A little arithmetic revealsthe rancor oftraditional student

Saint Mary's Student Government is other ACC concerts have been an­how outrageous the liter price really Italian restaurant/market featuring
haunts. Steak and Ale on U.S. 31

showing a couple ofgood movies, nounced. is.) fine pizza and sandwiches. Nancy's 
Star Wars and Time Bandits. The features 2 for 1 bar drinks weekdays 
There is, however, at least one The owners ofSenor Kelly's and Aurelio's on S.R. 23 are popular Best:Mr. Roberts andStarWars. The until 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. -1 a.m. Friday bright spot. The Who will swing should be commended, however, Chicago operations which have 
Worst:Friday the 13th andNeigh­and Saturday nights. Jeremiah through the Rosemont Horizon in for bringing a quality restaurant into moved into South Bend. Both are ex­bors Sweeney's at University Park has a 
Chicago this October on the third the downtown area pected to open this month. Fran­The Communications and similar deal during the week but 
final tour oftheir career. This is one: The long-awaited reconstruction cesco's on Ironwood offers what is Afheatre Department is once again serves free hors d'oeuveres during concert worth the trip. Remember, ofSenior Bar was completed ahead probably the best pizza in town. 
sponsoring a Monday and Friday hours. ifyou tniss this one you will have to ofschedule and is expected to open Finally, Domino's, a take-out and Night Film Series in Annenberg Tippecanoe Place in downtown wait until the reunion tour in four delivery chain, is opening an outlet
next week. Despite its Saltine Auditorium at the Snite Museum South Bend runs more modest price years. Also coming to Chicago are cracker-box design, the new bar is on S.R. 23 next week. It's hard to including a stack ofHitchcock specials weekdays from 4-7 p.m., but the Go-Go's and Fleetwood Mac. spacious inside with a 12' by 14' know where to start eating. movies (North by Northwest, the setting in the Studebaker man­Theatre: For unknown reasons tbe dance floor, a DJ booth, two bars and Asad note: Rafferty's, a fine res­
Psycho, The Birds andFrenzy,) a Fd­sion makes it special. The Moon­once non-stop ND/SMC Theatre the popular outdoor garden. The taurant and home ofSouth Bend's lini film or two and some other raker is especially for those who schedule has been reduced to a best jazz entertainment, closed this
building is well-planned and com­a Iant-garde and terribly obscure want a quiet drink with a viewofthe trickle with only two Mainstage fortable without being garish. Food week. Rumors offinancial troubles films. The Best:Atlantic City, That St.Joseph River. Drinks are 2 for 1 productions (The Taming ofthe will also be served at the bar. have been circulatingfor a couple of Obscure Object ofDesire. The from 4:30-6:30 p.m. Monday Shrew andTheMaids byJean Genet) months. It is said that Rafferty's will 
The Music Box in Mishawaka 

Worst: The twp dollar admission through Friday with a free taco bar. plus the Dance Theatre and no an­reopen within a month under new
thankfully reopened inJuly with a

For Mexican food and drink The nounced Second Scene production1s. ownership primarily as a bar with
price. ----·. ----· typically spectacular performanceMovies will also be shown on a Hacienda in the 100 Center is one Second City is to appear at Century the jazz entertainment and a greatly 
by Duke Tomato and the All-Star

somewhat irregular basis in option, though their regular 19 Center on September 17. 
scaled-back menu. 


···················~···························································· 
The Observer Features Section 
Friday, September 3, 1982-page 11 


The melancholy Irish 
A ndrew Greeley, whom Ido not know, mentioned in .lUnote this morning that he hears I am a melancholy Irishman. "There are other kinds?" asks Father Greeley. Wilfred Sheed says a writer wouldn't even want to go to heaven if he couldn't write about it afterwards. I feel the same way about getting letters, although I am more responsible with my mail than that. Father Greeley's question (and I hope he doesn't mind) was helpful in making me decide to write for you about my mother's death. She died in Maine ten days ago, at the age of eighty-seven. Shakspeare's Coriolanus hesitated to show his wounds before a Roman mob in the way a conquering general was expected to do, because he had 
Rev. Robett CitiHin 
letters to Q lonely god 

contempt for the crowd. I hesitate to smudge words on the page ofa newspaper, because I respect you so much. I have acquired a local reputation as a laureate of lonliness; and I'm sensitive about students thinking I've 
pitched my tent in the land ofsadness. In twelve years of 
writing this column, I have often told stories ofmy mot­
her. Now I want to do so as a journalistic Amen. She is 
gone, and I'm getting used to the idea. Death, when it 
came, was welcome as a friend. 
Most ofthe Irish in me comesfrom my mother. Maura (I'm relying on memory) in Synge's play, Riders to the Sea, says as an epitaph offatalism to her sons, drowned off Galway, "They are all gone now, and I can be at· · peace." Nothing as bad can happen again. Dread departs, and one can be sadly content: no more rapping on wood to keep bad luck away. No more placating Fate 
-Fate, which is not quite God, though you can't be 
sure -that can suddenly twist events into an ap­
pearance ofcosmic irony. 
My mother, if she had lost her sons, could have 
spokep Maura's lines. I could speak Maura's line about 
my mother: she is gone; be.cause she is at peace, I am at 
peace with her going. 
I was a Catholic ahead ofmy mother, but I still feel I owe my faith and vocation to her. Once again, she was Irish; Anglo-Irish, perhaps, with her father born in Lon­don. The Irish, she would remind me, are a witty race given to thick headedness, drinking, and sentimentality which can be more than a little tragic. IfI were Mary Mulkerrin's son, 1 was some ofthose things too; a little better, and a little worse offin my bloodlines than my Yankee father. The Irish, traditionally, she said, were Catholic, though not all ofthem. Our family wasn't Catholic, and neither was she; but, by good luck or bad luck, she was closer to the Church than I was. She had met priests; she recognized a scapular. She once owned a rosary, and knew the words ofthe Hail Mary. Two secrets my mother kept from my father were her resis­tance ofhis harsh opinion ofCaholics and her admira­tion for Franklin Roosevelt as president. 
She fought my becoming a Catholic, because it would hurt my father. But early on, she accepted with reluc­tat1Ce my decision to become a priest. Whatever forgiveness my father offered me in the brieftime before his death, my mother coaxed out ofhim. 
Two years after I was ordained, my mother quitely ar­ranged her own life as a Catholic, without ever telling me a word. Out ofthe Church, she was a little Catholic; inside the Church, she had Protestant leanings. She would flavor the Friday fish with a few pork scraps to give it flavor. "What's the harm ofit?" she said, when I found her doing it. The rules weren't written with a comp1on sense as big as my mother's. She never played the role ofpriest's mother. Once, when there were 
strangers in the house, she introduced me as mister. 
Never, in twenty-eight years, did she attend a Mass of 
mine. Only at her funeral, last week, did I celebrate a 
Mass in her presence, when, God love her, she was a 
captive audience. The only sacrament I ever gave her 
was an absolution, when she was close to dying, and she 
didn't know it was happening. A few minutes before, 
she had asked: "Did you call me mama?" Death wasn't 
'kind to keep her waiting so long. 
With her little Catholic grandchilren, she was mother machree. She taught them their catechism, and they said morning and evening prayers together. Her own daily prayer for all ofus, she told me, was: "Keep them from pain, and keep them from sin." The simplicity of faith could not have been surpassed in all ofGalway. My mother, in an Irish way, knew the language ofthe heart. 
"The Irish are not the only ones who are melancho­ly," Father Greeley wrote me. They certainly have a gift for it, I'm sure he would agree, with their Cathleen Manourneens and their Isle ofTralee. My mother knew about the gray Galway shore, with its churchyards where the dead had died young; because ofthe poverty, they were better offthan the living. She would mention, as a part ofstory telling on St. Patrick's day, the women and children who had died in the great hunger with green foam flecking their lips because they had tried to eat grass. She sang one or two ofthe songs ofthe men and boys who had died in war for the honor ofCathleen ni Houlihan and the Dark Rosaleen. The sufferings she had heard bout became part ofher because she was Irish, and she understood the reasons why the Irish people wept. 
Rain began to fall as we were saying the final prayers 
in a cemetery at the edge ofthe sea The Irish say a 
gentle rain blesses the dead. Maine might have been 
Galway, with the good Maine earth as the land ofsaints, 
with green hills in the distance and the sea around us as 
tricky as life itself. 
My mother's final words to my father, as she left him, 
were: "Good night, Jerry." Taking my cue from her,l 
said: "Good night, mother." 
Andrew Greeley himself, I think, might have ap­
plauded the melancholy. 


DINER: more than justa meal 
'VJhen a motion picture can in­
W troduce us to characters whose qualities and faults allow us to empathise and grow to be pretty goo9 friends with what are actually two-dimensional shadows being projected onto a screen, that motion picture has achieved its goal. Barry Levinson'sDiner is an all too rare ex­ample ofsuch a film. 
Dennis Chalifout 
movie review 

Diner describes the lives offive guyswho frequent a Baltimore diner during the last moments ofthe 1950's. The heart ofthe film is based within the dialogue these characters carry on between each other. There is no real narrative to this film perse, but several sub plots or slice-of-life set pieces which in the end, get into a thoughtful examination ofmale cameraderie. A strong narrative is made unnecessary when a director is able to intimately draw his audience into the real lives ofvital <;:haracters. Perhaps what enables Diner to succeedmore than any­thing else, is the fact that it rein­forces a theme concerning the bonds offriendship with a true bond offriendship that develops between 
the audience and its players. 
The dialogue in this film is some of the best I have ever encountered. Subjects as diverse as whetherornot one intends to finish the other halfof one's sandwich, and the inability to pay off a bookie get the equal light they do in real conversation. But 
-The CQat of mostly 
unknown, young 
Qctota hQa been Qasembled with auch 
perfection thQt I CQn not &Qy enough Qbout 


them••• 
Levinson achieves this qualitY -witli=­out becoming petty or pointless. All these subjects get equal attention among the five friends and, in turn, 
become equally important to us. 
What is probably the most pleas­ing aspect ofDiner (among a literal salvo of"nice touches"), is its ability to achieve its humor without stoop-, ing to the lower comic book type of humor that has infiltrated most of the comedies coming out of Hol­lywood today. Many ofthe laughs that Levinson serves up seem more like inside jokes. We are able to iden­tify with the humor within the con­text ofthe film and our own lives. 

Agood example ofhow this film attempts to set itself apart from "Animal House" fare is the opening shot. A subjective camera slowly tracks into a party. live music is being played and gradually we recognize the song on the sound track -"Shout". But as the volume increases, we discover that the song isn't really being played all that well. Levinson has rightfully chosen to sacrifice the flashiness ofa Hol­lywood music number for a truer mood which may not set our toes to tapping but gives us a more honest portrayal ofhow this party is being perceived by the main characters. 
The cast ofmostly unknown young actors has been assembled with such perfection that I cannot say enough about them. Suffice it to say tha every ounce ofperformance in this film is filled to the brim with the life that makes a film great. 
I strongly recommend this movie to anyone who would like to have a good laugh, meet some interesting people, and make a few cinematic friends. Diner is truly the "smile of • the year." 

W
ith one week ofclasses behind us and minor, varied assign­
ments ofnogenuine importance except that they may be on 
an exam on some obscure day weeks from now, "play" time is in 
abundance. Besides, Saturday and Sunday are for studying, not the 
nights. Though the list ofevents is small, that is not a comment on on 
their quality. 
At the heart of the weekend activity at Notre Dame/Saint Mary's are the various social gatherings we enjoy with our friends. You may choose to do that privately or with large groups ofpeople. If you should find yourselfwithout something to do, or your best friend and you are being terribly indecisive, turn to "Weekend" every Friday for some suggestions. · 
"Weekend" is the column to turn to ifyou have come to wit:s end 
and are looking forward (with great trepidation) to a lonely 
weekend evening with nothing to do. There are a few mainstay ac­
tivities, movies, the Nazz and Chautauqua, and peppered in between, 
theatre and dance productions, art exhibits and concerts. 
As we all have been experiencing this week, school work is slow 
gettingstarted. The theatre and dance departments are slowly begin­
ning to wind up for their seasons with open auditions having taken 
place Wednesday and last night and future auditions yet to be 
scheduled. We have these productions to look forward to in the near 
future. 
In the meantime, do not despair. There are enough things on 
campus to do to keep everyone occupied. 
•Movies 
The first edition ofthe Friday Night Film Series will beAtlantic 
City. A film ignored by much ofthe mainstream audience, it brought 
Burt Lancaster an Academy Award nomination for best actor. It 
shows the east coast gambling city in all ofits glitter and decadence. 
Annenberg Auditorium is the sight for all presentations of both the 
Monday and Friday Night Film Series. Showtime is 7:30 and the cost 
is $2.00. 
As usual, Emil's flocks ofchemistry students are making room for the almost nightly Engineering Auditorium movie. Friday and Satur­day nights, Mr. Roberts, starring Henry Fonda, James Cagney and Jack Lemmon will be presented by the Film Club ofNotre Dame. One dollar will allow you to attend any one ofthe showings at 7. 9: 15 or 11:30 p.m. 
•Music 
Acouple of musical events will take the stage this weekend. As a part ofthe "Catch that Domer Spirit" campaign to welcome us all back to campus, The Toons will appear on the south quad at 7 p.m. tonight. Ifthe skies insist on opening up and showering little rain droplets on us, it will be held in Stepan Center. 
On the Saint Mary's North Quad, SoundShowcase sponsored by. the I982-I983 Saint Mary'~ College Performing Arts Series will feature the sounds of"Uptown," "Straight Flush," and "The Tony Brown Band". Music fans can move to the sounds ofjazz, rock and · reggae as these bands play from I p.m. to 7 p.m. 
•Art 
An exhibition of 20th Century Sculptors' Drawings from the Museum ofModern Art will open at the Snite Museum ofArt Sunday, September 5 and will remain on view through October I 0. The show contains works from the Museum of Modem Art's collection which spans the last one hundred years. The drawings range from rapidly executed sketches for achieved pieces to finished and independent works on paper which "serve as graphic analogues" to clarify the sculptor's plastic concerns. Some ofthe artists featured are Henry Moore, Claes Olenburg, Alexander Calder and Robert Rauchenberg.· The exhibit can be viewed during regular Snite Museum hours. 
•outlook 
• Concerts 
The ACC will be occupied with two concerts this week for which 
tickets should be obtained soon. The concert stage will bring forth 
Rick Springfield and his band Tuesday night, and it will be dark for 
four days only to be lit back up for Barbara Mandrell and her show 
Saturday night. It's concert time for just about any music fan this 
week with these two visiting. Take the opportunity to start off the 
semester with one ofthese class acts. 
Although September 28 seems to be a long way off, it is not too 
soon to be thinkingabout tickets for Pure Prairie League's concert at 
the Morris Civic Auditorium at 8 p.m. that evening. Tickets are $9.50 
reserved and will go on sale this Thursday, September 9, at River City 
Recordsonlyat their store on U.S. 3I North. Morris Civic will not be 
selling tickets for this concert so you had best mosey on out to River 
City and buy them. 
Concert Postscript 
Notre Dame/Saint Mary's students responded heavily to "The Who" ticket package offered by River City Records. Because River City was treated to the sight ofNotre-Dame/Saint M!IJ'Y's students arriving via various means oftransportation includi lg bicycle and jogging shoes, they would like all ofyou ticket holders to know that they will be providing transportation from campus both afternoons at 3:45p.m. from the Main Circle. The buswill take you to River City Records where you will be checked in and reboard the bus to take you to the concert. 
~ a 
&¥ 0 ··­
.. 

The Observer Friday, September 3, 1982-page 12 

THE IARIWITH THE CHEVROI 
---------~ 

--------~-----~-~----------~ 
I 
l 
Friday, September 3, 1982-page 13 • J
The Observer I 
I
-------,---·­
Ir
Welcome Back to Notre Dame*o~ 
Tepe's super



NOW IT'S EASY TO MAKE CRUNCHY 
low price 
--..._


CARAMEL CORN OR TASTY $29.97 
wesreENO 1440
..._..­


CHEESE CORN! 
uss soo
REBATE 
;~~COST $24.97 
12" West Bend


~---------___JL____~~--$55.50·~~~~~-J 
Electric Skillet with SilverStone · Pops up to 25% more popcorn STIRS ITSELF FOR: tv1ixing ring allows tor easy 
Sensa-Temp hea1 control and Silverstone a supenor

than ordmary poppers using the • Fewer unpopped kernels. even mixing of popcorn with non-stick mtenOI. that s 3 layers !htck f01 added cturabthty Sklllet ts tmmerstble and
sarr-e amount of corn and less oil. • Bigger. flullier popcorn. coating. 
dlshwasher.sate Wllh heat control 

~ Easy caramel making. removed Constructed ol heaVvwetght alurrunum tor test even heating 
--..._ M~GSugrer $41.50 
wesrae.o­9447 Almond 

Anytime'~ ~ Hot Pot'M 

MFGSugrel $25.75
Tepe'slowprice $22.92

5-9 Cup Heat 'n Server Percolator 
,., :'•':;·J:Ictem 
, .• -r.:t-.h~ control 
$12.92 

! -, "·:-~toY cups 
~ .. •!:Pf' and keep 1· ·· 1 ~..,. ·\1-serve 
~ 

~.~ · ..1·1~~ 'WPIQhf -:.ltlm1ntdt: 
WEST BEN:>. 

~ ·: ··• :-i.J.Tidhng 
~ 

!"·u· ; · ;<\"Ish.: h..t:..·• .-.r:th cool 
llp .~·· ;. v.11 Jock 
heats liquids in a hurry! 

• Heats soup, milk, tea, Tepe'slow price coffee, water FAST 
$14.97 • 2 to 6 cup capacity (36 oz.) 
• 5 heat settings, Hot Pepper color. 

YOUR CHOICE OF FISHER DRY ROASTED.SALTED OR -U-NSALTED 
P-EANUTS {12oz size) WITH A WEST BEND PURCHASE OF $25.00or more. OFFER EXPIRES SEPT. 11, 1982~ 
....-'................ 

NORELCO CLEAN AIR MACHINE 
HB0999 

• 
Helps remove tobacco smoke, odors. dust, even pollen from the air. 

• 
Costs only pennies a day lor continuous 24 hour usage. 

• 
,Quiet, energy efficient motor recirculates cleaner, fresher air. 

• 
Convenie'1t on/off sw.tch. • .Compact size. Tepe ·slow price $11.94 


Norelco Mails You ...... _.. _.. _. . . . $ 2.00* YOUR COST ONLY ............. _. . . . . . S9.94­
*Limited time offer. See sales clerk for details. 

® 
Norelco Clean Air Machine Replacement Ftlters .. _ Available Scented or Unscented. 
ONLY $3.97 
AI I 
troretco~ 
STORE NAME 
~ North Amencan Philips Corpora11on 1982 

COME VISIT TEPE'S N-EW DESIGNER CLOTHING DEPARTMENT IN OUR MISHAV/ AKA STORE Featur;ng such names as 


puritan~




v.::S•.•..~ 
for Murjani 

JOf~DACHE 


AN EXAMPLE OF TEPE'S SAVINGS:  
Men's LEE Rider jeans  MFG Sug ret $25.00  . Tepe 's everyday low price $17.5 7  
Ladies LEE Rider jeans  MFG Sug ret $31.00  Tepe 's everyday low price $23.97  

---~ -­


~j)()11tS:l:~:~=:i:~~S========~================:======Fr=id=a=y,=Se=p=te=m=b=e=r3=,=1=98=2===pa=g=e==14 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
Richard "Digger" Phelps, coach of the Notre 
Dame basketball team will be holding a press conference at 8:30 a.m., reportedly to discuss his recent conference in Chicago. It is not known whether or not Phelps will comment on Barry Spencer's academic status. -The Observer 
The initial practice for the Notre Dame women's soc­cer club will be held tomorrow at 10 a.m. at Stepan Field. Anyone interested is invited to attend. Ashort organizational meetingwill be held before the practice starts. -The Observer 
The Non-VarsityAthleticoffice has announced the first set of registration deadlines for the early fall's interhall sports. All interested students can sign up to participate in the following sports: interhall tennis (men's and women's singles, mixed doubles); 

grad-faculty tennis (same); 16-inch softball; and co-ree softball. Deadline for these sign-ups is Tuesday, September 7. Interhall foot­ball signups also will take place in the next week, but will be con­ducted within the individual dormatories. For more information, contact your dorm's athletic commissioner or call the new 24-hour NVA phone-line at 239-5100.-The Observer 
Irish basketball greats Adrian Dantley, Kelly 
Tripucka and-Austin Carr headli1;1e a list of 18 former Notre Dame 
players who will be returning to the ACC September 18 to par­
ticipate in the Logan Center Benifit Basketball Game. The game is 
being organized by Notre Dame assistant basketball coaches Gary 
Brokaw andjohn Shumate, both former Irish All-Americans who will 
play in the game. "It will be a great opportunity for all of us to help 
give something back to the Soutq Bend community and enable local 
fans to do the same," said Brokaw. Tip-off is set for I p.m. on Satur­
day, September 18, just seven hours before Notre Dame opens its 
1982 football season against Michigan at Notre Dame stadium. Tick­
ets are 56 in the lower arena and 54 for upper arena. Tickets are 
selling fast at Gate 10 ofthe ACC. -The Observer 
Notre Dan1e's Varsity Hockeyteam is holding an 
organizational meeting Monday at the ACC auditorium for all in­terested in trying out for the team at 4 p.m. Call Coach Lefty Smith at 239-5227 for more information. -TheObserver 
The Water Polo Clubwill be holding an organizational meeting Monday at 4:30p.m. in the Caron court of Lafortune. New members welcome. Questions callJohn at 6837. -The Observer. 
Associated Press picks 
College :football season begins 
By HERSCHEL NISSENSON 
AssociatedPress 
Ready or not, here comes the col· lege football season. 
Tulane's hosts Mississippi State tomorrow afternoon and Coach Vince Gibson is in midseason form with the crying towel. Most coaches probably feel the same way Gibson does, but they don't express their feelings quite so eloquently. 
"You look at them and all their linemen's rumps are about this wide," Gibson lamented, holding his hands about four feet apart. "They are bigger than the (New Orleans) Saints. They are big and rough and well-coached and I don't know how we're going to stop them. We'll just have to hope they make a mistake." 
The first prediction of the year is that every team in the country will make at least one first down and score at least one touchdown this season. Even Tulane, which, Gibson will be surprised to learn, is only a 4-point underdog ro Mississipp. State. Gibson has this corner con­vinced, though ...Mississippi State 21-14. 
The first week of the season finds six members ofThe Associated Press preseason Top Twenty knocking hc:ads with each other. 
No. 1 5 Miami at No. 16 Florida 
(3.5 ): those late field goals still stick in the Gators' craw. Two years ago, Miami kicked one in the last second to rub it in and complete a 31-7 rout. Last season, Danny Miller caromed a 55-yarder off the"'!rfjright with 45 s'econds to play for a 21-20 Miami triumph. This time ...Florida 28­
17. 
No. 11 Clemson at No. 7 Georgia 
(favored by 1.5): will Herschel 
Walker play or won't he in this Mon­
day night ABC-TV game? Either way, 
the Bulldogs have something to 
prove after committing nine tur· 
novers in a 13-3 loss to Clemson a 
year ago: Georgia 17-10. 
No. 5 North Carolina at No. 1 Pitt: 



Sportsboard 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

East  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
St. Lows  76  56  .576  
Philadelphia  73  60  .549  3~5  
Montreal  71  62  534  5.5  
Pittsburgh  70  63  526  6.5  
Chicago  59  75  440  18  
New York  51  80  389  24.5  
West  
Atlanta  75  58  564  
Los Angeles  74  60  552  1 5  
San D1ego  69  65  .515  6.5  
San Francisco  66  67  496  9  
Houston  63  70  474  12  
C1nc1nnati  51  82  .383  24  

Yesterday's Results No games scheduled 

Today's Games Atlanta (N1ekro 13-3) at Montreal (Lea 1 1-7), (n) Cmc1nnat1 (Pastore 7-10) at New York (Ownbey 0-1 ). (n) Houston (N1ekro 13-9) at Philadelphia (Carlton 1 7-9), (n) Ch1cago (Noles 8~10) at San D1ego (Show 9-4). (n) Pittsburgh (Aob1nson 1 4-8) at Los Angeles (Welsh 
15~9), (n) St. Lows(Forsch 13-8) at San Franc1sco (Hammaker 9-7), (n) 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
East  
w  L  
Milwaukee  78  53  
Boston  74  58  
Baltimore  73  58  
New York  67  64  
Detrort  66  64  
Cleveland  61  67  
Toronto  61  73  
West  
KansasC1ty  77  56  
Gahforma  75  57  
Ch1cago  69  62  
Seattle  62  70  
Oakland  58  76  
Texas  52  79  
Minnesota  48  84  

Today'aGames 
Milwaukee 2, Cleveland 1, (1st) 
~!Jiwaukee 4. Cleveland 2, (2nd) 
Detro1t 6, Cahforma 3 
Chicago 6, Texas 5 (10 1nn) Friday's Games Seattle at Boston Minnesota at Baltimore Oakland at Detro1t Toronto at Cleveland Gahorma at Milwaukee Texas at Ch1cago New York at Kansas C1ty 
Pet.  GB  
595  
.561  45  
557  5  
.511  11  
SOB  11.5  

477 15.5 455 18.5 
579 .568 1 5 .527 7 .470 14.5 433 19.5 ~397 24 
384 28.5 
.:,-1ull. yet on this Thursday night classic which kicks off CBS-TV's series. The passing of Pitt's Dan Marino and the running ofCarolina's Kelvin Bryant could provide one of the better games ofthe year: Pitt 31· 21. 
Temple at No. 8 Penn State (24): 
Temple used to give the Nittany 
Lions fits, but not any more: Penn 
State 42-7. 
No. 19 Arizona State ( 1 1 ) at 
Oregon: after a lengthy probation, 
the Sun Devils should be back in the 
bowl business: Arizona State 24-7. 
Other games: 
East -Syracuse 20, Rutgers (I) 
13. 
South -Florida State 21, Cincin­nati 10; Louisville 17, Western Ken­tucky 14; Mississippi (9. 5) 24, Memphis State 14; North Carolina State 35, Furman 14; Virginia Tech 35, Richmond 6; South Carolina 28, Pacific 14; Southern Mississippi 31, Northeast Louisiana 21; Tennessee 
( 3) 24, Duke 20; Wake Forest 30, Western Carolina 16. 
Midwest -Central Michigan 21, Indiana State 7; Illinois (33) 35, Northwestern 7; Missouri 34, Colorado State 14; Toledo 24, Northern Illinois 13; Wichita State 26, Missouri-Rolla 13. 
Southwest · Baylor 35, North Texas State 0; Texas A&M ( 15) 27, Boston College 17; Tulsa 21, Air Force 20. 
Far West · Fullerton State 33, Northern Arizona 21; Texas-El aso 28, New Mexico State 24; Utah 31, ~ Montana State 17; Wyoming 20, New Mexico 15. 


Support the 

March of Dimes 
-BIIlTH DEFECTS FOUNDATJON­
dp 






Classifieds 
The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However, classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the bustness day prior to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid, erther in person or through the mail. 
LOST: A Cross pencil, black and with the Inscription Daniel J. O'Hare on it. Please call 1 858 ~ you know the whereabouts of 
NOTICES 

FOR SALE 
this very dear pencil that has alot of sentil­

IMPROVE YOUR GRADES! Research mental value to me. Thank vary much. BOOKS FOR SALE: 
catalog-306 pages-10,278 topics-Rush FOR COURSES: GOV"T 342,$1 ~00 to Box 25097C, Los Angeles, COM PARA TIVE-GOVT90025. (213) 477-8226. 

relations govT 141, INTL RELATIONS-ENG 386, MAJOR 
............................. 
FOR RENT
COME TO THE KEENAN USED BOOK AMERICAN WAITERS-ACCT 261,SALEI!I We have used books for great BASIC ACCT-HIST 301, DOMINATIONprices. Featuring many freshman books." 

ANDDEP.
Sale will be held in Keenan lobby outside chapelfrom Sto 7thru Friday~ Avoid those Mature student can share large home with high prices at the bookstore and take a 2 others. Laundry, TV, stereo, utensils 

BOOKS NEEDED FOR COURSES: PHILO 222, EXISTENTIAL THEMES­
look at our selection~ and more. $150/mo. plus $100 deposit. 9 SPANISH 101,-GOVT 343, POLITICAL

month lease. Call Ted 232-5843 -leave 

THEOAY-GOVT 340, AMERICAN
LAST DAY of the ART PRINT SALE! name and number is I am not available. 
Don't delay... THEY WILL NEVER BE GOV"T-THEO 319, WORLD RELIGIONS 

CCHEAPER! Huge selection remains~ FURNISHED HOUSE, TWO BLOCKS CALL CHRIS AT 283-3510 ANYTIME. 
Until 4:30pm onlyI LaFortune Center. FROM N~D. AND COUNTRY HOUSE 10 ................................................................ MINUTES FROM N.D. CALL 277-3604. 1978 Yellow MG Midget convertible. New The ART PAINT SALE ENDS TODAY AT ......... top luggage rack, racing stripes, AM-FM 
4:30 IN LAFORTUNE! Share a house at 605 N. St. Peter, com­Stereo Radio-Tape Deck. 12,000 miles. pletely furnished. Room for lour more. 
Stored in Winter. Mint condition. $5000. MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student loans 277-3336
Drop by house or call 288-3942 after 5. -$20 -$200~ One percent interest. Due in one month, One day wait. Open M-F for sale 
Furnished 2-bedroom Apt., $250/month 1 1 :30-1 2:30 in LaFortune basement includes all utilities, CLEAN, newly couches $35 up 
remodeled. Convenient location 763 chairs$5up PLEASE HELP! Several Items were lost L.W.E. -just off of Eddy St. ramp. 233-free delivery to dorm when Lyons Hall Storage was returned 83BB. call mrs cooper 272-3004 
outside the dorm th1s week. If you know 
anything about the whereabouts of the FURNISHED HOUSING: Now available, Stereo Equipment 
items, Please call Susan at 7942. one and two bedroom duplex and a 4 All top brands at low prices from a student bedroom house~ Near campus: 713 and rep. on campus~ Why pay for a 718 St. Louis~ Call259-3439 showroom? saw $$$$ Bose,Nikko,HK Genesis many morel Gel the stereo CLEAN nNO BEDROOM PARTY you·ve always wanted now! call J.B. late
·1 LOST/FOUND 
HOUSE, 2nd house from Corby's on S B pm at8286 Ave. New kitchen, paint, insulation, etc. ~ Attention AlfNotre Dame Students: A pair Gas Heat, all other utilities free~ BEST 

WORD PROCESSING SYSTEM. $2995. 
of brown tinted wire-framed glasses were OFF CAMPUS HOUSE AROUND~ Call 84K Microcomputer. letter quality printer, accidentally taken from the basketball Bill; 232-7135,289-4071 word processing software, CP/M, Basic. 

courts near the Stephen Center on Mon­Call277-7720.

day, August 30. If you or anyone you 
1 male rmmate wanted tor 2 bdrm apt.
know hava information on the $1 15/mo. Utilities paid. 287-5469 Three stereos AM-FM w/record players,whereabouts of the described glasses, it $60, $90, $180. Ph. 233-4908. 

is of the utmost importance that you noti1y 
FURNISHED HOUSE TWO BLOCKS 
David Proctor, a resident of Keenan Hall. 

FROM CAMPUS, ALSO COUNTRY FOR SALE: 2 tickets to the Sept. 4 Diana The room number is 223 and the HOUSE TEN MINUTE FROM N.D. CALL Ross concert in Chicago. Call283-1075 -­telephone number is 3277~ There is a 277-3604 or 288-0955. ask tor Andy. 
$10~00 reward. 
Man·s b1cy-cle~ io-speed, SchwilinVar:-· sity, excellent condition, $80-232-0839. 
........................ ································ 
"77 CELICA GT HDTP., 5· spd, stereo, 
$3300. 293-7269 (Elkhart). 

WANTE[~ 
Dnvers Wanted, must be over 1B. have own car, 1nsurance, and 'Jahd driver's license. Must be able to work nights and weekends. Apply in person at Domino's Pizza, Plaza 23 Center, cornerS. Bend & Vaness, 4:30-9p.m. EOE, M/F. 277-2151 
South Bend Supreme Court Justice needs student for cleric/bailiff position 9­12 Mon., Wed., & Fri~ (more hours ava1lable). Legal expenenc11 helpful, but not required. Good opportunity for Pre­Laws. Call 277-1 309 
TICKETS=:] 
Wanted -two tickets l:ogether for NO/Michigan lootball game~ Will pay cash or swap for one pair 1Jf this year· s Michigan home games. Call 313-464­0600 days or 313-487-4502 niles, ask for Ivan. 
FOR SALE, TWO PAIRS OF MICHIGAN TIX. CALL OONNA AT 684:J, 
DESPARATELY NEED 1 OR 2 MICHI­GAN TIX CALL BILL 8810 $$$$$ 
Need 1 GA OR STUD. Til( lor MICH.·­DOUG6166 
Need 4 tix to tfie Arizona game and 4 tix to either the Miami or Purdue game. Call 312-362-4524 collect after 6 p.m~ 
Save my life-need to buy Michigan ticket before alum sister kills me. GA or student. Call John at 1391. 
NEED 2 TO 4 TIX FOR MICH. GAME. CALL NANCY AT 1273 (G. A."s) 
PERSONALS 
FINANCIAL AIDII We guarantee to find scholarships, grants you're eligible to receive. Application materials -$1.00. Financial Aid Finder, Box 1053-CD, Fair­field, lA 52556. 
THE SOUTH BEND MARAlOTI has tem­porary open1ngs in its dimng room and cocktail lounge for waiters/waitresses. II Interested, call Connie in Personnel 234­
2000. 
LAST DAY -LAST CHANCE -DON'T MISS OUTI The ART PAINT SALE offers an outstandmg se1ect1on of all your favorites at incredibly cheap prices. UN­TIL 4:30pm ONLYI LaFortune Center. 
Part-time quality child care in my !lome. 3 
children~ 233·31146~ 
DO YOU KNOW SOMEONE WITH BULIMIA? Binge eating and purging are common leatures. If so, consider contact­ing COUNSELING & PSYCHOLOGICAL SERVICES. A 1 o-week therapy group begins Sept 13, limited enrollment. Call Dr. Rybicki or Dr. Steibe, 239-7336 for in­formation. 
Charter bus trip to NEIL DIAMOND, Sept. 9, Indiana University, Bloomington, now on sale at River City Records, 50970 U.S~ 31 North. Call 277-4242 for further in­lormation. 
Tickets and bus trip packages are now on sale at River City Records for the tollow­ingevents: 
WILLIE NELSON -Sept. 4, 5 -Poplar Creek KENNY LOGGINS -Sept. 6 ~ Poplar Creek 
THE GQ-GO"s-Sept~ 8 -Poplar Creek 
REO SPEEDWAGON/SURVIVOA ­Sept. 10, 1 1 -Poplar Creek JETHRO TULL -Sept. 12 -Poplar Creek DIANA ROSS -Sept. 4, 5 -Rosemont Horizon FLEETWOOD MAC -Sept. 22 -Alpine Valley LIONS vs BEARS -Sept. 12 -Pontiac Silverdome THE WHO! -Oct. 5, 6 -Rosemont Horizon CHUBBY CHECKER -Sept. 7 ­Casey's. Plymouth LIONS vs BALTIMORE -Oct. 3 -Pon­tiac Silverdome 
On sale now at River City Records. 50970 
U.S. 31 North, 3 miles north of campus. Call277-4242 for further information. 
Thousands of posters on sale at River City Records. 50970 U.S~ 31 North. Peaches record crates available. New Bruce Springsteen solo J.p. "Nebraska" due vary soon. Also new Who, Bad Com­pany, Michael Stanley Band and morel 3 miles north of campus, just past last food 
row~ 
All Notre Dame and St. Mary·s women in­terested in joining the ND-SMC crew team please attend a meettng at 8 p.m .. Sept. B. in LaFortune Little Theatre. Any ques­tions, call Jill 234-2331 . 
HUMP CONTROL apologizes for postphon1ng the inaugural HUMP NIGHT and is pleased to announce a BELA TED HUMP NIGHT TONIGHT! SMC women are urged to attend. Same HUMP-TIME, Same HUMP-STATION. signed, HUMPMASTER 



The Observer Friday, September~. 1982-page 15 

Austin wins 
McEnroe advances in U.S. Open 
NEW YORK (AP) -Riding his 
booming serve and moving to the 
net at every chance, top-seeded 
John McEnroe began the defense of 
his U.S. Open tennis championship 
Thursday by downing a stubborn Tim Gullikson 7-6,6-4, 7-5 at the Na­tional Tennis Center. 
Third-seeded Tracy Austin, the I98I women's winner, had to struggle to stave off the upset bid by Beth Norton 7-6, 6·3 in a second­round match. 
The night's final match, pitting No. 3 Ivan Lend! of Czechoslovakia against Tim Mayotte, was suspended when a heavy thunderstorm hit Louis Armstrong Stadium with Lend! leading 6-4, I-2, the Czech serving at 30-I5 in the fourth game. The match is scheduled to be completed today. 
Advancing into the third round of 
the men's singles were sixth-seeded 
Gene Mayer and No.9 Yannick Noah 
of France, while No. 13 Mark Ed­
monds~n of Australia was upset by 
Matt Doyle and No. I5 Raul Ramirez 
of Mexico lost to Schalk van der 
Merwe ofSouth Africa. 
In the women's singles, five-time 
champion Chris Evert Lloyd moved 
into the third round, while No. IO 
Barbara Potter became the first seed 
to be ousted. 
Mayer defeated Stefan Simonsson 
of Sweden 6-2, 6-I, 6-I; Noah 
stopped Brian Gottfried 6-3,6-4, 6-4; 
Doyle surprised Edmondson I-6, 7­
6, 7-5, 6-2 and van der Merwe ousted 
Ramirez 6-2,6-3, 5-7,6-4. 
Lloyd needed just 4I minutes to 
crush Kelly Henry 6-I, 6-I, while 
Potter fell to Ros Fairbank of South 
Africa 6-4, 6-I. 
The world's richest tournament, 
America's premiere tennis event 
runs through Sept. I2, when the 
singles champions will collect 
S90,000 each. 
McEnroe, completing a match 
which had been halted by rain and a 
light failure Wednesday night, 
showed the agility and mobility that 
has carried him to three straight U.S. 
Open titles. 
McEnroe and the right-handed half of the tennis-playing Gullikson rwins had traded service breaks and were tied 3-3 before a battery of lights on the east side of Louis Armstrong Stadium went out Wed­nesday night. Before electricians coud get the lights back on, rain, which had delayed play several times, began again and the match 
was postponed until yesterday. 
The two then held serve, sending the opening set to a tiebreaker which McEnroe won 7·2. 
McEnroe broke Gullikson in the flfth game of the second set as he began dominating play. The defend­in~ champion was holding serve at 

IU's Corso ma~res, ax~s _comedy routine 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (AP) ­Did you hear·the one about the foot­ball coach.who was so funny no one took him seriously? 
That's what has happened to In­diana's Lee Corso, and he says it's time to tone down his repertoire of one-liners and anecdotes. 
"I haven't lost my sense of humor," he said. "But I need to gauge myself on how I use it. You can have too much of anything, including humor. I'm a deeper thinker than sometimes I give the impression, and it bothered me." 
Corso said his constant quips created an image he couldn't con­trol. Everywhere he went -news conferences, alumni gatherings, din­ners -people expected him to be funny. 
"I could sense it at times," he said, snapping his fingers. "Come on, en· tertain us, make us laugh. It got out of hand. Times change and so do people. I have in my own attitude toward . things. I'm older, more mature and a deeper thinker." 
The 46-year-old coach came to In­diana in I973 with a reputation as a prankster. He rode elephants, love or at 15, while Gullikson had to fight back from I5-40 in the third game and from deuce in the seventh. 

Gullikson took a 3-0 lead in the third set, breaking McEnroe in the second game. But McEnroe captured the next five games before Gullikson held serve, then broke McEnroe in the I Oth game. 
McEnroe broke right back in the IIth game, although Gullikson fought off four break points before falling. The champion, serving for the match for the eond time, then closed it out after going to duece. 
paraded turkeys onto the football field, brought his players to the games in a red, double-deck bus. His vibrant personality won a lot of friends. but not too many football games. 
"I think in my case, I allowed my sense ofhumor to be shown in a dif­ferent perspective than what it was. People took it as a sign ofweakness. 
"I kept telling people a sense of humor wasn't a sign ofweakness, but they didn't believe me. I showed a side of me that wasn't always there, but I did it for the purpose ofhelping the players and helping the program along. 

"I think it bothers anybody who has a sense of humor to be called a clown. I think anybody who as the God-given ability, or gift, to make people laugh would tell you the same thing. I went a little too far · with it." 
Corso's change of attitude has been noticed by his players. 
"He's definitely different," says defensive back Tim Wilbur. "He's still funny, but not on the tleld. He's gotten much more serious, and it is reflecting on the players. 

Today was thefinal dayfor tryoutsfor the women's tennis team, 
andplay was tough asfreshman and transfers both made a strong 
effort to place on the team. (Photo by Rachel Blount) 
......~ .......••..•.•.•................•...••.......•...\ ..••.....•• 
... . 
; 
.....­
.£)~L:ffil 
~ 
ml&XH: 
'IUB.,IUJ.ll 
l\:00-b:OO 
l"'FWJ\ 
~1\JHE 
( b.U......) 
..
t .
.
I 
. 
wm.,~PI J. 
'I:OO·b:OO 
2""FLOOR 
l.AJ<ImK. 
(ball......) 
P~a LJ~ -~ ~1.,-\EJ>l. Lf t~lJM.,~EPI.5 3:oo-~·oo
• ..J• P.M. 
'·································,·······························;. 




Bnl<s t_tbfJV 


The Observer Friday, September 3, 1982 -page 16 
--------------------------------·----------------­


Smith leads in B.C. Open 
football players show everything they've got in order to improve 
their chances ofplaying against.\1ichigan. See who is at the top of hisposition at this moment on the depth charts on page20. (Photo by Rachel Blount 
ENDICOTT, N.Y. (AP) -little­known Mike Smith fired a 6-under­par 65 yesterday and took a 2-stroke lead over Tom Kite and jerry Pate after the opening round of the $275,000 B.C. Open. 
Kite, who won the Professional Golfers' Association tour event in 1978, and late-starterjerry Pate held a one-shot advantage over 15 other players, who were stacked at 68, three shots off the pace. 
Smith started in the first threesome of the day and watched his score stand up throughout a long afternoon. 
"I wasn't crazy about teeing off at 8 am., but the sun came out and dried off the course," said Smith, a 32-year-old from Selma, Ala., who did not qualify for the PGA tour until 
1980. 

friday night film series 
A diSilngu1Shea Qrouo ot recent forecgn 111ms allot whcch shed hght on ltle rPiatiOr'!ISf1tp ~twflen aeslllartcs and conu:lrnoorary cunure Held 111 contunchon wtth COTH 485 llmaye ana ldeotoqy) dr'ld soonsored by the Uecarrmenl of Commun,catton anCJ Thaarre All showtr'IQf> en tile Annanb~trg Auditorium, The Snfta Mu•eum or Art, Notre Dam!! Carnpus at 7<:l0 p rn indtvtauaf AdmiSSIOn& $2 00 Senes TICket· Any 25 111ms tram Three senes $30 oo Any t5 films from rnree st:mes $22.00 
September 3 
Atlantic City Lou1s Malle USA color. 103 mm LOUIS Malle one of Frances :xem1er dtrectors. combmes Hollywood hnancmg WJltl a European sensibility 1n capturong bolh 111e superfiCial gill· tar and the undertymg aecadence and decay of the atmospnenc New Jersey gambling Ctly Burt Lancaster won an academy award nom1na­110n lor !he besl performance of his career 
September 10 
Orchatnl Rehearsal (1979) Fedenco Fetllr:~r. Italy, Color. 72 mtn In Italian w1th EngliSh subtitles 
Ttle spectacle of the orchestra retlearsal becomes a metaohOr for the current political chaos of Western Clvtltzallon 1n FelllnJ's most direct com-' ment on lhE! contemporary scene s1nce La Dolce V11a CommtssiOned to 
make a shortlitm takmg place 1'1Stde a rehearsal roan"!. Felltnl delivered an enormously controverstal and glonousry Iunny bombshell 1nsp1red In part by the Aide Mora k1dnapp1ng 
Septefibet 1 7 
That Obacure Object of Desire (19771 Luos Bunuel, Fr;, ce. color, 100 mm 
In French and Span1st1 With English subtitles In thiS darkly humorous sal!rlcal film. Bunuel follows out the surrealrsuc prem1se that the last revolutionary act tn modern t1mes tS to ba madly 1n love-and not to nave seJC wrth the obrect of that love 
I
September 24 
.lonllh Who WillS. 251n the v..r 2000 !19761 
Alalt1 Tanner. Sw1tzertand. color, 110 min. 
In French w1th EngliSh subtitles Tanner descnbes h1s funny, uplillmg, freewheeling, 1ndescnbab1e 111m about etghl veterans of 1988 stranded between revOiut/Ofl and accom­modation as "a dramatic tragi-comedy in poht1cal sc1ence !Jetton" 1976 Nahonal Socrery of F1tm Cnlics Award for Best Screenplay 
October 1 
The Paiaaenger (1975) Michelangelo Antooiom, Italy, color, 119 mtn 
Anton1ont takes allenatton to Its logical conclusion in this moody lhnller starnng Jack N1chotson as a burned-out reporter who escapes h1s own Identity only lo find deadly risks 10 the one he adopts 
Octobet 8 
Chloe In the Afternoon {1972) Eric Rohmer, France, color. 
97 m1n 
In French ~ith English subtitles ,\ In the last ol tus senes of "moral tales." Rohmer casts Bernard Verley as Fredenc. an mrrospect•ve Pans commuter whose moral dilemma 1s posed in terms ot Chloe-a Pans1an bohem1an-or Helene {Francotse 
Verley). h1s suburban W1le 
October 15 
T~ ~va.tor•e Wh (1980) Enc Rohmer. France. color, 104
1 
In French w1th English subtitles Th~ lir.st of Rohmer's new senes. "comedies and proverbs," spins out an tnlncate web of chance meetings and m1ssed connections that unex­
pectedly becomes an oflbeal and com1c detective story A powerful undertow of languorous erotiCism, all the more powerful lor be1ng unre­QUI!ed and understated, mforms the chromcle of a J&alous young slu­
denl's long1ng lor an tndependent older woman 

~------
Novemoer 5 

Rocco and His Brothera (1960) Lucmo V1scontt, Italy. B & 'N 180 m1n In llallan wtlh English su0t1Ues msp1red by !he literary works ol Gtovannt Verga. Dosloevsky and rhe biblical story of Joseph and hts brolhers. Rocco IS both ep1c hiSioncal arama and psychoiOQJCal stuay Spannmg the geograph,cal and socral 
boundanes of Northern llaly 1n ltle 1950s. the drama 1S OlVIded 1n1o 11ve segments. each ol whiCh concerns one Orolher ot a peasam ramtly ltlat m1grares to Mtlan 
November 12 

Contract (1980) Krzystol Zanuss1, Potana. coror, 114 mtn In Polish wrth English sut:ltllles Inspired by the rdea but dtslikmg the eJCecutJOt1 ol Robert Altman's The WerJdmg, Zanuss1 undertook lh1s ambltmus. polyphOmc comedy center· 1ng on a two-day wadding celebration among the Polish haute bourgeoise Balancing buoyant tarce w1th scathmg soc1ai comment, Zanusst pa1nts an eerily prophettc v1s1on of a detenorattng soc1ety headmg relentlessly toward the brmk 
November 19 

Stroazek (1977) Werner Herzog, Germany. color. 108 mm. In English and German w1th Engltsh subtitles A lyrical, melancholy. bllterly Iunny tale of !hree oddly assoned mtslus who follow-the Amencan Dream to Aa11road Flats. Wtscons1n. a godfor­saken truck stop where they l1nd a bleak eldorado ol TV Football. CB rad1o. and mobile homesteadmg 
December 3 

The Margie Pluta {1975) lngmar Bergman. Sweden. color, 134 mon 
In Swedrsll wrl/1 Engltsh subflfles Thrs adaptatton ol Mozart's opera IS a luscious. thoroughly en1oyabte tnumph. Mozart's score. accompanied by a SwediSh vers1on ollhe Iynes, supplies the backbone of thiS tale ol rove. mag1c and quest as 11 follows a patr ol star-crossed lovers and an 1mp1sh lillie man whose greatest des•re 1s to lind a w1le. 
December 10 

Man of M8rble {1977) Andrzer Wad1a. Poland, color. 160 m1n 
In Polish w1th English subtttles L1ke Cttizen Kane. an eptc 1nvest1gahon of a man's life Marble tallows a young filmmaker as she unravels lhe life ot Mateusz 81rkut. government­created hero of the '50s work1ng class. Accta1med by Godard as "tfie most SIQt11ftcant him tn the rasll1ve years" and by other crlllcs as "the most eflechvely poht1cal 111m smce z" 
N()JRE LVHIE/\.1111\if ;'fjljRf~ 
CfUIIVHIJNIICAilllfUN
iJllriEAil~E 
"The key today was driving the b~Lil. I kept it in the fairway and that's important here. I also got a little lucky with couple of chip-ins," added Smith after recording his lowest score during a competitive event. 
Smith played the front nine in 5­under-par 32. He started a string of three straight birdies on the front '>ide by chipping-in from 20 feet away on the seventh hole. Another was an 80-footer on No. 15 for_his only birdie on the back nine. 
Forty-eight of156 entrants this 72 hole event broke par-71 on the 6,966-yard En-Joie Golf Club Course. A total of 15 players shot 69, another 15 fired 70 and 21 were bunched at par, including Craig Stadler, who shot to the top ofgolfs money heap at 5428,101 by winning the World Series of Golf in Akron, Ohio la'>t week. 
Lee Trevino shot a l-over 72 in his first start since the U.S. Open ast 
• • . Quarterbacks 
continuedfrom Pll!-(e .!0 
Tampa Bay and San Francisco at Seattle. Tomorrow, it's Baltimore at 
· Chicago, Clcvdand at the Los An· geles Raitlt:rs, San D1cgo at the Los Angeles Rams, Dtcnver at the Jets, Detroit at Buffalo, Green Bay at New England, Houst<m at Dallas, Kansa.' City at St. Louis and Philaddphia at Pirtsburgh. 
..We're going ro play it pretty much like a regular-~eason game, play ro win it,'' Coach Ray Perkins said of the Giants' visit to Miami. "But because of certain cir­cumstances at certain positions, we've got to make some decisions. We've got to make some decisions 
about ll people by next Monday, ·and some of them are going to be hard." 
-~-----------------­
••,..*******************************W:1
i LETTUCE SERVE YOU ! 
: AT : 
i The I;IUDDLE ! 
: alhhis week : 
i -~ Free coffee refills i
. .. 
: unt~ 10:30 am :. 
: " Soup of the day only IS~ ~ 
. .
• ,.,ith purchase of any sandwiCh 10:30 ·2:00am 1
: . .
i ,. Free Soft drink ~ 
• with the purchase of sandwich and fries •
! 4:00-S:OOpm ·!
. .......................... . ~ The DEll i
i free cole slaw 7:30am through 11:00 pm : : with purchase of any deli sandwich. ! **********************************' 
·--~--------.-.-­




r.2~l,~f.~L 
S1ECHUAJI-CA,YTONESE-AMERICA/I 

CHUCK WHITE 
~ -~ 
At The Piano Bar 
s~e Chuck t:nr~ Tues. thru Sat. 8:0H r..m.-l:CO a.m.....Enjoy Lil'l!! 
•Dancing• Drinks• Din~;~er 
• HospitaliJy• Reasonab.k Prices 
Lunch Special 
$1.99 to $4.25 
''7he Best Chinese Food You 'veEver h'u,i'. 
HOURS: OPEN 7 DAYS 
Mon.·Thur 11:30 a.m.-10:00 p.m AWEEK "ri. & Sat. 11:30a.m.-11:00p.m. Sun. & Holidays 4 p.m.-9:00p.m. 
130 DIXIE HWY. SOUTH Happy Hour 5-7 PM SOUTH BEND(Roseland) B~NQUET ROOMS & Next fo Randall's Inn 
GROUP RATES 
AVAILABU 272-7376 
June LO. Trevino underwent back 
surgery to cure a pinched nerveJuly 
1. 
Smith started hot, rolling in birdie puts of 1 and 15 feet on the secon­dand third holes before suffering his only bogey when his first shot landed in a bunker on No.4, a 221­yard, par-3. 
Kite started on the back nine and 
went to the 14th hole without a par 
after going birdie-bogey-birdie­
birdie in his first four. 
Kite sank a pair of 15-foot putts for 
a pair of birdies before the turn and, 
like Smith, had one birdie on his way 
back to the clubhouse. 
However, Kite pulled his ap· 
proach shot on his last hole, the par­
4, 425-yard nine, pitched within 12 
feet, but then two-putted for a 
bogey. 
Pate, one ofthe last to finish after a 
rainstorm halted play for 40 minutes 
in the afternoon, had 1 0 pars and 
four birdies. 
Stabler. who made his debut for New Orlean~ with 20 minutes to play l:a.~t Saturday mght ami directed two scoring drives to pull the Sam1s into a I 7-17 tie~ bdore they lost 20­1 7 ).. said that performance "doesn· t mean that much to me personally. One game Jot"sn't make J. season. Don't get roo excited." 
!king back wirh Bum Phillips, his coacll m llouston two years ago, ob· viously pkases Srabler. "From a per­sonal :.tam.Jpoint, last season wa~ a dba.">ter.'' he !>atd ofthe Oilers under Bum's successor, Eddte Biles. "All the fun hall gone out ofthe game. It's Jitlerent now. I feel comfortable with Bum.·· 
Bum obviously feels comfortable with StaMer, "He hasn't lost any­thing except ·endurance," Phillips said following the game against the Browns. "He has to get himself in a little better condition, but that will come." 

, , .Moses 
continuedfrom page 20 
Fentress said the big center was excited at the prospect of joining the 76ers. 
The 76ers won the NBA's Eastern Conference title last season, beating Boston four games to three, but lost to Los Angeles, four games to two in the NBA final round. 
Malone jumped to pro basketball in 1974 from Petersburg High School, signingwith Utah ofthe now defunct American Basketball As­sociation 


The Observer Friday, September 3, 1982 -page 17 
U.S. Amateur begins, Nat Crosby defeated 
. . . 



BROOKLINE, Mass. (AP) ­Veteran international player Jay Sigel and two U.S. Walker Cup teammates advanced with a pair of victories, while defending cham­pion Nathaniel Crosby was upset yesterday as match play began in the 82nd U.S. Amateur golf champion­ship. 
Sigel, the 1980 British Amateur champion, eliminated co-medalist Bob Lewis Jr., 3 and 2, in the early­morning start of match play, then edged Taylor Metcalfe, 1-up in 21 holes later in the day. 
Joining Sigel in the round of 16 were Walker Cup players Jim Holtgrieve and Corey Pavin and two All-Americans, Rick Fehr of Brigham Young and Jim Hallet of Bryant Col­lege in Smithfield, RI. 
Crosby, the pre-tournament favorite as the low amateur in the 
U.S. Open and recent winner of the prestigious Porter Cup, was eliminated in 19 holes by Tom Pernice Jr., a Kansas City resident who was graduated from UCLA last June. 
Holtgrieve, who defeated James Kilduff of Summit, N.J., 2-up in the opening round, then ruined Pernie's hopes with a smashing 5 and 4 vic­tory in the afternoon. 
Pavin, of Oxnard, Calif., had little trouble in advancing. He whipped Joe Tamburino, of San Jose, Calif., 5 and 4 in the morning, and Kevin Dil­len, of Paris, Tex., by the same score in the second round. 
Fehr, the Western Amateur cham­pion who lives in Seattle, had to rally on the back nine for a 1-up victory over Andrew Magee ofDallas. Then, completing a stretch of I 0 birdees in 22 holes, he overwhelmed Kevin Klier of nearby Rockland, Mass., 7 and6. 
Hallet, the Massachusetts and New England amateur champion, kept local hopes alive by edgingJim­my Squiers, ofConroe, Tex., 2 and I, and then out-lasting Troy Reiser, of Fort Worth, Tex., in 20 holes. 
Walker Cup player Frank Fuhrer breezed to a 7 and 5 triumph over Chip Hall ofJacksonville Beach, Fla., then was upset, 3 a,nd 2, by Dave Delong of Portland, Ore. 
Co-medalist Bob Stanger, the for­mer Duke golf captain who is assis­tant golfcoach at the school, moved alon t g with a pair of victories. He eliminated Stan Bickel, of Bellevue, Ky., 2-up, ;md Gary Iipski, of Cock­eysville, Md., 1-up. 
Lipski had upset All-American Willie Wood of Oklahoma State, 1­up, in the first round. 
Others moving into this morn­ing's third round were Julian Taylor, of Youngstown, Ohio; David-Tentis, of White. 6ear Lake, Minn.; Brad Heninger, of San Jose, Calif.; Kei Slater, of San Diego; Ro Biancalana, ofFranklin Park, Ill.; Ed Humenik, of Allen Park, Mich.; Timothy Krapfel, of Columbia, S.C.; Kent Frandsen, of Lebanon, Ind., and David Tolley, of Roanoke, Va. 
The third round will be followed this afternoon by the quarterfinals. The semillnals are Saturday. A 36­hole championship is set for Sunday. 
IJ I 
CHARGE IT TODAY··· ·AT AYRES! flhone your orders any day, any hour: 

.'• 
Dial toll free 1-800-345-8501 , exf. 222 
=I\





BEST
BUY 

AND WHY 
BECAUSE IT REPRESENTS OUR EFFORT TO BRING YOU TIMELY IT-EMS OF HIGH QUALITY WORTH MORE THAN.THE ALREADY LOW PRICE . 
OUR CLASSIC CREW-NECK SWEATER IS ONLY 


$14.99 
and the monogram's on us! 
Sport your initials on this soft , washable acrylic crew -neck that nas all the textures and careful workmanship ot a more 
expensive sweater . 
.Junior sweater colors in S,M ,L: kelly or red with white or navy monogram: white or navy with red ­monoaram ~turquo1se, purple or pink with white monogram. 
Misses> sweater colors in S,M ,L: kelly, red berry, pine green, turquoise or purple with white nulJ'logram; grey or light yellow with navy monoqrstm; carnel 
with brown monogram rust with beige n.1onogram. When ordering by rr1ail or phone ~tate first, mitttile, . and last Initials. Juniors' Sweaters and Misses' Sweaters, 
.. Scottsdale Mall and University Park. · · 


~--------­
r 
_The Observer 

Bobby Knight (shown here in a photo with Isiah Thomas) repor­
tedly will be given an extention ofhis contract to 1993. See theAP 
story below. (Photo by Rachel Blount) 
LAST CHANCE . 

Senior Portrait Sign-ups 

..... Sept. 1-8 
DURING DINNER AT THE DINING HALLS 
Portraits taken Sept. 6· 14 9-S 
Off-campus 

stua.enu can sign -up there 

••·•••• •• • 
')r 
:· ................................................................... 


!t"'ighting Irish 

• 




~ Bour:o;99 

flliter 
......................................................................

• 
,• 
Friday, September 3, 1982-page 18 
htg Tent()()tball 
ByJOE MOOSHIL it all. Hoosiers also have their entire of­
Ass01:iated Press So could Ohio State even afte~: fensive line returning. 
losing Art Schlichter. The Buckeyes Purdue has an outstanding quar­
have nine regulars returning to the terback in Scott Campbell and a new 
Every other year, Illinois and · offense. Mike Tomczak will do the coach in Leon Burtnett. But an inex­Northwestern open the Big Ten quarterbacking and has outstanding perienced defensive secondary season one week ahead of the receivers in . Gary Williams and could be trouble at the start of the 
others. Usually, the game means Cedric Anderson. 
season. little. 
But when you talk passing, Illinois John Leister will be at quanerbackBut not this time around -led by 
appears to be the team in the Big for Michigan State and he'll have out­the passing magic of strong-armed 
Ten. Using Mike White's system, standing receivers in Ted Jones,Tony Eason, Illinois is being con­
I:ason has a platoon of splendid Dayl Turner and Otis Grant. Watch sidered in knowing circles as a title 
receivers, among them veterans Aaron Roberts run and linebacker contender. 
Oliver Williams and Mike Martin. Carl Banks make crashing tackles. 
Also there"s plenty of interest in 
The Illini will move the ball, but can Northwestern because of "The 
they stop opponents? Only time will Streak" which long ago established tell. 
the futility record and now has Wisconsin will have the defensive 



Knight's
reached an NCAA record of 31 suc­strength this time that helped Iowa 
cessive defeats. get to the Rose Bowl last season. 
It doesn't seem likely Northwes­Nose guard Tim Krumrie leads the 
tern will break it at Champaign this 

contract
defense and the Badgers have an out­
Saturday, nor against any Big Ten 
standing tandem in the secondary in team for that matter. 
David Greenwood and Matt Vanden 
The Big-Teno;;the whole-Will be-·· 
Boom. tough again and despite the fact There are some who are discount­


·extended 
most coaches claim the race is going ing Iowa because the Hawkeyes 
to be wide open, Michigan and Ohio return only two starters from their BLOOMINGTON, lnd (AP) ­
State remain the ranking powers. . defensive unit. Discounting Iowa Bob Knight, who guided Indiana 
Yes, Wisconsin did defeat both ,could be a mistake. The Hawkeyes University to two NCAA champion­
Michigan and Ohio State last year don't play Ohio Stale and get Michi­ships and six Big Ten Conference 
and, yes, Iowa went to the Rose gan, Illinois and Wisconsin at Kin­titles in the past decade, has been Bowl. But Ohio State did tie Iowa for nick Stadium. reappointed as the Hoosiers' basket­the title and Michigan was just a half­Minnesota, Indiana, Purdue and ball coach through 1993. game behind the co-champions in a Michan State all have experienced The reappointment must be con­

three-way tie with Illinois and Wis­and outstanding quarterbacks which firmed by the Indiana board of 
consin. means there will be more passing trustees at its regular meeting Sept. 
Michigan's Bo Schembechler, ;md wide-open football in the con­10. Knight will be offered a contract 
dean of Big Ten coaches, promises ference. after the formal approval by the 
to go into his opener with a stronger Minnesota has Mike Hohensee board, a university spokesman said. 
defense than the Wolverines had last and an added home advantage by Knight, 42, came to Indiana in 
year when they were ambushed at jplaying its games in the Metrodome 1972 and led the Hoosiers to NCAA 
Wisconsin. and at night. the Gophers will adapt tourney championships in 1976 and 
With a stronger defense, one of Ito such conditions quicker than the 1981. He also was coach of the 
the top kicking games in the country one-shot visitors. United States' gold medal team in 
and an experienced quarterback in Indiana has Babe Laufenberg at the 1979 Pan American Games and 
Steve Smith throwing to the great quarterback and talented Duane has been nominated to coach the 
Anthony Carter, Michigan could win Gunn to catch the passes. The U.S. squad in the 1984 Olympics. 
DINNER WINES 
4
99 
~:G 4 
I.. :Tff-:1 

t 1 
I ' 
I I 
l_1­

Ih~r~================================ 


~~~~~~~=============================F=r=t·d=a=y,=S=e=p=te=m=b=e=r=3='=1=98=2====pa=g=e=1=9
Doonesbury 



Simon 


Stinkhorn 

Garry Trudeau 


Campus 


Friday, Sept 3 
• -Cushwa-Leighton Ubrary Dedication, Dr. Elizabeth Kenhan, West Lawn 
•4:30 
p.m. -Carney Picnic, Stepan Center and Fields 

•6:30 
p.m. -Concert, The Toons 

•7, 
9, & II p.m. -FUm, Knute _Rockne All American, Knights ofColumbus Hall, Sponsored by Knights ofColumbus, Free 

•7, 
9:I5, & II:30 p.m. -FUm, Mr. Roberts, Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Film.Club, $1.00 

•7:30 
p.m..-Friday Night FUm Series, Alantic 


City, Annenberg Auditorium, S2.00 Saturday, Sept4 
•I 
p.m. -St. Mary's Performing Arts Series, Bands including "Uptown," "Straight Flush" and "The Tony Brown Band" Sponsored by St Mary's Quad 

•2 
p.m. .,.... Sophomore Class Picnic, Holy Cross Field 

•5:I5 
p.m. -Mass, Rev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C., Sacred Heart Church 

•7, 
9:I5, 11:30 p.m. -FUm, Mr. Roberts, Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Film Club, $1.00 

•9:30 
p.m. -Dance, Football Kickoff Dance, "Th~ Rail City Five" Band, Stepan Center, Sponsored by Student Union 




The Daily Crossword 
1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 
9/3/82

All Rights Reserved 

ACROSS 34 Equine 
1 Find fault 35 Partner of 
5 Mercenary neither 10 Tell all 36 Small fish 14 Perjurer 31 Revealed 15 Piqued 38 Affecting 1~ Actor's the hlp 
quest 40 Numerical 17 Advantage prefix 18 French 41 Nativity 
dance of group 
old 43 Number 19 Spoken for Bo 20 Revelry 44 Frustrate 22 Entertainer 45 "To ­
Carmen Mocking. 24 Sesame bird" 25 Languished 46 Curative 26 Highly 48 Thin as ­
colored 50 "Duel in 30 Is ahead the-" 
Thursday's Solution 
. Stumday,Sept.5 
•9, 
& I0:30 am. and 12:I5-Mass, Sacred Heart Curch, 

•I 
p.m. -Opening Exhibition, Snite Museum 


T.V. Tonight . 
6p.m. 
6:30p.m. 
51 Inhibit 21 Between 
7p.m.
54 Tighten ready and 58 Branches fire 59 Nonsense 23 Memento 61 Farm 25 Stole 
7:30p.m.
structure 26 E•rthenware 62 "Woe-!" pot 63 Message 27 Moslem 
8p.m.
received, beauty In radio 28 Badger's 64 Thlck kin 
9JI.m.
slice 29 French 65 Apparatus pronoun 66 Slaves 31 Rubinstein 
of old or Dvorak 
10p.m.
67 Pollster 32 Andrea-Roper 33 Garbage 36 Churchmen DOWN 38 Divide 
10:30p.m.
1 Yarnunlt 39 A Kennedy 2 Radames' 42 Instrument beloved for Bach 
3 Riches' 44 Bridge oppo~lte maneuver 
llp.m. 4 "Music Man" 46 Paris 5 Caution subways 
11:30p.m. 6 Ot historic 47 Surly 
periods fellow 
7 Service 49-nous branch: 51 Bluenose abbr. 52 Scratch 
8 -bomb out 
9 Admit 53 A Bovary 10 Enlarge 54 Graf­11 Desolate 55 Cashbox 12 "When I 56 Silent one 
was-" 57 Tramp 13 Bartokor 60 Car start· Lugosl er:abbr. 
16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 MacNeiVLehrer Report 
16 M*A*S*H 22 Family Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 16 One ofthe Boys 22 Dukes ofHazzard 28 Benson 34 Washington Week in Review 16 Chicago Story 28 Making a Uving 34 Wall Street Week 22 Dallas 
28 Greatest American Hero 34 Crisis to Crisis with Barbarajordan 16 Cassie and Company 22 Falcon Crest 28 Strike Force 34 Hard Choices 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 The Dick Cavett Show 16 Tonight Show 22 U.S. Open''tennis 28 ABC News Nightline 34 Captioned ABC News 22 CBS Late Movie 28 Saturday Night with Buck Henry 16 SCTV Comedy Network 


startthe weekend oitright!!!!!, 

Friday 
CheckOut· Sept.a_, 
~7:-00PM 
S. Quad· 
~ 
._,. 

Friday, September 3, 1982 -page 20 


---M---·--~-----·-----··-------------------------------------------­
Footballcampwars 
Coach Faust releases depth charts 
By CHRIS NEEDLES from past experience both should impressed in scrimmages and Blue­Sports Editor see a lot ofaction. Both have shown Gold games past. But, while Faust exceptional running talent the last marvels at his lateral movement, he 
With just two weeks remaining two years, but neither has proven to feels Caner's "'"!0r weakness is a_ before the season opener against be durable enough to last an entire play run right at him. Plus, M..use• Michigan, Coach Gerry Faust this se:ason without injury. Watch for has lost eight pounds since last week released a depth chart (see frt:shman Allen Pinkett, who is said season, putting him at a very un­this page) showing just where his to be the fastest player in camp. lineman-like 227. players stand as the long-awaited •Fullback. Larry Moriarity vs. •Right defensive tackle. Three of September 18 night game ap­John Sweeney, again, with Mark the best defensive players on the proaches. Brooks a close third. But Faust has team, Tim Marshall, Jon Autry and 
Of course, these are not final and abandoned the shuttle system of Pat Kramer, are battling it out here. positions can very well change in se:nding in plays with his fullbacks -Kramer was slowed somewhat by the next two weeks. And, examining "I want my best talent on the field at sitting out a year, but all three the chart, one can find all sorts of all times," he said Monday -so look should see some action. interesting battles taking place for for a lot more consistency at this •Strong safety. Faust continually 
several wide-open starting slots. position, whomever gets the nod to marvels at the feats of hard-hitting 
Here are some of the more hard­begin the season. sophomore Joe Johnson, who just fought wars going on in the Notre •Flanker. Sophomore sensation may displace senior Rod Bone from Dame football camp: Joe Howard is pretty solid here, but the starting job he acquired last year. 
•Offensive 
right tackle. Senior he does have some very able back­Whoever loses out here will no John Putzstuck had been ticketed ups. Freshman Milt Jackson has doubt be used often as the fifth back for the starting job, but sophomore impressed everyone, although F_aust in the nickle defense. Larry Williams has had an excellent made reference to his inexperience •Placekicker. Freshman Hal Von set of fall practices and is the talk of at Monday's Skywriters press con­Wyl has lived up to his advance bil­the camp. Williams, from Santa Ana, ference. And, of course, freshman ling. Von Wyl, who has incredibly Calif, is built like a rock. At 6-6 and red-shirt Van Pearcy, despite last large thighs for a placekicker, has 258 pounds, Williams has put on 20 year's knee surgery, can still outrun impressed with his long, high kick­extra pounds of solid muscle since a cheetah. offs, but has faltered somewhat in his last year. •Left defensive end. Sophomore placements. Look for Mike Johnston 

•Offensive 
left tackle. Now that Mike Golic has vaulted ahead ofboth to do the shorter placements, with 


Mike Shiner is gone until probably Kevin Griffith and Mansel Carter, Von Wyl handling the 50-yarders the Miami (Fla.) game with a knee and is one ofsix (count 'em) sopho­and kickoffs. injury, this spot is up for grabs. It mores slated to start at this stage of So there you have it. It has been a looks like junior Barry Young, a con­the game. Mansel is one of the great very competitive camp, so don't be 
verted center, will get the nod, al­mysteries of our time. At 6-8, he is surprised if this chart changes an) though 6-7 Greg Golic (Bob and quite an imposing sight, and has between now and the 18th. Mike's brother) will press him. 
•Tailback. The same old story of Phil Carter vs. Greg Bell. Tri-captain Carter should be the starter, but 
NOTRE DAME OFFENSE 
NOTRE DAME DEFENSE POS NO PLAYER HT WT CL 
LE 55 Mike Golic 6-5 243 So. SE 83 Mike Favorite 6-4 190 Jr. 
56 Kevin Griffith 6-3 242 Sr. 18BumperSch1ro 6-0 183Jr. 
99 Mansel Carter 6-8 227 Jr.

.... 
1 Chris Stone 6-1 186 Sr 
L T 78 Mike Gann 6-5 249 So. ILT 74 Mike Shiner 6-8 262 Jr. 
94 Jerry Weinle 6-3 238 Jr. 68 Barry Young 6-5 246 Jr 92 Greg Dingens 6-5 230 Fr. 
65 Greg Golic 6-7 246 Jr RT n Tim Marshall 6-4 255 Jr. 
ILE 76 Randy Ellis 6-4 246 Sr. 38 Jon Autry 6-2 235 Jr. 63 Mike Kelley 6-5 261 So .97 Pat Kramer 6-4 252 Sr. 61 Mark LeBlanc 6-2 242 Sr RE 91 Bob Clasby 6-5 259 Sr. 
C 57 Mark Fischer 6-4 253 Sr. 81 Jay Underwood 6-5 252 So. 

_Milwaukee, Cleveland split 
pitchers held Texas to six hits. 
g.reeted reliever Danny Darwin with 
53 Tom Doerger 6-5 257 Fr. 71 Eric Dorsey 6-5 225 Fr.

Brewers over Indians 
67 Tony Piccin 6-3 247 So. LLB 37 Rick Naylor 6-3 225 Jr.
a ground-rule double down the 
Lamar Johnson homered off 
51 Joe Rudzinski 6-3 224 Sr.

MILWAUKEE (AP) Moose right-field line. 
Chicago starter Britt Burns after a 
87 Joe Bars 6-5 225 So.

Haas, Dwight Bernard, Rollie Fingers Harold Baines' two-out, ninth­
walk to Dave Hostetler with one out 
RLB 42 Mike Larkin 6-1 209 So.
IFtG 64 Tom Thayer 6-5 268 Sr.

and Pete Ladd combined to scatter · inning homer off Comer sent the 
32 Chns M. Smith 6-2 228 So.
in the sixth to give Texas a 5-3 lead. 
79 Neil Maune 6-5 258 Jr. 
47 Tom Murphy 6-2 217 Jr.

five hits, leading the Milwaukee game into extra innings. The homer 
71 Mike Walsh 6-5 256 Jr. 
MLB 46 Mark Zavagnin 6-2 228 Sr. 49 Jack Shields 6-3 218 Sr. 

Brewers to a 2-1 victory over the was the 20th ofthe year for Baines. But with two out in seventh, Greg 
In 75 Larry Williams 6-6 258 So. 
52 John Putzstuck 6-5 260 Sr. 
69 Mike Purrino 6-5 265 Fr. 

Cleveland Indians in the first game Reliever Jim Kern, 1-0, the third Luzinski singled, Steve Kemp singled 
58 Tony Furjanic 6-2 225 Fr.

of a doubleheader last night. 
Chicago pitcher, pitched the final 2 him to third and Comer wild pitched 
FS 23 Dave Duerson 6-3 202 Sr.
·rE 75 Tony Hunter 6-5 226 Sr.

Cleveland salvage a split by win­
34 Daane Spiel­ning the nightcap, 4-2, on catcher 
2-3 innings for the win as Chicago to cut the lead to 5-4. 
82 Mark Bavaro 6-4 242 So. 
maker 6-1 194 Jr.
86 WallyKiine 6-8 240 Fr. 
17 RayCarter 5-10 185 Fr.

Von Hayes' three-run homer off 
QB 5 Blair Klel 6-1 199 Jr. 
12 Ken Karcher 6-2 204 So. SS 27 Joe Johnson 6-2 185 So. 6 Jim o·Hara 6-1 188 Fr. 

newly-acquired Don Sutton in the 
26 Rod Bone 6-2 196 Sr.

top ofthe ninth inning. 
16 Dan Corsaro 5-11 185 Fr. SCB 30 Stacey Toran 6-4 197 Jr. 40 Pat Ballage 6-2 185 Fr. 

Philadelphia ~ffers Moses 
FB 39 Larry Moriarty 6-2 223 Sr.
Tigers rip Angels 
19 Justin Driscoll 6-1 190 Sr.
33 John Sweeney 6-2 217 Sr. 
WCB 9 Chris Brown 6-1 196 Jr.
35 Mark Brooks 6-3 228 So.
Lance Parrish

DETROIT (AP) -$13.2million dollars 
48 John Mosley 6-1 190 Jr.
·rB 22 Phil Carter 5-10 197 Sr.

belted two solo homers and Aurelio 
41 Dave McGuffey 5-10 172 Fr.
28 Greg Bell 6-0 204 Jr. 
K 4 Mike Johnston 5-11 184 Sr.

Lopez returned to the major leagues wardJulius ~rving, the NBA's MVP in 
20 Allen Pinkett 5-9 175 Fr.
PHILADELPHIA (AP) -Moses 
15 Hal Von Wyl 6-2 200 Fr.
IFL 24 Joe Howard 5-9 167 So.

with six innings of one-hit relief as 1980-81, but predicted there would
Malone, the two-time most valuable 
P 5 Blair Klel 6-1 199 · Jr--:­80 Milt Jackson 6-0 170 Fr.

the Detroit Tigers beat the Califor­player in the National Basketball As­be no conflict between the two 
3 Mike Viracola 5-11 181 Jr.
84 Van Pearcy 6-2 186 Fr.

nia Angels 6-3 last night. sociation, signed an offer sheet for a stars. 
Lopez, 2-1, came in to start the reported S13.2 million for six years "He (Malone) has the ability to 
fourth inning and allowed only a with the Philadelphia 76ers yester­make everybody on our team a bet­
one-out single to Rob Wilfong in the ter basketball player," Cunningham
day. ninth. Malone's agent, Lee Fentress, said. 
jNf_~ exhibitions ef!~ing,

Parrish's solo homers came in the refused to disclose the terms of the The 6-foot-10 center became a fifth and eighth innings. 76ers' offer. free agent this year after six seasons With the score tied 3-3, Lou But earlier yesterday, radio sta· with the Rockets, who could still 
~~uarterbacks starring

Whitaker led off the fifth with a tion WSSV in Malone's home town of match the 76ers' offer and block the 
triple and Doug Corbett relieved deal. Sixers owner Harold Katz said .
Petersburg, Va, reported the 76ers UyBRUCELOWITT injured Dave Wilson, like Simms out 
Houston must do that within 15 days 

California staner Mike Witt, 8-5. had offered Malone a S13.2 million Associated Press for the season with a damaged knee. 
Glenn Wilson hit Corbett's first contract over the next six years. The ofreceiving a copy ofthe offer sheet. It's Stabler, signed less than two pitch into short center for an RBI station said it was told by Malone Katz was confident the offer Scott Brunner, a new No.1, and weeks ago to backup Archie Man­
single, extending his hitting streak that the 76ers' contract would pay would stand Ken Stabler, emerging as a No. 2, will ning. 
to 19 games. Wilson was thrown out "To match this offer in Houston
him about S2.2 million a year. get more time in the huddle and be­Brunner, who has been erratic in attempting to steal second. Lance "Moses brings a g.reat strength to would be a tough business deal," hind the center tonight as the Na­his exhibition appearances this year, Parrish t1.en homered to make it 5-3. us offensively," 76ers Coach Billy Katz said. tional Football League begins its faces the host Miami Dolphins, who His 26th homer in the eighth com­Cunningham said at a press con­Rockets General Manager Ray Pat­
final weekend ofexhibitions. are going through their own 
terson said in a telephone interview

pleted the scoring. ference to announce the signing. Brunner became the New York struggle to decide on a No. 1 quar­Last season, Malone won that he would study the Philadelphia David or
his Giants' staning quanerback by terback, Woodley Don 
second MVP award. He played in 81 offer before before deciding on his
Chicago over Texas default last Saturday night when, ear­Strock. games with the Houston Rockets next move. 
ly in their 22-10 victory over the Stabler, who was exceptional in CHICAGO (AP) -Back-to-back, and averaged 31.1 points and better The Rockets offered Malone a New York Jets, Phil Simms went his first appearance for the Saints two-out than 14 rebounds per game. In the contract reported at n.7 million 
down with a knee injury which (two late touchdowns against and Vance Law in the lOth inning playoffs, he averaged 24.2 points per per year shortly before he became a finished him for the season. With un­Cleveland) is likely to get in some gave the Chicago White Sox a 6-5 game and more than 16 rebounds. free agent. h:sted second-year man Mark Reed time against the Vikings in Min­
w.n over the Texas last important," Cunningham Malone left for The Netherlands
Rangers "Most the only other quarterback on the nesota night. said, "he has improved every year he yesterday on a promotional tour roster, the Giants are still shopping In three other games tonight, it's 
After loser· Steve Comer, 1-5, has been a professional." .with several NBA players, but around for a new No. 2. ' Washington at Cincinnati, Atlanta at retired the first two Chicago batters, Cunningham said he would rank The New Orleans Saints apparent­Squires doubled to center and Law Malone with the calibre of76ers for-See MOSES, page 16 ly have their new No. 2 to replace See QUARTERBACKS, page 16 









