
Devine -page 8 
I I I 


VOL. XVI, NO. 75 an mdependem srudem newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's FRIDAY, JANUARY 1 S, 1982 
~ ' 'I "h• ~ •,.-! 1 -' 
Searchfor air disaster v1ct1m.s cont1nues 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Divers of the passengers: "the helicopter plunged into the frozen Potomac pilot tells of him. He was one of the yesterday, searching for 70 bodies in group that was clinging to the a crumpled Air Florida jetliner wreckage out there in the icy which investigators suspect was waters. Time after time, the line heavy with ice when it fell upon a from the helicoprer would be bridge loaded with rush-hour lowered. The life ring came to him motorists. and each time he picked out 
The crumpled fuselage of the someone else and worked to get the Boeing 737 lay a mere 20 feet from ring around them." the river bank and 2S feet from the The president added, "Four surface, but it proved tragically dif­people arc alive today because he ficult to bring up. did this. We don't know who he is 
Investgators focused on how because he gave his life in doing that. ready the plane was to take off in He sank beneath the waves before it subfreezing weather Wednesday -could come back for him ... Greater how long it stood on the runway, glory hath no man." whether it was properly deiced and At the crash site, 20 feet from the what caused it to slam into the 14th Virginia bank ofthe river and a mere Street Bridge within seconds of lift­three-quarters of a mile from the off Wednesday from National Air­runway at National Airport, four port. divers leaped from a barge into the 
Chief investigator Francis river to observe the condition ofthe McAdams said it could take three plane's hulk and make sketches
continue tonight at 7 PM at Washington Hall. 
days to as long as two weeks to raise which will help determine how the
(photo by Rachel Blount) 
the l 00,000-pound fuselage, but ofi­fuselage can be raised and to look for cials said they hoped swiftly to find the recorders. two on-board recorders that might The river is about 20 feet deep at provide clues to the cause of the the point where it went down. Amid

King birthday 
crash. ice chunks, recovery crews in The frozen bodies ofan infant and orange life vests constructed a pon­a woman were pulled by boat crews toon platform into the river.


Students support nationwide holiday 
from the river, bringing to nine the A cage bearing two men were numberofbodies in the morgue. Air lowered by a crane co the water's ByGREGORYS~RCZ urging for King's holiday was precedes the Black Cultural Arts Fes­Florida said its Boeing 737 carried surface and helicopters flew so low Features Editor presented in Congress thirteen tival, slated to begin the first Tues­79 people, leaving 70 still to be they almost touched the water. 

years ago. Since that time, various day in february, designated as pulled from the river. Four passen­Snow started falling in mid­
National Black History Month. The
Pt·titions supporting a nationwide states have proclaimed the day a gers and a stewardess were the only afternoon. 
state holiday, but the fight for na­festival plans two films: Martin Lut­appt·al to adopt Martin Luther King, known survivors. National Airport reopened in the

her King: fbe Man and the Martyr,

Jr.'s birthday as a national public tional recognition continues. 
Two men in cars on the bridge morning, and airliners soared over holiday are being present~d in the The signed petitions will be sent and I have a Dream. 
were killed and three other com­the scene. Planes taking off must
King was born jan. 15, 1929 in At­

dining halls today, according to In· to the agency rsponsiblc for seeking muters were seriously injured in the make a sharp left turn and follow the tcrracial Concerns Committee Com· passage of the bills now pending in lanta, Georgia. Son of a preacher, first fatal American airline accident winding river's path to limit the
Martin followed the family tradition,

missioner Darlene Sowdl. Congress that call for making since Oct. 31, 1979 when a Western noise in downtown Washington. For
graduating from Morehouse Univer­
This drive coincides with a march january 15 a national holiday. 
airlines plane crashed in Mexico security reasons, planes are not per­
sity in 1948 and receiving a Ph.D. in 

in Washington today led by enter­"The birthday of Martin Luther City. mitted to fly over the White House
systematic theology from Boston

tainer Stevie Wonder. King, Jr. should be recognized as a President Reagan circled the and the Capitol.
Sowell, Black Cultural Arts Presi­national holiday, for King fought for University in 1955. Involved in the crash site yesterday in a helicopter, Among yesterday's departuresdent Harry! Ammons and Secretary such issues as poverty and social in­civil rights movement, he led then flew by plane to New York City was Air Florida's Flight 90, which Piper Griffin felt the drive fur the justices," stated Griffin. nationwide marches preaching non­where he told an audience of busi­once again took off in a snowstorm,holiday is long overdue. The first bill The King holiday question violence and peace. On April 4, ness leaders that modern-day bound for Tampa. This time it 


New campusphone 
exchange breaks down 
ByJOE MUSUMECI 
Asked about the cause of the failure, Mr. Corley said that the fault was within the circuit board 
The newly installed "2:W" ex­
NewsJtaff 
itself, and not inherent in the change of the campus tdephone entire system. About the cicuit system went dead around 8:4S 
board he said, "If thcy'c going to 
p.m. last night. Indiana Bell su­break down, they do it early. This 
pervisor jay Corley said that he one must have been borderline; received a call to repair tht: sys­
it woked fine when we put in, up tem at about 9:30 p.m. 
until now." The addition of the new cx­
Corley said that the fault was changt· leaves only residence 
not a common one, and that the phones on the "283" exchange 
chances of such a failure occur­and necessitates that many on­
ring again were very slight. He campus calls be made as if they 
said that several similar systems were going off campus. Tht: new 
had been installed around the system has confused many stu­
area, and were in fact much less dents upon their return from 
troublesome than the system which Notre Dame had previous­
break The breakdown was caused by ly used. The supervisor said that repair of the problem is a simple
a burnt-out circuit pack in one of matter involving merely the re­
the l S software cabinets installed to implement the new system. 
placement of the circuit board at fault. When Corley was con­Located in the basement of Memorial Library, the cabinets 
tacted, another supervisor was at were installed alongside the 
the supply center near Niles pick­open racks ofsoftware for the old 
ing up a new circuit board, and 
was Coley said the phones would be not.affected by the failuc. 
system. The "283" system working again by today. 
1968, King was assassinated by 
heroism still exists.
.James Earl Ray in Memphis, Tennes­
See DISASTER, page 4
He described the bravery of one 
see. 
1Ski Mask Rapist' 




Three -yearterrorspree ends 

By BILL CRIDER robbery, burglary and auto theft. was not convinced Simonis was the AssociatedPress Simonis began his prison terms man who attacked her. Sunday. "Everything Simonis knew could Simonis was arrested Nov. 27 in have come from newspapers, 
NEW ORLEANS-The man called Lake Chrles, his home town. Officers anybody who attended the trial or the Ski Mask Rapist, who says his had been told that a car like Simonis' anyone who investigated the case," three-year terror spree included 81 was seen near the scene ofone ofthe she said. crimes in I 2 states, is now in per­"ski mask rapist" attacks. Simonis However, Clarence Von Williams, manent residence at Angola Prison serving SO years on the rape convic­-facing 21 life sentences plus 
tion, was released on Dec. 5 ata spe­2,681 years in jail. FRIDAY cial court session in Orange, Tt·-· 
During each of six court ap­on a motion filed by both the pearances since early December, 
defense and prosecution. jon Barry Simonis said he was sorry "Simonis knew too many details
FOCUS 

about everything, but couldn't help not to have committed the rape," himself. said Orange County District Attor­
"I am guilty of these crimes. I was placed under surveillance and neyJim jenkins. knew extremely well what I was was taken into custody as he left a In Athens County, Ohio, a 22­doing beforehand, while I was doing store near his home. year-old man apparently will be it, and I know now," Simonis told It was then that he told inves­cleared of a rape and robbery con­Districtjudge Charles Becnel during tigators about 81 armed robberies viction because the victim identified 
a Dec. l 0 hearing in Donaldsonville. or burglaries in 30 cities in 12 states Simonis as her assailant, prosecutor Simonis, who turns 31 Friday, said -many of them involving rape or Michael Ward said earlier this week. he would wear a ski mask during other sexual crimes. Two other rape-robbery convic­break-ins and often rape woman Other men had been convicted in tions continue in nearby Fairfield residents who happened to be two of the crimes described by County against Braley C. Cox ofLan­home. Simonis. caster, Ohio, but Simonis also has 
He received his 21 life sentences In Texas, cne man was quickly confessed to them. on rape convictions, the extra years freed but there was some confusion, for other crimes including armed because the rape victim insisted she See RAPIST, page 4 

News Brie :s 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
A Michigan State University student says he 
will file discrimination charges against a fraternity which allegedly suspended him for being homosexual. The 20-year-old member of Delta Sigma Phi, who asked not to be identified, said he will take his case before MSU's Anti-Discrimination Judicial Board. University regulations against sex discrimination probably would apply to the case, said Sallie Bright, the board's executive secretary. Scott Pauley, president ofthe fraternity, said only that the member was suspended Sunday night because his lifestyle was incompatible with the rest of the fraternity. -AP 
The Bijou Theater, where Tallulah Bankhead made her Broadway debut and Helen Hayes scored a notable triumph, fell under a bulldozer yesterday in New York while sign-carrying protes­ters stood in the snow watching. The 65-year-old theater at 45th Street West of Broadway is being demolished to make room for a new hotel. Flanking the Bijou are the Helen Hayes and Morosco theaters, which the builders also want to raze. A court order has delayed demolition ofthose theaters pending a hearing jan. 21. Miss Bankhead made her debut at the Bijou in 1919 in "The Squab Farm," and Miss Hayes starred there in "What Every Woman Knows" in 1926. -AP 
An Omaha Nebraska televisi ton station and local police have teamed up to re-enact unsolved crimes on the air for a Crimestoppers program. The reinactments will be broadcast on sta­tion KETV beginning in March in hopes that pollee will get anonymous tips leading to arrests and convictions, officials say. Ray Depa, KETV news director, said tips that lead to convictions will be rewarded from private contributions. The shows will feature Univer­sity of Nebraska at Omaha drama students. Similar Crimestoppers programs exist in more than I 00 U.S. cities, Depa said. -AP 
The Mardi Gras Committeefinalized incentive 
plans for the marathon dancers at this year's Mardi Gras. First and second prizes ofa 19-inch color television and a studio sound system will be awarded for those who sell the most raffle tickets. The com­mittee urges dancers to sell their tickets. The committee decided on a format for the Feb. 5-7 carnival and for "The Best ofthe Mardi Gras" talent shows. Acar stereo will be raffled offSaturday. Today is the last day for depositing tickets for the raffle. Those who are still interested in participating in the dance contest should contact their hall representatives. -The Observer 
Gerhart Niemeyer, professor emeritus of govern­ment and international studies at the University of Notre Dame, has been appointed to the Board of Foreign Scholarships by President Reagan. The Board is under the Department of State's Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. Established by the Fullbright Act of 1961, the board oversees the department's worldwide academic ex­changes of graduate students, teachers and senior university scholars. Niemeyer emigrated from Germany in 1933, became a U.S. citizen in 1943, worked as a foreign affairs officer in the Department of State from 1950 to 1953 and joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1955. A political theorist, he served as visiting professor at Yale, Columbia, and Vanderbilt Universities as well as at Hillsdale College 
(Michigan). -The Observer 
Dr. David Norbum, a professor at the London Busi­ness School and an expert in Brtish business policy, has been named the first occupant ofthe Franklin D. Schurz Chair in Management at the University of Notre Dame. The endowed professorship in the College of Business Administration honors the veteran South Bend editor, publisher and civic leader. Norburn, who directs the London Business School's Continuing Executive Programme, will start his three-year appointment next fall. -The Observer 
Friday,January 15, 1982-page 2 

14th Street Bridge following the disaster. Rescue efforts 

·A Coast Guard rescue boat searches the crash 
were hampered by a heavy snowfall and major traffic 
jam. (AP Photo) 


The_Ohs.erxer 
Design Editor...................... Maura Murphy Design Asslstants........................Jim Keyes Tim Farrell Typesetters....................................... AI Novas Stephen Brown News Editor................... David Rickabaugh Copy Editors ............................... Rich Adam Paula Grovt=s, Paul McGinn Features Layout..............'Gregory Swiercz Sports Copy Editor.............Skip Desjardin Typist......................................)eaninc Hynes Systems Control ................... Bruce Oakley ND Day Editor ................Tom Maclennan Ad Deslgn.................................John & Mary Pbotograpbff....................... Rachel Blount Guest Appearances............The Reformed 

scene in the Potomac River. Removal of the wreckage from the icy waters began yesterday morning. (APPhoto) 
AP 




Photo 

File 


*********************************: 
~ Attt?lltl()ll Sl<lt?l§!! :: ~ SAIIJI<UA" ~I{Jill SWISS V4lll~~ 
~ *~  SI\II~{J SIAI<IS Jc111.1tJ~ 1CJS1 Bus departs main circle 5 pm  ~ *  
~  Returns 11pm  ;  
~  presale bus tix: $2.50  ~  
~  At circle: $3  ~  
~Plus:  reduced :  ~  
~  lift tickets.....$5  ~­ 
Editorial Board Editor-in-Chief..............................john McGrath  



Founded November 3, 1966 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report­ed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, thtolJ&h letters, i~; encouraged. 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Executive News Editor... .... Kelli Flint Sports Editor .............................. Skip Desjardin 
Neu•s Editor............................. David Rickabaugh Pj:JOto Editor........... ...........john Macor SMC Executi11e Editor............'VIary Agnes Care} Editorials Editor.......................Anthony Walton SMC News Editor......................Cathv Domanico Features Editor .........................Gregory Swiercz 
Department Managers 
Business Manager .........................Rich Coppola Production Manager...................Michael Monk 
Controller.............................................joe Mulflur Circulation Manager .............Tom MacLennan 
•''"ertising Manager.......................Chris Owen Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley 

The Observer 
Investigation begins on 
D.C. subway wreck 
WASIIINGTON (AP) -Crews 
usin~ blowtorches and a crane dis­
mantled the wreckage of a subway 
train yc:sterday while: three different 
invc:stigations began trying to find 
out what caused the rush-hour crash 
that killed thrc:e people and injured 
at lcast 25 ohers. 
Traffic wa..o; limitc:d on the subway 
systc:m bc:tween the capital and its 
suburbs a..o; four downtown stations 
remained closed so the train could 
be removed. 
The National Transportation Safety Board, a panel of experts picked by Metro, and the Washing­ton Metropolitan Area Transit Authority were investigating the accident, the first fatal wreck in Metro's five-year history. 
The deaths and Injuries occurred as the derailed train backed up and the last ofits six cars slammed into a concrete abutment in the tunnel. As many as 1,500 riders may have been aboard. 
The subway crash happene<! 26 
minutes after 76 people were killed 
about one and one-half miles away 
when an Air Florida jetliner crashed 
Into the 14th Street Bridge as It took 
off from National Airport. 
The subway was packed because 
government workers left early to 
avoid the snow and because a stalled 
train meant that only a single rail 
could be used for both directions 
between some ofstations. 
As the train, bound for Maryland, 
appr~ached the Smithsonian station on the Mall from the north, its operator found he was still being switched to the opposite rail. 
He called central control, which monitors the trains, and his train was ordered to back up before the cross­over, according to joe Sheard, in charge ofthe rail operations. manual switching of the trains because automatic systems were out of or­der, hopped onto the last car and took control to back the train, offi­cials said. 
But at the far end, the last set of wheels had already pa..o;sed beyond the switches on the opposite track. It was kept on the wrong track by an incorrect switch, officials said. Thus, when the train moved, the last car was gradually turned sideways, spanning two sets of rails, and was crushed around a concrete pillar holding up the tunnel. 
"There was enormous force be­cause you had all the rest ofthe train pulling it forward," said Cody Pfanstiehl, Metro peeled off and the floor buckled and tore. 
Metro officials were unable to say yesterday why the switches were in the wrong position and why the automatic controls for operator in the crushed car could have done anything to prevent the disaster. 
Patricia Goldman, head of the NTSB investigation, said her agency wanted answers to a number of questions. to resume normal service and reopen the downtown stations by today's rush hour. 

V.P. of student affairs rejects keg proposal 
By VIC SCIULLI 
StuffReporter 
Despite a strong concerted effort 
by the: Student Government and hall 
rectors, Fr. Van Wolvlear, Vice Presi­
dent of Student Affairs, vetoed the 
Campus Life Council's proposal to 
allow kegs in hall party rooms. 
Fr. Van Wolvlcar lnade the deci­
sion despite the fact that the 
proposal wa..o; pa..o;scd by the Hall 
Presidents Council, the Student 
Senate, and the Campus Life Coun­
cil. The proposal submitted to Van Wolvlear included a number of amendments suggested by hall rec­
tors regarding control over kegs in party rooms. In a letter to Don Mur­Jay, Student Body Presidt·nt and Chairman of the CLC, Van Wolvlear cited four reasons which formed the basis ti:>r his decision. 
-I. This office has not been in­
formed ofany alcoholiic abuse in the 
party rooms. Abuse would call for 
some policy change. 
-2. The resolutiion offers no 
control of the number of kegs com­
Ing on campus. Our gate security 
personnel have no way of knowng 
which kegs arc authorized and 
which arc not. We would lose com­
plete control over the number of 
kegs coming on campus. Our 
present policy ofno kegs allowe gives us complete control. 
-3. Our alcohol counselors agree with the findings of the publication "Campus Reports" that the national trend is to prohibit the use ofkegs on campus. 
-4. We (the University) have a stronger legal position by the en­forcement of some restrictions regarding the usc of alcohol on campus. 
Van Wolvlear also stated that 
residence hall rectors will make 
their party room guidelines more 
restrictive in regards to the usc ofal­
cohol. A statement prohibiting the 
serving of beer from a common 
source may appear in the next du 
Lac. 
The CLC has decided not to ap­peal to t Provost O'Meara or to Fr. Hesburgh. Despite the veto, CLC members arc pleased about things that came out of the proposal. "For the first time, there was an organized backing between rectors and stu­dents," said CLC secretary Paul Cal­lahan. "A lot of rectors supported the Student Government on the issue. That is important." 
"Rectors sec the advantages to the proposal. The Administration doesn't." 
Callahan stressed that kegs are not an issue, but rather that the social life on campus is improved. The Ad­ministration, he feels, has isolated it­self from the student body. He is concerned that other creative proposals will be turned downed and that the Administration will not cooperate. Finding out why a gap ex­ists between Student Government and the Administration and then bridging that gap is essen~ tiai,Callahan said. "The issue of kegs is dead until Student Government and hall rectors and the Administra­tion can bridge that gap," he con­cluded. 


Friday,January 15, 1982-page 3 

This is the interior ofa Washington subway car which crashed Wednesday after it backed into a tunnel abutment, shown at left. Three people were ktlled and at least 23 were injured when the rush­hour train derailed and bit the concrete. (AP Photo) 
Sony Tnpe nnd Sunshine Promotions Present nn evening with .... 
ROD STEWART 
Le Grande Tour America and Canada 1981/1982 
WORTH LEAVING HOME FOR!!!! . 


The Observer Friday,january 15, 1982-page 4 



Morrissey senior Mike Pirkowski fought the early Bookstore crowds on Thursday to purchase materials for his classes. (photo by Rachel Blount) 
····c~~pQ·t~~ ~t~~Y ·~·JA~~~·~·····~~t~r ··1 

~ea/u1 how to ta~e catte Ob ~oult g~L11. 

Receive your complimentary 
u\Aany ffiay ..weQcmM bac/Q" 6acLaQ 
• this Saturday, Jon.l~ in the Alumni Rm .. ~f th2. Morrjs lng between 9 am and 6 pm~
. :
. 

:For additional information call 277-4793 ..
. 

:•...........••••••• 10% dt!H~Oullt wttlt thLg ad...................: 

Your budding careercan 
blOSSODlaS 
anAirR>rce 
nurse 

As a Registered Nurse graduated from an NLN accredited school, you can enter an exciting nursing career with benefits that include 30 days paid vacation a year. Medical and dental care provided. Professional challenges and per­sonal satisfaction will bring your nursing career into full bloom as an Air Force Nurse. 

t  Chinese & American Kestaurant  
t  & Cocktail lounge Banquet rooms auailable Banquet & group rates auailable  
t!  THE WHOLE TOWN IS TALKING... About our Fantastic Cuisine and our  
t  Great C~!~=:~:A$i'!~ln Buffet  

Now For Your Pleasure We Feature t The Following Choice of Combination Plates t Chicken Chow Mein 
Beef Chop Suey
l$395 

l 
f Roast Pork Egg Foo Young Sweet & Sour Pork or Chicken Beef with Broccoli , all include ~gg roll, fried rice, soup, and a 
'Newspirit rising ' 

Reagan urges voluntaryefforts 
NEW YORK (AP) -President 
Reagan told a group of New York 
businessmen and civic leaders today 
that "there is a new spirit of in­
dividual initiative rising in our land" 
to supplant the failed efforts of big 
government. 
Reagan flew from Washington to 
meet the new secretary general of 
the United Nations and to address 
the New York City Partnership, 
which serves as a model for his cam­paign to encourage voluntary efforts to solve social problems. 
In a speech prepared for a lunch­eon of the 2-year-old association at ttie Waldorf Astoria Hotel, Reagan told the group, "You are that tough little tug that can pull our ship of state offthe shoals and out into open water." 
The partnership, headed by David 
Rockefeller, is dedicated to improv­
ing economic and social conditions 
in the city by coordinating private 
and public programs and has task 
forces concentrating on public 
safety and youth employment. 
continuedfrom page 1 
In addition, queries about Simonis have been received from law en­forcement officials in California, Florida, Georgia, Indiana, Michigan, Mississippi, North Carolina, Ok­lahoma and Wisconsin, state police in Louisiana say. 
The string of prison terms imposed by Louisiana courts was the full extent of what the law could do to Simonis in that state. Only first-degree murder carries the death penalty. 
"He would be a candidate for frying, I guarantee it, but unfor­tunately under our law, which was changed by the U.S. Supreme Court, the death penalty no longer applies on these crimes, Jefferson Davis Parish District Attorney Gregg Ar­nette, said after Simonis' 21st life sentence was announced. 
In Louisiana, a life sentence with­out parole really does mean life. On­ly agovernor's pardon can cancel it. 
Authorities here say Simonis' stiff sentences in Louisiana make it unlikely that <;>ther states will seek to try him. 
"We think Jon Simonis is going to 
spend  the  rest  of  his  days  in  
Louisiana,"  said  state  police  Lt.  
RonnieJones.  

Simonis, who worked as an atten­dant in a cardiology unit at a Lake Charles hospital, was first arrested in Jan. 1978, for making obscene phone calls to women. He was con­victed but received a suspended sentence after agreeing to receive psychiatric help. 

r~-~-------~------r--sPeciJ--1 
I ' GREAT WALL I HOMEOFTHE I 
1 BLOCKBUSTER ! 
,

~1/2 p0 Und haffl bUf ge1 Iwith fries, lettuce t I & tomato t 
~_______________$24 s jt 
HOURS: t 
Mon.·Thurs.· 1 ~:30a.m.· 1 ~~00p.m. ' 
Fri. &Sat.11.30 a.m.·11.00 p.m. ' S'l'n.&Holldays11:30a.m.-s:oop.m., 
~T I 
i -· t 1-f 
::1 t
272-7376 t 

' non-alcoholic beverage (coffee, tea or DOD) ' 
~-------------....:.-.:-----------" 
One of Reagan's pet projects has been formation of what he calls his Private Initiative Task Force, a group of about 40 corporate executives and civic leaders assigned to iden­tify, reward and foster voluntary, 
((You are that tough little tug that can pull ourship ofstate offthe shoals and out into open water., 
self-help projects in communities 
across the country. 
He called for "a rennaissance of the American community, a rebirth of neighborhood. This is the heart 
and soul ofrebuilding America." 
Using new rhetoric, Reagan reiterated his claim that the present recession is a result of the failed policies ofthe past. "Our administra­tion is a cleanup crew for those who went on a nonstop binge and left the tab for us to pick up." 
He predicted the incentives provided by his economic program and the will of the American people are the driving forces behind recovery, and he appealed for volun­teers to help solve the problems of poverty and need that he said government has failed to cure. 
It has been a fundamental tenet of R~agan's political philosophy that government should stop trying to solve the array of social problems it has tackled since the New Deal and that those closest to community problems are better equipped to implement solutions efficiently and effectively. 
Reagan planned to meet newly elected U.N. Secretary-General Javier Perez De Cuellar. The private, mid-afternoon meeting in the presi­dent's hotel suite was billed as a short "get acquainted session" with no formal agenda. 
...Rapist 
The "ski mask" crimes occurred after that arrest. 
Harvey Honsiger, his former probation officer, said Simonis "impressed me as the Boy Scout type. He was neat, clean, punctual, didn't change his residence. He was well thought of at work and he was open to me in discussing his problems." 
Simonis underwent a required three-day series ofmental and physi­cal tests at the Hunt Correctional In­stitution in St. Gabriel before being transferred to Angola. 
"He is considered an escape risk," said Eadie Day, a spokeswoman forthe state Department of Correc­tions. He will spend an indefinite period in extended lockdown, remaining in a one-man tier above 
Death Row instead of being placed within the general prison popula­tion. 
Simonis has said that he plans to spend his time in prison writing books on how people can avoid becoming victims of criminals like himself. 
...Disaster 
ice on its wings.

continuedfrom page 1 
"We want to know how long after carried only 53 passengers -some the last deicing that the plane was of whom said they almost had taken out in the open," he said, adding that the flight a day earlier. ice "could add substantial weight to 
But Washington's transportation an aircraft and destroy the perfor­woes continued. The city's proud mance ofan airplane." new Metro subway system was A veteran accident investigator, crippled by Wednesday's rush-hour Rudy Kasputin, said, "Everything is derailment that killed three passen­speculation at this time. We've got a gers and closed four stations ·in the difficult investigation ahead to learn 
heart of the city . And two-hour what happened." 
delays in railroad service in the busy In Miami, Cesar Alvarez, a seniornortheast corridor were caused by a vice president ofAir Florida, said thefreight train derailment between plane was deiced "two or threeWashington and Baltimore. 
times" and added that there wereThe air crash investigation got "no signs offuel contamination."
down to business at once. Francis McAdams,. head of a team of inves­Kasputin said everything would tigators assembled by the National be examined: runway conditions, Transportation Safety Board, said fuel purity, the state of the two one special concern was whether engines, pilot error and airport flight the plane took offcarrying too much rules. 


~-----~-----------~-----~-----­

The Observer Friday, January 1 5, 1982 ­
'Arnajor effort ' 
Haig attetnpts to break deadlock 
96 yea wk fl. e6faiK OBSeRUeR HOlOGRAPH flW luwe appeaud Ut flu PtlfiM Send $4.00 and the date and photographer's name to: john Macor Photo Editor Box Q Notre Dame , Indiana 46556 Include a return address.  
SU.DAY MASSIS A! SAOBID BlAB! OBUBOB Masses are for Sunday, Jan. 17,1982 8:18 PM SaturdaJ Bev. Oliver Williams, 0.8.0. ShOO AM SundaJ Rev. James Shilts, a.s.a. 10:10 AM Sunday Rev. David IJ. Schlaver, O.S.O. 11:18 •• Sunday Jlev. John fitzgerald, a.s.a. 7:18 PM Vespers Rev. David I. Schlaver, O.S.O.  

JERUSALEM (AP) -Secretary of State Alexander M. llaig Jr. told Is­rael and Egypt ycstt:rday that the Reagan administration wants them to break their deadlock. on Pales­tinian autonomy and work out an agreement before April. 
Asenior U.S. oftkial said Haig was 
pushing Israel and Egypt toward "a 
major effort" which they arc reluc­
tant to make. 
"We don't shan: their judgment 
that it's beM to wait," he told repor­
ters during the llight from Cairo to 
Israel. He requl·sted anonymity. 
April 2') is the date on which Is­rael is to withdraw from the eastern Sinai Desert, restoring the entire pl·ninsula to Egyptian rule. 
llaig met with Prime Minister Mena<:ht·m Begin after conferring ofthe West Bank and Gaza is the last 
major unresolved issue arising from 
the 1978 Camp David accords.
Keenan increases 
U.S. officials fear that unless agree­ment is reached soon, the peace ac­cords will die once Israel completes
security measures 
By MICHAEL WILKINS 
StaffReporter 
In an effort to inuease security 
and privacy, Keenan Hall is now 
locking Its doors at all times. Keenan 
becomes the last men's dorm to do 
so. 
The new procedure results from a 
"general consenus decision" 
according to Fr. Richard Conyers; 
Keenan Hall rector. 
"Security has become a mounting problem in the dorms. One response is to make things more secure,"Fr. Conyers said. Thieves stole stereo equipment recently. Last year, someone assaulted a student in the dorm, Fr. Conyers noted. 
Another reason for the new policy is privacy. Students frequently use Keenan as a shortcut to get from one place to another. 
"Students deserve to have quiet 
and privacy. The locked doors will 
result in no longer ha\ ing this build­
iflg used as a cut-through ti.>r stu­
dents," Fr. Conyers added. 
Fr. Conyers also noted that the 
locked doors will not limit access. 
The lobby door will remain open, as 
ND-Toronto exchange 
program 
By BOB ZIMMERMANN 
and TARA KENNEY 
Student (iot'<Trlment 
Editor's note: The following ar­ticle is part of a week~y series of reports by Student G(wemment. 
Thl· Notn· Dame Student Govern· mt:nt is sponsoring a student ex­changt: with Saint Michael's Campus at the University ofToronto. 
Notre Dame will be hosting Toronto student~ the weekend of Feb. I 1-14 and Notre Dame students will be visiting thl-Toronto campus .\1arch 4-7. Toronto last participated in an exchange with ND in 1979. 
Each ND student will bt: paired up with and hoM a Toronto student during the exchange. In return, that student will be hosted by his Toronto partner during thl' visit to Toronto in March. 
The activities planned for the Toronto students include a recep­tion, classroom visits, a trip to Chicago on Saturday and a farewell Mass and brunch. 
Studl·nts may sign up for the ex­
change starting Thursday at the Stu­
dent Government offices on the 
~econd lloor of LaFortune. The num­
ber of participants will be 
determint:d at that time. Estimated 
~.·o~t for the trip, including round 
trip transportation, accomodation 
and some meals b S60. 
with Foreign Minister Yitzhak Shamir and Defense Minister Ariel Sharon and questioning them close­ly on what shape Palestinian self-rule in the West Bank of the Jordan and Gaza Strip will take. 
An Israeli Foreign Ministry official 
briefing reporters on the Haig­
Shamir talk, said while Haig was 
<:areful not to set a deadline "he said 
it would be a good thing to get an 
agreement before April. 

"If we can reach an agreement before April, fine," said the official, who requested anonymity. "If we can't get an agreement before April, we will try to get one later on." 
Haig, the official said, fired off a long list of questions at Shamir, beginning with the issue of whether Jerusalem Arabs will be included in the autonomous area and going on to problems like who will control West Bank and Gaza land and water 
resources. 
On whether Jerusalem Arabs could vote for the autonomous bodies he got a flat "no" from Shamir, who said Israel regards the Arab sector of the city as Israel's sovereign territory outside the area to become self-governing, Israeli media reports said. The replies to 
Haig's other questions were not 
reported. 
From Sharon, Haig wanted to know how the Israeli army would deploy in the autonomous areas and what type ofpolice would handle in­ternal security, the reports said. 
Self-rule for the I.3 million people 
in all the men's dorms, allowing entry for all students. 
The decision to lock the doors at Keenan received generally good response from rectors and security. The success of the program at the other men's dorms across the campus shows use as one way to 
make the dorms more secure. 

its Sinai withdrawal. 
But Israeli officials said Haig did not present any new U.S. strategy for reaching agreement. This could come next month, ifHaigcarriesout other Cairo-Jerusalem visit that now is in the planning stages. 
"He didn't enunciate any American position at all," said the Foreign Ministry official. "He only asked for our positions." 
For gspendJess tinte studying.  
We'll show you how...free. Would you like to: Evelyn Wood works-over 1 million people, including students, executives, senators, and even0 Raise your grade average without long hours over texts. presidents have proven it. A free I hour demon· 0 End all-night cramming sessions. stration will show you how to save hundreds of hours of drudgery this year (as well as how to0 Breeze through all your studying in as little as increase your speto>d immediately with some simple1/:1 the time. new reading techniques).0 Have more free time to enjoy yourself. 0 Read 3 to 10 times faster, with better con­It only takes an hour, and it's free. Don't, miss it. centration, understanding, and recall. EvelynWoociiDEvelyn Wood'sreadingsystem makes it all possible . will open your eyes.  
ATTEND ANY ONE OF OUR FREE DEMONSTRATION LESSONS 4 DAYS ONLY! MONDAY TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY JAN. 18 JAN. 19 JAN. 20 JAN. 21 2:30 P.M. 4:00 P.M. 7:30 P.M. CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION AUDIO VISUAL THEATRE ~EVELYN WOOD READING DYNAMICS  

Friday,January 15, 1982-page 6

Eeatures 
The last time I saw Paris 


New year creates unique resolutions 
T
he holidaysare overand I assume we're all ready to stop goofing offand get down to work. I was so busy watching football over the long New Year's weekend that I never did get at making any resolutions for this year, but they're ready now. I hereby resolve: 
-Not to try to lose weight or go on any diets. I know the diets don't work and there's no sense pretending they might. 
-That trying to balance my bank statement is a waste of time. If there's a swindler in the bookkeepng department at the bank, I doubt ifhe's going to assume the bank is right. 
-To forget about trying to be in bed by II p.m. every night. I've worried about it for years and I'm not going to worry about it anymore. On the average night I miss by 20 minutes. Many nights I miss by halfan hour and, occasionally, I don't get to bed until I2:30. In the future when that happens, I'm just going to enjoy it and find 
someplace to sleep on the job the next day. ·-That the cellar and garage are fine the way they 


are. And so is the attic. Every 
Saturday morning for years 
I've awakened and started to 
make plans to clean them out. 
I hereby resolve not to suffer through another year orguut aoout tue mess in the basement, the garage and the attic. I like them the way they are and I'm going to leave them that way. 
-Not to try to keep either a diary or careful income tax records. I've started both ofthem half a dozen times in the past I 0 years and never got past March with them so what I did keep was a waste of time because three months ofrecords gets you you-know-where with the IRS. Next year, I'll fake the whole I2 months. 
I further resolve that: 
-I'm not going to try to stand up any straighter in I982 than I naturally stand, which is a little bent over. People have been nagging at me to "stand up straight" for as long as I can remember. My mother started at me when I was 9. I'm tired ofworrying about it. Take me as I am, a little stoop-shouldered, or don't take me at all. 
-There are books that I've always thought I should read and I never have. I'm not going to read them this year, either. "The Brothers Karamazov," "The Grapes ofWrath," "Moby Dick," and "A Farewell to Arms" will have to wait. 
-There may be a day I miss reading the newspaper, too, and I'm not going to kid myself this year by leaving it on the coffee table as if I was going to get at it tomorrow or the next day. I know damn well I'm not going to read it then eiither, so if I haven't read today's paper by the time tomorrow comes, I'm throwing it out this year whether it has my column in it or not. 
-I'm not going to worry about never having been to Spain. I didn't go to Spain last year. I didn't go to Spain IO years ago, and I'm not going to Spain next year, either. There are just too many places I've never been to to start worrying about one. 
-No matter what time I go to bed, I'm not going to resist falling 
asleep on the couch at 9:30p.m. in front ofthe television set in I982. 
I've spent hundreds ofmiserable hours trying not to fall asleep 
watchng terrible television shows and I'm not going to do it 
anymore. Ifl feel like taking a little nap beforegoing to bed, I'm going 
to take it. 

-I'm not going to try to improve my tennis game. My tennis game 
is just fine the way it is and any attempts I've ever made to make it 
better have failed. 
At long last I have become convinced we are what we are. I am 
what I am and no amount ofresolve will change me. 
OLD and NEW Features Writers Check in at the Observer office. WE WELCOME YOUR TALENT 
I 
've been alone in Pans. and I've been alone in New 
York; to tell the tmth, i've been alone in some ofthe 
most interesting cities on two continents. In Paris, I ate 
dinner a few times m-.t Vietnamese restaurant on the 
Left Bank For a few do!!;:rs, I could get soup, bread, and 
wine, and a curried chicken on rice, with honey cake for 
dessert. Coffee was t•.·u .U:ancs extra It was not 
Hemingway's Paris, but 1t was cheap, and I could go 
there early, long before ti:.te dinner hour at seven 
o'clock, when the more tashim.able restaurant~ opened. 
One ofthe numbing r~;aiizations in foreign cities is how willing people are to leave you alone. It destroys everysense you have ofpersonal worth to be left entirt. ly alone. In Paris, in a Vietnamese restaurant, I couldn't even talk with the waitress, since neither ofus knew enough ofthe other's language. I ordered by pointing out my choices on the menu. I paid by handing her a hundred franc note, and waiting to get back a lot of change. 
One night, while I was eating, an American student came in. I could guess that she was an American, be· cause she was paging through "Europe On Ten Dollars A Day" at her table. The place was very small, with less than a dozen tables crowded closely. In about five minutes, I could hear the whole convesation, when a young man carrying a camera, who had been studying the menu at a corner table, introduced himselfto her as an American student abroad, and he asked if he could join her for dinner. She said she would love it if he did. Soon, they were having a good time, exchanging travel­lers' experiences, discussing what to order, and trying to discover ifthey had some ofthe same friends at Mich­igan State. 
I seriouslyconsidered asking them to allow me, as an American away from home, to pay for their dinners, but I was shy about offering them my credentials as a well­intentioned gentleman, knowing I might bore and em­barrass them. Drinking wine on an empty stomach left me light-headed, so I fell into a fantasy ofday-dreaming. l wished I had a French beret and a Parisian accent so that as I passed their table when I left, I could murmur cliches at them about Paris in the spring time being for lovers, as Maurice Chevalier seemed to do in his movies. 
As it was, there was nothing I dared to say to them, 
Americans in Paris, even worthy ones, being a dime a 
dozen. Even with wine rushingto my head, I wasn't wil­
ling to risk the indignity of making a fool of myself. I 
regretted not belonging to the international com­
munity ofstudents who identify themselves with a 
guide book or a camera, and begin a friendship that lasts 
at least for the duration ofa meal. 
After dinner, I went back to Notre Dame, wishing I 
could glimpse Quasimodo on the bell towers. The 
square in front ofthe cathedral was full oftourists from 
Germany, who stared at me, I thought, as though I were 
Quasimodo. I felt like grunting at one woman who I 
thought was taking my picture, making noises inviting 
her to be my Esmeralda. It would have frightened the 
hell out ofher, I thought. Drinking wine when I'm 
depressed makes me crazy. Tourists, I could be sure, did 
not take their cameras to Notre Dame to snap pictures 
of me. 

lev. Robert firiffiD 
Letters to a J..onely God 
By myself in Paris, feeling blue, I kept remembering Jake Barnes in "The Sun Also Rises." "Better not think about it," he said when he began feeling bad. Thinking makes it bad, and wine doesn't help. Things will get bet­ter; in the meantime, you'd better not think about it. Courage is a form ofrefusing to think, when your thought will let you see what a mess things are. 
Ifl were wealthy, I thought, I could go to Maxim's for a drink. I might run intoJackie Onassis and her crowd at Maxim's. I don't knowJackie Onassis. It boggled my mind to think ofthe ways she could ignore me. I decided to walk along the river Seine. Eventually I could leave the river walk, and climb stairs onto boulevards close to the Hotel Crillon. All ofthe rivers run down to the sea, Hemingway wrote. All oflife runs into an experience called death, it seemed to me. Dying will be a lonely experience I thought, but nothing could be lonelier than walking by yourselfalong a gray river in a gray city, after which they tell you there's no place to go to now that you've seen Paree. The river water moves faster than you can move, and you wonder why it's in such a hurry. "It probably wants to get out of 
Paris," I thought grimly. "Better not think about it," I said out loud 
The Hotel Crillon reminded me ofFitzgerald's story, "Babylon Revisited." A glance at its expensive lobby showed me I was in a place where I could get arrested for loitering. "You can't go home to Babylon," I thought. "Babylon belonged to the Bad and the Beautiful. Anyway, all the great Babylonians have died." 
Outside, the light was finally leaving the sky, and the stars were coming out. It was eleven o'clock, and thee was no place to go but the hotel whee I was sleeping. The darkness was peaceful, and I began to feel happy. Darkness always seems a friend to me. Dangers come with darkness, I thought, but nothing is more dangerous than the thoughts than comefrom beingalone. Daylight offers you emptiness, when you're by yourself Night promises tomorrow, when something unexpected might turn up, like finding out that you are loved. 
Back at the hotel, I saw the young man from the res­
taurant. I wondered what had happened to the girl. 
I wanted to tell him: "Paris in the springtime is for 
lovers," using a Parisian accent. 
It would have been a dumb thing to say. I didn't even 
have the excuse ofwine softening my brain for wanting 
to say it. "It would have reminded him he was alone for 
the night," I thought. "He deserves having that fact 
rubbed in." It is wicked to want to punish a person for 
being young. 
The next day, I left Paris to spend a summer in New 
York. In New York, at least, you can talk to cab drivers. 
After living in Paris, no wonder Sartre became an at­
heist. 

Movie review 
v~eUJers

'Neighbors' besieges • 
A
fter sitting throughNeighbors, combines outrageous humor with blank stare and a raised eyebrow), John Belushi and Dan Aykroyd's penetrating insight into our com­Earl Keese comes across as a latest destruction comedy, the most temporary lives." Unfortunately, 
cardboarcl cut-out totally devoid of 
pertinent question in my mind was the film does not come close to 
any reason, emotion, or interest. 
either goal. 

Meanwhile, Cathy Moriarty,By Dennis Chalifour Surprisinly enough, television's who Martin Scorcese brilliantly MASH creator, Larry Gelbart is casted asJake LaMotta's postcard
who to blame. Certainly, someone 
credited as responsible for the dis­wife in Raging Bull, brings enouh
must be reprimanded for 
jointed and nonsensical life to the Ramona character to
manufacturing a motion picture that 
screenplay. But let's not point the make her both vulgar and
lacks, in an almost textbook fashion. 
finger just yet. At the time ofthe repulsive. Motivated solely by an 
every single staple ofgood filmmal 
film's release, in true Paddy urge to poke fun at Earl's groin at
from the illm's credits. The script, tootsie. 
suburban Everyman whose con­
he says, was grossly and detrimen­As Vic, Dan Aykroyd provides
ventionally ooring life is sudden!} 
tally tampered with. the movie with its only hint ofin­
opened up by the bizarre yet per­
·Blame, however, begins to take tellignece. As he did in both 1941 
suasive Vic and the seductive yet 
shape when we examineJohn and The Blues Brothers, Aykroyd
tortuous tease ofa woman, 
Belushi's interpretation ofthe Earl brins a spark oflife to his role and 
-~eese role. Twenty minutes into provides the film's only laughs.
television-framed lie ofconformit. 
and the perverse romance ofVic 
full ofyuks as Samurai Chiroprac­showcase his acute talent. 
tor, but when it comes to fully lfyou·re consideringNeighbors
developing a three dimensional for some weekend divertissement,
showed the promise ofdeveloping 
character like Berger's Earl Keese, I can only recommend what the 
into a film that press releases 
he fails miserably. Animated by illm's "prelude" recommends-­
referred to as "a comedy that 
Belushl's backstock oftwo faces (a read the book. 


Sports Brie!§ 
By Thl! Obsl!rt'l!r and Tbl! Associatl!d Press 
Every Saturday night, the Student Union will spon­scr a ski trip to Swiss Valley. Advance tickets can be purchased at the ticket office for $2.•;o, or for 113.00 on the shuttle bus. The bus will depart from the Main Circle at 5 p.m. every Saturday and return to campus at II p.m. All are invited to come and join the fun. -The Observer 
The Student Union has announced that there are still eight openings remaining for the ski trip during Spring Break (March 13-19). To sign up, bring a 575.00 deposit to the Student Union ticket office by this Monday, January 18. If you have already signed up for this trip, please bring a second deposit of $50.00 to the ticket office by Monday. -The Observer 
The women's crewclub will hold an organizational meeting on Sunday, January 17, at 7 p.m. in LaFortune. The meeting is mandatory for all those interested in rowing this spring. New members arc also welcome to attend. -The Observer 
The NDI SMC ski team wm hold a mandatory practice and time trials at Royal Valley Ski Area this Sunday, January 
17. Anyone with any interest in skiing this semester should attend. Transportation leaves the main circle at noon. Dress to ski! For in­formation call Barry Tharp ( 15 70), Steve Hilbert ( 3659), Sue Hill ( 1674) or Nancy Sheft (SMC 4996). -·-The Observer 
Soccer team winter workouts will begin on Sunday, January 17 in the ACC Pit. A mandatory meeting for all 1982 soccer team candidates will be held prior to the first practice on Sunday, beginning at 9:30 a.m. in the Pit. All interested persons must attend the meeting and be dressed for practice, which will follow im­
mediately after the meeting. -The Observer 
Women's track and cross-country runners will meet Tuesday at 7 p.m. in Lewis basement to discuss practices and meets. All arc welcome. For more information call Lisa ( 8091 ) or Cindy (8073). -The Observer 
The Tae Kwon Do/ Karate Club of Notre 
Dame will hold its first practice of the semester Tuesday January 19 at 6:15 p.m. in the wrestling room of the ACC. Old member are encouraged to attend. New members, whether advanced or begin­ners, arc welcome. For more information call Ray ( 288-3108). 
The Observer 
A 5K road runwill be held tomorrow in South Bend. The run will be sponsored by the Sports Medicine Program of the Saint Joseph's Medical Center, and will take place at 8:30a.m. in the Ben­dix Woods County Park. Registration ends today, and a five dollar entry fee is charged. For more information call the Athletic Annex at 272-7565. -The Observer 
Notre Dame football players appeared in several all-star bowl games over break. John Krimm and Phil Pozderec played together or the East squad in the annual East/West Shrine Game. Pozderec was also slated to appear in the Japan Bowl. Irish co-captain Bob Crable chose to appear in only the Hula Bowl. Joe Gramke also was chosen for the annnual Blue/Gray Game clash. ­
The Observer 
Spring lacrosse participants must sign up for weight training times by noon Monday. For more information on lacrosse call 239-5108.-The Observer 
Classifieds 
Friday,January 15, 1982-page 7 
College basketball games 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. (AP) -Ron 
Stokes hit two free throws with 
three seconds left in overtime last 
night to lift Ohio State to a 51-50 win 
over Illinois in Big Ten basketball. 
Stokes, a freshman guard, was 
fouled by Illinois guard Perry Range. 
He sank both shots, lifting the 
Buckeyes to their ninth consecutive 
victory and third in a row in the Big 
Ten. 
Ohio State led through most ofthe 
game, taking a six-point lead at 32­
26 with 1:50 to play in the first half 
and holding a 32-30 edge at the in­
termission. 
Illinois guard Craig Tucker tied the game at 44-44 with 5:53 remain­ing in regulation time. That was the last basket scored in regulation play as both teams went into slowdown patterns, hoping for a last shot. 
In the overtime period, Illinois jumped to a 48-44 lead on baskets by Range and Craig Tucker. But Ohio State followed with baskets by for­ward Clark Kellogg and center Gran­ville Waiters, plus Stokes' clutch free throws. 
Kellogg led all scorers with 19 points, while Illinois center James Griffin led the Illini with 15. Ohio State is 12-3 overall and 3-0 in the Big Ten, while Illinois dropped to 1­2 in the conference and 8-4 overall. 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. (AP) ­Craig Robinson scored a career-high 24 points and helped Virginia break open the game in the first half, leading the third-ranked Cavaliers to a 99-67 victory over Wagner Thursday night in a non-conference college basketball game. 
Robinson, whose previous career high was 16 points, had 14 of his points in the first half. He scored eight in a row, including a pair of three-point plays, to start Virginia on a 21-2 burst that used up 4:43 of the first half and gave the Cavaliers a 38­22 lead with 3:07 to go in the half. 
MADISON, Wis. (AP) -Art Aaron's 14 points led a balanced Northwestern scoring attack, as the Wildcats took a 61-55 Big Ten bas­ketball victory from Wisconsin last night. 
The victory improved the Wildcats' record to 2-1 in the Big Ten and 6-6 overall. Wisconsin is 1-2 and 4-7. 
Northwestern stifled the Badgers' inside game with a tight zone defense and trailed only once in the game, 29-28, after Wisconsin's Cory Blackwell made a jump shot with 59 seconds left in the first half. 
Tht> Wildcats came bac:;_" to lead 30-29 at intermission after a techni­cal foul was called on Wisconsin Coach Bill Cofield with two seconds left andJim Stack made the resulting two free throws. 
The game remained close in the second half, and Scott Roth's jump shot pulled the Badgers within one point at 46-45 with 6:48 remaining. 
However, Northwestern then when on a 12-4 tear to lead 58-49. Wisconsin's only points during the dry spell came on two free throws by Brackwell and a 20-foot jumper by senior guard John Bailey with 
1:30 left. 

Stack added 13, Michael Jenkins 12 and freshman center Andre Goode 10 for the Wildcats. 
Freshman guard Carl Golston had 12 and Bailey 1 0 for Wisconsin. 
MINNEAPOUS (AP)-Minnesota's 
· 7-3 center Randy Breuer scored 22 points, lifting the I I th-ranked Gop­hers to a 61-56 victory over fifth­rated Iowa last night in Big Ten basketball action. 
The Gophers, who upped their record to 1 0-2 and 2-1 in the Big Ten, broke open a tight game mid­way through the second half. 
It was the firt Big Ten loss for Iowa which fell to 10-2 overall and 2-1 in the conference. 
Minnesota fell behind the Haw­keyes 29-27 at the half but came out in the second halfand whittled out a three-point edge. Then, with the -score 41-38, Iowa's Kevin Boyle fouled Trent Tucker. 
Tucker made the front end of a one-and-one. The Gophers got the rebound and Breuer put one in, but was fouled by Greg Stokes. Breuer made the foul shot and completed a four-point turnaround. 
From that point, Minnesota built its lead to 13. 
The Hawkeyes came back to cut the lead to six but could get no closer as they were forced to foul in the closing minutes. 
Guard Kenny Arnold led the Haw­keyes with 14, followed by Boyle with 10. 
Besides Breuer, other Gopher players in double figures were Gary Holmes and Darryl Mitchell with 10 each. 
The Hawkeyes only shot 3 7 per­cent in the second half and 45 per­cent for the game, while the Gophers shot 58 percent from the field in both halves. 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (AP)-In­diana snapped a four-game losing string with an 81-51 Big Ten Con­fcrence basketball victory ove1 
Michigan's slumping Wolverines las. 
night. 
The victory lifted Indiana to 1-2in the conference and 7-5 overall, while Michigan, off to the school's worst start in history, dropped its eighth straight game and fell to 0-3 in the Big Ten and 1-10 for the season. 
The Hoosiers, seeming to solve 
the problem of turnovers that had 
plagued them during their four­
game slide, never trailed the Wol­
verines. After a 2-2 tie, a free throw 
by freshman forward John Flowers 
and a basket by swingman Randy 
Wittman put Indiana ahead for good 
Michigan came no closer than tw< 
points after that. 
Two more free throws by Flowers with 13 minutes left in the first half stretched Indiana's lead to six points and started a 12-2 Hoosier spurt that broke the game open. The Wol­verines pulled within 1 0 points on back-to-back field goals by Willis Carter and Thad Garner -Michi­gan's only consecutive baskets in the first period -but another 13-6 In­diana burst widened the lead to 39­22 at halftime. 
The Hoosiers coasted to victory in the second half and built their big­gest lead ofthe game at the final mar­gin on a three-point play by freshman Dan Dakich in the closing seconds. 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. (AP) ­
Keith Edmonson scored 21 points 
last night as Purdue, getting its final 
10 points from the free throw line, 
shut off a strong Michigan State rally 
and beat the Spartans 53-47. 
The Boilermakers led 28-20 at halftime and built the lead to 11 points at 33-22 early in the second half before guard Kevin Smith ignited the Spartan comeback. 
Smith, who had only three points in the first half, added 12 points in the final period. A basket by Kurt James and a pair of free throws by Smith pulled Michigan State within one point, 39-38, but two free throws by Edmonson, a rebound basket by Russell Cross and two more foul shots by Edmonson stretched the lead back to seven points with three minutes remain­ing. 
Baskets by Smith and Derek Perry 
cut the lead to three points before 
Smith fouled out with 1:19 to go. 
Cross finished with I 5 points and Eifert added six. Besides Smith, nobody else scored more than six points for the Spartans, who dropped to 1-2 in the Big Ten and 6-7 overall 

TYPEWRITERS FOR SALE: SMITH Need t housemate. Very Close to Housi:.F6R..fii:NT...<3iRI.s.6t-ll.v·s Kappa Epsilon Gamma CORONA MANUAL, $30. OLYMPIA 
YOU EARNED IT JENNIFER! ELECTRIC, $t50. IBM SELECTRIC I, BEDROOMS, ONE BLOCK FROM
Campus. 272-9913 That's roghtl The Frat Brats are back I 
LOST/FOUND 
Beware ol more PORTA-PARTIES this$275. DITTO MACHINE, $40. ALL IN MEMORIAL HOSPITAL & BUS STOP, ORNAMENTS DON'T BREAK,THEY semester B.P. and Farley! ­MINT CONDITION. 684-2822. CHARACTER, FURNISHED. CALL BY

LOST:A BLACK TELEPHONE DURING JUST KEEP HANGING ON We will also have the first annual P.O. D.
SUNDAY, t/t7 IF INTERESTED. 233­

BREAK party
9947

STEREO EQUIPMENT TAPE DECKS FOR RENTSOME THIEF CAME INTO MY ROOM We'll keep you tnlormed.
SPEAKERS EVERYTHING AT ROCKOVER BREAK 
BOTTOM PRICES FOR STUDENTS ON­w~iki~~ di~i~~~~ ·;;~,;; ·~~,;;~~~i;; ·i;i~~k~i MURPH! Congratulatoons on making it to 
AND JUST STOLE MY PHONE. AND 
FaR····Fii:Nr:····i~;;;~,'d~-~~.. ··~·; .. ··9;~~~:: crawling dist lrom Corby's-Notre Dame 2t. Can you get totally laced and still look THAT'SALLI Hey John B .. 
LY BOSE HK NIKKO JVC MANY MORE Godly? We shall see.
CALL JB AT 8228 or 8232, FIND OUT comfortable house close to campus, bus Apts. on bus rte.,bar privacy,inexpensive. 
IF YOU NEED A PHONE, GET IT FROM Welcome back to Notre Dame. 
HOW NICE A STEREO CAN SOUNDI $500 per semester share ol utilities. Call Call Kirk 283-8930 
INDIANA BELLI II you hked the first semester.
THIS IS ITI Paul Murphy is 2t today. Be288-3942 after 5:30pm. 
IF YOU DO HAVE A CHANGE OF YOU'LL LOVE THIS ONE I 
ROOM FOR RENT/CLOSE TO sure to wish him a good one. ladies please HEART.MORE-ON 
HousE· FoR· Rl:t-lr ..EolsoN.PARK:·2 CAMPUS/SAFE NEIGHBOR-do so in person. Murph will be on rare form 
PLEASE CALL ME AT 6726. Now that I am back, I'm going to be watch­MILES EAST OF CAMPUS. 234-6302. 
HOOD/CALL JOHN 3333 tonoght as massove drinking is slated tor ing lor wondow exits. You know who youthos event.
WANTED are.... -Ry
I J 
FoR.RENT:·ual.v.ouci<l.it-l<3.RI:Nrf.. FoR.RENr481:oRooM Housii NEAR CAR. $t 0. A DAY WITH 50 FREE MILES. 
CAMPUS POPULAR LOCATION PHONE 259-8459 FOR RESERVA­CLEAN, IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY
,.I_______S_A_L_E___JI ~~~~t;.... ~~~k~n;; ~i~~~~~FOR TuToR-to 
TIONS. CALL 272-8866 AFTER 3 ALL URBAN PLUNGERS-URBAN preparing tor Medocal College Admissoons .... PLUNGE FOLLOW-UP AT 7:30 PM 
Test. Requires in-depth knowledge ol Sh~;~ ... ;~;~;~hed ...h~~;;;; .. ~/2 ... g;~d~ NEEDEO ROOMATE :GOOD LOCA· SUNDAY, JANUARY t7, MEMORIAL 


College Boology, Chemistry and Physics, LIBRARY AUDITORIUM. T -er-a-0-ummmm-R·hmmm-CH-Iet'a FOR SALE: NO wool & leather 1acket. 
Soze. large. Never been worn. $50.00. tOO/mo 113utiL 287-0356. TION CLOSE TO CAMPUS $75 A 
Call272·9770 teaching experience a plus. Graduate or MONTH NOT INC. UTILITIES CALL see two more-l-help-A. Yeah, that's H, PhD student In scoence preferred. Call srui:iii't..ir ...... HousiNci~Ful.l.v...... ;;uR-STEVE 233-34tt NOTE TIME CHANGE TORCHIA! Where's my tatoo artist? 232-2366. ··The Top 20 Tome Tunnel" wHh Tim Neely Mooooooooo.
BOOKS FOR SALE: COURSES: ECON NisHEo. CLEAN, SAFE, WASHER. 
on WSND AM 64 will run on Sundays from ..................
tt5, GEOLOGY(EASC t02). INTRO TO DRYER, RATED SUPERIOR. $t00/MO
MARKETING COOROINATORS 6 to 8 p.m. beginning this week and Good God, this student business has me
MUSIC-2200 BOOKS NEEDED: TOTAL. 291-1405. 
COURSES: GOV'T 34t-INT'L RELA­..................................
NEEDED Part tome posotoon onvolves conhnuing throughout the semester. mark-sensing In my sleep. Oops, gotta TIONS, GOV'T 342-COMPARATIVE marketing and promoting hogh quality 82-83. 4 BDRM HsE:: C:l.osii ·To PERSONALS Thos Week: January 17, 1970 teaturong go, must study; Uncle Ryan Spnng Break beach tnps on campus. records by the Beatles, the Jackson Five 
GOV'T, ENG 386·MAJOR AMERICAN CAMPUS. EXCEL CONDITION, ········································· 
WRITERS II. ACCOUNTING 26t·BASIC FURNITURE, CALL GREG CRESS, 287­Earn commission plus tree traveL Call Elvis Presley and t7more... HUMPHREY BOGART FANS--SEE THE 
Summrt Tours, Phone: t (800) 325-0<4'J9. MALTESE FALCON TUES JAN t9 AND LIST. 
CALL CHRIS AT t878 ANYTIME. 5361 AFTER 6 PM OR CHECK HSE OFF CONGRATS MISS MAGUIRE WED JAN 20. 7,9, t1 ENG AUD $t 

~-------­
The Observer -Sports Friday,January 15, 1982-page 8 

I ' 


this Saturday, Jan .16 is Stepan Center from 9:30-12:30. 
You must see THE KIND I 
• Admission $1 _,•
c 
3 
•

--• 
It's been a strange 13 months of unemployment for Dan Devine. But then, he never really was your average football coach. In fact, during his tenure at Notre Dame, virtually no one viewed him as an average anything. For every alum, player, fan or member of the media who thought there was no one better, there was another who thought there was no one worse. He certainly could lay claim to being one ofthe most misunderstood men in sports. 
Is Dan Devine the scheming, inept, awkward man a David Israel would write about, or rather, the sincere, dedicated football wizard a David Condon would describe? Perhaps no one is qualified to answer that question objectively. 
One month from today, the 57-year-old Devine begins a new job. After 26 years as a head coach and a year of "retirement," he's taking a public relations job that was rumored to be his in early-November. He has been named the executive director of the Sun Angels Foundation, Arizona State's independent booster or­ganization. 
The appointment bringsto a close an unusual year for the man who hasn't been able to escape the eye of the hurricane since coming to Notre Dame in 1975, even following his resignation in August of 1980. Even the announcement itself was surrounded by contreversy. Virtually no one knew it was coming. 
The week before last year's Alabama game, a repon appeared in the Chicago Tribune indicating that Devine had "pleaded" for his job back, and would return for the 1981 season. The paper admitted the next day that it had been misinformed. 
The past year has been a tension-filled one for Devine, the Notre Dame football program and the relationship between the two. Anti-Devine forces blamed the former coach for part ofthe current team's woes, saying he'd left Gerry Faust with little to work with. Devine supporters responded by asserting that Faust had taken virtually the same players, and turned a 9-2-1 team into a 5-6 team. 
Faust offered an open invitation to aU former coaches to be a part of"their team." After all, Faust told Devine, "you're family." Devine feels he made an effort to stay away from the program, perhaps because he knew some would interpret any interaction with the players as 
interfering.  Many  athletic  department  personnel,  
including  certain  assistant  coaches,  never  thought  
much of Devine.  

Once, the former coach visited practice during the preseason and ate at training table. He visited the press box and the sidelines during the Michigan game, some­thing Qevine felt was innocent enough. Once again, dif­ferent interpretations of the same facts were complimented by rumors and office gossip. 
The falling out occured at mid-season, much like it had when Ara Parseghian stepped down following the 1974 season. It is safe to say that Parseghian never showed his face at a Devine practice, just as Devine has separated himself from Faust's program. ''I'd say this move formalizes my divorce from Notre Dame foot­ball," Devine said yesterday in a telephone interview from Tempe, Ariz., "although it probably occurred a few months ago. But I still am, and hope to continue to be, close to cenain players." 
But the past, is the past, is the past, as Devine might say. He would just as soon look ahead to his new job, than dwell on any mistreatment he may have perceived over the past year. 

cD000IT ~~W 1MJM 1!00@UJJ@DfiTJ mi m  ~00~ lm1 LruJ rnm@~ TI® ill  
oz~-~  ®J~  
(}BouRN[  ·A  D  A  

~ 
SP.ecial 
Guest 
STARFIGHTER Saturday, Feb. 6, 1982 8 PM NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 
0 0 0

TICKETS ON SALE NOW $1 0/$9 Reserved at AoCoCo Box Office, in South
0 

end at Robertson's, St Joseph's Bank & 1st Source
0 

nk--main offices only, ih Elkhart at Robertson's, lkhart Truth & Suspended Chord, in Ft Wayne
0 
t Slatewood Records. 

Devine finally moving on 


' 

The Observer -Sports 
A rose by anyother name ••• 
SAN FRANCISCO -Earlier this winter they had a contest in the Bay Area to come up with a nickname for Joe Montana. 
Now, they may go back to the one he already had. 
Notre Damt•'s "Comeback Kid" brought his team back against the almighty Dallas Cowboys last Friday, and now, just three years out ofcollege, he's leading his team to tht· Super Bowl. 
The confidence that the Beaver Falls, Pa. native dis­played during his collegiate career, when he pulled off come-from-behind wins with regularity, has made him one of the top signal-callers in the NFL. 
"lkfore the game Joe was just sitting there with his earphones on," said the '49ers Keith Fahnhorst after the 28-27 win in last Sunday's NFC Championship. "He had won a national championship in college, so this was no big thing to him. 
"I had never won any damn thing. He calmed me down." 
Montana had the same effect on the entire team. 
"I swear to God I knew we were going to score when we were at our I 1," said Fahnhorst of the deciding touchdown drive. "I don't think one guy in the huddle felt any other way." 
Certainly Montana did not. 

"I was very confident in the huddle," the All-Pro quar­terback said. "We had to move the ball and we knew we could." 
Even the thought of a dream-ending interception didn't phase Montana. "No, you can't be worried about those things," he said. "That's when you start to throw them." 
Everson Walls, the Cowboys' rookie deensive back, who had intt·rcepted two of Montana's passes before tht· fateful drive, shrugged off the thought ofany decid­ing turnover as well. 
"That doesn't stop Joe Montana. He's a gambler. He takes all tht· chances he has to to win." 

Irishforwards will have to compensatefor the loss ofTom Sluby ifNotre Dame is to gain any success this season. (photo by Rachel Blount) 
SARCENT &LUNDY ENCINEERS will be recruiting on campus 

"That fake was the difference," said one Cowboy 
defender. "I can't belive he had enough cool to fake 
when he had a couple ofguys like that coming at him." 
But he did. 

Just as he had enough cool to find Kris Haines alone in 
the end zone to cap a miraculous 35-34 Cotton Bowl 
win over Houston. And as he had been level-headed 
enough to engineer similar comebacks against Air 
Force, Purdue and Southern Cal. 
"When I released the ball, 1 knew it was high," Mon­tana said in the lockerroom. "But I didn't know it was up that high-where (Dwight Clark) would have to jump three feet off the ground for it. 
"I saw the catch for the first time on television. It was an unbelievable catch." 
And not a bad throw. First there was the pump fake, and then the way Montana lofted the ball just out of reach of any defenders. Post-game quotes aside, a pos­sible interception was very much on his mind. Since it was only third down, he knew he had another shot at getting the ball in the end zone, and he was not going to take any extra chances. 
As Walls said, Montana gamble~ just enough to win. 
"He's an exceptional athlete and an outstanding quar­
terback," beamed San Francisco Head Coach Bill Walsh. 
But Notre Dame fans already knew that. 
JANUARY 29th
SMC women win again at home 
By DAVE WILSON 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's basketball team picked up its fifth victory against four losses Wednesday night with a convincing 76-62 triumph over IUPU-Fort Wayne in Angela Athletic Fadlity. Although plagued with in­juries and idle three weeks for the holiday break, the Belles returned to action in good form, and seemingly ready to face the remainder ofa busy schedule ahead. 
The team jumped out to an eight· point lead midway through the first half, and extended that margin to 10 
continuedfrom page I 2 
impressive showing against San Francisco earlier this week. "We played as wei as we have all year in Oakland, but we can't afford to start looking ahead to Villanova. David­son is primed to come into the ACC and do what Murray State and Not· hern Illinois did -knock us off." 
Other Wildcats to watch include john Carroll, a veteran guard who runs the Davidson offense, and Tom Franz, a 6-5 forward. 
Up front, the Wildcats are big and 
physical. Along with 6-10 Tribus and· 
Franz, 6-10 cc:-ntcr Jamie Hall is a 
force with which to be dealt. Hall 
gathers in roughly seven rebounds a 
game, as well as pumping in over 13 
points in every contest from his post 
position. 
Hussey is in his first year at David­
son after a succesfull I 0-year stint at 
Belmont Abbey. He jumped to a new 
school after building one ofthc most 
powerful small-college basketball 
programs in the country. 
He is trying to restore some luster to a Davidson program that was a perennial power under coaches like Lefty Dricscll and Terry Holland before falling on hard times in the mid-I 970's. 
"We need a win badly," says Phelps, who admits that the perfor­mance on the west coast was a big by halftime, leading 34-24. A reck­less second-half performance by the opposition allowed the Belles to continue building a lead they never relinquished. 
The contest was a costly one, as both teams picked up injuries. Freshman guard Kathy Murphy slipped late in the second half and apparently injured her arm, al­though the extent of that injury is unknown. With a number of team members already injured and the loss of freshman Missy Van Ort for academic reasons, Dallessio managed to use all ofhis players, and 
just about every one scored. 

boost. "We want to get that win right away, get things turned around, and face the I 6 games that arc left with a whole new outlook." 
A new outlook may be the least of . Phelps worries. The loss ofSluby fur­ther decimates an Irish frontcourt that has been totally unable to hold its own on either the offensive or defensive boards. The Wildcats' big front line may just cause more all­too-familiar problems. 
IRISH ITEMS -Dan Duff was back on the practice court yesterday afternoon. The freshman guard sut~ 
SCORES 
College Baaketball Scorea Laat Night's Games 
Minnesota 61. Iowa 56 Indiana 81. M1ch1gan 51 Purdue 53. M1ch1an State 47 llhno1s St. 81, lnd1ana St. 63 Oh1o St. 51. 1111no1s 50 V~rg1n1a 99. Wagner 67 Northwestern 61. W1sconsin 55 Fordham 48. St. Peler"s 39 Tulsa 71. Drake 54 Temple 73, Delaware 49 Duquesne 72. P1nsburgh 62 LaSalle 79, Rider 70 Flor•da St. 75. St. louis 74 Austin Peay 66. E. Kentucky 60 loUISiana Tech 60. S. Miss1ssipp1 58 Bradley 68. New Mexoco St. 62 Wichita St. 69. Cre1ghton 56 

Mary Pat Sitlington led the Belles 
Sign up for your interview now!
with 14 points, followed closely by Equal Opportunity Employer M IF
Gretchen Meyer and Cyndi Short 
with 1 3 and 11 points respectively. 
Elaine Seuss added I 0 points, while 
lr;::lS==A==RG==E==N==T~==~l==c:~N==~~==!~.~t Teresa McGinnis came on strong in the second half to score all nine of 
Excellence In Energy E:1glneerlng 

her points. The Belles committed a large number ofturnovers, but at the same time forced IUPU-Fort Wayne to cause no less than thirty tur­novers itsel[ 

The nex• .::c:ucst for Saint Mary's 
nere will be an important meeting
will be away at St. Joseph's College to face the Pumas on Tuesday night. The annual Saint Mary's College 
for all Advertising Sales11en 
Roundball Classic. 
Sunday, Jan. 17 at3pm.
. . .Men 


ferred a bone chip in his ankle in the Missouri game, and was expected to be lost to the team for at least six weeks. He reports some progress however, and says he is shooting for a return by the third week of February ...Notre Dame's 8-0 mar­gin over Davidson dates back to a 1974, when the annual series began ...Phelps signed yet another high school standout over break. 6­10 center Tim Kempton of Oyster Bay, N.Y. became the fourth prep star to sign an institutional letter of 
intent here. 
Fri.  -­ Sale 3-6 pm  
Sat.  --Sale  
changed from 1-4 to 3-6 pm  
Sun.  --Pick up  unsold books  

& money 1-4 pm 

LAFORTUNE next to balltoom 


., 
Friday, January 15, 1982 -page 10
The Observer 
At Rosemont 
Runnersfacing tough road 
ByEARLRIX Freshmen Jim Tyler and Tim Can­freshman James Patterson, and pos­Sportswriter non are expected to help the Irish in sibly Pearcy will long jump. Doyle 
Joe Piane is proud of the steady middle-distance events, where they and Steve Chronen will pole vault, improvemem of the Notre Dame will join All-America Tim Macauley, and Constable will be a valuable ad­Track Team he has coached for the Jim Moyar, Tony Hatherly and dition as a high jumper. Doyle, Frank past seven years. Despite the loss of senior tri-captain Rick Rogers. They Riely, George Petras, Kevin Meyer, AU-America Chuck Aragon to will have a tough time living up to anu freshman footballer Robby Fin­graduation, Piane expects this year Aragon's performances ofa year ago.· negan will add strength in the to be no exception. Piane feels the sprinters will be wieght events. 
"Our team is a hell of a lot more vastly better than last year. There The Irish will have their first taste 
balanced than ever before," says Bernie Adell, Mitch VanEyken, 
of competition at a low-key, non­Piane. He poims to the acquisition of Pearcy, Steve Dziabis, and senior lei­
scoring, ten-team meet at Purdue 7-2 high jumper Chuck Constable, captain Jacques Eady will share the 
tommorrow. and sprinter Mitch VanEyken, both chores. John McCloughan will run On Sunday at the Rosemontfreshman from North Babylon, New the high hurdles and Bill Ribera will Horizon, about 11 Irish trackmenYork, from which seniors Jacques try to fill the shoes ofTim Twardzic will have a chance to competeEady andJim Christian also hail. in .the intermediate hurdles. 
against some of the world's greatest"It's a pretty young team," says The distance corps of sopho­track athletes. John McCloughanPiane. "The athletes themselves are mores Andy Dillon and Ralph Caron will have a chance to test his hur­ofa higher caliber than they were in and juniors Tim Novak and Tim dling speed against the two topthe past. You can't recruit a great Bartrand is one year older, and, hurdlers in the world, Renaldoathlete unless you have someone for Piane hopes, one year better. 

Skeets Nehemiah, and Greg Foster.

them to run with. We now can be­The field events traditionally have Constable will get to high jumpcause the team is improving. not been Notre Dame's strong point. 
agaist Dwight Stones. Steve DziabisAnother freshman of whom great They have been considerably will run the 600 and Ralph Caron

things are expected is Van Pearcy of strengthened this year. Four years Andrews, Texas. Pearcy's knee is ago we had nobody jumping over 22 will run the 3-mile against tough 
competition.

now mending following arthro­feet. Now we have four guys jum­scopic knee surgery in December. ping past 23 feet and two of them The Irish will also field one-mile "He won't be running much till have gone over 24 feet. That's as and two-mile relay teams in this February, but nevertheless he will good as anybody, says Piane. Senior prestigious meet, called the Good­be a big asset for us -and making a tri-captain decathelete Paul Doyle, will Games. really good strong contribution by March, says Piane. 
• • . Women 
IRISH ITEMS -Junior Irish for­

continuedfrom pal{e 12 
ward Shari Matvey set another Notre Dame career record during the roadRonda Rompola, a 5-9 senior for­

* Cll~ldH!ll ¥ 
trip ...Matvey, who already holdsward from Sayerville, N.J., averages several Irish scoring records18.7 points and 8 rebounds a contest (including most points in a career),for the Lady Mustangs. "They look to 

is now the leading rebounder in 

Rompola to do everything," DiS­

monday night film series I 
Irish history ...Matvey surpassedtanislao says. "We'll have to make an Jane Politski's record of 566exceptional defensive effort to stop

A group1ng of d1stlngu1shed films shown in conjunction With the course GOTH 314 (Film History) and GOTH 462 (Film Theory 
rebounds during Notre Dame's vic­her."

and Criticism) and sponsored by the Department of Communication & Theatre. 
tory over Marquette in the cham­Rompola played on two national

All showings at the Annanbarg Auditorium, the Snlta Museum of Art, Notre Dame Campus at 7:00 p.m. unless otnerwise noteo. 
pionship game. of the Dial Classic 

Individual Admissions $1 .00 Series Ticket: 13 films for $10.00 
championship teams at Old ... Four freshmen are at the top ofDominion before transferring to
January 18 March 8 
the Irish scoring list. Ruth Kaiser,

The Conversation Zoetrope, Directed by Franc1s Ford ~.Italy, 1942 (135 minutes) 
SMU for personal reasons. She is Mary Beth Schueth, and Carrie Bates
Coppela. 1974 (113 minutes) The debut of Luchino Visconti marks thiS unauthorized adapta­
playing her first season for Coach
An acerbic thr~ller rendering the psychological d1sintegrat1on of a tion of James M. Cain's The Postman Always Rings Twice. 
are each averaging over 1 1 points a 

tortured surveillance expert in a tour de force of paranoia, nar­
Welton Brown. 

game, and Laura Dougherty is John Cazale and Robert Duvall. Ace In the Hole Paramount, Dlfected by Billy Wilder, 1951 rative ingenuity and expressive sound. With Gene Hackman, March 22 
averaging 9. 5 ppg. ...Schueth leads 

(122 minutes) January 25 This cynical film follows Kirk Douglas' oppOrtunistic newspaper­
"SMU, like St. Francis, 1s not as tall all rebounders. averaging 10 a gamr. Broken Bl0880m8 United ArtiSts. Directed by D. W. man as he seizes upen a mine accident for journalistic stardom. 
as we are," says DiStanislao. "They ... Beginningwith Sunday's contest 
Griffith, 1919 (68 minutes) regardless of the consequences. Domestic melodrama of a villainous boxer, his battered i~ 
will be changing defenses constantly with SMU, Notre Dame plays five out 
legitimate daughter and the Chinese storekeeper who protects March 29 
to keep us off guard." ofthe next six games at home. 
her. With Lillian Gish. Donald Barthelmess and Donald Crisp. Last Year at Marlenbacl Cinemascope, Directed by 
Alam Resna1s. France. 1961 (93 minutes) February 1 Delphine Seyng and Giorg1o Albertazz1 star as castaways in a An Evening of Silent Comedy (1 02 minutes) baroque resort. Lizzies ol the Field 
:sPORTS,
Billie Bivan stars in an auto race turned demolition derby. AprilS 
Laughing Gas and The Pawnshop Antonio 0.. Mortea, Dlfected by Glauber Rocha, Brazil. Charlie Chaplin and the early Keystone crew romp and 1969 (1 00 minutes) roughhouse. The half-fable and half-political allegory of a hlfed killer who The Playhouse and Sherlock Jr., 1924 roams the Brazilian countrySide in a film that fuses native folktale 
Buster Keaton reeling in some of the most startling special ef­ana music w1th political rage. 
!wRITERS
fects in Silent comedy. April 79 (9:00) February 8 
Klnga of the Road, Dlfected by Wim Wender. West 
I 
come to a meeting of ALL
Pllndora'a Box, Dlfected by G. w. Pabst, Germany, 1928 Germany, 1976 (1 76 minutes} (11 0 minutes) A mov1ehouse techmcian and a child psychologist travel across A remarkably modern pertrait of sexual power and destruc­rural Germany in this uncompromising and rewarding examma­tiveness in one of the most striking works of the German silent tion of landscape, friendship and history. 
SPORTS WRITERS 
cinema. 
Apr~l26 
February 15 

Radio On, Directed by Christopher Petit. Great Bntain, 
Monday at 6:30pm.
The Man with the Movie Canter~~, Directed by 1979 (1 01 m1nutes) 
Dziga Vertov, USSR, t929 (67 minutes) With a spare psychological thriller plot set aga1nst music by Both a Utopian representation of da1ly life in a Soviet city and a David Bow1e, lan Dury. Wreckless Eric and Kraftwerk, this is an pointed and witty analys1s of filmmaking as pOlitical art. ambitious jo1mng of Hollywood, the New German Cinema and 
new wave music to the E•glish soc1a1 and physical landscape. 
February 22 

The Blue Angel, Directed by Josef von Sternberg, 
Germany. 1929 (112 minutes) Marlene Dietnch became a star in th1s adaptation of He1nr1ch Mann's novel about the destruction of a proper schoolmaster at 
It's not too late to subscribe 
the hands of a barroom singer. 
March 1 

The Rulea of the Game, Directed by Jean Renoir, 
France. 1939 (11 0 minutes) Th1s pre-War French film portrays a teetenng aristocracy in a fascinating mixture of tragedy and farce. 
7 days a week for 
I 

_.............................. 







--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~--------------------------------~---------------­
The Observer -_~--=-==----o============== 
===~=··-·--·--­

Friday,January 15,1982--page 1 I 
Weekend .... 
Molarity WfuDH£ TO 50CIOL04Y YOU WILL B~ R£'QUIREP ''SEXUALITY IN Al-fE~ICA" TO ~B'SC/'l,l[¢ il)''PU,Yl$0(* DUIIINC.. Till? SE.H!'5TI::~ WE AND "P£NJ1tlli.SE' HJi.AZINE5 I.Jit.L !>TtiPY 6E'XUAL Ho~~ 1~ n1J.7 cw~:_£~~ WllA.1"? /' Simon IN WRR5RW, HE l.DDKED WORN AND llRED. I MfT WALESfl HIS (,Rl£ WAS tollED WlfH SADN£5.')LE(H WALE~! flON WA:i HE? The Daily Crossword ©1981 by Chicago Tribune-N.Y. News Synd. Inc. All Rights Reserved  Michael Molinelli ADDI 71DNAL RE:IIDINC, H41ERML IJf' WILL AL!>O HAVE SPECIAL WILl BE" O~F OF Tlll5 L-IS/ 5CF,£HJ/NgS OF A WIPE:: OF ),CK/JDI./LE()C.£0 SHUTIY VARIETY OF PoRNO!itRAA11C 13001<.5 FIL-HS 'jou'r<.t. t:::,v,Pt'l-'1 I ~~~~~~L7 / !'MOOING IT 50MY50N CAN 5TAY IN CfJ/J.l':6C.. f )eb Cashin 50 I TOlD HIM HE f\1\D MAD£ I'M NOT .SU~E .. THE CDVER' Df TIME /\~ c MI\N H£ Dl Dtn ~EM m ... UNDER5TANDOF THE YEIIR' DID 11 CJIW? \ MRYBE ~E JX)ESN•r \HIT'! UP? SLJB)C.RIBE I I ACROSS 28 Sour, as 55 Succotash 25 Give back 1 Stew milk beans money 5 Pacific 30 Spigot 56 Sacred 26 Pertaining Islander 33 Expel Egyptian to sheep 10 Ham's 34 Bristle bull 27 Formal relative 35 Trig term 58 Maleficent opinions 14 Egad,e.g. 36 Top dog? 59 Maiden name 28 Titter 15 "Wozzeck" 39 Kelep and in tennis 29 Beehive composer anal 60 Bigfoot's state Berg 40 Regrets counterpart natives 16 Unearthly 41 Spring 61 Existed 30 Name 17 Handed or blossom 62 Causes 31 Lend-faced 42 Voice vote togo 32 Senator 18 Supporting 43 Sailing 63 Cinch from Ill· beam maneuver inois 19 Tease 44 Napa Valley DOWN 34 Ticket end 20 Top banana? sight 1 Watch 35 Demonsof 23 Bakery item 45-Mahal attachment the deep 24 Disparity 46 Tor 2 Chancellor 37 Mexican 25 "The Kiss" 47 The tops of Austria beans and "The 54 Essayist 3 Raisond'­38 Sacro·­Thinker" Charles 4 Hayseed's 43 Preserve milieux 44 Takes by 5 Barbara and forceThursday's Solution Houlihan 45 Lay aside 6 Skyward 46 Garden PALO.DEBARICL I p 7 Biog. of a greensALEA.OPERA RAGA sort 47 Ball of JJJ. F F R E Y C H A U C E R 8 Roseola, yarn E E N • U S E S••M E AMES.SPIT ''' e.g. 48 Great 9 Not frac· reviewF I L L E T • S H 0 0 ~.¥-~~ 0 M 0 0-A K I S S AN A tiona I 49 Eastern ~~ERBURYTAf'fS 10 Scheme potentate S A B L E-N E A T 11 Felled 50 Take-K I E L. M AIN T L E 12 Skater (rest) INY.BASE-Heiden 51 Feds S W A R M-C U S P. F A D 13 Legend 52 Candid WI FE~FBATHSTALE 21 Somuch, 53 Plant fiber ALAN ORATE.AIDE in music 57 Take a tiny PERT BONED.GLAD 22 Taboo tot of tea  Campus Friday,Jan. 15 •7 p.m. -Auditions, ND/SMC Theatre Spring Season, Washington Hall, All are invited, No ex­perience necessary •7, 9 p.m. -Film, Arthur, Carroll Hall, Saint Mary's College, Sponsored by Student Activities Programming Board, S I admission •7:30 p.m. -Hockey, Notre Dame at Michigan Saturday,Jan. 16 • 10:45 a.m. -Meeting, Volunteer Services, Memorial Ubrary Auditorium •I :30 p.m. -Basketball, Notre Dame Men vs. Davidson, ACC •I:30 p.m. -Hockey, Notre Dame at Michigan •7, 9 p.m. -FUm, Arthur, Carroll Hall, Saint Mary's College, Sponsored by Student Activities Programming Board, $I admission Sunday,Jan.17 •I · 4 p.m. -Exhibit Opening, "Harlem Docu· ment", Aaron Siskind, Snite Museum ofArt •I :30 p.m. -Swimming, Notre Dame vs. Cleveland State, Rockne Memorial Pool • 2 p.m. -Mass, Mass with Emmaus, Community with the Mentally Handicapped, Moreau Seminary, All interested arc invited •4 p.m. -Basketball, Notre Dame Women vs. Southern Methodist, ACC •7:30 p.m. -Meeting, Urban Plunge, Memorial Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Center for Ex­periential Learning Television Tonight 7p.m. 16 MASH 22 CBS News 28 Joker's Wild 34 The MacNeli/Lt·hrer Repon 46 In Touch 7:30p.m. 16 All in th<· Family 22 Family Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 8p.m. 16 NBC Magazine 22 Dukes of Hazzard 28 Benson 34 Washington W<·ek In R<·view 46 Lester Sumrall Teaching 8:30p.m. 28 Bosom Buddies 34 Wall Street Week 46 The Renewed Mind 9p.m. 16 Mclain's Law 22 Dallas 28 Darkroom 34 Creativity with Bill Moyers 46 Today with Lester Sumrall 9:30p.m. 34 Inside Story lOp.m. 16 The Devlin Connection 22 Falcon Crest 28 Strike Force 34 Martin Luther King, Jr. Birthday Spe· ciaI 46 Jimmy Swaggart Weekly 1lp.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 The Dick Cav<'ll Show 46 Praise the Lord 11:30p.m. 16 Tonight Show 22 Behind The Screen 28 ABC News Nightline 34 Captioned ABC News 12a.m. 28 Saturday Night Live 46 Lester Sumrall Teaching !2:30a.m. 16 SCTV Comedy Network 46 The Renewed Mind  


r---------------------,
ttThe Best That You Can Do'' 
: welcome sack :
Tonight at 9:30 is see 
t to the : 
: t 
t t 
t 

thiS W€€k€n0
t 

op€n ~RJ. &Sat. 9:30-2:00
t_ 



r . , 
Friday,January 15, 1982-page 12 
S}>orts 
leers look to keep up their momentum 

By MICHAEL OLENIK 
Sports Writer 

The second halfofwhat has been a roller coaster season for the Notre Dame begins at Yost Arena in Ann Arbor tonight as the Irish take on the ninth-ranked Michigan Wolverines. 
With the Great Lakes Invitational Tournament trophy tucked under their belts, the Irish are optimistical­ly approaching an assault on the top of the CCHA standings. However, Michigan will undoubtedly keep the 6-2 tournament defeat at the hands of Notre Dame in mind as they at­
tempt to strengthen their hold on third place. 
Lefty Smith, meanwhile, has the task of erasing an inconsistent per­formance last week from the minds of his players. In that series with Chicago Circle, Notre Dame posted 
an 8-3 victory Friday night before
Notre Dame's hockey team is blessed with two the recent Great Lakes Tournament, has reduced 
blowing 5-2 lead and eventually mance ofDave Laurion, who was named MVP of backup. (photo byjohn Macor) losing 8-7 in Saturday's contest. "For the most part, I was quite pleased with the way we played over the holidays," reasoned the 14-year 
talented goalies. But the outstanding perfor­Bob McNamara's role to thpt of a very talented 
For Irish coach. "We didn't play well Saturday night, but our 8-3 win over Circle on 
break 
Friday and our Great Lakes-Cham-:­
Tourney win highlights hockey 
By MICHAEL OLENIK 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's hockey team took it 
upon themselves to bring in the 
New Year the right way by storming 
the joe Louis Arena in Detroit on 
December 29 and 30 and walking 
away with the biggest win in the his­
tory ofIrish hockey. 
In fact, this year's edition of the Great Lakes Invitational Tournamet was hailed as one of the most sig­nificant advances in collegiate hock­ey ever, as a record crowd of 19,255 saw a championship game that al­most resembled the United States Olympic victory nearly two years ago. 
Suprising virtually all who looked on, the underdog Irish trimmed Michigan Tech 4-3 in the champion­ship game and thereby earned the trophy for the most prestigious tournament in collegiate hockey. 
Fittingly, it was Detroit-native Jeff Logan who scored the game winner at 9:07 of the third period, and the Irish had secured a win that will not soon be forgotten. 
"This win was very important to us," commented Coach Lefty Smith after the emotional victory. "There 
((This win was very im­portant to us. There is no doubt that it will give us momentumfor the rest oftheyear., 
is no doubt that it will give us excel­lent momentum for the rest of the year.· Its always nice to win whether you're playing pool or playing cards with your wife." 
It was obvious that the Irish were not in town to play cards however, as they fought from a 2-0 deficit to finally overcome a hot Michigan Tech team that had won the tourna­ment in each of the preceding five years. 
Tournament Most Valuable Player 
Dave Laurion once again proved to 
be the key to the victory, as he kept 
the Huskies at bay for the remaining 
10 minutes enroute to a 22 save per­
formance. Needless to say, the 
semor  goaltender  couldn't  do  it  
without  the  help  of his  blueline  
corps.  

john Schmidt was outstanding in the defensive zone throughout the game, as is evidenced by the Player­of-the-Game award and All­Tournament honors he received after the contest. Schmidt led by ex­ample at the times it was most needed, and it was probably the best performance from a defense much­maligned throughout the year. 
Scoring for the Irish were Brent Chapman, Bill Rothstein, and Dave Poulin -three big contributors for the Irish as of late. Poulin has been especially effective, netting I 0 goals in his last eight games. 
The Irish earned the right to face Michigan Tech by pounding Michi­gan 6-2 in the semi-final game the previus night before 14,589 spec­
tators. The win featured scores from fives different people, including two from John Higgins as Notre Dame staked itself to a 5-1 lead with only six minutes to go. Michigan took advantage of a 
power play opportunity four minutes later, but the writing was al­ready on the wall and the Irish skated on to Michigan Tech and 
ESPN's cameras for the finale. 
Undoubtedly, the most important essence ofthe victory in Detroit was the fact that Notre Dame proved it belonged, and that pressure might even work to their advantage. It will be interesting to see if the wins can become even more significant as the Irish attempt to climb back into the CCHA leadership race in the second half of the season, or if the victories were a fleeting brush with glory that will leave them no bett er off. 
Men return horne 
after tough trip ... 
By SKIP DESJARDIN 
Sports Editor 

The Notre Dame basketball team 
returns to its home court tomorrow 
after a disastrous road trip, and with­
out its third leading scorer. 

Swingman Tom Sluby was 
declared academically ineligible to 
compete this semester after accru­
ing only a 1.8 grade-point average in 
the first semester. Ironically, the 
grades were high enough for Sluby 
to continue playing under NCAA 
regulations, which require only a 1.8 
GPA. Notre Dame however, main­
tains higher standards, and requires 
a student athlete to attain a 2.0 GPA 
in order to play. 

"I agree with the University's stan­
dards, and I think all schools should 
adopt the same rules," says Digger 
Phelps. "Education is more impor­
tant to these players than basketball 
will ever be." 

The 6-4 sophomore will not be able to return to action until the fall of 1982. The loss leaves the Irish with just seven scholaship athletes on a team the is off to its worst start in 60 years. 
Tomorrow they take on Davidson 
in a game at 1:30 p.m. in the ACC. 
The Wildcats are led by sopho­more swingman Kenny Wilson, a 16 
p.p.g. 
scorer, and ClifTribus, a junior forward who scores more than 1 5 

p.p.g. 
and pulls down nearly six rebounds. 


Tribus, a high school teammate of former Irih standout Kelly Tripucka in Essex Fells, N.j., came up with a last second shot to beat Duke in that school's own tournament last week. He also played a key role in Wildcat wins over Furman and West Carolina. As a result, he was named Southern Conference player of the week. 
"Cliff has come into his own in the last few games," says Wildcat Coach Bobby Hussey. "He's always been a good shhoter, but now he's playing defense and getting rebounds. It's partly a matter ofconfidence." 
Davidson has never beaten Notre 

Dame, despite eight tries. They are 
confident that this could finally be 
the year for them to pull off what 
they would consider to be, despite 
the disappointing 2-9 record of the 
Irish, an upset. 
·"We have to take each game at a time," said Phelps after his team's 
See MEN, page 9 

pionship victory showed the kind of hockey we are capable of playing. Especially in the Great Lakes tourna­
ment, I think our kids learned that they can play with the best teams in the country." 
Without doubt, Michigan is one of those teams. The Wolverines boast the stingiest defense in the league having given up only 39 goals in 16 
games. The primary reason is Peter 
Mason, a junior netn.inder who 
shows a 2.15 g.a.a. and a 6-2-1 
record. In fact, Mason is leading the 
nation with that statistic, and he will 
want to show the Irish that their five­
goal output against him in the Great 
Lakes tourney was nothing but a 
fluke. 

Mason is more than adequately 
backed byJon Elliot, a freshman who 
has a 2. 50 g.a.a. and is improving 
with experience. 

Probably the biggest factor be­
hind Michigan's reluctance to give up goals is their defense. The blueline corps averages 200 pounds per man -a fact that is even more troublesome in light of their speed and agility. Steve Richmond provides the leadership this highly touted group, as he is already Michi­gan's all-time leading scorer at his position. 
Richmond is joined by Brian Lun­berg, Mark Perry, and Dave Richter on the blueline, and Coach John Giordano knows there is little to worry about when any number of them are playing their game. 
On the other hand, it is Notre 
Dame's offense that provides Smith 
with satisfaction, as his team has 
piled up 46 goals in the last eight 
games. Not suprisingly, the senior 
line is leading the way during this 
scoring binge, with Dave Poulin the 
hottest of any. Poulin now has col­
lected 13 goals after a slow start in 
that department, and has a total of30 
points on the season. 
Bill Rothstein and Jeff Perry have 
carried more than their share thus 
far, as they have compiled 30 and 29 
points respectively. They are tied 
with each other for goal scoring 
leadership with 15 apiece. 
On the other end ofthe rink, Dave 
Laurion continues to show what 
makes him one of the most highly­
regarded goalies in the league. With 
a goals against averages that regis­
ters at 3.63, Laurion is quickly find­
ing himself to be the cornerstone of 
this team. His 428 saves lead the 
conference also, so Bob McNamara 
is waiting in the wings ifLaurion gets 
too shell-shocked. 
On the blueline, John Schmidt is 
beginning to provide the leadership 
that Smith.so desperately needs for 
his relatively young group of defen­
semen, while Jim Brown and joe 
Bowie are combining some steady 
offensive and defensive play. 
In all, Smith and his squad know 
that Michigan will be gunning for 
revenge, but t they also know they 
have handled the gunfire before and 
hope to prove that they can do it 
again. 

... while UJornen 
keep right on rolling 
By DAVE DZIEDZIC 
Sports Writer 

Even though her squad has just completed a very successful road trip, Notre Dame women's basket­ball Coach Mary DiStanislao says it will be "back to fundamentals" for the Irish as they return home to face Southern Methodist this Sunday at 4 
p.m. in the ACC. 

Notre Dame won four out of five games over semester vacation, including an impressive win over highly-touted Missouri and gaining the championship ofthe Dial Classic in Minneapolis. But the Irish had to overcome a lackluster performance to defeat St. Francis Wednesday night injoliet, Ill., 61-57. 
"St. Francis deserved to win ­they played very well," DiStanislao said following the game. "We were able to win because we just happen to have a little more talent than they do. They are a very scrappy team." 
The Irish, trailing by eight points with only eight minutes remaining, went on a 19-7 scoring spun to take the lead. But the Saints never gave up, and the Irish were hard-pressed to hold the lead. 
"St. Francis utilized an impressive pressing defense. We are bigger than they are, but they did an excellent job ofcontaining us." 
A pressing defense is one thing DiStanislao expects to see from SMU on Sunday. "A lot of people think we're vulnerable to the press. We're going to work hard to combat this." 
The SMU Lady Mustangs enter the ACC with a record of7-8. They have lost six out of their last seven, including drubbings by Arkansas (76-59)and Texas(80-54). 
"They're having a rough time right now," DiStanislao says, "but they are a volatile team. They can ex­plode at any time." 
See WOMEN, page 10 
Inside: Devinep. 8 149ersp. 9 Trackp.lO SMC hoopsp. 9 




