

See OUTLOOK, page 11
Hunley a fair weatherfoe ,,,' 
A South Bend snowstorm sent Arizona's leading tackler to Tucson --to stay 
VOL. XVII, NO. .W 
By DUUG ~F.AD 
Sports Editor 
Arizona Daily Wildcat 
Tt:CSON, Ariz. If it wasn't for· bad weather in South ~end three winters ago, Ricky Hunley might he pia:. ing for the Notre Dame Fighting Irish Instead. he headed west for warmer weatht ·-and the University of Arizona. 
Hunley, a high!~ · ruited linebacker out of Petersburg. Va., :, _ pl.!llned to make a recruiting visit to 1\.otre Dame, but when a snow storm hit, h<-delayed his visit and changed his travel :>lans for Tucson, where the LTA campus is lo• .Jted. 
"Everybody thought it was the ultimate being recruited by :\utre Dame,." Hunley said ofhis friends and nei~hbor,. "When the coach from Notre Dame (then Dan Devine) came down, everybody was all excited. They wanted me to go to Notre Dame." 
But when Hunley stepped off the plane in Tucson, the sun was shining and ther was no snow on the ground. He cancelled the Notre Dame trip and announced he was going to Arizona. 
The weather was not the only factor in his coming to Arizona, though. He was also in­terested in playing baseball in the spring, and Arizona was willing to let him play both sports. The Pittsburgh Pirates drafted him in the 26th round and invited him to Florida for a week to work out with the Rookie League. But when only S6,000 was offered as a signing bonus, Hunley said, "Show me the way to the 

Mike johnston 
airport 

After two jayvee campaigns in baseball. Hunley felt he probably would not play b;u,eball this year. Football ha~ taken the front seat and ba~eball ha~ been set aside. 
"I didn't have a ba~eball scholarship." Hun­ley said, "but they gave me the chance to work my way up from the bottom like everybody else. It would take a lot of overtime and dedication on my part to make it." 
The effort Hunley could have put into baseball was put into football. As a freshman, Hunley earned a starting spot midway through the season anti finished second on the team in defensive points. He was named the Pac-1 O's Player of the Week in liA's upset vic­tory over UCLA and was selected to Football News and Blue Chip Magazine freshman All· America first teams. 
Having never lifted weights, Hunley hit the weight room in the off-season with such fer­vor that he soon became one of the strongest players on the team. The improvement con­tinued his sophomore year when he led the team in defensive points en route to con­ference honors, but he said he was surprised when he was named honorable mention All­America. 
"Everybody has dreams of being All­American in college and high school," he said. "I remember when I was in high school, I could foresee it, it was something I wanted. But you start thinking in numbers of how many people in the country that play high 
See HUNLEY, page 11 Ricky Hunley 
SATL'RDA Y, OCTOBER 16, 1982 

~ s 
fiJohnstongoesfor field goal 
record as Irish take on Arizona 
By ED KONRADY 
Sports Writer 

"This will be our toughest game ofthe season" 
-Gerry Faust 

This is the fifth straight week that Faust has said this, but Saturday against Arizona, he might just be correct. Why? 
•Arizona's 
1-2-1 record is misleading. They lost to the number one team in the nation, Washington, (whom they outscored 13-3 in the second half) and were tied in the last seconds by UCLA. 

• 
Arizona is known for their upsets on the road. In 1980, they defeated UCLA at Los Angeles and the following year they repeated themselves at the Coliseum against USC. 

•Notre 
Dame is coming off an emotional win against Miami, and to face a 1-2-1 team could prove fertile ground for a mental letdown. 

•Arizona 
has out-rushed their opponents this season. 

•Arizona 
has out-scored their opponents this season. 

• 
Arizona has more passing yardage than their opponents this season. 

• 
Arizona has more interceptions than their opponents this season. 

•Arizona 
has more pass receptions than their opponents this season. 




Yes, this may just become the toughest game ofthe season. 
Notre Dame is having its problems offensively. Kicker Mike Johnston has been the salvation week after week. This weekend, the senior walk-on from Rochester, N.Y., will be going after an all-time Irish record -10 straight successful field goals. His next three-point.:r will tie the record. 
The Wildcat offense is a potent one, led by junior quarterback Tom Tun­nicliffe. Last week against UCLA, Tunnicliffe passed for 1""'8 yards. So far this year, he has hit 64 of 114 passes for 795 yards and five touchdowns. 



The Irish Extra -Arizona 
Thayer's place in histor 
Notre Dame's versatile linemanwrite his own chapter in Irish grid lore 
By LOUIE SOMOGYI 
Sports Writer 
Last week's Miami game left its impacts on Notre Dame senior strong-g•.1ard Tom Thayer in three ways. 
First, it marked the fourth different position (center) that the Joliet, Illinois native has played in his four-year career -a feat seldom, if ever, paralleled in Notre Dame football his­tory. After lettering as a defensive tackle his freshman year, the 6-5 268-pound Thayer, who bench presses 450-pounds, has al­ternated a;. playing offensive guard and tackle before being switched over to center against the Hurricanes because of Mark Fischer's in­jury. ' Secondly, it guaranteed him a place in Notre Dame historical lore -in the chapter on courage and faith. 
Years from now, Notre Dame alumni and subway alumni will probably still be retelling this story. 
"Hey Thayer," Miami's nose guard Tony Fitzpatrick yelled. Notre Dame had turned the ball over with 2:58 reamining in the game and trailing 14-1 3­
"It's over," he grinned. "ll's all over. You guys are nothing." Thayer turned, with a grin ofhis own. "This is Notre Dame," he said. "It's never over." 
The two headed to the sidelines ­Fitzpatrick laughing heartily at Thayer's state­ment. 
"After we got the ball back and Phil (Carter) took that screen pass for 25-yards, I looked over at Fitzpatrick and told him 'Here we come,"' recalls Thayer with a laugh. "He just started shaking his head in disbelief" 
Ofcourse, Notre Dame went on to win 16­14. That victory was the third and most significant happening for Thayer in the game. Ironically, though, the triumph has left him a little confused. 
"We earn a tremendous win over a great football team, and the thing we hear most is how inconsistent and conservative our of­fense is," he says. 
Indeed, the offense has come under fire in the last two weeks. Scoring only one touch­down (that on an 11-yard drive) in the last 
. ~ two games can do that to you. "We've had some errors and tough breaks," Thayer admits of the offense, "But when we needed to, we wore down all four teams we played this year in the second half. We believe in ourselves. There wasn't anybody in our huddle in that final drive against Miami that didn't believe we wouldn't win." 
. Nevertheless, the first four games of this season are ominously similar to the first four games of 19.80. That team also started out 4-0 by defeating the exact four teams which the team has defeated this year. Later that year, the predictable, conservative offense seemed to fold -scoring only five touchdowns in the last five games, and winning only two ofthose games. 
Playing teams ·like Pittsburgh, Penn State and Southern Cal in three of the final four games can lead one to believe that the conser­vatism will eventually catch up with the Irish -the way it did in 1980. 
Not so, says Thayer. 

"First ofall, none of us could care less who we are playing later on," he says. "Arizona is a darn good football team in its own right. The fact that they will be playing Notre Dame will make them all the more better. 
"Secondly, there is a big difference between this team and the one in 1980. That was a very young and somewhat immature team ( 14 of the 22 regulars by the end of the year were either sophomores or freshman). 
"We were good (with a 9-2-1 finish) and close as a team. But when a lot of us younger players that year needed to be, or wanted to be, leaders, we didn't step forward because we were afraid that the older guys wouldn't respect us as much. 
"This year we're not only experienced seniors or juniors, but we have everyone speak their own peace in the huddle or on the sideline-and we respect it." 
Thayer bubbles with confidence when he 
speaks ofthis year's team and its chances for a 
national championship, and he becomes 
agitated when people feel that such talk after a 
5-6 season is a sure sign ofa swelling head. 
· "We are not getting the big head," he 
stresses,. "We don't have time to get the big 
head. I bet ifyou were to ask every member of 
the team what the score in just last week's 
game was, half of them wouldn't know. We 
were happy and celebrated after the Miami 
game, but by Sunday afternoon the only thing 
we were talking about was Arizona. 
"We're taking one game at a time. We're not 
playing any mind games and "what ifs" with 
the future. We've built such a good thing for 
ourselves so far this year that we realize it 
would be a shame to throw it all away. If you 
had seen our practices this week you would 
know that we're not satisfied just because 
we're 4-0. The intensity has just been great." 
The new position is perhaps most ap­poropriate for Thayer. Whether it's rebutting criticism of the offense, knocking opposing defenders over backwards, orstandint g up for the Notre Dame tradition when others sneer at it, he is a man that commands attention; and is one who will always be the "center" ofit. 
'\ 
\ 
\ 
·., 
"' ' 
Tom Thayer 

Backfield Battle 
Kiel an·d Tunnicliffe.reunited
• ! . ·. • 
after freshm.an match-up 
BySKIP DESJARDIN ''It'~ a ¢oncern anytime you can't punch the Sports EditorEmeritus ball• irito the end zone," he admits. "But our goal is to getpoints on the board when we get · . . · · inside the 50-yard line, and we've been doing
It has always been the quarterbacks -if that... 
you can justifiably call the two pre.violJ4i 1 meetings berween Notre Dame and Arizona "always." 
In 1941, Johnny Lujack made the first start ofhis career against the Wildcats, and the Irish won, 38-7. 
In 1980, Tim Tunnicliffe made the first start of his career against the Irish, and Blair Kiel had one of the.best nights of his career as the two teams squared off for the second time. 
This weekend, Kiel and Tunnicliffe will again be the starters. But things will be some­what different this time. 
Since that warm October night in Tucson, Tutinicliffe has gone on to an outstanding career. He is now the second leading passer in Arizona history. Time and again, he has come up with his best performances against the toughest teams. Last season, he completed 21 of his 3 7 passes -good for 293 yards -in a 13-10 upset ofNo. !-ranked Southern Cal. The previous year, he hit 12 of 18 for 21 7 yards en route to an upset of No. 2 UCLA, 23-1 7. 
Kiel, who ran 80 yards with a fake punt to break the 1980 game wide open, has not been as succesful. Whereas Tunnicliffe won his starting job outright, Kiel was forced to battle for his with Mike Courey and, later, Tim Koegel. Until this season, he had not come close to the success he found that night in the desert. 
This weekend, both junior quarterbacks are coming off big games. Tunnicliffe threw for 178 yards in the Wildcats' surprise tie with ninth-ranked UCLA. Kiel had his best day, in terms of percentage, since the last time he faced Arizona. Against Miami he completed more passes ( 21-33) than ever before, for 16 7 yards. 
"We have got to get more consistent," Coach' Gerry Faust says of his Irish. "We've been running well at times, and passing well, too. But we have to put both together, and come up with sustained drives. 
"I think our otknse really proved some· thing in that winning drive against Miami. 
That was the fist time all year \\'e l\·ere behind, 
and Icouldn't have been happier with the wav we rose to the challenge." · But Faust is still worried about his team's inability to get the ball into the end zone. Last 
'week Kiel rolled out for a touchdown. but on­ly after a Miami fumble gave the Notre Dame the ball on the Hurricane 11-yard line. 
W,ild.cat Coach Larry Smith is pleased with his club's progress so far. 
"We are a young team," he says. "But we have good experience in our front line people. We played well in all aspects of the game last week. 
"But we can't go into Notre Dame thinking about how we could have beaten UCLA, or we'll get waxed." 
Both quarterbacks have talented people be­hind them. "Phil Carter is a great running back," Smith says. "The whole team is big and strong. Notre Dame is just a very fine football team." 
Carter, who moved into fifth place on the all-time Irish rushing list last week, came alive in the fourth quarter -particularly in the winning drive. He still is not picking up a lot of yards on each carry, but he is getting the ball on over half the Notre Dame running plays. 
Tun·nicliffe has Vance Johnson, one of last 

season's top freshman, behind him. Put simp­
ly, Johnson does it all. He's rushed for 192 
yards this season, despite missing the Wash­
ington and UCLA games. A tough pass­
catching threat, Johnson also ranks secoind in 
the country .in kickoff returns, and 14th in all­
purpose running at 130.3 yards per game. 
The freshman AII-Ameican is the key to a 

speedy offensive attack. 
''He's one of the best all-around runners in 

the country," says Faust. "And Tunnicliffe has 
inatured into a fine all-around quarterback. 
The two will be tough to beat:" 
The Wildcats are a tough road team, as 

they've shown time and again. This week will 
be no different. 
Though most would see last week's game as 

a moral victory for Arizona, Smith is not one of 
them. 
"I'm very disappointed," he says. "We had a 

great victory snatched from our hands. UCLA 
tied us, we didn't tie them." 
The Wildcats pulled off that surprise be­

cause of Tunnicliffe, but without Johnson. 
That wiU make tham that much tougher thb 
weekend. 
The Irish meanwhile, have been struggling 

somewhat offensively -despite fine in­
dividual performances from Kiel and Carter. 
Those four men should combine to make 

this the most exciting, and the closest, of any 
in this series to date. 
Tom Tunnicliffe 
,Rallyphotos -page 4
' ' 



Sidney Harman responds to a question during The session was held yesterday afternoon in his workshop, "What Happened to Work Ethic." O'Shaughnessy Hall. (Photo by Diane Butler) 
Administrative matters 
Regents refer parietals decision 
the ind~.:pnHknt ~tudnll nt·w~paper 'lT\·ing notre danll' and ~aint mary·~ SATURDAY, OCTOBER 16,1982-PAGE 3 
Police fire_tear gas at Polish mourners 
through Thursday, 5 to 10 p.m. 
Duggan said the new parietals will be implemented on an experimental basis after all preparations are com­plete. He stressed the need to make policy provisions for those students who are not in favor of weekday parietals. 
Duggan said the College will send letters to parents explaining the policy change. 
In other matters, the Board of Regents approved the budget for the renovating the former College Library into a student center. Plans for the center were finalized at the Board meeting last spring and bids are now being accepted for the renovation work. The facility is 
scheduled to to open next fall. 
Duggan said the Board also en­dorsed the appointment of a com­mittee to come up with a "workable figure" for a planned expansion to the Science Hall. 
Engineering Library tnoves to Fitzpatrick 
WARSAW, Poland (AP) -Riot police fired tear gas, water cannons and flares yesterday at 1,000 defiant Pole-; who emerged from a church in Nowa Huta chanting "Solidarity!" and "The army is with us!" It was the third straight night ofstreet violence in the Krakow Sl;!burb. 
Witnesses said the fighting broke out after the crowd, which had prayed in memory of a young worker shot down Wednesday on the first night of disturbances, left the St. Mary Queen of Poland church in the steelmaking suburb. 
The smell oftear gas from the pre­vious fighting still hung over the city and streets were littered with rocks, broken barricades and torn-up street car rails from rioting Thursday night. 
The witnesses, who have been reliable in the past, said police had encircled the square outside the church, leaving the crowd no avenue of escape, and advanced firing tear gas and water as they chanted the name of the banned in­dependent union. 
A person reached by telephone at the church only would say, "The ac­tion is going on." The telephone connection was then cut off, but communication lines appeared to be working. 
The street fighting was the latest in a series of anti-government protests stemming from the outlaw­ing last Friday of Solidarity, the first union in the Soviet bloc free ofCom­munist Party control. 
Riots erupted in Gdansk on Mon­day and Tuesday, and spread to Wroclaw and Nowa Huta on Wed­nesday, when a plainclothesman shot Bodgan Wlosik. who died Thursday. 
On Thursday evening, security forces tear-gassed small knots of people mourning Wlosik outside the St. Mary Queen of Poland church, and riots continued until early Friday. 
Witnesses said some ofthe rioters had tried to destroy a large metal statue of V.I. Lennin, founder of the Soviet state, outside the steel works during the violence. 
Official sources said workers in some departments of the steel plant had stopped work yesterday to dis­cuss a strike to protest the killing of Wlosik and rejected the idea. 
Wlosik was the first worker to die in the latest spate of rioting and strikes in Poland, which has been torn by upheaval since Solidarity's founding in the summer of 1980. The union was suspended and mar­tial law imposed Dec. 13. 
The state-run media has blamed the protests and riots on hooligans, youths and agitators im;pired by leaders ofthe banned union's under­
;round, but Wlosik and 14 others 
illed since maniallaw was imposed 
rere workers. 

By MARGARET FOSMOE 
~saint Mary•'s Executive Editor 
The fate of the revised parietals proposal was turned over to the Ad­ministration at the Board of Regents meeting yesterday at Saint Mary's. 
The Board ruled that parietals hours are an administrative matter and referred the final decision to College President John M. Duggan. 
"I'm going to approve the 
proposal to be on an experimental basis until the end of the year," said Duggan yesterday in response to the Board decision. But Duggan said he would be advised by other members of the administration before finaliz­ing the decision. 
The plan proposes extending the present parietals hours to include the following: Friday, 5 p.m. to 2 a.m.; Saturday, 1 p.m. to 2 a.m.; Sun­day, 1 to 10 p.m.; and Monday 

Senior Barchanges undergradnight 
By BARBARA PITIS 
News Staff 
The Senior-Alumni Club announced yesterday that beginning Nov. 15. the club will be open Monday nights for undergraduates from "7.10 p.m. Sunday night initially had been chosen as the open night for under­graduates, but due to the lack of student response, the club revised the decision. 
"I think Sunday was a mistake," Dean of Students James Roemer said, also pointing out that "traditionally, Sunday is a study night." Kevin Woods, club manager, agreed by stating "People just don't go out on Sunday nights." 
The fact that student turn-out wa~ low is not an indication ofstu· dents' priorities for socializing. Neither Woods or Roemer said the lack ofalcoholic beverages was the reason for the low attendance. "I don't believe it's a deep statement about alcohol," Woods says. "People simply don't know about it yet." 
Notre Dame's Senior-Alumni Club. having a long tradition in the University's history. opened this year with a new face and a new plan added to its character. In addition. undergraduates ·got the oppor­tunity to enjoy the club and its facilities with the club's plan to open one night a weekwithout alcohol. 
The idea was in response to students' complaints concerning lack ofsocial space. l'niversity President Father Theodore Hesburgh sug· gested the plan. which was heartily agreed upon by Vice President for Student Affairs FatherJohn VanWolvlear, Roemer, and Woods. 
~--udent response to the general idea has been favorable, though the attendance for the first night was low. Both Roemer and Woods agreed this wa~ a result of poor communication and a lack of advertising. 
"I just think people didn't know about it until real late," Woods said, hoping more advertisement will generate an interest in the club. I 
Woods believes hall-sponsored events and Student Union ac­tivities held in the clu? will help promote the club's availability. "I 
See CLUB, page 5 
By BOB VONDERHEIDE 
.VewsEditor 
The engineering library will begin another chapter in history Nov. 1 when it completes its move to a new larger room on the first floor of Fitzpatrick Hall. 
The new library, featuring 2,400 
square feet more floor space and 
two and a half times more study 
seats, replaces the old library in Cus­
hing Hall that has served the college 
for 15 years. 
"Our departments have gotten bigger and enrollment continues to increase," Engineering librarian Robert Havlik said Thursday. "We decided we needed a new library." 
The actual decision, however, wa~ made in 1975, Havlik said, and the finishing touches on Fitzpatrick Hall are now being completed. 
"We plan on increasing serial titles and the number of new books purchased, " Havlike said. 
But he added that only books and journals published in the last 1 0 years will be available on the shelves. 
"This represents a change in con­cept to a modern, interdisciplinary engineering library, rather than an archival collection," Havlik said. Al­ready, some .25,000 hound volumes of outdated material are stored in :\-1emorial Library. 
"I hope this change will meet the need for current literature and newer concepts," Havlik said, ad· ding that engineering research demands very recent information, sometimes material publist.ed with­in the last week. 
The architecture firm Ellerbe As­sociates, Inc., renovated the room in Fitzpatrick, located in the hall across from the College Computing Room. 
See LWRARY, page 6 



Saturday, October 16, 1982 -page 4 
By The Obsert•er ami The Associated Press 
A woman fainted at the pep rally last night, but atter quick efforts by rally organizers and a paramedic squad, she recovered a few minutes later. The woman, Mrs. james Austin of Martinsville, Ind., was standing near the stage when she suddenly collapsed duringcoach Gerry Faust's speech. Faust stopped the rally, and paramedics were called into Stepan Center. They carried Austin outside, where she was revived and released into the care of her husband. -The Obseroer 
Pravda issued a stern nyet yesterday to villagers who hold lavish wedding receptions that drag on for days in an orgy of eating and drinking. The Communist Party daily newspaper said the results ofsuch excesses were palsied field hands, hung-over harves­ters and milkmaids unable to do their work. It pleaded for restraint during harvest time. "Nearly every wedding now is a fantastic waste of energy and finances. No one· thinks about the life of the future family, orily about prestige," Pravda lectured. Pravda, mixing a few anecdotes with its lecture, said one rural bash lasted four days and "milkmaids were doing the gopak (Cossack dance) so long that they forgot about their cows. The combine and tractor drivers could not 
start up their machinery because their hands were trembling so 
much from hangovers." -AP 
About 350 Inland Steel Co.workers will be laid 
offbeginning today, and 580 auto workers will be laid off Monday at an Indianapolis General Motors Co. plant. The layoffs at Inland Steel in Burns Harbor were made because the Indiana Harbor Works No. 3 open hearth steelmaking shop is shutting down today, company offi· cials said. Inland Steel spokesman Lou Maravella said the indefinite shutdown is caused by a drop in demand for steel products produced there. GM officials announced Thursday that 580 workers at its World Truck and Bus plant in Indianapolis will be laid off Mon· day, but no further layoffs are planned. The layoffs will affect skilled and non-skilled workers. -AP 
The United Auto Workers opened a second 
round ofcontract talks with Chrysler Corp. yesterday, demanding an immediate wage boost instead of the delayed raise that was. overwhelmingly voted down by the rank-and-tile. Negotiations should end by next Friday "one way or another," said UAW President Dol)glas A. Fraser. "Clearly the Chrysler workers are saying, almost in a single voice, that they want a wage increase up front and that's the way we presented it," Fraser said at a news conference after Friday's bargaining session, which lasted less than an hour. "We did not get into the size" ofthe raise, Fraser said, adding that workers are expecting "a substantial amount" ofmoney. A day earlier he had said a pay raise of more than S I an hour "has a nice ring to it." He said Chrysler officials would respond to the general proposal Monday morning. Chrysler spokesman Charles Scales said the company had no comment. -AP 
Dippingfor the fourth timethis year, prices at 
the wholesale level fell in September at an annual rate of 1 . ..., percent, the government said yesterday from Washington. The new figures meant that, through September, wholesale inflation was running at an annual rate of3.1 percent and raised the possibility the pace for all of this year would be the slowest since the 2.2 percent of 1970. At the same time, the Federal Reserve Board reported that production at the nation's factories was off 0.6 percent last month, the 12th decline in the last 14 months. Economists, heartened by the im­proved price picture, nonetheless largely attributed the declines in both reports to the stifling recession which they said still gripped the economy in September. The price declines were driven by sharp falls in new car and light truck costs and a 0.5 percent drop in food prices, mostly the result of good crop harvests, economists said. President Reagan, though, hailed the slowdown in wholesale infla­tion as another step on the road to economic health. "Bringing down inflation brings down interest rates, which brings hack the economy," he said. -AP 


Faust prot1ided his usual upbeat speech. but said that Arizona would be a tough game. The contest begins at 1:30 today as the Irish (4·0) take on the Wildcats ( 1-2·1). 
The Observer 
1Jesig11 l:.'ditorSuzanne La< .roix 
Desig11 Assistalit.... Tom Small (out of his mind) Tim Nrdy ( mrr~l)' <!~ranged) 
1)•pesetters ............ Bruce & Tom ( wt"nt to 
Bert's) .'Vews Editor ...... ~lark Worscheh (out to lunch) 
ND Day Editor.. Dave Grole (with a mis-
SMC Day Editor..... Candi <;riffin (on the phone) 
Copy Editor.......... (irc:g Swicrcz (in outc:r 
space) 
Etlitorla/s Layout.. ......... Tim Neely (still deranged) Sports Copy Etlitor Rich O'Connor (very strangd AdDesig" Greg Swiercz (in inner space) Pbotogrupber Diane Butler (in the dark) Guest Appeara,ces... Ryan (in th~ trash), 
Fosmoe (in the pink), Monk ( & his magic wand), Cheryl (with magic lingers), Reggie (without a hom~), Dzave (in the smoke). The Law (with empl)' hands) 

AGOSTINO'S Specializing in Prime Bib, Seafood, Steaks and 
hlstle 
servin~ your favorite cocktails. :ltep TAKING RESERVATIONS 
NOW
i02 So. Wllnut 

Take Eddy to Sample, turn right
South ... 
on Walnut.
232-2494 

Banquet rooms available with option to create your own menu. Serving dinner at Spm Mon.· Sat. 

Attorney General William French sniith plans to fly over the Golden Triangle in Thailand and walk through an illegal drug bazaar in the Khyber Pass on a 20-day, round-the-world trip to study drug and refugee problellJS, administration officials disclosed yesterday in Washington. "This is the first time an attorney general has ever made this kind ofa trip," said a high administration official. "The purpose is to emphasize the importance we attach to these 
problems" and thus increase foreign cooperation with the United States. Two officials briefed reporters about the six-nation trip at the Justice Department on the condition they be identified only as "a high administration official" and "an administration official." The trip, which begins Tuesday, will take the 24-person son party to Tokyo, Hong Kong, Thailand, Pakistan, Paris and Rome. -AP 

Dine among the antiques and enjoy our view of the new downtown! 
Reservations Appreciated 234-9000 lll South Niles South Bend 
Mostly cloudytoday and cool with 3o percent chance of showers. High in low to mid 50s. Mostly cloudy tonight and con· tinued cold with a few possible sprinkles early. Lows in the upper 30s to near 40. Tomorrow, partly sunny and cool. High upper 50s to low 6os. -AP 

The Observer 1USPS 598 \1201 " published Monday !hnrugh Fr<day and on home football Satur<1rl ys except dur<ng exam <llld VdLdtiOil per<uas The Observer <5 publ<shea oy me students of Notre Da·ne and Sdlf11 Marys Cui lege Subscnpt<uns •nay be purchased tor S25 per year tS 15 P•'r seme>ten by <vr<l<ng The Observer P 0 Bux 0 Notre Dame lnd,ana 46556 
The Observer " " ·n,>·nt:>e< ,d The Associated Press Arl rPpr , 1u! l!~·ll r1ghts are resPrvt•d 
Secqnd ··1a<;:,~ ~,1Sidyr> prwl dl r--..1 ifrl' Oc1rnP ln,11..-tfld 4~-:'}::.6 
.. ....'-: ::· .•;-·,... : .:.,:.·.. ~. . ~~ ~ ... .·....:.. . ~ ..·... 
. .... :"' ~~-; :..._i:• -~___··_---~--___ .-~-_--_-~~
• ____
.:-.;· .<·.:·· ---1 
....,.T_h_e_O_b-se-.r-'-\,-e-r-~---.~.-~_._---.-:-:':~:,:::-:-;,-.-:---~----~---Saturday~ October 16, 1982-page 5 ~
__.._---'_'--------:------~-------·---­

A Metropolitan Toronto Police bomb squad of­and severely damaged the Litton .\)•stems Canada. ficial inspects debris yesterday morning after an Ltd. plant. Police say a bomb threrlf hod heen explosion late Thursday night !Ore apart a van made shortZv before the blast (AP Photo) 
In Canada 
Bomb rips nuke parts plant 
TORONTO (AP) Police searched the debris outside a Litton Systems Canada plant yesterday for clues to the identity ofbombers who devastated part of the factory, source of guidance systems for the 
U.S. nuclear cruise mbsile. 
The blaM late Thursday injured four factory workers and three policemen who responded to an anonymou~ telephone warning about the bomb, which had bct·n hidJen in a deliverv van parked oubide the plant in suburban Etobicoke, authorities reported. 
No OJW imm•:diately claimed. rcspon~ibilitv for the attack Litton Svstems Canada_ a sub·· 
•: sidiar\ of Litton Industries ot'Ikv·e·~-. 
• I 
... Club 

continuedfrom page 3 
bdien· it is the id teal facility .for tha.t. kind of social interaction," Roemer· said, and Woods agrees: 'Tm really•.. for this idea." 
Student l 'nion is planning on using the club after October .break to sponsor a hand, The Clones. The date tentatively has been set for Sun­
day, Oct. 31, but Woods is working with the Student Union to change the date to Monday, Nov. 1. 
The new Senior Alumni Club is staffed by 25 members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community. The bar contains three bars, dance floors, a OJ booth, a stage for a band, con­versation "pits," and a game room with pool tables and electronic ly Hills, Calif., has been a focus of ami-nuclear protests in Canada. 
Earlier Thursday, an appeal court ruled that five Litton executives could not he forced to testify at the trial of 22 anti-war activists charged with trespassing on Urton's property last year. 
Defense attorney~ v. anted to call them as witnesse~ in .an attempt to establish the protesters' claim that Litton _was -commirting.. a crime again~! humanitY hv helping build 
. -cruise missile!> and · the d~mon~trators were ju!'>titled m trying 10 ~hut down toc plant One ·p<lliceman and two of tht:" workers hurt in the bla~t remained hospitalized yesterda\·. hut their in· 
: ... 
g;m~s. "It is a beautiful building," Wqods said. "We just want to give them (the swdents) an opportunit}· 
·,to use the facilities." 
N<'> trial period has been set for the ·plan's.· s'uccess or failure. Both Roemer and Woods agreed that they
· 
are. in .no hurry to discontinue the · experiment. Roemer said he is wil­ling to try the plan indefinately. 'Tm sure there's going to be some. use for the Club," he said. Woods conceded there was some 
monetary losses suffered by the club the first Sunday night it was open, but that does not Jeter his optimism for the future. As long as he believes students are enjoying the facilities, Woods said, "I don't necessarily have to make money. I'll break even." 
SUMMER PROGRAMS 

LONOON 
ROME 
Trauel in Ireland Trauel in France 
Scotland &France Germany& Switzerland 
Courses in Art, Business, Education, History, Malian, Music and Philosophy. :-: 1' 
Informational ~' 16 ~~ 
Meeting-Oct.l8 7:00pm ;;
Rm 232 Moreau, SMC t!J· 

for Further Info. Call Prof. A.R. Black 4460 a-272-3726 
juries were not critical, police Con· stable Jack Hobbs reported. 
"The property damage is in the millions," he said. The blast tore off the brick front of the oftlce section ofthe two-story plant. blew out win· U<)W~ in a nearby hotel and damaged ~u~rounding vehicles. 
TheBest Football V\eekends In 
Pittsburgh 
~inWith 
hery touch of Hyatt is inclUded in our new low $39 rate for a Friday,Saturday or Sunday nignt. 
The best weekends in Pitts, bulbh, whether for sports, culture, shopping, or just plain do.ng the town, begin with the Hyatt Pitts­burgh. One reason is that weekend packages at our luxurious down­town hotel begin at just $39 per night, single or double occupancy. Another is that we can arrange your weekend for you, right down to getting tickets and making reserva­tions. Send for all the details in our Pittsburgh Weekend brochure. It's free from Hyatt, where the best weekends in Pittsburgh begin. 
For reservations, call your travel planner, or 800-228-9000 (in Pittsburgh 471-U34). Weekend rates are based on advance reserva­tions, availability, and do not apply to groups or attendees of conven­tions or trade shows. Hyatt Pitts­burgh, 112 Washington Place, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15219. 
HYATT®(!)PITTSBURGH 
AT CHATHAM CENTER 
E.;. .-.... ~ nlwul at ..,..... IWit. ,..••. ~· $17;50 .. .... _,. ~ 
.-...,_aiel. dla TU. 1R
................. 
~· c.I6M~. 
...... 1-116-4555. 
Glasses Broken? 
SAME DAY SERVICE 
*Slass or Plastic Leases 
*SiiQie Visio• or M1ltifocal *:OWer 600 fru~es 
University Center, 6502 Grape Road, Mishawaka, Indiana Phone 219-271-2400-Open Mon.-Fri. 9-9; Sat. 9-5 
~p A\Ulll»i h ~ ~AMP,ROUifi»3SouthB!~J 
The closest campground to Notre Dame 
:.i305 BeU Road 

Modern Niles, Michigan 49120 facilities and hookups Phone-Area Code (616) 684-1393 
r--rrom South len4 'althnic festival·--, 
Spencer's Bibs 
~ .. 
.. .. 
~ Ga~k ~ ! &dA~ t 
.. .. 
.. The Colonial Pancake House .. ~ invites you to en_joy one ofour .. ~ . many breakfast specialties: t 
ie OVEN BAKED APPLE PANCAKES~ ~ AND OMELETTES! ~ 

~ $1 OFF :·t 
~ u~u ~ 
t
tour famous apple pancakes~.~ i 
i 
iC w-~~ • . t I· 
' 
~ U.S. 31 (Dixieway) North in Roseland~ iC open at 6am 7days aweek iC 
.******************. 


.----~----------~-------~~-: ~ 
The Observer 

john Cooper makes a point during his lecture "Aristotle on the Goods ofFortune," delivered yesterday afternoon in the Library Auditorium. The lecture was sponsored by the Philosophy Depart· ment ofNotre Dame. (Photo by Diane Butler) 
Catch Fighting Irish Fever on Mutual Radio 
Join Tony Roberts and AI Wester Saturday, October 16 as the "Fighting Irish" meet Arizona during the 15th consecutive season of national play­by-play broadcasts produced by Mutual Sports, radio's leader in sports broadcasting. 

Larry Michael, Producer of Mutual's weekly show entitled "Quarterback Sneak with with Joe Theismann," interviews 08 Blair Kiel 
Tony Roberts Play-by-play Announcer 
AI Wester 
Color Commentator 
MUTUAL BROADCASTING SYSTEM 
The Leader in Network Radio Sports mJ 

-~-~-~ ~-~-~-~----~~-­
Saturday, October 16, 1982-page 6 
Fierce battle 
Fighting spreads in El Sa.J_vador 
SAN SALVADOR, El Salvador (AP) -Leftist guerrillas and government troops were locked in new tlghting yesterday in central El Salvador and the guerrillas held their ground on two northern fronts despite coun· terattacks from the air and ground. 
The new fighting, coinciding with the third anniversary of the military coup that marks the start ofthe civil war, broke out near Santa Clara, 40 miles east of the capital. A civil defense commander in the nearby town of San Esteban Catarina said there was heavy fighting after rebels ambushed army troops. 
There were no immediate reports ofcasualties. 
In the Chalatenango province in northern El Salvador, the comman­der of a 5,000-troop counterattack claimed 62 to 65 guerrillas were killed in fighting at the town of Las Vueltas. 
The commander, Maj. Armando Aviles, said his troops "continued advancing" in the area, 50 miles north of the capital. He said two sol­diers were killed and four wounded by rebel forces trying to topple the U.S.-backed government 
Official sources said government casualties amounted to 22 dead and 
....-, ~ 
() l J
r·(i~~
·.. HOUSE
I 
RESTAURANT 
15 REASONS: 
Broiled Seafood Platter Charbroiled Halibut Steak Charbroiled Salmon Shrimp De Johnge Charbroiled Swordfish Walleye Pike Red Snapper Trout Ala Mer Stuffed Flounder New England Scrod Rock Lobster Pan Fried Rainbow Trout 
Gulf Coast Shrimp Stuffed Shrimp Pan Fried Frog Legs 
5:30 Nightly All Day Sund1y 1DO Center Complex 
700 L.W.W., MlahiWikl 259-9925 
32 wounded since the Chalatenango operation started Tuesday. The military claims an American-made helicopter crashed in the combat area Wednesday because of mec­hanical failun;, hut the rebels claim they-shot it down. 
The military brought in U.S.­supplied fighter-bombers and helicopter gunships on Wednesday. 
A national guard commander in Chalatenango said rebels continued to hold Las Vueltas. "I wish this was over, hut it's difficult," he said, ask­ing not to be named. "They are well entrenched up there." 
The rebels' underground Radio Venceremos said guerrillas remain in control of the northern towns of 
continuedfrom page 3 

Havlik himselfdesigned the arrange­ment of the library and selected the furniture. 
"It sure don't look like the old place, docs it?" Havlik said. "Everyone was crawling all over everybody (in the old library). It's really going to nice here." 
Collectible Records 
hard to find out of print records 
Lincolnway East and Cedar in Mishawaka 
(5 blocks east of downtown) 
San Fernando, Perquin and Torola in Morazan province, about 120 miles northeast ofSan Salvador. A national guard commander in San Francisco Gotera, the provincial capital, con­firmed the guerrillas remained in control. 
Radio Venceremos claimed guer­rillas were pushing south toward San Francisco Gotera. 
The leftists' radio said the guerril­las also seized the town of San Gerardo in neighboring San Miguel province, and blocked off r<>ads to two other towns in San Miguel. 
The national guard commander in San Francisco Gotera described the fighting as "serious" in three Morazan towns of )ocoaitique, Meanguera and Arambala. 
• • .Library 
Havlik said mat the additional space has allowed him to have more room between shelves with enough space to "easily fit" a wheel chair in the aisle. 
Havlik also hopes to expand the computer capabilities of his library. For two years, the library has been hooked up to a Colorado data in­formation base, Dialog, which provides research bibliographies much faster than manual research methods. 
"The computer literature searches can produce in two hours what used to take a week," Havlik said. There is a service charge, and graduate students and professors primarily use Dialog. 
"We're updating everything," said Havlik, who holds a bachelor's de­gree in chemical engineering and a master's in library science. He said there is "more study space for stu­dents, better research capabilities, and improved general service." 


' .

UftAn IT UR Dri\ing up and Jov. n·the Cl•urtIJVUI"""' • can real!\' take its toll. Espt:CJJ!h on vour feet. · · · · That's whv !\;IKE makes a complete line of bask;•tt·all .;hoes designed for comfort, suppurt and durabilitv. In h1 tops and lo. With hard-gripping outsoles Canvas, mt:"•h 1'r full grain leather uppers. For men, women and chlldren. 
NIKE Basketball Shoes: It's hard to , ~ imagine a better place to dunk vour feet. ~ 
FREE Voit basketball-with purchase of leather basketball shoes ~I.. w While 
quantities last
Scottsdale Mall 

Daily 10-9. Sun.IJ.S ... J91-7565 
University Commons 
6305 St Rd. 23 ·•· 272-7565 
Daily 10-9. Sun.12-5:30 

Editorials 
Saturday, October 16, 1982 page 7 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~/71\~.;.."' "I~ . ·••y''
New book details LBJ's politics 


To most of today's college students, his is just a name out ofhistory books written about the not-too-distant past -the man seen by them as "the guy who got us into Vietnam." 
Skip Desjardin 
On the Media 

But Lyndon Baines Johnson was far more. 
He was, perhaps, the greatest "politician" this 
country has ever known. 
He ran the Democratic Party in the 1950's 
-pushing through Congress a condemnation 
of joseph McCarthy, civil rights legislation, 
and more -despite a Republican president 
and a deeply divided party. He bargained, 
cajoled, threatened, and demanded -and his 
story is being told now by one ofthe men who 
knew him best. 
Lyndon B. johnson: A Memoir is a fascinat­
ing account of johnson's rise to power, and 
the manner by which he became the ultimate 
power broker -President of the United 
States. 
George Reedy was johnson's press 
secretary until the two had a falling out in the 
second year of LB)'s administration. It is 
unlikely that any author could tell the story of 
this incredibly complex man as well as Reedy ·can. 
The book was five years in the making ­but well worth the wait. An anecdotal rather than biographical account of LB)'s career, A Memoir, which was published yesterday (Andrews and McMeel, 512.95), is must reading for college students interested in how America got where it is -and how. 
Reedy has been Nieman Professor ofjour­
nalism at Marquette University since 1972, 
and his reflections on johnwn's relationship 
with the press are particularly interesting. 
As with so many other aspects ofthe world 
aroundJlim, johnson sought to control the 
press. 

"To him," Reedy writes, "newspapers were 
arenas in which contending politicians 
battled for dominance ... This led to some ex­
traordinarily clumsy efforts to revise the rules 
of White House coverage so he could restrict 
the range of journalistic activity." 
LBJ abolished the press "pool" -the group of reporters from various media outlets who traveled with the president on a rotating basis to provide coverage for all in the event of an emergency. He even asked Reedy to "script" a press conference -requiring pre-written questions and answers. He witheld informa­tion, pictures, and privileges from writers he saw as "mean." But those who wrote what LBJ viewed as favorable articles, he showered with favors without end. 
The most frequent favor afforded to friend­
ly writers was a trip around the johnson 
ranch. 

"Generally, they involved the rich resources ofgame in the hill country which he pursued with a few variations from normal methods of hunting," Reedy reveals in his book. "There was a period, for example, when doves were chased in a Volkswagen bus with sunroofs through which the gunners would take aim and, even more important, a space in the back where a white-coated attendant sit­
ting on an ice chest could dispense shells and replace drinks --carefully opening a fresh bottle of soda every time LBJ called for a Scotch. Deer, on the other hand, were shot from white or cream-colored Lincolns driven across open fields like a cutting horse ­dodging rocks and chuck holes and equipped with an especially strident horn to disperse 
bewildered cattle." 

But the most telling story of· LB)'s odd 
relationship with the press involved the 
Texan's beliefthat writers were "hypnotized" 
by public relations men into using favorable 
adjectives to describe certain people. 
"For a long time," Reedy writes, "Johnson 
P.O. Box Q 
Afamily plea 

To the Notre Dmne Student Body, 
Three weeks ago tomorrow, our son Ker­
ry and his good friend Beth Mcinerny, both 
Notre Dame students, were Mruck down and 
left for dead by a still-unidentified driver. 
There are no words that can fully express 
the pain and suffering that that hit and run 
driver has caused these two beautiful young 
people. The grief of our family is equally in­
describable. fortunately, it has been 
mitigated by the love and support ofmany of 
Notre Dame's students, faculty and com­
munity members. 
When the Notre Dame family is assailed, that family responds. In this case there are 6,700 members of the undergraduate family ofNotre Dame. Your voices raised in protest show your outrage over this crime. Your ef­forts to look for a white General Motors car with a damaged right front bumper and/or fender, taking down the make and license numbers, and calling Sergeant Pinkert ofthe South Bend Police at 2H--i-920 1 ( 284-9306 during the day) with your leads, will show your concern that this crime not go un­solved. Your continued prayers for recovery, your tangible expression of .outrage at this heinous act, and your col-ilective refusal to allow the stories of Beth 
Mcinerny and Kerry Mannion to simply fade 
into la~t week's old news, combine to prove 
the true character of Notre Dame today. 
Indeed, we should all be outraged, 
ouLragt:u uvt:r dlt:: Hl\::}-J&t.t·uUh.: U..tl•'-tl4'-= l.iuu'-. 
to these two members of the Notre Dame 
family. And outraged over the inability to 
find and identify the driver of that vehicle. 
Yes, there arc important events taking place 
on campus -debates, football games, 
dances, etc. -but not one of them, in 
human terms, approaches thb callous attack 
on two ofour own. 

With your help, we can prove that Notre 
Dame students will not allow this wanton ag­
gression to remain unsolved or be forgotten. Don't lose yourinterest becuuse there seem to be no concrete leads. So far we have received word from the F.B.I. that the car which struck Beth and Kerry was white and made by GM, which gives us all more direc­tion in our search. ( GM makes Pontiac, Chevy, Oldsmobiles, and Buicks ). Soon, paint experts shall be able to determine the exact year and model ofthe car. 
Rally, people of Notre Dame. Rally behind 
two of your own. Show the University and 
the community that you, every one of you, 
can make individual determinations about 
things in this life that are really important. 
And those things, good people, have not 
changed in two thousand years-love, con­
cern, compassion, support and an un­
quenchable desire to see justice done. 
We again express our appreciation to you all for taking us back into the Notre Dame family. We leave richer for the experience. 
The Mannion Fami~J' 
envied what he regarded as the highly 
favorable press treatment accorded Sen. Her­
bert Lehman. He wa~ particularly impressed 
by the frequency with which journalists 
coupled the adjective "sincere· with the name 
Lehman and conclud ted that this resulted for a 
heavy investment in public relations ... 
"Reporters did not use the same adjective to describe LBJ because there were so manv others that were more appropriate. The}· though of him as forceful, commanding, com­petent -qualities beside which the word 'sincere' paled into insignificance even when it was justified. 
"Someone had told him about the theories 
VIABLE AlTERNATIVE!?! 
of subliminal conditioning then making the rounds and his methodology was to mutter 'sincere' over and over in the presence ofjour­
nalists. When he could insert the word into a sentence, he would do so even when it had to ­
be dragged in by the heels, kicking and 
screaming. When he could find no sentence 
that was suitable, he would repeat 'sincere' 
under his breath, over and over to the ab­
solute bewilderment of his audience. For­
tunately, he dropped the effort before articles '·· could appear questioning his sanity." 
These are the kind ofstories that make Lyn­don B.johnson:A J.1emoir the most entertain­ing history book to appear in some time. 

The Notre Dame chapter of Amnesty lnte~·­national participated in an international ob servance of "Prisoners of Conscience" week, by focusing on the circumstances of the "detained-disappeared" in many Latin American countries. 
Paulita Pike 
Guest Columnist 

Campus events, such as the film Missing, were designed to create an awareness among the student body of the violations committed against human rights not only in Chile. but in other Latin American countries like Argen­tina. Recognition given to "Las Madres de Ia Plaza de Mayo" will focus attention on the plight of thousands of university-age studems who have either been detained or simply made to "disappear" on charges of sheer SIJSpicion that they collaborated with the op­position forces. 
In I976, and as a result of this situation, Las Madres de Ia Plaza de Mayo -or just Las Madres as they are commonly called -was born. La~ Madres is made up of 2,500 of all walks of life and ages whose common bond lies in the child -or children -they lost to the military regime during Argentina's "Dirty War" waged from the middle to late 19'70s. 
Ostensibly, thb was waged to combat the communist threat. However, the majority of the "detenidos-desaparecidos," most of them university students, were no more than that: students and intellectuals with no clear links to the left, according to union rights activists in Argentina. 
Amnesty International, together with other human rights organizations, has estimated that between 6,000 and I 5,000 people have disappeared during this time, and while for1 mer military president jorge Videla and other officials have admitted that some excesses were committed by the military, they have refused to provide an account oftheir action~, and military leaders insist that no investiga­tion of human rights abuses will be allowed. 
Ifthe authorities or the general public have 
forgotten, Las Madres have assembled every 
Thursday morll'ing for the pa~t six vears at the 
park from where their name derives, Plaza de 
Mayo. Wearing handkerchiefs with the hand­
written name or names of the disappeared 
children, Las Madres march before "Casa 
Rosada" (government house), in an act that 
speaks oftheir great love and anguish. It is also 
a ritual ofdespair yet hope, not knowing what 
became of their children; who took them ' 
away; for what rea~on; and most crucially, will 
they ever be found? 
Still after six years Les :\-ladres remains 
strong and maybe ev,t:n hopeful. Their ac­
tivities are not solely relegated to the weekly 
assembling. They have virtually exhausted 
any-and all possibilitie~ within their means, 
and sometimes outside their means. Their ap­
peals. inquiries and pressures have been 
brought to bear on all authorities at all levels 
ofgovernment, the military and the Church. 
Meanwhile. the Madres continue to march and wait and to hope, and while some may feel that their child is forever gone, there are still those children who might, just might, "porIa gracia de Dios" still show up. It is for them, too, that Las Madres murch. Andfinally, if is also for the children, for the ninos who play barefoot in the street, who don't go to school, and roll tires with sticks down dirt roads and live in the miserable shanty towns. It is for these ninos that Las Madres march and will always m~rch as long as these ninos are around. 
==-:::---=-:c_Ihe_Obser¥er== 
Editorial Board Department Managers 
The Obrert-er is an independent ncw~paper publ1shed by the students of the 
Editor-in-Chief. ............................. Michael Monk Business Manager .............................Tony Aiello
University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Colle,ge. It does not ne-..-es~arily 
Managing Editor................Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller.............................................Eric Schulz
rcflt·ct the po!i<-il's of the admmistration of either institution. The news ~~ report-1 
SMC Executive Editor............Margaret Fosmoe Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owen
ed as accurately and as ohjcct1vdy as possiple. Editorials represent the opinion of 
Sports Editor...................................Chris Needles Production Manager..................Maura Murphy
a ma1onty of the Fd1torial Board. Co.nmcntaries, opinions and letters are the views! 
Editorials Editor .............................Paul McGinn Circulation Manager .................. .......Ray Inglin 
of the1r author~. Column space is available to all members of the (Qrnrnun1ty, and 
Features Editor ...................................Tari Brown Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley
the free expression of varying opinwns on campu~. through letters, ii eo(ounged. 
Photo Editor ...................................Rachel Blount P.O.Hox Q, Notre Dame, IN -l6SS6 (ll9) lJ9-SJOJ Founded November 3, 1966 
·I 

The Observer wtll accept clasSJfleds Man-,. 
day through Fnday. 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m However. classtfleds to appear tn the nel(t tssue must be recetved by 3 p.m. the busmess day prior to tnsertton. All classifleds must be prepatd. · ·
Classifieds 
etther tn person or through the matI Saturday, October 16, 1982 -page 8 
Need nde lo MILWAUKEE. Fn. Oct. 22-­
Do you remember these great namesLOST NO LEITER JACKET 10/12 IN 
can leave.anyttme after 11 a.m. STOP will from the past? · ENG. AUD. CALL PAT x1981. REWARD
NOTICES 

share usual expenses call Sheila 289-The Crystals 9304. The Ronettes Martha and the Vande lias 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 LQSt; Black and white pearl ring some­
SUMMER PROGRAMS LONDON where in the vtctnily of Madeleva and the RIDE NEEDED TO NEAR NEAR WEST Jan and Dean 
TWO RUSH TIX ROW 15 CENTER (MAY 17-JUNE 16) ROME (JUNE 13 Need a ride ? Drive a WILSON sctence butldtn on SMC campus. "Very PALM BEACH FLORIDA OR MIAMI Peter, Paul, and Mary 
· ST.AGE. BEST OFFER BOB 3259 ,-JULY 12), COURSES IN ART, BUSI­DAIVEAWAY car home for break. One­valuable and has sentimental worth. If PLEASE CALL BRIAN 1169 If so {or even 1f not), you can hear these 
' NESS, EDUCATION, HISTORY, acts (and at least 15 others) on Tim Nee­way transportation. you pay ONLY gas found PLEASE call Lorrie at 5484 
ITAUAN, MUSIC & PHILOSOPHY. IN­and tolls (plus a returnable security ORLANDO-ROUND TRIP-32' A.V. TRAviicHEAP ON AMTRAifone-way ly's Top 20 Time Tunnel, this Sunday
FO. MEETING ON OCT. 18, 7 P.M. (232 
looking for riders call mike 1650 · coach ticket Niles-Chicago-Denver-night al 6 pm on WSND-AM 64. as Timdeposit). Call BOB : 233-6495 FOUND: Anne Klein change purse Call MOREAU -SMC). CALL PROF. A.R.
seattle lor $70. Must be us~d by October goes back to the th1rd week in October.
3889 

BLACK 4460 OR 272-3726.
Atde needed to Lafayette, IN or iowards 31,1982 Contac1Encat~83-8218.' 1963
NEED AIDE TO NORTH CAROLINA .............;...................................................
lndtanapolis for Oct. break.· Call Tom FOR BREAK. SHARE GAS, CALL LOST:Yellow Folder/Tan notebook tn C­Need a ride to either northern New Jar­
1396. . Thais THE TOP 20 TIME TUNNEL. Sun­
CHAPIN AT 1522 ANYTIME. line.N.D.H.,10/14. Please return to Paul My (right off Rt. 80) or the Allentown, 
~.. ···:··:· . day ntght al6 on WSND AM 64!
3405. .,-Pa. area tor October break. Can leave
Need nde to St Louis for Oc!. break W/share expenss. Call Mary 233-45!;18._ TICKETS ATTENTION SMC-ND CHICKS
Wednesday, .Oct. 20. Call Mike, 2n­4300. 
: I 

Chamtnade graduate Paul Ate··~ is 181hts NEED A AIDE TO SAN. FAAN''i5Fi'LA .! .... :. wee kend! Call 8316 or stop by 37 AREA FOR OCT. -BREAK. CAN LEAVE Pangborn Hall to wish lhts potential var­
GOPHER FAN NEEDS AIDE to the TWIN 
ILOST/FOU~-~11~_FO_R_R_EN_T___, 
CITIES for October Break! Wtlling to pay
THURS. 10/21. CALL SEAN 288-2204 WILL PAY BIG MONEY FOR 4 PENN sity athlete a happy at$x/ birthday!-THE 
STATE GA TIX. CALL 312-565-5959 good$$. Please call Chuck at8917 CREW 
ORANGE STONE CALL GINA 6553 
COLLECT AND ASK FOR STEVE CALL GINA 6553 Student Houstng -Clean -Safe So the red headed SMtC chtck ts sick of HELP! I NEED AlOE TO MAINE FOR 
FALL BREAK AS ADDED ATTRACTION LONGLEY. Are you a fan of D1ana Ross? Is Motown $100/mo 291-1405 the dead soctal scene. Wha1 has she ever
I CAN SHOW YOU WHERE SKIP DES­the place you want to be? Is transporta· JARDIN GREW UP! I WILL TAKE RIDE lion leaving you stranded? If so. the Oc­
done tor it? Furn. efftctency $1 00. Also 1 bedroom 
TO ANYWHERE IN NORTHERN NEW tober break chauffeur has room for twoTo whomever pteked up my CORDUROY NEED ANY KIND OF PENN STATE TIX
apartment $175. Call 255-8505 BOSTON CLUB VICTORY PARTY IM­
ENGLAND. CALL DAN AT 4603 more riders to Detroit c1ty or any place 1n MEDIATELY followtng the ARIZONAJACKET outside the south dinning hall on CALL MEG-7628 
between. The Ford will be departing Notre Garne. Look for MASS flag at Campu>Friday, Why do you you want rt? H's too 
WANTED: A RESPONSIBLE DRIVER Dame Saturday. Interested? Call Tan at TO DRIVE A CAR BACK TO NOTRE 239·5313 and leave a message old and beat-up for any respectable per­
BELIEVE IT! I WILL PAY $100 FOR 2 
View acros~· from pool. ALL YOU CAN 
son to wear but I WANT IT BACK Ill Hyou PENN STATE GAS CALL MARGIE 
DRI!"K AS USUAL Help make this three
DAME FROM DENVER, DURING OC­have rt for any reason rt has my name in it, WANTED 4416 
successful bashes in a row!!
TOBER BREAK NO EXPENSES EX­CEPT FOR YOUR FUEL COST. CALL HAPPY BIRTHDAY KATHY DONIUS!!! DAN, 1149. From your Fourth Floor Farley Freshmen! 
so call AI at 3423. 
BOSTON CLUB FRIENDS AND ALUMNI TWO GIRLS NEED RIDE TO PH ILLY DESPERATELY NEED PENN TIX, INVITED TO POST ARIZONA GAMELOST: Hewlett-Packard calculator in 
FOR BREAK WILL SHARE USUAL BOTH GA & STUDENT CALL SUE AT PARTY IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING
black leather-like pouch. It was left in WANTED: AIDE FOR THREE PEOPLE
CALL CELESTE AFTER 7 X7895 283-7389 THE GAME 
either 214 Math/computer or the (OR ANY COMBINATIONS) TO OR To our Hawanan Pnncess-­Auditorium in Cushing. If you know any­NEAR ERIE. PA . FOR OCT BREAK Roses are red,
Need nde to Nashvtlle, TN for Oct Break BOSTON CLUB PARTY IMMEDIATELY
thing about it, please call John Kilcran at ANYONE GOING ON 1·90 OR 1-80? Violets are blue. 
Can leave Wed. 10/20 Also need nde NEED 4 GA TIX TO PENN ST. $$$CALL AFTER THE GAME ALL NEW
CALL NORA AT The boys from Stanford8534 
back to NO from N New Jersey on 10/31 JIM 233·2386 ENGLAND STUDENTS AND ALUMNI 
wtsh happy to you!

It ypu can help with etther PLEASE call INVITED. LOOK FOR MASS FLAG AT
Whoever "FOUND" my 1.0. and football WASH. 0 C /NO VA Need ride to the Stgned,
.Jime1 at4571 Wtll share usual. Need SIX GAs for enthus1asttc alumn1 CAMPUS VIEW 
tix Saturday for $10, please return them aforement1on~d for October break. Will the boys 
Please call 283-1809 
as stated 1n our verbal contract K. Hew­share the usual Call John at 1817 P.S. Saturday ntght-hee.hee, hee 
AlOE needed to BOSTON for October 

son. 261 C.C.E 283-7443. DON McLAURIN! BEAT DILLON!! 
breqk W1ll shar·e driving and expenses Need Penn State Gas. Wtll pay cold hard 
Help South Bend Juliet wants to see her 
Call STEVE at 277-8~85. afternoons or cash 8539
Milwaukee Romeo If you could g1ve me a Ralonda--­
LOST: Notre Dame class nng at the Mtami · evemngs.
Pep Rally. Please return i1! My father will'. ride to Mtlwaukee on Oct. 23 after lloe smlle!!!-only one more week & were out
NEED 4 GAS FOR PENN STATE GAME 
kill me tf I show up at home wtthout rt. Call GMATs. I d apprectate·tl! Wtll share the olhere!!l
PLEASE HELP! need nde to WASH.DC CALL TRACEY 5201 iSMC)
Torn. 8602 REWARD usual. If you re Milwaukee bound, please love, 
tor: oct break Wtli help With usual Maura call Julie at 3882 ' me 

x2244

LOST: Nikon camera '" black ·case on ps vacalton, a,lll ever wanted Friday -tn area of Ihe Dome. Call 264-· Ann Arbor/Detro1t 15 where its at! GOLLY JEEPERS' I need two PENN
Need nde tO or near San Anton1o. TX for

5313 ·Reward! (Actually where he s atl) If you re headed STATE GAs, btg brother would like to see Dear St. Lows.'.· MilWaukee s best w11l
breaK W/share usual. Call Steve at1777 

.,. to Ann Arbor/Detrontor breao, I d be eter­a game wllh Pop. Call DAVE at1165 prevatl BERNIE BREWER LOST. Gold watch. made tn USSR, brown nally grateful tor a nde. leavtng Oct 23 go BREW CREW leather band. near Howard PHONE: after the GMAT' s Wtll share the dnvtng 3558. and expenses. If you can help me out, FORSALE · Anzona ltx 2397139 Happy Btrthday Marte Regan 
RIDERS. NEEDED: GOING SOUTH 

please call Lisa at 3882 Thanks! Love all of usI LOST: Oval S! Chnslopher s medal, one .. ,. THROUGH INDIANAPOLIS. LOUIS-TWO PENN ST GAs BEST OFFER to one & one half" large between Lew•s VILLE, NASHVILLE, AND ATLANTA 
8t12 Hall and the Huddle or the Huddle and the .LEAViNG OCTOBER 22 AFTER NEED2 RIDES TO VERMONT OR AREA 
BOSTON CLUB PARTY IMMEDIATELY Ltbrary It IS made of Stiver. Call Kevtn LUNCH CALL ALAN AT 1686 LEAVE FOR OCT BREAK CALL RICH 1625 FOR SALE.SA TURDAY ONL Y.2 GAS AFTER THE GAME-IT WILL LAST UNTIL t 592tf found. Rewaru tffound. · MESSAGE. NEED TO ARIZONA.277-3196 THE BEER RUNS OUT , 


GOOD LUCK IRISH
I
r 
I 
BEAT ARIZONA 
Your NOTRE DAME CREDIT UNION 
And Their "LUCKY LEPRECHAUN" 
Wish The IRISH ''GOOD LUCK"! 
Take a "LUCKY LEPRECHAUN" To The Game. Available for only $10.00 At The ............... . 
NOTRE DAME CREDIT UNION 



Ib--~-o~-=-=~·=·-=-=-===========·=-=--=-===================~ 
Weekend 

Saturday, October 16, 1982-page 9 

Doonesbury 






So 1\e ~ut oot acolort(.!\ l paper 
'lower, 


~-­

"
~-1 
~ 

= 
___A--­

ACROSS 27 Lickspittle 1 Ridicules 29 Green 6 Abbreviated vegetable 
gender 33 Biblical 
10 Particle country 14 Musicman of riches Jones 34 Egyptian 15 Author solar god Sholem 35 "-now, 16 "Clair brown..." de-" 37 Scenery in 17 Greek Burns' land 
letter 38 Ricochet 18 Close by 39 Hindugod 19 News brief 40 Family 20 Hebrew member, 
letter for short 
21 Light and 41 Bird sound dark 42 Confronted shading 43 Libertine's 
24 Couples trait 26 1002 45 Irritate 
The Daily Crossword 
Friday's Solution 

I0 I A I S IW 0 RffiA-t;T.t-i-1lOlL lA N DIN IW 
Hll iD IE IN IT-A
-.~lA*+'~ IEMIS ~~ 
I-I IE A.A ISIAINID-lAID ICIIIGIAIRIEIT JliJ(JJL 
.IEIAIS 1­IAITITIA R lA lA IRIEIS-IM 
lA IBIUIL IAINIC IH IS ILIEIIIS.IHIAIR .ISITIA 010 IT IE .lA IG IU IE .IE IS IN
©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 10/16/82 
10/16/B
All Rights Reserved 

Garry Trudeau 

Jeb Cashin 

I ~new WilliWI. \\e wa~ J ~retty
neat f\,d. 

Campus 

•s 
a.m. -Test, Graduate Record Examination, Engineering Auditorium 

•9 
a.m. -Baseball, ND Alumni Game, Jake Kline Field 

•I:I5 
p.m. .:..._Gerry Faust Interview, On WSND­AM-64 

•I
:30 p.m. -Football, Notre Dame vs. University ofArizona, Stadium 

•7, 
9, and 11 p.m. -Film, "Knute Rockne, All American," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Film Club, $1.00 

•s 
p.m. -ND%SMC Theatre Production, "The Taming of the Shrew," O'Laughlin Auditorium, 


52.50 for students Sunday, Oct. 17 
•I 
p.m. -Baseball, ND vs. University of.lllinois­Chicago,Jake Kline Field 

•I 
p.m. -4 p.m. -Opening Art Exhibidon, The Golden Age of Dutch Art: The Dreesman Collec­tion, Snite Museum ofArt 

•4 
p.m. -University Artists Series, Dmitry Paperno, pianist, Annenberg Auditorium 

•s 
p.m. -Concert, "Michiana New Music En­semble," Roger Briggs, SMC Little Theatre, Sponsored by SMC Music Department, No charge 

•9 
p.m. -NAZZ, Steve Wimmer, 

•Midnight 
-All Jazz Show, Nocturne Night Flight, WSND-FM 88.9 


The saga of a

B •
rtan ' 
6 month old domer. 

0 
BRIAN's 
FIEST 
Y'J5lT.. TO CORBYt. 


46 Aspire 47 Lake Placid wear 48 Rooster, in 
literature 53 Baste 56 Aureole 57 Chester· 
field, e.g. 58 "And behold 
-horse" 60 Sidekick 61 Entrance 62 Gets an 
eyeful 63 Progress 
slowly 64 Woman 65 Beginning 
DOWN 1 Diamond glove 2 U.S. watch· dog agency 
3 He kept Saturday Night live 
4 Krazy­5 Slangy dollar bill 
6 "No-an island" 7 Traveling, 
sailor-like 8 Wound cover 9 Trimming 

material 10 Ballerina Markova 
11 Skirt for 10D 12 Quite a 
character 13 Note 22 Surprised 
syllable 23 Vices 25 Migrant 
worker 27 High shots 28 Month 29 Regretful 30 Stage item 31 Indians 32 Mean abode 34 Hirsute 
musical 36 Try the waters 38 Kind of 
warfare 39 Submerged 41 IOU,e.g. 42 Jumble 44 Used a 
pirogue 45 "Norma-" 47 Trivial 48 Fellow 49 Greeting 50 Cinema Ray 51 Musical 
ending 52 -an 
thenazz 

monbay, Sp.m. 
nov.s
SatUI~Oay, Oct. 16 St€V€ Wlffiffi€R 9-10:30p.m. Op€0 Staq€ 10:30p.m.-? On sal€ at 
s.u. Box o~~Jc€ 


---------~­
Saturday, October 16, 1982-page 10 
' S~orts 
Irish shutout DePaul in soccercontest, 6-0 
By SAM SHERRILL keeper. 
, Sports Writer No sooner h;:~d the Blue Demons kicked off, then the Irish scored The Notre Dame soccer team again. Joe Hohl got the ball, took it 
caught fire after a slow start last into the area, turned, and let loose night to beat the Blue Demons of with a hard right-footed shot into DePaui6-0. Joe Hohlled the way for the right side of the net at 70:45 ­the Irish with two late goals, and the second goal in fourteen seconds. Dave Miles notched the game­Four minutes later, the Irish made winner in the first half. it 4-0. After a foul, freshman Tom 
The Irish pelted the Blue Demon Daley rocketed the free kick toward defense from the start. Mario Manta the Blue Demon goalie. The keeper 
just missed several early shots. The could only parry it, and the ball Demons' greatest weapon on trickled out toward the waiting feet defense in the first half, though, was of Manta, who booted it home at 
an excellent offsides trap which con­74:38. tinually frustrated the Irish. Mario Hohl got his second goal of the Manta alone was caught offsides no night shortly thereafter, at 77:36. less than eight times. Manta's shot was deflected off a 
But the Irish kept working at it defender to Hohl, who smacked a and getting good shots until it hard, right-footed shot past the now­
, looked as if they had finally scored. shellshocked Blue Demon goalie. The Notre Dame soccer team defeated DePaul consin tomorrow for a contest with the Warriors Rich Herdegen made a great run By this point, aU starters were off University last night on Cartier Field by a 6-0 ofMarquette. See story at right. (Photo by Glenn down the right side and uncorked a the field, as Hunter played practical­margin. The Irish take their 9-4-2 record to Wis-Kane). 
wicked shot which beat the keeper ly everyone who was dressed. But 
-but not the left post. It then ap­even with the second and third 
Two homers
peared that Miles had tallied, but he strings in, the Irish still prevented was called for a push on the play. DePaul from crossing the midfield After another shot hit the post, the stripe. Then, at 88:32, the team 
McGee leads Cards to victory 
Irish finally scored at 33:04. Chris closed out the scoring. Mark Bidin­Telk passed down the right flank to ger was blatantly dragged down in MILWAUKEE (AP) -Rookie the eighth but retired the Brewers in Dane Iorg. the Cardinals' Miles, who carried it into the penalty the box.His ensuing penalty kick 
Willie McGee drove in four runs the ninth to record his first save in designated hitter, hit a grounder to area and blasted the ball past the was smothered by the keeper who with a record-tying two home runs the Series to go along with a victory the Cooper's right at first base. goalie into the left corner. As the let the bali go through his hands and in Game Two. Cooper the ball, then
and robbed Gorman Thomas of a bobbled first half came to an end, the Irish into the net. 
homer with a leaping ninth-inning And, in the ninth, Sutter heaved a kicked it toward second for an error 
had outshot DePaul 27-2, but had The final statistics were stagger­catch as the St. Louis Cardinals beat sign of relief when McGee raced to as Smith advanced to third. 
only the lone goal to show for it. ing. Notre Dame outshot DePaul 55­
the Milwaukee Brewers' squad 6-2 the left-center field wall and leaped The weather got worse in the 5, and the Blue Demon keeper made 
last night and took a2-1 lead in the above the rail to snare a drive by McGee, the center fielder who second halfas a cold drizzle began to 26 saves to one for the Irish duo of 
79th World Series. Thomas that could have cut the St. had taken some extra batting fall. This is the point where the les­Gerard McCarthy and Dan Coughlin. Cardinal starter Joaquin Andujar Louis lead to two runs. Ben Oglivie practice during an optional off-day 
ser team can usually get a lucky The Irish travel tomorrow to face was the winner, pitching a two­had reached on a fielding error by workout Thursday, then hit Vuck­·bounce and make an even game ofit. Marquette in Wisconsin, the start of first baseman Keith Hernandez, and ovich's first pitch into the right-field
hitter until he was struck by a sharp,But the Irish were destined to get six consecutive road games. With one-hop single by Ted Simmons in Thomas then hit a long drive that beachers, over the 362-foot sign, for the bounces tonight, lucky and their record now at 9-4-2, their 
the bottom of the seventh inning. looked every bit a homer. his second post-season homer. 
earned. After several more shots hopes are understandably high. But 
Andujar left the game in extreme Instead, it was a long out. barely missed, the Irish suddenly Jay Schwartz will be out for about 
pain, carried off the field by his McGee's three-run homer in the McGee hit another home run on a became sharpshooters, connecting ten more days, and it looks like the 
teammates. fifth inning ended a scoreless pitch­1-0 Vuckovich delivery in the on five goals in the last 19:29. fifteen minutes Mike Sullivan saw After Jim Kaat and Doug Bair ing duel between Andujar and Mil­seventh, tying the Series record for Herdegen, the leading scorer for against Akron wiU be his only onesof 
loaded the bases in reliefofAndujar, waukee's Pete Vuckovi<.lt{ MoGee rookies. the Irish, got the rally started at the year. He aggravated the leg Bruce Sutter came on with two outs added a solo homer in the Cardinals' 
70:31. He gathered in a pass on the problem which has plagued him all 
to end the threat. Sutter gave up a two-run seventh, also offVuckovich. Andujar was breezing along when left side of the field, drove into the year and should miss the rest of the he was injured. With one out in the
two-run homer to Cecil Cooper in box, and powered it in past the season. Game Four is scheduled for I :20 seventh, Simmons, who had 
p.m. EDT today, with the Cardinals' homered once in each of the first Dave LaPoint pitching against the two games of the Series, hit a sharp,
Not hopeful 
Brewers' Moose Haas. one-hop grounder back to the Andujar, who escaped trouble in mound. The ball struck the Cardinal the third and sixth innings, struck pitcher on the shin, directly below
NFL talks center onperipherals 
out three and walked just one with his right kneecap. The right-hander 
COCKEYSVILLE, Md. (AP) -sides spent the next eight hours gling, sources indicated that some of his 97 mph fastball before leaving dropped to the ground as though he ""Talks aimed at ending the 25-day-old caucusing and, despite a news black­the details on the seco:•dary issues the game. had been shot and had to be taken to National Football League players out imposed by Kagel, issuing state­were getting bogged down on Several times, it appeared Andujar Mt. Sinai Medical Center for x-rays. 
strike resumed last night, after being ments and counter-statements on details, delaying Kagel's timetable would be unable to control his tem­Simmons was credited with a single, delayed nearly eight hours by hag­what was said to have happened. for getting to the crucial enmomic per. Instead, he maintained total the third hit off Andujar. That gling over a legal action taken by the The net effect was to lessen the ones specifically the union control of Milwaukee's vaunted brought Kaat in to relieve. 
union inJuly. proposal to pay players on a league­
anticipation that a settlement was power hitters, who slugged a major league-leading 216 home runs
Sam Kagel, the mediator who kept near. There had been hopes that wide wage scale. One source close Kaat, at 43 the second-oldest the two sides together for 21 both sides could reach agreement to the negotiations said he believed during the regular season. player ever to appear in a Series straight hours Thursday and early this weekend and avoid the cancella­the talks, now in their fourth day, Vuckovich faced the minimum game, struck out Ben Oglivie. But yesterday morning, announced tion of a fifth weekend of NFL foot­number of hitters in the first, third Gorman Thomas, the next batter,
could stretch into next week. shortly after 7 p.m. EDT that negotia­ball. Yesterday, the two sides were and fourth innings. singled sharply to left, sending Sim­It came unraveled for him in the mons to second.
tions had resumed and "will probab­Since Kagel, 73, a San back together after breaking off at 6 fifth.
ly go most of the night." Francisco-based private mediator, a.m. This time, however, they began That chased Kaat, and Bair came They had actually been scheduled entered talks Wednesday, After striking out Darrell Porter in from bullpen. Pinch-hitter
the on squabbling immediately. the to resume at 11 a.m., but broke off they have concentrated on the so­According to union spokesman AI looking, Lonnie Smith doubled on Don Money walked to load the bases five minutes later in squabbling over called peripheral issues and ap­Zack, management asked as "a pre­several hops off the wall in left­and that brought on Sutter, the win­
peared to be making considerable center. It would have been a triple, ner in reliefin Game Two, as the Car­
whether the union should withdraw condition" to further negotiations, a complaint before the National progress. that the union drop "with hut Smith feU rounding first base. It dinals evened the Series Wednesday 
didn't matter, though.

Labor Relations Board. The two But even before yesterday's hag-prejudice" a petition it tiled in July. night in St. Louis. 
,------------------------,
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, Ind. 465S6 
If you are one of the thousands of people who just can't get enough of 
Enclosed in $20 for the full academic year.
Notre Dame football, then The Observer is just what you're looking for. 
D 

By having The Observer delivered daily to your home, you can know 
more about about the Fightin' Irish football team than you ever dreamed. 
Enclosed is Sl 0 for the remainder ofthe fall semester. Every day our large and talented reporting staff will keep you informed of 
D . 
the latest news concerning Gerry Faust's much improved football team. 
And when it comes time to start thinking about basketball, you can be sure Name.•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• that The Observer will provide you with all the information you'll need about Digger Phelps and his scrappy squad. For just UO you will receive Address................. ,,.,,,,,,, ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
The Observer at your home for the rest of the semester. Or you can take 
advantage of our special full-year discount and receive The Observer 
City•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••···•••••••••••••• State•••••••••••••••· Zip•••••••••••••••••••• 
through the spring for only $20. That's a great savings for the most com­
prehensive coverage of Notre Dame sports anywhere. Just fill out the at­
. D Renewal DN.D. Alumn~. .\~~:r Graduated......... .. 
tached coupon and return with remittance. You simply can't afford to turn 
down this offer. 
L------------------------J 

·~----------------------~~~--~--~--~--------------------------------------~--~----~ 
The Irish Extra -Arizona . ·, Saturday, October 16, 1982 -page 11 

• • • Outlook 
continuedfrom page 1 
"I suppose people may tend to overlook Arizona a little bit with UCLA, 

Washington, and Arizona State all unbeaten in their own league, but I'm sure 
their performance at UCLA Saturday will make some folks wake up and take 
notice," says Faust. "You look at their season, and Arizona is not far from 4-0 
at this point. Iowa had to drive 80 yards to kick a field goal with less than 
three minutes to play in order to beat them, and they played a great second 
half against Washington. 
"They gained 499 yards against Oregon State, so they certainly have the 

capability ofputting points on the board.." 
In the Arizona backfield will be a pair of sophomores, fullback Courtney 

Griffith, who has 44 carries for 224 yards, and tailback Phil Freedman, with 
3 7 carries for 116 yards. 
Returning at tailback for the Wildcats will be Vance Johnson, who has 

great speed -and is the NCAA long jump champion. Johnson is second in 
the NCAA in kickoff returns with an average of 32.7 yards. He led the 
Wildcats with 192 yards rushing before he missed the UCLA contest with a 
bruised shoulder. ·. 
Accornpaning Johnson back into the Wildcat fold will_ be Brian Holland, 

who caught four passes and rushed for l 5 yards against the Irish two years 
ago. Holland became academically eligible for the first time this year, and 
can be expected to see some action. Holland has been Arizona's leading 
rusher in each ofthe last two seasons with 590 yards in 1980 and 577 yards 
in 1981. 
Faust characterized the offensive line as "huge and very mobile," weighing 

in at 233, 270, 244, 250, 254, and 265 across the line. 
The offensive line is led by Jeff Kiewel. The senior right guard, the 254 

pounder ofthe line, was a second-team all-Pac I 0 pick in 1981. 
Tunnicliffe's top recievers are a pair of seniors, split-end Brad Anderson, 

whose 19 catches have gained 317 yards, and tight end Mark Keel, with nine 
catches for 135 yards. · 
The defense is "as good as any we've played against," said Faust. "The 

linebackers have both speed and size. The secondary is well coached, which 
is obvious by the number oftheir interceptions." 
The Wildcat defense is led by All-Pacific 10 inside linebacker Randy Hun­

ley.Junior Hunley has led the team in tackles throughout the season and has 
two interceptions. "With senior Glenn Perkins, they form one of the beuer 
combinations in the country at linebacker," said Faust. "They've improved 
this year defensively, no question about it. They held the top-ranked team in 
the country to only a field goal in the second half, and they had Iowa on the 
ropes all afternoon. They held UCLA to only 65 yards on the ground, and 
forced them to throw probably a little more than they wanted to, and that's 
the mark ofa good defense." 
Faust himself is very impressed with Arizona, and is expecting quite a game. "Arizona always rallies when they p~ay better teams. Under Larry Smith, the Wildcats are known for always being well-coached. 
"My big concern is on our mental attitude after our Miami revenge. One thing that will help us prepare for the game is how Arizona played against Washington and that they tied UCLA last week. The players know that Arizona is a good football team. 
"Letdowns are always a problem when you play a schedule like ours and Arizona's. They don't ha\·e to get ready for us. but next week they face Pacific. 
Vance JGhnson
"Playing us is like playing a bowl game. Teams are always ready for us." 

Mike Larkin 
continuedfrom page 1 
school football, and how many they get to choose from to be an Ali·Arnerican, gol·ly, that's a lot ofpeople. 
"The day I saw my name in the paper for honorable mention, I said, 'Dan, the honorable mention list is this long,"' he said holding his hands apart about a foot, "and all these are linebackers. I said I got w go horne {I and go to work." 
This summer the honors continued when he was named to Playboy Magazine's pre· season Ali·Arnerica squad. But the accolades have their downfall, too. 
"Yeh, as far as the opponents, I get double teamed a lot," he said with a chuckle. "When we were playing Washington, I was seeing two, three guys, just stepping over and away from them. It only makes you better, though. I have to hustle more; I have to chase the play down instead ofjust running right at it. A lot of plays are ran away from me instead of right at me." 
In Hunley's two·plus years, the Wildcats have been up and down from week to week. One· week they can lose to a lowly Colorado State or Fresno State, but what has helped Hunley get the nationwide recognition has been victories over the biggies -UCLA two years ago when they were ranked No. 2, USC iast year when the Trojans were top·ranked 
• Hunley 
and the 24-24 tie with No. 8 UCLA last Satur­day. 
"I guess it's the attitude that we as players and the coaches take on the other teams," Hunley said ofthe inconsistencies. "We've got to learn that we can be beat by anybody, but we can also beat anybody. · 
"When we play good teams, everybody gets real psyched up because they want to beat them, they want to embarrass them: They want to let people know that were not losers, we can win. I think the guys are tired oflosing. We're ready to go out and prove ourselves." 
Of the upsets, one common factor has prevailed. The games have been played in the afternoon -a comra.~t from the traditional night games at Arizona Stadium. 
"I just love games like that, especially during the day,' he said with a grin. "I like to get up in the morning and go play football and go home in the afternoon and rest and relax. The night games just drag out, it makes a long day. But I guess that's part ofArizona tradition. 
"I would rather play during the day hours instead of the night. You waste a lot ofenergy just waiting." 
Saturday Ricky Hunley will make the trip to South Bend that he never made, and the Wildcats, 1·2·1, will play another biggie-the ninth-ranked Fighting Irish in an afternoon game at Notre Dame Stadium, just the way Hunley likes it. 
----__,..______ .
-----~----------­
-l 

The Irish Extra -Arizona Saturday, October 16, 1982 -page 12 
Notre Dame vs. Arizona 

..... 

