~-----~ 
.~!Jrew -page 8
'
' 

the indepemll'rll ~!lldt·rH Ill'\\ ~papt·r ~en ing notre dame and ~aill! mary·~ MONDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1982
VOL. XVII, NO. 34 
" 
For solidarity ban 
Pope assails government 
VATICAN CITY (AP) -Pope weekly noon blessing after the 2-primate of Poland who championed .John Paul II, his voice booming with hour service. Kolbe's sainthood, passed up the trip emotion before 200,000 people "On the solemn day of the with the pope's backing to stay close attending the canonization of a canonization of St. Maximilian to events at home. But 40 other Polish priest .killed at Auschwitz, as­Kolbe, I ask all men of good will to Polish prelates were among 300 bis­sailed the Polish regime yesterday pray for the Polish nation,"John Paul hops and 36 cardinals, their purple for outlawing the Solidarity union. declared, raising his voice. and red robes glistening under the 
The pope also recalled the exter­The pope said the Polish Parlia­cloudless skies. Cardinal John Krol mination of Jews in World War II, ment's banning Friday of Solidarity -of Philadephia, of Polish extraction, and deplored that "criminal acts of which was the only independent was among them. anti-Semitic hatred" are still being labor union in the Soviet bloc -vi­Kolbe, a Franciscan arrested in a carried out. He condemned in par­olated "the fundamental rights of crackdown on Roman Catholic ticular the "abominable" grenade man and society." priests by the Nazis, volunteered to and submachine gun attack on The union had been suspended take Gajowniczek's place when the Rome's central synagogue, which when martial law was declared Dec. camp commandant picked out I 0 killed a 2-year-old boy and wounded 13. hostages for starvation following a 37 other people Saturday. Archbishop Jozef Glemp, the prison escape. 
Israel's chief rabbi, Shlomo Goron, yesterday claimed the pope shared responsibility for the attack, saying a rise in terrorism against 
Soviet doctor discusses 
Jews "began when the pope received the leader ofthe murderers known as the PLO with almost regal 

dangersofnuclear war 
honor." The pope held an audience with Palestine Liberation Organiza­Pastore pomted out.
By CHUCK KRILL tion chiefYasser Arafat last month. Because of the great damage-a
News Staff 

nuclear bomb creates, Pastore and A television show broadcast in the the other members ofthe discussion 
The pope spoke from the broad 
marble steps of St. Peter's Basilica Soviet Union warning against panel agreed that "in the event of a
beneath a tapestry bearing.the image nuclear war was the product of ef­nuclear war, medicine would be to­
of the Rev. Maximilian Kolbe, forts by a group of Russian and tally overwhelmed, so don't look to
proclaimed a saint and a martyr for giving his life to save another man at 
American physicians. the medical profession to try to bail One of these men, Dr. John you out ofthis. It can't be done."
the Nazi concentration camp. Fran­ciszek Gajowniczek, now 81, the Pastore, talked about his experience Moreover, the physicians agreed in a lecture to the Preprofessional that "civil defense, as an attempt to
Polish army sergeant saved from Club yesterday afternoon. Pastore, reassure us of anything short of this
death by Kolbe's heroic deed, burst Demonstrators boldpicket signs outside the Hotel del Coronado
who graduated from Notre Dame in level ofdevastation, is a cruel decep­
into tears several times during the in Coronado, California Friday as they protest President Reagan's
1963, is a member of the Board of tion," Pastore said.
service. John Paul, wearing red vest­economic policies. More than 200 gathered outside the hotel,
Directors of the International Pastore believes that the televi­
ments in honor of Kolbe's martyr­where Reagan and Mexico's President-elect de Ia Madrid were
Physicians for Prevemion ofNuclear
dom, noted in his homily that four meeting. (AP)
See PASTORE page 4

War. IThe group ofAmerican and Soviet million people died at Auschwitz in 
"the immense holocaust of so many i physicians, including Dr. Eugene
innocent people." 
I
Chazov, Leonid Brezhnev's personal recalled Christ's words, "Greater physician, discussed "in non­
Of Kolbe's deed, the pope a 
Hesburgh u;rites 1tUJo segtnents' -­
political way the medical dangers of I lay down his life for his friends." a nuclear war," Pastore said. Five other survivors of Auschwitz According to Pastore, it is not only WASHINGTON (AP) -Notre leaders from around the world, Asked about Reagan's recent -wearing the white and blue camp the physical casualties which make Dame President Father Theodore including the Soviet Union, China charge that the U.S. peace move­uniform -sat in the vast crowd that nuclear war devastating but also the Hesburgh says the nuclear peace and other Iron Curtain countries, to ment was being manipulated by psychological wounds which afflict movement may reunite religious seek an end to the nuclear arms race. outside forces, Hesburgh said, 
love has no man than this, that a man 
stretched to the edge of the cob­"There's always this sense that this
blestone square. Among them was the victims of a nuclear blast. and scientific leaders divided since 
"I think we're going to see a lot ]ozef Tukay of Los Angeles, his uni­"There's something basically dif­the time ofGalileo. movement is being manipulated by
more ofwhat is generally called civil the Russians...and that's why I'veform bearing his camp number, ferem about a nuclear weapon and a Hesburgh was interviewed on disobedience and we're going to see 
10985. conventional weapon," he said. In a Cable News Network's "Newsmaker people going to jail" to protest tried to avoid that implication by The pope reserved his remarks on nuclear war, "the devastation is only Sunday." He said he has been avoiding the Russians."
nuclear arms, he said. 
Solidarity and anti-Semitism for his beginning after a bomb explodes," working with religious and scientific "We're talking about doing it
"For myself, I try to take a dif­across the world, we're talkingferent attack...what I've been trying about the absolute verification into do is...to get these two segments every case, we're not talking uni­
Swedish air force that really haven't been together 
lateral at all. We're not mixing thissince Galileo, and bring them to­up with all other kinds of disarma­gether on this moral issue which is ment or conventional arms


Warplanes searchfor submarine 
probably the greatest moral issue (questions)...this monster must bethat mankind or womankind has gotten rid of It was assembled by
BERGA NAVAL BASE, Sweden played "unusual interest" in ~he area to he from a Warsaw Pact countrv, faced since the beginning of time." human beings. It must be dismantled
(AI') -Air force warplanes joined where the submarine is believed hut Swedish officials, adding to the He called it "the ability to reverse by human beings."
the search yesterday for a suspected trapped. mystery. have refused to publicly creation. the ability to not just Hesburgh defended
Soviet-bloc submarine said to be The Soviet news agency Tass last speculate on its nationality and destroy what God created but what today's col­
lege students against charges they
trapped in Hors Bay. week suggested the search could he merely refer to it as a "foreign" ves­all of us created -civilization and Officials said no new contact had a hoax and denounced the publicity sel and a "probable submarine." culture and art and music a11d are interested only in jobs. "They 
have been somewhat infected by
been made with the mysterious ves­given to the incident in the West, There was no official reaction to a science and all the political institu­
calling it an effort to "sow seeds of their elders insisting that they learn
sel. report yesterday in the daily Dagens tions-everything. to wipe it out." 
something and get a job the day theyTwo air force Viggen planes took suspicion" between Sweden and its /Vybeter that the navy knew with Galileo was the 17th Century 
"eastern neighbors." Tass skirted graduate," he said. "During tough
to the skies over the area for 30 great certainty the location of the Italian astronomer forced hy the minutes yesterday. It was the t1rst the submarine identification issue. suh in Hors Bay. Quoting uniden­Catholic Church in 1663 to recant times that's understandable." Hesburgh said the students he
time planes had been used in the Officials said no trace of the sub­tified military sources, the his belief that the earth moves 
talks to are deeply concerned about
operation. marine was found yesterday night, newspaper said that a navy search around the sun. 
social issues, although he added, "in
Reporters saw one plane roaring but cautioned that nothing had hap­team watd!ed as "the suh made an Hesburgh. 65, who has presided over Hors where sub is pened to change previous assump­
some ways I would wish they'd get aBav. a attempt to sneak up its snorkel to get over Notre Dame for three decades, little more excited about the greatbelieved to b~ trapped, and the tions that a foreign vessel was fresh air or raise the periscope to recently helped enlist 31 university issues that face us in the world."
other flew closer to the sea where a trapped in the bay. Navy spokesmen assess surveillance". presidents to sign a letter to Presi­second submarine is said to be had reported sighting or dete cting After the air force planes disap­dent Reagan urging him to move on Hesburgh, whom former Presi­dent Nixon fired as chairman of the
lurking. the submarine's position every night 
peared at 3 ;>.m. local time ( 10 a.m. arms control talks with the Soviets. 
U.S. Civil Rights Commission inIt was the first time the air force since the search began. "I find (Reagan) moving some­
EDT), a Vertol helicopter appeared 
1972, said he viewed the current ad­
sent up warplanes over the area Navy spokesman Capt. Sven in the bay and lowered a sonar into what in that direction at the mo­ministration's handling ofcivil rightssince the search began after an alien Carlsson said yesterday that the water to listen for possible ment," he said. 
as similar to the way the nationsubmarine's periscope was first laboratory tests ofoil slicks believed echoes for about 1 5 minutes. "I think the president is in a moved in the 1970s.
spotted in the bay Oct. I. A defense to come from the trapped sub­The helicopter did not drop any position to take great leadership on On a light note, askrJ about thestaff official said he assumed the air marine had not vielded anv indica­depth charges. During the I 0-day this and he would make a great name striking National Football League
force planes were taking pictures. tions so far on th.e nationali.tv of the hunt the navy has dropped about 40 in history if he was the one that ·
Officials said Saturday that a intruder. depth charges to force the intruder moved toward the abolition of 
See HESBURGH pa.,~ 3

Soviet llyushin-38 sp~ plane had dis-The submarine is widely believed to surface. nuclear weapons." 




ews Brie/§ 
Hy The Observer and The Associated Press 
The 4-year-old brother of a toddler killed at Rome's main synagogue battled for his life yesterday as police searched for five "professional commandos" who cut down 36 other people in the grenade and submachine gun attack. Police said they are looking for five men, probably of Middle Eastern origin, and that they suspect that Black June or another Palestinian terrorist group may be behind the attack. Four-year-old Gadiel Tache, who had been earlier identified as Gabriele and then Marco in the confusion that followed the attack Saturday, was shot in the head and chest. He was reported in critical condition at Rome's San Camillo hospital. Doc­tors said he has lost his right eye and may lose his right arm. Gadiel's 2-year-old brother Stefano was hit by shrapnel and died shortly after. Officials added three other names to the wounded toll yesterday, bringing the total to 37. -AP 
An "erratic" man holdingtwo children hostage in an Amtrak sleeper car stuck his head out ofa window, displayed a white sheet and accepted food for the first time in the three-day standoff. The thin, bare-chested, bare-legged man yelled in Spanish and waved his arm in a circular motion for about 10 seconds while leaning out ofa window police had broken open earlier. He did not display a gun and police don't know what kind ofweapon he has with him. The man had fired at least 1 5 shots at police during the standoff, and said yesterday that he had 24 bullets left. After pulling down the window shade and leaving the sheet hanging outside, the man, iden­tified as Mario Rodriguez, 29, talked with police by radio. The gun­man, who claimed at various times that a woman and a man in the tiny compartment had been shot or dead, was heard to say in 
Spanish, "Don't shoot. Don't shoot. I want water." -AP 
Brush fires fanned by hot, dry Santa Ana winds rushed from ridge to ridge across Southern California during the weekend, injuring 147 people and destroying 122 homes before dying down yesterday, authorities said. Thousands of people fled choking smoke and red ash blown by screaming, gale-force winds. Property damage was put at !36 millon. At least four of the seven fires were set, authorities said. The fires crackled through more than 74,000 acres of brush-covered hills and tinder-dry valleys in five counties and sent blankets of smoke and soot across the sky all weekend. At least a half-dozen firefighters were among the injured. Several horses were killed by motorists racing from fires, officials said. Firefighters, battling the blaze on the ground 1,000 strong, got a 
break yesterday when the winds dropped off from their high of60 
mph. That allowed eight planes and four helicopters equipped with 
water tankers to take to the sky for the first time. -AP 
Longtime women's activist Judy Goldsmith 
won the presidency ofthe National Organization for Women yester­
day and pledged to mold American feminists into a political force to 
defeat President Reagan and "right-wing" politicians. Goldsmith, 
NOW's executive vice president, bested four other candidates 
including firebrand Sonia Johnson in the voting by the nearly 2,000 
delegates to the group's convention in Indianapolis. She will 
succeed Eleanor Smeal. The victory by the 43-year-old Manitowoc, 
Wis., native signals that NOW will continue the electoral focus 
begun by Smeal, who had privately endorsed Goldsmith's candidacy. 
That political emphasis includes major involvement in the off-year 
elections next month and a commitment to working toward 1984. "I 
see the (NOW) election results as a very strong mandate for a con­
tinuation ofour electoral, political and economic direction that we 
have taken in the last year," Goldsmith said yesterday at a news con­
ference. -AP 

Defense ministers of the six-nation Gulf 
Cooperation Council convened their first meeting in nine months 
yesterday in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia to discuss defense of the oil-rich 
Persian Gulf region. The Saudi defense minister, Prince Sultan Ibn 
AbdelAziz, is chairing the meeting. Other members ofthe gulfcoun­
cil are Bahrain, the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait, Qatar and Oman, 
all conservative states. It is expected that the Airborne Warning and 
Control Systems radar planes Saudi Arabia is buying from the United 
States will form the nucleus of a defense strategy. Sources who did 
not want to be identified said the Saudis also were expected to 
propose using U.S. made Hawk missiles in a unified air defense sys­
tem. -AP 

Heavy shooting eruptedin Kampala, the Ugan­dan capital, Saturday night and the official radio said yesterday it was caused by drunken soldiers and police, some of whom were ar­rested. "The exercise offinding those responsible in various parts of Kampala continues," according to the broadcast monitored in Nairobi. The drunken revelry was apparently connected with celebrations Saturday marking 20 years of independence from Britain. Kampala residents reached by telephone from Nairobi said there was some panic in the Ugandan capital and initial speculation that a coup attempt or guerrilla attack was under way. -AP 
Mostlycloudy, breezyand cool today. High in up­per 50s to around 60. Mostly cloudy and cool tonight and tomorrow, low tonight in mid to upper 40s. High tomorrow in upper 50s. -AP 
Monday, October 11, 1982-page 2 


The Art of Engineering 
Engineering students are thrust into the world of 
specialization long before they understand what 
engineering is all about. 
Someone, for example, once asked me what kind of 
engineering I wanted to study, when I wanted to ask 
someone else what engineers study in the first place. 
That's why I laugh when I hear freshmen engineers 
proclaim to be "biomedical genetic engineers" or some 
other overly specific label, and I wonder why they so 
readily leave the world of the general at such an early 
stage. 
Freshmen engineers, after all, belong in the world of the general. Professor A. E. Miller is quietly doing his part to see that they stay there. 
He's the coordinator of the freshmen introductory course in engineering, EG 120, "Introduction to Engineering Concepts." And he wants his students to get a general grasp of what engineers do and how they do it before some scheduling counselor asks for specialization. 
"Some students come in here terribly naive about engineering," says Miller. "They don't have relatives who are engineers, and they don't have much mechani­cal experience." That's 
why it was a bit of a shock Engineering problems are last August when Miller and not like calculus problems the other EG 120 professor, in that there isn't one John Lucey, walked into answer or one approach. En­their classes and announced gineers have to pull from a that at the end of the semes­whole bag oftricks and skills ter, any student would have in order to do their job. And the knowledge to operate if engineering students are the Notre Dame power shown that there is some or­plant. der to the "bag oftricks," on­Silence. ly then will they begin 
"That probably conjured understanding engineering. 
up a bit of fear," Miller said Thus what EG 120 needed 
last week. "But this course is was a face-lift not a funeral. 
going to show that engineer­That's why I think Miller's 
ing is not as big and "power plant" approach is 
awesome as it seems. Stu­commendable. As students 
dents will be able to take fl!ii(_ ~h begin studying a typical what looks like a huge engineering problem (such 
picture and boil it down so that any student fresh out of high school can see if he's kind of got a feel for that." That "feel" is what engineering is really all about -in general terms; and appropriately, that's what Miller is trying to introduce to his prospective engineers. 
The "power plant" approach represents a positive step toward the third era in the history ofEG 120. When engineer-professors Gadja and Biles premiered their 400-page introduction to engineering textbook in 1978, they closed the door on the first era -when EG 120 was nothing but an introduction to FORTRAN programming. 
Gadja and Biles thought that a three credit course ought to integrate programming with other engineer­ing skills to give students an even broader overview of engineering problems. 
So for four years -the second era -engineering students have muddled through assignments on modelling, optimization, function searches, and economic analysis in addition to FORTRAN program­ming. If you hate this stuff, the EG 120 theory goes, 
The Observer 

Featuring: The 101 ROCK-n­ROLLARMY Design Editor ............... General J.P. Keyes Design Assistant. Lt. General Pete \\'hite and Tom his chauffeur Layout Staff.. Where was Cpt. Cathy Ann Typesellers ......... B.D.,Th~ boogie·woogie bugle bwana News Editor...................................... Lt. Dave Copy Editor..................................... Lt. Kathy Features Layout ........... Lihby Big Boo-ts Editorials Layout .................... Private Tim ND Day Editor ....................... Nurse Cyndy SMC Day Editor.................... Lacy Underall Sports Layout ............................... Col. Chris Sports Copy Editor........................ Sgt. Rich (I work for a living) Typist .............. Monica "the camp wench" Photographer ..................... Drill Sgt. Glenn Guest Appearances ....S. Chucker's tunes, Venereal Rabbits, Slipp<:ry Jim di Griz, Kath, lil' Sis, Noreen. Cassie, Amy. Kim. and Rose To Ufc:, Ubc:ny, and the opposite: sex. ·SJ.d.G. 
The Observer 1USPS 5\18 g201 ~~ published Monday thruugn Fnday arui on home fulltball Saturday5 except durtng exarn and vile atHJI1 pen<>dS The Observer IS published by tht• students ol Notre Da•ne and Sa1nt Mary s Col lege SuOSUIDtlons •nay be purchased for $25 per year 1515 per se•ne5ten by wrthng The Observer P 0 Bux 0 Notre Dame Indoana 46556 
The Observer IS a •ne•nOE" of The Associated Press All repruduL11un nghts are reserved 
Second class pustage pa1r1 at Nc>tre Dame 1na1ana 46556 

ATTENTION: 
There will be ageneral meeting for ALL Observer Staff this Wednesday at 6:30p.m. 
This meeting will be held in the comfortable Library Auditorium. 
Come with your gripes, ideas, and suggestions. 

engineering probably is not your bag of tricks. That's the theory anyway. But both Miller and students won­der if the strictly textbook approach gave a better un­derstanding of engineering to EG 120 alumni than to those who never took the course. 
In fact, some of the best engineering students still consider EG 120 a waste oftime. 
The point is well taken, but misguided. To be sure, EG 120 -the old way -did seem a little disorganized. What did FORTRAN programming, for example, have to do with least squares methods? Mastering the individual skills seemed like an end in itself. 
But perhaps the dissatisfaction with the course stemmed not from the content of the course, but from students' misconception of what engineering is all 
about. 

as a power plant), they will see the very real need for knowing how to use a com­puter, of knowing how to model data, of knowing how to do material balances. 
In other words, the skills taught by Gadja and Biles are hard to appreciate unless integrated in one typical engineering situation. "We cannot be tied to a black­board or an overhead," Miller says. "You have to remember that what we're doing has never been done before. l think it's exciting." 
And if Notre Dame engineering students never ap­preciate what EG 120 did, then maybe they are too con­cerned with the "specialized" to appreciate the "general" that is at once the art ofengineering. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views of the author, and do not necessarily represent the views of The Observer or its editorial board. 



The Observer 
National Peace Academy 

Peace campaigners to speak 
BY CINDY COLDIRON 
SeniorStaffReporter 
The founders ofthe movement for a National Academy of Peace are being sponsored by CILA and the Notre Dame Coalition for Peace to speak on their campaign for a nation­al peace academy. Rose and Dan Lucey of Washington D.C. will talk on Mon. Oct. 11 at 7:30 p.m. in Hayes-Healy Auditorium. 
The National Peace Academy Campaign (N-Pac), a member­supported organization, has a single goal -the establishment of the United States Academy of Peace. Believing that it is crucial that the "U S in the last two decades of this ce~~~ry. devote at least as much at­
tention to strengthening its peacemaking ability as it does to maintaining its military power," the organization seeks to improve society's ability to handle "conflict 
without violence." 
The three objectives of the Academy include periorming and assisting research about internation­al peace and peacemaking; educat­ing and training persons from government, private enterprise and voluntary associations about inter­national peace and peacemaking skills; and establishing an informa­tion service in the field of learning about peace. 
Havingwatched their dreams for a 
National Peace Academy grow in the 
1960's and die away by the early 
1970's, the luceys' organization is 
currently experiencing a great 
resurgence in membership 
The original idea for " National 
Peace Academy occurred to the 
Luceys' in the early 1960's while they and their eight children were visiting Washington D.C. Realizing that so many of the nation's monu­ments commemorated war and fighting, they resolved to do some· thing about it. The Luceys' decided that the establishment of a Peace Academy was essential. 
Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, who is on the advisory board for the campaign, published a letter in early 1982 supporting the Academy. Stating that "as a priest and an educator, I am one who is convinced that we can and must find non-violent means ofresolving our disputes," Hesb .rgh supported the proposal in Congress that would have created a U.S. Academy of Peace. 
Emphasizing ·the need for an 
Academy of Peace,"not to do away 
with conflict, but to learn and teach 
how to creatively 'manage' conflict," 
Hesburgh felt that the Peace 
Academy proposal was, in many 
ways, "much more dramatic a 
development than the freeze." 

The reason for this, Hesburgh stated, was that it would "concentrate all ofour resources for peace and would address the greatest power on earth to the more fundamentally long-term challenge of finding constructive and non­violent ways of resolving all kinds of disputes." The student contact for the Luce ys', Angelo Cappozzi, referred to the fact that the Luceys' spoke at Notre Dame 16 years ago about this same proposal. 
Congress appeared to be on the 
verge of recognizing the need for a 
Peace Academy · last November 
when legislation was introduced in­
to the Senate. Fifty-three senators 
from both parties and more than a hundred members from the House co-sponsored Senate Bill 1889. 
Currently, there is only a bare pos­sibility of the bill being passed in the Senate. Even if it does manage to pass in the Senate. it means starting over again in 1983. Senate majority leader Howard Baker is the key per­son in the Senate yet to be con­vinced of the need for a National 
Peace Academy. 
... Hesburgh 
continuedfrom page 1 
players putting his name on a list of potential mediators, Hesburgh said he was too busy to get involved in something that might take four or five weeks, "although if there's something I could solve in a couple of hours, I think it would be in the public interest to do it." 
Monday, October 11, 1982-page 3 


~ '-<.li\E L,-&llf. \.-U'\l U-K<.n. 
C()JWHIJNECAIJII()N

(JJlrlfcAilli(fc . 
~ 

,..~~-,.....~~()....~-~1()-A\-,/ lfiiiL~\ ~lfll?lll~~ 11 
October (1928) 6:00p.m. Sergei Eisenstein. USSR B& W Silent 161 min. . 
Commemornting the lOth onniversory of the 1917 Revolution. October is the film in which Eisenstein most riqorouslv followed hts own theones 
of intellectual montage The film is iustif~ablv famous for sequences 
which not only incorporate images of ob1ects os metaphonrnt.elements but also integrate the titles into a total dynamic and plasttc untty. 
Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum Admission "---T()~I~I31tilr 7pm $ 2 .oo _... 

~~~,.~~~~~~~~~~­




CORBY'S 
onday Nigh Special! 

Night" 
994 

(nachos, also) 9pm-3am 
GOIRISH, BEAT ARIZONA! 
Buy 

Observer 
C'lassijieds 
A]ewish woman cries outside Rome's Synagogue after terrorists hurledhandgrenades andshot atjews leaving the Synagogue after ~he Sukkoth religious service Saturday. A two-year old boy was killed and several people were serious~)' injured. See related brief on page two. ( AP) 
\.( '"' 1 rm '11\.1 Rlr.t·, 

C()JtvHIJNIICAilii()N
(T llrlfcAIJ~fc 
,~,~-,-~()...~-~1[)-~-\-~~ I~IIIL~\ ~lfll?lll~~ 91~ 
The Bride Wore Black (1968) Francois Trulfout. France. color 107min In FrP.nch with Enalish titles. Dedicated to Allred Hitchcock and scored bv Bernard Herrmann. 
Bride ooens with a scene tram Samuel Fuller's 40 Guns-A man is shot leovina church on his wedding dov. Afterwords Jeanne Moreau the bereaved bnde devotes her life to murdering those responsible in a series of crirTies that ore paradoxically expressions of love. 
Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum Admission ..........--lr~u~lltl311llr 9pm $ 2 .00~ 

Northrop·s Defense Systems Division has career


The People 
opportunities available in the following discipline areas: 
Behind Airborne Electrical Engineering Mechanical Engineering

Radar Warning 
Computer Science 


and ECM Systems. 
We will be interviewing on campus on 
Friday, October 1S, 1982 
NORTHROP CORPORATION Defense Systems Division 500 Hicks Road To arrange an interview. contact your College Placement Rolling Meadows. IL 60008 Director or Northrop's Professional Employment Office. 
We are an equal opportunity employer and encourage

NORTHROP 
minorities. females. veterans and the handicapped to 
MAl< lNG AOVANCfO TFCHNOLOGV WO~ 

The Observer 


Winter seemed close at bandfor skaters who took to the iceyes­terday afternoon for a public skate in the North Dome ofthe ACC. (Photo by Glenn Kane) 

AT'rE-:iTIO!l: SENIORS! 
Turn in your Yearbook Portrait Proofs! 
Where: LaFortune Student Center, Rm. 2C Times: 9:30am ·1:30pm and 1st Door 2:30pm· 5:00pm 
Dates: October 11-15 
Please see the Varden Representative as indicated 

A·E: October 11 F • J: October 12 K-0: October 13 
P •S: October 14 T •Z: October 15 Thank you for your cooperation Your Yearbook Staff 
Monday, October 11, 1982-page 4 
November 10 









Solidarity calls for strike 
WARSAW, Poland (AP) 
Responding swiftly to the outlawing 
of their independent union, 
Solidarity's fugitive leaders yester­
day called for a four hour, 
nationwide strike on Nov. 10. 

"At every enterprise, and at every department, a clandestine commit· tee preparing the protest of Nov. I0 should be organized," said the state­ment dated Oct. 9 and signed by four ofthe underground union's leaders. 
"The course of the protest will decide the further strategy of the unions." 
The statement called for the strike on the second anniversary of Solidarity's registration by a Warsaw court. 
Noting that Poland's parliament, the Sejm, Friday banned Polish uni­ons and imposed severe limits on any new unions, it said: "solidarity exists and will exist, no matter if someone likes it or not." 
That phrase was taken from a speech by Solidarity's founder­leader Lech Walesa, who along with more than 600 other union leaders has been interned since martial law was imposed Dec.l3 and suspended 
the independent union. 
The statement was signed by the three Solidarity leaders still at large: Gdansk, Zbigniew Bujak of Warsaw and Wladyslaw Hardek of Krakow. signed in place of Wladyslaw Frasyniuk, who was captured last Tuesday. 
The four head the underground National Coordination Commission that has run the union since April in place ofother union leaders who are interned. 
"The commission appeals to working people, to all trade unions for a common boycott of new trade unions," the Solidarity statement said. "We appeal to all working people, no matter to which unions they belong for a massive nationwide protest against lawless­ness and poverty." 
Earlier yesterday, Roman Catholic Primate Jozef Glemp accused mar· tial law authorities of "embittering the nation" and several Warsaw priests urged calm as other signs of protest emerged against the outlaw­ing ofSolidarity. 
Nine senior Solidarity leaders in· terned in Warsaw's Bialoleka prison 
·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 
:Wrltt:rs~ Artists~ i.t:. t~ti2.,U~llt 
t CHIMES t 
t welcomes all contributions or! t ,Prose, Ph.otographyt 

t Submit to: Room 31 o t Madal~va t 
-------_S_!;.~~·~_I 

• 0en !c 
:EN
•

' 0~ 
• ca. 
0 

Throbbing head? Quaking body? Has 
Monday dealt another crushing blow? Revive yourself with a well­
rounded meal from 
Dominds Pizza We'll help 
smooth the wrinkles out of 
your day. 
©1982 Dommo's Pizza Inc. 
Fast... Free Delivery 
Call us. 


277·2151 
1835 South Bend Ave. 
Free 30 minute pizza delivery and 10 minute pick-up service. 
Hours: 11 :00-1:00 Sun.-Thurs. 11 :00-2:00 Fri. & Sat. 
Our drivers carry less than $10.00. Limited delivery area. 

Ir---------------,
I

1  Only  :  
;  $6.99  :  
I 1  Good Mondays Only... Only $6.99 for a 16" 1-item  II  
1 I I  pizza plus 4 Colas (a $2.19 value). Tax not included. One coupon per pizza.  1 1I  
I  Expires: 12/31 /82  I  
1 Fast, Free Delivery1 1835 South Bend Ave.I Phone: 277-2151 ! a•! mm®26213/2650  I I i!  

~---------------~ 
sent a letter condemning the ban and urging workers to boycott new unions. There were unconfirmed reports that Solidarity's under­ground leadership may consider calling a strike next month. 
In a sermon viewed here as moderate, although sharper than earlier public statements, Glemp said: "there are so many examples of the trampling of man, of disrespect for man's dignity. We wish we could free our country from such evil. 
"We learned about the delegaliza· tion of Solidarity as a trade union with real pain," he said, citing the "bitterness of recent days. But we know that what is just, what is ideal and what is good cannot perish." 
The Sejm, or Parliament, Friday banned Polish unions and imposed severe limits on any new unions. 
Glemp addressed more than 10,000 people who converged at the Niepokalanow monastery to honor the Rev. Maximilian Kolbe, a Franciscan friar who was canonized by Pope John Paul II at the Vatican yesterday as the 17th Polish saint in history. 
Kolbe died on Aug. 14, 1941 in the Auschwitz death camp from an injection ofcarbolic acid two weeks after he volunteered to take the place ofa Polish sergeant in a starva­tion bunker. 
... Pastore 
continuedfrom page 1 

sion show was important because it made sure that the Soviet people un­derstand the "non-winnability and non-survivability" of nuclear war. It will be broadcast in the llnited States Wed., Oct. 13, over many public broadcasting stations (9:00 
P.M. on Channel :\4 in the South Bend area). 
After graduating from Notre Dame, Pastore attended Yale Medi­cal School, graduating in 1967. From 1969 to 19""' I he worked on the Atomic Bomb Casualty Commission. Since 1975 he has worked as a car· diologist on the staffofSt. Elizabeth's Hospital in Boston and serves as an associate professor of medicine at Tufts University. 
Acknowledging that two of his five colleagues on the Board Direc­tors of the physicians' group against nuclear war are Notre Dame graduates, Pastore says, " Consider· ing that this organization was formed in Geneva and in Boston ­
the fact that that is true -indicates the kind of moral and ethical con­cern that really has to spring from a place like this, and I think we're going to have to see more leadership from this university in that regard." 
r--·coMPl.ErE·--l 
~ BEAUTY ~ ~ SERVICE ~ ~FASHION ~ ~ FLAIR ~ ~ BEAUTY~ ~~~·· SALON. 
_ 

>  
\  :,  * REDKIN  ~  
~  .  , . . SCIENTIFIC  ~  

~ HAIR CARE CENTER~ 
~ Precision Cuttmg, Perms. ~ ~ Correct1ng Hair Colonng ~ 
\ Next to Cira's Restaurant ~ ~ Evenings by Appt. ~ \ )
-2009 Miami \ 
~ ­
~ 28E-0733 ~ 
·-­
--~....,..·-~ .....,....-·--·----.
·:-:.:. __ ....:.....::­









Editorials 
Monday, October 11, 1982-page 5 
~ ---­


Respite at a crossroads 
My father retired last Friday. After 27 years with a steamship company, he left two days before his 62nd birthday because he could stomach his job no longer. There was no 
Paul McGinn 
Roper Review 
hoopla, no great party, no splendid hand­shakes with executives, only a sigh of relief. He was tired of the psychological game­playing and one-upmanship characteristic of so many large companies. 
Now he stands at a crossroads. He is unable to set out on a quest for fame and fortune, yet he is not content to sit back and collect retire­ment or social security. He is, in a sense, choosing a new career, an avenue by which to finally do what he wants. And he is optimistic. 
Because ofthis tum ofevents, my father and I now share more than ever. We see each other as participants in the same process: we know that the near future brings with it the 
challenges and headaches inherent in any 
vocation. And with this new outlook comes 
the all-too-familiar realization that as I have 
become older, my father has become smarter. 
And I too, am at that fork, deciding what I 
want to do when I pass from this womb ofcol­
lege. This respite has given me oppurtunities 
that my father never experienced. My 
presence here commits me to cramming the 
meaning of humanity into four years, a 
meaning which he already knows so much 
more fully than l could ever hope. 
I constantly complain about the endless routine of classes and insurmountable workload and rarely think of how fortunate I am to be here and about how much my father sacrificed to send me here. And as he begins his long-awaited respite, I become acutely aware ofthe load I must soon carry. 
But while I follow the physical motions of 
academics and extracurriculars, we share in 
Notre Dame. And although forty years and 
1,000 miles separate us, we entrust our hopes 
and fears to one another; we intimate those 
meanings which only father and son can per­ceive. 
Psychologists spew endless criticism of a parent who lives out his dreams through his children, yet I know there is much more be­tween my father and me than simple vicarious 
experience. 

We are committed to the same ideals. We believe in voicing our beliefs and in remaining dedicated to those beliefs: we detest the un­committed Independent who shirks group responsibility; we applaud the staunch Democrat or Republican; we regard the Islas Malvinas and Palestinian crises as prime ex­amples of how stupidly men can act; we criticize the Church's inconsistencies, yet remain ready to support it. 
We no longer speak to one another; we speak with one another. But it has never been easy, nor will it ever be any less ofa struggle. We still scream, curse, and glare at one anoth­er every time we think the other is getting the upper hand. Yet we only use our tempers to vent our frustrat~on. Our targets are necessari­ly those whom we love. 
And as the pressures of work are now lifted from my father, I sense the stress which lies less than two years away. My only hope is that I may cope with that frustration as well as he. 
We have become closer now that I see him so infrequently. We realize how much it means to assert independence and how easy it is for one to encroach upon the other. 
In a sense, we have become of one mind. We have grown from completely separate in­dividuals to become philosophic allies, and yet we have never surrendered our freedom or personal culpability. 
We never solved any great riddle of human relationships. We never experienced a mind­boggling catharsis. We only slowly learned to show each other respect as equals. And I for my part, learned more about dignity from him than I could ever hope to bestow upon anoth­er. Yet because of his retirement, I acknowl­edge that I must pass that same spirit ofhuman worth which he upholds. My only hope is that that dignity I pass on may be as pure as it was when he gave it to me. 
Opening of adoption records: needless pain 
Among the many "social rights" issues being debated in and our of the courts is the opening of adoption records to adoptees. If the courts decide in favor of the adoptees, 

Tom Mowle 
Issues 
they would be able to find out who their natural parents are; the parents would no lon­ger have the'protection ofanonymity. 
The most persuasive argument ofthe aaop­tees' is that they have the "right" to know who their natural parents are. That's very fine, but this supposed right does not hold up very well under questioning. For example, why should they know? Their natural parents do not have 
any rights or responsibilities to the child they gave up. So their parents don't "owe" them anything -certainly not an "explanation" of why they didn't keep their child. Neither does the adoptee owe anything to his/her parents. One can rationalize that the adoptee is in­debted to his/her parents for "the gift oflife." But that is not really true. As a "gift," it does not need to be repaid, and how would you go about repaying it anyway? The best analogy is an anonymous gift, which you accept even though you do not know the donor. 
And what good will the information be to 
the individual? It is not too likely that the 
parents will be thrilled to see their child after 
all these years. 
It should be clear that the adoptee should not impose himself on or expect anything from his natural family, which is not to say that he would not at least be tempted to try to get it if he knew who they were. Ifthe only motive behind wanting to know the identity of one's 
natural parents is curiosity, which is perhaps the only ethical motive, then the argument is reduced to nothing. Even if you do not con­
sider the rights of the parents, it is hard to see what value the knowledge would have. The odds are very low that the natural parents would have been better than the foster parents; very few parents who are able and willing to raise a child would give it up, and very few parents who are unable or unwilling to raise a child would adopt one. 
Since it is possible that I have not convinced you, here is the other side of the dispute: the natural parents gave up their child, whether voluntarily or involuntarily, knowing that they would be protected from future meeting by law. To change that now would violate their trust. It is quite likely that some of the parents would have had an abortion rather than give the child up for adoption without that guarantee. Ofcourse, it seems to me that many of the people who are in favor of opening adoption records are also pro-
abortion, but that is a generalization I probab­
ly should not make. In any case, it would be 
more than a little unjust to change the law the 
parents agreed to. 
The terms of the adoption contract and the natural parents' right to privacy override1> what amounts to, at best, curiosity. Ofcourse, in some medical cases it would be neccessary to open the records, but only to the doctor. Many people simply want to keep their past behind them and do not want a knock on their door from someone expecting handouts. 
As I am not adopted myself, I cannot claim to completely understand the desire to know that some adoptees have. And I must add that not all adoptees possess this desire to the de­gree that others do; they are satisfied with not knowing for sure. Foster parents sacrifice as much as natural parents for their children; it seems ungrateful to insist on knowing your "real" parents. 
P.O. Box Q  
Riuer City packages are ajoke Dear Editor: In light of the recent cancellation of the Who concert bus trip, I regret that I did not write this letter a month ago. You see, I too, was a victim of River City Records. In early September, River City advertised in this newspaper a charter bus trip to the Chicago Bears -Detroit Lions football game at the Pontiac Silverdome. Sandwiches, beer and a 35-yard-line seat were included in the S49 package price. I had several friends and family members that would be attending the game, so it sounded like a good deal. Little did I know what I was in for. On the Friday preceding the September 12th concert, I telephoned River City Records and spoke with Mr. Peter Kernan, the owner, to verity the Sunday morning departure. Mr. Kernan told me that the bus would depart from the store parking lot at 7:00a.m. He also confirmed the seat location and that refreshments would be served. Everything sounds super, right? Wrong. Upon my arrival at River City, a fellow pas­ senger informed me, to my total disbelief, the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students recognize there are homosexuals in the that the charter bus was actually a van and who planned on attending the concert. Mr. community, but few realize there is an or­two cars! Fifteen people crammed into this Kernan offered a complete refund or a bus ganization providing information and sup­van. Mr. Kernan explained that because not package to the December Who concert. As a port for those who have questions about enough people had paid to go to the game, it River City_ veteran, I sugg@st that you con­homosexuality -not only those who are was impossible to charter a bus. Because the sider the aggravation that I encountered on homosexual. but also those with a bus company supplied the refreshments, we September 12th. Your anger and frustration homosexual relative or friend and those had to settle for a box of day old donuts. I could be doubled come December. who just have questions. l'or this purpose had the opportunity to receive a full refund, Eric Parziam:llo there is a post office box for confidential as one couple did, but with family and Fisher Hall treatment of letters: reiends expecting my arrival, I refused the offer. GSND-SMCRe-forming ND-SMC P.O. BOX S81 The bus depart at 7:50 a.m., almost an NOTRE DAME, IN 46556hour behind schedule. We arrived at a Sil­verdome parking lot at 1:00 p.m.; just in time gay community We are a group of gay men and lesbiansto hear the national anthem on the radio. We who have encountered the problems ofwere still over a mile away from the stadium. Dear Editor: being "different." We have had to adjust toThis farce does not end here. r'or those judged "differt>nt" the conse­the social prejudices at Notre Dame and feel,Mr. Kernan had yet to purchase the tickets quences can be frustrating; isolation, loneli­from our experiences, we can assist thosethat were supposedly in his possession! He ness, insecurity and personal unacceptance who need to ease this social burden.made a dash for the ticket window and are just a few of the feelings experienced. Homosexuality is "the last socially accept­purchased upper deck. t>nd zont" seats. He Many overcome these, however, some need able form of bigotry" -Gay Rights Adv­explaint"d that his ticket "source" did not help in dealing with these problems. All of ocate~.. "Homosexuals, like everyone else,come through for him, just as his "source" our community know the feeling of being should not suffer from prejudice againstdid not come through for the Who <.oncert. different, but some must endure this feeling everyday. Homosexuals who have chosen a their basic human rights." -National Con­In short, River City Records is a joke. Mr. lifestyle which, although natural for them, ference ofCatholic Bishops. Notre Dame hasKernan's complete lack of organization has does not conform to another set standard, been in the shadow of the Dome too long. It once again prevailed. This time, he ruined suffer from these problems. is time we step out into the light.the plans of 280 hopeful concert goers. I Many members of the University Gay Students ofND-SMChope that this letter will be considered by all  

The Observer Editorial Board Department Managers 
/I,· 1)/,,·,r,·• ,..1n llhiependc/1: fll'W'I'·lf'<T l'uf>h,hl',i h rhc ,ltrtient' nt till' 
J-:ditor-in-Chi£1·... ...\ti(.·hael :\'lonk Business Manager ......................... ...Tony Aicllo 
'"''"''''''of 1\:ot· !).une du l..t, .uhi S.llflf l\l.tr1·, ( vlk.:c It ,j,,l', r·nl lll\l'".trd} 
.Hmiagill!( Editor.... . ..... Ryan \'cr lkrkmoe~ Controller....... ..............................Erk· '-chulz rdlnt th(' rol,, J(' thl' Jdf!llfll'lf.l!lllfl Ill l'llhcr lfl'lliUittHl The llL"V.' ,, fLJ'llrt 
l:'.n!clilil'£' .\"eu·s Editor.. ......1\.elli !'lim Adt•ertising Manager .......................C:hri' <>wl'n (",1 ·'' .htUIJtell' Jfld .t, ol>tl\11\tll .h l''"';h!t· I:,J,torrJJ, rcprt·,t·nr thl' OJ'I:llon ol 
S.\1( J-:.wcutit•e Editor.. .:\1argaret l'osmoe Production Manager ..................:\laura :\lurph~ .1 m.qt>rtty of the I .!ttorul !\turd ( lldllllJ·nl.trrn. "1'111>011~ Jn,l kttn~ ,If(" dtt' 'tt·w, .\jmrts Editor.. .. .. Chri~ :\ecdle~ Circulation.Wanager. ............... Ra1·lnglin nl th("tr Juthoh <ul,:mn 'f'J,(" '' .11.ul.d,I,· It> .til nlemht·r, vt thl' <011llllllldt}'..tnJ Editorials Editor.. ...Paul ,\ldiinn .\)•stems Manager.......... ...... Bruce Oaklc\ thr fret· exprc\Stun ol \'Jf)'lll); opmtom on cJ.l!lf'U>. through letter>. ,, encoungt'J Features Editor .. ..... Tari Hrown Plmto Edlt<Yr .. . ... Rachel Hlount 

Founded November 3, 1966 
r~-~ ..-.-. -~ -~ ........................................-.~............................ ~~S H0 W C ~~~iiSiiiiiEiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMoiiindiiiayiii,oiiictiiiobiiieriii Iii, I9ii82iiiiiiiipiliageiiii6 
~e large opening night audience sexuality. She is a shrew, we realize us understand how Kate and Bianca 
~ for ND/SMC's Taming ofthe from the start, largely because she's came to he as they are. Baptista Shrew came prepared to he ent t er­light-years away from knowing simply cannot handle his older tained, and they were -by one of anybody who can meet her on her daughter hut he melts when the the liveliest, most successfully own energy level. Lucke's portrayal younger starts her blandishments. realized Shakespeare productions of Kate is compelling throughout, if Ofthe many roles Dunlap has anyone's likely to see on the amateur perhaps with just a shade more created in his years at Notre Dame, 
stage. DirectorJulieJensen, As­

adolescent flounce than it need have this is probably his best. sociate Director Kathleen Maccio, 
had. Jensen and Lucke have chosen All of the cast had obviously and the cast and crew worked some 
-and I think correctly -to em­prepared themselves carefully; first -class thearical razzmatazz in 
phasize Kate's astonishing sexual characterization was well in hand by transmuting Taming for a contem· 
energy. Kevin Finney gives his opening night. SteveJeffirs' Gremio, porary audit-nee. 
Petruchio great visual authority, Bianca's elderly suitor, VI< as amusing alive with swagger and sexual strut. and touching as an old gent with an
LinneQ VQCCQ When these two highly-charged per­eye -if little else -for the ladies. sonalities meet for the first time, it's Hortensio, the eventually-successful as though they recognize in each suitor, was competently portrayed other a manifest destiny. But neither by Michael McKay as just the sort of
theatre review 

is about to succumb easily. stereotypic young lover required to 
Without a doubt, this production For modern-day folks, Taming throw into hold relief Petruchio's ofTaming looks and sounds awfully presents some thorny problems. strong unconventionality. Joan different from what we expect First, there's the matte ofconstruct­Quinlan as the tailor and Robin Shakespeare to look and sound like. ing a palatable overall construction Brown as Curtis, a servant handled But all the changes -and there are of the play. Basically it's "about" minor roles with style and vigor. As more, including some pretty ex­subduing an independent-minded Petruchio's servant Grumio, Peter tensive plot pruning -were made woman, and issue certainly fraught Hendrickson came close to stealing for a purpose that Shakespeare with greater social overtones now a scene or two even from Petruchio would surely have approved. After than it was in Shakespeare's day. Not and Kate, with his very engaging air all, Shakespeare wrote for a popular that the script need be regarded as ofbeing innocently full of himself. audience in his day, and he wrote to absolutely insisting that Kate and the But in fact, ifanybody stole the entertain them. world in general are better offif show, it was the Slys. The Slys-that 
In producing the play for a 1982 women know their place -is, "Frank" Sly, wonderfully played 
audience attuned to macho-libber Shakespeare certainly knew how to by Paul Clay, and Mrs. Sly, Bridget warfare, Jensen and her company write ironic passages. But was he Dolan's tour de force-are easier to took liberties with tradition. For in­doing so when he put in Kate's enjoy than explain. Although much stance, the play has been moved in mouth at play's end a lengthy ex­oftheir dialogue was written for this time and space, to nowadays in the hortation to all shrewish wives to production, they are not entirely a 
American southwest. Elizabeth Bot­shape up and submit their will to new creation. Shakespeare's tum's eye-catching set ofadobe their husbands? Taming has an "Induction," a arches is certainly a great initial Lucke and Finney are well sup­framing scene or two, which in­surprise, but it admirably and flexib­ported in their ongoing battle of the volves a character named Christop­ly accommodates the play's sexes by a company capable of her Sly. Happily for us, the current 
vigorous action. Desi Eartly's sustaining an even and competent production greatly expands the costuming runs to Levi's and granny level ofensemble acting. As Kate's framing device, so that Frank and dresses, again disconcerting at first younger sister Bianca, Anne Marie Mrs. Sly are on stage throughout the 
-after all, this isShakespeare -but Finch skillfully infuses the role with play, commenting on the action and soon enough feeling just right. a languid sexual manipulativeness sometimes even dra~n into it. 
Perhaps the greatest strength (of indifferently aimed any man who The play is scheduled for three many) in the current production lies happens by. The portrayal offers an more performances at O'Laughlin in the success with which the "Kate instructive foil to Kate's refusal to Auditorium, October 14. I 5 and 16. problem" has been solved. Every­make use of her own vibrant Get your tickets early; the crowds thing about Kate, from actress Heidi sexuality until finally she meets her were large enough last weekend, Lucke's first appearance on stage, mate in Petruchio. As Baptista, father and as the word spreads, they'll be bespeaks energy, wit, intelligence, ofthe two women,Jay Dunlap helps larger. 





Collabotation nonteflective of attistic unity 
A 
trend in art in the last twenty the work to succeed. As far as the tended meaning, then "On Retlec­years or so has been a blurring of unity of"On Reflection" is con­tion" fails for several reasons, all of distinctions between the different cerned, I felt that the event which deal with unity. media. For instance, when is a presented a single theme with subtle To begin with, the topic ofthe sculpture a stage set or a stage set a variations. Two dancers -one search for permanence is not equal­sculpture, as in the case ofNoguchi's male, one female, one black, one ly feasible for all media. For instance, work for Martha Graham? There is white, and two musicians -one cel­it is very difficult to dance such an the case of Meredith Monk, who has lo, one flute, one high, one low, per­abstract philisophical concept. Be­never been satisfactorily classified as formed in a black room-like cause the choreographer cannot a choreographer or a playwright or sculpture with shapes and mir­work from this specific concept, she as a performance artist. In light of ror/window type surfaces. The must extrapolate and 11nd a concept, this ongoing trend, the collaborative work seemed to be about the age old several generations removed, which 
yin-yang theme: relationships be­she can portray. Thus the artists are 
tween opposites. The intricacies of not all working from the same con­
gesture between Wendy Taucher cept. and Tommy Gomez, the dancers, The other problem with unity in seemed to tell the story ofan intense "On Reflection" is that, in a multi-or
donee review 
relationship, including the misun­cross-media artwork, all elements work, "On Retlection" thatcame to­derstandings, the explorations of must be equally well executed. gether last Sunday at the Snite self and ofeach other that are Though all ofthe artists were techni­Museum ofArt represents no great carried out in the confines of the cally competent, excellence ofex­art revolution. It does pose some small black rooms ofour lives. The ecution includes the idea of interesting questions for those of us cello and the flute seemed to suitability for purpose. The space 
interested in art. reiterate the relating of the dancers. posed several problems for choreog­The first of these questions, as my In the end, the woman leaves the raphy which were not suitably 
editor discovered, is who does one space only to reappear in the door­resolved. Because of the set and its get to evaluate such a work: the way to look on, as if to say that when location, the dancers were often in­dance critic, the art critic, the the man receives his solitude and visible to the audience.lt is difficult theatre critic or the music critic? freedom (he gazes upwards at the for a dancer to express meaning 
The average viewer has the same dif­hole in the roof) the women, his op­nonverbally. It is impossible for a ficulties in evaluation when it is im­posite and reflection, cannot com­dancer to express meaning invisibly. possible to classify the experience. pletely be gone. Aside from the difference of my 
The second question asks about Sterling interpretation, you say. interpretatior;t and the intended the unity ofthe work. Since there are An eloquent statement on the part of meaning, and the technical no genre boundaries and all ofthe the artists, you exclaim. It would problems, however, the event was elements in a collaborative piece are have been, except that my inter­enjoyable. It represented a welcome presented as a single unit, does the pretation is not what the artists in­sign ofidea exchange across event come across as having a single tended. Instead, the piece was departmental lines. It offered a 
coherent meaning? Along these meant to portray a search for per­refreshing insight O'l the pos­lines, were all of the artists involved manence within a transparent en­sibilities open to all who experiment working from the same concept? vironment. This difference in with multimedia. Although the per­Finally, are all the elements ofthe interpretation and meaning brings formance aspect ofthe event is not project equally well executed? up that much debated question of scheduled to be repeated, Moira 
The second question, that ofuni­whether it is important that the Marti Geoffrion's sculptural space 
ty, is by far the more important, be­audience receive the artist's will be on display at the Snite cause any viewer, critic or meaning or whether it is enough Museum until the 24th ofOctober. otherv.ise, is not equallywell versed that the audience receive any Tom Left's scenario and Paul ON REFLECTION 
in el'.<T)' discipline. nor should the meaning. If it io; important that the Johnson's score art_: :!!?;u un display 
artist expect him to be in onJcrfOr ~e receive the artist's in-~~ :~;: ~)'Shaughnessy Galleries. 



The Observer Features Section 



Monday, October 11, 1982-page 7 
my heto, Cap'n Ctunch 
I""J"1here had never been so many requests. I had bought time for myself, but only a few seconds. ~ Lines were forming, stretching out the doors, and Without any hesistation, I stepped up on a gray folding 
out into the quad. chair; I heard the steel creak, but before it could give Cap'n Crunch is in the dining halls. way, I leapt. I take back almost everything I've ever said about the 
I flew. 
dining halls, SAGA, and the Notre Dame Food Service. 
And flew. Even the cooks, workers, and checker~. 
And flew. Over still-hungover party animals and domers ready­
EdKontady 
ing themselves for a day at the library. Over people talking and people moaning softly. Over instant eggs, burnt toast, spicy sausage, half-empty glasses oforange juice.
features It was a marvelous feeling, the wind in my face, no­thing but the ceiling and sky above me, and peskyMaybe not the checkers. 
people below wondering what the heck I'm doing. TheAnyway, as I was staggering into the dining hall Sun­feeling offreedom is so wonderful up there. There's aday afternoon, I walked past the gleaming fingerprints certain piece of mind one achieves while flying -likeon the silver serving line, holding my chalk-white dish watchingKungFu for 37 straight hours. You feel totally out for more instant eggs. 
in control ofyour destiny, your hopes and dreamsI filled a glass with orange juice, two with milk, and become attainable, life becomes joyous as all ofGod'sthen glanced at the cereal table. 
creatures become infested in His own Glory.
And there, among the Sugar Smacks, Product 19, and 
I started my descent.
Cocoa Krispies, I saw him. 
I could see the rectangular plastic case that held myMy hero. 
goal. Quaker Oats was scratched in blue, that silly manStanding against a background of red ( signifing the with his even sillier hat next to it, also in blue. The frontblood from battles against other breakfast cereals) in his side ofthe box, which the dining hall worker used touniform of blue, that gleam in his eye! 
stake out my claim for a sugar-filled breakfast, became"Oh Captain! my Captain! Our fearful trip is done!" 
larger by the second.
(Walt Whitman-"The Ship ofState.") Quickly I threw my tray on a table, knocked over a For a moment, it looked like the Cap'n himself was 

RSffiC art happening 
looking at me -no, pleading with me to hurry, to get I saw out ofthe corner of my eye two other people half-asleep blonde woman and headed for my breakfast. 
that last morsel ofhis delicious cereal, to make sure that those golden nuggets ofsugar made their new home in a going for my cereal. 
true connosieur, a lover, someone who would respect More than a few people were heard to utter such bewilderedI moved quickly. 
him the next morning. phrases as "What are they? Where did they come from?" orI bumped into a monstrosity ofa man and spun away a It came closer, and closer, and closer. "How did those things get there'" Contrary to the incorrectIa Phil Carter, dodging two girls carrying Tabs (at break­I could almost feel his breath on my face! answers such questions may have received, the painted metal ob­
fast?) with a quick juke to the left, and then slashing I swooped down and grabbed that plastic box and jects were not a child's forgotten toys or the results ofsome occult
away to my right. A checker was carryinga cup ofcoffee and a doughnut back to his post. He was small, 5-6, 155 both of us slid across the table, knocking over those phenomenon taking place at Saint Mary's. pounds at best, so I just put my head down and hulled 
other cereals to the floor, bang, bang, bang, like a right through him. machine gun, but I didn't care at all -I had my Cap'n Scott Williams By this time, this pair ofbreakfast burglars had come Crunch!! within ten feet of my marooned Cap'n. I reached up and swiped a bowl from a woman stand­It was fourth down and twenty feet and time was run­ing where the Frosted Flakes had been, opened up the ning out quick. box, and saw .... features 
I grabbed a tray offthe table next to me and hurled it Two nuggets left. The various purple, blue, green, red, orange, and white rectan­at the two hoodlums. My flying projectile took the first Two. gular metal pipes were the result ofan art project by senior art stu­one by surprise, and he went down like a wounded pup­I clutched one in each hand and thrust them into my dent Angie Michielutti. According to jim Paradis, SMC Art py. The second guy saw my maneuver and ducked mouth. Department Chairman, the students were doing research on both quickly. But when his partner went down, roll-blocking They tasted great. space itselfand the concept ofform and space as types ofsculpture. the second, they made a matched pair. I can't wait until tomorrow. Thus, "a series ofobjects may be placed by color and arrangement to 
create a depth offield." The purpose ofthis project was to create types ofart which both "the artist and the viewer could participate in," commented Paradis. The students selected bQtlHhe site and the kinds of material they would use to create their outdoor
No room at the inn? 
H
sculptures with the intention ofcreating such sculptures that could be termed "a happening," according to Paradis, rather than merely otel reservations. In the course oftorn notebook paper, dropped it those rich alumni ...wait, maybe I 
an observable object. One ofthe four projects created by the class, Michielutti's consisted of 2S to 30 variously-colored rectangularof their lives, very few people in the mailbox, and patted myselfon shouldn't give these places any 
give these two words any serious pipes, sized 12 to 20 inches, hammered into the ground at different
the back for getting it all taken care ideas. I still have one more parent's 
co~ temptation. ofso early. game left -andJunior Parent's heights and angles on the field in front of the Art Building at SMC. The angles, according to Michieluni, did not "represent people,"
Think again. About a month later, I Weekend-and graduation. 
but certainly could have been "the positions ofa person," as the ob­got a card in the mail from Ramada I had now given up on South Bend jects were varied from 90-degree angles for the white ones to aChtis Ftaset saying that they were sorry but they and I was concentrating my efforts laying-down position for the darker ones. The crux of her par­were all filled that weekend. Still on Elkhart or Niles. To mv utter ticular project was to create a sculpture "so the viewer can interpretnaive in my knowledge ofthe dif­amazement, there was still no room space in a different way," commented Michielutti. Thus, "an ordi­ficult task that lay ahead, I assured at the inn. I was going through the
features 
nary field can become a site for art objects." The objects were my parents that there were a lot of Yellow Pages, line by line, calling removed from the lawn on Wednesday, Septemher 29. for securitvThe Bible tells us that Mary and hotels in South Bend and that yes, of each and every place. I was certain reasons, hut will soon be on display again inside the Moreau Art ' joseph were forced to stay in a man­course I would take care ofit. Well, there was a conspiracy against me. 
Building for those who missed the opportunity, but would still like ger because thev hadn't sent in a you know how those sort of things Thus, I was more than a little suspi· to view Michielutti's sculpture. The other three outdoordeposit to the local Holiday Inn (I go and two months later when I cious when a place called the Sham­sculpture projects yielded perplexed expressions and surprisedthink that was how the story went), finally got around to calling places in rock Motel in Elkhart actually gave looks from SMC students during their dates ofdisplay. Thesebut this is merely the exception that the middle of August, I began to dis­me reservations. Not one to tempt projects included a tree wrapping, an outdoor room, and a light proves the rule. The fact is that cover some of the negative effects fate, I journeyed down the toll road, 
sculpture. The "wrapped trees" created an environment in whichmankind's philosophers, hotel reservations could have on my through the streets ofElkhart, across the viewer could "hecome enclosed," according to Paradis. The
theologians, writers, and politicians, life. some ominous railroad tracks, and "light sculptures" consisted ofa group oflights arranged in the treesalong with nearly everyone else, "We're overbooked ten rooms," I finally pulled into the dirt parking hy the students. When turned on at night, they created a stunningcould not care less about hotel was brusquely informed by the clerk lot of the Shamrock Motel some fifty display ofartistic arrangement. The "outdoor room" was an at·reservations. The reason for this, I at Howard Johnson's. minutes later. I don't want to say this tempt to create a room which the viewer could feel a part of, withinbelieve, is obvious. None of these The reservations receptionist at place was sleazy, but my friend an urban setting. The students brought in huge sticks to create thepeople ever had to get their parents Budgeteer thought my request was Chris, who had chauffeured me on 
"room," weaving dead.limhs together to create the structure's ex­
aToom in South Bend during a foot­truly humorous: "October eighth this perilous trip, remarked that they terior.
ball weekend. and ninth?" she giggled, "no self­probably charged by the hour and 

I have -and the experience has respecting establishment has even a that mine were surely the first initiated some personal reactions to broom closet open that weekend." reservations they ever had. hotel reservations (two deceptively Finally, a ray of hope. "I think we It is anticlimactic to tell you that I innocent words) that even Freud can arrange something." said the finally got a room at Quality Inn in couldn't have anticipated. clerk at the Holiday Inn. I heard the South Bend the Wednesday before 
It all began last spring when my fumbling ofpapers and I prepared to the game. How did I do it? Well, in a · parents told me that they had quickly pounce on anything he last ditch effort, I just pretended that decided to venture out to Notre might offer. "How does Indianapolis I was my father and I made up some 
Dame for the Miami football game. sound?" story about my delinquent son who Naturally, I was enlisted to secure I came back to school, still with­was supposed to call for reservations some local accomadations for their out the m1-1ch-needed reservations. I months ago. Now who would two-night visit. I assumed the duty was beginning to understand just believe a story like that? confidently (after all the weekend how valuable a commodity a room Author's note: As you might have was six months away) and in South Bend is during a football expected, I have made reservations proceeded to call the Ramada where weekend. If Adam Smith's (he is the forjuniorParent's Weekend and my parents had stayed once before. I ecomomist, isn't he?) supply and nextyear'sparent's game. Gradua­was informed by the nasal-voiced demand theories were strictly in tion reservations, I'm told, cannot clerk that reservations were only operation, who knows how high the be made more than oneyear in ad­given Ot.!t by '::r!ttrr! r::quesi. So l price ofeven the most paltry rooms vance . .. but I'll be ready come scribbled out a short note on a piece would soar? SI00 ...5200? With all May. 

r--­



Sports =B=r=i=e~~~S====*===========M=o=n=d=ay=,o=c=to=b=e=r=11=.=19=s=2=p=a=ge=s 
By The ( Jhsert•er and The Associated Press Saint Mary's basketball team.wm hold tryouts 
...Baseball 
beginning tonight from 6 to 8 in the Angela Athletic Facility. Try­
outs will continue Wednesday, Thursday and Friday. They will also be held Saturday morning from 9 to II. For more information, call Tim _Dillon at 284-5548. -The Observer 
Stepan Center courtsare now available to halls and groups. Reservations for the Nov. I to April 8 period must be made by Friday, Oct. I5. Reservation forms are available at the Student Activities Office in the LaFortune Student Center. -The Observer 
Irish Invitational action continues for the women's tennis teamsofNotre Dame, Saint Mary's, Central Michigan, Western Michigan, the University ofToledo, and Ferris State this afternoon on Notre Dame's Courtney Courts. -The Observer. 
Notre Dam.e volleyball team lost two of its three matches Saturday, finishing eighth in the IU-PU-Ft. Wayne Invitation­al Tournament in Fort Wayne. They travel to Michigan tomorrow for a match against Southwest Michigan and Kellogg College. -The Observer. 
Notre Dam.e Golfteam is in second place compiling a team score of 399 in first round action of the Mid-America,n Invita­tional at the Moors Country Club in Kalamazoo, Mich. Western Michigan is leading the tournament with a score of391. Frank Leyes is tied for the lead after shooting a two-over par 75. Final round action is scheduled for today. -The Observer. 
Fellowship ofChristian Athletes will hold a meeting in ST. Ed's chapel at 8 p.m. tomorrow. All are invited. ­The Observer. 
Office ofNon-Varsity AthletiCSannounceda deadline of Oct. 13 for entering IH handball, lH racquetball, Grad­Fac racquetball, Co-Ree volleyball, Co-Ree basketball, Faculty vol­leyball, and Grad. volleyball. The deadline for admission to the six-mile run is Oct.20. Further information can be obtained by call­ing NVA at 239-5100. -The Observer. 
continuedjrompage 12 

the third inning to bring the Brewers within one run, at 3·2. Oglivie had missed a game with bruised ribs and had committed two errors before his homer. 
Cards 6, Braves 2 
ATLANTA (AP) -Rookie Willie 
McGee drilled a two-run triple and a 
home run as St. Louis charged into 
the 1982 World Series, clinching the 
National League pennant with a 6-2 
victory over the Atlanta Braves last 
night. 
The triumph, with the help of an­
other door-shutting relief job by 
Bruce Sutter, completed a three­
game sweep of the National League 
Championship Series for the Car­
dinals and put them in the World 
Series for the first time since I968. h 
is the 13th NL pennant for St. Louis, 
which hosts the first two games of 
the World Series against the 
American League Champion Mil­
waukee Brewers beginning tomor­
row night. 
Joaquin Andujar, the National League's pitcher of the month in September when he won five games and had a 0.80 earned run average, throttled the Braves on just two hits over the first six innings. But he tired in the seventh, surrendering both Braves runs on four hits before Sut­ter, who led the league with 36 saves, came on to nail down the vic­tory and the pennant for the Car­dinals. 
The Cardinals gave Andujar a comfortable early cushion, knock­ing out Atlanta starter Rick Camp in the second inning with four quick runs in a rally started by Keith Her· nandez, who opened the inning with a single to left field. 
Camp got two strikes on the next batter, Darrell Porter, but lost him, issuinJt a base on balls. 
When George Hendrick followed 
with a single to right, Hernandez 
dashed home with the game's first 
run. That brought pitching coach 
Bob Gibson to the mound for a word 
with Camp. Th advice didn't do 
much good because McGee drilled 
the next pitch up the alley in right­
center field, scoring Porter and 
Hendrick. The ball got to the wall on 
two bounces and McGee zipped into 
third with his second triple of the 
series. 
On the next pitch, Ozzie Smith, 
who had three hits, singled to cen­
ter, scoring McGee and giving the 
Cardinals a 4-0 lead. 
That finished Camp and the Braves were faced with playing catch-up. But Andujar wouldn't let them come close. 
Then Claudell Washington and Bob Horner opened the seventh with consecutive singles. But An­dujar got Chris Chambliss to rap into a double play. One run scored on the play, and when the Braves added an­other on hits by Dale Murphv and 
Glenn Hubbard sandwiched around a wild pitch -Sutter came out of the bullpen to retire Bruce Benedict on a fly ball. He finished up, mowing the Braves down in the final 
two innings. 
The Cards had turned over two other double plays earlier, both against Jerry Royster after leadoff man Rafael Ramirez had reached base in the first and fourth innings. A diving catch by Hendrick in right field saved him more trouble in the fourth. 


St. Mary's volleyball rolls over Tri-State U. 
ByJUDY McNAMARA 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's Volleyball team 
bettered their record Friday night to 
6-3-1 with a victory over Tri-State 
University. The Belles downed the 
Trojans in three easy games to take 
the match. 
Rita Schubert, Saint Mary's "serving specialist" provided eight points in the Belles first game rout of the Trojans by a score of 15-2. The second game was taken in similar fashion, with Mary Garvey and senior captain Peg ·Pieschel each serving four points to win the game 15-7. The final game, however, was truly a team effort with all players contributing in the I 5-12 third game win. 
"Despite the weak competition, we remained sharp all evening and played well as a team," commented Assistant Coach John Klebba. "Mary Ann Viola played exceptionaly well as our middle setter and spiker, as did all the girls who were played during the victory," Klebba added. 
Sophomore Ann Boutton was an­other stand-out during the match, as she exploded for nine completed spikes (kills) and five points in the final game. 
Pieschel is the emotional leader of this squad, made up largely of fresh­man and sophomores who show much potential for the successful completion of their schedule this season, and in seasons to come. 
Saint Mary's next home match is against Goshen College and Saint Francis College tommorow night at 
6:00 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. 

The Observer will accept class1f1eds Mon· day through Fnday. 10 am. to 4 30 p.m However. class1f1eds to appear 1n the next 1ssue must be rece1ved by 3 p.m. the bus1ness day pnor to 1nsert1on All c1ass1f1eds must be prepa1d. 
\ 

e1ther m person or through the mall. 



Classifieds 
NOTICES 
IS YOUR HAIR GETTING IN THE WAY OF YOUR STUDIES?? CALL MICHOLE FOR A HAIRCUT TODAY! ONLY $4 FOR GUYS AND $6 FOR GIRLS BEST TO CALL AFTER 3 AT 7850 
WORD PROCESSING SYSTEM $2995 64K Mtcrocomputer,letter quality pnnter. word process1ng software. CP/M, Bas1c Call 277 · 7720 
Lake M1ch1gan beach cottage 30 mi. from ND Sleeps 12 Flfeplace Outdoor bar­beque Ideal for housepart1es $150 3 day weekend phone 616 469 0148 
NEED A AIDE TO BUFFALO OVER FALL BREAK--WILL PAY CALL ROB 6721 
Experienced Typist WILL DO TYPING REASONABLE RATES-CALL 287-5162 
STUDENT REP NEEDED to promote our annual Spnng Break lrips to Florida and our Winter Ski trips. Reps. receive FREE TRIPS plus commission. Call or write COASTAL TOURS, INC. P.O. Box 68, Oak Forest, ll60452. (312) 535-3212 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287·4082 
JOB HANK 
FOREVER LIVING PRODUCTS Contact -Roger Thorn · 362· 7276 Posi­tion Available: DislributorsCIRCLE LUM­BER, INC. Contact · Cra19 Taelman · 287·5971 ATHLETIC ANNEX Contact · Tom Lower -272· 7565 Contact · Mark Tobolski · 291·6798 Part-lime positions availaOie WYGANT FLORAL CO. Con­tact: Dorothy DeClerck · 232-3354 Posi­tions available: Driver & Clerk UNITED CONSUMER'S OF SOUTH BEND Con· tact: Andrew Spite • 233-2204 Position Available: Tele./Public AelaliomMILADY SHOP Contact: PaNy Tony -277-3200 Position Ava1lable: Cashier If more in· formation is needed. call Bob Yonchak or Anne Chaps1<1 at 7668. 



FOR SALE 

USED 3 PIECE LIVIVG ROOM SET 250.00-233-2821 

WANTED 


RIDE NEEDED TO WASHINGTON DC-­FOR OCTOBER BREAK CALL BREN­DAN ANYTIME--WILL SHARE THE USUAL-·-7997 
Alders needed to Daytona Beach, Aorlda or any po1n1s along lhe way for Oclober Break. Call Denny al 277·0838 soon 
need a nde to CINCINNATI on OCT brk call TIM 1579 
RIDE NEEDED to Mlnnaaotad tor Oc­tober Break. Call Cathy, 3793. ThanksI 
NEED RIDERS TO CLEVELAND OCT 15·18 call Denms 289·2511 
3 GIRLS OESPER.ATELY NEED RIDE TO DC FOR BREAK CALL 6781 
I need a ride to San Fran for Oct break I r.an leave Thurs. 10/21 Please call Sean at 288·2204. 
NEW YORK NEW YORK NEED AIDE TO NYC lor October Bk Will share usual PLUS good cook1es Call Joann al 6239 
OCTOBER BREAK Need a nde for 2 down to lhe Miami/FI Lauderdale area. Will share costs Please call6965 
need ride to CONNECTICUT for OCT. BREAK Doug x8389 
AIDE NEEDED TO KANSAS CITY (OR TO ANYWHERE ALONG 1-70 WEST OR 1·35 SOUTH) FOR BREAK · WILL SHARE USUAL· CALL KATE AT 4376 
NEED RIDER TO CONNEC· TICUT,FAIRFIAlD COUNTY AAEA,FOA OCT. BREAK CALL TIM 1584 
HELLO!! I REALLY NEED A RIDE TO WASH DC AREA FOR OCTOBER BREAK Will share usual munch1es for I he nde. Call Sara anyt1me x2194 Thanks 
NEEDED: RIDE or RIDES to PITTS­BURGH!!! call TOM. 1754 or BRIAN. 6105!! (for fall break)--PITTSBURGH. pittsburgh, PITTSBURGH. pittsburgh·· 
2 ndes needed 10 Daylon for the weekend of October 15·17 W1ll share usual call Bngette x1333 or Tony x8514 
DRIVING TO OR THRU S DAKOTA FOR OCT BREAK? I NEED A RIDE·CALL MARLENE 2963 
II need a nde ro the Ph1ladelph1a area lor Oclober break. Conlacl Nancy al 4372 S.MC 

LOST/FOUND 
LOST: A navy blue. ZIP down, hghl weather 1acket w1lh a Sexlon label on lhe collar I need 1t badly, 11 lound please call Johnat3625 
LOST-1 lnlroducuon To Jazz nolebook Left allislen•ng cenler Monday mght Call Mark8810 
LOST· 1 Ad1das w1ndbre 1 aker Red w1th hood and slnpes on sleaves Call Mark 8810 
LOST_ Green nolebook & folder Call Steve at 1855 
LOST: ONE BLUE AL300 SlATS BOOK BY ANDERSON ET AL IF YOUVE FOUND ONE RECENTLY OR COULD SELL ME ONE. PLEASE CALL KEITH al1169 
LOST: Tl55 Calculator on Fnday. 9/23 Call John L·Ecuyer al 232·0550. Kathy . lhe one who called about my calculalor Please call me aga1n. You gave me lhe 
wrong number 
FOUND:CALCULATOA IN ROOM at 2t2 CUSHING ON WED OCT 6. 
found: one sel of car keys at Slepan Courts. Owner may claim at Adm1n Lost & Found 

'FOR RENT 
Furn1shed home 2 blocks from campus also country house 10 m1ns from N.D. Call277·3604 or 288·0955 

TICKETS 
IMPORTANT 
Make my Dad a Happy Man! Ineedjust 2 Penn 51 GAs and I have much money to give you. Please call Cindy at 2948. 
WILL PAY BIG MONEY FOR 4 PENN STATE GA TIX. CALL 312-565-5959 COLLECT AND ASK FOR STEVE LONGLEY. 
Need 3 or 4 GA·s lor ARIZONA game 
Please call Tom-3360  
NEED  2  MIAMI  GAS  NAME  YOUR  
PRICE CALL 3242  
FEMALE  RELATIVES  WILLING  TO  

SLEEP AROUND FOR MIAMI GAS CALL ROBO AT x232-4731 ANYTIME 
Wanled 4 11ckels 1n a row lo Anzona game. Call288-0955 or 277-3604 
NEED 6 TICK FOR ARIZONA GAME STUDENT OR GAS PLEASE , CRAZY CREIGHTON STUDENTS ARE FLYING OUT AND WILL BE BUMMED IF THEY DON'T GET TO SEE THE GAME CALL RICH AT t763 
NEED 6 ARIZ GAS·DOUG al6166 
Need 4 Anzona G A's 283-7970 
HELP! Need Anzona tix for fam1ly Call Kalle6781 
my 83·year ·old grandmother and lwo nuns need 3 GAs lor lhe Anzona game Don I d1sappo1nl 3 lnsh·Cathohcs. Th1s 1S for real. Call 3773. 
NEED ANY KIND OF PENN STATE TIX CALL MEG· 7628 DESPERATE. I NEED 2-4 PENN STATE GAS RIGHT NOW--WILL PAY$$$ CALL JIM 3132 NOW·PLEASE!!! 
VOLUPTUOUS LITTLE SISTER has never seen an N.D game! Her LAST and ONLY chance IS PENN ST She and her entourage need 2 GAs and 3 slud. lix Were talk1ng BIG$$ here!! Joe: 1652 
NEED 2 OR 4 ARIZONA GA TICKETS $$$CALL MIKE AT 1475 
BELIEVE IT! I WILL PAY $100 FOR 2 PENN STATE GAS CALL MARGIE 4416555 
NEED PENN ST GAs BIG TIME! $$$ CALL 1627 
NEED 2 PAIR PITT GAs PHIL 1764 

NEEO 4 OR 5 ARIZONA GAs CALL TOM 8729 
NEED 2 OR MORE GAS FOR ARIZONA CALL EILEEN AT SMC 5239 

PERSONALS 

01d you see my ad 1n the t1x sect1on? I 
want your Penn St GA s and money is no object call c1ndy 2948 
Fly cheap lo Boston call Donna 5472 SMC 
Fly cheap to Munster call Karla 4144 SMC 
MISSING DRAMA and SUSPENCE Come see whal1fs all about. Ocl 12,13 Show~ngs 7,9:15. 11·30 Engr Aud 
Four years of drtvell Tomorrow marks Ryan Ver Berkmoes· fourth full year at T/76 Observer Leis celebrale th1s blessed occas1on and buy h1m a d1Ct1onary Who would have guessed that his career would be this long.. _ 
twss DOES THE U.S GOVT TELL US ALL IT KNOWS ABOUT THOSE MISSING'? Show1ng Oct 12.13 Engr Aud 7,915.11:30 

Atten11on all PW Football Fans !!! 
Amenca s Team goes tor 4 tn a row lon•ght as lhey lake on Walsh The PW Fan Club IS sponsonng PW Football Coal & T1e N1ght. so jo1n the fun WEST IS STILL BEST!!! 
CONGRATS RYAN on th1s, the anmver­sary of your bnlhant career at The Ob· server What endurance. what stamtna, what marathon tnsttnct!!! Ryan. you have surely measured up to our expectattons 
the hi rabbll PS Why do you want a dictiOnary now? Are you planmng on be1ng here another four years? 
Send Personals to sophom ·res studying abroad' Messages w1ll w pnnled 1n newsletter tor students 1n tore1gn studtes program Bnng 10 317 Mornssey or 212 Pasquenlla West 
. THE GREAT CAKE DEBATE Who do you th1nk has the n1cest Cakes on Campus? Call 8894 and vole for e1ther Bnan or M1ke 
TRUE TALE TO BE TOLD ABOUT IN­lERNATIONAL COVER-'UP MISSING Ocl t2.13 Engr Aud 7.9.15,11.30 
Dont m1ss lhe flrsl meellng olthe Central Amencan Act1on Awareness Committee Monday al 6:30 1n LaFonune L1ttle Thealer' 
Don't miss the flfst meellng ol lhe An11 Quadnlateral club-be there or be square! 
That the SUN Will set1n lhe DRY West IS AN obnoxious presupposltton 
Buy Observer Class1fieds al the new Ob­server off1ce tn Regma South basement Hours. Monoay lhrough Fnday. noon 10 3 
p.m and g•ve that guy a thnll hell soon lorgel oust kidding) 
FOXALERTflf 
&<o$ 1n Do Do Do Do 
but the most amazing thing to me is : g:t J)!!!!! !!!r tJ~!~g !tJis 

The Observer Monday, October 11, 1982-page 9 
Irish delllolish TMI in JVfootball gatne 
Notre Dame's JV football team ing a long gainer of64 yards and two upped its record to 2-0 with a 64-25 touchdowns. Jan bettuek was next plastering of the Tennessee Military carrying 8 times tor 38 yards and Institute yesterday on Cartier Field. two touchdowns. 
After trailing by scoresof 1 0-0 and Hal Von Wyl and Chris Stone 1 7-14 in the first quarter the Irish of­shared the kicking duties for the fense exploded for 3 7 second­Irish with neither missing a scoring quarter points to take control of the opportunity. No Notre Dame kicker contest. has missed an extra point or a field 
Putting on the offensive show that goal this year. ran up 484 yards of total offense The JV team is scheduled for two were Quarterbacks Todd Lezon ( 6-more home games this year -an 9-I 16 yards) and Kevin Smith (5-8-October 24th meeting with Illinois, I09 yards), each throwing for a and a Halloween game with Cincin­single touchdown. Their prime tar­nati. gets on the day were Bumper Schiro ( 5-85 yards-I TO), and Brian Be­hmer (2-66 yards-I TO). Smith also 
write the sports .Hditor
caught one pass for 35 yards. The running game was also in high gear with Lester Flemmons rushing 
P.O.BoxQ 

for Ill yards on 15 carries, includ-

THOMAS JAND ALBERTA V 
\ V /HITE CENTER WFORLAWAND GOVERNMENT 



Wednesday, October 13, 1982 Libra Auditorium 1 :15 .m. 
lAW S~~UUl ~Al?A~A~t 
Over 35 schools represented Stepan Center Wed., Oct. 1 3, 1 0 a .m . -4: 30 p.m .
0..
.•  
'.;:!-- ·.., ~ ~..  .  /  ~  
~  





IRISH NIGHT 
AT 
Saint Mary's Clubhouse 
Come and enjoy the music of Jim Corr and Friends Authentic Irish Band 
""'1,­

Wed. night 
9 p.m. 



Larry Moriarty (left) sprained an ankle and available next week againstArizona. Seefootball Kevin Griffith (right) bruised a knee in action special on p.JO. (Photos by Rachel Blount). Saturday against Miami. Both should be 
•c• VQ~ATIQN 

Theme -Discerning God's Call Focus -Religious life as a Brother Place -Columba Hall, Notre Dame Dates Nov. 5-7, Friday 8:30pm to Sunday 12:30 pm Contact-Br. David Baltrinic, c.s.c. 
103 Columba Hall Notre Dame, I N.46556 
•
r (21~) ~3~ -7830 • • 





WAs~iNGTON INTERNsHi 
.., .. n.r;rs o· Sen1or~ :.··~1 n J 0 i'h·eriiqe nterestPCJ 1n ~nr •< J'PSS? Ei1rn 1fi crPOI!S on Cdp.tol· H111 
• Un1que lnternsh1ps t'Jase<J nn your 
'l!erests Work w1th members of Con­qress nl the1r off1ces ano on thr:1r com­
•n !tees • Semmars w1th leacJ1nq qovernrnent 
exJ.Jerts focus1nq on current pOliCY ·Ssues 
• 
Washmgton Faculty headecJ ~JY the cha1rman of the Congress1onal Intern AdVISory Counc11 

• 
D1scuss1on Groups to share 1.nfor­rnat10n ana op1n1011S w1th fetlow student part1c1pants from around the coLJntry 


Fil1ng oeadl1ne for Semester 
II November 1 For appl1cat1ons ancJ ,nformatiOil 
,. 
The Observer Sports Special-hish 16,Miami (Fla.) 14 Monday, October 11, 1982-page 10 
Memoto Miami 
Neverunderestimate tradition 
Going into Saturday's ND-Miami game, I was unsure 
just how the whole thing was going to turn out -that 
is, until I got hold of a copy of Friday's Miami Hur­
ricane, the Miami student newspaper. 
I knew that Miami had a tough defense, a coach with 
pro experience and a substitute quarterback who, al­
though not quite as good as his predecessor, had a lot of 
talent in his own right. 
What I didn't know was that Miami, its coaches, its 
players and its students had an irreverently cocky at­
titude. 
But as I read through Friday'sHurricane, I knew that 
Notre Dame was going to win. 
Here are some excerpts from that edition: 
"There is a lurking suspicion thatyou have notreal­ly arrived untilyou can invade South Bend and beat 'the damned Gipper.' Miami has never done that. Tomorrow they willget the chance to dojustthat. They will." -jean Claude de Ia France, Sports Editor. 
"We are not worried about their stadium, their traditions, the damned Gipper or anything like that." 
-Kim Helton, Miami assistant coach. 
"There is a degree ofconfidence on this Hurricane team that will make them come out and chase the ghosts ..."-Our buddy jean Claude, again. 
That was Miami's attitude entering Saturday's game -forget the tradition and the "damned Gipper," we're going to win. 
Instead, the Irish won the game, 16-14, on a last­minute field goal by Mike Johnston, and thereby penned still another chapter in their never-ending book ofgreat comebacks and miracle finishes. 
What made it miraculous was not so muchJohnston's 
kick -the guy hasn't even come close to missing this 
year -but that the Notre Dame offense was able to 
move the ball with authority, almost at will, at crucial 
points in the fourth quarter. 
It was almost as ifthere were a 12th man on the field 
for the Irish. 
The ghost of George Gipp, perhaps? Nah, you say, it 
couldn't be. 
Well, then, who mysteriously opened up those 
gaping holes for Phil Carter on the final drive, when 
none were to be found earlier? And who helped Miami 
call that ill-advised quarterback sneak on third-and-two 
when the Hurricanes desperately needed a first down 
with two minutes left? And who huffed and puffed to 
make suce Johnston's field goal slipped inside the 
upright? 
George Gipp and all other Notre Dame football legends have been questioned and attacked over the years by scores of jealous rivals. 

Last week, the mystique came urrder heavy attack by some overconfident Miami folks, some of whose com­ments you read above. It is that general feeling, instilled by Coach Howard Schnellenberger, that sent Miami to its sixth straight loss at Notre Dame Stadium. 
Schnellenberger is the most envious of all. He's en­vious of schools that get more national publicity, have more financial support and have a more storied past than his. For this reason, he hates the big-time, big­money schools. 
But, hopefully, Schnellenberger learned his lesson Saturday -that those who fail to respect history and tradition end up becoming part ofit. 
Ofcourse, the Irish players and coaches were respon­sible for Saturday's victory, not some past "tradition." 
But, as everyone knows, tradition is an important part of every Notre Dame football team, and opponents must prepare for that aspect as much as they must get ready to stop Phil Carter, Larry Moriarty, Blair Kiel, et al. 
And when I discovered that Miami was taking this "tradition" business very lightly, I knew the Irish would win. 
After the game, Irish center Tom Thayer had an 
interesting story that pointed out the Hurricanes' com­
placency. 
Following Miami's crucial interception of a Kiel pass in the end zone with 2:58 to go, Thayer ran into Hur­ricane middle guard Tony Fitzpatrick as the teams left the field. 
"Fitzpatrick came up to me and said, 'It's over,"' 
recalled Thayer. "And 1said to him, 'This is Notre Dame 
-it's never over."' 
The Notre Dame football tradition can be magical, mystical, almost eerie at times. But it is real, not a myth; opponents should accept it as part ofthe game plan and attack it accordingly. 
But it should never be laughed at, sneered at, cursed or just plain overlooked. And that was Miami's fatal mistake Saturday. 


• • .Adversity 
Irish defensive end Kevin Griffith (56) caused this fumble when he sacked Miami quarterback Mark Richt in the second quarter. Mike Gann recovered the fumble, which set up ND's first touch­down. (Photo by Ed Carroll) 
continuedfrom page 12 
of Richt in the second quarter led to a fumble that was recovered by Mike Gann. Three plays later Kiel broke the scoreless tie with a six-yard TD run. 
There was the familiar sight of Gerry Faust raging with a vengeance on the sidelines over what he felt were unjust calls made against his club. 
There was the familiar sight ofthe conservative, but effective, passing attack implemented by Assistant Coach Ron Hudson this year as Kiel completed 21-of-33 passes for 167 
yards. 

Finally, there was a familiar dis­
gruntlement by the fans for the 
second week in a row that perhaps 
the offense was too conservative. 
After Richt's 79-yard rocket ro Rocky Belk with 13:03 left in the game, however, there was the un­, familiar sight this year of the Irish 
having fallen behind. 

The wills and desires of the Notre 
Dame players, questioned through­
out the 1981 campaign, was now put 
to the test against the powerful Hur­
ricanes, who clung to a 14-10 lead. 
What ensued was a battle that had everything but the main theme of Chariots ofFire blaring through the stadium. 
"You push harder, you bear down more, you run faster, and you hold onto your blocks longer when it counts," said Thayer. "It takes a lot of pride. We proved a lot." 
In those final 13 minutes, Notre Dame had the ball for three posse­sions that produced 1 5 1 yards and two Mike Johnston field goals. In its nine previous possesions the offense managed only 210 total yards. 
"Gradually as the game went on we got better," said Kiel. "That's one ofour goals:" 
Carter, who had gained only 33 yards on his first 13 carries, picked up 59 in 11 carries on Notre Dame's final three drives. Kiel, meanwhile, completed five-of-six passes on the final drive for 39 ofNotre Dame's 55 yards gained in that drive. . 
The defense also came through when it counted the most. After its touchdown, Miami gained 12 yards on six plays on its last two full posse­sions. ln its last full possesion Miami needed only two yards in two plays to pick up the clinching first down. But sophomore Mrke Golic, in for the injured Griffith, stopped Speedy Neal for no gain: A questionable quarterback sneak by Richt on third down gained only one yard as middle lineoocker Mark Zavagnin stopped him cold. 
"We knew we had to stop-them as quickly as we could and get the of­fense the ball," said Zavagnin. "I was a little surprised by their third down play -but that's something they have to live with, not us." 
All of which set the mob scene at the end as Johnston booted his 32­yard field goal with just 11 seconds showing on the clock. 
"When we were marching down· the field, l tried not to think about 

·what was going on out there," said Johnston. "l just kept kicking the ball in the net on the sidelines and tried to stay loose. 
"Sure I was nervous (when he 
went in), but when you get into a 
situation like that you just have to let 
your mind go blank and concentrate 
on kicking the ball. I knew it was 
good when I kicked it -then I went 
crazy." 
Johnston, and his teammates, had 
good reason. 
"The Notre Dame football team 
showed a lot of heart and a lot of 
character," praised the jubilant 
Faust. "They came away from a lot of 
adversity and played a heckuva foot­
ball game." 
As Parseghian would tell anyone, 
adversity does that for you. 
IRISH ITEMS -Kevin Griffith and 
Larry Moriarty are both expected to 
be ready for the Arizona game next 
week...Griffith sustained a knee 
bruise while Moriarty suffered a 
sprained ankle... Moriarty is now 
averaging 6.2 yards a,carry after 
gaining 66 yards on nine carrys on 
Saturday...Mike Larkin and Mark 
Zavagnin each had nine tackles to 
lead the Notre Dame 
defense... Larkin has now led or tied 
the team in tackles this season in all 
four games... Miami gained only 67 
yards rushing in 31 attempts... Richt 
completed 12-of-25 passes for I 5 I 
yards and two touchdowns while 
throwing one interception to Zavag· 
nin. 
Sports Special design by ChrisNeedles 

• 
. 
-< 
. 

Hurricanes 14, Mike JohnstonlO, 

NotreDame6 
Saturday's G..,. Mtamt (Fla.) 0 0 7 7 14 Notre Dame 0 7 3 6 16 
Scoring 

NO -Ktel 6 run (Johnston ktek) 
UM -Denmson 1 pass from Rteht (DaviS ktek) 
NO-Johnston 29 FG 
UM-Belk 79 pass from Rtcht (Davts ktek) 
NO-Johnston 42 FG 
NO -Johnston 32 FG UM NO 
F1rstdowns 10 21 Rushtng attempts 31 50 Net Yards -Rushtng 67 197 :Net Yards Passtng 151 167 Passes comp-attempted 12-26 21-33 Had Intercepted 0 0 Total Net Yards 218 364 Fumbles-los\ 4·2 1·0 Penalties-yards 5-46 10-105 Punts-average 8-42.7 9-446 
Individual La-ra RUSHING -Mtamt (Fla.): Gnfftn 10-49: Neal 10­
19: Rush 2-5. Notre Dame: Carter 24·96: Monarty 9­69. Ktel6·21. Ptnkett 6-20: PASSING -Mtamt (Fia ): Rtcht 12·25-1. 151: Rush0-1-0, 0: Notre Dame. Ktel21-33-1. 167: 
RECEIVING-Mtamt (Fla.): Neal4-25. Beik 3-90. Denmson 3·30: Notre Dame: MO<tarty 6-34; Carter 4­46: Howard 4-46: Hunter 3-27, Pearcy 3-20: 
Attendance-59,075 

lhe~====================================== 


~~4()l~~===========================M~~=n=d=ay='=O=c=t=o=be=r==11=,=1=9=8=2===p=a=g=e=l::l
Doonesbury 




·Movi·E·;;;·o·v·ie.Mtiv·ie··M·ovi·E·Movi·E·Mo·vi···
.................................................................................... 
~--EARN EXTRA$$$-~.­
..

rtotre Dame Student Union presents: 
K.'D. SWdacf lLcitm 

i6~~1Ul~~bftllce






rEa·s·f··o·r·i 
= E~ ftn = ' ,~9..9,§.qp~t
i ~ i alrquire for applicationfrom secreta 
•••••••••• ••• •••••••••••••••••• $ 1 I inSU 2rd floo laForture
LaFortune Ballroom 7. 9.& 11 p.m. 1 r .~9.V.~.~-~9.!~.~-~.9.~~~-~.9YJ~.~~~.!~.~~~~....~DLINE WEDNESDAY Oct. 13 5 

Simon 
HOW I~ IT COMING'? 

5lMCIN ! YOU'VE 'BE EN 

c~E 0111...~p ME: 
T'fPE. IT ~ YOU.

itl'IN6 ~ ~lOVEN 1\00R:i!
\ 
\



In The Rough 

HAT's HE GotJIJfJ W 'i' 'TuHP OUT THE \ W11100v. 
ALL 



ACROSS 24 Be incon· 1 Party for siderate men 26 Use soap 5 Johnson, and water 


The Daily Crossword 
the comic 27 Pointed 9 Eskimo instrument vehicle 30 At-sea 13 Irish confinement Gaelic 31 Ave ­14 Close by, 32 Philosopher to poets -·tzu 15 Minute 33 "Let us 
amount have faith 16 Odets play that-" 19 Counts 37 Equal: pref. 20 Entrance 38 More astute 
fees, of 39 Avant· 
a kind gardists 21 Unctuous 40 Confronted 22 Hemingway, 41 "Yes,-" 
to inti· 42 African mates capital

Saturday's Solution 





Garry Trudeau 
Campus 
•12:
15 p.m. -Workshop Lecture, "The New In­ternational Economic Order: Ethical Dimensions," Prof Denis Goulet, Notre Dame, Library Lounge 

•4:30 
p.m. -Chemistry Lecture, "Novel Ap­proaches to the Asymmetric Synthesis of Biologi­cally Active Oligopeptides," Dr. lwao Ojima, 123 Nieuwland Science Hall 

•6 
p.m. -Monday Night Film Series, "October," Annenberg Auditorium, S2.00 

•6:30 
p.m. -Organizational Meeting, of the Central American Action Awareness Committee, LaFortune Little Theatre 

•7 
p.m. -ND/ SMC Young Democrats Meeting, 2nd floor LaFortune 

•7 
p.m. -Regular Meeting and Bible Study, Bulla Shed, Sponsored by Baptist Student Union 

•7:30 
p.m. -Writers and other Troubadours, Bill O'Rourke, Cornucopia Restaurant, S1.50 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, On the History of Philosophy, Prof. John Cooper, Princeton, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 

•9 
p.m. -Monday Night Film Series, "The Bride Wore Black," Annenberg Auditorium, 52.00 


T.V. Tonight 

6p.m. 
6:30P.M. 
7p.m. 
7:30p.m. 8p.m. 
8:30p.m. 44-B'rlth 17 lnflamma· 
9p.m. 
10p.m. 46 "The-18 "The Rise Archipel· of Silas-" 22 Kitchen 
45 Ship's pole tion: suff. 
ago" 

10:30p.m. 16 Tonight Show 49 Musical gadget 
22 Trapper John and Columbo variation 23 Sale words 
llp.m. 28 Newswatch 28 52 Hemingway 24 Revolt 
11:30p.m. 16 Late Night With David Leiterman book 25 Prejudiced 
28 ABC News Nightline 56 Sole one 57 Lizard 26 Arouse 58 Drudgery 27 Horatio­59 Inquires 28 Cryof .an The saga of a 
60 Toy on a exuberance 
Brl 
6 month old domer.
string 29 Building 61 Vortex sites 30 Point of 
DOWN overflow 1 Usea 31 Kenya 
needle people 2 Minecar 34 Pang 3 Eastern 35 Insulation 
land mass material 4 Become 36 Novice 
inflexible 42 Magna­5 Infuriated 43 Concerning 6 Kin of umps 44 Uncovers 7 Chinese 45 Port in 
creative Sweden 

principle 46 Hightime 8 Gowrong 47 Airborne 9 Tuscany objects 
cultural 48 Thin-bodied 

center 49 Be sportive 10 Barn area 50 Walked 11 Cigarend 51 Along with 12 "Happy-53 "The-of 
are here..." All Flesh" 


14 Anoint, 54 Self-esteem old style 55 Tricky 
16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 2H 
34 The MacNeil/Lehrer Report 16 M*A*S*H 
22 Family Feud 
28 Tic Tac Dough 
34 Straight Talk 16 Little House on the Prairie 22 Square Pegs 28 That's Incredible 34 Great Performances 22 Private Benjamin 16 Monday Night at the Movies: "Touched by Love" 22 M*A*S*H 28 ABC Monday Night Football 22 Country Music Association Awards 34 Light in the West 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22Eyewitness News 34 The Dick Cavett Show 

f 
t 
r 
Monday, October 11, 1982 -page 12 
[ SRorts 
Irish 'come of age,' beat Miatni on late FG 
By LOUIE SOMOGYI 
Sports Writer 
"Adversity elicits talent which under prosperous conditions would have remained dormant." 
-Ara Parseghian 

There was perhaps one significant question that still needed answering before the Miami game about the 1982 Notre Dame football team. 
How would it respond in adverse situations in game conditions? 
Quarterback Blair Kiel along with many of his teammates perhaps found the answer in last years 37-1 5 season-ending debacle at Miami. 
"We learned that you win and lose on the football field and that the Notre Dame tradition can't win it for you," he said sadly after the loss. 

The lessons learned from last year's disappointments came to full fledge in the fourth quarter ofSatur­day's stirring 16-14 Irish victory, when Notre Dame fell behind for the first time this year. It was not a time for disappointment and fear. but one of revival and hope. A time not for wallowing in self-pity, but for reach­ing back for the most of what inner resources were left in their already exhausted bodies. 
"Last year we would fall behind and we would start to hang our heads," admitted newly converted center Tom Thayer after the game. "I think we really came of age today." 
Falling behind on the scoreboard wasn't halfofthe hardship, though. 

"We had some really bad calls against us out there" said fullback Larry Moriarty of the I05 penalty yards assessed against the Irish. "We had too much pride though to lose to Miami again." 
"You can't depend on the referees to be always right," echoed defensive tackle Mike Gann. "We kept our composure when we had to." 
Football Special 
--page 10 

The composure was most evident after Blair Kiel threw an intercep­tion in the Miami end zone with only 2:58left in the contest. 
"It's over," Miami middle guard Tony Fitzpatrick told Thayer after the interception. "It's over." 
"They were somewhat mouthy out there," said Irish tri-captain Phil Carter. "But I knew the defense could do the job and hold them. I believed all along that we would have one more try." 
For the first 47 minutes, it seemed like the question of how Notre Dame could handle adversity would remain moot, as the game was following the same script as pre­vious Irish games this year. 
There was the familiar sight of the 
Notre Dame "Gold Rush," led by 
mainstay Kevin Griffith, wreaking 
havoc upon Miami quarterback 
Mark Richt. Griffith's crunching sack 
See ADVERSI1Y page 10 

Mike johnston kicked a field goul with 11 seconds left on the clock to give Notre Dame a 
Win league titles 
Brewers, Cards advance to Series 
MILWAUKEE (AP) -The Mil­the World Series. 
waukee Brewers capped baseball's Their backs against the wall in the greatest comeback, riding a two-run closing days of the season, the seventh-inning single by a struggling Brewers turned adversity into vic­Cecil Cooper, to a 4-3 victory over tory by winning the last three games the California Angels in Game Five of of this best-of-five playoff. No other the American League Championship team had accomplished that feat in Series yesterday, winning the pen­the 13 years ofleague championship nant and earning their first shot at play. In fact, only one other team ­
Hunter gets 1 OOth win 
Irish defeat Louisville, tie WMU 
By AL GNOZA 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame soccer team headed into this weekend's action hoping to hand Head Coach Rich Hunter his 1 OOth win. However, a 1­1 tie with Western Michigan on Friday night held Hunter's ledger at 99. 
After a sluggish start yesterday, the turn of events worked to Notre Dame's advantage as the University of Louisville was whistled for a push in front of its goal and Irish forward Kenny Harkenrider scored on the subsequent penalty kick to put the hosts up 1-0. The Cardinals then folded as the Irish rolled to a 4-0 win, giving Hunter his 1OOth career vic­tory. 
Harkenrider's blast into the top 

right corner ofthe net at 24:20 ofthe first half proved to be the game-winner. He would later add another tally. Rich Hertegen also scored twice. 
"Their goalie just pushed one of our guys from behind," said Harken­rider. "I couldn't understand their complaining, it looked pretty flagrant to me." 
Less than ten minutes later Her­
tegen took advantage of some loose 
play in front the Louisville goal and 
belted one home to give Notre 
Dame a 2-0 halftime lead. 
"Overall, I could tell that we were 
a better balanced team," remarked 
Hunter. "They had one or two 
chances to score early but then we 
pretty much turned it around." 
"Friday night's game was a tough 
one," he continued. "Today's was 
the best game that we have ever scoring. Minutes after McCarthy played. It just goes to show you how made a save at point blank for Notre much the kids have turned this Dame, Hertegen took a cross that season around." had caromed off the goalie's hands Louisville's main offensive thrusts and nudged it into the net for a 3-0 
came mostly from their forward Irish lead. position as Irish goaltender Gerard Then, with less then eight minutes McCarthy was forced to come up to play, Harkenrider scored again with a couple of big saves. But ex-with a shot that darted through the cept for these few breakdowns, the keeper's legs-a scene that typified Irish defense dominated the Car-the Cards' day. dinals so thoroughly that McCarthy "They are a good team," said Hun­would have needed to set up shop at ter. "They are in our region so this midfield to see any action at all. was a pretty important game as far as 
"The wind was prettv much a fac-our getting an NCAA tournament 
tor," commented Harkenrider on bid." the advantage the Irish enjoyed in The Irish will play this Tuesday as the first half. "It was hard to judge a they travel to the University of lot ofhigh balls." Chicago but Hunter sees Wednes­
The second half gave evidence of day's clash with Akron as the next that as two miscues by the Louisville major hurdle on the schedule. netminder resulted in further Irish "That," he said, "will be a big one." 
the 1972 Detroit Tigers -had tied a series 2-2 after losing the first two. 
Needing to win on the final day of the regular season in order to capture their first AL division title, the Brewers did. 
Needing two good pitching per­formances to win Games Three and Four to tie the series, the Brewers got them. 
And, in the deciding game of the 
series, needing one of their best hit­
ters to break out of a series-long 
slump, he did. 
With his team trailing 3-2 in the seventh inning, Cooper came to bat with two out and the bases loaded after singles by Charlie Moore and Jim Gantner and a walk to Robin Yount. He had only two hits in his previous 19 series at-bats. With the count one and one and facing the California stopper, right-hander Luis Sanchez, Cooper slapped a single in­to left field that delivered the tying and go-ahead runs and capped the Brewers' historic comeback 
The pennant came in Harvey Kuenn's first season as a big league manager and it had to have provided the former big league shortstop and former batting coach with some measure of consolation for his tribulations of the past six years. 
Ben Oglivie, with only one pre­vious hit in the series, homered in 
See BASEBALL page 8 


Saint Mary 's tennis sweeps state titles 
By MARY SIEGER 
Saint Mary•'s Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's tennis team swept through the State NAJA Tennis Championships this weekend, winning all of the 2.., matches it played to claim the title. The Belles accomplished this without losing a single set. 
The Belles tallied an incredible 27 points in the tournament, leaving their closest competitor, Hanover University, with a mere I 0 points. Both Saint Mary's and Hanover qualified for the National Championships which will take place in june at Kan~as City. 
lndividu.al champions for Saint Mary's were: Debbie Laverie at number one singles, Maureen Fitzgerald at number two singles, Ann Huber at number three singles, Heather Temofeew at number four singles, Christen Beck at number five singles, Kim Kaegi at number six singles, Laverie and Fitzgerald at number one doubles, Huber and Temofeew at number t"':o doubles, and Beck and Allison Pellar at number three doubles. 
First year toachjohn Killen has much to be proud of He has cer­tainly proven his worth to the Belle's program with his team's fine Irish goalie Gerard McCarthy records a saz•e giving coach Rich Hunter his JOOth coaching z•ic­
showing at the State Championships. 
during the Louisville game. Notre Dame won 4-0 tory•. See story above. (Photo by Glenn Kane). 



