-~ ----------------­
, , .AlumniBoard -page. 7 

THURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 1982
VOL XVI. NO. 71J an indc:-pc:-ndent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
Governlllen t confirllls recesston extstence 
WASIIIN<ITON (AP) The ~o~ovt'fnmcnt. confirming a deep ren·ssion that has hlighted produc· tion and tossed workers off jobs, said ycsterday that the economy fell at thc t·nd of 19H I faste .r than at any time since a record dcdine in the spring of 1980. 
Administration officials, conced· 
ing that things will get worse before 
they gt·t better, renewed their blame 
of forml.'r President Carter for the 
ri.'CI.'ssion that simmered through 
last summer before it hit hard as 
President Reagan finished his first 
year in otlke. 
With consumer sales still sluggish 
and factories cutting output, new 
layoffs will likely push unemploy· 
ment above December's 8.9 percent 
rate before recovery begins in the 
spring, the officials said. 
The Commerce Department reported Wednesday that the inflation-adjusted gross national product -the broadest measure of economic activity -dropped at an annual rate of 5.2 percent in the fouth quarter of 1981. 
That was the sharpest drop since the record 9.9 percent annual rate in the spring quarter ofthe \980 reces· sion. 
Trl.'asury Sn·rl.'tary Donald T. 
Rt·gan said thl.' I.'C<>nomy will likely 
drop at an annual rate of up to 2 per· 
n·nt in the current quarter, but he 
said thl.' administration is not to 
blaml.'. 
"We inht·ritl.'d this mess," Regan 
said in rl.'marks prl.'pared for a group 
of administration appointees Wed· 
nl.'sday. "Those who blame 
Reaganomics for the current slump 
must bdit·vc in rl.'troactive causa­
tion." 
lie and oOlt·rs in th administration say their push for the tight money policy by thl.' fl.'deral Rl.'serve Board -which many private analysts say was a main cause of the rl.'cession ­was necessary to fight inflation. 
And Deputy Comml'fCI.' Senetary Joseph Wright Jr. assertt·d that "this rt·cession stt·mmed from policymakers' earlier failure to come to grips with deeply em­bedded inflation." 
Disagreeing, Democratic Rep. 
Henry Reuss, chairman of the Joint 
Economic Committee, said, "The 
sorry state of the economy is the 
direct result of President Reagan's 
program of huge tax cuts for the af. 
fluent, sharp increases in <,lefense 
spending leading to gaping deficits, 
and the tight monetary policies of 
the Federal Reserve, carried out at 
the administration's behest." 
The new report said "real," or inflation-adjusted, GNP rose 1.9 per­cent for all of 1981, mostly because 
of the robust 8.6 percent growth at an annual rate in the first quarter, as Carter was leaving office and the Reagan administration was taking charge. 
Real GNP declined 0.2 percent in 1980. Gross national product is the retail value of all goods and services produced by the nation's economy. 




Profs Goulet, Norling conduct nuclear panel 
University Provost Timothy O'Meara (right) last night in the Center for Continuing Educa· answers questions at the Facu/~y Senate meeting tion. (photo by Tonia Hap) 
ByJIM McCLURE 
StaffReporter 
Professors Denis Goulet and Ber· 
nard Norling presented views for 
and against nuclear arms in a panel 
discussion held last evening in 
LaFortune Student Center. 
"Running after more weapons has not in fact creatt:d more security," Goulet said in his opening remarks. Norling later stated that "arm:~ments building is a symptom, not a cause of the problem." 
Each speaker made an opening statement of approximately 25 minutes before the floor was opened to questions from the audience which overtlowed the small Social Concerns Alcove in Lafortune. 
In his opening remarks, <ioulet stated that economic, political, and 

social security arc as important as military defense concerns. "Securiity is a holistic thing--it can­not be reduced to one dimension." Goulet, William and Dorothy O'Neill Professor of Education for Justice, took the position that the nuclear arms race is self-defeating because it promotes fear among citizens concerned about an arms buildup and also leads to a lack of 
trust in the government. 
Goulet stressed that he was advocating "not unilateral disarma­ment but a meaningful first step by the United States to break the log· jam" of the nuclear arms race. Goulet said this "first step" would have to be on a level with Anwar Sadat's initial overture toward a Middle East peace. 
Norling prefaced his opening 

U.S. effort 

Housewife wants 'Seven 'freed 
By MARIE PRA T 
AssociatedPress 
MONTGOMERY, Ala. ( AP)-She starts the day like 
most any housewife, getting the children up. fed and off 
to sd10ol. Tht·n jant· Drake sets to work trying to free the "Siht·rian Seven" from the Soviet Union. 
"It's more than an eight-hour-a-day job," says Mrs. Drake, a ~5-year-old mother of two who has been at it for thrt·e and a half years. 
Seven Pentacostals -members of a fundamentalist Christian sect -hurst into the American Embassy in .\loscow on Junt· 27. 197H, seeking help in gaining exit visas. They haVl· remained tht·re ever since -nearly lilllr years in a I2· hy·20-Iil0t room in the embassy's TH URSDAy;~~IJii~iftfj
hasemt·nt. And 

:~~~)~);t~:t.:r~~ -~FOCUS 
Drake has not 
thought of them. 
She organized the Society of Americans for Vashchenko Emigration, or SAVE, with a goal ofgetting the families of Pyotr Vashchenko and Maria Chmyk· halov out of Moscow and into American homes. 
The seven -Vashchenko, his wife and three daughters and Mrs. Chmykhalov and her teenage son ­say they have been persecuted because oftheir religion. Mrs. Vashchenko was imprisoned during the 1960s af ter she tlrst made contact with U.S. diplomats in an ef. fort to emigrate. One ofher sons, Alexander, was placed in a Siberian labor camp. 
The Soviets insist that the seven have to return to their homes in Chernogorsk in Siberia before their case will be considen:d. The Pentecostals say they do not trust the Soviet government, and refuse to leave. The 
U.S. embassy has said it will not force them out. 
Mrs. Drake's work has taken her to Washngton, Mos· cow. Bonn and EaM Berlin. put her picture on the cover ofa national Sunday magazine and placed her in contact with diplomats and political leaders. 
She visited the Soviet Embassy in Washington in 1979 
and 1980, including one trip with Sen. Mark Hatfield, 
R-Ore. She said it was after one of those visits that 
Alexander Vashchenko, under pressure from Soviet au­
thorities to disown his parents, was released from the 
labor camp. 
Last week former President Carter joined her in encouraging the seven not to lose hope. Mrs. Drake said her family supports her crusade, with her husband Tony, a veterinarian, paying as much as 
see HOUSEWIFE, page 4 

remarks by saying "It would have been better for the human race if nuclear energy had never been in­vented." He cited the problems and mismanagement that inevitably oc· cur where human beings are in· volved. He added, however, "it's here, and it's not going to go away." The hiswry professor then gave many examples through the ages where attempts at disarmament were ignored and actual treaties vi­olated. He was dearly skeptical of the efft:ctiveness of nuclear disarma­
ment. Norling listed what hi.' felt were two positive consequences of nuclear arms as deterrents. "There has been no major war for 3 7 years," and added that "when tht· weapons art.' city-busting nuckar weapons 
governmemts give and take more from each other." 
Norling expressed hope for the future that some social or scientific breakthrough would eliminate nuclear weapons and the problems that he fc~ls make them a necessary. 


Faculty discusses research, student life 
By MARK ROLFES 
StaffReporter 
Problems in faculty research and 
aspects of student life were dis­
cussed at last night's meeting of the 
Faculty Senate. 
Improving student life neces· 
sitates an increase in social space, 
according to Provost Timothy 
O'Meara, chairman of the meeting. 
The three alternatives dis(.·ussed 
were: building new dorms or 
townhouses without increasing the 
student body in order to increase so· 
cia! space in overcrowded dorms; 
creating small social centers for stu· 
dents; or building one large student 
center. A large student center, it was 
noted, would have to have sufficient facilities to ensure its use by StU· dents. One faculty member, however, expressed doubt that a new student center would reduce the drinking problem on campus. 
Also noted were the problems women have choosing between a career and a family. O'Meara stated that this was a prevalent problem in our society as a whole, not uniquely one at Notre Dame. 
Faculty research was a subject dis· cussed at length. Many faculty mem­bers t~:ach three classes and feel tht:y can not devotl' enough time to rescar(.·h and still be able to prepare well for their classes. 
O'Meara recognized this problem, and expounded on University policy on research. All fa(.·ulty members at Notre Dame both teach and research. This is to preserve what o:Meara calls a "single class faculty." If some teachers were exclusively teachers and others exclusively researchers as is the case at other 
universities, the teaching faculty would most likely be looked down upon as "second class." The llnivcr· sity, however, believes that an l'm· phasis must he placed on undergraduate and graduate educa­tion. 
Another problem with research is lack of funding. Notre Dame has received grants from the federal government, such as for the Radia· tion Lab and other projects in physics and chemistry. Research in the arts, however, has been lacking in funds. Federal spending cuts will reduce this amount even more. O'Meara said it would be "unrealistic to expect the University to pick up the tab due to the large amounts of money involved." 
see FACULTY, page 4 


• 



News Brie s 
Thursday, January 21, 1982-page 2 
By The Observer and The AssociatedPress 
The United Auto Workers pulled out of talks 
with General Motors Corporation yesterday, and both sides 
predicted the breakdown might further depress new car sales. VAW 
president Douglas Fraser announced the collapse ofthe talks shortly 
after noon, saying the two sides were deadlocked on economic and 
job security issues. He refused to elaborate. He said he would let the 
VAW's 300-member GM bargaining council decide whether to 
revive negotiations when it meets Saturday in Washington. Parallel 

bargaining at Ford Motor Co. had been in a holding pattern while the VAW concentrated on the GM talks, and Frasr said he doubted an agreement with Ford could be reached by Saturday. GM's top bar­gainer as well as Fraser warned that Wednesday's breakdown could plunge the depressed industry into deeper trouble. -AP 
Western Europe is using the same tough words as the United States to condemn Polish martial law, but has yet to match American actions against the military regime or its Soviet ally. Nearly two weeks ago, U.S. Seuetary ofState Alexander M. Haigjr. exhorted the Europeans to act, saying "We have spoken with one voice (about Poland). We created a clear and united framewok for action. Now we must act." President Reagan said Tuesday that U.S. sanctions against Poland and the Soviet Union have had some impact and he hinted he might take more such steps. The Europeans, many of whom express doubt about the effectiveness of the U.S. sanctions, met earlier this month to discuss Poland. In. meetings of the Com­mon Market and the North Atlantic alliance they said they would "consider" and "examine" possible actions, but little has yet 
emerged. -AP 
Researchers say people with breathing difficulties of· ten die at night from heart problems caused by a lack of oxygen. Doctors from the University Hospital of Wales linked nighttime heart problems with low oxygen levels in people with chronic obstructive airways disease. They concluded that lack of oxygen contributes to heart failure in these patients, and heart irregularities were frequently reduced if patients breathed oxygen-enriched air while they slept. The study was conducted by Drs. V.G. Tirlapur and 
M.A. Mir and published in Thursday's New England journal of Medicine. -AP 
The dean of Williams College has been ap­pointed to arbitate sexual harassment cases until faculty meet to discuss handling of such matters, college President john Chandler announced. The action followed last week's protests by students, who said two male students accused ofsexual harassment were not disciplined adequately. Dean Daniel O'Connor was appointed Tues­day to temporarily replace a disciplinary board that put the two male students on probation last semester. Williams Against Sexual Harass­ment, a coalition of students at the private northwestern Massachu­setts liberal arts school, criticized the board. O'Connor will handle sexual harassment matters until the faculty studies disciplinary 
procedures. The faculty was scheduled to meet Feb. IO.-AP 
A law school graduate convicted of harassing Caroline Kennedy has been committed for psychiatric treatment with charges against him dismissed. Kevin King, 35, of Palo Alto, Calif., was committed to Manhattan State Psychiatric Center Tues­day. He was being transferred to a California psychiatric facility yes­terday, according to the Manhattan district attorney's office. -AP 


A New Senior Bar-And More 
Within the confines of the Golden Dome, a decision 
has apparently been made about the fate of the Notre 
Dame Alumni-Senior Club. Senior Bar as we know it 
stands to be demolished in four or five months to make 
way for a new structure. 
Shed a tear for the grand old house but face reality: 
the place is a firetrap and woefully inadequate during 
peak usage times such as football weekends. I've dis­
cussed the future of the bar in this column before, 
primarily from a management point of view (i.e. there 
should remain a significant amount of student and 
alumni control in any future enterprise). Today, the 
focus will be structural. 
The gist of the argument is this: the construction ofa new senior bar building offers a unique opportunity to improve social-life on the ND-SMC campus. Students have talked, screamed, and argued about the need for an updated student center on the campus for years now, with little effect. This could be the chance to get moving on the issue. I'm not proposing that the Univer­

sity turn the senior bar into a full-line student center: that is neither financially nor philosophically accept­able to most students and alumni, let alone the ad­
ministration. Seniors and alumni don't want bowling alleys, meeting rooms, or 
perhaps a movie theatre in 
the senior bar. And the ad­

ALL-N[W
ministration doesn't want a creating an exciting 
student center far out on Juniper Road. 
But in contrast to this is 
Fr. Hesburgh's view that 
Notre Dame probably needs 
a set ofdispersed social cen­
ters more than the one 
monstrous new student cen­
ter building most students 
visualize. Hesburgh voiced 
this opinion as recently as 
early December, when he 
told a crowd of students in 
the Howard Hall Chapel ­
in front of the rolling 
cameras of a CBS "60 
Minutes" film crew -not to look for any shiny new student centerper se too soon. And when Fr. Hesburgh talks, people listen. 
So here's the idea: design the senior bar to be a multi· use facility for all ages ofcollege students. This concept is nothing new; Dooley's Bar in East Lansing, Mich. has been raking in the bucks for years now on their phenomenonly successful two-level format. Upstairs, there is a large bar facility that would put any South Bend drinking hole to shame. There is food service, complete bar facilities, a game room, and plenty of 
tables and places to sit. (see, they learned the secret of 
running a respectable and safe establishment years ago: 
give the people a place to sit and they won't be so 
rowdy and destructive. Few places in South Bend have 
ever caught on to this fact). 
The "upstairs bar" is strictly policed. The people at the door are very tough about bouncing underaged people -and there is a limit on the number of people admitted to the bar at ay one time to avoid the familiar South Bend crush. The result is a very mature and engaging atmosphere -much like the ideal ofa senior bar. If this approach were to be duplicated here, seniors and alumni would be provided with a clean, modern, and relatively large facility to replace the current build­ing. 
The key to the success ofDooley's-and potentially 
one part ofa solution to the Notre Dame social problem 
-is the "downstairs" component of the structure. The nightclub atmosphere on campus that would invite dating and friendly interac­tion -in a non-alcoholic at· mosphere. 
Key rules would prevent the deterioration of this un­derclass priveledge into the legal and ethical quagmire of underage alcohol abuse. First, as mentioned before, no alcohol would be served downstairs, although food and non-alcoholic beverages would be available. Second, no alcoh­hol could be brought 

downstairs by patrons coming down from upstairs. And third, no alcohol could be taken from the upstairs bar outside the building at any time. These rules would be strictly enforced. 
But since there still would be no alcohol served in the downstairs "nightclub," what would make it profitable where the LaaFortune Club has failed so miserably? First, the LaFortune Ballroom is acoustically and aes­thetically unsuited for any live or recorded music. Second, hardly any permanent fixtures can be posi­tioned in the ballroom because ofthe daily need to rear­
range the room for Placement Bureau interviews. And finally, the fact that the "downstairs nightclub" at the proposed senior bar is located on the fringe of the campus, and carries with it the more "swinging" reputa­tion of being a first-class nightspot frequented by stu­dents of all classes, would give it the "feel" of being more like a traditional off-campus nightclub. Yet, its proximity to campus would be a safety factor for stu­dents walking back and forth. 
As an added benefit, the downstairs facilities could be utilized to accomodate overflow football weekend crowds or to hold hall formals. 
So, there it is. If the University really wants a new senior bar (I haven't heard any seniors screaming to have the present one torn down), and if it doesn'.t want to build a big central student center, then maybe this compromise should be investigated. 
John 
McGrath 
Editor in Chiel 
Inside 
downstairs portion of the building would offer a large 
dance floor, stage facilities to encourage frequent 
bookings of local and regional bands, food service, and 
again, a good amount of seating for patrons. The big 
difference here, and the key to the success of the con­
cept, is the fact that no alcohol would be served 
downstairs. 

This would enable the facility to have an incredible amount offlexibility. Not only could patrons of the ex­clusively senior and over-21 "upstairs" bar enjoy dan­cing and live entertainment any time they wish by simply going downstairs, but significantly, underclas­smen could greatly enhance their social possibilities by sharing this facility with their older peers. In effect, Notre Dame would finally be able to acheive the goal 
that it has been striving for 
unsuccessfully with the 
moribound LaFortune Club: 
Five divers drowned in a pressurized chamber aboard the submarine U.S.S. Grayback early Sunday when the cham­ber's oxygen system failed. The accident occurred on the Subic Bay naval base, 50 miles northeast of Manila. A Navy spokesman said the men had no warning that the tank was not filling with oxygen as it should have as water was draining out. One of the five, Ensign Wil­

liam Robinson, 24, formerly of South Bend, received his NROTC commission in May, I980 through the University of Notre Dame. An Indiana University at South Bend graduate, Robinson worked as a volunteer with the Red Cross, the Clay Township Fire Department, and the Bendix Woods Ski Patrol. His body is en route to Orvis­Plumber funeral home jn South Bend. -The Observer 
Snow ending today with mostly cloudy skies, high in the 30's. Tomorrow, mostly cloudy with snow or rain developing. High of30. 



__The_Obs.er.y:er__ 
Design Editor ....................... Monica Gugk 
Design Assistants ........... Suzanne LaCroix 
Mike McCaughey Typesetters ........................ Toni Rutherford News Editor ..................... Cathy Domanico Copy Editors........................Joe Mucumeci 
Tim Neely Sports Copy Editor.............. Chris Needks Typist ..................................... .Jeanine Hynes ND Day Editor.............. Randy Goskowicz SMC Day Editor ...., ...........Juk Tremarchi Ad Design .................John & Bob & Corby Photographer...... .. ............ Tonia Hap Guest Appearances... Kandi for everyone 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS 
published Monday through Fnday and 
on home football Saturdays. except 
dunng exam and vacation penods The 
Observer IS published by the students 
of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary"s Col· 
lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased 
lor $25 per year ($15 per semester) by 
wnt1ng The Observer. P 0 Box Q. 
Notre· Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The 
Associated Press All reproduction 
nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre 
Dame. lnd1ana 46556 


ATTENTION 
ENGINEERING 
STUDENTS 
The Air Force has just announced a new program 
for engineering students that pays S900 per mo., 
for up to 12 mos., while you are attending school. To qualify, you must beaU.S. Citizen, meet all 
mental, moral and physical requirements of an officer training school candidate. You must be 
maj<>ring in an accredited civil, aeronautical, aerospace, architectural, astronautical, electrical, industrial or nuclear engineering program. For more information 
Call Sgt. Marty Lazar, collect. South Bend 219-233-4747 Valparaiso 219-464-4151 
OR VISIT SGT. LAZAR AT THE NOTRE DAME PLACEMENT OFFICE ON JAN. 21st. 
I 

~l~'h_e_O__b_se_r_v~e_r________·~~----~~~~~---------------------------------------=---------__T_h_u_~_sd_~~Y-·~Ja~n_u_a_ry~2-1~,-19_8__2__~p~a~g:e_:3 
Career center 






SMC schedules workshops 


By TONI RUTHERFORD 
'>ell'S .\lajf 
Srn-~~ managt:tlll'nt. dit:ting, prqudt<.T, and wonwn and SUl"Ct:s~ .trl' ~onw ••f the Ji~l·u~sion topic~ on tht· .,prin).t 'l'llll·stl·r agt·nda at tht· "amt \1arv's <:ounsding and <.an·cr lkvdopmc:nt Cc:ntc:r ( C&CD<: ). 
t .t·ntt·r dirc:ctor~ .\tarv Elizabeth (.\tid) lki>am\. Mary Thl.'is, and Kathv l';trrar havl' scheduled thl' workshop ~l'rks tilr Wednt:sdays at C>: :~ll p.m. 111 Staplt'ton l.oungt: stan· ing .January 2.., and continuing through l'c:hruary 2·1. 
Otht:r upcoming pro~o:rams in· 
dudt· the .:ontinuanct: of the: 
Prohkm~ in Eating group, 
spon~orl'd in conJUnction with the 
l'svdJOlogical St"rvict·s Centt:r at 
:'1/otrc: Dame. Thl' t1rst mn·ting of thi' senH.·ster will take place Thur,da\·..Jan. 2S at "":00 p.m. on thl· third tloor of :'1/otre Damt·'s Studl'nt llealth Cnl!l'f. Interested student~ 
should  contact  Dr.  Rvhit·ki  or  Dr.  
Strnhe  at  :-.J.D..  or  \tary  Thl.'is  at  
S,\1<:.  

.'. se,sion bv \1 ary Theis on as· st·nivenl·s~ and dating will ht·gin Thursdav, Feb. -1 from <>:50 to H:OO 
p.m. and run for tintr conse<.·utivt• st·ssions. These wtll he hdd in the Student Aftairs Conti:rl'nn· Room and will indude the art of making nmversation and getting ac· quaintetl. traditional roles and ex· pcctations, and being in the right place at the right time. Also, the 
Women's Topic Group, a lunchtime group meeting Tuesdays from I .2: I 5 
to I :50 in the Campus Ministry 
Apanment. will begin Feb. 2. Topic 
suggl'stion~ indude sdf con<.·ep!. 
hotly image. and suggestions from 
pankipants. Students intcrcstt·d in 
l.'itht·r program should Si!-(n up at the 
C&CCD. 
A workshop series hl'ing planned 
by Kathy Farrar tilr sometime· in 
Fl'bruary will fc:ature women in the 
workplact·. Students arc asked to 
contact the .:enter tiJr further 
details. 
"Tht· Counseling and Cart'l'r lkvdopmc:nt Center has two futK· tions," says lkPauw. "We otfl-r ~tu· dc:nts both pnsonal counseling and career hdp." For more information about tht· center or any of its programs, call .28+4835 or 284· +131. 

Soviets claim arms equality 
MOSCOW (AP)-A glossy book· 

let on the so-called "U.S. war 
machine" appears to bt· a Moscow's 
latest bid to turn West Europeans 
against America over the issue of 
nuclear armamc:nts. 
The 78-pagt· publication, titled "Whence The Threat To Peace," is the Kremlin's latest answer to the Pentagon·~ own 99·page pamphlet, 
"Soviet Military Power," which last September depicted the Soviets as having achieved military super­iority. 
The Soviet booklet rclcasl'd this 
month accuses the Reagan ad· 
minstration of launching an ex· 
tcnsivc arms buildup to attain U.S. 
military superiority over the Soviet 
Union "In tht· next few years." 
Maps portray the Soviet Union vir­tually under siege from U.S. ground ha'>es. vessels and aircraft. Charts purport to show big tlows of wt·apons from American arsenals to overseas allks. 
Nuclear weapons of the United States, Britain and France "confront" the Soviets in Europe, the booklet says, while China's nuclear forces "threaten" from the East. 
The publication seeks to prove that "rough parity" exists bctwec:n NATO and thl' Warsaw Pact in man­power, aircraft, nuclear missiles and other armaments. 
New U.S. medium-range missiles arc not needed in Western Europe because it is already well protected by the American nuclear umbrella, argues the booklet, which is being distributed in several languages. 
The Soviet statements are not 
new, and the booklet offers no new 
evidence to buttress assertions ­
repeated daily in the state-run Soviet 
media -of U.S. warmongering. 
U.S. State Department spokesman Dean Fischer on Monday dismissed tht· pamphlet as a "slick repackaging job" of standard Soviet propaganda themes. 
His comments drew an angry rebuttal Tuesday from the official Tass news agency, which reported that the Western European media 

Reagan celebrates first yearin office 
WASHINGTON (AP)-President 
Reagan, cclchrating the "impressive 
start" he says his administration has 
made, told his appointees through­
out the government yesterday that 
"we have laid the foundations for 
economic recovery and national 
renewal." 
"The American people haven't 
hccn led astray by the peddlers of 
pessimism and despair," Reagan 
said, calling attention to a public 
opinion poll he said showt·d support 
for his economic program. 
In the first presidential pep talk directed at the government's top 2,.200 oftkials, Reagan said he had promised to reduce escalating government spending and regula· tion, cut intlation and interest rates, and "n:storc confidence in America at home and respect ti>r America ahroad." 
"Wt· have kept those promises," 
he said. In all, he added, "we have 
kt·pt I 04 major promises we made 
to the American people." 
lie did not list thl'm, in the 
prepared text of his speech for the 
Reagan Administration Executive 
Forum. 
Speaking in a govt·rnment 
auditorium ncar the White Housl', 
one year to the hour after he took his 
inaugural oath, the president said 
tht· rct·ord of his first year in office 
provided "an impressive list of 
achievements." 
He said a New York Times-CBS News poll showed that 60 percent of the people believe his economic program will help the nation. But the poll also said 5 I percent ofthosc questioned believed his policies had hurt the econony so far, a detail the president did not mention. 
The American people, Reagan said, "understand that the damage of decades of waste, mismanagement. inflation and economic decay will not vanish overnight. In fact, they've also notked that quite a few of the people shedding crocodile tears ovt·r our current economic plight and taking potshots at our recovery program arc the very people who 
led us into this swamp in the t1rst 
place." 
Uc urged his listeners not to lose 
sight of their task. "I know it isn't al· 
ways easy," he said. "As the old 
saying goes, when you're up to your 
armpits in alligators, it's sometimes 
hard to remember that you're here 
to drain the swamp." 

The task, he said, is "to drain the swamp of over-taxation, over· regulation. and runaway inflation that has dangerously c:roded ourfree way of life." 
"We have made an impressive start," the president said. "In this first year of our trusteeship we have built a competent, dedicated ex· ccutivc team. We have laid the foundations for economic recovery and national renewal." 
But, he said, "we still have a long 
way to go -a lot to do bdi>rc we 
can achieve all that we hope for the 
America of today and the America 
we will pass on to our children." 

had treated the booklet "most at· Soap opera at/diets in Zabm Hall tune in for their dai~y dose of tentivcly and seriously." "love on the air." (photo by Tonia Hap) 
Many Western European leaders, Tass said, have no desire "to turn their countries into launching pads 
'c,al!(~~-~~-1-~·~,)il·-------it.
for new American missiles" and the 
Neil Simon's
"broad popular masses" demand an end to the "U.S. nuclear ambitions." The Soviet pamphlet seems to be 
aimed at "peace movements" in the 


"CHAPTERTWO"
Netherlands, Belgium, West Ger­many and other NATO countries which held huge rallies last year against deployment of new U.S. 
Jan21&22 at7,9,and11:30PM 
missiles. Negotiators from the United 


at the Engineering Auditorium
States and the Soviet Union are now meeting in Geneva to discuss the fate of the missiles. A U.S. proposal calls for Moscow's withdrawal of its new SS-20 missiles in return for 

NATO scrapping plans to deploy ~-------------------------· 

1 juniors and sophomores 1 
572 new American missiles starting 
in late 1983. 
The booklet claims that the West would gain "an almost 50 percent advantage" over the Warsaw Pact in medium-range delivery systems if the U.S. missiles arc deployed. 
Soviet Defense Ministry authors also dismiss the U.S. "zero option" proposal in Geneva, writing that "obviously this wutld mean uni­lateral disarmament for the Soviet Union." 
The Pentagon book says the Soviets had targeted I 75 new SS-20 missiles with 525 warheads against 
I 

Western Europe as of July 19tH. 
I
That goes unchallenged in the Soviet 
I
pamphlet. 
SUITCASE  I  
PARTY!!  I  
at Giuseppe 's  1  
Friday Jan 29 Win a trip for 2  9PM  1I  


to Ft. Lauderdale ! ! I 
I 
; on sale in LaFortune LobbJI 
11:30 ·1:00PM and at the dining II halls 5·6 PM from Jan 18 to Jan 22 
I 
--------------------------~ 





SUMMER JOBS AVAILABLE 
HEAR ND ALUMNI BOARD DISCUSS: 
*STUDENT LIFE *CAMPUS ISSUES *SUMMER JOB PLACEMENT 
THURSDAY NIGHT 9:00 IN_: 
MORRISSEY  HOWARD  
WALSH  ZAHM  
BREEN-PHILLIPS  FLANNER  

SPONSORED BY ALUMNI ASSOC. & HPC 
.. 


Thursday, january 21, 1982 -page 4

The Observer 


continuedfrom page I 

53,000 a year to support SAVE, which has abom 2,000 members. "It took that much for the mailings," she said. 
Daughters Elizabeth, 9, and Deborah, 6, help out stuffing en­velopes and folding letters. 
"I don't think my six-year-old ever remembers not hearing the Vashchenko name," Mrs. Drake says. 
In 1977, Mrs. Drake began doing some volunteer work for the Alabama Council to Save Soviet jews. 
"That gave me an interest and basic knowledge of the persecution of Soviet jews and Christians," she says. 
Then Mrs. Drake, a Presbyterian, 
heard about the "Siberian Seven." 
"I heard the story on the news the very day that it happened, but I didn't know about the Alabama con­nection until two weeks later when this minister put a message in the paper asking for prayers and help (for the seven)," she said. 

That minister, the Rev. Cecil Wil­liamson of Selma, had sent an invita­tion for the seven to come to America, a procedural move re­quired by Soviet emigration authori­ties. 
"We started working that very day 
in july of 1978," said Mrs. Drake. 
"Right at first, I thought, I'll promise 
five years of my life to this. It was 
soon afterwards, about six months 
later, that I knew I would work the 
rest of my life for their freedom. 
"I became emotionally involved 
and it just grew and grew and grew," 
she said. "Then I got to know them 
personally. It's as though you've 
reached out and become their 
lifeline." 
After she gets the children off to school, "I go into my little office and answer letters, or write newsletters -the dull part of the work which takes hours and hours and hours. 
"I pick up my children and fix sup-






anew 
slantonmath. 
HThe Texas Instruments newTI-40 and Tl-55-11 calculators have angled displays for easy-to-see-answers:' 
The slanted display makes these calculators easier to use at arm's length-and that's just the beginning. The economical TI-40, with built-in functions like trig, stat, logs, roots, reciprocals and more, will help you through math and science courses­especially since it comes with the informative book, Understanding Calculator Math. 
The book explains how to use the TI-40 to work through, and understand, common problems. 
Ifyou're an advanced math or science major, you'll be 
more interested in the TI-55-II, which 
comes with the Calculator Decision-Making 
Sourcebook. The TI-55-II features 56-step programmability, multiple memories, scientific and statistical operations, conversion factors and much more-a total ofll2 functions. An extremely powerful cal­culator, at an excellent price. Both calculators have LCD displays, long battery life and fit right in your pocket. TI-40 and TI-55-II calcu­lators. 'I\vo new slants on math from Texas Instruments~~-c.,­Look for them wherever ur
' /

calculators are sold. r 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
INCORPORATED 

• • • Housewife 
per. After supper I don't do any more work," she said. 
Once or twice a week, Williamson and other members of SAVE gather at Mrs. Drake's mother's home to telephone the Vashchenkos and Chmykhalovs. Mrs. Drake does not speak Russian but one of the Vashchenko daughters speaks English. 
These calls have been especially 

important since Augustina 
Vashchenko, 52, and her daughter 
Lidiya, 31, began a hunger strike 
Christmas Day. 
Mrs. Vashchenko is drinking 

water and apple juice. Her daughter 
drinks water, unsweetened tea and 
the liquid of dried fruits soaked in 
water, the family said. 
It was the hunger strike that got 

Mrs. Drake to call Carter. 
Mrs. Drake said that, during a visit to Moscow, the families asked her to contact the former president. 
"I told them no. I didn't see build­ing their hopes about something that was impossible," she said. 
But when the two gave up all solid food, she said, "We had reached a point where something had to be done. 
"I thought if anything could en­

courage them to call off the hunger 
strike, it would be a phone call from 
him," she said. Carter agreed t to 
make the call if there was no 
publicity, but a friend leaked it to the 
news media. 
"Million of people know you and 

are praying for you," Miss Vas­
chenko quoted Carter as saying. Yet 
the hunger strike continued. 
Despite the long hours devoted to 

the Vashchenkos, Mrs. Drake says 
her family is holding up "remarkably 
well." 
"There have been a few late din­ners, and the house is not spotless," she said. "But my children haw learned some rc:al valuc:s through this. It's very important for them to know you have: to help pc:ople." 
. .. Faculty 

continuedfrom page 1 
Another topic discused was the procc:dure of hiring non-Catholic faculty members. In the interview process, applicants are asked their views on Notre Dame's Catholk character. O'Meara denied that Notre Dame discriminates against 
hiring non-Catholics, as evidenced by the large numbe,r ofnon-Catholic faculty. O'Meara said that the ques­tions of that nature are asked to ensure that the applicant is in­terested in Notre Dame as some­thing more than just a place where he can get a job. The University wants faculty that view Notre Dame more than that. "After all, Notre Dame is a Catholic university and we must decide what that means and what we want the University to be." 

Mass marks abortion decision 
To commemorate the Supreme: Court's 1973 decision legalizing abortion on demand in this countrv, Bishop ~c~anos of the South Bend­Fort Wayne diocese ·will celebrate Mass in Sacred Heart Church at 5: I') 
p.m. on Friday, january 22. All stu­dents, faculty, and friends arc urged to attend. 

---------------~----~-------~-~-~
----___ 

Thursday, january 21, 1982 page 5
The Observer Air Florida jet 
Diver retrieves recorders 


WASHINGTON (AP) -A Navy 
frogman, following an electronic 
listening dt·vicc, retrieved two flight 
recorders yt·sterday from the week­old wreckage of an Air Florida jet_ The "black boxes" will be analyzed for dues to the cause of the fatal crash. 
After days of frustration with the Potomac River's icc and sub-surface murkiness, Lt. John Sechrist, of Vas­hon Island, Wash.. found the critical recorders on his tirst dive. He t·arried a sonar receiver that homed in on the "ping" emitted by the recorders, whil:h apparently were: 
undamagt·d. 
Laboratory technicians wt·re cx­
pt·ctnl to take anywhere from a few 
hours to possibly several days to 
analyzt· the recorders, which 
monitor cot·kpit convcrations and 
tht· key instruments. But Robert 
Buckhorn, of the National 
Transportation Safety Board, said 
tht· rt·sults may not he rdeased to 
the publk any time soon. 
"I don't think at this point you're going to get anything," he said, ad­ding that authorities likely would 


Church leaders send letter to Polish chief 
WARSAW, Poland (AP) -The bishops of Poland's powerful Roman Catholic Church sent martial law chiefGen. WojciechJaruzclski a let­ter yesterday that observers said might urge actions to quickly end tht economic and political crisis. 
The bishops. meeting under Poland's Roman Catholic primate, Archbishop Jozcf Glemp. said the letter had been decided on at a meeting of the episcopate Tuesday that discussed the "pastoral tasks of tht· church in the curn·nt, very com­plicated situation in the country." 
The bishops gave no details of the letter, but observers said it could urgt· polky decisions aimed at following up a church-government agreement Monday to cooperate to "au:deratc the pace ofgetting out of the crisis." :OThc bishops also sent a "special pastoral message to believers,'' and decided that Feb. 2, Candlemas Day. will be a day of prayt:rs for "all those who arc help­ing our country" with llood relief and other aid, tht· official PAP nt:ws 
agency said. 
At tht· Vatican. tht· ollkc of the 
Polish bishops' conference con­
11rmcd the letter had bel'n sent to Jaruzcbki. and Pope John Paul II dt·darcd that his nativt· Poland "has tht· full right to be a country of sovereign people." 
Thl' Polish church h 1 as grown morl' and more outspoken since im-
CULTURAL ARTS 
COMMISSION 

presents: 
MIKHAIL 
BARYSHNIKO 
and The American Ballet Theatre 


Saturday Evening, February 6,1982 Bus leaves 6: 15 PM from Library Circle· Returns atter show Tickets-$26°0-Bus and Performance Available at Student Union Ticket Office 
conceal the results until they could he tied with other aspects of the in­vestigation. 
Buckhorn said the voice re­
corder's metal box was hanged up, 
but the apparatus appeared in 
working condition. 
Francis McAdams. a board mem­
ber, called the recorders "most criti­
cal" in trying to determine why the 
Boeing 737 clipped a busy com­
muter bridge Jan. I; and plunged 
bt·ncath the river's ice, killing 78 
people, including four motorists. 
Among the 79 pt·ople on the plane, 
only t<>Ur passengers and a steward­
ess survived. 
Rudolph Kapustin, the NTSB's 
chiefstaff investigator. said the flight 
data rt"Cordcr, which provides such 
information as air speed, altitude 
and time of liftoff, is "in excellent 
shape" and its five-inch deep rct·ord­
ing foil has "good traces on it." 
The military divers, meanwhile, resumed their quest for bodies still the the river, finding two more shor­ly after the recorders were recovered. Sixteen additional bodies were believed to be still in 
position of martial law Ike. 13 and Glemp has warned the government against continued internment, ar­rests and extraction of loyalty oaths from activists of the now-suspended independent union Solidarity. 
East Germany's ADN news agency 
reported that a Polish court in 
Biclsko-Biala sentenced four 
Solidarity officials to prison terms of 
two to thrl'e years for trying to or­
ganize an underground command 
structure for Solidarity in defiance of 
martial law. 
Poland's hardline army daily Zo/­
nierz Wo/nosci launched a new at­
tack on Solidarity, accusing it of 
mapping plans last year to usc 
"fugitives and common criminals" in 
a general uprising to "dispose of 
state representatives and party ac­tivists." 
The army daily, in a separate ar­ticle, also said Jaruzclski planned to ask indl'pl'ndt:nt unions to join with the administration in running fac­tories hut stressed Poland's Com­munist Party must have "the lead." 
Poland owes an cstimatt:d S26.'\­
billion to the West, and President 
Reagan warned at a Washington 
news conference Tuesday of un­
spt:dtied further sanctions against 
Warsaw and Moscow if the martial 
law situation deteriorates furtht:r. 
Reagan followed up Wednesday by dedaringJan. :,o ','Solidarity Day" 
the frigid water. Some officials 
expressed fears that the current may 
have swept several· away, perhaps 
never to be found. 
NTSB investigators have inter­
viewed more than I00 witnesses to 
the crash and were examining some 
of the wreckage, including the 
plane's left wing, tail assembly and 
shell of the cockpit, at a hanger at 
National Airport. Some major 
pieces, including both engines, were 
yet to be recovered although they 
have been located in the river. 
.\1uch of the investigation has cen­
tered on whether the Air Florida jet 
might have had too much icc on its 
wings when it took off during a 
steady snowfall after waiting at least 
4:, minutes l(>r clearance. 
The two electronic recorders were expected to shed light on all these observations, investigators said. 
For example, the voice recorder, which is turned on while the plane is still at the boarding gate, could show whether the crew walked back to the passenger compartment to check for icc on the wings or whether the pilot raised concern about power as he was taking off. 
• CII~EIH!ll * 
r 
-·------------------~ 
t Thursday, January 21, 1982-page 6





Editorials Who really runs the country? 
Federal judges have been doing It would be negligent, of course, Yet, in our passion for final sity legal scholar Alexander Bickt, their best recently to confirm a to underestimate the import of these· scores, we act as if ajudge's decision wrote: ··All too many federal judges Maxwell Glen widespread susp1c1on that "the decisions for both the players in­can't be challenged and possibly have been induced to view them­courts run the country." A flurry of volved and the times in which we overturned in other arenas. The judge selves as problem solvers, as charged 
and Cody Shearer
notable decisions by a handful of fel­live. In each case, a black-robed St. in Idaho, Marion Callister ( who with a duty to act when majoritarian lows has caught Americans by George has scotched the dragons of moonlights as a bishop in the anti­institutions do not." If the courts are surprise and, in some cases, left them feminism, firearms, and fundamen­ERA Mormon church ), seems to powerful, we have only ourselves to Here and Now in shock. talism. For the moment, America have not cared that the courts have, in blame. 
may be better off as a result of the the past, tacitly allowed Congress to Of course, some judges are legal servative critics in Congress haveOn Christmas Eve, a f,de1 al court latter two verdicts. set its own deadlines for ratification lightweights who lack training but pledged to limit the Court's jurisdic­judge in Boise, Idaho, singlehanded­
ofconstitutional amendments. 

possess political connections. tion further in 1982 with action only voided , as unconstitutional, Yet even the~e rulings may prove anti-busing and anti-abortion amend­
Congress' 1978 extension of the that it's unfair to accuse the judiciary By the same token, residents of But even Supreme Court justices have learned that they don't always 
ments to the Constitution, Equal Rights Amendment ratifica­of wielding too much power. Friendship Heights, a Washington 

tion deadline and upheld the have the last word. The High Couit's When rulings on emotional issues
suburb which recently banned the ··authority'' of states to rescind their To begin with, Americans tend to 4possession of bullets, probably 1954 desegregation and 1973 abor­are handed down Americans will ratification decisions. Unless the be more interested in who wins and tion rulings, for example, have been temporarily acquiesce as good
recognize that the Morton Grove 

who loses than in the merits of the undermined or ignored across the citizens. But they know there'll al­
Supreme Court speedily overturns ·ruling --and by extension its own 
the ruling, the amendment can be issues at hand. As a result, judges ap­ordinance--isn't safe from an ap­country. And the judiciary's con-ways be another round. given up for lost. 
pear to hold more power than they ac­
peal by the NRA. Sometimes judges 
tually do. 
are ignored entirely: On the same day 

Four days later, a senior District As average court-watchers, for of the Arkansas ruling, the Mississip­
Court judge in Chicago ruled that the suburban village of Morton Grove, 
example, we care less about the fine pi Senate overwhelmingly approved points of congressional authority a "creation science" provision for
IlL, had a right to ban the sale and possession of handguns. Gun control 
than whether the National Organiza­that state's public schools. fans lauded the decision as a victory 
tion for Women will overcome the for a civilized society. Phyllis Schlatlys of the world. We 
Judges seem all-powerful in part

also cheer when the underdog gun­
because they preside over the busiest 

And on Tuesday, Jan. 5, a federal control folks ring up a hit against the 
social and political battleground in

judge in Little Rock threw out a state well-financed National Rifle As­
America today. We've asked them to 

law requiring equal treatment of sociation; whether or not to bear arms 
resolve all kinds ofconflicts and per­

evolutionary theory and "creation seems a secondary consideration. 
sonal disagreements; it's reached the 

science" in the Arkansas public And though the rivals in Little Rock 
point where some college graduates 

schools. Despite considerable local seem as strong in their convictions as 
are suing their schools for failing to

support for the teachings of Genesis, ever, the case might have pleased 
educate them adequately. Not

separation of church and state was spectators best by ending in a draw. 
surprisingly, as the late Yale Univer­
reaffirmed. 


Reagan must assert position on Poland 

The accelerating impatience with hand we are entitled to be indignant; 
such as Helmut Schmidt, who but on the other hand, our indigna­celebated the imposition of martial tion perfectly suits the strategic law in Poland by visiting East Ger­designs of the Soviet Union. many and cooing with the folks on Mr. Reagan is ju.stifiably under the other side of the great wall, is fire for not acting more decisively in 
especially vexing because on the one the matter of Poland. Henry Kissin-

P.O. Box Q 
Projess or replies to letter on Kung 
r 
Dear Editor; Professor Janet academic freedom in this case by Smith's impassioned defense (Letter comparing Fr. Kung to advocates of to Editor Dec. II: £d.'s note) of genocide or believers in a flat world doctrinal purity and her invective would be profoundly offensive if not against the· 'scandal" of letting Hans merely silly. Even the Vatican has Kung appear on campus would have· been more charitable than that. warmed the heart of Cardinal Ric­Professor Smith must fear that the helieu. Yet beneath the sound and Catholic faith is an incredibly fragile fury lies a great deal of fuzzy think­thing, and our students rather feeble 
ing, much of it quite disturbing from of mind, if it and they must be the pen of one who professes to protected from the kinds of questions belong to a community of learning. Kung raises. Faith, like so many 
Basically, Professor Smith seems other sets of understandings which unable to distinguish between a uni­we profess about the world and our­versity and a seminary. Is the selves, is strongest when it is tested, purpose of a Catholic University "to scrutinized, challenged. One would teach Catholic doctrine"? My non­hope that we are all intelligent Catholic colleagues must feel even enough to make measured judge­more incapable of meeting that test ments about what Kung or anyone than I do. If a university is not a else tells us about these and other place where all questions, even about matters. Catholic doctrine, may be asked in an We are, after all, in the business of atmosphere of calm and honest dis­thinking. Or are we? course, then I, for one, am in the wrong business. 
KerryS. McNamara

Professor Smith's attempt-to refute 
Government and In!'/ Studies
the_ applic~~ility o_!_ the notion of ger correctly indicts our failure to 
To judge by past experience with close off financial credit for the 
Soviet negotiators, it is unlikely that Soviet Union precisely at a moment 
William F. Buckley
they will withdraw their missiles, when it has been proved that negotia­
never mind that doing so would be of tions with the Soviet Union don't ac­
unquestionable significance. More complish anything. We are at fault 
likely the Soviet negotiators will, in On the Right for indecisive leadership. But we 
the coming year, accelerate the cannot signify to Europe that we have 
propaganda aimed at dissipating the arrived at terminal impatience. Not quislings, causing the Soviet Union
European world. When the day without giving to the Soviets that physically to come in then a relative­
comes to go forward with the deploy­which they most desire, namely the ly aloof America might make the
ment of the NATO missiles, the dissolutin of the NATO alliance. Polish triumph more galvanizing.
Soviet Union counts on a Euope Ah, but they say, it is for all intents That we can see.
prostate with fear, indecision and and purposes already a shambles. flatulence. That Europe the Soviet But it hardly seems to be in That is only half true. The day to prospect. Control of the mail, of the
Union will rub in our face as as area watch for is the day in 1983 when the radio and television, the telephone
faintly weak, unwilling to resist what will be recognized as a Soviet jugger­
alliance is scheduled to begin the and assemblies, travel and even deployment of our theater nuclear street corner communications, is
naut. weapons. We are, for reasons that generally enough to mobilize any elude some of Lis, at present negotiat­Our task is to recognize that for all movement. If Poland is to be the ex­ing whether to go forward with a that there is demoralization in ception, and if President Reagan has commitment to deploy. Mr. Reagan Europe, particularly among the intel­confidence that this is so, then the said in November that this was a zero lectuals, the prospect of life under the movement is blessed. option negotiation. By that he meant dominion of the Soviet Union will ul­But if Mr. Reagan is wrong. then that either the Soviet Union would timately bring right reason to the his miscalculation will bring a grief, withdraw its SS-20 missiles --in councils of an area of the world and a resignation, ·that is appropriate which case we would hold back on where freedom and civilization have to the occasion. Poland has given us a our Pershing and Tomahawk missiles most conspicuously flourished. kind of corporate valor almost un­--or else we would proceed to Now Mr. Reagan's special heard of in this century. More: it gave deploy. problem these days is, without us hope that --to use Marxist ter­The question arises: If Mr. rodomontade, to exert geniune minology --the contradictions im­Reagan is resolute in his intentions, leadership. He has not done so in the plicit in communism would finally why is it necessary to negotiate in the matter of Poland, but it is possible overtake the system. causing the matter? The next queston that arises that he has his reasons, and that they gradual dissolution of this most is : Assuming that the Soviet Union are not widely disclosed. For· in­odious accretion of the 20th century. were to withdraw its theater missiles, stance, if he were convinced that the If Poland goes down, then the Soviet where would they then be located ? suppression of Solidarity would not Union's pressure will rise. And With a range of 4,500 miles, they be successful, then it would be NATO will face the final test of could retreat to an area east of Mos­preferable that its resonant failures 1983, but will do so without the cow and still serve their deadly should happen without significant strategic sense of confidence in purpose as instruments of intimida­American connivance. If the' people American leadership. The stakes are tion against Europe~n cities. of Poland actually prevailed over the that big. 
Editorial Board

==Ihe_Llbseaer== 
Editor·in·Cbief............. ............... John :vtcGrath Founded November 3, 1966 
Executive News Editor.... .. Kt'lli Flint !JPorts Editor.............................. Skip Desjardin Neu•s Editor........ .................... David Rickabaugh Photo Editor........................................john Macor
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the S.\1C Executit•e Editor.. ...\1ary Agnes Carq Editorials Editor.......................Anthony Walton
University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily !JMCNeu•s Editnr ....Cathy Domanico Features Editor .........................Gregory Swiercz
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report· ed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of Department Managersa majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views 
Business Manager .........................Rich Coppola Production Manager...................Michael Monk
of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and 
Controller............................................,Joe Mulflur Circulation Manager .............Tom MacLennan
the free expression of varying opinions on campus, thrOUjh letters, is encouraged. 
Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owen Systems Manager...........................Bruce Oakley
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Features 
Thursday,January 21, 1982-page 7 
Alumni open winter meetings 
Student sessions tonight feature job placement 
By MEAGAN BOYLE 
News Stuff 
T 
ht· Notn· D~me Alumni As· sonauon wtnter hoan.J mtTting will he held this weekend, featuring the traditional hall visita· tion by hoard members, at which timt· an expanded summer job program li1r students will be outlined. Tim Truesdell. assistant director of the Alumni Association said that the hall visits "would st:rvc as a vehicle to briefstudents on the programs available and also get input on services students would like to see provided by their Alumni Associaton." 

Results oflast year's summer job placement program will be reported this weekend at the Alumni Soard meeting. "Though the program was piece· meal in past years," explained Truesdell, "all clubs have been contacted to participate in this summer's 
programs." 
With the cost ofeducation increasing and the decreasing number ofgovernment grants available, the Alumni Associaton has increased its emphasis on financial aid for students. "A sum· mer job has now become essential to financing a college education." Now students will not only be able to use the Placement Office to find summer employment, hut the Alumni Office as well. 
Applications will he available during the alumni hoard hall visit a· tions and in the Alumni Office, 20 I Administration Building. Truesdell encourages students ofall 
academic disciplines to apply for the program, stressing that "the diversity ofthe Notre Dame alumni should provide assistance in all sectors of the job market." 
The hall visitation program is of. fered by the Alumni Board in con· jun<:tion with the Student Alumni Relations Group, heatkd by senior Bob Mad)onald. The group, known a~ SARG, works with the Alumni Board to bring Notre Dame students and Notre Dame graduates t·loser. Together, SARG and the Alumni Board sponsor the spring senior-alumni picnic, the hall visitation program and anum· her of receptions for alumni and students throughout the academic 
year. 
Adinner will bt.· held Friday at the Morris Inn for SARG members and the Alumni Board along with tht· Hall Presidents Council, Stu· dent Body President and Viet.·· Presidt.·nt, Don Murday and Tara 
Kenney, and the Alumni Associa· tion otlkers. Rev. Richard McBrien will he guest speaker. 
Tlw residence hall visitations arc schedukt.l for 9 p.m. this eve· ning in five halls on campus. Times art· listt·d below. 
The Alumni Board representatives include Michael Read, '69, President of the Notre Dame Alumni Association; George 
D. Williams. '62, Honorary Presi· dent ofthe Notre Dame Alumni As· sociation; Robert Rohling, 'SO, alumni board member represent· ing Idaho, Montana, Wyoming, North Dakota, South Dakota, Nebraska, Utah, Colorado, Kansas; 
Hennan Kriegshauser, 'S"l, 
alumni board member represent· 
ing Iowa and Missouri;Joseph 
Gall Sr.. '44, alumni board mem· 
her representing Maine, New 
Hampshire, Rhode Island, Massa· 
chusetts, Vermont, Connecticut; 
Nordy Hoffmann, '3.3, alumni 
hoard member representing East· ern Pennsylvania, Maryland, the District ofColumbia, West Vir· ginia, Delaware; Romano L. Maz­zoli, 'S4, alumni board member 
representing Indiana and Ken· 
tucky; Charles Perrin, 'SO, alumni 
hoard member representing II· 
linois; D.Jerry Me Glynn, '60, 
alumni hoard member represent· 
ing Northern California, Nevada, 
Oregon, Washington; Clement 
O'Neill, 'S6, alumni board mem· 
her representing Arizona, New 
Mexico, Southern California; Paul 
Kruse 'Sl B.S., '52 M.S., '54 Ph.D., 
alumni board member represent· 
ing Wisconsin and Minnesota; 
JohnJ. Kean, ·sI, alumni board 
member representing Michigan; 
Michael Neumeister, '69, alumni 
board member representing New 
York, Southern Connecticut, New 
jersey;John Short, '74, represent· 
ative at-large; Thomas Maus, '57, 
alumni board member represent· 
ing North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida; Patricia Don­danville, '78, representative at· large, Walter NashertJr., '54, alumni board member represent· ing Texas and Oklahoma; Michael Joyce, '64, alumni board member representing Ohio and Western Pennsylvania; and Donald Bis­hop, '77, representative at-large. 
Howard 
Pangborn.
Fisher 
Badin 
Alumni Dillon Sorin 
Walsh Walsh Off-campus 
Keenan 
Breen· 

Stanford PhillipsFarley 
l..e'WlS 
St. Edward 
Cavanaugh 
Grace 
Flanner Pasquerilla E . Pasquerilla ..···· 
Off·ca.mpus 

Members ofthe Alumni board are (left to right from bottom): Charles Perrin, Michael Read, Donald Bisbop,jobnj. Kean, Pat~y Dondanville, Romano Mazzoli, Thomas Maus, Robert Robling, 
classical music provided by the elkhart string quartet 
for reservations call259-9925 
Thursday, January 21, 1982-page 8
Sports Brie/§ 
Hy The Obserr'er and The Associated Press 
Kentucky

Sports board 
The SMC basketballteam dropped a respectable 67­
Central Division

57 decision to upper-division Saint Joseph's College Tuesday night, 
Milwaukee 26 13 .667 on the Puma's home court in Rensselaer, Ind. The loss dropped the 
HOCKEY Atlanta t8 18 .500 6.5 
beats

Indiana 18 22 450 8.5
Belles to an even 5-S on the season. Last night's contest against 
Chicago 16 23 .410 10
Southwestern Michigan College was cancelled, but the team will be Detroit 16 24 400 10.5 In this year's NHLplayoff format, the top four teams 184
back in action Saturday night to face visiting Butler University in Cleveland 7 31 18.5 
in each division make the playoffs, regardless ofAngela Athletic Facility. Tip-off is scheduled for 6:00. -The Ob· overall league standing. 
Florida

Western Conference server Midwest Division PRINCE OF WALES CONFERENCE w L Pet. GB Adams Division San Antonio 24 13 .849 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. (AP)-Sopho· 
GA Pis.

w L T GF Denver 21 19 525 4.5 
more guard Jim Master scored 22 
Buffalo 27 11 9 191 140 63 Houston 18 21 462 7
EverySaturdaynight, the Student Union will spon­14 192 
points to lead ninth-ranked Ken­sor a ski trip to Swiss Valley. Advance tickets can be purchased at the Quebec 25 17 6 219 191 56 Utah 13 24 351 11 
Boston 26 6 163 58 Kansas C1ty 14 25 .359 11 
tucky to a 91-76 victory over win­
Montreal 22 11 12 204 134 56 28 14.5
ticket office for 52.SO, or for 53.00 on the shuttle bus. The bus will Dallas 10 263 
starved Florida last night in a
Hartford 11 24 10 151 200 32 Pacific Divisiondepart from the Main Circle at 5 p.m. every Saturday and return to Patrick Division .os Angeles 29 11 .725 
Southeastern Conference college 
Ph1ladelph1a 28 15 2 186 163 58 )eattle 26 12 684 1.5
campus at I I p.m. All are invited to come and join the fun. -The basketball game here.
N Y. Islanders 25 13 6 185 150 56 'hoenuc 23 14 622 4.5
Observer 

NY Rangers 21 19 6 167 178 48 iolden State 21 17 .553 6.5 
The Wildcats used almost perfect

Pittsburgh 20 19 7 178 181 47 ortland 21 17 553 6.5 Washington 12 27 168 194 31 an 01ego 12 27 308 16 
scoring from the foul line to overcome a young but determined
The ND-SMC Ski Team time trials were postponed CLARENCE CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Yesterday's Results Smythe Dvision oston 112. lnd1ana 103 
Florida team that lost a record I Othlast Sunday because the ski area was closed. Practice and trials· have 
w L T GF GA Pis 11ladelph1a 115, Portland 1 10 
traight game and fell to 4-I I for the

been rescheduled for today. M~embcrs should meet at the Main Edmonton 28 12 911267 197 65 ash1ngton 1 06. Seattle 95 
;cason.
Calgary 20 190 45

Circle at 4:30 p.m. Drivers aare needed. The trials will be held at 17 11 211 •lias 109, Milwaukee 104 Vancouver 15 23 10 164 176 40 JS Angeles 132. New Jersey 113 
A screaming hometown crowd ofSwiss Valley Ski Area in Michigan. Maps will be available at the Circle. Los Angeles 13 26 7 182 223 33 

m D1ego 1 08. Golden State 99 The trials arc mandatory for anyone who wishes to be on the roster Colorado 10 30 7 132 214 27 
norc than I I ,000, also a record in Norris Division he Stephen C. O'Connell Center,
this year. -The Observer 14 187 50
Mmnesota 18 14 158 St. LOUIS 22 21 4 182 192 48 
atched the Gators take an early 
21 182

W,nntpeg 17 10 209 44 S~NIM.M!NG#:i>· 

ead and go ahead by as many as 
Chicago 17 20 9 202 207 43 
~,. ~ '~ ' f " ;1• • , , _ •, ~ ~r': ; 

eight points halfway during the first
Toronto 15 20 12 199 209 42 
Detroit 14 25 8 159 195 36 
criod.

A Physical Fitnessprogram that will meet four 
ROCKNE MEMORIAL

times a week will have its first meeting tomorrow. Anyone that is But with I 0: 19 left in the half,
Hours until spring break

interested should be at the A.C.C auxiliary gym at 4 p.m. The Yeaterday'a Results Wildcat forward Derrick Hord went 
Pittsburgh 5. Boston 4 Building houra Hartford 4, Quebec 2 Saturdays 8 a.m to midnight 
Observer 

to the line and hit two shots to push 
NY. Rangers 3. N.Y. Islanders 2 Sundays 10 a.m. to 11 p.m. 
Kentucky ahead 23-22. 
Calgary 4. Toronto 4 Weekdays 7:30a.m. to m1dn1ght Detroit 5, Ch1cago 4 
Florida recouped bri t efly and went 

Wmn~peg 3, Wash1ngton 0 Swimming pool hours 
up by 30·25, but then Kentucky,
The ND Judo Club will hold its first practice of the Edmonton 8. St. LoUis 6 M1nnesota 3. Colorado 1 Weekends 1 p.m. to 6 p.m 
spurred by the sure hand of the 6­season on Sunday, january 24, at 2 p.m. at the Rock. All new members 
7 p.m. to m1dn1ght 

foot, 4-inch Master and steady foul
are invited to attend. For further information, call John Engeman at Weekdays 7:30a.m. to 8 a.m. 8437.-The Observer 12:05 p.m. to 1:15 p.m. 
shooting, edged ahead and took a 3 p.m. to 3:45p.m. 51-42 lead into the second half. 

8:15pm. to m1dn1ght 
Tom Heitz scored 15 points for 
Weight room hours

Lacrosse practice begins Monday afternoon at 5:30. 
the Wildcats and Melvin Turpin, fill· Attendance is mandatory for all team members. For details, call Rich Weekends 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. ing in at center for the injured Sam 
Weekdays 3 p.m to 1 1 p.m. 
O'Leary at 239-5108. -The Observer Bowie, added 14 for Kentucky, 
NBA 
The use of the Rockne Memonal1s hm1ted to Notre 

which raised its record to 11-3 over­
Eastern Conference 

Dame students, faculty and adm1n1strat1Ve 
all and 4-2 in the SEC.
Atlantic Division 

managenal staff upon presentation of a current I.D.
Signups have been extended until Friday for w L Pet. GB card. 
Boston 9 
Forward Ronnie Williams led the

both men's and women's interhall volleyball tournaments. Team 30 .769 
Philadelphia 27 12 .692 3 

FAMILY USE Gators with 25 and Vernon Delancymembers must be from the same hall to participate in the elimina­Wash1ngton 19 19 .500 10.5 
For the above. members of the 1mmed1ate fam1ly

New York 18 21 .462 12 had 16 for Florida, which fell to 1-6
tion. -The Observer may use the Rockne fac11ities from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m.
New Jersey 16 22 .421 13.5 in the SEC.
Sundays. 
The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However. classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid.
Classifieds 
either in person or through the mail. 
1 

I 
FOR RENT: IndiVIdual or group. Com· AIDE NEEDED to Champa1gn. Ill.. thiS Dear Oom1n1que.
NEED TWO STUDENT OR GA From Mark·s su1temate 1n 201: Where IS
fort able house close to campus. bus $500 weekend (Fn.. Jan. 22 • Sun. 24)S Call Continued success at Notre Dame An­
NOTICES 

MARYLAND TICKETS. CALL AFTER 5. 
MY secret SIS? I search the wasted tundra 

per semester plus share of ut1ht1es. Call Mlkeat4540 glers. fam1ly and Ulia wont be the same 
BRIAN 288-5442 (or IS that frozen waste?}. but I hear not a

288·3942 aher 5:30pm Without you peep or a cook1e from her I MUST HAVE
NEED RIDERS TO DETROIT FRIDAY. Drummer to start rock group Must dnnk. A bJentot. 
WANTED. MARQUETTE STUDENT OR
JAN 22 RETURNING SATURDAY. JAN ROOMMATE WANTED· completely fur­too Call M1ke O'Connor at 1851 aher A1chard AELEASE!!!(and food). AAAAA· 
GAS. CALL MIKE OR VINCE. 272·7645 AGGHHH!!
23 CALL MARY 4342 niShed apt . super locale. NAME YOUR m1dn1te weekdays. RENT-Dave 283·1 169 Grosses Btses a Ntquette .. JoeM 
Drummer to start rocK group. Must YumYum.
NEE;DED One roommate House near dnnk.too Call M1ke OConnor at 1851 af· Volunteer RecrUitment Meetmg for SAVE campus. bars. Cat1233·2969 ter m1dn1te weekdays. (Student Advocates and Volunteers for Thanks for the bite of the B1g AppleLOST/FOUND PERSONALS the Elderly) IS scheduled for Thursday Eve couldnt have done 11 better. OXOX. WALKING DISTANCE FROM Anyone di'1v1ng to NO from W1s lor Mar· 
(1/21/82) 1n Room 200-Haggar Hall at Nank• Poo 
4.30 p m. SAVE offers four programs forCAMPUS(5 BLOCKS) CRAWLING DIST quette wknd? If so. fnend w1ll share 
To John w1th no socks. engraved on 11. If found please call Amalia APTS ON BUS ATE BAA. PRIVACY. more 1nformat1on. contact VSO 239-7308. Now barefoot and bronzed. thts proves 
_... LOST a Silver heart locket w1th my name FROM CORBY S-NOTRE DAME dnv1ng & expenses. Call M1ke 7987 the elderly to Interested volunteers For 
God ts not without s1n. He created Macor at3818 He s the man(?) for UMOC! the Kelly Corollary. we·ll be 1eatous 1f
INEXPENSIVE CALL KIRK 283-8930 Dom1noes start falling! 
FOR SALE 
j 

ATTN POLICE FANSI Please respond to my MESSAGE IN A BOTTLE and f1nd me MMC 
LOST. One pa1r of black sk1,gloves They CONGRATULATIONS. KEVIN OMILIAK Love. 
last warmed my now frozen hands last ON YOUR ENGAGEMENT TO YOUR Fnday at the Beach Party at the SMC a the Cleveland on HTH ITS ABOUT TIME1 KLP
nde to concert 
FOR SALE -Two studded snow t~res 
Club House Anyone wtth 1nto please call WANTED January 29 -Will share usual. If I don't 
W1ll f1t most compact cars. $25 DO each 
8501 or 8512 get dnven to Cleveland. I'll be DRIVEN So Alright Aireadyll What's this
My hands would be very For more 1nfo call Andy at 8448 

thankful TO TEARS' Call4330 SMC today! garbage about some peon lightweight
The governor at New Jersey. when named Macor? So what's he done,
asked why the state IS pay1ng John Found. Blue and green scarf D1scovered CALL MIKE AT 1689 Macor s tUitiOn. huh? Got a record? I've seen the kid; COMPARATIVE GOVT 342 BOOKS PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLOTHING. 
HELPHELPHELPHELPHELP' I need a 
UNIFORM JERSEYS. TEAM JACKETS 
at Bendix Woods 1/14/82 Call John at t1cket (or more) for the Pollee concert 1n Listen. would you want the guy hangmg tall, not even overweight .. .in fact, I
AND MUCH MORE EVERY MAJOR 
1764 to 1den!lfy Ch1cago! W1ll be w1lling to dnve anyone to think he exercises! and shaveslll!f So
Need 4 GA·s (2 pr) for MARQUETTE Call around your state twelve months a year?
LEAGUE FOOT­
Ch1cago tor the concert tf they can get me look, let's talk about contenders, huh?
AI x1384 The people who hang around the shore
BALL.BASEBALL.HOCKEY AND SOC­
a tlcket(s)! W1llmg to spend. some of my t mean here you've got a perfect can·
LOST-one leh hand brown calfskin leat­CER TEAM AVAILABLE EXACTLY THE are compla1n1ng that he s g1v1ng the place her glove 1n/around Washington Hall at YOUR USED FICTION: THE AMBAS­THINGS THAT THE hard·earned cash (Smce Corby s burned a bad reputat1on didate: 1) He's an incumbent; he got
SAME PROS callbacks on the even~ng of the 18th . 1f SADORS. LOST IN THE FUN HOUSE. A WEAR WHEN THEY PLAY. GREAT what else 15 there to do anyway?) JOHN MACOA IS THE UMOC!!!! third last year with no experience, and
out ­

please contact Dav1d Barber at for a t1cket! Call 01ane at 7933 today! wasn't really tryingI 2) He's qualified.
found . MONTH OF SUNDAYS. and THE COLLECTORS ITEMS EVEN HAVE 
8109. Thanx! Just ask the thousands who voted tor
MOVIEGOER CALL Paula at 4648 BENGAL S SUPER BOWL JERSEYS 
LaGAOTTA RETURNS' SIX days remam him last year ..•former girlfriends wilt
anytime FOR MORE INFO CALL TIM 1609. Judy. If you'd g1ve your belt to a recrUit 
FOUND: White sk1 cap w1th red and yet· be avalfable for references. 3) He truly
who d1d you g1ve your toothbrush to ? 
about needy

low stnpes between Farley and North Keyboard player needed for rock band USED & OUT·PAINT BOOKS bought. TheWs cares the this money 01n1ng Hall. Tuesday. Cta1m at Adm. Bldg. now tormmg. Expenence preferred Call searched BOOKS. LOGAN CENTER VOLUNTEERS Start goes to and doesn't shave a percent­
sold. ERASMUS 
Lost and Found. the semester nght. don t m1ss the first age off the top. 4) He never got hts Win·
Dan at 8694 or Ralph at 6871 Tues·Sunday. 12·6 1027 E Wayne (One JOHN MACORS PERSONALITY IS
Saturday Rec thiS Saturday from 9 00· ner's T-shirl last year, and wants one
block south of Eddy·Jefferson Intersec­EVEN UGLIER THAN HE IS!!! GO 
ANYONE KNOWING THE 11 ·30 am For those of you who can't wa1t bad.
Drummer w1th expenence needed tor tion) UMOCII!-there w1ll be a dance Fnday from 7.30­
WHEREABOUTS OF CASSETE TAPES rock band now form1ng. MUST BE WHICH ARE MISSiNG FROM SMC 
1O.OOpm New and old volunteers
SERIOUS ABOUT ITI Call Dan at 8684 or 
MUSICIANS Looking for a drum­
welcome
BEACH PARTY. PLEASE RETURN TO 

Ralph at 6871 TICKETS mer.vocallst and keyboard player to help
LEMANS DESK. NIGHTSOUNDS 105 FM 10 30 PM
form a rock band for 2nd semester. In­Suzanne What's th1S about squeeztngNeed 2 GA·s for North Carolina State 
terested? Call DeMar 341 0 or Ke1th 3507 LOST: SILVER AMETRON WATCH CALL 8738 DESPERATELY NEED 2 MU GAs. 
your fluffy ta1i? Ry 

LOST SOMEWHERE NEAR MEN'S PLEASE HELP!! CALL SUSAN 6354 
SO YOU WANT A CAMPAIGN LOCKER ROOM AT THE ROCK 
JUNIORS and SOPHS: SUITCASE
WANTED.MANY MARQUETTE BAS· PROMISE? LAST YEAR WE RAISED
PARTY at G1useppe·s Fn. Jan 29 9 PM ND/SMC WOMEN -Fmd a stud at the
ANYONE HAVING ANY iNFORMATION KETBALL TIX AS SOON AS POSSIBLE Ne~d 2' ~t~dent or GA ;;~kets f~r NEARLY $250! THIS IS THE BIGriME'
Grace Study Lounge bash Fnday n1ghtOF THE WHEREABOUTS OF THIS CALL DENIS AT 8402 Maryland Call Bruce 288-5442 THIS YEAR THE JOE MUSUMECI FOR$5.00 t1x on sale Jan 18-22 from 1 1 :30-1 Fest1v1t1es start 1n the 1Oth and 11th floor PM 1n La Fortune Lobby and 5·6 PM theWATCH CAN CONTACT ME AT x3113. 
UMOC CAMPAIGN WANTS TO RAISE

dtnmg halls. Wtn a tnp For two to Ft study lounges at 8 30. and on lower floors 
ASKFOABOB 

I need two student Marquette B·ball liCk· NEED MARQUETTE TIX ·STUDENT OR 1000 DOLLARS!!!!!! THAT'S RIGHT,
later. BE THERE!!!!! ets. Call Kathy. 3848. GA. KATIE 8001 1000 BIG ONESI!! ALL FOR PEOPLE ......... ........ 
Lauderdale! 

Susan. fencLng star: your& my !dOl! Just when you thought tt was safe to WHO NEED IT MORE THAN WE DO. SO return to the basement of Lafortune.
1 OR 2 ROOMMATES,GRAD OR LAW I'VE CONTRIBUTED THE FIRST FIVE TO SHARE. HOUSE IN NICE AREA. NEED 1-4 MARYLAND GAS CALL JILL DOLLARS TO THE OUEST. CALL KEN AT 239'·5694 OR 289·3945. 4802 OR SANDY 4879 (SMC) EVERYBODY MATCHING OWN 
FOR RENT ROMAN HOLIDAY. 3 Guys and 25 Food­DARBY S PLACE RETURNS!!! It IS open 
magnets in one vehicle( not the 64!). from m1dn1ght unt1l three from Sunday to MY FRIDAY n1ghts. 
CONTRIBUTION GETS TO TAKE A 

WORKERS NEEDED FOR STUDENT Need 2 Marquette GA s.Call Art 3110. TWENTY years ago today. the female FREE SLAP AT MY AWARD· WINNING Furn. Efficiency $1 00 month also 1&2 UNION PUBLICITY. PAID POSITIONS. 
FEATURES! ,;! Bed Apts. Close to N.D.& town call25585 TABLE. TENT DISTRIBUTION AND AL­Th1s was for the 
race was blest w1th the BIRTH of BREN­TO MY SECRET SIS-
Desperately need 2 MARQUETTE GAS. message payed by
DAN SMITH Show your grad1tude w1th a Can t thank you enough for the cook1es TEAIII·HE POSTEA HANGERS. SIGN PLEASE HELPII CALL SUSAN 6354 Moose for UMOC Committee Joe
BIRTHDAY KISSI (You'll recogniZe him and browmes. Gtve me another call
Fum. Effic1ency $100 month also 1&2 UP AT S. U. OFFICE BY FRIDAY SOON! Musumeci, the one, the only real
as the tall. dark. beefcake from St. Ed's.) sometJme Mark m202Bed Apts. Close toN. D.& town call25585 
choice for UMOC ...MUSUMECI THE PEOP~E'S CHOICEIllI HAPPY BIRTHDAY. CUTIEI P.S Can you fall1n love w1th apicture? 


......­

Th~ Observ~r -Sports Thursday,January 21, 1982 page 9 
Sherrill accepts offer from A&M 
PITTSBURGH (AP)-Jackie Sher­
rill is starting over as athktic difl·c­
tor and ti10thall coal'11 at Texas 
A&~-with a big l·halknge and a rich 
contral't that douhks his income. 
St-rafino "Foge" Fazio is the new 
he;1d limthall coach at Pin, with a big 
grin and I H starters hack from the 
tl·am Shl·rrill n>ached to the No. 4 
ranking last season. 
Tom Wilson is out of work, finally 
fired as coach at Texas A& M aftn 
holding on whik the Aggks wooed 
his successor. 
And Dr. Frank Vandiver is still 
prl·sidt_.nt of Texas A&M, although 
he said hl· gaw thought to quitting 
his joh during thl· school's hiring­
tiring throes. 
That is how it stands in Pittsburgh 
and College Station, Texas. follow­
ing fast-paced devdopments Tues­
day in the hig money world of major 
college football. 
"People_. know how hard I've 
workl·d hl·re. Now, I don't get to 
rdax. I've got to start all over," Sher­
rill said with grim determination 
Tuesday at his farewell press con­
ference. 
Sherrill, .38, led Pitt to three con­secutive Il-l seasons over the past three years. Texas A&M was 7-S last season. and 21-19 over three years undt·r Wilson. 
But Sherrill is rolling up his slct·ves in College Station today he-
Missouri 
•

rematns unbeaten 
COUJ~BIA, .\lo. (AP) -Ricky 
hazier sank six l·rudal free throws 
in the lln;ll minute as unbeaten. 
Sl'l'!Jild-ranked \lbsouri survin·d an 
up~t·t hid hy arch-rival Kansas, tur­
ning hack the .Jayhawks -!I-.~s in a 
B•J.: Eight ha.,kt·thall game last night. 
The untkrdog .Jayhawks posted a 
20·1 ') haiti ime lead and quickly 
jumped ahead hy tlve poims afin in­
tt·rmission·as the Tigt·rs had trouble 
with Kansas' alternating zone and 
man·to·man tkfenses. 
The Tigers, I S-0, went into a stall 
with ~,IS. rt·maining afit·r a short 
Jumper hy Stevt· Stipanovich gave 
Missouri a ~+.B lead. 
Frazier. who lt-d the Tigers with 
IS points, hit two fret· throws with 
:\:28 lett tor a :\6-3:\ \-tissouri lead and Kansas nl'Vl"r got closer than thrt"l" points again. The vi<:tory strl·tched Missouri's homl· winning streak to 27 games. 
The 41 poims was the lowest any Missouri tt·am has scored sinct· a 41­:\(l vit:tory over Colorado in 195 I. 
Erratutn 
In yesterday's "Irish Items" l"olumn. Bill \larquard erroneously fl'portt·d that former Notre Dame 
quartnhack  Daryk  Lamonica  
playt·d  in  Supl·r  Bowl  II  for  the  
Kan!;a.~  City  ChiefS.  Actually,  

Lamonica did play in the second Supt·r Bowl, but for the: Oakland Raiders. 
Also, Mantuard failed to mention that Dkk Szymanski, a 1955 Notre Daml· graduatt·, played for the Bal­rimort· Colt~ in Super Bowl Ill. lroni· cally, the third Super Bowl wa~ Szvrnanski's llnal NFL gamt·. The for­m~·r lTnter .111d linebacker retired 
that Jay, and is now the a~sbtant general managn of tht· Colts. The Obsert•('l' n·grets these errors. 
-The Uhserl'er 
cause the Aggics offered him a con­
tract  that  will  make  him  a  Texas  
millionaire.  
Sherrill  said  only  that  his  base  

salary will be S9S,OOO per yt·ar, but the deal is reportedly worth at least double that per year when fringes are included, such as tdevison show revenues. 
Reportedly, Sherrill asked for more than the S2.2S-million, I l 0­ycar pact the Aggies unsuccessfully offered Michigan's Bo Schem­bechler. 
At Pitt, Sherrill made a base pay of S60,000 per year, plus another 540,000 in extras. He admitted the A&M money -and the security it will bring his family -was the key. 
Sherrill was sucn·eded im· mediately at Pitt by Fazio, 42, who had been the Panthers' defensive coordinator and assistant head 
coach. 
"I do not consider this a changing of the guard," said Fazio. "I just con­sider this a continuation of the program the administration and the alumni arc committed to." 
Pitt made no counter-offer after Sherrill visited A&M Monday. Sher­rill said he expected none. 


No hype. No empty promises. Just some straight talk about achievement...and about the opportunities available with the achievers who are reshaping the world of microelectronics. We developed the first semiconductor memory. Next came news of a computer on a chip. Our recent announcement of the iAPX 432 micro mainframe represents another quantum leap in the advancement of computer techn-ology. 
We achieved this success by cutting through red tape, ignoring the status quo, and giving talented people the space and support to try new ideas. We've prospered with this approach, and today it is our standard. 
Check out an Intel career. We'll talk straight about compensation and advancement based on results. We'll explain the advantages of choosing to work in Oregon, Arizona. Texas or California. But first, we have to ask you to... 
SIGN UP FOR CAMPUS INTERVIEWS 
February3 

We want to have some straight talk with graduates. If you are unable to meet with our recruiters, send us your resume or a letter that outlines your education, work experience and your career ambitions, in care of "INTEL COLLEGE RELATIONS," to the location of your choice: Oregon. 5200 N.E. Elam Young Parkway, Hillsboro, OR 97123; California, 3065 Bowers Avenue, Santa Clara. CA 95051; Arizona. 5000 W. Williams Field Road, Chandler, AZ 85224; Texas, P.O. Box 9968, 12675 Research Blvd .. Austin, TX 78766. We are an equal opportunity employer. 
----------------------------------. -·--· --·-.. --·· .. --·----­The Observer-Sports Thursday,January 21, 1982-page 10 
... Matvey 


continuedfrom page 12 
joined the squad either last season 
Qr this ont". Rarely did Matvey see 
any of them except during practice 
times and gamt:s. 
Two weeks in the .\1orrb Inn 
changed that. While otht:r Notrt" 
Dame students wert: enjoying their 
Christmas break, DiStanislao's club 
returned to campus and began 
prt:paring for a game against a very 
good Missouri club. Because all 
dorms were closed for the holiday 
period, the team bunked in the 
campus hotel. 
"I got to know a lot of people a lot 
better," says .''11atvey. "Just spending 
that much time with everybody 
helped." 
It perhaps would be titting if this 
story could have a kind of prodigal 
son ending. An "And they all lived 
happily ever after" conclusion that 
would create the illusion that every­
thing is just hunky-dory in paradise. 
Indeed, there is a chapter that would fit that mold. Against the Tigers, Matvey played what may have been her best game in the last two years. She scored I 1 points, hauled down eight rebounds, and played 20 minutes, including the last 13 minutes of the game, when the Irish came from five points down to record a seven-point win. 
Those numbers don't even begin 
to measure her effectiveness, 
though. 
"A couple times, Shari got her fin­
gers on the ball, knocked a pass 
away, little things that disrupted 
their offense," says Murphy, a 
graduate assistant. "She had a couple 
oftaps on missed shots, kept the ball 
alive until one of her teammates 
could come down with it. It's a 
cliche, but she did some things that 
don't show up in the boxscore, and 
it was because of those things that 
we won." 
DiStanislao echoed the senti­
ments of her former player. 
"I can honestly say that if it weren't for Shari, things might have ended up differently," says Mary D. 

NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION's 
A.NNlJAL 

SPRING BREAKIN DAYTONABEA~H 
MARCH 12 · 21, 1982 
o"4rrt~lflftU'IIlsi#Jf 
ECHO TRAI'El. INC. 
IIIC1SlS71f 


$209 
SIX PER ROOM 
(3 DOUBLE BEDS) 
FOUR PER ROOM (:J DOUBLE BEDS) 
·Guaranteed kitchenette or oceanfront available ar small additional charge. 

TRIP INaUDES 
· Round trip molOr coach lransponation via modern highway coache~ to Daytona Beach. Florida leaving Friday, March 12, arriving !he following day. The return trip depans the following Saturday arriving home Sunday. 
· Seven nights accommodations at the beautiful and exciting Plaza Hmel of Daytona Beach. Located at 600 Nonh Atlamic Ave. il is the most demanded hotel on the strip at that time. 
· A truly great schedule of activities including our famous pool deck panies and belly flop comes!. 
• Optional excursions available to Disney World and several other auracrions. · Numerous barand restaurant discoums arranged in Daytona Beacll for you. · The services of full lime travel representatives 10 
insure a trouble-free trip. · All taxes and gratuities. 
OUR TRIPSAREALWAYS THE BESTDEAL AND THE BEST TIME The Plaza Hotel, located right in the middleof!he Rrip. Isdefinitely!heplace robeduring spring break. Ask ati}One who has been lo Daytona. The hotel has a pool, big party deck. restaurant, tour bars, color1V. airconditioned rooms andplentyolactivities. Pictures arc available where you sip up. Our motor coaches are nothing bul thehigbc!ll qualiry highway coaches. We also gl~ you more enraswith our trip than anyone else:. Don'! blowit andJl(l on a Iowa qualiry lrip. 
LASTYE4R OYER 71PEOPLEHAD THETIME OFTHEIRUFEONTHIS TRIP. 
SIGN UP NOW AT THE 
TICKET OFFICE/ 
RECORD STORE 
10 AM 4 PM, 
MON. FRI. 
OR CAlL 283-3031 
"We needed her leadership -that was the first big game away from home for our freshmen, and by the time things got dowri to the nitty­gritty, there were a lot of people in that arena (waiting to watch the second game of the doubleheader between the two men's teams), and they were chetTing for Missouri. Our freshmen saw the way Shari was 
playing, and consequently, they 
were able to . . " 
She paused, in silent search for the 

right word. Pat Knapp found it. 
" ...Meet the challange." 
"That's right," says DiStanislao. 

"It's important for a person to be a 
presenet: on the court. both in per· 
formance and leadership. In the Mis· 
souri game, Shari wasour presence." 
"All the coaches were really happy with the way I played against Missouri," says Matvey. "They all came up to me and hugged me after the game. I was really intense for 
that one, and I guess I played pretty well, although I don't think I really did anything differently." 
A fairy-tale ending? Yes. 
The end? No. 
That's not the end, simply because 

this story really doesn't have an end 
yet. Minutes have been hard to come 
by for Matvey in the last two Irish 
games, both wins. But minutes don't 
make the player. AI McGuire makes 
an appropriate distinction -"It's 
quality minutes, when you play, and 
Big Ten teams play new version of Fatnily Feud 
Words also were exchanged last

ByJOE MOOSHIL 
week when Minnesota's Randy Breuer took exception to when Iowa Coach Lute Olson called Mic­hael Payne, Iowa's freshman, "the 
The squabbling, scrambling Big best center in the conference." Ten basketball race resumes tonight After Minnesota defeated Iowa, with thr::e of the four co-leaders hit­Breuer said "Lute Olson better stop 
ting the road amid budding feuds living in the past. All Lute does is and talk ofputting in shot clocks. talk, talk, talk with nothing to back it 
Iowa, Minnesota and Purdue -all up." tied with Ohio State for first place -Minnesota Coach Jim Dutcher will put their 3-1 records on the line then called Olson to apologize for 
on the road. Breuer's statement and similar 
Iowa is at Northwestern, Min­remarks made by Darryl Mitchell. nesota at Wisconsin and Purdue Dutcher talked to his players later plays at Ohio State, while Indiana and told them to be careful of what journeys to Illinois and Michigan they say because "everything they State visits Michigan. say is quotable." 
One feud involves Indiana Coach Meanwhile, the scoringaverage in Bobby Knight and Ohio State, while the Big Ten has been going down, the other is developing between down, down and some of the Minnesota and Iowa. coaches are blaming it on deliberate 
Knight accused Ohio State's Troy play with slowdown tactics. Taylor of a flagrant foul against Jim Following Illinois' 55-51 victory Thomas on Saturday and sent over Michigan State last Saturday, videotape to Columbus with an as­both coaches Lou Henson of Illinois sistant coac t h earlier in the week to and Jud Heathcote of Michigan State support his claim. said they would campaign for the 
Taylor, a freshman, countered use of shot clocks which would that Knight swore at him. Knight force a team to shoot within 25, 30 denies that charge but he did or 35 seconds after receiving posses­criticize the Ohio State coaching sion. staffon his television show Sunday, a ''I'm not criticizing anyone who move that did not sit too well with slows it up," said Henson. "It's per­Ohio State Athletic Director Hugh fectly legaL But it's not good for bas­Hindman. ketball." 
AP Sports Writer 
SffiC ORIENTATION '81 APPLICATIONS ARE NOW 
BEING ACCEPTED FOR: Chairman 
Assistant Chairman Social Chairman 'Big Sister /Little Sister Off-Campus 
Chairman Chairman i General Committee Transfer Chairman 
Workers 

Applications are available in the Student Activities Office ( 166 Lemans Hall) Deadlinefor applications--Tues. Feb 2, 1982 !Please sign up for an interview when you return yo'Ur application. 
what you do wht:n you're: in there:, 
nor how long." 
Murphy puts it another way. 
"People can measure a person's 
performance by how many points 
they score, or how many rebounds 
they get, or how many minutes they 

play, or how many records they 
hold. 1 think Shari is starting to 
realize that she's competing against individuals now, not against the record books." 
"The groundwork for all ufShari;s records was laid against teams that didn't have the caliber of talent of the teams we're playing now," says DiStanislao. "Shari is playing on a team now that is only looking tor her to score some of its points.\ Defense is a segment of the game that Shari wasn't accustomed to playing ­now, she's playing good defense for 
longer periods oftime. 
"Shari is just beginning to scratch 

the surface of her physical poten­
tial," she adds. "There's no doubt 
that she's a fixture on this team ­
she's our starting center. And she's 
just beginning to develop into a 
quality Division I player. She just 
needs to add a few more moves to 
her offensive reportoire, and go to 
the boards with a little more gusto, 
and continue to apply herself on 
defense. She's making tremendous progress." Progress. It's too bad there isn't a spot for that on a stat sheet. 

I I
I , 
I 
I I 
.I 
! 
' i 
I j 
........ 
I ~ 
I 
,I 
·I 
I! 
/ 
<4:'' 
·I 
L 

The ND Student Union presents 
MUSIC AND DANCING !! 
~~)!!!!!!!!!!~ Join the 0 J up in the( Chautauqua LaFortune Ballroom
.....:::: G1AH ·.~......
..... ...... at 8: 30 Saturday Night 
·~

..... ......
..... ...... 
Cost is only $1 per person for ;::: f\f TLIJ E3 singles or bring a date and get ,.._. ~·· ·~ in two-for-one
~· •s
~iiiiiiiiit\\~ BETHEREFORTHEFUN 
l .

Thursday,January 21, 1982-page 11 
!I 

-------------------------~-----------------------

TONIGHT: 

~rm~IICIDrn rn~...... 
Proudly Presents Its MUG NITE Debut !!! 
he purchase of a stylish :::;;:..KJ.'.f:i D:...U :.B.ll:.!.i mug will entitle you to outrageous weekly draft specials!!!! 
Friday: Snow jobs and Snowshoes I 
--------------------------------------------~--­
·.• 

---------------. 
Thursday, january 21, 1982-page 12
Snorts 

Face Crusaders 

Irish \VOnien travel to Valpo 
By MARK HANNUKSELA Notre Dame is led both in scoring she's really starting to Jive up to her Sports Writer and rebounding by freshman Mary advance billing." Beth Schueth. Schueth averages just 
In her last two outings, DoughertyRiding the crest of a five-game under 12 points a game, and 9.6 
has shot 1 0-of-14 from the floor. All 
winning streak, Notre Dame's rebounds per game. 
ofher shots have come from the 15­
women's basketball team will travel Also scoring in double figures for 18 foot range, straight away.
to Valparaiso, Ind., tonight for a 7 the Irish are freshmen Carrie Bates The Crusaders will enter the con­
o'clock date with the Crusaders in (II.7 ppg.) and Ruth Kaiser ( 11.2 
test with a 3-4 mark after downing
Valpo's Hilltop Gymnasium. ppg.). 
Manchester College by a point Tues­
The Irish have won the seven pre­Another freshman, Laura Doug­day. They have played two op­vious meetings between the two herty, is just under double figures at 
ponents who also have matched up
schools, including last year's 57-48 9.8. 
against the 9-3 Irish. Valpo dropped
contest at the ACC. Dougherty, a native of Hillsdale, a 91-36 contest to Butler UniversityThe closest Valpo has ever come N.J., already has tied an Irish record in the second game of the season.
to beating a Notre Dame squad was in her short stint under the Dome. In The Crusaders also defeated Saint
in the North District Division III Sunday's 76-60 win over SMU, Doug­Mary's, 66-58. 
tournament two seasons ago, when herty was perfect on six attempts the Irish prevailed 52-49. from the free throw line, tying a The Irish downed SMC, 92-29, in 
"They're going to keep coming at single game record held by sopho­their third game, before bowing to us," says Irish Coach Mary DiStanis­more teammate jenny Klauke (set Butler, 67-58. lao. "They'll be like St. Francis in the last season against Virginia) andjane IRISH ITEMS: The Irish return respect that they'll hustle the full 40 Politiski (set in january of 1979 home to play four games at the ACC minutes. We will have to play well against Saint Mary's). in a week's time, beginning Saturday and establish the tempo. If we do "Laura is fitting in very comfortab­afternoon against St. Ambrose and that, we should be o.k. If we don't, ly at both guards slots," says DiS­Sunday versus a talented Michigan then it'll be like pulling teeth." tanislao. "She's showing team .. Ball State and Marquette close 
Guard Carol Radivan is the improvement with every game, and out the week-long homestand. leading scorer for Coach Sandy Harms' club. She is averaging 14 points per outing. 
"She's a decent shooter," says DiS­

Matvey accepts her
tanislao. "She can drive, and she can pull up and shoot. We'll have to keep her from penetrating." 
Kathy Weisen is the only other 

new limited role
Crusader scoring in double figures. She averages 10 ppg. 

By MARK HANNUKSELA vey's total playing time added up to
Valpo's tallest player, 5-10 Carla 

Sports Writer 17 minutes.
Sebasty, is also its leading reboun­

For someone used to nothing but
der. Sebasty is pulling down a shade 

Pick a record, any record. highs, the first low looks worse than 
over five rebounds per game. 

Yeah, that's right, any one. rock bottom. It's to Matvey's credit Chances are, Shari Matvey holds that she didn't let that low point des­it. toy her. But she couldn't stop the She's tall, and she's a sharpshooter frustration. Friends who asked about 
in other words, she's the the reduced playing time did no­franchise. thing to help matters. Or was. Without a doubt, Christmas couldn't have come at a better time. 
Supportyour localhockey teant 
If there was ever a right time for a columm that deals 
It's not often that the owner Of 34 individual records finds herself "I was so glad just to get away for
with that annual issue of Notre Dame hockey support, forced to make adjustments in mid­six days," she says, the reliefstill evi­
this is it. Notre Dame's ace-in-the-hole (football) al­ready has been trumped, and its traditionally strong 
career. It goes without saying that in dent in her expression. "Basketball second hand is being dealt with mercilessly by the op­
the rare instances when such adjust­is so time consuming -I probably position. ments arc necessary, they are met spend 80 percent of my time on it. I That leaves few alternatives for that incessently wan­with a certain degree of resistance. was really frustrated at that point ­You can't teach an old dog ... sometimes I wouldn't play very
ton beast known as the student body. Unfortunately, In its last 16 games, Bowling Green has lost butonce. If there's a starting point in this much, and at times I was unsure of
many have written offsports as a whole and arc perfect­That includes its present streak of nine consecutive story, it was December 5, 1981 -myselfon the court.
ly willing to wait and see what develops next year. 
That is the sound, but awfully safe, thing to do. There wins -an excellent achievement for any hockey little more than a month and a half "It was good just to forget about it program. Obviously, something will have to bend when ago. UCLA's eighth-ranked women's for a while." 
is, after all, a very good chance that both the football and these two teams meet Friday night and Saturday after­basketball team paid its first-ever Somewhere in that six-day
basketball teams will be back to normal come next fall and winter. 
noon. visit to the ACC. The Bruins were ex­respite, Matvey readjusted her But for those who shun complacency and yearn for The funny thing is that Notre Dame has no intention pected to leave with a win -the prioities. an immediate fix ofthe thrill ofcollegiate athletics, all is ofbeing pliable in any way whatsoever. It is not a feeling margin ofvictory was up to them. "I decided that I'm just going to go Fresh out and play." she says. "I'm going to
not lost. In fact, things might just be a little better than of overconfidence, but of determination. The Irish off an 18-point outing one would think. 
realize that this series is very important, and that a against St. joseph's in the season­be intense and hustle and play good You sec, there is this bunch of guys who hang out in sweep is within their grasp. opener, Matvey, Notre Dame's defense and do everything the the North Dome of the ACC and partake in this pretty The question then, no longer concerns the team it­junior center, was ready for her first coaches want. Basketball is still fun, excellent game called ice hockey. And not only do they self. It instead deals with a second, and yet still impor­real test against stellar opposition. and I enjoy being part ofthis team." play this sport, but they have the tendency to play it tant issue. So were her parents, who drove to Being part of the team. That was 
well. Will it matter to anyone besides the team? 
Notre Dame from their another adjustment forced upon Matvey. DiStanislao explains it this
Admittedly, this has not always been the case. Last Will the team be left to face the Falcons before the Youngstown, Ohio, home to watch year, for instance, the Irish struggled from start to finish usual I 500-1900 diehards who make their appearance a her perform. Little did they suspect way. -especially at the ACC. Sadly, Lefty Smith's squad of a token visit more than anything else? Or is it possible to 
that when freshman Carrie Bates "Whenever something becomes year ago floundered to a 4-13-1 record on home icc, and muster a semblance of legitimate support for a team replaced Matvey in the Notre Dame extinct," DiStanislao says, "a kind of although the team did play better on the road, there was that genuinely needs it? lineup at the 16:20 mark of the fraternity develops. It's the 'old 
little to cheer about for Irish partisans. 
second half, their daughter would guard,' if you will. There's a certain
Hooefuhy, it is possible. It seems awfully possible for For the first half of this season, Notre Dame has seen 
not return. camaraderie among those people
the schools that the Irish visit on the road, whether it is good and bad times both home and away. Presently, the primarily a hockey school such as Northern Michigan Less than a week later, Notre who were part of that thing." Irish sport a 6-5-0 record at the ACC and a 6-5-2 record or a more diversified one like Michigan. Dame traveled to Indianapolis for a Matvey and senior captain Missy on foreign ice, including two wins at the "neutral" Joe game with Division II power Butler Conboy are the only holdovers from 
But for some reason, this school, that only two short
Louis Arena in Detroit over Michigan and Michigan University. Early in the second half, the pre-DiStanislao era. Of the 
years ago pledged its support for the hockey program
Tech. Irish head coach Mary DiStanislao remaining nine members of the 
on national TV, refuses to check out the product of its 
brought Matvey to the bench be­team, six are DiStanislao recruits. efforts. Rather, it leaves the team with virtually no homeGranted, this t record won't keep people awake at 
night with excitement, but it does show that some cause ofa couple ofdefensive lapses. The other three arc walk-ons who 
advantage -a fact that can only hurt a team's morale
serious progress has been made. And the best thing Mary D and her assistants, Patrick 
and, ultimately, its performance.
about this whole situation is that right now, just when Knapp and Mary Murphy, explained 
The result of an enthusiastic atmosphere helps this
they need to most, the team is playing as well as it has in the problem to Matvcy, and told her 
team immeasurably. As defenseman John Schmidt puts how to prevent such lapses in thea long time. 
it, "The noise is what realy gives us a lift -whether it's
By outscoring their opponents 36-22 in the last six future. Matvcy never returned to the 
home or on the road. We just get psyched when the lineup.
games, the Irish have shown that not only do they finally crowd gets into the game, and unfortunately, that only
deserve some home support, but that they have earned Two days later, Matvey played on­
seems to happen when we are playing away." ly six minutes against Northern Il­it. From Dave Laurion all the way up ice to Dave Poulin, 
Notre Dame is playing good, hard-skating hockey, and 
So, just to be crazy or at least different, why don't linois. All six came while Notre lately, they have done it against some of the better some people stop by the rink this weekend" It really Dame was building a 37-25 first-half teams in the country, 
isn't that painful of an experience to watch this Irish lead. Ifthe Irish can be considered hot, this weekend's op­team play hockey, and who knows, you might even have Following the completion of final 
ponent must be, at the very least, sweltering. Bowling a decent time as you ride out the effects ofa happy hour. exams a week later, Matvcy and her Green is undoubtedly the hottest hockey team in the Just keep an eye or an ear on the pep band and enjoy teammates took part in a tourna­
' 
nation -afact that will be readily verified by any ofthe yourself. ment hosted by the University of• Falcons' opponents in the last two months. The team would appreciate it. Pennsylvania. In two games, Mat-
see MA1VEY, page 10 
Inside: 
BigTen,p.lO Sherrill, p. 9 Standings, p. 8 

• ' 
r 





