.Microcomputers-page ·4
' ' 


TUESDAY, APRIL 27, 1982
till" intkpc:ndt·nt studc:nt nc:wspapc:r sc:r\'ing notre: damt· and saint mary's 

Eight Far ley residents arrested at Rocco's 
ByDANKOPP fined tor the misdemeanor. "l feel StaffReporter the publicity about this is being blown all out of proportion. It's not Eight Farley residents, mostly like another large-scale, late-night freshmen, were arrested early Friday bar raid. Rocco's is a family res­evening for underage drinking at taurant. The girls went there during Rocco's Restaurant, 537 N. St. Louis the dinner hour and ordered some 
Blvd. beer with their pizza," Sr. Lenz According to Sr. Jean Lenz, Farley stated. rector, the women ordered pizza 
Rocco Ameduri, owner of Roc­and beer at 6 p.m. Friday at the co's, said, "I tell the waitresses to Italian restaurant. They were not check I.D.s, but this girl sometimes 
carded but when the food and beer 
forgets. Employees will get you in were delivered two plainsclothes trouble." 
police officers, one male and one female, arrested them. They were Ameduri said he does not an­taken downtown and "processed" ticipate any trouble over the inci· for 4 to 5 hours. The South Bend dent. "We try to run a nice, clean Police Department would not place here. I have never broken the release the student's names. law before," Ameduri said. "I've 
Sr. Lenz said tile students will now been serving the students for 32 have to appear in court and will be years." 

Britishforces seize South Georgia Island 

FALKLAND ISLANDS (AP)-British government maintained mostly ofh· An Arxenline military t>ehicle t:mtl three helicop· the once-sleepy, town which the Argentines have marines seized a second harbor from cial silence on the reported defeat ters sit at the edge ofthe /Jay at Port Stanley in the renamed Puerto Argentine, into a virtualfortress. defiant Argentine holdouts yester­and capture of its small force at 
Falklwul Islands. A three-week airlift bas turned See story> below. ( AP Photo) day to complete the recapture of South Georgia, 1,100 miles east of frigid and desolate South Georgia Is­Argentina's southern tip. Military land, British officials reported. sources were quoted as saying some 
London's strategists next turned troops retreat~d into the icy back·

FJ Salvador 
their aim on the Falkland Island~. country of South Georgia and and one report said a preliminary "resistance continues." British landing on the well-defended Outwardly at least; negotiations


Rubio explains political situation 
archipelago might be only a day or appeared at a standstill. two away. Argentina's foreign minister, 

The following is an Ob-small and medium sized farms. How illusion is there. But British Prime Minister Mar· Nicanor Costa Mendez, said Sunday servc:r inten•iew with Victor Rubio, this is to he done will be determined Q. Why was the extreme right garet Thatcher, cheered by her sup­Britain's attack on South Georgia political represemative of the FDR by the people who have always lived (the PCN) able to gain power anti porters in the House of Commons, meant peace talks were out of the ( Rez>olutiomiTy Democratic Front) on the land. In other words, we will form the coalition? declared Britain still hopes to end question "for the time being." Ue of El Sa/vue/or. Rubio spoke to an have a mixed economy. We will A. The fact is that the elections the South Atlantic crisis by negotia· presented his nation's case yester­audience at Notre Dame Saturday have a non-alligned government as a had as its purpose to form this coali· tion. day before an Organization of ez•et1it1g, April 24. political hase. tion, to consolidate the power of the "As the British task force ap· American States meeting in Wash­
Q. Could you summarizefor me extreme right. The coalition was proaches closer to the Falklands, the ington, where the members un· 
Q. What is the HJR? What are its the f1JR/FMLN's statltl on the recet1t something that they had planned a urgent need is to speed up the animously called on Britain and political cmcl e<:onomic aims? electim1s? long time ago. It did not catch us by negotiations, not slow them down," Argentina to avoid using force in the 
A. The FDR is a n·r}· broad coali­A. First of all, we did not get she said. dispute.See Q & A, page 3
tion offorces that have come: togeth­caught by surprise. We knew what In Buenos Aires, the Argentine But, President Reagan said the U.S. er in El Salvador in an etfort to create would happen. The voting turnout mediation effort to defuse the ex­a new society. Many dilt'erent or­did not surprise: us; we expected plosive confrontation would con­ganizations, political parties, trade that many people would vote...out of tinue:.


Trudeau, SeniorFellow
coersion, out of fear. The fact that U.S. Secretary of State Alexander everyone has to have an identifica· M. Haigjr. has been working to make tion which is stamped on voting peace between the two sides since

greet classof1982
meant that those who didn't vote soon after Argentine forces seized would expose their lives, greatly, to the Falklands and its usually uni· CINDY COLDIRON Senior class.
the simple risk of heing stopped by nhabited South Georgia depen­StaffReporter Lupo said that he was not disap·
the government, being asked for dency April 2·3. Argentina has longpointed with having only three
identitkation, and it being dis· claimed the Falklands, which were 
Stressing the fact that the Senior seniors submit nominations because
covered that you did not vote. Gen. held by Britain for the past 149 class "did have some input in the "we did have some input and with
Garcia warned the people repeated· years.nomination of Prime Minister Pierre the time we had, placing a notice in
ly that those who did not vote were In the Britisr House ofCommons,Trudeau to receive an honorary de· the senior newsletter that the ad·
unions are included. It includes over going to be considered subversives. Michael foot, leader of the opposi· 
gree at commencement," Senior ministration was accepting nomina·
143 trade unions, for example. It in· And of course, the fact that 40,000 tion Labor Party, urged that the 
Class President Tom Lupo said that tions for commencement speakers,
eludes the major mass organizations people have been killc:d in the last United Nations he asked to helphe was happy with the decision. was the best way we could do it."
such as the People's Revolutionary two years indicates the problem settle the conflict. 
Trudeau's name was among three Referring to the positive and
Block (BRP). All political parties of with that. The people knew that A U.N. spokesman in New York, 
nominations submitted by students negative aspects of the speaker
the opposition are members of the elections do not mean anything. Francois Giuliani, said Secretary·of the senior class which also in· chosen, Lupo stated that Trudeau
FOR. Both the National and Catholic On the turnout itselt; it is interest· General Javier Perez de Cuellar's 
eluded a nomination for Alan Aida "will bring a certain amount of
Universities are also members. All ing that the Central Electoral Coun· office was drawing up contingencyand Fr. Daniel Berrigan. prestige to the students and to the
the guerilla organizations are part of cil announced prior to tile elections plans in case it is "called upon to 
Trudeau's name was placed in University by having someone like
the FDR; they constitute the FMLN. that they would only be printing play a role" in the crisis. 
nomination by Senior Joseph Hurd this speak to us." But we might also
All sectors of society are 800,000 ballots; after the elections In London, Lt. Col. Tim Donkin of who stated that he was obviously have chosen someone to speak who
represented in the FDR. It includes they said 1.4 million had actually the Royal Marines gave reporters 
very pleased with the selection of was more "relevant to the students,"
nearly everyone except the voted. The initial estimate, which this account of the capture ofSouth his candidate to speak at commence· said Lupo. 
oligarchy and the repressive military was released at 6:30p.m., March 29, Georgia, which began early Sunday ment. "It makes the students feel like Lupo felt that with the selection of
apparatus, almost 85/ ofour society. was that 376,000 had voted. Over· afternoon: 
they have some say in who we select Trudeau as commencement
What we expect to do is first ofall night they increased that to Helicopters from the 61-ship 
for commencement speaker," said speaker, he didn't "think it would be
the overthrow of the current 747,000. This is known as "night British armada in the South Atlantic Hurd. fitting for Trudeau to make a politi·
regime. The reason for that is to im­counting". It could be tampering flew over the Argentine submarine Lupo stated that he worried that cally oriented speech." "We expect
prove the society. So that it can with the computer itself Another Santa Fe in South Georgia's Gryt·
the nominations submiued him to probably refer to the relation·
benefit the people of the country, thing to remember, although the viken harbor, and Grytviken's Ar· 
"wouldn't be taken seri<ilsly by the ship between the U.S. and Canada
som~thing it has not done in a long media saw long lines, this is because gentine defenders opened fire. administration" but thlt Fr. Hes­but hopefully he will be speaking on
tim~. We are going to nationalize the El Salvador has the population of a British helicopter gunships then 
burgh did bring the no~mation up
land that now belongs to the city like Chicago, but only one-tenth 
See FELLOWS, page 3
as coming from someone in the See WAR, page 3 
oligarchy. But we will also stimulate the number of voting places. So the 






~----------------------------------~ 

ews Brie!§ 
By The Obsen,er and The AssociatedPress 
Saint Mary's Juniors Nancy Lorenzini and Helen Clarke were elected Le Mans Hall president and vice-president, respectively, in a runoff election yesterday at SMC. The Lorenzini ticket defeated juniors Liz Ladner and Sally Georgen in a 55 percent voter turnout, termed "pretty good for a runoff' by Monica Gugle, election commissioner. Sandy Eitel defeated Deirdre Grant, both juniors, for Augusta Hall social commissioner, with 4 7 percent ofthe hall's perspective residents voting. The women will take office im­
.mediately, according to Gugle. -The Observer 
Doctors in Texas have reported finding a virus in patients with multiple sclerosis, a discovery that could help explain the origin ofthe disease and possibly lead to a way to prevent it. The virus has also been found in patients with two other diseases of the nervous system, the researchers said. In an article in the current issue ofThe Lancet, the British medical journal, the researchers said they have spent two years verifying their results, because many pre­vious similar reports have not held up under scrutiny by other scien­tists. They said "extensive further work" would be required before 
the virus could be said to cause multiple sclerosis. A quarter of a million Americans have multiple sclerosis, and it strikes 10,000 new victims every year, according to the National Multiple Sclerosis Society. -AP 
A senior women's reception today in Lewis Hall Courtyard with dinner. afterwards at University Club will conclude the celebration of 10 years ofwomen at Notre Dame. Many students have participated in the special meals, mass and guest lecturers over the past week. -The Observer 
Israeli troops withdrew temporarily from a disputed Red Sea beach in the Egyptian Sinai yesterday but a missing rubber stamp prevented the new border checkpoint from opening to tourists. The confusion caused jitters in Eilat, which is counting on an Egyptian pledge to keep the border open and maintain the tourist flow. On the occupied West Bank of the jordan River, Israeli troops shot two Palestinians after one of them brandished a knife, the military command said. A 9-year-old bystander was the other person wounded. Israel's Sinai withdrawal has heightened tensions among Palestinians who fear Egypt and Israel will now grow closer to a!Vee­ment on autonomy for the 1.3 million Arabs on the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip -a plan they reject. -AP 
President Reagansaid today he would be "willing to look at additional revenue sources" in the search for a budget com­promise, but not if they mean retreating from the income tax cuts already scheduled for this year and next. Speaking to a friendly audience of business people at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce an­nual meeting in Washington, Reagan's offer appeared to be one step along the "extra mile" he promised last week in encouraging con­gressional negotiators to continue their marathon efforts to break the impasse over his budget proposal. It was not clear, however, what form of new taxes Reagan would find acceptable. -AP 
PiaZadorathinks it's "fantastic" to be compared to French actress Brigitte Bardot. "She is the sexiest woman the world has ever seen," the 26-year-old Hollywood discovery told reporters yester­day on her arrival in London to promote her debut movie, "Butterfly." Zadora was accompanied by her husband, diamond magnate Meshulam Riklis, 57. "Shooting to stardom after getting nowhere for so long is absolutely fantastic," the 5-foot tall actress bubbled. The tabloid Daily Mail featured a center-page spread on 
Zadora yesterday in which writer Ann Leslie called the actress 
"Bardot and Lolita and Baby Doll all rolled up into one tiny blonde 
package." -AP 

When Diana Dawne and Raymond Bronk walked down the aisle for their wedding in Desert Hot Springs, Calif., Hazel Nut and Griff Adore were right out front, as usual. Hazel and Griff were doing their regular jobs -they are guide dogs for their blind masters. But on Saturday, they also served as flower dog and rifl.g bearer for the wedding at St. Elizabeth's church. In fact, Hazel and Griff were given top billing in the wedding invitation, which had them requesting"the honor ofyour presence at the marriage oftheir people." Bronk and Dawne met over the telephone, and it wasn't a very auspicious start. Dawne wanted information for the Desert Braille Community Center, where she worked, so she called the Braille Institute Library in North Hollywood. Bronk, who works at the library, told her the computers were on the blink. Dawne said she'd heard that story before and "told him off." But they eventually met and became friends. -AP 
Mostlysunnytoday, breezy and cool. High in low to mid 50s. Clear and cool tonight. Low in mid 30s. Tomorrow mostly sun­ny and warmer. High in mid to upper 50s. -AP 
Tuesday, April27, 1982-page 2 



Pope Paul VI placs a red biretta on the head of Cardinal john F. Cody during consistory ceremonies in the Sistine Chapel ofthe Vatican injune of1967. Cardinal Cody, Roman Cath­olic Archbishop of Chicago, died Sunday. In background is Msgr. Salvatore Caoferri, mas· 
ter ofpontifical ceremonies. 

Rev. Timothy]. Lyne, rector ofHoly Name Cat· hedralCatholic Church, eulogizes the late Car· dina/ john Cody, (photo, left), during a morning mass Sunday in Chicago. Cardinal Cody, 74, died ofan apparent heartattack ear· ly sunday, a spokesman for Chicago's Northwestern Hosital said. 

Design Editor.......... ..Suzanne La Croix Design Assistants .................. Kay Holland 1)•pesetters... .. . ........ Stephen Brown Stephen Burg News Etlitor. ... ~lary Agnes Carey Copy Editors .. Valerie Evan> Kathy .\luray E'tlitoria/ Layout. .............. Paul ,\1cGinn Mike McCaughey ''I'm Gone, .\lomma!"" B & T Larout...... . ........ Alex Szilvas Sports Copy Etlitor. ............ Chris Needles 7)pist..... ..............................John McCarthy N/J Day Editor. ...... Greg Swiercz SMC Day Editor ................Julia Trimarchi Ad Design.. . ............ Corby Salek Photographer.... ..... Cheryl Ertel! Guest Appearances. . .......... 6-TO~I-9 Gorgeous Druce Oakley Rc:trospectivc:ly-Keenan Tumblers Ray "get what you can" lnglin Assorted Bigwigs Where's the last night party?  

The Observer !USPS 598 9201 IS published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer 15 publiShed by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys Col· lege Subscnpt1ons may be purcr,ased for $25 per year IS15 per semester! by wntmg The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduct1on nghts are reserved Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame lna1ana 46556  

I • ••• • • • • • • • .,.~ • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 
: n·IS Is what Scholastic : · and COTH have in common: · 
THE FIRST ANNUAL STUDENT FILffiFEST~. 
sponaoted by Scholastic magazine , : 
Sunday,.may 2nd 
7:30Pm ETS Theatte, CCE 

:comE AND SEE GREAT mOVIES . AND VIDEO SH_ORTS IW 
•..................................................................: 

Tuesday, April27, 1982-page 3

The Observer 
• • .Fellowrs 



·-...-""""' 
<®!" 

Yesterday's weather was warm and breezy -a perfect combina­tion for sailing. (Photo by CherylErtelt) 
...Q&A 

continuedfrom page 1 
surprise. The U.S. Government did, in fact, get caught by surprise. They didn't realize the superconfidence that d'Auhuisson & Co. would have in continuing to get U.S. aid, con­fidence that led them to reject the Christian Democrats. 
Q. How does the HJR/FMLN see the future now that the elections are over? 
A. What is going to happen, in terms of the tactics of the govern­ments of El Salvador and the U.S., is that they have abandoned the old strategy of reform with repression. They arc now going to the direct 
strategy of elections with war. The tcchnolol':ical level of repression is going to he advanced. Terrorization is going to continue, hut it will be more sophisticated. The govern­ment cannot stay in power with just additional weaponry, they have to also get troops and that is another tragedy for our society. 
Q. With the changingj()rm ofthe government, particularly the an­noucement ofd'Aubuisson as Presi­dent of the Constitiuent Assembly, u•ill the fVR's stand on negotia­tions he altered? 
A. Well, it hasn't yet. We still main­tain that negotiations are the most viable solution we can find. However, that is not to say we are always going to have that position. 
GETAM EDUCATION MONEY CAN'T BUY. PWS $15.200 FOR COWGE. 
Join the Army for two years. Because not only is the Army one place where you'11 mature in a hurry, it's a hrreat place to get a I( )t of money for college fast, too. 
You see, if you participate in the Army's college financial assistar ,ce pt,_)gram, the money you save for college is matched two-for-one hy the government. Then, ifyou qualify, the Army wdl add up to $8,000 on top of that. 
That's$! S.200 in just two years. For rnore information call your college nxr titer. 
ARMY. 
BE ALLYOU CAN BE. 
Sgt Hamilton 234-4187 
The consolidation of the extreme rights makes negotiations more remote. But, we have maintained our position on negotiations. 
Q. Does the FDR see any role for elections in the near future and what would be the conditionsfor a fair and tru~y democratic process? 
A. We do see the possibility for elections in a relatively short time; after we take power. What are the conditions? They would be to end the current repression by the right. You must allow conditions of liberty, for example the trade union movement and their process and that is something that is not happen­ing right now. 
' ' ' War 
continuedfrom page 1 
scored three direct hits on the sub­
marine. 
British warships next began bombarding the harbor, and under their covering fire helicopters ferried the British marines onto land, over the mine-tilled harbor. 
The Argentine commander at Grytviken surrendered after 45 minutes of "limited if not unen­thusiastic" warfare Donkin said. 

continuedfrom page 1 
subjects relevant to the students." 
Elections for Senior Fellow, a per­son honored by seniors for personal involvement or affect on student's academic and/or social life, will be tomorrow in La Fortune Student Center during lunch hours and in both dining halls during dinner hours, according to Senior Fellow Chairman Vince Laughlin. 
Robert Leader, a senior professor 
in the Deparment of Art, Art History 
and Design, is one of eleven 
Burke names cabinet 
ByDANKOPP 
StaffReporter 
The new Student Government 
Cabinet was announced and ap­
proved in last night's Student Senate 
meeting. 
Student Body President lloyd Burke's appointees includeJohn Eic­henlaub as treasurer, Julie Vor­mezeele as assistant treasurer and Tom Koegel as Ombudsman. In ad­dition Patrick Borchers, Maureen Burns and Annie Chapski were picked to be the new administra­tion's Executive Coordinators. 
Twenty-two other subordinate 
positions were also filled. "We 
looked at the applications and 
placed the best people in ap­
propriate positions," Burke said. 
In other business Student Body 
Vice President Bob Yonchak an­
nounced that Ticket Manager Steve 
Orsini agreed to give the students an 
additional 200 tickets for the Michi­
gan State ticket lottery. 
Also during the meeting, Burke urged the members of the Senate to prepare for the Board of Trustee's meeting May 6. Among the items he plans to discuss are former president Don Murday's fact-finding trip, the need for social space and off-campus housing. 
"That Board of Trustee's meeting is very important. It's our only real chance to talk to the people who 'run this place," Burke said. 
Next year's Senior Class President Mark Mai was also elected as the Senator-at-large member of the budget committee. In addition, Stu­dent Union Director Steve Strake in­troduced his new assistant director, Sophomore Dave McMahon. 
Movin'out? 
RENT A 
RYDER TRUCK 


If you·re 18 or over you can rent a Ryder truck to use locally or on a one-way (rent-It-here. leave-It-there) tnp to another c1ty 
FOR INFORMATION 

Compare costs before you make plans for mov1ng at the end of the semester W1th a truck you can take along your stereo. 10-speed. 
CALL 277-3550 

clothes. all your stuff. and still have plenty of room for one or two other people and their th1ngs, so you can share the costs. Compare that to a plane t1cket Or even a bus. 

Rent from the best-ma1nta1ned. most dependable fleet 1n '~~, the world Ryder The best truck money can rent _a... 
I  FocultyiD  
I  through June 30, 1982  
·-yJii1!!iiffEiiti:Tii­ 
2715N.BENDIXDRSouthBend  

,.
\J"J ~ ~.
~~~I ~:01.
i . .~ .---:"l__,· 
'j:y,fi~.:./
-1\.1 
nominees for the honor. Best known tor his course, "The Tradition ofArt" ("Art Trads" ), Leader was a U.S. Marine during World War II. He has been active in student affairs, espe­cially the campus ROTC program. 
Assistant Provost Sr. John Miriam Jones is one of the highest-ranking women at ND. Known for research in micorbiology, she also had strong interests in coeducation at ND as well as personal involvement in women's social and academic con­cerns. 
A Ph.D. in Sociology at Notre Dame, Asst. Dean Kathleen M. Weigert has been active in the Col­
lege  of  Arts  and  Letters  pre­ 
professional  program  and  the  
combined  arts  and  letters  and  

engineering program. Prof. Ronald Weber, from the American Studies department, has authored many ar­ticles and books in his discipline and is another nominee for Senior Fel­low. 
ND Football Coach Gerry Faust is also a Senior Fellow nominee. After 21 years ofcoaching at Moeller High School, Cincinnati, Ohio, Faust came to ND last fall. He is popular for his enthusiasm with students and em­phasis on spirituality in his personal life. 
Assistant Dean Robert J. Waddick of the College of Arts and Letters specializes in guidance for pre-law students. He also is known for his guidance ofother undergraduates as well. 
Director of ND's jazz bands and brass ensembles, Fr. George Wiskir­chen is an author of many books and articles on music appreciation. 
From the department of govern­ment, Prof. LeonJohn Roos is known for his personal approach to stu­dents as well as his interest regard­ing neighborhood concerns. 
Prof. Emil T. Hoffman, dean of the 
freshman  year  of  studies,  is  in­ 
terested in incoming students'  ac­ 
climatization and study habits.  He  

also conducts a Freshman Chemistry Class each year. 
Bro. John Lauelle has been active with the ND-SMC Right-to-Life club and has served as a personal adviser to many students. 
Edward Kaznuerzak, supervisor at the Rockne Memorial, is a familiar site to ND students who use the ath­letic center. 
The selected Senior Fellow will be honored later this year in a recep­tion at Alumni-Senior Bar. 


,----------~--~---.----­
110%0FF ~rz~r'cea~~Yate
Iwith this COUPON and your Student 
roR all O€WS R€poRt€RS tonJqhtiat 6:30 Jn th€ laj:oRtUn€ l1Ul€ th€atR€ 

Century Productions Presents... THE DAVE BRUBECKQUARTET in concert
Friday, April30 8:30pm Morris Civic Auditorium Tickets: $12,$10,$8, and $5. 
On Sale at the Century Center Box Office 284-9111 Present this ad for $1 offon a pair oftickets. 
,~ 
Business & Technology_Tu_esda_y,Ap_ru2_7,19_sz_Pa_ge4 
Engineering.Update 
Jerry J. Marley, assistant dean of the College of Engineering and associate professor of civil engineering, received the Outstanding Teacher Award during the College's ninth annual Honor Awards ceremony April 16. The outstanding teacher is selected by faculty and students, and is honored for "influence with students which extends far beyond the classroom." Marley received his bachelor's degree in civil enginee.-ingfrom Notre Dame in 1957, a master's in geology and his Ph.D. in physical chemistry, both from Iowa State University. He joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1969. ­
The Observer 

Economic Update 
The United Steelworkers union and eleven specialty steel companies have charged tht steel from West Ger­many is being dumped in the United States at prices below the cost of production. The coalition, which filed an antidumping petition with the Commerce Department, said Friday that imported stainless steel sheet and strip products are selling for 20 percent less than in West Germany. "Faced with a depressed home economy the West Germans have sought to maintain employment and maximize use of their capacity by dumping in the American market,"said Adolph J. Lena, chairman of the specialty steel industry's national advisory committee. The antidumping petition said imports ofWest German stainless sheet and strip rose to 15,489 tons in 1981, while the pre­vious year those imports totaled only 307 tons. -AP 
An estimated 9,500 hourly workers among 149,000 on indefinite layoffat the General Motors Corporation will get their jobs back when G.M. resumes second shift operations at two auto assembly plants and increases production at a truck plant, the com­pany said Friday. The leading domestic auto maker said the produc­tion increases reflect a continuing improvement of market conditions spurred in part by lower interest rates that its lending unit, the General Motors Acceptance Corporation, is offering to finance new G.M. vehicles. The affected workers are in Fairfax, K.an., and Lansing and Detroit, Mich. -AP 
Wall Street Update 
The stock market climbed to a three-month high Monday, extending a spring rally in a late buying surge led by tech­nology issues. The DowJones average of 30 industrials, which rose 
9.04 points Friday, added another 3.42 points to close at 865.58. Th<; blue-chip average recovered from being down 2.95 points at noon. The Dowjones industrials has picked up 70.11 points since falling to a two-year low on March 8. The last time it closed higher wasjan. 29, when it finished at 871.10. -AP 
.. 
; 
.... 

Microco:mputers flo-w into dortns 
By ALEX SZILVAS have the ability to be hooked up to having its own system, however, B&TEditor the 370 system via an RS 232 jack more terminals will be made and a telephone coupler," he says. available for student use." 
For those who believe that per­"By hooking up to the central Davis believes that the continual sonal computers are the way of the campus system, one's personal com­increase in microcomputer future, the future may qot b.: as far puter gains expanded memory and popularity may eventually help away as most think. The number of access to data which would allow it cause the TSO system to be college students who are making use to function much like a hardwired replaced. of these microcomputers is rising terminal." "The technology which designed sharply each year, according to a Davis' survey determined that 36 the IBM 370 is becoming outdated," survey conducted by junior Eric of the personal computers can be he states. "The microcomputer is Davis. hooked up to the central system. the thing of the future. Of course, 
The survey, administered last Sep­With the rapidly growing number of the microcomputer can operate tember to a sampling of the fresh­microcomputers on campus, without being connected to the man class at Notre Dame, r•evealed however, the problem concerning central system, but with all the addi­that more than 400 ofthese students the limitations of the TSO system tional memory and other advantages had access to personal computers at arises. offered by such a connection, its home. Even more interesting is the "The IBM 370 system can only capabilities are greatly enhanced." fact that 67 freshmen brought their handle approximately 80 users at What will happen here at Notre microcomputers with them to one time. Regardless of the number Dame remains to be seen. At Notre Dame. of terminals which will become Carnegie-Mellon, however, the ad­
"The number ofstudents purchas­available through converted ministration is encouraging the use ing their own microcomputers is microcomputers, the system will of personal computers in its own growing at an incredible rate," Davis remain unable to accommodate way -by requiring all freshmen en­said. "Next yeai's freshman class will more users at the same time," Davis rolled by 1985 to have their own probably include twice as many stu­says. " With the administration microcomputer. 
r······........................... 
Brunswick &Port Authority, NYC. 
+ NEXTSUMMERENJOY ANEWEXPERIENCEIN + TRAVEL and LEARNING + 
• •+ 
For info call John--8739.
+ with the + : UNIVERSITYof EVANSVILLE : 
+ ECON 200, INTRODUCTION TO INTERNATIONAL :
•+ BUSINESS + The Observer 
+ Four undergraduate U.E. quarter hourscredit. + 
nEWs 0€paRtm€nt : ATUofEHARLAXTONCOLLEGEINENGLAND: : + July 19-August 8 -Classsroom instruc~ion by + 
1s accept1nq appl1cat1ons ~on
+ Dr. Ray W. Aremsman, Univ. ofEvansville : : Dr. Bert C. Faulhaber, BallState Univ. •. + -Sixvisiting lectures from Britishbusinessmen COpy€bttOR : -Threefield trips to British firms : 
anb 
: ON THE CONTINENT: August 9-20 : 
+ A dozen interviews, lectures, field trips and plant ++ + toursinvolvingOECD,EEC, Universities, U.S. +
• Oay €bttoR.
+ Embassies, banks, Mercedes-Benz, IBM, Ford,and + + EliLilly,etc.inthecitiesof: + 
: Paris, Brussels, Rotterdam, Amsterdam, : 
these aRe pa1 b pos1t1ons.
+ Bonn, Stuttgart, Sindelfingen, Frankfort + 
dents with their own computers as this year's." 
According to Davis, the average price for one of the more common systems being purchased by stu­dents is around $2,500, although prices vary. The survey found that the most popular personal com­puter on this campus is the Apple II, followed by the TRS 80 (by Radio Shack), the Osborne I, and the Com­modore VIC-20 and PET. 
Davis is quick to point out, however, that computer equipment, much like stereo equipment, iscon­stantly improving. 
"An updated survey," claims Davis, "would show students purchasing newer models with more capability for little if any in­crease in cost. For example, the Apple II Plus has recently taken over its predecessor's position as the best selling personal computer. It offers greater memory and more options for about the same price." 
Davis believes that the new Uni­versity computer system offers some possible advantages to owners ofpersonal computers. 
"Many of the microcomputers 
N.J./ N.Y. Afew seats are still available for the end of the year bus. Bus stops in East 

University upgrades 
system 
From Information Services 
As with any new "employee," the initial tasks will be fairly simple-­handling payroll and some ad­ministrative tasks. In time, the responsibilities will mount to es-, tablishing a wide-ranging, sys­tematic network ofinformation. 
But then, this is no ordinary "employee," but a new computer system being installedjune 30 at the University of Notre Dame. Ad­ministrative tasks such as compiling employee information, personnel lists and salaries will be among the intial items of information programmed into the Hewlett­Packard 3000 Series 64 system. 
According to Richard Spencer, as­sistant provost for computing, 11 bids were reviewed before the con­tract with Hewlett-Packard was signed March 10. Spencer said the HP 3000 system was chosen for a 
combination  of  cost,  superior  
software for  information  handling  
and productivity tools.  


: COST: $2,680 from Chicago : 
Applications are available for 1983

+ DETAILS: Univ. ofEvansville Ball State Univ. + 
AN TOSTAL CHAIRMAN

+ Dr. Aremsman Dr. Faulhaber + 
until5 pm Tues., April27 at the S.U. 

: 812-479-2854 317-285-7893 : 
secretary's desk, 2nd floor LaFortune.

Oeabl1ne: Webnesbay at 5pm.
•~................................• 
Editorials 
Tuesday, April 27, 1982 -page 5 

What's our market value? 
I'm not sure I buy the idea that of us who are the right age at the Everyone agrees that at the worst, everyone "owes" service to his or right time to give a polite refusal to there will be few casuali ties. her country. What does "country" all calls for military service. The But if you are one of those 
mean? Is it the people or the govern­politicians could then gum or bore casualties, what difference does it ment? Why do we feel obliged to do each other to death. This is not going make? Where's that pay-off? How service? to happen. come you're the only one who has to Too many people are willing to pay the price? Because someone in a 
help governments out when it resposible position said so. 
comes to the military. I think it's just Getting killed or maimed and the 
great. Everyone who wants to feelings that come with killing 
Jim McGillivray 
Left Out 
should go right ahead and play sol­someone may at times be necessary. 
Because we're always been told dier. I don't know on a theoretical level. 1 that we must exchange service for This whole Falklands crisis is a do know that on a practical level, the the good things. This is a position set good example of politicians getting price is never worth it. 
up and universally endorsed by the themselves into a flag-waving frenzy Instead of the patriotic drivel governments of the world to get a and then sending off a large number designed to dull the brain, think in 
lot of young men to die and kill for (most probably quite willingly) of very real terms. Concentrate on a them. young men to fight. few ounces of hot lead dancing The draft is only a peripheral issue The British government is all of through your digestive tract before 
right now in the face ofinternational the sudden quite concerned about leaving your back with a foot wide protest against nuclear weapons and the rights and wishes of locals. The chunck ofskin and muscle. the present administration's tough locals happen to agree. The Ar­I consider my life the most impor­
Slance on the issue. People are gentine government suddenly tant gift I currently have. My life is questioning the morality of nuclear pounces on the tradition. absolutely crucial to my health and weapons and their use. This will Both governments are prepared happiness. Others may not think so, hopefully drift into concepts of war to play tough. Quite easy for them. It but all in all, my life is fairly wonder­itself. will do both countries good. ful. 

God did a pretty good job. I Governments have no right to re­assume he did at least as good a job quire the spending of our most as everyone else. We have an obliga­precious gift. Nothing is worth it. tion to that Giver, if only out ofcom­That isn't service, it's robbery. 
mon courtesy. The decision to join the military is 
One doesn't throw gifts away. highly personal and should be well That obligation is one of care and thought out in terms of personal respect, both for ourselves and for values. No war or other emergency that gift oflife in others. There aren't usurps that right of the individual to any intermediaries here. decide for himselfwhat is "worth it." 
No general or president or pope I don't trust that anyone else comes between each one of us and would show the same concern for God when it comes to life. my worth that God and I do. There 
Jesus said that the greatest thing are some terribly callous people in 
we can do is lay down our life for a the world. friend. That special situation may So I think if a draft notice comes well come up in the military; I know for me I'll respectfully decline and it has in the past. But presidents and wait for a better offer; the pay-off prime ministers have no right to or­around here isn't enough. 
der it. 
P.O.BoxQ 
Are Catholics confused? 

DearEditor: think there is debate about whether the Church still teaches 
The Law. Library check-out desk the "real" presence ofChrist in the has become a forum for informal Eucharist." This proclamation was weekly debates on matters which based on an understanding of law students find particularly ur­courses taken in the under­gent. graduate school at Notre Dame. 
Last Tuesday evening, the infor­Unless the teaching in the en­mal debates took place as usual. On cyclical Mysterium Fidei has been that occasion we discussed superseded, it is clear the Church religion. One of the participants still teaches the "real" presence. suggested that many, if not most, (We are aware ofno post Vatican II Catholics are the not cognizant of documents which alter this teach­the Church's teachings on rather ing.) 
"common" doctrine. as a test of Though only one person we this assertion, law students enter­questioned about the Immaculate ing and leaving the library were Conception professed a belief that asked two questions: the feast celebrated Mary's con­
I )Do you know what the ception of Christ, still, from past doctrine of transubstantiation is? conversations with fellow law stu­
2) Do you know what the Feast dents, we know there are many of the Immaculate Conception is more who hold this erroneous about? belief. 
There were more people This ignorance of the Church's (Catholics) who did not recognize teachings is bothersome, especial­the term "transubstantiation" than ly considering the level of educa­those who did recognize the term. tion attained by the Once transubstantiation was ex­undergraduates and law students lained (not definitely ofcourse), it at Notre Dame. became clear that art of the If educated Catholics do not problem was simply a failure to as­know enough about their faith to sociate the term with the euc­share it with others or to defend it, harist. ifso called, please tell us on whom 
We say "part of the problem" does this burden rest? because there was some doubt as to what the Church teaches about DexterBrewer the Eucharist today. james Hostetler 
One "subject" proclaimed "I Law School 
With war almost invariably comes a draft. Wars last longer than military experts predict and all the men who get killed must be replaced, usually by a lot men who didn't want to go or were too young for first-round festivities. 
A draft notice renders personal wishes meaningless and requests one's immediate presence. 
The ideal solution would be for all 
Editor's Note 
Today continues the week-long series ofeditorials devoted to the historical, personal, and community approaches to seroice. Whether in the military, U.S. government, religious, orprivate sec· tor, volunteer and mandatory seroice becomes a prominent con­cern ofstudents entering the outside world. Throughout the week, students andfaculty members examine various seroice-related op­tions and discern a meaningful outlook of the world ofhelping others. 

Can civil service save us? 
"A mad fellow met me on the forces occasionally precipitate. 
in any one of a number of civil way, and told me I bad unloaded Now don't get the idea that I want service organizations to benefit our all the gibbets andpressed the dead to get drafted. In fact, I am just as 
country outside of armed combat. I bodies." much against war and nuclear es­tlnd this to be a wonderful solution. 
Henry IV, Part One calation as "the next guy," whoever Everybody can show his love for his he may be. I would probably sign up country without getting all bloody to fight in WW Ill if it ever does oc­
in a nasty war. Rather than going out Lately, reports would have us cur, but that would just be to have and shooting all the nasties who believe that the United States armed something to do until the major con­want to turn our country or our forces are in the same predicament tinents experienced meltdown. No, allies into political tributaries, we as Shakespeare's Falstaff. Rumours the fact that I and most of my friends can do more constructive work for are rampant ofdrug abuse, illiteracy, have already registered for a draft the impoverished of our own land homosexuality, ami misuse of com­that is threatening implc:mentation and others. "Trade in your M-I6'sfor mand in every branch of the scares me a great deal, and since soup ladles and shovels, and trans­
military. An Army officer once told there are no wars around that I per­form our land into what it has the sonally consider worth fighting, I am 
potential to be ... a public service
Joe Musumeci already scheming ways to get 
message from your local draft around my as-yet-non-existent draft 
hoard." It seems unlikely, but it is an board. 
attractive concept.Looking In That is, I was until I read Sean 
1 find only one major flaw in Mr. me that a large portion of the Faircloth's proposal. It will do no­
Faircloth's editorial in yesterday's issue. Mr. Faircloth expressed
military is comprised of those who thing to protect the country for could not get a "real job." He which Sean professes such patriotic
feelings of patriotism which I mentoned that the Army ex­feelings. If the "Big One" ever does perienced lc:ss of his deficiency, due 
come along, it's going to be awfully to a higher "standard" ofenlistment. hard to train all those social workers Waiting for a bus home in March, I and irrigation specialists to fight a met a Marine recruiter in Michiana tactical nuclear war. Regional who told me "them boys in Yes, Mr. Faircloth has sparked my the Army can't even spell they's own patriotism; but the fact remains that names." The few, the proud ... if a draft is to be implemented, its Because of this problem, many sole purpose should be to raise a people have come out in favor of a fighting force capable of defending renewed selective service program. the land which Sean and, I suspect, Most of these people, predictably, most of us care so much about. I are those who would not be affected don't want a draft, but if it comes, I by such an institution. However, suppose we all feel but are a little will go. I can't say I want to fight, there is a lot to be said for the idea ashamed to admit even to ourselves. even for my country; but that, with respect to the favorable effect it Mr. Faircloth also proposed a won­maybe, is not because I don't ­might have on the quality of our derful modilication of previous deep down I really do -it is be­armed forces, not to mention the ex­selective service programs, in which cause I am perhaps still a little tem to which it might alleviate the those drafted could request to act ashamed. Ashamed and very, very drought of manpower the volunteer not in the armed services per se, hut scared. 
Editorial Board Department Managers 
Tht' Oh1arw 1s an independent n(·w.~papcr publ1slwd by the students of the 
/:'a/ilt,. ill·( .hit•/ .\1tchal'i .\toni.. /lusint'ss .lltllltl,t:<'r Tony A1l'ilo
llrmcr\lty of Notre Dame duLac and SJint Mary's College. It does not ntn·s~Jrdy 
lltlllll_t:ill,t.: Fdil11r lh :111 \ cr lkrl..llH>t'~ C.t 1111rull<'r .. l'ril' Sdtul/rdlcd the pol1uc-\ of the adminl\tratiOit of c1ther 1nstitut1on. The news ~~ report· 
1-'.1"<'1 nlil'c \cu·sl:dilnr "'dll Hmt .·lt/1'1'1'//~HII,t: .1/t//li/,1.!1'1' <:1m.,< >wcucd J\ .Hcurately and Js ohJCdi\ely JS pos.~1hlc. Editorials represent the opinion of 
.\Ill \I'll'S l:di/11r .\l.lrgart·t I·< "mot· l'rwluclitlll .lltllltl,~t·r :\laura .\lurplnJ ffiJJOnty of the Ed1torial Board. Co.nrnmLHic,, opinions and letters arc the views 
\fllll·ts J;,1if11r <.llfl~ :>;.-nlll'~ Circu/alitlll .llanager l{a\ lughnof tltt·1r authors. ( olumn spa~e 1' avat!Jhlc to all members of the l0mmun1ty, and 
Fdllllrills Fdi/llr Paul .\It'( .tllll .\ )'.\11'11/.~ .llt/1/tl,t.:t'/' IIrun·< >aklqtht· frre expression of vary1ng opm10ns on campu), through l.c:tters, 1~ en~..ounged. h•tillll'<t l:tll/ur T.1n linm 11 -------------· 
/'hu/11 FNI11r IL1dll'l Blount
P.O.Hox Q, Notre Dame, IN '46556 (219) H9-H05 
~~()1"tS=~==~=·=i=e~S=================================T=u=es=d=ay~,=Ap=r=il=27='=I9=8=2===pa=g==e6
By The Obserz,er and The Associated Press 
Noel O'Sullivan'sNotre Dame golfteam finished lith out of 15 teams in the Mid-American Invitational 36-hole tourna­ment that concluded yesterday at Western Michigan University. Ball State won the tourney with a team score of 759, followed by North­ern Illinois with 770 and Bowling Green with 773. The Irish finished with a team total of 800. Top placers for the Irish were sophomore Frank Leyes ( llth with a 152 total) and senior Bob Horak (14th with a 154 ). Ball State's Kirk Schooley won the individual competition with a 146. The Irish next will participate in the Northern Intercol­legiate, a 54-hole tournament which begins Thursday at the Univer­sity oflowa. -The Observer 
The SMC softball team,after winning ten in a row, has now lost its last five games. Yesterday, the Belles went into extra innings before losing to St. Xavier College, 13-8, in ten innings. Jacki Wasni and Elaine Suess each had a pairofsingles and an RBI. Over the weekend, Saint Mary's dropped a pair of doubleheaders, losing 9-6 and 9-1 to Evansville and 11-8 and 9-4 to Anderson. Despite the recent cold spell, the Belles still boast a respectable 15-11 record. Their next game will be tomorrow afternoon at three when they play host to Grace College. -The Observer 
The ND baseball team continues its homestand this afternoon with a doubleheader against Bowling Green. Game time is 1 p.m. atjake Kline Field. Larry Gallo's Irish are now 19-12 on the season after winning three out offour games this past weekend against Dayton and Detroit. -The Observer 
The Only home match this spring for the Notre Dame women's tennis team takes place this afternoon at the Courtney Tennis Center as the Irish play host to Northern Illinois. Though they are 2-9 on the season, Sharon Petro's Irish have won two oftheir last three matches. Today's match begins at 3 p.m. -The Observer 
East Lansingis the destination of the Notre Dame men's tennis team this afternoon, as the Irish face host Michigan State. Tom Fallon's squad is coming off a disappointing 6-3 loss on Sunday to tiny Kalamazoo College, and will look to bounce back against the Spartans. Then, the Irish will return home to face DePaul on Thursday in their tina! match of the spring before the NCAA cham­pionships. -The Observer 
"S • M bin "
COrtng aC eS, led by captain Tom Hillstrom, defeated "Intrepid Trippers," 15-13, on Sunday to capture the second annual An Tostal Ultimate Frisbee Tournament. The "Machines" trailed for most of the match, but were able to come back and take the championship. -The Observer 
The ND women's softballteam, after splitting a pair of weekend games, took their frustrations out on host Grace College yesterday. The Irish swept a doubleheader by scores of 21­16 and 16-0. Over the weekend, the Irish lost to Anderson College, 7-1, but then rebounded to defeat Bethel College, 14-2.-The Ob­
server 
The Blue-Gold game, the annual intrasquad football scrimmage that culminates the spring practice season, will take place this Saturday, May 1, at Notre Dame Stadium. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will be admitted free ofcharge by showing their ID. Tickets for the general public are available now and are price at $2.50 for adults and $1.00 for children under 17. Tickets can also be purchased the day of the game for $3.50 (adults) and n .50 (children). Proceeds will benefit the Notre Dame Club ofSt. Joseph County and its annual scholarship fund drive. -The Observer 
The NFL Draft of college seniors begins today in New York City and condludes tomorrow. Top choices are expected to include quarterbacks Art Schlichter ofOhio State andJim McMahon of Brigham Young, and Heisman Trophy winner Marcus Allen of USC. As for Notre Dame players, linebacker Bob Crable, cornerback John Krimm and offensive tackle Phil Pozderac are expected to be chosen in the early rounds. On Thursday, The Observer will publish its annual NFL Draft supplement profiling the Irish players that are chosen. But, if you can't wait that long, the ESPN cable network will carry the draft proceedings live both days. -The Observer 
The NUL playoffscontinue tonight with the opening games of the conference finals. In the Campbell Conference, Van­couver visits Chicago in Game One, while in the Wales Conference, the New York Islanders play host to Quebec in the first game. Each series will be best-of-seven, with the winners playing for the Stanley Cup. -The Observer 
Sports­board 

NATIONAL LEAGUE 
East  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
St LOUIS  13  5  722  
Montreal  8  5  .615  25  
New York  9  7  563  3  
Pittsburgh  8  429  5  
Ch1cago Philadelphia  6 4  11 ,  353 267  6.5 7.5  
West  
Atlanta  13  765  
San D1ego  11  4  733  1  
Los Angeles  8  9  471  5  
San Franctsco  6  10  375  65  
Houston  7  12  368  7  
Ctnctnnali  6  11  353  7  

Yesterday's Results Pittsburgh 6, Atlanta 4 Houston 6, St. LoUis 2 Only Games Scheduled 
TOday' a Games Cincinnati (Bereny1 3-1) at Ch1cago (Larson 0-1) Pittsburgh (Griffin 0-1) at Atlanta (McWilliams 1-0) Houston (Ruhle 0-2) at St. LoUis (Mura 2-0) New York (Zachry 1-0) at San Diego (Montefusco 1­2) Philadelphia (Chnstenson 1-1) at Los Angeles (Reuss 1-1) Montreal (Rogers 2-1) at San Franc1sco (Holland 1 -2) 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Eaat 
w L Pet. GB Boston 11 6 .647 Detro1t 11 6 647 Milwaukee 8 6 .571 1 5 Cleveland 6 8 .429 3.5 New York 6 8 .429 3.5 Toronto 5 11 .313 5.5 Baltimore 4 10 .286 5.5 
Weat Calitorma 13 5 .722 Chicago 9 6 .600 2.5 Kansas City 9 6 600 2.5 Seattle 9 10 474 4.5 Oakland 8 10 .444 5 Texas 6 8 429 5 Mtnnesota 7 12 368 65 
Yeaterday'a Results Boston 3-5, Ch1cago 2-0 Only Games Scheduled 
Today'a Games Texas (Medich 1-1) at Toronto (Bomback 0-3) Kansas Cny (Frost 3-0) at Boston (Eckersley 2-1) Seattle (Banmster 3-0) at Cleveland (Wa1ts 0-3) Oakland (Noms 0-2) at Balt1more (Flanagan 0-2) California (Moreno 1-2) at New York (Gu1dry 2-0) Ch1cago (Burns 2-0) at Milwaukee (Lerch 1 -0) Detro1t (Morns 3-1) at Minnesota (Jackson 0-2) 

Classifieds  The Observer will accept classtfleds Mon­day through Fnday. 10 a.m. to 4 30 p.m. However. classifieds to appear 1n the next 1ssue must be rece1ved by 3 p.m. the bustness day pnor to tnsertton. All classtfleds must be prepaid. e1ther 1n person or through the mail.  
FOUND: A puppy 1n the Administration 5 ROOMS FURNISHED AT $125 PEA BUilding on Apnl 27, 1982. Please call PERSON WITH UTILITIES PAID HOMENOTICES Luc1 at 5258 between 7 and 4 and identify. AWAY FROM HOME NEWLY DECORATED WITH PANELLING AND NEW CARPETING IN EVERY ROOM HAIRCUTS! ONLY $4 FOR GUYS AND Lost: Prescnpt1on sunglasses during An ALL SHARE HUGE LIVING ROOM WITH $6 FOR GIRLS--LOT OF EXPERIENCE T ostal p1cn1c by North Dimng Hall. If FIREPLACE. KITCHEN WITH CARPET­IN STYLING, ROTC AND PERSONALLY found, please call x2184 ING AND APPLIANCES AND ALL UTEN­DESIGNED CUTS FOR YOUR FACE SILS TWO BATHROOMS WITH AND HAIR. CALL MICHOLE AT 7951 Lost: A tweed overcoat Reward 1f found. SHOWER AND. BATH. DOUBLE LOUIS ph 3160 GARAGE AND GOOD PARKING FREE PUBLICATIONS on chem1cal, FACILITIES CALL 233-2245 OR 282­nuclear war. Research, posters, Lost Dunlop Max-t11 p1tch1ng wedge on 1664 brochures. Conservat1ve v1ew Quantities wed 4/21 on or near 7th green it found ava1lable. 413 E. Cap1tol, Washington, please call v~nce at 27-2-7645 DC20003. LOST: One Orgamc Chemistry Book in EARN UP TO $500 OR MORE EACH the South D1n1ng Hall last week and I WANTED YEAR BEGINNING SEPTEMBER FOR would dearly appreciate 1ts return no 1-3 YEARS SET YOUR OWN HOURS. questions sked. If necessary Will even MONTHLY PAYMENT FOR PLACING pay ransome money. Please return I 19 to POSTERS ON CAMPUS. BONUS 129 D1llon or call6664. Need nde to MPLS area aher finals. Can BASED ON RESULTS. PRIZES leave anyt1me a her 4 on 5/10. W1ll share AWARDED AS WELL 800-526-0883 usual Call Phil at 8682. Find lucrative summer/permanent JOb 1n Wanted: Japan leaching English. No expenence or FOR RENT A nde to ATLANTA af!er commencement. Japanese necessary Book. $4.95: Take me home... Call8649 Fnends of Japan. Box 2821, Vassar Col­lege. Poughkeepsie, NY 12601 3 houses for rent--all on same block 5 PART-TIME TUTORS tor Educational bdrm-$450. 6 bdrm-$540 per mo Call Center to teach classes of students FOR TYPING CALL 288-5855 277-3461 or 272-9299 prepanng tor LSA T or MCAT ReqUires h1gh GPA, teaching expenence a plus Need a ndetoATLANTA? Go1n South for SUMMER SUBLET -Turtle Creek Ava11 Des1re law student for LSAT. med1cal or summer and have lots of room Call Dave 5/1 5 ­8/30 112 share of two bedroom apt graduate or PhD student 1n sc1ence area 3114 Fully furnished, pool $95 per month. Call for MCAT Classes beg1n 1n June, con~ Jack 277-t 185. t~nued employment possible throughout ALFRED HITCHCOCK FANS! See that year Call232-2366. all-t1me class1c. 39 STEPS. 9:00 PM 1n 4 Bdrm N Shore $270 mo total Call Patty Howard Hall Chapel AND Best of all, 11 s 3193228735 Call refunded TWO DESPERATE WOMEN NEED A /reel!! PLACE TO SLEEP1 PLEASE SELL US For Rent· Student Hous1ng-raled YOUR LOFT CALL DIANE OR MARl AT supenor-summer andor fall. Clean, safe, 8006 AND MAKE US AN OFFER laundry, utilities, $100mo total. 291­1405LOST/FOUND Be your own boss. Comfortable 5 NEED TWO ROOMATES TO SHARE AN bedroom. completely turn1shed house tor APARTMENT NEXT YEAR IN CAMPUS 5 or 6 Close to campus Phone 288-3942. VIEW CALL JIM AT 3282 Lost: One set of keys somewhere be­tween Sacred Heart and Lew1s It found, 2 student houses foor rent on Ntre Dame NEED RIDE to Ball State or Kokomo please return to 406 Howard or call M1ke Ave One 4-stu, one 5-stu house. Wtth1n weekend of Apnl 30 Will share $$ Call at8279 walk1ng distance Ava1L fall semester 82 8088 Call even1ngs 272-8870 FOUND CAT Black & white w1th black AOOMATE WANTED: Clean 2 bedroom spot on nose & blue d1amond stud collar House ·'Jr rent summer only, close to home Good area. n1ce yard Furn1shed near Mornssey and Howard ha'ls Call41­campus, excellent cond111on 287-5361 except tor bedroom Call234-1661 days 5652. or 234-9970 evmngs Ask tor Colleen.  Need nde to 0 C. as soon as poss1ble af­ter Sat • May 8 Call Bnan 4521 ATTN CLEVELANDERS-Need nde home Fnday 4-30 M11<e-881 6 ·~ FOR SALE USED BOOK SHOP. HOURS WED . SAT. SUN 9-7 CASPERSON 1303 BUCHANAN RD., NILES. Special Discounts tor Notre Dame faculty on computers and penpheral products, pnnters. modems, etc. Hewlett­Packard, Zemth. FOURWAY COM­PUTER PRODUCTS, INC., 52758 US 31 North (Acrose !rom North VIllage Mall)2n-n20. For Sale: Stereo--JVC components,AAL speakers. Must hear to bel1eve! Call Ted at x1780. tor sale Yamaha 12 stnng gUitar call 1 1 59 1975 VW. low m11eage, good car, no rust. AM-FM radiO Ask1ng $2500 or make of­fer 259-2367, ask tor Nancy 4-sale 74 MGB burg 63,400m good cond $2300 call 255-9784 CELLO FOR SALE CALL 234-9974 I need two grad tickets desperately. It you can help, please call Marc at 8378 Please let the whole family ... me graduate-! need 2 more tickets. Call Mary&n9 DESPERATELY NEED 2 GRAD TIX' CALL BOB 277-1 1 17  COLLEGE REPUBLICANS CLUB ELEC­TIONS, TOMORROW, APRIL 28 7·30PERSONALS PM. Am 104 0 Shaughnessey Hall BE THERE! Bern1e and Jean Mane, MIKE GURDAK FOR U.M.O.C ...... HE Graduation requ~rements apply to all REALLY WANTS ITIIII graduating semors. Check with your deans to see 1f you really have fulfilled all COMPUTER TYPING of papers, diS­of your graduatiOn requirements! Maybe sertations, books. If you must rev1se, we you should be go~ng to Ch1cago thiS save you lime and money. Beautiful weekend 1nstead of the Kentucky Derby! fimshed work. 233-9900 A naw art exhibit Ia opening up at the VIC T AYBACK tor SENIOR FELLOW Snlta Muaeum on a special one -k loan from the Washington D.C. Art Muaeum. The prlcaleaa collection con­Jack Ryan and Tom Walsh. sists ol ugly and pathetically poor Just wanted to say thanks tor be1ng suchdrawings by JUDY FENLON'S kids, no good sports th1s year. Good luck on ex­relation lo Jerry's "kids", though you ams & have a great summerwould never know II by their looks and Love. art work. The display will run May 3-7, Patty, Katie, & L1saand then It will travel on to Chicago before going on to London. To the g~rl w1th the best legs 1n sohball.BOSTON BAGGAGE TRUCK DetailS Wasn t 11 fun be1ng one of the guys? soon Watch OBSERVER and newsletter Atlanla Atlanta. Atlanta SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS AREI need a nde to Atlanta aher commence~ STILL AVAILABlE: Danville, IL-A posi­ment Take me home Call Jeb at 8649 tion 1n a hospital IS available for a pre-med Atlanta Atlanta Atlanta student Kansas C1ty-Serv1ce placement work1ng w1th the elderly and other pos­Sibilities Contact Andrea Shappell at the HEY NANCY EIDE: YOU DON T LOOK A Center tor Expenent1al Learn1ng. 1110 DAY OVER 22--AND THAT LOOKS L1brary. 239-5319 Alumn1 Clubs w1ll PRETTY GOOD TO US!! HAPPY award $1000 scholarshiP BIRTHDAY AND CONGAATS FOR THE BASKETBALL VICTORY!!! THE FISHER BOYS Jeremy Bad1tch Terry and Brother Carl Congratula­Cute p1cture Boy, are you a stud--two tions to this bride and groom, who beaut1ful g1rls! made their vows olllclallaat saturday. The beat man was brother Dave, the p s Where s Jeff? brides maida, among others included glamorous Chris, Ruth-Ann, and Ar­To the person who stole my Complete cher(who just had to where a dress for Works of Shakespeare book at supper this memorial occaaalon). The ushers last Saturday You could not poss1bly included Officer Black,Shady, Shmika, wanttt as much as Ineed 11 and treasure 11 the Freak end an unidentified hippie. So please put 11 back where you found 11: Frodo wee the Ring-bearer. The I m sure you can afford to buy another n-lyweda will begin their adventure one--unfortunately. I cannot Therefore. by windsurfing Nlagra lalla. please return 11 Sincerely. Joe Sweeney  

.. 

lhe~r======================================= 
~~~~~============================T=u=es=d=a=y,=A=p=ri=l=27='=1=9=82===p=a=g==e7 
Molarity 

Doonesbury 
MAY I HA~ YOU!< 
A7T£NTION, Pt.tASt? 7HIS IS YO/F. CAP­TAIN SPMkiN6.. 

Simon 
ACROSS 26 Apple 1 Mup!)et star 29 Quivering 5 Canvas motions
The Daily Crossword 
covers, 32 Put into 
for short office 10 Calif. city 33 Tear's 14 Vacation partner 
spot In 34 Glove Italy 36 And -bed 15 Bathsheba's 37 Counsels 
husband 38 Noted 16 School item clinic 17 Experts 39 Racetrack 18 English 40 Chronicle: 
dramatist abbr. 19 Trickery 41 -Park, 20 Intimate N.J. 22 Mount-, 42 Hard to 
Calif. define 24 Wading bird 44 Fireplace 25 Of the ear finish 
Monday's Solution 
©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
Michael Molinelli 

ALWRYS 'THE '5AME' ~ALL IJCLfS ON THE cF 1\lE ~ECII: REWL r­

\N(, IN ACRITICRL AMOUNT Of ?.I.OOD \.O~S ... 

lXX.T~ ! ~RELY 
YOU'fi.E.r--lOT t>UC.­GE~T\N6 ... THRT IT'5 
R... A... 
VAMPI~ .1!'.1 


Jeb Cashin 
NO. A 
LAUMDRY STAPLE. 

45 Spouse 12 Enclosure 46 Conclusive 13 So be It 47 Surrey 21 Newspaper 
trimming item 50 Aversion 23 Goal 54-Lenape 25 Praying 55 Certain figure 
pole in art 57 O'Hara home 26 Mexican 58 Formicary money 
dwellers 27 "The Man-" 59 Accrue: var. 28 Flower 60 Norwegian part 
king 29 Concise 61 Blow a horn 30 Laughing 62 Like some 31 Class 
roofs 33 Relinquish 63 Comedienne 35 Implement Martha 37 Bleached 41 Rigging DOWN support 1 Envelope 43 Leave part slack in 2 Elmer or 44 Like some Grantland potatoes 3 Baltic Sea 46 Measure: feeder var. 4 Rona 47 Apartment 
Barrett 48 Nevada city 5 Retire 49 Division 6 Scopes word 7 Omani money 50 "The Tin-" 8 Living 51 Room for 
quarters senor 9 Gives pro-52 Waiter's 
taction to receptacle 10 Dan Rather 53 Projecting 11 Partnership edge 
: Notre Dame Student Union presents : 
: 
ALGER HISS On tThe McCarthy Era' 
-Former United Nations Advisor -New Deal Activist -Delegate to Yalta Conference 
: Tuesday, Apri/27 8:00PM 
: 

: ..~tiiiJIIJI•• 
........~.·········-"'~...
..:::;• ··.~ 
SE GtiH !§
..... •...
-... .... 
....... Q_(JIII .... 
:.:: := 
,... • ·~ 
~·· • .·~ · qjjjjjjj\j{\~ 
Campus 
•12:10 
p.m. -Art Noon talk, "Facts and Fan· tasies", Ambrose Richardson, NO, Annenberg Auditorium, free 

•1 
p.m. -Baseball, NO vs. Bowling Green, Jake Kline Field, 

•3 
p.m. -Tennis, ND Women vs. Northern Il­linois University, Courtney Courts, 

•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "How Women See", Gretchen Gardner, Annenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by Isis Gallery, 

•7:30 
p.m. -Meeting, For all interested in Anti­Nuclear March, Hayes Healy Auditorium, 

•7:30 
p.m. -Awards Program, Awards Program for Literary Contest Winners, 331 O'Shaugnessy Hall, free 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "The McCarthy Era", Alger Hiss, Library Auditorium, Sponsored by SUAC, 


T.V. Tonight 
7:00p.m. 16 22 28 34 
7:30p.m. 28 8:00p.m. 16 22 
28 8:30p.m. 28 9:00p.m. 28 !O:OOp.m. 16 22 28 10:30p.m. 16 22 28 ll:OOa.m. 28 11:30p.m. 16 
Bret Maverick 
Q.E.D. Happy Days 
Channel :H Auction "lip, lip and 
Away" 
laverne and Shirley 
A Woman Called Golda Pt. II 
CBS Movie: "The Jayne Mansfield 
Story" 
Three's Company Too Close For Comfort Hart to Hart NewsCenter 16 22 Eyewitness News Newswatch 28 Tonight Show Alice/WKRP/McCioud ABC News Nightline Fantasy Island Late Night With David Letterman 
WILL YOU BE 
THE NEXT 
MOLINELLI? 
The Observer is looking for new cartoon strips ( 4-panel, 1-panel, etc.). Submit idea and sample 
of work by 5:00pm Friday, 
April 30 to The Observer office, 
3rd floor LaFortune 
(after all, anything is better than Smerd!) 


of a kind 56 Yoko
:...................................................................=············*****"!*****************************J 
: Premier: PIGys 1982-83 * 1 StGrting: The Student PIGyers : :~ Directed & Produced by: ? (why not you!?) * ,.. 
$ApplicGtionsforproducerGndfordirectorof $
* b * 
,..piGys Gte eing Gccepted. Pick up your * 
* ,..
lt-GpplicGtion in the Student Union Offices, !
* ~ 
:2nd floor LGFortune. : 
: : 
• 
.. 

; Memorial library Auditorium ; :**************A stGr could be born*****: ; ................................................................... : ··········••************************************ 
I' 

Tuesday, April27, 1982-page 8 

Irish defeat Ashland; play Ohio State next 
By MIKE SULLIVAN good. Sports Writer Linehan led the Notre Dame at­tack with three goals and three as­
The Notre Dame lacrosse team sists. Bonde, Pearsall and Mike showed no ill effects from its ride to Quinn each netted three goals while Ashland College in Ohio as it Pace added two. Mike Farino, Jerry 
defeated Ashland, 17-9, in an impor­Levesque and Kevin Rooney con­tant game last Saturday. tributed a goal apiece. In the goal, 
The victory over Ashland, which Rob Simpson stopped 12 shots and had been tied with Notre Dame for Pat Poletti stopped four. first place in the University Division, "We played a very aggressive is a great help for the Irish in their game like we normally do," said Irish drive toward the Midwest Lacrosse Coach Rich O'Leary. "Our defense Association championship game. also played very well." 
Coupled with Michigan State's up­Next up for the Notre Dame is 
set of Ohio State on Saturday, the Ohio State. The Buckeyes handed victory lowers NO's magic number the Irish their only loss in the divi­to just one. Ifthe Irish win their two sion this year. Nevertheless, O'Leary remaining games this week, they is confident that his team will clinch will host the championship game the division title tomorrow when during final exam week. But there is the Buckeyes come to town. a chance that the game would be "First, there's a revenge factor,"
The Notre Dame lacrosse team, led by goalie Saturday at Ashland, and face divisiorl foe Ohio 
played on May 9, which is an off-day said O'Leary. "Also, our defense is
Rob Simpson ( 1 ), is lookingfor itsfirst University State tomorrow. See Mike Sullivan's story at right 
for exams. better than it was when we played
Division championship in only its secondyear of for details. (Photo by CherylErtelt) 
It did not take the Irish long to them before and our two lines of

varsity competition. The Irish wen~ victorious on 
hurt Ashland's chances for the divi­midfielders are more consistent sion title. Twenty-five seconds into overall." 
the game, Dan Pace scored an unas­The contest is scheduled for 3:30 sisted goal. Bill Bonde put the Irish p.m. tomorrow on Cartier Field. It up 2-0 less than two minutes later will be the next-to-last regular when he took a pass from Steve season home game for ND. Michigan 
Kelly thinks so 
Can anyone replace Crable? 
Linehan in front of the goal and shot State will end the regular season By EARL RIX would be easier for him. he's far more consistent," says Kelly. it past the Ashland goalie. when it visits on Saturday. Sports Writer Backing up Zavagnin is seniorJack "Over the last two years he's played Ashland scored two quick goals to The Irish now stand 7-5 overall for 
Shields. "He's an extremely physical extremely well at times, but he's tie the score, but a Linehan extra­the year. They hold a 5-3 mark in the 
After a losing season, the Notre player," says Kelly. "He'll see a lot of lacked that consistency." Kelly adds man goal and a Steve Pearsall fast­league and lead their division with a Dame football team has a lot to action in the fall." Backing up Larkin that sophomore Joe Bars also has break goal put the Irish ahead for 3-1 record. prove next fall. And after the loss of at the moment are junior walk-on made great strides at the outside All-American Bob Crable, the Irish position. linebacking crew in particular is no SeniorJoe Rudzinski, who started exception. last season at the outside linebacker 
Wotnen face N. Illinois
"I think everybody who is in­d spot, is sitting out spring ball be­
volved is anxious for September to "/ think everyb0 J' cause of injuries. "It's conceivable," roll around," says George Kelly, who says Kelly, "that he'll see action at has been coaching the Irish who is involved is the outside and inside positions." 
in only hotne 1natch 
linebackers for the last 13 years. "Our biggest problem," he adds, "We've· got things to prove and "is that we are perhaps (only) two ByJANE HEALEY The Irish faced Northern Illinois
anxious for Septem­
we're anxious to get at it." 
deep." Kelly explains that the Sports Writer earlier this spring, a match Notre 
Kelly says that he has been ex­linebacking corps ideally should be Dame won, 6-3. But Coach Sharon tremely pleased with the lineback­ber to roll around.n three deep because, even with in­Ifyou haven't had a chance to see Petro is quick to point out that the ers' progress this spring. "I think that juries, "you usually like two sets of the Notre Dame women's tennis team can't take its opponents for 
I 
they are well on their way to es­linebackers." team in action this year, today is granted today. tablishing themselves as a unit," he Despite this, Kelly concludes that your last chance. "We played Northern Illinois says. Tom Murphy and sophomore Chris it is a matter ofquality, not just quan­The Irish girls take on Northern Il­when we were forced onto onlyI Smith, the converted tailback. tity, that he is concerned with. "Its a linois on the Courtney Courts at 3 three courts," Petro cautions, "and t junior Rick Naylor, another Moel­matter ofdepth -not just numbers, p.m., weather permitting. If it does therefore only played each match up
Spring Football '82 ler product, is holding down the but (getting) people who we can rain, the matches will be moved to to 10 games. That isn't a good indica­I outside linebacking position. "Rick subject to the type of schedule we the indoor courts in the North 
tion of how the match will be this 

Naylor has had a fine spring in that 
will be playing." Dome ofthe ACC. time. Things could be very dif­ferent."
What about the loss ofCrable>.... Petro cite
"Crable was an outstandng foot­does one advantage
I 
has going in the

·all player who went though the Notre Dame to match. "It will be really nice to play
.arne learning process that some of 
Purkleads Alumni crushing ofDillon 
at home," she says, "especially since

these guys are going through now," we are playing a lot better tennis
says Kelly. "I really think that some now." After losing their first eight
of these people have the same de­matches this spring, the Irish have
gree ofability within them, and now BASEBALL -Gary Purk went the distance on the 
won two oftheirlast three, and carry

it is just a matter ofseeing how self­mound and chalked up his second win as Alumni I beat a 2-9 record into today's match.
motivated they are to reach the Dillon I, 9-0, last week. Gary also helped his team with The biggest disadvantage for thesame degree ofefficiency. his bat, as he tripled and then scored from third on a 

Spoils· Writer 
Irish today will be the loss of senior"Overall, we may be quicker than single by sophomore Dave Bruscino. Team captainJohn co-captain Tina Stephan. Stephanwe have been in some time. It af­Green also had a spectacular performance, doubling 

Inside Interhall began to feel pain in her right wrist

fords us the opportunity to do some twice. 
before the team's spring trip tothings you're hesitant to do if you MEN'S SOFTBALL -"Barney's Bumbling Batman" Louisiana in March. Doctors told herdon't have that quickness. It's a mat­tallied 13 runs in the first inning and went on to soundly WOMEN'S SOCCER -Mary Wiegand led Farley to a 

that she had severe tendonitis in thatter of being able to do more things thrash the "Hog Sliders" this past Sunday, 23-4. Rich 3-1 victory over Badin with two goals. Claire Yang also 
wrist. Unfortunately for the Irish, thedefensively, whether it be a form of Troy was the first to knock a home run, followed by chipped in a score as the team, as a whole, displayed injury has not improved and Stephancoverage or blitzing." four-base blasts by teammates Larry Schenden and Tim controled passing and unending endurance. 

will be unable to play the rest of theOne of the reasons for that addi­

Griffin. GOLF -This spring's golf tournament will be held 
year.

tional quickness will be sophomore To end this season's ad-lib activity, there will be a Saturday, May 1, at the Burke Memorial golfcourse. Tee 
For Stephan's fellow co-captainMike Larkin, a 6-1, 210-pound Moel­final, single elimination tournament fielding the top 30 times will start at 9 a.m. and participants will be notified 
Carol Shukis, this will be her last

ler product. "Without doubt, he is 
teams as compiled by the NVA. The tourney will begin as to their specific starting time. 
match at Notre Dame. When asked ifthe quickest linebacker we have, in tomorrow, April 28. All teams are requested to contact that will be on her mind duringterms offoot speed." the NVA office (C-2 ACC) or 239-6100, for information TENNIS -Freshman Andy Smith routed each of his today's match, Shukis replied, "I

Kelly says Larkin also can hit, on qualification. opponents on his way to claiming the championship of don't really feel nostalgic about it.
commenting that "His size belies his WOMEN'S SOFTBALL -Tricia Highland and Debbie the men's tennis tournament held this past Sunday. The I'll miss playing tennis for Notrephysicalness." Larkin will be playing 
Hensley led a well-balanced scoring attack as Lyons I scores of his matches were 8-1, 8-2, 8-1, 8-1. The final 
Dame, but what I'll really miss is my

at one ofthe inside linebacker spots, downed Breen-Phillips, 12-7. victory came at the hands ofanother strong player, Sami teammates. I've met my best friendsalong side Mark Zavagnin, who has GRAD SOFTBALL -"Philosophy" leaped out to a 7-0 Kahale. 
those

moved to the other inside spot to lead in the first inning and with solid defense went on to In the men's doubles tourney, Mark Murphy and Ter­on the courts and it's 
memories that I'll take with me."

replace Crable. defeat "St. Joe-Government," 16-3.Jay Wood had a per­ry Beale, who hail from from Keenan Hall, teamed up to After today's match, the girls mustZavagnin, the senior tri-captain fect day at bat with four hits in four trips to the plate, win the title in their division by scores of2-6, 6-2,6-2. 
battle with final exams while alsowho was second only to Crable in including a home run and two doubles. 

working out on the tennis courts intackles the last two years, should be MEN'S SOCCER -A match between Alumni and NVA 6 MILE RUN -The spring edition of the inter­preparation for the AlAW Division II anything but a question mark. An­Pangborn had an offbeat start as each team scored on­hall six-mile run is tenatively scheduled for Saturday Regional Championships, which willticipating the move, Kelly gave goals to post a tie score at one apiece. Playing with extra afternoon, May 2. Entries will be available in this week's take place over commencementZavagnin some playing time at the determination, as it was two men short, Alumni editions ofTbe Observer, but for more information con­weekend at Southern Illinois­-spot last season, so the transition 

prevailed on a corner kick by Greg Kiwus to win, 2-1. tact the NVA office (C-2 ACC) or 239-6100. 
Edwardsville University. 



