, ' ' Who 's Who -page 4 

VOL XVII, NO. 1 the inc..kpcndt:nt !->tudt:nt no::~ '>paper ~t:r\'ing notre Jamt: and ~aim mary·~ SATURDAY, AUGUST 28, 1982 
Freshmen arrive 
Admission yield is down 
By BOB VONDERHEIDE tion starts Monday in Stepan Center. of the Freshmen Orientation Com­News Editor 290 transfer and readmission stu­mittee. Chairman Tim Marten heads dents also join the Notre Dame the 210 students on the orientation 
The economic picture and federal community this year. staff who arrived Thursday and cutbacks have caused more ap­"There are some extremely Friday. plicants to reconsider Notre Dame's talented people in the freshman "There's a lot going on," said Stu­J9,200 price tag. class in a variety of areas," said dent Activities DirectorJim McDon­
Director of Admissions John Director of Admissions John nell. The orientation staff also Goldrick offered admission to 150 Goldrick. "They're a really neat published an orientation booklet, more students ( 2800 ofthe 7666 ap­group of kids. But we get excited and an activities night is se: for next plicants) than last year since the about every freshman class." week. yield of students accepting admis­Financial worries are also respon­Freshman Year ofStudies starts its sion is down. sible for the slight reduction in the academic orientation with a general 
Nonetheless, this year's 1,775 number of Notre Dame Scholars the meeting tonight in the Athletic and freshmen are expected to comprise University was able to name. This Convocation Center. the largest class in Notrt: Dame his­year 225 NO Scholars were eligible Each hall also has an orientation tory, surpassing last year's class by for merit scholarships if they staff that have planned many ac­about 20 students. demonstrated financial need. tivities for the freshmen residents. 
Freshmen begin two days of Dances, picnics, tours, and movies Annie Bodoh is in charge oftrans­
orientation today before registra-highlight the activities and services fer student orientation activities, including the transfer breakfast this morning. 
Freshman registration begins

Saint Mary'sfreshmen 
Monday in Stepan Center, where freshmen will receive their schedules and have their I.D. photos

arrive for orientation 
taken. Classes start Tuesday. Some freshmen reported yester­
By MARGARET FOSMOE and Kathleen Rice, Dean of Student day to take freshman guidance tests
Sain.tMary'sExecutive Editor Affairs. After this briefing the Direc­that aid the Freshman Year ofStudies
Orientation activities begin today tor of Financial Aid will be available 
. office in placing students in first
for 475 freshmen and 23 transfer to answer questions. 
semester courses. Today, exams for
students at Saint Mary's. An orientation mass is scheduled 
freshman course credit are
1.0. photographs for the new stu­for 5: 1 5 p.m. at Angela, followed by a scheduled.
dents will be taken from 9 a.m. to picnic on the Dining Hall Green. 
1:30 p.m. today in Angela Athletic Today's activities will conclude 
class this year are women. Two new
Facility. with President's Welcome at 8 p.m. 
women's dorms, Pasquerilla East
Tours of the campus will leave in Angela, followed by a reception at 
and West, opened last year in con­
from the LeMans Coun from 10 a.m. 9. 
nection with the Board of Trustees
to noon. The tour schedule will Orientation continues tomorrow, 
Students construct a loftoutsideSorin Hall Friday. Dean Roemer

decision to admit 500 additional
repeat tomorrow. beginning with breakfast in the 
outlines loft policy and other regulations on page 3. (photo by

w~m~~o~er the next few years.
Representatives of several South 

See ORIENTATION, page 6 Rachel Blount)Bend banks will be present in the 
LeMans Lobby for students in­·----::---====-======:::::-============ 
in opening ckecking NotreDame.SPB

terested ac­counts. Lunch will be served for day students and their parents in the 

Burkeprotnises to involvefreshtnen 
Saint Mary's Clubhouse from 11:30 
a.m. to 1 p.m. Lunch for on-campus Dean Emil Hofman's. This goal in­is designed to familiarize students "Academics are covered by testing 
students and their parents will be By KELLI FLINT volves four areas: residentiality, with these four aspects of college Saturday. The mass begins the extra ac­
from 11:45 a.m. to 1:45 p.m. in the Executive News Editor academics, curricular life. religious aspect, and the extra cur­dining hall. tivities, and religious activity. "Hall orientation acquaints fresh­ricular activities are introduced in a 
Information concerning the If Student Body President Uoyd Freshman Orientation Weekend men with residentiality," Burke said. program after tM Mass Sunday." Ireland and Rome foreign study Burke has anything to say, this year's programs will be presented at 2 and freshman class will never become 
Transfer student orientation 3 p.m., respectively, in the Little bored. 
parallels the freshman program. 

Theatre ofMoreau. Burke hopes that freshmen offer 
~PB Murphy to stress 
Burke notes that the imponance of 
Mary Ann Rowan, Director of Ad­to work in student government be­

transfer orientation is increasing. missions, and William Hickey, Vice cause he will have something for 
President of the College, will speak them to do. 

visibility, socialjustice 
"There is a greater number of
at the Student/Parent Academic "Freshmen shouldn't hesitate to get involved," Burke said. "They By MARGARET FOSMOE its real work. She did say that social transfer students because of the
Briefing at 3 p.m. in O'Laughlin 
Auditorium. Immediately following don't have to jump right in, but if SaintMary's Executive Editor justice will be a major pan ofher ad­Pasquerillas," he said. "I think the ministration. "We will be encourag­amount is at its peak now."
that presentation will be a Student they want to...go ahead." 
students to socially

Affairs briefing with speaker Tom Burke says his goal for the fresh­Student government visibility and ing become 
aware, both on and off campus ...

Reid, Director of Campus Ministry, man class parallels Freshman Year communication are the main goals Burke will also encourage stu­of 1982-83 Saint Mary's Student and at such places as Logon Center 
dents to become more involved 
Body President Kathleen Murphy. and in South Bend itself," said politically. "I hope to supply in­Murphy feels that familiarity of Murphy. She hopes to unite the So­formation on how to vote in the 
student government leaders by the cial Justice, Christian Life, and general election this November," he student body is the key to success in Development Committees to co­
said.

her administration. sponsor an event. Murphy, assisted by Elaine Hoc­Murphy also feels that the new 
"Students frequentlytor, Vice President ofStudent Affairs, parietals proposal and development 
protest...then don't vote because and Beth Tighe, Vice President of ofthe former library into the Hagger 

they say it's too much trouble. We Academic Affairs, headed a Board of Student Center will be major issues 
want to enable students to make Governance orientation at Saint within student government this 
their position on an issue count Mary's this week. year. 
through the ballot." According to Murphy, the 

meetings went "very, very well ... These issues are all in the future, 
Student Government will try and 
we got a lot accomplished and however, and the majority of stu­sponsor two student exchange everyone is very enthusiastic." dent government planning so far has programs this year. Burke describes Murphy is encouraged by many dealt with the scheduling of social last year's program with the Univer­changes and additions during the activities. Student Government­sity of Toronto as "an amazing summer at Saint Mary's, including related activities this week include success." 
new managers at the bookstore and dedication of the Cushwa-Leighton the dining hall, the completion of Library on Friday, and a three-band "One ofthe trips will definitely be the Cushwa-Leighton Library, and "Sound Showcase" presentation on to Toronto," Burke said, adding that the new phone system. the Nonh Quad next Saturday. he hopes the other will be south. 
Murphy feels communication and A complete listing of all student Burke advises freshmen to "get in­familiarity must be established government activities can be found volved. If you don't do it, it'll be before student government begins in the student handbook. gone before you know it." 





r 
' 

News Brief§ 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
Notre Dame studentsface a 13.4 percent increase in undergraduate tuition, room, board and laundry fees, totalling an average of 58,015 in the academic year 1982-83. Total costs for Notre Dame come to $9,200 when books, transportation, and personal ex­penses are included. University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh' noted in a letter to parents that Notre Dame's tuition ranks 29th in a survey of 35 private universities and colleges. Room and board fees are the lowest of any school surveyed. -The Observer 
Charles Flaim, a former assistant manager of the North Dining Hall between 1958 and 1962, has been named manager ofthe South Dining Hall. He has served as food director at Saint Mary's Col­lege the last eight years. Flaim has also served as food service director at Georgetown University, Rider College ofNewJersey, Trenton State College, Marymount College ofNew York, and Woodstock College in · Maryland. Flaim has also been the assistant food manager at the South Bend Country Club. -The Observer 
Douglas Kmiec, associate law professor, has been ap­pointed special assistant to the secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development by the President's Commission on White House Fellowships. Kmiec's responsibilities will include work on President Reagan's enterprise zone and new federalism proposals as well as an examination ofthe federal role in housing policy. Kmiec, , who has taught at Notre Dame Law School for two years, has written extensively on legislation affecting property and land use. -The Ob­seroer 
Michael J. Joyce became president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association lastJuly, succeeding Michael Read, a lawyer from New Orleans. Joyce, a certified public accoutant from Pittsburgh, is the former president of the Notre Dame Club of Pittsburgh and headed the local alumni phase ofthe most recent Campaign for Notre Dame furidraising effort. Joyce graduated from Notre Dame in I964. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Theatre 
auditions for the first two productions ofits I982-83 season will be at 7 p.m. Wednesday in O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's and at 7 
p.m. Thursday in Washington Hall at Notre Dame. "The Taming ofThe Shrew," a comedy by William Shakespeare, will open in October. "The Maids," a drama byJean Genet, will open in November. Auditions are open and no previous experience is necessary. -The Observer 
James R. Pollicita, research assistant in continuing education and public service at the University of Illinois, has been appointed director ofAlumni Continuing Education for Notre Dame. The appointment is effective Oct. I. Pollicita will be responsible for implementing and directing a five-year continuing eduation plan for Notre Dame graduates and their families, featuring on-and off-campus seminars and utilizing the existing Alumni Book Club, travel tour program, Alumni College and Alumni Family Hall. -The Observer 
Two gerontological Specialistsat Notre Dame outlined their program in training and services for the frail, rural and minority elderly during a conference entitled "Aging Together in Alaska" Aug. I6-20 in Fairbanks, Alaska. Dr. John Santos, psychology professor and director of Gerontological Education, Research and Services, and Mary Alice Santos, GERAS program manager, described GERAS and how it has evolved during the last I5 years.-The Ob­seroer 
The Rockne Memorial will be open until s p.m. today. The building will open tomorrow at I0 a.m. and the pool will open at I p.m. Both close at 5 p.m. The building will be open from 8 
a.m. to Il p.m. Monday, and the pool will be open from noon until 6 
p.m. and 8 p.m. to I1 p.m. Regular hours will be announed soon. ­
The Observer 
Students having problems with their room telephones can call the Telephone Repair Service at 9-l-800-382­2200,The number is new for this year. -The Observer 


It's been a nippy start of the school year but the 
temperature will be a little warmer tomorrow, reaching the mid 70~. 
Saturday, August 28, 1982 -page 2 



Balancing your act 

I'm sure that you've heard it a million times already, but let me take this opportunity on behalf ofthe entire Observer staffto congratulate you on your acceptances to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
Your first few days here have probably been hectic but exciting as you adjust to strange surroundings, meet new friends and say good-bye to your family. Ofcourse, there will be all the parties, dances, and picnics to at­tend and plenty of sporting activities going on all over campus. Amidst such fanciful happenings, one might tend to overlook the major reason why we're all here, which, obviously or not, is to learn. As you merrily make the rounds ofthe multitude ofevents this weekend, per­"haps somewhere in the deep recesses of your mind lurks that nasty homonculus called Reality which acts up every cince in a while, perhaps in between dances at the ACC, shouting such frightening curses as "Eat, drink, and be merry today, freshmen, for tomorrow..." Well, I'm sure you've already filled in the blank with your own ominous conclusion. 
But you can confidently tell that little man in your mind to keep quiet, because the true reality is that the transition to college life is really not that difficult, espe­cially at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Both colleges 
boast many professors and of a liberal arts major), the counselors who are truly ability to communicate will 
concerned about you as an stay with you throughout individual. You'll find that your life, providing you with many professors will make open doors in the business themselves available after and social worlds. class or by appointment to This is certainly not an at­discuss any problems you tempt to disparage the may have, and the coun­academic aspect ofyour col­selors always have an open lege career. You must heed ear and some worthy advice your classroom respon­in times oftrouble. sibilites or else you will be 
We at The Observer will • too busy packing your bags also do all that we can to for home to enjoy the the make your transition a little many other aspects of col­bit smoother. Today's edi­lege life. But sometimes you tion is dedicated to you and may find that the most is filled with all kinds of in­rewarding and fulfilling formation regarding things are those that don't relevant .people and places cost you a cent, whether it 
you should be familiar with. Every day The Observer will present the news and sports you need to know in order to grasp exactly what Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are all about. Turning to The Observer each day at lunchtime, a campus tradition, will keep you informed and entertained and will present all that the schools have to offer in order to make your four years here fun and rewarding. 
As a freshman, you will be immediately subjected to a great amount of pressure, not only academically but even socially. Life away from home is very different, but coping with the many changes can be made easier just by keeping your cool and maintaining an even keel in the various aspects ofyour life. Many students, and cer­tainly not just freshmen, cheat themselves while at col­lege by indulging too much in one thing, while denying themselves involvement in other potentially rewarding areas. For some people, partying is what college life is all about. These students live only for the weekends, which for them usually starts Wednesday after classes. Others immerse themselves in their books in that elusive quest for a perfect 4.0 GPA. These students live for the weekends only because it offers them two class­free days in which to get more studying done. Still others become so involved with various organizations that their grades suffer and their social life becomes vir­tually nonexistent. 
If you are really concerned about getting the most out ofyour college experience, an equitable combina­tion of the these three activities is usually the best course to follow. You can learn a great deal outside the classroom by interacting with other people and getting involved with organizations and social happenings. By interacting with others, we all learn the very valuable gift of communication, something which no textbook , can teach. Unlike some calculus function which you learn today and forget tomorrow (obviously the words 

be playing with the rugby club or writing profound columns for the school newspaper. 
Icertainly hope that you keep some ofthese thoughts in mind as you try to find your own little niche in this new environment. Work hard, play hard, and get in­volved, and your four years at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's should prove very rewarding. 
And once again, congratulations to the class of I986. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views of the author, and do not necessarily represent the views ofThe Observeror its editorial board. 

:***tt:!.*:~*11r***********************"*:~ 
: Position open for i· 
* * 
:ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE CLERK a * -* 
: at : 
* *
* * 

: Ibe Obsenrer · : 
* *
* * 
* •* 
* *
* :*
: ·applications will be accepted : from Mon Aug 30-Fri Sep. 3 : 
* * 
: at 3rd floor LaFortune : 
* *
* *
* * 
: $$PAID,;POSITION $$ : * ~ * 
* *
:See: Tony Aiello~ Business MGR . !
* ~ * 
~**********************************1' 

Design Editor................. Suzanne La Croix Design Assistant......................... Tim Neely Layout Staff........................ Too Numerous To Mention Typesetters ............................. Bruce & Tom News Editor................................. Flint & Co. Copy Editor..................... VerceUolti & Co. Features Layout........................ Tari B10wn Editorials Layout....................... Tim Neely Sports Copy Editor ...... Needles, Dziedzic Ad Design ............................... Mary Torchia Maura Murphy, Tari Brown john Higgins, Ryan Ver Berkmoes Greg Swiercz, Others Photographer......................... Blount & Co. Guesl Appeanmce. ...... The Gang of Four The Mormon Tabernacle Choir The Unmarried and tbe Unengaged The Uninterested 
N.Y. Chic "The entire idea is utter(y absurd . 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays except dunng exam and vacatiOn penods The Observer 1s published by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Marys Col lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($1 5 per semester) by wntmg The Observer P 0 Box 0 Noire Dame lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
·iUfW':::W 


Du Lac outlines policies 
By BOB VONDERHEIDE 
News Editor 
Du Lac, Notre Dame's guide to student life, may be 79 pages long but Dean of Students james Roemer can reduce the University discipli­nary rules to nine policies. 
And the alcohol policy is the one Roemer says freshmen should un­derstand best. 
"Alcohol is to be consumed with­in the laws of the state of Indiana in moderation," Roemer said yester­day. Students under 21 years of age may drink only in their rooms or designated party rooms. Comsump­tion of alcohol anywhere else on campus, including the football stadium, means a n 00 fine regard· less ofthe offender's age. 
Students over 21 may also drink in the new Alumni-Senior Club. Kegs on campus result in a S100 fine. 
"Alcohol abuse is the biggest, single problem freshmen run into," Roemer said. "Freshmen should be aware that the University feels very strongly about the moderate use of alcohol" 

The eight other major rules in du Lac are: 
•Drugs. 
Using or providing drugs, including marijuana, is strictly prohibited and may result in expul­sion from the University. 

•Sexuality. 
The University believes that sexual union should occur only in marriage. 

•Parietals. 
Visiting hours for guests ofthe opposite sex end in residence halls at 2 a.m. Saturday and Sunday mornings and midnight on other nights. 

•The 
other five rules prohibit academic dishonesty, theft, injuries to persons or property, defamation of character, and other infringe­ments on the rights ofstudents. 


"There are a lot of people who 

The Observer Saturday, August 28, 1982 -page 3 

don't worry about these rules and · regulations," Roemer said. "Their way of acting does not involve a violation." 
Another important du Lac regula­tion is the restriction on elevated beds. Elevated beds must have writ­ten approval from the office of Stu­dent Residences, and students must also install a smoke detector. The surface of the top mattress may not be higher than seven feet and may not be closer than three feet to the ceiling. 
This year's edition of du Lac will also be used next year since printing costs have made annual publication too costly, according to Vice Presi­dent of Student Affairs Father john Van Wolvlear. The 1982-84 du Lac (French for "of the lake") is dis­tributed to freshmen by the hall staffs. 
Campus life to get boost 
By KELll FLINT 
Executive News Editor 
Dave Drouillard says he has the third toughest job at Notre Dame. 
Drouillard ranks Coach Gerry Faust's job as the toughest, then Father Theodore Hesburgh's. But as the Student Union's social commis­sioner, Drouillard is responsible for social life on campus. 
"Social life here has always been questioned," he said. "Students think there isn't a lot to do compared with state universities." 
Drouillard attributes the prob),em to lack of student awareness about events. "Students look at posters, but it doesn't register in their minds." 
More active publicity will be implemented during the campus­wide Welcome Week, Consequent­ly, Drouillard predicts that activities 

Van Lines changes routes 
ByJOHN M. HIGGINS 
News Staff 
No changes are expected in the operation of the shuttle bus be­tween Saint Mary's and Notre Dame this year, adminstrators at both col­leges said. The weekend off-campus bus, Van lines, however, is undergo­ing significant schedule changes. 
The shuttle is operated by Transpo, the South Bend metropolitan transit agency, under contract to both colleges. The shuttle will continue to run at ap­proximately 30 minute intervals un­til 2 a.m. every day between various points on the two campuses. There is no charge for service before 4 p.m. and a 15-cent fare afterward. 
"Originally the shuttle ran only Monday through Friday during the day," said Jim McDonnell, Notre Dame director of student activities. "The two colleges felt obligated to provide transportation service to students attending classes at dif­ferent campuses." Gradually, service was expanded into the evening and 
on  weekends  and  fares  were  in­ 
stituted.  
McDonnell  estimated  costs  of  

shuttle service at more than SIOO,OOO. "The service is con­tracted jointly between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's and split down the middle after evening and weekend fares are subtracted." 
McDonnell also said Van Lines will operate only between Notre 
See SHUTI'I.E, page 6 

during the week will go over well. "When students can hear the bands outside, they will go outside and see what's going on." 
• Several individual groups offer so­cial outlets for students. However, they are usually for students with similar ethnic or regional back­grounds. Drouillard considers his commission an "umbrella figure." "There will always be individual factions," he said. "There is nothing you can do about it. We won't center aro~nd any certain group." 
Drouillard admits it is nice for stu­dents to have a place to go where they can be with people who share something in common. He expects students in these groups to par­ticpate in Student Union's scheduled activities as well. "Students won't forget the Student Union just be­cause they're a member ofthe Black Cultural Arts Council or M.E.Ch.A.( Mexican American Club)." 
While fraternities and sororities may provide a social outlet on other campuses, Drouillard thinks that at Notre Dame students place em­phasis on dorms for social activity. 
"It's a bigger deal here to get in­volved with dorms," he said. "At other universities, fraternities take social life away form campus." 
Drouillard says his major goal for the year will be to integrate dorms. "Although there are rivalries, I think the dorms respect each other and maintain the Notre Dame tradition." He hopes to provide more activities that several dorms can sponsor to­gether. 
One social activity that may suffer this year will be concerts. Drouillard notes that concerts at Notre Dame have dwindled during the past four 
See UNION, page 6 

OAK BOOM OAFE 
Sou'h Dining Ball 
Open Rightly (exc,pt_Sundays) llllon·Thurs 9:00 pm ·Midnightl'ri-Sat 9:00 pm · 2:00 am 
---------FREE --------­
Ill~ 1-luclcll~ Sc1lSI lllllJt:l SII2VI l'UlJt 
For-Breakfast lunch, DinnerS late Night Food 
Huddleburgers--"South Bend's Finest" Fries Tacos SBurritos Ice-Cream: Sundaes,Shakes SCones 
fill Ulll 

Sandwiches SGroceries All kinds of munchies Watch for our daily Sweekly specials 
ON CAMPUS MAIN FLOOR LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
~-­
·-~~ 
.2{ 
r' 
. t 
~i 
The Observer 
WELCOME FR-ESHMEN! LET US SHOW YOU THE WORLD! 
e Computerized Airline Reservations e Amtrack Tickets e United Limo Tickets to Chicago 
e .Tours and Cruises 
• No Charge for Our Services e ffiajor Credit Cards Accepted 
Badin Hall 

~source•Travel  239-7080 New Library Office  
First Source Center  239-6682  
South Bend, IN  LeMans Hall  
236-2656  284-5606  
Emil T. Hofman 


Saturday, August 28, 1982 page 4 
Emil'soffice 
Freshman Year leadership 

FRESHMAN DEAN 

Dr. Emil T. Hofman has been dean of the Freshman Year of Studies since 1971. He oversees all activit!es 

Beforeyou buy,come see over 600ca-tpet temnants atthe AREA'S LOWEST PRICES 
Sting this ad into out store and receive an extra 5 pet cent oH out already LOW, LOW prices on remnants. 
Offer expires September 11, 1982 


BY THE TRACKS 
402 South Ironwood 
MISHAWAKA -259-5638 OP£1 lltn4ay & Thurtdly & F..W., 'till:30 P.l. Tlltldly & WldnnUy 'til 6 P.M. 
S.tunlay 'til 5:30 P.M. 
CLOSED SUNDAYS 
Just oH Unclonway at ltonwood 
~­

of Freshman Year including the ' guidance program and the Freshman Learning Resource Center. Dean Hofman also teaches a general chemistry course taken by nearly 
two-thirds ofthe freshman class. 
ASSOCIATE DEAN 

Dr. Peter Grande is the associate 
dean for Freshman Year. He has 
many years experience in student 
personnel work, 27 at Notre Dame, 
and is a recognized authority in tes­
ting and guidance. Grande, from 
Shennandoh, Pennsylvania, received 
his M.A. and Ph.D. from Notre Dame 
in educational psychology and 
guidance. 
ASSISTANT DEAN As assistant dean of Freshman Year, Angie Chamblee has the spe­
cial responsiblities of attending the needs of physically handicapped freshmen, providing liaison with the residence halls and helping minority students. A native of Tuskegee, Alabama, Chamblee received a mas· 
.ters degree in educational psycholo· gy from Notre Dame. 
:fRESHMAN lEARNING RESOURCE CENTER The Freshman Learning Resource 
·Center provides many services for academic adjustment during the freshman year. Dr. Sandra Har· matiuk, director of the center, coor­dinates a tutoring program, study skills workshops, old-test files, and a career guidance program. A native ofUtica, New York, Harmatiuk holds an English doctorate degree from Notre Dame. 
Theofficialsto know at Saint Mary's College 
STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT 
Junior Kathleen Murphy, a Social 
Work major from Oyster Bay, N.Y., is 
the 1982-83 Saint. Mary's Student 
Body President. In addition to her 
official capacity as chairman of the 
Board of Governance, Murphy sees 
her job as one ofa delegator and ad­
visor. "I am here to make sure that 
the work gets done," Murphy said. 
Her goal this year is to encourage all 
students to get more involved in stu· 
dent government. Murphy stresses 
that she wants the student body to 
feel comfortable and knowledgeable 
about their student government. All 
student government meetings are 
open to the public. 
DIRECTOR OF STUDENT 
ACTMTffiS 

Mary Anne O'Donnell, director of 
student activities, works closely 
with both committees and in­
dividuals in planning activities at 
Saint Mary's. The oOffice of Student 
Activities, headed by O'Donnell, is 
designed to provide educational as 
well as social activities. O'Donnell 
stresses the importance of student 
input in her department. O'Donnell 
acts as advisor to many campus 
clubs and organizations, as well as 
being in charge of orientation ac­
tivities. She sees her job as "being an 
educator...to help students learn 
certain skills." O'Donnell urges all 
students to become involved in 
present campus activities, and to 
come to her with ideas for the 
future. 
FRESHMAN ACADEMIC COUN­
SElOR 

Susan Vanek, freshman academic 
counselor, plays a vital role in the 
academic life of all incoming fresh­
man. The Freshman Office, headed 
by Vanek, is the headquarters for all 
matters relating to freshmen. During 
orientation and the the first few 
weeks of college, Vanek is respon­
sible for answering any questions 
concerning pre-registration, course 
changes, and add/drops, in addition 
to general academic counselling. 
Once the year is underway, accord· 
ing to Vanek, her department is 
primarily responsible for maintain·.. 
ing all academic records pertaining 
to freshmen as well as the faculty 
academic policy. The Freshman 
Office also refers students to other 
departments, such as the Counsell­
ing and Career Development Cen· · ter. 

COllEGE PRESIDENT 

Saint Mary's College President John M.. Duggan acts as chief ad· ministrator and representative for the College. His major duties, according to Duggan, include providing academic leadership an(f general direction of college affairs. "We try, through this office, to make sure the mission ofthe college is ad· hered to...That is, to be the very best Catholic women's liberal arts col­lege possible," Duggan said. He stressed the importance of "maintaining the sense of com­munity that thrives on this campus." Duggan's position as president fre­quently takes him away on fundrais­ing missions. He pointed out that the general decline in outside sources of financial aid make such projects as the new Cushwa-Leighton Library increasingly difficult to finance. 
While Duggan is pleased with the­working relationship between Saint Mary's and Notre Dame, he stresses the importance of the College maintaining an identity as its own in­dividual women's college. 
DEAN OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 
Kathleen M. Rice, dean of student 
affairs, is the chief student affairs of· 
fleer and one offive senior officers at 
the College. Her primary duties in· 
elude the supervision of seven 
departments, including such areas as 
athletics and recreation, counselling 
and career development, financial 
aid, student activities and campus 
ministry. Rice is involved in commit· 
tee and council work within all 
these departments. She is also 
responsible for administering the 
budget within her division. In addi­
tion, Rice is a member of the Saint 
Mary's Psychology department and 
is in the classroom one semester 
each year. 
-
-· 


----~-------.------· ~----------~-~...,.... 
~---------~----~-. 
..,,:: 
--~ 
Saturday, August 28, 1982-page 5
The Observer t~~­
~ ­
\ 
Who's Who in Notre Dame Administration 

PRESIDENT 

For some people, the name Theodore Hesburgh means Notre Dame. That's because for the past 30 years, Hesburgh's name has ap­peared on the desk ofthe University president. Hesburgh planned to resign as president last May, but at the request ofthe Board ofTrustees, he decided to remain for five more years. Hesburgh directs all campus affairs, answering to the authority of the Board of Trustees. He oversees the administrative staff with his five­vice presidents, and he also acts as the liaison for the Alumni Board and the University. Hesburgh travels fre­quently -sometimes for fundrais­ing, ·other times for meetings of his several political, corporate, theological, and academic commit· tees. 
PROVOST 

Provost Timothy O'Meara is the second highest administrator at Notre Dame and oversees academic and faculty matters. He is the direct superior of the vice presidents of Student Affairs and Advanced Studies. One of the chief respon­sibilities of the provost is to review faculty tenure and promotion deci­sions. O'Meara was named provost in 1978. Before then he had been 
Faculty artists presentworks to freshmen 
By ED KONRADY 
News Staff 
The annual faculty art show starts today at the O'Shaughnessy Galleries in the Snite Museum ofArt. 
The show is primarily directed at freshman art majors, who will have a chance to see the recent WO[~S of their future professors. The.exbibit will also be open to the public Sep­tember 5 until October 10. 
The works oftw t elve Notre Dame professors will be featured in this year's show. 
"The show has an equilibrium to it," said Professor Don Yogi, who has an exhibit in the show. "It has abstract things in the front and figurative things in the back. 
"Most faculties seem to have a single direction which is usually figurative," said Vogl. "We (at Notre Dame) have an advantage in that stu­dents don't have to decide what style a school has and then p k, they can pick a school and work in their own style." _ 
The twelve instru.:tors exhbiting their work in tht' ,how e: Art Department Chairn,.m Fred< ·1ck Be­ckman, Tom Fern, Doug i(.insey, Dick Steven, Robert Leader, Father James Flanigan, William Kremer, Richard Gray, Moira Geoffrion, George Tisten, Rob Mackie, and Don Vogl 
chairman of the Mathematics Department, where he taught fresh­men calculus. In recent months, O'Meara has been writing the final report on Priorities and Commit­mentsfor Excellence (PACE), an ex· amination of the Urtiversity's progress during the 1970's and its goals for the 1980's. 
EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT 
Father Edmund P. Joyce is Notre Dame's money man. Joyce is the Ex­ecutive Vice President ofthe Univer­sity, but considers his most important role that ofchieffinancial officer. "The only private schools that will survive will be those able to raise enough money," says Joyce, who earned a bachelor's degree in· accounting from Notre Dame in 1937. Joyce's other duties include faculty board chairman, athletic director, and building committee chairman. Subordinate only to the University president and the provost,Joyce was named Executive Vice President in 1952, simul­taneous to the start of Hesburgh's presidency. 
STUDENT AFFAIRS 

Father John Van Wolvlear, vice 
president for student affairs, is 
respo1_1sible for every area ofcampus 
life except academics and finances. 
The office ofStudent Affairs includes 
the dean of students, dean of place­
ment, minority students directors, 
housing, student actiVities, Psycho­
logical Services, the health center, 
campus ministry, foreign student ad­
visers, and the hall rectors and staffs. 
Wolvlear says "student organiza­
tions have a good bit of influence. 
We try to answer the needs of the 
students and their reasonable re­
quests." 
records how this money is spent andDEAN OF STUDENTS invested. His areas of responsbilityDean ofStudentsJames A. Roemer include the controllers office, theimplements and enforces University 
financial aid office, the investmentrules and regulations in a way, he office, and the University insurance 
says, "that student rights are 
office. "The lion's share of therecognized and respected in due 
money comes from student tuition process manner." Consequence: 
and fees," Mason says. The otherDean Roemer is often seen as the sources ofrevenue include sales.and
"High Sheriff," and in fact, he is in services of auxillary enterprises, en­charge of student discipline, the 
dowment income, and various gifts
judicial system, and security. But and grants.
Roemer also directs the Alumni­Senior Club, the duLac Guide to Stu­
STUDENT ACTMTffiS

dent Life, the use of University Director of Student Activities Jimgrounds and lakes, the Traffic Ap­McDonnell is the administrativepeals Board, and the Lost and Found. Roemer also works closely with Psy­
chological Services to implement withdrawals for psychological reasons, and to offer a professional 
Wygant Floral CO.Inc. 
alcohol treatment program to any student whose disciplinary infrac­tion was alcohol-related. 
327lincolnway 
232-3354
BUSINESS AFFAIRS 

Monetary support of the major goals of the University is the job of 
..CCJQowell<J fp~ oQQ occogLong '' 
Vice President for Business Affairs Thomas Mason. Notre Dame's cur­rent total revenue is more than $96 
Come in and browse
million, and Mason oversees and 
******~******'****·****We Welcome All Students***Back!*******1._
~ 

! Especially the 'The Knights ofthe Castle' • iC -Men's HairStyling-~
. 
~­

~ ._~.~.r_.---.....~ For the total Look on a styled .11t£~eeJtS •• 
~ _ -~-yc. ..4 r...'!,.-Hair Cut, Shampoo-, 
~ 1 ~ f/e
., .. 

Blow Drj, Condition ~ 
• Regular $15.00 ~ 
272 0312

~ Now 8.50with coupon -~ 
~ 54533 Terrace Lane ~ Hrs. Tue, Wed, Sat 8:30-5:30 Across from Martin's (St. Rd. 23) ~ ~ Thur,Fri8:3o-s:3o Weareonlyminutesfromcampus ~
iC . ~
Closed Mon -­
~ *********** COUPON *************""~ 
resource for student activities and organizations. McDonnell serves as an administrator and adviser for the approximately I 70 clubs and or­ganizations.at Notre Dame. McDon­nell is especially concerned about the funding of more than 50 clubs that do not receive money from other sources. He is chairman of a student activity fee subcommittee that must annually allocate 20 per­cent of the total student activity fee to these clubs. McDonnell's sub­committee gives highest priority to those funding requests of volunteer service organizations. 
Sale valid on as many items as you like, one transaction only. Coupon must be presented. Not valid on sale merchandise. 
We specialize in quality merchandise at low, direct-import prices: 
• 
Wicker Chairs, Cushions, & Tables 

• 
Rattan & Brass Storage Trunks 

• 
Bamboo Window Shades/Room Screens 

• 
Rattan Desk & Swag Lamps, fully wired 

• 
Silk & Dried Flowers 

• 
Handwoven Floor Mats/Wall Shelves 

• 
Cane Hampers/Wastebaskets/Pianters 

• 
Largest Selection of Baskets 

• 
Scented Candles/Incense 

• 
Glassware/Mugs/Kitchenware 

• 
Potpourri/Oils/Soaps 


~
•· 
The Observer Saturday, August 28, 1982 -page 6 
.... Shuttle· 
continuedfrom page3 
Dame, University Park and Town· and Country Malls in Mishawaka. Service to Scottsdale Mall in South Bend and The 100 Center in Misha­waka has been discontinued. He ex­plained that instead of increasing use of the bus line, service to those · areas actually decreased ridership because of the increased length of the trip. 
"University Park and Town and Country are definitely the most popular areas," McDonnell said. "We felt that the movie theaters at the other two locations would at­tract more people but it didn't work." 
Van Lines evolved from the Quikee, a student-run weekend bus service to Michigan when the legal drinking age there was only 18 several years ago. When the Michi­gan drinking was raised to 21 in 1979 the service was discontinued. The idea was revived by Vice Presi­dent for Student Affairs Father John 
... Union 

continuedfrom page 3 
years. "There were thi-ee cancella­tions last year," he said. "I can't un­derstand why, since they're selling in Chicago and other nearby cities. 
"It's not just Notre Dame stu­dents. People from all over used to come here ifthey liked a band. Now, they aren't buying tickets." 
Welcome week highlights include the film "The}erk" Thursday, Sept. 2 at 10:30 p.m. in Stepan Center, and a concert featuring "The Toons" Friday night on the South Quad at 7 p.m. 
Van Wolvlear and Van Lines was. created. Students are able to take Van lines from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's to the two malls on Friday and Saturday evenings for a 50-cent round-t;rip fare. The University contracts a private bus company to operate the service. Service is not offered on the days of home football games. McDonnell said that funds for Van Lines come from three sources: ac­tivity fees, University budget allot-. ments and fares collected. He 
estimated the costs to be $7000 or 
$8000. He added that costs should decrease this year as a result of the shortened length ofthe route. 
._..Orientation 
; continuedfrom page 1 
dining hall from 8 to 9:15 a.m. A con­tinental breakfast for presidential scholars will be held in Stapleton Lounge from 9:30 to 10 a.m. 
Information concerning the An· gers, Innsbruck, and Mexico Notre 
·Dame foreign study programs, open to S'lint Mary's students, will be available in Moreau from 9 to 10 a.m. 
A mass will be held at 10 a.m. in the Church ofLoretto. Specific registration information 
. will be presented at the Freshman Pre-Registration Briefing from 10:15 to 11:30 a.m. tomorrow in O'Laughlin. A separate Transfer Stu­dent Briefing will be held at the same time in the Little Theatre. After · 4:45 to 6 p.m., followed by a mass in the briefings, all freshmen will com-Holy Cross Hall. plete surveys to provide a profile of Orientation weekend will close the class. with planned social activities for 
both transfer and freshmen students. 
Transfer-students and their Both SMC and NO transfer students parents are invited to a luncheon at are invited to T·shirt party (wearing the Clubhouse from 1f:30 to 1 p.m. T -shirts from their former college) Brunch will be served for all other at the Clubhouse from 8 to 10 p.m. freshmen from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 
p.m. in the dining hall. A dance sponsored by the Notre Dame Student Government will be 
At 3 p.m. transfer students will held at the ACC at 9 p.m. meet in LeMans lobby for a tour of the Notre Dame campus. Registration for all students will 
Foreign students should attend an be held Monday from 8:30 to 4:30 orientation tomorrow at 4 p.m. in p.m. in the lower level of Lemans. Stapleton Lounge. Freshman schedule <;hanges will be 
Sunday dinner will be served form also be made on Monday. 


Call Godfather's Pizza•.• we deliver on campus...You getthebestpizza In town, and FREE Coke... 32 oz. with a medium and 64 oz. with a large... 
The Observer Saturday, August 28, _19~2 -page 7 
Nine members of Notre Dame community die 
The editor of Notre Dame Magazine and four present and for· mer faculty members died during the summer. The five men devoted a total of 132 years of service to the University. 
Ronald R. Parent, editor of the alumni publication; Peter T. Brady, a professor ofaccountancy; Fr. Francis 
P. Cavanaugh, former dean of the College ofArts and Letters; Fr. James L Shilts, an assistant professor of physics and rector of Carroll Hall; and Bernard). Ward, formerly ofthe Notre Dame Law School all p:ll'sed away recently. 
Parent, 45, died of leukemia last Saturday at Billings Hospital in Chicago. 
A native of Maine, Parent joined the Notre Dame publications staff in 1970, and twice directed the Uni· versity's magazine to a first place award among all alumni publica­tions in the nation. The magazine never failed to be included in the top ten during Pare.u's tenure. 
He was a former trustee of the· Council for the Advancement and Support of Education (CASE), a fre­quent participant in its conferences and contributor to its publications. · 
CASE honored Parent at their na­tional meeting in Toronto last month whenNotre DameMagazine received the R t obert Sibley A ward for best 1982 alumni magazine, as 
· well as 10 other awards t . 
He attended the University of Maine, where he received a jour­nalism degree in 1966. While at Notre Dame, Parent received an 
M.A. in communication arts in 197 4. 
Memorial services were held Thursday at Sunnyside Presbyterian Church in South Bend and yesterday at Sacred Heart Church. '· 
Brady, an accountancy professor for 30 years, died in mid-June after a brief illness. 
A former member of the faculty senate and moderator of Alpha Beta Psi, honor fraternity for accoun­tancy majors, Brady had won "teacher of the year" awards from students in the College of Business Administration. 
He had also been cited for in­augurating new courses in his department, including the current class in contemporary issues. 
Brady received a bachelor of science in commerce at Notre Dame in 1949, and a C.P.A. certificate and 
M.B.A. at New York University. He served as an auditor of the Notre Dame Credit Union for several years. 
Cavanaugh, 82, former Arts and Letters dean, died in early June after a lengthy illness. 


RonaldR. Parent Peter T. Brady jamesL. Shilts Bernard]. Ward 

Francis P. Cavanaugh 'Paul Bertolini AlitaAnne Buhman Gina Crinella Kathie~ Roche 
A professsor emeritus of sociol­ogy, he was a brother of the late Father John ). Cavanaugh, former president of the-University, who died in December, 1979. 
A native of Oswosso,. Mich., Francis Cavanaugh was born in April, 1900, and entered the Con-' gregation of Holy Cross in 1919. 
He received a bachelor of arts at Notre Dame in 1923 and was or­dained in 1927. 
An authority on family life and im­migration, Cavanaugh travelled throughout the country to give talks at sociology conferences and meetings. He is the author of Im­migration at Work Today andNotes on the Family. 
Shilts, 56, a member ofthe Univer­sity faculty since 1961, died earlier this month after a briefillness. 
An assistant professor of physics and recto!' of Carroll Hall, Shilts specialized in astronomy and was a member of the American Astronomical Society. he received undergraduate and graduate degrees in physics at Notre Dame in 1949 and 1961. 
In 1970, he was named assistant vice president for student affairs and represented the administration on the Student Life Council. 
Shilts entered the Holy Cross Seminary in 19'il3, and St. Joseph Novitiate in 1944. He al$0 .attended 

all you want. Without giving "till it hurts. 

South Bend, 
272-54"113 

Holy Cross College in Washington 
D.C., and was ordained at Notre 
Dame in 1953. 
Ward, a former Notre Dame Law School professor and an authority on civil procedure and the federal courts, died in Austin, Texas in early May. 
At the time of death, Ward, 56, was a member of the University of Texas law faculty. 
Ward taught at Notre Dame Law School from 1954 to 1968. He was the co-author ofAppeals to Court of Appeals, published in 1969. 
Three Lyons residents died from 
injuires sustained in a one-car acci­
dent near Barstow, Calif, last May as 
they drove home for summer vaca­
tion. 
Another student died ofa massive 
heart attack at his home last May, 
Interested ~ 
. b 
tn 
v/ 

·~ 
v· 239-5303 

· known who was driving at the time. Roche was a transfer student in the Freshman Year of Studies 
·program; Crinella was a sophomore in the College ofArts and Letters and Buhman was a sophomore in the College ofEngineering. 
In another incident, Paul Ber­
. tolini, ofNiles, Ill.,.died suddenly ofa massive heart attack one week after receiving a Bachelor's degree in American Studies. 
Bertolini was a memeber of the Notre Dame Marching Band and was a frequent performer at the Nazz, a coffeehouse in the basement of LaFortune Student Center. 
A release from Dean of Students James Roemer's office stated that the former Zahm resident "had not been ill, and his death was unexpected." 
one week after graduating from Notre Dame. 
Kathleen Roche, 20, ofEscondido, Calif., died at the scene ofthe May 15 crash, which occurred in the desert about 14 miles east ofBarstow. 
Gina Crinella, 21, of Costa Mesa, Calif and Alita Buhman, 20, of Hun­tington, Calif., were taken to nearby hospitals. Crinella died five hours later. Buhman was admitted in criti­cal condition, and died about two weeks later. 
The California Highway Patrol said following the accident that the car apparently ran off the road and rolled over, throwing the three from the vehicle. 
While there were no witnesses, police said physical evidence showed that the driver might have fallen asleep at the wheel. It is no~ 
STUDY ABROAD 
Orientation Meetings on Sunday, August 29 
at St. Mary's from 9-10 in Moreau's Little Theatre at Notre Dame at 2:30 pm 
Welcome Baptist Students! 
BAPTIST STUDilfT UlfiOlf 

Bible Study· Fellowship ·Fun 
JOIN US! 
"':"""•. 


~------~ 
The Observer 
Saturday, AuWJst ,28,J982 -page 8 

·­
-,1 .~ 
Welcome to Notre Dame! 
Take the EASY RIDER 
to and from Chicago's O'Hare. Clip and save this schedule · for travel planning! 
LEAVE NOTRE DAME BUS SHELTER  LEAVE MICHIANA REGIONAL AIRPORT  ARRIVE 0 HARE  LEAVE 0 HARE  ARRIVE Mlf.HIANA REGIONAl AIRPORT  ARRIVf NOTRf OAMI Hlr; SHFI If R  
4 30 a m 5·30 am 7 30 am 9 30 am 11 30 a m 1 30 p m 3 30 p m. 5 30 p m  5 00 a.m 6 00 a m B 00 a m 10 00 am 12 00 noon 2 00 p m 4 00 p m 6 00 p m  7 15 am 8 15 am 10 15 am 12 15 p m 2 15 p m 4 15 p m 6 15 p m 8 15 p m  8 30 a m 10 30 a m 12 30 p m 2 30 p m 4 30 p m 6 30 p m B 30 p m 11 00 p m  TO 15 am T? 4~ p m 7 45 p m 4 4~ ~~ m 6 4~ p In 8 45 p m 10 4~ u m 1 l'lit m  I I IHJ rt Ill 1 IHlt• Ill \IIIIa 111 '1 1Hl ,• w , OP jl II' 4 1\H: 'I' 1 1 1)1', ''' , \(' l'  
-~  

TIMES E-FFECTIVE THROUGH OCTOBER 31 1YRI (WATCH FOR OUR NEW FALL SCHEDULE'' CALl FOR COMPLETE LIST OF PICKUP POINTS AN II '1M I· 
For Reservations 
{Z19) 155-3068 
or call your travel agent. 
'· 

Freshman Year offers home 
By BOB VONDERHEIDE 
NewsEditor 
Home base for Notre Dame fresh­men is the Freshman Year ofStudies, an office coordinating the freshmen 
· curriculum and guidance program. "The Freshman Year ofStudies is, in effect, the college for freshmen," says Dr. Emil T. H.ofman, dean of Freshman Year. "Freshmen need special consideration and care both academically and personally." All freshmen tackle a schedule of liberal studies including classes in social studies, science, writing, and mathematics. 'Students also take courses in their proposed field of study. "In the academic transition," Hof­man says, "freshmen must first get a good foundation in general educa­tion, but they must also have the op· portunity to sample areas of specialization before they commit to cenain majors." Freshman Year also employs seven coimselqrs who guide stu· dents' transition into the sophomore year. In addition, the Freshman Learning Resource Center offers old-test files, tutors, and career guidance. "It's not easy being a freshmen," says Hofman, who has been dean since I972. "But there is so much help given here, the freshmen stay." More than 99 percent of the fresh· . men remain at Notre Dame, compared to 70 percent at some col· leges. Dean Hofman, who also teaches freshmen General Chemistry, or­ganizes a popular array of social ac­tivities. "It is very imponant that freshmen be given some help in making these social and personal ad·· justments." The first activity is 'a shopping 
tour ofSouth Bend set for Saturday, either a student variety show or a September 4. The four-hour tour movie followed by a dance. The first highlights local shopping malls and Other Choice is September 11. 
stores. Other social events include Fresh-
The picnic at the Dunes on Lake · man Date Nights, Football Video Michigan will be Sunday, September Parties, and trips to Chicago. 
12. Lunch and dinner is provided. The Freshman Year Office is 
A new activity, Freshmen's Other located behind the administration Choice, will be held three times this building near Lewis Hall and the semester. Each program will include laundry. 

···:....,... ·. 

Students move into-LeMans HalifJiStiintMatjls College Friday. . Orientation activitiesfor the 498 newstudents begin today. (Photo by Rachel Blount) • 
1 
f 
l 
i
•
i' 
I
• 
LUMBER HARDWARE FURNITURE 2 BLOCKS FROM NOTRE DAME WE DELIVER!!.
PAINT PLUMBING ELECTRICAL 
NOTRE DAME TOILET CORK SQUARES EXTENSION CORDS tf wood 
He.avyr;·,~-SEAT 

··_ 
~le 

1.99 Duty ~ .
Vinyl It's a table, it's a wall. it's what you want it to be. Easily. ·Padded _ . .. "\ ~' /,
~17.99. 

.75 


Create your own modular shelving units with Hagerwood Knockdown Shelving Units. Ideal for stereos, bookshelves, dividers. Simple to assemble, simple to disassemble. 
SHELVING BOARDS 
PARTICLE BOARD
PINE 

SIZE REGULAR PRICE SALE PRICE 
1"x4"x6' 1.59 

B"x 16" 17.99 14.99
1"x4"x6' 1.99 

16"x 16" 19.99 15.99
1"x6"x6' 2.79 

8"x32" 26.99 21.59
1"x6"x8' 3.59 

16"x 32" 31.99 25.59
1"x8"x6' 2.99 

24"x 24" 31.99 25.59
1"x8"x8' 3.99 

24"x 32" 35.99 28.99
1"x12"x6' 4.99 2.49 1"x12"x8' 6.79 2.99 

STUFF FOR STUDENTS 






ACC••
FREE DELIVERY WILL BE MADE TO ONE LOCATION, ONE DAY OF THE WEEK 
HARDWARE HOmE CENTER r 
ON PURCHASES OF $50 OR MORE. PURCHASES LESS THAN $50 WILL BE SUBJECT TO A $5 DELIVERY CHARGE. ALL DELIVERED ITEMS MUST BE PAID IN ADVANCE.
1801 SOUTH BEND AYE. (SR. 23) 
~ .I!L_~

DELIVERY TIME AND PLACE 
"YOUR COMPLETE HARDWARE AND BUILDING MATERIALS CENTER" WILL BE POSTED. -sR23 

-~~~~----~-------·~~~.. __ j"'; j:~_-·.r~.::~-~-~-~:··;·_:.1
~-. ~)",'n' ·.::·~{..: f ·. .._· ~DtJ,L(d ..'c .•,'. • .; ' ·• ~~~ l 
EditorialS ~:-,
saturday,Augustzs, 19s2-page9 
f'!
!· _.. 
1;. =-. 
Centtality of language and its provocative nature ; . 
existed as one with God for all time. ger of becoming entombed in an in· addiction televi· defecations.
In the beginning was the Word: Censorship, to movie industry's 
the Word was However, these lines are also con­sipid crypt of television, video sion, escapism, drug and alcohol However, when a thoughtful and
with God and the Word was God. troversial. They express the primacy games, cable home movies, and abuse, etc., are phenomena that provocative movie such asShoot the of language in human experience. simply put, hedonistic escapism. restrict our society's members' Moon appears, a parent should For, what is the Bible on first inspec· The very verbal and written ability ability to develop the verbal and · judge whether a child or adolescent
Ken Scarbrough 
tion but a work of literature? with the language that a written abilities needed to under­is ready for the truth it expresses Anthropologists assert quite often democracy's citizens must have is stand the fundamental issues of the about the American fami~I" and mar­that, besides the opposable thumb, quickly fading into a functional present. Censorship of Twain's riage. True literature, art, film· our upright stature, and our ability literacy even in highly learned and writings forces one to think ofhis es­making, photography, etc., do not
Filth Year 

to create and to use tools, language specialized fields such as business say "Cooper's literary Offenses" in shy away from the realitic:s of the making differentiates the human management, engineering, which he addresses the dangers of "human condition"; they transform These lines enter the reader's animal from his fellow inhabitants academia, government, law and euphemistic thought and writing. them into an artifact for one's en­mind first as the opening words of on this planet. Without language, all medicine. The absurdest irony ofall Twain perceived how those in lightenment and enjoyment. We the theologically reflective "fanfare" of the glories (and detriments) of is that those cretins who would not power can force us to agree that the must be careful in this society in of John's Gospel. They encapsulate civilization would be impossible. allow an eighth grader to read Huck emperor's new clothes are exquisite what we attempt to contol. Parents, the Christian's belief that Jesus pos­The facility of efficacious verbal Finn do allow him, as a passive when he actually wears none. For a religious officials, politicians, and sesses in Him the intersection of In­and literary use of the language is automaton, to become an addict of high school student to read, for ex­professionals should demand quality finity and Eternity; the creative not being developed (on the whole) television and its garbage. ample, Twain's "Cooper's Literary from the entertainment industry. energy that is the Paraclete has in our schools, and we risk the dan-Technology is, in itself, a neutral Offenses," Orwell's "Politics and the Those who heavy-handedly attempt phenomenon. Progress in the English Language," Homage to to restrict an intellectually curoious human species' worldly develop­Catalonia, and 1984, he would be· high school student's right to read, ment should not be fought per se. cognizant of the web of lies he will for example, the works of D. H. Hoever, the present course upon encounter as an adult. Regretfully, Lawrence, of Karl Marx, of Darwin which the industrialized West in set the insular and shortsighted mem­and of Twain endanger the founda­can only make one sit back and take bers of the so-called Moral Majority tion of knowledge upon which this stock of just where in the scheme of might force a high school to drop society is built. We have more cause things the human element has been Orwell's writings from an English for concern in the "language" that lost. Simply, humanity has abused class syllabus, because Orwell was a our government officials use than in the fruits of years of scientific dis­socialist and fought on the republic's the fact that Holden Caulfield in covery by turning them into nuclear side with the P.O.U.M. militia during Salinger's Catcher tn the Rye en­weapons, the bastardization of the Spanish Civil .War. He was also a counters the words "F--k You" writ· physics. vehement critic ofthe Soviet Union. ten on the wall in the stairwell ofhis Simultaneously, the knowledge Assuredly, we must establish stan­sister Phoebe's school; he does erase that each of us must have to in­dards for children. There is no need those words. His actions should fluence the way in which those who to expose them either to most ofthe guide how we should regulate a 
represent us vote grows more and slime and vacuity tha constitute child's reading habits, pastimes, and more obscure, arcane, and slippery. television programming or to the leisure hours. 
The anti-prayer atnendtnent 
Last week many people saw on the and to have taken credit for a kidnap· Jesus, who told his followers to pray television news a moving exchange ping. Opponents of the prayer-in· 
in private, who praised the between a rabbi and a priest. The school amendment are reviled, publican's quiet prayer in the
Livingdaytoday 
rabbi was thanking the priest for threatened, their patriotism im· shadow over the Pharisee's public rescuing the sacred scrolls from a pugned. Books are banned by display of righteousness, who said College life holds no escape from dealing with the immediate con­burning synagogue. It was a hopeful people who tell us that God cannot religious acts should not be osten­item, a silent indictment of the anti· put up with Kurt Vonnegut. What
depression. Whether freshman or cerns of relationships With others, tatious, should almost be done on 
Semitism, always sleeping, that has kind of God do these people have?
senior, we students face a year full of we forget the past and future, the sly, so the left hand does not . awakened to angry life in France and What kind of people are these, so
sadness and despair. Homesickness looking only toward the next mo­know what the right hand is doing.elsewhere. quick to curse, so slow to forgive, so
coupled with tension and fatigue ment. Jesus most often went off alone to lend gloomy skies to a time thought From this moment-by-moment pray himseU: apart even from his
in love with compulsion, so little in love with the divine variety? What
Gary Wills
always filled with joy and revelry. lifestyle, we become better able to own disciples. He does not seem to 
handle the pressures of exams, as­stunts the human spirit cannot be have liked grand liturgies, the trum­Paul McGinn· signments and classes with from God, and these are clearly pets blown when alms are given. I stunted people.
heartthrobs ofromance, and the joys suspect he finds it hardest to hear issue
of companionship. College life Outrider The school-prayer is not prayers that are boomed from develops into a simple commitment really about prayer at all -you can loudspeakers. Scripture says that
For What It's Worth to each thought in its own turn But, on reflection, this tell that ifyou listen to its advocates. God speaks in a small still voice; and heartwarming story leaves a sad af. It is about other people's having to why sould men not imitate him?
rather than becoming a myriad of 
While freshmen deal with the idea thoughts rambling at once. terglow. It is sad that it should be The Jewish prophets were scath· that they are insignificant among Through organizing our thoughts treated as news for one man of God ing in their denunciation of ritual as many bright students, seniors face and time, we come to better under­to help another, for charity 'It is about other people's a substitute for doing justice. Yet
and the ultimate realities of the business stand the meaning of this seemingly mutual support to seem an excep· what is the prayer amendment but world, marriage, or graduate school. unfathomable college scene. We tion where it should most be having to pray in public, an emphasis on ritual? True religion 
It is a time when we can become so come to view ourselves as unique presumed. Why is this? I suppose the will find its voice, in prayer and immersed in ourselves that we fail to and irreplaceable members of the explanation lies in the other items of orpaying attention to humility and love for others. It can­realize our own talents or to see the Notre Dame family. religious news we read or hear of not be silenced. But neither can it be needs ofothers. And from this recognition of our every day. These are largely tales of the advocates as they compelled, or instilled by rote, or 
During these four years of reflec­self-worth within the campus com­pettiness, displaying meanness of made genuine by being made offi· tion and decision, we may look with· munity, we come to realize that any spirit, as if religion does not exalt pray in public. cia!. in and without the campus human beings but shrinks them. In Opponents of the school-prayer
of us who can successfully combine community for the support to both the intellectual challenges of fact, a recent article in Harper's It is about getting one 's amendment say it violates the Con­
magazine made just that charge. But I am
overcome the rigors ofgrowing up. 15 credit hours with the daily con· stitution. Maybe so. less Though we cannot transport our cerns of helping others is well­It is not a charge I agree with, but I way, and silencing sure of this than that it violates the hometowns to Notre Dame nor equipped to handle whatever lies understand the feelngs ofthe author. Christian gospel or turns a deaf ear devote all of our free time to the The old line of Lucretius was opponents. . . ' to the Jewish prophets, from whose
beyond these hallowed halls. salvation of mankind, we can inject It is within this acknowledgment· nevermore appropriate, it seems, words we all live. The amendment than now: "How suasive is religion
ourselves into the day-to-day ex­of life that we grow in the spirit of may be outside the spirit of the law, periences of this campus and this hope and fulfillent. There are no ifs to our bane." pray in public, or paying attention to b!.lt it is clearly opposed in spirit to city. Whether the activity is hall or but's, only now's. And when we Just consider. Opponents ofabor· the advocates as they pray in public. the Spirit, which breathes where it sports, volunteer work, or just a live for now, sadness and despair tion seem to have committed arson It is about getting one's way, and will and surprises us when we are 
quiet talk with a friend, each of us fade as we fully share in today's vic is· against abortion centers -burning silencing opponents. least "religious" in the ritual sense. 
comes to live for the moment. In situdes. hosp~als instead of synagogues -Most ofthis is done in tl}_s: name of That's why I pray it fails. 
Editorial Board Department Managers 
The Ob rerver is an independent newspaper published by the students of the 
Ftlitt1r· in·Cbie(. ........ Michal.'l Monk Husiness .\tanager ... . ......... .Tony Ail.'llo 
Umversity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not neces~arily 
.\ltiJWging l:'tlilo1·.. .... lhan \'t-r lkrkmoc~ Controller .. . .... .. . ErK Sd1Ufl . reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The nL"ws i~ report· 
Fxecutit'<' .\'eu•s Ftlitor.. .... KI.'IIi Flinl .~tft•ertisins .\tanager.. .Ciui~ Ow~:n ed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of 
.\.II< .\'eu·s l:'tlitor.. .... \largart'l h>~mo<· PmtluUion .Hmtag<•r.. . .......... :\laura Murphy a maJority of the Ed1torial Board. Co.nmentaries, opinions and letters are the views 
.\j111rts Ftlitor ... ....Chri~ Ncnllt·s Circulation .\tanager .. .f{ay lnglin 
of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the communtty, and 
l:tlitoria/s l:'tlitor .. .....Paul \kCinn .\)·stems .Hanager .. ... Hrun· Oakkythe f rce expression of varying opinwns on campu>, through letters, ii encounged. 
Features l:'tlitur ......Tari Brown l'huto Ftlitor .. . f{adll.'l Hlounl 
Founded November 3. 1966
P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 

The Observer Saturday, August 28, 1982 -page 10 
JohnO'Hanlon '65 Welcomes Evetyone to South Bend 
LIQUOR WINE 
BEAMBLEND 1.75L $9.89 JACK DANIELS 750 ml $8.98 ANDRE CHAMPAGNE 750 ml $2·.98 JIM BEAM BOURBON1.75L $12.69 J. ROGET SPUMANTE· 750 ml $2.89 
WILD TURKEY 750 ml $8.19 MARTINI & ROSSI SPUMANTE 750 ml $9.98 ALMADEN BRANDY 750 ml $6.19 ALMADEN RHINE & CHABLIS 3 L $7.89 WINDSOR CANADIAN 1.75 L $12.19 CALIFORNIA CELLARS allFlavors 4 L $8.19. BARTONS GIN 1.75 L $9.19 CARLO ROSSI all Flavors 4 L $6.39 HIRAM WALKER APRICOT CANE/ all Flavors 1.5 L $6.19 BRANDY 1 L $6.98 GALLO CHABLIS BLANC & RHINE 3 L $6.98 HIRAM WALKER PEPPERMINT INGLENOOK CHABLIS &RHINE 4 L $7.79 SCHNAPPS 1 L $5.98 RIUNITE LAMBRUSCO 1.5 L $5.39 AMARETTO di CORSO 750 ml $4.79 SEBASTIAN/all Flavors 4L $7.98 
KAHLUA 750 ml $9.89 
with NDot St. ffiaty's I.D~
SOUTHERN COMFORT 1 L $8.39 
KE 

30 LBS.ICE FREE YUKON JACK 750 ml $7.59 J25.00 Tap Deposit CRUZADA WHITE RUM 1 L $5.89 
1/2 brl. 1/4 brl.
Mac KINTOSH SCOTCH 1.75 L $12.39 
MILLER $40.00 $24.50 
ARANDAS WHITE TEQUILLA 1 L $6.59 
MILLER LITE $40.00 $24.50 
. KAMCHATKA VODKA 1.75 L $8.69 
AUGSBERGER NR  $9~49  
BUDWEISER cans  $8.49  
HAMMScans  $5.98  
HEINEKENNR  $16.89  
MILLER cans  $7.98  
MILLER LITE cans  $7.98  


BEER 
Cans 01 Bottles by the case 
MOLSON GOLDEN ALE NR $11 .29 OLD MILWAUKEE 
cans $5.89 OLD STYLE cans $8.39 OLYMPIC cans $7.59 PABST cans 
ss.ga

STROHScans $7.98 
PABST $32.98 $22.00 
STROHS $40.50 $26.00 
BUSCH $40.50 
BUDWEISER $40.50 $26.00
BEER 
MICHELOB $50.00 $27.50 Quarts by the Case BRAUMElSTER $26.00 BLATZ $9.89 AUGSBERGER $36.50 BUDWEISER $10.98 HUBER $26.00 
HAMMS $9.39 1---------------1 
~~S H0 wc~~~iiiiiSiiiiiEiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiSaiiituiiirdaiiiy,Aiiiugiiiusiiit2iii8,ii198iii2iiiiipagiiie1iiiii1 

Is there lite after classes ? 
Three years as a Notre D.tme :-.tuden. na\'• tat.;,;llt me many things about how people <.ketde .u o~ve out tllL'tr days on this campus. The dtfterent methods vary some but rarely do they run outside of the accepted norm. 
Some are determined to spend their choicest hours perusing their textbooks, absorbing the minutest facts and figures concerning the topography ofSwaziland while others make a concerted effort to memorize with· in one weekend the exact location and prices ofall the area liquor establishments. 
Last year something very odd, almost foreign to this campus, happened to the freshmen. It seemed as though they had, as a united body, decided to dedicate themselves to the rigors of the academic life. That was all very fine considering that we as students atteml this university for just that purpose. The problem was that their dedication had faculty and staffworried because· the freshmen were studying to the exclusion of pursu· ing other extra-curricular activities. 
TariBrown 
features 

When I was a freshman, the excuse was, "I don't have time." College made me nervous. The idea that I would be attendingcollege courses, taught by some ofthe most learned people in their fields frightened me into budgeting my time with extreme discretion. Studies were first priority above all else. 
With me, that lasted for about two days, until I came across the audition notices for Hamlet. 
The excuse last year was much the same wording. The "do not" though seemed more absolute, rather symptomatic ofborderline paranoia. It was obvious to me that the excuse was taken more seriously than when I was a freshmen and adhered to with an almost fanatical dedication. 
Dedication to academics or non-academics? 
Someone very wise and very learned in the world once told me that it was important to find the balance between studying and pursuing my other interests. Those words ofwisdom guided me through my last three years. Choir, play rehearsals, movies, they all kept me sane enough to endure the last minute pressures of pre-finals week when everything but your grandmother had to be handed in by three o'clock Friday or your grade would drop a grade even ifyou aced the final. 
Living out your days on campus can be a chore, like taking out the garbage or cleaningout the garage, or it can open yours eyes and answer the question of whether there is life outside of textbooks. 
Rest assured that there is lite outside of Emil's chemistry manual. 
Where? As the motto of the state of Michigan goes, (modified herein), "Ifyou seck a pleasant experience, look about you." 
The choices range from art to dance, with a little hit ofeverything in between. 
One of the things any visitor to Notre Dame or Saint :\lary's discovers is that this is an artistic community. From the various sculptures that adorn our campus to the collections housed in our museums and galleries. one notices that the people here value art. The Snite :Vtusuem ofArt houses a permanent collection ranging in periods from )"iOO B.C. up to the present. The O'Shaughnessy Galleries, adjacent to the Snite :\luscum, provide exhibition space for traveling collections. Dealing mostly with contemporary art, they presently are exhibiting two shows: the Annual Faculty .Show from August 29 to October I 0 and Women Artists: Tbe Indiana -.Vew York Connection through September 
26. 
Across the road on Saint :\1ary's campus, three galleries are contained in :\loreau Hall. Throughout the coming semesters there will be student portfolios as welt as faculty and outside exhibitions displaye!l in the Hanu:ncs, Littlt: Theatre and Moreau Galleries. Though small in comparison to the Snite, the works there are not to be overlooked. The works are demonstrative of the direction in which the art world is moving. 
Ifwandering through an art gallery is not one ofyour major time priorities. music, theatre and dance provide three diflerent alternatives. 
For those with interested in vocal or instrumental music, there are choirs and ensembles to on both campuses to choose from. Saint Mary's :\1usic depart­ment sponsors the Chamber Singers, a mixed touring group, the Collegiate Choir, a pop group, and the Women's Choir, open to students from both campuses. Vocal music thrives at Notre Dame with Chorale, Uni­versity Chorus, men's Glee Club, Chapel Choir and Col­legium Musicum. 

Instrumental musicians have three resources, the Wind Ensemble and Collegium Musicum at Saint Mary's and the University Orchestra at Notre Dame. 
Music as performing art has its stages. Two of the regular arenas are Chautauqua and the Nazz, both in the Lafortune Student Center. The Nazz is reknowned for its campus musicians and comedy acts. Open Thursday, Friday and Saturday nights, a stop down there for a half 
. hour study break will bring you hack to reality and force you to remember that there is more to life than a Friday Though all ofthe music groups require auditions, no one should be discouraged. 
The stages of the Nazz and Chautauqua cohabitate the LaFortune Student Center. On Thursday, Friday and Saturday nights,student musicians, comics and whatever display their talents to warm, receptive audiences. Chautauqua, in a coffee shop atmosphere, presents the likes oflocal bands, gives its dance tloor an occasional workout and provides discussion space for social concerns presentations. 
Theatre is another area that has many opportunities throughout the year for participation. The cooperative Theatre Department of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's presents two seasons, the :\lain Stage and Second Scene. Auditions will be held for the first two productions, The Taming ofthe Shrew and Tbe Maids, Wcdncsday, Sep­tember I at O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint :\1ary's and Thursday, September 2 at Washington Hall at Notre Dame at 7 p.m. both nights. These auditions, as with all the auditions for theatrical productions on campus, are open to all students. 
Each semester Student Players produces one show 
i
under the auspices of the Student Union. Whereas the productions sponsored by the Theatre Department arc educational in nature, the Student Players sole purpose is to entertain. 
l 
The ND/SMC Theatre Department oversees the operation of the Cnderground Theatre which is one of the newest performing spaces. Students who are in­terested in directing and producing on a smaller scale use this space. Frequently these productions are original works by faculty and staff. 
While art, music and theatre have been represented 
o.n campus for many years, the dance community has only recently surfaced under two forms. Departmental­ly, there is the Notr.. Dame/Saint :\lary's Dance Theatre. Classical ballet finds ib home in the Dance Theatre with classes ofvarying levels oftercd on Saint \laf)·'s campus. The Dance Theatre offers classes in techniques besides classical ballet. 
Abiogenesis Dflnce Co/lectiue, a student-run dance company, explores the world of modern dance in its classes and performing troupe. This group is open to all students regardless ofprevious experience. 
Don't let the bookstore he the only source of your learning experience. There arc many additional resources from which to learn about the dimensions of lite outside ofacademia. Walk into Washington Hall, Crowley Hall of :\1usic, the Snite, Moreau Hall or O'Laughlin and sec the other side oflife, the creative side. 

------------------------------------------------------------------~-----------------~ 
. ' .

The Observer •• • • I • ! . The Area's ~
Add color & warmth King of Carpetto dorm floors 

SANDOCK'S CARPET-WAY
;· 
ONE OF THE 
WORLD'S GREATEST! CARPET REMNANT SALE 

SALE HOURS: 
••• of all 1st quality LEES an~ CABlN CRAFTS carpeting 
* CHOOSE FROM 1700 ·pt£CES!
*UAIID£MOIIIUII Of VAlUE! *A REVELRY OF SAVING! 
*PLEASE -NO DEALERS 
Colos14111lees~ TJtankCabin Crafts! The -­house of theM giants were glutted with remnants, loaclecl with rol-encla, P'-accumulated from their ~·t season ever, In such profus'-as to throttle their operatio111 --completely. 1hey had to Ml and HI quidcly -and that's when ''CARPIJ-WAY" stepped ln. With a~ hard 
· -"wipe-'offer, -bought every 1lngle plew -could at bare rock-bottom-and now we pas• the savings antoyoul 
f!IRFfCT FOR • • • 
BUY NOW FOR••• FLOORS
BEDROOMS 

WALLS KITCHENS 
BATHROOMS 
STEPS 
BASEMENlS 
DECKS 

..___..._: ..______, 
FREE FRONT DOOR PARKING 
• EVERY STYLE IMAGINABLE 
Shag, twist, plush, loop, tweed, 
cut/uncut, mlltl-levelfigured 
• BRING YOUR ROOM SIZES 
Snap up theM values on the spot 
• LEES -CABIN CRAFTS QUALITY 
Our Country's finest, most famous mills 
DELIVERY AVAILABLE 
Moderate Charge 
INSTALLATION AVAILABLE 

~ No llly-o-way, No haW orden, No phone or mall orclen, AIIUI!fect to prtor IICIIe, All prlclntl II on
CGih cnl a.ry lllasll, AI..._... •• ....,_,. 
'IDEAL FOR ••• TRAILERS conAGES CLOSOS STAnOIWAGONS 

:::::..... , FINANCING 
• 
AVAILABLE 

.PERFECT FOR • • 
DORMITORIES IAPARTMENTS :STUDY ROOMS ,ANY ROOMS 
OTHER REMNANT GROUPS NOT LISTED 
• EVERY COLOR IMAGINABLE 
Gokl l'lnlr  lwery.......  Cannel Al'ricOI  J_..ll Sauterne  Orten... .............  
Aqyo ll-J-Coin  Sooldlo ........ Aaa..a Cerite  AvocodO Dretden lohama 'oprlka  Alttln"'• Amltervlow ll..eltell lop~Mol  o........... floml....,._,,,. ••, ... o_  
Olive  Copper  S.vlllo  Hpodnth  Clo.,clp J.....  
G•..n  Nougat  Jonq.,ll  Heliotrope  hatted Coc..  
••'11•  .... rplo  Honey  Cort••••d  Fresco llue  
Connel  A1tec  lronae  lvyGr..n  Greckln Olive  
Aron-.e  Avtvmn  Mogento  Manderin  Montevo So...,.  
While  •ev•l  Sooldlo  Ocean Green  M .. ffln h19D  
A1ure  Morlne  ........  Tvrquoiae  wh,.. o,.,.  




AREA'S LARGEST CA~PET SPECIALTV STORES 
N 0 and St. Mary's) 31 (hiway between · · DIRECTIONS: Take U.S. side of hiway as N.D. SANOOCK'S on same 50760 U.S. 31 NORTH
North to "' ' 
South Ben(J, IN ... 1/3 mile uefore Michigu ~:::11.e L:,,," 



12.93 
24.95 

$5ha~k ona 5-star skillet a 
29.97 

LESS soo
REBATE 
*Big 12"x 12"size 
* SilverStone® non-stick ·interior for easy clean-up 
*Accurate Sensa-Temp® heat control *Dishwasher-safe 
* $5 back from West Bend ...details at our store 
2to6cup 

HOTPOJ 
HEAT and SERVER 
• 
5 adjustable temperature settings heat beverages and foods quickly! 

• 
Perfect for dorm rooms, apartments, offices and kitchens. 

• 
Lock-on cover minimizes accidental spillage. 



N.D. Inflatable Stadium Cushion and Beverage Container (Holds 2 gallons ofyour 
favorite beverage) 
Tepe's Student Special 

11.97 
Tepe's Low Price 13.97 
Manufa«;:ture's Suggested Retail 
.95 



Offer expires Dec. 31, 1982. Void where prohibited, taxed or restricted by law. 
• 
1OO"'o solid-state chassis 

• 
Molded-in carrying handle 


• 
Earphone jack and earphone included 

• 
Decorator cabinet in white colored high­impact plastic 


Teoe's Student Special 
69.97 

Tepe's Low Price 
78.87 


IJ'­
• 
ThL Observer 

-. 
---~ 

----~----­
Saturday, August 28, 1982 -page 14 

robert plantpictures at eleven 
INCLUDf S 

BURNING DOWN ONE SIDE SlOW DANCER I FAT liP ~ WORSE THAN DETROIT '7!" 
SWAN SONG 
Chicago 16 
Includes Hard 10 Say I'm Sorry tllD What Can I Say ~ ? What 'k>u're Missing/Chatns 
~~ t/ltc"~~ 
NO CONTROL 
including: Think I'm In Love Shakin Runnin· Away Dnvin Me Crazy My Fnends. My Fnends 

THE STEVE MILLER BAND 
Abracadabra 
featuring Abracadabra-Keeps Me Wondering Why Cool Magic· Somelf~~g Special 
CAPITOL 
cassettes & Albums. 
~,Stdh cJVGAh 
DAYLIGHT AGAIN 

11\CLUDE' 
WASTED ON THE WAY _m TURN YOUR BACK ON lOVE -"---=~ SOUTHERN CROSS 
.ATLANTIC 
REO SPEEDWAGON 
+ Givethe!!iftofmusic.. 
SURVIVOR 
EYE OF THE TIGER 
including: Eye 01 The Tiger The One That Really Matters I'm Not That Man Anymore Children 01 The Night/~merican Heartbeat 

( ;ooJ> THOL'BLE 
lrtCIUdlng Keep The F~re Burn•n'fSweet T1me The Key/Every Now And Then Back In My Heart Aga1n 
The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 


----~--~-~ ~~­
~------~-~~ ~-~-~ --~----­
·. lj 
! 
. ~ ':; 
~I 

The Observer Saturday, August 28, 1982 -page 15 
Givethegift ofn1usic. 
.­

ZZTOP. Tres Hombres 
Includes Waitin' For The Bus Jesus Just Left Chicago/LaGrange 
WARNER BRO . 
Actual Selection May vary By Location. 

WARNER BROS. MCA 
The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
~------~­

---------.fc._..:.__­
The Observer Saturday, August 28, 1982-page 16 
Where to find it on the first floor of HAMMESNOTREDAMEBOOKSTORE 
1. 
Entrance 


2. 
Briefbag-backpacks 

3. 
Artsupplies, calculators, film & processing 

4. 
School supplies 

5. 
Greetingcards 

6. 
Stationeryand notes 

7. 
Pens 

8. 
]ewelry,gifts 

9. 
N.D.jewelry 



10. 
Religious articles 

11. 
Health & beautyaids 

12. 
Records &tapes 

13. 
Insignia ware 


14. 
Novelties 

15. 
Copy machine 

16. 
Sports shirts 

17. 
Sports wear 

18. 
Jackets 

19. 
Sweatshirts 

20. 
Caps 

21. 
Youth sportswear 

22. 
Generaloffice 

23. 
Check outstations 

24. 
Parcelcheck 

25. 
Stairs to book department 



I

,, I
,, 

2t> I i
f I I I II II I II 0 II I I II ').I 
):.'1-­
II I I II X II I I II 
X
X X lb X
X
X 
X
X X 



0 

If
I I 

oOO 


Where to find books on the upper level ofthe HAMMESNOTREDAMEBOOKSTORE­
-H F-J '-1 I ""4 I I I --I I 'L..I ..__
1-·-· I ­
J c/1-.' ., i P-" 
I

..... --II I II ld :1 I II 1­
'<:' ... 
.'I I 2 
..... ~-1­
' 9

\! -...: 
...... <-I I II I II u1~ II fl­
't

\U I 
1-­

9 Mr.. '{ 
II­

~ 
1­
-
1­
1­
~ 
1­
h­
1­

~ I I II I II :I ! I II 
I ~ ll­
9 &: 
1-Avv

I I II I Uld I I 3 II 
-~
I 
:3

c:m \ j 1­
I 
'--­
-
-
-
-
....__­
' 

I I II I II 1_1) I 11 I 
2..

I ­
8U 

CJI I II ~ . I -11113HII I ­
,......;. 

:L ;( -~ 

-

o'o~~~~~~
'
li 

D[] DDQil'~ an 

1. 
Arts and Letters 3. Engineering 

2. 
Science 4. Business 


.. 

The Observer Sctturday, August 28, 1982.-page 17 
... ·:.:; 




RockneMemorial 

BARNABY'S 
2Locations 
713 E.Jefferson 3724 Grape Rd 288-4081 256-0928 South Bend Mishawaka 
WELCOME
---··· BAc·K' 
. 

Featuring Pizza, Sandwiches, Soups, Salad Bar Offering Beer, Wine & Soft Drinks 

Eddy 


c: 
0 
Ill
·­
~ 
Uriversity 
.ParkMalf
~­
n 

GrapeRd GrapeRd
;t.-·
" 
<D 

"'< 
Spo~S~ft-· 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
All undergraduate womeninterested in trying out for the Notre Dame varsity women's tennis team should attend an organizational meeting Monday at 7:30p.m. in the ACC (Gate 2). Tryouts will begin Tuesday at 3:30. p.m. Freshmen are especially encouraged to attend -The Observer 
Notre Dame baseballCoach Larry Gallo will hold a very important meeting tor both returnee~ from the 1982 baseball team and any new candidate interested in trying out for the varsity baseball team. The meeting will be held on Tuesday, August 31, at 
4:30 p.m. in the Athletic and Convocation Center auditorium. All classes, freshman through senior, are invited to attend and are asked to bring a pen or pencil to the meeting. Returnees from the 1982 team will be asked to.stay for a short time after the meeting. -The Observer 
The Non-Varsity Athletic office has announced the first set of registration deadlines for the early fall's interhall sports. Beginning Tuesday, interested students can sign up to par­ticipate in the following sports: interhall tennis (men's and women's singles, and mixed doubles); grad-faculty tennis (men's and women's singles, and mixed doubles); 16-inch softball; and co-ree softball. Deadline for these sign-ups is Tuesday, September 7. Inter­hall football sign-ups also will take place in the next week, but will be conducted within the individual dormitories. For more information, contact your dorm's athletic commissioner or call the new 24-hour NVAphone line at 239-5100. -The Observer 
$2 off orv 


$2 off arv 
14" pizza 
1O"pizza 
exp. Sept 12
exp Sept f2 



COUPON
COUPO~i 
Buy one 
ne free refill 
san::iwich 
of pitcher 
Get one free 
softdrirks 
xp. Sept. 12 
exp Sept. 12 
-· 
.. 


The Observer Saturday, August 28, 1982 -page 18 


Welcome Freshmen! We handle Redken and RK products 
eOpen sixdays per week efulf Seruice Shop 
• Sixstylists to serue you Ohe .WinJjammer 232-6622 
HAll'> STYLING FOR DISCRIMINATING MEN & WOMEN , 
1637 lincoln Way Wesl -Soulh Bend, lnd1an;, 46628 
·­
Puzzello's 
What makes Rickey run? 

The first thing you notice about Rickey Henley Hen­derson is, you are surprised you are able to see him. A guy who steals a base a game should be about as visible as an amoeba. You figure he must end to fade out when he gets to first base. He's like The Shadow in the old radio serial. You can hear him, but you can't see him. Lamont Cranston in spikes. Or, maybe, he just wraps himself in miles ofbandages like Claude Rains. 
Rickey's a perfectly ordinary-looking fellow. About 5-10, 190, he only has the two legs. The eyes are alert and wary. They remind you ofa deer who has just heard a hammer click. He talks fast, he walks fast, he probably eats fast, but there are no antennae poling out where his ears ought to be. He looks totally terrestrial. He doesn't change outfits in a phone booth. He comes to work on the team bus like everyone else even though a teammate one night answered a reporter's question "Rickey Henderson? He ain't here yet, but he'll come in over the flagpole in centerfield any minute." 
Rickey is the new U.S. Steal Corp. He's making a shambles of the basepaths. He's making a mockery of the geometry of the grand old game which dictated since the days ofAbner Doubleday that a ball can travel 127 feet faster than a man can run 90 feet. If Rickey were a step faster, they'd have to outlaw him -or re­engineer the game. 
Rickey has already stolen well over 100 bases this year. Up until 1962, no one had ever even stolen 100 bases in a whole season. Henderson did it byJuly. Ifyou t.hink this isn't remarkable, consider that Dom DiMag­gio 'led the American League in steals as late as 1950 with 15 for the season. Stan Hack led the National League back-to-back in the '30s. One year he had 16. The next year, he improved: He had 17. Rickey Hender­son has stolen more bases than the New York Yankees stole all last year. 
What makes Rickey run? Sheer speed? That's not enough. That's like saying black gloves make you a burglar. There may be a dozen guys as fast as Rickey Henderson in the game. And they don't have half as many steals. 
Rickey Henderson smiles slyly when asked his "secret." "Oh, I have my 'keys,"' he says vaguely. The keys to the kingdom for Rickey proved to be amor­phous things like the way a pitcher bends his knee, the way his ~boulders point when he stretches. 
Rickey Henderson may have Olympic speed and more keys than a night watchman. But that's not what makes him the greatest thief since Bonnie & Clyde. 
What makes Rickey Henderson the Man of Steal is runaway confidence, bordering on arrogance. He doesn't believe there's a pitcher alive who can throw· the ball60 feet six inches when he's on base, and, then, have the catcher throw it 127 feet three inches in the time it takes him to dash 90 feet. 
The proof is all on his side. If you read the record books, you will find that once a pitcher has let go ofthe ball Rickey Henderson has a 91 percent chance of success. 
Henderson has no fear offailure, anyway. Recently in Anaheim, he got picked off in the frrst inning, and thrown out in the second and sixth, once on a pitchout. When he got on base in the ninth inning, he promptly took off for -and stole -second. Rickey is like that World War I flying' ace. He comes out of the burning wreckage -and goes right back up in the sky in anoth­er rickety craft. 
· The first study ofa base-stealer is to get on base. The baseball axiom for it is, "You can't steal second from the 
J'UD Murray 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiBeiiiiistot~--im Murray
-
-· -~
~--·­

dtJgout." Rickey Henderson gets on base more than anyone in the game. He comes with first base like the straps. Every time you look up, Henderson is on it. At the end of July, he had failed to get on base only 10 games of the season. He had almost 90 walks, an astonishing statistic which makes you wonder if the American League pitchers read the papers. Giving Rick­ey Henderson a base-on-balls is lke giving him a triple, like giving a fox a chicken to take care of. A pitcher has little to lose throwing him strikes, particularly since he's a lead-off man. 
Still, it's not that easy. Henderson has a strike zone the size of Hitler's heart. There's hardly room for a baseball in it. There's hardly room for a key. Rickey at the plate appears to be trying to stand on his head, or put his feet in his back pocket at the same time. He looks like a guy squeezing himself into a trunk, or a suit three sizes too small. "He walks like Babe Ruth," Sparky Anderson once complained. Indeed, Ruth's single-season record of 170 walks is almost reachable for Henderson. "A walk is as good as a hit," is the ancient sandlot addage. In Rickey's case, it's better: it's as good as a two-base hit. 
Henderson feels his edge is acceleration. "I get out of first gear in two or three steps," he feels. Others feel the edge is attitude, not aptitude; philosophy, not velocity. Like the putter who wills his ball in the hole by envisioning it there, Henderson sees himself standing on second dusting himself off by the time the ball gets there. "I always felt if I started to steal secon&, I had an 85 percent chance of making it," Maury Wills, the first man ever to steal 100 bases, once wrote. "But, if I was stuck with the slightest inkling ofdoubt, the odds went down to 60 percent. And those aren't good odds at all." 
Henderson doesn't feel they can really catch him, un­less they install burglar alarms. Meanwhile, they tell the story, probably apocryphal, ofAngel Owner Gene Autry coming in the press room and inquiring of Henderson, "Well, did he steal anything tonight?" And the answer came back: "I don't know. Have you checked your horse today?" 
Copyrlgbt Los Angeles Ttmes S)'ndicate, 1982 
Henderson steals four but A'sstilllose 
MILWAUKEE ( AP) -Rickey Henderson swiped four bases to break Lou Brock's major league record for stolen bases in a single season, but Jim Gantner's two­run single in the bottom of the eighth lifted the Mil­waukee Brewers to a 5-4 win over the Oakland A's last night. 
Doc; Medich, 9-11, allowed only four hits over eight innings and Rollie Fingers pitched the ninth inning to earn his 29th save. · 
-


NOTRE DAME CREDIT UNION 
Services Include 
*Share Savings *Share Draft Checking 
*Money Orders  *Safe Deposit Boxes  
*Free Travelers Checks  * And More .....  
Coming Jan. 1  

A. T.M's (Automated Teller Machines) Offering 24 houraccess to your financial needs at convenient locations. 
Open Orientation Weekend ! 
Sat 8/28 9:00am 3:00pm Regular hours: Lobby: M-F 8:30am-5:00pm Wednesday's until5:30 pm Drive-in: M-F 8:30am-5:30pm Friday's until6:00 pm 
Locatedjust north ofStepan Center 
--__..........-----­
-~---------~-------­
The Observer Saturday, August 28, 1982 -page 19 
***************************************************' 

THE: TYPICAl NA\JV MAN'S LOCI<E:R. 
We know home's a 

see the world:' 
hard place to leave. But if you think it looks good, just wait till you hove been around ... after you've skied in the Alps, fished in New Zealand, hiked in Spain, and gone swimming in the Aegean ... as a Navy officer. We really aren't kidding when we say, "Join the Navy and 

NAVY OFFICERS 
GET RESPONSIBIUTY FAST. 
NROTC SCHOLARSHIPS AND COLLEGE PROGRAM BENEFITS WORTH UP TO $30,000 ~­ARE AVAILABLE TO QUALIFIED NOTRE DAME, SAINT MARY'S, I USB, HOLY CROSS, AND BETHEL COLLEGE STUDENTS. 
CONTACT NROTC, NOTRE DAME-239-6442 OR THE SOUTH BEND NAVY RECRUITING OFFICE-233~3911 for details. 

*************************************************** 


The Observer Saturday, August 28, 1982 -page 20 
• 

...... .............................................................
~
.. 


18461 St. Rd. 23 South Bend ca!lforappoimmenl277-1875 Shampoo, Conditioner, Cut Style 
NDSpecial 
Guys-$7.00 (re!!,. i..J.uO) . Giris-~10.00 (re~. 18.00) 
ICo-Designers Only ask for Nita orJeff 
.
.
. 

~~:~::::~:~:~::~:~:~:~=:~:1 . 
..: 
IWELCOME BACK 
I 

STUDENTSI 
Athletic Administrators 

Rev. E~und P.Joyce, C.S.C. ­A 1937 Notre Dame graduate, Fr. Joyce was appointed executive vice president of the University in 1952, just three years after his ordination. As Chairman of the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics, Joyce main­tains, "First things come first, and the first thing for.us are academics. I tell every squad of athletes that when the students return to campus each fall." 
Gene. Corrigan Since succeeding the legendary Moose Krause as athletic director in 1981, Corrigan already has made his presence felt. He has been in­strumental in the planning and or­ganization ofNotre Dame's first-ever athletic endowment fund, which will increase opportunities for all Notre Dame students at all levels of competition. Corrigan also is credited with the introduction of two new varsity sports -lacrosse and women's swimming -in his first full year as athletic director. Before coming to Notre Dame, Cor· rigan was responsible for the rapid growth ofthe athletic department at the University of Virginia during his nine years as director of athletic 
orograms. 
Gene Corrigan 

Edward W. "Moose" Krause­Tacking the word "emeritus" onto the title he owned for 31 years hasn't changed this cigar-smoking, story· telling administrator one bit. Asai:h._.­letic director emeritus, Krause continues to be an integral part of the Fighting Irish as he has been for over half a century. Now 69, Krause played for Knute Rockne in 1930 and was a regular tackle during the 1931, '32 and '33 campaigns. Notre Dame's first two-sport All-American, Krause was honored not only for his gridiron ~excellence, but as a basket· ball center as well. He was so dominant in the middle that basket· ball's three-second rule was adopted to control him. At present, Krause is quite active in fund-raising activities for the University athletic endow­ment fund. 
Col. John Stephens -He used to call himself, "Moose's office boy," but as associate athletic director, Jack Stephens is far more than that. After graduating from the t;he Uni­
versity of iowa, Stephens received-a 
master's degree in guidance 
counseling from Notre Dame. 
Following his voluntary retirement 
as commanding officer of the Uni­
versity's Army ROTC unit in 1968, 
"The Colonel" was named assistant 
athletic. directQr .and assumed his 
present position in 1976. He also 
serves as a director of the Walter 
Camp Football Foundation. 

WAREHOUSE 

Attention Students/ 
• 
WEST'BEND® 
....._, • __,.,.­
HOTPOT:M 
2 to 6 cup heat and server • brews instant tea, cocoa, soup and other hot beverages. 
$12.99 


5 heat settings;
REG. PRICE $14.95 
Hot Pepper exterior. 

Great for dormitory rooms ard apartmert use I 
Desk Lamps, Curtairs, Carpet Remrorts, 
Dishes & Mugs 3 Floors of Values 

Col.john Stephens 
Joseph O'Brien -A 1949 Notre Dame graduate, O'Brien is begin· ning his seventh year as assistant ath· letic director and the department's business manager. In 1955 he became director of personnel func· tions at South Bend's second largest employer-the University ofNotre Dame. He has been here ever since. 



joseph O'Brien 
Steve Orsini -Orsini returned to_his alma mater in 1981 to assume the position ofticket and promotion manager after three years as a cer­tified public accountant. "Ors" served as' specialty team captain on Dan Devine's 1977 national cham­pionship team, and earned three monograms in his playing career at NO. 

Steve Orsini 
See ADMINISTRATORS, page 21 


Dine among the antiques and enjoy our view of the new downtown! 
Reservations Appreciated 234·9000 121 South Niles South BeN.d 
r ............................................... 
• ~ •
! N D ACTIVITIES NIGHT 
: Monday, September6, 7p.m. to 11p.m. : 
South Bern's Largest House Wares Stores! ••• Allclubs andorganizations wanting atable !; : must sign up by Friday, September-3, 4:30p.m. : : at Student Activities :
,-INWOOD'S • •
: 1stfloor LaFortune : 
,. 4 2 5 So. Michigan St. . . . -•
t................................................J 
~---~--­

The Observer Saturday, August 28, 1982 -page 21 
...Adlllinistrators 
continuedfrom page 20 
~ Roger Valdiserrl -Following his 1954 graduation from Notre Dame, Valdiserri served briefly as an administrative assistant to Fighting Irish head football coach Terry Brennan. In 1966, after public rela­tions stints at Mercedes-Benz and the Kansas City Chiefs, he returned to his alma mater to become sports information director and ten years later added assistant athletic die· tor to his duties. Regarded as one of the best in his field, Valdiserri has received 37 awards over the past six years !rom the College Sports In· formation Directors of America for his sports publications, m.any regarded as the best in the nation. 

Roger Va/diserri 

Dr. Tom Kelly-As director of non-varsity athletics, Kelly oversees one of the nation's most extensive intramural programs for a university the size of Notre Dame. Since there are no fraternities or sororities here, dorm life and its accompanying spirit fill the bill, and this enthusiasm is often seen in interhall competi· tion. Kelly received his masters de­gree in physical education from Penn State and his masters and Ph. D. in Educational Administration from Notre Dame. After 11 years as NVA's assistant director, Kelly was elevated to his present post in the 
r.----------------1
IHOUSES FOR RENT  I  
t 717 St. Louis  t  
t  -4 to 6 bedrooms  t  
t 733 St. Louis  t  
t  -4/5 bedrooms  t  

' 
L--~~a~=2~~~~~2E:!~~---'t 
f: 
.. 

Refrigerators 
dorm room size students rates 
CALL 
TAYLOR 
RENTAL 
277-2190 
1427 N. Ironwood"""' 


(INCLUDES KEG OF BEER, TAP, 50 cups, ICE, BAG & SALES TAX-)* 
Your Choice BUDWEISER, BUDLIGHT, BUSCH, NATURAL, STROH'S 
The Beer Co. 287-1067 
Daily 8:30-4:30 Sat.10-12 
(NEW CONVENIENT HOURS) 
Michelob/Mich Light $45.00 Heineken $68.00 
*(Does not include any deposit charges) 
spring of 1979. Kelly also served as Notre Dame's bast eball coach for five seasons before committing himself full-time to the NVAoffice following the 1980 campaign. 
Astrid Hotvedt -Since becom-­ing coordinator of women's ath­letics at Notre Dame in 1974, just two years after the University began admitting women, Hotvedt has over­seen the program's growth from its infancy. Currently, Irish women ath­letes in a number of sports compete at varying levels of competition, including several in Division I. A 1969 Eastern Michigan graduate, Hotvedt received her master's de­gree from EMU in 1972. She then served as women's gymnastics coach ~t Illinois before coming to Notre Dame. 
Sharon Petro -The chairman of the physical education department is always one of the first faces an incoming freshman sees at Notre Dame, since phys ed is a required part of the freshman curriculum (except ROTC students). Petro was appointed to her present position a year ago, but she certainly is no stranger to the Notre Dame com­munity. Like Hotvedt, she also did graduate work at EMU, earning her master's in 1976. Beginning her sixth year at Notre Dame, Petro · served as women's tennis coach during the 1977 and '78 seasons before deciding to devote herself full-time to her basketball coaching dutic:;s. She had been serving double duty for two years. After the bas~et­ball team was elevated to Division I status, Petro left the ACC and returned to the Courtney Courts to coach tennis once again. 
Erin Murphy -In her third year at Saint Mary's, Murphy serves as director of athletics and recreation. A graduate of Lewis University in Joliet, Ill., she has served as assistant director of athletics and recreation and volleyball coach for SMC since 1979. Along with supervision of the college's intramural, club and var­sity programs, Murphy continues her volleyball coaching duties. Murphy plans "to refine and perfect 
the programs that we have now at all three levels. I want the community to take advantage ofthe facilities and programs we have available," and wants SMC's Angela Athletic Facility to be used for recreation and leisure as well as competitive sports. 
Timothy J. Dillon -With degrees from Slippery Rock State College, and Eastern Kentucky Uni· versity and experience as a Division I gymnastics coach at EKU, Dillon views athletics "as a part of educa· tion." Dillon is the assistant director of athletics and recreation for SMC under Murphy. Dillon will work to "get some unity through the whole community and get the program to a point where it's recognized by Saint Mary's College as a useful part ofthe college curriculum." 
r.----------------~ 
·-----------------· 
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I USED TEXTBOOKSI 25% offlistprice  II  
1 3-5 day delivery if not in stock  1  
I  Buying used texts 1-4pm mon.-Thur.  I  
I  OPEN 11-6 WEEKDAYS  I  
I  11-5 WEEKENDS  I  
1  937 So. Bend Ave. 233-2342  1  

.. 
-
-
.. --~ . _· 

The Observer Saturday, August 28, 1982 -page 22 
SURPLUS EQUIPMENT 
e 58 Wood Wine Racks--6ft. high 3ft. wide 3 or 4 shelves Use for Book case or storage. 
-
$75each e 6 Printing Calculators $15each e 3 Desks --metal or wood $50 each e 50 Beer & Liquor Signs $3 to $10 e 4-Drawer File Cabinet $75 
e1 Smith Corona manual Typewriter $40 
Warehouse Liquors corner Ironwood & Lincolnway East llr--------
287-2861 
-
-i 
! 
; 
Kotar tumor found malignant 
NEWARK, N.j. (AP)-Doug Kotar, the retired New York Giants running back, has a malignant brain tumor, pathology tests revealed yesterday. 
Doctors suspected the 31-year­old Kotar's tumor was malignant Tuesday after performing eight hours of surgery. Their preliminary findings were confirmed yesterday when laboratory analyses were com­pleted. 
"The pathology specimen report shows a malignant tumor," said Jenita McDaniel, an assistant ad­ministrator at the hospital ofthe Uni­versity of Medicine and Dentistry of NewJersey. 
"The probable source of treat­ment will be a form of radiation therapy,'' McDaniel said. She said she was unable to elaborate on what type of treatment would be used. 
Kotar, who was listed in guarded condition, has regained conscious­ness in the hospital's intensive care unit. 
Only family members were allowed to see him. The orders were enforced so strictly that even Giants owner Wellington Mara was turned away when he visited the hospital. 
The Giants have said that even though Kotar, the fourth-leading rusher in club history, is retired, they will provide the former Univer­sity of Kentucky standout with the best care they can. 
McDaniel and Giants spokesman Ed Croke said they did not know whether Kotar has been told of the seriousness ofhis condition. 
Neither neurosurgeon Roger Countee, who performed the sur­gery on Kotar, nor Giants or­thopedic specialist Kim Sloan, who assisted, could be reached for com­
ment yesterday. 
Doctors had said they were hoping to remove the tumor, but when they operated, they found a large mass shrouded in the center of the brain and concluded that to remove it would jeopardize his life. 
Kotar retired from the Giants last month because the separated right shoulder he suffered last season had not healed completely. 
The tumor was discovered last week when Kotar sought treatment for headaches that began after he was kicked in the head in a swim­ming pool. 
NFL 
weekend 
action 
By The Associated Press 
It's still the exhibition season, but Coach Ray Perkins of the New York Giants is planning to use his first string into the third quarter in tonight's game against the New York Jets, who have beaten the Giants six straight times. 
''I'd be lying if I said it wasn't sig­nificant," said Perkins, who has been at the helm for four of the losses. "I hate to lose -especially against somebody we haven't beaten. That still don't mean I'm going to go at it at all cost. I'm not going to go crazy. I can still keep it in perspective. It's still a pre-season game." 
Coach Walt Michaels of the Jets is unbeaten in the six National Foot­ball League encounters between the two rivals. Only once have they met in regular season during the streak. Overall, the Jets lead the regular season series 2-1 and have an edge in the pre-season, 7-5-1. 
"I'm treating it like it's the third pre-season game," said Michaels. "I'm trying to get people ready for the regular season." 
He pointed out, however, that he would rely heavily on veterans for a half or three-quarters of the game, which is being played at Giants Stadium in East Rutherford, N.J. 
For the Giants, winless in two pre­season starts, Scott Brunner and Phil Simms continue their battle for the No. I quarterback job. TheJets, who split two exhibitions, will count on quarterback Richard Todd for three quarters ofaction. 
In other games tonight, it's Detroit at Cincinnati, San Francisco at San Diego, Cleveland at New Or­leans, Seattle at the Los Angeles Rams, New England at Dallas, Miami at Kansas City, St. Louis at Chicago, Minnesota at Denver, Tampa Bay at Houston and Baltimore at Pitts­burgh. 
Tomorrow night, the Los Angeles -formerly Oakland . -Raiders make their debut in their new home, the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum, against the Green Bay Packers. 
Cincinnati, the AFC champion but winless in two pre-season starts, will be relying on its aerial game against Detroit, 1-1, which has moved Horace King into holdout Billy Sims' tailback spot. 
Super Bowl champion San Fran­cisco, 1-1, hopes to get more good work from tight end Eason Ramson, injured much of last season, against the high-powered Chargers. Ram­son, backup to Russ Francis, has made six grabs for 48. yards in the two pre-season games. · San Diego also stands 1-1. 


Mail this coupon and a check or money order tor the total amount to: lite Beer T-Shirt OHer P.O. Box 1153 Milwaukee. WI 53201 
---:-::::----:-:-;---:-____Small (Quantity) ____Medium 
Lite Beer Dictionary T-Shirt ($5.00 each) 
~-..,.,...,.... ____Small large (Quantity)
,, ___Medium ____X-large
!; 
1­
I r ,._ ; 

.......-----­

'Ihe~oer========================================~ 
T0 d3:xi/:.===============s=a=tu=r=d=a=y=,A=u=g=u=s=t=2s=,=1=9=s=2==P=a=g=e=2=3 
Doonesbury 
I !W'TTHINK50.51R. MAYEJC fT 50W1JOIJICA/.I.EfJ 7H& WA5 AN lSK LA~N!cH!"TO ACCJaNT. ASK111{/01!UlR7He 



The Daily Crossword 
©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 

ACROSS 1 Thewhole 
bread 5 Joslp Broz 9 Intrigue 
14 Russian log hut 15 Hebrew 
month 16 Oneat­17 Topsoil 18 Den 20 "Bunker" 
rerun 22 Classic instrument 23 lndic language 24 Singer Sumac 26 Disprove 31 Island off Scotland 33 Pershing's 
WWI forces 34 Indigo 35 Old T.V. 
show 38-were 39 Between 
Land P 


40 Antipasto Item 
41 -tum 
(made just 
right) 43 Nothing 44 APoename 47 One­
(singly) 51 "Swiss-" 55 Lineage 
56 Verdi opera 57 Maine town 58 Fleming 
and Smith 59 Comeupon 60 Baffling 
question 61 Whatcows chew 62 Gaelic 
DOWN Fragrant scent 
2 "-Mio" 3 Had­(enjoyed) 
Campus 
Notre Dame Orientation 
Here is a schedule for new student orientation: TODAY 9 a.m. -Transfer Student Breakfast. South Dining Hall. 
7:30 p.m. -Introductory Ceromony for freshmen and their parents. ACC. Freshmen required to attend. 9 p.m. -Freshmen meet with hall rectors and staff. Assigned 
Halls. 9 p.m t. -Parent Orientation. ACC. 10 p.m. -Many halls have social activities planned at this time. 
SUNDAY 8:30a.m. -Freshman Introduction to Academic Program. ACC. 
9:30 a.m. -General Guidance Session for freshmen. ACC. II a.m. -Welcome Mass and greetings from the Provost. ACC. Noon -Picnic Lunch for freshmen and parents. ACC. 
12:45 p.m. -Introduction to Student Activities by the Notre Dame Marching Band, Glee Club, and Student Body President Uoyd Burke. ACC. 
3p.m. -Mixer for Mexican-American freshmen. library Lounge. 3 p.m. -Reception for parents ofBlack freshmen. Morris Inn. 7 p.m. -Special Orientation for Freshman Women. library 
Auditorium. 9 p.m. -Freshman Dance with band Amusement Park. ACC. MONDAY -8:30a.m.·3:30p.m. -Freshman Registration. Stepan Center. .8 p.m. -Appaloosa Open Air Concen. Nonh Quad. Sponsored 
by Student Union. COMING SOON 
Watch for movies, Nazz outdoor concen, class picnics, Carney '82 picnic and games, The Toons Concen, Saint Mary's Battle of the Bands, Football Kickoff Dance, Student Union Dunes Trip, and ND and SMC activities night. 
Saint Mary's Orientation 
TODAY 

II :30 a.m. -Student-Parent Luncheon. Club­house. 3 p.m. -Student Academic Briefing. O'Laughlin Auditorium. 3:30p.m. -Student Affitirs Briefing. O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
8 p.m. -Official Welcome for New Students. Angela Athletic Facility. 
SUNDAY 

10:I5 a.m. Freshman Pre-registration Brief-i ing. O'Laughlin Auditorium. I 0: I5 a.m. -Transfer Student Briefing. Moreau r 
Uttle Theatre. I 9 p.m. -Dance. Notre Dame ACC. 
.I 
MONDAY 

8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Registration for Stu­dents. 
6 p.m. to 8 p.m. -Playfair, the ice-breaker. Dining Hall Green. 
__._ .......... 
____,_..__ 
----1
--·--...-­

Classifieds ------·­
IMPROVE YOUR GRADES• Re&eatcn catalog. 306pages 10 Z78topcs · Rusn 
S 1 00 to Bo• 2S097C los Angele$ 90025 !213)477·8226 
Mature studenT can share la1ge homewoU'I 2 olhefs laui'ICiry TV stereo utenSios and more STS&.mo plus$100depo!>11 9 month lease Call Ted 232·5843 leave nafTle and numbef 11 I am not avarlable 
FURNISHED HOUSE TWO BLOCKS FROM N 0 AND COUNTRY HOUSE 10 MINUTES FROM N 0 C.ALL 27J.3604 I 
Maos bocycle IO·speed Schw1no \/ar I s11V e•cellenlcol'ld•hon $80 232·0839 
REFRIGERA fOR FOR SALE 
SEARS COMPA.C T 6 WKS OLD 
IN PERFECT CONDITION 
S85 
CALL 239·6536 !CAMPUS MINISTRY 
OFFICEI 
LEAVE NAME & NUMBER 
COUPON Bookie• Many ras1auran1s am:~ 
emenaonmen! places 1n \Jus area Only 
$1995 \/aluedSTOOO Cai1Nanq674 
6239 
The Observer os k"IOiung lor soonomores and 1unl()l"s prelerabi~WIIhcompute•e• peuence 10 work as 1ypographll!. on I la18·1'11Qh1 Sfiii1S TM; IS a good Oppo!" 1uno1y tor CAPP ma10ts 10 get some 8K • 
I:~c~~;a::~~n~~v;,:~~:~:~~~ 
helplul bul no! requ•r&d Call B•uce or 
Tom at2~•9·5303 or apply allhe Observer 
otl•ce Jrdtloor Lafo11une 
FINANCIAL AID" We guaranleB to !tnd 
scholarsh•PS gra!IIS youre el•g•ble to 
rece1ve Appi!Callon ma1enal5 5100 


F1nanc•al Aid Fonoer Bo• 1053·CD Faor l•eld IAS25!i6 • 
.. 
.4 
1 
.. 

Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. BoxQ  
Notre Dame, Ind.  
46556  

-Enclosed is $15 for subscription through Fall1982. 
--·-Enclosed is S2'i tor subsription through Spring 1983. Name_ _.___________________________ 
Address ----------------------­
City _______________ 
State ----Zip_____ 
,_ 

Garry Trudeau 
YOU Gl/'6.41?&AU. ANP Yat IEAVIN61WYWAY. 
We HAV& 70 {)()
row 

BUSt}Jt55 W17H
HIM? 

7Hff£ PfU'/£.
\ 

-T.J. Wrobef 

4 Special fo• Mom, Dad, kids 
5 White House name 6 Potato 
state 7 Notsowlld 8 Apertures 9 Islands In 
the West Indies 
10 Italian town 
11 Sci. course 
12 Chinese port 13 Moon vehicle 
19 Add cards to a rummy meld 
21 Wanderer 
25 "Fibber McGee-" (old radio show) 
27 Smith or Jones 28 School: abbr. 

29 Ceramic piece 
30 Culbertson 31 Japanese expression 
32 Jockey's strap 33 -,amas, 
amat 35 Young boy 36 Logical 37 Excuse 
in court 42 Fltgar· ments 45 Pianist 
Claudio 46 Exc1aedi1nal'ol 48 Willow 49 Bumps 50 Related 
maternally 51 Casino game 52 Slugger 
Otis 53 Diggings 54 Myerson 
or Truman 55 Dandy 

. 


Saturday, August 28, 1982 -page 24
~orts 
Than Notre Dame 

For sports, there's no place better 
As a grizzled veteran ofthree long years here at Notre Dame, I feel I'm more than qualified to inform you as to -what to expect as you begin your college career. 
• 
If you came to Notre Dame because of its food, you've come to the wrong place. But you've probably found that out already. 

• 
Ifyou came to Notre Dame for a good education, you've come to the right place. 

• 
If you came to Notre Dame for wild parties and honky-tonk nights, you most certainly have come to the program's progress. After consecutive 4-0 setbacks to wrong place. You will find that out sooner than you'd the Hoosiers in 1979 and 1980, the Irish lost "only" 2-0 like to. last year. And despite last year's stunning 4-3, double-.. 

• 
If you came to Notre Dame to catch the best in overtime upset of perennial power St. Louis, Hunter collegiate sports action, you most certainly have come will not be satisfied until his team finally beats Indiana to the right place. and proceeds to the NCAA Tournament. This could be 



So what ifthe football team was 5-6, and the basket­the year they do it. ball team 10-1 7, last year? Notre Dame still is, and al­November 6 -Notre Dame-football at Pittsburgh. ways will be, the hotbed of college athletics in this Start saying your prayers now, folks. Pitt is everyone's universe. choice for No. 1, and why not? The Panthers have the 
Every year, something new and intriguing seems to hands-down Heisman Trophy favorite in quarterback happen regarding Notre Dame sports, which makes it Dan Marino (now that Herschel Walker is out until Oc­·quite a challenge for The Observer to cover them be­tober), and have 19 of 21 starters back from last year's cause you really never know what's going to happen No. 2 and Sugar Bowl victorious team. This one could next. be ugly. But, then again, the Irish haven't been par­
The past three years have abounded with memorable ticularly kind to No. 1 teams in the past, have they? sports events: two last-second football victories over December 1 -Notre Dame basketball vs. Kentucky Michigan; the 1981 Sugar Bowl; the rise and fall ofGerry at the ACC. Finally. After years and years of "neutral" 
Faust; basketball upsets of then-undefeated DePaul and site games between these two teams in the not-so­Virginia; the rise-from-ashes of the hockey team, which neutral site of Louisville, Ky., Digger Phelps at last gets was nearly disbanded in 1980 only to come within a the Wildcats where he wants them -in the dreaded whisker of an NCAA Tournament bid two years later; ACC, a veritable Hell Hole for visiting teams. The Irish and the emergence of the soccer and women's basket­will be overmatched again, but with the help of NO's bali teams, two formerly insignificant minor sports "sixth man" (namely the student body), they should teams that have risen to become championship caliber make a game ofit. Division I squads. February 11,1983-Notre Dame women's basket­
Looking ahead to the coming school year with these ball vs. Louisiana Tech at the ACC. After only two years points in mind, here are some dates to remember that of Division I status, Coach Mary DiStanislao took her could play a major role in shaping Notre Dame's athletic team last year to the brink ofan NCAA Tournament bid 

future: 

September 18 -Notre Dame football vs. Michigan, in the first night game in the 52-year existence ofNotre Dame Stadium. Unless you've been on drugs for the past year, you've no doubt heard all about this one. Even if you didn't know, you had to at least wonder why those funny-looking things that look like giant fly-swatters were doing hovering over the stadium the past two days. ABC will televise this historic event in prime time; translated, that means more exposure to potential recruits and, of course, more money. If things go smoothly, this may open a Pandora's Box full of pos­sibilities for the future ofthe NCAA on TV. 
September 24 -Notre Dame soccer at Indiana. Since gaining varsity status in 1977, Coach Rich Hun­ter's teams have surprised many with their immediate success. Each season, Hunter uses the .match with always-tough Indiana as a yardstick of the soccer -quite an accomplishment, indeed. Now it's time to take on the big boys, er ... I mean, big girls. Louisiana Tech is the reigning NCAA champion, and has lost just once in its last 65 or so games entering this season. At this stage of development, a win for the Irish is not necessary; something much more important is at stake here. This game, on a Friday night when the men's team is out of town, will be a good indication as to just how widely-accepted women's basketball is, or isn't, at Notre Dame. If the usual paltry crowd of 100 shows up that night, even withfree admission, Mary D. will know that she still has a ways to go and more than a few sexist minds to change. 
All ofthis is just for starters, and there are bound to be many other highlights and lowlights as the year progresses. 
But one thing's for sure. Ifyou're looking for exciting sports action, you've come to the right place. 
Sports facilities --something for everyone 
By DAVE DZIEDZIC 
Associate Sports Editor 

The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses have the facilities for al­most every athletic event im­aginable. Whether you are a fierce competitor, a physical fitness buff, or just a casual weekend athlete, you should find the facilities necessary to keep you satisfied. 
The Rockne Memorial Building, located at the west end of the South Quad, is the center of Notre Dame's physical education program. The huge brick structure contains bas­ketball courts, handball-qcquetball
.. courts, a weight room, a light ap­paratus room, a swimming pool, and the golfpro shop. Use ofthe facilities in "The Rock" is reserved for all Notre Dame students and faculty membe<S upon presentation of a University ID card. Closing time is 11 p.m. daily. Stepan Center, which is the site of Notre Dame's fabled pep rallies, is located directly west of the towers. Many of the interhall sports are con­ducted in the Stepan area There are basketball courts and several fields for football, soccer, rugby and softball. Inside Stepan Center are basketball and volleyball courts, 
,.... 
open for league and recreational play. Detailsjor availability of the facility may be obtained by calling the office of Student Activities at 
239-7308. 

The doubled-domed Athletic and Convocation Center, located east of the Stadium, contains more cubic feet of space than the Houston Astrodome. Besides the commercial and varsity events, the Department ofNon-Varsity Athletics has its home in the ACC. Within the structure are handball-racquetball courts, squash weather permits and are free of charge to students. The varsity teams, however, always receive priority. 
Six outdoor tennis courts are available outside Regina Hall and three more courts are outside the A.ngela Athletic Facility on St. Mary's campus. 
On the west end of Notre Dame's campus is the 18-hole, 6,500-yard Burke Memorial golf course. The 

Campus athletic adminstrators are profiled on pages 20 and 21 
courts, and courts-for tennis-and vot-=­leyball. One may also take advantage ofthe ice rink, boxing room and run­ning track. The ACC is open until 10 
p.m. during the fall and spring seasons, and until 11 p.m. in the win­ter. 
The Courtney Tennis Center, -which is located behind the ACC, was the sight ofthe 1971 NCAA Ten­nis Tournament. That event, still considered the finest collection of collegiate tennis talent ever as­sembled, featured Jimmy Connors, Roscoe Tanner, Brian Gottfreid, Dick Stockton, Harold Solomon, Eddie Dibbs and Jeff Borowiak. The 24 courts are open whenever 
course is open umil--iate-fall and reopens in early spring. Green fees are $2.50 for students, faculty and 
staff.  Alumni  can  golf  for  $5.50  
during  the  week,  and  $6.50  on  
weekends.  

Outdoor basketball is a popular pastime during fall and spring. There are several outdoor courts available for student use. Two courts are located behind Lyons Hall, two be­hind the Hammes Bookstore, and eight in front ofStepan Center. All of these courts are the sites of the early rounds of Notre Dame's legendary Bookstore Basketball Tournament, which sweeps the campus during the spring. 
Facilities for outdoor track and field events, including a quarter­mile running track, are located at Cartier Field. The site ofmost varsity football practices, Cartier is located north-east ofthe ACC. 
Saint. Mary's Angela Athletic Facility, located across from McCandless Hall, is open from 9 a.m. until 11 p.m. Monday through Satur­day, and on Sunday from 1 p.m. until 11 p.m. During Notre Dame's home football games, however, AAF is closed fi-om 11 a.m. unti16 p.m. The facility contains two tennis courts, two racquetball courts, gymnastics and exercise equipment and areas for both basketball and volleyball. 
The AAF may be used only by a SMC student, faculty or administra­tion member. Notre Dame students may also use the AAF, but a SMC stu­dent must be present and the ratio of SMC to ND students must be ap­proximately equal. 
Aswimming pool is located inside 
Regina Hall and is open from noon to 
1 p.m. Monday through Friday, 4 
p.m. 
to midnight Monday through Wednesday, and from 4 p.m. until11 

p.m. 
Thursday and Friday. Sau:~rday the pool is open from noon to 11 

p.m. 
and Sunday from noon until midnight. _ 


So there you have it -something for just about everyone. Enjoy. 
127 games, 26 less than Brock needed when he stole 118 with the St. Louis Cardinals in 1974. 
Henderson walked on four pitches with two out in the third against Brewers' starter Doc Medich. Medich threw four pickoff attempts at first ba~e. twice almost catching Henderson as he dived back into the base. 
Then, on the first pitch to A's third baseman Wayne Gross, Henderson broke for second. The Brewers, an­ticipating the steal attempt, called a pitchout. 
Catcher Ted Simmons released the ball quickly but his throw to shortstop Robin Yount was slightly to the right ofsecond base. Hender­son was called safe by umpire Mike 
~C::~Y-
Murray on Rickey --page 18 
Many m me crowd of more than 35,000, realizing they had just wit­nessed history, rose to their feet and applauded Henderson. Several ofthe Brewer players, including Medich and Simmons, extended their hands to Henderson after he got to his feet and pulled the second base bag from its moorings. Henderson held the bag high in a triumphant gesture. 
The game was held up for a few minutes as photographers rushed onto the field. The second base bag was formally presented to Hender­son by Brock in ceremonies at home plate. 
Henderson, successful in 75 per­cent of his steal attempts this year, tied the record in the first inning of Thursday night's game. A pickoff throw by Brewers' left-handed pitcher Mike Caldwell trapped Hen­derson a good 1 0 feet off first base. 
Henderson later added to his record when he stole second again in the sixth. 
MILWAUKEE (AP)-Rickey Hen­derson of the Oakland A's stole his way into the baseball record book last night when he swiped second base in the third inning for his 119th steal of the season in a game against the Milwaukee Brewers to break Lou Brock's major league, single-season mark. 
Henderson broke the record in 







