.Mardi Gras -page 6
' ' 

VOL. XVII, NO. 96 an independent srudem newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's MONDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1982 
Burke, Yonchak push for coDIDiunication 
By GREG KOSSE 
Neu•s Staff 
Newly-elected student body president and vice-presidt·nt, Lloyd Burke and Bob Yonl·hak, bdievc the poor turnout at the recent student 
elections rdlccts the problem of communication between student governmt·nt and tht· students. In an interview yesterday, they said the 42 pen.Tnt turnout is a signal to them that student government needs more contact with the student body. 
Burke «.:ited two problems for the low numbt·r of voters: students nut being propnly informt·d and stu· lknt apathy. lie said that "either tht·y (the studt·nts) didn't know or they don't care. I think it's both." lie thinks that the elections were not publicized enough and that the problem included "student govcrn­mt·nt, obud, The Obsen1er, and the radio Mation." 
Burke and Yond1ak said the low turnout has made them even more aware of the need for better com· help us." 
They will take office on April 1 and until then they arc in a transition period with the present student gnvcrnmcnt. 
Other focuses for next year in­clude the thrust for more concern about small issues as well as the long term big issues like a student social complex and kegs. Burkt· said he would like to see lights installed on the outdoor basketball courts if studies prove that they will be used. 
Also if the proposal of spraying water on the basketball courts ncar Lyons during cold weather is ac­cepted, then if lights were installed people could icc skate there all the time. The facility could then be used year round. 
Bob Yonchak summed up their present post-victory feelings, "We need the student support through­out the year without a doubt. Two people can beat they're heads against the wall; 2,000 can get some­thing done." 

The Mardi Gras marathoners relax and enjoy the also included a quick step around the basketball humor of impressionist Dan Osborn during one of court at halftime of the N.C. State game. (Photo by their hourly breaks. The twelve-hour dance-a-thon CherylErtelt) 
munkation betwct·n student government and the Mudents. They plan to do a number of things to im· prove the contact. Burke said one way would he to attend "a Hall Council Meeting in every dorm at least once a semester." In this way they could st·e more students who could tell more people about the work they are doing. Burke said once he can get more students who know about studt·nt government then he can get them to care. He wants to "talk to the students as in­
dividuals." 
When asked if they arc consider· lng the losing tickets in their cabinet appointments, Burke replied, "Just by virtue of running they arc in· tcrcsted.... We arc gonna ask them to 

Close vote expected 

Ford workers skeptical about pact 
DEARBORN, Mich. (AP) -Ford Motor Co. and the United Auto Workers have agreed on a tentative contract granting limited job security and profit-sharing in ex­change for/ employee concessions, and now must convince workers to go along. 
"They (union officials) are going to have to do a lot ofexplaining and convincing at most plants," said Robbie Robinson, UAW collective bargaining representative at Ford's Wixom Plant in suburban Detroit. 
He said yesterday that he expects 

a "close" vote. 
The tentative 31-month agree­ment, announced late Saturday after I 3 straight days of negotiations, in­cludes guaranteed income for laid­off workers with high seniority and an experimental program at two plants where most workers will have "an equivalent of lifetime employ­
ment."  
In  exchange,  Ford's  170,000  
autoworkcrs would give  up wage  
hikes  and  eight  paid  personal  

holidays during the life of the con­tract and forego cost-ot:living pay· 
194protestors arrestedin Poland 
VIENNA. Austria ( AP) -Polish martial law authorities arrested 194 people in· the westnn industrial city uf Poznan alter a uowd shouted anti-government slogans and rl'fused to disperse Saturday, Poland's olfkial PAP news agency ~aid yt·Merday. 
A broad<.'ast moniton·d in Vienna said 162 of those arrested were "punished" by misdemeanor courts following the disturbance. The broadcast did not elaborate on the disturbance or punishments and did not report any injuries. 
Saturday marked the two-month anniversary of martial law in the country. The Comm t unist authori­ties had deployed tanks, troops and riot police in a massive show offorce 
Observerelects Monk next editor-in -chief 
Michael Monk, a junior trom Denville, N.J., was elected The Obser11er editor in-chid Friday ti1r the 19H2·H3 s<.·hool year. He will take oftke :\-tar. 22. 
"I want to make: The Obseroer the bt·st u>llcge daily newspaper possible," he said. "I plan to do this by building upon what we have accomplished so far this year and also by exploring dif· 

fercnt areas." 
Michael Monk 

"Our main concern is to serve the students of Notre Dame and Monk has served as a design Saint Mary's. We plan to do every­editor and sports writer for The thing we can to make that pos­Obseroe,., and currently serves as sible," he added. production manager. 
to discourage demonstrations. 
Yesterday's report by PAP comes two weeks after a riot in the north­ern port of Gdansk, where the now­suspended independent Solidarity union was formed. The government said at least 14 people were hurt in that riot and 250 people seized. Gdansk was sealed off and martial law restrictions tightened. The military rulers took foreign jour­nalists on an escorted tour to the Baltic port city last week in an effort to show them the city is calm. 
PAP said that as a result of the dis­turbance in Poznan on Sunday, the provincial defense committee or· dcred gasoline sales banned and theaters dosed down today. 
The bans on motor fuel sales and large public gatherings were lifted earlier in Poland. Doctors and far· mers with special permits were ex· emptcd from the new restrictions in Poznan, the agency said. 
PAP said the Poznan demonstrators converged in hlc center of the city and were "provoked by leaflets inciting to demonstrations." It said the crowd "shouted hostile slogans." 
Police moved in and arrested the demonstrators, mostly high school and university students, when the crowd ignored orders to disperse. 
ments until September 1983. 
lfratitlcd by Ford's UAW workers, including union members who arc laid off, the new contract would replace the current three-year pact that is set to expire Sept. 14 and would last until Sept. I 4, 1984. The vote will be conducted over the next few weeks. 
Neither the union nor the com· pany would estimate the savings to the No. 2 U.S. automaker, which says it lost more than S I billion last year. 
Analysts estimated yesterday a savings of S2 to S3 per man-hour for Ford. Ford says its workers' average hourly pay rate was S21.50 last year. 
"Ifwe didn't think it was good for the Ford workers, we wouldn't have reached an agreement," UAW Vice President Don Ephlin said in announcing the tentative pact Satur­day night. 
The UAW reopened contract negotiations with both Ford and General Motors Corp. on Jan. I I as both automakers sought to lower labor costs in order to better com­pete with foreign automakers. 
The talks at GM collapsed Jan. 28 without agreement. Union officials had said they feared they could not sell the package to the rank and file in light of a narrow vote of the uni­on's GM council in favor of conces· sions. GM reported a S333 .million profit last year. 
Ford Chairman Philip well said the agreement "should ... he the catalyst for restoring the company's compctitivenc:ss," hut he did notes­timate the impact on car prices. 
Robinson said he was not satisfied with tht· proposal because "there was no fact-11nding of Ford's books" to prove the claim of heavy losses. 
Minority students adjust to Notre Dame 
By DAVID SARPHIE 
News Assistant 
Editor's note: The jiJllowing is the first ofa 2-part series -jimmy is a nineteen year old black student at the Un iversi~y ofNotre Dame. When he arrived for the beginning ofhis freshman year, he quickly learned of the isolation facing many minorities at this institution. 
"When I discovered I was going to. be living with a white guy, I was hap­py at the opportunites we would 
have  to  learn  about  each other's  
culture," he recalls.  
Unfortunately  for  Jimmy,  this  

feeling of excitement was not mutual. "I don't think the guy's mot­her knew exactly how to handle the situation, because the first thing she asked me was whether I play foot­ball. I found out she didn't want her son living with a black guy. I was lucky, however, because down the hall lived another black guy who agreed to switch rooms and resolve the difficulties." 
Otht·r studt·nts at Notre Dame arc not so lucky. Many minority stu· dents experience a culture shtKk when they arrive at this predominately white, upper middle class university. According to Harry! Ammons, president of the Black Cul­tural Arts Council, many blacks un­dergo an an·ulturation process. "Many who aren't used to living with whites must adapt to a different life­style," he said. "They t1nd that there are adjustments to he made." 

Ammons noted that part of the problem results from a lack of ex­posure of the black culture in white communities. "A lot of whites just don't know how the blacks live," he said. The social events pose another 
See FOCUS, page 4 


1982 Fall Semester -MEXICO 


News Brie!§ 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
Students of dramaat the University of Notre Dame and at Saint Mary's College will replace a planned Shakespearean comedy during the spring semester with a program of protest over the imposition of martial law in Poland. The demonstration ofsup­port for the Solidarity movement is tentatively scheduled for Apr. 23, the opening date for the cancelled performance. The protest was planned by the Department of Communication and Theater after Polish authorities apparently denied permission for travel to America for the play's director, Kasimierz Braun, winner of the Badge of Merit for National Culture in his native land. The noted professor of drama and author of several books has not commun­icated with the department officials since martial law began Dec. 13 and statements by Polish consulate officials have been described as misleading. Preliminary plans for the protest call for a talk by a Polish dissident ofinternational renown and the possible showing ofone or two anti-Soviet films, Man ofIron and Man ofMarble. -The Ob­
server 
Augustina Vashchenko, a 52-year-old Pentecos­talist who started a hunger strike seven weeks ago in Moscow with her daughter at their U.S. Embassy refuge, said yesterday she has ended her fast. She said she decided to call off the protest because her 30-year-old daughter Lydia had safely returned to the family's hometown in Siberia and she expected authorities to approve the family's emigration application. The Vaschenko women and five other members of the fundamentalist Christian group raced past Soviet guards into the embassy compound in june 1978. They said they were victims of religious persecution and were granted humanitarian asylum. The two women stopped taking solid food Christmas Day to protest what they called reluctance by U.S. officials to press for their emigration. daughter was sent to a Soviet hospital last month after her health began to deteriorate. She called off her protest Feb. I and was released last Friday. Mrs. Vaschenko and the six other Pentecostalists are still living in the· embassy basement pen­ding Soviet action on their exit visas. -AP 
A woman scattered about $8,600 in cash to 
more than 100 shoppers in a small Tokyo department store yester­day and yelled "If you want money, you can have it!" police said. A guard and shoppers on the fifth floor collected the money and handed it back to the woman, saying "please don't do this here," police said. Undeterred, she ran down to the second floor and started flinging more money at startled shoppers, they said. Wit­nesses told police the woman, about 40, ran out of the store before they reached the scene. They said they did not know why the woman wanted to give her money away. -AP 
Supreme Courtjustice Louis Brandeis paid more than 550,000 to law professor Felix Frankfurter, later a high court justice himself, to further Brandeis' public policy goals, The New York Times reported yesterday. According to a study of letters ex­changed by the two men, Brandeis had strong opinions on political issues but felt constrained by judicial ethics from engaging directly in extrajudicial activities. Each year from 1916 through 1938 Bran· deis deposited as much as 53,500 in a special "joint endeavors for the public good" fund he set up for frankfurter, The Times said. Such a relationship was "unprecedented in Supreme Court history," according to Bruce Murphy, who discovered the retainer agree­ment. -AP 
The AFL-CIO's executive council, opening its an­nual midwinter meeting, is expected to demand new initiatives by the Reagan administration to put Americans back to work. Federa­tion President Lane Kirkland and other union leaders say the ad­ministration has dismantled programs aimed at helping those on unemployment lines at a time when joblessness is soaring to post­World War II record levels. Unemployment -8.5 percent last month -is expected to be a major topic when Vice President George Bush appears before the policymaking body here tomorrow. On Sunday, the AFL-CIO's four million-member Building and Trades Department announced plans for a 5500 million job-creation program tied to investment of union pension funds. Unemployment in the construction industry alone is twice the national average. ­
AP 
The first pictures taken by a special camera 
snaked into the steam generator of the idle Ginna nuclear power plant in Rochester, New York have shown nothing out of the ordi­nary plant officals said yesterday. "We haven't found any more dented tubes, foreign objects," said Richard Peck, spokesman for the Rochester Gas and Electric Corporation. Technicians found last week that several generator tubes had been plugged because of some suspected weaknesses and several others were damaged, Peck said. And he said two pieces of metal were on the floor of the gener­ator and part ofa steam pipe was missing. The damaged tubes are in the same area where a steam pipe ruptured jan. 25 releasing a small amount ofradioactive steam into the atmosphere. -AP 
Mostly cloudy today and breezy and mild. 
Highs in the mid to upper 30s. Mostly cloudy and continued· mild tonight. Lows in the low to mid 20s. Partly cloudy tomorrow with highs in the mid t to upper 30s. -AP 
Monday, February 15, 1982 -page 2 

Moving on 


When May arrives you probably won't find too many seniors lamenting commencement. After all, it's the event we've anticipated after four years. Through all the lectures, tests, papers and seven sets offinal exams, May 14-16 is the goal. 
Or is it? 
A degree is an excellent start, but it's just the begin­ning. "Colleges," Ralph Waldo Emerson states in "The American Scholar," "... have their indispensable office -to teach elements. But they can only serve us when they aim not to drill, but to create; when they gather from far every ray of various genius to their hospitable halls, and by the concentrated fires, set the hearts of their youth on flame. Thought and knowledge are natures in which apparatus and pretension avail no­thing. Gowns and pecuniary foundations, though of towns ofgold, can never countervail the least sentence or syllable ofwit." 
If you're one of the lucky seniors that's snagged employment, congraduations. But for the rest of us (myself included), the transition is just beginning. Like Robert Frost in his poem "Reluctance," "The heart is still aching to seek,/ But the feet question 'Whither?'" 
One of the biggest problems for seniors is that "it's not all laid out for them for the first time," explains Mary Theis, assistant direc­tor of Saint Mary's Counsel· ing and Career Center. Some seniors worry, she states, be­cause it's time for them to "take over" and decide the course of their lives, instead of allowing someone else to do it for them. "Having to decide is a big part of the anxiety. Many times in your life you won't know what you're doing, but this is the first." 
The poor economy is also causing graduates to be less hopeful and more anxious. Leaving one's friends and "somehow figuring how to do it alone" can be "pretty scary," according to Theis. 
Incorporating who we were three years ago and our present selves; personal experiences accumuated throughout life at either Notre Dame or Saint Mary's; and four years of classrooms, textbooks and tests is tough. It's all coming to an end soon (too soon for some, not soon enough for others) but what happens then? 
What happens when you come home to the empty apartment or, perhaps, to your wife or husband ifyou're planning marriage? Maybe graduate school will occupy the next two to four years for you, or perhaps, either the Peace Corps or Holy Cross Associates program is the next step. 
When you really stop and think, we've been condi­tioned all our lives to finish school and get the "good and activities that interest you and you'll meet new people, make friends." 

It's nice to know the social aspects oflife beyond col­lege work out, but what about putting four years of academics into use? Were the core courses (the positively absolute "requirements" a student must take or suffer death from his respective institution) worth it? Did we make the right chocies, pick the right major, study hard enough, learn something to use out there? Too many times I've listened to friends who have graduated tell me "I don't use anything I learned in school" in their present jobs. 
I'd hate to think I've spent four years at something that I'm not going to use for the rest of my life. At one point or another, college students decide to spend four 
years (perhaps four of the most productive) of their lives in training and hope the benefits will outweigh the cost. 1think they do. 
College does separate you from the mainstream of life for awhile. You're poor, maybe out of touch with most of your prime-time television shows and spend a lot of time studying the thoughts and theories of people you've never heard of (and may never care to again), but it's the overall ef­fect ofcollege that c t ounts. It's the professors that made you think instead of just memorize for the next test; the people you meet and 
share friendships with; the parties and formals (both good and bad) and clubs you've joined. They all combine to make college the total experience its supposed to be, instead ofa list of isolated incidents. 
"The world is too much with us, late and soon, Getting and spending, we lay waste our powers: Little we see in Nature that is ours; We have given our hearts away, a sordid boon!" 

poet William Wordsworth exclaims. His warning is an accurate one, too. Even though graduation is a little over three months away, it's not too early to begin plan­ning one's transition to life away from either ND or SMC. It's time to put four years to use. 
Observer notes._______, 
Editorial Hoar<l

==IbeDbser:ver== 
Editor-in-Chief............................. .]ohn McGrath :tounded November 3, 1966 
Executive News Editor.. ..... Kelli Flint Sports Editor............................. Skip Desjardin The Observer 1S an independent newspaper published by the students of the News Editor............................. David Rickabaugh Photo Fditor.........................................lohn Macor 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily SMC Executive Editor........... Mary Agnes Carey Editorials Editor......................,Anthony Walton reflect the policies of the administration o_f either. ins~itution. The news i~ ~eport­~MC News Editor......................Cathy Domanico Peatures t:.attor .........................Gregory Sw1ercz ed as accurately and as objectively as poSSibl~. Edtt?r~als represent the opmtor:t of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentanes, optmons and letters are th~ vtews Department Managers of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the commumty, and 
Business Manager .........................Rich Coppola Production Manager ................... Michael Monk 
· the free expression of varying opinions on campus, tluough letters, i5 eocounged. 
Controller .............................................joe Mulflur Circulation Manager .............Tom MacLennan Advertising Manager .......................Chris Owen Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 4655o 

The Observer Monday, February 15, 1982 -page 3 
Board discusses llleals, parietals 
By MARY MciNERNEY the opportunity to review their tributed this week. Nl!wsStaff schedule:, study habits and peer Sign-ups for the free university group to t1nd the optimal plan." Gas­classes begins today through tomor­
The: Saint Mary's Board of Govc:r­sman will meet with the Food Com­row at the Student Activities office. nann· met last night to discuss the: mittee: for more revisions of the Subjects that will be offered are In­proposal for a new mt·al plan and the proposal. troduction to Hiking and Camping, upcoming parktals survey. Fencing, Social Concerns, Practicum 
Quc:stions for the: new parietals in Religious Experience, and a Social The prc:sc:nt mc:al plan has bc:c:n survey were submitted and revised 
Ecology Film Series. undc:r c:valuation recently, and 
hy board members. Student Body Other issues the: board discussed Trt·asurn Ann Gassman proposc:d 10 Prc:sident Eileen Murphy said, "The: were some of the: mailing and the hoard a new color-codc:d system tlrst paric:tals survey revealed that publicity problems 'faced by the for a new mc:al plan. The: plan would 80 percent of the Saint Mary's stu­members, further revisions of the 
allow students to pay t(Jr only the: dc:nts feel the: need for the parktals Student Government Manual, and number of mc:als they eat. Gassman issue to he: re-evaluated." The: cur­the upcoming Class and Student said, "This system will givt• students 
rent survey will he prepared and dis-Bodv elections on Feb. 18th. 
Nigeria trip 

John Paul IIordains 100 priests 
KADUNA, Nigeria (AP) -Pope the Mass had trekked miles across Nigeria's coastal capital of Lagos, John Paul II ordained I00 pric:sts on the red clay hills ofnorthern Nigeria. was first visited by a Belgian Francis­a bamboo altar in Kaduna, "City of can missionary 300 years ago. It now the Crocodiles," in Nigeria's Moslem The turnout on the third day of has a native archbishop, the: Most 
hc:artland Sunday and pleaded for John Paul's eight-day tour of Africa Rev. Peter Jatou, a member of the more recruits to the: Roman Catholic attested to the growth ofthe Church Kaje tribe. priesthood. in the: Islamic stronghold, where: The once crocodile-infested 
He met later with government of­missionaries now push the slogan, Kaduna River -its name: means ficial'! and Moslem religious lt:aders "The North is no longt:r Moslem." "crocodile" in Hausa now in an historic interfaith encounter, Of Nigeria's 90 million people -supplies the power for a Peugeot car telling them: "all ofus live under the some 30 million are Moslems. assembly plant, six textile mills and a sun of the one merciful God." Roman Catholics make up between brewery. 
A swaying, hand-clapping con­5 million and 6 million ofthe 18 mil­gregation estimated by the News lion Christians.. The remainder Agency of Nigc:ria to number more pursue traditional animist and than I million jammed Murtala ancestor-worshipping practices. 
Business 
Mohammed Square to hear the pon­Church spokesmen say Catholic 
tiff. Church officials put the number Church membership in the north is 
at SOO,OOO, however. now nearing the: million mark, 

lecture setfor 
"Saanuku?" the pope asked the spread out among 10 dioceses. 
chet·ring throng, using the language The pontiff, 61, on his first over­
of the llausa tribe to say, "How arc st:as trip since the attempt on his life tomorrow 
you?" in May, seemed to be holding up 
But the pontiff was not the only well in the high temperatures, wil­
Harold C. Livesay, Chairman of linguistic showman. The choir ting humidity and the choking dust 
the History Department, at Virginia 
saluted the Polish-born pope by blowing in from the Sahara. Polytechnic and State University 
chanting "Stolar" -Polish for" May A huge "Solidarity" banner -for will give a lecture Feb. 16 (Tues.) at 
you live 100 years." They sang the indc:pendent Polish union -8 P.M. in the University of Notre 
hymns in llausa and in English. was stretched across the square to Dame's Center for Continuing 
"I appeal to the people of God to gn:et the: pope, with others rc:ading, Education. be: mindful of thc: great need to en­"Holy Fathc:r, We Are With You." A Livesay's lecture, c:ntitled courage: vocations to the priesthood dc:lcgation of Polish water engineers "Business Management: the and rc:ligious life." the pope said. had travclc:d 80 miles from Kano to Devdopment of a Profession," will Thousands of those who chantc:d sec the: pontiff. concern the changing role: of busi­and drummed an African vc:rsion of Kaduna, 400 miles northc:ast of ness in American history. 
THE WORLD IS YOUR CAMPUS 
Gain a full semester's credits while you 
SAIL AROUND THE WORLD! 
Special Slide Presentation February 16, 1982 
Two World itineraries ore offered each academic year, sponsored by University of Pittsburgh. Spring voyage aalls March 4, 1982 from Ft. Lauderdale· Spain, Greece, Egypt, 
lsroel, Indio, Sri lanka, Philippines, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Korea, Japan. Fall voyage sails Sept. 8, 1912 from Seattle • Japan, Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Indio, Sri lanka, Egypt, Israel, Greece, Spain. 
More than 60 university courses, with in-port and voyage-related emphasis. Faculty from University of Pittsburgh and other leading universities, augmented by visitipg area experts. Optional tours, including special tours into the People's Republic of China, available. 
Participation is open to qualified students from all accredited colleges and universities. Semester at Sea admits students without regard to color, race or creed. The S.S. Universe is fully air-conditioned, 18,000 tons, registered in Liberia and built in America. 
FOR A FREE COLOR BROCHURE, WRITE: SEMESTER AT SEA, UCIS, UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH, FORBES QUADRANGLE, PITTSBURGH, PA 15260, OR CALL toll free (800) 8~· 0195 (In California call (71~) 771·6590). 

... _,>• 
Keenan Hall residents spent all Friday afternoon construct­ing this hippo snow sculpture. (Photo by Cheryl Ertelt) 


Brothers of Holy Cross Vocation Counseling On Campus 
How Jo I know if the Lord is callin.~ me? 
+ 
How does Brotherhood fulfill my need for prayer, commurtity sharing anJ sen,ice? 

r How do I pray to discern the Lord's call? 

+ 
\Vhat are the Brothers' ministries? 

+ 
How do Brothers responJ to the neeJs of our Jay: committment to Jesus in the poor, oppresseJ , social justice? 


... What is the formation program for the Brothers of Holy Cross? 
For information or to talk about thes~ tbin~s, fi~elfree to call on me. 
Br. David Baltrinic, CSC Vocation Director 103 Columba Hall phone: 239-7830 



and SAINT MARY'S 



Goafather's Pizza® 


Order the EXPRESS DELIVERY: 
Medium pepperoni, sausage, or combo and receiue quicker seruice. 
IIIUIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII...IIIU.............MINU.... 
Driver has fresh pizza for sale on truck. 

iJB.S. 
Mon.-Thurs. and Sun. 5 PM· 10:30 PM Fri. and Sat. 5 PM · 12:30 AM

..................... __.........,,.___._______________________. 
The Observer Monday, February 15, 1982 -page 4 
...Focus 

the administration is not. both the whites and blacks make a
continuedfrom page 1 
"Generally, the necessary tools are sustained effort to reach out to each problem for black students at Notre in place here at Notre Dame. We other." Dame. Because a majority ofcampus have an active recruiting program There have been advances recent-social events are geared toward the for minority students, and the neces· ly which seem to point to an in­white students, blacks often feel ex· sary organizations are here," he creased awareness ofwhite students eluded socially. noted. "Active" may be a misleading for the problems ofthe blacks. These 
The function of the BCAC is to al· term for the recruiting program, as problems, however, are far from leviate such problems. "The BCAC minorities comprise only three per­solved. The same black student was formed to help black students cent of the student population at noted, "I went to a one man play adjuM to campus life and to bring Notre Dame. several weeks ago which described black culture into Notre Dame life," If any advances are going to be some of the problems experienced Ammons said. To accomplish this, made in the area of interracial rela­by blacks over the course ofhistory. the BCAC sponsers plays, movies, tions, the students themselves are There were several whites in the and parties which are open to all stu· going to have to put forth the effort. audience, but they didn't seem to dents on campus. "The BCAC has As one black student said, "The ad­grasp all the subtleties and un­been very valuable to the black stu· ministration can try and implement dertones of what was happening dent body," he explained. "1 only all the programs in the world, but onstage. At the same time, I was wish it could be of more value to the these will never be successful unless laughing just to keep from crying." white community." 
Darlene Sowell, the Interracial Concerns Commissioner for the 

Congressional hearings held

Notre Dame Student Government, agreed with Ammons. "The BCAC encourages whites to attend func· 
on coal industry regulations

tions, but often the results aren't very satisfying." The hesitance of WASHINGTON (AP) -A house Carter administration, the agency's white students to attend black panel will hold two days of hearings inspection staff has dropped from parties may be due, in part, to dif· this week on the government's 1,400 to about 1,200, resulting in 
~*****************************~~+-ferent types of parties. Whereas policing of the coal industry in the 5,000 fewer underground mine in­white parties tend to revolve around wake of 35 deaths in the nation's spections last year than in 1980.
* *
* * drinkng and socializing, black mines the last two months.* * parties involve much more dancing, More congressional hearings are Reagan announced Feb. 6 that he~ IBI1SRMI1R ~ according to Sowell. "Regardless of planned next week. And, even the was lifting a hiring freeze in the* *' the reasons for the separation, I Reagan administration is responding agency. To begin hiring new inspec­* * think both ends, both the black and to the recent outcry over the climb· tors, he released S2 million ina interested ln 'he ! the white, have to extend their ing toll by reversing itself and federal mine safety funds he had 
hands and give of each other. Right seeking more money to help protect refused to spend this year. now, it seems the minorities are the nation's miners.!* OOLLI&I or BUSIBBSS ~ * trying harder than the whites." "We cannot live with what is The White House said Reagan also 
* * 
One of the ways the black com· happening," Sam Church, president will ask Congress to increase the munity is "extending its hand" is of the United Mine Workers union, agency's spending by $15 million in ~ ADMIBIS!U!IOB ~ through the Black Cultural Arts Fes· said last month in callingfor the con­the 1983 fiscal year. 
tival, which is continuing through gressional investigations.
* * 
the middle of March. Sowell, who In 1981, 153 miners were killed in
* * 
heads the Festival, described it as a job-related accidents, the highest
* are lnvi,ed 'o aUend a 'alk and discu11ion** Students
"chance to present a positive image since 1975. Sixteen already have* * of black culture through plays, died in the mines this year.
* * 
; period by Vincent R. Raymond : poetry, and lectures." UMW officials have charged there mustmove 
The Festival, however, will not in is a direct connection between the* * itself end the isolation that many mounting fatalities and the recent! Associate Dean : minority students experience. personnel policies ofthe Mine Safety cars today 
Who, then, is to blame for this and Health Admimstration, the
* * Either move your car or dig it out.
isolation? federal watchdog of the under·
* * That's the word from Security
According to Edward Blackwell, ground coal industry.
! in 1ihe College of Business Administration. : Director Glenn Terry who says
director of Minority Student Affairs, Beginning in the last year of the
* * 
* *
* * !* MOBDAY riB. 15 BOOM 122 * ~ * * 
* * 
:* Bayes Healy Center !* * *
*
* 7:80 p.m. * 
* * 
* * 
* * 
'********************************~ 
r 

,..,,,.,,..,,..,.,,..,..,,...,..,,,..,,,,,,,,,,..,,,.,,,,,,.,,,....,,.,,,,,..,nan•n•n••••••••••n"••••••n••••n•• 
Cogimo'g 'ddoUt CDegign 
18461 St. Rd. 23 South Bend. call for appointment 2 77-18 75 
-shampoo, conditioner, cut style Guys-$7.00 (reg. 13.00) Girls-$10.00 (reg. 18.00) 
....................................................................................................................... 





ARMY ROTC SCHOlARSHIPS 
• 2 YR SCHOLARSHIPS •3 YR SCHOLARSHIPS SCHOLARSHIPS COVER TUITION, BOOKS AND FEES $100 PER MONTH WHILE ENROLLED APPLICATION DEADLINE: I MARCH 198.2 
FOR MORE DETAILS CALL: MAJOR BOB MciLHARGIE 
239-6.264/6265 
grounds crews will be plowing the D1, D2, and D6 student parking lots tomorrow. Terry asked students with a car parked in those lots to move them today to the lot south of the Athletic and Convocation Cen­ter. 
The lots will be completely plowed tomorrow aftenoon around 2 p.m. when students can move their cars back. Glenn says that ifany car is not moved, it will probably be buried deeply under the plowed 
snow. 

Terry did say however that he un­derstands some students' cars simp­ly won't start and that the grounds crews will ·try their best to work amund any cars left on the lot. 
Any questions about the snow 
removal  can  be  handled  by  Tim  
Koegel,  the  Notre  Dame  Om­ 
budsman.  

The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Fnday and on horne football Saturdays· except dunng exarn and vacat1on penods The Observer •s published by the students of Notre Darne and Samt Marys Col­lege Subscnplions rnay be purchased 1or $25 per yea_r ($15 per sernesrer) by wnt•ng The Observet P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd•ana 46556 
The Observer IS a member ot The Associated Press All repro!luct•on nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notr~ Dame lnd>ana 46556 · 

...r•al'ln..........,....,"''•••••••••u••••mllnllAdita 
1 Rocco's Hair Styling f = 531 N. Michigan St.,l 
South Bend J Phone-233-4957
*'

! ai 
1..1tiQI.tUUIIII11a&IIINUUUIP111QilPUUIU~...i. 
L--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------1 

-~-----------... 
The Observer Monday, February 15, 1982 -page 5 
Leprechaun Peter Boutjaily shared cheerleading duties with Coco Patanaude atSaturday's women's basketball victory over Cincinnati. (Photo by Cheryl Erte/t) 

Working well 

Newdeli line proves popular 
Nobel Prize winner to open 1982 Lit Fest 
Nobel Prize winner Czeslaw Milosz will opl·n the 1982 Sopho­more Literary festival, scheduled for Sunday Feb. 21 through Saturday feb. 27. On Feb. 21, Milosz will con· duct a I:.30 p.m. workshop and a 7:.30 p.m. poetry reading. The Uni· versity of California at Berkeley professor will then travel to Paris where he will give a major talk at an international program in support of 
the Polish Solidarity movement. 
Other noted poets, playwriters and essayists will appear during the week in a st·rics of public discus­sions of their work. The student managed festival annually brings st·veral noted authors to the campus for one or more days of classroom and auditorium appearances. 
The i !-year-old Milosz won the I980 Nobel Prize for literature. The citation accompanying the 
S.l I0,000 'Jward acclaimed his "uncompromising clearsightedness, voicing man's exposed condition in 
a  world  of  severe  conllicts.  His  
writing  is  many-voiced  and  
dramatic,  insistent  and  

provocatiVl'." 
Robert !lass of Saint Mary's Col­kgl· of< >akland. Calif .. will translate \1ilo~z·~ work~ at a I:.30 p.m. session on .\londay, Feb. 22. Robert Pinsky of the Berkeley school and poetry editor of Thl· Nt·w Republic will ac­
company I lass. A <iuggenhd low. Pinsky has won sl-veral major awards t(>r his hooks of poetry. The two writer~ will partidpaue in a joint rl'alling of their poetry during a 
7:50 p.m. appearance in the .\1emorial Library Audllorium. 
.\1q~an Terry, a founding memhn of sevaal thl·atl·r organizations and 
MAKE A WORLD OF DIFFERENCE 
There's an endless frontier of need out there, stretching from the Sahara to the Andes to the Atolls of the South Pacific. In 20 years, 80,000 Peace Corps volunteers have traveled to all of them, to work with people in over 60 countries_ They've done everything from helping villagers dig wells and build houses, to teaching them languages and skilled trades, to giving adv1ce on farming and. health care. Join a phenomenal tradition. The difference is ii better world, and a better you. 
Register Now at the Placement 
Bureau for Interview: Feb. 23 & 24 
the author of numerous plays and musicals, will preside at a 2:.30 p.m. workshop Tuesday, Feb. 23, in the Library Lounge and direct an 8 p.m. performance of one of her new 
productions in the Lafortune B ROOM. Terry's awards include the sil­ver medal of the American Theater Association for "distinguished con­tribution to and service in the theater." 
Wednesday's program includes a 2:.30 pm workshop and a 7:.30 p.m. poetry reading session by Marge Piercy, national award winner and visiting faculty member at several schools, including Indiana and Purdue Universities. The Detroit native has participated in more than 
I00 writing workshops or poetry sessions on the nation's . campuses. 
David Wagoner, author of "The Escape Artist," soon to be a movie directed by Francis Coppola, will read excerpts from a few of his I 0 novels or volumes of poems at 7:.30 
p.m. Thursday in the Library Auditorium. A former faculty mem­ber at DePauw and presently a professor ofEnglish at the llniversity of Washington, he is a chancellor of the American Academy of Poets. His workshop will he at I:.30 p.m. Friday. 
Susan fromberg Schaeffer, poet and novelist, will n:ad some of her award winning works a 7:.30 p.m. friday. Over 2,000 of her poems have appeared in print and she has Ol'en described by the New York Times as "the lines! new talent we've seen in a long while." A novel. "Anya," was a I974 best-seller and "Time In Its flight" was a 1978 Book of the Month Club selection. 
the present deli service. 
Both the student and the dining 
hall personnel seem to approve of 
the new deli line. "It sure beats hot 
dogs and fish sandwiches!" com­
mented Freshman Paul Salmon. 
The deli line offers a choice of 
breads, rolls, luncheon meats, 
cheeses, lettuce, tomatoes, chips 
and two soups. Each student may 
select three meats and cheeses, and 
unlimited condiments. 
Although the lines now may be a little longer, food service hopes it is worth the wait. Behind the scenes the deli is a complicated operation. Five people, two working each line with one refilling the supplies, ac­commodate the long lines. Accord­ing to Notre Dame Food Service personnel, the closing of two hot lunch lines will offset. the additional cost of the deli service. 
Still in its experimental stages, the deli line bases its continued exist­ence on costs and benefits evaluated from overall student response. 
CadetLupo r 
selected by ROTC 
Senior Cadet Thomas D. Lupo of 
the University of Notre Dame has 
been selected as the outstanding 
Army ROTC cadet in the state of In­
diana by the Reserve Officers As­
sociation. Lupo, a Carmel, N.Y. 
native will represent the Indiana 
ROA at the ROA National Con­
ference in Washington. D.C. later 
this month. Cadet Lupo, who is the 
University of Notre Dame senior 
class president was also selected as 
the outstanding cadet in his platoon at the ROTC Advanced Camp at Fort Riley, Kan., last summer. 

How about bringing us your ideas? 
The best education after college is 
being able to put your talent to work. 
To do this, you need an environment 
that is open to your ideas. One that 
can offer you challenge, responsibility 
and diversity. Scott Paper can do just 
that. 
Because of our size and diversity, we can offer capable people an environment in which to develop their potential. Talented college graduates will find career growth op­portunities in finance, marketing and marketing research, accounting, engineering, research and development, management science and industrial relations. 
That's why you should learn more about Scott Paper, a multi-dimensional, Fortune 500 company. For over 1DO years, we have been pro­ducing a variety of quality consumer and commer­cial paper products. 
We are a company open to ideas. How about bringing us yours? 
There is a lot more to Scott than just paper. 
CONTACT YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICE FOR INFORMATION 




SCOTT 
SCOTT PAPER COMPANY 
An equal opportunity employer. MIF 


By MICHOLE MADDEN 
News Stuff 
A new deli bar appeared in the South Dining llall two weeks ago olfl-ring s!lldents a alternative to the regular hot lunch. 
The proposal, made last yl·ar by Tricia lliler. the student senator for the dining halls, originally requested a soup and sandwich line. The ad­ministrators of the Notre Dame food Savin: were at tlrst reluctant to make the addition becaUSl' they feared that the cost, especially ifstu· 
rlc·nts started taking sandwiches 
from the dining hall, would be too 

great. 
After numerous meetings with the Food Advisory Board, and with other student representatives, the idea gained momentum especially after Saint Mary'1> opened a deli line. 
Although the deli requires numerous extra man-hours and food costs, no major rennovatioris need take place to serve the deli line fare. Because of the few changes needed to start the deli line, the ad· ministrators of the f(>od service last sl·mester announced the opening of 
-
1.,,. 
' 
fEBRUfiRY ~ ~ --l':lfiRLH ~ GJ 
L[]BB'i -HURLE'i BllJll. 
L~EH Pf?u~ZES 

r ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 


The new faces ofMardi Gras 

Photos by Cheryl Ertelt 

The Observer Features Section 


The triu ofMalt Feeney, Greg SubkoU'ski, and Steve Grasfeatllred a carnival, dance marathon, and talent Nataro performed one ofthe Mardi Gras talent show show. (Photo by Cheryl Ertelt) favorites -Dead Surfer Girl. This year's "new" Mardi 
Mardi Gras ends on prosperous note 
T
h~ Mardi Gras festival for 
l'JH2 conclud~d this weekend 

with ''The B~st of the Mardi Gras 
l'JH2" talent show and th~ Mardi 
Gras Dance-a-thon. The talent show 
Wl>&::p&MMI;Ij;J;jl}i,ii~•,,i 
RayWisv 
was hdd at th~ Lafortun~ Club on Friday evening, and the twdve hour dann·-a-thon took place on Satuday in North dome of the ACC. Mardi <iras started olfwith a carnival last Saturday at Stepan Center. 
Thl· taknt show was a tn·men­dous success. Andy Shafer, Mardi (iras co-chairman, stated that the "taknt was trl·mendous. There was a lot of intl'rl·st shown by people who werul't abk to be in the show." Shafer also mullioned that about ~00 peopk attendnl the perlilr· mance. 
Mark Davis served as Mastl·r of Cen:monil'S for the talent show, and many of the performers were "regulars" at the Nazz. The acts were varied in nature, ranging from a coml·dy routine to impressions to li1lk music to jazz. Davis is to be com­mended for bringing an interesting twist to the show when he stepped away from his role as Master of Ceremonies and entertained the audience with his magic act. All in all, the talent show showcased that talent which truly was "the best of 
the Mardi Gras." 
The Dance-a-Thon was also very successful. Approximately I 'iO stu­dents participlltcd in the twelve hour marathon, with many more stu­dents attending the public portion of the dance, which began at lJ p.m. and ended with the marathon at I 
a.m. Prizes were given away every hour, and all of the students who participated in the dance-a-thon l(mnd it to be an enjoyable ex­perience. Celeste llank stated that she was having "a fantastic time, and all ofthe peopk arc great... W c arc all set to boogie for hours and hours." Mary Beth llcslin echoed similar sentiments. She rcfcrcd to the dance as "a lot offun" and added that "the Dj's from WSND were great." Sum­ming up the cntirl· dance, Nancy De Luca said,"it was so much fun. It's hard to hdieve that it is almost over." 
The dancers WlTl' judged in many difi'crcnt catagorics, and prizes were awarded to the best couple, the best individual mall' dancer, and the best individual t'cmalc dancer. The "Rocky Award" was also given to those dancers who seemed to be the most determined to persevere. Sr. Evelyn Booms was one of the many different judges. She stated that she was asked to judge "couples and in­dividuals...for originality, en­thusiasm, and a continuing smile." Sr. Booms also added that "all of the dancers arc doing well." 
Many ofthc dancers danced in 

costume. Stephanie Miley and Dave 
Doncski stated that they were asked to wear costumes, and that they had decided to "go as a famous couple, so we chose Robin Hood and Maid Marion." Other costumes ranged from grass skirts to a group ofdan­cers who appeared as "Snow Whitt.· 
and the Seven Dwarfs." 
The Mardi Gras Carnival took 
place last weekend and was held in 
Stepan Center. The assortment of 
carnival booths was an interesting 
diversion from the: usual Notre: 
Dame: weekend, but in the words of 
Mardi Gras co-chaiman Andy Shat'cr, 
it "didn't draw the student paticipa­
tion we had hoped for." One ofthe 
more interesting moments of the 
carnival occurred when Studc:nt 
Body President Don Murday agreed 
to have his beard shaved in ex­
change ti>r a seventy-five dollar 
donation to charity. 
The annual Mardi Gras celcbation at Notre Dame may have changed greatly this year. but it still provided an enjoyable Wl'ckcnd for all par­ticipants. The carnival, talent show, and Dance-a-Thon all combined to create: a festive celebration which was cft'cctivcly sprc:ad out over a two weekend period. And, although specific figures are unavailable at this time, it is estimatc:d that a sizable sum was raised for the Mardi Gras charities. In the words of Nancy Scribner, a Dance-a-Thon par­ticipant, "I can't believe it is so easy and fun to raise so much money for charity." 


Ann Landers to speak at Series 
A
nn l.andn~ will appear at the Morris Civic Auditorium in South Bc:nd. Thursday c:n·ning Feb. I H, as tht.· first spcaka in the Town IIall '82 lecture series sponsored by the junior League. Doors will open at 7 p.m. with the lecture beginning at 8 p.m.. 
Ann Landers is the most widely syndicatt.·d columnist in the world, with an estimated readership of70 million in over I ,000 newspapers A World Almanac poll conducted in I'J7H, ~howed .\tis~ Lander~ to be the \1ost lnlluential Woman in thl· llnitcd State~. Rcn·ntly, the American :\1t-dical As~odation chose .\li~~ Lander~ a~ the recipient 
of the Citation li>r Distinguished Service. (he highest honor given to a lay person. 
Ann Landers is considered one of he most effective platform per· sonalitics in Aml·nca. She has lectured from pulpits, on campuses, and in countless auditoriums and conv<:ntion halls around the world. 
following Ann Landers in a four­part lecture series will he former First Lady, Bl'lty ford on March 
I Hth, television basketball commen­tator AI McGuire on .\1ay 6th, and in­ternationally famed mentalist, the amazing Kreskin on May 20th. 

Series tickets arc available for S60 Patron, S25 and S I Hand arc available at the following outlets : Sears at University Park Mall, Valley Bank and Trust Co.( Main Branch and the Osceola Plaza), Century Center Box Office, St. joseph Valcy Bank in Elkhart, and Clay Kitchen on the East Bank. In addition, tickets will be sold tht: day of the lecture, february I Hth, at the Morris Civic Auditorium box office from 6 to H 
p.m.. 
Single tickets arc also available li>r S I 0 ti>r Ann Lander!>. A special stu· dent section is S'i. 
Monday, February 15, 1982 -page 7 

Little guys, bon1bs could cause death 
have never been abk to realistically consider the possibility of
Imy own death. The end of the world is even harder, but it's begin­
ning to look as though both arc a real possibility. 
I was reminded ofthis by Adm. Hyman Rickovcr, who said at his 
going away party in Congress last week that we would probably 
destroy ourselves with nuclear wl·apons. 
Adm. Rickover is not a far-out religious Sl'Ct. Hl· is not a man who 
pretends to be able to li>rctellcvcnts from the position fo the stars. 
Adm. Rickovt·r built our nuclear Navy and he's made his rl·putation 
with hard-headed thingking about pra<:tical problems. You can bet 
he wasn't kidding when he said we'd probably dl·stroy the world 
with nuclear weapons. 
Most of us wish there were no nuclear bombs. The trouble is that 
the inexorable direction that progrc.:ss takes is not much changed by 
our prct'crcncc. There are Q;1t· §ll ... 
nuclear bombs and it'~ unlike-· 
ly that our wishes or even a y onvy 
student demonstration in 
front of the White House will 
have much eft.ect on their 
production here or anywhere 
else. 
Russia and the United Statl'll may he too scared ofc.:ach other to ever start a nuclear war, but when the little guys get themselves some bombs, they're not going to be so inhibited by the good sl·nsl' that brings on fright. You may remember the.: Princeton student who made an atomic bomb a t'cw years back. It created quite a furor and a lot ofsmall countries came to him and asked if he'd make one for them. 
I probably remember this incident better than you do because that young student, john Aristotle Phillips, now lives in my hometown. He seems like an extraordinarily bright, pleasant young man. My only worry is that ifjohn could do it several years ago when he was in college, there arc probablcy a lot ofother people around the world who have figured out how to make one, too. I'm almost certain that john isn't running them up in his basement, but some­where.: in the world there may he someone who is. I worry about someone like ldi A min getting himself a bomb. 
0 
0 
, klDYA WIL(
/~~:t~~ 
~! 
/ 
lllflll ....(.~
_1
'Wanna havesomefun?' .J,j} 
Most ofrhe world's troublt-s come when a country tha that doesn't 
have something it wants, sets out to get it at any cost. Poor countries 
arc more ofa problem for rich nations than other rich nations. 
Poverty in our cities is a problem for all of us, not just for the poor. 
People who don't have anything to losl· arc often not very nil·c about 
how they set out to get something. "The hell with it," they say. "What 
have I got to lost'?" And they go out and knock sonHIIll' over the head 
and take their money. 
When one of the poor nations gets holtl of the nuckar cquivaknt 
ofa Saturday Night Special, it's ;tpt to go out and knock the restoftht· 
world over the head, anti that coultl he thl· cntl. 
There arc some other wonderful possibilities for ending the 
world, ofcourse. it may be a close race between doing it by accident 
and doing it on purpose. When they had the nuclear leak in Roches­
ter a few weeks ago, they said it was because some ofthe pipes were 
getting old. Did they think the pipes were immortal? 
Ifwe can put oft·ending the world with nuclear bombs, chcmkal 
warfare or biological warfare, the world will probablydie a slow and 
agonizing death ofoverpopulation. Year by year we'll be forced by 
space restrictions to huddk closer and closer togcthn with less and 
less to cat. W c'll hurry to take up everything good from the earth, use 
it, turn it into junk or garbage, and then dump it in our rivers, lak~s. 
and oceans to get rid ofit. W l''ll thus ruin the earth and the water. 
The prospects ofall this l·ould make dying a natural dl·ath look 
good to me in another 'iO years. 

j 
l j 
l 



~~()1"tS~J~l~,..~i~e~~~S~====~======================M=o=nd=a=y,=F=eb~r=ua=ry~I~5~,1~9~82~~p~ag~e~s 
By The Observer and The Associated Press The men's tennis team dropped a match yesterday H0 cKEy ::;:::::::;:::::m:::::m:::::: 
Softball practice has begun for the Notre Dame women's team. This week's practices will be on Tuesday, Wednes­day am~ Thursday at 9:30p.m. in the ACC Fieldhouse. New members are welcome. For more information, contact Karen at 7401. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame men's swim team 
stretched it's season record to 8-2 with a pair of wins over the weekend. Friday the men defeated St. John's and Saturday they out­swam Fordham in meets held in New York. Don Casey and Paul McGowan each won twice in Saturday's 63-50 drubbing ofFordham. The team next sees action this Friday against Northern lllinois at the Rockne Memorial. -The Observer 
Saint Mary's basketball fortunes took a nose-dive over the weekend as the team dropped a pair of games. Friday the Belles were victimized by Newport in "the University of Wisconsin tourney. Saturday, Ann Armstrong scored 21 points, and Mary Pat Sitlington scored 14, while pulling down 13 rebounds, but it was all for naught, as the Belleslost to Rip in College, 74-64. -The Observer 
Gerry Faust will be the features speaker at a meeting _for all freshmen interested in becoming student managers. The meetmg is tonight at 6 p.m. in the ACC auditorium. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC Ultimate Frisbee Club will have 
its first practice today at 2:30p.m. in Stepan Center. Practices will be held every Mondy from 2:30 to 4 p.m. All are invited. -The Ob­server 
The Notre Dame Rowing Club will hold a team meeting to pass out raffle tickets tomorrow at 8 p.m. upstairs in LaFortune. All members who plan to go on the spring trip are asked to attend. -The Observer 
to a tough Ohio State squad 6-3 at the indoor courts in the ACC. At first singles, Mark McMahon dropped a three set match to Big Ten indoor champion Ernie Fernandez 3-6, 6-2, 6-2. Winning for the Irish were Captain Tom Hartzell at third singles, Freshmen Mike Gibbons andJim Navotny at second doubles, andJim Falvey and Tom Pratt at third doubles. Notre Dame's next match will be after spring break. ­
The Observer 
Ski tripsto Swiss Valley every Saturday night during the win­ter months. are beingsponsored by the Student Union. Busses depart from the Main Circle at 5 p.m. and return at ll p.m. Bus tickets can be purchased in advance from the Student Union for S2.50, or on the bus itself for $3.00. Also, discounted lift tickets and ski rental are available -The Observer 
The scenery is great, the exercise is good for you, and cross-country skiing is fun. It's also easy to learn. The office of Non-Varsity Athletics is sponsoring a learn-to-ski weekend for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. For details, call 239-5100. -The Observer 
Triple-winner Teri Schindler led the ~otre Dame women's swim team to victory over Fordham Saturday m New York. Schindler won the 50-yard breaststroke and the 100-yard breaststroke events, and was a member of the victorious 200-yard individual medley relay team, as the Irish swam to a 71-69 win. That victory, coupled with Friday's win over St. John's, gives Notre Dame :a season record of 7-3. -The Observer 
Cheerleadertryoutsare coming up quickly. A man­datory meeting ofall those interested in becoming a member of the Notre Dame Cheerleading Squad will be held in the LaFortune Little Theater on Wednesday, Feb. 7, at 7 p.m. Requirements, practice schedules, and other information will be discussed at this time. 
The Observer 
Hockey Box Score Friday's Game Notre Dame 5, Ferris State 4 Notre Dame 0 2 3 -5 Ferris State 1 2 -4 
FIRST PERIOD -Scoring -1, FS, Mernf•eld. 6, 
(Baker. File). 2:16. Penalties-FS, Strong, (m1nor. 
roughing) 2:09. NO. Higgins. (minor. Interference) 
2:09. NO. Chapman, (minor. roughmg) 2:09. NO, Regan. (m1nor. tnppmg) 5:58. NO. Bonadio. (mmor. slashing) 6:19. FS, R. Sm1th, (m1nor, h1gh stickmg) 18:29. 
SECOND PERIOD-Scoring-2, NO, Doman, 
4. (unassisted), 3.10. 3. FS. Mernf1eld. 7. (Wendt. Rudrup), 13:58. 4. NO. Poulin. 25. (Rothstein. Schmidt). 15:07. Penalties-FS. Wendt. (minor. In­terference) 7:32. FS. Baker. (m1nor. unsportsmanll) 
10:34. NO. Deasey, (minor. unsportsmanll) 10:34. NO, BJork, (mmor. slashing) 12:18. FS. G. Hall. (m1nor. Interference) 14:24. 
THIRD PERIOD-Scoring-5. NO. Perry. 16. (Bellomy). 1:09.6. NO. Btork. 18. (Schmidt). 11:14.7. NO. Higg1ns, 8. (Chapman. Brown), 14 41. 8, FS. Mernf1eld. 8. (Rudrud. Cook). 16:17. 9. FS. Strong. 
14. (Baker). 18:43. Penalties -FS. Brownlie. (minor, roughing) 4:28. NO. Perry. (m1nor. elbow•ng) 
4:28. NO, Regan. (minor. tnpp1ng) 5:45. NO. Collard. (m1nor. slashing) 9:12. FS. Strong. (m1nor. rough1ng) 
11.14. NO. Collard. (m1nor. roughing) 11:14. NO. Brown. (m1nor. slaShing) 16:09. NO. Collard. (m1nor, roughing) 16:09. FS. Strong. (m1nor. roughing) 16:09. NO. Btork. (m1nor. tnpp1ng) 17:38. 
Shots on goal: 
Notre Dame 6 8 13 -27 
Ferns State 10 9 9 -28 
Goaltenders -Notre Dame. McNamara. Ferris 
State. Hughston. A-2.300 
Saturday's Game Notre Dame 6, Ferris State 0 Notre Dame 1 3 2 -6 Ferns State 0 0 0 -0 
FIRST PERIOD -Scoring -10, NO, Poulin. 26. (Regan. Rothstein),10:10. Penaltles-FS, MacNeil, (m1nor. cross checck1) :56. FS. G. Hall. (m1nor. rough­Ing) 7:32. NO, Deasey, (minor. rough1ng) 7:32. 
SECOND PERIOD-Scoring-11, NO. Poulin. 
27. (Schmidt. Rothste•n), 5:27. 12, NO. Perry. 17, (Btork. Bellomy). 6:18. 13. NO. Doman. 5, (Luc1a, Schmidt). 13:49. Penalties -NO. Luc1a, (m1nor. hooking) 7:39. 
THIRD PERIOD-Scoring -14, NO. Bellomy. 6. (Logan. Btork). 5:15. 15, NO, Collard. 1, (Brown. Luc1a). 7:53. Penalties -NO. H1gg1ns. (minor. hook1ng) 3:02. FS, G. Hall, (m1nor. h1gh st1cking) 
13:40. NO. Brown, (m1nor. high sticking) 13:40. NO. Ricci, (m1nor. hook1ng) 15:41. 
Shots on goal: Notre Dame 13 15 9 -37 Ferns State 5 9 12 -26 
Goaltenders -Notre Dame. McNamara. Ferns State. Hughston. A-2.500 
The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However. classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All classtfieds must be prepaid. 
either in person or through the mail. 




Classifieds 
LOST: IN 109 O'SHAG. BLUE BOOK­Need nde to Houston Texas. for spnng

NOTICES 

NEED A RIDE TO AND FROM GAINES· To our 3-A Alumm hosts Chris. Dan. Paul. 
PLEASE WHOEVER PICKED IT UP. please call Timo at 1782. 
VILLE, FLA FOR SPRING BREAK. CAN Greg, M1ck, Mitch. Brian and Melv1n: OVERSEAS JOBS -Summetoyear GET IN TOUCH WITH STEVE LEAVE WED. 10TH. WILL SHARE Thanks you for a wonderful weekend! round. Europe. S. Amer.. Australia. As1a. BURKART. TEL. 3121. TYPING 28 years as a secretary. Excel· USUAL. CALL MARYEVA AT 2909. Gianetto's was fantastic and the party All fields. $500-$1200 monthly. Sightsee­Ken. was out of control! You guys were perfect SACK WITH ALL MY NOTES & BOOKS. break. If you are headed in that direction PERSONALS 
lent typ1st-ret~red. $1.00 per page. Call I MISS YOU! 
Ing. Free info. Wnte IJC. Box 52-IN4. LOST: BROWN TWEED WOOL SCARF OUERIDO DOS XX, Happy Birthday! An­gentlemen (even M1ck!). Can't wait until
Phyllis 259-2501. Corona Del Mar. CA 92625. at NO-MAINE game Jan. 27 1n sect1on MIKE we return for more fun! Thanks bunches! 
other year older. but w1ser?! Your valet 1 08 of the bleachers. If found please call AUSTIN. TEXAS area IS where I need a Linda. Julie. Jill. Susan. Cann. 
park1ng serv1ce has been THE BEST: the DID YOU CALL THE AIRLINES FOR Ross at 1898. nde to for break most Willing to share ex­
Mercedes was well taken care of The Apnl and C1ndy-Purdue'sHELPI4 STUDENT OR GA DEPAUL TIX 
BREAK rates w1ll never be too htgh. You are Alpha X1 Deltas
YOUR SPRING RESERVA· penses & dnv1ng. Call1791. 
NEEDED! CALL JODI (SMC)4697 PRIMO!
TIONS? PICK UP YOUR TICKET AT 1ST LOST: IN 109 0 SHAG ON ll'otO A BLUE 
........ , ........ ······ ·······················--··· 
MOSJESXOXSOURCE TRAVEL SAINT MARYS-BOOKBAG WITH ALL MY NOTES AND RIDE NEEDED TO HOUSTON TEX-FOR SUMMER PROGRAMS: Ireland, Scot­
5606, NO-7080 BOOKS!!!!! PLEASE. IF YOU PICKED IT 
SPRING BREAK -WILL SHARE land, London and Paris, May 18-June UP. CONTACT STEVE BURKART USUAL CALL CHRIS AT 1678 ANYTIME. 17. Paris, Germany, Switzerland and 
NEED A GOOD HAIRCUT? CALL TELEPHONE 3121 ASAP THANKS DILLON B•g Red Hockey .. AWESOME! M1ke, are you sat1sf1ed now? prod's new
Rome, June 15-July 14. Courses Thurs. the Hogs are led to slaughter aSSISt. ' MICHOLE AT 7951 $4 GUYS AND $6 available In history, business,GIRLS FOUND-one key on key chain outs1de 
I NEED RIDE TO INDIANAPOLIS. economics, sociology, theatre,
gate 5 of A. C. C. on Feb 1Oth Silly, Dummy, (C) Stupid, To the man Mon1ca. I lo~~ y~~ ~~;y ~~ch. e~~~~~it~
LEAVE ll'o19 ANYTIME: RTRN ll'o21 philosophy and Italian. Call Professor I'm crazy about-Be mine forever and w1th peanut butter and sugar. HappyLook1ng for a truly portable. yet powerful. CALL BILL at 7289 A.A. Black at SMC, 2114-4948 or at ever. Happy Valentine's Day I Valentine's Day! 
personal computer? See THE OS­Lost: Navy blue suit Coat. Whoever wore a 
home, 272-3726. 

I love you, 
BORNE 1, 64K. dual 1OOK d1sk dnves. blue su1t to the P. W. SYR on Sat. Feb. 6 M1ke 
Your Bunny Hunch.
complete software package. $1795. check to make sure you brought home the Look1ng for a truly portable. yet powerful FOURWAY COMPUTER PRODUCTS right navy blue su1t coat. Call3242 personal computer? See The Osborne 1.
FOR SALE
(Across from North Village Malt). 277­64K. dual tOOK d1sk dnves. plus $1400 To Little Gib, Have a happy birthday in7720 ... But. 

worth of software. all for $1795. FOUR­your hall, you wild woman youI Maura.
Senously WAY COMPUTER PRODUCTS (Across

Need dnver for 1979 pickup (automat•c) to Folks Save used at Love, Krames You're fe1stmess IS beyond companson.
money on books PAN­from North Village Mall). 277-7720. 
You can dnve me home anyt1me HappyStamford, CT area. Will pay $50 plus gas. It seems that my attempts to locate my OORAS 36'. off the list pnce. For a 11m11ed 

If Interested. call Mrs Walters. 259-8015. still-miSSing VUARNETS have all been 1n t1me we are havmg a 1982 calendar sale Valentine's Day! 
LOST: Texas Instruments Tl-55 cal­A long distance wish to Pa Glb: Happy M1keva1n. However. I'm not one to get off the -56'. off!! Th1s Fnday from 3-6 pm used culator 10 the engmeenng aud1tonum Valentine's Day! I hope Florida wasTHE BLACK FILM FESTIVAL CON­bus eas11y. to be sure. Possibly my books are 56'o off and new books are 26'. 
dunng last semesters finals. My name 1s fun. Love, Cold, But Staying Warm-PTINUES with Martin L. King: The Man and reward offers have not been taken off. Open 11-6 weekdays and 10-5 scratched 1n on the back. Please return Suzanne.
the March (Feb. 16). seriously. If you have any information weekends. PANDORAS BOOKS. 937 
JohnX8641 
If I d1g a burrow for you. w1ll you be myIt's Nat1on Time (and) I Have a Dream regarding the whereabouts of these South Bend Avenue. 233-2342. 

valentme?

(Feb. 23), elusiVe sunglasses, do your self a favor COME AND DISCUSS: DIVORCE AND 
M1ke

Every Tues. in Feb. at 8:00p.m .. and get in touch w1th Ken Kesey at 283-ANN BOURJAIL Y Is only one week
THE CATHOLIC WEDNESDAY. FEB. 17
L•Hie Theatre (Lafortune-! st floor) 3210. HE TAKES HIS 'NAYS SERIOUS· away. Watch for her!ill
AT 6:30 PM. IN THE SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE CLUBHOUSE. 
LY. TICKETS
MONEYfll Make good money selling P.S.-If you see any marshmallow sporting OAKLEY. YOU MAY BE NUTS BUT 
audiophile quality recording tapes. Con­them, aprehend the character 1mmed1ate­
YOU'RE COOL!!! 
uwocuwocuwocuwoc 
Mary the Torch. 

tact Jeffrey Johnston, 515 Bluff V1ew. Ber­ly and contact me. Reward still nego­You can light my f~re anyt1me.
rien, Ml 49103 tiable. 
WANTED: 2 TO 4 GA TICKETS FOR DE Mike
PAUL GAME. CALil KAAE", 2114-5127. ATTENTION SMC LOST. My riders to MARDI GRAS IN 
VOTE TO THE GREAT ALL AMERICAN BODY: NEW ORLEANS Ill have to find 2 more or Need TWO DePaul GA Tickets. Please KATHLEEN MURPH MURPHY '84 SBP YOU FEEL SO GOOD WRAPPED Cheryl and Rachel. 
I'll be stuck with NO's pseudo vers1on of 
Call TIM at 1377 BETH TIGHE '83 VPAA
LOST/FOUND 

AROUND ME. AND YOU'RE ALMOST Your Valentrne IS wattmg for you 1n thethe real thmg. Call Harpo at 8928. 
ELAINE HOCTEA '84 VPSA AS EASY TO CONTROL AS MY darkroom With a b1g surpnseI NEED TWO TICKETS FOR THE FOR YOUR STUDENT BODY ELECTRIC BLANKET. STATIC. The Model LOST: Green pla1d scarf. Last seen han­DEPAUL GAME!'! WILL PAY BIG OFFICERS CHARGED. EASY TO INSTALL ANDLOST: GOLD & PEARL FLOWER ging on the wire fence 1n front of Bad1n BUCKS. CALL MATT AT 232-2578. 
THURS. FEB.18 
COMPLETE WITH UNLIMITED WAR·CHARM FROM A NECKLACE. Lost be­Hall around 5:30p.m. If you happened to RANTY I ALWAYS DID LOVE CEMENT
tween Farley and the Law School. If p1ck 11 up, please call Karen Kostecky WANTED: 4 GA tickets to the DePaul found. please call Phyllis -6844. 8162. 
THIGHS! 
game... Call Sandy at 272-4683 REWARD. Kat1e.
UNSPOKEN AND UNWRITTEN-31 
Mary D. (THATS 15 5X2) It 1sn't every g~rl who can get stx guys tn LOST 1PR. XL DARK BLUE SKI P S I DIDN'T FORGET VALENTINE'S bed at the same t1me You really are a Help international relations, Hosers from Mary D.
the G.N.W need four t1ckets for DePaul. 
Mary D.
GLOVES IN EG. AUD. MONDAY NIGHT DAY I JUST THOUGHT THAT PER· spec1al person. Happy Valentine's Day. 
call7936 The Mary D1Stan1slao Show. ton1ght at SONALS MORE

PLEASE CALL SEAN 1416 ARE PERSONAL The Survey Taker 
FOR RENT 

6:05 on WSND-AM 64. WHEN THERE ARENT 219 LOVE
I will give ANYTHING for 1 or 2 GAs to LOST: Ladles gold watch. Fnday after­DEPAUL Please call Alex at 6931. 
STRICKEN PEOPLE EXPRESSING Ugl1est Wench on Campus Ugliest THEMSELVES AT tOe A WORD. YOU
noon. Inscription on back of watch. If Male-will share 3 bedrm. home in nice Dons. 
found, please contact DENISE at 283-neighborhood 150 per month. ph. 289-Desperately need 2 to 4 GA tix to DE' Wench on Campus UGLIEST WENCH KNOW HOW I FEEL. WORDS JUST The Observer sorely m1sses your
ON CAMPUS PAUL game. Call Peter at 8456.
6739. 1908 or 272-4109 DON'T SEEM TO SUFFICE -I'LL servrces. It JUSt can't funct1on without you. 
SHOW YOU AGAIN SOON!! P S S. Please return and be my Valentine. ScowH for UHOC PEARL EARRINGS ARE EXPENSIVE! Oom Fico LOST: Casio FX-8000 calculator some­Available for next school year and sum­Need up to 5 DePaul G.A. tickets. Call where in Eg. Aud or computer building or mer -two five-bedroom houses. 
John at 1391 TO MY RENAISSANCE MAN. HAPPYice rink. I need it for my tests!! If found, 234-2626. 

HUBERT, EVERY DAY IS VALENTINE'S VALENTINES DAY. 
please call Dominic at X 1360. 

I Need 2 or 3 GAS FOR DE PAUL. CALL DAY WITH YOU !! LOVE YOU LOTS 
I.L.Y.
JIM X8771 KATH. Found: Lad1es gold watch approx. 2 Jane.
JOAN 
weeks ago in the ACC Locker room. Call WANTED M1ke Banner desperately wants you to be
NEED RIDERS TO MARDI GAASII Call Janice at 1327 to claim. WILL PAY MEGA BUCKS FOR SIX (6) 
h1s Valentine. He really wants to continue DEPAUL GAS FOR BIOLOGY TEAC· Harpo at 8928. 
the mouth-to-mouth resusc1tatron les-ACTION.

I need two rides to: HER ARRIVING THE 27TH. CALL sons.

Lost: Blue enamel cloisonne bracelet THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU I THOUGHT YOU OUTDOORS TYPES
LONG ISLAND CITY TERESA AT 41-4489 M1ke BannerWeds. morning in the Ub. Aud. Lobby Amulya. Malan. Bhanu and all you guys LIKED TO CLIMB MOUNTAINS. WHY

for spring break. We can leave by noon on Fnday. Please an ARM AND A LEG for
area. Deep sentimental value. If found, who made my 21st birthday. I've saved a DON'T YOU GO FOR IT YOU WHIMP.
I would g1ve

please call Kat hi at 1327. p1ece of cake for the anonymous cake
call Ray at 3596 A PAL 
DEPAUL GA'S Call Alex at 6931. 
donor. Cla1m soon. Reena. 
The Observer -Sports Monday, February 15, 1982 -page 9 
...Won1en 
conttnuedfrompage 12 
again, scoring 12 of the game's last 
Itl points. 
Dougherty canned a 17-foot jum­per from the right side, then followed with a jumper from the foul line on the next Irish possession to make the scon· S9-52, and added four free throws in tht· final two minutes, a..o; she equakd the point to­tal she had against Marquette in the finals of the Dial Classic last month. 
Dougherty finished 7-of-7 from the charity stripe, and now has been perfect on her last 12 free throw at­tempts. 
"They scored six points in the last fivt· minutes of the game," said DiS­tanlslao, "and that's when we re· established control." 
Notre Dame's early problems, according to DiStanlslao, were t·auscd by a lack of concentration and a little trntativcness. 
"We knew that they played a sticky, denial defense," she said. "We had prepared for that, but sometimes when you haven't seen anything like that for a while, you play a little too tentatively. 
"We played right into thdr hands," she added. "We knew they wanted us to pick the ball up at half court, and we obliged them." 
But after a 13 and a half minute talk during the I 5-minute halftime intermission, the Irish stopped obliging. 
They also held the fast-break bas­kets ofthe Bearcats down to a lonely 
tew. 
"They scored maybe I 0 points off the transition game," DiStanislao said, "but that wa..o;n't as significant a part of the game a..'> it was against Miami (Ohio). We knew we were going to have to keep the score in the 50's to win it, and we did. 
Look.,·· ~hc ""'"· wrning to the ot~ 

ficial play-by-play sheet, "14: 13, 13:46, 12:37, II :41 -their scores were coming a minute apart, which shows that we had control of the tempo." 
Center Joy Roberts scored 16 points to pace the Bcarcats, now I 5­9, but as Irish grad assistant Mary Murphy said, "She really had to work for it," a tribute to the defense of .. Matvey, Schueth and Carrie Bates, who took turns guarding the Ash· land, Ohio junior. 
IRISH ITEMS -Notre Dame shot 65 percent ( 13-of-20) in the second half, and finished at .587 for the game . . . Dougherty, the team leader, and Kaiser both had six as­sists against the Bearcats . . . Bates scored just four points, two in each half, snapping a nine-game double­figure scoring spree ... M~tvey's I 0 points upped her season total to 
I Rl), a new record for a junior. 

Sullivan Award to honor amateur 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Scott Hamilton, the recently crowned U.S. tlgure skating champion and the defending world titlist, and track and tlcld stars Carl lewis and Evelyn Ashford are among the I 0 finalists ti>r tht· Amateur Athletic Union's an­nual Sullivan Award to be presented tonight. 
The Sullivan Award has been given by the AAU each year since 19~0 to the nation's top amateur athlete li>r the preceding year. Tonight's award will be presented hy John Naber, li>rmer Olympic swimming champion and winner of tht· I 977 Sullivan Award. 
Hamilton, 2~. of Denver. Colo., won the men's title for the second straight year at the U.S. figure Skating champion~hips in In­dianapolis last month. He won the world competition last year at llartford, Conn., and will defend that titk this year in Copenhagen, Den­mark. 
Ashford, 2~. of Los Angeles, was named the top women's athlete in the world by the Track and Field News, tht• first time that honor had bc:en given to an American. She was unbeaten in the I 00-meter dash last year and lost just one time in the 200. 
Ashford also was a double-winner in the 100 and 200 in the World Cup games at Rome in September and holds the U.S. women's record of 
10:97 in the 100. She was also a Sul­livan Award finalist in 1980. 
Lewis 20, of Willingboro, N.J., and the University of Houston, became the tlrst athlete sinceJesse Owens to win the long jump and the I 00 in the NCAA track and field meet. Lewis, who owns the world's indoor long jump record of 28·3, also was a douhk--winner in Tht· Athletics Congress meet. 

Other strong candidates for the Sullivan Award arc teenage swim­mer Mary T. Meagher. 17, of Louis­ville. Ky., ami divt·r Greg Louganis, 
21. El Cajon, Calif. 

:\tcagh.-r was also a tlnalist laM year when she set world record~ in the I 00 and 200-metc:r hutterlly and won both t·n·nrs in the L:.s. indoor and outdoor swimming champion­ships. She is regarded as tht· best U.S. womt·n's swimmt·r sinn· Tracy Caulkins. the 197H Sullivan Award winner. 
l.ouganis is a Sullivan tlnalist ti1r the third ~Tar in a row. In I ')HO. tht· Long Beach Statt· student swept the N<.AA diving t·n·nts while success­fully ddt·nding his onc:-nwter titk. 
The other Sullivan nommees this vc·ar arc KathY Arc·nJst·n 2~. Hol­iand. \lieh... tor soli hall: Chrh Camphdl. z~. Ames. Iowa. wrt·.s tltng; Trane Huit.. IH. Bothell. Wash .. wnchroni7t'll swimmmg; Lonc:s Wigger Jr., 44, Carter, Mont., shoot­ing; and Sheila Young-Ochowicz, 31, Pewaukee, Wis., cycling. 

The first Sullivan Award winner was golfer Bobby Jones. Other win­ners have included Don Budge in tennis; Doc Blanchard in football; decathlon competitors Bob Ric­hards, Rafer Johnson and Bruce Jen· ncr; basketball's Bill Bradley and Bill Walton; track stars Parry O'Brien, Wilma Rudolph, Jim Beatty, Jim 
Ryun, Randy Matson, Frank Shorter and Rick Wohlhuter; and swimmers Don Schollander, Debby Meyer, John Kinsella, Mark Spitz, Tim Shaw, Naber and Caulkins. 
Caulkins, at age 16, was the youngest winner. 

Gymnast Kurt Thomas won the award two years ago, and last year's winner was speed skater Eric Heiden. 
The Sullivan Award is named for James E. Sullivan, a founder of the AAU and the organization's presi­
dent from 1906-08. He was also secretary of the American Olympic Committee from 1906-16. 
The award is base on tabulation of some 2,SOO ballots from past win­ners, member of the AAU board of governors, selection l'Ommiuee members, the U.S. Olympic Commit· tee's executive board and sports writers and broadcasters. 
Irish wrestlersassure a UJtnntng season 
By BRIAN REIMER 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame wrestling team traveled to Wheaton, Ill. over the weekend for one of the most pres­tigious midwest tournaments,the 54th annual Wheaton Invitational. The Irish managed to place eighth out ofa field of twenty. 
Phil Baty was "outstanding" in the 
words of the Irish coach, Brother 
Joseph Bruno. He finished fourth in a 
tough 167-pound weight class. 
Bruno also praised the efforts of 
I 58-pounder Brian Erard, who led the individual attack by reaching the finals, even though he had to settle for second place. Shawn Moloney. 

was unable to place in the top tour in the 177-pound division, but h•· too had an excellent weekend. 
There was more important news coming out ofthe meet for the Irish, however. As a result oftheir t1nish in the Wheaton, Notre Dame, with its record now at I 1-2-1, is assured of it s first winning wrestling season in four years. 
There are still two triangular meets left this season for the Irish, and both of them will be home meets. This Wednesday, the Irish en­tertain Cincinnati and Anderson in a meet scheduled to start at 7 p.m. in the ACC Pit. 
The Irish will close out their season Sunday with a triangular involving Siena Heights and Taylor. 
Notre Dame's women's basketball team is heading into the most crucial week in its history this week. Afterbeating a tough Cincinnati team over the weekend, the Irish must take on na­tional powers Illinois and South Carolina. To make matters worse, both games will be on the road. The Observer will have complete COI'erage ofboth games, as Notre Dame drit,es toward a possible NCAA tournament bid. See Mark Hannuksela's ac­count ofthe Irish win over the Bearcats em pag<' 12. (Photo by Cheryl Ertelt) 
NOTRE 

DAME A.C.C. 
SUN.
thru 


FEB.· 21st 

Wednesday Night Show Hook's Special Discount Night 
(Check at Hook's Stores for Details) 
&SHOWS 
Wed., Thurs., Fri., 8 p.m. SaL, Noon, 4p.m. &8p.m. J;::;:.mf!f!' Sun., 2p.m. and 6p.m. 
PRICES 
$5.50-$7 .00·$8.00 
NO & SMC STUDENTS HALF PRICE FOR Wed., Thurs., 8 p.m. Sat., 12 Noon Sun., 6 p.m. SHOWS 
Tickets ON SALE ACC BOX OFFICE Box Office 9a.m.-5p.m. 
.... 
.. 





VOCATION REI REAT 
[p)(LJJ[Pcl~ to help you consider the priesthood in the Congregation of Holy Cross 
[Q)~tf~ Friday, February 26 to Saturday, February 27 7:00p.m. 12:00p.m. ~~~Moreau Seminary 
~~~bycalling the Vocation Office no cost 239-6385 

The Observer -Sports 
Monday, February 15, 1982 -page 10 

Mike Mitchell and the Irish were forced to shoot into a fierce 
-

defense against North Carolina State Saturday. The Irish cap­
tain fared better than any other player, however; scoring a 
team-high ninepoints. (Photo by Carrie Koplan) 
.:
... 
::s 
0 
easy to find
"' 
..... 
easy to get to
l'f"' 
[g) 
south st. 


FORT LAUDERDALE 
SPRING BREAK ada'{s/7 nights lodgong of the beouli11Jl 
Riviera Hotel toc1ng the ocean 1n the heart of Lauderdale! Oceanfront HotEH Optional Party Bus in many areas Poolstde welcome party 
Sports Activities All taxes 
$139 
Party Bus Opflon $ 

Digger grabs a fifth man 
By SKIP DESJARDIN 
Sports Editor 

Digger Phelps made it a perfect quintet over the weekend, getting a verbal commitment from yet anoth­er high school basketball star. 
Phelps has alreay signed a guard, two forwards and a center. Saturday he added a second guard, and assured himselfa startinglineup four vears from now. -The latest to join the fold is 6-2 Seattle native joe Buchanan. The leading scorer in the city, Buchanan is averaging over 21 points per game for O'Day High School. 
"This kid is a great athlete," Phelps said of Buchanan. "He has great ver­satility. He's a good shooter, passer and team leader. He has a good grasp on all the fundamentals ofthe game. 
"We saw him in camp last summer and were very impressed -espe­cially with his physical strength." 
That strength was a key factor in Buchanan's success as a running back during the football season. His talents on the football brought a lot 
Breaktwo records 
Irish runners head for nationals 
ByEARLRIX 
Sports Writer 

The Irish track team broke two school records and qualified one runner for the NCAA championships Friday night en route to a third-place finish at the Big State Meet at Purdue. 
Senior tri-captain Paul Doyle broke his own school record when he pole-vaulted 16-3. Sophomore Ralph Caron broke Bill Clark's 1965 mark of 8:52.7 when he won the two-mile in a time of 8:51.5. Junior 
---.-----·-·-·.._.--·. 
-· 
Needs SMC Reporters Write "Focus" stories and make$. 
Call Cathy ifinterested 277-2244 
The SMC OBSERVER office is open from 
1:30-3:30 M-Th and Sundays 
for classified ads. 


runs thru 
February 27 
E;DISON & IRONWOOD 
hairdesip for the aware •A1nd woMU
r--.----cOuPON·------, I Shampoo & Hair cut 
I : 2 fOf 1Special c~J~~N I I Bring a friend 2for $10 1
L-------COUPON------J 
@REDI<EN
C~ll for an appointment with Robb, Joanne or Paul· 
HOURS: IIION.-1:»5:00 l'lllln.-1:30-1:30 Fri.l:lG-5:30 Slt.-1.-G0-4:00 
Phone 234-6767 
of attention, including that of Irish 
Coach Gerry Faust. 
It also brought a decision as to whether Buchanan would play bas­ketball or football. 
"We're glad joe chose to play bas­ketball, and that he is coming to Notre Dame. I think he'll fit in well with the other freshman who will be with us next vear." 
On paper, the class of 1986 should rival that of 1981. Phelps says that class, which included NBA players Kelly Tripucka, Orlando Woolridge and Tracy jackson was the best he ever coached at Notre Dame. The incoming class on the horizon in­cludes two of the best players in In­diana, an area Phelps has passed over, for the most part, since he took over the irish helm eleven years ago. 
Ken Barlow, a 6-10 center from Cathedral High School in In­dianapolis, is one of the leading can­didates for Indiana's "Mr. Basketball" Award. His team is one of the best in the state. The other In­diana native is 6-4 swingman joe Price of Marion. 
Traditionally, Phelps has looked · East for talent, and this year is no ex-
Jim Moyar was outkicked by In­
diana's All-American Jim Spivey but 
his time of 2:09.5 easily beat the 
NCAA qualifying mark in the 1000­
meter event of 2:10.3. 
These were not the only outstand­
ing performances turned in by the 
Irish in a meet that Head Coach joe 
Piane characterized as, "the best 
team performance we've seen in 
recent years." 
John McCloughan placed second 
to Purdue's Mark Commack in the .60-yard high hurdles. McCloughan's time of 7.53 was only eight­hundredths of a second behind his 
I 
1
···· able to "steal" the 1000 from In­.diana's Jim Spivey if he could get a ) big enough lead at the start of the race. Spivey, who is probably today's ~~ premier coiJegialc miler, figured out what was happt·ning at the 200 yard 
~.: I  mark and went our to catch Moyar. "Moyar ran right with him." said  
~  Pian e. ·'It was the best race ofhis life.  
~  Its a credit to Jim that he v:as that  
•  aggressive to run with someone of  
Spivey's caliber." Moyars 2:09.5 was  
second only to Spivey's blistering  
2:07.8. "He earned his trip to the na­ 
tionals." said Piane.  
When Sophomore Ralph Caron  
crossed the finsh line with a Notre  
Dame record 8:51.5 in the two-mile,  
his friend and teammate, sohomore  
Andy Dillon, wasn't far behind. Dil­ 
lon finished second in a time of8:55.  
Both Caron and Dillon had dis­ 
appointing cross-country seasons,  
but they are making up for it now.  
"They just pounded the same guys  
who beat them during the cross­ 
country season, "said Piane.  
Senior tri-captain Jacques Eady  
placed fourth in the 300 with a time  
of 32.0. Another North Babylon,  
New York native, freshman Mitch  
Van Eyken, placed fifth in the 440  
with a time of50.3.  
Tim Macauley and senior tri­ 
captain Rick Rogers placed fourth  
and fifth respectively in the 880.  
Piane was more than satisfied with  
his team's performance. He pointed  
out that despite the loss of Cannon,  
Bell, Ribera, and Gilmore to injuries,  
tha't the Irish scored more points in  
..  the meet than they did last year.  

"We're just rolling," said Piane. "there is no reason to believe that we can't continue to improve, set more school records and qualify more people for the NCAA's. 
long-time rival. 
Doyle, a decathelete, showed his versatility when he long-jumped 23 feet, two and a half inches to place third. 
Junior Steve Dziabis, at 6-3, 183 pounds, is described by his teamates as a "horse," and this year he has been running like Secretariat. In an­other strong, consistent perfor­mance he placed second in the 440 with a time of 49. 5. He came back to win the 600 in 1:10.9, just one half second offthe NCAA qualifying stan­dard. "He just dominated the race," said Piane. "It waS one of the best nights of running Steve has ever had." 
Jim Moyar thought he might be 
ception. Jim Dolan, a 6-8 power for­ward from Thorn's River, N.J., was one ofthe first players in the country to commit to a school. Dolan and Price, ironically, were co-MVP's at one of the nation's most prestigious summer basketball camps last year. 
The fourth previously committed player is Long Island's Tim Kempton. A 6-9 forward from Oys­ter Bay, Kempton was rated one of the nation's best by Smith's, the so-called "Basketball Bible." 
All of this is great news for Notre Dame basketball fans, but Phelps says he's not through yet. Despite what already may be the best recruiting year of any school in the country. Phdps is still on the lookout. 
"We'rc looking for a quality ath­lete that can make the grades and fit in well with the program," Phelps says. "One rr.ore player would round out the plans we have for the next few years. It would put us right where we want to be as far as plan­ning goes." 


-----~-------------··~----~-----~--~----~~-­
-

IheJJ~er.====================================== 






~~4()l~~•t=============================M=o=n=d=a=y=,F=e=b=r=u=ary==1=5=,=1=9=8=2===p=a=ge===ll
Molarity 

HDW A~f /liE: APPLJCAI/ON!:> Ill Ht=:D Sc.Hrot... 401NI'=f? 


Doonesbury 
7HANK'3 FOR 
5a?RY 'If)()
[YE/:YTHIN6, 
01/JN'T CJTTCH
M&SAM/5 
1/NY FISH, SIR.




Simon 
~CHICif\L. NA~cE Wf WON'T HA~f \D LIVE IN 
lftls omu; ANYMORE 


The Daily Crossword 

©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc All Rights Reserved 
Michael Molinelli 

H~L.Lo, :JOHN HoPKINS NEI> 
5C.IkoL..? ;r'H I>!ON /.VIG¥,£1? OF 111£ PHIL4D£1-PHIA /JJGKEf6 I'H A 6tRAWATI~ 6£N1Dfi; AloJD .5UW£NL-'( P£CID£f>I'[) 
LIKE" TO qO ID H£P ~H()()L 

ACROSS 28 Negative 1 Untruths vote 5 Mother 29 Became 
of foal sicker 9 Custom 31 French 14 Greek clergyman theaters 34 -Semple 15 Slaughter McPherson 
of baseball 35 Musician's 16 More recent job 17 Understand 36 Tropical 18 In a short avifauna 
while 40 Cagers' 
19 "Divine league Comedy" 41 Sympathetic author one 
20 First home 42 Dampens 23 Aged 43 Otis 24 Covered invention 
avenue 45 DiMaggio

Friday's Solution

2115/82 

THANK VERY }-(UCJ.-1. 11lEY 'V£ AaE~P HY 
Garry Trudeau 



Jeb Cashin 
SIMON, YOU 1\\'PLIE()~ ~! YDU Cf'tN'T 1£ ti il£tToR ! 
I 
tiEY, \'VE (;I:)T -r..b HOJRS TO 
Sl'f\R£. 
I 




' Campus · 
•11:15 
a.m., 3:30p.m.-Computer Class, APPLE Fundamentals, M-115 Computer Center/Math Building 

•6 
p.m.-Meeting, "MBA Night," 241 Madeleva Hall, Saint Mary's College 

•7 
p.m.-Presentation, "Reaganomics: The Cur­rent Economic Climate and What It Means," Gil Simonetti, Price Waterhouse Government Uason, Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn, Sponsored by Beta Alpha Psi and NOAA 

•7 
p.m. -Film, "The Man with the Movie Camera," Annenberg Auditorium, Snitc Museum of An, Sponsored by Department of Communication and Theatre, S I admission 

•7:30 
p.m.-Lecture, "The Way Religious Stories Work," Rev. john Shea, St. Mary of the Lake.Semi­nary, Carroll Hall Auditorium, Madcleva Hall, Saint Mary's College 

•9 
p.m. -Film, "Touch of Evil," Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art, Sponsored by Department of Communication and Theatre, $1 admission 



· T.V. Tonight . 
7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 
9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10:00p.m. 
10:30p.m. ll:OOp.m. 
11:30p.m. 
!2:00a.m. 12:30p.m. 
. Today in History 
Today's highlight in history: 
In 1922, the Permanent Court ofInternational justice 
held its first session at the Hague. 
On this date: 
In 1789, the Roan Republic was proclaimed by the 
French after the capture of Rome. 
In 1944, U.S. troops completed their reconquest of 
the Solomon Islands in the Pacific during World War IL 
In 1963, several people, including three French Army 
officers, were arrested in France on <:harges of plotting 
to assassinate President Charles de Gaulle. 
16 MASH 22 CBSNl"ws 28 Jokl"r's Wild 34 '!'he MacNdl/Ll"hrl"r Rl"port 46 Bdil"Vl"rs VoiCl" ofViciOI')' 16 The Mupp<:t Show 22 Family fl"ud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 16 Little Housl" On Thl" Praril" 22 Mr. Ml"rlin 28 That's lncrl"dibk 34 Grc:at Pl"rformancl"S 46 ll"stl"r Sumrall Tl"aching 22 Privati." Bl"njamin 46 Blackwood Brothl"rs 16 Johnny Goc:s Homl" 22 MASH 28 ABC Movil": "Thl" Jerk" 34 Bc:rnstdn/Bl"l"thovl"n 46 Today With lestl"r Sumrall 22 House: Calls 22 lou Grant 34 Profiles in Amc:rican Art 46 Jimmy Swaggart Dally 34 Tom Cottle 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness Nl"ws 28 Newswatch 28 34 The: Dick Cavett Show 46 Praise Thl" lord 16 Tonight Show 22 Quincy and Columbo 
28 ABC News Nightlinl" 34 Captioned ABC News 28 ABC Movie:: "Valentine" 46 Monday Night Basketball NCAA 16 late: Night with David Letterman 46 Blackwood Brothers 
,.._ 
• 
47 Secondhand transaction 48 Ziegfeld 
specialty 52 Milton opus 55 Mediterra­
nean fruit 58 Custom 59 Heraldic 
term 60 "I want­
..
just... 61 Russian sea 62 Mobvio· 
lance 63 Coax 64 Ivy League 
school 65 Weakens 
DOWN 1 Smithy 2 Utopian 3 Vandyke 4 Made 
unhappy 5 Penuriously 6 Vex 7 Ceiling 8 Thrall 
of yore 9 Below ocean surface 10 Rap ses­
sion? 11 Arista 12 Obtain 13 Before 
21 Timeof note 22 Courageous one 25 Dickinson of film 
26 Advocate of human reason 
27 Advantages 29 Windshield 
adjunct 30 Tentmaker 31 Capp's hero 32 Sacred book 33 Scottish 
hillsides 34 Hairstyle 37 That can 
be climbed 38 Horse 
opera 39 Residents 44 Fogs 45 Elbow 46 Bullfight 
sound 48 Last 49 Ancient 
region 50 Bar legally 51 Printer's 
terms 53 Not home 54 Dumb one 55 Feline 56 Mature 57 Inlet 

· BUT WHAT DOES THE STUDENT UNION RECORD STORE HAVE FOR ME? 
CHEAPER PRICES PRICES .. · Save 24-32% off list prices! MOST CURRENT SINGLES-S6.50 (compare at S8.99 list). Cut-outs ... $2.98 to S5.98 
CONVENIENCE...The NDSU Record Store is located on the Main floor of LaFortune and is open 10-4 PLUS-ordered albums take 1 week only! 
GREAT SELECTION ... Springsteen, Fogelberg, Moody Blues, Stevie Nicks, Cristopher Cross, Pat Benatar, Journey, and many more. 
ALSO ... recorded and blank tapes available. 


Monday, February 15, 1982 -page 12 

McNamara sparkles in sweep 
By MICHAEL OLENIK "It really felt great to get the nered affair, as the referees saw fit to Sports Writer shutout, but I can't help but say how whistle 2 I penalties -I3 of which well our team played defensively. 1 were against the Irish. It was a good 
It is quickly becoming apparent to had a good look at almost every shot, thing for Ferris too, as the Bulldogs the rest of the CCHA that Notre and that makes things much easier scored each of their four goals Dame has a hockey team to be for me." during the ensuing powerplays, reckoned with. By virtue of its 5-4 .Good defense means not only including two during the last four and 6-0 sweep of Ferris State this solid play by defensemen, but ag­minutes. past weekend in Big Rapids, Michi­gressive backchecking by the for­However, it was again a well­gan, the Irish have captured sole wards. And whether it was the line balanced attack for the Irish that possession offifth place, and are but centered by John Deasey, Mark proved to be the difference in the a half ofgame from fourth, with four Doman, Rex Bellomy or Dave outcome. In fact, four of the five 
lt'ague games to go. Poulin, the Irish were continually goals were scored by a different line 
To say the least, Notre Dame's swarming the Ferris State attackers. -a sign that the depth needed for a play of late has been masterful. In "We were doing an outstanding successful team might just be fact, the Irish now stand with a 18-job in almost every department, and developing on the Irish bench. 
12-2 record for the season, includ­it was very impressive how After Ferris jumped to a 1-0 lead in ing a I 0-3-1 mark dating back to the everyone contributed to the effort, " the first period on a goal by Randy Great Lakes Tournament last remarked Smith afterwards. "I Merrifield, Doman and Poulin December. Presently, Lefty Smith's would have to say that this might sandwiched scores around Mer­
crew is riding a five game winning have been our best game of the rifield's second tally of the night in streak that has left three different entire year." the second period, and the Irish teams scratching their heads. Dave Poulin got the show started found themselves entering the final Rick Duffet's Bulldogs will surely at the I0: I 0 mark of the first period stanza with a 2-2 tie. 
attest to that. After losing a 5-4 slug­when he picked up a nice drop pass Perry took care of that problem fest on Friday, his team came out from Sean Regan at the Ferris quickly, however, when he wristed a hard and fast on Saturday with blueline and strolled in on Bulldog high shot past Hughston after Bel­thoughts of salvaging a series split. Rob Hughston before putting a hard lomy won a face-off to the netmin­
Unfortunately, the Irish had some wrist-shot past the netminder's der's right just 69 seconds into the ideas of a sweep, and by playing glove. period. probably their best game thus far, Hughston came up empty against Bjork made a great play 
ten put the Bulldogs away in nothing Poulin again in the second period minutes later when he skated almost less than impres~ive fashion. when the senior center snapped an­the length of the ice and flipped the 
From start to finish, the Irish other shot into the cage on a two-on­puck over Hughston's shoulder for a thoroughly dominated the same Fer­4-2 Irish lead. 
one break started byJohn Schmidt. ris State team that had swept them The long-awaited return of Jeff The game-winner came shortly af­last November at the ACC. Most im­
Perry gave the Irish something to terwards when John Higgins poked portantly though, it was a total team celebrate when the senior wing in a cross-ice feed from Brent Chap­effort that left the Bulldogs with tipped in a pretty feed from Kirt man, a freshman who continues to their first shutout in I I 0 games. Bjork less than a minute later, and play heads-up hockey on a line with Of course, Bob McNamara 
the Irish began to sense the rout. Higgins and Deasey. deserved much of the credit, as he Hughston left for the showers Ferris made a run at it in the turned away 26 shots for the first in­when Doman beat him with a low waning moments, but McNamara dividual shutout for the Irish since slapshot from the right side at the kicked out some high pressure shots Len Moher turned the trick back in I3:49 mark of the middle period with the score at 5-4 to secure a 1978. But McNamara with Dave Lucia and Schmidt on the well-earned victory.
even was
Marc Kelly and Chuck Nevitt serve as an apt commentary on 
quick to point out that the ac­assists, and backup John Morris With the sweep, the Irish could
Notre Dame's 20-point loss to North Carolina State Saturday 
complishment was not a one man ef­callle in to ~ace the onslaught. very vault into the Top 10 this week,
night. (Photo by Cheryl Ertelt) 
fort. He was relatively succc as and with highly-ranked Michigan Notre Dame struck for two more 
State slated for a home and home goals for the remainder of the con­
series this week, Notre Dame is in
Winby20 

good position to make the ACC the by Dan Collard. And in both cases, it test -one by Bellomy and the other 
site offirst round playoffaction. 'was the extra effort by each player 
And such a situation is a definite


Wolfpack devours Notre Dame 
possibility, especially ifthe Irish can come up with a few more of what 
that made the icing on the cake a 
little thicker.
While N.C. State was doing the Three of those fouls were chargee\
By SKIP DESJARDIN Doman succinctly termed " just a
Friday's game was distinctly dif­Sports Editor _complete team win."
right things, Notre Dame seemed to to 7-5 center Chuck Nevitt in the ferent from Saturday's mild man-
be falling apart at the seams. Not a first half. single player scored in double "We told Chuck that Andree's
Digger Phelps walked into the figures, with Mike Mitchell leading game was power, and not finesse,"
press room with his ever-present the club by scoring nine points. Valvano told reporters. "All we 

Women come alive, 
Tab, sat down, shook his head, and "Going in, we felt we had to con­wanted him to do was stand behind
smiled an all-too-familiar smile of trolJohn Paxson," Valvano said. "We Andree with his hands in the air.
frustration. wanted to see ifthe rest of the team When a guy who's 7-5 does that, he's
"Happy Valentine's Day," he said. 

dotvn Cincinnati 
could beat us. So we played a 1-3 as good as an II foot obstacle.
• "Now I know how AI Capone felt." defense with what we call a chaser." "But Chuck got it into his head
Notre Dame's Joss to North pulled down nine rebounds to lead
that he had to block a lot of shots, By MARK HANNUKSELA 
Carolina State didn't quite have the The chaser was Dereck Whitten­the Irish in that department.
and he decided to start jumping. We Sports Writer 
look of Chicago's famous gangland burg, who sacrificed his usual posi­After a 19-7 spurt pulled Notre
finally told him that all he had to do
was a

massacre, but it not pretty Dame out ofan eight-point hole and
tion as the Wolfpack's leading scorer was plant his feet and stand there." AI McGuire, the color-sight. The Irish went over I I and a 
to play Paxson tighter than anyone into a 33-29 halftime lead, the Irish
Phelps had a good deal of praise commentator-who-would-be­half minutes without a basket during 
has all year. The defense was Val­came out smoking for the second of
for Valvano and the Wolfpack after coach, says "the three most
one stretch of the second half, and vano's own variation of a box-and­Mr. McGuire's three important time
the game. important times of a game are the
the Wolfpack ran away with a 62-42 one, and it worked almost to slots, outscoring the Bearcats 10-2
"North Carolina State's record is first three minutes of the game, the
win. perfection, as Paxson could manage over the first five minutes of the
deceptive because of all the strong first three minutes of the secondState was just too tall, too fast, and 
only eight points. second halfto take a 4.3-31 lead. 
teams on the schedule," he said of half, and the last three minutes oftheplayed defense too well for the Irish Schueth and Matvey each con­game."
to have a chance. Their own defense As it had last Sunday in Los An-the team that has still lost just one tributed four points in the stretch asMary DiStanislao, the women's­was all that kept them in the game geles, though, the patient offense game outside the Atlantic Coast 
the Irish seized control of the game, 
through the first half, as they con­employed by Phelps proved as cost-Conference. "State belongs in the basketball-coach-who-likes-her-job­something DiStanislao says her clubjust-fine-thank-you, says "Two out of
tinually frustrated State's attempts to ly as it was profitable. Two Tim NCAA tournament. 
hasn't done in the last five. 
three ain't bad." 
get the ball inside to a front line that Andree free throws gave Notre For his own team, Phelps had no After eight straight points got theAfter a shaky start, DiStanislao'sstood 7-5, 6-II, and 6-7. Dame a 22-20 lead with 6:I4 to go in such claims. He did however, offer a Bearcats to within three, 55-52, withwomen's basketball team found its"They played a good defensive the first half, but the Irish never prediction. 
a shade over five minutes remaining,
groove, and rolled to a very impor­
~ game in the first half," said Wolfpack scored again before intermission. "We will steal an NIT bid," he told 
tant 67-58 victory over Cincinnati
Coach Jim Valvano, whose teamed Coupled with the dry spell ofalmost reporters. 
Saturday in the ACC.
upped their record to 18-6. "They I2 minutes in the second half, Notre But whether Phelps can pull a 
Now 16-4, and harboring hopes of
made quick, smart adjustments that Dame was without a basket for al-post-season tourney out ofhis sleeve 
an NCAA tournament bid, Notre
had our guys confused. But we made most an entire half. is now a real question. After a num­
Dame needed a win against an es­
some corrections ofour own, and it When all was said and done, Val-ber of encouraging performances, 
tablished program like Cincinnati's,
worked." vano orchestrated a near-perfect the Irish offense has disappeared. 
and got it, thanks to some gutsy play
Valvano credited his defense with game. The Wolfpack turned the ball There are still tough games to come, 
by a host oflrishmen.
winning the game, saying that the over just four times in the whole with teams like Seton Hall, South 
Freshman Mary Beth Schueth
whole team plays better t when the game, they slowed the ball down Carolina, Dayton and, of course, 
scored 1 7 points, Laura Dougherty
defense is working. when they were comfortably ahead, DePaul. 
matched a career-high 1 5 despite
"When we're playing well made the right defensive adjust-So far, illusions have kept a team 
taking an elbow in the face late in the
defensively, everything clicks," he ments when Notre Dame seemed to with precious little raw talent in a lot 
first half, and Shari Matvey added 10,
said. "We tend not to get as rushed at be working the ball inside with some of ballgames. Now Phelps must 
although she attracted more atten­
the other end of the floor, and we success, used their height to a great come up with an offense that will 
tion for her defense.
simply play better, smarter basket­advantage, and committed just supply the dazzling finish necessary 
Matvey and Ruth Kaiser each
ball." seven personal fouls. to pull off the entire trick. 
DiStanislao's club seized control See WOMEN, page 9 
INSIDE 

Trackp.lO Recruitp.10 Wrestling p.9 Inter hall p. 9 

~----------------~------------~----------------~--------------------­






