.Nuke blast research -page 8 

VOL XVII, NO. 27 the rntkpcmlt-nt ~tudcntlln\~papl-r ~cning notre dame and saint mary's FRIDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1982 
Cluster bomb 
Marine dies in Lebanon explosion 

BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP)-An un­exploded part of a cluster bomb blew up at Beirut airport yesterday, killing one U.S. Marine and wound­ing three others who tripped on it, 
U.S. military spokesmen said. 
The casualties were reported after several hundred Marines waded ashore to help guard the field just reopened by President Amin Gemayel. 
One of the survivors was in serious condition with groin injuries and the other two were slightly wounded. the spokesmen said. 
The casualties were the first suf­fered by the Marines since they were deployed in Beirut this summer to help oversee the evacuation of Palestine Liberation Organization guerrillas from the Israeli-ringed city. The Marines returned Wednes­day on their second peacekeeping mission. 
President Reagan reacted with "shock and sorrow," but said the casualties would have no effect on the U.S. commitment to remain in Lebanon until Israeli and Syrian troops are out and the government is in control, White House Deputy Press Secretary Larry Speakes said in Washington. 
Gemayel officially opened the air­port after a nearly four-month shut­down following a ceremony before U.S., Italian and French peacekeep­ing forces in which he proclaimed Lebanon's capital a "unified city," free oflsraeli troops in both the Mos­lem western sector and the Chris-

Tainted Tylenol kills three 
ARLINGTON HEIGHTS, Ill. (AP) Washington that investigators had -Three people in two Chicago sub-been sent to the Pennsylvania plant urbs died ofcyanide poisoning after where Tylenol is made. "We are still swallowing tainted capsules of gathering information," she said. Extra-Strength Tylenol, and a search Dr_ Edmund R. Donoghue, deputy began yesterday for the source and assistant medical examiner of Cook extent of the contamination. Nearly •::ounty, said two brothers in Ar­
4.7 million pills were promptly :ington !-!eights and a 12-year-old recalled by the manufacturer. girl in neighboring Elk Grove Village 
A fourth person was hospitalized died _within 1 1 hours of each other in extremely critical condition, ap-Wednesday from cardio-pulmona~~­paently after taking one of tho:: collapse after taking Extra-Strength capsules. Tylenol capsules. He said an inves-
Robert Kniffen, -a spokesman fo·· gation "definitely confirmed the McNeil Consumer Products Co., the presence of cyanide" in the over-manufacturer of Tylenol. said the the-counter pain reliever. company had been notified that two Donoghue identified the tainted bottles of Extra-Strength Tylenol Tylenol as lot number MC2880 in Capsules "have been tampered with SO-capsule containers. and added, and cyanide poison added to some "We d()n't know the extent of the ofthe capsules." contamination, hut we don't think 
In a statement, Kniffen said no anybody should he taking Extra-product from lot MC2880 should he Strength (Tylenol) at aiL" bought or consumed until further The two brothers died at ~:IS notice, adding that the company has p.m. and 8:1 S p.m. (COT) Wednes­no evidence any other product was day as a result ofcyanide poisoning. contaminated. The child died at approximately 10 
He said the recalled lot contained a.m. Wednesday. The neighboring 9 ~.-lOO bottles of SO capsules each suburbs where they lived are both and that they had been distributed about 2S miles northwest of east of the Mississippi as well as in downtown Chicago. North Dakota, South Dakota, "There is no relation between the Nebraska and in part of Wyoming. households and that's why we tind The expiration date was April 1987. this so disturbing," Donoghue said. 
Two large drug chains, jewel He added, "It would he foolish to Food-Osco Drugs and Walgreens, assume that the bottles were tam-announced an immediate halt in pered with in the home.". sales ofthe product in their :\tidwest "-It is impossible to tell when the stores. State oftkials said they would tampering occurred." said Dr. Mic: decide later in the day whether to hac! Schafter, chieftoxicologist with order Extra-Strength Tylenol oft· the medical examiner's oftke. "We store shelves. tested three capsules from each con-
Food and Drug Administration tainer of SO and one of the three spokeswoman Faye Peterson said in from each contained cyanide." 
Arlington Heights Police Chief Rodney L. Kath said his department's investigation was pointing toward contamination of individual bottles of Tylenol rather than whole batches. He refused to elaborate. 
Kath recruited village firefighters to join his ~fficers in contacting mer­chants selling Tylenol. He satd the officers were waiting at stores when they opened yesterday mornmg and that merchants were told _to take Extra-Strength Tylenol oft thetr shelves. 
The investigation began. Wednes­day following the death of 12-year­old Mary Kellerman. who had been taking Extra-Strength Tylenol be­cause of a cold. She was found un­·conscious in her home and died after being taken hy paramedics to Alexian Brothers Medical Center in Elk Grove Village. 
"All we know is that she had a cold and a sore throat," said Shirley Gar­rison, a spokeswoman for the hospi­tal. 
The brothers were identified by a spoke~ woman at Northwest Com­munity Hospital in Arlington Heights as Adam Janus, 27, and Stan­ley Janus, 2S. 
Roy Dames, a spokesman for the Cook County coroner's office, said autopsies would be performed. The presence ol cyanide was determined through blood tests. 
Seven other members oftheJanus 
family were rushed to the hospital, 
but six were being kept "for on­
sen·ation" and apparently were not 
poisoned. hospital officials said. 
See 1YLENOL, page 5 

tian east. 
A red and white Middle East Airlines jet, with Lebanon's flag flying from the cockpit window, landed at the airport to the applause and cheers of about 300 bystanders, who tearfully embraced relatives setting foot on their native soil for the first time since Israel invaded June 6. 
Hours after the jet touched down, an explosion rocked the southwest end of the runway nearest the Mediterranean. The blast occurred at about 4:45p.m. ( 10:45 a.m. EDT). 
Marine Lt. Gregory van Houten said the explosion occurred when the men tripped on part or parts ofa cluster bomb, an anti-personnel weapon. He said each part thrown 
Stopgap spending bill passed before deadline 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Opting measure on an evening when major instead for an evening of political social events were scheduled for partying, Congress abandoned its both Democrats and Republicans. race against the clock yesterday to The Democratic Party had a keep the government from going S 1 ,000-per-person fundraising din­broke upon the midnight start of the ner that many members ofCongress new fiscal year. were expected to attend. And Presi­
But negotiators for the House and dent Reagan invited the entire Senate reached agreement on a com­Congress to a barbecue at the White promise spending measure they said House in what amounted to a coun­would win swift approval today, and terevent dominated by Republicans. a Reagan administration spokesman said there probably would be no in­The stopgap spending plan will 
terruption of regular government keep the entire government in busi­operations. ness until Dec. 1'.1, thereby assuring 
Although agreement on the com­a post-election session of Congress promise bill came several hours in which lawmakers will debate the before the midnight deadline, con­regular money bills that have not yet gresional leaders decided against a 
See CLOCK, page 5late-night session to pass the 

~tudent burned in London accident 
By TIM VERCELLOTTI 
News Editor 
A student in Notre Dame's Arts and Letters London Program is presently hospitalized for burns suffered in an accident that oc­currrd earlier this week, according to a university official. 
Isabel Charles, assistant provost and director of Notre Dame's foreign study programs, said last night that Lynn Malooly, a junior from Chicago, Ill., recieved burns early Tuesday morning when her nightgown caught fire from a gas heater in her room at the Hotel Vienna, the student residence in London. 
Malooh· is now in the burn unit in Mt. Vernon Hospital, in Northwo~d Middlesex, an area northwest of London, Charles said. 
Sister Jane Pitz, the rector in the women's building at the hotel complex, was next door at the time ofthe accident and heard Maloo­l.y's cries."She came in and wrapped Lynn in bedclothes. The fire was put out very quickly," Charles said. 
Pitz and Prof. Richard Foley, director ofthe London program, took Malooly to a London hospital. She was later transferred to the burn unit at Mt. Vernon, Charles explained. "She has been in excellent care there," Charles said. 
Though the extent of Malooly's injuries is as yet undetermined, "she ha-s passed through the 4!-1-hour critical period very well," Charles noted. 
According to Charles, Malooly ha-s spoken to her parents hy telephone, and her parents plan to fly to London this weekend to be with her. 
Charles said that it is too early to tell whether Malooly will return to her studies in London. "There ha-s been no decision hy the doctors as to the time of recuperation," she explained. 
The assistant provost praised Pitz's quick action in putting out the fire. "It was extraordinarily good that Sister Jane was so close. She performed her duties very well," Charles said. 
out by the cluster bomb is "pressure sensitive. If you jar it, or hit it, or in any way disturb it, it will explode." 
Cluster bombs supplied to Israel by the Reagan administration were dropped on west Beirut by Israeli jets this summer, causing a public uproar in the llnited States, which then temporarily suspended ship­ment of the bombs to Israel. 
Army Lt. Col. Lee Delorme, a Pen­tagon spokesman in Beirut, said in a written statement that one Marine was killed and three were injured, one seriously, "when some unex­ploded ordnance was accidentally detonated .. .The incident was not the result of hostile action." 
See MARINE, page 3 


.. ~----­
___,_______.--~------------------~------­
~---------~--~---~-------­
Friday, October 1, 1982 -page 2

News Brief§ 
By The Uhsen•e1· and !he Assucittled Press 
The condition of Kerin Mannion has im­
proved to fair, according to a St. Joseph Medical Center spokes­
Daydream Believers 
woman. Mannion was removed from the intensive care unit of the 
hospital yesterday aftr his condition had improved from serious. An­other student, Elizabeth Mcinerny, remains in serious condition in Memorial Hospital. Mcinerny was removed from the intensive care unit yesterday a hospital spokeswoman said. Both students were hospitalized Sunday morning after being hit by a car in the 1400 block ofSouth Bend Avenue. The Observer 
Jewelry once owned by convicted pornographer Mike Thevis will be sold to help pay S16 million in back taxes, the Internal Revenue Service says. Les Whitmer,IRS regional spokesman in Atlanta, said the rings, necklaces and wristwatches will be sold at auction Oct. 13 in New York City to help pay taxes owed by Thevis, his former wife, joan, and a Thevis company. The jewelry's appraised value is S179,000. The jewelry, originally a gift from Thevis to his former wife, was returned to him six years ago for legal fees. The IRS seized the jewelry when Thevis was captured in 1978 after escaping from prison. Thevis is imprisoned on racketeering and murder con­spiracy convictions. -AP 
American Motors Corporationwill close an 
assembly line at its Toledo, Ohio, Jeep assembly plant next week, temporarily idling 1,000 of 4,000 hourly workers there, a company spokesman said yesterday in Detroit. Lloyd Northard said the one­week shutdown of one assembly line will help the No. 5 U.S. automaker adjust inventories ofits C) jeep line. AMC sales ofjeeps in the United States so far this year through August total 42,109, down 
1.6 percent from 42,794 the year earlier. Some 1,350 hourly workers at the Toledo plant already are on indefinite layoff, Nor­thard said. -AP 
The arrest Of a mant who allegedly used Doberman pinschers to burglarize houses in Mineola, New York, has closed the books on more than 80 crimes, police said yesterday. Daniel Sar­degna, 27, of Massapequa, was arrested Wednesday. He faces two charges in two house burglaries on Long Island, but officials say the arrest has closed more than 80 similar burglaries. Police said Sar­degna would break into a house with two dog t s and send one to determine whether it was safe for him to proceed. He would then station the dogs outside so they would bark if anyone approached, officers said. -AP 
Five people, including a former Bolivian consul, have been charged with smuggling S7 million worth of cocaine in what police said yesterday was an international operation headed by a Bolivian army coloneL Detective Paulo Gustavo Magalhaes Pinto said police armed with machine guns burst into a farmhouse in Sao Paulo, Brazil and made the arrests Tuesday. The smugglers had rented a remote landing strip from a farmer, who tipped police, and had just unloaded 220 pounds of cocaine from a small airplane, Magalhaes said. Magalhaes identified the gang leader as Ruben Julio Saucedo, 33, who was a consul in Brazil and whose father, Ruben Julio Castro, had been president ofthe Senate in La Paz, Bolivia. The others arrested were identified as Alcides Arzadum Suarez, 51, and Carlos Alberto Roc a Franco, 31, both from Bolivia; and Franciso de Souza Farias, 39, and Carlos Antonio Marques, 28, both from BraziL The name ofthe Bolivian colonel allegedly heading the international operation was not given. -AP 
Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher wm 
visit the Falkland Islands in February to celebrate I50 years ofBritish rule of the South Atlantic i.';lands, press reports said yesterday. Thatcher's office said only that she "hopes" to go. It would be her t1rst trip to the Falklands, which Britain and Argentina waged war over this spring. The Foreign Oftke said Minister of State Cranley Onslow, a deputy to Foreign Secretary !'rands Pym, will leave t<>r the Falkland Islands this weekend on a fact-t1nding tour. -AP 
Actress Brooke Shields says her work ror the American Lung Association's anti-smoking campaign is personal, not professional. "I am participating as myself But when I'm playing a part in a movie, it's my profession. They are totally two different areas," she said Wednesday night at a gathering sponsored by the lung association ofConnecticut. Shields, !..,, who wore cigarettes in her ears tor one anti-smoking poster, said two of her grandparents died of smoking. She said she has received fan mail from teenagers saying they have quit smoking because of the ad campaign in which she took part, adding, "It's all been very positive." After her ap­pearance, Shields and her mother, Teri, climbed into a van for the three-hour trip to their New jersey home. "She has school tomor­row," her mother said. -AP 
Partly sunnytoday and continued warm. Highs near 80. Partly cloudy tonight and tomorrow. Lows tonight in the mid 50s. Highs tomorrow in the upper 70s to around 80. -AP 
He was an old man, and he'd been drinking too long. Not that he was obnoxious; on the contrary, he was quite well-behaved, especially in comparison to the rest ofthe clientele at Senior Bar. 
Still, his comments had acquired that syrupy, nostal­gic tone that alcohol seems to induce in the reminis­cences ofold men. 
On this Friday night, the eve ofthe reunion ceremony honoring the 1977 National Championship football team, such sentimentality was, I suppose, excusable ­even if fluid-based. 
Besides, the old man was generous enough to grab two cups from my hand as I struggled through the line to the taps, and to buy a round for me and a friend (a member of the championship team, no less). 
Appreciative of the kindness, I handed my friend his brew and paused to share tales of the glory of Notre Dame with the old gent. He was perched at the end of the bar with an apparently long-time friend also under the mellowing influence of barley and hops, recalling a never-quite-reallrish past. 
He spoke in glowing phrases of the legends he had followed since 1928. He recalled the magical days when, as an impressionable teenager, he had first been 
drawn by the heroes of  --,:-:c.;,  
gridiron past.  ··:;,,;(:;.  
Now, as a 65-year-old sub­ 
way alum, he had made the  
trek to South Bend to catch a  
glimpse offuture heroes.  
He had taken his friend to  
the Grotto to give the friend  
a feel for that "other­ 
worldness" of Notre Dame  
that transcends the football  
field. As luck or the brothers  
Grimm might have it, Coach  
Gerry Faust was there,  
taking time out from his  
pressure-packed day to  
meet quietly with his Maker. _:_  
And so the legends grow.  
The old man might have  
been my father, with his lack  
of "higher" education and  

his "this-one's-on-me" state of inebriation -and his simple belief in a dream-perfect University located in South Bend. It's funny how the faults and delusions of fatherly men can become lovable to a son. 
I could not bring myself to point out flaws in the old man's perception of this place. I was in the midst oftoo many heroes: members of that championship team were everywhere; two ofthem were even staying at my apartment. They were all walking around, bigger than life, telling how their hearts skipped a beat as they drove by the Dome as they arrived for this special weekend, 
While I stood in the midst of heroes pondering my inability to believe in the splendor of the old man's image of my second home, our conversation was inter­rupted by a recent graduate. 
He was a young man, and he'd been drinking too long. And he was obnoxious. His comments had that animalistic stupidity that alcohol seems to induce in the offerings o~· young men. 
Such behavior, even though fluid-based, was inex­cusable. 
\-4 lh.l I. ·l'HI 'IJ\.J UIF.t'' 
CCUIWHIJNIICAiliiCUN 1
The Observer 

~......---0li~EAil[r(IC
nesi!{tl Edilr~r .. ... ~zan l.a Croi x~ki /Jesil-{11 A~·sistant Pzt:"tt.: \\'hilt:~ki Tzom ~mall ski 

"' lfi[2111()A\'o/ lfllll~\ ~~~1[2111t~
October 1
Lli)'OU/ Staff..... . .......... :><zo-body,ki 
1)•peseller.'\ ............................\1zooooo~ki 

The Paaaenger 1~ 9751 M1che1ange1o Anton1on1 Italy color 119 
'l't.t)!ll .\t;u.:l.ennan·ski .\'ews Editor.. .. ......... Mzikt· \X'ilkin:-.!...i 

An1on1on• takes a11enat1on to •ts IOg1ca1 con(:luS10n 1n th1s moody thriller 
Cupy Editor .. . .... Tt.im ~l·el) :-.ki 

starr~ng Jack N•cholson as a.burned-out r~porter w'1o escapes h•s owr
Features /.aJ'out ........Jzoe \hl...,e,mcci:-.h.i 

•dent•t·J only to lind deadly r,sks •n the one he adopts Adm, · · 
Sports ,\llfJfJleml'/lt... . Szkip ll~'jardin,ki 

· ' ISSIOn 
Editorials l-ayout. . . .......... f\zc:n 

Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum $ 2. o o 
\ports Cnpy J:'tlilor... ..... Ed1 i\.onrad~ ...,!...i 7 J'fJisl.. .,. IJ.aura l>q.,:nau-,kl 

~---lr ~u ~ Jlt13Jillr--__,
\IJ /Jar Editor.. . Czindy <:old1ron:-.ki \'.\IC /J~iy /:(/itur ..... ( ,J.reg :-,wiert·l:-.ki Ad IJeS(f!.ll...... . Bt.oh "'\lo1a~k1 Pbotop,rafJht•r.. ... ~1.1.:on Bower,ki 

Audio consultant to speak on 
Guest..tppearances .... Dzarhy. I>t-an:( of cour!'.l' ), _lzt."h, ~1t.aura. Tzari. Ht) an. 

advances in musical technology 
Pzaul, C1.hn!-. 
. .all gone to fool..• for America 

On October 1, Paul R Matwiy will be giving a seminar, complete with demonstrations. on what music is and how audio technology affects music. 
The Observer 1USf'S •,yg '1.!0• ,, fJUbll .... hPrl Ml Jnr1d y ltlriiU(jtl ~I I' ld" rHld 

He is an audio consultant to the Denver Technical 
t'n hl1rnp hJrlHJ.III Sdturrf<~y•, I'X( !'pi 

Center, and has been in a\,Jdio retailing, both1 
rlunnq exrl'Tl r1n(j VrH d!lilll ~)f'fllllh The Observer" putJIIshPr1 IJy ltH· •;tui1Pnh 

home and professional, for nearly a decade. He 
of Notre Dcl'nf'l df1c1 Sciml M.-trv <.;(pi lege Sub~1 np!!Uil.'::. •nny tH• purr tld!->t•l1 

has sold hi-fi to musicians such as Judy Collins for $25 ppr ye~r IS15 pt•r ""nPslf'rJ tJy wr~llng The Observer P 0 B<>x 0 
and Dan Fogelberg. The talk will include tapes of 
Notre Da•ne lnd•and 46556 

live music performed by Jim Messina and
The Observer 1; " ·n.-·nbpr "' The Associated Press A11 rppr<~r1Ul 111 1n 

McGuinn, Clark and Hillman. Seminar times will 
fiQhtS arE' resE'rv('(j · Second r lass pustdgro ~.>c-i111 r11 Nr 1trt• 

be 3 p.m. and at 7 p.m. at Audio Specialists, 401 
Dame tnd•~na 46556 . 

N. Michican in South Bend. 
~ 
Systems Manager ~. 
Inside Friday 
lie announced himself with drunken pride as a mem­ber ofthe class of'82, and introduced the young woman at his side as a student at Saint Mary's. 
He quickly misinterpreted the old man as saying he was a member of rhe class of '28, and began shouting something to his drunken friends about "this guy played tor us in 1928." 
And, for every memory the old man made into words, the young man had an under-the-breath comment for the smiling woman at his arm. 
For the most part, the old man was too lost in his misty, marvelous recollections of an impossible place to catch most ofthe young man's disrespect. 
But I caught every intimation of arrogance issuing from this brash simpleton who received his degree 
-from my alma mater. I found myself wanting to gr_ab the young man and prop him up in front of the old man, in or­der that I might say to the old man: "This is the part of your view of Notre Dame that is missing! This happens every weekend, to far too many of us." 
I wanted to take the young fool to the Dome, in order that I might shout from that Olympus: "This man is not a member of the 
...___.<""'..___ minority at Notre Dame. He is not one of the few bad eggs; he is one of the many drunken, arrogant children who destroy dormitory 
property and Northeast Neighborhood lawns every weekend." 
I wanted to take the young man and the old man and put them in a room together andmake them talk to each other. I wanted the young man to absorb some of the old man's love for the University. 
And I wished the young man's condition would impress upon the old man that some of the Dome's glit­ter is just artificial light. 
As 1 was trying to arrive at a synthesis of the true nature ofmy alma mater, the old man mentioned that he did not yet have tickets for the game. 
I told him my friend, one of those championship players, had a pair of tickets he didn't need. My friend sold the old fellow the tickets at face value. 
And so legends grow. 
I left Senior Bar that night wondering why I ever wanted to change the ways ofdaydream believers, and thinking of two drunken men -one a Domer without the piece of paper to prove it, and the other a disgrace to his sheepskin. 
Back home, I slept comfortably, without dreams. 

-------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer 
Academics, tickets 
Newr transfers adapt easily 
By MIKE LEPRE 
StaffReporter 
Transfer students at Notre Dame are adapting to life at the University more easily in 1982 than in past 
years_ 
"In the past, transfers have been treated as second-class students, but lately things are beginning to change for the better," remarked Annie Bodoh, director of transfer student operation. 
Bodoh, herself a transfer student as a sophomore. admits that in some cases being a transfer has its shortcomings. One example ofthi t s is in housing. 
Current University policy on housing, as stated in this year's DuLac, states, "Transfer students are asked to live off-campus unless spe­cial permission is provided to live on campus by the Director of Housing." As a result, transfers are required to seek their own housing until an on­campus room becomes available. 
While Bodoh feels that "this 
problem is certainly understand­
able," she also thinks that as a result 
of the housing dilemma, many trans­
fers "miss out on the community 
aspect of living in a dorm, an aspect 
which is so vital at Notre Dame." 
Another issue raised by Bodoh 
concerns distribution of football 

SMC clubs receive allocated monies 
By MARY ANN POTTER included. among other things, the News Staff club's constitution, past financial statements, and projected budget. 
A total of S4400 will be allocated In addition to the allocation form, to the 20 Saint Mary's clubs that took the club had to fill out a registration part in Saint Mary's Allocation Night form. a new procedure this year. The last night. registration form is used to keep cur­
The money, which comes from rent account of the club. student government funds, is The number of organizations that granted to the clubs by the alloca­
applied fo.r student government 

tion committee. A representative funds this year was about the same as from each club met with the com­mittee during Allocation Night to past years. "We lost a couple from discuss the financial needs of their last year, but we did pick up four club. new clubs," commented Micheline 
The allocation· committee bases Santello, student government their decision on such things as the treasurer. purpose of the club, the population Each club or organization that of students they wor~ with, in­participated in Allocation Night will dividual student government goals, be notified within a week oftheir ex­and the funds that the clubs have act allocation for the school year. been allocated in previous years. The clubs have the right to appeal 
As in the past, each club had to t111 the committee's decision to Student out an allocation form in order to Body President Kathleen Murphy participate in Allocation Night. This within ten days. 
.. . Marine 

continuedfrom page I 
U.S. officials said about 300 Marines came ashore in the am· phibious landing yesterday, bringing to 1,200 the strength of the U.S. force guarding the airport and surrounding areas. 
The Marines waded, rifles held overhead, to the shore from a lan­ding ship. Then 14 amphibious as­sault vehicles with machine guns snaked their way through the sea about one mile from Sixth Fleet ves­sels to the shoreline. 
The tracked vehicles slammed in· to the shore, dubbed "Black Beach" by the leathernecks, climbed up to the road and headed to the airport. 
Jeeps and trucks also rolled offthe landing ship, and two big landing as­force is to help Gemayel and the Lebanese army restore government order in a country that has been embroiled in civil conflict and partly controlled by the PLO, Syria and Is­rael in the past seven years. 
The Marines were evacuated by helicopter to the amphibious ship Guam, where one died in surgery, the statement said. It added that one of the survivors was seriously injured in the groin, another was slightly injured in the arm and shoul­der, and another in the leg. 
Pentagon ofhciab 111 v. a!>lllllgton said the Marines hit were part of a team clearing mines at the airp6rt. He said all were enlisted men. 
tickets to transfers. Bodoh cites that in the past most tranfers went the entire season without tickets, but current policy allows transfers co obtain tfckets with relative ease. 
Another flaw in the transfer sys­tem results in what Bodoh calls "the anxiety ofwaiting. Most students do not learn of their acceptance as transfers until very late in June," said Bodoh. "This obviously creates problems with other colleges that the applicant might be considering as well." 
Bodoh agrees that "the University is making a diligent attempt to let the transfer know thier decision as soon as possible," and believes that the slow transfer of transcripts be­tween schools contributes to this delay. 
These drawbacks are slowly being alleviated, but the academic struggle of transfers still remains. 
Admission to the University as a transfer is a very selective process. Students must apply for transfer to the particular college which con­tains their major. The final decision on the applicant is then made by the dean of that college. 
Requirements for acceptance in­clude 2"" to .30 transferable credits from an accredited college or junior college. and a minimum "B" academic average. The number of students then accepted depends entirely on the number of spaces available in that college. 
In the fall semester of this year 286 students were chosen from a field of692 applicants. According to admissions office figures. the average GPA of this year's class was .3.-t. 
Admissions counselor Liz Weber readily admits that "although these students come here with relativley high academic averages, in general. they do have a little struggle in this area at first. However, these problems are very comparable to those ofa freshman, who must learn to adapt to a new academic system." 
Concurring with this opinion, Cathy Hogan, a sophomore transfer stated, "At Notre Dame there is a huge difference in the intellectual level as compared to my first school. As a result of this," she con­tinued,"the competition here is much greater. 
"All things considered, I don't really feel like I'm new here," stated Hogan, who also said that even after being here for only a short period of time, she feels "just like any other sophomore." 
In the same way that Notre Dame has much to offer the transfer. a transfer has something to offer to the university as well. "Very often trans­fers can give the university some unique viewpoints," said Bodoh. "After all, they have the advantage of being able to evaluate this Univer­sity in light of their experiences at another college." 

sault recovery craft, also amphibious vehicles, climbed from the sea and headed to the airport, where the 
Lee's 

Marines are deployed in a five­
8-BQ&Ribs

square-mile area. 
The Marines are serving in Beirut with I, 552 French troops and I, I 70 Italians whose presence was re­
Special Friday and Saturday quested by Gemayel in the wake of the Sept. 1-i assassination of his 
1Qpm -lam 

brother, Presidem·elect Bashir Gemayel, and the massacre of hundreds of Palestinians in two 
Get one 

refugee camps Sept. 16-18. 
Civil defense workers said two more bodies, those of a disem­boweled woman and her 
J2 pitcher with 

slaughtered unborn child. were recovered from a shallow grave yes­terday. The International Red Cross stopped counting at 320 bodies. Since then. civil defense workers 
every dinner purchased. 

have found six, and hospitals have reported receiving 12 dead, for a to­tal of 3 38. Lebanese officials put the death toll at 59..... 
The mission ·of the multinational 
1123 So. Bend Ave. No phone otdets 
Friday, October 1, 1982 -·page 3 


Annie Bodoh, director of transfer student operation, explains the difficulties transferstudents /J(ll'e u•hen coming to .'1/otreDame. Bodobfeels adjustments are becoming easierfor transferstudents. See .Uike Lepre's story· at left. (Photo h}' Scott Bou•er) 
The Best in 
Aged Steaks 
120 N. Main Street Downtown, Mishawaka 
255-7737 
for reservations Lunch 11:00 A.M. to 2:00P.M. Dinner 5:00P.M. Closed Sundays & Holidays 




MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM SUNDAY, OCTOBER 17 BPM TICKETS ON SALE NOW ALL SEATS RESERVED: $9.50 
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT RIVER CITY RECORDS, SUSPENDED CHORD; BUTTERFLY RECORDS, WARSAW; WORLD OF SOUND & LIGHT, PLYMOUTH; GOOD SOUNDS, KNOX; JR'S MUSIC, LAPORTE; CHECK'RD FLAG, MtCHIGAN CITY: RECORDLAND, BENTON HARBOR 


j 
~ 
--_j 

-----------~-­
The Observer Friday, October 1, 1982 -page 4 
----· -· 
Campus View Apartments . 
Roelller issues alcohol plea 

By TIM VERCELLOTTI 
News Editor 
Campus View Apartments student-residents have been asked to be "more prudent and temperate in the usc of alcohol" on their premises, in a letter sent by Dean of Students James Roemer earlier this week. 
The letter, sent out on Monday, 
said, "Several serious incidents have 
arisen from the abuse of alcohol at 
the Campus View Apartments. Keg­
gers and large parties ...drinking 
and large chugging contests ...have 
attracted the attention and conse­
quently the attendance of many 
campus residents, most of them un­
derage. 
"We appeal to your sense ofChris­tian dignity and decency to be more prudent and temperate in the usc of alcohol on your premises." 
"There have been a number of 
serious alcohol abuse cases coming 
out of Campus View," Roemer said 
yesterday. 
Roemer said he sent I00 copies of 
the letter toJohn Wilson, manager of 
the apartments, who distributed 
them among the over 300 students 
living at the complex. 
In mid-September two on-campus 
residents were apprehended by 
South Bend police after one alleged­
ly broke a window at a service sta­
tion near Campus View. The two 
students, charged with criminal mis­
chiefand public intoxication, repor­
tedly were coming from a party at 
Campus View at the time ofthe inci­dent. 


"You can have your lite altered drastically as a result of; this be­havior," Roemer said in reference to alcohol abuse. 
In the letter, Romer suggested that students observe the following guidelines: 
•Limit the size of parties to a reasonable number; 
•Serve 
plenty of food, such as chips, pretzels, dips and vegetables; 

•Have 
soft drinks available for those who prefer such; 

•Conclude 
parties at reasonable hours so that people do not drink to excess; and 

• 
Avoid the large kegger party, which can easily result in someone drinking excessively. 



Shultz asks support tor Reagan Mideast plan 
UNITED NATIONS (AP} Secn:tary of State George P. Shultz called on Israel and Arab nations yes­terday to accept President Reagan's proposal to join in peace negotia­tions and end the Middle East con­tlict that is "a searing wound on our consciousness." 
He also told the General Assembly the Palestinian people have an "undeniable" claim to a homeland, "a place with which they can truly identify." 
Shultz did not directly criticize Is­rael, which rejected the Reagan in­itiative. But he said there can be no peace for Israel until the "legitimate rights" of the Palestinians arc met. 
"Of the nations in the world 
which need and deserve peace, Is­
rael surely holds a pre-eminenr 
place," Shultz said. "Of the peoples 
ofthe world who need and deserve a 
place with which they can truly 
identify, the Palestinian claim is un­
deniable." 
The secretary said there is "no 
contradiction bt:tween permanent 
peace for Israel and the legitimate 
rights of the Palestinian people. 
Neither can be achieved without the 
other." 
Shultz devoted a major part of his 
first speech to the General Assembly 
to the Middle East crisis. He spoke 
after Israel's foreign minister, 
Yitzhak Shamir, voiced new 
criticism of the Reagan plan. 
Shultz interrupted his prepared remarks to announce to the world body that he had just learned a U.S. Marine had been killed, and several others injured, in Beirut earlier in the day. 
He said U.S. troops "are there to speed the moment when all foreign forces depart from Lebanon." He called for an early agreement on a timetable for a withdrawal offoreign troops and the restoration of 
Lebanon's independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity. Shultz planned to meet later in the 
day with the foreign ministers of 
Egypt, Jordan and Syria to push 
Reagan's peace initiative. 
In his address, Shultz criticized 
Soviet behavior in Afghanistan and 
Poland but said the Soviets have 
joined the United States "in a 
serious, businesslike effort at arms 
conrrol" in talks in Geneva, Switzer­
land. 
He said it is "a global imperative to 
halt, and reverse, the global arms 
buildup," and he asserted that the 
united States is doing its part. 
"I can report that we are fulfilling 
our responsibility to seck to limit 
and reduce conventional and 
nuclear arms to the lowest possible 
levels," he said. 

awesome.' 
"FAST TIMES 
AT RIDGEMONT HIGH" Shows 1:30-3:30­5:30-7:30-9:30 
John 
Cassavettes 
Susan Sarandon 
"TEMPEST" 
Shows 1:45-4·15 7:00-9:30 
"YES, GIORGIO" Starring Luciano Pavarotti 
2:00­4:30-7:00-9:30 
and up! 

is your Screw your Roommate HP~dquarters Stay on campus and save $$$by letting us take care of 
your flower needs Delivery to KD-sm llD-8110 available Daily Specials!II 
Dial M-U-M-8 (6867) to place an order 
Located off the llazz in the basement of LaFortune 
Hours: 12:30-5:30 


·The Observer 
Friday, October 1, 1982-page 5 

Tougherlaws proposed 
Drunk driving. bill nears passage 

WASHINGTON (AP) The Senate yesterday neared final passage of a hill designed to prompt states to toughen their laws against drunken driving, the leading cause of highway deaths. 
The legislation. passed Wednes­day by the House on a voice vote, offered s 12S million over the next three years to states that adopt strict laws against drunken drivers. 
Tht' St'n~tt· wa:-. t:xpected to adopt the House measure in order to get the hill to the White House for Presi­dent Reagan's signature hetore 
Congress recesses today. 
Earlier this year. the Senate p<L~sed similar drunken .driving legislation, but the measure did not incorporate all the details of the House version. 
Sen. Claiborne Pel!, D-R.I., the chief sponsor of the Senate bill, predicted the Senate would adopt the more comprehensive House measure in order to speed the legislation along to the president. 
Pell and the House sponsors, 
Reps. James J. Howard, D-N.J., and 
Michael D. Barnes, D-Md., argue the 
legislation is needed because 
drunken driving is responsible for 
nearly half the SO,OOO highway 
deaths each year, as well as 12S,OOO 
permanent injuries. 
Both the president and the inde­
pendent National Transportation 
Safety Board have expressed sup­
port for the fight against drunken 
drivers. 
"Americans are outraged that 
such slaughter can take place on our 
highways," Reagan said last spring 
when he created a commission to 
study the issue. "The mood ofthe na­
tion is ripe to make headway to sol­
ving the problem." 
Under the legislation, ttie states 
would be eligible for highway safety 
grants if they satisfy four basic 
criteria. 
The states must approve an 
automatic 90-day license suspen­
sion for a tlrst offense and a one-year 
license suspension for any repeat of­
tense; a mandatory -!8-hour jail sen­
' ' Tylenol
' 

continuedfrom pa?,e I 
However. Stanley Janus' wife, Theresa, 19, was reported in ex­tremely critical and unstable condi­tion. She also suffered cardio-pulmonary collapse and was unconscious, said hospital spokes­woman Margaret McDonald. 
McDonald said tests determined that she had cyanide in her body. Adam's wife, Teresa, 28, his two young children and the brothers' 
tence or 10 days of community Utah and Washington -also are 
service for a second offense within a nearing eligibility, the aide said. 
five-year period; the establishment The bill also authorizes S2 million of 0.10 percent blood alcohol con­to put the National Driver Registry tent ( BAC) level as "per se" in computers so states can evidence of intoxication; and in­determine whether an applicant's creased enforcement of the state's license has been revoked elsewhere. drunken driving laws. This would prevent anyone who lost 
A house aide said only Iowa and a license on drunk driving charges in West Virginia now are eligible for one state from obtaining a license in the grants since they meet the another state. criteria, but Delaware is very close 
to that point.  The legislation does not require  
Eight others  - Alaska, Arizona,  the states to cooperate, but provides·  
Florda,  Jllinni~  \1 ~int•  \Hnnt"'<nt:J  the financial grants to those that do.  

Bikers raise money tOr cancer research 
By BOBJOHNSON 
News Staff 
Bike riders will be pumping their pedals for cancer research at the Notre Dame Stadium on Saturday, Oct. 2. The "Wheels For Life" bike-a-. thon is being sponsored by. the Alpha Phi Omega chapter of Notre Dame. 
Riders will start bicycling around the outside of the stadium at 9:00 Saturday morning and continue for three hours. John Clements, presi­dent ofthe fraternity, said that Satur­day "promises to be a nice day, so there should be a nice turnout." He expects about 2S riders. The par­ticipants will try to complete as many laps as possible since pledges are made per lap. 
Money raised by the fraternity is donated to St. Jude Children's Research Hospital in Memphis, Tenn., for cancer research. 
This will be the second year that Alpha Phi Omega has sponsored the bike-a-thon. Because of scheduling conflicts with other activities, the event was not held last year. 
The fraternity spnosors several 
parents were among those admitted to the hospital for observation. McDonald said. 
Schaffer said the Tylenol capsules found to contain cyanide "were moist on the inside and smelled like almonds ... some people would say like an old locker room." 
He added that the material inside the capsule was "wet and gray, while normally, Tylenol is granular. dry and white." 


oble•. · 

oro~ ~/···..·-··~-­
277·5300 ... ~­
.....................~.llllii.~-~•• 
• DIZZA DINNER • 
• CFOR TWO • 
I with salad sar II $699 SAVEOVER ~ • u~ •
• Save even more on Dinnerfor Four. • • $11.99 • 
• • Medium Deep· Dish Sicilian, 12" • • Hand-Tossed Round or 10" Monster • • pizza (your choice or toppings) • • • 2 "Create-Your· Own Salad Bars • 
Drinks not Included. Inside Dining Only.
• 
One coupon per customer per visit Cannot • • be used with any other coupon or discount • • oller. Oller good through October 7 1982. • 
• Good at Cleveland Rd. Stnre • Across !rom University Park MaD • 
• 
Z77 5300 
• 
$ 2°0°ff I • 
I 
•
Any Large Deep· Dish Sicilian. • 14" Monster or 16" or 20" • Hand-Tossed Round pizza. • 
• 2 pizzas may be purchased with • each coupon. cannot be used with any • other coupon or discount oller. One coupon per customer per visit • Oller good through October 7 1982. • • 
Good at Cleveland Rd. Store • Across !rom University Park MaD • 
Z77. 5300 

IllNoble(~,ma~.:.f.Noble 'JlomaJts•l 
other events on campus throughout the year, such as Ugly Man On Campus (lJMOC) and the blood drive. Alpha Phi Omega is a servic,e fraternity with open membership. 
... Clock 
continuedfrom page I 
been approved. Only one of 1:) regular hills has cleared Congress, and it is still awaiting Reagan's signature. 
For domestic programs, the catch­all measure generally is within the budget that Congress set for itself several months ago, meaning many programs will he frozen at roughly the 1982 levels. 
The interim measure temporarily prohibits purchase of the first five \1X missiles, which the administra­tion wants to buy, and blocks any spending on the second of two new nuclear aircraft carriers Reagan wants to build. Construction of the B-1 bomber may proceed, however. 
The interim measure also calls for substantially less in foreign aid than either Reagan or the Republican­controlled Senate voted for, about S<J. ~ billion. The Senate recom­mended S 1 I. I billion, while Reagan asked ti.Jr s 11.6 billion. 
House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., D-Mass., did not mention either social function when he told repor­ters that negotiators for the two houses estimated that no com­promise bill would be ready for tloor action until shortly after the mid­night deadline. 

Susan Batten, 30, celebrated her birthday Wednesday by reach­ing the top ofher training ladder at London Fire Brigade Training Center to become Britain's first full-time professional firefighter. (AP Photo) 
ND TAILGATER 

Tomotrow nt9:30 am SW of Spartan Stadium next to munn Ice Ateno 
Admission J2.00 fot refreshments & donuts Sponsored by Sr. Class & SU Social Commission 

Glasses Broken? 
SAME DAY SERVICE 
*Glass or Plastic Lenses *Single Vision or Multifocal *:()wer 600 frames 

University Center, 6502 Grape Road, Mishawaka, Indiana Phone 219-2'n-2400-Open Mon.-Fri. 9-; Sat 9-5 
The Public Cafeteria 
in the South Dining Holl
~" 
~~ 
~~ ~~ 

Friday Dinner Specialties 
aspaRaqus CRaB Chowb€R .85 
~{ wOt 

~R€nCh ~RI€b ~ll€t 0~ -sol€­
~~ ~--... 1 
~ ~-...... -,--..

taRtaR Sauc€ $1.65 
Bak€b Cob With L€mon Butt€R $1.70 Roast top Rounb o~ B€€(:, au)us $1.95 B€€j: St€W With BISCUit $1.65 
The Observer Friday, October 1, 1982 -page 6 

A memorial Mass was celebrated in Sacred M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president, was the celebrant Heart Church yesterday for Rev. james L. Shilts, and Rev. David Burrell, C.S.C., professor oftheol· 
C.S.C., assistant professor ofphysics and rector of ogy andphilosophy, delivered the homily. (Photo Carroll Hall, who died August 16. Rev. Theodore by Scott Bower) 
Events planned 
Hotlnan organizes freshman council 
By PAT BROWNE meeting. prior to polka dancing. Instruction and SCOTT WILLIAMS The Parents' Breakfast will be held in the polka will be provided. News Staff at the Stepen Center, the morning of 
October 9th "for all freshman, Each hall president chose one 
The Freshman Advisory Council parents and families. The FAC will freshman from his/her dorm to (FAC) for 1982-1983 has organized serve on various committies in­represent the freshmen of the hall. under the auspices of Dr. Emil T. volved in the organization, service. The freshmen were chosen on the Hofman, dean of the Freshman Year set·up and clean-up ofthe breakfast. basis of leadership and service ofStudies. A freshman food concession stand 
potential to their class. Each hall is The first meeting of the FAC was is planned for the Arizona game. This represented in the council and can held Wednesday night at the Univer­stand will raise money for the fresh­he contacted through the hall presi­sity Club. Topics discussed included man class treasury. dents. 
arrangments for the Parents' Break­At the next Freshman's Other fast, a food ·concession stand at the Choice dance, to be held November The next meeting of the FAC will Arizona game, the next Freshman's 5th, six of the freshman dormitories he held at Keenan Hall on Wednes­
Other Choice, and plans for the next will prepare acts to be performed day at 9:~0 p.m. 
The Thomas More Society of Notre Dame presents its first 

Wqnmas fwtnre <trnnference 

12:30 pm -11 :00 pm Saturday, Oct. 2, 1982 
Galvin Life Science Auditorium 

12:30 Registration 
1:00 St. Augustine and St. Thomas More: 
2:15  Two Catholic Rhetoricians Joseph Berrigan, Professor of History, University of Georgia Thomas More~ English Leader and European Statesman John Gueguen, Professor of Political Science, Illinois State University  
4:00  Panel Forum on Liberal Education  

Dr. Charles Wegener, University of Chicago Dr. James Carberry, School of Engineering -Author of Liberal Education and the Modern University -Professor of Chemical Engineering Dr. Ralph Mcinerny, Director of Maritain Center Dr. John Houck, School of Business -Professor of Philosophy, Director of Medieval institute -Professor of Business Organization & Management 
6:30 Dinner, Faculty Dining Room, South Dining Hall 
7:30 The Wit and Wisdom of Thomas More 
Ralph Mcinerny, Director of the Maritain Center, University of Notre Dame 
Memorial Library 
8:00& 

10:15 Film: A Man for All Seasons Library Auditorium 
' 
, 9:00 Slide Presentation: . More's Professional and Family Life Library Lounge 
Sponsored by the Thomas More Society of Notre Dame with the Colleges · of Arts and Letters, Business. Engineering, and Science. the Law School. the Medieval Institute, and the Departments of Government, History, 
English and the Program of Liberal Studies. 
Econom.ic indicators show-som.e decline 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Flyi11g in "glitch" or "blip" in the overall pat­the face of President Reagan·~ tern of recO\-cry. predictions of recovery, the govern· And Baldrige told rcportns that ment's main economic forecasting "at thb point we are in the interim gauge has nosed down f(>r the first period between a recession and a time since March and a record num­recovery. The signs of recovery will ber of Americans have lined up tiJr he more clear .as the fourth quarter unemployment benefits, oll:lals said unfolds." He also preuictcd Scptem-­yesterday. ber's leading indicators index would 
Commerce Secretary \1alcolm he up, reversing the August decline. Baldrige insisted the economy was Jerry Jasinowski, senior vice presi­still heading for an upturn. Some dent and chief economist for the as­private analysts agreed, though sociation of manufacturers, said cautioning the improvement would "The renewed decline in leading in­he relatively weak, hut the chief dicators, particularly the decline in economist fix the Naional Associa­building permits, suggests that we tion of Manufacturers said the new will not sec meaningful economic figures mean "we will not see recovery until 1983. Although we meaningful recovery until 1983." can expect some pickup in retail 
House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill, sales later this year, this will be large­D-Mass., said "the worst may be ly offset hy further declines in con­ahead" and raised the possibility of struction and heavy industry an economic depression. activity." 
In the specific rtports, the Com­But Albert Cox, chairman of Mer­merce Department said its Index of rill Lynch Economics, said the index Leading Indicators, designed to "is still signaling recovery" will show future national economic arrive before long. trends, dropped 0.9 percent in August after rising for four straight months, and the Labor Department said initial claims for state jobless 
Logan Center 

benefits soared to 703,000 in the 
week ended Sept. 18, the highest 
recorded since he department 
farm trip 

began its current form of tabulation in 1967. Another Commerce measure of 
tomorrow 

current economic conditions con­
tinued to decline in August, hitting The annual Logan Center farm 
its low point of the recession and trip, sponsored hy the Notre Dame­
thereby signaling strongly that the Saint Mary's Council for the 
downturn was not over. Retarded, will.take place tomorrow. 
Also, Commerce and the Depart­Buses will leave Logan for the 
ment of Housing and Urban farm at I0:00a.m. and return by ~:00 
Development reported that sales of p.m. A cook-out lunch will be 
new single-family houses rose a provided as will "lots of fun,'' 
slight 2 percent in August but promises Eileen Murphy, co-leader 
remained 1.4 percent below the 
ofthe Council. All old volunteers are level for the same month one year encouraged to attend, and new 
earlier. volunteers are always welcome. For 
Reagan had said in advance that further information contact either 
the expected decline in the leading Eileen Murphy ( 2986) or Mary 
indcators was no more than a Decker (8067) 
lfNtWl~Ii·······li········· 
:l___________________... ftii:'UiehiiM.a'!
$100
7 Gomeroom Tokens lor 

40 Gameroom Tokens lor $soo 
ot 1~ Holes ol PUTT PUTT $1°0 . 
. With this coupon or Student m expires 1982: :·······.PUTT-PUTT GOLF & GAMES .....··..; 
OPEN YEAR ROUND! 3615 N. Main., Mishawaka (one block south of Edison Rd.) Open till mldnight 259-4171 

Prices quoted on request 
Dixie Giannetto, owner of the former Giannetto's 
Restaraunt, wishes to announce that her famous STUFFED PIZZA, voted last year as Michiana's finest is now being served at Mr. Bentons. 
Hours 4:00-10:00 pm Tues-sat Closed Sun & Mon 907 31st. St. South Bend Phone: 289-9008 




The Observer Friday, October 1, 1982-page 7 
U.S. bound 
Vietnamese children airlifted 
HO CHI MINH CITY, Vietnam (AP)-Gary Tanous, who fought for more than two years to get his daughter out· of Vietnam, tearfully took her in his arms yesterdav and joined an airlift of 1 I Vietnamese­American children bound for the United States. 
"I have never been happier in my lite," said Tanous, .f2, tears stream­ing down his cheeks. The Van­couver, Wash., resident had not seen I 'i-year-old Jean \1arie, his only child, for 1-t years. 
Tanous was the only father present for the Amera.~ian children's airlift. which is sending I 1 youngsters aged seven to 1 'i to relatives or sponsors in America. Nine Vietnamese relatives are also on the airlift, which is stopped over in Bangkok, Thailand. before continuing to the United States. 
Vietnam said it is ready to grant "immediate visas" to all Amerasian children and relatives who want to go to the United States, and said it is the responsibility of the United States to take them. 
Yesterday's emigres were the lar­
gest group of offspring of Gls and 
civilians to leave for the Cnited 
States since Ho Chi Minh City -for­
merly Saigon -fell to the com­
munists in I975. They were 
documented as U.S. citizens. Viet­
nam says 26 more such children and 
21 relatives will be flown out Oct. 7 
in the program coordinated with 
eight U.S. volunteer agencies. 
Most Amerasians are not eligible 
to emigrate automatically to the 
Cronkite to tnoderate paneldiscussion 
Walter Cronkite from CBS will moderate a panel discussion tomor­row in the Snite Museum on the in­fluence of science in American universities, industry, and govern­ment. 
The panelists are Rep. Don Fuqua, chairman of the U.S. House commit­tee on science and technology;John Hanely, chairman ofthe hoard ofthe :\tonsanto Company; Dr. Stuart Rich, dean of physical sciences at the Uni­versity of Chicago: and Dr. John Slaugher,. director of the National Science Foundation. 
The discussion will he from I 0 
a.m. to noon in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum, and is open to the public. 
The discussion is in connection with the dedication ceremonies for the Stepan Chemistry HaiL The dedication itself will he at 3 p.m. in the Memorial Library Auditorium. 
Cronkite and the other panelists will receive honorary degrees. 
The keynote address of the dedication will be given by Dr. D. Al­len Bromley, chairman of the board of the American Association for the Advancement ofScience. 
Bromley will also receive an honorary degree. 


CONTRIBUTING $2.00 or MORE DIVIDED BY TOTAL NO. OF STUDENTS 
D 
0 
0 
0 
United States, although hundreds have left as refugee "boat people" or through a complicated U.N.­sponsored program. The United States has said 88 children, including the I I who left yesterday on an Air France tlight, are documented U.S. citizens and eligible to emigrate. 
Tanous, a, civilian contractor during the Vietnam War, hugged Jean \1arie at Ton Son Nhut airport 
and  told  her  "Soon  you  go  to  
America  .Are you re ady?  Do not  
he afraid."  

Nursing department ca'ps 44tomorrow 
By MICHOLE MADDEN 
News Staff 
The Saint Mary's Nursing Depart­ment will have its annual capping ceremonies tomorrow at 7:30 p.m. in the Church ofLoreno. 
This year there are 44 par­ticipants. The women are all juniors who have been accepted into the nursing program. 
The ceremony is a traditional event The capping represents not only a hallmark of achievement for the women, but especially a pledge of service to mankind, notes Dr. Mary Martucci, chairman of the nursing department. In taking the Nightingale Pledge, the Saint Mary's 

"I just feel sick at all the important years of her life I missed," he said, adding he hoped other fathers will follow his example and take in their Amerasian offspring. Tanous divorced his Vietnamese wife, who lives in the United States. 
The children were neatly dressed and some had photographs of their parents pinned to their frocks. They seemed happy, and many chartered excitedly, although there were some tears when they prepared to board the plane. 
women indicate a willingness to devote themselves to nursing and adopt it as a lifestyle. 
The nursing program at Saint Mary's is relatively new. The first class of nurses to graduate was in I977, and each class consists of usually between 44 to 51 students. 
After acceptance into the ranks, the women will work closely with individual patients in community hospitals throughout the remaining two years. After graduation, they must take state board exams in the state in which they wish to practice. About one halfofthe nurses go on to do graduate and administative work. 
Martucci is very enthusiastic about the capping because it represents not only a bigcareers .tep, but a decision to dedicate them­selves to that decision. 

Ricardo Romero is bugged by his son, Robin, prior to his surren­der to Federal authorities in Denver on Wednesday. The FBI iden­tified Romero as the leader ofthe radical FALN group. ( AP Photo) 
O'd Fashioned Home Cooking At Its Best! 
*If You Are Looking For Something Unique and Different *Homemade Pies, Breads, Salads, & Rolls 
*40 Foot Salad Bar *Nightly "All You Care To Eat Specials" Choose from Roast Beef, 
Turkey, Chicken, BBQ Ribs, Frog Legs & Lake Perch, Swiss Steak, *Open Menu Always Available Ham *Elegance, Good Prices -850 Seats 

'•-"~" *Sou_venirs, Gifts & Homemade Goodies 
i!~.~ ~~;~Sat.J!lorning-brunch-75 items under $5°0-8 am. 2 pm · /'~..··We will accept your reservations to ~uarantee 

••••1982 

I o ~ogo3D4DSOS070BCJS01ooa,o 
~-~--------~----~­
------~---------..-------------------------------------------........, 
Editorials 
Friday, October 1, 1982 -page 8 

Nuclear weapons research at Notre Dame 
Questioning the silence ... 
In recent weeks rumors have surfaced tember 30, 1982 edition of the National 
regarding a controversial research project un­Catholic Reporter: 
dertaken by Associate Professor A Murty "When asked if the information could also 
Kanury from the College of Engineering. be used to heighten the destructiveness of 
Several questions have arisen concerning the nuclear weapons, or learn how better to place 
individual responsibilities ~f the persons in­them within a city for maximum damage, volved as well as the collective respon-Kanury said, 'When you learn how to duck, 
you learn how to hit. 
'Will they (the Defense Department) use

Patrick Mulligan 
the information my research provides? Yes,' Kanury said, 'but bow they will use it -I don't

Divided Line know."' 
Professor Robert Gordon, Vice-President sibilities we share as members of this for Advanced Study, deems Kanury " ... an communii:y. There are no easy answers to expert in fluid dynamics." Gordon's office has these questions. An explication of the facts, final say in accepting or rejecting proposals by however, may render perspicuous an issue faculty to do research at the University. thus far beclouded by both bureaucratic According to Gordon, approval of research doubletalk and anti-nuke sensationalism. An projects is contingent upon " ... appropriate­objective account ofKanury's research will al­ness intellectually and in terms of values the low the reader to consider -and hopefully University stands for." discuss with others -the possible implica­Is Kanury's project consistent with this tions ofthe project. definition? 
In a document released August 10, 1982 the Again the press release from Information 
Department ofInformation Services describes Services: 
Kanury's work in the following way: "' ... in the event of a nuclear explosion,' 
"A University of Notre Dame engineer is Kanury assessed,.'We know things would be 
conducting feasibility studies to find out ifthe bad -intuitively, qualitatively and psycholo­
test blast of a scale model city built in a wes­gically. But how bad is bad? There is no in­
tern desert is the most effective means of formation, so we need a quantitative measure. 
studying how a nuclear explosion would af­We need to know what the proper concerns 
fect a modern city." are."' 
The project, underwritten by a 549,730 grant from the Department of Defense entails At Notre Dame we are given the impression extensive research into the "unknown ef­that "the proper concern" /should be the fects" which would follow a nuclear ex­prevention of nuclear war. Fr. Hesburgh un­change. derscores this belief: he has just returned from 
The document continues: a visit to Rome, where he outlined his 
"We know now that the flow around an proposed scientific symposium on nuclear isolated, single body is predictable. But what if disarmament at the Vatican. Yet, while Hes­we have a structure, such as a cylinder, in the burgh organizes conferences to oppose wind? And what if a child is standing next to, nuclear proliferation, research continues at or in back of it? Will the wind effect be dif­the University which could possibly lead ferent?" toward more accurate and efficient nuclear 
Ostensibly, the research is intent on weapons. "augmenting quantitative knowledge" of ur­Professor Roger Schmitz, Dean of the Col­ban conditions in the aftermath of a nuclear lege of Engineering, claims that Kanury's explosion. Yet the possibility exists that the project deals with "nothing classified ... (it) Department of Defense could use the could be published in any technical journal." "reciprocal information" implicit in Kanury's Yet, while Schmitz claims the research is research. Could this study be used to enhance nothing out of the ordinary, a veil of secrecy the effectiveness of offensive nuclear war­inconsistent with the University's ideals has heads? Consider this excerpt from the Sep-been wrapped around Kanury's project. 
... debating the purpose 
In accordance with rising anti-nuclear "What was a plot to scare the Soviets has 
weapons sentiment in this country, one ended up terrifying us," Ferguson contends. campus coalition is actively calling to ques­He sees the public view of the nuclear war tion the research about to be conducted by situation as parallel to the stages of dying ex­
Dr. A. Murty Kanury concerning effects of a plained in Elizabeth Kubler-Ross' book On nuclear test blast on a scale model ofa modern Death and Dying. 
city. "The thought of a war (like death) for the past ten years or so has been so frightening, we have refused to think about it," Ferguson 
Gregory Swiercz 
said. "The Reagan administration has brought it into consciousness."
After Class 
But does a coalition have the right to ques­The Coalition For Peace, a group comprised tion the scientific research ofa professor whoof campus professors, administrators and in­has chosen to tackle a controversial issue?

terested persons, has discussed the possible The CFP must grasp the whole spectrum ofconflict of interest between the strong Cath­issues raised by the prospect ofnuclear war. Itolic traditions of the University and the emo­is unclear how the information gained bytional incongruity of testing nuclear blast Kanury's research will be used by the Defenseeffects here. 
Department. Any speculation that the findings 

The CFP is looking into Kanury's research, will be used as evidence for ways to increase questioning what Fr. James Ferguson, coor­the immense power of nuclear warheads is dinator of the coalition, terms the "moral only speculation. To persecute a scientist theology" of the plans. At the Sept. 8 CFP trying to do his work hardly embodies the meeting, the possibility ofthe coalition taking Christian attitude the Notre Dame com­some type of action in venting their disap­munity constantly tries to achieve. proval ofthe research came up for discussion. Kanury's research will have an effect on the At next Wednesday's meeting, the coalition University's reputation -research at the will decide whether it would be appropriate Lobund Laboratory and Fr. Julius Nieuwland's for the group to send a letter to Fr. Theodore discovery of synthetic rubber serve as ex­
Hesburgh questioning the Department of amples of work enhancing the University's Defense's funding of the nuclear explosion reputation. While Kanury ultimately is research, and, if so, what the letter will say. responsible for the information he provides to the Defense Department, he also must be able
Since its inception, the CFP has con­to justify the repercussions ofhis work to him­centrated on making the campus aware of the selfand the University community.
nuclear weapons question. Ground Zero Many groups wrestling with the nuclearWeek last semester and the mass demonstra­arms question demand a simple answer: 'Take tions across the country this summer have away the bombs, and the world will be safe ' orfueled the anti-nuke movement in such a way 'limit the number of arms and each side ~illthat the issue is gaining serious support from keep the other in check.' There is no simpleseveral corners. 
answer -only more questions. 

Ferguson himself is not new to the nuclear Feeling emotionally driven to oppose movement. While working on his master's de­Kanury's research will not be sufficient reason gree in Washington, D.C., last year, he wit­to actively denounce his work. What the nessed growing public sentiment in public must accept is the complexity of the conversational circles. Politicians soon problem -the social, medical, psychological followed suit, speaking of the logistics in and environmental implications of nuclear "winning a nuclear exchange," the evacuation war. While public outcries play an important plans, and the campaign-safe statements role in formulating a world policy in this which reinforced the nuclear "shroud of un­regard, emotional appeals need to be rein­certainty." forced with rational arguments. 
The lunacy of It All 
Have you ever had the feeling ofdeja vu? With the professional football players on strike, it all seems like a throwback to the baseball strike of 1981. I guess the great tragedy of history is that it repeats itself. One has to wonder why the complete lunacy ofthe baseball strike could not have prevented the football players from also taking to the picket lines. 
Randy Fahs 
Friday Analysis 
Personally, I find it absurd that any profes­sional athlete, who is playing a child's game for a large sum of money, could put himself into the category ofa laborer. They have even set up their own union to represent them­selves in disputes with management. Doesn't the Player's Union seem to be like any other labor union in the United States? 
The comparison becomes absurd if you really take a close look at an average worker and a professional athlete. The American worker is forced to play for keeps because his meager salary must povide the essentials for himself and his family; there is usually little left over for a rainy day. The American worker is also faced with the prospects that his job might cease to exist due to production cur­rtailments, plant closings, or the increased use ofautomation which could make his skills ob­solete. 
Many workers are forced to take cuts in their pay to help keep faltering companies afloat. Economic conditions in the nation have really taken their toll on the average American worker. Though they may grumble about their jobs, those that have them are thankful because they know how many others are unemployed. 
Professional athletes are able to escape most of the economic and employment problems which are faced by the average worker. They are paid quite handsomely. Even the lowest paid athletes make far more 

==Ihe=Obsen!er== 
Tbe Ob.rerver is an independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's CoJiege. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news i~ report­ed as accurately anJ as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a maJority of the Editorial Board. Co.nmcntarics, opinions and letters are the v1ews of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the commun1ty, and the free expression of varying opimons on campus, through letters, ii eacour18ed. 
P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
than your typical factory worker. One might ask: What about the possibility ofbeing cut by a team or suffering a career-ending injury? I have two replies to this: an athlete who ex­pects his entire life's income to be made in professional sports is not merely a fool, but a freeloader; most athletes were given a free ride through college. If they didn't receive a degree, or iftheir degree is as useful as a piece of toilet paper, whose fault is it? 
Part of the blame must he shouldered by colleges that fail to make. their athletes meet certain academic standards, but there is no real reason why they failed to get an educa­tion. It may be hard to do, but there are plenty of people who can be both a student and an athlete. Maybe I seem cold, but I cannot bring myself to feel sorry for someone who throws away a chance for a college education because offootball. 
An even more assinine situation than a professional athlete on strike is a professional athlete who holds out for more money. For example, let's take Joe Cribbs who failed to 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Cbief..............................Michael Monk Managing Editor............_... Ryan Ver Berkmoes Executive News Editor.........................Kelli Flint SMCExecutive Editor............Margaret Fosmoe Sports Editor...................................Chris Needles Editorials Editor ·-·············--·····--·--··Paul McGinn Features Editor ···-··----··-----·:;..._ ...........Taci Brown 
Photo ~~::ur --··-·········-·--··-············-·Rachel Blount report to the Buffalo Bills because his 5135,000 salary was not enough. He thinks he deserves S400,000 a year and he will not play until he gets it. How can a mere enter­tainer say that S135,000 a year is not enough in a blue collar town where 12 percent of the work force is unemployed? It is no small won­der that most · people are shocked and annoyed by such. a turn ofevents. 
Right now player and management representatives are discussing ways to divide up the large sum of money which was provided by that enormous TV contract. Each side feels that it deserves a certain share of the amount, but one has to wonder if they ever thought ofgiving it back to the fans in the form of lower ticket prices. I guess everybody for­got about all of those people who fight off snow or rain, put up with warm beer and cold hot dogs, and who willingly pay to sit through losing seasons. These are the people who are now deprived of their sporting events. I won­der ifanyone will ever take into account what they think and want. 
Department Managers 
BusinessManager ............._........_ ......Tony Aiello Controller .............................................Eric Schulz Advertising Manager............._. ..._. ...Chris Owen Production Manager...... ·--·-·······Maura Murphy Circulation Manager·················-········Ray Inglin Sy~tems Manager··········--··-----·--···--Bruce Oakley 
Founded November 3, 1966 


,[' [·' r I ' 




---~~-~----------------------­


The Irish Extra 
The Observer Sports Sl1pplement 
Friday, October 1, 1982 
Faust knows Michigan State is better than the record shows 
By CHRIS NEEDLES 
Sports Editor 
EAST LANSING, Mich. -His team is 2-0, and is on a roll. The opponent is 0-3. after suffering three narrow defeats. But as undefeated Notre Dame prepares to take on winless Michigan State at Spartan Stadium here tomorrow, Irish Coach Gerry Faust is worried. "They scare me," Faust says. "This is going to be one ofthe toughest games al-l year for us. "Their record is not indicative of how good they are. They're well­coached and they could easily be 3-0 with a· couple of breaks." 
No, Gerry Faust has not gone crazy. The Spartans are indeed the best 0-3 football team in the nation. Their main problem, though, has been not of­fensive or defensive maladies. 
You see, MSU plays a schedule that only the Marquis de Sade could love_ So far, the Spartans have lost to nationally-ranked Illinois ( 2:3-16), Ohio State ( :3 I -I0) and Miami, Fla.,( 2 5-22 ). And after the Irish come to town this week, Michigan State must travel to Ann Arbor to face Michigan. 
By then, Coach Muddy Waters will no doubt have lost all of his already­white hair. 
"Ifwe can live through the first five games ofour schedule,'' said Waters before the season, "we can be a tough team. But we will have to be very good very early to survive them." 
The Spartans have been good, but not quite good enough, in their first three games. Against lllinois, MSU was stalled inside the ten within l: I Hto go en route to a tying touchdown. The Spartans and Ohio State were tied I0-10 in the fourth quarter before a fumbled punt return opened the floodgates for three late Buckeye scores. And last week, Miami scored on a fourth down, one-yard plunge in the final minute to win, after the Spartan defens~pnhe Hurricanes out oflhe end zone <in three previous tlrst-and-goal situations. 
So, what can we expect of the 'ipartans tomorrow' Will they come out on tire to atone for the last three weeks. or will the effects of three heartbreak­ing ddt:ats drain them ofevery ounce ofspirit' 
It is this unknown that scares (;erry Faust. 
See TOUGH, page 11 
Struggling with himself 
John Leister tries to regain the winning ways he used to know 




By DAVE DYE 
.\j}()rfs l:"tlitor 
The Stale ~e' 

'john Leisteram he his own worst enemy." -teammate Tom Piette. 
EAST LANSING, Mich. -He could put 20 cents in a phone, dial up a number, hear a busy signal, then turn around in a disgusted way, putting all the blame on himself. He would say that he should have called two minutes earlier or maybe three minutes later. 
But it would be his fault. That is just John Leister's nature. He has a tendency to be Vince Lombardi to himself. Or, better yet, the Great Santini. 
When John Leister makes a mistake -any­thing even resembling one -he must answer to a most vile figure. 
Himself. 

"Yeah, I've seen that," says MSU offensive coordinator Steve Schottel, who worked closely with Leister last season as the quarter­back coach. "John gets on himself a Jot. Ifour offense fails, John Leister will never blame anybody but himself." 
His year of 1981 was by all tokens a disap­pointment. The one who MSU coach Muddy 
\X ater~ "wouldn't trade for any 4uarterhack in 
the country" ~uddenly found himM~u· traded 
for the one: who had hc:en playing backup to 
him. :\'otJohn Elway. Not Dan ,\1arino. Not Art 
Schlichter. But Bryan Clark. 
Lt:ister, a 6-2, 1H7-pound senior, was dealt a 
season of hardship. He bruised a thigh muscle 
in the opening game, and hobbled for weeks. 
Later in the year, he separated his shoulder. 
But what had to hurt most was that he was 
clearly the inferior of the Leister-Clark com­
bo. 
Even wit.h a talent level which had shocked 
people the year before -when often he was 
the best player on the field. 
"Very disappointing season," says Leister. "At times I thought I did really well and at times I thought I shouldn't even be playing high school. I tried to force the big play every time I got my hands on the ball. 
"I didn't really lose my confidence but there sure were times when I really won­
l 
dered. I'd search for answers. The answers were right there. I j_ust had to settle down." Leister's past is such that it is hard for him to 
I
settle down when every time he looks up at the scoreboard, his team is behind. Since third ~ 

•. 1 
grade, he has played football -almost always 
See LEISTER, page 11 
j 

IRISH EXTRA-MICHIGAN STATE Friday, October 1, 1982 -page 10 
,,.,,~You cango home again ·~ Rudzinski battles fora starting spot '.;'•~., and a chance to face the Spartans 
Joe Rudzinski 

continuedfrom page 9 
for a champion, almost always the hero. 
His father, James, is a retired Colonel from the U.S. Army which may explain even more so the strictnessJohn places on himself. 
"Last year I got frustrated, mad at myself," he says. "Ifthe team couldn't do it, I was going to. I didn't have a good time. I pressed myself, worried so much about everything. Heck with that." 
After a sophomore year of throwing for 1,559 yards and 10 touchdowns, and being named honorable mention All-Big Ten, what happened in 1981 caught most by surprise. 
He still threw for more than 1,000 yards and completed nearly halfofthe passes. However, it was far from convincing one to turn down a snap with Stanford, Pitt or Ohio State. Simply, a lot more was expected out of No. 18 from Great Falls, Mont., than was received. 
Now, he says he is wiser. A busy signal will not deem the end ofsunrises. An interception won't mean the end of mankind. Leister, who nearly transferred after Darryl Rogers left for Arizona State, is ready to hop up and not fall down this time around. 
"I've always been the type that nine times out of ten, I'd get on myself more than the coach," Leister says. "I've got to be more calm and keep my wits on. I'm not going to be able to just change it, I'm just going to try and let some ofit run off my back. 
''I'm looking at this year like I'm going to have fun. Do everything to win, but have fun." 
"He's a perfectionist," said Waters. "When things go wrong he really gets upset. But I think he's outgrown it." 
How important that factor is to MSU cannot be measured -no ruler reaches that far. 
"He's our No. I man," says Otis Grant, one of his top receivers. "If he has a great season, so will we. Gur offense is based on how the quarterback does." 
"I've got the best receivers in the nation," Leister says. "What our offense needs is for me to stay in the pocket more and not roll out and 
. ?(,;'!'-..;,....~,:;; By WILL HARE sports Writer 

Joe Rudzinski is going home this weekend. 
But, unlike his sophomore year two seasons ago when he started regularly as a linebacker, the Farmington, Mich., native may be wondering if he will play at all against Michigan State. 
It all began in the spring. You see, Rudzinski missed the entire spring practice with a shoulder injury. Enter Rick Naylor. 
r,.· 

1 Rudzinski's injury allowed Naylor a chance to step in at the ; _, strongside linebacker position. Naylor jumped on the oppor­\.-. >-tunity, impressing Linebacker Coach George Kelly enough to 
\ .." , earn t~e starting spot. . . . . . ,~./ "With the shoulder 111Jury, I mtssed all ofthts sprmg, says Rud­zinski. "That's what hurt me the most as far as my starting role is concerned. "Because I missed the spring, Rick excelled and that's where things turned around. He won the spot and I just didn't win it back from him this year." 
It has been a difficult season so far for Rudzinski, adapting to a new role as a substitute. He failed to appear in the Michigan game and was called in to the Purdue game only after Naylor was shaken up. 
Against Purdue, Rudzinski obviously showed his desire to avoid the bench as much as possible. He blitzed with animal-like intensity and helped shut down Purdue's passing game in the second half. 
"I was fired up to get in but Rick got hurt," adds the linebacker. "You have to be ready to jump in because they (the coaches) might call on me at any time. I was happy to play but it's a shame Rick got hurt." 
He especially would like to play against Michigan State. Paul Rudzinski, Joe's older brother, starred at linebacker for the Spar­tans and played for the Green Bay Packers until being cut this season. 
"When my brother played there," says Rudzinski, "I went there (Spartan Stadium) every Saturday for the home games. A lot of Michigan State is in my blood. I came very close to going there. 
"My brother played there all the time and as a kid, visualizing myself playing in the same turf that he did always stuck in my mind. This may be the biggest game of the year for me." 
Whether Rudzinski, a senior, can take hack 
his starting slot from Naylor, a junior. remains 
to he seen. Rudzinski knows it will not he an 
easy task. 
"Rick's an excellent athlete," he ack­
nowledges. "The only way I could get my 
position hack is to play twice as hard as I've 
ever played." 
The question of whether to play Rudzinski 
or Naylor is baffling the coaches, hut no one is 
complaining. 
"Practices arc halfofwhat a game is as far as 
physical and mental effort," says the 6-3, 224­
pound Rudzinski. "If you perform well in the 
game, they (the coaches) will look at that 
much more closely, and will take that more 
into consideration than practices. 
"Being a Sam Linebacker (a trade name for an outside linebacker), the biggest thing is holding up the tight end because we're lined up on the tight end most of the time. The big­gest thing they (the coaches) look at is how we can handle the tight end one-on-one in blocking situations." 
It is a difficult chore for Rudzinski to wait 
around for his chance to prove his ability once 
again. 
As an example, senior fullback John Sweeney started thirty games in his first three Irish seasons. Now Sweeney is a reserve and has tried to help the team out by moving to the tight end position. 
In other words, when playing for Notre Dame, losing a starting job often comes with the territory. 
For Rudzinski, however, the determination to win back the starting slot is intense. 
"After last week's game." says Rudzinski, "maybe the coaches will re-evaluate things and I'll get to start." 
As the daily dogfight on the practice field continues, one must feel that the competition between Rudzinski and Naylor is making each player much more aggressive. 
Besides, a little depth never hurt anyway. 
• Leister 
panic like I did. 
"It seemed like when the pocket crumbled, 
I'd try to break out. That's not how our passing 
game works. I've got to sit back there and 
maybe take a sack once in a while. But not 
panic and give an interception. 
"And if! throw an interception, it won't be 
the end ofthe world. What I'll do is go tackle 
the guy and take the ball right back." 
Meet the new John Leister. Busy signals 
now get laughs. 
*** 
The words of Otis Jones could not have 
been more prophetic. 
Leister moved over the 3,000-yard career . passing mark, and into second place -behind Ed Smith -on the all-tin!• .·aJing Spartan passer list. But things have ;)een as rosy as the stats make it seem. 
In the tlrst three games of l9H2, John Leis­
ter has completed just 4 I pt'fcent of his 
passes, has thrown only two touchdowns 
while tossing six interceptions. 
Michigan State, meanwhile. is 0-.~. 
It's almost a sure bet that the pertimnance of John Leister tomorrow afternoon will determine whether the Spartans are 0--i or 1-3 by nightfall. And that worries Muddy Waters. 
"If John has a fault, it's that he tries too hard," says Waters. "He thinks he has to carry the weight of the world on his shoulders, and he tends to press. We have heen working with him -with some success -on waiting ti>r the play to develop. then throwing. 
"Notre Dame has a respectable secondary. hut it's vulnerable. We will have to go to the air, because they shut down the run so well. That puts even more pressure on John. 
"But I think he'll be all righl." If he is all right, Leister and his teammates may have cause tor a big celebration. 
Dave Duerson· 


Shaking down thunder 
heerleaders stay 'behind the Irish' 
-=ws_.: 
IRISH EXTRA -MICHIGAN STATE 
-

• • • Tough 
continuedfrom page 9 
"They really concern us," he says. "They're a well-coached team and they're very quick and very strong. Their schedule ha~ been unbelievable, but they always get ready for Notre Dame. 
"They're going to jell-hopefully after our game." 
The key to the Michigan State attack is, without a doubt, senior quarter­backJohn Leister. The 6-2, 187-pound Leister has had a rollercoaster career at MSU, and even in his career against Notre Dame. 
It was Leister who, two seasons ago, nearly single-handedly beat Dan Devine's Sugar Bowl-bound Irish at Spartan Stadium. The Great Falls, Mont., native filled the air that day with 32 passes (out of only 62 total offensive plays) and, although he ...:ompleted only 11, he covered 204 yards and was only intercepted once in the tension-filled 26-21 Irish victory. The Notre Dame secondary was beat on deep patterns often that October afternoon. 
But Leister came down to earth in the 1981 rematch. He completed just 4-of-10 passes for only 41 yards before he was benched in favor of Bryan Clark. 
So far this season, Leister has been a disappointment. But his stats -41 percent completions, six interceptions and only two touchdowns -don't tell the whole story. The Spartans have been outscored 31-0 in the fourth quarter in three games this year, and each time it has been Leister's inability to make the big play or lead the big drive that has contributed to their demise. 
Faust, not one to hurt anybody's feelings however, still speaks highly of Leister. 
"Leister is an excellent quarterback," says Faust. "We remember what he did to Notre Dame two years ago. He has tremendous wide receivers, the best we've faced this year. He also has an excellent veteran line to give him protection." 
The Spartan receivers certainly are top-notch. Two of them, seniors Otis Grant and Ted Jones, combined to catch five passes for 81 yards in the 1980 game. Grant is without question Leister's No. 1 target, as he's caught 14 passes for 268 yards (nearly 20 yards a catch) this year. In addition, he's snared Leister's only two touchdown tosses. 
On defense, the Spartans are led by linebackerJames Neely, a South Bend native who has recorded 42 tackles in three contests. The MSU defensive front line is no slouch either, and will be tough to run against -just ask Miami, which needed four rushing plays to gain one yard for the winning touchdown to beat the Spartans last week. 
Notre Dame will counter this defense with tailback Phil Carter ( 210 yards in two games), who figures to see much more playing time because of the injury to backup Greg Bell in last week's 28-14 victory over Purdue. Faust says that he will move freshman Allen Pinkett into Bell's reserve role, but that Pinkett will not see the same amount ofaction as Bell did. 
The other half of Notre Dame's two-pronged backfield attack is fullback Larry Moriarty, who has surprised many so far by leading the team in rushing with an average of Ill yards a game: 
Irish Cheerleader 
By DONNA WITZLEBEN 
Sports Writer 

It is said that the toughest job in athletics is being the head football coach at Notre Dame. This is mainly due to the much-heralded and impressive past of Notre Dame football. Rich with unsurpassed tradition and lore, football at Notre Dame has for years embodied the wholesome spirit of competition in intercol­legiate athletics. The people responsible:: for the perpetuation and manifestation of this unique spirit are the Notre Dame cheer­leaders. 
This might seem like a tough task for 15 stu­dents, but with the help offellow students and alumni, it is a job well done. In speaking with co-captain Jojo Bautista one gets the distinct impression that it is also a job much-enjoyed. Frequent smiles come to her face as she remembers tryouts and her t1rst year on the squad. Bautista, together with co-captain Paul 
Pineda organize and lead the squad. 
l 'nlike most schools. the Notre Dame 
cheerleaders come from all over the country 
and world (Lynette Boggs i~ from West <.ier­
many ). thus practices over the summer are 
impossible. So they return to campus early, 
practicing up to six hours a day. 
Once classes start there is a marked dif­ference in the practice atmosphere "During the year we practice two hour~ a day, except on Sundays. And once the reality ofclasses and workloads sets in there is a definite build up of tension at our practices," explains Bautista. As a pre-med major, she has had to budget her time around cheerleading very carefully. "At times it isn't easy. Things will go along 
smoothly and then you will be hit with a couple of tests. Then that panicky feeling sets in and you think "What am I doing'" 
A typical football weekend for the squad begins with the pep rally on Friday night and ends with the game on Saturday.The weekend can be both physically and emotinally drain­ing. They get in uniform at about 10:30 in the morning and try to get the fans psyched up by performing on the quad. Then they go to the 

,.... 
\ 

The passing game also is in good shape, quarterback Blair Kiel calling the shots. The junior has completed 62 percent of his passes without an interception. His favorite receiver has been tight end Tony Hunter, who has caught I l passes for 148 yards in the two Irish victories. 
So, on the surface, it looks like a mismatch. But Spartan Stadium has not exactly been Dis­neyland for Notre Dame teams in the past. In their last two visits, the Irish have won twice against outmatched Spartan opponents but by a grand total of only nine points, making this place a veritable chamber ofhorrors for Notre Dame. 
Now you know why Gerry Faust is scared. 
IRISH ITEMS: Game time is 1 .p.m. EDT, which is 12 noon in South Bend ... For those ofyou not making the road trip, the game will be televised on Channel 16 . . . Cavernous Spartan Stadium is sold out for this one, and a crowd of over 76,000 is expected ... The Irish will return to campus by bus immediate­ly after the game. Arrival time will be about 7:30. 
Friday, October 1, 1982 -page 11 
Aaron Roberts 

stadium and cheer at the game which lasts un­til 5 o'clock. 
The Michigan weekend was especially 
draining on the squad, due to the inclement 
weather and the long drawn-out build up ro 
the game. "Our squad is in really bad shape 
right now after that Michigan weekend. Some 
of us have strep throat and a cold. I think that 
after that night game we all prefer the after­
noon ones. We literally went all day -until 
about 12:30 at night," Bautista states. Bautista 
herself is nursing a foot injury, acquired 
during practice, which will take about two 
more weeks to heal. 
Being a cheerleader for Notre Dame in­
volves more that dance routines and mounts. 
With appearances at alumni pep rallies and 
other schools, the cheerleaders are very im­
portant for the public relations of the Univer­
sitY. As representatives of the school they 
ha~e the enormous responsibility of present­ing a positive image of Notre Dame to the country. "A l<)t of people draw their conclu­sions about the Notre Dame student body 
from us. I know that when we went to an 
alumni pep rally in Michigan we were really 
impressed with the \1ichigan State cheer­leaders. and thus with the student body as a whole, because via the cheerleaders one can get a glimpse ofwhat the student body is like," BautiMa states. 
In the past these interactions wilh other schools were limited due to a lack offunds for travel. But for the first time the cheerleaders are receiving trip money from the Athletic Department, though they are still not con­sidered a varsity sport. They also receive a 
small allowance from student acrhities and St. 
Mary's. They will be travelling this-year to 
,'\1ichigan State, Pittsburgh, the Meadowlands 
for the Navy game, and nine of them will be 
going to the CSC and Oregon games. The 
Oregon trip was somewht ofa surprise to the 
squad, but when the Oregon alumni club dis­
covered that the cheerleaders were not com­
ing, the club insited on funding the flight out 
for the group. And of course a trip to a bowl 
game, any bowl game. is a trip that they all 
hope to make this january. 
_j

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-------~~-~~~~~~~~~~~-------· 
IRISHEXTRA-MICHIG4N•S•T•A•T•E.....................__._._.._._.__.._~F~r~id~a~y~,O~c~to~b~eir~l~,~l~9i8i2-.~p-aig~e~l~2­
Fighting ·Irish vs. Spartans 
Fighting Irish vs. Michigan State Spartans Spartan Stadium (76,000) 
12:00 p.m. EST Saturday, Oct. 2, 1982 WNDU-TV (Ch. 16) )eff)effers andjack Nolan 

Metrosports Replay Network Harry Kalas and George Connor 10 a.m. Sunday WNDU,TV ( Ch. 16) 
Notre Dame-Mutual Radio Network Tony Roberts and AI Wester WNDU-AM 1500 
SERIES: Notre Dame .30, Michigan State 16, Ties 1 LAST MEETING: Oct. 3, 1981 at Notre Dame, Ind. 
Notre Dame 20, Michigan State 7 RANKINGS: (AP) Notre Dame 11th, Michigan State unranked TICKETS: Game is sold out · · 
J 

he Schedule 
, NOTREDAME 

!SEPT 18 beat MICHIGAN, 23-17 -~EPT 25 beat PURDUE, 28-1-l 
OCT 3 at Michigan State 
OCT. 9 MIAMI (FLA.) 
pCT 16 ARIZONA 
OCf. 23 at Oregon 

OCT 30 Navy at Meadowlands 
NOV. 6 at Pittsburgh 
f'IOV. 13 PENN STATE 
NOV_ 20 at Air Force 
OV. 27 at Southern Cal 
MICHIGAN STATE SEPT. I I lost at Illinois, 23·16 SEPT I H lost to OHIO STATE, 31-10 SEPT. 25 lost at Miami (Fla.), 25-22 OCT. 2 NOTRE DAME OCT 9 at Michigan OCT 16 at Wisconsin OCT. 23 PURDUE OCT 30 at Indiana · NOV. 6 NORTHWESTERN NOV. 13 at Minnesota NOV. 20IOWA 

"" ,
'"'lr 
"'' 2 ~ 

...,r ,
\ 

-t ,":fl T'Tl 1 r . f lfl;\r­

15 


-
~ 
r-.. 6,11!1[124 123'122 121 120 L_l I ____ 

The Sports 
DAVE DZIEDZIC 



TOTAL OFFENSE YARDS 882 Total Plays 148 Yards per Pia y 56 Yards per Game 4110 PENAL TIES-YARDS 12-108 FUMBLES-LOST 2-1 Yards Returned 0 TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 40 
By Rush1ng 30 By Passing 10 By Penalty 0
N.D. 

THIRD DOWNS-CONV 12-31 Percentage 387 POSSESSION TIME 69:32 Minutes per Game 34:46
{2-0) 

SCORING GTO PAR-PAS 
The Statistics 
G NO YOS AVG TO LG

TEAM STATISTICS NO OPP RUSHING 
Moriarty 2 35 222 6.3 3 3i .120 
516 
P Carter 2 41 210 5.1 2 25 4.3 
Bell 2 24 123 5.1 1 19 258.0 
Brooks 2 3 10 3.:3 0 4 5·34 Pinkett 1 1 1 1.0 0 1 3-3 Kiel 2 5 0 00 0 9 ~ 0 30 
NOTREOAME 2 109 566 5.2 6 37 6 OPPONENTS 2 60 52 0.8 0 19 22 
2 
5-27 
PUNTING G NO YOS AVG LG
.185 
50:28 
2 14 595 42.5 60
25:14 
NOTREOAME 2 14 595 42.5 60 FG TP OPPONENTS 
2 15 654 436 62 

Monarty 
Johnston 
P Carter 
Bell
M.S. U. 
2  3  0-0  0-0 0  
2  0  6-6  0-0 0  
2  2:  0-0  0-0 0  
2  1  0-0  0-0 0  

0-0 18 3·3 15 0-0 12 PUNT RET NO YOS AVG TO LG 

NO 2 6 6-6 0-0 0 3-3 51 OPP 2 4 4-4 0-0 0 1-1 31
{0-3) NOTREOAME OPPONENTS PASSING G NO co PCT INT YOS TO K1el 2 39 24 615 0 256 
o KICKOFF RET 
0-0 6 Duerson Bell 
7 49 7 0 0 14 1 12 12 0 0 12 ­
8 61 7 6 0 14 5 83166 172" 
NO YOS AVG TO LG 
0 Bell 3 50 16 6 0 18

NO 2 3~ 24 615 0 256 
OPP 2 60 37 617 1... 464 3 RECEIVING G NO Y-DS AVG TO LG 
----------~--------
Hunler  2  11  148, 13 5  0  25  
Howard  2  4  58  14.5  0  22  
Monarty  2  4  15  3.8  0  6  
Bell  2  3  20  67  0  7  
Jackson  2  9  90  0  9  
P Carter  2  5  50  0  5  

NOTREOAME 2 24 255 10 6 0 25 OPPONENTS 2 37 464 12 5 3 39 
P1nkett 2 46 23 0 0 23 P Carter 18 18 0 0 18 
NOTREOAME  6  114 19 0  0 23  
OPPONENTS  9  173 19 2  0 25  
INTRET  NO YOS AVG TO LG  

Duerson 0 0 0 0 
NOTREOAME 1 0 0 0 0 OPPONENTS 0 0 0 0 0 

ROAD -TRIP!!!! 


·ooN'T FORGET THE TIME CHANGE 



Staff's Predictions 

SKIP DESJARDIN WilL HARE CHRIS NEEDLES RICH O'CONNOR 


Assoc. Spol'ts Editor Sports Editor Emeritus Sport.<; Writer Sports Editor Sports Writer 15-9-1 .625 14-10-1 .583 14-10-1 .583 14-10-1 .583 10-14-1 .417 
Panthers Panthers Panthers Panthers Panthers Hoosiers Hoosiers Wolverines Wolverines Hoosiers Buckeyes Seminoles Seminoles Buckeyes Buckeyes 
War Eagle's Huskers War Eagles Huskers Huskers Boilers Boilers Badgers Badgers Badgers Trojans Trojans Ducks Trojans Ducks 
Illini Illini Illini Gophers Gophers 
!•

Gators Gators Gators Gators Gators 

i 
I •

Wildcats Wildcats Wildcats Hawkeyes Wildcats 
Middies Middies Middies Middies Blue Devils Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish

-.. 
Each \Yl't:k. 7be (ii)SeJ-rer ~port!-> ~taft· pr.edil t tht: outcome of tht: wed.'s major colkge foot­ball games. Records are compill:d a!> to how each writt:r doe~ 
against the sprnul. HO:\IE TEAM 
is in capital lettt:rs. 

PITTSBURGH over W. Virginia by 10 MICHIGAN over Indiana by 17 OHIO STATE over Florida State by 6 Nebraska over AUBURN by I 0 PURDUE over Wisconsin by 2 SOUTHERN CAL over Oregon by 26 MINNESOTA over Illinois by 6 FLORIDA over Louisiana State by 9 lOWA over Northwestern by 2 5 DUKE over Navy by 15 NOTitE DAME over Michigan State by 7 
t-:::·=~ ,-·-~-· .
-


~~~~.-------~--~---.~------~--~----~-------r-----------------------=~~------------~-----­
The Irish Extra 
The Observer ~rts Sl1pplement 


Faust, Irish all set for Michigan 
By KELLY SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame marketing majors have made a small fortune selling T -shirts this week that read "The Irish do it in the dark." No question about it, the lights around Notre Dame's Stadium tommorow night will be the focus ofattention -until kick-off. Then it will be time for Gerry Faust and his team to show everyone just how much they've learned since they last took the field. 
"In some ways, I'm a little bit more at ease than I was before our first game last year," says the second-year head coach. "because I know the whole scope ofcollege football much better now. 
"But on the other hand, I'm more nervous because we're going up against a highly-ranked team right off the bat. Either way, I'm just anxious to get started again. We're a better football team, but there's no way to prove that until we play." 
But according to the Irish coaching staff, Michigan, too, is a be£ter football team than the one that drubbed Notre Dame 25-7 a year ago. "Jay Robertson (defensive line coach) coached at Wisconsin last yearwhen they beat Michigan," Faust says. "We sent him up to watch those two play last week. He felt that Wisconsin had a better team this year, but Michigan really handled them. They have all the in­gredients to be great this season." 
See IRISH, page 13 

Tale of two quarterbacks 
By LOUIE SOMOGYI Kiel completed his three-year career at Columbus (Ind.) East High 
Sports Writer with 4,977 yards of total offense and 54 touchdowns (passing and running) to his credit. In his senior year he led East to .-, 13-0 slate and the Class-AAA state championship. 
"Junior quarterback Blair Kiel won the job 
Smith led his team into the playoffs in Michigan -throwing for in spring practice, but Kiel hasn't been an ef­1,926 yards and 26 touchdowns in his senior campaign. His 4. 5 fective passer ... and Faust wants to pass a lot speed in the 40-yard dash was an extra bonus. this fall ... Nobody is saying so, but there's an Their freshman collegiate seasons contrasted sharply. While underlying feeling that if should Kiel falter -Smith saw very little action as a third-string quarterback, Kiel had even a little -it might be an excuse for begun making a name for himself by the second game of the season replacing him with heralded sophomore, Ken (ironically, against Michigan). By the fourth game ofthe season, Kiel Karcher." -SportsIllustrated was Notre Dame's startingquarterback-the fir 1st freshman to do so 
"This year Michigan's trigger man is under 
since Ralph Gugliemi in the 1950s. "I was thrown into the fire a the gun. As a sophomore a year ago, quarter­
liHle quicker than I expected, and I had to do a lot ofgrowing up real back Steve Smith got off to a rocky start ... 
quick," reflects Kiel. "But it was one of my goals as a freshman and I Smith gained 2.335 yards, but not the Michi­wouldn't have traded it for anything." 
gan fans' favor. He scored often -27 times After starting off 7-0 and being ranked No. 1, though, Notre Dameagainst the enemy -but seldom with the closed the season with a 2-2-1 record. Kiel's t1nal passing statistics (afans." -Phil Richards, South Bend Tribune. 
38.'7 percent completion rate and no touchdowns) drew the first
Somewhere in the college football world a great talent is always waiting to be displayed. 
questions and criticisms about his competence. Before attaining glory, though, the talented in­With the implementation ofa totally new offensive system by Ger­dividual invariably has to "pay his dues." ry Faust in 1981, and the return ofone ofFaust's greatest high school 
Marcus Allen did it -as a blocking fullback 
stars -Tim Koegel -Kiel's sophomore year brought even greaterfor Charles White -before he went on to win 
obstacles. Nevertheless, optimism ran rampant among the fans. 

the Heisman Trophy himself Scott Zettek had Meanwhile, spirits in Ann Arbor were also peaking in the autumn to live through two years off with major knee of 1981. With 16 starters returning (including seven legitimate All­surgery before attaining All-America honors America candidates) from a team that finished No. -l in 1980, the
in his senior season. Wolverines were the odds-on favorites for the national champion­
This weekend at Notre Dame Stadium, two ship.
junior quarterbacks -each of whom has . b.:c:n pitying dues -get a chance to display 
john Wangler, who had performed so splendidly the previous the talent and gain the glory. On national year, had graduated, but Smith still had the benefit of the awesome television, no less. Blair Kiel and Steve Michigan offensive unit. His job would be simple: handoff to All­Smith have not overcome the disadvantages of American Butch Woolfolk, and throw to All-American Anthony Car­inglorious positions or physical injuries. But ter, while being protected by the All-America linemen Ed Muransky. the two have had to overcome the mental an­Bubba Paris and Kurt Becker. guish oftrying to gain acceptance and respect 
In the year ofpromise for the young sopho­

from the press, as well as over-zealous fans and more fieldgenerals, however, autumn literallyalumni. 
became the "fall" of 1981. The season divided Respect and acceptance were the least of into three very similar parts for both ofthem. the quarterbacks' problems when they 
The first part was the nightmare start. In the arrived at their respective schools in the fall of opening-game loss to Wisconsin for then-No. ;9~D· Just about every scout in the business 1-ranked Wolverines, Smith managed to com­listed the y01.i~~~ters as the top !'o/.0 b!ue-chip plete only three of 18 passes and was inter­prospects at their position. :-!~!lor and glory at cepted three more times. Five weeks later, tradition-laden football schools see~~d cer­nothing had improved. Against eventual Big-See QB's, page 13 
tain. Steve Smith 

~· 
.... 
Anthony Carter 
... 


-..,. 
.,· 
.·~~~· 
By DAPHNE BAILLE 
Sports Writer 

"This Anthony Carter is something else! Nobody in the United States ofAmerica could btwe stopped that passfrom getting into Car­ter's bands! ... " 
This was the commentary of an exhuherant ·Michigan announcer two years ago after the little sophomore receiver made a spectacular catch for the Wolverines. 
Now in his senior year, Anthony "The Dar­ter" Carter is still stopping hearts and electrifying crowds with his dazzling play. He has been called everything from "the human torpedo" to "the 161-pound touchdown machine," andSports Illustrated says he "runs so fast it's tough to catch him even on tllm." 
"Spectacular," "explosive," and "dynamic" are terms Bo Schem­bechler likes to use when describing his star receiver. The Michigan head coach has even said, "Anthony Carter is without question the most exciting player in college football." 
These descriptions may SO!Jnd biased or exaggerated, but in the case of Carter, they are well deserved. The two-time All-American has ama.~sed statistics impressive enough to make him the only receiver considered in line for the Heisman Trophy this year. 
In three years at Michigan, Carter has caught 1 1 H passes for an amazing 1H.2 yards per reception, and he has taken fully one-fourth of these passes into the end zone. Before the 19H2 season began, he was already Michigan's leader in touchdown receptions ( 29 ), recep­tion yards ( 2,232 ), and kickoff return yards ( 1,246 ). 
In his three games against Notre Dame, the wide receiver has nabbed six passes for 152 yards -an average of 2S yards per catch. One of those was a 71-yard touchdown play that aided in the Wol­verine victory last fall. 
Figures like these are enough to frighten any secondary, hut Notre Dame defensive hacks feel prepared to handle the human dynamo. "We realize that Carter is a great receiver," notes free·sa.fety and senior tri-captain Dave Duerson. "It's a challenge to he able to defend against a receiver like him -hut in no way a.re we in­timidated hy him. We will have to he very conscious of every mo­
ment he's in the game." 

Even if he's on the tield, a receiver cannot automatically pile up the statistics. He often faces double coverage, and he's always at the mercy of his quarterback. Carter will have to contend with these problems against the Irish. 
~· 
'I 
Duerson explains, "Carter is a great one, but to be great somebody's got to put the ball in his hands. We're going to put a strong pass rush on (Michigan quarterback) Steve Smith so.?is ~a.~sing won't be a~ effective. 
We n\•• gomg to be a more offensive defense. We're not going to sit hack and see what they do -we'll he more explosive." 
The Irish defensive backs are readv to ex­plode, especially when they recall la~t yea.r's humiliating 2 5-7 defeat at Ann Arbor. In that contest, Carter grabbed three passes and scored on two of them, accounting ti:>r 99 of 
Michigan's 103 passing yards. 
"La.~t year was an embarrassment," remem­bers Duerson. "We've put all that behind us now, hut that feeling is still in the hack ofour minds. The Michigan loss was the start of the 
turmoil." 
Although the Irish will have their hands full with the likes of Carter and Smith, the going won't exactly he easy for the Wolverines 
either. The Irish secondary wa.~ ranked in the top twenty last sea.~on, and it boasts some stars ofits own. 
Duerson has started 27 games in three vears and has played at everv spot in the secon.dan·. The All-America candidate led the team ln minutes-played la.~t year while delivering 55 tackles. In his career at Notre Dame the hard­hitting Duerson ha.~ recovered thre~ fumbles, intercepted five passes, and broken up ten 
passes. 
Strong safety joe Johnson is also a ven· physical player, and one of the most versatil~ hacks in the secondary. He is backed by veteran Rod Bone, who will be used frequent­
ly in nickel defense situations. 
At the corners, Stacev Toran and Chris Brown are ready to defe~d against whatever comes their way. Toran has been a sta.rter since his freshman year and wa.~ third among the Irish in playing time last year. The junior is especially skilled as a one-on-one pass defen­der. Brown, a smart and physical player, also returns as a starter. He'll play weak corner while Toran plays strong. 
So there you have it -Anthony Carter and associates versus the defensive hacks of Notre Dame. It should he quite a match-up. 



£2 as U&Z.d as zn_ a 03 au a sa a a cs a a: ... .%2 D _iSS_ a I !bE 
q 

The .t._ I-·!ichigan Friday, September 17, 19o2 -p:1gc 13 
.......~I.H~" Lool..,.o;;;:::,.....__ Iii:~ 
continuedfrom page I I 

Wide receiver Anthony Carter is the Wolverines' star, but he's 
certainly not the whole show. Quarterback Steve Smith is what Faust 
calls "a double threat -he runs a quick option and he's developed 
into a top passer." Lawrence Ricks is another in the long line of 
quality Michigan tailbacks -he's coming oil a 153-yard perfor­
mance against Wisconsin. On defense. the ·wolves return their top 
two tacklers in linebackers Mike Boren and Paul Girgash. 

"Maybe Michigan did lose some names from last year," Faust says, 
"but they always have people who get the job done, that's the bot­
tom line. 

"We have 18 starters back, but that's not real signitkant when it 
comes from a 5-6 team," he joked. "Michigan's got all the advantages 
on us -they've played a game, tested new things and gained 
momentum from a win. We just have to go out and execute better 
thao they do tomorrow." 

Much ofthe expected improvement in the Irish should come from a slightly revamped offense -one which emphasizes the short pas­sing game and eliminates the wingback position. That will afford quarterback Blair Kiel and Co. a better chance to move the football. 
'"The most encouraging thing about our offense this fall has been the play ofBlair Kiel at quarterback," contlrms Faust. "He knows he's the man and he believes we all have confidence in his ability to be our Marter." 
Having Tony Hunter set at tight end tlgures to be another plus for the Notre Dame air attack. "We think he can really t be a consistent threat at that position," says Faust. "And we'll also involve our runnig backs a little more in the short passing game -our philosophy will he based on the high-percentage completion." 
Kid has plenty of targets to aim at -the decision on who the wide-outs will be was still in tht" evaluation stage this week, though it's a sure bet sophomore Joe Howard will b<: one. Freshmen Milt jackson and Van Pearcy are the top names for the open slot, but Mike Haywood and Chris Stone are still contending. 
Senior tri-captain Phil Carter and junior Greg Bdl still are just about even at tailback -with freshman sp<:edster Allen Pinkett on 
• • • Irish 

their heels. "I wouldn't hesitate to put Pinkett in," Faust says. '"He's 
really shown us a lot this fall, and he's made Phil and Greg both better 
tailbacks." 
Senior Larry Moriarty will get the nod at fullback, but expect 
seniorJohn Sweeney and sophomore Mark Brooks to see duty, too. 
Sweeney may play some tight end in short-yardage or goal-line situa­
tions also. 
Whoever carries or catches the ball Saturday will do so behind 
what Faust expects to be a faster and stronger line. "Anytime you put 
a couple ofsolid teams like Michigan and Notre Dame out tere, what 
happens in the trenches makes a big difference. Michigan just 
dominated the line ofscrimmage all day long last year in Ann Arbor, 
and they never kt us establish anthing. 
"We've got to become more dominant up front or we'll have 
problems moving the foorball, that's all there is to it. We didn't con­
trol the line often enough last year, and that's been a major focus 
point for us ever since the season ended." 
Th<: offensive line will list Mike Kelley and Larry Williams at the tackle positions, regulars Tom Thayer and Randy Ellis at the two guard spots and Mark Fischer at cemer. 
Defensively, the Irish are solid up front with returnees Kevin Grif­fith, Jon Autry, Bob Clasby and sophomore Mike Gann on the line. Tri-captain Mark Zavagnin joins Mike Larkin and Rick Naylor in the linebacking corp, and Dave Duerson, joeJohnson, Chris Brown and Stacey Toran will start in the s<:condary. 
Faust ha.~ split kicking chores betwe<:n senior walk-on Mike Johnston and freshman Hal Von Wyl. "1\-lik·_ will handle kick-offs, extra points and tleld goals inside the 25 yard line," he explain~. "and Hal will probably kick any tleld goals longer than that." 
_The Irish are in good shape physically -off<:nsive tackle Mike Shiner and split end Mike Favorite are the only regulars who won't dress -and mentally as wdl. Faust says the team won't use the revenge factor to motivate itselffor Michigan. 
"We'd really be riding an emotional roller coaster alii sea.-;on ifwe looked at opponents that way. Last year was last year-it's over. We just want to attack each game one at a time and play the best football we can." 
• • • QB's 
continuedfrom page I I 
Big-Ten Champs Iowa, Smith was 6-for-20, and threw a key interception deep in Hawkeye territory. Michigan lost 9-7. 
Kiel had difficulties as well, while alternating at quar­terback with Koegel. Of his first 21 passes, Kiel com­pleted only 7, and five were intercepted. The Irish started off 2-3. 
The second part of the season was better for both men. After Iowa, Smith went on a four-game tear, averaging 11.4 yards per pass attempt. He racked up 3-iO yards of total offense and six touchdowns against Illinois, and earned the AP's "Midwestern Offensive Player of the Week" award. 
Kiel improved his statistics as well, averaging 16 yards per completion, and throwing six scoring strikes. "So what" became an all-too-frequently-heard ex­
pression among fans of both teams, however. 
First of all, the opposition was not the most for­
midable for either team. Secondlv, more credit was 
given to the two small but explo-sive split ends, Joe 
Howard and Carter, for having made their quarterbacks 
seem better. The final chapter for both quarterbacks featured season-ending, nationally-televised embarassments. 
The dues have been paid. 
The challenges, however, will always remain. 
Smith was 9-for-26 and had three passes picked off in a 14-9 home loss to bitter rival Ohio State. Six days Ia!<:I Kiel was suffering through a I 0-for-2 5, two interception performance in a 3 7-1 5 Joss to Miami (Fla.) 
The disappointments of 1981 remain with them. The criticisms come back to haunt them. 
Through it all,_ Kiel has been able to hang on to his dignity, politeness, and sanity. 
'"I can't be concerned with what people say or write about me anymore," he admits. "Everything that can possibly be said about me -the good and the bad ­has been said. I have reached the point now where I believe that if I can't get the job done, I want the coaches to get me out ofthere and put somebody else in there -for good -who can. 
IRISH EXTRA 
DESIGNED AND EDITED BY 
Skip Desjardin 
"Rigq_t now, though, I'm not in the least bit worrie<f\about my position. I'm just going to go out on the field and do the absolute best that I can. I don't consider myself a conceited person, but after all the experiences I've been through in my two years here I feel that I have grown mentally stronger. I'm very confident and relaxed right now. It's high time now to go out on that field and play the kind of foot­ball! know we are capable of." 
Smith, too, has gained confidence and relaxation as a result of the trials. 
"I don't like to be embarrassed," he says. "I will improve. I've got to improve. I was a little nervous last year. I know what to expect now. I feel confident; the butterflies are gone." 
"He's come along-as we expected," says his coach, Bo Schembechler. "It was a mental thing to take over the leadership role with 100,000 people watching you. It's tough. If it were easy, why would you see guys take three or four years to learn to play pro ball? The defenses are so much more complex these days. What you ask a college quarterback to do today is like night and day compared to what you asked him to do five years ago." 
Their dues have been paid. Now, for the first time in their collegiate careers, they have some peace of mind about themselves and their roles. The challenges, however, will al­ways remain. 
"This is the biggest game of my career with­out a doubt," admits Kiel. "But there will be a lot of important games for us this year. Pressure is just something that you have to deal with all your life." 
In a game that forever will be remembered 
as the one when the lights shined brightly in 
Notre Dame Stadium, two quarterbacks who 
have been in the dark are hoping to shine even 
more. 
Craig Dunaway 


,,r 
a r 

r 



Each week, The Observer 
sports staff predict the outcome of the week's major college foot­ball games. Records are compiled as to how each writer does against the spread. In other words, 1t 1s not enough to pick the winner of a given game. The writer must pick a winner and give the underdog points. 

CHRIS NEEDLES SKIP DESJARDIN DAVE DZIEDZIC WILL HARE RICH O'CONNOR Sports Editor Sports Editor Emeritus Assoc. Sports Editor Sports Writer Sports Writer 
Ohio State over MICHIGAN STATE by 5 Spartans Buckeyes Spartans Buckeyes Buckeyes Illinois over SYRACUSE by 7 Jllini lllmi llllnl lllmi Orangemen PURDU:= even Minnesota Gophers Boilers Gophers Bo1lers Gophers SOUTHERN CAL over Indiana by 20 Trojans Hoosiers Trojans Trojans Hoos1ers PENN STATE over Rutgers by 25 L1ons Lions L1ons Kn1ghts Knights Miami over VIRGINIA TECH by 7 Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurncanes Hok1es Hurncanes Pitt over FLORIDA STATE by 7 Panthers Semmoles Seminoles Panthers Semmoles ARKANSAS over Navy by 17 Hogs Hogs Middies M1dd1es M1dait;G TEXAS TECH over Air Force by 7 Raiders Falcons Ra1ders Falcons 
Raiders Washington over ARIZONA by 9 Huskies Huskies Huskies Wildcats 
Husk ties UCLA over WISCONSIN by 7 Bruins Bruins Badgers Brums 
Brums HOUSTON even Arizona State Cougars Devils Dev1ls Cougars 
Cougars Michigan over NOTRE DAME by 1 Irish Wolvennes Irish Wolverines 
Irish 

The Observer Friday, October 1, 1?82 -page 13 
------------------------------------------------~ 

Quart Beer Specials 
Old Milwaukee $6.99 Budweiser $8.99 Pabst $7.99 
CARLO ROSSI 
DINNER WINES 

·~'!::-· $4~ 9 
BIG 4LITER 

KEG SPECIALS 

Generic Light Budweiser $29.99 

Hamm's

$4. 99 case 24 cans 
************************* 
Strohs 

or Strohs Light 
$6.99 case 24 cans 
************************* 
Shooter Specials (750 ML) 
Jack Daniels $7.99 Jim Beam $5.49 Jose' Cvervo Tequila $6.99 
Frangelico Southern Comfort 
Steel Schnapps 
Fire BaUers 
Bacardi 151° 
r-

Wild Turkey 101 Everclear 19QG (grain alcohol) J·W· Dant100" 
$11.49 $6.49 $6.99 
$8.59 $9.99 
$8.99 $6.59 

r------------------~
1 Wine 1 I J. Roget Champagne 750 ML $1.99 II Riunite Lambrusco 750 ML $1.99 I 
1 Bonifato Bianco 1.5 L 1 Zonin Asti 750 ML 
II 

Bar Stockers 
$1.99 1 
$4.99 1 
II 

I Jim Beam Burbon 1.75 $1 0.99 I I Dark Eves Vodka 1.75 $7.99 I I Ron Rico Rum 1.75 $9.99 I . I Lord Calvert 1.75 $9.99 I 
I I 
Prices Good Thru Oct. 5, 1982 
'~-------------------------------------------------------'' 
-__j ' 



Empotium: woodwotk and mote 
nestaurant reviews·are always dif~ you, unlike the soup at most res­ft.tlcult. I'm torn between deliver­turants. As an appetizer, the broiled ing a keen. cold analysis of the potato skins thick with cheese and dynamics of the baked potato or a real bacon bits ( S2.95) were very wonderfully trite and terribly cliche good. treatment of"Oh, the wonderful The table-side salad was served woodwork!" It's a tough decision. I with condiments brought to the like something in the middle. table_ There was a choice offour 
dressings, two cheeses, almonds. 
suntlower seeds, croutons and ra.~ins. All containers were tilled to the top which is pretty good considering the late hour ofour ar­
restaurants rival. I loved the arrangement. but then I dislike salad bars. The plate of The restaurant of the hour is the 
John Higgins 
lettuce Iwas served, however, could East Bank Emporium located on the 
have stood some sort ofgarnish, at Saintjoseph River at Niles andJeffer­
least peppers or cucumbers ifnot son. The Emporium seems to try to 
tomatoes. be a variety of things/to all people, The variety ofentrees is very good
particularly in terms ofits menu. On featuring polynesian boneless breast
the one page is a fine selection of ofchicken ( S6.95 ), 12-ounce prime
seafood and steak with prices ran­rib ( S11.50), quiche lorraine
ging from S6.95 to $12.95. Turning to the other page, however, one ( 53.45) and a turkey, broccoli and cheese crepe ( S4.25 ). We had the
finds a lighter section with quiche, Florida grouper ( 56.95) and the
crepes and burgers ranging from coconut shrimp ( S9.45 ). The
S2.95 to $5.45. It is also has a nice grouper was tender and well­
bar area with a jazz band playing seasoned. Obvious care had been
each night except Tuesday. taken in its preparation. The shrimp
Actually, your first reaction upon entering is indeed, "Oh, the wonder­
literally made my mouth water. ful woodwork." The Emporium is 
Unlike many resturants which bury tastefully decorated and designed 
their shrimp in batter, the coconut with a lot ofwood-pillars, beams 
breading on these shrimp was thin and railing are prominent on both 
and crisp and the flavor of both was the lower and upper levels. Seated 

wonderful. The mixed vegetables ·by a window with a view of were crisp and flavorful. The baked downtown across the river, I heard 
potato, however, was a little under­the comment, "It's hard to believe 
cooked. your in South Bend." 
The offer ofdessert pained us, we My dining partner and I (My 
were so full ( 12 hours later I still favorite cliche!) started offwith a 
can't eat anything else.) I'll go back margarita and pina colada at the 
sometime for the strawberry waitress' prompting. Neither drink 
cheesecake or Bourbon Street Pie was well blended and the pina 
(no guesses on that one. ) colada had large chunks ofice and 
The Emporium is one of the few tasted more ofpinapple juice than 
opportunities for live jazz entertain­anything else. The rich flavor of 
ment in town. The quiet music with coconut was missing. The other 
our dinner was a plesant accompani­drinks were large and well-made. 
ment. They got louder and louder The wine list was impressive offer­
with each course, however, and bying inexpensive California wines 
the end ofdinner my ever-presentfrom $4.95, tine burgandies from S7 
but elusive partner and I were to Ill Hand champagne up to SH5. 
reduced to merely gazing into each My favorite is a particular Alsatian 
others eyes. white at Sl2.95. The french onion soup ( S 1 . ..,5) is On the whole. I loved the Em­the tlrst I've had with which I didn't porium. If music and atmosphere have to do battle against a pound of aren't enough to bring you in, the mozzarella cheese. There wa.-; just food is. The bar is open until 1 a.m .. enough cheese to cover the bowl so at least take a break from Eddy and not nearly enough to strangle Street. 

TEmPEST blows itself out 
H
as "interesting failure" become with Philip are his sexually ever we move into the psyche of the problem that haunts the whole write gags for the ":vtonkees" TV too trite a phrase to use frustrated lover Aretha (Susan Saran­Philip, the movie becomes alive. movie. lnconsistancy has prevented series) that the only way to anymore? Sorry. But what can I say­don) and his daughter Miranda There is a certain electricity that the parts from gelling into a whole. legitimize themselves is to adapt about a motion picture that attempts (Molly Ringwald) who feels bursts forth in glory whenever So why attempt an updated Shakespeare. Neil Simon has been to update Shakespeare's The Tem­destined to die a virgin as she Dimitrious whispers "show me the Shakespeare at all? This is a vital wallowing in this particular limbo pest into a contemporary examina­blooms into womanhood without magic" and conducts the heavens in question, especially in light of the for years. tion ofthe mid-life crisis. At the very the benetit ofa boyfriend. Also on the magnit1cently orchestrated tem­fact that this is the second movie The question remains whether or least. I've got to admit that Paul the island is Kalibanos (Raul Julia), pests that erupt throughout the with a Shakespearean mood to come not Tempest's slow and uneven Mazu rsky had a lot ofguts to make goat-herder and comic-relief, who movie. Ca.-;savettes gives his most out this season. Woody Allen's pacing is worth treading for the feels destined to prevent Miranda frustratingly intense performances equally inconsistantMidsummer inside Shakespeare jokes and a hand­Dennis Chalifout from dying a virgin. since DePalma's The Fury. He Night's Sex Comedy suffered from ful ofincongruously interesting mo­becomes a personification of the many ofthe same problems. There ments. I say no. Hip refert:nces to the
Ifall ofthis is beginning to sound a tempest, going beyond the self­seems to be a concensus among for­Bard will never legitimize poor
lot like a soap opera, don't think consciousness of the script, con­mer TV writers ( Mazursky used to tllmmaking.
you're alone. What Mazursky and co­

movie review 
cemrating more on the motivations
writer Leon Capetanos have done is that inspired the original Prospero.
Tempest. But while I must admire strip Shakespeare bare ofall his 
the i'ltensity that Mazursky ha.~ put poetry in an attempt to make their The acting throughout the entire into the film, I'm not so sure ifhis dialogue more contemporary motion picture is top-notch with stor line wasn't doomed to failure in sounding. Colloquialisms and vulgar Raul Julia standing out as the bizarre­the · .-~r place. language have replaced iambic pen­ly comic goat lover. Kalibanos 
S: -,me ifyou've heard this tameter Name-dropping runs becomes a representation of just before Philip Dimitrious (John Cas­amuck. Miranda goes out of her way how unjust tht· world can be_ After save.'es) is a disillussioned architect to refer to whatever pop rock band all, Philip ha.~ two women while he who has become sick ofthe world she can think oi After a while, this ha.~ none at all. The knock-our scene he ha-. huilt around himself Not only whole sense of being consciously of the entire movie is an incon­that, hut his wite (Gene Rowlands) "in" begins to wear on the nerves. gruous littk divertiss~:ment fe;ltur­has run offwith his boss (Vittorio "I he inside jokes don't even come ing Kalibanos dancing with a Gassman)_ What's left fo! Philip to close to the Shakespearian spirit. All number ofgoats to the tune of Liza do but reject the corruption of M;:n­that's left are the trashy sub-plot~. \1inelli singmg New York, New hattan and seek out a purer more Yet !'"ven with his ~hortcomings in York. It's all ven· ple:1.~.mt but !'m 
elemental life on a desert island ofl preproduction. Mazursky is able to still not quite certain what it ha~ to the coast of Greece' Keeping house pull off a few good moments. When-do wtth the re!>t of the tllm. This is 
f> 
'· 
The Observer Features Section 
Friday, October 1, 1982 -page 1 5 

Fot the time being 
I 
could alway~ tell \\hen Luke had been drinking beer because he turned ph!losoplucal. I played the game with him. not alway~ ~ure what either one of us was talking about. One Sawrday night, wearing his new Notre Dame ring. he\\ as full of reflections on how quickly hi~ college years were passing. 
When he asked tht· unexpected 4uestion: "What is life?". I knew he had been tapping the :\lolsorf~. I could tell he was in the talkative state of intoxication hy the way he lectured me with inquiries: "What is this ex­perience that divide~ the quick from the dead?" 
Rev. Robert Griffin lettets to a lonely god 
I shook my head. I had 5een reading Hemingway. 
Hemingway leaves me with a distrust ofphilosophy. 
"Life is absolutely dependent on time," Luke said tri­
umphantly, as though he were announcing a 
breakthrough. "Ifyou tell me what time is, I can tell you 
what life is." 
I shrugged my shoulders helplessly. "Don't ask me," I 
said. "I don't even have a watch. Whatever time is, it 
passes too quickly." 
"You disappoint me," he said." I'll have to)<;(!.<.! you 
some books." He cleared his throat, and I felt I should be 
taking notes. "Life is the way I participate in the exist­
ence of the universe. Heaven will be all time-pas~. 
present, future -meeting simultaneously; theologians 
call the experience eternal life. Right now, what I am 
enjoying is for the time being. I can lose it, separate 
myself from it, or be altogether irresponsible in how I 
treat it." 
I felt as though someone had painted me into the cor­
ner ofa Picasso canvas. "Luke," I said sympathetically, 
"you must have had a hard week. Maybe you're taking 
too many courses." · 
He was flying too hard for me to flag him down. "Did 
you ever think," he said, "that when you were born, you 
became the member ofa conspiracy? You grow up, go 
to sd!_ool, wonder about God. All ofa sudden, one day it 
hits you that you have this secret identity as a co­
conspirator." 
"Once. when Iwas your age, I thought I had stumbled 
onto some secret ofthe gods," I said. "I had probably 
been drinking at the time. I got sober, and older, and I 
forgot what the secret was." 
"Age, the idea ofgrowing older, is a heresy." It 
sounded nice, but I didn't believe him. He w·ent on~" 
Teen-agers think that theirs is the only game in to~;Vn. Af­
ter twenty, they say, it's down hill all the way. Their 
parents express their agreement by being jealous ofthe 
young." 
I gave a sigh for all the faded energies. Ienjoyed being 
young, but I never thought it was a special time. Old 
people in nursing homes get treated like folk heroes on 
their one hundreth birthdays, as though there were a 
Next week 
certitlable grcatnes~ in keeping the cho-lesterol count low and the undertaker unemployed. I wonder how special I'll feel on my hundreth hirthday~ I'll probably just he grumpy because I want a nap. 
"What is the Saturday night secret that makes you feel like a co-conspirator~" I asked out ofcuriosity. 
"Existence," he said obscurely. "Nothing is prombed except for the time heing. Everything i~ hcst in its own place. The gras~ is as important as the tree~. The valleys arc as praiseworthy as the sky. What would happen. in a symphony, if the orchestra tried to content itselfwih pl!l}'ing every other note of the score?" 
I nodded my head as though I we!"e a disciple hearing riddles from the lips of Buddha. Luke lapsed into silence with hes eyes closed. I thought: the guru is falling as-.• leep. I went hack to reading Hemingway. 
Fifteen minutes later, Luke sat up suddenly. "What time is it?" "Time you were in bed." I said. 
"I've got to go back to a party," he said. He was less mellow now, no longer the young Camus. He was plain­Ira little tight, without euphoria. 
"I wish you would forger the party, and go home to 
bed," I said. 
"I've got a date to take a girl back to St. Mary's," he 
said. "She's in no shape to drive. I have her car keys. I 
promised I would see her home. A girl drunk in a guy's 
dorm is asking for trouble." 
"Guys get in trouble too," I said. "Why don't you 
leave the keys with me?" 
"Don't worry," he said. "My roommate is taking us. 
and he's on the wagon." He laughed in a pleased way. 
"It'~ nice of you to worry," he said. "Thanks alot." 
He made me feel vet ry virtuous for my concern. "Call 
me when you get back to your room," I said. When he 
inquired why. I explained: "Worrying is a habit I get 
from a slightly Jewish mother." 
He forgot to call. By the time I walked down to his 
dorm to inquire for him at four o'clock, I had given him 
up for dead. After our talk, I had given up on 
Hemingway. During the three and a half hours of 
waiting for a phone call, I thought my way back over 
thirty years, trying to remember the secret of the gods 
that was so important to me one evening when I was 
young. I couldn't put myself in the mood where I was 
positive I had it. Yet. I discovered a memory of myself, 
standing under the stars, full of realization: Life is more 
valuahle than the fire stolen by Prometheus from under 
the deities' noses. The gods watch tirelessly for a 
chance to snatch it away. I must always live in watchful· 
ness oftheir jealousy. 
It's cornball enough for Luke to like it, I thought, if 
he's been drinking. Elders, or old farts, orJewish mot­
hers, feel they must protect the-younger members of 
the tribe, as they protect themselves, from the malice of 
the gods. 
Luke would have thought I was drinking Molson's 
myself if I woke him from sleep at-four o'clock. He 
would never understand the chaplain's spinning 
philosophical fantasies as though he were the young 
Camus. 



.. 

I
t's the weekend again. that favorite time of the week that all in­dustrious students, staff and faculty look forward to. As is the uni­versity's habit at this particular point in the year, there is a foothall game Saturday afternoon. 
Not to interfere with, but rather to enhance, your weekend, below is listed a serious ofevents with which you may choose to vary your activities, should partying, footballing and general fun-making wear you out. 
•THEATRE 
Local theatrical talent presents the only piece ofstage entertain· 
ment this weekend. Loose Ends by Michael Weller, will be per­
formed at South Bend Civic Theatre. A play ofmature subject matter, 
it deals with two married people and their views ofthemselves, their 
friends and their lives. Structured much likeSame Time, Next Year, 
it traces the difficulties that the couple encounter at Y'drious times in 
their married life. Weller creates characters that an audience under­
stands and identifies with. The show will run October 1, t 2, "7, 8, 9. 14 
15 and 16 at South Bend Civic Theatre, located at '01 Portage 
Avenue in South Bend. Tickets can be purchased by calling 234· 
5696. Curtain time is 8:30p.m. 
•MOVIES 
The takeover ofour film screen by foreign directors contiues this 
weekend with Michelangelo Antonioni's 19...,5 film, The Passenger. 
As mainstay of Italian cinema, Antonioni consistently presents stark 
films characterized br detlnitive contrasts. In this film, a hurned-out 
reporter, played by Jack Nicholson, escapes his own identity and 
adopts a new one only to tlnd that he is in as risky a situation as 
before. Antonioni tak~s alienation to its logical c~nclusion, offering 
his viewers a thought-provoking look. This tllm, unlike the others in 
the Friday Night Fil.fll Series, will begin at ...,:30 p.m. in Annenberg 
Auditorium. Tickets are S2. 
Living on campus, most ofus know the feeling ofhaving neigh· bors. With the territory come loud parties, hordes ofpeople and tedious interruptions. With Neighbors, the tllm industry proves that college students "ain't seen nothin' yet'" Starring Dan Ackroyd and the lateJohn Belushi, Neighbors serves as the final film effort ofthe "dynamic duo" ofSaturday Night Live. Like most campus flicks, it can be viewed at the Engineering Auditorium at "", 9 .or 11 p.m. tonight and Saturday night. Despite these showtimes, a word ofwarning to Ackroyd/Belushi followers. Lines will be forming early so plan accordingly. 
•MUSIC 
As is traditional in most schools of music, performance-oriented students present recitals oforiginal compositions for judgingand ex­posure to a public audience. At Indiana University at South Bend 
tonight, senior Daniel F. Swanson will present a program ofhis works in the Northside Recital Hall at 8: I 5 p.m. Seven of his works will be featured, two on four-channel tape and five in live performance. Other student musicians will be participa~ing. There is no admission charge. 
For a variation on a theme of music and celebration, visit Pierre Moran Mall Saturday night at 9:15p.m. The popping ofchampagne corks and an evening ofall-time favorite "Golden Oldies" will usher in the Elkhart County Symphony Association's 35th season in the Pierre Moran MalL The concert will feature Dr. Michael Esselstrom and the Elkhart County Symphony Orchestra in Broadway selections fromShowbout toAnnie and such popular classics as Gershwin'sAn American in Paris, Grote's "On the Trail" from Grand Canyon Suite, Dcr Rosenkavalier Waltz Johann Strauss' Chit-ChatPolka and Tchaikovsky's 1812 Overture. Champagne, beer, soft drinks and several kinds ofsnacks will be provided throughout'the evening for guests' enjoyment. Cabaret seating (by reservation only) and open seatingare available at S4 per person. For more information call 293· 1087. 
•NAZZ 
Tonight, check out Bob Marovich downstairs in Lafortune Cen­ter. Boh plays with a country style and is reputedly quite talented. Then, tomorrow, head over to the Nazz and show offa little yourself. '­Saturday is open stage night at the Nazz, and anv and all who wish to 
try their musical talents in a relaxed atmosph~re are welcome. •OUTLOOK Our old friends in the Communication and Theatre Department will he presenting two films this coming Monday evening as a part of the Monday Night film Series. I and II. First up is Howard Hawks'His Girl Friday starring the stunning Rosalind Russell as the star repor­ter that get~ hooked on a lead and can't let go. Ralph Bellamy as the 
~uper-dull man she loves and Cary (;rant as her editor-boss and. ex­husband turn this into the screwhall comedy that ha.~ put this fil~1 on the list ofall-time great~. This one starts at.., p.m. to he followed at 9 
p.m. by Alfred Hitchcock's Psycho. At Notre Dame, it ha.-, become traditional to eagerly wait for the infamous shower scene with janet Leigh and then scream even though we know the outcome. Ps}•cho reigns as one of the most significant tllm artifacts and ~hould r;ot be missed. Both tllms are in Annenberg Aliditorium and are S2. 

~~~orts=L=~=r=t=·e~S============================Fr=id=~=.o~J=to=be=r=t,=t9=s=2==pa=~~t=6
H,· Tbe rJhs!'rt'!'r and !be Associated Press 
Men's Volleyball Club is holding· tryouts for Cross Countrymeets will be held on three successive prospective members Monday, Oct. 4, in the ACC Fieldhouse. The Thursdays, beginning October 7. The two-and-a-half mile races will 
• BU1J •

club is looking for players with high school or USVBA experience. In be run on the golf course. Team or insurance forms must be turned 
• 'J •

addition, there is a mandatory meeting for all former club members in to the NVA office before October 7. The races will start and tin ish on Thursday night at 7:30 in Room 1 S of Sorin Hall. All former at the second tree, where racers arc asked to gather by -i: IS p.m. the players unable to attend are asked to contact Clark Gibson at 8448. 
day ofeach race. -Tbe Observer -The Observer 
:Dbsener: 

The Ultimate Frisbeeclub has its first match at Val­ND's Women Cross-Country team wm com­
: G'lassijieds:

paraiso University at 11:30 a.m. Those interested in playing with the pete this afternoon in an invitational meet at Manchester College.
• 
club should call 1636 or 287-S20S. -The Observer Tbe Observer 
• 
The Observer wtll accept classtfteds Mon­day through Fnday. 10 am to 4 30 p.m. However. classtlieds to appear tn the next tssue rnust be recetved by 3 p.m. the business day pnor to tnsertton All ctass1fteds must be prepatd 
etther tn person or through the matl . 

Classifieds 
.__No_T_Ic_Es__,j 
APEX ROCKS Senior Bar Saturday night 

IS YOUR HAIR GETTING IN THE WAY OF YOUR STUDIES??
_r 
CALL MICHOLE FOR A HAIRCUT TODAY! . ONLY $4 FOR GUYS AND $6 FOR GIRLS BEST TO CALL AFTER 3 AT 7850 
WORD PROCESSING SYSTEM $2995 64K Mlcrocomputer,letter quality pnnter. word processing software, CP/M, Basic. Call277-7720 
NEED A RIDE TO NEW YORK CITY over fall break--will pay call G1na 6553 
Surplus jeeps, cars and trucks available "Aany sell for under $200 Call312-742-1143, ext. 7316 for lnforma­!IOn on how to purchase 
LOGAN REG This Sat., Oct 2. w111 be FARM TRIP REC. II beg1ns at 
10:00 and ends at3:00 PM Lunch w1ll be provided PLEASE ATTEND!! 
HERPES FACTS booklet $2 Box ~682, So Bend. IN 46634 
NEED A RIDE TO BUFFALO OVER FALL BREAK--WILL PAY CALL ROB •l721 
WANTED 

RIDE NEEDED TO THE NEW YORK ClTY FOR OCTOBER BREAK----WILL LEAVE WHENEVER AND WILL SHARE THE USUAL CALL CHRIS AT x3510 OR x8573 ANYTIME 
RIDE NEEDED TO WASHINGTON DC-­FOR OCTOBER BREAK CALL BREN­DAN I>NYTIME--WILL SHARE THE USUAL---7997 
IVANTED· MIAMI GAS Call 287-3538 
\IANTED: Responsible person 10 pick up· ptofess1onal couple·s children from school3days/week, superv1se play; appx 10 hrs/wk; 5/hro(l. gas; car reqwed. 234-4620 even1ngs. 
II'EED RIDE TO LITTLE ROCK OR MEMPHIS for October Break. Can leave as early as Wed. nrght W1ll share dnvmg. usual. Call Greg 234-2456 
Need nde to Jersey Shore, near Deal or Monmouth County area For October break I can leave on Toursday. Oct 21 P'oease call 4624. 
-STUDENT REP NI;'EDED to promote our annual Spnng Break tnps to Flonda and our W1nter Sk1 T nps. Reps rece1ve Free Trips. Call or wnte: Coastal TourS Inc. P.O Box 68. Oak Forest, IL 60452 No IS (312)535-3212 
Need JUST ONE Stud MIAMI TIK Call Steve8670 
Need nde to Dayton or Cinc1nnati Oct. 8 Cla~re 284-4379 
FOR RENT 
I 

Furn1shed home 2 blocks from campus also country house 10 mms. from N.D. Call277-3604 or 288-0955 
CABINS FOR RENT -45 minutes from Notre Dame 616-424-5817. 
2 BEDROOMS 280 UN FUR 320 FUR ON PORTAGE CALL 234-8918 

FURNISHED 5 ROOM APT-3 FRIEND­LY FEMALES, NEED 4TH. RENT NOW-XMAS. CALL LIZ X4263 
WANTED: FEMALE ROOMMATE for 
N.D. Apts thru X-mas. $90/mth. x1813 
TWO APTS 1n one house for rent: each has LA, KT, BR: front PQrch; 165/175 (OR 320 for whole house) & utilities; 718 E. Colfax; 234-4620 evenings. 
ILOST/FOUND \ 
LOST: One black lizard sk1n founla1n pen. lost in the Library or outs1de of 1t. Pen has ~reat sentimental value Please help me 1n th1s maner. Call Rob at3479Jf you have seen 1t. 
Lost. Pair of gold w1re rim glasses on Thursday, 9/23, between the Grano and Hayes-Healy Reward Call Bob 282-1857 

LOST: KODAK INSTAMATIC CAMERA Lost at Mich1gan Game-a1sle 32-33 lnl!tals are on 11: M V.s Please Call: 284­5443. 
LOST; PINK PLAID UMBRELLA OF 
GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE WOODEN HANDLE AND LEATHER CARRYING STRAP CALL MOAT 4076 PLEASE!!!! 
LOST: ID bracelet of great sentimental value. engraved w1th Bridget If found please call 232-5208. 
Re Lost Umbrella, 
I screwed up!!! If you 
have found a pink pla1d 
umbrella, call me at 

4670' (ask for Mo) 
P S. No. I'm not a lrosh. JUSt 
a atrhead 
FOUND: Calculator on 9/30 Call Janet 4571 and 1denl1fy 
LOST· Pa~r of ladles glasses. plastic brown frames With t1nt of apnea! Please caii239-'Y164 (Kathy). 
FOR SALE 
WORD PROCESSING SYSTEM. $2995. 64K M1orocomputer. leiter quality pnnter. word process1ng software, CP/M, Bas1c Call 277-7720 
USED BOOKS Bough!. Sold. Searched ERASMUS. BOOKS Tues-Sun. 12-6. 1027 E Wayne. One Block South ol Eddy­Jefferson Intersection 
WHO TIX FOR SALE good seats both niles 1n Chi 287-9342 or 272-9321"$-o 
FOR SALE: 2 Oak desks; 50 lypewnter & 60 office If Interested please call 289-5375 
TICKETS 
need 2 GA·s for ARIZONA game call Lauren (smc) 5072 
HEY all you crazy w1ld people out there !! We need Tickets agd Will pay you alllhe money we have for 2 Penn St GA's ana2 Miami GA's Make two really sweet g1rls an offer. you wont be sorry! call very nch cindy or much well to do kat1e ai2948NOW 
Yo!\ need 4 t1ckets tor Penn State Bruno and the rest the Mob from Ph1lly Will do me 1n 1f I don t gellhem · Monet IS no problem Call Fran 4385 
Need 2 G A s to the Penn Stale Game can rade. up to 4 G. A s for the M1am1 game Call 712-755-3156 day or 3277 
Need 2 or more GA tlx to any home game esp. MIAMI B1g buck$$ Maureen 5097 (SMC) 
THERE ONCE WASAGIRLFROM N.D. WHOSE PHONE WAS 7983 SHE NEEDED GA'S SO HELL WOULDN'T RAISE FOR THE GAME VERSUS MIAMI·EE (had to make it rhyme, you know-­Diane WILL pay b1g bucks, the parental units are very wealthy!) 
WILL PAY BIG MONEY FOR 4 PENN STATE GA TIX. CALL312·565-5959 COLLECT AND ASK FOR STEVE LONGLEY. 
I truly need 4 M1am1 and Arizona GA tix for 0 Ch1cago area Chnst1an Brothers and U.S. Navy personnel. If you can help out this poor soul and save him from eternal damnat1on call John at 1580 Need M1am1 and PQnn Sttrx b1g lime. Call 1627 
FOR SALE PLENTY 'MIAMI TIX! BEST OFFER CALL x1535 
PLEASE HELP ME I desperately need up to 4 GAs for the M1am1 game Will pay$$ Call Debbte at 284-4311 
Need 4 GA s and 2 students for An zona. 
Call SMC 4451 
I NEED 2 MIAMI GAS PLEASE CALL TRACY X8009 
Needed: M1am1 T1x 
Call B1ll at8922 
NEED!!! One. two. three M1am1 GAs. Parents com1ng long way for frst ND game Please Call Ray at 1177 
Need mega-bad JUSt ONE ARIZ ticket for MoM (f~rst ND game srnce 1961) Call Conrrte at 4311 
Needed 2 T1x to Penn State 
$$$Bob-1723 
HELP! GIRLFRIEND WILL HAVE MY HEAD IF I DON T GET 5 MIAMI TIX! JEFF 2257 
I Will pay 100$ for lour M1am1 GAs or two GA s and two student ticket Call George at 8684 
Need 4 M1am1 GA s Call 1225 
I NEED MICHIGAN TICKETS1 
DAVE 1773 
Need 3 or 4 GAs for 
ARIZONA game Please 
call Tom-3360 
HELP I MY BROTHERS ;·<EED 2 TIX FOR THEN D -ARIZONA GAME WILL PAY BIG BUCKS CALL JOHN AT 8219 555 
5555555 
HELP!! I NEED 1 OR 2 TICKETS FOR MIAMI STUDENT OR GAS PLEASE CALL TONY AT 8872 
W1ll trade 1 An ibna GA for either 1 M1am1 GA or studenllicket Call Dave at 1380 
Want: 2 or 4 lix lor any home football game W1ll1ng Ia pay lhe gorng rate Please call collect. (312) 377-9117 
HELP Fam1ly mak1ng sojourn from Wesl Virg1n1a hills to South Bend Need two M1am1 student or G·A tlx so I can 1ntroduce them to football! Call Scott at6931 
WANTED: 2 M1am1 GAs CALl· Vrnce· x3155 
Need 1 STU TICK and 2 GA s for MIAMI 
PLEASE HELP!! CALL 289-9304 
Needed: 2 Penn St GAs & 2 St TX Mark 4258 
NEED 2 MIA~ I GAS NAME YOUR PRICE. CALL 3242 
Trade-I have 2 G A M1am1-need 2 G.A. Penn· State-call Glenn-3248 
HELP! MARCHING BAND MEMBER NEEDS TWO MIAMI TICKETS FOR FAMILY 
WANTED. 4 GAs lor Penn State game. Will pay b1g bucks. Call collect. Steve Longley at312-565-5959. ext 2081 
NEED.FOUR MIAMI GA TIXS WILL PAY BIG BUCKS CALL MIKE 8265 
Desperately needed 2 MIAMI GAs wtll pay mega$$ Call Randy 7982 
NEED ONLY ONE GA Ia MIAMI game' GOOD $$! Dave 8296 
DE SPERA TEL Y NEED FOUR TIX TO ARIZ GAME GA OR STUD PLEASE CALL-4281!1 
HELP' Fam1ly and fnends want Ia see awesome lnsh. Need 2 GAs tor Antona and 1 Stud for Penn Sl Call Kevtn at 1441 
MSU GA. MIAMI OR ARIZONA SUDENT TIX TO SELL OR TRADE FOR PENN STATE TIX WANDA 7770 
NEED MIAMI TIX call Tom 1173$$ 
Need 1 Miam1 T1c AI 1595 
HELP!! MIAMI GAs DESPERATELY NEEDED (3) $$$CALL KEVIN at1580 
FOR SALE: 1 M1ch. Slate GA IIC Call Joan at2244 I HAVE TWO STUDENT TICKETS FOR MIAMI!! I need 3 GAs for the same game Will trade for them and make up the dif­ference 1n cash Th1s may be your last chance to get student 11x Call Jim at x1073 

NEED TWO TICKETS FOR MIAMI.G A OR STUDENT;CALL 1247,ASK FOR PATORJ PAULGETTY 
INEED TICKETS FOR THE MIAMI GAME. CALL 277-1709 5555St'o 
IRATE PARENTS AND SISTER DEMAND MIAMI TIX. 2 GA AND 1 STU NEEDED CALL SUSAN AT 284-5526 
NEED 2 PENN STATE GAS, CALL JOHN A 1751 
need:2 M1am1 GAs for Parents Will Pay Top Dollar Call Scott at1735 
NEED 2 PENN ST GAS OR STUDENT TIX AM WILLING TO TRADE 2'1sMIAMI GAS. BUY PENN ST TIX. OR SELL MIAMI TIX IF CAN OBTAIN 2 PENN ST TIX HELP MY FAMILY VISIT ME ON THE WEEKEND OF MY BIRTHDAY CALL GARY AT 1152 
FOR SALE 2 ARIZONA STUDENT TIX 35 DOLLARS OR BEST OFFER CALL SCOTTII60 
PENN STATE TICKETS needed for parents Call 4624 
NEED 2-4 GAs M1am1 KEN 1722 
NEED 2 MIAMI STUDENT TICKETS! CALL MICHELLE 3793 
NEED 1 student M1am1 T1cket call Paul 6829 
For sale M1ch St G A cheap 4602 
WANTED GAs lor PENN STATE and PITT CALL BILL-6768 
1 de DESPERATELY NEED GAs FOR MIAMI SUE 277-3759 
PLEASE SELL US 2 GAs FOR MIAMI! WILL PAY$$$$' Call Tern at277-4820or Nad1ne at 1302 
HELP! I need 2 M1am1 GAs Laura 4432 
Mom and Dad send lhe~r regrets but they can I make 11 to M1am1 So now I m stuck With two GAs Won t you please help me out? Call C J at 1975 
TRADE·! HAVE 4 MIAMI GAs-WILL TRADE FOR 4 ARIZONA GAs CALL x3669 
., 
NEED 3 MIAMI GAs CALL RICH AT 277­1650 EVENINGS 
HELP' MARCHING BAND MEMBER NEEDS TWO MIAMI TIX FOR FAMILY CALL RON AT 3403 
I NEED MIAMI GAs!!! DAVE 1773 
Need 2 GAs lor M1am1 game Call Randy al3349 
I need Mlam111x 3 stud. 2 G A Please call Joe 8269 
I HAVE 2 MIAMI GAs WILL TRADE THEM FOR 2 PENN ST GAs CAN MAKE UP ANY DIFFERENCE WITH$$ 
" CALL MIKE al1978 
PERSONALS 
APEX ROCKS Senior Bar Saturday night 
MARKETING CLUB TICKET RAFFLE 2 GAS FOR MIAMI AND ARIZONA GAMES CHANCES 3/$1 FOR MARKETING CLUB MEMBERS AND 2/$1 FOR OTHERS 
TO  ENTER  CONTACT  MATT  WES­ 
TOVER (277­ 4305)  
TIM  THIRY  11651),  MARGARET  

MCCARTHY (2909). OR JIM 0 HARA (3275). DRAWING HELD THE WEDNESDAY BEFORE EACH GAME0$o 
Desperate for 2 Penn St. GAsl Good$$$ Call Tom, 1417 
OKTOBERFEST 

THURS THE 7TH AT SMC 
Rollerskate on campus!!! 3 hrs. $3 50 at Angela 4· 7 p m Sound of Mus1c 7 p.m. Carrol Hall (also shown Oct 6) Beer Garden'!' 8-11.30 p.m Featunng the No Problem Band (For under 21· Mustc, load, good company) 
CHRIS Wanna stay a Virgm? Better QUit dnnk n!!! CHAPIN 
BOB, GOOD LUCK ON THE LSAT S ILL MISS YOU AT M S U LOVE. PARTNER 
NANCY! How could I be so 1ncons1derate It was a total screw-up for me to forget to call and expla1n what happened Can a gorgeous volleyball star from the salty state of Utah ever forg1ve a plead1ng ltah .an Jwm Jer~r~·~(iivc me one more chance!!! 
A REPE:-ITIN<i ~IA~ORITE 
My Dearest B-Kel. I have learned more about the true mean1ng of hfe from you. then I would ever have thought poss1ble 1n such a short penod of ttme We have grown and stuck together through I he hard limes as well as the great, great ones I sure am glad that 
you are you, and I am I. be-caccause 1f 
you weren t you and I wasn t me-we wouldn I be us !I! Thank you for be1ng lhe fantastic person that you are. And, also lhank you lor lhe most wonderful 12 months ot my 11te!!! 
I LOVE YOU YOURB-NEL 
JOANNE DOES 4N REGINA ROCK THE 
GUYS  FROM  KEENAN  WANT  TO  
KNOW  
AWESOME  

SENIOR Class T-SHIRTS on sale soon 2 colors to choo~e tram..don·! be left Wllh­out1 Further deta1ls r:om1ng 
TO KEN. MY FAVORITE FUTURE LAWYER ACE THE LSAT S' LOVE.SUSAN 
HELP' EMERGENCY' My relatives are expeclmg me lor Mtch Si game, but I have no Iran spa Will gladly help w1th ex­penses It you haven t done your good deed lor today. call i3eorge 1228 
DEAR DAN, 
SORRY YOU DIDN'T LIKE THE TOWNSHEND ALBUM; DID YOU GIVE THAT ONE AWAY, TOO? 
AN ADMIRER 
GUMBY LIVES'!I GUM BY LIVES!!! 
Amenca s Team Does 1t Aga1n Go Get em. Braves! May LA Crumble 1nto the Blue Pac1hc' 
Qwlly Boy. you re a score & 1. St1ll try1ng to have some fun Last year you came home falling; This year w1ll you be Sprawling? Go1ng bald a~d get11ng fal. Pusey Centrals where you re at But you re the best we II ever meet. so HAPPY B-DAY. Charcoal Pete 
-TheF Us 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT JOB BANK pos1t1ons ava1lal?le as dnver and clerk Contact Dorothy DeClerck at Wygant Floral Co . 327 L1ncoln Way West 232­3354 
Congrats to our little BUFFY on becom1ng a REAL nurse! Love you. The Roomaes 
NOWf BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS FROM SAINT MARY'S! 
Yes. The Observer now can accept your SMC classtfleds from the Sam! Mary s off1ce located rn the basement ol Regma North. across from the Blue Mantle Room Hours are from 1'2to 3 p m Monday through Thursday 
SO DON T DELAY! 
Happy Birthday VICKY VICTIM who always comes 1n when the lights are d1m, but even Wilh a SCHNAG, her walk IS a mere zag-zag, How she surv1ves we don t know, w1th her d1et of tnscu1ts and brewsk1 flow call her early Sunday morn to make her head scream. and be sure to WISh her a helluva Happy 
E1ghteen!l ' (SMC-4008) 
Luv. Col & Beth1e 
P S Hey you. Got a clue? 
Nurse Thompson-CongratulatiOns on your capp1ng' Love ya.BM (S&M) 
UNITED WAY UNITED WAY SEPT 26-o OCT.3 GIVE YOUR FAIR SHARE S2 00 
UNITED WAY THANKS TO YOU IT WORKS PLEASE GIVE YOUR FAIR SHARE$200 
What do the following 8111S1s have 1n com­mon? 
The Box Tops T::O. Rot~ng Stones Franlue Val~ Sam and Dave lulu I won I keep you n suspense any lon­ger you can hear hilS by these and at least 15 other acts Sunday on The Top 20 Time Tunnel. as Tim Neely counts down 
the top 20 hilS lor the hrst -of Oc­tober. 1967 Thais at 6 pm Sunday on YOUR radio Slat100. WSND AM 64' 
ATT S.M.C WOMEN. TOMORROW. OCTOBER 2. IS JIM RUDSER S 18TH BIRTHDAY TEACH THE WILDEST FRESHMAN IN DILLON HOW TO HAVE A GOOD TIME STOP BY 218 DILLON OR CALL x1687 LETS SEE IF HE ESCAPES SECURITY THIS WEEKEND!I• 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY Jll\oll!! HAVE A GOOD ONEil LOVE. LISA AND MOIRA P s: WHERE IS OUR INVITATION??? 
Kelly. Congratulations on your cappiOQ!! I m really proud of you. and lm sure you II be an excellent nurse 
Love atways. Nancy 
HeyFIIZ, Ill bet you re the only SMCer wrth a cap who sa PISSA!! Good luG!< at the hospll?' 
Love. F1tZ 
APEX ROCKS 
Senior Bar Sat..daynight 
Kathy & Matty, Sitt~n an a bush Matty reaches over and touches her tush First comes a sma1c: then comes a smde Next thmg you know they,re walk1ng down the aste One year later S your sun a tramp• HAPPY A Love M 
BILLY G Good LUCk on the LSAT I II be thanking about you! 
Ta L1sa & Enn­our favorite ra & nn Best of luck tomorrow! We re countrng on you because you never know when we Hneed a good lawyer 
love thewlldones Anne Mane. Katht. and Beth 
GOOD LUCK ON SAT CARRIE. COL­LEEN. AND ELLEN• 
Marty. 
hope you are sunmnng "' sp!le of me be a good httle brOiher Manlyn. your btg SISler 
Nancy and Ray. Thanks lor the great weekend Loolung forward to see.ng you a!Jalfl 
from above 
GUESS WHAT????? Elame CAN talk!!!!!!~'! 221 &222G 
Jean. OLJCHIII You know lean rbelleve1twhen Ihear that you won I see THE FLASHMAN WHO WORE PAJAMAS P S SOMEBODY WANTS ME. BABY · 
SENIORS!!I SENIORSI!I SENIORS!!I Happyliotwllllhe-.;oc, TODAY. Bring a 2110,-u..n NO ID. See you all U...l 
SENIORSIll SENIORSIII SENIORSIll Happy Hotwllllhe -.;oc, TODAY. Bring a 211D,-U.... NO 10. Seeyouall-1 
connectlcul dub bus lor oct _, signupa in LaFotl-lobbyT-. 10/5 at 7·30pm Sloppong m NYC.Fawheld.Harllord Cosl80 buc.l<s lor info c:.ll 81311 



The Observer Friday, October 1, 1982-page 17 
• • • Volleyball 


continuedfrom page 20 
They became the Irish's first shutout victim of the year. 
They seemed mesmerized by everything Notre Dame did. Karen Bauters was especially successful as she began her service at 2-0 and served out the game. 
The second game started out much like the first as the Irish jumped out to a 7-1 lead, including Bauters' fourteenth and fifteenth consecutive points. 
Suddenly, however, thr momen­tum swung in St. Francis' favor. They began returning everything Notre Dame hit at them and took ad­vantage of poor blocking by the Irish. 
It did not take them long to catch up. Caught by surprise, Notre Dame began making coqK· mi-rak<'~. final­
"Jackie Pagley also played well again," he added. "As usual she didn't make many mental errors and

...Baseball she didn't try to overhit the ball." Israel, who has played very 
continuedfrom page 20 
Royals' game against the A's last night in the start of a four-game series at Kansas City, the Angels will carry a lead of two or three games over the Royals starting the final three games ofthe regular season. 
"All this means," said Mauch after a bitter 6-5 loss to the Royals Wed­nesday night, "is we have a little more work to do." The Angels held a 5-2 lead before Kansas City came back to win in the late innings. 
"The race should be over but that's baseball," Angels designated hitter Don Baylor said after Wednes­day night's game, in which fle hit his 24th homer, producing two runs. "Now we've got to go home and do what any club does at home, win two out of three." 
The Angels have won two of three 
of their previous home field games 
against Texas but over the season 
are a bit short of that pace, winning 
49 at home and losing 29. 
In Wednesday night's loss, Califor­nia also had a home run from Reggie Jackson, his 37th. 
Jackson said concerning losing 
two straight to the Royals, "Right 
now, we're more disappointed than 
down ... But I don't like the idea of 
flying home and hearing people say, 
'You'll get them tomorrow. You'll 
get them tomorrow.' I'm 36. I don't 
want to hear about tomorrow." 
In the Rangers' series, the Angels 
have the top of their pitching rota­
tion ready, if all are needed. Geotl' 
Zahn, 1'-H. will hurl tonight against 
the Rangers' Charlie Hough, who 
shut out California in a game in 
Texas last Sunday. 
Ken Forsch. 13-11, would pitch Saturday afternoon and Tommy John. 1-t 12, would hurl for the An­gels .~un av afternoon if the pennant isn·l ci•. JChed h\· then. Hoth would be held hack h.>r the American Leag te playotfs if the Angels wrap thinhs up tonight or Saturday. 
BOSTON (AP) -Jim Rice and Carl Yastrzemski combined for seven hits, and rookie Wade Boggs drove in three runs last night, as the Boston Red Sox dtlayed Mil­waukee's pennant express with a 9-4 victory over the Brewers. 
Right-hander Dennis Eckersley, 13-13, blanked the Brewers for seven innings before the Milwaukee bombers shelled him in the eighth, when Paul Molitor and Cecil Cooper hit two-run homers, their 19th and 31st respectively. 
Boh Stanley replaced Eckersley with none out in the eighth and went on to set an American League record for most innings pitched in a season for a reliever with 16H 1-3 in­nings. The new standard breaks Bill sparingly this year, made a major Campbell's mark of 167 2-3 for Min­contribution in her first start. nesota in 1976. "Robin needs to work on her pas­
Milwaukee starter Jim Slaton, 10-sing, but she hit the ball very well," 6, lasted less than four innings in said Vanslager. taking the Joss. The AL east-leading The victories improve the Irish Brewers started the day four games record this year to 10-3. ahead ofsecond-place Baltimore. There will not be much rest for 
The Red Sox tied a major league the team, however, as they play in record by grounding into their the Saint Mary's Invitational on 170th double play of t~e season, Saturday. The first match will begin tying the 1950 Philadelphia Ath­at 10:00 a.m. in the Angela Athletic letics. Facility. 
r.2~!"~f!:L 
SZECHUAN -CAIVTDNESE-AMER/t:AN 
CHUCK WHITE 
* *
At The Piano Bar 
See Chuck Enr~ Tues. thru Sat. 
8:011 p.m.-1 :00 a.m.....Enjo) Life! 

• Dancing• Drinks• Dinger 
• Hospitalijy•Reasooabk Prices 

Lunch Special $1.99 to $4.25 
Dinner Specials: Seafood Platter $3.95 Pork Fried Rice $3.00 Chicken Ohowmein $3.50 
"The Best Chinese Food l'uu 've Ever Had" 
HOURS: OPEN 7 DAYS Mon·Thur 11:30a.m·10:00pm A WEEK 

cri. & Sat. 11:30 a.m.-11 :00 p.m. Sun. & Holidays 4 p.m.-9:00p.m. 
130 DIXIE HWY. SOUTH SOUTH BENO(Roseland) 

FREE POSTERS 
20 different brands of keg beer available including imports 
Draft Trucks Tapping Equipment Keg Coolers Cups and Ice Tubs 

Notre Dame's field hockey team mounts an offensive threat at Houghton College, who eventually defeated the irish, 2-1. See Tom Antonini's story on page 18. (Photo by Scott Bower) 
• ~ 
The Juggler
• • 
Now Accepting 

undergraduate works of Poetry Fiction Prose Criticism • Photography Graphics for consideration for publication 
• 

All works should be submitted to the 
Juggler mailbox 3090'Shag Deadline: October 1 
• 

ly dropping its first game since Sep­tember 14. 
Nevertheless, the momentum swung once again in the third game as the Irish moved out to a good lead and would not let the Cougars make a comeback. 
The fourth game was a classic ex­ample of how important emotions are in volleyball. 
Riding the momentum of their victory, the Irish jumped out to a 6-0 lead. Then the Cougars gained momentum and took control of the match. They served for the game, but failed. 
This swung the momentum back to the Irish who made a tremendous comeback. The teams traded chances to win, with Notre Dame finally winning the game and match. 
"(St. Francis') defense was very good," said Anderson. "They ad­justed their defense to where we were hitting." 
"Our girls also stopped passing the ball," added Coach Sandy Vanslager. "The passing was un­believably terrible. 
"Some of the sets weren't smart. They took chances when they shouldn't have. They didn't go with the sure hit." 
There were some good points to the evening, however. The coaches agreed that the fact that the team didn't fall apart completely when the momentum went against them showed some improvement psycho­logically. 
The coaches were also pleased 
with the play of Bauters, Jackie 
Pagley, and Robin Israel. 
"Karen played consistently the 
whole evening," said Anderson of 
the team's most effective scorer. 


---... 
The Observer Friday, October 1, 1982 -page 18

I I 
I 
I 
;;., 
f 
I 
-
Robin Israel ofNotre Dame's volleyball team dives for a return as the Irish defeated Bethel and St. Francis Colleges. See Mike Sul­livan's story on page 20. (Photo by Scott Bower) 
CORBY'S 

"WEEKEND" 
~...__,_.,._.._....... frj HAPPY HOUR 1-10 ..........-,...~~,~~~~~~1~.~~·~·-·~
Saturday 10:00 am-"Biood!J Mar!J Part!J" 
11:00 am-"Pre-game Warmups" (shots $1.oo) 


11:00 noon-NOTRE DAME os MICHIGAN STATE 
DRAFT BEER 1/$1.00 
SAUSAGE SANDWICHES .so~ 
9:00pm -3:00am VICTORY CHEBRATION 

GO IRISH! BEAT MICHIGAN ST. 
decjsjons,
deCISIODS,
decisions 
Tri-Captain Jay 

Schw-artz's dedication leads team 
By SAM SHERRILL 
Sports Writer 

Although the Notre Dame soccer team got off to a somewhat shaky start this season, things seem to be looking up now for the squad as they head into · several big matches against regional competition. 
One of the key factors in the team's holding together through this 
period  has  been  the  composed  
leadership  of  tri-captain  Jay  
Schwartz.  

One quality about Schwartz which immediately comes through is his dedication to the soccer program. "This year, whenever soc­cer calls," he said, "I drop what I'm doing and go." 
Schwartz is no stranger to prominence on the soccer field. As a senior at Blanchet High School in Seattle, he led his team to the Metro AAA title and a championship in their district. 
Since coming to Notre Dame, Schwartz has been a regular in mid­field, playing in 58 games over three years. He has won monograms all three years. 
As with all the players, though, soccer is not the only thing in Schwartz's life. "I came here for the academics," he said, "but I tried out and was lucky enough to make var­sity freshman year. I've always liked soccer, and after graduation I'll probably coach and referee. But I don't think about going professional or anything. I just want to get a job and work." 
Many players might not he able to handle the pressure of being a cap­tain. But to Schwartz, it's a challenge. "Sure, it adds pressure. You have to perform and lead hy your actions. It's also your responsibility to sort of push the guys, hut not get carried away with it. We're all still friends out there." 
This year, Schwartz has taken on the role of a creative midfielder, starting the scoring chances rather than finishing them. "My first thought has always been to pass the hall, which I probably do too much. I 
Here's how to make a good one... and still keep your options open. 
Right now, you're faced with a host of interesting options. But you're afraid you'll have to toss most of them aside to make that Final, Chiseled-in-Stone Career Decision. 
Not if you join Alexander Grant. We mav be the ideal non-limiting decision for the brill1ant and ambitious businessperson. 
Here's why j'lle say that. 
We're one of the world's largest public accounting firms. Yet most of our 40,000 clients are moderate in size. The result: our professionals get to see the entire inner workings of those diverse clients--not just the operations of a single division, department or branch. With such a banquet of opportunities, you can keep right on growing and learning until you settle 1nto the role that's perfect for you. And we'll match your ascendmg responsibilities with the appropriate authority, every step of the way. 
We can talk more about your options when we get together. But let's make sure we get together. That ought to be the simplest decision you'll have to make all year. 
Accounting majors can learn more about our career opportunities when our representative will be on campus at the Placement Office on October 4th, 5th, and 6th. 
Director of National Recruitment 

Prudential Plaza, 39th Floor Chicago, Illinois 60601 CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCC!LJ~T-'I'oTS (312) 856-0001 
Alexander Grant 
. -...,.,....., ......... 

have a pretty good shot, so I should use it more. 
"My biggest strength would probably he my experience. I know the game. Also, though I'm not-a great skilled player, I think I do a lot of things pretty well. The toughest thing is maintaining concentration, with all the different pressures, academic and so forth. 
"What's hurt us this year is losing Mike Sullivan (center halfback). We basically had to start over and look for the right mix. But I think we may have found that mix now. 
"Every game is a must win situa­tion. But I think we can go un­defeated the rest of the way; I know we can. It starts with Dayton tonight. There would he nothing better than to have a hig crowd there for that game." 
Perhaps tonight will he the spark for the Irish. With leaders like Jay Schwartz, the team is hound to succeed. 

Irish Invitational Race starts this afternoon 
By NAT RICH last week's, we should he able to do !.ports Writer that." He was refering to last week's 
The nation's oldest and largest in­second place finish to Marquette in tercollegiate cross country race the National Catholic Cross Country takes place this afternoon, and Notre· Meet. In that race, four Irish runners Dame will he hosting it. Forty-nine finished with the fastest times of teams with over three hundred and their lives. t1fty runners open an exciting after­As has been the case all season, noon of competition at 2:00 on the Marc Wozniak, Tim Bartrand, Tim golfcourse. Cannon, and Andy Dillon will he 
The eighteen most competitive regarded as runners who should car­teams, including Notre Dame, open ry most of the weight for :'llotre the Notre Dame Invitational with Dame. Jim Tyler. who ran his best the first race. Asecond tace, at ~:00, time last week, has been steadily includes the other thirty-one teams. improving and may break into that The t1rst division includes such front four at any time. cross country powerhouses as 
Piane explained, "we've had con­Purdue and Michigan. Also compet· sistently solid performances so far ing is defending champion Illinois this season and we'd like to maintain 

State, led by last year's meet. winner, it for the rest of the year. This meet Bill Shuey, who covered the five will he a good test." 
mile course in 24:09. 
Irish coacli Joe Piane admits that A good test it definitely will he, the competition will he intense. He and also a good chance to see some offered,"It's hy far the toughest field excellent runners. The crowd is ex­we've faced this year. Ifwe can finish pected to be the largest ofthe season in the top t1ve I'll he satisfied. I think and it will be the last chance for local that if our times are comparable to fans to see the Irish at home. 
NDfield hockey teatn drops second straight 
By TOM ANTONINI 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame field hockey team lost only its second game ofthe season yesterday at Alumni Field. The Irish were defeated 2-1 in a hard fought game with Houghton College of New York. It was the second year in a row that Notre Dame has lost to Houghton by a 2-1 score. 
Houghton got off to a quick start, scoring its first goal just six minutes into the game. They dominated play for most of the first half and limited the Irish offense to mostly long range shots. However, although out­shot hy the visitors Notre Dame was only down 1-0 at half 
The Irish played much better in the second half and controlled pos­session most of the time. After three shots just missed for N.D., Claire Henry t1nally tied it up at the 20­minute mark of the second half It was Henry's I';th goal of the season, a high for the team. 
It looked as though the Irish would pull it out, but Houghton came right hack just five minutes later to score what proved to be the winning goal. Down 2-1, Notre Dame kept the pressure on until the very end, but failed to capitalize on three corner shots in the last three minutes of the game. 
Last year, the Irish travelled to New York, only to lose to Houghton in the last minute of a highly emo­tional game. N.D. coach Jan Bishop hoped that the loss would be in­centive enough to insure a victory in this year's game. She voiced her op­timism priof to the game, "When they won last year, you would have thought they had just won the Na­tional Championship. We hope we can perform well, we're expecting a clean victory." However, the Irish will have to wait at least another year for their revenge. 
Houghton improved its record to ';-2 with the victory. Notre Dame's record is still impressive at H-2 despite the loss. 

--cccccccccccccccccccccccccccc 
Announcing 
The Newest Location of the 


1835 Lincolnway East, South Bend Hickory Smoked Ribs Deliciously thick Pizza Fried Chicken BEER 8t WINE Now two locations to serve you: 1835 Lincolnway East St. Rd. 23 8c Bittersweet South Bend, 288-8240 Granger 277-3143 
~=============================! 
~TheC>bserver========================================= 
Weekend 
Friday, October 1, 1982 -page 19 

Doonesbury 

I L/1<& THAT 1</N/} OF /RJ<&V­


ACROSS 23 Broadway Edwardian sign et al. 24 Thatched 
5 Winglike 25 Nub 
9 Like some 27 Household packages: women abbr. 28 Jewelry: sl. 
12 Easter 29 Time peri· time ods: abbr. 
13 Printing 31 Tabu machine, 32 Culture for short medium 
14 -de soie 33 30s dance 
15 Wordsol tune understand-37 Angers ing 38 Rogers or 
16 Hep Cohn 17 Merits 39 Knightly 19 Launching title · 
spot 40 Periodical, 22 French lor short friend 41 Gender 

The Daily Crossword 
© 1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 10/1/82 All Rigt:lts Reserved 


Garry Trudeau 

Jeb Cashin 

Photius 

42 "-Bulba" 14 Le Moko 46 "-of et al. 
Honey" 18 Hebrew 48 -bien feast 51 Fruit 20 Prefix 
drink lor vert 52 Beaten to orduce 
the punch 21 Capra and 55 Window Sinatra 56 Bumpkin 26 Breads 57 Affected 27 Address to 
manner an unknown 58 New York guy 
college 30 Hide 59 Guinness. 31 Lad 60 Arrow 32 Emanation 
poison 33 Choral 61 Yoko-work 62 Animal 34 Denial 
skin 35 Smoked 63 Beatty and salmon Rorem 36 Japanese 
word part DOWN lor skill Biblical 37 Adult prophet insect 
2 Start 41 Stone again monument 3 Blood 43 Plunder 
deficiency 44 Worshiped 4 -lively! 45 Feels 5 Solitary 47 Office 6 Jargon aide 7 Chekhov 48 Land's end. 8 Shelter in olden 9 Norman times 
Vincent-49 Dissenter 10 Pattern 50 Boot out 11 Special 53 Ensnare 
headgear 54 Principal 
~-----------------------------------------------------------------L---------------------------J 
.................................................................................... 
~ The Notre Dome Student Union Presents The Honotuoble Solly Oppenheim MP 
Member ol Prime Minister Thatchers tohinet 
Member ol Porlioment since 1970 Keceot Minister to the US 
on The Lessons of the Folklond Islands 
ond 

Current Government Policy in Great Britain Mondny 8:00pm October·4 Library Auditorium ········•··•·······························•···•·········•·····················•···• 

Campus 
•2 
p.m. -Cross Country, Notre Dame Invita­tional, Burke Golf Course 

• 
3: I 5 p.m. -Workshop, "Grassroots Industrial Policy", Thomas Cochran, 331 O'Shaugnessy Hall 

• 
3:30 p.m. -Philosophy Colloquium, "Goods and Evils", Prof. Jorge Garcia, Notre Dame, Library Lounge 

• 
5: I 5 -Mass and Supper, Bulla Shed, Sponsored by Campus Ministry 

•6:45 
-Rosary Devotions, Grotto 

•7, 
9, and II p.m. -Film, "Neighbors", Engineer­ing Auditorium, Sponsored by Eta Kappa Nu, SI. 

•7:30 
p.m. -Friday NightFilm Series, "The Pas­senger", Annenberg Auditorium, S2. 

•8 
p.m. -Soccer, Notre Dame vs. University of 


Dayton, Cartier Field Saturday, Oct. 2 
•8 
a.m. -Test, Law School Admissions Test, Engineering Audirorium 

•9 
a.rp. -Volleyball, Sr. Mary's Invitational, An­gela Athletic Facility 

•10 
a.m. -Stepan Chemistry Hall Dedication Symposium, "Science and our National Life: Uni­versity, Industry, Government", Walter Cronkite, Annenberg Auditorium, Open to the Public 

•12 
p.m. -Football, Notre Dame vs Michigan State, Michigan State 

•I 
p.i:n. -Lecture, "St. Augustine and St. Thomas More: Two Catholic Rhetoricians", Joseph R. Ber­rigan,, University of Georgia, Sponsored by St. Thomas More Society, Galvin Life Sciences Audilorium 

•2:1!)-Lecture,"Thomas 
More: English Leader and ~uropean Statesman" John Geuguen, Univer­sity oflllinois, Galvin Auditorium, Sponsored by St. Thomas More Soeiety, 

•3 
p.m. -Stepan Chemistry Dedication, Memorial Library Auditorium, Open to the Public 

•4 
p.m. -Panel Forum on Liberal Education, Notre Dame faculty and alumni, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 

•6:30 
p.m. -Dinner and Lecture, "The Wit and Wisdom of Thomas More", Prof. Ralf Mcinerny, Faculty Dining Room, South Dining Hall 

•7,9, 
and II p.m. -Film, "Neighbors", Engineer­ing Auditorium, Sponsored by Eta Kappa Nu, S I .00 

•8, 
and 10:15 p.m. -Film, "A Man for all Seasons", Library Auditorium, Sponsored by St. Thomas More Society 

•9 
p.m. -Slide Presentation, "More's Profes­sional and Family Life", Library Lounge, Sponsored by St. Thomas More Society 

Sunday Oct. 3 

•1 
0 a.m. -Mass, Stepan Chemistry Hall Dedica­tion Mass, Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, Stepan Hall, Open to the public 

•I 
p.m. -Stepan Chemistry Hall Dedication Ceromony, In the courtyard ofthe hall 

•6:30 
p.m. -NO/ SMC Sophomore Women Mass and Marshmellow Roast, SMC Clubhouse, Sponsored by SMC Sophomore Class, 

•7 
p.m. -Speech, "Nonviolence", Jim Forest, Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Campus Minis­try and Pax Christi, 


The saga of a
B •
rtan ,, 
6 month old domer. 

-
... 


Friday, October 1, 1982 -page 20 
Soccer team 

Notre Dame entertains Flyers 
ByALGNOZA that the Irish are in -the Mideast -Dame with the latter two scorers Sports Writer the upcoming clash will be very im­being the recipients of some ~lick portant for Notre Dame, who hope passing. 
After Tuesday's 3·1 victory at to get their first shot at post-season "That first goal was a quick one," Loyola of Chicago, the Notre Dame play. COJ11mented Luetkehans, "but the soccer team will be at home tonight other two were a result ofsome very
"It will be a difficult game because 

as they entertain the Flyers from good buildups."
they always consider Notre Dame

Dayton. The Irish are hoping to im­The Irish could probably have 
their biggest game ofthe year," Luet · 

prove upon their 5-3·1 record. blown Loyola right out of the state if
kehans noted. "The last time we

Despite their less than torrid start, they had wanted to, but skipper Rich
played down there, two or three

all hope is not lost for an NCAA Hunter took the opportunity to give
thousand fans showed up. I spent a 

tournament bid, according to Irish many Notre Dame reserves some
half hour after the game signing

tri-captain Mark Luetkehans. playing time. Consequently, the
autographs."

"The bids are handed out Loyola converted a critical regionally," Luetkehans said. "The The Irish will hope to continue defensive error into a meaningless only loss we have so far in the region with the type of play that staked second half goaL is to Ohio St. and the rain may have them to a 3·0 lead at halftime of "In the second half we didn't con­lessened the importance of that Tuesday's game at Loyola. Dave trol the ball," Luetkehans said. "But game." Miles, joey Hohl, and joe Herdegen in the t1rst halfwe burned them pret­
Since Dayton is in the same region were the goal scorers for Notre tv bad." 
· Tuesday night's game was probab­lv douhlv rewarding for the Irish as ... they experienced the oddity of a rain-free ballgame. Friday's game at
ALbaseball roundup ; 
Indiana was delayed a full hour he­cause of rain and lightning and the Wheaton game was highlighted by a
Division races tighten 
pesky downpour. Tonight's game has an H p.m. start­
KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP)-Willie Fred Stanley hit a two-run homer ing time and will be played on the Aikens hit a grand slam homer and a in the third for Oakland, off winner carpet of Cartier Field. The Irish are three-run shot last night to power Paul Splittorff, 10-10, who went six one of the few teams that have an 
the Kansas City Royals past Oakland 
innings for the win. Dwayne Murphy astro-turf playing surface and they1 1-4 and further tighten the hit a two-run shot in the eighth for therefore sport a slight advantage American League West race. Oakland, his 26th. 
over their visiting opponents. Look The victory shaved tlrst-place 
for the Irish to wear down the Flyers 
California's lead to two games with in the second halfbet cause ofthe turf three left to play. The Angels finish and the effect it has on visiting with a three-game series at home ANAHEIM, Calit: (AI') -After players legs. 
against Texas while the Royals com­two straight losses_at Kansas City, After tonight's match, the Irish plete the season at home against when just one victory would have will not have a game until next Oakland given them the American League Friday. With the score tied 2·2 in the fifth, West title, the California Angels had Mike Norris, '7.JJ, walked George a welcome rest from pennant Brett and Hal McRae with two out. pressure yesterday. 
Women's volleyball 
Aikens drilled his I 5th homer, deep The first Angel off day since Sept. 
into the right-field water display. 9 will be followed by a season· 
Notre Datne UJins tournatnent
U.L Washington singled and stole ending three-game series at 
second with one in the seventh, and Anaheim Stadium against the Texas 
By MIKE SULLIVAN However, the difference in talent second game. But sloppy play
Brett walked. Dave Lopes misplayed Rangers. Victories in two of the 
Sports Writer was so great that the scores should allowed Bethel to come back and tie a grounder to load the bases for three games, tonight, Saturday after­
not have been as close as they were. the score at eight. However, MaryJo Aikens, who smashed reliever Bob noon and Sunday afternoon, would 
The Notre Dame women's vol­The second and final match Hensler served seven straight pointsOwchinko's first pitch over the cen­assure the Angels of their second AL 
leyball team expected some easy against St. Francis College began as a to bail out her team. ter field fence. west pennant and the first for 
wins last night when it hosted a four­slaughter, but turned out to be a vi­The last game was no contest as Aikens' seven RBI tied him with Manager Gene Mauch in 23 seasons team tournament, but a combina­cious struggle as it took the Irish the Irish finally put it together and 
Jerry Grote for the club record. 
in the major leagues. tion of poor play and some four games ( 1 5·0, I 1-1 5, 1 5-6, 19-ran away from their helpless op­McRae and Frank White also had The Angels also could back into 
surprisingly tough competltton 17) to win. ponents.solo homers for Kansas City, and the pennant ifKansas City falters in a 
forced the Irish to work hard for The team was without the "The problem was that they knew McRae also drove in his league­four-game series against Oakland. their victories. services of one of its best players, they would win, but didn't know 
leading I 28th RBI with a double in Depending on the outcome of the 
In the opener of the evening, Mary McLaughlin, who missed the how to do it," explained Assistant the third. McRae's homer was his Notre Dame routed Bethel College tournament due to an injury. Her Coach Dan Anderson. "They just
26th. See BASEBALL, page 17
-by scores of 15-6, 15-H, and 15-3. height, serving, and blocking were don't get in the game unless it's a sorely missed. Her absence also pressure situation. They need forced her teammates into positions motivation. They have to have a that they were not used to. coach yelling at them all the time."Saint Mary's 
The effect of the position· Motivation did not appear to he switching was most evident in the lacking in their second game against Bethel match. The team appeared St. Francis -at least not early in the
defeats 

confused as Bethel moved ahead 5-4 match. in the first game, hut it settled down The Cougars had won their first and won I I of the last 12 points. match easily, hut they did not look
Purdue-Cal. 
It appeared that Notre Dame had ready for the Notre Dame offense. 
straightened out its problems when By CORINNE FLORES See VOLLEYBALL, page 17
it jumped to a quick 6-0 lead in the 

Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team was victorious last night in their first home game. All 12 players saw ac­tion in at least one of the three games that it took the Belles to defeat Purdue-Calumet in this best offive game match. 
The game scores were I 5·5, 1 'i· 10, and 1 'i-5. Veteran players Loret Haney, Marianne Viola, and Ann Boutton set the pace for the match which ended in a short 50 minutes. Boulton's quick attack thrilled the crowd and scored frequently for the Belles. Strong hittng by the Saint Mary's team dominated the game. 
Following the victory, Coach Erin Murphy remarked, "I was pleased with our team's performance tonight. We drilled and worked hard all week for this match, rebounding from our loss to Northwestern on Friday. We '\\·ere able to run a quick offense and our passing was impec­
... 
cable. But we could have been a little stonger on serves." 

Notre ·name ruggers win 2 from Purdue 
The Notre Dame Rugby Club played host to Purdut· last weekend and squeaked by with two victories. The A-side kept intact their undefeated season by walking away with t a 9·7 perfor­mance thanks to Brian Moynihan who scored a try and Steve Schneider who scored t1ve points on kicks. Sean Sullivan and Mike Cooney both played well for the serum. 
The B-side played the best out the three sides. hut were on South Bend's t1eld playing Battle Creek. They were not as for­tunate as thev were beaten by the experienced A-side club. 22· I 0. Matt Zapl;'s and john Reid.scored tries and Tom Reidy scored the two point conversion for the Irish ruggers while the Irish pack dominated the entire game. 
The C-side had a real cliff-hanger as rookie John Tusk kicked two penalty kicks home for six points and Tom O'Brian scored a trv to outscored Purdue I0-H. 
.The club travels to Milwaukee this weekend to revenge a 19HO drubbing to the Marquette Warriors. 



