... Cheerleaders -page 1 0 

VOL. XVI, NO. 125 the •ndt'pendem student newspaper serving notre dame and sainr mary's MONDAY, APRIL 5, 1982 
Pauley probes role as anchor\Vom.an 
By MARGARET FOSMOE have made in broadcasting Saint Mary's News Editor during these years. The first of the "Girls", 
While she represents the Estelle Parsons, Pauley'second wave' of women in believes, "may have been the television newscasting, the real first woman political reporter of 
fight for equality of the sexes on television.'' network news has just begun, The departure of Parsons according to NBC "Today" from "today" was followed by a correspondent Jane Pauley. rapid series of replacements,
"We didn't have to break our including a chimpanzee a. way into TV. We were hired for Fred Muggs), and Maureen reasons, however base or O'Sullivan, who once described 
noble,'' she told an enthusiastic network news as ''no place for a crowd at the Center for woman''. Continuing Education Friday Barbara Walters was the first night. woman to distinguish herself as 
Pauley's speech, "A 'Today' a reporter and work her way up Retrospect: From J. Fred to "co-host" on "Today," Muggs to Me," was the fourth according to pauley. Walters in Notre Dame's "Distin­"broke the sound barrier when guished American Women" she left NBC. . . proving youseries, celebrating a decade of don't have to be a baritone to do co-education at the University. the evening news," Pauley
In an off-beat presentation said. ''Do you realize we put a punctuated by frequent 
See PAULEY, page 3
applause, Pauley discussed the problems she and her pre­decessors experienced in becoming more than just "Today Show Girls". She then 

Pauley discusses 'Hollywood' television
opened the forum to questions. 

Characterizing herself as "not a pioneer by any means," Editor's Note: The following casting. What do you see as the second wave of women was professions, and certainlyshe cited Nancy Dickerson, interview with NBC corres­"third wave"? What do you invited for, as I said, some base mine. At the lower end of the Marlene Sanders, and Barbara pondentJane Pauley was given think is aheadfor women in this and some noble reasons. Prt of scale, we're reaching almost a
Walters as the "first wave" of to Observer Saint Mary's News field?' 
&A 
parity in numbers, but that 
women in broadcasting. Editor Margaret Fosmoe and 
A: The third wave will be hasn't reached the upper ranks 
Q
The 34th "Today Show Girl" some members of the local competing with men on an at all -the executive producerin the 30-year history of the media after Pauley's speech utterly equal basis. Wear not who is a female is rare... the
broadcast, Pauley admitted Fnday night. 
now. to a degree, that first executive producer of ''Good''I'm not naive; I know I'm not 

Q: You sazd that you think you wave of women had to fight Morning America'' is female,the last." She went on to 
represent the ''second wave'' their way in and had to fight ;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;::~_::::_ but she is the exception. 
discuss the progress women 
of women in television news-
their way to stay there. The jane Pauley Q: Television news is sometimes cn'ticized for becom­ing more ''Hollywood'' than

Film series 
it was affirmative action; a news-on'ented. Do you think recognition that we had been emphast's on the "star" quality denied opportunities too long. of anchors is detracting from

Right to Life week concludes 
Another was "Wouldn't she be the news itself? By MIKE LEPRE cesstul series of lectures and attendance at the activities a nifty ratings gimmick?" A: No. there is ~oing to be a StaffReporter movies this past Friday could have been better, she Those were the base and the performance quotient in the 
evemng. observed that many students noble reasons. presentation of the news. According to the group's showed interest in the various The next generation will be Walter Cronkite was an excell­"Respect Life Week," president Pam Fojtik, "the programs and that "in general the woman who is competing ent newsman and, in spite of sponsered by the Notre Dame­week was very well-received by the student body responded for a job with man on utterly himself, he was also a bit of a Saint Mary's Right to Life the students relative to past positively to our efforts." equal terms, where it literally performer. That he had a organization concluded a sue-years." While Fojtik thinks that The week long activities were makes no difference what charisma was undisputable and 

PoUJer blackout hits parts ofNorth Quad 
By MARK BAUMEL ent Center, the student 
and BOB VONDERHEIDE infirmary, and the campus 
News Staff WNDU building. 
More than 100 students 
Electric J?,Ower to nine were still in LaFortune at 
campus butldings on the the time awaiting the 
North Quad fatled early results of cheerleading
yesterday morning and tryouts. Student Laura­
power remained off for at Lewis said the results were 
least four and a half hours. still being tabulated when 
''There was a fault in the the blackout occurred, and 
electric cable line between flashlights had to be used 
Lewis Hall and Brownson to complete the tabulation. 
somewhere between man­
Students in the dorms
holes,'' Director of Utilities 
made use of flashlights to
John Delee s2.id. "We had 
see, but in at least one 
to trace the fault and 
dorm, some of the
bypass it." 
emergency battery­
Power went off at 1:07 
operated "exit" signs also 
a.m. in Breen-Phillips, 
failed to work. The first and 
Cavanaugh, Farley, Lewis, 
second floors of Cavanaugh 
and Zahm Halls, and also in 
were consequently without 
the Administration 
any type of emergency
Building, LaFortune Stud-
light. 

kickedoff last Sunday with an (one's) gender is. We haven't it enhanced his abilities as a evening mass in Sacred Heart reached that stages yet either. communicator. I guess the Church. Later that evening the women are still well­
See Q&A, page 4

film Assignment: Ltfe was feat­outnumbered in most of the ured. The movie depicted a true story of a reporter who exa­mined both sides of the 

Activities survey deadline 

abortion issue. Monday night's speakers also discussed the abortion 
extended to Wednesdayquestion. Janet Smith, a prof­essor in the Program of Liberal By CAROL CAMP study group which toured sev­Studies, presented a feminist's StaffReporter eral college campuses during view of abortion to her listeners spring break in order to exam­at Notre Dame. Speaking at The deadline for returning ine the quality of student life, Saint Mary's, Dr. Clarence the Student Surveys has been the information acquired from Dineen discussed the implica­extended until Wednesday, the questionnaire will be pre­tions of terminating fetal dev­according to Student Activities sented in a report to the Board elopment. Director Jim McDonnell. of Trustees at their meeting in 
The following evening, the On Friday, March 26, May. issue of nuclear radiation and approximately 1,100 question­Commenting on the campus its effects on the next gener­natres were sent out to random­study grou~'s tri.P, McDonnell ation were outlined by Julie ly selected students, faculty observed, 'I thmk we really Loesch. Loesch believes that and staff members. As of 3 got some good ideas --we're 
people who are against nuclear p.m. last Friday afternoon, only not just talking about facili­
..;QC '' 
Ll\... ..:J.

arms should also be opposed to 385 forms had been compieted 
abortion because of the neg­and returned to the Student In comparison :~ other aive effects that radiation has Activities Office. schools, McDonnell stated his upon a fetus. As the surveys are returned, belief that Notre Dame has The legal aspects of abortion, the results will be codified by superior facilities in terms of its and the Christtan policies of the comJ?uter and will be available ''hbrary facility, dormitories, withtn ten days. In addition to and indoor and outdoor athletic 
See LIFE, page 4 
the reactions of the campus facilities." · 



r----,
News Brie/§ 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
Argentina seizes Falkland Islands 
Argentina's foreign minister Nicanor Costa Mendez will explain his nation's decision to seize the Falkland Islands at a meeting of the Organization of American States here today; State Department officials said yesterday. The meeting was called at the request of the Argentines following their defeat in the United Nations Security Council, which passed a resolution Sarurday demanding that Argentina withdraw its forces from the South Atlantic archipelago. Great Britain claims sovereignty over the islands and has readied a 40-vessel flotilla to sail to the islands and reclaim them. The State Department officials, who asked not to be identified, said the United States does not want to be forced to take sides between its NATO ally and a friendly nation in the Southern Hemisphere at the OAS session. --AP 
Threat ofarmaments debated 
''Somehow, someway, we are going to prevent a nuclear war. We must do it. But what is the road to peace?" said Bishop Leroy Matthiesen in a lecrure on the armament/dis­armament issue, last Thursday night at Carroll Hall. The bishop, from Amarillo, Texas, was the first of two guest speakers to present his viewpoint on the very controversial issue of nuclear disarmament. Matthew F. Murphy, a representative from the U.S. State Department, also addressed this issue in the lecture sponsored by Saint Mary's College and the Justice Education Program. In his lecrure, Bishop Matthiesen stressed that development of nuclear weapons ir 10t improving our security and that it will someday lead to the ultimate destructio11 of the human race unless we control the development now. Accordin~ to Matthiesen, "We have the capability of undoing creation. My belief is that we are already on the way to that.'' In the second portion of the lecture, Murphy, a member of the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, addressed the issue of how to defend ourselves against a nuclear attack. Murphy brought up the problem of having nuclear weapons but not using them. ''We have to do more than just do away with nuclear weapons, or how else do we defend ourselves against injust aggression?" said Murphy. --The Observer 

Pope John Paul IT urges Mideast peace 
Pope John Paul II made a Palm Sunday plea for Israelis and Arabs to find a ''fair solution'' allows both to live in peace. Speaking to 120,000 pilgrims and tourists gathered 10 St. Peter's Square, the pontiff said his thoughts went out to "the land of Jesus, to Palestine, where he taught love and died for the reconciliation of humanity. That land sees for tens of years two peoples on opposite sides of an antagonism which up to now has been irreducible.'' The pope took note of the ''new painful episodes'' of violence in the Israeli-occupied West Bank. Five Arabs and one Israeli have died in clashes there since March 19. In an apparent reference to the Palestinians on the West Bank, he said "the anxiety and insecurity have grown among the population, which deeply desires a condition in which their own legitimate aspirations are recognized and affirmed." --AP 

Shuttle prepares return to A.orida 
Final preparations were made yesterday on White Sands Missile Base for the mating ofthe space shuttle Columbia to a modified jumbo jet for a rerum flight to Kennedy Space Center in Florida. Mter fears late 1st week of a weather-caused delay in Columbia's rerum to Cape Canaveral, where it is to be launched for its fourth and last test flight on June 27, calm winds on Sarurday allowed workers to leap ahead of schedule. "Everything should be done by tomorrow afternoon,'' ground operations manager Jim Harrington said yesterday. "It all depends on the winds. Ifthey're like they are today, we shouldn't have any pr~blem. ''Winds were calm yesterday at Northrup Strip, a white gypsum flat where the Columbia touched down Tuesday, after a one-day delay caused by winds that whipped up sand on the floor of the desert. If the seasonal desert winds cooperate, the return flight to Kennedy could begin today or tomorrow morning, Harrington said. The orbiter originally was scheduled to return to the space center aboard the modified Boeing 747 on Wednesday. -­

More winter weather coming 
Win!er storm w~tch for t~~: ~now develo(>ing .and ~ecommg ~c:avy at t~~:; today. W10dy and cold wtth htghs 10 tht,: bw jOs. Snow diminishing to flurries or light snow tonight but continued windy and cold with lows around 20. Light snow or flurries likely tomorrow with highs arouns 30. Chance for measurable snow; 90 percent today and 50 percent tonight. -· AP 
Monday, April 5, 1982 -page 2 


Looking for Links 
With the addition of a word-processing system and computer typesett10g equip­ment in 1981, The Observer took a bold step into... well, into the present. 
The success of the new equipment has encouraged us to look toward growing into the future. Just as people must interact to grow, our growth will come primarily through communication with other systems. 
As with people, effective communication requires that certain preliminary conditions are established. 
First, the availability of both parties is essential --each must give sufficient attention to the other for any meaningful interplay to take place. 
Like a columnist trying to finish a deadline article while flirting with the receptionist, systems are ineffective at doing two things at once. At The Observer, every time we try to communicate with other systems, we must forsake the use of one of our editing terminals. We must decide whether we want to be available for communication, or whether we want to attend to other matters. 
Once availability is established, the next prerequisite is the ability of each system to accept what the other transmits. As an angry mother banishes a naughty child to the solirude of the bedroom, our system sometimes shuts off communications with our Associated Press phone line when AP sends a code our computer doesn't like. 
When both availability and some sort of compatibility have been established, back­ground interference must be eliminated. 
As with a couple trying to hold a conversation under the speakers in a noisy bar, communication between systems is difficult when outside influences interrupt relations. For example, hotel switchboards play havoc with transmissions from our portable terminal --an uncluttered line is necessary for a good link. 
So far, the examples cited are simple applications already in use on our system. They are simple chiefly because they involve linkages wherein our computer is controllin~ a remote device. One end of the hook-up hstens while the other talks. 
The Observer, if it is to grow, needs to develop more involved means of dealing with other data centers, including response to, as well as storage of information from outside sources. 
Here, the plot thickens, because avail­ability, compatibility and freedom from interruptions are not enough to ensure effective interplay. 
In our attempts to establish two-way contact with larger systems, we have found that neither side was willing to commun­icate. 
Iri our first trial run of one new communication program, we had a set of. codes to transmit as a way to say hello and initiate a conversation with another system. The other system was supposed to respond, triggering a second transmission from our system. Unfortunately, our computer didn't wait for a response before transmitting the second set of codes. 



When we fixed that, our computer waited and waited, but the other system never responded. 
Even for computers, patience and will­
ingness  are  essential  elements  of  any  
interchange.  
Trying  to  establish  system-to-system  

communications can be quite an eye-opener for a systems manager. You see, there are similarities between mechanical and human interactions. 
Breakdowns in basic communications usually can be solved simply: A once-angry mother hugs a punished child and love is not forgotten; a push of a button restores wire service phone input. 
And, just as with people, when two fully developed systems wish to talk to each other, each must be willing to wait and listen and accept input from the other. 
But there is a disconcertins difference between human and electromc relations. When a systems manager works on creating a link between his system and another, he knows that it will be done, barring any physical limitations of the equipment. 
People do not have the luxury of knowing that the other party in a conversation really wants to communicate. And people are smarter than computers --.they have other ways of growing when communication first proves ineffective. 
Palestine. Poland. El Salvador. The Falklands. Hiroshima. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views of the author and do not necessanfy represent the views of The Observer or its editon'al board. 
Observer notes 
----------------~ 

Friday's production staff inadvertently omitted the author's photo and byline on the Inside column. The column, about citizen response to flooding in Fort Wayne, was written by news editor Michael Wilkins. The Observer apologizes for the omtSSlOn. 


Applications are now available for the Class of '83 
Senior Formal Chairpersons in the student Activities Office in La Fortune. Deadline for returning the applications 
is Tusday April 6 at 5:00. Questions? call Mark Mai at 1183. 
A T T E N T I 0 N 
The Department of Modern and Classical Languages offer a new language course in ARABIC 



MLAR 101 Beginning Arabic and MLAR 381 The Arabic World: 
Literature and Civilization (in English) 


(For further information call 239-7195) 
Design Editor Tim NeelyDesign Assistant Ed Carron News Editor Vic Sciulli Copy Editors Cindy Coldiron 
Joe Musumeci Editorials La~out Mike McCaugheySports Copy Editor Skip Desjara1nTypist John McCarthyEmergency Types Tari Brown 
Bruce OakleyN D Day Editors Karen McMahon Dave Grote SMC Day Editor Kathy Zuschin Ad Design Fran and ShagsPhotographer CherYl Ertan Guest Appearances Murpliy's Law 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) os published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacation penods The Observer 1s published by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Mary s Col­lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnllng The Observer. P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 



Library to become College Center 

By MARY ANN POITER News Staff 
The old Saint Mary's library will be converted to a ''College Center'' which will include plenty of social space, multi­purpose rooms, a snack bar, and the bookstore on the first floor. 
That's the word from the 1982-83 Saint Mary's Board of Goverance that met for the f1rst time last night and also discussed parietals, awareness of social justice issues and upcoming elections. 
The Director of Student 
Activities Mary Anne 
O'Donnell reported that after 
meeting with an architect, the 
Board of Regents decided on 
the tentative plans for the old 
library. The scheduled opening 
should come in September 
1983. Many plans are still being 
discussed. 

Student Body President Kathleen Murphy sid "the jdea of working together and having good communications with the Board, students, and faculty is what will make everything at SMC work." 
In other actions: the committee of Student Affairs headed by Dean Rice will meet April 17 to discuss the issue of parietals. Both Eileen Murphy, the outgoing president, and Kathleen Murphy will attend. They intend to "really push for the parietals issue." 
The Vice President of Student affairs Elaine Hocter and the Vice President of Academic Affairs Beth Tighe, along with Murphy all stressed the importance on the awareness of social justice issues for next year. Both believe that this was lacking this year. 
Campaisning for hall elections will begin on April 18 and the elections will be held on April 22. Monica Gugle, the election commissioner, said that the elections for Regina! Hall will be next October. 
For Freshman Orientation next year, the Board is thinking about extending the planned activities for the first six weeks of school. In the past, the events have only lasted for four weeks. They are also thinking about coordinating the acitiv­ities with the SAPB and the Board members. 
The next Board of Goverance meeting will be April 25 and all are welcome to attend. 
Pre-med convention 
Kaplan says tests coachable 
By BOB VONDERHEIDE you don't know your material Commission, investigatin_gAssociate News Editor you won't do well. It's an possible consumer fraud, educational bias." Minority concluded that on the contrary
Stanley H. Kaplan, 
students suffer, Kaplan said, such coaching schools can have
nationally famous standardized 
not because of racial bias, but dramatic results. 
test "coach" is no Betty 
because of an "inadequate
Crocker, and he showed up on 
educational system.''
campus last weekend proving that his name is more than jsut Kaplan's school costs $350 
.. . Pauley 
a trademark. for a three to six week 
:'Any rumors of my non­existence are purely coincident­al," Kaplan said. And it is also no conincidence, he added, that students enrolling in his stand­ardized test preparation courses can sometimes improve their scores on an amazing scale. 
Kaplan spoke Saturday mornmg as part of the Alpha Epsilon Delta Region II Con­vention held April 1-3 for regional premedical students. The Notre Dame chapter of the honor society sponsered the convention and hosted 175 delegated from 22 midwestern schools. 
Chief Planner Brian Quinn said that six seminar sessions analyzed subjects varying from medical school admissions to the career opportunities for the 1982 pre-med student. 
Sarurday morning's session featuring Stanlev Kaplan explored how preprofessional students can prepare for the Medical School Aptitude Test or the Dental Aptitude Test. 
Kaplan, who founded a national network of test prepar­ation schools, claims his schools don't "wave any magic wands'' but if ''you study through a program like ours, your scores can imporve a great deal." 
"Ony an improved student can get an improved score," said Kaplan, who prefers to call his schools "supplement~ education." "The test (MCAI) reflects knowledge regardless of how the knowledge is obtained. Score improvement doesn't reflect the effects of a cram course. We're a school." "Are the tests biased?" Kaplan asked. "Yes, in the sense that if 
r~::::~;ling·l
Is31 N. Michigan St.,i South Ben(
II~ P:one-233-4957 . i 
1 






-~-_j 

accelerated review of the sub­jects the MCAT covers. Quinn, who completed a Kaplan course for teh MCAT said that while " a little overpriced, the books ar very comprehensive and they organize the information for you very well. " 
The Educational Testing Service, however, has long maintained that such "coaching" schools have very little impact on test scores especially for students who have done well in school all along. The informatin package ETS provides for students taking the MCAT states that schools like Kaplan's offer "no advantage." 
But in 1979 the Federal Trade 

•.•••...•............•............••.••...••, .......•.••....•.•.•.••
. .
.
. 

The news reporters meeting scheduled forTuesday at 6:30pm has been postponed until April13 
........,....•.........•..........•..•....•...•••..............•..• 


Godfather's Pizza. 
ROSELAI\1-'-.c;77-5880 DELIVERINGto NOTRE DAl\tlE and SAINT MARY'S 
Ur.J..r r/•o· /.\ I'U F\\ I JU 1\ /· U: : 

Driver has fresh pizza for sale on truck.. 
Medium--pepperoni 
HOURS: ffion-Thurs and Sunda


-sausage Or combo 
F"'r•• Cok•: I Ut.r w;m•d.Pizza 2Llt.rs w/Larg• Pizza 

contlnued from page 1 
man on the moon before we put a woman on the evenmg news?'' 
A native of hidianapolis, Pauley sraduated form Indiana University in 1971 with a degree in political science. She spent a year in state politics before breaking into television as a reporter for WISH-TV, Pauley related ''They said they were looking for a 'female-type' person. . . They had a real serious case of FCC license renewal time and needed a woman in the newsroom." 
In 1975 Pauley became a co-anchor for WMAQ-TV in Chicago, and a year later joined the "today" staff in New York. 
sPm -!0:30Pm Fri. and Sat. 5Pm -12:30Am 
Pauley attributed Ronald Reagan's recent attacks on the press to the fact that, as president, he is held responsible for the bad news. ''News is going to tend to be bad. We don't ~o on nightly news to report it's 7 o'clock and all is weJJ'. That's not the function of a news organi­zation," said Pauley. 
'''But it goes both ways,'' she said, pointing out the President's ability to use the news media to his own advantage. Citing the recent coverage of Reagan passing sandbags during the recent Ft. Wayne flooding, Pauley said, 
''You know and we know it was a publicity stunt. But we used it -everyone used it. . . You teJJ 

the good and you tell the bad." 
The demise of several major metropolitan newspapers in the last few years should not obe viewed in a wholly bad light, accoring to Pauley. "You're getting a different kind of newspaper now. What you're getting m their place are a lot of small regional newspapers. .biJ that sense, news papering is healthier than ever," she said. 
Pauley attributed the current internal problems at NBC to ''the cyclical nature of television." She believes NBC must "build a winning network. .. and in terms of news, (we are) very much in the running.'' 
I 



ICELIIIDIIR INTRODUCES
I 


NEW BARGAIN FARES m
I 


MORE OF EUROPE.
I 

WXEMBOURG PillS___,
I
I 

•a ·5a1 

ROUIDTRIP R-DTRIP
I 

FROM CHICAGO FROM CHICAGO 
I 

ZURICH FUIIFURT
I
I 

•599 •557 

-,I
I 



-IDTRIP ROUIDTRIP 
FROM CHICAGO FROM CHICAGO 
I 

All A~• Faroo: Aprol 1 -May 14. 19d2. 7·90 day slay (7·60 dayo l.unm· bourR). Stopovers peorm1tttd 1n both d1ncuons. 14 day advaoce purchase rrqu1rrd. Seats hmned. Ask about our low cos I Normal. Samr Day. and Group farr·s. too.
I! ALSO LOW COST CONNECTING SERVICE TO NICE AND AMSTfRDAM. ~ lcelandair to Lu'xembourg. Luxair or Crossall' connecting service 
! to o~he~::~~~::~ior::ervauon. • Free wme w1th dmner. cognac after. ~ • Bargam Stopover Tours of Iceland and Luxembourg. • Bargain car ~ rentals. • Purchase uckets in U.S. • All fares subject to change and 
government approval. ~ Sre yuur travt"l al(rnt ur call800/555·1212 for tht toll fret" krlanda1r numbrr m )'our arril. 
-~ ICELANDAIR~ 
NOW MORE THAN EVER YOUR BEST VALUE TO EUROPE 
' 
' 


LECTURE by FRANCO FIDO University Professor and Professor of Italian Studies and Comparative Literature 
BROWN UNIVERSITY "'Enlightenment in the Limelight: European Meaning of Goldini's Venetian Plays .. Mon.• April 5 at 4:30 Open tot~~ public. 
FOOTBALL CONCESSION STANDS 
·Oubs, Organizations, Hall Governments have until Friday, April16to apply for a location for the 1982 football season. 
Notification of winners will be the following week. Application~re available in the Student Activities Office. 
... Q&A 

continued from page 1 
same would hold true -to a more humbler degree -with myself. If I wasn't capable of handling news assignments. I would be an embarrassment. The fact that I also have some abilities as a quasi-performer only enhances my job. I work on 
,commercial television. We aren't there broadcasting to a black hole. We do aspire to an ever-larger audience; to an audience larger than our com­petition. If we can do it honorably, and also suc­cessfully, then all the better. 
Q: Dan RAther reportedly signed an $8 million contract last year. Do you think any anchor is worth that much money? · 
No, but-and I'm sure if Dan Rather was here he'd say "no, but" and so would Tom Brokaaw, who's probably making that much or more ­they are W(!rth what the market­
place says they're worth. In Tom Brokaw's case, sl'ecifically, what deter~ed hts salary was almost an auctton situation. All three networks were literally bidding for Tom Brokaw's services. And the bidding ended at a phenomenal level that Tom Brokaw found embarrassing. But that is what network executives all over New York were saying would be Tom Brokaw's worth to them in dollars to come to their network. His name, which is significant because of the reputation that he earned, is worth an awful lot to a network. Mine clearly is not there yet, if it ever will be . . . Those sums are .:!early an embarrassment to the industry and an embarrassment to the individ­ual who. gets them. . .only a handful of working broad­casters make any kind of salaries like that. And the majority . . . are making moderate to good incomes. 
Q: How long do you think it wtll be before a woman anchors the nightly news? 
A: It's going to be a Ions time and part of teh reason I think is, at NBC, Roger (Mudd) and Tom (Brokaw) are going to grow old together, with Dan Rather across the street. ABC is an open situation. In a few years ­not yet -but in a few years you're going to have an awful lot of women who have the credentials to compete with the "captains of the team." some of them are almost there, ifthey aren't already there-the Leslie Stahls, for example-although I don't think anchoring is her forte. She is one of the few who has been around long enough at that level to hold the same kind of credentials that both Tom Brokaw and Roger Mudd have. I certainly don't. Jessica 
(Savitch) certainly doesn't. Give us some time and maybe we wil, but it hasn't happened bet. I am not angry now that there are no obvious women candidates being considered for those anchor jobs. I will be impatient in another five years. Although there literally may be no openings for a long time. 
... Life 




continued from page 1 

issue, were the topics of Wed­nesday's lectures. Dr. Charles Rice, a professor of Law at Notre Dame presented the legality ·of abortion and the impo.r:ance. of these laws in today s soctety. 
Three additional lectures took place the next night as government policy, parenthood and abortion in other nations were the major areas of concen­tration. 
The film series presented on Friday capped the week's events. One filin, Slaughter of the Innocents, deals with the problem of infanticide. Death by Someone's Choice, examines the issue of euthanasia. 
Fojtik explainted that these two ftlms brought up aspects that are often forgotten when discussing Right to Life. ''Althoush our major focus was on abortton, " said Fojtik, 'our group also is concerned with Right to Life issues other than just abortion.'' 
The various l'rograms evoked many interestmg discussions, according to Fojtik. She explained that' 'many people came to the lectures with one opinion on an issue, but left with many new ideas to consider. ' ' 

"Respect Life Week" is an annual tradition in the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community. 


For the "Special Man." A qualified and motivated young college man eager for a career in the nuclear field, a career of the future. 




See the 
Navy 

Sociology Department 



Convention provides training 
By KElll FliNT 
Executive News Editor 
A presentation on the sociological shifts in Latin America highlighted the seventh annual Sociology Research Convention Saturday in O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Visiting professor Otto Maduro of Marida, Venezuela discussed the ''Chan~ing Role of the Roman Cathohc Church in Latin America,'' emphasiz­ing the sociological shift in support from the "status quo" to the poor and oppressed, according to coordinator Donald Barrett. 
Barrett added that Maduro said this "shift" in support is occuring all over Latin America, specifically in Brazil. The Latin American people are no longer supporting their governments, since the major concentration of power is in the hands of a few. 
Many other universities have attempted to sponser sociology conventions, but only seven or eight have proven successful, Barrett noted. 
"Notre Dame was one of the first universities in this country to hold conventions," he said. ''Now that the idea has caught on with other universities, we do not have as much claim to their participation.'' 
Nearly twelve universities participated in the convention. One hundred and fifty students registered for eight sessions held. 
Students each made a fifteen­minute presentation of their papers at the sessions, according to Professor Richard Lamanna. 
There were three or four presentations at each sessions, followed by faculty and audience discussion. Session topics ranged from religions to "Gambling, Prisons and Violence. " 
The convention was "self­financed," in a sense, according to Lamanna. 
"Students who attended from other universitites paid their own way. The Sociology Department financed Notre Dame's expenses.'' 

Lamanna noted that the convention provided good professional training for students. 
''This is the thing one would do-report on one's research to one's professional colleagues," he said. 
"Reports usually are presented in a similar fashion before publishing." 

Summer art workshoporganizes Tuesday 
By ANNE MONASTYRSKI 
News Staff 
The Saint Mary's College Art Department is sponsering ''Redbud'', the annual Summer Workshop this May 17-29 at Redbud Trail Camp, near Buchanan, Michigan. The two­week program is open to all Saint Mary's, Notre Dame and IUSB students and can be worth up to three credits in any one of four workshops. 
The department is accepting ten students from each class at a cost of $414 per student. The cost will cover tuition, room and board, and transportation. 
The program offers intensive courses in four areas of art: drawing and painting, photo­graphy, pottery and sculpture, and mixed-media printmaking. No prerequisite is needed and non-art majors are encouraged to participate. The courses are desi~ned to enhance the stud­ents understanding of the rel­ationship between nature and the arts. 

Each of these workshops is conducted by faculty who teach these course during the aca­demic year at Saint Mary's. The workshops include seven hours of daily instruction by the faculty along with an hour of discussion every evening. 
The workshop also includes a field trip to the Michigan dunes where each workshot> conducts a series of investigations based on this environment. 
Redbud has been a success in the past/ears _pro~iding stud­ents an staff wtth a new perspective on nature and art. In future years the Art Depart­ment plans to expand this program to include more non­art majors. 

Davtd james of The Irish Band was one of many performers in last night's International Festival. [photo by Cheryl Ertelt] 


r·-RiVEil-cifY·RE-a-oiiDs-­
• Northern Indiana's L.argest Selection of Albums & Tapes. 1 Why pay more any place else? 
I $2 00OFFf any regul~r ~ecord or tope with ad.
I • • Lamat 1 per person
I Ex ires A ril30, 1982 
I 50970 US 31 North eOpen till 1 0 every night 13 mil~s North of Campus e ND/SMC checks cashed 
lnext to Al's Supermarket up to $20 over purchase amountI 277-4242 eRecord Crates available 
.. 


The Timeless Tale Of Romance And Song In The Shadow Of Nazi Germany • • • 
Ora Jonesas Sally Bowles Mike Kelly as Cliff Bradshaw Frank Gabriele as the M.C. 
vocals by Anita Ramker Choreography by Colleen Quinn conducted by Bob.O'Donnell Produced by Ed McNally Directed by Jeff Mousseau LSO STARRING: Raul Aportela ****** Bridget Dolan******* Betsy Quinn***** Doon Wintz 

Featuring the Incredible Cabaret Girls -:•Tricia Joyce•·Jacqueli,e Pag-ley•Molly Walsn.Carmela Esposito • -•Laureen Wolfe•Marie Vo11 Feldt• 

Also Featuring :..,John Mosley•Margie Gans.Deanna Deary • Jim Sutherland.• Ross Klisart •Bill Boraczek • .Sob Ferrin• John Davenport·•Laila Makhaii•Barbara ~afalko.•Greg Raglow.Joe Rodriguez• -¥John Sisto. Joel T~glia.. Keith Woeste.Susan Moran .Oavid Barber•Laura Simon·• 
Tickets on Sale starting Monday, April 5th, at the Notre Dame Student Union Box Office and the St. Mary's Programming Office. Tickets are'reserved seats only (the earlier you buy the better the seats will be). Thursday, Apri/15 the performance is for Seniors Only--Senior Formal. 
Produced through special arrangement with Thams-Whitmark Music Library, Inc. 
-----------~ ~--------------------~------------------­
, 


Monday, April 5, 1982 -page 7




Editorials 
In whom does Notre Dame trust? 
When the Congregation of true education. duties ro the-moral -good of questions may never be particular country or region.
Holy Cross handed the reigns of What is it that so humanity. properly considered. 
Another approach mi~ht

the University to the Board of characterizes these money­So much emotion, character Though I speak from a biased involve the histoncalTrustees in 1967, a new view of centered desires of Notre and willpower rise from the liberal education viewpoint, I 
perspective by which the
education became clear: liberal Dame's trustees and students? simple questioning of accepted do not mean to assert that student would concentratestudies were out; pre-profess­In a word -security. beliefs. equations provide frivolous 
upon a certain epoch Qr era
ional curricula were in. It is money, which instead of Verbatim acceptance of data. ­
(much like the Medieval
providing frivolous formulas and models, which Far from that standpoint, I Studies Program).Paul R. McGinn entertainments, provides for seems so prevalent among look to a pluralistic base of 
Colleges and departments

personal independence. This large and impersonal lecture education incorporating 
might attempt a better system
Roper Review need for self-determination has course, leads one to believe that science, business, and the arts of rapport through less rigidso characterized the rough-and­
divisions of majors and through Men versed in management tumble world of American real challenges suited to theand enterprise steered a new business that a man who individual's tastes. 
course for the university and depends on others or who looks 
No longer simple

bore the responsibilities once beyond himself is thought to be 
performance but honest
reserved for educators alone. a fool. 
learning might indeed rid the
Composed of affluent A liberal education seeks not campus of sickeningbusinessmen and respected to put man in control of his anti-mtellectualism.
clergy, the Board boasts only future but helps him to To improve the direction of one full-time teacher, Fr. understand how best to live 
this seemingly unbalanced
Thomas Blantz, CSC, chairman with himself and how best to mode of education, it seemsof the history department. It approach others. 
logical that the Board of seems ironic that Blantz's seat The liberally educated man 
Trustees should open its 
was not granted in response to does not pretend to be wise or membership to one elected ­his classroom expertise but for even to find answers, but daily, professor per college in order tohis stint as vice president for he plods along in the Christian preserve a penetrating look into student affairs some years faith, seeking the unobtainable the world of academics. 
back. goal of truth. 
Why should the mainstay ofThis obvious neglect of an Through this spirit of the academic community beentire perspective of education discovery, the educated man excluded from the planning and lays the foundation upon which learns more of himself and his direction of the University? 

intellectual pursuits fall to the relation to society. Life Such lack of respect of thepr«?ssures of achievement and becomes not a crossword puzzle talents of such a dedicated and 
gam. to be solved, but a blank ~;>ieee 
esteemed body seems 
Seemingly, stud~nts are led of paper awaiting quesuons, 
altogether ludicrous if the 
to believe by the very presence beliefs and emotions. ~t5J1Y~ Trustees are truly looking out of wealthy trustees that The liberally educated man for the best interests of the financial success leads to comes to the realization that all University.
personal fulfillment. of life's experiences lie in a perhaps Notre Dame students into a powerful academic Through a renewed direction 
A science or business degree tangled mesh. Values cannot be fail to take an insightful look interpretation of life. of the educational maoinstream from Notre Dame almost separated according to family, into the realm of the unknown. Courses would be structured so of the university, the student guarantees a lucrative job and friends, and business ties. How many times it seems the as to provide intense can come to know his own place
quick advancement while a In this vein, liberal education words, "What's the right examinations of whole within society.degree from the College of Arts strives to provide an awareness answer?'' bring one to consider concepts. A liberal education must ­and Letters nets few dollars of life's complexities by that students are only looking For example: an in-depth provide more than essay tests (unless of course, one puts his fostering interpersonal contact, for the easy way out. course of study might be and term papers; it must arts and letters degree to use namely through small Seeminly few feel secure undertaken to examine specific provide a philosophy of life. for law school.). Based on this discussion-style settings. It is enough with themselves to be geographical regions, in which monetary criterion alone, many through these one-to-one satisfied with the possibility students would concentrate on 
individual students opt for relationships that students that some questions do not have the culture, econoly, scientific successful careers and forego foster a sense of purpose, pat answers, or that many rationale and history of a 




U.S.S. Corpus Christi lacks sensitivity 
Spanish colonizers of this of the navy thinks there ts for the Eucharist on the prow of that because a town or a school manufacture ordinary crosses hemisphere liked to use biblical nothing blasphemous, or even a death-dealing weapon like the can be named for the Savior, we to kill men in honor of the one or saints' names for placed. So odd, m naming a nuclear Trident sub. The submarine has should not hesitate to use that death that consecrated its own last weekend's voting took submarine "Corpus Christi," legitimate uses, the navy name for a weapon that might instrument. place in a country whose capital which means Christ's Body, secretary (who is Catholic) initiate a war that ends our A letter on the means "Holy Redeemer" (San though the sub's MIRVed argues. But even if that is world. correspondence page of the Salvador) -as a Caribbean warheads can obliterate dozens granted by way of argument, so A believer might argue that, Washmgton Post made a good island was called "Holy Cross" of cities the size of Corpus -some people's eyes-do whips in the event of nuclear war, point. We would all feel; (Santa cruz -now, because of a Christi, Texas. have their uses, and cattle Christ would die again in the mstantly, the travesty of a French interlude, St. Croix). Thomas Drury does not mind prods, and gas chambers, and members of his mystical body, nuclear warhead named after 
being the Catholic bishop of a electric chairs. But would one as his body was tortured on the Mother Teresa, or MahatmaGarry Wills Texas city named Corpus call a whip "St. Francis" or an cross that Christians hav(' Gandhi. But is the saint less 
Christi; but he does object to electric chair "Our Lady of the called holr. But Christians did sacrosanct than the object of 
the use of that religious name Angels"? It i~ absurd to say not fee a vocation to her worship, or the pacifist to
Outrider 

be treated with more reverence 
Our country reflects the 
than the Prince of Peace? Spanish influence where it For the Navy to go forward touched California (San with its plan shows not just bad Francisco) or Texas (San manners, but an insensitivity to Antonio). Protestannts have sacred things. The ship would named places from the Bible be launched with a callousness (Bethlehem, Pa.), just as that belies the claim that it is Catholics have named their only to be used for protection of schools (Holy Cross, whence life, not destruction of it. my son is about to be "What's in a name?" asked graduated). Juliet. In this case, death is in 
This earthly use of heavenly the misuse of Life's name. names can have comic or tragic echoes, as when (in the headlines) "B.C. Crushes Holy 
Copyright 1982 Universal

Cross" or "Los Angeles Tops 
Press Syndicate 
Crime Rate." So th~ _secretary_ 
==Ibe=Obser~ver== Editorial Board Department Managers 
The Oburt1er is an independent newspaper published by the students of the 
Editor-in-Cbief.............................. Michael Monk Business Manager .............................Tony Aiello University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily 
Managing Editor.......... , ..... Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller.............................................Eric Schulz reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report· 
Executive News Editor.........................Kelli Flint Advertisin;: Manager.......................Chris Owen ed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of SMC News Editor..................... Margaret Fosmoe Production Manager.................. Maura Murphy a majority of the Editorial Board. Co.nmentaries, opinions and letters are the views 
Sports Editor...................................Chris Needles Circulation Manager ··-······················Ray lnglinof their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and Editorials Editor .............................Paul Mctiinn Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, ii eocour9.8ed. Features Editor ...................................Tari Brown 
Photo Editor ...................................Rachel Blount Founded November 3, 1966 
P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 

Monday, April5, 1982 -page 8
Sports Brie s 
::~B~y~~~b~e~O~b;s~e~r~v~e;r~a~n~d~~~b;e~A~s:si~J;c,~·a~t~e:d~P;.r~e~s;s:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::r:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
-----------------~-~---~-­

An Tostal Volleyball beginning 
Mud Volleyball. pairings have been posted outside the Student Unton offices. Play begins today and continues until An Tostal's Sunny Saturday. --The Observer 

Golfteam travels today 
The Notre Dame golf team travels to Muncie, Ind., today for the Ball State Invitational. The 18-hole tournament will be held at the Whispering Oaks Golf Club. --The Observer. 

Umpires may strike 
Major league umpires continued to negotiate with the American and National Leagues late last night in an attempt to avoid a strike. The umpires struck in 1979, but their three-year contract expired at the end of last season. They worked the entire spring without a contract, and are considering several job actions if no settlement is reached by game time today. --AP. 

Phelps remains in limelight 
Digger Phelps appeared on the ABC program Sportsbeat yesterday with host Howard Cosell. The two men discussed the current controversy over cheating in collegiate athletics. Cosell, whose comments on the matter were featured in an Observer article last week, and Phelps pointed out that the Irish coach's charges originally appeared last fall in The Observer. --The Observer. 

PingPongsign-upstostart 
An Tostal Ping Pong Tournament registration will be held tomorrow from 7 to 9 p.m. on the second floor of LaFortune. Registration fee is $1. Dorm stars are invited to test their skills in the first campus-wide table tennis tournament in years. --The Observer. 

SMC Softball team shut out 
Saint Mary's softball team lost a 6-0 game to Evansville Saturday in the Indianapolis Tournament. The second half of the tournament was postponed. It will be made up this afternoon at 3 p.m:, and the Belles will take on Purdue. -­
The Observer. 

[)erby favorite emerges 
Timely Writer swept past Star Gallant in the stretch and captured the Florida Derby yesterday in Hallandale, Fla. The win makes the three-year-old the early favorite for the 1982 Kentucky Derby, which will be held at Louisville's Churchill Downs on May 1. --AP. 

Irish prospect honored 
Trena Keys, Indiana's Miss Basketball for 1981-82, will be attending Notre Dame in the fall. The 6-0 Keys, who averaged 21. 5 points per game for Marion High School lst season, won the prestigious title Friday. She is one of 11 girl's named to the Indiana team that will face all-stars from Kentucky in June. --The Observer. 
i~::::::lri~i~!BOOKSTORE.~;~::* 
Today's Games Stepan 1 4:00-Uncle Snagglepuss v. Judge D1xon and the Well-Hung Jury 
4:45 -Johnny lhe Wad Holmes .v F Budd1es 
5:30 -Umdent1f1ed Fly1ng PengUin Trotters v Four Human Bemgs and a Freshman 6:15-McNamara sBand v. Dr J. and lhe F1ght1ng 
Photons Stepan 2 
4:00 -The Chloey Monster v. Five Scott1sh Boxers 
4:45 -Stealy Dan and the Royal Scammers v John Belush1 Takes the Pepsi Challenge 5:30-Lou Costello and the Mosqu1toes v. N1cole s Dad, Aunt and Three Uncles 6:15-B P sPeen-Wagsv. TheJetsons 
Stepan 3 4:00-The Uncoordinates v The Pub1c Cube 4:45-OUintln Da1ley and Four Guys Who Can Put 
1t 1n the Hole v. 6-C Party Nuts 5:30-Chnst1e Bnnkly and the LOUISVIlle Sluggers 
v. Dnbbllng Dyxz 6:15-Buford Never Gets La1d v. Electnc Kooi·Aid Kids 
Stepan4 4:00-Badf1nger v. The BIZzos 4:45-Beerhunters v We D1d 1t Our Way 
5:30 -F1ve Neat Guys v Jack1tup 
6:15 -Grab Your Ankles Fudge Packers v The Weii·Lubed Sconng Mach1ne 
Stepan 5 4:00-Ltzard Ktngs v Beecher Meat and Liquor 4:45-Shroomyeoow v A Crantum 5:30-Kamikazes v. ACC All-Stars 6:15-Were Playing For a M1chelob L1ght v. S.C 
Express 
See BOOKSTORE, page 9 

Classifieds  The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However. classif1eds to appear m the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the bus1ness day pnor to Insertion. All class1f1eds must be prepa1d. either in person or through the mall  
LOST-Pa~r of w~re-nmmed glasses 1n Need nde to Cleveland for Easter Callbrown case-Somewhere between the law John at 1587NOTICES school and the park1ng lot just south of the engmeenng bullding.lf find,call Mike at 2e7-7761 HELP! I need a nde to northern Jersey for Summer Jobs Nat1onal Park Cos. 21 break. Will leave as soon as poss1ble and Parks, 5000 Open1ngs. Complete In­LOST: wh1le going to St. Ed s from the will share usual. Call Pam. 5236 SMC. formation $5.00. Park Report Miss1on library. a black cross pen w1th the Initials Mtn. Co.. 651 2nd Ave. W.N., Kalispell, K.J.C. If found please call Kev1n at 6656 Alders needed to north New Jersey for MT 59901 Easter break Will leave as soon as you MISSING: From LEMANS SEMI-can. Call M1ke 6700. $50,000-$80,000 PER YEAR Are you FORMAL, 3-26, DJ s WRBR bored with your jOb, tired of work1ng for Windbreaker If you have any 1nfo or TYPING: EX-LEGAL SECRETARY. 272­the other man. Nat1ona1 company based picked it up, please call264-5666 after 11 5337 1n Lexington. Kentucky look1ng for five p.m.dlstnbutors "' seven-county a•ea Call 1­Wanted: A roommate for the summer 800-9594 GREEN NOTEBOOK (pocket type) and/or fall semesters to share 1 bedroom LOST on tues or wed. Important matenal Campus V1ew Apt Call Greg at 233-4381 ATTENTION! ATTENTION! 2 A1ders IS enclosed. Contact Dan Upton. 207 St. needed to St.Cioud, M1nn (or anywhere Ed's, x6622 thereabouts) for Easter break. Call 7951 NEED RIDE TO PITTSBURGH CAN or6713 LEAVE ANYTIME WILL SHAREFOUND: Cross pencil Tues. 3-30 COSTS. CALL TOM 61 05in E.G. Aud. Call Mike 3242 HAIRCUTS! ONLY $4 FOR GUYS AND $6 FOR GIRLS--LOT OF EXPERIENCE Need nde to Lousv1lle. Can leave Wed. af­IN STYLING, ROTC AND PERSONALLY ter noon Call AI at 1782 DESIGNED CUTS FOR YOUR FACE AND HAIR CALL MICHOLE AT 7951 FOR RENT j ATTENTION GRADUATING LADIES; Mad Dog·s escort serv1ce now Student hous1ng--c1ean, safe $1 00/mo SENIORS: operating 1n the South Bend area Safe. 291-1405 Working in New York City effective, reasonably pnced. very after gra<fuation? Need a place "European serv1ces offered. Mad Dog 3-4 bedroom home, furnished, 3 blocks tio live? '81 N D grad is looking h1mself IS often descnbed as "the connos· off campus Th1s summer and/or fall for roommate (present one 1s suer of the sweetest frUits of h1s age, and Graduate students preferred. Call Mr going back to grad school) I have .. a man of g1ant strengths and des~res ... Noe, 287-9636, days. a fantastic apartment in a nice, Call 3335 to ach1eve personal serv1ces of safe neighborhood; close and vanous sorts. 4 Bdrrn N Shore $270 mo totaL Call Patty convenient to both downtown 3193228735 Call refunded and midtown Manhattan. If interested"' call John at (212) DEATH PENALTY NICE HOUSES FURNISHED CLOSE TO 668·3126 uaytime or (212) 858­Panel Discussion ND FOR NEXT YEAR 2773604 7464 nighttime. TOMORROW! TOMORROW!!! APT FOR RENT 2880955 Desl)erately need ride to DC or FREE FACIAL! Natural Skin VA for Easter. I am willing to Care Program. Jafra Cosmetics. BE YOUR OWN BOSS COMFORTABLE rent a car!! Please call John, Penny Penrod 291-8310. 5 BEDROOM. COMPLETELY FUR­8331. NISHED HOUSE FOR 5 OR 6. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. PHONE 266-3942 Riders to Purdue. Can Leave 4/73053 Need ride to DETROIT for Easter Call Pete at 3242WANTED REWARD: LOST GOLD NECKLACE HELP! I need rides to New WITH CROSS AT CAMPUS VIEW Jersey for Easter. Can leave POOL SENTIMENTAL VALUE. Please TYPING 28 years as a secrelary-­Wed. noon. Please call Kate call283-6954 excellent typ1st, retired $1.00/page call 2897. Phyllis 259-2501 Need riders from NORTH JER, LOST: Tan tweeu 1acket, brown suede el­SEY to N D after Easter. Brian bow patches. Lost before break 1f found ATTENTION GRADUATING SENIORS 3648 please return to 828 Grace or call John at WORKING IN NEW YORK CITY AFTER 6721. GRADUATION? NEED A PLACE TO LIVE? 81 ND GRAD IS LOOKING FOR D1d someone lose a blue coat 1n Corby s? ROOMMATE FOR SALE I found one that says "IMMACULATE PRESENT ONE IS GOING BACK TO CONCEPTION CHEERLEADERS Call GRAD SCHOOL Michael at 289-7 414 and tell me what I HAVE A FANTASTICE APARTMENT IN STREET NAME SIGNS-your name-any night you th1nk you lost your coat. A NICE, SAFE NEIGH­BOAHOOD; legend up to 13 spaces. Looks hke Notre CLOSE & CONVENIENT TO BOTH Dame Av s1gn. $17.75 $2.00 hdlg IN or· Lost-contacts 1n case Mar. 25. If found DOWNTOWN & MIDTOWN MANHAT· ders add 4'o. (Allow 30 days) AARON'S please call3522. TAN.IF INTERESTED, CALL JOHN AT S/Gfi/S, PO BO 3921, SOUTH BEND, IN 212 ...... ............ . 46619 . LOST: Kodak lnstamatiC Camera, has an 668-3126 DAYTIME OR 212orange case. If found please re-.turn to MEN-Show your lady you care w1th a gift 828 Grace or call John a1 6721. 858-7464 NIGHTTIME of spring--a bouquet of fresh cut flowers delivered each week for 4 weeks. WED­LOST: A GOLD Cl£41N AND CRUCIFIX Need nde to SOUTH FLORIDA for Easter NESDA Y'S FLOWERS 289-1211 AT THI! ROCKNii SWIM OFFICII. Break. Call Todd 1763. "LOST' ON Tm!SDAY MARCH 23, USED BOOK SHOP. HOURS WED,19(12. IF "FOUND" PI£ASI! RliTURN HELPI!! I DESPEAATEL Y NEED A AIDE SAT SUN. 9-7 CASPERSON 1303TO 828 GRACI/ IIA.U OR CALL JOHN TO OKLAHOMA CITY FOR EASTER!!! BUCHANAN AD , NILES. AT 6721­NO QCIIiSTIONS WIU B1i MY OTHER AIDE GOT CANCELLED ASKI!D. l£IS MUCH SENTIMMIINTAL AND ALL MY CHOCOLATE BUNNIESVAI.Uii. WILL MELT OR GET STALE IF I DON'T GET TO THEMI!I CALL RENEE AT LOST: A strand of PEARLS. Much sen­790511111111 TICKETStimental value. Please call Karen at 3773 ............................................................. HELP! I DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE STOLEN: from South Dming Hall, Tues­TO ATLANTA FOR EASTEA!!I CAN !Jcl! Parents have threatened -ance day morn1ng, a wMe leather my purse or LEAVE At'YTIME NEXT WEEK. WILL from the famdy blood line d GRAD TIX any of ns contents to Heather Fraser at SHARE DRIVING AND EXPENSES. BE don't materilize soon!! Please help! Will 100 Lyons. Its return would bs ap­A GOOD EGG AND CALL 3351. pay $$$!1 Call Donna x7924 after 10pm. preciated/rewerded. Phone 7848.  Need extra tickets for graduation. Call Markat3008 WANTED grad. tickets. Please call 277­0758 after 5.00 p.m. Need tix for GRADUATION Call MARTY 277-1036 PERSONALS Clunk head 0 Finnegan b ? · d. 3/31/82 J01n Holy Cross, SMC,in a day of prayer He gave h1s hfe for JusticA and King Lear Thanks anyway, Dot Would you and/or your fnend(s) hke to be cancatured and put into cartoons? That's what w1ll happen 1f you send 1 )name, 2)photo. and 3)address to: StuffS1mon c/o Jeb Cash1n BoxQ. The Observer All entnes Will be 1ncluded in one strip for the An Tostal frame-stuffing contest Use campus ma1l ..Its free! COME AND HEAR FATHER THEODORE HESBURGH.csc SPEAK ON NUCLEAR THREAT; UPDATE ON VIENNA MON . APRIL 5, LIB AUD, 4 pm. REALITY IS JUST A CRUTCH FOR PEOPLE WHO CAN T HANDLE DRUGS SENIOR FELLOW NOMINATIONS-Ap­plications available in Student AC1V1t1es Office thru April 12 Hey ya II, It s time for the Betler Bass Show, w1th JP Keyes, amatuer angler. Today, Michael T Kelly IS a-go1n to il· luslrate his quasi-bnlhant techn~que for langosta hunting Timmy P w111 probably fall 1n the ocean-but that s not unusual And Jorge. the Boat Nipple. will worry about "gett1ng caught, and cry because we never do what HE wants to do Stay tuned-we II be nght back after we buy the obligatory ten-dozen shnmp. PH/LL Y-NEED RIDE HOME FOR EAS· TER. WILL SHARE AS USUAL CALL RON AT6261 We need ndes home to Connect1cut or NYC area for Easter Break. Will share usual Call Matt-3248 or Dan-1820 MIKE GURDAK FOR U.M.O.C ...... HE REALLY WANTS IT!'II Break a leg, B1g Brol!l Little S1s CABARET IS COMING !!! CABARET Tickets on sale Mon ApniS ND/SMC SENIOR GIRLS NIGHT OUT Tuesday Apf'll 20 w1th FAST FREDDY & THE PLAYBOYS at the MusiC Box, 120 W. Mishawaka Avenue Refreshments and hrst keg free. No men admitted until 11:00 p.m. Advance tickets $8.00, on sale now at A1ver City Records. 50970 US 31 North.  ND/SMC SENIOR GIRLS RIDE NEEDED TO PITTS. FOR NIGHT OUT. Tuesday April 20 EASTER BREAK CAN with FAST FREDDY & THE LEAVE lA/7 or 4/8. WILL PLAYBOYS at the Music Box, SHARE USUAL. lAND 120 W. Mishawaka Avenue. Re­UNUSUAL!) CALL MARCI AT freshments and first keg free. 8018. No men admitted until 11 p.m.Advance tickets $8, on sale now at River City Records, 50970 US See the hams in LIVERWURST 31 North on April 6 and 7 in the Little Theatre at SMC. This personal is to announce to all that Mr. JoseP.h Lombardi, PREPARE YE ALL NO MALESthe abuse king of the entire KIM GREENE ... aliasuniverse, loves Notre Dame­TIGRESS... will be celebratingSMC women who eat over 5000 her 2oth B-OA Y in exactly onecalories a day! Do you fit this week! If you are leaving fordescription? like -­ao you find Easter help her celebrate earlyyourself munching out on whole at 218 PW. If not... see you forpizzas and higlilighting your HUGS and KISSES Monoay!nights with the opening of food Ah revenge is sweet... The FOXsaTes? If you weigh over 400 pounds ana still gomgbgive Joe a call at 3679 or stop y at 454 Morrissey! (side note to Joe -­What is this ridiculous riR·Off Ia-BUSE -­CHENG!. .. Love see going on? Kisser?!?!? Some­the defensive WOMAN OF THE body senously blunderd on this.YEAR) No self-defense, we can't kiss Between 11 and 7, that's worse than parietals. What about wit­AIDE NEEDED TO PITTS FOR EASTER nesses, that's important. WhereBREAK --CAN LEAVE 3/7 OR 3/6 WILL are St. Pete And the gods whenSHARE USUAL (AND UN-USUAL!) you need them? I Feel that weCALL MARCI AT 6016 should seriously bring back Mass Assassins before 1t's too late.Attn. Band Members· Love,Here's the WORD: · The ReaperBeing active is what she thrives,So vote for her and socialize! Get the clue? LYONS HALL FOODSALES OFFERSLAURA HALLAND II Social THE BEST IN FRESH, THICK CRUSTChairman PIZZA DEUVERED ANYWHERE OON SOUTH QUAD FOR THE NOMINAL CHARGE OF ON SOUTH QUAD FORHey y'all, THE NOMINAL DEUVERY CHARGEIt's time for the Better Bass OF THURSDAY NIGHTS FROM 9:30 TOShow, with JP Keyes, amateur 11 AND ORDER YOURS. ALSO:angler. Today Michael T. Kelly EVERY WEDNESDAY NIGHT ISis a-goin to nfustrate his quasi­GUEST CELEBRITY NIGHT WITHbrilliant technique for langosta WELL­KNOWN CAMPUS-FIGUREShunting. Timmy P. will prooably WORKING THE COUNTER/fall in fhe ocean--but tliat's not unusual. ..And Jorge, the Boat Nipple, will worry about "get­ting caught" and cry because we And who enioys foolish pleasurenever do what HE wants to do. on Friday mghts? Rabbits, tur­Stay tuned --we' II be right back tles, pinstripes and dark tans, ofafter we buy the obligatory course ...ten-dozen shnmp... THE FILM CLUB PRESENTS: Dear Kathy, CHARLY Happy 18th Easter Birthday! APRIL 7,J. 9 and 11 Welcome to the "ND-SMC com­EG.AUu$1 munity." Love, Nancy Marybeth,My humble backwards is " ...If this is what Y.OU want. yours forever. you've got it." But 1f you getLove, some t1me and change yourChips mmd... The Chef Marybeth Cliip Block's backwards is RIDE NEEDED TO CHICAGO nothinc compared to his front­INW Suburbs?) For Wednesday, wards! In fact, he usually uses April 7 after 12 noon Will Share his frontwards for hockey. Usual Call DAVE at 1418 Yours. Ozark To all those who were on the European Seminar: "OK guys-­Dear Dad, Mom, Ken, Joe and you're crazy!" Thanks for a Chris: major good time. Follow-upJust wanted to say "Hi"! parties will have to be planned.Can't wait to see y'all at Easter. No doubt! Love, the abused Thanks for such a great break women. before. See, Chris, I laid you I'd write you a personal. Love, see lhe hams 1n LIVEASWUAST on April Rosemary 6 and 7 1n I he L1ttle Theatre at SMC  

In Baltimore 


Orioles, Royals open AL play 

CINCINNATI (AP) -Astro­nauts and one of the newest members of baseball's Hall of F Arne will be on hand when the 1982 baseball season begins today. 
In the traditional National League season opener at Cin­cinnati, the Reds meet the Chicago Cubs. A sellout crowd of more than 52,000 is expected at Riverfront Stadium, where astronauts ] oe Engle and Richard Truly will make the ceremonial first pitch. 
They will throw out a base­ball which accompanied them last November on their 1.25 million-mile trip aboard the space shuttle Columbia. 
Also on hand at Cincinnati will be former baseball Com­missioner Happy Chandler, who was elected last month to the Hall of F Arne and will be honored before the game. 
In Monday's American Leag­ue opener, the Baltimore Orioles will entertain the Kansas City Royals. 

Faust, captains honor Rockne 
By CHRIS NEEDLES Sports Editor 
It was, indeed, a fitting tribute to a legend. 
Knute Rockne, the legendary former Notre Dame football coach, died in a tragic plane crash in Bazaar, Kan., 51 years a~o last Wednesday. And, ever smce, on the Sunday morning closest to the anniversary of his death, his friends and admirers have gathered to remember him and celebrate his life. 
The tradition continued yes­terday morning with what has come to be known as the annual Rockne Memorial Mass and Breakfast, held in the South Dining Hall's west wing. A crowd estimated at nearly 1,000 persons, both young and old, battled the bitter cold and high winds to attend the festivities. 
It all began 50 years ago when a few of Rockne's former players chose the particular Sunday aforementioned to pay homage to their former coach. Back then, they attended mass at the Log Chapel and remi­nisced later over breakfast in the cafeteria, which was located in the same building where the South Dining Hall is now housed. 
And, even though the event has grown to a much larger scale, the purpose remains the same. 
Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C., the University chaplain, was the celebrant of the Palm Sunday mass. In a brief but poignant sermon, Fr. Griffin found it ironic that Rockne's death occurred in the spring­time, which he referred to as "the season of hope. " 
''The s~;>ring is a time of new life," Griffin said, "and we hope that Rockne has found 
h.
lS. " 
.(\fter the mass, which fea­tured the singing group from the 12:15 Sunday mass at Sacred Heart Church, breakfast was served. The food, which was very SAGA-esque, in­cluded real eggs, sausage links, orange juice, coffee and danish. 
During the meal, the crowd had the opportunity to preview the soon-to-be-released doc­umentary on the life of Knute Rockne, narrated by Cliff Robertson. 
Then after brief remarks by Notre Dame's 1982 tri-captains Phil Carter, Dave Duerson and Mark Zavagnin, the guest speaker, Head Coach Gerry Faust, took the podium. 
The beleagured second-year coach, who in many ways resembles Rockne in his en­thusiasm and coaching habits, portrayed "the Rock" as some­one who ''epitomizes the Notre Dame mysttque." 
"The 'mystique' can be summed up in a few words,'' continued Faust. "It is that 'people care about people.' Today, people feel and care the 

Summer Special Rates 



STORAGE 

... _..... ........~ ........··~ 
--==------=--~~

Glffi,;i~ JUGan•a•nnlm•llflll 
CALL NOW 683-1959 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS APPROX 2 Yz MILES NORTH U.S. 31-33 GATES OPEN ALLDAY SUNDAY 
aster Mini Warehouses 
same way he did, and I think Rockne was the reason for this." 
It didn't take long, though, for Faust to divert from the topic and begin making predic­tions for the upcoming season. "I've seen a lot of thin~s in five days of (spring) practice," he said. "There's a big difference in the strength and quickness of the team. It's good to go through something like last season once, because it makes you appreciate winning more. 
"I won't go promising any National Championships,'' Faust concluded, ''but I will say that ND will be heard from once again." 
The 50-year tradition, and the man that it honors so well, was summed up in a message from President Ronald Reagan, who himself is a part of the Rockne legend, having por­trayed the famous Irish half­back George Gipp in the fllm 
Knute Rockne, A/1-Amen'can. 
Reagan called Rockne "a man who transcended his time to remain in the hearts of all of us." 
The mass/breakfast is an annual event sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of St. ] oseph County in conjunction with the Rockne family. 

Theodore Hesburgh, 
c.s.c. 

MO!I.,APBILS 
4pm 


Library Auditorium 
of Kuclear 
The other 22 major league teams are scheduled to open tomorrow, with six games scheduled in the American League and five in the National. 
AL games tomorrow will see Texas at New York (Tanana v. Guidry), Boston at Chicago (Torrez v. Burns), Cleveland at Milwaukee (Barku v. Vuckovich) and Toronto at Detroit (Stieb v. Morris) in day games, and Californ;a at Oakland (K. Fosch v. I.angfor) and Seattle at Minuesota (Bannister v. Redfern) at night. 
Baseball's newest stadium, the 54,711-seat Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome in downtown Minneapolis, will be the site of the Mariners-Twins game. 
In the NL Tuesday, MOntreal is at Pittsburgh (Rogers v. Rhoden) and San Francisco at Los Angeles (Holland v. Reuss) in day games, while New York is at Philadelphia (Zachry v. Carlton), St. Louis at Houston 
(B. Forsch v. Ryan) and Atlanta at San Diego (P. Niekro v. Eichelberger) in night contest. 
The Cubs, with a new general manager and manager, have only three starters remaining from their 1981 opening day lineup-Bill buckner at ftrst base, Steve Henderson in left field and Leon Durham in right field. Dallas Green, manager of 
continued from page 8 
Stepan 6 4:00-Snlle Museum and Four Other Mult1m1lhon Dollar Wastes v Cash Cows 
4:45 -Pete McDonald v Shoes Were Made For 
Sucking Face W1th Dogs 5:30-Clueless v. Moons Goons 
6:15 -How to Burn Cookies w1th Bob BasiC v Ch1efta1n and H1s Tnbe Stepen7 No Games Scheduled Stepan 8 No Games Scheduled 
Bookatore9 4:00-L1ck My Greasy Balls v RECON II 4:45-B1ll Granger and Four Reasons to Read the 
Sun T1mes v Even Less Jacksonless F1ve 
5:30 -Absence of Talent v No. But Senously, Where Are My Gloves and Junk? 
6:15-Flash and the Gash v TOYOSPE-WITCO Bookatore10 

the Philadelphia Phillies last year, now is the Chicago 
general manaser' new field boss 1s Le while e Elia.  the  
Doug Bird,  who  had  a  4-5  

record last year, will be on the mund for Chicago, facing Cin­cinnati's mario Soto, 12-9 a year ago. 
Like Chicago, Cincinnati will have a new look. Alex Trevino will be the catcher, ] ohnny Bench has moved from behind the plate to third base, and Cesar Cedeno, Paul Householder and Clint Hurdle or Mike Vail will be in the oumeld. 
Baltimore Manager Earl Weaver, who will start an untested left side of the infield, will open with Dennis Martinez on the mound. Martinez tied for the major league lead in vic­tories with a 14-5 record during the strike-shortened 1981 sea­son. He will be opposed by • Dennis Leonard, 13-11 in 1981. 
The same is expected to attract 50,000 to Memorial Stadium. 
The orioles will have Cal Rip ken, Jr. at third base and former second baseman Lenn Sakata at shortstop. 
The Royals are fiddin~ a lineup that includes e1ght players who started for them in the 1980 World Series, the only newcomer being right fielder, Jerry Maitin. 
·4·45-Nestle sCrunch and the Bloated Stomachs v Esophagus Constnctors 
5:30 -Throb Knobs v Fat Edd1e and the Boys That Come From Beh1nd 6:15-Nancy and Sluggo Suck Face v Beacher Tool and D•e Lyona11 4 00-Cnme Doesn I Pay v Four H1ts of Mesa and Shrooms 4·45 -Dnbble, Penetrate, Shoot and Layup v 
Shoot1ng Wads 5:30-Four Awesome Guys v Cocoons itt 6·15-Who the Helt Are These Guys v Apastoloc 
SuccessiOn Lyona12 4 00 -Buck Naked v Heyt Where Are the While Women At? 4 45-Doctors of Layup v. ToxiC Shock and the 
5:30 -Four Whalers and the Grabber v We It Steal an NIT B1d 
• • .Bookstore 
~~0-MBA F1ve v Roemer s Narc Squad _ 6. I 5-Up_!!nd Com1ng v Joe Mama 
tr----------------,amanO.atORV me€tlnqwlllB€t 
t helb tuesbay, apRil 6th, ~oR anyone t t lnteqesteb 1n paRtiCIPatinG on next t· f yeaR S Class aOviSORY COunCilS on th€ t t SeconO flOOR In taroRtUn€. t 
t -Ctasso~ :83 .... .5:30 M t t • 84 ..... 6:~0 .. t ' '85 ..... 8:00 J 
~.-..~~~~ ..... ~~ ..... ~---.._. ...... ~._. ...... 
Sign -ups for Sophomore Literary Festival  
being taken at Student Union Office, 2nd floor LaFortune. ALL POSITIONS AVAILABLE Sign -ups April 2 -7.  







82-83 cheerleaders chosen 
Notre Dame's cheerleaders Two ofthe three Notre Dame squad. as Notre Dame repre­for the 1982-83 school year were women chosen are freshmen. sentatives. selected after tryouts were Lynette Boggs of New York The 1982-83 cheerleaders 
completed this weekend. City, and Lynn Thomas ofLima, traditionally make their collec­. Pat;U Pine~a, a ·senior eng­Ohio, will join sophomore tive debut at the annual Blue­meermg maJor who will return business major Annette Gold intrasqaud football game . for fifth academic year, was Morrow of Indianapolis on the set for May 1 this year.
"' elected co-captain. The El Paso native will be joined by ] ojo Bautista, a sophomore science major from Alliance, Ohio. The 
Pear~y s~s first action 
two will lead a squad consisting of three other cheering 
for lrtsh m Texas Relays
veterans. 
Student-Body Vice President ByEARLRIX recovered from the arthrosco~ic Bo~ Yonchak, a junior business Sports Writer surgery that forced him to mtss rnaJor from Chesterland, Ohio the entire Irish indoor season. will. return1 along with anoth~ His performance bodes well for semor engmeer, Don Shank of Saturday's · Texas Relays in both the track and football 
El Paso. 
Austin marked the start of the teams. Pearcy was injuredLaura Lewis, a sophomore in outdoor track season for Notre during the football season, also, 
the College of Arts and Letters Dame, as well as the ftrst and this race in his home state and a Fort Wayne native, will varsity competition for highly~ was his ftrst varsity competition be the only woman -besides touted Van Pearcy, a freshman for the Unversity. 
Bautista -who will return. 
from Andrews, Texas. The Irish Head Coach ) oe Piane says 
distance medley team was in he expects Pearcy to make an, _ Randy Kelly was chosen as second place after three legs of ''extremely big contribution,'' The 1982-83 cheerleaders were namedafter tryouts endedrhe leprechaun, Notre Dame's the race, but drifted to seventh to the Irish track squad. Piane this weekend. Eight men and seven women made theofficial mascot. 
as junior Jim Moyar ran a adds that the addition of Pearcy squad. [photo by Cheryl Ertelt] · The other men chosen for the dissappointmg 4:14 mile. will give the Irish a very strong sq_uad include Gary Barba, the Junior Steve Dziabis and mile-relay teacm. Pearcy,thrrd senior engineering major freshman Pearcy and Tim Eady, Van Eyken, and Dziabis
frol_ll ~l Pa~o, John Bronw, 
Cannon, all ran very well. could break the school record in 
Notre Datne breaks 
a JUmor sctence major frm Dziabis posted a 1:51.9 in the as soon as two weeks, saysBangor, Pa., and two freshmen 800-meter opening segment of Piane.
ftom Indiana · Plymouth's tom 
out ofbaseballslump
the race. That should be fast Tim Cannon, fromTreat and Mike Dorenbusch of enough to convince him he can Bloemfteld Hills, Mich., ran
columbus. runs scored, while teammate
run successfully at the distance. "an excellent race, " according ByAL GNOZA Two Saint Mary's women Dziabis qualified for the to Piane. Cannon ran 2:59 time Sports Writer Chuch Tasch went 4-for-5, 
knocking in four_ runs. InNCAA's in both the 500 and for 1200-meter segment of thewere selected for the squad. 

addition to the offensiveSophomores Laura Bach, of 600-meter events indoors, but distance medley. Cannon, only ~treworks the Irish displayed athose distances are not run a freshman, surely hasn't runElmhurst, Ill., and Sandy The Irish basevall team shook ttght defense as they coiillilitted during the outdoor season. like one this year. He was theBradley of Angola, Ind., both second-ranked Irish cross­their mild offensive slump nary an error.

made it through the rigorous Pearcy's 47.2 400-meter run indicated that his knee is fully country runner last fall, and has yesterday and went on to down notre Dame jumped out to anselection process. 
run consistently during track h~st But~er Uni':'ersity 13-6. The early 4-1 lead but saw that edge season as well. wm, thetr ftfth m a row, raises disappear in the fourth as the 
~................................ 
Crusaders took a 6-4 lead on theThe rest of the Irish trach Notre Dame's record to 7-6. 

"I knew our hitters would strength of a grand slam home 
team had their meet at Indiana
f All OO!H Majors · : run. The Irish regained that
State cancelled due to severe come around," said Irish 
lead in fifth,

weather. It was the second skipper Larry Gallo. the top of the
:. and Prospective Majors i however, as they bunched 8 hits 
week in a row that the Irish The Irish pounded out 13 hits 
were victims of the weather. on the day m battling the high together to plate ftve runs. The
+ A • . + The Irish will have a dual meet winds and cold temperatures. rally was highlighted hr.
+ nyone mterested 1n Film and Video courses + 
. ' next weekend versus the Naval D~ Szajko helped to warm doubles off the bats of Phil : Mass Communication ancll or Speech Communication, + Academy in Annapolis, Md., things ~· though, b_y going Dingle and Szajko, as well as 
. . 
weather permitting. 4-for-4 witlltWo RBYs and five singles by John Deasey, Rick
• or wishes to discuss the possibility of a major : Chryst, and Tim Ambrey. That's when Mark Clementz
; or a double major in these areas should come to .: 
came in to close the door with 4 


t · the departmental offices on the dates : Baseball innings of shut-out ball to 
I I I 
presernve the sin for Bill


! indicated for majors. i 
Stonikas. Steve Whitmyer

continued from page 12 
Year and Cy Young Awards. started the contest and went 3
• Advising & Registration • seek to become the first player to Milwaukee's Rollie Fingers, the and 1/3 innings before giving 
win three straight Most Valuable all·time leader in saves with 272, way to the bullpen. Stonikaz Player trophies, and 21·year-old Fer· could crack 300 in that category as then pitched 1 and 2/3 innin~

' ~ Mon., April5_:~niormajors-ND i 
! 
nando Valenzuela will try and repeat he tries to duplicate his brilliant while the Irish provided himTues., April6-Seniormajors-SMC + his brilliant rookie season with Los 1981 season when he won both the v.:ith the ~o ahead runs, givingWed., April7-Juniormajors-SMC : Angeles, when he became the first American League Cy Young and htm the victory. 

player to win both Rookie of the MVPawards. 
~................................ 
Thur., Apr~8-Juniormajors-Np  :  
•  Tues., April13-Soph. majors-ND  :  
•  Wed., April14-Soph.majors-SMC  ·  :  


UldUIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIUIUIUIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIffiiUIIUIIUIIIIIIIIIUIIUIIIIIIIIIIUI.dl 
Co~imo ~ ~ ffiaUt cne~tgn 

18461 St. Rd. 23 South Bend, call for appointment 2 77-1875 

-shampoo, conditioner, ctit style Guys-$7.00 treg. 13.00) Girls $10.00 (reg.l8.00) For Co-Designers Only. 
I ...IIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUI......IIUIIIIIIIIIIIII 
SAT., APRIL 10 7:30P.M. Notre Dame A. C. C. 
Adm1ss1on: $7.50 (lower arena)· $6.00 (bleachefs) 
$2.00 D1scount Youths (12 & under) & Semor C1t1zens 
$2.00 off also ND SMC Students-Faculty -Staff 
Tickets on sale A.C.C. Box Office 9am -Spm 
It was Clementz, however, 
who put the clamps on the 
Crusader attack, givmg up only 
4 hits in registering hiS fust 
save of the year. "He threw 
strikes and did an excellent 
job," commented Gallo. "The 
pitching staff has come through 
when we needed them and 
today was no exception. 
The Irish were supposed to 
play a double-header at Indiana 
Umver.sity on Saturday, but 
70-mtle-an-hour winds 
~;mcelled ~1 hope for a game. 
The wtnd was blowing 
straight into the pitchers' faces. 
So~eone may have gotten hurt 
so tt was for the best that the 
game was not played," GAllo 
noted. 
[HE OAR HOUSI
I·Beer
I• Uquor Open till 
:. Carry out 3:00amm= 
~siNGLES BAR -BOOZE &DANCING 272-7818 
u.s. 31 North 
(I block south of Holidaglnn) 

-~---------­
----~-~-­
.Ihe~crer======================================== 








~~cJl~~=====================M=on=da=y=,A=p=ril=5=,1=98=2;=pa=g=e1=1
Molarity 

11n-::H ~~ G,£17/Nt:, 114R~i£P,., [)JON IS qOINC, TO H£1? 50/00L lrND CHI)C.fi 15 G,DIN6, TO WDR}) FbR A PHAfH·fACEUTIC<'\L 

The Daily Crossword 
©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
Michael Molinelli 


NO IXJPe. ZIJNK. THE  I~  
UNIVliRSITY CANTAF- fAJfAT'S  
FORO IT. NOW, fllille  ~?IS  
IN Ff?lM 15 7Ht WIN£  7HAT A  

ANI? AJ.!!!!7Hii ~-~~~? 
' 

...r" 
. 
--~ ­
~ 
ACROSS 24 Hue 1 Dickens, 25 Scalloped for short 26 Indian figs 5 Desert 29 Slick-dweller talking 10 Vein 30 Oldsaw 
network 31 Down-to· 14 Injured earth 15 Violin 36 Far: pref. 
maker 37 Side 16 Beyond 38 Slangy 17 Wing-like negative 18 Brazilian 39 Pounding 
city 41 Medieval 19 De Lauren· guild tlis 42 Pocket 20 One Roman stuff hill 43 Betena· 22 Prepared cious copy 44 Selective 
Friday's Solution 
SAMBA.FAK I R It~~~~~ E R I TEMS  
I C I ER.EMI LE  
FREEFORALiS  
TENT.UN~ I  
-LASS T S  E T S E  
OIF F I C E• RUT  CH­ 
M A R N~M 0 A N S  • Ril B  
AJLIEIGI CIA R N E. M OlDIE  
E WIE D  
R A E.F L~~~NrS-BRA I NY L E  N S E S  
P R 0 N T 0 M A R  T­ 
LI]OSE. LOW.  I L I A  
ANT.FREEO~B O 
IDE.UPPER E ARD NTAD  
DOR.LITRE A SHES  


I 'TOW
'lflne 
}f)(/,MI/RK.
Kl{)()fNG 
THIS IsN'T
Mf... 

MYSC&Ncl 
I
' 
~ 
1...,..;::~11,, 
""'"""'"..,...."'\. 
-.r 
fJ:, rw­
nrn H J1l~ 
~~ 
JebCashin 

WHY DIDN'T I G/1/E 

Campus. 
4 p.m. --Presidential Address, "Nuclear Threat: Update," Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, Memorial Library Auditorium 
4:30 p.m. --Lecture, "Enlightenment in the Limelight: European Meaning of Gal­doni's Venetian Plays," Prof. Franco Fido Brown University, Rm. 331 O'Shaughnessy 
6 p.m. --Reconciliation Service, Re~ina Chafel, Sponsored by SMC Campus Mmis­try 
7 p.m. -· Film, "Antonio Das Mortes," Annenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by 
corn, $1 

7:30 p.m. --Lecture, "Spectacles for China-Watching," Prof. Edwin VanKiey, SMC, Carroll Hall, Sponsored by History Department 
8 p.m. --Lecture, "The Church Today: A Bishop's Perspective," Most Rev. John Mackey, Bishop of Auckland, New Zeafand, Library Lounge 
9 p.m. --Film, "Equinox Flower," Annenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by COTH, $1 
T.V. Tonight-
7:00p.m. 

16 MASH 22 CBS News 28 Joker's Wild 34 The Macneil/Lehrer Report 46 Believers Voice of Victory 
7:30p.m. 

16 The Muppet Show 22 Family Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 
8 p.m. 

16 Monday Night at the Movies: The Kid with the Broken Halo" 22 Private Benjamin 34 Great Performances 46 Lester Sumrall Teaching 
8:30p.m. 

22 Report to Murphy 34 ABC Movie: "You Only Live Twice" 46 Blackwood Brothers 
9 p.m. 

22 MASH 34BernsteinI Beethoven 46 Today with Lester Sumrall 
10 p.m. 

16 The Best of the New Saturday Night Live 22 Lou Grant 34 Claus Oldenberg's Crusoe Umbrella 46 Jimmy Swaggan 
10:30 p.m. 

34 The Tom Cottle Show 
11 p.m. 

16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 The Dick Cavett Show 46 Praise the Lord 
• 

The Student Union Social Com-mission is now taking 
applications for the Social Commission Staff. This is a great opportunity to get involved in the S.U. the coming school year! 


Call Dave Droulliard at 3181 or 239-7757 
48 Indian 
garment 49 Speed 50 Last 54 Chinese 
nurse 55 Desiccated 57 Region 58 Anger 59 Subject 60 Playing 
group 61 Rare person 62 Alpine call 63 She: Fr. 
DOWN 1 Bloke 2 Oahu dance 3 Soviet Sea 4 Cleverly 
contrived trick 5 Frontier homes 6 Willow, 
for one 7 Masculine 8 Loire 
summer 9 Witty 
rhyme 1 0 "Thinker" maker 11 Broadway smash 
12 Shared belief 13 Eat away 21 Floor 
covering 23 Money owed 25 Metallic 
sound 26 Trail 27 Notion 28 Date source 29 US presi· 
dent 31 Roman 
thinker 32 Non-living 33 Viet­34 Lhasa­
(terrier) 35 Spare 37 Chummy 40 Different 41 Arduous 43 "Messiah" 
composer 44 Cugat's ex 45 Esther's 
foe 46 Missouri tribe 47 Those unnamed 48 Military 
maneuver 50 Sped 51 USSR city 52 Aquatic 
mammal 53 Domesticate 56-Grande 
..

••••• ·· The Student Union presents : •
• • Dan Peek • formerly ofAmenca •
• • Apt1117,1982 • • 8Pm Qt StepQn Centet • • Tickets are $5 in advance. • 
and $6at the door
• You can bU!f yo..t tlck•ta tight now •••• on caapuaatthe sunck•tOfflc• •
•

e OfottheACCBoxOfflc• .. 
Monday, April5, 1982 -page 12
orts 
Baseball '82 opens with Cubs and Reds 
Leon Durham is one ofonly three starters tomorrow when the new-look Cubs travel to who will return to the Chicago lineup Cincinnati. [AP photo] 
452 teams left 

T.P.S. wins Bookstore opener 
By BRIAN REIMER 
Sports Wn'ter 
It was a chilly day for Bookstore Basketball as the eleventh annual sprin~ classic, which is now the world s largest basketball tournament, opened yesterday afternoon. Talk Plenty S. . (TPS) Again defeated It's Only Emotional, 21-5, in the first annual Hall of Fame Game, which .Pits the tourney's highest ranking team against a randomly selected opponent. 
-, Tournament Commissioner Dave Dziedzic began the festiv­ities with the traditional coin­toss. TPS Again won the toss and wasted little time as they scored the game's first five points and led 11-1 at the half. a three-deep crowd surrounded the court and enjoyed the show, despi~e the frigid weather condiuons. 
Greg Bell and Tim Collins, winner of the 1981 Mr. Bookstore Award for being the best non-varsity athlete in the tournament, led TPS Again with six baskets apiece on identical 6-of-11 shooting per­formances. Stacy Toran and ., Mansel Carter, whose ex­cessive physica! pl~y last year 
Bookstore XI 
won him the Golden Hatchet Award, each scored four. ' Clarter blocked six shots. Duane Dickens rounded out TPS' scoring with one bucket. 
Toran was pleased with his team's performance and noted that "We play well together because we re used to playing as a team." Dickens claimed that "Our team is more serious 
• this year. We don't clown around as much as we used to. We definitely want to win the tournament this time." Last year TPS lost by two points in the championshtp game. 
Accordmg to Collins, last year TPS was ''pretty unknown as we made our way to the top. This year, everyone's gunning for us. We're going to be more serious. Given the weather today, and the fact that we haven't played toget~er in a 
'We definitely want to win the tournament this time ... ' 

year, I think we played a good game." Bell, who made a great lay-up but missed two slam­dunks, added that "We're having fun out there. We were a bit tight, recovering from some injuries, but we played well." 
Charlie Moore of It's Only Emotional became the ftrst candidate for the Hoosier award (given to the biggest gunner) with his 2-14 shooting per­formance. Steve Puisis also scored two points. Faustin Wever, who scored his team's other point, said ''It was fun. We had a good time. We had no illusions of winning whatsoever. When we saw the tournament brackets, I couldn't help but wonder how we defied the 452-1 odds of meeting them in the ftrst round." 
Weber, in the tru Bookstore spirit, was able to fmd room for optimism in defeat. "We think that in spite of today's big loss, we still have a shot at making the NIT." 
Today, the ftrst round will continue with a full slate of games on the Bookstore, Lyons, and Stepan Courts. commissionerDziedzic noted that "We opened this year's tournament with a bang. I'm glad the weather cleared. This morning, when I inspected the courts, they were icy. I would like to stress that all the games will be played at their scheduled times, no matter what the weathe conditions are, though I hope the snow stays away.'' 
By HAL BOCK 
Associated Press 

Free from labor strife for the first time in three years, major league baseball opens its 1982 season Mon­day with the hope that the excite­ment of close races and individual stars reaching for career plateaus can wipe out the bitter taste of last summer's seven-week strike. 
The players have put away their 
picket signs and the focus now is ex­
pected to he on hits, runs and errors 
instead of union-management con­
frontations. 

The Cincinnati Reds, baseball's 
oldest franchise, begin the National 
League season with the traditional 
opener Monday against the 
revamped Chicago Cubs. A sellout 
crowd of more than 52,000 will jam 
Riverfront Stadium to watch astronauts Joe Engle and Richard Truly make the ceremonial first pitch, using a baseball which accom­panied them la..•;t November on their 1.25-miilion mile trip aboard the space shuttle Columbia. 
Included in the Cincinnati crowd will be former baseball Commis­sioner Happy Chandler, elected last month to the Hall of Fame, and scheduled to be honored before the game. 
The American League season also 
opens Monday, in Baltimore with 
the Orioles entertaining the Kansas 
City Royals. 

The other 22 teams are set to 
open Tuesday. Eleven games are 
scheduled, six in the American 
League and five in the National. 

In the AL Tuesday, it will be Texas at New York, Boston at Chicago, Cleveland at Milwaukee and Toronto at Detroit in day games, and California at Oakland and Seattle at Minnesota at night. The Mariners­
Twins game marks the opening of baseball's newest stadium, the 54,711-seat Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome in downtown Min­neapolis. 
Tuesday's NL openers have Montreal at Pittsburgh and San Fran­cisco at Los Angeles in day games, and New York at Philadelphia, At­lanta at San Diego, and St. Louis at Houston in night contests. 
Baseball officials have been en­
couraged by strong season ticket 
sales. They hope that is an indication 
fans are returning to the sport, after 
the disruption of last season. 
The 50-day strike wiped out 714 major league games last year as management and the players union dueled over the issue of compensa­tion for clubs losing free agents to other teams. The settlement in­
cluded provisions for a one-time on­ly split season which produced a new tier of postseason playoffi; and stretched the World Series until al­most November. 
This year, baseball returns to its traditional 162-game schedule, hopeful that a summer free from strikes, except the kind that pitchers throw, can signal a return to record attendances which shot past the '10 million plateau before last year. 
Gaylord Perry's bid to become 
baseball's tirst :)00-game winner 
since Early Wynn reached that 
figure 19 years ago is one of many 
goals that could be reached this 
season. 
Four other active pitchers, 
Chicago's Ferguson Jenkins, Steve 
Carlton of Philadelphia, Tom Seaver 
of Cincinnati and Baltimore's Jim 
Palmer, also are on the road to 300 
and could close the gap significantly 
this summer. Jenkins goes into the 
season with 264 victories, Carlton 
with 262, Seaver 259 and Palmer 
248. 
Jim Kaat ofSt. Louis, who like Per­ry is 43, starts his 24th major league season, a record for pitchers, and has 278 career victories. 
Perry is second on the all-time strikeout list with 3,336, behind Walter Johnson's 3,508. While he might not reach that goal, it does seem within reach of Houston's Nolan Ryan. The Astros' fireballing right-hander is only 259 strikeouts away from Johnson, and Ryan has exceeded that figure in a season six times during his career. 
Carlton (3,148), Seaver (3,075) and Jenkins (2,962) also are among baseball's all-time strikeout leaders, and Jenkins needs only 38 more to become the seventh pitcher to reach 3,000 for his career. 
Before anybody gets to Johnson's strikout mark, however, Pete Rose should reach Hank Aaron and second place on the all-time base hit list. Rose, who will be 41 on April 14, has 3,697 hits, 74 short of Aaron, who will be inducted into the Hall of Fame this summer. Once Rose gets to Aaron's 3, 771, the only man ahead of him on the all-time hit list will be Ty Cobb, who had 4, 191. 
Rose also has three other career 
targets within range. He needs 454 
at-bats to tie Aaron ( 12,36-i) for first 
place, 55 games to tie Willie Mays 
( 2,992) for fifth place, and 34 runs 
scored to tie Stan Musial ( I, 949) for 
fifth place. 
It should be an exciting season tor 
younger stars, too. 
Philadelphia's Mike Schmidt will 
See BASEBALL, page 10 
INSIDE: 
Rockne p. 9 Orioles p. 9 Cheering p. 1 0 Pearcy p.10 Baseball p. 10 








