,Fossils -page 6
' ' 

THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1982
. VOL. XVII, NO. 9 t.lw indqwndt·nt ~lutknl nnnpapcr ~t:r\'ing nolrt· dame and ,,IIlli lllal'} ·., 
Off-campus crime decreases 
By DAN MCCULLOUGH campus security is also making fre­contammg clauses to protect the i News Staff quent checks over the area. Hourly student from unnecessary obliga­spots were run on all local television tions, and this also is made available 
Increased efforts on the part of and radio stations last week warnmg to each student. both the Department of Off-Campus potential victims and giving sugges­Although Campbell warns that, Housing and the South Bend Police tions for preventing crime. "As soon as you move off campus, Department ( SBPD) have resulted Campbell, along with Captain Lar­you are a regular citizen," he is also in a marked decrease in crime in the ry Bennett of the SBPD, urges giving increased attention to the outer Notre Dame community, students to lock doors, windows, security problem. according to Brother John and to secure all possesions; to He frequently rides with the SBPD 
Campbell, director of off-campus record serial numbers of of bikes, as they survey the housing sections housing. stereos, televisions and anything to ensure that security measures are As a part of these efforts, every else ofvalue; and to take special care taken in a way which most benefits 
transfer and off-campus student was not to invite crime through a lack of the students who are under the care given a specially-prepared pamphlet concern. ofOff-Campus Housing. on preventing crime. "We are trying The Department of Off-Campus The department's efforts have not ­to get the kids as they are moving in, Housing provides additonal security gone unmerited. Since Campbell 
and tell them what the neighbor­services for the students. The assumed the position of chief of the hood will be like and what they department inspects all available department, several letters have should look out for," says Campbell. housing, and rates the condition and been received which proclaim that Other measures include the safety of each. A list of these houses security has "done more than ever 
recent expansion of the SBPD, or apartments is made available to before." which now has a station less than a every student r~siding off campus. mile from the housing centers. The The Law School has prepared a lease See related story, page 3. 
Tyson,Beauchatnp 

Priests dismiss 'heir' role 
were also concerned about the num­administration." As a resident of Dil­
By CAROL CAMP 
ber ofpriests with senior level ofex­lon, he maintains that "I have the
Senior StaffReporter 
perience." 

unique opportunity of seeing the 
"Another concern was how to 

Notre Dame student as a total per­
Dismissing the notion that they 
replace a president who was ob­

son by being able to live with them
are the sole "heirs" to the 
viously not waning in competence as well as by teaching them in the
presidency ofthe university, Fathers 
or health...quite simply, Father Hes­classroom."
David Tyson and William Beauc­
burgh was doing a great job." Tyson's perspective as to the
hamp view their roles in the Ad­
Tyson describes his job as an nature of his role in the administra­
ministration as an effort by Father 
"unfolding process--there are no tion is shared by Beauchamp, who is
Theodore Hesburgh to involve 
specific set of job responsibilities, presently serving as the Executive 
younger Holy Cross priests in ad­
except to assist the president, and to Assistant to the University Vice
ministrative capacities. 
learn what he does in terms of run­President, Rev. Edmund Joyce. He
Said Tyson, "They (the Board of 
ning the Universiy." Because of the observes: "The reason that we are in
Trustees) saw us (himself, Rev. Mal­
nature of his role in the administra­these positions is to give a variety of
loy, Rev. Bartell,and Rev. Beauc­
tion, Tyson is involved in the day-to­people in the Holy Cross com­
hamp) as people who had the 
day decision-making process in the munity some experience in ad­
capacity to work at senior levels of 
university, and frequently ministration."
administration, but who had not had 
represents Rev. Hesburgh in.various Beauchamp adds: "It could be
the experience." 
official capacities. For example, he is construed that we're fighting it out
Additionally, he stated that "We 
a member of the Provost Advisory or competing to see who gets the
do not see this as a competition, but 
Committee, a standing committee 'top job,' but that's not the way that I 
we see our roles as service and of a 
comprised of the four college deans

learning experience. Also, we don't See PRIESTS, page 4
and the Provost. This committee

feel junior in the operation, because 
advises the provost with respect to 

he (Hesburgh) treats us as col­

Dr.jochen Abraham Frowein (Photo by Rachel Blount) 
Professor disapproves ofpipeline sanctions 
ByJOHN BURCHETI that all member nations agreed to News Staff respect. The convention also es­tablished a judicial system of en­Aleading West German profes­forcement which was designed sor in constitutional and public to, as Frowein said, "develop international law says he disap­common European standards of proves of the Reagan administra­Civil Rights." Frowein is the tion's sanctions on technology to Vice-President of the European be used in the construction ofthe Commission of Human Rights, a trans-Siberian pipeline. group which investigates charges 
Dr. Jochen Abraham Frowein's ofhuman rights violations against 
comments came at a luncheon European nations. He also is a 
yesterday at the University Club. graduate of the University of 
Following the luncheon, Michigan's Law school and is a 
Frowein gave a lecture in the law member of the prestigious Max­
school in which he explained the Planck Institute in West Ger­
structure and purpose of the many. The lecture was the first 
European Convention on Civil of a series of lectures to be 
Rights of 19 53 and of the sponsored by the White Center, a 
European Commission on think-tank in public policy for 
Human Rights. Frowein said law students. The next White 
the outcome of the 1953 Con­Center-sponsored lecture will 
vention was a treaty that con­feature Senator Gary Hart on Oct. 
tained a list ofbasic human rights 13. 
the interpretation of academic 

leagues." 
policy." Minimum $l00fines 
Tyson, who has served as the Ex­
In addition to his administrative 

ecutive Assistant to Hesburgh, 
duties, Tyson continues to teach a 

described the dilemma facing the 
Roemer issues alcoholdirective
management course in the business 

Board ofTrustees last fall, when Uni­
college for three main reasons: "to 

versity President Hesburgh an­
maintain student contact, to 

ByVIC SCIULLI (d) On Sunday nights only, all students can enter the
nounced his intention to retire at 
develop professional relations with 

Assistant News Editor Club and only non-alcoholic beverages will be served.
the end of last year: "The intention my colleagues on the faculty, and for 
Anyone bringing in alcohol will be considered in viola­

of the Board of Trustees was to 
my own professional development, 

A directive which lists the regulations regarding the tion.
recognize the fact that there are Ho­
because teaching management is 

use ofalcohol at Notre Dame was issued from the Office Dean ofStudents james Roemer emphasized that the
ly Cross priests with ability, but they 
closely related to the work I do in 

of the Dean ofStudents yesterday. more tightly worded regulations are not intended to The directive is more comprehensive than the al­protect the University, but rather to inform students of cohol regulations listed in Du Lac and also covers the state laws. Roemer believes that the old directive, 



rules for the new Alumni-Senior Club. which didn't mention the Indiana State Code was 
Kegs and ponies are restricted on University owned "misleading" and gave the appearance that the Univer­grounds, including inside the football stadium and the sity tacitly approved of underage drinking as long as it ACC. Violators face a minimum $100.00 fine with more was done according to the rules of Du Lac. severe violations resulting in additional sanctions. Roemer also stressed the importance of protecting 
This year's directive also includes a summarv of the license ofthe Alumni-Senior Club by strictly enforc­related Indiana Siate Laws, which define the cri~inal ing all regulations. These regulations include keeping a penalties for minors who purchase, consume, or close watch on those entering the bar since member­transport alcohol in the state. A minor in Indiana is ship is limited only to students and Alumni of Notre defined as anyone under the age of 21. Dame and Saint Mary's. 
According to the directive, drinking (in moderation) Despite all the rules and regulations which govern is permitted only in pri.vate residence rooms and in the drinking on campus, Roemer said that some members Residence Hall Party Rooms. Violarors ofeither ofthese of the Notre Dame/ Saint Mary's community feel that rules are also subject to tines and sanctions. the policies are"lax... These people feel that the Univer­
The new directive also specifies rules for the Alumni­sity should be more vigorous in enforcing Indiana State Senior Club: Codes and take a more active interest in private drink­
(a) 
No student under twenty-one is permitted in the ing parties. Club. Those who gain entrance are subject to the above Roemer admits that alcohol abuse is a "serious" tine. problem but does ·not believe that Notre Dame has a 

(b) 
Anyone who enters this facility except by the more serious problem than "comparable" schools. He front door will also be in violation. especially disregards claims and "polls" which say that 


(c) Anyone who opens an elf it door to permit stu-Notre Dame men drink more heavily than their coun­Ret•. David Tyson, C.S.C. Rev. William Beauchamp, C.S.C. dents to enter will be considered a violator. -· terparts in other schools. 

By The Ohsen•er and The Associated Press 
On a midsummer nightn the French town of 
Tours, 27-year-old Patrick Bondy killed himself by swallowing bar­
biturates. Near his body lay a how-to-commit-suicide manual that 
has become the most controversial book in France this year. Bondy, 
a former department store worker, had been depressed and out of 
work for nine months. "The authors are criminals," Marcel Bondy 
said after his son's death. "This horror must be withdrawn from publication." He has joined psychiatrists, politicans, religious leaders, suicide prevention centers and others who want the best seller withdrawn. Based on the beliefthat suicide should be painless, the 276-page book entitled "Suicjde Mode D'Emploi" (Suicide Operating Instructions) contains 50 recipes for lethal "cocktails" that guarantee a "gentle" death. "This book is bad for depressed people with suicidal fantasies who are seeking help," said psyc­hiatristJean Pierre Soubrier, whose 60 publications on suicide have earned him the name "Monsieur Suicide" in France. "Nine out of 10 people who try to kill themselves don't want to succeed." French Minister ofHealth Jack Ralite has urged the book be banned. So have the nation's largest medical; pharmaceutical and consumer groups. 
-AP 
The Reagan administratiorus open to retreat on its attempt to relax the education rights ofhandicapped children, Education Secretary T.H. Bell said Wednesday. Bell assured an over­tlow crowd of 250 at the first of several public hearings that the administration has a "teachable attitude" about all of the proposed changes. "We're not dug in and set on any specific provisions," he declared. The tentative revisions BK W -G( PUBLISHED Aug. 4 ignited a storm of protest from advocacy groups and parents of the nation's 4 million children with learning problems or mental or physical handicaps. Critics contend the changes would strip parents of some rights, strengthen school administrators' hands and erode gains made by children since Congress passed the Education for All 
Handicapped Children Act in 1975. -AP 
Veterans of the Vietnam War suffering from delayed stress, mild anxiety, severe mental disorders or fears of Agent Orange poisoning don't have to face their problems alone -at least, not in Muncie, Indiana. A self-help group, Vietnam Veterans of Delaware County, is the only veterans' organization in the state that is totally independent of outside sources of income, says president Jerry L. Griffis. "We don't get a nickel and that's the way we want to keep it," Griffis said. "This is all our own blood, sweat and tears. We're here to help each other out and help out the community. ''It's just the ques­tion whether the Vietnam vets sit around and feel sorry for them­selves or get out there and do something about it," he said. Many of the 60 vets who make up the Muncie organization say it fills a void. They insist there is little rapport between Vietnam War veterans and members of the American Legion and Veterans of Foreign Wars. ­
AP 
Miss Kentucky,Gwendolyn Suzann Witten, won the 
talent division Wednesday on the first night ofpreliminary competi· 
tion in the Miss America Pageant, singing "And This Is. My Beloved" 
from the musical "Kismet." Miss California, Debra Sue Maffett, won 
the swimsuit competition in a snow-white outfit.There was also eve­
ning gown competition among a third ofthe 50 contestants, but the 
judges' choice is kept a secret to add suspense in the selection ofthe 
10 finalists Saturday night. Rookie emcee Gary Collins announced 
the two winners to the 8,700 people in the audknce at the Conven­
tion Hall in Atlantic City as a 33-piece orchestra played ·~Miss 
America, You're Beautiful," the show's new theme song. -AP 
Pulitzer Prize-winningcartoonist Garry Trudeau is giving up "Doonesbury" for more than a year to give his characters time to grow up -and himselfa needed break, Universal Press Synd­icate announced Wednesday. "For almost 15 years, the main charac-. ters have been trapped in a time warp, and so find themselves carrying the colors and the scars of two separate generations," Trudeau, 34, said in a statement issued by Universal Press. "It was unfair to stretch their formative years to embrace both Vietnam and preppy. "My characters are understandably confused and out of sorts. It's time to give them some 520 haircuts, graduate them and move them out into the larger world of grown-up concerns. "The trip from draft beer and mixers to cocaine and herpes is a long one, and it's time they got a start on it." "I need a breather," said Trudeau. "Investigative cartooning is a young man's game. Since the industry frowns on vacations, I'll be claiming 2 medical leave." -AP 
Amid the rubbleof war-torn Lebanon, four In­dianapolis religious and civil leaders say they found little destruction and great potential for tourism. The leaders spoke Tuesday about a fact-finding trip they took to Beirut. The resentment they expected to find over Israel's invasion never materialized the leader said. In fact, most Lebanese they spoke to expressed joy· over eliminating interference from the Palestine Liberation Organization in Lebanon. Members of the Hoosier delegation wee: lou Solomon, executive vice president oftheJewish Welfare Federation ofIndianapolis; Rev. Landrum Shields, Witherspoon United Presbyterian Church; Gary Schahet and Benton Marks, both Indianapolis businessmen. The four paid their own expenses to visit Lebanon with the intent to learn the true nature of recent events in the Mideast, Solomon said. He said 
"media distortions" had given local religious and civic leaders a mis­taken impression ofthe reason for the Israeli invasion and its impact on Lebanon. Solomon said news reports had exaggerated the num­ber ofcasualties and refugees produced in the fighting. -AP 
Mostly sunnytoday and mild. High around 80. Partly cloudy Thursday night and Friday. Low Thursday night in the mid to upper 50s. Highs Friday in the upper 70s to low 80s. -AP 

~---~--~----------------­
Thursday, September 9, 1982 -page 2 

Guards gain guns, responsibility 
Almost two full centuries ago, our wise forefathers guaranteed Americans the right to bear arms as put forth in the Bill of Rights. Of course,just a few years before that revered document was unveiled, thousands of nasty men wearing silly red coats were feverishly lighting us in an attempt to regain control of the colonies, and a formidable and wild land lay largely 'un­explored and untamed to the west. In those days,the gun was necessary to win us freedom. The gun put food on the table and allowed the pioneers to explore the unknown territories. The gun was necessary for sur­vival. 
Today, ours is still a gun-crazy society, but for very different reasons. Some say the gun is still essential for survival, but it seems that many more are ·killed by it than are saved. We live in a society where life is cheap and guns are cheaper and can be as easily obtained as a pack of cigarettes. The bad guys have guns to rob the good guys, and the good guys have guns to protect 
themselves from the bad guys. 

Under such conditions, it seemed inevitable that Notre Dame's security force would someday have to arm itself in order to become more effective in the never-ending· battle between the modern day Jesse James ,and Wyatt Earps. So it came as little surprise Law Enforcement Academy in Plaint1eld. This training included at least 53 hours of target practice on both inside and outside ranges. With so much practice, the chances of being struck by some stray lead have been minimized, so you might want to put off that visit you were planning to your local bullet-proof vest dealer. 

And despite the vicious rumors that have been circulating, academy officials have assured me that Clint Eastwood movies were not included in the regimen of training films. 
Another aspect to be considered when trying to un­derstand this situation is just how necessary the gun­slinging officers are. They are rarely, ifever, faced with a life or death situation involving a gun. One top ad­ministration official said that as long as he has been at Notre Dame (seven years), there has never been such a 


when The Observer life threatening confronta­reported last week that tion. So why the guns? ·many ofthe security person-Believe it or not, the main nel are currently authorized reason is practicality. Uni­to carry firearms. versity officials are fully 
After hearing official con­aware that South Bend isn't firmation ofthis story, my in­exactly Shangri La. Crime is itial reaction was similar to no stranger to the city, espe­
that of many students on cially in some areas around campus; I simply disagreed 
Notre Dame. The potential with the policy. Although for armed robbery or other the policy has heen in exist­violent crimes is very real ence since 1977, up until and very threatening. And 
this year the only with the campus beingslow­"authorized personnel" ly expanded to cover more allowed to bear arms num­area, an extra burden of vul­bered around two. Now that nerability is added. With the count is up to 14. new WNDll building to the 
Visions of crazed security officers raced through my mind, as I imagined them laying in ambush for unsuspecting Domers smuggling illicit contraband on to campus: "Drop that keg, or you're history, fellah." I imagined certain officials in the administration advocating a shoot first, ask questions later policy with regard to parietals violators. I shud­dered as I envisioned trigger happy officers firing into the stands during the Michigan football game as some fun seeking freshmen try to pass up a cheerleader. 
Then rationality took over and these nightmares began to fade. But some fears still persisted, and I found that my concerns were shared by many others at Notre Dame. 
One ofthe major worriesn·garded the training ofthe officers. Were these "authorized personnel" merely authorized by virtue ofbeing handed guns, or were they properly trained in the use and misuse of firearms and schooled in the legal ramifications ofblowing someone away? · 
According to university officials, each officer received I 0 weeks of intensive training at the Indiana 
===-The~Observer Design Editor..... Deirdre (Another Year)· Murphy llesign Assistant ... Elizaheth (Big Ikip!) Blakey Layout Stajf ..................... Maureen Burke .~ Gentit'men (Sorry guys, J forgot your names) J)·pesellers . ............... 1 Oon'r know Toni Rutherford News litlitor . ... Mark (Another Late One) Worscheh Copy Editor... . ......... Maureen 0. B&Tl.ayout... .. ..... Alex Szilvas Editorials Layout......... ...... Paul McGinn ·sports Copy Editor. A Community Effort T)'}Jist..... . ............. Alex Szilvas Phoiographer...... .............. Rachel Blount ND Day Editor..... .......................... Dave G. Guest Appearan,·es.... ....... Tom Sapp The Shadow Fling asideyourfaded sorrows. Cynics'fears are prison bars. Give your hopes unto tomorrow, Andyour hear's unto the stars.  
The Observer tUSPS 598 920! •s published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays except dunng exam ilnd vacat1on penods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa.nt Mary s Col· lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased tor $25 per year tS 15 per semester) by wnt.ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 The Observer IS a 'T1ember ot The Associated Press All reproduCtion nghts are reserved Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556  

west, the credit union to the 
north and the ACC to the east, a greater area must be 
patrolled and protected. 
These places are susceptible to crime not only be­cause of their outlying locations, but also because they often hold large amounts of money. The credit union, the ACC ticket·windows, and the new Senior Bar all present major targets for criminals. If one of these places werecver to be robbed by a gunman, the 
.responding security officer would be helpless to do 
anything and may be even be more of a target because 
of his blue unitorm. 
Despite the protection that the guns should afford 
the officers in a dangerous situation (only those patroll­
ing the campus perimeter in cars will be armed), a gun 
has only one purpose; to shoot another person. Let's 
just hope that our security officers accept this added 
responsibity with the seriousness that it deserves. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views of the author, and do not necessarily represent the views ofThe Observeror its editorial board. 


~ 

The Observer Thursday, September 9, 1982-page 3 
Temporary housingremains 
Nine freshtnen tnoved at SMC 
BYSANDYVALENZUELA 
Staff' Reporter 
:\'ine of the eighteen freshmen in 
temporary housing at Saint :\1ary's 
have heen mo' ell to permanent 
hou~ing as ofthh week, according to 
Shter Karol Jackowski, Dirn·tor o~ 
Hesidt·nce Life. Four of the ~tudent>­
have been relocated to rooms it' 
:\-lcCandles~. four to Holy Cro~s. and 
one to Regina. 
Three studenh still reside in the Holy Cross parlor anJ six arc living in the McCandless lounge rooms. The LeMans guest rooms have heen vacated and will once again be used for guests ofthe college. 
Mary Ann Rowan. director of ad­missions, explained that "a historical 
Campus View 
Apartments 
burglarized 
By MIKE LEPRE 
StaffReporter 
Two Campus View apartments were burglarized last Friday night, according to the Saint joseph County Sheriffs department. 
The two suspects, both black 
males, stole valuable stereo equip­
ment from each apartment, and then 
fled the complex in a gol~-colored 
Pontiac. 
Sergeant John McCallister noted 
that "the first report of a robbery 
was received at about 1:1 S A.M. and 
then the second call came in at 9:10 
later that morning." McCallister also 
added that his department had 
found "no evidence of forced entry 
at either location," 
The value ofthe stolen objects has 
not yet been assessed, and some of 
the missing items include a tape 
deck, receiving units, and stereo 
speakers. 
Although the two men are being 
actively sought by the Sheriffs 
department, there is no evidence 
leading to the solution of the case. 
Sergeant McCallister concedes that 
at the present time "the suspects 
could be one among approximately 
one-hundred and fifty thousand 
people." 
:,'buttle Schedule G'hanged 
The Office of Student Activities 
has announced the following 
changes in the Notre Dame/ Saint 
Mary's shuttle schedule: Bus x26, 
operating Monday-Friday, which 
arrives .at the NO library at 10:37 
a.m., will not depart until 10:45 a.m. 
The bus wili then arrive and depart 
from the NO Circle at 10:48. 
The shuttle will arrive at Saint 
Mary's at 10:55, unchanged from the 
listing in the schedule. 
~rudy of enrollment is done each vear to determine how many stu­
.dents are expected to enroll ti:om the number accepted." Accepted ~tudents who do not enroll may have encountered tlnancial dif­ficulties or perhaps viewed Saint \iary's a;, their second choice. This 'ear. however, such was not the case. Said Rowan, "Saint Mary's mu~t have. been the tlrst choice of the majority of our accepted students, or SMC met the needs of those ac­<.:epted. because a lar~er percentage enrolled than was expected." According toJackowski, iris usual to allow the admittance of ten extra people because of expected drop­outs. This year, however, 31 stu­dents -18 freshmen and . 13 transfers -were without housing at the beginning ofthe semester. Rowan says that the fact that more students returned to Saint Mary's than anticipated was what cabsed the housing shortage. In actuality, the freshman class this year con­tained only 470 students as compared to 475 in 1981. The students placed in the tem­porary housing were those who were accepted late and/or sent in their deposits late. For about the past five ye~s, temporary housing has been set up just in case. Laslyear it was not necessary to use the extra rooms. 
The students admitted into tem­porary housing at the beginning of the year were required to sign an agreement to move when per­manent housing was found for them. The students were not given the op­tion to stay in the temporary housing, fur hall residents need the space for <'onvening and entertain­ing guests. 

Fran Havorka. a re:-.ident of the McCandless lounge, says of the rooms, ''! like it. I really like it. I've gotten used to it." She says that al­though !'>he like~ the closeness with the other students in the suite, she doesn't "get to meet as-many other people from the hall." 
Gail Kraft, also residing in the McCandless lounge likes it because of the spacious room and the con­venience of a bathroom and lounge within the suite. 
Kraft also notices the isolation from the rest of the hall. The McCandless lounge, she notes, has no telephone. 
These students, although they have paid for their telephone charge for the semester, must use the phones at the front desk or in friends' rooms. This tends to be in­convenient, she notes, for incoming calls. 
The students still residing in tem­porary housing will be relocated as soon as rooms are made available. The students in McCandless will be housed first. If more space is made available, the transfers then will be moved on campus, according to Jackowski., 
~Heritage of Ireland' continues at SMC 
By LESLIEANNE WADE 
News Staff 
Saint Mary's College continues its film series "The Heritage oflreland" tonight with the showing of "Saints and Scholars" at 4:00 and 7:00 p.m. in Carroll Hall. 
The series will continue through 
Sept. 30 and will include three addi­
tional films on Irish history. 
Dr. A.R. Black, professor of his­tory, obtained the films through the American Committee on Irish Studies. "The films are the best available. They were well received in both Ireland and England where they were part of the critically ac­

claimed BBC television series 'The Heritage of Ireland'," Dr. Black stated. 
According to Dr.Black, "The first two films entitled 'Who Are the Irish' and 'Hunters, Farmers and Celts' brouW.u a number of in­terested students to Carroll Hall. But there is always room in the auditorium for more." 
The three remaining films entitled "More Than Irish," "The Anglo Irish" and "The Rural Tradition" ate fifty­two minutes each in length. They will also be shown at 4:00 p.m. and 
7:00 p.m. in Carroll Hall at Saint Mary's College on Sept. 16, 22, and 30. 
Notre Dame Debate and Speech 
compete in debate and individual speech events 
travel to other colleges 
Organizational Meeting 

ursday, September 9th 

Z.nl~~~~ 


ASH. AUD. 7:30p.m. 
or call Brother john Doran at 239-5 790 



FIRE UP---FOR FOOTBALL AT BRIDGET'S 


The Observer Thursday, September 9, 1982 -page 4 
5.5 million member body 
· Lutheran churches unify 
Three Lutheran churches, holding communion with Episcopalians. were formed when various ethnic, simultaneous conventions in three "I hope we can look ahead with immigrant churches combined states, voted nearly unanimously the sense that we're not going to do during the last century. Wednesday to form a 5.5 million­this just to get the job done, but to The formation of the new Lut­member body that will be the na­manifest the (Holy) Spirit's work heran church would gather 98.8 tion's largest Lutheran church. being done in the church today," percent of all Lutherans in the 
The church in United States into three national
conventions said ALC Bishop L. David Brown of California, Kentucky, and Ohio also Iowa. 
bodies, and the new church would voted to establish a 70-member There are I8 different Lutheran become one of the top five Protes­commission to iron out doctrinal groups in the United States, which tant churches in the country. and structural details of the new, as yet unnamed, church. 
The agreement was reached by delegates representing the three 
. .. Priests 

churches -the American Lutheran Church, the Lutheran Church in America, and the Association of more informed, then I assumo that I
continuedfrom page 1 

Evangelical Lutheran Churches. will be involved in more things." As 
The delegates representing 2.3 envision it nor is it the way we func­Joyce's assistant, Beauchamp does million church members nearly un­
tion with each other. Ican see where various types of financial analysis, animously passed a resolution on people perceive it that way, but they and utilizes his legal background by the timetable for the new church, to perceive it incorrectly." doing legal research and looking begin functioning)an. I, I988 ifsub­over contracts. Additionally, he
Beauchamp added that "our roles sequent biennial conventions ap­in the administration have put us in serves on and has chaired the ad-hoc
•• • • prove the work of the 70-member Dorm Renovation Committee,
an awkward situation, because I commission. don't consider myself to be an 'heir' which finances dorm renovations,
• They also overwhelmingly passed stipulates summer use of the hall~.
to anything. After all, what happens a resolution to discuss with the Lut­and provides for dorm maintenance.
in this university in the next five or

• with the Nazz 
heran Merger Commission in ten years is beyond my control." Beauchamp is also involved with a Canada relations between the two similar committee which allocates
Like Tyson, however, Beauchamp 
! ~ =-----= 

~. proposed churches. funds for the renovation of the
J considers his present post to be "an All three conventions also were evolving-type thing as I academic buildings on campus.events this year considering a plan to allow joint By working as an accountant, a
develop and become more and \ 

lawyer, and a university professor
•
• 
_\ 
before his ordination to the priest­

"Papa & Mama Do The Cooking" . 
• 
hood last April, Beauchamp feels

• is encouraged •• • 
that he has a background which will 

Francesco's Famiglia 
be quite useful to him in his present 
featuring 
administrative role. He echoes Rev . 

Restaurant 
FOUR SEASONS PIZZA 
Tyson's desire to continue teaching
to attend a meeting : 
in the business college "for as long as
The Original Southern Recipe 
I possibly can," and believes that

• 
Lasagna, Home-made Spaghetti,
in the Nazz 7:00pm 
teaching and living with students

Chicken Cacciatori, Veal Parmigiana 
• 
• 
(he is presently in residence in All Varieties of Sandwiches 
Alumni Hall, and served as Assistant 

(Francesco was chef at Notre Dame for 21 yrs.) 
Rector in Morrissey two years ago) 
provides him with "an invaluable
: Tonight Thurs. Sept. gth : 

1636 N. Ironwood
277-6155 277-6156 
opportunity" to serve the Univer­sity. 

"WE DELIVER" 
······························~ 



j:elcome Back to Notre Dam 
Ayres wants to help you get the school year off to a good start with this $5 00 merchandise coupon You may use the coupon for any purchase (see coupon for details) of $20 00 or more at any Ayres Store September 9 through September 30 We look forward to seeing you at Ayresi 





Business & Technology 
Wall Street Update 
The stock market, buffeted by continuing rumors of problems in the world financial system, posted a small gain in a ses­sion of wide swings Wednesday. Brokers said that the market was meeting with some resistance after the runaway rally of late August and early September that produced a gain of 148 points in the Dow Jones industrial average on record trading volume. Takeover news and speculation accounted for some of the day's biggest individual 
advances. The Dow jones average of 30 industrialS, up about 10 points at its afternoon peak, closed with a 1.47 gain at 915.75. Volume on the New York Stock Exchange reached 77.96 million shares, up from 68.96 million Tuesday. -AP 
'~~-@lEI·-·=··= f -=-!-~~-. 

i\rtht·s-1JrisQ Jub 
We look forward to seeing
I 
I last week's new faces I 

1.Euerubnllu Dlltlcnme
I
1 Tonight after 9pm 
i • 2 for 1 Mixed Drinks * I •75~ Domestic Beer (cans) • 

*Artio's 
~ 
ND 
G> 
Cleveland Rd. 
Q. 
.... 
"' 
" 





$39.95 
~ 
Scientists find oldest fossils 
From Universal Press Syndicate 
In a desolate African wasteland so rich in fossils that in places they literally crunch underfoot, scientists have discovered the remnants of what seems to be the oldest known direct ancestor of man. 
The fragments of thigh and skull bones, taken from the Middle Awash River Valley of Ethiopia, have been shown by radioactive dating of the sediment they were found in to be 4 
million years old. That is 300,000 years older than "Lucy," the previously oldest known fossil hominid. 
The bones, uncovered just 40 miles from where Lucy was un­earthed in 1974, have been tentatively identified as Australopit­hecus afarensis, the same species as Lucy. 
They apparently belonged to creatures who walked upright, stood about 4 1/2 feet tall, and had brains somewhat smaller than those ofchimpanzees. 
Anthropologists). Desmond Clark 
and Tim White of the University of 
California at Berkeley, who an­
nounced the find in June, say it 
provides further cont1rmation that 
human beings developed upright 
posture long before they developed 
enlarged brains. The two traits were 
once thought to have evolved to­
gether, but Lucy and other fossils of 
her species have upset that notion. 

(INCLUDES KEG OF BEER, TAP, 50 cups, ICE, BAG & SALES TAX)* 
Your Choice BUDWEISER, BUDLIGHT, BUSCH, NATURAL, STROH'S 
,,~m~~ ,IJ 'ii
w 4R\\\ ~««« The BeerCo. 

287-1067 
Michelob/Mich Light $45.00 Heineken $68.00 We have posters and signs · for your room . *(Does not include any deposit charges) 

Daily 8:30-4:30 Sat. 10-12 

(NEW CONVENIENT HOURS) 
jay Luo,12, is awarded his diploma in graduation ceremonies at Boise State Universi~}'. (Universal Press Synd­icate). 
Grad school next 

for twelve-year-old 
From Universal Press Syndicate 
The diminutive figure of the potential science superstar was all but swallowed up by his academic robes, and his youthful mien masked the impressive intellect that had earned him the right to march with his peers. But on graduation day at Boise State University, 12-year-old Jay Luo, the American-born son of Taiwanese parents, became the youngest college graduate in the his­tory of the United States. 
Jay graduated cum laude in three years, majoring in mathematics, taking extra work in physics and computer science, and finishing with a 3.5 grade point average. He 

Dine among the antiques and enjoy our view of the new downtown! 
Reservations Appreciated 234-9000 121 South Niles South Bend 
Juvenile Corrections Project 
S. T. E. P. 
Mandatory Organizational Meeting 
for All 
OLD andREW 


Tutors 

7:00pm Room 2D LaFortune Tonight, Thursday September 9th 
entered the unusual program in 1979 after his father, a computer en­gineer, read an article about teach­ing gifted children by William Mech, a BSU mathematics professor who later became jay's advisor. 
At a pre-graduation press con­ference, he revealed to inquiring reporters that he has a Pac-Man ap­petite for problems in higher mathe­matics, but also has interests more typical of a 12-year-old --includ­ing the Saturday morning television 
cartoons. 
The next step for Jay will be to en­ter a graduate math program at Stan­ford. The Luo family, which includes a younger sister and brother, will move to California to be near by. 




Thursday, September 9, 1982-page 7



Editorials 
Censorship sports shallow face 
While at the downtown South Bend Library recently I picked up a copy of a free publica­tion they occasionally have on the check-out desk, TheNeighborhood News. Usually I take a cursory glance at it and file it, but this time I became very interested by a "commentary" about a new "action group" by one who ob­viously is one ofthe founding members. 
Tim Neely 

My Turn 

He begins by stating the premise behind his group: to return America "to what it used to be." I've bc;en hearing that phrase a lot in the last couple of years; Ronald Reagan won 51 percent of the vote in 1980 by using the similar catch phrase, "Let's make America great again." I don't mind making America "great again," if it ever wasn't (when did America magically become un-great, anyway?). The problem rests in how this new group perceives what is wrong with America and, worse, how they .plan to correct these problems. 
The group calls itself the C.A.P. (Citizens Against Pornography). I think they got their impetus from the recent conversion of the Chippewa Drive-in just south of South Bend into an X-rated theatre. Somehow this man feels that pornography and anything they con­strue as such are the most evident tangible evidence of the decline and fall of America. I feel everyone is entitled to his opinion -in America, we have that right -but when one reads what their ultimate plans are, one won­
ders how much respect they really have for 
the freedoms on which America is based. 
To quote directly from the article: "What is 
C.A.P. going to do? Just this: Close down por­nography shops, take immoral books offofthe book shelves in stores, public libraries and public schools. Take immoral acts off of the billboards, and out of the newspapers everywhere. Finally, we will close down the X and XX rated theaters across America." Just who does this group think it is, appointing it­selfmoral judges ofall South Bend -and all of America, for that matter? Their plans can be described by one word: censorship. 

I'm sure they don't see it as such, but anyone who attempts to "make America what it used to be" by book-banning, closing down theaters and bookstores, and watching over newspaper and magazine content is going back a wee bit too far-to the 1600's and the days of the Puritans and witch hunts. Were things really better then? Furthermore, who decides what is immoral or pornographic and what is not? I hope it isn't this group. Why, they would consider Webster's Dictionary, the evening news, and many other American institutions "immoral"! 
While they certainly have a right to exist and voice their opinions, the C.A.P. does not have a right to impose its views on others. If they don't like pornography, let them set an example in their own families and churches, but don't let them end our constitutional freedoms of religion, the press, speech, and expression for the sake of a few self-decided "dirty" books and ads. 


Faith builds on premises and postulates 
How can a guy possibly attempt answers to such broad, subjective•questions as, "What is happiness?" and "What good is faith?" I like to refer to the kind of thinking to be done in this column, as practical philosophy. Since the author's formal background in the area con­
sists only of a few introductory philosophy and ethics courses, practical thinking is the only philosophy he is capable of. 
David M. Schorp 

Chautauqua in Faith 
Practical philosophy, then, does not deal in formal logic or abstract terminology but is on­ly an informal communication of ideas which stem from the author's observation ofsociety as he has seen and sees it in his everyday ex­periences. In some ways a lack offormal train­ing can be a drawback, but perhaps this practical, informal manner ofobservation and communication lends this column more relevence and meaning. 
To enable the description of any broad, conceptual field of thought, a foundation, or frame of reference must first be established. This is often done in the sciences in the form of postulates, which are preliminary assump­
tions accepted without proof. This is because: 
1) Postlates cannot be proven, 
2) Postulates work or are observed in practice, and so 
3) they provide a convenient and insightful oflooking at things. 
The first postulate: We humans are in­
secure and need affirmation. People are social 
beings -much of our everyday experiences 
and so,much of our sense of fulfillment in­
volves our interaction with others. 
We need to love, to be loved, and to feel 
that we are living a worthwhile life. Doesn't 
the concept of love imply relationships with 
other people? And don't these needs express 
themselves through our want for attention, 
our need for feeling accepted? 
Those of us in college are especially aware of this kind of yearning that comes from our being young, energetic, intelligent, and ready and eager for relatonsips with the opposite sex. There will never again be a period in our lives when we are surrounded by so many others like ourselves. 
So we feel very intimately our presence in and relationsip to the people around us. Again, in short, we want to feel that we're living good lives. How do we answer ourselves? 
The second "postulate" will start with a divergence into American society. The first time I heard a philsophy teacher say to the class,"American society is sick," I was pretty offended. What evidence did he have? 
But wait! we say. America offers its citizens so very much, even to the extent that many things can easily be taken for granted. We have one of the highest overall standards of living in the world. 
The vast majority of us have never had to worry about food or shelter, or been incon­venienced by a lack of electricity or water. 
How does the strength of our economy compare with others? The most important right(privilege) that this country has to offer is freedom ofthought and expression. 
This freedom is essential in the considera­tion of how we decide for ourselves the path toward security and happiness. 
Don't the notions of freedom and free will depend on and imply that there are decisions to be made between good and bad? Freedom of thought and expression includes the pos­sibility ofour being influenced by ideas which aren't necessarily healthy or "loving," ideas of others who also share in our freedom. 
The second postulate might now be sum­marily stated as this: because of the very freedom with which we are able to think, express ourselves, and be influenced, American society can misguide us in our search for happiness. 
As our American environment is a materialistic one, advertising comes im­mediately to mind as a means for our mis­guidance. 
(Wilson Bryan Key's book, Subliminal Seduction: ad media's manipulation ofa not so innocent America, reveals how profusely sex is subliminally inserted into magazine and 
T.V. ads.) To what extent are our materialistic influences responsible for the philosophy in­structor's list ofevidence? 
What other "guidance systems" does a hungry heart have? (This will be discussed in a soon to come column.) But now, I believe, the foundation can be set. This column's third premise will most accurately be described as a theorem, because the rest of the column will be spent trying to prove it. And it is simply yet powerfully this: the most fundamental andes­sential form of guidance an individual has is his faith. 

Clothes (and a shave) make the man 
Ofall thepublic figures I've ever seen, Yasir Arafat suffers most from what he looks like. How does he manage to look as if it's always been four days since he shaved? He never has a real beard and he's never clean-shaven. He just looks scruffy all the time. 
Andy Rooney 

A Few Words 
To correct this lack ofimpression he's made on most of the world, there's something else Arafat ought to do after he shaves. He ought to ge himself a good public relations man to im­prove his image. Polls show that the American people are divided about whether it was right for the Israelis to destroy the Lebanese city of Beirut to drive out the Palestine Liberation 
Army that was holed· up there. With a little good public relations, Arafat could have had 90 percent of all Americans demanding that the Palestinians be given a homeland of their own again. 
Menachem Begin is more popular in America than Arafat. It isn't easy to come in second to Begin in a popularity contest, but Arafat has managed to do it. 
Now that the PLO has left Beirut and Arafat is in Greece, he has sworn to continue his ter­rorist activities against the Israelis and against everyone who ,helped them in their recent of­fensive. This is going to get Arafat nothing but trouble, and it won't get the Palestinians a homeland. Imagine how much better off they'd be ifArafat issued a statement like this: 
"I want to take this opportunity to congrat­ulate Menachem Begin and the Israeli Army on their victory over the PLO. The better army won. We now hope that the Israelis can find it in their hearts to allow my people to have a land of their own so that they will no longer be the homeless wanderers of the world. Jews and Palestinians are, after all, }?oth Semitic people. Some of my best friends are Jews. Shalom. Yasir Arafat." 
A statesman-like statement of that type would have all the world feeling sorry for 

Editorial Board 

· Yasir and his Palestinians. He could have erased the picture the world has of them as bomb-throwing terrorists and replaced it with one that evoked sympathy. All through history there have been public figures who looked just right for their job and others who looked all wrong. Winston Chur­chill, for example, looked perfect. Even Adolf Hitler was perfect in his own way. Ifyou were going to cast a character to play the most evil man in all history, you wouldn't change a hair on Hitler's mustache. George Washington looked like the Father of a Country if anyone ever did, and Albert Einstein looked like a mathematical genius. Walter Cronkite had the perfect face for a television news anchorman. Arafat just doesn't look right. He looks as if he just took a four-day, nonstop airplane ride and needs a shave and some clean clothes. He ought to get a fresh start in his new home in Greece, and he could begin by buying himself 
a razor. I hesitate to suggest it but he might even consider a Sheik Injector razor. 
Copyright 1982, Chicago Tribune 


Department Managers 


Tbe Obrerz•er is an independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not neces~arily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news i~ report· ed as accurately and as objcdivcly as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a maJority of the Editorial Board. Co.nmentaries, opinions and letters arc the views of their authors. Column sp:tce is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of vJrying opinwns on campus, through letters, i> enwun.ged.  /:t/i lor i 11 Chief .lltllltlgin.fi Ftlllor. F.n·utlit•c .\cws J:tlilor. S.\tC Sew> hlilor \{JOI'Is l:"tl ilor Ftliloriill., J:tlilor Fcolurcs hlilor  .... Michad Monk Hyan Vn lkrknH>l'~ ... 1\.elli Flilll Margaret l'o~moe ...<:hri~ Needk~ .. Paul ,\ld;inn Tari 1\rown  liusiness Jlanager .. . ................... Tony Aiello Cunlruller .. ..... Eric S<.:hulz .·ttlt•erlisins .Hanager ......................Chri~ Owl·n l'rocltu·tion Manager .. . ... Maura Murphy Circu/alilm Jfmutger .. . .. ... Hay ln~lin S)'slems .Hanilger. .... llnu..T Oakky  
P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) l_W-HO:\  !'bolo l:"tlilor ..  ......... Hachd 1\lounl  Founded November J, 1966  

~------,-----~-----' 
I 
r 
I 
I 





~~()fitS~l~~~,..~i~e~S~============================T=hu=r=sd=~='=se=prte=m=b=er=9=,I=9=8=2==p=a=ge=s
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
...Line
The. Notre Dame women's volleyball SaintMary'S tennisteam, which finished 1Oth in the 
team begins its 1982-83 season tonight against IUSB. The match nation in Division III last year, won its first match of the fall season begins at 6:30 in the ACC Pit. -The Observer last night. The Belles defeated host Valparaiso, 8-1. Saint Mary's travels to Illinois-Chicago Circle for a match tomorrow. -The Ob­server
Football ticketdistribution continues today at Gate 3 of 
continuedfrompage 12 

the ACC. Freshmen who purchased tickets during the summer may ability and is very versatile. He couldpick up their tickets today until 5 p.m. Tickets who did not order play any position on ourline. He cer­tickets may purchase leftover student tickets on a first-come, first­Aerobics exercise classes, sponsored by Non-Varsity Ath­tainly is a contender for an All­served basis tomorrow between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. at the second floor letics, begin this week in the ACC Concourse Gym 1. Student classes America spot, but we will just let histicket windows. -The Observer nieet 4-4:30 p.m. on Monday/Wednesday or Tuesday/Thursday. 
performance on the field do the There is a $3.00 fee for the seven-week course. Classes for faculty 
talking for that. Saint Mary'S tennis team, which finished 1Oth in the and staffmeet 5:15 to 5:45p.m. on Tuesday and Thursday. The fee is 
"Experience has made Randy Ellis nation, in Division III last year, won its first match of the fall season 112:oo for seven weeks. Some classes begin today. -The Observer a better player," continues Selmer.
last night. The Belles defeated host Valparaiso, 8-1. Saint Mary's "He has been more dominant andtravels to Illinois-Chicago Circle for a match tomorrow. -The Ob­stronger this fall. The summer 
server 

weightlifting and _ quickness
NCAA Volunteers for Youth wm hotd an or­
programs have helped him a goodInterhall football signups will take place this week, ganizational meeting for all student-athletes tonight at 7 in th ACC deal."
football auditorium. Volunteers for Youth, sponsored by the NCAAbut will be conducted within the individual dormitories. For more The return of incumbent seniorand the Notre Damme athletic department, matches students withinformatio.n, contact your dorm's athletic commissioner or call the center Mark Fischer also has left Sel­
youth in the community. The Observer 
new 24-hour NVAphone line at 239-51 QO: -The Observer mer pleased with the prospect for an outstanding unit. After having an off­Notre Dame basketball greats Adrian Dantley, season battle with mononucleosisKelly Tripucka and Austin Carr,. and 15 other former Notre Dame 
Off-campus studentsi~terested in coaching any o­
(which shed 40 pounds off hisplayers will be returning to the ACC September 18 to p~ici~ate in c teams this fall are asked to contact M1ck DePaolo, the off-campus frame), Fischer has come back im­the Logan Center Benifit Basketball Game. The game 1s bemg or-. 
athletic commissioner, at 234-5556 for information regarding fees, pressively to boost bois weight backganized by Notre Dame assistant basketball coaches Gary Brokaw up to 253.
insurance, deadlines, etc. -The Observer 
and John Shumate, both former Irish All-Americans who will play in "He's doing an excellent job,"the game. "It will be a great opportunity for all of us to help give praises his line coach. "He's quick,something back to the South Bend community and enable loc_al fans experienced and is showing no ef­to do the same," said Brokaw. Tip-off is set for 1 p.m. on Saturday, The women's track and cross-country fects at all ofhis sickness." 
club will hold an organizational meeting on Monday, September 13September 18, just seven hours before Notre Dame opens its 1982 Freshman redshirt Tom Doergerat 7:30 in the basement of Breen-Phillips. Ifyou need more informa­football season. against Michigan at Notre Dame stadium. Tickets are is the top backup behind Fischer af­tion or ifyou are unable to attend, contact Yvie Allmaras ( 1349) orS6 in the lower arena and $4 for upper arena. Tickets are selling fast ter hav t ing sat out last year with aat Gate 10 ofthe ACC. -The Obsf{1'Vffr Rose Marie Luking ( 6896). -The Observer 
knee injury. "All he really needs is some experience," says Selmer. New deadlines have been announced by the office of 
"We certainly want to improveMen's novice creWwill have a general meeting for all Non-Varsity Athletics. Deadlines for grad football, the golfteam tour­from last year's performance on thenew members at 8:30 tonight in the LaFortune Ballroom. If there are ney, men's interhall soccer, outdoor volleyball, and co-ree water offensive line and I think that our off­any questions, contact John Williamson ( 6 709), Tom McKenna polo are Tuesday, September 14. The deadline for entry in the inter­
season programs have helped all of hall cross-country meet for men and women is September 21. -The( 1800), or Greg Larkin (3272). -The Observer the linemen with their strength and 
Observer 

quickness," concludes Selmer. "But we can never be self-satisfied. We
The Martial Arts Association of Notre Dame will hold A road run for women, the first ever in South an organizational meeting today at 6:45p.m. in room 219 of the 
just have to go out there and hit in 
Bend, will be held this Sunday, September 12, at 2 p.m. on the Saint Rockne Memorial. Any students, faculty, or staff, beginning or ad­
order to give our offense the oppor­
Mary's campus. The five-kilometer event will be sponsored in partvanced in any martial art, are invited to attend, especially those in­on 
tunities for scoring." 

by the Saint Mary's Athletic Department. More information Technique and learning will stillterested in teaching. For further information, contact Jerry (8241) 
registration fees, prizes, etc., can be obtained bycalling 272-7565. ­or Mark (7683 ). -The Observer The Observer 
be significant, but look for a lot more blue-collar physical labor from the offensive linemen this year. 
, 

The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However, classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid, 


Classifieds 
either in person or through the mail. 
......./ ... ··········································· 

······························································· 
NEEDED-3.0 to 4.6 cubic ft refrigerator; HELP! My parents have moved and won't Will trade 2·4 Mich. GA's for 2-4 Pitt GA's HELP! I NEED 4 TIX FOR THE MIAMI A-Frame•I CALL2244 tell me the forwarding address until I can Call AL3543 GAME SO MY DAD'S DRUNKEN A-Frames/
NOTICES 

come up with 2 Miami GA's and 1 Miami BUDDIES CAN JOIN IN THE FUN WITH A-Fr.,....I student ticket. If you can help me out, call Desperately need 2 PURDUE GA's HIM. CALL DAN 4603. NAME YOUR
,____II 
Tim at x8631. Thanks! Parents want to see the Irish Please help PRICE. IMPROVE YOUR GRADES! Research 
FOR SALE Call277-7415. hey, who's that guy with Steve ?? 
catalog-306 pages ·10,278top•cs-Rush 1.....-------------' N~~ci ~~~ ~t~,i;;~; ii~k~; i~r Mi~n'i9~~ .(:~,, NEED ON!i MIAMI GA TICKET. CALL 
John x3554. NEED 2 GA OR STUDENT TIX FOR HA~ILAT1527 hi cindy and kathy -you oh and pn gals
$1.00 to Box 25097C, los Angeles, 90025. (213)477-8226. 

.............................................................. PURDUE GAMEl! CALL MARTHA 3727 are just too cazh .. 
Couch lor sale. Dan 623 Grace x6795 I NEED 2 OR 3 MICH TIX. CALL JASPER AT 277-3276. MOLARITY UVES/1
NEED TICKETS: I need 1 miChigan stu­IS YOUR HAIR GETIING THE WAY 
FOR SALE La Petitte Larousse Perfect FOOTBALL FANATIC FROSH WANTS dent tix, three purdue GA's. Please call 
OF YOUR STUDIES?? CALL MICHOLE for serious French stu-dents. $20, bought BRIAN at 1064.$$$$$$$ 

PURDUE-ALUMNUS DAD TO SEE HISHelp! Mom & Dad are coming lor their 1st 

FOR A HAIRCUT TODAY! ONLY $4 FOR What do you think of the comics in the Ob­
new for $40. Nick 1434 ALMA MATER BEATEN. )NEED 1 OR 2
GUYS AND $6 FOR GIRLS BEST TO game in 4 years! I'll buy or trade tor 1 or 2 ....................... .............. 
server? Isn't it alck? Don't you wish CALL AFTER 3 AT 7850 student or GA MICHIGAN tix. Please call BIG BUCKS!II FOR TWO PENN STATE Molarity was back? Well, II !all
GA TIX. CALL JULIE 2724 1977 MGB, yellow. Good condition, Call 
Jim at3211. GAs MAKE OFFER AND. GET RICH
291-6713 after 5. Weekends anytime. NE'Eorw6',;,iiciili3A'i.ici'A·s·wii.i.iNi3
Learn Flying for $350 Call 277-6726 -CALL 277-4043 MOLARITY: NO OUTLET 
······················ TO PAY YOUR PRICE. CALL PATTY AT 
NEEDED: SEVERAL MICHIGAN AND The third book of that semi-amusing but
77 VW Rabbit XCLNT Condition Call277-1319.
WORD PROCESSING SYSTEM $2995 MIAMI GA'S. ANY AMOUNT OF TICK­rodent-free cartoon strip is out. More car­
6726 64K Microcomputer.letter quality printer, ETS WILL HELP. CALL JOE AT 1785. toons than ever before but still only 
word processing software, CP/M, Basic. $2.951! Brought to you by Buy the Book
FOR SALE General admission tickets for 
Call277-7720 $$$''NE'Eo.i:iEsPERArEi:v·3.rix.ro NEED U·M V. ND STUDENT TIX PAY$$ Press. We give you our solemn guaran­
the REO concert on Friday Aug. 10 at 
PERSONALS
ANY HOME FOOTBALL GAME. WILL CALL TOM at232-2533 tee: No r-.ta a no catalPoplar Creek Music Theater. Anyone in­
terested please Tom PAY MEGA BUCKS. CALL MAURA AT Let's face it, without Molarity even
contact Griffin 
. . . . . . . . . . . .... . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .

4594. Doonesbury doesn't seem funny
(1104) ........... . ··············································• anymore
2 GA Michigan tickets: Willing to trade or Stlnkhorn... MICHl NEED 2 PAIR GA'S-HELP! CAll the bestnBw CBitoon on campus.
sell for 4 Miami tickets. Call Cath (SMC)
I. LOST/FOUND 1. 
4435

Need Guitar Strings? Acoustic and KEVIN at 1580 . .................. Electric.Aiso picks and other access. Call ································································ hi molly, mary, greta, and the rest of all Need one Purdue Ticket. Please call Bev 
N LOST: A set of keys LOST: A mega Kathy -67!l(l. MIKE IS WILLING'TO PAY $60 PER G.A. Dear Big K. Bear, you Party Animals of The Freshman
at284-4058 

Happy Ninthlllove you and miss you very 
amount of keys on a key ring with the MICHIGAN TICKET. CAll1589 Twelve !I name tag 61 Dave.lost last Thurs. If found 
typewriter, port. elec., 3-step correct., much. call3673. used 1 semester. $175, 288-9347 michigan student ticket in semor section. Your Little K. Bear BOSTON CLUB Important organizational 
WILL TRADE 2 PENN. ST GA'S AND

call Bill232-2533. MEETING MONDAY, SEPT 13 7 p.m.
CASH FOR 2 MICHIGAN GA'S OR STU­

FOUND-One calculator. Call Gary 1223. LaFortune All interested must a«end. 
DENTTIX. CALLPAUL1817. 

Wealthy student desperately needs ND/SMC DEBATE AND SPEECH
TICKETS

.---....._......._..... __.....----,......... I MICH student tix. Call Dan 6863 COUNCIL Orgamzational meeting will be BOSTON CLUB MEETING MON. 13th 7
BELIEVE IT OR NOT!II I'm a senior and Thursday. September 9 at 7:30pm in the p.m. LaFortune Those upperclassmenmy lather has never seen a Notre Dame

NEED 2 GA'S FOR MICH GAME. CALL Washington Hall Auditorium. Be There! present for last year's organ. meeting
football game. Help make a dream come

NANCY AT 1273 · must attend. Tepics-Mich. game and
true. Sell me your GA or student tickets to DAVE LOVES DAWN I seit.OUsi.v need tiqkets to the MIAMI year's activities. Call mike 277-3276 rt

FOR RENT 

the N.D./Purdue game. Call livie 5238 game or my "family" from NYC will get me two Mich and will pay SMC.
Need GA's any problems. a pair of cement overshoes. I'll make .. ................ . 
megabucks. Please call John at 8478. Flanner 404 is THE room on campus Private room, share kitchen, bath, •ATTENTION NO MENt Maureen "Mo"
youse an offer you cim't refuse, so call I have 2 Mich. tickets in hand, Jwant 4 tick· Marty at 3234.
laundry, living areas with other students. FOR SALE: 4-6 Michigan tickets in Dear Ravishing Redhead, Don't be Kinney becomes a woman today as she
ets to Purdue Let's make a deal. Call Dan 

Walk to campus, hall block to bus, 605. N. various locations. Call Dave at 3673 redundant! Your dreams, hopes & celebrates her 21st birthday. Batten down 
at 8905. GA's only. St. Peter, 288-3942. anytime. the hatches, because this party animal
prayers have been answered (all in one 
BELIEVE IT OR NOTIII I'm a senior and . . ... . . . . . ... . ... . . . . .... . classified)! Call the Irishman at 291-2036. 

from Pittsburgh is out tor a good timet Mo .my lather has never seen a Notre Dame Need 1 Mich. GA or Student tic-Doug Pax Dominus Vobiscum . 

DESPERATELY NEEDED:ONE STU­wiJI be acceptmg birthday kisses at 228 6166Furnished home, 2 blocks from campus. football game. Help make a dream come DENT PENN STATE TICKET. NAME Badin, and if you can't make it. give her a Also country house, 10 mins. from ND. true. Sell me your GA or student tickets to 
........................... DORENE DORENE DORENE Ill When
YOUR PRICE-EVEN HOME MADE call at 2929. Happy birthday Mol the~--'~ ~Pe~due game. Call ~-v'~::........ . Desperately need two GA's now tor Miami COOKIES! CALL JOAN IE AT 2244 will you lake me out to dinner?? (hey, if game. Big Bucks. Call Joe 1469. you're from 5th floor McCandless and 
can 277-3604 or 28&-0955. 
Be with us Next Time, as we find out
RICH FRIENDS NEED MICH GA'S. 

know Dor11ne-baby, get her to read this.
BIG BUCKS for 2 GA TIX to PURDUE whether Big K. can lxlar the SeparationNAME YOUR PRICE!! CALL STEVE 
Need Mich. student & Purdue GA's 289-·thanx)

game ALSO selling 1 STUDENT TIX to .... will Dawn reciprocate with an EquallyWANTED PURDUE Intelligent and Well Thought Out 1553. 
7640 

CALL ELAINE x 7951 Message .... will Flanner 404 get a Clue 
NEEDED: ONE STUDENT MICHIGAN ~~~r~t~iy ~~ ;;;~;(4) ci'A ~~di~i~;~: TO: THE NON-TEXAN OCCUPANTS OF 
.. has Ravishing Red found a latin lover 

TICKET. NAME YOUR PRICE! CALL dent tickets for Michigan game. Please 712 & 714 PE AND ALL OTHER IN-. 
in the Irishman .... what happened at Bos­Ride to U. of ILLINOIS (Champaign) for CLAUDIA AT 4559. call Mike 8728. Need 1 Michigan ticket. Bad. Real bad. TERESTED PARTIES FROM: A FRIEND 
ton's last Organ Meeting . . will the PE 

three, weekend of Sept. 10. Will share ........ -. ..... ········ .···•·•••·. . . .... ... . . ... .. ... ....... . Oh God, do I need it bad. Call 3273 and OF THE TEXAS STATE ANIMAL RE: 
Un-Tex'severmeettheArmadil/o ... and
ask for Nooter. 

usual. Mary 8148 NEED 4 MICH AND 2 PURDUE GA'S · WILL PAY $35 FOR MICH STU TICK THE ARMADILLO will Mo have her Hatches Battened in 
WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR! KEVIN 1770 JOHN 8172 LIVESIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII!II!I!III!IIIIIIIIIIIII!!II 
Badin ?? And what about Brian and Paula 
........ ' .............................................. . HELPIII NEED 3 GA's tor PURDUE 

??? And the Freshman 12 ??? Chautauqua needs bouncers, sound wanted: tix lor e~her the michigan and/or NEED GA's FOR MICHIGAN, PURDUE. GAME. CALL EILEEN 3897 Heading to the GREAT WHITE NORTH? tune In next time for the .... tech, and equipment managers. Pick up purdue home football games. will pay bux MICH ST, AND MIAMI. CALL CHRIS· This weekend to TORONTO? Ride applications in Student Union. deluxe! call matt 277-4573. 1730 Neod-2 GA Miami TIX call Ann 283-7740 needed. call288-3002 
END OF THE PERSONALS I 

The Observer Thursday, Sept~mber 9, 1982 -page 9 
Mutual extends contract 
The Mutual Broadcasting System and the University of Notre Dame announced yesterday that they have extended their current agreement for national radio broadcast rights to Notre Dame football through the 1987 season. 
The announcement was made by Mutual President Martin Rubenstein and Notre Dame Athletic Director Gene Corrigan at a luncheon-press conference held at Tippecanoe Place res.taurant in South Bend The luncheon was held to com­
memorate the 15th anniversary of 
the Mutual-Notre Dame relation­
ship. 
"We arc proud to be associated with the leader in radio sports," said Corrigan, "and we look forward to five more years of cooperation and friendship." 

NATIONAL lEAGUE East 

w  L  Pet.  GB  
St. LOUIS  76  60  .565  
Phtladelphia  76  61  .561  .5  
Montreal  74  65  532  4.5  
Ptttsburgh  74  65  532  4.5  
Chicago  61  79  .436  16  
New York  54  63  .394  23.5  
West  
Atlanta  77  62  554  - 
Los Angeles  77  63  550  .5  
San Otego  73  67  521  4.5  
San Francisco  71  66  511  6  
Houston  65  74  .466  12  
Cincinnati  52  67  374  25  

Yesterday's Results Philadelphta 4, Chicago 3 New York 9. Pittsburgh 1 San Otego 9. Ctnnatti 4 Atlanta 12, Los Angeles 11, 10 tnntngs Houston 8, San Francisco 1 St Louts 1. Montreal 0 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
East w L Pet. GB 

Milwaukee 63 56 597 
78 59 569 4 Boston 77 61 558 5.5 Detroit Baltimore 70 66 515 1 I 5 
67 .511 12 Cleveland New York 70 
66 70 485 15 5 Toronto 65 
75 .464 18 5 West KansasCtty 79 60 .568 
-

77 ~2 554 2 Chtcago 74 64 536 Caltfotnta 
4.5 
65 73 471 13.5

Seattle 
81 20 5 Texas 56 Oakland 59 421 
83 403 23 M1nnesota 49 90 353 30 
Yesterday's Results Toronto 6. Oakland 5 Cleveland 2. Boston 0 New York 10. Balttmore 5 Texas 2, Minnesota 0 
Mtlwaukee 9, Oetrott 7 Chicago 5, California 3 Kansas Ctty 6. Seanle 2 

RESTAURANT 
15 REASONS: Broiled Seafood Platter Charbroiled Halibut Steak Charbroiled Salmon Shrimp De Johnge Charbroiled Swordfish Walleye Pike Red Snapper Trout Ala Mer Stuffed Flounder New England Scrod Rock Lobster Pan Fried Rainbow Trout Gulf Coast Shrimp Stuffed Shrimp Pan Fried Frog Legs 
5:30 Nightly All Day Sunday 100 Center Complex 
700 L.W.W., Mishawaka 259-9925 


Welcome Back!!! 
OUR PHILOSOPHY ISTO SERVE YOU A HAMBURGERTHAT'S BETTER THAN THE OTHER GUY'S. 
ANDWE'RE PUTTING OUR MONEYWHERE YOUR MOUTH IS. 
YOU'RE WENDY'S KIND Of PEOPLE.._. 
I ···········~···~···············I
THIS COliPON GOOD FOR A THIS COUPON GOOD FOR A 
I

1 FREE SINGLE 1 FREE CHICKEN 
I

1 QUARTER POUND* HAMBURGER 1 SANDWICH 
I 

"' WITH THE PURCHASE OF A I WITH THE PURCHASE OF A 
(")
c: 

~ DOUBLE [8 oz.*] HAMBURGER I CHICKEN SANDWICH -o 
(") 
0
0 
c:: 
~ Good at all South Bend Wend.'·,. I 
C3

a "'" \,tltd "tlh '"" llrlll'r <tflct I Good at all South Bend Wend\ •,, z *:\L't \\ l'll!ht hdnt L' lll dct 111~ ~ot. \alid ~\ ith an\· other otter. 
"' 

1 Pk.hc ptc''L'Ill \'llllp<tn "hen ;,rdcnn~ '/!\~~-' 1 Plca,c· prc''l'lll cou-pon when ''rdcring. '/ \o~L~o.'-.'."'"N';,N.·.~"~~.', II 
One unlpt'P pc1 ~.u"tnmL'r __ ~...-~ One coup11n per customer. _ -~-;}.
1
I (llL'L'"'L'. llllll.lttl L:\tl.l .1nd t.lx L'Xtr.l I Chee~e.

01..0 lJ"At.moN-.o tomato extra and ·tax extra 
,, hl'rl' ;ipplil·ahk. 114DU1\G£BS I ''here applicable. 11111U1\GEBS 1
I OFFER EXPIRES: SEPT. 19, 1982 · OFFER EXPIRES: SEPTI9, 1982 . ----·
................................ 
4227 S. Michigan 1821 Lincolnway East 402 Dixie Way North 3401 Lincolnway West 
Guaranteed Delivery Time ! ! ! 
For the Best in Pizza, Sandwiches, &_Cold Drinks 
Speedy Carry Out or Delivery """"""" 
""""""""""".. phone232-1883 ND-SMC checks accepted 

PIZZA 
Delivery 
Sunday -Thursday 4pm -11 pm

836 Portage Ave.~ 
Friday -Saturday 4pm -1 am 


The Observer Thursday, September 9, 1982-page 10 

Chicago Cubs' second baseman Ryne Sandberg Phils won the game, 4-3. See page nine for other tags out Bo Diaz ofthe Philadelphia Phi/lies. The major league results and standings. (AP Photo) 
,..,........, ......, ............, ......,,......., ..., ............, .........., ............................, ~ ! YOUR BSN IS WORTHAN I
i OFFICER'S COMMISSION ~ 
i IN THE ARMY. i 
~ Your BSN means you're a professional. In the Army, it also ~ ~ means you're an officer. You start as a full~fledged member ofour ~ ~ medical team. Write: Army Nurse Opportunities, ~ ~ P.O. Box 7713, Burbank, CA 91510. ~ 
I ARMYNURSECORPS. I
i BEAI LYOUCANBE. ~ 
l...., ............, ........, ....................................., .............,,..., ..........., ........,,,l 
• • 
•
• 

"'-· •• •• 
...Tennis 
continuedfrom page 12 
Irish. 

DeMello, who attended St. Man··s School in Nairobi, was invited .to Junior Wimbledon. but declined due to exams. She has tra,·elkd to Bot!>wana and Zamhi:t to represent her country in tennis. 
Petro cmphJsizc~ thc tlexthilitv of her lineup. "Since we will he ha;ing challenge matchc~ during the sea.~on hetwecn ·plan·r<·· ~he ~ays, "the lineup could change any time... 
Right now the team is listed as Diviswn l, but Petro is petitioning the NCAA tor a Division II status. 
Petro believes her team has a much bettcr chance ofwinning ana­tional title in Division II than in Divi-
Irish place high in Division II tournament 
By DONNA WITZLEBEN 
Sports Writer 

Last season's 1981-82 women's 
tennis team reached a tie for sixth 
place with Idaho nationally, as they 
competed in the AlA W division II 
tennis tournament last Memorial 
Day weekemd in Colorado. 

Coach Sharon Petro's Irish im­
proved their standing greatly from 
the year before when they placed 
20th among 27 teams. 

Notre Dame earned the right to go to the Nationals by coming in second in the regional competition last May. 
Notre Dame's Laura Lee, then a freshman and unseeded, earned All­American honors and a national championship at No. 5 singles by sion I. Because of the limiteo availability of scholarship money, it is difticult to compete with the high­geared Division I schools which have many more scholarships available to them. 
If Petro gets her way she sees no rea.~on why her squad couldn't go undefeated this fall. "We play a lot ot tough Division I schoob," she says "Th.-toughies will be Purdue and e~p.. cially Southern Ilinois l :niver sity: If we play in Division ll this year it is very possible that we could see" national championship here:: at :'llotre Dame." 
If the past records of Petro's players and reams are any indication of how the Irish will perform, then Petro has reason for optimism. 
handily defeating top-seeded Mar­garet Faughnan ofGeorgia, 6-3,6-1. 
Junior Pam Fishette, then a sopho­more, was named All-American by reaching the No. 3 singles cham­pionship match in which she fell to top-seeded Sharon Dunsing from Richmond, 6-1, 6-3. Fishette, one of the co-captains of this year's squad, was aJso unseeded at the onset ofthe 
tournament. 

Lee and this year's co-captain Camille Cooper of Shreveport, La, took 5th place in doubles in the overall standings. 
Needless to say, Petro is "very proud" of her 1981-82 team's ac­complishments and the individual honors received by Lee and Fishette as well. 

~~~~ JQ : ---~~.•Jb~~~~ : ~~~~~ : 
~~, ~?Q" ~, • "1-1--«~~-~ .-</t-: J-·~ ~~· • 
-1~ ~.. ~0 : 
t-~ "'~ ~~ ~· Q"'~ ~ : ~~Q' IS';r~~~~ : 

Bring in their ad. *~~ o.._"~ :
Weekend PartySpecials 

Budweiser 
or $29.99 Bud Light 
Miller or Lite $29.99 

for reserva~ions phone 233-4603 
We'11 B.EA T their price! 
~----------,------------~-----------~
I OLD MILWAUKEE I MicheJoh I Mi11er Lite I
I REGULAR & I I I 
I LIGHT I $899 I $699 I
I 24/1 2 oz CANS I I I 
~ 1·a~t· :!4 hottlt·~ 1 . case cans I


499 I 
1I I I I
~------------L----------r· 
I I I IMPORTS I
L----------.1 
Ir-----------------,I
(}lJAHT SPE~IALS IOld Milwaukee $7.59 I I Strohs $8.49 I I Miller $8.99 I 
I Lite $8.99 I Wild Turkey 86p $7CJCJ $8CJCJ
FinlandiaVodka

I Pabst $8.49 I 
·*************** 
c

~------------~----· 
Offer Good .t'irday9/10 & Saturday 9/ll ONLY!!! 
1I Molson $12.00 case 1I I I 
I LaBatts $12.00 case I L•••••••••••••••••! 
PARTY FA VOltlTES 
... 
... Jack Daniels $7'N 
... 
... 
$5CJCJ
... BacardiRum
... 
... 
-1< Tanqt~eray Gin $WCJ 
... ... -1< 7Crown $5CJCJ 
'''" \IL 
• 
•-jc... • ... 
-1< 
... 
... •• ••• 
... 
-1< 
... 
... •• •
... \ 
•
• 
~-0""~/: 
~~· 
:
• 
: 
• 

Ihe(}~rver======================================== 

T0 d~y=============T=hu=r=,s=d=ay='=S=e=p=te=m=b=er=9='=1=9=8=2==p::a:::::g::e=l=l=
Doonesbury 





The Daily Crossword 


WHAT 
WORD 
IS 1MAT? 
\ 
w~-­

/\
;t 
~l,t }t, ~~~. 
:r ASSuRE vou, WORKING WITH ND 
ECUR.IT~ ASPJ1/Aiftl WILL GIVE HIS I/£R'/ .L.I p&. TO f'~f.StRIJE 
::rv.sTJC..t Ai NO~~ 
0!4,.,~. 
I 

ACROSS 29 US lassie 1 Allege grp. 5 Mystery 32 Fingerprint 
award parts10 A Barrymore 33 Work unit 14 Caliber 34 Table 15 Sierra-leavings 16 Rose's 35 Snoops 
beloved about 17 Hornless 36 Launch cattle site 19 Artificial 37 Bring 
watercourse about 20 Electrify 38 Geraint's 21 Vacillate wife 23 "-Eagle" 39 French coin 
(Lindbergh) 40 Responsible 
24 Ilk 41 Sanctum 25 Interstice 42 Zenith 28 German 43 "A friend 
group -is a...." 
Wednesday's Solution 

Garry Trudeau 
Campus 
•4 
and 7 p.m. -Heritage of Ireland Film Series, "Saints and Scholars", Carroll Hall, Sponsoredby.SMC History Department, free 

•4:30 
p.m. -Mathematics Colloquium, "Dickson in .Variants and Representations of GL", Prof. Clarence Wilkerson, Wayne State University, 226CCMB 

•4:30 
p.m. -Awards, Army ROTC Awards Ceremony, Library Auditorium · 

•6:30 
p.m. -Meeting, AIESEC General Meeting, Lafortune Little Theatre, New Members Welcome 

•6:30 
p.m. -Meeting, Tau Beta Pi General Meeting, 356 fitzpatrick Hall 

•7, 
9:15, and 11:30 p.m: -Film, "Being There",




Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by ND Stu· dent Union, n.oo 
•7:30 
p.m. -Meeting, NDfSMC Council for the Retarded Organizational Meeting, Library Auditorium 

•s 
p.m. .,_. Faculty Recital , Jeffrey Jacob, piano, 


Little Theatre of Lafortune Student Center, No Charge 
T.V. Tonight 

6p.m. 
David Adams 


6:30p.m. 
7p.m. 
7:30p.m. 8p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9p.m. 
9:30p.m.

44 Garden 13 -·do-well 
10p.m..

loam 18 Hillocks 45 Protracted 22 Lastword 46 Small ring 24 Turkish 
10:30p.m.

49 Water tribesman 
sport 25 Bearded, 53 Presage as grain 54 Rapids 26 Mediterra· 
llp.m. 56 Fasten nean feeder shoes 27 Red dye 
11:30p.m. 57 Stringed 28. Boyfriends instruments 29 Diving 
12a.m. 58 An Andrews bird 59 Clumsy 30 Banal 
I 
16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitnes~ News 28 Newswatch 28 34 The MacNeiV!-ehrer Report 
16 M*A*S*H 2,2 Family Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 16 Fantast Special 22 Magnum PI 28 Joanie Loves Chachi 34 Sneak Previews 28 Callahan 34 This Old House 16 Gimme A Break 22 NCAA Football University of North 
, Carolina vs. University of Pittsburgh 
28 Barney ·Miller 34 Housing and Financing for the 80's 16 Teachers Only 34 Evening at Pops 
.16 .Hill Street Blues 28 20/20 34 Inside Business Today 16 NewsCenter 16 28 Newswatch 28 34 The Dick Cavett Show 16 Tonight Show 28 ABC News Nightline 34 Captioned ABC News 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 VegaS 16 Late Night with David Letterman 22 U.S. Open Tennis 22 Quincy and McMillan & Wife 

vessels 31 Requested 60 British 34 Summer 
Stinkhorn 
· guns drink 

61 Kind of 36 Whittier or school: Longfellow abbr. 37 Sift 
39 Lies DOWN awkwardly -Eban 40 Leo's mate 

2 Tennessee 42 Trouble 
collegians 44 Wind-blown 3 QEDword hills 4 Dyed over 45 Make tardy 5 Stritch 46 Novelist 
and May Emile 6 Obtuse 47 A Bradley 7 Vincent 48 Isthmus 
van-49 Quote 8 Babylonian 50 Type type: god abbr. 
9 Reclining 51 Hawaiian 10 Tired goose 11 Newspaper 52 Metric 
item measure 12 Rugged walk 55 Shanty 
*******************************************1*
!Student Union Presents: :
Com€ out to th€
~iorBar 
i BEING THERE i
~ (jRanb Open1nq 
i Sept. 9,10 Starring Peter sellers! 
o~th€ 

i Admission $1 an€W S€ntOR BaR Engineering Auditorium i 
~RIOay S€pt. 10th !!!!!!! *
7 '9: 15'11 :30 * 7. 

S_ports. 
Thursday, September 9, 1982-page 12 

Manta's three goals lead Irish past IU-PU 
By SAM SHERRILL caught in no man's land, fullback Lar­
ry Smith saved a sure goal with a 
clutch clearance. 

The Notre Dame soccer team got 
Sports Writer 

Other bright spots for the Irish in­
its season off on the right foot -or, cluded the play ofRich Herdegen on 
should we say, the right head -last the forward line, and the reserve 
night with a 3-0 victory against IU­showing of senior Ed Graham, who 
PU of Fort Wayne. Forward Mario hit the crossbar to end the first half 
Manta scored all three goals, one a and whistled three shots just past 
left-footed shot and the other two off the right post in the second. 
his head. On the whole, however, the result 
Manta opened the scoring just was nothing really to shout about, 
3:40 into the game. Jay Schwartz considering the caliber of the op­lofted a corner kick from the right position. The midfield looked side to the foot ofSteve Chang, who jumbled for most of the game, find­then passed into the middle, where ing it hard to keep control ofthe hall Manta cut loose with a diving header for any length of time. Also, the Irish into the left side of the net. reserves left something to be 
The senior center forward struck desired in their play. again almost ten minutes later at Perhaps all of this should be at­
13:1 5 off a pretty cross from sopho­tributed to the fact that it's the first more Rich Herdegen out on the game. But that excuse was not satis­right flank. IU-PU's goalkeeper could factory to Coach Rich Hunter after only watch helplessly as Manta the game. Offensive line headed it into the lower left corner. "We've got a helluva lot of 
Then, with 14:03 remaining in the improving to do before we play a first half, Manta rounded out the team like Indiana," said Hunter. scoring by left-footing-in a hard shot "Any good team could beat us the 
Selmer stresses simplistic setup 
off a feed from tri-captain Schwartz. way we played tonight. We can't 
In goal, Gerard McCarthy had a even make a ten-yard pass. By LOUIE SOMOGYI Unfortunately, the learning guard last year, giving him a very Everybody's out there trying to
pretty good night in posting the Sports Writer became a never-ending process -strong challenge. "Both are doing 
shutout. Though McCarthy was score." not to mention a poor replacement well," says Selmer. "Mike has espe­
largely untested in the first half, the This weekend, the Irish will get a Learning and technique were em­for some old-fashioned head­cially been picking up the tackle 
team from Fort Wayne made him chance to show their stuff against phasized for Notre Dame's offensive knocking down in the trenches. position very well, but Barry has 
earn his keep in the second, as he quality opposition. They go up line last year. It was all part of the "When it came down to fourth­more experience at the tackle slot. 
made several nice saves. against Syracuse, Georgetown, and new offensive system that would and-one, we worried too much That gives him a slight nod." 
The closest the losers came to Rochester in the Rochester Tourna­give out complex assignments to the about technique when we should At the strong tackle position, scoring, however, came late in the ment in New York. linemen in order to make the offense have just creamed the guy in front of sophomore Larry Williams has 
first half as a result of a defensive By Monday, Hunter should have a and its blocking scheme more of an us," stated senior guard Tom Thayer emerged as one of the most pleasant mix-up by the Irish. With McCarthy better idea where his team stands. art. at the start of spring practice last surprises this fall. Regarded by most year. scouts as the top prep lineman from Junior tackle Mike Shiner also California in 1981, as well as a agreed last spring that the com­"franchise" prospect by Sports Il­
Women's tennis 
plexities for the line led to break­lustrated, Williams has been living downs at critical times. "In those up to his potential and has wrested situations (fourth-and-one, third­the starting role from letterman
Petro excited'about fall season 
and-one), hey, we should just blow John Putzstuck. 
them offthe field," stated Shiner. "John is a good hard worker with By DONNAWITZLEBEN year-olds in singles and doubles in (Shreveport, La.), and Cathy Schnell The person who is helping see to fine talent," says Selmer, "He's bat­Sports Writer 198I, as well as the Kentucky In­(Ballwin, Mo.) are battling it out for it that that task be accomplished is tling very hard to get his position 
vitaional the same year. She was the No. 6 singles spot. It is expected first-year head offensive line coach back (after being a spring starter) 
Notre Dame women's tennis chosen to represent the Midwest in that they will split the honor this Carl Selmer, with help from fellow and I would never hesitate to play Coach Sharon Petro has difficulty the National Olymp• Sports Festival weekend, each playing one match. assistant Jim Higgins_ him. hiding her feelings regarding the in '81. She is currently ranked 53rd Cooper,the other co-captain, was "Simplification, of course, has "Larry, though, has adapted really upcoming season. ''I'm excited," she among I8-year-olds in the country 3-1 at No. 6 singles last year and been the key in our redefined block­well to our system. He's very physi­says. And exciting is the perfect by the United States Tennis Associa­played No. 3 doubles regularly. ing schemes this year," he states. "It cal, quite mature for a sophomore, word to describe the rapid growth tion. Schnell posted a 1-0 record at No_ makes it easier on the players to only and potentially may become one of and the spectacular indivdual talent Making a big jump on the ladder 6 singles last year. have to learn half the number of the finer offensive lineman for Notre of the 1982-83 squad. to No. 2 singles is sophomore Laura As far as the doubles pairs are con­blocking assignments from last year. Dame in the future." 
After a hectic week of tryouts and Lee, who played No. 6 singles last cerned, Petro has chosen Panther It also is suited to meeting the in­Experience is much less of a practice, the Irish open the season season and posted a 22-3 record. Lee and Lee at No. I, LaFratta and Fis­dividual skills for each player on the problem at guard as both Thayer, a tomorrow. Petro has had little time (Agoura, Ca.) is the defending Divi­hette at No. 2 and Colligan and Greta line. We are going to feature ag­three-year starter, and Randy Ellis, to decide on her lineup, but decid­sion II national champion at No. 5 Roemer at No. 3. gressiveness rather than just learn­who took over as a regular at guard 
ing on a No. 1 singles player re­singles, and an All-American as well. Freshman Roemer, an ex­ing." late in 1980, return for their final quired little contemplation. At No. 3 sinlges is Mary Colligan, a perienced doubles player, hails from With seven returning lettermen seasons. Thayer, who has won the Freshman Sue Panther will play No. freshman from Bishop Leurs High South Bend's Adams High School. on the line, including four of five Hering Award for the past two I singles, as she did for Shawnee Mis­School in Fort Wayne, In. She was 91-6 overall in high school starters, experience will be the springs as the top offensive lineman, sion East High School in Prairie Last year's No. 1singles player Lisa competition and was named to the major asset. However, with Shiner has been mentioned by the coaches 
Village, Kan. Panther is Notre LaFratta (Richmond, Va.) will play All-conference team every year. being defintely out for the Michigan as a definite All-America candidate at Dame's first woman to enroll as a No. 4 singles this year. LaFratta held Completing the squad this year opener with partially torn knee liga­his position. freshman on a tennis scholarship. a 19-10 mark in that spot last season. are sophomores Lisa Gleason (Oak ments and a broken thumb, both "Tom's strength, of course, is 
Panther amassed a 52-3 high Closely following LaFratta at No.5 Brook, Ill.), and Louisa DeMello tackle positions will be manned by what stands out (he has bench­school career record and many singles is junior co-captain Pam Fis­(Nairobi, Kenya). first-time starters. pressed 450 pounds)," explains Sel­other accomplishments. She placed hette (Liverpool, NY.). Fishette was Gleason played No.4 singles last Junior Barry Young has filled in mer of Thayer, who is the mainstay second in the state singles cham­named an All-American Tast year in­year and held a 20-8 record for the for Shiner at the quick tackle slot on the line. "But he also has lots of pionships as a senior. She also won Division II at No. 3 singles. with converted guard Mike Kelley, a 
See LINE, page 8

the Easter Bowl National for 18-Sophomores Camille Cooper See TENNIS, page 10 starter in the final two games at 


Tom Thayer Randy Ellis Mark Fischer Larry• Williams Mike Shiner 6-5,268, Sr. 6-4, 246, Sr. 6-4, 253, Sr. , 6-6, 258, So. 6-8, 262, Sr. 



