• • .Sly Fox -page 6 


The south dining ball employees are taking purl in a survey offood waste at Notre Dame. All leftovers from lunch will be collected and a final 
Israeli ambassador 
Rafaelpromotes Mideast peace 
VOL XVI, NO. 122 the imkpendent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint rna.y's WEDNESDAY, MARCH 31, 1982 
Mexico students criticize alloted funds 
By SONYA STINSON 
StaffReporter 

The resolution ofMiddle East con-. flict will depend upon resisting Soviet influence, reducing the arms build-up, and strengthening the peace between Israel and Egypt, for­mer Israeli Ambassador Gideon Rafael said in a lecture last night in the Ubrary Auditorium. 
Rafael said that Soviet military in· volvement in the Middle East is a threat to stability and that the United States should enact a clear policy to reduce that threat. 
The answer to Soviet expansion is more American military presence, Rafael said. "What we need is not more shady arms deals, but more visible American punch,': he declared. 




New occupants named for WNDUbuilding 
ByVIC SCIULLI 
Nigbt News Editor 
The Observer has learned that the Center For Experiential Learning and Voluntary Services will occupy the WNDU building after the present facility is evacuated by its present occupants. 
The final decision on the issue is pending a meeting to be held today. 
Changes in the building are to in­clude a new auditorium where the present newsroom is located, and a coffee shop. Architects have been chosen for the project. The present volunteer services, located in LaFortune, will become class office SP'!Ce. 
Progress on the new WNDU building is reportedly going well and a completion date has been tar­geted for May. 
The move to the new building will occur in phases. FM studio and broadcasting facilities are currently operating in the new building. Henry Kevorkian, Director of Telecommunications at WNDU, hopes to have AM facilities operat­ing at the new building shortly. 
The ambassador said that the Palestinian Uberation Organization is under the "remote control" of Moscow through its purchase of arms from the Soviet Union. 
Rafael charged that the PLO does not truly represent Palestinian inter­ests. Its leader, Yassar Arafat, is "trusted by none, despised by many, and feared by quite a few," Rafael said. "Arafat can be as much a partner for peace as Kadafi can be a candidate for the Nobel Peace Prize," he stated. 
The arms race is an enormous 
See RAFAEL, page 4 
By ED KONRADY 
News Staff 
Twelve students in the Notre 
Dame -Mexico Foreign Study 
Program wrote a letter claiming that 
they are facing an immediate finan­
cial crisis caused by the devaluation 
of the Mexican peso, due to im­
proper management of the Notre 
Dame Foriegn Studies Program. 
The letter was mailed to Mike Ber­
rigan, the brother of one of the stu­
dents, who delivered copies of the 
letter to Professor Charles Parnell, 
director of the foreign studies 
program, Fr. David Tyson, director 
ofsophomores, and The Observer. 
In the letter, the students wrote, 
" ...we receive a bi-weekly al­
lowance for food. All of the money 
we receive from our director, Sra. 
Manuela Santacruz de Leon, is in 
pesos, even though our parents paid 
Notre Dame in dollars .... Through 
no fault ofour own, we are now get­
ting a little more than half of what 
we were at the beijinning ofthe year, 
and it is now extr.emely difficult to 
exist on the present stipend." 
In a circular to prospective stu­
dents, Notre Dame agrees to pay for 
the student's tuition, housing, food, 
transportation to and from the 
country, and transportation to and 
from their Mexican residence and 
the Universidad Anahuac. 
Parnell claims that he has been 
aware ofthe devaluation ofthe peso, 
and in correspondence with Sra. 
Leon, has taken action on the 
problem by twice increasing the stu­
dents' allowances. 

Also, Parnell said that he had not heard any direct word on the problem from the students. "The students are fully aware which office ·has responsibility for them. Yet, I have not had the courtesy ofa direct 
letter." 
The main question the students ask in the letter is "why was and cur­rently is our money kept in pesos, when every Mexican knows the in­stability oftheir currency?" 
The letter says that "Senora Leon answered our queries by stating that she was instructed by Notre Dame to drop her dollar account here be­cause it was too complicated, with all the conversions from dollars to pesos, to be worth the trouble of maintaining it." 
"Can it possibly be that because of a few more entries in a bookkeeper's ledger, the security, not to mention the health, of a dozen students has been jeapordized?" 
Parnell would not officially com­ment on why the dollar account was not kept, but did say that "the stu­dents don't have any idea how com­plicated it is to keep these records." 
The allowance is not given out in dollars, Parnell says, because of the possibility of Mexico putting a halt to the exchange of money -which could leave the students without money -and the "temptation" of the black market. 
After Berrigan had confronted Parnell with his brother's letter, Ber­rigan commented that Parnell was unresponsive to the letter, and had called the students "bastards". 
Parnell told The Observer that he didn't remember calling the stu­dents "bastards", but if he did, he was referring to the tone of the let­ter. 
Berrigan acknowledged that the students "are probably not starv­ing," but that they feel that Parnell is a "senile, old incompetant" who 

"only  cares  about  Angers  or  ln­ 
nsbruck  (foreign  studies  
programs)."  

The issue, said Berrigan, is that "the students don't feel they are get­ting their S8000 worth." 

Adjustingwell 
Handicapped overcome problems 
By CHRIS FRASER 
News Staff 
Remember how slippery the sidewalks of Notre Dame were this winter? The piles of snow and patches ofice made walking to class a somewhat treacherous task. 

WE.DNESDAV­

QCUS· 
Or think of a professor you had who spoke with an accent or even one who wrote on the board with 
about such a teacher. 
Situations like these, which become bothersome to some stu­dents, are magnified 100 times for handicapped students here at Notre Dame. 
Working with various handicaps, these students are perhaps most notable for their ability to stay in the mainstream of life here at Notre Dame -both academically and so­cially. 
To help alleviate the problems of the handicapped Notre Dame main­tains an Office of Handicapped Stu­dent Affairs, directed by Sister Evelyn Booms, C.S.C. 
This Office serves as an informa­tion center for the handicapped stu­dents, aiding them in the practical necessities of college life and informing them about various programs and scholarships which are available. 
The Committee for the Hand­icapped, headed by professor Step­hen Rogers, also represents the handicaped in various places around campus. 
Sister Evelyn notes that most 

illegible handwriting. Many a stu-·handicapped people are "fiercely in­dent has been known to complain ., dependent" and adjust to the rigors 
ofcollege life rather well. 
Specific difficulties encountered by handicapped students are often resolved by the individuals them­
selves,  who  demonstrate the  in­ 
dependence  observed  by  Sister  
Evelyn.  

Second-year law student Bryan Graham, handicapped with two ar­tificial arms, is a good example of a student who has adjusted to the demands of school while function­ing independently. Bryan suggests that the biggest problem for hand­icapped people here at Notre Dame is "getting from place to place" on our somewhat widespread campus. 
Walking long distances between buildings with a heavy load of books can become a daily challenge for the handicapped. 
Students with visual handicaps or hearing difficulties might also find communication to be an obstacle. In this case, every class and every as­signment is filled with additional problems on top of the normal workload, which often becomes overbearing to any student. Therefore, the independence ac­hieved by Bryan Graham and others is an accomplishment of notable sig­nificance. 
On a different plane, a larger problem for handicapped people may be the ignorance ofthe average person. "People are afraid," Graham points out, and their attitudes are of­ten based on insufficient and inac­curate information. 
"Educating people" is the key to 
eliminating social barriers in 
See FOCUS, page 4 




NeWS Briep 
wectnesday,March3t, 19s2-pagez 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
Framed by purple mountainsand a brilliant blue sky, America's space shuttle sliced through the desert breezes of White Sands, N.M. yesterday to crown its longest, toughest and most ambitious test flight. Three down, one to go and Columbiaflies for hire. Weight on wheels came at 9:05a.m. MST on an unfamilar runway, 22 hours past due. The landing ended an eight-day mission that demonstrated Columbia's versatility and stamina in space. The weather was as kind to astronauts Jack R Lousma and C. Gordon Fullerton as it was inhospitable the day before. Skies were relatively calm -a stiff headwind instead ofthe cant:.nkerous sandstorm that made a return Monday impossible. "Everybody in America started breathing again when you made that landing," President Reagan told the pilots in a telephone call. "Our thoughts and prayers have been with you every second that you've been up there." At a runway ceremony, a beaming Lousma said: " couldn't say it was a good flight, because it was a great spectacular flight from where we sat. We had eight days ofa great time and a great spacecraft." -AP 
The House yesterdaylaunched a debate on nuclear arms control, pitting proponents ofan immediate U.S.-Soviet freeze on atomic weapons against supporters ofPresident Reagan's longer­term approach toward mutual arms reduction. To reject an im­
.mediate halt to nuclear arms proliferation "is to give up on the concept ofreduction as well," said Rep. Jim Leach, R-Iowa, one ofthe prime sponsors ofthe debate. "The desire to maintain a freeze and to make it work would be an important new pressure to secure new reductions." But the president -and supporters ofa rival congres­sional resolution -say an immediate freeze would lock the United States into a position of nuclear inferiority. Sponsors of the debate, 
led by an arms-control caucus known as Members of Congress for Peace Through Law, said they hoped the seriesofspeeches would be likened to the first real congressional debate on the Vietnam War, which occurred in October 1969. -AP 
The right-wing National Conciliation Party, ousted 2 years ago in the coup that installed El Salvador's ruling junta, emerged yesterday as kingmaker in postelection maneuvering by six parties to form a new government. A national Conciliation leader said one thing was certain-moderateJose Napoleon Duarte, presi­dent ofthe civilian-military junta, would have to go. Duarte's Chris­tian Democrats won the most votes in Sunday's assembly elections but fell short of a majority. Meanwhile, the Salvadoran military scored a new success in its war against leftist guerrillas, retaking the eastern city ofUsulutan in heavy fighting. Fifteen soldiers, more than 100 guerrillas and an undetermined number of civilians were reported killed in the four-day battle for the nation's fourth largest city. The U.S. government, which before the election solidly backed the centrist Christian Democrats, appeared Tuesday to be moving cautiously closer to the five other parties. Those parties, all right­wing, seemed to hold the upper hand after Sunday's voting. -AP 
Weak steam generatortubes in 4o commercial nuclear units are "virtually impossible" to fix and are causing higher operating costs and radiation exposure for plant personnel, accord­ing to a Nuclear Regulatory Commission staff report. The report, dated February 1982, says the tube problem in clear units also is responsible for about 23 percent ofnuclear plant shutdowns that are unrelated to scheduled refueling. The report raises the possibility ­characterized as an "extremely low probability" -that tube ruptures in more than one generator at a plant cou t ld cause inade­quate cooling ofthe radioactive core, which could lead to melting of the uranium fuel. Tubes are used only in pressurized water reactors, or PWRs, which have from two to four steam generators with 3,000 to 15,000 tubes each. Another NRC stuy based on 1981 data reported tube degradation in 27 of the 47 licensed PWRs, but the new report states the confirmed number is now "at least 40." -AP 
Israeli Arabs staged marches and strikes Tuesday to com­memorate six Arabs killed by Israeli soldiers in 1976, and to protest the government's tough policy in the occupied West Bank. Police said at least 38 Arabs were arrested in three violent incidents in Israel. A wave ofdisturbances continued for the 12thday in the West Bank. Though most of the demonstrations in Israel were peaceful, Israelis were shocked to see Arab citizens flourishing four banned Palestinian flags at a march in Sakhnine in northern Galilee. In the occupied West Bank, the military command said two soldiers were hurt when their vehicle was stoned by Palestinian youths at the Qalandia refugee camp on the northern outskirts of Jerusalem. A hand grenade was thrown in a busy street on the Jewish side of Jerusalem, but no injuries were reported. Demonstrations were also reported in Arab East Jerusalem. -AP 
The first drugto ease suffering from genital herpes should be available in drugstores in 30 days, following its approval Tuesday by the Food and Drug Administration. Up to 20 million Americans are affiicted with genital herpes, a painful venereal disease that, unlike syphilis and gonorrhea, cannot be cured. Dr. Ar­thur Hull Hayes Jr., the FDA commissioner, said the new prescrip­tion drug, acyclovir ointment, "is not a cure for herpes virus infections," but is "a step forward" in treatment. Genital herpes is caused by a highly contagious virus that usually is transmitted during sexual intercourse. It causes genital sores that blister and form ul­cers. The sores heal but may recur for unknown reasons, and doctors tell people to refrain from sex while they have active infections. The FDA said the ointment will reduce virus growth and shorten the healing time for sores in patients with initial infections. In tests, it also significantlydecreased the pain in men, but not in women. -AP 
Partly sunnyand continued windy Wednesday. Near steady temperatures in low to mid 50s. Clear and cool Wednesday night. Low in mid to upper 30s. Sunny and mild Thursday. High in upper 5!ls. -AP 

The Shuttle Shuffle 
One of the most widely-utilized links between the Notre Dame and Saint Mary'l! campuses-the shuttle system-is also a link that is very often taken for granted. Few people realize the financial burden ofthe system, and fewer yet stop to consider what the ND­SMC community would be like without the shuttle. 
The shuttle was started in the late 1960s. Mary Anne O'Donnell, director ofstudent activities at Saint Mary's, explained the original purpose of the shuttle was "to provide the opportunity for co-exchange of students. The evening runs were l;lte!" added for social purposes. Ideally, the colleges were to pay for the daily costs while the evening fares covered the rest." 
Jason Lindower, controller and business manager at Saint Mary's explained that the financial burden of the shuttle system is equally shared between the two schools. "Each year we negotiate the rate ofthe system with Transpo. Each month we receive a statement of the daily costs with the fares deducted," he said. The remainder ofthe cost is split between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
O'Donnell said there have been very few complaints this year. My feedback is that this is the best working system we've ever had," she said. 
Regardless of the lack of complains, the shuttle sys­
tem is not flawless. Ad­means of transportation, or ministrators readily admit they would not have moved that collecting the fares is a off-campus in the first place. 
transpodefinate problem. Few ofthe If one or more of the off-drivers make an effort to en­campus runs were can­force the night and weekend 
celled, the shuttle could fares. Mason estimates the better fulfill its primary task sum of last year's fares at of transportation between Sl3,000. the campuses. 
This very factor Some students complain threatened the existance of of a lack of shuttle the shuttle in 1977. The schedules. The library for in­operating costs for the pre­stance, has no posted vious year had been placed schedule. Permanent 
at 575-90,000. Transpo protected schedules, such as agreed to a 525,000 subsida­at the Circle, could be tion from each school, but 
because of the failure ofstu­dents to pay the fare, Transpo sustained a $21,000 loss. Consequently, Transpo demanded a 24 percent incr~ilSe from each school. Notre Dame was not willing to pay the increase and the evening/weekend shuttle was nearly ter­minated. It was only through a combined administra­tion/student effort urging students to "pay up" that the night/weekend shuttle was retained. 
Regardless of this conflict, no steps have been taken to insure the collection of fares. Students should be allowed the option of·. purchasing shuttle passes, designed either for a specific number of rides or for an entire semester. Shuttle passes would be much more convenient and significantly increase revenue. Allow­ing students ·a discount on these passes would also en­courage sales. 
Another problem concerns the off-campus runs to University Village, and to the Campus View and Notre Dame apartments. These off-campus runs began in January of 1979. An administration survey that same year found that 58 percent of students at Notre Dame apartments, and 84 percent at Campus View never used 
-~-~ 
Design Editor .....Gregory Swiercz Design Assistant ..,...................Joe Flowers Typesetters ..........................Jim MacLennan Tom MacLennan Night News Editor . .............Michele Dietz Copy Editor ...... ................ Diane Dirt kers Features Layout ...........Tari & Joe Editorials Layout....................... Tim Neely Sports Copy Editor .............. Chris Needles Typists ..................................... Laura Degnan Mike Ortman ND Day Editor ..............,.......Joe Musemici SMC Day Editor............... Toni Rutherford Ad Design ................................... John & Bob Photographer ............................ Rudy Perez Guest Appearances .......... Friendly Rabbit Birthday Turtle Ughtning 'n Thunder Orty Marilyn (but she was doing ads) Jazz Festival Peeps Sleep do 
The Observer !USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacaliOn penods The Observer IS published by the siudents of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys Col· lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnt1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 

the shuttle. 
This general lack of interest, particularly by Campus View residents, seems sufficient reason for ND and SMC. to reevaluate the need for an off-campus shuttle. Often the off-campus run turns out to be nothing more than a thirty-minute tour of suburban Notre Dame, without a single resident getting on or offthe shuttle. At the same time, the shuttle is interrupted from its primary task of 

· providing transportation between the two campuses. 
Lindower says ending the off-campus runs is "an op­tion at any point." It is time for a new survey to determine whether student use justifies continuing the off-campus runs. The shuttle schedule is interrupted several times each evening to provide for these runs. Such a survey would determine whether the off-campus route should continue. The vast majority of off-campus residents have their own 
placed in the library lobby 
and at the various outdoor bus shelters. In addition, wallet-size copies of the schedule should be available. Smaller copies would not cost any more than the larger copies presently dis­tributed. The entire cost could be obliviated be selling advertisement space on the back ofthe schedule. 
Students from both schools say the shuttle could be better scheduled to coordinate with the daily class schedule. Later weekend and evening shuttles should also be considered. In addition, Saturday and Sunday service should begin before noon. 
Problems aside, both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students seem to be satisfied with the present shuttle system. One point that several seniors noted was a general improvement of attitude on the part of the shuttle drivers over the past few years. 
Many students seem to view the system in an am­biguous light-taking it for granted when the shuttle is on time, and protesting loudly when it is not. What needs to be understood is that the shuttle is a necessary 
luxury which, while improvements are possible, sl not be taken for granted. The positive factors ofthe sys­tem greatly outweigh its inconveniences, and the shuttle does fulfill its primary task of providing the major link between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
The ~-..btre !Jome S01nt r!\or/> Donc.e Theatre pre>ents 
OuR 

SPRING

GONCERT 
W1!~ guest mUSICIOnS The 6raay Stalker Stnng Cvo Ongml Score by Roger Brrggs APRIL2 3a:Bpm APRIL4at230pm ,'./lAY 1314at 8pm Olaughlrn Audltonum 
Openrng n1ght patrons wrll recerve one compirmentory trcket for each regularly purchmed t1cket 
For rnformatron coil 284-4176 / 

Wednesday, March 31, 1982-page 3
The Observer Women's Opportunity Week 

Reynolds outlines Ministry role 

By MIKE LEPRE 
Staffllt~porter 
An individual's ability to deal with grief and to acknowlegde the needs ofa troubled person are essential for success in the field of minsitry, according to Mrs. Pat Reynolds, last night's speaker for Saint Mary's Women's Opportunity Week. 

Mrs. Pat Reynolds 
Reynolds,a 1955 graduate of Saint Mary's College, stressed that,"if we 
are going to survive in the com­puterized world that we live in, we'd better get more in touch with our­selves and each other." Reynolds also felt that friends must learn to "relate to each other in their joy or to touch their pain." 
Reynolds, calling upon her ex­perience as chaplain at Glenbrook Hospital, emphasized the com­plexity of ministry. Recalling events from her past, she admitted, "I was scared to death at first," but conceded, "once I had learned what pain was, I realized that you could walk through fire and come out whole." 
Designated "Woman of the Year" by the Notre Dame Club of Chicago in 1978, Reynolds currently teaches courses in relationship at Marillac High School, a girls school in Nortt)field, Illinois. As the mother of six, she feels that her tamily life ex­periences benefit her role at Glenbrook. 
While Reynolds admitted that the idea of minsitry can be defined in many ways, she adheres to the philosophy that "ministry involves 

ERA advocate stresses 

unequal opportunities 
By CINDY COLDIRON 
StaffReporter 
Stating that "the ERA is over be­cause very few people worked to get it," jane Trahey, well-known colum­nist, author, and president ofTrahey Advertising, spoke last night in Lemans Stableton Lounge a<> part of the Saint Mary's Women's Oppor­tunity Week. 
Quoting statistics which state there are 43 million working women today, Trahey said that often the identical job for a woman does not pay the same wages as that of a man. It is a myth, Trahey said, that a woman should get less money be­cause her job is ea-;ier. She referred to a recent survery which ranked a secretary's job as second most stressful. 
"Television," !>aid Trahey, "Is the greatest enemy of women because of the stereotyping portrayed and of the large differences in the power of the images shown on T.V." Only .2/ of all women shown on television were professionals co111pared with 90/ ofall men, stated Trahey. 
Trahey said that the "Reagan ad­ministration is taking away more of women's rights every day." Saying that the only place in the United States government that treats women as equal is the Internal Revenue Service, Trahey urged the young women of today to reflect on the fact that since they are not treated ao; equal citizens, they should not have to pay equal taxes. • 
Trahey also advocated that "the answer to freedom for any woman is to get into business for herself," and that the women oftoday will have to come to grips with the current images ofwomen in their own field. 

presence." Reynolds said, "Words can often mess a person up, and therefore just staying close to a per­son in need is more healing." 
Mrs. Reynolds says she has learned that a healer must "fully do as he has to to walk the whole road of pain with a person." Confronta­tions with the spouse of a person who has recently died have led Reynolds to conclude that "honesty and truth" are essential in prevent­ing denial ofdeath. 
"If we are going to live with the hassles oflife, ministry cannot be left to the ordained," said Reynolds. "At some point we are all going to have to do it." Although Reynolds believes that this is possible, she also concluded that many people in our country "are not dealing properly with grief." 
The job of ministry, especially when dealing with a life and death situation, is not an easy one, accord­ing to Reynolds. She warns that people must be able to tell a patient, "I feel what you feel" and tell them­selves, "I can still remain objective." 
Reynolds advises her fellow mini­sters that when the work of ministry 
Although yesterday's high winds and driving rains discouraged 
many from outdoor acttvittes, this wind surfer took advantage of remember that "we can take the the gusts. (photo by Rudy Perez) hurt ifwe walk with the Lord." 
becomes hard to bear they should 
MEETIRG fOR ALL THOSE (IRCLUDIRG ALTIRRATES) THAT SIGRID UP fOR 
!11UIIImll 
Yled., March 31 
7PM Lafortune Little Theater AUendance is mandatory! 
RO EXCEPTIORSUIU 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~:~ 

Applications for 1982-83 
~rn~..rCIDrn rn~rn 
BARTENDERSwillbeavailable Wed. 3/31, Thurs. 4/1, and Fri. 4/2 in the Student Activities Office, first floor, LaFortune. 
Must be returned by 5:00PM Fri. 4/2. 
Aprill-Thurs.-6-8 p.m. 
Haggar Hall Auditorium . 
Guest from Illinois Univ. will share experiences with equipment and legality of drinking, driving, and student involvement. 


The Observer Wednesday, March 31, 1982-page 4 


COLLEGE GJlADS WITH IIATBJSCIIJRCE BACKGB.OVRD 

MAKE TBIJ MOVJl FB.OM COMMONPLACE TO !BIJ SPACE AGE 
Want to move your career from back burner to leading edge without losing job security? The Air rorce has a way, if you already hold a college degree in math or science, to launch your career in: 
ELECTRICAL EHGIHEERIHG AIJB.ORAVTICAL EHGIHEEB.IHG ASTB.OHAUTICAL EHGIBEEB.IHG 
Through an 18-month program at either the Air rorce Institute of Technology at Dayton, Ohio, or at a major engineering university, you'll complete your engineering degree requirements and use your skills in developement research in the technology of tomorrow. And you'll not only get your fast start toward new career frontiers, 
but receive such benefits as SO days paid vacation a year and complete medical and dental care. 
While you're learning, you'll be paid u11 to $17,000 per year, plus your tuition, book costs and fees. The time to act is now, since openings this program are limited. Ifyou're qualified and under age S4.... Contact: 
SSgt. Marty Lazar at 219·233-4747 Call Collect 
AIM HIGH••.AIB. FOB.CE
••• 
members of the University Community o.re Invited to Po.itlclpo.te In 
ALENTEN PENANCE SERVICE 
Wed. Eve ffio.rch 31 10pm 
SACRED HEART CHURCH 





LOVERBOY 
With Special Guest 
~ 

FRIDAY, APRIL 16 8 pm ACC-Notre Dame Univ. South Bend, Indiana Tickets $9 and 10. Reserved Seats. 
Ttckets available al A C C Bo)( off1ce. Robertson's 
•n South Bend and Concord Mall Elkhart Truth. F.rst Source Bank (ma•n ofl•ce) St Joseph Bank (ma•n ofloce). and Suspended Chord •n Elkhart 
Produced by Contemporary with Sunshine 
SMC plans commencement 
day, May 1. 4:00 p.m., immediately followed by
SUSAN O'HARA The annual honors convocation is t dinner in the dining hall
News Staff 

scheduled for May 3. This ceremony A cocktail party at the Century Announcements for Saint Mary's 
includes the traditional hooding, Center will be held from 9:00p.m. to commencement will be distributed followed by the procession and con­1 :00 a.m. for all seniors, their parents tomorrow, thus beginning Saint 
vocation. Ticket distribution dates and guests. Tickets will be sold for for the convocation will be an­six dollars.
Mary's schedule of commencement nounced. Saturday, May 15 will begin with
activities, according to Carol Griffin, junior chairperson for the 1982 

The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's breakfast in the dining hall, followed Spring Dance Concert will be by the much-anticipated com­
graduation. This year's graduation will be held 

presented Commencement mencement ceremonies at 10:30 May 15, with the theme 
weekend, May 13 and 14, in a.m. "Celebrating the Arts," in honor of 
O'Laughlin Auditorium. After the commencement, there will the twenty-fifth anniversary of 
Also during that weekend, senior be brunch and additional tours of nursing majors will participate in the Cushwa-Leighton Library,
O'Laughlin Auditorium. Graduation festivities begin April 

the annual pinning ceremony, to celebrating the library's completion 25, with a reception for seniors to be 
take place Friday, May 14 in the and signifying the end of graduation C-hurch of Loretto. Tours of the new for Saint Mary's class of 1981-82.
held at the home of President john Duggan. The traditional junior/ Cushwa-Leighton library will also be available.

Senior dinner will be held in late A Baccalaureate Mass, preceded
April, with an Alumnae/Senior Mass by a procession, is scheduled for
and Brunch to take place on Satur­

... Focus 
continuedfrompage 1 

Graham's view and he has taken an active role in eliminating the uncon­scious prejudices ofpeople. "People 
rael is the leader in per capita are friendly and willing to help," says continuedfrom page 1 military SJX:nding, followed by the 
... Rafael 
Graham, but often they do not al­
U.S. and the Soviet Union, he said. ways consider the problems of the Rafael hailed the three-year-old handicapped.
threat to peace in the Middle East, It is Graham's belief that ap­

peace treaty between Egypt and Is­
Rafael said. "The arms race is prehension is reduced through

rael as the most important event for
spurred by regional rivalry and un­Israel since the Yom Kippur War. education and it has become a goalbridled competition between in­in his life to teach this to people.

There is reason for hope that the
dustrialized nations who barter arms present Egyptian president will con­The Office of Handicapped Stu­for oil," he stated. 

dent Affairs "should be emphasized
tinue to strengthen and expand the
Rafael commented that the arms peaceful relations between the two in order to make the handicappedbuild-up puts a great psychological countries, he said. students aware of the help they can and economic burden on Israel. Is-receive," Graham said. 


Ifyou're a senior and have the promise of a $10,000 career-oriented job, do you know 
what's stopping you from getting the American Express• Card? 
You guessed it. 
Nothing. 

BecauseAmericanExpressbelieves inyourfuture. Butmore than that. Webelieve in you now. And we're proving it. 
A $10,000 job promise. That's it. No strings. No gimmicks. And this offer is even good for 12 months after you graduate. But why do you need the American Express Card now? First of all, it's a good way to begin to establish your credit history. And you 
know that's important. Ofcourse, the Card is also good for travel, restaurants, and shopping for things like a new stereo or furniture. And because the Card is recognized and welcomed 
worldwide, so are you. 

So call for a Special Student Application or look for one at your college bookstore or on campus bulletin boards. 
The American Express Card. Don't leave school without it:­
Calltodayfor an application: 800-528--8000. 



--~------------------­
-------------~ 
Wednesday, March 31, 1982-page 5 



Editorials 

Another El Salvador article 
Recently many articles and march behind. Yet, when I finish leftists. that response if there is some rain on political end of the provisional coali­editorials have been devoted to the reading them I see more clearly the The Reagan Administration has election day. One wonders how low tion junta) seems to have one great situation in El Salvador. The issue cer­frayed edges of the banner. even accused the Soviet Union of our tum out would be if we had to problem. No one listens to them. 
tainly demands attention. But like There are many groups and many being an outside power interferring in dodge bullets. They seem interested in land reform many observers, I have found it dif­views. The most clearly visible to us the politics of a smaller nation in order Then there's the military, which has and setting up a democracy but no one ficult to keep up with the bombardment are the local groups who have voiced to promote their own interests ... sort never claimed to be the voice of the seems interested in working with of material. their opinions. Some march, others of like what the U.S. is doing. people. According to the picture them. 
write letters and articles, and others The leftists have proclaimed them­painted by the media, the army seems The leftists certainly aren't co­protested Fr. Hesburgh's involvement selves to be the voice of the people. to be a rather tight corps of soldiers operative. The military ignores theirMichael Molinelli in the committee sent down to observe Their claim seems somewhat which is not afraid of using ruthless moderate view. Even the U.S. dis­the election. premature when one looks at the elec­and cruel methods to protect its inter­regarded Duarte's pleas for economic 
Everyday, someone with They claimed that the election was tion results. ests. aid and instead sent more helicopters. proclaimed expertise will publish his unjust. If it was, having such Not counting those who purposely What I find amazing is that there has Which brings us to the people. verified evidence ami logical reason­respected people as Fr. Hesburgh invalidated their ballot (as the leftists never been a denial of this. Those who They've had enough self-proclaimed ing. In these articles, the issues seem verify it could only help the protesters' requested), 60 percent of the voting feel they can defend such actions claim spokesmen, so I won't try to speak for uncharacteristically lucid; the choices cause. population ignored their cries and went that in those Central American them. My guess is that they want un­seem blatantly obvious. There's much concern about the to the polls according to The New York countries such violence in necessary usual things -like peace and food. 
The articles appear to be written as if military aid the Russians are supplying Times. and even customary. As a believer in democracy, I can't after reading them, all right thinking the Cubans who are supplying the That's a good percentage, consider­No one has said they were justified. help but feel that they've expressed people will know which banner to Nicaraguans who are supplying the ing that in the U.S., we can barely pull The government (or actually the their feelings in the recent elections. 
Here's hoping that their rising coali­

Some political types (going from left to right): an extreme leftist, a leftist, a moderate, a rigbttst, ana an extreme rightist. 

How to start stopping  P.O.BoxQ  
Serve the entire community  
Dear Editor: past weekend? There were not even  
The bomh is suduenly on ogy. We are aware, now, of the ef­analysis have led to the movement  any scores! Then, under the subhead­ 
magazine covers and on people's fects of non-nuclear chemical that has just reached its breakthrough  Is the Observer really a student ing, "Men's Softb:~ll," Zahm's vic­ 
minds. It has entered the mainstream wastes, "acid rain" and pollution as into broad visibility. This is not a  newspaper serving Notre Dame and tory over St. Ed's is the only contest  
of concern. What Father Berrigan well. Alier Mount St. Helens' erup­sentimental fad, an overnight sensa­ Saint Mary's as it claims to be? I mentioned. If Mr. Kinney is truly  
was saying yesterday, Father Hes­tion, fine ash blew across our entire tion.  have come to the conclusion that it is going to write about lnterhall Ath­ 
hurgh is saying today. Even Billy continent, and many people had to  not. What the Observer appears to be letics then he should try to include as  
Graham has come out against the consider the effects if that ash had But that is not to say that the move­ is either a biased publication, or a many of the results as possible, so  
bomb. Millions march in Europe, heen radioactive. Atomic weapons, ment will succeed. The odds against  newspaper with inefficient reporters that concerned readers can see an  
thousands here. The Book-of-the­used in any number, would disrupt it are crushing. Even those saying  who do an injustice to their readers. overview of how all the halls are  
Month Club is offering Jonathan long-term life.systems, entirely aside "Stop" say that everyone must stop  Specifically, I am referring to Jim faring in competition.  
Schell's hook on the bomb at cost, as from the immediate blast and radia­together, and that is not going to hap­ Kinney's" Inside lnterhall" column Brian Bartkowiak  
a public service. tion. We are more afraid of the bomb pen. Someone has to stop first, and  of March 30. When first glancing at Freshman YearofStudiel  
now because we know more. no nation wants to do that.  the format of the column one might NOTE: On several occtJSsions  
Reciprocity and verification areWe are also facing the fact thatGarry Wills demanded, which plunges us backmany smaller nations are on the  think that the column will give a run­since the inception of "Inside /mer­down of most of the interhall sports' hall,·· The Observer has printed re­ 
into the technicalities of the SALTverge of ac4uiring their own bomb.  results, however, that is totally quests for interha/1 competitors to  
The Israeli raid on lnt4 may have ex­talks. Mutual challenge on the tine  untrue. Zahm's victories are the only contact either this office or the NVA  
Why all the fuss? Why now? Well, points breeds distrust, not trust.aggerated the time schedule for  men's games mentioned. Under the office with results and highlights.  
in part we owe it to Ronald Reagan. development of the Arab bomb. But  "Men's Baseball" subheading, the Mr. Kinney does not purport to  
Having a bellicose dummy in the no one can doubt that such a develop­The only freeze that has a chance is  Zahm-Flanner game is the only game having attended every interha/1  
White House gives some people ment is in the offing. precisely the one that is called un­ mentioned. What about all the other event. No one can. We continue to  
pause. On the other hand, Ronald realistic-a unilateral one, one that  baseball games that were played this encourage you to submit such in­ 
Reagan's presence there delights does not depend on trust of others but many people, who like to see one of ' ... in part, we on the testing of oneself. Partly we their own kind succeed. So we can­are afraid to live by our own moralowe it tonot give Mr. Reagan full credit. insights rather than the shared com­Ronald Reagan . .. ' monplaces of power. Partly we are Part of the cxplmtation is sheer too self-indulgent to expand or con­passage of time. Evidem:c accum­ventional forces in realistic tenns­Students of ethics have 4uestioned ulates. We now know that the which is the price of giving up our the morality of retaliation on whichbomh's effects arc more serious and illusion~ about nuclear "protection" deterrence is hased. Doctors andlong-lasting than we had ever im­of ourselves and others. The way to physicists have deepened earlieragined the in the era of the Bikini start the stopping is, first and doubts that a nuclear war is win­tests. And there arc converging con­f\1remost. simply to stop. All the nahlc. Theologians are tougheningcerns -over the acciJents and the moral and intellectual energy will be their prohihition on any use of thewaste disposal problem•. connected wa~tcd unless we recognize the lirst horn h.with nuclear encrg), and over the realistic move must be unilateral. Till general ecologictl en· l;lllgerment So, may converging streams of we face that fact, we are just fooling hrought about hy modt"'ll techno!­ourselves.study. thought, activism, and  formation.  
Minority speaksfor majority graduate students and professorsDear Editot have the right to claim that they ~peak I am responding to the article for the ND Community. I was under "Demonstrators Protest Hesburgh the impression that the Notre Dame Participation" (March 25 ) and in Campus consisted primarily of un­particular to a statement made in this dergraduate students. It disturbs me article, "They also want to show the when such a small, unrepresentativeSouth Bend community that the group tries to speak in the name of a Notre Dame campus doesn't want much larger majority. I feel like Hesburgh to usc Notre Dame's nanie someone is trying to shove words in to legitimize a hypocritical eletion." my mouth. Since when does a group of ::!5 Kerin Benner Jemonstrators consisting mainly of College ofEngineerin!{  


Editorial Board Department Managers 
The ObJerver is an independent newspaper publishd by the students of the Editor·iii·Chief.............................. Michacl Monk Business Manager .............................Tony Aiello University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily Managing Editvr ................ Ryan Ver Herkmoes Controller .............................................Eric Schulz reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report· E.wcutive News Editor .........................Kelli Flint Advertisin~ Manager .......................Chris Owen ed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of .\MC News Editor..................... Margaret Fosmoe Production Manager .................. Maura Murphy a majority of the Editorial Board. Co.nmentaries, opinions and letters are the views .\ports Editor ...................................Chris Needles Circulation Manager .......................... Ray Inglin of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and Ediiuria!~ f[Jitor .............................Paul McGinn Systems Manager ...........................Bruce: Oakley the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, ia eocour:1ged. Features Editor .................................. .Tari Brown 
Pboto Editor ...................................Rachel Blouni -Founded November 3, 1966 
P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 {2i9) 239-5303 

-------------------------------~---~­
Wednesday, March 31, 1982 -page 6 
St. Ed's returns with Sly Fox 


-.SHOWC 
Life is aCabaret on stage 
lVJbat good is sitting alone in the surface. It's a fun show, but it's tween the performing audience in
W yourroom? also ironic and decadent." the stage Cabaret and the audience Life isn't that long a stay. In February, Mousseau was in the theater itself." Life is a Cabaret, old chum, faced with the challenge ofcasting The other leading player is the Come to the Cabaret! the show from the 250-some stu­Cabaret emcee, played by Holy 
dents who auditioned at both Cross sophomore and Off-off­The invitation -and the campuses. Alongwith Producer Ed Broadway veteran Frank Gabriele. message -of the hit Broadway McNally, Choreographer Colleen He says he is impressed with "the musical Cabaret is alive at Notre 
Quinn and Vocal Director Anita quality oftalent in the cast" and the Dame this spring. 
Ramker, Mousseau selected 35 stu­six Cabaret da ncers in particular. dents to bring the musical to life. "They are good dancers, good 

The cast, says Mousseau, "has movers and good looking." wonderful energy and enthusiasm. In other major roles, Raul Apor: The Cabaret Girls are sexy and ex­tela is cast as the comical and otic. The romantic leads are engagingJewish merchant, Herr 
With opening night at Washing­naturals." 
Schultz, Bridget Dolan as his in­
ton Hall just two weeks away, the The romantic leads, Sally Bowles tended, Fraulein Schneider, Doon Cabaret cast is engaged in final and Cliff Bradshaw, are played by Wintz as Ernst Ludwig, the Nazi rehearsals under the direction of freshman sensation OraJones and smuggler and Betsy Quinn as the 
seniorJeff Mousseau. Student Players veteran, Mike Kel­sexy and worldly, Fraulein Kost. Mousseau, rated by one col­ly, who also played the title charac­Cabaret will be performed Aprilleague as "one ofthe most gifted ter in last spring's smash sellout, 15-18 in Washington Hall. Tickets student directors to come through 
Pippin. go on sale Monday (April 5) at the Notre Dame in years," has high 
Kelly is glad that the production N.D. Student Union box office and hopes for the Notre Dame Student 
is being staged in the intimate and the St. Mary's programming office. Players production. 
classic confines ofWashinton Hall. All tickets will be for reserved "Cabaret is a show that affirms 
"There the audience is directly in­seats, meaning that the earlier the life," he says, "And yet there's a lot 
volved in the show," he says, tickets are bought, the better the more to it than what appears on "there's no real distinction be-seats will be. 

LeRouxdilutes Louisiana sound 
T e Roux, with their new album Records dropped Le Roux, who then It Was Easy" and "You Know How ..UastSafe Place, has joined the signed with RCA Records and Those Boys Are", both written by ranks ofStyx,Journey and REO releasedLastSafePlace. On this Tony Haseldon, featuring excellent Speedwagonasanother AOR(Adult­album, Medica has steered Le Roux melodies and fresh approaches 
Oriented Radio) group who has on a pop/rock course, stripping toward two typk:al rock subjects, diluted their style to become more away any Southern boogie orCreole success and groupies. 
popular with a larger audience. influences they once had. While this The two most inspired songs are improves some songs as "Midnight "The Last Safe Place On Earth", the Summer Dream", written by Medica title track, and "Long Distance

Ed Konrady 
(which is reminiscent ofChicago's Lover". The former, written byJeff "Wishing You Were Here") and Pollard, has a Jim Steinman flavor "Make Believe" by Rod Roddy, a tale with street-scene lyrics (Sirens rip­
oflost love with inspired lyrics like ping down the street/Irs a steamy Le Roux was originally founded 
Love, can't youfindyour way back southern night/Melting in the 
by producer Leon Medica as the 
into her heart for me? !Stop this heat/lfs bard to breathe, a red bot · 
primary in-touse -hythm section at 
lonliness tbafs slowly drowning summer/Lost in the crowd like one 
Studio in the:: Country, a recording 
me/Like a sea tbafs washed away small number) and searing guitar
studio in Loaisiana. They toured as 
ifs boundary, this approach can work by Pollard. The songstands out 
·theJeffPollard Band, with Medica 
cause some problems. from the rest ofthe album. 
on bass guitar, Pollard singing lead 
Their use ofrock cliches hides a "Long Distance Lover", by Roddy, vocals and playing lead guitar, Rod 
lack ofinspiration and helps gain is a rocker about the joys and painsRoddy also singing lead vocals and 
wide public acceptance. Aremake of ofa telephone romance (not un­playing keyboards, David Peters 

Buffalo Springfield's "Rock and Roll familiar to college stu t dents)done in playing the drums and Bobby 
iWoman'' shows a total lack ofinsight an upbeat, catchy style highlightedCampo playing all horns, flute and 
toward a new version ofthe song, by a Pollard guitar solo. various percussion instruments. 
preferring instead to mimic the The other two songs on the al­After their signing with Capitol 
original in a rather pathetic way. bum, "It Doesn't Matter" Records in 1977, they added Tony 
"Addicted", a banal exercise in the ( Pollard/Roddy) and "Inspiration"Haseldon on guitar, changed their 
art of making AM radio fodder by ( Medica/Roddy) are typical of the name to Louisiana's Le Roux and 
Roddy, features adolescent lyrics album -good tunes, banal lyrics. 
released their first album titled, 
(When you do whatyou do to· Last Safe Place shows both theuniquely enough, Louisiana's Le 
me/Thefever starts to burn/You've potential and the shortcomings ofLe
Roux. They later dropped the 
got thepower/Foryour love I Roux. With their new label (RCA)
Louisiana from their.name and 
yearn) is barely made respectable heavily promoting them, and thereleasedKeep the Fire Burnin' and 
by a catchy tune that will earn it AM releasing of their better songs, this 
Up. 
airplay. 
could be the album that will make LeHaving no_popular success with 
Getting a lot ofplaying time on FM 
~oux a familiar name to recordthe first three albums, Capitol 
stationsare two ~~g;, ~:Nobody Said buyers. 

T
he community ofSt. Ed's Hall returns to the Notre Dame theatre scene this weekend in a production ofLarry Gelbart'sSly Fox, with performances tomor­row, Friday and Saturday night in Washington Hall. 

)oe Musumeci 
Last year the dorm did not produce their annual dramatic ef­fort because ofthe problems caused by the burning ofSt. Ed's and the displacement ofthe resi­dents, but this year they're back with style and a show that promises to be as entertaining as their offerings ofpast years. 
Sly Fox is an adaptation, en­gineered by Gelbart, author of MA.S.H, from BenJohnson's Res­toration play, Volpone. Gelbart replacedJohnson's setting with that ofSan Francisco during the "gay nineties." The plot concerns Foxwell Sly, and his efforts to live up to his name in d t ealings with those around him -in particular three characters who decide to try and outfox the fox. Fox, it seems, is dying, and three friends offer him all the pleasures at their disposal in an effort to get him to make one of them heir to his considerable wealth. The play is a raucous, bawdy, study ofthe resulting deceits and confusion, combining the traditions ofthe Restoration theatre and the wild atmosphere of San Fran at the turn ofthe century. 
Fr. Mario Pedi, the rector ofSt. Ed's, is directing the show; Pedi studied theatre at Stanford and worked with Lee Strasberg in New York, and he has directed several shows for St. Ed's, includingOne Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest and Sticks and Bones. 
Pedi believes that the most im­portant aspect ofhall presenta­tions such as St. Ed's performances and "The Keenan Revue" is that they provide an opportunity for the members ofthe hall to work to­gether on "a project"; something "to bring people closer togeth­er ..." Pedi remarked that most of the students working on the project have little theatre ex­perience, but he doesn't "push them" becaust: they are all volun­teers. As long as he feels that the students are working together and are having a good time, he says, the whole project is serving its purpose. 
Pedi also said he felt fortunate to have been allowed to have Wash­ington Hall, since the schedule of events in the building is unusually heavy. The cast and crew ofSly Fox just moved into the hall on Mon­day and are working diligently to prepare yet another show between the ND/SMC Theatre'sAmerican Buffalo and the ND Student Players production ofCabaret. Despite the rushed schedule, preparations and rehearsals have all gone well and Pedi expressed appreciation for the cooperation 
ST. EDWARD'S HALL
-
LARRY GELBART'S BAWDY FARCE 
SLY 
FOX 

APRIL 1,2,&3 
8:00 PM 
VOLPONE
WASHINGTON HALL ADMISSION: SLOO 
TlCKETSAVAIL...-\81IFR.OMST.WW..UW:Sil.ESID£N7l 
011.-t.TnJ!:"DOOR. 
ofthe ND/SMC Theatre Depart­ment in procuring set pieces and period costumes. 
Sly Fox is a very well-written, funny play, and it is refreshing to see that St. Ed's is back on stage providing entertainment for the community in·a relaxed atmos­phere. The show will be openingat 8 p.m. each ofthe three nights and admission will be one dollar. At that price, it would be a shame to miss an evening ofquality enter­tainment put togetther with a real concern not just or the audience, but for all the people involved. 


-~­


The Observer Features Section 
Wednesday, March 31, 1982-page 7 
What follows are some guidelines for reporte-rs whowish to inter­view me in the future. I'd like to have the report go more like this: 
"Rooney, who wears his expensive but tasteful clothes with a casual grace that conceals his position as one of the style-setters in the men's fashion world, talked to this reporter in his hotel suite where he draped his taut, muscular frame over an easy chair. 
"Considered by most critics to be the leading essayist in print and broadcasting, Andy was disarmingly diffident when this reporter compared his work with that of Mark Twain, Hemingway, Robert Benchley, E. B. White, Walter Lippmann and Art Buchwald. 
"'Shucks,' he said modestly as he dug his toe into the deep pile rug ofthe carpet in his penthouse suite, 'I don't know about that.' 
"Although it is not widely publicized," this article about me would continue, ifI had my way, "Andy Rooney might well be known as a modern-day Chippendale, were his mastery of the cabinetmaker's art not overshadowed by his genius with the english language. 
"On the tennis court, Andy's serve has often been compared to that of Roscoe Tanner and he moves with a catlike quickness that belies his age. When playing with business associates like Mike Wallace, he often makes a game ofit by using his left hand or by giving Mike the advantage of the doubles lines. 


' 'The circus comes to town' ' 

"'Andrew is wonderful to live with,' says his wife, Marguerite. 'He's always good-natured and a joy to have around the house. I can't
T
hursday Noon Live on South Learning. The circus returns tomor­teasing advice given to anyone get· recall an argument we've had in all the years ofour marriage.'
Quad. No, Gilda and the Con· row on the quad near South Dining ting up to leave, such as, "Remember "Rooney'sfour children, Ellen, Martha, Emily and Brian are all per·eheads won't be there. But an odd HaJJ. The witty quips, jabbing jibes, to flush." 

feet, too.
couple of mice named Felix and Os· creative skits and ad Jibbed lines are Though some of the remarks are "On the average day, Andy rises at 4:30a.m. By 6 p.m., because ofcar may be performing along with a all more than enough reason to skip scathing they usually hit their in· his unusual ability to read 600 words a minute, he has finished twophenomenal flea circus, a dog and the caffor a day and join the crowd tended mark and the show is newspapers and Time Magazine. His photographic memory enablesclown show, an acrobatic artist, and outside. 
generally full oflighthearted, spon­

him to store anything he has read for long periods of time, and it is much, much more. Don't go expecting to remain an taneous, unique entertainment. 
partly this ability that makes it easy for him to turn out three interest·innocent ringside spectator. The Before the circus folds up their ing, accurate, informative and perceptive columns each week.
playful clowns are like puckish court tent once again this year, you will 


Mary Ann Roemer 
"Ofhis· friend, Harry Reasoner says, 'I only wish I could write asjesters ofold -nothing is sacred. want to be one ofthose transported well as Andy does.' 
Last year, an Army officer in full to a different and simpler era by the "During our interview, Rooney got several telephone calls. Wil· The Royal Lichtenstein 1 I 4 Ring military regalia was verbally enlisted magic these wise fools spin so well. 

liam Buckley called to ask his advice on a point ofgrammar. ThereSidewalk Circus, a throwback to the imo the ringwith a volley shot in his Even those not ordinarily enamored was a call from someone identified only as 'Ron' asking for advice ontraveling shows of medieval times, direction about the defense budget. with whitefaced clowns and their the economy. Athird call came from E. F. Hutton asking Andy how helanded here last spring, sponsored Everything from the dome to the ad· entourage may be in for a refreshing thought the stockmarket would behave in the days ahead." 
by Campus Ministry, Student Union ministrative was lampooned. Folks and nonca1oric treat this Thursday I'm going to clip this out ofthe newspaper now and carry it withand the Center for Experiential were kept riveted to the lawn by the noon. 
me wherever I go. Ifa young reporter wishes to interview me, I'll 
show it to him, just to give him some idea how I think his report 
should read. There's no sense having reporters waste a lot of time 
getting the facts.


Trivia Quiz XXI 
Copyrighl 1982, ChlCIRO Tribune 

J ast week's quiz answers will tion the "sandwiched" record and 5. "Fly, Robin, Fly" by Silver Con· 
4robably bring back memories of then describe the one which both vention; the second consecutive 
your AM-radio-listening days, as preceded and followed it to the top. number one single by the biggest these were the top ten singles last Your mission, should you choose to disco group before the Bee Gees did week ten years ago. I named the art· accept it, is to name these Saturday Night Fever, based in ist; you had to name the song ...and "bookends." southern Florida here they are: I. We'll start you off easy: For 6. "Respect" by Aretha Franklin; a Those About to Rock We Salute You single also recorded in Spanish and by AC/DC was preceded and Italian for those markets, by a group
Tim Heely 
followed at the top by an LP by a which formed out ofjoey Dee and recently-trimmed band coming off a the Starliters (of"Peppermint 
commercial and critical near-bomb. Twist" fame) and later dropped an 

I. 
America-"A Horse with No At the same time, the second single age-qualifYing word from their Name" from this album was spending ten name. 

2. Neil Young -"Heart ofGold" consecutive weeks at number two, 7. "Brandy (You're a Fine Girl)" 


3. 
Robert John -"The Lion an all-time chart record. by Looking Glass; his first and big· Sleeps Tonight" 2. "I Feel Fine" by the Beatles; the gest American hit, he had three 

4. 
Donny Osmond -"Puppy third consecutive number one more top-20 hits in the next year or Love" single by the most successful gitl so after this smash, but has not been 

5. 
Paul Simon-"Mother and group ofall time. heard from since the last, "Get Child Reunion" 3. Rock ofthe Westies by Elton Down" in 1973. 

6. 
Nilsson -"Without You" John (by the way, his second con· 8. Simple Dreams by Unda 

7. 
Cher -"The Way of Love" secutive album which had debuted Ronstadt; the first album to yield 




H. l1te Chakachas -"Jungle at the top); the most successful al· four hit singles, with all of them Fever" bum of this group's career, which making the top ten. 
9. 
Bread -"Everything 1Own" started in the psychedelic era and 9. "Too Much Heaven" by the Bee 

10. 
joe Tex -"I Gotcha" continues today, with a moderniza· Gees; the only single, a disco smash, 



This week I am offering a quiz that tion in name. . since the Hot 100 came imo exist· I will call "Bookends." Below I will 4. Paradise Theater by Styx was encc in November of 1955, that describe ten singles or LPs that were actually club-sandwiched: it spent six weeks at number one -in "bookends" -in other words, it hit replaced an LP at the top, which three different segments. number one, allowed another song then replaced Styx. Then Styx 10. Led Zeppelin ll; the biggest· or album to take its place, and then returned to the top for a second selling album by the biggest-selling knocked that record offthe top. This time, and was replaced by the same British group ofall time. On its first happens more often than you may album again, recorded by an Illinois· editions not every track on the LP realize, as you shall see. I will men· based rock hand, as is Styx. was listed on the label. 

Oh, I don't know-... just call me humble 
'' A nyone attracted to the rugged features ofhis handsome coun­.1'\..tenance might at first glance fail to observe the piercing intel· ligence ofAndy Rooney's steel blue eyes." 
That's the way I'd like to have an article about me start. In the past year I've been interviewed 20 times by reporters and none of them has started a piece that way. The articles have been friendly and many ofthem well done, but no one who reads anything about him· selfis ever totally satisfied. Do they have to point out I'm often grumpy? Must the reporter point out that my clothes arc unpressed? Is it necessary to say that I'm overweight and getting grey? 


rT 
I .~ 
'I 


SportS ='~~§~~~~e~?.~~~§rv~er~'~§d~Th:=eA;:ss=oc:;:ia::te:;=dP;.:re=:ss~=============W=ed=n=e=s=d=ay=,;:M~ar=ch=3=1,=1=9=8=2==p=a=g=e=8 
'fhe first home matchof the season for the Notre Dame golf team will be held this afternoon, weather permitting, against Valparaiso. Then, Noel O'Sullivan's Irish play host to Olivet College on Thursday afternoon. Both matches will be played on the Burke Memorial GolfCourse. -The Observer 
The Notre Da.tn.e lacrosse team, 2-2 so far this season in non-conference action, opens its Midwest Lacrosse As­sociation schedule this afternoon with a match at Michigan State. Game time is 3:30. -The Observer 
The SMC softballteam will play host to Valparaiso this afternoon at three o'clock The Belles are coming off a doubleheader split against St. Francis on Monday, and are 3-3 on the season. -TheObserver 
Mud Volleyballpairings have been posted outside the Student Union offices. Play begins April 5 and continues until An Tostal's Sunny Saturday. -The Observer 

An Tostal Ultimate Frisbee Tournamnent sig­
nups will be held today from 3 to 5 p.m. in the lobby of LaFortune. Six to twelve male and/or female players per team. One captain is needed to sign-up his/her team, and must list all team members. Registration fee is $3 per team. Competition begins before Easter break. Prizes will be awarded to the first and second place teams. ­
The Observer 

For Ken Barlow, the honors keep pouring in. Yester­day, the 6-10 senior at Indianapolis Cathedral High School who has committed to play for Digger Phelps and Notre Dame next year, was named to the Associated Press All-State basketball team. Barlow, who averaged 1 7 points and 10 rebounds per game this season, led his team to the Final Four of Hoosier Hysteria before falling to even­tual state champion Plymouth, 62-59. Barlow also shot 68 percent from the field and blocked 60 shots this season. Another Irish recruit from Indiana, Marion High School's Joe Price, was named to AP's second team. Price poured in 22 points a game this past season. 
AP 

See BRIEFS, page 10 
IBASKETBALL.dl~:::r 

NBA  
Eastern Conference  
Atlantic DIVIsiOn  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
y-Boston  55  16  775  
y-Philadelph1a  49  22  .690  6  
Washington  37  34  521  18  
New Jersey  36  36  .500  19.5  
New York  31  41  .431  24.5  
Central Division  
•-Milwaukee  49  23  681  
Atlanta  36  35  .507  12.5  
Detroit  34  38  472  15  
Indiana  32  40  .444  17  
Chicago  29  42  408  19.5  
Cleveland  15  55  .214  33  
Western Conference  
Mldwut Division  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
SanAntomo  44  28  .611  
Denver  41  30  .577  2.5  
Houston  41  32  .562  3.5  
Kansas City  25  47  .347  19  
Dallas  24  48  .333  20  
Ulah  19  53  264  25  
Pacific Division  
Los Angeles  49  23  .681  
Seattle  46  25  648  2.5  
Golden Slale  40  32  .556  9  
Phoemx  39  32  .549  95  
Portland  36  35  .507  12.5  
San D1ego  16  56  .222  33  
x-clinched d1vis1on title  
y-clinched playoff spot  

The Observer w1ll accept classif1eds Mon­day through Friday. 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However. classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the bus1ness day pnor to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
e1ther in person or through the maiL 



Classifieds 

Summer Jobs Nat1onal Park Co s. 21 Parks, 5000 Opemngs. Complete In­formatiOn $5.00. Park Report. M1ss1on Mtn. Co, 651 2nd Ave W.N., Kalispell, MT 59901. 
$50,000-$80,000 PER YEAR Are you bored with your job. tired of work1ng for lhe other man. National company based in LeXIngton, Kentucky looking for five distributors in seven-county area. Call 1­800-9594 
Going to SYRACUSE NY lor Easter? I need a ride both ways, share usuaL If YOU need a nde, call anyway. Maybe we can rent a car. Please call K C at 1223... .my grandma's w811ing! 
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED TO ASSIST IN HANDICAPPED HORSEMANSHIP CLASSES. LOCATED NEAR CAMPUSWE PROVIDE ALL TRAIN­ING, YOU PROVIDE THE LOVE. CALL 
234-2263. 
Typing Serv1ce Available Please Call 288-5855 after 4pm 
SUPERMAN II ThiS Fnday and Saturday. Eng. Aud. 7,9:15.11:30 Sponsored by K ofCs 
LOST/FOUND 

REWARD: LOST GOLD NECKLACE WITH CROSS AT CAMPUS VIEW POOL. SENTIMENTAL VALUE. Please call 283-6954 
Lost one pair of orange Lange sk1 boots at Notre Dame circle on March 12 in lhe af­ternoon. If found please contact Phil at 3779. Thanks. 
Lost-Notre Dame Monogram jacket Thursday, March 25 at Semor Bar I have your jacket. It is miss1ng two buttons Call Dave al 8307. 
FoundM Monogram jacket at senior bar Thursday, March 25 You switched 11 w1th m1ne Call Dave at 8307. 
LOST: Tan !weed Jacket. brown suede el­bow patches. Lost before· break 1f found please return to 828 Grace or call John al 6721. 
Dtd someone lose a blue coat m Corby s? I found one that says "IMMACULATE CONCEPTION CHEERLEADERS Call Michael at 289-7414 and tell me what mghl you think you lost your coat. 
Lost-contacts in case Mar. 25 If found please ca113522. 
LOST: Kodak lnstamat1c Camera, has an orange case If found please re-turn to 828 Grace or call John at 6721 
LOST: A GOLD CHAIN AND CRUCIFIX 
AT THE ROCKNE SWIM OFFICE 
LOST ON TUESDAY MARCH 23, 
1982 IF · FOUND PLEASE RETURN 
TO 828 GRACE HALL OR CALL JOHN 
AT 6721-NO QUESTIONS WILL BE 
ASKED. HAS MUCH SENTlMMENTAL 
VALUE 
LOST: A strand of PEARLS Much sen­timental value. Please call Karen at 3773 
Lost: A rust colored knapsack containing a Finite textbook and math, history, and English notebo9ks. If found please call Erin 5749 SMC Student hous1ng--clean, safe $1 00/mo 291-1405 

3-4 bedroom home, furnished, 3 blocks off campus This summer and/or fall Graduate students preferred Call Mr Noe, 287-9636, days 
4 Bdrm N Shore $270 mo totaL Call Patty 3193228735 Call refunded 
APT FOR RENT 2880955 
BE YOUR OWN BOSS •COMFORTABLE 5 BEDROOM, COMPLETELY FUR­NISHED HOUSE FOR 5 OR 6. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. PHONE 288-3942. 
WANTED 
Desparately need ride to Detroit­Birmingham area. Can leave Wad. the 7th. Will share usual. Call5712 or 5481 (SMC) 
TYPING 28 years as a secretary-­excellent typist, retired $1.00/page call Phyllis 259-2501. 
Summer Res1dent Camp Staff needed. Mid-June to early August All positions open: Counse'lors, Waterfront, Cooks and nurse. Contact Girl Scouls of Singing Sands, 15985 S. A 23. Granger, Indiana 46530 219-277-0900 
NEED RIDE FOR EASTER to the LEHIGH VALLEY (or anywhere near) 1n EASTERN Pa. CAN LEAVE AT NOON ON WED. 4-7 CALL MIKE at a 1787 
Need nde to N Y C for Easter! Call Patti 
at8040 

Ride needed to Richmond, VA or Lexi­
ngton, KY for Easler Break Call L1sa at 8160 
ATTENTION GRADUATING SENIORS: WORKING IN NEW YORK CITY AFTER GRADUATION? NEED A PLACE TO LIVE? 81 NO GRAD IS LOOKING FOR A ROOMMATE. PRESENT ONE IS GOING BACK TO GRAD SCHOOL I HAVE A FANTASTIC APARTMENT IN A NICE SAFE NEIGHBORHOOD: CLOSE AND CONVENIENT TO BOTH DOWNTOWN AND MIDTOWN MANHATTAN IF IN­TERESTED, CALL JOHN AT (212) 668­3126 DAYTIME. AND (212) 858-7464 NIGHTTIME 
ATTENTION HAWKEYESII The South Bend branch of Hawkeye World Tours announces wrth regret the demtse of tts crUise ship 'Misaligned Nova. The Nova was sunk 1n Cedar Falls. Iowa early last 
week and her rema1ns were sold for scrap But on Apnl 8, her replacement, I he HMS BUick Wagon. Will depart on her ma1den voyage from South Bend lo Des T Momes. A beauttful Easter touns planned tor several riders and Your Crurse Drrec­tor Rachel reports that the accomodal1ons aboard the new ship are much improved 
Captam Dave mvttes all who need a nde 
west along lnterslate 80 as far as Des 
Momes to secure therr reservattons by 
contacttng htm at 8433 or Crurse Dtrector 
Rachel al 7893 
If you are head1ng toward I he D.C. or Northern Va. area, or dnving down 1-95 for EASTER break, I would greatly ap­preciale a <Ide. PLEASE CALL John at 8331. Will share usuaL 
NEED RIDE TO BUFFALO FOR EAS­
TER PLEASE CALL RAY AT 272-1648 
WANTED: Fourth' roomate for Campus View apt for lhe 19Se.-83 school year. For 1nfo. call Phil, Eddie, O[ Steve at 1606. 
A1de needed to P1tts. area for Easter Break. Can leave Wed or Thurs. x2843 
Need nde to NORTH JERSEY for Easter Share $$ Bnan 3648 
DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO NYC OR LONG ISLAND FOR EASTER CAN LEAVE WEDNESDAY-CALL 1089 ANYTIME-WILL SHARE USUAL 
AIDE NEEDED to Oshkosh/Appleton area at Easter Call Terese: 8148 
DESPERATE! Need a nde to ConneCtiCUt area for Easter. Call Liz at 7965. 
Need graduation tiX! Will pay! Call4233. 
NEED RIDERS TO NYC-LI FOR EAS­TERLEAVE TUESPM,4/6.SCOTT 1580 
Need nde to U. of P in Ph1lly for Easter Can leave Wed. mght and return lues Call Mary 5411, SMC 
RIDERS to FT. WORTH NEEDED DESPARATELY APRIL 16 WKND.Call CHRIS at 1771 ASAP. 
I need a ride to BALTIMORE for Easter to see many relatives. I can leave as early as Tuesday and get back lhe next Tues­day if necessary. Will share usual and I really enjoy driving at n1ght. My relatives are countmg on see1ng me so don·t let them dowm. Call M1ke at 3403 as soon as possible and make many people happy. 
A1de needed to Phila. for Easter break on 417 or 4/8. Will share usual. Call Frank 3282 
NEED 2 RIDES TO CLEVELAND FOR EASTER 289-1916 
FOR SALE 
USED BOOK SHOP HOLJR~ WED, 
SAT. SUN 9-7 CASPERSON 1303 'BUCHANAN AD , NILES 
For Sale: Allin one STEREO Good con­dillon Great for dorm room. Call aner 5:00 pm 287-1911 
For Sale FOUR IIXS to Cubs-Mets baseball game Apnl 1Oth: $20.00 Call Martin 272-0361 
SONY WALKMAN ONLY $75,2 WEEKS OLD,WITH 90 DAY SONY GARAN­TEE CALL6827 ASK FOR PETE. 
Refngerator,med1um SIZed, good cond , 1 yr old, $125, call272-0674 
TICKETS 
Need extra tickets tor graduation Call Mark at 3008 
DESPERTELY NEED 6 TICKETS FOR THE 1982 GRADUATION CEREMONY­PLEASE CALL JOHN AT 7695 
Please help me I need graduat1on tickets! Call Drew 8922 
PERSONALS 
the system comments 
to the fling hungry women -tactless yet blunt and to the po1nt. probably the best personal fve sp1t out rn a While, though. others have noticed and dec1ded to com­ment. stay tuned 
LYONS HALL FOODSALES OFFERS THE BEST IN FRESH, THICK CRUST PIZZA DELIVERED ANYWHERE ON SO T UTH QUAD FOR A NOMINAL DELIVERY CHARGE ON THURSDAY NIGHTS FROM 9:30 TO I 1. ORDER YOURS. ALSO: EVERY WEDNESDAY 
NIGHT IS GUEST CELEBRITY NIGHT 
WITH WELL· KNOWN CAMPUs­
FIGURES WORKING THE COUNTER! 
If you don't know what you want to do, and don·t know how to find out-come to a career plann1ng workshop Wednesday, March 31 . 3:30-5:30 at the Placement Bureau, Administration Building. Room 
222. Sign up by calling 239-5200. 
CAREER PLANNING HELPS. Come to a career planning workshop on Wed· nesday, March 31, 3:311-5:30. Ad­ministration Bldg., Room 222. Sign up by calling 239-5200. 
BICYCLE PICK UP TODAY, 1-4 p.m. Gate 14 Stadium. Bring tag lOr ID. 
Dear Chris, 
/If a domer offers to hop on you, do you 
really need the freaks permisSIOn as to 
whether you can have pleasure or not? 
s1gned. hot stuff. 
First Meeting N.D. Women's Caucus March 31,8:30, Little Theatre, LaFortune. 
MIKE GURDAK FOR U.M.O.C ...... HE REALLY WANTS ITIIII 
ONE MORE DAY AND ITS HEREIIII 
Mass Assassin... 
... the administration says no ... ...yet the players shall overcome ... 
SIGN-UPS for Sophomore Literary Fes­tival bemg taken at Student Union Office, 2nd lloor LaFortune. Chairman of Ex­ecutive Committee, All posillons open. Signups March 30 ·April 2 
Happy Birthday Jill Orgigherk1n. 
SLY FOX 
SLY FOX 
SLY FOX 
SEE SLY FOX 
SEE SLY FOX 
SEE SLY FOX 
BUTTERCUP 
ATTENTION ALL WINNETKA HATERS! The first meet1ng of the I hate Wm­netka fan club Will be held 1n Walsh Hall tomght at 7:30 
Out of bounds! 
Amaz1ng stunts! Dazzling spec1al effects! See SUPERMAN II th1s Fnday or Satur­day n1ght al the Eng1neenng Aud1lonum Support the Kmghts of Columbus. 
SUPERMAN II th1s Fn & Sa17,9:15, 11:30 Eng Aud You w111 bel1eve a man can FLY!! 
especially when he s high 
SING? Enjoy good religious mus1c? Jo1n a hard-work1ng choir that IS dedicated to pra1s1ng God w1th mus1c lf you would hke to be a part of th1s expenence, please call for an audition 277-5878-Phyllis or 1­522-1393-Aic St James Episcopal Cat­hedral, South Bend 
I deCided that you weren·t worth a personal Larry Hope you don·t mind! 

LIKE MASH? SEE THE SAME WRITERS PLAY, SLY FOX APRIL 1,2 & 3 
AnTostal 

Ultimate Frisbee Tournament S1gn-ups on Wednesday (3/31) at 3-5 pm m LaFortune. S1x to twelve male and/or female players per team $3 entry fee. Pnzes to final two teams. 
Catch Frisbee Fever! 
SLY FOX 

From the creator of MASH.. Larry Gel­barts SLY FOX Presented by St. Edward s Hall April1, 2, & 3 8:00pm Washington Hall Admission: $1.00 Directed by Mana Ped1!!! 
VildVoman! 

HELP! Need ride lo BUFFALO for Eas­ter... will pay$$ 
fr. ted hesburgh will speak at walsh hall, wednesday. march 31st, 7:30pm 
Dear MOM, Hang in there Friday's a comin'l G.SC 
Does anyone want to get personal? Just ask Maureen OToole! 
S.S.A.B. LIVES! The big cheeze are back!! It's BOCCI tlmel This Saturday afternoon. Watch lor details. (Does anyone know how to play?) 
ATTENTION Whoever wants a jellybean, see Fr Hap­pen 1mmed1ately! 
I need graduat1on 11ckets call Drew 8922. 
Attention SSAB members. II you can play Bocci please call Katie 41-4140 or Nancy 1285. Bocci balls welcome. 
HOLLYWOOD GALAIll 

Are you getting the message yet? 
MOT/VATE1 
ENGINE AD 

The Spring Dance ... 
IS a refreshing cultural event This Fnday and Saturday evemng J01n us. 
Stull Simon Update: Thanks to Pam and Nick (a cute couple), Sully and Jean-0 (also cute), Killer, Patti, Nancy, Jenny, Mary Jo, Dego, Jane, Julie, Babes, Kathleen, Sheila, and Raggedy Ann lor joining in as the latest An Tostal Frame Fillers!Ill 
BACK, BACK! 

MPH--THANKS lor Benn1gans.Beach,lhe 
Braves,the Butto~J,Banana Boat, the 
Boys from West 'Pomi--Break was the 
BEST! Love. M1nnesola Tw1ns P S. SO. 
you re down here on Spnng Break---Get 
your VISA yel? · 
To the Fling-Hungry women of NO· Many rnen here are Sick of be1ng blamed for your datelessness There IS no law that says that you cant ask a guy out So, next t1me you are alone on a Fnday ntght, remember that 1t IS you own fault 
rhe system comments . the above reflects just one losers att1tude., not all males here are that low-nly 
UNIT 
JERRY PARSHALL-" THE TRUE ARTIST-SEER, THE HEAVENLY FOOL WHO CAN AND DOES PRODUCE BEAUTY, IS MAINLY DAZZLED .TO DEATH BY HIS OWN SCRUPLES, THE BLINDING SHAPES AND COLORS OF 
HIS  OWN SACRED HUMAN  CON­ 
SCIENCE  
A FRIEND  

COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL HIGH SCHOOL DIVISION Featuring some of the best h1gh school jazz bands in lhe m1d-west! Saturday, April3, 1982 8:30AM-5:00 PM Adams H1gh School FREE ADMISSION 
EASY BUCKWHEATS! 
Somebody hit him/ 
ATTENTION: The ESOPHAGUS CON­STRICTORS Will be taking a study break on Monday. Apnl 5 at 4:45 to play 1n Bookstore Throats are all cordially 1nv1ted to attend 
DEAR FLING-HUNGRY WOMEN: Where have you been all th1s year. I must be calling the wrong numbers G1ve me a call and tell me your numbers. Don·t be 1nt1m1dated by the ratio. Call Pete and Joe at 1858 (Fat,dull and ugly need not apply) 
the system comments a real gutsy one. but they're probably losers too (note the insufts at the end) .. 
"Smiley" BOB RILEY is celebrating his 20th binhday today all ladies shouldn't miss this chance to plant a kiss on this teddy bear in rm 212 Keenan. 
OFF THE WALL 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY JOANIE 
Pat. Susan, and Tnsha. I You people from TN sure are mce! 1m really glad to know ya II! 
Lamey 
JACKIE WASNI AND CHIPS! 
Monkey M1ke Whatever happened to the girl w1th no arms and legs? 
LENNY Give h1m the watch already! 
MONIQUE AND THE ACADEMIES! 
ZOO GOO! 
Quole ol the Week Who wanls to go to Skegee for Easter? Just lh1nk. you 11 get to meet the COMMODORES!!! Ca113750 for Info 
BUTTERCUP 
HOLLYWOOD GALA 
HOLLYWOOD GALA 
HOLLYWOOD GALA The show must go on... 
the system finishes .. such suggestive and direct personals are really nJce; they are comments on the many socio-political-metaphysical facets of thiS mJcrocosm of the pseudo~world outSide as well as breakmg up the monotony of processmg thousands of characters of redundant, hfeless, and crudely poet1c anempts at humorr. pathos. or promiscuity that gels typed 1nto my front term1nals every day ah, the foibles of those pitiful human types 

I 
' 
l 
Wednesday, March 31, 1982-page 9
The Observer -Sports 

'Phantom Pass' 


CORBY'S

Brown's mistakespelled defeat_ 
NEW ORLEANS (AP) -It may Louisiana Superdome. Tar Heels have called would not have made well be remembered as the Phantom fans, waving blue and white pom­any difference," Thompson said. 
.JIAtl.'ltL 

Pass. It will haunt Fred Brown, but it pons, drew a last, deep breath and Eric "Sleepy" Floyd, George­
OSCAR BABY JONES

lifted the weight of 20 ~easons with· braced for Georgetown's final shot. town's All-America guard, was 
UIYTRII UIIWU

out a national championship off the waiting near the baseline for the ball.
It never came. 
shoulders of North Carolina Coach His shooting arm, like a pump, was
"I saw him (Brown) pick up the 
Dean Smith. primed to go. He already had scored
ball at the top of the key," North 
ld 's

Brown, a sophomore guard from 18 points that night.
Carolina's james Worthy said. "He 
required

Georgetown University who had "I was cutting w the corner, and

was going to throw to someone on 
........................................~ 
committed three turnovers earlier we had spread out their defense,"
the wings. I thought he'd try to lob it 
in the game, was assigned to bring Floyd said. "We had them at several
over me or throw it away from me.'' 
the ball downcourt with 15 seconds disadvantages. There were several 

r·•-----------------------i
left In the NCAA basketball cham­Georgetown had a standard play openings. We had confidence in pionship game Monday night. North for the situation, and Coach john every player out there that he could Carolina led by one, 63-62, on a 16-Thompson, with the seconds ticking shoot the ball and make it." 
I HolyCrossFathers I 
foot jump shot by freshman guard away, chose not to call timeout. But no one got that chance. I I Michael jordan. "If I had called timeout, I didn't Brown's pass went directly w There was a dull roar from the know what defense Dean would Worthy on the right side of the key. crowd, announced at 61,612, in the have called, so what play I would There was no one else around. 
1I Vocation Counseling II 
I I H I I 
1 ow do I know I I if I have a vocation to the priesthood? I
...Comer 
I II 
I Wat is the academic
I 

and formation program for becoming a priest? 1 
rett had second-place finishes in the meet this past Saturday at Purdue,
continuedfrom page I2 
rings and parallel bars, respectively, Although the women wound up I ''IT I"'( 
as did Dorenbusch in the vault. Bar­with no points in the meet, there I What scholarships aQd I became the first gymnast either for rett and junior Scott Fortman had were some top individual perfor· 1 financial aid are available for seminary training? I Notre Dame or Saint Mary's to ever third place finishes in the respecti~e mances. Sophomore Rose Marie I I 
crack the nine harrier as she scored a I ''~'
events of the high bar and floor ex­Luking had a personal best time of ercise. 5:48.8 in the mile run. Freshman 1 What are the various I
phenomenal 9.4 in the vault com· petition to place tirst. Not bad for For the women, freshman Cindy Lorie Stuzik had a 6:08.2 time in the I apostolic ministries of the Holy Cross priests? I 
Salvino placed second in the floor same event. excercise and third in the vault and junior Kathy Adams ran a 7.9 in 
someone who had been sick all 
week and even had troubles during I ---How do I pmy ! 
uneven bars. Classmate Kathy Wol­the 60 meters with freshmanwarmups. 
Dorenbusch, meanwhile, placed ter had a second-place performance Rosalind Woods finishing right be­I if I'm think:ng of a vocation to the priesthood 1 in the balance beam. McHugh and hind with a 8.0 sprint. Sophomore I and I'm not sure? I
first in the rings on the strength of 
Lisa Monti ran the 220-yard dash in I -·-------·-·--I
Salvino also had outstanding scores :28.3. Freshman Mary Maher, in her
becoming the tirst Notre Dame gym· 
nast ever to finish offa routine with a in the vault with scores or 8.8 and I I 
first track meet, ran a 31.7 220-yard
8.7 as they placed second and thirddouble somersault. Dorenbusch 
II 
For" pt.>r~ndl. conhdt.•fllldlu\lt•/'\w.,.. 'IA.tth 110 ohhti<lllllll I
sprint. Freshman Mary Kennedy ran 
\A. flit• or rdll Hw \tXdiKHl Ju,-c tor
finished with a 6.8 score. Other first· respectively. The team will travel to pk•cJ"ot' I 
Purdue this Saturday to conclude a 2:33 880-yard race to lead the clubplace performances came from 
II

I ~~~ ;:;IIJ«· l.<·wlll<• ' " I ~~ 
·the season. in the intermediate races.
freshman Tim Sennet in the floor ex;· "'otu.· Ddlllt· lnd ~1)5,50junior Evie Allmaras wa~ the lone
ercise ( 7.4 ), and senior Louis WOMEN'S TRACK -The Notre I For dpporntnto 111 I Dame women's track team opened tield competitor for the team. She t.dll bt'l~o~.t't'll H \0.., rn
DeLeon in the pummel-horse (6.7 ). I 
r 

juniors Randy Kelly and Ed Bar· up its spring season at a nine-team threw the shotput 9.94 meters (about 33 feet). The 4 x 220 relay 
I ;~;: II 
team of Woods, Adams, Maher and 
Monti t\nished with a 2:02.6 time. I 219239-6385 1 The team will travel to Western I I Michigan this Saturday for its next I . .I
...Selmer 
meet. 
------------------------~­

continuedfrompage 12 
the exchange, but the other two are overnight. It's a business." 
similar. I'll make sure the kids learn Selmer also i~ happy to be at Notre the essentials of both the guard and Dame, a kind of coaching zenith he­tackle positions, and I hope this will 
E~(j ~~ ltEAS g
cause it's "a national school -help us as a football team. everybody's aware of Notre Dame "We're starting from scratch to football." tlnd out what we have," he adds, "so 
In coming to Notre Dame, Selmer my task right now is to tind the t\ve 


R~HRMIJ f?t@~~f~~ ~[]ral]l?~~'u' 
rejoins linebacker coach George best players we have, and then the Kelly, whom he served with for next five, and so on. In doing that, 
~~ ff fff~T -£fU]W~r.i(j r.iffl~[]r.iWUJE l':lffr.iUfffLTURER []f PLff~T ~L 
seven years while at Nebraska. we're trying to utilize the strengths A native of Minneapolis, Minn., we think they have, and improve on 
what they already know. ~H~PP~r.i(j L[]r.ilff~r.iER~ I 1\E []ffER LHffLLEr.iB~r.i(j p[]~~T ~[]r.i~
Selmer has spent his first three months as an Irish assistant becom­"That's the purpose ofspring ball. ing acquainted with the players with ~r.i ~~X L[]Lffl~[]r.iS ffLR[]S~ THE L[]Ur.iTR'w' I THE~E p[]~~T ~[]r.iS
I think they're all very capable, but whom he will he dealing. He calls we don't want to remain at a kind of those players ''great people. They're status quo. We want to get better, 
LEff[) [)~RELTL'w' l[] PLffr.iT l':lffr.iff(jEI':lEr.iT RE~P[]r.iS~S~L~T ~E~ I
helpful and very personable, and and I hope to make them better." easy to get to know. They all seem A somewhat anxious group of very cooperative, and I've enjoyed funs, both student and alumni, 
~~[[J~ UJ[p ~[][ru ~lf \]'[]LJ][H lP!.~~[tt1]~~1f
working with them so far." would like nothing more than to sec Selmer also praised his linemen him succeed. for their intelligence, something IRISH ITEMS: Practice resumes 
~ff~~lt f[[]R ~ [GCRJ~lPUJE ~~lfltRUJ~lt~ []~
they will need in the Selmer system. today, weather permitting, for the "Ge!lerally, Ifeel a lineman should Irish today at Cartier Field, begin· be able to play any position on the ning at 4 p.m. Students, as always, are ~~~[[]~V g CRJlPRM.. Sg ~ rrJ[B) 2a 
line," he says. "Naturally, the center welcome to attend by showing an position is a bit different because of 10. 



IN April 
You've lil>t r:~-::::::::-=­gotta run. i V:CJIII~~~~:Club Afflha!lon(lf any) State__Zip.__ 
· T-sh1rt S1ze (cirCle one) S M L XL -AMERICA'S 
FOOTBALLCONCESSION STANDS 
Oubs, Organizations, Hall Governments have until Friday, April16to apply for a location for the 1982football season. 
Notification ofwinners will be the following week. Applications_are available ill the 
Everybody s runnmg In Amerlcn LCMt Run. You don't LOVE RUN 
Student Activities Office. · 
have to be an Olympic champion to joan. Set a reasonable l!eturn Registration with your goal .. then ask fnends, neighbors. and busaness associates $3.50 tax deductible entry fee ~03 ~e;ci7Wayne · 
00
to pledge 5¢ or more to the Muscular Dystrophy Associ&· (check payable to MDAJ TO: s 1h 8 nd IN 46601t1on lor every m1le you run. Run anywhere you'd ou e · 
like-andatanytime. ---------.::..
Send 1n the registration form below along with your J
A • L R S3.50 tax deductible entry lee (check payable to MOA). and merfca $ ove un..., we'll send you an official T-Shirt, Sponsorship Form. To benefit the Muscular Dystrophy Association Runner's log. and complete instructions. 



The Observer -Sports Wednesday, March 31, 1982-page 10 

... Briefs

51st ANNIVERSARY 
In this year's NHLp/ayofflormat, thatoplourteams in each-division make the playoffs, regardless of
ROCKNE MEMORIAL MASS 
overall league standing. 
continuedfrom page 8

&BREAKFAST 
PRINCE OF WALES CONFERENCE 
Adame Division 

Sunday,April4, 1982 
W L T GF GAPia.

Chris Needles, the new Sports Editor of the Observer, 
K-Montreat 45 15 17 350 214 107 
will be the guest tonight on "Speaking of Sports" at midnight on 
y-Boston 41 26 10 306 271 92
MASS: 8: 15 AM, South. Dining Hall 
y-Buffalo 38 25 15 298 262 91 y-Ouebec 31 30 16 337 333 78 
WSND-AM 64, hosted by Dave Dziedzic and Will Hare. Listeners are
BREAKFAST: 9:15 AM South Dining Hall 
invited to call in with their sports questions at 239-6400 or 239­
Hartford 21 39 17 258 336 59 
Patrick Division 

7425. -The Observer
GUEST SPEAKER CoachGerryFaust 
x-N.Y. Islanders 53 15 9 374 237 115 y-N.Y. Rangers 38 26 13 304 295 89
SPECIAL GUESTS Membersofthe 
y-Ph1ladelph1a 37 30 10 312 303 84 y-Piltsburgh 29 36 12 292 326 70
Rockne Family 1982 Football Tri-Captains: 
Washington 24 41 12 306 329 60
The ND Windsurfing Club will hold a very im­Phil Carter, Dave Duerson, Mark Zavagnin 
portant meeting for all members on Wednesday, March 31, at 9 p.m. 
CLARENCE CAMPBELL CONFERENCE in the Grace Pit. A vote will be taken at this time to determine a 
Smythe Dvteion W L TGFGAPis 

merge with the sailing club. A small party will follow. -The Ob­
x-Edmonton 46 17 15 406 291 107
SPECIAL FEATURE 
y-Calgary 28 33 17 322 342 73 y-Vancouver 28 33 t6 273 278 72 
server
Duringbreakfast there will be a screening 
y-Los Angeles 24 38 15 307 349 63 Colorado 17 48 12 234 346 46
of a recent Knute Rockne documentary film 
Norris Divfeion x-M1nnesota 36 22 20 338 282 92
narrated byactor Cliff Robertson For The Fellowship of Christian Athletes 
y-Winmpeg 33 30 14 314 323 80 
y-SI. Louis 31 39 8 308 340 70
will hold a meeting tonight at 9 o'clock in the Howard social space. 
additional information call the Alumni 
y-Chicago 28 37 12 320 352 68
All are invited to attend. -The Observer 
Toronto 20 42 16 293_ 367 56
·Office at (219) 239-6000, or Tom Kirschner 
Detrmt 20 46 12 265 345 52 
x-chnched diVISIOn t1tle
(in the evening) at 234-3 790. 
y-clinched playoff spot 
Vesterdey' s Results 

Buffalo 6. Quebec 4 
Montreal 6, Hartford 4
The San Francisco Giantscontinued its cleaning 
Winnipeg 7, M1nnesota 5 St. Lou1s 5, Toronto 3
house of its pitching staff yesterday by trading two more starting
.. Calgary 7, Los Angeles 5 pitchers. Stafface Vida Blue was traded to the Kansas City Royals for 
obscure pitchers Renie Martin, Atlee Hammaker and Craig Cham­
THE OBSERVER 
berlain. Blue was 8-6 with a 2.45 ERA last year, and was a three-time 
20-game winner ,:tnd a 1971 Cy Young Award winner. Then, the 


SMCtrack 
Giants shipped righthander Doyle Alexander to the Yankees for two 
minor leaguers. That means.that the Giants, since last October, have
NEEDS PHOTOGRAPHERS! 
traded its entire 1981 starting rotation. Pitchers Allen Ripley, Tom 

places third 
Griffin and Ed Whitson were dealt over the winter. -AP 
•

mmeet 
This is a paid position with many fringe benefits. Darkroom experience a must. Bring resume and samples of your 
work to the OBSERlTER Office 
~­(3rd floor LaFortune) by March 31. 



··, ( ICELIIDIIR lmODUCES
i lEW BIROAIN FARES TO 
1 MORE OF EUROPE.
I WXEM.RB PARIS 






I •489 •581
I •••DTRIP IIOUIDTRIP 
FROM CHICAGO FROM CHICAGO 
I 

2UIIICII FRIIKFURT
I
I 

•599 *557
I 



-IDTRIP ROUIDTRIP 
FROM CHICAGO FROM CHICAGO 
I 

I 
All Apn Farro: April!-May 14. l9ij2, 7·90 day stay (1·60 days Luxrm­boura>. Stopovers prrm•tttd m both dlrtcuons. 14 day advance pt~rch.ase requirtd. Seats limited. Ask about our low cost Normal. Same Day. and Group fans. too.
! AlSO LOW COST CONNECTING SERVICE TO NICE AND AMSTfRDAM. '-! lcelandair to Lu\embourg. Luxair or Crossair connecting service 
! to o:e~::;::~~::~rvation. 

a Free wine with dinner, cognac after. '-! a Bargain Stopover Tours of Iceland and Luxembourg. a Bargain car rentals. a Purchase tickets in U.S. a All fares subject to change and 
. i ! '-! government approval. 
~~-...ft..~.....,.,~C~~;;i,~'IR; 
NOW MORE THAN EVER YOUR BEST VALUE TO EUROPE 
~ 

Ckeelt out flee. 


OAKROOM CAFE 
ill Seufk 'Oiaiq Kaft'a fiiJ Coil 

For a late nite snack 
Nightly Specials 
Com lete with a new jukebox open Mon.-Thurs 9-·12 am V Fri.-Sat. 9-l am ----___,...---~· 
·::·~ .. ~-. . 


Hofstra LawSchool 
SUMMER SESSION 1982k 
Courses Cred1ts 

Summer Commercial Paper 2 Conflict of Laws
Session 1 3 
Criminal Procedure 4 Debtor-Creditor 3 Evidence 4

May24 
Family Law 3 Individual Income Tax 4


to July 2 
Law and Medicine 3 Remedies 3 Secured Transactions 2 Securities Regulation 3 Unfair Trade Practices 3 
Business Organizations 4

Summer 
Corporate Tax 3

Session2 Estate and Gift Tax 3 International Law· 2 Law and Public Education 

July& 3 
'Legislative Process 3

toAug.18 Tax Clinic 3 Products Liability 3 
For Further Information Write or Call (516) 560-3636 
School



(j)Hofstra 
ofLaw 

HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY, Hempstead, NY 11550 
Hof~tra University IS an equal educational opporlumty !nSIItution 
The Saint Mary's track team placed third out of four teams yes­terday in thc:ir season-opening meet hosted by the Belles. 
First place was taken by defending Division III state champion Ander­son College, with St. Joseph's ofDivi­sion II placing second, the Belles (who compete in Division III) third and Goshen College founh. 
Impressive performances were turned in by several SMC athletes. Freshman Helen Calacci placed first in the discus, and fifth in the shotptit and javelin. Fellow freshman Kelly O'Connor came in third in the high jump and second in the hurdles. Sophomore Cindy Shon turned in the best accomplishment of the day, though, when she won the BOO­meter race, defeating the defending state champion from Anderson in the process. 
"All in all, it was a good perfor­mance for our first meet," said SMC Co-Coach Tim Dillon. "Hopefully, we'll improve in the coming weeks for our other meets." 
The next meet for the Belles will take place on April 5 against Earlham College and Indiana Central Univer­sity. -The Observer 
Become an Army Officer 
Would you like to put your deoree to work upon graduation? 
As an Army Officer, you'll dPvelop your abilities to organize, t-ain, and motivate people -just the s k ilIs you need for private i ndus"try. You will find that an officer's job can be challenqinq, demandinq, and ~ satisf.vinQ, for both men and 
women .. 
You'll beqin after oraduation with a 21-week-training prooral'l, "hich includes Officer Candidate School. Once you successfully complete the training, you will hecome a second 1 l eutenant. 
You must be a U.S. citizen or have been lawfully admitted for pennaner.t residence. You must also he ben<een 19 and 29 years old. 
for more infomation ahout hpcomino an Army Officer, contact 
CaptaiiJ l';eoroe Burnett Sherland Buildino, Room 420 105 E. Jefferson, South Bend 
• 232-6250 Mon-fri, Ba .m. -6 ~m ARt·W -BE ALL YOU CArl BE 
~~---~-----~--­
lhe~r======================================= 

~~~~~==========================W==ed=n=e=s=d=ay='=M=M==ch==3=1,=1=9=8=2===p=a=g=e=l=l 
Molarity 
lb"-'1<:1Hf W£ TAKE AN II\; 

B{;CAUS£ 0F 7HE VERY l:f:Pn-j WU) !MD COJ..LE~c 

, 
SENSI TtVE NA1l!RE CF 11! E ATHLEft£:5 ~-SPec If/CALLX 
TOPIL, 'COACH "HAS IiSKE/?l(£cF?UITINr1 A,THLE7ES 
1D RHIAIN AJ.JDJJYMDIJ5Tb PRDT£CT HIS FAHIL..Y 



Doonesbury 




Simon 

11-ll:> I~ Utlfk(Ef'TflBLE! iNEXCU~ftfll.E! lllE Y d\NT l'li!Y fl GAM£ LI~E \\-\IS WI1~T ASKING­

ME!! 
I 

Michael Molinelli 
~0 ... YOU HAD KIND OF 




ACROSS 1 Sounds of laughter 
6 Small weights: abbr. 
9 Singer 

Natalie 13 That is ':'::'""+--+-+--1 14 Blow a 
horn -+--+-+--1 15 Eye part 16 Kitchen 
gadget 17 Frog: Lat. 18 Lairs 19 Was too 
finicky 22 Consumed -+--t---1 23 Foreboding 



The Daily Crossword 
© 1982 Tribune Company Syndicate. Inc. 3/31182 All Rights Reserved 
24 Alphabet sequence 28 Altitudes: 
abbr. 30 Fuel ship 33 Under 35 Starts 37 Moon 
vehicle 39 City in 
Belgium 40 Sickness 41 Wipe out 43 Spanish 
queen 44 Fable 
name 46 Memos 47 Lawn stuff 49 Circuit 

I 
Call Julian 3805 to entet the The Juniot Class Talent Show atthe Ncuz TOmORROW NIGHT 9-?pm 
IFYOUDON'T ACT,SING,DANCE·.. ··· THEN COME BY AND WATCH THE FUN!!! 

Campus 
·' • 

-Career Planning Workshop, joan Mcln· tosh, NO, Administration Building Placement Bureau Rm. 222, Sponsored by Placement Bureau, 
•7:00 
p.m.-Lecture, "A Christian Perspective of Abortion and Parcntho, Tom Reid, Stapleton Lounge, SMC, Sponsored by ND/SMC Right to Life, 

•7:30 
p.m. -Film, The Killing Ground, Rm. 351 Madeleva, SMC, Sponsored by SMC Psychology Department, free 

•8:00 
p.m. -Lecture, Bette Anderson, SMC, Car· roll Hall, Sponsored by Women's Opportunity Week Series, 

•8:00 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Legal Aspects of Abortion", Dr. Charles Rice, NO, Stapleton Lounge, SMC, Sponsored by ND/SMC Right to Life, 

•8:30 
p.m. -Meeting, First General Meeting of the Notre Dames Women's C, La Fortune Liule Theatre, 

•9:00 
p.m. -Prayers for Peace, SMC, SMC Club· house, 

•9:00 
p.m. -Meeting, Fellowship of Christian Athletes, Howard Hall Social Space, 

•1
0:00p.m. -Penance Service for Lent, Sacred Heart Church, Sponsored by Campus Ministry, 



T.V. Tonight 
Wednesday, March 31 
7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8:00p.m. 
9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. !O:OOp.m. 
ll:OOp.m. 
11:30p.m. 
12:00a.m. 12:30p.m. 

16 MASH 22 CBS News 28 joker's Wild 34 The MacNeiVLehrer Report 
16 The Muppct Show 22 Family Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 
34 Straight Talk 
16 Real People 22 Herbie, The Love Bug 28 Greatest American Hero 
34 Melody ofa City: New Orleans 
16 Facts ofUfe 
22 WKRP in Cincinnati 28 The Fall Guy 34 Middletown "The Big Game" 
16 Love Sidney 22 Baker's Dozen 16 Quincy 22 Shannon 28 Cheryl l.add...Scenes from a Special 34 Ught in the West 16 NewsCcnter 16 
22 .22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 2H 34 The Dick Cavett Show 16 The Tonight Show 22 CBS Movie: "Deathsport" 28 ABC News Nightline 34 Captioned ABC News 28 Love Boat 16 Late Night with David Letterman 

Today in History 
March 31,1931 Bazaar, Kansas 
Legendary Notre Dame football coach Kitute Rockne is killed in a plane crash. 
-.. 
·­

51 Greek 
letter 52 Dicks 54 Tennis need 
56 Wa~too 
gullible 64 Greek 
garment 65 Wander 66 Architec. 
ture style 67 Wargod 68 Trampled 69 Vedic 
precept 70 Lahr or 
Parks 71 Observe 72 Attempted 
DOWN 
1 Body joints 
2 Islamic 
code of 
customs 
3 Berlin 
title 
4 Lost 
5 Furrow 
6 Prod 
7 Unit 
8 Depot 
9 Shillelagh 10 Hot spot 11 Ms Horne 12 Bridge seat 14 Locales for 
bird nests 

20 Degree 21 Gotten up 24 Proficient 25 Person 26 Lucid 27 Pooch 29 Thread 
holder 31 Fill with joy 32 Adjust, as a clock 34 Cunning 
sneak 36 Enlarged 38 Tableland 42 Steal 45 Accompanies 48 Finally 50 Legume 53 Affirmed 55 Dickens' 
Oliver 56 Use a 
stiletto 57 Used 58 Ripening 
factor 59 Wild cry of old Greece 60 Particular 
time 61 Against 62 Calabrian 
cash 
63 Organism modified by environment 

Wednesday, March 31, 1982 -page 12

~orts 
Selmer brings years ofexperience to ND 
By MARK HANNUKSELA 
Sports Writer 
Carl Selmer has been coaching 
college football longer than most of 
his players have been alive. 
His stops have included most every geographical region of North ~merica: West -::-Wyoming; _1\!id: 

Spring Football '82 
west -Nebraska and Kansas State; 
North -Minnesota; Northwest ­
Vancouver, British Columbia; South 
-North Texas State; and Southeast 
-Miami (Florida). 
He has seen a variety ofchanges in 
rules and equipment, not to mention 
individual talent, in his 35 years of 
coaching (nine in high school, 24 in 
college and one in Canada's profes­
sional league). 
And through it all, the basic 
philosophies of coaching an of­
fensive line have remained the same. 
"We've gotta block 'em," he says. 
"We've got to protect the quarter­
back and open holes for the runners. 
The ideas and methods and 
maneuvers will change from time to 
time for various reasons, but the 
basic thought never changes." 
In other words, there are no 
promises of new looks and exciting 
movements -only hopes of in­
creased productivity. 
"We'll emphasize aggressiveness, 
but we'll probably do about the 
same things that were done last 
year," says Selmer, 56, who comes to 
Notre Dame from British Columbia, 
where he coached the B.C. Lions of 
the CFL. "We're just going to try to 

improve on what they did do, and I hope they will be able to do that as they become more experienced." 
Experience is one thing Selmer has to give to his troops. He wears on his left hand a symbol of what that experience can produce -a nation­al championship ring. 
Selmer was with Nebraska when the Cornhuskers captured back-to­back national titles in 1970 and '71, and wears a championship ring as a result. 
Under then-head coach Bob Devaney, Selmer coached the line that triggered Nebraska's high­powered offense, an offense that was just as potent in 1972, even though the Huskers did not win another title. Nebraska did, however, cap off that season by rolling over Notre Dame, 40-6, in the 1973 Orange Bowl. 
That was Devaney's final season as the Nebraska coach, and it ended a 16-yearperiod that Devaney and Sel­mer spent together (the first five were at Wyoming). 
That was also four jobs ago for Sel­mer, who has been either the of­fensive line coach or the offensive coordinator at every stop, with the exception of a two-year rdgn as Miami's head coach. 
After last year's CFL stint, he's hap­py to be back in the college ranks, where, he says, "You have a little better relationship with the player. I enjoyed my year in Canada, but pro ball can be callous sometimes. In college, you watch players go through the system and graduate, but in pro ball, you can lose a player 
See SELMER, page 9 


Notre Dame's newoffensive line coach Carl Sel­mer (right), a 35-year veteran of the coaching ranks, got right down to business at hisfirst Irish 

Academic All-American 
Krimm receives NCAAscholarship 
ByBILL MARQUARD 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame seniorJohn K.rimm, a three year starter at defensive back for the Irish who owns a 3.7 grade­point average, was awarded a plaque yesterday commemorating his NCAA Post-Graduate Scholarship. 
The award was made by Fr. Ed-







Rugbymakes triumphant return 
RUGBY -A crowd of close to 400 people was on hand last Saturday at the Stepan Center fields to witness the new beginning of Notre Dame rugby. And although Notre Dame lost the A, B and C matches to the South Side Irish from Chicago by respective scores of 16-4, 10-3 and 9-0, the enthusiasm of being able to compete once again was not lost on the players. 
"We didn't expect to win," admits club president Nick Colarelli. "We just used this game as a warmup for the Purdue match this Saturday (also to be played at the Stepan fields). You have to realize that we are just a club sport, while the team we played has people who have been playing for 1 0 years." 
Senior Danny Pearl had the lone score for Notre Dame in the "A" game. Classmate Marc Deflin stood out as the top performer among the backs while junior Mike Butler was cited for fine play for the serums (linemen). Senior joe Timmins' kick provided the only scoring for the team in the "B" match. 
"There were only four guys on the 'B' squad who had previous experience in rugby," relates Colarelli. "The other 11 were new members. It is the same case with the 'C' team; they are all good athletes, it's just a matter ofgaining some more experience in the matches. 
"Otherwise everything was just great. The players 
were in good shape as they didn't become seriously 
tired and all, .md the enthusiasm was super." The 
Purdue match this Saturday is slated to begin between 
12 and 1 p.m. 
WOMEN'S SOITBALL Heroic. comebacks 
epitomize the incredible Notre Dame lore in athletics. 
In the opening game of a doubleheader against Saint 
Mary's last Saturday, the Notre Dame women's softball 
club became a part of that historic pantheon. Trailing 
7-0 after three innings, and 8-1 going into the bottom of 
the 6th, the Irish looked like they were headed for cer­
tain defeat. 
"It would have been pretty easy to quit," says 
student-assistam coach Bob Spahn. "We were making a 
lot ofmistakes, plus the conditions with the strongwind 
and all really made it difficult enough to play, much less 
come back from a large deficit." But, hey, seven-run 
comebacks in the cold are fun and a snap compared to 
practicing and running in the dimly-lit ACC at midnight 
throughout the winter months (as the team members 
were subjected to). 
A four-run 6th-inning made the score 8-5 going into 
the 7th and final inning, but after two of the first three Notre Dame women made outs in the final inning, hope seemed lost. Two more women reached base, however, to set up sophomore Laura Chagnon's clutch base­clearing double to put the game into extra innings and spur an eventual 9-8 triumph by Notre Dame. 

Sophomore Jill Strenzel paced the hitting with a 3­for-5 effort at the plate. Strenzel, junior Laurie Barry and freshman Linda Kelleher each batted in a run for the Irish. Kelleher also was the winning pitcher as she gave up no earned runs and only five hits in 5 1/3 innings of relief. 
In the second game, Saint Mary's, on the strength ofa bases-loaded triple by Theresa McGinnis, took a 4-1 lead after two innings. The Irish rallied once again, though, to emerge as 6-4 victors. Notre Dame senior Cyndi Crenne! earned the win as she helped limit Saint Mary's to four hits. Mary Bayless, her Saint Mary's coun­terpart, also tossed a four-hitter. Sophomore Molly Ryan scored three runs and hit a triple while freshman Mary Arn had two hits in three at bats to pace the Notre Dame offense. 
GYMNASTICS -Led by the "McNificent" duo of senior Brian McLaughlin and sophomore Denise McHugh, the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Gymnastics Club had its finest team meet of the year in trouncing Purdue. The men's team won by a score of 110.4-65.65 while the women won 61.1-50.2. McLaughlin and McHugh both placed first in the all-around competi-· tion. McLaughlin placed first in the vault with a 7.9 score, second in the floor exercise and high bar, and third t in the pummel horse and parallel bars. 
McHugh took first place in the floor excercise, un­even bars and balance beam with respective scores of 6.8, 6.1 and 5.2. She also placed second in the vault. A total of 15 men and eight women competed. 
Freshmen Megan Zillig of Saint Mary's and Mike Dorenbusch were the stars of the meet, though. Zillig 
See CORNER, page 9 

mund P. joyce, CSC, the university's Ohio, native. "Philosophy has given Executive Vice-President. me the chance to develop skills "This scholarship award is in­valuable in critical thinking and dicative of the kind of program we ev~_uating. want to have here at Notre Dame ­a program which combines academics and athletics," explained Joyce. -­"It demonstrates our emphasis on 'student' in the term 'student­athlete,"' he continued. "I am as proud of this award as I· am ofan Academic All-American." The scholarships, which include a S2,000 stipend, are awarded annual­ly to the nation's outstanding student-athletes. Twenty-two were awarded in football this season, and Krimm's award is the 21st awarded to a Notre Dame student-athlete. Only the Air Force Academy has more. "I think this award really demonstrates that at Notre Dame one can enjoy the best of both ]ohnKrimm worlds, academically and athletical­ly," offered Krimm, a philosophy 

"Skills such as these can be applied in any number ofareas." Krimm's award marks the fourth consecutive year that an Irish 
~n award such as 
student-athlete has been honored. · The previous three were Tom Gib­

this is more important bons (football, '81), Greg Meredith (hockey, '80) and Joe Restic (football, '79).
to me than a national 
Interestingly, the last three foot­ball players, including Krimm, to 

championship ...' receive an NCAA Post-Graduate Scholarship were all defensive backs. 
major. 
"John is one of our finest ex­amples of a student-athlete," added Mike DeCicco, the university's 

INSIDE: academic advisor for athletics. "An award such as this is more important to me than a national championship 
SMCtrack 
or any other athletic honor -it demonstratesto us that we really are achieving what we have set out to 
--page 10 
accomplish. "In fact, the NCAA Post-Graduate Scholarship is the Heisman trophy of 
NCAA roundup
scholar-athletes." Although he seriously is consider­ing professional football, Krimm's 


--page 9 
long-range plans are focused on law school. Having been accepted at Vir­ginia, Duke, Notre Dame and Ohio 
Sportsbriefs
State, he is leaning toward the first. "I chose to pursue philosophy with the idea of furthering my 


--page 8 
education, either in an MBA or law program," explained the Columbus, 



