------------------------~-~--------~~--~----~---------------.-------.--~------~~~r---------~~~----~----.-~------------.------~..~-------...... 
,.. ,.· 
, Gallagher~ page 8 

~j 
I 
I 
\'OL. X\'11, ;\;()_ -10 till-111dqwndnlt -.tudn11 lll'\\'(l·IPcr "tT\ Ill)-: IH>tn· d;lllH' and ,,IIIli 111.1n ·, MONDAY. OCTOHER 1H, 19H2 
Skydivers 


Plane crash kills fourteen 
TArr. Calif ( AP) -An aircraft Field. where the Taft ~chool of ~port he ~aw one hod\· h·ing ahout l 0 teet carrying skyuivers cra~heu and hurst Parachuting ha..., a landing strip. away. into Hames in a "drop area" eight Art Armstrong. owner of the Kern County l·irc Capt. Alex Can­mile~ southeast of Taft vc~teruay af­school. said the plane had taken oil dia said emergency personnel and 
ternoon. killing all 1-t people from the s(·hool's air strip hut several clergymen were at the field ahoard. oftkials saiu. declined to give information about shortly after the crash. 
"I was auvheu there were I-t its occupants. The crash occurred in good people aboaru. Then I was auvised One witness. Herman Dargadz. a weather in a popular skvdiving area there were no survi\·ors." ~aiu Kern sen·Ke station employee. saiu the ah(,Ut I50 miles northwest of Los County ~herift's Lt. :\1onroe Sandlin. plane took off, rose into the air. Angeles. The region is chidly desert. 
Other emergency scn·ices officials made a sharp turn and nose-uiveu to dotted with oil fields. confirmell that the number on hoard the ground. A passing motorist reported the wa.' 1-l. The plane exploucd and hurst in­crash about 12:50 p.m., ~andlin said. 
Witnesses at the scene saiu the to flames on impact. Dargadz said and the sheriff's station received plane, a twin-engine Bccchcraft. was the charreu hollies were mostly reports oftlamcs vbihle in the sky. carrying jumpers clost: to (;aruner mangled in the wreckage. although Firefighters said the crash started 
a small fire that burned itselfout. but the plane wa..., destroyed. "\X'hen our t1rst engine company
Organization discusses 
got there, he said the structure had just disintegrated." said Kern County tlrdighter Rohert llcimiller. "All you got left is the tail sections and a couple of wing tips." said fire or severely punished, even after department dispatcher John Rosso, 
drunk driving problem 
ByTOMMOWLE 
citing a report from another airplane ganizations exist on othercampuses. 
Sews Staff causing fatalities. Similar student or­
that tlew over the crash site. mainly in the East. Last month, an Army helicopterStudents Against Drunk Driving, 
carrying an international skydiving
which held its second meeting yes­Over 20 people in Keenan·~ Hof­terday afternoon, is committed to man Lounge listened to Selvaggi and team cra.~hed in \lannheim. West eliminating the problem of drunk Como outline SADl>'s goals. First, 
<1ermany, killing -16 people -eight Americans, 2_-\ French, nine Britons
driving. SADD is composed of they intend to educate themselves and six West Germans. The team
people from ~otre Dame. Saint and tht· puhlic ahout the problem so was participating in an air show.
.\1ary's, and Indiana llniversity-~outh they will be ahle to speak aut­Bend. horitatively ahout it. Beyond that. An·ording to statbtics cited by they have no firm plans, but are :\ielanie Como, student hody presi­considering lobbying congres~men 
lixperimentatbasis 
dent at !USB, "over a quarter ofa mil­in the next tt·rm to pass stricter lion people have been killed by drunk driving laws. drunk drivers in the pa...,t decade -As +l percent of-alcohol-related 



Duggan to approve parietals 
more than the numher of Americans acddents occcur in the 16-2-t age killed in combat in Vietnam. An addi­group, they would especially like to By MARGARET FOSMOE \1urphy said. "I think the Board of plete. He stressed the need to make tional 6'i0,000 are crippled or educate high school students. They Suint .Harr's E.\·ecuti1•e Editor Regents had some questions. They policy provisions for those students 
maimed each year." also are trying to establish chapters couldn't really decide, so they who are not in favor of weekday Tom Sdvaggi, who co-chaired the on other cammpuses and hope to The fate of the re-i·ised parictals moved to let the Administration parietals. met:ting with Como says that the key start profession oriented groups proposal was turned over to the Ad­decide. Hopefully, the decision will Duggan said the College will send to the problem is a lack of public among physicians, lawyers, and miniMration at the conclusion of the work in our favor." letters to parenb explaining the awareness. According to ~clvaggi. others. Board of Regents meeting at Saint A tentative date for the decision policy change. pt·ople condone drunk driving Como stressed that SADO is not \lary's Friday. has not heen announced. "I hope to In other matters, the Board of against drinking in general, and she
"because they don't know what's The Board ruled that parictals hear of a decision sometime this Regents approved the budget for the going on. A drunk driver is not suggested that students adopt a hours are an adminbtrative matter week. If changes need to be made, renovation of the former College selective ahout who he kills." 'huddy system' when going to and referred the final decision to we could start impiemcnting them Library into a student center. Plans Selvaggi resolved to start the or­parties to which it is necessary College PresidentJohn :\1. Duggan. soon," \lurphy said. t{>r the t·enter were finalized at the
to 

ganization, which is not affiliated drive. "If t{>Ur friends are going to a 'Tm going to approve the The plan proposes extending the Board meeting last spring and bids with any national groups such as party, one should stay sober each proposal on an experimental basis present parietals hours to include are now heing accepted for the :\1others Against Drunk Driving, last time and he able to drive them home until the end of tht· year." said Dug­the following: friday, 'i p.m. to 2 renovation work. The facility is summer after learning that most gan in response to the Boa.rd deci­a.m.; Saturday, I p.m. to 2 a.m.; Sun­scheduled to to open next fall. 
See SADD page 5

drunk drivers are never convicted sion. Duggan said he would. day, I to 10 p.m.; and \1onday Duggan said the Board also en­however, he advised hy other mem­through Thursday. 'ito 10 p.m. dorsed having a chairman appoint a bers of tht· Adminbtration before Duggan said the new parietals will co.nmittee to set a "workable making a tina! decision. he imple.ncnted on an experimental tlgure" for a planned expansion to 
Student Bod~ President Kathleen basis atter all preparations are com-the Science Hall. 
Mewes claims nuclear freeze crucial 
ByJEFF HARRINGTON Brott.cr William :\lewes. a local Holy ning a greater and greater risk \taffRefJIJrter Cross brother who recently was ap­toward instrumental error as we cut pointed ..rate coonhnator of the In­down the time when human deci­
To improt•e national anti inter­diana nuclear-we;~pon freeze sion can handle the process." 
national securitJ·. the United States campaign. As chairman of Indiana's nuclear­sbould stop tbe nuclettr anns race. weapon freeze effort, :\lewes said he .\j>ecifica/~J', the)' should adopt a 
planned to ll>eus his efforts on the mutual freeze 011 the testing. upcoming elections and on a production, and deployment of statewide petition drive. nuclear u·eapons anti of missiles To ht·st influence local and na­and neu· aircraft designed primari-tional candidates, the Indiana cam­1)' to tlelit•er nuclear u•eapons. This paign scheduled three press is an essent;al, t•erifiahle first step "\X e must act now (to initiate the conferences this past week. includ­tou•artllessening the risk ofnuclear freeze) hefore the election of 19H-t," ing the presentation of a petition of u·ur and reducing tbe nuclear ar­said \lewes. "After that, technologi­-.500 signatures favoring the freeze 
senals. t·al strides will push it out of con­at a dehate hetween l'.~. Representa­
The ahovc Congressional trol." tive John Hiler who opposes the propo!->al li>r a mutual l'.S -Soviet lie added that he felt the L.S. was freeze and his <.hallengt>r, Democrat nuclear-weapon freeze is "one ofthe fa.,t losing its pla(.T of military parity Jack Bodine, who supports the most nucial foreign policy issues with the Russians whom "we are freeze. (confronting the l' S. ) during the roughly equal to now." :\1ewe~ 
to See IN DEPTH page 4
next two ~cars. according stressed his conct·rn that "we're run-






News Brie./§ 
By The ( Jbsen•er and lhe Associated Press 

The Israeli Foreign Ministry said yesterday that Israel is gratified by U.S. support in opposing Israeli expulsion from the U.N. General Assembly and technical conferences of the world body. "Israel is very appreciative and very pleased with the American approach to the problem," a ministry spokesman told The AssociatedPress. Any formal Israeli statements on the subject would 
be made by Foreign Minister Yitzhak Shamir, currently in the United States, he added. Secretary of State George P. Shultz said Saturday that Washington would withdraw delegations and withhold pay­ments to the General Assembly and the International Telecom· munications Conference in Nairobi if those groups voted to expel Israel. In Nairobi, the balloting on the Algerian-sponsored resolution to expel Israel from the communications conference was scheduled for today. Chi.ef U.S. delegate Michael Gardner said he has sent 
copies ofShultz's statement to the heads ofall delegations. -AP 
President Reagan wants to expand grain exports to help overcome a grave U.S. farm crisis, the official Soviet news agency Tass said in a commentary that made no mention ofReagan's offer to sell the Soviets more grain. Reagan, in a speech Friday, of­fered to guarantee the Soviet government up to 23 million tons of 
U.S. 
grain this fiscal year if the Kremlin signs contracts by Nov. 3 to take deliveries within 180 days. Reagan said he wanted to restore the 

U.S. 
reputation as a "reliable supplier" and regain a bigger share of the world markets following the Carter administration's embargo on grain sales to the Soviet Union after Soviet troops entered Afghanis­tan in 1979. Large Soviet purchases under the offer also would prop up the price of U.S. grain at a time when farmers are feeling a severe economic pinch, U.S. officials said. The 23 million tons would be 15 million tons above the current maximum level the Soviets could import without additional U.S. approval. Moscow is expected to need the extra amount to compensate for another poor harvest this year, the fourth in a row. -AP 


Minnesota Republican Senator Dave Durenberger and his wealthy Democratic challenger, Mark Dayton, have set a national record -nearly S8 million -for spending in a 
U.S. 
Senate campaign, according to reports filed with the Federal Election Commission. The $7.85 million total for the two major can­didates in Minnesota eclipses the previous record of 57.72 million, set in 1978 during Republican Sen. Jesse Helms' successful re­election battle against Democrat John R. Ingram in North Carolina. Helms spent S7.4 million in that race, but a sizable portion went to his fund-raiser, Richard Viguerie. Among other high-spendingSenate races this year are California and probably Texas. Democrat Edmund 

G. 
Brown Jr. and Republican Pete Wilson spent a combined total S7.3 million through Sept. 30. -AP 


The final COntigent from the Oct. 7 airlift of Viet­namese children fathered by U.S. servicemen arrived in Hong Kong yesterday en route to the United States. Officials said the group of about 30 Amerasian children and Vietnamese relatives were to arrive today in Seattle. Volunteer agencies coordinating the exit program did not give an exact number of children and relatives. Twenty-four children and 22 of their Vietnamese relatives left Ho Chi Minh City, formerly Saigon, on Oct. 7. Twenty children and relatives left previously. Vietnam, attempting to improve relations with Washington, recently said that all the Vietnam War-era children ofAmerican fathers can go to the United States. Some ofthe children are being reunited with their fathers while others and their relatives are staying with sponsors arranged through volunteer agencies. 
AP 
Security forces looking for Basque terrorists fired on a car that failed to stop at a checkpoint near Vitoria, Spain. killing hmh occupants of the vehicle, police said yesterday. A man was seriously wounded 111 a similar incident at Lasarte near San Sebastian, police said. Both shootings happened Saturday in nor .thern Spain. where the terrorist group ETA is fighting for Ba..~que autonomy from the central government. Police also reported eight bombings acro~s Spain early yesterday. One person was reported slightly injured. Au­thorities did not say whether the bombings were related or who claimed responsibility. Two blasts wrecked powc:-r transformers near San Seba..~tian; one blast destroyed the entrance to Socialist Workers Party offices in Logrono; another bomb exploded outside the national Social Security Institute in Barcelona. The four other bomb explosions were all against bank offices, two in Valencia and one in Gijon and Oviedo. -AP 
A businessman in Beckley, West Virginia, faced 
with declining saks says he'd like to give the pre,.ident's son a job 
sellingcars. Charlie Earehart, owner ofthe AMC-Renault automobile 
dealership in Beckley, has offered to hire President Reagan's 23-year­
old son, Ron. The younger Reagan, a ballet dancer, has been collect­
ing unemployment checks since he was temporarily laid offfrom the 
Joffrey Ballet company in New York. He is scheduled to be back at 
work with the joffrey on Nov. 1. Earehar,56, said he heard on a telei­
sion news show that the young Reagan a was out ofwork. "We've got 
plenty ofcars I think he could sell. He could ballet around these cars 
a little, see the West Virginia mountains." Earehart said. Reagan's 
home phone number is not listed and there was no answer yesterday 
atJoffrey offices in New York. -AP 
Partly sunnyand warm today with highs in the mid and upper 60~ and southerly winds from lO to 15 mph. fair and ll:lild.....,...nmlows mlilt-.pu 40s or low 50s. 
-AP 
Monday, October 18, 1982 -page 2 



The Information Explosion 
An engineer or scientist "who says he's keeping up 
with the latest information in his field is either a fool or a 
damn liar." 
So says Notre Dame's Robert Gordon, research in­
formation expert and vice president for advanced 
studies. And Gordon wouldn't kid about a thing like 
this. 
The so-called information explosion that developed 
after World War II has been showering fragment after 
fragment of specialized information over the scientific 
community to a point where existing structures for in­
formation management are vastly inadequate. 
Engineers and scientists are paid for what they know. 
If they rely primarily on the knowledge they absorb in 
college, and maybe a journal or two, then as engineer­
author Steve Ross predicts, "they are doomed to early 
technical obsolescence." 
The information explosion began innocuously 
enough in 1948 when Harry Truman asked U.S. Depart­
ment of Commerce Secretary Henry Wallace to start 
sorting through the German and Japanese scientific 
documents confiscated during World War II. Truman 
asked Wallace to start distributing the non-classified in­
formation to industry and government research 
agencies. The Office of 
Technical Service grew out 
of Wallace's efforts. 
By that time, the Cold War 
and increased government 
contracts had caused 
American researchers to 
start pumping out the in­
formation. It seemed 
reasonable, then, to use the 
same system that Wallace 
had developed for the war 
information to distribute 
this new American research. 
Boom. Add Sputnik and mix. The information explo­sion was born. 
It has grown up now to a point where individual en­gineers and scientists can­not single-handedly collect, read, and absorb all the information any more. A scien­tist or engineer must have the freshest information and data possible, and often that information may just have been published that week. 
So engineers and scientists have two problems before 
them: they must first become aware ofthe latest articles 
published in their particular area ofexpertise, and then 
actually obtain a copy of the article. Both problems arc 
often formidable. 
Thirty years ago, in fact, the hook Big Science-Little Science contended that technical information had a half-life often years. Older information wa..o; more or less outdated. Now in 1982, that half-life has certainly decreased. 
What all this means is that existing structures of in­
tormation management and distribution arc experienc­
ing a half-life of their own. 
Technical libraries and industrial research facilities are finding they can no longer rely only on stack~ of outdated hound volumes or a relatively small supply of technical journab arriving in the mail. 
The Observer 

OBSERVER·~ CHAMPIONS OF _H:STICE 
nesign f.'dilor .. j P Kc:\"t"' tht.·In~.·redthk 
.\tan 

/Je.10ign A.HHftllll Pc:tt· and l"om-( l';trlan 
and Jane) 7yfk.•.'ietter . .; ..... H D.-(,.ilh..'r .\eu•.'it'tlltor \likt· Ha'h Copy l:'tllfor t\.ath~ · Iron\\ oman Sf) Day t.~.litor...... ... Cpt Da\'l" Amt·rica SMC /Jay Edito•· . ... Phl~(iC.: \X.'ornen-Ka~~~ 
aru.J :'\iort·en 

Supplement Sex .... ........ \\'onder l.ihhy. AquaChns. Dudh:v Do-Ryan Srstetns Technician ... .. Hrucr-the ~pact' (ihn!oot Features l.uyout ...Joe-nan, the Harharian J::ditorlals Layout Tim the (Jrt·cn Hornet Sports Copy Editor... . ..... Spider ~like 1)•pist.. ..........\tonica-Rat \X'oman Ad IJesign ..... ................. t.;nder·Greg-Dog Photographer..... Diane-the Scarlet Witch Guest Appearances .. Liz, Tim. Boat. Paul· Inspectors for Scotland Yanl. Adam Ant Mar~aret. Usa the Hulk. 
For a limited time only, bring in this coupon and save 50% on all high fashion, high quality frames, including thOse by Oleg casslnl, Christian Dlor, Pierre cardin, Gloria vanderbilt, etc. This coupon must be presented at time glasses are ordered and no other discounts applicable. Offer good on a complete pair of prescription glasses only.

IService OJ!Iicall 
The Eyewear Experts 
concord Mall 875-7472 
The Observer 1USPS S\18 'nOo ,, pubh~hed Monad y through Friday and Lln hL1rne fu, •10dlt Satur'ld rs ex( PDI dunng exam cJnd Vdl.dfton PE'fLLldS The Observer ·~ published by !he studenl5 of Notre Od·nt• and Sa•nt Marys c ... 1eqe SubSLfiPIKons <Tlay De pure hds~d for S25 per yedr 1S1S pf'r se-ne~tcrt by wflhng The Observer P 0 Bux 0 Notre Dame lndoana 46556 
The Observer •S a 'TlE''TlD<" ''' The Associated Press A" repruduct•o" <~ghts are reserved 
Secona r.lasr. posta!;e p<11d at Notre 
~ ln.lo.inoi140':>':>6 
scottsdale Mal!, south Bend 291-2222 offices throughout Indiana 
3

ffi] l iYI! IXAMINATIOIII AVAIL.Aaa IY OPTOIIIITitST I VISA • _ WITH 0f1111C1S ON ......S . 

~-----------------· 

The fact is that libraries simply cannot possess all the technical information that bombards the scientific community annually. The Information Industries As­sociation sars that 500,000 books, 250,000 technical reports, 200,000 dissertations, and another 250,000 periodical series are published each year. 
Even if libraries had unlimited space, the bottom line is that information costs. A lot. The subscription price for some weekly newsletters runs as high as S500. 
Consider, for example, the engineer who walked into the Notre Dame Engineering Library the other day wan­ting the very latest information on dielectric properties ofsilicon carbide existing in individual crystals. The in­formation is definitely out there. But can you find it? Can you get a copy ofit? And can you afford it? 
Engineering Librarian Robert Havlik would say you can. In the last decade, a sys­tematic approach to attack­ing information searches has evolved. But unfortunately, few engineers have the desire to learn what is becoming a dazzling array of search tools. They prefer to leave the nuts and bolts of information searches to the savvy of information specialists in modern, com­puterized libraries. 
The Notre Dame Engineering Library, for ex­ample, has been using a computer hook-up with a Colorado database com­pany, DIALOG, for two 

y~ars. DIALOG is able to index and abstract countless more journals, reports, and books than the typical technical library can. And for a fee, DIALOG provides in a few hours precise and updated bibliographies that would normally take a week to gather by hand. 
To be1sure) t.here are many other information search tools that developed when necessity mothered their in­vention. But the inevitable problem will become -and has already become, to some extent -the inability of 
engineers and scientists to use these information tools. They will need a technical backgroundand an informa­tion background. 
Consequently, the prime jewel of industry and uni­verisities will hecomc a research library that can bridge the gap between int<mnation and the researcher. But while the tools tor information searches are available, 
there does not seem to he a rush in the direction of implementing them. It is a function ofdollars, ofcourse, hut it also is a function ofawareness. 


The Observer 

~Necessary project' 



Escort service reconsidered 
ByJOE INCARDONA 
\'eu•sStaff 
A~ the: early darknc:~s of winter 

nights in South Bend rapidly ap­
proat·hc:s, an important question 
concerning campus security arise:~ 
whatever happened to the 

service that used to provide: escort~ 
for Notre Dame women needing to 
travel across campus late at nighe 
Last ) ear. the: Student Govern­ment undc:r prc:sidc:nt Don Murday saw a need to supplement the escort service offen·d hy Notre Dame Security. They began a program which provided male Mudent~ as es­corts for women who needed to get from the: library to their dorms or to other outlying areas ofthe campus at night. The service originally was run hy memb.:rs of the: Hall President's Council. 
"The whole thing was basically a Student Government project," said HPC PresK.Ient Mike \tcAulifft:. "The HPC mainly just got the people out there to run the service.'' 
After several months of operating 

the service. which saw relatively 
little use, the HPC turned the 
project over to the Notre Dame 
Rugby Club. The club agreed to run 
the escort service as a community 
service project. 
"Our commitment to the Student Government ran from January through April," said Rugby Club President Sean Sullivan. "The service worked out very well for us -we had plenty of participation from our own club members, but I don't think the women used the service to its potential." 
Despite the fact that ·those in­volved with the service expressed the belief that it was not used fre­quently enough, Dean of Students James Roemer said that it is a neces­sary project. "I think that when you have a serious incident on campus 
CLEARWATER. Fla. (AP) -Au­thorities pulled Lavoris mouthwash from the shelves of a store after four bottles were found laced with acid, the latest contamination of a con­sumer product since seven people died from Tylenol capsules contain­ing cyanide. 
Meanwhile, officials in Palm Beach County. Fla., were checking Visine A.C. eye drop~ for possible contamination following complaints from four women that their eyes burned after using the product. A Grand Junction, Colo., man suffered corneal burns Oct. I 1 after using Visine A.C. eye drops that contained hydrochloric acid. 
A teen-ager was arrested in Ken­tucky yesterday after authorities received a letter warning that some food products had been poisoned. and in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, a rural couple was accused of threatening 

Outlawed union 
•


cont'lnuesprotests 
WARSAW. Poland ( AP) -Riot Despite calls for new protests, police with automatic weapons worker compliance with earlier ap­patrolled the steel city ofNowa Huta peals wa.o; spotty. One or two-hour yesterday to prevent further street work stoppages la.~t week appeared fighting. Underground leaders ofthe 
spontaneous and wer:e resolved
banned Solidarity union said through discussion. An appeal forworkers in four cities will stay at strikes in Warsaw and Krakow washome today in a new protest action. 
largely ignored.
Black-bordered funeral notices 

appeared in Nowa Huta, a Krakow The biggest protests so far were suburb where street clashes erupted two eight-hour strikes in Gdansk, three nights running last week. which collapsed Wednesday after stating Bogen Wlosik. 20, would be authorities threatened up to five buried Wednesday -one week af­years imprisonment for workers 
ter being shot hy police during who refused to obey orders. violent protests. 
Archbishop jozef Glemp, who Official sources in Krakow said heads Poland's Roman Catholic 

the funeral could raise new tensions, Church, said Saturday that outlaw­adding a t1rm date probably would ing Solidarity had removed all 
not be set until today, despite the privately printed notices. His death, chances of dialogue and left Poles officials said, remains under inves­with a "zero option, not only in the tigation. realm of trade unions hut in the: 
Wlosik, who worked at the Lenin general situation." Steel Works in Nowa Huta, was the to inject insecticide into grocery 
items. 
In Chicago, the search for leads in 

the deaths of seven area resident~ 
who took Extra-Strength Tylenol 
laced with cyanide turned 
nationwide. Authorities are seeking 
a fugitive suspected of trying to ex­
tort s 1 million from the manufac­
turer ofTylenol, and police: say they 
want to see if there is any reason to 
connect him with the killings. 
Police in Clearwater said yester­

day that whoevt'r put acid in the four 
bottles of Lavoris found in an Al­
bertsons store in Belleair Bluffs mav 
have gotten the idea from th~ 
Chicago killings. 
A tourist from Massachusetts suf­

fered minor mouth hums Thursday 
after ht' took a swig from a honle of 
Lavoris hought at the store:. lie spit 
out the mouthwash, police ~aid. 
\talcolm MacGruer, a spokesman 

for Rkhardson Vicks Inc. of Wilton. 
Conn., the maker of the mouthwa.o;h, 
said yeste::rday that tests showed 
muriatic acid had been added to four 
six-ounce bottles of cinnamon­
flavored Lavoris found at the store. 
Clearwater Police Lt. Wayne Sib­

bert said about 40 bottles of Lavoris 
were removed from the: shelves and 
storeroom of the: Alhertsons. 
MacGruer called the contamination 
an isolated incident and said the 
mouthwa~h was pulled only at the 
Belleair Bluffs store:. 
Authorities in Palm Beach County expect results later this week from teMs done on four bottles of Visine 
A.C eye drops after women com­plained that their eyes burned for hours when they used the: product, said Dale Tavris, a county health department physician directing the investigation. 
State health officials have tested the contents of the four bottles in Lantana and say the solutions ap­peared normal, but they planned fur­ther tests. 
Two of the: women used bottles with lot number 122, the same num­ber as two bottles ofVisine A.C. con· taminated with hydrochloric acid in \te~a County, Colo., Tavris said. 
first person to die in street fighting since Parliament outlawed the Soviet bloc's only free labor union 
ATTENTION on Oct. H. tiis was the: I 5th riot­related death since martial law was 
Interviews for LAW SCHOOL 
imposed Dec. 13. W'itnesses touring Nowa Huta on 

Room 122 Administration Bldg.
Saturday said police virtually had oc­cupied the city. and security was so tight only small children could bring 

CREIGHTON> Monday,Oct.IS
flowers to the spot where Wlosik was shot. A memorial of candles, 

YALE TODAY!
flags and flowers there was swept away by police Friday night. Sources wih contacts in the 
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;.;:;:;:;:::::::::::::;:::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::;.;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:::::::::::: 
Solidarity underground said workers in Nowa Huta, Krakow, Gdansk and Warsaw planned to stay 
SOUTHERN METHODIST home today to protest the Solidarity ban and the government's new law 
Thur., Oct 21 
restricting union activities. 
,. 
-
,.· 
Monday, October 18, 1982 page 3 

Members of the New York Ci~l' Police Department's Hostal!,e Negotiating Team aid Orestos Castro, center, after be was freed Thursday afternoon by a prisoner who bad seized five hostages earlier in the day at King's Coun~}' Hospital in BrookZvn. N.Y. (AP Photo) 
**********************************~ 
~ ~ The ObserYer-,_-,---: * 
* accepting applications tor the position ot * 
~ E~~2~ti~~ N~;; Edit~; ~ 
* :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.;:;.;.;:;:;.:-: * 
:Deadline tor applications is 5 p.m. Tuesday, :** Oct. 19. For more into, -: * : contact Michael Monk, 239,7471 * 
t ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••t 

Vote for your 



favorite comic strip! 
Use the ballot 
this 
Thursday in 



=Dte Observer:.­
like a rape. then everyone regrets not having the servin:." Roemer said. "It is unfortunate, hut there may he situations when women arc: attacked this year: we cannot escape the real world. I would hope that in times like this there would be stu­dent interest in providing such a service for Notre: Dame women." 
Roemer empha.~ized, however. that the administration is committed to providing its own escort service:. and that Notre Dame Security "will continue: to provide an escort service: for :'liotrc: Dame: women needing to get somewhere on 
campus late at night." The: advantagl' of the student-run est·ort service:. he said. i~ that ir <•iw·' ft·nJale ~tudc:nts "the opportunitY to hl· walked home: hy one of their 'peers.·· The student e~cort service also b a little more convenient than ND Security's, a~ it takes Security several minutes to get to the place from which a girl needs to be escorted. 
Although it appears that thi~ year's Student Government will bring hack the escort service:. it ha.~ not yet been decided who will run it. "We're not really ~urc: who's going to run the escort service: this year," 
~aid Student Body \'icc-President Bob Yonchak. "We're: going to see if the Rugby Cluh is interested in doing it again. and ifthey're: not we'll turn it over to the IIPC." 
Police find poisoned 111outhwash in .Blorida 

The Observer Monday, October 18, 1982 -page 4 

Florida during tbe noon hour. There were no deaths reported but several nearby buildings were evacuated. (AP Photo) 
By BEN HUSSMANN 
/liews Staff 
"The missing ingredient in ending world hunger is will," said janis Mar· tin. regional coordinator for The Hunger Project, during a seminar yesterday afternoon at !\1oreau Semi· nary. 
The Hunger Project is a non·protlt organization who~e aim is to provide complete and correct in· formation about starvation in the world today in order to end global hunger by 199...,. They strive to ed· ucate individuab about the probll:m of world hunger and then let each decide what action he or she will take·. The Hunger Project provides options for participation in the or· ganization. 
The Hunger Project is not overtly 
political, .\lartin emphasized; rather, 
it hopes to create world-wide senti· 
ment to end hunger by changing at· 
titudes and dispelling myths. 
\Iartin addressed several of these myths directly. One of the most widespread myths that prevents en­ding world hunger is the notion that there is too little food to feed the 
IF YOU THINK IT DOESN'T MATIER WHERE YOU GET CONTACTS, YOU OUGHT TO HAVE 



YOUR EYES 
Where you choose to get your contact lenses can make a difference. At NuVision, we do everything to make the experience of getting contacts a pleasant one. It starts with a thorough eye examination by a Doctor of Optometry. The examination he administers is specifically designed to evaluate your eyes so he can write your prescription for contact lenses. 
We offer the latest developments in contact lenses at NuVision. Ask about them. The Doctor of Optometry will take the time to explain the differences and recommend the best one for your vision. 

• 
After selecting the right lenses for you, a Nu Vision professional will make sure you are comfortable with them. Whether you're wearing hard lenses, soft lenses, gas permeable lenses, or the new extended wear lenses, we'll make sure you know how to put them on, and how to care for them. 
Nu Vision offers contact lenses at reasonable prices. But what makes us different is our own brand of care. From eye examination through follow-up visits you get professional care at NuVision. So when you've decided you want contacts, come to Nu Vision. The difference is dear. 
SOFT CONTACT LENSES 
from Bausch &t lomb and American Hydron Bausch &t lomb and Ammcan Hydron Spherical Soft Contacts are now just S49. Price includes: 
$49 

Introductory CMe Kit; 30-day Trial COMPLETE Wearing Plan; Follow-up Visits. 

234-3123 
LaSalle Square SOUTH BEND 

277-2281 
University Commons MISHAWAKA 
We put the care back in eyecare. 

256-1864 
McKinley Town & County MISHAWAKA 

Under the direction of Dr. Eli Shapiro. 0.0. 


Seminar discusses Hunger Project 
'·, 
entire world population. She refuted this myth by quoting excerpts from many studies conduding that there is sufficient food to ked the world, but that lack ofdesire prevents a sys· tematic attempt to ameliorate the malnutrition problem. 
A sense that hunger is an in· evitable part of the human ex· perience also b detrimental to solving the hunger problem. \lartin stated that many people feel it is "useless" to eliminate hunger and have. in effect. "given up before they've started... She cited evidenn· 
that shows current world tood 
production is sutllcient to feed i bil­
lion people. The problem is one of 
distributing this food to the entire 
population of-1 billion people. 
\1artin suggests that nations and peoples of the world must adopt a "you and me" cooperative view­point as opposed to the current "you or me" viewpoint held by many na­tions if world hunger is to he 
eliminated. 
...In depth 
continuedfrom page 1 

"Through aiming at people run­ning for national office, we hope to 
int1uence legislators the next time that the freeze proposal comes up before Congress," said Mewes. The first attempt to ratif)· the measure was defeated in the House by two votes. 
On a local level. he said the peti· 
tion drive was originally hoping to 
muster 5,000 votes, yet managed to 
gather over 12,000 by the time of 
last week's press contert·nccs. 
Mewes emphasized that the key 
element of the drive revolved 
around its organization on a local 
level. "lising a gra.~sroots approach, 
we plan to start at the bottom and 
percolate up to the top." With one 
representative for each district, 
"each group runs its own campaign 
as it sees tit,.. he said. 
"The overall purpose of the peti· 
tion is to show it (the nuclear­
weapon freeze) is a viable, political 
issue -to show that the people are 
interested," said Mewes. 

He admitted. however, that pa.~sage of the proposal would only be a transitory step toward achiev­ing an actual nuclear-weapon freeze since "even ifthe measure succeeds, it can only serve as just a recom­mendation to the President; Reagan is in now way bound to institute it." The Constitution dictates that a foreign policy decision of this stat­ure must be proposed by the Presi­dent and ratified by the Senate. 
"Reagan is definitely the key per­
son in the whole process. If he sees 
that the public is resolved to have a 
(nuclear-weapon) freeze, then per­
haps he'll support it." 

Unlike previous strategic arms limitation treaties, "this (freeze proposal) will be easy, to verify since neither country will be allowed to build anything, which makes any (nuclear weapon) con!'truction easy to detect," he said. "This is a well · thought out plan: simple, but not simplistic." 
As a follow-up procedure, he said 
that an attempt is un.derway to seek 
financial support for the drive. chief­
ly through grants, i~ividual dona­
tions, and a mail carhpaign. "After 
the elections, we'll start groups 
throughout Indiana on a fiOm'Punity 
level," he added. ., ' 
Mewes urged those concerned 
with the issue to voice their opinion 
through writing their congressman. 
"We have a long way 'o go statewide and nationwide, but showing sup· port at the community level is the key (to s~ccess)." . 

.. 
,.. 
,.· 
-------· --·---···­

The Observer Monday, October 18, 1982-page 5 
Atmosphere facilities 

CLC studies social problems 
ByJIM COONEY 
.\'eu•s Staff 
The key to solving the campus so­cial life prohlem lies in a more effi­cient use of La Fortune student center, the Campus Life Council concurred at its meeting Thursday afternoon. 
Aided hy a slide show, John Gal­lagher. a memher of a team which studied the conditions at various campuses, demonstrated various ways in which the student centers of Villanova, \"anderhilt, lll-Chicago Circle, Duke, and Northwestern provide hetter services to their respective communities. :'l.lotre Dame wa.-. declared deficient in providing social space, meeting rooms, and an atmosphere con­ducive to socializing in comparison with universities ofcomparahlc size. 
Innovations such as a food se:vice which provides a· variety of foods such as Greek or \lcxican. pizza or cold cuts were reviewed. The Coun­cil abo examined differenl social atmospheres such as the lounge at 

video screen. The Council doesn't 
necessarily advocate such innova­
tions, but is searching for al­
ternatives to the present use of La 
Fortune. 
Although the possihility of con­structing a new student center was raised, Father John \"an Wolvlear, vice-president of student affairs, ad­mitted that any construction of a new student center is contingent on the upcoming PACE report. which will outline the plans of the l'niver­sity for the next ten years. He also added that memhers of the PACE committee interviewed student~ and that the report would not ignore the issue ofsocial space. 

Student Body Pre~idcnt Lloyd Burke insisted that ,oJving the social problem on t·ampu~ required ·a "comprehensive program"' which addressed all facets of campus life. .\lemhcrs ofthe Council agre<:d that a more constructin· plan ~hould he adopted to tackle the prohlcm. and 
that this plan he ha~ed on healthier 
demonstration by soccer great, Pete, tbat took place in the White 
House Rose Garden Thursday. (.4P Photo)
Lou Gehrig's disease 
Man talks with eyebrow muscles ------------------1 
MUNCIE. Ind (AP)-After two vo1celess years, Paul Strong can "talk" again hy using his cychrow muscles to call up letters and num­hers on a computer screen. Strong was stricken in 1979 with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis -Lou Gehrig's disca.'c -whi~h causes victims to lose control over muscle movement. So far there is no cure. Until recently Strong, who is paralyzed and confined to a ho~pital hed. could communicate only by looking up to indicate "yes" and clo~ing his eyes to say "no."' :'liow. hccmse of a computer therapy program de~igned hy a group of Ball \lc:morial Hospital employc:e~. he can s.1y anything he wantt. with a few llip~ ofa switch. The "hrow wrinkle switch" is at­tached to the forehead and activated hy movement of the . eyehrow muscles. By using his muscles to llip the switch. Strong can call up the at­phahct and numbers zero through nine. Another movement allows him to scan the characters and select numhcrs and letters to create messages. In addition. he can direct the com­
...SADD 
continuedfrompage 1 
safely." She recognizes that once a person is drunk, it may be difficult to convince them not to drive, hut en­

courages calling a cab or refusing to ride with a drunk friend. 
SADD's next meeting will be Sun., Nov. "7 at 2:00 P.M., tentatively scheduled in Keenan's Hofman lounge. Selvaggi and Como 
"welcome anyone to come to our meetings to learn about drunk driving." Those interested may call Selvaggi at 283-3376 or Como at 237·4371 for more information. 
~---------------~-~
FREE CAR WASH 

AT DICK'S STANDARD 
On corner across irom Corby's and Bridgett's 
Bring in coupon . ·good thru 10/23/82 

----------------~ 
puterto pnnt hi~ m<:ssagcson aspe­e~al printer and to activate electronic voice cquiprncnr so that he can express himself vocally. The team hoped the computer ~vould "otfer Paul something to look forward to each day." said Dr. Ross L. Egger. Strong's physician and a neawr of the program. "I also fdt it would provide him with a series of challenges which. as he masters them, will provide him with more control over his environment. "It also might help us lind out mor<.· ahout how a patit.'IH in Paul'~ situation feels and thinks. Such in· l(>rmation could he verv hdoful in the care of otlier Al5 t;r pa;alyzed patients,"' he said. llillcary Brown. a biomedical technician. said the team b lilrtunatc to have Strong as its tlrst patient be· cause he's 1;1miliar with the techno!­ogy. "Paul worked with computers at Warner (;ear, where he w;L' employed heti>rc he was stricken with AIS. He enjoys computers and fin<.b them fascinating," said \Is. Hrown. who is working on a new. more diverse: program. ''I'd like to sec Paul he able to usc 

interaction hetween the administra­tion and students. 
Included in the plan would be the development of the Alumni Cluh­Senior Har a.o; an alternative social space. DeanJames Roemer saw great potential in the har a.o; a gathering place for all students, not simply seniors. l'nfortunately, an attempt to hring underclassmen 10 the Bar last Sunday night hrought only two stu· dents; Roemer called tor a more creative campaign 10 attract stu­dents to the Bar, which will be open to undercla.~smen, without serving alcoholic he\·erages, on designated nights. 
Other sources of hope were ack­nowlegcd. The rc<:cntly opened tlower shop. The Irish Gardens. is considered a step in the right direc­tion, hecause it uses space that was not heing used before. as well as providing a servi<:e to students. The 
1
Chautauqua Lounge in La Fortune provides another source ofsocial ac­tivity. With development. it could enhance the appeal of La Fortune. Hurkc noted. 
President Ronald Reagan prepares to toss a sneer hall during a 
I 
the computer to turn h1s TV on and off. to change the channels. to talk on the telephone and to turn his room lights on and off." she said. Hut St rong"s muscles gradually are weakening. so he may lose the ahilit~· · to control his eyebrowmuscle~ and. (."(msequently. to use the program. Because of that, team mcmhcr~ say they're now looking h>r methods other than muscle mon:ment to activate the computer. Although the program is working wc:ll ft>r Strong. it's not the answer for e'·t:ryone. agree:~ the te:tm, whk"h also lllcluu<.·s Ed <khs. bionH:dical <.kpartment -.upcrvisor: :O.tevc Ruster, a rt.·gisternl nurse and head of the surgical servil·c:-. dcpart­ment; .\tel Hrannon. an electrician: aml.Juh Stac,·. a rq~istcred nurse. "Patients with exaggerated fears of computers or technology who would be subjected to great negative stress during the familiarization process would not be good candidates for computer therapy," Ochs said. "Also, the com­putcr !'>)'Stem cannot be allowed to providt.: an alternative to the patient li>r necessary physical exercise or other therapy." 

Just Before Nightfall ( 19 ... 1 ) Claude Chahral. fr:ux:c. color, 
100 min in frem:h 'AiCh EnJtb!~>h !'IUbtitle~ Chahr:d pu!r~ht'!'l Hiu:ht:oc.:lo.ian tdcnlificauon wilh lht criminal tu an 1ronk t:'Xtrrme m thb film ahout ,. man who ha.' an aftiur wilh hi!~~ bc'M trientl"\ •·iff!' anc.J ac c.:u..lenu.lly k.•ll~ her E\'er~·une exonerou~ him. tna1 ht-u•auls 10 be fount.! ~ui11~ 
Admission

'-Annen berg Aud.,Snite Museum $ 2. o o ~
9pm_ _...__, ,............•................•.....................•..............: 
.

DISCOUNT SAVINGS .
.
.

CONTACT LENSES .. 
.

Replacements Or Spare 
.
.

Eye Contact's low annual membershtp fee of $12.50 entitles you to obtatn 
.

replacement or addittonal NAME BRAND soft, hard, or speciahy lenses . 
and accessory care products at a substantoal sav1ngs sot! lenses (regular) $24..1J5each 
hard lenses (regular) $14.95 each accordmg to your doctor s prescnpt10n. m sealed conta1ners with prompt serv1ce and a money-b8c:k guarantee 
Join now and recetve an eye care gift pack and our accessory price list. 
DON'T WAIT, CALL TODAY FOR IMMEDIATE SERVICE 1 800 255-2020 (Toll Free) VISA. MASTERCARD or COD orders accepted 
Fam1ly membership fee discount available Everyth1ng you II need 1n replacement contact lenses -Except the h1gh cost ­

EYE CONTACT 
.
. 

P.O. Box 7770 Shawnee Minion, KS 66207 
'·················~~················································ 


~fllf?f§~ .t\J(J§(§~ ief?el~lJ?~U~llf
CHIMES t
t l

t _ _ ' 
welcomes all con!nbutlons Of.
t Prose Pnotograpnv.
t


t 1 . . 1 
SUbmit tO: ROOm 310 f
\L MOdOleva l Sf. MOry, S ' f 
,. 

Interestedin Law School? 
A representative of 
Creighton University School of Law 
will be on campus Oct. 18, 1982 tointerview interested students 
For information, Please contact Evelyne Major Placement Bureau , 239-5200 
UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS 

M.B.A. 
Students of All Majors and Fields Invited Come to our meetings to hear about our M.B.A. and Ph.D. Programs and to ask any questions about the curriculum, admission, financial aid, and career op­portunities available in the following fields of manage­
ment:  
Finance  Health Administration  
Economics  Public and NonProfit  
Marketing  Human Resources  
Accounting  Management Science  
General Management  Policy  

MONDA~NOVEMBERI,ln2 Contact Placement Bureau for Sign-ups 

The Observer Monday, October 18, 1982 -page 6 


ABOVE: Tim Delaney strips 
u•allpaper in Mabel Hall's bouse.
.. t 
...,..... 
!<;~,~~~ 

LEfT: }IJabe/'s dog Hennan. 

BELOW: The dried }lowers from ,Habel's mother'sji~neral. 
In South Bend 






Students assist local poor 

VOCATION RETREAT 
Theme -Discerning God's Call Focus -Religious I ife as a Brother Place -Columba Hall, Notre Dame Dates -Nov. 5-7, Friday 8:30pm to Sunday 12:30 pm Contact-Br. David Baltrinic, c.s.c. 
103 Columba Hall Notre Dame, IN.46556 
(219) 239-7830' 


EDITOR'S NOTE--The fol/ou•ing is 
thefirst in a series ofarticles about 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­
dent~' itwolvement in the South .Bend CommunitJ•. 
By RYAN VER BERKMOES 
.Hanaging Editor 
For two elderly South Bend 

women, the help received from 
several Dillon residents makes the 
prospect of another winter of 
poverty bearable. 
The students, under the guidance 

of Philip :0.1anz, a junior from St. 
Louis, have spent the past several 
Friday afternoons performing basic 
repairs on the homes of the two 
women. Manz became interested in 
helping the urban poor after an Ur­
ban Plunge he took as a freshman. 
According to Manz, "the southeast 
neighborhood is an area where no 

one se~:ms to be doing alot. It is a 
preny had part of town... , 
:'>label Hall b a twice divorced 

widow who lives entirely on public 
aid. ller last husband died over a 
year ago, since then she has been 
bolstering her income with money she gets making comforters tor nurs· ing home patients. Because of a number of health problems. \label flail is unable to work. She does. however, volunteer to colln·t money for the Salvation Army during the Christmas season. \lahd's t:tce lights up when she describes ringing the Salvation Army hell because. as she says, "It's the one time I get to me~:t people and help others." 
The house shows the elfects of years of neglect. \label's physical condition has prevented her from doing any real cleaning. Her small, t1ve-room house b tilled with items she has collected during her life. On a table she has a bouquet of now dried flowers from her mother's funeral this past summer. The walls have numerous layers of paint and wallpaper that are now brown and peeling. She has taped pages from the South Bend Tribune over the windows to afford some privacy. 
:\label ha~ several children who live locally. Her face clouds as she talks about them. "They really don't come around much, they arc all trying to get hy themselves. I do have a I 5-year-old daughter, hut he­cause ofmy conditions here, the city has placed her in a ti>ster home. I wish I could get her back." 
In order 10 qualify ti>r city housing aid, Mabel's house tir~t must have all !he old paint and wallpaper scraped otf and replaced with fresh paint. Students so far have painted one room with paint \1ahel saved her money to purchase. She abo.is trying to purchase the house, whi<:h she rents. from her landlord ti>r S_'WOO by next year. 
Fixing up Louise Bennett's hou!'C is a more difficult task. She has iived alone in the large house since her husband's death in 1963. Since then she has been sick frequently and has heen able to do less and less to care for herself 
Louise has heen the victim of several crime!>. A few months ago some people attempted to enter her house hy breaking out her windows with a 2-by--t. Her great dane's barking stopped them; however, the people returned and killed the dog with acid. For this reason, Louise does not let her two remaining dogs and four cats out very often. As a result, animal droppings litter the in· terior. 
Two stret·t lights that used to il­luminate Louise'!> yard were recently turned oil hy the city in a cost-cutting move. Louise admits, "I am afraid to go outside. but I hate to see them destroy things." 
The first project the students have tackled is to secure the house. They hav~: rt·paired the damage done by vandab, and replaced rortnl boards. However, the house suffers from a number ofstructural defects, includ­ing a leaky roo( that arc beyond the ;cope ofthe volunteers ability to fix. 
Louise, who wants the children of the neighborhood to call her Aunt Louise, says her biggest worry in life is "not the crime, but the kids in this area who are too poor 10 get any Christm;c, gifts." She spends her time making small toys to give to them. 
According to ,'\;lann, the biggest 
problem he faces is gaining the 
women's trust. "They are very suspi­
cious, they have had people come 
along offering to help, and then 
causing havoc." Also, he ha~ to keep 
hi!> volunteers from drastically alter­
ing the conditions of the people they 
help. "What looks like piles of junk 
n> us are trea~ures to them," says \lanz. 
Louise's attitude is typified by the piles of moldy bread in her kitchen. "I don't eat much, and I hate to throw things out, besides the birds will need it this winter." 
When asked why they \\ere wil­ling to give up thc:ir Friday after­noons to work for these two women. each volunteer had the same response, "I wanted to help." 
"If I could get the whole dorm he­hind me it· would be great. we could do so much." savs .\1anz. 


Otherdorins, activities! 
Each dorni Oil campus 1'!25 a.Ci)llltnUnity S<rVi(:e.(:OillOliSS.t()OC(': ln additi()n t() thewor:k being done by Dillon H~ll, many ofthe othe.r halts are active h1 tire commi!nity. · · · 
Student:s from Planner are W()tking do-wntown at .the l.a (:asa · Youth<~entet. Tiley also are active With the Child AbuseandNeglect 
· Coalld&o. . ·. · ·.. · ·· Besides Dillbn J:iall~. K.t:cnan is ten()v-.tting hOuses for .the poor. Vohmteets fr()m Zahm are painting houses belonging tothe elderJy. Severl!l resldeurs ()fl.ewis: are cheetlng the ag~ thrqugh the .Hlderty Buddies Prograrii. ..•.. Anew setviee at SaintEd's ts tbe jail Mh:tm.:ry. Residents travel to 
.. localprlsons to stv.e coun<:iling t() the PriSOners, 
Maril}'n Bellis of the Vollil:lteer Service Orgamzation saysth~ par­ticipation. varicsfr.9~~?9'1-~<> 1-\Q.tT;howcvet'idds. ''Iwould llkf.to .see everyone do~metbing,·l:ftett's $(:) mt,td:tJ9!J?.'' . 
: . :·:. .<: :·::. ~ ::.. ·.. . . . : .. · . . . . . . . . . . . . 
·.. ,:j 
ABOVE: Kirk Flittie, left; and Frank Drigotas, right; repair Louise Bemzett's windows. BELOW: Mabel Hall. (All photos this page by Scott Bower) 

~~--------------~--~----~--RP~----~~~~--~------.-~~----.-.----.----~------------------~---~,.. ,.· 
Monday, October 18, 1982-page 7






Editorials 
When the door's locked, use the window 
I got lod.nl out of Ill) .-oom again \ t·~tlT dav. I['' a l'OOJOJI)n OCCllJTeiH:C:. e\'t:f '-illlT I movnl from (;r.ttT llall to lloh Cro""· In (,race. one mu"t actualh turn thc kt·, in the lock to throw thc holt. ami thcn:I(Jrt· it i~ al· mo"t impo"~ihk to lod. oru:"df out Holy 
Joe Musumeci 
looking In 
Cros". on the otht:r hand, usc" the sort oflocb which remain either locked or unlocked until one turns the little button on the inside; it is a simpie matter to walk into one's room and out a~ain. forgetting to actually unlock it. 
My rector has suggested that I move back to Grace. where provisions have been made for simpletons such as myself :\1y mother men· tioned the possibility of ha,·ing my room and car keys surgically implanted in my fingertips. 
M) roommate cast his vote for a frontal lobotomy. 
I sat dismally outside my room and pon­dt:red these and other possibilities, waiting for nn roonunatc or the iooth ta1n to t·xtral'l me from mv prnlicamcnt ( ont· can only go to hi~ RA. or rector ~o many tinJC~ nd(>rt· na~t\ 'torie' ~tart nrnrlating ).and 11 otTurred to mt· that the ...nuation w~L' mort· than a lillie ludiCrou,. \X'In wa' I ~itring out,idc mv own room. walling t(>r ~OllJC:ont· el~e to kt me in' D.tmn it. it'-.mJ• room' I han· .t right to ht· in it. no matter how absentminded I mav he It i~ there h>r thc 'ole purpo~c of mv shdtc:r (until ~uch a time a' I tind shdtn that inclmk~ heat). 
I thought on the~e and many other trivial and silly things as I 'at mournfully lockt•d outside the place that i" 'upposed to he there t(Jr me. and Icame to a sudden realization: thi" is a lot ofwhat being a :'l:otre Dame student is all about; no. what being a college student is all about. 
Ht:re we arc. paying what. not so long ago. would have bought a small house, to ensconce ourselves in Ellerbe and Ellerbe's stunted im­itation ofivory towers; meanwhile, we submit ourselves to a moral and political ;(r'btocracy which rivals anything the Piers or Huns were· able to concoct in a much more liberal cul­tural setting. 
Tht· I'nin:rsity thank~ u~ for keeping it in hu,int·'~ hy tdling u' what we may 'tudy and wht·n ..,,. nla) study it. when: we may live. t'\ en v. hat \\T an· allowed to eat (why the pn·,enn: of ,hredded ham in potato mash prohihll~ one from t·ating it with a pork chop. I \\ rll rwver under~tand) and who may bt: in our li\'ing quarter' after the witching hour. 
Wait. What did I say' "The l'niversity thanks u~ I(Jr keeping it in bu~ine~s ..." That's tht• problc:m. then. \X'e don't keep the University in business anymore ... :-.lo. it's deeper than that. The root ofall these evils goes back to ... to when .. when the I·niversity became a busines~. When Fr. ~orin came to a pair of lake~ and "aid. "This would he a neat place to educate the youth in the ways of our tradi­tions" I doubt he envisioned lighting con­tracts for national television or military grants to discover how faM buidings will topple, come Armageddon time. 
What has happened to the l'niversity is that, somewhere along the twisting path of "progress", the ideal of higher education has had to join the real world of red and black to survive -to the point that. if we all left tomorrow. the l'nivcrsity would continue as a corporate t•ntit~. t•mpty of student" but rite with prolit margin". Tht· room ha." had to ht· locked and bolted. to prevent thieve~ from coming in and making off with the contents. 
I sat outside my room a little longer. think· ing of it empty. without me. Shin·ring in my bathrobe. I walked outsiut·: I jimmied tht· win· dow and nawled inside. 
If ever you feel that the corporate weight of the university is too stifling to allow you to do what you came here to do. don't he afraid to crawl through some windows; thert· is still something quiet and warm and real inside. 


letters policy 
Editor's Note: Letters should be brief and deal with specific issues. They must be typed and bear the address, telephone number and signature of the author. Initials and pseudo­nyms arc not acceptable. Reproductions. carbon copies. or letters addressed to per­sons other than the editor are not accept· able. All letters are subject to editing. 
P.O. Box Q  
DearEditor: It seems that my article in The Obsen,er last semester, "What is a DOMER?" did not put a dent into the thick skulls of the stu­dents. After all, a student will only be here for four years-what can he do? Well, this is not my attitude and I'll be here for two more years. Last year, I lost a very close friend from Saint Mary's -not because ofdeath. hut be­cause ~he was very unhappy here. To put it bluntly, "she did her own thing." And everybody knows to be accepted here, you have to be like everyone else -a robot; therefore, she did not fit in with the "domers" or "smick chicks." Another friend of mint· is seriously think­ing about transft erring from :-.lotrc Dame to a school closer to home. It is not because of a money problem; it is because ofhow the stu­dents act. The majority of students (girls in her dorm) "booze it up·• even on the week  Practice what you preach days. and the guys that she meets just brag to Who I really fed sorry for is the freshman her about how many beers that they can class because they are becoming brain­chug in one minute or how fast they can washed by the upperclassmen in their "jump into bed" .. .I hope that this article dorms to become or not to become what the will change her (and others) mind( s) and hall wants them to be; for example, Dillon, that she ~ril give it four years. Alumni, Holy Cross. and Howard I do not know how other people feel stereotypes. Get off the stereotypes ... about it, but I and my friends are sick of the phoniness here with the students. For an ex­Even though my friend will be reading this ample, look at The Obsert•er this past. month. article, she still ha.~ her mind set on transfer­with such great ar :clcs (?)as: "Questioning ring either this spring or in the fall. All that I the stereo~vpes tlf ND/SMC," "Notre Dame have to say is. "Thanks ND/SMC -you did it Women: The Roles Men Make Them Play, again." I know that this article and others to "Could I Really Be a Domer?" and my come will not change the students' lives; af­favorite, "Two Women Assess Coeduca­ter all, "WE ARE NO." Why are you people so tion," how could you possibly not "ralph" conservative, backward. stuck-up. and close­(stereotype -sorry) after reading them? I minded' Ifyou people call yourselves Chris­think that The Obsert•er people are doing a tians (as you say), why are you so full ofhate, great job, except I wish that they would not jealousy, and anger? How many students be so one sided, but tell the whole story (as read seriously the letter to the editor this Margaret Fosmoe -­"Highlights and past week from the Gay Students of Lowlights" -did). ND/SMC? (Note: In colleges in my home  area -Pittsburgh, some have a Gay Club. not one whose acknowledgment is hidden in a secret room on campus, like at Notre Dame.) Ifyou are servants ofjesus/God, you should love everybody and look at people's good qualities not tht.ir faults. Remember last semester "No Fat Chicks." You people speak for yourselves every time you do those dumb stunts. All that I can say is that vou people are wolves in sheep's clothing ­i.e. PHONY. I feel that every person should be what he/she wants to be (or do what he/she wants to do). !like people because of what they are inside -not because of race, sex, sexual preference. beliefs . .It seems that Jam the only person who has grown and is mature here at ND. :1.-laybe you students should practice what you preach ... (that is ifyou could think by yourselves ... ) George Gary Calafactor Engineering  
Dear Editor: In last Monday's Obsen•er, you published a glowing rt·vicw of the local production on The Taming of the Shrew. This was not surprising. since The Observer seems to love anything that goes on at Notre Dame-Saint Mary's, but the production the reviewer and I both saw was so poor I feel obliged to respond. The reviewer starts off by describing the production as "one ofthe liveliest, most suc­cessfully realized Shakespeare production anyone's likely to see on the amateur stage," and then goes on to credit the company with "some first-class theatrical razzmatazz in transmuting Taming for a contemporary audience." Transmuted?! According to my dictionary (yes, I had to look it up!) transmute means "to change or alter in form. appearance, or nature." Actually, that's fairly accurate, except the appropriate conjuction is "and." not "or."  Shrew disgraces Shakespeare Er•erything was changed, and they had the I was offended, as must have been the nerve to still call it a Shakespearean produc­parents of the young children in the tion! They are not the first to adapt The audience. I didn't come to see a bawdy farce, Taming ofthe Shrew to the Southwest, but l came to see comedy on courtship, and the almost no one leaves the title the same. let two are not synonymous. While Vacca alorw calls it a Shakespearean production. wrote, "Jensen and Lucke have chosen -As for the adaptation itself, it wa.~ at best and I think correctly -to emphasize Kate's fair, and often poor and offensive. As astonishing sexual energy," I must say I have reviewer Vacca conceded, there were parts never seen this alleged sexuality. of the plot cut out; however, Vacca didn't Shakespeare's Katherina was not a fiestv mention the worse atrocity, the mutilation wench, she was a boisterous almost tombo,:. ofShakespeare's iambic pentameter in favor ish character. It wa.~ her sister Bianca who of unintelligible mock-accents. Those ac­was the flirt. and in this production she has cents would have been bad enough alone, become a manican who jumps from one but to think that they replaced some of the suitor to another on cue from either. Neither best verse of the English language only character wa.o; true to character in this mock­makes me cringe. ery ofthe original production. Another complaint I had was all of the crude innuendo so rampant in the produc­While Vacca feels "all the tion. Half of the time it seemed that the changes ...were made for a purpo t se that rewriter was out to appear cleverly crude, Shakespeare would surely have approved," I while at other times no such subtlety wa.~ am more inclined to think he is rolling end­used. lessly in his grave at this travesty of an  adaptation. Beyond the lousy adaptation, the acting and production aspects were Mill quite poor. There was no distinction between the two generations ofcharacters, at lea.o;t as far as makeup or acting goes, and the actors and actresses. especially the actress who plays Katherina, the lead role, were often not un­derstandable between the horrible fake ac­cents and just plain bad diction. "An even and competent level of ensemble acting" as reviewer Vacca calls it? Hardly competent, and even only with the level of the adapta­tion. It's too bad that director Jensen chose to fiddle with this classic, but it could be even worse if those who did not see it were told she had done a good job. She and her com­pany did not do so -that's really too bad; Shakespeare deserved better than this. Nick Laflamme Cavanaugh Hall  

Department Managers 
Business Manager.... .. ....................Tony Aiello Controller .................... ........................Eric Schulz Adr,ertising Manager..................... :.Chris Owen Production Munager.................. Maura Murphy Circulation Manager ...... ................. Ray lnglin Systems Mar~ager ...........................Bruc.e Oakley 
Founded November 3,1966 


==Ihe_-_Qbseaer== 
The Ob rer~'er rs an independent new,paper publrshcd by the ~tudents of the linrvcr,ity of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Collc,gc. It does not nt"':es~arily rdlet.t the pol1cit'~ of the admrni~tration of cather institution. The nL"WS ~~ report­t·J as alcurately and a~ objettrve!y as possrhle. Editorials repre~ent the opinion of .t maJonty of the Ed1tonal Board. Co.nmeniaries, opanions anJ letters arc the views of the1r authors. ( olumn spa1c i~ avadabll' to all members of the (Ommunrty, and the frce expression of varymg opanaons on ca.mpu>, through ~ers, i~ encounged. 
P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame, IN ..65S6 (.Zl9) l.-\9-'HOj 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief............. ...............Michael :\tonk Managing Editor ... .Rpn \'er Berkmoes SMC Executive Editor....... ....Margaret Fosmoe Sports Editor..... . ....Chris Needles Editorials Editor .. .................. Paul McGinn Features Editor............ ......Tari Brown PhotoEdttor ................................. Rachel Blount 
. ' ____________________________________________________________.. 




, ,. 

The Observer Features Section 
·,
Monday, October 18, 1982 -page 9 ' 
~gherl  

experience when he was sent to the principal's office for "acting smart." Also, he criticized oddities in the English language, especially the various ways many similarly-spelled words are pronounced. Clearly the most hilarious portion ofthe night was Gallagher's famous "Sledgamatic" invention, which consisted of a wood chunck on a stick with two pie tins. The come­dian showe~ the various uses of the primitive tool, which ranged from an instant applesauce maker (which he demonstrated, much to the dis­taste ofthe first three rows) to a novel way to keep children out of your yard. He threatened to try his invention on a watermelon. and returned to smash it for his encore. Gallagher proved to the audience that the world around us is funny, and all we need to do is to "begin to look at life differently." While his brand of humor could be compared to the intellectual style of George Carlin. or the zany "wild and carazy" humor ofSteve Martin. <;allagher's styk work~ well because he brings to the stage his personal touch. And for the l\lorrh. Civic crowd, most left the auditorium chuckling and looking at the world "a little off­n·nter." thanks to Gallagher.  

~ttise 
Encouraged by the audience reac­tion. Paperno electt·d to play a second~ncore. giving a rou~ing, up­tempo rendition of Khatchaturian's "Toccata for Piano." The stunning sendotl brought the crowd ofstu­dents (many notebooks were covered with feverishly scribbled notes hy show's end). prolessors and music enthusiasts to its feet. 
Paperno. who ha.' taught at the prestigious Gnesin l\losc::ow State In­stitute and wa.' affiliated with l\los­l'Oncert (Russia's major concert hureau ). has heen invited by \lusical Heritage Society Records to rt"cord "Sdected Works t<>r Piano," featur­ing the music:: ofScriahin. 
The l'niversity Artist Series con­tinues ~ov. 22 with Continuum. an t"n~·mble performmg 20th ct"ntury music The performance i~ part of the Stravin,ky ColloquiUm scheduled for ~ov. 22-2~. The Col­den ~Iring Quartet will appear Ike. H. 
• OIP11er Mess•aen Le mene ro" Igor S!rav•nst..y Octet tor lVma ":.. •·,,ments Morton Fe1dman Three CldnPc>t~ Cello ana P,,J,.,., 

Homewatd bound 
O
nly four more days until fall break. I can't wait. Classes will ht" out and so will the hooks -out of my life. that is. I'll he ... . . going home! Home ...whert" tht" food is warm. Home ...where the beds are soft. Home ...I can't wait' 
:"\o more Maying up until four in the morning looking at \lr. Video Display Terminal. trying to decipht·r some garhage someone wrote t(Jr tomorrow's paper. ~o more hearing :\'eedles complain about our offense. ~o more hearing Dziedzic complimenting our defense. :\lo more calls on Sunday morning from my t"ditor kindly asking me to do something he ~ay~ I've never done hefore. 
\\'rite a good featurt"s column. 
:"\o more of him. either. 
Ed Konrady 
features 

Gee, that loob so good. I'll write it again. 
:\'o more of him, either. 
This hreak will he awesome. :\lot because I have any great plans for 
what I'll do when I get homt·. This will he an awesome hreak because 
I need it. Bad. 
I need to sleep all day, if I want, and sleep all night, too. I want to 
watch television like I used to. It will be like high school days all over 
again. Going out and seeing all my old friends. Driving my carall over 
Lake County, seeing all the old places again. Driving past my old high 
school, Salesian College Preparatory School for Men, which has 
since closed and become a home for the mentally ill (appropriate, 
believe me), and spit out the window. 
I've also got to remember-to roll down the window first. 
Don't let my rememberences about my home life fool you, 
though. I generally love being here at Notre Dame. My best friends 
are here. My favorite bars are here. My favorite women's dorms are 
here. 
But I think it's time to go home. 
I've called my roommate "Mom" three times this week. And he 
wasn't in his dress, either. 
Home for me is Crown Point, Indiana, a town ofabout 15,000 old 
ladies and seven teenagers, six ofwhom are guys. It's not a very 
exciting place, a.' you may have already heard. However, it is close 
enough to Chicago to make it liveable, and there are enough red­
necks around to make life exciting ifyour hair is covering your ears. 
I miss the old ladies with their garden hoses in their knarled old 
hands, waiting for someone to travel down their street at a faster 
pace than they think is necessary. 
I miss being able to drive down South Street with soap on my car and being able to get it wa.'ihed for free. 
Good old Crown Point. 
Ofcourse. I'll probably do some work around the house for mv Dad. Mow the lawn, paiu't the railing, drink his beer. The usual. . I'll go out and see the movies. Or, I could . l could .. Well. I can always juM lay around and sleep. !'or a week. There should be some good show~ on television. And I can listen to Steve Dahl on the radio again with his sidekick 
<;arry \Ieier. 
I could call up some friends. 
But it won't be the same. I enjoy calling up Karen at one in the 
morning and waking her up I like hearing tht" thrt"e girls named B threaten the old Double-D. En·n if ht" does like nw column. 
I won't he ahle to make late-night runs with my. main man. 
I won't bt" able to wake up in a room and have to a:.k what dorm I'm in. And dirt"ctions back to Keenan. 
I won't h<: able to go to the post oftke and pick up the hags of fan mail I always gt"t tiH-my column. (P.O. Box Q. for all those who have neglected their duty.) 
I won't he: ahle to roam around campus, hearing women scream out their windows at me, throwing roses in my path. I won't ha\T -iO-}Tar-old womt"n surrounding my dorm room door. bt"gging me to go out with their daughters. I won't be ahle to dl'stroy the dining hall wht"n I set" my hero, Cap'n Crunch. 
Oh, nooooo, Cap'n. 
I've got to go home. 
What a life. 
Onlv eleven more days until school starts again 
I can't wait. 
Sffief by Ted Ozark 
I 



0.~-OzARK. 
1 -t nmk I've 
ad ju-st 
atwth er10Uj ~~ 1 


Joseph Schwantner 
Prem14tr. Roger Bnggs 
L
aM en:~ing the \lichiana :"\ew \lu~tc:: Ensemble:. under the direc­tion of Roger Briggs. prest"nted a concert at Saint \1ary's Little Theatre. The program included live pieces and was highlighted by the world premier of Briggs' In The Midst ofCalms. a work for two pianos. 


Jack Cosgrove 

concert review 
Apiece for flute and pi~no, Olivier Messiaen'sLe Merle Noir (The Blackbird), began the performance. As the name implies, Le Merle Noir attempts to imitate actual bird calls. Demonstrating Korin Schilling's ample ability on flute, the piece is based on a call and response melody, usually starting with Briggs' piano. Although the piano sometimes masked the flute, coordination wa.~ 
evident. 
Three Clarinets, Cello, and Piano 
by Morton Feldman stands out as the most unusual selection of the night. Feldman plays with the concepts of silence and sound while retaining an overall quality ofsparse solitude. The clarinets rarely played more than two notes before the score 
ahandoned itself to its intermittent silences. 
Joseph Schwantt"r·~.lfusic ofAm­IJer was a perfect contraM to Feldman. Whert" Feldman lacked detlnate pube and tt"nded toward soft shades in the music, Schwantner's rhvthmic sense and range ofdynami~ levds wert" consis­tent throughout .Husic ofAmher. The two movement piece (the only to use percussion instruments) also utilized somt" interesting sound ef­fects including sliding strings, air 

W•na Wo~lr~t~ \\'htSpt.>r '' • · \' ...... •J' J:.··~o~r In rr.e \IJJQSI ol C.J""" 
blown loudly through a tluie in or­der to simulate wind, and a whi~tling of the melody. Schwantner roaMer­fully colored his pkc::e to exhihit the hest possible musical contrast he­tween "Wind Willow. Whisper" and "Sanctuary". 
In the tlrst movement, the quintet of instruments moved aimoM in­dependently hut managed to main­tain a sense ofcontinuity and association. The second movement, while involving more unison playing, was shaded much darker and evoked a more shadowy theme. Contrast in shading and special ef­fects made this piece one ofthe most fascinating on the program. 
After intermission Briggs' own In The Midst ofCalms had its premier. The duet for two pianos began with a simple melody established by one ofthe keyboards. The tune was then embellished by both pianos using different meters and complex ap­proaches. Concluding shortly after hoth pianos re-established mutuality, this final section was the most I beautiful and melodic of the evening. 
The concert concluded with Stravinsky's Octetfor Wind Instru­ments. Both movements in the piece used a call and response ~tructure which highlighted soloist~· abilities. The tlnale crescendoed into a very melodic closing tht"me devoid oftht" dissonance of the earlit"r part of the piece. 
The program notes for the con­cert included a short description of each piece. When explaint"d, tht"st" works lost most of the fort'lgn feeling they would ha\T possesst"d without the guide. In gt·neral. enjoy· ment ofthe prog tram rt·quired only opt"n ears and open mind. 

PHOTO BY DIA.'lA BUTLER 






~jb(Jf1tS=t=1==~=~=·~~~~S========~=======================~=1o=n=d=a)=··=o=c=to=h=cr==l8=.=lt=)H=2===p=ag='e=l==O
fl\· 1/>c I JI>S<'rl'<'l" and I"" bsudtiletl J'ri'SS 

Mario Manta's goal !n thdO()th minutt• ·~fplav g.m: the :'1/otrt· Danll' ~on:er tt.·am .t .!·I <•\t:rtinu: \\Ill O\Tr .\larqut·tte l nin·rsit\ in .\lilwaukl-e \l'Stt·rtht\. \l.tnta·~ c:luH.:h tall\. whi<:h uppnlth~ lri,.h record to Iil-·1 2. w;., ;t''t"tcd h~ Rich lkrckgen and goaltender (;<-rard .\kCanlw. Dan· .\lileo; scorn! :\I)'s tlr;.t goal. Frid.tv night. :\otrt· Dame ht:at DePaul l"niversit} 6-0. Joe llohl it'd the \\ J) t<>r tht: lri~h with two );lit· goals. and .\liln notched tht: game-winnt-r in the lir:-.t h;;lt. -The Ohserl'er 
Saint Mary's volleyball won a pair or march~:~ at this weekend's \1ancht·~ter College Tournament. The Relit::-. 'hook otfan opening gamt· defeat to ovt·rcome DePauw l'nin·rsity, I 0·1 'i. I 'i-I ami 1 'i-12: and won tht: tournament hy heating .\lanchester College, I 'i-1 I and 1 'i-12. Saint Mary's h;L' a r~cord of 9-6-1. -7he Ohsen•er 
Mikejohnston seta Notre Dame school record when he booted his 1 1 th consecutive successful field goal in the third quarter of Saturday's Arizona contest. Johnston broke Chuck Male's mark of 10 straight set in 1978 and 1979. -The Observer 
Runners have until Wednesday to sign up for the NVA six-mile run. for more information. call the ~VA office at 2.W-'i I 00. -The Ohsert•er 
The Utahjazzhave waived veteran guard Carl Nicks, one the team's most popular players last season. The departure of Nicks, a two-year veteran from Indiana State, leaves theJazz with 12 players on their National Basketball Association pre-season roster. Nicks was a teammate of Larry Bird on the 1979 Sycamore unit that reached the NCAA final game against Michigan State. -AP 
NDcross country / 
Irish second in Big State meet 
By~ATRICH 
.\jmrts Write,. 
Resuming its 't:ason atier a two wn·k lavotl, tht: :\otrt: DanH· cross n>untq tt·am gave it~ he:-.t pertin­manet· of till' season Friday after­noon at the Indiana Big State \lct:t in Hloomington. l.t:d hy Tim Cannon. tht· Irish finished se<.'ond in a 22­team Held from the statt: of Indiana. trailing only Purdut: l :nivt:rsity. 
Purdut: wound up with :)5 points and Notre Dame had 'i-t Indiana University pla<.·ed third with H1. Cannon put in an excellent perfor­mance, grabbing second place with a time of 25:00 for the 8,000-meter course. The only runner to finish in front of Cannon wasJim Spi\1' of In­diana, the NCAA 1,500 meter cham­pion and among the national leaders in the 'i,OOO. 
Ralph Caron ran his best race of the season, showing the form that made him laM year's biggest surprise, taking seventh place, second for Notre Dame. Marc Woz­niak, who has led the Irish thb season, claimed ninth position over­all and was Notre Dame's third finis­her. Tim Bartrand and Andy Dillon rounded out the Notre Dame scorers. with finishes of 1.3th and 2.3rd respectively. 
"The kids ran well today, the best that they have done this year," com· mented Coach Joe Piane. ''I'd have to say that it was the best finish we've had in the last four or five years. I'm very happy with our com· petitiveness: we're definitely getting better every time we go out." • 
The Irish will not be ahle to revel in this weekend's success'for long. Next week's meet, the Central Col­kgtatt: <:onkrence Champion,lup". promi~c~ to provide the stilft:st com­pt·tition the team ha~ faced ~o far. ~avs Pi:lnc. "'This WtTk the compt·ti· 

ti,;n  was  'trong,  hut  nothing  
compan:d to  what \\e'll  "cc  nt·x.t  
Saturdav."  

Piant: !"aw tht· open wt·ckend as a 

wdu>rtH· ro:spllc ··tt g.nT u~ another wed-. to train. ;md lh.tt 'urt· couldn't ha\ t' hun 11:-. 1'111 glad to stT "c haH· another hreak hd(>rt· tht· Dbtnct Champiutl'•hips." \X'ith the District Champion,hips only thn:e meeb awav. Pianc is hoping that the lri'h runners han· \Tt to rt:ach thl.'ir p.-ak 
• • .Managers 
continuedfrom /HiRe 11 
numher of ~ophomores and fresh­men. The underclassmen help out the upperclao;smen, competing with each other to make the managt·r cut after sophomore year. 
Some fringe benefits such as free tickets and scholarships are used to sweeten the pot for the underclas: smen and to attract new recruits. Sophomore managers get free has­ketball and football tickets and also free books. Juniors get to travel with the football team to one away game, and seniors are· given scholarships ranging from 65 to 100 percent of their tuition. 
Before you call to join, however, remember that each manager works hard for everything he gets. Sopho· mores must sacrifice their friday nights to prepare each individual football player's uniform. Ninety or so players must be taken care of before each home game and it is not unheard of for the managers to be working until six or seven in the morning. 
Juniors put in at lea~t four or tive days a week during the football seao;on and are responsible for the football practices running smoothly. Seniors put in even more time. Lan­ght:im, Kruszewski. and Rigali, for in­stance, work at lea~t .30 hours each week 
"This is definitely a good organiza­tion to he involved in," says Lan­~heim. "ifyou want to be involved in lhe athletic department. 
"As sophomores and freshmen," he adds, "you don't have to put in that much time. hut you still get some of the benefits. Juniors and seniors have to put in a lot of time, but they hecome an integral part of the team." 
"We know we don't have a glamorous position and we don't try to make it glamorous," he explains. "We don't get too much attention from source!> outside the athletic department, but, inside the depart­ment, they definitely treat us well and they are never short on praise if we do a good job.., 
"If you do a good job," he con­tinues, "you get respect from the coaches and the players. The key thing is the satisfaction of knowing you're a very important part of the Notre Dame athletic department." 
The Observer wtll accept classtfteds Mon­day through Fnday. 10 am. to 4 30 p m 
, , Hqwever. classtfteds to appear tn the next tssue must be recetved by 3 p.m. the busmess day pnor to tnsertton All classtfteels must be prepatd. 



·classifieds 
etther 1n person or through the rnali. 
Lost Sliver Cross pen It has a ttny dent 1n TEXAS OR BUST--for fall break ndes WILL PAY BIG MONEY FOR 4 PENN M1ss lndtana -"No DepoSit, No Return·· the upper barrell It also has great sen­needed Leave whenever! x1 076 STATE GA TIX. CALL 312·565-5959 I think 11 would be neat to go see the
NOTICES 

llmental value Plese call Dan 6795 COLLECT AND ASK FOR STEVE Munster H1gh Munsters play football' Or 
Kathy D I think yoll rea QT
LONGLEY. JUSt to YIStt your Hooster htgh school! Well, FOUND 1981 class nng 1n Math & Comp whaodya th1nk?
A1de needed to Lalayette. IN or towards (From a Aaab'" Kenan) 
Indianapolis for Oct break Call Tom p s I Love NY 1396
Expenenced Typ1st WILL DO TYPING BUilding or•nge stone call G1na 6553 at NEED ANY KIND OF PENN STATE TIX 
REASONABLE RATES Call 287·5162 2t2 Lew1s CALL MEG· 7628 BOSTON BUS LEAVES FRIDAY AT 4 P M NO LATER' ARRIVE BY 3.40 HAP· TO THE ROT w1th no C who IS as sweet COLLEGE BOWL MEETING · TUES· Need nde to St Lou1s for Oct break NEED 4 GA TIX TO PENN ST $$$CALL PY HOUR COMMENCES AT 4.15 as can be -HAPPY SWEETEST DAY ­DAY. 7:00 PM. CCE 202 CAPTAINS W/share expenss Call Mary 233·4598 JIM 233-2386 LEAVES FROM CCE BLUE EYES AND NEW PLAYERS WELCOME 

FOR RENT 

WANTED A RESPONSIBLE DRIVER Need s1x GA s for enthuSiaSiic a1umn1 Hey SR. Need a nde ? Dnve a WILSON TO DRIVE A CAR BACK TO NOTRE Please call283-1809 Are your hands made for drawtng? 
LOOK OUT BOSTON HERE COMES 
DRIVEAWAY car home for break One· NICe furmshed house 2 blocks to N D DAME FROM DENVER. DURI!-~G OC­ALB Ill. J P . GALLAGHER. & BILLY Fun tn Phtlo way transportation. you pay ONLY gas 277·3604 or 288·0955 TOBER BREAK NO EXPENSES EX· THE COMBAT ZONE WILL NEVER BE and tolls (plus a returnable secunty CEPT FOR YOUR FUEL COST CALL THE SAME WELL SAVE A SCORPION HEY LITTLE BEBOP!
Must sell 2 RUSH tickets, 11/6/82. 14th 
deposit) Call BOB 233-6495 Student Houstng -Clean Safe DAN. 1149 BOWL FOR YOU JOHNNY. CUSH. & 18th and hope you have many happy
row Call Todd at 8762 
$100/mo 291·1405 BERTCH ·MJ happy years of do1ng Jane NEED RIDE TO NORTH CAROLINA WANTED RIDE FOR THREE PEOPLE The Manor Tnntty FOR BREAK SHARE GAS. CALL Furn effiCiency $100 Also 1 bedroom (OR ANY COMBINATIONS) ro· OR 
CHAPIN AT 1522 ANYTIME apartment $175 Call255-8505 NEAR ERIE. PA . FOR OCT BREAK Need Penn State Gas. Will pay cold hard To the ntcest arkte from Cahfornta, Happy eehhhhhhh. aoozhebirthday Lu1s 1
cash 8539 Flying F1ngers lyp1ng serv1ce Proofread­CALL NORA AT Ing and ed111ng Included. 85 cents a page NEED4 GAS FOR PENN STATE GAME To our long lost budd1es 
ANYONE GOING ON 1·90 OR 1·80? 
Happy Birthday Beth T1ghe!!! RIChard 
Toe>' wants to meet you!!! Celebrate well. you old woman!!
Margaret or Ann 277 ·1624 [ WANTED WASH DC /NO VA Need nde to the CALL TRACEY 5201 (SMC) Remember. 
aforementioned for October break WJII Spaten House 
Murph
I have SIX 7th-row RUSH t1x for sale Call Candlelight d1nner on the roof NEEDED: AIDE or RIDES to PITTS· share the usual Call John at 1817 
Magg1e. 284·4345 Mounta1n chmbtng tn Cervtnla BURGH!!! call TOM. 1754 or BRIAN. Joe sez ·Dan should be the lnsh start1ng 
Chnstmas dinner tn RomeA1de needed to Cleveland tor break· Will
6105'! (for fall break)--PITTSBURGH. QB

LOST/FOUND 

Need 6 PENN ST GAs$$ SMC 5467 Monopoly and Mano pittsburgh. PiTTSBURGH. pittsburgh-­share expenses Call Joe at 3625 
We m1ss you Love. May 3. 1987 GOLLY JEEPERS! I need two PENN 
The L·5 SoCiety presents Mr L Boyle of LOST Notre Dame class nng atthe M1am1 RIDERS: TO CHAMPAIGN. !L ON OCT Help South Bend Juliet wants to see her STATE GAs. big brother would hke to see the Ch1cago Soc1ety for Space Stud1es Pep Rally Please return 1t! My father Will Milwaukee Romeo If you could g1ve me a a game w1th Pop Call o"AVE at 1165 JOHNNY BOG
21 & BACK OCT 31 COLLEEN 7842 speaktng about; SPACE PROGRAMS 
AROUND THE WORLD Come to Tom 8602 REWARD PURDUE IS CALLING. NEED RIDE TO GMATs, I d apprec,at" ~I Wrtl share the NEED PENN ST GAs BIG TIME! $$$ LaFortune rm 2D at 7·30pm on Tuesday Johnny-Bog, WHAT THEY DONT P U. W LAFAYETTE AREA FOR usual If you re Milwaukee bound. please CALL 1627 Oct 19 and CHECK IT OUT! Don t lei KNOW TheMrs 
kill me 1! I show up at home w1thout rt Call nde to Milwaukee on Oct 23 aner the 
BREAK USUAL ARRANGE SOUND Grav1ty get you down! Fnday · 1n area ot the Dome Call 284-GREAT CALL BILL. 1434 TWO PENN ST GAs BST OFFER· 8112 0 What does not break aga1nst a waif? 5313 ·Reward! TO MY FELLOW LUNCH DINERS-­A A Sunk 1st Bottle RIDE needed to BOSTON tor October Ann Arbor/Detroit IS where 1ts at1 Remember my prom1se? You never 
LOST: N1kon camera m btack case on call Juhe at 3882 
break WtU share dnvmg and expenses (Actually where he sat!) If you re headed thought I d put a personal tn for you guys leather band. near Howard PHONE Call STEVE at 277-8785. anernoons or to Ann Arbor /Detroit for break. I d be eter­dtd you? Or don t you realize th1s tS fOf all Domers beware Shes legal' Love, 
LOST Gold watch. made 1n USSR. brown Spare us' Today IS Christina'a b'day. so 
evenings nally gratetul lor a rode. leav1ng Oct 23 PERSONALS you? The ftrst one of you to tell me you your counterparts .n cnmel Ann. Pam. aner the GMAT s Will share the dnvtng saw 1h1s personal and knows who wrote 11 ~C. & Kath 3558 
PLEASE HELP! need nde to WASH. DC and expenses If you can help me out, w1ns 7 dell sandwtches on me!! Maybe Ill for oct break Wtll help wtth usual Maura please call L1sa at 3882 Thanks! throw tn a bowl of green tee cream and 
Lost. PENT AX 35MM CAMERA 1n Green 
F1eld area Help! calli 025 

x2244 DEANNNA'S DAD IS A PILOT some Cap n Crunch Ta.ta HELPI 2 beautiful women need a ride to St LoUts 
d 

LOST: Oval St Chnstopher s medal. one 3 AMBITIOUS INVESTORS ONLY 
Need nde to or near San AntoniO, TX for tor break W1ll share expenses Call Mane
to one & one half large. between Lew1s Maureen-NEED 125 MORE BAZOOKA COMICS 
break W/share usual CanS_t.eve at 1777 or Sylv1a SMC·5447 Far be 1t from me to forget your per· '83-SEN!OR$-·'83 TO GET THEIR SPACE PHONESHall and the Huddle or lhe Huddle and the Pre-Halloween Costume Pany at
sonal more than two weeks m a row W111 DONATIONS NOW BEING ACCEPTED Senior Bar Wed. October tO, 1982L1brary It IS made of Sliver Call Kev1n 
RIDE NEEDED TO ROCHESTER OR you be over to the room for a hnle Shock IN237B P NEED 2 RIDES TO VERMONT OR AREA Priz.,., Food, Specials, & a live Band1592 1f found Reward 1f found. 
BUFFALO NY FOR BREAK CALL Treatment th1s week? ahhhh. ooooo. FOR OCT BREAK CALL RICH 1625 SUSAN6983 feels goOd. eh?
Lost. Black and whtte pearl nng some­where tn the vte1n1ty ot Madeleva and the Dear Dan (Howard 3-N). Tne tener for the day os D 
Need nde to MILWAUKEE Fn Oct 22-­Need ndp. oack from Navy game at
sctence bwldtn on SMC campus Very Happy Thtrd Anntversary! Famous 0 s 
can leave anyttme after 11 am STOPwtll Meadowlands Call Steve 8986 Need a rm to either northern ~w Jer­Deanna 0 
valuable and has sentimental worth If Three years and hopefully many more'
share usual expenses call Shetla 289· t HY (right oil Rl. 80) or the Allentown, De t anna s Dad
founo PLEASE call Lome al5484 I LOVE YOU 9304 Pa. area tor October break. Can leave (.,ho •s apolot)
Debb1eW FOUND. Anne Kle1n change purse Call 
Wednesday, Oct. 20. Call Mike, 2n-Deann• s room1e (L D) DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO NYC 4300.
3889 


TICKETS
FOR BREAK WILL SHARE EXPENSES To my favonte nat1ve, JANEEN OJDS. also 
CALL JIM AT 8583 U my love. care. and affection couldn t have a wonderful and excu.ng 19th Ooozhe LOST Yellow Folder/Tan notebook •n C· make laura s hean tiCk. what does she btrthday1 Sorry I cant be there to share rt Damage ~ne,N D H. 10/14 Please return to Paul ORLANDO-ROUND TRIP· 32 R V TWO RUSH TIX ROW 15 CENTER want? Valentino? Or maybe a second w1th you. try to enJOY 11 anyway Best 0epOStl 3405 1oo1<1ng for nders call m1ke 1650 STAGE BEST OFFER BOB 3259 chance? A dnnkrng ppartner? What?? buddieS always. Cathy Oetavu 
The Observer Monday, October 18, 1982 page 11 
Unheralded managers keep team. gleaming 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
The sight of Notre Dame football helmets glowing in the sun inspires awe in the hearts of opponents and fans alike. Yet almost no one realizes the incredihle amount of work that goes into making eal·h helmet glow. This is just one of the many jobs of the Student Managers Organization, one ofthe least recognized organiza­tions in the t:niversity. 
The SMO ha~ played an integral part in the Notre Dame athletic department since the days of Knutc Rockne. Rockne would smuggle stu­dent managers on a train taking the team to an away game. If they were caught, Rockne w~ forced to pretend they were not helping him. because non-playing students were not allowed to officially travel with the team. Despite the dangers. he was always ahle to count on them. 
"'The organization has heen taking on more and more responsihility each year." explain~ I lead Foothall :\1anager Mark l.angheim. "The whole athletic department depends on us a lot." 
"'As bnth :\lr. Corrigan (Athletk Dire:<..·tor) and .\1 r. ()"Brkn (Business :\tanager) have !'>aid, the athletic depanment couldn't function with­out the SMO," adds A!'>sbtant Foot­hall .\tanager Dave Kruszewski. "Without us, the department would h.l\ ~-to hire qun<: .. l<:\\ tula-tnnt· Pt"OI'lc:." 
This is not an overstatement. 

Besides preparing the football 
team's uniforms for each game, the 
SMO is al~;o responsible for keeping 
charts and statistics for the coaches, 
fixing equipment, showing films at 
team meetings, and taking inventory 
ofall equipment. 
The managers also check on all ar· rangements for visiting teams, make sure the Notre Dame travel plans are the way the coach wants them, make travel arrangements and handle travel money for the other sports. They also play a role in making sure the players are fed right. 
"This manager's organization is unique compared to other organiza­tions from the schools we have played," says Langheim, "in the fact that it is totally self-governed." 
""\X'e work with I I varsity sports,"' adds Kruszewski. "This gives stu­dents the opportunity to take on rcsponsihility and participate in a major collegiate athletic depart· ment. 
"Through their work a.' managers. lht:y <.:an 1c::.1dv thc::m~eln:~ l(>r ~uv cessful careers in the real world." 
Langheim i' also in charge of all the other managers. Hi!'> assistanh. Kruszewski and Jim Rigali. arc: placed in charge of personnel and equipment, respectively. 
These three ht:ad an organization of l-i senior,, 1-1 junior,, and a large 
See MA.I\IGERS page 10 


Michigan vaults to top ofRose Bowl race 
ByJOE MOOSHIL 
Associaletl Press 
:\lichigan's Wolvc:rinc:s not only 
arc hack in the Big Ten race hut they 
vaultt:d into sole posst:ssion of first 
place with their victory over Iowa 
Saturday while Ohio Stare dealt a 
severe blow to Illinois' Rose Bowl 
hopt-s. 
"~'~: arc in the ract:." said :\1ichi­
gan Coach Bo Scll(·mhcchler follow­
ing a 29--triumph over Iowa which 
left the Wolvt:rint:s ~·ith a -1-0 mark 
as the only undeft:atcd team in Big 
Tt:n play. 
"Yes, we're in control," said 
Schcmhcchlc:r, "but we've got to 
win them all and that isn't a 
cakewalk." 
Ohio State hroke a three-game losing streak with a 26-21 triumph over Illinois; Wiscon!'>in came otr with a 24-2:~ victory when :VIichigan State failed on a two-point conver­sion; Indiana extended .\1innesota's collapse 40-21 and Purdue snapped a nine-game losing streak with a 5-1­21 triumph over Northwestern. 
Illinois had rallied for a 21-21 tie 
but Chris Spangler's 27-yard field 
goal with eight seconds to play 
broke the tie and the Buckeves 
added a safety to drop Illinois' to 
second place with a 4-1 record. 
Ohio State is now tied with Iowa 
for fourth place, both teams having 
2-1 records. Wisconsin moved into 
third place with a 3-1 mark. 
Michigan State scored a touch­down with 15 seconds to play to move within a point of Wisconsin but the winless Spartans went for two points and faikd when David Greenwood interct:ptc:d John Lc:is­tc:r's pass. 
""\X't: played good enough to win, we should have: won." said Coach :\Iuddy \'fatt:rs. "There: w~ no way we would have settled for a tie." 
Illinois would have settled for a tic: 

after Mike Bass' 56-yard 11t:ld goal at­
tempt hit the upright and bounced 
hack hefore :\like Tomczak passed 
tht: Buck~:yes into position for 
Spangler's winning kick. 
.. It was a conference champion­ship situation and wt: would have settkd for tht: tie." said lllini Coach .\like White. 
Purdue's victory was the tlr!'>t for Coach l.t:on Burtnett who said "We've: played hetter and lost, hut I'll take the win." 
Quarterback Sandy Schwab passed for a :'l<orthweMem r~:cord 560 yards and Todd Jenkins set a Big Ten single: game record with I 5 receptions which accounted for IH9 yards. 
But it was the rushing teams that provided Big Ten victories Saturday. Purdue's :\kl Gray carried 25 times for 195 yards; Ohio State's Tim Spen­cer had 151 yards on 24 carries; Wis­consin's Chucky Davis 14 attempb for 12H yards and Michigan's Lawrence Ricks had I H carries for 120 yards. 
Odando Brown rushed for I 59 yards and three touchdowns to lead Indiana past Minnesota, prompting Gopher Coach Joe Salem to lament "We didn't play well and got our tails kicked again." 

juhn t-ortJ. l ~A. 8 .!fc \1'. 90 min 

Stagecoach ( l9.i9) Prohabh the mo~ c.:ekhralcd \l'eMcrn nf all 11me. tonJ"~.\Iug«oacb L' holh an action movK" wuh a !Oopt:'C.· 1acul;,u-hltbom altac.:k amt ~unfixtw .•mc.J a .,ubfl~· under· played cx.aminalion of ':'o<JCiel~· and CIVilizatiOn tord KO'VC John '\l 01rnc h1~ fir!'W ampurt:~m rule.._.., ttK film·., ou1l_.,.,. hero, the Rmtcu K1d 
lAnnenberg .Aud.,SniteMuseum Admission ""---1[1() ~ IIC311-1lr 7pm $ 2 · 00 ~ 
Irish tailback Phil Carter (rigbt) is ahout to he tackled hy Arizona's 
122's' 
.Tony .\"eelr ( lt>_(t) in Saturday's game. Carter. like the Irish. bad a tough outing, gaining rmlr 55

face off 
yards in the losing effort. (Photo hr Ed CarroII) 
THE 
CAREER-OPPORTUNITY 
COMPARISON TEST 
Can you be working as a civilian in the most Stilte-of-the-art environment in the world? 

Will your professional responsibilities be challenging and career-building in an entry-level position? 
Will your initiative be encourilged and your capabilities visible? 
Will you be offered il fine selection of accessible institutions where you can continue your education tuition free? 
Will the comprehensive trilining program you receive immediately accelerate your pay level? 
Can you be shown exactly how far your potential will take you in 5 years? 
Check Out These 
PERFECT SCORE CIVILIAN ENGINEERING OPPORTUNITIES AIR FORCE SYSTEMS COMMAND ACTIVITIES 
EJectrlcal Industrial Mechanical EJectronlc Aerospace Materials 
The Aeronautical Systems Division at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base has an assignment worthy of all the nights you've spent burning the midnight oil-the planning. research. development. testing and acquisition of all U.S. Air Force aeronautical weapon systems. Immediate civilian positions exist in turbine and ramjet engine technology, Right vehicle aerodynamics, structures. Right control and control design. materials research, navigation. communications, surveillance, recon­naissance and weapons de­livery. These areas offer unrivaled opportunity for innovation ...for setting precedents· ...and for stretching your abilities. 
Our civilian team of pro­fessionals have found Dayton. Ohio, a super place to live. If you like to breathe the open air, it's all around. If city hustle suits your style, you can have it in Dayton. Everything from King's Island to his-toric Fort Meigs is tucked into a short drive. And Cincinnati with it's professional sports. culture and night life is right next door. 
There's no red tape in coming on board. We can hire you without Bureaucratic delay. The Aeronautical Systems Division has been mighty good at getting places fast. Let us tell you how we can do the same for your career. 
WE ARE INnRVIEWING ON CAMPUS 
MONDAY, OCTOBER 25 
IN THE PlACEMENT OFFICE. 
SIGN UP FOR AN APPOINTMENT OR CONTACT: Recruiting Co-ordinator Aeronautical Systems Division 
WRIGHT-PAlTERSON AIR FORCE BASE, OHIO 45433 (513) 255-6974 255-6975 
~Ate An [.qUell Opponunuy £mpto~rMtf 
• 
The Observer Monday, October 18, 1982 page 12 
College roundup 




Volunteers upset 'Barna, 35-28 
By HERSCHEL NISSENSON State crushed East Carolina 'i6-i 7 goals. Associated Press and :\lo. 20 Clemson mauled Duke Chuck Coleman darted .~-1 yards ·.~ -!9-1-t. Texas, the No. for turned out the
Johnny ,\tajors has t1nally come IH team. was what to he marching home. 
not scheduled. de<:isive touchdown -Cockrell again Touted as a savior of ailing foot­Tennessee rallied from a 21-1 ~ hitJones for a two-poinrer-negating halftime deficit to upend error­a late Alabama TD. The Crimson
hall programs after turning things around at Iowa State and then at Pitt, plagued Alabama. which lost two Tide then reached the Tennessee I7 where he won a national champion­fumbles and two interceptions. Alan before Lee Jenkins detlected a pass 
Cockrell, who tlred a 'i2-yard touch­in the end zone and .\tike Terry in­
ship in 1976, Majors' difficult t1ve­
year career at Tennessee, his alma 
down bomb to Willie Gault in the tercepted it with I..., seconds to play. second period. put the Vols on top "I think they heat us worse than
mater. reached its zenith Saturday 2-l-21 with a 59-yarder to Mike Mil­the score indicated," Bear Bryant
when the unheralded Vols upset 
second-ranked Alabama. their arch­
ler and a two-point conversion toss said. "I don't know how many times rival, 35-2H. to Kenny Jones after Fuad Reveiz they had the baH: it must have been a kicked the third of his four field hundred times."
"There are always a few special victories that you'll never forget. two or three or four that stick with you. but this is by far the outstanding 

Self-effacing Yount ties 
one at Tennessee." .\1ajors said. "This will always live in my memory until the day 1die. As long as 1live, I 
another Series record 
can't see one being any bigger." .\11LWAl'KEE ( AP) Robin "The record make~ me feel good, The list of unbeaten. untied teams Yount was selt~effacing a.~ usual after hut I'm not concerned unless we 
stands, after this weekend, at six -he had tied another World Series win the World Series," ~aid Yount. top-rated Washington, a ~+ 1-win­record yestenla~· hut hi~ .\tilwaukee "Nothing Robin does anymore ner over Orq.:on State: third-ranked Brewers' teammate~ left no doubt surprises me," Brewer .\tanager Har­Pitt. which defeated Temple :'>H-1 -: about how they kit about their AU­vey Kuenn said. "He's just the best 
No. -1 (ieorgia. which turned back Star shortstop. all-around shortstop in ha.~ehall. 
Vanderbilt 2-:'-1 j; tlfth-ranked Yount became the t1rst player in .\lake that the be~;t all-around player Southern .\1ethodi~t. a 20-l-! victor World Series history to collect four in ba.~ehall." over Houston: idle seventh-ranked hits twice as his -1-for--1 performance 
Yount's seventh-inning homer 
Arkansas and No. I0 Arizona State. Sunday, including a solo homer in 
gave th<; Brewers a -1-2 cushion, and which trounced Texas-EI Paso j ...,-6. the seventh, sparked the Brewers to 
they went on to score two more Elsewhere, sixth-ranked Nehra~ka a 6--1 victory over the St. Louis Car­
runs in the eighth that enabled them 
·;;
flattened Kansas State -!2-1 5, "io. H dinals and a thrt:e-games-to-two lead to withstand St. Louis' two-run. 
Penn State I defeated Syracuse 2H-..,, in the Series. 
ninth-inning rally. 
,,~ No. I I North Carolina swamped "Robin really doesn't know how Brewers starter .\like Caldwell,
l N.C. State 41-9. No. 12 CCI..A good he is." :\tilwaukee t1rst 
who pitched a three-hit shutout inthumped Washington State -12-1-. baseman Cecil Cooper said. "If he .\tilwaukee's 10-0 victory in Game I,
f No. I:'> West Virginia downed Vir­does. it's hard to tell. That's because 
! gave up I-1 hits thb time hut kept
ginia Tech 16-6. :'llo. 1-t Southern he never lets anybody else know Milwaukee shortstop Robin Yount counted a home run among them well scattered.
California whipped Stanford -11-21, what he's doing or feeling. He's the 
hisfour bitsyesterday to spark the Breu•ers to a 6-4 win and a 3-2 
No. I 'i Illinois lost to Ohio State, 26-same guy whether he goes 'i-for-'i or "for seven innings today Caldwell 
lead in the World Series, which resumes tomorrou· night. Seestories 
21, No. I6 Uil. drubbed Kentucky 0-for-·t. But 1don't know where we was identical to the t1rst game." 
on the back page and at right. (AP Photo) 
:'>+I 0. :'llo. 1.., Miami trimmed .\1i~­would have been without him." Brewers catcher Ted Simmons said. 
sissippi State ~ 1-l·t. :'llo. 19 Florida Yount, true to ti>rm, wa.~ humble. "After the seventh, he ~tarred getting a little tired and the Cardin;:ls started getting a feel t(>r what he does. 
.. .Series 
continuedfrompage 16 
I 
\ ti>Ur pitches. Consecutive: ~ingles by .\loore and Gantner produced two more runs and secured .\lilwaukee's 
victory. 
t 
The Cardinals. meanwhile, stranded runners in evcry inning against Caldwell, ~coring their run~ 
in the third and seventh and ninth. 
With two out in the third. rookie David Green tripled under the glove ofthe diving Moore in right t1eld and Hernandez, who started the game 0­for-1 5 in the Series, doubled Green home. 
Hernandez reached third on an in­field single by Hendrick as the light rain began falling. Gantner's fine play behind the second-ba.~e bag kept Hendrick's hit from reaching


Fast... Free r---------------, 
the outfield and saved Caldwell one run when the next hitter, Porter,
Delivery 1I Only 1I 
grounded to second. Caldwell walked his second batter

1 $6.99 1 
of the game, Ozzie Smith, to lead off 
the seventh. Smith went to second
Call us. I Good Mondays Only... I 
1 Only $6.99 for a 16" 1-item ; 
on a single to right by Lonnie Smith. ® 
277·2151 1 pizza plus 4 Colas (a $2.19 I 
Green popped out and Hernandez 
1835 South Bend Ave. I value). Tax not included. I 
then grounded into a forceout that
I 
One coupon per pizza. I 
sent Ozzie Smith to third. 
Throbbing head? Free 30 minute pizza I Expires: 12/31/82 I 
Shortstop Yount's relay to 
Quaking body? Has delivery and 10 minute 
Caldwell, covering first, was late and
Monday dealt another pick-up service. 1 Fast, Free Delivery ~ 
the Cardinals had runners on the
crushing blow? Revive 1 1835 South Bend Ave. I 
corners. Hendrick then hit a single
yourself with a well­Hours: Phone: 277·2151 rounded meal from 11 :00-1:00 Sun. -Thurs. 
up the middle, scoring Ozzie Smith. Domino's Pizza We'll help 11 :00-2:00 Fri. & Sat. 
Caldwell escaped further damage 
when Cooper made a diving play o
smooth the wrinkles out of 
Porter's grounder toward right.
your day. Our drivers carry less 





i I all. i
than $10.00. 
Cooper scrambled to his feet and 

"'1982 DominO'S Pizza, Inc. Limited delivery area 
made the inning-ending toss to

i m=. ® 26213/2650 i 
Caldwell covering first. The Cardinals finally chased

~---------------~ 
Caldwell with the two ninth-inning runs. With one out, Green doubled and Hernandez doubled, his third hit of the game, to score Green. Hendrick then singled up the middle, scoring Hernande<t and 
.·, bringing on McClure. 

..................----------------------------------------------~.-~ ~ 
-'· i 



The Observer Monday, October 18, 1982 -page 13 

NFL negotiators tnove to"Ward resolution 
COCKEYS\'ILLE . .\ld. (AP) ­Mediator Sam Kagel said yesterday that negotiator~ trying to end the z-­
day-old  :-.lational  Foothall  League  
players'  strike  "have  already  
resolved a lot ofissues."  

Asked whether the two sides were ready to tackle key economic ques­tions, the major stumhling hlock in the dispute, Kagel said: "everything is almost together. These lines of demarcation are rather meaningless in collective hargaining negotia­tions." 
:'vleanwhile. The A~sociated Press learned the players union was w propo~e a moditied salary distrihu­tion plan in the negotiations. 
"It is an attempt to show manage­ment some movement, ~ome tlexihility." a source close to tht· negotiations said. 
"The union is going to incor­porate a restructured salary distrihu­tion plan in its proposed salary schedule," the source added. 
There was no indication, however. that the union was ahandoning its demand for a wage scale hased primarily on years of service in the league. 
A source close to the negotiations suggested that part of the reason for the modification in the salary plan was grounded in semantics. 
Kagel, in his tlrst extensive news briefing since negotiations began here tomorrow night, said yester­day: "the parties are meeting; they will he meeting again tonight ... the parties have heen exchanging views, discussions and proposals on some 20 or more suhjects which con­stitllle part ofthe collective hargain· ing agreement." 
He. described the process as involving some face-to-lace meetings hetween hoth sides and separate meetings hetween Kagel 
NFLPA 


~star' game unnoticed 
WASHINGTON ( AP) -Mark 
Moseley ofthe Washington Redskins 
kicked a 4';-yard field goal with I :0 I 
remaining Sunday to lift the National 
Conference team to a 23-22 victory 
over an American Conference squad 
in a union-sponsored ti:>othall game 
before a sparse crowd at RFK 
stadium. 
The National Foothall League Players Association, the union which put on the game, said that 8,760 tickets had been sold for the game. But the crowd in RFK stadium, which normally holds 5';,045 for Washington Redskins games, appeared to be much small· er. 
Moseley's third field goal of the 
day wiped out an American Con­
ference margin gained on a 61-yard 
touchdown pass from Don Strock of 
the Miami Dolphins to Ray Butler of 
the Baltimore Colts. 
Butler's touchdown with 9:02 gone in the third period came two plays after Gary Danielson ofDetroit threw his second scoring pass ofthe game, a 48-yarder to Mel Gray ofSt. Louis. In the first quarter, Danielson hitJohn Spagnola of Philadelphia for 13 yards to give the Nationals an ini· 
tial 7-0 lead. 
Steve Grogan ofNew England also threw two touchdown passes to Nate Moore of Miami for the Americans, one of 10 yards and other of 21 yards. 
Brig Owens, the former Washing· ton Redskin who now works for the union and has been designated "commissioner" for the planned 19­game league, described the game as a success, despite the low atten­dance. 
"Just the fact that we got-it off proves it is a success," he said. 
and either side. 
Kagel called a CBS television report aired earlier. which described negotiators a having spent any inordinate amount of time ar­guing over facial hair, 'an ahsurd and nonsensical report." 
"The matter of a personal ap­pearance provision in the agree­ment is basicallv not in dispute," added the bearded. -3-year-olJ San Francisco lawyer. "There's heen no question about facial hair. certainly no question ahout heards as long as I'm the mediator ... I suppose a non· sensical statement requires a non­sensical answer... 
Kagel, a veteran of years of mediation. said he saw no difference hetween these negotiations and the hundreds of others he has helped settle. 
"I find no difference whatsoever," 
·he said. "There are personalities in all situations ... In the final analysis. the union represents its memher­ship, the Management Council represents the owners; they not only have differences, hut they also have a very mutual interest in resolving their disputes." 

Would you consider a career in chiropractic? ... possibly because of the following . • • 
1. Chiropractors offer an approach to health care based on an individual"s relationship to his environment and the idea that a significant amount of physical well· being is determined by the central nervous system and interference with it by derangements or dysfunctions of the musculo-skeletal system -particularly those of 
Arizona's Ricky Hunley (89) nuJI'es in to tackle Irish split em/joe
Howard 
Hou•m·tl (2·i) in this first quarter play from Saturday's 16-13 Notre Dame loss to the \f!i/tlcats. For

devoured 
more, see the back page and the 
football special on page 14. (Photo hy Sco/1 Hou•er) 

the spine. 

2. From the best figures available to me I would suspect that nearer 20 million Americans today could be spared suffering and be returned to normal pain·free life were manipulation therapy as readily available to them as empirical non-specific drug treatment is... John McMillan MenneiL M.D.. Orthopedist HEW Expert Review Panel 
.3. '"The Commission has found it established beyond any reasonable degree of doubt that chiropractors have a more thorough training in spinal mechanics and spinal manual therapy than any other health professional... Report. Royal Commission to Study Chiropractic in New 2!ealand. (October 1979). 
4. '"Career Prospects are bright. With 23.000 chiropractors already practicing. the Health and Human Services Study predicts that the I 0,000 to 13.000 peo· pie who enter the field during the next five years will be easily absorbed. 
The study portrays the average chiropractic doctor as a white male in solo practice working in a small town in the Midwest or California and grossing approximately $63.400 per year. With the new public attitudes and an interest within the field in recruiting minorities and women, this profile soon may be obsolete... Joyce Lain Kennedy. Job Mart. Chicago Sun·Times. November 24. 1980. 
5. ··It is hoped that the new AMA provision will help to im;)rove the public's conception of chiropractic and im­prove the utilization of its services with respect to the treatment of muscle. bone, joint and related conditions... Lowell Steen. M.D.. Chairman. Board of Trustees, American Medical Assocation 
The Arizona Republic 
August 3. 1980. 
OR MAYBE YOU SHOULD CONSIDER A CAREER IN CHIROPRACTIC BECAUSE: 
1. You wish to utilize your education to serve 3. The Chiropractic doctoral program includes a four 
humanity. year postundergraduate program of basic.sciences such as anatomy. physiology. chemistry and pathology. as 
2. The profession needs a steady supply of highly in­well as the clinical sciences of physical and laboratory telligent and altruistically motivated students to fill the diagnosis. x·ray and chiropractic procedures. both increasing demand for: a. Field Practitioners. b. Resear­theoretical and applied. Prefer applications with 
chers. c. Faculty Positions 

Accredited by the 
bachelor degrees. 
r--------------------, 
Admissions Department I PALMER COLLEGE OF CHIROPRACTIC 
I 

1000 Brady Street 
I

Davenport, Iowa 52803 
I 

Please send me information on chiropractic health care, 1 
education and careers. 1 
Name _______________________ 
I 

Address__________________________________ 
I 

City________________________ I
., 

State __________ Zip Code 
1 

Coun ~il on Chiropractic Education College now attending 1 
----------~~----------------------------L------------------------~--~~~~----------~--~ 
. J 
This Blair Kiel (5) toss to flanker Van Pearcy ( 84) was good for just two ym¥ls in Saturday's first quarter. (Photo by Scott Bower) 
• • .Arizona 
.. 
continuedfrom page 16 
trolled the ball for only 9:.j2, compared to NO's total time of pos­session of 20: 18. 
To show their appreciation for this, the Irish offense decided to turn the tables on the defense. In the second half, the offense let the defense do all the work. Arizona's of­fense spent nearly 20 minutes on the field, meaning of course that the Notre Dame defense spent 20 minutes on the field. And the last six
~ minutes showed it. 
\. 
The lethargic Irish offense had six
I' 
drives in the second half, one ending 
~ 
in an interception. one in a fumble
I 
recovery and three punts, with the only score a 43-yard field goal by 
Johnston. 
Believe it or not. it was nearly good enough. 
But even the No. I defense against the rush, and No. -~overall, couldn't save the day. 
Arizona, led by gifted quarterback Tom Tunnicliffe's short passing at­tack, had two sustained drives in the fourth quarter. The first resulted in the first rushing touuchdown against the Irish this season, a one­yard plunge by tailback Phil Freeman that capped a 14-play, 79· yard drive and tied the game at 1~ The key play was a jump-pass over­top an all-out blitz from Tunnicliffe to tight end Mark Keel for 14 yards and a first down at the Irish four yard line. 
Then, on the fateful drive, Tun­nicliffe moved the Wildcats with ease. using up the remaining 4: 16 while covering 49 yards in nine plays, setting the stage for Zendejas' winning field goal. 
"In the fourth quarter, it (spending so much time on the 
Saturday's Game Anzona 0 0 6 10 16 
I! Notre Dame 10 0 0 3 13 Scoring NO -Johnston 22 FG ND-P1nkett 25 run (Johnston k1ck) UA-Zendejas 38 FG UA-Zendejas 32 FG
I ND -Johnston 43 FG UA-Freeman 1 run (Zendejas kiCk) UA-Zendejas 48 FG 
UA NO First ctowns 19 15 Rushmg anempts 34 42 Net Yards Rushmg 73 148 Net Yards Passmg 199 80 Passes camp-attempted 19-38 13-21 Had Intercepted 0 0 Total Net Yards 272 228 Fumbles-lost 3-1 3-1
1\ Penalties-yards 4·20 7-30 Punts-aver age 5·37.6 4-39.0 Individual '---r• RUSHING -Anzona: Freeman 11-30, Gntfm 7­
14: Johnson 5·12; Notre Dame Carter 15·52, Brooks 13-47; Pmken 10-37. PASSING -Ar1zona. Tunrnchtfe 19·38·0. 199; 
Notre Dame K~t~113-21-3, 80. RECEIVING-Anzona. Anderson 5-61; Keel4-36; 




Zendejas becotnes fatnily hero ...for now 
By CHRIS NEEDLES centration, so I concentrated a lot Sports Editor more and I knew I wa.o; going to do it this time." A few weeks ago, Nevada-Reno 
Zendejas entered the collegekicker Tony Zendejas set a Division 
ranks with impressive credentials. In II record by kicking five field goals in 
his senior year at Don Antonio l.ugo 
a game. 
High School in Chino. he converted 
Arizona State kicker l.uis Zendejas 
on 16-of-22 field goals and 19-of-19 has had much to do with his team's 
on extra points. Four of his field Top Ten ranking and also made 
goals were over 50 yards, his longestsecond-team AII-Pac-1 0 in his fresh­
being a 55-yarder, and three were man year laM season. 
game winners. It had to make Arizona freshman 
"He's a very tine kicker," saidkicker Max Zendejas, l.uis' brother Arizona Coach Larry Smith. "He'sand Tony's cousin, wonder what he young, but he's learning and he hashad to do to get noticed. That's the the range. He had to kick against the way it is with families -the older wind, and he just went out and did guys get all the attention. 
the job."
Now, Max is the talk of the Zen­dejas family. 
-Zendejas entered Saturday's game having ntade four-of-five field goal
Max's version of "Can You Top attempts, including a ·!3-yarder with
This?" was a <!8-yard field goal as 33 seconds to play last week to put
time expired that boosted Arizona Arizona ahead of UCLA. 24-21. in a
to a 16-13 upset of Notre Dame game the Bruins eventually tied, 24­
Saturday afternoon. 
24. So he had been through all ofthe
Zendejas, a 19-year-old freshman pressure once before.
from Chino, Cali(, showed remarkable poise in booting the final 
Zendejas missed his chance to be points, considering he had badlv a hero last week when UCLA kicker missed on two previous field goal at­
John Lee tied the game at the gun. tempts and was kicking into the 
But he certainly made good on his teeth ofa 1 5 mile-per-hour wind. opportunity on Saturday, splitting "I was kind ofnervous because I'd the uprights with a good, low kick missed two already," said Zendejas that slashed through the wind. 
field) began taking its toll on us, said cornerback Stacey Toran, "simply because we had been put in situations all through the game, like the fumble at the I0-yard line. where you have to make a great stand, you give all your effort, every· thing you have. 
"And when you get into the fourth quarter, and you"re still face with those same situations, it begins to take a toll on you physically. We spent so much time on the field, we began to lose that step, and they were able to hit on the short passes. 
"We have to become a second· half football team, as well as a first· half team." 
"Maybe this game, losing, is a bles~ing in disguise," added Pinkett, "because everytime we go on the field we will remember this. We don't want to lose again. and we'll do everything we can to keep from losing. Next week, I think you'll see a stronger. hungrier, offense." 
Gutless playcalling costs Irish 


"lf-'e earn a tremendous U'ill 01 •er a great foothall team, and the thing we hear most is hem· inconsistent and conserr•atit•e our offense is." -A perturbed Tom Thayer after last week's \1iami game. 
***** 

Sorry. Tom, but it's that time again. 
On Saturdav, :'1/otre Dame gave away an important 
win that may. in the long run. result in the cancellation 
of an awful lot of hotel reservations in New Orleans. 
Credit Arizona fnr their last-second 16-1:, victory, but 
the Wildcats should think of it as an early Christmas 
pre~ent. 
It's amazing how much a loss can magnify a football team's weaknesses. It's even more amazing how much four consecutive wins can make people ignore the truth -the Notre Dame offense is too conservative. 
for some people. "conservative" isn"t the right word. Some other terms (those that are printable) include dull. boring, unimaginative ... 
How about gutless? 
Well, how else would you describe literally sitting on 
a 10-0 tlrst-quarter lead on your home tleld? The Irish 
were gaining yards at will and. all of a sudden. thev 
stopped trying. · 
Don't get me wrong. The players gave their all; it was 
the coaches that quit. that continued to overuse their 
now-familiar "Carter and Hunter and bring on the pun­
ter" offense, even though it gained a measly 52 yards in 
the second half. 
The offense was so conservative that vou"d think 
Notre Dame's coach wasJerry falweiL not Ge;:rv Faust. 
The momentum switched to Arizona at the end ofthe second quarter when the Irish took over with 2:28 to go, three timeouts to their possession and the ball on the 20. Instead of trying for another score-instead of going for the jugular -faust decided to sit on the ball and run out the clock. 
Never mind that he wasted those three timeouts. And, worse yet, never mind that he has a kicker, Mike Johnston, who hasn't missed in II field goal attempts this year. 
Then, after halftime. Blair Kiel promplty threw an in­terception, Joe Howard fumbled a kickoff, and all of a sudden. instead of a 13-0 or even a 17-0 game, it was 10-6. 
Here are some of the sterling Notre Dame second­half"drives": I ). After Arizona's second field goal: 
• 
Caner up the middle for two. 

• 
Brook~ draw play loses four. 

• 
Kiel hits Brooks with screen pass, gain ofsix. 

• 
Punt. 2 ). After an Arizona missed field goal in third quarter: 

• 
Pinkett takes pitch right, gains one. 

• 
Kiel quick out pass to Pearcy, underthrown. 

• 
Kiel completes screen to Brooks. gain offive. 

• 
Punt. 


3). After recovering an Arizona fumble at the All 35 in ­same quarter: 
• 
Brooks runs for five yards. 

• 
Pinkett runs for four yards. 

• 
Brooks up the middle for no l!ain. 


Sports Editor 
• Johnston kicks -1~-yard field goal. Still awake' .\1eanwhile, Arizona was churning out 19"" second­
half yards against an overworked Irish deknse. Don't 
fault the defense -they were on the tleld for 20 of the 
last 30 minutes, and really can be faultt·d for only I 0 of Arizona's points. the other six being giftwrapped by two Irish turnovers. 
Irish tailback Phil Carter, for one, didn't make excuses. "\X'e didn't run at them; we just didn't play," he said. "I don't think they did anything different defensively in the second half. but then we weren't out there long enough to tlnd out." 
That's for sure. The tlnal ~tab were telling, to say tht; lea.'>t. Kiel was 1~-of-21. but for only 80 yards -that's sixyards a reception. His longest completion ofthe day was 13 yards. And I think you'II agree that all of us will get sick if we ever see that ugly fullback screen pass again -that play was run seven times, and resulted in just 24 yards and one interception on Saturday. 
This type ofoffensive ineptne~s ha.~ been, except for the fourth quarter against Miami, the rule in the last three games. The key question is this: Is it the coaches' fault for being too conservative and not effectively using the abilities of a talented offense? Or have the coaches designed this lifeless offense to cater to the players' limited abilties? . 
I lean toward the former. 
The true answer will be determined in the next several weeks. What is known now is that Notre Dame lost a ballgame that they couldn"t afford to lose, but that they richly deserved to lose. 
Now the Irish must go on the road for three tough games (which is a contradiction, because they've made every game a tough one this year). Bowl bids are released on the evening of November 20, and if Notre Dame loses any ofthe five games between now and then 
-and that includes either Pitt or Penn State -then 
you can kiss New Orleans goodbye. Win them, though, 
and Bourbon Street is still a possibility. 
This is a challenge, not a threat. It certainly isn't time · to panic. It's just up to the players to work harder than ever to get back on track, and up to the fans to stay behind them. 
And keep in mind a little post-game advice from Arizoha lineha<;ker Ricky Hunley. who is an All-America linebacker as well as an All-America person and who is not one to kick a team when it's down. His very con­structive criticism was this: "They're a little too con­servative. They think that just because they're Notre Dame that if they can just control the ball for ~0 minutes a game, they'll win. That's not always the case." 
Now we know, Ricky. Now we know. 


JT ohnson 3-30: Gnlfm 3-29, Ward 2·28. Dobyns2-15. amidst the bedlam of the Arizona So, at least for this week, Max is A leaping joe johnson (27) deflects this Tim Tunnicliffe (12) 
Notre Dame: Brooks 5·28. Hvward 4·33; Pearcy 2· 
locker room. "I kicked the ground the star of the Zendejas family. OK, pass at the line ofscrimmage in Saturday's third quarter. (Photo by
10: Hunter 1·13: Carter 1-mmus 4: 
Attendance-59,075 on the first one. It was all in my con-Luis and Tony, it's your turn now. Ed Carroll). 
Ihe Observer 



~~4()l~~============================M=o=·n=d=a=y=,O==c=to=b=e=r=1=8=,=19=8=2====p=ag=e===15
Doonesbury 



NOTRE DfiME ~ 
lOOT Tllf GAME 
~Ttl~Y. 

(Ot1~ ON 11 l})tJ ·r ~ 5c ~rviiY }tf11 tT'S 'I MILLION TO OIJC ~HoT. ei'S•DE~. I O•oNT riiL 4 
The Daily Crossword 
©1~82 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 
10/18182
All Rights Reserved 


ACROSS 32 Up tight 1 Pretty­33 Aleutian 
picture island 4 Polishes 34 Black and 9 Bondmoney White 
13 Above 35 Greek 14 Arabian letter 
gazelle 36 Surrendered 15 Boleyn by deed 16 --garou 39 Paid 
(werewolf) notices 17 Have no 40 Anent 
success 42 Rachel's 19 Hindered sister 21 Cardigan 43 Street show 22 Suit maker 45 Dweller 24 Jack of 47 Pacific 
clubs island 25 Oak fruit group 27 Worthyof 48 Resinous 
love substance 
Saturday's Solution 


49 American 18 Endure 

cameras 25Rose 58 Courtesies fragrance 60 Secrete 26 Halt 61 Cassini 28 Sprint 
of fashion 29 Take into 62 Shell considera· feature lion 
63 Plenty. 30 Burdened old style 31 Curves 64 Hardy 33 May it be 
heroine so! 65 Cupidity 37 Voting into 66 Highways: office 
abbr. 38 Worthless stuff 
DOWN 41 Petroleum 1 Particle drilling 2 Full meal gear 3 Seems 44 One more 4 Doughnut· 46 -Eireann 
like rolls 47 Prejudiced 5 Hives 50 Name in 6 Suitable farm equip· 7 Swamps men! 8 Sluggish 51 Glasgow 
one native 
9 West Indies 52 Bridge island support group 53 Currier's 

10 Dill seed partner 11 Concerning 54 Nova, for 12 Salacious one 
look 56 Fusses 13 MacGraw 57 Unused or Saba 59 Cold stuff 
Campus 

•12:
1 5 p.m. -Workshop, "The Changing Cen­ters of Modernity," Prof Edward A. Tiryokian, Library Lounge, Sponsored by Sociology Depart­ment 

•4 
p.m -Lecture, A Visit with Hugh Stubbins, Hugh Stubbins, Architecture Auditorium 

•4:20 
p.m.-Physics Colloquium, "Against Put· ring The Phenomena First: The Discovery of the Week Neutral Current," Dr. Andrew Pickering, 118 Nieuwland Science Hall 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Photochemistry of Metal Clusters," Prof. Harry B. Gray, 123 Nieuwland 

•6:45 
p.m. -Rosary Devotions, Grotto 

•7 
p.m. -Monday Night Film Series, "Stagecoach," Annenberg Auditorium. 52 

•7 
p.m. -Sociology Club Meeting, 117 O'Shaughnessy 

•7 
p.m.. 11 p.m. -lnfonnation and Sugges­tion Desk, Library Concourse, Sponsored by A & L Student Advison.· Council 

•"':30 
p.m. -G~est Speaker, Digger Phelps, flan· ner Hall Pit, Sponsored by flanner Academic Com· mission 7:30p.m. 

•7:30 
p.m. ~ Writers and Other Troubadours, Celebration ofPoetry Day, Cornucopia Restaurant, Sl.SO 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Heavenly Writing: Celes­tial Inquiry in the Ancient Near East," Dr. Fran­cesca Rochberg, Library Lounge, Sponsored by History Lounge 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Compendium of Chemical Trivia," Dr. Jack H. Stocker, 105 Science Hall 

•9 
p.m. -Monday Night Film Series, "Just Before Nighttall," Annenberg Auditorium, S2 


. T.V. Tonight .

6p.m. 
6:30P.M. 
7p.m. 
7:30p.m. 8p.m. 
IOp.m. 
16 ~ewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 r-.:ewswatch 28 34 The ,\1acNeil/Lehrer Report 16 MASH 22 FnmilyFeud 28 Tic Tac Dough }4 Strdight Talk 16 Little House on the Prairie 22 Square Pegs 28 That's Incredible 34 The Shakespeare Plays 22 Private Benjamin 16 Mondar Night at the Movies: "Farewell For The Pope" 
22 CBS .\1onday Night Movie 
28 ABC Monday Night Football 
16 NewsCenler 16 
22 .!.?Eyewitness :"<ews 
34 The Dick Cavell Show 

10:30 p.m. 16 Tonight Show 22 TrapperJohn and Columbo 
The saga of a

B •
rtan. 
6 month old domer. 


THE LAUNDR~ SHRANK 
BRlAN's DIAPERS. 
.. 

The STUDENT UNION 
proudly presents an evening with 
Monday, November 8 8p.m. 
tix $10.50 and $11.50 On sale at the S.U. Box Office 
-------~­
Monday, October 18, 1982 -page 16
Snorts 

Offense falls asleep; 'Cats tiptoe past Irish 
By ED KONRADY tdcvision. the first game of the .\j}()rts Writer ~ea,.,on, all that t·:-.po~ure. "I think that\ what a lot of gu) s 
Just when you thought it wa~ safe are looking for." Hunter cominut·d, to go hack to tht' ~tadium. the I ')HI "and they can't get up that high. 1 version of the flounJering Irish think that's what i~ hurting us right rt-'tUrnt'd to South lknJ. now 
The Arizona Wildcab ddeateJ \\ hatever the rea"ms. the Irish of­"'iotre Dame 16-1 ~ Saturdav on on a fense wa.' rather offensive in the tleld goal hy freshman :\lax .Zendejas sc:cond half ;'l.;otrt' Dame had tbree 
on the laM plar of the game. Tht.· first downs to Arizon;1's IS; 21 of. Wildcats. however, didn't tame the fensive plavs to Ari:wna·s ·!6. :\otre Irish offense; :\/[) lost its ferocity Dame scored three points tu 
L I 
sometime Juring the halftime show. Arizona's 16. It '1\a.,n't a pretty sight. 
"It's hard to explain," said tight "They (the Wildcats) did a nice end Tony Hunter. 'I Jon't know. job of coming down the fit'ld," said Wt''re not coming off the hall, we're Irish Head Coach Gerry faust, "and not intense enough. It's harJ to ex­thq· threw very wc:IL You have to 
plain whv. hut this should wake us give Arizona crt_.dit; thev had an ex­up. "There has heen an emotional cellent gameplan and did a heckuva 
... 
letJown ever since the 'li<:higan job." game hecause that was such a high. Howe\·er much Fau~t credits the It seems that everyone is trying to Wildcats. it was ohvious that the 
Uniuersity of Arizona quarterback Tim Tun­achieve that same emotional high. Irish lost this game, Arizona Jidn't nicliffe uL•oids the Notre Dame rush in Saturday's and that's impo~sihlc. You can't win it. "At halftime, we didn't have 16-13 Wildcat l'ictory, compare that game. It was national to adjust much,·· admitted Arizona 
Head Coach Larry Smith. Fortunately for him and his team, :'1/otre Dame adjustt'd for them.
Win Game Five, 6-4 
"The change in the second half was us." said Hunter, who <;aught on­ly one pa's in the game. "There was a
Yount's record day paces Brewers to Series lead 
letdown hecause subconsciously we felt we had the game. At halftime. realistically, we should have been up1\HLWAL:KEE ( AP) Robin up a single to Darrell Portt'r. hut overcast skies. The :vt ilwaukee of­stranded on third. 
a couple of touchJowns. But we
'Yount capped a record second four-struck out Willie McGee. the hno of fense copied the weather. lt never The Brewers scored their third didn't do the job, and paid for it inhit game with a home run, leading Game 3, and got pinch-hitter Gent' poureJ. It just sprinkled. run in the tlfth inning, when they left 
the second halt: We just let down."

the Milwaukee Brewers to a 6-4 tri· Tenace to fly out to left to preservt' The Brewers. who have had at the bases loaded. Charlie Moore led In the tlrst half, it lo<)ked likeumph over the St. Louis Cardinals the victory. least 10 hits in four ofthe tlve games, offwith a douhle and took third on a Arizona might just get burned in ayesterday and a one-game edge in The Series returns to Busch had II yesterday, giving them 5~ for grounder to second byJim Gantner. 
stadium where the temperature was
the 79th World Series. Stadium in St. Louis tomorrow night. the Series. :\tolitor drove \1oore home with a 46 degrees at gametime. The IrishResponding to the t·heers of With one out in the first inning. single to kft. and Yount followed offense moveJ the ball with author­"MVP. 'fVP" from the crowd of The last j() times the Series has Yount smgled off forsch·s left foot. with a ground single off the glove of 
ity and scored a touchdown on
S6,S62, Yount had a double and two been tied at two victorit:s each, the Cecil Cooper singled into right lleld. third ba..,eman Ken Oherkfe!l, who freshman tailback Allen Pinkt'tt's 2S­~ingles along with his solo homer in winner of (;ame 5 went on to win hut Yount had to stop at second as dove to hts right. Molitor stopped at yard run. The Irish had I l.., yardsthe seventh inning. He scored twice tht: c·hampionship 2~ times. The he waited for the hall to drop in front second rushing in the tlrst hal( with Markand figured in two of !\1ilwaukee's Cardinab will try to heat the odds in of Hendrick. the Cardinal right fiel­After forsch got Cooper on a pop­Brooks gc:tting -40 of those on eightother runs. Game 6 with rookie right-hander der. up. he walked Simmons on li>Ur carries.
Yount, who also had four hits in John Stuper. while .\1ilwaukee will Forsch. trying to pick Yount oft pitches to load the bases. Ben 
Brooks. who replaced the injured
Game 1, is the first player in Series go with veteran Don Sutton. second. threw the hall into center Oglivie, who cahle into the game Larry Moriarty, performed admirab­history to have two four-hit games. Boh Forsch. who opposed tleld for an error, allowing Yount to with just two hits in 15 Series at-hats. 
ly. finishing with -ti yards rushingCaldwell in (iame 1, started again f(Jr
lie now has I I hits and six RBI in 21 take third and Cooper to advance to had a 2-2 count when Forsch threw a 
and 2H yards on th-e receptions. the
at-hats in the Series. The Hrewers St. Louis yesterday. Although less econd. Yount scored on a grounder high outside fastball that Oglivie 
most receptions of any Irish player
lead the best-of-seven championship than perti:ct, he was better than his to tlrst by catcher Ted Simmons. waved at to end the inning. 
on Saturday.

! three games to two. tlrst time around. when he yie!Jed forsch retired the Brewers in or­Yount. who hit .3.-\ 1 with 29 home Kicker Mike Johnston con­
For winning pitl:her \like I 0 hits and four t'arned runs in <; 2-5 der in the second, but walked leadoff runs and 11-t RBI in the regular trihuted the first of his two fieldinnings. batter Paul Molitor in the third.
Caldwell. tht' game was in stark con­season, knocked in his sixth Series goals. which made him a perfect 11­
This time, the Brewers scratched Yount followed with a double into run with his two-out homer in the of-11 on the season, and Notre Dametrast to his three-hit. 10-0 master­
for their runs, scoring one each in the left-tleld corner. sending :vtolitor led l0·0 at the halfpiece in Gamt· I. This time, the seventh. 
Cardinals battled Caldwell in each the first, third. fifth and ~eventh in­to third and hringing Coopt.·r to bat. The inning was the last for forsch, The defense in the tlrst halfwa..o; its
inning, banging out 14 hits and tlnal­nings as forsch scattered eight hits Cooper hit a high houncer to Her­and reliever Sutter was greeted 
usual awesome self, holding Arizona
ly chasing him with one out in the in seven innings. Milwaukee added nandez at tlrst base. The ball took a rudely in the eighth. After Simmons to four tlrst downs. 31 yards net rus­
top of the ninth. two more runs in the eighth off the monster hop to Hernandez's right, struck out, Oglivie singkd up the 
hing, and a grand total of "'S yarJs
Boh 'tcClure. who saved Game 4, Cardinals' ace reliever, Bruce Sutter. and the Gold Glove first haseman middle. Sutter struck out Gorman total offense. The Wildcats con·
camt: in after Keith Hernandez tlelded it as it skipped past hi~ head. Thomas, but walked Don Money on doubled in one run and scored on a Twice during the third and sixth :\tolitor scored, but Hernandez's 
See ARIZONA page 14 

single hy George Hendrick. He gave innings, a very light rain fell from play saved one run as Yount was See SERIES page 12 



.\'otre IJal.'le quarterhacl.! Hlair A'i<'l ( 5) bands ... and Pinkett pmrers up the middle. eludtng Rar ojfto ji'esbman tuillmck Allen Pinkett (.!0) in .Hort•t (.!6) unci another Arizona tackler on his .\aturclay'sjirst qtwrter. ll'lll', 
!' 




