' ' Crime dog-page 3
' 

VOL. XVI, NO. I .26 TUESDAY, APRIL 6, 19H2
the mdependent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 

CINDY COLDIRON 
StaffReporter 
Describing a recent meeting in Vienna with top scientists from around the world, Fr. Theodore Hes­burgh said yesterday that although it would be difficult, nuclear prolifera­tion could be stopped. 
Speaking to a capacity crowd in the library Auditorium yesterday af. ternoon on the International Con­
ference held in Vienna last February, Hesburgh noted that "we cannot destroy the knowledge man has on how to destroy each other by nuclear power." 
He described the Vienna meeting as "a marvelous three day meeting which included a lot of indirect talks." 
This meeting, Hesburgh.said, was the first of four steps to compose a document on nuclear disarmament. He noted that the first one had al­ready been undertaken successfully. 
Referring to his meeting with Soviet President Brezhnev a week before the Vienna meeting, Hes­burgh said that Brezhnev stated that this issue had been on his mind for years and he had also wanted a group ofscientists to get together to discuss the issue. 
Remarking that the Russians had been very cordial at the meeting, Hesburgh said that we had "plenty of reasons to be scared ofeach other." 
The second meeting will take place in Rome where a Pontifical Academy will study the draft of the document to limit the buildup of 
First meeting 
Burke introduces neUJ ideas 
'International Document' 

Hesburgh details Vienna goal 
Reagan condemns USSR, wants talks 
nuclear arms from the first meeting and this document will then be sent to the top scientific academies ofthe world, Hesburgh said. 
They in turn will be invited to meet in Rome around September, af. ter they have had a chance to talk about the document with the people oftheir own countries. 
Lastly, these people will go back to Vienna and have a meeting of world religious leaders, not just Christian leaders, according to lies­burgh. At this time, "we will hope that all of the religious groups will take this document to the world." 
Hesburgh felt that the "ultimate solution is a political solution and we haven't had enough pressure on politicians to get anything done." 
Since becoming involved with the issue of nuclear proliferation, lies­burgh remarked that he has been getting anywhere from 2'5·'50 letters a week on this topic. He said that the letters, of which one-third were from overseas, showed a "spontaneous outpouring of con­cern." 

ByDANKOPP 
Neu•sStaff 
IJoyd Burke and Bob Yonchak, 
the Student Body President and Vice 
Presidrnt, introduced new 
project ideas at the first Student 
Senatr meeting of their administra­
tion. 
Yonchak explained at the 
meeting, held in Hayes-Healey last 
night, two projects he is personally 
working on. 
llis first project is to increase the number of tickets for Notre Dame football away games. Yonchak noted that of the five thousand tickets given away, only two hundred are given to the students. "We're going to really push the ticket allocation to students for the Michigan State and Pittsburgh games," he said. "These are games the students will really 
want to go to." 
Yonchak said he was mystified at how he was going to convince the University to give the students more tickets. "We need some way to get the students riled up about this," he said. 
Secondly, the administration wants to plan a a study of social events in women's dorms. "The women's dorms, as far as social events, are really lacking," Yonchak stated. "They probably have the best party space on campus." Yonchak plans to send out surveys to the rec­tors of the dorms to determine if this is due to hall restrictions. 
In addition, Yonchak plans a fea.,ability study of charging girls at parties. Yonchak stated that he wants women to "share the burden, so the guys don't have to carry all the brunt. We're trying to eliminate many of the 'wanderers', girls who come in, 'steal' a beer, and leave." 
Some of Murday's proposals which Burke promised to follow up on are the Academic Committee, so­cial survey, Off Campus Co-op, lost 
J.D. policy, and class fund allott­ment. He praised Murday's work and promised to continue working to make the Student Senate a more ef­fective organization. 
SecondLady Bush speaks at lecture series 
By MARGARET FOSMOE 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor 

Barbara Bush, wife ofVice President George Bush, will discuss her 
personal interests and her experiences as Second Lady of the llnited 
States in a 4 p.m. speech today in the Annenburg Auditorium of the 
Snite Museum. 

Bush will speak as the fifth lecurer in Notre Dame's "Distinguished 
American Women" series, celebrating a decade of co-education at 
the University. 

Wife of the vice president and mother ofsix children, Bush's per­
sonal interests include the eradication of illiteracy and volun­
teerism, according to Sr. john Miriam jones, coordinator of the 
lecture series. 

"Mrs. Bush was asked to speak in the series specifically because she is not a professional and career-oriented woman. She is the only one of the seven speakers who is involved primarily in the sup· portive role ofwife and mother. In those terms, she is the exception to the rest of the women in the series," jones said. 
Bush has been involved in volunteer work in cancer wards with the American Cancer Society since the loss of a four-year-old daughter to leukemia. 
Bush is also a frequent lecurer on China and Washington. Bush lived in China during her husband's stint as U.S. Ambassador to China in 1974-7'5, and returned to Peking in 1977. She later became a member of the National Committee on U.S.-China relations. 
WASHINGTON (AP)-President Reagan roundly condemned the Soviet llnion yesterday for its ac­tions in Afghanistan, but also held out hope that he and President Leonid Brezhnev can meet this sum­mer to talk about arms control. 
"I think it would be well ifhe and I had a talk," Reagan told reporters in the Oval Office. 
Reagan also predicted that employment would lag behind the rest of the economy in recovering from the recession. He said the job­lessness rate may climb higher than the 9 percent level it reached in March. That's the highest unemploy­ment rate since World War II. 
"There may be even more un­employment," Reagan said just before climbing into a motorcade to the hotel where he was shot a year ago. He brought with him a speech which included a plea to the recession-battered construction in­dustry to fall in line with him and his economic program. 
The speech also was highly criti· cal of the Soviets. 
"We will not remain silent when, in Afghanistan, yellow rain is dropped on innocent people, solemn agreements are flagrantly broken, and Soviet helicopters drop thousands of'butterfly' mines which maim and blind Afghan children, who pick them up thinking they are toys," Reagan said in his prepared remarks. 
He said also that Americans will "not accept martial law" in Poland. "They demand that Lech Walesa and the political prisoners of Solidarity be set free." 
"Never again," Reagan said, "will we shrink from denouncing the ter­rible nightmare totalitarianism has wrought: occupation of an entire section of Europe; genocide in Cam­bodia; boat people in Vietnam; a bloody invasion of Afghanistan, and everywhere the suppression of human rights and growing want from economic failure." 
Reagan spoke at the Washington Hilton Hotel at the opening of the AFL-CIO's Building and Construc­tion Trades Department legislative and political conference. He had just finished speaking to this same group March 30 last year when he was shot outside the hotel. 
On the economy, Reagan said "America faces a challenge of courage in the months ahead that will be decisive." 
He said the recession might have been avoided or curtailed if the ad· ministration and Congress had not agreed to scale hack his income tax· cut program and delay its starting date. "We must not compound that error," "There is good reason to believe the recession is bottoming out." Several boos pierced the restrained applause Reagan received when he was introduced to the con­ference delegates by Robert A. Georgine, president of the AFL­CIO's Building and Construction Trades Department. 
The president, seeming un­daunted, opened his speech by thanking the delegates "for your warm welcome." 
On the economy, Reagan said, "America faces a challenge of courage in the months ahead that will he decisive." 
Reagan said the recession might have been avoided or curtailed ifthe administration and Congress had not agreed to scale back his income tax-cut program and delay its start· ing date. "We must not compound that error," "There is good reason to believe the recession is bottoming out." 
But his address was received cool­

ly by the delegates. 
To reporters, who met with him in the first of what the White House said will be frequent informal ses­sions, Reagan restated his belief that the Soviet llnion has a nuclear edge over the United States. 
Reagan said he would address a llnited Nations disarmament con­ference in New York in june and he suggested that Brezhnev do the same. Then, he added, the super­power leaders should sit down and talk. 
Reagan said he does not know if the ailing Soviet leader is healthy enough to take part in such a con­ference. 

News Brie/§ 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
President Reagan, refusing yesterday to back away from his opinion that the Soviet Union has a nuclear edge over the United States, invited Soviet President Leonid I. Brezhnev to join him in addressing the United Nations on disarmament. Asked if the. speech should coincide with a summit conference, Reagan told reporters: "I think it would be well ifhe and I had a talk." "This whole idea .... ofarms reduction, arms control, is one ofthe most impor­tant things that is facing us, and I hope that we'll both be able to address the (U.N.)conference," Reagan said. West German Chancel­lor Helmut Schmidt, French President Francois Mitterrand, British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher and Japanese Prime Minister Zenko Suzuki are expected to address the conference, which will be held from June 7 to July 9 at the United Nations. White House spoke!>man David R. Gergen said he had no indication that Brezhnev would attend. Reagan was expected to take part in mid-June, after returning from economic and NATO meetings With U.S. allies in Europe. -AP 
The Soviet Foreign Ministry tried to end speculation about the health of President Leonid I. Brezhnev by announcing yesterday that he "is on his regular winter rest." A foreign Ministry spokesman made the statement in response to a question from The Associated Press about published Western reports that the 75-year-old Brezhnev was ill and might be replaced as leader of the Soviet government or the Communist Party. He refused to say where Brezhnev is staying, when he began the rest, or how long he would be gone. If " 'iS the first time the Foreign Ministry has answered a question onthe health or whereabouts of hrezhnev orhiscolleagues on the 13-memberruling Politburo. The controlled Soviet press has made no mention of Brezhnev's health nor has it commented on persistent reports from Soviet sources that he is ailing. The official news agency Tass customarily reports on Brezhnev's regular summer holidays in the Crimea when he usually is visited by heads ofother East bloc countries. -AP 
A British fleet primed for war sailed for the Falkland Islands yesterday and Britain's foreign secretary resigned, bowing to national outrage and hum1liation over Argentina's seizure of the is­lands. After Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher said, "We have to regain the islands," the aircraftcarriers Invincible and Hermes put to 
sea with a send-off from tens of thousands of cheering, llag-waving Britons-some ofthem in tears. The carriers will lead an armada of 40 warships in a bid to reclaim the remote colonial outpost in­habited by 1,800 British sheepherders. The South Atlantic Islands were seized Friday by an Argentine military force. Foreign Secretary lord Carrington resigned, saying he assessed the situation wrongly "and therefore I am responsible." He was replaced by former Defense Secretary Francis Pym, now leader of the House of Com­mons. Mrs. Thatcher, facing the worst crisis in her three years in office, rejected the resignation of Defense Secretary John Nott, saying he is needed "as our forces prepar for the possibility ofarmed action" to wrest back the islands Britain has held for 149 years. -AP 
At the former u.s. Embassy in Tehran, where Iran's revolutionaries say they brought a superpower to its knees, the anti-American slogans are fading from the walls, while in their place, banners trumpet a new victory -over the Iraqi army. The 27-acre compound, prison for 52 American hostages during much of their IS-month captivity in 1979-81, remains locked, unused, and watched over by the militia-like Revolutionary Guards, assault rifles slung over their shoulders. On the sidewalks outside, where chants of"Death to America!"' and "Down with Carter!" once reverberated, Iranians now remind visitors oftheir country's battlefield successes. "And we did it without the Americans," one man told a Western reporter. "It was an Iranian victory," said another. "There were no Russians and no Americans." The Iranians, who launched a major offensive against the Iraqi invasion force in western Iran two weeks ago, claim to have pushed the Iraqi army 25 miles back from the deepest penetration it had made into Iranian territory since the war began in September 1980. -AP 
In a ringing endorsementof "robust political debate," the Supreme Court said yesterday that candidates enjoy broad free-speech rights even when making promises they cannot keep. The justices ruled unanimously that a Kentucky politician's 1979 election could not be set aside because he promised to cut his salary if elected. A Kentucky anti-bribery law prohibits candidates from offering material benefits to voters in exchange for their sup­port. Jefferson County commissioners' salaries were fixed by law, making Carl Brown's pay-cutting pledge undeliverable. But the high court said neither the law nor the faulty promise could override Brown's free-speech rights. "The free exchange of ideas provides special vitality to the process traditionally at the heart of American constitutional democracy -the political campaign," justice Wil­liam J. Brennan wrote for the court. -AP 
Windyand coldtodaywith flurries. High in the low 30s. Tonight and tomorrow fair and cold. Diminishing winds tonight. Low tonight in the teens and high tomorrow in the upper 30s to low 40s. 
Tuesday, April 6, 1982 --page 2 
Spring brings more than snow 
Snow. 

Once again spring has sprung in South Bend. Happily we aren't being tempted to be lax in our studies by warm weather, sunny skies, or moderate temperatures. Instead mother nature has shown a practical (sadistic?) streak and showered us with white goo. Mother Nature has a way oflooking out for our academic welfare. 
It seems as though Mother Nature and the University 

administration are in cahoots, attempting to prevent 
the youthful among us from enjoying the rites ofspring, evil look followed by: "It doesn't look that way now." the traditional season of rebirth. Somewhat taken aback I moved to the next table where The snow justifiably dampens spirits. There's the my friends and I had plenty of room, and the company 
poor person who took all their sweaters home at break. was friendlier. What motivated this individual to There is the person who wants to wear shorts to flaunt behave in a manner befitting a territorial first grader? I their tanned legs. In a similar vein are those who don't don't know. Even if she just got a less then satisfactory have tanned legs but would like to. Finally there are grade on a test, she has no reason to become so surly. 
those poor bookstore teams, you know, the one's with College is supposed to be the best years ofa person's 
the off-color names; basketball takes on a whole new life. The all-nighters, the hangovers, incessent testing, 
personality when played in drifts. dull boring classes, sub-sub-sub-sub-tropical weather, 
Anybody even daring to say something nice about the and all the other aspects of college life that make it so 
snow is bound to find himselfburied under it. Thus the memorable. Despite these joys, the passage of time 
general malaise Induced by this deluge is understand­seems to obscure the bad as is evidenced by the 
able, but what about the bigger and more general alumni's love for the place. But while you are here, why 
malaise which affects life at Notre Dame and Saint add to the day to day tension by having hostile attitude. 
Mary's. Recent studies have shown 
~ 

It can be heard during the that college students have 
~ "): LOVE S()'J1"~ f£NO IN i'rl~ SPRIN&fiME;
fall, winter, and during the the highest number ofulcers albeit short spring. It is a 11''S VJHfR£ 1 '-OVE 10 BL ~ J per person then such tradi­
combination of apathy and tional high-pressure occupa­
J w"fN' fllf s~w s1~s kF.4WNG 1w AfRIL,
frustration that takes many tions as advertising, or used forms. It can be heard from a h rW JifA~J LfAPS ::JO'(OV51.Y. tf car sales. Simply taking a bunch of males complaining calm and good-natured at­about: "the girls that won't titude in life will result in an
~ 

ever go out." It can be heard overall better sense of well coming from girls complain­being, and be better for your ing: "boys never ask us out." stomach and mental health 
The dining halls are as well. hotbeds of ill-humor. A per­Christmas is the traditinal son who doesn't have some-time of giving, but Easter 
thing derogatory to say should be as well. The oc­
caission commemorates theabout the food is a rarity. I'm 
* 
not defending the edible death ofa Man who gave his fare, besides turning to a life for us all. What could be neighbor and exclaiming: more giving then that. As an "Excuse me, but is your individual there is not much caserole moving?" is a great way to start a conversation. you can do to allieviate world hunger, stop the arms But many grasp a greasy pork chop as an excuse to pon­race, or find cures for fatal diseases. However you can der anti-social thoughts. Nothing can be gained by do something just as worthwhile by trying to be as nice sneering at the workers. They don't fix the food, they and friendly to friends and strangers alike. Good humor 
don't select the f t ood, they only slop it on your plate. won't solve all problems, but it does wonders for Many of them work long hours to afford the food that making them seem less hopeless. students sneer at them about all day. It is amazing the effect that can result from asking for seconds with a smile, and uttering "Thank you" sincerely and often. The views expressed in the Inside column are the 
Sometimes mere good spirits can produce extra hel­views of the author, and do not necessarily represent 
pings ofan entree you actually like. the views ofThe Observeror its editorial board. 
The actual eating areas of the Dining Halls often 
resemble battlefields. I have seen people almost knock 
others down in a mad scramble for mint-chip ice cream. 
Rather then sneering at someone as you step on their feet, smile happily and say: "Oops, I'm sorry" or "Excuse me." While preparing this column I took a quick trip to dinner. Finding a place for my friends and I to sit, I placed my tray down. Suddenly a female plopped hers down next to mine, and 1 said: "Oh excuse me, but I had hoped my friends could sit there." Her response was an 
Observer notes.________, The Observer is always looking for new repor­ters. If you like to write and can devote a few hours each week to reporting, visit our office on LaFortune's third floor. Talk to one of our new .s editors. They'll be glad to get you started. 
Design Editor................. Suzanne La Croix Design Assistants ................... Kay Holland Troy Illig Typesetters .......................... Stephen Brown 
Steve Burg News Editor ............................ Mike Wilkins CopyEditor............................... Ed Konrady Features Layout........................ Tari Brown Sports Copy Editor............. Skip Desjardin Sports Layout................... Micheal Ortman Typtst .................................... John McCarthy 
Editorial Layout........... Mike McCaughey B & T Layout ............................. Alex Szllvas NDDayEdttor................. Karen McMahon SMC Day Editor.................Julia Trimarchi Ad Design ............ ..................... Corby Salek Photographer ....................... Rachel Blount GW!st Appearances ...Joe and his girl Leo Tbe office octet 
Waste Products 

Lots of corrpanies can give you a job that says engineer.
A Broken Flasher 

But h:J\o~ rrany give you a real engineer's resp6iisibility?
Across the frozen tundra comes... the 

In the Navy, you get it fast. OJr mx::lear Fropulsion
radio intervitwer, The Great White 

officers start with a year of graduate-level engineering,
North 

at full pay. Then on to noclear-~ sul:rrarines, with hands-on resp:msibility inrrediately. They travel the The Observer !USPS 598 920) 1s 
earn $44,000 after 4 years, and get top benefits. 
published Monday through Fnday and 

If that sounds like your kilXl. of opp:>rtunity, call the on home football Saturdays except 
-Navy Director of Engineering at 1-800-382-9782 or IrBil 
dunng exam and vacat1on penods The 

the coupon below for nore infornati.on. 
Observer IS published by the students of Noire Dame and Sa1nt Marys Col· 

·----------------------­
Mail to: Navy Engineering, 575 N. Pennsylvania, I® 646,
lege Subscnptlons may be purchased 

Indianapolis, lN 46204
for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wntlng The Observer. P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 

~·----------------------~~~-----------­
The Observer IS a member of The 

AOORESS Associated Press All reproduction 
CXlU.EGE/'l)ffi
nghts are reserved Second class postage pa1d at Notre 

~OR ---------------------­
·-------GPA'------------­
Dame. lnd1ana 46556 



The Observer Tuesday, April6, 1982-page 3 
Fearless 

Dog provides crime protection 

By PETER CIOTIA 
News Staff 
Being the victim of a robbery has been an experience many students have encountered living off campus. Yet, joe Skaja, with the help of Leo, has decided to tight back. 
Leo, a two-year-old part-doberman, part-german shepherd, hates crime and is not afraid to make her feelings known. 
Shortly after Spring break, a man was being attacked by a lone mugger outside ofjoe's Frances street home. Aroused by the ensuing struggle, Leo. who was inside the house uedded to take action. 
Finding no open door, Leo t·rashed through Joe's living room window, braving the threat of flying gla!>s. 
The startled attacker tled at the 
sound ofLeo's bark, not caring to see 
1f she had a bite to match. 
l c•o, the close companion ofNotre Dmne seniorjoeSkaja, is also IJisprotection ugai11st crime. The dog bas broken up tbree crimes at .\kaja's home. See story• at right. (Photo by Rachel Blount) 
Springtime campus 
Maintenance primes grounds 
By VIC SCIULLI 
News l!ditor 
Spring may mean warm weather 
and tun for studems but its cleanup 
time tor the grounds maintenance 
crew at Notre Dame. 
"Cleanup begins immediately af­ter the snow melts," said Bill Thistlethwaite, superintendent of Notre Dame's ground maintenance. "Winter ravages everything and a great amount of work must be done." 
Four hundred tons of slag sand which is spread on the twelve miles of sidewalk during snowy weather must be picked up by snow plows. Slag sand, a byproduct of steel mills, packs down on snow better than sand or cinder, making it grittier and easier to walk on. 
A great deal ofsod dug up by snow plows and destroyed by the weather must be replaced each spring. "The South Quad's mud football games are a personal headache," said Thlstlethwaite jokingly. "We know people are going to play on the grass, all we c.mdo is to keep it up." () The cost of sod compared to 
grass seeds is much greater but its 
efficiency makes up for the price, 
said Thistlethwaite. Once the grass is in place, it will not blow or wash away and does not need fertilizing. A great deal of maintenance cost is eliminated. 
New buildings are a significant · consideration for the ground main­tenance crew. Traffic plans change with each new building, creating more paths in the grass. If the pat­terns don't change, sidewalks are put in. 
Ground maintenance used a great deal ofsod last summer to landscape the new Pasquerilla dorms. 
A great deal of work is done to prime the campus for commence­ment in May. "Because of the num­ber people present on campus, it's a good time to show off the place," said Thistlethwaite. "The fact that Alumni weekend follows this next weekend is coincidental." 
Thistlethwaite described the cost of maintenance as "not that ex­pensi:ve." The most costly aspect of maintenance is snow removal. The increase in labor costs were an im­portant reason for this. Often times, snow fell during off-hours and employees had to be paid overtime. 
Thistlethwaite said that there are 20 employees under him, not 


fin evening created by Greg o·fllessandro and 
I 

Anne Slowey. 
April 6th & 7th lpm .) 
I 
SMC Little Theatre Admission S1 J 
IJ 
j 
ANND-SMCTHEATRELAB I PRODUCTION. 
....... 
~-­

---'"t"· 
Skaja is a Notre Dame senior :md lived in St. Ed's Hall until May 1980, when he purchased Leo. 
Still living in St. Ed's, Skaja con-
enough to split shifts. "A lot of employees have to put in 1H-19 hours ofwork a day. It is not uncom­mon to see people with 85 hours of work a week," he added. 
A meteorlogical service is used to predict area weather but planning is still difficult. "You have to expect the worst and hope for the best," Thistlethwaitc said. 
Operating costs also increase during the winter months. Snow 
See MESS, page 4 

sidered keeping the dog undercover until he was ready to move the following semester. When Skaja's rector, Fr. Mario Pedi, learned about Leo, Pedi reminded him that Univer­sity rules do not allow students to have pets. 
Faced with the choice ofgiving up Leo or immediately moving off campus, Skaja chose the latter, and claims he has no regrets. 
Skaja said he kept Leo because stu­dents who had lived on Frances Street before him were robbed three times and that he wanted something to prevent this from happening to him. 
Skaja trained Leo to bark on com­mand, but it seems the dog's natural instincts are its greatest asset in its fight against crime. 
Skaja's house has already been the focus of two robbery attempts, one in which robbers attempted to kick in his screen door. 
Neither attempt has been success­ful, thanks to Leo. 
In· all, Leo has directly prevented three crimes while serving in her watch dog capacity. She is oblivious to risk as Is evident by her window sma..~hing leap and fearless con­frontations with would-be crinlinals. 

r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, 
t amanOatORV m€€ttnqwtllB€t t h€Lb tu€sbay, apRtl6tht ~oR anyon€ t t lnt€q€St€b 10 PaRtiCIPAttn(i on next t t .Y€aR s Class abvtsoRy Counctls on th€ t t S€conb ~looR 1n l.al=oRtune. t t & Class of :83 .... .5:30 M t t • 84 ..... 6:30 .... t ' '85 ..... 8:00 J 
~ ~~ ~~
...... ..... ~~~.-. .....-......,........ ~ ...... 
SAT., APRIL 10 7:30P.M. Notre Dame A.C.C. 
Admossoon $7 50 (lower arena) · $6.00 (bleachers) 
$2.00 Doscount Youths (12 & under) & Senoor Cotozens 
S2.00off also NO SMC Students-Facully-Staff 
Tickets on sale A.C.C. Box Office 9am -Spm 
FRESHMAN PRE-ADVANCE REGISTRATION PROGRAM Pre -advance registration programs will be conducted for freshmen in all college program areas on Tuesday, April6 at 6:30pm. At each program complete info~tion will be given on the advance registration procedures and on the sophomore year and its relationship to the degree curriculum. The meeting places for the programs, according to college program area, are as follows : 
Arts and Letters College Programs (all, including AL Preprofessional) Washington Hall 
Business Administration College Program Hayes-Healy Center, rooms 120, 122, & 124 
Engineering College Programs 
Aerospace Architecture Chemical Civil Electrical Engineering Science Mechanical Metallurgical 
Science College Programs 
Biology Chemistry Earth Sciences Mathematics 
Microbiology Physics Preprofessional (science only) Cushing Hall, room 303 
ArchitectureBu~ding, room 201 
Fitzpatrick Hall, room 356 
Cushmg , rm. 205 
Cushing, rm. 212 
Fitzpatrick, rm . 254 Cushing, rm.l22 Cushing,rm.l05 
.Qalvin Life Science Center, rm. 278 Nieuwland Science Hall, rm. 341 Earth Science ~ldg., rm. 10 1 Computing Center & Math Building., 
rm.226 Galvin, rm.109 Nieuwland, rm. 327 Nieuwland,rm.l27 
ALL FRESHME~ ARE REQUIRED TO ATTEND THE PROGRAM OFTHE COLLEGE OR DEPARTMFNT THEYIN 


The Observer Tuesday, April 6, 1982 -page 4 



iller times::w~ Life· 

The Most Reverend john Mackey, Bishop of Auckland, New Zealand, spoke about a bishop's perspective ofthe church today to an attentive audience last night In the library lounge. (Photo by Rachel Blount) 
80o/oagainst 






Survey shows abortion feelings 
By MICHOLE MADDEN The survey broght to light a few News Staff other intersting results. Although 184 were in favor ofabortion, 110 of As a part of last week's Respect those agree that abortion should be Life Week, the ND-SMC group spon­legally restricted after the second sered a short survey of campus trimeSter. Also, fully 74 percent of opinion concerning abortion. The those surveyed agreed that the un­pro-life group was not only pleased born was either a human being, a with the participation -928 sur­person, a citizen or all three. In veys completed -but also with the response to the sixth question, 78 results. percent of the group believed that 
Of the students whos completed life began at conception. surveys, 80 percent indicated that The purpose of the survey, ­they were against abortion, with 76 according to the president of the percent of those favoring excep­Right To Life group, Pam Fojtik, was tions only in the case of rape, incest, twofold. Their first goal was to severe handicap of the fetus, or revitalize the abortion issue here on when the physical life ofthe mother campus. The group wants the stu­was endangered. dents to be aware and concerned 
about the issue. The survey seemed 
to serve this purpose well. 

Attendance and response at the lectures and movies this past week was encouraging. The Right To Life group was enthusiastic as even the conversations in the dining halls turned to the abf Jn issue. 
The second putpose for the sur­vey was to inform the Right To Life group as to the concerns and feelings of the campus. One thing the survey indicated was a definite need for more readily available in· formation. 43 percent of the stu­dents were not familiar with any of the three bills mentioned -all vital to the abortion issue. 
This will now become one of the goals of the Right To Life group for next year -education, awareness, and action. 
.. . Mess 
continuedfrom page 3 
plowing costs twice as much as nor­
mal plowing because more gasoline 
is used and equipment breaks down 
more frequently. 

Maintenance recently purchased 
a 2 and 1/2 ton dump truck with 
snow plow at a cost of S25,000. 
Thistlethwaite estimates that the 
truck would have cost $9,000 5 
years ago. 
Maintenance is also responsible 

for taking care of the sizable sum of 
American elms on campus. The 
number ofAmerican elms in the U.S. 
have been greatly reduced in the 
past decades due to a fungal disease 
spread by beetles. The beetles 
reproduce in the bark of the dead 
elms. 
Maintenanct> sprays the trees with 
Methoxychlor to prevent Dutch Elm 
disease. Methoxychlor carries only a 
caution label. compared to 
poisonous and dangerous labels 
carried by many insecticides. Met­
hoxychlor completely breaks down 
in the environment in only 60 days. 
"We will not use dangerous 
chemicals and we don't spray just to 
be safe. We only spray when neces­
sary. We are conscious of keeping 
chemicals to a minimum," Thistleth­
waite concluded. 
P•••••••••••••••••• 
I Help Prevent 
Birth Defects ­
The Nation's 
Number One 
Child Health 

Problem. 
Support the , __________________ J March of Dimes 


THE DEATH PENALTY 
A panel discussion 
on Capital pun. with 4 distiguished guest! 
TUES., APRIL 6 8:00-10:00 pm. 
Architect. Aud. rm. 201 
Sponsored by 


Amnesty lntnationa/ 

The Observer Tuesday, April 6, 1982 -page S 
'Executive in residence' 


Beck serves in SMC progrrun 

Applications are now available for the Class of '83 
Senior Formal Chairpersons in the student Activities Office in LaFortune. Deadline for returning the applications 
is T usday April 6 at 5:00. Questions? call Mark Mai at 1183. 


i--RiVERCifY.RECORbs 
I 
Northern Indiana's Largest Selection of Albums & Topea. Why pay more ony place else? 
I $2 00OFF' any regul~r ~ecard or tape with ad.
I • • L1m1t 1 per person
J ·• -Ex ires A ril30, 1982 
I 50970 US 31 North eOpen till 1 0 every night 13 miles N~rth of Campus e ND/SMC checks cashed 
l
next to AI s Supermarket up to $20 over purchase amount 277-4242 • Record Crates available 
-----~-------------------­
Robert A. Beck, chairman and chief executive officer of the Prudential Insurance Company of America, will visit the Saint Mary's College campus April 6-8. Beck will serve as the first participant in the College's new Executive in Residence Program, which was designed to emphasize the relation­ship between Saint Mary's and the business world. 
During his visit, Beck will conduct classes in business, meet informally with students, administrators and staff of the College and discuss cur­riculum with faculty members of te business department. Tomorrow evening, Beck will give a talk on "The Projected Reform of the Social Security System" for members of the Saint Mary's Business Associates Program. 
Since he joined Prudential in 19'51, Beck has served the company in many capacities, including ex­ecutive general manager and vice president of the Newark, NJ, cor­porate office, senior vice president in charge of the Mid America home office in Chicago, executive vice president in charge of marketing, and president. He was elected chair­man of the board and chief ex­ecmive officer in February, 1971-1. 
In addition to his duties at Prudential, Beck is involved in sevt·ral profcs~ional and civic ac­tivities. lie is a director of the Campbell Soup Company and of Xerox Corporation, and trustee of Syracust· lJnivt·rsity and the Com­mimee for Economic Development. lie 1s also a member of President Reagan's National Commmission on Soda! Set·urity Reform. ~11d vice 
Newofficers begin term with Board 
By TERESA WELCH 
News Stuff 
The newly-elected officers of 

Saint Mary's Board of Governance 
began their term last week. Presi­
dent Kathleen Murphy said she 
believes it will he an exciting year 
for her and the other two officers, 
Beth Tighe and Elaine lfocter. 
"The transition is going smooth­ly," Murphy said. "The present of· tkers have been very helpful, and we all have great expectations for the coming school year. We were really pleased with the turnout for the commissioners positions. All of the applicants were well-qualified. The decisions were tough. 
"The interviews for the commis­sioners positions gave Elaine, Beth, and I a clearer insight into what the students really want," Murphy said, "and what they expect from the Saint Mary's Student Government." 
Hthose interested in becoming involved, should apply., 
Murphy said suggesuons were 

more than helpful, and she hopes to 
incorporate them in with her ob­
jectives for next year. 
"We are looking forward to 

working with the student body both 
here: and at Notre Dame," Murphy 
said, emphasizing that there was still 
a place for students interested who 
were not chosen for the commis­
sioners positions. 
Murphy noted that those in· 

tc:rested in becoming involved in 
the Board of Governance should apply for positions on the hoards of the incoming commissioners. Applications for these positions will be available soon. 
chairman of the Kennedy Center cum laude from Syracuse University Corporate Fund board and the in 1950. He received the Chartered United Way of America. A board Life Underwriters designation from member of the American Council of the American College in 1954 and Ufe Insurance, he chairs several the College's diploma in agency ACLI committees and serves as a mmanagement in 1961. In addition, Knight of the Million Dollar Round several colleges and universities Table Foundation and a Knight of have awarded Beck honorary Malta. degrees, including Monomouth Col­
Beck is an alumnus of Fordham lege, Seton Hall University, Rider University and graduated summa College, and St. Peter's College. 


CITY _____ STATE___ ZIP CODE___ SEND TO: NATIONAL PLAID DAY CAMPAIGN PO BOX 699 • HOLLYWOOD, CA. 90028 





Business & Technology_r_uesd_ar,A_pru_6,19_sz_pa_ge6 
Economic Update 
A majority ofAmerican consumers ace worried that the proposed breakup of AT& T and legislation now before Congress could haem telephone service and lead to higher rates, a poll commissioned by A.T.&T. shows. Lou Harris, chairman of Lou Harris & Associates, the concern that conducted the survey, released its findings today. While Mr. Harris found that the public, by a margin of 57percent to 38 percent, was worried that the breakup would lead to higher telephone bills, he also found that 83 percent of those surveyed favored the antitrust settlement "ifit allows A.T.& T. to compete freely and fully with any competitors in developing new computerized uses of the telephone system." 
The average interest rate.charged Americans for new mortgages rose slightly to 17.5 percent in March, continuing the generally upward trend of more than a year, the Federal Home Loan Bank Board said today. The bank board report also said that the number of lenders making loans was up for the fourth consecutive month. The new average effective commitment rate on long-term, fixed-rate mortgages increas t ed two-hundredths of a percentage 
point from February's 17.50 percent, the report said. The january rate was 17. 34 percent, down from 17.51 percent in December, 
18.16 percent in November and the record 18.1 7 percent in Oc­tober. The rate was 15.47percent in March of 1981. 


Wall Street Update 
Stock pricesdrifted lower in slackened trading Monday, giving up a few of the gains they recorded in the rally of the past three weeks. But precious metals issues turned in a strong showing as gold and silver prices rose sharply. The Dow jones average of 30 industrials, up more than 40 points from mid-March through last Friday, slipped ·3.24 to 835.33. New York Stock Exchange volume totaled 46.90 million shares, down from 59.80 million in the pre­vious session. 
Attend 
SEA SEMESTER 
and receive a 
full semester 
credit at Notre Dame 
University. 
One-semester program in 
oceanography and maritime 
affairs. Attend class for six weeks in Woods Hole and 
then join the R/V WESTWARD, a 125' schooner for a six­week research cruise to the North Atlantic, Caribbean, Gulf of Mexico or Sargasso Sea. Semesters start every 
two months year-round. For information contact: 
SEA EDUCATION ASSOCIATION Box 6a ·Woods Hole MA 02543 (617) 540-3954 


Sign-ups for  
SophoTnore LiteraryFestival  
beingtaken at Student Union Office, 2nd floor LaFortune. ALL POSITIONS AVAILABLE Sign-ups April2 -7. •• v .... •• • :.._ • ' ... ,,.. ••: ....... " ............. ··­ 

.·~:l!i;P._::;;;..~.~*-*~1;~ 

Clouds of poisonous smoke billow from the City, Nebraska. Sur-Gro Fertilizer Plant as two National plant was full ofinsecticides, herbicides andfer· Guardsmen, right, patrol the area. The blaze tilizer chemicals. ( AP Laserpboto) forced between 1,000 and 1,300peoplefrom their 
Concluding eleventh year 
TAP aids tax returnprepar~tion 
By ALEX SZILV AS 
B&TEdttor 
For area residents feeling taxed in 
more ways than one at this time of 
year, relief can be spelled in the 
Notre Dame Tax Assistance Program 
(TAP). Entering its eleventh year in 
1982, TAP provides free income tax 
return preparation (Federal and 
State of Indiana) to low income in· 
dividuals in the Michiana area. 
Free tax assistance is available to 
heads of households with incomes 
of s18,000 or less. Students involved 
in the TAP last year filed 1,618 
returns which generated S251,037 
in refunds for area residents. Thus far this year, the program, which began February 6 and extends through April 15, has kept pace with last year's results. 
This year, the TAP has been operating out of eleven centers in South Bend, Mishawaka, Elkhart, and on the campuses of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Unfortunately, a law­suit filed against the Federal AC­TION program caused the closing last week of four ACTION centers that the TAP had been operating out of, reducing the number of active TAP staffed centers to seven for the last few weeks ofthe program. 
The centers ace open at various times throughout the week. The Notre Dame Center is located in the Rathskeller of Lafortune Student Center while the St. Mary's Center is located in the lobby of Lemans Hall. Both are open from 2·5 PM on Wed­nesdays. 



FINE ARTS AUCTION 
O"Hinal Art: Signed & Numbered tchings, Lithographs and Serigraphs: also, 011 Paintings &Posters 
ART WORK PRAIIID AND RIADY TO HANG 
Aoam kandlnlk) 

SUNDAY, APRIL 11 
Amen Klee Alvar Lelande Exhibition : 1 pm Auction : 2 pm Appel Matisse 
RAMADA INN 
Balet Mlro 


52890US 33 S.Bend
8oulanger Neiman Buffet Picasso 
FR!Ee Admission 
• Catalog • Door Pri1e
Calder Renoir 

Penciled signed an1 1 Churchill Rockwell 
numbered original lithograph 
Chagall Vasarely 

VJaa; Maetercard· Personal Chtc:ks~ Cuh Oali and many 
AucllonHr: Dr. CNrle1 Keller Dufv .otheR 
Pr1111tted bJ: THE CWJ.IRY All'AUCTIOIEERS 
In addition to these centers, the TAP has two SWAT (Students Working At Taxation) teams ­SWAT I covers the ACTION centers in Rochester and Plymouth on various Saturdays while SWAT II responds to calls from those unable to seek help from the TAP centers. 
According to Professor Kenneth Milani, coordinator of .the TAP, SWAT II is one ofthe key elements of the Notre Dame program that distin­guish it from other university tax as­sistance programs. "SWAT II assists individuals who would otherwise be unable to obtain help," he said. "Some of the people SWAT II has helped include cancer patients, handicapped individuals and retire­ment home residents." Prof. Milani adds that another differentiating feature of the Notre Dame program is "that we go out directly to the low income neighborhoods rather than just setting up centers on campus." 
Support for the TAP comes from many sources. Individuals from public accounting firms in South Bend and the Notre Dame faculty of­fer their services as supervisors, resource persons and tax prepacers. Supplies ace provided by the Inter­nal Revenue Service and the Indiana Department of Revenue. Funds come from the College of Business Administration and the Department ofAccounting. 
Fourty-five seniors from the Col­lege of Business Administration are participating in the program. All of the students have successfully com­pleted the Introduction to Federal Taxation course. During the second 
semester, they enroll in a one-hour course that meets regularly during the first three weeks for training. Student teams are assigned to each center or to a SWAT group. The weekly commitment of time averages to about five hours per stu· dent. A final written report tha focuses on reactions and recom­mnedations is assigned and com­pletes the course for the students involved. 
"We have received very favorable feedback from the students par­ticipating in the program," Milani stated. "It has been a very eye­opening experience for those in­volved. They have seen a completely different side ofSouth Bend than the one they are exposed to here at Notre Dame." 
Milani also remarked that the stu· dent recomendations are taken very seriously. "SWAT II was initiated about three years ago," he noted, "based on the suggestion ofone stu­dent's report." 


Notre Dame hosts case competition 
Graduate students in business ad­ministration at the Universities of Ohio State, Illinois and Missouri ace competing against Notre Dame in the first invitational M.B.A. case competition which began Sunday, April 4 in the Center for Continuing Eduation. Finals of the competiton, open to the public, are being held at 
10 a.m. and 1:30 p.m. today. 
Funded in part by a grant from the Johnson and Johnson Companies of New Brunswick, New jersey, the competition is designed to test the talents of students in diagnosing, isolating and defining problems; creating and evaluating alternative courses ofaction, and making practi­cal and ethical decisions. Each team is allowed 24 hours to prepare a case related to business policy. 
Notre Dame participants in the competition are Tom Anderson of Pelham, New York, a 1977graduate ofLehigh University with a degree in civil engineering; John Cole of Shaftsbury, Vermont, a 1976 graduate of Bentley College with a degree in accounting; and Peter 

Eaton of Duluth, Minnesota, a 1978 graduate of Union College with a de­gree in political science and economics. 
.. 
Tuesday, April 6, 1982 -_page 7




Editorials 
Manystudents ignore social life survey 
As a freshman, one aspect oflife at Notre Dame convinced me 10 forsake the warmth of the Texas sun in favor of the snow and slush of South Bend : the idea that the stu­dent body forms a unique and cohesive family known to all as "the Notre Dame community." 
CarolCamp 
Freshman Outlook 

As I prepared for my first semes­ter, I was told by both students and alums that I was soon to become a member of "the greatest student body in the United States," yet as my first year as a Notre Dame student provide the administartion with the conrete imput which it has previously disregarded. 
An example of the administra­tion's laissez-faire attitude toward verbal imput was apparent at the Hall Presidents' Council meeting which Provost O'Meara addressed. 
Although O'Meara made a sincere attempt to comprehend the student leaders' concerns, his insistance that they choose between vaguely defined priorities resulted in the ad­ministration's misinterpretation of students' needs. 
As one HPC member observed, "When asked to choose between satellite centers and a new student center ten or fifteen years from now, of course you're going to pick 

comes to an end, I find myself questioning the spU"It of that seemingly mythical community. 
Although we as students are mem· 

bers of an academic community, we 
nevertheless have responsibilities 
and obligations which reach beyond 
maintaining our grade point 
averages. 
One of our primary respon­sibilities is to utilize tbe rare oppor· tunity which we have been given by the administration to improve a uni­versal problem: the lack of social space on campus and of Interaction between members of the opposite sex. 
On Friday, March 26, ap­

proximately 1100 questionnaires 
were sent out to randomly selected 
students, faculty, and staff members 
by the Office of Student Activities. 
The purpose of this .questionnaire 
was to gather student imput on the 
Issue ofsocial life at Notre Dame. 
The results of this survey, along with the findings of the campus study group which traveled to several college campuses during spring break and an Independent psychological study which is cur­rently being prepared, will be presented in a report to the Board of Trustees at their annual meeting in May. 
To date, only 385 completed questionnaires have been returned to the Student Activities Office, and these are separated into three categories: hence, only a very small perentage of the 825 forms which were distributed to students have been returned. 
The significance of the question­

naire cannot be overemphasized, for 
it represents a genuine efffort on the 
University's part to consider stu­
dents' feelings, opinions, and ideas. 
Granted, a survey is an indirect 

and somewhat impersonal com· 
municative approach, yet it will 
·-... (.) m 
Q) 
E 
m 

satellite centers." 
While it is unfortunate that the HPC's long-awaited meeting with Provost O'Meara failed to improve communication between the stu· dent leaders and the administration, 825 students now have the oppor­tunity to state their views on the issue ofsocial life at Notre Dame. 
If the rate of response to the sur­vey does not significantly increase, the efforts ofthe campus study group and other individuals concerned with the improvement ofthe quality of life at this University will be in vain. 
Student Activities Director James McDonnell expressed the senti· ments of the campus study group by stating, "If that's the response rate, maybe we're concerned about something that the students aren't concerned about, and through this survey, we'll find out if the views of those involved in student govern· ment, Student Union, and newspaper reflect those of the stu­dent body as a whole." 
As members of the "Notre Dame community," we are challenged from the moment we arrive on campus to strive for the improve­ment offthe world which surrounds us. 
Ironically, it seems as though we would rather spend another boring Saturday night "with the guys" (or girls) rather than examining the issues closely and discovering al· ternative outlets for social interac­tion. 
Until we are willing to take the 
initiative and make our actions 
speak louder than our well­
vocalized complaints, the idea of 
"the Notre Dame community" will 
remain a my thical element of 
"Catholic Disneyland." 
Dear Editor: 
1 just finished reading John Macor's article in the March 3rd issue of The Observer ("The Knowledge of Understanding") and felt compelled to write. AI· though I haven't always agreed 
with John's views, and sometimes thought he did better work with a camera that a typewriter, this is by far the best piece I have read in The Obseroer in the past five years. In it, John writes that "the education with books is only a small part of the college experience ..." -if only more Notre Dame students would realize that! Four years of college go by too quickly to be wasted. I have seen people "come out of the woodwork" after three hard years of studying, to finally enjoy themselves in their senior year. It may be well deserved, but by then it's too late. In everything that was gained from books there was much that lost in learning. 
Experience outside of the class­room has a much greater impact on personal growth thatn anything that can be obtained inside it. Notre Dame has much to offer ad so do its students. finding a way to balance your academic self with your personal self is not an easy thing to do. In trying to juggle my time between activities and CHEG courses, I found that something 
usually had to suffer, and many times it was my grades. But I have never regretted a minute of this "misspent" time. What I learned about myself during that time was more valuable than anything I've ever found in any book. 
Let's face it -grades can only ~tet you so far. You will either pass a course or you will fail one. Ten years from now, no one will remember or care which grades . you got in which courses. What 
will matter is what kind ofa person enabled me to do well and survive 
you have developed into and how in the plant atmosphere. 
you have used the knowledge When you have finished four gained tllrough your academic anc1 years at Notre Dame you leave personal exp-eriences. Tn my first your grades behind -what youperformance review at work, my take with you is what you have 
boss cited as my major strength made of those four years.
not my academic background or Sincerely, 
my technical knowledge, but my 
Mary Beth Sterling 

personality and character which Class of'81 


Serious issues 
1 
1 

Dear Editor,  campus  - what  an  idea! Would  
I wish to congratulate Edward  people  view  the  administration  
Konrady and Randy Fahs for their  negatively? I doubt it. As students  
concerning  apathy.  They  have  we  must act  responsibly and ef­ 
pointed  out  a  serious  problem  fectively.  Overacting  on  self­ 
here  at  Notre  Dame.  I  whole·  centered, minor causes will only  '  
heartedly agree that students must  endanger our integrity as a student  
channel their vast energies into "doing" instead of just complain·  force when acting on . ISSUeS.  the major  ' I  
ing  about  what  must  be  done.  The  students  of  this  campus  
However,  there  is  a  question  definitely need to unite and work  
pertaining to the issues demanding  for  social  progress.  As  a  highly  
our attention.  respected university, we definate·  
I honestly must ask, who cares  Iy have a voice. Our past traditions  
whether beer is in a keg or in a  have given us a podium to stand at;  
bottle? Other more pressing issues  now, we must speak and work to  ·  
concerning us scudems do exist. At  be heard.  We  must  change  our  
this minute, a very real tragedy is  apathetic, selfish attitudes and do  
occuring in El Salvador. There also  something. I only hope and pray  
exist grave injustices only three  that having beer in kegs or abstain­ 
blocks from this campus. If eight thousand students are going to  ing from one brand ofcandy bar is not Notre Dame's sole contribu­ 
unite in action, it should be for a  tions to surrounding injustices.  
worthwhile cause. A mountain of  Robert Bill  
bottles  and  cans  piled  up  on  Moreau Seminary  
Improve carparking  
Dear Editor,  ing to somone else?'~ I ask the new  
On  the  night  of  March  30,  Student Government to look into  
several cars had some of their tires  this problem and discuss possible  
slashed in student parking lot [). 2.  solutions. After all, everyone with a  
Unfortunately,  all  four  of mine  car must pay a twenty-five dollar  
were slashed. Coincidentally, I had  registration fee,  but where does  
my car stereo stolen and other in­ this go? It is probably broken down  
ternal damages to my car occured  where  part  goes  to  leasing  a  ·  
in D-2 nearly one and a half months  parking stall, part goes  to  main·  
ago. I realize that it is a great risk to  tenance (snow removal, etc.), and  
have a car a school, and also that  part goes  to security. Security?!?  
Notre  Dame  Security  is  not  to  Tell  that  to  my  insurance  com­ 
blame for these events. But some­ pany! Again, I am not holding Nr  
thing is wrong if I am  vandalized  Security  responsible,  but  there  
twice in  a  two  month span and  must be ways to improve this situa­ 
have damages of over  S 1 500, of  tion  and  preventing  it  from  
which  mmy  insurance  company  happening again.  
will only cover half. What I would  George D. Karibjanian  
like to know is, "Can anything be  Business Administration  
done to prevent this from happen- 

Editorial Board  Department Managers  
The C?bserver is  an  independent newspaper published by the students of the  Editor-in-Chief..............................Michael Monk  Business Manager .............................Tony Aiello  
Un1vers1ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily  Managing Editor ..........,..... Ryan Ver Berkmoes  Controller.............................................Eric Schulz  
reflect the policies of the ~d~inistration o_f either. ins~itution.  The news is report­ Executive News Editor .........................Kelli Flint  Advertisinp Manager .......................Chrls Owen  
ed as a~curately and as obJectively as poss1ble. Ed1tonals represent the opinion of  .~MC News Edttor.....................Margaret Fosmoe  Production Manager..................Maura Murphy  
a maJonty of the Editorial Board. Co.nmentaries, opinions and letters are the views  Sports Editor...................................Chris Needles  Circulation Manager ..........................Ray Inglin  
of their authors.. Column s~ace is_ available to all members of the community, and  Editorials Editor .............................Paul McGinn  Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley  
the free express1on of varymg opm10ns on campus, throu&h ~ers,  ii eJlcour~ed.  Features Editor ...................................Tari Brown  
P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 {219) 239-5303  Pboto Editor ...................................Rachel Blount  Founded November 3, 1966  


(:'pring is the season for planting; ..:Jwhen seeds are sown and careful­ly tended. It is fitting then, that Our Spring Concert, the last production 
of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's 
Dance Theatre, was presented 
during this season. 
TariBrown 
dance review 
Freshness and enthusiasm were reflected on the stage throughout the performance. However, the growing pains ofa department that has only recently begun to function were evidenced by inconsistencies in the concert. 
The program, divided into three pieces, began with Trois Danseuses, an abstract trio done to the music of Milhaud. The solo, duo and trio seg­ments ofthe piece demonstrated one of the major problems that pervaded the entire program. Maureen Meagher, a dancer ofex­
ceptional talent and training, out­shone Mary Scheiber and Frances Regas. Her technique was cleanly executed and her presence dominated the stage. She has the rare quality ofbeing able to translate inner motivational energy into meaningful movement. Unfor­tunately, Scheiber and Regas lacked Meagher's enthusiastic energy which makes such a dance enjoyable to watch as well as perform. Perhaps the underlying reason for Scheiber's and Regas' problems was that the choreography was beyond their · capabilities. These girls are not dance majors and consequently, their training has not adequately prepared them for such complex movement. Their herculean effort was to be admired. 
Professor Debra Stahl, choreog­rapher, seemed to be more com­fortable with the choreographic style ofthe second piece, The Des­cent Beckons as the Ascent Be­ckoned. Based on the poem, "The Descent" by William Carlos Wil­liams, it traces the moment oflibera­tion from the pain ofa memory. Stahl 
translated the simplicity of the poetic structure into an economy of movement very well; an economy that was neglected in the previous piece. 
The dramatic element was strong­ly portrayed by Colleen Quinn as the "One who remembers." As one who excels in gesture, she concretized the dramatic pulse ofeach move­ment well. However, the piece's reliance on gesture was its greatest weakness in that it bordered on the mimetic which caused the choreograpy to appear acted rather than danced. That inner force which characteristically defines dance as a form ofexpression was never allowed to surface. The gesture hid it to the point ofdisguising any cat­harsis in the piece. 
The sec.ond movement ofThe Descent ..., "Purgatory," best em­bodied the essence of Williams' poem. The trouble with this move­ment, (and it plagued the others as well), was the lack of variation utilized around any given theme. Repeatedly and redundantly, a movement such as that at the win­dow, was danced without any ex­pansion on the thematic idea. Like a "theme and variation" segment ofa symphonic work, dance, too, needs to incorporate variation so as to develop the theme and maintain the audience's attention. 
Stahl and her dancers showed the enthusiasm with which all dance should be approached in the final piece, Prague Dumka. Individual performances made this piece of drama interesting, coherent and at times, very funny. E. M. Durkin as the Old Man, Mary Beth O'Brien as the little boy, Mary E. Kelly as the Chaperone and Kevin Tindell are to be commended for bringing much character and energy to the stage. 
As was the case in Trois Dan­seuses, the stage ultimately belonged to Maureen Meagher. Her performance revealed the depth of her experience, particularly in partnering. Michael Pirkowski ap­peared unsure ofhimself, never real­ly understanding why he was where he was or where he was going, and confused with each of his partners. Given his limited experience, it 

would have perhaps been in the best interests of the entire piece if any partnering had been foresaken. Rather than fear for the safety of Scheiber, Quinn and Meagher, the audience would have been able to enjoy the dancing more. 
Prague Dumka was reminiscent ofan MGM musical such asEaster Parade. After rereading the program notes, it was a bit disconcerting to discover such descriptives as "melancholy," "hazy" and "autumnal." The dance was anything but these. 
The costumes were very nicely done, particularly the period pieces for the Dumka. Professor Ellen Brannick created an ensemble of clothing that held together and added to the beauty ofthe dance. 
The sets throughout were ques­tionable as was the placement of the musicians on stage. In the first piece, the musicians were distracting, especiallyJane Zwerneman on french horn. With the quintet on stage, space was constricted so much that the audience began to wonder when Meagher or Regas were going to arabesque into the platform. 
Professor Thomas Leffs design for the second piece was superb in con­ception, but when translated onto the O'Laughlin stage it lost all ofits depth. The musicians would not have been such a distraction if they 
had had their music memorized; page turns broke many a pregnant silence. The last piece, though weighted by an overly complex set, incorporated the musicians right in­to the drama. 
Although this concert had its problems, it must be emphasized that the choreography was develop­mental in style. Stahl needs to ex­periment more with manipulating bodies on the stage and motivating their entrances and exits. The program showed much room for growth in that it needed to move beyond where it was. All of the ar­tists in this production contributed to the planting ofsome very choice seeds. Time and care now are needed to allow them to grow and flourish. 
Duo contrasts successfully 
C' tormy Weather might have Ubeen an appropriate .addition to the musical program presented by Eugenia and Pinchas Zukerman Tuesday night in the Elkhart Central 
High School auditorium. Asudden rainstorm caused the Zukermans and their pianist, Mark Neikrug, some problems in getting to the auditorium for their performance. 
But from the moment the trio stepped on the stage, their problems 
Brace Oakley 
mosic review 
ended: 
Pinchas Zuckerman demonstrated the remarkable clarity and richness of tone that has earned him a reputation as one of the world's top violinists. Accom­panied by Neikrug, Zukerman ;>layed Sonata No. 3 in D Minor, Op. 108 by Brahms and Four Romantic Pieces, Op. 75 by Dvorak, with a controlled and graceful style. Zuker­man is not an emotionally demonstrative player, but an oc­casional raised eyebrow or a cert~in set ofthe jaw indicated the intensity with which he plays, and the love he has for his music. 
In stark contrast to Zukerman's controlled style is the expressive. way in which his wife, Eugenia, piays the flute. Eugenia, counted among the world's top flautists, played 20th century selections by Andre]olivet and Libby Larsen. In introducing the 


swaying style was well suited to the 
elemental emotionalism ofthe 
pieces. 
NeiKrug's accompaniment on 
piano was competent and un­
obtrusive. He played in perfect 
balance at all times, never dominat­
ing, but never fading out offocus. He 
and Pincha..~ Zukerman are com­
fortable performing together, 
having recorded an album in 1981 
for CBS Masterworks. The two 
shared a· light moment or two as 
Zukerman turned pages for Neikrug 
during Eugenia's two selections, 
which combined with her 
demonstrative play to create an 
enjoyable atmosphere for the eve­
ning. 
The artists also performed two pieces as a trio, combining their talents in a delicate balance ofcon­trast and harmony. 
The trio were presented with keys to the City ofElkhart by the mayor in a warm ceremony at intermission. The concert was the last in the Elkhart Concert Club's 1981-82 series. The club's 1982-83 schedule, which commences in October, will include performances by Andre 
Watts, with Charles Trager; Vincent 
Price; Ballet Folklorica Mexicana, 
withJose Greco; and the Gerry Mu1­
ligan]azz Quartet. 
Russian ballpoints , nuclear bombs 
""\TOU can go into a strange restaurant and make a good guess about 
.1 how the food is going to taste long before they've actually served you any ofit. There are telltale signs that give you advance warning. When the rolls or the bread come, you know for sure how the whole meal is going to be. 
This idea can be extended to everything and everybody. You can 
tell a lot about the whole from a very small part. You can tell a lot 
about how a person does everything from watching him or her do 
just one thing. We are all victims ofourown character and we find it 
impossible to do something that isn't charact~!:_i~!i~ o.f!Js,_ 

This idea applies to whole countries just as cenanly as it applies to 
individuals. We keep doing things like Americans, the Germans keep 
doing things like Germans, the French like the French. 
President Reagan said the other night that the Soviet Union has "a 
definite margin ofsuperiority" oyer the United States in nuclear 
arms. Using my theory about being able to tell a lot from a sample, 1 
doubt it. I've spent a good deal oftime in Russia and hold some 
opinions about the people and the nation that no one can talk me out 
of. 
One ofmy firmly held beliefs is that the Russians are not naturally 
mechanical people. They may acquire the ability and they may be 
better at it than they used to be, but working with machinery does 
not come naturally to the average Russian. They have a great 
heritage in music and literature and the arts in general, but they 
build terrible automobiles and don't know how to ftx them when 
they break down. 
One of the most incredible travel experiences I've ever had was a 
week in a Russian hotel in Moscow. The second time I stayed there 
they had installed telephones in every room, but the telephones 
were not connected through any hotel switchboard. There was no 
w.ay for anyone to call the hotel and be connected with me by phone 
in my room. 
Does this sound like a country that is apt to be ahead of us in 
nuctear weapons.? 
The Russians, in their desperate attempt to get hard Western cur­rency away from tourists, opened what they call"Beriozkas" or "Dollar Stores." They put their best merchandise in these small shops located in their Q.nest hotels and offer it for sale in exchange for dollars or other foreign currency, not ruples. Russian citizens can't buy there. 
I've bought nail clippers, razors, razor blades and ball-point pens in those Dollar Stores and I've carefully inspected such itemsas cameras, camera lenses, binoculars, cigarette lighters, scissors and watches there. The best Russian goods are poor by our standards. The workmanship is inferior and the design is either imitative or clumsy. 
This isn't being written by some blindly anti-Russian nut. I don't hate the Russians. I hate their oppressive government. As a matter of fact, I kind oflike the Russians. They're often wonderfully free­spirited and fun to be with, but, for whatever facet oftheir national character it is, they do a lot ofthings badly. From what I've seen of their binoculars and their ball-point pens, I'd guess nuclear weapons would be one ofthe things they make poorly. There are some things Americans don't do well, either, but these are different things. 
Obviously, the Russians have learned how to do some things. Their space program is not as sophisticated as ours but it works. I have no doubt that thelr nuclear bombs go offwith a big bang, and I'm also sure they've built rockets that will take their missiles to New York. What I can't believe, from what I know firsthand about the Rus­sians, is that they have more and better nuclear weapons than we do. 
I can't stop myselffrom thinking that President Reagan is just trying to scare us into approving his huge defense budget. Ifthe Rus­sians could build great nudear bombs, their hotels wouldn't be as poorly constructed as they are. 
Copyright 1982 The 'Chicago Tribune 

smerd by Ted Ozark 
1982 9

SportS =1~B~~~.7~:~(·~(~~~~~.~;.,~~.e~r::S~nd;;Th~t;'A~s:s~o~c~~·a;,tl~'d~P~r:;es~sT==;:=:::=:=:==::=:=:=:=:=::==;s~:1~5~A;ga;;;n~o~ra:ng;e:;.n;d:,he~A~n:.T;Efl:~:.e~.~~~~~y~~;,y:,~A:=:p~r:t:'l:6=:'::=:
===p=a:g:e= 

~!:fu]l~i®SOOKSTORE/If.J CantBeatUs,YouSu~t~pan6 Umpires app~ov~.. 
An Tostal Ping Pong Tournament registration will be hdd today from 7 to 9 p.m. on the second floor of LaFortune. Registration fee is 11. Dorm stars are invited to test their skills in the !'irst campus-wide table tennis tournament in yea:rs. -The Observer 
An Tostal Frisbee GOlfis coming. If you can throw a frishee, you can play. The six-hole Frisbee Open will be played saturday, April 24. Registration is set for April 13 from 6 to 7:30p.m. on the third tloor of LaFortune. -The ObsenJer 
Four home runs, including a grand slam by Eddie Murray, powered the Baltimore Orioles to a 13·5 victory over the Kansas City Royals in the American League opener yesterday. Sam· my Stewart, the winner in relief, choked off a bases-loaded threat in the fifth inning. He preserved the triumph after the Royals had hattled back from a 7·1 deficit and pulled to within 7·5 on George Brett's solo homer in the seventh. But a three-run homer by Orioles newcomer Dan Ford capped a six-run rally in the bottom of the seventh. The game, played in 46-degree weather, drew a record Bal­timore regular-season crowd of 52,034, which included baseball Commissioner Bowie Kuhn, but did not include President Reagan, who declined an invitation for security reasons. -Associated Press 
Today•• <iamH Stepan 1 
4:00 -F1ve Well-Hung Jurors v Phyll•s ahd the 
PipS 4·45 -Goose v W1ndex • The Glass Cleaners 
5:30 -Premature Shooters v L1zz•e Borden and the Hatchet Men 
6:15 -H.J Connect1on v. Pen1saurus and the Four Sk1ns 
Stepan 2 4:00-Bnck Throwers v. The Nads 4:45-R•ver C1ty Res1due Returns v. Strok1ng lnsh 
ComeAga1n 5:30-Endangered Feces v Natalie Wood and the 
Necrophehacs  
6:15  - Two  Pats  and  Three  P1nches  v  
ANONYMOUS  
Stepan3  

4:00 -Dr Bob and the A/1-Siar Goals v The Generic Umt 
4:45 -Fr Mano Ped• and H1s Barbershop Ouanet v We re St1ll Not Demers 
5:30-Pack1n It v The Rack Pack 
6:15-The Ox and the Hot-Shooting Z·men II v 
F1ve Guys Named Moe Stepan 4 
4:00 -Jerry s K1ds v Two Dogs and a Coke lor a Buck 
4:45 -Clyde the Ghde andt.he Homble Honk1es v. D1p and the Dockless Wonders 5:30-The Blood-Suck1ng Monk1es v Jerry Math· ers and the Beaver Cleavers 6:15-The Intestinal Blasts v S1m11ac and the Four DeadBab1es Stepan 5 4:00-The Boxer Rebellion Makes a v. Coach 
Gypo·s Pervone Heads 4·45-F1ve Slow White Guards v Beer Bongs 5:30-P1ssuar and His Golden Wave v Bill Pucell 
and the Voyaqeurs 
4:00 -Pistols of Love v. Hawk1ns and the Bad-
Asses 4:45-wareShonButStowv JT.J 
5:30 -M1tch s and R1ch s S.O B s v Their Meat 6:15-Peanut ButterLegsv TheNewFederal•sm Stepan 1 No Games Scheduled 
Stepan 8 No Games Scheduled 
Bookstore II 
4:00 -F1ve Men, E1ght Hands v Rhythm and Blues 
4:45 -Albemonsters v Sp1derman and the Four Avengers 
5:30 -SumsV1nv HowtOHOWilh FIVe Easy Guys 6:15-Jack Dan1els and Your Motherv The Aun­teaters 
Bookatorto10 4:00-Barracudas v The Gooks Plus One 4 ·45-Charry P•ckers v V1nuals 5:30-Maggots Magotts v Two Guys Who L1ke to 
Play With Three GirlS 
6:15 -Wood D1stnbutors, Inc v The Laundry Bags 
Lyon•11 4:00-Bishop Nestle and the Chocolate Cadavers 
v. Murray State 4:45-Natalie Wood AquatiC Club v You reIn 5:30-The H1cks and Double Trouble v. James 
Brady and the Wash1ngton Bullets 
6:15 B F and the Rearenders v. 
B.L.O.W J 0 B S Lyon•12 4:00-Grassey s Boners v Bo•er Shons Br~el Ap· 
pearance 4 ·45 -We Bad v The All-Star Dogs 5:30-Tequ•la Sunnse v Yaks 1n Heat 
6:15 -Rugballers v OUinlin Da11ey and Four Cocky Guys 
.£lOUr year COfltract 
Major league umpires agreed to a new four-year contract yesterday which will raise their salaries to a top of 175,000. The agreement was reached in a 12-hour bargaining ses· sion which began Sunday night and ended early yesterday morning, and averted the second strike in three seasons by the officials. "In the first • year, salaries will increase an average of 40 percent and over the four years of the contract, the in· creases average 60 percent," said Richie Philips, the umps' legal repre· sentative. "In some categories, the increase is more than 100 percent over the term ofthe contract." Phil· lips cited the example of an umpire who made the first-year minimum of 
Sl8,000 in 1981. His salary goes to 126,000 this year and increases to 128,000, 130,000 and $37,000 over the life of the contract. Senior umpires wiU enjoy immediate pay 
hikes of S20,000 as a result of the agreement. -Associated Press 
The Observer wtll accept classtfieds Mon· 
• 

day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. However. classifteds to appear in the next tssue must be recetved by 3 p.m. the bustness day pnor to tnsertton All class1fteds must be prepatd. 
e1ther tn person or through the mat I.
Classifieds 
LOST: A GOLD CHAIN AND CRUCIFIX TO ALL YOU Enc,
DESPARATEL Y NEED RIDE TO DC LYONS HALL FOODSALES OFFERS 
OFFICE & Herzhghen Gebunstag Have a mce
AT THE ROCKNE SWIM OR VA FOR EASTER tAM WILLING TO THE BEST IN FRESH, THICK CRUST CAULIFLOWER.CARROTS
NOTICES 

"LOST ON TUESDAY MARCH 23, RENT A CARll PLEASE CALL JOHN. PIZZA DELIVERED ANYWHERE OON TOMATOES ALTHOUGH OUR b1nhday L•ebe Gemuse 8331 SOUTH QUAD FOR THE NOMINAL
1982 IF "FOUND PLEASE RETURN LEAVES HAVE NOW FALLEN 21 TO 828 GRACE HALL OR CALL JOHN CHARGE OF ON SOUTH QUAD FOR TIMES,IT WAS THOROUGHLY My bra1n huns from too many dnnks My AT 672t· NO QUESTIONS WILL BE THE NOMINAL DELIVERY CHARGE ENJOYABLE TO INCLUDE YOU IN OUR nose IS runn1ng trom that ra1ny walk My
$50,000·$80,000 PER YEAR Are you HELP I I need 2 ndes to New Jersey tor 
ASKED HAS MUCH SENTIMMENTAL CELEBRATION THANKS FOR MAKING conSCif\nCe feels embarassed If I talk too
bored w1th your JOb. tired ot wort<~ng tor Easter Can leave Wed noon Please call OF THURSDAY NIGHTS FROM 9:30 TO 
VALUE. much about things that pressure you But
the other man NatJonal company based Kate2897 11 AND ORDER YOURS. ALSO: OUR BIRTHDAYS MEMORABLE HOW the worst pa1n IS that my face IS sore from
CAN YOU FORGET A BIRTHDAY LOST-Pair ot w~re·nmmed glasses •n VEGETABLE PARTY? THANKS STEVE sm1hng too much! 
1n Lexington, KKentucky looktng for live EVERY WEDNESDAY NIGHT IS 
di&tnbutors 1n seven-county aarea Calli· XY GUEST CELEBRITY NIGHT WITH brown case-Somewhere between the law 12 LOG 168.1 FOR TYPING. tel 288· WEU· KNOWN CAMPUS..FIGURES &GREG
800·9594 

school and /he parking lot rusl soulh of the 5855 WORKING THE COUNTER I Bogus. I won 1apotog1ze tor th1s personal be1ng
eng1neenng bu1ld1ng It hnd,call M1ke at M P (N B .M R J·· Je m excuse II nest needed to St Cloud. M•nn tor anywhere 287-7781 Alders needed to But-MIKE GURDAK FOR U.M.O.C ...... HE pcis un perdant mats tu latsserats le tom· late s1nce 11 s your fault for nott~lhng any of us about your b1nhday Instead Ill Just 
ATTENTION• ATTENTION' 2 Alders 

thereabouts) lor Easter brenk Call 7951 talo.Syr,Oswego,NY area W•ll leave REALLYWANTSITIIII ber en tout cas or6713 LOST while go~ng to St Ed s trom the Thurs at noon Call Jack at 3662·3661°A!&o embarrass you 1n pnnt So you have to hbrary, a black cross pen w1th the mtflals AND THE LORD SAID UNTO THEM. Dear Sue. l hanks so much lor g01ng to dnnk to have a good lime, huh? Do you I need nde to Mllwaukee/Madtson area
K J C tt found please call Kev1n at 8858 "LET YOUR UGLINESS SHINE FORTH the trouble ol gett1ng me a room LeMans have any •dea about some ot the th1ngsHAIRCUTS• ONLY $4 FOR GUYS AND lor break X 8837 should be great next year I hope you, you sa1d Saturday mght (or, actually.
$6 FOR GIRLS·· LOT OF EXPERIENCE AMONG MEN UGLY MAN IS COMING IN STYLING. ROTC AND PERSONALLY 
Barb. Pans. Grace and Jean are ready to Sunday morn1ng)? It I told you. you d 
Need nders to and trom NYC Area Thanks aga1n probably turn red Anyway. HAPPY
DESIGNED CUTS FOR YOUR FACE SENIOR FELLOW NOMINATIONS· Ap· go crazy next year Love,
Leav1ng Thurs 8 returntng Wednesday Beth BIRTHDAY (a httlelate) 
AND HAIR CALL MICHOLE AT 7951 phcat1ons available 1n Student Ac•v•tiOs
evemng I he t 4 Share usual Call Michael 
FOR RENT 
Olf1ce thru Apnl 12
239-5713 CONGRATULATIONS LYNETTE! RAHI p s I hope the Yankees l1msh below the
LADIES: Mad Dogs escon >erVICe now operating 1n the South Bend area Sate. ND/SMC SENIOR GIRLS NIGHT OUT 
RAHI RAH! We love ya ··The Gang & As· Blue Jays th1s year GOING EAST? Need nde for 2 to EXIT 7 
effect•ve. reasonably pnced, very Tuesday Apnl 20 With FAST FREDDY & SOCI8t8S 
Student hous~ng··clean, sale $100/mo Oh1o P•ke. can leave WED call Steve WOLFGANG. HERZLICHEN 21
European se,..,.ces ollered Mad Dog THE PLAYBOYS atlha MusiC Bo<. 120291·1405 1816 W Mishawaka Avenue. Refreshments Bruce Sprmgsteen says Lynn Thomas GEBURTSTAGI TRINKE EIN BIERI·
h1msett •• o"en descnbed as ·me con nos­suer or the sweete~t lrwts of h1s age. and and f~rst keg tree No men admitted unttl was born to Cheerlead 
We knew you d HERR KLOSE· 4 Bdrm N Shore $270 mo total Call Pany $$$GEO DEPT needs Ients tor a 
a man at g1ant strengths and des~res 11 :00 p.m. Advance tickets $8.00, on sale make 11 WAY TO GO, THOMAS' ··As· Attent•on 308.310 & 313 Alumn•
3193228735 Call refunded weekend l•eld tnp. Apnl16.17,18 II you 
sorted Buckeyes can rent us a tent call x6886 
Call3335to ach1eve personal serv1ces ot now at R1ver City Records, 501170 US 31 GOTCHA• 
North.
vartous sorts • APT FOR RENT 288095& The C•nc1nnat1 Reds are the Greatestl ERIC,(earwax), Happy 21! 1 hope you 

Death Penalty Panel DISCUSSIOn 8PM see tha hams 1n LIVERSWURST on April (boy 1s th1s personal1n trouble 11 they lostl) BE YOUR OWN BOSS COMFORT ABLE 
have about 21 more (Ha·Ha) Tartace 

tontght Architecture Aud1tonum 6 and 7 1n the Little Theatre at SMC 
5 BEDROOM. COMPLETELY FUR· 
FOR SALE 
HAPPY LEGAL DAYS TO THE PRIDE DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE TO HAPPY BIRTHDAY LINDA C. "Through
NISHED HOUSE FOR 5 OR 6 CLOSE 
Sally Bowles ·• You shouldn t have the TO CAMPUS PHONE 288·3942 OF VIA CATHERINA. LOVE 
AND/OR FROM PORTLAND.ORE the" (Kenny!) months, the parties, the baby And don t let that tallow ChH con­
WHITELAKE AREA ABLE TO LEAVE ANYTIME AF· tests, the phone calls, the infamous Rm v•nce you otherw1se Bus1ness at the K1t 
SUMMER APT ROOM Low rate at N D USED BOOK SHOP HOURS WED . 
Kat Club IS way off s•nce you le" We Apts 234·9670 late evemngs SAT SUN 9·7 CASPERSON 1303
TEA GRADUATION. WOULD LIKE TO 314, and the tears, you haw bHn a 
ERCK. I don t do homework that o"en, but RETURN WKEND OF JUNE 11TH IF you sure know when I dol Happy 21st.
dynamite roommate! (as gOod as TNT!) need you back on stage ·· Max 
BUCHANAN AD . NILES. YOU'RE GOING THAT WAY & HAVE You re too meal to call Love. Your SIS
Hope your Birthday Is SPECTACULAR! EXTRA ROOM. PLEASE CALL ME·· Too bad you won't be spending it here un· What good IS Silting alone 1n your room? 
Special Dhoc:ounta tor Notre Dame der the Dome I Hal Low, Pat Life 1sn t that long a stay Come to the
WILL SHARE USUAL KEVIN-3369 To Bobby C Darling, you II always be the 
faculty on computers and penpheral Cabaret. old chum Ute 1s a Cabaret!! 
only one for

WANTED 
products. pnnters. modems. etc Hewlett· TICkets on sale startong Apnl 5, lor the N 
Sell your texts et PANDORA'S 1·4 pm, THE FILM CLUB PRESENTS: Heaven made you Specially Could 11 be
Packard. Zemth FOURWAY COM· CHARLY D Student Players performance ot the
Mon ·Thurs Regular store hours· 11·6 t m tall1ng '" love With you, baby? Sun·
PUTER PRODUCTS, INC., 52758 US 31 Broadway hot CABARET
weekdays. tQ-5 weekends 5&.. Off used APRIL?, 7,9& 11 EG. AUD $1 shtne
North (Aero.. from North VIllage Malt) poetry and SOCIOlogy lh15 week only. 937 TYPING 28 years as a secretary·· 
2n-mo.

excellent typist. ret~red $1 00/page call Chit Bradshaw .. Off-Broadway or on, I
South Bend Ave . 233·2342 A MANDATORY MI!ETING will be held 
Phyllis 259·2501 DeatS& D. th1nk you are SPECIAL Do you stoll 
on TUESDAY, APRIL 8th lOr thoM ln­Whet is today? 10 Add 2, It equals 1. behave 1n MIRACLES? Maybe a little tess t....llllld In pertlc:fpatlng on neiCI year'•

Need nde to SOUTH FLORIDA tor Easter Breaks. beaches, rainy Saturday nights. writing and a lot more talking w1ll help 
CLASS ADVISORY COUNCILS on the Break Call Todd 1763 55 5 
We ate the "KIDS I" P S Venus can hardly ~~~<~It ttl 11M 1c11 2nd floor of LaFortune. The time• are
TICKETS 
I Love You! "'''"· YoNr lall~ or mine! ··SIJUy
LOST/FOUND 

u follow•: Clauol'l3 -5:30 HELPttt t DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE Tha Ong~nal S & D 
'84·8:30 TO OKLAHOMA CITY FOR EASTERI!I 
Come to the Cabaret! II What good is sit· Need e•tra tiCkets for graduation Call 
'81·1:00

tmg alone in your room whfln you could
MY OTHER RIDE GOT CANCELLED 
LOST: A strand of PEARLS Much sen­Mark at 3008
AND. ALL MY CHOCOLATE BUNNIES "...11 this IS what you want, you·w got rt... be supporting the student players? 
timental value Please call Karen at 3773 

WILL MELT OR GET STALE IF I DON T But if you get some time and change your Come to the Cabaret! 
On Apnt 13th MAGGIE BASTEDO Will GET TO THEMIH CALL RENEE AT mind... The Chel WANTED grad tickets Please call 277· 
Choreography .... Colleen Quinn
REWARD: LOST GOLD NECKLACE 0758 a"er 5.00 p m celebrate her 17th B1nhday We w1sh we
Vocals .... Anita Ramker 
790511111111 .................... IUDE NI!IDID TO CHICAGO (N.W. Conducted by.... Bob 0 Donnell POOL SENTIMENTAL VALUE. Please !x!! Parents have threatened severance 
WITH CROSS AT CAMPUS VIEW could be w1th you to celebrate your day 
Have a fantastiC t1meltl Love, B1ll and L1sa WANTED RIDERS TON CALIFORNIA lullurbe?'P) For Wednesday, Apnt 7 a/· Produced by.... Ed McNally
call283-6954 from the lam1ly blood hne •f GRAD TIX
leav•ng aher l1nats 234-9670 late ter 12 noon Will Share Usual Call DAVE at Drrected by a guy named Jeff TO ALL YOU VEGETABLES THANKS
don t matenllze soon I! Please help! W•ll 
(and a great guy, too.) 
evenmgs X1418
01d someone lose a blue coat 1n Corby s? pay $$$!1Call Donna x7924 a"er 1Qpm FOR UPLIFTING YOUR ROOTS A
March t 5·18 Wash•ngton Hall 
SHAKING YOUR LEAVES. Y'AU HELP! I DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE NANCY GAIL A PROMISE IS At found one that says "IMMACULATE 
WERE A GREAT CROP OF TO ATLANTA FOR EASTERIII CAN PROMISLSO HERE GOES. YOUR
CONCEPTION CHEERLEADERS Call NEED TIX FOR GRADUATION CALL 
VEGETABLES. YOU REALLY MADE LEAVE· ANYTIME NEXT WEEK WILL WORSHIP! CONGRATULATIONS, THE GARDEN ROCK. REMEMBER, 
MIChael at 28g·7414 and tell me what MARTY 277·1036 
night you think you lost your coat Dear Lance, 

SHARE DRIVING AND EXPENSES BE HOWEVER LATE, ON YOUR ACCEP­THE LEAVES ARE ALWAYS A GOOD EGG AND CALL 3351 TANCE INTO TOOTH SCHOOL. BEST 
So G Day Welcome to Camelot Our Lost-contacts 1n case Mar 25 II found 
GREENER ON THE STANFORD SIDE. 4 WISHES ALWAYS; I'M SO PROUD OF 
top1c tor today 1s b1rthdys so have a cold please c•ll 3522' one. eh? G Day 
N-S AND 2 E·W STANFORD PHILLY· NEED RIDE HOME FOR EAS.. YOU--BUT I THINK YOU ALREADY
PERSONALS 
An and Gwen GREEN NOTEBOOK (pocket type) DOUG, DRINK THAT BEERtlllll SHEILS
TER. WILL SHARE AS USUAL CALL KNOW THAT. COME CHECK OUT "THE 
RONAT6261 MAGIC RATS" IN ACTION. MAYBE I'LL
LOST on tues or wed lmponant matenal &MART
SEE YOU BEFORE GRADUATION
•• enclosed Contact Dan Upton, 207 St Enc.
TYPING EX·LEGAL SECRETARY 272-Cochabumba So you re 23 today How HAPPY EASTER! STAY SWEET!!Ed s. <8822 5337 old •s the charango? S•gned Don t 11sten HOPEFULLY, A FRIEND TOMOR· Thanks lor 21 great years Dad WHEN MY DATE WORE UP· 
HOLSTERY,I THOUGHT SHE WAS DIF· 

tome,l mJUSt a ROWS LESSON NEGATIVITY
Lost. Blue Chaucer Canterbury Tales FERENT WHEN t HAD TO TAKE HER
Enc. Happy 21st! Have a good hie Love.
Wanted A roommate tor the summer
Text 1n South D1n1ng Hall on March 25 FROM THE GRIPS OF THE POLICE. I
Mona L1sa (alias MOM) and/Or tall semesters to share 1 bedroom JVC RECRUITING APR 151 STOP IN RIDER WANTED (1) TO INDY · leave
Tales are wntten 1n Middle English Great KNEW I HAD A NOVEL TO WRITE 
Campus V•ew Apt Call Greg at 233·4381 VSO BEFORE BREAK TO GET Thur at 4 00 PM. return Mon at 8 30 PM
Sentimental Value If found. caiiJ•m 3684 STILL WANT A COPY KATHERINE? 
To all members of The House Ot ILL· OR EVENING APPTM DETAILS SCHEDULE AFTERNOON Call Jack 277·1185 
REPUTE room 425 W1ld t1me Kathenne Why d1dn t you hke the 9th lloor? M1n & TO ALL THE FANTASTIC GIRLS FROM 
NEED RIDE TO PITT~BURGH CAN To a shy Islander ian .
FOUND Cross penc11 lues 3·30 1n E G Troy Why did you sleep under the table? 3RD S REGINA & THE GUY FROM
WILL Mtke Bossy mterestedAud call M•ke 3242 Kate & M1ke Thought you were sly haVIng GRACE WHO MADE MY B-DAY GREAT 
LEAVE ANYTIME SHARE MIKE 13URDAK FOR U.M.O.C ..... HE tS Just call 
8905 and ask lor Scott How could I turn COSTS CALL TOM 610, REALLY WANTS /TII/I THANK YOUIII IT COULD NOT HAVE
the whole bed to yourself? Plenty ot brew LOST BASKETBALL. MacGregor X· & v•no Are you hun1ng as badly as we 
down another Islander tan? 
BEEN ANY BETTER LOVE YA. MARY 

Need nde to LousVIIIe Carl,teave Wed al·
6000. 1n VICimty ol Stepan center Bnan are? 
ter noon Call AI at 1782 \ Enc. JAM My mouth Still huns .how about
x6261 ATTN: ALL YOU VEGETABLES THERE 
1 ant•c•pate you w1ll have a telicltous yours??? Please say hello to the w1te and Enc. 
WAS A FEMALE LIL' GREEN SPROUT 

solemmzauon ot the 1 05 score com· holy one tor me!!! (How s that?) 
LOST A PAIR OF GLASSES BETWEEN HELP, I CAN't SWIM, j I NEEO A NAMED KIM PARTYING IN THE GAR·
You have had a successful 21 years 
PANGBORN AND THE STADIUM RIDE TO FT. WAYNE ON~RIL 16 OR M•ke Sakuta ATTENTION, E1teen Clancy IS 21 today Congrats to you and your parents DEN. I WOULD GLADLY GIVE MY FRIDAY NIGHT APRIL 2 NEED THESE L1V1ng proot that the rare Long Island Red GREEN TIGHTS FOR HER PHONE NO. 
memorat1on ol partru1t10n 
17 TO SPEND EASTER WITH CAST· Peggy Yates TO SEEI/1 PLEASE CALL 284·4519 AWAY FAMILY. IF YOU CAN OFFER Happy B1nhday Enc! Another one bites Fox IS not ext1nct XOX, The Pittsburgh PLEASE HELPI THANKS, FROM THE 
REWARD ttl AID, CALL PEG AT 1274. the dust Ron Morocco P1g REAL LIL' GREEN SPROUT PAT 8762 
J .. 

Sports Special -Majo_r League Previews Tuesday, April 6, 1982 -page 10 
A'S couldrepeat
Yanks in a tight one 
The AL East race will last until the t1nal weekend in August, as six teams have, legitimate shots at the title, with three very 
Edlonrady 

serious contenders. Detroit, Milwaukee and 
New York are contenders in any division, with Sports Writer 
Cleveland, Baltimore and Boston only a step 
A.L. East 

below. So, with a spirit of toreboding and a feeling 
candidate forrookie-of-the-year honors. Bake
of insanity, here are my picks: McBride will help a sick offense, the only New York (58-50) -The evolution from thing that keeps the Indians down. However, power to speed has been completed in New Gabe Paul probably has a deal up his sleeve to York. The Bronx Bombers still can pop the take care ofthat weakness, so don't count the ball with Winfield, Nettles and Bob Watson. Indians out roo quickly. Newly-aquired Ken Grill"ey will replace Baltimore (59-46) -Earl Weaver is Reggie in right, providing better defense, hoping that in his last season the Baltimore much more speed and more surprises with his question marks all turn up positive. If so, the bat than his mouth. Dave Collins will platoon Orioles could be a force ro reckon with. The with Watson at tlrst, giving rhe Yankees a team s backbone. pitching, is falling apart. The choice.between speed aml power. With Butch Cy Young trio of Palmer, ~tone and flanagan Hobson, no one will realize that Aurelio all suffered arm injuries laM year. The left side Rodriquez is gone. of the infield ·is gone. w1th light-hitting Cal Detroit (60-49) -With a good season Ripken tak;ng over at third for DeCinces, and from their potential superstar Kirk Gibson. Lenn Sakata hauling rookie Bob Bonner tor rhe Tigers could give the Yankees a run for the \1ark Belanger's shortstop spot. Dan Ford (of) tttle. The Tigers are strong up the middle with will help a powerful offense with Murray and ; .ance Parrish (c), Alan Trammell ( ss ), Lou Singleton. 
• Whitaker ( 2b), and Gibson ( cf). Newcomers Boston (59-49) -The Red Sox have one 
Chet Lemon and Larry Herndon complete a of the best hitting infields with batting champ solid outfield. ln his option year, Lemon may Carney Lansford ( 3b), Glenn Hoffman (ss), have the kind ofseason White Sox fans always jerry Remy ( 2b) and Dave Stapel ton ( lb). The expected. The pitching is unknown but, with catching is adequate with Rich Gedman and a little defense, will surprise a lot of people. Gary Allenson, but the loss of Tanana and The Tigers ace in the hole is their fans, who Campbell will hurt the pitching staff. Torrez, have been waiting for a contending Tiger Eckersley and Bob Ojeda are left, with rookie team since 1972. Luis Aponte scheduled for the bullpen. Unless Milwaukee (62-47) -Showing a tremen­the Red Sox hitting can make up for their 
dous amount of faith in their ballclub, the pitching and defense, Ralph Houk will have a Brewers made no changes during the off­long season. season. The lineup is solid, but how long can Toronto (37-69) -The only thing that 
Fingers come out of the bullpen to save the keeps the Blue Jays from tlnishing eighth is an­
floundering starters? A baseball strike that other team in the division. Toronto did have allowed Fingers arm to rest coupled with the good sense to hold onto its only true star, apathy by the Yankees helped the Brewers to pitcher Dave Steib. Pitching is adequate, and the second-halfchampionship. This year they the rest of the team is worse. Wayne 
won't have such luck. Nordhagen (of) will booster a sagging offense Cleveland (52-51) -The Indians have whose top hitter was second baseman beefed up a strong pitching staff adding Larry Damaso Garcia with a .252 average. However, 
Sorenson, Silvio Martinez, Rick Sutcliffe and the Blue Jays have the most extensive minor Ed Whitson to Len Barker, Bert Blylevan,John league system, and there is talk of restructur· Denny and Rick Waits. Jack Perconte (2b) is a ing the league ... 
New look division 

Same trio on top 
The Los Angeles Dodgers won their first World Championship in I6years in '81. Never mind that they got a big assist from the players' strike. By the end of the season, they were the best team in the division, as well as in the majors. And there's no reason to think that they won't hold on to that distinction. 
The Dodgers and Houston are the only two defensively. The pitching staff is solid all teams in the West that have remained relative­around, even if Don Sutton doesn't recoverly unchanged over the winter. Two teams ­from a shattered kneecap. Niekro, Knepper,San Diego and Atlanta -have new managers, Ruhle and Ryan are proven starters. Sambito while the other two clubs -San Francisco and Smith can extinguish many late-inningand Cincinnati -have made key personnel rallies. The Astro-Dodger race should be achanges. 

dogfight.
Experience and continuity are almost as im­
Cincinnati (66-42) -Oespite what the 
portant to a baseball team as pitching. So I'm Cincinnati fans say, the Reds werenot the best predicting a close race between the two team in baseball last year. And they are not anyteams that are rich in all three areas -· the better this year. Last season's outfield is goneDodgers and the Astros. 
entirely. Griffey, Collins and Foster are all in Los Angeles (63-47) -That famous in-New York now -the first two with the 
. field of Cey, Russell, Lopes and Garvey -Yankees and the third with the Mets. The addi· which played together for a record nine tion ofCesar ~edeno will help, but young, un­seasons -was broken up when t,he Dodgers proven players will be relied upon heavily. unloaded the 35·year-old Lopes to Oakland. Johnny Bench finally has escaped from behind But rookie Steve Sax, who hit .340 in the the plate, taking over for a departed Ray Texas League last season before being called Knight at third. The pitchingstaff, with Seaver, up for the stretch drive, will someday be bet· Pastore, Soto and Berenyi, is a plus. ter than Lopes ever was. Fernando is back in San Francisco (56-55) -G.M. Tom Haller the States, even though he says he isn't happy traded away all four starting pitchers. The loss with his contract. He is definitely not worth a of Vida Blue is most notable. Leonard, Davis million a year, as he (or his agent) was asking. and Clark are a solid outfield. Inexperience Fernando probably will struggle through this among pitchers will be the downfall. 
season, now that the hitters have had a chance Atlanta (50-56) -New Managerjoe Torre to think about his screwball. But the Dodgers may have a totJgher time here than he did in are still rich with pitching, and have a solid New York. Four strong hitters (Washington, offensive attack The acquisition ofJorge Orta Horner, Murphy and Chambliss) cannot make will only fortify an already-strong outfield. up for a no-name pitching staff. 
Houston (61-49) -Once again the Astros San Diego (41-69) -Dick Williams is the are without a right-handed power hitter. But Padres' sixth manager in as many years and once again they may not need one. The Astros their first non·rookie one since 1977. In the are a perfect example of a team built for its words of Williams, "It may take us a couple of ballpark. They utilize their speed and pitch­years to become competitive." W[illiams did it ing, both of which they are rich in. The ac­..in Boston, Oakland and Montreal, so look out. quisitions of Ray Knight Garner at second (he came 
over from Pitts· burgh late last season) give the Astros an ex­cellent infield both 
l_ 

~~~~~============================T=u=e=sd=a=y,=A=p=n=·I=6,=1=9=8=2===pa=g=e==ll 
Molarity 

I.DO/(, Ai l-1&. :X~ A ~E'A17VE Tirll't.E M+)l~ 
IN t..OU.64!:' ANP .I e.lo.J>EC> 
(),.tAl 7116 DU/..L NO INHERE: 
~a ...~r F'OJ..LOW MY 

Doonesbury 

Simon 

The Daily Crossword 

©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 4/6/82 All Rights Reserved 
Michael Molinelli 
0,0 JMcK it> ~HOOL., 1=14JL YoUR ScNII>R Y61rR, f:MOt.L lA! 4RAP SCHOOL, 

RND f F£/lR THEY MltY 6E RIG/IT. YOfl 

ACROSS 25 Assail 
1 Delivery witheringly message 28 VIscous letters stuff 
5 Asian big 30-ease shot (uncomfort· 
9 Bucket able) 13 Cougar 31 Chimney 14 Boomor lining 
barrier 32 Viral 16 Prefix for disease 
science 35 Beneflci· 17 Tentmaker aries of 18 Puccini 48A 
opera 39 Yellow 19 Greek or Red letters 40 Helper 20 Giveaway 41 Up tight 
artist 42 Menu 23 Diner sign 44 Blew a horn 24 "-is the 45 Kindol 
Kingdom" bath 
Monday's Solution 


Campus ­
•4 
p.m. -Lecture, Distinguished American Women Lecture Series, Mrs. Barbara Bush, Annen· berg Auditorium, 

•4 
p.m. -Lecture, The Future of Conservative Economics, Prof. Herbert Stein, library Auditorium, Sponsored by College of Business Ad· ministration, 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, New Approach in Design of Antimalarials Selectivel, Dr. L. William Scheiber, Galvin Ufe Science Auditorium, 

•6 
p.m. -Lecture, The Impact of Divorce, Mary Theis and Sr. Veronica Fisher, SMC, Campus Minis­try apartament, Rm. 28, Holy Cross Hal, Sponsored


Garry Trudeau 
by Counseling and Career Development Center andCampu, 

•7:30 p.m. -Film, Bottle Babies, Rm. 351 Madeleva, SMC, Sponsored by SMC Psychology Department,
•s 
p.m. -Dramatic Praenbdion, The Will of Zeus, Frank Fowle, Anncnberg Auditorium, Sponsored by English Department,

•s 
p.m. -1batre Pre8en1Jidon, Would you care for some Uverwurst?, SMC, Utde Theatre, Moreau Hall, SpoiUlOred by ND/SMC lbeatre, SI.OO 

•a
p.m. -1ec1ure. Zero Gravity, Solar Power and Astroldal Minin& 102 O'Sha& Sponsored by Society tor Free University, • -D~n. The Death Penalty, Profs. Ber· nard WorUng. Stanley Haverwas, Edward M, Rm.


)eb Cashin 
\ 
201 Architecture Building. Sponsored by Amnesty lntemalional.
/fiGHT TJI/5 Wl1't, FRTHER. 
T.V. Tonight 
7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8:00p.m.
47 Curse 25 Tastes 
48 Bigname 26 Whodunit 
In steel item 53-Strip 27-Longa, 54 Very tired Italy 
8:30p.m. 55 Pinnacle 28 Base 57 Southwest approach 
9:00p.m.
wind 29 Olljob, 
58 WWII for short meeting 31 Dart place 32 Informer 
9:30p.m.
59 Slay 33-majesty 
!O:OOp.m.
60 Trick 34 Secondhand 61 Tall tale 36 Tasty seed 
10:30p.m.
62 Heraldic 37 Repent 
ll:OOp.m.
term 38 Turncoat 42 Muscle DOWN relaxant 1 Soldier's 43 One, in address Edinburgh 
11:30p.m. 2 Cesspool 44 Motherol 3 Asian nurse Samuel 4 About life 45 Result of 
in academe Murphy's 
12:00a.m. 5 Manor Law 
!2:30p.m. 
6 Satellites 46 Shaping 7 MIT,e.g. tools 8 Opulent 47 Swedish 
9 Chicken actress 
16 22 28 
Jot 
16 22 28 
~4 
16 22 28 
Jot 
16 28 16 22 28 34 28 16 28 34 16 22 28 34 16 22 28 34 28 16 
MASH 
CBSN~ws jok~r·s Wild The: MacN~ii/Lchr~r R~port The Muppc:t Show 
Family F~ud Tic Tac Dough Straight Talk Daffy Duck Easr~r Show Q.E.D. Happy Days Uf~ on Eanh Th~ Bc:rstein Bc:ars East~r Surprise Joanie Loves Chachi St~ve Marlin's Bc:st Show Ev~r CBS Movie: "Love and Bullets" Three's Company American Playhouse Too Clos~ For Comfon The: Shape ofThings llart to Hart 
The: City is Ours Nc:wsCenter 16 22 Ey~witn~ss News Nc:wswatch 28 The: Dick Cavett Show Tonight Show Alice/WKRP/McCioud ABC News Nightline Captioned ABC News Fantasy Island Late: Night With David Letterman 
dish May 10 At full 48 Culture speed medium 11 Busy 49 Seafood 
Herbert Stein, A. Willis Robertson professor of 12 Tilt item 
economics at the University of Virginia, will give a
15 French 50 Friend 
lecture (Tuesday) April 6 at 4:00 p.m. in the Uni­
explorer 51 Religious 
versity of Notre Dame's Memorial Library
21 City NNE picture of Helsinki 52 Discharge 
Auditorium. 
22 Electrical 56 Chemical measurement ending 
.. 
.. 
•····························~··········The Student Unzon presents : • 
• 

: DanPeek : 
• 
formerly ofAmenca •• Aptil17,1982 •
• 
• • •• • 8Pm at Stepan Centet ••• 
• 
Tickets are $5 in advance. •
• 1 •
• and $6at the door • • You can buggovr tlck•ta right now • e on campus atthe SU ncketOHice e 
• Of atthe ACC Box Offlc• • 
The Student Union Social Commission is now taking 
applications for the Social Commission Staff. 
This is a great opportunity to get involved in the S.U. the coming school yea:! 
Call Dave Droulliard at 3181 or 239-7757 
• 
Tuesday, April 6, 1982 -page 12
Sports 
April snowball 
Bookstore slides into action 
By SKIP DESJARDIN Bourret confirmed that the only all about. Sports Writer other time snow accumulated "Do you realize that roughly 385 during the tournament was 1974. people played today? That's un­
Etched against a chalk-white April That day, only enough stayed on the believeable." sky, Bookstore basketball rode ground to hamper the last part ofthe Dziedzic also expressed his again. days last games -including a win gratitude to the scorekeepers, 
In days past they were marked by for then-freshman Billy Paterno's whom he says have "the toughest 
sunshine, clouds, tornadoes, sleet team, in which dribbling was impos­job ofanyone." and hail. But yesterday the games sible. One unfortunate incident marred were played under the most adverse Perhaps, eight years from now, the proceedings, as Dziedzic was conditions in the tournament's ten people will talk about the Gales forced to eject one player from the 
years. family. Three brothers, a sister, and a remainder ofthe tournament for un­
Fueled by the winds ofLake Mich­cousin competed as "Nicole's Dad, sportsmanlike conduct. igan, the snow howled across the In­Aunt, and Three Uncles," and "The rules are clear on this mat­diana plains. It froze fingers and toes. downed "Lou Costello and the ter," he said. "The player involved It covered the sidelines, soaked the Mosquitoes," 21-13. was the cause of several incidents score sheets and reduced visability Witout question, however, there during the game. Such actions simp­to near zero. will always be stories about the ly will not be tolerated. I didn't even 
But it did not stop the games. "Esophagus Constrictors." have to think twice about the mat­
"Incredible," said Commissioner They played in shorts, button­ter." Emeritus Rob Simari of the brutal af. down white shirts and ties. They Play continues tomorrow ternoon. "We had only three forfeits strapped calculators to their belts regardless ofthe weather. out of 40 games. And there were ac­and wore thick glasses. The team, tually people who came out in this consisting of Pat Kennedy, Joel Alu, 
simply to watch the games." Dave Prouly, Dave Sullivan and Mark English, even brought their own 
Basketball 

cheerleaders.
BOOKSTORE XI 
The plays were unique, to say the 
tourney

least. 'The Benzine Ring' consisted Undoubtedly, there will be stories of four players, holding hands and told of this day. Years from now, 
protecting the dribbler as he 
results

brought the ball down the court. Boxers... defeated "Chloe Monsters" The ring broke, and the shooter Bookstore Tournament in an incredible overtime game on people will tell of how "5 Scottish emerged. 'Georgetown' called for a 
Yesterday's Results the Stepan Courts. Harder to believe Stepan 1 
guard to pass the ball to the other than the final 2 2-20 score -snow is 
team, urging them to score. "Carbo­Judge Dixon and the Well-Hung Jury 21. Uncle Snag· g\epuss tB
Carbon Double Bond" had four
a great equalizer -was the fact that Johnny the Wad Holmes 21. F Buddies 14 played the second halfofthe game in players forming a tunnel for the Umden1ified Fly1ng PengUin Trotters 21. 4 Human boxer shorts and bare legs. shooter to run through, while Beings .13 
McNamara s Band 21. Or J and the Phyghtlng Commissioner Emeritus "Bone" Photons 1 
" 1812" featured a tape of the classic music. Stepan 2 F1ve Scottish Boxers 22. The Chloey Monsters 20
'We'd like to apologize for the 
(OT) game taking so long," said Kennedy, John Belushl Takes the Peps1 Challenge 21. Steely Dan 9
whose team lost to "Nestle's 
Nicole s Dad. Aunt. etc 2t. lou Costello and the Crunch...," 21-5. ''We lost some MosqUitoes 13 
valuable study time." 
B P s Peen-Wags 21. The Jetsons 4
Gann gets a shotas a starter 
Stepan3Meanwhile, history was very near­QUIIIn Dailey and 4 Guys def 6·C Party Nuts byBy DAPHNE BAILLE But it wasn't always easy. "At the future for the Irish. "We've got the ly made on Stepan courts. forfeit Dnbbling Oyxz 21. Chnsue Bnnkley and the Lou1sv111e
Sports Writer beginning I was a little scared," ad­player talent and the coaching "McNamara's Band" put the ball in 
Sluggers 13 mits the Stanford Hall resident. "I talent," he figures. "We've just got to the wrong basket just after halftime Buford Never Gets Laid 21. Etectnc-A1d K1ds B Pubic Cube def. Uncoord1nates by forfeit
Ifyou'd told Mike Gann a year ago got a lot of help though. The older put it all together." -forgetting about the change of 
Stepan4that he'd be starting on Notre guys -Tim Marshall, Bob Clasby, IRISH ITEMS: Saturday's practice directions after one team reaches Badf1nger 21. B1zzos 13 
Dame's defensive line this spring, he Kevin Griffith, and Joe Gramke -was moved inside because of the 11. It was the only point "D.). and We D1di It Our Way 21. Beerhunters B Jack1tup 21, F1ve Neat Guys 4 
wouldn't have believed you. were really helpful. They gave all the April snow, and Monday's practice the Phyting Photons" could muster, Grab Your Ankles . .21. The Weii-Lubed Scoring 
Heck, he almost didn't come to freshmen a lot of support. They still was cancelled. The team will work and Bookstore's first-ever shutout Mach1ne 13 Stepan5
Notre Dame at all. do," he adds. out on Tuesday and Wednesday was thereby avoided. 
Beecher Meat and L1quor 21. LIZard King 7 "My brother plays tight end at Ok­before the Easter break ... On the "Today exemplified the spirit of A. Cramum 21. Shroomyeoow t3 Kam1kazees 21. ACC All-Stars 15 
lahoma and I was going to go there casualty list, defensive endJon Autry this tournament," said a weary Com­
Were Playing For a M1chelob L1ght 21. S.C. 13
Spring Football '82
too," recalls the freshman flip tackle. is nursing a pulled muscle, and missioner Dave Dziedzic after it was Stapan6 "I had even signed a Big Eight letter receiverJoe Howard, a sore elbow. all over. "This is what Bookstore is 
Snite Museum and Four .21. Cash Cows 3 
ofintent to play there." 
Pete McDonald 21, Shoes Were Made for Suck1ng
• But the Lakewood, Colorado Gann traveled with the team but Face with Dogs 15 native finally shunned the warmer didn't see a lot of action until right 
Moon s Goons 21. Clueless 1 B How tho Burn Cook1es with .21. Ch1efta1n and H1s
climates to head north. "I wanted to end Griffith got hurt early in the Air Tribe 13 
Lacrossetea~jlghts
attend a school with a good football Force game. By season's end, the BookstoreS 
L1ck My Greasy Balls 21. RECON 1\10 

program, but I wanted a school with freshman had seen considerable 
Even Less Jacksontess F1ve 21. B11\ Granger and a good academic reputation too. So I playing time, but was not happy with Four Other .12
weather, Wesleyan 
Absence of Talent 21. No. But Senously. Where Are

chose Notre Dame." the 5-6 year. 13 After Gann's campus visit, it's a "I was glad I got to play, but I'd By MIKE SULLIVAN scored two goals in the second quar­Flash and the Gash 21. TOYOSPE -WITCO 9 Bookstore 10
wonder he decided to come to rather win. The team record is more Sports Writer ter to make the score 6-3 at the half. 
M B A. Five 21. Roemer s Narc Squad 12 South Bend. "I went home with a important than individual play. I'm Whatever hopes the Irish had for Nestles Crunch and the Bloated Stomachs 21. Esop­
limp," he laughs. "It was snowy and sure everyone on the team would The Irish lacrosse team expected an upset disappeared completely in hagus Constnctors 5 
Fat Eddie and the Boys 21. Throb Knobs 15 slippery here -I was falling all over feel the same way." a tough game when it traveled to the third quarter when Ohio Wes­Beecher Tool and Dye 2t. Nancy and Sluggo Suck the place." Despite the team's losing record, Ohio last Saturday to take on peren­leyan scored five goals in a row. The Face 15 
Lyons11

One of the thirteen Parade All­Gann never doubted that he had nial midwest power and nationally­Irish finally got untracked in the last 
Cnme Doesn I Pay over Four H1ts of Meece and Americans included in Faust's first come to the right school. "I've never ranked Ohio Wesleyan and it was quarter, outscoring Ohio Wesleyan Shrooms by forfeit The Shooting Wads 21. Dnbble. Penetrate. ShOot
recruiting crop, Gann wanted to do regretted coming here," he states not let down as it succumbed by a 5-1, but it was too late. 
and Layup 7 more than just "watching and emphatically. "I really like this place score of 12-9. Unehan led the team with four Cocoons 11121. Four Awesome Guys 15 
waiting." for what it has to offer." This game, like most of the team's Who the Hell Are These Guys 21. Apostolic Succes· 
goals and an assist. Bonde and Dan 
sion 19
"I was surprised I got to play so Mike believes this university of­other games, was played in adverse 
Pace each had two goals and Joe Lyons12 much because there were a lot of fers a lot in both schooling and ath­conditions. Not only did the Irish Hey! Where are the White Women At 21. Buck Naked 
Hart had one. Goalie Rob Simpsongood players on the line," recalls the letics. And lately, education has have Ohio Wesleyan to worry about, 7 
played the whole game and came up Doctors of Layup 21. Toxic Shock and the 6-4 lineman. "I came here thinking become a part offootball. but they also had to deal with rapidly Four Whalers and the Grabber 21. We II Steal an NIT
with 13saves. 
B1d 14

that freshman year would be mostly "We've been doing a lot of learn­dropping temperatures, strong 
Up and Coming 21. Joe Mama 3 
"Ohio Wesleyan has a good,
a learning experience, and that I'd ing this spring," says the marketing winds, and sleet. While both teams 

get to contribute in the following major. "Last year we did a lot of had to deal with the bad conditions, young team,"said Irish Coach Rich ~--------------., 
O'Leary. "They did lose to Denison
three years. But I got my chance ear­head-butting, but this year we're it took the Irish longer to get their (the other midwest lacrosse power) 
.Jnside:
ly." concentrating more on technique. offense untracked. However, by that last week, but their coach told meGann's first chance came in the We have new defensive schemes time, the game was out ofreach. 
that they didn't play well." 
very first game of 1981. with Coach Robertson. People still Ironically, it was Notre Dame who "The I.SU game was like a dream, make a lot of mistakes, but we're opened the scoring. Steve Unehan STICK CHECKS -The loss gave 
·Baseballpreview 
smiles Mike, who joins Joe Johnson adjusting pretty well. Everyone is hit Bill Bonde with a pass as Bonde the Irish a 1-1 record in the Midwest and Joe Howard as the only showing improvement." cut in front of the goal. Bonde put Lacrosse Association . . . They have 
p.lO

sophomores-to-be currently Defensive line coach Greg Blache the ball in the goal and the Irish were two more games this week, both at penciled in as starters on the squad. has been impressed with Gann this ahead, 1-0. home ... On Wednesday, division 
Bookstore schedule 
"It was something else playing in spring. "Mike tries to do exactly The lead did not last long, rival Ashland College visits Cartier front ofall those people -I'd never what we ask ofhim," he says. "That's however. Ohio Wesleyan scored Field at 3:30 ... Wooster College is 
p.9

• played for a crowd like that in high 90 percent ofthe battle." four unanswered goals over the rest the opponent on Saturday. The game school. It was kinda fun." Gann is optimistic about the of the first quarter. Both teams will be held at 1:30 at Cartier. 



