
~~ ~--­
-~-----~------------------.. 
, , ,Schwartzer -page 5 

VOL. XVI, NO. 1OH an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, MARCH 3, 1982 
Student body votes to continue boycott 
By RACHEL BLOUNT Gough, and Freddie Rodriguez. News Staff Ruehlmann won 66 percent of thc vote to Farley's 33 percent. 
The resolution to continue the The classes of 1983 and 1985 will Nestle boycott passed resoundingly return to the polls on Thursday for and two out of three races for class runoffs to decide their officers. Thc officers ended in deadlocks as Notre ticket of Mark Mai, Kathy Ray, Sean Dame students turned out in large Maloney, and Patty Cooney gar­numbers yesterday to vote on the nered 39 percent ofthe vote and Bill two issues. OBUD election director Hennessey, Tom O'Brien, Annt· Andy Tucker described the turnout as "impressive" as 63 percent of the campus participated in the elec­OBUD election director tions. 
Students voted to continue the Andy Tucker described campus-wide boycott of Nestle products. By a margin ofalmost two­the turnout as to-one, students voted in favor ofthe boycott. The resolution passed in all 'impressive 'as 63 residence halls except Pangborn 
and Morrissey. percent ofthe campus 
The class of 1984 was the only one to name new officers yesterday as the ticket of Mark Ruchlmann, participatedin the Tricia Romano, William Dawahare, 

right. (Photo by Tonia Hap) and Bob Thompson defeated Terry elections. Farley, Kathy Coughlin, Connie Me 
Chapski, and Rolly Power took 35 percent in the balloting for senior class officers. 
The freshman class, 76 percent of

0'Meara, HPC discuss campus social life 
whom participated in yesterday's elections, will decide Thursday be­by ROGER WILKE Dame's social problems over night." doesn't come tommorrow the stu­tween the ticket of Mark Nagy,
freely on campus and that there Neu,sStaff O'Meara discussed with the mem­dents will go crazy. " Connie O'Brien, Jennifer Brown,
would not bc proper control of this

bers the possibility ofa student cen­and Gary Strickland, who won 36
The keg issue was aadressed at the flow. O'Meara explained that in light 
Provost Timothy O'Meara at­ter or 'satellite' social areas at Notre end of the meeting. O'Meara ex­of the alcohol problem on percent of the vote, and Catherine tended last night's Hall Presidents' Dame. Suggestions by the members David, Thomas Lezynski, Eileen
plained that the basic reasoning be­campus,"it doesn't make sense to let 
Council Meeting to discuss the cur­ranged from a center in the space the of the Queenan, and Michael Schmitt, who
hind rejection policy the liquor flow more freely."
rent relationship bctwcen the stu­where the ficldhousc is now, to involved 'the flow ofalcohol'. He did say that Fr. Van Wolvlear received 25 percent. 
dents and the administration. He smaller social areas around the The new off-campus commis­
According to O'Meara, Fr. Van carefully considered the proposalfirst explained the upcoming PACE campus. Wolvlcar determined that kegs sioner is Bill Colleran, who garnered
and saw that it had some good

report which is expected to come One idea offered by O'Meara, is would allow liquor to flow more points. 56 percent of the vote. out later this spring. the possible refurbishing of Wash­O'Mcara dcfincd the rcporr as a ington Hall to allow the showing of ·list of Notre Dame's priorities for thc movies. The HPC members agreed 
SMCsecurity 

future. "The basic priority,"he that this could be an improvement. said,"ls to build a stronger Catholic One member said,"Thc Engineering university, but not to lose the Auditorium just doesn't seem like a 


Officersprotectstudents, catnpus 
'Catholic' part of Notre Dame." place to take someone to a movie." Editor's Note: The fOllowing article be leaving the majority of the stu­could be better used for patrolling.
"Notre Dame is going to be the Provost O'Meara also discussed 

concerning Saint Mary's security is dents unprotected. Our ultimate Bernardi says "Security spends an
s<.·hool that puts the Catholic in­the relationship between student 
fluence into socicty,"he government and the administration. the second ofa two-part series. The goal is to provide safety for 1400, awful lot of time on cars when they
our con­tinued. He emphasized that the administra­first part, which appeared yester­not just for one. Those 1400 need could be spcnding their timc more tion is influenced by student govern­day, explained the duties of the guarantee ofsecurity coverage," wisely. I feel their time could be bet­
"We affect areas of our sockty such as philosophy, theology and ment, but that it takes time for it to 
security. he says. ter used and more effective." Many SMC students disagree wih Of the ticket problem, Foldesi
research. Research is an example of react. 
"Student government has made us By MARGARET FOSMOE this policy. Junior Anne Becks says says "Security Is not here to make
an area we must become strong 
News Assistant "It is wrong. Security is here to help money. The officers are directed toin,"he said."lf we aren't going to do aware of many things which might the students and, with this policy, enforce the policy. The individualit here, what Catholic university not have been considered in the first "Security is here first to look after they are not doing it." guard is blamelcss; he is simply
will?" placc,"hc said. "Student proposals the masses, then the individual, Foldesi admits that there are some promoting an orderly envvlron­
He continued by explaining that arc important and will continue to which is certain to result in com­cases of"extreme circumstances" in ment. There is surely no incentive to
student life is on the list ofpriorities be considered." 
plaints," says Saint Mary's Personnel which Security will aid a student write (tickets)."
ofthe PACE report. "The administra­Summing up his thoughts about Director Robert Foldesi. with car trouble. Such cases are rare, The problem of how to deal with
tion is concerned with student life at student life, O'Meara said,"Most stu­Foldesi believes many conflicts he says, because "it is essential to overcrowding in the LeMans lot isNotre Dame and wants to improve dents like it here. I don't think the 
between Saint Mary's students and another dilemma facing Security.
it,"O'Meara said."The thing is, these place is a social catastrophe and I 
security concerning policy could be Kovach feels Security never made it
improvements take time. We aren't think we can improve it. We're not persuaded that if social space solved through increased com­clear where on-campus students
going to be able to solve all of Notre munication between the two should park. "It's probably a good groups. Plans are being discussed to idea to leave the student parking in establish a joint committee to LeMans for commuting students, but heighten awareness of the duties of they never told us of this problem," security and encourage student in­keep the patrol cars moving at all she said. Kovach conceded, put. times. We have to maintain however, the difficulty of enforcing Foldesi says the officers need to visibility." such a policy. accomplish their mission of safety Sophomore Mary Kovach agrees Kovach was one of several stu­and security while at the same time with Security policy in this area, but dents interviewed who did not promoting academics. "Ideally, we feels "extreme circumstances" know of the escort service offered should be in the background. It is should be defined. "When I have car by Security. She said "I never knew 
only after a conflict arises, such as a trouble I'd like help, but it would be ofit, but it's a good idea. They should traffic violation, that complaints leaving the campus unprou~cted. If let it be known that thc service is surface.'; 
they do help one, however, they available. One ofthe reasons I don't One policy that studcnts often should do it for all. The policy needs park in McCandless is because I complain about is security's general consistancy," she says. don't like to walk back to my dorm 
rule of not aiding students with car Another area of concern involves alone at night." trouble. This policy was not traffic violations and parking policy. Most students agrce that the es­employed simply to hind~r students, Some students, such as Senior Kit cort system is a good idea but many 
as some people think, Foldesi ex­Bernardi, feel Security concerns it­think it could be improvcd. Several plains. "Quite simply, if our officers self too much with parking See SECURilY, page 3
serviced all such cases, they would proJ::>lems, detracting from time that 






NewsBrieb 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
Passengers on a jet that had landed in Miami said they were putting on a charade to convince a would-be hijacker the plane was in Cuba when a burly auto racer awoke from a nap, sized up the situation and bowled the man over. The burly passenger and the captain of United Airlines Flight 674 wrestled the man to the floor of the Boeing 727 jetliner at Miami International Airport and the passenger,John Celestin ofChicago, held him in a headlock until he "turned blue." Guillermo Lazato Major-Diaz, a 23-year-old Cuban native, was arrested by FBI agents and charged with air piracy and 
using a weapon in the commission of a felony, authorities said. "I didn't have time to be scared," said Celestin, who was credited with ending the hijackingattempt. "But now I'm shaking." Major-Diaz was allegedly carrying a·bottle ofclear liquid that he threatened to ignite with a pocket lighter unless the Chicago-to-Miami flight, carrying 92 passengers and nine crew members, was diverted to Havana, author­ities said. -AP 
President Reagan vowed no retreat yesterday from his tax cuts and Pentagon buildup, saying the alternatives ad­vanced by critics are "designed to save certain legislators' hides rather than saving the economy." The president didri't name names, but his complaint was aired in the home state of a fellow con­servative Republican, Sen. Pete V. Domenici, who has declared Reagan's budget deficits unacceptable and proposed a counterplan which has attracted keen interest from leaders of both parties. Reagan, at an earlier stop in Cheyenne, Wyo., complained that Wash­ington "seems paralyzed by hand-wringers" over the record red ink in his own program. Reagan, whose lieutenants, including Budget Director David Stockman, have increasingly talked of compromiSe with the Congress, offered little quarter on his latest excursion from the Capital. -AP 
Federal Reserve ChairmanPaul A. Volcker said 
yesterday that at least short-term economic recovery is on the way, but urged Congress to reduce federal budget deficits lest the country "slip back into the morass again." As for the immediate out­look, Volcker said there is a "great probability we're going to see a leveling off of the economy and some recovery soon." But in con­trast to President Reagan's prediction of a robust recovery lasting several years, the head of the nation's central bank questioned the "sustainability of the recovery, whether it lasts or whether it turns out to be a rather temporary affair and we slip back into the mor11ss again." Even so, he said, there doesn't appear to be a risk ofa depres­sion. Volcker provided his assessment to the Senate Budget Commit­tee while Reagan's unpopular budget proposals was taking a beating from Republicans in the House and Senate. -"" AP 
The Senate easily approved legislation yesterday that would all but eliminate busing as a method of integrating public schools. The vote capped the first round of efforts by Senate con­servatives to limit federal court authority over social questions. Al­though the 57-37 tally was a major victory for Senate conservatives, the measure faces a highly uncertain future in the House. "The fight is not over," said Sen. Lowell Weicker, R-Conn., who has fought the proposal since last summer. "Thislegislation will not be enacted into law in this session of Congress." Sen. Bennett Johnston, D-La., a key backerofthe bill, conceded there is "a big hill to climb in the House" and said he was aware that "tricks" in the House rules might be used against him. The bill would pass if the House is permitted to vote, Johnston said. -AP 
Polish martial-law ruler Premier Gen. Wojciech Jaruzelski concluded a two-day visit to Moscow on yesterday after apparently winning promises of increased Soviet aid for Poland's rapidly deteriorating economy. The official Soviet news agency Tass reported that while Jaruzelski was en route to Warsaw he sent a message to Soviet President Leonid I. Brezhnev saying the visit would "contribute to a further strengthening and deepening of fraternal relations between our parties and peoples." It was the Polish leader's first visit to Poland's chiefally since he decreed mar­tiallaw Dec. 13 to stop 16 months ofstrikes and challenges to Com­munist Party authority by the now·suspended Solidarity union. Official Soviet sources, who asked not to be identified, said Soviet leaders assuredJaruzelski that more aid would be provided. But the sources did not specify how much aid would be given or in what form. -AP 
Chance oflight snowtoday. Cold with the high in the low to mid 20s. Tonight and tomorrow, snow likely, possibly mixed with sleet. Continued cold with the temperature steady tonight and the high Thursday in the low to mid 30s. The chances of measurable snow 20 percent today and 70 percent tonight. -A.P 
===IheJ'--~~~~ 
Founded November 3, 1966 
Th~ Obsffllef' is·an independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report­ed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus; throuJb letters, is encounged. 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46SS6 
Wednesday, March 3, 1982-page 2 


TheKnowledge of Understanding 
I'm stttlfng down by the highway, Down by that highway side. Everybody's going somewhere, Ridingjust as fast as they can ride. 
Well/ guess they got a lot to do, Before they can rest assured their lives are justified. Pray to Godfor me, babe, That He can let me sltde. 
'Cause I've been up and down this highway, Asfar as my eyes can see. No matter bowfast I run, I can never seem to get away from me. No matter where I am, I can't help thinking I'm just a day away from where I want to be. 
Jackson Browne 
A college education is a part of the American dream. It has become synonymous with a ticket to a high paying, highly respected white-collar job. It is used today to "justify" our lives. But many years ago it was seen as more than just a way to get ahead in the world. Some time ago, higher education was an experience of tedious years striving to squeeeze as much ofour books into our heads as we possibly can, without spending many troublesome hours letting our hearts speak back to us, we are nothing but walking encyclopedias. Before we can begin to understand the world around us, we must first understand the world within. Before we can start to change what so dearly needs to be changed here and elsewhere, the changes and disorder from within must be completed and conquered. 

The understanding ofourselves will never be taught in any classroom or book. It is a project every college freshman and senior must individually undertake, labor with, and finalize. Using the college experience to pursue self-understanding, even at the expense ofsome 

ourselves and ourlives, and not just ofchemistry, math, acquisition of knowledge, is the most worthwhile and or accounting. Somewhere 
~ ~W :::::=-1Illlll'\..'\..~ painful ~m~suit
'\.."\:~ ~\(\111 of college

along the way, this has been 
//-~--~I :/.~,\\~ ::::=. :;...'\..~-::::: and a lifeume. hOnce self-
somewhat lost as men and /. \\\\ ---understanding as been women have sped through their studies only to find out 
~ l~fi\\'(~1~~ E!r:::~i::::~·~:
that they don't really know where they are going. ~~~ ~ ~ l _!_ ~,, 1' 11 problems, and come up with The annual disease of 
0~ 'ff/)) ~~'-~ l 1 answers.
"Senioritis," although 
~% ~~~~~_,; . ~ l\I\-='~/ • • At this point, I'm sure
scorned by educators, is "'-}J_~ _ ~ you're wondering what this probably the best cure for 1d -/0 ,-" -babbling fool is talking our speeding tickets. Seniors 1' ::::--~~ ::__ about. What it really boils 
have time to begin to ques­tion their intentions and motivations behind their college education. Four years of nothing but hard studying can leave a very empty fc:eling in one's heart, a feeling that questions in­stead of justifies. Those seniors who have blindly worked and run around trying to give their lives a purpose through sheer book educa­tion, now find themselves feeling slightly misled and cheated. In their running around, they have passed so much by, including, probably, themselves. College is such a crucial time for learning and understanding. The 

easiest part ofthe process involves our books; the hard­est part involves ourselves. 
It is easy to live with a book. It is easy to dispose ofthe book. It is a chore to live with ourselves, especially ifwe don't know who we are or where we want to end up. College has so often been used by people to run away from themselves, always keeping just a single step ahead of their individuality. The more they run, the more they hide from themselves. 
The education with books is only a small part of the college experience and education. During our time here in college we must also learn about life, ours and others. Probably the most important outcome ofhigher education is self-understanding, because without it a college degree is really pointless. Ifwe have spent four down to is enjoying college and getting every possible benefit and experience out of it. Then, the trick is to learn from the plethora of experiences about our­selves; our motivations, limitations, and strengths. Four years at Notre Dame 
are very special. Although we are burdened with studies, that is a fact ofhigher education. But we do not have to let ourselves be overburdened. If we spent less time studying for a course and more time on acquiring the knowledge from the course, we might not get an A in the course, but we would have gotten all there was to learn. We would also find more time to learn about our­selves through a greater variety of experiences. Now many would claim that there is not much to do here, and that things are "screwed-up," so what good is more free time to "experience" college. That free time is where we learn about ourselves; we must do what we like to do and work for the experiences we wish to have. Notre Dame, for all ofits many, many exceptional qualities, seems to stifile individuals from becoming themselves. It takes hard work to find worthwhile things to do that allow us to experience and explore our individuality, but its definitely worth the time and ef­fort. I don't know about you, but I'd rather get a C in a course (or every course) and an A in Living rather than the other way around. 


Design Editor ...................... Maura Murphy DesignAssistants ........................ ]im Keyes Paul McGinn Typesetters .......................... jim Maclennan Tom Maclennan News Assistant.. ..................... Dave Sarphk Copy Editor ........................... joe Musemeci Features Layout .................... Greg Swiercz Sports Copy Editor ............. Dave Dziedzic Typists .............................. Mary Beth Porter 
Mike Ortman 
John McCarthy ND Day Editor .....................joe Musemeci Ad Design ................................. john & Mary Photographer .............................. Tonia Hap Guest Appearances Morrison Schwanzer 
Suspended Macor Cold Turtle Soup We ARE the System 

The ObserYer-= is currently acceptingapplicationsfor the following positions· 
Features Editor Executive News Editor Controller SMC News Editor Advertising Manager Sports Editor Production Manager Photo Editor Circulation Manager Editorials Editor 
~ll applications are due in the Observer offices 5:00p.m. Today 
Editorial Hoard 

Editor-in-Cbief..............................)ohn McGrath 
Executive News Editor ........................ Kc:lli Flint Sports Editor.............................. Skip Desjard1u · 
News Editor .............................David Rickabaugh Pbo~g__§ditor:.........~ ............................,lohn Macor SMC Executive Editor ........... Mary Agnes Carey Editorials Editor... .................Anthony Walton SMC News Editor ......................Cathy Domanico Features J::ditor .........................Gregory Swiercz· 
Department Managers 
Business Manager .........................Rich Coppola Production Manager ...................Michael Monk Controller.............................................Joe Mulflur Circulation Manager .............Tom MacLennan Advertising Manager .......................Chris Owen Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley 
The Observer. Wednesday, March 3, 1982-page 3 
Possiblechanges 


Senate discusses laundryservice 

ByDANKOPP 
News Staff 
Both optional laundry service and 
additional coin-operated machines 
on campus are possibilities for the 
future, according to Student Senator 
Brian Callahan. 

In Monday's Student Senate meeting Callahan reported the results of a study he undertook regarding Notre Dame's laundry situation. If the service were made 
optional it would result in only a ten­percent loss ofbusiness for the Saint Michael's Laundry, said Callahan. By not hiring new workers when others retire no employees would lose their jobs, according to the study. 
New machines would be needed to accomodatc extra students doing their own laundry. Callahan said that the facillty in Badin Hall is already too small. John Moorman, Director of Maintenance, told Callahan that both Keenan and Stanford Halls have 
continuedfrom pal(e 1 
students suggested SMC Security 
work more closely with ND Security 
in providing escons at night. Others 
felt the service was not as depend· 
able as it should be. Becker said "I 
tried to once but it took Security 
forever to show up. I don't suppose 
many girls use it." 
Of those interviewed, most stu· dents felt the nighttime guard that patrols the Main Avenue was a good idea. Sophomore Jan Czop said "I know that they do their job. He is out there watching. I also think it's a good idea to have them dress like students." 
Freshman Cindy Minot feels this guard is "definitely wonhwhile." Minot suggested the guard also patrol the ND side of the avenue, 
areas which could accomodate the 
twelve machines which would be 
needed. 
The bulk of the expense to the halls would be the necessary instal· lation of additional power lines to handle the extra electricity. Moor· man told Callahan that he would not be against the optional service. Moorman, according to Callahan, would just like to "wait and see." 
In other business, Student Body President Don Murday reported on a study he is undertaking about the quality of student life. Murday was commissioned last year by the Board ofTrustees to conduct the study. 
Last week Murday's brother David, who is a psychologist, was on campus where he met with ad­ministration officials, students, townspeople, faculty, psychological services personnel, and the Presi· dent of the South Bend Chamber of Commerce. With the results ofthese 
interviews he plans to compose a 
• • . Security 
which she feels to be more dan· gerous due to its greater isolation. 
Some students feel this foot patrol should wear a security uniform. One student commented "You don't know who you can trust. Without a uniform, you don't know if he's a rapist or an officer. 
Many students seem to be con­
cerned about the underground tun· 
nels linking some of the dorms at 
SMC. According to Security policy, 
the doors to the tunnels are 
supposed to be locked at all times 
during parietals. However, many 
students say this is not the case. 
One student who asked not to be 
identified complained that the tun· 
nels are locked at irregular times. 
"And they are often never locked at 
all on the weekends," she said. 

~---------·-iDaiijolirDia1or·------------­
I 
I l AR!RBOPOLOGY 
I . . . the science of Man's Cultural 
I 
I development, present, and future. 
I I I In today's rapidly expanding world of communication I transportation, international business · dependencies,'I and mass migrations •••
I 
I 
I Anthropology is Relevance 
I 
1 Learn about it. Wed., March 3, 8pm, 331 O'Shag

1---------------------------------------­
~ 
~ I
I GOING TO NEW YORK CITY ~ I OR THE GARDEN STATE i ~ FORSPRING BREAK? ~ 
~ I 
~ A second New Jersey bus will be available ifand only if ~ ~ 30 or more people show up tonight March 3rd at 7 PM ~ 
~ in the LaFortune ballroom. ~ 
~ Thefirstbnsfilledin 15 minutes. Be early! ~ ~ Cost-$73 fround trip only) ~ ~ Leaves Fri lay March 12 Returns Sunday March 21 ~ 
~ Picks up ru d drops off in Bernardsville, E. Brunswick ~ ~ andPortAuthorityinNewYorkCity. ~ I ~ ~ I
! ~ 
....................................................................................................................................................................................... 
. . .;_\.... ...: ""~' ~ 
more structured questionaire which will be randomly distributed to stu· dents. 
Murday says his brother informed him that the main problems which students express about the univer­sity are apathy, lack of social space, male-female relations and difficulty of communication with the ad· ministation. 
Also as part of the study, Murday will travel with Director of Students Jim McDonnell and two under­graduates during Spring break to other universities. Murday says they plan to visit Duke, Villanova, Vander­bilt and Nonhwestern "not only to look at physical faclities, but to talk to students and make a comparison with Notre Dame." 
The final component of the study is a survey being distributed to stu· dents to find out what they want in a student center. Murday plans to correlate all the information and give a formal presentation to the Board of Trustees on May 6,"armed with the results of my brother's repon, with the results of our trip, and with the student centersurvey." 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Fr1day and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacation penods The Observer 1s published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys Col· lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnt1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. 


., 

Soviet President Leonid Brezbnev, right, shakes bands wttb Polish Premier Wojciecb jaruzelski at the start of their meeting Tuesday at the Kremlin. ( AP Laser photo) 


MUSICALS 

Tues. 7, 9:15,11:30 
THE UNSINKABLE MOLLY BROWN 

Wed. 7,10 
OKLAHOMA! 

Thurs. 7,10 
WEST SIDE STORY 

Fri., Sat. 7, 10 
NEW YORK, NEW YORK 
Engineering Auditorium $1.00 

Sponsoredby ND Student Union 
THENROTC 

SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM. 
TUITIONPLUS $2,000 EXPENSE MONEY ANDA NAVY OFFICER COMMISSION 
he two-year NROTC 2 year Scholarship Program offers tuition plus two years of expense money that's 1·1orth up to $2,000, and the challenge of becoming a Navy Officer with early responsibilities and decision-making authority. 
During your last two years in college the Navy pays for tuition, uniforms, all textbooks and an allowance of $100 a month for up to 20 months. Upon graduation and completion of requirements, you become a Navy Officer, with important· decision-making responsibilities. 
Call your Navy representative for more information on this challenging program. 
NROTC UNIT, UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 239-6442 
NAVY OFFICERS GET RESPONSIBILITY F AS1· 



r 
Noah and Irene Carver open· Winners Night at the ,Nazz March 6. 


Carversplay Nazz Winners Night 
0 
n Sat. night, March 6, there will be a unique act opening the Winners Night at the Nazz. Like themselves, their music is warm, 
Steve Willertz 
mellow, and emotional. The pair of 
,inging guitarists, Noah and Irene Carver, are sensitive people with an 
ability to feel close to their audience. Their renditions ofsongs byJames Taylor, Bob Dylan, and Joan Baez will foster a personal and 
relaxed atmosphere. Upon hearing 
the beautiful voices of Noah and 
Irene, you may not notice that they 
are both blind. 
The Carvers' unique t blend of music is nourished through their dif­ferent musical backgrounds. Noah, originally from Kentucky, combines'­that bluegrassfrom his heritage with the type ofmusic that dominated his early career, rock-n-roll. Noah has fond memories ofhis lead guitar days innte 1960's. His band, cen­tered in Indianapolis, rocked with the sounds ofChuck Berry and the Beatles. Those were rowdie times, someofwhich Noah would prefer to leave in the past. One such time was when his band was playing the Silver Dollar Saloon. Suddenly a man came in waving a gun, threatening to 
~5 
s 
m 
e
r. 
a 
shoot up the place. Noah would 
rather be arm in arm with his wife 
than in the miost ofa bar room 
brawl. 
Irene, on the other hand, comes 
from Columbus, Ohio with a 
childhood ofpiano and voice les­
sons. She classifies her early musical background as traditional folk. Irene modeled her style after such artists asJoni Mitchell andJudy Collins. She _E;_a very vc:rsatile musician and plays the dulcimer and the harp as well as 
the piano and guitar. Irene per­
formed her mellow folk music in 
coffee houses in and around Cincin­
nati, where she had a small follow­
ing. 
Noah was playing "some old 
Chuck Berry tunes" at a concert in 
Cincinnati just before their back 
stage meeting. Within a year after 
that introduction, they were 
married, although they continued to 
perform separately. They often 
played together informally and after 
two years of marriage, they decided 
to team up professionally. They rel­
ocated in South Bend and began a 
new family as well as a new career. 
They now have a seven year old 
daughter,)oni, and a two year old 
son, Adam. 
In recent years, Noah and Irene 
have played in various clubs in the 
South Bend area. Their most per­manent night club performances were :at the Boar's Head. They also enjoyed performing in the Whitewater Series at the Century Center. The Carvers have recently faded away from the clubs. They 
have grown tired ofplaying the requested popular music, night after night. Irene described it as, "taking the place ofa juke box." The Carvers now perform less and spend more time withJodi and Adam. They also both teach guitar lessons in South Bend. 
Th(: Carvers' act at the will be a first ofsorts. They have not played on a college campus since their out­door concert a Earlham The concert will include songs from BillyJoel and Gordon Lightfoot as well asJoan Baez,.James Taylor, and Bob Dylan. Noah and Irene will also perform a couple oftheir own compositions. 




ND orchestra performs Rigoletto 
A 
performance oftheRigoletto will! be held at O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's College, on Saturday, March 6 at 8:00p.m. and 
Ray Wise 

· Sunday, March 7 at 2:00p.m. Many ofthe performers have appeared in famous opera houses throughout the country, and the performance is brought to O'Laughlin with the aid ofthe Indiana Arts commission and the National Endowment for Arts. 
The Notre Dame Orchestra will perform in the opera. Orchestra director Adrian Bryttan refered to the opera as "...one ofthe most dif­ficult and complex things for an or­chestra to do." He also stated although opera is "...one ofthe best ways to train an orchestra" it is also "very stimulating for students." 
The male members ofthe Notre Dame ofthe Notre Dame Chorale will portray the role ofChorus in what has become the third annual opera performance at Saint Mary's. Notre Dame student joseph Yorey will be featured as the only student The Notre Uame orchestra, male performer. excluding the chorus, in members ofthe Notre Dame his portrayal ofCount Lhiprano. (;horale, performers from the area Other perormers are from the community, and national opera sin­greater South Bend area. gers will combine their talents to 
__ _Rigoletto is one of the most produceRigoletto at O'Laughlin popular operas ofall time. Based on Auditorium on the Saint Mary's Victor Hugo'sHuncbback ofNotre campus. The performance is 
· Dame, the opera deals with the presented with the support ofthe In-· plight ofan ugly, hunchbacked court diana Arts Commission and the Na­jester whose beautiful daughter is tional Endowment for Arts. seduced by a duke. In his anger, he Performances will be held on Satur­hires an assassin to kill the duke, on­day, March 6 at 8:00p.m. and Sun­
ly to find that an error has been day, March 7 at 2:00p.m. Tickets are made and that his daughter was mur­available at the O'Laughlin dered instead: Auditorium box office.
-·---••uunaaaauuaauauS•TlJDY.iNEURQPE................................. 
The University of Louvain (~st. 1425; . I.euven, Belgium
offers 

COl·':.....,LETE PRO..i'RA.HHES IN . PHILOSOPHY FOR TI!B DEGREF~ OF B.A., M.A., AND Ph.D. plus A JUTJIOr: Yl,.;:AR ABHOAD F.ROGRAMME 
All Co~rGes Are In English Tui~ion ia 11,500 Bel~ium Franks~~ 300$) Wr~te To: Secretary English Progra~nes Kardinaal Nercierplein 2 l R-3000 Leuven 1 Bel~ium 
........_.........................---..............._...................._________....i 



James Taylor twinkles at Holiday Star 
L
ast Thursday night's crowd certainly wasn't the picture singer ~ames Taylor expected. "You folks will do just fine," the acoustic guitarist announced at the beginning ofhis third (and last) evening at Merrillville's (Ind.) Holiday Star Theatre, located on Indiana interstate 1-65 South and U.S. 30. "The last couple ofnights we've had an oil painting for an audience," he stated before beginning two hours and two encores of familiar tunes. 
Aprecise, proficient yet still exciting musician on stage, Taylor en­tertained the audience with popular hits "Fire and Rain," "Steamroller," "Mexico" and "How Sweet It Is (To Be Loved By You)." For veteran Taylor fans, however, the performer included guitar and vocal solos on "You Can Close Your Eyes,' "Love Has Brought Me Around" (both from his Mud Slide Slim and The Blue Horizon album) and 

U!

"Something's Wrong," a little 
"traveling music" selected 
Mary Agnes Carey

from the]ames Taylor albun first released by Apple · records in late 1968 in Great Britian then in America the following year by Capitol Records. 
Bass player Leland Sklar, Dan Dugmore on pedal steel, "Chicago­born" drummer Rick Marotta and Billy Payne, a keyboardist former­ly ofLittle Feat, assisted Taylor throughout the evening, oftenadding innovative variations toJT's often heard selections. 
Taylor's voice sounded clear throughout the evening and reflected his impromptu manner. Slightly balding, Taylor still retains a youthful look and enough energy, it seems, to continue the hectic concert pace for several years. 
"Riding o-n a Railroad" came early in the evening, anotherMud SlideSlim selection that featured Taylor on acoustic guitar. "Up on the Roof," one ofthe two tunes Taylor selected from hisF/ag album ("Mother Trucker" was the second cut) was quickly acknowledged by the audience, followed by "Love Has Brought Me Around," a song 
that featured musicians Payne and Sklar. 
"Sunny Skies," and "Carolina In My Mind," songs about Taylor's home state (North Carolina), "Steamroller," and "Rock and Roll Is Music," a tune from the singer's Walking Man album, were also heard. "Long Ago and Far Away" gave Taylor another chance toil­lustrate his t;tlent in combining music and lyrics. The song explains the singer's disillusionment with past romances and his hopes for the end oflong, "golden rainbows" when love will become more "than just a word" he's "heard when things are being said." 
Taylor opened his second set with the help ofa reel-to-reel tape recorder for "You'reJust in Love," from Irving Berlin's "Call Me Madam," and "Shower The People." "Music," from Gorilla, "Sweet BabyJames" and "Don't Let Me Be Lonely Tonight" featured ex­tended instrumentals, incorporating all stage members into the production. 
'"Country-flavored' Bartender's Blues," "Handy Man" and "Your Smiling Face," all from Taylor's]T album, ended the concert before he appeared for encores "You've Got a Friend" and "Secret 0' Life." 
Taylor's most recent album "Dad Loves His Work," was not featured during the evening due to its "big band sound" that's dif­ficult to reproduce on stage, according to Taylor's road crew person­
nel. Bobby Womack and the Chi-Lites, Larry Gatlin and the Gatlin Brothers Band, Tom jones and the Beach Boys are upcoming acts who will be featured Mar. 12, Mar. 14, Mar. 19-21 and Apr. 2-3, respectively, at the Holiday Star. 
The Observer Features Section 
Wednesday, March 3, 1982 -page 5 

Sch-wartzer albutn 'Ginchiest' 
P
eople have been complaining that Rock'n Roll is dying. They 
"viiTimly 
say that the hard rebellious drive which made youth and their music unite in antithetical glory against their parents seems to be disappear· ing. Disco died (thank God). Punk is passe. New Wave is split between the search for the lyrical and the tribal. The Stont:s are pushing perfume. Big investments may slow· Iy exchange the creative anarchy of Rock'n Roll for watered -down cutesy melodies which prove profitable. It looks like Rock is tur­ning middle-aged. 
But this is not true of Morrison Schwartzcr! Hailing from the K· Marts and asphalt prairies of New Jersey, Morrison Schwartzcr and the Toxk Wastes arc lcaving debits to the CPA's and searching for the es­sence of Rock'n Roll ... RAGE! 
In his second album it's The Ginchiest (on Guinncss World Records), Morrison brings home the message that Rock can con4uer all. Tht· album opens up with a hard punk vt·rsion ofthe Nat King Colc/Donny Osmond pure pop hit "Puppy Love" enhanced with kazoos and dog yipcs. Then it changes its musical direction and starts hopping with a Schwartzcr favorite "I've Got A Thorn McAnn Mentality" whose bopping refrain and bluesy verses celt-brate the mass production banality of modt:rn life ...a recurring theme of Morrison's own brand of Microwave Rock. 
Other notable cuts from the al­bum include "No Class," a reggae tribute to delinquency. "Change the Channel," a television durge, 

It's the Ginchiest( Guinness World Records) 
marches into a melody offavorite 
television themes includingMission lmpossib/e,Secret AgentMan and Green Acres. The album's first single "To You She Might Be A Waitress 
But To Me She's Kicrkegaard" is well 
on its way to becoming a hit. 
It's The Ginchiest is one ofthe more powerful new Rock albums out in months. It is a very strong fol­low up to Morrison's first al­
bum,Damn GlatiTo Meet 'Cha 
which contained the 1 hit "Just A 
Typical Top Forty Song." Consis· 
tcncy and originality are not new 
words when applied to crt:atively eclectic rockers like Morrison Schwartzer. Such artists thrive on versatility. They are in love with all forms of music... from the lyrical to the gutteral, from the harsh screams ofa guitar in agony to the mournful stroke ofa violin bow across the strings. This album contains such range. It can boast proudly ofits subtle lyrics, booming arrangement and the great taste of the vinyl itself. 
After one listen to It's The Ginchiest it is no wonder why Bruce Springsteen said, "I have seen the future ofRock'n Roll and he is Mor­rison Schwartzcr." 




Trivia Quiz XVIII 
M 
y offering to you last week wa~> a real stinker, wasn't it? But not as big a one as I had thought; most questions were answered by someone. Here are the answers 

Tim "vvly 
I. "Twooo, a-three, a-Four ...etc." -"Trouble" by Lindsey Buckin· gham 
2. 
"One, two, three, FOUR!" with guitar solo and "Well, she was..."­"I Saw Her Standing There" by the Beatles 

3. 
"One, two, three" with a "Turn it up" -"Sweet Home Alabama" by Lynyrd Skynyrd 

4. 
"One, two, three o'clock" -a giveaway: "Rock Around the Clock" by Bill Haley and His Comets 

5. 
"TEN!...NINE!...EIGHT!...on down to FOUR! THREE! TWO! ONE!" -"Instant Replay" by Dan Hartman 

6. 
"And we go! One...two..." with piano and "Ah ah ah ah ..."-"At the Hop" by Danny and the Juniors (very difficult as most copies had this intro. deleted) 

7. 
"Uno, dos...one, two, tres, quatro" followed by ten chords ­"Wooly Bully" by Sam the Sham and the Pharaohs 


8. The whispered "One, two, 

.....~~......1\TTEN I N!! 
three" and acoustic guitar intro up to "Slow down, you..." -"The 59th Street linage Song ( feelin' Groovy)" by Simon and Garfunkel 
9. 
"One and two and a-one, two, three, four" etc.-"(It's All Da-Da-Down to) Goodnight Vienna" by Ringo Starr (countdown uttered by John Lennon) 

10. 
"Onc...two...one, two, three, four (with drumsticks)" -"Can't Get Enough" by Bad Company 


Hopefully this week's quiz will not be as difficult. I don't think it is...ofcourse, that does not mean much to you. These are all songs written to, for, about, or otherwise directed toward real people. This quiz could get really obscure and ask about singers' girlfriends, etc., so I _ _ 

r--~iErY"ouiiMAjoi; ..sciiF:nui:F:--y
I Wednesday,March3 
I 

I 
Psycho1ogy 200 Haggar Hall 4:30 PM Communication and Washington Hall 4:30 PM 1 Theatre AuditoriumIAmerican Studies Room 331 O'Shag. 7:00 PM1Anthropo1ogy Room 331 O'Shag. 8:00 PM 1 Government and Room 104 O'Shag. 8:45 PMI International St. 
I 

!~-----------------------------------~~~~ 
MANDATORYMEETING for SPRINGBUS 
Thursday,March4 7:00pm. 
have restricted this to songs about well-known people. Name the per­son about whom the song is sung. 
1. 
"The King Is Gone" by Ronnie McDowell 

2. 
"All Those Years Ago" by George Harrison 

3. 
"Sexy Sadie" by the Bcatlcs 

4. 
"Puppy Love" by Paul Anka 




5. 
"Legend ofa Mind" by the Moody Blues 

6. 
"New Kid in Town" by the Eagles 

7. 
"Candle in the Wind" by Elton John 

8. 
"Legend in Your Own Time" by Carty Simon 


9. "Hurricane" by Bob Dylan 
I 0. "Happy Birthday" by Stevie Wonder 

Nuke attacks do not destroy land, peopledo 
I
t's not easy to find a bright side to the possibility ofa·nuclear war, but ifour cities are ever destroyed and there's anyone left to rebuild them, I hope they do a better job next time. 
Even ifyou love our country, you can't go many places in it with· out thinking what a mess we've made. Too many ofour houses and commercial buildings are ugly and we've torn up too many places of natural beauty to put them there. Where there aren't any buildings, we've covered the earth with a net of roads. 
The trouble is, ofcourse, the United States was never really planned. Even ifsomeone had had the foresight to lay out our country to make it look the way it should look, no one would have had the time, the money or the know-how to do it. When the Pilgrims got here, they weren't thinking of us. They were worried about stayingwarm and dry. They weren't builders, carpenters or ar­chitects. They'd been living in cities in England and most of them didn't even know how 
D
A d 
to build themselves a shelter 



n y "oonvy 
as a good as the Indian wig­wam. Our cities, our suburbs and our countrysides aren't the . -----­
result ofany grand plan at all. They're the result of millions ofdif­ferent. people doing things less than the very best way because of time, money, ability orgreed. On alot ncar our hone, a developer has recently put up six houses in a space too small for three. He leveled two barns, took down a hill with all the bigold trees on it and filled in 
an interestingg swampy area at one end with rocks bulldozed from 
the hill. It broke my heart. 
That's pretty much the way all America has been put up. I suppost: when our own house was built in the late 1800's, someone in the farmhouse halfa mile down the dirt road thought the man who built it was crowding him. 
We shouldn't give in easily to badly planned and poorly located housing, though. I like thc people in any town who fight the developers, but it's very difi1cultto know what's progress and what's simply greed. Greed keeps intruding on the right all of us should have to live in an area that looks nice. The troublc is, ofcourse, gret:d isn't illegal. 

It's not only the buildings in our cities and towns that arc poorly built and located, either. Many ofour cities themselves should look better and be somewhere else. 
Several years ago I flew across the United States and back in a helicopter with a cameraman, his assistant and a pilot. The country is some sight at that speed and that altitude, but I've often thought I'd like to redesign the whole thing. 
The landscape is dominated by cemeteries, car dumps and gravel pits that have been dug out ofhillsides for road construction. These are the three things you see more offrom the air at low level than you do from the ground. The other thing I knew all along but was most impressed by from a helicopter trip across this country, is that almost all our major cities were put where they arc because ofwater. Name a city and see if it isn't on a major river, lake or ocean. 
Water isn't as important to commerce today as it used to be when our cities were founded. Sometimes the bridges and tunnels you have to use to get over or under the water and into the city now are more trouble than the water is worth. I'd move a lot ofcities away from the water. I'd rather have It to play in, anyway. 
I have a million changes I'd like to make In the layout ofourland. I wouldn't want to do anything you don't go along with, ofcourse. Just to stan with, I'd move Fort Worth a little farther away from Dallas. I'd move one major city into both Maine and Utah so that Utah had somethingother .than just Salt Lake. And there's no doubt I'd imple­ment the old plans to move Washington, D.C., to Kansas, and sell the old Washington to Disneyland. 
'----------------------~ 
•STUDENTNURSE ASSIST ANT 
Grant llospltal of Chicago offers nursing students 
the opportunity to apply nursing theory to direct 
patie~t care. The SNA is given patient ~~signment 
and can perform all nursing functions wiLh the 
exception of medication administration and IVs. 
It is our goal that your employment here will be 
an enriching and rewarding experience. 
Grant Hospital is a 508-bed health care f,'lcihty 
located in the Lincoln Park area. We are convenient 
to all transportation. Summer housing i!; available at DePaul University. We will be interviewinq for a 6-week period beginning March lst. If {OU are currently enrolled in a nursing proqram, have completed your Med/Surg Clinical, and would like more information. please call Mary Hitpa:; COLLECT 
at: :lurse B.ecruitment {lUI) 883-8801 
GRANT HOSPITAL OF CHICAGO 
550 W. Webster Chicago, IL 60614 • 
I 
An Equal Opportunity Employer MIF • 

..------------------..· 



Sports=/=l=r=r,=·e~~l:::.'S==============W=e=d=ne=sd=ay~,1 =M=ar=ch=3=,1=9=82==pa=ge=6 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
The Fellowship ofChristian Athletes is
Cheerleading tryouts are scheduled to be held sponsoring an evening with Athletic Director Gene Corrig_an. The from March 31 thru April 3 at the Notre Dame ACC A second and 
presentation will be held in Walsh Hall basement tonight at 8:30p.m.final meeting for all those interested in becoming members of the 
FCA promotes christian fellowship among athletes ~nd coaches in 1982-1983 Notre Dame Cheerleading Squad will be held in the 
hope that this will be shared with the larger community. All are 
LaFortune Ballroom today at 6 p.m. Tryout schedules and the 
invited. -The Observer 
finalized scoring sheets will be passed out. -The Observer 
Gary Grassey and Karl Love will be the guests 
on Speaking Of Sports, tonight at midnight on WSND-AM 64. Lis­
Notre Dame Sailing Club will hold a meetmg 
teners may talk to the guests by calling 239-6400 and 239-7425. ­tonight at 6:30p.m. in room 204 O'Shaughnessy. -The Observer 
The Observer 
CENTRAL COLLEGIATE 
HOCKEY ASSOCIATION WLTGFGAPct 
Bowling Green  20  7  1  164 98  .732  
Mochigan State  21  10  1  138 93  .672  
MichoganTech  16  11  1  129  120  .589  
Notre Dame  15  13  2  139  130  .533  
Michigan  14  12  4  93  101 .533  
FernsState  13  15  2  115  133  .467  
Lake Superoor  11  15  2  112  107  .429  
North. Mochogan  12  16  0  106  127  .429  
West. Michigan  11  18  1  129  150  .383  
Ohio State  tO  17  1  95  117 .375  
Miamo  9  18  1 100  132 .339  

Note: 111.-Chocago Cor. not oncluded on standings and not eligoble for league totle, but games agaonst I-CC figure in league standings. 

The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However, classifieds to appear in the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or through the mail. 

Classifieds 

Student housong--clean, safe. $100/mo. EMERGENCYIII Ride needed to either LOOKING FOR RIDE TO SYRACUSE, Joan Moore,. MUTATIONS 291-1405. RidgewOOd, N.J., or Nyack N.Y. on or NY AREA FOR SPRING BREAK!! IF . . .In Concert Sunday, March 7, 
alter March 12. Will share expenses YOU CAN HELP CALL STEVE AT 8317. DANTAGLIA: 
. 
L--1_W_A_N_TE_D______,j 

1982 3 p.m. ,;-t Morea;;Little Theatre. Be your own boss. Comfortable 5 and driving tlme-c:all284-5127. WILL SHARE USUAL Learn to read the personnels everyday­
bedroom. completely furnished house for soon! Dod you find Fridays? 
39 days until Easter: Who's hoppong yourIf you missed ANN BOURJAIL Y, you're a 5 or 6. Close to campus. Phone 288-3942. ATTENTION HAWKE:YESII The South I need a ride to Dayton, 0. thos weekend way?

fool, but don't be a complete idiot...see Bend branch of HAWKEYE WORLD for U.D.IN.D. bb game Will share cost. AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME PAT ANDREWS Thursday, March 4, at 8 TOURS announces its annual excursion Call Jim 1388. How else the Keenan II lnterhall BBall Dave, can I play with your zipper even if
p.m. in SMC's Little Theatre, Moreau Hall. to the vacation paradise of DES MOINES Juggernaut?! Congrats to the B League 
your coat is off? 

Get a clue and BE THERE. for an excitement-filled ten days in March. Need ride to LONG ISLAND for Spring Champs !I! Jim Cripple" Bader FOR SALE Two lucky riders will board the cruiser Break. Will share usual. Meghan 81 t 4 Pat Jaws" Beshai 
Bill: BEauty of a fast car, eh?

DO YOU NEED A GOOD HAIRCUT? Misaligned Nova" captained by Dave Rock Neuter" Butler GUYS $4, GIRLS $6 CALL MICHOLE AT Durbala on Friday, March t 2. Cruise Need ride to Detroit thos weekend. Call Moke Hoosier" Colligan 
Katherine, Thank you for the bar. bonjis,

7951 FOR SALE: GOOD SONY WALKMAN. director Rachel Blount has designed a Tom lacocca at 3574. Dave Dunk" Deranik 
the star, SYR, high alt. pumping and... ,

GREAT BUY. CALL 239-7494. tour which proceeds west on 1-80 past Brendan Fitzy" Fitzgerald 
ATTENTION SKIERS !!I Two spots have you and the happiest 5 months of my life. 
MORRISON iCHWARTZER scenic Davenport, Iowa City, and Des Mike Cheerleader" Good ... MICROWAVE ·!'lOCK .... THE FOR SALE: KAPLAN MCAT BOOKS. Moines and ends 1n Booneville ap­just open ned up on the S.U. Spring Break Matchew Ted Perpetual Motion" Gutman ENERGY WILL HIT YOU! Ski Trip. Anyone interested, should con­Milton Nice Haircut" LeGrand 
CALL t574AFTEA 10:30 proximately 7 hours after departure.) (Captain Dave assures a speedy trip by tact the S.U. Tix Office immediately. This Join JOHN, PAUL, GEORGE, & RINGO John Clutch" Salig for a BEATLES WEEK-END ON WSND
in Ro.ck" Shreve AM-64! Starting at 3:00p.m. Friday, AM­
DISCUS~ HOW CAREERS, MARRIAGE ;:, P;;;g;~;;;;;;;;,t;i~ sac $iio sarry 8207 ... ' keeping Director Rachel passenger is first come first serve basis. Johnny 
AND FA~IL Y CAN BE COMBINED ........ quarters to avoid the Illinois State Police). Mike Spiny II" Spaulding 
64 brings you 3 days ofthe BEST OF THE 

ATTEND TWO CAREER FAMILIES," USED BOOK SHOP. HOURS WED., Reservations for this exciting tour are now Frank Aorcraft Carrier" Whole 
BEATLES, including little known

THURSDAY AT 6:30 IN THE STUDENT SAT. SUN. 9-7. CASPERSON 1303. being taken -it's sure to fill up fast. so Chaz Adonis" Wooding 
BEATLE-BITS" and FREE ALBUM

AFFAIRS CONFERENCE ROOM, LE BUCHANAN RD., NILES. call 8433 or 7983 today to book your spot Coach John Buck" Buckley 
I PERSONALS I 
GIVEAWAYS!!! Tune into NOTRE
MANS HALL, SMC. on this breathtaking cruise. 
DAME'S BEST ROCK--WSND-AM 64111 

KAREN MIEDLAR Going east on the PA TURNPIKE? I need JEFF LINDHOLM: do you ever read the KAREN MIEDLAR a ride to Harrisburg exit for break. Call personals? Just checking ... Lookong for a truly portable, yet powerful 
to my Grace brother: I'm so glad that I KAREN MIEDLAR Katie x4387. Will share usual. personal computer? See The Oabome1,
finally got to meet you, even if you didn'tTICKETS wear your hat to the party last Friday af­
LIVE AND IN­BIG DAN I JACK-Psyched to hear about 64K, dual tOOK disk drives, plus $1400 SEMINAR...THURSDAY... 12:15 IN. THE PLEASE! NEED 2 RIDES TO LOUI$­your sudden passion for the ballet! Hope worth of software, all for $1795. FOUR·
ternoon!!! I hope you'll keep your promise 
to ·come and see me sometime!II" love,

SMC SCIENCE HALL. VILLE. CALL t03t. THANK YOU! you're truly enjoying Buckeye Land now. WAY COMPUTER PRODUCTS. (Across 
RICH ----lNG ALUMNUS NEEDS TICK· 
secretm

Love , Buttercup from North Village Mall). 277-7720. Experienced typist will do typing. Please NEED RIDE TO ROCHESTER NY FOR ETS TO MORRISON SCHWARTZER 
p.s.bopeyourlmeefee/s belh!rsoon t

CONCERT. WILL PAY IN GOLD OR call 287-5162. BREAK CAN LEAVE 3-11 CALL PAUL To the BEAUTIFUL BLONDE PREPPY MORRISON SCHWARTZER AND THE
GIVE YOU SINECURE JOB. CALL G. M. 
Hi Mom

t037 and your friend with the red skirt at the TOXIC WASTES ... MICROWAVE ROCK RIDE NEEDED TO ATLANTA WILL Saturday night, t 1 :00 showing of MASH. SHARE USUAL CALL MARK-1724 DESPERATELY NEED t-2 RIDERS TO You made our noght complete! We were PAT ANDREWS IS COMING ... PAT WELL THY AT 9t 9-5555. 
HoMelinda
Need extra tickets for graduation. Call Mark at 3008. 

TAMPA, FL AREA FOR BREAK. WILL sitting t row behind you and we saw you ANDREWS IS COMING ... PAT GOT A CAR FOR SPRING LEAVE ON THURSDAY, MARCH t1. later at Regina. Call us att937 or 1939. ANDREWS IS COMING to Saint Mary's
this next one is a real gem BREAK/GRADUATION? '75 WGN CALL SAM AT 8708 OR AT 8712. J.GEILS& H. Little Theatre in Moreau Hall, March 4 at 8 LOADED! ONLY 1 t 00.00 OR BEST OF­................................................. ·········· p.m.
Marie, Love is a pregnant leprechaun. Us. FER..CALL MARILYN OR DUANE AF­NOTICES RIDERS NEEDED TO JACKSONVILLE Help me, I'm melting. TER 6:00 AT 684-3539 FL. AREA FOR SPRING BREAK VIA .... Beaton Boaton Beaton .... LOUISVILLE, NASHVILLE, ATLANTA. You can still JOin the Society for Creative Need ride for two to Boston or there­
CONGRATS TO THE BEST LOOKING VICE-PRESIDENT THIS SIDE OF

need rode to NYC or central Jersey area. CALL CHUCK AT 1816 OR JOHN AT Anachronism if you missed the meeting abouts for spring break. Call Colleen at 
RIVER FOREST II KNEW YOU'D DO IT.

can leave fri the t 2th after 1 0 AM please 18t8 last week. For onformation call Deirdre at 41-4424 or Jeb at 864! 
GOOD LUCK IN YOUR NEW POSITION. 

call Ellen at 41-5481 (smc) 80t3 HELP! Need ride to Exit 7 Ohio 'pike THIS WHOLE NEW WARDROBE NOW, JEFF JEFFERS FOR UGLY MOON
\ LOST/FOUND \ 
RIGHT?? I Love you, 

desperately need ride to east lansing. can WEEKEND call Steve t8t6 NICE GIRL DESPERATELY NEEDS ON CAMPUS. 
H.G.

leave thurs. the t 1 thor fri. the t 2th please RIDE WED. 3-10 TO EXIT 11 ALONG FOUND $40 00 on Friday Feb. 12. Call ca114t-57t2(smc) HELP! Need 1-3 rides to N Florida over OH-TURNPK. CALL NANCY AT 1282·· 3828 to claim. break. Rose 7978 Cindy 7966 THANXI Jeff "Moon" Jeffers for UMOC -ugly 
THANKS TO ALL THE NED Ill MARY I

There's a sale on grapefruits in.Waahlng­moon on campus. LOST A silver wrist watch with a blue face ton D.C.I Seriously, I need a ride to D.C. Need ride to POUGHKEEPSIE, NY for BAMBI, THANKS FOR THE WONDER­
PARTY-GOERS FOR MAKING MY B­DAY SO SPECIAL.RUMOR HAS IT THAT NED LAMEY SURVIVED THE 

and a broken watchband. Gives date in for spring break. Will share the usual. Call Spring Break. Can leave anytime after FUL BIRTHDAY PARTY, I HOPE WE 
both English and Spanish. Lost on 2/23 Donna at 284-4455. classes 3/10, return 3121,22,or 23. Will HAVE MANY MORE TOGETHER, YOUR Help!! Our ride fell through and we may be around noon near or inside O'Shag. share$$$ & Driving. Call Erin at x7515. ARE A PERFECT ANGEL, LOVE AL­stuck in the Midwest for break I If you have 
NIGHT -EVEN THE EXCITING RIDE 

Please call Jeff t 764 Need rode to Houston Texas. for spring WAYS, JIM HOME!!! THANKS ALSO TO MO, BUN­room for two fun-loving sun-worshopping NY, ANN, SLONE, MINERVA, AND THE
break. If you are headed in that direction RIDERS NEEDED: East on 1-80 to gorls headed for Tampa, Florida, please LOST: BLUE LOOSELEAF FOLDER IN please call Time at 1782. Conn/A! area. Call -3698: ask for Tim Jimbo, AMITYVILLE HORROR FOR BEING call 335t. We'll share drivong and ex­GALVIN AUDITORIUM ON 2/23 AFTER Thanks for beong my shoneshine. Let's penses.
SUCH GREAT FRIENDSII!CAN'T WAIT SAHLIN$ LECTURE. CONTAINED Desperately need a ride for two people to NEED Ride to Conn/Mass/A! area for look forward to no more clouds! Lot's of 
'TIL NEDIV MARYIIIII PARTY HEARTY 'TIL THEN! MARY 

NOTEBOOK AND PHOTO T NEGATIVES. Northern Jersey, right off Route 80. Will break. Will Share Expenses. Please Call love always and forever! MORRISON ... I WANT TO HAVE YOUR CALL BOB AT 3260. MATERIAL IS IM­share the usual. Call Mike at 118t. SMC 4785. Mare CHILDREN ... MEET ME AT GATE 4 AT PORTANT. THE ACC AT 7:30PM TONIGHTIII I'll NEED A RIDE TO JACKSON, MISSis­pesperately need ride to Phola. for sring 
MARY CRONIN, Happy Birthday! Even BRING THE LETTUCE! 
without your appendix you're a wonderful

Lost: MICROECONOMICS by Walter SIPPI FOR SPRING BREAK. CALL break, ask for Gary or Chris at 3223. Kathy, now that you are an RA what about 
Nocholson: on O'shag on Feb. 12. lffound, A.M.P. at 7933. the b~by? roomie!! Love, Nancy "TWO CAREER FAMIUES," A PANEL call Moke at x8649. Thos poor book needs RIDERS NEEDED to TOLEDO!BGSU DISCUSSION WITH FOUR COUPLES, its home. wanted: roder(s) along 1-80 West for sprong FRI. 3/S.CHRIS t771. ATTENTION: Two suit coats were acci­Hey Ed! We fit--WITH BRIEF PRESENTATIONS, DIS. break. Call Joe at 1626 or leave message dently swotched sometime durong the CUSSIONS AND QUESTIONS AND
1 Love You!!! FOUND: A Gold Chaon, woth Medal be­RIDE NEEDED FOR SPRING BREAK Lewos-Pangborn Formal last Saturday p.p. ANSWERS ABOUT LIFESTYLES AND tween Dillon and the Dining Hall Call1821 RIDE NEEDED to Dallas.TX or TO BALTIMORE, WASHINGTON D.C. noght. If you have the wrong one; please HOW CAREERS, MARRIAGE AND Ken. Shreveport, LA Please call289-8955 AREA CAN LEAVE THURSDAY WILL call386t. FAMILY CAN BE COMBINED, WILL BE SHARE COSTS. CAI.L DAVE 8795 THURSDAY AT 6:30P.M. IN THE STlJ. 
TO WHOEVER DECIDED MY Lost 1 box of 8 x 10 inch Kodak color film ARE YOU PLANNING TO LIVE IN LUS­Attention DENT AFFAIRS CONFERENCE ROOM, 
REFRIGERATOR PERSONAL WAS 1n the phone booth of the bus shelter. CIOUS, TROPICAL TANTALIZING NEED RIDE TO BUFFALO FOR BREAK; CARRIE LUEPKE WITTY, I WOULD APPRECIATE IT IF LE MANS HALL, SMC. Please return and make a photographer SOUTH BEND THIS SUMMER? I'M CAN LEAVE THE 11TH PLEASE CALL (Yes. that's Carrie Luepke, the Babe of 
YOU WOULD INVENT YOUR OWN PERSONALS AND NOT TAKE THE

smote again. Contact Bob at 234-2981. LOOKING FOR ONE FEMALE RAY AT 272-1684 South Quad) WATCH KAREN MIEDLAR DELIVER ROOMMATE TO SHARE A CAMPUS has JUSt been appoonted A.A. of Walsh! THE MOST INTERESTING SENIOR
CREDIT FOR OTHERS. RUMMING 
AWAY

LOST: Gray overcoat at PE-Stanford VIEW APT FROM JUNE TO AUG. CALL Need rode to NORTH JERSEY for break. What do you have to say for yourself, COMPREHENSIVE IN CHEMISTRY 
Formal Saturday night. If found, please PATTI AT 283-8472. RENT IS ONLY Share $$. Brian 3648 PICKLE?!? YOU'VE EVER SEEN...THURSDAY AT call Dave at 3596. $145 A MONTH. 12:15 PM IN THE SAINT MARY'S AHH... It's March on South Bend. 
Need a ride to DETROIT area thos Kathy Suplick os such a shy girlthat J won't SCIENCE HALL!!! SHE'S THE LOST: Tan overcoat at PE-Stanford For­DESPARATELY NEED TO BE RIDED IN weekend!! March 5-7 Please call Meghan even mention that she is now a pres­COOLEST CHEMIST AROUNDI!I 
The trees are budding, mal Saturday night. If found, please call LANSING ON THURS. THE 11TH OR 284-4796 tigoous A.A. I'll only say that the one and ..............
The croci are peekong through the earth 

The little squorrels are chasong theor nuts CALL 41·5-12 (SMC) Need riders to New Jersey that can leave thing that ever hit Walsh! THE FINEST IN FRESH, THICK CRUST 
Dave at 3596. FRIDAY THE 12TH (OBVIOUSLY) only BLOND BOMBSHELL is the best LYONS HALL FOOD SALES DEUVERS 
The wittle bunnoes are shaking theor fluffy 
tails

FOUND: THE KEY marked 152 in the Tues. March 9. Call Kevin at 1478 PIZZA TO ANY PLACE ON SOUTH 
Love is 1n the a1r...

library lounge after SLF last week. Con­HELP!! THREE PALE-FACED FEMALES Jim, Frank, and Craig QUAD FOR THE NOMINAL DEUVERY 
Hey wait! What am I saying, allthis white CHARGE OF 25 CENTSI CAU 1853

tact Dave Barber x8109. WILL BE ON THE WARPATH IF THEY NICE GIRL DESPERATELY NEEDS Thanks for coaching us onto the playoffs. 
sticky stuff has made me snowblind. PLEASE NOTICE: I lost a beoge fur­FLORIDA FOR BREAK THEY'LL ALONG OH-TURNPIKE. CALL NANCY Delivery proce oncludes services of one 
DON'T GET A RIDE TO TAMPA, RIDE WEDNESDAY 3-10 TO EXIT tt and congrats on your interhall voctory! SUIHHURS FROM 9:30 TO 111 p.s. 
Ryan

collared coat at the South dinong hall on SHARE DRIVING AND EXPENSES, SO AT 1282-·THANX! xxxxx LUSCIOUS LYONS DEUVERY LADY I 
2122/82. Coat of canvas-like mmatenal CALL THEM AT 3351 IF YOU HAVE XXX XXX Dearlkers,
and made by MAINE GUIDE. Any in­ROOM IN YOUR WAGONII RIDE NEEDED TO MPLS (EJINA) CAN XXX XXX WALKING IN GROUPS LARGER THAN Have a terrific borthdayy! 
formation leading to my gettong it back woll LEAVE THURSDAY MARCH 1 t IF YOU .xxxxxx THREES MAKES YOU LESS OPEN be rewarded. Please call Kevin at t t 03. I NEED RIDES FOR 3 PEOPLE AS CAN HELP--CALL CATHY AT 2955 ....XXX 
Best woshes from your bros in 4-b. FOR FELONIES. 

Thank you. CLOSE TO MAINE AS POSSIBLE FOR ....XXX BREAK MARK 3403 Need a ride to DE or Philly for Spring xxxxx cute real cute LOST a Silver Pearl Diamond Earingl Break. Call Cathy: 4687 SMC. DAYSLEFTTILLNYCI 
Hey C. G. Will you autograph our copy of yester­

Great Sentimental Value. If found call HELP! Need ride to N. VIRGINIA/D.C. HAVING NEIGHBORS WATCH YOUR 2643. area for break. Call Jim 1763. Need Roders Dallas. Auston. Spring Break. HOUSE IS A GOOD WAY TO KEEP
day's Observer? 
---Suote 404

Call Dan 272-t 684. Only a handful are known who can bear ot ROBBERS OUT 
A watch was found in the ACC Arena at a PROFESSOR NEEDS STUDENT He can't find a home. ·cause we all know 
recent basketball game. If rt's yours, PROGRAMMER EXPERT IN BASIC NEED RIDE TO & FROM DETROIT FOR the Dome So S.W. is gonna wear ot and SENIORS-MICHIGAN B-BALL TIX FOR Suzanne:
please call Dom at 3075 WITH KNOWLEDGE OF CPM OPERAT­BREAK. CALL RUSS AT 3373. tear it! Happy B-da y Stymoe and the fell a ·s March 7 GAME AT SILVERDOME Tix ................... ING SYSTEMS FOR MINI'S. WRITE PO available tst floor LaFortune, Wednes­
This personal contains NO ..rcaaml 

REWARD-LOST GOLD NECKLACE BOX 77, NO WITH BACK-GROUND Ride to MILWAUKEE thos weekend Mar You really are the sweetest and the day, March 3 7:30-8:30$6-Lower Level greatest/
WITH CROSS AT CAMPUS VIEW AND REFERENCE. 5-7 call Sue 2968 ATTENTION ALL ND MALES: That sexy POOL. SENTIMENTAL VALUE. Please red headed fox Kathy Rudd is celebrattng An Toatal Frame Stuffing Conteatl
There. now 11 os pront. Save thos forever. A Brussel Sprout 

call283-6954. Two fun-loving gals need ride to PHILLY­RIDE NEEDED TO PHILA FOR BREAK. her 20th birthday today! Stop by 218 PW ... Thars right/ We're out to bleak the The area for break. Please don't leave these CAN LEAVE AS EARLY AS WED 3/10. and gove her a borthday hug and koss!! Guiness Book of World Records frame gorls stranded in South Bend! We can WILL SHARE USUAL CALL FRANK AT Have fun Kath!!! The Ti' oss stuffing record (23). We're going to n11 the leave possibly as early as Wednesday af­3282 frames of SIMON with the caricatures
Summer programs: Ireland, Scotland, London, Parle. May tlhJune17. Parle,

ternoon (the 1Oth) We will share dnving, Dear Collleen: and names of as many Oomers and expenses and provode munchies!" NEED 2 RIDERS TO CONNECTICUT ... o.k. so Bolly the Worm gives the frog a Smickers as possible... Did you ever
FOR RENT 
Germany, Swlterland, Italy. June 1~ July 14; Courses available In bualneaa 
Please call Kwicki at 3773 FOR BREAK! LEAVING FRIDAY, knapsnack with the goods. (O.K .. I know I want to be in pictuTes? Well, we can put MARCH 12. CALL BRIAN AT 8394. saod that everyone thonks the frog os The you in cartoons. Everyone gets in who
and economics, history, Italian, FOUR ANDFiVEBEDROOMHOUSES Please I need a rode to Mansfield, OH area Couson's bagman, but the mob uses sends 1) Name as you want it to appear, 
philosophy, sociology, and theatre. 

For information call Prof. A. Black 4948 YEAR. CALL 234-9364. weekPnd -March 5. Call Carrie at 8031. rode back to the beloved Dome on March anymore, nght?) so anyway. so the Worm campus mail to: 
AVAILABLE FOR NEXT SCHOOL or Exit 7 on the Ohio turnpike -for this I'll be stranded at f'urdue of I don't get a knapsacks now cause nobody uses bags 2)Addreu, and 3)Photo (as by FREE 
(smc) 

21. If you can help, call Peg at 1274 tells the frog that he's gotta make the ex­Stull Simon TWO GOOD SIX BEDROOM HOUSES, Ride needed to DAYTON, OHIO for change wolh the Phone Man down on the Were we supposed to be tmpressed?? BoxQ SIDE BY SIDE. 321, 325 N. TAYLOR. spnng break. I can leave any time Need ride to FT. LAUDERDALE for sprong docks... REPLY-IF YOU HAVE ANY RESPECT The Obaerver 
FOR THE FIGHTING IRISH!! 

272-2720. PLEASE call Donna at 6771 break. Will pay usual. Call Mike 1182 (more later ... ) P. S. This is, hke, loT real. 
I 
I 
L 

Wednesday, March 3, 1982-page 7 

Garry Trudeau 
Campus 

• 
i 2:15p.m. -Lenten Mass, Father Griffin, C.S.C., Basement ofLaFortune 

•2-5 
p.m. -Tax Program, LaFortune Student Center 

•4 
p.m. -FUm, "Keeper ofthe Fire", Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art, Sponsored by Cooperative Department of Communication and Theatre 

•4:20 
p.m. -Colloquium, "Absolute K·x-ray energy measurements at NBS", Dr. Ernest Kessler, National Bureau of Standards, 118 Nieuwland Science Hall, Sponsored by Physics Department 

•4:30 
p.m.-Meet-Your-Major, Psychology, 200 Hagger Hall, Sponsored by ALSAC 

•4:30 
p.m.-Meet-Your-Major, Communication and Theatre, Washington Hall Auditorium, Sponsored by ALSAC 

•7, 
9, II p.m. -Film, "The Birds", Haggar Hall Auditorium, Sponsored by Psychology Club, $1 ad­mission 

•7 
p.m. -Meet-Your-Major, American Studies, 331 O'Shaughnessy Hall, Sponsored by ALSAC 

•s 
p.m.-Meet-Your-Major, Anthropology, 331 O'Shaughnessy Hall, Sponsored by ALSAC 

•s
p.m. -WSND-FM, New York Philharmonic 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Competition Among Pressure Groups and the Political Distribution of Income" 'Dr. Gary Becker, University of Chicago, 122 Hayes-Healy, Sponsored by Economics Department 

•8 
p.m. -Seminar, "Issues in Medical Ethics: Test Tube Babies", Fr. Edward Malloy, II 7 O'Shaughnessy Hall, Sponsored by Thomas More Society 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, journalism, Professor Micheal 

S. 
Schudson, University of California, San Diego, Century Center, Sponsored by Professions in American History Lecture Series 

•8:30 
p.m. -Speaker, Fellowship of Christian Athletes, A.D. Gene Corrigan, Walsh Hall Base­ment, All are invited 

•8:45 
p.m. -Meet-Your-Major, Government and International Studies, I 04 O'Shaughnessy Hall, Sponsored by ALSAC 


T.V. Tonight 


Simon 
WO TO ONE. ...

1CAN'T 'CHIEI/fW£ LD::.I ,SMTfl~ 
\ 



)eb Cashin 
1 5UftU:E \HIS Mti\NS \liE SHifF ';\ON'T &EI 'DIE (j:)I'\US Tf\IP \D 
1\R.Uf:il, ::.\R? 



24 Lose 
freshness 25 Went wrong 26 Canaanite 
god 
27 Of Old Norse poems 
28 Metrical 
loot 29 Preach 30 Fasten 
firmly 32 Evert of tennis 34 American 
poet 36 Meagerly 37 Erica the 
author 39 Step 
proudly 40 Give up 42 Public 
opinion 43 White sale 
goods 45 Shaver 46 Eskers 47 Western 
campus: 
abbr. 48 Math branch 49 Kind of 
cotton 51 Bard's river 52 Antre 54 Born: Fr. 55 McGrew or 
Duryea 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Mechanical teeth 5 Sped 10 Footless 
creature 14 Reputation 15 Notched, 
as leaves 16 Niels Bohr, 
lor one 17 Nil 18 Imperil 20 Tuber 21 Soprano 
Lily 22 Staggered 23 Be in store 
lor 25 Abba­26 Kindly 28 Urging one 31 Co• 1found 32 Tra tsport 33 Coqau­35 Subterra­

nean way 36 Radiance 37 Coffee 38 A Taylor 39 Young 
codfish 40 Pine 

fruits 41 Particular 43 Duration 44 Sea eagles 45 Line of 
hills 46 Amount 

produced 49 Glass sheet 50 Resinous 
substance 53 Examine 55 Singing 
star 56 Dismounted 57 Clunker 
of a car 58 Black Sea 
gull 59 Craze 60 Measures 
of time 61 Island goose 
DOWN 1 Homey 2 Greek 
theaters 3 Eat glut· tonously 4 Marquee 
notice 5 Answer 6 Common 
contraction 7 Talks 
fondly 8 Sixth sense 9 City In 
Michigan 10 Term in arithmetic 11 Coal scuttle 12 Eleven, 
in Lille 13 Feat 19 Prepare 21 Youthful 
attendant 
7:30p.m. 
8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. !O:OOp.m. 
!0:30p.m. ll:OOp.m. 
11:30p.m. 
12:00a.m. 12:30a.m. 
16 The Muppct Show 22 Family Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 46 Oral Rubens 16 Real People 22 CBS Special: Ringling Brothers Circus 28 Greatest American Hero 34 In Concen At The Met 46 21st Century News 22 The Two of Us 46 The Renewed Mind 16 Facts OfUfc 22 CBS Movie: "Desperate Lives" 28 The Fall Guy 46 Today With Lester Sumrall 16 Love, Sidney 16 Quincy 28 Dynasty 46 Calvary Temple 34 Oversight 46 Michiana Today 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 The Dick Cavell Show 46 Praise The Lord 16 Tonight Show 22 CBS Movie: "Detour to Terror" 28 ABC News Nlghtline 34 Captioned ABC News 28 Love Boat 46 Lester Sumrall Teaching 16 Late Night With David Letterman 
• 
.. 


Tuesday's Solution 
M'O'R A L.'A S ~PlSWE T C H E R 0 0 E. P 0 R T.S H 0 0 ~~!-¥ E T H E 0 A Y.T I T 0 ~-ET~~0
0 A Y. T E N E T 
II!! P E L E E K--1 EM8AR INMATE 8ARINIS ED.HER 8 R A Til 8 R A I o• T EAR E R 1• A L.NE. PHASE D Y N A M 0 D R-A
D E 01
II..S M I T H UN I 

TOTED.ANITA ~~ up 0 N.8 R I GIH T I D E A 
BARD-AERO  EVENT  
A L M s•A M A T  S E N S E  
3/5/82  

....................................................................
~ 
v ~~ 
Morris Civit.; Auditoriu March 24 Spm $9.50 &$10.50 Reserved Student Union Ticket Office 
Good seats are still available. uui:.a:a available from main eire 

Wednesdavs are wildat 
BE THERE FOR THE WEDNESDAYNITEDRAFT 
SPECIAL ANDOUR FEATURED IMPORT .... MOLSON . 
GOLDEN ALE!! 

• 
~norts 
Senior walk-ons Gary Grassey (left) and Marc Kelly each scored layups during Notre Dame's 86-56 drub­bing of Northern Iowa last night at the ACC. Kelly utilized his "Doctor]. move" to score on a fastbreak. 
Over Panthers 


Seniors contribute to Irish victory 
Grassey, on the other band, ended his longest scoring drought of tbe season (four minutes) by taking a court-length pass from Kelly to score with three seconds remaining. (photos by]obn Macor) 
By CHRIS NEEDLES 
AssoctateSportsEdttor 
Who says you can't have fun when you're 8-16? 
After all the frustrations, narrow defeats and embarrassing blowouts that have made this such a see-saw season, Notre Dame threw a party last night at the ACC for its three departing seniors, at the expense of Northern Iowa. 
It didn't really matter that the Irish blew away the Panthers, 86-56, or that they shot an ACC record 67 percent from the floor in the process. 
It didn't even matter that John Paxson scored a career-high 27 points ("He could have had 57," said Irish Coach Digger Phelps), hitting 12-of-14 from the floor and extend­ing his consecutive free throw string to 23. 
None of this mattered, for this night belonged to senior captain Mike Mitchell, and his classmates Marc Kelly and Gary Grassey, each of whom were playing their last games ever in the ACC. 
For Mitchell, it was an upbeat farewell to the Irish fans after an up­and-down four-year career that saw him tear apart the cartilage in both knees, sit out substantial portions of two seasons, and then defy his doc­tor's prognostications to come back and have his best season ever. 
"Mike Mitchell is very special to me,'' said Phelps. "Here's a guy whom the doctors said would never play basketball again. I made him captain because I thought he was a good leader and a mature influence on the team -and he has definitely lived up to that. 
"That was a fun game," said Mitchell, who finished with 1 0 points and a team-leading five assists before leaving to a one-minute standing ovation. "No strategy in­volved at all. We just went out and hatdaball. 
"Coming to Notre Dame was the best experience I could ever have. I learned a lot about life apart from the basketball court. If I had to do it all over again, injuries and all, I would do it the exact same way." 
Marc Kelly pumped in a season­high three points off the bench, including an awesome coast-to­coast reverse layup that reminded some ofJulius Erving, and others of Danny Ainge. 
"How'd you like my 'Doctor J' move?" Kelly asked rhetorically af­ter the game. "I was so pumped, I felt 
like I could dunk it " But the curtain .call belonged to 
Gary Grassey. After missing four straight shots, and with the clock reading :1I, it looked like Grassey would be thwarted in an attempt to 
score once more for the home folks -that is, until Panther Coach Jim Berry made his donation to the NO athletic endowment. 
He called his defense back down the floor, and earmarked ~free layup to Grassey with three seconds left. Sports Information described it this way: 
"Grassey takes a court-length p d ·bbl b it t 

ass, rt es once, es a es,
pumps with no defenders and banks shot off glass six inches above rim through center of hoop for a pair, improving his season scoring average by 67 percent." 
The only question was, why didn't he dunk? "Hey, I just wanted to put the bleep in," said Grassey. "H they were giving me a layup, I was gonna take it." 
And Digger's reaction? "I just hope tht. FBI doesn't watch a tape of this game," he said. 
Yes, it was that kind of night. 
Trainingperiodconcludes; Bengal Bouts set to begin 
ByWILLHARE 
Sports Writer 
For almost seven weeks now, over 60 fighters have been training in the boxing room of the ACC for the 1982 version of the Bengal Bouts. And the show is about to begin. 
Sunday afternoon marks the first day of opening round matches in this year's tournaroent. The winners will proceed to the semi-finals to be held next Tuesday evening, with the title fights (to be taped by NBC television as usual) taking place on Thursday night, March 1 L 
John Donovan, returning 155-lb. class champ and co-president of the Boxing Club, states, "It's the best group ofboxers in the four years I've been here." 
Indeed. Seven out of ten cham­pions return along with four or five runner-ups for what should be the most competitive and skillful bouts in years. 
Returning are Mike Martersteck ( 142-lb. class), Tom Bush ( 145lbs.), Jim Mladenik ( I 50 lbs. ), Donovan, Greg Brophy ( 165 lbs. ), Mike Burke ( 177 lbs. ), and heavyweight Mike Walsh. Senior Tim McCormick is ex­pected to challenge Walsh. 
Burke points out, "We've had a smaller number of fighters this year because the quality has been so much higher overall." 
Slightly less than half of the field are novice boxers. Starting Sunday at 
I:30 p.m., fights will go on for most of the day as the field is narrowed down. There are ten weight classes and there will be either three or four fights in each class in the opening round. 

"There usually are not good fights until the finals," says Donovan, "but not this year. The opening round and the semifinals will be better than ever. The group is in better shape and is more physically fit than in past years." 
Surprisingly, the Boxing Club is entirely run by students. This year's co-presidents are Donovan, Burke and Dickie Hillsman. They organize the training as well as the pairings. 
Rich Hunter, who coordinates the finances for the Bengals, states, "They (the fighters) run their own club with the help of adult supervi­sion. They do their own coaching." Among the adult coaches are Jack Mooney, who has been affiliated with the Bengal Bouts for over 35 years, and Mike Suddes. 
"We have a dual goal. First of all, we want to put on a good show for the people," points out Hunter. "We want to present the best of the boxing program we can possibly present. Part of this goal is to make sure the kids that do get on NBC do a credible job and show themselves as good boxers, which they have done in the past. 
"We also would like to raise a sig­nificant amount of money to send to the missions in Bangladesh. This is such an important endeavor, a worthwhile activity." 
Weigh-ins will take place tomor­row evening and pairings are due to be announced in Friday's edition of The Observer. 
The starting time of the semi­finals and finals will be 7:30p.m. 
------------~ 
Wednesday, March 3, 1982 -page 8 

Final curtain closes on ND basketball team 
CLOSING CURTAIN -The Irish basketball team closes out its season this weekend with back-to-back road games against Dayton and Michigan . 
The Irish hold an 11-6 all-time advantage over Dayton but have only won two games at the UD arena in their last six appearances. Two years ago, Notre Dame upended the Flyers 62-54 as Kelly Tripucka scored 22 points, Tracy Jackson netted 17 and Orlando Woolridge grabbed 16 rebounds. Two years before that, at the end of the 1977-78 regular-season campaign, the Flyers caught the Irish one week after its stunning 65-59 upset of Marquette and one week before the NCAA tournament and handed them a 66-59 defeat. 
Digger Phelps is 7-3 against the Flyers, but has only won twice on the Dayton home court, in 1980 and 1976. 
Notre Dame's luck against Michigan has been anything but Irish. The Wolverines own an 8-5 advantage over the Irish, and are one of only seven Irish foes this season who boast a winning record against Notre Dame. The others are Indiana ( 29-16 ), Kentucky ( 29-15 ), Missouri (2-0), UCLA_( 18-11) and new additions Murray St~te ( 1-0) 

and SetOn Hall ·( 1-0). ----· -· -­The Wolverines have won five straight games over Notre Dame, including wins in the 1974 and 1976 NCAA tournaments. Digger Phelps has never beaten Michigan, dropping three regular season games in addition to the two tournament contests. In their last meeting, Michigan edged the Irish, 62-59, before 37,283 fans in the Silverdome. HOMECOMING -Both games this weekend will mark homecomings for three Irish basketballers. Junior guard John Pax­son will make the second and last trip of his career to hometown Dayton on Saturday. Paxson scored five points in a 22-minute ap­pearance against Dayton as a freshman. Barry Spencer and Tim Andree will return to their Motor City home for Sunday's contest. AN UPSETTING THOUGHT-This basketball season will be only the second in the last six years in which the Irish have not beaten the number-one team in the country during February or March. Last year, Orlando Woolridge's desperation jumper at the buzzer handed top-ranked Virginia its first loss of the year, 57-56. On February 27, 1980, the Irish upset DePaul 78-76 in double overtime to blemish the Blue Demons' 25-0 record and number-one ranking. On February 26, 1978, the Irish erased a 39-25 halftime deficit to subdue the defending national champion Marquette Warriors 65-59. And on March I, 1977, Notre Dame handed the Dons of San Fran­cisco their first loss in 29 consecutive games by a 93-82 count. All four ofthose recent upsets were Irish home games, three in the ACC and the latest in the Rosemont Horizon. QUICK ON THE ORAW-Inside Sports magazine has prepared its list of 1981 sports bests, and Notre Dame can stake a claim to both the first and second best Last-Minute Plays of1981. However, there's good news and bad news. The good news is that 1979 Notre Dame graduate Joe Montana's touchdown pass to Dwight Clark to beat Dallas in the NFC Cham­pionship Game was tabbed the best last-minute play t ofthe year. The bad news is that BYU basketball star Danny Ainge's drive the length of the court to beat Notre Dame 51-50 in the NCAA East Regional was the second best last-minute play of the year. THE NUMBERS GAME -The same magazine also reviews the final Associated Press basketball polls of the past I 0 years (up to 1981 ). In the past I 0 years, only UCLA has been ranked in the fmal Top I 0 more years than the Irish. UCLA placed in the Top I 0 in nine ofthe last I 0 years, finishing as a runner-up in the NCAA tournament the only year it was not ranked. Notre Dame and Marquette have each been ranked in the final Top I 0 seven times in the last ten years, with the Irish making the list six times in a row until this season. Notre Dame's best Top 10 finish in that span was in 1979, when it was ranked fourth and lost to eventual NCAA titlist Michigan State 80-68 in the finals of the Mideast Regional. In 1977, when the Irish made their first and only trip to the Final Four, they were ranked lOth in the final poll. Incidentally, the magzine points out that the NCAA champion has ranked in the Top 10 in each ofthe last 10 years, while the runner-up has been missing from the Top 10 only twice. PULL UP A CHAIR -Tickets for the 1982 Notre Dame basketball banquet are now available. The annual affair is scheduled for Mon­day, March 8 in the Athletic and Convocation Center. Cocktails are slated to begin at 6:30p.m. with dinner at 7:30p.m. Tickets cost S 16.50 each and are available at the ACC ticket office. ANOTHER TURNAROUND -Following Notre Dame's heralded mid-season turnaround, when it won 5-of-7 games in the ACC, the Irish have performed another reversal oflate, losing 5 of their last 6. However, they did win their first road game of the season, 59-55, at South Carolina and have two more road games to close ·out the season. RANKINGS WARS-The Notre Dame women's basketball team which is in the midst ofa four-game losing streak, dropped from firs~ to second in national scoring defense rankings, allowing 52.4 points­per-game. The team is also rated IIth in· field goal percentage of­fense at 49.4 percent. Mary DiStanislao's recruiting su<;cess is still shining, as a freshman has led the Irish in scoring and rebounding in 20 of their 24 games this year. 

