----------~ 
~ -------------------------------------------~--------~------~------------------------------­
I 
Wildcats-page 1 0 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·-------­



PACEreport released after two year \Vait 
By CAROL CAMP advising and career counseling" are SeniorStaffReporter stressed in the ~ection detailing teaching and research. The neces­
After more than two years of ef­sity of developing an excellent fort, the long-awaited PACE report program in doctoral studies and was released by University Provost research also is emphasized. Timothy O'Meara today. Other are~ pertaimng t') teaching 
The PH:E (Priorities and Com­and research indudr the i,!ppoint­mitment' tor Excelkncc) rcport is ment of.I Commit:( e for Continumg the c·ulm Illation of th,· attempt by Education to a~sist in the develop­O'MLtra and hi· Advi~"ry Commit­ment of new programs and a com­tee 111 analvze ~ ·I as~ ..,s the major prehensive review of 'arious problcm~ con! uin· till l·niver­academic centers and the library. sity in tht: next ,,·n yt .r~. As far as the library is concerned, 
The report has been submined to the report calls for the implementa­University Pn:~ill.:nt bther tion of the tlve-year development Theodore Hesburgh and the BoarJ program which will include the ofTrustees for consideration. automation of facilities, doubling 
The report is prefaced by a state­the prcsent S6.2 million library en­ment describing the University's dowment by 1990 and improving its 

House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill ofMassachu­long range goals, whkh is dctined by existing collection~ setts, right,faces reporters in his office on Capitol thn.:t: maJor themes: excelling "as a ln describing the faculty, the Hill Monday. O'Neill vowed that House miversity in thc full sensc of the PACE report reaffirms the Univer­Democrats would use the lame-duck session of ·vord, anin:ly engaging in tcaching ~irv's goal of "a faculty composed of Congress tp press for an economic recovery aand research;" maintaining "our a diversity of individuals concerned package. With O'Neill, from left, are Bill Alexan-Catholic identity;" and remaining with value~ but one on which com­
"conscious ofand faithful to our mis­mitted Catholics predominate." The sion in all our actions and deci­repon stresses the importance of sions." the role of the Holy Cross order in Areas analyzed in the report tne University community, in addi­1.clude tcachin;.: .mll n scarch, the ..1n to reemphasizing University 

Eyes job bill 
:acuity, the student hod,·. and sup­policy ofaffirmative ....:t ion in hiring. P<lrt functions within the llnivtrsity. Whilt: endorsing thc endowed 

WASHINGTON (AP)--President Congress should be to complete ac­On Monllay, Rtagan hall spoken Each of these aspech of university professorship program, the report Reagan, facing stiff congressional op­tion on 10 appropriations bills, enthusiastically in Los Angeles about li,,: are discus~ed in dct;ul within the calls for the University to consider position and fearful of losing next passage of a bipartisan $5.5 billion advancing the tax cut from July 1 to c .n-text of tht tifn -page report. I , ring its own profes~rs for pres­year's tax cut completely, plan to finance highway, bridge and Jan. 1, contending it would be a The report will nta111Ish the basis . ious chair positions. The report abandoned any intention yesterday transit repairs through a nickel-a­strong stimulant to the economy. for University pohcy tor the comlllg :td JOCates raising the standards for ofasking Congress to advance the ef­gallon increase in the federal But after hearing arguments from decade. taculty promotions and tenure. The fective date of the reduction from gasoline tax and his enterprise zone the GOP leadership yesterday morn· Endorsements of a "l.Jniversity improvement of faculty salaries is July toJanuary. legislation that would provide tax ing, Reagan said he was concerned Curriculum Committee to study the also part ofthe report's goal. 
Reagan told reporters after incentives for industry to locate in that such a move would increase the overall structure of the under­Topics addressed in the arta of meeting with GOP congressional depressed inner city areas. already large federal budget deficit. graduate curriculum, the gentral the student body include projec­leaders that "we're not going to "Our tax program, along with the But to delay the cut pastJuly 1, he education requirt:mt:nts. the rolt: of tions for enrollment. student aid, make a push" for moving up the highway program, the enterprise said, would be "directly opposed to philosophy and thtology in the and student life (i.e., hall life, scheduled tax cut. Instead, he said, zone initiative and our efforts to general education rcquirtments, 


Reagan doubts early tax cut approval 

what is needed to restore the he will concentrate on resisting any hold down spending are essential to economy." academic standards, and academic See PACE, page 4 efforts to delay or evencancel the 10 restoring a healthy America," the percent tax rate t reduction. president said. 
"We agreed that our most impor­He said the highway bill would tant objective for this final session is "stimulate several hundred Erwin A. Salk to protect the cuts that are already in thousand new jobs in the hard-hit place," Reagan said shortly before construction and related in­departing for a five-day trip to Latin dustries." 
Military budget cuts stressed 
America The president said he was Asked if he thought his third-year opposed to another S5 billion job­ily SCOTT HARDEK h1 rcallocatt: spending from dctl:nsc liw1't hu,· it from us, thcy'll buy it cut can be preserved, Reagan creating program proposed Monday andPATSAIN to ci,·iitan ncnls. according to a top from someone else or produce it replied: "I think it can be saved; I'm by House Democratic leaders. .\'eu·s Stajf :mcrnatiunal business ext:cutive. thcmsei\'es. Maybe if we trade to· sure ofit." "By the time that got into place, it !:rwin A. Salk, prc~kknt ofan indt·­gcthcr, we won't tight." In addition to saving the tax cut, would ignore all the things that are In order for go\'ernments and pentlent mortgagc linn and t{>Undt:r Hc citcd the possibility of the the president said the Republican happening to the economy and it husincss to meet the necds of thc of Husincss Exccutivc .\love, spoke I :nitt:d Statcs and the Soviets doing leadership agreed major GOP would be self-defeating," he said of p::oplc in <he world. the l'nitt:d at a prcss confcrent·c and gavc S I o h,illion worth of trade by 1985 priorities in the current lame-duck the Democrats' plan. ~t:ltt·, and thc Sovit:t l"nion will han: sc\'eral lectures \TStt:rday about tht: as an t:xample of the magnitude of dangcrs of a heavy military budget. <radt.· iK:wecn the two countries. ln hb evening lecture entitled Sa!k s;;.id thc Soviets major con­
Turns selfin "Enli!~l.tened Sclf-lntercst in tht: cern is the rcliability of contracts \'udcar Agc: A Busincssman's with American business. According \It\\ ... S;!lk addresst:d the prohlcms to Salk. several contracts between



Tylenol suspect arrestedin L.A. 
many businesses and governments the two nations have been cancelled are facing around the world. ir. the past btcause of pol'ticallyAuthorities-who searched Master-are looking at. They will not all turn
LOS Y\<iELES (AP) --A mec­Salk recently returned from a joint motivattd American sanctions. 
hanic wamcd for questioning in the son's rooms in Chicago in October out to be people who say things they tra,Je council in Moscow which is Salk said the "clout" of big busi­found two Tylenol capsules and two haven't done. There will be one who
Extra-Strct>,..:tn Tylenol poisoning comprised of somt of the highest ness and the public outcry m•Jst 
death~ w ..... 1r~~· ·ed yt:~terday in Los bottles labeled poison. committed the cyanide killings." ranking American and Soviet force governments to decreaseAsked if he had someone specific
Angeles ann r • .: contacted fBI businessmen. 
defenst spending. Salk strongly tm­
in mind, Fahner said, "Yes I do, but I
In Chicago, Illinois Attorney
agents voluntanly, authorities said. Salk said tht success of the coun­phasi:.:t:d tl.at defense spending is 
-,
will not comment further."
Authorities in Illinois were not General T~ rone Fahner said at a cil was 1111portant, and he was disap­"non-prvductive"and is debilitatingconti:rt·nce Masterson 
Fahner said authorities added a
labeling him a suspect but said he news that pointed by the lack of press tu ar1 cumomy in that it takes away 
federal charge of flight to avoid ;.
w.ts someone thcy wanted to talk to. "made statements to various people coverage. Salk cittd the new con­mont:y from the privatt sector. He that he was involved in the cyanide prosecution on the marijuana
1\.evinJohn Masterson, 35, walked trans negutiated at the council and said the monty could be used more
charge in order to bring the FBI ino
into the FBI office in West Los An-killings ...." But he also charac­the ,i-1 existing joint business productively, which would producethe search.
geles on Monday afternoon and said terized Masterson as "apparently the with Soviets ex­
ventures the as morc jobs.he was willing to be interviewed kind of person who says a lot of 
Hoos said he did not know why 
amples oftht council's importance. Salk indicated that defense spend­about the Chicago-area poisonings, things that are not true or that he Masterson came to the FBI office, 
The council wa~ the only evt:nt ing ofthe United States was especial­
nor would he comment on what
said FBI spokesmanJohn Hoos. does not mean. He is not a suspect 
that was not cancelled due to the ly dttrimental to its economy
Masterson said during interviews.
. . . he is someone we want to talk to
Masterson was questioned, death of Soviet leader Leonill because of the policies of the Pen­
"We interviewed him as a possible
detained overnight, then turned because ofthe things he said." 
Brtzhnt\'. tagon in giving out defense con­
suspect in the Tylenol case," Hoos
over £O Los Angeles police, who ar­Fahner, spokesman for the multi­Salk Oj)posed the trade sanctions tracts. He cited the recent estimate
said. Asked whether Masterson was
reMed him yesterday at FBI head­agency task force investigating the plact:d on the Soviets that were of David Stockman which indicates quarrcrs on an outstanding warrant killings, said Masterson was not their still considered crucial to the 
lifteJ rtcclltly. that there is currently a S30 billion 
from lllin• .. -. on an unrelated matter, best lead. "We need the Sovkts more than Hoossaid. "We have a number of people we See SUSPECT, page 3 
they need us," he said. "lfthe Soviets See SALK, page 4 
---·----------------------------~ 
-----------------~·----------·-·----~-·--------~----­
------------------------------~------~~-------...~~~~----~----~~------------------~----------~-----,.~.---~~---------------~------------------

NewsBrieb 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
A female Notre Dame student was the victim otan attempted rape after being forced into a car on U.S. 33 near the campus about I :30 p.m. Sund:!y, C\lm·. 21. The incident was reported to Roseland and South Len<.! ro1ice im'llediately and University offi­cials were informed Tuesday, '\iov L.:,. '!'he woman was walking along U.S. 31 on the sidewalk at the via~'uct al:.out two blocks south of St. joseph's High School wht.•1 th<: c!river nf a car stopped to ask directions. The driver graubet! the woman, torcing her into the car while she leaned inside the c;.r tn louk :•t a map. The man drove to Roseland where he a~~aulted th~ ~tud..:llt, injuring her shoulder, arm, and hip area before she was able to esc:!pe from the car. The woman sought help from a Roseland family who contacted the police. -The Observer 
Dean ofStudentsJames Roemer ha~ announced that in accordance with the policy recommendations of the OSHA Central Committee of the University, tbe use of natural evergreen trees and/or branches of same •s prohibited on campus buildings because they dry easily and are extremely tlammahle. The commit­tee suggests the use oft1reprovfartilicial trees and trimmings where such Christmas decoration~ are de~;ireli. This policy remains in effect from previous years. Tilue arc otner traoitional decorations at Christmas time which corstltute inc;eased lire hazards, such as candles and Christmas light"<. C•re =tnd <ti,cwt.on must be used by all members of the University' Ol•ll••••lllt: .·~ '<, l:ow and where such decorations are used. -The UIJ:;ene. 
A Breen-Phillipshall monitor looked out the window at 3:10a.m. Thursday morning and ,aw two young black males steal­ing bikes between B-P and Farley. A chase ensued when one of the suspects, aged 16, was apprehended at the Athletic and Convocation Center after a briefstruggle. The suspect was holding a bag contain­ing bolt cutters. The security report lisb t'hO studcnb as complain­rants in the case. Securitv ~till has a c;,ntlscatcd bike which is registered in Batavia, N.Y. Two st ll'lcnh iolformcd the monitor ofthe thefts and assbted in the cooperative effort to capture the thiefs. Security urges students to .:heck the hike rat.ks often, even ifthey do not ride frequently.-The Ob,;ervcr 
The Isis Gallery will hold an organizational meeting Thursday at 6 p.m. in the Old Isis Gallery, located in the Southwest corner ofthe Old Fieldhouse. The Isis Gallery is a student art gallery. Anyone interested in exhibition opportunities, public relations work, or gallery techniques are e•Kouraged to attend. Bring your enthusiasm and ideas. Refreshments will be served. -The Observer 
Weary divers rcsteJ !)etorc resuming their search of a flooded MX missile test sh~tt t<>r twt• 'llorc victi.~ls ofa weekend flash fire in the underground cha.nber. Tllt. butii..:s oftW<• workers already h01ve been recovered from the shart. irwLJu,)o; ·11:c !JOdy recovered by divers .\londay n1ght and tal:en 10 .· hllll"• •" home in nearby Manche~ter tor pt>sltive identitication ""''-~ 'ir l'o•ce Col. Charles T. Ackerman. "The body is presumed t<, L..: <Jill" of the three Aerojet (Strategic Propulsion Co.) employet.s who were working in the bot­tom ofthe test cell when a tire erupted," he said. The blaze Saturday, fed by an estimated ~0;000 pounds of solid rocket fuel, raged through the cell where the four workers were cleaning up debris from an explosion I 0 days earlier. Sixteen people were hurt during 
the battle to put out the fire. Authorities want to remove as much water as possible before the divers continue their ~earch, he said. Pumping at the shaft was continuing. and about I 0 feet of water remained in the 250-foot facility. -AP 
"Centipede"and ''Donkey Kong" have 
come to the rescue ofSanjose High Sc~ool, 'hhcre students lin up at electronic battlefields and thch coins tm holes in the school budget. The video arcade games were placed in the school three weeks ago as an experiment to raise money and h·•,·e proved a success. Yester­day, teen-agers lined up out~ide RGOI'' 56 at the downwwn school to prove their skills at the popular "Donkey Kqn~." 'Vars," "Phoenix," "Circus" and "Kiss" games. Tht: priroH: mover behin·J the project, Assistant Princial 0: ,Tn (;en•e!C;l, ~!(:cL•• J the experiment a success and b writing a report to the ~dH''" i>("'ro recommending that the beeping, buz:zing machine~ be made a !)crmanent addition to the school. After arranging with a Jca!t:r w split protlts, Ms. Gernreich suggested the video games as a w:ty of getting the finan­cially pressed school some ofthe money that had tilled coin boxes at amusement arcades and convenience stores. "The state is not fun­ding schools properly," Ms. Gernreich sai t d. In three weeks, the school's share of the video game receipts totaled about S200, the start of a new money supply for such school need~ a:-. athletic supplies, redecorating the student union and plantmg more trees, 
she said. -AP 

Cloudy today and rather windywith ~ 4o 
percentchance ofrain. Highs in upper 50s to near 60. Breezy tomght with a 50 percent chance of rain. Very mild. Lows in low 50s. Very windy tomorrow and unseasonably warm with a chance ofshowers. 
Highs in mid 60s. -AP 

Wednesday, December ll, 1982-page 2 
Broadening one's horizons. 
~ince as~umir.~ <he position of Executive New~ Editor at TiJP Uhserve1; I've heard some interestin~ comment~ 
"Dzierlzic? In the nv.n department' Why'" 

"What doe~ he know about news? I thought all he c~red ai:.Jl!t was sport:-.." 
"Will he stiil run Bookstore B;l~ketball?" 
I must adm't, I've co.1sidered all of these que~tions. 

The decision tv ~wi:ch from the sports department to the news dep;;rtl~1.:~11 was not an easy one. "Sports arc }"(>Ur !ik," people have told me. "You live and die for No!~e Dame teams. Why get out of it'" 
Those people hav1.. a point. In only a year and a half at The Observer, I've been fortunate enough to get to know Digger Phelps, \lary DiStanblao, Gerr~ fau:-.t, Moo~c Krause, (iene Corrigan and several others. I've interviewed countless other sport~ personalitie~, and I've traveled to ~everal different cities. 
So wh)' thL ~.wttch' 
For all of the rc:t~o:~~; 1;.m.J a:,ove, that's why. 
Sports, muced, u•er" n~:; lift-. 

l'vc l:.cen :: \.Juc Da•.le 'tuJcn~ tor nearly two and a half years. 1 n1il recent!,·. 1 w:ts cheating myself l wa~ concentrating so l':t•cn o:1 tne sports aspect of life un­der tht: Dome th..n I wa~ mis­sing a lut. 
DavidDziedzic 
Executive News Editor Inside Wednesday 

buses. I guess everyone wanteJ to go along for the ride. 
What the revelers failelil t<J COibiller w~ the possible damage that c0u;d !>e tuone trJ the buses. Transpo, however, d•dP't hrge<, arlll HU\'" ::umeont! owes them 5824.75. 
FatherJohn van Wotvlear, Yic:: .>resident for Student Affairs, asked 'itudcm ilody t're~ident Lloyd Burke how the bill should i>e paid. In fatner Van'~ opinion, the stu­dents shoul~l pay th<: <)II!. 
Burke, on the 0ther hand, lltsagrees. He ~uggested that the bill be charged to the athletic department. He can't believe that with "at least S I million in televbion money this year, they're arguing about S82-i.""'5." 
So the Student Senate passed a re~oluuon encourag­ing students to mail 12 cents to ~tudent Government to pay tor the bill. The wording of the 
Too much, I decided. resolution leaves one 
At barely 20·ycar~-old wondering if the Swdent spurts were my lite. ~ot only , Senate has any confidence in did I know this, but other the future of the Notre people knew ~hi~ as well. Dame football program. It 
Not that there's anything ~tates that any excess money wrong with spun~. I !ove the collected should be placed spirit of competition And I ir. a tru,t iund for future will always be a lov:.l ~otre damage~ "3hould the toot· Dame fan. But ~ports are just :>..1• team ever again return one aspect oflift:. ~·~,,:·,.. "''""~ ~P.\·ay game vic­
Like most of u~ Arb and u;_·ivu..." Letters people, I'm not sure 1 111 ;Pl'azed that Burke how I want to spend the rest WvL.OI<.i even him that anyone of my life. Sports journalism hut students should pay for and broadcasting :tre op­~he t:;~mage. Why should the tions. But car. I do \Jthr.r athletic department be 

things? Can I havt-opiniom about non-sp0rts issues? I think ~G. 1\du:!!ly, : k.,ow so. That's why I've decided to :.hi.. gear:. a: I he 0bsemer. Hopefully, the ge:trs won't grind. Well, they'll probably grin(i ;• !itrle. As long~ I'm nm throwr. il"lto reverse. 
···­
'\'ow Lha< l'h· ration;.:lized \or rambled) about my personal life, tt'~ time to comment on a couple of relevant topics. 
Did anvone notice Tom :vtowle's article in vester­day's edition regart:ing the Student Senate'~ "Sdve the Buse~" campaign? In case you missed it, here's the back­ground. 
As all of us rcmen,ber (or partially remember, depending on alcohol intake that evening), :\otre Dame Avenue was a mob scene on the evening ofNovember6 -the day the football team returned victorious from Pittsburgh. 
As the Transpo buses containing the squad turned onto Notre Dame Avenue that evening, hoardes of stu­dents showed their appreciation by climbing on the 

responsible?  Was  Athletic  
Director  Gene  Corrigan  
leading the mad rush?  

I wish Burke luck m collecting 12 cents per student. I doubt that the "Save the Buses" drive will succeed. But that S82.j.75 must come fron; :,omewhere. 
**** 

In case you missed the fmnt-page headline today, the long-awaited PACE (Priorities and Commitments for Excellence) Report was reieased yesterday by llniver­sity Provost Timothy O'Meara. 
Senior Staff Reporter Carol Camp reviews the report on page one. One of the ."'19 suggestions, however, deserves special recog!litiun. 
" ... It is recommer.th:... that tht. LPiversity seck to increase the endowment for :.JnJL•g• adu:!tl: student aid threefold by 1990," it stal:e~. 
This recommenli..uool 1~ o..n •Lu•.lr!:, ..;ignificant be­cause it represents tne i .1•ver~11~··· re::~ELatioa of the financial hurden plact"ll <~•I 'tt.J::m~ ~.ml their families. To increase the endm~<~T.c.:ut tnrertold would be dramatic. 
Design Editor ........................... Kay Holland Design Assistant ............................ Alan Bell Brigeue Goulet Layout Staff................ Cathyann Reynolds Typesetters............................. Reggie Daniel AI Novas News Editor .................................. Vic Sciulli Copy Editor ............................ Greg Swiercz ND Day Editor.................. Kathleen Hogan SMC Day Editor ........................ Tim Petters Features Layout........................ Tari Brown Editorials Layout ...............Joe Musumeci Sports Copy Editor .............. Chris Needles Typist ....................................... Mary Torchia AdDesign ....................................... Paul Slota Photographer ............................... Ed Carroll  
The Observer (USPS 598 9201 1s published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacation penods The Observer IS publrshed by the students of Notre Dame and Sarnt Mary s Col· lege Subscnpl!ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnt1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. lndrana 46556 The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved Second class postage pard at Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556  


l ...............~.....--.~.........,...,............,....,..~.......~~~~..,..~..........,...~...,..1 
~ The Provost sp~eaks ard ~ I arswers questi~C~rs onthe ~ I PACE report inthe 1 ~ Grace Hall pit onThursday, t I Dec. 2 at 10:OOpm _ ~ \ ALL WELC01ME! ! ! \ 
.~.......,....,...................................,..........._........~............~................_...................... ..J, 
• 
r 9 ·~



'• Juniottg{{ • 
~ttetty ~It uUoltlliS 9"" ttoontS_~Il CZJebttuolly 18-20 Jutttolt cpottettt!l•C\A)ee~ettd unQQ be ott CCJI1ll~tg., COec. 2iJt ~£oez1'otttutte u\lavv· 
7:00pm 

•

r .. 


.. 
The Observer Seniors, Grad students 



RA applications available 

By CAROL CAMP 
SentorStaffReporter 
Applications for resident assistant positions will be available in the Office of Student Affairs Office until Jan. 14, according to Father Gregory Green, vice president for Student Af­fairs. 
Anyone interested in applying must pick up their application in person at the Office of Student Af­fairs. Applicants must present their student ID in order to be given the necessary forms. The application and three letters of recommenda­tion must be returned to the Office of Student Affairs no later than Jan. 
21. 
Applicants must be either a senior or a graduate student the following year and must have a cumulative grade point average ofat least 3.0. In addition, applicants must not have any other "job" responsibilities for the semester(s) that they will serve as an R.A. 
After all applications have been submitted, the Student Affairs Office will conduct an initial screening of 
R.A. candidates. This screening will consist of a check of the applicants qualifications. Applicants will be in­formed oftheir status by the Student Affairs Office onJan. 31. 
Candidates who pass the initial screening process will then have un­til Feb. 4 to contact the rectors ofthe halls in which they wish to serve in order to schedule an interview. There is no limit as to the number of dorms that a candidate may apply to serve in, but in each case, the rector determines which candidates will be interviewed. While some rectors encourage students from outside their hall to apply, others prefer to limit the selection of candidates to hall residents. 
After the interviews are com­pleted, rectors must submit their selections to the Office for Student Affairs. Ifthere are no further objec­tions, candidates are informed of their appointments on March 7. New R.A.s must sign their contracts sometime after March 23. 
Green emphasized the changes that have been made in the applica­tion process for law stuents. Only prospective law students must now be granted permission to apply for 
R.A. positions, he said. In previous years, all law students were required to acquire a note of approval from the law school's Assistant Dean for Academic Affairs. Green added that acceptance as an R.A. does not mean that the applicant has also been ac­cepted into graduate program. 
Those students who wish to apply for an R.A. position and will be un­available for an interview because of studying abroad next semester are urged to inform their rectors oftheir situation and indicate their desire to be considered as an R.A. candidate. 
Additional information can be ob­tained from the Office ofStudent Af­fairs. 


Universe origin? 
Astonome_rs discover galaxy string 
The latest In designer clothes from Paris? Leftovers from the Beaux Arts Ball? These students are actually dress rehearsing for the Christmas Madrigal Dinners which will be held in the Regina North Lounge atSaintMary's Thursday through Sund<l)'. (Pboto by Ed Carroll) 
:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::-m.::::::::;:::;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:::::::;:;:::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::;:;:::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ 
Study, Live and Work 
in London field Placements in all programs
*Orea1iive Writing, literature and theatre 
*British history, society and politics *Psychology
*Independent studies in other ueas l'or further informa'Uon write: 
Antioch International 
London Program antioch 
Yellow Springs, OK tSS87 

::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::J~J~t!::.::!;:~:~:,};:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;: 
Winner of 3 Academy Awards 
N.D. Student Union presents 


'On Gol-den Pond' 
NEW YORK (AP) -The dis­covery of the largest known structure in the heavens -a string of galaxies 700 million light-years long -could help explain how the universe took shape eons ago, scien­tists say. 
Astronomers at radiotelescopes in West Virginia and Puerto Rico said Monday that they have identified a string ofgalaxies stretchingfrom the constellation Pegasus to the Big Dip­per, halfway across the sky. 
The filament of galaxies is 100 million to ZOO million light years from Earth, the researchers said A gravity. 
But according to~elli, there has not been enough"time since the beginning ofthe universe {or gravity to cause a cluster as large as'tlle.new­ly discovered string ofgalaxies. · 
Giovanelli and his collaborator ­Martha Haynes, assistant director of the National Radio Observatory in Green Bank. W. Vir. -used radio 

light year is the distance light trauels 
continuedfrom page 1 

in one year -about 6 trillion miles. A typical galaxy contains millions Tylenol case, Hoos said: "alii can say to hundreds ofbillions ofstars. is there are no federal charges 
Riccardo Giovanelli, a staff against him." astronomer at the National Masterson was held without bail Astronomy and Ionosphere Center on an outstanding warrant for pos­
near Arecibo, Puerto Rico, said find­session of marijuana and was ing the huge chain of galaxies sup­scheduled for arraignment on that ports the theory that galaxies charge today, said police Lt. Keith condensed from long filaments of Ross. matter. The lllinois Department of Law 
The theory was proposed by the Enforcement had issued an all­astronomer Y.B. Zeldovich of the points bulletin for Masterson's arrest r:;~f_t Un~on. An alternative theory on the marijuana possession charge, SW¥~~tes formed independently but he was wanted primarily for and fate~: .. drifted together due to questioning in the Tylenol case. 
Masterson has decided to waive ============== extradition on the marijuana charge 
DeLorean claims he was setup 
LOS ANGELES (AP)-Attorneys 

for auto magnate John Z. De Lorean 
claim he was lured into a cocaine 
conspiracy by government agents 
who may have discouraged 
legitimate loans to his failing car 
company. 
The lawyers, disclosing their 

defense plans in court documents 
filed Monday, contend the govern· 
ment was trying to make De Lorean 
desperate for funds and vulnerable 
to suggestions that he join a S24 mil­
lion narcotics distribution deal. 
"There is a substantial indication 

that the government may have at· 
tempted to induce legitimate 
sources of income not to deal with 
De Lorean in an effort to force him 
into what the goverment perceived 
as a compromising situation ..." 
the attorneys said in a lengthy mo­
tion filed in U.S. District Court. 
"In point offact any involvement 

ofdefendant De Lorean with the un­
dercover agents in this case was 
noncriminal and was designed to ob­
tain funding for the De Lorean Motor 
Co.," the papers said. 
and will return to Chicago for questioning accompanied by FBI agents, Fahner said. 
Seven people in the Chicago area died between Sept. 29 and Oct. I af­ter taking Extra-Strength Tylenol capsules laced with cyanide. 
The deaths touched off a massive hunt for the killer. 
waves in finding that two previously identified clusters were actually two ends ofone much larger cluster. 

The two clusters, named the Lynx-Ursa Major supercluster and the Perseus supercluster after the constellations in which they are located, were separated by the Milky Way. 
. .. Suspect 


In an affidavit filed when a search warrant was obtained for Master­son's home. Chicago investigators said that .\lasterson and his wife Joann had once sued theJewel food Stor~·s claiming Mrs. Masterson was manhandled by employees in an al­leged ~huplifting incident. 
Th~· ~u11 was settled out of court, but ime~;;gators said Masterson, who W<>• ·''::both as a mechanic and 
as  a  st;tinnl  glass artisan,  held  a  
grudge Jg;,:.~~ t the store.  
r'he  OUH:r  retail  outlet  ag.Unst  

wluch Masterson held a grudge was identified in the affadavit as Frank's Finer Foods, but the document did not elaborate the reason for Master­son's resentment. 
The affidavit also detailed a con· vcrsation with a clinical psychiatrist in which Masterson was quoted as sa~·ing "many people twill suffer" be­caus~.: of his grudge against Jewel. l\lastcr~<ln also reportedly said that "Son ol '-am (a notorious New York multipi, · -,JUrder case) will pale by 
compan~on." 
Teachers Needed!!!! Get Involved in ND-SMC Student Union's 
Free University 
ttan opportunity to share your interests'' 
Sign up in the S.U. office {2nd Floor La Fortune) 

$1 Engineering Aud. 
Dec. 3&4 7,9,&11 
On 


Golden 

JOEL FEINBERG 
Professor of Philosophy University of Arizona Eleventh Annual Civil Rights lectures 
Autonomy as Personal Sovereignty December 2, 1982 4°0 pm Auditorium . ~: Center for Continuing Education 
Privacy as Autonomy December 3, 1982 12°0 Noon Law School, Room I 0 I 
sponsored by CENTER FOR CIVIL AND HUMAN RIGHTS 
Notre Dame law School 

TheObserver Wednesday, December 1, 1982-page 4 

J . :. .• . . . • . . 
jim Burns looks over some of the many Christmas cards that are being sold in the Memorial Library Concourse. The caJids can be had through a small donation. All money col-




Women's study survey distributed to HPC 
By Dr\.Vl.O F. TRACY 
.VeU'., .Hajj 
A Min·ey on the importance offor· 
nting a women's srwJy program at 
~;o!re l>a;w: wa~ di~tnbuted to the 
hall ,,re~idenb at last night's HPC 
meeting. 
Tne pre~ident~ were asked to give dwir Oj)inio;l', ahout :he importance or' a •vomer~·, ~:udy hcn: at :\otre Damc and their individual intere~ts in 'liLh a progr.un. 
In :ttltlit:'w. 1\.atc Clinton, a devciopment orticer at the l'niver­sity, spoke OP behalf of the Hospice.: of St. .Ju~ei)h Connt\·, a home health t:arc pr<1gram for terminally ill per· sons and their bmilic~ She a.,ked the pre~iJcm~ w take up a collection tor the Ho:,picr: program at one of their advent liturgie~. 
In other busine~~. a committee wa~ s1:t up b~ tne council to draw up a pn'l'"~;;; fiJI· 1!1.: rei::~tatement of ha!"'p~· nou:·~. :t ".t~ agr•·ed that :-.uch a r,•o..,osa; would inv'llve extending party ftj011"l tluUrS hy ntLYing tht: ~t:;rri:1t; ume !rom -p.m. to -t p.m. ';-"1,.: pr....,iu.:n:~ ncpe w h·tve Father 
John \'ap ~·o:viLar. nc.: ;>resideiH of 
'itucknt Afb:r,, .tt<end a meeting to 
Jiscu'' th:: propo:.~l 
I ew1s Hall was a" e~rLkd the Sow· dt:r Aware! at last nig.u·s mecting for sponsoring the mo~t origin<~! and well-planncJ :,t,cial cvenb uuring the month,,;· Ouobcr. 

Weinberger denies nuclear threat of MX 
BRUSSELS, Belgium (AP) Defense Secretary Caspar Weinber­
ger today brushed aside Soviet asser­tions that NATO missiles scheduled 
...PACE 
for deployment next year would in­agreed that the creation ofgood so­
crease the danger of accidental cial centers should be a top 
nuclear war. priority." 
"That's just another of those Regarding the responsible use of 
things they say," Weinberger alcohol by students, the report sug­
declared as he entered North Atlan­gested the creation of a committee 
tic Treaty Organization headquar­to evaluate present policies on al­
ters for a nuclear planning meeting cohol and to recommend changes with 13 Western defense ministers. when appropriate. The ministers were expected to 
reaffirm their support for deploy­In irs consideration of university 
ment of 572 Pershing II and cruise support functions, the PACE com­
missiles in five Western Europeanmittee "advocates careful, long­
countries by the end of 1983 to range planning for both academic 
counter Soviet SS-20 medium range computing and administrative data 
missiles targeted on Western processing." The possibility of Europe. developing a computer science 
Soviet news commentators on major in the undergraduate cur­
Monday asserted the NATO riculum was suggested. 
weapons would make the danger of accidental nuclear war greatly en­The committee concluded its hanced.
report with the following statement: "It's a weapon they fear," Wein­
"In essence, we must excel as a berger said, but "it adds to our university in the full sense of the deterrence." word, actively engaged in teaching The agenda of the NATO session a11d re~earch; we must maintain our called for Weinberger to open with a C.uholic identity; and we must briefing on President Reagan's con­remain conscious of and faithful to troversial plan to base MX intercon­our mission in all our actions aand tinental missiles in a dense pack in decisions." Wyoming. 




Do You Have 
•. 1\'­69,6'-\\0 ;\.a\1\\S, 
'-~" co'\\\1
·--o1\'-•


"'~'''~ ,,,,
'1. ~e1\ •,.,1\\~01 ~0-;\.\~·· 

forIbe.Obseorer? 
Oome 1io 1ihe VIRY FIRS! General Readership Forum IR HIS'lORY. 
Monday, Dec. 6 at 6:80 in the Library Aud. 
RD ~ SMO Students, faculty, Administrator& (~the Public!) are invited. 
Although the MX is not depend­ent on NATO endorsement, it will be part ofthe alliance nuclear deter­rent force that includes European­based missiles and bombers and nuclear missile submarines. 
Detense mm!Sters from the European NATO countries Monday defended their record against charges by U.S. congressmen who want to withdraw thousands of U.S. troops from Europe unless the host countries increase their own forces. 
The Europeans issued a list of 1983 commitments to add 1,000 armored vehicles, more than two dozen warships and 50,000 anti-tank weapons to their combined forces. 
They said they already provide more than three-fourths the sol­diers, armored divisions, ships and airplanes facing Soviet bloc armies, yet have half the population and gross national product of the al­lianoe. 
British Defense Minister John Nott, spokesman for his European colleagues, said the list was designed to show the American public that Western Europe is shouldering its share ofthe defense burden. 
H(: said the ministers unanimous­ly condemned a proposal by U.S. Sen. Ted Stevens, R-Alaska, ro bring home American troops unless the Europeans improve their efforts. 
Nott said such action would des­tabilize the balance of power in Europe and would be "damaging to the alliance." 
He said the European ministers should increase their lobbying ef­forts with U.S. congressmen because "we can never do enough to explain ourselves to the United States." 



' ' 'Salk 
conttnuedfrompage 1· 
w:•~t.: in deten~e ~pending. Salk ndieves that S I 00 hi Ilion could be <.ut I• om the current defense hudget withou, any loss in ~he national 
dert:n~e. 
He concluded hb kcwre on 
detC::n~e spending hy saying that 
''expenditures on arms never add 
anytl.ing to <.n et:onomy. :'\o country 
nas ever t•xi,ted on arms and hurter. 
"The bottom line is will the 
Lnited Stare:> and the Soviet Lnion 
live together vr oie together." 

~.tik's message was accented by an anonyinous yuote on a poster he brought with him which read: "It will De a great day when our schools have all th<' mone~ they need and the Air l:'.orce h:ts to hold a hake sale to huy a t>omher." 
~alk rs im'Olved in numerous )!0\o.:rnmcnt:.l aau international peace organization~. 
continuedfrom page 1 
campus social life, and the use ofal· coho!). 
Based upon enrollment figures for the 1982-83 year, the report recom­mends that undergraduate enroll­ment be maintained at the projected figure of 7,;SOO students for the next decade. 
In the section pertaining ro Stu­dent Affairs, the report affirms and re-emphasizes the value of Campus Ministry in the University com­munity. 
The section of the report describ­ing student life at Notre Dame is divided into three parts: hall life, so­cial life and student alcohol use. Stu­dent life is described as "the most immediate problem de~erving atten­tion in the 1980's and a solution before 1990." 
Factors contributing to hall life problems include the "often am­biguous" role of the rector, hall governance, overcrowding in some of the older halls and the "inadequate and unattractive" social space in some ofthe men's halls. Sug­gestions for rectifying these problems include the creation of "common space''and providing al­ternative housing arrangements for certain seniors anu r:. :tie graduate students. 
The issue ofa new student center is also addressed. Recommendations include the "development of satellite centers similar to the Oak Room" and the development of so­cial and cultural centers on campus. 
The report states that "the lengthiest discussions in the PACE committee concerned the question of social centers," and that "all 

It's discOYering yourself. Learning thatyou're better than Name you think you are. 
And finding out how to work st...et with others. 
City State Zip
Comejoin us on a 3-week trip orexcitementand self-challenge. 
School

You may come back a better Check the courses thatinterestyou:
you. 
Canoeing _ Desert Expeditions
WhiteWater 
Rafting 
Wilderness Backpacking 
Mountaineering ­

Outward Bound, Dept. CH. 384 Field Point Rd. Greenwich, CT 06830 Phone toll free (800) 243-8520 
No experience necessary Outward Bound admits students ofany sex, race, color and national or ethnic origin. We are a nonprofit organization. 
Scholarships auailable. 
~..~ ~0 
§-~

~ ; Outward Bouncr 
~The course that never ends 





Editorials 

Wednesday, December 1, 1982-page 5 
May they be one 

Last Sunday morning, Sacred Hean's bells woke the campus (and most living beings east of the Continental Divide), announcing the spectacle ofthe 10:30 Mass. 
"What's so special about this Mass, or the 

12:15 Mass for that matter?" I wondered. 
Keith Picher 
Short of Profundity 

The pervasive question revolves not around personal ceremonial preferences; the real problem at Notre Dame and in the Church is disunity. Jesus' followers call them­selves Protestants or Catholics. Catholics are either Roman or Eastern Orthodox. 
Even among those who claim the Roman tradition, conservative and liberal factions despise one another. Liberals question the value of many conservative beliefs and 
Political science majors who have an inter­est in the international political scena,rio have had a field day during the past semester -we have been the proverbial drunks with the dis­tillery keys as we study the battle over the MX missle in the United States, the rise of the "peace movement" in Europe, post-Malvinas Argentina, and the seeming political chaos throughout the Middle East. 
Robert Lloyd Snyder ____ . ....;;;;....__T....h_e~n-M_..d---W-e_e_k ' 
1 

Yet, two of the most significant political events ofthe last year were the deaths of two institutions in Eastern Europe -two events whose only related theme was the fact that they occured within days of each other. One institution was ancient and weak; the end had been long-anticipated in the West. The other institution, by comparison, still in its infancy, was cruelly and quickly exterminated in a manner which would make the most authori­tarian government drool with envy. 
Leonid Brezhnev is dead -.stone dead, cold. and buried. 
Solidarity, the fledgling political-labor un­ion in Poland was officially declared clinically dead on November 1Oth by the disasterous practices while conservatives doubt the validity of liberal ideology and action. Was Jesusjoking when he fervently prayed that we might all be one? 
Nowhere may the dichotomy be better ob­served than at our liturgies, the one place where we should be unified. 
The 10:30 Mass emphasizes ritual, coming straight from the middle ages, as one observer put it. Choir music, occasional Latin hymns, choking incense, and mile-long processions are the spirit ofthis Mass. Those who plan the liturgy seem to be more concerned with providinga liturgical paradigm parexcellence 
against  which  all  other  liturgies  may  be  
measured.  Social  gospel  need  not  be  
addressed at this Mass.  

The 12:15 emphasizes little but social gospel. While the atmosphere is cenainly more personal than that of the high Mass, some valuable pans of the liturgy are com­promised. For the frequenter of the 12:15, even mentioning-the 10:30 sends shivers down the spine. 
On one occasion I attended the 12: 1 5 with a friend who commented that the "Mass" was too liberal for his tastes. A fonnight later at the earlier liturgy, a different friend announced that Sominex had nothing on that Mass. Unfor­tunately, many people feel uneasy with one Mass or the other. 
Some might think that the variety is good, providing differing liturgies for differing tastes. By this analysis, the 5:00 Mass on Satur­day should be reserved for those who con­vened to Catholicism, the 9:00 on Sunday should be reserved for people who doubt the infallibility of the pope, the masses in the crypt should be for people who are left handed, and perhaps we could find a Mass for those with diabetes who used to live in Zelienople, Pennsylvania 
Our church cenainly needs liberals, con­servatives, and moderates. Liberals keep us 
Elegies for the East 
failure of the union to pose little more than sions of the Sino-Soviet split, and the rise of token resistance against the mania! law the "Eurocommunist" movement which per­regime ofGeneralJ aruzelski. haps alligns itself more closely with the Brezhnev's long tenure as the leader of the United States than with the U.S.S.R Soviet Union is impressive ifwe examine only 
Brezhnev's heirs will be forced to deal withhis ability to remain at the helm of the Soviet a grave domestic and foreign situation. Thenation for 18 years. After all, Brezhnev was the Soviet economy is in shambles, mainly due tofirst Soviet leader to wholly emerge as a mismanagement and central planning. Thereproduct of the Stalin years, having survived is rising labor unrest in the industrial and numerous purges on his eventual rise to the agricultural sectors. By the end ofthe century,
Soviet premiership. Brezhnev was a prag­ethnic Russians will be outnumbered by thematist, a leader who showed a cenain aptitude current primarily Asian minority. Internation­at economic, bureaucratic and foreign mat­ally, the Soviets are powerless in the Middleters. Brezhnev lorded over the rise of the East, quagmired in Afganistan, and perhaps onSoviet Union from the world's "second world the decline in the eyes of the Third World.
power" to a position of near parity with the Then, there is Eastern Europe and Poland.
United States. The Polish military regime, backed
Yet, Brezhnev's policies were misguided (perhaps forced?) by the Soviets, has finally 
and ill-planned in many ways. The Soviet Un­exorcised Solidarity from the Polish nation to
ion is rapidly showing its inability to make the an irreversible degree. The government, find­
"inevitable" transition from a pseudo-socialist ing that the labor movement was unwilling to
state to a mature communist state: the play a subordinate role to the military govern­
"equality ofindividuals" within the Soviet Un­ment, found it necessary to exterminate the
ion as preached by the elitist Communist Solidarity union once and for all. While
party is a standing international joke -the Solidarity may attempt sporadic incidents of
glorified worker has no tangible power, the resistance throughout the next few months, it
division oflabor remains unchanged in the so­will never be the political force that it once
cial sense, and the state has imposed itself as was; the Polish government cannot afford a
sovereign over the civil population. 
Solidarity revival. 
During Brezhnev's tenure has come the Czechoslavakian debacle, the heighte!led ten-However, this does not spell the end of the from becoming too bogged downed in the let­ter of the law. Conservative thinkers are also needed to keep the essentials of our faith in­tact. Moderates help bridge the gap between liberal and conservative. Variety ofopinion is as essential in the church as in any other in­stitution. 

Political opinion has its time and place. Mass is neither the time nor the place. The liturgy should be an occasion for unity where all Catholics feel welcome, not uncom­fonable. During the hubbub of the week, the Mass offers us a chance to pause awhile and center on Christ, the One through whom we are one. By allowing such disparity in liturgi­cal mood, the 10:30 and 12:15lose the unity which our community holds so dear. 
Desire for unity cannot be senarated from genuine progressive work. Christians will not magically become one, nor will conservative and liberal Catholics unify without genuine ef­fon. 
Polish labor movement, which dates beyond the Gdansk shipyard demonstrations which mid-wifed Solidarity. The labor movement in Poland dates back to the riots ofthe winter of 1970-71, when workers won the right to reject proposed increases in food costs. The movement is a strong social force in Poland, and such a social force cannot be legislated into oblivion. Yes, Solidarity, the trade union, is dead. Yet, the spiritof"Solidarity" will car­ryon. 
What these events will mean for the future of the Soviet Union and the world is yet un­clear. It is not obvious whether the new Soviet leadership, led by Andropov, will be confron­tatonal or conciliatory in its dealing with the United States. Perhaps the Soviets may shift their primary emphasis from foreign affairs in order to concentrate more on the rapidly deteriorating domestic situation in the Soviet Union. 
In Poland, it is too early to determine the channels through which the labor movemer.t will express itself -whether through new less-encompassing trade unions, a government-affiliated trade union, or an inde­pendent trade union a Ia Solidarity. These events will largely determine the future of Europe and the course of world events into the 21st century. 


P.O. Box Q 

Editor's Note: Letters should be brief and
Nuclear disarmament: moral necessity 

deal with specific issues. They must be typed and bear the address, telephone number and Dear Editor: advocating that? Not the Catholic bishops. be contaminated with things like moral prin­
signature of the author. Initials and pseudo­Not the Freeze movement. Not the military. ciples. 
nyms are not acceptable. Reproductions, Allow me a few comments on Mike If the West needs more conventional 
carbon copies, or letters addressed to per­Monk's editorial on the U.S. Catholic bish­weapons to defend itself, why can't it build Brother William Mewes, C.S.C. 
sons other than the editor are ng.t accept op's letter on nuclear weapons. those up while both sides reduce nuclear Columba Hall 
able. All letters are subject to editing. The fact that possession of nuclear arms weapons? Better yet, why can't both sides, for deterrence "has been a cornerstone of and all sides, reduce conventional weapons 
U.S. policy ever since the insane arms race as well? with the Russians began back in the early "Through taking advantage of the West's 

Student misquotes lecturer 
50's" does not make it right. Even ifit were commitment not to use nuclear arms, the right at one time, that doesn't mean it will Russian government has annihilated mil­

DearEditor: The self-righteous tone of the letter ap­always be right even though sacrificing the lions of its own people...." What do you 
pears to indicate that Mr. Burr is one ofthose poor in ever larger numbers and drawing us propose, that we do the job for them by 
I hope Barry Burr is not representative of free market ideologues who believe they ever nearer annihilation. Perhaps we should using our nuclear weapons on Russia? 
graduate students in business at Notre have simple answers to the complex admit that we are sinners, or at least trapped Although praising the Catholic bishops for 
Dame. If he attended my presentation he problems of the real world. Recent ex­in a sinful situation, and beg God for mercy, "their strong and tireless effons," Monk's ar­
didn't listen, and ifhe relied on The Observer perience in the U.S. economy does not ap­forgiveness and help. ticle seems to come down on the side ofthe 
as a "paperofrecord" he haspoor judgment. pear to have registered with Mr. Burr. Since when does a mutual halt in the bishop's keeping silent. He also seems to be 
I said overpopulation is often cited as a nuclear arms race and working for mutual advocating that morality should be left out 
cause of hunger and then went on to argue arms reductions mean the same as "bowing of the real world and that imponant things 

why that is false. I also said distribution (not Charles K Wilber down to Communist Russia?" Who is like halting a nuclear arms race should not 
transponation) is a major problem. Chairman, Economics Dept. 


Editorial Board Department Managet:s 
"1/w ()!J,,.,,.,.,  ~~  an  indcpcndcn: nl·w,p.lper publa-ht·d by  rhc ,(udents of  the  Editor-in-Chief. ............................. Michael Monk  Business Manager .............................Tony Aiello  
l 'niH"r,lty of Notre D.1me du I.Jl .anJ S.1ant M.uy\ C.ollegc. It does r.ot l'l'\l'~sJraly.  Managing Editor ................ Ryan Ver Berkmoes  Controller .............................................Eric Schulz  
rdkd .the pol1ucs of the adrnanlstr.ltiOt• of c:1tlwr mstitut1on. The news  "  rq,ort  Executive News Editor.............. David Dziedzic  Advertising Manager ....................... Chris Owen  
ed J' .utur.1tely and J~  uhJl"f.tt\d}· J' po,s1blc:. f:d1tOr1.1ls fl'pre~cnt  tbcop1:1ion of  SMC Executive Editor............Margaret Fosmoe'  Production Manager .................. Maura Murphy  
.1 tnJJOnty of the EJ1toraJI Board. Co.nrnc:nt.anc'. opinions and letters arc the: \"ICWS  Sports Editor ................................... Chris Needles  Circulation Manager .................... Mark_Mio_tto  
uf thur authors. ( olumn .~('J<C  1' JVJd.ahlc to ;all member, ot the <Ommunlly. and  Editorials Editor .............................Paul Mc.Ginn  Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley  
the: frcc expressaon of varymg opinwns on ..:ampu>, through letter>. 1~  entounged.  Features Editor ...................................Tari Brown  
P.O.Hox Q. Notre Dame, IN -.(l')')(l (l19) H9-'i.iO.i  Photo EtlittJr ...................................Rachel Blount I  Founded November 3, 1966  

-----~---~-~--~

..------~--------------------------------------~-------------~--------------------­
~~S H0 W C ~~~_s._.E._.._.._.._.wiiedniiesiidaiiy,oiieciiemiibc;ii~rIii,1ii9sii2~p~ag~e6 
COCK invades lrishtown 

The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's symbolizes all that is fun and free­music and dance to effectively 
.1 Department ofCommunication spirited -something totally alien to present the comedy which is also and Theatre will present Sean the town which it visits. tragic. The show will be presented at O'Casey's Cock-a-Doodle Dandy as The presence of the chicken is 8:00p.m. on Thursday, December 2 a part ofa Sean O'Casey festival controversial. The young people of and Friday. December 3 in the Little sponsored hy the College ofArts and the town accept the cock, while the Theatre on the Saint Mary's campus. Letters. O'Casey was an Irish older citizens attempt to force it out Admission is free. playwright horn in 1880. He wrote of the town. The play begins on a 
In addition to the production of many plays dealing with the life. so-comical note, but the cock's 
Cock-a-Dood/eDand)'. the Collc:ge presence causes the community to ofArts and Letters-sponsored divide itself The young and the old O'Casey festival includes two
Ray Wise 

of the town divide, and the reaction lectures and the performance ofan­ofthe townspeople towards the other ofO'Casey's plays. chicken becomes violent. 
Mrs. Eileen O'Casey, widow of
theatre preview O'Casey seems to make a power­
Sean O'Casey, will speak tonight at ful statement against the church and 8:00p.m. in the Architecture 
cia!, and artistic conditions in his the Irish people because of their Auditorium. Her address is entitlednative Ireland. Although his first few resistance to change. According to "Sean and Myself"
plays were well received, his com­Reginald Bain, the production's Tomorrow afternoon at 4:30p.m.,
munist views eventually caused his director, O'Casey is "using theatre Professor David Krause ofBrown
writing to become unpopular. Con­to deal with his own exile." It wa~ sequently, ()'Casey left Ireland for difficult for O'Casey to accept the 
University will deliver a lecture en­England. While in England, he initial­fact that he was "never invited hack" 
titled "O'Casey and Marx and ly had some difficulty writing com­to the mainstream theatre ofhis 
Christ." The lecture will take place in room II 7 of Haggar Hall. 
mercially successful drama, even homeland. Bain also mentioned that though his works were critically ac­O'Casey believed very strongly in At 8:30p.m. on Saturday, Decem­claimed. Eventually he achieved the necessity for complete freedom ber 3, the Chicago based Theatre commercial, as well as critical, for artists and was attacking those Guild ofthe Council oflrish Arts will success. "elements of the church which presentjuno and thePaycock in the 
Cock-a-Doodle Dandy is one of feared new artistic movements." Little Theatre ofSaint Mary's. This is ()'Casey's later plays. As such, it However, it is important to realize one of()'Casey's earlier works, and deals with hfs feelings as an Irish that O'Casey felt both "love and is noted for rapid transitions be­playwright in a self-imposed exile. frustration with the society." tween tragedy and comedy and im­The play centers on the srory ofa The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's pressive dialogue. Admission for town that has been invaded hy a Theatre Department's production of juno and the Paycock is also free of large cock. The large chicken Cock-a-Doodle Dandy utilizes charge. 

Chtiatmoa TV listings
Jumping to the Frogs 

w:dnetday 
-vou may think Duke Tumatoe and fans who will be wearing Duke get up on it!> teet." 
l. the All-Star Frogs are a regional Tumatoe shirts and requesting some Duke Tumatoc formed the All-Star 
phenomena. Ifyou do, you're par­ofthe Frogs' original songs. Frogs in Champaign, Illinois in 1970. tially right. Over the last II years, The group gradually expanded its
It is, after all, the music which first

the Frogs have become one ofthe base into Iowa, Indiana, Wisconsin 
attracts the fans. Duke and the Frogs

hottest acts in the Midwest, but have and Michigan, with occasional
play a lusty and whimsical brand of

generally stayed in the five-state forays into Missouri, Kentucky, Ten­
blues. "It's called R&B, but it's really 

area. But by regularly playing most nessee, Minneso1a and, most recent­
more B&R," says bass player L.V.

ofthe major universities in Iowa, In­ly, Ohio. Bass player Hammond and
Hammond. Duke may offer to "Fool

diana, lllinios, Wisconsin and Michi­keyboard playerJames Mitchell Hill 
Around With You" or "Tie You Up," 

gan (not to mention the annual became Frogs in I975, although
but he'll also explore the lighter side

Chicagofest), they picked up ana­both of them played with Duke as
of"Self Doubt" and the embarass­

tional following. Everywhere you early as 1967 in his college days at U 
ment of"I Wouldn't Have Did What I 

go, there are people who have heard ofI. Drummer Robin Steele joined
Did IfI Hadn't Been High."

ofThe Duke ... and like him. Wear a the group in I978. Duke Tumatoe shirt for aday in any But after the music attracts the The Frogs have recorded two al­major city and a stranger is likely to fans, Duke and the Frogs capture bums: Red PepperHot on Trouser­strike up a conversation about the them with excellent stage presence worm Tunes in I976, andNaughty 
Frogs and their music. and a high-voltage performance. Child on Blind Pig Records in I98I. Duke and the Frogs put on more Work is under way on a third album. 
A first performance by Duke and than a concert: It's a complete show, Duke Tumatoe and the All-Star the Frogs in a new city -or even a one that involves the audience. Frogs will be appearing in Chautau­new state -is likely to bring out a "We're a physically agressive band," qua on Friday, Dec. 4 at 9 and 10:30 packed house and dozens ofloyal Duke admits. "We'll make a crowd p.m. 


Ziggy's Christmas gift 

The year-round glow ofwarmth brings joy to a houseful oforphans. 
.1 and good humor from beloved cartoon-character "Ziggy" takes on Before the tale ends, he has even new dimensions this Christmas taught a malevolent pickpocket the season when he makes his television meaning ofChristmas. As the refrain 
debut in his first animated special ofNilsson's theme song,Ziggy'sGift tonight on Channel 28 at 8 p.m. reminds us: "Love is the only word that counts. Love is the answer." Ziggy creator Tom Wilson con­ceived and wrote the special. One of Richard Williams, Oscar-winning 
his priorities in creatingZiggy'sGift, animator, collaborated closely with was to write a traditional Christmas Wilson in preparing over I,000 tale, full ofwonder and enchant­carefully-rendered storyboards to 
ment. "I wanted to create a story be used as the basis for the anima­
that would appeal to everyone, that tion. "It was very important that would become a classic," Wilson Tom draw the storyboards himself said. Ziggy's part ofTom. To do Ziggy 
right, the drawings had to emanate Ziggy's Gift is that classic tale, in from him," Williams said. which Ziggy demonstrates the magic ofgiving. As a kind-hearted To coincide with Ziggy's televi­street-corner Santa, Ziggy makes his sion debut, Andrews and McMeel way through the city streets ofa will publishZiggy's Gift, a 64-page greedy and corrupt world, doing paperback ( $6.95 ), that unfolds the good deeds. He frees all the turkeys story ofthe film in nearly 300 full (destined for Christmas dinner) in a color reproductions ofthe original local meat market, befriends a stray animation eels, accompanied by oar-kitten, saves a tiny Christmas tree rative. The book may be purchased 
r;o~-c::':::.:.'~';:~-fr;o;m;d;e~s;t;ru;ct;i~o;n~a~n~d~u~lt~im;a;te~l~y••~i;n~t~h;e~N;o~tr~e~D;a~m~e~B~o~o;k;st~o;r~e~





The Observer Featurvs Section 
Wednesday, December 1, 1982-page 7 
Asimple child's Christmas 

W 
ebster's ThirdNewInternationalUtctionary lists 30 words which begin with the word "child." Among them are childbearing, childcrowing("the loud crowing sound made by an infant or child with spas­modic croup"), childhood, childing, childish, childlike, children and child's play. Add close to two dozen more words beginning with the same five letters and you will start to accumulate a rather prolitk list ofwords based 
Tari Brown 
fentures 

on a solitary vocabularic denotation meaning "a young person ofeither sex esp. between infancy and youth." 
Having just recently passed through my years of youth, I am particularly aware of"that word" when used as an adjective in reference to my person, being, behavior or activity. !\ly driver's license will attest to the fact that infancy wa~ a stage that I outgrew a few year, ago and that youth doesn't quite fit my stage of growth. Legally I am an adult (although I have con­sidered myself so for longer than the laws ofboth In­diana and Michigan state) and yet, I am the first to admit that there still exists a bit ofchild within my multi­faceted "adult" personality. _ 
This aspect of my being is L~~ecially apparent during thc thirty-odd days between Thanksgiving and Christmas. 
Oh, that word ofword~. The culmination of childhood dreams and all childlike behavior. 
Christmas. 
Amazing how a simple hi-syllabic word can ellicit paroxysms of joy from human creatures who spend most ofthe rcmaining 330-odd days enamoured ofbiol­ogy notes and hlue hooks. For those who will begin their journey through the world ofcommerce and in­dustry, those _HO-odd days are a seeming prepararory cour~c in the dictates ofone Ebenezer Scrooge made famous hy a not-so-fdmous English gent named Charles Dickens. 
"Adults" of my age and generation become obsessed with TV guides and television screens at this time of year. Calendars start to resemble the Observer TV column; computer study group" change their meeting times to accomodate other important schedules; and suddenly General Hospital loses its video appeal. 
The phenomena can be explained in two words: Christmas specials. 
During the hoursof8 to 10 p.m. on any given evening from today on. dozens of Notre Dame students will huddle en masse around the nearest television screen. High pitch giggles and unison choral renditions ofsuch favorite~ as "Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer" and "Santa Claus is Coming to Town" will fill the air. 
Christmas specials have this innate power over people. We sit as a group, a community characterized by our common desire to watch the adventures of Rudolph in the Land of Misfits or the Grinch as he tries to steal Christmas from the families of Whoville. 
I remember a couple ofyears ago when the TV set in the Lyons' lounge was broken and the set in the hallway was the only one functioning. Promptly at H p.m. one very cold December night. a collection ofengineering, biology, architecture. arts and letters and undecided majors found themselves huddled in an eight by tlfteen space. The reason for this gathering was simple: Fros~}' the Snowman was on. 
As the show began. everyone. talented or uthenvise, joined in a rousing chorus ofFros~r theSnou•man. And such frivolous activity continued throughA Charlie Brown Christmas, Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer andHow the Grinch Stole Christmas. 
A few thousand miles away in Italy, fifty-five Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students two years ago lived for the sound of Bing Crosby's rendition ofWhite Christmas. That song pervaded our many extended bus trips through the vineyards of the Italian countryside. 
I can think offew occasions outside ofthe traditional birthday party where people voluntarily come together in the spirit ofjoy and love . And it isn't so much that we did it when the usual TV set was broken nor that we dreamed ofit when away from our video friend. We do it every year. 
Besides the communal aspect ofour eager gatherings to watch these animated follies, there is another charac­teristic ofthese early evening groupings. Regardless of age, the child within emerges. 
We can all search through the vast recesse~ ofour memories to come up with experiences in which the essence ofchilliness is crystallized. Some that come to my mind arc the times when mom or dad was trying to impress upon me the urgency ofsome activity, like going to the corner store for milk. For some reason buying milk didn't quite seem as important as finishing the snow castle (the one that looked like a german "ka~tle" to you but like a large lump ofsnow to mom and dad). 
There wa~ vast simplicity in can·ing a crude yet king­ly tower out ofsnow. The vision ofa child masked out the crudity and allowed only the beauty to shine through. 
That kind ofsimplicity pervades the animated world ofthe Grinch. Frosty, Rudolph and Charlie Brown. There is a message to be learned about cherishing simple things, seeing them through the eyes of the in­nocent. those who see only the good and the beautiful. 
Like Little Cindy Lou Who, we need to ask for a simple glass ofwater. 
As eternal children ofDecember, we recognize. if on­ly for 31 days, the beauty and simplicity oflove. We let the child within us forget the hectic, competitive life that we daily lead by allowing us the share in the com­munity and love of that is the spirit ofChristmas. Linus inA Charlie Brown Christmas, expresses it best when in his narration of the Nativity story, repeats the angels' words to the shepherds: "Peace on earth, good will ro men." Let us take the peace we find in the children that we are with us through finals and home to our families. 







The CATHOLIC W<lve 
M
CA records, in an admirable attempt to break out new artists, is pushing four new groups. One of the groups is an all-girl band called Catholic Girls. The group is centered around their lead vocalist Gail Peterson and bassist joanne Holland. These ;\lewjersey girls have fashioned a pop/new wave sound that detlnes itselfwell against the punk leanings ofsome other new hand~. 
Ed Konrady 
record review 

The recent influx ofall-girl groups, initiated by the Runaways and now lcd by the Go-Go's, has brought about changcs in the concep­tion ofthese groups as sheer publicity vehicles without any redeem­ing musical value. Now recording companies, critics. and to a greater extent. the record-buying public, all have accepted the fact that a group ofwomen can combine and still remain;;. group of musicians. However, there will remain a bias either for or agahst all­girl groups. 
"It's not as hard as it used to be," says Peterson. "In fact, now it has become fashionable." 
"We started about five years ago, and then there wasn't any all-girl band~ around," adds Holland. "But now you can find them anywhere." 
With Catholic Girls, however, MCA has resisted the temptation to candy-coat their music to make it easily digestible by AM radio sta­tions. There is an edge to the songs that at once belies and over­whelms any care one may have for the sexual identity of the musicians. The group's influence on the album is incredible when compared to the svengali-like girl groups common in the sixties and seventies. 
"We had a lot ofinput on how the record was produced," said Peterson. "I thought the record came out sounding a lot like we sound in concert. We weren't nervous going into the studio because we had previously recorded a single, plus we had met our producer before the sessions and he seemed like someone we could get along with." 
The album, titled after the group, is a fantastic expression ofthe pop ramifications ofa new wave band with a real songwriter. Peter­son's vocals are expressive, adventuresome, and feature an in-bred vibrato. But her real talent is songwriting. A common thread, the high school experience, ties the songs together without making them seem like twelve versions of the same set oflyrics. Peterson is by no means anotherJoan Baez or even another Springsteen. However the sophomoric lyrics common with most New Wave groups are not evidenced. 
The vocals provide the necessary edge to the album. The vibrate in Peterson's voice adds expression in most ofthe song~. helping them stand out from typical radio fodder. "I guess I was born with it, says Peterson. "I don't have the vibrato when I speak. but I've alway~ had it when1 sing, ever since I was little. At first I didn't know what it was, and when I was four or five I thought it was very strange. I just have it -I don't know why." 
The one major disappointment of the album was the mixing of Holland's bass. On the majority of the songs, it is barely evident tha there was any bass on the album. What little bass can be heard is done very well, but it isn't much. 
The drummer Doreen Holmes does her job, keeping a clean, steady beat, but is basically a backdrop for Peterson and the lead guitarist Roxy Anderson. Anderson uses her lead guitar to putfills in the songs that rival the excellent melodies that Peterson has written. 
Since the recording ofthe album, Holmes has left because "she had other interests she wanted to pursue." Her replacement is Kit Connally, who has had previous experience in a punk band, and is expected to be able to provide the clean background needed for Peterson, Anderson and Holland. Speaking ofAnderson, she became sick in California after the recording ofthe album and was told by her doctor to rest until March, and would be unable to tour. She has been temporarily replaced withjanet Bisbel, who is an aquaintance "from the neighborhood" as Holland puts it. 
TriviG Quiz 57 

A fter a two-week hiatus, trivia Born' (Evergreen)" yes, hit -albums during the rock 
flreturns for the third-to-last time. 10. "Alone Again (Naturally)" era, one in 1967, the other in 1973. I plan to go out in a big way Dec. 15, And this week ... nine questions The first even yielded a top-40 hit, and as a result, your knowledge of on people better known for exploits "Gallant Men"; the other featured rock trivia could prove quite outside the world of music than renditions ofvarious pop standards. profitable. More on that in the within, each ofwhom recorded a Name these two men, both ofwhom future. single or LP, or both; and one two­were quite old when their LPs came 
part question on movies which con­out. 
tain incidental music byjohn 7. Who was the Vice President of

Tim Neely 
Williams. the United States who wrote the 
1. In early 1976, a famous sports melody for what eventually became figure recorded a country-and­Tommy Edwards' big hit "It's All in 
rock trlvin western album. It was received the Game"? quite well, and even yielded a hit 8. This TV actor had a top-! 0 hit in To refresh your memory, the last single, a remake of'Tm So 1958, "Start Movin'," but never an­quiz dealt with subtitles of hits and Lonesome I Could Cry." other pop hit record. He was later pseudo-hits. The answer, the main 

2. Another famous sports figure shot at his doorstep during an at­part of the title, is not enclosed in 

recorded an album ofpoetry around tempted robbery.

parentheses. 
1964. A little thought will make this 9. How about the disc jockeywho,I. "l.G.Y. (What a Beautiful one easy. in 1964, recorded "A Letter fromWorld)" 3. Crossing over to the world of Elaina," best described as an 2. "Tonight I'm Yours (Don't Hurt film ... an actor recorded "The Bal­elongated "long distance dedica­Me)" 

lad ofThunder Road" in 1958 and tion"? 

3. "What Kind ofFool (Do You 
had his first -and last -minor hit

Think I Am)" I 0. And now, the two-part ques­
record. 

4. 
"I (Who Have Nothing)" tion on john Williams flicks: 

4. This time, an actress. She 


5. 
"Nobody Said It Was Easy (a) In£.7'., when Elliot, his brother,


recorded a rock and roll album in 

(Lookin' for the Lights)" and friends are playing a game, a
1968, when she was well into her

6. "I Feel Like a Bullet (in the Gun radio plays in the background. Name
70s. Needless to say, it bombed.

of Robert Ford)" the first song heard on that radio. 
5. Another actress. She per­

7. 
"Escape (The Pina Colada (b) In Superman, what song is Song)" formed, so to speak, in porno flicks playing in Lois Lane's car when she 

8. 
"Bye, Bye Baby (Baby before she recorded the disco hit stops at a gas station, just before Lex Goodbye)" "More, More, More" in 1976. Luthor's misguided missile hits the 


9. "Love Theme from 'A Star Is 6. Two senators recorded hit -San Andreas Fault? 
a 
I 



~j)()11tS~/;J;~~t~·~;L:S========;:===================w=e=d=n=es=d=~='=D=ec=e=m=b=er=l=,=19=8=2===pa=g=e=8

11 By The Observer and The Associated Press 
The ND Ski T earn has called a mandatory meeting for all wcomers and old hands to be held tonight at 6 in the LaFortune 



Sporisboard ...Frosh
Liuk Thea1re.-The Obseroer 

APTopT-ty The Top Twenty women's college basketball 

continuedfrom page 12 
teams 1n The Associated Press poll, with forst-place votes in parentheses, th1s season's records and total 
Buchanan, like Price, is no ordi­
points. Pomts based on 20-19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame 
The Irish women's track and field is recruiting opponents are italicized. naryjoe. He shot at a 57 percent clipAPTopT-ty
r. nber~ for 1ts . -l2-l:!.i ·.cason. Interested parties are asked to con­

The Top Twenty college football teams 1n The As­1. USC(42) 1-0 949 from his guard position and ta-Rose Marie h.Jdng at 6896. -The Obseroer sociated Press poll, w1th forst-place votes 1n paren­2. Louisiana Tech (6) 0-0 912 averaged over 24 points last year at theses, this season's records and total points. Po1nts 
3. Old Dominion ( 1) 1-0 859 
O'Dea High School in Seattle, Wash. 
based on 20-19-18·17 etc Notre Dame opponents 

4 Tennessee ( 1) 2-0 821 are italicized. 5. Texas 0-0 741 "Buchanan has the potential to 
6. Maryland 2-0 726 help this year not only as a leader at
1. Georg1a (52) 11-0-0 1,115 

7. Kentucky 1-0 654
2 Penn State (2) 10-1-0 1,047 point guard," says Phelps, "but also
8. Cheyney State 0-0 616 
3. Nebraska (2) 10-1-0 t,004

n ... e Notre Dame boxers announce an organiza­9. Long Beach State 0-0 559 as a defensive player who can shut
4 Southern MethodiSt 10-0-t 975 

10. Kansas State 2-0 484
t' , :almeeting ~et for tomorrow afternoon at 4 in the boxing room of 5. UCLA 9-1-1 863 people down. He can score when he
11. Penn State 1-0 437
6. Arkansas

tho.: ACC. This meeting concerns anyone interested in participating 8-t-1 831 12. Georgia 1-1 416 has to, yet his role is to run the team 
7. Pittsburgh 9-2-0 727 

13. South Carolina 0-0 371 offensively."
in the 1983 Bengal Bouts. -The Obseroer 8. Clemson 9-1-1 706 2-0
14. North Carolina State 329
9. Washington 9-2-0 543 

15. Arizona State 5-o 298
10. West Virginia 9-2-0 509 Buchanan's defensive skills
16. UCLA 3-0 264
11. Anzona State 9-2-0 

494 17. Rutgers 1-1 167 should come as no major surprise.
12. Texas 8-2-0 481 

18. MISSOUri 4-0 136 478
13. Louisiana State 8-2-1 He turned down many major­
19. Drake 3-1 99 
14 Oklahoma 8-3-0 

409 20 Mississippi 1-0 65 college football scholarships lastA free-throw contest sponsored by the American 
year as a defensive back, so that he
15. Florida State 8-2-0 348 16. usc 8-3-0 332
Cancer Society will be held at the Madison School in South Bend on 

17. Maryland 8-3-0 240 could play basketball. He was also an Saturday afternoon from 12 to 2. It is open to all ages, and prizes will 18. Ohio State 8-3-0 167 all-city selection in baseball, and was
19. Auburn 8-3-0 124
be awarded for the most tree throws made out of 50. For more in­

20. Michigan 8-3-0 116 a top sprinter for the school's track formation on registration, call the ACS at 234-4097. -TheObseroer RACQUETBALL PAIRINGS 
squad.


Games must be played, and results reported to the NVA office, by Wednesday, Dec. 8. It your name is "Anytime you have an athlete like not listed, you toave " bve and shoulo look tor your that on the floor, you've got name 1n next week ~ pa1nngs 
someone who's playing to win and 
APTopT-nty Dave Desaulniers (6864) v. M1ke Kennelly (1150) wants to be a winner," praises The Top Twenty college basketball teams 1n The Rob Bertino (1150) v Jerry Murphy (6756) 
Phelps of the 6-2, 185-pound guard.
Associated Press poll, with forst-place votes in paren­·Joe Horvath (77911 v B1ll McGowan (8810)Lacrosse coach Rich O'Learywill hold a man­theses, th1s season's records and total points. Points Steve Pasley t234·3224) v Harry Oliver (289-4274) "That's very important in putting a 
l: :>ry meeting for all tho~ wishing to play on the Notre Dame based on 20-19·18-17 etc. Notre Dame oponents are Dan Meakm (6863) v Everett Atv.ell (1535)' 
team together."

itaUcized. Scott Fox (8279) v Dan Anderson (239-8261) 
varsity this spring this afternoon at 4:30 in the ACC Auditorium. .
Tim Sch1ert (3667) v Chuck Hogan (1801) 
Tbe Ot ~ver , Putting his lith Notre Dame bas­
1. 
Virg1n.a (55) 2-0 1,245 Gary lekanaer (4388) v. Mike Michaux (4388) 

2. 
Georgetown (3) 2-0 1,140 Tony Kremer (1 059) v Jim Uhll (3889) ketball squad together will bring its 

3. 
Kentucky (21 1-0 1,024 Dave M1lla (8742) v. T1m Connors (8704) 


moment!. of triumph and frustration
4 Villanova (2) 1-0 965 Gene W1tchger 145791 v Eldred McDonell (1 056) 
5. MemphiS State 2-0 942 Andy Reardon (8592) v Ken Schmltl (8933) for Phelp~. There is certainly one
Michaeljordan'sthree-point play with I:48left in the 6. UCLA 1-0 907 Mike Joy (87031 v Ron Jones (8594) 
thing he knows about the freshman third overtime led 15th-ranked North Carolina to a 70-68 victory 7. LOUISVIlle (1) 3-0 890 Nick C1ndne (6703) v. Robert f'ov.ers (277-1776) 8 Indiana 2-0 BOO Carlos Mart1nez (8648) v. Frdnk WoscLyna (1248) 
class, though. 
overTulane in college basketball last night at Chapel Hill, N.C. It was 9. MISSOUri 

1-0 694 T1m Marten (7ci29J v. M.111 0 Toole (8324) "How quickly they adjust to the jordan's 20-foot jumper following a Green Wave turnover on an in­10. Iowa 2-0 659 Paul P1nedo (288-3051) v Felic1en Brown (3262) 
college game will determine how
11. Houston 2-0 571 Chns Hatf1eld (1064) v Ea Fullmer \287·1206)
bounds play near the end of regulation that sent the game into its 

12. St. John's 3-0 538 Dave Sobczak (1593) v Rowell Reyes (1484) much better we'll be," he says, in first overtime. Jim Braddock hit a 20-foot jumper and jordan 13. Alabama 1-0 470 Tim Hannagan (8891) v. Scotf Cade (3365) 
summation.

14. Ten. qssee 1-0 456 Jim Reed (3364) v M1ke McCabe (233-6068) 
followed with his three-point play to extend North Carolina's edge 

15. North C.-rolina 0-2 317 Roger Wilke (1479) v. Tom Cleary (1857) After this week's baptism of fire, to 68-63 in the third overtime. Buzz Peterson added a free throw to 16. Arkansas 1-0 283 John Raster (1780) v. R1ch Pans (1229) 
Notre Dame fans may be able tO 
make it a six-point margin -AP 17. Marquette 0-0 177 John Crilly (1229) v. Peter Pokorny (3287) 
18. North Carolina State 1-0 judge for themselves if this year's
175 Chip Schachner (8760) v. Michael Beaty (288-9636) 19 Oregon State 0·1 161 Dave Turner (3542) v. Mark Himsworth (1143) basketball edition !s "born again."
2o. Nevada-Las Vegas 1-0 

153 John DeFrances (1145) v. Don Shank (288-3051) 
Classifieds  The Observer wrll accept class1fieds Mon­day through Friday. 10 a.m. to 430 p.m However. classifieds to appear in the next 1ssue must be relceived by 3 p.m. the business day pnor to inst~rtion. All classifieds must be prepard. e1ther in person or through the mail.  
LOST: a blue pla1d scarf, last Tuesday a1 Corby's, Reward 11 found. call LowsNOTICES x4602 WANTED TYPING AVAILABLE RED UMBRELLA: Lost. on Monday, REALLY NEED RIDE TO CENTRAL 287-4082 November 29. between 12:15 and NEW YORK (ALBANY, UTICA,t·OOp.m. in room 300 Cushing. It .,as SYRACUSE FOR XMAS BREAK---WILLlymg on the book rack underneath the SHARE USUAL ---CALL CHRIS AT 8573 MONEY FOR SCHOOL!! We guarantee seat--three rows from the back ot the OR3510ANYTIME to find scholarships, grants, a1d which room. If you have any 1nfo that could lead you're eligible to rece1ve. AppliCation me to the whereabOuts of this, please RIDE NEEDED TO NYC: FOR XMAS matenats -$1.00. Financial A1d Finder, contact Leanne at 8983 or 7753! Please BREAK-WILL SHARE USUAL--CALl. Box 1 053-CD, Fairfield, Iowa 52556 call, or we'll have one very wet sopho­CHRIS AT 8573 OR 3510 'INYTIME more on our nands!(lt's my only umbrella Typ1ng wanted, fast. accurate. ex­nere!l) Your attention regard1nq th1s mat­WANTED; 11icket (student or GAl to Ken­penenced, reasonable and close Call ler is highly apprec1a1ed! ThanK-you. tucky vs Notre Dame. Call Dan at 277­272-4105. 3832 One •xcaptlonallv etupld and Students Interested in hlep1ng on commlt­chagrined OKIItor otthla rag haaloll hla NEED 2 PEOPLE TO SHARE N.D. APT :ees tor student conference 1n March en­graphic arts portlollo; It Ia of no value NEXT SEM 100 A MONTH CALL MIKE titled 'Justice 1n the Nuclear Future?· are to anybody but me, IMicauM only I 1376.JOHN 8858. mvated to an orgamzat1onal meeting could poaalbty julllty thla crud to Thursday, December 2 at 6:30 PM 1n anybody •• art. Nonetheless, It doea \fanted: Room 123 of Nieuwtand Science Hall. reprnent a summer's worth of profes­.. o.k this is weird ... I could use a ride to sional graphics work. and I would ap­Boston FROM Atlanta AFTER Dec. 25 LOGAN CENTER DANCE on Friday preciate ft d anybody wdh a clue ro its and then either back to Atlanta oron back night, Dec. 3. Live mulllclll Lota of fun whereabouts would calf Joe at the Ob­to school. Jeb 8630. tor VOLUNTEERS! II PLEASE attend II server or et 283-3119. you canI Thanka. Need R1de To Connecticut For Chnstmas LOST: One football Saturday afternoon at Break. Please Call Dan At 6824 anytime about the 2 yard-line of the LA colliseum .If found please contact Michael Harper c/o NEED RIDE TO BOSTON FOR XMASLOST/FOUND the University of Southern California. calf EILEEN at 7178 Green Flight Jacket lost/stolen in K. of C. Need RIDERS from Southern California LOST: ONE GOLD MEN'S CHAIN on Friday night at The California Party. after Christmas vac. Call Bob at x1681. Might have been lost in the ACC on Mon­Please call af1er 5:00. Reward. 289-8651, day 11/15 Please call David at x6931. ask for Dan. ONE TIRE JACK WITH THE NAME MARGARET ON IT. CALL 2~725 I 'L.__·_FO_R_SA_L_E___,JFOR RENTLost: A Bulova, Gold rimmed Watch. It has a scratch mark on the face plate next ._______________. Couches. $30 & up; Chairs, $5 & up. Call to the numeral nine. Lost on Stepan Field Mrs. Cooper at 272-3004 af1er 12 on 11117/82 aHernoon. II found please Student Housing · Clean -Sate. noon.Free delivery to dorm. call George at 1418. $100/mo. 291-1405. '77 VW Rabbit XCLNT conditon.Owner LOST • N. Y ISLANDERS jacket at SPACIOUS ONE BEDROOM UNFUR­f1nanced.Calt 277-6726 Corby's several weeks ago. Calli 7781 -NISHED APT. GARAGE BSMT. reward. UTIUTIES INC. EXCEPT ELEC. L.W.W. TEAC A 107 cassette deck 277-8741 S. BEND 240.00 A MONTH PLUS FOUND: One very sickly ma1ze-cotored DEPOSIT 287-5535 umbrella and one semi-ugly turquOise pulloveqacket (with your set of keys in the 2-BED pocket). All merchandise found at the Apt. heat air TICKETS Progressive Musik Club party af1er y'all payed,appliances,hardwood lef1 them in your boppm' frenzy. Call Rab­floors,$250 mo.123 s. Eddy 233-8441 bi at 3479 to claim. NEED 2 STUDENT OR GA TIX FOR Room tor rent for female grad or law stu­KENTUCKY GAME. ASK FOR JOHN, LOST: A small stenng silver rosary; ff dent in NO Ave. Apts. $180 plus electriC. 1768. found call Julie at x283-6803. Has a great Call Madeleine at 287-4844 after 11. deal of sentimental value. FOR SALE: 2 WHO TIX FOR THEIR Clean, well kept 3&4 bedroom homes, ap­DEC. 8 CONCERT. BEST OFFER 1195. 50$ Reward For Lost SMC Class Ring. pliances furnished, gas heat, garages Please Call 5524 225.00-275.00 288-6721 NEED KENTUCKY,UCLA,IU GA TICK­ETS.PETE 232-1466 FOUND-Set of Keys, room 324, at SMC. 4 room single, appliances & majOr utilities II yours call Glenn at 3248 and identity furnished, good neighborhood 150.00 FOR SALE: UCLA Student tkt CAL~ key chain 288-6721 8824  THE WHO LIVE I GREAT SEATS for sale now Chi Dec 8 call287-9342 or 272-9321 between 11 am-9pm FOR SALE: ONE UCLA STUDENT TICK­ET LOWER ARENA WILL SELL TO BEST OFFER. CALL TIM 6988 PERSONALS NOTRE DAME'S AND SAINT MARY'S FAVORITE MORNING SHOW RETURNSIILISTEN TO THE ALL RE­QUl:Sl'­. MID-MORNING BREAK FRIDAY FROM.10AM TO 11AM ON WSNDAM64tlt WSND REMOTES.NO ONE DOI;S IT BETTERII Performera: Be In the right place at the right tlmal Studenta win caah, acholar­ahlpa, an overMaa tour, audltlona by major companies, much morel Enter ACTS! Box 3ACT, NMSU, Laa Cruces, NM 88003, (505) 6*4413. If it Isn't KENTUCKY, it isn't baskelball. -­Kentucky Dan. Go Wildcats, beat lrlshl KENTUCKY KENTUCKY KENTUCKY KENTUCKY KENTUCKY KENTUCKY What's Big and Blue and eats skinny little Irishmen as appetizers? KENTUCKY WILDCATS!!! Go Derrick, go Jim, go Mel­vin, go Tom, go Todd, go Bret, go Dirkll Joe B. Joe B. Joe B. WILDCATS WILDCATS WILDCATS Students Interested help1ng on commit­tees for student conference in March en­titled "Just1ce in the Nuclear Future?" are invited to an orgamzational meeting Thursday, December 2 at 6:30 PM in Room 123 iif t~~~~and Science Hall. a:·wi;~i·d~-v~~·!i~i;~-p~i~~"E'iii~ AL on the 5 year plan? A. ''B0$1,41i100M" Nickodemus. .•.~~~...:;:: "" • 0 0 00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 000 0 0 0 0 uo 0 0 0 0 0 • • ' • • • • • • •;.; , ...'(", < 0 >0 o' OYO ....~ • • • NEED RIDE 1'011 21'0 O'HARE F!IJDAY-THE 3rd ABL1 TO LEAVE AT 2:30. WILL SHARE USUAL CALLJO£AT-1067 WANTED One date (perterably tem8Je) tor John "the Hulk" Wightkin. Good Pay along with Great Benefits! Those under 6'5" need not apply. ON GOLDEN POND Wlnrwr of 3 Academy AwW11a Dec3Aht7,11A11  MIDNIGHT EXPRESS... Nov 30, Dec 2. The Independent etudant newspaper 7:00, 9:15, 11 :30PM Sponsored by t:he Mrvlng Notre Dame and Saint NO Rugby Club. Mary's. . .THE OBSERVER IS your newspaper How can THE OBSERVER better serve the Notre Dame/Sa1ntPHILADELPHIA CLUB Mary's community? Do you have 1 XMAS BUS s1gn-ups and ELECTIONS optmons. compla1nts. suggestions for the Sunday, 12/5 at 6:30 in Lafortune Little paper? Come to our very first GENERAL Theatre. Interested candidates call Chuck READERSHIP MEETING Monday, Dec.288-0725 6 at 6:30 1n the Library Auditonum. Stu­dents, faculty. and admimstrators of Notre Need R1de to or near Wilm. De. tor Xmas. Dame and Saint Mary's are encouraged Please call Mary 284·5443 to attend Atlanta! SENIOR SKI TRIPI! $15 Dapoalt due Atlanta! Dec. 1 or 2, 6:30-7:30,' 1et Floor atlanta? Lafortune. Don't ml11 1111 I need one ride there and back again for Christmas break. Can you give me a ncle? Please call Jab at 8630 Thank you. In the great paradox of life, when all seems hOpeless all hope 1S not lost. Remember this. Need Round Trip R1de To Connecticut For Chnstmas Break Will Share Usual. Please Call Dan At 6824 anytime CIAO SUSAN r.tCENTEE ... H,.,ppy 21sl BIRTHOAYIIIIII The Room.... XV 12 LOG 168, 1 Guess whose happy birthday it 1s???RONDA LYNN SCHAFER1s the b1g 19 today! Call her at MACARONIIll 3891 and give her your best (that includes Happy 19th Birthday to the you D.C.) Love ya, Big R.tDorothy wild and fun PangbOrn boy­all know and love. Admiringly,HAPPY BIRTHDAY RONDA Your Fan Club SCHAFERIIIII!II hope your tirst b-day at NO is FANTASTIC. Gee, is your b-day wish to be IL con?? Love& Kisses JSP RIDERS needed to Flonda (1-75 to Fla turnp1ke to Lauderdale) at X-mas. Would ATTENTION S.M.C.-'Bored with mmd­like to leave 12/20 but would leave 12/21 less dorm parties? Tired of the teeny-bop if necessary. SUE-6736 of good old South Bend? Want to meet .................................."'/ ..................... some delightful neo-Domers who fov,e to bop? SENIORS/SENIORS/ RUDOLPH THE RED-NOSED REINDEER SAYS: JINGLE ff yes to any of the above questions, join BELLS AND EGGNOG AWAIT YOU ATthe Notre Dame ProgresSive Musik Club/If TIPPECANOE ON THURSDAY, DECEMBER 9.Sign-ups will be in the lobby of SAGA throughout the feeding hours on THURSDAY and FRIDAY. Don't miss rt. TO ALL THUSI: INTERESTED IN Some of you have just about missed "'· WORKING FOR AN TOSTAL: lnterv1ews tor posilio~s on the Executive Com•ttee are December 7,8,9 Make an appoint­Fight on For old SC Because they pay ment wrth the Student GovernmentThe ret secretary NOW• Any questiOns: Call Jay ....'..;···~..~·-,~-~.!; ~·.l.i~· ..7' ···Jd";i,..'''' Reidy at 239-7668 That's right, Sugar. It's me again. I stiH love you. ian P.S. ima!jine my ·ember­DearL1sa, rimiss. Happy 18th Birthday! ...........................................:......:...........· Luv, Eiten B . It's YOUR OBSERVER. THE ()8..' SERVER will conducl a general m•eting tor its readers on Monday, Decem!)$• 6 at R1an "I hate linebackers" Gorey 6:30 p.m. in the Libr~r,y Auditorium. The Hope your day Is picture perfect! Hap­staff ir .vites students, faculty meml3ers. py Birthday! admir.istration memberS, and the·publicto Ms. Lingu•stiCs come to this genefal readership metlling. Come wrth complaints, questions, or sug­gestions. IT'S GOOD TO BE HOMEIIII '·~""" ~ ' " """"".." ol "•""·'~ '!"..•' •""•• • •., •• •~ ...  

The Observer Wednesday, December 1, 1982-page 9 

ship in Columbus. Saturday's gave

Cincinnati Moeller coach Steve Klonne is 
Moeller, the top-ranked high school team in the

carried offthe field by his players after defeating 
nation, its sixth title in eightyears. ( AP Photo)

Massillon for the Division I Ohio state champion-
Tonight at AAF 
0-2 Belles face Huntington 

By DAVE IRWIN 
Sports Writer 
And Digger Phelps thinks he begins his week tonight againf• the Kentucky Wildcats. 
Saint Mary's coach Mtke Rouse may be facing even a worse stretch, comparatively speaking, than the one Phelps will be trying to con­quer. 
The Belles will play three games in the next four days beginning tonight at 7 against Huntington Col­lege at the Angela Athletic Facility. 
Saint Mary's then travels to the Goshen Tournament to tackle Franklin Friday night at 8:30 and Bet­hel Saturday afternoon at 2:30. Franklin and Huntington are Divi­sion II schools, meaning they can of­fer scholarships, with Franklin being a power. Saint Mary's is listed at the NAIA level. 
"The schedule will get tougher in terms of talent," acknowledges Rouse. "We're going against some tough competition." 
While Phelps will be facing the likes of national powers Kentucky, UCLA and Indiana, he will be doing it with all-America guard john Paxson and a much improved supporting cast featuring the kiddie corps that has propelled the Irish to a 2-0 start. 
Rouse, meanwhile, will take an 0­2 record into tonight's contest after dropping a 69-61 decision to Sienna Heights on :'llovember 23. To make things more difficult for Rouse, start­ing cemer Missy Van Ort injuried her hand in the season opener, al­though she did play against Sienna Heights. 
"She will probably continue to play until it heals," says Rouse. "But it really affects her play." 
Van Ort, a 6-0 center, tallied seven points and a team-high nine rebounds before fouling out against Sienna Heights. 
But the injury 'to Van Ort, the Belles' second leading scorer with a l 2. =; average; wasn't the big dif­ference against Sknna Heights -or Kalamazoo Valley Community Col­lege in the opener. 
"Both games we didn't get beat b~::cause of talent," says Rouse. "We're getting beat by alot of men­tal mistakes." 
Elaine Suess has emerged as the lklles top scorer with a 17-point per game average. Cindy Short and Trish :\olan are averaging in double figures with averages of 11 and 10.5 per game, respectively. 


"We're making a lot of steals and recoveries," says Rouse. "We just can't seem to sustain the effort for 20 minutes." 
The Belles' style of play, lack of depth and inexperience have played a big role in their 0-2 start. 
''I'm not sure if they have our of­ktbc down where they feel com­tllrt;.ble," says Rouse. "They're not reacting to where the opening is. 
"l think we'll he all right, but I'm not sure if the schedule will reflect it. The girls have never played with each other before. It will take time, hut I saw improvement in that one g;tme we pla) ,·d." 
Beginning 1 tight the Belles, like Digger's squad. will see juM how far they have progr<·~sed. 

NFLPA strikevote postponed once agairi 
WASHINGTON (AP) Negotiators attempting to resolve differences in the tentative agree­ment which ended the National Football League players' strike ap­parently made some headway yes­terday, but a vote by player representatives was put on hold for at least another day. 
"Five or six issues still have to be resolved," Frank Woschitz, a spokes­man for the players union, said last night after talks had ended with an agreement to meet again. 
Woschitz said that Management Council negotiators would attend the funeral today of Pittsburgh Steeler owner Art Rooney's wife Kathleen, who died Sunday, and were uncertain ifthey would be able to meet with union officials later in the day or tomorrow. 
The union spokesman said the vote by the player reps, originally scheduled for Monday, would be held either late today or tomorrow. 
Woschitz declined to be specific about the talks, but when the two sides met Monday night, about two dozen issues were still to be resolved in the agreement reached N~v. 16. The union has raised a series of objections to various clauses in the proposed five-year, S1.6 billion package. 
jack Donlan, the owners' chief negotiator, said a "complete and to­tal agreement" had been reached on Nov. 16-the union insisted it was only a draft and had to be refined ­and the management council representing the owners said it would not bargain further over what was agreed to then. 
Nevertheless, Donlan, the ex­ecutive director of the management council, and union chief Ed Garvey and their aides met Mm1day night and yesterday in an attempt to finalize the agreement. 
The league's 28 player reps were to be polled by telephone, to be asked to pass along to the NFL's 1,500 players the agre....mc::m with a recommendation to accept or reject it. The rank and file was to vote on Friday. 
If the players ultimately vote to reject the owners' offer, they will also be deciding whether to go back 

... 
on strike or to continue playing while negotiations resume -ex· cept that management says there will be no resumption of negotia­tions and, according to Donlan, "the owners will have to reassess their position if the players fail to ratify the contract." 
t';•n of the agreement cilb for .1 S60 million ca~h honu~ of ~ l 0 0011 to ~(.0,000 h>r each plaH·r. The owner~ ~ay that would llt· wnhdrawn it the players Uti Ill an· prove. Further, managc.nent in.~i,t~. th~ l':)H2 ~CI~Oll \\'Oillc! bl' lt:d•JCc,! 
from nint: to eight gam~::~. tht· pial of!' fidd would drop !rom l (> 10 l \l tram~ and post~~::ason pay wou;d re·nain at 19H. kiTh in~tt•ad ot being douhkd if the pht\Tr. rej.:CI the propo,ed contract. 

Support 
March of Dimes 
THIS SPAC:f CONTRIBUTED BY THE PUBLISHER 


WORDSYSTEMS 
Professional Typing and Word Processing Seruice 
* Academic/Research Manuscripts Student 
* Term Papers ·Theses · Dissertations Discounts 
* 
Publications ·Articles/Books * Mass Mailings

* 
Resumes .Disc Storage *Spelling Corrections

* 
Personalized Multiple Original Letters


*Membership Rosters/ Bulletins/ Newsletters 14 Hour Phone·ln Dictation Seruice 
FREE PICK·UP AND DEliVERY SERVICE AVAILABLE Phone: (219) 171-8355 

I I I I I I 
: lnuitational Meeting I Anyone interested in seruing
1 
on acommittee for the March 25-26 
""" Student Conference is inuited to ·an organizational meeting on Thursday. 

I
• I 
I -December 2. Room 123. Nieuwland Science Hall. I I
I Conference is under the auspices of the 1 : Center for Social Concerns. I 



·------------------------1
.ll.!!!9..t.J...l.J!.9l!!s.l!!.:.. 1718 South Bend Ave. -at the Butler's Pantr,y (walking distance from campus) •otre Damellaint •uy's Student Special 

12 exposure film $8.80 double print of each negative includes processing wlstudent photo I.D. 
•otre DameiSaint Mary's Special$ 

•••••}~!~!'~~~~~n.~~·~lli0~tava ••••• • 
STUDENT­AID. 
It takes more than 
brains to go to college. It 
takes money. For tui­
tion, room and board, 
and books. 
The Army College 
Fund is designed to help 
you get that money for 
college while serving your 
country. 
Ifyou qualify, you can 
join the Army College 
Fund when you join the 
Army. For every dollar 
you put in, Uncle Sam 
puts in five. Or more. 
So, after just two 
years in the Army, you 
can have utJ to $15,200 
for college. After three 
years, up to $20, 100. 
To get your free . 
copy ofthe Army College 
Fund booklet, call or 
visit your local Army 
Recruiter. It could be the 
most important book 
you've ever read. 
SFC Hamilton 234-4187 
ARift 
.ALLlOU CAM._ 


The Observer Sports Special-Irish vs. Kentucky Wednesday, December 1, 1982-page 10 


'Cats come back to 'snakepit'--33 years later 
The last time a Kentucky basketball team set foot on the Notre Dame campus, Harry Truman was President, unemploy­
·nt was 4 percent, and Digger Phelps was a little nine-year­
'Jrat growing up in Beacon, N.Y. 
sbeenalmost 33 t years-January23, 1950, to be exact­,;.~•! the Wildcats last payed a visit here. On that cold, winter night, Notre Dame, then 6-5, upset a 10-2 Kentucky team, 64­; 1, before a raucous crowd at the Old Fieldhouse. 
"Exams or not, the students turned out en masse to cheer :I'Jd spur on the locals to their best game of the season," said r1 .ejanuary 28, 1950, issue ofScholastic. 
After the game, the late Adolph Rupp, Kentucky's crusty, legendary coach, vowed never to bring his team back here, mumbling something about the crowd being so loud that he wasn't even able to talk to hb players. 
Rupp clearly had had enough Two seasons before, in 1948, 1-Je brought to the Fieldhouse a Wildcat team that would win the naLional. championship, the Olympic gold medal, and would come to be called "the greatest collegiate team ever assembled." 
"The students st.J.rted screaming at the first whistle, and never stopped," said Scholastic. Kentucky lost, 64-55. 
~s it is with most tales of yore on this campus, this story has ••u.:n twisted and convoluted over the years. Yes, Rupp did complain about the Fieldhouse crowd being too loud that night in 1950. 

"He was one of my best friends in sports," says Krause. " \fi:er the game, we'd go out somewhere, sit around and have :. iew drink!>. Our f:~'ls were never abusive toward him, though. He just thought they were too loud.'' 
Kentucky and !\:otre Dame have squared off 28 times since 1950, in various and 'undry places like Lexington, Ky., Columbus, O!liu, the Cl••cago Stadium, and of course Louis­ville -nu. nez•e,· i.cre. 
"The ueal .o pl:!y m Louisville was one of the best deals financially we've ever made," says Krause of the agreement which made Freedom Hall the site where ND and UK have phyecl t:\ ery ~cason since 1960. "We made 15 to 20 thousand : .•eet:, wh.ch wa:, ~ood money in those days.'' 
Now it's December 1, 1982. Ronald Reagan has made a mess of the economy; the unemployment rate has reached double digits; Digger Phelps is now a respected 12-year college coach (although some feel he's still a brat). 
And Kentucky is back. 
Will the ACC become a ''snakepit" tonight? 
Will the students "start screaming at the first whistle?" 
Will the students "tum out en masse to cheer and spur on the locals?" 
Will the students' loud and incessant cheering chase an in­timidated Joe B. Hall back to Lexington, vowing never to return? 
You can bet the house on it. 
• • . Freshmen 
continuedfrom page 12 
Both were selected to the pres­tigious 25-man McDonald's High School all-America squad last year, and both are being heavily counted on to improve last year's disappoint­ing team rebounding statistics in which the Irish failed to outrebound the opposition in 66 percent of its games. 
The lithe 6-10, 205-pound Bar­low, with his finesse style ofplay, has already proven his value to the team. Not only has he shot a perfect 11-of­11 from the field in the Stonehill and St. Francis victories, but he also played a combined 68 minutes in the two games, tying him for the team leadership in that department with the peerlessjohn Paxson. 
Barlow, who hails from In­dianapolis, has already been compared with former Notre Dame great Orlando Woolridge not only because ofh tis physical stature, but from his style ofplay. 
"He's not afraid to block shots, and he's not afraid to play," says Phelps. "He may end up ahead of a Toby Knight or Orlando Woolridge 
It
,,; 
,,, 
in terms of progress because he'll probably play more this year than either ofthem did as freshmen. Ifhe works as hard as those two did, which I think he will, he'll turn into 
an excellent front-line player." 
The 6-9, 225-pound Kempton is the perfect complement for the smooth Barlow up front. He is the classic hard-nosed power foward that the squad lacked last year. IfBar­low is a reminder ofWoolridge, then Kempton may be a clone of Kelly Tripucka He is an inside power player who yet possesses a fine, soft outside touch (he has hit 5 of6 field goal attempts this year). 
"Tim Kempton has got to be the workhorse of the front line," says Phelps of the Bayville; N.Y., native. "He's physical, he's powerful, and he's put on 10 pounds of muscle since school started. He has a knowledge of the game, and he doesn't back down from anything. 
"He can score for us, hit the boards for us, and play post defense when he has to because he is our most physical player.'' 
Dolan, a 6-8 foovard from Point Pleasant, N.J., has been a pleasant 

Chris Needles 
Sports Editor 
Yes, Rupp also complained when the "'otre Dame band was strategically placed right behh1d the Kentucky bench. And, yes, he complained when the band never stopped playing all game long. 
Whether Rupp was ever called a "drunkard," or ever had anything thrown at him while at the Fieldhouse, though, may be stretching the story a little. However, knowing the nature ofthe Notre Dame sports fan, it might not be that far-fetched. 
Edward "Moose" Krause, Notre Dame's athletic director emerims who wa~ the Irish basketball coach from 1946 to 1951, has fond memories ofhis battles with Rupp. 
"He used to hate that little gym," recalls Krause. "He called it a 'snakepit.' He would complain about it being too loud and that he couldn't talk to his players because the students would be shouting. 
"He would look anoss the way and see all the priests sitting there, and he would ~ay, 'With 400 black robes praying over there, there's no way you can win here.' He even blamed me for putting the band behind the bench.'' 
But, in contrast to the obvious animosity that exists be­tween Digger Phelps andjoe B. Hall, Krause calls Rupp one of his closest frit: .1ds. 

point of the preseason according to  get  the  key  rebound  when  you  "Price will help us in the mold ofa  
Phelps.  While  his  31-point,  14­ thought Kempton was going to get  Tracyjackson," Phelps says ofVagas  
rebound average in high school indi­ it, or you'll see him make a key one­ Ferguson's cousin.  "He  has  great  
cates fine potential, it doesn't tell the  on-one when you thought Paxson  shooting ability within  his range,  
real story ofhis most outstanding at­ was going to do it.''  :md hopefully that range will be 16 ·  
tribute.  Price and Buchanan, meanwhile,  c:o 18 feet. He goes to the basket real­ 
"Jim Dolan might be the surprise  will provide substantial aid in the  ly well in one-on-one situations and  
ofthe freshman because he's such an  backcourt.  that's something we haven't had in a  
intelligent basketball player," says  The 6-5, 195-pound Price from  while.  
Phelps.  "He  knows the game,  he  Marion, Ind., is capable of playing  "He knows he's got some work to  
doesn't make mistakes, he's an ex­ either the big guard orsmall forward  do  defensively,  but  he's  a  very  
cellent passer and a good outside  roles -thereby leading to another  strong, physical player for his size.''  
shooter.  Before the year  is  over,  comparison with  a  former  Notre  
you'll see him in key situations. He'll  Dame great.  See FROSH, page 8  


Will Xmas come early for Digger? 
Every December, sure as the snow flies, Digger Phelps would sit down and make his Christmas list. And 

CraigClval
each year, Digger would ask for the same three things. 

He'd usually get his first wish just in time for Christmas: that all of his players would study hard, pass their final exams and maintain their eligibility, so Digger would have at least a fighting chance to beat ~earns like UCLA and San Francisco, where the only , '.igibility the players were concerned about was for 17 or more games," Phelps says. "We lost 17 last year, 1ood stamps. and ifwe can flip-flop that, we'll be happy.'' 
Then, by the time the path through the snow from With five impressive newcomers, all-America guard Farley to the North Dining Hall was shoulder-deep, the John Paxson might get a little help this year. A year ago, Irish would win their 20th game of the season, and Paxson looked likt: he was playing one-on-five when Digger would have his second wish. Not long after that, things were going well. When his teammates were Digger and the boys would get an invitation from the having an off night, it was more like one-on-nine. NCAA to play some exciting team like Toledo orJames Even though this new infusion of talent makes Madison. As Ed Garvey might say, these things were Digger's modified goal appear to be within reach, some etched in stone: Get everybody eligible, win 20 games hounds are still baying. and get a bid to the NCAA tournament. It seemed as if Closest to home are the skeptical students, who in 
tt chorus had been around longer than the Victory their refusal to buy tickets are once and for all forfeiting , .rch itself. their self-annointed title as the No. 1 student body in 
The refrain was a popular one, though. Eight straight the nation. If it's Kentucky, UCLA and Indiana the stu­times, Notre Dame went to the NCAA tournament. dents want to see, they should have enrolled there. Once during those eight years, the Irish slipped and For his part, Phelps is far more charitable. won only 19 games. Another time or two, one of "It's typical offan~ everYwhere," he says. "Especially Digger's boys wouldn't study hard enough, and he'd be students. It's a combinati(H, of things, including the banished to the end of the bench to watch the games economy."· with the chaplain. Farther from home, Notre Dame's schedule is getting 
But Digger was a very good boy for all ofthose years, a reaction just the opposite from the students' apathetic and so Santa Claus was very good to his team. response. But even if the Irish schedule iSfoS soft as the 
Last year, though, Digger hadn't been as good as he detractors claim, Notre Dame will be better -if no­should have been, so Santa didn't fill his locker room thing else, the coach is smarter. with everything he asked for. Judging by the smell com­"I learned that you've got to have players who can ing from the ACC last winter, Santa must have caught compete when you play the kind of schedule we do," Digger playing demolition derby with the Ten Com­laughs Phelps. "So recruiting plays a part in it." mandments. The lump he found in his stocking wasn't 
Phelps' team picked up a valual>le lesson as well. 
coal. 

"Our players learned not to quit," he says. "TheyEven though Digger realized that some of his boys didn't quit when we were 2-9, and they came back to gohad trouble playing and some of his boys had trouble 8-8 over the last 16 games.'' 
studying and some ofhis boys had trouble doing either, Phelps is undaunted that there may be those who, in he still thought he could get to the NCAA tournament. 

spite ofseasons of6-20, 18-12 and 26-3 in his first three "We'll steal20 wins," said Digger, sounding for all the years at Notre Dam,~. are skeptical about the coach or world like the Grinch who stole Christmas. But, alas, the program.
Digger found that he wasn't Fagan, and short ofpacking 

"I know we're gonna be good again," he says simply. guns, his boys just couldn't pull off the heist. Who's kid­
"There are still a lot of question marks about this ding who -John Dillinger would have been over­
team," he says of the squad which must face Kentucky, matched. 
UCLA and Indiana in the next week. "But we'll know a It's December once again, and Digger is making out 
lot more by D< mber 8." another list. But he's changed it a little. And ifhe hur , Di~cr will still have time to change "Our goal c:his year is to do one thing, and that's win 
his Christmas I · . 




The Notre Dame Student Union presents: 


r·~i~~];~··auo···N·ir·E.... 
the Midwest's hottest band 

ISV at Senior Bar
Ticftets Auailable




Duke Tumatoe 
at Student Union 

I T-Shirtand Signi• Giveaways 

and the 

All-Star Frogs r:o:~~~ 
•

Saturday, December 4 10°0 S 11 3" 

Idoors open at 9:30
$2 In Chautaugua LaFortune Ballroom 

•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••.•••••••••••••••11•• 
J 

Ibe~============================~====== 





T0 dax=============w=e=d=n:;::e=s=d=ay='=n=e=c=e=m=b=e=r=I=,=I=9=s=2==P=a=g=~=I::;I
Doonesbury 
MAYBt. 
M!HO IAIAKTS 7D KJIOIAJ? 
0 

Aspirin Man 

T 0 
-r 
H 
E' 
s 
A 
e 
0 
I 
E 
(A 
~ 
(S) 
ACROSS 28 Festoon 
1 Kind of 30 Prone milk 33 Farm unit 5 Helen's 34 Topnotch abductor 36 Northern =-..,..,..,--.,.,:-=--~-. 10 Shaker abode contents 38 Movledom .,.,....-+--+-+-~ 14 Staffer 41 Bivouac 15 Cognizant units 
...,...-+--+-+-~ 16 Copycat 42 Out ofthe 17 Rue-Palx breeze 18 Philippine 43 Prior to 
Island 44 Superlative 19 Minuscule suffix 20 Jalousie's 45 Respite 
cousin 47 Matt Dillon 23 Detect portrayer 1--+--+~ 24 Electrified 49 NBA's particle Unseld-+--+-+--+--1 25 Substance 50 Bumpkin 



The Daily Crossword 
Tuesday's Solution 

©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 1211112 All Rights Reserved 
lZ/1/82 


6p.m. 16 Z2 
CO#TitACT'S ~ 

28 S£ 8lOI'\E N YOIJ 
34 
6:30p.m. 16
KNow/ 

zz 
Z8
I 


34 
7p.m. 16 
zz 
28 34 
7:30p.m. 16 22 28 34 
8p.m. 16 22 Z8 
34 9p.m. 22 51 lntroduc· 22 Straight 
Z8 tory event thinking 
34 
57 Cotton 25 Dull finish 

9:30p.m. 22 
bundle 26 Longings 

10p.m. 16 
58 Soundof 27 City on the 

Z2
distress Adlge 

28
59 Mr. Sharif 28 Fishhook 

llp.m. 16
6f Everso tie-on 

22
long 29 Lived 

28
62 Hamltup 30 Coeurd'­

34
63 Pleasing 31 Odlstand 

11:30p.m. 16
64 What's left sonneteer 

22
65 -alive! 32 -down 66 Unltof (softens) 

28
progress 35 Facial shape 

12p.m. 28 
!2:30p.m. 16 1 Blue 39 Rlverreel 2 Cltyonthe estate Dnieper 40 Liners' 
DOWN 37 Progeny 
B • 

3 Not In use routes flan 4 Welfare 46 Habits 
NewsCenter 16 
22 Eyewitness News 
Newswatch 28 
3-2-1 Contact 
NBC Nightly News 
CBS News 
ABC'S World News Tonight 
Over Easy 
M• A•s• H 
Laverne and Shirley 
joker's Wild The MacNciVLehrer Report All in the Family Family Feud Tic Tac Dough Straight Talk Notre Dame Basketball Seven Brides for Seven Brothers Tales of the Gold Monkey Straight Talk Special Edition Alice The Fall Guy Who Killed the lindberg Baby Filthy Rich Quincy Tucker's Witch Dynasty NewsCenter 16 22 Eyewitness News Newswatch 28 The Dick Cavett Show Tonight Show Archie Bunker's Place/CBS Late Movie ABC News Nightline 

-
ABC Late Night News 
Late Night with David Lettennan 
The saga of a f 6 month old domer. 


'fOU(j(ff 
7H&MO!Jt.Y? 
( 
o:t. O.A., HEftE'S -rH£ sc:-ooP. TH~ 
t.JAY :r $LE rr; 
r AI&D I'IY IHIJN 

STA.IP} .<'Ylllllk"Al'EDI OF CQc.~.t$-E. 
% Gd'TTA 
GO, "MAN/ 
fAIOI)t.l} I 
COM&AU.­7H6 NAY afT 
Garry Trudeau 
fXC/JSEM&, 
MIMTSH& 
ABORT
SEI.J.JNG?' 
S<FR.Y.
C'ANIG&T 
I 
ONU!Ht
50Mt,700? 
Off£R. 
I I 



Campus 
•4:15 
p.m.-Seminar, "The Woman Who Came to Dinner: Dining and Divining A Feminist 'Aesthetic," Dr. Eileen Bender, 331 O'Shaughnessy 

•4:20 
p.m. -Physics Colloquium, "The Fly's Eye Detector," Prof Pierre Sokolsky, 118 Nieuwland Science Hall 

•4:30 
p.m. -Amnesty International Meeting, 1st floor study lounge Madeleva Hall 

•7 
p.m. -Lecture, "Space Weapons vs. The Nuclear Freeze," Sponsored by NO L-5 Society, LaFortune Uttle Theatre 

•7 
p.m. -Lectures, "The Knight and the Mystical Castle," Dr. Javier Herrero, "Ms. Teresa de Avila: The Experience of the the 20th Century Through 16th Century Eyes," Rev. Dennis Gravis, Sponsored by Departments of Modern Languages and Religious Studi, Carroll Hall 

•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Heaven, Hell, Purgatory: Fact or Fiction?" Rev. Raymond Cour· C.s:"C., 115 O'Shaughnessy, Sponsored by _i)ID Thomas More Society 

•s 
p.m. -Lecture, "Sean and Myself," Mrs. Eileen O'Casey, Architecture Auditorium 

•s 
p.m. -Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Kenucky, ACC 

•8:
15 p.m. -Lecture, "Economic Principles of Vatican II," Dr. Charles Wilber, 115 O'Shaughnessy Hall, Sponsored by NO Thomas More Society 




T.V. Tonight 
standard 5 Rustle 6 Expect 7 Hindu 
deified 
hero 8 Persia, now 
9 Belgrade's 
republic 10 Took part 11 Neat as­12 Impart 13 Essay 21 Netherland's 
commune 48 Louis XIV, 
e.g. 49 Extort 50 Box for 
fruit 51 Goalie's charge 52 Rubber 
trees 53 -Ia Douce 54 Cozy comer 55 Give out 56 Grand Prix, 
e.g. 57 Preclude 60 Wash. VIP 
...... 

Wednesday, December 1, 1982-page 12



SQorts 
Kentucky returns to ND • • • at last! 
No. 3 Wildcats' first visit since 1950begins 'TheWeek' for Digger Phelps' :reborn Irish 
By RICH O'CONNOR forced the game into overtime c:ome in January and February on the before losing, 34-28. 
Sports Writer road. Melvin Turpin, a 6-11 junior who "Our weekend road games those averaged over 13 points and seven two months have us playing at Vil­
Struggling for survival after last year's 10-17 season, Notre Dame rebounds last season, returns at the lanova, at Marquette, at Maryland, at center spot for the Wildcats.
faces its first major test ofthe young UCLA, at North Carolina State and at season when No. 3 Kentucky sets "Turpin has improved immensely DePaul. These are the kind ofgames since last season," says Phelps. "He's
foot in the ACC tonight at 8 p.m. that will prove what we can be. slimmed down and become more "We've got to get more mileage
The Irish will face a Wildcat squad that lost only forward Chuck Verder­
aggressive." out of our upperclassmen," con­Joining Turpin in the starting five tinues Phelps. "The new people
ber and reserve guard Bo Lanter 
from last season's 22-8 team that tied 
will be classmate Jim Master at have never gone up against a Ken­Southeastern guard, with senior Dirk Minniefield tucky or a UCLA or an Indiana ­
for the Conference championship. at the other guard spot. Fellow that's where we need the John Pax· 
This is the tlrst time that the Uni· 
seniors Derrick Hord and Charles sons and the Bill Varners and the versity of Kentucky has appeared in Hurt man the forward spots. Tom Slubys and the Tim Andrees to the ACC, and their first trip to Notre Junior center Sam Bowie con­take advantage oftheir experience. tinues to be sidelined because of a
Dame since a 64-51 Irish win in the "Everyone we have back up front fractured shinbone suffered last
Old Fieldhouse back in 1950 (see has improved because the freshmen 
December.
related story). The Irish have won have forced them to improve. The Hord, last year's Wildcat co-MVP, 
five of the seven games played at c:ompetition we've had in practice
led his team in scoring last season
Notre Dame, but Kentucky holds a has been tremendous, and that's with a 16.3 average-achieving all­
29-15 series lead. what we've needed, but we all have 
SEC and honorable mention all­
Of course, Freedom Hall, the to be patient. The freshmen aren't 
America honors. 
"neutral" court in Louisville, Ky., going to perform miracles every"Kentucky is a Final Four team,"
where 22 ofthe last 23 Notre Dame­night on the court -and that's says Phelps. "This is the best team
Kentucky games have been played, where we've got to have additional 
they've had in 12 years. They have a
is a definite factor in this lead. help. If everyone plays his role, we 
good bench with (forwards) Kenny
"I tried to get a gym in Mishawaka c:an turn around that 1 0-1 7 record 
Walker and Bret Bearup, and their
to use as a neutral court," jokes Irish tirom a year ago. That's our goal right three guards (Master, Minniefield
Coach Digger Phelps. "But there just now." 
and Dicky Beal) make them better
wasn't one available." 
This year's Notre Dame team is
than the team that won the NCAA
In all, the Irish managed only four With an
hungry. expanded NCAA
title in 1978."
wins in Freedom Hall -the last 
tournament, 52 teams this season,
And Kentucky is just the begin­
beinga67-61 triumph in 1980when 
and its light home schedule, the pos­
ning.
Kentucky was ranked No. 1 in the sibilities for based on
survival, a
Saturday, the Irish play host to No.
country. 
blend of youthful exuberance and
6 UCLA, and No. 8 Indiana comes to
Last season a 2-4 Irish team played 
big game experience mixed by good
town Tuesday.
stall-ball with a 6-1 and highly­coaching, is excellent. 
ranked Wildcat squad, and even "We're not building our entire Each season Digger chooses a season around the Kentucky, UCLA 
theme for his team. This year's is
and Indiana games this week," says 
"Eye ofthe Tiger," the No. 1 song by
Phelps. "We have five more months 
Survivor from the hit movie Rocky
of basketball ahead of us, but these 
Ill.
games will be a measuring stick for 


Welcome to Freedotn Hall North 
us." "When a tiger is in the jungle The Irish schedule, with nine con­looking for food to ensure his sur­secutive home games plus a home vival, he gets a certain look in his
There are no excuses. 


exhibition to open the season, was eye," says Phelps. "Ifwe can get that
No amount of homework, no part-time job, no end­
designed to get the new freshmen look in our player's eyes, everyone

.SkipDesjardin
of-semester project is worth missing this game. It's j_ust 
into the system and feeling com­hungry and playing for survival, then 
too big. 
fortable. ~re'Il surprise some people this year.
"I've been waiting 12 years for this," says Digger 
"This is the kind of schedule that "I'm excited about starting the
Phelps oftonight's matchup with Kentucky. And he has 
will prepare the freshmen," says season. We all got tired oflosing last 
been talking about it for at least five. 
Phelps of Ken Barlow, Tim year, and the enthusiasm the fresh­
"What I want to do is have a one-time-only deal 
Kempton, Joe Price, Joe Buchanan men have added has helped us all.

where seats are first-come, first-served," he told a wide­ville's Trattaria Mateo restaurant. No more I~ng nights' 
and Jim Dolan. "We should be able We don't really have any idea just

eyed group offreshmen in the fall of 1978. "It'll be just reliving the Io,sses in a room at the Executive Inn. In 
to build confidence early, and that's how good this Notre Dame team can

like that Maryland game when we got all the snow. The fact, after toni'ght, there will likely be no more Ken­
important when you're coming offa be, but I think we'll have fun watch­

students will be all the way around the court. They tucky. Unless the NCAA tournament matches the two 
10-1 7 season. But the real test will i][}g it develop."

won't be able to hear themselves think." teams up, this will be the last meeting. 
In 1978, a Kentucky-Notre Dame game in South Bend For Phelps, the memories are painful. Dwight Ander­was just a dream. The Irish were mired in a 1 0-year con­son ignites to destroy a nine-point Irish lead. Kyle Macy f tract that called for a game every year in Louisville. runs up, down, and around the Notre Dame defense, 
I Frosh receiv~~ roughFreedom Hall was supposed to be a "neutral sight." But scoring at will. Rick Robey and Sam Bowie slam dunk. the fact was that rabid UK fans, hungry for their sole In the last two seasons, things have changed a little. annual view of the Wildcats, packed the arena to the Kentucky was ranked No. 1 in country two years ago. tune of10,000 people -just for the team's practice the The Irish hadn't beaten them in six tries. But Kelly initiation thlf week day before the games. Tripucka was six-of-six from the foul line in the last two Phelps lUted the arrangement, to which he had minutes as Notre Dame pulled off another of its fabled ByLOUIE SOMOGYI rc:ceived mixed preseason reviews. agreed in a fit of bad judgment early in his career. He upsets, 67-61. Sports Writer On one hand they have been called desperately wanted the Wildcats to get a taste of their Last season, Phelps gave the Louisville faithful a the saviors for Notre Dame basket­own medicine. going-away present. His players, in the midst of a dis­Baptismal rites scheduled for the ball fortunes; on the other hand, So he requested another contract. astrous road trip, were hopelessly outmatched. So they next six days begin tonight at 8 p.m. skeptics say that banking on five Kentucky refused to sign if it meant playing in the held the ball. At one point they threw over 200 straight for five new members of the Notre fi"eshmen for a turnaround in ACC. passes. Wildcat fans were outraged, Hall was furious, Dame community. fortunes is a major 5ymptom of Phelps demanded. and at the end of regulation, the two teams were tied, The site, however, will not be naivete. The Wildcats held out. 23-23. Sacred Heart Church, but the Ath­Notre Dame head coach Digger Phelps threatened to blow the lid on the deal. "I'll tell As they had so often in the past, however, the Irish letic and Convocation Center. The Phelps will be the first one to tell everyone from here to Los Angeles that Joe B. Hall is lost again to Kentucky. substance for induction will not be you that there will be some growing afraid to play me here," he said at the time. The dreams will die hard. holy water, but fire in the form of pains during the1 course ofthe year That seeme<J to do the trick. But now it's reality. After the losses and the upsets three of the best teams in college by the freshmen. Yet, Phelps can't The two schools signed a two-year contract, in which and the negotiations, the two teams play here. basketball today. hide the enthusiastic optimism that they agreed to play once in the state of Kentucky, and Moreover, Digger Phelps and Joe B. Hall -two men Well, it may not be a religious bap­he holds for the improvement by the once in the state ofIndiana But the Wildcats got some who openly and genuinely dislike each other -will tismal service, but there will be still entire squad which will be en­small measure of revenge. They insisted that the first sqaure off. And you must see it. a lot of "sign's of the cross" in the hanced by the special roles of each game of the deal be played in Louisville -just like the Don't worry about the paper that's due -it can wait stands, by the radio, or on the bench freshman. previous 11 had been. until later tonight. Don't worry about watching by Notre Dame partisans, who have While all five will be asked to "I didn't care," Phelps says. "I got them to agree to "Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer" -it'll be on again long awaited the initiation of five make major contributions during come here. That's all I wanted." ' next year. Don't even worry about not having a ticket -talented freshmen into the real the course of the year, the spotlight All he wanted. After the heartbreak and the disap­there are ways around that, too. (You are, after a!~ world ofcollege basketball. riight now is focused on Barlow and pointment of more than a decade, Phelps now has that supposed to be "the best and the !brightest" this nation The arrivial ofTim Kempton, Ken Kempton, two frontline players who which he has wanted more than anything but that has to offer and possessed ofwonderful imaginations.) Barlow,Joe Buchanan,Joe Price and have earned their starting positions 



elusive national championship. Kentucky is coming to Tonight is the night for which so many have waited so Jim Dolan (which, as a group, has in the pre-season.
.. 
the ACC. long. been ranked in the top five in the na­There will be no more post-game dinners at Louis-There are no excuses. tion by most publications) has See FRESHMAN, page 10 
-----~-------··-------------­



