

.Irish Extra -pa e 11 
'OL. XVll, NO. 53 __ , the imkpcntknt .,tudcnt Ill"'-' "paper st.:n ing notre Jamc and ~amt mal')-~ FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1982 
-
Reagan comments on future U.S. -U.S.S.R. rela­tions, and on page 3 Brezhnevfuneral plans and Carol Camp's exclusive interview on Brezhnev reactions are featured. ( AP Photo) 
Search for peace 
v.,-.~. 

still Reagan's goal 
WASHINGTON (AP)-President peaceful moves, Reagan said with a Reagan assured the Soviet Union smile, "It takes two to tango." yesterday night that he hopes for a On the domestic front, Reagan better superpower relatoonship "in acknowledged there is "under dis­a dangerous time" following the cussion" a Cabinet proposal to boost death of President Leonid I. gasoline taxes by five cents per gal­Brezhnev. lon in order to rebuild the nation's 
In a nationally broadcast news decaying bridges and highways and conference, Reagan declared, "Our create jobs in the face of 10.4 per­goal is and will remain a search for cent unemployment., But no deci­peace." sion has been made, he said. 
The president said he intends to "We think we are on the right keep pushing for a treaty to reduce course," the president said of his strategic nuclear weapons. But "we economic program. should not delude ourselves," he In an obvious reference to said. "Peace is a product ofstrength, Democratic calls for a multibillion­not weakne!>S." dollar public works program. 
Reagan indicated that Vice Presi­Reagan declared, "We are doing dent George Bush probably would those things that we think are head the U.S delegation to proper. We are not going to go down Brezhnev's funeral. As for why he the dead-end street that just leaves 

• would not do so himself, Reagan said us set for another recession." This poster of the late Soviet President Leonid "it was a plain case of looking at the He hinted that he might trim 
Brezhnev, whose death was announcedyesterday, schedule. It was felt it would be bet­defense spending, but said, "You've still stood in Moscow. It reads "The strength ofthe 
ter for George to head that delega­got to remember the great share of party is in unity with the people." To the right, tion." the defense budget is for humanity, Mixing an attitude of conciliation for the men and women of the with one of resolve, the president armed forces" in the form of higherNuclear arms race told the emerging Soviet leadership pay. that the United States faces the Reagan said, "We are looking at future with confiden.:e. And, he said, everything" but was determined to 
"we as a free people must always be close "the window ofvulnerability." prepared f0r change so when it At one point, Reagan lec.ured 

Mendelsohn shifts blatne to U.S. 
ByjOHN BRESLIN prestige and unparalleled world Cuban Missile Crisis in 1962, the 

comes we are ready to meet new op­Democrats and others who had News Staff power than to save American lives Russians learned the value of using 
portunities and challenges." "frightened to death" older that would be lost in an invasion of the bomb for politically persuasive 

Asked whether he plans any new Americans by suggestions that he Blaming the U.S. for the continu­Japan. "The bomb became a political purposes. From this point on, the 
initiative to lessen tensions, the would cut Social Security benefits. ing nuclear arms race, Everett Men­entity, as well as a physical one," he Russians would not sign a nuclear 
president sighed slightly and said Over five of the next eight years,delsohn concluded the Convocation added. limitation treaty until they felt parity 
"we have been trying to do that in Reagan saig. taxes for Social Security on Solutions to the Nuclear Arms Mendelsohn says fear was at the existed between the two super­the area ofquiet diplomacy." But, he will be increased under legislationRace with his lecture last night in the root of the policy that created the powers. 

said, "it is going to require actions already on the books. He said he did Memorial Library Auditorium. atomic bomb in 1945. Specifically, The science historian has advised 
and not words." not think "there is very much more A professor of the history of Albert Einstein and others shared Calling on the Soviet Union for room" for higher taxes.
See MENDELSOHN, page 9
science at Harvard University, Men­the potential Nazi scientists had in delsohn has international creden­1939, prior to World War II. Fear has tials as a science historian. He has been at the base of nuclear strategy been active in several peace-making to this date, according to Mendel­ND Health enterprises, and in 1979, led a sohn. delegation of persons interested in This fear policy, also known as 



Counsel, Psych Services merge
disarmament and arms control to deterrence, provides mutual the Soviet Union for intensive dis­assured destruction (M.A.D.) be­cussions with government leaders. tween the rival superpowers. Men­By KATHLEEN DOYLE "The Center's goal is to continue group ofstudents trying to deal with 
Mendelsohn cited evidence delsohn hopes that the limits of this SeniorStaffReporter to provide quality service to the Uni­their alcohol problems, while anoth­
proving American motives for drop­fear will never be realized, for the versity community," Mond said. er group is made up ofstudents who ping the first bomb on Hiroshima result would be catastrophic. Students seeking assistance with One ofthe primary services ofthe want to learn to deal with with He said the American government When President Kennedy personal or career choice problems C&PSC is its work with students in friends or family members who are dropped the bomb more to gain threatened nuclear war during the or wanting to enhance their per­confidential individual therapy. alcoholics. 
sonal growth can now turn to a new About five percent of the student Awomen's support group has also place on campusdesigned to help -population uses this service. Com­been formed. This discussion group the Counseling and Psychological mon problems of these students in­deals with the issues ofwomanhood.
Board ofTrustees 
Services Center ( C&PSC ). clude feeling anxious or A crisis assistance service is also This comprehensive mental offered by the C&PSC. This is a 24­health agency, which offers profes­hour emergency response system

assesses student life \. ­
sional services to all Notre Dame designed to deal with mental health 
students and their families, is the OBSERVER­crises. If necessary, a member ofthe By RYAN VER BERKMOES proposals was Student Body Presi­result of a merger between the uni­staffcan respond within 30 minutes. Managing Editor dent Lloyd Burke. Representing the versity's Counseling Center and the The C&PSC also provides a con­
-/NDEPTH
Student A.ffiars Committee, Burke Student Psychological Services Cen­sultation service. Students, faculty, A governor, 12 chiefexecutive of­presented "The Murday Report," an ter. The merger, planned during the and hall staff may meet with the ficers of corporations, and one assessment of student life at Notre 1981 spring semester, was imple­overwhelmed, not meeting high C&PSC about problems related to famous priest are among the 44 Uni­Dame that was prepared by the Uni­mented this summer and made ef­standards for oneself, and choosing a students and student life. A student versity trustees meeting today at versity ofSouth Carolina Psychology fective with the sta1rt of the 1982-83 major or career interests. concerned about another student Notre Dame. Department. academic year. Couple, family, and group can talk to a member of the st~, 
While here, the trustees will dis­The LaFortune Student Center did "We decided it made sense to counseling is also available. In all who will make suggestions and com­cuss student life, academic quality, not fare well in the report. A poll was combine the two agencies," said cases, confidentiality is required by ment about the situation. and finances. They will attend a din­cited showing that 97 percent of Michael Mond, acting director of law and the ethics ofthe counseling Films, tapes, and texts dealing ner on the library's fourteenth floor, Notre Dame students surveyed did C&PSC."The merger has resulted in profession. with a wide variety of psychological meet with local priests, and be the not feel that LaFortune is an ade­improved facilities, an enlarged staff, "Often students feel they have to problems are available through the guests of Father Theodore M. Hes­quate facility. "As far as a student and expanded services. By combin­be very sick to come here," Mond Center. As a result of the merger, its burgh, Lniversity president and center is concerned, they (the trus­ing both efforts we have gathered said. "We hope to change this im­library has been expanded and new trustee, at tomorrow's football tees) don't know which way to go," and centered more resources." pression. Those who are experienc­resource materials have been ob­
game. Discussing the future course said Burke. The Counseling and Psycholgical ing stress or want to explore their tained. of the Universit,y is also on the "We've had plans sitting on the Services Center is located on the lives and gain self-knowledge may Personality, vocational interests agenda. shelf for 18 months to renovate third floor of the Student Health consider coming to the Center." and alcohol assessments are also 
Yesterday the trustees met with LaFortune. The trustees need to Center. Its staff includes six full-time The C&PSC also offers counseling available to interested students. various committees in an effort to as­have an overall plan for this ruilding. professionals, a consulting psyc­to groups in a number of subject The staff emphasizes that all con­certain what issues need to be A piecemeal approach of moving ,, hiatrist, and eleven advanced doc­areas. These include assertiveness tacts in the Center are strictly con-covered during today's full 
roral students in the counseling training, test anxiety management, 
See C a PSC, page 7
meetings. Among those making ,''WI'hology program. and (',tting disorders. There is also a 
---------~ 



'News Brief§ 
By The OfJsetTel .111d The Associated Press 
The delayed kickofffor the Notre Dame-Penn state football game tomorrow has resulted in a time shift for a number of traditional campus events. Television coverage of the game is responsible for a 3:45p.m. start. A hospitality center for Notre Dame alumni in the north dome ofthe Athletic Convocation Center will be open from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. and following the game to 8:30p.m.. A new film covering the history offootball at the University ,Wake Up the Echoes, will be shown at 10 a.m.,11 a.m., noon, 2 p.m. and 7:30 
p.m.. Notre Dame's Glee Club, who recently returned from a concert tour of Eastern cities and an NBC performance, will present the traditional football Saturday concert at 1:30 p.m. in the north dome of the ACC. The Marching Band concert on the steps of the Main Building has been moved from noon to 2 p.m. A drum concert in­spection of the Irish Guards in the area of the Band Building will precede the march to the stadi11m at 3 p.m. Finally, officials at Sacred Heart Church on the ca.mpus have moved the usual 5 p.m. Mass on footbal Saturdays to a period of 20 minutes to a half hour after the game. The ga.me is expected to be completed about 7 p.m. and dining hall hours have been changed to 7 p.m. to 8:30p.m. for Satur­day night. -The Observer 
The Job Bank of Student Government is off to a great start this year, according to Student Body President Uoyd Burke. The job bank was initiated early this fall and was part of Burke's campaign platform last year. Burke said Student Goverment recognized the obvious need for student employment off campus. Under the job bank, South Bend merchants can call or write the Student Government office when they have jobs available, and then the jobs are advertised in The Observer. Bob Yonchak, student body vice president, is pleased with the positive reception the job bank has received. "So far, the job bank has been very successful," he said. "There are at least two or three job positions filled each week." ­
The Observer 

The Snite Museum of Art at Notre Dame will begin a series ofThursday evening openings for people who cannot attend during daylight hours. Thursday opening hours will be 10 
a.m. to 8 p.m .. The galleries will be closed Thanksgiving Day. Special talks and exhibits will be announced for future dates. -The Ob­server 
An 18-year-old man freed the last of his nine hostages and dropped his high-powered rifle in a high school hal­lway yesterday morning in Burke, Va., ending a 21-hour standoff police said was triggered by a spurned marriage proposal. Ja.mes Q. Stevens, a short, slightly built high school dropout, surrendered peacefully to police in this affluent Washington suburb. He was taken to jail, charged with nine counts ofabduction and one count of using a firearm to commit a felony and held for arraignment today. No injuries were reported, although two hostages were taken to a hospital for checkups. Scores of police cruisers and emergency vehicles and several helicopters disrupted the quiet neighborhood surrounding the sprawling Lake Braddock Secondary School com­plex as police and reporters waited out the drama. -AP 
The National Commission on Social Security 
Reform reached quick and unanimous agreement in Alexandria, Va. yesterday that the system faces a shortage of S 150 billion to S200 billion over the next seven years. The 15 members then set about the far more difficult task oftrying to agree on ways to close that gap, either through higher taxes, a slowdown in the growth ofbenefits or a combination. Economist Alan Greenspan, the chairman, mar­shalled the members into accord on the target figures with little dissent, although some Republican lawmakers said the deficits could be even worse. Greenspan said the three-day meeting, which con­tinues through tomorrow, "is not necessarily our last meeting. We have much work to do, but we will meet our deadline of Dec. 31." Greenspan said the panel should recommend some type of"fail-safe mechanism" for Social Security so the system can weather reces­sions without running out of money. -AP 
The Tylenol poisonings in Chicago have prompted a rash of contamination hoaxes, with more than half a dozen reported "victims" of tampered products turning out to be culprits. Authorities generally say they do not know why these people -adults and youngsters -acted the way they did. One youth said he put a nail in a frankfurter to scare his girlfriend and another teenager said a mischievous impulse for publicity prompted him to spike chocolate milk with drain cleaner. No one has been seriously injured in any of the incidents and police in several cases decided not to press charges. Among the hoaxes is the case of Marion Barrow, 14, ofMinneapolis, who admitted pouring Drano in a carton of chocolate milk from the cafeteria at Northeast Junior 
High School on Oct. 26. Barrow had complained ofthroat pains after drinking the milk and was admitted to the hospital where doctors found a reddening of the esopQ.agus. "I guess it was just mis­chevious," she later said. "We were studying about that Tylenol 
thing .. .I got the idea." No charges were filed. -AP 
Windy todayand turning much colder with a 90 percent chance of showers and a few thunderstorms. Temperatures drop­ping into the upper 30s by evening. Windy tonight and cold with a 70 percent chance for snow. Low in low 30s. Cloudy Saturday and cold with a chance for snow flurries. High in the low and mid 30s. ­
AP 

---------------------------------------------------~ 
Friday, November 12, 1982 -page 2 
The death offootball 
"Notre Dame bas tried to maintain an athletic­academic balance and has been about as successful as any school can be in doing this. However, it is impos­siblefor a great academic institution to be a great ath­letic institution, because that is a contradiction in terms." -Howard Cosell in a Gannett interview released earlier this year 
Some may be surprised with these comments from one of the most well known (if least respected) sports broadcasters in America. In the article, Cosell claims that "big-time college athletics is garbage and should be abolished." He specifically denounces the exploitation ofcollege athletes for "multi-million dollar profits" and the "coaches who are cheating because they will be fired if they don't win." 
This is not the first time college athletics have come under fire for alleged malfeasances. Notre Dame's great football coach ofthe 1920s, Knute Rockne, went before a board of leading educators late in his career to plead the case for college football. These educators accused Rockne and other college coaches of luring players away from their studies and emphasizing violence in the sport. 
Rockne asked critics to look not at the superficial violence that seemed to per-. meate the sport but rather at the beneficial results of competition. He noted that he and the other coaches "believe the finest work of man is building the charac­ter of man." He continued, "Wouldn't it be a good idea not to grade anyone's con­tribution to the national in­telligence until all the results were in? Say, five or ten years after he has graduated when his record and character aren't hung on the wall, like a diploma, but are hung inside the man himself." 
Of course, some may contend that television and its great sums ofmoney has changed the face ofthe college game since Rockne addressed the issue over 50 years ago. Today's critics might point to the many colleges now on probation for recruiting violations, questioning the values the game seems to extol. 
This analysis of the problems ofcollege football may be correct to adegree -certainly, some colleges h t ave used illegal methods to recruit players. But is this the extent of the problem? I don't think the problem lies strictly with college sports but goes much deeper into the psyche of human nature, deeper than most critics choose to look. 
Briefly, the need for security causes humans to align themselves with the most powerful, with the winner. In war, this need manifests itself through patriotism; in college football, it surfaces through student support and alumni loyalty. When this support and loyalty reaches fanaticism, confused morals cause some col­lege officials to cheat. 
Only a drastic change in human nature, however, 

~~~The~.Observer 
INMEMORY ••• 

Design Editor ........... Rest In Peace Rabbit Design Assistant ... Grave Robber Reggie, Small Skeleton Layout Staff.................... Missing In Action Typesetters .... Robber strikes again, Rigor 
Mortis MacLennan News Editor ........... Dearly-departed Dietz Copy Editor ........................ No More Neely Features Layout...... Mourning Musumeci Editorials Layout ... Paul-bearer McGinn, 
Bones Cer~bona Sports Copy Editor ......... Rotting Riccardi Sports Supplement Layout ........ Needless Brain Death ND Day Editor................... Petters Morgue SMCDayEdltor........................ Grave Greg AdDeslgn ............................ Cemetery Slota Photographer ................................ Stilt' Scott Guest Appell7"ances ......... Cadaver Chery~ 
Eternally Restless Moose, Skip Suicide, DOA-Dzave 'Now /lay me down to siMp . 
The Observer (USPS 598 9201 1s published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacatiOn penods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Mary s Col· lege SubscnpiiOns may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnllng The Observer P 0 Box Q Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer 1s a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 
Second class .postage pa1d at Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
1 


David Sarphie 
Assistant News Editor Inside 
could alleviate the problem. Elimination ofcollege foot­ball would affect not the problem but only one ofmany results. 
Cosell and other critics also argue that football draws players away from their studies. One need look only at the record to prove them wrong: over 80 percent ofthe 1977 Notre Da.me football team graduated within five years -highest among all schools in the College Foot­ball Association. 
If Cosell can criticize college football for taking players away from their academic endeavors, one might be justified in questioning whether Cosell favors the elimination ofthe Olympic Games as well. Olympic ath­letes must devote most of their energies to training for the games and, therefore, cannot spend time in other 
activities to benefit other aspects of their life. Is this what Cosell desires? 
In truth, big-time college athletics, and especially football, does not take away from college life, but adds to it, enhances it. Football provides an opportunity for the outlet ofphysical aggres­sions on the part of both players and fans and the en­hancement of the human character that Rockne felt was so important. 
In addition, if winning is kept in the proper perspective -desired with vigor, not greed -it can help create a positive at­titude to be carried by stu­dents throughout life. 

Former Notre Da.me President Father John Cavanaugh once noted, "At Notre Dame we have no apologies about wanting winners. We want our stu­dents to win in debates, on the basketball court, on the basball dia.mond, in the classroom, and in the important battles in life. The football team is a great exa.mple of how perfection may be attained. We shall alw'ays want Notre Dame men to play to win so long as there Is a Notre Dame." 
And so long as there is a Howard Cosell around to criticize it. 

Observer notes 
----------------~ 

The views expressed in the Inside co:umn are the views ofthe author, and do not necessarily represent 
the views ofThe Observer or its editorial board. 

The Best in 

Aged Steaks 
120 N. Main Street Downtown, Mishawaka 
255-7737 


Lunch 
11:00 A.M. to 2:00P.M. 
I 
Dinner 5:00 P.M.
I I 
Closed Sundays
I 
& Holidays
I I I I I I I I I I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I I I I I I I I I I I 

The Observer Friday, November 12, 1982 page 3 
Russians prepare for Brezhnev's funeral 
MOSCOW (AP) -The new Soviet leaders, faced with a transfer of Kremlin power following the death of President Leonid I. Brezhnev, yesterday named former KGB chiefYuri V. Andropov to head a committee planning a state funeral for the man who ruled the Soviet Un­ion for 18 years. 
They announced that Brezhnev would be buried Monday beside the Kremlin wall on Red Squre and that a four-day period of national mourn­ing would begin today. 
The Communist Party and government, indicating Brezhnev's foreign policy would be continued, reiterated his policy to "ensure detente and disarmament" with the West, but warned it would deal a "crushing retaliatory strike" if threatened by attack. 
Brezhnev, 75, died Wednesday of an apparent heart attack. The an­nouncement was withheld for 26.5 hours but when it was made, black­trimmed flags quickly were raised around Moscow. Public reaction to Brezhnev's death was surprisingly subdued. 
President Reagan, in a condolence letter, called Brezhnev "one of the world's most important figures for nearly two decades," and said he looked forward to working with the new Kremlin leadership "toward an improved relationship with the Soviet Union." 
White House officials said it was 
highly unlikely Reagan would be at 
the funeral Monday, but that a high­
level U.S. delegation would attend. 
No one was immediately named to succeed Brezhnev as president or to take over the more important post as chief of the Communist Party. But Western experts tend to believe the power vacuum will be filled in the short run by a collective leadership including Andropov, 68, and long-time Brezhnev aide Konstantin Chernenko, 71. 
By naming Andropov to head the committee planning an elaborate funeral ceremony, the leadership immediately put Andropov forward as a leading candidate. 
Some sources said Chernenko ul­timately might take over, but that Moscow Communist Party boss Vik­tor V. Grishin could emerge as a compromise. Another' man once considered in line for a leading post, Andrei Kirilenko, is said to be in poor health and to have retired from the Kremlin leadership. 
The Soviet Central Committee, with more than 300 members, for­mally votes on a new party chiefand the parliamentary leadership chooses the president. 
But until the succession question is settled, Western analysts believe a collective leadership drawn from the 12-man Politburo will govern. Defense Minister Dimitri F. Ustinov, Premier Nikolai A. Tikhonov and Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko were expected to play key roles in the succession. 
In the interim, the funeral com­mittee chaired by Andropov decided Brezhnev will be buried on Red Square after lying in state for three days. Tass said the party Central Committee had ordered four days of mourning beginning today, and the closing of all primary and secondary schools for the burial. 


dent Brezhnev's death was announced Thursday. (APPhoto) 
After Brezhnev's death 
Gov''t profpredicts little change 
By CAROL CAMP early yesterday morning by information about the nature of the Senior StaffReporter commenting, "I don't see anything Soviet politcal system. Power within exciting happening." Additionally, the Soviet Union is concentrated There will be little change in Brinkley dismissed the idea that within the Politburo, which usually Soviet domestic and foreign policy there will be a significant power consists of 12 .members. Because of as a result of the death of Soviet struggle between opposing political Brezhnev's death and the debate as premier Leoniid Brezhnev, accord­forces within the Soviet Union. to whether one of the Politburo ing to Professor of Government "Why should anyone try to members absent in a recent group George Brinkley in an exclusive in­change policy?" Brinkley asked. photograph is alive or dead, the terview yesterday. "After tall, it is their policy as well as body is presently comprised of 11 
Brinkley refuted th1e widespread Brezhnev's ... I don't see any basis members. media speculation which has oc­for that kind ofanalysis." According to Brinkley, nine of the curred ever since news of Brinkley qualified his observa­
Brezhnev's death was made public tions by relating some background See BRINKLEY, page 8 

--~---~......... ~-----......,....~-----,._--~----------,.--~ 
---~-­
The Observer Friday, November 12, 1982 -page 4 
First oft,vo 
Space Shuttle launches satellite 

CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. ( AP) ­From a space shuttle launch pad 184 miles above Earth, the exuberant crew of Columbia sent the first of two communications satellites spin­ning into orbit yesterday. With that, the era of commercial space flight began. 
It happened only eight hours after the shuttle cut through blue skies over the Atlantic and settled in for its fifth flight. 
Mission specialist Joseph Lenoir started the satellite spinning, triggering a 90-minute countdown for SBS-C, the spacecraft belonging 
to Satellite Business Systems of
McLean, Va. 

"You got a lot of happy people down here, you guys do good work," radioed Mission Control. 
The satellite, a 3.5-ton cylinder that will be used for video, data and voice communications, was spin­ning at 52 revolutions per minute when it was released into an orbit of its own. 
A few minutes later, his colleague, Joseph Allen, radioed, "We still have that beautiful satellite in sight. It's traveling just below us." 
NASA was paid for the shuttle's 
task, but not very much. 
The Veterans' Day launch was the 

first ever of four men in one 
spacecraft. With NASA's customers 
paying attention, Columbia left ex­
The Space Shuttle Columbia was launchedfrom Kennedy Space Center on scheduleyesterday morning. ( AP Photo) 




r.2~!,~~L 
SZEeNIJIII/ -eAIITIJIII$1-MII/IIlJA/I CHUCK WHITE 
* *
At The Piano Bar · 
St•e C'hucli bn~ Tues. lhru Sal. ~:1111 p.m.-1:00 ll.m .....t:njo) l.il'e! 
•Dancing• Drinks• Dinger 
•Hospilal!n·•Rnsonablr Pric:r• 
Lunch Special $1.99 to $4.28 Dinner Specials: Seafood Platter $1.1S Pork fried Rice $1.00 Chicken Chowmein $:S.SO l,f.=::::;='l 
"The Best Chinese Food l"CJu 've Ever'Had" 
HOURS: 
Mon.·Thur 11:30am-10:00pm 
"n. & Sat. 11:30 a.m.-1 1:00 p.m. Sun. & Holidays 4 p.m.-9:00p.m. Happy Hour 5· 7 P M 
BAJIQU£T 1100115 & CiiOUP RAT£5 
lVliUIU 
OPEN7 DAYS A WEEK 
130 DillE HWY. SOITH SOUTH IEIID(IeselaM) ltextto Ralldall'-: h:•• 
272-7376 
~ r..... 
f'v."•··~

ro
~····· 
-c,tLLAR ~ 
KINGS~··: ~ 
~ 
1621 South Bend Ave. (only) 
TABOR HILL 
~ 
~-.!~li~~.. 
I 



' 4,,., 
KAMCHATKA 
VODKA 
1.7SliTEIIS 
•!I!. 799 i 
,BOLLA 
,.j IIIIPORHDWINES·J\ •\u••• ;-~·d• 
~~ s·~~IT.. 
-----··
------· 
I BAILE'r'S. 



eHi9j 
Labatt's OLD MILWAUKEE CANADIAN . 
REGULAR &
\! 
BEER &ALE ~~ LIGHT 

~ 

actly on time for its five-day journey. 
"It was as near perfect as we could 
probably expect," said launch direc­
tor AI O'Hara. "It couldn't get any 
better." 

Flight director Tommy Holloway said the flight was going exception­ally well and that the crewmen were "in good spirits, enjoying them­selves and doing a very excellent job." 
"It was a fine ride, l can tell you," commander Vance Brand said of the ship's fifth liftoff in 19 months. 
With him are pilot Robert Over­myer, 46, and astronaut-scientists Lenoir, 43, and Allen, 45. These 
was still defiant. 
But Urban said Walesa wrote 

~---------------~1
~ MINORITY OPPORTUNITIES 
Jaruzelski, the premier, Communist 

1  COMMITEE  1  
1  University ofTexas School of law  1  
1  will be recruiting students on campus  1  
II  Tuesday~ November 16 ·9:00a.m. For further information~  I I  

.________________r#
\ contact: Career &Placement Office 239-5200 I 
WE WILL BEAT t>RQCERY & DRUG STORE ADVERTISED HGH PRICES! 
8rmg in Their Ad, And We'll Beat TheJr Price! 
IITLS

• 
99.~. ~·f 5~~:~· ~ 69,~:~' 
. ----+---------­
-
Closest Liquor Store toN D Campus 
Budweiser; 
. " ....., .
-

TAYLOR 

J. ROGET MILLER LITE 
MEW YORK STATE

! CHAMPAGNE 
WINES $8" 
Champa1nu• Spum&nlt OLD MILWAUKEE 
19 $7" 
·-· PABST 
ONLY 

•-4~'~' ~., $7" 
Windsor
McGUIRES 
~ Cdnadian 
CREAM LIQU.EUR 
7SQIIIL 
Jr•HNNIE WALKER 
CANEI

BEAM CINZANO 
,. RED LABEL 

~ BLEND Asti Spumante I WINES 
~~ 
1.15l1TEIS ~~0 ·~ I ..,ril :_, 8~,~~ I ~ 899 699 I! 299 
• YOU'RE-WASTING YOUR MONEY BUYING ANYWHERE ELSE! ,...._
-=.. 

three are rookies, but Brand, 51, had Delta rocket. 
been in space before. He returned NASA estimated the actual cost of 
unconscious from the 1975 Apollo­the flight at S250 million. 
Soyuz flight when fuel fumes leaked Forty-five minutes after ejection, 
into the capsule after it splashed into trailing the shuttle by 12 or 13 miles, 
the Pacific Ocean. a "perigee rocket motor" on the SBS­
In the shuttle's 60-foot long cargo C wa:; to boost the satellite into an bay at launch were two nearly egg-shaped orbit. Tomorrow a identical satellites. One belonged to second motor firing will circularize SBS-C, a creation ofAetna Insurance, the orbit at 22,300 miles, the height IBM and Comsat General; the other at which satellite speed matches the was owned by Telesat ofCanada Ltd. spin of Earth and allows stationary Togther the firms paid NASA about communications. $1 7 million to have their spacecraft Allen will deploy Anik C, the launched from the shuttle instead of Telesat satellite in similar fashion using a more expensive one-use today. 
============================= 
Polish officials plan to release Lech Walesa 
WARSAW, Poland (AP) -In­terned Solidarity leader Lech Walesa has offered to help "find a solution" to Poland's problems and will be freed without conditions t in a few days, the martial law regime said yes­terday. 
The announcement c t arne a day af­ter the failure of a general strike called by underground leaders of the outlawed independent labor un­ion. 
"If it is true, I will be happy," Walesa's wife Danuta told The As­sociated Press by telephone from the couple's home in the northern port city of Gdansk. "I'm full of joy and fear, because I cannot imagine the crowds of people who will want to see him." 
Government spokesmanJerzy Ur­ban told foreign reporters at a hur­riedly called news conference yesterday that Walesa's release would be delayed until sometime in "the next few days because of technical reasons such as different 
formalities,  his  luggage  and  so  
forth."  
"No  conditions  were  put  to  

Walesa concerning his release," he 
-
KE~S 

BUSCH $25" BUD LIGHT $28" MICH $31" GENERIC $21" 
while quantities last 
QUARTS STROHS $7" 

CARLO ROSSI 

••~ DINNER WINES 
BIG4L'IEA' 
. 499 
1621 5ouon6endA•• 
233 4603 
added. 
The 39-year-old Solidarity leader was interned when martial law was declared Dec. 13, and for some time has been held in a government villa in extreme southeast Poland near the Soviet border. 
His release, coupled with Mon­day's announcement that Polish­born PopeJohn Paul II can visit here next June suggested Polish leader Gen. WojciechJaruzelski feels in full control after I I months of military rule law aimed at crushing dissent. 
Despite this, the regime ordered police to dsperse the estimated 6,000 people in Warsaw and 2,000 in Krakow who demonstrated yes­terday to mark the anniversary of 
Poland's  reemergence  as  an  inde­ 
pendent  state  after Worl d  War I.  
Police  fired  tear  gas  at  

demonstrators chanting "Solidarity, Solidarity!" and "Walesa is free!" 
About 800 people were arreMed Wednesday night during labor un­rest at 24 factories in the two cities. 
Wales a in the past refused to come to terms with the government despite the banning of his I 0­million-member union, and his wife 
said after visiting him last month he 
Party chief and head of the martial law regime, three days ago offering to come to terms with the govern­ment. 
"Many people needed some time to understand what is still pos~ible on both sides," Urban quoted Walesa as saying in his letter. "I propose a meeting and serious dis­cussion on problems of mutual in­terst. And with good will, we will certainly find a solution." 
SENIORS-GRADUATES BECOME AN ARMY OFFICER 
If you are planning for your future, plan to meet with a special Army officer recruiting team which will be on campus Monday afternoon, November 15. 
The team, which includes two instructors from the Army Officer Candidate 
School, will make a presen tation on the requirements, benifits, training, and duties ofan Army officer. 
The presentation will 
begin at 3 p.m. at the Army ROTC lounge, 2nd Floor~ Building 5. 
For more information on how you can become an Army officer, call Capt. 
John Coo111ey at 232·6250. 
Army-Be All You Can Be. 
The Observer 

Arms control conference 
Salt I rep favors artns control 
By CATHY PAX 
StaffReporter 
Arms limitations can exist in a country and not endanger its nation­al security, said William Mclean, a speaker in yesterday's Convocation on Solutions to the Nuclear Arms Race. 
"We're one step beyond negotiat­ing a verifiable freeze," said Mclean, assistant dean of the Notre Dame Law School and a naval representa­tive of the original delegation to the SALT l talks. "Arms control is a viable alternative; in my opinion it is the most viable." 
He spoke to an audience of ap­proximately 60 about his role in the treaty's negotiation. 
Mclean parricipated in seven negotiating sessions held in Helsinki and Vienna until the treaty was signed in May, 1972. The former naval captain spoke of the need of patience in the treaty-making meetings. "I nearly went crazy with three years at SALT !," he said. "At times we went so slowly. The Soviets could come day after day and make the same point and act like it was a completely new point." 

He remarked, however, that be­cause national security was at stake, there was a need to act slowly. "You just can't say, hammer on the table, this is the way it's going to be." 
"There have been some problems with SALT I, but these agreements still live and both sides abide by them because both sides can say, 'This is in my national interest."' In Mclean's opinion, this is the reason the SALT treaty has worked. 

SALT I entailed four major points: a stress upon communication be­tween the two powers; an updating of the hotline through the use of 
Former SMC library becomescollegecenter 
By MIKE LEPRE 
Senior StaffReporter 
Blueprints have been completed for the renovation ofSaint Mary's old library into a college center for both faculty and students. 
Mary Ann O'Donnell, director of 
student activities at Saint Mary's Col­
lege, anticipates, "The center may 
open as early as next falL" 
The plan for the center was 
devised as a result of a fact-finding 
study conducted on the campuses of 
both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. 
In response to these surveys, the 
center will include a game room, a 
snack bar, lounge areas, office space, 
a bookstore, and a center for general 
information. 
"The goal ofour program is to en­
courage informal association be­
tween students and faculty 
members," said O'Donnell, adding, 
"With this new facility we will be 
able to centralize student activities." 
In explaining the use of the 
various space allotments, O'Donnell 
quickly pointed out, "The plans 
were designed with the objective of 
creating many multi-purpose 
rooms." Along this line, O'Donnell 
noted that certain lounge areas 
could be used by different campus 
groups for workshops, parties, or 
other social gatherings. 
While changes to the current 
floor plan will take place, O'Donnell 

believes that .the plans do not call for 
any major structural changes to the 
building itself 
"We are trying as best as we can to 
renovate the building while at the 
time preserving its old beauty as 
much as possible," she said. 
O'Donnell feels that Saint Mary's 
students will respond favorably to 
the college center. "This center will 
become the focus of student life on 
ourcampus," stated O'Donnell, "and 
in this respect will be a super addi­
tion to Saint Mary's." 

A specific date for the opening of the college center, which will operate on its own budget, has not yet been determined. "Bids are out right now for contracting, and depending on when they come through, the renovation process will begin," according to O'Donnell. 
satellites; a limiting of antiballistic missiles; and a five-year nuclear arms construction freeze. It also provided for the beginning of SALT II talks which would extend the freeze 
period and attempt to reduce the weapons ceiling. 
One area of controversy in the treaty was the feeling of some Americans that tlle five-year freeze was to the Soviets' advantage. As a result, when the Senate ratified SALT I, it included a provision that SALT II talks would negotiate an equal ceiling on nuclear arms. 
McLean attributes the failure of 
the SALT II treaty to the unstable 
political environent at the time and 
not to the quality of the documents 
themselves. 
"The Russians do respect strength 
and they sneer at weakness," 
Mclean said ;J.S he praised Reagan's 
desire for military strength. He saw 
the failure of the Iranian hostage 
escape mission as the impetus for 
the defense building movement of 
the present government. 
Mclean was optimistic about the 
Reagan admistration's relations with 
the Soviets. "There is a good chance 
in the next two years of ratifying a 
SALT II that failed before." 
He also spoke of Soviet leader 
Leonid Brezhnev's death as a pos­
sible stumbling block in negotia­
tions. "Brezhnev's death may not 
hurt arms talks but it certainly won't 
speed them up." 
Notre Dame :Saint Mary's Theatre Presents 




TheMaids 
by jeanGenet Novemberl2.13,18.19.20·8pmWashingtonHallonNotreDame·scampus $3.00 General Admission $2.50 Students· Senior Citizens·Faculty·Staff Opening Night:2 for the pricecf1' Forinformationcall 284-4626 

Old Fashioned Honte Cooking At Its Best! 
*If You Are Looking For Something Unique and Different "Homemade Pies, Breads, Salads, & Rolls *40 Foot Salad Bar 
•Nightly "All You Care To Eat Specials'' Choose from Roa<;t Beer, Turkey, Chicken, BBQ Ribs, Frog Legs & Lake Perch, Swiss Steak, 
•open Menu Always Available  Ham  
*Elegance, Good Prices  -850 Seats  
~ ,,_ "r  •souvenirs, Gifts & Homemade Goodies  

ii~ ~~~ &t. morning brunch-75 items under $5°0-8 am. 2 pm 
.  col)-.:_  ~..··We will accept your reservations to guarantee  
....  immed:late ., .. ,...,...  
Open Daily 11 A.M.  -9 P.M.  • Saturday 8 A.M.  -9 P.M.  
--==-,..,  Sundays-Excert Easter. \1other's Day & Father's Day  
Jefferson Blvd. • Mishawaka. Indiana  255-8040  
• ~;.:..:.:.-;. !!:~;;: .. !:ami iu'u.i.n un  
Eddy-S min. to Jp••··II4Ul.:.~t JLmin.  - 

----'--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----~­

Friday, November 12, 1982 -page 5 
William McLean, Assistant Dean ofND Law School and a SALT I naval representative, spoke on SALT I and the nuclear arms race as part ofyesterday's Convocation on the Solution to the Nucl!:ar Arms Race yesterday in the Law School. (Photo by Scott Bower) 
NO'S Specializing in 

1sttle :::~~;!~~e:::::it:~~o~:t!~l~. 
ep TAKING BESIBVATIONS 802 s.. WMiut NOW 
South IIINI Take lddy to Sample, turn right 232-24M on Walnut. Banquet rooms available with option to create your own menu. Serving dinner at Spm Mon.-Sat. 
Student Union, Educational Media, and The Snite Museum present: 

Robert Hughs 
-ArtEditor ofTime Magazine -Author-The Shock ofthe New "Art, Politics, Propaganda" 
. 
' 
«:• 

Tuesday, November 16 7:30pm Annenberg Auditorium Snite Museum 



BEVERAGES 
Beer and Soft Drinks 
1340 South Bend Ave. across street from campus FREE POSTERS 
234-1114 
20 DIFFERENT BRANDS OF KEG BEER AVAILABLE INCLUDING IMPORTS OPEN TILL 1 :00 Saturday 

The Observer Friday, November 12, 1982-page 6 
Vietnan1 veterans visit neW" memorial 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Vietnam vets once treated with what Presi­dent Reagan called "ingratitude" streamed past their new black monument in Washington on a Veterans Day that students on 500 campuses turned into a day ofwarn­ing against nuclear war. 
The memory ofsoldiers who gave or risked their lives was shouted in speeches and whispered at grave sites. Fifteen hundred people marched down New York's Fifth Avenue led by Mayor Edward Koch, who proclaimed that "patriotism is back," and six people, none younger than 84, paraded in Sault Ste. Marie, Mich. 
"I want the people not to forget that there was a World War I," said ND Linebacker Coach George Kelly speaks to famous Thursday nightpep rally. (Photo by Scott Oral "Moose" LaCombe, 86, who students on Sorin Hall's front porch for their Bower) marched by himself ahead of five 
LEE'S B-BQ SRIBS THURS, FRI SSAT 
OPEN FOR LUNCH 

SPECIAL FRISSAT 

I 1:00am· CLOSING 


$2 PITCHERS 
2110 REQUIRED 

I123 So Bend Aue. Phone Orders 
THE ARMY ROTC 2-YEAR 
PROGRAM. UP TO $1.000 AYEAR 
PWS A COMMISSION. 
If you passed up Army ROTC during your first two years ofcollege. you can enroll in our Z-year pro­!,'l"am before you start your last two. 
Your training will start the summer after your 
•;ophomore year at a six-week Army ROTC Basic Camp. 
It'll pay off, too. You'll earn over $400 for attend­ing Basic Camp and up to $1.000 a year for your last two years ofcollege. 
But, more important. you"ll he on your way to earn­ing a commis.~ion in today "s Army-which includes the Army Reserve and Army NationalGuard-whileyou're 
. earning a college degree. 


other World War I veterans who 
Explosion destroys Israeli headquarters 
TYRE, Lebanon (AP)-A fiery ex­There was no official word from plosion destroyed Israel's military the Israelis on the cause. headquarters in Tyre yesterday, kill­Defense Minister Ariel Sharon 
ing at least 28 people and wounding called it "a disaster whose cause and dozens more. circumstances we don't know yet, 
The Israeli military command in and in which many people were Tel Aviv said in a communique that hurt." 13 Israelis were killed in the explo­Israeli soldiers still were search­sion and 25 were wounded. An Is­ing the rubble for other victims and raeli army medic at the scene, Dr. survivors, the military command Arieh Roth, said he knew of 15 Arabs said. killed, and there were reports from It said the dead Israelis were five Beirut of60 dead in the rubble ofthe soldiers, six Israeli-Druse border eight-story building. police and two members of Israel's 
Some reports said the explosion Shin Bet security service. was caused by a attacker who drove Israeli authorities had held up a car packed with explosives into release ofan official casualty toll un­the building. But other reports said til relatives were notified. the blast may have been caused by Lebanese rescue workers, inter­exploding ammunition or gas cylin­viewed in Sidon after leaving Tyre, 
ders. said they counted 60 bodies. 
ENGINEERING MAJORS HAVE 
ENOUGH STRESS WITHOUT HAVING 
TO WORRYABOUT TUmOM. 
Ifone of the angles you've been studying lately is a way to pay your tuition costs, Army ROTC would like to offer some sound advice. 
Apply for an Army ROTC scholarship. . Recently, we set aside hundreds ofscholarships solely for engineering majors like yourself. Each one covers full tuition, books and other supplies, and pays you up to $1,000 each school year it's in effect. So if the stress of worrying about tuition 
is bending you out of shape, get some fin~n­cial support. Apply for an Army ROTC 
scholarship today. 
For more informa­titm. contact your Pro­fessor of Military Science. 
ARMY ROTC. 
BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 

CALL  ':'ODAY  '  '  
TAI::  A. CAt-:::ATA  
OR 239-6265  

rode in two jeeps provided by the National Guard. LaCombe said he got the jeeps after he foun t d out no parade was going to be held. 
"I walked two blocks," he said. "I wanted to prove to the people that I still could do it." 
Chicago Mayor Jane Byrne ded­icated a fountain to the Vietnam War dead, and put a list of their names into it in a time capsule. 
The Union of Concerned Scien­tists was among a coalition ofgroups opposed to the nuclear weapons race that sponsored teach-ins on an estimated 500 college campuses. Helen Caldicott, president of Physicians for Social Responsibility, another sponsoring group, was scheduled to address a Chicago audience. 
"Nuclear war is not controllable." said Henry Kendall, chairman of the Union of Concerned Scientists, at a Harvard seminar in Cambridge, Mass. 
In Washington, Vietnam veterarts and others streamed past the granite walls of the memorial listing the Gls killed in Vietnam. 
Although the controversial V­shaped structure will not be ded­
icated  until  tomorrow,  the  fence  
surrounding it  or.  the  Mall  came  
down Wednesday.  

President Reagan said it was time for those who served in Vietnam to "take their rightful place in our his­tory along with other American heroes who put th t eir lives on the line for their country." 
"Certainly mistakes were made," Reagan said, "but the reality ofVkt­nam today -massive prison camps for torture and political indoctrina­tion, hundreds of thousands of'boat people' sacrificing everything and risking a painful death to flee Com­munist oppression -all this sug­gests that the cause for which our Vietnam veterans fought was an honorable one." 
-~~--­

The Observer Friday, November 12, 1982-page 7 
Center ofPastoral Liturgy 
20 years of change," said Brother James A. Field, program coordinator for the Center. "We plan to evaluate how the vision of the Council's Con­stitution on the Sacred Liturgy has been ful-filled, and in what respects the reform has failed to live up to the hopes expressed by the Second Vatican Council." 
Dr. Mark Searle, from the Cemer of Pastoral Liturgy, explained the goals ofthe Council, saying that it set as its foundation the whole history of salvation. It then set the church and its sacramental activities into this context, thereby laying down the principles to govern the reform ofthe Church's liturgy. 
Searle went on to state that most ofthe reforms were fulfilled because they involved easily transformed changes in policies. Other reforms, however, were not as readily ac­
cepted  because  they  involved  
changes  in  individual attitudes  as  
well.  

• • .C&PSC 
continuedfrom page 1 
fidential. 
"We believe that for a student to have real confidence, to be com­fortable coming here, it is necessary for him to know that whatever they say here is confidential," Mond said. "We only disclose information ifthe student gives his written consent, or ifthere is a real emergency situation, such as a suicide attempt, a severe emotional breakdown, or if the stu­dent becomes a threat to others." 
"Often students are concerned about whether their coming to the Center will appear on their transcript," Mond added. "Nothing appears on a student's record. We try to do what is in the best interest of the student. The student is the focus. That's our philosophy." 
"We have developed com­prehensive mental health services for a college campus," said Willis E. Bartlett, coordinator of professional training. "And we provide services for a minimal fee. There is no charge for the student's first session." 
"We take the student's financial situation into consideration and work it out with him," Mond added. "We have never turned a student away because he couldn't afford to pay." 
Another result ofthe merger is im­proved facilities. A new wing of offices and therapy rooms has been added, as well as a library, enlarged waiting room, and audio-visual room. 
"We have tried to make the Cen­ter quieter and more pleasing to the students and staff," Mond said. 
In addition, the old infirmary chapel is presently undergoing renovation to be used by C&PSC for workshops, films, and lectures. Previously the C&PSC did not have a room large enough for such func­tions. 
The Counseling and Psychologi­cal Services Center is open Monday through Friday from 9 am tp 5 pm. Students wishing to make an ap­pointment should call the Center at 239·7336. For alcohol-related problems or consultation, students may call a specially established phone line at 239-5085. 
Conference features Vaticcm II 

SMC food service experi111ents \\lith TV 
By CATHERINE DUFFY proximately 45 people showed up, News Staff whereas usually no one would have been present, said Ludtke. More 
Saint Mary's food service is ex­football games will probably be perimenting with the use of a wide shown and some movies may also be screen television in the snack bar, shown. If it works out well, soap but poor reception has complicated operas will be shown during lunch the decision ofwhether to purchase hours. one. 
Ludtke would not disclose theThe Saint Mary's food service rental amount or the purchase pricerented the television last Saturday of the set, but described it as aand hoped to have it through "considerable amount." He said thatDecember. Reception problems, the television will be purchased ifhowever, began to occur making the benefits are worth the cost. Theviewing difficult. Bob Ludtke, food frequent experiments will help toservice manager, requested that the determine whether the televisionrental agency replace or repair the increases student activities and busi­faulty antenna. However, Video ness at the snack bar.
Movie Center, according to Ludtke, will only make the necessary repairs The television has a five foot if the television is purchased. No screen, remote control, and color. 
settlement has yet been reached. Although it does not carry cable The television was originally now, a cable hookup can be in­rented to telecast the Notre Dame stalled, according w the manager of Pittsburgh football game. Ap-the snack bar. 
JUNIOR CLASS DATE NIGHT! Dinner at the Ice House followed by a 
choice of two movies. Wednesday & Thursday Night Nov.17 & 18 Cost only $1 0.00 per couple Car caravan will meet at Main Circle at 6:45 
Tickets will be sold in LaFortune Friday Nov.12 3:30-4:30 For more information call6874 
Girls ask your favorite Guy! Guys ask your favorite Girl! limited tickets available 


CORBY'S 
t'FOOTBALL WEEKEND" 
FRI HappyHour 
Pitchers $2.50 7:00am-Breakfast ,at CORBY'S Bloody Mary English Muffins 
12:00 noon to 3:00am Food/Drinks/Fun 
3:30 NO vs PENN STATE 7:30-? "Home Football" 
Finale atCORBY'S 
0 IRISH, BEAT PENN STAT 


This was the first official portrait of Brezhnev to be posted Thursday after the announcement of his death at age 75. The portrait was put up at the official Tass news agency. ( APPhoto) 
Cli~ this coupon for 'NiP!~~~ savmgs on fun at iJ--~-----;tf.=J 
7 GAMEROOM TOKENS 
(regularly .25 ea.) 
40 GAMEROOM TOKENS 
offer expires 12/31/ 82 
Try: 

Joust Donkey Kong  Ms. Pac·Man Moon Patrol  
Qix  Zaxxon  Tron  Dig Dug  
Robotron  Frogger  Tempest  Centipede  

......~ ........... Putt-Putt Golf & Games ............ . 259-4171 3615 N. Main Mishawaka 
(take Angela to Edison , 2 miles to Main 

ByWARREN BERRY 
News Staff 
The Center ofPastoral Liturgy will 
host an international liturgical con­
ference in the University's Center 
for Continuing Education June 13­
16. 
The topic of the conference is "Renewal! Perspectives on Twenty Years of Liturgical Change" and will feature speakers who attended the Second Vatican Council. 
"We seek to take stock of the last 
The major presentations at the conference will be from theologians who were present at the Second Vatican Council at its opening in 1962, either as "periti" (theological experts) or as observers. "Among them," Field said, "will be men who were instramental in the writing of the Sacred Constitution itself." 
Conference participants include Father Godfrey Diekmann, former editor of"Worship" magazine and a monk frnm "• '"hn'~ ~ hhey in Min­nesota; Father Balthasar Fischer, a theologian from the University of Trier, West Germany, and a prominent figure at the Council; and Reverend Eugene Brand, an American Lutheran delegate to the World Council of Churches in Geneva, and an observer at the Council. 
This year's meeting marks the 12th annual Notr'e Dame pastoral liturgical conferemce. 


-----------·-----------­
The Observer Friday, November 12, 1982-page 8 
• • .Brinkley 

Veterans Day was observed around the country yesterday. This New Orleans battlefield cemetery shown here is the resting place for over 15,000 American veterans ofall services. ( AP Photo) 

iKniglJts nf<!rnlmnbus 
sponsorsa 
SECOND AND THIRD DEGREE 
Sunday, November 14 at 11 :30 All First Degree Knights are 
Coatand tie Requested 




Kof C Hall 

JIJ~II>II< I>I<ISS J>rf?St?llts
·--------------------------,I 
1 
I 
I
1 (),.12~•~>11 ~.:lllt?lfl,~§ I 11-11 fi2()ZE~ MIIJE~ ()f (Al()lJ~~IA \ ,.-lttl~ ,.-l!lrnslt:Cll~ rn()clt?rll-ciCll rnltli. ()ll s~l£> ll(),., Clt til£> 1-iClrnrnt?s ~()tr£> ()()rn£> 13()()i;(§t()r£> 
--------------------------~ 
Live for God and His People as a ••. 
... 
~·· 

Capuchin 
B''What? ' 

Capuchin Franciscans are a r~igious fraternity of men tryj~ to live the Gospel in ; \ • the Spirit of Francis of Assisi in today's 
.. · world. , . 
Join us in promoting peace, education, and justice--in ghettoes... in jails... in soup kitchens... in parishes ... in halfway l:louses ... on radio and TV. 
Join us in working with and for the advancement of blacks, whites, Hispanics, native Americans artd peoi>le of the Third· World in Central America. 
Check out whether being a Capuchin,. committed to living for GOd and his people, in the spirit of Francis; is for you. No obligation.· Write today for more. 
inform~ion. 
........................ Clip •nd Mall Toct.yl ················-···· .·Father John Holly, OFM C.,uchln; 1820Mt. ElliC\tt Avenue, . · DetrOit, Ml 48207 . Yes, aeno me information about the Ctpuchln way of life. Name Age ____ 
College -------Address ------­
City :..·_._ _.___ State -----ZiP--­
I 
1I 
I 
I 
1I 
Celebrate NO's last home football1 weekend at: 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
continuedfrom page 3 
Politburo's members have identical poltical backgrounds and have served long terms in the Secretariat; therefore, they share ''a common background of professional party service." Additionally, the avarage age of Politburo members is 70 (the two exceptions are a member in his mid-80s, and a 51-year-old "upstart"), and most of them have been working together in party politcs for more than two decades. For this reason, Brinkley maintains, "The stakes are weighted in favor of cooperation, because they (the members ofthe Politburo) will go to extreme lengths to avoid a tailing 
TheNAZZ 
Friday, Nov 12 SHENANIGANS 9-11 Saturday, Nov.l3 9pm SHAPESHIFTER II written &presented byDavid Pierson Garnide 
9:30 The Belletones 10:30-?Open Stage 
---------------------------------------~ 
AUTHENTIC MEXICAN FOOD 
ELMATADOR 
MEXICAN RESTAURANT 
IN SOUTH BEND 2110 W. WESTERN AVE. 
288 3600 ••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
H -. I FREE FANTASTIC VALUE FREE I 
T ue~u~ed ~ Buy One Dinner at Reg. Price ~ Thur~11·9' t ELMATADOR GetSecondDiliner ELMATADOR ~ Frl·, Sat g212ow. WESTERN fREE 212ow. wEsTERN 
5 
u SOUTH BEND SOUTH BEND U 
11-11 I 
·.EXPIRES 11-25-82 DINE-IN OR CARRY-OUT NO LIMIT I THIS COUPON NOT GOOD WITH ANY OTHER SPECIAL 

out." 
When asked how Brezhnev's tenure will be interpreted by his­torians, Brinkley commented that 
November 12 

Contract (1 980J Krzystof Zanuss1. Poland color. 114 ~un In Pohsh w1th Engl1sh sub1111es tnsplfed by lhe 1dea oul diSliking lhe execu11on of Rober! Al!man·s 1ne Weddmg. Zanuss1 undertook lh1s amb1t1ous. polyphomc comedy cente•­lng on a two·day wedding celebralion among the Po11sh haute bourgeo1se Balanc1ng buoyant farce w11h scath1ng soc1a. commenl. Zanuss1 pa1nts an eenly prophetiC v1s1on of a detenoraling soc1e1y heaa,ng retentlesstv 1oward the bnnk Admission 
Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum $ 2 . 0­
0
"----~r 1() ~ ll117lti ~r----...., 
GO'GlPOB
eaa.••••••mea Jnlts4 JrinqJt55tria FREE Serving Polish Style & Italian DELIVERY pizza, Pieroge, Sandwiches toND&SMC 272-8030 
18061 South Bend Ave. $200 0 FF any latfae I ~lllo,k \<l'\IOtlnlii\\OOdon\t.nl.2~ $150 OFF any me ("\ot ·~ood" ith otlwrroupoii\Ordi,count') $100 OFF any small 
'-----------GO'G~B----------~ 
' 

r---------------------------------------, 
Brezhnev will be viewed as a leader who kept the Soviets "on an even keel." 
Because the rebels were in peril ot losing control of the situation, Mos­cow came to their aid. Brinkley expressed the view that the Soviets "would be happy to get out if they could, and they are, in fact, looking for a way to save face in a no-win situation." 
In the area of nuclear disarma­ment negotiations, Brinkley ob­served that the United States hurt itself by rejecting the SALT II treaty because the Soviets viewed the treaty as "a realistic approach to the issue." Although SALT II did not magically solve the problem of the threat of nuclear weapons, it nevertheless was, in Brinkley's opinion, "a negotiated stalemate 
based upon knowledge of ultimate destruction.·· 
Furthermore, Brinkley bases his prediction ofinternal Soviet stability upon the structure of the Soviet political system. In his view, the Soviet system is a constitutional sys­tem in which the party controls the state. Accordingly, the government takes its orders from the party, which is controlled by the General Secretary. Although this system has been in use for several decades, it is interesting to note that the postion wf General Secretary was not oftl­cially created until 1966. 
On issues pertaining to the vehicles of government, the Soviet constitution lacks specific defini· tion. Hence, the importance of the 
power  of  individual  politicians  
becomes  a  significant  aspect  of  
government.  

When asked to comment upon the impact of Brezhnev's death on domestic politics, Brinkley stated that the transition to a new regime will probably occur without inci­dent. Brinkley feels that Andropov, former head ofthe KGB, will assume Brezhnev's position, if he has not al· ready done so. 
An interesting sidelight is that Andropov is responsible for coordinating Brezhnev's funeral ar­rangements. According to Brinkley, there are two possible reasons for this: either Andropov is Brezhnev's actual successor and as such, has al­ready assumed his position, or else he is being momentarily appe~ed until a successor is named. 
Last chance Beaux Arts clue 
The new Beaux Arts Ball tickets and case of even cheaper beer have not yet been found. This is your last chance. We wouldn't lie to you. The costume theme is "Bad Taste." The affair will be held tonight from 9 to 2 in the Architecture Building. The best trustee costume will win a seat on the Board of Trustees Authentic trustee members will be awarded a four-year scholarship Tickets are $4 and will be sold tonight in the dining halls and at the door. The bands The Kinetics (formerly The Verbs) and The Rooms will play until Thanksgiving break. "I was already refusing to have taste. I forbade myselfto have it. I knew that the cul­tivation of it would have not refined but softened me. (Jean Genet) 
Our case of beer has yet to be found 
But it rests gent.ly above holy 
ground 
Now among the rocks 
You now will allflock 

And Bad Taste toast to those 
fraying around 


--~ -~~---~-~ ------~-----------...... 
The Observer Friday, November 12, 1982-page 9 
• • .Library 
continuedfrom page I 
wall here an<.! painting a ceiling here won't <.lo it. 
"They are reluctant to commit several million dollars to a project without studying it fully," Burke said. 
The problem of on-campus 
housing for graduate students was 
also raised. There are currently only 
99 on-campus slots open to graduate 
students. The trustees are being 
asked to decide if graduate students 
should become more integrated on­
campus. 
"The trustees have to decide if they want to undertake a building program to house these people. Right now demand is outstripping supply at least ten to one," said Burke. 
At tonight's dinner atop the Memorial Library, a former trustee, John T. Ryan, will be honored for his recent donation to the University 
Libraries ofan undisclosed sum. The 
gift has been cited by the University 
as "the largest" ever made to the 
libraries. 
The donation comes at a time 
when the Memorial Library recieved 
an unfavorable ranking in a national 
survey conducted by the Associa­
tion of Research Libraries. The trus­
tees will have to decide to what 
extent the Library will computerize 
in the coming years. A portion of 
Ryan's donation will go to cover an 
automation of the library's circula­
tion department. 
Whether the library should ex­tend its computerization to the ac4uisition of books in electronic form is a question the trustees will 
continuetJfrom page 1 
lnited States senators. as well as tht· State Department. on the prospects for SALT II ratification. The t ·.:-;. and the t .S.S. R. have signed 16 agree­ments regarding nuclt-ar limitations and :\lt:nddsohn feels the SALT II agreement is the most important of the~e. He is discouraged by the Senate's refusal w ratify the agree­
ment. as the Rus~ian~ since have in­cre;L,ed drastically the number of weapons the treaty sought to eliminate. 
:\-lendelsohn worries about the lack of effort necessary for the start 
Suspected IRA terrorists killed 
BELFAST, Northern Ireland (AP) -Police said they shot and killed three men suspected of being Irish Republican Army terrorists when the men tried to ram their car through a roadblock near Lurgan last night. 
They said one officer was injured when he was struck by the car and the other policemen then opened fire. 
A press spokesman at the Belfast headquarters of the Royal Ulster Constabulary said one of the men 
• • .Mendelsohn 
ofnuclear war. He somewhat joking­ly suggests placing the codes to launch missiles "in a capsule in someone's chest" so that the presi­dent would have to cut through the man's che~t in order to start a war. Such a move would "make nuclear war real in terms of the death it will 
hring." 
:'1/otre Dame was among 5-s uni­versities and colleges across the na­tion participating in the second annual Convocation on Solutions to the Nuclear Anns Race .yesterday. Notre Dame was also a participant in last year's Convocation in which less than half this year's number of in­stitutions took part. 
:::f(:-:-:::::::::;::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::,:,:,::;:;::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;: 
•Monty ::.~:n~~~~~:;~:~:for ~ 
••..•  Something Completely Different'j  
··  Knights of Columbus Hall Nov. 12 (fri) 7 ,9, 1 t  
Nov 13 (Sat) 8,1 0,12 midnight  )  
::::  $1  MEMBERS FREE  j  

·::::::;:::::::::::::::;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:::::::·:::::::·:·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ 


killed was a high-ranking member of the outlawed IRA and all all three were being sought for questioning, but no names were released. 
The shooting occurred in the same area, about 20 miles southwest of Belfast, where three police of­ficers were killed Oct. 27 when a bomb planted by IRA guerrillas blasted their patrol car. 
The deaths brought to 12 the number of people slain during the past three weeks in Northern Ireland's sectarian violence. There have been 2,240 known deaths at­tributed to the fighting that flared 13 years ago between militant Roman Catholics and Protestants. 
The mainly Catholic IRA is light­ing to drive the British from predominantly Protestant Northern Ireland. It wants to unite the British province with the overwhelmingly Catholic lri!'>h Republic. 
******* 

discuss today. "Should 'we get com­puters or books or what?" ~aid trus­tee FatherJohn C. Gerber. 
Burke hopes that the Board will "stop reacting to problems and in­stead anticipate them." He also cited 
Dean of Students James Roemer's 
recent alcohol directives as being 
"good, but examples of how action 
wasn't taken until the problem got 
out ofhand." 
The trustees are also examining their own role in the decision­making process of the University. Currently, they meet each spring and fall to plot the course ofthe Uni­versity. 
The trustees consist of 39 men and five women. Among the more notable are John D. Rockefeller, the Governor of West Virginia, and Jane 
C. Pfeiffer, the former President of :'IIBC. 
Trustees who are the heads of 
their companies include Roger E. 
Birk, of Merrill Lynch; Robert W. 
Galvin, of Motorola; ]. Peter Grace, 
of W.R. Grace and Co.; Edmond R. 
Haggar, of the Haggar Co. and 
benefactor of Haggar Hall on 
campus; Donald R. Keough, ofCoca­
Cola; Anthony ].F. O'Reilly, of H.]. 
Heinz; Ernestine M. Radin, of the 
First Source Corporation of South 
Bend; and Richard R. Shinn, of 
Metropolitan Life. 
Besides Father Hesburgh, Univer­sity Provost Timothy O'Meara, and Executive Vice President Father Ed­mund P. Joyce are trustees. 
james Stevens, 18, a former student at Lake Braddock High School in Burke, Va., has been identified as holding seven hostages Wednesday at the 4,300-student school in Fairfax County. This picture isfrom the school's yearbook. (AP Photo) 





or write to 164 E. Cleveland Rd. South Bend. I" 4663 7 
******* ******* 

Editorials 
Friday, November 12, 1982-page 10 
Conventional war: more acceptable than nuclear weapons? 
Yesterday's Mass for Peace proved a sincere attempt to halt the nuclear arms race. In a tru­ly noble protest against nuclear war, Fr. Hes­burgh voiced a heartfelt commitment to end the greatest threat to the modern world. 
Hesburgh's homily at the II:30 Mass ap-
Paul McGinn 

Roper Review 
pealed to the 250 persons gathered to search 
for a "victory for all humanity." 
But the Christian context in which the argu­ment was presented seemed to convey a less­than sincere attitude toward conventional warfare. The Declaration on Prevention of 
Nuclear War, prepared by an "Assembly of Scientific Academies," and signed by Father Hesburgh, states that, "Nuclear weapons are fundamentally differen! from conventi01:al weapons. They must not be regarded as ac­ceptable instruments of warfare. Nuclear warfare would be a crime against humanity." 
Somehow the spirit of this document 
presents only a case against the use ofnuclear 
weapons. The statement in no way condemns 
conventional warfare. The statement clearly 
distinguishes between the irreconcilable 
ecological and genetic effects of nuclear war 
and the seemingly reconcilable effects ofcon­
ventional warfare. 
What about the horrors ofWorld War II? Do 
these scholars and scientists close their eyes 
to the 50 million who died between I939 and 
I945? 

It seems that conventional warfare has been with the world so long that we have grown accustomed to it. Perhaps the screams for "Mother!" from a I7-year-old boy caught in barbed wire 'or the death groans of a legless land mine victim grow faint in the dust ofhigh school history textbooks. Do we forget those who were killed or maimed in the trenches, foxholes, and jungles of France, Korea and Vietnam? 
Americans have been so very lucky. Since January 8, I8I5, when the British attacked Jackson's force at New Orleans, no foreign power has invaded the continental United States. Even when the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor and invaded the Aleutians in World War II, most Americans were insulated from the threat. 
The only Americans who braved the fear of immediate annihilation were shipped "over there," far from the ticker tape of Wall Street and the cornfields of the Midwest. These young men and women alone faced the streaming bullets, falling bombs, and asphixiating gases. 
But for more than 30 years, warfare has no longer been thought of as "over there." Nuclear war has brought death and agony to welcome mats throughout America. War con­fronts each ofus squarely in the face. We have no one lO send in our stead; we have only our­selves to sacrifice. Old and young alike face the agony previously reserved for those Americans ofdraftable age. 
Do we hope to replace our nuclear arms build-up with a conventional arms build-up? Do we really hope to construct an air-tight "Just War Theory" based on gunpowder and bayonets? 
The nuclear arms race is not the intrinsic evil; war is. And until we can rid the world of the fear and lust for power which brings about war, we cannot hope to save ourselves. Nuclear weapons are just that, weapons. And though they are the most destructive weapons ever produced, they can be replaced by other more effective weapons, such as death rays, or by greater quantities of con­tained weapons, such as incendiary bombs. 
When we seek to preserve human lives, we cannot forfeit the lives of the young for the sake ofthose not ofdraftable age. Death is still death whether it be at the point of a gun or from the long-term effects ofa nuclear explo­sion. For too long, the young have borne the consequences ofour implicit approyal ofcon­ventional warfare. 
Ifwe are to sincerely decry nuclear warfare, we must just as vehemently criticize conven­tional warfare, We cannot base our Christian ethics solely on numbers and· atomic half­lives. One human life is too precious to so stupidly forfeit on any war. 
News writing: get the basics straight first 
How does one write the lead to an article about a man who teaches writers how to con­struct leads? Roy Peter Clark would suggest that the writer start with the first word, chose it carefully, and move on to the second. 
Clark is the assistant director ofthe Modern 
Skip Desjardin 

On the Media 
Media Institute in St. Petersburg, Fla. -a kind of"think tank" for the newspaper business. He calls himself"an aspiring writer and a teacher of writing." This week, he came to Notre Dame to lecture, suggest, and encourage other people with similar aspirations, 
Strong reporters make the best writers, Clark maintains, but that doesn't mean that every reporter should fill his story with no­thing but facts. 
Newspapers have entered an age of grap­hics. At many papers, the way a page looks take precedence over what it says. That is dan-
We at Notre Dame live in a comfortable and insulated world. The outside seems distant and almost inconsequential. Our lives tend to be very busy, and we remain very isolated from the world's problems. The nation is suffering through some of the worst 
Randy Fahs Friday Analysis 
economic times since the Great Depression, but it doesn't really affect us very much. 
We are ND. We are young, intelligent, and for the most part, financially comfortable. Our prospects are bright; we will walk away from here into nice jobs, nice houses, nice wives or husbands, nice neighborhoods, and nice lifestyles. We'll raise our children in this nice atmosphere. We'll give them the best ofevery­thing and hope they grow up to be like us, except more successful. What more could we possibly ask for? 
The world is not always a "nice place." This is something we all know, but we tend to for­get it in our busy, far removed daily lives. Poor housing, robbery, drug abuse, unemploy­ment, and violence are an integral part ofmost persons' daily lives. For us they are merely "unpleasant events" on the 1V news or on the front page of the paper. When we tire of gerous, says Clark, and he's out to change it. 
"But I'm not a lonely voice in the wilder­ness," he insists. "In the last five years, it is clear, there has been a tremendous movement toward the talented leadership in the industry insisting on better writing, 
"Talened editors and writers are collaborat­ing more and more to create inersting stories," 
Among the ways that papers are moving toward Clark's philosophy, which he developed during his years as an English professor at Auburn, are the establishment of libraries and competitions within papers ro promote and reward good writing. 
"It is no longer enough to simply present the facts," he told employees ofThe Observer at a seminar Wednesday, "We have become a more literate culture. As a society, we are bet­ter educated, more responsible, and harder to interest." 
And good writing, he believes is the key to informing and interesting the audience at the same time. 
"Attention to good writing leads you to ex­cellence m other areas," he believes, includ­ing careful reporting and an effort to present information in a balanced and fair manner. 
"Better journalism will sell newspapers," Clark says. "But it is important not to isolate writing skills. They must be viewed in relation to journalism as a whole." 
Clark makes very valid points. Too often, newspaper writers try to cram an enormous amount of facts and figures into a lead. As a result, the readers are discouraged, or turned off, and never read the rest -of the paper. An interesting lead can inform and insure further reading, if it is carefully constructed. 
"My advice to writers is always the same," Clark says. "Write, write, write. Confer, write, confer. Rewrite, rewrite, rewrite." 
An understanding editor can foster good writing by using some encouragement -as well as sharing his accumulated knowledge. But too often, editors offer only negative feed­back, discouraging a young writer before he even begins. 
"Good writers are constantly pushing to the outside ofthe envelope, taking conventions to 
Our common responsibility 
hearing or reading about them, we can make them seem to vanish by changing the channel or by picking up the sports section. But, these problems are real, and for people affected by them, there is no easy means ofescape. 
So what do we do to combat this situation? Well, if our consciences make us feel a little bit guilty, we can always dig down a little deeper in our pockets for the United Way and Catholic Charities. Or maybe we can adopt a child in a foreign country. We could make a real sacrifice of our time and take the Urban Plunge. Then we could all go down to the ghetto and learn how to relate to the problems. 
An "unfortunate" or "disadvantaged" per­son is not a freak in a sideshow or a study specimen in a museum. They don't want our pity or the money we use to salve our aching consciences. The poor, the elderly, th. \'ic­timized, and the emotionally disturbed do not want sympathy or a few crumbs from our tables. They want an even break in this world. They also want an opportunity to maintain their dignity. I have no doubt that there are freeloaders amongst them, but for the most part they want a shot at the same chances and breaks that we have enjoyed. 
It is our responsibility to use part of our time and resources to make this a society with more equality of opportunity. There is no need to give away all ofour earthly goods ana take a vow ofpoverty. Rather, we have to stop leading such selfish and detached lifestyles. We have an obligation to upgrade city schools, vocational arts programs, public housing, elderly benefits, and job oppor­tunities. 
As educated people, we will soon be enter­ing into the elite. We can give money to com­bat the symptoms of social problems, or we 
.. ---T-. he __Q_bs_e~'D[___________ Editorial Board 
--·----.. -~ Y'-'. --·--· --···---­
their absolute limits," Clark maintains. "They are like the old TV character Palladin in "Have Gun, Will Travel." They must be ready to meet new challenges all the time, and deal with them in totally new ways." 
There are problems with Clark's philosophies, however. 
It is dangerous to start young writer~ out in this business with the notion that every story has to start out "cute." There is a place in the newspaper industry for a straight, convention­al news lead -as long as it is factual and concise. Clark walks a thin line in teaching in­novative leads as a common practice -a goal writers should strive for. 
In too many cases, writers need to learn the basics ofnews writing before they can go after Pulitzer Prizes, 
While Clark is to be commend~d for "campaigning" for better writing in America'!> newspapers, he needs to use a rubber mallet to drive the point home. His use of a sledgehammer threatens to smash the simpler, yet equally important, facets of reporting in the process. 
can work to change the institutions and the social realities which have caused them in the first place. We have to stop treating urban problems as part ofanother world, It is time to take Notre Dame's Christian ideals off the mantle and put them into practice in our daily lives. Only then will people be able to share in the American dream and not become embit­tered and swindled by it. 

.,,,,. 0/Jiet"l"l'l" ~~ an indepcndcn: ncw,pJper l'uhl"lwd b)· the 'tudent'> of the l 'tiiH'r'tty of Notre D.1me du 1..1, .l!ld SJint l\1,1ry\ ( oliL',I!C::. It due> r:ot mu·".tnly rcfkd the roli<IC''> of the Jdllll(ll'lr.IIIOII ,,,. l'ithcr lllStituliOil The nL""-'' ,, report e,l .t\ .t<curJtelr and .l~ uhJL~tl\dy .l~ po-;"hk. Fdtton.d' rcpre,cnt the upt:llon of .I rn.qonty of the rJ,tun.tl Boar,!. Co.nrncnLifll''. opintom Jnd letters .lrt' the \"lt'WS of thctr author,. ( olumn S{'J<t' '' JYJtL1hk 11> .dl memhcr, ot the <Ornmuntty, ,mJ the frec expression of varymg opmwns on .;ampu>, through letter>. 1~ enLounged. 
P.O.Hox Q, Notre l>amt·, IN -t6556 (219) 259-5.)0.~ 
Editor-in-Chief.........."" .. Michael Monk Managing Editor.............. Ryan Yt'r Bt'rkmot's Executi1•e Neu•s Editor........ ··«···Dave Dziedzic SMC Executit•e Editor .... ...... Margart't h>smot' .~ports Editor ........Chris ~c:c:dks Editorials Editor·······"· ..... Paul McGinn 
Features Editor. .......Tari Brown Photo Etlitt1r ........ . . ....... Rachd Blount 
Department Manage~s 

Business Manager ······················"·"··Tom Aiello Controller ···························"······"···"···Eric ~chul1. Advertising Manager.......................Chri' Owen Production Manager..... .... Maura \lurphv Circulation Manager ......."'"""·····Ray lnglin Svstems Manager "·············«····"····Bruce Oal-ln 
Founded November 3,1966 

INSIDE: Taming the Nittany Lions 

the mdqwndl·nt -..tudl'nt Ill'\\ '-P;t)XT ,t·n ing notre dame .tnd -...tint man·., 
··-_ IRISH EXTRA 
Showdown at sunset 
Irish meet Nittany Lions in key rematch with revenge-----and more --at sta-ke 
By MIKE RICCARDI 
Sports Writer 
One time, on an episode of the the old television program "Mission Impossible," the self-destructing tape carried a message for Mr. Phelps, the character played by Peter Graves: "Your mission -should you decide to accept it -would be to retrieve some con­fidential Pentagon dispatch from the clutches ofa dan­gerous group of Central American revolutionaries." After Phelps had completed his task, however, he found that he had to return the dispatch over a mine field. 
Notre Damefinds itself in a similar situation Saturday. Having come up with their supreme effort ofthe season in beating previously No. 1 Pitt last week in Pittsburgh, the Irish must face an even more difficult foe -a red­hot, fifth-ranked Penn State ( 8-1) team rolls into town to play 6-1-1 Notre Dame late Saturday afternoon ( 3:50 
p.m) at the Stadium in the second game this season un­der Musco's portable lights. 
This is the Nittany Lions' first trip to northern Indiana 
in over five decades -PSU was shut out by Knute 
Rockne's 1926 squad, 28-0, on Cartier Field -and their 
first-ever appearance in Notre Dame Stadium. 
"(Playing in ND Stadium) will be a good experience 
for us," says Penn State Head CoachJoe Pat t erno, now in 
his 17th year at the helm. "I'm sure the Notre Dame kids 
will be very enthusiastic, but it doesn't make a dif­
ference where we play. The crowd can't tackle you, un­
less they have different rules om there. 
"We've played before big. vocal crowds away from 
home before: our guys get more fired up when there's 
that kind ofelectricity in the air.•· 
While upsetting Pittsburgh was a tall order, Notre Dame Head Coach Gerry Fau~t feels that Penn State poses an even greater problem for the Irish. "At the end oflast year, after they beat Pitt and USC, I felt they were the best team in the country," says Faust, "and this (year's) team is even better. They're scoring more, causing more turnovers, and they've only given up 17 points in the last three games." · 
What makes this Penn State team different from those of past years is its unusually explosive offense. Histori­cally, State has utilized the overland route to the end zone. This PSU squad may be the first Nittany team since 1950 to pass for more yardage than it gains on the ground-with 2,0.31 yards passing, the Lions need only 256 more to surpass their school record. 
f-' 

Quarterback Todd Blackledge, who wasn't given the pre-season hype of the sort ac­corded tO Pitt's Dan Marino, has had an even better campaign than the "other quarterback" in Pennsylvania. Blackledge, who like Notre Dame's Blair Kiel had been much-maligned in his first two seasons, is well on his way to breaking many of Maxwell Award winner Chuck Fusina's PSU records. 
The 6-4, 220-pound junior's sure-handed \ targets include flanker Kenny Jackson, split 
\ 

end Greg Garrity, tailback Curt Warner, ful­lback Jonathan Williams and tight end Mike McCloskey. 
"Kenny is by far the most explosive receiver I've ever had," says Paterno ofJack­son, who is coming off back-to-back 100-yard 
receiving days. "He's very dangerous." 
Blackledge's surprising success -he now has 1,880 passing yards after PSU's 54-0 sacrifice of North Carolina State -has enabled the Lions to compile awesome of­fensive figures. Penn State has scored 36.1 points per game while chewing up 434.6 yards of total offense, numbers good for rankings of third and seventh, respectively, in the nation. 
"The biggest difference I can see in Penn State offensively is the mileage they are get­ting out of Todd Blackledge," says Faust. "He 
Curt Warner 
See OUTLOOK, page 13 

"Small Wonder-ful" 
Howard attributes accomplishments of recent years to parents, coaches 
By DAPHNE BA1lLLE 
Sports Writer 
Joe Howard caught only one pass in last week's 31-16 upset of Pittsburgh, but that one was spectacular. The now famous "29 Special" flea-flicker resulted in six points and an Irish lead that held for the rest of the game. 
"I was nervous ," says the sophomore flanker with a smile, remembering Kiel's pass sailing through the air. "I just wanted to catch the ball and then run with it .... I thought, 'If I drop it, I might as well just keep on run­ning right through the tunnel and out ofthe stadium."' 
Fortunately for the Irish, Howard hung on to the ball and galloped on to a 54-yard touchdown, his first ofthe season. The catch ranks right up there in the receiver's memory with last year's record 96-yard touchdown grab against Georgia Tech. 
"I hadn't caught a long pass all year," says Howard, nicknamed "Small Wonder" because of his diminutive size. "It felt good to catch that one." 
Running longer routes as a freshman last season, the 5-9, 167-pounder averaged 27.2 yards per reception on 1 7 catches while playing only halfthe season. This year, Howard is second only to Tony Hunter in the receiving department, boasting 21 catches for 347 yards. In addi­tion, he has returned five kickoffs for 111 yards, a 22.2 yard average. 
Still, Howard hopes to improve. 
"I definitely feel more confident than I did last year," says the Clinton, Md., native. "I'd like to get betterevery year." 
The Irish hierarchy would like that too. "The coaches have: helped a lot," says Howard. "Last year we didn't have one coach especially for the 
having a coach with you for the whole practice to tell you what you're doing wrong. 
"Both coaches stress blocking and running good routes," continues Howard, "so I've improved in those areas. They also tell us how important it is to catch every pass that comes to us." 
Catching passes can be very difficult when hungry hungry defensive backs are waiting to feast on the receiver. 
"You don't catch the ball when you're worried about being hit," comments Howard, an accounting major. "A receiver can't let the defensive backs distract him. I'd rather catch the pass and get hit than not catch the pass at .all.'' 
Naturally, Howard takes his share ofhits. 
"I get bruised up a lot," admits Howard. "I've gotten hurt in just about every game -I've had my shoulder knocked out, I damaged a nerve in my leg .... or sometimes I just get knocked dizzy." 
There was a time when Howard was the one doing 
the hitting. 

"I played free safety all four years in high school," explains Howard, who nabbed 12 interceptions his senior year while leading his Carroll High team in tackles. He was also a standout at a variety of positions on offense, including wide receiver, wingback and run­ning back. 
"When I came here, Coach (Greg) Blache asked if I wanted to play offense or defense," recalls Howard. "I like having the ball more tho.n trying to get the ball from the other team. I like to score, so I try to catch the ball wherever it is and then make the big play." 
If Howard's efforts prove ineffective, there are other 
receivers ready to fill his shoes. 
receivers. This year Coach (Ron) Hudson works with
Joe Howard 

the quarterbacks and receivers, and Coach (Brian) SeejOE, pqe 13 Boulac helps the receivers too. There's a big difference 

~---~---~-------­

The Irish Extra-Penn State Friday, November 12, 1982 -page 12 
From A to 'Z,' he's top 
Zavagnin enters last home game but he's not done playing yet 
By STEVEN LABATE 
Sports Writer 
This Saturday, senior co-captain Mark Zavagnin will be playing in his last home· football game for Notre Dame. Over the last four seasons, Zavagnin has been perhaps the most steady and consistent player on the Irish defensive unit. 
Three of those years, Zavagnin started at inside linebacker. But this season, in the wake of Bob Crable's departure to the NFL, linebacker coach George Kelly moved him to the vacated middle linebacker slot. 
• Zavagnin has made the transition look easy. "There really isn't that much ofa difference between middle linebacker and weakside linebacker," says Zavagnin. "I don't think the transition was that hard. I'm not trying to make people forget about Bob Crable, but I 
.. hope people realize I'm doing the best I can to fill Bob Crable's shoes." 
Zavagnin feels that there is room for improvement in his game. That may be true, but last week in the upset of Pittsburgh, No. 46 was nothing less than awesome. 

Against the Panthers, Zavagnin was credited with 16 tackles. The game surely was one of the finest of his career. 
"I definitely think it was one of my best," he says. "Last week the intensity was so high. 
"I would say that (the loss to Arizona and the tie with Oregon) was due to a lack ofintensity and an inability to play four quarters offootball. We lost the Arizona game in the fourth quarter. We tied the Oregon game because we didn't play a third quarter. We just weren't there." 
In spite ofthe earlier back-to-back disappointments, the defensive unit this season has resembled the familiar stingy defenses ofthe past. Zavagnin credits the unit's success to the new philosophy advocated by the coaches, and practiced by the players. 
You see, the past few seasons, the defense was cen­tered around the talents of All-American Bob Crable. The alignments were such that Crable was free most of the time to make the tackles. "But this year we've been playing with a team aspect," Zavagnin says. "In previous years it seems like we counted on one or two people to make the big play. Now everybody gets to the ball and helps each other out on the field." 
Zavagnin's presence in the middle looms large in the minds of opposing coaches when devising their gameplans. 
"A good coaching move is to always pick on the least experienced person," says the 6-3, 228-pound senior. "I don't know ifpeople are intimidated by me or are afraid to run at me, but it definitely has contributed to (fellow linebacker) Mike Larkin's success. Teams have tested him and he has passed those tests." 
For the seniors the last four years have been a series of ups and downs. They have reached the emotional highs associated with last second victories, and the dis­couraging lows that result from clutch game losses. 
"Losing to USC my sophomore year after we had got­ten the bid to go to the Sugar Bowl to play tor the National Championship was a very low point for me," says the Evergreen Park, Ill., native. "It was something that I really felt bad about. I was fond of Coach (Dan) Devine and I felt he deserved better. 
"Last season as a whole was disappointing a-; well. To pick out a game, it would have to be Michigan. I've never felt so helpless on a football field. We went into the game No. l and we were embarrassed." 
Like the other seniors, Mark has split his collegiate football experience under the reigns of two different coaches: one a seasoned veteran, the other a charis­matic newcomer. Zavagnin, unlike some other players, has nothing but praise for Dan Devine. 
"Dan Devine taught me so much about college life," Zavagnin says. "When I was recruited by him, he told me exactly what was going to happen. He was totally honest with me. I respected him while he was here and 1 still do now." 
Zavagnin is also quick to tell of his respect for Gerry Faust. "Gerry Faust has really been a big part ofmy foot­ball playing," he says. "I find myself playing with more excitement and being in more control ofmyselfand the defense. Comparing the both ofthem, both have helped me immensely in my life. It's something that I won't forget." 
Zavagnin also won't forget last Saturday in Pittsburgh. He called the game his most satisfying in a Notre Dame uniform, and he feels its magnitude will be felt not only the rest ofthis season but in the years to come as well. 
"I really believe that last week this team has learned what it can do," he says. "The younger guys never ex­perienced something like riding home on the bus, com­ing down Notre Dame Avenue with 4,000 people there. It really showed them what the Notre Dame winning
tradition is all about." 
Saturday's Penn State game will be the last home ap­pearance for Mark Zavagnin and 19 other seniors. He'll 
Tim Scann9'JT'S dilemma 
State College, Pa.. , native shuns Penn St. to follow his father's footsteps 
By DONNA WITZLEBEN 
Sports Writer 

As an All-State offensive guard in high school, Tim Scannell was a blue-chipper college propect. Gerry Faust was one of many big-time coaches in the recruiting scramble for Scannell. 
Faust had many advantages over the other coaches vying for Scannell -Faust could offer him the richest football tradi­tion in the country. But an even greater ad­vantage for Faust was that the Scannell family has a rich Notre Dame tradition of its own. 
Scannell's father, Rob t ert, is a graduate of Notre Dame and he played varsity football for the Irish; Scannell's mother went to St. Mary's and his grandfather founded, and then chaired the Notre Dame Physical Education department for 40 years. 
Doesn't seem like too tough of a job for Faust and his staff, does it? 
But it was. 

It was also one ofthe most difficult deci­sions that Tim Scannell has ever been asked to make. 
Scannell hails from State College, Pa. and he has spent his entire life growing up in the heartland ofJoe Paterno and his Penn State University Nittany Lions. Scannell's father is the Vice-President and Dean ofthe Commonwealth Educational System at Penn State and his oldest brother attended Penn State. Scannell knows all of the Penn State coaches. He also knows most of the football players from workouts. In addi­tion, many ofhis friends from State College Area High School have enroled at PSU. 
In addition, Nittany Lion Head Coach joe Paterno and his staff too had set their hopes on signing him. Now all Scannell had to do was decide between the two. 
It isn't easy to decide between two ofthe classiest collegiate football programs in the nation. And it isn't easy to decide be­tween two ofthe most charismatic football coaches in the business, especially when you're bound to step on a few toes no mat­ter which you choose. 
"It was definitely not an easy decision," recalls the 255-lb. business major, "With such close family ties to both schools it was really tough. But I finally chose Notre Dame because I wanted to go away to school, and Notre Dame's football tradi­tion is unbeatable. 
"My family was very supportive. And my dad told me that the decision was up to me. I knew that they would stick by me no mat­ter what I decided. I am very happy with my decision." 
Needless to say, Faust too is very happy with his decision. "Tim has to have a lot of intestinal fortitude to have made such a tough decision," says Faust, who on his second visit to State College came back with Scannell's commitment. "I really respect Tim as an individual. Notre Dame is lucky to have him, he's a real asset ­both on and offthe field,"adds Faust. 
As for Paterno, Scannell diplomatically describes him as "a bit disappointed but understanding." 
Scannell has seen limited action this season as he is playing behind Neil Maune on the line. But freshman Scannell has 
leave the gridiron on Saturday night with a lifetime full 
ofmemories. 

"This will always be remembered as a happy part of 
my life," Zavagnin concludes. "It definitely is going to be a sad moment. Playing here in the stadium and looking up and seeing all the fans waving their hands. 
demonstrated great promise and prowess during practices and the games in which he has seen action. 
Saturday's game should prove an even more emotional and exciting experience than usual for Scannell, as the Nittany Lions come to NO Stadium. Obviously this is more than just a gridiron battle between two top twenty teams for him. 
"This game will be extra-special to me, since I know so many people who go to Penn State," says Scannell. "If we lose I'll hear about it all summer long." 
You couldn't ask for better incentive. 
Win or lose, however, Saturday after­noon will be a memorable one for Scannell, and a full-fledged family affair. 

Joe Paterno 

-------~-~-~--------·~---~-~-­
l 
The Irish Extra -Penn State Friday, November 12, 1982 -page 13 
l 
.·.Outlook
• 

continuedfrom page II 

was an excellent quarterback when we 
faced him a year ago, but Penn State has 
really come into its own as a team that can 
put the ball in the air. That, combined with 
the way Warner and Williams can run, 
makes it awfully difficult to defense them." 
The lions drove 82 yards for a fourth 
quarter touchdown to win last year's 
matchup, 24-21, at Beaver Stadium. Wil­
liams had runs of 13 and 24 yards in the 
drive to set up a one-yard Blackledge 
plunge for the winning score. Williams 
filled in for All-America candidate Warner 
and burned the Irish for 192 yards rushing. 
This year, Warner and Williams inhabit 
the same powderkeg of a backfield to give 
PSU a well-balanced attack. 
"The offensive game plan has been able 
to help the running game, because the pas­
sing attack has gone so well in the first half 
of the season," says Warner. "Our op­
ponents are looking for the pass, so we can 
run effectively." 
The PSU offense will have its hands full 
against a fired·up Irish defense, led by 
senior tri-captain Mark Zavagnin, who is 
comingoffa team-leading 16-tackle perfor­
mance against Pitt going into his final game 
at the Stadium. Zavagnin, sophomore Mike 
Larkin and Notre Dame's redoubtable front 
four, led by senior Kevin Griffith (five 
sacks), spearhead an Irish defense that 
remains ranked third in the nation against 
the rush. 
It remains to be seen whether the resur­
gence of the enigmatic Notre Dame of­
fense is more than a mirage. The Irish came 
up with the big plays last week, particularly 
the now-infamous flea-flicker and fresh­
man tailback Allen Pinkett's 76·yard touch­
down scamper. However, the Irish had the 
ball 15 minutes fewer than Pitt and 
produced I35 yards less between the goal 
lines. 
Kiel hit Joe Howard on the receiving end of the game-breaking 54-yard flea-flicker play. Howard, whom Kiel found four times for I02 yards last November2I in Univer­sity Park, Pinkett and leading receiver Tony Hunter remain Notre Dame's most potent big-play threats. 
The Uon defenders have allowed just 24 points, including two shutouts, over the past four weeks. "They're very aggressive," says Faust. "They create a lot of turnovers and they score a lot on defense." 
The latest "Linebacker U." Hercules, 
rBiackledge breaks loose 
:.I .Junior QB helps Penn State shun conservative image with aerial attack 
Scott Radecic, leads State with 53 tackles and has returned two interceptions for scores. 
From the season's beginning, Notre Dame's "Mission Impossible" was to reach its peak against Pitt, and maintain it against another Top Five opponent. 
Last week, the Irish stole the plans be· hind enemy lines. This week, they set out across the mine field. 
.Joe 
continuedfrom page II 

"I have a couple freshmen behind me who are pushing me at my position," says the sophomore. "During spring ball, I didn't push myself as hard as I would have if someone had been behind me pushing me. Now Milt Qackson), Mike (Haywood), and Van (Pearcy) have straightened me out. I know that any one of them could start head of me." 
Teammates are not the only ones who have pushed Howard; he attributes much ofhis success to his parents. 
"When I was small," recounts the receiver, "I played on some teams that only won two or three games. I told my parents that I wasn't going to play any more. 
"They told me that they'd never let me quit at anything. Even last year when I wasn't playing, there was a point when I wanted to go home -I wasn't used to sit· ting on the bench. My parents told me to hang in there, that things would go my way. It was kind ofsad the way I got to play -the people in front of me got hurt.'' 
Howard took advantage of the oppor­tunity when it came. 
"I was glad that the coaches trusted me enough to put me in there," he says. "It was just up to me to go out there and prove them right." 
Thirty-eight catches and 810 yards later, Howard seems to have done just that. 
"I just try to do the best that I can with· out giving up," says Howard, "because my parents taught me that. I'm thankful that they were there then -they helped me get where 1 am now." 
By MIKE POORMAN 
Perm State Daily Collegian 
UNIVERSITY PARK, Pa. -In Joe Paterno's I 7 years as head coach of Penn State, the never-completed road to No. I has been strictly an overland route. In fact, only one Nittany Uon quarterback -Heisman Trophy ru111ner-up Chuck Fusina -ever averaged more than 20 passes per game. 
And never, ever has a Penn State team coached by Paterno had a season where it gained more yardage passing than rushing, 
Until now. 

With games against Notre Dame and Pitt remaining, the 8-I Nittany Lions have averaged 226 yards per game passing and 209 yards per game rushing. The reason? Todd Bla·ckledge. 
It's mainly because of Blackledge that Penn State abandoned what had been the most con­servative attack this side ofWilliam F. Buckley Jr.'s tongue. The 6-4, 2I2-pound junior from No1rth Canton, Ohio, practically carried the Nittany Lion offense thru their first four games and has had the opposing team off balance all season. 
He threw four TD passes each in wins over Temple, Maryland and Rutgers, and passed for three against both Boston College and Nebraska, including a two-yarder against the Cornhuskers with two seconds remaining. 
Currently, Blackledge is ranked sixth in the natilon, and has thrown 20 touchdown passes this season and 39 in his career, to break a school record. 
"There was no way of knowing that Black­ledge would turn out to be as good as he's been," Paterno said. "He has just gotten better and better, and that is an indication he has been working at it.'' 
But it has been a gradual, and sometimes painful development, for Blacldedge. A senior academically, Blackledge red-shirted his first year at Penn State ( I 9 79) after breaking his right hand at the beginning offall workouts. 
Upon his return in I980, Blackledge had two fight Jeff Hostetler for the starting quar­terback position. It took four games for Black­ledge to earn a start, but after he did, he played so effectively that Hostetler transferred to West Virginia at the end ofthe season. 
In games Blackledge has started, the Nittany Lions have gone 26-4. But until this season, he has been plagued by inconsistency. For in­stance, last year at Miami, Blackledge com­plet4~d 26-of-4I passes for 358 yards. And Penn State lost. Last year against Notre Dame, he completed just 6-of-I3 for 66 yards. And Penn State won. 
You figure it out. Blackledge spent all ofthe past summer at University Park trying. to do just that. 
Jon Williams 
He interned at the local public television station and worked out daily with his roommate, Curt Warner, and flanker Kenny Jackson. In the process, Blacldedge dropped ten pounds, worked on his quickness and con­centrated on some minor aspects ofthe game. 
"This year, since 1 am so much more com­fortable with the offense, with our plays and with myself physically," says Blacldedge, "I've concentrated on the mental aspect and being a smarter quarterback." 
Not that Blackledge didn't have the smarts all along. He is a Phi Beta Kappa with a 3.82 grade point average, in this, his senior year. Despite his red-shirt year, Blackledge will graduate on schedule this spring and then has one ofthree options: 
He can go to graduate school at Penn State and play out his fourth year of eligibility; he can pursue his studies elsewhwre if awarded the Rhodes scholarship he desires; or, he can turn pro and take his chances in the quarterback-laden NFL draft this spring. 
Paterno said he talked to Blackledge prior to the seasom and the two agreed to put any future plans on the back burner for now. 
But backup Lion quarterback Doug Strang said he thinks that if Blackledge maintains his present pace, I982 will be Blackledge's final season as a Nittany Lion. 
" Im prepared for the worst," jokes Strang. 
All Blackledge will say is, "There's no sense in my thinking about it now as far as the future goes, I'll leave it in God's hands." 
And he is sincere when he says that. Ifany­thing is consistent with Blackledge, it is his rigid belief 
"Being a born-again Christian has given me real incentive to excel as a football player" Blackledge said." I know why I'm playing and who I'm playing for." 
As a reminder, in preseason Blackledge taped passages from the Bible to his locker. They have been a source of inspiration, both on and off the field. As a result, Blackledge is quite confident. 
"When you're well prepared mentally, physically, and spiritually, you don't have to worry about being nervous in a game," Black­ledge says. "Because when you're prepared, it's just a matter ofgoing out and doing it." 
Still, it did not prevent Blackledge, who is aiming for the national championship, from rooting for the Fighting Irish in last week's game against Pitt. 
"I was hoping Notre Dame would win," says Blackledge, who must face Pitt on Nov. 26. "Regardless, 1 was expecting a tough game with Notre Dame. Maybe we can catch them, coming down offa high." 
Then again, that could just be a passing fancy -Penn State has had plenty of those this season -thanks to Blackledge. 
---·· 

r 
--~-~-~---------~ -----~-~--~~---­
The Irish Extra -Penn State Friday, November 12, 1982-page 14 
Notre Dame vs.Penn State 

j. 

--~---~-----------~~---­
----------~--------~------------~·----------------------------------------~ 
······································,···········~······························ 
mAIDS opens 
D 
he mirror does not create a The maids have ample oppor­perfect image. It distorts, tunity to develop a fantasy life sin~;,e obscures, and confuses. A mirror their mistress frequently leave them shows what we are "maid" to be. alone in the house. They have 
At least that is what the ND/SMC evolved a complex ritual which has Theater Department's production of never been completed, due to inter­The Maids seems to be conveying. ruptions ofone sort or another. The production ofjean Genet's one­
The two maids have alsoact play is destined to become one of developed their relationship as sis­the most controversial shows ofthe ters to quite an extent. It is apparent1982-83 season. The three-woman that they experience an extremelyplay tells the story oftwo sisters who intense bond. They speak for each• serve as chambermaids to awealthy, other, and one sister will often useegocentric woman. 

the word we to refer to herself. As constant companions, lovers, and
Ray Wise 

sisters, the two women banter and insult, possibly only because they know each other well enough to in­flict this type ofverbal pain. Despite 
theatre 
these arguements, it is obvious that 
Although the two sisters are the sisters share a unique and very chambermaids, the audience per­strong bond. ceives them in a different light. The 
This bond is conveyed to the women do not talk like maids. Their audience through the use of mirrorsvocabulary and expressiveness does in the set design and in the staging. It not mesh with the roles that they are becomes apparent that, with muchmade to play. Likewise, Madame, of the dialog taking place around ortheir mistress, appears at times to be in front ofa mirror. much ofthe playmore like a maid than a wealthy aris­is based upon the idea ofa mirorredtocrat. 

image. The sisters mirror each other. The relationship between the two 
Each sister sees herself in the other, maids is bizzare, to say the very least. 
as well as seeing the other in herself. The sisters are constant com­
The mirrors cast their images as panions. They are confidants, lovers, 
maids, but the audience can sense, if and participants in a peculiar ritual 
only through their conversation, of revolt. 
that they are more than mere maids. 
Ritual overpowers the individual. They are made to portray maids. It has a grasp more tenacious than The ND/SMC Theaterdepartment most other entities. Ritual has cap­will present jean Genet's The Maids tivated the maids, thereby creating a tonight, tomorrow night, November fantasy world. However, the women 18, 19 and 20 at 8 p.m. in Washing: 
have found that, as is often the case, ton Hall. Admission is S2.SO for stu­their ritualistic fantasy world has dents, faculty, and staff, and 53 for merged with reality. the general public. 
TOmLIN on the line 
T ily Tomlin has established herself revolve around the later years too; a when the female comedians did Alot ofthe people doing stand-up What do you do to entertain .1...as the premiere comedienne. bobby-soxer from he Fifties and arrive, they played offthis unat­comedy are just telling a string of yourselfafter the show in a place Getting her first national break in Tommy will be a remnant from the tractiveness. They made fun oftheir jokes. One joke after another. That's like Milwaukee? the Laugh In television show, she Discos of the Seventies. bad qualities, being overweight, ug­fine, but Ican't do it. They'll create a has also appeared in motions ly, can't get a guy. Ofcourse that's character around their own selves. The last time I was there, I got all pictures (her debut in Robert Have there been any influential not true in every case. On the other They'll distort things into something dressed up and worked behind the 
Altman'sNashville earned her an perfonners in your life? hand, male comedians were always that just isn't believable anymore. counter at this little diner named 
Academy Award nomination) and aggressive. Ther still are today. joan Rivers did it before she was Dolly's. It was so much fun. There developed a touring stage show. I've always loved Richard (Pryor). Women can't get away with that. married, making jokes about how are a lot ofcollege kids that hang This Saturday night, Tomlin will be He's been a great friend and I love They aren't encouraged. she couldn't get a husband. Then af­around the place but its got its share taking her show,AppearingNightly, his humor. ter she was married, she told jokes ofthe ordinary folk too. The dish­to the O'Laughlin Auditorium at Did this situation ever binder about how tough it was. But I can washer in the back was upstaging 
Saint Mary's. Anticipating the event, Are there any plansfor you two you in your own career? believe joan. She doesn't go too far. me. He was full ofall kinds ofjokes. I we interviewd Tomlin earlier this working together in a film? No. I was just doing what Iwanted love doing things like that. week. to do. I was a performer, not a female 
We've tried so often to get some­performer. Being a woman wasn't a I do some straight talking in my Say, the breaks never came and show to set up a certain situation.
thing together, but we never got the part ofit in my mind. somehowyou weren't in showbusi­
Dennis Chalifout For example, I've always loved the
right script. Actually, my production ness. What doyou supposeyou'd be company is working on something How is it thatyou ever got into smell ofxylene in Biochemistry doing? class. It was like some people are
right now. We hope it'll work out. show business?comedy Everyone is always saying we'll be about gasoline. Well, I'll tell an Probably working behind the ready in February and nothing ever I was always going ro the activities audience about this as straight counter at Dolly's. Tell us a little aboutyourcurrent happens. that the Parks and Recreation talking, but before Iget too distorted tour. department in Detroit was always I'll slip into a character who is a freak They pay good wages there? Have you ever thought ofwriting planning to keep the kids off the about chewing pencil erasers. It's a I always like to return to the stage your own script or directing your street in the summer time. You now, total distortion, but I can set it aside Idoubt it But that's not the reason to get a feel for the people. This way, from myself. 
own film? arts and crafts, shows, that kind of we do what we do, is it? It's our art. Ican take my act on the road and get 
thing. That got me into the spirit. agood idea ofwhere I'm going to go 
No. Something would have to be Then, when I was in college as a pre­with it. I also get letters from fans 
very dear to me to put all that work med, I was in zoology class and a around the country asking when I'll 
into it. Directing a project takes an girlfriend of mine asked me if I be in their area or if I'll ever play a 
awful lot ofwork. Right now, 1 really wanted to come along to try out for a certain city. Well, currently I'm enjoy being a producer. I like to be bit part in The Mad Woman of doing a couple shows in Milwaukee. 
on the creative part ofa project at Cbaillot. That stirred me. I ended upI've got some friends in the area who 
the very beginning. That's very getting the part ofthis woman who wanted me to come. I'd also gotten a 
exciting to me. improvises her way down a lot ofletters from the South Bend 
staircase. I loved it. I did something area asking me to play there, so as 
How do you see the role of different every night. The cast long as I was in the area, I thought I'd 
women in general in comedy would come out at intermission and drop by. 
today? sit in the audience just to see what The show will be built around 
I'd do. many ofthe characters I've 
It's very exciting. There has been 
developed throughout the years. 
an incredible increase in just the last Your brand ofcomedy bas a Partly, it'll involve many characters 
few years. I guess women are start­uniqueflair to it. Do youfind that I've actually known throughout my 
ing to come into their own in all its easier to do the characters rather life. People I knew as a young girl; 
areas. For a long time, being funny than a straight sort ofstand-upaunts, uncles, my mother and father. 
was not considered a desirable trait routine? 
I'll be doing some things that in women. It was unattractive. And 

I 
i 
l 
The Observer Features Section 
Friday, November 12, 1982 -page 16 
Bush music sttikes QgQin 
O
n a bleak and drearv semi­song ended in a blinding tlash of winter's eve, a flame •gnlted m tastefully distorted guitar, the
~· Jim&Tim Keyes 
St. Mary's O'l.aughlin auditorium. audience exploded. It seemed as if Rythmic Union, five midwestern we were all a little warped that fate­musical anglers musicians with a penchant for pagan ful night. 
percussion, took the stage Wednes­During the next tune, Tigger day night amidst a rhinocerou~-like molested his Indian tabla drums un­roar from the crowd. The band in­til the audience began to see Hindu, 
cludes Robert Chappell. who plays then the other members ofthe band keyboards and percussion. and also joined the fun with solos on guitar, wrote most ofthe songs, Tigger Ben­flute, and grand piano. The flautist ford, one ofthe most impressive was, at this point, beginning to ac­drummers we've ever seen, Chari cent her suede leather boots, which Hanes, who plays a wide assortment shone like brown diamonds on the offlutes, Jerome Cheatman, who now-smoking stage. (The bassist was plays bass and should be a dance in­still incredibly well-dressed.) structor, and Ken Hays on guitars. Things got faster and hotter and We ourselves came dripping from louder and more exciting until most the bowels ofa wet Indiana evening, ofthe crowd began to shiver uncon­trading our winning smiles for com­trollahly. plimentary press boxes. Once we The fourth song wa.~ an im­were seated, (ever notice that provised percussion duet between reviewers spend most of their lives Tigger and Chappell, featuring a sitting in the dark?), the house lights huge assortment of"things tit for dimmed and the show began. Let me banging on," including cake pans, clearly state, first ofall, that T.P. and jello molds, and the tloor. Speaking myself are fishermen and not of percussion, these guys were ob­reviewers. In our commonly viously responsible for a series of ignored and reviled opinion. the hubcap t thefts. since many oftheir music and stage presentation were gongs had the telltale Chrysler first rate although the audience was stamp. The percussion duet, which somewhere in the neighborhood of was probablyfrom Nairobi, left most 605th rate. Really now, the band was of us wishing we had brought a Na­personable and the music was acces­tional Geographic special to put it sible and well performed. In fact, the to. Neither drummer was well­concert was great fun, and more dressed, hut that seemed under­people should have attended. Speak­standable since their playing ing ofattendance, the crowd reminded us of naked bush women. seemed to consist ofseveral nuns We discovered that the onstage and their friends. And now for the motorcycle ramp was actually a tlve review. foot long African xylophone ­
In the first place. the spotlights more bush music. were obviously controlled by a We highly recommend bu~h heavy drug user. or perhaps the light music to all you gentle readers, espe­technician was merely an innovator cially those trying to lose weight or -what else would you call a man gain rvthm. who spotlights the drummt"r during After the tirst set, the general con­every !lute solo? sensus among our distinguished 
Bv the time we t1nished reviewing seatmates from music appreciation the spotlight, the band was alrt·ady class was that, ·'They play good kicking in the second song, "Warped music h>r a documentary on the hor­Log1c," which featured the excep­rors of VietNam or the birth rate of tionally well-drt:s~ed ba~;,ist. dolphins... l"nfortunately, these Meanwhile, the S.\1C sound system. lovely and charitable hmnan beings never too good in the tlrst place. left during mtermis.~ion, and so did seemed to have trouble digesting the nuns. Hut those of us who the band's sound, at.least il often remained were excited! For inter­sounded as if it was vomiting the mission fun we visited a "facility" musical precision. Still. when the and waved goodbye to the nuns. 

lY.Te knew we would run into dif­
W ficulties, but that they would be so serious . .. we couldn't im­agine. We tried to think the un­thinkable, but our imaginations were notfertile enough. We have been walking on a brink between two abysses, and we have still not 
fallen down, but its getting very, very nervous now. People have lost 
Dennis Chalifout 
movie review 
their lives. IfI beliet•ed in the Devil, I would say that the Devil was right here, and is still right here. ButI h11ve no choice, I have to do this work. !live my life orI end my life u·ith thisproject. 
-Werner Herzog 
So is the Burden ofDreams, \\ hich also happens to be the title of the Lt:s Blank documemarv on the m.tking of Werner Herzog'sFitzcar­raldo, from which this quote wa.~ culled. :'~/either ofthe!'>e films is pbtvin~ in South Bend at the mo­ment. but they are all too important to ignore for the sake of that insig-
Film celebrates film 
trans-Andean railroad. As we get fur­mad. the finest films that you are likely to ther into the film. we catch a glimpse The "folly" ofwhich I am speaking tlnd anywhere at the moment. of the remnants ofthis particular (which will become the central Fitzcarraldo is the story ofa man failure. A man in a porter's uniform metaphor of the film), is a plan to 
nificant fact. They represent two of 
• with a dream. He is Brian Sweeney stands next to a locomotive resting navigate a ~teamship up-river. then Fitzgerald (Klaus Kinski), the on a few yards of track in the middle haul it over an incline to another "conquistador ofthe useless'" who ofa wild Amazon jungle. He has river a couple of hundred feet away. must somehow make a fortune so r .tised an entire family since the last Thus, a couple of hundred acres of 
that he may build an Opera House in time he has seen Fitzcarraldo. This is rubber trees will be available for cul­the middle ofthe Amazon jungle and yet another incredible filmic image tivation. The image ofa twenty ton have Caruso sing at the grand that manages to get to the heart of steamship being hauled up the side 
opening. fitzcarraldo's follies. They are not ofa mountain by means of ropes, harmless, they affect people and pulleys, and a tribe oflocal savages 
The tilm opens with Fitzcarraldo they affect them deeply. Grande who think the boat is a god, is one(as he is known hy the natives who Otelo, a South American character which cannot be expressed in 
are unable to pronounce his real 
actor is superb as the stationmaster. words. It has to be seen to bename) and his tlnancier Molly He brings the perfect amount of believed. By this time, Herzog has(played by the ever-beautiful comic pathos to his character to al­somehow gotten us on the edge ofClaudia Cardinale) travelling 1,200 low us to feel somt· pity for him but our seats. Success ha.~ become verymiles down the Amazon in a small to also recognize that this folly has important to us.
motorboat and rowing the last mile 
become his life. To him, Fitzcarraldo 
or so with one oar in order to hear 
is a god. Herzog rules an audience with a the Great Caruso sing in Verdi'sE,-­
For the tirst hour ofthe filin, salvo ofstartling images. Each one is nani. The audience is allowed to 
Fitzcarraldo is a difticult man to un­designed to put place us in greatershare in the spectacle of the opera derstand. However. once we in fact awe of the human adventure, yetfor a few minutes, but it is the spec­
actually join him on one of his constantly caution us with almost tacle of Fitzcarraldo's delight that 
follies, Herzog seems to have subliminally ironic juxtaposition.steals the scene. It's all a pretty 
gradually and subversively con­But mo~tly, the reason this film dynamic way to display a character's 
vinced us that this plan (though no ha.~ received so much press (not that love for the opera. 
different from the rest) is a good one it doesn't deserve every ounce ofit In time, we learn ofthe many ways and will succeed. By the middle of on its own merits) is a documentary 
in which Fitzcarraldo ha.~ attempted the tiim, the audicnce will be on the making ofFitzcarraldo by Les to make his fortune. One such surprised to tlnd itself rooting for Blank. Burden ojDreams takes a venture involved the building of a the character they once considered s1nular angle a.s l'itzcarraldo. Here 
The second St"t opened with "City 
Car," in which a scrubby looking 
auxilary percussionist in a ratty un­
dershirt joined the band for a drum 
solo. However. the regular members 
got rid ofhim as soon as the solo was 
ended. It's sad how we treat our 
auxilary percussionists like meat. 
"City Car" was followed by 

"Sensible Shoes." At this point. the 
bassist's disco training reared its ug­
ly head and spit as he began a 

warped fertility dance onstage. We 

were excited, and so was the rest of 
the crowd -we know because we 
asked her after the show. The title of 
this composition seemed ap­

propriate as our chemical took ef­
fect and we began to visualize a large 
gold jogging slipper behind the 
~tage amps. 

During the next tune, "October Winds," Chari had serious problems when her flute got stuck in her gyp­sey sash twice. Fortunately, she recovered quickly by pretending that she had just been drying offthe mouthpiece. Adolphin image began to emerge during this song and, in fact, much ofthe audience began to casi fearful glance~ backstage where we all expected to seeJacques Cous­teau materialize. 
The fat. the old, the repugnant. 
and the Wt"ak ofspirit all left when 
Robert explained that the next song 
was an hours-long, 600 year old 
African percussion tune called "The 
Song of Busonga." "Back to the 
hush," said brother Tim rather 

.tstutely. though mv reply was lost in 
:ht" ensuing vegeuhle music. Tigger 
wore his bongo m what this angler considered to be an ohsene manner. but. after all. the nuns were gone. 
l"his song dated hack to the same time as <iregonan Chant. but as brother Tim. on ~ roll of.tstutene.;s. remarked. "Yotdl nt"ver hear this in a C.ttholic church." 
\)urmg the tin;tl ~ong we were mnted to dance. and. hcingArts and l.erters, did. L"nfortunatt:ly, so did the spotlight man. 
The encore. entitled. "In the Dust." was a real snake charmer, and in conclusion. I must sav that a tun time wa.s had hy all thost" who at· tended the festivities 
agam is a man placed among the jungles ofSouth America in search of his art. Only thi~ time, the man is Werner Herzog, his art is dnema. and his goal is to make Fitzcarra/do . The documentarv rrught just be the tlnest depiction ofa t11m maker ever made. There seems to be a detlnit.e correlation between the documen­tary. and Fellini's .tutobiographical8 I/2. The rocket in Fellini's t11m becomes Herzog's hauling ofthe ship over the mountain. We are told about the many acrors (Jack Nichol­son, jason Robards. Mick)agger) who were forced to bow out of the production. Yet this is the burden of the tllm maker. w get his vision down on the cellulotd. 
A lot of people are suggesting that Blank's tllm in fact succeeds where Herzog's does not. I can't agree. It's important to rememher that it was the vision ot Fitzcarraldo that put Herzog 111 the Amazon jungle for t)lfee years in the tlrst pla~.:e. The images are -.trictly Herzog. However. while one film attempts to get to the heart of Herzog"s vision. the otherattempts to get to the heart of Herzog. Both tllm!» are 'tunnmg, enlightening, and highlv recom­mended. 
----~-----~~~-~-­
·············································································~· 
The Observer Features Section 
Friday, November 12, 1982 -page 17 
Bringing up fGthet 
D
avid showed me the expensive imported watch he was wearing, one ofthose featured in a full-page ad in theNew Yorker. "It's from a limited edition offive hundred timepieces," he said. "It cost 52,900. I'm graduating in December. My father decided to give me my gift during October break." 
"Your dad must like you a lot," I said. "He must feel good about your finishing Notre Dame." 
"My grades don't entitle me to a millionaire's watch," David said. "Lately, my father's gotten into impulsive spending. My mother says it's his way ofcoping with disappointment in his life." 
Rev. Robert Gtlffin 
letters to a lonely god 
"What's he disappointed about?" I said. "My mother says it's his age. He doesn't feel happy with being fifty-five." 
I felt an understanding ofthe graying father I have never met. I've often seen the gentleman in the bathroom mirror. "I guess your old man's got you worried?" I said sympathetically. 
"He'sa wonderful parent," David said. "He thinks the world ofmy mother. He'd die on the spot for his kids. All of us feel he's not happy. We don't seem able to do or say anything that will cheer him up. He spends a lot of unnecessary money, trying to convince us that he's not a failure as a father." 
"Does he act depressed?" I said. "Does he need a psychiatrist's help?" 
"He's not crazy," David said. "He's not some manic depressive from whom we have to hide razor blades. He's discontented with his life. He's forgotten how to have a good time, if he hasn't had a drink." 
"Is liquor a problem for him?" I asked. "Are you worried about his drinking?" 
"Booze is the way he has oflightening his mood. He comes home from work, grouchy, out ofsorts, generally in a down mood, staring into space a lot. He fixes him­self a couple ofdrinks. For a while, he's like himself again, relaxed and full offun. Eventually, the alcohol wears off. At ten o'clock, he's back to staring into space." 
"Is his business okay?" I said. "Do you think he's hap­py with his marriage?" 
"My father is a highly successful lawyer with a wife who adores him," David said. "My mother says he's afraid ofgrowing old." 
"Is his health okay?" I said. "Does he have problems keeping well?" 
"I think he eats too much," David said. "He would be wise to cut down on the drinking. Every Sunday, as he's warming up for dinner with a Manhattan, he announces a different program for self-improvement. He's going to jogevery day. He's going to get a membership in a book club. He's going to study French and go to Europe, and he wants my mother studying languages, too. He's going 
In tomorrow.•. 
to make a retreat with theJesuits. He's going with my mother to a marriage encounter. By Monday morning, he no longer wants to talk about it, and he gets upset if you mention it." 
David paused for a moment, and then asked his ques­tion: "What would you do if he were your father?" "I would love him a lot," I said. "I'd be very patient, and I'd let him see how much I like his gift. 
"What use is a watch I'll have to keep in a safety deposit box? I think I should tell him ho~ overdid the kindness. He's living out a dream fantasy. He gave me the watch he would like to own himself." 
"Ask your mother how he'd feel if you gave it back. If he knows what he's doing and can afford what he's spending, it would be thoughtful ofyou to let him have his fun. You should be careful about maldng him feel sil­ly. Anyway, he could have spent more ifhe had bought you a car." 
"I have my car, which I paid for myself," David said. "I hate to encourage him with phony gratitude." 
"Remember, he meant to give you bread, and not a stone," I said, turning Biblical. "To your father's genera­tion, a man got his watch when he came ofage, fine enough to carry with him for the rest ofhis life. You shouldn't feel guilty because he gave you the best." 
"It'shis guilt that worries me," David said. "He feels as guilty as hell zbout something; that's why he's depressed. Maybe he thinks he was away too much. Maybe it bothers him because his family is so large. Maybe he fet>ls bad because he never talked to us about the things he thought we should know. I'd like to invite him to lay h1s cards on the table, so that we could tell him he has nothing to apologize for." 
"David," I said, "do you love your father?" "He's the person I admire most," David said. "I couldn't love him more." 
"Then stop trying to help him," I said. "Middle-age is a mood, as adolescence was a mood, you wanted to live through without interference. When you worry about your father, he feels it, and he worries all the more." 
"It seems selfish not to let him see how much I care," David said. 
"He knows how much you care," I answered. "He doesn't want you watching him slow down. Acertain sadness comes with being middle-age. You don't need an audience checking your emotions with a Geiger counter." 
"What ifhe keeps getting more and more depressed?" said David. 
"Depression at fifty-five isn't a terminal illness. With good health, prosperity, and children understanding enough not to play bringing up father, your old man, sooner o t r later, should get his act together. In the meanwhile, handing out presents is not bad therapy. I go shopping myself, when I'm feeling down. I'm only two years senior to your father." 
"Really," David said, "I thought you were older." 
Some seniors, when you try helping them, leave you feeling you should wipe yourself up with bathroom tissue. 

,..,...... 

•THEATRE 

Where love is hate, hate is love, good is bad, bad is good, there 
reigns perversity, and the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre Depart­
ment's production ofJean Genet's The Maids. The story ofthe two 
maids and their mistress is more than just a traditional exposition of 
plot. Genet has weaved a complex drama that in effect, overturns 
conventional thought. This one-act, written by Genet, a french self­
professed thief and homosexual, is the second presentation in the 
department's Mainstage season. It will be performed tonight, tomor­
row and next Thursday, Friday and Saturday evenings at 8 p.m. in 
Washington Hall. Tickets are $3 general admission, 52.50 for stu­
dents, senior citizens and staff. Tonight there will be a two-for-one 
ticket price. 
•DANCE 

The Abiogenesis Dance Collective will present their fall concert tomorrow evening at 8 p.m. and Sunday at 1:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Pieces to be performed include an improvisational work entitled, "Forms," a dance based on the imitation ofshapes through body sculpture, "Bugs I," a continuation ofa dance in which male dancers transform athletic movement into insect-like configura­tions. "New York, New York," complete with Frank Sinatra soundtrack, is a glitzy show number equipped with a chorus line. The finale, "An American Dream," is a critical look at American life and modern motifs. 
•ART 

Tonight at 8 p.m. in the Bendix Theatre ofthe Century Center Ivan 
Karp, Director ofO.K. Harris Gallery in New York City will speak on 
"Prevailing Temperaments in the Visual Arts." This lecture is 
cosponsored by the Art Center, the Snite Museum ofArt, the Notre 
Dame Art Department and the Art Department at Andrews Univer­
sity. Admission is S2. 
•MUSIC 

The strains ofinstrumental and vocal music will be heard this 
weekend throughout the South Bend area. In the Little Theatre in 
Moreau Hall at Saint Mary's, the Saint Mary's Wind Ensemble will 
play a concert under the direction ofDorothy Bryant. Itwill begin at 
Sp.m. 
At Indiana University at South Bend, two concerts, one instrumen­
tal and the other vocal, will commence tonight and tomorrow eve­
ning, respectively, at 8:15p.m. The Southold Symphonic Wind Band conducted by Michael). Esselstrom, will perform compositions by Ralph Vaughan Williams, Wagner, Tartini,J.S. Bach, Holst, Spears and Fillmore. The concert will take place in the Northside Auditorium. Admission is S2. 
Soprano Bernadine Oliphint, professor of music at !USB, will sing selections from the works ofG. F. Handel, Paul Nordof, Herbert Howells, Joseph Marx, Hugo Wolf, Seymour Barab and Benjamin Britten. Ms. Oliphinr will be accompanied by Carol Stone, head of the piano department at Tennessee State University in Nashville, and Judith Thomas, adjunct faculty member in the IUSB Division of Music, on flute. It will take place in the Northside Recital Hall. 
Atribute to Haydn and Stravinsky will be the theme ofthe Elkhart 
County Symphony Association's concert at 3:30p.m. Sunday at Con­
cord Performing Arts Center. The Orchestra under the Dr. Michael 
bselstrom will perform Haydn's Symphony No. 104 in D Major, 
Stravinsky's "Firebird Suite," and Grieg's "Peer Gynt Suite No. 1." A 
special feature will be "A Visit With FranzJoseph Haydn" by Dr. 
Robert W. Demaree, Jr., who will don 18th century costume to 
present the monologue. Tickets are 115 for adults and S3 for students 
and senior citizens. For more information, cali the Symphony office 
at 293-1087. 
•MOVIES 

Turning from the french and italian-dominated film circles, Con­tract, a polish polyphonic comedy directed by Krzystof Zanussi is the newest presentation in The Friday Night Film Series. Inspired by but disliking the idea of Robert Altman's The Wedding, Zanussi paints a prophetic vision ofa deteriorating society using the context ofa two-day polish wedding celebration among the haute bour­geoise. It begins at 7:30 p.m. in Annenberg Auditorium and admis­sion is S2. 
On the Waterfront is the weekend offering in the Engineering Auditorium. In 1954 it swept the Academy Awards, running away with 8 ofthem, including Best Actor, Best Actress and Best Movie. Starring Marlon Brando. Eva Marie Saint, Rod Steiger and Karl Mal­den, it is a classic story ofa young dock worker caught between the forces of his union and underworld crime figures. It contains the famous scene where Brando says to Steiger, "I could have been a contender." Showtime is 7, 9 and II p.m. 
•NAZZ The new~t singing and dancing ensemble on campus, Shenanigans, will be performing at the N azz tonight from 9 to II 
p.m. The interest in this group was evidenced earlier this semester when auditions were held. Let's continue the support ofthese su­perb entertainers. Tomorrow at 9 p.m. "Shapeshifter II", a dramatic reading from The Survival will be presented by David Picrson­Garrick. At 9:.30, The Belletones, an all female barbershop quartet will oe singing the type ofsongs made famous by such movies as The 
Music Man. 
§I& II&&&&I t g; w:m 
• 

The Observer will accept classifieds Mon· day through Fnday. 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. However. classifieds to appear tn the next issue must be recetved by 3 p.m. the bus1ness day pnor to 1nsert1on All classtfleds must be prepa1d
Classifieds e1ther in person orthrough the mat!. Friday, November 12, 1982 -page 18 
NEED RIDE TO WASHINGTON D.C. OR I need 2 GAs for Penn State. Call 289-Need Penn St. stud or GAs. Call Mark EEFER, The last cymbollc partyoftheyur._ be NORTHERN VA. OVER THANKSGIV­9304 1796 HAVE A WONDERFUL, NUTTY-thera. 
ING BREAK CALL 1478 AFTER 11: 30 MARVELOUS 20TH BIRTHDAY PM. I will pay anything for Penn St Ga's or Stu FOR SALE, 2 PENN STATE GA's SEC LOVE, PETER Prepare tor the return of Miscellaneous at Tix call Tom 8539 35 NO OFFERS UNDER $50 CALL TheNazz!!! Surplus jeeps, cars and trucks available. LISTEN TO THE MID MORNING BREAK 
NOTICES 

HELP: need nde over Thanksgiving break 1106 Many sell lor under $200 Call 312-742­
to Pittsburgh or to 1-80 exits 22-NEED 2 PENN STATE STUDENT TIX ON WSND AM64 EVERY MONDAY Welcome MIChele ana Nancy and Ray! 1143, ext 7316 tor Information on how to PHIL 1764 AND FRIDAY MORNING FROM 10AM Hey Ted 
40(preferably No 39). Will share all ex­I need Penn State t1x. Mtke x234-5556. purchase. penses and drivtng. Call Warren at 1167. T011AM What do you thtnk of ND now? Thanks! Need Penn student tix. Call John x3554 UNTOLD RICHES AWAIT ANYONE StgnedJ& M TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
WILLING TO PART WITH PENN STATE I NEED 3 PENN STATE GAs DAD and 2 WAITTRESS ONE NIGHT A WEEK. NEED 1,2,0R 3 GA TIX FOR PENN ST GA S. CALL 1262 RICH FRIENDS Gotng to MILWAUKEE (or area) for TYPING. Fast. accurate. reasonable 
CALL FRANCESCO'S 277-6155 CALL JIM 277-2736 Thanksgivtng? We are chartering a rates. Close to campus. lYNN SAYLOR 
2 PENN STATE STUDENT TIX FOR HELP!!! I NEED ONE JUST ONE PENN second bus Only $16 75 round trip! Call 233-3423. 
WANTED: used refrig tor dormroom call Hi! SALE-BEST OFFER CALL DAVE AT ST TICKET CALL 1269 AND ASK FOR John 1745 soon! JoeX3471 I need 2 Penn St. G.A ·s real bad bad bad 8371. M. HAVE YOU READ THE MOST FAMOUS 
bad bad bad bad I Please call Pat at 8652 Thank you, St. Jude. for your tnterces­WALL ON THIS CAMPUS? 
NEED A RIDE TO PA FOR THANKSGIV­Thank you. NEED 4 PENN ST GAS CALL STEVE -JUNIOR CLASS DATE NIGHT sion My prayers have been answered DO YOU NEED A HAIRCUT BEFORE Bye! 1855 AS.
ING EXIT 100N 1-80 CALL STAN 8317 JUNIOR CLASS DATE NIGHT!­YOU ARE DEPORTED? DOES YOUR MOTHER DANCE ON 
NEED RIDE TO COLUMBUS, OHIO Bad? I need tickets so bad that it hurts! Need 2 PENN STATE GAs. Please call JUNIOR CLASS DATE NIGHT DINNER The Exorctst!!! TABLES IN A COCKTAIL LOUNGE? 
Two nders need ride for Thanksgiving, Please call Jim at 8641 if you can help Kevtn at 277-1705. & MOVIE ONLY 10.001 IF YOU ANSWERED YES TO ANY ONE 
share usual. Call larry at x1 180. relieve my pa1n. Thanks TO THE GAVIGANS, OR MORE OF THESE QUESTIONS 
DE SPERA TEL Y NEED 2 STUDENT OR -ASK A FRIEND TO JUNIOR DATE WELCOME TO OUR BEAUTIFUL CALL TODAY FOR AN APPOINTMENT: 
NEED RIDERS TO CHARLOTTE, N.C. PLEASE HELP! NEED PENN ST STU­GA TIX TO PENN STATE MONEY IS NO NIGHT!-CAMPUS! ALSO, THANK YOU VERY GUYS $4, GIRLS $6 
I am leaving Tuesday lor Thanksgiving. DENT TIX! CALL MAGGIE x3611 OBJECT CALL JOHN AT 8250 NOV 17&18 MUCH FOR A WONDERFUL E T VENING MICHOLE AT 7850 
call Mike at 6934 IN ALLENTOWN WE REALLY HAD A 
FOR SALE: At least 6 Penn State GAs. DADS AN ADMIRAL AND PROMISES JELLYBEAN LOT OF YUCKS. HAVE A REALLY Need nders to NJ tor Thanksgiving break Call Dave 3673 TO SEND ME TO LEBANON IF I DON'T Although we may be far apart your heart GOOD WEEKEND WE HOPE TO SEE Call George 6809. GET TWO PENN STATE GA'S DONT and soul are here, My body aches tor you YOU 
NEED MANY PENN ST GA'S WILL PAY KNOW LEBANESE SO CALL BOB AT to be near. LOVE. DANA AND GREG (AND DAN
LOST/FOUND 

I need a nde to INDIANAPOLIS OR BIG BUCKS 232-4731 Y.B.B.M. BUT HE ALREADY SENT A THANK YOlJ TERRE HAUTE lor THANKSGIVING I call NOTE) 8385, Tim. WILL SELLSOUL OR OTHER NEED PENN STATE GAS CALL JEFF BOSTON CLUB TAILGATER SAT. PS GO N.D KILL THOSE PENNSYL­
glasses brown case intials D.O.C. call VALUABLES FOR 2 TICS CALL GREENFIELD ACROSS FROM SENIOR VANIANS!
1225 
Bnan 1044 reward offered 

Need ride to Harrisburg, Reading. or PHIL277-0249 BAR BEGINS AT NOON. LOOK FOR 
Philadelphia Pa. tor Thanksgiving Can NEED STUDENT OR GA PENN STATE FLAG OR SIGN. HERES TO THE SENIOR BARITONES! FOUND: Green case of cassatt tapes 
leave Friday Nov. 19. Call John at 1612. WILL TRADE 1 PENN ST STU FOR TIX. MIKE-3571. MARIE "MAZIE' KISSEL-Don't let her found on New York Metro bus that went PENN ST GA KELLY 277-2940 555 JIM GIBLIN RETURNS.MEMORIAL goddess-like appearance fool you. She's from New York to South Bend on Sunday, REALLY NEED RIDE TO CENTRAL Need tour(4) GA tickets tor Penn State TAILGATER SATURDAY NOON one wtld party woman. It must be some­Oct. 31. Call Btll6718. NEW YORK (ALBANY. UTICA, NEED MANY PENN ST GA'S WILL PAY game. Please call Mtke at 8728. SATURDAY BOSTON CLUB lhtng she picked up '" Japan wtth the 
SYRACUSE FOR XMAS BREAK---WILL $60-$100 PER PAIR CALL287-3148 Spearmint Schnapps TOILET PAPER WAR!! 
SHARE USUAL ---CALL CHRIS AT 8573 I NEED 4 USC GAs CALL BRENDAN BILLY FARRELL RETURNS FROM THE GRETCHEN MATTHEWS-Don't I lost a hat while greeting the team at the 
OR 3510ANYTIME NEED MONEY? SELL ME YOUR STU­3207 HEIGHTS OF DORCHESTER SEE HIM believe all the weird things people yell main c~rcle. It was a plaid Irish cap, of high 
DENT TICKETS TO THE PENN STATE AT THE BOSTON CLUB TAILGATER about her dunng inspection. Only 80 per­sentiental value. Please call 277-1809 if 
RIDE NEEDED TO NYC FOR XMAS GAME! This is non·taxable income just FOR SALE 1 STU TICKET-$35 288-8402 SATURDAY cent of illS true. Never fear, she'll be back you found it sat night 
BREAK-WILL SHARE USUAL--CALL waiting to be yours! At 3075! Repeat: for another year of abuse. CHRIS AT 8573 OR 3510 ANYTIME. 3075!! PENN ST WEEKEND: WHO WILL BERT JERRY MILLER-Our President tn Browntsh-orange wallet posstbly in the BUFFALO ON, STINKY STANK ON, JIM­charge of Vice, known by some as Super
As of thts date, 11/12/82, I am still looking parking lot of Bndgetes on Saturday night 
I need a ride back to ND after Thanksgiv­HELP! WILL PAY BIG BUCKS FOR tor 2 GA's and 1 student ticket tor PENN MMY THE GREEK SLIME ON, FARRELL Jerry Was th1s the man who thought we KEEP THE MONEY-NO questions 
ing lrom READING, PA or anywhere PENN ST GAs x1738 ST. Please call Jell 1764 HANG ON, AND WHAT BUS WILL dtdn't like each other enough to stay at a asked-I just want the wallet back! NANCY 
close by. It you can help, call leslie 1288 JOHNNY RIDE ON post-rally until 12:30? Who will wear the 4263 
DESPERATELY NEED PENN ST GA FOR SALE: 1 STU PENN TIC x1813 shorts on Saturday morntngs next year? TIXS.PETE 232-1466 OUR BOSS IS OUT OF TOWN FOR THE Whtch foot comes up first in the Hike LOST: GOLD "OPEN CENTER' HEART. 
WEEKEND SO THE "HIT ME YOUR Step?
DESPERATELY NEED PENN STATE· LOTS OF SENTIMENTAL VALUE IF 
WANT TO ESCAPE NO FRIGIDITY? TIX!!! Dad's last chance to see N.D Call CHEAP· SHOT SHOW" WITH YOUR JOE STAUDT -Our illustnous sectiOn FOUND. PLEASE CALL SHARONA 
FOR SALE 
That's nght. Penn St. game is gotng to be 2904 Wtlling to pay$$$$ FAVORITE D.J.'S REGGIE AND G. W. leader. It was only rumor that we wanted X4265. THANKS real cold. So while you snuggle up to your KOOL MAY RE· TURN! BE LISTENING to sw•tch to Euphon~um. How can we for­honey, warm and cozy 1ndoors, my 3 RICHEST ALUMNI EVER NEEDS 3 TO 6400 ON YOUR A.M. RADIO DIAL get the tnfamous burnt popcorn? How LOST: a gray stadium JaCket from the USED BOOKS Bought, Sold. Searched. Irish-fanatic fnends can keep your seats GAS-CALL CHRIS AT 3849 FRIDAY NIGHT! CALL IN AND TAKE A about the dramatic letter readings? dimng hall II you have taken or seen it, 
ERASMUS BOOKS Tues-Sun, 12-6 warm at ND stadtum. Not only that, they'll CHEAPSHOT AT SOMEONE YOU Thanks for an unforgettable marchutg please call 8024. 1027 E. Wayne. One Block South of line your pockets w1th some btg-ttme DO YOU HAVE VERY LITTLE MONEY DISLIKE. CALL 9-239-6400 OR 9-239-season!! The Schnapps will never be the Eddy-Jefferson IntersectiOn cash. And stnce my tnends are leprac­AND A BURNING NEED FOR TWO 7425 WITH YOUR REQUESTS! same wtthout you. Just remember FOUND One green notebook tor Com­
hauns it would be against the luck of the PENN ST GAS ? CALL 3244 AND Barnone Herpes stays with you forevert FOR SALE: GUild D-35 Acousttc GUitar: DEMAND YOUR DISCOUNT 50 YARD
parative Govt. It it is yours please call lnsh not to partake in th1s proposition ANNOUNCING BELATED HUMP love. Who Elso? Andy at 8692 or 8697. 
excellent cond Also, hard shell case. Call HELP! NEED 3 STUDENT TIXI CALL LINE RIGHT-NEXT-TO-HESBURGH TIX NIGHT illl COMING FRIDAY TO A 
John 272-01 12 or 1-463-7203 evenings. DIANEAT79831 NOW CAVANAUGH NEAR YOU. BEvERages Dear Noreen lost: Key ring wtth three keys 
will be served. Two weeks have passed, and I am "'I rove NY." with ra1nbow 
TAKAMINE Model F-400 12 Stnng Penn St. Ttx, student or GA Call John DESPERATE! I!! Tnp all set ticket deal yours at last lost in north quad 
GUitar. Rosewood Body.ltke New Condi­1707 tell through. NEED 2 USC t1x Make the na­Semor EXTRAVAGANZA! Semors be a love George . Beaver , Chris and the two please call larry x8633 
tion Wtth Hard Case $275 call 272-...... ..... .. tional debt look small, call lou at part of THE SECOND ANNUAL BLOCK p·s 3028 Need 4 PENN STATE GAs for family 66713!!!1! PARTY, with BEvERages, food, and LOST! 1 orange-brown glass case wtth a 
reunion at N.D. (small family) call mustc!!! Look for the sail flytng through the froth pa1r of glasses instde: lost last Thursday. 
Zenith 19' ColorTV$150.00289-7346 Caspar 2n-3276 FOR SALE Penn stu ltc $50.Mttch 3184 on GREEN-FELD. When the WINDSUR­Please call Joame at 2244 
ROTTIN, FERS wtpout. 11 must be 1n a hearty For Sale 1 Student Ticket $45 Call Joe PLEASE HELPI! Desperately need 1 or 2 HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO A ROOMMATE BREW!!!!!!I!!!!See all there. LOST DIGITAL WATCH IN STEPAN 
x2275 Penn State student or GAs. Willing to pay WHO PUTS HER EARS BEHIND HER WIND. CENTER TUES NIGHT 11/9 PLEASE 
BIG BUCK$! Call277-2012. Ask for Mtke. HAIR I HAVE A PISSA OF A 21 STI CALL FRANK AT 277-2736. THANKS! LOVE, ANNE FOREIGN STUDY TRIVIA QUIZ N0.2:
PERSONALS 
What kmd of fine does one get lor dnw~g LOST: silver Cross pen at the Huddle on 
I need student & GA Tic for Penn call Pete RUB-A-DUB whtle IntoxiCated, driving with no hands 11/8 at 1 0:30am. Please call Warren at 
1608 RUB-A-DUB and havtng too many passengers--on a 1167. 
TICKETS 

RUB-A-DUB btcycle? Chtcago clergy need Penn Stae tickets. The outlet IS coming LOST: BULL 
John at 1580. Dear sister and Madame, Mtchigan...dead I hope you collective pellets of rabbit Need 2 GAtix Penn After we "play it to the hilt,· BEWARE!!!
tor State game we won't Pitt...dead 
dung realize that Bevo will be found and Parents want to see first ND game. NEED 6 GA's AND 1 STUD TIX. FOR guzzle tine wine. No waltzing tor us No, Brezhnev .. dead you will suffer the consequences. Call 
Please call Nancy 4449 SMC PENN ST. DAVE 277-0955 never! It will be kahlua and vodka only 1n 8765 and be penitent before your fated the ftnest tea (pronounced tay) set. JUST WHEN YOU THOUGHT IT WAS The IBB of St.Ed·s welcomes back B.F. doom occurs. What was that? You satd you wanted to Watch PENN STATE on TV. I need 3or4 We will dream of the d SAFE TO EAT IN THE NORTH DINING (for the weekend at least). The Bah&en 
Stgned, 

become tnstantly rich? Then buddy, I'm GA lix. Will pay $40 each. Call 272-9248 gcr a maid. HALL boy IS heer to put down some bews at The legitimate your ticket, as long as y'all have two tor ask tor John. Break a leg. kids. Carbies, and have a wteked good time ­
Owner me. Two Penn st. GA's, that is, and you The older sister THE TUMULTUOUS TRUMPETS WILL Yeeeah!!!! know my mass1ve mounds of money will I NEED PENN STATE STUDENT TIX. SOUND AGAIN. be more than enough to make you wish to CALL ME AT 1722. ALOHA St. Ed's Centennial Week Novem-St. Edward·s Hall turns 100 What a wnd sell them to you. Call Extremely Well To ber 13-21 BE THERE ..FOR THE ROAST OF THE scene Parttes, receptions, talent, and the Do Cindy Lou ----Lou at 2948 Need 2 Penn State tix, student or GA. Call TALK IT UPIIIIIII LION!I!! SYR most coveted by ND/SMC womfm.
FOR RENT 


Jack, 1164. Help-my Mom IS bringing in Jtm Morrison TODAY AT LASTIII MONTY PYTHON ST. EDWARD'S HALL. t 882 -11182. and two fnends from the Afncan Continent Need two tickets tor Penn St. tor in-laws SENIOR CLASS BLOCK PARTY Student Houstng -Clean -Sate. to see the Penn St. game. Would you hap­Call 232-0063 after 5 P.M. 3:30-6:30 IN THE ACC MONTY PYTHON On this day, 22 years ago, JOHN NIESE $100/mo. 291-1405. pen COME MEET THE NE graced the world with his presence 
Need Penn St. GAs. Chris-1730 NEIGHBORHOOD AND NOW FOR SOMETHING COM­Thank you Mrs. Niese, tor a job wet; done! NEED PENN ST. TIX CALL MIKE 287-FOOD DRINK LIVE MUSIC GUEST PLETELY DIFFERENT Have a good one John! 4225 NEED 3 STU TIX FOR PENN ST. CALL CELEBS FUN TIMES KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS HALL 
JOHN 8362. THIS IS YOUR LAST WARNINGI PARTY WITH FLANNER 11B AND NEED 2 PENN STATE GAS CALL x1 610 NOV. 12 at 7,9, 11 CELEBRATE OUR VICTORY OVER ASK FOR RICH NEED1 STUDENTORGAPENNSTATE VOLUNTEER OPPORTUNITY FOR NOV.13at8,10,12mid. PENN STATE. THE COMMONER WILL 
TICKET CALL LARRY-283-1047. CHRISTMAS BREAK: YOUNG MEN COST: 1.00 MEMBERS FREE BE THE SIGHT OF MANY HOSEJ<)BS NEED RIDE TO NYC/ L1 AREA FOR WANTED DESPERATELY:! PENN ST. NEEDED TO SPEND A WEEK IN RURAL SATURDAY NIGHT SO WE SUGGEST THANKSGIVING---CAN LEAVE TUES STUD OR GA. CALL WILL282-1026 COLORADO LODGE REUNION!! Need APPALACHIA AND THE SOUTH Joan B. Just a smile would make my day. YOU BE THERE OR YOU WILL BE NOV23RD CALL JOHN at351 0 OR 8573 several Penn st. tix, GA's too. Paul 289-WORKING WITH THE GLENMARY An Admirer. MASSIVELY DISAPPOINTED. 
FELLOW CALIFORNIANS I NEED All 5975 HOME MISSIONERS. CONTACT VSO Need Penn State tix!! Cal1287-3538. OF YOUR N.D. U.S.C. FOOTBALL TICK­(239-5293) for information. CARRIE on my wayward SUNDRY GO-MAN....When is the rendezvous???­ETS WILL PAY ANY REASONABLE NEED PENN GA'S & STUDENT TIX FOR Need nde to Reading, Harrisburg or Phllly 
AMOUNT OF MONEY CALL DAN AT FAMILY-CALL MOLLY OR KATHY AT JUNIOR CLASS PRE-l'ENN FES. ·The Blact< Slip lor Thanksgiving break. Can leave Friday, 8085. TIVITIES
1858 Dan Kelly Nov 19. Call Jon 1612. Noon-3:15 at Greenfield Is that really your picture in the dog book? WELCOME BACK SIS AND BRO-IN­Want to be rich and famous, or at least HELP!I I NEED 2 PENN ST. STUD TIX Beverages and FREE burgers! Be there .. Seniors-check it out and then abuse him. LAW AND TO KELLY, PATTY, JIMMY RIDE NEEDED TO CLEVELAND WED 
nch? I need 10 Penn State ttckets and wtll $$$CALL ED 7838 AND TIMMY I'M GLAD YOU COULD 24TH CALL MARTY 277-4563. 
pay much$$$ for them, even more tor 4 or MMy Dearest Julie (yes thats Julie MAKE IT UP THIS YEAR: HOPEFULLY 
more together. Call Paul at 1077. need 8 stud or ga. will pay bucks call Desperately need 2 GA's for the Penn St. Kanak) IT WILL BE AS MUCH FUN AS LAST Need ride to SPRINGFIELD ll tor 7954 Game. I will pay btg bucks. Call Anne I may not be perfect but I think you now TIME I CAN'T PROMISE A MORE Thanksgiving. Share usual. Call Frank My voluptuous little sister still needs x4366 (SMC) realize disagreetng with me will only EXCITING GAME BUT YOU NEVER 
6718 

PENN ST tix, stud & GA's We're talking Cous1n visittng from Okla wants to see cause you problems. Or tS it tndigenous of KNOW WITH ND. TELL THE KIDS THAT 
BIG$$$ (and no date) JOE 1652 Irish beat PSU. Call3626 it have stu tix to My kind of town, Chtcago is! you to set off fire-alarms in S.M. C. library. I DON'T THINK THERE ARE ANY RIDE NEEDED THANKSGIVING BREAK 
sell How bout that, anyways,MIKE PARTIES THIS WEEKEND SO I HOPE 
D.C. AREA OR No. VA. CALL8332 YOURSELF HEADACHE. Dear "Lois Lane· Laurie, BROUGHT BOOKS
SAVE THE THEY SOME TO ...................,... 
ONE CALL WILL GET YOU TOP DOL­Need 2 or more GA tix to PENN ST Call Racquetball anyone? HELLO MR AND MRS CHIARY STUDY Help! We need 3 rides to St. Louis tor LAR for PENN STATE GA'S. call 272-Maureen 5097 SMC. Big Bucks. "Kiark Kent' Ken Say HI to Dawn LOVE, UNCLE TOMMY Turkey DayI Call5528 SMC 
7152. 
I NEED 2 PENN STUDENT OR GA TICK­HERE WE GO AGAINI Another editon of Throw the Lions to the Christians HeyAngl8, NEEO RIDE TO NYC OR NJ FOR DESPERATELY NEED GA TIX FOR ETS. RICH 331!196'. Tim Neely's Top 20 Time Tunnelts comin· So many men and so Iitle lime Where THANKSGIVING. CAN LEAVE ANY PENN STATE. CALL6803. at ya Sunday night at 6 pm on WSND AM Dan Connors... were you all last mght anyway? Don't 
DAY. KAREN284-5338 

KHELP! I DESPERATELY NEED 2 64. ...on guitar. worry, we won·t tell HIM. Celebrate your PLEASE HELP A STUDENT IN DIRE PENN STATE GAS AND 1 STUDENT Thts week we go back to 1 978, where 19th birthday the only way-commando 10 SPEED BIKE: Come on. we've had our 
NEED OF PENN ST TICKETS CALO TICKET! PLEASE CALL MICHELLE AT you'll hear such splendid lumtnanes John Daegale.•. style! first trace of snow, and there is more to 6843!! as.
DAN AT 8900. one "'eek from Happy birthday come, so you won't be able to use your Barbra and Neil Love your 4-North buddies 
DePau..,,
t>ike any more. Sell it to me!! Please call 

PLEASE HELP! NEED 2 PENN GA NEED 1 STUDENT PENN STATE TIK Donna Summer and nothing is t\athleen at 233-4598 if you have a 1 0 MAURAX2244 FOR FRIEND COMING FROM Ambrosta going to GOOD LUCK TO THE NO FOOTBALL speed in good condition. FLORIDA--CALL JOAN IE AT 2244 Firefall stop him TEAMIII ESP THE SENIORS IN YOUR 
NEED PENN ST GAs BIG TIME! $$$ and at least 16 others who are probably .................................................. LAST HOME GAME.-WE'RE GONNA CALL1627 Desperately need 1 GA or stud. ticket for as good it not better. Q: What sheik donated millions to renew MISS VAl WE LOVE VAl 
Penn State Call Kevin 1441 Desperately Hooster muntctpalities? 3SIIC'S FOR SALE: GIRLS SIZE 9 SUEDE SQUIRE Need Billy Sqwe tickets real need 1 GA or stud. ticket for Penn Stae. THE HIT ME WITH YOUR CHEAP-SHOT A: ElK Art JACKET. Call Marya 1268/7. bad. Anyone with tickets please call $$$$ Call Kevtn 1441 SHOW WILL HOPEFULLY RETURN IN LtsaD. 
David 277 -3823. THE NEXT WEEK OR SO. BE LISTEN­Moose are The System Have a fun weekend at NO! FOR SALE: 2 PENN ST. STUDENT TIX. POPE and Mrs. John Paulil need 2 Penn ING TO WSND ON FRIDAY NIGHTS Take care ol it, Little Tommy. From Sis and Laura $40.Each. Call KENNY 1777. Need Penn State tix. Call Jim at 3342. St. t1x. Call Jamie(232·0550) FROM tt:00-? Bye, Shots Go Italians (I mean Irish!) 

----~·~------·~ 
---~ --~--------~-...... 
~~()~tS=lJ==~==t=·(3~=S===============================F=ri=da=y=,N=o=v=e~m=be=r=1=2=,1=9=8=2==p=a=ge===19
lh The Ohsert•er and Tbe Associ{/ ted Press 
Bannersfor display at halftime of Saturday's game must be approved. This will be done today from 1 to 5 p.m. in the student government offices. Banners must be checked with stadium person­nel before the game, and may be picked up for display at halftime. ­
The ObsenJer. 
Need a Christ.tnas gift for the person who has everything? NFL Films has announced that "Wake Up the Echoes," the 52-minute film chronicling the history of Notre Dame football, will be released on videotape for the upcoming holiday season. It will be available in 1/2-inch VHS and Beta II formats, and can be yours for home use for just 549.95. To order your copy, contact NFL Films at (609) 778-1600, or write them c/o 330 Fellowship Drive, 
Mount Laurel, N.J 08054. -The Observer. 
A Sports Law Forumwill be held this afternoon at 3 in Room 101 at the Law School. Martin Blackman, Esq., Chairman of the Practicing Law Institute Committee on Sports Law, and Martin Silfen, Esq., will address students and faculty. Topics to be discussed will include the status of the NFL players' strike; endorsements and merchandising of athletes; and the effect of cable TV on sports. ­
The Observer. 
.. . Clubs 
continuedfrom page 24 
Irish turned in their finest perfor­mance of the afternoon in a I 5-6 pounding of LaPorte. 
This year's volleyball team returns three outstanding seniors and adds four freshmen to a team already deep in talent. Captain Clark Gibson is a mainstay on the left attacker spot for the Irish with his 32" vertical leaping ability. Ifhe is able to live up to his preseason hype, Gibson should be able to hold most Notre Dame volleyball records by the end of this year. 6'4" Barry Smith anchors the other outside attacker position, while 6'5" Eric Wolfe 
rounds out the trio ofseniors. 
Ofthe four freshmen, 6'4" Ed Abt looks to be the first ready for star­dom. He led his high school team to a 45-1 record last year and has al­ready nailed down the middle at­tacker starting position for this season. Although only 6'1 ", Eloy Ruiz is making his prescence felt with his outstanding leaping ability. Andy Reardon is coming on strong after only nine days on the volleyball court and Geoffery Westrich looks looks to continue the high standard of play that he established last year in Wisconsin. 
John Klebba leads the team of 
blockers that is the primary of­
fensive weapon for the Irish. Kevin 
Hinders joins Klebba as a blocker 
while passing specialist Mark Bas­
sett, back row standout Carlos Aus­
set and Steve Hill round out the 
starters for Notre Dame. 
The team is coached by Notre 
Dame grad Mike Mathias and 1979 
final four competitor Rick Nunez. 
WATER POLO -The water polo team ended a promising fall season on a down note as they were ousted in two games from the Midwest Con­ference Championships. 
Fourth seeded Kentucky beat up on the Irish 15-9 in the first game. Steve Blaha and Tom Austgen both scored three times and Mike Roberts added one in a losing cause. The Irish were able to make a game of it the second night before ending their season in a loss to Principia 19-1 3. Blaha and Roberts led the team with three goals apiece and Austgen chipped in two. 
The freshman team of Blaha and 
Roberts combined to score half of 
the the team's goals in the tourna­
ment. For the year, both Blaha and 
Roberts set new freshman scoring 
records with 25 goals. Team presi­
dent John Smith had 20 goals and 
Tom Austgen scored I 7. 

~---------------------------------------------------­
A turkey shoot sponsored_by NVA and ~upervised by Army ROTC will be held on Nov. 15 and 16. Deadline for signup is today. All equipment provided. No experience necessary. For more information contact NVA at 239-6100. -The Obsen,er. 
Paul Castn1er,who was a back on Knute Rockne's squads of the early 1920's, will be the guest on "Straight Talk," to be broad­cast on WNIT-TV, Channel34 at 7:30 tonight.-The Observer. 
Fellowship ofChristianAthleteswill spon­
sor a fund-raising run-a-thon on Cartier track from 9 to 12 tomorrow morning to benefit St. Marita Primary Day School and to provide for the FCA regional spring retreat.· -The Observer. 
Tony Hunter, Head Coach Gerry Faust and as­
sistant Coaches Jim Johnson and Ron Hudson will be tonight's featured pep rally speakers. The traditional confab will go on tonight at 7 in the Stepan Center. -The Observer. 
J&::::illll::;:;HOCKE y,*;:;~::::Mtit;i::;m 
PRINCE OF WALES CONFERENCE Adams Division 

w L T GF GA Pis. Montreal 11 3 3 80 58 25 Quebec 8 6 2 78 73 18 Boston 7 6 3 53 50 17 Buffalo 7 6 3 67 57 17 Hartford 4 9 2 54 54 10 
Patrick Division NY Islanders 12 5 2 79 53 26 Philadelphia 10 7 1 74 59 21 NY Rangers 7 9 1 64 72 15 
..­
Washington 5 7 3 53 60 13 P1ttsburgh 5 10 2 56 85 12 New Jersey 3 10 6 55 76 12 
CLARENCE CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Smythe Dvlsion 

w L T GF GA Pis Edmonton 7 7 4 85 79 18 Los Angeles 7 6 3 65 62 17 Calgary 7 8 3 82 81 17 Vancouver 7 8 2 59 53 16 W1nn1peg 7 5 1 63 48 15 
Norris Division Minnesota 11 5 1 69 58 23 Ch1cago 8 2 5 68 52 21 St.louis 7 9 1 60 65 15 Toronto 3 7 5 54 63 11 Detro1t 3 11 3 45 81 9 
Yesterd•y'a Results Quebec 3, Boston 2 Philadelphia 7. N Y Rangers 3 Edmonton 5. New Jersey 1 Minnesota 2, N.Y. Islanders 0 

State of the art at General Dynamics is a state of mind_ More than technology or hardware, it is a way of viewing everything in terms of the future and finding the means to turn new ideas into reality. 
This vision has helped General Dynamics become a world leader in aerospace, electronics, shipbuilding and other areas-and has opened up many diverse opportunities for collegP. graduates with degrees in Electrical, Mechanical, Computer Engineering and Computer Science/Math. 
General Dynamics will be interviewing on campus in the near future. See your placement office to arrange an appointment. Or send your resume to William Shine, College Relations Coordinator, General Dynamics, Electronics Division, P.O. Box 81127, San Diego, CA 92138_ The divisions listed will be interviewing on: 
INTERVIEW DATE: NOVEMBER 19TH 
GENERAL CVNAMIC:S 
Electronics Division &Pomona Division 
An Equal Opportunity Employer' U.S Citizenship Required 
' 
. ' 
.. ­

~--~------·-----------------~-­
----·----­
The Observer Friday, November 12, 1982-page 20 

PUZZELLO'S DEL/ 
433 N. Hill 
HOMEMADE PIZZA 
12"-$4.95 
16"-$6.50 
Any Topping Available (each add. item. 70, .90) 
BRING IN THIS AD AND SAVE 20% ON FOOD ORDERS 
~~~~~~F~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Party Trays to order -Call today! We take orders for delivery u ntiiB pm. · 
Open 9 to 6 Mon-Wed. to 9 Thurs-Sat. 
• 2GRAND PRIZE WINNERS win an all expense paid trip for themselves and a friend to Toronto for • 500 SECOND PRIZE THE WHO's last performance. WINNERS win THE WHO's "It's 
• 50 FIRST PRIZE WINNERS "' Hard" album plus a SchliuJWHO win a Koss Music Box personal tour T-shin. portable cassette player along with • Emn· Hlank' a1·a!lahk a1 raniupalin~ racka~e ~ 
"ton::-. and tn\l't nl ,·our ht\'(lflll' watl'nng hnJc,. 
SCHLITZ ROCKS AMERICA 
ENTRIES MUST BE RECEIVED BY NOVEMBER 30, 1982. 
<•Ml.ICII $Ctti.1Tl811EWII'KOCOIIIIIIAN' lllllW..utF.Ef WI 

232-2512 
SANDWICHES -Italian Beef -Prosciutti n i 
-Italian Hero(Sub) 
-Homemade 
Meatball 
Spurns Hagler bout 
Leonard to stay retired 
BALTIMORE (AP) -Sugar Ray Leonard says his retirement from boxing as welterweight champion is permanent, but fellow fighters aren't so sure. 
"Let's give him six months to a year and then we'll know," said mid­dleweight champion Marvin Hagler, one of many boxing greats who at­tended Tuesday night's gala when Leonard said goodbye to the ring. 
And former heavyweight cham­pion Ken Norton said Wednesday he thought Leonard, like other cham­pions from joe Louis to Muhammad Ali, would tight again. 
Leonard cooled speculation that he would use the extravaganza to an­nouce a multimillion-dollar match with Hagler by saying: "I will not come back. That's it. Boxing is his­tory." 
Leonard, who has not fought since 
undergoing surgery last spring to repair a detached retina -an injury from which his doctor said he had recovered enough to fight again. 
He acknowledged that a fight with Hagler "would be Fort Knox" ­worth an estimated S20 million to Leonard and SI2 million to Hagler. 
"Unfortunately, it will never hap­pen," he said, bringing groans from a crowd of about 9,000 who paid up to S I 00 for a seat to hear his an­nouncement. 
"The feeling is gone," Leonard confessed, saying he changed his mind about retiring many times and claiming he didn't make his final decision until Tuesday night. 
But yesterday Leonard's picture appeared on the cover ofSports Il­lustrated magazine, accompanied by a headline reading "Hanging 'Em Up" and a story in which he said: 
" ... by the time you read this, I will have made my announcement offi­cial, and I hope it ends forever all speculation that I will come back to tight Marvin Hagler or anyone else." 
With the welterweight title now vacant, top-ranked contenders Mil­ton McCrory and Donald Curry like­ly will fight tor the championship. 
McCrory of Detroit is listed by both the World Boxing Council and the World Boxing Association as the No. I contender. Curry of Fort 
Follow the Fighting Irish on · Mutual Radio 
......,.,.~=""""'~=~Join Tony Roberts and AI Wester Saturday, November 13 as the "Fighting !rish" meet Penn State during the 15th consecutive season of national play­by-play broadcasts produced by Mutual Sports, radio's leader in sports broadcasting. 


Larry Michael, Producer of Mutual's weekly show entitled "Quarterback Sneak with Joe Theismann, "interviews QB Blair Kiel 
MUTUAL BROADCASTING SYSTEM rm 
The Leader in Netv. ork Radio Sports 
Worth, Texas, is ranked ~econd by 
the WBC and WBA. 

But Ed Hrica, a promoter of nine 
Leonard fights, said he thought the 
champion's retirement would be 
temporary unless "his movie and 
television career takes off like his 
boxing." 

"I think he'll fight again, when he 
gets the itch again," speculated city 
official Lou Grasmick who said 
Leonard agreed that his next tight, if 
there is one, would he in Baltimore 
where he launched a pro career that 
earned him 540 million and two 
titles. 

In .:B bout~. Leonard lost only once, to Rcberto Duran. 
Grasmick, who organized Tues­day's affair, called "An Evening with Sugar Ray Leonard," recalled the fighter's indecision following his gold medal performance in the 19""6 Olympics. At the time, Leonard said: "My journey has ended. My mission is complete." 
Leonard's manager, Angelo Dun­dee, claims, "I have no doubt he'll stick to his decision." And his lawyer, Mike Trainer, says, "Everything has to come to an end." 
But a patient Hagler insisted, "My day will eventually come." 
...----~---...---------.--------~­
_T_h_e_O__b_s_e_rv_e_r_______________________________________________________F_r_id_a~y~,Novemberl2, 1982-page21 
At District IV tneet 
RunnersshootforNCAAberlh 
By NAT RICH 
Sports Writer 
The moment of truth has arrived. Without a superb effort, there will be no tomorrow. No, this is not a description of the football team and its bowl chances, but instead portrays the plight of the Notre Dame cross country team. The NCAA District IV Championships will be held tomorrow morning in Lafayette. 
District IV is, as Irish coach Joe Piane puts it, "If not the strongest district in the nation, then one ofthe top two." It includes all Division I teams from the states of Minnesota, Wisconsin, Illinois, Ohio, Michigan, and Indiana. The competition promises to be tlerce. but even so, the Irish have a bettershot at making it to the National Championships than ever before. Says Piane, "If we can run up to our potential, our capacity, we can qualify, but it'll · definitely take some great individual 
~:~1~~1~:.~~~:~::~~s~:,~:: 
make it to the Championships by placing amongst the top five in­dividuals who won't be already 
~~;E~¥.l;~~~~:::
sist of the same seven athletes who have led them all year: Marc Woz­niak, A8 v CDillon, RalTph CBaron, Jimd
n~ . 

Ty1er, 111 ourtney, tm artran , 
'Barna's Bear 
ponders 
future 
TUSCALOOSA, Ala. ( AP) -A sports writer walked through the door just after Bear Bryant finished his weekly news conference and the Alabama football coach confronted him: "If I gave you a good kick, you would either be on time from now on or stop showing up?" 
"That's about right," the writer said. 
"Maybe that's what I need to do with my team," said Bryant, who has been blaming himself for several days because his Crimson Tide has lost two games this season. 
In fact, Bryant strongly hinted af­ter Louisiana State's 20-10 victory last Saturday that it might be time for a change. 
But the 69-year-old coach said Wednesday: "I want to coach until I'm 80 or 90 iflrcan get good results. If I get to where I can't get them to play, that's another matter." 
By most standards, Alabama's 7-2 
mark  would  be  satisfactory,  but  
Bryant  was  asked  why  some  
Alabama fans  are  dissatisfied with  

anything less than a perfect season and a national title. 
Collectible Records 
hard to find out of print records 
Lincolnway East and Cedar in Mishawaka 
(5 blocks east of downtown) 
Tues.-Fri. 5-8 p.m. 
Sat. 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
and Tim Cannon. The runners have all been consistent. with three dif­ferent ones winning races this year. Piane commented, "There's no way you can say who will lead for us, be­cause they're all so even. Caron won for us last time, but you just can't tell." 
It's been two weeks since the team's last race. and this could work in Notre Dame's favor. The lengthy period of preparation and the rest were both well appreciated. "That long of a break has to work in a team's favor, we'll be ready," Piane said. 
"It's going to be a great cross country race, there's no doubt about it," he continued, "we'll be seeing some great competition. We're looking forward to it though, it's the highlight of the season. The kids have performed really well this year, 
and I believe they will aga t in on Saturday." Piane has no complaints about his 1982 squad. "This team runs more aggressively than any team I've seen here at Notre Dame, especially this late in the season." 
As Notre Dame fans prepare for Saturday's more publicized show­down, the cross country team's showdown should be kept in mind. A shot at the national championship is an object every team covets, and that shot will be passing within reach of the Irish harriers Saturday 
morning. 

Notre Dame's cross-country team will travel to Lafayette, In­diana, tomorrow to compete in the NCAA DistrictIV meet. Atstake is a berth to the national championship meet next week. Nat Rich assesses the barriers' chances at left. (Photo by Ed Carroll) 
!
.·.· 
:::: :::: 
{ 

I 
· · :::: 
} 

II 
:;::. \: 
!))j 
.·.· 
i! .·.· 
t 
.·.· ! 
.·.·
::::
.•.·

.·.· 
I .·.· :::: 
:::: 
::::
.·.· 
!~!!
.·.· 
lll: 
.·.· 
~~~:

.·.· 
l
.... 

llll ,•,• 
I
,•,• 
::::
.·.· 
~\1 

a w :_.,:w 14F­
r ........ ----~--· ~ -~---~ ----~­
r The Observer Friday, November 12, 1982 -page 22 

UCLA's Ramsey aimsfor Roses 
Nobody in his school history ever threw more passes, completed more, gained more yards, or scored more touchdowns. And his team had such golden arms as Bob 
~liD Murray
Waterfield, Kenny Washington, Gary Beban, Ronnie Knox, Paul Cameron. Few college players have been able to strike through 
The Best of 11m Murray
the air whith more deadly accuracy. Not even the likes 
ofJohnny Unitas, Joe Namath, Terry Bradshaw. But no 
one ever calls him "The Rifle," or "Target Tom," or Mr. Outsides, 01' No. 98, Harmon of Michigan. The last 
"Broadway." In fact, no one even calls him "Heisman 10 winners have all been 1,000-yard runners, the Billy 
Candidate." Sims, the George Rogers, the Earl Campbells, the Tony 
He has thrown 45 touchdowns, 368 completions, Dorsetts, the leg players. The Heisman takes the safe 5,224 yards, and a .591 percentage in his career, but the route now. Quarterbacks are down with the lineback-Heisman committee would probably ask "Tom Who?" ers and defensive tackles in the voting. from "UC-where?" So, Tom Ramsey may have to content himself with a 
"Tom Who?" is Tom Ramsey and he's from UCLA. Pac 10 championship and a Rose Bowl and probably There's the rub right thert·. When Heisman balloters being a first-round draft choice in the pros. The Heis­think ofa Trophy from the West Coast, they immidiate-man will go to Herschel Walker or Eric Dickerson or ly construct in their minds a 6/2, 21 0-pound sprinter in Ernest Anderson ofOklahoma State, who is the nation's the blood-red and gold of the Universiy of Southern leading rusher. The quarterback who will get the most California varsity who operates behind a line that votes will probably be Stanford'sJohn Elway. resembles the skyline of Detroit; a man who goes in the But, Tom Ramsey has to settle for being singled out end zone in back of what appears to be the entire Glee merely as "most improved." In the nationally-televised Club if not the whole student body. Michigan game this year, Ramsey led a team into the 
Heisman voters are hung up on halfbacks. For them, unfriendly confines of Michigan Stadium at Ann Arbor, Gus Dorias and Knute Rockne invented the pass in vain. playing a team that had beaten him 33-14 in the They are as uninterested in it as Woody Hayes. The few Bluebonnet Bowl earlier in the year. Ramsey even saw times they have gone against their instincts, they have that team jump out to a 21-0 lead, before he began to been burned. Which is to say, their selections have pick the Michigan defense apart like a burglar, a rusty proved to have been suspect in the pro ranks. lock. He completed 22 out of 36 throws for 311 yards, 
The Heisman committee, against its better judgment, two touchdowns, and scored another, and UCLA has picked quarterbacks who did nothing to enhance wound up the winners. the prestige of the award. Terry Baker, in 1962, the first None of this puts Tom Ramsey in a frame of mind to West Coast awardee (from Oregon State) comes to 

begin rehearsing his acceptance speech for the 
mind. The Rams strove for years trying to find out what
SecondAnnual 
Downtown Athletic Club next winter. "I don't expect
to do with this No. 1 draft pick of theirs. Steve Spurrier, 
the unexpected," he laughs. "I came to UCLA to get an 
in 1966, beat out, of all people, Bob Griese, by one
Senior Block Party education, not a cup. I do want to play in a Rose Bowl 
place. But, he beat out Floyd Little by six places. That
3:30 Friday, Nou. 12 lesson was not lost on the Heisman balloters. Pat Sui-game. Pro football? I'm not depending on it. Oh, sl 
I've had feelers from the pros, and I would expect to !ivan, in 1971, was such an infelicitous choice, no quar­drafted early. But the Heisman? Frankly, I never eve,
nder the hockey dome ACC 
terback has ever come close in the balloting since.John thought about it." 
Huarte, in 1964, was the quarterback winner who beat
Plenty of Food,Refreshments~, .. out Joe Namath and Craig Morton. Roger Staubach and Which is probably just as well. Neither, probably, did Jim Plunkett are almost the only passers in the history of Johnny Unitas, Sammy Baugh, Joe Namath and Terry
and Music All Seniors, Faculty, and 
the award who did not disgrace, or at least let down, the Bradshaw. When they vote the Heisman to the West, honor. they usually take the safe route and simply mark it.
N. EAST NEIGHBORS WELCOME 
For the rest, the award goes to people who keep the "Occupant-USC Tailback Spot." No more quarterbacks ball -the OJ Simpsons, the Marcus Aliens, Mr. Insides, need apply. 
r-----------~------------------~ 
ALL LIQUOR 2to.-1 DISCOUNTS 


) 
7-10  THURS 11/1118­ EVERY FRIDAY  
the Game 75¢ Bloody Marys & 75¢ SCHNAPPS  
BEEFEATER NIGHT 95¢ A DRINK PRIZES  MIDNIGHT SPECIAL 11:30-12:30 75¢ BAR DRINKS  
25¢ BEER  


~~ 
NOTRE DAME vs. PENN STATE 
HOME GAME 
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1982 
~ Special Attractions *******************"*. 
....SPECIAL HOURS. • 11 :30 am to 11 :30 pm . 
· Featuring our regular dinner menu inctudmg all your Bar-B-Que favorites. Famous low prices too! 
SPECIAL CARRY OUT SERVICE· By popular demand: our Hickory smoked ribs and chicken offered 'to go'. Call ahead tor details and prompt service. 
, 
SPECIAL SANDWICH MENU. 11:30 to 4:00pm Not availabl~ny other time, but for this event. Extra generous B-B-0 Beef, trench dip, Reuben -each only$4.25or Chicken Teriyaki at$4.95. 
Special Late Night * EARTHSHAKERS $2.00 

SPECIAL 3 drinks in 0'1e
* BUCKETS OF BOOZE $4.00 
SPECIAL 6ozof booze 
* PITCHERS OF BREW 
SPECIAL :)3.75 52885 US 31 North South Bend, 272-5478*LITRES OF MARGARITAS 
~ 
SPECIAL $4.95 

11 pm-2:00am in the lounge only 
Write the Sports Editor 
The Observer, P. 0. Box Q 
s.rE~TJIPHOTOGBAPHICA ~~~r 
Century Center -So. Bend, Ind. 
BUY -SELL -SWAP IMAGES, BOOKS, PHOTO EQUIPMENT CAMERAS • MODERN, CLASSIC & ANTIQUE. BRING IN YOUR OLD CAMERAS & PHOTO EQUIPMENT FOR FREE APPRAISALS! 
Sun, Nov. 14, 1982 10-5 EST 
ADMISSION S3 ·SAVE-A-BUCK! $2 WITH THIS ADI 
Paul Goddard 616 683 8859 Roger Smith 219 259 2968 0 G&S PRODUCTIONS R-#5 224 UllERY RD NilES, Ml49120 

Happy Birthay .Claudia Hov. 14-You're21 Where's the Party? 


Ihe-O~~er===================================~ 
Weekend 
Friday, November 12, 1982 page 23 



Garry Trudeau 
lWO 'DEl\(IOUS 
?IE(£<;, OF llQi 
TIZ'ZI\ WILL rb\)
a-ITO 11i111 fti!T£. 
fHfY EVEN Hf'LD A 
111Af WAS A RAlLY ON NOT 
Vt~ARI1r..t1£Nf 1i:ALLY 
~~1"1lN~ 'BON&'D./ 
D.'l-,._1 1 
~i? \ 





Campus 
•12:30 
p.m. -Colloquium, "Populist Move­

•3 
p.m. -Sprots Law Forum, 10I CCE , Sponsored by Law School 

•3:I5 
p.m. Philosophy Colloquium, "Maimonides, Aquinas, and Giersonides on Providence and Evil," Rev. David Burrell, library Lounge 

•5 
p.m. -Volleyball, NO Women vs.IUSB, ACC Aux. Gym 

•5:I5 
p.m. -Mass and Supper, Bulla Shed, Sponsored by Campus Ministry, 

•7 
p.m.-Fllm, "Gods of Metal," Lafortune little Theatre, Sponsered By Pax Christi 

•7, 
9, and II p.m. -Fllm, "On the Waterfront," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Film Club, S1 

•7:30 
p.m. -Friday Night Fllm Series, "Contract," Annenberg Auditorium, ~2 

•s 
p.m. -Lecture, "Prevailing Temperaments in the Visual Arts," Ivan Karp, Bendix Theatre in the Century Center 

•8 
p.m. -Play, "The Maids," Washington Hall, Sponsored by ND/SMC Theatre, S2.50 for students 

•9 
p.m. -Beaux Arts Ball, Costume theme "Bad Taste,", featuring "The Kinetics,", and "The Room," Architecture Building 

•9 
p.m. -NAZZ, Shenanigans, 

•II 
p.m. -~AZZ, Open Stage 


ments  In Advanced  Societies:  Implications  For  
Political  Theory,"  Stephen  Schneck,  1201  
Memorial  library,  Sponsored  by  Government  
Department  

\ 

Saturday, Nov. 13 
• 
10, II a.m., 12, 2, & 7:30p.m. -Football Film, "Wake Up the Echoes," Field House, North Dome, ACC 

•3:50 
p.m. -Football, Notre Dame vs. Penn State, Stadium 

•7, 
9, and II p.m. -Fllm, "On the Waterfront," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Film Club, $1 

•s 
p.m. -Play, "The Maids," Washington Hall, Sponsored by ND/SMC Theatre, $2.50 for students 



©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
ACROSS 25 Florida ·1 Towel word tobacco 1; Destroyer center 
of wool 26 Gov. area !I River In 27 Snicker ­
The Daily Crossword 
Italy 28 Author's 14~ Heating wortts device 29 Circular 
1fi Common design Latin 31 Hole in one phrase 33 West German 
11li As-(gen· industrial 
erally) region H Puerto -35 Pickles 18 Parch 38 Daylight 19 Varnish hours 
ingredient 41 Certain 20 Condescends cars 22 Secret 42 Beams 
signals 43 -Khan 24 Resident: 44 Gaunt suff. 46 -Cruces 
Thursday's Solution 

48 Electrical unit 50 Reine's mate 51 Burst forth violently 
54 Blackbird 
55 Close 
56 "Do-,not asldo" 57 Obese 
59..following 61 Bemoodily silent 62 Sounding metallic 63 Part of 
Q.E.D. 
64 Subdue 
1SS County in 
England 156 Alphabet sequence 67 Partner of alack 
DOWN 1 Actor 
Buchholz 2 Musical hit 3 Endorse­
ments 4 Prowls 5 Feelthe 
absence of 6 Number 7 Combination 
trucking units 8 Bravemen 

9 Empty container weight 
10 Anger 11 Trade, 
customarily 12 Cream 13 Ms. Taylor 21 Going by 23 Stylish 27 Bewilder 29 "Norma-" 30 Rumples 31 Donkey 32 Poolroom 
piece 34 Convince 36 Wriggly 
one 37 Plggery 39 Declaim 40 Rowing item 45 Certain 
borrowed 
Item 47 Awn 48 Useless 
expenditure 49 Those opposed 52 Spanish 
port 53 Children 55 Lower world 
river 56 Aleutian 
island 58 One: Fr. 60 Memorial 
post 
•s 
p.m. -Dance Concert, Abiogenesis Fall Con­cert, Lafortune Ballroom, Sponsored by ND Stu­dent Union 

•8 
p.m. -Stage Show, "Appearing Nitely," Uly Tomlin, O'Laughlin Auditorium, $10.50 

•9 
p.m. -Billy Squire in Concert, ACC, ~I 0, and 59 

•9 
p.m. -Dramatic Reading, "Shapeshifter II," · David Pierson-Garrick, NAZZ 

•9:30 
p.m. -NAZZ, The Bolletones 

• 
10 p.m. -NAZZ, Open Stage 


Sunday, Nov. 14 
•I
:30 p.m. -JuniorVarsity Football Game, ND vs. Cincinnati, Cartier Field •2p.m.-MasswithEmmaus,MoreauSeminary 

•2:30 
p.m. -Fiber Art Lecture, Magdalena Abakonowitz, Annenberg Auditorium 

•7 
p.m. -Harvest Music Festival Concert, ND/SMC Gospel Choir, Memorial Library Auditorium 

•7, 
and 8:30 p.m. -Basketball, Intra-Squad Charity Game, ACC, S 1 for adults, 50cents for stu· dents 

•s 
p.m. -Concert, St. Mary's College Wind En­semble Concert, Little Theatre 



~--------------­
----~-~-~---------~-~--------------­


leers in Chicago 
Deasey star on diatnond or ice 
By JUDY McNAMARA 
that he doesn't shoot enough." Three or four years ago they began Sports Writer "The team this year is very to build their new sports payilion young," says Deasey. "Last year we (Circle Pavilion is now ready) and "I encourage my hockey players had (Bill) Rothstein, (Dave) Poulin, they started recruited heavily thoug­not to play hockey," says head coach and others who would go out there hout Canada and the United States, Lefty Smith, "during the summer." and pick up the team. This year we so they have quite a group of 
This is perfectly fine with left win­all have to pick up each other and veterans. gerJohn Deasey. Deasey is that rare ourselves." "We're going into this with an athlete who is good enough to play This weekend, the Irish travel to emotional disadvantage," said Smith, in two college sports. When he is off Illinois-Chicago to face the Flames at "but the players know this and are the ice at the end of the season, the the Circle Pavillion. Next weekend ready for it." sophomore from Edina, Minn., grabs they return home to face Michigan his mitt and runs to center field Tech in the North Dome ofthe ACC. IRISH ITEMS -Injuries, whkh where head coach Larry Gallo is Hopefully, Notre Dame can come have been a problem oflate with the waiting. back home with an improvement on defense, are beginning to go away ­
"I like it when a player is talented the current 2-4 record. hopefully ....Sean Regan, who has enough to play in more than one "This is an important series for been out the entire season had his sport. Ideally, when we look for us," said Deasey, "because right now cast offTuesday, and his arm did not players in high school, we look for we're 2-4 and it's important for us to develop any adhesions as was feared. people who play in more than one get to .500. We think we can sweep Smith says that he hopes Regan "ill sport. I like a athlete who par­the series and do it." be back by the tlrst week in Decem­ticipates in football and baseball as "This is going t to be a tough her ....Mark "Million-Dollar" Ben­well as hockey. series," worried Lefty Smith. "They ning is very doubtful for this 
"In football, he learns dedication are really hyping this up in their weekend with his fractured and competition on a head-to-head press releases, calling this the next wrist ....Tadd Tuomie, the fresh­level, and he learns to accept punish­Harvard-Yale or Michigan-Michigan man who has been sidelined all ment. In baseball, there are many State match. They're trying to build season, will remain so for another physical aspects an athlete can rrans-up a natural rivalry with us because series ... .Joe Bowie, who played 
. fer to many other sports." we're so close to them. last Saturday although he was 
Deasey follows a his brother, "This is the one sport where we injured, was sick yesterday, but will Mike, on Jake Kline field. The elder can compete on the same level. probably play this Deasey pitched for the Irish baseball Illinois-Chicago doesn't have a foot­weekend ... .Tony Bonadio team from 1977 to 1981. But there's ball team and their basketball team is separated his shoulder last Friday. only been one Deasey on the ice. But just starting. In hockey, though, they and will sit out this series. However. one has been enough so far. Deasey have been together longer than us. he will be ready to play Monday. is second on the team in points with two goals and five assists, and even more important, nopenalries. 
"John is an excellent skater, pas­
Volleyball teatn closes 
ser, and all-around athlete," praises Smith. "His only weakness may be 
... today writh IUSB 
By MIKE SULLIVAN Moreover, the incoming freshmen, Sports Writer especially Karen Bauters and Mary McLaughlin, have come from good
NFL callsfor renewed talks 
Today is the day. It is your last volleyball backgrounds and have ad­chance to see the 1982 Notre Dame justed to collegiate play very well. 
NEWYORK(AP)-With the uni­between our committees can settle items they would have to have in or­women's volleyball team in action as This abundance of experience ty of the players' assoctauon this dispute within 36 hours." der to go along with it," Garvey said. the squad finishes its regular season and talent saved the team from what eroding, union leader Ed Garvey The latest break in union unity "In fact, ifthe owners grant all those by playing host to !USB in the ACC could have been a disastrous second called yesterday for renewed came yesterday when the Miami things these teams ask for, we'd Pit at 5 p.m. halfofthe season as most ofthe start­negotiations "in the spirit of com­Dolphins reversed themselves and probably have a collective bargain­The match will mark the end ofan ers suffered injuries. The team has promise" to end the 52-day-old Na­voted 39-0 to join the New Orleans ing agreement ... impressive year for the Irish, their had at least one player out ofaction tional Football League strike. Saints, Los Angeles Rams, Houston "They're caught," Garvey said of third as a varsity team at Notre for nearly the entire season and will 
But the Management Council's Oilers, Cincinnati Bengals and Den­the owners. "They have to come Dame. After finishing their first two finish up with one player out and chief negotiator, Jack Donlan, said ver Bror.:::~s in accepting in prin­back to the bargaining table and years with records of 3-19 and 17-three playing with injuries. Garvey had provided "no basis for a ciple the owners' most recent offer. resolve it -even ifevery player had 25, they now carry a 24-9 overall Another problem that the team settlement or the resumption of In each case, the team said the accepted it in principle." mark and a 17-1 record in non­has been forced to overcome is the meaningful negotiations." money was right or the offer could Garvey said the players were ask­tournament play. A bid to the NCAA lack of student support at home 
Donlan, in a letter to Garvey, said be used as the basis for negotiations, ing $366 million a year for three playoffs is not out of the question games. Nearly the entire crowd at the owners were willing to clarify but each had problems with specific years, while the owners were at even though the chances of it horne games comes from South ambiguities and other questions areas ofthe offer. $320 million for five years. happening are remote. Not too bad Bend. In a sport where emotion and which have arisen in players' Several members of the Dallas Donlan said the owners' proposal for a team that moved up to Division momentum are important, the lack meetings this week, when six teams Cowboys, among them quarterback as of Saturday night, when negotia­I just this year. of crowd support could be costly, have voted to accept the owners' Danny White, have said they would tions collapsed, would cost J270 A tremendous increase in talent especially when local schools like latest offer in principle. be willing to approve the contract if million for 1983 alone. and experience is most responsible IUSB come to the ACC and play in 
"Our money proposal is out revisions were made. The team did, , "The union did not respond by for the team's sudden success. The front offamily and friends. there," Donlan said. "Compromise is in fact, reject the owners' offer. reducing the cost ofits demands but, players returning from last year's The match today will be a best-of­not the watchword at this point in Mickey Marvin of the Los Angeles in fact, the last proposals made in­squad, including co-captains MaryJo five series of games; however, the time. Realism is. Raiders said his team likely would creased costs substantially," Donlan Hensler and Josie Maternowski, Irish are expected to win in three 
"We have vast economic and con­have ~cepted in principle if it had said. Jackie Pagley, Terese Henken, straight. The entire match should ceptual differences and it's time they decide~ to vote. The Minnesota Eight weekends -112 games -Maureen Morin, Robin Israel, and not last more than an hour, so it will realized that they have to move sub­Viking~ did not vote but asked the have been called off because of the Julie Pierson have benefited from not infringe upon the spectators' stantially and dramatically in our union/to alter its wage-scale stance. stri~e. their previous experience. buffet at the dining halls. direction" Tampa Bay, Pittsburgh, Atlanta 
Garvey insisted that those votes and St. Louis voted against the offer, do not mean the union is losing sup­but the union has refused to give a port. full team-by-team breakdown. 
Ruggers complete unbeaten slate
"No team, and, as far as we know, Each club which accepted the of­no individual member has endorsed fer in principle also had a "list of your proposal as it stands," Garvey 
RUGBY -The rugby football club ended its un­said in a memorandum to Donlan, defeated fall campaign with a 28-0 shelling of South NFL Commissioner Pete Rozelle and Bend last Saturday. The win upped the Aside's record to SteveDanco Chuck Sullivan of the New England 6-0-1 and was typical of the team's balanced attack 
Patriots, chairman of the manage­throughout the year. ment council's executive commit­Once again Brian Moynihan led the Irish offense. His tee. "In total, approximately two goals on Saturday made him the only player to Club corner 100-125 out of 1,600 players have score or assist at least one goal in every game. Matt Stol­accepted in principle your last wyck, John Goebelbecker, Clark Keough and Paul VOLLEYBALL -The men's volleyball team opened proposal. It's quite possible the same Pirona each scored once and Steve Schneider was suc­its season last Sunday with a 4-4 record on the after­number would have accepted your cessful on two conversions. noon. The team split two games in each of their four September 8 proposal." The B team dropped its final game 12-8 to a matches. 
Garvey said the owners "have combined team of South Bend's A and B squads. Jeff The tournament got offto a slow start as Notre Dame invited anarchy" by trying to bypass Branigan and Vince Foley both scored for the Irish. lost its first game 15-13 to South Bend. The team was the union and bargain with the The Ateam dominated every aspect ofplay in the first able to rebound though and earned their first win in a players. game. The Irish never even allowed South Bend a hard-fought 15-12 victory. Notre Dame split with host 
-.· "The union will not break, but we scoring opportunity as they controlled the game on Elkhart 12-1 5, 15-12 and with LaPorte 15-13, 14-16. Af­will bend," he said. "Team-by-team South Bend's half of the field for most of the contest. ter dropping their next game to Indianapolis I 5-1 3, the _negotiations will guarantee further 
The team now takes December and January off before 
See CLUBS, page 19

jack Donlan regrouping in February for spring drills.
problems; good-faith negotiations 







