


.· ­
INSIDE: 
HE .......SHEXTR 
\'01. X\"1 I. :".10 22 

Blair Kiel's vindication 
Coaching and confidence help him overcome adversity andfamily ties 
By ED KONRADY 
.\ports Writer 
This Saturday the hlack and gold of Purdue will get no sympathy from a pair of !}oiler· maker alumni and thdr son. 
:\-1r. and Mrs. Fritz Kid will he on hand to cheer on their son Blair. as the Fighting Irish take the tldd against the winless Boiler­makers. 
"We went to a tew Purdue games when Blair was seven or eight," said the elder Kid, "when :\-1ike Phipps was quarterback. But there was never am· pressure ti>r Blair to fol­low in that direction. 
"Purdue never really recruited him as strongly as Notre Dame ·and Indiana llniver· sitv did." 
"I did consider going to Purdue," said Blair. "hut only hec;tuse it was an in-state school. Basically it wa.... hetween l.l'. and :"lotre Dame. I really didn't like Purdue that well." 
Blair is not worried ahout any split al­legiances from his parents. "Playing against my parents' alma mater doesn't hother me he­cause tht·y've turned their allegiance to Notre Dame. Dad really wants us to heat Purdue." 
Beating Purdue is on a lot ofpt:ople's minds, especially after last year's game, which the Boilermakers won in the closing seconds, IS-
1-l. 
SHOWCASE 
--........~ 


FESTIVITIES AT TAILGATERS-P.9 
"Purdue is going 10 he a tough team for us 
-last year they upset us at Purdue -and 
that's in the hack of en:ryone·s mind." said 
Kid "That's going 10 he my added incentive 
when we play." 

How well the Irish will play partially rides 
on the shoulders of the Colomhus, Ind.. 
n·ative. "My role is to he a team leader. to do 
my joh as well as I can do it. If I stav relaxed 
and under control, then the offensiv~ unit will 
he more relaxed, and the unit will perform 
much hetter. 

"This year I kt:l much more relaxed, more confident. Two years ago Iwas coming in here as a freshman, having to learn a new svstem while alternating with .\1ike Courev as a. start· er. Last year I was worried ahout. Ill\' status with Mike Courey and another new c;>aching staff. We al!ernated again, and I reallv didn't get a chance to establish mvself. · 
"This year I won the j;>h outright -it's mine to win and keep, and it's mine to lose. No one can take that away from me, so I'm not feeling any pressure from anvone else and constantly looking over my sh<;ulder. 
"The coaches have confidence in me. the players do, and I do, and that makes me fed a lot hctter." 
See KIEI., page 15 
Scott Campbell 




ND looks for revenge 
1ry to avoid letdown after upset win over Michigan 
By GLEN BAILEY 
Sports Writer 

It is Septemher 26, 19H I and Notre Dame's rookie coach. <;erry Faust, is ahout to hecome a victim ofone of those miracle finishes usally reserved for the Fighting Irish. 
After s-minutes of play hetween Notre Dame and Purdue at Ross Ade Stadium, Notre Dame's Phil Carter hroke a ---tie with a :\0· yard touchdown run that appeared to ice the game for the Irish. 
It did not. 

On a risky fourth and one. Purdue crossed its own )0-yard line and picks up a precious tlrst down. On the next play. Boilermaker Quarterback Scott Camphell fired toward the endzone where flanker Steve Bryant came down with the hall hetween two Notre Dame defenders. On the next play. Bryant caught the touchdown pa.~s that lifted Purdue to within a point. 14-1 ). 
Play for the tie' :"lot on this day. Figuring if it worked once it would work again. Boiler-
NEWS · : ... -­
ED KOCH LOSES IN NEW YORK-P.3 
SATl.RD:\Y. SEPTE\tBER 2S, 19H2 

Blair Kiel 
maker Coach Jim Young instruhed Camphell 
to call the same play that had resulted in the 
touchdown. 
It worked again. Two points. Final score: 
Purdue IS, Notre Dame I4. 
And Gerry Faust and his players still remem­
ber. 
Is it real' Are the Fighting Irish really as good as they looked in last Saturday's 2)·I 7 win over Mich­igan? Or will the Boilermakers of Purdue once again hurst the huhhle and upset Notre Dame on its home field' ' 
"I was happy for our players Saturday night hecause it hadn't heen much fun during the summer remembering last season," said Faust, who didn't give his team l(')ng to savor the win 
over Michigan. 
"But we're a long way from where we want to be," Faust quickly added. "We did some things well but let's see how well we come back and do them this week." 
See OUTLOOK, page 15 



---------~~--~--~----~-~~~--~-~------­
Saturday, September 2 5, 1982 pagei.

The Irish Extra-Purdue 



Stopping the Boiler 
Irish can't let Scott Campbell establish the ground game !I 

By SKIP DESJARDIN 
Sports EditorEmeritus 
Last season, as the final seconds ticked away, Scott Campbell led the Purdue Boiler­makers to a come-from-behind win over the Irish. 
In 1980, Campbell came off the bench at the last minute to replace injured starter Mark Herrmann. He was 17-28 for 178 yards in that nationally-televised game. 
"Scott Campbell is an excellent quarter­
back," says Notre Dame Coach Gerry Faust. 
"He scrambles well and he isn't afraid to 
throw on the run. Steve Smith was the kind of 
quarterback who'd always run ifwe broke the 
containment. But Campbell is different. He 
can, and will, run. But he throws well on the 
run, and that scares us." 
There is little question that Campbell is the key to Purdue's chances this weekend. His ~uccess, however, may hinge -not on his arm -but on the runners behind him. 
The Irish secondary is still somewhat of a question mark. They must prepare for an aerial onslaught on the part of the Boiler­makers. If Campbell can establish a running game, he can keep Notre Dame's def<;nsive backtleld off-balance. They will not· be able to hang back, waiting for Campbell to throw. 
They will have to give up a half step, just in case the Boilers run. 
Play-action passes by Campbell could freeze Irish defenders just long enough to free up a receiver. And that will mean trouble for Notre Dame. 
Purdue is led by tailback Mel Gray. In two games thus far, he has gained 164 yards on 32 carries. Had Purdue been closer to Stanford or Minnesota, they might have been able to run more, and Gray would have even more im­pressive stats. 
But his running ability is impressive as it is. The junior college transfer earned JC All­America honors at Coffeyville in Kansas. He adds an element of quickness to the Boiler backfield that has been lacking in recent seasons. 
Gray is only '5-9, 16-t, but he's a durable, strong runner who can physically· handle a pounding. 
Joining him in the backtleld will he fresh­man power-runner Rodney Carter. The 6-2, 190-lh. runner is -li~e Gray -averaging over t1ve yards per carry. He complemt:nts Gray's styk, as well. While Gray h the spt:edster, the Boilers rely on Carter for the 
"must" yards. 

The Irish defensive lint: will have to play as well as the did last week to shut down tht: run­ning game. for the first time since 1974, Mich­igan was held to under I00 yards rushing. 
Kevin (;riffith, who sacked Steve Smith three times last week, will be chasing Campbell out of tht' pocket again. That leaves much of the burden for stopping the run to Mikt' Gann. Tht' sophomore lint:man was im­pressive in his most extensive action to date last week. Like all the front men, he must repeat that performance. 
There is more good news for the Irish as well. Tackle Tim Marshall, who missed time with a sprained foot, is listed as "probable" for this weekend. 
"We knew we had to be quicker and more physical up front," said faust of last week's game. "I think we've made progress in that direction. 
"But the key against Michigan was pressur­ing Steve Smith and keeping him from option­ing the way he likes to. Campbell presents an entirely different set of problems for us defensively." 
The secondary, which allowed Smith to pass for 186 yards last week, must be allowed to key on the pass. That means that Griffith, Gann and the other men up front for the Irish must shut down the Boiler running game. 
Sweeneymakes hismove 

Switch to tight end was his own idea 
.. 

By TIM DOYLE 
.\jwrts Writer 
Versatilitv and enthusiasm are great assets for an athlete to possess. Ma~y coaches would he pleased to have players with one or the other of these characteristics. Once in a great while a unique player comes along who is able to express both of these characteristics. John Swt'eney not only possesses versatility and enthusiasm, but seems to have a never-ending supply of both. 
After starting at fullback for three seasons. Sweeney, a 6-2, 21""~­lb. senior. began spring football practice at fullback, but soon started to spend time practicing at tight end due to the discovery ofa much-improved Larry Moriarty at fullback. 
Some players might be upset about losing a position at which they started 30 games over three· years. but Swet'ney is philosophical. "It was hard to handle at t1rst hut I have accepted it now. If Moriarty can keep up like Saturday, then he definitely deserves to be in there. I just want to play wherever l can help."· 
/ 

Coach Tom Lichtenberg, offensive coordinator, praise.~ Sweent'v's versatilitv, "John is so valuable to us because he is an excelln~t blocker ;nd can play fullback or tight end. Halfway through spring practice John appraocht'd Coach Faust and me with the proposal ofmoving to tight end. He is such a team player, he onlv wants what is best ti>r the team.' 
A p<;sition change can often prest'nt a player with adjustment prohlems. However, going from fullback to tight end b quite natural for Sweeney. He has the experience of a blocking back and has good hands. 
"Although he has had no prior experknce at tight end," Lichtenberg notes. "he has adjusted' extremely well." 
Sweeney has enjoyed the adjustment. "I like playing tight end. especially in this offense. Because the tight end sees the ball a lot. I teet it is somewhat easier than fullback because you don't take as many hard hits." 
Jimmy Smith 


IRISH EXTRA 
DESIGN ED AND EDITED BY 

Skip Desjardin 
Last week was the tlrst time Sweeney played 
tight end in an actual game. "The tirst series I 
was in there I was so excited and nervous that 
I misrt"ad the defense a couple of times, but 
the next series I was alright." 
With Mark Bavaro out of action for a few 
weeks, Sweeney will take on a more important 
role. "We will use John as more of a primary 
receiver when he is in there this week -as 
opposed to a blocking tight end," says Lich­
tenberg. 
Swet'ney is also the special teams captain, 
another t'Xample of his versatility. 
As tht' lkertield, Ill., native approaches the ·end of his stay at Notre Dame, he realizes he has a :-vide-open future. "I plan to take the MCAT's this spring tht'n look at medical schools. As htr as prokssional football is con­cerned, I will just have to wait until spring." 
For now, however, Sweeney will follow in the footsteps of former teammate Pete Buc­hanan. Last season, Buchanan moved from ful· !back to tight end as well. The reason? There was already a superb athlete ahead of him in the fullback slot, and Buchanan wanted to play. He knew he couldn't heat out the man above him on tht' depth chart. So he made a change. 
That man's name" 
John Swt'eney. 
lk has come full circle in a short time. But Sweeney has lost none of the enthusiasm about which his coaches ra\'e. He's still out to do what he can -'-wherever he can -to help the Irish.

John Sweeney 

~--------~------~-~----------~-------­
, , Revenge -page 4 


VOL. XVII, NO. 22 the indepenJt·nt ~tudt'nt new~paper ~n,·ing notre dame and saint mary·~ SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1982-page 3 

J"roops ofthe injitntry hal/Illion in Genoa, /ta­ll'. tl'lliting to depart hy sert .fi>r I.ehiiiiOtl u•here tbel' ll'ill join French and .·lmerican troops in Heinti. I .~P Photo) 

NYSEhead speaks 



Library's trading post dedicated 
By BARBARA PI1TS 
News Staff 
"Trading Post No. 6", the recent replacement for the familiar "Moses" statue on the second floor of the Memorial Library, was ded­icated yesterday afternoon in a brief ceremony on the second floor lob­by. 
The subject offrequent questions and occasional jokes since its arrival at the beginning of this semester, "Trading Post No. 6" was an integral part of New York Stock Exchange history, having been in use on the floor for more than 50 years. 
John Phelan, Jr., current presidem and chief operating officer of the New York Stock Exchange, spoke at the ceremony. 
Comparing the Stock Exchange to the-University, Phelan said that both are recognized institutions in the United States today, and that, the Post is "reallypeople", as is the Uni­versity. 
Hundreds of people have been as­sociated with the the Stock Exchange, including many Notre Dame graduates, according to Phelan. These individuals have been involved in the "enormous and 
Ends merger fight 

Allied takes over Bendix Corp. 
NEW YORK (AP) -Allied Cor­poration settled the tangled takeover fight between Martin Marietta Corporation and Bendix Corporation late yesterday with an agreement to buy Bendix for about s I.9 billion and gain a significant stake in Marietta as well. 
The companies said Allied would buy the Bendix shares recently purchased hy :'vtarietta, and after­ward would acquire the rest of Ben­dix's stock in a merger, according to a joint statement. 
Allied hau jumped into the fight 

on Wednesday with an agreement to 
merge with Bendix and swallow 
Marietta, too. But shortly afterward Marietta bought 44 percent of Ben­dix's stock. forcing Allied to recon­sider its ambitious, S2. ~hill ion plan. 
Marietta would buy hack I9.I million of the approximately 25.5 million Marietta shares that Bendix had purchased under its contested takeover offer. Marietta would pay the same price that Bendix paid, S--tH a share, or about S9I 5 million. 
As a result. Allied would still hold the 6.4 million :\1arietta shares cur­rently held hy Bendix and not sub­ject to the huyhack agreement. the companies said. Allied said its Marietta holding would represent 

C,onstruction begins on new faculty building 
By DAVID F. TRACY 
.Yeu•.< Staff 

(iroundhreaking took place this week for Notre Dame's future 
Arts and Letters fa<:ulty office building, located hehind 
O'Shaughnessy Hall. 

As ofvesterdav. Carl). Reinke & Sons Construction Co.. the firm in charge ;,f const~uction, had staked out the building, removed the topsoil. and broken ground on the central basement and footings. 
The expected date of completion is April, I9H4. according to Physical Plant Director Donald Dedrick The construction company is ordering supplies and trying to accomplish as much preliminary work as possible before winter. he said. "When the weather breaks in March, we'll really go to it. By November of I9H~. we hope to have the building closed in with the outside work done, including masonry. windows, and roofing, so that we can heat the building and work through the winter." 
The architects. Ellerbe Associates, of Bloomington, Minnesota, designed the structure in three four-story sections,· with lobby entr;mces to the southeast and northwest. It will have 254 offices, a faculty lounge. a conference room, some smaller seminar rooms, and a secretarial pool. 
Its future occupants have been housed in the basement of \temorial Library since its construction in I96:'1. Project cost is estimated at S""'..2 million. 
ahout ~9 percent of the currently outstanding Marietta shares. 
Also. Allied would he given the right to elect two of its nominees to the Marietta hoard. Allied would he prohibited from increasing its inter­est in Marietta, however, hy a so­called "standstill agreement" lhat would last I 0 years. 
Bendix would become a wholly owned subsidiary ofAllied, a petroc­hemical giant, and would retain Wil­liam Agee as Bendix chairman and chief executive. Bendix also would keep its headquarters in Sout:1field, Michigan. In addition, Agee would become president and a memher of the hoard of direc.tors of Allied, the companies said. 
Bendix started the tight last month when it l~unched a s I. 5 hit­lion takeover hid for Marietta. which retaliated with its own s I. 5 trillion offer for Bendix. 
'Alliedjumped into the fight hy agreeing to 
merge' 
Marietta later joined forces with United Technologies Corporation, which is offering S I. 5 hill ion for Bendix and has agreed with Marietta that if either of their hids prevails, they will split some of Bendix's as­sets. 
Marietta is a hig defense contra<:­tor with aerospace interests, while Bendix is a producer of auto parts and aerospace products. llnited Technologies is invoh·ed in a wide variety of high-tehnology fields, while Allied is primarily an energy and chemicals concern. 
dynamic developmnt" of the country in the past 30 years, both in corporate investments and in­creased job opportunities. 
Phelan hopes that "Trading Post No. 6" will become as special a part of Notre Dame as it was a part of the Stock Exchange. Phelan also expressed gratitude that "we (the University) had the foresight to in­stall the Trading Post and install Moses one floor below." 
Commenting on the recent bull­ish activities on the Market, Phelan sees the flurry of trading as a "harvest of spring." Phelan pointed out that experts say the nation has witnessed the bottoming out of the recession, with interest rates gradually dropping and controls easing up. The recent August­September peak has heen inter­preted as good news hy those who are currently unemployed, said Phelan, and he hopes that the "spring harvest" has not ripened too soon. 
Thomas Coleman, a I956 graduate of the University and a cur­rent member of the Exchange, provided the funds needed to refur­bish the Post and to transport it to the University. 
Coleman, who is a current mem­

ber of the ND College of Business 
Administration Advisory Council, 
expressed satisfaction at being able 
to aid in providing a part of history 
for the University. 
Also speaking at the ceremony 

was Professor Edward Trubac, chair­
man of the Department of Finance and Business Economics. Trubac, a native New Yorker, was pleased with the adde.d touch of New York, and also by the fact that the "Stock Exchange represents tradi­tion .. .like here at Notre Dame." 
Trubac expressed surprise at the contrast of environments apparent in the harried world of the Stock Ex­change and the relative calm of the library. He revealed a bit ofpersonal disappointment at the location of the Trading Post, preferring that it be placed in the business building. 
Dean Frank Reilly, of the College ofBusiness Administration, offered a differing opinion when he said the "business building is really no place to put a magnificent piece and give it the attention it deserves." He added that the Trading Post deserves "maximum exposure," such as it will receive in the library. 
The Master ofCeremonies Robert Miller, director of university libraries, revealed that he was originally skeptical of the presence of the Trading Post, but is now "excited" hy its unique history. 
Kathryn Findling, president of the Finance Club, also present at the ceremony, said she was grateful to Phelan and Coleman for the Trading Post because it provides a under­standing of history for the students. 
"Trading Post No. 6" is one of seven posts currently renovated and on display at institutions throughout the United States. Two others are located at the Smithsonian Institute in Washington and Harvard Univer­sity. 



New York mayor loses inprimaries 
NEW YORK (AP)-Shunning the hrash, wisecracking style that helped make him a national figure, Mayor Edward Koch reflected yes­terday on his startling loss in the primary race for governor and con­cluded, "I tried my hestand my hest wasn't good enough." 
''I'm not going to engage in Friday­morning quarterbacking," the characteristically soft-spoken Koch said as he faced reporters in City Hall. About 50 municipal workers applauded as he entered. 
Although the 5..,-year-old mayor would not speculate on why he lost to Lieutenant Governor Mario Cuomo in the Democratic primary, his campaign workers did. Speaking privately, aides said they had-overes­timated the mayor's strength in the city, which he carried hy a fraction ofa point, not the I 0 points they had expected. 
They also speculated that the mas­sacre of Palestinian women and children in Beirut had a negative ef­fect on Koch, who is Jewish and has heen an outspoken supporter of Is­rael and its invasion of Lebanon. 
The advisers said a Playboy magazine interview in which Koch made disparaging remarks about rural and suburban life probably had little effect. 
They said Koch carried the subur­ban counties, as expected, and lost as expected in more rural areas. What the advisers were at a loss to explain was the mayor's narrow margin ofvictory in New York City.· 
The mayor, who wa'i re-elected with :s percent of the vote in I9Hl, got a hare 50 percent of the vote here in the governor's race. 
Koch, who had not lost an elec­tion since he was defeated in a state Assembly bid .20 years ago, wa~ rumored to have had thoughts ahout a vice-presidential hid in I9H4 ­had he made it to the governor's mansion in Albany. 
•
Koch refused to speculate about his future yesterday. ''I'm the mayor for the balance of three years and that's enough," he said. 
He offered his support to Cuomo, whom he heat in the I977 mayoral race, and said he would now con­centrate on running the nation's lar­gest city. 
"I want to make it very clear," Koch said. "I am not depressed." 
Cuomo took 670,804 votes, or 53 percent, to 5~7,7SI, or 47 percent, for Koch. 
In the Republican race, mil­lionaire businessman Lewis Lehrman swainpe(J former U.S. At­torney Paul Curran nearly 4-1, 45I,086 vot~s to 109,964. 
In other statewide races, U.S. Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan easily won renomination and will be opposed by Assemblywoman Florence Sullivan, who won a three­way Republican primary. 
.. 


--~-~----~-~--------~ ~ ---~--


NewsBrieb 
lh 7be (Jhsen•er and The Associated Press 
Actor Robin WiJHams,star of"The World Accord­ing to Garp" and television's "Mork and Mindy," and his wife, dancer Valerie Velardi, are expecting a baby about next March, according to a spokeswoman. The couple is relaxing at their ranch in the Napa Valley in Northern California before Williams goes back on the road for a series of nightclub engagements, said the press agent, who asked not to be identified. The couple has been married 3 years. "They waited this long to have a baby because Robin felt that while he was doing the series 'Mork and Mindy,' he would be unable to give the attention he should to Valerie and a baby,'' the spokes­woman said. The television comedy series was canceled by ABC, and Williams' movie, "The World According to Garp," came out July 23. The movie had grossed !26 million as of last week, the spokes­woman said. -AP 
AlmOSt One year after the assassination of President Anwar Sadat ofEgypt, his wife,Jihan, says she is still trying to put her life back together. She is studying and writing, walking, scuba diving and swimming in an effort to keep herself occupied, she said in an interview published yesterday in London'sDaily Express. In what is believed to be the first such interview she has given since her hus­band's death, she says, "It is in the morning when I miss him most of all." "To wake up alone is dreadful. That was our special time to talk. Then, and just before we went to sleep," Mrs. Sadat told Express reporter Catherine Olsen in the family's sun drenched summer home in Alexandria. Sadat, who made his historic peace mission to Jerusalem in 1977, was gunned down on October 6, 1981, during a military parade in Cairo. -AP 
Th.e body of a truck driver from Illinois was found early yesterday lying beside his rig along Interstate 74 about five miles west of Shelbyville in central Indiana, a spokesman for the Indiana State Police said. Police identified the man as Gary D. Ellison, 37, of Mowequa, Ill. Authorities ruled that Ellison choked to death follow· ing an asthma attack, Lt. Richard Jones said. A passerby reported seeing the man at 7:SO a.m., Jones added. -AP 
Th.e OWner Of a nightclubin San Antonio, Texas, 
where numerous country·western stars got their starts was found slain in her fashionable home south of the city. Her caretaker also had een killed. Investigators said Bobbie Barker, 6S, owner of the Farmer's Daughter dance hall, and Frances Machado, 6S, who lived in a mobile home with her husband on Ms. Barker's 68-acre property, were found dead Thursday night by Mrs. Machado's hus­band, Ancencio. Ms. Barker, a longtime friend of the late entertainer Bob Wills and other country performers, had been stabbed numerous times. Mrs. Machado was shot from close range, officers said. Bexar County Sheriffs Lieutenant Ray Rogers said the house had been ransacked. Ms. Barker was reported to have kept large sums ofcash and expensive jewelry in her home. -AP 
A Michigan State University student is 
giving up his fight against the fraternity that ousted him for homdsexuality. John Nowak, 20, of Westland, president of MSU's Lesbian/Gay Council, had been considering court action after Uni­versity President Cecil Mackey upheld his suspension from Delta Sigma Phi. Nowak said Thursday he decided to drop the issue after investigating his legal options and talking with fraternity members. "People may criticize me for not taking my case to court, but they are not in my shoes," said Nowak "I think I had a strong case, hut I still had to consider my family. I don't want to hurt or upset my family any more." -AP 
Californiawill havea garbage crisis by 1987. when half of the state's dumps will fill up, a state agency warns. "The garbage crisis will cost each California family hundreds, if not thousands, of dollars in the next decade," and cut yearly disposal capacity by 20 million tons, says Terry Trumbull, head of the Solid Waste Management Board. Alternatives to landfills, such as recy· cling, composts and "waste·to-energy" systems must be developed to offset dump shutdowns, the agency recommended in a report released Thursday. California now has the capacity to dispose of.H.S million tons ofsolid waste a year in 3S61andfills, the report said. The' board warned that Southern California is losing landfill space at an "astonishing rate." It said S8 percent of the state's garbage is generated in Southern California -19.1 million tons yearly. -AP 
Th.e United States and Zimbabwe yesterday signed agreements worth the equivalent of S"".4 million for family planning and for sugar refining projects. The U.S. Embassy said $6.9 million was granted to the state·backed Child Spacing and Fertility Associa· tion and SS24,000 to a project to help make fuel from sugar. Since Zimbabwe's independence from Britain in 1980, the United States has provided it with S193 million in aid. -AP 
Th.e world recession has apparently not affected the Tahiti tourism industry, according to figures released Thursday by the Tahiti Tourist Development Board. The board said tourism was up nearly 30 percent for the first eight months of this year and that a monthly record of 11, S02 visitors was set in July. The number ofvisitors in August was down about 14 percent, however, the board said. The United States and Australia remain the major year·round sources oftourists, officials said. -AP 
Cloudy today and cooler with a 30 percent chance of light showers. Highs in upper SO's to near 60. Mostly cloudy tonight and continued cool. Lows in upper 40's to near SO. Tomorrow, par· tial clearing. Highs in upper 60's. -AP 
!._...._...,___.___~_ -------------------' 
Saturday, September 25, 1982 -page 4 

Revenge 
Will Be 


Sweet 
The Observer 
·l'he Ob~ver 
lh•.,Jglll:r/Jiur I c l.•pttt /J(•sigll lsSIS(W/( I 1111111~ l1gl-r. 
1(1111111\ lnut.lll 

I.UJ'OIII \lc~/.1 I >ulo..,,nlr' .trHI I Jodo.., 1_1'/}('."t'/ler.,· Part~ Allllll.ll"' \ell'S l:"tlilur I t-rn·t hJ..,Illnt· ( ufJ)' l:tli/fn J·ox~ I >J.ult· Features I ('/'OU/ \loo'tt'·I!H.'t.'l Fclifrlria/s l.til'uUI l'lgt.:r.! \fi(Jr/s i ofJI' /:'c/ilur Pcngwn () ( OIIIH•r l1pisl h.o,tla Bro\\ 11 \IJIJal·l:ditur (,rotl'(,ordl.i 
ld /Jt•sign . <.rlll <.reg PhnlogrtlfJher l..tugh111g il~t:ll:l h..l!ll' (,uest.lfJ/Jt'tO'tlll<·es /ookl't'pt·r < l11p 
\lonh. lh.tnthe Hat. '''onl'd l>:ull·mg Bc.:ar'. h.anga l)u:rdn· ftHJ. lb~ -\tH•'rc a hl'a:-.1. 1.;1 l'onuc:. <.•tlllorm.l '( oon 
pigeuusj/tJd,• in st'(I'«'Ly. tiiUI btilll.'i/ers (UI'II fill /rt'lfllt'lllft' 
The Observer 1 USPS 598 9201 IS Published Monday through Fnday dnd on horne football Saturdays except dur1ng exam and vacation per1ods The Observer 1s published by the stunenb of Notre Dame and Samt Mary s Col tege Subscnpttons may be purchased for $25 per year t$15 per sernesterJ by wnttng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a 'nernber of The Associated Press All repruductton nghls are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d ill Notre Dame lndlani\46556 
....___________ 
cii/WIIg /be Sjli'llkl'I'S Ill I11SI night's pep ruff)' ll'l'l'<' lleatl Coucb (r"eiT)' Fuusl. tlllll ..J:;sisllllll Co11cbes llri1111 /lou/lie 1111tl To111/ ich/enbel:r.:. Star Fulllwei.! !.tilT)' .lloriorlr osl.!ed lhej{111s to lmislerous/)' SlljJj)()r/tbe Irish in todiiJ's go111e. (/'bolos IJJ' (,"/e/111 1\ml£'J 

r-~~·~:~:~:~:m:m:~::~:~=~:~:~:~:~;~:~:~:~:~:~:7:7-7:~
1 _Spaulding Campground ISIS)illi :UlS'¥l £!'¥''. ~ 
1 The closest Campground to Notre Dame I 2305 Bell Rd. Niles, Mich. 49120 1 616 684-1393 
I Modern facilities Near South Bend 
l;~:iiiiiiw~:~~;~:~w~'-:iiiiii=iiiiit:iiiiii;~:~~w:~~:~;~:~:;i;i;i·i;i;ij:d 

We look forward to serving you again 
Vtc & Donna Giannetto 
0 PtN Sundays If to 7 p.m. Monday thru Thursday If to 1and 4to 10. Friday If to 1 CLOSED Friday Evenings· REOPtN 111 Hour after Sunset SATURDAY 
Phone 255-8089 Corner of 13th and Spring. Mishawaka 


~---~ -------------~­


The Observer 
Refugee camp 



Massacre death toll reaches 597 
BEIRl T. LEBA:--;o:-.: ( AP)-Relief workt·r~ uncov1.T<:d a ncw mass gravc of I') hodic~ yest<:rday, and Lchanon·~ chid pro~ccutor reportcd a death toll of at lea~t 59­from the rdugee camp massacres ­douhk thc numbcr contlrmed bv tht· Red Cros~. . 
An advance unit of 550 french paratroopers and infantrvmen came ashore ITSt<:rday, vangu~rd ofa li.S.­french-Italian force chargcd with trying to stop Bcirut's bloodshed. l'.S. Marines werc to follow this weekend_ 
Israeli troops continued to come undcr sporadic sniper tire as they gradually withdrew from hostile :\loslem west Beirut. 
Ont: Israeli officer was killed and three other braeli soldiers were wounded yesterday when uniden­tified gunmen shot at them on busv Hamra Street as they drank cofti:e ;t a sidewalk cati:, Lebanese state television reported. 
In Israel, Prime Minister Menac­hem Begin's government asked the Israeli chiefjustice to lead an inquiry into Israeli conduct during last week's massacre of civilians at two 
Purdue rates near top in mathematics, science 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Purdue University was among the nation's major research campuses to get high ratings in a report judging the schools' scholastic quality of math and science departments. 
The California Institute of Tech­nology was ranked No. I, either alone or with others, in three of six fields based on professors' .ratings of the institutions' "scholarly quality." 
Porter E. Coggeshall of the Na­tional Research Council, who was staff director for the study, said Purdue ranked in the top I 0 in ar­ticles published in scientific journals regarding chemistry, mathematics and statistics-biostatistics. 
Purdue also rated in the top ofthe nation's universities for the scholar­ly quality ofits statistics-biostatistics program, the study showed. 
The evaluations were based on a survey of I, I 55 math and science professors, or about 8 percent of all 
U.S. professors in those fields. 
Two other Golden State schools, the University ofCalifornia-Berkeley and Stanford, each held two No. I rankings, as did the nation's oldest 
university, Harvard. 
In addition to Harvard, the Ea.~t Coast was represented by Princeton, ranked No. I in mathematics, and the ,\ta.~sachusetts Institute of Tech­nology, which shared top hilling in chemistry. 
CIT led the pack in geosciences, shared top billing with Harvard in physics and w;L~ in a four-way tie for tlrst in chemistry with Berkeley, Harvard and !\liT 
Stanford was tops in computer Pakstinian refugee camps hcrc_ 
The ju~tice, Yitzhak 1\.ahan, refuscd to consider thc reque~t im­mcdiately. hecau~e his court ha~ before it two privatc petitions on whether to order a full judicial in­quiry into the Beirut bloodbath_ 
Begin's political opponent~ rejected the proposed investigation as insufficient. since Kahan would not have subpoena powcr or the power to jail perjurors. as in a nor­mal judicial inquiry_ 
Israeli newspapcr~ questioned anew the ofticial Israeli version of events surrounding the refugee camp slaughter, which has been blamed on Lebanese Christian militiamen. 
The papers said Israeli comman­ders in Beirut knew by II p.m. Thursday, September 16-the tirst day of the ma.~sacre, that civilians were being killed. Israeli Deli:nse Minister Ariel Sharon has said the Is­raelis did not know the killings were going on until the next day, after which the Israelis intervened. 
Thejerusalem Post reported that the Israeli commander in Beirut received a message from a Christian Phalange leader in one ofthe camps, 
sciences and shared the No. 1 place in statistics-biostatistics with Berkeley. 
On a separate ranking on the es­timated influence of articles in scientific journals attributed to the colleges' graduate programs in 1978-79, Berkeley was No. 1 in mathematics and statistics; MIT in physics; UCLA in geosciences; the University of Wisconsin in chemistry and the University of Illinois-Urbana-Champaign in com­puter sciences. 
The rankings were among 16 separate measures produced in a two-year, 5500,000 study published Thursday with the imprimatur of four prestigious academic groups, the American Council of Learned Societies, the American Council on Education, the Social Services Research Council and the National Research Council. 
It was funded by the Mellon, Ford and Sloan foundations, the National Institutes of Health, the National Science Foundation and the Nation­al Academy ofSciences. 


Chatilla, that said, 'Tntil now ~00 ci1·ilians and terrorists have bt:en killed_" 
:-.haron has acknowledged that ls­racli forccs hclped plan last week's Phalangist assault on the camps and provided some support, hut ht: says the\· never expected a slaughtt:r of civilians. 
The mass grave unearthed yester­day was discovered near the Chatilia camp. Jean-Jacques Kurz, an Interna­tional Red Cross spokesman, said the 
I') victims wt:re all members of the same family. A relative said the bodies had been dumped by a bul­ldozer into a crater left by an Israeli bomb, then covered over. 
This brought to ~I~ the total number of bodies reported found by Red Cross teams searching piles of rubble at the Sabra and Chatilla camps. 
Lebanesc Prosecutor General Camille <ieagea, who is heading an investigation of the killings, said ';9-, bodies had been discovered thus far, however, and more than 2,000 people were missing. 
He said his tigures were compiled from all rclief agencies involved in the recovery operation. Kurz has said some refugees removed relatives' bodies before Red Cross workers arrived at the camps, and civil deti:nse workers had dug up other bodies. 
Relief workers say the exact num­ber of deaths may never he known since the mass graves believed dug by Christian militiamen have been ditlicult to tind. 
The slaughter prompted the Lebanese government to request the return of french, Italian and li.S. troops -the con'iponents of the peace-keeping ti>rce that oversaw the evacuation of Palestine Libera­tion Organization guerrillas from west Beirut Iasr month. 
The new peacekeeping force is expected to remain until the Lebanese authorities can assume to­tal control ofthe nation's capiral. 
The french unit that arrived early 
yesterday  will  he  joined by  600  
other  French  troops,  HOO  l'.S.  
.\larines  and  I,000  Italian  in­ 
fantrymen.  

The Israeli command, which sent its forces into west Beirut last week after the assassination of Lebanese President-elect Bashir <,;emayel, says it is thinning out its troop presence there and turning evacuatcd areas over to the Lebanese army. 
Israel's state radio yesterday said all Israeli forces will he out of west Beirut by tomorrow. 

Scujj7es !Jreak out hetu•een members ofthe extreme-rightjeu•ish nmt'l!/111!111 "HE'IAR" and pro-Palestinitms during a zionist demonstmtion heltl near fbi! PI.O headquarters in Paris recent(y. Sel'emf people //'ere slight~)' injured. (.-IP Photo) 





r.2~!,!Mf,~L ~ 
SZECHUAII -CAIITDNESE-MIE/llt:AII 

CHUCK WHITE 
* *
At The Piano Bar 
See Chuck Ever~ Tues. thru Sat. 
8:00 p.m.-1:00 a.m .....Enjoy Life! 
•Dancing• Drinks• Ding.er 
. • Hospitai!Jy• ReasoQa!Me Prices 
HOURS: Mon.·Thur 11:30a.m.·10:00p.m. "rL & SaL 11:30 a_m.-11:00 p_m_ Sun_ & Holidays 4 p.m.-9:00 p_m. 
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK 
130 DIXIE HWY. SDUTH SOUTH BEND(Roseland) 
Open 'til 3Gm 

·-----------­
----------·-· ------------------­

The Observer Saturday, September 25, 1982 -page 6 

FetKhers ji·om Bremen lligh School in .Hit/lot­hian, Ill., a conununity .!'i miles soutbu•est of 
Hondurian officials predict siege end 
SAN PEDRO SULA, HONDURAS Adolfo Alfary, Treasury Minister Ar­Ia groups operating in Honduras. (AP)-Government officials yester­turo Corleto Moreira and Central There has been speculation that the day predicted the week-long leftist Bank President Gonzalo Carias I 0 guerrillas would he granted free siege of the Chamber of Commerce Pineda were among the remaining passage out of the country in return building is near an end, but would captives as was Rafael Pastor Zayala, for releasing their remaining not discuss details of negotiations president of the National Industrial prisoners. with the guerrillas who hold 39 Association. Presidential spokesman Amilcar hostages. "We have more faith to say now Santamaria said negottattons were 
The guerrillas, claiming to be that it is coming to an end," said a going well and that the terrorists members ofthe Cinchonero Popular well-placed government official, were showing flexibility in the 
Liberation Movement, released an­speaking to reporters Thursday demand that 60 political prisoners other group of 20 hostages on night on condition his name not he he released. Honduras says there arc Thursday night, cutting the number used. no political prisoners in the country, of business leaders and others The government has not released the poorest in Central America. 
believed held to 39. any details of its negotiations with Santamaria would not give details 
Economy Minister Gustavo the Cinchoneros, one offour guerril-on the talks. 
Soviet Catholic Church denounced by newspaper 
MOSCOW ( AP) -A Communist One diplomat said he could not Party newspaper in an area border­recall a similar attack on the Roman ing Poland has sharply denounced Catholic church inside: the Soviet 
the Soviet Catholic church, signall­Union during the recent past. ing increased Kremlin concern that Polish Catholicism may spill across The majority ofthe Soviet Union's the border. estimated 3 million to 4 million Cat­
An article, prominently displayed holics live in Lithuania, Latvia and in in the September I H edition of the western Byelorussia, near the Polish Sovetskaya Byelorussia (Soviet border. An underground Catholic White Russia) and seen in Moscow movement operates in the region in yesterday, accused church activists addition to the official church and priests in the region of violating presence there. Soviet religious laws on instructions from Western religious circles, However, the article strongly sug­including Vatican Radio. gested that local ofilcials looked the 
It also called on local authorities othc:r way as priests and religious ac­to impose harsher sentences on tivists violated Soviet religious laws such "extremists." hy collecting building materials for 
The article did not specifically new churches, establishing religious mention developments in Poland, schools for children and soliciting but focused almost exclusively on money at believers' homes. what it called violations of religious laws in towns and villages near the 
One diplomat said the article was Soviet-Polish 'border -places that "practically a~king for people to he were part of Poland before 19.W. 
arrested. It kept talking about viola­It also was published just days tions ofthe. law, over and over again,before the nation's most aut­inviting steps to he taken... 
horitative newspaper, Praz,da, carried a report from Poland criticiz­ing behavior ofPolish bishops. "I can The attack was seen as another 
hardly not draw the Polish connec­signal that Soviet authorities are tion," said one Western diplomat, cracking down on religious activists who found a direct link between the who refuse to comply with stringent two articles. "The coincidence is too laws placing the church under state 
great." control. 
<iovernment-controlled Soviet media have repeatedly charged that A directive said to have been the Polish Roman Catholic church is secretly adopted at the 19!-1 I Soviet 
trying to undermine the Communist Communist Party Congre~~. repor­government in Poland, and have tedly ordered eradication of all un­accu~ed Polbh church ofticials of registered Christian congregations inciting street protesh hy member~ in the Soviet l'nion. The directive of the suspended independent trade was thought to have: been aimed at union SolidaritY The union wa~ fundamentalist prote~tant sect~. 
~u~pended when the goverment such a~ l'enteco~tali~t~. hut abo decreed martial law December I-~-could he u~nl again~t Catholic ac­19!-1 I. tivht~. 



Mike Shields 
Will autograph his book Saturday September 25th 10:00 -11:30 a.m. 
2nd Floor Book Department 
HAMMES :NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
... -­
••. !"'., 



~~-­

Saturday, September 25, 1982 page 7

The Observer 


Ne-w tax la-ws affect Medicare 
Ry LOUISE COOK 
.·lssocialetl Press \.f'riter 
Oldc:r Amc:ricans will face: highn hc:alth~carc: hills as a rc:sult of infla­tion and the: rc:cc:ntly passc:d tax in­crc:asc:. 
\lost of the: attc:ntion ti>eusc:d on the 191-12 Tax Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act has cc:ntered on the: tax incrc:ases in the law. The mt·asurt· also includes S I ';.2 billion in spending cuts ovn thrc:c: yc:ars and the biggest chunk of the: cuts af. fc:cts the Mc:dicarc: program. 
\ledicare is the: federal govern­mc:nt's health insurance plan for people: 65 or ovc:r. It alSo covc:rs pc:oplc: with permanent kidnc:y failure: and certain other disabled in­dividuals. 
Studies by public and private: groups have: shown that \kdicarc: generally pays somewhere in the range of -tO percent of the health­care expensc:s for the: c:lderly. 
There arc: two sections to 
\lcdicare -part A. which provides 
hospital insurance:. and Part B li>r mc:dical covc:ragc:. 
Om· is eligible for hospital in­surance at age: 6'; if he has worked long c:nough to he: imured under So­cial Security or the railroad retire­mc:nt systc:m or if hc: is c:ntitled to monthly Social Sc:curity or railroad retirc:ment hc:nc:tlts. He also is eligible under spc:cial conditions if disahlc:d or suffc:ring from kidnev failure. If eligibility standards ;.i't mt·t thc:re arc: no monti · _1 premiums. 
Ifone does not mc:c:t thc: eligihilll) standards, hut ·still wants to sign up for hospital insurancc:. a monthly prc:mium must he paid..As ofJuly I, 191-12, the: prc:mium is s 115 a month. up from SH9 during ~he prc:vious yc:ar. Anothc:r incrc:asc: -not vc:t dc:terminc:d. hut linkc:d to intlation -is c:xpc:ctc:d nc:xtJuly I. 
Part B -which dc:als with mc:di­cal covc:rage -carric:s a monthly premium. It is this prc:mium that is incrc:asing as a rc:sult of the: budgc:t cub indudnl in the: tax hill. The: monthlv prc:mium. now S 12.20, will 

Woolco stores shut; 25 , 000 workers laid oft 
:-.JEW YORK (AP) -FW. Wool­worth. the: nation's fourth-largc:st rc:taikr. said yc:stc:rday that it will close: its .'d6 Wooko discount storc:s in the l'nitc:d Statc:s and lay otf about 25.000 workc:rs next yc:ar. 
The: company, which has laggc:d 

he:hind the pertiJrmancc: of its com­
pc:titors in in recc:nt yc:ars. citc:d 
Wooko's pc:rsistc:nt losses for the: 
dc:cision to close:. Woolworth's has 
l·tO.OOO employc:c:s. 
The move: was a "very dramatic change: in dirc:ction," said Edward Wellc:r. a rc:tail analyst with the: Wall Strc:c:t tirm E.F. Hutton. llc: s;1id the company had invc:stc:d "a lot oftime:, c:ffort. monc:y and pc:oplc in trying to turn the: division around." 
Wooko storc:s arc: primarily in the: South and Central statc:s. Wool­
worth said the: successful Canadian 
Wooko chain will nm he atfc:cted. 
Edward F. (;ihhons. chairman of 

Woolworth, said the: company 
would continue to opc:ratc: its 1.500 
Woolworth gc:nc:ral mc:rchandisc: storc:s. Kinney Shoc:s, the nation's l:1rgc:st shoc:store chain, and sc:vc:ral specialty apparel chains. 
Woolworth announced earlier in the wc:ek that it was discussing the: possible sale of its ';2.6 percent in­tc:rest in F. W. Woolworth PLC, its British subsidiary. It lost S<;. <; mil­lion in the tirst half of this year. 
Woolworth and S.S. Kresge Co., the discount stort· pionec:r. c:x­pandc:d into the suhurhs in the 1960s. Kresge's K-mart was so suc­cessful the company name: was changc:d'to K-mart in 19'"'"'. 
Analysts attribute: K-mart's succc:ss to management's l'ompkte concentration on the c:ffort, while Woolworth's considered Wooko to he: hut onc: of its specialty opera­tions. K-mart, with 1.900 stores. is the nation's second-largest retailer, behind Sears, Roebuck & Co. JC. Pc:nney & Co. is :\io. 5. 

Burger King Whopper ads draw McDonald's lawsuit 
.\liA\11 (AP)-Big \lac took the Whopper to federal court here: yc:s­tc:rday to try to han television com­mc:rcials that delve: into a sizzling comparison of how hamhurgc:rs arc 
cooked  at  .\h:Donald's and  Burgc:r  
King.  
\kDonald's  <:orporation  sought  

an injutKtion to block Burgcr King from launching a S20 million telc:vi­sion advertising campaign on .\lon­dav. The: issue: boils down to the: quc:stion of whethc:r Big \lacs arc fric:d or grillc:d. 
Are Big 111acs fried or grilled? 
The: suit attacks the ads which say a l"UstonH:r surn:y condudes people: prekr tht· tastt' of Buq~t'r Kin!-( ham, hur~c:r~ to thost' of .\kDonal<.l's or 
Wendy's  Old  fashion(:d  ltamhu(­ 
).\t'rs.  
AI  stakt'  in  tht'  ad  campaign  is  

Amerka·~ multi-hillion-dollar hur­~t'-'r markt'&..\lcl>onah.rs. rhc nation's numhl·r on'-' hamhurgt'r 1.:hain. raked in s~ billion in revt'nues last yc:ar. while Burger King. the nation's num­ber two hamhurgn sdlt:r, totalc:d S2 .. ~ billion in rt'ct'ipb. 
llurgcr King wants to tdl millions ol customer that \lcDonald"s ham­
burgers  wc:igh  20  pt'rct'nt  It:~~  
heliJrt: cooking than  those sold  at  
Burger King.  

\lcDonald's say~ that is not trut· and contt'nds Burgc:r King is plan­ning to hroatkast "false descrip­tions. misreprc:st'ntations and omissions of material facts." 
"\X' hen it comt'~ to prott'cting our hard-t·arned rc:putation. you'll never see a white !lag flying ovc:r the gold­en arches." said \ld)onald's spokt's­man Bob Keyser in Chicago. 
A public relations man of \liami-hased Burgc:r King Corpora­tion, re!Ched at an advt'rtising meeting in i\lc:w York, dc:fc:nded tht' ads. 
"Evc:ry one of the assertions made: in tht' advt'rtisc:ments can he: suh­stantiatc:d," said John Weir. "The campaign will he launched as scht'duled." 
The controvc:rsy cc:n1c:rs on lhc: statemt'nt in the: ads that "consumc:rs prc:fc:r lht' taste of tlame-hroilc:d hamhurgt'rs on~r tht' frit'd hamhurgc:r St'rn:d at \1cl>onald's." 
\tcl>onald's claims its burgers are grilled. nor fried. 

go to S 15. -:'0 next July 1 and to 
SI<;_ 50 a year later. 
Both Parts A and Parts H of \1edicare include: "dc:ductihles" the minimum amount that must he paid by the: individual hdore .\kdicare henetlts may he takc:n. Thc:sc: deductihles have: been rising with the rising cost of living. 
Part A, ti>r example:, will aid in the: paymc:nt of up to 90 days' stay in any participating hospital pt'r hendit pc:riod. For the tirst 60 days. Medicare pays tiJr all covc:rc:d sc:rvices t'xn·pt the: tirst 5260 -a 556 incrc:asc: from tht' rate of last January 1. 
For the next 50 days. the: hospital pays only for those covered servicc:s hc:yond 56'; a day -an increast' of s 1-t from jan. 1. If hospitalization ex­tc:nds beyond 90 days, there are 60 "rc:serve" days that ont' is entitled to in his lifetime. In this case Medicare will pay lor covc:rc:d sc:rvice~ beyond s I 50 a day -an increase: of S2H from last January I. 
Thc:rc: is also a deductible: for Part H of \lc:dicare. The currc:nt ratt' is s-:o<;, up from 560 bdore January I, 191-12 
The: mt'dical insurance section pap HO pt'rcc:nt of "approvt'd charges" ti>r covc:rnl •st'rvicc:s. This amount is based on what is de.tlnc:d as "reasonablt: charges". 


3H' .\fieciol fJ/11 011 '' l'l'r)' exciting U'tlri/1·11/J j(n Z.Z.TofJ lll the ACC co/leer/ lost 11 ighl. ( l'hoto hr (, le1111 1\tiiiL') 


HEAR THE IRISH FIGHT ON MUTUAL RADIO 

Join Tony Roberts and AI Wester Saturday, September 25 as the "Fighting Irish" meet Purdu~ during the 15th consecutive season of national play-by-play broadcasts produced by Mutual Sports, radio's leader in sports broadcasting. 

MunJAL BROADCASilNG SYSfEMITTI 



Clearing the air through broadcast deregulation 
The following editorial is written by Mr. Martin Rubenstein. president and chief ex­ecutit•e ofMutual Hmotlcasting .\)•stem. Sen•­ing as chairman ofthe .VationalA.~.mciation of Hrotulcasters First Amendment Commit­lee, Mr. Rubenstein explains the nature and effects ofbroadcast tlere~ulatirm. 
Martin Rubenstein Obseruer Exclusive 
The Federal Communications Commis­sion's efti>rt to c:liminatc: the Fairnc:ss Doctrinc: and the political broadcasting provisions of the Communications Act is a stc:p toward providing the American people with an in­creasc:d numhc:r and divt:"rsity of opinion on important national is~ues. Congrc:ss should repeal tht· Fairnc:~s l>t)l'lrine. the: "t:tjual op­portunities" rc:quirc:mc:nts, thc: "reasonable: access" rt:"gulations and revamp the: Com­munications Act to grant hroadctst mc:dia the same First Amc:ndmt·nt rights and guarantt·c:s enjoyed hy nc:wspapt·r~. books and magazines. 
The Fairnc:ss Doctrine: impost's an unn·alis­tic c:ditorial strai!-,rhtjat·kc:t on hroadt:astn~. l'or t:"ach point of vic:w prt:"sc:ntt·tl. man\' varring poim~ of ,.it·w muM h4· gi,·c:n cx­posurt:". This not only robs a hroadcastc:r ofhh t:"ditorial discrc:tion. it impunc:s hi~ moti\'t"s. undc:rmint·s his prok~~ional intc:grity and ignores the: ttct that fair covc:ragc: is the: cor­ncrstonc: of prott:~sional journalism. .\lost hroadcastc:rs arc: go\'c:rnc:d hy a prott:ssional c:thic of htirnc:ss and ohjc:cti\'ity. While: our rt:"porting may not give c:ach story or each can­didate the samc: amount ofairtimc:. we: consis­tently prt:"sc:nt a balanced vic:w of all major public issuc:~. l 'nlikc: local nc:wspapc:rs. you will not lind a loctl T\' or radio station that doggedly maintains a particular idc:ological position on a varic:t\' of issue:~. 
lndc:c:d. the: Fairness Doct rinc's insistence: on exacting timc: l(>r opposing opinion~ has ht:"en countcrproducti\'c: in term~ of the: public dchatt· on important issues. Hathc:r than he hurtlc:nc:d with each and e\'c:ry nuance: of ea(:h and t'\'C:r~· is.,ue. hroadcastc:r.s han· shied away from contron·rsial and politictl manc:r~. Cowed by c:xcc:ssi\'e gon·rnmc:nt regulation, the: c:kctronic mc:dia ha\'e optnl t(Jr low-ke,· and often non-t·xi~tc:nt co\Trage of prc:s~ing public mattcrs. Thh situation not only denic:~ American~ a ,·aric:ty ofopinions. it destroy~ the noble: yet indk·nive nmcc:pt that is the: rationak ti1r the: Fairnc:s~ Donrint·. 
The "equal opportunities" rc:tjuiremc:nts mean that broadcasters mu~t grant l'tjual tinll' to appear 10 all political COHH.Iidatt·~ t(>r a par­ticular oftict·. Imposing the equal oppor­tunities ruk corrupts the: editorial procc:s~. In an c:lt:ction campaign. tH·wspapers arc: not re­quirc:d hy the go\'c:rnmc:nt to grant equal front-page: co\'c:ragc: 10 all candidates t(>r oftkc:. Some: candidates r;uc: a phow and covc:ragc: on pagc: one:. others rate: a small noticc: on page: tift\'. In tht· print mnlia. c:ditors. not go\'ernmt·nt bureaucrats. makt· the: dt:dsion~. 
It i~ hard to imagine that if thc:re WlTl' c:kl'lronic nH·di;t at tht· tinll· of the: l'ir.,t Amendment, that our Founding Fatlll'r~ would han· c:xdudt·d broadcast journali~m from its protc:l'lion. For mo~t American~ today, tht· pre~~ h radio and tdt·,·ision. 
Yet under ~n:tion 51"i of the: Communit·a· lions Act. broadctMt-rs must grant C:tjual accc:s~ to all minority. fringt· and splinter can· 
spc:n:h and t.·ditorial judgement. 
Similarly, tht· guiddint· that dc:mands "rc:asonahlc: accc:ss" to the mc:dia lw h:dnal candidatc:s injt·t·ts tht· go\'l'rnmt·m· into an ] arc:a of editorial discretion which is unfc:t-' tc:red in othc:r mc:dia. :'lio fedc:ral law rt·tjuirt·~ magazines to grant space: in its pages to fedc:ral candidatc:s. yc:t T\' and radio must not only surrender c:ditor;tl discrt·tion. thc:y must also suhjc:ct tht·msdn·s to unwarrt·ntt·d regula­tion in an art·a -CO\Trage of thc: political process -which is inht·remly ~c:nsitin· and suhjc:ct to char~t·s of a bust·. 
The end rt·sult is 1hat broadca~tc:rs cannot 

Tbe Obrerr•er is an independent newspaper publtshed by the ~tudents of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Collc:gc. It does not nt"lcs~arily rcfled the policies of the administration of eithc:r institution. The nL"WS ts report: eJ as a(curately and as objt"ltively as possible. Editorials reprc:sent the op1n10n ot a maJority of the Editorial Board. Co.nmcntancs, opinions anJ letters arc the \'iews of their authors. Column space is available to all membc:rs ot the communtty, and tl1c frre expression of varying opinwns on campu), through l.rtter~. i> emounged. 
P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame, IN -t6SS6 (219) H9-S505 


-·~ ... -,iii··.--· . 
~ay what thc:y want 10 ~a' and ha\'c: man~ r<:a.,on., not to inn·~rigatc. rc:port or COHT im portant public bsuc:~. The: l'airnc:~~ Don rinc: and other nohk-~ounding principle~ ha\'c: t-reated among broadcasters a fi:ar of con­tro\'c:r~y. We worry about c:H·n comnH·rcia!. C:\'c:ry public sc:r\'icc: announlTmt·nt and t·,·c:ry nl·ws. public atbirs or int(lfltlation program which might merit a response:. \X'c: worry anytimt· any candidate: is on tht· air. and we: nt·cc:~sarily t-rr on the: side: of sakt\·. In the: current t·nvironmc:nt, broadcasters could not c:\'c:n air an old Honald l{c:agan nw,·ic: during tht· laM dection without kar of an t'tjual op­portunity obligation. 
E\'c:n in in~tancc:s whc:re a hroadca~ter ~n·k~ to c:xc:rcisc: his right of sl'if-c:xprt·~sion by endorsing a particular candidate:, hi~ thun­der and hi~ point of \'it·w art· undercut by go\'crnmc:nt mandate. The political nlitorialit.ing ruk rt'tjuires 1hat a broadcaster must giH' notice and an opportunity to respond to all cantlidatt·s for oftke when he: t·ndorses a ctnditlatt' for that particular oftitT. .\;o other mc:tlia ;tH' _,o cuckolded lw tht· go\Trnmt·nt..\lust a nc:wspapt-r notify and givt· space: to those ctnditlatt·s it oppost·s~ Art· magazint·s required to maJ,;c: room for tht· opinions candidatt·s that run countt·r to the magazint·"s political kanings' \\In then must the owt-r~ ofradio and tde\·isioil station~ han· 
their opinions and prc:krt·nn·s undercut or didatc:s mtTting go\'l'rnmc:nt-imposc:d hamstrung' c:ligihility rc:quirc:mc:nts. The: rc:quirc:mc:nt c:liminatc:s lw tiat hroadcastn~· rights to frc:c: I. 
Thc: concept that undngird~ the~e op­prt:ssin· ;tntlcountt:rproductiH· rt·gulations is tht· outdated notion that tht·rt· are too kv. broadcast outlc:ts l(>r news and intl>rmation and tht·rd(>rt• must he ctr<"fllih· <'<H1lrollnl. Toda\'.tht· numherofradio and tde\'ision out­lc:ts .in most localitic:s outnumhc:r local newspaper~ and magazines. In the: nation·~ 
Capital. we han· only two dail~ newspapers with somt·what consistent nlitorial points of \'ic:w -two daily print 't·hick~ for new~ and information in contrast to mort· than 2"i radio and l) tc:levision signals. not to mc:ntion an iiKrt·asing numht·r ofcable: channds a\'ailahk to Washington arct rc:sidc:ms. In South Bend onc: daily newspaper sc:n'Cs an area 1hat boa~ts many radio and tc:lc:\'i~ion signals. 
Thc: publil' is mort: conn·rnnl. sophst­icatcd and appreciative ofqualit~ and tlirnes~ than anyone gi\'es thc:m crntit for. The pc:opk ofthc: l'nited Statt·s will c:xc:rl'i~t· their \'otc:~ in the: contc:xt ofthe: market plan· of ideas and. in doin~ so. pro,·idt· all the nc:cessan regulation that hroadcasu·r., nct:d. 
Broatkastt·rs at.T~·pt and nnhrace the no­tion that wt· ha\'c: an obligation to present programming "in thc: public interest." But. \H' hc:lic:ve that common ~t·nst·. proh:ssion.tl c:ditorial judgcmt·nt and puhlic prderenct· ­not gon-rnmem gohblnl\ gooh. -should lw the tinaI arbiters ofcontnll and ustt·. 


.,. ,,I 
I' 
II 
'I
}, 
1il 
\i 



P.O. Box Q 

Role of conscience 

Dear Editor, 
I am sorry to see that thc: writing stylc: of :\1ichad Monk has hec:n so dc:c:ply affc:cted by the Dartmouth Re1•ieu•. Thc:re is so much in his article: in Thursday's Obsen•er that nec:ds addressing, hut I will limit mysc:lf to the outstanding issue, that of Bc:njamin Sas­way's decision not to registc:r with thc: Sc:kctivc: Sc:rvicc:. 
·,\1y hllhc:r wa,, a military officer for morc: than thirty years, and I've: rarely met a tinc:r man. I think one: can in conscience: serve: in the: armc:d l(>rces; howc:vc:r. registration with the Selective: Sc:rvicc: is not just signing a "name to a blue and white card" anymore: than marriage: is the signing of a marriage certiticatc:. To say such a thing hc:lies linle knowledge: of the rotc: of conscit:"nce. We: have no higher guide: than consckncc:; to be 
consckntious is our tirst obligation. 
You obviously disagree: with Bc:njamin Sasway's decision. I do not. Rather than accusing him of"dabhling in hallucinogc:nic drugs" or of hl'ing "extrc:mc:ly stupid," wc: should congratulate him for his courage:. Hc: has stood up for what he hc:ld to hc: right. c:ven to the: point of going to jail. We should all hc: hlc:~sc:d with ~uch courage:. Hathc:r than hc:tray his conscic:ncc: which told him to do the: will of the: Fathc:r. Our Lord died at Homan hands. 
So ,\1r. ,\1onk, I both caution you to hc: mort: sensitive to the rotc: ofconscience and ask you to refrain from such rash j udgmc:nts. You would hc: doing your readc:rs a st:r\'icc. 
Sincerely, Hrother Henedict, O.S.H. 

Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief..... ........................Michael Monk Managing Editor................Ryan Ver Berkmoes Executit1e News Editor.........................Kelli Flint !iMC Executive Editor ... Margaret Fosmoe Sports Editor........................ ..........Chris Needles Editorials Editor.... .. .... Paul :\1cGinn Features Editor ................-................Tari Brown Photo Editor .... Rachel Blount 

Department Managers 
Business Manager.-......... ..........._.._..Tony Aiello Controller ... ........................................Eric Schulz 
Adr,ertising Manager ...  ...........Chris Owen  
Production Manager.....  ....... Maura :\1urphy  
Circulation Manager  .............. Ray lnglin  
.~)·stems Manager ..  .. ... Bruce Oakley  

Founded November 3, 1966 


. ~
~~~~=~~iiiiiiii~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiilii.a.;;iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii" --.. ·.. 


~----------------~~ ­




Aword to a fool 
D
ear Sir: point of burn-out. I appreciate your writing to ask me to talk to Ifvou wonder whv I'm writing this, it's because I'm vour son, Scott. He is, indeed, deeply grieved at your tryi~g w tell you, in~ personal way, that I understand decision to break up your marriage. His anger is natural. the need ofgetting out. After twenty-eight years of the He thinks he hates vou. The truth is, he loves you very ordained life, I could enjoy waking up on Sunday morn· much. He loves his.mother, too, and he feels caught in ing without being faced two or three times in the day the middle, as children often do in a divorce. I know you with the dutv ofbeing the chidcheerleader in a pep ral· approve ofhis taking his mother's part. As you point out, lv offaith. I ~ould iike to be free of the feeling of help· she's the one who needs the help, and what kind ofa l~ssness that comes when troubled Chrbtians ask t(>r 
boy would forsake his mother in her hour of need? cousel: "Late!\·, I've been plagued with temptations to kill mvsc:lf, and I was hoping, Father, you could tell me how t~ deal with them." I would like to answer a phone
Rev. Robert Griffin 
call at three o'clock in the morning, knowing it will be a wrong number, rather than a voice announcing: ''I'm having the most territic crisis offaith. I'm wondering ifl 
letters too. lonely god could come right ovt:r and talk about it now." I would prefer not getting the plaintive rambling letters that You mentioned vou wt:re afraid I would think you a 
begin: "You don't know me, but ...",with a case his· moral monster; bu~. up to this point, you have always tory, written in pencil, that it would take the staffat done the best you could for those you were responsible 
:\1enninger's to tlgure out. for. Now, with your fifty-tlfth birthday closing in, you 
The crisis comes, at tlfty-tlve, when more and more is felt some change in lifestyle was necessary, ifyou were 
asked ofvou and vou feel vou have less and less to give. going to survive in peace. ''I'm not trying to excuse or Whatev~r y~u att~mpt to do, some younger colleague is defend myself," you wrote, "hut I want you to under­
doing better. stand that I have not lost my mind, and I haven't given 
There's no way a priest can leave his duties without ~p my family to marry a chorus girl." 
hurting people. Any hope ofhappiness is contingent on You do not want w defend yourself, and I am not 
my use ofgrace to be as faithful as Ican. It is a sign ofage attempting to change your mind. As one niddle-aged 
to worn· ahout salvation, llut I have a feeling that it is guy to another, I do understand being tlfty-five. You've 
foreshadowed by the peace of mind I experience at the reached the point of thinking: ''I've paid my dues. Now 
end ofa day. Entertaining dark moods ofself pity, I I'm entitled to a better deal. All my life, I've taken care of 
know I have friends, with problems oftheir own, who other people. Now it's time to take care of myself." I 
worn· ahout me. I once attended the wake ofan elderly know the mood, because I've been there myself. 
actre~s. to which nohodv else came. I laid my rosary I bet you think priests never get tired ofwhat they're 
over her hands, so that she would seem less lonely in doing. Catholics look at their clergy, and think "They death. There, hut t(>r the grace of(;od, could be any per­have it made." It's as tiresome being a salesman of mys­
son who has declared himself independent of human tery as it si being a salesman ofmachinery. The competi· 
obligations. tion is as keen among clerics as it is among junior 
You told me vour ston·, and now I've told you mine. executives. Once upon a time, I think, before the I'm sorry you'r~ getting~ divorce. There must be a het· changes, it used w be easier. Prerequisities ofgracious­
ter wa,· Adivorce would make all of,·ou loser's. So ness came with getting old. No one talks any more of 
much p.ain to so many cannot he helpful. I.t must he a New Breed and Old Breed. That doesn't mean that if 
punishment, as well as a blessing, to have children who they catch you mumbling Latin, they won't judge you to 
care enough to weep over your decisions. It shouldn't be expendable. 
surprise you to hear that I am envious. Fifteen years ago, I remember with embarrassment, I 
I would not preach to you so directly, if I never attempted a metamorphosis. I bought a turtleneck 
preached to myself first. sweater and a coat of many colors. Hanging a cross 
Scott is talking of transferring to a school closer to around mv neck a Ia Daniel Berrigan, I wore my new 
home, to he near his family. Is this something you really livery to a·concert in Wa.~hington Hall. One ofthe older 
want him to do' Plea.~e tell me what Ishould say to him. prie;ts, on seeing me, asked: "What is Griffin trying to 
The following paragraph was cut before the letterprove?" It wa.~ a fair question. Later, when the question was mailed: "Would you take it amiss if I told you, from 
wa.~ repeated to me. and I understood myself as a pat· one old timer to another. that I'm on the verge of
hetic fat man trying to dress like a sport, I decided that considering you a damn fool' Damn h>Olishness, when
image is not something you grow into from the outside. 
vou're tlftv-tlve, comes with the territory; it's not a
I can imagine myself beginning over in a less lonely proud credential to have. It can cost you every blessing
life. I would like an occupation where I didn't have to asked for in the Nuptail Blessing: .\1ay you live togethertalk so much. A priest spends a lot oftime being per­
in peace to a ripe old age in the company offriend, with 
sua.~ive, defending God's honor. "The zeal ofthe Lord's 
children, who will console and comfort you . " 
house has eaten me up," Scripture says ofthe Lord's st:r· vant. When I wa.~ young, I prayed for such zeal. As I It's the kind of paragraph I wish someont: would grow older, I realize there's no sense in praying for the write to me, if I ever announced I wa.~ leaving. 

What's a tailgater? 
T
he ":\otre Dame-\lichigan game. invading the campus. hrtTZl' th~· tir~te\Tr under th~·lighb."lt The crowd ~l·attered in all direc I wondered if tho~~· were th~·tatl­soundnl kind of impo~ing to us tions, searching out old dorm gat~-r' last nighI and I hadn't madt· freshmen who had ne\Tr ex­room~. statue~ and souvenirs; dan­them. perienced an Irish foothall weekend. l'ing to the magical ching-ching of 
Iklinit~·J, untrue.
We. in our ignorance. had no idea of the ca.'h registers. Kodaks tlashed how d~·afening a pep rally could he. ~napshots ofeverything from the ~aturd:l\ at t p.m.. ~outh ()uad what ;1 "tailgat~·r'· was. or what :\otre Dome to Touchdown Jesus. A fillnl with snwk~· and people a~ 
couple of innocent student~ were ~t·parate booth' attempted to ~dl even blinded hy the tlashbulb~ a.' their bratwurst hdiHT thn burned.
Scott Williams 
they trudged wearily home from a Thn~· wa~ heatnl \Trbal competi­full dav ofclasses. tion in the fl'f\Tnt allempts to at· 
"FoiHoall ti:\-er" finally h~·gan at tract hu,ine~'­the pep rallv a~ a mass ofmTrhl'ated humanit\ wa., packed in~itll-the \lo' ing m cr to ( orlTil held. I 
Dam~.-, stadium looknllike on the O\ en-like ~tepan Ct·nter. ~\\Tating 
tinalh untll'r~wod what a tailgaterinside. Whaten-r our expectation~ hcavilv a~ thn 'elled thl'm~dves 
"a,_ II was a ma~s of Irish humanitv. 
w~·re. thev could not han· come 
hoar~~ man eif1;rll0 inspirt·the Irish eating. drinking. part\ ing wgether.
clost• 10 the real experience ofa as thn prq1arcd to "hunt \\'ol·
gridder~ on to victory.
:\otre Dame home football game. 
\Tfllles. 
I started 10 ~ense ~omething a 

Following a full hour of frenzied little bit different late Thursdav af­Tht·n Lune the big moment. the
~creammg at ~tepan, the pre-game tt-rnoon. when a small invasion of parties got inlO full swing. I could focal point ofthe wholl-\H'l'kl'lld­middle-aged nomads in green pants gametime at :\otre Daml'. In the
t\:d the exl·itement mounting. hut and vellow shirts began dri,·ing up in m\· own enthusiasm wa.' dampened midst of the ec,tatic ~creaming and ~ole~111 proces~ion. playing the tight with depr~·ssing thought~. I was \Try It-aping of fri~h fans. I began 10 un­
~ong on their car horns. conc~·rned that I might he missing a der,tand the euphoria ofa football I had to remind myself that thing~ tailgater. Whatever th;ll was. \HTk~·nd. It'~ not just a game: it'~ a wt·r~·n·t too different. I ~till had a g1gant1c celebration of :\otr~· Dam~·-Chemistn quiz on frida,-morning. Saturday morning I rose early 10 llo\\ mul·h more ordinarY could '~'l' the silent row' ofcars and trucks Thi~ "~Tk~·nd i~ going to h~· a lot tlungs ht·' on (;reen Field. lacing th~· stadium. d1llerent. I'll he expecting the Overnight. the l(>othall cult mul­saluting the Fighting Irish in 'olemn people 111 green p;ull~. the t:ulgater~ uplied t~·nlold. People were all over. unison. Placidlv theY slept. t1res and the 1\.odaks. One thing won't from w1ves and children to niece~ covered in gentk dew and ln'h tlag~ h~· different. The Fighting Irish will .1nd Domer~ third-removed. all waving quieti\· in the earl\·-mornin • al\\ :1\·~ b~· \\ inners. 

THEATRE 

\\"hen \\T "er~· d1ildr~·n. ont· ofth~· most exhilirating ~-xperi~·nces wa~ going to th~· ciruiS. The animals. th~· down' and the trapez~· ar­tists e:~ontnlus and brought to I ill· some ofour wikkst and most ad­n·nturous bntasi~·s. CY Cokman. \lichad ~tt·wart and .\lark Bramhle h;I\T brought to life tl;~. ,wry of the circus' grl'at~·,t promoter. 1'. T. Barnum. The Tonv .\ward winning mu~ical. llanllllll. com~·s to the ~tag~· oftill' \lorri~ <:i\·ic AudilOrium Saturday at H p.m. and Suntlay at 2 p.m. and -:~0 p.m. Their production rcli~·, upon the truth ot Bar­num·~ immortal wortls. "Ther~··s a suck~·r horn l'\Tf\ minutl'... to draw an audieiK~· For thl' :\otr~· Dam~·/~aint .\lary's th~·atr~· com­munit\. this production whets the palat~·, of those th~·spian af­til'iandos. .-\ ~unTss in :\(.'\\ York and on tour aero~' the country. it should t'lJUal it.' su~T~·~s here. Ticket prices range from S I0 lO 
S22. 'ill fi1r th~· ~-n·ning perfornun~Ts and Sl) 10 S20 fi1r the Sunday matin~T. To res~-rn· [lckts call 252-(><)'i-t. Till'\" ll'ill accq)t \laster· Card and\ isa: that is. 1f~m1·re lu~·k, enough to han· pJa,.tk· money. 
.\10\lES 

Thi~ t·n·ning inth~· Enginn·ring Auditorium tintb.Jack l.~·mmon. Tom <:urt is ;md .\larilnl .\lonro~· hooting it up in th~· mad-c1p ~·om­nh· ilil..\1111/L'likl' ltliot. 011~· ofth~· most popular nhni~·s made by \larih n \ltlllfoe. and <m~· heset h1 ,-ariou,. stork' umci.·rning .\lonr;•t··~ sl:ltt· ofmt·ntal health d-uring it' filming. thi~ film captures ont• of the classical plot colllTpts of comnlv: mistakt·n id~·1Hity. Cir­cumstances arc complicat~·d In thl· prt·s~·nc~· of a ht·auttful woman and th~· outcom~· i' a hilarious ,·ariation onth~·traditionalmethod of discoH-rv and clarification. ~howtimt·' ar~· -. 9: I 'i :md I 1..~0 p.m. 
Indian~! I niH·rsit\ at 'oouth lknd ( ll ~II). in its nmtinuing film snit·s. presents I brl'l'{ll'llll}' Upertl. It will h~· presellled at H p.m. at :\orth~id~· 1'iH ( l.iull' Tlll'atrl'/l{~Tital Itall) at ll ~~~-Tick~·ts fi>r the performance are ~ 1.2-". 
OlTLOOK 

()ui~·kh h~-coming a monum~·nt to till' prn·aknn· of film in our histor~ ;u;d pre,~·ntlin·~. the \lond:l\ :\ight him ~eries. parts Iand II, will till .-\nnt·nhng .\uditorium again. Beginning at-p.m.. .llas­culine(/(•lllilliiiL' "ill ht· katured as :1 part of~l'rie' I Director.kan­l.uc (;odard ~·xploro thl' tensions that plagued thl' \"ietman era. ~uch ~uhjt"l'ls a~ , out h reactu111s to 'tokt-.c~·-polit icd prott'sl. suiCilk and birth control an· Jocu.,cd on. (,odard has hascd his tllm on two ~hon ~wries h1 (,u~ lk .\1auJ1:1"ant. "I.e ~igtH' .. and "L1 Femme de Paul" Don't kt th~· frendl 'oundtra<.·k discourag~· vou. There<II'!' cngli~h suhtitlo. l·or onI\· ~2.Wl how could anyont· rduse to go. 
.-\m·e:~.planation ofan .-\lfred llitdll'ol·k film would h~· extraneous. .-\sa cin~·n1atic gt·nius in Ill\ •-t~-r~ thriller. llitchcock i_, incomparable:. This 111;1n. once again. wtll proiT to us win his liJm, has allamed the classical standing in movi~· archi,·es in the k.nure pr~·sl·ntation ofthe .\1onda\ :\ight Film ~erit'~ II. I lis I9'i9 adH·nturc..\urlb hy \ortbu.·esl. ~tarring Can (;rant and the t;tce~ of \lt. Rushmor~·. will hit th~· scr~Tn ;ll <)p.m. Atlmis~ion is ~till an ~-conomical S2.00. 
Tickl·t rnnindt'r for all PurL' Prarie l.eague t;ms: tickl·t~ are still :1\·ailahk ti>r their ~cpt~·mher 2H conn·rt at the \!orris Cine .-\uditorium through Rin·r Cit\ lkcords. .-\t Sl). ';O.thn are one ofthe hcst n>nccn tickt·t hll\·s around th~· South lknd ar~·a_ RiHT City Rt-cords i~ open until i0 p.m. lO accept your cash. checks or other forms of kgaltendcr 

smercP·~ 
(1)eOW 

by Ted Ozark 





~j)()~tS=jEJ==~==t=·~~=S=============================s=a=tu=rd=a=y,=s=ep=t=err~··b=e=r=25=,=1=98=2===p=ag=e=J=O 
~ 
I 
I 
I t 
flY The ( Jhsen'('r and !he Assnciuled Press 
The Fellowship ofChristianAthleteswillhold their weekly meeting Monday night in the St. Ed's chapel at 7. All are invited. -The Observer 
A course in watersafety instruction will be offered at Saint Mary's College beginning Monday with a class at 6 p.m. The three-hour sessions will run through December 6 and will be held in the Regina Hall pool. A fee of S I 5 will be charged, and each student must have a current advanced lifesaving card. For more information call 284-4408.. -The Observer 
"Instg. hts-tn. sports" is the name of a series of lectures to be offered this semester by the NVA office. The tlrst ses­sion, a jogging clinic to be held by Irish track and cross-country coach Joe Piane, is scheduled for 7 p.m. Monday at the ACC Auditorium. Tuesday night at 7:~0, Joe Yonto and other ND football coaches will host a session on "How to Watch Football" at the same place. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC Bicycling Club will hold a ride tomorrow afternoon. Cyclists should meet at the Lyons basketball courts at 12:30 for the 25-minute ride. -The Observer 
The Irish ruggers are slated to host the side from Purdue University in a pre-football game clash. The feature match between ND and the Boilermakers' A team will begin at II a.m. be­hind Stepan Center. The B teams will serum at 10 a.m. -The Ob­server 
Afl Organizational meeting of the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's ski team will be held Wednesday at 7:30 in the ACC Auditorium. Enter Gate Three for the meeting. For more in­formation contact Sean Chandler at 2H8-2204. -The Obsen•er 
Martial Arts Association will have an organizational meeting Thur~day, Sept. ~0 at 6:~0 p.m. in room 219 of the Rockne Memorial. Class times have been tlnalizcd and the instructors will be present for questions. All are welcome, cxpcrknccd or not. especial­ly beginners. Call Jerry at 2H:'I-H2..\ I for more info. -The Ohserver 
Ultimate Frisbee dub will have an intra-squad game tomorrow at 2 p.m. behindJake Kline Field. Spectators arc welcome. 
-The Ohsen•er 
The St. Mary's Volleyball tc.am split two matches yesterday losing ~-I 5, 2-I 5 to Northeastern Ill., and defeating Lake Forest 16-4,15-5. The season record is now 2-2. -The Obsert'er 
St. Mary's Basketball is having an organizational meeting for any SMC student interested in trying out. Coach Rouse will conduct the meeting Monday night at ' in the Angela Athletic Facility lounge. -The Observer 
Coach Trees will conduct a meeting for those St. Mary's students interested in trying out for the swimming team. The meeting is scheduled for Tuesday at 7::~0 p.m. in the Regina Hall lounge. -The Ohserver 
The ND soccer team was shut out by Indiana last night 4-0, in a game delayed a half hour by rain.Paul Di Bernardo scored off a corner kick as Irish goalie Gerard McCarthy deflected the ball into his own net at 19:5H. At .-'12:59 Manuel Gorricy had a free kick from 25 yards out to the left of the penalty box. He kicked the ball into a wall of Irish defenders, picked up the loose ball, beat four defenders and McCarthy for the goal. Indiana scored again at ~8:43 when McCarthy couldn't control Zubizcrrcta's shot from 25 yards and the ball popped out to Gorricy who rammed it home. Keith Meyer tlnishcd the scoring at 70:09 off the cross from Gallagher. 
The Obserz,er 
The Notre Dame women's cross-country club continues its season today. The team will compete in meets at Manchester College and Eastern Michigan University. -The Ob­
sen,er 
BASEBALL 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

East  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
StLOUIS  89  65  578  
Pholadelphla  84  69  549  45  
Montreat  82  71  536  65  
P1ttsburgh  80  73  523  85  
Ch1cago  68  85  444  20 5  
New York  60  93  392  28 5  
West  
Los Angeles  85  68  556  
Atlanta  83  70  542  2  
San Franctsco  82  71  536  3  
San D1ego  77  76  503  8  
Houston  72  81  '471  13  
Cmc1nnatt  57  96  373  28  

Yesterday's Results Montreal 6. P11tsburgh 4 Cmctnnatt 2. Houston 0 Atlanta 11. San D1ego 6 Ph1ladelph1a 2. New York 1 
St LOUIS 3. Ch1cago 1 San Franc1sco 3. Los Angeles 2 

Today's Games Ph1ladelph1a (Carlton 21·10 or Denny 0·1) at New York (Swann 10· 7) Pltsburgh (Sarmiento 8-3) at Montreal (Sanderson 11-12) Ch1ago (Noles 9·12) at St LOUIS !AnduJar 14-10) Houston (LaCoss 5-5) at Cunc1nna1t !Scherrer 0-0) San Franc1sco (Barr 4-3) at Los Angeles (Valen-zuela 19-12) 
San D1ego (E•chelberger 6-12) at Allan! a (Boggs 2-2) 
AMERICAN LEAGUE East 

w L Pet. GB Milwaukee 92 61 601 Baltl(nore 88 65 575 4 Boston 84 69 549 8 Oetro1t 77 75 507 14 5 Cleveland 75 77 493 16 5 New York 74 79 484 18 Toronto 71 81 467 20 
West Cahforn1a 88 66 571 Kansas C1ty 85 68 556 25 Ch1cago 80 72 526 7 Seal lie 73 79 480 14 Oakland 64 89 418 23 5 Texas 61 93 396 21 M1nnesota 57 95 375 30 
Yesterday's Results Cah1orma 10. Texas 1 Ch1cago 3. Mmnesota 2 T Milwaukee 15. Balllmore 6 Delro11 4-2. Cleveland 3-6 Boston 4 New York 2 Seattle 3. Toronto 2 kansas C11y 7, Oakland 3 

Today's Games New York (Rawley 9-9) at Boston (Eckersley 12-121 M1nneso1a 10 Connor 8-7) at Ch1cago (Hoyl 16-15) Cleveland (Heaton 0-1) at DetrOII(Moms 16·16) Ba111more (Palmer 14-4) al Milwaukee (VukoviCh 18­
4) 

Kansas C1ty (leonard 10-5) at Oakland tKmgman 3­11) Cahforn1a !Zahn 17-8) at Texas !Bulcher 1-4). n 
Toronto (lealtl-14) al Seattle (Clark 0-2). n 
The Observer wtll accept classtfteds Mon­day through Fnday 10 a m to 4 30 p m However. classtfteds to appear 111 the next tssue must be recetved by 3 p.m. the bus111ess day pnor to tnsertton All classtfteds must be prepaid 
etther 111 person or through the mail 






Classifieds 
REWARD!!! NeednderstoUofllLINOISFn Oct l to MIAMI' I need 3 GAs BAD' Call Kevm at INEEDMIAMIGASDESPERATELY IM Dad. Mom d: •d Awe~ome: AI Pr"ulanthrop1st wtll pay srnall reward to Sun Oct 3 Cah M1ke nl1802 t580 ALSO LOADED WITH CASH CALL Welcome to Notre Dame You hnally ANYONE who wtll prov1de. 1ntorma11on 3075 made 11 I Have a good t1me Come Aga•n
NOTICES 

leadmg to the· arres1. co'lvlcflon. and Need 2 GAs and .1 Stuoenl T1ck for Love Arleen and M1ke pubhc castrallon of tl:lose responsible for M1am1 Call Paul 3405 FOR THOSE WHO MISSED THE MICHI­the felony k1dnapp1ng of GAN STATE LOTTERY: I have two M1ke R I m returntng the favor I had a IS YOUR HAIR GETTING IN THE WAY 
BEVO, FOR SALE Michigan State GA's I'd like to trade for good lime wrestling Thanks for cheenng 
OF YOUR STUDIES~? (alias. Bantl). a 2 2 black and wh1le bull. YO! I need 4 ttckets tor Penn State Bruno either Anzona GA' s or Miar.ni student me up Next weeks on? 1Chtcago and CALL MICHOLE FOR A HAIRCUT last seen graZing oo the 41h floor of Stan­and the rest of the Mob tron'l Phtlly w11J do tix. I can make up the difference in P1ttsburgh. for sure' · TODAY! ford me tn tf I don I get them Mone,v rs no cash. Please contact Michele--x3793. Meg
ONLY $4 FOR GUYS AND $6 FOR problem Call Fran 4385 ·
These terronsts. who obv1ously have WORD PRO,CESSING SYSTEM. $2995 GIRLS 
noth1ng better to do than to spend 64K Microcomputer. tetter qual1ty pnnter WILL PAY BIG MONEY FOR 4 PENN M1ke 0 You were there when I needed BEST TO CALL AFTER 3 AT 7850_ weekends strOking a stuffed bull. had the word processtng soHware. CP/M. Baste neef1tpc tor rn1ctHqan st call 6 ·~ 8944 STATE GA TIX. CALL 312-565-5959 you I m here for you too See you later Je 
gall to send Bevo s nghl eye through the Call277-7720 COLLECT AND ASK FOR STEVE t embrasse WOAD PROCESSING SYSTEM $2995 ma11 (a felony all by 1tsell) Need Anzond llx tor Ma drHl Pal Cdll LONGLEY. Meg64K M1crocomputer.tetter qualtty pnnter 
Your help JS needed to prevent thts col­26 m mans b1cye:Je w1lh etectnc motor Belle 284 5332· word processr:~g soHware CP/M Baste 
lective scum from attack1ng aga1n $195 683·1118 Tra11e 2 Ar1zor,..,J c.;'urlents tn' .cash For 2 Snugg1e -What s up7 Cut me some Call 277-772Q CALL x8765 NOW Need 2 GAs to the Penn State Game can ArtLOnd GAs Cr-111 Scott )(t!OO slack! Call me up Your Identity Will remam anonymous trad~ up to 4 G A s fm the M1am1 game
FOR SALE 1980 MGB. YELLOW EX· 
Want to succee·11n the Class Room Call 712-755-3·156 day or 3277
CELLENT CONDITION. LOW MILEAGE I need MegWant lo be R1ch · 
Lost· gold Movado watch With sentmenta1 CALL272,1549 AFTER 5 00 PM two Want to be successful? For more 1nforma· 
value REWARD offered for return Call NEED ARIZONA TICKETS SOMETHING Miami tickets. OHmaGOSH!IIl lion wnte to Gerry 2858 Plane 11cket from Soutt1 Bend ro sunny WICKED FEEL FREE TO CONTACT Please call I thought I had tickets, now I don't I need JOE CAMPBELL ASSOCIATES THE REKNOWNED SOPIN SUSIE AT Jeb at 8o30. 
Los Angeles Goo<l lhru Oct 25 82 S l 80 Two MIAMI tickets. If you have tickets. 
26 Onvers Ldne 

LOST 1 PAIR OF GLASSES IN BLACK negouable Call Patr1 2723 · 277 0865 Thankyou please sell them to me. Call Jeb at 8630 Laurel Spnngs. NJ 08021 
CASE. BETWEEN 9/16 & 9118 IF SALES REPS WANTED HEL p11 1need one Student or GA M1etm1
FOUND PLEASE CALL JOE AT 277 THE WHO & 1 HE CLASH"' PonlldC Ml UNITED WAY UNITED WAY SEPT 26 0885 Ttcket lor rny httle brOther COi"Tllf1Q all the OCT 3 GIVE YOUR FAIR SHARE $2 00 
9/30 Tox 4 sale 233·6068 HAPPY ANNIVERSARY ANN A. and wdy !rom Cal1f0rn1a II you. can help. CALL PERSONALS-JOHN G. 
LOST Sma.ll cross tn the Eng1neenng CHAIR. LOVESEAT. TABLE. BED. AND MARTY AT 1644 WILL PAY MANY$$$$ H1 Ammal' Bwld1ng area PleCtse calll 187 DRESSER FOR SALE $130 287-5469 TOP 20 TIME 1 UNNEL. STILL ON 
Betsy. where d you gel those seduct1ve RICH grdndparents tromFia want to see WSND AM 64 EVt RV SUNDAY FROM eyes? Remember. that san open mvtta­MIAMI game Need 211X Call284-5050 68 PM llon Use your 1mag1na· 
tton Moooooooool Need 2 Purdue GAs Call J1m al 3342 MARKETING CLUB TICKET RAFFLE
LOST/FOUND IIL..__FO_R_R_EN_T___.I IL..__TIC_K_ET_S___, 
2 GAS FOR MIAMI AND ARIZONA Yes tadtes. the Massapequa Pony 1s BADLY NEED 2 GAS FOR MIAMI SSS GAMES CHANCES 31$1 FOR back' Art Hung like a Horse Jackman IS need 2 GAs tor ARIZONA game call CALL BRIAN 2187 MARKETING CLUB MEMBERS AND back for h1S fourth and fmal year at the b1g LOST: Spald1ng baseball glove on the Lauren tsmc) 5072 2/$1 FOR OTHERS TO ENTER CON· NO He IS now 1n stall 1001. Flanner
FEMALE ROOMMATE NEEDED FOR
field across from Moreau Sem1nary WANTED DESPERATELY ·I PURDUE TACT MATT WESTOVER (277-4305) Slables For your personal slud serv1ce.
NOTRE DAME AVE APTS AVAILABLE
Fnday afternoon Please call Dave. 3458 NEED TWO OR MORE ARIZONA TICK GA PLEASE CALL WI.LL 282-1026 TIM THIRY (1651). MARGARET call1416
IMMEDIATELY. LEASE THRU X-MAS atit found ETSIIII! PLEASE CALL MICHELE AT MCCARTHY 12909). OR JIM 0 HARA
$90hnth CALL x1813 
37931F YOU CAN HELP CALL ME II' NEED 2 GAs FOR MIAMI (3275) DRAWING HELD THE WED· UNITED WAY THANKS TO YOu·· IT LOST -1 pair oi glasses and 1 student ID GAME WILL PAY$$$ SUSAN 6983 NESDAY BEFORE EACH GAME WORKS PLEASE GIVE YOUR FAIR
Furnished 5-room apt • has 3 fnendly
at Green F1eld Saturday. It found. please SHARE $2 00 
I have 2 MIAMI GAs and would like tofemales: needs 4th Ren1 now -Xmas. NO
call Mary at 6751. HELP' Need enough M1am1 t1x tor ent11e GIVE A GIRL A CHANCE! Go back & see
trade them for 2 ARIZONA GAs CALL Sheryl at 6979 1lmteresled populalion ol WYOMING Res-1dents of my ad 1n1he ttx BILL x1024· PICK YOUR OWN APPLES I! at the JoM FOUND: Set of keys at football game 1n sard slate are travel1ng entire d~stance ·by Hancock Frwt Farm From South Bend 
Section 31 See Shorley 1n THE OB­NEED TIX T() MIAMI AND ANY OTHER car for game CaH 6947 11 you ve got· 6 Altenl10n all SMC clubs lake U S 20 east 6 m11es after 20 SERVER off1ce HOME GAME CHAIS-1730 GAs. 1 Slu Alloc.al10n N1ght 15 Thurs Sept 30 at crosses the lnd1ana East-West Toll Road. WANTED ~ 30 1n the Student Govt Office Check turn nght (north) on Fa1l Roact follow 
LOST A btack W1lham Barry deSigner HEY all you crazy w1ld people oul there ~ NEED 2.MIAMI GAs CALL BRIAN dl StUdent Acttvlf1es for stgn up 11nles All s1gns (219) 778-2096 Also ready, We need Tickers and wrll pay you all lhe forms due T ues Sep1 28 by nooo '"Stu­Apts. Call Ltz x4263 
1acke1 REWARD offered 1f found. CALL 1165 ptcked apples. plums pears hOney, 
PAT or TONY-8744 NEED$? ReSponSible. t,ard-work1ng per· money we have for 2 Penn Sr GA·s and 2 dent Act!VItres Any, ??? calf M1ctle1tne 1ams. candles. etc V1s1r our Facm Market son needed tor a fleXIble tO hrs /wk out· Miami GA's Make two really sweet gtrls Santetlo or Student Aclivllies 143~ I 1 & orchards on your way to and tro.m
HElP~ i have two SISters wno Wiiirt lo see LOST· N1kes, red and white. on the Nonh these 1amous NO rootball games &
doormatnterienCft Good pay. good work an oHer. you won 1 be sorry! call very rtch Ch1cago Open everyday from 9·6 Ouacl. on Fnday 91\7 ll touncl call Bnan Musl have tran.spor1a110n Call 1·936-ctndy or much welt to do l(atte at 2948 pan111s Need 2 MIAMI. GA s to g1ve 111em Desperate lor 2 Penn $1 GAs' GOOd SSS 
at 1441 8507 NOW a chance Call BILL at 1024 Call Tom. 1417 CARROT. t>eware otrne herbrVOtes! 
The Observer Saturday, September 2 5, 1982 -page 11 
...Baseball 
CIJIIIiJIII!'dji·o/1/{l<l,!!.e /.! 
Red Sox 4, Yankees 2 
Boston (AP) -John Tudor, staked to the lead with a three-run third inning, scattered seven hits last night in pitching the Boston Red Sox to a 4-2 victory over the New York Yankees. 
Tudor, 15-10, struck out ni-ne in earning his third consecutive vic­tory. The Yankees jumped to a 2-0 lead before the Red Sox unloaded against New York starterJay Howell, 1-5. 
Lou Pinella put New York in front 1-0 with his sixth homer, a shot into the screen in left-center with one out in the second. The Yankees added another run in the third on a two-out single by Willie Randolph and a 200-foot, pop double down the left field line by Dave Collins. 
Boston struck back in its half of the third to go in front to stay. Rick Miller led offwith a single, took third on Gary Allenson's double off the wall in left and scored on Jerry Remy's grounder to short. 
Dwight Evans sliced a double to ri-ght, scoring Allenson. One out later, Carl Yastrzemski singled to center to score Evans. 

Atlanta 11, San Diego 6 
ATLANTA ( AP) -Rafael Ramirez belted two home runs and drove in five as the Atlanta Braves snapped a three-game losing streak with an 11­6 victory over the San Diego Padres last night. 
The Braves started the night three games behind first-place Los Angeles in the National League East. The Braves rallied from a 6-2 detkit after three innings to record their ~~th comeback victory of the season. 
Ramirez singled home a run in the second, belted a solo homer in the fifth, had a sacritke tly in the sixth and capped a four-run seventh with a two-run homer, his ninth. 
Atlanta took a "7_6 lead with three runs in the sixth. Man Sinatro walked and pinch-hitter Ken Smith heat out an infield hit ofrthe glove of losing pitcher Mike Grifiln, 0-1. Claudell Washington followed with an RBI single to right, Ramirez hit his sacrifice tly and pinch-hitter Chris Chambliss drove in the go-ahead run on a forceout at second base. 
The victory went to Ken Dayley, S-6. 

Angels 1 ~, Rangers 1 
ARLINGTON, Tex. (AP)-Bobby Clark and Tim Foli each drove in two runs and Bruce Kison scattered seven hits for eight innings as the California Angels protected their division lead with a 10-1 pounding of the Texas Rangers last night. 
Kison, 10-S, walked two and struck out eight before being relieved at the start of the ninth in­ning by Luis Sanchez. California bat­ten:d Texas starter Rick Honeycutt, S-1 "", and two relievers for 14 hits. 
The Angels took a 2 game lead over Kansas City in the American League West into last night's con­test. 
California scored single runs in the second, third, fourth and fifth in­nings. Clark drove in Don Baylor with a second-inning groundout, Bob Boone scored on Rod Carew's third-inning sacrifice fly, Brian Downing doubled Foli home in the fourth and Clark again knocked in Baylor with a fifth-inning single. 
clip this coupon 
..---------­

51300 U.S. 31 No. 

Don't let your car go through the harsh Michiana winter without visiting us first at the 


BUSTOONTBOLOENTBE 
Reg. $99.50 


-------------~~~~~!~~!~~~------------J
clip this coupon Save ten Bucks 


I he \u/i(J/1<11 ( tllho/ic lnl'ilaliona/lruck 111!'!'1 11'<1-' hosted h)' /be lnsh )'!'Sil'l"illl)'. lltlrcfll!'llt' I llil'!'l".,il)' look /ofJ hnlltii"S tiS six of"tbe tot' len ri/JJII<'J"S to cross the I ill<' II'<'I'<' II tlrriurs. \'o/re OtiJII!' flllis/)('t/ St'CoJ/t/. I I J/Joto l>r \cul/lioii'!'JI 

Specializing in 
Prime Rib, Seafood, Steaks and serving your favorite cocktails­

lt•p GOIRISH" 602 $.. w.a.t _ !1-~~-~-BOIL_ERMAK_ERS South 111N1 TAKIXG RESERVATIOXS 232-2494 X 0 W 

Banquet rooms available with option to create your own menu. Serving dinner at Spm Mon.· Sat. 

Dine among the antiques and enjoy our view of the new downtown! 
.. _-servations Appreciated 234-9000 lll South Niles South Bend 



LEE'S B-BQ & RIBS 
OPEN FRI4pm-1am SAT after game-1 am 
'BEST RIBS IN MICHIANA' 
'EVERYBODY C'MON DOWN FOR A GOOD TIME' 

GOOD LUCK TO ND 1132 South Bend Ave • (No phone in orders) 
The Observer Saturday, September 25, 1982 page 12 
Cards keep 4 game lead over Phillies 


NEWYORK(AP)-:'vlike Krukow and Ron Reed teamed for am eight­hitter as Philadelphia posted a 2-1 victory over the New York Mets last night, keeping the Phillies' slim pen­runt hopes alive. 
Philadelphia began the night -1 games behind the first-place St. Louis Cardinals in the National League East. 
Krukow, I:\-I I, left after yielding a leadoff triple to George Foster in the eighth inning. He recorded only his second victory in I I starts. 
:rhe Phillies picked up an un­earned run off Mets' starter Walt Terrell. 0-2, in the fourth following leadoff walks to Gary Matthews and Mike Schmidt. Bo Diaz grounded in­to a double play, but first baseman Dave Kingman booted George Vukovich's grounder, allowing Mat­

All games Ibis u·eekend bat•e /Jeen canceled See thews to score from third. SIOI'_J' fJ.I-1. (.·IP Pboto). Philadelphia scored again in the 
1,1'''" 
... 

,(:!t<,~ 

~\-™ 


SENOI\ KELLY'S 
MEXICAN -IRISH CAFE 
. Downtown South Bend 
119 North Michigan St. !Opposite 1st Source/Marriott Center! Phone (219) 234-5389 
FrOZRn Margaritas/ Imported Beers Mexiwn Cuisine/Wet Burritos South Bend's Best Barbeque Ribs & Chicken 
OPEN SATURDAY 
g0url, :gr,;1rl ·,: cgigge()t ond :gmt 'T}Ito0rn ._;Un~goliilflc: 
John Fought takes Southern Open lead 
By TOM SALADINO 
AP Sports Writer 
COI.liMBUS, Ga. (AP) -John Fought, the I979 rookie of the year who quit the tour earlier this year in frustration, fired a 4-under-par 66 yesterday to take a one-stroke lead after the second round of the S250,000 Southern Open golf tournament. 
Fought, who had a 67 Thursday, has a I :\:1 total, one shot ahead of first round co-leader Bobby Clam­pen, who had a 69 Friday for a I :\4 total over the par-"'0, 6,79I-yard Green Island Country Club course. 
Both Fought and Clampett are graduates of Brigham Young Univer­sity. 
Fought, who won two tourna­ments in his rookie year and earned SI OH,OOO, has earned less than 59:\,000 in the three years since, including only S9,"'9H this year. 
The 2H-year-old, who abo won the I97"' U.S. Amateur, had tour birdies, including a 15-ti>Oter on the l-ith hole and a 10-footer on I 5, to take the lead in the battle for the S-i5,000 tlrst prize. 
Fought quit the tour in midseason after only eight tournaments and took off for four months before returning about eight weeks ago. 
"I just wanted to get away.! didn't touch a club for two months. I just wanted to sort out my thoughts," said Fought. who worked for his father as an accountant and then resumed practicing ti>r two months before returning. 
"I knew I was going to come back. I just had to get away. I had put too much pressure on myself, and it was wearing me out," he said. 
Clamp~:tt, 22, a non-winner in two 
· years on he tour, had a round that included tive birdies and tour bogeys. 
"Today has shown me that there is room for practice. I need to get out and work at it," said Clampett, who went 9-under before bogeying three of the last tlve holes. 
While not winning on the tour, Clampett has tlnished secoqd .tive times. He was third this year in the 
U.S. Open and led the British Open ti>r two round.s. 
Two shots back at I 5"i were George Burns and Tim Simpson. Burns had a 6H and Simpson had a 69. 
Andy Bean, Wally Armstrong and Chip Beck were at I:'>6. Bean and Be­ck had 6-s; Armstrong had a -o. 

sixth when Schmidt drew a leadoff walk. stole second, went to third on a wild pitch. and scored on Vukovich's hrokenhat single to right 
tield. 

Cards,3, Cubs 1 

~;T. LOl 11S (AP) -John Stuper fired a four-hitter and Ken Oberkfell's run-scoring intield single capped a two-run eighth inning, carrying the St. Louis Cardinals to a :\-1 victory over the Chicago Cubs Friday night. 
The Cards maintained their -i game lead over second-place Philadelphia in the National League East, as the Phillies nipped New York 2-1 Friday. The victory also reduced the Cards' magic number to five. 
Stup'er,  9-6,  posted  his  third  
straight victory  and  second  com­ 
plete game ofthe season.  

Tommy Herr opened the eighth with a single off Bill Campbell, :\-6. Lonnie Smith then sacriticed before Keith Hernandez was walked inten­tionally. Hendrick's infield single loaded the bases, Gene Tenace delivered a pinch-hit sacrifice fly and Oberkfell followed with his RBI single. 
See BASEBAI.I., page 11 


,.. Top 
Colllinuedji·onJficlge I·J 

terbacks, he does admit to the hoopla and a show business atmos­phere surrounding the contest, which will attract a packed house of more than 70,000. 
Illinois has developed a tough defense to go with its gaudy offense led by Eason's passing, but White doesn't think there will he any pressure on his Illini. 
"The pressure is on Pitt," said White. "We were not picked to win the national championship. We welcome this game. It gives us a chance ro evaluate our program at Illinois." 
The Big Ten teams hope to im­prove on their 4-7 record this season against outside competition. 
There are three night games on the schedule with undefeated Min­nesota taking on Washington State, Iowa playing at Arizona and Indiana hosting Syracuse in the first night football game at home for the Hoosiers. 
Then there's the Northern lllinob at Northwestern clash. Northwes­tern hopes to snap "The Streak," which has reached a major college NCAA record of 5-I losses and ~orth­ern Illinois hopes to avoid being "The Victim." 
There will be a lot to evaluate in the I'CL-\-.\Iichigan contest. Some tecll'CLA, and not lOp-ranked Wash­ington. is the power in the l'ac-1 0. But how far has I CI.A come from Its :\:\-1 ! Bluehonnett Bowl loss to 1\lichigan last season' 
I'CLA pounded \X'bconsin 51-26 last wet:k under the passing attack of Tom RamseY who completed I­passes for 260 \·ards while 1\lichigan dropped a 2 5-I-decision at Notre Dame. 

ujtuj YWil ~ week0cd at 
lb~~.~.9H. $1J.50 ~ 6•.MeUiy ~ 
~. bue *·cab£e TO. airt 

cmcdifituwcg. ~ ~whup ~ ~-Calf~~. 

JJiceice 1-MG-4555. 

--~-----------~---------------~ --­


_IheO~rver======================================== 
Saturday, September 25, 1982 -page 13





Weekend 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 
50 IAIHYfXJ YOU





Simon Jeb Cashin 
HME YOIJ FOUND 
W~AT! ~ND

WHL, 1 ~M THE 
TillS TO BE A 
lOC£ THE "Ef~l
LEPRECHAUN MASCOT 




SOMETIMES TI-/EPi£'5 NO





~\lfl/ 

Daryl the Slug 
D. Pancreas 


Campus 
•6 
a.m.--< p.m. -Mennonite Relief Sale, Elkart Coumy Fairgrounds, Sponsored hy Mennonite Commtttec ti>r llome and Foreign :'\1inistries 

•H:50 
a.m. -Test, Educational Testing Service Ex­amination, Enginening Auditorium 

•9:50 
a.m. -Tennis, Notre Dame Women vs. Purdue, Courtney Courts 

•9:50 
a.m. -Baseball, Notre Dame vs. Valparaiso, jake Kline Field 

•1 
p.m. -Gerry Faust Interview, Gerry Faust, WSND-A.\1 (H, Sponsored hy WSND-AM 6-1, 


•1 :50 p.m. -Football, Notre Dame vs. Purdue, Stadium 
•(,, H, & 10 p.m., and :'\lidnight Film, "Animal House··. K of C Hall, Sponsored hy Knights of Colomhus, S1.00 •-. 9: IS, and I I :_>,o p.m. -Film, "Some Like It Hot"", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored hy Film Club, SI.OO 
Sunday, Sept. 26 
•9. 
& 10:50 a.m.. and !2:!S p.m. Mass, Sacred Heart Church 

•1 
p.m. -Baseball, Notre Dame vs. St. Francis College, jake Kline Field 

•5:50 
p.m. -ND basketball players and coaches play annual intrasquad softball game, 


Behind left tleld knee ofjake Kline Field, Public is invited to attend 
Brian The saga ofthe youngest domer 

BRIAN'S ScREw-YouR­ROOM MATE DATE Sl-IAR ED HIS SAME FEELINGS-


The Daily Crossword 
©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 9/25/82 All Rights Reserved 
ACROSS 33 Energetic 1 Concorde 36 Bookie's 4 Scarf client 9 Pindarics 37 Eskimo 
13 Cafe au -outpost 15 -of the 38 Machine tongue for turning 16 Novel 40'·Wheel of 
by Zola a ship 17 Enrolled 41 Some Louvre 19 Redact paintings 20 Belle or 43 North Caro· 
Ringo lina cape 21 She: Ger. 45 Queen of ­22 Lose color 46 Laundry 23 High cards, tray 
in bridge 47 Hob ­25 Asunder (old-style 27 Courting toast) 29 Heath 49 Thompson 
plant girl 
Friday's Solution 

9/25/82 
53 Shells and bullets 
56 Of the gums: comb. form 
57 Fountain 
drinks 58 Appearance 59 They take 
"odds" jobs 62-fide 63 Signed 64 Meat 
flavoring 65 Med. subj. 66 Orgs. 67 Diet. 
DOWN 1 Splash with 
liquid 2-Domingo 3 Giantof 
myth 4 Manufac· 
tured: abbr. 5 Equal: pref. 6 Bringing 
to an end 7 On a long 
walk 8 Disturbed 9 Noteworthy 
occurrence 10 Art cult 11 Bagnold, 
the author 12 Fill to the brim 

14 Impose the maximum sentence on 
18 Flynn of 
films 24 Dirties 26 Tiny 28 -jiffy 30 Roman 
highway 31 Soft drink 32 Provides 
weapons 33 Skirt edges 34 Beehive State 35 Balanced, in a way 36 Midleror 
Davis 39 Bonnet 42 Sailor 44 City on the 
Arkansas 46 Wiselaw­givers 48 African 
region 50 Goal 51 NCO 52 English 
county 53-Longa 54 Satellite 55 Ms. Freeman 60 Berryor 
Stabler 61 Docs 

: WHATDOESTHE ! ! STUDENT UNION RECORD STORE !
• 
:cHFAPFR PRJr.FS ... s."' ::>1 "12,~·nvmn~l"trn((•s' HAVE FOR ME? : 
. A.
•MOSTCUH.H.FNTALBl:,\IS Sl>.'ill(comparvatSK991i"). • •.
• 
·... ' 
:CUT-OUTS ... S.!'IHr" ~'\ w-: : : GREAT SELECTION ... Springst<'t'n. rogc!berg. Stevie :\irks. : : Cristopher Cro". M<xxlv Hlues, Pat Benatar. : e journey. <Uld many mon•; •
•e 
ALSO . ,. recorded and blank tapes available. •• : CONVENIENCE ... l:he ;s.:[)~U R<'<OfU ~tor,· i-.Jo,·;uvd o~ the : 

• 
Main flooroiLtFortune and is open I0··'1 e : PLUS -ordered albums take only one wt't'k to arrive 1 : 


,..•....•.•..•..•.•••.........•......................•.....•.•....•.••......•••.•.•.
. 



Student Legal Services· 
BASEMENT NOTRE DAME LAW SCHOOL ______~ 

LEGAL AID AND.. DEFENDER ASSOCIATION 

-RoomB-f2 283-1795 9-4:30 
-

I----other times by appointment . 
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••o••••••••••·~~·••••••••••••••w~ ~~•••• 
Saturday, September 25, 1982-page 14




S~orts 
NFL O'Wners, players tneet to end strike 


NEW YORK (AP)-Jack Donlan and Ed Garvey, the chief negotiators for the National Football League owners' group and players' union, will meet this weekend at an undis­closed site in hopes of settling the four-day-old strike, the Management Council said Friday. 
Jim Miller, public relations direc­tor of the owners' unit, would not reveal the make-up of the negotiat­ing committees but said he did not expect Pete Rozelle, the NFL com­missioner, would take part in the talks. 
Donlan, executive director of the Management Council, and Garvey, his counterpart with the union, agreed in telephone conversations to meet. It was the first major development since the talks broke off Sept.17, three days before the strike began. 
That strike has now wiped out 14 

tllitlfi·eshlll<'ll r/11/lling !Jacks Rodne)' Carter (flld 
regular-season games, the entire 

.lief (,"my lndoy at 1:30 f/.111. <II ibe stodi11111. 
third weekend of play. No.l4 was 

(!'bolo h)' RaciJef Ulo11111 ). 

Major fOOtball showdowns on tap today 
By HERSCHEL NISSENSON andJOE MOOSHIL 
Tbe Associated Press 

The second-ranked Nebraska Cornhuskers set many records while crushing New Mexico State 68-0 last week, but the only record they're shooting for today is 3-0. 
The Cornhuskers take a 2-0 mark to State College, Pa., for a nationally televised clash with eighth-ranked Penn State (CBS-TV, 3:30 p.m., EDT), which already owns a 3-0 log. The winner will have to be con­sidered a serious challenger for the national championship. 
Meanwhile, Washington, the No.I team in the Associated Press poll, begins defense of its Pacific-1 0 crown with a home game against winless Oregon, third-ranked Pitt visits No.l9 Illinois and fourth-rated Alabama hosts Vanderbilt in a South­eastern Conference game. 
Rounding out the Top Ten, fifth­ranked Florida plays host to Mississippi, State, No.6 Southern Methodist entertains Texas Chris­tian in a night contest, No.7 Georgia visits South Carolina at night, Missis­sippi meets No.9 Arkansas under the lights in Little Rock, and Purdue faces No.1 0 Notre Dame in South Bend. 
In the Second Ten, Army is at No.ll North Carolina, No. I 2 UCLA is at No. 20 Michigan, Stanford is at No.l3 Ohio State (ABC-TV, noon, EDT), No. 14 Arizona State is at California, Richmond is at l\lo.l 5 West Virginia, Michigan State is at No.l6 Miami, Fla., Missouri is at No.1 7 Texas in a night game and No.18 Southern Cal is at Oklahoma. 
Nebraska Coach Tom Osborne knows his team will have it much tougher against Penn State than a week ago when the Cornhuskers set NCAA records for total offense ( 883 yards), first downs ( 4 3 ), most rus­hing yards without a loss (677), and rushing first downs ( 36). 
"We'll find out a lot about our­selves in the next two or three weeks," Osborne says. "We'll play some great football teams in Penn State and Auburn, and Colorado might be pretty good, too." 
In two games, Nebraska has out­rushed its opposition l ,020 yards to 
190. At one time, this loomed as a duel between tailbacks Mike Rozier of the Cornhuskers and Penn State's Curt Warner, but the Nittany Lions are throwing the football this year and Warner has rushed for just 143 yards, while Todd Blackledge has thrown four touchdown passes in each of Penn State's three victories. 
"We're 3-0 and that's pretty good," says Coach joe Paterno. "We're getting better, there's more cohesion. We are more comfortable with the new offense, particularly with the passing game. We're getting better with the running game, but we're still making too many mistakes. We're not sustaining our blocks long enough to open holes." 
Florida, which owns victories over Miami and Southern Cal, swings into SEC play against Missis· sippi State, a game which Coach Charley Pell calls the start of the Gators' "second season." 
"We are encouraged from the results of the first two games but the challenge of what is to come is mighty big," Pell says. "There is no question that the first two games are important developments however. 
they will become iust individual and isolated success if the squad thinks they have now climbed the moun· tain. We can't let overcondfidence enter the picture. There have been other Florida teams which have got­ten off to some pretty impressive starts, but were unable to build upon that success." 
The Southern Cal-Oklahoma game will not he televised after all, since the NCAA got a stay of a U.S. District Court ruling which had overturned the new four-year TV pact with ABC and CBS. Oklahoma had sold the USC game to a local sta­tion for S250,000, but the stay killed that deal. 
Last year's game in Los Angleles was a memorable one, with USC pul­ling out a 28-24 triumph on 7-yard' pass from john Mazur to Fred Cornwell with two seconds left. Mazur has since trar.sferred to Texas A&M and sophomore Sean Salisbury is the new Trojan quarterback. 
"I see nothing different about this year's Southern California team ex­cept that they've lost a game," says Oklahoma Coach Barry Switzer: "They still have as many great ath­letes playing for them as any great team in the country and I'm sure that tlrst-game loss made them even more determined to win the remain­der of their games. 
"Last year, we played for the No.I 
spot in the nation, and even though 
that's not the case this year, it is still a 
very critical contest for both of us, 
mainly hecause we did lose our 
openers." 
Big Ten football tt:ams sur­
roundt:d by question marks should 
find a lot of the answt:rs today aftt:r 
the air is clt:ared from an ambitious schedule matching many of tht: na­tion's top-ranked teams and a num­ber of tht: more tutstanding individuals. 
Topping the slate will be the clash at Champaign, IlL, whert: third­ranked and undefeated Pittsburgh, led by Dan Marino, goes up against undefeated and 19th-ranked Illinois, led by Tony Eason. 
Marino and Eason are among the nation's more heralded quarter­backs. Although lllini Coach Mike White doesn't want to look at the 
See TOP, (Y.tge U 

the Cincinnati Bengals' Monday 
night v1s1t to the Browns in 
Cleveland, called off yesterday by 
the league. 

As usual, the NFL's statement was 
a briefone, saying only that the game 
"will not be played" because of the 
players' strike, rather than referring 
to it being postponed or canceled. It 
was the 14th game to be scratched, 
the others being Thursday night's 
Atlanta-at Kansas City game and 
tomorrow's 12-game schedule. 

Rozelle had said he would be wil­ling to sit in on the bargaining, but only as a mediator, not a negotiator. That was his first substantive move in the dispute. Earlier he had confined his comments to saying he was staying close to the situation and would be willing to work be­
hind the scene to help resolve it. 

"Just as the players have a paid 
negotiator in Ed Garvey, the owners 
have their paid negotiator in Jack 
Donlan," Rozelle said. If both sides 
want me to help, I'll be glad ..." 

The first serious break in the uni­
on ranks appeared to be occurring in New Orleans, where Russell Erxleben, the punter and player rep­resentative of the Saints, said he was canvassing his teammates to see -how they felt about the union's 
wage-scale demands. 

Erxleben also said he had been reprimanded by Garvey for speaking out publicly about the union's demand that all players' base salaries be determined strictly by time of service, without regard to talent or position. 
"If the players want it, fine," 
Erxleben said. "If not, let the voices 
be heard. I am by no means wanting 
to mess up the whole union. We're. 
behind every team in the league. But 
we just want to find out ifeverybody 
still feels the same. 
Sunday college games a real possibility 
MISSION, Kan. ( AP)-The NCAA gave the go-ahead yesterday for live network tt:lecasts of college football games on Sundays during the National Foothall League players strike. 
The t1rst Sunday telecast could he Oct. 3. pending approval of the plan hy ABC, CBS and the Turner 1-lroadcasting System, said Tom Hansen, assistant executive director ofthe NCAA and director of its college tilOtball programming. 
The plan, designt:d to givt: the nt:tworks greater tlexibility in choosing games, was approved yesterday hy the NCAA Council. 
Hansen said the council had agret:d to limit tht: Sunday telecasts to just one game in any area pt:r wt:ek. This could mean ont: game tt:lecast nationally, or two or mort: aired on a rt:gional basis. 
Hansen said the plan must be approved by ABC, CBS and the Tur­nt:r Broadcasting System. which has signed a supplementary cable contract with the NCAA. 
Hansen, in a_n intt:rview Thursday with Tbe /Jail)' Oklahoman of Oklahoma City, said tht: games would ht: shown alternatelv hv CBS and ABC. -· t:nder the NCAA contract with ABC and CBS, a national ap­pearance pays a school about SSSO,OOO. 






SUBSCRIBE!!
If you are one of the thousands of people who just can't get enough of Notre Dame football, then The Observer is just what you're looking for. By having The Observer delivered daily to your home, you can know more about about the Fightin' Irish football team than you ever dreamed. Every day our large and talented reporting staff will keep you informed ofthe latest news concerning Gerry Faust's much improved football team. And when it comes time to start thinking about basketball, you can be sure that The Ob­server will provide you with all the information you'll need about Digger Phelps and his scrappy squad. For just S12 you will receive The Observer at your home for the entire season. Or you can take advantage of our special full-year discount and receive The Ob­
server through the spring for only S22. That's a great savings for the most comprehensive coverage ofNotre Dame sports anywhere. You simply can't afford to turn this offer down. just fill out the attached coupon. You'll be glad you did. ' 

The Observer

\l.tk·.· l hl'll..' pavahk 111: I'< l Box <)
,11HI111aillt>: 
.'\o!rl' DanH·. 1'\ Jl>'i'i(> DEnclosed is S22 for the full academic year. DEnclosed is S12 for the remainder ofthe semester. 
Xame .. __ .\ddrn.,.. 
(it\. .. ... ~tall' .Zip 
Renewal N.D. Alumni Year Graduated ___ 
~------------------------------------------------' 

Saturday, September 25, I9sz -page 15 
Burtnett starting over 
After years in the trenches, Purdue's coach settles down 
By GREG SMITH 
-~~ 
.\jJOrls Writer 
~· 

The Purdue Exponent 
WEST LAfAYETTE, Ind. -After I~ years of coaching, Leon Burtnett has made it to the top. 
Since becoming Purdue's ;'lOth head ti>otball coach after Jim Young's resignation last year, Burtnett has found the job demand· ing of both hi~ time and energy. 
"The major change from assistant coach to head coach b that it demands more time." Burtnett says. "It demand~ that you plan out your whole day. I have 10 make ~ure I leave time ti>r the coaching end of the job." 
During the summer. Burtnett was kept busy speaking at variou~ alumni functions. "It gave me a chance to meet a lot of nt·w people," he says. "I had done it hdilre as an assistant, so it wasn't a~ if I was going in cold. I just hadn't done it as much heti>re." 
Burtnett found that he must also spend more time recruiting. "As an assistant coach, Iwas assigned a certain area to cover.'' says the ~9-ycar-old rookie coach. "If! tlnished in my area. Jim had me 
"I feel that a~ head.coach I have to see more students in more areas. Since January. I've tlown -tO,OOO miles on recruiting trip~. We had an ~xcellent recruiting year last year. hut 
each year you have to try to do better." During the I5 years he has been coaching college football. Burtnett ha.~ not stayed in 
. , 

one place for a long period oftime. In fact, the five years he h;L~ spent at Purdue is the longestLeon Burtnett time he has ever staved at one universitY. 
Born in Californi~ and raised in Oklahoma, he and his family moved to Meade, Kan., before his sophomore year in high school. While in high school, Burtnett played tennis, made all-state in basketball and played foot­hall. 
On the football team. he played quarter­
• • • Kiel 

back and running hack. After high school, Burtnett attended Southwestern College in Kansas, where he earned all-conference 1 honors as a fullback and was captain of the
continuedfrom page "We don't want another five and six season 
team as a senior. One coach that has certainly made a dif like last year. The gu~·s are more determined 
Burtnett began his coaching career right ference this year has been quarterback and to do well than we were last year. It was a new 
out ofcollege in I965 as head coach at Mount receiver coach Ron Hudson, and Kiel is the year for Coach Faust, it was a new year for us 
Hope High School in Kansas. "I was very for­first to admit it. under him, and I think the transition wa.~ part 
tunate to get the job," he says. "I wouldn't "Hudson coming to :'1/otre Dam·e is one of oflast year's problem. 
have gotten the job if I had tried out for the the major reas<>ns why I'm playing the way I "After a year of experience, we know how pros. I didn't try out for the pros because I have lately," says Kiel. "He's brought in a he thinks and the type of players we have on didn't think I was good enough." whole new offense that works very well. We this team. It would he ti)()lish to let the talent In 1967, he moved on to Sterling High use the hacks much more, while concentrat-we have on this team go to waste. We have to School in Kansas as head coach. After two ing on the middle area of the field. play at our maximum potential." But before years at Sterling, he received a job as a "We'll he using Tony Hunter on inside pat· anyone starts conjecturing about the Irish and graduate assistant coach ofthe freshman team terns and hitting the wide recievers outside ending their statements with the words at Colorado State llniversity. Despite wanting when the defense comes in on Tony. W'e have "national champions," Kiel adds a touch of an offensive coaching job, he wa.~ given the job ofdefensive coordinator.
a mort· diversitied attack then we had last realism to the rosy picture painted hy the year lights last weekend. 
In the next eight years Burtnett spent time at six different universities. From 1970-..,2, heLast year. These two words could he the key "I don't think that people should he jum­was secondary coach for one year each atto the Irish season, as the team that was ping to conclusions yet. We have gotten bet­Montana State, Washington State andsupposed to put a ttiry-tale ending on Faust's. ter, but we still have a lot ofthings to prove. 
Wyoming. In 197~. he took over as defensiveCinderella story instead made 19H1 a year of "Like the saying goes, one game does not a 
coordinator at Wyoming.

learning for both coach and players. season make." 
In 1974 he joined Head Coach Darrell Rogers at San Jost· State as linebacker coach. 
Burtnett considers Rogers the major in­
fluence in his coaching career...\lost of my • 
coaching philosophy comes from Darrell."' he 
says. 
Burtnett moved with Rogers to Michigan 
~tate University in 197<'. lie spent one year at 
1\ISll and then became defensive coordinator 
at Purdue in 19~.., when Jim Young took over 
as head coach. lie moved up to assistant head 
coach in 19~9. 
"The reason I moved around so much was 
because I thought each move was a step up," 
says Burtnett. "Each advancement exposed 
me to different philosophies. I learned a lot... 
The two coaches Burtnett considered most 
intluential on him art· Young and Rogers. "I 
learned from Jim how to organize mv time." 
he says. "While Jim was coaching, he ·was the 
heM organized coach I've seen... 
Young and Rogers were both pass-oriented 
coaches. and Burtnett is no different. Burtnett 
recruits with a passing attack in mind. 
"I recruit according to m~ pllilosophie~ ... 
he says. "I feel the pas~ing attack i~ conducive 
to all positions. It gives the running hack~ a 
better chance of staying healthy. It also give~ 
them a better chance of making the pros he­
cause the scouts see them both running and 
catching the hall." 
Like Burtne t tt, Young and Rogers both were 
defensive coaches before becoming head 
coaches. "I feel it is an advantage to have been 
a defensive coach," Burtnett savs. "I coached 
the secondary which gives me. an advantage 
because I know how to hurt it the most. I feel! 
can also help the quarterbacks by recognizing 
the coverage being put on them." 
After years of moving, Burtnett, his wife _Cecilia and his three children call Purdue home. "The area is an ideal place for raising a family," Burtnett says, admiringly. "Two ofmy children were horn here. I like the com­munity and the support it gives the team." 
But Burtnett has not gotten the breaks 
necessary in order to he a successful first-year 
coach. During the course of the year, Purdue 
lost seven players due to academic and per­
sonal reasons, and iniuries. 
Against Minnesota last Saturday, Purdue 
lost its eighth player. defensive lineman Paul 
Hanna, to a knee injury. 
But despite the two lopsided losses (.35-1 oJ to Stanford and ~(,-I 0 to Minnesota), Burtnett has not given up, at kast not yet. "Naturally we have a Ion~ way to go as a football team.," he concedes. "We plaved two good first halves in both games and we have totally fal­len apart in the second haif The biggest con­
cern I ha.·>'e as a coach ;~ why we're making so many mistakes. We al(· executing well at times and then we'll h:1vr· a mental mistake 
ti)at will cost us. "I don't fed we're that had of a football team." 
continuedfrom page I 
Notre Dame will have to do the things faust speaks ofagainst a Boilermaker squad that has given up 92H total yards in hack-to-hack losses to Stanti>rd ( y;.I oJ) and \-1inne~ota ( ~6-I 0 ). 
"That total is a little hit deceiving because you can't forget that (Stanti>rd's All-American quarterback)John Elway accounted for quite a hit of that yardage and he's as good as anybody around," said Faust. "They (Purdue) are breaking in some new people at certain 
_positions hut don't he surprised if some of them come into their own this week against us. It seems like playing against Notre Dame docs that to people anytime we play." 
If the new people faust speaks of do come into their own, it would give Purdue its first victory at Notre Dame Stadium since I9~'!. when the Boilers upset the Irish ;'li-20. 
At stake is the Shillelagh Trophy -given to the winner of the Notre Dame-Purdue game since 19S~. During that time, Notre Dame has won it I~ times. the Boilers 12. 
The Shillelagh is one of many reasons this intra-state rivalry always ranks as one of the most emotional games ofeach season for both teams. 
"When a team plays emotional games like we have the past two weeks, you can have let­downs," said tlrst-year Purdue Coach Leon Burtnett. "That's what's happening to this football team, they have doubts about their abilities. The kids want to win so had it's effecting their play. They have 10 relax and have fun." 
The Boilers shouldn't expect too much fun facing a :'llotre Dame defense that held \1ichi­gan to oJ I yards rushing and sacked quarter­hack Steve Smith eight times for 5oJ yards in losses. 
"They have the personnel, there's no doubt," said Burtnett. "I think they surprised everyone la.~t year when they went S-6 with the personnel they have. Their defense was good last year. Now their offense looks much more consistent." 
Notre Dame's new-timnd offensive consis­tency hegins with junior quarterback Blair Kiel, who had the best day ofhis career against \1ichigan with IS completions on 22 attempts for I-t I yards. for his efforts. Kiel received the game hall from his teammates, Notre Dame's most valuable player award from ABC and a double dose ofconfidence from himself. 
"Blair Kiel looked a lot better in his first 



Outlook 
game against ,\lichigan than I've seen him look since he went 10 Notre Dame," said Burtnett. "He will he a problem for us." 
And so will fullback Larry Moriarty. who rushed for I I6 yards on 16 carries against the Wolverines. Kiel's well-timed short passes, mixed with the strong running game provided bv Moriartv and tailbacks Phil Carter and Greg B~ll. have kept Burtnett in his office watching game tilms until the wee hour~ ofevery morn­ing this week. 
For the Boiler~. the otfenst: i~ Campbell, who has completed 2~ of SH pa.o,sc.~ (.466 per­cent) lilr 2--yards in two games. 
"I have as much re~pect ti>r him a~ any other quartt:rhack we'll faet: thb year after what he did to u~ last ~·ear," said Faust 
Campbell will look to flanker Dave Rether­ford ( 6-for-S6 yards) and tight end Cliff Ben­son ( ';-for-HS) when he goes to the pass. On the ground, .\lei Gray (52 carries for I(H yards) and Rodney Carter ( I H-ti>r-9 .~)are the main forces in the rushing attack. 
"I remember that we won our tirst gamt: last year." said faust, who is being perhap.o, overly­cautious in his predictions for the remainder 

ofthe season. "Things didn't go too well for us 
...
after that." Larry Moriarty 

-"-"·
..• 

,.,-_. __ r_ .......• 
.:..-~~,;._ .... 



Saturdayl September 25, 1982-page 16. 
The Irish Extra -Purdue 

Notre Dame vs • Purdue
·":-.·~~$ 




The Statistic
The Game 
GAME: Fighting Irish vs. Purdue Boilermakers 
TEAM STATISTICS NO OPP SCORING GTD PA R-PA S FG TP
SITE: Notre Dame Stadium ( 59,075) TIME: 1:30 p.m. EST Saturday, Sept. 18, 1982 
TOTAL OFFENSE YARDS 419 227 Johnston 0 2-2 0-0 0 3-3 11 
1V-RADIO: WNDU-TV(Ch. 16) 
Total Plays 77 57 Monarty 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Yards per Play 54 4 oo Bell 1 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6
JeffJeffers andJack Nolan 
Yards per Game 419 0 227.0 
PENALTIES·YARDS 7-66 3-15 NO 1 2 2-2 0-0 0 FUMBLES·LOST 2-1 2-2 OPP 1 2 2-2 0-0 0 
Metrosports Replay Network 
Harry Kalas and George Connor 
Yards Returned 0 0
10 am. Sunday WNDU-TV (Ch. 16) 
TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 22 14 PUNTING G NO YDS AVG 
By Rushing 18 4 By Passing 4 8 Kiel 7 294 
Notre Dame-Mutual Radio Network 
Tony Roberts and AI Wester 
By Penalty 0 2
WNDU-AM 1500 
D DOWNS-CONV 5-15 0-11 NOTRE DAME 7 294 SERIES: Notre Dame 32, Purdue 19, Ties 2 
Percentage 333 000 OPPONENTS 7 276
IRISH 

POSSESSION TIME 3618 2342
LAST MEETING: Sept. 26, 1981 at West Lafayette 
PUNT RETM1nutes per G'lme 3618 23:42

Purdue 15, Notre Dame 14 
( 1-0) 
Duerson 3 8 2 7

RANKINGS: (AP) Notre Dame lOth, Purdue unranked 
TICKETS: 
RUSHING

Game is sold out 
G NO YDS AVG TO LG NOTRE DAME 
3 8 27 Moriarty 16 116 7 3 1 370PPONENTS 2 77 38 5 Bell 20 95 4 8 1 11 
P Carter 1 Brooks ~ ;~ ~ ~ g1~ KICKOFF RET NO YDS AVG TO


BOILERS 
2 1 0 5 0 9 -e-~~-----------­8 2 34170 018' NOTRE DAME 55 278 5. 1 2 37 p Carter 1 18 18 0 0 18:'


The Schedule 
( 0-2) 
OPPONENTS 

36 41 1 1 0 19 NOTRE DAME 3 52 17 3 0 
1~
OPPONENTS 5 87 17 4 0 25 

PASSING G NO CO PCT INT YDS TO DEFENSE
NOTRE DAME PURDUE 
TMTL-YDS PBU FR B 
SEPT. 18 beat MICHIGAN, 23-17 SEPT. 11 lost to STANFORD, 35-14 
1 22 15 682 0 141 0 Larkin 11 1-3
SEPT 25 PURDUE SEPT. 18 lost at Minnesota, 36-1 
Naylor 9 1-2 01 0 ~ NO 1 22 15 682 0 141 0
OCT. 3 at Michigan State SEPT. 25 at Notre Dame 
Zavagmn 7 0-0 0 1OPP 1 21 12 571 1 186 1
OCT. 9 MIAMI (FLA.) OCT. 2 WISCONSIN 
Clasby 6 14 0 0 () OCT 16 ARIZONA OCT. 9 at Illinois 
Autry 5 1-8 1 1 d RECEIVING G NO YDS AVG TO LG Gann 5 1-1 0 0 ()
OCT. 23 at Oregon OCT. 16 NORTHWESTERN 
Duerson 5 0-0 0 0 Q
OCT. 30 Navy at Meadowlands OCT. 23 at Michigan State 
Hunter 7 76 10 9 0 25 Mosley 4 0-0 0 0 (}NOV. 6 at Pittsburgh OCT. 30 at Ohio State 
Howard 2 31 15 5 0 22 Grtff1th 4 3-16 
1 0 C4 NOV. 13 PENN STATE NOV. 6 lOWA 
Bell 2 13 6 5 0 7 Toran 3 0-0 Monarty 2 7 35 0 6 Johnson 3 1-2
NOV. 20 at Air Force NOV. 13 at Michigan 
Jackson 9 90 0 9 Brown 2 1-3 ~ ~ ~ 
NOV. 27 at Southern Cal NOV. 20 INDIANA 
P Carter 5 50 0 5 Jackson 1 0-0 0 0 eX 


The Upset 
Saturday, Sept. 26, 19H I 
Scoring Notre Dame 0 7 

7 -14 Individual leaders Purdue 0 0 
7 8 -15 RUSHING-Notre Dame P Carter 21-113: C Sm1th 15·50: Brooks4-7: Sweeney 3-6: Bell1-3: Hun-NO PU ter 2-2: Koegel 3-(-19): Purdue· J Sm1th 15·59. 
F1rst downs 

13 17 Campbell14-32. Jordan 6-28. Jones 11-18. Owen 2­Aush1ng attempts 49 49 8: K1ng 1·2: Net Yards Rush1ng 160 148 PASSING-Noire Dame Koegel 10·14·1.161 Net Yards Pass1ng 161 246 Purdue: Campbell11-24-0.246. Passes comp-a«empted 10-14 11-24 RECEIVING-Noire Dame Maszlak 3-46: Brooks Had ,ntercepted 0 0 2-17: Sweeney 1·38. Boushka 1-25. Conden1 1-21. Total Net Yards 321 394 Mosley 1-7. Hunter 1·7: Purdue Bryant5-96. Benson Fumbles-lost 1-0 · 0-0 2-49. P1ckens 1-51. Jordan 1-29: J Smith 1-12. Lln­Penalt1es-yards 4-40 2-20 VIlle 1-9; Punts-average 6-36 5 5-37 2 Attendance-70.007 
The Sports Staff~s 

CHRIS NEEDLES  DAVE DZIEDZIC  WILL HARE  SKIP DESJARDIN  RICH O'CONNOR  
Sports Editor  Assoc. Sports Editor  Sports Writer  Sports Editor Emeritus  Sports Writer  
8-5-0.620  8-5-0.620  ~-5-0 .620  7-6-0 .540  6-7-0.460  
Pittsburgh over ILLINOIS by 6  Panthers  Panthers  Panthers  Panthers  lllini  
UCLA over MICHIGAN by 2  Bruins  Wolverines  Wolverines  Bruins  Bruins  
OHIO STATE over Stanford by 6  Buckeyes  Cardinal  Buckeyes  lhtckeves  Buckeyes  
Nebraska over PENN STATE by 3  Huskers  Lions  Lions  lluskers  Huskers  
Boston College over NAVY by 6  Eagles  Eagles  Eagles  Eagles  Eagks  
OKLAHOMA over Southern Cal by 2  Trojans  Trojans  Trojans  Sooners  Trojans  
MIAMI (FLA.) over Michigan State by 7  Spartans  Hurricanes  llurricanes  Spartans  llurricancs  
WASHINGTON over Oregon by 19  Huskies  II uskit's  lluskil'S  Huskies  lluskics  
S. MISSISSIPPI over Florida St. by 4  Eagles  Eagles  ~cminoles  Seminoles  Eagles  
ARIZONA over Iowa by~  Wildcats  llawkeyes  Wildcats  Wildcats  Wildcats  
INDIANA over Syracuse by 3  Hoosiers  Hoosiers  lloosit'rs  lloosit'rs  Orangeml·n  
""  NOTRE DAME over Purdue by 14  Irish  Irish  Irish  Irish  Irish  
I  




