
Sen. Williams claims 
com.plete innocence 
WASIIIN<iTON (AI')-St'11. liar­\X'illiams said. "I am completely in­rison A. Williams Jr. appealc:d to his nocent of all crimes and im­Senate colkagut·s yesterday not to propriety. I am fully confident I will expd him. saying he was a be exont·rated." "complt:tt:ly innocent" victim in Earlier yesterday, :vtajority Leader "this Ahst·am net so cruddy Howard Baker, R-Tenn., said he wrapped around mt·." would oppose an effort by 
lkdting the same phra~es the lkmocratic Whip Alan Cranston of 
Senate Ethics Committee used to California to have the Senate descriht· his conduct, Williams. D­censure rather than cxpt:l Williams, N.J., t·hargnt that the FBI employed as recommended by the ethics com­ilkgal, unconstitutional and mittee. "ethically repugnant" tactics to win Rt·puhlican sources said it was hrihery and conspiracy convictions unlikely that more than one or two againM him. of the 53 GOP members of the 
"I could havt· made it easier for Senate would support a censure you hy resigning," Williams said resolution to soften Williams' before a Senate chamber filled with punishment for "reprehensible" and mon· than HO of the I 00 members Votes on what kind of discipline on the second day of debate on his should he imposed likcly will begin expulsion. Monday. Although the outcome is 
But that "would have been a not certain, some senators say betrayal of the trust placed in me by privatcly that the case against Wil­the citizens of New Jersey in four liams is so strong that expulsion 
c:lections," he: said. seems likcly. Father Theodore Hesburgh signs a copy ofhis book who resided in Grace Hall who suffered an accident 
The 62-ycar-old Senate veteran "What the: Senate: of the: United for Grace Hall resident Mike Burton to help Grace and wasparalized. (Photo byjill Origer) said he had evidence which showed States docs, I will accept, I will Hall raise money for a former Notre Dame student FBI operatives fabricated parts ofthe respect," Williams told reporters case against him, misinterpreted shortly before: go ing into the cham­
Forum concludes 
what he said and later withheld ber to argue his innocence. evidence: that could have helped A federal jury in May convicted him win acquittal in the: court case:. Williams ofagreeing to use his office 


Hispanic authors represent future 
Using charts to demonstrate: some to assist a mining venture: in which of his points, he said he was the vic­he had an interest and trying to per­
By VIC SCIULLI eluded Wednesday evening in the received and which arc selling well tim of an overzealous FBI investiga­suade a wealthy Arab businessman 
SeniorStaffReporter Center for Continuing Education. in their native: countries. tion. to invest S I 00 million in the deal. 
Jose: Anadon, associate professor Author Arturo Azuda from "I thus carry on this mission not The businessman was an under­
Maturity, seriousness, and of Modern and Classical Languages Mexico, analyzed works of authors only for myselfon the personal level, cover FBI agent and the meetings 
serenity were: three themes at Notre Dame, felt that the: authors fernando del Paso, Alfredo Bryce but as part of the constitutional im­were filmed and later played to both 
prevalent throughout The Present who particiaptcd in the forum Eccniquc, jose Maria Vaz de Soto, perative at a time when this great the federal court jury and the 
and Future ofHispanic Literatures represented the new generation of and Jose Emilio Pacheco, which he document is severc:ly threatened," senators considering Williams' case. 
forum. The international event con-young writers which recognized the believed are contemporary classics. influence: of previous masters like: These four authors also participated Borges, Onetti, and Garda Marquez. in the colloquium. 
The: authors, however, also Five: professors from the Univer­
Bid-ngging suggested 
stressed the importance of in­sities of California, Maryland, Cln­dividuality in writing, talking par­cinatti, Michigan, and Kentucky ticularly about their own works. In were also invited to serve as

Department expands charges 
their presentations, Anadon felt that moderators for the six sessions held 
WASHINGTON (AP) The several felony charges have been for documents on all highway the authors assumed both a critical over the two-day forum. These attitude toward their own writings professors, experts in their ficld of
Justice Department has quietly ex­brought against I 19 corporations projects from 1977 through 1980. 
panded into five new and to the works ofothers. study, introduced the authors, com­
states in its and 147 of their executives in I0 And sources said a federal grand jury Spanish author Jose :vtaria Vaz de mented on specific writings, and
hunt for highway builders who rig states. Some have been charged has begun work in Pittsburgh on their bids on public contracts. Soto stressed the importance of in­guided the discussions.
more than once. Pennsylvania contractors. dividuality in writing, saying "An Anadon was very pleased with the
Federal grand juries arc now operat­So far, it's only been one corpora­In addition, Sheehan said that ing in I H states in the largest author's perception or view of the success of the forum as many stu­
tion and three executives who have grand juries have been weighing world is the most important thing he dents approached the authors and
criminal antitrust investigation in been acquitted in trials. possible cases for some time in Ken­has to offer and the thing that will exchanged views on various sub­
U.S. history. Sources said that subpoenas were tucky, Arkansas and one other state and remem­
AJustice Department spokesman going out to every road-building which has never been publicly idc:n­endure will be best jects. acknowledged yesterday that since firm that worked on New Hampshire _tified. bered." Because of the importance of the Authors Alfredo Bryce Echenique umferencc, Anadon feels that the
I>n-cmbt·r grand juries have begun projects. The state's attorney Overall, between 30 and 35 of Pcru and ).). Armas .'11arcclo of University would like to encourage
work in Iowa, Maryland, New general, Gregory Smith, said yester­department lawyers arc working on llamp!>hire and Oklahoma. He day, "Subpoenas have gone out to Spain presented their latest novels, and continue similar events in the declined to identify the tlfth state, businesses in New Hampshire and SeeJUSTICE, page 5 works which have been well-future. but government sources, who asked other parts ofthe region as the initial not to be namt·d, said it was Pennsyl­stage of the federal invcstigation." vania. Last weekend, Oklahoma highway NDgetsfour starsThe investigation began three oftkials said the Justice Depart­rears ago in Tennessee, and so far. ment's antitrust division had asked 


Recent college guide 'createsstir ' 
By LEE MITGANG ccptivc and quite accurate write­sometimes approaches the "Animal Associated Press up," says Marion Kane, llousc" stereotypc. "The fraternities 

A guidebook that gives stars to spokeswoman from the tiny College more than anything else set the tone colleges as if they were restaurants, ofthe Atlantic in Bar Ha of the social life at Dartmouth; that quips that venerable Dartmouth favorably, there have been less kind rowdy and just a bit obnoxious." 
College resembles the film "Animal words. Objections have centered on That image, Dartmouth spokes­
By MARGARET FOSMOE Chapski (setr~9i'Y), and and R<)l~ /i 
House," and that is written by The the book's occasionally wise­man Robert Graham said, is "totally
Nt•ws AssM14nt ly Pow~r{tre;ts~rer). .·.·...•.•• .· . < \ 
New York Times's education editor, cracking tone, gripes with the star overdone and exaggerated."
Winners ft>r th~ Class of'BSJ6~ l 
was bound to create a stir on rating system, the method ofgather­For Brown University in Rhode Is­
Officers for the classes of '83 dud¢: M>t~ Nagy {presid.ent), ), 
land, the book was a sweet victory

and '85 wen: eh:cted yesterday In Connt~·:.o-e,ien..(:V~.; pr~$ident}~ .:···.· America's campuses. ing information, and occasional It has. lapses in accuracy. over its Ivy League rivals. Fiske gave
a run-off dcctlon that prQdtK"ed a JJttmifer·.Brown (secr~a~ry ), 1111\d •.••.•.••._:_~.·

1 "The New York Times Selective the school top "five-star" ratings for
"phenomenal turnout", accor~· Guy Strkk.lan.d (tt!i!asurer). Wcit'Q ' 
Guide To Colleges," by Edward B. 1 .both academics and "quality of life,"
ing to OBUD officials. 51/7 percent of the vore. Thi~ 1 
Fiske, who has been on the educa­and four stars for social life, edging

Winners fur the dass()f'S~ In­ticket d¢featc~ tb~ team of ca,;; tion beat for 8 years, has sparked 
out Harvard University which got
clude:: Mark Mai (president~ herine David (ptel*l¢nt~ .):· 
more comment and controversy fivt· stars for academics but four for
Kathy Ray (vice: pn:si~oknt ), &an Thomas Lczyru>ki (vke pn:$( : 
than any college guide book in quality oflife and three for social life.
-. ----­
Malonc:y ( ~crctary ), and Pauy dc:nt); .. Eill!en . . . Queen~ ,_·•.• 
~·--"'l,,,,.r~·i:O .~ ..... ,._~·~
memory. Cornell University president
Cooney (treasurer), with 56.6 (secretary), and M~ch~~~h~Di~~ 

percent of the vutt.-s. The win· ( trcastmtr). ··-·•.•·· ... The book, which provides impres­The overall reaction, Fiske said in ning ticket defeated the ream of Turnout fur the d(:<:Uon was .·· sionistic essays on 265 top colleges, a recent interview, "has been \'t:ry 
Frank ti.T. Rhodes was so gladdened and assigns from one to five stars for 
by Fiske's review of the Ithaca, N.Y.,

Bill Hennessey (president), Tom cstima~ed at ?~ aQ~ ]!.pt:l:'~e"t. , encouraging."
respe¢tlvely. · · · ·· ·· ··. · · · ·· · · ' academic quality, social life, and school, and the five-star rating for
O'Brien (vice president). AnM Although awarding Dartmouth 



overall "quality of life," drew praise five stars for academics and social 
See FOCUS,page 5 

from some colleges: "it gave a per-life, Fiske: comments that the school 
·---,., 
_;~:,....-. 



ewsBrieb 

By The ( Jbserver and The Associated Press 
Archaeologists peeling away the many-layered heart of old Mexico City are finally about to put their most spec­tacular find on display -the remains of the fabled Great Temple of the Aztecs. The site may become the biggest tourist attraction in ruins-rich Mexico and certainly will be the most accessible. The ex­cavation, the size offour football fields, is situated just offthe central plaza that is the focal point of this sprawling city. After the Great Temple opens to the public this September, visitors will be able to get a close-up look at the centerpiece of the complex native culture that Hernando Cortes and his conquistadors found when they en­tered Mexico City -the Aztec capital of Tenochtitlan -in 1519. From the top ofthe pyramidal temple, the Aztec ruler Moctezuma II -also known as Montezuma) showed Cortes the city spread out below, one of such "excellence and grandeur," the Spaniard later wrote,"... that in Spain there is nothing to compare." But the temple was also the place where tens ofthousands ofpeople were sacrificed to the gods of rain and war. The huge structure stood 200 feet high and extended 2'50 feet on each side, comparable to the great churches of Christendom. The conquering Spaniards tore it down stone by stone, in a process that may have taken 14 years. The vol­canic rock was then used to raise the new Spanish colony's massive cathedral which still stands nearby. -AP 
Mainland China plans to trim 1 million men from its huge peasant army as part of a modernization drive, foreign diplomatic sources said yesterday. ln addition, an aging corps of venerable generals, idle but entrenched, is to be retired, their privileges intact. The remaining soldiers -who will till make up the world's biggest army -will be put into new uniforms with new insignia restoring the traditional ranks abolished in the Cultural Revolution. Plans to cut the army and turn it into a lean. efficient fighting machine had been reported before, but the size of the cuts had not. Diplomatic sources familiar with military affairs, asking not . 10 be identified. said China plans to reduce the army gradually from th<: current strength. a littk more than '5 million, t to about 4 million. Ddense .Ministry oftlcials dt:clined comm<:nt on the size of the army, plannnl reductions and th<: number of soldkrs demobilized last 
)Tar. -AP 
Some ofBroadway's biggest names took to the sidt:walk yest<:rday for a marathon dramatic reading in protest of plans to tear down two historic theat<:rs for a 2,000-room hotel. Bundled up against a snowstorm in ov<:rcoats, furs and hats, Lauren Bacall, Jason Robards, James Earl Jones, Anne Meara, Christopher Reev<:, Elizabeth Ashley and others took turns reading from the eight Pulitzer Prize-winning plays produced at th<: Helen Hayes and .VIorosco theaters. Producer Jost:ph Papp, wearing a hardhat, stood on a platform in front of the Morosco on West 4'5th Street and told hundr<:ds of cheering noontime spectators that the protest would continue until both theaters arc saved. A state appeals judge had said he would ruk on the fate of the theaters Friday, but U.S. Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall on yesterday stayed any. demoli­tion "pending receipt ofa response and further order" by Marshall or the full court. Protest organizers said the marathon would continue, at least through Friday. The city wants to tear down the small playhouses and replace them with a modernistic hotel of glass and steel designed by architect John Portman ofAtlanta. Three theaters already have been torn down to make way for the hotel, which the 
city says will be the centerpiece of a revitalization of the seedy theater district and Times Square. Other actors and actresses, mainly unknowns, planned to relieve the stars and continue the readings until at least Friday night. -AP 

Secretary ofState Alexander Haig says Guatemala is on the verge ofa crisis similar to that in El Salvador, one that could pose "a very fundamental threat" to the security of Mexico. It is only "a matter of wee t ks or months" before Guatemala enters a crisis that poses even greater potential for damaging U.S. interests than the internal problems in El Salvador, Haig said in an interview published yesterday by the Los Angeles Times. "It's not a question ofone black chip (domino) knocking over another," Haig told the Times at a press conference in Washington on Wednesday, "but it is a clear, self-influencing sequence ofevents which could sweep all ofCentral America into a Cuba-dominated region." That would "put a very fundamental threat on Mexico in the very predictable future," he said. The newspaper called it the gravest and most specific warning the Reagan administration has issued during its campaign against what it calls Cuban and Soviet intervention in Latin America. A guer­rilla threat to Mexico from the direction of Guatemala and El Sal­vador could be particularly dangerous because Mexico's vast oil fields lie in its southern region, near those two cuntries. -AP 
Mosdy cloudy today with a chance of morning flurries. High in the mid to upper 20s. Clear and cold tonight. Low in the mid to upper teens. Partly sunny tomorrow. High in the upper 20s to low 30s. Chance of measurable snow decreasing to less than 20 percent today. -AP 
THENROTC SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM. TUITION PLUS $2,000 EXPENSE MONEY ANDA NAVY OFFICERCOMMISSION 

Thl" two-year NROTC 2 year Scholarship P!·ogram offers tuition Plus two years of expense money that's worth up to s:::.JOO, and the challenge of becoming a Navy Officer with early responsibilities and decision-making authority. 
During your last two years in college the Navy pays for tuition, uniforms,-all textbooks and an allowance of $100 a month for up to 20 months. Upon graduation and completion of requirements, you become a Navy Officer, with important· decision-making responsibilities. 
Call your Navy representative for more infonnation on this challenging program. 
NROTC UNIT, UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 239-6442 

NAVY OFFICERS GET RESPONSIBILITY FAST 


j. Ross Baughman, a contract photographer for Newsweek, is carried off a helicopter on a stretcher after he was injured by a land mine near Cinquera 70 kilometers north ofthe El Salvador Capital. 


President of El Salvador jose Napoleon Duarte .BOO people that ·Et Salvador's upcoming elections gestures as he makes a speech in a port Gity 34 .were critical not on~v to El Salvador, but all of kilometers south of the Capital. Duarte told dbout America. 
Oeslgn Editor ........ .Mike Last Night Monk Design Assistants....................... Mike Quill Tim FarreU 1:vpesel/er ............... Bobjudgt· .Veu•• Assistant............... Dave Rickabaugh Copv Editors ........................... Paul :\lcGinn 
FeatureS Layout .................... Greg Swic:n:z 
Sports Copy Editor.................. Ed Konrady Typist ....................................... laura Degnan NO Day Editor ................ Tom :\laclennan Ad Design ................................................John Sports Special Layout... ....... :\like Ortman· Photographer....)ill The New Girl Origer GuestAppearances .. :\!iami)ot: Rod, The 
Rol:hc:stcr Gang, Four on a t.:ouch 
The Observer !USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays except dunng exam and vacat•on penods The Observer 1s published by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Marys Col­lege Subscnptlons may be purchased for $25 per year($ t 5 per semester) by wnt1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd•ana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
AP 




Phot File 
Friday, March 5, 1982 -page 2 
A six-year-old refugee Hugo walks past a group of other war orphans in this or­phanage 19 kilometers south of San Sal­vador. More than 10,000 children have been· orphaned as a result of political violence in this Central American nation. 

The Observer Friday, March 5, 1982 -page 3 


Students discussed the problems in/;'/ Salvador in a meeting ofthe NJJ-S.HC El Salvador Solidarity group. (Photo byjill Origer) 

Mitterandsupports recognition ofIsrael 
JEIH ISAI.E.\1 (AP) -Presitknr long as it derides .the principle of the Francois :\1itterrand of France, split-right of existence of brad and its ting with the standard European means of protecting its security." position on thl· Middle East. said yes-At a joint news conference with tcrday the Palestine Liberation Or-Prime :\1inister Mcnachem Begin, ganization must recognize Israel if it :\1ittcrrand appeared skeptical about hopes to join peace negotiations. the Camp David plan for Palestinian 
In a speech to the Israeli Parlia-self-rule::. He noted that Israel, Egypt ment, or Kncssct, :\1itterrand said and the llnitcd States had not been the Palestinians should "determine able to draw other Arabs into discus­their fate" but on the condition that sion on the autonomy plan and said, they-"respcct the right of others, in "This docs not seem to me to bring their rcspn·t of international law, about a profound change." 
and in a dialogue that takes the place The French president said he of violenCl'." 
planned an official visit to jordan in 
In 19HO, the European Common three months, apparently a turthcr Market took a stand on the Middle effort to deal evenhandedly with Is­East that ranklc:s lsrac:l because th 
racl and its Arab neighbors. Europeans 1.:alled for Palc:stinian sc:lf-Asked if his visit had changed any­determination and for the PLO to be thing in French-Israeli relations, associated with Mideast peace :\1itterrand said: "The change is in negotiations. my presence. It has a certain sig­:\1itterrand told the Knessct he nificance." disapprovl·d of the European decla-Begin, addressing the Knessct af­ration in Venice because it ter Mittcrrand, proposed a "implicitly distanced" Europe from ":\1editerranean charter" that would the Camp David peace accords. "I hind nations of the troubled region 
preferred a peace that is made bit by to pledges of peaceful relations and bit to a peace that is not made at all," urged that France promote the idea. he said. 
Asked about French plans to But e still gave firm emphasis to rebuild the Iraqi nuclear reactor the Palestinian poblem. If not destoyed in june by lsrac:li bombers,resolved, he said, "it will wt:igh 
.\1itterrand said, "France vows not to tragic and durable on this region of 
supply any dements that would per­
the world." 
mit any risk of nuclear war in anyThe PLO, Mitterrand said, "cannot 
region of the world." He did not hope to be at the negotiating table as 
c:laborate. 

Reagan lacks support 
Business leaders oppose deficits 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Business reduce spending on Social Sl·curity leaders, shoulder-to-shoulder with and other programs tied to an President Reagan in the 19H I automatic cost-of-living adjustment budget battle, are breaking ranks and consider changes in the tax this year because they fear the large reduction program approved last deficits Reagan proposes will choke year. off an economic recovery. Thus far, Reagan has held firmly 
The intlucntial Business against lowering his defense budgc:t Roundtable, whose members run or reversing his tax 1.:ut plan. 200 of the nation's largest corpora­Budget dirc:ctor David A. Stol·k­tions, was the latest corporate back­man told a li.S. Chamber of Com­er of Reagan's to complain. It said merce mc:eting yc:stcrday the: nation yesterday it docs not believe has "no choice" but to stick with the record deficits the administration prc:sidc:nt's policies to "end the projects arc "adequately curs.: of inflation one~ and t(Jr all, 
addressed." even if it means short-run economic Increasingly, executives are ur-· and t1scal difficulties." -ging Reagan to brake somewhat the He dc:scribed as "temporary" high increases he proposes for defense, interest and jobless rates and rising 
Activists apply for permission to leave 
WARSAW, Poland (AP)-:\1artial law authorities said yc:sterday that more than a dozen people interned since the Dc:cembcr dragnet have applied for permission to leave Poland permanc:ntly, the: official PAP news agency reportc:d. 
The majority of the: thousands in­terned arc Solidarity union acitivists and lc:adc:rs. 
Col. Hipolit Starszak of the Inte­rior :\1inistry told a news conference: the internees applied for emigration passports that were offered for the first time Wednesday. 
He did nor name the intcrncc:s or give their precise number. 
In Washington, State Department spokesman Dc:an Fischc:r said the passport offer was "a cynical and deplorable move" and that the "net cffc:ct is forced deprivation of citizenship ... and permanent exile, all without due process." 
In London, the British govern­ment said it condemned "any at­tempt (by the Polish gvernmc:nt) to exercise pressure on those con­cerned to leave the country against their will." 
~u;--1 
Observer 

advertisements ! 
L...J 
!50'sDance! i Contest i
: •.....•. : 
• Sat. march 6 • : Half-time Girls :
•: 8-Ballgame •: 
Ust prize-Dinner for: : 2 at Steak & Ale : 
:2nd&3rd-: 
:pig trough at Farrell's:
: ......... : 
• Sign up at 1:30 and • : throughout first half : • ofgame • 
Poland's official PAP news agency, reporting Starszak's news con­ference, quoted him as saying that 64 more Poles were intl·rned recently aftt:r hiding or indicating "by their bc:havior" that they were likely to undertake "harmful action." 
He also said authorities had con­fiscated nearly 700 t1rearms ranging from home-made ritles to carbines and machint: guns and a great 
amount  of  ammunition  and  cx­ 
plosivc:s  sinct:  martial  law  was  
imposed Dec 13.  

He said 2 19 people: were released from internmc:nt centers, and that the: total number of internees does not now c:xcc:c:d 4,000. 
Starszak also said 42.000 Poles have returned from abroad since martial law was declared, and that 96,000 remained abroad. 
In a move to c:ncourage Poles abroad to return home, Starszak said Poles could return even if tht:ir pas­sports had expired or even if they had applied for asylum and then changed their minds. 
bankruptcies and said they arc "a prelude to thl· rccovt:ry." 
Executives, however, worry that the projected dctkit t s will kt'l'P in­terest rates high, which will hurt the already-suffering auto, housing and thrift industries, lc:ad to mort· busi­nl'SS failures and dday investment plans. The l·nd result, some fear, will he to abort any strong rccovc:ry this year from the: current severe reces­sion. 
In a cautious statement, the Busi­ness Roundtable: called t(Jr "major. pnmancnt spending cuts" in future budgets to slow increases in dcfl'nSl' programs and reduce payments for bencl1t programs tkd to cost-of­living adjustments. 
The Roundtable: also said "it will be necessary to address tht· revenue side" but did not daborare on what tax changes it wants. 
Leaders of the hard-hit thrift and housing industries last wcc:k urged Reagan to lower tht· deficits. They told Reagan he has "no alternative" but to reduce spending in defense and bent:fit programs, and if nn·es­sary, put off planned tax reductions or raise taxes. 
"The deficits are clearly bothering people' said Richard Rahn, chief economist for thl' 2 IH,OOO-member Chamber ofCommerce. 
Dimitri V. D'Arbcloff, l'hairman of \1illipore Corp. in lkdord, .\1ass., a high-technology firm, said com­promises should be made in the budget to "try to chip away" at the looming dctkits. 
"Tht:re is an awful lot of conn·rn over the impal't those (deficit) num­bers might have on interest rates," said Jack Albertine, president of the American Business Conference. which rt:prcsents 7'; fast-growing companks. II is group plans to meet shortly with members of Congress to urge further reductions in the budget proposals. 
Rt:agan projects a I9H3 deficit of S91.S billion, followed by SH2.9 bil­lion in 1984. Those deficits arc con­tingent upon Congress approving large spending cuts in non-defc:nse programs. \1any analysts, howcvr, arc forecasting even bigger deficits in 1983 and I9H4. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
I-_'; 1-­I  an tostal Staj:r meettnq SunOay, ITiaRch 7 7 pm  : t I  
t ·  laJ=oRtUn€ bttl€theatR€  :  
t  "  €V€Ryon€ W€lcom€  t  

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

Friday, March 5, 1982-page 4 
Panel discussion 
Two-career family causes change 


ByGREGORYS~ERCZ 
Features Editor 
Changing trends in the ei:~er­gence oftwo career families was the topic in a panel discussion yesterday at Saint Mary's. 
The presentation marked the fourth event in the Women in the Workplace Series sponsored by the Counseling and Career Develop­ment Center Program. 
Three couples opened the talk by telling their own life histories. Kay 
Yesterday a discussion of two-career families was and Doug Cochrane both stressed heard at LeMans Hall. See Gregory Swiercz's story at the mutual compromises needed for right. (Photo byjill Origer) the dual career family life to exist. 
trust and compromise the panel felt 
.....,...~........,.~.......,.....,._.....,....,.....,........,....,.............,.~ ..........................................~..-....,...........,...~ .......,..~ ................,...~ .......~...-....,....,............,..........~...,............,.., 
was needed in two-career families. 
.. Relationships are all com­promise." said Doug Cochrane. He felt he has "gained as much as
l\ GREAT STARTS WITH l\ given." Cochrane had given up his established insurance clientele in Buffalo, New York, in order for is wife to take on a counseling job at
I ALITTLE L ALlm.E BEER, !
Saint Mary's College.
l ANDALOTOF 
~ When the guys at Miller asked me tol write an ad on writing, I said, "Forget it. J Not even if you held a gun to my head:' So \ they held a bottle of Lite Beer to my mouth. r They're a pretty persuasive group. 
J THUGS TO MUGS 
\ If you're going to write anything, know 
what you're talking about. And that means ri three things: Research, research, and J more research. The more you know, the \ more you can tell your reader. 
r Take my characters. A lot of them I J base on actual people. There's this buddy \ of mine who pops up in every book I write. i In one story he's a cop. In another, a pri-. r vate eye. Once, I made him a millionaire. J Using him not only helped make character \ development a heck of a lot easier, he was \ so carried away by the rich image, he 
bought me a lot of free dinners (and a lot of Lite Beer from Miller). So use the people you know as models. 

1 
\ 
~ 
r 
1 
~ 
~ 
l 
\ 
\ 
\ 
\ 
~ 
~ 
\ 
~ 
r 
J 
\ i\ 
\ \ ~ ~ gi ~ "3 
r l 
J ~ ~ 8 
g> 
-~ 

~ 
[ ~ J ~ 
) ~ 
l ~
~ 
Even locations should be based on real things. If you're writing about a bar, know that bar. Hang out there. Watch the bartender. The customers. Whatever they drink, you drink. When they drink Lite Beer, you drink Lite Beer. Re­member-research is most fun when you soak up as much subject matter as 
0 a It Only help You · t
Y u c n. can pam a better picture. 
HI, DOLL 
No caper is complete without dames (or ladies in proper English). Experience has shown me that in mystery writing, the sexier the dames, the better. Experience has also shown me that sexy scenes make great punctuation marks. This is where research has the greatest potential. Use your own discretion in this matter. But when you write about it, don't be too explicit. That way, your reader gets to paint a more vivid picture. 
by Mickey Spillane 
The Cochranes, 1970 graduates of ning day-to-day household chores in Saint Mary's and Notre Dame spare time. respectively, spoke of drastic Mary Jo Regan and John Kubinski changes in their lives when Kay spoke of switched "breadwinning" decided to return to work. "It was roles. Regan, a teacher at Saint like getting married again," stated Mary's, is supporting the family Doug. while Kubinski completes graduate 
Becky Stoddart and David James studies. When finished, Kubinski discussed the different ways society will work while Regan tlnishes her views their lifestyle. James pointed schooling. out the difficulties in competing All three couples agreed to the with people unaffected by the division of household chores. James problems associated with two stated the advantages in rotating career families. Other career­duties to relieve boredom; both he orientated persons only get "job­and Doug Cochrane said that they tired," while the two career family enjoyed doing dishes. person pulls "double duty" by run-.\1uch emphasis was placed on the 
CAPER TO PAPER 
O.K., you've got your characters, loca­tions, and dames lined up. Now comes the good part: Putting your caper to paper. There's no mystery to it. As long as you write the ending first, the rest will follow. Write short, terse, to-the-point sentences. Be as clear as possible. And make sure you've got the right stuff around for when 
you get thristy. After all, writing is pretty thirsty work. 
I suggest a couple of mugs of Lite Beer-who ever heard of a caper that didn't involve a couple of mugs? 
Why Lite Beer? It's a lot like me and my books-great taste, less filling (some people can't get their fill of my books), and always good to spend time with. 
At any rate, follow my advice and, who knows-you might turn out a heck of a story. Or you might turn out to be a heck of a Lite Beer drinker. 
I 
The panel attacked some of the myths t in an article in thejournal of College Placement by Denise ~ 
Dwight Gingrich titled "The Dual Career Couple Dilemma." One of r the false assumptions refuted by the l panel is the myth that neither of the ~ partners will have to compromise r their careers for an equal relation­
1 

ship. Becky Stoddart indicated that 
~ 

the deep-seeded committment in rJ most career persons is com-
r J promised to some extent. James \ stated that his jol:) was flexible \\ enouhgh that heakcould have time to stay orne and t e care ofhis child. r The series continues with a dis-J cussion March 25 entitled Women \ in Management. 
r ============= 
1 
r 

i ~ J Col. Khadafy 
~ 

~ threatens 
J

Iwaraction 
\ lea~~~R~~·. ~~::0~aSA~a;a:¢~~~ ~ his nation will go to war against the
I~~:;e:f s;i~;; :~~~;r~;d~~~~~~~e~~~ 
J where U.S. and libyan jets tangled \ last August. 
~ Si~·:!. ~~;r:~at:ent~~ :::seG~:ft~: 
l word will begin between us, war \ with planes, navies, missiles and \ everything. The Gulf of Sidra is part r ofLibya's territory and sovereignty," J Khadafy was quoted as saying in a ~ speech to a mass rally in Tripoli \ Wcdncsday. 
r Libya's official JANA news agency J distributed excerpts of the speech 
~ here yesterday. 
\ Libya last year claimed 
~ sovereignty over entire GulfofSidra, 
r which extends nearly 200 miles into 
l the Mediterranean from the .Libyan 
~ coast between the Libyan ports of \ Benghazi and Tripoli. ~ The Reagan administration r declared it recognized only a 12­J mile band along the coast as Libyan ~ territorial waters and ordered the l U.S. 6th Fleet into the gulf for J maneuvers last August. \ Two U.S. F-14 jets shot down two r of Libya's Soviet-made SU22 jets in al dogfight during the naval drills some 1 60 miles offthe Libyan coast Aug. 19. ~ U.S.-Libyan relations have plum­~ meted since the incident. ~ In his speech Wednesday, the ~t radical Arab leader also was quoted l as saying the United States was 
~ 

iii Lm BEER FROM MIWR. determined to fight his regime in or­[ a; ~ der to weaken Libya's potential in ~ ~ MmHING YOU ALWAYS WANTED ~ supporting the Palestinian guerrilla 
L 
1 ~ IN ABEER. AND LESS. r movement. ~ ~ l Khadaty also attacked Saudi ~ Arabia and jordan. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
The Observer Friday, March 5, 1982 -page 5 
...Focus 


continued from page I 
academics, that he recently selll a ma.,s-mail leiter 10 "parents and frknds" 10 ~pread the tidings. 
Tykr Resch, a spokesman for Bt·n­nmgwn Colle~e in Vermont, whk·h Fi!'>kc says "takcs a kind of pl'rversc pridc" in bdn~ tht· nation's most cx­pc:nsivt· school. says thc book was a "fair asscssmt·m." cvcn thou~h the .~dlOol got just thrn· stars ti>r at·atkmks. 
St·vcral schools ft:lt they wnc ~hort-t·han~cd by tht· star ratin~s. hut had no quarrd with thc book it­sdf 

"Basically I'd say the description of our school was accurate," says Dick Conklin, a spokesman for the University of Notre Dame, although he fdt it rated tlvc stars instead of thc four fiskt· gavt·. 
Richard Cycrt, president of Carncgk-Mcllon University in Pitts­burgh, said: "we fclt he treated us nicely hut we should have been clas­sified 'tivc' on at:adcmics rather than 'fiJUr.' But I thought Fiske: had a good fed for our school." 
Thc star-ratin~ systc:m irkc:d Lc:on Boltstc:in, prt·sidcnt of Bard Collc:gc: in Annalt--on-tludson, N.Y.. which received three stars fi.>r academics: "Suddenly I fed like I'm in the res­taurant business. What offended me is a glib tone about the most serious businc:ss there is." 
Sara Wyc, actmg university rela­tions director at The University of Rhode Island which came away with just two stars in allthrn· categories, bristlt-s at Fiske's remark: "as long as you don't ask much of URI, it won't ask much ofyou." 
Colby Collegt· in Waterville, Maine, so far is the only school which ha.~ persuaded Fiske he gave too few stars. I lc ha.~ agreed to raise the school's academic rating in the next edition to four stars from the current three. 
fiske counters that "we did not at first get back all the questionnaires from the administration. The in­formation that (Colby President William) Cotter came back with af. t<.·r the book was out was at least in part the information we originally asked for and didn't get." 
Some critics say that Fiske's mc:thod -sending questionnaires to administrators who in turn were asked to give other questionnaires to randomly selected students ­was error-prone. 
Some examples: Sweet Briar Col­kgc: was dc:scribed in the guide a.o; bdng in "Virginia's lovcly Shenan­doah Valley.:• Says President Harold Whitman: "wc:'re not. We're on the 
continued from page 1 
the project, whkh has produn·d nt·w statistical techniques for identifying patterns of collusive bids. 
l'dony charg<.'s wt-rc brought against huiltkrs who conspired to rig their scakd bids so they could determine in advann· who would get state highway and airport con­~truction contracts. The schemes drove up the cost of hghway proJt'Cts, but no one: em say how mtll'h. 
In some southt·astern stat~:s, wht·re tht· investigation has con­ccntrt~·d. highway departments have rcportl'd diftkulty t1nding buil­d<.'rs bccaWi<.' virtually all major con­tranors have bec:n at least t~·mporarily barrt·d from biddin~ as a c:astcrn silk of the Blue: Ridge: :vtoun­tains." Otherwise, Whitman said, Fiske's descriptio of the school was "rather good." 
University of :'\lew Hampshire is said by Fiske to be in an "isolated set­ting in the White .\tountains." Says John Hose, cJu:cutive assistant to the prc:sidt•nt of UNH: "it missc:d the: geography of this institution by 120 miles. I'm sure it was just an over­sight, but I suppose it makes one wonder whether there were any other ovnsi~hts." 
Buildings at the University of :\1in­ncsota arc said to be l'Otmectcd by "undnground tunnds or skyways." U of:1.1 spokt·swomanjcanne Hanson says the campus has no skyways. 
Fiskt· defends his book, stars and all, and says the c:rrors arc being cor­rc:ned. "When we do the book over again, I think we would usc exactly the same method." 
"If we: had spent five yc:ars, and visitc:d every campus, some mistakes 
arc still inevitable," he says. "There A lecture yesterday, entitled "Tax Resistance: A Case wasn't anything in this book that Stud)•", was given in the Memorial Library Lounge. 
someone on each campus didn't tdl us." 
Williamsconviction still questionable 
ATLANTA (AP) -Wayne Wil­to two consecutive life prison terms liams' dcfi:nsc lawyer made a big following his conviction Saturday point ofclaiming, in his summation, ...;hct Dcttlingcr, a private inves­
that the murders of young blacks tigator who did some work for the 
had not stopped with his client's ar­Williams defense, admits that most rc:st. ofthe later cases involved shootings, "Black men of Mr. (Nathaniel) while none of the victims linked 
Cater's and Mr. (Jimmy Ray) Payne's with Williams was shot. 
ages arc still bcin murdered in this According to the Georgia crime community," attorney Alvin Binder center statistics, 26 of the 29 young told the jurors, who a few days later blacks killed from june through were to convict Williams of killing Dt·cembcr were shot. One was Cater, 27, and Payne, 2 I. stabbed and the causes of death for Binder's statement was correct. tht• other two were undetermined. Georgia Crime Information Center Dcttlinger pointed out that the statistics show that from june I first case assigned to the task force through Dec. 31, 1981, 29 black -the 1979 death of 14-ycar-old Ed­men age 30 and younger were slain ward Hope Smith -was a shooting, in Fulton County, which includes At­and the cause ofdeath in some ofthe lanta. other cases was never determined. 
But Atlanta Public Safety Commis­Smith's death was not attributed to sioner Lee Brown said none of those Williams. killings fits the pattern of the 28 slayings that were assigned to a spe­cial police task force over 22 months Denlinger also contends that before Williams came to police at­some later victims have geographi­tention last May. cal links to task force victims. Some 
The task force cases were "young lived ncar earlier victims, and others people, black, from low-income were found ncar where earlier families, were reported missing, and bodies were discovcrc:d, ht: said. we found their bodies away from where they were killed," Brown said in an interview Thursday. 

"We sec absolutely nothing that connects these (later) cases," he said. 
Williams, a 23-ycar-old black free­lance photographer, was sentenced 
The lecture was sponsored by Pax Christi. (Photo by jill Orlger) 
THE 

NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S THEATRE PRESENTS 
THE WILD DUCK 
BY HENRIK IBSEN 
FEBRUARY 26,27; MARCH 4,5 ,6 8=00 PM WASHINGTON HALL 
I 
FOR INFORMATION CALL 284-4176 Opening night patrons will receive one col'!lplimentary ticket f~r each regularly purchased ticket_ 
FIVE NORTH APARTMENTS 
Efficiencies, 1 & 2 Bedrooms, starting at $151 
• 
AIR CONDITIONING 

• 
CARPETING 

• 
FULL KITCHEN FACILITIES 

• 
POOL 

• 
LAUNDRY FACILITIES 


1819 N. 5th NILES Just North of Town

.justice
' ' 

result of the investigation. 
So far. "0 corporations and 99 l'X­ccutivt·s have pleaded guilty. Eight other corporations and I 3 in­dividuals have hecn convicted at tri­al. Four t'orporations and four individuals wer<.' allowed to pkad no contest. 
Thirty-five corporation and 27 in­dividuals arc awaiting trial. An in­dictment against a Tennessee executive: was doppnl in return for his agreement to pkad guilty to two others. 
Basically, the defendants have becn charged with violating the anti­prit'c:-t1xing provisions of the ~her­man Antitrust Act. There also have b~·t·n charges of mail fraud and false declarations to a grand jury or to a state agency. 
LEAVI NOTRI DAMI 
5:30a.m. 6 30 a.m 8:30a.m. 10 30 a.m. 1230p.m 2:30p.m 4.30 p.m 6 30 p.m 
UBJVI O'HA.RI 
7:00a.m 8 00 a m. 
10:00 a.m 
12 00 noon 2:00p.m 4 00 p.m. 6 00 p.m. 8 00 p.m 

LEAVI NOTRIDAMI 
9:38a.m 1118 a.m 2:38p.m 3 28 p.m. 6 OJ p.m. 7:03p.m. 
10 10 a.m 11 50 a.m 
3.10 p.m 4 00 p.m 6 35 p.m. 7 35 p.m 

~----~----~--~------------~-------~-~------------~------­
The Observer Friday, March 5, 1982-page 6 


This snow covered bridge at Saint Mary's gives one the impres­sion that winter may not be as bad as it looks outside your win­dow. (Photo byjill Origer) ­

t982tlaek~Aw mtwae 'Fa61dmt Skow. CmtutUHee ~wem: FASH90K SHOW &UAKCe 
8:00FKt SaWtuLay, KtMdt 6 Kfmtog'WKt Ro!Jtt A.C.C. 
$3.50/1Je100K $4.00 atdmvt 
TickW OK aafe at13fuclt ~Ofl,iu 345 O'~y 

Bargam Mat1nee 



SUMMEI. S!OBAGE SPAOE 
Special discount for XDISMC students 
CALL 259-0335 to RESERVE SPACE SELF LOCK STORAGE 01' MCKIIILEY 816 East Me Kinley Mishawaka 
Security Patrol Checks 

Nodanger 
Depression unlikely says Reagan 
SANTA BARBARA, Calif. (AP) ­

President Reagan, vacationing at his 
secluded ranch on his 30th wedding 
anniversary, says he sees no danger 
of an economic depression in the 
United States. 
Reagan also said he is willing to discuss compromise budget proposals with critics ofhis own em­battled, big-deficit spending plan. 
The president and his wife Nann­settled in yesterday for a 4-day stay at their 688-acre ranch overlooking the Pacific Ocean. 
One of the first things they did was take a ride together on a red tractor lawnmower -complete with presidential seal on the hood ­that had been presented as a gift from friends on the Reagan's 30th wedding anniversary Thursday. 
As he prepart:d to fly to his moun­

taintop retreat after a 2-day stay in 
Los Angeles, Reagan stepped away 
from his helicopter to make a 
surprise announcement that he had 
chosen Army Gen. John \X'. Vessey 
Jr.. to become the next chairman of 
the.Joint Chief.~ ofStaff. 
His election marks the first time 

an oflker has been promoted from 
the obscure job of vice chief of his 
service to become the highest 
ranking uniformed ~>fficcr in the 
armed forces. 
Responding to questions about 

the economy, Reagan said, "! don't 
think there's any danger ofa dcpres· 
sinn." 
The president said he would be 

willing to meet with congressional 
Democrats who have alternative 
proposals to hb budget, but added: 
"so far all that has come to us is 
protest about what we've proposed 
and we're waiting to see a proposal 
from them that we can then sit down 
and discuss with them." 
Speakes indicated that the best 

chance for a compromise package is 
in a series of meetings of Repulican 
Senate leaders and committee chair­
men who are searching for ways to 
cut Reagan's projected budget 
deficits. 
On another subject, Reagan told 

reporters that "there doesn't seem 
to be much room form negotiations" 
to end the fighting in El Salvador. 
The administration contends that 
upcoming elections rather than 
negotiations are the proper course 
for El Salvador. 
In another development, the 

White House announced that 
French President Francois Mitter­
.;;--------------.
~GGJillnP t:rr~ -:2"ll:lllr"\"'"i 
11
i.l 
Off-Cam~us Storage
over Spring Break in Stepan Tues. Mar. 9 2-4 pm Wed. Mar.10 2-4pm 
For more info. call 277-8839 Sponsored by O.C. Commission 

rand will confer with Reagan during a "working visit" to Wqashington on 
March 12. 
The Reagans arc expected to remain in the privacy of their ranch until Sunday when they go to a nearby ranch for the taping of a per­formance by country music singer Merle Haggard tor a White House concert series. 
They return to Washington Mon­day. 
As they celebrated their anniver­sary, reporters asked how it feels to be married 30 years. 
"Feels like 30 minutes," said Mrs. Reagan. Reagan said, "It's awfully easy for me to love her." 
Discovery indicates evolution shortcut 
HOUSTON (AP) -A researcher who found that genes apparently can sometimes move from one species ofanimal to another says the discovery suggests an :·astonishing" shortcut in evolution. 
Max Birnstid of the University of Zurich in Switzerland said Thursday this hitherto unexpected transfer of genetic information could cause relatively rapid evolutionary changes. 
Birnstid reported that he has found ncarlv identical bits ofgenetic material in. two distantly related species of sea urchin. 
The two animals rc descended from a common ancestor that lived 65 million years ago, but they have followed separate evolutionary paths, Birnsticl said. 
Even though both are sea urchins. , their genes should be completely different after so many millions of years of separate development. he said. 
So the only plausible explanation 

for the identical genetic material is 
that the material was transferred 
from one animal to another in 
"recent evolutionary times" -with· 
in 500,000 years. 
Birnstiel said the discovery was so 
unexpected that he spent three years checking and re-checking his experiments before announcing his work to other scientists. 

Finally convnced that he made no mistake, Birnstiel announced the work Wcdnesday at a symposium on cancer research at the M.D. Ander­son Hospital and Tumor Institute. He has published the finding in the EMBO journal, a scientific journal published in London. 
lk said his work should not be considered conclusive until similar gent: transfers are found hv other rt·searchers in other animals. 
Other biologists at the M.D. An­derson symposium :-.aid they found Birnstid's \vork provocative. hut so surpri~ing that they are not yet sure of its importance. 
Animals are thought to evolve and change over a period of millions of years, but if an animal is really able to acquire an active gene from anohcr species. the animal's character could change rapidly. 
The question now is to determine how the gene was transferred, and Birnsticl has a guess. 
A colleague has suggested that viruses that afflict sea urchins may have piked up genetic material from, one species and give it to the other. 
-L. ~~

EASY RIDER TO AID ROM CIIIUGO'S O'JIAII ~ IVERY 2BOUBS IVERY DAY 
PITH AND MOMENT' (Hankes)'
Shows how. bV worktng together we can create a universally acceptable secorid language. free of the archaic problems of spellrng, pronunciation. syntax. ir­

'United Limo regularttres and snobbishness. Completelyinfegrated and logical. rt enfolds the han­.g~~ffe~~~e f;~,~~'?~~~~~ ~~~~R~~~~e ~~gexpression. Its structural patte'rns make ~;~~i~ga~;ge~~~e~~~rte~~~ y~~~:~~g~Ji g?~~Gr ~~on" ~.ns_,~v0e~e~n~0meh'ePpe1t a copy 100pgs. $8.50 US ppd "If you please" CAMILLA PUBLISHING CO. INC. BOX 510 MPLS., MN 55440 BY MAIL ONLY-SENC :~ECI('OR M.O. 
cu 
Notre Dame Credit Union 
''Checking'' share-draft accounts 
regular hours monday-friday 
closed weekends 
most convenient location no service charge 
DARE iTO VENTURE ! 


-


Friday, March 5, 1982 -page 7 Editorials 
What are Sandinistas arming for? 
Two weeks ago I summarized data sophistication of the arsenal of on the international market, shipping Canal would become a mallcrofdcep 
gathered from five reputable weapons. them into El salvador through concern. The huge oil reserves near Andrew Cochran 
ncwsgathcring pubications (Time, :\1arxist revolutionary aqnics need Nicaragua, and training Salvadorean the \1cxican coast might not be 
Newsweek, The Wall Street Journal. \1arxist revolutionaries to to train guerrallas to disrupt the economy aviailablc to Amcri~:an purchasers as 
Human Events, ami National and advise them, and there is certain­through destruction of strategic readily as they now arc. It is the in­
Review) which inukat;; that th;; San-ly no shortage of revolutionaries in bridges, roads, and power plants. herent aggressivcncss of \1arxist Nicaraguan human rights violations 
dinista government in Nicaragua has the capital city of \1anagua. \1on-The implications of the military doctrine and the record of past \1arx­the massacre and relocation into con· 
cvolvcd into a \1arxist totalitarianist day's Chicago Tribune printed· ex-buildups in Nicaragua and the San­ist insurgencies that lead me to centration camp of the \1iskito In­
state. It is regularly violating human ccrpts from interview with C lA uinistas' support for· \1arxist guerril­believe that the intent of the Soviets dians, a tribe of over 100,000 living 
rights and is rnishankling the Director William Casey which will las in other Central American and Cubans is precisely to endanger ncar the Honduran border. The 
economy, the incvitabk result of the appear in US News and World countries is staggering. If the region these interests. Unfortunately, much 
!\1arch I issue of Time indi~.:tcs that application of \1arxist-Lcninist Report. He said that \1anagua has were to evolve into a Marxist stron­of the west, including the American 
since mid-December, between 25 
doctrinc. become a center for international ghold, three American vital interests media, fails to recognize that what is and 40 \1iskito villages have been 
Appar~:ntly the Sandinistas are not \1arxists. The East Germans and would be dirc~:tly threatened. The happening in Nicaragua is only pan 
destroyed, 200 Miskitos have been 
content to apply \1arxist doctrine to Soviets each have between fifty and shipping lanes from the southern of the Soviet Union's plan, as they 
murdered, and 8500 to 10,000 have only Nicaragua. Th;;y arc ac4uiring one hundred representatives there. U.S. to Africa over which much of have declared for dc~:ades, to 
been for~:ibly relocated to concentra­the capability to spread their rcvolu-while the .. Bulgarians, North our supply of strategic metal is strangle Western economics into 
tion camps. Scores have been jailed
lion elsewhere in Central America. Koreans, Vietnamese. and the PLO transportc,d would be subject to inter­submission. 
and convicted for resisting the iron 
When the Sandinistas took over the arc also supplying advisors. The diction. Free access to_thc Pana_ma Postscript-Add the the list of hand of Sandinista totalitarianism. 
government from the Somozan die-Cubans head the list with 2000 tatorship, there were around 7,000 military advisors and 4000 advisors troops in the army. Its size has in-of other kinds. "They all have their creased drastically to between little fuctions. The East Germans 25,000 and 30,000. A Time article in work on the security system. Cubans its January IH issue indicated the work on the general strategy and the government's intention to increase it soviets work, for the most part, on to50,000. The regular army is lacked th;; large wcapons that have come by a reserve force of h~:tween 28,000 in." and 50,000. The present size of The Reagan Administration has Nicaragua's armed forces dwarfs the emphasized the role played by the size of forces in Honduras, · , Cubans in the Nicaraguan revolution Guatemala, and El Salvador. 'into a \1arxist state and has tied the 
An army needs arms to be ef-Cuban-Nicaraguan conncctiim to fective, and Nicaragua's \1arxist guerrillas in El salvador. "This buddies in Cuba and the Soviet bloc whole El Salvador insurgency is run last year. Nicaragua can thank those out of \1anagua by professional ex­allies for one hundred howitzers. pcrienceu in directing guerrilla dozens of armored personnel carrirs, wars,'' says Casey. Secretary of one thousand military transport State Haig added his opinion to trucks, thirty hattie tanks, shoulder-Casey's this week. stating that there fired anti-aircrah missiles. anti-is irrefutable evidence that the Sal­aircrah guns, and helicopters. At vadorcan rebels arc controlled from least three Nicaraguan airports have \1anagua. Newsweek reporter '\tlark been extended to a length that would Whitaker wrote in the \1an.:h 1 issue cn<.~blc Soviet .'VIIG fighters to take that the Salvadorean rebels operate a off and land. About HO 1\Ji~.:araguans propaganda center, a communica­havc rcn·ived pilot training in But-lions center, and a military high com­garia. T l\1E reporter George Russell manu from various locations in ..:haractcrized the Nicaraguan army 'vlanagua. He also wrote that the a~ "the predomimmt military power Nicar<.~guans <.~nd Cubans are of the region" because of the size and purchasing massive amounts of arms 
Our view is not the only view 
==nteDbset:Ver 
Founded November 3,1966 
The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of t~e University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessanly reflect the policies of the administration of either. ins~itution. The news i~ ~eport· ed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Edttonals represent the optntO'_l of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are th.e vtews of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the co~mumty, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, tJuougb .letters, IS encour~ed. 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editorial Hoard 

t:dit(Jr-in-Cbief............................. .John McGrath Executive News Editor................... .... Kt:lli Flint .~ports Editor.............................. Skip Desjardin Neu•s Editor ............................. David Rickabaugh Photo Eclitor ....................................... John Macor .~J1C E"tecutit't' Editor........... .'11arr Agnes Carq Editorials Editor.. ..................,Anthony Walton SMC News Editor......................Cathy Domanico Features Editor .........................Gregory Swiercz' 
Department Managers
., 

·Business Manager.......................... Rich Coppola Production Manager ................... Michael Monk Controller ............................................ .]oe Mulflur Circulation Manager .............Tom Maclennan Advertising Manager .......................Chris Owen Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley 
volvement. And, needless 10 say. it is usually wrong to seck nny involve-. ment hut what might he thrust on us by consanguinity or whatever. 
It would be foolish to give a single explanation to any of these breakups. So much is involved. in varying degrees--temperament, careers. money, ~:hildren, in M>me ~·ascs neuroses. and so on. We would all ..:onsider a person mad who said. for instan..:e. "the wik is invariably right, the husband wrong: and it is in­variably a matter of adultery.'' 
fhat may be true of m;my cases-­

I. but trivally true wherl' there is more dillen:n..:e than ~imilarity in the par­
..____ 
~ 

tit·ular example of adultery. And, besides. this explanation leavcs ('ut all oth;;r factors. 
Common sense often .::nlightcns our individual relations in a way that has no cff.::ct on our politkal judg­ments. Thl' nations of the Third 
Wt: 
oi~'~'>Y(!R~ 
""'?~.... 

World arc undergoing a turmoil. res.::mhling the struggl.::s within a marriage, that is c~·onomic, anti­..:olonial. tribal. religious, ideologi­cal. technological. Yet American policymakurs have isolated one ··.::xplanation'' for ca~·h of these many kinds of unrest--the iucolol!i­
right have we to decide where every other country in the W(\rld is to ., go."? 
In El Salvador. many l·losc obser­vers, induding our own former am­bassador. resent the way the Reagan administration is forcing the conflict into our simpistic ~·ate gory. The church workers on the scene sym­pathize with opposition to the curr.::nt regime: our simplifiers say the only reason for that must be ideological-­all those priest~ and nuns arc 'vlar­xists. No unrest is allowed to .::xpress its.::lf ;;xcept at the presumed promtptings of Karl 'vlarx. 
The Pope has called for our therefore we must be. Even if arms arc being shipped by Cuba and/or Nicaragua. arms arc not self-firing. Tht:rc must be dc.::p grievances that drive people to wke up arms against th.::ir own government's army. The point is not so much where the arms come from hut that indigenous forces want tht: arms. The rebels do not have the governm.::nt's resources-­they are putting their bodies on the line. The tksh-and-blood reasons for this arc individual and profound. and 
we have no right to act on our own caricature of tho.~.e motivations. No matter \\/hat other countries do, W( 'hould follow the Pone's advice. 
\1ost of us. unfortun;Hcly, know a dozen or more--and many of us know many more--marriages that have broken up. These involve relatives, friends, business colleague~ or other ac4uaintanccs. The more we know the circumstances, the more par­ticular each set of grievances or dis­satisfactions appears. What we make of each incident depends on• the de­gree of our knowledge and/or in­
U.S. foR£\GN RluCY-19Sl 
cal. Wht:rc th.:: actual inhabitants sec dozens of issues. we sec only on.::: communi~m. W;; ar.:: blind to th.:: rest of the struggle. even where com­munism might be an issue. 
Henry Kissinger put the maHer succinctly when he said that no people should be allowed to go ~·om­munist. Often. of course, the resi­dents do not even s.::c the issu.:: in those term~: and if they did, what 
Garry Wills 
Outrider 

withdrawal from the s~.:cne; but we answer. of course, that the Russians arc, through surrogates. involved, 


:owc~sE
\,..··

'i· ... ~II --------------------------------------------~----~·~--------------­




E
lvis may be the King. Bruce may be the Boss. But Morrison Schwartzer is the Head Chefof Rock'n Roll. 
ttvil Timly 
The crowd in the ACC on March 3rd was jittery and anxious. Most had never seen the Chefserve up :vlicrowave Rock before. A select few (like myself) however, knew what would be on the menu that evening. We have been following Morrison ever since his early days as lead guitarist for the early 70's band 
I 11PEACHMENT. 
The lights were dimmed. The crowd cheered. The stage was as dark a black Caddy limo. Then, crisp as a fresh Dorito, :vlorrison's voice broke through the roar,"lt happened on the Nile...Tony came in 
style...Saw Cleo with her smile." It was the romantic ballad "Come Lay With :vic You Feisty Wench." The Toxic Wastes scared in the back­round to the.loud bopping salute to dedicated lovers throughout his­tory. The crowd went wild. 
Things did not slow down. :\~lor­rison unleashed his guitar and took offwith the free-falling twangs of "Rock and Roll Can't Save Me, But Boy Am I :vlaking Bucks." :vlorrison Schwartzer and the Toxic Wastes had seized the soul ofevery Domer, SMC'er and Hoosier. in the Arena. Note after note, chord after chord, song after song, the ACC patrons fc:astcd on pure Rock'n Rage, Schwartzer style. 
Ofparticular note, was the Schwartzer's "Imperial Blues," a rhythmic lamentation on the fall of the Roman Empire. The superb bass playing of PCB was featured as well as a hide-ripping drum solo by the controversial drummer, Agent Orange. 

Timely as ever, .\1orrison got political in his musical tribute to the present situation in Poland. "Solidarity took a giant step too far...The Army took control by violent means...The U.S. complained 'cause we don't like :\1artial Law...Though we've seen it for years in the Phillipines." 
Then back to mindless Rock'n Roll with the riot inciting"Radiation Rock," a tribute to Plutonium 238. 
The crowd, inspired with the energy of Microwave Rock, got off their scats.and started dancing. :\~lor­rison then flung himself into the audi~nce, landing ten rows deep and impaling a Business major on his jet guitar. Extricating himselfquickly, 
Morrison got up and continued stroking his guitar without missing a measure. 
The shows electric nature had 

townies flicking their bics to make a 
giant butane image of Morrison in 
local used an army surplus flame 
thrower, which sparked the clever 
adlib from Morrison, "Hey, cut that 
out. That's dangerous, you stupid 
jerk." The crowd was literally 
smoking. 
Morrison's own fully orchestrated version ofTchaikovsky's 18I 2 Overture set every bleacher section into simple harmonic vibrations. Two sections even collapsed, killing 
14 and injurying over 60 students. 

The crowd loved it. 
No opening act...three hours of 

solid Microwave Rock'n Rage com­
plete with enough guitar hooks to 
pull in a school ofsalmon...four 
encores and the evening was over 
(only because the security guards 
wanted to go home and soak their 
teeth). 
.\1orrison Schwartzer, the Head 
Chefof Rock and Roll, and his 
waiters of wailing Rock, the Toxic 
Wastes, satiated a gluttonous crowd. 
Microwave Rock lives! 

Today's church: Ashes to ashes 
I 
overheard a vehement profes­sion ofpersonal integrity on Ash Wednesday. ''I'm not going to have my forehead smudged tonight. I don't need that." 
Wi-MifBitfiE!fW!iiliitHJ@: 
Paul Kosidowski 
Second Thoughts 
"But it's a symbol," replied a reactionary friend. 
"I don't need symbols. God and I have a good thing going; neither He nor I need all that other stuff." 
I also heard ofa woman who expressed her displeasure with a recent Liturgy at Sacred Heart. She did so rather loudly -to the whole congregation, in fact -right after communion. She was artgry at the priest's modem interpretation of the Mass. 
I wish now that I knew who these people were. I would invite them both to dinner (a Friday at Pon­derosa's would probably be interest­ing) for some theological dialogue. 
It would be nice to hear some dialogue between people who didn't have all those PhD's and CSC's after their names. Academics seem to argue because they like to argue, much in the way we argue about who the greatest football player of all time was. There's no real answer, but it's fun to state your case, throw a few verbal punches and then relax with your adversaries over some 
beer and hard salami. 

But when the average Joe talks about religion, he wants results. He wants that Communist/Fascist priest transferred to India/Alabama where he belongs. There would be no "this is only my opinion, but..." or "I respect that idea, but I must dis­agree..." There would be right's and wrong's and wailing and gnashing of teeth and tossing ofsalad. 
People never change their minds about two things: the Chicago Cubs and religion. 
The Church has been good about trying to accommodate their some­what stubborn and eclectic con­stituency, but it seems they just can't please all of the Christians on all of the Sundays. God knows they've tried -all ofthose councils and re­formers -but even today people can't agree whether they should sit or stand or sing or chant or shout Hallelulia! 
My first try at playing Martin Lut­her was when I was sixteen and began driving alone to "my weekly religious experience." My parents were naive enough to think that I was at St.Jude the Apostle, but being disillusioned at our stoic pastor, I spent my weekly ritual in a park watching the boats in Milwaukee Harbor. I meditated on the fat man who clobbered his wife in tennis every week. 
Being an expert on religious at­titudes, I thought I'd send the Pope a plan for a Liturgy that would satisfy everybody. The Church needs more 
variety. Churches need to take on a new look. 
The St. Sebastian's Fourplex would have that new look, offer the variety that every Christian needs. These are just some ofthe new features: -Four masses each hour to fit every kind ofpolitical and religious ideal­
ogy. -"Incense" and "No-incense" sec­tions in all group worship centers. -An extensive wine cellar and four kinds of bread, baked fresh daily. -Special showings ofCanadian travelogues for those who see God in nature. -A special audio system which 
brings you masses in all your favorite languages -latin, spanish, the King's English, Mississippi evangelist and, for all those who wish to em­pathize with our oppressed brothers in Europe, Polish. 
-Specially scheduled services for those with particular musical tastes 
-be-bop, heavy metal, punk, 
dixieland. This week we feature the 
rabbinical rhythms ofLeviticus and 
the Lamplighters. 
-A convenient gift shop lets you take home that special momento to help you remember your visit. My 
parents went to church andall/got was this lousy T-shirt. 
Ideas like this are still in the plan­ning stages, but with the Pope's en­dorsement we should be able to railroad it through the College of Cardinals. In these changing times the Church has to bend a little to keep everybody happy. 

V
iolence becomes corporal 
punishment when there is just 

cause for the punishment and good 
will come from the violence. Likewise, rampant violence without 
a point to it becomes nothing short ofchild-beating. Alan Parker (whose previous credits include .11idnight Express andFame) is, in my opinion, 

Dennis Chalifour 
Movies 

me child-beater ofrhe cinema. Shoot the Moon, his newest motion picture, again glorifies his backlogof jerky characters and treats his audience like dirt. 
The plotline concerns successful middle-aged writer George Dunlap (Albert Finney) whose marriage has lost the laughter it once had. In turn, George leaves his wife Faith (Dianne Keaton) and four daughters for lady friend, Karen Allen. The bulk ofthe movie concerns itself with the con­flicts and domestic violence which arise from the dissolution ofan American family. But then again, so what? 'The movie never resolves it­selfand the characters remain eter­nal jerks who will never learn their lesson. In his attempt at being as "real-life"as possible, Alan Parker has neglected to use his cinematic license and inject this film with any sort ofa theme. 
Parke .r goes to much pain to develop the building ofa tennis court as a metaphor for Faith's inde­pendent new life. In the end, George destroys the court/new life with a station wagon and is in turn beaten and repeatedly kicked in the groin Faith's new tennis court builder beau, Frank (Peter Weller). This, the film's big finale, is a pointless episode ofgruesome violence that 

says more about Hollywood's propensity toward violence as a spectable than that violence which is inherent in separation. 
Bo Goldman's screenplay doesn't help very much. His characteriza­tions are empty and his dialogue is so peppered with foul language that it deprives a conversation ofany meaning whatsoever. Somewhere along the line the audience gets lost in the gutter. I know that I for one really enjoy listening to little girls talk like sailors. Vulgar language is just another cheap shot that Parker ses no reason not to usc time after time. 
A film like Martin Scorcese's Raging Bull succeeds where Alan Parker fails in providing a purpose to the domestic violence. In that film, Scorccse forces his characters to the ground so that by the end ofthe film reform becomes their only choice. We must feel the violence because Jake LaMotta is a part of us that we must control. Alan Parker perverses this same idea into a world where making a scene in a restaurant allows one to have sex that evening. It presentsa rage that is rebuk .ed with the immortal line: "Oh, that temper ofyours." 
The title ofthis film refers to the card game Hearts, in which one at­tempts to get rid ofall the lousy "point" cards in order w win. However, ifone acquires a lot of lousy cards, one may "shoot the moon" and dish out points galore to win the game. It is an interesting analogy but seems too muddled to fit into this movie. Alan Parker is a man who will not hesitate to give his audience all the lousy cards. He is a relentless "child-beater who abuses the movie-goers who are his bread and butter. Shoot the .'lfoon remains yet another one ofAlan Parker's knee to the groin movies. 
A friend -who kept hitn honest 
J 
oc was a priest who had an ag· · 
nostk friend who kept him honest. joe had a faith that 
people leaned on. It was an imperkct faith, but it kept 
him rt·~ponsible. Ill' honored cummitmcnts he could 
not walk away from, bdids he could not take lightly, a 
conscience that kept him htithful to truths outside him· 
~l'lf. "I would hatl· being a pious' fraud," joe said. "My 
friend tries to keep me honest. lk tells me that life is not 
easy, and that I should never oversimplify the answers 
to question~ people ask when thl"Y arc trying to t1nd 
pl·ace." 
A middlt:-agcd friend called joe from New York to 
say that he was going to a psychiatrist for help in dealing 
with the guilt he had pickl·d up as a young Catholic The 
fril'nd said: "Young people don't have the problems we 
had in growing up, because you no longer teach them 
guilt." lie asked .Joe to pray for him. lie would go to 
.Mas~ at noonday, lu: said, as he went to Mass everyday. 
Even as a good Catholic, he fdt bitterness at the un­
fll"l"l"Ssary burdens he felt priests and nuns had laid on 
his conscil'ncc a long timl· ago, ruining his chances for 
happiness for OVl"r twenty years. 
Joe hadn't been ordained when his caller was a young Catholk learning guilt from the priests. joe's own worse sin, he kit, was saying more about God than he really knew. I k knew quite a lot. lie had seen a lot of people moving in and out of the Church. An old friend whom Joe had loved since they had played together as children askedjoe for absolution. In the yearjoe was or· dainl·d, the old friend had told joe he was leaving the Church because he needl·d room to breathe. It took 
jol•'s own breath away when his friend asked, with deep emotion showing on his face, to he allowed the comfort ofthe Eucharist Awoman who had grown old as a tea<:· her tookjoe aside at a party to say: "I have started going to Mass again, after fifteen years." A medical student who proksscd atheism surprisedJoe by appearing for the sacraments. 
"What happened to bring you back'" Joe asked. 
"I rl·alizcd I was a t(>ol," the student said simply. 
A llniwrsity professor told Joe of her brother who 
asked l(>r hdp on his deathbed with the act ofcontri· 
tion. "I've blTn praying for li>rty years for him to make 
that sign offaith," she said. 
Jm· ha~ met an assortment ofChristians on their way to a homecoming: kids wh to left to do their own things; dancers who appeared in the Follies; salesman who l(mnd out how it played in Peoria. "Grace is everywhere," he comments, but he refuses to say more about <iod than he rcall y knows. 
During the winter, Catholics were anxiously watch· ingllridesbead Re1•isited on television. They cheered wlll'n Lord .March main, in the last moments of life. ac· lTptnl the sacraments ofreconciliation. By a sign ofthc eros~. he accepted heaven and avoided the painsofhdl. as his htmily prayed like cheerleaders li>r their tathcr's victory. 
'"That's the way Ciod'~ mercy works,'" Catholics said. "lie lets us get away. but only ti>r a little while, until He is ready to pull the strings that hrings the sinner home." 
Rev. Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
"lie works that way," Joe said, "ifyou'n.: writing a 
book. In n·ality, too much is hidden to say how God 
works. The soul itself is hidden, and we can't even be 
sure ofourselves ifwe arc in or out ofthe state ofgrace." 
Joe's agnostic friend told him: '"The problem with 
Catholics is that they cheat. Priests stand too close to 
human consciences, saying what God's will is. Souls get 
cheated by a priest's glibness. Souls need to work things 
out for themselves. The conscience gets bent out of 
shape, denying itselffreedom and listening to some 
Catholic shouting the directions to heaven. Twenty 
years later, it lies on a psychiatrist's couch, weary with 
guilt, trying to find out what it means to be authentically 
human." 

Joe tried to remember ifhe was guilty ofmistakes that 
twisted souls and left them to be numbered among the 
walking wounded. 

.. What is it you think you arc doing," his friend asked, to keep him honest, "when you let people tell you their sins?" 
'"I tell them what I think they need to hear," Joe said, "to ted at peace with thcmsdves." 
"It seems presumptuous to me," his friend said. 
Joe thought of the people he had tried to hdp: the 
husband who was depressed at the sight ofhis wife and children; the wife who had grown weary ofchild­bearing; the girls who had been scarred by unwise d10ices; the kids who made a mess ofthings with drinks ordrugs; the old people who sought a way out oflondi· ness; the couples who played games imitating marriage; the students who were trying to fight establishments; the boy who said he was afraid he was queer; the sexual identity cases that had been put to the test; the lost; the doubters; the malicious; the careless; the promiscuous; the embittered; the weary. 
They would find their own way to heaven, Joe thought. lie felt sorry for the shabbiness they needed to confess. He wanted them to fed better about them· selves. He wanted to hdp their hurt, because he knew what it felt like to hurt. The wounded dealing with the wounded: there was grace in this. The Church blessed it as a ministry that represented the compassion ofChrist. 
An agnostic had said that the priest's work was presumptuous. ACatholic said that priests had made him ilL .\1illions ofCatholics have decided they can deal with their own shabbiness, and they no longer need the help ofpriests.Joe felt like a dinosaur left ovt·r from the bygone age. 
"Ncverthdcss," he said, trying to he honest with him· self as he put on the purple stole of the confessor, "A truth outside myselfsays the mercy ofGod is here. Faith is trusting promises ti>r which the evidence is lacking." 
10n Golden Pond' holds water 
A
nyont· who has convinced thcm~dvcs that "On Golden Pond" is some sort ofgeriatric tl·ar·jl·rker that falls in at about the ~aml· kvd ofcntl·rtainment as 
t:litiifJWJ]~t~~i!ill~JHt1!@l(f~iii~~fi!J!i~i~!!!i~!!~!~it1i!il~J.~~ilii~!i!
Dennis Chalifour 
Movies 

listening to your gn·at·unclc wheeze, should dct1nitely think again. The ntm is very eloquent, wdl executed, and an cxtrcmdy funny juxtaposition ofthe old and new worlds. Director :\1ark Rydell has 
developed the theme much further than the generation gap. The movie seems to be a clash between old Hol­lywood and new Hollywood, in which the old chiefs get their justly deserved last kicks at the new kids in town. 
Ernest Thompson (who adapted the screenplay from his own stage play) provides a top-notch allegori· cal plotlinc. Norman Thayer( Henry Fonda) is thl· aged and eccentric retired college professor. Ethel (Katherine Hepburn) is the loving wife and family mentor. Their daughter Chdsca (Jane Fonda) visits Norman and Ethd at their summer house in honor of her fathn's HOth 
birthdav. She brings with hn a new dultist l)oyfriend, his fourteen year old son, and plenty ofhard feelings toward dad. Throughout, the characters engage thc:msdves in livdy repartees about aging. sex, and t1shing, moving very smoothly to a resolution that tells us more about the joy of living than the trauma of dying. 
The word joy should probably be underlined about a dozen times. joy is what invigoratesOn Golden Pond with a wealth of humor the movies so often lack these days. The backbone of this humor is surely Henry Fonda's Norman Thayer. His sardonic wit is constantly putting people in their place. Another reason for the rediscovered joy of this t11m is .\1ark Rydell's "old Hoi· lywood" directorial work. He's not afraid to let these great actors take the center stage and just act their hearts out. The technique is jarring at first since modern audiences arc so used to realism in acting to ap­preciate acting for its own sake. There is a liawksian air to the t1lm that gives it the drive ofa screwball comedy. Jane Fonda, on the other 
hand, is purposcfuly trapped within the seventies mold of"tlnding mysdt'' drama. Once the audience has gotten used to and downright comfortable with the screwball cpmcdic style, the present age seems much too pretentious to deal with. Old Hollywood has regained the upper hand. 
Rydell. however. also gets caught at times (though certainly not purposefully) in the present age presents nature sequence after nature seqence like doggie de­wormers being stuffed down our throats. The director should have had sense enough to realize that nature need not upstage the t1nc per ti>rmances of his cast with seasonal foliage that need only be a backdrop. As in the tine Hcmingwayian t1shing sequences, the characters' roles within nature and not nature itself arc what is important. 
Finally, I'd like to re-emphasize my delight with Henry Fonda's per· formancc. If(and when) Henry Fonda wins the Oscar, it wll be well deserved. His work in On Golden Pond is representative of the kind ol acting as art that seems to be moving closer to extinction every minute. On Golden Pond may very well be your last chance to be thoroughly entertained by old Hollywood. Sec it. 

Procrastination key to writing success 
W 
hat docs your husband do?" I asked a young woman I met at a wedding last weekend. "lie's a writt·r," she told me. "What docs he write?" I asked, and I noticed that as I did the tone of my voice turned ever so slightly away from conversational to 
reportorial. '"All sorts ofthings," she said, "novds, short stories ...you know." One of the surprising things about being a writer is that a person 
need not actually write anything to be one. 
On further gentle prodding. it turned out that in addition to being a writer, the young woman's husband had also inhl"fitcd a lot of money. That's the kind of writer I've always wanted to he. 
If there is one thing I know a lot about, it's how to keep from writing. For those ofyour who want to call yourselves writers, here arc: some tips on how to be a 

.· :;. ft~ .

writer without the drudgery of actually putting words on 
Andy Rooney
paper. 
I. Only write when your mind is free and clear ofany 
other rcsponsibility. Don't try ;iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii to write if there's something else you could be doing. Finish all your chorl"S t1rst. Swl·t·p out the garage, clean out your bottom drawer and Ilk those papers and old checks. 
2. Work in comfortable surroundings. Thnc should IK a couch in youroftkc. Ifyou're sleepy or want more time to think through your idea relax on the couch t(>r awhile. Have yourself a little nap if you think it will help. 
). I( after you awake from your little nap, you lind that it's almost lunch or dinnertime, close up shop. There's no senst· trying to write on an empty stomach. And don't try to write on a full stomach either. 
'1. Don't try to write with equipment that is anything kss than per· feet. Nothing physically wrong with your typewriter, paper supply, pencils, pens or paper clips should come between you and the clear flow ofan idea. If, just for example, the holes in the o's, c's or a's are clogged with dried ink from your ribbon and arc producing a shaded area there on paper instead ofa clean blank spot bend out the t·nd of a paper clip and pick out the clot ofink imbedded in the keys. 
;. Ifthere's a tdcphonc call you ought to make, make it bdorc you write anything. If you think ofan old friend you might call, call him. :\take all your calls bdi>rc you write. 
6. 
There is nothing more distracting li1r a writer than ti1r him to have the feeling that he's missing out on something good. Ifyou hear the television set on in some other part ofthe houst·, go sec what it is. 

7. 
Awriter ought to have a work area that is free ofother materials. If there arc letters you haven't read on your desk or copies ofold Sunday newspaper sections, Harper's magazine, Playboy or last week's issue ofTV Guide, read them and throw them away bdorc you start to write. 


H. Smoking can be a big hdp in not writing. Cigarettes arc good but the pipe is far and away the favorite smoke for the writer who isn't going to actually write anythng. Apipe can keep a writer busy all morning just cleaning, packing, lighting, and relighting it. 
9. Don't write unless the temperature is right. You can fuss with 
the thermostat, and ifthat doesn't work, change your clothes more or less warmth. 
I 0. All of us need plenty of time to worry. There simply arc not in enough hours in the day for each ofus to do all the worrying there is to be done. If you have a lot of wprrying to do, put off writing until you've done some ofit. 
By following these simple rules, and inheriting a million dollars, you too can be a rich writer. 


~. 
l 
r 
i 
! 
~~()14t~~l:~~§~~~~e~<~~~~§ro~er~,~§d~Th~e~As~-so~ci:at:ed~Pr;es;s===============================F=rl=·d=a=y,lM~ar=c=h=S=,=l=9=8=
2 ===p=a=ge==l~O
.:rtSASKETBALL:ti&~{ 

Michigan basketballtickets are still available at the second floor ticket office at the ACC. The game will be held in the Silverdome in Pontiac, Mich., on Sunday, March 7. Tickets are priced at $4 and 56. -The Obseroer 
CCHA playofftickets are still on sale today at the Gate l 0 box office of the ACC. There are plenty of tickets remaining. The games, with Notre Dame playing host to Michigan, will be played tonight and· tommorrow night. Face-off both nights will be at 7:30 
p.m. Student season ticket holders have first priority in purchasing playofftickets. Students who present the face oftheir season coupon book with their lD card will be able to purchase tickets in Section 8. All.other Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students may purchase playoff tickets at the same time and place. There is a limit of one student ticket per game, for personal use,.and at the student price of S3. Additional tickets may be purchased for $4. ID must be 
presented at the time of purchase, and one student may present no more than four I D's. -The Obseroer 
The Varsity Crowdwill sponsor a 1950's dance con­test at halftime of tommorrow's women's basketball game between Notre Dame and Michigan State. First prize will be a dinner for two at Steak & Ale. Second prize will be two•Farrell's gift certificates. Registration for participants will begin at the ACC at l:1 5 p.m. and continue through the end of the first half The game, which is the final regular-season contest for the Fighting Irish, will begin at 1:30 
p.m. -The Obseroer 

Classifieds 
NOTICES 
DO YOU NEED A GOOO HAIRCUT? GUYS $4, GIRLS $6 CALL MICHOLE AT 
7951 
Expenenced typiSt w1ll do. typ1ng. Pleas!> call287-5162. 
Need ndes for 2 to Pittsburgh for spnng break. Call1171, 
GOING TO THE WASHINGTON.D.C. 
AREA FOR SPRING BREAK?? A 
SECOND D.C. BUS WILL BE 
AVAILABLE IF AND ONLY IF 30 OR 
MORE PEOPLE SHOW UP. TONIGHT 
MARCH 5 AT 7 PM IN FiRST FLOOR 
LAFORTUNE. BE EARLY!! IF YOU CAN­
NOT MAKE IT, SEND A FRIEND. 
IF 30 OR MORE PEOPLE SHOW UP TONIGHT MARCH 5 AT 7 PM ON FIRST FLOOR LAFORTUNE. WE CAN GET A SECOND D.C. BUS FOR SPRING BREAK. BE THERE! 
2 RIDERS WANTED FOR TRIP TO CHICAGO (LEAVING TODAY BEFORE 2:45). CALL BOB AT 1768. 
EXPERIENCED· TYPIST will do typmg. Call: 287-5162 

LOST BLUE LOOSLEAF FOLDER IN GALVIN AUDITORIUM ON 2/23 AFTER SAHLINS LECTURE. CONTAINED NOTEBOOK AND PHOTQ NEG­GATIVES. CAU. BOB AT 3260 MATERIAL IS IMPORTANT 
LOST: Gray overcolll at PE-Stanford Formal Saturday mght. II found. please call Dave at 3596. 
FOUND: THE KEY marked 152 in the library lounge after SLF last week. Con­tact Dave Barber x8109. 
PLEASE NOTICE: I lost a be1ge fur­collared coat at the South din1ng hall on 2/22/82. Coat of canvas-like mmatell81 and made by MAINE GUIDE. Any in­formation leading to my getting it back will be rewarded. Please call Kev1a at ·11 03. Thank you. 
LOST a Sliver Pearl Diamond Eanngl Great Sentimental Value. If found call 2843. 
A watch was tound in the ACC Arena at a recent basketball game. II ~·s yours, please call Oom at 3075 
REWARD-LOST GOLD NECKLACE WITH CROSS AT CAMPUS VIEW POOL SENTIMENTAL VALUE. Please call 283-6954 
LOST A GREEN NOTRE DAME JACK­ET AND GREEN NOTRE DAME MIT­TENS. LAST SEEN FRIDAY NIGHT IN THE ALUMNI HALL PARTY ROOM. IF YOU HAVE THE JACKET OR ANY IN­FORMATION CONCERNING IT. PLEASE CALL 1196. 
FOUND-Calculator-Call 6815 to •den­tify 

Bookstore Basketball is just around the corner. Registration will be held on Wednesday, March 10 (Austin Carr's birthday), from 6 to 8 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Each team must specify two captains, one ofwhom must be present at registra­tion. The entry fee is 113.00 per team. -The Obseroer 
All Rowing Club members going on the spring trip to AustOn are required to attend a meeting for money collection Mon­day at 10 p.m. at LaFortune Little Theatre. Any questions, call Jim Feider at 1859. -The Obseroer 
Non-varsity deadlines coming up include both men's and women's I2-inch softball. The rosters are due Wednesday and must include 12·16 players, all from the same hall. The deadline for grad softball is also Wednesday, with a 12-member roster mini­mum and all players from the same department. The baseball league rosters are due Wednesday with a roster of 14-18 players. There is a $15 entry fee for each roster. A women's soccer tourney is forming, with teams arranged by hall and rosters due, ofcourse, Wednesday. There will be a S20 fee for entry and proofofinsurance is required. 
-The Obseroer 

The Notre Dame switnming team is par­
ticipating in the Midwest Invitational this weekend at Indiana State University. Last year the Irish finished third, its best finish ever. Coach Dennis Stark's team should be competitive again this year. ­
The Obseroer 

LOST: A black standard poodle 1n the v1c1mty. of Sl Joe's Hospital. Reward! Please call 232-6736 or 232-5971 w1th any tnformatlon. 
..........................•... Found: set of keys on astrological keyc­haln. Call Pat Sp•dertrap·· John at 3260 to identify. 

FOR RENT 



FURNISHED HOMES GOOD AREA WALK TO NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YR 2773604 
Student hous1ng--clean. safe. $100/mo. 291-1405: 
Be your · own boss Comfortable 5 bedroom. completely furnished house for 5 or 6. Close to campus. Phone 288-3942. 
FOR SALE 


USED & OUT-PRINT BOOKS bought. sold, searched. ERASMUS BOOKS Tues-Sunday,12-6. 1027E Wayne(One block 'south of Eddy-Jefferson Intersec­
tiOn.) 

SURPLUS JEEPS, CARS. TRUCKS cur­Inventory value $2.143 sold $100. For 1nformat1on on purchas1ng s1mllar bargms call 602·998-0575 Ext. 3648 Call refun­dable. 
. . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . FOR SALE: GOOD SONY WALKMAN. GREAT BUY. CALL 239-7494. 
Tl Progr .ammable SBC$80 Bany8Z07 
USED BOOK SHOP HOURS WED . SAT SUN. 9-7 CASPERSON 1303 BUCHANAN AD , NILES 
Buy and sell your books at Pandora s. 937 South Bend Avenue. South Bend: IN 466t 7 ~elephone: 233-2342. Sales on Psychology and Theology this week and 
next--5&o off. ' 

TICKETS I 

Need extra· t1ckets for graduation. Call Mark at 3008. · 
WANTED 

Need nd& to Hauston Texas. for spnng break. If you are headed 1n that d1rect1on please·catl Time at 1782. 
Desperately need a nde for two people lo Northern Jersey. nght olf Route 80. W1ll share the usual. Call Mike at 1181. 
AIDE NEEDED to Dallas.TX or Shreveport..LA Please call289-ll955 
NeedAidelor2toOHareA~rpon Fn March 12 after 1 W1IIHelpW1thGas 
PLEASE! NEED 2 AIDES TO LOUIS­VILLE. CALL 1031. THANK YOUI 
ARE YOU PLANNING TO LIVE IN LUS­CIOUS, TROPICAL TANTALIZING SOUTH BEND THIS SUMMER? rM LOOKING . FOR ONE FEMALE ROOMMATE TO SHARE A CAMPUS VIEW APT. FROM JUNE TO AUG. CALL PATII AT 283-8472.. RENT IS ONLY $145AMONTH 
I NEED RIDES FOR 3 PEOPLE AS CLOSE TO MAINE AS POSSIBLE FOR BREAK MARK 3403 
HELP! Need nde to N. VIRGINIA/D.C. 
area for break. Call Jim 1783. 
Two tun-loving gals need ride to PHILLY­area for break. Please don't leave these girls stranded in South Bendl We can leave possibly as early as Wednesday ai­ternoon (the 1Oth) We will share driving, expenses and provide 'munchtes!" Please call Kwick1 at 3773 
A1de needed to DAYTON, OHIO for spnng break. I can leave any ttme PLEASE call Donna at 6771 
EMERGENCYIII Ride needed to either Ridgewood, N.J., or Nyack N.Y. on or after March 12. Will share expenses and driving time-call 284-5127. 
ATIENTION HAWKEYESII The South 
Bend branch of HAWKEYE WORLD 
TOURS announces 1ts annual excurs1on 
to the vacation paradiSe of DES MOINES 
for an excitement-filled ten days 1n March. 
Two lucky nders w111 board the crUiser 
Misaligned Nova·· captained by Dave 
Durbala on Fnday, March 12. Cru1se 
d1reC1or Rachel Blount has des1gned a 
tour which proceeds west on 1-80 past 
scernc Davenport. Iowa 8ity, and Des 
Momes and ends in Booneville ap­
proximately 7 hours after departure 
(Captain Dave assures a speedy trip by 
k~ep1ng Director Rachel '" passenger 
quarters to avoid the IllinOIS State Pollee). 
Reservations for this excitmg tour are now 
bemg taken -its sure to 1111 up fast. so 
call8433 or 7983 today to book your spot 
on thiS breathtakmg crUise. 
NEED RIDE TO ROCHESTER NY FOR BREAK CAN LEAVE 3-11 CALL PAUL 1037 
NEED R1de to Conn/Mass/RI area for break. Will Sharf' Expenses. Please Call· SMC4785. 
Cheese steaks ..Tastykakes. Hot pretzels. March 1n Ph1la. I need a nde Call 3468 
Need nders to New Jersey that can leave Tues. March 9 Call Kev1n at 1478 
NICE GIRL DESPERATELY NEEDS RIDE WEDNESDAY 3-10 TO EXtT 11 ALONG OH-TURNPIKE CALL NANCY AT 1282--THANX! 
Need nde or nders to and !rom Buffalo thiS weekend. March 5th. Call Laura 4673. SMC 
Need Alders Dallas. Austin. Spnng Break Call Dan 272-1684 
NEED RIDE TO & FROM ElETAOIT FOR BREAK. CALL RUSS AT 3373. 
NEED 2 RIDERS TO CONNECTICUT FOR BREAKI LEAVING FRIDAY, MARCH 12. CALL BRIAN AT 8394. 
ru be stranded at Purdue If I don t get a nde back to the beloved Dome on March 
21. If you can help, call Peg at 1274 LOOKING FOR AIDE TO SYRACUSE, NY AREA FOR SPRING BREAK!! IF YOU CAN HELP CALL STEVE AT 8317. WILL SHARE USUAL. 
RIDE NEEDED!! To East Lans1ng, Mic1gan (or nearby) thiS weekend. Can leave Fnday. Call Michele x2721. Will share $$. Thankstl! 
NEED TICKETS TO THE NO-MICHIGAN B-BALLGAME. CALL DOUG 1841 
NEED AIDE FOR BREAK TO SCRAN­
TON.PA:BINGHAMTON,NY:OR ANYWHERE NEAR EITHERSHAAE USUALS.CALL ED AT 8886 
WANTED: 30 OR MORE PEOPLE TO RIDE A SECOND D.C. BUS FOR SPRING BREAK. IF INTERESTED. SHOW UP TONIGHT AT 7 PM ON FIRST FLOOR LAFORTUNE TO GET A SEAT. BE EARLY. AND IF YOU CANNOT COME. SEND A FRIEND. 
RIDERS NEEDED TO AND FROM COLORAQO OVER SPRING BREAK. Call1570 or 3210 lor more 1nio. 
RIDE NEEDED: EAST ON 1-80 TO CENTRAL PA. KAREN 1317 
A1de needed to Philadelphia for Spring Break w1ll share usuaL Call Rob 1609. 
Need two ndes to Albany, New Yorkk Area for the spnng break. Will share the usual.. Call B1ll and George at 1696. 
RIDERS needed· to DAYTON for BB game! Call Pat-88 16 
RIDERS NEEDED BACK TO NO FROM PHOENIX VIA ALBE­QUERQUE.OK.CITY.ST.LOUIS LEAVING AZ. 3/20.CALL MARK 8833 OR HELEN4634 BY 2PM 3/10. 
Need two nders to TWIN CITIES for break Call Bear at 233-2912, leave message. 
NEED RIDE TO CENAAL JERSEY Can leave on Wednesday afternoon Will share the usual. Call Laura. 4308. 
PERSONALS 
JEFF JEFFERS FOR UGLY MOON ON CAMPUS 
/Jeff Moon· Jeffers for UMOC -ugly moon on campus 
NO BAND Members F1lth (and f1nal) CLUE: SuZI likes CHINESE food and chopsticks If you have a good guess. call Cla~re Yang at x6848 
LYONS HALL FOOD SALES DELIVERS THE FINEST liN FRESH, THICK CRUST PIZZA TO ANY PLACE ON SOUTH QUAD FOR THE NOMINAL DELIVERY CHARGE OF 25 CENTS! CALL 1853 SUN-THURS FROM 9:30 TO 11t p.s. Delivery pnce Includes serv1ces of one LUSCIOUS LYONS DELIVERY LADYI 
You can stllltoln the Soc1ety for Creattve Anachrorusm 1f you m1ssed the meehng last week. for mtormatton call De~rdre at 8013 
NBA 
Eastern Conference 
Atlantic Division 
w L Pet. GB Boston 42 15 737 Ph1iadelph1a 41 17 .707 1.5 New Jersey 31 29 .517 12.5 Washington 27 29 .482 14.5 New York 28 33 .459 16 
Central Division Milwaukee 42 16 .724 Indiana 28 32 .467 15 DetrOit 26 33 441 16.5 Atlanta 24 31 436 16.5 Chicago 23 35 397 19 Cleveland 12 45 .211 29.5 
Western Conference 
Midwest Division 
w L Pet. GB 
San Antomo 37 21 638 
Houston 33 26 .559 4.5 
Denver 29 29 500 8 KansasC1ty 20 40 333 18 Dallas t9 39 .328 18 Utah t9 40 .322 18.5 
Pacific Division Los Angeles 41 19 683 Seattle 38 20 655 2 
Golden State  33  25  .569  7  
Phoentx  32  25  .561  7.5  
Portland  30  27  526  9.5  
San D1ego  15  44  .254  25.5  

Yesterday's Results New York 129, Los Angeles 1190T DetrOit 122, Ch1cago 97 
Boston 110. San Anton1o 101 Houston 128. Utah 124 Golden State 104, Dallas 98 

The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However. classifieds to appear in the next 1ssue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day prior to insertion. All classtfieds must be prepatd, e1ther in person or through the maiL 

Join JOHN, PAUL, GEORGE, & RINGO for a BEATLES WEEK-END ON WSND AM-64! Starting at 3:00p.m. Fnday. AM­64 bnngs you 3 days ol the BEST OF THE 
SEA TLES.  1nciud1ng  little  known  
BEAT~E-BITs··  and FREE  ALBUM  
GIVEAWAYS!!!  Tune  1nto  NOTRE  

DAME'S BEST ROC!(--WSND-AM 64!!! 
Glue two cntters together between bread! 
See! Hear! Lam1nated Ammal Samwtch! at Nazz Contest Fnday Night .. 10:25 
Lam1nated Am1nal Samw1ch Fans Umfy! Sol1d1fy at the Nazz.Fnday, 10:25,take your medtcme! 
Summer programs: Ireland, Scotland, London, Paris. May 18-June 17. Paris, Germany, Switerland, Italy. June 15­July 14; Courses available In l!uslness and economics, history, Italian, philosophy, sociology, and theatre. For information call Prof. A. Black 4948 (smc) 
DAB and BAB, 

Have a great birthday weekend Don·t let any dreaded Darners rum your spectal weekend. Who knows, you may even have hke tun!" Happy 20th 
BAS 

Anniebug HAPPY BIRTHDAY rm wa1tmg to hear about your adventures when you return. SMC tust 1sn·t the same without you. Have fun and be happy Mary 
ONLY26MOREDAYSTIL THECIRCUS COMESII! 
An Tostal General Staff Meet1ng. Sunday March 7 LaFortune Little Theater 7pm Be There! 
Dear Chns. sorry, thiS personal 1sn·t for you. Love you JUSt the same though. T1mo 
Jo1n T1m Neely for another tnp 1nt0 yovr rock ·n roll past (the last one before break) on the TOP 20 TIME TUNNEL Sunday mght at 8 on WSND-AM 64 
Th1s week. the week endmg March 6, 1965, featunng songs by the Beatles. the Beau Brummels. Gary Lew1s and the Playboys, and a whole lot of others. 
KMA Just to see you sm1le would make my day 
Hey Bopperl 

o. k. so the frog 1s headmg for the docks w1th the goods 1n a knapsack. nght? . o.k. so anyway. so at the doct<s IS the Phone Man. o.k. so the Phone Man runs the dropoff for The Cousm ... o.k. so anyway. he has th1s assistant named Caddyshack (Yeah. lily! the mov1e.. I know tt shard to believe. but 1t s true... ) o:k. so whenever a bagman makes a drop. they g1ve h1m a telephone 1nstead of a rece1pt because 
you can trace rece1pts, but you cant trace telephones. 
(the end is near .. .) 

ESOPHAGUS CONSTRICTORS-ONLY. 
4.0 TEAM ON CAMPUS!!!!! 

smerd... 
is a freshman. 
JOHN, YOU STINK LIKE HELL!!! 
JOAN HANSEN Will do ANYTHING to get a birthday present, so call her up Sunday. (2278), on her birthday and see what she can do tor you! 
Dave A . g1ve Joan H. what she REALLY wants th1s Fnday mght!! 
GOING TO THE WASHINGTON. D.C. AREA FOR BREAK? A SECOND D.C. BUS WILL BE AVAILABLE IF AND ONLY IF THIRTY OR MORE PEOPLE SHOW UP TONIGHT MARCH 5 ON FIRST FLOOR LAFORTUNE. BE EARLY! IF YOU CANNOT MAKE IT, SEND A FRIEND. 
NEED A RIDE TO D.C. FOR SPRING BREAK? A SECOND D.C. BUS WILL BE AVAILABLE IF 30 OR MORE PEOPLE SHOW UP TONIGHT MARCH 5 AT 7 PM ON FIRST FLOOR LAFORTUNE--BE EARLY--IF YOU CANNOT MAKE IT. SEND A FRIEND. 
TERESE. ITS NOT ~OVE. ITS JUST CHORALE!!! 
r11 never be far enough away from Peona. 
Does Michelle Schneider really have earlobes? 
DEAR CC: HAPPY 22nd BIRTHDAY TO A TRULY WONDERFUL SISTER AND BEST FRIEND HAVE A TERRIFIC TIME IN FLORIDA AND DONT PARTY TOO MUCH. LOVE ALWAYS. ANNE 
Bill. 
AHhough rm upset because you spend so much time w1th Therese. you re st1ll enough of a stud to rnent a personal: 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! 
Your roommate 
I My baby 1s a cry. cry baby. she s1ts on my lap and bawls. 
Beware the return of the reformed. He Will carne bact< stronger than before 
Come to the Observer Cardinal Roast. 
Sandy Comb1ne the best of both worlds LJck your toes/ 
Ryan 
Lisa Heres one tor all those others to wonder about. Nothing is better then sinking into those chasms ... 
Ryan 
p.s. Tour any monuments lately? 
JEANNE D · HOWS ABOUT UNA LET­TERA TO A LONELY SORELLA AT SMC! SAY HI TO BERNIE FOR ME MISS Y A MUCH JANE 
SHERI. Heres the personal I prom1sed you. Sorry about V·DAY Ill '<lake 1t up to you next year 
Happy Fnday to the wildest group of 
B. P ers · I he first floor 

Sports Special -Hockey Friday, March 5, I982 -page II 
Seniors Perry, Rothstein lead icers 
By MICHAEL OLENIK has a t"c:c:ling that thc:ir perlimnancc:s than Rothstc:in and c:ventually Dave .~purls \f'ri/er arc not quite.: finished. Poulin. "I guess I'm happy with the way Tht· lllJUI")' dampened his 
To most anyone who vc:nturc:s by this ye::ar has gone for me, btl! I'll bt· thoughts of a complctt· nHnchack. a Notre Dame hockey game. the the: first to admit that l'n· missed hut the picture hrightt·ncd when he names Rothstein and Pc:rl")' arc: but more: than my share ol oppor­returnnl to tht· lint·up with two words that conjure up imagc:s of tunitic:s. " admit!> Rothslt: "The goab against Ferris State thrn· dedication and hustle: pcrsonitkd most important thing b 1 .11 tht· wn·ks ago. llowcvcr, everything through two distinct stylc:s of hock­season is far from ovc:r and \,, all can wasn't quite: back to normal. cy. make up for the missed charu:c:s in Instead, Pt•rry found himself 
For many. the: swc:atc:r that dis­the next ft·w weeks." skating with Rex Bellomy and Kirt plays Number 9 is no lc:ss than a blur Of course::, the Grand Rapids. \-lin­Bjork, rather than the almost cus­when its wearc:r takes a shift -a fact nesota, native is refc:rna>~:, lo the tomary alignment of Poulin and not due: c:ntirdy to the: c:ffc:cts ofhap­Rothstein. The change was made bt·­py hour. lnstt:ad, it is the darting '' ... theseason ts'fi£:" causc of Jeff Logan's smooth transi­style and stc:ady spurts of spet:d that tion to the first line, and although make: it most difficult to ascertain from over and we alt Pt'fry understandably misses his old the namc on his back. lim:mates, things havc worked out 
On the: other hand, Numbc:r 12 is can make upfor the wdl for both he and the tt·am. often spottc:d c:itht:r campt·d in front "I've had to make an adjustmcnt of the: cage or on top of an opposing missedchances in lwcaust· Kirt and Rcx arc mtlt'h dif· dc:l"c:nseman in the corncr. No mat­fcrent from Dave and Bill, hut tht· tt·r which situation. its a good bc:t the next few weeks. ' ' change secms to havc hdpt·d tlw that the big right winger got the best team. and thats what its all about. Wc of the dc:al. CCI lA playolls rhat face: L ..s Irish ddinitdy fc:d that the: tt·arn is quick­
In all, Bill Rothstein and Jeff Pc:rl")· team which t'ntt·rs the tournamc:nt ly gc:tting ready to continut· on in have done what thc:y do best for the St'l'dt·d fourth. As li>r tht· prospn.:ts, the playoiis." last four yc:ars, and despite thdr the kit winger st-c:m~ somewhat Sut·h conlltkncc warranl s some rdative ob~curity in term~ of contldcnt. type of explanation. and l't'fry b 
Tbe jJmductil•il)' ofplu)'ers like.folm Higgins ( 22) .. 'Hark Doman campu~ prominence. they have "I think we're in pretty good posi· quick to giw it. I /H) U/1(/ /Jrenl Chufmum (7) on Notre IJame's third and fourtb btTn very successful at it. tion. and I think that pla\·ing \Iicht· "lis nut only the qualitY of the lines nmld he a /.:eJ• in this ll'eekend'sf!luyoff.~eries 11'itb .l1icbigan. Regardless of the accolades. both gan might t \"l'n he to our advantagt·. players. hut the rdalionship he·· ( l'hutu hv}ohn \/acur) It will hl our otft-nM· ag;tin~t their twt.Til 1hem. In pas1 years. there 
dekn~t·. ~" thtng~ should ht· st'l'nll.·d to he some segregation ht' intere,ting." t\\ tTn dasst·s. hut this ~T;tr we'n: 
l'or hoth playt-r~ thu~ far. 1hc mort· t'Oill:t'rncd \\ ith pia~ ing hock statistic~ dot·umenl a sea~on thai t')'. It has lwconll' a matter of dt•·or would imprc:~s just aboul anyom· die\\ ilh us. and I know that \\T don't 
3rd,4th lines 
who kno\\' Ihe spllrt. and ,til hough want things to end yet." 
Rothstt·in'~ "iO puinl~ sland dt·arly as Tht· wa)· that tht· Irish have By MIKE ~cMANllS lkasey anu has pumped in eleven ( :ullard, a 6-0, ll)'i-pound brubc:r an achd\"l·ment. it has bLUl thl· at· handled tlwmsdves I;Hdy. l'nq ·, \lmris \\"'·iJer J.(oab this season including one who haib from Flint..\1 ic:h. Collard i11 compi~hmcnh of l't·rry thai eon hupt·s nught vt'fy \\ dl hc: nalizt·d. 
gatnl·-winner. Chapman. who hails 
Irish depth key to recent success 
'' crowd favorite who plays a vtTy rinucs to open many eyes hlll as Rothstl'in is quick lo point 
Thi' \\ t•ckend'~ home playoff lrom Agincourt. Ontario. is a smooth agressin· brand of hockey and al­It wa~ last season that the .:;.l), IH"i t>UI, it won'l hc casy. st·m·s againsl the .\lichigan \X'ol skater who kc:b just as comli>rtabk ways givt·s his best, as l'airholm pound ~t·nior ti·om ~udbury. Ontario "They ( \ltdtigan) will make it verilll'S rcprest·nt~ the ntlmination digging the puck out of the corner. points olll. "Dan is a hard skating produced a disappointing I I poinb HT\' challc.:nging ll> get 10 lktroit. ol a rl·markahk turnaround hy the Tht: stabilizing force on thl· third player who works hard and plays on on seven assists and ju~t four goals. hut hdng al homt· Gill ddlnitdy ht· :"olotrc Dame hockt·y team. as they line is junior right wing John Hig· his strc:ngth. I'm happy with his play In light of hb 2:'1 and 2-poinl oul­an advantage If we t:an dr;m a good have rdloundl·d trom a di1>astl·rous gin~>. It is !Iiggins' job to keep t'VC:I")'· and I fed he is very important to us" puts the two prl'Viou~ years. the crowd, it will take away from thdr lirM half of the scason to hc:comc: a thing togc:ther while the young lint: If Notre Dame: is to continue it's st·ason was lablt-d a disaster by both play and that's just the kind of edgt· 
li>rct· to he reckonc:d with in the: is on tht· icc: and ht· has pc:rtimned hot play of late and dispatch \-1ic:hi­Perl")· anti Irish hockL'Y enthusiasts. that "t' ntTd." impt·mling CCHA playoffs. admirably thus far. "John has hdpc:d gan this wc:c:kc:nd, the: third and This year. however. a~ htTn a dif· l 1ndouhtc:dly. if homt· support While mo~t of the: hc:adlinc:s thc othc:r two a lot," commc:nts Fair­fourth linc:s will have to continue: fc:rc:nt story. In the sc:ason's first was t·vcr nt-c:dc:d, it is l<>r this dash 
during this rc:surgencc: have: tkalt holm, "and I look to him to be a their imprt·ssivc: outings. The: Irish sc:ric:s alone, Perry scorcd li>Ur goals with tht· \X'olvc:rincs who have mort· with the exploits of the Irish scoring leader out there." Higgins feels that will need to display the hustlt· and and addcd two assists. After 14 than rnotivt· li>r rt·vt·ngl'. But most kaders, attention must also be given the line: is a pc:rfect mix, "We work detc:rmination that havt: brought games, he was at the: top of the Irish importantly. a largt· and t·nthusiastic 
to the important contributions that well together because:: Dc:asey has thc:m this far. Mark Doman summc:d scoring charts with I I goals and I 0 crowd would make the farewc:ll to have bt:c:n made by the tc:am's third good speed, Chaps is a natural scorer it up best whcn he statc:d, "As long as assists, and up to a mid-sc:ason liga­sc:niors likt· .Jc:ff Perry and Bill and fourth lines. and I can handle: mysc:lf in the cor­our minds arc: sc:t on the game:, we ment injUI")', Pcrry wrc:stlc:tl with Rothstein just a lillk mort· meaning­ner." can play with anyone:." scoring kadc:rship with no other lui and a lot more: enjoyable
Both the third and fourth linc:s Junior centc:r Mark Doman is tht:
havc played major, albt:it lt:ss leader of the: fourth lint: and the St.
noticcabk rolt:s in the team's recent 
Cloud, Minn., product fc:ds his line:11ucceses due to tht:ir tight-cht:cking 
contributes in many ways to the
styks of play. When qut:ric:d about 
1982 CCHA Playoffs
team's overall fortunes. "I don't set:the two lines, though, Irish assistant us as just a defensive:: line:, but also ascoach Tt:rry Fairholm is hesitant to an offensive threat. Wt:'ve gottt:n
dcscribc thc players as strictly Bowling Green (1) 
dd"c:nsivc-minded or to some btg goals, and our tc:ammates
t:vcn rate 

look for us to get the team going if
ont• lint: above the other. "I hesitate we're in a lull." Fairholm has nothingto rank thc:m at all. Wt: look to both but praise to sing about Doman bothof them for a checking gamt:, but individually and as a tt:am playc:r,
both lines have:: come up with some 
"Mark's a rt:al mature:: kid who has anbig goals for us this year." 
enormous heart and wants to win 
Freshman John Deast:y ct:ntc:rs badly. Mark controls the flow of tht: what is ostensibly the third line and play and that's important with the: has been imprt:ssivc: in his first diffcrent stylt: ofhis wings." season under the North dome of the Doman's right wing is patrolled by 
ACC. The Edina, Minn., native has junior Dave Lucia, whose:: play oflatt: garnt:rt:d tl vt: goals this st:ason has impressed Coach Fairholm. "I despite bc:ing slowed rt:cc:ntly by a though Dave playt:d his bt:st gamc 
brokcn jaw. "Dcasey is a good all­Saturday as ht· stayt:d in great posi­around player with a lot of poten­tion both offensively and dcft:nsivc­tial," notes Fairholm. ly. Hc skates wc:ll and I think hc:'s 
Brt·nt Chapman, another bc:t·n a critical factor for us." freshman, mans the left wing for The line's kft wing is senior Dan 
.Playoffs

' ' 
continued from page 16 
\lc:"olamara will provide any necdell sn>rt·r Bill Rothstein. as each Mts­
backup, just a~ he ha~ done so wdl 
throughout his three yc:ars on the
taitll·d injuril's during last wt-c:k's squad.
seril'~ with \\"cstt·rn \lichigan. 
\\'hid1ever way you look at it. thisPoulin's mid·\\ tTl-; n·turn to 
n-ry wdlcould he the biggest seric~
practice ~ignilks that hl' will see ac­in "lotre Dame hockey history. :mdtion. a~ will the t·vt·r-dangerous 
Roth~tl'in. ;tithough both might bt· at l(>r the studt·nts to recognize that k~s than lull spn·d. 
fact. and act upon it. could make 1>;1\T l.aurion will probably gt·t Detroit and subsequent aliYance­tht· starting nod in goal. as his I 5-'>-I 
ments a reality li>r this tL·am -one 
thai dl·Spl·ratdy wanb to pron· that
rtTord indudL·~ both wins and the 
it belong~ nt·ar the top.
tit· again~! \lid1gan. t H t:ourst·. Bob 

The Observer-Sports Friday, March 5., 1982 -page 12 
Travis Guidry 
Modest Guidry praises brother 

FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. (AP) ­

Ron Guidry, whose 95-mile-an-hour 
fastball is the terror of the American 
League, wears his success lightly. 
The real hero of the Guidry clan, 

he insists, is his 14-year-old kid 
brother, Travis. 
"What I have done in baseball is nothing compared with what Travis has done in the last few years," Guidry, the left-bander from Lafayette, La., said Thursday before taking the field for another New York Yankee workout. 
Whereas most Yankees are point­ing to another World Series, Guidry is looking to double blessing -the World Series and the Olympics. 
Not the: 1984 Olym{!l'ics in Los An­geles. The annual Special Olympics for the mentally retarded. That's where Travis' eyes glisten and he radiates happiness. 
"The regional Special Olympics this year are in Baton Rouge, close by home," Guidry said. "I am looking forward to them." 
The relationship between the Yankee pitcher and his brother, al­though their ages are 17 years apart, is one of the beautiful stories in sports, enhanced by the program sponsored by Eunice Shriver and Et­hel Kennedy. 
Guidry recalls that when Travis was born, doctors held little hope for him. After seven months, the baby weighed only five pounds. When Travis cried, tears ran down his cheeks but no sounds came from his throat. 
The Yankee pitcher never despaired. As Travis began to grow, Guidry spent every idle moment with him. They romped and played together, ran, threw baseballs, shot basketballs. 
"He has been going to a special school for the last nine years," Guidry said. "He is aware of every­thing that goes on around him and 
continued from page 16 
against the Irish. 
But on the next seven or eight oc­
cassions, the Golds committed un­
forced turnovers, half of which 
resulted in transition baskets for a 
team that was meant only to play 
defense in the drill. 
It's been that way all season long, 
even in victory. 
According to DiStanislao, it's been 
like that for tomorrow's guests as 
well. 
"Michigan State has been up and 
down all year," she says ofthe 14-11 
Spartans. "As the season has gone on, 
though, they've begun to play bet­
ter. They're capable of playing well 
enough to beat a team like DePaul 
(which they did earlier this season, 
60-52), but they've also lost some 
unexpected games. Within the past 
month, they've found their running 
game, and that has corresponded to 
their starting to pull things togeth­
er." 
That's been another Irish nemesis 
-quickness. DiStanislao's club has 
had trouble with transition teams. In 
fact, all of the eight Notre Dame 

he can now make complete sen­tences." 
Competing in the Special Olym­pics, Guidry added, has given the youngster a tremendous boost. Travis' best event is throwing the softball. He runs well but in races doesn't try to beat his opponents. 
''He gets in front and lets the other kids catch up," Ron said. "The fun is in running, not winning." 
Travis knows most of the Yankees by their position in the field rather than number, but he is only in­terested in what his big brother does. 
"Sometimes when I call home fter a game, Travis is anxious to know whether I won or got bombed," Guidry said. 
"He's a wonderful kid." 

...Women 
losses have come against teams that like to push the ball up the floor. 
At times, the Irish have been reasonably successful at stopping the running games of quicker op­ponents, but usually, it has been at the wrong times: UCLA, .\1iami and DePaul were all stymied for a good portion of their games with Notre Dame, but all converted late transi­tion baskets to beaJ the Irish; Mount St. Mary's did it throughout the entire second half of the champion­ship game of the Penn Holiday Tournament: Butler, Illinois, South Carolina and Nebraska did it at will. 
The Irish can escape with a win tomorrow if thc;y don't allow that to happen again. As DiStanisao says, "If you stop their break, you've taken away a good bit oftheir game." 
Taking away a good bit of MSU's game could mean win No. 17 for the Irish. That would be a feather in DiS­tanislao's cap, turning around a team that was 10-18 a year ago, and doing it against a stronger schedule. 
It also would do Notre Dame's pride and ego a whole lot of good, which is just fine, since that may be all they have left. 


The Observer -Sports Friday, March 5, 1982 -page 13 
Sunday night 
Bengal Bouters begin brawrls 
By WILL HARE 
Sports Wrilt't' 
Pairings wc:.·rc:.· announced yester­day li1r the 19H2 Notre Dame Bengal 
Bout~. 
Co-Presidents Dickie llillsman 
and John Donovan conducted 
weigh-in~ last ni)!ht and li1rrned the 
sdtedule li1r '\9 lighters in I 0 weight 
classes. 
"We pairnl them acording to ability in a given weight range," said llillsman. "We didn't want to mis­match anybody, so we matched guys with similar st vies." 
Among the bouts on Sunday will be the Larry Andrl'ini-Tim McCor­mick dash. Thc winncr will takl· on the No. 2 secd John lglar. Defending champion .\1ikc: Walsh is cxpcctcd to bc: challengc:d in Thursday's finals. 
But pcrhaps the: most cxciting weight dass is the: lightest. Thrcc: ncwcomc:rs will light in thc 11rst round in I~'\-lb. class. A couple of cxdting noviccs, Tonv Bonacci and Mike Dandurand, do. battlc, while John Klec: tightsJo Jo Luccro. 
"Among othc:r tightc:rs to watc:.·h Sunday will be Frank Manc:ri and Kc:.·vin Ringcr," addc:d Hillsman. 
Illinois upset Iowra, wrin in overtim.e by 6 
CIIAMI'AIGN. Ill. (AI') -Illinois, hdtind hot sc:cond-half shooting by sc·nior guard Craig Tuckcr and M'nior n·ntcr Jamc:s Griffin, upsct 
I lth-ranked Iowa 7~-6 7 in ovcrtimc 
laM night. 
The: lllini stagc:.·d a frantic sc:cond­
half rally aftcr trailing by 16 points 
with I ~:21 to go. lllinois chipped 
away at the: kad and made two cru­
cial stc:als in thc linalminutc. 
Forward l'c:rry Rangc hit a jump shot with ~4 scconds kft and guard Dc:rc:k Harpt·r tippcd in a missed jumpcr by Tuckcr with sc:ven scconds rc:maining to tic thc game. Iowa's Kenny Arnold bardy misscd a long jump shot at the: huzzcr and rc:gulation ended with the: score 60­
60. 
lllinois got only its second lcad of 
continued from page lb 
-a Michigan record. 
"Thad plays collc:ge haskcthall the 
way it was meant to be playcd," says 
Frieder. "he is tough. intense: and a 
gn·at compctitior. Thad is thc con­
summate captain and leader and one 
of thc: hardcst working athlctcs I've 
cvcr scen." 
Garner avc:ragc:s just undcr 14 
points and six rebounds pcr game, 
and ranks among the conferenn· 
kader~ in both catc:gorics. But he is 
not the big gun for .\lichigan. 
That honor got:!> to frcshman Eric 
Turnc:.·r, a 6-3 guard from Flint. Tur­
ncr is a streak shootcr who rarely 
hits a cold !>pell. I lis livc:-of-six shoot­
ing from the llqor and six-of-six from 
the line in the sccond half made the: 
up~c:.·t of the:.· llawkeyc:.·s possihk. 
"Turner is as good a shooter as we han-in the confcrenc:.T," says In­diana c:.·oac:.·h Bohhy Knight. "\X'hc:.·n he gets hot you can tc:ll the:.· hall is )!oinJ.I in as SCHill as it lcavc:s his hand." 
The: quartc:.·rback of the: .\1khigan otli:nsc a!> wdl as its major weapon, Turncr is sixth in the Big Tc:n in scoring and assists, with l·t.<; points anti ·!. 3 assists pn gaml·. 
"I'm happy wc:'rt• playing wc:ll," say~ Turner. "But I'm happic:r li>r the: rc:ward this team c:arnnl hy way of gamc:.·s like the upset of Iowa. \X'c:'ve J.IWWn into a family now and win­ning just brought us closc:r togc:ther -that's the: bc:st part of all." 
t>hdps's !>quad b coming off a party-like: win ovc:r Northern Iowa Tuesday night, one:.· of the: ft-w rc:ally fun games of thl' sc:ason. :-.low thq· want to go out on a roll. 
"\tkhigan started out the: same way we: did." says Phc:lps. "But thc:y've comc back to win somc big gamc:s through the: middle ofthc Big the game in thc overtimc whcn for­ward Bryan l.c:.·onard hit two free throws with 4:09 to go. The lllini, 9­H in the Big Ten anti 16· I 0 overall, nc:ver rclinquishc:d the lc:ad. 
For Iowa, the loss was its fourth in thc last six games anti dropped the Hawkeyes to 12-'\ in thc Big Ten anti .20-6 overall. The Hawkcycs had gone: into thc game tit-d with Min· 
nesota for the: conference: lead. 
Arnold was the: game-high scorcr 
with 20 points, 14 of them on free 
throws. Fn:shman ccnter Michael 
Payne got 16 and senior forward 
Kevin Boyle added 13 points. 
Illinois' leading scorcrs were Grif­
fin and Tucker with 16 cach. Range 
got I '\ and Leonard added 13 for the 
lllini. 

... Hoops 
Ten season. 
"We want to play well more than anything bc:causc: thesc gamcs at the end of thc ycar arc the ones you remcmber, espccially for somconc likc Mikc Mitchc:ll." 
The: Sunday game: at the Sil­verdome will be the last for \titchc:ll anti Garnc:r, both of whom have providc:d lcadc:rship anti inspiration for thc:ir squads in their rolcs as cap­tain. But the: game: will also mark the c:nd of a frustrating year for both Phelps and Fric:dc:r. 
While: Notre: Damc:'s yc:ar can be: charactcrizcd as nothing hut dis­appointing, the: Wolvc:rinc:s have: pulktl thdr sc:.·ason olll of the: tire. and gainnl a great dc:al of rc:spcc­tahility in thcir confc:renn:. Fric:dl·r will rc:cc:ive strong consilkration as Big Tc:n Coach-of-thc:-Year, and in fact could he: considc:rc:d the: front­runnc:r. 
So the season will come: to a do~e li1r the Irish undc:r the: Sil-vcrdomc:­not the: Supc:rdomc:. It has bc:c:n a long road, and :'\lotn· Dame: would like nothing hctcc:.-r than ti1r the last kw milc:s to be: c:asy onc:s. But \til.:hi­gan is c:nding thdr sc:ason with op­timism, and tht· promise: of a bright future:, and thc:y will be: looking to put a linal roadbl<Kk in the: path of 
.the Irish. 

r----------~-----~---~---1 
Mancri tights in thc 140-lb. limit and Bingc:r is in the: 16'\-lb. class. 
In thc Supcr-Hcavywc:ight Class, only two 11ghtcrs were classificd. Mark Lc:Bianc is back again to take on Andy Pandli in the title fight for that dass. 
Twc:nty matchc:s will be: fought in Sunday's opc:ning round, beginning at I :~0 in the: ACC. The: semi-linals will take place on Tuesday night at 7:~0. Thursday night marks thc tinals, again to he: covcretl by NBC Sports. 
Student tkkcts may be: purchascd !i1r all thrc:e sessions for $2.00, with all procc:eds going to the: missions in Bangladc:sh. 
llc:rc: arc the 11rst-round pairings: 
135 pound.• l>i~o:ku: Hilh.man -BYE Mih Dam.lurand v~. Ton)' Bomu.:c.:i 
Jo Jo l.uf.:cro vs. John Kkt..· 
Don Md...aunn -BYE 
140 pounds \-1ikt.· ~tartcr~tcck -BYE K1.·vm 1~11ll''1' V!t. 1-rank \iancri 
Jim T)·rrl'll V!rl. Pat St:rgl· John Stcpht·n~ -HYE 
I 'IS pounds 

Tom Hu!r!h -HYI: Chra!r! ~oha Y!rl. Bc.:rc:!!lfurd Clark<: \11kc: Latz vs. Amhunr St:ordo llul.(h Griffith -HYE 
150pounds Jim .\11adcnik -BYE ,lot..· Mt..·a~hl·r vs. Tom Lc:zynllkl 
l'aul I )c:rba vs. Tom Shaughn1:!!1!r!)' Steve Skrawski -BYI: 
155 pounds 

John l>ononn -BYE Mikl' Doyen n. Robc.:rt Cooner jim ~mith V!!l. Bnd Bm:th:hcr Ed Dulld1 -BYE 
160 pounds 

Greg Hrophy -8\'1~ Dan Doohc:r vs.john Fulginiei 
Mikt· Smith vs. Brian NeiMm 
Mark lci~:ting -BYE 
165pounds Mikt: Cray vs. Dan Watzkt: l>avc Packu v~. Angt:lo Perino Kevin Hingl·r vs. john Ric:t: Man Cruoks vs. lknni~ Crunk 
175 pounds .\1ikt: Hurkl'-BYI: Mikl' Sullivan vs. Doug ~aihatfer ~ikl' Finnq· vs. Greg ~anin Dave SaMano -BYE 
Heavyweight Mike Walsh -BYE 
Tom Mazzone vs. Ril:h Renzi Tim Md:ormh.:k vs. Larry Andrt'ini john lglar -DYE 
Super-Heavyweight Mark L<:Bian<· -BYE 
Andy Pandli -BYE 
lr·H·E..6.i\1fA.o'iT5Ei 
~ • Beer , ~ 
! l' Open tdl !
: • tquor c 
5 3·00amllli
. ·ea . ....
e• rry out 
i 

-SINGLES BAR 
I 5 

-BOOZE &DANCING 272·7818
i 

U.S. 31 North (I block souih of Holidatj Inn)
............................................................. 
.... 

The: Notre: Dame: womc:n's baskcthall tcam, coachc:d by Mary DiS­tanislao, has done a complctc turnaround this scason. The: tcam, which lookc:d for a whilc to be tournamc:nt bound, has provcn to be: on thc risc. The Irish dose: their scason against Michigan Statc this wc:c:kend. (Photo by Cheryl Ertel!) 
INTERESTED IN LIVING OR WORKING IN BRITAIN OR IRELAND THI.S SUMMER? 
Representatives of 
e ENCOUNTER IRELAND e WORK IN IRELAND 
• ENCOUNTER BRITAIN 
will be on campus Monday, March 8,1982 Informal Discussion 10:00 am to 12:00 noon International Student Lounge Slide Presentation 2:00pm Lafortune Amphitheatre 
... 

·t 6Hotdishes&15SaladBarltems.
Buy 

tM!. GREAT wAll 
t ;.l-~r Chinese &American Restaurant t~r t7 Cocktail Lounge
t 1 . 
Hanquer rooms auailable Hanquet 5 group rates auatlable
t 

Carry Out Auai!Gble Happy Hour 5:00-7:00 pm Mon.-Sat. 
' Best Chinese 5American Food in Town t ' *Reasonably Priced : FEATURING: 
t •BUFFET• • .$2.99 
t Great for your next Business Man's Lunch t Weekdays--11 :30-3:00 
Observer 
t e COMBINATION PLATTER 
f (Includes 10 Items) •••$3.95 : Includes Soup, Eggrolls & Pork Fried Rice 
classifieds! 
'­

~0%0FF t 
Any D1nneron Menu t 
(excludes Specials &Buffet) f 
WITH THIS COUPON  A  
'  
Also FREE Coffee or Tea with dinner (WITH couPoN)  tft  

___.:_x!t~:_~~~!:~~--j 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
_) 

Mon.-Thurs.: 1 ~~~-~~;O:OOp.m. t
1 !f

Fri.&sat ...... J1:3oa.m.-ll:oop.m. sun.......m. 
,
;-· t

~~~~~~~~~wv.saulh l ,_ t 
Roseland 't'.:l t 
172-:73_7:0_. t 
The Observer-Sports Friday, March 5, 1982-page 14 

Senior Bill Rothstein will lead the Irish leers against Michigan in the first round ofthe CCHA playoffs at the ACC tonight and Saturday night at 7:30p.m. Tickets are still available. See :vtike Olenik's preview on page 16 and the hockey special on page 11. (Photo byJohn :vtacor) 
~ SUNDAY MASSES 
~~~ATSACBEDHEABTCHUBCH 
Masses are for Sunday, March 7,1982 
5:15PM Saturday  Rev. David Schlaver, C.S.C.  
9:00AM Sunday  l.ev. Prank Cafarelli, C.S.C.  
10:30 AM Sunday  l.ev. Richard McBrien  
12:15 PM Sunday  l.ev. David Schlaver, C.S.C.  
7:15PM Vespers  Prof. Katherine Tillman  

i!Utigltt.& of <!Lolumb1lli sponsors an ADMISSION DEGREE Sunday, March 7 at 1:30pm All prospective Knights are 
invited to attend. Coat and Tie requested 
K of C Hall 
Down south 

Irish baseball team opens season 
ByjOE CUFF 

Sports Writer 
Since returning from Christmas break, the Notre Dame baseball team has been patiently preparing for opening day. Starting on January 13, the team members have been in the ACC taking batting practice, working on infield and outfield skills, and working their arms into shape. 
The season opens when the team makes a trip to Oklahoma during spring break, with the first game on March 14 against Illinois. 
"It's going to be a challenging trip," says Head Coach Larry Gallo. "Last year we came back 0-7-1. It's definitely going to be a setback be­cause the teams we will be playing in Oklahoma will have a few weeks ad­vantage of being outside. The first time we take the field will be our first time outside." 
The competition will be tough and Gallo is attempting to make it tougher every year. "Each year," he says, "I try to beefup the schedule. A tougher schedule can only help build a stronger program." 
After coming off a 23-16-1 season last year, the team looks towards im­provement. "The way this team is going to win games," Gallo stated, "will depend on our pitching and defense. We're not going to have awesome power but we will have a lot of singles and doubles hitters. We'll score some runs." 
Ifthis team can score as last year's did, and the pitching and defense holds up, it could be a very success­ful year. 
The team will consist ofa solid in­field with a lot of versatility. Senior co-captains Henry Valenzuela and Chuck Tasch head the \ist. Henry Valenzuela, a three-year starter at first base, hit .385 last year with eight home runs and 44 RBI's, ear­ning him most valuable player on the team and third-team Academic All-America honors. Tasch, a .337 hitter in 1981, will be back at second base and possibly could see some ac­tion at third. 
Also in contention for second base is senior Scott Siler, who hit .333 last year while seeing only limited action. Jack Moran, a fres­hamn from Memphis, Tenn., also stands a good shot at seeingsome ac­tion at second base. 
Tim Prister, a .307 hitter in 1981, has a solid hold on third base. Also a candidate at third is sophomore Jim Dee, who hit .250 in nine games this past fall. 
A few players have a shot at the shortstop position. Junior Rick Chryst appears to be the top can­didate, depending on how well he can get over a knee injury from the winter. He collected a . 341 batting average last year, while also knock­ing in 22 runs. If he is unable to recover completely from his injury he could be limited to action as a left fielder. 
In that case,Jason Shomer, a fresh­man, and senior joe Barrows, could battle for the job. Shomer;from jack­son, Mich., possesses a strong arm and could find the position vacant for him to step into. Barrows, after hitting .444 in four games this fall, could also contend for the shortstop position. 
The catcher's spot also will be very competive. mainly due to the loss of last year's leading hitter, Joe Montagano. Phil Dingle, Tim Ambrey and freshman David Clark all have a shot, with the junior Dingle and the senior Ambrey being the top candidates. Last fall, Dingle hit .316 in six games while Ambrey hit .192 in eight games. 
The pitching this year will consist of everyone possibly being a starter or a reliever. Gallo feels with the long, tough schedule, ( 48 games in 52 days), most of which are doubleheaders, the pitchers will be decided on who is loose and ready that day, with the possibility of relievers helping out as starters and vice-versa. 

The top returning starters are senior Bryan Smith and juniors Steve Whitmyer and Bill Matre. Also in the rotation should be senior John Ebert, junior Greg Jaun and fresh­man Bob Lopes. 
The relievers, as they are con­sidered right now, consist of sophomores Larry Lackner and Mark Clementz. Senior Tom Conroy and junior Steve Gallinaro also will be given some duty in the bullpen. Rounding out the relievers are soph­omores Bob Hickey and Tom Conlin and junior Bill Stonikas. 
If everything fits into the right places and some import~nt ques­tions are answered early, this could be a very successful year for the Irish baseball team. Perhaps the team will get some of the "Luck of the Irish" that seemed to pass over the football and basketball teams this year. 

Great Lakes Championships 
Fencers thrust toward Detroit 
By BILL MARQUARD 
Sports Writer 
Slowed but certainly not stopped 
by its first loss ofthe season, the Irish 
men's fencing team heads to the Uni­
versity of Detroit this weekend for 
the Great Lake Championships. Fen­
.cing action starts at 8:00 a.m. tom­
morrow with the semifinal and final 
bouts on Sunday. 
Notre Dame, 20-1 on the season, 
and Wayne State are once again con­
sidered the teams to beat. The Tar­
tars, who handed Notre Dame its 
first loss ofthe season on Friday, and 
the Irish have finished in the top two 
spots in the Championships in the 
last nine years and in 12 of the last 
14. But Irish coach Mike DeCicco never discounts the rest ofthe field. 
"Detroit, Cleveland State and several other teams have a very good chance this season,"remarked DeCicco. "Since each school can send only two representatives in a weapon, two good fencers can really spell success for a team." 
The Irish boast a pair of two-year Great Lakes Championship veterans among the six fencers heading for Detroit. Junior Marc Dejong ( Pretoria,South Africa; 34-7 record) will fence in his third foil champion­ship after finishing fourth as a fresh­man and fifth last season. Junior epeeist Rich Daly (Centereach, N.Y.; 31-7 record) will defend his 1981 Great Lakes title after finishing second as a freshman. 

Joining Dejong on the foil strip is Jim Thompson (Oberlin, Ohio), who boasts a 32-10 record as foil captain. Daly will team with one of two freshmen fencing for the Irish, Andy Quaroni of San Antonio, Tex. Quaroni boasts a 34-7 record on the season. 
In sabre, two first-time Great Lakes entrants hold the fate of the Irish. Senior captain Sal D'Allura (Centereach, N.Y.) takes his 37-13 mark into the weekend along with 
freshman Mike Janis (Franklin, N.J.; 
35-1 0 record). 
The top five fencers in each weapon from the Great Lakes Cham­pionships as well as the top three from the Big Ten tournament qualify for the NCAA Championships, which will be held at Notre Dame .\1arch 16-18. Also, two at-large fen­cers from either or both of the leagues will qualify as well. 
The Irish men captured the Great Lakes Championships as a team for four straight years between 1975 and 1978. Wayne State has turned the trick the past three seasons. 
The Irish women, I 1-7 on the season, also will send two representatives to the Champion­ships. Junior captain Susan Valdiserri (South Bend, Ind.; 26-18 record) or sophomore Sharon DiNicola (Huntington,N.Y.; 23-23 record). 
The Irish have captured two women's championships alone, and one as a combined Notre Dame­Saint Mary's team. Their last title came in 1978. Three fencers from each weapon will qualify for the NCAA Women's Championships slated at San jose March 25-27. 
"We have been very pleased with our 20-1 men's season and 11-7 wo!llen's record," said DeCicco. "However, all that is behind us as we take the first step on the road to the NCAA Championships." 

Andrettisettlesfor secondplacefinish 
NEW YORK (AP) Mario Andretti and U.E. "Pat" Patrick offi­cially gave up their quest yesterday for victory in the 1981 Indianapolis 500 after nine months of protests, appeals and hearings. 
The driver and car-owner have exhausted their appeals within the racing establishment and would have had to go to civil court to carry on their battle to have Andretti sup­plant Bobby Unser as winner of the race run last May 24. 
"We will not take further action in the civil courts," Patrick said Thursday from his Jackson, Mich., office. "We have considered many factors very carefully and decided[.() let this remain a major issue for the racing community itselfto resolve." 
Unser crossed the finish line five seconds ahead of Andretti, but the latter was declared the winner the next morning after race officials, representing the U.S. Auto Club, penalized Unser one lap for illegally passing several cars while coming out of the pits during a caution period. 

That dropped Unser to second place and apparently cost him and the team run by Roger S. Penske about S130,000 in prize money. An immediate protest to USAC was turned down, but a subsequent ap­peal before a special three-man USAC-appointed panel was carried 2-1 after a long hearing and the filing ofbriefs by the opposing sides. 
That decision, which did not come until September, gave Unser back his third Indy 500 victory and the top prize of S299,124, but fined him and the Penske team S40,000. 
The majority of the panel found Unser guilty of the passing viola­tions, but said officials erred by waiting nearly I 7 hours to assess the penalty rather than doing it im­mediately. 

IheJCt5ecver========================================== 
~~~~~•t==============================F=r=id=.a=y,=M=a=r=ch==5=,1=9=8=2==·=p=ag=e=l=5
\1olarity 


Doonesbury 


\1ichael \1olinelli 

Garry Trudeau 
, 


TH& CCW5lJ. Gf.TOV&I< 
NO. I IT MOM THIS FAMil-Y 
WONT 1-&7 MIGHT N07 ~ON'T YOU 
HIM Hf TWO {}0 ANYTHING 
SCAR£<; TOGCTHff. ANYMOR£> 
THtCOW5 r -~ 
-~;;
~tj' ';t)~~~~(
~~~-c:h ~:~~ \ . 



'"fhe Daily Crossword 

ation 37 Shore bird 16 Bait 38 The Tiber 17 Imitated flows here 18 Passe 39 Comp. pt. 19 Arm bone 40 Glossy 20 Mao's 41 Lured 
author 45 Gremlins 25 Farm 46 Jacob's structure wife 26 Open a wine 47 Porter bottle 50 Blushed 
Thursday's Solution 

54 In a fren· 13 Sign of 
zied manner sorrow 55 Dropsy 21 Rodent 57 Swiss river 23 Eyes, to 58 Proper poets 
season 25 Jack the 59 Spoke con­comedian 
tinuously 26 Berth in 60 Eat a train 61 Suffix with 27 Hospital 
young or worker mob 28 Belief 62 Cobs and 29 Certain pens horses 63 Winter 30 Valerie vehicle Harper's 
TV series DOWN 31 Evil spirit Bose or , 32 Exhausted Anjou 34 Gratings 
2 Wine flask 37 Helicopters 3 Not new 38 Carrottops 4 Clara 40 Body of an 
Barton's organism organiza· 41 Heavy tion metal 
5 Business 43 Basket loss material 6 "-flowing ·44 Fortifies· 
with milk... " tions 7 Hayworth 46 Dud 8 Dutch 47 Darn it! 
Courage" 50 Rockfish 10 Grads 51 Tooth 11 Onion e.g. and­12 "Rule 52 Sea bird 
Campus 
Friday, March 5 
•t2: 
I'; p.m. -Seminar, "Ertropoic:tin lndut.:tion ofRc:d Blood Cc:ll l>iffc:rc:ntiation", Dr. Tania Wc:iss, llnivc:rsity of Chicago. 27H Galvin Life Sdc:nc:c: Cl·tltc:f, Sponsored l:ly Biology Dc:partmc:nt 

• 
12: I<; p.m. -Lenten Mass, Fathl·r Griftin, C.S.C., 'Ba!!c:rnc:nt of LaFortune: 

•.3 
p.m.-WSND-AM Radio, lkatks Wl·c:kc:nd eq . S p.m.·-Tertulia, Vcnga para hablar con nosotr.os y practicar el artc: de: convc:rsar, Bascml·nt of LaFortune:, Sponsorc:d hy Spani~h Club 

•6:4S 
p.m. -Meeting, <:ILA Gc:nl·ral Mc:c:ting, :\kmoria'l Library Lounge: 

•7, 
9:.30 p.m. -Film, "Excalihur", Carroll Hall, Saint :\1ary's Collc:gc, S 1 admission 

•7, 
1'0 p.m. -Film, "Nl·w York, Nc:w York", Enginl·c:ring Auditorium, S I admission 

•7:.30 
p.111. -Film, "The: Gardl·n of the: Finzi· Cominis", Annc:nhc:rg Auditorium, Snitc: Musc:um of Art, Sponsored by Dc:partmc:nt of Comrnunica· tion 'and Thc:atrc:, S I admission 

•7:.30 
p.m. -·WSND-AM Radio, Hockey playoff games, ND vs..\1ichigan 

•H 
p,m. -Play, "The \'l'ild Duc:k", Washington 


Hall, Sponsored l:ly N D-S:\1C Thc:atrc:, ' Saturday, March 6 
•-. 10 p.m. -Film, "New York, Nc:w York", Enginn·ring Auditorium, Sl admission 
•"":.30 p.m. -WSND-AM Radio, llockcy playoff game~. ~ D h ..\1 ichigan 
•H 
p.m.. -Play, "Thl' Wild Duck". Washington llall. Sponsorl·d lw ~D-S:\1C Thc:atrc. Tickc:t:. available 

Sunday, March 7 

•1 
:.30 p.m. -Admission degree, Knight~ of Columhu~.. All prospcctivt.· mt·mlwr~. Knight~ of Columbus Ifall, .Jacket and til' n·qul·sted 

• 
2 p.m. ·-Mass, Emmaus. \las~ with the hand­icapped, .\1orcau Snninarv. l'n·ryonc: •~ wdcome 


•:) p.m. -Voice recital, Joan Elkn \1oorc. \1orc:au llall's l.ittll' Theatre. All;tn· invited 
•<> p.m. -'-WSND-AM Radio, Top Twc:nty Time Tunnc:l 
• 
.., p.m. ~ Meeting, An Tostal Stall l.ah>rtunc: Little Thc:atrc 

•H 
p.m. -Lecture, Contcmpory .'vlorallssucs, Fr. Ed \1alloy, Downstairs in Sacred I kart Church Crypt. Parish Lc:ntcn program 

•H 
p.m. -WSND-AM Radio, Sports Sunday 

•1 
op.m.-WSNO-AM Radio, Rock in Rctrospl-ct 


T.V. Tonight 
9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10:00p;m. 
ll:OOp.m. 
l1:30p.m. 
!2:00a.m. 12:30a.m. 

16 t .\1cCiains Law 
22 Dallas 
28 llc:st of the West 
34 Crc:ativity with Hill ~oycrs 
46 Today with Lc:sti:r Sumrall 
28 ~aking A Living 
34 <ioldc:n Age: ofTc:kvision 
16 Cassie: and Company 
22 CI~S Spl-cial: Lynda Cartc:r 
28 Strike: Force: 
34 A l'rophc:t For All Sl·asons 
46 Jimmy Swaggart Wc:c:kly 
16 Nc:wsCc:ntc:r 16 
22 22 Eyc:witnc:ss Nc:ws 
28 Nl"wswatdl 21! 
34 The: Dk'k Cavc:tt Show 
46 Praise the: I.ord 
16 Tonight Show 22 Be:hind The: Scrc:c:n 28 ABC Nc:ws Nightlinl· 34 Captionl"d ABC Nlews 
22 CBS ~ovic:: "A Gun In The: !louse" 
28 Saturday Nij~ht Live: 
46 l.c:stc:r Sumrall Tc:al·hing 16 SCTV Comc:dy Nc:twork 46 The: Rc:nl"wcd Mind 
" 
ACROSS 1 Teem 5 More 
unusual 10 Blind as­14 Other 15 Omit in 
pronunci­

29 Cardinals and tana· gers 
33 Handbag 34 Percussion 
instruments 35 Informed 36 Chief exec. 
NAZZ COMPETITION Friday, March 5 Bpmto2am 
See your favorite campus performer compete for big money. 
WINNERS NIGHT ATTHENAZZ Saturday, March 6 starting at 8 pm with Noah and Irene Carver 
-professional Folk Musicians 
r--~-~-~~----~------~~-­
Play spoilers 
Notre Dame attacks Dayton
f By CHRIS NEEDLES 
Associate Sports Editor
I 
DAYTON, OHIO -It's been an

I awfully long time since Notre Dame's basketball team has been reduced to playing the role of spoiler. But that should be the case here tomorrow, as the 9-16 Irish, coming off their largest point total of the season (86) against Northern Iowa, take on the Dayton Flyers at the perennially-tough UD Arena. Tip-off is slated for 2 p.m. The Flyers, losers of three of their last five games to drop their record to 18-8, still harbor hopes, however miniscule, for an at-large bid to the NCAA Tournament. An impressive win over the Irish tomorrow cer­tainly wouldn't hurt. But if the call from Mission Valley, Kan., doesn't come on Sunday when the tournament bids come out, Dayton can point to its last three losses -to fellow independents New Orleans, Marquette and Can­sius -as the root ofits downfall. For an independent to get to "the dance," as AI McGuire calls the NCAA's, one usually has to win 20 games in addition to beating other top independents. A win tomorrow for Dayton in its season finale would give the Flyers a respectable 19-8 record; but on the basis of its weak schedule, Dayton 
john Paxson will be returning home with his teammates as the Irish probably will have to settle for its take on the Flyers this Saturday at Dayton, where his brother Jim fourth NIT bid in the last five years. played for Dayton. After the game the Irish will fly away to close out The Flyers are led by 6-1 0 senior the season at Michigan against the Wolverines. See the previews by 
center Mike Kanieski and 6-4 sopho­
Skip Desjardin on the Dayton game and Chris Needles on the Michigan more forward Roosevelt Chapman, game. (Photo byJohn Macor) each of whom averages 18 points 
NDvs. Michigan 
CCHAplayoffs open tonight 
By MICHAEL OLENIK 
I. 
Sports Writer 
For the first time in five years the Athletic and Convocation Center will be the stage fur the opening round of collegiate hockey playoffs, and hopefully a full house will be on hand to witness this clash between the Michigan Wolverines and the hungriest Notre Dame hockey team on record. 
-
For it is this Irish team comprised of nine seniors and an assortment of underclassmen that has finally found the formula to success, and after a disappointing first half of the season has put together two and a half months of powerful hockey -the type of hockey that has left many a 
coach hoping to avoid any further encounters. 
One ufthose coaches isJohn Gior­dano, Michigan's second year coach who saw his Wolverines crushed 6-2 by Notre Dame in the Great Lakes Tournament and later in his own rink by a 9-4 score before getting a 2-2 tie the next night. 
By no means, however, can Notre Dame's success against Michigan be attributed only to the play of the Wolverines. Instead, it has been three great team performances by the Irish that spelled defeat for Gior­dano's crew. Needless to say, it will take at least that type of perfor­mance if the Irish expect to get by a revenge-minded Wolverine club that has full intention of having the last laugh. 
By no means is such an occurence an impossiblity. Last year Michigan chuckled its way to the second round of the WCHA playoffs after upsetting a heavily favored Denver team on the road, and to do the same against the Irish is just the idea being toyed with by the I8-I3-5 Wol· verines. 
"Michigan is a very good cal all-American candiate for leader­defensive team that can bottle up al­ship. most any team," commented Irish The reason for Michigan's 
assistant Terry Fairholm this week. relatively lofty position lies primari­
"We'll need all four lines playing ly with its steady goalteriding. Peter 
heads-up hockey if we expect to Mason and Jon Elliot give Giordano 
have any success. As long as we can one of the better tandems in the 
keep it either at mid-ice or in their league -evidenced by their 3.03 
end, we should be in pretty good and 3.33 goals against averages 
shape." respectively. Both the Notre Dame 
coaches and players know that There to prevent any such 
either could be the key to a Michi­happening will no doubt be Michi­
gan win, and the Irish should test gan's senior captain Steve Rich­
Mason or Elliot early and often. mond. The 6-0, 202-pound 
Knocking on the door for Notre defenseman is nut only the Wol­
Dame will be a variety ofpeople, but verine's intimidator on the blueline, 
most notably Dave Poulin or Kirt but their leading scorer for the 
Bjork. season. Richmond has collected six A question mark exists, however, goals and 29 assists on the year, and with Poulin and second leading both Giordano and the rest of the squad consistently look to thephysi-See PLAYOFFS,page 11 
Michigan Sunday 
and seven rebounds a game. Chap­man, who hails from Brooklyn, N.Y., will be looking to avenge a miserable 1-for·l0 shooting perfor­mance _against the Irish in last season's 70-57 Notre Dame victory at the ACC. Chapman has topped the 20-point plateau in each of the Flyers' last three games. 
"I thmk we have good size and a pretty good shooting team," says IS­year Dayton Coach Don Donoher. "Our team speed is just so-so, but · we're a little quicker than people think." 
The key to the Dayton attack is its marksmanship from the field. As a team, the Flyers shoot 5 I percent from the floor, and six regulars have hit over halfof their shots. 
But cold second-halfshooting has 

led directly to Dayton's last six 
defeats. The nadir this season for the 
Flyers was an embarrassing 32 per· 
cent for the floor after halftime in a 
70-58 loss to lowly Butler. 
In the ND-UD matchup last 

season, the Flyers could only 
manage to hit 33 percent of their 
shots. Kanieski led the Flyers with 
15 points, but on only 7-of-16 shoot­
ing. 
The game will mark a homecom­

ing for Notre Dame All-America 
candidate John Paxson, who grew 
up in nearby Kettering and was a prep star at Archbishop Alter High School. The 6-2 junior guard, who i5 coming off a career-high 27 points against Northern Iowa on Tuesday, will try to duplicate the feats of his brother, Jim, who was a two-time All-American at Dayton in 1978 and 1979. 
"This game will be an extra spe­cial one for 'Pax,"' says Irish Coach Digger Phelps. "We hope that a little bit ofhis emotional feelings will rub offon everybody else." 
Paxson currently is working on a consecutive free throw string that is now up to 23. Ironically, while in high school, Paxson once had a free throw streak of 30 in a row. 
Phelps realizes that his team has not played well away from home this year (posting a l-8 record outside the ACC ), and knows full well of the horrors that await his troops at UD Arena. Dayton is 14-2 at home this season, with both defeats coming by a total ofonly six points. 
"Dayton obviously is having a 

good year," says Phelps, "and their 
arena traditionally has been a tough 
place for us to win (the Irish have 
lost three of their last five games at 
UD Arena). We're going to have our 
hands full." 
Aspoiler usually does. 

Women endseason against Michgan St. 
By MARK HANNUKSELA 
Sports Writer 
It's like going to a party and all your friends are there and you're having a great time, but then your date has that one drink that is the dif­ference between: coherence and oblivion and he/she (depending on your preference) starts acting loud and obnoxious, rude and insulting, and you're thoroughly embarassed so it's time to go home. 
That's what it's like. That's what this whole season has been like for Mary DiStanislao's women's basket­ball team -like a party that started so well, but ended in utter frustra­tion. 
Lucky for ,Mary D and the girls, there will be a final chance to save face, a chance to put a brief but hap­py ending on a season that, at one time, seemed to hold so many promises. 
That chance will come tomorrow afternoon, when the Irish will play host to_ Michigan State in a contest that will begin at I :30 -not at 2 
Phelps andcompany endseason 
By SKIP DESJARDIN 
Sports Editor 
It's easy to give up when you're 
0-13. 
But Bill Frieder wouldn't allow it, and the Michigan Wolverines had no• intentions ofgiving up. Instead, they turned it on in the last half of the season, and have become a force for other teams to reckon with in the Big Ten. 
The Maize and Blue dropped Il­linois a month ago, upset seventh­ranked Iowa less than two weeks ago, and only free throws as time expired stood between them and victory over defending national champs Indiana last weekend. 
Now, the season is coming to a close, for the Wolverines and for the 

Irish. The two will clash Sunday at 
the Pontiac Silverdome. 
"I'm very excited to be playing the Silverdome, especially against Notre Dame," the second-year ·coach says. "It should be a great 
matchup." 
But it won't be as great as once thought. Digger Phelps said before the season that as many as 30,000 peopple could be on hand for the game. It won't even be close. Michi­gan has yet to release figures on how many tickets have been sold for the game, but it's not a very amazing 
number. 
This was supposed to be an event, complete with thousands offans and a national television audience. But neither team has been as successful as had been hoped. NBC won't be there, neither will very many fans, and the game will simply be the season finale for Frider's team, trying to save face, and Phelps's team trying to beat the Wolverines for the first time since he began to coach the Irish. 
It should be an exciting game nonetheless. Michigan is led by two ofthe top players in the conference, one a senior and one a freshman. 
Thad Garner is a product of Northwest Indiana's "region." A standout at Hammond's Bishop Noll High School, Garner went on to become only the third two-time Wolverine captain. Last night in West Lafayette, the 6-7 forward started his 85th consecutive game 
See HOOPS, page 13 

p.m. as listed on some schedules. 
Following last Saturday's five­point loss to DePaul, DiStanislao said "We're playing for pride, now." Indeed, pride is all that's left. Four consecutive losses to four ofthe bet­ter teams on the Irish schedule have all but eliminated any hopes of an NCAA tournament invitation. 
So the only hope now is to close out the season on a winning note, little solace for a team that just two weeks ago had visions of writing a success story such as Notre Dame has never seen in women's athletics-:­
As it turns out, the visions were illusionary in nature, and the reality now setting in is that raw talent isn't always enough. Nebraska and DePaul won close games against the Irish last week because they played well down the stretch, while Notre Dame was plagued by the same men­tal errors that have been the thorn in DiStanislao's side all season long. 
Those errors persist even now, as Tuesday's practice session would in­dicate. Five straight times, Notre Dame's Gold team scored against a Blue squad that was playing a l-2-2 zone defense, something DiStanislao expects to see from the Spartans since DePaul, Nebraska and South Carolina all used it to some success 
See WOMEN, page 12 
;_iDE: 
.1. J.'-''-'·.~ey ,p. l1 1racP,p.14 Fencing,p.14 
Bengal Bouts,p.'13 




