• • .Economic recovery -page 6 

VOL. XVII, NO. 52 the imkpenlkllt ~tuJent new~paper s<.Tving notre Jame anJ saint mary's THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1982 

Soviet leader Brezhnev dies 
MOSCOW (AP) -Leonid I. Brezhnev, head of the Communist Party and presidem ofthe Soviet Un­ion, has died, the Tass news agency reported today. 
The official agency said the 75­year-old leader died a "sudden death" at 8:30a.m. ( 12:30 a.m. EST) yesterday. It said the announcement was made by the Central Committee ofthe party. The Central Committee waited over 27 hours to make the announcement. No funeral arrange­ments have yet been announced. 
Brezhnev had led the Soviet Un­ion for 18 years, taking over from the ousted Nikita Khrushchev in Oc­tober, 1954. 
There was no immediate an­nouncement of a successor. Politburo officials Yuri V. Andropov and Konstantin U. Chernenko are widely regarded as me chiefconten­ders for the post. 
Brezhnev was last seen in public Sunday presiding over the massive Red Square parade marking the 65th anniversary ofthe Bolshevik Revolu­tion. 
"The name of Leonid Ilyich Brezhnev, a true continuer of Lenin's great cause and an ardent champion of peace and Com­munism, will live forever in the hearts of the Soviet people and the entire progressive mankind," Tass said. 
Brezhnev kept a firm grip on power by insisting that colleagues join in decision-making and share the blame for ideas that went wrong. 
He was the most conservative of the Kremlin leaders who preceded him, author of the socalled "Brezhnev doctrine" -a tough policy of brooking no opposition from dissidents as evidenced in the 
invasion of Czechoslovakia in 1968 and the Soviet support of the Polish martial law regime. 
After the fiery V.A. Lenin, ruthless Josef Stalin and vtswnary Khrushchev, Brezhnev looked to be a faceless bureaucrat, stilly reading 
his  speeches  and  laboriously  
consulting  colleagues  on  major  
decisions.  

But he also did more than any of his predecessors to consolidate the Soviet Union as a major world power and bring it to nuclear parity with the United States. 
He chose modest, controlled economic growth for the country in­stead of Khrushchev's wildly am­bitious schemes; preferred coexistence and detente to Lenin's revolutionary fervor; and replaced Stalin's aggressive expansionism with a careful probing for interna­tional gains. 
Events today 

Arms race convocation to begin 
ByPATSAIN dean of the Law School, and an can remain constructive, rather than News Staff address by an expert on disarma­destructive." ment from Harvard University. Hesburgh said, "I hope the Notre At 11:30 a.m., Father Hesburgh Dame community will show support
A convocation on the nuclear 
will celebrate a liturgy at Sacred for the nuclear arms control issue,
arms race, sponsored by the Center 
Heart Church. Hesburgh's homily at and participate in the events of the
for Experiential Learning, will take 
Mass will be based on his meeting day."
place today at several locations on 
last September with Pope Paul II and At 4:15 p.m., Assistant Dean Wil­
campus. The events for the day in­
other international scientists and liam Mclean will lecture in room
clude a Mass by Father Theodore M. 
leaders. Participants in the con­101 of the Law School. Mclean, a
Hesburgh, a lecture by an assistant 
ference presented the Pope with a member ofthe original United States statement that "denounces nuclear delegation to the SALT I talks, will weapons and calls upon the nuclear speak from his experience on arms

Chesterton, C.S. Lewis 
powers never to be the first to use control. In addition, he will discuss them." START -Strategic Arms Reduction "Nuclear weapons are fundamen­Talks -which is Reagan's equiv­
tally different from conventional alent ofSALT II. weapons," the statement says, ad­The day will be highlighted with By SONYA STINSON States because, according to Derrick, he was guilty of ding "They must not be regarded as an address by Professor Everett SeniorStaffReporter acceptable instruments ofwarfare." Mendelsohn entitled "Solutions to 

British Scholarpraises 'Writers 
"that English insolation which looks down upon any­thing foreign, especially American." 
In a recent article, Hesburgh the Nuclear Arms Race," at 7:30p.m.
Gilbert K.. Chesterton and C. S. Lewis -conservative, 

Lewis actually knew very little about America, Der­states, "I think it is important to in the library auditorium.anti-political, bestselling writers who often dealt with 
rick said. He charged that Lewis' ideas about this recognize that conflict is in­Mendelsohn, a professor of his-religious themes -ought to be praised for not "falling 
country were based on Hollywood misinterpretions evitable... We need to creativelyinto the trap" of modifying the faith to make it more See CONVOCATION, page 3
and writings by the likes ofJames Fennimore Cooper. 'manage' conflict, so that conflictacceptable, British scholar Christopher Derrick told an 
Derrick mentioned that another common element in audience in the Galvin Life Science Center auditorium 
the lives ofthe two writers was that both were afflicted last night. 
with psychological oddities. Lewis was at one time a In a theatrically delivered speech peppered with 
Student Union launches
practicing sado-masochist, and Chesterton's writingsquips, Derrick discussed the differences and similarities 
were obsessed with the idea ofviolence, he said. in the ideas of the two figures and commented on their 
On the positive side, Derrick lauded them for having appeal to American readers. 

'Operation Brainstorm ' 
powerfully creative imaginations and equally powerful
"Both Chesterton and Lewis invite their readers to 

intellects. embark upon the activity of thinking, and more By MICHOLE MADDEN Brainstorm" coordinators Anne Americans than English are ready to accept that invita­News Staff Chapski and Andy Tucker. tion," Derrick said. 
All ideas will be submitted to a 
Derrick described Chesterton as a firmly dogmatic The Student Union hopes sugges­panel of freshmen who will decide Christian, while he dubbed Lewis as strongly Gnostic. tions come raining down this week on the feasibility of each idea and The two writers never met, because "Chesterton didn't during "Operation Brainstorm ," a turn them over to the final judges. 
move very much in academic circles, and Lewis didn't project that will offer the Notre Ideas will be judged on originality, move very much in any circles at all," Derrick quipped Dame community a chance to feasibility and practicality.
Lewis did read many of Chesterton's writings, express its ideas for campus improv­Prizes will be awarded for thehowever, and they had a major influence in Lewis' con­ments. 
three best ideas -SSO first place,version to Christianity, Derrick continued. The purpose of "Operation S25 second place and $10 for thirdBoth writers attached a high value to tradition and Brainstorm" is to develop a response place.
continuity, believing that almost any change was to campus concerns and to develop Tucker believes that the program"barbarizing," the scholar stated. He spoke of the better communication between the will give freshmen an opportunity toqualities he most admired in each of the writers: NO community and the Student Un­get involved in campus activities.
"Lewis' best subject, in my view, is the nature and ion. psychology of moral choice. What I value most in Ches­Ideas will be divided into three The project's main goal is to terton is his sense ofthe real value ofall human beings," areas: social, service, and policy, and provide studems with the chance to 
turn complaints into action. The
he said. all practical ideas are welcome. On the subject of Chesterton and Lewis' popularity Judging will start Dec. t and will project is sponsored by the Student 
among Americans, Derrick commented that their ap­be done by a panel of three faculty Union's Ombudsman office. peal was curious, since they were anti-political and members and four students. The Entry forms for ideas will be "cool to various things which Americans hold dear." panel includes Student Affairs Direc­available Thursday in the dorms, The 
For example. Chesterton opposed prohibition be­tor James McDonnell, Farley Observer, and on posters located cause he felt it discriminated against the poor and he Rectress Sister Jean Lenz, University throughout the campus. had little sympathy for "the American Dream," Derrick President Assistant Father William Ballot boxes will be open Nov. 12 
stated. Beauchamp. Student Body President through Nov. 24 in the dining halls Lewis shunned his many invitations to the United Bob Yonchak, and "Operation and in LaFortune Student Center. 

• 
~ 
I 
I t 


NewsBrieb 
By The Observer and The AssociatedPress 
America's space shuttle stood poised on its launch pad in Cape Canaveral, Fla., ready for today's "loss leader" debut as a commercia! cargo carrier. The flight will be a multi­million dollar bargain for two firms whose communication satellites will be hauled to orbit. Four astronauts finished up their training yesterday and the landing-site weather was the only uncertainty to a liftoff at 7:19 am. EST on Columbia's five-day return to space. "The machine is in great shape," an official said. Columbia's flight is its first as an operating space truck after four test missions. Satellite Business Systems of McLean, Va, and Telesat Canada North Ltd., are paying 
NASA $17 million for launch services, a price negotiated years ago. The total cost ofthe flight is estimated at S250 million. While launch­day weather seemed no problem at Cape Canaveral, it was a worry at Edwards Air Force Base in California, the Mojave Desert landing site that is the prime emergency runway at the start of the launch. If landing conditions are not adequate for a launch-day emergency, a one-day delay could be called. -AP 
The fence came downyesterday and hundreds of Americans went to the black walls of the new Vietnam Veterans Memoria! to search for a name, to reflect on that war, to shed a private tear. The stark walls name the 57,939 Americans who did not return from Vietnam. On Saturday, culminating a four-day national salute to the 2.7 million who served in Vietnam, the monument will be dedicated. That ceremony will occur after a veterans' parade down Washington, D.C.'s Constitution Avenue -a welcome home from a war whose unpopularity rubbed offon and embittered those who fought it. The panels ofthe monument form walls 250 feet long which, at the center, descend 10 feet into the sloping ground. The names are engraved in letters half an inch high. Meanwhile, in a small chapel ofthe huge Washington Cathedral, volunteers began reading the names of the missing and dead, one every two seconds, In al­phabetical order. That vigil, 21 hours a day, will continue through Friday midnight. -AP 
Governmentwitnessessay three ofthe 24 cancer cases being considered in a trial in Salt Lake City on the health effects ofatomic test fallout were not radiation-related. The three victims of pancreatic, breast and thyroid cancer did not develop their illnesses because ofexposure to fallout from testing in Nevada in the 1950s and early 1960s, three doctors said Tuesday. "I do not believe that Mr. (Glen) Hunt's cancer was caused by radioactive fallout," said Dr. Phillip Schein, a professor ofmedicine and oncology at Georgetown University. Hunt and the two other cancer victims are among two dozen representing 1,192 plaintiffs in the suit claiming that fallout from tests caused cancer and other health problems in people downwind. Plaintiffs' attorneys contend the radiation doses received by residents downwind from the atmospheric tests far exceeded the levels claimed by the government's figures. U.S. dis· trict Judge Bruce Jenkins is hearing the tria!, and plaintiffs' lawyers hope a favorable ruling on the representative cases will enable other plaintiffs to get compensation out ofcourt. -AP 
With momentumapparently building for new federal jobs programs, Democrats and Republicans staked out different positions yesterday on what shape they should take, what to call them and how to pay for them. Democratic congressional leaders called for defense spending cuts and higher taxes on the well-to-do, while a Cabinet official lobbied President Reagan for doubling the federal gasoline tax. Transportation Secretary Drew Lewis insisted that the proposal he pushed during a 45-minute meeting at the White House was aimed at repairing the nation's highways and bridges rather than creating jobs. But Transportation Department documents say the program would generate 320,000 jobs and ad­ministration sources who asked not to be identified acknowledged the proposal's appeal is growing because of bipartisan interest for a nationwide program to cut the 10.4 percent unemployment rate. 
Democrat Adlai E. Stevensonsaid yesterday 

he would Eeek a recount of the voting in the Illinois governor's race after a canvass ofChicago precincts left him trailing Republican Gov. James R Thompson by more than 5,600 votes statewide. "The outcome of the election is uncertain," Stevenson said. "It appears that Gov. Thompson and Rep. (George) Ryan (the GOP lieutenant governor candidate) will be certified the apparent winners with a plurality of about 15· I OOths of I percent of the vote. The public interest requires confirmation ofthe winners ... the only way to deal with inevitable error in the vote counting process is to recount," Stevenson said in a news release issued before an afternoon news conference. State officials have estimated a recount and court chal­lenge of the results of the election could cost up to n million. Results ofthe Chicago canvass showed Stevenson picking up a net of more than 4,000 votes on Thompson in the city since unofficial 
results were tabulated on Friday. -AP 
A new Gallup poll shows that 50 percent of U.S. Roman Catholic men support the ordination ofwomen to the priest· hood, compared to 39 percent ofCatholic women supporting such a proposal. A catholic social justice group, the Quixote Center, which has commissioned a series ofGallup polls on the issue, says the latest results show a steady, significant increase in Catholic support for women's ordination. The overall figure is now 44 percent, compared to only 29 percent in 1974, the center says. It says strong opposition has dropped steadily, from 47 percent in 1974 to 34 per· cent now. -AP 
Breezy today and mlldwith a 7o percent chance for showers and a possible thundershower. High in low and mid Os. Breezy tonight and mild with a 60 percent chance for thunder· showers. Low in low and mid 50s. Cloudy Friday and turning much cooler with a good chance for showers. High in the 50s dropping to the 40s by afternoon. -AP 
. .. .
-~ 

Thursday, November 11, 1982-page 2 
NFL strike: the untold story 
The strike by the players of the National Football League is the greatest thing to happen to the United States since lhe repeal ofprohibition 50 years ago. 
The only problem is that nobody has realized this fact. Until now, that is. 
After obtaining a confidential memo from a high White House official (no pun intended), I can now reveal with some certainty that the walkout is the result of a top-secret conspiracy between the White House and the NFL owners and players in an effort to make America great again. And it appears to be working. 
No one is quite sure who the mastermind is behind this grand scheme, now being dubbed Garveygate by the press, but White House observers speculate that it may be President Reagan himself and much evidence has surfaced recently to support this theory. By examin­ing all of the positive phenomenon which have transpired in the past two months, the current duration ofthe strike, the conspiracy will become evident to the many skeptics who think that the players struck for reasons ofgreed and avarice. 
Avery serious problem currently facing the U.S. con­cerns the rate ofpopulation growth. For the past several years the growth rate has suffered a dramatic decrease and scientists predict that by the year 2050, the popula­tion rate of the U.S. actually will be less than zero population growth. Realiz­ing that a strong and growing populous is neces­sary ifthe U.S. is to maintain its status as a world leader, the president devised the football player's strike as a possible remedy to the situa­tion. For seven straight Sun­days now husbands across the country have been denied their favorite weekend pastime; watching football on TV. With the strike in full swing the net· works still have failed to satisfy the lusty appetites of these hardcore pigskin fans. Televising such events as the Pocket Billiards Championship of Kalamazoo has failed to attract the same audience share as the gridiron battles. 
Because ofthis free time sociologists report that hus­bands are rediscovering that the bedroom can be used for purposes other than sleeping. A baby-boom is ex­pected eight to nine months from now as a result ofthe NFI strike. That Reagan. What a genius. 
In addition to this increase in physical activity, more armchair quarterbacks are now getting off their pos­teriors and performing such foreign activities as run· ning, swimming and tennis and they're getting their entire families involved too. With millions ofAmericans feeling physically and mentally refreshed, productivity in the U.S. has increased over the pa~t two months along with the amount of exported goods and disposable income. Consumers are buying more with their new found wealth, manufacturers are producing more as a result and generally the economy is headed for a com· 

The Observer 
Design Editor................... /Jetrdre Murphy Design Assistatll ................. Ken Cerabona Layout Sltlff........ .. Maureen Burke 1)•pesetters ....................... Tom MacLennan 
News Editor... . .. Mark Worscheh Copy Editor..... ......Jeff HorrinRton Nn Day Editor ...... ................ Dave Grote 
SMC Day Editor ........................ Tari Brown Editorials Layout....................... Tim Neely B& T I.aynut .. ..... ... . ................ Alex Szivla~ Sports Copy Editor.............. ...... The Buck' 
County Connection l)pist .................................... Monica 0ogle Ad Design ............................. Marilyn Larkin Photographer ............................ Tom White Guest Appearances........................... Reggie 
Dzave Dziedzic 
And il"s going to be a da_y, Ami it really doem"t help to say 
No tv the morning Am/ it's going to be a day. And there's really nothing left to say 
But, hello morning. 
The Observer (USPS 598 9201 1s published Monday through Fnda y and on home football Saturdays except durmg exam and vacat1on penods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Marys Col· 
lege Subscnptlons may be purchased tor $25 per year tS 15 per semester) by wnling The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame Indiana 46556 
The Observer IS a member ot The Associated Press All reproduct1on nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame Indiana 46556 


plete recovery. And all because ofthe NFL strike. Many other problems have been solved as a result of 
the strike. For example, college deans report that stu­dents are studying more and consequently performing better academically now that they no longer blow-off Sunday afternoons and Monday nights to watch foot­ball. 
Atip o' the hat to the genius who dreamed up such a bizarre though certainly effective solution to these serious albeit disparate problems. But let's not forget to give credit to the NFL owners and players who have performed so wonderfully throughout this two month long play, starring Ed Garvey, Jack Donlan and Sam Kagel. Garvey and the Player's Association, through their marvelous acting, have been convincing in their 
roles as immature spoiled brats. Like little boys inces­santly arguing over an inter­ference call in a pick-up game, the players have stub­bornly stood their ground in demanding more money, even though their average salary is better than 590,000 a year. 
And those witty owners have been equally adept at pulling the wool over America's eyes. This week, as a settlement of the dispute appeared imminent, the NFL Management Coun­cil saved the day by filing an unfair labor practice charge against the Player's Assoc., a move which will certainly 
delay constructive talks for at least another week. A mere stroke ofgenius. 
Perhaps a collective Congressional Medal of Honor should be be awarded to the players and management of the NFL for sacrificing their season not to mention millions ofdollars, all for the benefit ofAmerica For 51 days they have kept up this charade, entertaining Americans with their childish and immature behavior while never once claiming the honor due them for help­ing solve so many domestic problems. 
The actors have presented a show better than any star-studded Hollywood performance; playing the roles of selfish, unfeeling, egocentric thugs while in reality they are all true Americans fighting for a better and stronger United States. It's enough to bring a tear to one's eye. Keep up the good work, fellas. 
Now, if we could just get the baseball players to strike again, perhaps world peace could be achieved... 

The Obser~er Thursday, November 11, 1982-page 3 
Registrationfor checkmarks 

Seniors can obtain course forms 
ByAMY STEPHAN may have caused the errors which dents are encouraged to check the News Staff appeared on some students' information on their forms and to scheduling forms. make any necessary changes. Forms 
Seniors can begin to obtain check­Sullivan asserted that this "has not which do contain errors should still mark course forms today, according been a cause of concern." He said be used for registration. to Richard Sullivan, college registar. that the infof.mation in the system is According to Sullivan, the regis­
Juniors will have this opportunity correct, but the new forms pull the tar's office is not responsible for beginning tomorrow. information out ofthe system in new notifying students of requirements 
Checkmarked courses are those ways, resulting in some errors. they have yet to fill in order to in which enrollment is limited by Sullivan stated that most students' graduate. Sullivan said that this is the individual departments. Stu­papers are free of errors, but stu· handled by the individual colleges. 
dents must obtain a form from the sponsoring department in order to enroll these courses. 
This marks the start ofthe second stage of the registration process for 
• • • Convocation 
upperclassmen. According to Sul­livan, seniors and juniors already continuedfrom page 1 cotroversial arms control topics. should have received their schedul-Father Don McNeil, director of ing papers and should have met with tory of science at Harvard Univer-the Center for Experiential Learn­their advisors to discuss course sity, led a delegation of persons ing, said that "one of the key things selections. Sullivan said that his interested in disarmament and arms that we are doing is having an educa­office will be sending scheduling control to the Soviet Union in 1979. tiona! day with other universities, forms to sophomores tommorrow. While Mendelsohn was in the US-which shows a st:nse ofsolidarity." Sullivan said that the third stage of SR, the delegation spoke to several McNeil said that Notre Dame the registration process should be people involved with the fields of invited Professor Mendelsohn be· completed by next Thursday, the nuclear weapons and energy, in ad-cause he is a Christian with a target date for upperclassmen to dition to several members of the scholarly backround and Christian tum in their completed schedule government. convictions on nuclear arms, and he forms at Stepan Center. During late November, Mendel-is involved in talking about peace Students who have not already sohn went to England, Austria, and around the world. done so can obtain course lists from Germany to discuss the deployment Reg Weissert, who is the coor­the registar's office or from the of nuclear weapons in NATO dinator of the event, said "I believe dean's office ofeach college. countries. He also has led many dis-that the Notre Dame community Students are using a new form for cussions with the U.S. Senate and the will take the nuclear issue seriously, registration this year. According to State Department concerning and participate in the events of the Sullivan, the use of these new forms Eurostrategic weapons, and other day." 
~...........................................................................................................................lt......................
1 

i YOURBSNISWORIHAN I



i OFFICER'S COMMISSION ~ 
i IN THEARMY. , i 
j! Your BSN means you're a professional. In the Army, it also j!! means you're an officer. You start as a full-fledged member of our Ii medical team. Write: Army Nurse Opportunities, ! ~ P.O. Box 7713, Butbank, CA 91510. ; 
~ ARMYNURSECORPS. ~
I lEA' LYOU CAN BE. ! 
l.....................,,.............................................................................................~ 

§~
NOTRE DAME vs. PENN STATE 
HOME GAME 

SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1982 
~ Special Attractions *******************... 
....SPECIAL HOURS. • 11 :30 am to 11 :30 Pn:t . 
· Featuring our regular dinner menu mcludmg all your Bar-B-Que favorites. Famous low prices too! 
SPECIAL CARRY OUT SERVICE· By popular demand: our Hickory smoked ribs and chicken offered 'to go'. Call ahead for details and prompt service. 
SPECIAL SANDWICH MENU. 11:30 to 4:00pm 
Not available any other time, but for this event. Extra generous B-B..Q Beef, french dip, Reuben -each onlyS4.25or Chicken Teriyaki at$4.95. 
Special Late Night* EARTHSHAKERS $2.00 

SPECIAL 
3dri'lks ill O'le
* BUCKETS OF BOOZE $4.00 
SPECIAL 6ozofbooze 
* PITCHERS OF BREW 
SPECIAL ~3.75 
*LITRES OF MARGARIT AS SPECIAL $4.95 
11 pm -2:00am in the lounge only 
Specializingin Prime B.ib, Seafood, Steaks and servin~ your favorite cocktails. 

ep TAKING RBSBBVATIOXS i02 s.. Walnut BOW 
South 11M Take lddy to Sample, tum right
' 
232-2494 on Walnut. Banquet rooms available with option to create your own menu. Serving dinner at Spm Mon.-Sat. 

Student Union, Educational Media, and The Snite Museum present: 
Robert Hughs 
-ArtEditor of Time Magazine -Author-The Shock ofthe New u Art, Politics, Propaganda" 

Tuesday, November 16 7:30pm Annenberg Auditorium Snite Museum 

• ~ ltlJOUr""''I-01'elM!
II I 
..~OM· UDL,
-~~L-.~:te ,· 
..... 1 _I 1· ~ Ito a// ~~ \&~"'! l 
'N~\ ~rnllfi~ _ 

~-\.. '-\ \ d·~·14f7'~~
-I 
1 tO I \ P ·-· -~ 
'hold iflg \ \ter:.\c -­
'\· .··--·~ ·-'--·-·---· I -­
---I . I 

'R:oad \!_~a:.z•L_· 
~H-oP.
... ~­
oi', 

. I I -\
For \}'(>ur_ \ .. 
-'I 
I -\b1 8 ~!!~ C--·-• 
Noappointment I Open 7 days daily 9-8 Sat. 9-6 Sun 11 -5 
Grape Road Plaza Grape and Day Roads 


@REDI<EN 
277-7946 
Hair must be shampooed day of cut 






r 
The Observer 
ThisDeskCanReachMach2. 
Some desk jobs are making authority. more exciting than In the air, and on the others. ground, you have 
As a N_avy pilot management responsi­or flight officer, your bility from the begin­desk can be a sophis­ning. And your ticated combination responsibility grows
. .
of supersonic jet air­as you gam expenence. 
craft and advanced electronic equipment. But you can handle it. Because Navy flight training gives you the navigation, aerodynamics and other technical know-how you need. 
In return, Navy aviation demands something of you as an officer: Leadership. 
Your path to leadership starts with officer training that's among the most demanding in the military. It's intensive leadership and professional schooling combined with rigorous Navy flight training. And it's all geared to prepare 
you and other college graduates for the unique challenge of Navy aviation. The program is t~ug~1 hut rewarding. 
One important reward for Navy officers is decision-
GetResponsibilityFast. 
Francesco's Fi!miglia 277-6155 Restaurant 277-6156 
featuring 
FOUR SEASONS PIZZA 
The Original Southern Recipe 
Lasagna, Home-;;-~de Spaghetti, All V . 1. f Sa d · h Chicken Cacciatori, Veal Parmigiana ane tes 0 n WIC es 
(Francesco was chejfor Holy Cross Fathersjor 21 yrs.) 
1636 N. Ironwood 
1...------:"WE DELIVER"
~===-.Proprietor: Francesco Ca~t~a:n;za:n~-t~i;;~;;;;• 
• f·:::::::::::::::>::=:::::::::::::::::::::·::::::;:<:::>>.:::::::>>>>.;.:.:·:·>>>>:·:':-;.<;.:.<:::::::::::::::=::::::;:::;:;:::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::ft! Please OonateyouR :i 
I PENN STATE STUDENT TICKETS l 
t roR i. ~ BKj BROth€WBtq Stst€RS or nO/SmC i.
. .. 
• 
j Collection in dining halls tuesday, i ; wednesday, thursday nov 9, 10, 11 J. 
: f(Cia) 'f) s:oo-s:oo pm j \Ei achi~ enJOY an n.O. c,ame"
•
• 
r ~v7o;;O;;U~T7 ----W-;61 
INFORMATION CENTER 
I
I P.O. Box 5000, Clifton, N,T 07015 
j 0 Please send me more information about becom-I ing a member of the Naval Aviation Tham. (0Al J 
I Name-,--,-,------,.,-------,-,.,...,----.--:-::--­
First lPlease Print) Last 
1 Address Apt. 11----1 J City State Zip II Age__tCollege/University_____ 
I
:j:Year in College tGPA_____ 
I .II.Major/Minor·-----------I Phone Number 
I 
I 
·I 1Area Code) Best Time to Call This is for general recruitment information. You do not have to 
I 
furnish any of the information requested. Of course. the more we know, the more we can help to determine the kinds of Navy posi­tions for which you qualify. 
J
l ----------­
> ~,Navy Officers 

No company can give you this kind of leadership responsibility this fast. And nothing beats the sheer excitement of Navy flying. 
The salary is exciting, too. Right away, you'll earn about $18,000 a year. That's better than the average corpora­tion will pay you just outofcollege. And with regular Navy promotions and other pay increases, your annual salary will soar to $30,400 after four years. That's on top of a full package of benefits and privileges. 
Before you settle down to an earth­
bound desk job, reach for the sky. Reach for the coupon. Find out what it takes to be part of the Naval Aviation Team. You could have a desk that flies at twice the speed of sound. 
,.
+ leaders. Workers staged sporadic minor protests and stoppages in about 20 towns and cities, and there were stu­dent protests in four cities, accord­ing to reports from Western correspondents, the official news agency PAP and government sources. Polish television said 270 people were detained after street clashes in Warsaw, and Western reporters said at least ·six people were detained in Wroclaw. A shipyard worker in Gdansk ad· mitred there was "such panic and fear that people worked" despite calls for sit-down strikes to protest the outlawing of Solidarity. The offi·· cia! PAP news agency acknowledged sporadic attempts to slow down fac· tories, but said "honest, efficient work" prevailed. "This positive balance of events allows us to hope ... that martial law can be lifted before the end of this year ifpolitical, economic and social conditions are still favorable," government spokesmanjerzy Urban told a news conference. 
In Washington, President Reagan accused the Polish government of "declaring war on its own people;' adding, "one can imprison prote~­ters and disperse demonstrators with tear gas or water cannons, but the specter remains: never again will the self-appointed representatives of the workers be able to pretend that they represent anyone but them­selves. 
========:= 
Theo.Dept. announces changes 
The Theology Department has made the following changes concerning theology courses: 
The theology requirement is ful­filled asfollows: 
1. Introduction to Theology (Theology 100 or Theology 200) THIS IS A PREREQUISITE TO ALL OTHER COURSES. 
2. Acourse numbered 200-299. 
Exceptionally a 300-or 400-­level course may fulfill the second theology requirement. 
Courses in the 300-level often have special prerequisites and the Department of Theology should be consulted before registering for these courses. 
The 400-level courses are for Theology Majors and any student looking for more in-depth study in some specific area. 
In addition, a Notre Dame student who has already taken a first course may not take 100 or 200 level courses at St. Mary's to fulfill the second course requirement. 
***************** :_ NEED A . "'i ! BAND? f#: 
: for parties, weddings, etc. ~ 
.. coli... * ~ BANDS * 
i; i
UNLIMITED
: .....,...., ~ 
: 233-5727 : 
*****************' 
Martial Law 
stifles 
Polish strike 
WARSAW, Poland (AP) Thousands of Poles shouting "Solidarity Lives!" and "Down with the Junta!" battled riot police in Warsaw, Wroclaw and Nowa T Huta yesterday. But tough measures by the martial law regime apparently stymied nationwide work stoppages called by the union's underground 


The Observer Thursday, November 11, 1982-page 5 
Collier speech 
Labor promotes democracy 
By BOBJOHNSON in the Notre Dame Law School yes­Collier. He did not praise this or .VewsStaff terday. Latin American countries categorically reject it, but only gave during the 1960's and 1970's, in par­his observations on the Latin 
Labor relations are a primary fac· ticular, were cited by Collier as American countries. tor in determining the degree of a major examples ofthis factor. Collier feels that "in periods of country's democratization, said Focusing on the role ofstructures nationalism tht~re is a sense that Professor David Collier in a lecture of labor mediation in the construc­regaining control of the economy is 
tion of democratic regimes, Collier important." Thus, in the Latin feels that the "general link of or­American countries which have ex­ganized unions, the state, and the perienced political instability, the party system" come together to help organized labor movements are 
form the democracy in a process he overwhelmingly important as sym­termed "labor intermediation." bols ofnationalism. Control and support mobilization Labor becomes a particular criti­
Beaux tickets 
found, new 
ofunions tend to be two ofthe more cal factor in nationalism, and Collier important variables concerning the said that trade unions may be used to relationship between the state and legitimize regimes. He stated that in the unions. Collier, chair of the Cen­these strong efforts to create viable ter for Latin American Studies at the labor movements there must be "an 
clues begun 
The Beaux Arts Ball tickets and a University of California at Berkeley, optimal balance between labor andcase ofcheap beer have been found, 
feels that the levels of inducement labor control"but another one has been hidden. 
and constraint are key factors in the Collier said that in order for theThe clues still apply. It would have process ofdemocratization. democratization period to result in a been "Bad Taste" not to hide one at In these democratic regimes stable internal structure this optimalall, but that would not have been "trade unions become co-opted ex­balance between labor and labornice. Clues to their location will ap­tensions of the state," according to control must be reached. 
pear in The Observer each day this week. The affair will be held tomorrow night, from 9 to 2, in the Architecture Building. The costume theme is "Bad Taste." When con­
Glasses Broken? 

structing a costume, remember: "It is wretched taste to be gratified with 
SAME DAY SERVICE 

mediocrity when the excellent lies before us. (D'Israeli )" Tickets are 
*Slass tr P11stic Leases 

S4 and will be sold tonight and 
*Sitgle Yisiot' or Mlltifocal

tomorrow in the dining halls and at the door. Two bands, The Kinetics 
*tMr 600 friMS

(formerly The Verbs) and The Rooms, will play until kickoff on 
University Center, 6502 Grape Road, Mishawakll, Indiana 

Saturday. 
Phone 21~2'n-2400-Open Mon.-Fri. ~9; Sat. ~5 

This case ofbeer will be sought We hope no battles willbefought With backs turned ofjoseph and 
Mary Quickly away you must carry For it's Bad Taste between them 
to be caught 

EVEN STRAICiHT /iS CAN'T HELP IF YOU FLUNK TUITION. 
1l1Jay. the toughe~t thing about goinl' n' college is finding the monev to pav tt)[ tt. But Armv ROTC can help-two 
wav~' 
Ftr;r, vou can arrh-t~1r an Arm\· ROTC ~cholarshtp. It cuwr~ tultlun. hoob. and supplies, and rays you up tll ~ 1.000 ea::h ~chou! vear it's In dt'ect. 
But even if Yl1L 'reI tnt a scht,larship recipient,.--. ~ ROTC can still heir ~ · with financial assis­tance-up to$1 .000 a year for your last two years in the pro~'Tam. 
Ftlr more information. contact your Professor d Militarv S( 
ARMY ROTC. 
BEAUYOU CAN BE. 
CALL TODAY!!! CAPTAIN GREGORY A. CAN NAT A 239·6264or 239·6265 
'-.·· .. -:.z.:r~· ...·. 


Dr.Edward Murphy (left) and Father Herman Reith speak last night in lectures sponsored by the Thomas More Society. Reith, speaking on "The Church: W~ Roman Catholic," broke down the question by explaining the meanings of the words "church," "Roman" and "Catholic." Following the Reith lecture, Murphy addressed the problems related to "Law and Evolution" as part of the Contemporary Issues lecture series. Both lectures were in 115 O'Shaughnessy Hall. (Photos by Tom White) 


... 
. .· 

-~--·~--~--------~-------­
Business & TechnologyThursday,November11, 1982-page 6 
l ~ 
l I 
Economic Update 
The Sunshine Mine, the nation's largest silver · producer, will reopen in December after a six-month layoff, brought back by the recent surge in silver prices. Sunshine Mining Co. an­nounced Tuesday that it would begin calling workers back to the mine, which closedJune 12 and forced 450 employees out ofwork. Everybody knew it would reopen soon," said Laverne Melton, an administrator for the United Steelworkers of America. "Sunshine's operating costs are well below S9 an ounce and silver has been above $10 an ounce for some time." The mine, which produced more than 4 million ounces ofsilver in 1981, will reopen in Decem­ber with full production expected by February, said company vice president H.B. Ireland ofDallas. -AP 
. all Street Update 
An afternoon selloffin blue chips pushed stock prices lower Wednesday after the market flirted with all-time highs early in the session. Trading was heavy throughout the volatile day on Wall Street. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials, up more than I 0 points in early trading, finished with a loss of 15.73 at 1,044.52. The Dow's record closing high of1,065.49 was established a week earlier. Volume on the New York Stock Exchange totaled 
113.24 million shares, up from 111.22 million Tuesday. Analysts said the Dow Jones industrials' 22.81-point upsurge on Tuesday had helped generate ate fre t sh buying at the outset. But prices failed to hold above last week's record levels, and by midaftemoon sellers had gained the upper hand Brokers said uncertainty about the prospective timing ofthe Federal Reserve's next credit policy moves contributed to the volatile atmosphere in the market. -AP 
s.?E'~lJIPHOTOGKAPHICA ~~~f 
Century Center -So. Bend, Ind. 
BUY -SELL -SWAP IMAGES, BOOKS, PHOTO EQUIPMENT CAMERAS· MODERN, CLASSIC & ANTIQUE. BRING IN YOUR OLD CAMERAS & PHOTO EQUIPMENT FOR FREE APPRAISALS! 
Sun, Nov. 14, 1982 I 0-5 EST ADMISSION $3-SAVE-A-BUCK! $2 WITH THIS ADI 
Paul Goddard 616 683 8859 Roger Smith 219 259 2968 0 G&S PRODUCTIONS R#5 224 ULLERY RO NILES. Ml49120 
Dine among the antiques and enjoy our view of the new downtown! 
Reservations Appreciated 234-9000 121 South Niles South Bend 

Indicators signal 

Economic recovery begins 
ByALEX SZII.V AS 
B&TEditor 
The unemployment rate is at a near·record high. That is certainly bad news for a lot ofAmericans. But the total outlook seems to be improving, based on lower inflation, reduced prime rates, and the recent surge by the stock market. What do these seemingly mixed signals dis­close about the economic trend to follow? 
Dr. Herbert E. Sim of the Finance and Business Economics depart­ment explains that these signals indi· cate the economic recovery has actually begun, and that a full-scale upswing can be expected by the second halfof 1983. 
The prime rate has fallen from more than 20 percent to below 12 percent in the last year. But the rate is still quite high by historical stan­dards. Sim points out that even more importantly, the real interest rate (the interest rate charged less the current inflation rate) is very high. He sees the rates continuing to decline until the economy responds, led by housing and consumption ex­penditures. 
Interest rates on consumer loans 
have not been lowered as much as 
the prime. Sim explains that this is 
because of the very nature of the 
loans involved. The prime rate is the 
interest rate charged by the banks to 
their best customers -usually large 
businesses. Consumer loans are ris· 
kier investments for the lending in­
stitution. Consumer loans also 
require greater processing costs due 
to the smaller principal amounts 
which are involved. Much of the in­
terest charge for these loans is then 
actually a service fee. Accordingly, 
interest rates on these loans do not 
rise and fall proportionately to the 
prime. 
INTEREST RATES (%) 

Investors have turned bullish on the stock market in the last 13 weeks. During that period, the Dow Jones Industrial Average has risen 260 points. Sim explains that these gains were the result ofthe liquidity which investors had built up. Inves­tors have favored high-yielding, short-term investments for the last few years. The recent lowering ofin­terest rates, and the consequent decline in short-term instrument yields, have caused investors to seek alternative investments for their funds. The result has been a dramatic rise in both the stock and bond markets. Once this process was begun, the "herd" instinct ofin­vestors accented the results. 
The stock market is known as a very reliable leading indicator. "It is 90 percent accurate in forecasting an upturn in the economy,"said Sim. He adds that the rising stock market is good news also because stockhol­ders now feel wealthier and therefore will be inclined to spend more, thereby stimulating economic recovery. 

has been most dramatic. Hovering 
around 13.5 percent just two years 
ago, it has been reduced to 5 percent 
today. Sim relates that part of this 
reduction is naturally a trade-off for 
higher unemployment. 
But several other factors have cer· 
tainly contributed to lower inflation 
rates. The moderation of energy 
prices is one. "Suppliers were 
induced to supply more by the high 
prices which energy had been 
commanding," said Sim, "but demand has been lowered due to the recession enabling supply to catch up with demand." 
Corby's 
Good Luck Coach Faust, Staff, and the SUPER 1982 Fighting Irish 
GO IRISH, 


"Inflation has also been curbed by a slowing of wage rate increases," says Sim. "This is a result of high un­employment and lower inflation it­self." 
Sim cites the moderation of food 
prices resulting from high farm 
production as another factor con­
tributing to lower inflation. 
INFLATION RATES (%) 
The rate of unemployment has just reached its highest point since the Great Depression -I0.4 per­cent. Sim foresees very little reduc­tion in this rate in the near future ­perhaps even a slight increase before peaking. However, he relates that the unemployment rate is a lag­ging indicator. "The stock market, on the average, indicates an upturn in the economy by six months in ad­vance," said Sim. "Since unemploy­ment lags behind, a noticeable improvement is not expected before the second halfof 1983." 
Sim asserts that economic hardships have forced businesses to improve their efficiency by cutting costs. This has caused output to go down, but not by as much as employment. The result has been an upturn in productivity -a good in­dication that the economy is moving out ofthe recession. 
UNEMPLOYMENT RATES(%) 

lfR€PO~t€~~ 
ffi€€tJnq tontqht at 6:30 1n th€ lal=omun€ ltttl€th€at€R. 
an news RepoRteRs 
~ustatt€nb:J 
~-----~----~------~~~---------------------------~--­
Editorials 
Thursday, November 11, 1982-page 7 
12:15 Mass-the Father Fitzgerald liturgy 
Dear Father Fitzgerald, I have heard your homily likened to the everybody claps at the end." impression, on at least one in the congrega­"Tonight Show" monologue. This playful Applause certainly has its place in a Church, tion, of an entertainer bidding his audience 
I am a conservative Catholic graduate stu­comparison may be tempting in view of the but, when it occurs week after week, regard­farewell: "We thank you all for coming. It has dent, who would like to offer to you some per­number of jokes a priest tells, but of course less ofthe celebrant, does it mean that people been our pleasure to celebrate this Eucharist haps jarring yet positive thoughts regarding abruptly ends at the sincerity ofhis conviction have come to expect some kind ofregular per­with you." the celebration of your Mass. My premise is to convey wisdom; however, Father, I wonder formance? As the usual weekly reaction ensued, I this: your presentation of the Mass could be if a priest most effectively commnicates great How unjust would it be to deny the great couldn't help but wonder if the energy ex­
wisdoms by surrounding them with light­good you accomplish each Sunday, Father. pended in our hands would be as heartily hearted quips and funny stories. What a powerful personality you posess. What reflected in our minds, in subsequent prayer­
David M. Schorp 
Is the conveyance offaith always necessari­energy do you elicit from your congregation. ful meditation on how better to live our day­ly pleasant? Aren't some Christian principles Is this energy being most effectively used? to-day lives in humble Christian service. What _
Chautauqua in Faith 
""'rv difficult tn "incrrrlv :~ccrpt -isn't there The conclusion oflastSunday's Mass left the was the secret ofFather Bill Toohey's liturgy? 
a struggle and a sufferring with new ideas as more effective in the communication of the we truly learn? Is there not needed, then, ap­Church's wisdoms and your truly inspired peal to reason besides emotional appeal, to ideas ifyou let the text ofthe Mass speak more envoke in the congregation sincere medita­
WNTNtliJCR 
for itself. tion on challenging questions of faith? Hasn't Psychologist Abraham Maslow has outlined the powerful simplicity of the Mass evolved 
lff OlD ffi()'fl) 
a hierarchy ofeight basic human needs; two of for this very purpose? these distinct needs are religion and aesthetic The beauty ofthe Mass speaks for itself, and 
GET~ IT! 
entertainme9J. The conveyance ofthe Mass to doesn't require any sort of"dressing up." On 
I
a congregation is described by a phrase which he other hand, the Church must continue to combines these two concepts, "Sacred An." evolve with a changing society. Your liberal But must not a strong and refined distinction Mass, Father, actively calls this process to at­be made ·between them? Father, is it possible tention. What was it about the 12:15 Mass, a that the overemphasis ofaesthetic appeal will year ago, that incited a woman to actually detract from the communication ofreligion in jump out ofher seat and interrupt mass shout­a mass? ing, "There has been no Mass!" 
When lectors are such good speakers that A friend ofmine returned to the Church, to 
*lXlN'T MOVE OR each scripture reading can become a dramatic your Mass, after a two-year absence. His 1tfE ()(1> 'SRO~l) 
GfT~ IT!

work, will the content ofthe passage be lost to disturbing reaction was, "Was that a Roman the art of its presentation? And is time best Catholic Mass? I had no idea what was going spent when the entire congregation's atten­on." tion is turned away, however breifly, from the theme ofa reading by a priest's compliment of Another fellow student has said, "I avoid the a lector's performance? Isn't this more proper­12:15 Mass. It is too much like a circus. The ly done quietly after mass? performers all put on their acts, and then 
We need a new anthem 
Today is Veterans' Day, for anyone uni­drinking song. "To Anacreon in Heaven." It 
nformed. It was originally known as Armi­is in this melody where most of the (and ihe SuodaDce Comrade.)stice Day, as on this date, in 1918, World problems lie in "The Star-Spangled Banner." War I officially ended with the signing of a Have you ever tried to sing our national treaty. After the United States fought in two anthem? The tune has a melodic range 
more wars, November 11 became a day to beyond the capabilities of most average 
remember all soldiers ofpast wars. Americans. A song which is supposed to in­still national pride should be able to be sung by its common citizens and not merely by 
P.O. Box Q
Tim Neely 
those with a trained voice. At a Chicago Cubs game this past season,

My Turn 
an older veteran with obvious pride in the 

JRoemer letter attacks only symptoms
country he served tried to sing the anthem Since this is one of the three most before the game and sang so poorly he was 
DearEditor: Perhaps with the aid of a joint task force "patriotic" days of the year (Memorial Day nearly booed off the field. Many other 
Dean Roemer's apparent attempt of composed of a team of students and some and Independence Day are the other two), "average" folks must compromise the 
prohibition in the Notre Dame community professional representatives from the Uni­there are many civic celebrations. In all melody for their own limited vocal talents 
is in direct conflict with the lessons we have versity's Psychological Services Department likelihood, at any of these one will hear a when singing along. 
learned from our country's own history. I am authorized by the Dean of Students we can band play "The Star-Spangled Banner." As Is it really fair to put patriotic Americans 
certainly not denying that an alcohol abuse determine what lies at root of the problem. 
everyone should know, this is our national anthem. But is this song really befitting a great country like the U.S.A.? 
Let's look at this song's origin. The lyrics were written in 1814 by Francis Scott Key during a battle of the War of 1812 at Fort McHenry, Md. (In fact, an alternate title for in this situation, where they fear expressing pride in their country because they are not of the elite who can sing the national an­them? 
There is an easy way to solve the problem, and that is by naming one of the other patriotic songs written over the years as the problem exists on this campus, but I strong­ly disagree with Dean Roemer's approach to the problem. He is merely trying to relieve the symptoms without attempting to determine the cause and subsequently cure the illness. 

This is comparable to solving the problem Once we have determined this, we must take whatever steps necessary to solve this problem. 
I believe that the release ofsocial tension is one of the causes of alcohol abuse and whatever must be done to alleviate these tensions should be one of this University's 
his song was "The Battle of Fort McHenry.") new national anthem. The two most ohvious 
of preventing a suicide by taking the razor top priorities. We cannot eliminate alcohol· That is a nice historical background for a choices are "America, the Beautiful" and 
away from the disturbed individual and abuse by attempting to take the keg away song which became ouranthem, but it is also "God Bless America." They are much easier 
expecting this to be a long term remedy from the stud.::nt, rather we must discover a problem. to sing than our old standby, and their lyrics 
without ever searching for the problems 'and remove the cause ofalcohol abuse. The song describes one event in this better express what America stands for than 
which led to the situation in the first place. If WalterIelusic country's long and usually glorious history, a song about an obscure battle of the past. 
action is not taken with regard to the social 135 FisherHall and one that is almost a footnote compared There have been some occasions where 
problems which exist in this community, al­to many others (one battle in a war). Using one or the other has served as a substitute 
cohol abuse will continue to grow in ex­that criterion, "The Battle of New Orleans," for the "real thing." Why not make one or 
ponential fashion -prohibition or no a song about another battle in the same war, the other a permanent replacement? 
prohibition. Editor's Note: Letters should be brief and could be a candidate for our national an­There are many features of the United 
Dean Roemer's recent actions are a good deal with specific issues. They must be typed them. States which make it a great country. One of 
sign that he is determined that the time is at and bear the address, telephone number and When composer Key put his inspiring them is not its national anthem. Canada, 
hand to address this disturbing issue; signature of the author. Initials and pseudo­poem to music, he did a common American France, the U.S.S.R. -all of these have out­
however, I·simply feel that he is taking the nyms are not acceptable. Reproductions, practice of the 1800s -he used an already­standing songs. Even one of the worst 
wrong-approach. I propose that we get the carbon copies, or letters addressed to per­existing melody. The irony of Key's choice countries of all t}me, Nazi Germany, had a 
students involved in finding the cause sons other than the editor are not accept­was that this song about an American victory great anthem. It is about time we joined 
underlying alcohol abuse on this campus. able. All letters are subject to editing. over the British was originally an oldBritish these countries in that category. 
The Observer--~~-~ Editorial Board Department Managet:s 
"ff,,· 0/JioT<'I' ~~ an indcpcndcn: ncw'l'.li'L"r puhll\hc,l !')' rhc ,rudcnh ot the Editor-in-Chief...... ........ : .............. Michael Monk Business Manager .............................Tony Aiello 
111\t'l'lty of Nurre D.tmc du Lt< .1nd S.1mt l\l.tn··, ( ulk.cc. It does r·ut nt'c".ITII)'' .'11anaging Editor................ Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller .............................................Eric Schulz rdlt·ll the pol~< •r·, uf the Jdlllllll\lr.ltlol, llf c1ther llt'itiftttlllll The new' '' rt·l'urt Executiz•e News Editor................ Dave Dziedzic Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owen t·,l ·'' .lltUrJteh· and·'' ohlt,ll\d;· .1' I'O"'hlt-. hhtonJl, rq'rcscnt the up1:11011 of S.'I1C E.xecutiz•e Editor............ Margaret Fosmoe Production Manager.................. Maura Murphy .1 m.qonty of the l:dilur1Jl BoH,I ( o.tmwnt.lrll''· U('lllllln' Jn<l lt-ttn' .trc the new, .\ports Eclitor ................................... Chris Needles Circulation Manager ..........................Ray lnglin ol thur authors. ( olumn ~I'J<t' '' J\Jd.1bk I<> .dl lllt'mht·r, lll the <UI11111lllllt)·. JnJ Editorials Editor ............................. Paul McGinn Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley the free exprC,SIUII of \'Jr}'lll}:; optnlum 011 c.llllpU>. through letter>. I> en<.Oungt'J Features Editor........... ... .Tari Brown 
Photo Et.!lfr1r ................................... Rachel Blount 
Founded November 3, 1966
P.O.Hox Q, Nntn· I>anw. 1:"\i -t(,')';(l t! I')) !59-'l.\0_, 
r 

' 
I 
i I ! 
l r 
The Observer wtll accept classtfieds Mon­day through Fnday. 10 a.m. to 4.30 p m However. classtfteds to appear 1n the next tssue must be rece:ved by 3 p.m. the busmess clay pnor to tnsertion All classtfteds must be prepatd. 
Classifieds Thursda ', November 11, 19'82 -page g etther tn person or through the rna11 
NEED CREDIT? lnformatton on receiving Visa. Master­card. w1th no credit check. Other cards available. Free brochure call Personal Credii ServiCe: (602) 946-6203 ext. 3648 
TYPING AVAILABLE 
287·4082 
HAVE YOU READ THE MOST FAMOUS WALL ON THIS CAMPUS? DO YOU NEED A HAIRCUT BEFORE YOU ARE DEPORTED? DOES YOUR MOTHER DANCE ON TABLES IN A COCKTAIL LOUNGE T? IF YOU ANSWERED YES TC ANY ONE OR MORE OF THESE QUES· TIONS CALL TODAY FOR AN AP­POINTMENT: GUYS $4. GIRLS $6 MICHOLE AT 7850 
TYPING PROFESSIONAL AND EXPERIENCED IN ALL PHASES OF TYPING 2 miles from NO. Call Sue 277· 3878 
LADIES of COLUMBUS meet1ng ThurSday. Nov. 11. New members welcome 
MONEY FOR SCHOOL!! We guarantee to find scholarships. grants, aid which 
you·re eligibie to receJYe. Application matenals · $1.00. FinaniCial Aid F1nder, Box 1053-CD, Fait­field, Iowa 52556. 
EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO 
TYPING, REASONABLE RATES. CALL 
287·5162 

LOST/FOUND 

LOST· L1ght brown Jockey jacket 1n AB 
line the Fnday before Break. If you have 
or heard of anyone who may have found rt 
could you please call 1741 or bnng it by 
328 Grace before it gets cold outs1de 
Lost one black and gold cross pen engraved Damel J. 0 Hare if found please return to 217 grace or call Dan at 1858 
FOUND: Green case of cassett tapes found on New York Metro bus that went from New York to South Bend on Sunday, Oct. 31 Call Bill671 B 
TOILET PAPER WAR'! 
I lost a hat whtle greettng the team at the ma1n c1rcle. It was a platd lnsh cap. of h1gh sent1ental value Please call 277­1 809 if you found 11 sat. night. 
FOUND one set of keys outs1de of Gal· v1n call Dan at 239·6624 to cia 1m 
LOST one small brown carry-on of AD&D books before break If found call Dan at 239·6624 Reward offered' 
Brown1sh·orange wallet poss1bly tn the park1ng lot of Bndgetes on Saturday mght KEEP THE MONEY-NO questiOns asked-I jUSt want the wallet back! NANCY 4263 
LOST. GOLD ..OPEN CENTER HEART LOTS OF SENTIMENTAL VALUE IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL SHARONA X4265 THANKS 
FOUND· Blue NO windbreaker 1n 
LaFortune last Tuesday or so I sort of 
p1cked '' up by mistake Call Margret at 
277-0684 Sorry' 
LOST: a gray stad1um tacket from the d1nmg hall If you have taken or seen 1t, please call 8024 
FOUND: One green notebook lor Com· parat1ve Govt II 11 1s yours please call Andy at 8692 or 8697. 
lost: Key nngwlth three keys ""I love NY.· w1th rainbow lost 1n north quad please call larry x8633 
LOST! 1 orange-brown glass case with a pa1r of glasses 1ns1de: lost last Thursday Please call Joame at 2244 
LOST· DIGITAL WATCH IN STEPAN CENTER TUES NIGHT 11/9 PLEASE CALL FRANK AT 277-2736. 
LOST: stlver Cross pen at the Huddle on 
j :g at 1 0·30am Please call Warren at 1167. 
LOST: BULL 
I hope you collect1ve pellets of rabbit 
dung reai1ze that Bevo w11i be found and 
you w1ll suHer the consequences Call 
8765 and be pemtent belore your lated 
doom occurs 
S1gned. 
The Leg1t1mate 
Owner 
LFOR RENT 
Student Hous1ng -Clean · Safe $1 00/mo. 291·1405 
~: tre Dame Ave Apts. · Apts ava1lable 
tor next semester Call234*6647 tor more 1nformat1on 

NEED AIDE TO NYC/ Ll AREA· FOR THANKSGIVING---CAN LEAVE TUES NOV23AD CALL JOHN at3510 OR 8573 
Need Penn State tix!! Call287·3538. 
MARKETING REP needed to sell Spring Break & Summer/Fall CANOE TRIPS Earn CASH & FREE VACATIONS! Set your own hours! Be your own boss! You must be dynamic and ou1go1ng. Call (312)681-1312 evemng calls preferred or write. PIONEER CANOE & OUTDOOR ADVENTURES, INC, PO. Box 1312, Melrose Park, 1160160. 
HELP! I need a nde to/from Dayton for break. Can·t leave until Wednesday at 12. Will share usual. Andy 8692/8697 
Need Riders to Conn/NYC area for T· giv1ng break Leaving on friday 11119. Call Brian at 3251 or 3252 
RIDE NEEDED TO CLEVELAND WED 24TH CALL MARTY 277·4563. 
Need nde to SPRINGFIELD JL for Thanksgiving. Share usual. Call Frank 6718 
Need Riders Along 180·90 For 11/12/82. 8708-09 
RIDE NEEDED THANKSGIVING BREAK 
D.C. AREA OR No VA. CALL 8332 
I NEED a place to live next semester Paul 1154 
Help! We need 3 ndes to St. LoUis for Turkey Day! Call5528 SMC 
NEED  RIDE  TO  NYC  OR  NJ  FOR  
THANKSGIVING.  CAN  LEAVE  ANY  
DAY. KAREN 284·5338  

Need RIDERS to BLOOMINGTON th1s weekend Call Mary Ann at 284·5470 
NEED RIDE TO NEW ORLEANS FOR THANKSGIVING. CALL ANGELA 284· 4284 
10 SPEED BIKE: Come on, we·ve had our first trace of snow, and there ts more to come, so you won t be able to use your btke any more. Sell tt to mel! Please call Kathleen at 233-4598 1f you have a 10 speed in good cond1t1on 
NEED RIDE TO WASHINGTON DC. OR NORTHERN VA OVER THANKSGIV­ING BREAK CALL 1478 AFTER 11: 30 PM 
HELP: need nde over Thanksg1v1ng break to Pittsburgh or to 1·80 ex1ts 22· 40(preferably x39) W1ll share all ex· penses and dnv1ng. Call Warren at 1 t 67 
fhanks! 
WAITTRESS ONE NIGHT A WEEK CALL FRANCESCO S 277·6155 
WANTED· used refng lor dormroom call Joe X3471 
NEED RIDE MINNEAPOLIS FOR THANX WILL SHARE USUAL JOE X3471 
NEED A RIDE TO PA FOR THANKSGIV· lNG EXIT 10 ON 1·80 CALL STAN 8317 
FOR SALE 

USED BOOKS Bought. Sold, Searched ERASMUS BOOKS Tues-Sun, 12·6 t 027 E Wayne One Block South of Eddy-Jefferson Intersection 
FOR SALE 2 PENN ST GAs PRICE FOR BOTH STARTS AT $100 CALL 1645. 
FOR SALE· Guild D-35 AcoustiC Gu1tar: excellent cond Also. nard shell case Call John 272·0112 or 1·463· 7203 even,ngs 
TAKAMINE Model F-400 12 String GUitar. Rosewood Body.Like New Condi­tion W1th Hard Case $275 call 272· 3028 
Zenith 19 Color TV $150.00 289-7346 
For Sale 1 .tudent T1cket $45 Call Joe x2275 
TICKETS 

Hey folks I have 2 gorgeous g~rls com­Ing up tor lhe Penn St game & I need 2 student tiCkets They are really n1ce gals and they re commg a long way, so make their weekend worthwhile Please call Mark at 3244 & stay 1n your n1ce cozy room w1th a tew cold beers & watch the game 1n comfort. tetreshments on me! 
Need 2 G A IIX for Penn. State game Parents want to see first ND game Please call Nancy 4449 SMC 
11/12/82 NEED PENN STATE GA TIX CALL 1173 
What was that? You sa1d you wanted to become Instantly nch? Then buddy, I m your t1cket. as tong as y all have two for me Two Penn st. GA's. that IS, and you know my mdssrve mounds of money w1ll be more than enough to make you WISh to 
•ell them to you. Call Extremely Well To Do Cindy Lou ----Lou at 2948 
I NEED 2 PENN STUDENT OR GA TICK· ET~"' OII'"'Y 3315 
Need 2 or more GA IIX to PENN ST Call Maureen 5097 SMC B1g Bucks 
Help· my Mom IS bnng1ng 1n J1m Mornson and two friends from the African Continent to see the Penn St. game Would you hap· pen 
Desperately need 1 student tiC for VISiting g~rlfnend for Penn St. $$$ Call Jeff at 1026 
rha ve PENN TJX!! Best offer Call8115 after 10pm. 
S1s and her RICH Harvard fnends com1ng out to see a real football game Need PSU Tix. Chris 1181 
NEED PENN ST. TIX CALL MIKE 287· 4225 
NEED 2 PENN STATE GASCALLx1610 ASK FOR RICH 
11/12/82 NEED PENN STATE GA TIX CALL 1173 
I Need 2 PENN STATE GA·s. Please call Jeff at 1764. 
I Need PENN STATE Student Tix. Please call Jeff at 1764. 
NEED Penn State GAs MUCH $$ Call 277·7529 
FELLOW CALIFORNIANS t NEED ALL OF YOUR N.D. U.S.C FOOTBALL TICK· ETS WILL PAY ANY REASONABLE AMOUNT OF MONEY CALL DAN AT 1858 
HelpIll LITTLE BROTHER NEEDS TWO STUDENT OR GA'S FOR PENN STATE. PLEASE CALL KEVIN 8817 
NEED! TWO PENN ST. TICKETS. PAY GOOD MONEY. CALL MIKE x8705 
HELPI!! NEED 1 GA OR STUDENT TICKET FOR PENN STATEIll Brothers want to see one game! Please call Ann at 3680 ·Thanks! 
I NEED 1 PENN ST TICKET OF ANY KIND. Please call Bob 277-6880. 
Want to be nch and lamous, or at least nch? I need 10 Penn State t1ckets and w1ll pay much$$$ for them, even more for 4 or more together Call Pau) at 1077 
INDEPENDENTLY WEAL THY SIS needs 1 PENN STATE GA or STUD BIG TIME MONEY IS no problem CALL Ross at 1898 
My voluptuous little SISler still needs PENN ST t1x, stud & GAs Were talk1ng BIG$$$ (and no date) JOE 1652 
SAVE YOURSELF rHE HEADACHE ONE CALL WILL GET YOU TOP DOL· LAR for PENN STATE GAS call 272­7152 
DESPERATELY NEED GA TIX FOR PENN STATE CALL 6803 
NEED 2 or 4 GAs tor Penn St. Call WeeK· days collect 312·887-0700 Call n1qhts & weeken"ds collect 312-266·0471 Ask for Mark 
PLEASE HELP A STUDENT IN DIRE NEED OF PENN ST TICKETS CALO DAN AT 8900 
PLEASE HELP' NEED 2 PENN GA MAURA X2244 
I need 1 Penn State s1uaent uc or GA Call 1261 
Need 1 or 2 STUDENT orGAs call Steve at 1473 
NEED PENN ST GAs BIG TIME' $$$ CALL 1627 
SQUIRE Need Billy Squ1re tiCkets real bad Anyone w1th llckets please call$$$$ Dav1d 277 · 3823 
Need Penn State 11x Call J1m at 3342 
I need 2 GA·s for Penn State Call 289· 9304 
FAMILY CANT COME Have 4 Penn Ttx Wtll sacnf1ce Call M1ke at 3493 after 11 PM 
HelpII Need 2 GAS and f STUDENT Ilk for PENN ST. Call1193 
I Will pay anyth1ng lor Penn St Gas or Stu TIX call Tom 8539 
MONEY NO OBJECT! NEED 6 30yrd LINE OR BETTER AT LEAST 4 TO· GETHER ANYTHING FOR PENN ST. TXS. CALL SMITTY AT x\075. 
See Add AboveIll 
Must Have Txsltl SEE ADD ABOVE 
Neea many PENN ST Gas or student !IX call Paui340S 
Need many PENN ST Gas or student tiX call Paul3405 
NEED 2 PENN STATE STUDENT TIX PHIL 1764 
NEED TWO PENN STATE GAS OR STU TIX CALL KEVIN 1629 
Need 1 Penn St tiCket $$$ call289· 7340 
Desperately need 2 or 3 Penn State GAs Call Norb at 8788 
Need Penn student hx. Call John x3554 
NEED 1 2.0R 3 GA TIX FOR PENN ST CALL JIM 277·2736 

Cous1n VISiting from Okla wants to see lnsh beat PSU. Call3628 1f have stu t1x to sell 
HI! 

I need 2 Penn St. G A ·s real bad bad bad 
bad bad bad bad! Please call Pat at 8652. 
Thank you Bve! 

Bad? I need tickets so bad that 11 hurts! Please call Jim at 8641 1f you can help relieve my pam Thanks 
PLEASE HELP! NEED 2 PENN STATE GAS FOR MOM AND GRANDMOM. BIG $$$.CALL FRANK AT 8225 
PLEASE HELPI NEED PENN ST STU· DENT TIXI CALL MAGGIE x3611 
DESPERATELY need 3 STUD. tix for Penn. St. Colleen 6825. 
FOR SALE: At least 6 Penn State GAs. Call Dave 3673 
I need PSU tixs. GAs or Stud. Call 3673 
HELP! I NEED ONE STUDENT OR GA TICKET FOR PENN STATE I AM WIL· LING TO DO ANYTHING FOR THIS. CALLJOHN AT 1528. 
NEED MANY PENN ST GAS WILL PAY BIG BUCKS 
WILL SELLSOUL OR OTHER VALUABLES FOR 2 TICS CALL PHIL.277·0249 
WILL TRADE 1 PENN ST STU FOR PENN ST GA KELLY 277·2940 
NEED MANY PENN ST GAS WILL PAY $60·$100 PER PAIR CALL 287·3148 
$$~$for PENN STATE STUD OR GA TIX INEEDTWOOFEITHERCALLMEL AT 1603 
NEED MONEY? SELL ME YOUR STU­DENT TICKETS TO THE PENN STATE GAME! This is non-taxable 1ncome just wailing to be yours! At 3075! Repeat: 3075!! 
HELP! WILL PAY BIG BUCKS FOR PENN ST GAs x 1738 
DESPERATELY NEED PENN ST GA TIXS.PETE 232·1468 
IF YOU'VE GOT THE TIX. 1. VE GOT THE BUX1$70·$100 for pa~ts of Penn St GAs. The better the seats, the better the $$$. Call Rob. 3288 
WANT TO ESCAPE NO FRIGIDITY? That s nght Penn St. game IS g01ng to be real cold So wh1le you snuggle up to your honey, warm and cozy tndoors, my 3 lnsh·fanattc fnends can keep your seats warm at NO stad1um Not only that, they"ll ltne your pockets With some btg·ttme cash And stnce my fnends are leprac­hauns tt woulri be agamst the luck ot 1he lnsh not to partake 111 th1s propos111on HELPt NEED 3 STUDENT TIXI CALL DIANE AT 79831 
Penn St. r,., student or GA Call John 1707 
Need 4 PENN STATE GAs for family reumon at N.D. (small fam1ly) call Caspar 277·3276 
PLEASE HELP !I Desperately need t or 2 Penn Slate student orGAs Willing to pay BIG BUCK$1 Call277-2012 AsK tor M1ke THANKS' 
i need stuoent & GA T1c tor Penn call Pete 1608 
Ch1cago clergy need Penn Stae rtckets John al1580 
NEED 6 GAs AND 1 STUD TIX FOR PENN ST DAVE 277·0955 
FOR SALE 2 PENN ST GAS 50 YD LINE· BEST OFFER TIL THURS X8057 
WatchPENNSTATEonTV lneed3or4 GA ux W1ll pay $40 each Call 272·9248 ask tor John 
I NEED PENN STATE STUDENT TIX. CALL ME AT 1722. ALOHA 
NEED ANY AND ALL PSU TIX (STUD/GA) CALL MARK AT 3521 
I NEED 2 PENN ST GAS CALL ERIC 3663 
FOR SALE 2 PENN STATE GAS RON.239·5611.9am·5pm 
Need 2 Penn State t1x. student or GA Call Jack, 1164 
Need two t1ckets for Penn St tor 1n~laws Call 232·0063 aMer 5 P M 
Need Penn St GAs Chns-1730 
GUESS WHAT? I NEED 2 PENN STATE GAS' MONEY IS NO OBJECT (ITS DADS!) CALL GREG H. 277·1806 ANYTIME 
NEED 3 STU TIX FOR PENN ST CALL JOHN 8362 
NEED t STUDENTORGA PENN STATE fiCKET CALL LARRY· 283·1047 
COLORADO LODGE REUNION" Need several Penn st t1x. GAs too Paul 289· 5975 
NEED PENN GAS & STUDENT TIX FOR FAMILY· CALL MOLLY OR KATHY AT 8085 
HELP" I NEED 2 PENN S I STUD TIX $$$CALL ED 7838 
rleed 8 stud or -Ja 't\1111 pay bucks call 
:954 

~ -···· .. ·---. . . ·­
... ,-.. ~·-.~·----"' ....... ~----~ 
·-----.... 

KHELPI I DESPERATELY NEED 2 PENN STATE GAS AND 1 STUDENT TICKET' PLEASE CALL MICHELLE AT 6843!1 
NEED 1 STUDENT PENN STATE TIK FOR FRIEND COMING FROM FLORIDA·-CALLJOANIE AT 2244 
Desperate:y need 1 GA or stud ticket for P~nn State Call Kev1n 1441 Desperate.y need 1 GA or stud ticket for Penn Stae Call Kev1n 1441 
FOR SALE 1 STU PENN STATE TICKET-$50 INCLUDES USE OF 10 288­
8402 
QUANT A POPE and Mrs John Paul II need 2 Penn St. tlx. Call Jamie(232-0550) 
Need Penn St. stud or GAs. Call Mark 1796 
FOR SALE: 2 PENN STATE GAs SEC. 35 NO OFFERS UNDER $50. CALL 1106 
I need Penn State tix. Mike x234·5556. 
UNTOLD RICHES AWAIT ANYONE WILLING TO PART WITH PENN STATE GAS. CALL 1262 
I NEED 2 STUDENT TIX FOR PENN STATE PLEASE CALL TRACY x8009. 
I NEED 2 STUDENT TIX FOR PENN STATE PLEASE CALL TRACY x8009 
2 PENN STATE STUDENT TIX FOR SALE-BEST OFFER CALL DAVE AT 8371. 
NEED 4 PENN ST GAS CALL STEVE 1855 
PENN STU TJK 4 SALE $35JOE X3471 
Need 2 PENN STATE GAs. Please call Kevin at 277-1705. 
DESPERATELY NEED 2 STUDENT OR GA TIX TO PENN STATE MONEY IS NO OBJECT CALL JOHN AT 8250 
DADS AN ADMIRAL AND PROMISES TO SEND ME TO LEBANON IF I DONT GET TWO PENN STATE GAS. DON'T KNOW LEBANESE SO CALL BOB AT 232-4731 
NEED PENN STATE GAS CALL JEFF 1225 
NEED STUDENT OR GA PENN STATE TIX. MIKE-3571. 
Need lour(4) GA t1ckets for Penn State game Please call Mike at 8728. 
PERSONALS 
I NEED 3 PENN STATE GAs DAD and 2 RICH FRIENDS 
To Maaura Kann from SMC--An 1ncred1b­1y wonderful ch1ck/ Her btrthday s now here/ We are ready to cheer/ (You Hoos1er you)/ Happy B-Day, Love 1979­80 zoo-2 ers 
Birthday greeungs to Claudta and Lou1se NO wouldn t be the same wtthout you two 
St Ed s Centenn1al Week November 13·?1 TALK IT UP !IIIIII 
TOMORROW IT COMES AT LAST! SENIOR CLASS BLOCK PARTY 3:33­
6:30 IN THE ACC FOOD DRINK MUSIC GUEST CELEBS! COME MEET THE NE NEIGHBORHOOD 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY SAM. Love Mom. Dad and everyone ,home 
Junior Class BOWLING!!!!! every Thursday night, 10·12 pm VFW Lanes t047 L1ncolnway E 90 cents/game 50 cents/shoes 
St Edward s Centenmall!! St Edward s Centenn1allll St Edwards Centenmal!!! St Edwards Centenn1all!! St Edwards Centenntal!!! 
JUNIOR CLASS PRE·PENN FES. 
TIVITIES 
Noon-3:15 at Greenfield 
Beverages and FREE burgers! Be there 
HYPNOTIZING, MESMERIZING, CAPTIVATING, AMUSING, EXCIT· lNGIII See Tom Deluca. celebrated hyp· notiSI Nov 11 at 8 pm 0 Laughlin iSMCt 
$t 
Desperately need 2 GAs for the Penn St. Game I will pay b1g bucks Call Anne x4366 (SMC) 
PUP PUP PUP PUP UP PUP PUP PUP PUP UP PUP PUP PUP PUP UP PUP PUP PUP PUP PUP PUP PUP PUP PUP PUPPUPPUPPUPPUPPUPPUPPUP PUP PUP PUP PUP PUP PUP PUP E 
THE HIT ME WITH YOUR CHEAP-SHOT SHOW WILL HOPEFULLY RETURN IN THE NEXT WEEK OR SO. BE LISTEN· lNG TO WSNO ON FRIDAY NIGHTS FROM 11 :00-? 
EEFER. HAVE A WONDERFUL, NUTTY-MARVELOUS 20TH BIRTHDAY LOVE, PETER 
LISTEN TO THE MID MORNING BREAK ON WSND AM64 EVERY MONDAY t,ND F"'IDAY MORNING FROM 10AM 
"t011AM 
John Horky... 
not just for breakfast anymore. 

Ed RuddiCk on the verge of revenue 
Jim Colvin. He may just put a heel inyour ~ lace. JL 
HELP!'! I NEED ONE JUST ONE PENN ST TICKET CALL 1269 AND ASK FOR M. x JUNIOR CLASS DATE NIGHT JUNIOR CLASS DATE NIGHT! x 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY ROB HEGLIN The Wildest,Craz1est Party Animal we·ve ever metHow many people get chased by women,arrested by police,and busted for parientals in one mght?From yoUI Party Assoc1ates 
JELLYBEAN Anhough we may be far apart your heart an<! soul are he•e, M~ body aches for you to be near 
Y.B.B.M. 

BOSTON CLUB TAILGATER SAT GREENFIELD ACROSS FROM SENIOR BAR BEGINS AT NOON. LOOK FOR FLAG OR SIGN. 
DIANA ROSSTH DIANA ROSSTH DIANA ROSSTH WHAT A WOMAN ... 00 
LALA 
DIANA ROSSTH DIANA ROSSTH DIANA ROSSTH WHAT A WOMAN .. 00 
LALA 
JIM GIBLIN RETURNS-MEMORIAL TAILGATER SATURDAY NOON SATURDAY BOSTON CLUB MIKE SMITH NOW WHO WOULD EVER BELIEVE A NAME LIKE THAT??? 
BILLY FARRELL RETURNS FROM THE HEIGHTS OF DORCHESTER SEE HIM AT THE BOSTON CLUB TAILGATER SATURDAY PENN ST WEEKEND WHO WILL BERT BUFFALO ON. STINKY STANK ON, JIM· MMY THE GREEK SLIME ON. FARRELL HANG ON AND WHAT BUS WILL JOHNNY RIDE ON OUR BOSS IS OUT OF TOWN FOR THE WEEKEND SO THE "HIT ME YOUR CHEAP· SHOT SHOW" WITH YOUR FAVORITE D.J."S "'EGGIE AND G. W. KOOL MAY "'E· TURNI BE LISTENING TO 6.;()0 ON YOUR A.M. RADIO DIAL FRIDAY NIGHT! CALL IN AND TAKE A CHEAPSHOT AT SOMEONE YOU DISLIKE. CALL 9-239-6400 OR 9-239­7425 WITH YOUR REQUESTS! 

ANNOUNCING BELATED HUMP NIGHT 1111 COMING FRIDAY TO A CAVANAUGH NE.A.R YOU. BEvEilages will be served. 
SUSIE· HAPPY 18TH BIRTHDAY• WE LOVE YA 'YOUR ROOMIES 
Sen1or EXTRAVAGANZA' Sen1ors be a part of THE SECOND ANNUAL BLOCK PARTY. With BEYERages. food and 
fTlUSICI~! 
Today 1s Susie Baker's blrthdaylll Roses appropriate Kisses acceptable 
To Bog To the Stud on 3CD. D1tch that L1sa and come with me, I M A Babe 
RUB-A-DUB RUB·A·DUB RUB-A-DUB 
The outlet IS comtng 
BEAUX ARTS BALLI! In, as always, BAD TASTE!! Featuring the bands The Kinetics and The Rooms Friday night from 9 to 2 In the Arkle Building Come as your favorite Eferbee & Eler· bee buildingI! Special prize for the best O'Shaughnasy Hall costume! 
MONTY PYTHON MONTY PYTHON 

AND NOW FOR SOMETHING COM· PLETEL Y DIFFERENT KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS HALL 
NOV 12 at 7.9.11 NOV 13 at 8.10.12mld COST 1 00 MEMBERS FREE 
PREPROFESSONAL CLUB MTG! TONITE 6 45 127 NSH 
Rumor nas 11 that Pat Ostrande1. M1ke Holloway. and Mtke Walsh do mterestmg th1ngs w1th tello at tunch by the way Pat. I don 1believe we ve met. 
FINAL CLUE'"'! The wager was made on March 20. 1f the lnsh don t go he·ll be o;nowm a olen! yI 
0. How does a Hoos1er order hts dmner? A..E L.a Carte. 




Banners for display at halftime of Saturday's game must be approved. This will be done tomorrow from 1 to 5 p.m. in the stu­dent government offices. Banners must be checked with stadium personnel before the game, and may be picked up for display at halftime. -The Ohsen•e1·. 
A turkey shoot sponsored by NVA and supervised by Army ROTC will be held on Nov. 15 and 16. Deadline for signup is tomorrow. All equipment provided. No experience necessary. For more information contact NVA at 239-6100. -The Obseroer. 
The Irish ruggers will hold a mandatory meeting tonight at 7:30 to elect next semester's Council. -The Obseroer. 
A Sports Law Forum will be held tomorrow after­noon at 3 in Room 101 at the Law School. Martin Blackman, Esq., Chairman of the Practicing Law Institute Committee on Sports Law, and Martin Silfen, Esq., will address students and faculty. Topics to be discussed will include the status ofthe NFL players' strike; endorse­ments and merchandising of athletes; and the effect of cable TV on sports. -The Observer. 
Need a Christmas gift for the person who has everything? NFL Films has announced that "Wake Up the Echoes," the 52-minute film chronicling the history of Notre Dame football, will be released on videotape for the upcoming holiday season. It will be available in l/2-inch VHS and Beta II formats, and can be yours for home use for just $49.95. To order your copy, contact NFL Films at (609) 778-1600, or write them c/o 330 Fellowship Drive, Mount Laurel, N.j 08054. -The Observer. 
The ND Volleyball teamraised its record to 23-9 last night with a 15-12, 15-7, 12-15, 15-12 victory at Valparaiso. The Irish, who are still in the running for an NCAA Tournament bid, finish their regular season tomorrow afternoon at home against IUSB. The match at the ACC Pit begins at 5 p.m. -The Observer. 
Michigan State's Newell Brown, a junior 
center who had four goals and an assist last weekend, was named the CCHA Player ofthe Week. Goalie Bob McNamara, who excelled in a 





' 
.. 
' 
J 
. 

The Observer 
Thursday, November 11, 1982 -page 10 
continuedfrom page 12 

were short passes with very few going to the secondary. 
Toran notes, "We knew that Marino was an outsstanding quarter­back. This had a big effect on us be­cause we knew we would have to play hard every minute and could not afford any mistakes." 
One of the key points in the game was when Pitt drove 98 yards and scored in the third quarter. 
Toran recalls, "After that we started to think that maybe the game was sliding away from us and we had to pull ourselves back together. We bent, but we did not break." 
Throughout the day the defense spent close to 40 minutes on the field, yet they did not seem to tire. 
"We knew we would be on the field a lot because Pitt controls the ball very well. We practiced hard all week anticipating spending that much time on the field and it payed 
off." 

Unfortunately, the Irish secon­dary cannot relax for a moment, as Penn State rolls in this week bring­ing with them some very impressive 

statistics. Namely the sixth rated 
quarterback in passing efficiency in 
the country, which is Todd Black­
ledge. 
As the defense must once again 
prepare for a highly touted quarter­
back, Toran believes, "Penn State is a 
very good team. We will have to 
have our best defensive game this 
year. Penn State is a lot like Pitt." 
As far as Blackledge is concerned, Toran says, " It seems like every team we play has a ggod quarter­back. What makes Penn State's pas­sing game so good is their excellent running attack. If we can stop the run, we can shut down the pass. The key is to catch their running backs." 
When Penn State does pass Toran will primarily be covering flanker Kenny jackson. So far this season jackson has caught 31 passes for 540 yards and 6 touchdowns. 
According to Toran, "Jackson is an all-purpose athlete. He can run, block, and catch. He is one of the best receivers I'll face this year." 
Toran is very versatle as he is on most of the special teams. He has one blocked kick this year against Oregon which turned out to save 
E·Systems continues the tradition of the world's great problem solvers. 
Recognized with Archimedes and Newton as one of the three greatest mathematicians, Karl Gauss also pioneered math in astronomy, gravitation, elec­tricity and magnetism. 
E-Systems engineers are continuing in his foot­steps today. They are pioneering technology and solving some of the world's toughest problems in 
E-Systems "pioneer­ing" in communications, data, antenna, intelligence and reconnaissance proj­ects results in systems that are often the first-of-a-kind in the world. 
For a reprint of the Gauss illustration and information on career op­portunities withE-Systems in Texas, Florida, Indi­ana, Utah or Virginia, write: 

Lloyd K. Lauderdale, V.P.­Research and Engineering, E-Systems, Corporate Headquarters, P.O. Box 226030, Dallas, Texas 75266. 
~~ E-~~~!e~~~. 
An equal opportun•ty employer MiF H. V 
...Toran 
the Irish from losing the game. 
One should also note that Toran is a very rugged player. Since he started that first game two years ago, Toran has not missed a single start­ing assignment. 
As Stacey Toran celebrates his 21st birthday.this week, there would be no finer present than to notch a win over highly rated Penn State on Saturday afternoon. 
SportsLaw forum on Friday 
Martin Silfen, Esq., and Martin Blackman, Esq., a pair of New York lawyers, will discuss such topics as the status of the NFL Players strike and dealing with the news media at the Sports and Entertainment Law Forum to be held tomorrow after­noon at three in Room I 0 1 oftht: ND Law School. This fomm is opt:n to the public free ofcharge. -The Ob­
server 

RESTAURANT 

15 REASONS: 
Broiled Seafood Platter Charbroiled Halibut Steak Charbroiled Salmon Shrimp De Johnge Charbroiled Swordfish Walleye Pike Red Snapper Trout Ala Mer Stuffed Flounder New England Scrod Rock Lobster Pan Fried Rainbow Trout Gulf Coast Shrimp Stuffed Shrimp Pan Fried Frog Legs 
5:30 Nightly All Dly SundiY 
100 Center C•pllx 700 L.W.W., llllhlwlkll 
259-9925 

----~-----
Ih~~==================================== 
~~4()l~~=======================T=h=u=rs=d=ay='=N=o=v=em==b=er==11=,=1=9=8==2==p=ag=e=l=l== 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 

Campus 
•11 
:30 a.m. -Mass for Peace, Rev. Theodote M.. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Sacred Heart Church 

•12:10 
p.m. -Music Department Concert, Woodwind Ensmble Concert, Annenberg Auditorium 

•12:
15 p.m. -Presentation, on Tax Deferred Annuties, Neil Bancroft, Carroll Hall 

•4 
p.m. -Radiation Lab Seminar, Polarization Labelling Spectroscopy of Interhalogen Com­pounds," Dr. Aitken R. Hoy, Rad. Lab Conference Theatre 

•4:15 
p.m. -Lecture, Nuclear Arms Race, by Prof. William 0. Mclean, 101 Law School 

•4:30 
p.m. Mathematics Colloquium, "Integral Orthogonal Representations and Her­mitian Over Orders," Prof. Carl Riehm, 226 CCMB 

•7 
p.m. -Presentation, On Tax Deferred An· nuities, Neil Bancroft, C-14 Aud ACC 

•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, Nuclear Arms Race, Prof. Everett I. Mendelsohn, Memorial Library Auditorium 

•7:30 
p.m. -Film, "Culture as Nature," Annen­berg Auditorium 

•s 
p.m. -Show, Tom Deluca, Illusionist, O'Laughlin Auditorium, Sponsored by SAPB 

•s 
p.m. -Concert, Area Composers Concert, Little Theatre 

•8:30 
p.m. -Film, "The Future That Was," An· nenberg Auditorium 

•9 
p.m. -NAZZ, Lyons Hall Talent Night


Aspirin Man 
David). Adams 
.(ON'IAK AAIO 
HtYJ ·n·4AT WASJJ
'1"11£ .soN o,:' 

T.V. Tonight
£3 ,QD f fYIAY/3£. I


5/IOULO HAV£ 
6 p.m. 
6:30p.m. 
7p.m. 

ACROSS 31 -Nin 1 Woe is me! 32 Haggard
The Daily Crossword 
5 Rich people heroine 1 0 Sketched 35 Season 14 Full set choice 
of cards 39 O.D.E. 15 Baking 40 Woo 
chambers 41 Bank deal 16 Atmosphere 42 Fishy item 17 Seasons 43 Blow a horn 20 Opp. of 45 Statement 
W.N.W. ofevents 21 Bridge seat 48 Wild party 22 Pie section 49 Ballistic 23 Furnished missiles 24 Those with 50 -of the 
children tongue 26 Horses 51 Remnant 29 Kind of • 54 Seasons 
sleeve 58 Der­30 Goes astray 59 Cornered 
Wednesday's Solution 


©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 11/11/82 All Rights Reserved 11/11/82 
···········································~··············~ 
.: WHATDOESTHE : 
_&nior Bar
i STUDENT UNION RECORD STORE !
• 
icHEAPERPRICFS .. \,,,.2, \2p•·rn·mot1h''"n''"''!MOST CURRENT SINGLES· s(; '~"•n•mp.m .u ss<J<Jli''' :CUT.OUTS ... $2..'~"' $'\ ·~~ 
: GREAT SEl.ECTIOI\ ... "~''"'~''" ... , . .,~,-n ..·r~. ~•.",. '''~-. 
7:30p.m.
60 lost 27 Groupof 61 Hollow the Caro­
stem lines 62 Wiseones 28 Gaelic 63 Landlord's 29 Sleep 
8p.m. 
due sound 31 Mature DOWN 32 Blemish 1 Church 33 Make better 
8:30p.m. section 34 Fish-eating 
9p.m. 2 Track bird 
circuits 36 Points 3 Field finger at measure 37 Certain 
9:30p.m.
4 Item for horse 
10p.m.
schussing 38 Gambit 5 Indian 42 Classified dwellings 43 Common 6 Nautical chords 
llp.m.
call 44 USSR 7 Opening secret 8 Terminate police 9 Draft 45 Fighting 
letters 46 Santiago's 11:30 p.m. 10 Missionary land to lepers 47 Short tale 11 Animal 48 Born stomach earlier 
16 NewsCemer 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 3·2·1 Contact 16 NBC Nightly News 22 CBSNews 28 ABC's World News Tonight 34 Making It Count 16 MASH 22 Laverne and Shirley 28 joker's Wild 34 The MacNeiVLehrer Report 16 All in the Family 22 Family Feud 28 Tic-Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 16 Fame 22 Magnum PI 28 joanie Loves Chachi 34 All Creatures Great and Small 28 The Star ofthe Family 16 Cheers 22 Simon and Simon 28 Too Close for Comfort 34 Wild America 16 It Takes Two 16 Hill Street Blues 22 Knots Landing 28 20/20 34 Odysser 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Erewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 34 The Dick Caven Show 16 Tonight Show 22 Quincy and McCloud 28 ABC News Nightline 
12 Put up 50 Sword, old 
Observer note_______,
13 Merchandise style 18 Necessity 51 Trick 19 Go higher 52 Prayer 
Ke'enan Hall has announced that their 25th
23 Forfear ending 
Birthday Party tomorrow night which was
that 53 Insect 24 Lively: 55 Privileges: reported to be open to all Notre Dame and Saint dial. abbr. Mary's students, will be limited to Keenan Hall resi· 25 Eagerly 56 Exist dents and their guests. Other events in the celebra· 
expectant 57 Paving 
tion of Keenan's anniversary will be open to
26 Half: pref. stuff 
anyone interested, however. 
• 
HAVE FOR ME? !· 

Si}JACK DANIEL'S 
-~~. ; 
: 

Nite at Senior Bar 
: : 

T-SHIRT GIVEAWAY l I 
• 
: : 

l 
• 

DOORS OPEN AT 9:30 
:  \.n''"i'l>t·r<:r"'  .\h"h llh"·'· P.u lk11.11.<r.  
•e e  .louqh·\ .•111d m,tll\ lltlll\" Al-SO ... '"·ord...l.llld "'·"'~ '·'1"-"' ·"·"'·'"I•·  
:  C(Ji'\VENIENCE ... 111. ·'IJ~L-Ih•·•·i''""'·  ·  :...  ····'"rnh··  
•  •  ·  .\\.un1lu,,rot l..th•nun"·,nh.lt'''l"-1' Itt 1  
:  PlUS -or<k·rtd .<ll•ullhl.lki·nnh ••~t·w..·k lu.tmn·'  

. _ 

I 
1 
l 
1 
i 

Thursday, November 11, 1982 -page 12
~norts 
I I 
Of Duerson 
r. 
I f Toran emerges from shadow 
I ByTIMDOYLE campaign Toran made 30 tackles Toran says, "We. knew Pitt was aI Sports Writer while breaking up six passes and one very good team and that to beat interception. Last year he had 54 them we would have to play a hard, When people talk about the Notre tackles, broke up four passes, and tough defense. I feel we went in with 
Dame defensive secondary, most of had two interceptions. Toran has the right attitude." the conversation centers around continued to improve this year as In the first quarter of the gamesenior tri-captain Dave Duerson. well. So far this season, he is third on Toran got beat on a couple ofpasses 
' I 
However, Stacey Toran has played in the team in tackles with 56, has 
and missed a couple of tackles. After Duerson's shadow for the past two broken up four passes, and has one those first few mistakes he settled 
r and a half years and has gone with­interception and one blocked kick. down and played outstanding
an out some much deserved recogni­He attributes his improvement to game.tion. 
CoachJim Johnson. "I was really nervous going into been starter
Toran has a at "Coach Johnson has given me a the game. I didn't worry or make any
cornerback ever since he replaced better insight to the game. The little adjustments after the first few plays an injured (you guessed it) Dave things have helped a lot. He has put because I knew as long as I settled Duerson in the third game of the me in a position where I am com­
down, I would be fine." 
1980 season. After two seasons as fortable." 
Although All-America candidate 
the weakside cornerback, Toran has The Indianapolis native had the Dan Marino passed for 314 yards
been moved to the strong side cor­best game of his career to date last against the Irish. most of the passesnerback position this year. week against Pittsburgh. He was The 6-4, 197 lb. junior has im­among the leaders in tackles with See TORAN, page 10 proved each year. In his freshman 14, second only to Zavagnin's 16. 
~otherfUneseason 
Irish soccer team finishes 16-4-2 
badly, but when one considers the Mark l.uetkehans from sweeper to By SAM SHERRILL number of injuries and bad breaks center back and let Dominick 
Sports Writer 

the team suffered, one can see why Driano play sweeper." Coach Rich Hunter feels rather Midfield, however, could be a With Notre Dame's 7-3 blowout 
pleased with the results. problem with all three senior~ ap­of Toledo on the road Sunday after­
"After the first third ofthe season, parently graduating. "Well, yes, but noon, the soccer season came to an 
I felt a good deal ofdoubt about how due to the injuries during the end for 1982. The final season
Stacev Toran bas bad his bands full against some pretty fair good we would be," Hunter said. season, we got to play some of the 
record for the squad was 16-4-2,
quart~backs these lastfew weeks, but be hasperformed admirab­"We lost two starters, Mike Sullivan freshmen in there. and l think that 
with an early-season much-disputed
ly. Toran, who celebrated his 21st birthday yesterday, would like and Joe Holterl)'lan, before the experience will help them along. As 
loss to Ohio State being erased due
nothing betterfor a present than a victory Saturday againstfifth­season even started. The game with for forwards, Richard Herdegen and 
to the fact that the Buckeyes were
ranked Penn State. The senior quarterback is coming off a fine Indiana may have been the turning Steve Chang will be back, but Dave 
put on NCAA probation. Once again,
14-tackle performance in last Saturday's upset ofNo. 1 Pitt. Tim point (a 4-0 loss). That was not a 4-0 Miles may be going to Europe." 
the Irish missed out on the coveted 
.. 
Doyle's profile ofthe Indianapolis native appears at right. (Photo game; we are a much better team. In terms ofstatistics, Mario Manta 
tournament bid which they want so
by Ed Carroll) We looked at the films of the game; finished out his career at Notre there should have been two penalty Dame as the leading scorer for 1982 kicks for us. (3 all-time), with 40 points on 16 "The team could have folded after goals and eight assists. Rich Her­the IU game, but they stuck togeth­degen was second, with 3 7 pointson
Kent St. shatters E. Mich. streak 
er. Personally, I think the positive 14 goals and nine assists. Dave Miles' turning point of the season was the nine goals and 25 points were next Dayton game (a 3-0 Irish victory). on the list. Twenty of the twenty­
It had to happen sooner or later. Time was, unfor­
After that match, we only played one three players scored at least one goal tunately, not on the side of the Eastern Michigan bad game the rest ofthe year, against in a season which saw the Irish out­Hurons. After 27 straight losses, EMU went down to a 
Akron. And that game we could have score opponents by a 78-23 margin stunning victory. won ifwe had hit our early chances." and outshoot them 550-223. There was more than time working against them, Hunter was also pleased with the Gerard McCarthy played superbly however. There was also the Kent State Golden Flash. performance of his freshmen. He in goal for most of the year, compil­
Bottom Ten
The Flash were almost as bad going into the game, will certainly need their presence ing a 1.127 goals-against averagt:, 82 and much worse coming out. Huron kicker Bob next year with the number of saves, and ten shutouts. His finest Hirschmann kicked three field goals, and the Flash ---------graduation losses the team is facing. game was probably against Dayton, found their own niche in Bottom Ten history, losing Goalkeeper Gerard McCarthy, when he could do no wrong.
Meanwhile, the coveted Dick Nixon "They'll have to drag me, screaming and kicking" Award goes to Michi­
9-7. defender Larry Smith, midfielders Biggest game of the year? The It was a gallant effort by a heavy favorite, and the folks. gan State coach Frank 'Muddy' Waters. Despite his Jay Schwartz, Mike Sullivan, and Dayton win. Biggest goal? Miles' team's 1-8 record, Waters says the school will have to
at Kent State are to be congratulated. Like the people at Steve Berry, and forward Mario overtime tally to upset national Northern Illinois before them, they had the guts and fire him. "Whenever you hear someone resigned, it Manta are all seniors this year. Hun­power UNC-Greensboro. A most means he was fired," Waters said this week. ''I'm not
gumption to lose to a team no one else could lose to. ter commented, "We've always had valuable player? Rich Herdegen. The So the mantle falls to Memphis State. And the rest of going to n:sign, but they might fire me anyway." good luck with goalkeepers. We sophomore forward had a five-game Finally, the Pete Rozelle Award for creative schedul­
the fireplace as well. have four ofthem for next year who ·scoring streak at one time and con-The Tigers became the losingest team in Division 1-A ing goes to the Spiders of Richmond. Faced with a are fairly equal, and we should have 
See SOCCER, page 9
football last week-extending their streak to 16 games season in which they stood to lose every game, the ad­a good competition. We may moveministration was obviously looking for a way to prolong
in a pitiful performance at Tennessee. Carry: on, boys. the pleasure. What they came up with was truly inspira­
The support of Bottom Ten voters nation-wide is with tional. Rihmond played four games, took a week off,
you. played four more games, then took two weeks off. Only
In Oregon, losing football is a way of life. Unfor­after the layoff will they play their final game. That'll be
tunately, some bureacratic do-gooders apparently decided that too much fun was the annual clash with perrenial mediocrity William and
unhealthy. So they Mary.
devised a way for teams to win on Saturdays. They made Here are this week's rankings:
the plan so air-tight that it became impossible to avoid. !)Memphis State (0-9)
Hence, these scores came across the wire from the 2) Rice (0-9)
Lum6erjack State last weekend. 
3) Kent State (0-9)

Oregon Tech 40, Eastern Oregon 23. 4) Richmond (0-9)
Southern Oregon 23, Western Oregon 13. 
5) Texas Southern (0-9-1)

Speaking of confusion, Bottom Ten readers flooded 6) Kentucky {0-8-1)
the main offices with letter this week about the fate of 7) Oregon (0-8-1)
the Concordias. As you may or may not remember, four 
8) Oregon State (0-8-1)

different teams called Concordia played last week, and 
9) Michigan State (1-8)

voters were left understandably perplexed as to who 10) Texas-El Paso (1-8)was who. Therefore, as a public service, we update you 
\ 
now on the main game last week. 
.:;, \;­
Also receiving votes:

Yes, it finally happened. Concordia beat Concordia. North Texas State (1-7)
Or, ifyou prefer, Concordia lost to Concordia. Colorado (1-7-1)
In any event, the final score was 35-20. Sorry about 
that, Wisconsin. Also not receiving votes: 
The George Wallace "In Alabama, nobody ever really Bowie Kuhn ( 0-1 )
quits" Award, prese:lted to the man who can never ac­tually give up the glory, goes to Alabama's Paul 'Bear' Quote ofthe week:
Bryant. Last week, the legendary mentor once again Eastern Michigan Coach Bob LaPointe, asked what
hinted that he'll be moving on, calling it quits, hanging the streak-breaking win would mean to his team: "It
'em up, putting himself out to pasture, spending more time in a rocking chair on the front porch, checking out. 
means the next game we won't have so many reporters
-here."
etc. 
Eastem Michigan football coach Bob LaPointe shows bis dejec­tion after his team dropped out ofthis week's Bottom Ten by virtue ofa disappointing 9-7 upset ofKent State. This week's pollappears at left. ( AP Photo) · 


