---------~----....._.--~-~­
• .. Cabaret -page 6 

VOL. XVI, NO. 128 the mdependent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, APRIL 14, 1982 

By MARK WORSCHEH 
News Editor 
Although the Social Security sys­tem is iR real trouble , Robert A. Be­ck, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Prudential Insurance Co., said that short and long-term solu­tions exist and that their conse­quences would not be severe. 
Such solutions include gradually increasing the retirement age to 68, encouraging private retirement plans, and eliminating the use ofthe Consumer Price Index as a basis for yearly benefit increases. 
Beck, a member of President Reagan's National Commission on Social Security Reform, addressed the Saint Mary's College Business As­sociates last wednesday evening to discuss this reform and to recom­mend changes he feels are necessary to keep the system financially sol­vent.
U.S. Secretary' ofState AlexanderHaig leaves 10 Downing Street, London, Monday nightfollowing 11 1/2 hours talks with Brittan's Using a slide sh t ow to dramatize Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, concerning the Faulkland Is­his points, Beck quizzed the lands crisis. Haig a,mounced be would be returning to Buenos receptive audience on the present Aires late Monday night in his searchfor a peaceful solution to the state of the system and explained 
crisis. ( AP Laserpboto) why these problems need im-
Transplant recipient 
HPC creates fund for NDgraduate 
Social Security 
Beck outlines needed changes 
By CAROL CAMP 
StaffReporter 
Election of the HPC 
representatives to the Student 
Senate and the establishment of a 
fund for a 1981 Notre Dame 
graduate who is receiving a heart 
transplant were the major agenda 
items at last night's HPC meeting in 
Carroll Hall. 
Each year, HPC members elect three of their colleagues to represent them as members of the Student Senate. In addition to the HPC chairman, they serve as liaisons between the Senate and the HPC. Af­ter giving brief speeches describing their qualifications and goals, Brian Callahan (Keenan), John Gallagher (Pangborn), and Jim Leous (Cava­naugh) were chosen by HPC mem­bers to serve as their Senate representatives during the '82-'83 year. 
Howard Hall residentJim D'Maria addressed the HPC, requesting that the hall presidents join together in a campus effort to raise money for for­mer Howard Hall resident and 1981 NO grad Tom Peruccio. According to D'Maria, Peruccio has a heart con­dition as a result ofa virus which he contracted during his sophomore year. Due to a recent bout with pneumonia, Peruccio's heart has been weakened to the extent that he needs a heart transplant. 
After describing Peruccio's condi­tion, D'Maria asked the HPC mem­bers to take special collections at their dorm masses, and to encourage the student body to contribute to the fund at the dining halls this week. 
Donations for the fund will be ac-



NDdorms to receive emergency lighting 
By CAROL CAMP 
StaffReporter 
According to Student Affairs Vice President, Fr. John Van Wolvlear, the dorms which experienced power blackouts recently are being provided with emergency lighting. 
After the power blackout oc­curred in several North Quad dorms on Saturday, April 3, Van Wolvlear addressed the problem by personal­ly walking through each of the af­fected dorms (Farley, Breen-Phillips, Cavanaugh, Zahm, amd Lewis) in order to inspect their emergency lighting facilities. Upon discovering that only three of the dorms had emergency lighting, Van Wolvlear detailed the problem in a letter to Fire Safety Director Jack Bland. 
Bland's response to Van Wolvlear's April 5 letter ack­
nowledges that a definite problem exists as far as emergency lighting is concerned, and that the University is taking the steps necessary to rectify the situation. According to Bland, safety retrolifts, appropriate emer­gency lighting, and exit signs have already been installed in Sorin Walsh, Badin, St. Ed's, amd Carroll. ' 
Additionally, Bland acknowledges the need for such improvements to be made elsewhere on campus. Al­though Lewis has not yet been scheduled for retrofitting, Farley and Breen-Phillips will be repaired in the summer of 1983. 
Other items noted by Bland in­clude the need for repair in St. Ed's Cavanaugh, and Zahm. "We are aware that it is a problem, amd something will be done to correct it," Van Wolvlear noted. "We are trying to get the halls up to the proper safety standards." 
cepted on Peruccio's behalf by Howard Hall president Tom Connal­ly until Sunday evening. 
Another item of interest was the announcement of the revival of·the traditional pig roast during An Tostal week. This annual event was discon~ tinued three years ago and is now being revived through the efforts of Jay McCann, a student supervisor at South Dining Hall. 
mediate att~ntion. . 
He surpnsed most ofthe audtence by saying that current retirees will receive benefits equal to their total 
contributions  in  only eighteen  
months.  
"Beneficiaries  under  Social  

Security have been led to believe they paid for ther own benefits which simply is not true. The likelihood is that one or both mem­bers of a couple will live at least twenty-five years to receive their benefits, and they have received all their contributions back in eighteen months." 
To dramatize ths fact, Beck pointed out that in 1950, there were over 16 workers supporting each So­cial Security beneficiary, whereas today three workers support the same burden. 
"In the beginning, there were a very small number of beneficiaries," said Beck, "but we hava an increas­ing portion of the population becoming elderly. The program it­selfis maturing and we're just begin­ning to recognize the costs of it." 
Beck explained that the increased scope of Social Security, along with the increased life expectancy of America's workers -now four years longer than in 1935 -have created most of the problems. 
In addition, he said that while incomes have risen thirty percent over the last three years, Social Security payments have increased forty percent because ofindexing. 
The solution does not lie in using general revenue to finance the program, according to Beck. He asked, "Where do those who recom­mend the use of general revenue believe that money will come from? This is an imprudent suggestion to solve a very severe financing problem. There are no general revenues available." 
"The two options," Beck said, "are 
to increase taxes or control 
oenefits." Beck charted the history 
of Social Security tax increases, and 
even with the scheduled hikes com 
ing up, he feels the revenue "will be 
insufficient" to satisfy futun· 
demand. 
"We believe the best solution is to control future benefit growth in­creases. Changes need not be and should not be precipitous. Gradual changes can be made which need not and must not reduce benefits of those now receiving them. Benefits should not be reduced for those retiring soon, and we still have time to take this kind of action provided we move this year," said Beck. 
Beck proposed several short-term changes, among them eliminating the use ofthe Consumer Price Index (CPI) -which he feels is itself In­flationary -as the basis for benefit increases. 
"Among the reasonable al­ternatives to consider, we believe, is limiting the increases to wage in­creases at the very least." 
In addition, Beck favors eliminat­ing windfall benefits for government employees, revising the disability program, and putting the Social Security fiscal year on the same fiscal year as the government's, thereby saving $1 5 million over a period of five years. 
"We strongly recommend gradual increases in the retirement age to age 68. We recommend beginning this between the years 1990 and the year 2000 and do it a month a year -gradually phase it in. This has wide support and is recommended by every major study group that has exam,ined the issue." 
See CHANGES, page 4 
Confusion surrounds financial aid 
By RICH COLLIS 
News Staff 
For some 5000 Notre Dame students, home town banks provide valuable financial aid in the form of Guaranteed Student Loans. These loans, ranging as high as 52500 are presently guaranteed to any student who can show sufficient need. However, the definition of sufficient varies from school to school, state to state and bank to bank. 
Earlier this year, the Observer ran a story stout Ed Sheeran, a freshman from Jamesville, New York. Last year, the University okayed his application for a GSL from the New York State Higher Education Services Corporation (NYSHESC) through the New York Bank for Savings. The loan was 
WE·D-NES-DAY­
processed and 
sent to Sheeran 
last fall. In the in­


QCUS
terim, however, he also received a full ROTC scholarship, which paid for tuition and books and included a S100 a month living allowance. 
According to federal regulations, the Notre Dame Financial Aid Office is required to notify the lending institution and/or the state agency of changes in a stu­dent's financial status. This is what Notre Dame did. Sheeran used the check to pay for room and board, with only $670 left over. 
It was here that the problems began. Notre Dame seemed to think that the New York bank wished to have the extra money returned. In fact, Fr. Joseph Carey, Sheeran's financial aid counselor, said that it was not only a federal offense to keep the money, but that Sheeran was morally obligated to offer the money back. The Sheern family then went to the bank to ask ifhe wa'i so required. 
When reached for comment, Carey denied having made the statement and declined further comment on any part of the matter. 
The NYSHESC decided that Sheeran's eligibility did not change for this year, and informed the bank. The bank, in the person of Mrs. Lore Salata, then replied to Sharon Veith another financial aid counselor in a letter dated March 10: "The student's loan eligibility is based on the date that the school certified the information and cannot be altered after the loan has been disbursed." 
The confusion of the Notre Dame Financial Aid Department is easy to understand. Some states do re­quire that any money above and beyond tuition, room and board and books be returned to the bank. Other states, like Illinois and New York, will allow the excess amount to be put on account and drawn by the student as cash. Some states, like Pennsylvania, also allow this, but have individual banks which ask for the money back. 
According to Ms. Veith, this occurence is not unusual at Notre Dame. Since loan applications are processed In May orJune, but certain sources ofaid including ROTC and athletic scholarships are not determined until the summer or early fall, some students' eligibilities change. 
After the school okays an application, It goes to the student's bank, which in turn forwards it to the state agency. The state then okays the loan fairly routinely. The bank next has the student sign a promissory note and proceeds to send the check to the school. 
Sometimes the check Is made out to the school, sometimes the student and sometimes to both. It Is dis­bursed either in one lump sum or divided each semes­ter. Interest rates were 7 percent until a few years ago, when the rate was raised to 9 percent. With the new C\ltbacks In Federal spending, rates may go up to the national rate of 19 percent next year. 
---=--=:---..... :...-=--.· 




NewsBrieb 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
u.s. Secretary ofState Alexander M. Haigjr. broke 
offa six-day diplomatic shuttle yesterday and flew home to tell Presi­dent Reagan about unspecified "new ideas" for avertng a British­Argentine war over the Falkland Islands. Haig said he would resume his peace mission soon, returning to the Argentine capital ofBuenos Aires. But he sounded a note ofgrowing anxiety as Britain andArgen­tina remained in apparent deadlock over which country's flag will fly in the South Atlantic archipelago. "The whole situation .. .is dan­gerous and is becoming increasingly so. Therefore, there is great urgency to find a political solution," Haig said after his latest round of talks with British officials. In the Atlantic, a British naval force of some 40 ships continued its southward course toward the disputed islands, now just a week's sail away. T1e Argentines made no effort to challenge the British 200-mile naval blockade of the islands, begun Sunday night. -AP 
Ronald Reagan isn't the first ~resident w dangle the prospect oftuition tax credits before Catholic educators and parents ofchildren in private schools. But his plan to revive that campaign promise already is clouded by a r.ecord budget deficit and constitu­tional issues that remain sticky as ever. The president plans to unveil his plan Thursday in a speech to the National Catholi Education As­sociation in Chicago. White House aides say Reagan will ask for tax credits of up to SSOO for parents of the nation's 5 million private school students. The pl:m will be phased in over three years, climb­ing to the $500 maximum, and families with income over a certain level -perhaps $50,000 -would be ineligible, according to sources who asked not to be identified. The association Reagan will address represents 10,000 Catholic schools with 3.5 million stu­dents. President Richard Nixon told the same group he was "irrevocably committed" to tlndways to help nonpublic schools. ­
AP 

A team ofMBA studentsrepresenting the Univer­sity ofNotre Dame won the 1982 Notre Dame Invitational MBA Case Competition on Tuesday, April 6 at the Center for Continuing Education. The Notre Dame team consisted ofThomas Anderson of 
\Pelham, N.Y.,john Cole ofShaftsbury, Vt., and Peter Eaton ofDuluth, Minnesota Notre Dame competed against teams representing the Universities of Ohio State, Missouri and Illinois. Each team had 24 
hours to prepare the 40-page "Charles River Breeding Laboratories" business policy case. Each case was presented to a distinguished panel ofjudges including Dr. Richard Hodgetts, Professr ofManage­ment at Florida International University as head judge, Dr. Walter Goldstein, Vice President of Research and Development at Miles Laboratories, Michael Longua, Director of Corporate College Rela­tions at johnson & Johnson; George Wardeberg, Vice President of Sales at Whirlpol Corporation; and Craig Watson, Director of Inter­national Strategic Planning at Cummins Engine Company. Dean Frank K Reilly ofthe College ofBusinessAdministration and Profes­sor Paul F. Conway, the faculty coordinalOr, both expressed their hope and expectation that the event becomes an annual one at Notre Dame. -The Observer 
All 27 Americans aboard a u.s. Air Force transport were killed Tuesday when the plane exploded in the air, burst into flames and crashed in mountainous eastern Turkey, a Turkish military spokesman said. The cause of the crash, some 250 miles west ofthe Soviet border, was not immediately known. The spokes­man said the C-130 crashed 55 miles west of the city of Erzincan, near the village of Gevencik, and that there were no survivors. He said Turkish rescue teams had been sent to the crash site. All the victims were believed to be military personnel, he reported. U.S. officials at first said 28 people were aboard the C-130, including civilian Pentagon employees. But later, an American military spokes­man at the NATO airbase at lncirlik in southern Turkey said there were 10 crew members and 17 passengers aboard the plane. He made no specific mention of civilians. He said the plane was on a routine supply run to U.S. military personnel based in eastern Turkey. -AP 
A witness in. a tederai embezzlement probe was found shot to death in an alley yesterday, and police said they believed she was the woman abducted a day earlier from a rooftop garage by a gunman who killed three CBS employees when they tried to help her. The woman, found face down and shot in the back of the head, was identified by the FBI as Margaret Barbera, 34. She had been inter­viewed by agents investigating the company for which she worked, Candor Diamond Corporation, according to FBI spokesman joseph Valiquette. Police said she appeared to be the same person who was abducted in a van from the West Side Manhattan parking lot where the men were chased down and shot one by one Monday evening. "The results ofour investigation are being turned over to New York police for use in their homicide investigation," Valiquette said. He described the FBI probe as "a white collar crime type investigation 
involving accounting methods, that kind ofthing." -AP 
A middle-age woman said prayer gave her the strength to lift a large automobile four inches off her unconscious son while neighbors came to rescue him. Angela Cavallo, who is in her late SO's and is a grandmother, said her son Tony was working beneath his I964 Chevrolet Impala when the bumper jack slipped and the car fell on him, knocking him out. She said she lifted the·car about four inches but was unable to rouse her son, a high school junior. "I was kicking him, saying, 'Get out, get out,"' she said in an interview Monday. Mrs. Cavallo held the car, whilejohnny Edwards, II, who was visiting his grandparents next door, rushed down the street and found two neighbors who reinserted the jack and dragged out the teen-ager. The youth was taken to a hospital here Friday and transferred to another in nearby Decatur, where a neurologist found no brain damage. He was allowed to go home Easter Sunday. -AP 
Mostly sunny and warmtoday. Highs upper 50s and low 6os. Fair and cool tonight. Lows mid to upper 40s. Partly sunny and warm tomorrow. Highs upper 6os to low 70s. -AP 

Wednesday, April'14, 1982 -page 2 

Falkland crisis deceptive 


The world has another crisis to worry about, one so seemingly unimportant that few, if any, of our strategic experts saw it building until it suddenly ex­ploded upon us. As we are learning once again, no site is so remote, no issue so trivial that it does not carry the seed ofserious trouble. 
-a recentDenver Post editorial 
The present crisjs between Great Britain and Argen­tina over the South Atlantic Falkland 1slands would be 
· trivial, indeed, ifit did not carry with it a great potential for danger. The situation has taken on a certain tragicomic appeal -cartoonists are having a heyday presenting lone shepherds on barren reefs surrounded by British and Argentine destroyers -as time rapidly slips away. 
The conflict exploded upon the international scene April 2 with the pre-dawn, 4000-man Argentine inva­sion of the Falklands. The Argentines immediately claimed sovereignty over the Falklands and their dependencies, South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands. 
The conflict had its beginnings in December when Argentine President Gen. Leopoldo Fortunato Galtieri I" vowed to gain control of the islands. The British had ample warning of what the 
Argentines planned, but · 
since the days of ·dictator chose to ignore the situa­juan Peron. tion. The Argentine offense Afterwards, in a flurry of was also based on greed and criticism that led to the tales of "promising oil and resignation of British natural gas discoveries" by 
Foreign Secretary Lord Car­geologists exploring the is­
rington, British Prime Minis­lands. ter Margaret Thatcher, The entire conflict is an defending herself, said "The example of a silly situation 
cost (of attempting to getting out ofhand. With the prevent such an invasion) natural resource potential 
would be enormous." 

The United States, meanwhile, is in the all-too­frequent position of being caught in the middle. President Reagan spent SO minutes on the phone with Galtieri on the eve of the invasion, in an attempt to discourage the use offorce. As of yesterday, Secretary of State Alexander Haig had traveled almost 20,000 miles in five days of shuttle, diplomacy between London and Buenos Aires in an ef­fort to reach a compromise. 
The British stubbornly refuse to negotiate a com­promise until the Argentines withdraw from the islands. This stance is fruitless for several reasons. First, an Ar­gentine withdrawal would not be a compromise, but a victory for the British. And an acknowledged defeat for the Argentines. Secondly, the Argentines have posses­sion ofthe islands, and at least for the present, the upper hand in the conflict. The Argentines have 9000 men stationed on the main island; the British are sendingon­ly 2000 with the task force. Numbers alone make a 
· ,British recapture of the islands realistically impossible. The British must accept the fact that things can never return to the !\tate in which they were before the inva­sion, and should concentrate on working on a com­
: April15-18, 1982 : : TICKETS on sale NOW at : : Student Union Box Office : : SMC Programming Office: 
: $3.00 Reserved Seating only : 
: NEARLY SOLD OUT :
• 
FOOTBALLCONCESSION STANDS Oubs, Organizations, Hall Governments have until Friday, Apri116 to apply for a locationfor the 1982 football season. Halls and Classes will be guaranteed a 
stand only ifthey apply. Allother clubs and organizations will go into a lottery Notification ofwinners willbe the followin_g_ 
week. Applications are available in t1(~ ~ Student Activities Office.. ~ 
' 
Design Editor ................... Deirdre Murphy Design Assistants ....................Joe Flowers Typesetters ............................. Bruce Oakley Tom MacLennan Night News Editor ................. Dave Sarphie Copy Editors ...........,.....,Maureen O'Toole Diane Dirkers Features Layout.......................... Tim Neely Tari Brown Sports Copy Editor Chris "Dr.]" Needles Typists: ......,...,.,..., ................... !.aura Degnan Betsy Porter Tim Nealy ND Day Editor.....................Joe Musemeci SMC Day Editor ............... Toni Rutherford Ad Deslgn ................................... )ohn & Bob Photographer,.,.......,................. Rudy Perez Guest Appearances, .............. Mick Stagger Rabbit & Turtle bearing gifts Victory (finally) for the Herd BiU "My JCL works" Quard "Yes they're real. (No they can't be.) Yes they are. I've seen them walking, out beyond the wooded garden, through the town and through the valley,"  
The Observer (USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacation penods The Observer 1s published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary s Col· lege. Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnhng The Observer. P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. Indiana 46556.  

promise from there. 
There has been much booing and protesting directed tOward the U.S. by the Argentines since the confli<.;_t started. This is ironic because, as far as compromise ef­forts are going, the U.S. is the only country that is trying to help solve the crisis. And secondly, the vast majority of the Argentine arms and equipment are American­made. 
Undoubtedly, the welfare ofthe 1800 British subjects that inhabit the islands was not a priority in the Ar­gentine invasion. The Argentine government is seizing upon this foreign diversion to unify the country and draw attention trom a shaky domestic political situa­tion. The economic problems in-Argentina include an inflation rate of 143 percent and an unemployment rate of I 3 percent. This effort has largely succeeded, produc· ing an outburst of patriotic fervor such as has not been witnessed in that country 
uncontlrmed, the situation 
borders on the ridiculous. A 
few islands inhabited by 
1800 Englishmen and 700,000 sheep are not reason enough to go to war. So deeply embroiled in the conflict, the Argentines must realize this. Through greed they have backed them­selves into a dangerous corner from which there is now no retreat. 
Growing threats ofwar aside, the colonist intentions of both countries are obscuring the basic right of the Falkland inhabitants to choose their own government. Ironically, this may not be either the British or the Ar­gentine government. Britain, 8000 miles from the Falklands, can hardly provide the best form of govern­ment for the islands. And Argentina is embroiled in such internal strife that it could never hope to administer a beneficial government for the Falklands. What no one seems to realize it that perhaps the islanders could best rule themselves and should be granted immediate in­dependence if they so desire. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views ofthe author, and do not necessarily represent the views ofThe Observer or its editorial board. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-------------------­

The Observer 
ND 's highest honor 

Archbishop receives Laetare 
By N.D. Infonnation Services 
Cardinal John Francis Dearden, the retired Archbishop of Detroit and a major figure in the post­Vatican II renewal of the American Catholic Church, has been named the 1982 recipient of the Laetare Medal, the University of Notre Dame's hlg best honor and the oldest and most prestigious award for · American Catholics. 
Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, presi-. dent of the University, announced the selection ofCardinal Dearden on March 20. Dearden is the first mem­ber of the American Catholic hierarchy to receive the honor, which has been conferred for the lao;t 99 years on distinguished American Catholics. 
Laetare Medalists have included diplomat Clare Boothe l.uce; Peace Corps founder Sargent Shriver; Dorothy Day, founder of the Cath­olic Worker movement; actress llelen Hayes; and Thomas P. "Tip" O'Neill, Speaker of the House of Representatives. l.a~t year's Laetare Medal was awarded to former U.S. Senator and Secretary of State Ed­mund S. Muskie. 
"Perhaps no other Church leader hao; been a'i responsible as Cardinal John Dearden for liberating the talents, energies and charisma of lay American Catholics," Hesburgh said. "It is appropriate that the I.aetare Medal, which was until 1973 reserved for the honor of outstand· ing Catholic laypeople, be given to a Cardinal who has enriched the life of the whole Church by cultivating, encouraging, and elevating their in­dispensible ministry." 

Dearden's influence on the Second Vatican Council, in which he participated in every session from 1962 to 1965, shaped some of the Council's most innovative docu­ments, especially the Pastoral Con­stitution on the Church in the Modern World. At the Council, and in the Synods of Bishops in Rome in 1967, 1969, 1971, and 1974, he was an outspoken advocate of increased recognition and development of the role ofthe laity in the mission of the Church. 

Cardinaljohn Frances Dearden Laetare Medalist 

He hosted, in Detroit in 1976, the Call to Action Conference, an un­precedented consultation of American Catholic bishops, priests, religious, and laypeople. 
In his opening address to the con­ference, Dearden articulated his vi­sion of lay ministry. "We must carry what we receive in and from the Church into the marketplace," he said, "there to redeem all of human 
Article claims Nixon often drunk in White House 
BOSTON (AP) -Richard M. Nixon was often so drunk In the White House that when latenlght cables arrived Henry A Kissinger would tell aides, "There's no use walc.ing him up -he'd be in­coherent," says an article inAtJantic 
Monthly. 
The article in the May issue ofAt­lantic also says that Kissinger regarded his chief aide, Alexander 
M. Haigjr., as "a double-dealer who had ingratiated himself with Nixon 
Atlantic's article is drawn from a book by Hersch that is to be published early next year. The author, winner of the 1970 Pulitzer Prize for his reporting on the My Lai massacre in Vietnam, interviewed many former White House aids and said he obtained access to un­published records of the Watergate prosecutors. A number of the anecdotes quote second-or third­hand sources. 

life by participating and sharing in the struggles of humankind for dig­nity, justice, peace and liberation. And what we learn there, in the midst ofstruggle and work, we must carry back to the community, to share the experience, to reflect upon it, to make our Christian life in ~he world a source ofenrichment." 
Cardinal Dearden was born in Val­ley Falls, R.I., on October 15, 1907, the eldest ofJohn and Angela Dear­den's five children. The Deardens moved to Cleveland in 1918, where their oldest son attended parochial schools before entering St. Mary's Seminary. 
In 1928, Dearden enrolled in the North American College in Rome. Four years later, he was ordained and received a doctorate in sacred theology from the Pontifical Gregorian University in Rome. 
Returning to the United States, he worked as assistant pastor ofSt. Mary Parish in Thiensville, Ohio, and as professor of philosophy and rector at his old seminary until 1948, when he was made Coadjutor Bishop of Pittsburgh. He served as the Bishop of Pittsburgh from 1950 to 1958, when Pope John XXlll named him Archbishop of Detroit. 
When the National Conference of Catholic Bishops was formed in 1966, Dearden was elected its first president. Pope Paul VI elevated him to the rank of Cardinal in 1969, and he voted in the conclaves which elected Popes john Paul I and john Paul II. 
Pope john Paul II accepted his re­quest for resignation of his archdiocesan office in 1980. 
This is the second time the Uni­versity of Notre Dame has honored Dearden, who in 1967 received an honorary degree here. 
The Laetare Medal, which is awarded every year on the fourth Sunday ofLent ( Laetare Sunday), has been presented to 80 men and 22 women since 1883. The idea for the honor was conceived by Notre Dame professor james Edwards, who proposed an American coun­terpart ofthe "Golden Rose," a papal honor which antedates the eleventh. century. 
The idea was enthusiastically sup­ported by Fr. Edward Sorin, Notre Dame's founder and first president, and, through the years, recipients of the medal have been selected by a committee chaired by the presid~nt ofthe University. 
and (H.R.) Haldeman and other 
senior aides by savaging Kissinger 
behind his back and spying on him." 

The author, Seymour M. Hersh, paints a portrait ofa duplicitous Kis­singer, then national security ad­viser to Nixon, who was "more and more subservient, eve~t fawning, to his patron" but "increasingly vicious and outspoken outside the Oval Office." 
The article quotes Roger Morris, a member of the National Security Council staff under Nixon, as saying he often listened in on conversa­tions between Kissinger and "an ob­viously drunk Nixon." 

Morris was frightened by the idea of a president who was not fully competent after sundown. He often wondered what would happen ifthe Soviet Union attacked at night. 
The Associated Press made: four attempts yesterday to contact Mor­ris at two Santa Fe, N.M., numbers where Hersh said the former NSC aide: could be reached. There was no 
an~wer. 

Hersh writes that by the end of 1969, Nixon's first year in the presidency, the backbiting had grown intense. He says this is what Kissinger was telling associates: 
"Mel Laird (Secretary of Defense) was a megalomaniac who constantly leaked anti-Kissinger stories to the press; and Richard Nixon was a secret drunk of dubious intel­ligence." 


Wednesday, April14, 1982-page 3 

. ~­
THE SCHOLARSHIPTHA'ItPAYS . .YOUR WAYINTO A CAREER~ 
. . 
~ 
If a two-year scholarship that leads to a job after gradua­
tion sounds good to you, here's your chance. 
If you are a college sophomore, you can earn a scholar­ship worth upto$_20,000Naval ROTC pays full tuition during your junior and senior years, books, fees, and living expenses of $100 a month for ten months each year. 
To qualify, you must have above a C average 1:1-.S:: out of 
4.0) or better. You must pass a Navy physical examination. And it helps if your major is math, science or engineering. The deadline for application is May 6,1982 Contact local Navy Recruiter or see the Professor of .Naval Science I on your campus. 
Bavy Officer Scholarship Prograas 8 78 B. Pennsylvania, Bm. 6t6 Indianapolis, IB t620' 
1-800-882-9404 (toll free)or 317-169-6181 (cal collect) 



LOVERBOY 
With Special Guest 
~ 
FRIDAY, APRIL 16 8 pm ACC-Notre Dame Univ. South Bend, Indiana · Tickets $9 and 10. Reserved Seats. 
T•ckets ava•lable at A C C Box olttce. Robertson's on South Bend and Concord Mall. Elkhan Truth. Forst Source Bank (maon olf>Ce) St Joseph Bank (ma>n olf•ce). and Suspended Chord on Elkhart 
Produced by Contemporary with Sunshine 

!HIS FKIDAYII 

--------~-----------------------------------------------------------w 
The Observer Wednesday, April 14, 1982 -page 4 
Open house 

SMC offers highschoolworkshop 

Tryouts, April 18-21 






ICELANDAIR INTRODUCES 
IIEW BARGAIN FIRES TO 

MORE OF EUROPE. 
WIEM.R8 PARIS_______, 



-•581 
.IDTIIP 1-DTRIP 
FROM CHICAGO FROM CHICAGO 
ZIIIICII FIIIHFURT

•598 •557 

-IDTRIP -IDTRIP 
FROM CHICAGO FROM CHICAGO 
All Apex Fare.: April I-May 14. 19H2. 7·90 day otay (7-60 days Luxem­boura). Stopovers pe-rm,\te-d m both dtre-cuon•. 14 day advance purchase required. Seata limoted. Ask about our low cost Normal, Sam• Day. and Group tarrs, too. 
ALSO LOW COST CONNECTING SERVICE TO NICE AND AMSTERDAM. 
lcelandair to L!&embourg. Luxair or Crossair connecting service 
to other destin~tions. 
• 
Confirmed reservation. • Free wine with dinner, cognac after. 

• 
Bargain Stopover Tours of Iceland and Luxembourg. • Bargain car rentals. • Purchase tickets in U.S. • All fares subject to change and government approval. 


See your trdvel a~ee-ntur call8001555-1212 for the toll free lrelandatr number m ~·our area. 
ICELANDAIR~ 
NOW MORE THAN EVER YOUR BEST VALUE TO EUROPE 


ByJACK AMARO 
News Staff 
This Saturday, April 17, Saint Mary's College will be offering its second open house of the semester. "Spring Day on Campus", sponsored by the Admissions Office of SMC, will provide ali-day workshops for high school juniors on admissions and career development at St. Mary's. 
The day will also include an academic open house, where the juniors will be able to talk to selected college profesors and cur­rent students about the academic environment at St. Mary's. Other ac­tivities will include a student-guided tour of the facilities and individual admission information sessions for the juniors interested in the par­ticularities of this procedure. 
Ms. Kate Simonds, coordinator of the activity, explained the impor­tance ofthe day for the college. "We have done research of our accepted students and it has proven that a visit to St Mary's is a big factor in the stu­dent's decision to come here. This open house will provide an oppor­tunity for high school students from Indiana, Illinois, Michigan and Ohio to experience our campus." 
The open house will not try to go "really deeply" into all the charac­teristics of St Mary's, but "it will stress St. Mary's vital differences from other institutions". 
Notre Dame-St. Mary's as a college community will not be stressed. According to Simonds, it will con­centrate in "presenting St. Mary's College as an exceptional institution where a woman can get a good education, while at the same time, not denying the common bond be­tween the two colleges". 
The open house will offer a vol­leyball tournament in the Angela Athletic Facility, art demonstrations in the lower level ofMoreau Hall and a music recital in the Uttle Theater, all between 2:30 and 4:00. 

Tenthyear 

Council celebrates coeducation 
By ROBERT WALSH 
News Staff 
The Women's Advisory Council is planning four consecutive days of activities beginning this Sunday, marking the culmination often years ofcoeducation at Notre Dame. 
The events begin on Sunday, with both a special brunch and dinner to be held in South Dining Hall. "Both men and women are invited to this and all the functions," said Meg Klin­genburger, chairperson of the Ad­visory Council. "We are celebrating a decade of coeducation at Notre Dame, not just ten years ofenrolling women." 
Also planned for Sunday is an 8:30 PM mass at Sacred Heart Church with Fr. Hesburgh as celebrant, and a reception in Walsh Hall afterwards. 
Among other activities during the week are a multimedia illm featuring eight of the over 2500 female alumna of Notre Dame since 1972, as well as other receptions. 
The conclusion of the Distin­guished American Women Lecture Series with two guest speakers will also highlight the week. Jean Wilkowski, a career diplomat in tl;c 
U.N. wit11 speak on Monday, April19. On Wednesday, Helen Flaherty, President ofthe National Leadership Conference of Women Religious, will conclude the lecture series at the library auditorium. 
"The lecture series has been very successful with excellent student turnouts." said Klingenburger. "The council attempted to present women from different fields, such as religious, theatre, and the news media The speakers gave excellent presentations and shared their ooinions with us." 
"The Advisory Council was or­ganized a year after Notre Dame began admitting women," con­tinued Klingenburger. "Throughout our existence we have tried to help the administration in the coeduca­tional transformation by pointing out the various needs of women, from better security to the im­plementating ofTitle IX." 
"With the enrollment ratio at five 
to two from once 20 to one, we are 
glad ofthe progress and hope to con­
tinue this process and in effect aid 
both men and women at Notre 
Dame." 
... Changes 
policy for the nation that resembles a "three-legged stool -one leg is Social Security, one leg is private pensions, and one leg is private savings." He applauded the 1981 legislation permitting universal In­dividual Retirement Accounts ( IRAs) as a proper step to take to "alleviate the pressure of the over­
''Neuer again will/ sit on the sidelines. I want to be in there,~-" 
continued from page 1 
Beck also said that he favors making the Social Security program mandatory among all federal, state, and local government workers who can currently option out of the sys­tem. 
Finally, Beck proposed a pension 
A.t Outward Bound it's not ftjust what you do, but how you feel about it afterwards that counts. 
Our courses are tough-they're 
meant to be-but not beyond the 
reach of anyone who tries. 
They're fun. And safe as human 
ingenuity and experience can 
make them. 
At Outward Bound we teach 
you outdoor skills. From winter 
camping to mountaineering. 
Everyone brings something different to Outward Bound and takes something different away. But whatever your experience­we guarantee it won't be trivial. 
Outward Bound is a nonprofit, nondiscriminatory organization. 
burdened Social Security system." 
I 
~Outward Bound! 
:<atr.JlDa 
§-o~ For mformation and brochure: 
0 • ,..;,. 503-243-1993
d 
..f... 
Name ----------------------­
Address -------------------­City_______________________ 
State_________.Zip --------­
Northwest Outward Bound School 0110 S.W Bancroft St.. Portland, OR 97201. 

-------------· 




Editorials 
Wednesday, Apri114, 1982-pageS 

The trouble with conservatives 
Though it has been quiet lately, there is nothing wrong with the way tal accumulation in this country (in the debate between 'liberals' and things are, and things would be bet­world history to be exact) is grossly 'conservatives' is the pre-eminent ter if they could go back to the way unjust: it is a legacy of intimidation controversy in American politics. things were. and subterfuge. There is a fundamental difference Listen to Ronald Reagan: "We When conservatives speak of between the two factions, and in must undo 50 years of mistakes," jealously and wanting to 'replay the many ways the chasm is paralysing implying that the way things were game after it's over' in redistribu· the government. The current con­prior to 1930 was more desirable tion, they are ignoring the fact that troversy ha.'> been noticeable be· than the way they are today. Reagan such post facto awareness of posi­cause there has not been much seemingly refers to the days of"free· tion goes both ways: Conservatives 
market" (or robber baron, depend­who wish to preserve the economic ing on your point of view) status quo also know who 'won' the
Anthony Walton 
capitalism, with its wanton exploita­lottery, and are just as guilty of wan­tion of the working classes, the en­ting to preserve the lottery because

Outside Wednesday 
vironment, and the rights of other they know they won. sidles and food stamps? means policy of, by, and for the rich, actual diffe(ence in ruling theories businesses to compete. Conservatism implies that there is What's the difference berween at the expense of the rest. It is a over the last four decades. Nixon One of the principle defenders of an elite group of 'victors' who, be· pork barrel projects such as Howard legacy of greed and selfishness that 
was a Keynesian, Kennedy had his conservative theory, Milton Fried­cause of their victories, know what Baker's Clinch Rive( Breeder Reac· is fundamentally opposed to the share of dirty laundry and was not man, stakes his defense of conser­is best for the others. tor and federal job programs such as goals of the founding fathers, who nearly as progressive as was vatism on an argument using The most powerful criticism is CETA? The difference is the con· founded this country in a spirit of supposed, Carter wa.~ more of a personal liberty as the ultimate that even die-hard 'conservatives' stituencies they serve, and the brotherhood and cooperation. Con· Republican than Democrat, and basis. Friedman states that in a mini­like Reagan and jesse Helms and power ofthose constinuencies. That servativism corrupts those goab. Eisenhower and johnson presided mal state free-market economy, Strom Th~rmond, are not really con­is why tobacco subsidies and pork That is not rhetoric, and it is not 
over eras ofsuch universal domestic there exists a sort of natural 'lottery' servatives. In fact, they're down barrel projects survive budget cuts right. prospc:rily that ideological dif. where all are free to compete, and as right socialists at times. What's the while food stamps and CET A suffer. ferences were ultimately irrelevant. all have the right to compete, the difference between those two And that shows the true meaning of 
But that changed in 1980. For the results are just. Conservatives staples of 'welfare,' tobacco sub-American 'conservatism' which Next week: The Case for Liberalism. 11rst time in recent memory a presi· defend this theory by saying that dent with addinite, doctrinaire ide!· those in favor of economic ogy wa.~ elected. redistribution are so inclined be­

P.O.BoxQ 
And a.~ they say, the rest is history. cause they 'lost' the lottery and Or may be history. Ronald Reagan know they lost, and are jealous. An­ha.'> tried to enact a revolution in the other prominent consc.rvative has 
American press overlooks Nicaragua
role of government in American referred to redistribution as society; it will probably not be suc­"idealizing envy." DearEditor: months, El Salvador and Guatemala would have gone to Nicaragua's 11sh· cessful (not politically or as policy) The ultimate question (to an un· have found their way to the front ing industry; and covert CIA activity 
I am a Notre Dame junior current· pages. Yet there has been very little in the country, including funneling
hut the attempt calls attention to the biased observer) in any political or theory underlying the Reagan economic situation would deal with ly studying in Mexico. In the few coverage ofevents in Nicaragua, and funds to "moderate" groups which revolution, conservatism. the justice of the situation. The months since I have been here, it has what there has been is dangerously oppose the government. But per· In a nutshell, conservatism can be status quo must not only answer a become painfully apparent to me misleading. haps the most arrogant action of all described as "the maintainence of question of present-day justice; it that the American media is present­In the summer of 1979, the is the administration's tacit consent 
the status quo." must also answer to historical ques­ing a partial and distorted view of Nicaraguan people won their to the paramilitary training of anti­Conservatives generally believe tions ofacquistion. Much ofthe capi-events in Latin America. In recent freedom after 45 years under the government terrorists in the Florida U.S.-backed Somoza dictatorship. Everglades, in clear violation of 
Since then, the Nicaraguan govern­American Law. ment has struggled to overcome the The Reagan Administration has

P.O.BoxQ 
ravages ofa destructive civil war and justified these bellicose actions by the debts of a dictator who literally pointing to the communist in­robbed the nation blind, leaving the fluence within Nicaragua, as well as




Leftists are true revolutionaries 
treasury empry when he fled the their alledged exportation ofrevolu· country. tion to other countries, including El Dear Editor: ment." It goes something like this: and center are fighting to crush that Today in Nicaragua, things are Salvador. Yet despite its sophistica­Look! Both the extreme right and liberation movement. gradually improving for the people. ted surveillance methods, the ad· 
I have been accused by the editor­the extreme left are doing just Cannot that violence used similar­There is no longer the brutal torture ministration has been unable to in-chief of The Observer as being deplorable things. Both are terrorist. ly yet be very different "because of and terror which characterized the produce a shred of credible "obviously confused." On matters of They are really pretry much the Somoza era, and literacy has im­evidence to substantiate its accusa­
what it is used for?" I should hope 
proved dramatically. An agrarian 1 tions. Furthermore, the Nicaraguan

international politics one would be same. What we need is a nice not a little consideration of history wise to avoid terms like "obviously." moderate, someone like Duarte would indicate drastically different reform program has given formerly government has consistently sought However, it does not surprise me. maybe, but not an extremist. In spite forces (i.e., in goals or programs) unused land to 12,000 landless to remain independant of any 
One often finds "radical" v,iewpoints of its being a compelling metaphor, using equally brutal warfare. families, and nutrition and vaccina­·foreign influence, and in fact four hurriedly dismissed by means of it is positively misleading when it tion campaigns are now reaching top government officials are Roman 
Monk asks why the left has not
simplistic blanket labels. Afterall, comes to the real situation in El Sal­out to even the isolated rural poor. Catholic priests, including foreign
taken power if they have popular
"leftist" positions challenge us to ex­vador. There is a big difference be­All these gains have been made with­Minister Miguel D'Escoto and Minis­
support. They haven't for the same 
amine deep-seated assumptions and tween right and left. A further in an economy which has suffered ter of Culture Ernesto Cardenal. In 
reason the NFL in VietNam couldn't
difference concerns the initiator of from a severe drop in the price of its very attempt to counter Soviet in­that is never easy. 
for 15 years (because of the backing
Mr. Monk correctly states that ter­the violence. And, as the right and exports, coupled with a rise in the fluence in the area, the Reagan ad· 
by the U.S. to the tune ofhundreds of
rorists are small unrepresentative so-called center are programatically prices of imports, aggravating an al· ministration is gradually driving the 
millions of dollars in military aid). 
groups engaged in armed action. He similar (with primarily-tactical dif­ready staggering foreign debt left be­Nicaraguans into the Soviet camp as also notes my evidence that the ferences), while both are Redirecting the question, one must hind by Somoza. they desperately search for FMLN is almost as large as the junta programatically distinct from the consider that the popular front is in Yet, as if the Nicaraguan people do resources with which to rebuild forces. But he construes my argu· left. control of nearly a third of the not have enough problems as they their country and meet the growing ment as being ba.-;ed on the opposi­Both right and center are ded­country and that the junta military struggle to rebuild their shattered American threat. tion of size alone. However, Mr. icated (in cooperation with the U.S.) forces proved incapable ofcrushing country, the Reagan Administration Under the guise of "concern for Monk has forgotten all about the to maintaining the present politico­them despite its enormous military has undertaken a massive campaign democracy", the Reagan Administra­
second adjective economic system -an imperialist aid. Mr. Monk also says I didn't to destabalize and overthrow their tion's blatant hostility has created colony of U.S. trans-nationals. The produce "a shred of evidence" for government. This has included the the very insecurity that has so often
"unrepresentative." Number is relative; what is important is left is seeking to abolish that system. the position of the FDR/FMLN. 1 development of contingency plans in the past contributed to miltaristic, representation of a class. That is the The history of El Salvador since the should like to point out that due to for an invasion ofNicaragua, perhaps anti-democratic policies. If the limited space, quotations from the using proxy troops from Honduras United States really wish to keep the
difference in Marxist terms between 16th century clearly demonstrates that it was not the peasants and In­political platform of the FDR which or Argentina; increased aid to the world safe for democracy, perhaps
acts ofterrorism and a re\•olution.ln dians who started the violence. were originally included in the Honduran military, which has col­they had better recognize the
El Salvador the concrete facts indi­cate the latter. They've been subjected to centuries column were not included. I am wil· laborated with thousands of ex­genuinely democratic Nicaraguan Much of the remainder of Monk's of it by the colonialists. By now, as ling to supply as much documenta­members of Somoza's National government for what it is. attack is throwing up numerous al­the FMLN proclaims, it is revolution tion as you wish, Mr. Monk. Guard in making raids into legations against the FMLN. It is a or death! The left is fighting for in­Nicaraguan territory, killing subtle argument used by almost all dependence from domination by hundreds of people; blocking a S30 Thomas]. Conley jack F. Vogel million loan from the Inter­Arts and Letters
the media (and recently by Father U.S. imperialism and its own resi­Young Socialist Alliance American Development Bank that Cueravaca, Mexico
Hesburgh). I call it "the parity argu· dent capitalist oligarchy. The right 

Editorial Board Department Managers 

The Observer is an independent newspaper published by the students of the 
Editor·in-Chtej.............................. Michael Monk BusinessManager .............................Tony Aiello 

University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily 
Managing Editor..........,.....Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller.............................................Eric Schulz 

reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is report· 
Executive News Editor.........................Kelli Flint Adverttstn$ Manager.......................Chris Owen ed as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of 
SMC News Editor..................... Margaret Fosmoe Production Manager..................Maura Murphy a majority of the Editorial Board. Coanmentaries, opinions and letters are the views 
Sports Editor................................... Chris Needles Circulation Manager ..........................Ray lnglinof their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and 
Editorials Editor .............................Paul McGinn Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakleythe free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, ii cncour!l.&ed. Features Editor ...................................Tari Brown 
Photo Editor...................................Rachel Blount Founded November 3, 1966

P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 {219) 239·5303 


~~S tl0 W C «~liiiiiiiSiiEiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiWeiidniiesdiiayii,
Apiiriliii14iii,liii982iiiiiiipaiiiiigeiiiii6 

Lights up on Cabaret in the making 
This is thefirst halfofofa two­swiftly repeated motions like the 
part article describing the frenetic quirks ofso many wind-up workings andpreparations neces­toys gone haywire. The varying sary fos the production ofa musi­sound blended into the rhythm ofa 
cal stage show. The second half synchronized machine ... will appear In Friday's After an intense run-through of "Showcase" section. the first act at one ofthe final 
rehearsals, Mousseau called a five LuannDeusterbergminute break_ The orchestra . 
rehearsed the song "Maybe This £ Time" while several cast members 1eatures lounged about the stage. A few 

;;iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii voices began to sing the lyrics. A 
A tone ofthe first full-cast nrehearsals in the Lafonune ballroom, vocal director Anita Ramker stood before the singing company, her arms forcefully requesting more volume. The voices launched again into the refrain ofthe opening number. Ramker, a pleased smile on her face, raised her arms high prepar­ing to punch the air for the last note. The voices hit it perfectly. There was a second ofsilence and then, downstairs in the lounge, the studentswho had been studyingor chatting, previously oblivious to the rehearsal upstairs, suddenly broke into spontatneous ap­plause ... 
DirectorJ elf Mousseau called the company into a circle for .varm-up exercises on the stage in Washington Hall. Pulling one cast member into the center, he in­
tructed the actor to begin repeat­ing a single motion -like bending up and down -and accompany it with a single sound -like a gasp, a whistle, or a sigh. More ofthe ~oup were instructed to link up to the actor with their own varied motions and sounds. More joined in, some lying on the floor, some 
.waying like pendulums, their 
few more joined in. Feeling the volume building, others came from off-stage to catch on to the growing kick-line. Soon, almost the 
entire cast was liked arm in arm 
across the stage singing. 
"Where else but the theater 
could you experience moments 
like that?" asked choreographer 
Colleen Quinn observing the sin­
ging group with a smile. 
"It's not the applause that makes 
doing a show so special," said 
technical director Tim Nolan. 
"Perhaps it's the people you 
work with in a show;" mused 
Quinn, "there is a special 
camaradarie here that you just 
don't find anywhere else." 
"It's the idea that, as a director, I have created a show, an illusion," said Mousseau. "and that those are my ideas on that stage when the show is performed." 
On the week-end ofApril 15-18, in Washington Hall, the Notre Dame Student Players will present their production ofCabaret: Their performance will tell the story of the love affair between the exotic Sally Bowles and the American writer Cliff Bradshaw in the cit'y of Berlin in the time before the rise of the Nazi regime. But the real Cabaret story, beyond the illusion, the story ofthe four directors, the cast of 31 members, the orchestra of 21, the backstage crew ofseven, and the production staffoften began some time ago. 

It began as early as December, when plans for the ND Student Players spring musical were first being made. The Student Union had selectedJeff Mousseau to direct the show and Ed McNally to coordinate production. 
Mousseau, after reading several scripts, selected the playCabaret. "Ididn'twant to do a conventional, sentimental, 'Rogers and Ham­merstein type' play," he said. 

"Cabaret was bold and gutsy and 
the plot treated complex issues 
like abortion, sex, and amorality." 
Mousseau then selected the direction staff: Colleen Quinn to choreograph, Anita Ramker to direct the vocals, and Bob O'Donnell to lead the orchestra. McNally also hand-picked the production staff, who would take care ofthe business side ofthe show-Jenny Kucenic, for in­stance, handles the publicity. The cast, however, had to audition. 
In the theatre world, try-outs are generally looked upon with dread by most actors. "It's always in­timidating because there are so many people trying out," said Ora Jones, who was cast as the female 
Riding the flat and boring to ND 
f've driven from Phoenix to Los lAngeles, and encountered end­. ess desert wastelands, winding mountain roads, and omnipresent ·~reen freeway signs pointing out .til 2300 exits into the Los Angeles 
•netropolitan area. I've twice made che short but exhausting trip from :hicago to South Bend, both times on a United Limo bus, and ifI hadn't fallen asleep, I might have discovered a few points ofinterest 
-.tlong the way. Each trip, I swore, had to be the most boring journeyI had ever undertaken. 
Marc Ramirez 
features 

But some records were made to 
be broken. After returning from a 
.vonderful Easter Break in Ken­
tucky, I've decided that there is no 
less exciting trip than the five-hour 
trekfrom Louisville to South Bend. 
There were six ofus doomed to make the unpleasant journey on Monday. Jim, our driver, had brought along a few six-packs of Mello Yello and Mountain Dew to help himselfremain awake during the drive. We drew straws for the remaining seats. Patty, Jim's sister, and my pal Vince drew the two short straws, meaning that they had to ride in the front seat and ac­tuallysee where we were going. I got to ride in the back, but unfor­tunately, I had a window seat. Two guys named Mike and Bill also rode in the back seat. 
We had a good idea ofwhat we were in for_ To make the journey seem a little shorter,we thought of it in two pans: Louisville to In­dianapolis, and Indianapolis to 
South Bend. We would have tried 
more pans, but there was really 
nothing else in between. 
Pan one, from Louisville to In­
dianapolis, was a long stretch of 
highway more than a hundred 
miles in length. For the most pan, 
the road was completely straight, 
and all we could see was flatlands 
in every direction. Green grass. 
Yellow weeds. An occasioniu 
group ofleafless trees. The excite­
ment was building. 
The monotony was suddenly 
broken when Mike shouted, "Look, 
everyone! A hill!" 
We looked, and sure enough, 
there was a hill. Not very big, but a 
hill. It was fascinating, and we had 
to urgeJim to keep his eyes on the 
road. I grabbed my camera and col­
lected a. quick snapshot ofthe hill 
before it disappeared out ofsight. 
Jim then drew our attention by 
.yelping in delight. We glanced 
toward the front, and saw that the 
road actually curved. Jim had the 
biggest grin I had ever seen on his 
face as he turned the steering 
wheel for the first time during our 
trip. I never thought that I'd be 
happy to turn fifteen degrees to the 
right on a highway, but I was. 
But, alas, the thrills were over. 
Interstate 65 went completely 
straight once again, and I spent the 
time counting the "Watch for ICE 
on Bridge" signs as they passed. 
Then the notorious 
"Comparison Course" began, the 
strip ofhighway that compares 
miles to kilometers at selected in­
tervals along a five-mile span. For 
instance, one sign said 0 Ml 
0 KM. Itwas a very educationalex­
perience, and Iwas left thinking of . what the future might hold for 
family driving: "Daddy?" 

"Yes, Junior?" 
"How many kilometers 'til we 
get there?" 
It wasn't long until we reached the first group ofhills. These ones, like the solitary one we had ob­served earlier, weren't very tall. A tiny house sat atop one of them, and there were a few cows grazing on another. I thought that perhaps it was a small farm, but Mike and Bill informed me that it was a ski resort. 
"You oughta see it in winter," they said. "At those heights, there's a ton ofsnow. Great skiing, so we hear." 
I inquired as to the welfare ofthe cows, and was told that they often suffered from nosebleed at such al­titudes. 
I fell asleep when we reached In­dianapolis, but who can blame me? 
When I woke up, we were in beautiful downtown Kokomo, In­diana, and we pulled into a McDonald's for a bite to eat. I'll ad­mit that I had to laugh at a town name such as the one Kokomo was unlucky enough to have; however, I made a serious attempt to con­quer my preconception ofa small, nowhere town. But when I or­dered a Big Mac and they didn't have any made, I had to wonder. 
The ride from Kokomo to South Bend was no different. Flatlands. Green grass. Yellow weeds. An oc­casional cluster oftrees. 
Sometimes it's impossible to avoid doing the things you don't want to do: For the people who live in Louisville and go to school here, this trip is inevitable. Ifyou can't avoid doing something that you don't want to do, then make the best ofit. And hope you don't have to pass through Kokomo. 
lead Sally Bowles. "At the first try­outs for Cabaret, we all had to per­form a one minute dance in groups offive. Ofcourse, the worst was having to sing pan ofthe song "Cabaret" solo. But then, we had to choose a character -one girl chose Glinda the good witch from the Wizard ofOz, for instance, an­other chose Bette Midler, and one guy did an old man -and then we had to recite the poem Humpty Dumpty as that character. That was kind offun." 
According to Mcnally, casting a show like Cabaret is very difficult because it's easy to begin looking for theJoel Gray/Liza Minnelli types. "We liked Frank Gabriele, who got the male lead ofthe Mas­ter ofCeremonies and OraJones as Sally because they had their own styles and interpretations ofthe characters," said McNally. 
"That's the nice thing about doing a college production," con­tinued McNally, "You can be dif­ferent, you can experiment with the production. Jeff, for instance, re-wrote a few scenes ofthe second act and added a new song." 
Mousseau calls it the director's prerogative and explains that, as a director, he will read and interpret the script and create his own con­cept about the themes. The production ofthe play, then, has to emphasize and highlight that con­cept. "I rewrote the second act to dramatize the escapism theme. Two scenes where Sally has to make major decisions were combined to set off the scene where she sings the song "Cabaret" which is her way of rejecting reality." 
Because the song from the original script, "Perfectly Mar­velous", didn't fit into the concept, Mousseau deleted it and, together with Mike Szatkowski, who wrote the music and some ofthe lyrics, added a new song, called "Goodbye Berlin." 
It was also added, said McNally, "because Mike Kelly, playing Cliff Bradshaw, has a terrific voice and we wanted to give that voice two shots." , 
Even the set design must work to emphasize the director's con­cept. Mousseau wanted to ponray visually the idea the the lively, of­ten decadent antics ofthe Cabaret performeres comment on the serious action ofmajor characters and their lives. In order to ac­complish this, Mousseau, along with set designer Ed Moreno and builderTim Nolan, designed a four foot high, seven-by-ten foot plat­form that will serve as the stage for scenes in Sally and Cliffs apan­ment. This contrived stage will be rolled onto the floor of the Kit Kat club so that the action can be ob­served by the people ofthe "Cabaret". 
"The audience also observes the action and forms pan ofthe "Cabaret"," said Mousseau. "In or­der to c~;eate this feeling some of the play's action is actually done in the aisles." 
"Consistent portrayal ofthe con­cept is a director's greatest con­cern," Mousseau emphasized. Even down to the last detail. At the first rehearsal after spring break, Mousseau addressed the cast with a smile and quipped, "All those players with Florida tans will have to get rid ofthem. It's not in my concept." 
'~Wancy DreUJ''solves thirdfloor mystery 
'"J'1here you are at the Notre 
.1 Dame library, searching for a floor to study on. You enter the elevator and go up. First floor, second floor, fourth floor, ...Wait a minute! What happened to the third floor? 


Toni Rutherford 
features 
It appears that even well-known universities like N.D. can harbor a mystery. I decided to play "Nancy Drew" and proceeded to solve "The Mystery of the Missing Floor!" 
My quest, ofcourse, involved many nights in the library, osten­sibly to study, but actually theoriz­ing about the elusive third floor. Wit~!. the help ofan overactive im­agination, I came up with many possibilities for the floor. The first thought was that perhaps novice nuns were kept up there to listen to the whispered conversations on second floor. This would help them decide ifthey were really ready to take vows. 
The next idea to cross my mind was in the line ofa Gothic novel. Perhaps the major donor had a traumatic experience on a third floor; a broken love affair, a death, an unreconciled fight with a friend, or anything along those lines. The donor would be broken-beaned and falteringly request that the library have no third floor. 
Ofcourse, ifyou are on the sub­ject ofdeath there is always the possibility that someone died up there. Maybe it' is the third floor of the library that is haunted instead ofWashington Hall! 
When Fr. Ted was talking about resigning,,and rumour ofhis alter­ego was rife, it suddenly dawned on me! Third floor was where the alter-ego was kept hidden! 
That theory was blown when it was discovered that there really was only one Fr. Ted. I let matters rest for awhile and worked on my grades. After break however, it staned to bother me again."When Nancy Drew was stumped," I -­thought to myself,"she talked to her friends." So I asked my friends what they thought. 
"Crown jewels are kept there!" exclaimed Gerrilu. "It's Fr. Ted's private apan­ment," contributed Anna. "It's probably for storage," decided the more practical Ann. 
Seeing that I would get no help from them, I turned to my last resort. Picking up the phone, I talked to Charles Ayers, the build­ing engineer. It so happened that the third floor is under his dominion and he was eager to talk 
tome. --· _ 
He explained that the third floor is the mechanical floor. It contains the heating and cooling systems that were originally intended for the 14th floor. In the early times it was decided that a penthouse was needed, so the equipment was 
placed on the third floor. Mr. Ayers described the system as a "complicated process." He offers explanations to anyone interested and you could probably also con­vince him to give you and friends a · tour. 
And soends "The Mystery ofthe Missing Floor_" Stay tuned for "The Wizard in the Watchtower." 


The Observer Features Section 
Wednesday, April 14, 1982 -page 7 




Trivia Quiz XXIII: A picture's worth... 

Tim tteely 1. 
music 

A s you can tell by looking at this page, this quiz is _n.. little bit different from the norm. Each of these pictures is taken directly from an album cover. What you must do is identify the album and the artist for each. It may not be as easy at it looks. Good luck! (Albums from the collection ofthe author.) 

2. 


9. 


5. 




7. 
W N~· d..,,"'-wmktr'l drt~:om\ m•.J' «lth pr•nth•r·, s.c.homes to 
•omtdoy own the rodtto 
Toint•d worr•n il'\ Vi\tr.cvhion perform for out·or·\.tat~ kidt. ot the lotu •how 
Wizcud imP\ and \wegt \ack p•mt:u. if11et\t_,llcu ff10ngrel nyrrph' 
Re.ll' lOid lh~?tlod-t !•It hifrl limp. lnv~·, li~e thnt wrn if j,·. 
Ounar. o' dtC:U'1'ond\, ncl! of 5pud~• •trwly d•~"7overed lo..•n o~ !hP. ""trglud•n 
Thov tao• aut a ("II pug~ od '" rloat~ hl)des tc, Ofii'\Ouncto th,,r arri..,ol 
A,r'd MfJ~'r Lou ,he {()IJnd OIJf how to cop~;~>. \he ride-\ fQ ~~uYI'f"' c.·~ ~-· qyr0"('0Q(I!o 

Wt-1 !ho• hkze and nol$~ oy, h~~~ gunnrn' thot bitth !oaded to blcntil"'' point 
Hn rid~@~~ l'lttod f•rst into o hurricon• ol"'d disappt'or~o into 
o point And t~e,l!l'~ r.othit'l' leh hut ~ome bln~d whe•• •h• body fell und tt<erl!'~ nott,i~' left 1ht.lt you <Oulci ••II just ju"k oil a<"tO~'lt thtl-hotir.or•, n 
fiHll highwoyrt1Gif'l'~ farnw~n A,..d I so:d ,''Htty kid yo» 1hink 
•h~t't oil? Mon. th1..1t l"lin't oil tr.nt"• blood. ' 
I .... ,,nd~r wha~ f.tc wt•~ thff•kil"'g
w+t'' hn h.t tr.at \torm M.... u·. l:t.' i:H' k~t il"l th.. f'!oC'Id? E1l)hth Av~rh.tt' :>•·;ilor\ lr. sof:l'l \hr•.. ..,.f\,~p\"1 iP tlw a;r 
8. 


Last week's answers 
W
ithout any ado, here are the answers to last week's quiz dealing with unusual album titles. The album is followed by the artist. 
1./fAn Angel Came to See You, Would You Make HerFeel at Home? -Black Oak Arkansas 
2.All tbe Girls in the World Beware! -Grand Funk 
3. 
TbeLowSpark ofHighHeeled Boys -Traffic 

4. 
You Can'tArgue with a Sick Mind -Joe Waish 


5.1 
Got Dem 01' Kozmik Blues Again Mama! -JanisJoplin 

6. 
Funkentelechy vs. tbe Placebo Syndrome -Parliament 


7. 
Ogden'sNut Gone Flake ­Small Faces (the album cover was unusual in that it was round! ) 

8. 
BlessIts Pointed LittleHead -Jefferson Airplane 


9. GenuineImitation Life 
Gazette -The Four Seasons lO.A -Jethro Tull 

10. 

SAVE THIS PAGE!!! Pictures willnot be published with answers 


~j1()f4tS:L:):,..=:i=e~~~=~==============================W=e=dn=e=sd=a=y,~IA=pr=il=1=4,=1=98=2===pa=g=e=8
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
The ND-SMC Bicycling Club will hold an or-Coachjoe Piane has announced th-atJohn McNelis, a ganizational meeting onTuesday, Apri120 at 6:30p.m. in LaFortune's standout prep distance runner from Northport, N.Y., will attend Little Theatre. All those interested are invited to attend; those who Notre Dame next year and compete in track for the Irish.-McNelis-is cannot attend should call Chuck Rowan at 3375.-The Observer ranked among the nation's best prep runners in the 1000-meter 
event by Track andFieldNews. -The Observer 

The Dancin' Irishwill hold an organizational meeting tonight at 6:30 in the LaFortune Little Theatre for all those in­"We gotclobbered"was Coachjoe Piane's comment terested in being on the 1982-83 squad. Information will be after the Notre Dame track team lost convincingly to the Naval 
provided on the upcoming tryouts which will be held Sunday Academy, 100-53, last Saturday in Annapolis. Bill Ribera through Wednesday, April 18 through 21. Anyone interested must (intermediate hurdles),Jim Moyar (800-meters) and the mile relay attend tonight's meeting. -The Observer team ofJacques Eady, Ron Hyde, Greg Kania and Van Pearcy were the only winners for the Irish. Freshman Chuck Constable placed second in the high jump with a leap of 6-10 1/4. !\!.D's next action will be hosting the Indiana Intercollegiate Championships this Satur­
Karen Bauters, a standout prep volleyball player from day at Cartier Field. -The Observer Marion High School in nearby Mishawaka, has announced her inten­tion to enroll at Notre Dame and play volleyball for Coach Sandy Vansla.ger next fall. Bauters, a three-year letter winner at Marion and captain of her team in her senior year, was named her squad's most The second annual An Tostal Golf Tourna­valuable player and is active in several volleyball teams in South ment will be held on Tuesday, April 20, at the Burke Memorial Golf Bend. She also ranks third academically in her graduating class and Course, beginning at I p.m. Golfers can register by calling Ed Rud­plans to pursue business at Notre Dame. Bauters joins Mary Lynne dick at 8647 before Monday. Prizes will be awarded to the low score McLaughlin of Santa Barbara, Calif., as freshmen on the Irish roster in both the men's and women's divisions, and also for the closest-to­for 1982. -The Observer the-pin on a selected hole. -The Observer 
ND-SMC Sailing Club will hold an important A busyweekfor the Notre Dame women's softball teammeeting tonight at 6:30 in Howard Hall's social space. All members begins today with a doubleheader at Saint Mary's beginning at 3:15. 
are strongly urged to attend, and new members are more than Then, on Friday, ND travels to Lewis University for anotherwelcome. Pat Leonardo will speak at the meeting about spring main­doubleheader beginning at 3 p.m. T CST. -The Observer
tenance and lessons. Over Easter break, the race team participated in the Ohio State Regatta where it finished a respectable fourth. -The Observer See SPORTS BRIEFS, page 9 
• 
~lRBOOKSTORE,~~~ 
First Round Gam.. Wadnaaday'a Reaulta (4/7) Stepan 1 

J.J. Youngs Auto and R1bs o"er Buster Hyman and the Cnmson Tide by 8 Double Decker Oreo o"er Pugha·s Bad Scene Trouser Snakes by 14 Cozm1c Debreeze o"er Lenny Scutnick and Great Heroes by 3 Prophylactic and the Safe Shooters Come Agam o"er H1ll Street Blues by 5 Stepan2 Duck W1/liams and the Dalton Gang o"er L1ck er Box by t5 Air Flonda Sw1mm1ng and D1"ing Club over Good 
lor One Penod, but No Second Stnng by t 0 Qu1nt1n Dailey and the AII-Amencan Felons over 
J.F. Rock by t t 

Joe Spunk and the Pearl Necklaces over We Wanted to Be F1ve Guys Names Moe, but by 2t 
Stepan3 

Recycled Backboard Trash over A Yard ot Infected 
Meat by 1 t 

Gentol Express and Four Lads over Null Set by t 6 
You Gona Want It over Scruffy J. and the Pass Out 
KidS, 23-21 (OT) 

Fast Eddie and the Early Squ1rts over EYB by t6 
Stepan4 

Sam Gilbert s Coathanger Kids over In and Out by 
Two, 23-2t (OT) 
Skull and Optic Jam over U.K. Nike by tO 

M1ke Hunt1ch"s and the Crabs over Martin Mull and 
No Ones, 22-20 (OT) 

Five Easy P1eces over F1ve Guys Who Want to 
Play A Touch of Class by tO 
Stapan5 

Johnny Core and the Keg Creatures over Father 
Nieuwland's Trojan Whoresmen by 6 

t69 Longnecks over Dick Stoney and the Hurt Me 
Bads, 23-21 (OT) Five Demers That Still Exist over Tigers by 5 Thomas Aqu~nas and the Jurist Prudes over Poop 
Shooters by t t 

Stepan& Bloody Rubble and the Kansas City Skywalkers over Round Three by 9 Mangled Baby Ducks over The Porch Club by 9 
See SPORTSBOARD, page 10 
The Observer will accept class1fieds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m to 4:30 p.m. However. classifieds to appear in the next 1ssue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day pnor to insertion. All classtfieds must be prepaid, 
e1ther in person or through the mail. 




Classifieds 

Spacial Discounts tor Notre Dame GET INVOLVED IN l"m still wa1t1ng for you two to publish my Cheryl, Rachel and Suzanne: faculty on computers and penpheral SMC STUDENT GOVERNEMENT schedule. Sleeping w1th you was wonderful. Let's
FOR RENT 

products, primers, modems, etc. Hewlett­Come to the mandatory meeting tor Hall do 11 aga1n sometime, eh? Packard. Zenith. FOURWAY COM­President and Vice President tickets. The Unltad NatiOns, In conjunction Mike PUT-ER PRODUCTS, INC., 52758 US 31 TONIGHT (April t4) at 7:00 in the Student with 1311 Kaanan Hall have designated$50,000-$80,000 PER YEAR Are you North (Across from North VIllage Mall) Government Ottices.(Regina basement) thla -kaa Fugly Paraon Waak. This Moooooooo!
bored with your job, t~red of working tor 
Student housing--clean, sate. $tOO/mo. 2n-n20. If you have any questions, Call Monica at yaar'a praaldant Ia Regia Eugana Al­
the other man. National company based 291-1405. 5802. 
llaon, who Ia alao running lor UGLY

in Lexington. Kentucky /ook1ng tor five ALL PITISBURGH CLUB MEMBERS •• 
distributors in seven-county area. Call 1-75 FORD L TO Wagon, $500, runs & looks MAN ON CAMPUS. Pledge Those who have not p1cked up the~r ap­800-9594. 4 Bdrm N Shore $270 mo total. Call Patty good, Call Peter 283-t 439 COMPUTER TYPING of papers. dis­for Regia now. Let him know you care/ plications tor next years officers should 3/93226735 Call refunded sertations, books. It you must revise, we do so today at the STUDENT AC­
HAIRCUTS! ·························-COUCH FOR SALE-good condition­save you time and money. Beautiful Ha really wants It-TIVITIES OFFICE (first floor LaFortune). ONLY $4 FOR GUYS AND $6 FOR BE YOUR OWN BOSS. Comlortabla4 make me an otter! call Nick 272-6001 finished work. 233-9900. Regia Eugana Alllaon lor UGLIEST They are due Thurs., April t 5 at 3:00 pm. 
· badrooom completely lurnlahad 
MAN ON CAMPUSI Elections will take place at the Happy STYLING, ROTC AND PERSONALLY hoUH lor 5 or 6. CloH to campua. ATTENTION ALL UGLY MEN: Pledge your vote now/ Hour tn Flanner's Commoner on Fnday, DESIGNED CUTS FOR YOUR FACE Happy Hour at Pandora's every Friday April t6 from 3:00-6:00. 
GIRLS --LOT OF EXPERIENCE IN (eve) 239-6t 03 (day) 
Phona 288-31142. A leader will soon be chosen from among 
your ranks! UMOC IS COMING!-It could THE FACE THAT WILL REMIND YOUAND HAIR C!ILL M~CHOLE AT 7951 3-6 p.m. All used books 50 pet ott; all new 

For Rent Student Housing-rated beU!
books 20 pet ott. This week only--used OF THE SOUTH END OF A NORTH PITTSBURGHERS--THERE WILL BE A 
superior-summer and/or fall. Clean, safe, P/TISBURGH CLUB HAPPY HOUR,LADIES; poetry & soc1ology 50 pet ott. 937 South BOUND DONKEY I REGIS EUGENE AL· 
laundry, utilities, $t00/mo total. 29t­finally, THIS FRIDAY. APRIL t6 FROM ing in the South Bend area. Sate, ef­1405 Be on your UGLIEST BEHAVIOR! lor UGLIEST MAN ON CAMPUS/ 
Mad Dog~ escort serv1ce now operat­Bend Ave .. 233-2342. ATTENTION ALL UMOC HOPEFULS­LISON, a.k.a. pudgy lags, fugly,chuba, 
3:00 TO 6:00 IN FLANNER"S COM­CALCULATOR: Tl SR-51·11 W/ ADAP­MONER. ELECTIONS WILL ALSO TAKE fective, reasonably priced, very TIME IS RUNNING OUT!!! 
2 houses near Corby's & Laundromat;"European" serviCes offered. Mad Dog TOR, CASE, BATS. $t 5. 272-4463 JIM PLACE AT THIS TIME ALL MEMBERS

tOt 2 S B Ave, $325-5 rooms, huge base­Do you have your copy of the Molarity
himself is often described as "the connos­RICh: 
ARE FREE. (BRING SOME PROOF TO suer of the sweetest fruits of h1s age,·· and I heard Butch and Peaches are your
ment, 1 bath; 622 N Frances. $425-7 books yet? No? Well then hurry ­
SHOW THAT YOU'RE FROM PITTS­"a man of giant strengths and desires ..." parents. Is it true.
rooms, 2 bath. Water, Elec, Garbage incl, Juniper Press is still marketing a limited 
BURGH).

New Kitchens, Gas Heat; Bill, 232-7135 supply of the two smash hits by
I

Call 3335 to ach1eve personal services of Ryan everybody's tavonte cartoonist, Michaelvarious sorts. 
TICKETS 
Molinelli, in either WELCOME BACK PEEPTYPES!/1 

..______, 
Timmy, put the papers down! I'm gonna 
Don't Make • RightFREE FACIAL/ Natural Skin Care putittoherl 

WOMEN OF FARLEY ( t ST FLOOR) Program. Jafra Cosmectics. Penny Pen­
or last year's chart-topper, now in its
WANTED 

Need extra t1ckets for graduation Call WHAT DO UC.L.A., ASTEROIDS, rod 29t-6310. 
fourth edition, 

Mark at 3008 On the Road to Sailing Out ROCK BAR, AND P----0---ALL HAVE IN SMC CLASS OF '85 
'-------------.JI 
Hey -don't delay -act today/ COMMON?ANSWERTOMORROW 

TO: Claaa of '56 Graduate• of NO A Applications tor the sophomore council
NEED T/X FOR GRADUATION CALLTYPING 26 years as a secretary-­
SMC are available 1n the student activities
MARTY 277-t 036 FROM: Jo Hanneuy office this week. Anyone interested may 
excellent typist, ret~red. $1.00/page call LYONS HALL FOODSALES OFFERS IT may take two to tango, but it takes three Phyllis 259-2501. THE BEST IN FRESH, THICK CRUST 
to pump gas!!! 
pick them up. They must be returned toRE:Party ITS NEVER TOO LATE! Semor Formal 

PIZZA DELIVERED ANYWHERE OON bid tor sale. Call Mike at 8741 mghts. 
the Activ1t1es Off1ceHELP, I CAN'T SWIM, SO I NEED A SOUTH QUAD FOR THE NOMINAl MISSION IMPOSSIBLE; Get 30 cents inThe Clau of '56 NO A SMC Ia aponaor­
RIDE TO FT. WAYNE ON APRIL 16 OR CHARGE OF ON SOUTH QUAD FOR the basket on the first try. lng a party In conjunctiOn with the My family laughed when I told them that I Br~AOrtl
17 TO SPEND EASTER WITH CAST­THE NOMINAL DELIVERY CHARGE
Thanx tor the company, the goodGraduating Claa• ol'82 on Friday May was FINALLY graduating! In tact they

AWAY FAMILY. IF YOU CAN OFFER OF THURSDAY NIGHTS FROM 11:30 TO 
Eric,14 at 7pm In the Stanford Hall Party AID, CALL PEG AT 1274. won't believe it unless they see it. So I humor, the fun and breakfast too!! 11 AND ORDER YOURS. ALSO: Don't forget to mark down that toll!!!

3 Observer wenches Room. Plea..contact Jo Hanneuy at need extra graduation tickets. Call t 023 EVERY WEDNESDAY NIGHT IS P.S. Learn hoe to pump gas quickly//

211·2152 or Bill Hanneuy at 232-4887 and ask tor Charlie. ........"...... . 
RIDE NEEDED to Chicago or N.W. Sub­GUEST CELEBRITY NIGHT WITH lor details. You were expecting maybe moose­
urbs Thurs. 4-/5 after 2:30 and/or return 
WELL-KNOWN CAMPUS-FIGURES 
behavior? Elections Today tor Class Ad. Council
trip Sun. 4-16 anytime. Call Debbie 4623 WORKING THE COUNTER! FOR TYPING CALL 288-5655. (SMC) Just when you thought.it was sate to go Hall Representatives! 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . .. . . . . ... . .

back to the Yukon! The return of Moose VOTE!!! VOTE!!! VOTE/!/ Experienced typist will do typ1ng. Call PERSONALS Control/!! MIKE GUROAK FOR U.II.O.C......HE
Professor reqwes part-t1me typist who 

267-5 t 62. Good speller. 
And the Restless Shade of Moose Con­REALLY WAHTSITIIII Dearest E. B, and T. 
has access to Commodore CBM Model 


................................................................ Thanks lor the fond memones
trol thundered across the peace of a sane INTERESTED IN POST-GRAD. Love and LAUGHTER, 6032 System. Send specifics to PO Box 
TURTLE galaxy, spreading lunacy where he a SERVICE OPPORTUNITY? TALK WITH C and R. 
77. Notre Dame, IN 46556. 

sm1ie-it prevents premature wnnkling! would, tor such was his want. He 1S 
JVC REP ON APR. 15 IN VSO 1 :00-5:00. 
strange bird. 

LOST/FOUND 
Need Ride/Riders to Pittsburgh on 

weekend of t 6-t 6. Please call Kev1n at ATTENTION!! Come see the new breath­manual lanes// 
ili~yi:i~ii~;~;~;uMoc~·u9iyM~~~~

1t39, taking starlet, Notre Dame's own--ORA Q: Where do Gls eat 1n the Yukon? MANUAL LANES!!!! 
Campus.

LOST: A GOLD CHAIN AND CRUCIFIX JONES 1n Cabaret. Eat your heart out A: In the moose tent, naturally. MANUAL LANESII/111 AT THE ROCKNE SWIM OFFICE. Ineed a nde to Western Mich1gan or K'zoo Liza Minelli! (Break a leg Ora. we love "LOST" ON TUESDAY MARCH 23, area. Can leave anytime fri. or Sat. Call ya!!) --The Fianner 10 A Guys SCOTT BOSSY, What do Jeff Jeffers and the man from Get out of the gutter! 
Where have you been? Are you try1ng to

1962. IF "FOUND" PLEASE RETURN Time, t762. Nantucket have 1n common? Nothing. 
TO 826 GRACE HALL OR CALL JOHN On stage or OFF. I think you re an AC­blow me oft? Well, rm not that easy to get 
MARC, AT 672t-NO QUESTIONS WILL BE Need riders to DAYTON or RICHMOND. TOR!! (Not to mention an a-hole!!) Do rid of. 1"11 be look1ng for you!! Simon haa -nstulladlll HI FOX! THANX FOR THE AWESOME IND. for April 16-t6. Caii5475(SMC) you still believe 1n NIGHTINGALES?? YOUR FAN 
ASKED. HAS MUCH SENTIMENTAL Yesterday I recetved the ptctures whtch TIME LAST WEEK (TLP) AND HERES A VALUE. Maybe a lin/e less dreammg and a lot pushed us over the goal of 25 tor An T as­PBHB04U. HAPPY BIRTHDAY/ ALAS. more MORNING was definitely in order!! 
ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING for all tal's Frame Stutt~ng Contest.. but don't let WISH WE COULD BE TOGETHER LOST: while going to St. Ed's from the those interested 1n working on the 1982-that stop you from entering ... This is the MISS YOU ALREADY AND IM THINK­
P.S. Gosh, there are an awful lot of God­library, a black cross pen with the initials desses around here -~ do you clone your 83 Transfer Onentat1on Committee Mon­last week to subm1t your t)name, STOP ING ABOUT YOU. MOST OF ALL I LOVE
FOR SALE 

invitations the same way?
K.J.C. If lound please call Kev1n at 8858. day, Apnl t 9, 6:30 pm 10 the PW 24-hr 2)address, and 3)photo to: YOU. (WELL,JUST LOOK AT --The LARK -­
lounge. Any quest1ons call Annie, 2785 Stuff Simon YOURSELF-/ MEAN WHAT ELSE GREEN NOTEBOOK (pocket type) P.P.S. We blfd (bra1ns) can fly by our­cto Jeb Cash~n 
WOULD I DO?) LOST on tues or wed. Important material USED BOOK SHOP. HOURS WED , selves --I don·t need to be TAKEN tor a Sally, PO. BoxO MAUREEN is enclosed. Contact Dan Upton, 207 St. SAT. SUN. 9-7. CASPERSON t303 nde!l How do you keep your leo up With no The Observer Ed's, x8822 BUCHANAN RD., NILES. 
VISible means of support? Is that wh1sky Thanks to Man Blowzak, Rich, Chuck Van RyanATTENTION: and honey really for your voiCe? Wa1t till R., Steve, Karl, John, Art, James, I hope the cookies were recompense

FOUND: Cross pencil Tues. 3-30 1n E.G. MEN-Show your lady you care with a gift Miriam (Captain otthe hoseheads), Karen T H. finds out about the bedrootn scene Manfred, Kelly, and John A. for jo1mngl Aud. call Mike 3242 ol spring--a bouquet of fresh cut flowers (What exactly does that stipend mc/ude), Who DID you sleep With to get your tob? enough for your services rendered to my 
delivered each week for 4 weeks. WED­Kate (Alias Evita), Deb (Let's go to You rea natural you Simply maaahvelous Did everyone remember to FEED THE daughter. Would have sent more, but LOST A PAIR OF GLASSES BETWEEN NESDAY'S FLOWERS 269-12t 1. church), Kath (Stats 101), Giana (Why freshman sensation. REALLY! BEAR during Easter Break? 
there were so many rectptents and so few 
to go around. 

PANGBORN AND THE STADIUM waste time wondering), Carolyn (Not an­The We-Won"!-Tell-Your-Mama Group MOMFRIDAY NIGHT APRIL 2 NEED THESE STREET NAME SiGNS-your name-any other magazine), Sue (There is life after Mare, 
TO SEEIII PLEASE CALL 264-45t9 legend up .~ 13 spaces. Looks like Notre Tanadoonah), Maureen (Aren't there any No clouds in the forecast. However, it's REWARDII/ Dame Av sign. $t7.75 $2.00 hd/g. IN or­mountains in Mich.), Coogan ( ), Neville Watch out for Mike. M1ke who? No. Mike cold as hell. How about an H-DOME II to Betsy Klug: 
ders add 4 pet. (Allow 30 days) AARON'S (Have paperbag-Will travel) ... Thanks for What. Mike what? Yeah. What s his last warm up? Just found out 11 was your birthday.FOUND A bracelet at the Stanford SIGNS, PO BO 31121, SOUTH BEND, IN the card. name? Right. Loot< out ladres, What"// be LOVE Hope you had a happy 21st. Vegetable party. To claim call 6736. 481111. Your Hoos1er Friend kissmg you. KIPPER 
Oru 
The Observer -Sports Wednesday, April14, 1982-page 9 
...Bookstore 
continuedfrom page 12 
Last Wednesday's beautiful weather provided an excellent set­ting for wme terrific ~o:ames. "You Gotta Want It" muM have wanted it, as thc:y dekatt:d "Scruffy T. and the Pass-Out Kids," in a 2.3·21 thriller. 
"Sam Gilbert's Coathanger Kids" won a similar contest over "In and Out By 2," also hy a score of 23-21. 
OutManding ~hooting perfor­mance~ induded Mike Meeks' 9-of­1 0 as "Sons of Thunder II" defeated "Peter Smegma ..," 21-8. 
Vince "Moose" Genova was 10-of­17 as "Five Easy Pieces" defeated "Five Guys Who Want ...," 21-11. 
A sad Bookstore story came to a conclusion last Wednesday when "Five Doomers That Still Exist" defeated "Tigers," 2 1-16. "Tigers" consists of five seniors who played together each of their four years. Even though they were a decent team, they never won a Bookstore game. In the words of captain Rob Suttman, who was 8-of-16 in this year's loss, "We never got a good draw. I think somebody has been out 
...Sportsbriefs 

continuedfrom page 8 
Notre Dame's ROTC departments, which includes the Army, Navy and Air Force units, will sponsora five-mile road race this Saturday, April 17, beginning at 10 a.m. The race course winds through the Notre Dame campus, beginning and ending at the ROTC building. All interested runners may obtain pre-registration forms at any of the three ROTC offices. Cost is S2.00 In advance, $3.00 the day of the race. The top three male and female fmishers will receive trophies, and refreshments will be provided to all runners at the end of the race. -The Observer 
The ND men's tennis team defeated Indiana 
State yesterday at the Courtney Tennis Center by a score of 7-2. 
Winners for the Irish in the singles matches were Mark McMahon, 
Jim Falvey, Tom Robison, Mike Gibbons and Tom Pratt. The doubles 
teams of Mike Gibbons-John Novatny and Paulldzik-Tom Pratt also 
earnt~d victories for Notre Dame. Tomorrow's Observer will carry 
the results of the five matches played by the Irish over Easter break 
and also tomorrow's match with lllinois-Chicago Circle -The Ob­
server 
Fellowshlp ofChristianAthleteswill spon­
sor an eveningwith Notre Dame hockey coach Lefty Smith tonight in Zahm Hall chapel beginning at 8:30. All are invited to attend. FCA promotes Christian fellowship among athletes and coaches in hope that this will be shared with the larger community. -The Observer 
An Tostal's ping-pong tournament pairings have been posted outside the student government offices on the second floor ofLaFortune. Competetion begins this Sunday, April18.-The Observer 
The ND Rowing Clubwill hold an election for next year's officers tomorrow night at 8:30 offthe ballroom at LaFortune. All members are encouraged to attend. -The Obseroer 
to get us for four vears." Paul Foster 
was·s:for-16 for the winners. 
In another contest, Brad Vosberg arrived after his team, "Natalie and the Wood That Wouldn't Float," began its game against "Frantic." Vosberg, who didn't have time to change his clothes following an ap­pointment, had to play in his three­piece suit with borrowed snc::akers. Vosberg scored three times, but his team lost, 2 1-18. 
"We should have played man-to­man," was the comment of Mike DeCicco after his team, "We Wanted To Be Five Guys Named Moe ...," was shut out by "Joe Spunk and the Pearl Necklaces," 21-0. DeCicco and his teammates combined for an in­credible 0-of-18 shooting perfor­mance, which prompted some onlookers to ask if the Hoosier Award can be given to an entire team. The losers are currently in­vestigating the possibility of manufacturing T-shirts to com­memorate the debacle which they survived. 
In another quick contest, it only took "Trojans" 21 minutes to defeat "Swamprats." The final was 21-7. 
In a game which they lost to "Thomas Aquinas and the Jurist Prudes," 21-10, the "Poop Shooters" provided the comic relief for the day. Each member of the team wore a shirt with a n~e on the back. The names included "Dropppings," "B.M.," and "Crap." The shirts also had toilet paper attached to them. 


CLUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS 
April Is th• tim• to r•-r•glts•r your group for Unlverslbf recognition nnd Its •nsulng prlvll•g•s. Forms nr• nvnllnbl•ln Student Activities Office. By Apr1130,you mustcompl•te: 
I. New tegisttation fotm 
2. Financial statement (81-82 school yeat) 
3. Repott ot statement of activities fot81-82 school yeat. 
The nbov• nr• pr•-r•qulsltes for funding In September, use of fncllltl•s, nnd •llglblllty for fund-rnlslng v•ntures, Including footbnll conc•sslon stnnds nnd the movie lottery. 
DEADLINE TO RE-REGISTER IS APRIL 30. 
... 
Angeles Kings eliminated the Edmonton Oilersfrom the NHL Stan­ley Cup playoffs with a 7-4 win last night. In other action, the /slanders came back to eliminate Pittsburgh in overtime, 4-3, after trailing 3-1 with five minutes left. Also, Quebec eliminated Montreal with a 3-2 win in the Forum. (AP Laserphoto) 
................................. 
Thursday night 
!• 
performance especially for Seniors 
to start off Senior Formal weekend 
(Thurs. sales open to all classes) 
................................. 

California Stereo Liquidators, Federal No. 95-3531037, will dis­pose of, for a manufacturer's representative, their inventory surplus of new stereo equipment. The items listed below will be sold on a first-come first-served basis at . Sunday, April 18, 1982 HOLIDAY INN 9:00AM. to 2:00P.M. 515 Dixie Way, South Bend, IN ONLY WHILE QUANTITIES LAST Value Price Value Price22 Parr Only Coaxial Car5 Only AM!FM Cossette $159. $29 each Speakers Giant MagsCar In Dash poir 5 Only AM!FM 8 Trk Parr Only TnaxrLII Car Car Stereo In Dash Speakers, Grant Mags$139 $29 each $119 $49 poir  
20 Only 8 Track Cor Stereos, Underdash $69 $19 each  18 Only Graphic Equalizers For Car, High Wattage $159 $39 eaclt  
20 Only Cauett<P Car Ster.-os. Underdash $75 $25 each  23 P01r Only 2-Way Car Sptoakt'rS, Duul Cone $49 $19 JHiir  
Only AM/FM/8 track Car Sler.-os In Dash (Best) $165 $59 each  10 Only AM!FM in Dash Cassettes For Small Cars $225 $89  
30 Only AM!FM Cassette Cor Stereos In Dash (Best} $189 $59 each  22 Only AM!FM Cassettes For Car wrth Auto Reuerse $225 $89 ecKit  
20 Pwr Only Modular 4· Way S~okers $119 $89 pair  27 Only Power Boosters For Stereo, Hrgh Wattage $89 $29eadt  
ALL BRAND NEW MERCHANDISE Wln-1 FULL 2 YEAR WAilRANllES! Buv one or all of the abooe quantiu listed-The Public is lnuited VISA, MASTERCARD, CASH or PERSONAL CHECKS WELCOMED DAY ONLY SUNDAY APRIL 18 ONLY WHILE QUANlTlmS LAST!  

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I 
boura) Stoponrs prrm111rd 1n bol h dart-cl•on... 14 d1y advanct" purehut 
rrqu1rtod. Suu hmlted. Ask abour our low coil Normal. Samt' Day. and 
Group farrs. too
I! ALSO LOW COST CONNECTING SERVICE TO NICE ANO AMSTERDAM. 
~ lceland.;ur to Lu'xembourg. Luxa1r or Crossalf connectmg service ~ to other destmauons. 01111 • Confirmed reservation. • Free wme w1th dmner, cognac after. ~ • Bargam Stopover Tours of Iceland and Luxembourg. • Bargam car
! 
rentals. • Purchase tickets m U.S. • All lares subJect to change and ~ government approval. 
I ~..~ .....,_....""~~;~~;J;;J;#R;

I f.­
tMt:M.·IIi/tr:tm·l2@l/iil2fWI[,JW,-t,JJI 
1 


ICELINDIIR INTRODUCES 
NEW BIROIIN FIRES TO 


MORE OF EUROPE. 
FROM CHICAGO FROM CHICAGO 

' 
FROM CHICAGO FROM CHICAGO 
All AP4'1 hru: Ap"l I -May 14. t9g2. 7-90 day Slay (7-60 days Lu..m· 



The Observer -Sports Wednesday, April14, 1982-page 10 
• • • Sportsboard 

N 
Yes, still another award for Ralph Sampson. On Monday, the Virginia star center received the john Wooden Awardfrom the Los AngelesAthletic Club, signifying the college player ofthe year. (AP 
Laserpboto) 
a F 

' • an • 
CAMPUS MINISTRY LECTURE SERIES 

Blue Collar/Roman Collar: The Church's Response to Unions 
by Rev. Patrick Sullivan, CSC 

Aptil14 -Wednesday -7:00-8:30 Pm Hayes-Healy 
an 
can)pus
miniStry 
a a




r. ... 
If you desire financial assistance, scholarship, or guaranteed job opportunites 

... 
then you should enter____, 
14-15 April 
As an important date in your calendar! That is the day we are providing information and interviews in all areas of: 
AVIATION ENGINEERING PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT at 
Notre Dame Placement office 

• Salaries start from $17,200-$24,000 
increasing to $27,500-$44,000 in four years. 
Openings are also available in: 
Materials Management Business Administration 
Nuclear Engineering 
Doctors 
Nurses 

lawyers For more information or appointment for interview call: 
-817-or 1-800-382 -9404 extension 6181 169-6181 
DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY 575 N. Pennsylvania St_ Office, 646 (OPO)

_::! 
Indianapolis, IN. 46204 


Summer Special Rates 

STORAGE 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS APPROX 2Y2 MILES NORTH U.S. 31-33 GATES OPEN ALL DAY SUNDAY 


aster Mini Warehouses 
• 
•

• The ND Student Union 
•

: Services Commission • 
• announces •
•

• APPLICATIONS FOR THE CAKE SALE •
•
• CONCESSIONS ARE DUE THIS FRIDAY •
• •• Any questions call John Kelly at 8687 or 239-7757 •• ••
• 
I 
; The N D Student Union is seeking applications : : for mOVIE COmPTROLLER : This is a great opportunity toline up a posltio1• atthe Student Union for the next school year. 
: Business majotS encouraged to apply :• 
• Call mike Jans • ·i 239-7757 or 6770 or leave your name : 


:.~ ....:~~~h:.~~~~,.:-~=~:!:!r:~~....i 
6:15 
-New Bomb Turk and the Hollywood Knights 

v. 
Five Pubes on the R1m Stepan2 


4:00 -The Gnme that Collects Under Your Toenails v. Five Guys Named Dick 
4:45-The Storekeeper's Misfits v. Hank Finke·s Cousin Joe's Th1ghs and the ToxiC Shockers 
5:30 -The Uh-Oh Squad v Box and One 
6:15-Let's Get MetaphysiCal v. F .., Grass, We Can Still Make the NIT 
Stapan3 
4:00-Captam Kirk and the Things that Wouldn't Leave v. The Four Flanner Phalaxes and the Holy Hose Head 
4:45-WSS v. Four B/owoHs and a Deep Throat 5:30-Grandpa and the Guards v. Five Average White Men 6:15-Sackless Wastage v Fameless Finale 
Stepan4 4:00-Taftsass v. Doctors of Delusion 4:45-You Won't Break a Sweat v. Spontaneous 
Combustion 5:30-Wizzes of Wall Street v Brogan·s Heroes 
6:15 -Hey Larry Wolff, Were s Gary? v. Slick 
S . and the Sebaceous L M. 
Stapan5 
4:00-Death or Glory v. Swynasty 4:45-The Fighting Lamurs v. Filipmo Five Only Games Scheduled 
Stepan& 4:00-Mackin High v. Reckless Dnvers 4:45-The Nestle Crunch Bars v. MI. St. Helen's 
Ski Team Only Games Scheduled Stepan 1 No Games Scheduled Stepan 8 No Games Scheduled . Bookstore 9 4:00-But Cen She Go To Her Left v. Rolls Royce and His Entrepreneurs 4:45-Chumphy's Chunks v. Four Hoosier Haters and a Hoosier 
5:30 -That's RIQhl, Wez Bad II v Sam Gilbert's Free Clinic 6:15-Rock and the Four Bncks v. Hang On It 
Bookatore 10 4:00-Abraham Men v Austnan Deportees 
4:45 -String Music, The N1ghtmare Boys and Their Phantom Decoys v Bookstore for Bonzo 
5:30 -Stan s Running Bungunners v. John Belush1 and the Not-Rea<ly-For-DIB-T1me Players 
6:15 -Second Commg of the EmbarT8SSIJlg Sta1ns v. Barnacle B11/ and H1s Seamen 
Lyona11 4:00-402v. NYAAWI 
4:45 ~ Wildcats II v. The Beetween the Covers Gang 
5:30 -San Qu,ntrn Da1ley v. Take No Pnsoners 6:15-The Neplusultras v Lex Fori 
Lyona12 4:00-Four Jerks and a Dnbbler v. Phlegm 4:45-Natalie Wood Swim Team v. LIXIX Vermin 
Style 5:30-Madmen v. Shysters 6:15-Ziggy Stardust and the Sp.ders from Mars 
v. The Avengers 
END OF ROUND ONE 


Injury ends career of Buchanan 
The up-and-down football career of Notre Dame tight end Pete Buc­hanan apparently has come to an un­fonunate end. 
The senior-to-be, who came to ND as a fullback from nearby Plymouth (Ind.) High School, but was switched to t~~t end by Coach Gerry Faust, suffered a severe knee injury in yesterday's Irish spring practice: 
Surgery was scheduled to be per­formed this morning at St. Joseph's Hospital in South Bend. Buchanan, who will be a fifth-year senior next year, is not expected to return for tht: 1982 season. 
Injuries are no stranger to Buc­hanan. The 6-3, 220-pounder missed the entire 1979 campaign because of a broken ankle and received an­other year of eligibility. Under NCAA rules, Buchanan cannot be red-shined a second time. -The Observer 

Pete Buchanan continuedfrom page 8 

The Prolies over Hose Monsters by 15 Five D.O.D.'s After Some S. . by the Pool over Bloody Jello Fiends by 5 
Stapan7 

No Games Scheduled 
Stapanl 

No Games Scheduled 
Book8torel 

Tan Masters over The Snack Bar by 14 Frantic over Natalie and the Wood that Wouldn't F/oatby3 lncreda Legs Meets Five Power Tools in Search of a Box over Virgin Killers by 2 Trojans over Swamprats by 14 
~10 

Twinkle and the Creamers over Clair Brown's Boys by10 Hoban's Heroes over The Good, the Bad, and then Us by 12 Harmony Davidson and the Menstrual Cycles over Totally Irresponsible by 3 Reckless Abandon over Air Florida Deicers and the Potomac River Swim Team by 11 Lyona11 Phil Lat10 and the Four Skins over Clueless Won­dersby9 Spoofhounds II over Semi-Pro Phyl Actic and His Rubberized Shot Blockers by 5 Quintin Dailey and Four Guys Who Force It Inside over Lynne Daley and the Baby Seal Slaughterers by 
5 
Penetramos over Five Austrians Under Glass by 
12 
Lyona12 

The Bloated Stomachs over Curley Crowd by 3 
Logan's Heroes over The Organ Grinders by 12 
Sons of Thunder II over Peter S ... and His Four 
Ball Handlers by 13 Team Bud over I Thought George Gave Up Cigars by 16 
Yesterday's ReauHa Stepan 1 D1gger's NIT Bids over Anwar Sadat and I Love a Parade by 16 Four Heteros and Yoder over Joe Mama and the 
Hosersby2 
We'll Steal20 over 289-9000 by 14 
Oscar Meyer and the Bagel Abusers over Tony 
Doesn't Live Here Any More by 8 Stepan 2 14th Street Aircraft Carriers over A New Low ­We re So Ashamed by 12 A Touch of Class over The Huskie Bob Cavallini's by9 Ronald Reagan and the Detecils over Doug Dinkys Big Pet by 18 Club Special over Ostiun Meat Packers by 9 Stepan3 F1ngers in the Socket over Takee-Outee and the Bed Busters by 5 Samurrai De admen over Tricker and the Doobers by2 
We Want to Play Five Guys That Can Penatrate But Can't Shoot in the First Round over Five Guys That Can Penatrate But Can't Shoot by 16 
Five Unchased College Kids over The Inner Thighs of Atilla the Hun by 17 
Stepan4 
Lou's Legacy II over Meat Packers by 18 
Last of the Stoosters over Jake and the Land 
Snakes by forfeit 
John Murphy's Slime Train Ill over Rancid Food by 
9 
Doggie Style or No Style over Return at the Fwe Footers by 16 Stepan 5 
M.C.O.B. over Kathy Ray's Proud Peacocks by 13 Space Cadets over The Blimp and its Four Pilots by 17 Tamar and the Wasted Seeds over The Kuz1nya Brothers, 26-24 (OT) Son of Oyxz over We've Still Got a Shot at the NIT by7 
Stepan& Sons of Pale over Old Mildew by 7 2-C Losers over John Belush1 and the Four Grams 
by 12 Captain Supply Side and the Kool A1d Kids over the Smoking E's by 13 General Murphy and His Confederates over Spanky's Devils, 23-21 (OT) Stepan7 No Games Scheduled Stepan 8 No Games Scheduled BookstoreS The Soph1sticados over Harry Butt and the Four Bodagotts by 10 No Sugar Added over Quintin Dailey's Four Felonies by 12 The Smooth Ones over Nude Waterskiers tor Christ by 15 
T.D. Express over The Bumblers by 13 
Bookstore10 You're in Trouble over Fewmets by 16 We'll Steal 20 Wins --Sure over Hooter and the 
Four Skins by 10 The Restless Shade of Moose Control over Pan­ther Hogs by 8 Dog Walsh and the High Rates II over Demon Deaconsby4 Lyona11 The Greater Metropolitan Area Girating Giggolos over Department of Redundancy Department by 4 Anwar Sadat and the Gunners over The Return of J. Arthurby3 The Five Defenders over F1ve Sa1lors from the Rus­Sian Submarine and in the Reflecting Pool by 8 F1ve Lazy Sods over Wobbly Warheads by 3 Lyona12 Haywood Jablomi Now over Cracked W1edt and the Assorted Grains by 16 Robert E. Grant and 1he Umon Rebels over John Belush1 and the Never Ready tor Prime Time Players by5 Head and Seamen Realty over R1ck Kuhn's American Dream by 14 Buster Hymen and Connie Lingus Are Back and Bauer Than Ev11r over Aggravated Assault Ill, 25-23 (OT) 
Today'a Gamea Stepan 1 
4:00 -Fair Enough v. The Village Green Preservation Soc1ety 
4:45 -Captain Lips and the Amazing Zulu Brothers v. Quintin Dailey and Four of His Counts 
5:30-QUintin Dailey and the Four Felons v. Jim­my's Vomit 


--J
1 
Wednesday, April14, 1982-page 11 


Oil Till~ I~ /<b 
to NO... I'M CUITE 13£YO\JD 

ME kE f'Ol€, I'KlU~E: 
YOU fiE LP... THERE I~ /V,o

r HAVE lXJG f1'(5£i.F 
NE£() E~R~E FROM AN ll<ADf­

INTO AN ltii~MIC­
f\l'l'f MIC-HOLE-IN-TI-If· 

~E-iN· THE·G.f100IJO. 
HhP? GfOUAill. 

The Daily Crossword 
© 1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 4/14/82 All Rights Reserved 

s 
CHAUTAUQUA 
BRINGS 
YOU 
Kick back and listen to the music 
lieyou eat lunch up In ~he Chautauqua Lafortune Ballroom. Got a favorite tape? Sting ItIn 
, and we'll playltforyouI 
The mualc Ia dally ao COmE ON UPIll 
Michael Molinelli 






WHAT
ARE 

YOU CRY, PRA'/,GoiNG­:JULK .•. TO In? THE il~UitL. 
ACROSS 22 Afternoon 46 Strike 14 Andes 1 Like the affairs 48 Spanish transport sea 23 Debussy's gold 16 Prying 
6 Mexican La-49 Cupola 18 Purse hero 24 After June 50 California 21 Desi's 
12 Used a or lady mount daughter branding 25-Haute 51 Stance 22 'Twixt iron 26 "Old Lace" 53 Pertinent twelve and 
13 Immature preceder 54 Parade twentyseeds · 29 Unreliable ground 24 Crosby 
14 Some 31 "I came," command 25 Walked horseshoe to Caesar 55 Eddieor 27 Edith pitches 32 Tonic Benedict or Madge 
15 Camera ingredient 56 Give in 28 Bird of operator 33 Not usual return Hawaii 17 Mexican, 36 Lucky break 57 Metric 29 Frat letter 
for one 40 Yours measure 30 Helen's 18 Tree part 41 A Carter hometown 19 Arafat's 42 Before cent DOWN 33 Sharpen 
grp. or annum 1 Mixer 34 "-of the 20 Coeurd'-43 Agts. blades crowd" 21 Endure 44-Hari 2 Arrested 35 Return 
3 A Castle thrust 4 Fiddling 37 Liturgical 


tyrant letter 5 Measures: 38 Madea abbr. profit 
6 "Nana" 39 Fear author and 41 Had lunch family 44 Samuel 
7 Turn away or Robert 8 Style of 45 Potentate rock 46 Bootblack's 9 Smithand cry Hirt 47 Estate home 10 Painter's 49 Pair 
medium 50 Species 11 Happy-52 Wallet 12 Hunting occupant 
vessel 53 Dance step 





Campus 
•1 
p.m. -Baseball, ND Men vs. Wisconsin, jake Kline Field 

•2 
p.m. -Tax Assistance Program, LaFortune Student Center 

•3 
p.m. -Tennis, ND Men vs. Chgo. Circle, Courtney Courts 

• 
3:30 p.m. -Lecture, "On Wave Propagation in Nonlinear Materials With Memory, Prof. Mort Gur­tin, Fitpatrick Hall Rm. 35<1, 

•4:20 
p.m. -Lecture, "Semi-classical Descrip­tions of Light-ion Nuclear Reactions, Dr. Edward Stephenson. Cyclotron Facility, Rm. 118 NSH, 

•4:30 
p.m. -Seminar, "Transition Metal Promoted Reactions of Boron Hydrides, Larry G. Snedon, Rm. 123 NSH, 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Acting Methods as they Developed in the 20th Century, Prot: Kazimiriz Braun, SMC, Rm. 114 Moreau Hall, Sponsored by ND/SMC COTH, free 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Receptors for Steroid Hormones and Their Action, Prot: Bert O'Malley, M.D., Galvin Life Science Auditorium, Sponsored by Department ofBiology, 

•7 
p.m., 9 p.m., & 11 p.m. -Film, "Monty Pyt· hon's Now for Something Completely Different" Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Union , $1.00 

•7 
p.m. -Lecture, "Blue Collar/Roman Collar: The Church's Response, Rev. Patrick Sullivan, C.S.C., Hayes-Healy Auditorium, Sponsored by Campus Ministry 

•7 
p.m. -Meeting, All those interested in Peace March in New York this summer as part of U.N. Disarmament conference LaFortune Social Con­cerns Alcove, 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Knowledge of Objects", Donald Davidson, Galvin Life Science Auditorium, 

•8 
p.m.-Seminar, "Is There a Population Explo­sion?", Dr. Linda Hudgins, ND, Rm. 117 O'Shaughnessy Hall, Sponsored by Thomas More Society, 

•8 
p.m. -Speaker, Fellwship of Christian Ath­letes Forum with N.D. hockey coach Lefty Smith, Zahm Hall Chapel, All are invited. 


T.V. Tonight 
7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8:00p.m. 
9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10:00p.m. 
10:30 ll:OOp.m. 
11:30p.m. 
12:00a.m. 12:30p.m. 
16 MASH 22 CBS News 28 joker's Wild 34 The MacNeil/Lehrer Report 16 The Muppet Show 22 Family Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 16 Real People 
22 Herbie, The Love Bug 28 Greatest American Hero 34 just A King 16 Factsofllk 22 CBS Special: Dukes ofHazzard 28 The Fall Guy 34 Middletown 16 Teachcn Only 16 Quincy 28 Dynasty 34 Boley, Oklahoma: Alive and Well 16 NcwsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 'The Dick Cavett Show 16 The Tonight Show 22 CBS Movie: "Bees" 28 ABC News NlghtUne 34 Captioned ABC News 28 Love Boat 16 Late Night with David Letterman 
,.._ 



S_~orts 
First round action conttnues m tourney· 
ByWRLHARE In other strong individual perfor­and DAVE DZIEDZIC mances, Mike Marrone hit on eight Sports Writers of his fifteen shots to lead "2C Losers" to a 21-9 victory over "John Cold, windy, and most important­Belushi and ...." Warren Wright ly, snow-less conditions greeted yes­made seven ofhis eleven shots as the terday's participants in Bookstore "Space Cadets" shot 53 percent Basketball action. from the field and blasted "Blimp 
john Breen may have been 4-of-26 and Its 4 Pilots," 21-4. from the field at the time, but that did not stop him from firing a turn­around jumper to win a 26-24 deci­
BOOKSTORE XI 
sion for "Tamar and the Wasted Seeds" over "The Guzinya Brothers." "The turnaround is my Pat Beshel was 8-of-12 as best shot," said Breen afterwards. "M.C.O.B." defeated "Cathy Ray's 
The "Seeds" did not impress many, Proud Peacocks,~' 21-8. Matt Ahlers however, shooting a disasterous 26-was 8-10 in a sixteen point win for of-100 from the field. "Doggie Style or ...." 
In a hard-fought game in the eve­"Digger's NIT Bids" downed 
ning at Lyons Court 12, "Buster "Sadat and I Love a Parade" behind Hymen, ..." surprised "Aggravated Tom Mahoney's 8-of-12 shooting. Assault III" 25-23. Rob Ebert scored Chris Needles scored on seven ofhis 
Tbe "Nude Waterskiers for Christ," shoum here 21-8. For otherfirst-round results, see story atleft.

eight points and Steve Whitmyer thirteen shots attempted as 
In white, gave a valiant effort In yesterday's (Photo by Rudy Perez)

tallied seven for the victors. "Restless Shade of Moose Control" 

Bookstore action, butfell to "The Smooth Ones,"

Dan Sullivan hit on 7-of-8 from the bounced "Panther Hogs" 21-13. field to lead "Haywood jablomi And, in the novelty game of the af­Now" to a 21-5 romp over "Cracked ternoon, the heaviest team in the 
Assistant Coach 
Wiedt ..." Bob Cronin fired in 12-453-team field, "Meat Packers", was of-23 shots as "You're in Trouble" tattoed by "Lou's Legacy II", 21-3. destroyed "Fewmets" by the same Together, the "Packers" weighed 
score. "T.D. Express" handed "The 1200 lbs. for an average weight of 
.Lichtenberg switches to backfield 

Bumblers" a 2I -8 defeat behind 240 lbs. Quinn Stepan's 9-of-19 shooting. Mark Illig, captain for the By KELLY SULLIVA..~ multiple offense brought in by the yards with a 4.4 average, and Bell 
James Tillitson scored seven points "Packers", made two of his fifteen Sports Writer new coaching regime proved to be a _totaled 512 yards and posted a 5.6 to lead "The Smooth Ones" to an shots to lead his team. "We were all little too multiple. As the season mark. easy win over a crowd favorite, out of shape," explained Illig. "That, Last spring's promise of more wore on, it was simplified. The ranks have been a little 
"Nude Waterskiers for Christ." Brian and the wind hurt us." wide-open football excited most This year, offense coordinator depleted this spring. Running with 
Reimer led the losers with two Notre Dame fans, but seemed to Tom Lichtenberg says that the the track team has forced Bell to
See BOOKSTORE, page 9

points. confuse Notre Dame's players. The modified multiple offense is here to miss some practice time, and Chris stay. "I don't think we'll ever get Smith, who lettered as a rookie, has back up to the complexity we had moved to linebacker. As a result, last spring," he e~.plains. "We're senior Rodney Morris (5-10, 210), a

Badweather 
definitely not as multiple, as far as converted fullback, is seeing a lot of our number of formati< ;ns. But we action. junior Tom Merrick is also in feel we're utilizing our personnel a ~he backfield picture.




Irish split twin billatPurdue 
little better now." There have been some casualties

By ED KONRADY In the first gaii'e, Bryan Smith im­In the second game, Purdue Spring Football '82 
from the cutback. Lichtenberg says

Sports Writer proved his record to 3-1 as he went opened with a three-run first inning the coaches eliminated some of thethe distance on the mound. The 
as senior Bill Matre never really got 
offensive verbage and terminology,

A spur-of-the-moment road trip to senior hurler was backed with three control ofhis pitches. "We could play any one of our 
and, for all practical purposes, backs," says Lichtenberg, who'd likePurdue provided the only action for solid hitting performances by Rick "We hit the ball well," said Coach scrapped the wingback position. 

to have two potential starters at eachthe Notre Dame baseball team over Chryst, Jim Cameron and Tim Larry Gallo, "but a strong wind held "We've gotten away from that be­position.

Easter break, as its three scheduled Ambrey. in four very solid shots that probably cause having two wide-outs on of­"We've got to do a lot of work ongames were cancelled due to in­Chryst contributed three hits, would have been homers any other fense is more in line with what we're
clement weather. including two doubles, and drove in day. Purdue's pitcher made good improving technique at this point, 
trying to do," says the coach. "We're

runs. but the players are picking things up
The Irish split a doubleheader two Cameron, coming off a pitches when he had to. 
spending more time with the pas­more quickly now. Everything is notwith the Boilermakers, winning the shoulder injury, drove in two runs "We just didn't play well. There sing game this spring, and we're 

opener 9-3, before dropping the with a triple and Ambrey drove in weren't any errors, but the pitching so completely new anymore. As fur lll!ol~H<;ilp, 6-0. three runs with three singles. going to do more drop back than last as the understanding ofassignments,
just wasn't there." 
year." 
we're definitely ahead of last

... 
The Irish record stands at 8-7, but 
Lichtenberg had a bigger hand in spring."with their split against the Boiler­
the passing attack last year as quar­IRISH. ITEMS -Before breaking

makers, they have won six of their 
terback and receiver coach. Al­for Easter, the team held a

last seven ballgames. 
though retaining the position of scrimmage last Wednesday in the
For a while, it looked like the only 
offensive coordinator, he tutors the Stadium, marking the seventh of 20 

action the team was going to see was 
backs this season. His job right now allotted workouts. Quarterbacks 

on television. A road game against 
is to give everyone a fair shot. And 

Blair Kiel, Ken Karcher and Jim Bethel was cancelled, a home with the kind of depth the Irish en­
O'Hara all rotated with the No. 1 

doubleheader against Purdue had to joy in the backfield (the top nine 
unit. Kiel directed the longest drive be cancelled, and an away game rushers return), that's a difficult as­
(highlighted by some big Greg Bell 

against Ball State also had to be signment. 
gains), but the day's only TO waspostponed. 

"We're trying to evaluate each negated by a penalty ...Before the 
Purdue's coach called Gallo Sun­
one as equally as we can," Lichten­scrimmage was through, sophomore

day, however, and the irish were 
berg says. "That's really what spring Mike Golic, who is battling junior

able to take advantage of the good 
ball is all about. We're finding the as­jon Autry at defensive end, worked 

condition of Purdue's field to 
sets ofeach individual. All the backs his way up to the first 

squeeze in two games. 
are alternating and seeing action team ...Practices are slated for five
Gallo is excited about this Wed­
with the first unit." 

straight days this week, including anesday's game against Wisconsin. The fullback battle figures to be a 
full-scale scrimmage this Saturday. 


"People say that a split on the road is tight one again. Senior john good," he said, "and I'm glad we're Sweeney ( 6-2, 225 ), a three-year finally able to play. We should play 
starter, has th~ edge on experience, well against Wisconsin, especially 
but classmate Larry Moriarty ( 6-2, since we're at home. 
235) and sophomore Mark Brooks 


INSIDE: 
"We feel confident, but the 

( 6-3, 215) boast equal talent. Badgers have a good ballclub. They 
Plays were sent in with the ful­played in the prestigious California­
lbacks last fall, so all three shared the 

Buchanan injury

Riverside tournament, and beat an 
load. Sweeney and Moriarty general­excellent Brigham Young team. 
ly split time at No. 1, and both ran They've had a lot of snow up north, 

--page 10
4.7 yards per carry. Brooks averaged 

and I'm sure they are as anxious to 
5.2 yards. play as we are. 
Tri-captain Phil Carter (5-10, "It will be two tough games," Gal­
193), a senior, is the incumbent at 


Bookstore results 

lo concluded, "but after our tailback, but he'll have a fight on his weekend games with DePauw hands. junior Greg Bell ( 6-0, 205) is (Saturday) and Indiana State 

&pairings
back at that spot after last season's 

(Sunday), we finish the season at stint at wingback. The two were home, which will be a strong ad­
Notre Dame's leading ground­


--page 9

vantage for us." 
gainers in 1981. Carter amassed 727 







