
,~tepan dedication -pages 6-7 

VOL. XVII, NO. 27 the independent ~tlllknt new~paper ~lT\·ing notre dame and ~aint man·~ MONDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1982 

searched for clues to the seven kil­lings. 
Authorities were checking on several leads in the investigation, including a shoplifter arrested in late August for stealing Tylenol and reports of suspicious customers at stores where the poison was found on shelves, Attorney General Tyrone Fahner said yesterday. Police artists were sent out to inter­view employees. 
Also, two police officers who picked up what are believed to have been Tylenol capsules in a parking lot became ill the next day, and au­thorities ran tests to see if the capsules contained cyanide. 
Fahner said authorities believe the poison was placed on shelves "probably the day before" the first three deaths were reported Wed­nesday. 
"It is an act of a random murderer 
who filled the capsules with cyanide 
and then placed them in the stores," 
said Fahner, who is heading a Task 
Force ofsome 75 investigators from 
Panelsees needfor liberal arts 
By AMY STEPHAN ness and engineering schools portant for professional courses to News Staff offered integrated seminars which deal with the historical aspects of are no longer available because, in the field as well as state-of-the-art in­
Questions concerning the value part, ofincreased specialization. formation. and practicality of a liberal educa­According to James Carberrv of 
Janet Smith, an instructor in the
tion were discussed at a Panel the College of Engineering, s~me 
Program of Liberal Studies, was
Forum on Liberal Education Satur­professional students enroll in 
chairperson ofthe forum, which afso
day sponsored by the Thomas More humanities courses to fill in gaps in 
Society of Notre Dame. their curriculum. included Charles Wegener of the The usefulness ofa liberal arts cur­Engineering students at Notre University of Chicago. The seminar riculum for students intending to Dame are required to take 24 hours took place in the Galvin Life Science 
become engineers was the major of humanity courses, but only six of auditorium. topic ofdiscussion. these hours lie outside of the re­According to Walter Nicgorski, quired curriculum. 
Cyanide threat 
chairman of the Program of Liberal Carberry recommends adding six 
Seven die 


Tylenol investigation continues 
CHICAGO ( AP) -The killer who 1 5 state, federal and local agencies with regular Tylenol. 
poisoned seven people by putting including the FBI. Forty-three state The first two batches implicated, 
cyanide in Extra-Strength Tylenol chemists were working around-the­lots MC2880 and 1910MD, were 
bottles is believed to have tilled the clock in the investigation. recalled nationwide by the manufac­
capsules with poison at home and Fahner said evidence indicates a turer, McNeil Consumer Products 
then placed the bottles prominently single person "went around the Co., a subsidiary of Johnson & 
in stores, authorities said yesterday. Chicago area salting the store Johnson. 
The form ofcyanide that killed the shelves with one bottle of con· The last known victim, 35-year­
seven random victims is available in laminated Tyelonol (at a time)." The old flight attendant Paula Prince, 
school chemistry labs and metal stores were as much as 40 miles was found dead Friday night in her 
plants, the lllinois attorney general apart in Chicago and its northern Chicago apartment, a few steps from 
said as chemists and detectives and western suburbs. a 2"1 capsule bottle ofExtra-Strength 
Saint Mary's juniors enter nursing program 
By SUSAN O'HARA described the field of nursing as News Staff "one of women's greatest gifts, calling for dedication, courage, 
Fourty-four Saint Mary's patience, and faith." juniors were honored Saturday Martucci noted that the evening in the eighth. annual women who are enrolled in the Nurse's Capping ceremony held nursing program have dedicated in the Church of Loretto. themselves to a specific way of 
The ceremony, which lasted life which, in some instances, re­nearly an hour, commended quires great personal sacrifice juniors who have been accepted and transition. into the nursing program. To be During the ceremony the 
accepted a student must main­women recited the Nightingale tain a solid "B" average her fresh­Pledge which serves as a symbol 
,· ~: ... J 
man and sophomore years. of their devotion and loyalty to 
In her welcoming .speech, Dr.' their chosen profession. Mary Martucci, chairman of the The cermony was followed by Saint Mary's Nusing Department, a reception in the dining hall. 

"Tylenol is as much a victim as those who died," he said. "Somebody just picked on this product." 
There have been no ransom demands. Fahner said investigators believe the killer bought or stole Tylenol from a store, took it home, filled the capsules with cyanide and placed the bottles in the front of store displays so they would be bought quickly. 
Police also said yesterday that a fourth batch number of the capsules was involved in the deaths. A woman who died in Winfield, a far west sub­urb of Chicago, had capsules from lot MB 1833. There was initial confu­sion over the batch number in that case because she apparently mixed Extra-Strength Tylenol capsules Tylenol she had bought at a nearby drug store. Authorities believe she died Wednesday. 
All the other contaminated bottles contained 50 capsules. The pills in Miss Prince's apart­
ment were from a third batch, lot I80 IMA. That batch has not been recalled and neither has the fourth. 
So far, tlve bottles of con­taminated Tylenol have been found, and each was traced to a different store. 
Fahner cited that fact and the adulteration of bottles from four batches in saying investigators believe the tampering was not done in factories or distribution centers handling the best-selling over-the-
See 1YLENOL page 3 
Studies, the study of liberal arts hours of structured humanities develops the human skills ofthought courses to this curriculum. 

ND bookstore removes capsules
and communication. skills which he According to Nicgorski, one may considers both necessary and practi­argue that humanities courses are By BOB VONDERHEIDE The infirmary does dispense back to the store's warehou;,e. cal in today's professional world. not really nccessary to the develop­News Editor Regular Tylenol, but joyce said no Hook's and Revco drugstores said 
He cited a survey of practicing en­ment of communication skills be­student has requested the pain they removed all Tylenol products gineers in which 95 percent cause these skills can be developed Extra Strength Tylenol was reliever since the cyanide poisoning Thursday. Martin's Drugstore said responded that the most important in the context ofother topics. removed from the shelves of the was discovered last week. Only the they have removed Extra Strength skills in their professional careers Nicgorski added that the study of Notre Dame bookstore Thursday, extra strength medication has been Tylenol from their shelves. were writing and speaking skills. liberal arts not only devdops useful and the capsules have never been implicated in the investigation. The Obsen•er was unable to con­
According to John Houck of the communication skills, but also com­available from the intirmary, Univer­The South Bend division of the tact the Indiana Food and Drug Ad­College of Business Administration, ·. pds one to think about the great sity oftkials said Friday. Food and Drug Administration ministration in Indianapolis for there seems to be a movement 1 formative issues of life. Questions Father John Van Wolvlear. vice reported no incidents locally involv­further infortnation about the dis­among institutions of higher educa­i concerning morals and values in a president for student affairs, had an ing Tylenol. There have been some tribution ofthe suspected Tylenol in tion toward specialization at the changing society will confront the administrative assistant contact the unconfirmed reports, however, of Northern Indiana. cost of general education, despite student throughout his or her life, he bookstore when he first heard the people buying the suspected lot Thus far, investigators have 
numbers in the Michiana area. 
the importance of communication noted. news about the poisoned medica­limited the poisoning to four lot skills in technical professions. tion. Brotqer Conan Moran, Area drugstores and supermarkets numbers of Extra Strength Trlenol:
The study of humanities will aid

Houck maintained that this bookstore manager, said he removed Extra Strength Tylenol MC 2880, 1910 MD (or MD 1910),
the student when faced with such from their shelves when Tylenol

specialization is taking place among removed all Tylenol products from MBI833, and 1801MA. But inves­
questions, Nicgorski maintained. 

individuals within the universities as the shdves Thursday afternoon. manufacturer MacNeil Consumer tigators believe that the medicine
However, as Houck noted, liberal

well as in the schools themselves. In "We never sold much of the stuff Products Co. issued a national recall was tampered with by a single per­
arts courses are sddom concerned 

oftwo lot numbers Thursday.
order to research and publish in anyway," Moran said, adding that son, and that not every capsule of
with questions that students will ac­

specific areas, it is necessary for there is no way he can tell if the Many stores said they had the suspected lot numbers was
tually confront.

faculty members to specialize. bookstore ever handled any of the removed all Tylenol products. poisoned.
He stated that more modern,.
As faculty members become more suspected lot numbers. Aldi Supermarket in South Bend Any student possessing a bottle
practical problems should be

specialized they become less likely Hariet Joyce, registered nurse at reported having a case of 72 bottles with a suspected lot number should
studied along with classical and 

to want, or to be able, to teach in­the infirmary, said that the intirmary of Extra Strength Tylenol with a contact the Food and Drug Ad­
general thought. Conversly, he

tegratcd courses. has never dispensed Extra Strength suspected lot number. The Tylenol ministration in South Bend at 236­Several ycars ago, both the busi-also memioned that it might be im-T} !enol in capsule form. was immediately removed and sent 8277. 
~-~---­
t~ ~--~-~ ~~~~-----­
-

' ~ 
~ ~ 


NewsBrie_b 
By The Obsen•er and The Associated Press 

Sudan announced yesterday that it is prepared to send troops to aid Iraq against Iran's latest offensive in 
the 2-year-old Persian Gulfwar. Saudi Arabia warned Iran faces a "no 
holds barred" war with the entire Arab world if it does not respond 
to mediation efforts. Radio Baghdad claimed yesterday that Iraqi 
forces repulsed a third Iranian attack into Iraq in as many days while 
Iraqi warplanes made "direct and very effective hits" against Iranian 
positions. The broadcast said Iranian units tried to cross into Iraq 
near the Iranian city ofSumar, about I00 miles east ofthe Iraqi capi­
tal city. "Our forces intercepted the enemy and after fierce fighting 
that lasted two hours he was forced to retreat, suffering very heavy 
losses in human lives and equipment," the broadcast said. Tehran 
radio, however, claimed "guerrilla groups" backed by artillery had "penetrated enemy territory" yesterday, killing I00 Iraqis and wounding SO others. broadcast said two Iraqi vehicles, three tanks and five large ammunition dumps were destroyed. -AP 
Aparachutistfell3,000 feetto his death when a 
smoke bomb and a flag tangled in his parachute lines during an air show in Nacogdoches, Texas, officials say. jeffrey Paul Kaplan, 27, of The Colony, Texas, was pronounced dead on the scene Saturday before 600 spectators, Department of Public Safety spokesman Larry Todd said. Witnesses said Kaplan could not open his backup parachute in time and fell to earth at the East Texas Regional Airport in this East Texas community. Kaplan, a member ofthe Aerial Magic Parachute Club of Dallas, was a veteran of more than I,OOO jumps, Todd said. -AP 
The FBI arrestedtwo more people yesterday in a s1 5 million extortion plot against a Gulf Oil refinery in Baytown, Texas as a reported deadline passed without any new explosions at the facility rocked by a blast four days earlier. john Marvin McBride, 46, and Jill Renee Bird, 36, both of Durango, Colo., were arrested in Durango yesterday on federal arrest warrants charging them with violation of the federal extortion statute, the FBI in Houston said. Two other Durango men were arrested in Arizona on Friday night, and the FBI said the investigation was continuing. Authorities searched for additional bombs yesterday at Gulfs Cedar Bayou plant, 30 miles east of Houston. Five bombs were found at the plant last week after Gulf received a six-page letter Tuesday threatening to blow up the plant, officials said. One bomb exploded harmlessly Thursday as it was being deactivated. The Baytown Sunquoted a source as saying the letter warned that I 0 bombs were hidden in the plant and that the facility would be blown up if the money were not received by midday yesterday. -AP 
Pope John Paul II said yesterday humanity and Earth are in danger because of man's treatment of his environment. Speakingon the eve ofthe feast ofSt. Francis ofAssisi, the pontifftold 4S,OOO people in St. Peter's Square: "The future of humanity and planet Earth are in danger because of the deterioration of the relationship between man and environment, as well as of the rela­tions between men, classes and nations." "It is necessary and urgent that following the example ofthe poor man (St. Francis), one decide to abandon inconsiderate forms ofdomination, capture and custody with respect to all creatures." 
Three army officers arrestedthis weekend in 
Madrid were reported to be planning a military coup for Oct. 27, a day before national elections that are expected to result in a socialist government. The Defense Ministry identified the three officers as Col. Luis Munoz Gutierrez, Col. jesus Crespo Cuspineda and his brother, Lt. Col. jose Crespo Cuspineda, and said they were arrested Saturday for "activities against the security of the state." The newspaperEl Pais, quoting Interior Ministry sources, said yesterday that the three were planning to stage a coup on the eve ofthe general elections. Another daily, Diario 16 said the planned coup was named "Operation Cervantes" and was backed by other right-wing military officers involved in a failed coup attempt on Feb. 23, 1981. 
-AP 
A tentative contract between the United Auto Workers and Chrysler Corp. faces its first big test today when 4,000 workers in Delaware vote on ratification. In Indiana, members of UAW Local 1226 at Indianapolis are scheduled to vote Friday. Mem­bers of Indianapolis UAW local 500 will vote Oct. 12, union representatives said, adding that no dates have been set for locals in New Castle and Kokomo. Joe Games, president of Local 1183 at the Chrysler assembly plant in Newark, Del., said he was unsure of today's outcome. "It probably will pass, but no one really knows," he said after attending a meeting of local presidents and shop commit­tee chairmen at Solidarity House, UAW headquarters. The fact that the contract does not contain a big wage boost and does not include an immediate wage increase will be troublesome, he said. -AP 
Next year, Tuskegee Institute will become 
the first predominantly black college in the nation to offer a bac­helor's degree in aerospace engineering, officials say. The program and an aerospace center will be built with a 59 million grant from the 
U.S. Department ofEducation. On Saturday, President Reagan signed a bill containing the grant rider. "This will enable us to play a strong role in increasing the number of minorities in high technology fields," Tuskegee President Benjamin F. Payton said, noting that blacks comprise only three percent of graduates in aerospace and aeronautical engineering. -AP 
Pleasant today. Highs in the mid 70's. Clear and con­tinued cool tonight around SO. Sunny and warm tomorrow. Highs near 80. 
Monday, October 4, 1982 -page 2 
Can Maggie hold on? 
Tonight's talk by the Right Honorable Sally Oppen­heim, a Tory member of the British Parliament and a minister in Margaret Thatcher's cabinet, addresses a dramatic period in recent British history: the Falklands crisis and its aftermath. 
Oppenheim has good material with which to work in her presentation, sponsored by the Student Union Academic Commission and slated for 8 this evening in the Library Auditorium. Nostalgia for an empire upon which "the sun never sets," accompanied the British victory in the Falklands, and was orchestrated by a gutsy, but politically shrewd, lady who successfully avoided premature retirement. But...can the Iron Maiden hold on? 
The drama began late last March as 4,000 Argentines captured the Falklands, a group of windswept, barren islands under British rule. When it became obvious that theirs wasn't a social call, Britain's dusty state mac­hinery shifted into gear. Queen Elizabeth met with government leaders in a privy council at Windsor Castle. The preceding day, Saturday, Parliament con-_ vened for their first weekend session since the Suez Canal crisis in 1956. 
This was not the standard procedure for foriegn policy decisions. The drama 

Perhaps some wisdom was gained with that popularity. Two other potential Falklands crises exist in the crown colonies of Gibralter and Hong Kong. Thatcher sought to avoid another conflict when she met with Chinese leaders two weeks ago, and talked of turning Hong Kong over to the Chinese when Britain's current agreement runs out, in exchange for a con­tinuance of British administration ofthe city. 
The major question in post-Falklands British politics is whether Thatcher can maintain her popularity until the parliamentary elections that must be held by 1984. Mrs. Oppenheim's answer tonight should be interest­ing. 
Thatcher's conservative policies had been to blame for her low ratings last spring. The prime minister is dedicated to fighting infla­
heated up. tion at the cost of higher un­
As we all know, the con­employment. Deficit is a sensus of the war councils word not found in her was to muster all Britain's vocabulary, which means military might and send it everyone has to keep their south in a task force. After belts tightened. Last spring, the announcement, pints of Britons, three million of ale were raised in pubs, and them out of work, said they shouts of "Long live the were running out of empire!" echoed through­notches. 
out the realm. The public opinion polls 
If this wasn't enough, in­reflected this sentiment. If cluded in the task force was the parliamentary elections Her Majesty's son, Prince had been held in March, Andrew. What more could either the Labour party or the moviemakers ask for? the upstart Social The farewell scenes as the Democratic-Liberal party al­~ask force steamed out of liance (depending on the Portsmouth featured an poll) would have toppled 
outpooring of national pride and affection that Hollywood would be hard-pressed to recreate. 
The leadiAg lady inspired the task force when she quoted another Iron Maiden, Queen Victoria, who had said "Failure? The possiblities do not exist." How could Britain suffer defeat with Maggie at the helm? 
Very easily, it seemed, when the first casualty reports came in and the British realized the difficulty of their task. Mrs. Thatcher was reminded of this daily in Parlia­ment, as opposition Labour Leader Michael Foot grudg­ingly agreed to back Mrs. Thatcher but warned her that the Labour party would not give her a blank check in the crisis. 
The opposition in this case was formidable. The Labour wolves had shamed Foreign Secretary Lord Car­rington into resignation at the onset of the crisis. Mrs. Thatcher would have to mind her p's and q's if she wanted to maintain residence at 10 Downing Street.' 
Mind her p's and q's she did, and when she won, Thatcher's public support rose dramatically. (She seemd almost as popular as Princess Diana.) 

the Tories. 

The Social Democratic-Liberal alliance could give Thatcher some problems here. Beginning last Fall with Shirley Williams' parliamentary by-election victory at Croyden, the alliance had caught fire. A few Tory and Labour MP's moved over to the alliance, and when Roy Jenkins, the uncrowned leader ofthe Social Democrats, won at Hillhead, a working-class district in Glasgow, the future seemed bright for the new, middle-of-the-road party. 
The alliance, however, lost some of its luster this summer because of a by-election defeat and party in­fighting, and the Labour party is now in danger ofsplit­ting into moderate and "Trotskyite" factions. 
Meanwhile, Thatcher's stock has risen as a result of the Falklands. But will this persist? The post-Falklands euphoria should fade with time. If Mrs. Thatcher's economic policies remain the same, will public senti· ment turn against her once again? Can Maggie hang on and win in 1984? The drama continues. Tonight, maybe Mrs. Oppenheim can tell us what's in store in the next act. 
The Observer Design Editor..... ..................... Kay llolland Design Assistant.... .. Tom Sapp Layou/ Sluff. .............. Cathyann Rqnoltb 1)•pesetters.... ................ Gaffer /'Vews Editor ......................... Dave Sarphie CopJ' Editor ............................ Kathy Murry Sports litlilor.. ... Chris Net"dlcs Feutures LU.J'OUI .. .. ........Joe Musumeci SMC/Jay lidilor __ Tari Hrown 7)•pist... ........... Mary Beth Poru:r .\1onica Gugk Ad Design..... . ................... Mary Torchia Photographer ........................ Diana Hutler Supplement Layout ..........Joe. Dave. Kay Guest Appearances... .... Pete, Roger. John. Kenny. Kieth(in spirit). and, ofcourse, Sundry ~ It is for us, the livin~. rather to be ded· icated here to the unfinished work which rher who t<>ught here have !loO nohly advanced--Abraham Lincoln-­ 
The Observer tUSPS ~98 '.J20t '' publtshed Monday through FrtC1ay and un horne lootbatt Saturddys exce[Jt dunng exarn dnd VdCdtiUil pt•nuds The Observer ts publ1sned by lh<• sludents of Notre Da·ne and Satnl Marys Cut lege Subsu•plruns ·nay be pure haspcJ lor S25 per year tS 15 per serneslert by wrtltng The Observer P 0 Bux 0 Notre Darne lndtana 46556 The Observer " a ·ne•nb(•r "' The Associated Press All repr.•du< '" "' rtghts are reserved Second class puslagl· par<1 at Nulrt' Darne lnd«Hld .\6556  


~~-------~---~­

--~-------c ~------·---------­
~--iY ·~ 
i: 

The Observer 
Discusses Falklands 
British cabinet member to speak 
By SONYA STINSON 
SeniorStaffReporter 
Alecture series focusing on politi­cal themes in current events, the arts, and journalism begins tonight with an appearance by Sally Oppen­heim. member of the British Parlia­ment and the cabinet of Margaret Thatcher. 
Oppenheim will focus on the Falkland Islands war in her discus­sion of the current government in Great Britain. Her arrival at Notre Dame will be the first stop on a two­week lecture tour in the United States. 
Student Union Academic Com­missioner, Linda Powers, conceived the political theme of the lecture series, explaining that she wanted the lectures to deal with the effects of popular culture on our percep­tions of politics. Powers also believes the election year makes it a timely theme. 
"I think it's very important that we become ::tware of what's going on before Nov. 4," she said. 
In thinking of plans for the series during the summer, Powers said she "was trying to get issues that wouldn't be passe by time we returned to school." 
The series will continue with a lecture on Oct. 9 by Thomas Hauser, author ofMissing. who will discuss politics in cinema. The film Missing will be shown on Oct. 12 and 13 in anticipation of Hauser's visit. 
Robert Hughes, a senior editor of Time and noted art critic, will speak 
LOS ANGELES, Cal. (AP) ­Eleven shy and tired Vietnamese children of mixed heritage stopped in Los Angeles yesterday on the way to new homes and reunions with fathers they barely know. 
The children make up the largest group allowed out ofthe communist nation under a reunion program set up by eight U.S. volunteer organiza­tions in 1979. 
"I am very shy," said Mong Hao Ho, an 11-year-old arriving on the plane. "I had a great time," he told 
the welcoming crowd in  Los  An­ 
geles.  
The  children  are  headed  for  

homes in or near Seattle, Atlanta, Portland, Ore., San Diego, Sacramento, Tucson, Ariz. and Dal­las. 
The youngsters arrived in Hong Kong on Saturday night from Bangkok. They flew to the Thai capi­tal from Ho Chi Minh City, formerly on "Art, Politics, and Propaganda" on Nov. 16. 
Author and syndicated columnist Richard Reeves will discuss media politics on Dec. 9. 
The series' final speaker is Charles Mannatt, Chairman of the Democratic National Committee. t A date of Mannatt's appearance has not yet been confirmed. 
Powers said she hopes the lecture 


byTOMMOWLE 
News Staff 
America faces a glaring deficiency of leaders in business, industry, and government, at a time when we desperately need them, according to William 0. Miller, International President of Toastmaster's Interna­tional. 
The key to developing leaders, Miller said, is to train them in the qualities of leadership, especially communications. Toastmaster's is a worldwide organization devoted to teaching people to speak, listen, and think. 
Miller, a 1947 Notre Dame graduate and branch chiefof the ad­ministration department of the 
Nuclear  Regulatory  Commission,  
spoke  at  a  meeting  of the  Saint  
Mary's  Toastmaster's  Club,  which  



' ' Tylenol
' 

Continuedfrom page 1 
counter pain remedy. Authorities have determined that the bottles containing the poison came from several manufacturing locations and didn't cross paths during distribu­tion. 
Fahner said authorities confirmed that the poison was potassium cyanide, white crystals that are used for metal extraction tion, electroplating, heat-treating steel and other chemical purposes. 
"That's another one of the problems in the puzzle," Fahner said in· an interview with Cable News Network. "It's commercially available. It's a kind of cyanide that people have in high school or col­lege chemistry labs or in metal tlnishing plants." 
l:.s. Food and Drug Adminstration investigators late Friday found a bottle from lot MC2HHO containing cyanide-laced capsules on the shelves of a retail outlet in suburban Schaumburg. Investigators hoped to Saigon, on Thursday. 
They are the children of Viet­namese mothers and American men stationed in what was South Vietnam before that nation fell to the North Vietnamese in 1975. 
None of the children's escorts would identify their charges in­dividually and only a few youngsters could be reached in the crush that followed their 45 minute clearance in U.S. customs. The escorts were to deliver their charges to friends or relatives of the families that planned to make new homes for them. 

But among those believed to be on board were a boy, Nguyen Quoc Viet, 11, his sister, Nguyen Thingoc Loan, 10, and their mother, Nguyen Thi Sau. The children ofan American civilian mechanic in Vietnam who has died, the youngsters were going to Sacramento, were they were to be met by their grandparents. 
obtain tingerprints trom the bottle, the only one so far that wasn't in the possession ofa victim. 
The FDA has urge<! consumers nationwide not to use Extra­Strength Tylenol for the time being, andJohnson & Johnson has offered a 5100,000 reward for information leading to the arrest and conviction ofwhoever was responsible. 
Task force chemists filled empty Tylenol capsules with cyanide to see how long it would take for the highly corrosive poison to discolor or par­tially disintegrate the shells, giving officials an estimate of when the contaminated bottles were planted. 
Fahner said the two officers who 
became sick had picked up capsules 
they found scattered in a parking lot. 
"The medical people tell me that 
if you don't ingest cyanide. just get­
ting it on your skin or in your system 
by breathing it could cause the kind 
of illness these two people have ex­
perienced," Fahner said. 
Three of the poisoning victims were buried Saturday. 

series will help fulfill the academic commission's goal of providing a chance for students to voice ques­tions and challenge views about im­portant issues. 
The series is sponsored by the Student Union. All lectures are scheduled for 8 p.m. in the Library Auditorium, except for the Nov. 16 lecture. which will be in the Annen­berg Auditorium at 7::30 p.m.. 
Toastmaster describes leadership deficiencies 
was celebrating its second year of existence. 
Miller noted that while women have not yet acquired a very large percentage of leadership positions in the U.S., their status is improving, especially in government. 
His advice to women was the same as he to men : work as hard as possible achieve a position ofleader­ship. Women also have to fight tradi­tion in their struggle. 
Miller also detailed other qualities 

of a leader: he/she has the courage 
to make decisions according to his 
principles, he/she admits his 
mistakes and accepts them as part of 
life, he is consistent in his 
philosophy and style; and most im­
portantly, he understands people. 
A leader must convince others 

that he is trying to do what is right 
for them. 
G.J. children 
Vietn.atnese arrive to neUJ honte 
Another passenger wasJean Marie 

Tanous, 1 5, whose father, Gary Tanous of Vancouver, Wash., went to Ho Chi Minh City for the flight. Jean Marie is Tanous' only child. He met Jean Marie's mother while he was a civilian contractor in Vietnam. They are now divorced. 
In San Diego, Luis Villegas, who has not seen his Vietnamese wife and their three children in seven years, said they would also be on the plane. They were to travel to San Diego yesterday night. 
Seven-year-old Khieu Thi My Phil­lips was on the plane. She was born a few days before the city fell to the Communists and was too weak to travel, so her parents had to leave her behind. She will rejoin her fami­ly in Fairburn, Ga. 

This Week Only Pick Up a Coupon from Cashier 
mon. 

-Fri . . South Dining Hall ll:OOam -2:00pm 


Snndwiches mQde to Order 
25 ~off on your Next Sandwich Order Good until Jan. 1, 1983 
~---------~-------._..------------~----------____,..._.,........ 
t 
TheObserver Monday, October 4, 1982 -page 4 
t 
Education ot women 



SMC lecture studies humanities 

ByFRANCES NOLAN AND ANNE MONASlYRSKI 
News Staff 
"The Muses, The Arts, and Other Ancient Sisters," a three day lecture series studying the liberal arts and the education ofwomen, was held at 
Saint Mary's this weekend. 
Sheldon Rothblatt, Protessor of History at the College of Letters and Sciences at the University ofCalifor­nia, Berkeley, delivered a lecture en­titled "The Carriers of Civilization." Rothblatt described liberal educa­tion as an important carrier of education througout our history. 
Marion Miller, Associate Protessor of Art at Mount Holyoke College, conducted a workshop entitled "Calling Up the Muse, the Image Within: A Workshop in Story, Myth, and Art." During the workshop, Mil­ler urged teachers to become active­ly involved with their students' education. The workshop dealt with the value ofa liberal arts education. 
Judith Ochshorn, Associate Professor of Women's Studies and Director of the Women's Studies Program at the University of South Florida, delivered a speech on "Feminine Images of the Divine in the Ancient Near East". 


ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS 
We are a leader in fast, exciting fields ... aircraft, missiles, Fire Control Systems etectronlcs, automation. Electrical engineers play a vital • Radar 
A slide show and lecture entitled "Some Aspects of Women's Essence Revealed in the Legends and Sculpture ofTribal Africa" was given by Ann van de Graaf, artist and native ofCape Town, South Africa. 
Helena Foley, Assistant Professor of Classics, Barnard College, described women's social role in an­cient (;reece as "limited" and "submissive" to men. Foley went on to say that "women in Athens were legal minors...who spent their lives under male guardians and who were completely excluded from the political and cultural part of society." Foley's talk was entitled "The Conception of Women in At­henian Drama". 
"Women and Men: A Vase Pain­ter's View" was the title of a talk given by Robert Sutton, Assistant Professor of Classical Studies at Loyola University ofChicago. 
Michael Murrin, a professor in the Department of English at the Divinity School and the College, University of Chicago, spoke on "Duessa and the Beast." 
"Dido, Beatrice, and the Ancient Flame of Love" was Peter Hawkins' topic. Hawkins is an associate professor ofreligion and literature at Yale University's Divinity School. 
role in our continued growth and industry leadership. • Forward Looking Infrared, Television, or Laser Opportunities for future-minded Electrical Engineers are Technology available in these challenging career fields: 
Avionics Test Requirements Analysis Guidance and Control Mechanics • Radar 
• 
Digital Flight Control Design/Analysis • Displays 

• 
Inertial Navigation System Analysis • Inertial Systems 

• 
Software Design Development and Validation • Flight Computers 

• 
Trajectory Analysis • Communication 

• 
Redundant Digital Signal Processing If you're ready to get your career off the ground, McDonnell 

• 
Filtering and Control Techniques Douglas would like to talk with you. Sign up at your Reliability placement office for a personal interview. Here is the date 

• 
Data Analysis we'll be on campus: 

• 
Circuit Analysis 


• 
Part Stress Analysis Monday, 

• 
Failure Mode and Effect Analysis 



October 11, 1982 /
Electronics 

• 
Automatic Test Equipment 


• 
Embedded Microprocessor Architecture/Design MCDONNELL DOUGLcY' 

• 
Digital, Analog and RF Equipment/Circuit Design An equal opportunity employer ~ 

• 
Hardware and Software U.S. Citizenship required 


"The Blazon of Sweet Beauty's Beast" was pre~t:nted by Nancy Vickers, an associate professor of French and Italian at Dartmouth Col­lege. 
Elof Carlson, Distinguished Teaching Professor of Biochemistry at the Stale University of New York 
at  Stony  Brook,  spoke  on  "A  
Biologist's  Retlections  on  the  
Human Condition".  

"Unt:qual Colleagues: Woman's Entrance into the Professions" was a talk given by Miriam Slater, a profes­sor ofhistory at Hampshire College. 
Penny Gill. associate professor of politics at Mount Holyoke College discussed the identity and con­sciousness of women in the world today. Gill said that even today, women are judged by men's stan­dards in a talk entitled "Questions for a future." 
Gill's t1nal remarks closed the con­terence on a positive note. "We have demonstrated (througout the con­vention) the power of liberal arts to truly educate us." As for the future of women, Gill said the goal is not to have "a college of women," but "a college for women." 

Fellowship addresses "non -violence' 
By SCOTT HARDEK 
News Staff 
The only survivors of a nuclear 
holocaust may be the ones pulling 
the triggers, according to the 
secretary of the International Fel­
lowship of Reconciliation. In a 
speech last night sponsored by the 
local chapter of Pax Christi, James 
Forest focused on the actions of the 
Fellowship, a society founded in 
1919 to further the causes of non­
violence. 
Membership in this society en­compasses many different races and faiths, including such famous names as Martin Luther King, Jr., Mahatma Gandhi and, currently, singer Joan Baez. The society is closely linked 
with the Catholic Church and was invited to speak at the United Na­tions second session on disarma­ment. 
Forest emphasized that small actions of violence attract more at­tention than an entire peace move­ment in the media and the public eye. He suggested that violence is in­herent to the operation of any government or state and that dis­
armament goes hand in hand with 
human,rights. 
Joining Forest was Richard Steele, 
a South African native who was im­
prisoned for three months for failure 
to serve in the military. 

Farley Hall celebrates feastday 
farley Hall will observe the HOOth birthday of Saint Francis of Assisi tonight at I 0:00. Tht: feastday mas.'i will be held in the farley chapel. All students and faculty are im·ited to at­tend. 

Buy Observer C'tassijieds 
~: 


Monday, October 4, 1982 -page 5
The Observer 
Archbishop objects 



Solidarity outlaw possible 
WARSAW, Poland (AP) -Arch­bishop jozef Gh:mp. leader of Poland's influential Roman Catholic Church. is taking a tougher stand in defense of Solidarity as the martial law regime mulls plans to outlaw the now-suspended independent union. 
Glemp, criticized in the past tor being too soft on the I0-month-old martial law go\'ernment. "is really setting out some sharp words," a Western diplomatic source said last week. 
"He seems to he really worried about what could happen this month," said the source, who declined to be identified. 
The primate's shift apparently stems from growing speculation that the government will ban all trade unions, including Solidarity, under a new trade union law that is ex-



Ambush injures Israeli soldiers 
BEIRUT, lebanon (AP) -Gun­men ambushed an Israeli troop bus yesterday near a mountain village, and an Israeli army spokesman said there were casualties. lebanese news media said the attackers used rocket-propelled grenades and automatic rifles. 
In Beirut. lebanese newspapers reported that President Amin Gemayel wants to form an interim Cabinet, headed by lebanon's security chief and including other military men, that would have wide powers to impose law and order. 
Several dailies quoted official sources as saying Gemayel would announce his choice for prime min­ister by today. 
U.S. presidential envoy Philip C. Habib was reported to have left Syria to continue his mission to secure withdrawal of all foreign troops from lebanon. Istaeli Foreign Minis­ter Yitzhak Shamir said in New York 
that  Habib  told  him  the  armies  
would  leave  "by  the  end of this  
year."  

The rightist Christian "Voice of lebanon" radio station said an un­known number of Israeli troops were killed or wounded in the attack near Aley, a Moslem-populated town on the Beirut-Damascus highway about 10 miles southeast of the capi~ tal. 
A spokesman for the Israeli press office near Beirut, who would iden­tify himselfonly as Lt. Stuart, said the troops were riding in a civilian bus 
L_ 

peeted to come up for parliamentary debate this month. 
Both the church and Solidarity supporters have spoken against an outright ban ofthe union, which was suspended when martial law was .mposed last Dec. I.-~. But while the ~olidarity underground warned of protests against such a move. the church has, until recently, urged restraint and appealed against any new violence. 
However, last week Glemp said in a interview with editorial writers from the United States that "major disturbances can be expected" if au­thorities outlaw or dismantle Solidarity. 
"I cannot say specifically, but I can assume that the working class will protest heavily," the primate said when asked if riots or protests would follow the elimination of the 
and were attacked at 3:30p.m. (9:30 
a.m. EDT). 
"Voice of lebanon" said Israeli helicopters evacuated soldiers wounded in the attack and a curfew was imposed in the village, about six miles in front ofthe Syrian lines. 
lebanon's state-owned radio said Israeli troops had sealed off Aley. lebanese police said Israeli soldiers and Christian militiamen set up checkpoints around the village. 
It was not clear who was respon· sible for the attack. The Palestine liberation Organization is believed to have about I0,000 fighters among the estimated 25,000 Syrian troops in northern and eastern lebanon. 
A land mine exploded in downtown Beirut. wounding at lea~t six people, but the rest of the city was quiet yesterday. 
The l.ehanese armv set up check-

So\'iet bloc's only independent labor tederation. 
The Western diplomat said Glemp has taken a similar line in talks with ambassadors here, adding that the primate's concern was deep enough to prompt speculation he may can­cel a tour of IZ American cities late this month. 
"A key to his information and the level ofhis concern will emerge ifhe decides to stay home," the diplomat said. 
The church enjoys great prestige as well as almost unheard of privilege in the Polish Communist state. New churches are being built and seminaries are taking on ever more candidates for the priesthood. 
Thus, the church too, has much to lose in any governmental decision that triggers new violence in the streets. 
points on nearly e\'ef}' street corner in east and west Beirut with the aid of the 3,500 U.S., French and Italian peacekeepers who returned to the capital following the Sept. 16-I8 massacre at two Palestinian refugee camps. 
The French-language L'Orient-Le 
jour quoted sources close to Presi­dent Gemayel as saying it appeared almost certain that his ch t oice for prime minister would be the security chief, Brig. Gen. Ahmed EI­Hajj. It said EI-Hajj does no belong to any "political clans." 
An-Nahar did not mention EI-Hajj by name, but said Gemayel most likely will choose someone from outside "the club of former prime ministers." Under Lebanon's power­sharing agreement, Gemayel, a 
Christian. must appoint a Sunni Mos­lem as prime minister. 
!tR!fOII»>!<i\lL} WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 7 p.m. LIBRARY AUDITORIUM GOV. JOHN GILLIGAN v. PROF. CHARLES RICE 
Professor of Law,  
Director of the White Center  Notre Dame Law School  
tor Public Policy Studies,  
Notre Dame Law School  

You can't afford to miss it ! 
Co~sponsored by THE FEDERALIST SOCIETY & THE OBSERVER ~ 
~----~------------~------------------~~------------~----------------~~r 
'••Fr.;;;;,.-;-:.... • .... Ot~~--~.tr~-~ .. ..,..~;.::':'~f~-· •• "'-' ·• --~·'' _.-..ttf'"~...:'~:~~i.?~-~-Q..,.-;,.·~(~-:._,_.,._..,.,::'...-:_; ~~'•"~.;~-~-·...... 
A neU' modern art sculpture noU' sits on tbe East Quad, betrueen Pasqueri/lu West undFlanner Toroer. (Photo by Diana Butler) 
Psycho.· ••· , ·' ·····: H • .. , •. ·, •·!.·\ t1 , iv ., .. , .,._, 
' 1''· ~.~ I'• "-n·,l•,' .. "'!'·•'''1•'11: ··~·'' ·• '" :•"'1'' frl,Ht• · 'l(\ 'lt't'il fq 't'· 
\ 111•": • .,,. ·~t'\'.-• ,).......... -,,,,,., .. t''·t"·'t•·.... :· ·'·\ •.,...... t'.\'1"'-h..'l1 P'•\.'t'fh•·•h;·, 
1'1<1 •'l',h.lt''• •'' ..,,,,,n,-.. "'h.:•" '"': .1'1••· !''•' ldn• h,1..; .~ndt•11 \\'•T'I J.l~ 11 .r 
I t 1·,!'1 ii'J\1 .\n{'hl''\ 1-J,u.., '1"-

Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum Admission ~--lr'()~ll,l3tilr 9pm s z.oo _.j 

(It's Not Just Fot ffiajots Anymote I) 
Join the St. Mary's 

SOCIAL ACTION CLUB 



Next Meeting 

Wednesday Oct. 6 at 7:30p.m. in the President's Board Room leMans Hall 

1 


~-----­
, I '·' 
~· 
The Observer -News Special Monday, October 4, 1982-page 6 
< 
~ 


t: I~ Stepan Chemistry Hall: 
~ . 
L I A neUJ hope, a neUJ challenge 

•.

"".. 
Almighty anti Eter:nal God, u•epraise and thankyoufor your surpassing goodness. For you fashioned the universe and gal'e yourpeople the grace and wisdom to discen1 You, the Creator, in 
·natural order ofcreation. We ask you now to bless Stepan Chemistry Hall. Bless ourfacul~l' and students and bless their research and st1u~}' which will be so great~}' enhanced tbmugh this neu•facility. Bless especial~}' Alfred C. Stepan and all/hose who lol'e and support this Unit•ersity ofOur l.tll~l'-Watch ot•ertmd protectourentire Notre Damefami~)', and may all he strengthened in yourgrace andpeace. We make Ibis prt~)'er tbrougb our Lord 
jesus Christ, your son, wbo lii•es and reigns u•ith You and tbe Holv Spirit, one God, for et•er and et•er. Amen 
Solemn prayer ofhlessing for Stepan Chemistry Hall 
I . 

?0! v'' 3'33 4' • A ''W cgw 


_T_h_e_O__b_se_r_v_e_r_-_N_e_w__s_S~p-ec_i_a_I____________________________________________M___onday,Oct~~r~~-;~ 
Scientific revolution 
Cronkite-warns of 'upheaval' 
By MARGARET FOSMOE major problem in the areas of Slaughter also noted a failure to Saint .\fary's Executit•e Editor science and technology is that recognize the contributions of educators are not highly valued and minorities and women in scientific 
Walter Cronkite warns that salaries reflect this. There has been a areas.
·srcnk.'.r:\S;·· Americans are living through a marked decrease in the number and Fuqua said that "industry is scientitic revolution "just as blindly quality of science teachers in the inheriting a technologically il­as our grand.tathers lived through past two decades because ofthis, the literate workforce" and stressed the the Industrial Revolution" because panel agreed. role ofthe media a.-; the major educa­America ha.<; failed to teach science Rice reflected "Commercial tional service "responsible for what to the m;L<;SeS. success is rewarded more than intel­we don't know as well as what we do 
Cronkite, CBS special correspon­lectual success." He said the l'nited know." dent. moderated a panel discussion States must learn to pay scientific Cronkite said he did not feel it wa.<; at Notre Dame Saturday concerning educators more, or "we'll never dig the responsibility of a news broad­
the role ofuniversities, industry, and ourselves out." cast to educate the public. He said government in increasing national Hanley, calling himself an op­"special programming should do awareness of science and technol­timist. urged that universities, in­that...They (the networks) have 
ogy. The symposium was part of the dustry, and business must "develop done precious little of that." weekend dedication ceremonies of a greater sense of community." If 
Cronkite also said that a crisis 
1.
the new Stepan Chemistry Hall. not, Hanley warned, the growth of 
such as Three Mile Island was a This scientitic revolution will be an "anti-science mentality" 
"blow to the public confidence" be­followed by great "social, economic, threatens to make technology in the 
cause the news media could not get and political upheaval" because 19HOs "what communism was in the a consensus from the experts. Public 
science is not having the impact that '50s." reaction to such incidents is "My it should have, according to "There won't be another Spudnik gosh, they don't know what they're Cronkite. to make us aware" ofour technologi­doing," said Cronkite. 
Cronkite and the four symposium cal ignorance, said Slaughter, and Fuqua said that the problem must panelists were among those who the issue must be dealt with in a be dealt with by a concerted effort received honorary degrees as part of direct manner. "In my opinion, we to stimulate interest in science. He dedication ceremonies for the new didn't put the money (spent after suggested making scientific facilities structure. Spudnik) in a program that would and university programs more ac­
The other panelists included la.<;t," he said, and this started the cessible to the public on a regular Congressman Don Fuqua, chairman decline that is continuing today. basis. of the House Committee on Science and Technology; John W. Hanley, chairman of the board of the Mon­
Stepan hopes new hall 
santo Co.; Stuart A. Rice, dean of the division of physical sciences at the University of Chicago; and John B. Slaughter, director of the National 
can meet challenges 
Science Foundation. 

By MARGARET FOSMOE Stepan mentioned importantThe panel members agreed that a 
Saint Mary•'s Executive Editor scientific breakthroughs that have been made in the past at Notre Alfred C. Stepan, Jr., chairman of Dame, including the first windtun­
Between academia ,industry 
the board of Stepan Chemical Co. nel, the first wireless message, and and chief benefactor of the new the use of germfree animals in Stepan Chemistry Hall sees the research. 
building as a "challenge" t<Jr the Stepan also noted the most Notre Dame community to famous Notre Dame scientific By MARGARET FOSMOE Science foundation. "Science and technology must be achievement the invention of 



Scientist sees decay in link 
"generate a new lofty leadership in ­Saint Mary•'s Executive Editor Bromley said in the years follow-present in such quality that they at-science." synthetic rubber by Father Julius ing World War II, "the bridges be-tract young people into careers and Nieuwland in 19.:H.
Stepan presented the address at Americans must work together to tween academia and the private insure success," he said. "Today we take them (Notre
the dedication ceremony for the rebuild bridges between the sector were allowed to decay and Bromley emphasized that society Dame scientists) forgranted, but
new science hall yesterday. The academic and private sector in order disappear. The old cooperation was must work together to rebuild the they helped win a war," said Stepan. 
ceremony followed a morning .\tass to restore scientific education in this replaced by suspicion and distrust." bridges because "no part ot' our "All we ask tor now is more and
of Thanksgiving celebrated in the country, according to D. Allan In the post-war era, according to society... has any hope alone." more of the same," he said.
hall by lln,versity President Father Bromley, chairman of the board of Bromley, the United States tended to The new Stepan Chemistry Hall In his response, Hesburgh called
Theodore Hesburgh. Hesburgh also blessed the building during the

the American Association for the Ad-ignore the rest of the world. "We represents the fostering of a broad the building a "living symbol of our vancement ofScience. simply assumed that what wa.<; good partnership, according to Bromley. commitment to truth and science"
dedication ceremony. Bromley, introduced by Father for us was good for the rest of the Such a partnership "will enablt: us to and assured Stepan, "we rise to (the)
"We are here to proclaim a chal­Theodore Hesburgh, University world," he said. address the problems in a fashion challenge and I hope each time we
lcnge...We seek lofty goals...We ex­President, delivered the address at Bromley noted a serious decline worthy of those who have gone walk by this building we remember
pect you to be a servant to the academic convocation for the in the number and quality of young het(Jre us," he said. we promised to do better."
mankind," said Stepan. dedication of the Stepan Chemistry adults entering science-related Hall. fields. "W'e need a continuous flow He was among six recepients of oft bright young people into science honorary degrees from Notre Dame and technology" and an increase in in connection with the dedication public awareness according to 
iili····

celebration. Bromley. In terms of pre-college 
Receiving honorary Doctor of levels, we "fell far behind our com­Law degrees at the ceremony were petition," he said. Walter Cronkite, special CBS cor­Discussing what he called the respondent; Rep. Don Fuqua, chair­"pre-college disa.~ter" in thb man of the House Committee on country, Bromley cited statistics in­Science and Technology: and John dicating that of the -;-; percent of 
W. Hanley, chairman of the board of city students that graduate from .\1onsanto Co. In addition to Brom-high school, 20 percent of those are ley, receiving honorary Doctor of functionally illiterate. 
Science degrees were Stuart A. Rice, In order to correct this disaster, 
dean of physical science at the Uni­young Americans must be given a 
versity of Chicago; and John B. broad background in science and 
Slaughter. director of the National technologv. said Bromlcv. 
Friends and relatives of Alfred Stepan, members of the Notre Dame Board ofTrustees, and other benefactorsgatherfor Sunday's dedication ofthe new, 19-3 million Stepan Chemistry Hall. (Photo by Diana Butler) 
$9.3 million structure enhanceslaboratory space 
The newh -dedicated Stepan Chemistry I-Iall is a tive-story, I06,000 square-foot structure located just west of .\kmorial Library and built along the east wall ofthe Nieuwland Science Hall. Tht.· S9.5 million facility house~ -tS,OOO square feet of modern laboratory anti instrumentation space. in addition to ofi1ces tor faculty and clerical stafi·: seminar rooms: machine, dectronics and glass shops; animal rooms and computer terminals. Laboratory and instrumentation 
space have been st  aside on each of the th-e tloors. The facilit\  
accommodates thl  · eds of 20 faculty members. 12 postdoctoral  
students and 60 g·  luate students. The structure was created by  

Ellerbe and Co. of i ·, ·omington, .\1innesota. Prior to construction <lf. the Stepan Chemistry Hall, most research and graduate instruction laboratorv space was in the Old Chemistry Building, built in 191 H and now under renovation for art courses. 
r 
I ' 
~

• • /'
:~ 
11 

' J t
' 

Alfred Stepan (fourth from left), chaim~an of with other honored guests as Father Edward Mal­the board of ofStepan Chemical Co. and Notre loy delivers the invocation at yesterday's dedica­Dame President Father Theodore Hesburgh stand tion ceremony. (Photo byDiana Butler) 
~~..•...•.•.....:..................•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
~ 
I ~Stt0 W C fi~SiiiiiE____.____.iiiiiiMondiiiiiiay,
Ociiiiiitoberiiiiii4,198iiiii2piiiiiage8 
THE TAffiiNG OF THE SHREW 

Theresa Guarino theatre 
~ink ofShakespeare, and the set­
.l ting and costumes ofElizabethan England usually come to mind. But a Shakespearean comedy set in the contemporary American southwest? That's exactly where the Notre 
Dame/Saint Mary's theatre produc­tion ofShakespeare's Taming ofthe Shrew will take place. Faculty direc­torJulie Jensen has kept the Shakespearean names and language, hut has transferred the characters to a modern day setting in order for the audience to "identify with each character." 

I· 
"Shakespeare has been done over and over the standard Elizabethan museum style, hut we couldn't do it that way ifwe wanted to, without an Elizabethan stage, the appropriate costumes, and the time to make them," Jensen explained. "This in­
terpretation will show how AmericaI and the myth ofAmerica have defined things like sex roles for us. 
I 
There is violence, tough guys and 
girls, a clear sense ofgood and evil 

i here." 
I 
I 
Shakepeare's story ofthe stormy marriage between Petruchio and his headstrong wife Kate, and Petruc­hio's attempt to "tame" his wife will 
I 
stay the same. But some characters 
I 
have heen redefined for this produc­tion (many have also been deleted). In Kate's last monologue, she 
returns to her husband and tells the company the reasons why women are and should he dependent on their husbands. In Shakespeare's ver­sion, Kate appears truly sincere in her views. Here, however, Kate overdoes her "dependent wife" speech, and hoth she and Petruchio realize this. Petruchio grows un­comfortable and tries to stop her. But in the end, Kate shows him that the hattie of the sexes isn't over yet. 
The characters ofthe comedy will become modernized to make them more identifiable for the audience. Petruchio and his friends are brag­garts, interested in proving who they can win over. The play makes fun of this behavior, as docs Kate, who ~ees through their facade and responds in a way a contemporary woman might. 
In Shakespeare's play, a man named Christopher Sly introduces the characters at the beginning, and then disappears. Jensen took a liking 

W
en one mentions the word "cornucopia," a myriad of images fill the mimi: memories of grade-school pageants in which we made our dramatic debuts portray­ing the hardy and courageous Pilgrims; thanksgiving dinners with 
CatoiCamp 
features 

all the trimmings served lovingly by Grandma, and the "horn ofplenty" which we attempted to preserve in crayon for posterity. In the thriving metropolis ofSouth Bend, however, the term has acquired a new and in­
novative meaning, thanks to the ef­
forts ofMike Varga to provide local 
residents with an artistic forum 
known as "Writers and Other 
Tn-haOOue." 


WRITERS... ndds new dimension 
Now in its second season, forum are frequently invited back to idea. Twelve people attended his 
"Writers and Other Troubadours" become featured performers." meeting, and together they provides poets, playwrights, A native of Philadelphia, Varga launched Varga's dream. In order to musicians, and other artists with the brought the idea of"Writers" with tlnance their venture, each person 
opportunity to perform for an him when he moved to South Bend contributed tlve dollars to a general 
audience. The forum, which is held two years ago. He explains: operating fund, so that the group every Monday evening at 7:30pm. at "For some reason, Philadelphia could begin to publicize this unique the Cornucopia restaurant (a natural was becoming the poetry capital of new opportunity to the community. foods restaurant located on South the U.S. In response to this need, lo­To use an old cliche, that initial sixty Michigan in downtown South cal bar owners decided to turn their dollar investment has "gone a long Bend), consists of two parts. For the places over to poets, and soon way" (disciples of Reaganomics first half hour, a previously forums were being held each night should take note), because halfof 
scheduled performer is featured. in a different location." each weeks' admission price is given Then, at eight o'clock, six members When he arrived in South Bend, to the featured performer, while the ofthe audience who have signed up however, he discovered that there remaining portion ofthe money is prior to the per-formance, are given was no outlet in the local com­used for the maintenance ofequip­their five minutes ofglory in the munity for artists to exhibit their ment (microphones, amplifiers, spotlight. Ac-cording to Varga, creative efforts. To rectify the situa­lights, etc. ) As Varga stated, ''I'll "there may be no guarantee ofthe tion, Varga began compiling a list of never be paid forty-five dollars for a 
quality ofthe material that they people whom he met that were in­half-hour's work again!" 
(members ofthe audience) per­terested in the arts. After acquiring The forum wa~ given its unique 
form, but the artist is given an in­twenty-five names, Varga then title in order to "encouragedi\'ersity centive to produce, because people decided to gather these people to­ofart" Also, it reflects the unique who "wow" the audience in open gether to gauge their reaction to his nature as well as the variety of 
to him, and added him toShrew as part narrator/part actor. He'll be joined by his wife, Lady Sly, to talk about the stage action with the audience, and comment on the characters. 
jensen is the only faculty member involved with Taming oftheShrew. The rest ofthe work is being entirely done by student directors, desig­ners, and workers. Everything is going on schedule according to stage manager Mary Riley. "Everyone's putting everything they've got into this show," she said. "We really think it will go over well." 
Elizabeth Bottum is in charge of sets for the show and will oversee such jobs as getting a pickup truck on stage and building the ranch of Kate's father. "We really appreciate Julie's (Jensen) trust in us," she com­mented. "It makes the job a lot easier." 
As for Jensen's interpretation of 
the script, Bottum believes the 
audience will appreciate it. 
"Shakespeare has been done so of­
ten, sometimes we get trapppd," she 
commented. "This is new and fresh 
and something an audience 
wouldn't expect." 
Notre Dame junior Kevin Finney, who plays the pompous Petruchio, believes "you'lllike this even more if you appreciated the old way. I wouldn't enjoy doing it the way Shakespeare did; in fact l hadn't read the book until the audition." 
Heidi Lucke, a Saint Mary's senior, will don jeans and cowboy hoots to portray Kate. "The play will give justice to a lot ofShakespeare's humor, and the American point of view. It'll be extremely identitlable for the audience." 
Those involved with the show are 
confident ofits success. "Who 
wouldn't come to see it done in a dif 
ferent way?" Bottum exclaimd. "It's 
funny anyway, and now there will be 
a different outlook. People laugh 
when they hear about how we're 
doing it, but they're curious too." 
"People can think about how these characters may be something like themselves, in a way they couldn't in the old interpretations," explained Jensen. 
The Taming ofthe Sbreu• will he 
presented October H, 9. 1-i, I 'i and 
16 in ()'Laughlin Auditorium at H 
p.m. 

people who attend the program. Several Notre Dame professors (including English professor Sonia Gernes, who read excerpts from her recently published novel) have ap­peared as featured performers. Varga also observed that "a fair amount ofpeople from the local community, including street people, come regularly." 
In Varga's opinion, the only problem the ti.Jrum faces is "a general lack of knowledge in the community." He would also like to involve a larger number ofstudents in the forum in order to "provide it with a broader scope." 
As the name implies, ''Writers and Other Troubadours" is a chance to escape the doldrums ofthe Dome and to experience a kw ofthe finer things in life, socheck it out ... who knows? You may find your place in the spotlight!!! 
--------------------------------------~----~~.-~.........-.... ..................~~--~--..~----~--------------~ 
The Observer Features Section 
Monday, October 4, 1982 -page 9 
l J 
l
The last bastion 
...and the end 
'""J"1he side trip into Switzerland had put me somewhat behind 
~ schedule and I covered 220 miles in the next three days. I returned to Germany's Black Forest which offered little relief from the hills since there are several4000 foot peaks in the region ofGer­many. I also rode with a Canadian couple for I 1/2 days who had cycled up from Isreal destined for London -a 6 month tour. The terrain finally" levelled as I approached the Rhine River forming the border between Germany and France. I spent my last night in Ger­many in the town ofKiel, across the Rhine from Strasbourg, France. I was turned away from a full campground but luckily met a German couple at a cafe who invited me into their home for the night. It was a nice way to spend my last night in Germany. 
My impressions of the Germanic peoples is that the Germans are proud but fun-loving and out-going while the Austrians are more reserved and strait-laced, an attitude undoubtably brought about by their tumultuous 20th century history .. 
Kevin Shortelle 
features 

.. I crossed over into Strasbourg on july 14th, Bastille Day, amidst carnivals and street markets. At this point of the trip, however, I was tired ofcities and only wanted to return to the country. Strasbourg is the capital ofthe French province ofAlsace, a region renowned for its turbulent history and fine white wines. I therefore chose to follow the "Rue du vin" (Wine Road) which weaved its way through thousands ofacres of vineyards and tiny wine producing vill"J.ges. I made frequent stops at family owned wineries to sample their products as well as touring their wine making facilities. I met yet another Canadian cyclist, Graham Longford, who had studied in Germany for a year and was cycling the continent for the summer. He had command ofboth the French and German languange and proved to be the ideal cycling companion. We spent one more day in Alsace sampling the wines and then headed west across the Vosges mountains toward Dijon, the capital of Burgundy, the world famous red wine region. 
To recount the events of the subsequent seven days would fill an encyclopedia. I can only say that it was the most incredible and memorable week ofthe trip. We followed another wine route in Bur­gundy called, Route Des Grands Crus, which ribboned its way deep into the vineyards. It was a secondary road used only for farm vehicles and in our case, bicycles. It also led us to unparalleled hospitality. We were flooded with invitations-three lunches, two dinners, two nights in people's homes, and some of the finest red wines in the world. In every small village we were met with a dif­ferent surprise and a different bottle of wine. As you can guess, we did no more than about IS mile~ a day. We also met two Americans who were each cycling alone. One had been touring Europe for I 0 months and the other had been touring in Africa and Europe for the last IS months. In comparison, my I 0 week excursion was just a side trip to these two. We were all offered jobs pickinggrapes this Oc­tober and my three companions all accepted, while I, needless to say, graciously refused. The rain~ began to fall in southern Burgundy and I had but one week left in Europe so Ibid my friends farewell and took my tlnal train from southern France northward to Belgium's capital city, Brussels. The ensuing four day trip by bike was through Bdgian flower tklds and back into the Netherlands and was high­lighted hy two more nights in people's homes. It was almost as if I was being tempted to stay in Europe by the hospitality. I decided to spend my tlnal days in Europe back on the North Sea where I had 
visited ten weeks earlier. A few days on the sunny beach were a great 
way to relax and close out the tour. On August I, I cycled the tlnal 20 
miles from the coast to Amsterdam's Schirphol airport, dismantled 
and boxed my hike, and said good-bye to the continent and people 
who had treated me so well over the last 2 II 2 months. 
The ten weeks in Europe were suppose to satiate my appetite t{Jr 
travel abroad hut it did nothing but enhance it. I hope to return to 
Spain, Italy and Greece or to ~orthern Scandanavia and, ofcourse, I 
would return with my bike. I covered 2300 miles on the bike as well 
as several hundred by train and did not have a single adverse ex­
perience. I considered myself very fortunate. I know the bike added 
a unique perspective to the trip and I'm sure it opened many doors 
ti:Jr me. It was always a way to break the ice when initiating a con­
versation with the European people. I hope that someday ifyou have 
the opportunity, time, tlnances and ambitions you may choose the 
bike as a means of transportation through Europe. You won't regret 
it. 

Editor's Note: Kevin willpresent a slideshowat 8 p.m. in LaFortune Little Theatre on his European trip. All are invited to attend. 
, 


I
t's the last bastion of that all-male society that charac­terized Notre Dame in the early years, along with jackets and ties at dinner and the streetcar that rattled past on the way to town. 
Strangely enough, it's not in one of the ivy-lined buildings of Notre Dame's past. It's in a shoebox ofa building, held together by beige bricks and concrete poles. 
It's in the North Dining Hall, my oasis from co­education, and I treasure it. 
Ed KonrGdy 
features 

It's the infamous A-line. 
Now I like women as much as any normal American guy, if not more. In fact, it's because I like them so much that I always eat in A-line. 
When I am inC or D, constant reminders ofour more common stereotypes are all around me -a woman eating ice cream and drinking Tab, a guy making fun of her and complaining that he has no social life -and it disgusts me. 
The food by NDFS (Notre Dame Food Services) is disgusting enough without help; with the comments, even Ican't digest the stuff. So I have retreated to A-line. 
My intimate dining room for upwards of :\00 has many other advantages, too. Rarely do I have to wait in a line when I go to dinner. The food is usually still hot at 4:30, and on a few occasions, I personally have even seen it steam. (Although, since it was jello, I guess it really doesn't count.) 
But the best part is that Ican relate with other people without the distractions that usually raise quick repar­tee that is about as sophomoric as Dean Roemer's Party Guidelines, and just about as funny. 
We converse about anything that happens to be bothering us -school, women, the football team, what was in The Observer, our roommates, Jaw school (for Dave), welfare and unemployment (for yours truly) ­anything and everything that comes into our minds. For thirty minutes or so, we can escape from the restrictive atmosphere of Notre Dame life and pretend we are real people: 
Now, we should be able to do this on our own, you 
say. I agree. But when you sit next to a guy who rattles 
on for fifteen minutes on how this girl will go up to the 
salad bar and put its entire contents on her plate, generally ridiculing her for having an appetite, and then really abusing any woman who even looks at the ice cream, well, it's very hard to try to carry on an intel­legent conversation with someone. Especially when it's a woman. 
Sitting with girls surrounding me certainly improves my disposition, but unfortunately, does nothing to solve the problem. Women do not usually make cruel jokes about guys (at least when I'm around) but I still have trouble getting used to hearing women complain about how badly they were treated at a hall this weekend, and then seeing them there the next. Does this make sense to anyone' If so, please write and tell me. 
At my oasis of maturity, when the occasional woman drops in with a regular, or the two lovely ladies who fre­quent A-line, they are treated as equals without the sexual/social distinctions that permeate the rest of campus. 
No crude jokes about ice cream, tab, or the salad bar. No loud discussions about the parties last weekend and the prospects this weekend. I don't even notice the usual lustful glances toward the opposite sex (by both sexes, ladies) and I love it. 
Everyone eats in a relatively quiet atmosphere, full of conversation without screaming, almost enjoying the fact that we're there. 
Except that NDFS serves the same food over in A-line as they serve in the others. 
People who are uninitiated in the art offine dining (rooms, that is) think I am crazy for always going to A. Why not change up and go to F, they say. Isn't it the same thing? 
Oh nooooo, Mr. Hands. 
F-line is what A-line is supposed to be -a smaller 
version of the other four lines, with their good and bad 
points. 

A-line's charm and mystique (ifanything can be 
allowed to combine charm, mystique and gastric 
nausea) allows me to relax and escape from Notre 
Dame's incredible sexual/social attitudes toward 
women, men, and people themselves. 
I feel rather ashamed that I must run to a special 
dining room line to achieve this state of mind when it 
should be the rule, not the exception around campus. 
I feel even worse when I realize that there's nothing I 
can do about it. 

I feel the worst when I realize that there's nothing the 
administration will do about it. 
Go abroad,young ·man 
can hear johnnv Olsen now ... things a hit. :\laybe I just won't go. eighty dollars hut got mad when II"Your showcase begins with Austria is out of the question. The found out I could have gotten it ti:Jr France ... Great Britain ... only bits ofGerman that I know are eight. Austria ... Italy ... the vacation ofa the name ofa character in Catch-22 
Tina: I fell in love with a cleric. 
lifetime' See yourselfskiing atln­plus the words for "thank you." 
Rick: I partied and partied.
nsbruck, or drifting down a street in Then there is Taiwan, but I don't Venice, or setting your watch hy the know a thing about Taiwan, much Now I'm at a ~tandstill. Should I Big Ben -all while attending less where it is. If I'm going to go stay or should I go' I have to con­
school! Yes, that's right -you can overseas, I want to know where I'm sider the advantages: learning about work on vour homework awav from different cultures, seeing things I've
going. It isn't any better in Rome, Italy. 


only heard about, and especially One student I know came back ac­
being closer to Diana, Princess of tually praising dining hall food. And Wales. others say that they're surprised that 
Then the disadvantages: the food,
the people there aren't into

features the expenses -and being away
worshiping the sun, as rarely as it ap­

from all of mv friends and familvit all, in exciting Europe' It's all part pears. Besides, I don't know the 
which forces. me to consider thl~: 
of the Notre Dame foreign studies slightest fragment of the Italian lan­the tough part about going overseas program, and it can be yours, if the guage. I shudder at the thought of -or anywhere away from "home,"price is right1" getting lost somewhere in an Italian for that matter -is leavingBut why would I want to go to city. Ifl had some food with me, I'd 
everyone you love behind. You part
Europe, the bidder asks? And for a he carefree and happy, roaming the 
with everyone and everythingyear? Do they broadcast Notre Dame streets and having a good time. 
you've grown up with, having onlyfootball over there' Do they have Everything would be fine until I had the telephone and your ZiggyPac-Man or Robotron? Wendy's? to go the bathroom. Then I'd he in stationery to keep in touch. That Spacious skies or amber waves of trouble. How do you signal that you aspect offoreign studies is the onlv grain? No, thanks, I'll pass this have to go? You couldn't exactly act 
setback in my quest to go oversea~. 
showcase up and bid on the it out like you could ifyou were bedroom set. hungry or sleepy. The many friends I have made 
I think I'm fine right here where I here at the University make the am. Here with the Notre Dame com­Finally, there's the London foreign studies program an interest­munity and the good ol' USA. Here program for juniors. Hey, I'll be a ing prospect. No matter how much I with Victoria Principal, Oreo junior next year. But I'm told that may hate "omelettes du fro mage", cookies, Hill Street Blues, and the students who are in the London and no matter the rain may bum me 
Milwaukee Brewers. Here with In­program have to buy their own food, out-heck, even if Diana doesn't diana, Annie, Dodgt:rs fans, Scott which is quite expensive over there. return my calls, I would never be Baio and Willie Aames, Bo Schem­I was also told that one student lost discouraged. I'd know that my bechler-wait a minute. Maybe get­thirty pounds while staying in Lon­friends and family back here would ting away for a while wouldn't be don. Could I give up my diet ofOak­always think of me because I'd be such a bad idea after all. burgers just to go to Europe? thinking ofthem, and that feeling of 
But as I suddenly jump at the I finally decided to ask people assurance is something you can't thought oftraveling abroad, I realize what exciting things they did in the win on any game show. I hope the 
that a major consideration has foreign studies program. Afew friends we have overseas this year ~lipped my mind: I'll have to know answers: know just that: they will always be in another language. That hampers 
Mike: I bought a tapestry for our thoughts. 
Monday, October 4, 1982 -page 10
Editorials 
For only two bucks, it's a bargain 
The annual United Way fund raising drive is in high gear and roaring through dormitory hallways across the Notre Dame campus. Campus fund-raising co-chairmen john Bardsley and Tom Bogen have enthusia~tical­ly announced that support is pouring in from all sectors of the community. 
1 
Paul R. McGinn j)/
JohnM.Higgins A ~~~ 
Notre Dame.IN 46556 T 
Paylolhe ~· · .,._!%'<UL--$~oo
1
Order or ~~ . ~ ~ ~ ;Fo-.....--__ Dollars U"'ver..ryofNorreDame ~-f\"tl tw,.<Q.. CredJtUnion ~J:.~,.~
~ ~ ·-,­
~ 
11 
Memo ~ ~ J'f= 1\t.. ~ 

media campaign is key to arousing individual and collective guilt. We see the drive as a healthy release for students and administators alike. Many missed the Shatila petition or didn't really follow through on their promises to support Solidarity. Let's face it, the Nestle's vote just wasn't enough. Here's our chance to really redeem ourselves and move on to new 
guilt. At only $2.00, it would be a bargain at twice the price." Bardsley and Bogen glowed at the mention f" J h
of the interhall competition. "We ee t is is a capital idea," they said. "The interhall rivalry-perfectly captures that Notre Dame com-
f · &

petitive spirit at the height o interest m ,oot­ball. We hope this principle becomes 
L---------·-==---------"""""-..1 appreciated over time." 
"We would like to enthusiastically an­nounce that support has poured in from all sectors of the community," Bardsley and Bogen declared in unison. "The generosity we 
have encountered has been overwhelming." 
Indeed, overwhelming the campus is the 
theme of this year's drive. Bardsley and Bogen 
have coordinated a three-pronged attack. 
First, the duo designed a lavish media 
(campaign) of hundreds of posters, leaflets, 
and Observer ads to create awareness of the impending drive. The second prong consists of a fund-raising contest between halls. The dorm with the highest percentage of its resi­dents contributing will win a group trip to Ft. Lauderdale. The crowning thrust is a massive door-to-door collection drive within the dorms. 
"Each element of the attack is equally im­portant," Bardsley and Bogen said. "The When asked why Saint Mary's College does 

not participate in the dorm-to-dorm competi­
tion, Bardsley and Bogen replied "Well, SMC 
never had much ofa football team." 
The climax of the drive, however, is the direct solicitation effort. Section leaders will go door-to-door, gently encouraging students to donate. The pair spent months studying the approaches of similar fund-raising efforts by the Sicilian Catholic ·Church and sought guidance from the collected works of those masters of direct solicitation: Marcello, Giacana and Hoffa. 
"People may feel pressured because someone is knocking on their door, but we feel that in a week's time this is probably the best way we can think of to hit everybody," Bardsley said. "We don't mean for this to be a pressure tactic; we just mean it for the sake of convenience." 
"Actually, the drive represents a new high 
Isn't life at ND a blast? 
Friday afternoon, I was relaxing in my jacuzzi in Holy Cross (and you wonder why anybody would want to live over there!) and reading the Observer when I came across an interesting editorial. Patrick Mulligan ques-
Joe Musumeci 
looking In 
tioned, in a well-laid-out article, the ap­propriateness of one Professor A. Murty Kanury's research into the effects of wind blasts resulting from a nuclear explosion. Kanury has received a large grant from the Department of Defense to investigate whc:ther building a small-scale city would he useful in determining evasive measures in an urban blast situation (at least, that is how !un­derstand it ). 
Mr. Mulligan included a quote from the Na­tional Catholic Enquirer in which Kanury comments on the use of his research: "Will thev (the Defense Department) use the in­for~lation my research provides? 'Yes,' Kanury said, 'buthow they will use lt-Idon't know."' Mulligan seems to feel that the poten­tial for offensive strategy (if it tells us how to avoid a nuclear blast, it will teach us how to make one more. destructive) invalidates Kanury's research, on the grounds that research for offensive methods of war are not consistent with the aims of this University. Quite frankly, I agree with him. With the comforting thought that I agree with someone tucked neatly away in the folds of my cerebrum, I relaxed in the turbulent but soothing waters. 
An hour later, I awoke with a start, shrivelled like a month-old yam. I grabbed for the paper again and reread Mulligan's column, stopping at a passage he included from the 

Department of)nformation Services: "A Uni­
versity ofNotre Dame professor is conducting 
feasibility studies to find out ifthe test blast of 
a scale model city in a Western desert .. 
I read the paragraph again. 
And again. 

Forty-nine thousand dollars. It seems to me 
like a lot of money for an academic research 
grant. But from the military? Not much at all. It 
seems that the Defense Department is taking 
the budget route (and this is not surprising, 
since the military is not keen on throwing 
bucks out on something they can't drop on 
someone they don't like). Will they really 
spend the millions it will take to construct a 
mock-up city? In a Western desert? 
I read the passage yet again; then looked out my window. From Holy Cross, one has a pretty fair view ofthe llniversity, all the build­ings spread graciously around the lakes. It looks almost like a ... yes, like a small-scale city. l!h-oh. 
I thought of the myriad styles of ar­chitecture across campus -old, new; stone, brick, block, wood; tall buildings, short build­ings, wide buildings, narrow buildings. There are bodies of water, an industrial complex, cars, towers, even wildlife. There is a true cross-section of humanity wandering around our campus. We even have a cave. 
Is the Defense Department really planning 
to build a "small-scale" city? Why a "Western 
desert" -why not a Midwestern wasteland? I 
hope that Prof Kanury decides such an ex­
periment will be of no use whatsoever. There 
is one sunrise I don't look forward to seeing 
over St. joe's Lake. 

But it bothers me that this particular con­tract was sent here. After all. we consider our­selves a "model community." And being a model can be dangerous. 
in providing convenience to the students," Bogen continued. "I mean, you can't even get pizza delivered to your door. We do this to emphasize that United Way is a service­oriented organization." 
Off-campus students, however, are irate 
that the direct solicitation will be conducted only within dormitories. "There was a real outcry when we found out the drive was limited to the dorms," Off-Campus Comis­sioner Bill Bromberg said. "It's just another example of the University ignoring the con­venience needs of off-campus students. This kind of thing puts us under tremendous pressure to move back to campus." Bromberg will present a petition signed by 1300 stu­dents living off-campus demanding extension of the solicitation drive at tonight's Student 
Senate meeting. 
Bardsley anti Bogen dismissed Bromberg's complaint. "He can get pizza delivered right to his door," they said. "Now that's con­venience." 
The current drive has earned the full sup­port of the administration. "This work will help support many charitable organizations in the local community and will be greatly ap­preciated by many people," llniversity Presi­dent Fr. Theodore Hesburgh commented. "I think it is important to experience the respon­sibility to give during one's time at college. The United Way Fund Drive is one very good way to gain this experience. This way it will be no surprise when we put the arm on you for our endowment and your football tickets in years to come." 

P.O. Box Q  
Phalangist history DearEditor: the killing. By accusing the Phalangists, they After reading the article "Massacre weaken Lebanon and justify their presence demands explanation," I have some ques­there. One proof that the Phalangists did not tions for Mr. Thomas 1\lelsheimer, and I commit the massacre is the: election of a think that a little explanation would not hurt Phalangist by consensus of :\toslems and the general nor the historical knowledge of Christians to the ofilce of president just Mr. Melsheimer. three days after the massacre. Is defending one's life, family and country When somebody wants to write an article, a barbaric action? Is liberating one's country he ha~ to be sure ofeverything he presents. I from terrorists occupying it a barbaric ac­would not write an article on Zimbabwe be­tion? Were those who liberated the United cause I am not well informed; and I ask :\tr. States to gain independence barbaric Melsheimer to avoid writing about Lebanon people? How well-informed is Mr. Mel­until he studies our history, our true history. sheimer on Lebanese history in general and Phalangist history in particular? Does he i\'aim T. Boueri base his "historical knowledge" on what Lebanese Student newspapers write, whether they are right or wrong? On what basis does he accuse the Phalangists ofbeing "historically barbaric?" Editor's Note: Letters should he brief and How come Mr. Melsheimer refutes what deal with specific issues. They must bt· typed the Israelis say about not knowing what was and bear the address, telephone number and happening and still believe blindly their ac­signature of the author. Initials and pseudo­cusations that the Phalangists committed nyms are not acceptable. Reproductions. the ma~sacre~ Every day, new details show carbon copies. or letters addressed to per­more and more that it is highly probable that sons other than the editor are not accept­the Israeli government knew and expected able. All letters are ~ubject to editing.  


Editorial Board 
The Observer 
I I·<· (J/,,-n ,.,. 1>; .HI 1ndcpcndcn: nt·W'l'·ll'<"r f•uhlr,h,·,1 h rht· ,ru,knr, nl tilt· 
111\l"f'll}" of Notre D.unc: du I .h .111d S.11111 M.1r1·, ( ulk.~c It ,{,>e' :·ut lll\l"".trd) :died til{" rolr.tt"\ of the .hilllllll\lr.l!IUII pj l"llhl"f llhi!!UIIIlll The lll'V.\ ,, rtf'llrl c,{ .1' ,t.turJtell" .111d ,1, objt\!1\t·h .l, f'lh'lbk I d•toruJ, rc1•rncnt the Of'1:11Uil oJ .1 rn.qor•ty of the l:d1torul 1\o.tr,l ( tldlllll"lll.lrlt"'· Uf'iruon' .u:.l IL"ttcr' .:n· tht' \ll"W' of then author,_ ( olumn ~j•J,c I'_J\Jd,:blt-It> .dl rtlernhcr, ut the •urnmurilty..:nJ the fret' expre,s:un of I"Jf}'lll}:; uprn:ulh on c.impu>. tl1rough letcer:.. r• en<.oungc-J. 
P.O.Hox Q, Notn.. Danw. IN -t<,SS(l (.! 19) .!59-'HIU 
I:"(Ii/t u:-ill·Cbiej.. . . .\iidlal"l.\lonl.. .I/mw.~ittg l:"ditor. .R~au \:c:r lkrkmon l:":wcutil'e .\ell"S l:"tlitor. ......Kdli Flint \".\IC /:"xecutit•e f:"tlitor... . . .\largarl·t l'o~nlOl" \j}(Jrts f:"tlitor.. .....................Chri~ 'l"l"dln l:"tlitorials l:"tlitor ......................... Paul .\ld.inn h'ti/llres Editor . .... Tari Brown Photo l:"dtlt1r .. ................ Rachl"l Blount 
Department Managers 
/lusiness .llatwger ..  ·Inn\  \~til"  
Controller ..  l·.r:t "tillrl/  
.·ldt•ertising .llanager.  .. (.hr:' ( h\ t"ll  
Production .\Iwwger  .\laura \lurpl11  
Circulotion .lltllltlger  R~11  lnglrn  
.\ystems .llanager  llrutt" ( >.tl..ln  

Founded November 3, 1966 
----..-.------~--~­
~jbl>~tS:lJ::~:=i:~~=S===============================M=o=n=d=ay=,=o~ct=o=be=r=4=,1=9=82===P=a=ge=l=l
lh !be ( JIJsen•er aJH.Ilbe Assucialerl Press 

Jim Fallfling, under tire because Montreal failed to repeatThe ND Quadrangular' Notre Dame's only action its National League East title, resigned as the Expos' manager yester­
in match play in the fall men's tennis season. was held this past 
day, deciding to return to the team's front office as vice president.weekend. The Irish placed tirst by defeating the other three teams in 
The decision was announced by Fanning and President john McHale the round-robin tournament. Notre Dame beat Illinois State, 5-4; 
after the Expos closed out the season with a 6-1 victory ry over the Oral Roberts. 7-2; and Southern Illinois, 6-3. The Irish open their 
Pittsburgh Pirates. The Expos tlnished third in the Eastern Division. 
spring season on February 25 when they travel to Marquette. -The "I am returning to the front office with no regrets," said Fanning, 55. 
Ohsen,er 
He replaced the ousted Dick Williams as manager in September 1981, and guided the Expos to a National League East mini-series playoffvictory over the Philadelphia Phillies before the Expos lost to the Los Angeles Dodgers in a tlve·game league championship series. 
Fellowship ofChristian Athleteswill spon­
sor an evening with former Olympic qualitier and current Saint Mary's swimming coach Mark Mamula. The meeting will be held Interhall cross country meets will be held on Wednesday night at 8 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. All are invited. three successive Thursdays, beginning October 7. The two-and-a­FCA promotes Christian fellowship among athletes and coaches in half mile races will be run on the golf course. Team or insurance hope that this will be shared with the larger community. -The forms must be turned in to the NVA office before October 7. The Obsen•er races will start and finish at the second tee, where racers are asked to 
gather by 4:15p.m. the day ofeach race. -The Observer 
The Irish baseball teamwon two games and lost one at the Bradley University Fall Baseball Tournament held over the weekend~ On Saturday afternoon, Notre Dame lost to Illinois State, Men's Volleyball Club is holding tryouts for 4-2. Later that evening, Larry Gallo's Irish bounced back to take a 
prospective members tonight at ':30 in the ACC Fieldhouse. The 12-6 decision from host Bradley, and then continued their winning 
club is looking for players with high school or USVBA experience. In ways yesterday afternoon by edging Valparaiso, 3-2. For the fall 
addition. there is a mandatory meeting for all former club members season, Notre Dame has a 3-5 record, and will face Bradley again in a 
on Thursday night at 7:30 in Room 15 of Sorin Hall. All former rematch this coming weekend in a three-game series at Jake Kline 
players unable to attend are asked to contact Clark Gibson at 8-448. 
Field. -The Ohsen,er -The Obsen,er 
Notre Dame­Michigan State 
Box Score 
Saturday's Game 

Nolre Dame  2  9  0  0  11  
Mtchtgan State  0  0  3  0  3  
Scoring  

ND -Safety, Leister tackled tn end zone 
ND-Johnston 33 FG 
ND-Johnston 29 FG 
ND-Johnston 42 FG 
MSU-Mo1s1ejenko 50 FG 
NO MSU Ftrst downs 16 13 Rushtng attempts 59 28 Net Yards Rushtng 154 19 Net Yards Passtng 126 121 Passes camp-attempted 9-20-16-40 Had Intercepted 0 0 Total Net Yards 280 140 Fumbles-lost 0-0 4-2 
Penalttes-yards 5-45 5-61 Punts-average 11-41 5 10-48 5 Individual Leaders 
RUSHING-Notre Dame Caner 36-101; Monarty 12-57. Ptnkett 5-11; Mtchtgan State Toney 3-20. Roberts 5-14. Hawktns 2-14. Ellis 9~6. 
PASSING-Nolre Dame· Ktel9-20~3. 126, Mtcht­gan State Letster 8-21-2. 101. Kolb 8-18-2. 20 Toney 0-1~0. 0. 
RECEIVING-Notre Dame: Hunter 3-46; Howard 2~39. Favonte 1-17. Pearcy 1-15~ Mtchtgan State Toney 4-27. Ellis 3~17. Turner 2-20. Robinson 2~19. Jones 1-12, 
Attendance-77.119 (c) 
The Observer w111 accept classtfteds Mon­day through Fnday~ 10 a.m to 430 pm However. classtfteds to appear 1n the next 1ssue must be rece1ved by 3 p.m_ the bustness day pnor to 1nsert10n All classtfteds must be prepa1d 
e1ther rn person or through the ma11
Classifieds 
CABINS FOR RENT -45 mtnutes from Need 4 GA s and 2 students tor Anzona I have two MIAMI tickets to sell Only !he
need 2 Mtam1 GAs for Parents W11f Pay to Celeste. Ellen. and the other SMC partyNotre Dame 616-424~5817 Call SMC 4451 nch need call Phone 283~ 1745
Top Dollar Call Scott at 1735 ammals-thanx for makmg our happy hour a fun 11me-the Office Needed Mtamt Ttx Call Btll at 8922 DESPERATE FOR 2 MIAMI GA TICK~ NEED 2 PENN ST GAS OR STUDENT 
NOTICES 
ETS WILL PAY $$$ CALL MIKE AT Dodger fans. Especially the person who

TIX AM WILLING TO TRADE 2 MIAMI called the Braves Nobody s Team , 
Need mega-bad JUSt ONE ARIZ ltcket lor 1475 
GAS. BUY PENN ST TIX. OR SELL OF YOUR STUDIES?? CALL MICHOLE Conn1e at 4311 MIAMI TIX IF CAN OBTAIN 2 PENN ST IS YOUR HAIR GETTING IN THE WAY WANTED MoM (ftrsl ND game smce 1961) Call season ttckets are now available tor the 
NEED 2 MIAMI & 2 ARIZONA Atlanta Braves 1983 season Be a wtn­

FOR A HAIRCUT rODAY' ONLY $4 FOR TIX HELP MY FAMILY VISIT ME ON GAs.$.CALL DAN 239·6264 or 287~ 7594 ner. Support AMERICAS TEAM'GUYS AND $6 FOR G;RLS BEST TO Needed 2 Ttx to Penn State $ $ $ Bob THE WEEKEND OF MY BIRTHDAY Ted Turner
CALL AFTER 3 AT 7850 WANTED FEMALE ROOMMATE for 1723 CALL GARY AT 1152 FOR SALE 2 MIAMI GAS BEST OF­N D Apts thru X-mas $90/mth x1813 FER CALL BUD x 1160 Dodgers Blue
PORTRAITS-Drawn or Patmed lrom ltfe HELP' GIRLFRIEND WILL HAVE MY NEED 2 GAS FOR MIAMI CALL KATHY AT 1833
Ask for Dale Mainer al the TWO APTS 1n one house for rent each HEAD IF I DON T GET 5 MIAMI TIX' HELP" HELP" HELPII NEED TWO AMERICAS TEAM 
has LR. KT SR. front porch 165/175 tOR JEFF 2257 MIAMI GAS CALL 233~5938 FOR JIM WORD PROCESSING SYSTEM $2995 FOR SALE 2 ARIZONA STUDENT TIX AMERICAS TEAM 
320 for whole house) & uttliltes. 718 E AMERICAS TEAM35 DOLLARS OR BEST OFFER CALL

64K Mlcrocomputer.leller qual1ty pnnter. Colfax. 234-4620 eventngs I NEED 2 MIAMI TICKETS AND 1 PENN NEED MIAMI and ARtLONA GAS Call. 
SCOTT 1160 

Call277~ 7720 RIDE NEEDED I 0 THE NtW YORK BACKED INTO THE TITLE 
word process1ng software CP/M. Bas1c STATE. PLEASE CALL CINDY AT 7092 John at 1580 I need as many as possible 
PENN STATE TICKETS needed for CITY FOR OCTOBER BREAK· ~~WILL BACKED INTO THE TITLENeed 4 Mtamt GAs Call 1225 
Lake M1ch1gan beach cottage 30.mt from parents Call 4624 NEEDED YOUR MIAMI AND PENN ST
LEAVE WHENEVER AND WILL SHARE BACKED INTO THE TITLEND Sleeps 12 Ftreplace Outdoor bar­
HELP!! TIX. BIG TIME'" CALL 1627 TODAYTHE USUAL CALL CHRIS AT x3510 OR
beque Ideal for houseparttes $150 3 day Two damsels com1ng to VISit from West NEED 2 GAs Any Home Game KEN 
x8573 ANYTIME

weekend phone 616 469 0148 1722
Vtrgtnta are IN DISTRESS I NEED UP TO THREE STUD TIX OR even tho the dodgers choked. southern
Why? GAS TO ARIZONA AND PENN STATE
RIDE NEEDED TO WASHINGTON DC-~ cahforma wtll dommate the world sertes
NEED 2~4 GAs Mtamt KEN 1722 FOR OCTOBER BREAK CALL BREN~ when the Cal1forn•a Angels. Autry steam. 
Typ1ng Wanted 25 years expenence -Well. they need two GAs to the MIAMI WILL PAY A LOT CALL DAN 1801 
$1 00 page Call Phyllis 259~ 2501 game and can t seem to f1nd them NEED 2 MIAMI STUDENT TICKETS!
DAN ANVTIME-~WILL SHARE THE cru1se to the champ1onsh1ps Be a w1nner 
Please help CALL 8765 today. JOHNNY BENCH'S really close lnend
USUAL~~~ 7997 support a team that won 11 s dtvts1on IItie' 
HERPES FACTS booklet $2 Box 4682. CALL MICHELLE 3793 
needs 1 or 2 GA s tor MIAMI Call. Ken at So Bend. IN 46634 Need 3 or 4 GAs for ARIZONA game 8762
WANTED Responstble person to piCk up 

NEED 1 student Mtamt Ttckel call Paul connecticut club bus tor oct break!
Please call Tom ~ 3360 
NEED A RIDE TO FALL BREAK·~WILL 6721  BUFFALO OVER PAY CALL ROB  professional couple s children from school3 days/week. superv1se play. ap­px 10 hrs/wk. 5/hr & gas; car reqUired 234-4620 evemngs  Will trade 1 Artzona GAtor e1ther 1 M1am1 GA or student ttckel Call Dave at 1380  6829 Need two GAs for any remam1ng home game. wtll pay cash money Call Dan at  Must SWAP my two MIAMI GAs for two ARIDZONA GAs Please call Cratg at 8477  signups in LaFortune lobby Tues. 10/ .5 at 7 ·30pm Stopptng tn NYC.Fatrheld.Hartford Cost 80 bucks for tnfo call 8830  
attenz1one' all former and present mem­bers ot SSAB please' contact btg cheese carlo at x 8825 LOST/FOUND Lost Patr of gold w1re nm glasses on Thursda v 9/23 between the Grotto and Hayes~Heaty Reward Call Bob 282­1857 LOST KODAK INSTAMATIC CAMERA Lost at M1chtgan Game·atsle 32·33 lnt­ NEED RIDE TO LITTLE ROCK OR MEMPHIS for October Break Can leave as early as Wed n1ght W1ll share dnv1ng. usual. Call Greg 234-2456 Need nde to Jersey Shore. near Deal or Monmouth County area For October break I can reave on Thursday. Oct 21 Please call 4624 STUDENT REP NEEDED to promote our annual Spnng Break lnps to Flonda and our W1nter Skt Tnps Reps rece•ve Free Tnps Call or wnte Coastal Tours Inc. P 0 Box 68. Oak Forest. IL 60452 No •s 1312) 535 3212  desperately need 1 pa1r GAs to Artzona game $no ObJeCt Call Tom at 232~ 7793 after llpm WANTED 2 Mtamt GAs CALL Vtnce x3155 Need t STU TICK and 2 GAs lor MIAMI PLEASE HELPII CALL 289-9304 Needed 2 Penn St GAs & 2 St TX Mark 4258 NEED 2 MIAMI GAS NAME YOUR PRICE CALL 3242 Trade~ I have 2 G A Mtamo~need 2 G A  234-9580 Desperately need 2 Penn State GAs for Moms b·day Call Lmda 4412 WANTED GAs for PENN STATE and PITT CALL BILL~6768 PLEASE SELL US 2 GAs FOR MIAMI' WILL PAY$$$$' Call Tern at 277-4820 or Nadme at 1302 ~HELP' I need 2 Mtamt GAs Laura 4432 Mom .md Dad send the1r regrets but the~ can 1make 1t to M1am1 So now Im stucl< w1lh two GAs Won 1 you please help rne  DESPERATLY NEED 6 ARIZ GAS CALL ROB 6827 MIAMI~Help frtend 15 commtng whO has NEVER seen an IRISH game and NEEDS one STUDENT OR GA' call 8385' HELPIII W111 trade2 30 yard line M1am1 GA ttckets for 2 Penn State GAs (wtlhng to deal) or Wtll pay b1g $ s 1f no trade Ill Call Morgte at 4416 Neect 1 Stud T1x or 1 GA l1x lor M1am1 Please cal! Mary 8067 NEED 2 MIAMI GAS CALL MIKE 277~  AWESOME SENIORCiassT~SHIRTSonsalesoon 2 colors to choose from dent be lett wtth­out 1 Further deta1ls comtng Ktekergaard was a GUMBlAST II But Scott IS the GUMBlEST" Mary Kay-please come back-all•s lor­g1ven -I prom1se no more talk of leather and cnsco sorry about the damage 10 your room -the check IS 1n the ma11 · see you 2n1te OKTOBERFEST THURS IHE 7TH AT SMC  
lidl5 are on 11 5443  M V S  Please Call  284­ Need nde to Dayton or C1ncmnat1 Oct Clatre 284 4379  Penn State-call Glenn-3248 WANTED 4 GAs for Penn State game  out? Call C J at 1975 TRADE I HAVE 4 MIAMI  GA s~Will  6880 GIRLFRIEND  WONT  HAVE  FUN  Roller skate on campus 1H3 hrs $3 50 dt Angela 4~7 p m Sound of MuSIC 7 p m Cdrrol Hall {also  
LOST PINK PLAID UMBRELLA OF GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE WOODEN HANDLE AND LEATHER  R1de needed for 2 to Connecticut tor Fall Break Wtll share usual Call Mdtt~ 3267  Will pay b1g bucks Call collect Steve Longley at312-565~5959. ext 2081  TRADE x3669  FOR  4 ARIZONA GAs  CALL  DURING VISIT UNLESS SHE GETS A SfUD TICKET TO A.RIZONA GAME CALL PHIL AFTER 6 00 277·0249  shown Oct 6J · Beer Garden!'1 B 11 30 p m Featur1ng the No Problern Band 1For uncjer 21  
CARRYING STRAP PLEASE 1111  CALL MO AT 4076  Desperately needed 2 MIAMI GAs wolf pay mega$$ Call Randy 7982  NEED 3 MIAMI GAs CALL RICH AT 277~ 1650 EVENINGS  NEED 2 MIAMI GAS BADLY CALL TOM  Mustc. food good company)  
8706  GRAND OPENING of DARBY S PLACE  
LOST value  10 bracelet at great sent1mental engraved w1th Bnojget If found  TICKETS  NEED ONLY ONE GA to GOOD$$' Dave 8296  MIAMI game'  HELP' MARCHING BAND MEMBER NEEDS TWO MIAMI TIX FOR F"MILY  Need MIAMIItx-Please call1738  TONIGHT II• Come to the basement of LaFortune at  
please call232·5208  CALL RON A_T 3403  m1dn1ght  and  hdve  a  p1ece of cak.e  to  
DESPERATELY  NEED FOUR  TIX  TO  1 need MIAMI ltcs so BAD thai 11  ts  UN~  celebrate•  We H be open  1111  JAM  w1th  
Re Lost UmbrelLa. I screwed upnt If you have found a ptnk platd urnbrella. ·call me at 46701task tor Mo) P S No. I m not a fresh. JUSt a atrhead  need 2 GAs for ARIZONA game call Lauren (smcJ 5072 HEY all you crazy wild people out there 11 I need Ttckets and w111 pay you all the  ARIZ GAME GA OR STUD PLEASE CALL 42 81" HELP' Fam1ly and lnends want to see awesome lnsh Need 2 GAs for Anzona  I NEED MIAMI GAs"' DAVE 1773 Need 2 GAs lor Mtamt game Call Randy at3349  REAL 11 call John 3460 I Sid or GA) NEED 1 MIAMI GA-Iiltle bros game1CALL CHIP3137  1 sl  munchtes ltnclud1ng POP-TARTS') and coffee for your study break See you there11 HAPPY 21st AND 22nd BIRTHDAY CAP~  
FOUND  Calculator on 9/30  Call Janel  money  I have  for  2 Penn  St  GA's  111  and  1 Stud  for Penn St  Call Kevtn  at  1 need Mtam• ttx 3 stud  2 G A Ptease call  TAINS  AMERICA  AND  STRANGE"'  
4571 and tdenllty LOST Patr ol ladtes  glasses.  plasttc  Please make my parents tnp worthwh1le and your wallet much heav•erl call very nch ctndy at 2948 NOW  1441  Joe 8269 I HAVE 2 MIAMI GAs  WILL TRADE  PERSONALS  MAY YOUR SEI)MONSTERS BE FEW AND YOUR PIERCING VISION AL~ WAYS DETECT AND DECODE THE  
brown frames w1th lint of apncot  Please  THEM  FOR  2  PENN  ST  GAs  CAN  SECURITY  CODE  1 N  ADMIRING  
call239-?t641KathyJ  YO! I need 4 l1ckets for Penn State Bruno  MAKE UP ANY DIFFERENCE WITH$$  SABOTAGE MISSION St 'RVIVOR  
STILL LOST: Large bull Answers to the name ot Bevo to prov1de Information (You know who you are ) LOST I ~.IANILA FOLDER GERMAN (..ALL rOM 8711  Call 8765 ~ABE_LED  and the rest of the Mob tram Ph1lly w111 do me 1n 1f I don I get them Money 1S no problem Call Fran 4385 Need 2 GAs; to the Penn State Ga.rne can rade up to 4 G A s lor the> Mldflll game Catl712~755-3156dav or3277 Need 2 or more GA •:x to any nome game esp MIAMI 8tg buck $S Mauree'· 5097 iSMCJ  FOR SALE WORD PROCESSING SYSTEM $2995 64K Microcomputer letter qualtty prtnter. word processtng sohware CP/M HasJL Call 277~ 7720  CALL MIKE at1978 NEED MIAMI TIX call Tom 1173$$ I HAVE TWO STUDENT TICKETS FOR MIAMI"! neeci 3 GAs for the same game W111 trade lor them ana make up the dll­ference tn cash ThiS may be vcur tast chance to get student t1x Call J1rT1 a: •1073  PICK YOUR OWN APPLESII at the John Hancock Frutl Farm From South Bend. take U S 20 east 6 mtles atter 20 crosses the lnd1ana East·West Toll Road turn rtghl (north) on Fatl Road. follow Stgns {2191 778-2096 Also ready­Picked apples. plums. pears. hOPt'v' Jams. candle5. etc VISit our Farm Market & orchards on· your way to and from Chtcago Open everyday from 9-6  WILD REGINA WOME~ Today once aga1n you can vote fc. a UNtl EO REGINAwtth Karen BRADY and Kalht H.1RTWEGER from snowy from unny Regma Nortt-t Reg1na South Happy 22na Dave Dahlstrom Your Roomte  
FOR RENT Furntshed homt d. r;.uckS from Cdmpus dl5o country house 10 nuns Irom N 0 Coll:'77~3604 or 288~0955  THERE ONCE WAS A GIRL FROM N. D WHOSE PHONE WAS 7933 SHE NEEDED GAS SO HELL WOULDN'T RAISE FOR THE GAME VERSUS MIAMI-EE 1t"ldd to mal-;e-11 rnyme i'.J..­know 01ane WILL p.:ty b1g bliCK~ rne parental un1ts are \tery 'lft-althy1  WILL PAY BIG MONEY FOR 4 PENN STATE GA TIX. CALL 312-565-5959 COLLECT AND ASK FOR STEVE LONGLEY 'NEED TiCKETS FOR -....t MIAMI G ~MF CALL 2771 709  NEED TWC TICKETS FOR MIAMI;G A OR STUDENT.CALL 1247.ASK FOR PAT OR I PAUL GETTY HELP" MIAMI GAs DESPERATELY NEECED i3) SSS CALL KEVIN a:1580  Joe& Ed Just because I fell tor fOur con game •Joesn 1 mean that 1won 1gP.t what IS due to me {I should sdy 4 p n, Wedne~day but n1ose soundle\ldves m1ght sltll be bounc1ng :n your bra•n5 ) I II Sf'e somet•rne aftP.r 'il(' ::..t.1mpedf. r,:tears Your f;;tvortle ed1tor  Ch1cago -ntce town Oocooo c..;n,rago 1 Ch1c3go-comparabale to c-·-1----Chtcago wa~ c..alh  Uoyd Joe  


,------­
I The Observer 
l 
! 
l r 

Phil Carter, who got banged up in his last visit to EastLansing in 1980, didn't fare much better on Saturday. Carter again was abused, but managed 101 yards rushing on 36 carries. Here, MSU's Howard McAdoo (55) does the honors. (Photo by Rachel Blount). 

ENGINEERS/COMPUTER SCIENCE GRADUATES 
We're McDonnell Douglas-one of the world's leaders in fast moving, exciting fields . military and commercial aircraft. missiles. spacecraft. electronics. automation and health 
And we're looking for people who are looking for the oppor­tunity to put what they've learned to work-people like you. 
What we offer is a wide variety of advanced technical pro­jects and a chance to get involved, really involved, in pro­grams on the leading edge of technology. 
,.,·:.-,: .· 

Monday, October 4, 1982-page 12 
Bauters injured 

Irish slump in SMC.Invitational 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 

"I'm going into my third year, and I've never been so frustrated." 
That was Notre Dame women's volleyball coach Sandy Vanslager's reaction to her team's dismal weekend performance in the Saint Mary's Invitational. Even though it reached the semifinals of the tourna­ment, the team dropped five games in its poorest showing of the year. 
Moreover, the Irish suffered an in­jury to Karen Bauters, one of their most effective players. Bauters, the freshman scholarship player from Mishawaka, landed awkwardly on her ankle, and the coaches will not know the extent of the injury until tomorrow when tests show whether the ankle is sprained or fracrured. 
The team's performance left the coaches and Irish fans puzzled. After annihilating Manchester College in the first match (lS-2, I S-2 ), the team appeared ready to make a shambles ofthe rest ofthe field. Sud­denly, however, the team seemed to fall asleep, never to wake up. 
It was in the second match against lllinois-Benedictine that things began to go wrong for Notre Dame. The players began to let balls drop between them due to lack of com-
So. if you're an engineer or computer specialist who wants a job with real responsibility, sign up at your Placement Office for an interview. 
We'll be on campus: 
Monday, October 11, 1982 
/ 

MCDONNELL. DOUGLD'' 
An equal opportunity employer ~ 
I 

U.S. Citizenship required 
. .,. , . .,__ , ...._. &iiiJQUt 
munication. They also had problems 
scoring and made many mental 
mistakes, allowing Illinois­
Benedictine, a team with noticeably 
inferior talent, to take the match, 16­
14 and I 5-1 I. 
The bad streak continued in the 
next match with Hillsdale College. 
The Irish split two games, but made 
the semifinals because of a better 
point differential. Lake Michigan 
State College then eliminated them 
by a score of I S-1 I, I5-I2. 
The loss of BatHers and the ab­
sence of another starter. Terese 
Henken (who suffered a chipped 
bone in her knuckle), were major 
factors in the team's troubles. Anoth· 
er starter, Mary McLaughlin, had not 
completely recovered from an ill­
ness that caused her to miss a week 
ofpractice. 
"We had to move around posi­tions," explained Vanslager, "and we put in a couple of girls who hadn't played all year. 
"The concentration level was high in the first game, but then they panicked and froze. Their inner emotions were a hindering factor for their physical performance." 
"They weren't mentally prepared to step in and do the job," added As­sistant Coach Dan Anderson. "They were waiting for something to hap­pen, instead of making it happen themselves. 
"A lot ofgirls have gm playing ex­perience, but it wao; in a pressure situation and they arc inex­perienced in pressure situations." 
The fact that their opponents were not pushovers further com­

pounded  the  Notre  Dame's  
problems.  
"The last team  we  played, Lake  

.\1ichigan College, . wao; a strong team. not a weak team," explained Anderson. "If they had been a weak team, we would have beaten them." 
The loss of Bauters and Henken tor indefinite periods also points out some of the problems that have plagued the team all year. 
"We lost two ofour starters," said Vanslager, "who were tall and who were good blockers and good hitters and we have not been blocking or Jigging balls. We have not been playing a defensive game." 

The coaches were not totally dis­pleased with everything that hap­pened over the weekend. They were generally pleased with the play of some of their players, including Bauters, McLaughlin, Mary Jo Hensler and Maureen Morin (who played for the first time after recovering from an injury). 
"The skills are there," said Vanslager. "They just refuse to use their ability to the maximum. 

Fortunately for the Irish, their tournament record will go un­noticed by the NCAA. Only home and away matches are recognized in the standings. Therefore, the Irish are still 8-0 on the year. The pos­sibility of an NCAA tournament berth is there if the team is able to regroup itself and play to its poten­tial. 
Whether or not they do remains to be seen. 
Belles win one, drop tourney 
ByRENEFOY 
Sports Writer 
The 1982 Saint Mary's Invitational Volleyball Tournament was held Saturday, and the host Belles won one match, but dropped two others. 
The matches were set up into two pools offour teams. Each team in the pool played each other, with the top two in each pool competing for the pool championship. The victors in each pool then competed for the in­vitational championship. 
Saint Mary's first match wao; against Earlham College. The Belles played hesitantly, but claimed a !5­7, I 5-6 victory. Their second match against Southwestern Michigan was not played ao; well and this time Southwestern defeated the Belles 8­15, 11-15. 
Head Coach Erin Murphy remarked that overall, the girls played sluggishly. and that their pa:.­sing was weak as well a!'> the serving. 
Going into its third match, Saint .'\1ary's was one up.. one down. but still with a chance at the champion­ship. Suddenly St. \1ary's was up and fighting harder than ever against Lake Michigan. Loret llaney's playing was especially noted, as was the performance of Jenc Weigand, who played well off the bench. 
The match was very exciting with serves staying up ti>r tlve and six vol­leys, in addition to some excdlent spiking. Lake Michigan stole the vic­tory but not without a fight. The final scorewas 11-15, 12-15. 
Lake Michigan went on to beat Southwestern Michigan for the pool title, and then fought for the Invita­tional championship against Illinois Be,nedic.tine.d!!inoi.s call)~ out 1 the 
winner~. 1:1"'1: ~ ; .;1 i ~ . 
~~------------------~--------~ -~­
The Observer Monday, October 4, 1982 -page 13 
'· ..Struggle 

Continuedfrom page 16 
a~in~t the pa~"-We came into the game thinking pass rush, and that's what we did." 
Gann was responsible for the first score of the game, as he sacked Leis­ter in the end zone for a safety. 
Faust was pleased with all aspects of the defense. "Our kids kept them out offield goal range all but once," Faust said, "and on that Michigan State had to kick a 50-yarder. That was a heck ofa kick. 
"Everybody played weii on defense. That shows by the number of fumbles, sacks and interceptions there were." Notre Dame caused 
5-2 Belles rompover Rosary 
By GAIL KRAFf 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's tennis team defeated guest Rosary College Satur­day morning. 
Debbie Lauerie started things off by defeating Rosary's Lorraine Gaeke, 6-0, 6-I, while teammate \Iaureen fitzgerald triumphed over Sue Cheely 6-0, 6-0. The Belle~ won all other singles matches with Ann Huber beating Denise Butera 6-1, 6­2; Heather Temofew over Liz Syvertsen 6-I, 6-0; and Kim Kaegi overYohnee Choi 6-3,6-3. 
The team of Huber and Temofew were victorious in doubles play over Rosary's Gaeke and Butera bv scores of6-2, 6-1. The second doubies team 
of  Diane  Schnell  and  Michelle  
Spinosa  won  over  Syvertson  and  
Choi, 6-4, 6-4.  

The Belles' season record of 5-2 gives them the opportunity to com­pete in the NAIA districts at Franklin University this coming weekend. Fitzgerald commentedon her team's excellent record, noting that even the losses were close matches (5-4 and 6-3) The team will be compet­ing in the NAIA for the first time this fall. 
...Run 

Continued from page I6 
where these four have led Notre Dame. 
Bill Courtney turned in a heroic performance in cornering the sixth position. Suffering from severe heat exhaustion, Courtney weaved the last 20 yards before barely collaps­ing over the finish line. Deprived of his senses, Courtney was treated with an oxygen mask and ice for half an hour before finally being taken to the hospital by ambulance. He returned to Notre Dame Friday night feeling much better. 
While discussing the meet and heat, Piane commented, "It's been so cool the past few weeks that the sudden wave of heat really hit the runners. I've never seen anything like it, the times were definitely way down. 
'Tm very plea.o;ed with the way we ran. We were shooting tor fifth or better and we got it. There was some super competition out there today." 
Michigan ran to three of the top ten spots on its way to a total of 99 points, barely ahead of state rival Eastern Michigan's lO-t points. Il­linois State and Purdue also finished ahead of the Irish. Last year's meet winner, Bill Shuey of Purdue, slipped to the 6-tth spot this year. 
In the second race, Southeast Mis­
souri's Mike Vanatta won with a time 
of 2-i:·H. South Dakota claimed the 
No. I spot as a team with only 56 
points. a full -i5 points ahead of 
se(;ond-pbce Southeast Missouri. 
four  Spartan  fumbles  (recovering  
two). and recorded ten tackle  
hind the line ofscrimmage ti:>r a total  
loss of '"'2 yards, in addition. to in­ 
tercepting four passes.  
Senior linebacker Mark Zavagnin  
affirmed  that  the  entire  defense  
played well together.  
"You have to give a lot ofcredit to  
our line," he said, "because they put  
a lot of pressure on  their quarter­ 
back early. We had to stop Michigan  
State's passing game because they  
have excellent receivers, but with  
backs like Aaron Roberts and Marcus  
Toney, we knew we had to stop their  
run too."  
Zavagnin.  who  recovered  a  
fumble and intercepted a pa.~s  him­ 
self, notes the improvement that the  
defense has made in its approach to  
each game. "The biggest difference  
over last year is that we're playing  
more  as  a  team.  We're  not  just  
relying  on  one  or  two  people  to  
make the play. Everyone is trying to  
get to the ball. That's a good attitude tor a team to have." • The Irish continue to improve,  Nowhere  
but they're still quick to note that they have not reached their poten­tial yet.  togo  
"We need a lot more work," Toran  
said, "but we're getting better."  

r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, 
t t 
t 
t
t t t 
L 



U) Fast...Free 
r---------------~I I
• 0 Delivery 1 Only 1 !c I $6.99 ;
:EN I I•
' 0~ Call us. I Good Mondays Only... I I Only $6.99 for a 16" 1-item 1
• aa. 
0 277·2151 I pizza plus 4 Colas (a $2.19 1 1835 South Bend Ave. I value). Tax not included. 
I One coupon per pizza. Throbbing head? Free 30 minute pizza I Expires: 12/31/82 Quaking body? Has delivery and 10 minute Monday dealt another pick-up service. I Fast, Free Delivery
I

crushing blow? Revive 1835 South Bend Ave. yourself with a well­Hours: I Phone: 277·2151 rounded meal from 11 :00 -1:00 Sun. -Thurs. I Domino's Pizza We'll help 11 :00-2:00 Fri. &Sat. I smooth the wrinkles out of I your day. Our drivers carry less I 
than $10.00. 
I I

©19B2 Oommo·s Pt<ta. Inc. Limited delivery area. I 
® 26213/26so 
~---------------~ 
Ihe ObserYer  _t  
MANDATORY WORKSHOP  t·  
for all News Reporters  t  
Tues. 6:30  tt  
LaFortune  t  
Little Theatre  t  

~~~~~~~J 
J ! 
/ 

Irish tailback Phil Carter is about to nm into a wall of MSU defenders on this fourth-quarter, fourth-down play from the one yard line. The Spartan goa/line stand was to no avail, however, as they were unable to muster any offensil'e attack in the remaining minutes. (Photo by Scott Bower). 

s... ·o;:.,·.:Ju --·~,_·,.:):a ........ ·--,," (.'~a!("e...._to. ,, t:-c,J .'.,'!(",.... sta·-·e~,·'lt:'' Hu:-L1' ···a P .... ~v-· :r·t:·~ :l.' a...,... : U·..... : or tc:.· !.J 'T'dr',_ Supel-Q,J,! Ra·s..·r B~· J'T',_ o.. : "'t>' -20 ';~r-r.:o~::-d".J t:'~-"· ... ~na'"'.J Car.., Grdnt KnO\\~ S'"~t' ~a··.'!:.":, ..... : ci .t..:~ -.;.: c'<l.J c:i'".J r'..JGt<S ne: cr a dt'at"'.-nouse StOr\ tnat tur"~ 
·~!u ed~t·~O'lt? '"~ater e1 

Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum Admission ..........--lr~U~IIt31tilr 7pm $ z.oo 

r 
------~­

------------------------· 
The Observer Monday, October 4, 1982 -page 14 
College football 

LSU upset highlights weekend 


Pitt didn't have any points until Bryan Thomas' three-yard touch­down run with 10:52 left to play. That cut West Virginia's lead to 13-7 and Pitt went ahead 14-13 on Dan Marino's eight-yard pass to Julius Dawkins with 3:23 remaining after Dan Short recovered a fumble by Mountaineer quarterback Jeff Hos­tetler with 6:04 to play. 
Marino, who threw his 1Oth and 1 1 th interceptions in four games but wound up with 20 completions in 41 attempts for 21 I yards, became Pitt's all-time total offense leader with 6,579 yards. Tony Dorsett, col­lege football's career rushing king with 6,082 yards, had 6,526 all­purpose yards. 
Turner Gill's 58-yard pass to Todd Brown with 3:32 left in the first half sapped a 7-7 tie and Nebraska went on to overwhelm Auburn with three touchdowns in the tlnal period. Mike Rozier scored twice for the Cornhuskers on runs of 2 and I 2 yards. 
Illinois' Tony Eason teamed up with Mike Martin on an 80-yard scoring pass and Kirby Wilson returned a punt 46 yards for a touch­down as the lllini drubbed Min­nesota. .\like Hohensee passed for two TDs and scored one ro give Min­nesota a 24-20 lead, but Illinois scored 22 points in the final period on two touchdowns -the Eason­Martin pass play and Wilson's punt return, two field goals and a safety. 
Washington struggled for the second game in a row. The Huskies, who came from behind to beat win­less Oregon a week earlier, led San Diego State by only 18-1 7 in the second quarter -they trailed 14-6 earlier in the period -but Vince Newsome's 43-yard punt return trig­gered a four-touchdown down burst. Steve Pellue threw three TD passes and Chuck Nelson kicked four field goals, giving him an NCAA record 19 in a row. 
Brewers beat O's, face Cal. 
BALTIMORE (AP)-Robin Yount 
smashed a pair of home runs and a 
triple as the Milwaukee Brewers 
beat the Baltimore Orioles 10-2 yes­
terday on the final day of the season 
to capture their first American 
League East Division championship. 
Cecil Cooper and Ted Simmons 
also homered for the Brewers, who 
spoiled Baltimore's storybook 
weekend comeback on Earl 
Weaver's final day as manager of the 
Orioles. 
Baltimore had won three in a row 
to tie the race, but the Brewers won 
the one game they needed to ad­
vance to the AL Championship 
series against the California Angels 
starting tomorrow night in Anaheim. 
Atlanta backs in 
SAN DIEGO (AP) -Atlanta clinched the National League West championship yesterday, capping a roller-coaster season that finally saw the Braves win their frst division title since 1969 despite losing 5-1 to San Diego. 
The Braves, who built their season on streaks -both winning and losing -finally won the division when the San l'rancisco Giants . defeated the Los Angeles Dodgers 5­3 the same afternoon. Joe ,\1or­gan's three-run homer in the seventh inning wa' the key hit in the Giants' victory. The blow. olf Dodger reliever Terry Forster (Fernando Valenzuela had started). snapped a 2-2 tic. 

By HERSCHEL NISSENSON ~ 
AP Sports Writer 

Some of the college football scores on any given weekend may be hard to fathom, but there's really nothing all that complicated about it, according to Florida Coach Char­ley Pell. 
"Football is a simple game -you come down to your basic tackling and blocking," Pell said Saturday af­ter his fourth-ranked Gators were knocked off by LSU, 24-13. "LSU blocked better t'han we did, tackled 
better  than  we  did  and  they  
deserved to win."  
After  emotional  victories  over  

Miami, Southern Cal and Mississippi State, Florida was one of two mem­bers ofThe Associated Press Top 20 to lose to an unranked team over the weekend. Minnesota, the No. 19 team, was upended by Illinois 42-24. 
Meanwhile, second-ranked Pitt scored all its points in the final 11 minutes to overcome a 13-point deficit and nip No. 14 West Virginia 16-13, while eighth-ranked Nebraska shook off last week's heart­breaking 27-24 loss to Penn State and crushed No. 20 Auburn, 41-7. 
Washington, the nation's No.1­ranked team, broke open a close game in the second halfand downed San Diego State 46-25; fifth-ranked Alabama trimmed Arkansas State 34­7; No. 6 Georgia held off Mississippi State 29-22; seventh-ranked South­ern Methodist trounced North Texas State 38-1 0; No. 9 UCLA whipped Colorado, 34-6 and No. 10 Arkansas zapped Texas Christian 35­
0. 
In the Second Ten, No. 11 Notre Dame shaded Michigan State 11-3; No. 12 North Carolina blanked Georgia Tech 41-0; No. 13 Arizona State toppled Kan.sas State 30-7; No. 15 Texas burned Rice 34-7; No. 16 Southern Cal hammered Oregon 38­7; No. I 7 Miami defeated Louisville 28-6 and No. I 8 Boston College turned back Temple 17-7. 


values from 150-2 50 BASEBAL SLEEVES and jerseys values to 10°0 and up! 
~~~====================================== 
~~~~~===========================M=o=n=d=ay='=O=c=to=b=e=r=4,=1=9=8=2===p=ag=e=1=5
Doonesbury 

Simon 




In The Rough 
~--------------~· 


A~HJ'T VE~V OI3LI61N6 11'1 ~E.ll,&uv5. r 6U£S1 rT's 
WilY, ALEX f ~oRE. Tilt brRt.~ 

TiloSf. v1~E~ Lt1'ST NlbHT ~ 
HERE A~ErJ'T Vt:RY O~LIC.IIJI. .

•&ool>t.Vi •. T IJAo A Fu/J 
ME l)f'/ r /JAI) TO 6ET S£1/(N IJW\ !!UT I'l't fiEAOIIJb 
Bur You HAvE LOH 01 

~T, TciiE~ ' A~Jo I ~fl<) roo 
r/tuiJ!: To rOf~rFY Tltti II
TIME. To 'STuOV /3[( AU'if Of IT 1 

BA<Ii: ~IJ~ ro P~l)uf. 

~~ 


ACROSS 1 Jumble 5 Overpower 
10 Norse name 
14 English composer 15 Weapon supplier r--..,......---.-,-2--.--3---, 16 Eastern 

The Daily Crossword 
1 
teacher ~+--+--+----l 17 Wild pansy 19 Smooth· ~+--+--+----l spoken 20 Uraeus ~+--+--+----l 21 Ropes for vaqueros 22 Loch­monster 23 Relative ~-f--4-...j 24 A-U 26 Cause pleasure 

34 Witch of­35 Scoria 36 Arafat's 
group 37 "It's-to tell a lie" 38 Southern 
beauty 40 Adam­41 Electric 
unit 42 Celebration 43 Cylindrical 
muscle 44 Enamors 48 Tyke 49 Ger. 50 Final 53 Rivulet 56 Purchase 59 Nautical 
term 

Garry Trudeau 
Campus 
12:15 
p.m. -Workshop Lecture, "Latin America in the 1930's", Prof. Carlos Diaz Alejandro, Yale University, Library Lounge 

12:15 
p.m. -Lecture, "Reassembling the Dust: Notes Toward the Art of Biography", Prof Paul Mariani, University of Massachusetts, Rooms 100· 104 CCE 


3:30 p.m. -Computer Minicourse, Plotting Overview, Room 115 Computing Center 4 p.m. -Annual Address of Fr. Hesburgh to the Faculty, Washington Hall 6 p.m. -Meeting ofthe Graduate Student Uni­on Representatives, Wilson Commons 7 p.m. -Debate, Should We Support/Demand a Bilateral Nuclear Freeze, Dr. Anthony Black, and Dr. Craig Hartzer, Carroll Hall SMC, Sponsored by Department of Philosophy 7 p.m. -Washington D.C. Ex-interns Or­ganizational Meeting, Lafortune Room 2·0, Open to all Ex·interns .., p.m. -Art and Letters Student Advisory Council Information and Suggestion Desk, Memorial Library Concourse '7 p.m. -Monday Night Film Series, "His Girl Friday", Annenberg Auditorium, S2.00 7:30p.m.-Meeting ofthe Faculty Senate, 202 CCE 
7:30 p.m. -Writers and Other Troubadours, Rita Owen, Cornucopia Restaurant, S I. 50 8 p.m. -Lecture, Lessons of the Falkland Islands and Current Government Policy in Great Britain, Ms. Sally Oppenheim, Library Auditorium, Sponsored by SUAC 9 p.m. -Monday Night Film Series, "Psycho", Annenberg Auditorium, S2.00 
T.V. Tonight 
Jeb Cashin 
Svenjohnson 
~1\.riA/J. IJOT A~l Til£ bi~L~ A~E llli:f TIIAT. &:StDi.S, Nf.U 1-itfl( Y«J'Ll 6E 5o I.£1~Tf0 Ylll lbl•r FElL A Tllt1J6 • 
. 

• •• • (1-ll(r\tJU•• Is £()mill~ t() ~utlll3t?llcl t
•
• Don't miss the ticket lottery! 
•
• October 7 7:30pm. 
•
•
.. 

6p.m. 16 22 28 34 6:30P.M. 16 22 28 34 7p.m. 16 22 28 34 7:30p.m. 22 8p.m. 16 
22 
28 9p.m. 34 10p.m. 16 22 34 10:30p.m. 16 22 llp.m. 28 11:30p.m. 16 28 
.an
Brl 

NewsCenter 16 22 Eyewitness News Newswatch 28 The MacNeil/Lehrer Report MASH Family Feud Tic Tac Dough Straight Talk Little House on the Prairie Square Pegs That's Incredible Great Performances Private Benjamin 
Monday Night at the Movies: "Hopschotch" CBS Monday Night Movie: "Bare Es· sence" ABC Monday Night Football Phillip Guston: A Life Lived NewsCenter 16 22Eyewitness News The Dick Cavett Show Tonight Show Trapper john and Columbo Newswatch 28 
Late Night With'David Letterman ABC News Nightline 
The saga of a 
6 month old domer. 
• 
.. 
• 
60 Pulses 62 Holywom· en: abbr. 63 Cat·-· tails 64 To­
(perfectly) 65 Separate 66-down 
(muted) 67 Russia 
DOWN 1 Laughing 
sound 2 God of war 3 Cookie 4 Pronoun 5 Black 
bucks 6 Lei 7 He loves: 
Lat. 8 Butte 9 Keep 
10 Nourishing 
drink 11 Govern 12 Showy 
flower 13 Chicago team 18 More 
sincere 23 Soon 25 Give-try 26 Loved ones 27 Start 28 "Swan Lake" 
name 

29 Burstyn or Drew 30 Indian mulberry 31 "Turandot," for one 32 More mature 33 Accomplish, old style 38 Finest effort 39 ike's command 40 Root vegetable 
42 Polly Holliday show 
43 Certain 
finger 45 Witness 46 Forever, 
to poets 47 Not standing 50 Maiden 51 Palo­52 Fortune· 
teller 54"-clock scholar" 55 Precipita· tion 56 Cave 
dwellers 57 Indians 58 River in 
France 61 -de Cologne 

6RlAN ,5 SUBSCR l PTION CAME JN THE. MAIL 
....

i Notre Dame Student Union nresents · !
=··TniRoiioraEle··sair··;c{······en'fiel'm·:··M·i'·: • 
:..........~em~ero;·,;;:im·e·~~nisffr·riiOtCiie?s· ..........: ••• 
• Cabinet •• eMember of Parliament since 1970 • : eRecent Minister to the U.S. : 

-~~------~--------~ ~ ~-~--~-~~ -----­
~ -~ -------~~­
~~-----------------­
I 
Monday, October 4, 1982 -page 16
I ~ S~orts 
~ ~ 
Irish shut down MSU in defensive struggle 
By DAPHNE BAILLE 
Sports Writer 
EAST LANSING, Mich. -There's a maxim in football that says the of­fense sells the tickets but the defense wins the games. 
Both the Michigan State and Notre Dame defenses excelled here Satur­day, but it was the Irish defense that triumphed in the end, as Notre Dame defeated Michigan State 11-3. 
"This was a defensive battle both ways," said Irish head coach Gerry Faust after the game. "! think you win football games with defense, and our defense rose to the occasion today." 
• 
The Notre Dame offensive unit was not so successful, as the Spartans 
forced them to leave town without scoring a touchdown. The last time the Irish won a game without cross­ing the goal line was in 1970 when they beat LSU 3-0. 
"Offensively, we lacked a bit today," admitted Faust. "There are two reasons for that: one, Michigan State did an excellent job defensive­ly; two, there were certain times in the game when we just couldn't gamble." 
Senior placekicker Mike Johnston proved dependable as he has now connected on six-of-six on field goals in 1982. His field goals of 33, 29 and 42 yards caused Faust to shout to a staff member after the game, "Hey, we've got to give him a
.. game ball too." The Spartans held Notre Dame to 
Defense steals the shou; • • •agatn• 
EAST LANSING, Mich. -They've had some great defensive struggles in the past -the immortal 10-10 tie here in 1966 immediately comes to mind -but it's hard to believe that Notre Dame and Michigan State have ever put on a better display of defense than they did in Saturday's 11-3 Irish victory. 
Now, on the surface, it appeared that both teams' of­fenses were just plain inept. Perhaps they too had spent Friday night at Dooley's, like everybody else. Or maybe someone had slipped some Tylenol in their water bottles -you know, the extra extra strength kind. 
But don't be fooled. Defense dominated this game, from the first bone-jarring tackle on Phil Carter to Dave Duerson's clinching interception in the final minute. 
Defensive battles like the one on Saturday don't usually go over too well with football fans, who salivate at the sight of 60-yard bombs and flea-flicker reverses. Which explains why the lynch mob of77, 119 at Spartan Stadium booed their team mercilessly as early as the first quarter. 
Granted, MSU's offense looked like the Keystone Cops at times, but it really wasn't their fault. Blame the Irish. 
Notre Dame's defense was unstoppable on Saturday. Perfect. Awesome. 
The front four had what is becoming a typical game for them: four sacks, three other tackles for losses and a grand total ofonly 19 yards on the ground. Mike Larkin had 1 1 more tackles, his third straight game of double­figure tackles. But the most noticeable performance came from the Irish secondary. 
The defensive backs came under a lot of fire after 

Scott Campbell picked them apart last week. Coach 
Gerry Faust expressed his displeasure. And in this 
space, the secondary was questioned, abused and 
generally ragged on. 
What a difference a week makes. After changing their 

entire pass coverage philosophy -from going after the 
man to going for the interception -in practice last 
week, the secondary turned in by far its best perfor­
mance of the season on Saturday. 
Two MSU quarterbacks combined to complete just 

16-of-40 passes for only 121 yards and four intercep­
tions. The Spartans' longest passing gain all day was 14 
yards. 
The pass rush, ofcourse, had something to do with it. 

But the deep backs covered MSU's superb receivers like 
a foot ofsnow. 
What made the difference? 
"We worked hard all week on our coverage," said 

cornerback Chris Brown, who had two of the intercep­
tions and just missed a third at the end. "We changed so 
we would have more reaction to the ball. We used to lay 280 tmal yards ( 126 passing, 154 rushing), well below the 411 yard average the Irish had coming into the game. 
Defensively, however, the Irish shone. They again proved why they are number one in the country against the rush, as they held the Spartans to a mere 19 yards on the ground. Notre Dame opponents now average a very scant 23.7 net yards rushing per game. 
Faust was quick to praise his defensive coaching staff in the vic­tory. 
"We gave four game balls to the defensive coaches: Jim Johnson, George Kelly, Greg Blache and Jay Robertson," Faust said. "They (the defense) played heads up ball and stuck with the gameplan." 
The gameplan was to stop the Spartan passing attack, and the Irish did just that. Michigan State quarter­backs John Leister and Rick Kolb passed for 140 yards, but were only 16-of-40 with four interceptions. 
"We knew we had to stop their passing game," explained Notre Dame cornerback Stacey Toran, who led the Irish secondary with ten tackles. "Playing passing teams like Michigan and Purdue has helped our defensive line and our secondary defend against the pass." 
Sophomore flip tackle Mike Gann agreed. "We've played a few passing teams now," he said, "so we're get­ting a lot of practice defending 
See STRUGGLE page 13 


back and wait, then punish the receiver, give him a warning so that he won't come into that area the next time. 
"Now we emphasize going for the ball and going for the interception. We had four today, so I guess it's working." 
Michigan State's defense was no slouch, either. Led by a pair of talented linebackers, one a fourth-stringer making his first start ever, the Spartans held the Irish to just 280 total yards, 131 below their per-game average. 
James Neely and Jim Morrissey, the only linebackers in MSU's 5-2-4 defensive alignment, went hog-wild, combining for 41 tackles and dishing out punishment to the Notre Dame backs. Phil Carter managed I 0 I yards, but needed 36 carries to do so. Larry Moriarty was not a factor, as the Spartans completely shut down the mis­direction play that had been so successful against Michi­gan and Purdue. 
Everyone knew about Neely, the South Bend Adams product who always seems to have his best games against the Irish. But Morrissey was the big surprise. A last-minute starter, the sophomore from Flint, Mich., recorded 17 tackles, intercepted a pass and broke up two others. 
All of this had the Notre Dame coaching staff more than a little bit confused. Probably the most perplexed was quarterback and receivers coach Ron Hudson, who helps call the offensive plays from the press box. 
"I didn't know what to call in the fourth quarter," Hudson said. "Your guess is as goot.l as mine. They had everything shut off; they were very well prepared. 
"It was tough because when you're protecting a slim lead you don't want to go nuts throwing the ball. They took everything else away from us. I honestly didn't know what to do." 
In the end, it didn't matter. In the tourth quarter, the game was in the hands of the Irish t.letense. And considering Michigan State has not scored a single point in the fourth quarter in four games this year, the outcome never really was in doubt. 
So, call it a defensive struggle, or call it tedious, or call it boring as hell. Notre Dame is still undefeated, and for that you can thank the defense. 
Notre Dame defensive standouts Mike Larkin (42), Mike Gann (78) and Kez,in Griffith (56) get ready to pounce on Michigan State tailback Tony Ellis, an act that was repeated on several occa-
Friday soccer 

Irish dominate visiting Dayton 
By SAM SHERRILL 
.Sports Writer 

Before a near-capacity crowd Friday night, the Notre Dame soccer team outclassed the Dayton Flyers 5· 0 on two goals by senior Jay Schwartz and a great effort from goalie Gerard McCarthy. 
Notre Dame got things started early, peppering the Flyer defense with shots and offensive oppor­tunities from the outset. Opposing keeper john Kennedy barely managed to save two fine shots. 
But the Irish finally connected at 
13:04. Rich Herdegen started the play, turning beautifully on a defen­der and passing to freshman Joe Hohl. Hohl took it down the right side and crossed it into the middle, where Herdegen, out of nowhere, rushed in and volleyed it into the net past a beaten Kennedy. 
The Irish continued their all-out assault, but failed to score for the rest of the half Dayton was fairly quiet on offense, though two of its three shots hit the crossbar. 
The second half began in much the same fashion as the first, and the Irish scored at 48:45. Hohl threaded the needle with a nice pass down in­to the right corner. Jay Schwartz picked it up, charged in and beat t Kennedy from a sharp angle. 
That was when McCarthy took over. Twice within six minutes, he saved what looked to be sure goals. First came a one-on-one, and then a difficult shot from point-bl-ank range. 
Notre Dame closed out the scoring at 75:3 7 as Schwartz recorded his second goal. Hohl played a free kick down the left flank 

Irishfinish fifth in NDInvitational Meet 
ByNATRICH 
Sports Writer 
The University of Michigan finally pulled off a victory here at Notre Dame, turning in an excellent per­formance at Friday's ND Invitational Meet. 
As the largest and longest-running intercollegiate meet in the nation, the Notre Dame Invitational annual­ly attracts nearly 50 of the best teams from across the Midwest. Notre Dame's fifth place finish met the optimistic goal set by Coach joe Piane before the meet and proved that the Irish can run with the best the country has to offer. 
The 49 teams were divided into two t.livisions, with the most com­petitive 18 squads in one group and the rest in the other. Each division hat.! their own race, but tht: un­

i > 
sions in Saturday's JJ.3 lrish victor-,'. See stories on ND's defensive dominance o;, this page. (Photo by Scott Bower) 
seasonally hot weather took a toll on the tlnishing times. 
The winning time of 2--1:2.f, run bv Michigan's Tim Warneke, was ~ good -!0 seconds slower than the best finish in last week's National Catholic Invitational. A more noticable result of Friday's 80­degree weather could be seen in the toll it took on the runners' condi­tions. Ten runners wound up in the hospital by the afternoon's end suffering from heat stroke and related problems. 
Tim Cannon led the Irish runners with a time of 2-4:-!0, finishing in eighth place. Mark Wozniak finished just a step behind Cannon in grab­bing the ninth spot. Tim Bartrand and Andy Dillon were next for the Irish, making it three straight races 
See RUN page 13 
w ~teve cnang, w110 tllen cntpped it 
in high to Schwartz, who headed the 
ball down and in off a defender. 
The win puts the Irish at 6-3-1 for the season, with four more home games in the next two weeks. 
The large crowd certainly got its money's worth, as the Irish played their best soccer of the season. Rich Herdegen had a brilliant first half, creating numerous scoring oppor­tunities and notching what was to be the winning goal. In the second half, Schwartz took over, tallying two of the best goals the team has scored all year. 
The whole team played well. The midfield ofSchwartz, Hohl and Steve Berry controlled the flow for most of the night, and the defense, except for a few second-half lapses, con­tinually frustrated Davton's front 
line. . To put things in perspective. one should realize that Dayton is not ex­actly Valparaiso; one coach remarked before the game that the Flyers were a better club than Ohio State (which handled the Irish 3-1 two weeks ago). The halfbacks appear more settled now, and the front and back lines more organized. And with McCarthv at the back playing like he b, th~ Irish must feel more confident. Thev have the week offbefore Friday's big game against Western Michigan. 




