-------------~-~~--~----~~~-------~-------~-~-----­
.Walesa-page 5 

VOL. XVII, NO. 56 tht: 1ndq1l"ndl"IH ~tlllklll nt:w~papt:r ~crYing notre dame and saim mary·~ TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1982 
World leaders tnourn Brezhnev 
Soviet chiefburied Bush, Andropov in somber ceremony discuss relations 

yesterday for the funeral of Soviet leader Leonid I. Brezhnez•. Schultz and Vice President George Bush consulted with new Com­munist par~v chief Yuri Andropov. (AP Photo) 
Federaljudge rules draft laws invalid 
MOSCOW (AP) -Leonid I. Brezhnev, the steel­worker's son who guided the Soviet Union to the super­power heights, was buried yesterday in Red Square, in a somber military ceremony as grimly stolid as his 18 years at the Kremlin helm. 
His successor as Communist Party chief, Yuri V. Andropov, pledged in a eulogy to pursue Brezhnev's policies at home and abroad, and offered in a meeting with U.S. Vice President .George Bush to "build rela­tions" with the United States. 
Andropov warned, however, that the Soviets would "give a crushing rebuff to any attempt at aggression." 
Bush. first American leader to meet with the new Soviet chief, ~aid the problems of U.S.-Soviet relations are "far from insurmountable." 
The farewell to Brezhnev. under the gray skies and chill ofthe Moscow autumn, was reverant and muted. 
Hundreds of foreign leaders attended the ceremony, and tens of thousands ofSoviet citizens packed the vast central square, silently holding aloft scores of Brezhnev portraits trimmed in the red and black ofofficial mourn­ing. Over and over throughout the simple hour-long ceremony, a military band played the grieving strains of Chopin's "Funeral March." 
Before the remains were lowered into the grave -in the exclusive heroes' plot behind Lenin's mausoleum -Brezhnev's widow, Viktoria, bent over the open cof­fin and, weeping, kissed his cheek and forehead. 
Once the coffin was closed and interred, artillery crews fired off volleys, church bells tolled, and factory whistles howled in dozens of cities across this huge land, the tirst and greatest of the world's communist nations. Brezhnev was only the fourth supreme leader in its 64-year history. 
Brezhnev died of an apparent heart attack last Wed­nesday at age 75. Within two days, the Communist Party Central Committee had selected the 68-year-old Andropov, a former chief of the KGB secret police, to take his place as party general secretary, the most powerful post in the Soviet hierarchy. 
See BURIAL, page 4 • 
MOSCOW (AP) -United States Vice President George Bush and new Soviet leader Yuri \'. Andropov met for a half-hour after the Brezhnev funeral yesterday to discuss what both said was a desire to improve rela­tions between the superpowers. 
Bush said afterward the talks were "frank. cordial and substantive." 
The Soviet news agency Tass said Andropov told Bush the Kremlin was "prepared to build relations with the United States on the basis of full equality, non­interference, mutual respect for the interests of the peoples of both nations and the improvement of the international situation." 
The meeting came four hours after Andropov's predecessor as Communist Party general secretary. Leonid I. Brezhnev, was given a hero's burial in Red Square. 
It was the highest-level U,S.-Soviet meeting since Brezhnev signed the second strategic arms limitation treaty with then-President Jimmy Carter in June 19...,9. The Kremlin has cited the latter U.S. failure to ratify that treaty as one major cause oftension between the super­powers. 
Since President Reagan took office in January 1981, East-West relations also have worsened over Afghanis­tan, Poland, the Middle East, and Central America, as well as the arms race. 
Bush said he carried a message from Reagan for 
Andropov on "the strong desire of the United States to work for an improved relationship with the Soviet Un­ion." 
Reading a prepared statement before his departure from Moscow's Sheremetevo-1 Airport, Bush said, "As we leave Moscow, we are well aware of the difficult problCms that confront us. The challenges, while enor­mous, are far from insurmountable." 
Bush said he told Soviet leaders Washington is ready to conduct relations "with the aim of expanding the areas where our two i ....ions can cooperate to mutual advantage." 
See TALKS, page 3 

Self-government 
Residents 'come horne to~ Augusta 
By KIMBERLY MALOOF 
News Staff 
The convenience of living on campus and the responsibilities of self-government are combined un­der o t ne roofin Saint Mary's Augusta Hall. 
Augusta, the sole self-governing dorm, has the same rules and regula­tions as the other residence halls on campus, but has neither a front desk 
TUESDAy:::::;:f~;J~!:ima 



rx#.t.&t.FOCUS 
nor a residence director. Instead, there is only one residence assistant and a hall council. 
Students have manv reasons for chosing to live in the freer atmos­phere ofAugusta. 
Sarah Clark, Augt• .ta Hall presi­dent said, "As a fre~hman, my room overlooked Augusta. People using keys to let themsch L'S in made it seem like it was their home, not a dorm .. .The lack ofa front desk also helps eliminate the 'dormish' atmos­phere. This place is like a sorority without the bad connotations." 
Resident Sue Sommers said, "It's a myth that Augusta Hall is where all 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -A federal judge ruled yesterday that regula­tions requiring Selective Service registration were invalid, saying the government did not follow proper procedures when it enacted the law. 
U.S. District judge Terry HatterJr., in dismissing a draft-registration charge against a 21-year·old draft resister, said the time and place re­quirements of the presidential proclamation establishing registra­tion and a July 18, 1980, Selective Service regulation setting up the manner of registration were in valid" since they did not comply with a re­quired time period for notification. 
Hatter's ruling came after the government refused to turn over certain documents and evidence which the defense had sought and refused to permit White House counselor Edwin Meese III to testify in the case of David Wayte. 

butthisyearthereare 16juniorresi-================================================================== 
dents as well. 
Students apply to live in Augusta through a lottery that takes place in in mid-April, about a week before the housing picks for the rest of the campus. 
Sister Karol Jackowski, Director of Residence Life, meets weekly with Resident Assistant Aggie Roberts and with the h.-11 council when necessary. 
"Because everyone knows each other, there aren't many problt:ms with noise, theft, or lack of caretak­ing," said Jackowski. 
Dean of Student Affairs Kathleen Rice commented that, in past years, "the students thot;ght self­government meant no rules. That's not true of any community. This year, the students and I have the same ideas, and everything is working out well. Only once in the past four years has the hall council referred someone with a problem to 


Man arrested for Saint Mary's assault 
By MARGARET FOSMOE 
Saint Mary's ExecutiveEditor 
Wayne Roben Shisler, 24, from El­gin, Ill., was arrested by the Saint Joseph County Sheriffs office for public intoxication, disorderly con­duct and attempted ass.mlt after an incident at Saint Mary's last Saturday evening. 
Two students were walking from their car in the LeMans Hall parking lot at approximately 9 p.m. when they noticed the suspect standing between parked cars near the south end ofthe lot, according to a release from the Saint Mary's Public Rela­tio:ls office. 
The suspect began chasing the students and managed to grab one woman's coat and drag her down, according to the report. Both stu­dents escaped and ran into LeMans Hall where they called Saint Mary's Security. 
Security officers Joe Goddard and Harry Chabera responded and found the suspect hiding between parked cars. The suspect tried to escape but was apprehended by security officer Debbie Lewis and another man, Phil Bambenek, who was working traffic control for the Lily Tomlin ap­pearance that evening. 
See ARREST, page 4 
Hatter said the government failed 
to prove that Wayte had not been 
the subject of selective discrimina­
tion in the prosecution of draft 
registration resisters. 
At the same time, he said the presidential proclamation was put into effect too soon. 
Along with the congressional grant ofauthority cited by President Carter came the responsibility to guarantee a 30-day period prior to the final publication of the proclamation for notice and com­ments, court documents said. 
"The court cannot close its eyes to the fact that the proclamation became effective a mere 21-days af­ter it was published," Hatter said in his ruling. 
He also cited the government's refusal to turn over the documents and permit Meese's testimony at a special evidentiary hearing. Wayte's case had yet to come to trial. 
U.S. Attorney Stephen Trott said the government would appeal Hat­ter's decision to the 9th U. S. Circuit Court ofAppeals. 
"It's our intention to file appellate papers on this immediately, probab­ly no later than tomorrow," Trott said. 
If the appeal court reverses Hat­ter's decision, the indictment will be reinstated and the proceedings will resume, Trott said. 
One ofthe lawyers who defended Wayte, Mark Rosenbaum, said he was "pleasantly stunned" with the decision and believes if it is upheld on appeal, the draft registration sys­tem may no longer be valid in the United States. 
Asked what the decision meant, Rosenbaum replied, "it means the whole draft is out." 
Wayte, a former philosophy stu­dent at Yale University, said after the 
See DRAFT, page 5 
the book moles live. We have our friends in other dorms. Augusta is a place to come home to." 
Augusta is the smallest residence hall on campus. Before it became self-governing in 1976, it was a con­vent. 
65 students live in Augusta this year. Traditionally, Augusta resi­dents have been 21 year-old seniors, me -I think that is a good sign. I have faith in the maturity of the women at Saint Mary's," Rice said. 

Augusta's self-governing nature changes the role of the R.A. in the dorm, according to R.A. Roberts: "In order to be an R.A. at Augusta, you had to have been an R.A. (during 
See AUGUSTA, page 3 

r 
.I 
·~ews Brieis 
Hy The Ubsl!n•er and The Associated Prt•ss 
Prittcess Diana is suffering from anorexia nervosa, according to reports in three British tabloids. Buckingham Pa:tace, however, dismissed the stories as "absolute nonesense." The stories about Diana were provoked by an incident Saturday night, when she turned up late for an important war dead remembrance festival graced by Qu~n Elizabeth II, and by her refusal of both meat and fish at a public luncheon last week. No one is supposed to be late for any event attended by the queen. Prince Charles arrived alone for the festival at London's Royal Albert Hall and reportedly said, "My wife is not well." Fifteen minutes later, Diana arrived at a side entrance looking flustered. The Sun newspaper said the princess's "craze for slim.ning" was the cause of an argument between the couple that prevented them from arriving at the hall together. -AP 
Rodney Garrett, 43, ofEvansville, Ind., was sentenced to 40 years in prison yesterday for the murder ofCharles Grisham, 32, also ofEvansville. Garrett was sentenced in Vanderburgh Circuit Court after entering aguilty plea to the charges. Police said Grisham was killed in August after a fight at a woman's apartment. -AP 
Demolition expertsdefused a 12-pound time bomb. in a 26-story apartment house occupied mostly by Americans, after · some residents found the device in a basement garage, police said · yesterday. The 3,000 residents were evacuated after the device was discovered Sunday, a police spokesman in nearby Frankfurt said. Police called German demolition experts in to defuse the device.: The building houses many American civilians and soldiers based at a nearby U.S. Army base. No group claimed responsibility, but U.S. military targets around Frankfurt have been frequent targets ofWest German leftist terrorist gangs in recent months. -AP · 
' ' 
Pollee shot and killed three suspected btac~ nationalist guerrillas in two gunfights near the Swaziland border, a police spokesman said yesterday. He said the suspected guerrilla!! were killed Sunday as security squads hunted for members of a nationalist group suspected of wounding two policemen the pre: vious day In the area, near the town of Piet Retief. Police did riot identify the three men killed, beyond calling them "terrorists." Tha~ is the term the government uses for guerrillas of the outlawed African Natonal Congress, which has waged a sabotage campaign from neighboring countries to overthrow the white-minority South African government. -AP 
The Commerce Department apparently has failed to prevent the flow of American military technology to the Soviet Union, a Senate subcommittee says. In a 67-page report released Sunday, the permanent subcommittee on investigations recommended that the United States strengthen its intelligence and enforcement efforts to halt a "massive, well planned and well managed" Soviet effort to acquire U.S. technology. The subcommit­tee stopped short, however, ofadopting a staff recommendation that the department be stripped of its enforcement powers under the Export Administration Act. "The evidence is strong that virtually all the technology they obtain from the West is applied to the Soviet military industry," the panel said. The minority staffof the subcom­mittee, after a year-long investigation, recommended at the hearings that the Customs Service be given full responsibility for enforce­ment of export controls. The Commerce Department now has the rrimary responsibility, through its Compliance Division, with the Customs Service assigned a secondary role. "The evidence strongly suggests that the Commerce Department to date has been unable to enforce the EAA controls in the face of mounting Soviet efforts to secure sensitive American technology," the subcommittee's report said. In the meantime, said the subcommittee, "advanced American micro-electronics, laser, radar and precision manufacturing tech­nologies have been obtained by the Soviets and have enabled them to make giant strides in military strength at a minimum ofrisk, invest­ment and resources." The subcommittee is a panel of the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee. -AP 

Domittique Fernandez, a 53-year-otd author who writes stories about Italy, won the prestigious Prix Goncourt literary prize yesterday for his "Dans Ia Main de I'Ange" (In the Hand ofthe Angel), an imaginary biography ofltalian filmmaker Pier Paolo Pasolini. The pri t ze is awarded by a jury of major French authors. Fernandez, author of nine novels and numerous essays and travelogues, is a professor ofItalian literature in Rennes and the son ofnovelist Ramon Fernandez. -AP 
A sheriffs deputy shotand killed his mother's 28­year-old boyfriend in Los Angeles after the man allegedly fired at the lawman's mother and sister during a heated argument, authorities said yesterday. John Payton of Los Angeles died in surgery Sunday, 11 hours after he was shot by Deputy Eddy Gaddison, 22, said Deputy Ward Finch. Gaddison, who has been a deputy for a year, was assigned to the county's central jai~ finch said. Payton allegedly fired "several rounds" at Gaddison's mother, Ruth Gaddison, and sister, Sandra Gaddison, Finch said. -AP 
Cloudy and cool today, with a high around 50. Fair tonight and tomorrow and warmer. Low around 30 tonight and high tomorrow in the low 50s. -AP 
Tuesday, November 16, 1982-page 2 
N.D., Excellence: Mutually Exclusive? 
They are the heads ofcorporations, one is a governor, and one is the President of a well-known Catholic uni­versity in the Midwest. Twice a year they meet for a few days to hold discussions, hear proposals, eat food, and maybe make a few decisions. This year, they not only got to freeze, but they also got to see Penn State run around Notre Dame. 
These people are the trustees of Notre Dame. Who are they and what do they do? Well, they get their pictures on the wall at the Morris Inn. They get to dine on the mysterious 14th floor of the library. Beyond these obvious plums, not much is known about the duties ofa trustee. 
Supposedly the trustees are charged with planning the future course of the University. During marathon two-day sessions during the spring and fall these men and women are expected to be briefed on problems affecting this place, hear proposals for improvement, and then reach a consensus. 
This year, the trustees met in sub-committees on Thursday, and then gathered for a decision making pow-wow on Friday. According to Father Hesburgh, "the meetings went well, in fact this was one ofour best years." 
"Why were the meetings good?" Hesburgh was asked. 

Ryan Ver Berkmoes 
Managing Editor 
Inside Tuesday 

here? Every four years a fresh crop passes through; before they can become motivated to try to improve conditions, they are gone. 
Mediocrity pervades. When the quality ofthe library is questioned, a defense ofhow it has improved is given. This is true, but what is being done for further improve­ment? The recent gift of money will help. In a while, after still another batch has graduated, readers will be able to use computers to find the books that can never be found. The rest will go to the fine arts collection. This is all well and good, but where is the spirited push to achieve library greatness? 
The La Fortune Student Center is well known for its mediocrity. But wait! A nifty proposal to improve the facility may someday be acted upon. It was introduced 18 months ago, and has since been aging delicately 
on a burueacratic shelf. Ac­tually that is probably agood thing. The proposal is anoth­er of the bandaid ap­proaches taken to improve the building. 
Imagine this. A door from the courtyard to the huddle. Sound like social nirvana? You bet not. 
A few years ago, the big improvement was the pur­chase of those mod orange and purple chairs. 
Some have suggested dynamiting the facility. Well, this would not only make millions of roaches 

"Well I really can't com­ment on that," he said. 
When The Observer at­tempted to find out what did transpire, we met with little luck. One man was out of town, another didn't know much, and another hoped to get something out later this week. 
Now I doubt the trustees voted to liquidate the Uni­versity and invest the funds in a Swiss slush fund ac­count, so why the secrecy? And why not strive for greater student and faculty input into the sessions? 

Lloyd Burke <1annot be ex­pected to carry the load ofstudent opinion to the trus­tees. Yet that is what happened. The trustees' Student Affairs Committee was hit with the much-heralded Mur­day Report. 
The report was prepared by psychology experts and details the problems of social life at Notre Dame. The trustees said, "how nice." They then told Burke to in­vestigate a number of proposals, including: University Club memberships for seniors, and an 'Oakroom-type' restraunt in the North Dining Hall. They also asked Burke to investigate the possibilities for using Washing­ton Hall for more student functions. 
There, in addition to going to classes and running stu­dent governent, Lloyd Burke is supposed to be the fact finder for the Trustees. By the time the spring meeting rolls around, Burke will be ready to graduate and leave Notre Dame for good. The Murday Report was begun under the auspices of Burke's predecessor. He is not here to follow up on it, or even to dust it off periodical­ly. 
Of course, why should things be improved around 

homeless, but would also destroy a building that would cost millions to replace. A far better idea would be to allow the ready and willing architecture department to design a comprehensiv,.e renovation. But there is no word that this was dicussed by the trustees. Who knows, maybe the next renovation will involve new curtains. 
The selection ofdesign for the faculty office building is another example of mediocrity in action. When ques­tioned about the philosophy behind the new building, the official response was, "We don't want anything great, just a building that will do the job." Why not great? Why shouldn't the new faculty building that is being designed from scratch be innovative? 
Notre Dame has its good points, otherwise only fools would attend. But if we love the place, then we should strive not for goodness, but for greatness. Father Hes­burgh wants the school to become "The Harvard ofthe Midwest." For this to happen, it will have to be translated into action, from the top down. 

The Observer 
Design Editor .............................. Tim Neely Design Assistants ........................ Laura Puk Troy Illig Typesetter ................................ Tari Brown Mark Miano News Editor.......................... Dave Dziedzic Copy Editor ........................... Diane Dirkers B & T Layout... .. Ed "Hideous Behemoth" Konrady Editorials La)'out ............... Ken Cerabona Sports Copy Editor................... Tari Brown Typist ...........................................Chris Perry 
Tari again ND Day Editor............................ Dave again SMC Da)• Editor ........ Tari again and again Ad Design ................................jeannie Euch Photographer.......................... Paul Cifarelli Guest Appearances..................... Ed's mom 
A Renaissance Man, The orie and only 
Frank LaGrona, Our boy LaCroix, Margo 
Moo Miker, Fosl ver Monker, Skippy da 
Gardiner 
The Observer fUSPS 598 9201 IS published Monday through Fr~day and on home tootball Saturd.;ys except dur~ng exa•n and vacatron per~ods The Observer •s publiShed by the students of Notre Da'11e and Sa1nt Marys Col· lege Subscr~pt1ons may be purchased lor $25 per year tSt5 per seme~ter) by wr1t1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer •s a ·ne·noer ol The Associated Press All reproauct1on r~ghts are reserved 
Second class p0stage pa•a at Notre Dame 1na1ana 46556 




CORBY'S: 

Dollar Days •
•
• 
•• • Tues. ffiOLSON • •• • Sl.OO • 
•• Wed. ffi1CHEL08 • ••
•
• Sl.OO • 

!•GO IRISH, BEAT AIR FORCE : • 
..............................: 

The Observer Tuesday, November 16, 1982-page 3 

Augusta Hall, Saint Mary's only self-governing dorm, provides its 65 residents with a freer, 
Alutnni Association jobprogratn changes 
By CAROL CAMP affected the program last year indi-
SeniorStaffReporter cate the importance ofstudent input 
in reshaping the program's time 
Student evaluation of the Alumni schedule.. 

Association's Summer Job Place­Rather than waiting until after 
ment program has resulted in Christmas break to contact alumni 
numerous changes of its time clubs about the possibility of stu­
schedule, according to Alumni As­dent employment, the Alumni As­
sociation Assistant Director Tim sociation sent letters detailing the 
Truesdell. program to the 165 alumni clubs in 
The Summer Job Placement late October. 
program was created by the Alumni Through this initial contact with 
Association last year to "act as a con­the clubs, the Alumni Association 
duit for students to contact alumni hopes to encourage alumni club 
who may be able to assist them in presidents to hold get-togethers 
seeking employment," Truesdell during Christmas break so that stu­
said. dents can meet potential employers. 
"Basically, when students have an The Alumni Association made ap­
inquiry about job opportunities in a plications available to students last 
particular city, we put them in con­week. The deadline for the com­
tact with that city's alumni club pleted forms is this Friday. These ap­
president. The club president then is plications then will be forwarded to 
charged with the responsibility of the respective alumni club presi­
putting students in contact with dents in hope that "the personal 
those who may be able to help." touch will enhance the program," 
Truesdell said the problems that said Truesdell. 
These changes in the program's time frame were made due to "student dissatisfaction with the 
. Augusta 
lack of contact between themselves and the alumni clubs." However, 

trust you, you're more prone to fol­noise. I feel like the women in the Truesdell feels that the program's low rules as a way ofproving you're hall are my sisters," she said. success is based upon the student's worthy of being trusted," ·she ex­Barret explained that her perseverance, as well as the ability of plained. boyfriend "feels much more at ease the club presidents to interact with 
Jean Georgas, Barret's roommate, here knowing no one's keeping students. also sees Augusta as being the next track of his every move. I'm almost 
Although the Alumni Association best thing to living off-campus. 22 years old and I'm keeping track of willingly offers this service to stu­"You have all the conveniences of my life. dents, both Truesdell and Alumni being on campus. But the atmos­"It's nice that Saint Mary's ...can Association Director Chuck Lennon phere is private. Your room is more feel confident in allowing me the op­stress that the program cannot your own room here. There are 25 portunity to make decisions without provide students with "a guaranteed women on this floor. That's nearly feeling they have to supervise me. I job, but at least it can give them halfthe number ofwomen on a floor admire Saint Mary's for allowing proper contact, and we hope some­
in Regina. The less women, the less Augusta to exist," she said. thing will come out ofit." 
Student Senate 
Trustees highlightagenf!,a 
ByAMY STEPHAN the space we've got and try to put that this rotation task form will be News Staff together more programs." effective. Burke noted that the upcoming Burke also hopes that the new 
The Board ofTrustees' reaction to release ofthe P.A.C.E. (Priorities and committee system will help to clear­student social space concerns and Commitment to Excellence) report ly define the duties of senate mem­the restru_cturing of Student Senate and other information might have bers, at a time when the committees were the main topics some impact on this issue. effectiveness of the present senate discussed at last night's Student Burke also reported that alcohol system is being questioned Senate meeting. abuse among students and the im­
Student Body President Lloyd provement of student-faculty Burke, who gave a presentation to relationships were discussed at-the the trustees at their semi-annual Board meeting. 
• • . Talks 

meeting this weekend, reported to A proposal concerning a change the senators that "the meeting was in the committee structure of the not extremely creative." Student Senate was discussed at the continuedfrom page 1 
"We are still a lobbying group and senate meeting. are perceived as that," he said. Al­In this new structure, each "Human rights, arms reductions, though the trustees discussed the elected senator would chair one of peaceful solutions to regional lack of student social space, Burke five standingcommittees. No special problems -in short, peace and says that few new ideas were interests would be covered by freedom for all nations -are the generated. specific committees. Instead, com­goals we seek," Bush said. 
Some proposals have been made mittees would handle ideas on a by students in an attempt to improve rotation basis. Also attending the session were the situation. These include the use Since student senators are not Secretary of State George P. Shultz, of commercial facilities for social elected on the basis of expertise in U.S. Ambassador to Moscow Arthur events on a short-term basis until any particular area, Burke feels that A. Hartman, Soviet Foreign Minister new facilities can be built, and the assigning the issues to each different Andrei A. Gromyko and Andrei M. use of the North Dining Hall base­committee would allow for more Alexandrov, a long-time Brezhnev ment, according to Burke. ideas and solutions. Thus, each foreign-policy aide. 
The position ofthe Board, accord­senator would have.a chance to deal ing to Burke, is that "we (the with every issue as it is assigned to Neither Bush nor Tass disclosed students) should make more use of his/her committee. Burke predicts details of the talks. 
AUTHENTIC MEXICAN FOOD 



ELMATADOR 
MEXICAN RESTAURANT IN SOUTH BEND 2120 W. WESTERN AVE. 


2~-~oo•·······················•
Hours: I FREK FANTASTIC VALUE FREE 1 T ues, Wed, ~ Buy One Dinner at Reg. Price ~ Thurs 11·9 ~-EL MATADOR Get Second Dinner EL MATADOR ~ 
g2120W. WESTERN FREE 2120W. WESTERN s
Fri, Sat 

u SOUTH BEND SOUTH BEND u 11-11 
•• EXPIRES11·25·82 DINE-INORCARRY-OUT NO LIMIT II lr~~~~~~~ THIS COUPON NOT GOOD WITH ANY OTHER SPECIAL ~ 
•.....•.................• 
continuedfrom page 1 
one's) junior year. Also, I don't have a residence director or a hall staff. That's my (job) and the hall coun­cil's job. If something goes wrong, residents take care of it themselves, "~:Viihout the assistance ofa hall direc­tor. Maintainance requests go through me." 
"In terms of college policy, we (the RA and the hall council) en­force rules on our own. My job is to keep them aware of campus events and career planning. I'm the link with the Residence Life office," she said. 
Roberts said she chose to live in Augusta because, "After two years in Holy Cross and one in Regina, I was ready for a little peace and quiet. That's one of the reasons people move here; it's warm, small. and 
homey." Augusta residents say life in the dorm is similar to living off-campus. 
"The average person here wants to be out of the mainstream of school. Most of our friends live off­campus. The general idea is that people in Augusta totally dislike Saint Mary's campus. That's not true for most of us. If it weren't for some attachment, we'd be off-campus," Clark said. 
Chris Lenyo, a junior living in Augusta, said that life in Augusta is similar to off-campus living. She noted the convenience ofhaving the dining hall close by. 
Loretta Barret, enjoys the in­dependence of living in Augusta. "Without a front desk, you feel more independent, more responsible. When they (the administration) 

Reaga~Kohlconcur to oppose 'machine~ 
WASHINGTON (AP)-As Leonid past trends in Soviet succession, rhe 
Brezhnev was buried in Red Square, official said. 
President Reagan said yesterday that Expressing hopes for improved 
the United States and its Western relations with the Soviets, Reagan 
allies must stand together against a and Kohl said they were "ready to 
"massive war machine" built by the conduct relations with the new 
Soviet Union. leadership in Moscow with the aim 
Welcoming West German Chan­ofextending areas ofcooperation to 
cellor Helmut Kohl to the White their mutual benefit if Soviet con­
House, Reagan made no mention of duct makes that possible." 
the Soviet president's funeral and Their statement said the military 
did not soften his frequently voiced crackdown in Poland "continued to 
criticism of the Kremlin's military cause great concern" and that the 
policies. presnce ofSoviet troops in Afghanis­
In a joint statement after their tan was "a strain on international 
two-hour meeting, Kohl expressed relations." 
appreciation that Reagan lifted the Reagan and Kohl opposed calls for 
Soviet pipeline sanctions that had cutbacks in the number ofAmerican 
caused deep strains in U.S. relations troops in Europe. The statement said 
with allies in Europe. a unilateral reduction "would have a 
A senior U.S. official, briefing destabilizing effect and, at the same 
reporters afterward, did not directly time, would undermine efforts for 
respond when asked if the two negotiated force reductions" in the 
leaders discussed France's dis­East. 
avowal ofan East-West trade accord In an apparent message to the 
that Reagan said made it possible for peace movements in both countries 
him to drop the sanctions. urging an end to the arms race, they 
"The essence of the discussion said the Atlantic Alliance "does not 
was an agreement that the West threaten anyone" and that "none of 
would profit from much greater the weapons ofthe Alliance will ever 
coordination on economic relations be used except in response to at­
with the East," said the official, who tack." 
asked to remain anonymous. He said 
the pipeline was not a major topic in Standing alongside each other on 
the talks. a windy and chilly South Lawn, 
The subject of East-West relations Reagan and Kohl traded pledges of 
dominated most of their meeting. friendship between their two 
the official said. "I can't think of an countries. 
issue on which the two gentlemen 
disagreed," the official said. Repeating a~~urances he made 
The president and the chJncellor during his European trip earlier this 
discussed the change in leadership year, Reagan said: "You are nor: 
in Moscow from the viewpoint of alone. We are with you." 

The Observer Tuesday, November 16, 1982 -page 4 
World hunger 
Gilligan discusses solutions 

By DENA MARINO 
News Staff 

In a society in which diet books head the bestseller lists, it is almost impossible for us to realize what it means to be hungry. This was the main point of discussion for former Ohio GovernorJohn Gilligan yester­day in a talk which commenced World Hunger Awareness Week for the World Hunger Coalition. 

"Hunger," Gilligan emphasized, "is being on a diet so deficient in caloric ii:ltake that the result is irre­versible mental and physical damage. It is a real deprivation to the point that it twists human life." Gil­ligan estimated that nearly a quarter ofthe world's 4.3 billion people live in constant hunger. 
Gilligan sees a solution to the world hunger problem in a basic reworking of traditional economic 
'~·-and political stuctures both within underdeveloped nations and within the family of Third World nations. According to Gilligan, current ef­forts to alleviate world hunger by sending food and money are not economically practical. "You really can't sustain a population on food grown in America. It's just too ex­pensive," he said. 
"The answer is to help the Third World countries develop their own food resources," he said. "That means a transfer of technology and money." Currently, the federal government spends an allotted one­fifth of 1 percent of the federal 
Hovv to civilize 7a.m. 
'l 
·· ..···-. 
.• •-'· .­
.. 
-. 
.,,• ... 

budget on aid to underdeveloped World, the C.S. currently ranks 15th nations. Gilligan estimates that "we in its percentage of resources spent could double, triple, or quadruple on the problem. federal aid and no one would ever According to Gilligan, the first notice it." step to increase the united State's 
Of the 16 nations which have role in alleviating world hunger i!; to programs to aid the transfer of tech­make the American people aware of nology and resources to the Third the size of the problem. 
.Burial 
continuedfrom page 1 
)lie presidency, the second posi­tion held by Brezhnev, has not yet been filled. Most analysts expect it to go not to Andropov but to anoth­er senior member ofthe ruling Polit­buro, thereby opening an era of collective leadership. 
Besides Bush and U.S. Secretary of State George P. Shultz, other foreign dignitaries at the Red Square funeral included Prime Minister Indira Gandhi of India, Foreign Minister Huang Hua of China, Poland's martial-law ruler Wojciech Jaruzelski, Cuban President Fidel Castro, Japanese Prime Minister Zenko Suzuki, Canadian Prime Min­ister Pierre Elliot Trudeau, Afghan leader Babrak Karma! and Pakistani President Zia ul-Haq. 
Afterward they met briefly with Andropov at a Kremlin reception, and later the new general secretary and Bush held a 30-minute ex­change on key questions of Soviet­American relations. 

The funeral, climaxing four days of national mourning, was watched live on television by millions of Soviets, a telecast that also was beamed to Europe and the United States. 
Artcritic to lecture atSnite 

ByJOHN BURCHETT 
News Staff 
Robert Hughes, the art critic for Time magazine, will give a slide lecture entitled "Art, Politics, and Propaganda" in the Annenburg Auditorium of the Snite Museum at 
7:30 tonight. 
The lecture is the third segment of a five-part political series sponsored by the Student Union Academic Commission. The series examines public impression made through visual media. 
Robert Hughes has been the art critic for Time since 1970, and has written numerous books about art, including Heaven and Hell in Wes­tern Art and The Art ofAustralia. He also has made more than 30 documentary films on this topic for television, including Shock of the NewO, a BBC production which was awarded the 1980-81 Frank Jewett Rather award for distinction in art criticism. 
"My job is simply to try to show ­and this is the essence of all criticism, in an apprehensive way. to people who are not experts -why this sort of stuff might matter in the life of their minds; whether it might have something to tell them," said Hughes. 
.Arrest 

continuedfrom page 1 
After questioning the suspect, Security transported the suspect to the County Sheriffs office where he was booked and later released on SIOO bond. 
Neither student was hurt in the 

incident, according to the report, al­
though one was treated for bruises 
at the infirmary. 
One student who witnessed the incident said it appeared that the the victim and the suspect both tripped. The victim got up and ran to LeMans with her companion. The suspect was on the ground for a short time before he got up and crouched be­hind a car. 
The witness also notified security. 
There were conflicting reports 

concerning whether it was the vic­
tims or the security department that 
agreed to press charges. 
The victims were unavailable for 

comment. 
According to the SMC Public Rela­

tions office, the incident was not 
related to the Nov. 5 assault at Saint 
Mary's.


~-~­

Tuesday, November 16, 1982-page 5 
The Observer 


Vows allegiance 
Walesa urges peaceful action 
anything out. I am for peaceful solu­road and the ideas which we set Walesa renewed his allegiance to tions." forth in August." 
the independent labor movement He displayed even more caution Yesterday afternoon, after the yesterday but took a cautious line when asked to define his stand on shifts changed at the Lenin Shipyard toward the martial-Jaw government the new trade unions under Com­where Solidarity was born, about and urged his supporters to confine munist Party control, envisioned by 2,000 people assembled outside 
themselves to peaceful action. the Oct. 8 law that also banned Walesa's drab apartment building, 
He also said he needed at least a Solidarity. shouting for him to appear. They 
month to get acquainted with the Even the Solidarity statutes ~had were dispersed by a bodyguard who 
situation in Poland and decide his spoken ofunion "pluralism," he said, said: "You'd better go. Standing 
future course ofaction. adding, "You can join one trade un­here, you do harm to him." 
"I was, I am and I will be faithful to ion, you can join another, and you Walesa had put on weight during 
the spirit of August," said Walesa, are free to join or not to join." his 11 months of forced inactivity 
referring to the August 1980 agree­Walesa said he would "do every­and was hoarse but relaxed at the 
ment that launched the Solidarity thing" he could to effect the release news conference, held in his living 
labor federation. by "peaceful. means" of Solidarity room with portraits of himself and 
"I will not depart from the letter supporters still in detention. But he Pope John Paul II on the walls. He 
of that agreement," he told his first pleaded for time, saying: still wore his familiar walrus mus­
news conference since his release af­"I must think about the situation tache. 
ter 11 months of detention. But he because I don't know the exis~ing The Communist government said 
added, in a vein reminiscent of his GDANSK, Poland (AP) -Lech 
situation now. Give me at least one it released Walesa after he offered to moderating influence 011 the union month." meet with government leaders for before his arrest, "As you know, I 
He spoke more forcefully the "serious discussions on problems of 
never wanted to destroy or knock night before on his arrival in Gdansk. mutual interest." He indicated he 
"We have to reach agreement, but took a forceful line in the interview 
not on our knees," he told a cheering with Interior Minister Czeslaw 
crowd of 500 outside his apartment Kiszczak that preceded his release, 
house. "I will be faithful and there is saying, "They were man-to-man 
no force that can divide us. I want talks, and I thought the result would 
everything to go the way we es­be prison. But on the: next day, l was
celebration tablished it. I will not abandon the surprised to be told that I was free." 


Pittsburgh 



proves costly 
By CATHYPAX 
StaffReporter 

The celebration that greeted the returning Notre Dame football team after its Nov. 6 victory over Pitts­burgh resulted in .$827 worth of damage to the team's busses, accord­
ing  to  Dean  of  Students  James  
Roemer.  
The  details  of the  damage  are  

presently unknown, but Roemer speculates that the sheet metal on t~ top and sides ofthe bus may have been dented when students climbed atop the vehicles. 
Roc:mer is uncertain about who will pay for the damage, but feels. that the University community is obliged to be courteous to the Transpo Bus Company. He has sent a letter to Student Body President Uoyd Burke asking who should take the responsibility of paying for repairs. 
Burke, however, claims that he has not received Roemer's letter yet and is unaware ofthe damage. 
Roemer says that he realizes it seems unjust for the entire student body to pay for the. criminal actions of a few, but adds that. each student bears a social responsibility for the actions of the entire student body. 
. . . Draft 
continuedfrom page 1 

decision: "I am very happy right now because the judge has dismissed the case ... I think this is a big victory for us." 
Defense attorneys had claimed that Wayte had been singled out for· prosecution because of his out· spoken views against the U. S. Selective Service system. 
In order to prove that theory, the defense had sought White House and Selective Service documents and wanted Meese to testify. However, government prosecutors, asserting the right of executive privilege, refused to turn over the documents and permit Meese' tes­timony. 
Rosenbaum predicted that if the decision is upheld by the appellate court, the cases of four other con· victed draft resisters will be dis­missed. 
Wayte was indicted in June on charges of failing to register for the draft, two years after writing then­President Carter and the Selective Service that he would not register. 


ThisDeskCanBeachMach2. 
Some desk jobs are making authority. more exciting than In the air, and on the · others. ground, you have 
As a Navy· pilot management responsi­or flight officer, your . bility from the begin­desk can be a sophis­ning. And your · ticated combination responsibility grows of supersonic jet air­as you gainexperience. craft and advanced electronic equipment. No company can give you this kind of But you can handle it. Because Navy leadership responsibility this fast. And flight training gives you the navigation, nothing beats the sheer excitement of aerodynamics and other technical Navy flying. know-how you need. The salary is exciting, too. Right 
In return, Navy aviation demands away, you'll earn about $18,000 a year. something of you as an officer: That's better than the average corpora­Leadership. tion will pay you just outofcollege . 
Your path to leadership starts with And with regular Navy promotions and officer training that's among the most other pay increases, your annual demanding in the military. It's intensive salary will soar to $30,400 after four leadership and professional schooling years. That's on top of a full package combined with rigorous Navy flight of benefits and privileges. training. And it's all geared to prepare Before you settle down to an earth­you and other college bound desk job, reach 
r~;;-0;;0-;;:~;;----W-;6,
graduates for the for the sky. Reach for 
I 
INFORMATION CENTER I
unique challenge of P.O. Box 5000, Clifton, NJ 07015 . the coupon. Find out 
Navy aviation. The I CJ Please send me more information about becom-I what it takes to be 
ing a member of the Naval AviationTeam: (0AI ·program is tough but part of the Naval 
I ~arne I 
First tPiease Print 1 Last
rewarding. Aviation Tham. You
I Address Apt. "'----1
One important could have a desk 
.I. I
City State Zip
reward. for Navy that flies at twice the 
I Age___tColfege/IJniversity I
officers is decision-speed of sound. 
*Year in College •GPA·--~--­
1.&Major/Minor I 
I Pl\on<' Number·.,---,:-.,;-·.,---,_...--;;,.......,=--.,-,-
t 
IArra Cod•• Best Time to Call This ~s for gton.eral rPCrvitm«!nt informai.ion. You do f'lOt ha\'eo w. II 
furnish any of the information rpquested. Of cou'r5e. the more we 
know. the more we can help to determine the kinds of ~8\'Y posi·
L 
tions for "'=hich ."·ou qualify. · J 
NavyOfficers GetBesponsibilltyFast. 

~ 
f 
t 
I 
t 
I I 
l 

Business & TechnologyTuesday,November16,1982-page6 
Science Update 
Two Soviet cosmonautshave broken the 185-day space endurance record set by two of their countrymen in 1980, Radio Moscow reported. The two men, Anatoly Berezovoy and Valentin Lebedev, broke the record Sunday aboard the Salyut-7 space station, where they have been performing experiments. They were were in their 186th day in space and were expected to con­tinue their work aboard the space laboratory for several more weeks. The previous endurance record was established by cos­monauts Leonid Popov and Valery Ryumin, who returned to Earth Oct. 11, 1980, after 185 days in orbit on the Salyut-6 space station. The longest U.S. space flight was 84 days in 1974 by astronauts Gerald Carr, Edward Gibson and William Pogue aboard the Skylab space station. The United States is committed to the Columbia program, using the same shuttle for repeated space trips. The Columbia shuttle is orbiting Earth in a five-day mission to end today. 
-AP 


EconomicUpdate 
Dillon Companies Inc., a Kansas-based grocery, convenience and department store chain, has agreed to merge with the Kroger Co. of Cincinnati. Dillon Chairman Ray Dillon Jr. said yesterday his company had accepted a merger proposal from Kroger, the country's second-largest supermarket chain. Kroger received an option to purchase up to 3.57 million shares of Dillon stock at the equivalent of 538 per share in cash or securities. Dillon and one or two other company officers will join Kroger's board of directors. Dillon, based in Hutchinson, Kan., operates supermarkets, convenience stores. junior department stores and related facilities primarily in Colorado, Arizona, California and Kansas. Dillon had sales of $2.8 billion in fiscal 1982 with net earnings of 550 million. 
-AP 


all Street Update 
Stock prices suffered their largest loss in three weeks yesterday amid some new doubts about the interest-rate out­look. Rates rose in the bond and short-term money markets, partly in response to money-supply statistics issued late in the day by the Federal Reserve. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials tumbled 
18.49 to 1,021.43, its biggest decline since it took a near-record drop of 36.33 points on October 25. Volume on the New York Stock Exchange totaled 78.90 million shares, down from 95.08 million in the previous session. On Friday the DowJones industrial average fell 
14.81 to 1 ,039.92, finishing the week with a net loss of 11.86 points. Declines outnumbered advances by nearly four to one on the Big Board, and the exchange's composite index fell 1.38 to 79.32. Nationwide turnover in NYSE-listed issues, including trades in those stocks on regional exchanges and in the over-the-counter market, totaled 91.80 million shares. Standard & poor's index of 400 in­dustrials dropped 2.97 to 152.35, and S&P's 500-stock composite index was down 2.50 at 137.03. At the American Stock Exchange, the market value index lost 5.44 to 334.46. The NASDAQ composite index for the over-the-counter market closed at 229.34, down 3.27. 
-AP 




• eut lt1JOUrwag",.orelae! 
~~d. ~note~ _
·~L . l
I. 

~--. 1c1·l . .a11 ~~~ ·· 

~~tBinr__ --·-. 
. -~-AIB/s'!•r.,s
j ' 10 e~~tc -_
!001~ ~ \ ~ ~~...-­


-G~-(R~d \~~~~z~/_ • 
. \tfle\ fOp~ I .--~ ~ 
\d'. \_! 
ft!. \$\ _}~, .\ For

rlln~_g s ­
I 



~ ..,rili':~ 
No appointment I Open 7days 
daily 9 -8 Sat. 9 -6 Sun 11 -5 Grape Road Plaza Grape and Day Roads 277-7946

@REDI<EN 
Hair must be shampooed day of cut 
NEW YORK (AP)-Researchers 
said yesterday they have discovered 
genetic material that can rearrange 
itself without the help ofenzymes, a 
much simpler process than scien­
tists had thought possible. 
"The discovery is so novel that 
one doesn't know the full implica­
tions, but it will certainly change the 
way we discuss things," said Phillip 
Sharp, a biologist at the Massachu­
setts Institute ofTechnology. 
The researchers at the University 
of Colorado in Boulder, led by the 
biochemist Thomas Cech, found 
what they call '.'self-splicing RNA" in 
a singlecelled animal called 
Tetrahymena that lives in ponds. 
Ribonucleic acid, one of the com­
plex chemicals that carries genetic 
information, is normally cut, rear­
ranged and spliced together by 
enzymes, proteins made for that 
purpose. 

The research will be published 
today in the journal Cell. 
The discovery ofself-splicing RNA 
has attracted the attention of 
biologists interested in evolution, 
Cech said, because it is a very simple 
process that could have operated in 
even the most primitive organisms. 
In higher animals, genes made up 
ofDNA 8 deoxyribonucleic acid car­
ry a code that directs the pruction of 
RNA. The RNA is spliced by 
enzymes, and then it, in turn, directs 
the formation of the thousands of 
proteins that make up living cells. 
The discovery that RNA was rear­
ranged and spliced was made in the 
mid-1970s. Scientists do not know 
for certain why splicing occurs or 
exactly what its function is. "It could 
be part ofsome central process that 
we don't know," said Sharp. 
Cech was trying to understand 
that process when he stumbled on 
the self-splicing RNA. In trying to 
Cold winter 
predicted 

this year 
Some meteorologists are predict­
ing that much ofNorth America is in 
for a cold winter this year. Among 
their reasons: colder water than nor­
mal in the Pacific Ocean, and 
changes in sunspot activity, which 
some experts believe affects 
weather. 

Even so, Reid Bryson, a professor 
of meteorology at the University of 
Wisconsin, shocked some col­
leagues by predicting in September 
that temperatures in the northern 
United States this winter will 
average between 4 and 6 degrees 
Fahrenheit below normal. 
That great drop could have chill­
ing economic effects; a reduction of 
only 3 degrees below normal is or­
dinarily enough to produce an old­
fashioned winter. 
Bryson bases his prediction on a 
statistical study he has made that 
relates volcanic activity to tem­
perature changes in the Northern 
Hemisphere. 

While many scientists believe that 
ash and other small particles ejected 
into the upper atmosphere by vol­
canic eruptions block enough sun­
light to cool the earth's climate, 
Bryson is more specific than most. 
He contends that the records of 
some 7,000 volcanic eruptions tally 
very closely with drops in tem­
perature. 

This has been a big year for vol­
canoes, Bryson says. By September, 
22 eruptions had occurred, includ­
ing the awesome explosions of 
Mexico's El Chichon and Indonesia's 
Galunggung. The combined output 
ofall this volcanism, he believes, will 
result in a winter ofunusual severity. 
Without enzymes 




Self-splicing RNA found 

determine what enzyme spliced a partic11lar strand of RNA in Tetrahymena, he purified the RNA hoping to indicate a bit of the enzyme attached to it. After the purification, there was no enzyme present. 
"The circumstantial evidence (of self-splicing) became overwhelm­ing," Cech said in a telephone inter­view. "But that kind of negative evidence is very weak." 
To prove the occurrence of self­splicing, Cech isolated the RNA and attempted to see whether splicing would occur outside the cell. It did. 

I-ff" fr..,nrl th~r a ~imzk segment in the middle of the RNA was clipped out and the two remaining pieces were spliced together. The part clipped out -referred to as an intervening sequence -seemed to be responsible for the cutting and splicing, Cech said. 
Once that piece is clippe.d out, Cech said, "it sort of attacks itself," and is quickly destroyed. The reason, he speculated, is that if it remained in the cell it might be dan­gerous to the cell, splicing other pieces ofRNA and interrupting their function. 
Nan Davis, a 22-year-old, has been a paraplegic since an automobile accident on the night ofher high school graduation four years ago, and is now a student at Wright State University. During a demonstration atthe school, Davis stood with theaidofa microprocessor-controlled movement system and took five steps, herfirst since the accident. ( AP Photo) 
Ne"W bill needed for tax revenue 
By TOM PACE 
News Staff 
Taxes will rise again, according to Robert Hanson, the National Direc­tor ofTax Practices for the account­ing firm ofArthur Young. 
Hanson addressed the issue ofTax 
Trends  and  Reagonomics  last  
Thursday  in  the  Boardroom of  
Hayes-Healy.  

Hanson cited the decrease in infla­tion as one of the positive results of the President's economic program, but he believes increasing un­employment and a recent recession necessitate the current Tax Revenue Bill. Whether the bill will generate the amount of revenue needed seems to be somewhat questionable in ~anson's eyes. 
"I think the people that predicted 580 billion in revenue from the cur­rent bill were smoking pot when they made that prediction," stated Hanson. 
Hanson continued to say that there have been predictions for a budget deficit of 5250 billion for the fiscal year 1984. "I think this says that Congress and the President are going to have to look very hard at a new tax revenue bill." 
Presently, the Gas and Oil In­dustries relinquish fifty-one percent of their earnings to taxes, and that percentage is twice that ofany other industry, according to Hanson. Al­though he did not name any par­
ticular  group  that  would  be  
burdened  with  this  second  Tax  
Revenue  Bill,  Hanson  did  say,  

"there's going to be another tax in­crease, and all ofus are going to have to pay." 
Hanson concluded his remarks on the President's policies by saying, "the Reaganomics people want to wait longer to get feedback before they abandon the system, but the others can't wait anymore." 
Also a part of Hanson's address, were some remarks about the accounting profession as it stands today. Accounting is no longer the behind-the-desk profession that it once was. CPA's now actively solicit business. It's a blood-thirsty field,"said Hanson. "There's no such thing as ethics in public accounting anymore. That's the truth!" 
.. 


Editorials 
Tuesday, November 16, 1982 -page 7 
Social Security demands moral commitment 
The camera focuses in on an elderly woman, knitting on a couch with various pictures of loved ones resting behind her on the window sill. Her face glows with peace and serenity. A narrator's voice creeps into this scene, explaining that one of the reasons 
Thomas Melsheimer 
Guest Columnist 
__;-. 

this woman looks so content is because of healthy social security benefits. Benefits, he quickly adds, that Sen. Edward Kennedy has helped protect from the ravenous appetites of the Republicans. Such was the general sub­stance of an advertisement that ran through­out Massachusetts in the closing days of Kennedy's campaign for re-election. 
Kennedy won handily in Massachusetts, and his ability to portray himselfas a defender ofthe aged and Social Security played no small part in his success. While I have long been an admirer of Kennedy, I find myself both an­gered and disappointed at the politicization and demagoguery that he and many of his fel­low Democrats employed in attempting to make the future ofthe Social Security system a partisan election issue. 
Many Democrats attempted to depict the Republicans in general, and President Reagan in particular, as somehow trying to steal Social Security benefits from the elderly. Exit polls indicated that, in many House races, the tactic payed off. Yet the Democrats themselves have offered no substantive proposals for turning the Social Security system off its projected course ofdisaster. 
The issue of saving the Social Security sys­tem must rise above the currents of partisan politics. Few politicians of either party have had the courage to deal with a problem that has been apparent_ for years. The problems of the SS system are simple. The solutions are most complex. With more and more retirees 
• flooding into the system and fewer and fewer workers paying into the fund, the system can­not remain viable indefinitely. Already, Congress has been forced to authorize borrowing over a billion dollars on the 50 year old trust fund to cover monthly benefits for current retirees. The problem of the worker to retiree ratio will continue to get worse in upcoming years. When the program began operation in 1935, there were over 20 workers paying into the system for each retiree. That ratio has declined to about 3 workers for every retiree and in the next thirty years some analysts predict a further worsening of that ratio to about 2 to 1. The present payroll tax will be unable to attempt to meet the need for future benefits. 
To put it simply, at its present rate, the sys­tem cannot avoid bankruptcy. It would be more than just a bankruptcy ofa huge govern­ment program; it would be a bankruptcy of a moral commitment that the American people made long ago to the senior citizens of this country -a committment which promised the elderly freedom from fear of undue finan­cial hardship. 

Many possible solutions have been sug­gested by some brave politicians, but little action has been taken. Increasing the payroll tax is popular among some_ ~it?er!lls, yet the_in­creases required· to maintain present benefits would involve doubling, or even tripling the present tax. Cutting present benefits is anoth­er occasionally whispered alternative, but it is arguable that the present benefits do not realistically permit any "trimming" as they are hardly extravagant. 
Between these two extremes lies a variety ofsmaller measures which, if adopted in con­cert, could ease the system back into a posi­tion of solvency and stability. One such measure would involve taxing the SS benefits of retirees whose fixed income from other sources already gives them a decent standard ofliving. Another step would involve tying the rate ofincrease in benefits to something other than the Consumer Price Index. 
Present benefits automatically go up with annual increases in the CPl. But there is some measure of truth to the idea that the CPI is an inaccurate measure ofthe true costs borne by the elderly, as it includes items such as the cost of new homes and new automobiles. A new index could be created that would ac­curately reflect the needs of retirees without committing the system to possible unneces­sary increases. 
Finally, the integration of federal employees into SS would provide a small but important increase in potential revenues. A catalogue offurther proposals could be listed but these three should indicate that while the problem is acute, it is not insoluble. 
In the wake of election gains in the House, Tip O'Neill and the Democrats have pledged to begin their attempt to save Social Security from ruin. President Reagan has often seemed uncompassionate about the issue, but his sup­port of a measure to increase the retirement age to 68 was at least a small step toward bolstering the system. The onus rests with the Democrats, led by people like Kennedy, to turn their rhetoric into reality. 
Of course, no solution will be completely popular. Politicians will have to sacrifice votes and the support of some interest groups to save the government's largest program from insolvency. It is important for the American public not to be duped into believing that anyone who supports changes in the SS sys­tem is somehow unconcerned about the el­derly. 
Rational debate cannot take place in a context ofaccusation and hyperbole. No mat­ter what slick campaign ads may have sug­gested, the most uncompassionate thing a politician can do for his elderly constituents is 
nothing. 

Is a nuclear pacifism emerging? 
Notre Dame, Ind. -What counts, in politics as in life, is less the immediate, here­and-now mood than the deep groundswells that set the frame for the long-range future. 
The post-election assessments have not neglected the heavy favorable vote for the 

Max Lerner 

Off and On 
nuclear freeze initiative. But because they failed to ask what the psychological sources of the vote were, they fail to get at its real impor­tance. 
The immediate sources are dear -the high military budget, the militant statements by President Reagan and Defense Secretary Weinberger, the debates over the neutron bomb, cruise missile and MX deployment, the neo-liberal reawakening in Congress and the media. But there are deeper sources that have less to do with moods in politics than with changes in the structure and symbols of thinking. I write this from Notre Dame Univer­sity where students in a Core Course program have been reading Jonathan Schell's The Fate ofthe Earth and analyzing some responses to it, including my own. What is happening here is happening on other campuses as well. 
The change taking place has to do not with nuclear technology but with nuclear symbols. What Schell has done has been to evoke the vision, not of a population decimated and an earth ravaged by the bomb -as in past pictures -but of a human race utterly destroyed by it, with all life on earth extin­guished. 
This is a blinding apocalyptic vision, a radi­cally new set of images. To use the currently popular phrase on most campuses, it marks a "paradigm shift" -a drastic change in the ac­cepted assumptions behind our thinking about nuclear weapons. 

What makes it powerful is that it has moved from the political to the moral and religious. Schell's crucial second chapter is written in a religious vein, dealing with first and last things, asserting that human values depend on the continuance of human life, and that no­thing can be of value -not freedom nor happiness nor creativeness -if life is extin­guished. 
Understandably this has evoked a religious response, notably from the Catholic Bishops under Archbishop Joseph Bernardin of Chicago, who have been drafting and redraft­ing a new collective position on nuclear weapons. It marks a sharp shift in the political expression of American Catholic thought and may prove the most important religious­political event ofthe '80s thus far. 
Its importance, like that of Schell's book, goes beyond the nuclear freeze initiative. A bilateral freeze, carefully negotiated and well inspected, would make sense whether it came before or after mutual arms reductions. But the sheer logic of Schell's extinction imagery must carry its supporters beyond deterrence and SALT and freeze and reduction, all the way to unilateral disarmament and nuclear pacifism. 
If, in fact, human extinction is the model we use, then all other values pale before it, and even the risks of the possible surrender of the Free World to Soviet t intimidation and domination is a risk worth taking. "Better Red Than Dead" becomes thus a moral­philosophical position. 
Only a small minority ofAmericans support unilateral disarmament today, perhaps one in seven. But I am talking of the upheavals that control the future tides of thought and emo­tion. 
Coprrighl 19Hl, l.o:o. Angdc!) Time:. Syndicate 

P.O. Box Q 

Food fights in dining halls 
DearEditor: 

Several students who were involved in the Viking food fiasco at the South Dining Hall requested that I write The Obseroer this let­ter. 
Thirty-six Holy Cross students were fined S25 and given 15 hours ofgarbage can clean­ing duties in the dining halls as a result of their infraction. 
As a group, they ran past the checker, ate spaghetti with their hands, and some poured milk and threw other objects. They claimed it was a"tradition." Most ofthem were fresh­men. 
They now object to the fact that 60 Dillon and Alumni residents allegedly were in­volved in a food fight after the Pitt game which they claim was a more serious viola­tion than their own Viking night. However, none ofthese alleged offenders were caught by the dining hall personnel because the dining hall personnel were "short-handed" that night. 
Furthermore, they point out to this office that their sanction of S25 and 15 hours of work was designed also to remind the rest of the student community that these actions are against the rules, yet no news was printed in The Obseroer to carry that message to other students. 
Food fights involve a disrespect for the professional people who prepare and serve the food and for the many students who also work there who must clean up after these immature demonstrations. 
Than~ you for your courtesy. 
james A. Roemer Dean ofStudents 


Editorial Board Department Managers

The Observer-­
1/·1• ( )/",.,.' o '' an tndcpcndcn: m·w'f'.lf'l'f f'uhl"he,i I')' rhc ,tudcnr, ni tht· Editor-in-Chief...... .............. Michael Monk Business Manager .............................Tony Aiello 111\l'f'IIY of Notr~-n.une du I..t, .trhl SJtfll l\Llfl'·, ( ullc_c~-. It dot:\ 1"'111 f1l"\l'"·''")' .\lanaxinp, Editor ......Ryan \'er Berkmoe~ Controller ........................... .................Eric ~chulz rdk-.t !he rolt.w, of the Jdllltlll'tr.ltlllll ,,f t"lther lll'itituttllll. The flL"\\'' ,, rq,urt. Executi1•e Seu·s Editor .David Dziedzic Adr,ertising Manager.......................Chri' Owc:n 
c.l ·'' .l<lUfJtely and ,1\ ohjnlt\d)' -" l''"''bk. hltton.ll' rq'tt"'il'nt th<" opt:lton of S.HCExeculi1•e Editor. . .. Margaret fosmoc: Production Manager..................Maura .\lurphy .1 m.qonty of tht· Fdttorul 1\o.tr,l ( OolllllcnLirH·,, opinwn' .lrhl lcttt'f\ .trc the new' .\jwrts Editor. ............Chris :'1/cc:dlc:s Circulation Manager ..........................Ray lnglin of thnr author'. ( olumn ~I'J,c '' J\'Jd.thk 111 .ill memhcr, of the <vrnmuntt)' . .1nd Editorials Editor ............. Paul :\1<:Ginn .\)•stems Manager ...........................Bruce: Oakky tht· free expre,stvn of \'.Hyutg optniOm on ~ampu>. t!uougb letter>. •~ entounged. 1-'ea/llres Editor.. ..........Tari Brown 
Photo Et!ilt'ir ................................... Rachel Blount 
Founded November 3, 1966 
P.O.Hnx Q. Noen· l>amt·, IN -t6SS6 l.! I l)) H9-S.~05 

The Observer will accept classifleds Mon­day through Friday. 10 a.m.· to 4 30. p.m. However. classiffeds to appear in the next 1ssue must be received by 3 p.m. the bus1ness day pnor to 1nsert1on. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
e1ther in person or through the mail. 


Classifieds 
NOTICES 
...................................... TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
HAVE YOU READ THE MOST FAMOUS WALL ON THIS CAMPUS? 00 YOU NEED A HAIRCUT BEFORE YOU ARE DEPORTED? OOES YOUR MOTHER DANCE ON TABLES IN A COCKTAIL LOUNGE? IF YOU ANSWERED YES TO ANY ONE OR MORE OF THESE QUESTIONS CALL TODAY FOR AN AP­POINTMENT: GUYS $4, GIRLS $6 MfCHOLE AT 7850 
................... Photographers: Am 1oo1<1ng fOJ someone to work for a professional photographer next semester and next year. 1_2 hrs/wk. must be able to do high quality 8&W lab work and be a competent photographer. Greg2n-2657 
Fly1ng Fingers Typing ServiCe now has Selectric and on-campus pickup .85 a pege. Call Margaret or Ann at277-1624. 
Need drummer lor band. Call. Brad 8920 Let's go for it before we get old! 
TYPING, PAPERS, ETC.. CALL 232­n46, 4-9 p.m. M-S. 

\ LOST/FOUND \ 
LOST One Ombudsman poster from our office. fl was our only copy please return it so we can make more. Just slide fl under our ollice door. ThankS. 
tcund: One lzod coat Green. Belongs to Jacke n Film Art Class. n 2:45-4:00. Please call Carl after 5 at 272-8428. 
......................... 
LOST: Gold WOITM<>'S watch lost last 
Thurs from Cushing 1o S. Dining Hall. 
Cracked Crystal. Pte.-call Julie 2724 
...............................~;·-···· ....~ ............... Found necklace in ACC. Call 5149 at SMC and indent~y:-;>· 
LOST One pearl necklace w ruby clasp. fl found please call Mara 6874 
LOST :A Down Jacl<et at the Beaux Arts B'.lll.lt is tan with blue sleeves It is brand new.Htaken orfound, please return to243 Stanford (8670) and no questions will be asked. 
Lost on Saturday 11/13 gold bracelet if found call-Cathy 284-5306 
Lost before break gold necklace with charm. Charm has initials carved K.C.H. If found please call Kacey 284-4304 
FOUND: Pr. binoculars on Greenfield Sat can and describe them well and be close 1o the locat1on and they"re yours. Pete t3528) after 10:30 pm. 
LOST or probably STOLEN one Levis blue jean jacket Thurs nlte at Corbys. If you value your life and/01 want a reward then call 3588 and talk to me. Doni show up at Corbys again without it 

FOR RENT I 
.........,........ Student Housing -Clean -Safe. S100/mo. 291-1405. 
Room in· 4-1/2 bath home in wooded area. Two miles from campus. Sw1mmmg pool. rec. room w/lireplace. Sale with plenty of off-street parking. Washer and dryer Call Mrs Cooper 272-3004 after 12 
noon. 


WANTED 
HELP: need nde over Thanksgiving break to Pittsburgh or to 1-80 ex1ts 22-40 (preferably No. :39). Will share all ex· pense~rand driving. Call Warren at I I 67. Thanks! 
NEED RIDE TO COLUMBUS, OHIO Two riders need ride for Thanksgiving. share usual. Call Larry at x1180. 
NEED RIDERS TO CHARLOTIE, N.C . I am leaving Tuesday for Thanksgiving. call Mil<e at69M 
Need riders to NJ for Thanksgiving break. Call George 6809. 
REALLY NEED RIDE TO CENTRAL NEW YORK !ALBANY. UTICA. SYRACUSE FOR XMAS BREAK --WILL SHARE USUAL--CALL CHRIS AT 8573 OR 3510 ANYTIME 
RIDE NEEDED TO NYC FOR XMAS BREAK-WILL SHARE USUAL--CALL CHRISAT85730R '110ANYTIME 
NEED RIDE TO FLORIDA FOR 
CHRISTMAS MARt< 277-0955 

NEED AIDE TO OR NEAR CONN FOR 
T-GIVING BREAK. CAN LEAVE TUES. 
AM CALL DOUG 8389 

Need ride to New Jersey lor Thanksg•v· 1ng.Can leave late Tues. Call x8050. 
NEED: nde or riders to COLUMBUS. OHIOiorwknd 11/19-21 call: Steve 1857 
RIDE NEEDED-One-way from BOSTON to NO on 11/28-29 Glb·6827 
RIDERS NEEOED-One-way from NO to 
Boston, leaving 1 pmon 11/:Z3.Gib-6827 
NEED a nder to DALLAS TEXAS for 
Thanksgiving call Chuck at 1461 

Desperately Need Ride To Dayton. 
Columbus. Cinn. This weekend (18 or 19, 
20, 21) Sue x4389 (SMC) 

Need 2 rides to ISU Bloommglon. lllino1s this weekend. Call5268 
NEED A AlOE TO NJ FOR THANK. 
BREAK. CAN LEAVE 11/22 AFT RON 
x8:192 

DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO BUF-. FALO FOR THANKSGIVING BILL 1412 0 FOR THANKSGIVING BILL 1412 

TICKETS 

I NEED 4 USC G)i;;"cALL BRENDAN 3207 

PERSONALS 
Givenchy. Chnstian D1or. B1ll Blass. Cal­vin Klein --None ol them can hold a candle to the Paul Fahrenbach collection. Coming soon to your favonte Salvation Army Thrift store. Get yours now before they become 1n style. L1ke Paul 
JOIN REGGIE EVERY MONDAY AND FRIDAY MOANING FROM 10 AM TO 11 AM FOR THE MID MORNING BREAK ON WSND AM 114, THE SOUND OF NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'Si 
Chip Block... 
(I know--it's h111d to believe.) 
Will he film hiS own mental breakdown? Stay tuned ... 
Dave Terrance. .. He should have been. m yestMday·s paper 
Michigan ..deed 
Prtt .. dead 
Sugar Bowl. .. dead 
RW... ??? 
ps. rt·s fourth and twenty-hve . 
Little Pumpkin, You·ra a good sport. Since I satd that. will you cancel your ··genmg even plan? 
THE EXORCIS'T!!! 
ST. EDWARD'S HALL. 1U2 -1982. 
LET"S GO CUT THE CRAP! ALL THE WAY TO THE TITLE! 
WELCOME BACK SIS AND BRO·IN­LAW, AND TO KELLY. PATTY. JIMMY, AND TIMMY IM GLAD YOU COULD MAKE IT UP THIS YEAR. HOPEFULLY IT WILL BE AS MUCH FUN AS LAST TIME I CAN T PROMISE A MORE EXCITING GAME BUT YOU NEVER WITH NO. TELL THE KIDS THAT I DON"T THINK THERE ARE ANY PARTIES THIS WEEKEND SO THEY BETTER HAVE SOME BOOKS TO STUDY 
LOVE, UNCL.E TOMMY 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY. RICK MCBRIEN' YOU RE FOURTEEN YEARS OLD. VERY DEBONAIR. AND A GREEN­HAIRED MAN-ABOUT-TOWN! YOURE SOMETHING FAR PIFFERENT! LOVE. MARCY. VICKY. AND JOHN 
Atl•ntal Atlanta!.Atl•ntal 
Ale you going 10 or through At/ants lor Thanksgiving break? 1 need a ride. Please take this turkey home wdh you. Call Jeb at8641. Thanks/ 
St. Edwards Halllurns 1 00!!!!! 
St. Edward·s Hall turns 100!1!!! St. Edwards Hall turns 100!!!!! 
St. Edward·s Hall turns 1 00!!!!! 
St. Edward·sHall 1882-1982 Supermen 1n a super dorm Come and see THE EXORCIST th1s Wed. and ThUts. 1n the Eng;neering Auditonum. 7, 9:15, & 11:30 
We did it LOUIS& !II We re o.uf of last place Sorry Chris 

MllwaukM... I need a ride this week to MilWaukee 1 can leave Thursday late afternoon or Fnday morning. Are you going? Take me wrth you. Call Bob al 8641. 
Bets­1miss your laughing lace and your many. indecisaons. 
Dav1d, I miss yoli and good luck with secunty clearance. Love Beth. 
My alnce,.at apologies ••.lor ahy ·IN­convernence my unexpected cancellation of Sunday"s Top 20 Time Tunnel show may havl! caused. But il shaN return; the show you would have heard last Sunday had I been heallhy w111 be heard Thuraday momlng at l1 AM on the same Bat-channel -WSND AM 64 
DEAR BOG, 

Ditch the -1-h and call me sometime. Oh. that snght. you qon t know me, nt call you !hen. Bye 
the resident of 6D9 
MASTER. MASTER: 

UNDER THE NOSE OF NOTRE DAME NOONE KNOWS WHAT GOES ON IF ONLY THEY KNEW ORHADACLUE WHAT INFINITE FUN WE HAD 
A LITTLE A LITTlE A LOT AF AAND 
OH! IF ONLY THEY KNEW WHAT WE CAN DO WHEN THEYRE LOOKING THE OTHER WAY!! ' 

YOUR LOVING SLAVE 
THE "HIT ME WITH YOUR CHEAP­SHOT' WOULD LIKE TO THANK EVERYONE WHO CALLED IN, ESPE­CIALLY THE LECH WALESA OF 2nd REGINA SOUTH M. F. WE HOPE TO BE A MONTHLY SHOW. LOOK FOR NOTES IN THE OBSERVER I THE PARABLE OF THE YELLOW DUCK: 
There once was a g~rf named Gladys who croSsed the freeway and got M by a. Rosannamobile Written by Le Crow. 
·To the wild red-head of Keenan Hall Happy Birthday We love you! your women of 3rd South JM. M.M. S.M. 
SENIOR TRIP TRAVEL NIGHT Wednes· 
day. Nov 17 7::i0 pm .:... Carroll Hall 
(SMC) CALIFORNIA. HERE WE COME!!! 
Go1ng to IOWA lor TManksgivmg? If you need a ride or have room see the Iowa Club s1gn-up sheet by the riders board 1n LaFortune (south entrance to the Huddle) 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY GLENN. NINETEEN AND A PRINCETONIAN WHAT MORE COULD YOU ASK FOR? 
For some ignorant dirtbelrs information: A FOSI YEA MONKER (singular, dirtbal/1) is one third female--and a lus­cious third at that, one third male, andone third. moose in long· undsrwew and· paper-while african safari hat. II is nO! a who as in person,_but more ola what as in a condition or slats. (i.e.• That over there Is in a state ol Fosi Ver Manker.) See also: 
Margo Moo Mlker 
To the girl (Anne?) who wore yellow and purple to the BEAUX-ARTS BALL and lives on 4th floor P E .. Please call Ken at 233-8626 (Its VERY Important!) 
Congrats! Kevy. The Vo1ce. on ·NHS Gus 
Happy 22nd B1rthday M1ke L1schke! 
Hey. Mom! Happy Birthday from the wa1fs m South Bend' Love. Kathy & Maura 
0. What ev1l potentate would El Zorrc battle 1n Indiana? A· The El Kharte . of course (NOTE· Apolog1es to all wno ao not know the story of the Gay Blade) 
Moose are eleganl. but koalas are cuddly 
One good marsupial deserves anolher S1gh 

Notre Dame Weightlifting Clubwillhavean 
country race will be held Nov. 22. Open to students, faculty and staff of Saint Mary's, interested runners can register until Nov. 19 in the Angela Athletic Facility. There is a $1.00 entry fee. -The Observer. 
Interhall football equipment return will continue tomorrow at Gate 9 of the Stadium. All teams that are finished their seasons must return their equipment at this time. 
The Observer 

Fellowship ofChristian Athletes wm hold a meeting tonight at 8 p.m. in the St. Ed's chapel. All are invited to attend. -The Observer 
Tim Kempton, the 6-9 freshman phenom from Digger Phelps' 1982-83 basketball squad, will be the scheduled guest on WSND's "Speaking of Sports" program tonight at 10 p.m. Listeners are invited to call in with their questions. -The Observer 
Flanner defeated Dillon, 1-o, in their semi-final Interhall soccer match last night. Brian Kiernan scored in the first half on a pass from Mark Yusko. Flanner's fulibacks, Tom Kelly and Mark Mai, controlled the game, shutting out previously undefeated Dillon. The interhall soccer finals will be played Sunday on Cartier Field. -The Observer 
The interhall racquetball tourneywill be postponed until further notice. because of repairs to the courts. Notice ofthe resumption ofthe tourney will be announced at a later date. -The Observer 
Interhallbasketball captainsare asked attend a meeting Thursday, Nov. 18, at 4:30p.m. in the ACC Auditorium. ­The Observer organizational meeting Sunday, Nov. 21, at 1 p.m. in the third floor weight room of the Rock. All students and faculty members in­terested in weight training, bodybuilding or powerlifting or desire to know more about these sports, are urged to attend. Women are welcome. If you are interested but unable to attend, call Matt Kel­leher 1581. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC Ski Team will hold a jazzercise ses­sion for all interested members tonight. For details contact Sue Hull (7971 ), Colleen Dwyer (284-5080), or Sean Chandler (288-2204). 
-The Observer 
Linebacker Jim Morrissey of Michigan State was named the Associated Press Midwest Player of the Week on defense for his performance in Saturday's 26-7 victory over Min­nesota. Morrissey, substituting for injured Carl Banks, intercepted two passes, recovered a fumble and was credited with seven tackles, including one for a loss. -AP 
Tickets are available for the Orange Crush Classic, to be held Nov. 26-27 at the Rosemont Horizon, on a two-for-one basis. The Notre Dame women's team will participate in the tourna­ment. Tickets will be sold at the ACC at the rate oftwo for either $8 or n 0 for any ofthe four sessions. -The Observer 
The Irishwrestling teamput in a strong showing last Saturday at the Michigan State Invitational. Seven Notre Dame wrestlers placed among the top six in their divisions, but coach BrotherJoseph Bruno, C.S.C., cautioned that "it is still too tough to judge the potential ofthis team. We'll need somemore time."-The Observer 
Mike Gann,Notre Dame's sophomore flip tackle, will miss the rest of the season with tom knee ligaments suffered during the Penn State: game. The knee was operated on Sunday. He will be replaced by juniorJerry Weinle. -The Observer 
The Top Twenty colkige football teams 1n The As­sociated Press poll, w1th f1rst·place votes in paren· theses, th1s season s records and total pomts. Pomts based on 20-19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame oponents are 
italicized 
1 Georg1a (47) 10-0-0 1167 2. SMU(8) 10-0-0 1110 3. Penn State (2) 9-1-0 1007 4. Nebraska (2) 9-1-0 998 5 Washington 9-1-0 923 
6. Pitt 8-1-0 860 
7. Florida Stale 8·1-0 nt 8. Anzona State 9-1-0 713 9. Arkansas 8-1-0 682 
10. Clemson -7-1·1 627 11. UCLA 8·1·1 578 12. LSU 7-1-1 498 
13. Michigan 8-2-0 495 
14 Oklahoma 8-2-0 480 15. usc 7-2-0 387 16. West Virg1ma 8-2-0 298 17 Texas 6-2-0 211 18. Notre Dame 6-2-1 199 19. Maryland 7-3·0 69 20. Tulsa 9-1-0 40 

NBA 
Eastern Contarence 
Atlantic Division 
w L Pet. GB Philadelphia 8 1 .889 Boston 7 2 .778 1 New Jersey 5 5 .500 3.5· Washington 3 6 333 5 New York 2 7 222 6 
Central·Division Detroit 7 3 .700 Milwaukee 5 4 556 1.5 Atlanta 4 4 .500 2 Indiana 4 4 .500 2 ChiCago 3 6 333 3.5 Cleveland 7 .125 5 
.__nc:onterenc. 
SanAntoruo KansasCrty Dallas Denver 
Utah 
HoUSIOn 
Seattle Los Angeles Phoenix Golden State Portland San Doego 
Houston at New York Indiana at Milwaukee Kan68S City at San Antoni() Golclen State at Chicago Los Angeles at Phoenix Atlanta at Portland Denver a1.San Diego 
Mid-Dlvlalon 
w L Pet. GB 6 3 .667 3 3 .500 1.5 4 5 .444 2 3 & .333 3 2 6 .250 3.5 0 8 .0 5.5 
P~Divlalon 
10 0 1.000 
7  1  
7  2  
4  4  
4  5  
1  8  

Toct.y'a a.n­
.875 
.178 
.500 
.444 
.111 
•2 2.5 
5 5.5 8.5 

The Observer Tuesday, November 16, 1982 -page 9 

by Mancini caused a blood clot in Kim's brain, leaving Kim near death. See story on this page. (APphoto) 
continuedfrom page 12 

Sports Festival during the summer. 
He underwent surgery to remove 
cartilage fragments in his knee and 
may not be in top shape at the start 
of this season. 

Pinone averaged 17.2 points and 
6.6 rebounds last season and is called "the backbone of our team" by Massimino. The Wildcats also have more depth this season than in the past, especially iffreshman guard Dwight Wilbur and 6-11 Wyatt Maker come through. 
Massimino has great respect for Ewing, who displayed brilliant defensive ability and averaged 12.7 points and 7.5 rebounds per game as a freshman. 
"Ewing is capable of dominating any game in any league in the country," said Massimino. "He has tremendous desire and has the ex­
.Vets 
continuedfrom page 12 

upper-body weight, but looks like an early-edition Orlando Woolridge. Joe Price and Jim Dolan wtll make contribution·s. 
But Bill Varner, Andree, Rucker and Sluby are the keys. And none of them showed the least bit of im­provement Sunday. There is perhaps no one on the squad who works as hard as Andree, or has the physical tools of Varner, or the raw talent of Sluby. But there is an all-important ingredient missing. 
First impressions are not the best criteria on which to judge a ~earn. 
perience of the Final Four." 
Georgetown Coach John Thompson has adopted a cautious attitude about this season. 
"We're in a transition period," he said. "I'm waiting to see how rapidly our young people mature. We are young and unexperienced. This also is the year Georgetown will be the hunted. The young players will not have the luxury of blending in like last year's freshmen. They will be asked to contribute early." 
Gone are backcourt ace Eric "Sleepy" Smith. Returnees include sophomores Anthony Jones, Billy Martin and Ralph Dalton, and junior point guard Fred Brown. David Wingate, 6-5 swingman, heads the frosh contingent. 
All five starters, plus key reserves, return for Coach Lou Carnesecca at St.John's, 21-9last season. Forwards David Russell ( 17.4 points, 6.9 rebounds), Billy Goodwin ( 14.7, 
But Sunday's performance -or lack thereof-belies the real inadequacy ofthis team at this time. 
There is a general absence of desire. 
With a far-Jess-than-stellar home schedule after the first week of December, the Irish basketball team coud be playing before some oddly empty houses this season. 
In last season's Idaho game, the student body proved that they still care -even when the chips are down. Now, the players must prove that they care, too -or they"ll be left to go through the motions alone. 
·--------------------------­
1 .!!L~J.E.IJ.:J2J.;.l~~ is proud to present 1 I AN 
1 .A.UIO.G.RArH...P.ARI.Y 
1 FOR 
.(~I.!..~~J.J?.IJ..~~.I.!).~lf.l! 
Director of the Medieval Institute 
signing copies of 
l"'i~·l..l.iiUzl·~..~·41.15'1·~..i I ()f (AlJ!IJI?~I4 ! 
.................................................................................................................: 
Kitn's condition still 'probably tertninal' 
LAS VEGAS, Nev. (AP) Lightweight Duk Koo Kim clung to life with the aid of life support sys­tems yesterday as doctors and a member of the Korean consulate discussed the medical outlook for the critically injured fighter. 
A spokeswoman at Desert Springs Hospital said neurologist Dr. Lonnie Hammargren would decide today whether to remove the life support systems keeping alive the 23-year­oldKim. 
The hospital said the prognosis for Kim remained the same as it has been since Saturday night -"very critical, probably terminal." 
Kim was critically injured Satur­day in the 14th round ofhis national­ly televised lightweight championship fight against World Boxing Association champion Ray "Boom Boom" Mancini. 
Kim was placed on a life support system following 2.5 hours of sur­gery for a massive blood clot. 
• • .East 

5.5) and soph swingman Chris Mul­lin ( 16.6) lead the Redmen. 
St. John's opens against North Carolina Saturday night at Springfield, Mass. "It'll give us in­sight on how good we are and what we have to do to get better," Car­nesecca said. 
Syracuse, 16-13, lacks a good big man, but returns all its starters, headed by Erich Santifer, Leo Rautins and Tony Bruin. Rafael Ad­dison, 6-7, is the key frosh addition. 
Boston College, which reached the NCAA final eight, has a new coach in Gene Williams, replacing Tom Davis, now at Stanford. The Eagles also lost a 21-point scorer in John Bagley to the National Basket­ball Association after his junioryear. 
Juniors Jay Murphy and Martin Clark, each 6-9, are Boston College's key returnees. 
Pitt, which joined the Big East this season after a 20-10 campaign, is led by Clyde Vaughan (18.0, 9.5). Providence is counting on Otis Thorpe, Connecticut has lost three top players to graduation, while 
a a E
e
• 





GOOD TlffiE 

836 PORTAGEA.VE 
Seton Hall is rebuilding under new Coach P.J. Carlesmino. 
Meanwhile, the old Eastern Eight now is the Atlantic Ten. Pitt withdrew but St. Joseph's, Temple and Penn State joined the con­ference. Temple and St. Joe's figure to battle Rutgers for the title. 
La Salle and American University appear to be the best in the East Coast Conference, while Penn and Princeton, as usual, and Columbia and Cornell, as possibilities, head the Ivy League. 
Iona, 24-9 last season and paced by Gary Springer, appears much the class of the ECAC Metro Atlantic against the likes of Manhattan and Fordham. 
Other ECAC divisions: 
North: Northeastern, which made it to the NCAA final 16, doesn't figure to repeat as champion. Boston University and Canisius are the favorites. 
Metro: Robert Morris and Fair­leigh Dickinson have the best talent. South: )arne~ Madison is ·favored for a third consecutive NCAA berth. 
Hammargren met at the hospital yesterday with Nan Shin Cho. a member of the Korean consulate from Los Angeles. The two discussed Kim's condition and contacts with relatives in Korea. 
Hammargren said Sunday ht­would have the final say on when the life support system was removed, if such a measure is taken. 
"You really have to look at it a~ what you would do if it were your own family," Hammargren told a news conference Sunday. "I think that's the final decision." 
Fight promoter Bob Arum said he had been told Kim was functioning only on a respirator and showing no si~s of improvement. 
Mancini's manager, Dave Wolf, said the champion's entourage was scheduled to return to his hometown of Youngstown, Ohio late yesterday, but might delay the return. 
Wolf said Mancini spent several hours at the hospital Sunday night, talking with Kim's people. Kim has not been allowed any visitors. 
Earlier Sunday, Mancini had at­tended mass and prayed for Kim. 
"He's still so upset, we're not even discussing the future' Wolf said of Mancini's career plans. "That's so far beyond what we are able to deal with right now. 
"I have no idea how he will bounce back," Wolf said of Mancini. "This thing is going to affect him the rest of his life, not just his boxing career. He's a very sensitive man and it's wounded him very deeply." 
Arum reiterated his call for a study as to how boxing deaths can be avoided. "We:ve got to make sure we take steps to avoid something like this in the future," he said. 
Arum called for softer gloves or some type of headgear that could be worn without impeding a fighter's vision. 
"They should develop some headgear. When they put helmets on baseball players, they said it would ruin the game, but it didn't," Arum said. 
Kim, the WBA's top-ranked con­
tender,  received  520,000  for  the  
bout.  
a El::l  

• 

FREE DELIVERY TOCAffiPUS 
with nny 12, 14, or 16 inch pizzn purchnse. ffiinimum non-piZZQ order 
is J5.00. fig 511UurK limit~to two mile rndiusincluding Notre Dnme nnd ,, Snint ffinry's 
FOR THE BEST IN PIZZA, SANDWICHES AND COLD DRINKS 
WE ACCEPT ND& smc CHECKS 

.,• 



Tuesday, November 16, 1982 -page 10
The Observer 
Coming offa successful recruiting year, Digger Phelps basal­ready nabbed two blue-chip prospects for the 1983-84 season. See Chris Needles' story on the back page. (Photo by Rachel Blount) 







WE HELP STUDENTS 
E. 

Army ROTC has more than 6,000 four,, three,, and twO'year scholarships in effect at any given time. And each year, hundreds are available for which your students can compete. 
Scholarships cover tuition books, and lab fees, and pay students a living allowance ofup to $1000 for each aca, demic year the scholarships arE in effect. 
Our four,year scholar, ships may be used at 303 col, leges and universities across the country. Three, and two, year scholarships may be used at more than 700 additional institutions. Schools where students can earn both a com, mission and a college degree. 
So if you'd like to see more 
ofyour students headed for 
college, show them the way. 
ARMY ROTC. 
BEALLYOU CAN BE. 
CALL TODAY .I I . CAPTAIN GREGORY A. CANNATA 
Best, worst 

Tale oft\Vo basketball teams 
SEATILE ( AP) -When the Seattle SuperSonics acquired David Thompson in a trade with Denver during the off-season, a lot of skep­tics said that his "skywalking" days were over. 
They pointed out that Thompson had his worst professional season in 1981-82 and wasn't even a starter with the Nuggets. In addition, there were published reports that "David Skywalker" had drug problems. 
But just 10 games into the 1982­83 National Basketball Association, "David Skywalker" is enjoying a bril­liant resurgence and the Sonics are offto a perfect start -10-0. 
"I knew I would get another chance," Thompson said. "I just didn't think it would be in Denver. I thought I was playing well enough 
i to start, but they were looking for something else from the guards, 
J; more defense and less scoring." 
@ With Thompson leading the way 
'' with a 21.2 sc t oring average, the Sonics are off to the fourth best start in the 37-year history ofthe NBA. Their 7-0 road record and 10-0 overall mark are club records for the 16-year NBA franchise. 
The record NBA start is 15-0 by the 1948-49 Washington Capitals. The 1957-58 Boston Celtics went 14-0, while the 1964-65 Celtics went 11-0. The Sonics open a five­
, game home stand tomorrow night against Atlanta. The stand includes their first meeting against the Los Angeles Lakers, defending NBA champions, who are 7-1. "They're much more aggressive than they were last year," said San Antonio Coach Stan Albeck. "They're tough. They are playing in good sync. Everybody is doing a marvelous job." 
Houston misses Moses 
HOUSTON (AP)-The Houston Rockets' 0-8 start in the National Basketball Association this season has Coach Del Harris looking for signs of the "loser's syndrome" and also a winning combination. 
The Rockets, off to their worst start in history, following the trade of center Moses Malone to Philadel­phia during the off-season, will try to break the losing streak tonight against the Knicks at New York. 
"A coach doesn't want to see his players accepting losing as a way of doing business," Harris said. "The 
first signs are complaining about the 
system, the coach, or travel, or in­
juries cropping up that wouldn't 
normally matter. 
"That's the loser's syndrome. The 
winner's syndrome is when you 
have the guts and personality to see 
you through the tough times." 
The tough times definitely are here for the Rockets. They have not rebounded well, rank last in the NBA in shooting percentage and have been trying to adjust to three new players in the starting lineup. 
"We're dead last in the league in shooting, bm I tell the players that they can't dwell on that or they'll tighten up," Harris said. "We can concentrate on defense and rebounding first and then they'll know they earned the right to be in the ball game." " 
Poor shooting has hampered the 'rest of the Rockets' game, Harris said. 
• • .Frosh 
continuedfrom page 12 
boasts a career shooting percentage 
of 61 percent and may finish the 
season as the second-leading scorer 
in Pennsylvania history. 
Meanwhile, Phelps also tabbed 
Hicks, a shooting guard/swingman 
who is a senior at Indianapolis Cat­
hedral High School (which is ranked 
No. 1 in the state of Indiana in the 
Associated Press preseason poll), 
and was a teammate the last three 
years of current Irish freshman Ken 
Barlow at Cathedral. 
Hicks averaged 15 points and 10 
rebounds a game last year for 27-3 
Cathedral, which ended up in the 
final four of the state playoffs. He 
shot 53 percent from the floor last 
season while leading the team in 
rebounding, and is a prime can­
didate for the 1982-83 "Mr. Basket­
ball" award. 
"Scott comes from the mold of 
Tom O'Brien's tradition at Cat­
hedral," says Phelps. "Cathedral is 
becoming the DeMatha of the Mid­
west. 
"I know we'll be as pleased with 
Hicks as a guard as we are with Ken 
Barlow as a front-line player. His 
potential in the backcourt will give 
us a good nucleus with (freshmen) 
Joe Buchanan and Joseph Price for 
the next three years. 
"Scott Hicks is John Paxson's re­
placement," continues Phelps. 
"Before his career is finished, at 
Notre Dame, he'll be one ofthe best 
guards we've had here." 
Phelps and the rest of the nation's 
college coaches will resume their 
chase for the prime high school 
senior talent in the spring. 

(219) 232-8488 
Located in the East Bank Emporium Building Hours: 10am·9pm Mon-Sat 
~outh&nd 
I -~Ht II , 
Rocco's Hair I'


·[j JStyling . 
~ ~.W'r 
239-6264 OR 239-6265 ~ 531 N. Michigan St.. I 
J. South Bend I 



-------------~..L:::;e;3;:~J 
Ihe~Der====================================== 

~~4()l~~==========================T=u=d~,s=da=_y='=N=o=v=e=m=b=e=r=1=6='=19=8=2===p=a=g=e=l==l 

The Daily Crossword 

©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
ARf Yoll wORRiED ABOUT CvMt:--JG ur) 
IN'ITH rUNNY )fLi=~ tti'tR'I DAY ,J J 


30 Kitchen mercantile gadget event 
Monday's Solution 

11/16/82 

Garry Trudeau 



Campus 
•4 
p.m. -Lecture, "An Architecture of Conse­quence," Ehrman Mitchell, Architecture Auditorium. 

•4:30 
p.m. -Biology Seminar, "Epidemiology of Dengue and Other Arboviruses in the Pacific Basin," Dr. Donald Shroyer, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium. · 

•7;30 
p.m. -Speech, "Hungers, Population, and World Development," Prof. Charles K. Wilber, Stapleton Lounge at St. Mary's, Sponsored by World Hunger Coalition. 

•7:30 
p.m. -Ladies of ND Meeting, Libray Auditorium, Open to the public. 

•7:30 
p.m. -Humanistic Studies Lecture, "What Makes a College Catholic?" Rev. Richard McBrien, Carroll Hall. 

•7:30 
p.m. -Art Lecture, "The Faces of Power: Art, Politics, and Propaganda," Robert Hughes, An­nenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by Office of Stu· dent Affairs 8 p.m. 

•Fellowship 
ofChristian Athletes Weekly Meeting, St. Ed's Chapel. 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Socratic Refutation," Prof. Gregory Vlastos, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium. 

•8, 
and 10 p.m. -Film, "Foreign Correspon­dents," Chautaqua Coffeehouse, Sponsored by Film Club. 

•10 
p.m. -Call in Talk Show, "Speaking of Sports," Will Hare, WSND-AM 64 


T.V. Tonight 
6:00p.m. 
6:30p.m. 
7:00p.m. 
7:30 
8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. !O:OOp.m. 
llp.m. 
11:30p.m. 
16 NewsCenter 16 
28 Newswatch 28 
34 3-2-I Contact 
16 NBC Nightly News 
22 CBS News 
28 ABC World News Tonight 
34 Making It Courit 
16 M0A0S0H 
22 Laverne & Shirley 
28 Joker's Wild 
34 The MacNeil/Lehrer Report 
16 Allin The Family 
22 Family Feud 
28 Tic Tac Dough 
34. Straight Talk 16 Father Murhpy 22 Bring 'Em Back Alive 28 Happy Days 34 a4Nova 28 Laverne and Shirley 16 Gavilan 22 CBS Tuesday Night Movie 28 Three's Company 34 MYSTERY! 28 9To 5 16 St. Elsewhere 28 tHan to Hart 34 Sound Festival 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 Dick Cavett Show 16 Tonight Show 22 Quincy & McMillan & Wife 28 ABC News Nightline 
60 Self 63 Mauna­65 -·Magnon 67 Possessive 68 Hashad 
enough? 72 To shelter 73 Small dog, 
for short 74 Moon valley 75 Unpleasant· 
lymoist 76 God of love 77 Mid·East 
bigwig 
DOWN Fragrant shrub 
2 -a 

customer 3 Rams 4 Hesitatory 
sounds 5 Cult 6 Calumniate 7 Be under 
the weather 8-Speaker 9 Barlegally 
10 "-are my 
sunshine" 11 Rara­12 Recent 13 Other 18 Poison 19 Campus 
section 25 Place-name 27 Ca 
" 

29 Banishes 31 Animal's 
"hand" 32 Cheer 34 Captured 
troops: 
abbr. 35 Molding 36 Road tax 37 Luminary 38 Woebegone 
expression 
39 Talking horse of old TV 
41 Criticize 44 Fiber knot 45 Pedal digit 50 Wrigglers 52 Delineates 
with acid 54 Jeweler's magnifier 
57 ln­(having trouble) 
58 Typeof thread 59 Chemical 
compound 60 Zounds! 61 -monster 62 Baking 
chamber 64 Mimic 66 Monster 69 Screech 
in comics 70 Bout ending 71 That man 

Observer note 
Well, the results ofThe Observercartoon contest 
have been tabulated. And we are happy to an­
nounce that from here on in, you will be getting 
Nancy, Daryl the Slug, and The Boneheads 
everyday. No, actually Fate won and will be 
published on Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays, and 
Fridays. The runner up in the balloting was Aspirin 
Man, and he will beflying onto this page each Wed­
nesday. 
Ifyou enjoyed voting once, you'll enjoy it again, right? We hope so, because now that Garry Trudeau is going into hibernation, we need a Doonesbury replacement. So, look for another ballot in the near future givingyou a chance to vote foryourfavorite syndicated strip. 
... 

Student Union, Educational Media, and The Snite Museum present: 

Robert Hughs 
-Art Editor of Time Magazine -Author-The Shock of the New "Art, Politics, Propaganda'' 


...
7:30pm 
--------~---~----~--~ ~---~----~--~-----~---~--~-------~ -------~-----~~~­
.... 


Tuesday, November 16, 1982-page 12 





SRorts 

NFL strike 

ltnminent pact falls through 
NEW YORK ( AP) -A settlement so let's give up.'" moved considerably in their direc­was reported near Monday night by Garvey said many of the benefits tion." a go-between in negotiations to end that were on the table in the owners' Specifically, he said the Manage­the National Football League strike. latest proposal "have now been ment Council, which had offered The players' chief negotiator, taken away. They reduced their of­S200,000 in severance pay for a 10­however, said the owners had fer, with respect to older players, for year player, had cut it to S120.000. reneged on parts of their offer and severance pay. They took out all the Miller said the owners' "there is not a deal that is even incentive bonus money. After agree­negotiators had tried to restructure close." ing that player reps cut for their un­their SI.:) 13 billion, four year offer 
And Jim Miller, a spokesman for ion activities would be reinstated and to clarii)' ambiguities to meet the owners, also said the two sides with back pay, they suddenly said union objections but "they (the remained far apart. they would no longer go along with players) are not happy with any­
The conflicting reports came as that. thing right now." the league announced a contin­"That actually reduced their last "Because we had rearranged the gency plan to resume the season this offer substantially while we have money, they're still complaining." weekend. 
Talks resumed unexpectedly ear­lier Monday after the NFL Players As­sociation suffered a setback in 

'Nova, Georgetow-n set 
efforts to have the owners cited for bad-faith bargaining. "Sometime this evening we 

to do battle in East 
should have an all-inclusive agree­ment," said Paul Martha, a former EDITOR'S NOTE: Beginning newcomer Pittsburgh, Providence, NFL running hack and lawyer who today, the Associated Press hegins a Connecticut and Seton Hall com­was acting as an unofficial mediator. four-part preview, by region, ofthe plete the Big East lineup. The con­
"It is mainly a question ofmoney," upcoming college basketball ference has landed a hefty television he said. "Five or six items remain to season. Today's article is on the package for 1 12 games, making it be negotiated. We have a long night East. again the most televised basketball of bargaining ahead" conference in the country. 
Even as :\-lartha was talking, By DICKJOYCE "Ifthere's a tougher conference in however. t union chiefEd Garvey was Associated Press the country, I'd like to see it," said accusing the owners of "union­Villanova Coach Rollie Massimino, busting" back portions oftheir latest The Big East Conference, entering whose Wildcats posted a 21:!-7 contract offer. its fourth season, has emerged as one record last season. "Four losses 
"We thought last night that maybe of the premier major college basket· should win it." we were getting dose. hut those ball conferences in the nation, Villanova will be counting on hol­forces in the Management Council producing three of the final eight dovers John Pinone, a 6-8, 230­
who want to defeat the union ap­
teams in the NCAA tournament last pound center, 6-9 Ed Pinckney and parently prevailed again," Garvey season. guards Stewart Granger, the Big East said. "I think they were hoping the Villanova, with four starters from assist leader the past two years, and 
union would say, 'We can't get there, 
last season's East Regional finalists, is Dwayne McClain, plus 6-7 freshman the choice ofthe league's coaches to Harold Pressley, who figures to step Bou,en, Hicks win its third straight Big East title. into a starting forward spot. But the imposing figure of 7-0 "If Ewing is No.I in this league," sophomore Pat Ewing makes said Syracuse Coach Jim Boeheim, 
I 
Georgetown a leading contender "then Pinckney is 1A."t despite the loss offour seniors from Pinckney, a sophomore who last season's 30-7 team which was averaged 14.2 points and 7.8 
Phelps inks twofor class of,87 
By CHRIS NEEDLES the fall for signing letters of intent. state career scoring list with 2,208 
the runner-up to NCAA champion rebounds last season, was named the
Sports Editor The period began last Wednesday, points, and holds the unofficial state North Carolina. most valuable player at the National 
I 
and lasts until tomorrow. record for career rebounds with St. John's and Syracuse also are
After combing the nation's On Nov. 10, Phelps acquired the 1,624. See EAST, page 9
highly regarded. Boston College,
schoolyards and coming up with five signatures of 6-8 forward John "We liked John as much as any­blue-chip freshmen for this season, Bowen ofWarren, Pa., and 6-3 guard thing for his versatility," says Phelps. 
Digger Phelps has struck again. John Hicks of Indianapolis to add "He's got the touch to put the ball in 
I The Notre Dame basketball coach them to his stable of young horses the basket from the outside, yet he's has once again beaten his counter­that figure to shape the future of tough and physical enough to parts to the punch in the recruiting Notre Dame basketbalL muscle on the boards. Plus, he's the wars by signing two standout high Bowen weighs 220 pounds, and smart, competitive kind of player school seniors last week for the has averaged 27 points and 20 any coach likes to see." 1983-84 Irish freshman class. rebounds a game in three seasons at Bowen, a left-handed shooter, 
This year. the NCAA instituted for Warren Area High SchooL He stands 

See FROSH, page 10 
the first time a one-week period in 16th on the all-time Pennsylvania 


Vets hold key to Irish success 
Sunday, it begins again. After what has seemed like an interminable layoff to some. but probably was next to Skip Des1·ordin nothing to others, the basketball season gets underway this weekend. Actually, this Sunday's game will be no more official than last Sunday's. The Irish will take on the Yugoslavian national team at the ACC at 4 p.m. in nothing more than an exhibition. But it will seem like big time, anyway. 
Gary Bender, Billy Packer and a horde of technical people will descend upon the campus this weekend. showing by the freshmen is a good sign, the wiser fans CBS apparently thinks that America is starved by the see the inherent danger. live sports shortage perpetrated by the NFL strike -Players like Tim Andree, Tom Sluby and Cecil Rucker 
sorry, boxing fans, but we're all a little tired ofwatching have been playing under Phelps -and supposedly two skinny guys with ethnic names beating the bejesus learning the Irish system -for some time. These are out ofeach other. the people who will win or lose a vast majority of this 
It is, to use a tired cliche, a rebuilding year for Notre year's games. Unfortunately, there are times when they Dame. Digger Phelps wants desperately to rebound looked like they were the newcomers. from last year's disappointing, to say the least, I 0-1 7 Georgetown aside, freshmen do not form the nucleus season. He and his staff have made monumental efforts ofa successful team. to bring in a strong field of freshmen. If Sunday's in­John Paxson proved again Sunday that he is, quite trasquad game is any indication, those freshmen will see possibly, the best guard in the country. But he cannot a great deal of playing time -and, hopefully, make be expected to carry this team alone -as he did last valuable contributions. season. The addition of)oe Buchanan at point guard will 
While there were encouraging signs from the fresh­allow Paxson to play the wing -a spot he was born for. men in the charity game, there were disturbing -even But he cannot -and should not -be subjected to the ominous -signs from the upperclassmen. kind ofpressure that was forced upon him last year. 
At one point, the recruits led the "varsity" 31-17. On­Buchanan will step in and play with the best ofthem. 
4 
ly a vehement time-out tongue-lashing, and an offensive Tim Kempton looks like a cross between John Pinone 
A happy Michigan State Coach Muddy Waters leaves the field actjustment on the part of Phelps, saved the "starters" and Bill Walton. Ken Barlow needs to put on some with quarterback Dave Yarema after the Spartans' 26-7 victory from total embarrassment. over Minnesota on Saturday. Thejoy did not last long, though, as
See VETS, page 9
While there are those who would say that a good Waters was fired yesterday, effective at the end ofthe season. 




