, ' .U. W. Participation-page 3 

VOL XVII, NO. 24 tht: imkpt:ndt:nt studt:nt nt:wspapt:r st:rving notrt: Jamt: and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1982 
Expecting Americans 
Israeli troops evacuated Beirut 
Beirut,Lebanon(AP) Israeli raeli troops leave west Beirut before around the Sabra and Chatilla troops and armor evacuated Beirut's the Marines landed in the Lebanese refugee camps to help the newly reconstructed Lebanese army with
harbor yesterday and prepared to capital, and the Marines' scheduled recur­
leave the airport after resolving a arrival there last Sunday was put off security and to prevent the rence ofthe Sept. 16-18 massacre of
dispute with the United States that cntil Israel announced its readiness cleared the way for landing I,200 to leave. hundreds of men, women and Marine peacekeepers. 
About I00 Israeli soldiers, alons children in the camps. The Israeli government, with personnel carriers jeeps and In Jerusalem, Prime Minister meanwhile, approved a fullscale 
trucks, rolled out of the Beirut har­Menachem Begin's government judicial inquiry into the massacre of bor area yesterday morning. decided to set up a full-scale judicial Palestinians in west Beirut, and the The departure of the Israelis left inquiry into Israel's conduct during 
French, Italian and Lebanese forces

PLO's chief of staff, Brig. Saad Saye, the massacre at Sabra and Chatilla. was reported ambushed and killed 
in control of the port for the first Cabinet Secretary Dan Meridor in eastern Lebanon. time since Israeli forces invaded saidthe government was giving the west Beirut on Sept. 15, one day af­investigating committee a free hand
"We are expecting the Americans in the next 48 hours. We told them ter the assassination of then to probe any question related to the · 
they could land at the airport, if the President-elect Bashir Gemayel killings in the camps and to call any Lebanese government agreed it was French paratrooopers and Italian witness, including ministers and OK with us." said Lt. CoL Yaacov infantrmen took up posttmns in and generals, to testify under oath. 
Perez, deputy spokesman at the Is­raeli miitary headquarters in Baabda, five miles east ofBeirut. 

Fasting FLOCPresident 
Diplomatic sources in Beirut said the Israelis had insisted on keeping an air traffic controller at the airport 
too weak to speak
even when the Marines arrived. 
By KELLI FLINT dinator Martha Mcferran claims far­
But U.S. diplomatic sources in Tel 
Executive News Editor mers are not directly responsible for
Aviv said the dispute was resolved 
the living and working conditions of

and that the American contingent in 
Weak after 23 days of "total fas­migrant farm workers. · 
the multinational force probably 
ting," Farm Labor Organizing Com­"The farmers
would he able to deploy in Beirut are agents for the mittee (FLOC) President Baldemar canneries," Mcfarren said. "Farmers
today as scheduled. Velasquez will be replaced by a don't directly negotiate a contract
Israeli authorities were not board member of the National Farm 
with CampbelLthey carry out the
available to confirm the resolution Worker Ministry for a lecture orders ofa 'take it or leave it' type of
of the dispute, though the Tel Aviv tonight at the Memorial Librai:y deal.
command said Israeli troops would 
Auditorium.

,leave west Beirut today as promised. "Although Campbell does not 
Olgha Sierra Sandman will discuss 

Israel radio reported that US. Am­employ migrant farm workers, its 
"The Struggle of Migrant

bassador Morris Draper met with policies directly affect them. FLOC 
Farmworkers in the Midwest" at 8

Maj. Gen. Amir Drori, head oflsrael's wants a direct relationship with the 
p.m.

northern command, for talks on the cannery."
Sandman is a longtime supporter

airport dispute. A basic issue FLOC pursues is to
ofFLOC, and was instrumental in the

The United States insisted that Is-be recognized to discuss the farm
United Farm Worker's Midwest workers' problems with Campbellboycott oflettuce and grapes. 

directly. "The cannery refuses toVelasquez is fasting at his home it n negotiate issues with FLOC," sheToledo. He describes his experience said. 
as symbolic of the sacrifices in­Mcferran said the lecture tonightvolved in the farmworker struggle. 
should give people an idea on what'sA fast-breaking ceremony will


Overhauloftaxsystemproposed 
happening with FLOC after five

take place tomorrow in Toledo. years.
WASHINGTON (AP)-Members "Every time you try to simplify the sight subcommittee that while in the Friends of Velasquez say he ap­
of the Senate Finance Committee pears "very weak" now, and en­"We will make people aware of a
tax system by increasing some­past, many tax shelters stretched the referendum that is coming up next
and the Reagan administration body's tax, that person tends to lose law, "much of what is being couraged him to end the fast. agreed yesterday that the income When FLOC members began their semester...and ask for help," she said.
interest in tax simplification at that marketed today is not a tax shelter at tax system is ripe for a top-to­moment," added Long. all. but outright fraud." strike in 1978, they targeted tomato The referendum will determine' bottom overhaul, but cautioned that President Reagan and some top fields contracted to Campbell and whether to continue a boycott of many proposed reforms would advisers have expressed an interest See TAXES, page 5 Libby. Campbell and Libby's products at boost taxes for most Americans. in moving to a flat tax, and there FLOC National Boycott Coor-Notre Dame. "The present tax code has lost all have been predictions that the credibility," said Sen. Charles Gras­budget he submits to Congress in 
Chairpersons speak 
sley, R-Iowa. Added Sen. Lloyd January will call for such a radical Bentsen, D-Texas, "There is a change. But Chapoton said no such growing feeling of unfairness in the movement is expected in the 
United Way carripaignptafzned
tax system." _ forseeable future. 
The complaints were registered However, Chapoton echoed the Editor's Note: The following is an dorm and that representative will just mean it to be for the sake ofcon­a_-; the committee began hearings on assessment of several senators that interview with Notre Dame United organize the section leaders as venience. a dozen variations of a "flat-rate" tax Americans are fed up with what they Way Co-Chainnen john Bardsley United Way representatives who Q: Do you expect the amount 
-a proposal that in its pure form consider to be inequities and com­and Tom Bogen. They met recently collect door to door. The money donated to exceed last year's total? would wipe out all deductions and plexities ofthe system. with ObserverSenior StaffReporter will then be given back to the hall Ifso, by how much? tax everybody at the same rate, Even with the average 23 percent, Kathleen Doyle to discuss this representative and we'll pick it up A: (Bogen) Last year we raised 
regardess ofearnings. A flat tax, said across-the-board cut in tax rates that week's United Way campaign. from them. That's the basic break­roughly S8,600 or 74 percent. There John E. Chapoton. the assistant Congress passed last year, Chapoton down ofthe drive. are more people here on campus secretary of the treasury for tax said, "what continues to upset the 
'Q: Why have you decided to have this year and I think this year if we policy, would mean a tax cut of S40 man in the street is his conviction the section leaders become more in­make it really visual that the drive is billion for those making 550,000 a that his neighbor who is just as well­volt,ed by campaigning door to going on, make people aware of it, year and a tax increa.'ie of the same off pays 'less tax than he does. Fur­door? we'll get increased participation and amount for those making less. thermore, he is concerned that the A: (Bardsley) This may make should be able to reach S 10,000. One flat-rate plan would allow a fellow in the big house on the hill people feel pressured because We've got over 6,000 students on $6,000 standard deduction per pays still less than either he or his someone is knocking on their door. campus so ifwe hit 75 percent ofthe couple plus a S2,000 exemption per neighbor is paying." But we feel that in a week's time for a students, 4,500 students, then we dependent and tax the remainder of As Chapoton, the administration's Bardsley/Bogen drive this. is probably the best way will raise S9,000. And we hope to do 
income at 20 percent. People earnin chief expert on tax policy, was we can think of to hit everybody. 
better than that. S5,000 to $10,000 would pay about testifying before the Finance Com­Q: What are the goals and plans When I say "hit" people, I mean to 
Q: How did you arrive at the S2 13 percent more; the $20,000-to­mittee, the government's chief tax for this year's United Way drive? let them know that there is a drive; per student suggested contribu­S30,000 group would pay 18.5 per­collector was on the other side of A: (Bardsley) The goal is 100 per­to give them a chance to give. I think 
tion? 

cent more. and those making the Capitol, promising a crackdown cent participation from all the on­most people are generous enough to A: (Bogen) The drive was first or­S100,000 to $200,000 a year would on upper-income Americans who campus students. We are also give ifthey know there is a drive and ganized as it is now back in 1977. At get a 29 percent tax cut. try to escape their share of tax collecting from off-campus students it is convenient for them to give. that time the contribution was 
Sen. Russell B. Long, D-La., through abusive shelters. this year, and although we don't We're trying to offer convenience. SLOO. A couple of years before that described the flat tax another way. Roscoe Egger, commissioner of have a goal put on that, we are fairly So if people feel pressured in that "Ifyou're rich you'll love it; if you're the Internal Revenue Service, told optimistic. Our strategy is basically respect, we apologize, but we don't 
See Q&. A, page 6 

not -look out. the House Ways and Means over-to have a representative in each mean it to be a pressure tactic. We 
L-------------------------------------------------------------------------------­


--------------------------~-~----~-
NewsBrieb 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
About $10 million in federal financing granted by the 
U.S. Department ofHousing and Urban Development will help make construction of a new alcohol fuels plant possible in Indiana, Sen. Richard Lugar, Rind., announced Tuesday. Lugar said the plant will be constructed in South Bend by the New Energy Co., which has $156 million in private financing. The federal package provides S9,963,000 to New Energy and is expected to produce' 450 per­manent, new jobs in the South Bend area. "The plant will also provide a new and lucrative market for Indiana farmers for the sale of an estimated 20 million bushels of corn a year to make 52 million gallons of alcoho~" Lugar said. Ground-breaking for the new plant was expected withi1 n the neet three weeks. -AP 
A federal judge dismissed indictments Tuesday against three defendants in an international computer spying case after governnment prosecutors refused to turn over documents sought by defense attorneys. U.S. District Judge Robert Aguilar dismissed federal indictments against Raymond ). Cadet, Barry Saffaie and Tabassom Ayazi, who had been accused of receiving computer secrets allegedly stolen from International Business Machines. The case involves an alleged cor.spiracy by Hitachi Ltd. and Mitsubishi Electric Corp. to steal computer trade secrets. Assistant U.S. Attor­ney Gregory Ward said the government would appeal the dismissal. Federal indictments were issued in July against 21 people-including nine in Japan -and the two giant Japanese electronic compar..ies, Hitachi and Mitsubishi, on charges ofconspiring to steal IBM secrets. Aguilar's order came on the heels ofefforts by Hitachi lawyers to pry information from IBM to show that their clients are innocent in the secrets conspiracy case. -AP 
Indiana authorities changed their mi~ds today about a trip to Texas to interview Coral Eugene Watts, who has ad­mitted slaying 13 women in Texas and Michigan. Lafayette Police Detective James Withers was hoping Watts might be able to shed light on two 1977 murders in Indiana and planned to interview him in Texas. But the officer said Watts was apparently not in the Hoosier state at the time of the 1977 murders. Withers said the deaths of Linda Sue Ferry, 30, of Dayton, Ind., and Kristy Kozik, 19, a Purdue University student, remain unsolved. Watts, 28, has been transferred to the Texas Department of Corrections diagnostic unit in Huntsville, authorities said. He was sentenced earlier this month to 60 years in prison after pleading guilty to a charge of burglary with intent to commit murder. He admitted, however, killing 13 women in Houston, Austin, Galveston and Michigan, officials said. Watts was given immunity from murder charges under terms ofa plea bargai•. 
-AP • 
In the Soviet Union, source of most of the world's caviar, the once abundant delicacy has all but vanished from stores. It is available only to tourists, the nation's elite and people able to pay exorbitant black market prices. It's a fur cry from the 1950s, when caviar was so plentiful and cheap that Soviets ate it for break­fast. Now, good connections or Western currency are essential for getting the prized appetizer -eggs of the Caspian Sea sturgeon. Offi­cials say the catch is good and only 3 percent is exported. Western prices have quadrupled in ten years and one French importer es­timates the Soviets export 15 times what they claim they 4o. "We haven't had any natural caviar for a long, long time," said an employee ofMoscow's biggest fish store, Okean (Ocean), last week. One store sometimes sells artificial cavi t ar, made from curdled mil and other additives and resembles the tiny black fish eggs. But for genuine caviar, most Soviets must turn to the black market. The offi­cial state price is the equivalent of S32 for a 1.1 pound tin, but black marketeers may charge S90 or more for the same amount. -AP 
A hunting accident that nearly cost a teen-ager his right hand apparently hasn't discouraged him from the sport -and he'll use a thumb that used to be a toe to hold the gun. "I've got a new shotgun and I've shot a couple times since," said Mark Rhode~, 1?·"I am going to try again for a deer this year." Rhodes lost ~ts n~lt thumb Nov. 15 when his shotgun discharged on a deer hunung trtp. His hand was severely damaged, requiring·six operations to repair. During the most recent surgeryon Aug. 26, the second toe on Mark's right foot was transplanted to his hand, said Dr. Ronald Clark. Clark, the surgeon, said that with the new thumb, Rhodes will have feeling and the ability to write. But he will need further surgery to repair the rest ofhis hand Clark estimated about 200 toe-hand transplants have been done in the United States since the procedure was developed in 1969. -AP 
A federal judge dismissed indictments Tuesday against three defendants in an international computer spying case after governnment prosecutors refused to turn over documents sought by defense attorneys. U.S. District Judge Robert Aguilar dis­missed federal indictments against Raymond]. Cadet, Barry Saffaie and Tabassom Ayazi, who had been accused of receiving computer secrets allegedly stolen from International Business Machines. The case involves an alleged conspiracy by Hitachi Ltd. and Mitsubishi Electric Corp. to steal computer trade secrets. Assistant U.S. Attor­ney Gregory Ward said the government would appeal the dismissal. Federal indictments were issued in July against 21 people-including nine in Japan -and the two giant Japanese electronic companies, Hitachi and Mitsubishi, on charges ofconspiring to steal IBM secrets. Aguilar's order came on the heels ofefforts by Hitachi lawyers to pry information from IBM to show that their clients are innocent in the secrets conspiracy case. -AP 
Partly cloudy today,but becoming sunny by after­
noon. Lows in the upper 50s; high of81. Continued mild tomorrow 
with a 50 percent chance of rain. Showers or thunderstorms ex­.pected. -(AP) 
Wednesday, September 29, 1982-page 2 
United We Stand 

This week section leaders all over the Notre Dame campus will be knocking on doors and asking students to donate 52 to the annual United Way drive. 'If you're like the average student of past years, you'll hand over your two bucks without giving it a second thought. Or, maybe if you're in a rebellious mood, you'll mutter something about "no change" and close the door. 
Some students refuse to give to the United Way cam­paign because they say they resent the pressure imposed on them to donate. The fact that the drive is run on a very personal, one-on-one solicitation basis, with section leaders directly approaching individuals seems to make some students feel threatened. 
These students' refusal to contribute to United Way is based on the way they perceive the drive as handled at Notre Dame. They feel that if they donate, they will be giving because they are obliged to, and not because they are acting out ofa true sense ofcharity. 
Juniors John Bardsley and Tom Bogen, co-chairmen of this year's United Way campaign staff at Notre Dame say the campus drive is not designed in such a personal manner to induce "guilt" contributions. It is simply the result of several years of intense organization of the campaign. "We don't run it this way for pressure. It's for 
ganized and controlled by the citizens of the com­munity it serves. Each makes its oum decisions concerning what agencies to support. The United Way ofSt. joseph County does not include Planned Paren­thood nor does it include agencies that have abortion orabortion related activities. 
Bardsley commented on the abortion issue, saying "Any money given in this drive will not go to fund abor­tions... People would have problems with that and right­Iy so." 
In recent years the Saint Mary's Student Government has voted not to support United Way, for reasons al­ledgedly relating to the abortion issue. This year, however, this stand was reversed after the faculty ap­proached Student Government and asked for their sup­
convenience. If (students) port of United Way. Student don't want to give, we Body President Kathleen respect their opinion...We Murphy says Student think there are others out Government plans to set up there who believe it is a United Way committee worthwhile," said Bardsley. that can be used year to year 7 4 percent of the students to promote fundraisers. participated last year. Preliminary plans for the 
But those students who campaign will be discussed refuse to give because they at Sunday's Student Govern­feel pressured should ex­ment meeting. amine more closely the ob­Murphy says that she jective of the United Way doesn't want to set up a program. competition between 
Notre Dame raised dorms, in the manner in $8,600 during last year's which the NO program is or­drive. All contributions are ganized. "We don't want 
distributed to the 34 mem­people to feel obligated to 
ber organizations within St. give -we want people to Joseph Country. These want to give," she said. 

agencies and services in­clude the American Red Cross, the Mental Health As­sociation, the Salvation Army, the Alcoholism Council and many more. 
The most redeeming aspect of United Way is that it acts as a blanket organization, making it unnecessary for the agencies involved to spend much time and funds on donation drives. In this manner, the agencies can con­centrate on their primary role of helping the com­munity. 
The fact that the St. Joseph County United Way managed to raise $2.8 million for these agencies last year is admirable. But perhaps the fact that the money was raised entirely by volunteers is even more sig­nificant. There still are people in the world willing to help others without thought of monetary reward. 
A controversy that seems to arise each year in the minds ofstudents is whether United Way funds finance pro-abortion organizations. The following is an excerpt of a letter written by Joseph A. Greci, executive direc­tor ofthe St. Joseph County United Way, ill response to the abortion question: Each United Way ts locally or-
Although it's too late for this year's drive, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's should make plans to unite their campaigns next year. It has taken NO approximately seven years to reach its present level of organization. It would probably take Saint Mary's just as long to reach a comparable level. Cooperation between the two schools would enhance the early efforts of the Saint Mary's participation and thus achieve better results than ifthe campaigns remain separate. 
Brogen sees the contribution drive as an educational experience similar to requests that will be made of us when we enter the working world. When we graduate and go out into the "real world," such requests will be numerous. It will be up to us to examine them and determine which are worthwhile. 
As for the United Way drive this week, the ultimate decision to contribute can only be made by the in­dividual. But in the long run, the actual value ofa con­tribution would far outweigh any well-meaning plans to cleanse the system by refusing to donate. 
Design Editor........................... Kay Holland Layout Staff................... Cash, Maria. Allen Typesetters ............................. Bruce Oakley AI Novas News Editor.......... Vic 'The Barking Slug" Sciulli Copy Editor.................... Maureen O'Toole Features Layout ..................Joe Musumeci Sports Layout....................... Skip Desjardin Ad Design....................................... Paul Slota ND Day Editor................... Cindy Coldiron SMC Day Editor..................... Greg Swiercz Pbotograpber...............................Jill Origer Guest Appearances............ More of Maura 'Le Lapin'  
The Observer !USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Fnday and on horne football Saturdays except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Mary s Cot­lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year($ t 5 per semester) by wnt1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556  

Thursday, September 30 4:20pm 1040'ShaughnessyHall INFORMATION MEETING 
ROTARY FOUNDATION SCHOLARSHIP 


The Observer Wednesday, September 29, 1982-page 3 
FatherDavidTyson 
Notre Dame future discussed 
'Kellogg Institute 
The Thomas More
Latino scholars to come to ND 
By AMY STEPHAN 
News Staff 
Should Notre Dame require a computer course? Should there be a university language requirement? According to Father David Tyson, executive assistant to Father Hes­burgh, these and other questions should be answered by a review of Notre Dame's Curriculum. /In his talk last night on "The Future of Notre Dame," Tyson suggested that there should be a review of Notre Dame's curriculum, especial­ly the General Education Com­ponent. According to Tyson, both society and students have changed since the curriculum was last reviewed in the late 1960's. Tyson stated that both the distribution and the content of the General Educa­
tion Component should be 
By SONYA STINSON 
SentorStaffReporter 
Helen Kellogg Institute for Interna­tional Studies has brought several scholars to Notre Dame from Latin American countries to teach courses and aid research in that area. 
The institute was founded last Dec. 1 with the appointment of its Director, Fr. Ernest Bartell. The research will focus on the needs of Third World people, especially the poor, Bartell said. One of the in­stitute's concerns is human rights and "the participation of low­income people who regimes," he continued. 
The institute is funded by an en­dowment gift from Helen Kellogg, who had expressed to friends at Notre Dame an interest in interna­tional studies. In deciding how to use the Kellogg endowment, the university narrowed its focus to Latin America for several reasons, 
. First, the concern for Latin America's poor is an appropriate one for a Catholic university, Bartell stated. He also stressed the common Christian heritage of the United States and Latin America and the in­fluence of issues in that area on American life. 
Bartell emphasized that research 
·will be only part ofthe institute's ef­fforts. "We are not just a little academic ivory tower," he said. He and others in the institute are 
reviewed. A Univeristy Curriculum 
Committee  may  be  organized  to  
study  possible  improvements  in  
Notre Dame's curriculum.  

In addition to discussion of cur­riculum review, Tyson addressed such topics as the mission of Notre Dame in the future, financial aspects ofthe university, and undergraduate enrollment, in his lecture to the academic commission ofZahm Hall. 
Tyson stated that financial aid could be a priority in the near future. In the past, Notre Dame has relied heavily on federal funds for financial aid, but the federal aid situation has become very uncertain under the Reagan administration. Tyson said that the administration is not in­sensitive to the financial needs ofthe students, but the building ofa finan­cial aid endowment requires time. 
Undergraduate enrollment will not 
Society of Notre Dame
working to provide students with abroad, according to Bartell. "We more opportunities to develop a so­hope that it will bring students into cial as well as academic awareness of closer contact with the problems of 
presents
Latin American concerns. developing countries," he ex­
For example, Fr. Claude plained. Pomereau, assistant to the director for educational programs, is Both undergraduate and graduate developing .an undergraduate students will be able to take courses 
Socialism
program in Mexico for next year. offered by the visiting faculty and The new program proposes to be other professors in several depart­different from the ordinary year ments. 
An Qverview
Beirutmassacre petitiondrive ends 
ByJOHN BURCHETT 
News Staff 
The "Say No to the Massacre" peti­
tion drive, which calls for an inde­
pendent international commission 
to investigate the recent massacre of 
Palestinians in two Beirut refugee 
camps, concluded last week with a 
total of2814 signatures collected. 
The petition, which conveys stu­dent outrage over the massacre in which 600 people were killed, urges the American government to con­tinue its efforts to solve the Pales­tinian problem through negotiations with all concerned parties. 
"Overall, we considered the par­ticipation on campus to be very good, although there were a few people who had not even heard of the massacre," said Samir Sayegh, or-
CONTRIBUTING $2.00or MORE DIVIDED BY TOTAL NO. OF STUDENTS 
be increase<l in the near future, according to Tyson. This is primarily due to housing limitations. This ceiling on undergraduate admission is one reason why Notre Dame has not adopted open access admission. Another reason why quotas will probably remain on women's admis­sion is the close relationship of Notre Dame with Saint Mary's Col­lege. 
According to Tyson, Notre Dame's committment to free inquiry and fidelity to the Roman Catholic Church are crucial elements in the school's character, but these priorities are constantly being artic­ulated and interpreted in different 

Rev. Fred Pfotenhauer pastor ofHilltop Lutheran Church and 
ways. One future challenge for 
Mary Theis ofthe Counseling and Career Development Center at
Notre Dame will lie in its mission as 
Saint Mary's were guest speakers last evening for the "Men,
both a Catholic and an academic in­
Women, and Sexuality" seminar held in Carroll Hall. (Photo by
stitution. 
fill Origer) 

ganizer of the petition drive on campus. "We hope, that by sending the petitions to the White House, we can communicate our concern over the situation in Lebanon and possib­ly, in the long run, have some impact upon the government's policies in the Middle East." 
The petition drive, which was sponsored by the Arab student or· ganization was intended to raise stu· dent awareness of recent events in Lebanon and the plight of the Pales­tinians in Beirut. 
"We are more ofa social organiza­tion than a political organization," said Sayegh, "but we are also trying to encourage the awareness of Arab civilization and the problems the Arab world now faces among both the Arab and non-Arab students at 
by Dr. Gerhart Niemeyer September 29 
8:15 m IISO'Shag 
Notre Dame." 
·N D p t• . t• Cha t00001981
• • a r 1c1pa 1on r • • • • 1982 


~-­
·-~---~.... 
The Observer Wednesday, September 29, 1982-page 4 
Student activities 
HPC Meeting discusses proposals 

ByDAVIDF. TRACY to $750. News Staff It was brought to the Council's at­
tention that Saint Joseph Hospital The Hall Presidents Council, "the needs blood desperately. They par­most representative body on ticularily need types B and 0-. A campus," according to chairman campus blood drive will hopefully 
Mike McAuliffe, met last night and be started some time next week. discussed among other topics the es­McAuliffe reminded the council tablishment of an allocations com­that Walter Cronkite will be presid· 
mittee for the student activities ing over a discussion on "Science fund. and Our National Life, University, In­
• According to McAuliffe, tickets dustry, and Government" 10:00 a.m. for this Saturday's Michigan State Saturday in the Annenberg game are still available . A total of auditorium in the Snite Museum of 800 tickets were made available, Art. 400 more than were originally ex· IA Notre Dame-Saint Mary's 
pected. women's picnic was proposed for Bob Yonchak's proposal regard­October 10. ing hall section parties will be 
/The Council expressed a desire to promote competition for the Sow­der Award, given monthly to the hall with the three most spirited and creative events of that month. It was 
proposed  that  the  Observer  
photograph  the  hall  president  
receiving the award.  

The Hall Social Alternatives Com­mittee proposed that an award also be given to the hall with the most spirited and creative non-alcoholic event of the month. 
Dillon Hall President, Jim Catalino, jokingly proposed an al­ternative committee to the Hall So­cial Alternatives Committee. 

reviewed next week. Todd Hooper, Chairman of the 
Wallace sought black
Student Alumni Relations Group, is looking for two or three upperclas­smen from each hall to increase the 
vote in primary runoff
group's membership because of the 
amount of work done in conjunc· MONTGOMERY, ALA. (AP) ­tion with alumni. Former Gov. George C. Wallace, bat­
An allocations committee was set tling hard for the black votes he up for the student activities fund. once scorned, put his stormy politi­The committee is responsible for cal career on the line yesterday in a 
distributing the $16,600 available to Democratic primary runoff against the halls for social activities, repairs, Lt. Gov. George McMillan. and hall functions. The committee McMillan, a 38-year-old moderate asked that each hall keep_its budget who drew the ofsuch black leaders as CorettaScott King and the Rev. Jesse Jackson, predicted an up­set victory over Wallace as clear skies and mild temperatures in­spired a medium-to-heavy turn-out. 

Wallace, now 63 and confined to a wheelchair since he was shot in an assassination attempt 10 years ago, already has been governor a record three times. But recanting his segregationist stands of old, he resurfaced after a four-year layoff from politics, saying he now represents "the average man and woman, black and white." 
Yesterday's Democratic primary runoff also featured Supreme Court Justice Oscar Adams' bid to become the first black elected to statewide office in Alabama. 
Adams, who was appointed to the court to fill a vacancy in 1980, was opposed by former Public Service CommissionerJim Zeigler. The win­ner meets Republican Tom Hayden in November. 
Wallace, who proclaimed "segregation forever" in his 1963 in­augural and sent troopers after black voting rights marchers two years later, competed with McMillan for black votes this time. 
During the first primary, Wallace 
drew black votes in heavy numbers, 
leading in every predominantly 
black county. McMillan, however, 
carried most black urban precincts 
and, for the runoff, had the help of 
major black leaders such a.qackson 
and Mrs. King, the widow of Martin 
Luther KingJr. 
They urged blacks to reject 
Wallace, depicting him as a former 
race-mongerer who inspired 
violence during the 1960s. 
Wallace, however, countered with the endorsement ofE.D. Nixon, an 82-year-old black man who is known as the patriarch of the civil rights movement in Montgomery. At almost every turn, Wallace said his chiefgoal was to find jobs "for black and white citizens ofAlabama." 
During the Sept. 7 primary, Wallace led with 42 percent of the vote, while McMillan drew 29 per­cent to gain the runoffspot. 
Residents of California can register 
Students from California who would like to register to vote this November have until Monday, Oc­tober 4, to complete the registration process. Forms are available from Tom Gruscinski in 307 Cavanaugh Hall ( 1483). 
In addition, any registered voters seeking absentee ballots for the· California election also need to see Gruscinski for information on the absentee ballot process. 

The Observer Wednesday, September 29, 1982-p~ge 5 
Rats tested 
Possible cure for alcoholics? 
WEST LAFAYETTE, IND. (AP) -after it was administered -but in by Eli Ully and Co., the Indianapolis The same chemical which makes al­either case we got the same effect by drug firm. coholic lab rats shun liquor could putting more serotonin to work: He adds that the drug-induced work as a cure for alcoholism in reduced ·alcohol intake by the rats," aversion to alcohol tends to wear off 
humans, a Purdue University phar­Zabiksaid. in a day or so, and must be periodi­macology professor said yesterday. Zabik notes that he and his as­cally administered orally or by injec­
Joseph Zabik ~aid a high con­sociates found that, like people, tion. centrations of seroteonin, common some rats like alcohol more than Zabik said the serotonin in human and animal tissue, could other rats do. treatment would differ from other create an aversion to alcohol in rats In Zabik's experiments, each treatments for alcoholism. over several generations of lab animal has a choice of alcohol in dif­
"The only other established
animals. ferent concentrations, or water. The chemical approach is use of An­"We've found that if we make rats are started on low concentra­tabuse, or disulfiram, and with that aenough serotonin available to the tions of alcohol, and if they drink person is presented with a situation nervous system, an animal which has that, are stessively higher concentra­where ifhe drinks alcohol under thecraved alcohol will not even touch tions until each levels off at a con­influence of the drug he'sit," Zabik said. centration at which alcohol makes threatened with becoming violentlyBecause rats• biological mac­up to at least half ofthe animal's total ill," Zabik said. 
hinery is much like humans', Zabik daily liquid consumption. "So Antabuse serves as a crutch ­
said serotonin may be able to be "Obviously, from the first time it supports the alcoholic's
used to help human alcoholics. they taste (alcohol), it's doing some­abstinence through fear, but it neverTo curb rats' appetite for liquor, thing for them that reinforces their takes away the desire per se."
Zabik gave them fluoxetine, a desire for more," he said. "It's a very chemical that indirectly increases positive thing for them, because Treatment with fluoxetine seems the amount ofserotonin available to they're not under any stress, any to produce no physiological reac­the neural receptors, the nerve en­tion other than to radically reduce
pressure ... No one is coercing these dings that receive and transmit rats to drink, just as no one coerces the intake ofalcohoL Zabik. stimuli. humans to drink. There's a freedom Zabik said a carefully designed 
Earlier studies tend to support the ofchoice." long-term clinical evaluation is relationship of increased serotonin But even if the rats have nothing needed to determine whether to decreased alcohol intake by rats, to drink but alcohol, remarks Zabik, human alcoholics could be success­
he said. their consumption markedly fully treated by this method. "We used a different chemical -decreases when they're given 
He said the drug is being ex­one that was converted to serotonin fluoxetine, a compound discovered 
tensively tested. 

. . . Taxes 
continuedfrom page 1 
The IRS is examining 28I,OOO tax returns that appear to involve abusive shelters -generally those that promise little more than a huge tax break. During the past I I months, the agency completed audits of 6I,772 such returns and found what it contends is an S824.3 million tax underpayment -an average of more than SII,OOO per return. 
In his testimony to the Finance Committee, Chapoton said, some discontent with the present tax sys­tem is traceable to the erroneous no­tion that all the tax breaks go to the poor and the rich with nothing for the big middle-income class. Some of the biggest tax breaks, such as those associated with home owner­ship and employer-paid benefits, are widely used by middle-income Americans, he noted. 
Sen. Bob Dole, R-Kan., chairman of the paneL said, "I am convinced members of this committee are...doing our best to simplify and bring about fairness." One method ofdoing that, he added, would be to continue with the policies con­tained in last year's tax cut and this year's tax increase: cutting rates while taxing more income by eliminating or reducing various deductions. 

7, 9:15, 11:30 Engineering Aud. 
ONLY $1.00 
Part l-Aicohol Attitude Test 
If you strongly agree with the following statements, ... write In 1 ... agree, but not !itrongly ... write In 2 ... neither agree nor disagree ... write In 3 . .. disagree, hut not strongly ... wrlte in 4 ... strongly disagree ... write In ~ 
Set 1 

1. 
If a person concentrates hard enough, he or she can overcome any effect that drinking may have upon driving. 

2. 
If you drive home from a party late at night when most roads are deserted, there Is not much danger In driving after drinking. 

3. 
It's all rJght for a person who has been drink· lng to drive, as long as he or she shows no signs of being drunk. 

4. 
If you're going to have an accident, you'll have one anyhow, regardless of drinking. 

5. 
A drink or two helps people driv1: better 


because it relaxes them. Adli scores 1-5
Set 2
1 

6. 
If I tried to stop someone from driving after drinking, the person would probably think I was butting in where I shouldn't. 

7. 
Even if I wanted to, I would probably not be able to stop someone from driving after drinking. 

8. 
If people want to kill themselves, that's their business. 

9. 
I wouldn't like someone to try to stop me from driving after drinking . 

10. 
Usually, if you try to help someone else out of 


a  dangerous  situation,  you  risk  getting  
yourself into one.  
Add scores 6-10  
Scoring:  

Set 1: 13-25 points, realistic in avoiding drinking/driving 
situations. 5-6 points, tend to make up excuses to combine drinking and driving. 
Set 2: 15-25 points, take responsibility to keep others 
from driving drunk. 5-9 points, wouldn't take steps to stop a drunk friend from driving. 
~KER'SiiKESHOPb;~·
FatherDavidTyson spoke about "TheFuture ofNotre Dame" last 
evening in Zahm Hall. Topics discussed included the priority of financial aid and the needfor an acedemic review committee. See corresponding story on this page. (Photo byjill Origer) 
I ~e~~ij\V\ Sicycles I 
W orld-Reknowned Speaker Designer to Appear 
1 PGits, Accessories, 
I 

On September 30, Irving M. Fried, the world-reknowned speaker designer, will appear at Audio Specialists, 401 N. 
l and Service for all makes i 
Michigan, South Bend, IN to present two extaordinary new speaker designs. Come and hear the G/2, the first 
1 277-8866 I
~rfected three-way loudspeaker, complete with series crossover network. We promise that you will find every other three-way speaker disjointed and dull after hearing 
~ . j.
I

i In Roseland .. one half mile notth i
the G/2. Audio Specialists is also proud to present the area premiere of the Beta, the Fried sound in a 
I 
mini-monitor size at less than $250 a pair. Remember, 
l ·of campus on U.S. 31 _j , i ,.
that's Audio Specialists, 401 N. Michigan, South Bend, IN lon Seotember 30 at 3:00 and 7:00 
L--~--------------' 
UNITEDWAY STUDENTCAMPAIGN 
~OLLECTIONS IN ALL DORMS BY SECTION LEADERS 
STUDENT FAIR SHARE S2 
•
'Notre Dame is a caring place" 
I 
' 
t '

e I ls JOVIcrew JOV aooaaate Bedturten StaJ on caapu u4 •••e $$$ 'IIJ IIHin& u tabcan If 
j, 
JOV Dower nlldl 

l 
I
DeliYtrJ to .D-8a .D...OIYailable DallJ Speclalllll 
DialM·V..-1 (lll'l)to placeu orter Located off the •u•inthe 11ueaat of Lafol1ue Boun: 11:80-8:10 
!he • .D. Student 

Union's Services Ooaaiulon 
needs at least one a4Yenlsln& uluauto 1111 a4qaoe for this JIU'I Do.-k ftls ilagreat experience u4agoo4 oJJ011ultJ to pick up extra $ $$ on acoaaluion11uil. 
1Jlterute4? Oall Jolla KlllJ at 111·'1'11'I 4vin&•uba..lloVI •....•.............•..••......••••..•..•...•.•....•............••• 
~-.........---~-----·~-~-~·-~-----~--~ --·­
The Observer Wednesday, September29, 1982-page 6 
Man escapes kidnap attempt 
small towns, before starting down Montgomery County in the Sept. 21 
GEORGE WEST, TEXAS (AP)-A 
U.S. 59 toward Mexico, deForest abduction of Michael! Baucom, 21,
kidnapped firefighter escaped from 
said. of Santa Fe, Texas. Baucom was 
the trunk of his moving car yester­
buried alive for four days while his day after being held for 38 hours by a Officials said the abductor put kidnappers tried to arrange a man who allegedly buried another Hamilton into the small trunk of his 575,000 ransom from his father,kidnap victim underground for four Ford Escort at about 4 p.m. Monday who owns an electric control panel

days. and then abandoned the car beside a
l. manufacturing business. He was 
Coby Garland Hamilton, the 27-highway three miles outside George rescued Sunday, suffering from 
year-old firefighter, was hungry but West. 
dehydration and insect bites. 

unharmed. 
The firefighter told officials he Police made three arrests in the State, federal and local officers im­
kept quiet when the wrecker Baucom kidnapping and put out a 
mediately began searching the 
hooked up to his car because he warrant for the 38-year-old White,mesquite-choked South Texas ran­
thought his abductor had returned. who once worked for Baucom's geland for his alleged abductor, 
White is named on a warrant from father. identified as Ronald Floyd White. Authorities said Hamilton, who also worked as a newspaper carrier, escaped at about 3 a.m. as his car was 
• • • Q&A

being towed near George West, a town 200 miles southwest of Hous­
continuedfrom page 1

ton. 
Montgomery County sheriff's the suggested contribution was basi­give one percent of their income. spokesman Ed deForest quoted cally just whatever you wanted to The suggested contribution was just Hamilton as saying he was delivering give. Then starting in 1978 or the Sl, but it was raised to S2 last year the Houston Chronicle at around 2 following year, they started miking because ofinflation. 
a.m. Sunday when he was con­it a fair share contribution because (Bardsley) We'd like to stress that 
fronted by a man with a gun outside when the faculty give, they are any amount is welcome -less or Richard Riley holds aloft a sign stating the decision by Interna­a grocery store in New Caney, a giving a percentage of their income. 
more. We'd welcome any contribu­tional Harvester to keep open their truck manufacturing plant in Houston suburb. They wanted to make it correlate to 
tion at all. Springfield, Ohio. Riley, laid offfrom the plant, stood outside the The man, who Hamilton iden­that by giving a set amount. Faculty Q: Is the distribution of United facility Monday after the company announced its plans. (AP tified as White, forced him to drive members, people who work in uni­Way funds on a local or national Photo) aimlessly, passing through several ons, and other employees usually level? 

SEE !BE IRISH IR MICHlGAR, GO BERTZ FROM $16.99 A DAY 
These Economy Fares are Touring Rates, subject to cbanae without notice and non-discountable. There are no minimum 



is contingent upon it 
A: (Bogen) All the money from the United Way drive here goes to St. Joseph County. There are 34 agencies. We've given each hall rep­resentative a packet which lists how the money was distributed last year. The hall representative is to make that list available for anybody who wants to see it. Hopefully, they'll post it in the main lobby or some­where comparable for everybody to see how the money was allocated. 
Q: What are some of the or­ganizations that received funds lastyear?
day and advance ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
A: (Bogen) Logan Center,
mer'vation 
American Red Cross, Big Brothers,
requi!'"!ments, but 
Big Sisters. 

restrictions on when Illbset:ver_ photographers I 
(Bardsley) Just as a statistic, 25.2
and where cars must 
percent ofall funds last year went to
be returned. Gas is not 
Family and Child Care services. That
included. Call Hertz IThere will be a mandatory general·I 
was approximately S71 0,000 that
for details. 
was allocated to these services last
t meeting tonight, Sept. 29, t year. And I'd just like to say that with Reaganomics and everybody com­
: at 6:30pm in the Observer office. : plaining about the cutting of social 
services and government funding, this gives people a chance to make
t t up for the cutbacks by donating to make up that difference.
t t 
Q:Areyou able to stipulate where
t t Notre Dame United Way funds will go?
~·····················: t t 
A: (Bogen) We don't have exact
t t control. The money we get goes to the whole campus-wide Notre
t t 
Dame drive. We just run the student drive and the money we get from the student drive goes to the personnel
: The Juggler : IJoe Raymond of the South Bend I 
department. They take care of the whole drive at the University. The
tTribune will be the guest speaker. t
!________________j 
money goes to St. Joseph County. 

Q: In pastyears, Saint Mary's has 
: Now Accepting : not participated in the United Way campaign because funds were al­legedly allocated to abortion facilities, particularly Planned
: undergraduate works of : 

Parenthood. Will funds raised at Notre Dame go to organizations of this type?
• Poetry • 
A: (Bogen) No money at all goes to abortions. The money goes to 34
: Fiction : 
agencies and Planned Parenthood is not one of them. We've had a letter from the executive director of St. Joseph County United Way that states that no money goes to abor­
• Prose • 
• Criticism • 
tions in St. Joseph County. Now 
maybe there's a United Way in
e Photography • 
Chicago that does allocate it in that direction.
•e Graphics •• (Bardsley) But the money we raise is used in this certain area. 
Q: How much does the University drive contribute to the St. joseph County campaign? 
: for consideration for publication : 
: All works should be submitted to the : 
A: (Bogen) I know that it's not all that much because there are cor­
porations like Bendix here. (Bardsley) The University con­tributes about S142,000, which is 
: Juggler mailbox 309 0 'Shag : 
I :
Deadline: October 1 
nol overwhelming. But it is a sub­
stantial part neverthele~s. 

---~ 
Editorials 
Wednesday, September 29, 1982-page 7' 
Why professors have a bad name 
On many occasions I have stumbled across their classes with the pompousity ofCaligula's explicably unfamiliar with. And the piece de there are a hundred more names which easily 
that time-worn headline, "Why Johnny Can't horse. resistance, the professor who went to bed could be added to this list. 
Read." I believe this question inevitably begs The horror stories that Notre Dame faculty with one of his students and later refused to 
another, "Why Can't ProfTeach?" members have committed is formidable. One acknowledge the student for the remainder of Yet, the excellence ofthese professors does Yet, there is a splinter of the faculty whole professor constantly smelled so rank that a the semester. not excuse the callous behavior toward stu­that leaves us with the bad taste in our mouths nauseous student escaped from class to throw dents by some of the faculty. It would be easy when we examine academics at Notre Dame. up. Another instructor slurred one ofthe most Indeed, the large majority of the professors to attack the tenure system, but I really don't They are not necessarily the professors who amiable students on campus as a "lazy Spic." at Notre Dame are highly competent profes­understand the system, other than to see that are difficult, or who grade our work lower Still another, at the end of a segment of sional who consistantly perform excellent it has failed. Alienation of a student plays ab­material for the course, solicited corrections work day after day. A number ofprofessors go solutely no part in education -especially at in his instruction ofmaterial, stating, "I may be out of their way to be hdpful to students -Notre Dame, where the school emphasizesRobert lloyd Snyder wrong on some of.the material, but this is not immediately coming to mind are Professors "the need to help others," and where the my field of expertise." A professor who as­Edward Goerner and Michael Francis in the professors are paid reasonably well by stu­Mid-week signed my class a rather weighty novel as a government department, Professors John dents who must often struugle to meet the "major portion of your grade" fell so far be­Matthias and Lynn Theismeyer in the English costs of Notre Dame. The faculty (and ad­hind on his syllabus that he failed to even dis­department, Professor Doug Kinsey in the art ministration?) should remember that the uni­than we would like. These are the professors cuss the book in class, much less even test department, and Professor McCabe in the psy­versity exists for the students, and not to who seem genuinely irritated by students upon it. A philosophy professor dismissed an chology department. Rich Hunter in the busi­support the world of acadamia. The sooner who raise difficult questions, who refuse to interested student as "grandstanding" when ness college, a former Senior Fellow, is famous that these unconcerned professors realize this see students asking for additional instruction the student asked a question concerning for his willingness to assist students, whether fact, then perhaps the sooner this problem 
outside of class, and who pontificate over • relevant material which the professor was in-they actually are in his classes or not. I am sure will be lessened. 
P.O. BoxQ 
Stereotypes and boxes 
DearEditor, 
As a novice Domer, I have read with inter­est about the "feud" between the ND and SMC women. Mindful of the tradition that freshman are to be seen and not heard, I have invoked a higher decree: Freshman Don't Listen To What They're Told Anyway. 
Stereotypes are almost never complimen­
tary, and the two given for the women ofthe 
ND community are no exception. I cannot 
stand by the statement that they are con­
trived. As a matter ofcourse, stereotypes are 
developed by observation·ofcharacteristics 
thought to be unique to a particular group of 
people, i.e. all SMC women are preps. 
Someone, somewhere made the decisions 
that would typecast the two groups. Who 
knows, it might have happened over a few 
beers at a football game. 
This is to blame the ND men for the 
stereotypes. "The almighty Domer male" is a 
myth. For example, as I am short and slender 
and only mildly athletic I am stereotyped as 
a wimp and a bookworm which makes me 
particularly undesireahle to: surprise! the 
female community. Come on girls, you 
stereotype just as much as the guys do. Un­
fortunately, the negative women's 
stereotypes are more enduring. 
As for a solution, I offer no great nuggets of 
wisdom( remember, I'm a freshman). I was 
told when I got here to be myself. Maybe 
that's the best advice. Don't allow yourselfto 
be stereotyped, girls. 
There is absolutely no reason why ND and 
SMC women can't get along. Are you fighting 
for something you believe in or something 
that was declared under the influence of a 
Miller' Sure, we could have a mud wrestle 
between the St. Mary's Maulers and the 
Domer Dominators or maybe a Perrier chug­
ging contest and a beauty pageant. Uh-huh. 
Go to your corners girls, and don't come out 
until you're ready to junk this feud. Guys, 
let's help them. They're equal members of 
our community and if it isn't done it won't 
be much ofa community anyway. 
Peter Pranica FisherHall 
Dear editor? 

It is with great distress that I read further than the first paragraph in Mike Monk's "Inside Thursday"column (9/23/82). I real­ly thought that Mr. Monk would be able to get out ofthe "little labeled box" he so aptly 
described. Alas it was not to be. 
Since Mr. Monk seems to need labels to 
work with (he uses them so often himself), I consider myself a liberal -indeed, those who tend to do labeling have called me a "bleeding heart." Yet, I don't see all those who fail to register for the draft as heroes, or decadent daisy pickers, either. Not only has Mr. Monk succeeded in boxing up himself, but others as well. And that's not the only box he creates. 
Granted, registering with the Selective 
Service is not slavery or oppression. It is 
what registration can lead to that concerns 
Mr. Sasway. The Armed Forces can certainly 
be oppressive to those who have personal 
and/or religious convictions against combat 
-especially considering how hard it is for 
those who have those convictions to qualify 
for conscientious objector status. More 
boxes, Mr. Monk -some people do 
legitimately find oppression in the Armed 
Forces. 
And unemployment' What happens to the 
previously unemployed when their "hitch" 
is up? Are there any jobs in the private sector 
for tank drivers or cruise missile crews? 
Now, my ·father received his electrical 
engineering training in the Army and it 
served him well. I do not deny that the 
Armed Forces can provide very good voca­
tional training. But more boxes, Mr. Monk ­
such simplistic ideas don't always lead to a 
fairy-tale public policy achievement. 
"...to kill or not to kill..." Mr. Monk makes a 
step out ofhis box(es) here by commenting 
on CO's, and I would agree with his state­
ments (see above). But again, what can 
registration lead to? Even if you don't get an 
M-16 when you're drafted, you are par­
ticipating in an organization which takes the 
lives ofothers as a major function. You sup­
port, in your activities on behalf of that or­
ganization, that function, even ifonly tacitly. 
Mr. Monk took his forward step directly Into 
another box -and I don't do LSD (only piz­
zas) nor am I stupid. 
I have my doubts about the theological 
concept ofa "just war," but I also recognize 
my obligations to the state as a member ofit. 
On such a basis, I wish Mr. Monk would put 
me, and the others whom he indiscriminate­
ly boxes up, in a carton without sides. Why 
don't you join us, sir? The answers aren't as 
easy to find, but at least you can hearwithout 
all that shouting. 
jerry Meyer Cavanaugh Hall 


Editorial Board 
=--_Ihe_.ObserYer== 
Tht• O!Jferr-er 1 ~n mdcpcndcnt ncw~rarcr puhl"hed hy the ,rudents of the 
Editor-in-Chief.............................. Michael Monk llnt\l'[\tty of Not name du l.Jc .tnJ Sarnt M.u~---College. It does r.ot 11t'I:CS\.Irlly 
Managing Editor................ Ryan Ver Berkmoes rdled the rolrcic ,[the Jdmtnl~trJtiO!J of Ctthcr l!lS!t!UttOil. Tht news " rcrort Executive News Editor.........................Kelli Flint cd J~ .H(UrJtelv J .IS ohil'l.li\TI\" J\ j'O~\tOie. hhtortals rer,re~ent the OptntOn of SMC Executive Editor............Margaret Fosmoe J ma,orrty of the l.drtorl.ll Board. (o.nmcnt.lrt("\, ormions and letters arc the \"ICWS Sports Editor...................................Chris Needles of t!tctr author\. ( olumn Sf'.lcc '' ,1\.ltl.lhk to J.ll members of the tornrnuntty, and Editorials Editor ............................. Paul McGinn the f rre expre-;ston of varylllg opm10ns on lampu>, through Letters, t> enwunged. Features Editor ...................................Tari Brown 
Photo Editor ...................................Rachel Blount 
Founded November 3, 1966
P.O.Box Q, Notre Dame,IN -+6SS6 (ll9) l.W-S.~05 
------i _·. i
' 


Department Managers 
Business Manager .............................Tony Aielh Controller .............................................Eric Schul: Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owet Production Manager.................. Maura Murph: Circulation Manager ..........................Ray Inglit Systems Manager ........................... Bruce Oakle: 
~~S H0 W C ~~~iiSiiiiEiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiWiiiediinesiidaiiy,Siiiepiiitemiiibiiierii29,iii19iii82iiiiipaiiiiigeiiii8 
Tati Btown 
features 
A
utumn is ...a change of season -literally. It is the turning ofthe leaves from the cool placid green of spring and summer to the fiery red and orange of the fires to be lit during the frosty chill ofwinter. It is the in-between time ofvear when the circling chill ofthe ~utumn breeze fills out a woman's gathered skirt and rides over her partially covered sandaled feet signalling the need for closed-toed shoes and tightly tailored corduroy or wool garments. It is the time of transition from basketball games with shirtless players vying for the sweat-streaked ball to pick-up football games where grass and mud-stained sweatsuits become the fashion and the pigskin begins to acquire a crusted outer garment ofits own. Autumn is change. 
Autumn is something else ­something inherent to the Notre Dame community. It is memories. 
Halftime at the Notre Dame­Purdue game Saturday was ex­emplary ofthe importance of memories to the campus. We recalled the days ofglory, the I977 National Championship. We rejoiced in the memory of"how sweet it was," to borrow aJackie Gleason cliche. Somehow it would have been less appropriate to recognize and remember in any other season ofthe year besides autumn. 
Why? 

Because deep in the recesses of our "Go, Irish· hearts we hope and pray that this season will he the time of transition from losing to winning; that we will once again rejoice in the moment ofglory and national recognition as we did five years ago. 
Memories pull us through periods of transition. 
Memories of victory on the gridiron pull us through those quar­ters of play when the defense seems to be faltering and our sudden defeat appears imminent. Memories of the warmth ofspring and summer allow us to tolerate, some even to enjoy, the frost ofwinter's snowy playground. 
During the short time ofthe year we call autumn, we are afforded the privilege of watching the transition while we wait. Whereas each foot­ball game shows us the progress being made toward the ultimate goal ofa national championship, each autumnal day offers signs of transi­tion. 
Nature is most exemplary. With each day we observe the gradual fall ofsleep upon the many stately trees that surround the lakes, buildings and pathways ofcampus. Rich lively greens lose their pigment and become the reds, oranges and yel­lows that signify autumn's sleepy presence. The lakes become rest­less, rippling from the force ofthe autumnal breezes. Even the ducks, by their growing silence, remind us that it is time to rest. 
In seeming reaction to the response of nature to autumn's ar­rival, the people of the Notre Dame community take on the appearance of rest. The quads that were once filled with the boisterous sounds of frishec-tlyers assume a quiet, quiet that is hroken only occasionally hy some souls that venture out to play on the cold, half-frozen mud, often ignoring the cold temperatures in favor ofa more suitahle pretense of warmth. 
We feel the change of tem­perature. We hear the impending silence. We watch. And in the meantime ... 
In the meantime, we wait. And rememher. 

The semester hegins to require that we pay more acute attention to our reading assignment -mid-term exams are only a few weeks away. Accidentally we discover that there is a seven to ten page paper on Plato due on Friday in addition to the two hundred and fifty pages of reading. The hall study lounges become the second homes ofsome ofthe dorm's residents. The restless silence oflate August when many a joke could be tolerated in a supposedly quiet study area is replaced by the terse hushes ofserious academians. 
Autumn is here, signalling a time for rest. Like the couple in Twas theNight Before Christmas, we have all begun to settle down for a long winter's nap. 
Heavy-weave sweaters, tlannel­lined jackets, wool slacks and skirts are pulled from the hottom of stashed away Notre Dame boxes. We await with dismay the slushy, icy jacket that will envelope the campus in the coming winter months. But in the furthest recesses ofour minds. we visualize tltt hcach scene that awaits us during spring break. Each day counts toward the next when the sun will be a little warmer and the wind less rampant. Future days occupy our few hut ever-present wandering thoughts. 

Spring will come; we know that. Often when the temperature has just dipped below a tolerable chill we curse the ensuing cold. But there is still hope in the warmth to come. The warmth of the sun will return once again to invite us to play in its presence and glory again in our memories ofthe go,1d times. 
Together we wait. Students, faculty and staff all suffer through broken-down heating systems, raging winds and hot coffee dregs. Things that we normally do col­lectively, (studying, eating, praying) we seem to do with a more intense, unified vigor. There is something important about waiting together. 
Notre Dame in autumn is about remembering and waiting for the new memories to occur. It is hope for the future while we wait in the present. 

-·---~--~--.-, 
The Observer Features Section 
Wednesday, September 29, 1982-page 9 
Synthesizing the futute 
M 
usic, like manv other fields ofentertainment, is Another reason that the guitar will remain is because succeptible to trends which can run their course, music's nature is very cycle orientated. Both folk rock or change the field permanently. One such trend in and disco, for example, maintained extreme popularity today's music definitely has the potential to cause per­for a relatively short time until their cycle ran its full manent change. and for that reason it cannot be 
course. Both ofthese genres still have influence on ignored. The trend in question is the synthesizer's music, but surely have not produced vast permanent 
increasing commercial acceptance in popular music · changes. The synthesizer is currently a cycle of and its use by a growing number of new bands. Its im­
popularity that will undoubtedly increase as the instru­portance is derived from those observations and other ment is explored and developed, but will tail offand not facts inc! uding its relative ease ofoperation and its 
be able to maintain a rating's clip high enough to ability to do anything musically. These mentioned 
replace the guitar. Ifit did retain all its popularity and 
the guitar was actually replaced, then every band would 
play synthesized music and every lis-tener would buy 
synthesized music. This instance ofan extreme change 
is highly improbable and ridiculous to even consider. 
That extreme change is improbable also because 
there will always be a group of romantics, nostalgia 
Pat Beaudine 
music 

buffs, and guitar fans that enjoy that instrument's sound reasons have caused its tremendous influence on for one reason or another. The romantics will always England's rock scene and its noticeable impact on idolize the stud guitarist and his ideals, the nostalgia America's airwaves in the form ofsuch groups as The buffs will worship the guitar's sound because it was a Human League, Soft Cell. and many other bands.JeffBe­part of their youth, and basic guitar fans either like the ck and Pete Townshend have even gone to the extent to 
way it looks, plays, or sounds because ofaesthetics. remark that the synthesizer will eventually phase out These people will always remain and the guitar will be the guitar. This possibility is hard to accept not only be­perpetuated in them, even ifpopularity totally shifts to cause it was said by two guitar heroes, but also because 
the synthesizer. once guitars disappear, so will the innovative and The synthesizer is also very incongruous wit t h the macho guitarist. The chance ofthis occurence is nonex­
ideals ofrock. Good rock and roll has always been spon­istent, however. taneous, exciting, timeless, and even somewhat rebel­
One reason that synthesizer will not replace the lious. "My Generation", by The Who is a perfect guitar is became ofits lack ofany visual impact at con­example ofa great song because the whole band's inter­certs, or on video. Since the synthesizer can produce raction is spontaneous, and because the song still bass. lead, and rhythmic riffs that usually were played by excites and inspires audiences seventeen years after its guitars, there are no guitarists on stage to prance release. People may argue that Soft Cell's "Tainted around and taunt the audience by playing near the Love" is exciting, but no radio station will still be crowd. :\!any people go to a concert to see a complete playing that song five years from now. because it has no 
show and a large part ofthat production is the guitarist's hallmarks ofa timeless classic like "My Generation" or antics. In contrast, the musician playing the synthesizer "Satisfaction" by the Rolling Stones. is stranded and can not generate any excitement while The synthesizer definitely will not have the impact to 
sitting on his bench. He is isolated from his audience be­replace the guitar or engender other extreme change, cause he can not play near the crowd and can not move but its potential can not be ignored. Thus far, only The while he plays. This is one reason that many piano Human League and Soft Cell have made significant com­
players receive little attention and a small share ofthe mercial breakthroughs. but the future carries oppor­spotlight. Because of this loss of visual impact concert tunity. That opportunity would be fully seized if the halls will not sell out and record sales will suffer. A new syn talented, guitar dominated band, however, has more to commercial appeal while being fronted by a charis­offer, since people will always pay to see a Keith matic, dominant leader like Mickjagger orJim Mor­Richard. Angus Young, or Rick Springfield because they rison. Once this happens, then synthesized music will do something, whether it be prancing around, or just be established and can run its course and reveal its in­plain looking pretty. fluence on the music field. 
••••• c c 
~···· 


Ttivia quiz 50 
I 
hoped you enjoyed last week's quiz. I really have been writing this for over two years, and I hope you have had as much fun with it as I have had. 
Tim Neely 
rock trivia 

This week I begin the third vear of the quiz with an all-new topic. :\tore details below. But first ... here are the answers to last week's anniver­sary quiz, on the origins ofgroup names: 
I. San Francisco band took its name from a sick joke about a blues singer -Jefferson Airplane (courtesy of Blind Lemon jefferson) 
2. 
Took its name from the tirst names of Messrs. Anderson and Council -Pink Floyd 

3. 
Named after West Coast utility -Pacific Gas and Electric 

4. 
From Australian aborigine term for a very cold evening -Three Dog 


Night 

5. 
Stole its name from another group which recorded for Capitol ten years before they did -The Knack 

6. 
From British (now also American) slang for "homosexual" -Queen 

7. 
None ofthe original band mem­bers more than five feet, nine inches tall -Small Faces (they dropped the "small" when a much taller Rod Stewart joined the band in the early 


19...,0s) 
H. From the nickname ofa great jazz saxophonist -The Yardbirds (after Charlie Parker) 
9. 
Name from the lead singer's girlfriend's beauty magazine -Loverboy (after seeing the words Cover Girl) 

10. 
From words Winston Chur­chill never said -Blood, Sweat, and Tears (what he actually said was "blood, toil, tears, and sweat") 


This week, as mentioned earlier, I have an original idea, not one I have used before. These are/were ab­breviations in the world ofpopular music. What do the letters stand for' You don't need to explain their sig­nificance; just tell me their literal meaning. Some I have given a brief explanation; the rest, I feel, need 
none. 
I. MCA 
2. ABBA ~. XYZ (circa 1981) 
4. BMl 5.EMI 
6. 
B.T. Express (what does the 'B.T.' mean?) 

7. 
BANG (the record label; I'll bet you didn't know it actually stands for something. ) 


8. The M G 's (of Booker T. and the ... fame) 
9. 
MPL 

10. 
L.T.D. 


Trivia will not appear next Wed­nesday, but in Friday's paper with the special section on The Who, as Mr. Neely will be providing a quiz on thatgroup in celebration of their new album andfinal concert tour. 
.PETE TOWNSHEND 

T 
Poetty in vinyl 
'[)etc Townshend and The Who have been inseparably connected r for so long that it is difficult to consider the work ofone without alluding to the influence of the other; the group has always had Townshend for a guiding force, and he has always drawn heavily on the influence of the group to work out his solo albums. 
All the Best Cowboys Have Chinese Eyes is no exception to the 
rule; but whereas Townshend's last album, Empty Glass, seemed a 
work The Who might have done ifthey had time, this newer work, 
while rife with songs whose musical style and tone hearkens back to 
previous group efforts, is ofitself completely and exclusively Townshend. 
Joe musumeci 
album review 

Townshend has made a name for himselfas a geniu-s ofmusical ar­rangement as well as one ofrock's foremost lyricists; it becomes im­mediately obvious that the latter was his major concern onEyes. Not that the music is dissappointing -in fact, two or three cuts belong in the Townshend hall offame. But the lyrics ofevery song are of such consistenrly high quality that the lyric sheet could survive on its own as a work ofliterature. 
Townshend recognizes this, and rather than singing all the lyrics on the album (and he does this with his usual skill for rock vocaliz­ing) t reverts to a sort ofjim Morrison/Moody Blues technique and more or less chants some ofthe most resounding passages in anal­most eerie voice. 
I would like to quote from the lyrics, but find I cannot do so meaningfully; to do so would require more space than this review permits, for each song is so well constructed as to prohibit taking one or two lines out ofcontext. Townshend, like any good poet, has a marvelous facility of rhyme; but also, he has the common sense to know that lines need not rhyme to be musically practical. The 
songs are all loosely tied together through the theme ofevery man's importance in the world and the effect his lifestyle has on the degree ofthat importance. In the second cut, "The Sea Refuses No River". an image oflife as a flowing river is instigated, and it reasserts itself subt­ly throughout the length of the album. 
Musically, the album is a cornucopia ofstylistic flavors. Towshend takes a few new looks at his direction as a composer, as well as reexamining some old sounds from previous Who collections. The aforementioned "The Sea ..."seems a new attack on the melodious­ly soft approach common toThe Who by Numbers; a well-modulated harmonica in the background of the piece conjures up almost tan­gible images of the title. One song alludes to its origin in the title: "Face Dances II", and indeed, it might have worked better in the last group album than some material that was included therein. The song begins with a wonderfully light-hearted keyboard run that reminds one of the intro to that album's "Making records". "Exquisitely Bored" is one ofthe best tunes on the album, a sort of"Hotel Califor­nia" from a different point ofview; the sound is reminiscent ofWho Are You with just a touch ofEmpty Glass thrown in for good measure. It is in this cut that the infamous guitar chords are most evi­dent, still effective but played beneath the excellent keyboard work. 
It is here one realizes that Townshend, renowned as one of the greatest rock guitarists in the industry, has begun to be much more interested in the possibilities ofthe keyboard in his compositions. In Empty Glass, the synthesizer found itselfa major part ofthe or­chestration, but it was in Face Dances that the piano and keyboard picked up most ofthe melodies. In Chinese Eyes this approach has 
taken full root, and while the guitar work is still interesting and as 
competent as one might expect, it is the keyboard which forms the 
backbone ofthis album. 

Altogether, whether one sees it as a new approach from an old master, a precursor ofthe new group album, ora masterpiece ofrock lyricism,AI/ the BestCowboys Have Chinese Eyes is one ofthe most interesting and worthwhile albums ofthe year 

...--~-~----~ --------..----~---~--~--~~-~~-------------­
The Observer Wednesday, September 29,1982-page 10 

·~ )·( ANGA Pf[fiR\tP URRllD NA (OlAPA· 05· GUA 
-..-:: 

otre Dame Food Services an LG PrefetidG Inc. present 
THE CulturQf.experience . T • ht outh of the Botdet FiestG!!!!! on•g 
Wed., Sept. 29 -4:30-6:30-North Qnd South Dining HQIIS 
• 

~ 0 0 Q 
• 

• I
• 
l ·;,_ __ ... . Exciting, Truly ffiexlcnn foods I' ·:: .... -.. presented for your pleQSU 
........ 
,__ I" 
.--~~ 
.Jo1n• us ton1g. htlll••• 
----------~--~~--­
-~---------~-~-----------~----------•
-·---­
-

~j)()~ts:/J:=:~:~:·~;L:S=============================w=e=dn=e=sd=a=y,=s=ep=t~em=b=e=r=29=,=19=8=2===pa=g=e==ll 
Ry The Ohserr•er and The Associated Press 
Gerry Faust and Ara Parsegbian have been named to a panel of 124 coaches, writers and broadcasters who will select the winner of the 1982 Lombardi Award. The award is presented annually to the college football lineman of the year. The Rotary Club of Houston will present the award for the 13th time on December 9. -AssociatedPress 
Men's Volleyball Club is holding tryouts for prospective members Monday, Oct. 4, in the ACC Fieldhouse. The club is looking for players with high school or USVBA experience. In addition, there is a mandatory meeting for allfonner club members on Thursday night at 7:30 in Room 15 of Sorin Hall. All former players unable to attend are asked to contact Clark Gibson at 8448. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Golfteam finished third in the Indiana State Intercollegiate Championships last weekend. 18 teams from all over the state competed. Irish players owned three of the top 10 spots. Frankie Leyes ( 75-76-151) was sixth, Dave Moorman ( 75-77-1 52) was seventh, and Craig Peters ( 78-77-155) was tenth. 
Notre Dame's season record now stands at 15-2. -The Observer 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 

1 IS YOUR HAIR GETTING IN THE WAY OF YOUR STUDIES?? CALL MICHOLE FOR A HAIRCUT TODAYl ONLY $4 FOR GUYS AND $6 FOR GIRLS BEST TO CALL AFTER 3 AT 7850 
WOAD PROCESSING SYSTEM $2995 64K M1crocomputer.letter quahty pnnter, word process1ng software, CP/M. Bas1c Call 277-7720 
NEED A AIDE TO NEW YORK CITY ~ver fall break--will pay call G1na 6553 
JAWS!! Wed & Thur: 7.9:15.11.30: Eng Aud:JAWSII 
Lake Mich1gan beach cottage 30 mi from ND Sleeps 12 Fireplace Outdoor bar­beque Ideal tor housepartles $150 3 day weekend phone 616 469 0148 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST. Small cross in the Eng1neenng BUIId~ng area Please call 1187 
LOST: One black lizard skin fountain pen, lost in the Library or outs1de of it. Pen has great sentimental value Please help me 1n thiS matter. Call Rob at 34791! you have seen it. 
Lost: Pa1r of gold w~re nm glasses on Thutsday. 9/23, between the Grotto and Hayes-Healy Reward Call Bob 282­1857 

FOUND, Connell Tnmber I have your checkbook call Mark 8332 
LOST: KODAK INSTAMATIC CAMERA Lost at M1ch1gan game -a1sle 32-33. lm­tlaiS are on 1! M V S Please call 284­5443 
FOR RENT 
CABINS FOR RENT -45 m1nu1es from Notre Dame 616-424-5817 
2 BEDROOMS 280 UNFUA 320 FUR ON PORTAGE CALL 234-8918 
WANTED 

Need nders loU of ILLINOIS Fn . Ocl 1 to Sun . Oct 3 Call M1ke at 1802 
Need nde lo WORCESTER. MASS OR BOSTON lor Oct. Break Call Sue al284· 5193 
needed lutor 1n 1st year spamsh call after 4. 936 ·9818 
AIDE NEEDED TO THE NEW YORK CITY FOR OCTOBER BREAK----WILL LEAVE WHENEVER AND WILL SHARE THE USUAL CALL CHRIS AT x35t0 OR x!l5 73 ANYTIME 
NEEDED RIDE tor 2 to U ol M1ch -Ann Arbor Oct 1-3 call: M1ke 4386 or Steve 1857 
NEED AIDE TO PURDUE.thiS tnday at· ternoon w111 share usual ea:penses call BRIAN at 1064 
Wanled: A Cheap Bli<e TJ. 277-8061 NEED RIDERS TO EASTERN PENN­SYLVANIA VIA ROUTE 80, CLOSE TO THE N.J BORDER LEAVING THIS WEDNESDAY NIGHT SO ACT NOW CALL MIKE AT 277-4300 
NEED AIDE TO MICHIGAN STATE GAME. WILL PAY FOR GAS, ETC PHONE 6261, 200 GRACE 
Need nde to MILWAUKEE tor !he weekend of Oct 1-3. Can leave anyt1me Thurs or Fnday Call JIM at 8891 
Need RIDE from Ft Wayne lo ND Oct 3 call Pete at 6775 
FOR SALE 
WORD PROCESSING SYSTEM. $2995 64K M1crocomputer.letter qualtty prrnter. word processmg software, CP/M. BasiC Cai1277-7720 
FOR SALE SIGMA 12-stnng gUitar 1 month old Call 1752 (Frank) or stop by 809Grace. 
FOR SALE: 2 Oak desks: 50 typewnter & 60 off1ce It Interested please call 289· 5375 
TICKETS 
need 2 GA's tor ARIZONA game. calf Lauren (smc) 5072 
Deperately need 2 GA's tor N.D. vs Miami!! Call SMC-4412. 
NEED TIX TO MIAMI AND ANY OTHER HOME GAME. CHAIS-1730 
NEED G.A.'s Miam1, Arizona, Penn State PLEASE call GREG 234-4234 $$$ 
HEY all you crazy wild people out !here!! We need Tickets and will pay you all the money we have for Penn St GA's and Miami GA's. Make two really sweet girls an offer. you won'! be sorry! call very rich cindy or much well to do katie at 2948 NOW 
YO[ I need.4 t1ckets for Penn State. Bruno and fhe rest of fhe Mob from Ph1fly will do me in it I ·don't get them. Money is no problem. Call Fran 4385 
Need 2 G.A's ro the Penn Slate Game can trade up to 4 G.A. ·s. tor the Miami game Call712-755-3156 day or 3277 
NEED ONE LOUSY TICKET TO ANY DUMB FOOTBALL GAME Call Jim-277­27S7. 
Need 2or more GA tix to IHIY home game esp. MtAMI. B1g buck $$ Maureen 5097 (SMC) 
INEEDMIAMIGASDESPEAATELY IM ALSO LOADED WfTH CASH. CALL 3075. 
FOR THOSE WHO MISSED TH£ IIICIU­
GAN STATE LOTTERY; I haw two 
Mlchlpn Stille GA'a rd Uke10 t...-tor 
elthiN Arizona GA'il or 111..,1 tlludent 
tlx. I c.. melle liP the dl"--In 
caeiL ...._CCif'll8ct M~x37'13. 
THEAEONCEWASAGIRLFROMN.D. WHOSE PHONE WAS 7113 SHE NEEOED GA'S SO HELL WOULDN'T RAISE FOR THE GAME VERSUS IIIAMt-EE (had to make~ rhyme, you know--D1ane WILL pay bog bucks. the parentll un1ts are -yweallhy!} 
WILL PAY BIG MONEY FOR 4 PENN STATE GA TIX. CALL 312-565-51511 COLLECT AND ASK FOR STEVE LONGLEY. 
Trade: 2 Arizona students tix cash For 2 Anzona GA's. Call SooN xll60. 
I truly need 4 M1am1 and Anzona GA tlx lor Chicago area ChriStian Brolhers and U.S. Navy personnel. It you can help out this poor soul and save him from eternal damnation call John at 1580. 
Need M1am1 and Penn St tix big time. Call 1627 
FOR SALE PLENTY !MIAMI TIX! BEST OFFER CALL xt535 
PLEASE HELP ME:: I desperately need up lo 4 GA's for the Miam1 game. Will pay $$.Call Debbie at 284-4311 
I will pay b1g bucks tor Michigan State tix. Call Dave 3501 
I HAVE 1 MICH. ST. TICKET; WOULD LIKE TO TRADE FOR MIAMI GA'S AND PAY DIFFERENCE. CALL BAIAN-2187 
Need Mich1gan State Tix! Several GA·s wanted for road tnp to East Lansing th1s weekend Please cafl6931 if you can help 
Very wealthy individual needs: 
2M.....IG.A.a 
and 
2 Penn St. G.A.a 
Call Pat at 8652 
Need 4 GAs and 2 studenls for Anzona CaiiSMC4451 
I NEED 2 MIAMI GAS. PLEASE CALL TRACY X8009 
Needed: Miam1 Tlx Call Bill at 8922 
NEED!!! One, lwo, three M1ami GA·s. Parents coming long way tor frst ND game. Please Call Ray at 1177. 
Need mega-bad just ONE ARIZ tiCket tor MoM (first ND game s1nce 19611 Call Conme at 4311. 
Needed 2 T1x to Penn State $$$Bob-1723 
HELP! GIRLFRIEND WILL HAVE MY HEAD IF I DONT GET 5 MIAMI TIX! JEFF2257 
wanted: 2 GAS to MIAMI game Jack1e 3464 
HELP! I NEED 1 STUDENT MIAMI & 1 STUDENT PENN TIK: CALL JOANIE AT 2244 
I w111 pay 100$ lor tour M1ami GAs or two GAs and two sludent ticket Call George af8664. 
Need 4 GAs to Miami & Arizona Call 7970. 
See lhe Who one last time 4 ti• lor the Oct 6 concert at the Rosemont Honzon. Call 1195 
Need 4 Miami GA·s Call 1225 
Paddles from the Old Country have I raveled to see !he Fighting Irish. Will pay BIG S$$ for 4 Anzona or Penn State tix. Call John at 1570affer 11 p.m. 
I NEED MICHIGAN TICKETS! DAVE 1773 
HELP! NEED FOUR GA MIAMI TIX IN ORDER TO GET MY SUMMER JOB BACK! PLEASE CALl JOHN AT 277· 1708 PREFERABLY AFTER 11 :OOpm. 
Cross Countrymeets will be held on three successive Thursdays, beginning October 7. The two-and-a-half mile races will be run on the golfcourse. Team or insurance forms must be turned in to the NVA office before October 7. The races will start and finish at the second tree, where racers are asked to gather by 4:15 p.m. the day ofeach race. -The Observer 
The Martial Arts Association will hold a second or­ganizational meeting tomorrow night at 6:30 in Room 219 of The Rock. The instructors will be present to field questions. All in­terested parties, especially beginners, are invited to attend. For more information, call 8241. -The Observer 
ND'S women's volleyball team hosts Bethel, St. Francis, and Tri-State tomorrow night in the ACC Pq. The Irish take on Bethel at 4:30, and face the winner of the St. Francis-Tri-State match at 6 p.m. -The Observer 
Mike Larkin, Irish linebacker, has been named Midwest Defensive Player ofthe Week by the Associated Press. The 6-1, 21 !­pound sophomore had 12 tackles and broke up one pass in Notre Dame's 28-14 win over Purdue. -Associated Press 
See BRIEFS, page 13 
I need one ticket for m1chigan state game .... cal/ Art at 277-8371 
Need 3 or 4 GA's tor ARIZONA game Please call Tom -3360 
HELP! MY BROTHERS NEED 2 TIX FOR THE N.D.-ARIZONA GAME WILL PAY BIG BUCKS. CALL JOHN AT 8219. 
HELP!! I NEED 1 OR 2 TICKETS FOR MIAMI. STUDENT OR GA'S. PLEASE CALL TONY AT 8872 
Will trade 1 Arizona GA for either 1 Miami GA or student t1cket Call Dave at 1380. 
desperately need 1 pair GAs to Arizona game. $no obfect. Call Tom at 232-7793 afterltpm. 
Want: 2 or 4 t1x for any home football game. Willing 10 pay I he go~ng rate Please call collect: (312) 377-9117 
HELP 

Family maktng sojourn from West Virginta hills to South Bend Need two Miami student or GA tix so 1 can tntroduce them to football' Call Scott at 6931 . 
Need 1 STU TICK and 2 GA's for MIAMI PLEASE HELP!! CALL 289-9304 
Needed: 2 Penn St. GA's & 2 St TX. Mark 4258 . 
NEED ARIZONA TICKET, STUDENT or GA, CALL 3242 
Trade·l have 2 G.A M1am1-need 2 G.A Penn. State-call Glenn-3248 
PERSONALS 

MARKETING CLUB TICKET RAFFLE 2 GAS FOR MIAMI AND ARIZONA GAMES. CHANCES 3/$1 FOR MARKETING CLUB MEMBERS AND 2/$1 FOR OTHERS. TO ENTER CON· TACT MATT WESTOVER (277-4305) TIM THIRY (1651), MARGARET MCCARTHY (2909), OR JIM 0 HARA (3275). DRAWING HELD THE WED­NESDAY BEFORE EACH GAME 
ATTENTION: FRESHMEN OF REGINA Remember to vote for Deb Vondreaek -PrM. and Llaa Seidel· V.P. We're for youI 
Desperate lor 2 Penn St. GAs! GOOdS$$ 
Call Tom, 1417 

UNITED WAY UNITED WAY SEPT.26­
0CT 3 GIVE YOUR FAIR SHARE $2.00 
DAN KEUSAL AND FRIENDS RETURN 
TO THE NAZZ-FRI. OCTSI0:00-11:00 
elect 

UNDA BUTLER and KAREN PEL­
LEGRIN for Regina Hall president and viCe· president. We wanl to work lor you! 
UNITED WAY THANKS TO YOU IT· WORKS PLEASE GIVE YOUR FAIR SHAAE$2.00 
I need rldera 10 ST. LOUIS. Want 10 go home? VIall trlenda? Etc.? I.Nvlng Thuraday llftemOon, September 30. Call Bob 1111641. 
AHention Buflalo Club -Brief meeting 
Wed. Sept 29 at 7:30 pm in Lafortune 
Basemen! 
···········/····· 

JAWS!! Wed & Thur; 7,9:15,11 :30; Eng 
AudJAWS!! 


APTopTwenty 

The Top Twenty college football teams 1n The As­sociated Press poll, w1th first-place votes 1n paren­theses. this season's records and total points. Points based on 20-19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame oponents are 
italicized. 
" 
I. Washington (25) 3-0-0 1,114 2. Pi11(19) 3-0-0 1,107 3. Penn State (7) 4-0-0 1,032 

j 
l 
1 
4. Florida (1) 3-0-0 5. Alabama(4) 3-0-0 6. Georgia(!) 3-Q-0 7. So. Methodist (1) 3-0-0 8 Nebraska 2-1-0 9 UCLA (1) 3-0-0 ·10 Arkansas 3-0-0 11 Notre Dame 240 12. Nor1h CarOlina 2-1-0 
13. Anzona State 4-0-0 14. West V~rg1ma 3-Q-0 15. Texas 2-Q-0 
16. 
Southern Cal 2-1-0 


17. 
Miami (Fla.) 3-1-0 18 Boston College 2-0-1 19 Minnesota 3-0-0 20. Auburn 3-0-0 


The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday. 10 a_m. to 4:30 p.m. However, classifieds to appear in the next issue must -be received by 3 p.m. the business day pnor to insertion All classifieds must be prepaid. either in person or through the marl. 
HEY REGINA FRESHMEN!!! VOTE FOR MARY BETH LAVEZZORIO AND LINDA CASCIO, PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT WE WON'T FOR­
GET YOu-DONT YOU FORGET US!! ANY SUGGESTIONS PLEASE CALL US. 284-4200, 284-4136!! 
NEED RIDERS TO EASTERN PENN­SYLVANIA VIA ROUTE 80 NEAR THE 
N.J. BORDER. LEAVING THIS WED­NESDAY SO ACT NOW. CALL MIKE AT 2n--4300. 
elect 

UNDA BUTLER and KAREN PEL· 
LEGRIN for Regina Hall president and VICe­president We want to work for you! 
PRE-PROFESSIONAL CLUB MEETING TONITE!'7 PM, 127NSH 20 MIN. MAX. 
ADENTION all you "WILD REGINA WOMEN. just a note to rem1nd you 
lo  vote  tor  a UNITED Thursday wrth  REGINA  on  
KA REN  BRADY and HARTWEGEA  KA THI  

from snowy· from ·sunny· Reg1na Nonh Reg1na South 

ATTENTION REGINA FRESHMANI REMEMBER TO VOTE tor ANN MARl NIKLAS and ROSEMARY HATTRUP lor PRESIDENT and VICE-PRESIDENT WE NEED YOUR IDEAS FOR A GREAT YEAR!! Cal1284-4028 or 284-4034. 
REGINANITES UNITE! The time IS draw1ng near 10 vote tor COL· LEEN AMBROSE and BETH STEBER· who want to lead you towards a great first year! 
"INVEST IN THE BEST' Vote Mary Ellen Waadt for Reg1na Hall treasurer Thanx to Reg1na SN and · adoptees" -couldn't have done 1t With­out you! 
Wilburrr, was thiS tun? (or what?) Lotsa Love. MAR 

Remember TAISH GULLO for President and JANICE HEWITT for Vice-president for a "united" Reg1na. I would like lo thank awesome third nor1h for suppor1ing Jamce and me in our campa1gn with spe· c1al thanks to Jenmfer Malouf and Helen McCormack. Love. Tnsh 
Tracy, 

Whether the sun be bnght or the moon be high, the arm of revenge will have sweet reply. 
7AFL.ANNER presents 

Ouote of the Week This week we two quotes sprung lasr Hurry of activity 
1. 
'I went down, and down, and down until I got SlCk:.. 

2. 
"When you·re 1n the llama its good" 



What is green and am not telling! Are you grouchy? 
WILL TRADE 2 OCT 6 WHO TIX FOR 2 OCT 5 TIX CALL BOB AT 6642 
WAY TOGO! Paula Wongal. 

Happy Bir1hday Dave PI Your roommate IS gone tor the -end. Want to be lucky? Does this remind you of N­YOrk? Love, Two HosereHes 
IJiect 

UNOA BUTLER and KAAEN PEL· 
LEGRIH for Regina Hall president and VICe· president We went to WOrk tor you! 
THE WHO PONTIAC THURSDAY RIDERS NEEDED CALL GEORGEftl4 KURT1112 
"B.P., come out to play THE FRIVOLOUS FINEST OF FARLEY AWAITS YOU WITH UNDYING AN­TICIPATION! 
TERESA SPRING TIME IS PUPPY TIME!! HAPPY BIRTHDAY HOSE 
SCOOP 31, forever! 
To Treena Reena Get some real docks1ders! Big Mama 
Hey F.W Come on over and see Jarrett more often 
Steve, Buckaroo tor two! 
KO 
Fall asleep. huh? The tnple has come to the cosensus that you need a re-bnefing on the three rules Call now lor an appointment 
Hey, you Wed. night roed trlppera We've got our Marrtott uniforms on and were ready to go! 
TOO MUCH FUN/ 
Ken. NO we don't want your 
Those KEENAN guys are so socially wltl> it. What will lhe campus do without them this weekend? Watch out Dooley's! 
O'LULLIVAN Please gel 19 hff y-yard hne t1ckets for the Miami game tor under five dollars a p1ece Mom and Dad m1gh1 be com1ng up! 
Madenda What are you sav1ng !hose suede boots tor anyway? 
Attention allluacloua male DorneR­TOday Ia Patty Murray'a birthday. Thla beautiful bru.-te may be contacted bycatllngSMC 
We love you, PattyI Your noor mat• 
Happy B-day, Mo' It has only been lour weeks but rt seems a year. All well-wishers call284-4238. love ya. Your n-SMC buddies Laura, Bugs, Colleen, PaHy. Usa, Muffy, Linda, AngHI, Becky, Suz, and El 
Doobs, Loose. SUck, Frank, Bainca. Denise, Roban and Ken and Ellen (?)­Thanks lor help10g 10 make my b•r1hday such an experience. The silver satin bedspread will be chnstened soon. 
Kathy 
P.S. Mary, you owe Lisa your life 
Andy, 
Your poems are almost dorie! Love. 'Just a wench' 
P.S. I promise I'll use my real name next timeI 
Ted must have been drunk off his lSI I lo DO rr on the dance floor in the fronl Of all to see. Wrtnesses of this revolting sile are to keep Ted reminded tor his and mank1nd' s salle 
We pray It dae$n't happen again. 
Watch Sue CM!piHICIO her Greg Be/lim· itMion while she hops atound campus. Be ....., to trip her up ..tlen SUE turns lhe comer. 
973 
968 
864 803 702 662 607 
600 529 521 395 372 317 285 132 80 70 

"'· 
r---1----~~--.---~ ---------­
Wednesday, September 29, 1982 -page 12
~ The Observer 
Random thoughts 
Football at all levels 
Yes, I still have my job. My boss is graciously allowing me to continue writing -as long as I don't step out of line again. Thanks Chris. And thanks to everyone who offered me a tew bucks. 
No crusades this week, folks. just a few random 
• thoughts from my sloppy notebook. 
Notre Dame's running attack was dealt a serious blow Saturday when Greg Bell suffered a stress fracture ofhis from Dr. Tom Kelly, Director of Non-Varsity Athlet~ right fibula. Bell limped off in the second quarter. He According to the new guidelines, here are the divi­returned to the stadium later in the game, sporting a sions: 1 )Parseghian: Dillon, Grace, Flanner, Keenan, cast on his leg. Initial reports indicate that that he will Morrissey and Off-Campus; 2)Leahy: Holy Cross, Zahm, miss four to six weeks ofaction. Cavanaugh, Alumni, Stanford and Pangborn; 3 )Rockne: 
The junior tailback will be sorely missed for three Carroll, Fisher, Howard, St. Edward's and Sorin. The reasons. First, he is an excellent running back and pass winner of each division plus a wild-card team will receiver. His lightning speed and overpowering qualify for the playoffs. strenght make him a complete player. In two seasons Now since regular-season games are only intra­with the Irish (including this year's Michigan game) he divisional, an odd situation arises. Unless they meet in has rushed for nearly 700 yards on 117 carries, averag­the playoffs, Alumni will not play Dillon and Keenan ing almost six yards a carry. Bell is also a pass-receiving will not play Stanford. In other words, there is a good threat, having caught 13 passes for 148 yards. possibility that the two fiercest interhall rivalries on 
Second, the Irish will miss Bell's kickoff returning. He campus will not be renewed this year. averages 28 yards per return. One of the few bright Of course, if either of these rivalries should be spots of last season's embarrassing loss to Miami (Fla.) renewed in the playoffs, the game would be even more 
was his 98-yard kickoff return. exciting. But this is only a possibility. But.perhaps the Irish will miss Bell the most because Now the question -why? 
Harvey Keunn's Milwaukee Brewers crept a little closer to their 
first divisional title last night, beating Boston, 9-3. ( AP Photo) 
ofthe incentive he gives to starting tailback Phil Carter. What was the matter with the old North Quad-South Carter and Bell have been dueling for the starting job Quad arrangement? What is the purpose of this new since last spring. The competition, although friendly, alignment? I suspect that the new system was devised to has been fierce. Both players have fought hard to be the enable the smaller, weaker teams to make the playoffs. 
No. 1 tailback. As a result, both have improved over the Shouldn't the goal of a division alignment, however, past few weeks. be to have the best teams in the playoffs, regardless of By the start ofthe season, Carter held the starting job the size ofthe dorms? 
Baseballstandings 
AMERICAN LEAGUE NATIONAL LEAGUE 
e.st East which had been his for the previous two seasons. It was Ifyou can figure it out, please give me a call. 
w L Pet. GB w L Pet. GB evident in the first two games, however, that Gerry ••• Milwaukee 93 63 596 x-St. Louis 91 67 .576 
Faust planned to use both almost equally. In the Michi­Hurray for the Northwestern Wildcats! After over
Baltimore 90 66 .577 3 Ph1ladelph1a 85 72 .541 5.5 Boston 85 72 .541 8.5 Montreal 84 73 t535 6.5 gan game, for example, Carter carried 14 times for 58 three years and 34 losses, they finally won a football Detro1t 79 76 .510 13.5 Pmsburgh 81 76 .516 9.5 
yards. Bell rushed 20 times for 95 yards. game.
NewYor.k 77 80 .490 16.5 Chicago 70 88 443 21 
Cleveland 76 79 490 165 New York 64 93 408 26.5 With both backs playing frequently, the Irish are Their 31-6 drubbing of Northern Illinois ended the Toronto 74 83 471 19 5 
assured ofa consistent running game. But without Bell, longest losing streak in major-college football history.
West West 

California 90 .570 Carter will be forced ta play nearly the entire game During THE STREAK, the Mildcats were outscored
68 

Atlanta 86 71 .548 
Kansas Crty 86 71 548 3.5 Los Angeles 85 72 541 1 against Michigan State. Highly touted freshman Alan 1,370-340. 
Ch1cago 84 74 532 6 
San Franc1sco 84 73 535 2 Pinkett will be Carter's back-up. Faust insists that In Saturday's victory, senior tailback Ricky Edwards, 
Seattle 76 82 .481 14 San D1ego 78 79 497 8 
Oakland 67 90 .427 22.5 Pinkett will see some playing time in relieving Carter, who had neither started nor scored in his career, ran for 
Houston 76 81 484 10 Texas 63 95 399 27 Cincinnatt 58 98 372 27.5 but admits that the freshman has not been tested in a I77 yards and four touchdowns. In the first three games
-· 
Mmnesota 58 99 .369 31.5 
game situation. An injury to Carter (he's missed five of this season, the entire Northwestern team netted 
Tueaday'a Reautta games in the past two seasons due to injurks) could be negative 44 yards rushing. Toronto 3, M1nnesota 0 
Tueaday'a Reauna disastrous. Edwards was named the Midwest Offensive Player-of­
Toronto 4. Minnesota 3 (2nd) Montreal 5, St. LoUis 4 ( 1 0) 
Milwaukee 9. Boston 3 So, Mr. Bell, if you're reading this -please heal the-Week by The Associated Press. (In the past :H
New York 3. Pittsburgh 2 (10) Detro1t 9. Baltimore 6 
Philadelphia 3, Chicago 2 quickly. games, of course, many Wildcat players have been of­
New York 6. Cleveland 4 Houston 3. San D1ego 0 
Oakland 5. Texas 3 •• • fensive, but none have been given this award).
Cinc1nnat1 4. Los Angeles 3 Kansas City 5. California 4 Atlanta 8, San Francisco 3 Does anyone understand the new interhall football Imagine the great feeling of reliefexperienced by the 
Chicago 3. Seattle 1 
alignment? If so, plea~e explain it to me. Northwestern students, fans, alumni and administration 
r~---------------1 
The divisions have been revamped. Under the new when Coach Dennis Green and his squad left the field system, "based on total entrants for the season, teams with a victory.t Attt?r~ti()lll t will be divided into leagues based on living unit under­And to think that some people gave Gerry Faust a 
graduate population." (according to an explanation tough time last year ...
I Residents of NYC 1 
StrikingNFLA 
t t ·Players announce all-star games
: ~~w ~()I~ : 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The strik­sion stations covering more than 60 ment with the league. ing National Football League Players percent of the nation's homes. The "We had hoPed never to get to the 
Association yesterday formally an­games will be blacked out for a 35-point of putting on the games but nounced plans for a potential 19-mile radius unless sold out. due to the breakdown in negotia­game series of all-star games -but "We regret very much that the tions we've had to go ahead with our 
: ~~tf() f]u() : 
t t 
said it had a stadium lease only for regular NFL season is in jeopardy," plans," said Brig Owens, commis­the first one, here on Oct. I 0. T(:d Turner, the Turner Broadcast­sionerofthe Players All-Star Season. 
t Sign-Ups toni'ght only for t 
Although union officials say they ing Sysem board chairman, said in a "We are not trying to dismantle have "locked up" 19 stadiums, they prepared statement. "However, we the National Football League. We
I October Bus t 
admit they have only signed a con­remain committed to providing fans want to play football. We want to get tract for the one at RFK stadium. A across the country with top-quality honest collective bargaining. We
t Rrst come·Rrstserved I
contract for the second game, professional competition through want to get back to the bargaining tentatively set for Monday night, these NFLPA all-star games." table," Owens said. 
Oct. 11, at Franklin Field in Philadel­The players association, which Teams will consist of 40 NFL phia, is expected to be signed today. represents the NFL's 1,500 players, players to be selected by their col­leagues in balloting still under way. 
lFULL PAYMENT DU~tJN-UP! 
The games will be broadcast na­went on strike on Sept. 21 following tionally by the Turner Broadcasting the breakdown of negotiations on a The all-star contingents will
er~~~n.cU~fE~'!~~~4~!.d.!l~l 
System and a network of 73 televi-represent the top players from each
new collective bargaining agree­



--attention 
Row Accepting Applications for Senior l'ormal Oommi,tees 
May be picked up Tuesday, Sept. 28 through 'lhursday, Sept.IO at Larortune or St. Mary's Student Activities 
... 
.A.pplica,ions due 8:00pm friday, Oct. 1 
ofthe league's six divisions. 


We look forward to serving you again 
V1c & Donna G1annetto 

OP~N Sundav• II io 7p m Mondav thru Thursdav lllo land 4 to 10 friday lllo J ClOSW fr~dav Even1ngs R~OPEN I JHour after SuftSl'l SAIUR['A~ 
Phone 255-8089 Corner of 13th and Spring. Mishawaka 
;{ 

-~-~­
Wednesday,September29, 1982-page 13 
The Observer 

Digger Phelps has once again beaten the competition in the recruiting game. At least as far as time is concerned. Phelps received a verbal commitment from a basket­ball recruit yesterday, the first high school senior to announce his inten­tions. 
The player is John Bowens, a 6-8 forward from Warren, Pa. Bowens averaged 27.3 points per game over the three years of his high school career to ths point. 
"We are real happy that John has decided to attend Notre. Dame," Phelps said. "We think he's the kind ofplayer and, more importantly, the kind of person that will fit in well here." 
The 220-pound Bowens is cur­rently 16th on the all-time Pennsyl­vania schoolboy scoring list. With 2,208 points thus far, he could break the 3,000 point barrier by the end of the season. That would place him behind only Tom McMillen of Mansfield High, who later went on to a great career at Maryland and in the NBA. 
Bowens visited Notre Dame last 
weekend, and_ quickly decided on 
Notre Dame. He plans to sign a na­
tional letter of intent on Nov. 20. 
That is the first day the NCAA allows 
players to commit themselves to any 
institution. 
Bowens has pulled down I,624 career rebounds ·in three years at Warren Area High School -an unof­ficial Pennsylvania record. He averages over 20 rebounds per game. He also shoots roughly 62 per­cent from both the field and the floor. 
Last year, Phelps got the nation's first verbal commitment when Jim Dolan .of Thorn's River, N.J. an­nounced his intention to attend Notre Dame. Dolan was the first of five players who eventually signed with the Fighting Irish, and entered Notre Dame as freshmen this faiL 
.. . Briefs 
continuedfrom page II 
The Notre Dame soccerteam downed Loyola of Chicago last night, 3-1, in Chicago. Rich Herdigen, Joe Hohl, and Dave Miles scored for the Irish. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC ski team wm hold an organizational meeting tonight at 7:30 in the ACC Auditorium. Enter Gate 3 for the meeting. For more information contact Sean Chandler at 288-2204. -The Observer 

...................................-; .. 
Corby's ·~ 
WednesdQy night ''Blues Brother Ni ht'' ~ 
Dtess up in your "Blues Brother Outfit" and drink... 9pm-3am 

ffiolson Gold Bottles Jl ~ . Go Irish Beat SpartansI!! ;.
·••.....•••••...•.••.................. ···············•••·········· 
I 
NDteam results 
Fallsportsin full ~w-ing i 
WATER POLO -You might say that they blew 
Purdue right out ofthe water. 
Or you might say that Purdue was simply outclassed. 
'l
Any way you put it, though, the Notre Dame water polo team was close to perfection as they annihilated the Boilermakers 14-7 Saturday in the team's season 
Club Comer 
opener. ii~iiii~iiiiiiii~~~~~~~~~;;iiii~;iiiiii•
The Irish were led by three freshmen who combined . _ __ 1 
to score II of the team's 14 goals. Mike Roberts was deadly on offense as he scored six times against a porous Purdue defense. Fellow first-year player Steve Blaha had three goals and Sean Farley added two more. Grad studentJim Mills tallied two goals and junior Mike Erhard also had one to finish the scoring for the Irish. 
Notre Dame jumped out to a quick 4-0 lead at the end of the first quarter and increased the lead to 8-1 by halftime. After each team scored once in the third quar­ter, Purdue was able to make the score respectable with five goals in the final period against the Irish reserves. Notre Dame was able to play all 19 ofthe players on the team -a feat rarely seen, especially in season openers. The team travels to Loyola of Chicago this weekend 
for an invitational tournament. 
RUGBY -The rugby team overcame some early­
game sluggishness to earn a come-from-behind 9·7 vic­
tory over Purdue last Saturday. 
After Purdue had made a four-point try to open the scoring, Brian Moynihan scored for the Irish to even the count at 4-4. Notre Dame took advantage of the Boiler­maker's earlier missed extra point and took the lead 6-4 on Steve Schneider's successful conversion. Schneider later added a penalty kick to give the Irish a 9-4 edge before Purdue added a three-point-kick late in the match for the final score. Moynihan had another excel­lent game and Tom "Tex" Fallon played brilliantly in crucial situations. He continuously got free for long runs to get the team out trouble. 
The A team is now 3-0 on the season and will travel to Marquette on Saturday for what will probably be their toughest lll_atch ofthe year. 

The B team played valiantly against Battle Creek's A side before losing 22-10. The match.was actually much closer than the score indicates as the B squad was able to stay in the game against the much more experienced Battle Creek team until late in the match. 
The C team had the upset of the weekend as they suprised Purdue's B team I 0-8. John Tuskey scored on two penalty kicks late in the game to raise the C side's mark to 2-1. 
CROSS COUNTRY -The women's cross country 
team had a disappointing tournament in the rain at East. 
ern Michigan on Saturday as only two runners broke the 
20-minute mark. Maria Fiore led the Irish with a with a 
time of 19:24 and a 16th place finish over the 5000 
meter course. Teammate Anne Attea covered the 
course in 19:4 7 and wound up 26th in the field ofmore 
than forty runners. 

While part ofthe team was sloshing through the mud 
in Michigan, the rest ofthe women were competing in a 
meet at Manchester College against three other 
schools. Gina Ochsner paced the Irish with an lith­
place finish with Susan Wanchow coming in 16th and 
Lorie Keating following her. · 
The team will travel back to Manchester on Friday for 
?-!!eight-team meet. 

SOCCER -The women's B team dropped its record to 0-2 as they fell 5-0 to St. Mary's on Sunday. With 15 minutes left, the score was still close at 1-0. But St. Mary's was able to put on a late-game offensive surge and score four more goals in the closing minutes to hand the team its second loss in as many games. 
The A team was idle this week. 
lq 


APRING SEMESTER 
SPRING SEMESTER 

INFORMATION NIGHT WED., SEPT 29 7pm HAYES-HEALY 124 
..~.-an...-IIHiftiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHIIIIIIHiftHIHIIHIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIH•-HHII_H....HIIIIIIIIn...,_.............,,...,,........, ...., ....,,_...,,--""' 
1-Thursday is Tankard Night in the Terrace Lounge at the South Bend Marriott! South Bend's largest 34 oz. tankard of beer i~ only 
$4.00 
and YOU KEEP THE SOUVENIR GLASS TANKARD! Refills every weekday from 4 -7 p.m. (on Thursdays until closing) are just $2.00! 
/·f 
-J

~ The Place to Be! 1~.!3 N. St. Joseph St., South Bend (219) 234-2000 
~ 
... i 
., . 
_j 
.. 
The Observer Wednesday,September29, 1982-page 14 

-~-~---~ 
Owners unfair 
Ruling favqrs NFL players 

WASHINGTON (AP) -A labor law judge yesterday ruled in favor of the National Football League Players Association in its effort to force the NFL to open some of its records to union negotiators seeking a new contract. 
Administrative Law Judge Julius Cohn held that the NFL Management
' 
Council, the league's bargaining
t 
agent, had violated the National Labor Relations Act by refusing to furnish the players' union wi.th in­dividual player contracts and the 
! r 
non-monetary provisions of TV and network radio contracts. The 14-page ruling stems from three days of hearings that Cohn 
r held in June, approximately three weeks before the players' associa­tion contract with the NFL expired. 
In ruling that the league has vi­olated the law, Cohn thus upheld the player association's unfair labor practice charge and has recom­mended to the full five-member Na­tional Labor Relations Board that the league be ordered to turn over the documents to the union. 
The decision by Cohn maybe ap­pealed by management to the full NLRB for review and a final decision. 
.,· 
The league's 1,500 players struck the NFL on Sept. 21, claiming the owners' failure to bargain in good faith had forced the strike. 
"It's only a recommendation. The board didn't seek an order to turn over the financial arrangements in the television t contact that players sought. Certainly, that's the major thing the players were after," said Jim Miller, a spokesman for the NFL Management Council, ' which handles the league's negotiations with the union. "These things are routinely overruled all the time. We feel confident it will be overruled this time. 
"This is not such a major thing. The timing seems bad because we are ready to go into another negotiating session. The players al­ready have examined playet con­tracts, which they've been given the right to see again by the board." 
But Ed Garvey, executive director of the NFLPA, felt it was a significant decision. 
"We were extremely pleased," Garvey said ofthe decision. 
"It's important because we are alleging that this is an unfair labor practice strike and we think this is 

Date Wednesday Sept. 29 Presented by The B.D. Marketing Club T1me 7:80pm Location Bm. 1II Hayes-Healy Otr. 

Milwaukee, Wisconsin 
L___ 
the first step in proving this allega­
tion. It's a nice, clear signal to all the 
owners that this is a serious step 
toward establishing this as an unfair 
labor practice strike," Garvey said. 
Garvey noted that under federal 
labor law, management may not 
replace employees whose strike 
have been declared the result of an 
unfair labor practice by their 
employers 

Negotiations on a new collective 
bargaining agreement are scheduled 
t resume in Washington, D.C. on 
tomorrow afternoon. 

To date, 14 regular season games 
have been wiped out by the strike, 
the first in-season walkout in the 
league's history. 

"It is well settled that the duty of 
an employer to bargain in good faith 
includes the obligation to disclose 
to its employees' collective bargain­
ing representative data that are 
relevant and reasonably necessary 
to its role as bargaining agent," Cohn 
said in the 14-page decision. 

The league's 1,500 players struck the NFL on Sept. 21, claiming the owners' failure to bargain in good faith had forced the strike. 
Negotiations on a new collective bargaining agreement are scheduled to resume in Washington, D.C. tomorrow afternoon. 
To date, 14 regular season games have been wiped out by the strike, the first in-season walkout in the league's history. 
In his decision, Cohn noted that 
Ed Garvey, executive director ofthe 
NFLPA, had writtenJack Donlan, the 
owners' chiefnegotiator, on May 13, 
1981, aking for the information on 
player contracts and pacts the 
league has with the commercial 
television networks. 

" ... It is clear that this informa­
tion with respect to employees 
wages is presumptively relevant and 
therefore specific relevance need 
not be shown," Cohn said. 

The judge noted that the league's 
principal argument in withholding 
the documents is that the union had 
waived its rights to obtain copies, 
SMCBelles shutout Manchester 

By MARY-ALICE O'GRADY 
Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's Tennis Belles have done it again. They had an easy victory yesterday against Manches­ter College, winning 9-0. The team switched the usual roster just a little to give all members of the team a chance to play. 
Heather Temofew, at first singles, defeated Celena Crume 6-2, 6-1. Christen Beck, at second singles, defeated Wendy Hilligoss 6-1, 6-0. Kim Kaigi, at third singles, won 6-I, 6-3 over Janice Stryker. Allison Pel­lar, at fourth singles, beat Tracy Price 6-1,6-3. Maureen La Fountain, at fifth singles, beat Christy Crogan 6-0, 6-7, 6-0. Freshman Karie Casey hung onto a three-set match to defeat Cindy Petry 2-6, 6-4, 7-5. Coach Killeen was pleased at her fine co t meback. 
The doubles teams were also vic­torious. The first doubles team ofBe­ck and Pellar defeated Crume and Hilligross 7-5, 6-3. Temofew and Kaigi, playing second doubles, defeated Strycker and Price 6-1, 6-3. Diane Schnell and Michelle Spinoza, playing third doubles in their first match ofthe season, were victorious over Crogan and Petry 6-1, 7-5. 
Coach Killeen was pleased with the girls' playing and is looking for­ward to the match today against Taylor University in Uplands, In­diana at 5 pm. 

Ihe~IYer========================================== 
T0 d~x=============w=e=d=n=e=s=d=ay='=s=e=p=te=m=b=e=r=2=9='=1=9=8=2==p=a=g=e=J=5 

Doonesbucy 



Spike's World 
~------------~----~ 
NORTH 
5:., Sl f', 




Jeb Cashin 
NAME ..... (.!H ... l LIVE 
T.J. Wrobel 
46 Cummerbund 24 Wet 47 To a higher 25 Island place dance 50 Civil War 26 ZOQ animal battle site 27 "-a Night· 54 Genealogl· ingale" 
cal chart 28 French 57 Sousaphone income 58 To shelter 29 Find out 59 Avid 30 "Ave-" 60 Abound 31 Not yet 61 Orange peel considered 62 Legend 32 En -(In 63 Bone: comb. a body) 
form 34 Midwest metropolis 
DOWN 35 Somewhat 1 Food fish slowly, 2 Dismounted in music 3 Sandwich 37 Sufficient, 
store old style 4 Free from 38 Ankles blame 43 Actor Grey5 European 44 Hash house 
capital 45 Likecol· 6 Eskimo boat lege walls 7 Pink 46 Show 8 Circle part contempt 9 Tolstoy 47 Remotely 
10 Plants, 48 Island collec· near Java tively 49 Foreboding 
11 Gas: comb. 50 Jason's form ship 12 City in 51 Calendar 
France abbr. 13 Whirlpool 52 Encourage 19 Told tales 53 "Auntie-" 21 Interrogate 55 Affirmative 
at length 56 Tit for-


ACROSS 24 Flightless 1 Ordered bird 5 Large 26 Oppressive· 
painting ly hot 10 Countenance 29 Extol' 14 Author 30 Silent 
Haley 33 Paragon 
15 "To form-34 Eye: Fr. perfect 35 Singer Union" Cantrell 
16 Pewter 36 Royal ingredient attendant · 17 Structure 39 Diminutive 
for storage suffix 18 Stained 40 Not one 20 Flat-bodied 41 Zodiac sign 
fish 42 Caviar base 
22 Sardonic 43 Dewey or literary Barrymore style 44 Worker ant 
23 Estrada 45 Central ofTV state 
Tuesday's Solution 
Campus 
•3:25 
p.m. -Chern Engr. Graduate Seminar, "Carbon Dioxide Injection for Teniary Oil Recovery" Dr. David Tiffin, 303 Cushing Hall 

•3:30 
p.m.-Computer Minicourse, SAS Over· view, 115 Computing Center 

•3:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Detection and Charac· terization of Flaws by Ultrasonic Message", Prof. Jan D. Achenbach, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 

•4 
p.m. -Field Hockey, NO Women vs. Houghton College, Alumni Field 

•4:30 
p.m. Microbiology Seminar, "Anaerobic energy generation in Helminth Mitoc· hondria", Dr. Howard }. Sas, 278 Galvin Life Sciences •5:30p.m.-GetAquaintedPizzaParty,Meetat Main Circle, Sponsored by Sociology Club, Sl.OO 

•7 
p.m. -College Bowl, Carroll Hall SMC 

•7, 
9:15, & 11:30 p.m. -Film, "Jaws", Engineer· ing Auditorium, Sponsored by Student IEEE 

•7:30 
p.m. -Reflection%Action Meeting, of the Pax Christi Notre Dame, Basement ofthe Pres· bytery 

•7:30 
p.m. -Sailing and Seamenship Course, Madeleva Hall, Room 351, Sponsored by US Coast Guard Auxiliary 

•8 
p.m. -FLOC Lecture, "Farm Workers Struggle in the Midwest", Baldemare Velasquez, Library Auditorium, Sponsored by FLOC 

•8:15 
p.m. Lecture, "Perspectives on Socialism", Dr. G. Niemeyer, 115 O'Shaughnessy Hall 

•9 
p.m. -Co-recreational Volleyball, Angela Athletic Facility 


T.V. Tonight 
6 p.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 The MacNeiVLehrer Repon 
6:30p.m. 16 M•A•s•H• 22 Family Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 
7 p.m. 16 Real People 22 Seven Brides for Seven Brothers 
28  Tales  of  The  Gold  Monkey  
(premiere)  
34  Carol andJimmy  
8 p.m.  16  Facts of Uk  

22 CBS Wednesday Night Movie: "life of the Party: The Story of Beatrice" 28 The Fall Guy 8:30p.m. 16 Family Ties 34 War Requiem 
9 p.m. 16 Quincy 28 Dynasty 34 The Crisco Kid 
10 p.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 The Dick Cavett Show 
10:30 p.m. 16 Tonight Show 22 Archie Bunker's Place/CBS Late 
Movie: "Blume in Love" 28 ABC News Nightline 34 Captioned ABC News 
11 p.m. 28 Love Boat 
11:30 p.m. 16 Late Night with David Letterman 
, 
-
........ 
-
......... 
"' 

• 
-
The Daily Crossword 
13 

© 1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
........................................
~ 
..

i RUSH LOTTERY : 
ror ar 
• Sept. 30 7:30pm 
Three Times the Fun
i Lafortune Ballroom 
vety Wednesday Nite
:Get your tickets for the concert coming : to Notre Dame on Nov. 5. 
GtSenior 8Gt from 9:30 'tilll:OO
. •i,.Tickets are $10.50, $11_. 


Wednesday, September 29, 1982-page 16 
,r 
~ 
Faust makes offensive changes 
Pinkett, a 5-9, 170-pounder, is
By KELLY SULLIVAN their quarterback (John Leister) stronger than his vital statistics sug­
Sports Writer caused Notre Dame two years ago, gest -the Sterling, Va. native
and their receivers are probably the benches 395 pounds, more than any
After 1981 defeats at the hands of most talented group we'll face all oflinemen in his freshman class.
Michigan and Purdue, Gerry Faust year." 
"He's a fine prospect," praisedfigured to have little trouble getting The Irish secondary came under 
his team ready for its first two op­some criticism after allowing Faust, "and he's shown us some great signs at practice.·
ponents this season. Purdue 278 yards in the air last Sophomore fullback Mark Brooks
But Notre Dame's coach is making Saturday, but Faust doesn't feel it will also see duty at tailback, while
sure no one -including himself -was completely justified. classmate Chris Smith learns Brooks'
looks past Michigan State Saturday in "Our secondary did a good job position. Smith, who lettered at run­
spite oftheir winless record. against Purude. Some people don't "Somebody asked me if I thought feel that way, but I'd have to dis­
ning back last fall, requested a trial at 
our team was good enough right agree. Most of the passes they com­linebacker in the spring. "Chris asked us to move him back
now to beat the rest of the teams on pleted were to backs coming out of on offense last week," Faust ex­
our schedule," said Faust, "but to be the backfield -and we just missed honest, I couldn't-care less who tackles. Our problem was in our plained, "so we're going to put him at fullback since we lose both
we've got on the rest ofour schedule second line of defense, not our third." Sweeney and Moriarty next season.
-we've got MSU right now, that's all I know." In practice this week, the Irish 
Mark will help us out at tailback for "They scare me, they really do," will work a lot on one-on-one tack­
awhile. He already knows the of­fense, so he'll make the adjustment
he admitted at yesterday's press con­ling to alleviate that problem. But pretty easily."
ference. "I've said all along that something they can do nothing Senior Mike Shiner is back on the
they'd be one ofthe toughest teams about -the injury situation -will practice field after rebounding from
on ourschedule. I know they're very cause trouble for a while. arthroscopic knee surgery, but the
hungry for a win and we have to be Since Greg Bell will miss at least two-year starter on the offensive line 
mentally and physically ready." the next five weeks, Faust and his has to earn his spot all over again.
As he skimmed the Spartan's ros­staff have moved two freshmen -"We've got a guy (Mike Kelley)

ter, the statistics on MSU's kicking Allen Pinkett and Lester Flemons -doing a great job there right know,
game caught Faust's eye -their 
to No. 2 and 3 tailback, respectively. and it wouldn't be fair to just givepunter, Ralf Mojsiejenko, is avert ag­"We may not use Pinkett to the the job back to Mike," said Faust "If
ing better than 45 yards a boot, and 
extent we used Greg Bell, but he will Mike shows us that he's one of ourmade good on a 62-yard field goal definitely breathe Phil Carter," ex­five best linemen, we'll put him back
against Illinois earlier this year. plained Faust. in or we'll make a place for him." 
"I can't pronounce his name, but those statistics are enough for me," laughed Faust. "All I have to know is his number." 
Faust knows a lot about Michigan State because they remind him of last year's Irish -the Spartans have lost three straight games that could have been won with a break here or there. 
"They lost to 19th-ranked Illinois ( 2 3-16 ), but time ran out on them as they were about to score. They lost to 13th-ranked Ohio State ( 31-10 ), but the score was tied going into the fourth quarter. And they lost to 16th-ranked Miami (25-22), who got a touchdown with less than 30 seconds to go, and we all know how tough it is to play Miami down there. Michigan State is ready to jell, and I just hope they do it after we play them." 
Defensively, MSU's soundest department is its secondarv ­they've allowed just three TO passes in three games. "That s not many when you've played some great pas­sing teams like they have," Faust said. 
Offensively, the Spartans have the potential to be a great passing team, too. "We all remember the problems 


Gerry Faust announced changes at the tailbuck spot in the wake ofGreg Bell's injury• athis weeklv press conference yesterday. (Observer File Phot~) 
Irish dominate NCAAstat sheet 

CARTER ADVANCES -Against Purdue, tailback Phil Carter 
carried the ball 27 times for 155 yards and two touchdowns. This 
performance moved the senior tri-captain into eighth place on the 
NO career rushing list with 1,904 yards. Vagas Ferguson is the Irish 
leader in this department with 673 carries for 3472 yards. 
Carter returns to the scene of his finest Irish performance ever as 
the team travels to Michigan State's Spartan Stadium, where two 
years ago he carried the ball a record 40 times for 254 yards. The 
40th carry lost yardage and dropped Carter below the single game 
record of255 yards. On the same play Carter suffered a severe thigh 
bruise which limited his action for over a month. 
CAMPBELL PERFORMS -Purdue's quarterback Scott Campbell has done exceptionallywell against Notre Dame. In three games the junior has completed S3 of 89 passes for 702 yards and four touch­downs, despite losing two ofthe three games played. 
DEFENSE DELIVERS -The Notre Dame defense held Purdue to a measly net total of 11 yards rushing after holding Michigan to just 41 yards on the ground. That translates into a 26-yards-per-game average, and makes the Irish No. I in the nation in the latest NCAA rushing defense statistics. ND is 14th in total defense. 
GETTING THE TIME -Notre Dame's offensive line has been doing a number on its opposition this season. Quarterback Blair Kiel has been given the time to look for alternative receivers and has been completing his passes at 61 percent efficiencv. The team has rushed for 566 yards in two games, with much ofth~ credit going to the line ofLarry Williams, Tom Thayer, Mark Fischer, Randy Ellis and Mike Kelley. Games are won and lost in the trenches, and this unit is gaining the confidence and the consistency needed to win. 
AGA~NST THE SPARTANS-The Irish have only recently begun 
to dommate the Michigan State series, which dates back to 1897, by 
taking 12 ofthe last 13 ball games, to bring the series record 30-16-1. 
Currently the Irish are on a six-game winning streak, with their last 
loss to the Spartans in 1975 -a l 0-3 decision that marked the first 
defeat for then-new coach Dan Devine. 
Michigan State owns a home record against the Irish of 8-;-1, but 
Notre Dame has taken the last six contests played in Ea'>t Lansing, last 
losing i!l 1968, 21-1 7. 

STRENGTH OF SCHEDULE -Notre Dame's current schedule is 
ranked the third toughest in the nation by the NCAA. The NCAA 
rates schedules based on team records from last season. Only Florida 
State and Utah have more difficult schedules. 
Michigan State's schedule is no easy path in itself. The Spartans are 
playing their fourth game this season against an AP Top Twenty op­
ponent. They have suffered losses at the hands of Illinois, Ohio State 
and Miami coming into this week's game with the Irish. 
Fdur NO opponents appear in this week's poll. They are Pitt, Penn 
State, Miami and Southern Cal. 
SECONDARY WOES-For the third week the Notre Dame secon­
dary will be severely tested by a good quarterback. Spartan quarter­
back John Leister has completed 40 throws in 97 attempts this 
season for 538 yards. His primary receiver has been Otis Grant, who 
has 14 catches for 268 yu.rds and two touchdowns. 
Leister threw for 204 yards against the Irish in 1980, the last time 
the two teams met in East Lansing. On that day, NO escaped with a 
26-21 victory, but the outcome was in doubt until the final gun as 25 
points went up onto the scoreboard in the final 10 minutes ofplay. 
Michigan State's ground game will also test the Irish defense as 
senior Tony Ellis enters Saturday's game with 197 yards on 39 
carries. Ellis is backed up by sophomore Aaron Roberts who has 100 
yards on 30 carries despite missing la'it week's game with sore ribs. 
GETTING THE FIRST -The Notre Dame offense has been converting on third down this year at 39 percent efficiencv -as compared to just 29 percent la-;t season. The Irish have made 4o first downs already this sea.,on after making only 177 in 1 I games last fall. 
BY THE NUMBERS-Notre Dame holds a prominent place in this week's NCAA stats: 
•Larry 
Moriarty is 11th in rushing at 110 yards per game, and ranks 19th in scoring at nine points per game. 

•Phil 
Carter is 16th in rushing at 105 yards per game. 

•Tony 
Hunter is II th in receiving at 5. 5 receptions per game. 

•Blair 
Kiel is tied for 20th in punting with a 4.2.5 yard average. 

• 
Mike Johnston is tied for 16th in field goals with 1.5 per game. 

•Notre 
Dame ranks 7th in rushing offense at 283 yards per game. 


BRAINS AND BRAWN-At Notre Dame 95 percent ofthe foot hall players obtain a degree. The 1977 National Championship team, which held its five-year reunion this past weekend, wa'> no different. At least seven members from that team are still proving that brains and football ability are not mutually exclusive. Ken MacAfee. andjoe Restic are in dental school, and john Leon, Dave Vinson. Ross Chris­tensen,JeffCrippin and Larry Hufford are in medical schooL 





