, .Labor Day -page 6 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER6, 1982
VOL. XVII, NO. 5 the independent ~tmknt new~paper ~crYing notre dame and ~aint mary·~ 

By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS 
The Israeli government on Sunday defied President Reagan's call for a freeze on jewish settlements in oc­cupied Arab territory and approved seven new ones for the West Bank, to be occupied by more than 2,000 families. 
Hours later, the Reagan ad­mlmstration issued a statement condemning the plan as "most un­welcome." 
"We cannot understand why, at a time when broader participation in the peace process is both critical and possible, Israel has elected to extend a pattern of activity which erodes the confidence of all, and most particularly the inhabitants of West Bank and Gaza for a just and fairly negotiated outcome to the peace process," it said. 
The sternly worded statement 
was issued in Santa Barbara, Calif., 
where Reagan is nearing the end ofa 
17-day vacation at his ranch. 
Israeli. officials insisted the deci­
sion had been on the Cabinet's 
agenda before Reagan unveiled his 
proposals Wednesday and was not 
Credit Union to update services 
Israelis defy Reagan's freeze 
'Books convey power' at library dedication 
connected to the American move. 
The new settlements were an­nounced after Prime Minister Menachem Begin wrote to Reagan that Israel stood "with total dedica­tion·· by its decision oflast Thursday 
to reject the U.S. initiative to link the West Bank of the Jordan River and Gaza Strip toJordan. 
About 1.3 million Palestinians live on the territories lsraet captured from Jordan and Egypt during the 
· 1967 Middle East War. 
A spokesman for the World Zionist Organization's settlement division, Ze'ev Ben-Yosef, said each new settlement on the West Bank 
By MARGARET FOSMOE 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor 
A plan by the Notre Dame Credit Union may signal the end to waiting in long Friday afternoon lines to cash a check for the weekend. 
The Notre Dame Credit Union ( NDCU) plans to have four automatic teller machines ( ATMs) in operation in South Bend by January I, including one on the Notre Dame campus. 
Two of the A TMs will by located 
at the 19033 Douglass Road main 
branch office and at the Circle 
shuttle shelter on campus. The sites 
of the other A TMs will be disclosed 
when plans are finalized; the third, 
later this week, and the final, within 
two weeks. 
Concerning the traditional long Friday afternoon lines of students, Ruth Kelly, treasurer-manager ofthe credit union said, "We anticipate they (the lines) will be drastically reduced" by the addition of the ATMs. 
The new service will be offered to all qualifying NDCU members. According to Kelly, pricing for the new service has not been been determined, so the member par­ticipation fee, if any, can not yet be 
United ~tates witt demand West Bank demilitarization 
WASHINGTON (AP) The United States will insist on a demilitarized West Bank that could not endanger Israel in the future, Secrtary of State George P. Shultz said Sunday. 
Shultz also said an Israeli plan to build five new settlements in the oc­cupied territories is "a very un­welcome development ... and it is not consistent with the objective of peace in the area." 
In an appearance on the CBS program "Face the Nation", Shultz made these other points: 
•Participation of jordan's King Hussein in President Reagan's new peace plan is vital to the proposal's 
success. 
•u.s. Marines assisting the evacuation of Palestinian guerrillas from Beirut probably will leave 
Lebanon  Sept.  I 0,  their  mission  
complete.  
•A  former  U.S.  diplomat  in  

Havana, Wayne Smith, was wrong in saying the United States has spurned opportunities for meaningful discus­sions with the government ofCuban President Fidel Castro. 
•If they can be found, the ad­ministration will consider "more ef­fective" means of pressuring the Soviet Union to relax its grip on Poland than trying to block con­struction of a natural gas pipeline to Europe. 
Shultz said he was sure Reagan will hold firmly to the pressure stragegy "implied by sanctions" against firms which supply materials for pipeline construction despite European displeasure with the Washington approach. 
But hinting at compromise, Shultz said, "Ifwe can work out things that are more effective and have all ofour Allies with us, we're certainly wil­ling to look at them." 
An Italian firm was added to the administration blacklist of com­panies defying its embargo against pipeline shipments late Saturday when a ship left Leghorn, Italy, carrying U.S. designed turbines made by Nuovo Pignone Engineer­ing Co. The turbines contained arts supplied by General Electric Co. 
disclosed. 
The A TMs will be able to perform 
all traditional transactions, includ­
ing deposits, transfers, withdrawls, 
and loan payments. The primary as­
set of the A TMs is that they provide 
24-hour banking service, seven days 
a week. 
Operating under the trade name "the Exchange," the ATMs are the result ofthe credit union's affiliation with Automatic Data Processing, a national banking network, presently endorsed by credit unions in 30 
states. 
The NDCU was the first credit uni­on in the state of Indiana to join the network. 
A small pilot group, including NDCU employees and members of the Board of Directors, will test the A TMs in December. The service will become available to all members beginning in January. 
The NDCU also has a signed agree­ment with American Express, Visa, and Mastercard allowing cardhold­ing NDCU members to use those cards in the machines. 
Kelly expects NDCU membership 
to increase with the arrival of the 
A TMs. She pointed out the con­
venience of the national network 
with respect to the widespread 
Notre Dame/Saint Mary's alumni 
community. "Our goal is, once you 
come to Notre Dame or Saint 
Mary's . you establish your first 
financial institution . . (and) 
anywhere you go in the United 
States, and anywhere you see the 
("Exchange") machine, you can use 
it," she said. 
The NDCU currently has ap­
proximately 25,500 members and 
assets totalling over S2H million. 
The ATMs are the result of over a 
year of research by the NDCU. The 
Diebold model was finally decided 
on, with a cost ranging from s32,000 
to S40,000, including security 
equipment. 
Kelly says she anticipates several 
local banks joining "the Exchange" 
in the near future. 
By MARGARET FOSMOE 
Saint Mary•'s Executiz'e Editor 
The significance of libraries throughout history was the focus of Dr. Elizabeth Kennan's address at the Cushwa-Leighton Library dedication ceremony Friday. 
Kennan, President of Mount Holyoke College, received an honorary Doctor of Letters degree at the dedication, which marked the official opening of the new S7 mil­lion facility at Saint Mary's. 
Em-phasizing that "books convey power," Kennan said that people have long been willing to die to maintain that power. 
Since the twelfth century, libraries have been the very basis of the progress of civilization, accord­ing to Kennan. "Libraries both create culture as well as transmit it," she said. 
Kennan urged the wise use of the new Cushwa-Leighton Library, describing it as a "profound gift of whkh we must make profound use." 
Citation~ , for the President's Medal were also made at the ceremony. Recipients included Mar­garet Hall Cushwa and Mary Lou Morris Leighton, both longtime sup­
· 
would be populated by 300 famlies. 
He also said the Cabinet commit­tee on settlements, which decided on the latest move, resolved that an eighth settlement, previously ap­proved for the Gaza Strip, would be filled by 90 Israeli families who lived in the Sinai town ofYamit until Israel turned over the territory to Egypt last April. Israel withdrew from Egypt's Sinai Peninsula under terms ofthe Camp David peace accords. 
Ben-Yosef said three of the new West Bank settlements would be military outposts manned by farmer-
See GAZA, page 4 
porters ofthe College, for whom the library was named. Also receiving the President's Medal wa.-; Sister Rita Claire Lyons, who served as Saint Mary's head librarian from 193H to 1976. 
Father William E. McManus, Bis­hop of the Fort Wayne-South Bend Diocese, blessed the building during the dedication ceremony. 
The preselnation of the library 
was made by Evans Wollen, head the 
the Indianapolis firm that designed 
the Cushwa-Leighton Library. 
College President john M. Duggan 
and Sister Mary jane Honan, chair­
man of the Board of Regents, made 
the honorary acceptance. 
Duggan described the ceremony 
as "the ritual which makes real for us 
what for so long has been a dream." 
The program also included 
remarks from William A. Hickey, 
vice president and dean of faculty; 
Sister Bernice Hollenhorst, library 
director; Margaret Cavanaugh, 
faculty assembly chairperson; Alana 
Rosshirt, president of the alumnae 
association; and Kathleen Murphy, 
student body president. 
The dedication ceremony marked the end of seven years of planning and construction for the facility. 


Monday, September 6, 1982 -page 2
NewsBrieb 
By The ( Jhsert•er and lbe Associated Press 
A traffic lightat the intersection of Notre Dame and An­
gela Avenues was damaged early Friday morning when struck by a 
car. Mary F. Norris, 25, of South Bend, was proceeding west on An­
gela Avenue at approximately 4:30a.m. when she lost control ofher 
1973 Chevrolet on the curve before the intersection and collided 
with the traffic signal. According to a report of the South Bend 
Department ofTraffic and Lighting, a new pole was to be set Friday 
afternoon. Normal functioning of the traffic light was expected for 
noon the following day. According to Notre Dame's Security Direc­
tor Glenn L. Terry, there were no witnesses to the accident and 
Norris did not request medical attention. -Observer 
After monthS Of threats, Poland's 8-month-old 
martial law regime appears to be moving hard against dissenters. It 
has initiated charges oftreason against four ofPoland's leading intel­
lectuals and some obserV'ers say it may be on the verge ofoutlawing 
Solidarity. Authorities have not set trials for the dissidents and the 
once powerful Solidarity are only under suspension. But the military 
government led by Gen. Wojciech)aruzelski has ruled out talks with 
former Solidarity leaders and seems determined to prevent a 
reawakening of national labor unionism. The tougher line comes 
after protests, some ofthem violent, that swept the nation last Tues­
day on the second anniversary of the founding of Solidarity as the 
Soviet bloc's only independent labor union. Four protesters were 
killed, more than WO civilians and security officers were injured, 
and some 4,000 people were arrested in 54 towns and cities, accord· 
ing to official reports. -AP 
Members of the Louisville, Nebraska Faith Baptist Church plan to continue operating the illegal Christian school that landed their pastor in jail, the assistant pastor says. The Rev. Everett Sileven was arrested Friday to serve the final 3 months of a four-month jail term for violating a court order that the non-accredited Faith Chris­tian School be closed. Sympathizers vowed to maintain a round-the· clock vigil outside the Cass County Jail. Classes will continue anyway, assistant pastor Phil Schmidt said. "This school will be here today, tomorrow, five years from now," Schmidt said. Contrary to earlier reports that the school would begin the fall semester Tues­day, classes have resumed, Schmidt said. Contempt charges might be filed against teachers or parents of students at the school, Cass County Attorney Ron Moravec said. "If the school stays open, we'll bring the responsible parties to court," Moravec said. Sileven was arrested by Cass County Sheriff Fred Tesch Friday as the pastor con­ducted a singing session with children in the church. -AP 
Communist Party ChairmanHu Yaobang has 
given party members who oppose China's economic modernization program four years to reform or leave the party, the official Xinhua news agency said Sunday. Hu announced a "rectification campaign," aimed at dissidents and corrupt or incompetent party members, which he said was essential for the party's survival, according to Xinhua. It said that in a speech at the opening session Wednesday of the Communist Party's 12th National Congress, Hu also said that under a new party constitution the top leader will no longer be called "chairman." That title is associated with the late Chairman Mao Tse-tung, whose policies have been cast aside by the new leadership. -AP 
Eight Israeli soldiers disappeared from a forward observation post Saturday and apparently were abducted to Syrian­held Lebanon, the military command said Sunday. In Damascus, a Syrian military command spokesman said three Israeli soldiers were killed and three wounded during a skirmish between Israeli and Syrian troops. The spokesman said one Syrian soldier was killed and three wounded before the "enemy patrol withdrew." He added the Israelis were trying to reconnoiter Syrian emplacements when the shooting started. The Israeli military command said the Internation­al Red Cross was asked to investigate whether the troops were ab­ducted by Syrian forces and to locate them. a communique said. It said the disappearance was discovered Saturday after the army lost contact with a forward observation post north of Bhamdoun in central Lebanon. where Israeli and Syrian forces face each other across a tense cease-fire line. The post was empty and trackers t()Und footprints of the missing soldiers and their apparent abductors leading into Syrian-held territory, it said. -AP 
The U.N. Command said Sunday state­
ments attributed by North Korea to an American soldier quoted as saying he defected "must be considered suspect." "The language is stilted and totally unlike a Westerner's speaking style, particularly that ofa U.S. Army soldier." said a spokesman for the command. who declined to be identified. "It should be noted also that the press conference touched on every propaganda theme currently being voiced by North Korea." Pfc. Joseph T. White of St. Louis, Mo., was reported missing Aug. 28 in the demilitarized zone between South and North Korea. The North Koreans said he had asked for political asylum, and on Saturday, the Korean Central News Agency broadcast what it said were comments by White at a news conference in Pyon­gyang, the North Korean capital. It quoted White as saying, "Nobody instigated me to come to North Korea. I sought a political refuge not 
by any passing emotion, but by my deep emotion." The U.N. Com­mand spokesman said North Korea has yet to respond to several requests for a face-to-face meeting with White. -AP 
Mostly cloudy Labor Day with a 4o percent 
chance of thundershowers. Highs in the upper 70s to near 80. Mon­day night and Tuesday, there's a 50 percent chance ofshowers. Lows Monday night in the upper 50s. Highs Tuesday in the mid to upper 70s. -AP 
The saga of S~nt Michael's 

A year ago last night, I dropped my first bundle down the laundry chute. 
My roommate was next. He paused for a second, made the sign of the cross, and let it go. "Did you bless your bundle?" he asked dryly. "It might not come back." 
Oh, no. I felt like) forgot the stamp on a letter. 
Now, a year later, my roommate and I have better feelings about the laundry. Last Thlllrsday, Laundry Director Norm Muller took us on a tour of the new, improved Saint Michael's Laundry, snuggled beneath the Dome next to the Grotto. 
Things are looking pretty bright down there. 
A new computer system to keep track of students' bills has eliminated the S2.60 ceiling and a lot offrustra­tion. A washing and drying system featuring the latest technology increases efficiency and streamlines as· sembly. And if that isn't enough (and gosh darn don't you think it ought to be), a new steam system has cut costs and made the once-blistering washing area quite a bit cooler. 
Muller is happy. The employees are happy. Now they're hoping the students will be happy. 
I, for one, am happy about the improvements. The most immediate benefit of the new Alpha Micro com­puter system (which, by the way, is an independent sys­tem) is tht: elimination of the $2.60 per week limit. 
Male students used to pay the laundry fee at the begin­ning of the year and then be allotted 52.60 a week. Ifyou went over the limit, you had to pay more. If you were below too bad. The laundry did allow students to charge overruns on their accounts unless of course the overrun was less than 50 
· cents. That meant paying 
cash, or borrowing a couple 
of dimes from the guy next 
in line.  
Thank  God  for  little  
favors.  Now  with  a  com­ _....,_  _...:.....__  

puter keeping track of student bills, students will just pick up their bundles, flash their laundry card, and hit the road. The bills will be added up through the semes­ter and deducted from the laundry fee. Any overruns will be charged later on one bill at one time. 
"I really want to get rid of the 2 to 4 o'clock line out there," says Muller, a retired Air Force colonel and en­gineer who knows the value ofsimplicity. "It's going to be a while before all the minor errors are fixed." 
Muller is perhaps more excited about the other use for his computer. The latest in washing machine equip­ment arrived this summer and requires a computer sys­tem to oversee its operation. 
Clothes travel through a 40-foot tunnel, passing through each of nine washing modules. The computer knows what type of fabric is in which module and ar­ranges for the: proper recipe ofchemicals, temperature, and timing. 
The other half of the new machine, which will be installed October break, t"t-atures a conveyer belt/dryer system that can dry some fabrics in half the time. The 
THE: TYPICAL NA\JY MAN'~ LOCKE:R. 
We know home·!> o 
hard place ta leave. [lut tf you thtnk 11 looks good. JUSt won till you hove been around after you've sk1ed 1n the Alp~'-f•shed 1n New Zealand. htked tn 5po•n and gone swtmming 1n the Aegeol'l OS 0 Navy offKef We really aren't k•ddtng when we say. "Jo•n the Navy and 
see the world" 
Inside Monday 
conveyer takes a certain type of clothing to the right dryer whose settings have already been adjusted by the computer; a new steam system, with updated link col­lectors, also cuts drying time. 
"It really is a neat little system," Muller says. "Quite a clever machine." 
Muller added that the new equipment will pay for itself in three to four years. By attrition, Muller will be able to reduce his work force but keep the same speed. 
And he can thank his new little Alpha Micro. 
Maybe some ofyou can't get too excited about all the laundry renovations. But in an age of b~ureaucr;itic nightmares, it's nice to know that somewhere red tape is being cut. 
computer not only increases efficiency but also provides ready data on how many students use the laundry and how often. Get­ting those statistics is neces­sary before anyone starts tossing around the idea ofan optional laundry. 
The computer is some­thing Muller has wanted for a long time. Last year, when asked by The Observer, Vice President for Business Af­fairs Thomas Mason said that such a computer wasn't his highest priority. 
"Is it worth putting 4000 students on a computer just to keep track if they're over or under (the S2.60 limit)?" Mason asked in the Nov. 23 Observer. "I could guarantee 
you that the costs would outweigh the benefits." I guess Mason changed his mind. I'm glad he did. Muller has finally gotten what he's always wanted, 
and now the ball is in his court. And if his enthusiasm is any indication, the laundry will continue to improve. 
Muller has even put out an old-style washing machine for a suggestion box. "All we want now is a suggestion so we can answer it." 
What a nice attitude. Thank God for little favors. 
The t'iews expressed in the Inside column are the views of the author, and do not necessari(y represent the views ofThe Observer or its editorial board. 

~*********************************** 

The Observer Monday, September 6, 1982 -page 3 
More efficient 
Laundry becom.es cotnputerized 
By MARK BOENNIGHAUSEN and outdated equipment. The new arise, and said, "we will be watchmg AND BOB VONDERHEIDI:. tunnd-like washer can do 100 for billing mistakes all through the StaffReporters pounds of laundry ·every three first semester." Muller added that minutes, while a new lint collecting not everyone there are adjustments 
Thanks to a new <..:omputer system system improves drying time on to make, Muller believes most ofthe at Saint Michat>l's Laundry, male most articles by 30 to 40 percent. workers are happy with the ne:w sys­Notre Dame students will no longer Muller said, for example, that he can tem. have to worry about putting exactly now dry socks in 14 minutes instead One reason for thb could be the !2.60 worth of clothes in their of30. improved workmg conditions. The weekly bundle-;. temperature in the buildings, which
Bob Watkins, Director of Support
' Laundry Director Norm Muller during the summer often reach 110
Services, said, "The updating of the 
announced that beginning this year, degrees, i~ noticeably cooler this
equipment is long overdue. It 
<;tudents will pa~ a fee of H 1.60 at year because of an improved steam
should have been done I 0 to 12 
the stan of eacl· ~emester. with system.
years ago. 
\H-ckly laundr) d1arges subtracted Muller said the new machines from that initial tn~. Muller said the new equipment comprise a ''pretty neat little sys­In addition, laundn cards will no tem." Future improvements will be
will increase efficiency. "I would longer be punched when student~ like to get (the laundry) back one put on the back burner, he said, until pr<..:k-up their hunok~ each week A the he sees how "it all blends togeth­
dav earlier." he said. Muller added, 

ho'wever, that he was going to take a
student will ~H•1piy 5-how hi~ card to er.·; 
"wait and see attitude beforethe laundry worker when he rKb changing any production schecll.lles,
up hi~ bundk M :~ller hope1. that this 
saying, "J would hate to go too fastnew proceduu.· u. iil )':et rid of somt: and then make a mistake."
ofthe "'2·4 o\·I,Jd line'>." 
The nev. computer has enabled The new system, which is onlv the installauui> qf 1toe latest st' h: of half delivered, required a capital washmg m:•cloine, "hich relit·:-on a outlay by the University but should computer for .tl ( <.~r&te wa..-.h s<.·t­pa) for itself in threr. to four rears. ring'-. :\to~t of the savings will result from 
.\iulkr .;,;o,l •ht llt'W washmg ~v,. ,,nnuon of (he work force. '>.~uller H'rn \\';c"-pt'rc!~:l't'<l to rt:"place worn expects only minor problems to 

SM(~ lJoarddiscusses ·~JI)Cc~rrling acti,rities 
:~i 1.•r b:I'Om !.< .\1-.:n~, .:•r··· ,,,, 
. ~·· :, ~·\~· ·~,;iH ht~ I ~t'PJtt!'·! ;•t"t::t~ 
l ~~· "••'l~~( ["; !'' I :;•,•, \'' •. !tl' 

..•lt){' ;:-•p '.,~ltun.ia,·:tre ·•lan11t··· ir,r 
'.~,.,,, o,thkth. hulity wrH l)e rrw jur11or.'. :tn:ordin~ w das:; prt:sitkm 
-;itc· tur :;ainl '\.ta~ ·~ '\Uivitie~ :\light Denist: Drake. The juninr cla;,s also is 
Jt H:OO Tunda,· evening. All Saint 5ponsoring a car wash noon Sunday 
\1arr's clubs and organizations will at the Rosel.md and AI \'ddman's 
lx rcprt:~ented to provide informa­Standard Stations on route ·'I 
tion for any interested ~tudent. · Cara Hageman said that the soph­
The Student Government will omore class is planning a marshmel continue to provide a check cashing low roast with sophomore Notre servi(:e in the dining hall during the Dame women for October -~· A mass dinner hours every Saturday, except also is planned. on home football game Saturdays. Holy Cross Hall president Trish The service, which will begin this Sigler reported tentative plans for a Saturday, has a ten dollar limit with a trip to the dunes and a freshman din­25 cent check cashing charge. ncr. Holy Cross Week will begin Sep-
The class and hall presidents tember 26. · 
reported their activities at the Board Flag football will be starting soon 
ofGovernance meeting. Senior class for McCandless Hall residents, 
president Beth Bunker said that the according to president Michelle 
senior class is sponsoring an ice Manion. Plans also are being made 
cream canoe sundae for all students for the election ofsection leaders. 
NDprofessorplans Londonguide book 
ByJERRYWHOOLEY to two and three man teams and sent News Staff them into the city to gather their in­formation. Each team was assigned a 
specific structure. Fern aided theAn information guidebook students with advice as well as withcompiled by members of last year's his photographic contributions.
London studies program is in its ear­
ly planning stages. In 1666 a fire which leveled much 
Professor of Art Thomas Fern, of London claimed least 80 of these coordinator of the undertaking, said churches. Shortly afterward, ar­the book is intended to provide in­chitect Christopher Wren began the formation concerning the many 
tremendous undertaking of rebuild­small parish churches contained ing the churches. From the originalthroughout the city of London. The 80, 57 were rebuilt. 30 remain
book will include the locations, photographs, and brief architectural standing today. These 30 provide histories of the respective buildings. the subject matter for the tourist 
Fern organized his 24 students in-guidebook. 
ND-SMC Communications and Theatre Presents ·the monday night I film series TONIGHT 
The o ....... 1(1926> Buster Keaton USA 8 & W. S1tent wlmustcat score. 84 mm Keaton s character and Ollgmahty shme 1n tr11s comedy ctass'c based on an actual event a! !he C1v1l War F11moe1 on rne narrow gauoe rattroads of Oregon ana us1ng onty 50 1111e cards the p1cture tlas the too« ol Mat· thew Brady tintypes brought to hie 
7pm Annenberg Aud., Snite Museum. 
~SD.-a.~SD-.a..a-.~Admission$2 


,•,..;, ~~~~'' ~.•••~ •l.d'o :.•"> ,";! .-.,·::;·. 
~ ' ' '"'•aS", H" ·•~·OCI 
•\o:.".... 'v"-./a~P r"e 1'/el\ {;" r;rn.d' "'<1 rF' ;•, •.' ;-;.. ' ': r6as•C'-·.·1 • ",.-~:~..c•e"' r-oe Depal\'l"IE.'"! o! Cc.miT'ur... <1''0'" ana T••ea;rL 
:-!.,:.>.,.. "':" ···!.! Annen berg Auditorium, The Snlte Museum ol ~rt. ···~:·tt Dame :::>~mcus '3: '--~;:: ~ 'TI • _tliP.S:;. ,:"'(''h'·Se nat~ I 
•"<), -•'.!-_ t..;;. <.<, o·~~ 'i£' '-':_: Ser·es ':' ::kel An~· 2~ totms frc-r. nue& ~er:es !.~:.: . • ;.....,., · '; .,,.,i :•o'l' r'lree St"•es ~22 ·_.t. 
Se~.>ternb!!• 1, 
"'ovember i 
The General ''-::._r, 
The Big Sleep ,''''ol 
9h5.1o;;• "~<1ti::o :...;:,r:. 8 8. W Sd~nt wtrnus,cal score f\4 m:·~ 
HOW<1'r1 Hav..kS USA 8 6. W '14 rr,on K.-.<~tc,., ~ -·:araPI?' ar10 or·g·na111y sn•ne If' th•S 'omejy ctasstc ~a~ea n" T'115 Ray , ~:ftd Cfidnd'er rn¥stery linKS numohrP.'f Bogar• and La.... rel" cw at' 1..;: ~\·:·-·vi :ne r -~~· Wa1 j:.tlmea on ll";e narrc:ow gauge •am:.ads 
Bacau •n ,,.,,. 0•1,~·· ~·~~~lr·c of theu sere\>!' ::ouptwgs Bogart .._, Df'"a'te ol ,-·~·~·"· .,..i u~g r:-•1) :>2 Pll~t carCis the PICIUit> t.as l'le roow ot Mat· 
eye Pn•IIP Martowe UdCJII ~. a •aov w•tn St'Crets tnew B•au,.. l•nr..r::l:'~ Ur•JUgr.t to niE> 
November 8 SeptemOer 1.1 
The Long Goodbye '''31Metropolis , , 92bl Rober I Altf'Tlan USA color c1nemascape 11 2 mm Fr1tz Long Germa~.,. 8 & W S11ent wunuS1cat scare 93 m.n Ra.,..mond Cnandter s P"H•D Mano.... e-d srumm•11g anget .... no •nvests me An etaaarate tuh,.,.st•c fantasy of a subter1anean factory ruled by sun·Dhnded s!:f>ets at los Angete!:. w•lh a •oma<lhc presence beComes T•tan~ l'etra,..eo by Hibots and save'J by tove cornb•11es v•s1ons of tne tess romant•c anJ rrote cyn1ca: when :1e •uns smack mto me 
t920s New Yor;.; C1t~ ~kytme w,,,., premon1h0ns oltota!ltar~an forcP ano p<;ycl'le:::IPIIC 60s m Allman s SODh•S!ICatP.d updat•ng olth•s llard·tlD•Ied IT'Ob v•OienCe saga at 1r1enoship love and betrayal 
Septembet 2D 
November 15 
Touch of Evil n958> El Dorado 1196'> Orson Welles. USA B & W 108 rnm 
Ho.• Ctrd hawks USA ector 126 rntn Set on the Me.oncan1Amer1can corder Toucn 1nveshgates tl'le crossmg at 
Jonn Wayne proves that IMh can 1nove mounr;;uns. bultl cant oeat a boundar1es between count11es races sexes-and fmaily belween •aw 
tas1er draw wrten ne ano Robert M•tchum rtwo ·l'las-t>eens'"l tom up and JUSttce Wehes casts h1mseJ1 as an overwetght cnocotate-adCICied w1th a youthh••• amateur IJames Caan) to ;jeleat tne outlaws make The police derect1ve who clashes w1!h a Mextcan pohce olf1C1a1 {Charlton 
world safe lor democracy ana e)lemp!11y 1=roles~tonahsm and mate Heston) over an mvest1gatton that d1srupts htS hOneymoon w1th tne sultry comradeshtp Janet Le1gh 
Tuesday. November 23 September 2 7 
Breathle•• 11 9591Maacullnelfemlnlne 11965! ..:ean-Luc Godard. France B & W 89 m1fl Jear.-Luc Godard France 8 & W 103 m1n 
In French w11h English Subtitles In French wm-English subtrttes 
One of the most tmportant of the lurr.s of thE' French New Wave Loosely based on two shell stones by Guy de MaupassaPt .. Le S1gne 
Brea1111ess rewrote the ~ram mar of !he cmema and established that the and La Femme de Paul Mil exammes the ferment at the Slxl!es. ex· 
...,anner tn wh1ch a story 15 told car. be more 1mportant th:· the story ptonng the react1ons ol youth to VIOlence. poht1cat protest. su1C1de. btrth 
1tsc:1 AI !he same ttme. the film rs a nomage to the Am• 3n gangster :omrot and au the other problems that plagued the era of Vtetnarn 
ltlrn. teaturu1g Jean-Paul Betmonao m t11s flfSl ,a·!lr role . •)aroc:Jy of 
Humphrey Bogart's anarchiC gangster
October 4 
Hie Girl Friday 11 940J Ncovember 29 Howard Hawks. USA. B & W. 9::! mtn Thit American Soldier 119701 Screwball comedy takes on breakneck speed when star reporter Ra1ne1 Werner Fassb1nder German¥ 8 & W. 80 mm Rosatmd Russell tnes to tam 1t out ol town to marry super-dull Aalpt1 In German w1th English sub!1tles 
Beuamy but her ed1tor-boss ano ex-husband Cary Grant knows she Fassbmder's auempt to recreate !he 1-jQdywood cmema 1n the Germany cant res1st a good lead. and hooks her on a aeath-house story that turns of the 70s IS 1ron,ca1ty representeo by !he doomed ellans of cheap Ger­11110 page-one matena1 
man punks to model themselves after Amencan him gangsters Sol! 
hats. while SUitS. ana ou1g1ng shoutoer hOlsters abound rn thiS mood· thtck homage to the Amencan cnme f1tm 
October 7J 
October (1928o 6 00 p m Serge1 E1senstetn. USSR B & W Stlent. 161 m1n 
December 6 Comm('moraling the 1Oth ann1versary of the 1 917 RevolutiOn. October tS An Autumn Afternoon (19621 the htm 1n wh1Ch Etsenstem most ngorously !allowed hrs own theones of YaSUJIIO Ozu. Japan. color 112 mrn 1ntetlt>wt~a1 montage Tne 111m tS JUShhabty famous tor sequences whiCh tn Japanese Wllh Enghsh subtrlles not .. r.~y .ncorporate 1mages of ObJects as metaphortcal elements but Ozu·s favonle plot-an Old man who must gtve up h1s daughter-occa­also .nfegrate the !lites mto a fatal dynam1c and plaStiC un1ty stons a medttarron on change and trad1t1on 1n postwar Japan executed 1n the dlshlled SlmphCity of Ozu·s tate style
October 18 
Stagecoach 11 9391 
NCJfli(f IY-IIt'IE/\fiiNf ;1Wkf'\
John Ford USA B & W 96 mm Prooabty the most celebrated Western of all 11me Ford's Stagecoach tS bolh an achon movte wttt1 a spectacular tndtan attack and gunhght. and 
C()IWHIJNIICAilii()N
a subtly underplayed exam1natton of soc1ety and CIVIhzat,on Foro gave John Wavne hiS fffst tmportant role as fhe htm·s outlaw-hero the Rtngo 
Kod 
iJllriiCAil~IC 

The Observer Monday, September 6, 1982 -page 4 
ND Activities Night 
.VOTE -Each group named has a table atActivities Night and is asked to begin setting up at 6.30 this evening at Stepan Center. In order to find each organization, it is important that this diagram be brought to Stepan Center. Activities Night will run from 7·II p. 
m. and is sponsored by the Freshman Orientation Committee. 
l. CILA 
2. 
Saint Joe's Medical Center 

3. 
Memorial Hospital Auxilary 

4. 
NISH 

5. 
American Red Cross 

6. 
American Cancer Society 

7. 
NSHP 

8. 
FLOC 

9. 
Special Education 

10. 
Head Start the

11. 
ND/SMC Council for Retarded 

12. 
Protective Services Board 

13. 
Logan Center 

14. 
Refugee Resettlement Program 

15. 
Bread for the World 

16. 
Primary Day School 

17. 
Children's Dispensary '18. Campus Scouts 


19. 
Big Brothers/Big Sisters 

20. 
Big Brothers of Saint Joe's County 

21. 
Fun and Learn 

22. 
Juvenile Correction Board 

23. 
MECHA 

24. 
World Hunger Coalition 

25. 
Water Polo Club 

26. 
Sailing Club 

27. 
Scuba Diving Club 

28. 
Dolphin Club 

29. 
ND Surfing Club 

30. 
ND Rowing Club 

31. 
ND Cycling Club 

32. 
ND/SMC Bicycle Club 

33. 
Women's Soccer Club 

34. 
Women's Track and Cross Country 

35. 
Women's Golf 

36. 
Women's Softball 

37. 
Women's Athletics 

38. 
ND/SMC Ski Team 

39. 
ND Ski Team 40.Judo Club 


41. 
Tae Kwon Do/Karate 

42. 
ND Martial Arts Association 

43. 
Ultimate Frisbee 

44. 
ND/SMC Gymnastics Club 

45. 
Men's Volleyball Club 

46. 
Boxing Club 

4
7. Fellowship ofChristian Athletes 

48. 
ND Amateur Radio Club 

49. 
Pep Rally Committee 

50. 
Student Managers Organization 


55. 
Pre-Professional Club 

56. 
Undergraduate Admissions Office 

57. 
L·S Society 

58. 
Shenanigans 

59. 
Thomas Moore Society 

60. 
Amnesty International 


,. 
llrmerty ofC. Jones 
(trhich isommandPerfo,.. 
out of bus. 711ance
Th lness)
• Rich ey Join 
• Sue o~::dens &
277-0734 e~o11 ~ir Rirha 

NEW HOURS: PERSONALIZED HAIR DESIGNS Monda th F 'd • for men and women 
Y ru ri ay 9-8 Visit Our Location at 417 Dixieway North Saturday 8-3 in Roseland across from Wendy's 
61. 
The Observer 

62. 
Student Union 

63. 
Student Government 

64. 
Scholastic Magazine 

65. 
The Dome 

66. 
The Nazz 

67. 
ND/SMC Gospel Choir 

68. 
CollegiateJazz Festival 

69. 
Saint Mary's Choir 

70. 
Film Club 

71. 
Circle K Club 

72. 
Knights ofColumbus 

73. 
International Students Organiza­tion 

74. 
ND Women's Caucus 

75. 
Abiogenesis Dance 

76. 
Pax Christi 

77. 
ND/SMC Young Democrats 

78. 
Democratic Socialist ofAmerica 


79 t . ND College Reps. 
80. 
ND Debate and Speech Council 

81. 
Competition Colorgaurd 

82. 
ND Bagpipes and Drums 

83. 
Neighborhood News 

84. 
Southhold Heritage Foundation 

85. 
Fountain View Place 

86. 
Canco Inc. 

87. 
Mental Health Association 

88. 
Alphi Phi Omega 

89. 
A-L Business Society 

90. 
ND Finance Clnb 

91. 
Marketing Club 

92. 
ND Accounting Association 

93. 
Management Club 

94. 
Psychology Club 

95. 
Sociology Club 

96. 
College Bowl 

97. 
Society of Women Engineers 

98. 
Joint Engineering Council 

99. 
ND Science Quarterly 

100. 
Black Grad Association 

101. 
BCAC 

102. 
Tour Guides 103.Justice and Peace Center 


105. 
Center for Experiental Learn­ing 

106. 
AIESEC 

107. 
Nuclear Freeze Drive 

108. 
Christian Life' Comm. 

109. 
People and Praise Club 

110. 
Campus Crusade for Christ 

111. 
Right to Life 

112. 
Connecticut Club 

113. 
Wisconsin Club 

1
14. Detroit Club 

115. 
Baltimore Club 116.Japan Club 


117. American-Lebanese Club 
.Now WitL
s,,R" 
II 
f" IChard's 
ro,. left t . 
0 
''9htJ 
Sue A1otth
Lour0 ews
8 
.Sue p Osore PouloOrport 

104 -111 
98-103
0112-117[ 
C"-1 ~ 
~
89-97 
~ 
~ \.I)
75-82 
c 
' 
83-88 [ 69-74 


61-68 
Information 
Entrance 
Stepan Center 
More layoffs 
UMWfat.:ing $10,OOOa day loss 
BECKLEY, W.Va. (AP) -The 
United Mine Workers union, faced 
with its largest payroll in history 
while dues collections are sliced by 
layoffs, is losing !10,000 a day, the 
union's secretary-treasurer says. 
Willard "Bill" Esselstyn, the No. 3 
officer in the UMW hierarchy, said 
expenditures for both July and 
August exceeded revenues by at 
least 5325,000. 
"For July and August we were 
about 650,000 in the hole," Es­
selstyn said. "After September, it will 
be around 5975,000 if everything 
holds true. 
"But I think it will be more be­
cause the layoffs haven't stopped. It 
will probably go over a million." 
Esselstyn blam·~d much ofthe uni· on's financial difficulty on massive coalfield unemployment. The uni­on's latest figures show 41,534 of the eligible workforce of 155,000 unemployed. 
Because of that, the union is taking in about 1400,000 less in dues each month than normal, Es­selstyn said. 
I 
-~~ 1 
In addition, Esselsytn said the uni­on's monthly payroll has increased from 5459,000 in November 1980 to 5860,000 last month. 
About 6,000 mine workers in In­diana belong to the UMW. 
The red ink doesn't indicate the 
union's actual financial status, Es­
selstyn said, because "we've still got 
a little bankroll to work on." 
Nevertheless, Esselstyn, who took 
office in 1977, called the union's 
inances "more dismal than I have 
ever seen it since I've been here." 
Esselstyn sad the union's budget 
committee is scheduled to present 
cost-cutting measures to UMW 
president Sam Church on Tuesday. 
Donald Mahone, Church's ex­
ecutive assistant and a member of 
the committee, declined to com­
ment on the proposals, saying they 
are "strictly an internal affair." 
Esselstyn said the budget commit­ltee's proposals probably will in­dude a reduction in the organizing department, which has grown from 60 to 100 members under Church. 
The union should consider cut­
. 

:tRefrig~a~ors 
dormroom:size students rates 
iCALL 
TAYLOR 
RENTAL 
277-2190'----­
1427N. Iro~wOQ(l ~ 
ting subsidies to districts, Esselstyn said, pointing out that one thirdof the union's 21 districts are being subsidized by the parent organiza­tion. 
"It doesn't make much sense to keep paying money out when your own house isn't in order," Esselstyn said. 
Esselstyn is running for reelection as an independent in the union's Nov. 9 election. 
I I I 
Gaza 
continuedfrom page I 
soldiers who would become civilian when they were financially sound. He said two ofthe three military out­posts already exist. 
Israel's settlement policy has moved more than 25,000 Jews into about 100 towns and villages in the West Bank and Gaza Strip in the 15 years since Israel captured the ter· ritories. 
In his three-page letter, made 
public after the regular Sunday 
Cabinet meeting, Begin chided 
Reagan for his proposals and com· 
plained that they were announced 
without consulting Israel. 
"You and I chose for the last two 
years to call our countries 'friends 
and allies'," wrote Begin. "Such 
being the case, a friend does not 
weaken his friend, an ally does not 
put his ally in jeopardy." 
1 Come Hear About
r.-----------,
1 I SHENANIGANSI 
I A new choral IIensemble featuring 1 song and dance· 
1 I Wed., 9pm 1 Crowley Recital Hall 1 More info. in 
I 
rrout~ley offi~~ 
...Y-IBIW 
---wr--•• 
---------~~-------­

The Observer Monday, September 6, 1982 -page 5 
Intruder shoots two children 

MUNCIE, Ind. (AP) -Muncie police say they think an intruder planned the Friday morning break-in at the home of a reserve police of­ficer, in which her two young sons were shot. 
"We're pretty sure that we have an intruder," said Detective Paul E. Cox. "I think it was planned. We don't know why the intruder was there. We feel there is a strong pos­sibility he was discovered by one of the boys." 
Kathy Sells, 32, reported the shootings early Friday. She told police she was awakened by several shots fired in the boys' bedroom and was struck on the head with a candlestick before tiring a shot at the intruder and passing out. 
Police disclosed Saturday what they called their "strongest piece of evidence·: -a message on a bedroom mirror, written in what ap­peared to be lipstick. The message said, "I took what you love most." 
Investigators took the mirror to 
the Indiana State Police crime 
Penthouse magazine 
Priest counsels young drug addicts 
laboratory in Indianapolis for analysis of the writing stJbstance used and the ha.ndwriting. 
"In the next few days, we plan to take handwriting samples from Mrs. Sells, her former husbands, family members and others," Cox said. 
Eddie Griffin, II, was listed in critical condition Sunday at Met­hodist Hospital in Indianapolis, but Cox said the boy was alert and sit­ting up Saturday afternoon. Dennis Sells, 7, was in serious condition Sunday at Ball Memorial Hospital here. Cox said Dennis got out of his ·bed and walked around Saturday. 
A police spokeswoman said 
detectives were unable to question Mrs. Sells and the boys Sunday as planned. She said Mrs. Sells remained under guard in In­dianapolis with Eddie, who hospital officials said was "not up to" questioning. Hospital spokesmen said Eddie still has a bullet lodged in his brain. 
Cox said police have questioned Mrs. Sells' two former husbands, Ed­ward Griffin Sr. and Kenny Sells. They also plan to talk to her brother, Mitchell Waters, who is serving a sentence in the Indiana State Prison at Michigan City for the I977 mur­der of a Muncie tire store manager. 

Visit Your New Neighborhood Store 
at 4 1 6 Howard St. We Hove More Than Milk 
NEW YORK (AP)-A priest who plans to make radio and television appearances in connection with a Penthouse article says his distaste for the skin magazine was overcome by his desire to reach youngsters hooked on drugs. 
"I think the clientele who reads Penthouse, the middle class, maybe it will move them to action," said the Rev. Coleman Costello, who runs a drug counseling program. "I found out through our exposure in the media in the past, what it does is motivate people to give us a call." 
The Queens priest said Saturday that he would make a series of ap­pearances Sept. I 3-I 7 to coincide with publication of an article about child drug abuse in Penthouse's Oc­tober issue. 
The article, "12 Years Old and Feeling No Pain," was written by Al­lan Sonnenschein. 
Did it bother Costello to cooperate with a magazine that features explicit photos of naked women in sexual poses? "Yeah," he aid, "to tell you the truth, it did." 
But he granted the interview and 
agreed to make the appearances be­
cause "I decided the issue (of child 
drug abuse) has been swept under 
the table. Not enough people know 
about drugs, what they're doing to 
kids. I have no objection about that 
article in a national magazine." 
Sy Presten, a publicist for Pent­house, said radio and television in­terviews were being arranged for Costello to talk about an "epidemic" ofchildhood drug abuse. 
Costello started his Queens Out­reach Program three years ago to counsel youngsters about the dan­gers of drug abuse. So far ..,,000 to 7,500 youngsters have sought aid, he said. 
"Kids come by word of mouth. We have a pretty good reputation on the street. Contldentiality is the key word. I think kids want to go to someone to talk about their problems without having it blabbed all over the street," said Costello, a burly 40-ytXir-old whom Penthouse 
ND-SMC Communications and Theatre Presents the monday night II film series TONIGHT 
Shadow of a Doubt :.····=··· . . .•.:. !••, : • . 
,!,•· to••''•"' ......... .. ,........ ··, '' •:,•." ·I''' '•I" "': ' '•I' ''• "'I~" 1 , ' : ! , : '"• ' ; ' " :• ' , .-.·:·.·· •i'•' ••• :•·""'""•1'•" ·•,· .:· ....... '• :•·' .' :"'''•I" .,,,, ,•';1'"'',•'' • "•I • ,•,• ;..,,,·I' 't''' '• 
9pm An'nenberg Aud., Snite Museum ll5s5D"""~5a"""~5D;sss5.D"5a.,.,:Admission $2 
Student PIQyets nnnounce 
OPEN AUDITIONS 
FOR 
****************************** 
• "A ffiAN FOR ALL SEASONS" ~ 
****************************** 
11 mnle roles-3 femnle roles 
Tuesdny, S, pt. 7 & Wednesdny, Sept. 8 
7:oopm Wnshington Hnll 
ALL ARE WELCOME 
L------------= 
describes as a contemporary edition 
of Father Flanagan, founder of Boys' 
Town. 
His program is funded by dona­
tions and a grant from the state Divi­
sion ofSubstance Abuse Services. 
"What he does is go out into the community and works with kids, particularly runaway kids, and tries to help them stay away from drugs or stay offdrugs," said Lynn Ansara, a spokeswoman for the state agency. "He does this most often when there is no one else to do it. It really is a marvelous program. He's very, very outgoing, a very loving person. It's a wonderful approach." 
Costello said that although he did not consult his church superiors about his planned appearances for Penthouse, he expects no reprimand. 
"All it was was an interview," he said. "The Holy Father himself ha.~ come out against drug abuse. I think the clergy is coming around and realizes it is a moral issue." 

GROUPS and ORGANIZATIONS 
with tables at ACTIVITIES NIGHT shouldbe there to set up by6:30pm, September6. 
t:heck Iayout for location oftable. 
l............, ..................................................., ......, ......, ..., ....,,......

~ 
1CLUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS!!!.! ACTIVITYFEE FUNDING  II  
·~  Applications for receiving StudentActivity Fee Funds  ~  
~  are now available in StudentActivities OffiCe  ~  
~  1st Floor LaFortune.  I  
~  I  
~  ~  
~ Deadline  for applying is Wednesday, September 15.  I  

~~._.,,,,.........................................., ............, ................., ......,~ 
J 
~ 
r 
I 
I Monday, September 6, 1982 -page 6
Editorials 

Silliness from MoLJint Sinai 
To save the editor trouble, I'm a junior from I. I am the Dean thy master; thou shalt not There may be a quiz. Yes, domers, there is hope. Washington, D.C. majoring in theatre and have any other source ofknowledge, morality, Don't take this too seriously; if you do, I'm English. Ordinarily this information would or general imperiousness before me, for I am. in big trouble. But all of it is to some extent Barring expulsion by the university or my have been appended at the end of my column best acquainted with your needs and desires, true, and the thing to remember is that rules getting a real job, I will be presenting more 
in a quaintly italicized editor's note, but since certainly more so than the hall rectors who are made, by definition, for the use ofa group. drivel ofthis type each Monday, and I would this is my first column ofthe semester, I might live with you and never come close to putting Make your own choices. And always know love to hearfrom any ofyou who would like as well fill in the uninitiated on the general in a full day ofwork, anyway. that ifthere is ever a serious p•oblem, many of to see yourfavqrite subject drivelled upon. I tenor of "Looking in" (referred to as 2. Thou shalt not take any thing in jest, for the people at thlis wonderful fantasy land are hope that the combination of senseless 
"brilliantly insightful satire" or "unmitigated life is too serious to be funny, and the alumni here for the specific purpose of helping the humorandpoor writing does not completely capitalist flatulence" by my mother and my don't appreciate it. individual find his way through the maze of mask my intent in trying to treat with our 
editor, respectively). I have found that the 3. Thou shalt keep holy the Sabbath day, Ho­guidelines and headaches which the scholas­situation as Notre Dame students. I hope to safest way to avoid being taken to task for your ly days, national holidays, and any day ofgreat tic life entails. Two thousand years ago, a man make this your space as much as mine (thatopinions is to appear to not take them too portent. Thou shalt keep them holy by doing namedjesus dropped in and reduced a pletho­should make it much easier to fill it from seriously yourself. I tried the serious social precisely what you do every other day, for this ra of rules and red tape to one simple week to week). All criticism will be sum­
concern approach in a couple ofcolumns last is not the real world. guideline which still works quite well today. marily discarded. year, but the novelty of being abused in print 4. Thou need no longer honor thy father wore off rapidly. So, here I go, meaning much, and mother, for we have taken over the en­but saY,! tg little. forcement of those rules they released you 
~ t from by sending you off to live on your own. (see in loco parentis; the "loco" is Spanish). 
Joe Musumeci 5. Thou shalt not kill. Thou shalt, however, get a lot of cheap thrills when three-quarterslooking In of Navy's starting lineup needs carting off the 
field before the first quarter is ended. 
6. Thou shalt not commit adultery, in thy 
This column is intended specifically for the mind, in thy heart, or in thy dorm room after freshmen, who have yet little experience as midnight (or 2:00a.m. on weekends). You are practising Domers. You have received your students, and sex rules your minds; you are bible (do the words "of the lake" ring a bell?) not to be trusted. but it is rnickle complex, and some exegesis 7. Thou shalt not steal. The University alone will, I'm sure, be appreciated. may remove property that is not theirs, and 
First, the basics. The sacred colors for this only ifthey think it is naughty. year are "mission beige" and "Navajo white." 8. Thou shalt not bear false witness or !.D.'s. 
The liturgical season extends from mid­If you don't have a note from the dean or September to late November, unless a special similar omnipotent authority, we know you're Holy Year is invoked, in which case there will lying. Even if you're not, you left your rights 
be an extraordinary day of obligation on behind with Mommy, so watch it. January 1. 9&10. Don't covet anything. If we haven't 
Now the heavy stuff. Most people were already given it to you, you don't need it ur aware, upon coming to Notre Dame, that it is a deserve it. Remember, you are students, and Catholic university. What most .of us didn't therefore low priority at a university. If you 
know is that it is so Catholic, it has its own set should happen to excel at making it big after of commandments, which often take graduation, we expect a healthy percentage precedence over those we have tried so hard for making you into the sort of responsible, 
to adhere to during our carefree years of aware person that only Notre Dame can preparation for Adulthood. Observe the stan­create. dards ofyour new home: Read these commandments carefully. 
Labor Day means more than a federal holiday 
Despite a full day of classes, papers, and We drive to Chicago, and the only remark We come from a world much different from some luxuries, we will still be able to attend 
"studying, today is indeed Labor Day. Each we can make about Gary, Indiana, is that "The those who live within sight of this Golden Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. year, the people of the United States officially air stinks." We never seem to realize that so Dome. Our parents gross an average of And these campuses keep us a world apart set aside this first Monday in September to many hard-working men and women stand 530,000 and though they work to instill with­from the cares of the wage laborer. Our only commemorate the workers, the backbone of behind those smoke stacks. Every day, these in us a sense ofvirtue and human dignity, few contacts consist of good-natured main­any civilization. iron and steel workers not only face the smell of us understand grimy, sweaty, tiring labor. tenence, cafeteria, and housekeeping 
of the blast furnaces, but the prospects that After all, we know that we will eat, sleep and "personnel." We rarely use the terms ladies or they may not be able to work an entire shift. relax in a home free of violence, apathy and gentlemen when referring to these persons We students may fail to find a summer job, rodents. who each day break their backs to keep our
Paul McGinn 
and cry to parents that "Life just isn't fair." And And of course, we feel certain that even campuses spotless, safe, and much like our yet we forget that these laborers, men and though our family may have to do without own homes.
For What It's Worth 
women with children to support, are daily We goggle at these ladies and gentlemen as being laid off because of changing winds in they line up every day at 3:30 p.m. to punch All of us remember our high school days of our white collar business world. But these their time cards at the Main Circle bus stop. cookouts, swimming parties, and softball on men and women have no one to yell at except Somehow, we fail to grasp what humiliation this day, a day which seemed to lack so much their own spouses or a bottle ofscotch. we put them through as we force these meaning as we had just only begun the school We formulate a definition of work based on comrades to line up like cattle to secure their 
vear the week before. And somehow, that lack summer job experience or volunteer service less than adequate compensation. We never ~>f meaning, that failure to appreciate the projects. We call it unemployment when our think of these men and women as our e<fuals; holiday, leads us to look upon Labor Day as parents are in the process of switching jobs. we deny their human dignity as we rarely ask just-another of those insipid times we do not We think times tough when we cannot afford "How are you?" or just say "Thank you." Of­
receive mail. a second family car. We cry "injustice" be­ten, we neglect the fact that they have But what about our fellow citizens who cause a diploma only yields a SI 0,000-a-year families, cares, crises, and loves, all which lie work their forty-hour weeks, earn their fami­job. beyond our academic ideals. We study and write in such eloquence
ly's daily bread, and who relish this one day set about how we will save the world when we
aside specifically to recognize their sweat and graduate. We talk about the degrees which
strain? 
Mt\'J! THI5 
will automatically boost us into positions of
Most of us at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's leadership. And in the spirit of the American
never fully appreciate the laborer. Few of us pseudo-intellectual Catholic lie, we plan how
XIIOOL WM\'\
come from blue collar families. Few of us to save the hoipolloi from themselves. 
realize the pain and frustration ofcoal miners, As we remember this day, let us not forget
l5 )111\pfl\1
plumbers, and steel workers. We live in ivory "----who we honor. We do not honor "the com­
towers of a white collar culture. We live, ,<.) I~ mon man" as someone dictinct from our-
work, and play in temperature-controlled en­vironments, forgetting that so many ofour fel­
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:~·~· selves; we honor our fellow human beings,and in doing so, honor ourselVes as equal
low taxpayers relish only the shade ofa tree at 1-.C.Ith'-..."'"'" members in this community oflaborers.
their midday meal. 
Editoriial Board Department Managers 
The Ohrert-er is an independent newspaper published by the studenb of the rtlitur Ill (hie/ \li.:hacl \toni-. /lusinl'ss .\lilllil_t:l'l" Tom .\Kilo UnnTrsity of Nol re Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not ne.:es>arily .H\ .111 \ n lkrl-.mon <·,mtrolll'r 1-:rit• :O.dllll/ . 
1/ll!lll_t:ill.~ ftlitor rdk"t:t the policies of the administ~;!.~:~~ ui e;thcr institution. The news ~~ report· rxccutil'l' \('//".\ rtlilur. 1\.dli Hull cltfl"l'rlisill,~ .lltlllil.~··r <:lm~ <>wnt cd as arcura_~dy ami as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of \111 \I'll'.' Ftlitor \Lirg;lrl"l h >~1111 >c l'rotlu.-tion .1/anagl'r \Liur;t \lurphy a maJonty of the Editorial Board. Coanmentaries, opinions and letters are the v1ews .\flo/"/.\ Ft/ilor ( ·hn~ :\tTdk' <uutlatitl!l lltllltl.~l'r R.l\ lnglin of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and Ftlilon,t/s (tlilor l'.nll \k< .inn \rs/1'111., ·"''"'l.~•·r I\run· t l.tl-.ln tht· f rce expression of varying opinwns on campus, through letters, ii em:ounged. /,·,t/un•s hi/lor T.m llnmn ----------·---------­l'hulu Ftlilor H.1.:hd lllontll P.O.Box Q. Notre I>ame,IN 4b556 (ll9) H9-'H():l 

-----------------------------------------------·---­
W
hat ever happened to dating? I hate parties in crowded "social spaces" with drunken domers trying to put moves on equally intox­icated ladies who travel in packs across campus to every party location. I don't like screaming over Bruce Springsteen, trying to converse with someone. 
I like listening to "The Boss" in a quiet setting, where I can hear him without distortion. I like being able to talk to a girl and not worry whether she is going to stay at the party or move on to Flanner to see ifGerry's boys are out. 
EdKontady 
features 
One very large problem with disliking parties is that I don't meet a lot ofgirls. I have met a very special friend from Saint Mary's, but it was through a mutual friend, and I was very lucky. 
So when I happened to meet a girl whQ I wanted ~o get to know better, I called her up and asked her to a movie. To my surprise, I got a very revealing lecture. 
"Why is it that everytime that I'm nice to a guy, he asks me out?" Confused for a moment, I wondered what was wrong with a girl being asked out. "You guys always want to get serious so quick. Can't we just be friends?" 
Mortalpanic! Quickly I tell her that I asked her to sc::e a movie, not marry me. I just wanted to spend a nice. evening with an interesting girl, I claim. 
"Well, thanks, but I've already got two dates for Friday, and I want to leave Saturday open because I'm in love with this guy, but he doesn't know it yet, and he's going to find out this week, and he migl'lt want to do something. Besides, I hate planning things this far in ad­vance. I like to do things on the spur-of-the-moment." 
What can I say? The girl has a busier social schedule than Ted Hesburgh. Her logic also bears a striking resemblance. 
But still, why has dating become the exception rather than the norm? Ofcourse, you do have the drawback of spending the entire evening with one person, and are 
limiting the number ofguys/girls you can meet in any one night. 
On the positive side though, you might find out that he/she is actually a tolerable human being and maybe even (gasp!) a friend who isn't the same sex as you. 
Yes! At places far, far away, like state colleges, people have good, even close, friends who are not the same sex, and who are not on the make. Sometimes they even live in the same dorm. Write your friends and ask ....I'm not lying. 
But it's easier for guys to toss in their five bucks and throw a party where they will meet a nice amount of girls. One might even get drunk enough to take you up on your equally drunken offer. Chances are better that one will get drunk enough to throw op on your stereo. 
So why don't guys ask out girls? 
l. "I hardly know her." So how will you get to know her ifyou invite her to a party with 300 other people? 
• Ask her out to dinner or a movie and discover what a wonderful/repulsive person she is. 
2. 
"There's nothing to do in South Bend." Movies, concerts, the Nazz; and if! can find things to do in Crown Point, Ind., you can bloody well find stuff to do in South Bend. 

3. 
"She might say no." The majority ofgirls don't want to drive you to psychotherapy because ofa bruised ego. If they don't w.tnt to go out with you, rest assured that they will be considerate, discreet, and probably just as clumsy as you. 


Ofcourse, this "social" situation is not without blame on both sides. Girls feel that they can't ask out guys be­cause the guys would feel intimidated, frightened, and would probably expect more than friendship. 
Right now I'll bet you're saying, "OK, Mr. Feature Column writer, what the heck can we do to change?" Well this is your chance to change this situation, if just for one weekend. 
Tell someone you would like to know better, that you read this column, and were wondering if they would like to go to do something this Friday or Saturday. No commitments, promises, or expectations. Just a chance to meet a friend. 
This mutual fear of the opposite sex can be postponed for a weekend -one ~eekend of meeting new friends outside ofhuge hall parties and even bigger personal expectations. 
CLOWNS is hope fot futute 
D arely today does a book that one 
~ight describe as a "moral story" make it far on the bestseller lists; thus, it is a pleasant surprise to note the impact which Morris West'sClowns ofGod had on the pocketbook of Bantam Books. Even more pleasant, however, was the ex­tent to which the book deserved its success. 
Joe musumeci 
book review 
Steeped in the tradition ofthe Roman Catholic upper echelons, the novel erupts at the start under cir­cumstances only too relevant to cur­rent trends -a pope deposed by an increasingly fearful curia after he receives a private revelation that the Second Coming is imminent in con­junction with a cataclysmic "end of all things." Coupled with a world 
economic situation which threatens to precipitate the latter at a mo­ment's notice, this scenario plunges the reader into a timely examination of the Catholic Church's tenuous toehold on a society for which the Apocalypse is a very real possibility. 
The story deftly followsJean Marie Sarette ("lately the Pope", as he ironically subscripts his letters) through his desperate attempts to both verify and communicate his horrible vision to a populace already in the thrall ofterrorism and nuclear proliferation. 
The story ofthe late pontiff inter­twines with the tale ofCarl Men­delius, a close friend whom jean Marie has chosen to be his examiner. Mendelius, a prominent theological scholar, once aJesuit and now a con­firmed fami!y :nan, presents an interesting study ofthe difficulties of faith in the face of man's growing ability to exterminate himselfon the one hand, and on the other, an apocalyptic revelation from a God who seems too often to have abandoned us to our own fate. 
amination. Recounting that he assumed the papal office as Gregory XVII as a "compromise choice after a six-day conclave," Sarette admits that his appointment terrified him. The pope West portrays is the calm man, the unassuming man, thrust in­to a position ofauthority which he didn't wish upon himself, but who, once arrayed in the robes ofauthor­ity, is perhaps most fit to wield it. In a letter to Mendelius, Sarette 
The ttilogy ends 
'T1flings usually are better the second time around, but Michael 
.1 Molinelli's third bookMolarity: No Outlet defies the odds by producing a third effort that wraps up the madcap adventures ofThe Molarity cartoon capers that have amused and abused the Notre Dame community for the past five years. 
Molinelli has ended the Molarity saga in fine fashion by producing the last portion ofthe Molarity trilogy, which contains the final year ofthe strips that ran in the Observer Today section. 
Jim Mole and the rest ofthe Molarity clan go through their final year of Notre Dame, an adventure that jumps from a talking dolphin to football Coach Gerry Faust's "Rockne-like" idea ofteaching foot­ball players how to be graceful to a marriage for Mitch and Cheryl (a match made at the Grotto) and, finally, to graduation ceremonies for the characters. 
C.teg Swietcz 
book review 
Molinelli's world is the Notre Dame community. No Outlet reflects this world, which contains political, social and personal statements the Molarity characters act out with humorous situa­tions. 
Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, Notre Dame Security, and even parietals fail to escape the wrath ofthe Molarity characters. While Molarity's humor can be as pure as the strip where Darby O'Gill II, faithful dog of Fr. Robert Griffin, charms students by his presence, he can vi­ciously attack the extreme overprotectedness this campus emits by bringing to light the many safeguards present in this community. 
Molinelli, a 1982 architecture graduate, formed his own publish­ing company in order to produceNo Outlet. Seven weeks prior to the start of the 1982-H3 year, he andJohn Higgins edited, laid out, and managed to produce the finished product by the end of August. 
"What is unique is that Iam the publisher this time," Molinelli said. "You might call it a Mickey Rooney-judy Garland type ofarrange­ment." 
Molinelli's two previous books, On the Road to Selling Out and Don't Make a Right, were produced by theJuniper Press, under the direction of Professor Elizabeth Christman. Molinelli said the juniper Press teaches students the book publishing business by producing a book. 
"(The students) would not get any experience working on anoth­er Molarity book, for all they would have to do is copy (the format of) the first book," Molinelli said. 
Molinelli aptly calls the publishing company the "Buy the Book Press." While he and Higgins have had to bear the brunt ofthe production and advertising work, the two believe the effort will be 
prosperous. 
"We sold over 200 copies the first three days," Molinelli said. "While the costs ofprinting have gone up and the size ofthe Molarity books have gotten progressively larger, the price is still the same 
( S2.95 ),"he said. 
While the advertising campaigns promotingNo Outlet say to "Beat a dead horse, buy the book," the culmination of Michael Molinelli's Molarity characters will live on ... as long as the softbound books hc.m.. u.-. 
sm 

by Ted Ozark 
5hh~h 
describes his goal as head of the Church as that ofa mediator, willing to go anywhere he is welcome to help stave offthe threat ofglobal dis­aster. 
The Clowns ofGod, Morris West. Bantam Books, pC~perback, SJ.95. 402pages. 
The Observer Monday, September 6, 1982 -page 8 

....., 
South Bend Ave. Store Only 
1621 South Bend Ave. (ND's closest liquor store) 
BEER SPECIALS 
...................................................................................., ...................................................................... 
Micheloh Miller Lite Coors 
$899 $699 $349 6pack 
case 24 bottles $}299 case
case cans 
....................................................................................... ..................,..................................................... ....................................................................... 
QUART SPECIALS  KEGS  MOLSON SPECIAL  
Strohs Miller  $8.49 $8.99  ~tier Ite  $29.99  Beer Ale  $12°c~se  
Lite Pabst  $8.99 $8.49  Michelob $33..99 Budweiser $29 ..99  Golden Ale  
Pabst  $29,.99  

.................................................................................................................................., 
BAR STOCKERS 1.75L PARTY FAVORITES 750 ML 
il il
Vodka $7.99 il Jaek Daniels $799 il 
il il il il 
Gin $8.99 il BaeardiRum $599 il 
il il il il 
il $899 il
Tanqt~~ray Gin
il il
$9.99
Rum 
il $599 •il 
il 7C:rown Bourbon $10.99 $799
Wild Turkey86p Scotch $10.99 Finlandia Vodka $899 
llllltiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIttllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll. 
*************** 
••••••••••••••••••••••••n••••u•••••••••••••••••••••••••••n••••••••••••••'t''''''''''''''''''•••••••••••••••••••n••••••••••••••••n••••••••••··~·····•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
Giacobazzi Fighting IrishI Riunite Carl<? Rossi 
Lambrusco Bourbon Latnbrmusco Wines 31
!=== 
31 with holder 750 1 
$799 
$7.991 ~~2.29 $4.99 
$10.69value lliter I 
llllllllllllllllllllllltiiUIIIIIIIII...... IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII ' Uo'/////t'/i\'A\'/•'t'i\'t'i'\'t'/•'///t'...'.\'•'ll.'::::.\\WA11ttttllllllllllllllllllllllllllli111111111111111111111111UIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII"! 
GOOD UNTIL 9/14/82 

j
~~()11S=lJ==r==i=~~~=S=============================M=on=d=ay=·=se=p~tje=m=be=r=6=,1=98=2===pa=g=e=9
By The Ohsen•er and Tbe Associated Press 
A fall program for novice to first-year boxers, sponsored by the Notre Dame Boxing Club, will be held beginning with the organizational meeting tomorrow at 4:30p.m. in the boxing room ofthe ACC. The program, consisting ofworkouts and learning sessions, is designed to initiate young athletes to the sport ofboxing, will last six weeks and will culminate in a novice tournament the week before fall break. Interested students may sign up at the Boxing Club booth at Activities Night or attend the first -vorkout. -The Observer 
The Non-Varsity Athletic office has announced the first set of registration deadlines for the early fall's interhall sports. All interested students can sign up to participate in the following sports: interhall tennis (men's and women's singles, mixed doubles); grad-faculty tennis (same); 16-inch softball; and co-ree softball. Deadline for these sign-ups is tomorrow. Interhall football sign ups also will take place in the next week, but will be conducted within the individual dormatories. For more information, contact your dorm's athletic commissioner or call the new 24-hour NVA phone line at 239-5 I 00. -The Observer 
Irish basketball greats Adrian Dantiey, Kelly Tripucka and Austin Carr headline a list of 18 former Notre Dame players who will be returning to the ACC September 18 to par­ticipate in the Logan Center Benifit B.asketball Game. The game is being organized ·by Notre Dame assistant basketball coaches Gary Brokaw and John Shumate, both former Irish Ali-Americans who will play in the game. "It will be a great opportunity for all of us to help give something back to the South Bend community and enable local fans to do the same," said Brokaw. Tip-off is set for 1 p.m. on Satur­day, September 18, just seven hours before Notre Dame opens its 
1982 football season against Michigan at Notre Dame stadium. Tick· ets are S6 in the lower arena and 54 for upper arena. Tickets are selling fast at Gate 10 ofthe ACC. -The Observer· 
Notre Dame Varsity Hockeyteam is holding an organizational meeting today at 3:30 in the ACC auditorium for all interested in trying out for the team. Call Coach Lefty Smith at 239­5227 for more information. -The Observer 
The Water Polo Club will be holding an organiza­tional meeting today at 4:30 p.m. in the Caron court of LaFortune. New members welcome. CallJohn at 6837 if you have any questions. 
-The Observer. 
Off-campus studentsinterested in coaching any o­c teams this fall are asked to contact Mick DePaolo, the off-campus athletic commissioner, at 234-5556 for information regarding fees, insurance, deadlines, etc. -The Observer 
Swimmers interested in the Not!e Dame varsity swim­ming teams should report for an organizational meeting Wednesday in room 218 ofthe Rockne Memorial. Upperclassmen should report at 4 p.m.; upperclass women will meet at 4:30p.m.; all freshmen at '5 
p.m. Contact <;:oach Dennis Stark (239·7042) for more information. 
-The Observer 
Notre Dame women interested in joining the Women's Cross Country Club should contact Rose Marie Luking at 6896. -The Observer · 
Gerry Faustwill be the guest Wednesday at 8 p.m. as the Fellowship of Christian Athletes renews its discussion series. The meeting will be held in the Memorial Library Lounge. FCA promtes Christian fellowship among athletes and coaches in the hope that this will be shared with the larger community. All are invited. -The 
Observer 
The off~campus soccer team will hold a man­datory organizational meeting tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the first floor LaFortune lobby. All those interested in pl~ying this fall should at· tend the meeting. Jamie Roberts (277-0595) can answer your ques­tions. -The Observer 
ND-SMC Women's Golfc1ub will hold an organiza­tional meeting Wednesday at 7 p.m. in Lyons chapel. Contact Mary Beth Heslin at 1277 for more information. -The Observer 
Football ticketdistribution begins today at Gate 3 ofthe ACC. Any Notre Dame/Saint Mary's senior who purchased tickets this summer may pick up their tickets today until 5 p.m. Juniors and all undergraduate students in the ninth semester or higher should report tomorrow between 8 a.m. and S p.m. Sophomores, graduate students and law students should report on Wednesday. Freshmen can pick up their tickets on Thursday. A student ID must be shown for each ticket. No student may present more than four !D's. -The 
Observer 
NATIONAL LEAGUE East 
w L Pet. GB St. LOUIS 76 59 .563 Philadelphia 76 60 .559 5 Montreal 73 63 .537 35 Pittsburgh 72 64 .529 45 Chicago 59 78 .43t 18 New York 53 81 .396 22.5 
Wast Atlanta 76 60· .559 Los Angeles 75 62 .547 15 -:.. San Diego 72 65 .526 4.5 San Franc1sco 69 67 .507 7 Houston 63 73 .463 13 Cincinnati 52 84 382 24 
Vast-y's Anulta Montreal 2. Atlanta 1 New York 10. Cincinnati 2 Philadelphia 4, Houston 3 Los Angeles 2. Pittsburgh 1, 10 innings San D1ego 5. Chicago 1 San FranciSCO 5. St. Louis 1 
Today'aGames Philadelphia (Krukow 12-8 or Farmer 2·5) at Ch1cago 
(B~rd8·11) 
New York (Falcone 7-8) at Pittsburgh (Sarmiento 6·3 or Candelaria 13-5 Montreat (Gullickson 10-10) at St. Louis (Andujar 10­10) Los Angeles (Reuss 13-10) at Cincinnati (Solo 11­10). n. San Franc1sco (Laskey 8·1 0) at Atlanta (Camp 11· 7). n. San Diego (Montefusco 9·9) at Houston (Ruhle 7·11 ), 
n. 
AMERICAN LEAGUE East 
w L Pet. GB Milwaukee 81 55 .596 Baltimore 76 58 567 4 Boston 76 59 563 45 Detro1t 69 65 515 11 New York 69 65 515 11 Cleveland 64 69 481 155 Toronto 62 75 453 195 
West KansasC1ty 78 58 574 Cahtorn1a 76 60 559 2 Chicago 72 63 533 55 Seattle 63 72 467 14 5 Oakland 59 78 431 19 5 Texas 53 82 393 24 5 M1nnesota 48 87 356 295 
Yesterday'a Reaulla Detroit 8, Oakland 1 Toronto 6, Cleveland 5 Baltimore 5, Minnesota 4 
Boston 6. Seattle 5, 1 0 1nmngs Texas 10. Ch1cago 7 Milwaukee 8. California 5 New York 18. Kansas C1ty 7 
Today'a Games Balt1more (McGregor 12-12) at New York (A1ghett18· 7) Boston (Denman 2·1) at Cleveland (Sorenson 10·11) Detroit (Wilcox 9-7) at Milwaukee (Med1ch 10-11) Chicago (Koosman 7-6) at Califorma (Forsch 11·10) Toronto (St1eb 13-13) at Oakland (K1ngman 3·1 0) M1nnesota (Havens 8·11 and Williams 5·6) at Texas (Hough 12-11 and Sm1thson 1·1) 
r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------~----------------------------~ The Observer wtll accept classtfteds Mon­day through Friday. 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. However. classifieds to appear in the next tssue must be received by 3 p.m. the bustness day ~nor to tnsertion. All classtfieds must be prepaid. etlher in person or through the mail. 
Classifieds 
FURNISHED HOU::;tNG: Now ava11ao,., Headed east th1s weekend? Need a ·:rtde FOR SALE, TWO PAIRS OF MICHIGAN DESPERATELY Need two tickets to Charter bus tnp to NEIL DIAMOND, Sept one and two bedroom duplex and a 4
NOTICES 
to Exit 10 (Cleveland) on the Oh10 TIX. CALL DONNA AT 6843 Michigan game; w1lling to pay a lot of 9, lnd1ana Umverstty, Bloomtngton. now T urnp1ke W1ll share the usual Call Alex at money--we re talk•ng b1g bucks on sale at RiverC1ty Records. 50970 U.S
bedroom house. Near campus: 713 and 
718 St LOUIS Call259-3439 
.. ·-:c 6931 DESPERATELY NEED 1 OR 2 MICHl· PLEASE!! Call Rocky or John at 1548 31 North Call 277·4242 for further •n· IMPROVE YOUR GRADES! Research GAN TIX CALL BILL 8810$$$$$ 
formatton 1 male roommate wanted for 2 bdrm apt
catalog · 306 pages· 10,278 top1cs ·Rush 
$1.00 to Box 25097C. Los Angeles, $115/mo. Utilities pa1d 287·5469 R1ch Alum ('82) needs M1ch GA's HELP. I NEED TWO TICKETS FOR THE All Notre Dame and St. Mary's women in· 
90025. (213) 477-8226 Anx1ous to wear new plaid pants. 277-MIAMI GAME NAME YOUR PRICE. terested 1n joining the ND-SMC crew team
FOR SALE
FURNISHED HOUSE TWO BLOCKS CALL JIM AT 8100. THANKS 
FROM CAMPUS ALSO COUNTRY 
3813 please attend a meetmg at 8 p m.. Sept 8. 
1n LaFortune Little Theatre Any ques­MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student loans HOUSE TEN MINUTES FROM N 0 
tions. call Jill234-2331 · $20 · $200 One percent rnterest Due in CALL 277·3604 or 288·0955 WILL TRADE 2·4 MICHIGAN GAS FOR 
Need 1 GA OR STUDENT TIX for MICH •• 
DOUG61661978 Yellow MG M1dget convertible New 
one month One day walt. Open M·F 2'-4 PITTSBURGH GAS CALL AL 3543. 
top luggage rack. rac1ng stnpes, AM·FM11:30 · 12:30 in LaFortune basement SHAREAHOUSEAT605N STPETER 
Need 4 tix to the Arizona game and 41tx to BEAT A DEAD HORSE! Wake a sleep1ng Stereo RadiO· Tape Deck 12.000 m1les.
COMPLETELY FURNISHED ROOM Stored tn Wtnter Mtnt condttton. $5000 
either the M1am1 or Purdue game Call dog! Sttr up some muddy waters! Buy
FOR FOUR MORE. DROP BY HOUSE GA Tickets wanted for the followmg home
312-362·4524 collect after 6 p m Molarity: No Oullet, the third and f1nal col­
277·3336 lecuon of that old has·been dned out car·
Learn Fly1ng for $350. Call277·6726 OR CALL 288-3942 AFTER 5 football games: Purdue (Sept. 25) and 
Penn State (Nov. 13). Call Alex at 6931 
DESPERATELY NEED GA TIX TOMICH toon strip MOLARITY. Brought to you byAn extra nice 2-bedroom downstairs apt , For sale-­AND ALL HOME GAMES PETE 232· the Red Bngade of the publlsh1ng world, stove, refngerator, garage & all utiht1es Couches $35 up 1466 Buy The Book Press 
W1ll trade 2 M1ch GAs for 2 M1am1 GA s.
pa1d. $200 mo Lease & depos1t Call272· Chairs $5 up Call232-6801. leave message for Paul 
LOST/FOUND 
1265 Free delivery to dorm 
Need 2 PURDUE GAs? Will trade for 2 Call Mrs Cooper 272·3004 
M1ch1gan GA or Student llx. Call Jay 287­
NEED 2 GA or student llckets tor M1ch1· RANDY BLUM· 3405 
gan Call Kevm at1865 Everyone at Chnst the K1ng m1sses you a of brown tinted wtre-framed glasses were 77 CELICA GT HDTP . 5-spd. stereo, lot. Hope you enJoy read1ng THE OB· AttentiOn All Notre Dame Students. Apatr 
WANTED 
NEED 2 TO 4 TIX FO~ MICH GAME. 
SERIIER It Will keep you up lo dale on
accidentally taken from the basketball $3300 293· 7269 (Elkhart) CALL NANCY AT 1273 (G A s) NO. Have a good year· good for you. badcourts near the Stepen Center on Mon­
for us bemg w1thout you MARKETING REP needed to sell SKI & NEED 4 GA tix for Purdue Please call
day. August 30 It you or anyone you 
WORD PROCESSING SYSTEM, $2995 know have 1nformat1on on the 
From Max s~down the mountam) Mom 64K Mtcrocomputer, letter quality pnnter. 
PERSONALS
BEACH TRIPS Earn cash and free vaca· Rene at 284-5458whereabouts of the descnbed glasses. 1t 
word process1ng software. CP/M, Bas1c IS of the utmosltmportance that you nottfy 
!tons You must be dynamtc & outgomg THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR LETTING
Call277-7720
CALL 312·871-1070 or wnte SUN & SKI NEED TWO MICHIGAN GAs CALL ME STAY IN YOUR ROOM THISDavtd Proctor, a restdent of Keenan Hall 
The room number ts 223. and the FINANCIAL AID!I We guarantee to f1nd
ADIIENTURES. 2256 N Clark St . WOZZ 1850 WEEKEND IM GOING TO MISS YOU Chrcago, IL 606 t 4 77 VW Rabbit Excellent Condltton Call 
telephone number ts 3277 There IS a scholarshipS, grants you re eligible to VERY MUCH THIS COMING YEAR 
277-6726 HELP · Need ONE Mlch1gan GA · Call
$10 00 reward rece1ve Apphcat1on matenals -$1.00. DEBBIE Dnvers Wanted--Must be over 18. have 1880 
Financtal Atd F;nder, Box 1053-CD, Fatr­own car. msurance, and valtd dnver s 
MARANTZ STEREO 
fleld. lA 52556 FOUND One set of keys (Mon August license Must be able to work mghts and 110 Tuner and 1030 Ampllf1er ·· $150 NEED 2 MICH TIX PLEASE CALL JOHN 
31) 1n front of Howard Hall Please call weekends Apply m pers ton at Dommo s each when ne..._. ·· best offer call Bob after 277-2787$$$$ Dear wenchlet, Well, thts ts the persor._. tt,at you have 
Kathy at 454 t 11 you th1nk they may be Ptzza. Plaza 23 Center, corner of S Bend 6pm at 277 ·6528 THE SOUTH BEND MARRIOTT has tem· 
yours porary openmgs tn t!s dmtng room and been wa1t1ng tor all these years I told you 
& 1/aness, 4:30·9 p m EOE. M/F 277· cocktail lounge for watters/wa1tresses If at my t1rst free moment I would put one tn.
2151 HELP1. LITTLE SISTER IS COMING FOR 
tn1erested. call Conn1e 1n Personnel 234-and here I am the ftrst ttme stnce I have THE PURDUE GAME AND DAD WILL 
2000 arnved here w1th nothing to do I thought Wattress and kttchen help needed for SHOOT ME IF SHE DOESNT GET A that since I never wnte to you, th1s may beSouth Bend/Notre Dame s newest ntle 
TICKETS 
TICKET! IF YOU DONT WANT TO SEE our matn means of correspond_ence I II try
FOR RENT 
club. Apply m person at 701 E Colfax. DO YOU KNOW SOMEONE WITH
A DEAD PIANIST· CALL MIKE AT 8867 to keep the message short th1s ttr.•l· · I JUSt
Tue,day. Sept 7. from 7 am to 1230 BULIMIA? B1nge eating and purging are 
want to say that Imtss you and am iool-.1ng
P m One day only! Go for tt! Wanted two ttckets together for common features If so, consider contact­
forward to Sept 24 Well. I am sure that I
Furnished 2·bedroom Apt . $250/month ND/M1ch•gan football game W1ll pay Ing COUNSELING & PSYCHOLOGICAL 1ncludes all uhl1lles. CLEAN, newly Wtfl trade 2 Purdue ttckets for 2 Mtchtgan cash or swap for one pa1r of thiS year s GA TIX NEEDED FOR PURDUE . SEAl/ICES A 1 O·week therapy group 
w1ll be heanng from you between now and 
then several ttmes But until then, remem·
remorl~ed Conventent locat1on 763 11ckets'.! Or W1!1 take tw'J Mtchtaan 11ckets' M1ch1gan home games Cali 313·464 begrns Sept 13. llm1ted enrollment Call 
L WE luSt off of Eddy St ramD 233 Please help " possrble Call Efle•l at 284 0600 days or 313·487-4502 n1tes Ask for Desperately need 2 GAs now for Mtamt Dr Ryb1Ck1 or Dr '>le1be. 23~·7336 for 1n· ber 1·4·3 Love AJA 
8388 5173 ThanKs Ivan game B1g bucks Calf'Joe 1469 formalton 
, 
The Observer Monday, September 6, 1982 -page l 0 
N. L. division races tighten 

By THE ASSOCI A HiD PRESS 
The National League pennant races tightened up yestcruay a!> divi· sion leaders Atlanta and St. Loub lost while Los Angeles and Philadelplua 
won. 
In Montreal. Rick :\1ahler and. Gene C>arber combined to hold Montreal to JUSt one hit AI <>Hver s lcadofi homer 111 the second innmg-but thl: Atlanta Uraves lost 2-1 yesterdav to the Expos when an error hy shortstop H.alael Hamirez allowed the winning run. 
Winner Steve Rogers. 16·"".tired a ~ix-hitter, Mrik.mg out t'ijO(ht and w;tlking one. 
Hamirt·z bootcd a rourmr ground­


. ·, ~' 
'· ~ 
--------------------------------· --­
Shadow of a Doubt >!;• ~··-······ ..,· ·•· .;:;t s .;,· · 
·' ,..;];·z"::" ·t.a• • , ... 1,; ... ,,.·.~ 
• ·"'i ~;-~ l'• ·1·'';1 :.n •·•!J+ '' J J:P:; '"1' 1o-, r •n.-..1:-.' '"' f•.: it'"' f! ,,.;r ,,._,,..Juwn A 1, r ~c:~:-~<i"'· •; nlt: 
5BptP.mOer I J Spellbound · •.::-.· Artr~J H.!r>'Co·" ;SA B & w f•c-"",..· P,--,1· ;... . "!'''' 'ln:~ers rr)•rr-:tc '0"" "'"f>r. :nqr1a Bergr'rtan 1 I·~·" .w •.r Ia·'"' • ·:::>~e Ntlt> .::,r.~~orv Pee~~: 3'' il'"r·r~sta Jlt\rm wno • • , ..,l.., • .. ·, ·~, Eowardes rl1p new Q1rectr•r ot rne-Pstcn•al'1( tn<.lltlJir> P!>VCI'l~•anatv~.rs ol meam ::>eauences bf Sal~aaOI Oal• leads 10 !he •Pfurn nl tJ'Ie ·~P""~-!:;Pd rn The chn•actrc skr chase oown c1 Swoss moun tarn 
September 2D 
Strangers on a Train · 9501 ..a,,,.~ HtJcncock. uSA B 11. w 
'lJl rrun An acc•dentat encounter on a tratn sugqests an ew.cnange of murders rn ThtS classrc rhrtller Raymond Chandlf!r wrole !he dtalogue for the adapla· !ton ol !he Parr,cra Mrgnsmrlh novel 
September 2 7 
North by Northwest (1959) Allreo H•tcncock. USA. cotor 136 m•n 
Hrtchcock terrorrzes Cary Grant a suave busmessman mrstakenly tden­ltfrecl as a CIA agenl wrll'l a crop.dustmg p•ane and wtlh a chmacltc clrmb across the prestdenl•at laces on Mt Rushmore 
Oclober 4 
Psycho (1960) Allred Hrtchcock. USA B & W 109 mrn H•tchcock·s most unrelentmg exercrse rn terror There's no need to re­count the now-c•assrc horror sel·p.eces. Psycno·s twrsted p~ychology Jnd rmages of VIOlence hnger tong alter the 111m has ended W•th Jan~t Lergh and Anthony Perkrns · 
Octobet 1 1 
The Bride Wore Black r 1968) Francots Trullaut. France 
corer 107 mrn tn Frencn wrth Engtrsh !riles Dedrcated lo Alfred H1tchcock and scored by Bernard Herrmann Bnde ooens wrlh a scene from Samuel Fufte(s 40 Guns A man rs shot teav­rng cnurcn on h•s weddtng day Afterwards. Jeanne Moreau the be­reavea brrde devo1es ner trt& to murderrng !hose responsrble rn a serres of c.1mes !hat are paradoxrcally express1ons of tove 
October 18 
Just Before Nightfall (19711 Claude Chabrat. France, color 
100 mm tn French w•th Enghsh subltlles Chabrat oushes Hrtchcockran rdent1hcatron wrth the crrmmat lo an lfonrc extreme 1n this 111m about a man whcr has an alla•r wtth h1s best frrend's wile ana accrdenlally krlls her Everyone exonerates hrm. Out he wants to be found gurlly 
---.. 
Novemt~t 1 
1..e Boucher ,1[,• I 11 .. .f.' 
;I .';1•':'1')1•'\}'t::l •·1• ~.-; •I '1'· • l . 'I'·•· '' 

Noverrber 9 
The Bird& ·, ·.• ~11r.-w '11!1/l(.L•C~< JSA ""'"' l :•.,1 ·r.1n 
.Oaf)l'•""' (,h.r MaUI•t'l. ltJ''''" ''I['•··~~· ue.cr·rrrf':' a w.ma olnhorJ+:rn ml,)ral•l'i play wtn;oro !111• '1-StdPr.!s .1r'" ,,,.,,,,: t•wn hGcmne v•chm•; "' Hly<:.["'''nv mass aii<Kk" ty l•etCf' rmd·: 
No-vember 15 Marnle · 'Jfi4! Ar!r~ ~itll,.r:cock USA. cotor t m mrn Sean Connery tans .n 'Ove wt•h TtpOt Hthlren oec.ause she·~ a •n•el-nol 
;;~·~u~~~~~:~ ';~~~·:sm:::~~~:~~d ~~:;~a~~~~,~~~~~~a ~:~~~~~~n 
!ell'ihtsm and chtldt'IOnd lfauma 
tuesday. November 23 
Dressed to Kilt (1980) B11an DePalma. USA color c•nemascope 
105 mrn Angre D•ck1nson play~ a lru!:>Ttatoed and reslless housewtfe and Mtr.haet Carne plays her reores~ed psycnlalrtsl rn <1 compelhng psychodrama !hal draws many cmemaltc remu'ltsr.enses tram HI!Chcock and Psycno 
November 29 
High Anxiety 1 1978) Mel Brooks. USA. color 94 mrn Brooks the dnec1or of me tnsll\ute tor lhe Very Very Nervous (a reference IO Spellboulldl lnes to solve a murder and cure hrs lear of he1ghls (Ver/Jgo) fn thiS hrlarrous homage 10 Allred H•lchcock 
December 6 
Frenzy 1 1972) Allred Hrtchcock Great ~•arn. color. 116 mrn What was an exchange of gurtt m Slrangars on a Tram becomes a trap o1rmphca110n lor an old 1nend rn Frenzy All the Hl!Chcock uaaemarks ai-e present ;n abunaance m thrs story ot a sua>~e London strangler black humor gteal camera work. unyreldmg suspense 
Ntfldi lvVHI. \iUNf 'IV>Ikf'\ 
C()IIVHIJNIICiiiJII()N
0 JlrlfcliiJ~I[ 
**********"*'*************** 
er by Gary Caner. allowmg Andre 
Dawson to 1-core the wmning nm 
from third base 
Garber,...,._-,, ·1d1o rdievt"d to ~tan the eighth. hit Dawson with a pttch with one out in the moth. Dawson stok second and advanced to third on Olvier·s groundout. Carter followed with a grounder to Hamirez, who bobbled the ball and threw late tu first as Dawson scored. 
In I.os Angeles. Pittsburgh right tidder Doug f'robel lost Greg BrPck's high fly in the sun with one out and the haset> loaded in the lOth inning ami th(' ball dropped lor a ~ingle to give the Los Angeles 
Dodger~ a 2· I victory over the 
Pirates. The Dodgers narrowed .At­
lanta'~ Wt.>sttrn Division lead to oPe­
and-a-half ganw~ with rhe VJl·tory 
Hon Hoenickt .opentd the inning with a douhk off loser K.cnt'Td~ulvr:. I() H. Atter Stc\ t' (,.ln·e-. ~acrificnl ptt1Lh-hllter jorge Ona was walkc·d 
•nh:r>!lonall) Rod S< l!fl)' replaced Tt'kulve and inlt ntionall) walked pinch-hitter <.andy :">1aldonado to I• t,t•J 1ht· hast·~ 
i>roch. hitltll); t< r "'·mning pttcher I on· '\ iedcnfun -. _ foJII< .wn.> " ' h" !ugh tl) \t • ::!:"'" ,hat l'robt·; il'l t.1J: Hro..:k ~<I~ ,·;·r,:~teJ w11n Ius lir1-t ·1:ti••r lt:agut" h•t. 
. be l:'iratt"~ t)roke :1 ~c"reles1<> tle .,,_ ilcn Dusty ll:tkcr :ook a home run :•\\aY from ••:II .t:tdlo<k \''Hit ,, 
'· .,rml!. ,_;Hell ha~~~· "vcr the left !w!d ·• ..•~on 1 1-':,"r~on .•ud Rtcllu: 
continuedfrom paJ;e 12 
December. Virginia will play (ieorgetown on cahle TV, and each school will make a h,llf million dol Iars. On one game. Win or lose. Now. there's something to cheat for. And 
the coaches have not dealt with that problem. 
I don't think schools are saying "Let's cheat so we can get in the tournament and make big money," so much as they are saying "Let's cheat so we can get on TV and make big money" or "Let's cheat so we'll win and make the alumni happy and more generous." 
The coaches are hoping that, after 
they raise the college prep course 
requirements, that they can some­
day require a minimum SAT score of 
700 -350 on each part -by the 
end of the decade. 1989 is not soon 
enough. If college basketball really 
wants to clean up its act, the coaches 
can't be half-hearted. Let's face it, a 
kid who can't get 350 on each of his 
SAT tests -when you get 200 just 
for signing your name -doesn't 
belong at a major college, and 
shouldn't even be expected to try. 
Hebnn tollowcd with base hits. Mikt· Easler forced pinch-runner Frobel, bur Dale Berra singled through the middle to score Thornpwn for a 1-0 Pittsburgh lead. 
Jn San Francis(O, Champ Sum­mers' two-our pinch single snapped a 1-1 tie in the botrom of the eighth inning and lifted the San Francisco Giants to a 5-l vktory over the St. Louis Cardinals. 
Tom Herr led ott the sixth with a single. went to senmd when Lonnie Stmth was hit by a pitch and scor.ed on Keith Hernandez' smgle. 
In Philadelphia. 1\-hke Schmidt and George Vukovich cracked con­secutive firs1-pitch homers offNolan Ryan in a r-hree run o;ixth inning yt>..:­terday to trtgger 'he Philaddphi;> Phillies a 4 ~ vieW') over tht· Hou· ton A~rro~ and '' ~wf·ep •Jf thdr thre•:-gJ.mc serit',. 
~~ Loui~ now kads l'hiladdpl1ia by only a half game m the Eastern Division. 
·r·ne Astrm· <>wnra a 3-1 lead w•th Rvan Y..orkmf; ••n hi:> tunth career um:· hirter when he walked ( .ary \1artilew~ wir.h "''" <•m in the ~1xrh. Schmtdt thn' '>:ll;L'iltc<.l h1s '11th hti!Tltr ovtr rlu ·• · !ield >vail, prli­ilil,!!,the l'hilht-' inwa _l-5 tic. 
Vukovich "·h~ drove in 11te 
l'hil!ie~· tirst .-1111 111 tht a.irst tnnm~ . 
ri,ilowt"d wu.l' • <h •w· <'V<'r the r:~ht­
tt.'tllt"f !Jcld'\\;t!i_ :!j ... ~ixth honH_·I .··! 
· nc ...;ea:.,on 
...~---.-.--..---­~-==o----· 
D--_­
t 
.A 

;; kiUS likt: t;•~r W.lnt .<11 uJucJUon. they should tn ..nd ~et une at a corn­munitv college or a trade school, they ~houldn't he .tskt·d to struggle in the b1g 1imt· <IIIli be expe..:ted to endure tht· pres~ures of playmg major college ball 
The real test will come injanu.rry, when the proposals are voted on by the athletic directors and college presidents at the l\iCAA meetings. It was easy tor a coach, whose every comment was being vieotaped, whose every :>igned ballot was recorded -,md who knew that all that information would be made available to the press -to vote for tough rules. 
The question remains as to whether, when it comes time for a secret ballot vote, the schools will actually "put their money where there mouths were." 
In short, the actions of the NABC are a commendable step in the right direction. But they are just a start, a Band-Aid on a festering wound. Much, much more has to be done if the coaches realistically want to clean up the gan1e. 
TOO SHORT FOR THE IRISH GUARD? 
Notre Dame Pipes*& Drums 
see us at Activities Night For more info call 239-7813 
*Bagpipes, thatis -no musical experience n-ecessary 
...................................................................: Cosimo'g illat~ CDegtgn 
/8461 St Rd. 23 South Bend callfor appointment 277-/875 Shampoo, Conditioner, Cur Stvle 
NDSpecial 
Guvs-$7.00(re/!. JJ.UV) Giris-~JO.OO(reR. /8.00) 
Co-Designers Only ask for Nita orJeff 
.
.
.. . . .. . .. . . . ... . ... . . . .... . . . . . .... . . . .. . . . .... . . .. . . .. . . . . . . . .....
~ 



IheO~rver======================================== 
T0 d~y==============M=o=nd=a=y='=S=ep=t=e=m=b=e=r=6='=1=9=8=2==p=a=g=e=l=l
Doonesbury 
Simon 


................................................... 
Attention Freshmen !!!! 
THE NAZZ needs volunteers to assist in setting up equipment • 
• 
Work 2 hours every other weekend• No experience necesscuy! 
iCONTACT SCOTT O'GRADY AT 3345 OR LOOK FOR THE NAZZ : BOOTH AT ACTIVITIES NlGHT-ffion., Sept. 6
A+••··············································...~······<lll· ...~······...~······...··~·····....~·······~....~······...··~·· 


Jeb Cashin 
Sven)ohnson 

52-mater 12 Hasn't -to (brain stand on membrane) 13 Cat sound 
53 Does art 18 Melodies 
work 19 A Castle 55 Hinder 23 Shreds 59 Friendly 25 Piebald 
remark 26 Desist 
62 Noble 27 Laundry Italian machine name 29 Gnaw away 
63 Clean a 30 Naughts 
blackboard 31 Genesis 64-Ranger place 65 Contemptible 32 Long gone 
person 34 Hasten 66 Groomed 37 Informed the lawn 39 Acted ex· 67 Looked over travagantly 42 Forward 
DOWN 44 Hindu 1 Scratch garment 2 Above 47 Respect 3 Uses needle highly 
and thread 49 Be a stool 4 Dig up pigeon 5 Tried out 51 Houston 
again athlete 6 Arena 53 Mexican cheer coin 7 Be under 54-boy! the weather 56 Nautical 8 Medicinal term amounts 57 M. Coty 9 Purloins 58 -Scott 
10 Members of 59 Permit a select 60 Shooting group marble 
11 Neighbor 61 Full of: ofWisc. suff. 
Campus 
•10 
a.m. to closing -Art Exhibition, Snite Museum ofArt 

•7 
p.m. -Film, "The General", Annenberg Auditorium 

•7 
p.m. -Activities Night, Stepan Center, Sponsored by Freshman Orientation Committee, Free 

•9 
p.m. -Film, "Shadow ofa Doubt", Annenberg Auditorium 


. T.V. Tonight 
6p.m. 
6:30p.m. 
7p.m. 
7:30p.m. 8p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10p.m. 
10:30p.m. 16 Tonight Show 22 U.S. Open Tennis np.m. 22 Quincy and Colombo 28 Newswatch 28 11:30p.m. 16 Late Night with David Letterman 28 ABC News Nightline 
New Cartoon Policy 
EDITOR'S NOTE -Beginning with this issue and continuing for several weeks, The Obseroer will publish a variety of cartoons by local artists. The strips will appear on a trial basis each day un· der "Dbonesbury" and "Simon" on the Today page. Before the fall break, readers will be asked to vote for their favorite strip. Top vote-getters will then appear on a regular basis. 
Observer correction 
In last Thursday's article Security makes changes; more officers wear guns, the statement "Notre Dame security officers are now authorized to carry arms while on duty" was incorrectly at­tributed to Security Director Glenn Terry. Only security personnel who are authorized police of­ficers may carry guns while on duty. 
In the same article, Dean of Students james Roemer was incorrectly quoted on the issue of whether more off-campus students are living in high-crime areas. Terry made the comments at­tributed to Roemrr. 
16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 
34 The MacNeil/Lehrer Report 16 M•A•s•H 
22 Family Feud 
28 Tic Tac Dough 
34 Straight Talk 
16 Uttle House on the Prairie 
22 M•A•s•H 
28 ABC News Closeup 
34 Evening at Pops 
22 Special Movie Presentation "The Tur­ning Point" 16 Monday Night at the Movies "Madam 
X" 28 NCAA Football Clemson at Georgia 34 Great Performances 34 Israeli Diary 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22Eyewitness News 34 The Dick Cavett Show 
..... 
ACROSS 1 Stratagem 5 "All­
lead to..." 10 Muslim 
leader 14 Summit 15 Novelist 
George 16 Egypt's river 
17 Conversa· tionaI gambit 20 Nail down 
21 Small rope attached to a sail 
22 Fog 24 Coaster 25 Creased, 
in a way 
28 Cold symptom 32 Bakeshop 
goody 33 Scorches 35 Used poor 
judgment 36 Pilaster 38 Party 
poopers 40 Resentful 41 Buddhist 
shrine 43 Leaks 
slowly 45 Drysdale 
orAmeche 46 Overthrow 48 Tells, as 
a tale 50 Sub­(secret) 
... -:.orr~ .,;r.. 

_j 

---~-~ -----~­
Monday, September 6, 1982 -page 12
~norts 
NABC convention Coaches make startling proposals • • • 
By SKIP DESJARDIN each player SO dollars per month. however. reported at the Final Four by the Sports Writer "We've got to be realistic," said In addition, the coaches voted to New York Times, that there was Phelps. "We ask these kids to stay require eight college prep courses wide-spead cheating.in college bas­Digger Phelps sat down with here in the summer to go to school, of all prospective freshmen, begin­ketball. Phelps and Indiana's Bobby members of the local media early and the NCAA doesn't allow them to ning in 1985-86. Students would be Knight, chairman of the NABC's Friday morning and spelled out the have a summer job if they are taking required to pass three English legislative committee and the prime results and the ramifications of last classes. In effect, we've been courses, including a course in Com­force behind the conference, or­week's National Association of Bas­penalizing them. Every college stu­position, two math courses, includ­ganized the meeting. They were ketball Coaches conference in dent in America can get a summer ing one in Algebra, a science, a social joined by coaches from Duke, Har­Chicago. The news was startling. job, and have spending money science, and a history course. By vard, Air Force, Dayton and 
"For the first time, we got all the during the year, but the basketball 1986-87, the requirement would be Portland. coaches together and seriously dis­players can't. raised to 10 units, and to 12 by 1987-"The votes were overwhelming cussed the problems with college "As a result, they turn to selling 88. on all the issues," Phelps said. basketball," Phelps said. "College tickets, or accepting cash from Recruiting visits would be limited "When schools like that talk about presidents and athletic directors coaches or alumni just to survive. to nine -three each in the home academics, and are supported vocal­have told us that it up to us, as We don't let them work in the sum­and the school, as well as three game ly by men like Dean Smith and Jack coaches, to clean up the sport. So mer or at Christmas, so we've got to visits -if the proposals are ac­Hartman, coaches listen. we, in effect, told them how we want make it up to them somehow." cepted. "Now the ball is back in the court to do it." As a balancing factor, the coaches "There was a real concerted effort of administrators. We've told them 
Eight major topics were dis­recommended that students caught to do something," Phelps said. "We what we need to clean up the sys­cussed, and the coaches recom­accepting cash or gifts lose their know it's now or never. Things ran tem, now it's up to them to vote at mended radical changes in the eligibility -for the rest of their very smoothly." The conference the NCAA meeting and give us what structure and rules of the game. For careers. They would keep their came about, for all intents and we want." instance, they requested an NCAA scholarships and be given the oppor­purposes, as a result of Phelps's The proposals go before the tournament that would include all tunity to continue their education, charges, levelled last year and entire NCAA in January. of the 270 Division l schools. 
"The Hammel Plan," named after Bob Hammel, a sportswriter with the Bloomington (Ind.) Herald­Telephone, and a former president 
...but tnuc:h more action is needed 
of the U.S. Basketball Writers As­sociation, would include 64 regional 
After much talk and very little action, the nation's
sites, with the winners in each 
major college basketball coaches finally got together
region then advancing to a format
Digger Phelps held a press last week in an effort to polish the tarnished image of 
Skip Desjardin
similar to the present tournament.
conference to announce some the game. For the first time, coaches sat down in one
The most drastic change,
majorproposals for college bas­place for a serious discussion of the problems, and to
however, would be a provision for 
ketball. See stories at left. · make an honest effort at coming up wil~h possible solu­
schools to buy one round-trip plane
(Observerfile photo) tions.
ticket for each player, as well as pay 
"Presidents and athletic directors told us that they want us, as coaches, to clean things up," said Digger Phelps at Friday morning's press confe1rence. "So we're get all excited about a late-season series ofgames when 
saying to them now, 'Fine, give us the tools and the it doesn't matter if you win or lose them. 
means we're asking for, and we'll do it."'-Under the plan, it will be much less likely that the The tools and the means that the coaches ended up "best team in the country" will end up national cham­requesting are, to say the least, shocking. pions. There are just too many places to stumble along 
KielandPinkett 
shine in scritntnage 
The "Hammel Plan" is interesting, and has a number the way. While it's wonderful to have Kentucky play By KELLY SULLIVAN On the ground, lightening-quick of good points. A coach who refuses to cheat, and has a Louisville, it's unfortunate that-if they are both in the Sports Writer tailback Allen Pinkett stole the mediocre team as a result, won't be fired for "not Top 10, perchance -one would be out of it all after 
show. Running with the No. 2's, the making the tournament." The pressure will be oft" a one game. Minor injuries sidelined tight end S-9, 175 pound freshman produced coach to "get there." Instead of222 lost:rs, 47 winners, The vastly expanded tournament is just one idea that Tony Hunter, split end Mike 52 yards on six carries -including and one super-winner -as is the case with the present came out of the NABC meetings, however. I think the Favorite and flanker Joe Howard -one 16-yard touchdown jaunt and a tournament structure -there will be just one winner, other proposals that surfaced are far more important. all first-team receivers -but they score from the 14 that was called and 269 teams will go home empty-handed. I have real problems with the idea ofpaying athletes did nothing to hurt Irish qurterback back because of holding. The absurdity oflast season, when Georgetown went to play. Phelps says it will preclude the need for players Blair Kid's passing statistics during "I told Phil Carter and Greg Bell west -keeping student-athletes out of class for a to sell game tickets or take "nickel and dime stuff' from Saturday's scrimmage. Raising they may have another guy battling couple ofweeks-and breezed to the finals, will not be coaches and alumni. It seems more likely, however that Kiel's numbers -he posted a 44 them for that No.I tailback slot," repeated. Schools will save money by pllaying the early it will simply amount to a pay increase for most players. percent completion average in 1981 said Faust. "They both just smiled. rounds close to home. Regional rivals would be forced lfyou were making money selling your tickets, would -is the big project this fall, as the They know the competition is really to play each other, and fans could buy tickets inJanuary, you stop just because the school was giving you SO junior slinger told reporters at the going to be heavy this year." for instance, knowing just who they're going to see. Im­bucks a month? Or would you take the money offerred, Skywriter's luncheon last week. Two-man races are shaping up at agine sectionals with Kentucky and Louisville; lridiana, sell the tickets anyway, and have all the more money to (Quarterback) "Coach Hudson's other positions besides running Purdue and Notre Dame; North Carolina, N.C. State and play with? goal for me is 57.5 percent comple­back. Moriarity and senior John Duke. Every year. Guaranteed. In addition, what could very well be the major reason tions," said Kiel. "He's very precise. I Sweeney are almost even at fullback, But there are problems with the plan as well. behind the problems in college sports today is being think it's a very realistic goal. I feel though Sweeney saw more duty sub­It renders the regular season virtually meaningless, as ignored. Many schools make a hell of a lot more money we can reach 60 percent or higher." bing for Hunter at tight-end Saturday the NBA and NHL have done. While the need to on television than they do on the tournament. In Notre Dame got a 75 percent -he grabbed three passes for 34 schedule "patsies" in order to insure 20 wins will be 
See PROPOSALS, page 10
throwing effort out of Kiel during yards. eliminated, so will the need to win. There's no reason to the team's three-hour workout in Senior Kevin Griffith and sopho­the Stadium -he was 12 of 16 for more Mike Golic shared chores at 149 yards. At least two of his four in­left defensive end, while senior Joe completed tosses were on target but Rudzinski and junior Rick Naylor 
dropped. "He had a heck ofan after­split time at the left linebacker spot. 
noon," praised Irish Coach Gerry Von Wyl is giving placekicker Faust. Kid's work -coming MikeJohnston a real run. Johnston, a against the No. 2 and 3 defenses -senior walk-on, missed a field-goal also produced zero interceptions try of 40 yards Saturday, and Von and three scores. The first, a 49-yard Wyl was one of two after missing field goal by freshman kicker Hal one from 48 yards out. Von Wyl, followed a drive that began "That spot is up for grabs," ad­
on the offense's own 1 S yard line. mitted Faust. "We might try and split Kiel later directed an 80-yard the kicking chores between the two, march capped by fullback Larry but we'd like to go with one if we 
Moriarty's scoring run from 13 yards can." Senior Chris Stone filled in out. On his final play of the after­for Favorite at split end and nabbed noon, Kiel kept the ball and scurried three catches for 40 yards to lead the 
six yards to the endzone himself. receivers. Freshman Milt Jackson, 
The offense didn't exactly roll backing up Howard at tlanker, also along error-free, however. There caught three tosses totaling 30 were numerous penalties -includ­yards. ing at least 11 delay of game infrac­Other than the penalites and what tions. Faust called some "sloppy tas;kling," 
"We're going to be signaling plays the Irish coach was encouraged by in from the sidelines this year, in­what he saw. stead of sending them in with the "There were some good signs players," explained Faust. "This is today -I was very glad to get the first day we've really used that through such a lengthy scrimmage system, and we've got a lot of work 
with no injuries, and the intensity to do on it. Some of the delay of 
was really heavy out there. But I'm game problems were just due to the far from satisfied.-we've got a lot of 
Irish quarterback BlairKiel completed 12 ofhis
players getting used to the signals improvements to make on offense 
16 attempts for 149 yards in Saturday's
and trying to decipher them." and defense." 


' 
t 
r 

