, , .Alcohol quiz -page 5 


VOL. XVII, NO. 24 tilt· imlepclllll"nt ~tudcnt Ill"\\ ...paper ~lT\ ing notre dame and ~amt man s TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1982 
'Go Irish' files suit against Notre Dame 

By GREGORY SWIERCZ sum for any possible punitive News Staff damages was included, but, accord­ing to Groves, that possibility is 
The publisher ofGo Irish, a week­open. ly football publication, has filed suit "If it b found that there was any against Notre Dame, accusing the interference (with business mat­Sports Information Department of ters) we can ask for punitive deterring the normal business func­damages," Groves said. tions ofthe publication. fan Action demanded a jury trial 
Fan Action Inc., publisher of Go in the suit against the Cniversity, a Irish, filed suit in Saint Joseph Supe­move Groves said would be suitable rior Court in Mishawaka on Sept. 1 7. for a fact-finding investigation or a 
According to the suit, the Univer­fair decision, ifneeded. Although the sity Sports Information Department jury trial was requested, Groves discriminated against the journal by pointed out the suit should follow denying it normal access to Notre normal legal procedures. Dame athletic facilities and refusing "As stated in the suit, we allege to issue press credentials to any that on occasions, they (Sports In­reporters for the publication. formation officials) have ap­
The suit further charges that proached writers and discouraged Roger Valdiserri, director of Sports them from writing for the publica­Information, has engaged in ac­tion," Groves ·said. Go Irish also has tivities that have reportedly been denied cooperation from 
Bob Yonchak, Student Bod)' Vice President, damaged Go Irish. neighboring institutions, he added. 
outlines his proposal for section parties in last 

James F. Groves, attorney for Fan The suit requested that Notre Action, said the legal action will Dame issue Go Irish press creden­determine whether the University is tials to University functions. An in­guilty of discrimination in denying junction also is being sought to stop 
OncivilrightsGo Irish press credentials, and University officials from activities whether the University has inter­that reportedly are damaging the fered in the business relations of the journal. 

Studies refute Reagan assertions 

journal. University officials could not be 
Officials at Gu Irish declined to reached for comment. WASHINGTON (AP) -Internal rights laws more actively than its "No matter how you slice it, that's comment, but a corporate officer for Go Irish, which covers only Notre records of the Equal Employment predecessors. just plain haloney. the journal said records have been Dame sports, began its second year Opportunity Commission and An EEOC document obtained by "Look at the record," Reagan sug­
a kept concerning the University's al­ofpublication in August. The journal lawyers' study of Justice Depart­The Associated Press showed that, gested. "The level of activity of thb leged interference with the publica­is published weekly during the foot­
ment operations contradict Presi­contrary to Reagan's recent claim to administration in investigating and tion. ball season, and monthly during the 
dent Reagan's claim that his a hlack audience, the numher of joh prosecuting th~>se who would at­According to the suit, no specific off-season. 
administration has enforced civil discrimination suits approved hy the tempt to deny hlacks their civil commission has dropped sharply. liberties hv violence and intimida­And the independent Washington tion has ex.ceeded the level ofevery

foreign troops 
Council of Lawyers concluded in a past administration." recent report that "the administra­The lawyers council, which bills tion has retreated from well­itselfas a hi partisan association ofat­established, bipartisan civil rights torneys from private firms, govern­


French, Italians enterLebanon 
policies" in several areas. Enti>rce­ment and publk interest groups, 
ment of school desegregation and said in its study puhlished the same 

BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP)-French remained offshore, awaiting the bv Lebanese Christian militiamen. fair housing laws has all but halted, day Reagan made his speech, that and Italian peacekeeping troops, complete withdrawal of Israeli . She, her mother and sister have according to the I~H-pagc: study. the administration's record in that 
welcomed by smiling Palestinian forces from this bloodied capital. been staying at a school outside the Only in prosecuting police area is at least equal to those of the children and women offering tea, "Tonight we will sleep in our camps since they were atraid the kil­hrutalirv and similar violent denials two previous administrations. moved into the Sabra and Chatilla house because the French are here," lers would return. "Now we are not of indi~·iduals' civil rights has the But Reagan went on to say, "Th refugee camps yesterday, scene of said Amal Alaa Adein, a I "'-year-old afraid," she said. Justice Department excelled, the Justice Department has filed nine the Beirut massacre. girl whose father, grandfather and So fJr, Lebanese authorities have report said. new anti-discrimination ~uits again~t 
But 1,200 U.S. Marines, third com­grandmother were murdered in the contirmed that ahout 600 people Reagan told a dinner fl'f hlack puhlic employers and has reviewed ponent ofa new peacekeeping force, Sept. I6-1H massacre, carried out were killed in the hloodbath. Yester­Republicans on Sept. IS that he more than 9,000 electoral changes 

Yonchakpropos·es dorm sectionparties 
ByDANKOPP wen: prohihitnt tiH· p:ars ago .\'tajfReporter hut he does not know ofany legal re<L~ons or fire problems to hin­
A proposal to allow section der their reinstatement. parties in the dorms was in­In the proposal Yonl:hak re­troduced to the Student Senate quires a guest list of all last night hy Student Body Vi<:e participants. It also includes a Pre~ident Bob Yonchak. clause that thirty-percent of the. 
"The only reason I'm bringing expenditure must he for non­it up now i~ for discussion. It's hy alcoholic !leverages and food. no means a concrete proposal. After the proposal is perfected It'~ got a long way to it must pass through the Campus go,"Yonchak said. "We don't Life Council and tinally receive know what direction to go with the approval of Father Van Wov­this vet." lear, the Director of Student Af­
The reason for the propo~al fairs~ Yom:hak, however, said he drafted hy Yonchak and Cathy is optimistic ahout the ultimate Bego is that they believe parties success of this proposal. in party rooms "are very imper­In other husine~s Yonchak an­sonal and don't allow much inter­nounced that HOO tickets were action hetween friends." lotteried for :\1ichigan State and Yonchak said. "Girl's dorms have must be picked up by today. the best party space on campus finally, Yonchak stressed that and they have not been used,at Student Senate meetings are all." he added. open to students and their input 
Y111Khak said ~ection partie~ is welcome. 
day. hundred~ of women trom the usually tries to ignore personal at­to determine compliance with the camp~ gathered tearfully at a mass tacks, "but one charge: I will have to Voting Rights Act. And that, too, is a grave in Chatilla to pray for the vic­admit strikes at my heart every time higher level of activity than in any tims. I hear it. That's the: suggestion that prior administration." 
In Israel, Prime :\1inister :\1enac­we Republicans are taking a less 
hem Begin's Cahinet was scheduled active approach to protecting the: 
See RIGHTS, page 5 to meet today, and the Israeli news civil rights ofall Americans. media predicted Begin would how to intense public pressure ti>r a full judicial inquiry into Israeli conduct 



Opposition leaders 
during the camp killings. 
Begin has proposed that Israel's 
chief justice conduct an investiga­
tion, but without suhpoena power 


plan to oust Schmidt 
and otherattrihutes ofa full inquiry. five of .W Israeli Cahinet mini­
BONN, West Germany (AP) -backing to ou~t Schmidt, leader of sters favor a fully empowered inves­
Despite a state election sethack that the Social Democrats who have led tigation, Israel radio said. Israeli could erode their Mrength, con­We~t German coalition govern­Justice :\1inister ,\\oshe :--Jissim was 
~ervative oppo~ition leader~ went ment~ for I ~ years.quoted in the Israeli press as saying a 
ahead ye~terday with a plan to un­In a parliamentary election Sun­ti>rmal inquiry "now seems in­seat Chancellor Helmut Schmidt this day in the state of Hesse, Schmidt evitable." 
week. won an unexpectedly high share of Israeli troops had the two Beirut Helmut Kohl ~aid after a meeting the vote and the Free Democrats, 
camps surrounded during the mas­
of hi~ Christian Democrat party that who~e help the conservatives need sacre, and Defense. :\1inister Ariel 
he still planned to ou~t Schmidt and to oust the chancellor, suffered a Sharon has acknowledged that the get himself elected chancellor in a major defeat and were voted out of assault on the: camps hy Christian parliamentary vote ofno-contidence the state parliament. 
Phalangist militiamen was mounted 
sch-·~duled for friday. Schmidt, whose coalition govern­with Israeli planning and support in 
But he added that a no-confidence ment collapsed Sept. 17, said yester­an effort to root out PLO fighters 
vote would bt· conducted only "if I day he still wants early national reported in the camps. But he main­
have the certain expectation that a elections to solve the country's tains that the Israelis intervened af­
majority will vote for it." political crisis. ter learning that civilians were heing 
But there were growing doubts slaughtered. about whether he had sufficient See SCHMIDT, page 4 

------------------·-----~ ----~--­


NewsBrie!J 
Ill I"" I ii>S<'I"f'!'l" and llw lssucialetf l'r"·'-' 
Two hit and run victims who were injured early Sun­day morning are still in intensive care in SaintJoseph's Medical Cen­ter. Elizabeth Mclnernv, of 415 Badin Hall, is still in serious condition. Kerin Manni~n. of902 Notre Dame Avenue, is in fair and stable condition. Police still have no suspects. Anyone with informa­tion is urged to call South Bend Police at 284-9306.-The Observer 
A doctorhas been lured to a rendezvous and stabbed for the second time sin.:e he reported what he thought was a high cancer rate in a little Florida town, his brother said yesterday. 
Dr. Frederick Boedy, who was slashed in the arm Sept. 1 5 and whose carport caught fire three days later, had already talked of leaving the area to protect his family. 
He was stabbed in the stomach late Sunday or early yesterday and 
was recovering at Jackson County Hospital in Marianna, Pete Boedy 
said by telephone from his home in Atlanta. Police said the doctor 
was stabbed at his office in Marianna, the seat of rural Jackson 
County. 

"The wounds were more serious this time," Pete Boedy said. "He 
required surgery." The 30-year-old family physician was listed in 
(lood condition, a hospital spokeswoman said. -AP 
A special staff of lawyers, auditors and inves­
tigators is helping Indiana crack down on Medicaid fraud, a crime 
that drains federal and state treasuries of millions of dollars every 
year. 

Instead of focusing on fraud by recipients of the health care program, the new unit in the Indiana attorney general's office will investigate illegal activities by people and institutions who provide care paid for by Medicaid dollars. 
Indiana's Medicaid fraud control unit, which was established in July, was dedicated yesterday at aceremony in Gov. Robert D. Orr's office. Richard P. Kusserow, the inspector general ofthe U.S. Depart­ment of Health and Human Services, represented President Reagan at the event. 
Kusserow, who presented a plaque to Attorney General Linley E. 
Pearson commemorating the ceremony, noted that 30 other states 
have set up similar operations to seek out fraudulent activity by doc­
tors, hospitals, nursing homes and other Medicaid providers. -AP 
The banana, the American public's favorite fruit and 
mainstay of several Central American economies, hasbeen taking a 
battering recently in a billion-dollar trade war that is causing pains 
for some big bananas in the import business. 
"Everybody's losing money in 'the banana field right now," la­
ments Sam Gordon, president ofthe Miami-based Del Monte Banana 
Co., America's third-largest seller of the golden-skinned tropical 
delicacy. "We're getting 50 cents now for every dollar we used to get 
last year." 

In 1981, the wholesale price of bananas averaged $7.28 for a 40­
pound box, the normal shipping container, and reached a high of 
$13.00, said Ben Huang, a spokesman for the Agriculture Depart­
ment in Washington. This year,_ the price has dropped to S5.54 per 
box. -AP 

Deep disappointtnentand reliefthat the waiting is 
over characterized the mood yesterday in Fort Wayne after Interna­
tional Harvester Co., the city's largest employer, announced it would 
close its Fort Wayne truck plant. 
"It's disappointing, but at least we got a decision finally," said Rex 
Bear, president of United Auto Workers Local 57 at Fort Wayne. 
"That's in itself a kind of a relief I said at the start of this there's not 
going to be any winners, just losers." 
The Chicago-based truck and farm machine maker will con­
solidate its U.S. truck manufacturing at Springfield, Ohio, in an 
economy move. The decision was announced by Harvester Presi­
dent Donald Lennox at a morning news conference with Fort Wayne 
Mayor Winfield Moses Jr. 

"We reached our decision to close the Fort Wayne assembly 
operation with deep regret," Lennox said. "But it was a necessary 
decision to protect the future ofthe company and the overwhelming 
majority of IH employees. We have been deeply moved by the ex­
pressions of support from the communities of Springfield and Fort 
Wayne." -AP 

The Miller Brewing Company will give a presentation on their marketing strategies Wednesday, Sept. 29 at 
7:30 p.m. in Room 122 Hayes Healy. The talk will illustrate how effective marketing has enabled Miller Brewing Co. to rise from a number seven beer product 1'0 number two. The program is sponsored by the Notre Qame Marketing Club, is free and open to the public, and will be followed by refreshments. -The Obsert'er 
Becoming mostly sunnyand warm today. highs in the low to mid 70s. Fair tonight and cool. Lows in the upper 40s to low 50s. Tomorrow, mostly sun ny and warm. Highs in the mid to upper 70s. -AP 
Tuesday, September 28, 1982 -page 2 
Be careful out there 
At the beginning of each episode of "1/i// Street Blues," Sergeant Philip Esterhouse goes through the dailv roll call. When he tlnishes, he sternly reminds his me~ and women to "be <.·areful out there." They usually respond with hoots and hollers, with some derisive comments thriJwn in for good measure. 
Despite the levity, the producers of the show are attempting to portray the seemingly casual attitude many police officers have towards danger. Each day their job brings them into contact with lik-theatening situations. However as any good cop will tell you, beneath the bravado, the calm exterior, is care and 
suspicion. A cop who wants to stay alive always has to be on guard. 
As students, danger in our daily lives is not something we face often. How many of us before leaving the safety ofour dorm rooms, or apartments, stop to wonder ifwe will return in the same condition in which we left' Nor­mally this wouldn't be a consideration, but events ofthe past few weeks should give qne pause. 
For three Mondays in a row, The Observer has carried front page stories about injuries to students. Several people are in the hospital and one is dead. People who have been around the community for awhile cannot remember such a bad streak. 

shown this is false. When I was young. I remember watching ads on television urging people to drive defensively. In those days my idea ofdriving defensively was to chase small animals on my tricycle. Now in later life as a driver, I can see the reasoning behind that philosophy. 
A lot ofthe recent incidents might have been avoided ifthe students involved had been more careful. Not that the victims were at fault, but an extra show of caution might have made the ditference. For many, this is their tirst experience in fending ti.Jr themselves. Most of us come from neighborhoods that are fairly safe, so our tirst experience with crime may come when it hits us on the head -literally. 
Acomplicating factor with regard to studern safety is 
alcohol. This is a subject that 

These recent accidents has been discussed at length should be sobering for most recently on both campuses. of us. Since most students However the more subtle ef 
live on-campus, they are fects of its use -not abuse protected from many of the 
-have not been touched 

vices and seedier aspects of on. Students seen drinking 
the outside world. The are often the first targets of 
Notre Dame and Saint muggers. Even someone Mary's security forces do an with just a few beers in them admirable job at keeping the 
has their reaction time criminal hordes at bay. lowered. The pursuit of a Students can walk to din­good time can drive in­
ner without fear of being dividuals to take risks they knifed. Despite warnings to wouldn't under more staid the contrary, many feel circumstances. secure enough to walk the Even people who con­
campuses alone at night. sider themselves "experts" When crime does raise its at drinking may be surprised ugly head, its usually no­at how little they know 

thing more then a scummy pilferer swiping his dormmates belongings. 
Things are different for those living offcampus. Many of the neighborhoods surrounding the campus are far from crime free. And the statistics of robberies of stu­dent apartments during semester breaks suggest local criminals are operating out ofmoving vans. Already this year, several students have been robbed by weapon 
wielding locals. Yet despite numerous warnings from 
officials, many people living off-campus regard the 
criminal element as part of"the adventure." Two years 
ago, off-campus students grumbled loudly about the 
level of law enforcement protection they were receiv­
ing. The result was a meeting that had present 
representatives from City and County police, as well as 
Administration officials and Notre Dame Set'urity per­
sonnel. These people answered questions, took sugges­
tions, and gave crime prevention tips to the students 
present-all tlve of them. 

I doubt many of us worry about our safety a lot. After all, we are ymtng and healthy, so the prospect ofsome­thing happening to us seems remote. Events have 
about alcohol's ellects. Be­cause ofthis, The Obseruer, starting today, is publishing a series ofalcohol information tests. Today's test covers general knowledge; students who have been in the Corby's Honors program may be dismayed at their results. The tests will be running through Friday. They were written by The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, an organization that's very name is a test ofsobriety. 
The tests that will run later in the week will deal specifically with driving and drinking. There has been a nationwide push by law enforcement agencies to get intoxicated drivers offthe road. Here in Indiana, anyone found with a blood/alcohol level of.1 0 percent or more is subject to arrest. The tlrst conviction is a mis­demeanor which can send you to jail for up to six months. Ifyou areever convicted ofdrunk driving again in Indiana, you can be put in jail for up to four years. Three mixed drinks can put you over the legal limit. 
I urge you to take the tests in the coming days. More importantly, I hope everyone will remember when they are out that disaster strikes without warning. Let's not have any tragic headlines on the front page ofnext Mon­day's Observer. 

The Observer 

/Jesip,lll:'dilor .. . ..... Tim "l>aznl and 
Confu~t·d" 't:d~ 
1Jesip,11 Assistau! Tro~ "Land of \lake.: lklit.'\'t·"lllig 
Laura "Surf<.:r (;irl" Puh. l.ay()u/ S!t~/l ... Sarah "\X'orking hn the \X"t·t·kend·· llamilton 'f)'/Jf!.W!IIers .. ... YYZ \eu•s f:.'t!ilor... . ... \tichdc.. Copy Fdilor. .. 1\.al-h~ "~oumb ofSilt·IKt'.. \1urra~ 
H & J" I.ayout .. Akx ·Takin· Cart· of Bw.i· ne:-o!'\.. Szih·a~ J;"tfitorials J.ayout .. .... Paul "~cotland lht· 
.\"fJortsCoprl:"ditor.l>an.· "On!) I he (,ood l>it' Young" l>ziedzil" \likt: "Quartt'r to Thrct·" Riccardi 
\1) /)(1_1' f.'c/i/OI' .. 

Dan· "Call \k"" <irole .\.\/(." !Jt~l' /:'tlilor Tari "()n the Sunny ~ic.k ol the Strt't.'t" Brown Pbolograph,•r. I'om ":\t·w 1\.id in To\\ n·· \X'hitt· 
The Observer 1USPS '>YH 'i2111 ,., 
fjubhshPC1 Mllt1rldy !hr<ILJqtl Frt1dv rF111 111 home luufbdll Sdtur•ld v·..., t•ic.•. L'f.JI hHJng exa·n t1nC1_vr1r dlit m pf1fl, Hh The Observer IS publiShed by HH· '1urlrn1' 1Jf Noire Da·ne d.nri Sn1nt Mrnv ~ Clo1 lege Subo:,t r1pt11 Hl':l ·nd v rJP pur1 hdi..,Pd lur S25 per year 1S I~ per Sf."llPSIPfl t>v Mltlng The Observer P 0 B"' 1..) 
Nutre Dd'llP lnli,dnd 46~~6 

The Observer '' ,., .,,..,.,tlPr ,, The Associated Press All !f'~)r •r1w ~I r· nqh!s drl• reservP(1 
SE->c.und ( ldSS puslct:jl' pdr 1 tl "J, .:rt· 
0d'llf' lnlilclflrl 461):16 


·-ih-;1'homcii"MorV"so'Ci"Vi'YoTfiotre-Dc.n1"V-1 Present1 1
..Contemporary Issues Lecture Series .. , Wednesday nights 8:15-9:15 I Rm. 11 5 o·shag Hall I Q and fl Period following prcnvntations I Sept. l9 I ··socialism--An Overview·· I 
presented by Dr. Gerhart niemeyer I 
<iovern.ncznt t:mllritus I 

~~---------~-----~--------J 
The Amos Tuck School of Business Administration 
Dartmouth College • Hanover, N.H. 
Men and Women Seeking Graduate Education for Management are invited to discuss the 

TUCK MBA 
Tuesday, November 2 
Scott Settle, Assistant Director of Admissions Check with Placement Office • Administration Building Room 213 • 239-5200 
The Observer Tuesday, September 28, 1982-page 3 
8.5percent 
Food strunp benefits increase 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The na­ti(,n·s 22 million food stamp recipients will get an average 8. 5 percent benefit increase -their first in two years -on Friday as the government begins a new fiscal year. 
But the start of fiscal 1983 will also usher in cutbacks and economy measures in other welfare programs and :\-tedicare, the health insurance program for 28 million elderly and disabled Americans. 
:\lany adults seeking Aid to 
St. Thomas More Society conference 
The first annual St. Thomas More Conference will be held Saturday, Oct. 2, at the Galvin Life Science Auditorium on the University of Notre Dame campus. The day-long · event is sponsored by the Thomas 
More Society of Notre Dame. 
The conference w;JI consist of a series of lectures and panel discus­sions involving such noted scholars as Joseph Berrigan, Professor of His­tory at the University of Georgia, 
John Gueguen, Professor ofpolitical science at Illinois State University and keynote speaker, Ralph Mcinerny of the Maritain Center, 
Notre  Dame  Profes~or  of  
Philosophy.  
In  addition, a tilm  and slide  

presentation on Thomas Mort: will be shown. 
The purpose of the conference is twofold, explains Society President Jerry Wegemer. To begin wii:h, we will examine Thomas More's impor­tance to the present, as well as the past. Equally important, though, will be the emphasis on the value of the liberal education ideal. 
The conference will begin at 1:00 p.r.-1. with a talk by Berrigan on St. Augustine and St. Thomas More: Two Catholic Rhetoricians. 
Thomas More: English Leader and European Statesman is the title of the second presentation, by Gueguen. 
Following the sessions there will be a pane! forum on liberal educa­tion featuring f:~culty and alumni of Notre Dame. 
The keynote speech will be delivered by Mcinerny on "The Wit and Wisdom ofThomas More." 
Families with dependent children will be required to look for work first. 
Medicare will no longer pay for private: rooms in hospitals or skilled nursing faciliics, unless the patient's condition requircs seclusion. The health insurance program will only pay for semi-private: rooms, saving S5-i million. 
Food stamp benefits have not risen since 1980. The boost on Fridav will raise the average month­ly be~efits for a family offour by 520 from S233 to S253. 
Congress skipped last year's nor­mal annual adjustment in the: so­called "thrifty food plan" for food stamp recipients as part of President Reagan's first round of budget cuts. 
The lawmakers also rejiggered the formula to hold down this year's in­crease in the S 11.3 billion program. They ordered S548 million in savings -including reduced pay­ments to states with high error rates -in a bid to keep the fiscal 1983 costs under S 1 1 million. 
As part of the s 1 00 billion tax boost that Congress enacted in Augu~t. Medicare is putting new limits on hospital reimbursements to save S480 million. 
It also will pay radiologists and 

pathologists only 80 percent oftheir 
"reasonable" cbsts, instead of the full cost, to save S 1 ~; million. 
Although these and other changes in reimbursement rates are directed at hospitals, physicians and other health care providers, s ome ad­vocacy groups kar the elderly will wind up paying a larger share of their medical bills out of their own pockets. 
The tax bill also allows states to charge adult :\ledicaid patients a small fee for all nonemcrgency services. Pregnant women and children are exempt. 
La.o;t Oct. I, the Rcagan administra­
tion and Congress instituted swcep­
ing eligibility changes in the: AFDC 
program, which costs s 1 5 billion 
and supports 1 1 million mothers 
and children and, in some states, un­
employed fathers. 
La.o;t year's changes made it hardcr 
for people to stay on the AFDC rolls 
if they worked. The new rule 
changes will allow states to require 
job searches for AFDC applicants; 
currently. states can only require 
job searches for those on the: rolls. 
AFDC payments will be barred to 
families where the only reason for 
the parent's absence i~ that he or she 
is on military duty. 
States also will be barred from 
making welfare payments 
retroactive to the tirst day of the 
month for new recipients. 
lntczrczstczd in taking a class in Ballroom Dancing? 
It's still not too late to sign up for the Ballroom 
ance Class which is being HELD ON SAINT MARY'S CAMPUS IN THE REGINA HALL LOUNGE BASEMENT FROM 6:15p.m. 
to 7:45p.m. 

NEXT SCHEDULED CLASS DATE: SEPT. 29. 
SIGN UP NOW IN THE SAINT MARY'S STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE 
PHONE: 284-4561 ,..~ 
COST IS ONLY $25 
FOR FIVE WEEKS' 
This offer is limited to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students only! 





''Komacosi Night'' 
Come in and and 
getyout Ftee 
Komc.cosi Helmet 
and glasses••• 

Komacosi's 95~ 

9pm--Jam GO IRISH BEAT SPARTANS 
,-.-,-,~-·····.···--·,~~~.,..~4'~.... ...·-··:·-·...~,.r.,........,-, ...~.-~,"J:.....-....,..,~,~~"'~....,__."'"_.......-.......-,... ....-...~~,......... ~.... Y.I
.R 
r

i The Student ~ 1 Alumni Relations ~ 
.iy_...·.:. Group (SARG) 
~ eXfKuedUcg w~· SARG.(l~ I ~ ~tb &~cued afwtuci.~ ~: 
~ftvt~.~.cucd~~ t ' •1: eatjtuj ~wi& afwtuci. &~'rued &t J ~~-t

I 
~fed3~~~TMd~ ~ 
{232-1163)tt'l 9Bb ~ (283-3507) ! 
I IUl ~8w.t oct. II. ' 



L~~~~~~~~--.1 
CARROLL CAVANAUGH 
D D D 0DILLON 

••••1982 






oporo 
Of 0 10 20304050607DBD901000io 0 102030405CJS070B090~­
~----------~--------~--------·------------------------~~~~-~4------------------------~--------·---------~~~----------a.--.-.... 
UNITED WAY at N.D. Participation Chart 00001981 
RATIO IS NO. OF STUDENTS CONTRIBUTING $2.00 or MORE DIVIDED BY TOTAL NO. OF STUDENTS 
0
B*P 



-----------------------------·----------·-· ---------­
The Observer Tuesday, September 28, 1982 ---: page 4 


Mexico program 


Exchange student chronicles trip 
Editor's Note: The following is part of a journal written by Fred McCarthy, a Notre Dame junior who participated in the Mexico program at the Universidad Iberoamerica last semester. The program is sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns. There will be an informational meeting for stu­dents interested in the Mexico program tomorrow at 7 p.m. in room 124 ofthe Hayes-Healy build­ing. 
Last year I began to wonder if I had made a mistake coming to Notre Dame. Like many other students, I was concerned about getting a quality education and, at th t e same time, being able to grow socially and personally. 
Last spring, I fulfilled this wish in a unique way by studying at the Uni­versidad lberoamericana in Mexico City. During that term, I encoun­tered the "other learning ex­perience." Some of these experiences included travel 
throughout the country and various 
social service projects that...have 
left a lasting impression on my per­
sonal education. 

Notre Dame and its confines have 
their proper place in the education 
of the student, but sometimes a stu­
dent such as myself, with different 
educational motives, feels that there 
is something else to be had in the 
process ofeducation. 

The "something else" that I found 
was the opportunity to educate 
myself without the traditional con­
straints of the system placed upon 
me. 

My motives for studying away 
from ND were not clear and exact 
before leaving, but I was determined 
to get a firm gra~p of the Spanish Ian-
KEG SPECIALS $4. 99 case 24 cans 
************************* 
Strohs 

or Strohs Light $6.99 case24cans Generic or $23.99 
************************* 

Generic Light 
Quart Beer Specials 
Old Milwaukee $6.99 Budweiser $8.99

Budweiser $29.99 
Pabst $7.99 CARLO ROSSI 

"'DIMMER WINES 




t=J$4~9 
BIG 

4 LITER Prices Good Thru Oct. 5, 1982 
guage. I also wanted to find out how to adapt to a new culture and to see if I had any prejudices toward these people. 
It was this lesson in adaptation that proved to be the single most im­portant lesson. It has been most beneficial for my personal growth and has a lot of significance in my life. 
Although the classes that I took at the lbero were taught in Spanish, they were not as demanding as I was accustomed to at Notre Dame. The subjects themselves covered a wide range of topics, from fine arts to so­cial service. It was a combination of these classes and the ability to travel, because of more free time, that helped me to further gain from the 

Hall legally entitled to remain on ballot 
KNOX, Ind. ( AP)-Sen. Katie Hall, D-Gary, is legally entitled to remain the candidate to replace the late l'.S. Rep. Adam Benjamin Jr. on the Democratic ballot in November's general election, a Starke Circuit Court judge ruled Monday. 
Judge Marvin D. McLaughlin denied a request by Democratic leaders in Lake, Porter and LaPorte counties for both temporary and permanent injunctions against Mrs. Hall's name being placed on the bal­
lot. 
His action upholds a decision by 
Secretary of State Edwin ]. Simcox, 
which said that as chairman of the 
Ist District congressional commit­
tee. (iary Mayor Richard (i. Hatcher 
had the authority to appoint \1r~. 

experience. 
Many times I wish I were back in Mexico City with my "companeros." From this experience, though, I have come to appreciate Notre Dame and its educational system in a new light. 
I now have a clearer concept of the advantages of each experience with respect to educating the stu­dent. The Notre Dame community gives me the opportunity to relate those concepts in a more personal way. 
I have come to better appreciate this new relationship. I think that my next two years at ND will have more significance and I will he; able to look back on these formative years with exceptional satisfaction. 
llall to replace Benjamin on the general election ballot. 
The three-term congressman was found dead Sept.~ in his Washington apartment. A coroner ruled Ben­jamin died of hardening of the ar­teries. 
However, members of the congressional district committee argued they should have had a say in the nomination. and they tiled suit. 
"This case has been tried on very narrow i~sues, and the court believes that some evidence was ad­mitted in an effort to restrict the issue," McLaughlin said at the 12:20 
p.m. hearing Monday. "As tried, the sole issue is which of .. two statutes apply." 
Hamm's 

continuedji·om page I 
faced with the possibility ofbeing ousted and a new chancellor elected, Schmidt asked for new elec­tions. The opposition would rather try to round up the votes to pick a new chancellor this week than ttee new national elections. 
Schmidt's coalition kll apart when leaders of the liberal Free Democrats decided to withdraw from the government and try to form a coalition with the con­sen·ative Christian Democrats and 
Jack Daniels $7.99 Jim Beam $5.49 Jose' Cvervo Tequila $6.99 Frangelico $11.49 Southern Comfort $6.49 Steel Schnapps r $6.99 
Fire Bailers 
Bacardi 15f Wi!d Turkey 101 Everclear 190.._ 
(grain alcohol) J·W· Dant100"' 
Wine 
J. Roget Champagne 750 ML $1.99 
Riunite Lambrusco 750 ML  $1.99  
Bonifato Bianco 1.5 L  $1.99_  
Zonin Asti 750 ML  $4.99  

Bar Stockers 
Jim Beam Burbon 1. 75 $10.99 rtark Eves Vodka 1. 75 $7.99 Ron Rico Rum 1. 75 $9.99 Lord Calvert 1.75 $9·99 

its sister Christian Social l'nion of Bavaria. If the opposition plan fails, 
Schmidt is likely to ask President Karl Carstens to dissolve Parliament I and call new national elections with­
in 60 days. 

Under West Germany's constitu­tion, there are two methods to replace a chancellor: one is by new ' elections and the other is by an op-1 position majority vote in Parliment · to oust the chancellor and im­mediately vote to approve a succes-' sor. 
$8.59 
$~.99 
$8.99 $6.59 

The Observer Tuesday, September 28, 1982-page 5 
-------------~---~---~--~---------------~-~~----~ ----~--­

Californiastorm. ruins crops. • • 
SA:'-< FRA:'IICISCO ( AP) -Torren­tial rains brought to California by tropical storm Olivia wiped out most of the new C.S. raisin crop and struck hard at canning tomatoes, according to industry tlgures quoted yesterday. "It is a disaster. We are approaching a point now that we can expect total losses for a lot ofin­dividual growers," Fresno County farm adviser Peter Christensen said. "There are going to be some huge losses." 
The unseasonal, harvest-time rains c taught about 90 percent ofthe raisin harvest as the grapes were drying in the fields, Fresno County Agriculture Commissioner Cosmo Insalaco said. 
Raisin growers had hoped for a bumper harvest of more than 260,000 tons following a relatively small harvest last year. 
Ron Kister, president ofthe Raisin Bargaining Association in Fresno, said it looked as if only 25 percent to 30 percent of the raisin crop would be saved. 
Kister said about 94,000 tons of raisins from previous years' harvests were in reserve when the storm:> hit. 
Larry Wharton, vice president of Sun-Maid Growers of California, es­timated the raisin losses at S200 mil­lion. 
"We're talking hundreds of 
millions of dollars here, but I don't 
, , , Rights 

continuedfrom page 1 
The council study found these statistics, used earlier by a. Justice Department official, "highly misleading, though technically ac­curate.... Upon closer examination, 
-a different picture emerges." The 9,000 reviews Reagan men­tioned are those required each time a state or local government covered by the Voting Rights Act makes a change in its election law. Such automatic reviews have been par­ticularly numerous in the wake of the 19HO census that forced widespread redistricting. Furthermore, the council said, the administration filed only two new cases in the voting rights field during its first 20 months. compared to nl.'arly a Jozl.'n during the first 12 nHnllh!-> <>I tlw <.artl·r administration. 
Farm labor president to speak 
Farm Labor Organizing Commit­tee President Baldemar Valasquez, who was recently involvt>d in a non­publicized hunger strike to demonstrate his commitment to the formation of the union, will be speaking on The Struggle of Migrant Farmworkers in the Midwest on Weds., Sept. 29 at H pm. in the Uni­versity of Notre Dame Library Auditorium. 
think anywhere near a billion" in overall farm losses. California Farm Bureau spokesman Clark Biggs said. 
Members of the Raisin Bargaining Association met yesterday and withdrew its offer price of s 1,19'> a ton. Kister said the group would meet again Oct. 5 and might set a new price then. 
The sun and breezes needed to dry the crops came out Sunday and stayed yesterday, but the National Weather Service reported that raisin drying conditions in the Fresno area would be slow. 
The rains also threatened the can­ning tomatoes with rot and mold. California produces most of the na­tion's crop and about 20 percent of that was in the fields when the rains came. 
"We're going to lose a significant amount of that 20 percent," Biggs said, and the loss "is going to mean the prices at least stay up where they are. 
Figs, alfalfa'hay, cotton and wine grapes also suffered damage, In­salaco said, although it was too early to determine how much. 
About half the state's wine grape crop had been harvested before the rain hit and most of the rest seemed to be free ofthe bunch rot and mold that growers had feared. 
"Just looking at the vineyards, we didn't see too much damage on them," said Harry McCracken, Sonoma County agriculture com­missioner, adding there might be a 10 to 20 percent loss ofthin-skinned white grapes such as chardonnay or riesling. 
But wine grapes in the northern San Joaquin Valley are displaying "a lot of rot, and the sugar is way down," Stanislaus County Agriculture Commissioner Hugh Sinclair said. "Some wineries aren't accepting some loads." 
...damages hotnes, 



washes outroads 
BISHOP, Cali[ (AP)-Dozens of Officials said they doubted an people were still isolated by washed earthquake last week contributed to out roads yesterday in the rainy High the failure ofthe dam. Sierra as floodwaters that had burst Authorities warned residents of 
through an earthen dam receded West Bishop to boil tap water be­from damaged homes and highways. cause of possible contamination 
More rain fell yesterday but au­where pipes were ripped open. thorities said the new showers Hundreds of workers, i,ncluding weren't a serious threat and forecas­crews from the California Conserva­ters said skies would be clear today. tion Corps and a nearby Department Hundreds of people who were of Corrections minimum-security evacuated yesterday when the t camp, shored up homes with World War !-era dam burst returned sandbags and tried to assess damage. to their homes. At Cardinal Village resort in 
The water cut a V-shaped notch in Aspendell, 1 H miles west of Bishop, the Southern California Edison dam owner Nadine Stratton said the dam at North Lake 25 miles west of Bish­break flooded eight of 1~ cabins, op and spilled into Bishop Creek, parts of the main lodge and the road overflowing the banks. Separate to Bishop. flooding at Big Pine Creek damaged "We had ~0 people stranded, no eight homes and washed out a small way to get them in or out," she said. bridge. "Our road is gone, our sewer is gone, 
The Big Pine Indian Reservation and it's going to cost thousands and and the Dixon and exclusive Aspen­thousands ofdollars to repair things. dell areas about 300 miles north of "It's chaos here," she said. "On top Los Angeles took the brunt of the of everything our electricity was flooding. No injuries were reported. gone for 1 2 hours so we all slept 
"It was caused strictly by the huddled in front of the tlreplace." rain," said Dave Walizer of the lnyo County Disaster Office. "It was a "The water is receding slowly," very old dam and it was earthen." Waizer said. "There are clouds, but it Edison engineer Robert Burks said looks like a pretty cold storm in the this year's unusually high runoff mountains and it should snow above from snows melting in the moun­6,000 to ".000 feet. Snow is not 
tains was also re!->ponsible. going to runotlnow." 



r----------------,
t Ihe Obseaer t= 
t MANDATORY WORKSHOP f 
t for all Hews Reporters t 
t t
t Tues. 6:30 t t Larortune t t Little Theatre t 


attent1on Now Accepting Applications for Senior Formal Committees May be picked up Tuesday, Sept. 28 through Thursday, Sept. 30 at LaFortune or St. Mary's Student Activities 
Applications due 5:00pm Friday, Oct. 1 

The Drinking Test 
Editor's Note: This quiz is the first in a serit·s offour to appear 
through Friday. Answers are below.  
Part 1-Alcohol Knowledge  
I. Mixing different kinds of drinks <:an increase  
the t:ffect of :~Jcohol.  T  F  
2. The average four-ounce drink of wine is less  
intoxicating than the average one-ounce  
drink of hard liquor.  T  F  
3. A can of beer is less intoxicating than an  
average drink of hard liquor.  T  F  
4. A cold shower can help sober up a person.  T  F  
5. A person can be drunk and not stagger or slur  
his speech.  T  F  
6. It is easy to tell if people are drunk even if you  
don't know them well.  T  F  
7. A person drinking on an empty stomach will  
get drunk faster.  T  F  
8. People's moods help determine how they are  
affected by alcohol.  T  F  
9. A person who is used·to drinking can drink  
more.  T  F  
10. A person who weighs less can get drunk faster  
than a heavier person.  T  F  
11. Out of every ten traffic deaths, up to five are  
caused by drinking drivers.  T  F  
12. The surest way to tell if a person is legally  
drunk is by the percent of alcohol in the  
blood  T  F  
13. People who are drunk cannot compensate for  
it when they drive.  T  F  
14. In a fatal drunk driving accidettt, the drunk is  
usually not the one killed.  T  F  
15. Drinking black coffee can help sober up a per­ 
son.  T  F  
16. Alcoholic beverages are a stimulant.  T  F  
Scoring: Correct Answers llankings•  
13 or more fop 25%  
11 or 12 2nd quartile  
9 or 10 3rd quartile  
8 or less Lowest quartile  

• CompareJ to control sample ofPennsylvania high school students. 
Answers: (1) F;, ..:) F; (3) F; (4) F; (S) T; (6) F; (7) T; (8) T; t':-l) F; (10) T; (11) T; (12)'f; (13)T; ( 14) F; (15) F; 
(16) F. 


• ;l 

Business & TechnologyTuesday, September 28, 1982 ­
page 6 

r 
---~ ------------~------------------~--~----------------­
I I 
Inefficiency

plagues fed systellls 
BY TERENCE HUNT 
Associated Press Writer 

If you're still wondering if the 
federal government runs efficiently, 
the Reagan Administration suggests 
you consider this: 

The Navy spent s 1 50 million and 
12 years trying to improve its 
payroll system, and still has a 50 per­
cent error rate. 

Moreover, the bureaucracy has 
350 different payroll systems and 
j25 separate accounting systems, 
and they're all basically incom­
patible with each other. Only 60 
percent of the accounting systems 
meet federal standards for accuracy, 
reliability and security. 

The ratio of personnel specialists 
in governmer.t is three times as high 
as it is in private business. There is 
no accurate estimate how many con~ 
sultants the government has on the 
payroll. 

Treasury accounting clerks have 
to sift through :'>.000 pounds of ad­
ding machine tape and forms each 
month to pay the government's bills 
because the information isn't 
available on computerizedmagnetic 
tape. 

More than 2,:'>00 administrative 
payment centers are spread out 
across the country, processing more 
than 700 million documents, ill a 
rate of two to I H documents an 
hour. 

The administration cited those 
examples Wednesday as proof the 
government doesn't operate very 
well from a management standpoint, 
compared with private business. 
"We've reached the stage right now where management within the government is becoming extremely difficult, simply because of the fact the administrative systems haven't kept pace with just those that are available in the private sector," said Joseph R. Wright, deputy director of the Office of Management and Budget. 
Overall, he said, the government 
is weighed down by "a morass ofsys­
tems that arc frequently incom­
patible, redundant or obsolete." 
Martha Hesse, another OMB 
official, said the government's 
management systems "are so bad it's 
almost impossible for (agency 
chiefs) to manage." 

.To combat the problem, the ad~ 
ministration unveiled a new 
program to restructure manage­
ment and administrative systems 
throughout the government. 

Wright said the job of planning 
and implementing changes will take 
at least six years -thus the 
program's name "Reh>rrn 'HH." 
ByJOHN M. HIGGINS 
Senior StaffReporter 
The Business Advisory Council completed its annual meeting last friday after reviewing new graduate business programs and considering plans for the establishment ofa busi­ness research center. 
Unfamiliar to many students, the council is one of four groups which advise University President Father Theodore Hesburgh on matters dealing with respective colleges. The BAC consists of 60 executives from various companies who offer insight into what business organiza­tions would like to see in a business. school and its graduates. 
"Our focus is on improving and expanding the business school," BAC Chairman Thomas Grojean of Tiger International explained. "We try to ensure that the necessary resources are made available." 
The current emphasis is placed on the graduate program, Grojean said. "New enrollment is down to 60 this 
year  from  90. We  would  like  to  
reach  250  (for  the  two-y ear  
program.)"  

One major intluence of the coun~ cil has been on the new Executive MBA program, Assistant Dean Vin~ cent Raymond said. The new program is designed for veteran business executives who live in a 
I 00-to 120-mile radius of South Bend. Students attend day-long classes on alternating Fridays and Saturdays to fulfill course require­ments in two years. 

There will be an important meeting 
for all juniors interested in working on 
)unJOR PaREnts Weekenb 
Thursday, Sept. 30 7:00pm Liiiie Theatre, LaFortune 





Changessuggested 
for business school 
~ 
' 
' 
Economic Update 
General Motors Corp. and Toyota Motor Co. ex­ecutives have ended four days of negotiations on a proposed joint venture in the United States, a Toyota spokesman said. The spokes­man refused to divulge any details of the talks between Jack Smith, GM's International production manager, and Toyota's Vice Presi­dent Toshio Morita. Kyodo News Agency said the talks centered on GM's idle plant at Fremont, Calif., a candidate site for the joint 'enture, and the degree of U.S.-made parts to be incorporated into what would be a jointly produced car. Kyodo said it was likely Toyota would come up with a decision on the partnership with GM by next month. -AP 
Oil imports are not likely to decline greatly by the year 2000 unless vigorous efforts are made toward conservation and use of alternate fuels, according to a study by the Office of Technology Assessment. The congressional agency said oil imports could be as high as 4 million to 5 million barrels a day at the end ofthe centuty, "unless imports are reduced by a stagnant U.S. economy or by a resumption of rapidly rising oil prices." U.S. petroleum imports averaged 5.4 million barrels a day in 19tH. The three options for cutting oil imports suggested by the study were: increased automobile efficiency, greater synthetic fuels production and reduc­tion ofoil use in utility and industrial boilers. -AP 


all Street Update 
A late rally in blue-chip issues helped turn a stock-market slide into a narrowly mixed performance Monday in the lightest trading in six weeks. The DowJones average of.30 industrials, which fell 15.27 points from its 13-month high over the three previous sessions, reversed course late in the day to post a gain of 1.38 points and finish at 920.90. Slightly more stocks fell in price than rose on the New York Stock Exchange, but 76 issues rose to 52-week highs and only three slid to new lows. Volume on the NYSE reached 44.84 
million shares, down from 54.60 million Friday, and the lowest since 
44.72 million shares changed hands on Aug. 1.~. -AP 


"We asked the council what they thought when we were designing the program, Raymond said. "Mostly, they responded to ideas we had already decided on. They were very helpful." 
The council was also presented with plans for the establishment ofa business research center. Cirojean stated that such a facility would as­sist faculty research and greatly en~ hance the quality and reputation of the graduate school. "The major aspect of business school research is a solid database," Raymond said. "This database, -the first prong of the plan, is already on its way here. We discussed with the council where additional resources would be obtained." 
Raymond emphasized the ad­visory nature ofthe council. "No im~ mediate decisions were expected," he said. "These things take a great deal oftime and planning. This is just the seed." Raymond added that plans for funding of the center were yet to be finalized. 
"It's a difficult position," one col­lege member commented. "On the one hand we want their input, on the other we don't want them to inter­fere too much in our work." 
At one point, BAC members met with a number ofstudents to discuss job opportunities and placement procedures. :Vtany of the executives were pessimistic about the job market f(>r prospective graduates. "We're hiring only replacements," Thomas Rolfs, chairman of Amnity Leather Products, said. "\1\'e're not really investing today in tomorrow. It may be shortsighted, but we feel we may be overinvested in today and want to reap some of the benetlts." 
The council members insisted 
that research into prospective 
employers and knowledge of com­
puters is essential for those seeking a 
job. "Know your company in the 
beginning," Council member John 
Ryan recommended. "You should 
spend two-thirds of your time doing 
research and one~third interview­
ing." 
Some students complained that 
they had expected to be asked about 
problems in the business college 
'llld were disappointed. "It was nice, 
friendly advice on getting a job but 
not much else," one said. "I thought 
we would at least be able to get in a 
couple ofcomments about the busi­
ness school." 
Raymond explained that no stu­
dent input was sought. "There were 
no items that really asked for student 
input," he said. "They were not 
perplexed by any issues where stu­
dent <:omme!'!~ ~·;;;_;needed."

I i 



Editorials 
Tuesday, September 28, 1982-page 7 
Drunkards, fools 
The serious problem of drunk driving has once again struck home .as two Notre Dame students were suddenly struck from be­hind by a speeding car early Sunday. On September 18, another student was injured during a similar hit-and-run at the intersection ofCorby and Eddy. The driver ofthe vehicle was apprehended and charged with, among other counts, driving while intoxicated. If there is one consolation concerning these two tragedies it is that the students involved were not killed. This is little comfort, however, for who knows how soon these potential murderers be­hind the wheel will actually kill one of us. Because the three 
injured students are part ofthis community, we all share their pain and suffering and that of their families and friends. But an even more painful aspect is that these scenes occur throughout the country every minute of every day. Last year, drunk drivers killed over 30,000 Americans and maimed thousands more. We read about these sad incidents daily, about fathers and mothers, sons and daughters, about entire families being wiped out because of reckless, careless, drunken people. But because these tragedies happen so often, we tend to read these stories, shake our heads in 
disgust, and quickly turn to the comics page. 
Many ofus have suffered the griefofhaving the life ofa loved one ended by a drunken driver or causing their own death by getting behind the wheel ofa car while drunk. But what are we doing totry and prevent future deaths? 
How many times have you driven your car after downing six or seven beers? Too many ofus don't think twice about doing this. We feel in complete control ofour faculties and vehicle. We are so sure of ourselves that we pass off the possible consequences of our driving while intoxicated with a wonderful cliche, "It could never happen to me." The driver of the car that seriously injured Kerin Mannion and Elizabeth Mcinerny early Sunday morning probably thought the same thing. 
The responsibility lies with all ofus. The solution is as simple as 
not drinkmg that next beer or, more importantly, not serving it to some blithering drunk whom we know must drive or walk home. More likely, however, the eternal god alcohol will ultimately win. And we will all, once again, ultimately lose. 
Massacre demands explanation 
It has always been popularly hdkvt:d that on­ly thost: who have something to hide will oppost: inquiry and investigation. Wht:n susp~:cted organizt:d crimt: figures t:xercise tht: tlfth amendment right to silence during Con­gressional investigations, for exampk, most of us cynically lahd such tt:stimony as proof of guilt. Oftt:n, tht: cynics are correct. 
Thomas Melsheimer 
Guest Columnist 
Israel's rdusal to open any sort of public in­quin· into the Beirut killings raises similar issu~s. Jf this heinous tragt:dy ·really occurred through no fault of tht: lsradis, would not an inquiry snvt: to broadcast such facts to tht: world' In light of the t:vt:nts of rect:nt months, kw could disputt: lsrad's nt:t:d for some good public rdations. Tht: fact that Prim~: \1inistn Begin has r~:fust:d any inquiry with characteris­tic obstinancy and narrowness sugg~:sts some amount of Isradi complicity in the massacrc. Ev~:n without Begin';; intractibiliq·, however, tht:. available rt:cord of events is damning 
~:nough. 
The culpahk n~:gligenct: of allowing the his­torically barbaric Phlangist militiamen into tht: camps has been adequatdy descibe::d in tht: prt:ss. Israel's initial dt:nial of any knowh:dgt: of rh~: massacrt: ti>llowed bv a statement that ls­radi soldkrs trinl to stop it smacks of Orwel­lian :'IJ~:wspeak. Finally. Deknst: ,\1inister Sharon's statement that the Israeli soldiers asked the militiamen to kav~: the refugee camps on a Friday and allowed them to stay another 2-t hours hardly absolves Israel of any culpability. 
mander that ,a Palestinian woman had ap· proached him screaming of mass murders taking plac~: in the camps. According to the sol­dier, his commandn rt:plied, "It's all right. Don't worry." Tht: Times further reported that tht: lsradi army has ordert:d soldiers to rdrain from making any more comm~:nts to the prt:ss. Truth is a casualty ofwar and cover-ups. 

In the past, it has bt:t:n impossible to he criti-increases each year, more and more students cal of Israel without raising the spectre of anti· must move out of the dorms to accomodatt: Semitism, thus fossilizing any meaningful tht:m. While we hav~: y~:t to fact: the draft-like critical discuss;on. Crks of"Have you forgotten prospect ot an oft campus lottery, those who 
the Holocaust'" follow close on tht: ht:ds ofanv criticism. But tht: ev~:nts of rect:rH weeks ma)· lead us to ask the same question of lsrad. Begin's <L~serti<m that armed soldiers on!)· 100 yards away from tht: sight ofmany ofthe killings cannot be held responsible for anything only st:nTs to echo the ~:qually pitiful statements somt: years ago by (ierman civilians in Dachau and Auschwitz. 
:'llo one will deny the unfathomable sufkrings ofthe Jewish people in World War II or of their inspiringly courageous eft(Jrts to establish a sate place to call home. Israel has a right both to ex­ist and to defend her lands from tt:rrorist ~:ncroachment. Rights, however. are not un­limitt:d, even ti>r lsrad. To establish credibility in this world, the\· must make initiatives toward peact:. 
Presidt:nt Reagan and the Arabs have hoth of· kred plans ti>r peace; Israel has only put t(Jrth intransigence. In the wake of the Beirut mas­sacre the world looks to Israel ti>r some sign of shame and ti>rthrightness. The picture it receive.~ is onI)· of a stubborn and embittered Prime :\linister and a bloodthirsty Deknse \lin· ister. These two grossly misguided men threaten to lead Israel closer to destruction 

7he .Veu· York Times reported on Friday of than Arahll ever did. An in4uiry into the slayings last week various statements made hy Israeli would show the world a sign of Israel's in­soldiers who claim to have witnessed somt: of tegrity. Perhaps Israel is afraid that it might also the slayings. One soldier r~:ported to his com-show the truth. 

lim Notre Dame students 
x-(lQ 

Let me be tht: last to wdcome all of the 2065 new fac~:s at Notre Dame this vt:ar. Whether freshmen, transfers, or readmitted stud~:nts, you are all multi-talented people with many ideas, values, and ambitions. llnfor­tunatdy, there art: just too many of you. 

Keith Picher 
Short of Profundity 
While overpopulation at Notre Dame has not )Tt r~:ached catastrophic proportions, we have all felt the uncomfortabk aftereffects ofa st~:adily increasing studt:nt enrollment. Pt:r­haps a few ~:xampks will prickle your memories. 
Upperclassmen, havt: you found yoursdf waiting in lines mort: often and for longer periods of time than a few years ago' Wheth~:r at tht: dining halls, in tht: Administration Building, or wht:rnTr wt: ~:njoy the latest Notre Dame pastime, lines seem to bt: one in­dicator ofcrowding. 
Perhaps you were on the waiting list ti>r a room on campus. As you all must know by now, freshmen (justifiably) have priority. They are all guaranteed a room, though some may have to make do with a study loung~:, kitcht:nettt:, bathtub, or closet for a week or tWo at the outset. As the number of freshmen 
want to mo\·e onto the campus must spend more time --on the nebulous waiting list, hoping that one day their number might pop up. Meanwhile, mo-rt: and more students art: ti>rced to tlnd oft--campus lodging in less and less desirable locales. Niles and Osceola may he nict: communities compared to certain places in South Bend, hut few students really 
want to live there. 
Tht: crowding probkm has ~:xtendt:d into tht: spht:rt: of studies as well. finding a desk in tht: library can, at times, be a task in itself. The classroom often takt:s on a sporting-t:vent at­mosphere, where t:yt:s strain to ge::t a glimpst: of what's going on. While tht: student/teacher ratio is not horrendous here at Notrt: Dame ( t:spt:cially if you havt: a st:minar or classics courst: in your scheduk ), it shouldn't bt: ignort:d in the fact: of a constantly increasing studt:nt population. 
Maybe you're a frt:shman who'd like to pur­chast: baskt:tball tickt:ts. Once upon a timt:, freshmt:n could buy t:ntirt: ticket packages, not having to worry about missing big games likt: liCLA, Indiana, Kentucky, or Dt: Paul. Thost: days art: long gone. Nowadays fresh­men are cont~:nt to get any package. 
Growth has het:n a continuous proct:ss her~: at Notre Dame ~:ver since the university ex­panded from Old Colkge and tht: Log Chapel in I H-t2. Of course, growth in tht: real st:nse is really a lksburghian phenomt:non. Evt:r since Notrt: Dame decidt:d to go coed in 19...,2, tht: school has ~:xpanded both acadt:mically and physically. An "t:difact: complt:x" mentality has hrokt:n out over the last ft:w )Tars to ac­comodate the intlux of frt:shmt:n and transft:r 
stud~:nts. 
Growth has ct:rtainly not bet:n a bad thing. It has impmved tht: quality of education, tht: quality and div~:rsity of tht: studt:nt body, and many otht:r asp~:cts of lite ht:rt: at Notre Dam~:; how~:v~:r, tht:rt: will come a time, if it hasn't com~: alrt:ady, wht:n growth will he harmful and not benetkial to tht: stud~:nts, faculty, or the school. Notrt: Dam~: could stand to karn much from tht: ~:xampks {>f small w~:st~:rn­New England schools which have ~~;tahlbhed and maintained acadt:mic ~:xct:llen.:t: without yklding to tht: prt:ssurt:s of ~:xpansionism. Quality can ~:xist without quantity. 
So lt:t's till up tht: Pasqut:rillas, build a kw mort: buildings, admit a ft:w mort: frt:shmen and transfers, and call it quits. 


Editorial Board Department Managers 
The ()IJ,err·er rs :1n independent ncw-,p:Ipcr publrshed by the.: students of the 
Editor-in-Cbief..............................Michael Monk 
Business Manager .............................Tony Aiello
l!niH'r,ity of Notre D:1me duLac .tnd S:1int M:1ry's Collc~c. It does P.Ot nt"'.es-,arrly 
Managing Editor................Ryan Ver Berkmoes 
Controller.............................................Eric Schulz
reflt"lt the pola it·\ of the admmi-;tratron of either mstitution. The nL'ws ~~ report­
Executil'f:' News Editor.........................Kelli flint 
Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owen
ed J~ .u curately and .ts objt"'. trvdy as I'O'i'>ihle. Editon.ds rel'rt:o;ent the opinion oi 
.\MCExecutit'e Editor............ Margaret fosmoe 
Production Manager..................Maura Murphy
.1 m.lJonty of the Ed1torial Board. <.o.nment.lrie,, opinions and ktters are the views 
Sports Editor...................................Chris Needles 
Circulation Manager..........................Ray lnglin
lli tht·H author\. ( olumn S('3<e i-; avadahle to all members of the <ommunrty. and 
Editorials Editor .............................Paul McGinn 
Systems Manager...........................Bruce Oakley
the f rre expression of vJ.rymg opifllons on campu>, through letter), i> ent.oun.ged. 
Features Editor ...................................Tari Brown Photo Editor ................................... Rac:1el Blount
P.O.Rux Q, ~utrc name, 1:\ ..bSS6 (! 19) H9-S.~O.~ Founded November 3, 1966 
------~-----------­


~j)()~tS=l=l=~==1=·(3~=S==============================T=u=e=sd=ay='=se=p=te*m=b=e=r=28=,=19=8=2===p=ag=e:::8 

lh 'The ( JIJsoTer and /he Associated Press 
Rich Hunter's Irish soccer team is traveling to Chicago today to take on the Ramblers of Loyola University. Kickoff is set for 4 p.m. Notre Dame, 4-3-1, will play at home Friday night against Dayton. -The Observer 
A rescheduled SMC tennis match against 
Manchester College will be played at the Angela Athletic Facility courts this afternoon at 3. -The Observer 
The Saint Mary's swimmingteam will hold an 
organizational meeting tonight at 7 in the Regina Hall lounge. Coach Scott Trees will preside, and all interested are invited to attend. 
The Observer 

New Coach Mike Rousewill hold an organization­al meeting tonight at 7 in the Angela Athletic facility lounge for all those interested in playing Saint Mary's basketball. -The Observer 
John Sweeney andJoejohnsonwm be the 
guests tonight on WSND's (AM-64 )Speaking ofSports. Listeners are invited to call and talk to the guests at 239·6400. The show begins at I0. -The Observer 
The Martial Arts Association will hold a second or­ganizational meeting on Thursday evening at 6:~0 in Room 219 of The Rock. The instructors will he present to field questions. All in­terested parties, especially beginners, are invited to attend. For more information, call 8241. -The ObsertJer 
Joe Yonto and other ND football coaches will he offering a clinic tonight at 7:~0 on "How to Watch football." The lecture, which will include film analysis and a question-and answer session, will he held in the ACC Auditorium. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC ski teatnwill hold an organizational meeting tomorrow night at 7:~0 in the ACC Auditorium. Enter Gate 3 for the meeting. for more information contact Sean Chandler at 288-2204. -The Observer 
Thursday's women's volleyball matches will be played in the ACC Pit, not at Bethel College as previously reported. The Irish women will take on Bethel, Saint francis and Tri-State at 6 p.m. -The Observer 

BASEBALL 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
East  
w  L  Pet.  GB  
x-St  LOUIS  9t  66  580  
Ph1ladelph1a  84  72  538  65  
Montreal  83  73  532  75  
Pittsburgh  8t  75  5t9  95  
Ch1cago  70  87  446  2t  
New York  63  93  404  27 5  
West  
Los Angeles  85  7t  545  
Allan Ia  85  71  545  
San Franc1sco  84  72  538  
San 01ego  78  78  500  7  
Houston  75  8t  481  10  
Ctnc1nnatt  57  98  368 27 5  
x-cllnched d1V1S1Dn IItie  

Yesterday's Results St Lou1s 4. Montreal2 Ch1cago 8. Ph1iadelph1a 1 New York 4. Pittsburgh 1 Atlanta 7. San Franc1sco 0 Cmc1nna11 6. Los Angeles 1 
Houston 7. San D1ego 3 
Today's Games St LOUIS (Forsch 14·9) at Montreai(Rogers 17·8). n Ch1cago (Bird 9· 1 2) at Ph1ladelph1a (Chnstenson 8­10). n Pittsburgh (Candelana 1 3-7) at New York (lynch 3· 6). n Atlanta (Perez 2·4) at San Franc1sco (Laskey 12-11 ). n C1ncrnnat1(Pastore 8-10) at Los Angeles (Welch 15· 10). n Houston (Knepper 5· 1 3) at San D1ego (Lollar 1 4-9). n 
See BOARD, page 10 

Classifieds  The Observer wtll accept classrfreds Mon· day through Fnday 10 am to 4.30 p m However classrfteds to appear rn the next 1ssue must be rece1ved by 3 p.m. the busrness day pnor to 1nsert1on All classrfteds must be prepaid. erther rn person or through the ma1l  
NEED RIDERS TO EASTERN PENN· FOR THOSE WHO MISSED THE MICHI­SYLVANIA VIA ROUTE 80, CLOSE TO GAN STATE LOTTERY; I have two Michigan State GA's I'd like to trade lorNOTICES THE N.J. BORDER LEAVIN.G THIS WEDNESDAY NIGHT SO ACT NOW. either Arizona GA's or Miami student CALL MIKE AT 277-4300 tlx. I can make up the dltferen~ In cash. Plea..contact Michele-·x3793.IS YOUR HAIR GETTING IN THE WAY OF YOUR STUDIES?? CALL MICHOLE NEED RIDE TO MICHIGAN STATE THERE ONCE WAS A GIRL FROM N.D.FOR A HAIRCUT TODAY! ONLY $4 FOR GAME. WILL PAY FOR GAS, ETC WHOSE PHONE WAS 7983GUYS AND $6 FOR GIRLS BEST TO PHONE 6261,200 GRACE SHE NEEDED GA'SCALL AFTER 3 AT 7850 · Need nde to MILWAUKEE lor the SO HELL WOULDN'T RAISE FOR THE GAME VERSUS MIAMI·EEWORD PROCESSING SYSTEM $2995 weekend of Oct. 1·3 Can leave anytime (had to make it rhyme. you know--01ane64K Mrcrocomputer,letter quality printer. Thurs or Fnday Call JIM at 8891 WILL pay b1g bucks. the parental units areword process1ng software, CP/M, Bas1c very wealthy!) Call277-7720 nde needed to DetrOit 9/30 afternoon lor Who concert wt\1 shr usu and/or sell mn WILL PAY BIG MONEY FOR 4 PENNNEED A RIDE TO NEW YORK CITY over fir t1x: Ed 1521 STATE GA TIX. CALL 312·565--5959fall break··WIII pay call G1na 6553 COLLECT AND ASK FOR STEVE JAWS!! Wed & Thur: 7,9·15,11:30: Eng LONGLEY. Aud.JAWS!! FOR SALE Trade. 2 Anzona students ttx cash For 2 Anzona GA s Call Scott xll60 WORD PROCESSING SYSTEM. $2995 I NEED PENN ST GAs M1ke 3261 orLOST/FOUND 64K Mtcrocomputer, letter quality pnnter. 3263 word processmg software. CP/M. Baste Call277-7720 I NEED 1 ARIZONA stud t1c M1ke 3261 or LOST A black W1111arn Barry des1gner 3263 facket REWARD offered 1f found CALL CHAIR. LOVESEAT. TABLE, BED. AND PAT orTONY-8744 DRESSER FOR SALE $130 287-5469 I need two Miami tickets.LOST 1 PAIR OF GLASSES IN BLACK Please callCASE, BETWEEN 9/16 & 9/18 IF Jebat8630.--liOUND PLEASE CALL JOE AT 277­0885.• TICKETS Thank you. LOST: Small cross 1n the Eng1neenng 1 truly need 4 Mtamt and Anzona GA ttx for BU1Id1ng area Please call 1187 need 2 GAs for ARIZONA game call Ch1cago area Chnst1an Brothers arid U S Lauren (smc)5072 Navy personnel If you can help out this LOST: One black lizard skin fountain pen. poor soul and save htm from eternal lost 1n the Library or outs1de of 11 Pen has NEED TWO OR MORE ARIZONA TICK­damnat1on call John at 1 580 great sentimental value Please help me ETS!!!!! PLEASE CALL MICHELE AT in th1s matter Call Rob at3479 if you have 3793 IF YOU CAN HELP Need Mtamt and Penn St ltx btg ltme Call seen tt. 1627 NEED TIX TO MIAMI AND ANY OTHER lost Pa~r of gold wife rim glasses on HOME GAME CHRIS-1730 FOR SALE PLENTY 'MIAMI TIX! BEST Thursday. 9/23, between the Grotto and OFFER CALL x1535 Hayes-Healy. Reward Call Bob 282­NEED G.A s Miam1,Anzona.Penn State 1857 PLEASE call GREG 234-4234$$$ MSU TIX FOR SALE CALL MARK 1739 FOUND; Connell Trimber I have your HEY all you crazy w1ld people out there !! PLEASE HELP ME I desperatelv need checkbook call Mark 8332 We need Tickets and w1ll pay you all the up to 4 GAs for the M1am1 game W1ll pay money we have lor 2 Penn St GA's and 2 $$ Call Oebb1e at 284·431 1 Miami GA's Make two really sweet g~rls an offer. your mom wrll be proud! call very I w1ll pay big bucks lor Mrchrgan State trx nch c1ndy or much well to do kat1e at2948 Call Dave 3501 FOR RENT NOW I HAVE 1 MICH ST TICKET. WOULD Need 2 GAs and 1 Student T1ck for LIKE TO TRADE FOR MIAMI GAS AND Furnished home 2 blocks from campus M1am1 Call Paul3405 PAY DIFFERENCE CALL BRIAN-2t87 also country house 1 0 mins from N 0 Call277-3604 or 288-0955 YOI I need 4 tickets for Penn State Bruno Need M1ch1gan State T1x! and the rest of the Mob from Ph1lly w1ll do Several GA s wanted for road lnp to East CABINS FOR RENT · 45 m1nutes from me tn if I cion t get them Money ts no Lans1ng this weekend Please call 6931 1f Notre Dame 616·424-5817 problem. Call Fran 4385 you can help need t1x for m1ch1gan st call Ed 8944 Very wealthy tndtvtdual needs· 2MiamiG.A.a Need 2 G A s to the Penn State gaGame andWANTED can rade up to 4 G.A s lor the Miam1 2 Penn St. G.A.s game Call712-755·3156 day or 3277 Call Pat at 8652 Need 4 GA s and 2 students for Anzona Need nders to U of ILLINOIS Fn , Oct flo NEED ARIZONA TICKETS SOMETHING Call SMC 4451 Sun.. Oct 3. Call Mike at1802 WICKED FEEL FREE TO CONTACT THE RENOUN ED SOPIN SUSIE AT I NEED ;? MIAMI GAS P~EASE CALL Need nde to WORCESTER, MASS OR 277-0865 TRACY X8009 BOSTON for Oct Break Call Sue at 284­5193 NEED ONE LOWSY TICKET TO ANY NEED"' One. two. three M1ami GAs DUMB FOOTBALL GAME Call Jim-277­Parents com1ng long way for frst NO needed tutor 1n 1st year spamsh call after 2787 game Please Call Ray at 1 177 4, 936-9818. CALL ME !!! NEED 2 GAs FOR MIAMI Needed 2 T1x to Penn State $ $ $ Bob · RIDE NEEDED TO THE NEW YORK GAME WILL PAY$$$. SUSAN 6983 1723 CITY FOR OCTOBER BREAK----WILL LEAVE WHENEVER AND WILL SHARE NEED 2 MIAMI GAs CALL BRIAN at wanted 2 GAS to MIAMI game Jack1e THE USUAL CALL CHRIS AT x3510 OR 1165 3464 x8573 ANYTIME HELP! I have two SISters who want to see HELP' I NEED 1 STUDENT MIAMI & 1 NEEDED: RIDE for 2 to U ol Mich -Ann these famous NO football games & STUDENT PENN TtK· CALLJOANIE AT Arbor Oct 1-3 call: Mike 4388 or Steve pan1es Need 2 MIAMI GAs to g1ve them 2244 1857 a chance Call BILL at 1024 FOR SALE · ND-M1ch Slate ilx Good NEED RIDE TO PURDUE, this fnday af­I NEEDMIAMIGASDESPERATELY I M seats W1ll be at THE OBSERVER off1ce ternoon. will share usual expenses call ALSO LOADED WITH CASH CALL at 4 p m on Wednesday. Bnng cash Or BRIAN at 1064. 3075 call 233-4051  One MSU stud t1x for sale Call Joe al 1208 I w1ll pay 100$ for four M1ami GAs or two GAs and two student ticket Call George at 8684 Need 4 GA s to M1am1 & Anzona Call 7970 Need 4 M1am1 GA s Call 1225 Padd1es from the Old Country have traveled to see the F1ght1ng lnsh Wrll pay BIG $$$ for 4 Anzona or Penn State 11x Call John at 1570 after 11 p m I NEED MICHIGAN TICKETS1 DAVE 1773 1 need one t1cket tor m1ch1gan state game call Art at277-8371 PERSONALS VOLUNTEER -BABY SITTERS NEEDED Parenting for Peace and Justtce. Workshop. Saturday. Oct 2 Ch1ldcare available to parttc1pattng famtl!es In­terested m servtng as a sttter from 9:30 am · 3.30 pm Please contact VSO x239· 5293 REMINDER., THEOLOGY MAJOR MEETING: today, 4:30 p.m. 103 O'Shaughnessy MARKETING CLUB TICKET RAFFLE 2 GAS FOR MIIIMI AND ARIZONA GAMES CHANCES 3/$1 FOR MARKETING CLUB MEMBERS AND 2/$1 FOR OTHERS TO ENTER CON· TACT MATT WESTOVER 1277-4305) TIM THIRY (1651). MARGARET MCCARTHY (2909). OR JIM 0 HARA (3275) DRAWING HELD THE WED­NESDAY BEFORE EACH GAME A1TENTION: FRESHMEN OF REGINA Remember to vote for Deb Vondra..k .p,...._ and Uaa Seidel. V.P. We'"' lor you! Desperate for 2 Penn Sl GAs! Good $$$ Call Tom. 1417 Need nde to Bloomington. IN weekend of Oct 1 Will share costs Cindy 284-4064 OHmaGOSHIIII I thought I had tickets; now I don't. I need Two MIAMI tickets. If you have tickets, please sell them fo me. Call Jeb at 8630 UNITED WAY UNITED WAY SEPT 26· OCT 3 GIVE YOUR FAIR SHARE $2 00 DAN KEUSAL AND FRIENDS RETURN TO THE NAZZ · FRI OCT 8 10 00·1 1 00 UNITED WAY THANKS TO YOU IT WORKS PLEASE GIVE YOUR FAIR .SHARE $2 00 HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY DENISE ANN 0 BRIEN!!! NOW THAT YOU RE 21. DO YOU THINK YOU LL REMEMBER LAST NAMES OR TONIGHT? MAYBE I CAN FLY YOU BACK TO 0 C AND THE 21ST AMENDMENT? ANYWAY. I M SO HAP· PY YOU ARE FINALLY LEGAL. BRIDGET S WILL NEVER BE THE SAME AFTER THURSDAY NIGHTIII LOVE. KATHLEEN P S WHAT SUP DOC?  Dear Pat. MoMo, L1sa. Oebb1. G1ana. Dear Barbre Tnc1a. Jets1e. Bnan. Mary. AnnMarre. You are Sflll the hght of my hfe. my Anne. Sheryl, Sus1e, Teresa, Elv1a, Shan­reason for be1ng me, and a great reason non, Steph, Allison, and all my other great to be off-campus conllnuously I love you fnends, Thanks for a fantastic brrthday! deeply. I hke you Intensely. and I look for· You guys are pnceless--1 really ap­ward to an only dreamt-of future My best preciate all you dtd to make sure I had a fnend and Corby s and Alben s panner. fun day I love you all more than chocolate stay you Itself!I Love. KATH Robb1 I n•d riders to ST. LOUIS. Want to go To the boys --Moose, Half-1nch. Buffalo home? Viall friends? Etc.? Leaving B1ll. and Georg1a Peach--If you could be Thursday afternoon, September 30. rerncarnated as an anrmal what would rt Call Bob at 8641. be? AttentiOn Boston Club Bnel meellng 1 Teddy bear a Mary Wed Sept 29 al 7:30 pm 1n Lafortune 2 Seagull b Sandi Basement 3 Laughrng Hyena c L1nda 4 Monkey d Megan leshe just how many phonecalls does 1t Answers w1ll appear next week take How do get that great degree of en­Smcerely yours, thusiasm for that ··spec1al guy IS there a The girlS secret to all th1s? Clue us'" Love the one who works for a hv1ng All the 1nhab1tants of room 722 P E beware for Charlie McCarthy hves on obviously written by an engineer NEED RIDERS TO EASTERN PENN· GO ERIN···BEAT ORGOI!!!I!I!!!!!!!I!!!! SYLVANIA VIA ROUTE 80 NEAR THE N.J. BBORDER. LEAVING THIS WED­NESDAY SO ACT NOW. CALL MIKE AT Silence shrouds the hall as Farley's 277-4300. gridiron greats contemplate the Impending demise of their arch rival PW FOOTBALL!' PW FOOTBALL!! Br•n Phillips. The classic Cartier con­frontation Is set for Wed night. The on· HEYHAVEYOUEVERSEEN ly question that "'mains: Will BP show CHRIS TORRES YOU KNOW WHO up? (The spirit of Mara enduresIll) MEAN ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••v•••••••••••••••••:•••••••••••••• SHES BAD. SHE HEAVY. SHE AIN T KAREN MCGHEE, THAT WAS A MEAN NO TEEN ACT BUT I ENJOYED EVERY MINUTE SHE JUST LITTLE MISS MAUREEN OF IT LOVE. ROOMIE Stay tuned 1or the adventures at an EC HAPPY BIRTHDAY JOHN NOBREGA Prude as he heads West tn search of htS Yet another Tanmaster comes of age and Kttten! the ntuals of the Tanmasters wtll be forthcomrng w1lh plenty of Panama Jack MIKE JASPER. om hand So get ready to sun your buns m Now that you re 20, why don 1 you learn your B1nhday sUit how to shave? Wog. The Tanmasters. Bob Lobster.and 3B Bubbles Dear Sohn. Rases are red Lad1es of Columbus meet1ng Tues n1ght alligators are green at 7·30pm al the K of C New members Happy ~Oth B1nhday. bro we\come lth1nk you re keen Love. Soan (Verbose. huh?) Bark. Bark Now you two can tlockmeout Just remember. when the ch1ps are down. anymore!! ya gotta watch where you step JAWS'! Wed & Thur: 7.9:15.1 1 :30: Eng Gail D's famous toast Aud JAWS!! Here s to the men that we love And heres to the men that love us But the men that we love Cavanaugh Men. aren t the men that love us Every hall needs httle Sisters and we want so to hell w1th the men to be yours Inundate Pres J1m w1th votes Heres to us lor Sue. Barb. and Beth P S 331 we expect your help personally, I thmk that's rather gauche Sue & Pans. Leanne. baby ­Remember You re not gett1ng older. How are you darhng? I just loved your you re gettmg better~ manuscrtpl -send us a f1nal copy nght away -tl s destmed to be a real smash best setlerl The advance IS tn the matl ---Ray Mak1e1us-Take care. smile. and Keep pumprn that ~ron' See ya at the don t spend 11 all1n one place' Larry Flynt game Oct 9' love & fnends. Hustlermagazme your SMC buddy kill the wabb11 Kill the Wabbit HEY REGINA FRESHMEN'" VOTE FOR KILL THE WABBITMARY BETH LAVEZZORIO AND LINDA CASCIO. PRESIDENT AND VICE Pauls Joke of the Week PRESIDENT WE WONT FORGET Q What s the only one n1ght act at theYOU-DON T YOU FORGET US!' ANY ctrcus?SUGGESTIONS PLEASE CALL US A A 21 Inch Baby Swallow1ng a Three284·4200. 284-41 36!' Foot Sword John­oooooooo. tCk y poo CongratulatiOns on GETTING THE CLUE Why are you lookin · at me. boy. you like Beth & Kathl me?  

The Observer 

PU-women shut out Irish in tennis action 
By DAVE STANG juries that are plaguing the team as 
Sports Writer one possible explanation for her 
team's poor performance. Petro 
A tough, experienced Purdue ten­expressed concern for Panther's 
nis team shut out Notre Dame's dis­back, Camille Cooper's tender el­
taff contingent, 7-0, in the drizzle bow, which kept her out of the 
Saturday morning at the Courtney match, and for Mary Colligan's nag­
Tennis Courts. The coaches of both ging cold. ''I'm not using these in­
teams decided to shorten the match juries as an excuse, but I'd be more 
due to the weather, which forced confident about winning ifeveryone 
the final sets indoors. The loss brings was healthy," she explained. 
the Irish women's season record to Coming up next for the women is 
5-2. the Milliken Tournament in 
'In singles action, No. I Susie Pan­Decatur, Ill. this weekend. This is a 
ther had to default for the second singles and doubles tournament 
time this year due to a hack ailment, where the team will try to regroup 
this time to Purdue's Molly ;\1cGrath before the rematch with DePaul 
after two sets. It was obvious that next Tuesday in Chicago. 
her hack affected her performance 
on the court. :'liotre Dame's No. 2, 
Laura Lee lost a close match to Aura 
Jain ~-5. -1-6, -t-6 Freshman Mary 
Colligan was defeated by Debbie 
\lackey of Purdue 6-5. +6, -l-6 at No. 
5. After an excellent start. ND's Lisa l.aFraua fdl to D<'hbit: Prohascka at fourth singles. 6-0. 0-6. I-(>. Purdue's Barbie Barnes was too much for No. 5 Cathy Schnell, taking a 6-2,6-2 Yer­dict. No. 6 Lisa <.11e.tson didn't fare any beIter in her I -6. 0-6 loss to Barb Burzinski. 
There was only one doubles match pia-red Sawrday due to the weather. At :'lio. .3. the team ofCathy Schnell and Greta Roemer fell to Purdue's Burzinski and Barnes 0-6. 5--:' in a rain-interrupted match. 
Coach Sharon Petro was "very dis­appointed" with the outc<~me of the match. She cited the numerous in-

• • .Baseball 
COIIIiiiUI'd.fi·ull/fHI~e ll 
base. 
Valparaiso started the game with a run in the first inning on two bloop singles and a couple of groundouts oft' pitcher .\lark Clementz. 
The Crusaders threated again in the second as they had runners on first and third. but a misplayed squeeze play ended wuh a runner being tagged out at home. 
In the boltom of t!1e second. \'ouna led otlwith a triple offpitcher Jim Robinson. who went all nine in­nings. Robinson then gave up walks to three of the next tiJur batters (his only walks ofthe day). Casey Snyder then singled to center. scoring an­other run. ,\loran followed by knocking in a third run on an error by the second baseman. making it 5­
I. 
\'alparaiso picked up a run in the third off a hit batsman and a doubh: b\· Joe (.ersna. The Crusaders tied the score in the fourth on two smgks otf pitcher Brad Cross and an nror by Jack .\loran. 
\ ouna started the eight inning for the Irish" ith a double to right tkld. Following a groundout. Passinault got an intield hit, which moved \'ouna to third. Schomer then came through with his sacrifice tly. 
Sophomore Joe Dobosh got the \icton· for the Irish. He pitched the last three innings and allowed only one hit. 
\'ouna collected three hits t<>r :'liotre Dame. Six other Irishman con­tributed a hit each for the Irish. 
Tuesday, September 28, 1982-page 10
The Observer 

Tommyjohn (right), shown here with California pitcbing coach Tom Morgan, was the winning hurler last night as the Angels topped Kansas City, 3-2, thus reducing the Halos' magic numberin the American League West to two. ( AP Photo) 

Baseballroundup 




Cardinals clinch division 
MONTREAL ( AP) -The St. Louis fourth homer, giving the Cardinals a 
Cardinals clinched the National 4-0 lead. League's Eastern Division title last night with a 4-2 victory over the Montreal Expos, last year's East win­Cubs 8, Phillies 1 
ners. Willie McGee's three-run, inside­PHILADELPHIA -Hill Buckner's 
the-park homer highlighted a 
run-scoring triple highlighted a four­four-run tirst inning. Dave LaPoint, run third inning as the Chicago Cubs 
9-3, was the winning pitcher. 
eliminated the Phillies from playoffThe victory -which enabled 
contention with an H-1 win. Manager Whitey Herzog's club to 
Randy Martz, I 1-10. checked the become the tirst team to nail down a 
Phillies on seven hits, struck out twodivision flag this year -gave the and walked one before beingCards their first title since the ad­relieved by Dick Tidrow in the vent ofdivisional play in 1969. 
ninth. Marty Bystrom, S-6, was theEntering last night, the Cards' 
loser.

magic number for winning the title The Cubs took a 1-0 lead in thewas two. St. Louis clinched a tie for second when Leon Durham singled,the East pennant when second-place 
stole second and moved to third
Philadelphia lost to Chicago, 8-1, when catcher Ozzie Virgil's throwearlier in the night. 
sailed into center field, and scored With two out in the first inning, ­
on Keith Moreland's infield out. 
Dane torg gave the Cardinals a 1-0 lead by singling home Ken Oberkfell, who had doubled off Angels,3, Royals 2 
Montreal starter Bill Gullickson, 12­
13. KANSAS CITY, Mo. -Tommy After Darrell Porter walked, John, backed by another game­
McGee blooped a fly ball to center. winning hit from Don Baylor, con­Andre Dawson attempted a shoe­
tinued his mastery over Kansas City string catch but the ball bounced un­as the California Angels defeated the der his glove and rolled to the wall. fading Royals 3-2 and narrowed McGee circled the bases, just their magic number in the American 
beating the relay to the plate for his League West to two. 
The Angels, who s-wept a three­game series from Kansas City last week in California, can capture its second division title in four years by winning one of the next two games against the Royal,. 
The victory was California's eighth in its last I 0 games, while Kansas Citv has lost J0 ofits last 1I. 
Baylor ~napped a 2-2 tie ·\ll.;th a one-out single in the seventh that drove in Brian Downing from second. It was Baylor's 21st game­winning hit of the year, tops in the American l.eague. 
Downing opened the inning with 

a walk off Vida Blue, 13-12, and moved to second on Rod Carew's sacrifice bunt. Doug Dt:<:inces was intentionally walked hefore Baylor singled. 
John, 14-12, defeated the Royals for the fourth time this season and the 14th time in his career against four losses. 
• • • Board 
continuedfrom page 8 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
East 
w l Pet. GB 
M1lwaukee 92 63 594 
Boston 85 71 545 75 

Detro•t 78 76 506 13 5 Cleveland 76 78 494 15 5 New York. 76 80 487 165 Toronto 72 83 465 20 
West Cali forma 90 67 573 Kansas Guy 85 71 545 45 Chicago 83 74 529 7 Seattle 76 81 484 14 Oakland 66 90 423 235 Texas 63 94 401 27 M1nnesota 58 97 374 31 
Yesterday's Results New York 10. Boston 3 Cal1forma 3. Kansas C1ty 2 Seattle 8-t Chtcago 4·4 Texas 4. Oakland 1 
Today's~ 

Mtnnesota (Vtola 4·8 and Fenon 0-13) at Toronto (Clancy 14-14 and Gol14·10).t·n Milwaukee IMedtch 11·13)atBostonlludor 13-10). n Balltmore (McGregor 13·12) at DelrOtl (Petry 15-8). n New York !Howell 1·2) at Cleveland ISutdtHe 14-6). n Cahlornta (Wttt 9·6) at Kansas Cay IGura 18-11). n Seallle (Moore 7·12) at Ctn..c.go (ldu>p9 8). n Oakland 1Conroy 1·2) at Texas 1Mason 1-1). n 
APTop20 

The Top Twenty college football teams "' The As­sociated Press poll. w1th hrst-place votes '" paren­theses. th1s seasons rec01ds and roral potnfs Pmnts based on 20·19-t8-17 etc Noire Dame oponents are 
italicized 
t Washington 125) 3-0-0 1.114 2 Pittsburgh 119) 3-0-0 1.107 3 Penn State 17) 4-0-0 1.032 4 Flondal1) 3-0-0 973 5 Alabama 14) 3-0-0 968 6 Georgta 11) 3-0-0 864 7 S Methodist (1 ) 3-0-0 803 8 Nebraska 2·1-0 702 9 UCLAi1) 3-0-0 662 10 Arkansas 3-0-0 607 11 Notre Dame 2-0-0 600 12 North Carolina 2·1·0 529 13 Anzona Slate 4-0-0 521 t4 West V1rgtn1a 3-0-0 395 15 Texas 2·0-0 372 t6 Southern Cal 2·1·0 317 17 Miam1 2-1-0 289 18 Boston College 2-0-1 132 19 M1nnesota 3-0·0 80 20 Auburn 3-0·0 70 


I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 

THE MILLER BREWING COMPANY PRESENTS ... 
A mult1-image presentation of the marketing and advertising strategres that have catapulted Miller Brew~ng Company from seventh place in the beer rn-dustry to second place today This entertaining program rs free and open to the public 
o.~te Wednesday Sept. 29 Pr t~sented tJy TheN.D. Marketing Club Ti!lle 7:30 prn . 
' '· 9:!~ ll·:ill 
._.;cJtic,., Rrn. 122 Hayes-Healy Ctr. 
1I Engint>ering Aud. 
19~2 rAiller Bn?.wmg Company, rv'1ilwaukee. WISCOflSin I' ONLV-~$1-.00
I L ____ ---.------·--------­
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observerc=~ 



~~4[]1l~~===========================T=u=e=s=d=a=y=,S=e=p=te=m==b=e=;=~=8=,=19=8=2====p=a=g=e=l::l
Doonesbury 


Simon 
OK CAROL fXACTLY liCW D:lt~ fHI':l "SC.Ri!W-YOUR·f\00tii'1AT£" THING JWR!<.r 
IT '5 £A~Y. YOU CALl 
AGUY Ai'ID A~K I+IM lOGO WITH ML 

... \3llf IT'[;, Lli<f A f>LIND DATE. : 1 lt>N'I KNDW WrlD itE. I~ UNTIL HE. fliCKS 1'1£ Uf' 


Nobody's Prefect 


The Daily Crossword 
s;1982 Tribune Company Syndicate. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
Garry Trudeau 




Jeb Cashin 
GEE CP\ROL, I D:NT Kl'()wWr\0 TO CAll. 


L\KE. A Bi..IN.P Df\TE,HUH? 
NO ffiOt3LC:M . 
tttRE. I~ ltiS 
NAME. AND 
NlJMBE.R. 


K.C. Ryan 



ACROSS 32 Aversions 62 Ant, old 22 Traveler's Fraudulent 36 DOE and style stopoverscheme Turner 63 Dies-25 Painter 5 Bugle song 37 Gold: Sp. 64 Church Andrew 
9 Knife 38 Red algae section 27 Employ 13 Docile 41 Lawyer: 65 Surgeon 28 Knife 14 List of abbr. or path 29 Virile 
candidates 42 Sulk 66 Fine spray males 16 Again 44 Monstrous 67 Electrical 31 Concordes 17 "Baked creatures unit 32 Drug 
in-" 46 Dinner 68 "Watch 33 Golf bag 18 More adept dish your-" items 19 Embossed 49 Type of 69 Sword 34 Compass 
emblem policy point 20 Dog 50 Protective DOWN 35 London 23 Genuflect device 1 Pile district 24 Small fish 52 Seed 2 Rooster 39 Use needle 26 Melted snow coating prepared and thread 30 Takes 56 Dog lor cooking 40 Strike 
pleasure in 60 Apex 3 Hooded 43 Gewgaw cape 45 Former 
4 Most timid 47 Brain test 5 Despot letters 6 Priestly 48 Burstyn, 
vestments the actress 7 Insect 51 Coins 
appendage 53 Denude 8 Vapor 54 Annoy 9 Dog 55 Sharp ridge 
10 "I took­57 Plant you..." fungus 11 Meadow, 58 Roll call 
to poets word 12 Night bird 59 Traffic 15 Kovacs or sign 
Pyle 60 Touch 21 Fitzgerald clumsily and Raines 61 Govt. agcy. 



Campus 
•4 
p.m. -Resume Workshop, Student Affairs Conference Room, LeMans Hall 

•4:30 
p.m. -Theology Major Meeting, 103 O'Shaugnessy, Sponsored by Theology Depart­ment 

•4:30 
p.m. -Biology Lecture, "Genetic Toxicol­ogy: An Overview", Dr. Virginia Sawin, 278 Galvin Life Sciences 

•7 
p.m. -Relationship and Sexuality Con­ference, "Broadening the Definition of Sexuality" Rev. Frederick Pfotenhauer, Carroll Hall 

•7 
p.m. -Lecture, "Nicaragua", Linda Rivera, Stapleton Lounge ( LeMans Hall, Saint Mary's), Sponsored by World Hunger Coalition 

•7, 
and 9:15p.m. -Film, "A Man For All Seasons", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Thomas More Society of Notre Dame 

•7:30" 
p.m. -Lecture, "Petrarca e il Petrar­chismo", Prof Ottavi Di Fidio, University College Galway, Ireland, O'Shaugnessy Faculty Lounge 

•7:30 
p.m. -lnfonnation Meeting, With Dean Burns for Arts and Letters sophomores interested in London Program, Library Auditorium 

•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "On the Future of Notre Dame," Father David Tyson, Zahm Hall Basement, Sponsored by Zahm Academic Commission 

•8, 
and 10 p.m. -Film, "Mr. Smith Goes to Wash­ington", Chautauqua Coffee House, Sponsored by 


N.D. Student Union, $1.00 
• 10 p.m. -Call-in Talk Show, Speaking of Sports, Dave Dziedic, WSND-AM 64, Sponsored by WSND-AM64 
T.V. Tonight 
6p.m. 
6:30p.m. 
7p.m. 
7:30p.m. 8P.M. 
8:30p.m. 9p.m. 
10p.m. 
!0:30p.m. 
llp.m. 
11:30 
16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 
34 The MacNeil/Lehrer Report 
16 M*A0S0 H0 
22 Family Feud 
28 Tic Tac Dough 
34 Straight Talk 
16 Father Murphy 
22 Bring Em Back Alive 
28 Happy Days 
34 National Geographic 
28 Laverne and Shirley 
16 Movie: "Seems Like Old Times" 
22  CBS  Tuesday  Night  Movie:  "The  
Shadow Rider"  
28  Three's Company  
34  Mystery  
28  9 to 5  
28  Hart to Hart  
34  Sandhills Album  
16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
34  Dick Cavett Show  
16  Tonight Show  

22 Quincy and McMillan & Wife 
28 ABC News Nightline 
34 Captioned ABC News 
28 Fantasy Island 
16 Late Night with David Letterman 


nFARM WORKERS'STRUGGLE IN THE MIDWEST" 
by 
===Baldemare Velasquez,=== national president of the Farm Laborer's Wed. Sept. 29 Organization Committee. 


The Observer wants you! 
The Ohseruer is always looking for new people to work in layout, news, sports, etc. No experience necessary. Call 259-5505 for more info. Come join the staft111 
' 
• 

J 
Tuesday, September 28, 1982 -page 12 




! SQorts 

Irishjuniortailback Greg Bell(28), shown here second quarter of last Saturday's 28-14 Notre running against Michigan, will miss four to six Dame win fJllerPurdue. (Photo h}' RachelBlount) weeks of action. He fractured his fibula in the 
NDtightend 
Hunter rebounds after nightmare 
By LOUIE SOMOGYI 
Sports Writer 
For many people, if Gerry Faust was the target to blame on the sideline for the disappointment of 1981, then junior Tony Hunter was a logical scapegoat to blame on the field ofplay. 
When Faust arrived last year with his ne~ unveiled wingback attack, Hunter was asked to forsake his split­end slot of the past two seasons for the honorary wingback position. It was a position that the best athlete on the team had to play since it demanded combined talents of run­ning, receiving and blocking. 
Indeed, Hunter was the perfect choice. His first two seasons at Notre Dame were merely the appetizers for the fans who had watched this talented athlete perform on the gridiron. 
Through his first two years he was on the receiving end of 50 passes for 993 yards. His speed (he had run a 
21.7 sec. 220-yard dash in high school) and fluid movements allowed him to average an amazing 
25.6 yards on 27 receptions his freshman year alone. Meanwhile, his statuesque 6-5, 21 5-pound frame was gaining notoriety for the level­ing hits he put on opposing defen­ders that dared to near his running-back teammates. 
Along the way, his versatile talents also led him to run end-around reverses for first downs and, yes, even throw a beautiful 31-yard pass to set up the tina! Notre Dame touchdown in the 1980 Michigan thriller. 
His talents would finally be utilized to perfection in 19H 1 as the coaches mentioned that most of the
• offensive scheme would revolve around the wingback. The mere thought of Hunter han­dling the ball 15-20 times a game, as the coaches said he would, created the forecasts for an awesome unit on offense. No one was more excited with the new system than Hunter himself. In the end, no one was more dis­appointed either. "Without a doubt that experience was the toughest point of my life," recalls Hunter. "Being at Notre Dame you have to learn to live with pressure; I just didn't come through when I had to. The pressure got to me and I became increasingly frustrated with what I was doing." 
His five game stint at the 
wingback posttton included a 2.5 rushing average on 27 carries. Meanwhile, his pass receiving became a major mystery as he began dropping well-thrown passes with alarming frequency (mishandling three in the Michigan game alone). 
The ones he did catch were few, and nothing close to resembling his close to 20-yard reception average that he ammased his previous two years. In his final three games at the wingback slot he caught four passes for only 1 1 yards. 
Even the pass he threw against Michigan was now intercepted. 
Mercifully, Hunter was moved to split end the next game. One game later he was moved to the tight-end spot which he currently holds. By that time, though, the Irish were 2-4, and the damage had been done to 
Hunter's spirit. Joyous days have returned for Hunter, though. Already he has latched onto 11 passes for 1 52 yards. His hands, more significantly, have no longer been butterfingers, but pure bread-and-butter in the clutch. Against Michigan, the last of his seven receptions on a fourth down play set up the eventual winning score. But his value in the clutch was even more evident in the Purdue game. On Notre Dame's first scoring drive, Hunter latches onto a Blair Kiel pass over the middle for 14 yards on third-and seven deep in Notre Dame territory to keep the drive alive. Hunter's third catch of the day 1 was a 25-yard reception on a third­and-eight situation. No score resulted from this series, hut it took the Irish out of poor tield position and set them up for better field posi­tion later. The fourth and final reception by Hunter on the afternoon was a 19­yard grab on a third-and-1 H situa­tion. A tremendous forward lunge with defenders hanging on to him got the first down. Seconds later, Phil Carter scored on a I 0-yard run to ice the Irish victory. After each of the receptions, the revived ebullience in Hunter showed as he led the cheerleading for his teammates on the tield, and coaxed for extra exuberence from the stands. ''I'm having fun out there," said a beaming Hunter after the contest. "I just love the blocking and the hit­ting; and the new offensive scheme that Coach Hudson has helped put in 
has just been super. 
"lfl feel like jumping up and down and leading cheers on that field, I will -no matter what others think. I'm having fun playing football for the first time in quite awhile." 

Irish baseball team wins one, drops pair 
Just like the Tony Hunter and 
was thrown out as he rounded first 
Notre Dame ofold. 
base too far, ending the rally. 
By NEAL SMITH 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame won one out of three 
home games this weekend on Jake 
Kline Field, dropping its season 
record to 1-4. The Irish defeated Val­
paraiso University Saturday, 4-3, 
before dropping a pair to St. Francis 
College, 4-2 and 4-1, on Sunday. 
St. Francis, visiting from Joliet, Ill., scored early in the first game of the doubleheader. The first three bat­ters each singled, resulting in two runs. "They got one run, and we gave them one," said Coach Larry Gallo. On the second hit, the base runner went to third and the batter advanced to second on the throw to third. This enabled two run·s to score instead of one on the following single. 
· Notre Dame began its scoring in the third inning on three straight singles to center by Mike Doming, Jack Moran and Steve Passinault. However, Moran and Passinault were left in scoring position at the end of the inning. 
With two outs and no one on in 
the top ofthe fifth, St. Francis scored 
a run on back-to-back doubles by 
Kurt Miller and Jim Kelly, making 
the score 3-l. 
In the bottom half of the inning, Passinault walked and went to third on an errant pick-off attempt by the pitcher. Rick Chryst then singled to left, scoring Passinault. Phil Dingle followed with a single to right but 
St. Francis began the seventh with a double by Miller. Two outs later, he scored on an off-the-handle bloop single by Tom Baungarter, putting St. Francis up 4-2. 
Notre Dame had a potential rally going in the bottom of the seventh, but pinch-runner Phil Gilmore was picked off first base. The following two Irish hitters walked, but the game ended after Notre Dame could muster only one run on a sacrifice fly. 
"When you play the type of base­running we play, we beat ourselves," commented Coach Gallo. 
Steve Whitmyer was the losing pitcher. He pitched the entire game for the Irish. "I have no qualms about our pitching," remarked Coach Gal­lo. 
In the second game, which was shortened to five innings due to darkness, St. Francis scored three runs in the third inning. 
St. Francis added another run in the fifth on back-to-back doubles by Baumgarter and John Querio off Buster Lopes. 
Miller was St. Francis's biggest 
contributor of the day, going five-of­
seven at the plate. Centerfielder 
Scott Markley, who threw out run­
ners at third and the plate, was also a 
factor. 
In the 4-3 victory over the Val­
paraiso Crusaders Saturday, 
shortstopJason Schomer broke a 3-3 
tie in the eighth with a sacrifice fly to 
right field, scoring Vouna from third 
See BASEBALL, page 9 

TVrights suit raises old questions 
It has been difficult, to say the least, to decipher the confusing signals coming out of courtrooms in Ok­lahoma. First, a judge said that colleges could televise football games however they wanted. Oklahoma promptly sold the rights to last weekend's game with USC. Then, more judges said that colleges couldn't sell TV rights to their games. 
What's going on here? Is Notre Dame on the verge of 
a multi-million-dollar bonanza? How did all of this get 
started? 

In a nutshell, it started in the 1950's. Notre Dame was 
on TV every week, and the other colleges got jefl.lous. 
So, they voted to control TV rights through the NCAA. 
Nothing was said about basketball or other sports. Just 
football. 

Since then, the arguments on each side have changed very little. The big schools want control of their own games. The little schools, who stand to lose revenue on the deal, and who outnumber the football powers, keep voting to maintain control. 
How little ha~ the issue changed? Judge for yourself. The following are excerpts from speeches given before the National Association of Radio and Television Broad­casters convention in May, 1954. 
Walter Byers,Executir'e Secretary ofthe NCAA: 
"The important thing you have to come face to face 
with is that television hurts attendance ... The NCAA is 
an organization through which the universities and col­
leges speak on athletic matters at the national level ... 
The colleges have handed together for self-protection 
on this subject. "The University of Notre Dame has 
consistently voted against controlled telecasting in our 
organization and has presented forceful arguments for 
its position . . I assume the reason the University of 
Notre Dame takes that position is that they have seen no 
evidence of television's impact upon attendance at the 
University of Notre Dame, and quite rightly so, I think, 
and therefore they see no reason to control telecasting. They have no experience and hurt. 
"When the day comes that there is no damage to at· 
tendance or that there arc offsetting factors for such 
damage, the colleges will no longer control television." 
"We all sincerely hope ... that television will make new sports fans. However, to date we have not f()Und any appreciable evidence that television docs make new sports tans... 
Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, Executi1•e Vice President, Uniuersi~}' ofNotre Dame: 
"We believe that the NCAA is highly presumptious in thinking that it can control the comings and goings. 

in and out of football stadiums. Banning television or 
restricting it will not insure that Starhigh College, for 
instance, will have the same attendance in 1960 that it 
had in 1947. There are too many other variable factors 
exclusive of television, that affect attendance. 
"It is ourcontention that television can and should he 
used as a great ally of intercollegiate football. True, we 
speak as a decided minority in the college ranks, but we 
are optimistic enough to feel that time will substantiate 
our position. 
''We found ourselves in the same minority position when radio came into prominence. The athletic direc­tor ofone our prominent Pacific Coast universities said that he was convinced that broadcasting "is hurting and will continue to hurt attendance." Knute Rockne had taken the opposite viewpoint. He had enough foresight to realize that radio could help dramatize college t(>ot­ball and bring countless new fans into the stadium. Sub­sequent experience-proved him right. 
"Now, another feature ofthe NCAA plan that disturbs 
us is that controls by their nature tend to become more 
and more restrictive. Permit the camel to warm his nose 
in your tent and it will not be long before he will take 
the whole tent ami you'll be sleeping outside. 
"However, the most ominous development of all. it 
seems to us, is the recurrent suggestion that a "share the 
wealth" plan might well be adopted whcrebv the 
proceeds from television would be divided betw~en all 
the colleges, whether their teams were on television or 
not. Besides being an insult to the integrity ofa college. 
such a suggestion is, to our mind, socialistic and dan­
gerous. 
"It is so easy for an opponent to sit back and sav. 'Yes. Notre Dame is opposed to the NCAA program b~cause they would stand to gain tinaciallv from a more liberal program. They have little concern.for the adverse effect on other colleges as long a.~ they enrich themselves.' However, mom~y has never governed the policies of 
our athletic program." 
I don't think anv comment on these is necessarv. While they may m;t speak well for the men involved, the comments are certainly representative of the relative intelligence of both sides. 




