
' ' , Top Ten -page 7 
VOL XVI, NO. 1 •1 tht· imkpemknt stlllknt tww..,papcr ..,t'n inJ.: notre Jamt· and saint mary's FRIDAY, MAY 14, 1982 

Succeeds Stephan 
Carney named Board chairman 
ByJOHNCOEN and distinction of his past service and control. During his vice­were the best recommendation for presidential tenure, the company's
News Staff 
research budget more than tripled.
his current appointment." Carney moved to G.D. Searle and

Thomas P. Carney, Ph.D., chair­In an interview yesterday, Carney man and president of Metatech Cor­said there are three major goals for 
Company in 1964 and reached the poration and an alumnus of Notre the Board. First, he hopes to main­position ofexecutive vice-president Dame, was elected Chairman of the tain the "Catholicity" of the Univer­of that corporation in 1972. Searle's 
sales increased almost sevenfold

Board of Trustees of the University sity. Carney said there are few during the meeting of the Board last universities founded in Catholicism during Carney's service. In 1975, and he wants to maintain this. Carney moved to the National
Friday. lie has been a member the Carney also desires to continue Patent Development Corporation,
Board since its inception in 1967. 
the "momentum toward excel­serving a.-; chairman ofthe executive

Carney becomes the Board's lence" to make Notre Dame not just committee.
second chairman, succeeding Ed­a good Catholic school but an excel­Carney is author of three books
mund A. Stephan, an alumnus and lent university on a international about industrial productivity, and
Chairman of the Board since the 
scale. the most recent two were publishedreorganization of the governance of Finally, Carney will encourage the by the Notre Dame Press. 

the University fourteen years ago. Stephan has reached the mandatory activity ofthe Order ofHoly Cross at Carney is a member of numerous the University. He noted the number international associations ofscience
Board retirement age of seventy and has been named "Chairman of young qualified priests whose in­and has served as a consultant to the Emeritus" of the forty-five member terest in the University needs to be United States Department of State, and Department Health,
organization. maintained. the of Carney, 67, said it was a Education, and Welfare. "tremendous honor to be named Some of the honors Carney has Chairman ofthe Board ofTrustees of received from Notre Dame include 
the University ofNotre Dame, and to president of the National Alumni As· be selected leader ofan organization sociation, membership in the Ad­ofsuch outstanding people." visory Council for Science and 
A resident of Lake Forest, Illinois, Engineering, centennial awards Carney received his bachelor's de­from the Colleges of Science and gree in chemical engineering from Engineering, an honorary doctorate Notre Dame in 1937. His master's (L.L.D.) in 1969, Nieuwland Lec­and doctorate degrees in organic turer, and the Alumni Association's chemistry were conferred by the highest recognition, the Sorin Pennsylvania State University in Award. He has also served as chair­1939 and 1941. Carney completed man ofthe student affairs and faculty post-doctoral study in medicinal committees of the Board of Trus­chemistry at the University of Wis­tees. 
..
consin. Carney has had four children
Thomas P. Carney 

Carney spent 35 years in industry graduate from Notre Dame, two Carney wa.-; chosen after being accumulating experience in such sons in 1967 and 1975, and two Atyesterday's senior ptcntc,frlends enjoyed not only eacf,J other's recommended to the Board by a varied fields as research, develop­daughters in 1974 and 1977. company, but also a lot ofsunshine. (photo by Cheryl Ertelt) nominating committee chaired by ment, planning, operations, and ad­Father Theodore Hesburgh, univer­ministration before founding sity president. Metatech Corporation in 1976 -a 
For Senior Fellow 

"Tom Carney has seen the univer­company which develops high­sity from almost every perspective," technology products. Stephan said. "He ha.~ served a.~ an He started his career at Eli Lilly 

Seniors elect art professor Leader 
alumni leader, as a trustee, develop­Company in Indianapolis working ment program volunteer, parent, there from 1944 to 1964 in a variety 
By MICHELE DIETZ and Letters; Ronald Weber, profes­cerned with what happens to these and visiting academic lecturer, to of positions, and he became vice Senior StaffReporter sor of American Studies; John Roos, students. I wouldn't have been here name only a few roles. The breadth president of research, development, professor of government; Sr. John all these years if I weren't." 
Robert Leader, senior professor of Miriam Jones, Asst. Provost; Head Making a generalization about this art and popular lecturer of the Football Coach Gerry Faust; Fr. year's class compared with classes of course "Art History: The Tradition George Wiskirchen, author on several years ago, Leader said, "They of Art" better known to students a..~ music appreciation; Emil T. Hofman, are more receptive compared to stu·

Cotntnencetnent! 
"Art Trads," was honored as Senior dean ofthe freshman year ofstudies; dents eight or ten years ago. They'reFellow for the Notre Dame Senior 
ND 

Bro. John Lauelle,. a Right-to-Ufe more goal-oriented and enthusiastic Class of 1982 Monday May 10 at a club activist; and Edward Kaznuer­and there Is less horsing around." reception at Alumni-Senior Bar. 
zak, supervisor of the Rockne Leader was also nominated for Educated at the Boston Museum 
Memorial. Senior Class Fellow In 1981. He 

By KELLI FLINT By MARGARET FOSMOE of Fine Art at Yale University and at "I don't take it as just a personal received the Madden Award for dis­Saint Mary's Executive Editor the University of Illinois, Leader distinction," Professor Leader said. tinguished teaching in 1966. He has 
E'xecuttiJf! News Editor 

became an instructor at Notre Dame "Rather, being a member of a small also served on various committees, in 1953. He started teaching "Art department of the University, it's a including the Academic Council, the
Two women valedictorians and Today's senior nurses capping Trads" in 1955, and the course is recognition long due to a 'low
Canadian Prime Minister Pierre ceremony, tours ofthe new Cushwa­Faculty Senate, and the College presently one of the most popular priority' department." Council.
Trudeau will address some 2,200 de­Leighton Ubrary, and Baccalaureate gree recipients at Notre Dame's Mass mark the opening activities of and durable electives at ND, now I'm not concerned about Widely recognized as a liturgical Saint Mary's I35th commencement enrolling 300 to 600 second genera­popularity," he continued, "l am artist and designer of stained glass,
I37th Commencement Ext:rcises 

exercises. tion students a year. concerned with respect. I'm con-Leader is the author of the stained
Sunday in the arena of the Athletic 52 senior nurses will participate "His lectures are very appealing," glass in Alumni and Keenan-Stanford
and Convocation Center. A total of 1,739 undergraduates in the capping ceremony, which is 1981-82 Senior Class President Tom Halls and the mural in the lobby of 
will receive the baccalaureate de­scheduled for I p.m. in the Church 
the penthouse of Memorial Library.
Lupo said. "He's popular, relaxed, humorous, respected and amiable.

gree, 69 will receive Masters of Busi­of Loretto. Each nurse will receive a With major works in over 50 public 
ness Administration degrees, 157 nursing school pin which expresses Most important is his concern and buildings, he wa..-; recently honored Juris Doctori (law), and 241 the ideals of nursing and signifies enthusiasm." with a Papal medal by the Apostolic graduate school degrees. service to humanity. Vince Laughlin, Senior Fellow Delegate of Jerusalem for his art 
Jacqueline Bolla..~ and Ann Weber Tours of the newly-completed Chairman, added, "I'm very happy work in the rebuilding of the Holy each maintained perfect 4.0 library will take place at I and 2 p.m. with the decision. His classes were See, the chapel in the Pontifical In­averages over four years. Each of the today. This will mark the first public always interesting. He's a great guy." stitute inJerusalem. 
The decision was made on Wed­

women will cover one aspect of the viewing of the interior. A U.S. Marine during World War 
nesday, April 28. According to Lupo,

traditional valedictory address at The Procession for the Bac­II, Professor Leader was a member of 
60 percent of the seniors voted. 

commencement. calaureate will be at 3:45p.m. today, the patrol that participated in the 
Lupo explained the election of

Both participated in a variety of followed by the Mass in Angela Ath­now-famous flag raising on Iwo)ima.
Senior Fellow as a choice to "honor

extra-curricular activities while at letic Facility. An advocate of the civilian educa­
someone who affects academic and

Notre Dame. In addition to these activities, the tion offuture military officers, he has 
social life." This year the honor was

Bolla.-;, a psychology major, par­ND/SMC Dance Department will been a supporter of campus ROTC limited to those within the Univer­
ticipated in Lyons Hall interhall ath· present the final performance of programs. letics, wa.~ a research assistant in the their Spring Dance Concert at 8 p.m. sity. Born in Cambridge, Mass., in Psychology Department and served tonight in O'Laughlin Auditorium. Leader was selected among 1924, Leader is married to Dr. as a volunteer in the Neighborhood Afterwards, a reception for graduat-eleven nominees: Dean Robert Wad­Dorothy Leader, Dean of Health 
dick and Asst. Dean Kathleen 

Robert Leader Sciences at Lake Michigan College, See NOTRE DAME, page S See SAINT MARY'S, page S Weigert, both of the College of Arts and has three sons and a daughter. 




r---r----------
NewsBrieb 
By The Obsen•er and The Associated Pres!> 
For the second time in its 10-year-history, the Uni­versity ofNotre Dame's alumni publication, Notre Dame Magazine, has been judged the t<>p publication of its kind in the nation. The 1982 Robert Sibley Award, sponsored by the Council for the Ad­vancement and Support of Education (CASE) and supported by Newsweek, will be awarded to the magazine, edited by Ron Parent, at the CASE assembly in Toronto in July. Notre Dame Magazine has never failed to be included in the top ten alumni publications and won the Sibley Award first in 1978. The magazine's ten other awards for graphics, writing, photography and its voluntary subscription program were instrumental in earning the University a citation for overall excellence in public relations; alumni affairs, and develop­ment. The citation was one of only four awards given for general excellence in competition open to mpre than 2,500 colleges and universities. Other awards for University departments include those to: the Alumni Association for its summer S<>Cial concerns projects for students; Information Services for the public relations surround­1 ing the 1981 Commencement at which President Reagan spoke and various groups protested; and Student A.ffairs and the Senior Class for 
community relations in eliminating the traditional seniors' neigh­borhood death march in favor a block party in the Athletic and Con­vocation'Center for students and nearby residents. -The Observer 
Michael J. Joyce of Pittsburgh, Pa has been elected president ofthe Notre Dame Alumni Association and will assume his new office July 1. The 1964 graduate succeeds Michael 0. Read, a New Orleans attorney. Joyce, a partner in the certified public accounting firm ofTouche Ross and Co., is a former president ofthe Notre Dame Club of Pittsburgh and has held several elective offices in the chapter. Completing his second year as a director of the na­. tional association, he was chairman ofthe Pittsburgh alumni phase of the Campaign for Notre Dame, a capital fund program that raised more than $180-million nation-wide. Other activities include a three-yearterm t as president and vice president ofthe parish council at our Lady of Grace Church, a director of Housing Opportunities, Inc., and the Bower Hill Baseball Association. He is married and the father oftwo children. -The Observer 
Some 174 representatiVeS of 140 University alumni clubs across the country, meeting on campus for an annual briefing on University affairs April 29-May 1, passed a resolution backing Notre Dame's president, Father Theodore M. Hesburgh, in his anti-nuclear arms initiative. Hesburgh has plans to bring an inter­nationally distinguished group ofscientists together with PopeJohn Paul II in Rome next September to condemn nuclear warfare. The scientists would subsequently meet with leaders of other major world religions in Vienna to affirm the same stand. -The Observer 
The nation's bimestranking Army officer, General Edward Meyer, a member ~he joint chiefs of staff, will speak at commissioning ceremonies for ROTC graduates at the University of Notre Dame this Saturday. Professor Timothy O'Meara, provost, will preside at the 10 am. traditional ceremony in the Athletic and Con­vocation Center. Scheduled to receive commissions are 36 Air Force cadets, 34 Navy, 32 Army and nine Marine Corps trainees. Included in the group are a Saint Mary's College student and a Indiana Univer­sity at South Bend student. A graduate from West Point, Meyer is a combat veteran of the Korean and Vietnam Wars, and served as deputy chiefofstaff for operations and plans in the European theatre. He served as a Federal Executive Fellow with the Brookings Institute where he was a specialist on the federal budget and US forces in Europe. -The Observer 
The annual Union..Management con­
ference ofNotre Dame will observe a 25th anniversary this year with discussions focusing on evaluating productivity programs and job security. Sessions in O'Laughlin Auditorium of Saint Mary's College 
on Friday, June 11 will be attended by several hundred industry and union leaders. Uoyd McBride, president of the United Steelworkers of America, will discuss prospects for the steel industry in futute years. Other participants will lead discussions on quality and productivity In Japan, urgent aspects of industrial relations, quality of work life programs and factors behind employment trends. The Union-Management conference is sponsored by Notre Dame's Department ofEconomics, in -cooperation with the Law School and Saint Mary's College. -The Observer 
.· \'; 
..·'·;·· ,· 
', -·~ ·, 

Father Theoaore ·Hesburgh, president _of 
Notre Dame, Is ranked se-cond In influence.Jn eduC1lti011 ana·third in 
religion in U.S. New and World Report's annual survey of national 
leadership. Hesburgh has been ranked among the top five decision­
makers in religion and education, two of the ten to fourteen fields 
covered by the magazine, since the survey began nine years ago. The 
publication annually asks prominent people in a given field to rank 
their peers. Ahead of Hesburgh in education is President of Havard 
Derek C. Bok, and in religion Bishop James Armstrong, president of 
the National Council of Churches, and Evangelist Billy Graham. ­
The Observer 

Dr. Thom~ P. Bergin, dean ofcontinuing educa­tion, has been appointed to an international conference committee planning the 1984 International Association ofFine Arts Deans. The meeting in Amsterdam, Holland will address the major issues facing arts education internationally. -The Observer 
N0 more snow! South Bend will enjoy a warm sun today, but there is a slight chance oflate afternoon thundershowers. Lows in 50s; highs in mid to high 80s. More ofthe same tomorrow. ­
The Observer 

Friday, May 14, 1982 -page 2 

After all, an end 
Five years of newspaper work have taught me to write concisely and to immediately get to the point. But how can you sit down and, in about 1000 words, say something meaningful about four years ofcollege life at Notre Dame? That's the objective of this column, my last for The Observer. 
Let's start by looking at college life itself. Ther~ were a lot of lineno stand in, a lot oflate-night booking, and too many term papers to write, but no matter how you cut it, these years have been the most care-free that most of us will ever see. To say that these are the best year oflife would be too sweeping a statement to make; for some this may well be true, but for most, the best years are yet to come. 
The class of 1982 has lived life to its fullest at Notre Dame; there have been many accomplishments and many failures, but more than anything else, many memories from which we will learn. Frankly, this is a rather lackluster class; we came here four years ago billed as the most intelligent freshman class in Notre Dame history -we leave Sunday known as perhaps one ofthe most quiet -even apathetic -class in years. In fact, when most people think of 1982 right now, they think ofNotre Dame's worst football season in 19 years. 
But that brings to mind something my future boss in 
Jobn McGrath Editor Emeritus 
Inside Friday 

for what it was rather than looking away. As a result, he he stands four years later as hopefully a wiser and more open-minded human being. 
In fact the single most important ideal this kid adopted at Notre Dame wa<> borne of this transition period: a new philosophy on life. The result is 19 words that will guide the rest of his life: Do the very best at what you are doing right now and thefuture will take care ofitself. The thought is simple, but profound and demanding in its implications: it cautions against being obsessed by future events or hazards; yet it demands nothing short of excellence in present endeavors by demanding the best effort in today's committments. If success is the result, then hard work on a day-to-day basis definitely played a large part in the outcome; if failure is in the cards, then there are no apologies to be 
Chicago told me recently. made -there was nothing Although not a Notre Dame else that could have been grad himself, this successful done beyond the best pos­businessman noted, "you sible effort. Notre Dame people have So far things seemed to 
this kind of inner grit tha,t have worked out for this kid. keeps you going: You don't He's graduating from Notre always win in looks, man­Dame, has a good job, and ners, or even football, but by has maintained his sanity. God, you always win in the This could be the story of end -and that's what sets any one of hundreds of the you apart." Despite its quiet domers who will officially time here, and its uneventful leave this University Sunday, departure from the Univer­but the story strikes close to sity, I just know this class is home because I'm that kid. going to make it. And I have Notre Dame to tf we haven't learned any­thank for teaching me how 

thing else during our Notre Dame years, I can tell you one thing about the Class of 1982; we learned a hell ofa lot about ourselves. There's one member ofthe class of 1982 that I know pretty well. Four years ago, while hundreds of his classmates were converging on South Bend from New Jersey, Chicago, and California, an 18­year-old redheaded kid left a northern Appalachian town in central Pennsylvania Uke everyone else, this kid was an acheiver, a Notre Dame rah-rah -and more than a little bit naive. But if you tried to tell him that four 
years ago, you were talking to a brick wall; you see, he knew it all, had an opinion on everything, and was fully convinced that a career in law was the thing for him. At that time, things were simple; something was either right or wrong, good or bad, black or white. Then came the rude awakening. 
little by little, month by month at Notre Dame, that 
view ofthe world crumbled. It was a frustrating demoli­
tion process on his beliefs. It's hard to accept when 
something you just know is right turns out to be some­
what less than that ideal; or even downright hollow or 
false. But he began to face reality and at length, accept it 

quest f:oR SecRet Ctty €nbs 
-------·--------......-...---~­


I w.v;T:WI! 
r.-......
....._ --.;.,........... 
.....,...................... 
,_.....,,.... 
-·...
,..~,..

--·""-·.... 
T""ii" ""jj""io.i­
"'-"'•..,,,...,l'VoCial 




sm=m::=c= 
Press Release 
to acheive and appreciate a 

thing called peace of mind. In one sense, there's still a lot ofthose Pennsylvania hills in me, but four years in South Bend have changed all of us so much that we really can never go back to the way we were. We are what we've become, and even if we can't look in the mirror today and notice any dif­ferences, let me assure you, they are there. And no mat­ter how uncertain the future may look right now, you know, I know, and a big part ofthe world knows that we, the class of 1982 at Notre Dame, will win in the end. 

Observer note 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views of the author, and do not necessarily represent the views ofThe Observeror its editorial board. 

Design Editor .................. Suzanne LaCroix Design Assistant... ...................... Tim Neely Layout Staff............................... went home Typesetters ............................. Bruce Oakley Tom Maclennan News Editor ................................... KeUI Flint CopyEditors........................ MicheUe Dietz Features Layout........................ Tari Brown Tim Neely Editorials Layout.................. Paul McGinn Tim Neely Sports Copy Editor .............. Mike Onman, Skip DC!sjardin, Pins Needless Typist........: ......................... Marget Fosmow Ad Design ......................John & The Torch Pbotograp""......................... Cheryl Enelt Supplement Layout................... Tim Neely Guest Appearances ................... The Target Mom & Dad from Maine Mother Rabbit SMC's Emeritus Griff& Darby Tony MacLennan 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacation penods The Observer 1s publ1shed by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys Col· lege Subscnptlons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wr.111ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer 1s a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
A lottery trom a poolot over 20,000 correct responses produced Marty Henninger ot Ouke University as the winner ot the General Foods International Cottees Quest ot the Secret City Sweepstakes. Entry to the sweepstakes required solving riddles 
hat ran in college newspapers tor tour consecutive weeks, with the answers spelling out the name and location otthe secret city -Chartres, France. Starting with the trip tor two to Chartres, Mr. Henninger's prize also includes' 30-day Eurail passes, American Youth Hostel passes, two back packs, and $1 , 000 in cash. 

------------------~---------------------------------------~ ---------------------------~-------------------~ 
The Observer Friday, May 14, 1982 -page 3 
Elevatorinjury 

Saint Mary's student files suit 
By MARGARET FOSMOE the stairs and came to get me." Devereux is seeking $1 5,000 from Saini Mary's Execullt•e Editor r Devereux fell nearly three flights the college. to the bottom of the elevator shaft The suit further claims that 
A Saint Mary's student injured in and was rescued by security, Devereux was subjected to pain, an elevator accident two years ago paramedics, and a fire department suffering, permanent injuries, loss of has t11ed suit against Saint Mary's and rescue team. ability, delays in pursuing her 
Otis Elevator Company seeking She was admitted into the con· everyday activities and earning damages of more than half a million stant care section of St. joseph's money because of the accident. dollars. Hospital. There were conflicting 
The student, Claire Devereux reports of her injuries at the time. Devereux refused to comment on from River Forest, Ill., was seriously The Observer reported she sustained the case. injured when she fell down the a fra<.·tured skull, clavical, jaw, and The case is being handled by elevator shaft in McCandless Hall on knee. According to another report, james Thomas Demos of the May9, 1980. she suffered a fractured skull, Chicago law firm, James Thomas 
On May 15, 1980, the Observer fractured collar bone and broken Demos and Associates, Ltd. Demos 
I SKY D/ i
r~ported that Devereux, then a 19· right elbow. was unavailable for comment, but an year-old freshman, her roommate The lawsuit charges the elevator associate, William Burke, said the Karin Fraboni, and another student, company wth negligence, failure to case contests that "the fault lies with 
I ~ I
Mary Laue, were riding the elevator maintain the elevator adequately one or two different entities to the fourth floor at 3: I 5 a.m. when and installing possible defective either Otis or Saint Mary's." ~ ~ it stopped between the third and equiptment. Devereux is demand· 
fourth floors. ing S500,000 in damages from Otis. Burke said that the case against At the time, Mary jane Silvia, then The suit also claims the college the college is unclear. "At this point, McCandlc:ss Hall director, said: was negligent in the maintenance of we don't know the school's obliga· 




i "' i
"Claire got nervous and tried to get the elevator and should have known tion. We asked for the minimum sum 
~ I 
out. She lowered herselfdown to the the elevator malfunctioned because allowable in a Federal Court ...We third floor but missed and fell. After of similar incidents in which it had don't know if Saint Mary's is respon­
I ~ 
she fell, Fraboni and Laue got the become stuck. The case charges that sible," he said. elevator to work and took it up to Saint Mary's failed to have the the fourth floor. Then they ran down elevator properly repaired. Acourt date has not been set. 

i SKYSTREAM I
Movin'out? \ 
I ~ 
~ STUDENT fiRST JUMP INSTRUCTION I
! TRAIIIIC FEES: $85.00 per student training includes ~ ~ ground school, first static line jump, equipment rental, ~~ ~ parachute packing, jump master, airlift. 


RENTA 
! GROUP RATES: Applicable only to individual groups. :ill ~ Group of 5-$80.00 Grouup of 10-$75.00 ~ ~ STATIC LINE JUMPS: $18.00/ jump -need a minimum ! ~ of 5 static line jumps. ,;:

RYDER TRUCK 
:ill STUD£111 FREE FALL: $15.00/ jump -up to 5,500 ft. ~ ~ Includes jump master, equipment rental & parachute ~ 
If you·re 18 or over you can rent a Ryder truck to use locally or on a one-way (rent-It-here. leave-It-there) tnp to another oty 
FOR INFORMATION ~ packing. ~ 
Compare costs before you make plans for mov1ng at the end ! STUDENT TRAINING CLASSES: ~ of the semester W1th a truck you can take along your stereo. 10-speed. CALL 277-3550 ~ Start 9:00A.M. Sat. & Sun. :ill clothes. all your stuff. and still have plenty of room for one or two other ~ Come down and watch, our staff will answer any ~ people and their tn1ngs. so you can share the costs Compare that to a 
! questions you might have. i 
plane ticket Qr even a bus. Rent from the best-malnt<uned, most dependable fleet 1n R the world Ryder The best truck money can rent ~a.., . 
i STine UNE JUMP -~~~~~~~~~~;irplone by the static ~! line which automatically deploys the chute. A minimum of 5 ore :ill ~ ·----------------------~ ~ required. ~ :ill CWI AID PULL: Student jumps and deploys chute immed1otely by ~~

110% OFF ~en~~lncea~~Yate 
~ pulling his ripcord. ~ FlEE FALL: Deloyiny the pull until 2,500 ft., thus falling for a time :ill ' . lwifhthisCOUPONandyourStudent ID maintaining stable flight. Jl!
..,J~ :ill~ IEUnYE WOII (IIW): A number of jumpers together using freefall ~~ ~ time to complete formations at altitude. ~ THE FAA (FEDUAL lVIlnOI ASSOC.) requires every jumper to wear
~~J' {f . , through June 30, 1981 
:ill two chutes-A main and a reserve. The reserve must be pocked by a ~ ,,. ' -r.-'1 ' Offer Good at 2715 R. Bendix Dr., S.B. ~ FAA certified rigger. ~ 
~ 

ji;P.. :.{r} YDERTRUCKRENTAL I Forfurtherinformationcall: I 1\~ 2715N.BENDIXDR South Bend I Goshen Municipal Airport 533-8245 !
...........
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,~ 


During Senior week brave parents are also found checking on their sons' and daughters'favorite haunt. (photo by Cheryl Ertelt) 
Student Body President 


Murday ends constructive year 
ByjACK RYAN many changes from a year ago, but Chautauqua, Murday admitted, News Staff Murday is satisfied with what he ac· "They don't really offer anything complished, knowing that the few special," but, noting their increasing 
You would see him ambling improvements made are only the popularity, added, "It just shows the ac::ross.campus, light blue fishing hat first steps toward a better atmos­need for alternatives on campus." perched on a head of scraggly hair. phere for students. Murday's good relations with ad­You'd look at his scruffy beard, faded Reflecting on the most visible im· ministration officials was his and patched jeans, and you had to provements, the Oak Room and See MURDAY, page 5 ask yourself, "That's Notre Dame's Student Body President?" 
Don Murday, a senior of Avon, N.j., may not look like the typical 
.SMC aw_aiQ_s presentedDomer, but appearance isn't every­thing. A hard worker with the goal of improving student body life, Murday 
to students, faculty worked with, not against, the Ad­ministration on new ideas such as By-MARGARET FOSMOE tained a 3.8 grade point average the Oak Room Cafeteria and the Saint Mary's Executive Editor every semester. Chautauqua Coffeehouse. Rosemary Doherty, a.<~sociate 
Vice President for Student Affairs, Awards were presented to Saint professor of English, received the Fr. john Van Wolvlear, said "Of all Mary's students and several SMC 25th annual Spes Unica Award. This the presidents, Don's the only one 
faculty members at the annual award, based on student nomina­who informed the Administration Honors Convocation conducted last tions, is presented each year toofficers about the projects he was week in O'l..aughlin Auditorium. honor excellence in teaching andworking on." 
Seniors graduating summa cum service to the College.
Students were also impressed laude (with a cumulative grade Doherty has taught at Saint Mary's with Murday and his Vice President, point average from 3.8-4.0), magna since 1961. She acted as freshmanTara Kenney. Julian Rowe, junior Class President and Student Senator, 
cum laude ( 3.6-3.8 ), and cum laude dean from 1971·78 and in 1977 was said of Murday, "1 think he was very ( 3.4-3.6) were presented awards. promoted to associate professor In good, considering he did get some In addition, the names of under­her department. Doherty also 
things done, while other presidents classmen with outstanding chaired the curriculum committee haven't done anything." academic achievement were an­during the 1980·81 school year. She What effect has Murday's ad­nounced. In order to qualify for this 
See AWARDS, page 4ministration had on Notre Dame's honor, students must have main· social life? There haven't been that 



The Observer Friday, May 14, 1982 -page 4 
Recent assault 
Securityeyes Saint Mary's Road 

Cameras abounded during Senior Week events as everyone wanted to make sure they bad pictures oftheirfriends. (photo by Cheryl Ertelt) 
By BOB VONDERHEIDE 

Associate News Editor 
Notre Dame security has in­creased its protection on Saint Mary's road after a man with scissors attacked a Saint Mary's student near the Community Cemetary at I0:IS 
p.m. Sunday May 2. 

Security has received at least five other reports in the past two weeks of suspicious persons on the road which connects Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. However, there has been only one report of an assault, Assistant Security Director Rex Rakow said yesterday. 
The Saint Mary's student was at­tacked from behind by a man who attempted to cut her hands and wrists with a pair of scissors. The women, who was walking alone, was able to escape after hitting the man, and she was treated for a three-inch cut on her hand, a puncture wound on her wrist and a sore ankle in­curred in escaping. 
South Bend Transpo shuttle driver Penny Nemeth reported seeing a "suspicious character" standing in the road about one half 
hour before the attack. But Nemeth was unable to connect the Transpo Office on the shuttle phone until later. 
.........................................................................
. .
-

•
• 
•., .••• 
• 
•
•
• 
• •
•

• !• Now that you've graduated, !• ! it's time to go for your "MBR" i 
: "Master of Business 

• 
Risk"-it's not a formal : degree such as those offered 

• 
by a university. "MBA" refers 

• 
to the expertise you acquire atI The Home Insurance Com­

• 
pany in mastering the com­

• 
plexities of the property­: casualty industry. 

• 
The Home is one of the 

• 
nation's most respected, 

• 
dynamically progressive : property-casualty insurers. 

• 
Our annual revenues exceed 

• 
$2 billion and we are a sub­: sidiary of City Investing, a 

• 
diversified $7 billion/year 

• 
company with business inter­; ests all over the world. 

• 
Our mission as a company 


• 
is to help people, businesses ; and institutions manage and 

• 
protect against risk. Risk is 


• 
present in every aspect of our ; lives. Intelligence and care 

• 
may reduce it-but as long as : buildings are erected, prod­

• 
ucts are manufactured, oil 

• 
wells are drilled, planes fly, 

• 
and people play or work-risk 

• 
will exist. Each situation is 

• 
'• different-understanding the • differences, evaluating them, ; protecting against the risks • they entail and compensating • people fairly when accidents ; · occur, is what makes the 



: 
•
: 
: ROCK THE BOAT 
• .our progress depends on it

•
•

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 
MANAGEMENT
TRAINEES 
property-casualty industry 
such a fascinating challenge. 
Our Management Training Program is designed to develop the skills necessary to meet this challenge. A Bachelor's Degree with academic distinction (GPA 3.0) is a minimum requirement. A major in Management, Economics, Accounting, Finance or Business Law is preferred and a Master's Degree would be an advantage. 
The Home is an extraor­dinarily exciting place for ambitious, self-confident achievers eager to test themselves and advance their careers. Our management is notable for encouraging and rewarding innovation. We believe in selecting exceptional men and women and within a short time placing them in positions of significant responsibility. Super-charged performers enjoy accelerated upward mobility that is remarkable by any standards. 
Financial rewards are com-: 
mensurately outstanding, • 
with highly competitive : 
starting levels and increases • 
that keep pace with each • 
individual's achievements. : 
Benefits are excellent. • 
You must be available to • begin our Training Program in : July. After initial training, you • must be willing to relocate, if • required, so that your skills • can be applied where they are ; needed most. Assignment to a • field office in the vicinity of • your home will often be ; possible; we have offices • throughout the United States • and Canada. ; 
It is important to note that • the company values and • rewards achievements in a ; "line" position out in the field • on an equal basis with contri-• butions made at our corporate ; headquarters. • 
If you meet our high : standards...are unusually • articulate... are·able to think • well on your feet ... have • the courage to question con-• ventional thinking ...and I •• are determined to take a major • step forward in your career ; ... we invite you to send • your resume, outlining your • goals to: ;
• 

Lawrence L. Castiglione, Dept. ND : m
The Home Insurance Company : 
59 Maiden Lane, New York, NY 10038 .• 
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F • 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 



'··················~····················································= 
The assailant was described as ap­
proximately 20 years old, five feet, 
seven inches in height, medium 
build, white, with dark hair. 

Rakow said security is using plainclothes officers and officers on bikes to patrol the area. "We are 
definitely concerned about the road," Rakow said, "and we're doing what we can." Presently, there are no suspects. 
"One ofour biggest frustrations is that people waited hours or even days before reporting, and its hard for us to respond," said Rakow. 
The most common incidents, however, have been thefts from the dorms while people prepare to leave. One arrest of a bike theif recovered two stolen bikes, Rakow 1>aid. "Thefts have been pretty high. People are lax on what they lock up, and there are people out there who don't belong." 
Rakow noted that seurity has found several items such as suit cases, and he said if students would write seurity about items they are missing, seurity might be able to locate them. 



Notre Damestudent hitsbikeron Rt. 31 
By MICHELE DIETZ 
Senior StaffReporter 

A IS-year-old female St. Joseph High School student was hit while on her bike by a male Notre Dame student driving northbound on route 3I approximately II:30 p.m. last night, according to South Bend County Police. 
Admitted to the emergency ward at Memorial Hospital, the victim was reported to be in "guarded condi­tion" as of I a.m., according to Nurse 
continuedfrom page 3 

holds a B.A. from Saint Louis Univer­
sity and a M.A. from the University of 
Illinois In Urbana, IL. 

Gail Mandell, associate professor of humanistic studies, received the seventh annual Maria Pieta Award. The Maria Pieta Award, also based on student nominations, is presented each year in recogniza­tion of skill, dedication, and excel­lence in teaching, particularly in 
'lower division courses. 
Nancy Sherwood. 

The accident occurred in front of the new facility of WNDU studio. According to Corporal Andy . Pletcher of the South Bend County Police, the girl was "badly hurt" but 
was not in danger ofdying. 

No further information was released by these sources regarding names, etc. Corporal Pletcher, however, stated the girl was in stable condition with a broken leg and minor injuries. 
.. •AUJards 
In addition, 42 Saint Mary's stu­
dents were inducted into Kappa 
Gamma Pi during the convocation. 
Winners of the English depart­ment's Writing Proficiency Contests were also announced. The winners for the fall contest were Mary Francis Decelles and Kathleen Cur­ran. Receiving honorable mention were Teresa Welch and Stacey Wike. 
34 nominations for Who's Who in American Universities andColleges 
were also announced. 

University of 
NOTRE DAME GlEE ClUB 

COMMENCEMENT CONCERT 
Saturday May 15, 1982 9:00p.m• Stepan Center 
oy YOUR foo W€€k€n0atth€ plymouth mot€l, plymouth, ln. -..n€Wly R€b€CORat€b ROOms 

~ *rR€€ corr€€, *casl€ t.v., *aiR conbftlomnq, ~€l€CtRical hookup foR 
camp€Rs. Call foR R€S€RVatlons, phon€ 1-936-4555. 
-----~--------­
-
The Observer Friday, May 14, 1982 page 5 
...Notre Dame 
continuedfrom page 1 private jet Sunday morning and will the Opera Company of Boston, will be met by University president receive a doctor of fine arts degree,
Study Program. Weber, who 
Father Theodore Hesburgh and Ed­and Cambridge University mathe­majored in chemistry, also par­
mund Stephan, retiring chairman of matics professor Stephen Hawkingticipated in the Neighborhood Study 
the Notre Dame Board ofTrustees. 
will be awarded a doctor of scienceProgram. 
A small motorcade will take them degree.Bollas and Weber will accompany 
directly to the Athletic and convoca­The University's Laetare Medalthe three top ranking individuals in 
tion Center. 
will be awarded to retired Detroiteach ofthe University's four colleges Former Secretary of State Cyrus archbishop John Cardinal Dearden. 
as flag bearers during Baccalaureate will be an
Vance also awarded The medal Is given annually to dis­Mass tomorrow. 
honorary LL.D. Vance, currently a 
tinguished American Catholics.
Female co-valedictorians reflect a New York City attorney, resigned as change in Notre Dame academics Secretary ofState two years ago after since women were first admitted to the Iranian hostage rescue attempt the University ten years ago, Assis­he opposed was aborted. 
f(J"'" MO"CHIES 
60951 U.S. 11 Soath 

tant t Provost Sister John Miriam Others receiving LL.D.'S include 
Soath Bend, I"

Jones noted in a recent Observer ar­United States Court ofAppeals judge 
Z91-6064

ticle. Robert H. Bork; trustee and Caron 
Choice of:
"I think it's very interesting that in International President John Caron; the tenth year of coeducation at television executive and Sesame 
8oz.N.Y.Sirlp 

Notre Dame, our covaledictorians Street creator Joan Ganz Cooney; 
steamed snnmp Lake Perch ONLY$5.95 •

are women, and that half of our Yale University president A. Bartlett 
highest-ranking students are women Giamatti; Saint Louis University 
88QRibs (InclUdes soupfrog Legs &salad bar-)

as well," she said. English professor Rev. Walter). Ong; 
flied ChiCken 

Trudeau is the third foreign head and Crown American Corporation 
Baked Ham 

of state to receive an honorary doc­president Frank). Pasquerilla. 
Open Sanday 4:10-10:00pm
tor of laws ,pegree. His predecessor Sarah Caldwell, artistic director of as head of.Canada's Liberal Party, 1 Lester Pearson, addressed Notre Dame's graduation in 1963. ~~-------------­
The Prime Minister will arrive by 

Argentineans ~ ~ 
The N:Jire Dome So1n1 rliay~ ·

petition ~ 
Ctt.c:eThe<J1re pre!oenl5 
• • • Saint Mary~ govemffient l 
·By DENISE SMITH 
had more than 90 one-man exhibi­



I i OuR
continuedfrom page 1 
and KENNETH GOLONKA
tions throughout the United States 
News Staff
log seniors and their parents will be and Canada. His work is in the col­
held at 9 p.m. In the Convention Hall lections of more than 60 museums 
I ,-~lt:'JG
A petition to pressure the Argen­
at South Bend's Century Center. including the Rockefeller Memorial 
tinean government into disclosing
414 members of the class of 1982 Chapel at the University ofChicago, 
LU~GRT
the whereabouts of more than ~ 
will receive their degrees at the the RCA Building in New York and 
15,000 people who have disap­
Commencement exercises, the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts. i 
peared in that country since the 
I

scheduled for 10:30 am. tomorrow Laliberte served as artist-in­\
take-over of a new government in In the Court of LeMans Hall. In case residence at Saint Mary's from 1960 
1976 was circulated last week in the ~ 
ofrain, Commencement will be held to 1962. He will receive an honorary 
lobby ofthe Memorial Library. i 
In Angela doctor of fine arts degree from the 
The petition drive, sponsored by 
I
~ 

Kelley Kirwan, a biology major College. 
the Nobel Peace Prize winning from Louisville, Ky., Is the Valedic­Metropolitan Opera baritone Stil­human rights organization Amnesty i 
torian for this year's graduating well is a graduate ofthe Indiana Uni­International, is only the latest in a i MAY 13.14 or 8pm class. versity School of Music. He made his series of attempts on behalf of a Oloughl1n Milor,,,m 
I
~ 

In addition, Belgian-born poet operatic debut with the leading or­group of Argentinean people, the Catherine de Vinck will deliver the chestras andd conductors of the Mothers of Plaza de Mayo. i commencement address and world. Stilwell recently appeared in The group consists mainly of ~ receive an honorary doctor of let­the role of Marcello in the parents, relatives, and friends of 
i For nformohoo call ~-4176 
ters degree during the ceremony. Metropolitan Opera's new Zeffirelli those citizens who have been ar­
i

Primarily a religious poet, de Vinck production of"La Boheme." Stilwell rested or who have disappeared. has several published volumes of will receive an honorary doctor of L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The groups hope that the govern­
poetry lncludlngA Book ofUncom­music degree. 
ment will inform the families of the 
mon Prayers, Ikon, and her most Leighton will be awarded an 
whereabouts of those they believe 
recent work, A Garland of Straw. honorary doctor of fine arts degree 
to be held and either release those 
carl 1JIIt?rl~§l2t?§tcaurcall
She has also had articles published In for her support of the arts. Locally 
without charge or give them a trial. 
the New York Times, Cross· cu;.-:· she is the chairman of the board and 
nmts, andSign. past president of the South Bend 
Brother Rod Stru' a member In the past de Vinck has worked of Amnesty International, said the
Symphony Orchestra Association ~~ G¥a_s~ on the English liturgy and In 1970 and chairman of the Friends of the mothers "have been meeting in 
~,c,
became a member of the Ecumeni­Snite Museum ofArt. She is also past front ofthe government house every cal Pslater Project, a subcommittee president of the Michlana Arts and Thursday for five years in silent of the North American Consultation Sciences Council and is a member of protest to demonstrate their an­on Common Texts. She also serves the Saint Mary's Board of Regents. In quish. They are a living symbol of as a consultant to the International 1975 Leighton received Saint Mary's the grief endured by the Argen­Committee on English In the Community Service Award in tinean people, of a motherly love, Liturgy. recognition of her contributions to and a need for peace, justice and un­
Internationally-known artist Nor­the Michiana area. derstanding." man Laliberte, baritone Richard Stil­Immediately following the Com­The petition drive, which con­well, and local businesswoman Mary mencement then: will be a hrunch cluded on Mother's Day, collected 
Lou Morris Leighton will also in the dining hall. There will also be more than 200 signatures from the receive honorary degrees. tours of the new library every half Notre Dame-Saint Mary's com­Laliberte, an arti..~t and author, has hour tomorrow, from I to 3 p.m. munity. 
.Murday
' ' 
If (Director of Student Activities
continuedfrom page 3 
came into office so I didn't have to 
James) McDonnell or Fr. Van says 
go through that rigamarole of taking 
something will happen, it'll wait and 
two or three weeks to get to know see."
greatest ao;set. "This is a bureaucracy people." 
Student life at Notre Dame didn't
-a routine," said Van Wolvlear, He wasn't an idealist. He knew he 
change much while Don Murday
"and you have to know which door couldn't get much accomplished in 
was president, but the few genuine
to knock on to get a 'yes' answer and one year. "All you can do," he ex­
improvements -the Oak Room,
a 'no' answer. Don really got around plained, "Is ask for the administra­
Chautauqua, and a much more ef­
-he got to know the administration tion's cooperation and for them to 
fective Student Senate -were sig­
better than anybody else." listen honestly to what you have to 
nificant. It will be several years
Murday knew which doors to say, not just going in one ear and out 
before real improvements show, and
knock on before he took office In the other. 
Murday understands this. "If I come
April of 1981. He was involved with "There are always people who 
back here in four years and see 
campus government a~ president of aren't going to be straight with you," 
laundry machines on the North 
Carroll Hall In 1980-81, and he said, he conlinued. "When Fr. Hesburgh 
Quad," he said, "I'll take pride in 
"I developed a working relationship or (Provost Timothy) O'Meara says 
knowing I started the push for 
with the administration before I something will happen, it'll happen. 
them." 


~ 
j 
J 
~ 
f 
f Special Women at Notre Dame 
Friday, May 14, 1982 -page 6 
Largestrides taken 
Coeducation: job incom.plete 
By SONYA STINSON 
StaffReporter 
After ten years ofcoeducation, the traditional image ofNotre Dame as a "male bastion" has yielded to in­clude women who are participating more fully in campus life, yet we still have a long way to go in t>uilding so­cial relationships, say students and administrators. 
"I'm sure that there are other campuses that have similar problems. But I'm also sure that there are other campuses where men and women have an easier time socially,"said Jim McDonnell, direc­tor of student activities. The lack of space for social activities is one reason Notre Dame has more problems than students from other campuses, McDonnell added. 
Former Student Body Vice Presi­dent Tara Kenne t y helped to present the proposal for a new student cen­ter as :m answer to the need for so­cial space. "We took a look at the social alternatives on campus and 
there weren't too many," Kenney 
said. She said that most students do 
not view LaFortune as a place to 
gather socially. 
McDonnell agrees. "People don't 
perceive LaFortune as a student cen­
ter, and they certainly don't per­
ceive it as a place to meet people," 
he commented. 
McDonnell said a Student Ac­
tivities survey shows that students 
want facilities for activities that 
would bring people together. They 
have suggested a bowling hall, 
gamerooms, a movie theater, and a 
place for dancing. They also want 
more of a variety of eating places, 
"something with a decor more in­
ti~ate than the Huddle," he sug­
gested. 
More social space might help 
make a better social life possible for 
Notre Dame men and women, but 
McDonnell thinks it is not enough. 

"You can put up a new building and it might get people together, but at­titudes will still need to change. "Anybody who thinks that putting up 
_a building will solve problems in in­terpersonal relations is not being realistic," he said. 
Another concern which ties in with the problem of social space is the lack ofND student dating. "I hear students complain that there is no place to take a date," McDonnell said. "And there's not much excite­ment in having a bag of popcorn at the Huddle." 
Another reason for this deficiency is the fact that some students prefer to concentrate on academics. "A lot of students would like to defer any sort of involvement until they get their degree," Fr. Greg Green, Assis­tant Vice President for Student Af. fairs, commented. 
Kenney added, "You have to make sacrifices. And the easiest sacrifice to make is to give up the social life. Here you can't really accommodate all your social needs if you want to be successful." 
Part ofthe problem is shyness and a lack of confidence, McDonnell said. "How do you convince a guy that it's not so bad to ask somebody out? If his problem is that the guys think the girls have other plans, then maybe we need a survey to show how many would real~y like to out on a date. IfI were in that age group, I would rather have a date than just go out drinking with the guys. And I think the majority of students feel the same way." 
Fr. John Van Wolvlear, Vice Presi­dent for Student Affairs, pointed out another possible reason for the separation of the sexes. "I think the macho image of the male has made interaction difficult. Before women were admitted, Notre Dame was known as a male bastion. Now, with women getting into the spotlight, 
Varying opinions 





f Women discuss coeducation 
f By SUSAN O'HARA ' News Staff 
Notre Dame women leaders hold varying opinions about the effects coeducation has had on the Univer­sity. 
Jackie Bollas, one of this year's valedictorians felt the key to social improvement lies in academics. "They must admit women to the University using the same criteria they use for men. Otherwise this im­balance creates the feeling that Notre Dame women are here solely for academics, which is threatening for Notre Dame men. And many men," she added, "wouldn't date a smarter girl." 
"Women are encouraged to achieve in the classroom yet, when they do, are they still feminine since achievement is primarily a mas­culine activity?" she said. Although the social life may be lacking in some areas, Bolas said there is "great potential for spiritual growth at Notre Dame." She noted that "ND was a healthy environment for me; I enjoyed the Catholic atmosphere." 
Mary Ann Fenwick, an active member of the organization Com­munity for the International Lay 
Editor's Note: This page is a con­densed version of a four page Ob­seroer News Supplement that appeared April21 commemorating the tenth anniversary ofwomen as students at the University ofNotre Dame. 


Apostulates (CILA), says, ""a more 
diverse student body" would lead to 
an improved social life at Notre 
Dame. 
"We lead a sheltered existence at 
Notre Dame because there isn't all 
types ofpeople." She added that "we 
need a balance between men and women." 
'Women are encouragedto achieve in the classroom 
yet, when they do, 
are they stilt feminine ... ?' 
Academically, Fenwick thinks that "we have to take too m t any credits per semester and ultimately you can't devote much time to any one class." She concluded that, "Notre Dame can give students challenges to grow as individuals." 
To improve the social life at Notre 
Dame we must "increase the allot­
ment of women, said Tara Kenney, 
former student body vice president. 
Either that or "introduce co­
educational dormitories" which 
Kenney admitted "is not a feasible competing in all areas, the men feel they have to be more macho." 
But he also believes that attitudes toward women at Notre Dame have changed over the years, and that the men have gotten more used to having them around. "Years ago the guys would whistle whenever there was a girl around, because it was so rare," he pointed out. He also said that "there has been a definite in­crease in social activity since women were admitted." 
Acontinued focus on the problem ofsocial space and an increase in in­terhall activities were among the suggestions for improving male­female relationships. There was also the suggestion that attitudes will have to change and that students must take some initiative. "I don't know if much can be done about it administratively if the students don't do it on their own," said Fr. Green. 

ND-SMC 

Relationship limited but changing 
ByMARGARET FOSMOE 
and MARY AGNES CAREY 
Saint Mary's Editors 

After ten years ofwomen at Notre 
Dame, one might believe that a com­
munity has developed between the 
women of ND and Saint Mary's. But 
has it? 

Administrators and students on both campuses have different opinions on the subject but they all agree that the situation needs im­provement. 
Notre Dame Dean of Students James Roemer said that he had not witnessed many of the stereotypes that exist on both campuses, but rather that a "good-working relationship" exists. Roemer has also witnessed a "healthy respect and a mature relationship between the two groups." 
Dame, Kenney said "The spiritual life at ND is outstanding in com­parison with other schools," al­though in the future Kennedy would like to see women rectors. 
On the whole Kenney is "very much satisfied with Notre Dame. The social life may be regressing but it is compensated for ten fold in many other ways. Notre Dame is the best decision I've ever made." 
"Isolated under an ivory tower" are the words Shari Matvey, a leading women athlete used to describe the social life at ND. "We're pretty limited, especially since there's not much to do off-campus." But the limited social life at ND 
"encourages better friendships," Matvey added. "It is easy to find someone with the same interests as you." 
As for the University's academic curriculum, Shari feels it is "good, al­though there is too much emphasis on maintaining a high GPA which leads students to take the lightest load possible. Some students are not learning for the sake oflearning." 
Martha Jiminez, former head of CILA, believes "a centrally located calendar that would describe all the events going on" as well as "more open-type getting together to meet teachers and students on a more casual basis in an atmosphere con­ducive to social interaction" is what ND needs to stimulate its social life. 
"People need to get involved. Notre Dame offers a lot but people must take advantage of the lectures, 
idea with the statements Fr. Ted has discussions, films, and debates. made concerning co-ed dorms." Learning can be fun, it doesn't have 
Notre Dame will always respect think it's a standard stereotype that 
the presence ofSaint Mary's women, is carried on year after year," she Roemer assured, citing the said. Alumni/Senior Bar that offers stu-. Mary O'Keefe has served as a hall 
dents at both schools a great deal of socialization. 
A lot, he adds, has been done to encourage NO and SMC women to meet each other and "the record over the years will show a good healthy relationship." 
Saint Mary's Dean of Student Af­fairs Kathleen Rice agrees that ef­forts, such as activities for both ND and SMC students on their perspective campuses, have been planned to establish "friendships and relationships between the two bodies of women." Notre Dame women, she added, are "always invited" to attend any lectures, workshops or other functions at Saint Mary's that might interest them. 
''I think that there's an image problem between the two schools," she stated, "stereotypes that prevent people from meeting each other," established prejudices she'd like to eliminate through "forums (that al­
low ND-SMC women) to meet each other." 1981-82 Saint Mary's Student Body President Eileen Murphy disagreed that a strong effort has been made to involve the women from both institutions in activities. "ND, it seems, likes to separate it­self from Saint Mary's. I've ex­perienced a few people in just the right places...that feel very self­sufficient. I think that's a very dan­gerous mistake. "Obviously (there's) much room for improvement on both sides," she 
said, adding that more thought than action pervails. Most of the in­dividual class and hall governments, 
rather than SMC or ND student governments themselves, plan ac­tivities between the groups. Any criticism, she stressed, is only given "in hopes that something con­structive will happen." 
Saint Mary's sophomore Kathleen Murphy, SBP for the 1982-83 school year, said that past efforts from her experiences as freshman council chairman and sophomore class president to combine NO and SMC women "weren't well populated. 
"They have their relationship with their school and we have ours," she said, but "this supposed split (between the two schools) is just in their minds." 
During her term she plans to bring the student governments of both campuses together to plan activities for NO and SMC women. 
Junior Anne Bodoh, ND transfer orientation commissioner, said that enough social interaction is provided between the women of both schools but that stereotypes representative, sophomore class vice president and junior class presi­dent during her four years at Saint Mary's, and has seen "an overall im­provement in the relationship with Notre Dame and Saint Mary's women. 
"As class president, I had to get to know the girls and work with them. I never had that bias, that prejudice, that opinion (stereotypes of ND women). Notre Dame women also agreed that (any prejudice) was a narrow way of thinking." 
Nina Deleone, a ND junior who has served for three years on the freshman orientation committee arid is next year's student alumni representative on the student cabinet, thinks such prejudice is "only an image that is not really carried out...l think it's taken more to heart the freshman year. 
"People talk about it a lot but in true relationships it's not like that at all," Deleone said. 
Deleone believes that as the male­female ratio at ND grows more equal, pressures will be lessened on both colleges. She noted that in addi­tion to aiding the relationship be­tween the women, "it may help male-female relationships too." 
Mary Anne O'Donnell has served as director of student activities at Saint Mary's during the past two years and as Regina Hall director during her first year at SMC,and she stated that coordination of both groups of women "depends on the personality of the people you're working with." 
Some students base their percep­tion on others "judging on a bad ex­perience or two some people have 
had,"  O'Donnell  said,  but  those  
opinions  cannot  describe  either  
group as a whole.  

One ND senior transfer student, who asked not to be identified, said there are "a lot of bad feelings" be­tween the women ofboth schools. 
This student transferred from a women's college affiliated with a men's college that had gone co­educational seven years earlier, a relationship similar to the present one between ND and SMC. 
"Starting out at the same type of school, I found the women's school to be cut off...socially from the other school." 
This student believes the same fate may be in store for Saint Mary's. ''I'm afraid that this (a social barrier) will happen to Saint Mary's. I don't want it to happen, but as it (the ND male/female ratio) levels off, I tend to think there will be less interac­
't~.:·~·iii··j····i~i-·i-~--~·5· i'i~5· ,~·';ii--~··-i·j-~·-i·..~· ......... ..,_.,~iai·i~~~~~·i·-~aLi,.:,N~"·~::?~.lf'~.S~--~-t~;:~--~~.:~..:....ise~gi··ai,~~~~t.e~.:...iJ£io~;~~-"'~·r~.£.~~~'~-'~~?~.;iL~~~~~i.~~l:.~·~.i~;,.~::;.. ..·rr.~
..i·-i·~--~·i.~;..,.~·,=-,~-Asid~~~-~i·~,~-!f~~o~··mii.tj~i~~~o.c~ ~::;~Pi·~e~..:..v.~-~~n~.:..,~.~~~:;.=w~ur~·~~~in~g~,r~.e=la=t~.io~n~.s=hi=-·~IL=·=··~~~~-:=}~i.o~ ..~~·~:~~~~~-~s~~~-·~~~~·::-~~~-i·~~::~~~:-:~.~~·:-~.-~~~-;;::~~;:iiii 


Top Ten Campus News Stories of 1981-82 
Friday, May 14, 1982-page 7 

Frese suit settled 
A sex discrimination suit involving present and for­mer Notre Dame women professors at Notre Dame, who were represented by Professor Dolores Frese, was settled out ofcourt. Frese was granted tenure and Notre Dame was exonerated of the discrimination charges. Sister Madonna Kolbelnschlag and Ann LaCombe, two of the women Frese represented, attempted to appeal the settlement but were forced to withdraw when they could not alford legal costs. 

Hesburgh retums 
Rev. Theodore Heshurgh accepted an offer from the Board ofTrustee~ to remain as president ofNotre Dame for rht· nexr five yt·ars. An ·ad hoc Trustees' committee made the recommendation which was unanimously ap­proved lw the hoard "The decision resulted mainly from the Trustee~· conviction that we have .tt this llni­\'er~ity great leadership and have had for ~o years,'' said former Board Chairman Edmund Stephan. Heshurgh, however, wa.~ not "jumping for joy" over tht· decision because he kit that now would have been a good time to "get out." 
/Jod PonJ ,..,. • 


Ibe Obserwr 
zrr::rr·r·'c" ----=·­


::"'~-;-~·~ 
~ ---.
.-. -.

' Strip search suit 
Seven Saint Mary's students filed suit in U.S. District 
..... Court la'it November seeking more than $140,000 from the city of South Bend for emotional damages suffered in a strip search of the women following their arrest in 19RO for underage drinking. The women claimed that their constitutional rights were violated when a female officer strip searched the students during processing. In spring 19R I, the city dismissed the underage drinking charges against the women who all pleaded innocent, yet it was unclear then whether the women would sue for the search. The suit has not been settled. 

Pasquerilla halls dedicated 
The htrgt·st gift to Notre Dame by a living person financed the construction of the first dormitories built exdusively for women. Benefactor Frank). Pasquerilla and his wife Sylvia attended dedication ceremonies for l'asquerillas East and West last November. Pasquerilla's $7 million donation enabled the University to add 500 women to the student body. The dormitories are located on the northeast corner of the campus, behind the North Dining HalL 



Financial aid crunch 
The Reagan administration budget cuts made for a tough year at the Notre Dame Financial Aid Office this year. The federal Department of Education, whose programs 58 percent Qf the assistance given to Notre Dame students, was unable to allocate a definite amount for its 1982-83 programs because ofthe uncer· talnty surrounding what programs would be cut and how much. The Guaranteed Student LOan Program and the Pell Grants, however, faced heavy cutbacks aJI along. Said Russo: "We will survive but we won't be able to solve every problem." 
Po/uhfmNI-,.11• 7 


Drug incident abroad 
Twenty-two Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students were implicated in an hashish incident involving foreign study programs in Angers, France and ln­nsbruck, Austria. Eventually, 21 of the students ad­mitted to the widespread use ofhashish, and action was taken by the each school's dean ofstudents. Most ofthe students were dismissed, but some were allowed to apply for readmission. No names were released for fear that the Austrian government might file their own criminal charges against the students. 

' 

Nestle boycott continues 
....I -After wt•eks of forums and dehates, tht• Notre· Damt· ..:=-"'=-=--==:::...-: --·--student body voted last March to continut· the cunpus· 0'Meara, 1-IPC discuss campus social lik f~~ wide boycotl of Nestle produns hy a tnar~o:in of almoM 
two·to-orw. ~tut.knt~ originally voted to hoycott in Mart·h. 19-H. prote~ring NestIt-'s pron·dun:s in marl.t·t­ing their infant ttJrrnula in the Th1rd \\ orld Represcntarin·s for tht· Nt·stll' Corporation wt•rt· on campus to deknd tht'ir pron·dures, while the Notrt· Dame World Hunger Coalition supportt•d tht• hoycotr. 

.~fa h~~ ~!!e-5 ~'{::' 
Famed Polish director arrives 
World-renowned Polish dirt"Ctor and professor Kazimierz Braun arrived at Notre Damt· in late February after martial law in Poland detained his arrival at tht· beginning of the semester. He was unable to teach the two courses for which he was scheduled, but he did direct the teleplay "The Card Index." A visiting profes­sor from the University ofWroclaw, Poland, Braun also lectured on the history of Polish theatre. Braun declined to speak on the present politics in Poland or martial law, preferring to let the facts speak for them­selves. 


Hesburgh in El Salvador 
University President Theodore Hesburgh joined an international delegation that observed the general elec­tions in El Salvador last March. Hesburgh said that after personally visiting a number ofpolling areas around the country, he and other delegation members concluded that the elections were "fair and free." The people in El Salvador proved "loud and clear" that they are united, Hesburgh said. Some students on campus, however, were not so impressed, and they held small protests against 1-Iesburgh's trip, including an open letter to l-Ies­burgh printed in The Observer asking him not to go. 

Distinguish:t:d Women 
NBC Anchorwoman Jane Pauley, Actress Helen Hayes, Second Lady Barbara Bush, and former U.S. Am-' bassador to Zambia Jean Wilkowski were just a few of, the noted American women who lectured in Notre · Dame's "Distinguished American Women" lecture series. The series celebrated the tenth year anniversary of coeducation at the University. The women who spoke in the series providedh$cinating accounts focus­ina on che wide variety of roles available to American women in the modern age. 


.t Editorials 
Friday, May 14, 1982 -page 8 


< 
' '
"·. 
-------·---·-·­




Improving social life 
This year marks the lOth an­niversary of coeducation at Notre Dame, but just about the only coeducation here is classes. Men and women sit in the same clas­srooms, but they do not know how to interact socially. 
EleanorGallo 
Students make friends in their dorms, yet few non-dating relationships develop between the sexes. What many people do not realize is education is not ex-elusively a classroom experience. 
There is so much men and women can learn from each other if they did more things together without worrying about the responsibilities of dating. An ef­fective way to institute this is to form coed dorms. 
Right away, some students will say coed dorms are too drastic to 

Changing the system 
What is it about this place that pits one person against another during the day only to join them during the night? Community, togetherness, family; all words so important to life, so stressed and impressed on us. Why is it that despite all this pressure for unity, we are being driven apart? 
Karen Hosinski 
wt tcad a 4oubtc DR at SCllooL During the evenings we joke, eat popcorn, laugh, love, kiss and talk, but during the day we cheat, com­pete, strive, worry and work with and against each other. 
Like the words to a favorite song "we're always proving who we are, always reaching for the rising star." 
-Lesley Gore.. We want to be the 
best, the top, butwe often go about 
it in a way that is not always the 
best. 
Competition is a drink. A little bit does not burt, but dependence on it ends in disaster. So much em­phasis is placed on being scholarly the real meaning of education is distorted. 
Education Is not reflected in a letter oo a piece of paper. Grades don't tell much about education, tbougb dial Is what we compete bindie namc oflearnin8-Grades ~ only scales ol·what a profi:ssor lndcscriminalely decides Is impor­tanL Eclucatlon is, rather, leamlng bow to u~ moally. What Is a ~or career but a way of UJe? 
bring men and women together. But this campus needs such a move to immediately improve the social life. An alternate plan is to build a new student center. That idea will not be made a reality for several years even if the administration decides to implement it. 
Another, more ominous objec­tion is certain to be raised by the administration. Where would our Catholic morals be if we allow coed dorms? We would still have them. 
Living in coed dorms would take the fun out of most things that compromise Catholic morals. People will not do something that has its challenge taken from it. Despite that, the .re will be some sexual activity which goes beyond a good-night kiss, yet that sort of activity occurs around here whether the administration is aware ofit or not. 
In spite of the negative view, 
I'm not knocking the system entirely, I'm joining the profession that supports this system. I'm talking about the interactions be­tween people and the problems that an academic situation causes between them. 
Is it possible to teach people to live morally in an this world? Many times I find that I get so caught up with bookwork and papers that I forget other people. 
I get bogged down by the ego trip I'm on, trying to beat the sys­tem by winning good grades. I lose track of my reason for coming to college: learning to be a better per­son -not only for myself; though that is a big part of my reason, but especially for the ones that I hope to teach someday. 
I can't offer any solutions, if I did Iwould be offon another ego trip. I don't have any answers, only ques­tions. If questioning is the way to come to truth as Socrates suggests, then maybe that's what I'm looking for. 
I offer a suggestion. It is addressed to anyone who is brave enough to admit that he or she (like me) is on personal vendetta for and against him/or herself. It is this: be simple in a complicated world; be humble in an egotistical world; be warm in a cold world; be cheerful in a gloomy world; and, most of aU, be yourself in a world where everyone is against you. 
Karen Hostnski Is ajunior educa­tion majoratSaintMary's. 
there are advantages to making the dorms coed. The most noticeable would be the improvement of the social life. Boys and girls would be forced to interact like ladies and gentlemen. Getting to know men and women as neighbors and friends will ease the peer pressure of feeling a need to have a boyfriend or girlfriend. Once we 
treat each other as friends and not as two separate sexes we will be better able to enter into more meaningful relationships. 
The question now is do the stu­dents want coed dorms? When asked, many friends spoke positively about having coed dorms, but many students oppose coed dormitories. Dorms could be set up to please all students. Some dorms could be set up so men and women live in alternate rooms, some could be every other floor, and a few could be left single-sex. 
I have faith in the Notre Dame students that should we ever in­stitute coed dorms, we will be mature about it. These students were accepted by the University because oftheir values and charac­ter as well as because of their academic achievements. Catholic values and character will not change simply by making the dorms coed Notre Dame students would continue living their same 
Notre Dame lives, but they would be living them together as a true community ofpeople. 
Eleanor Gallo is an Arts and Letters sophomore atNotre Dame. 


america 
Perrucchio letter 
Dearest Friends; 

The parents and family ofThomas Michael Perruccio would like to "thank" all of you for your prayers, tears, and contributions given towards our beloved son Thomas. 
We would like to share some of our memories of Thomas and 
Notre Dame with you, his friends. 
Thomas came to Notre Dame in September, 1975. As a freshman, his inquisitive mind was primed for a Notre Dame education. Mother Notre Dame took him into the fold and this quiet, unsophisticated freshman began his educational trek. His growth was rapid, and by the end of his freshman year, it was evident that Tom was now becoming a man. 
His sophomore year abroad, as part of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's College Rome Program, was one ofthe educational and social highlights ofTom's views on life and humanity. These experiences helped him persevere when he needed their strength. Tom's aware­ness of poverty and man's inhumanity to man became one of the paradoxes oflife that Tom began to challenge. 
He became to active in organizations that tried, sometimes in vain, to help cure or at least curb the injustices in the lives of the less fortunate. His witty approach to life gave rise to his own "unique" philosophy oflife. He often spoke of a real Christian life as nothing more than "kind love." 
His junior year at Notre Dame was a year of deep searching for truth. His academia was firmly cemented, and it gave rise to his mind's quest for right, in its purest form. Only at Notre Dame could the seriousness of these: ideals be intermingled with the gaiety of campuslife. Tom loved socializing. He enjoyed every moment offun 
made available to him through his friends. 
That summer Tom worked long and hard as a truck driver trying 
to help ease ourfinancial burden. He would often poke fun at himself 
by humorously stating that "manual labor was not for him." At one 
point, Tom felt very tired and we all agreed that he should be 
checked by a physician. He did and the doctors assured us that all 
was well ... 

Tom returned to Notre Dame for his senior year only to be strick­
en with viral cardiomyopathy, a heart condition rare in young 
people. We went out to be with him. The doctors told us that Tom 
had a poor prognosis stating that Tom's chances for survival were 
very dim. We returnedhome, confused, frightened and rather bitter. 
It was Tom who consoled us and asked that we not blame anyone 
but that we help him get well. Tom's determination to get well was 
greater than ever. He was put to complete bed rest and for one and 
one-half years, we never heard him complain or lose faith in his 
ability to get well. During these trying months. Friends came from all 
areas ofthe globe. 

Love was the byline at the Perruccio homestead: love of family, 
love of friend but the deepest love for Notre Dame. No one ever 
thought that when Tom rose from his bed in August of 1979 and 
stated that he was going back to Notre Dame to graduate that it 
would actually take place. But, the "Lady" did it for Tom. 
Tom returned to Notre Dame, and when he approached the 
campus via Notre Dame Avenue and saw the "Golden Dome," he 
said to his father, "Dad, I'm home." 
Tom.graduated, made more friends, went on to graduate school at 
Wesleyan University in his hometown of Middletown, Connecticut. 
Receiving a fellowship to do psychological research. 
Through his own research, he realized the severity of his condi­
tion. He was the first to know that his days were growing shorter and 
fewer. Although he tired quickly, he would rest and bounce back to 
meet a new friend, greet an old one, see his parents, or find a new 
cause to pursue. 

He made it easy for us; his demands on his family were practically 
none. The one thing he wanted, we tried to give was "love." 
The end came April 14, 1982, and the last words ofprayer spoken 
by Tom were "Notre Dame help me." We are sure she did. • 
God blessyou all, Love, Mr. andMrs. Perruccio andfamily 

..----------------------------------------.---------------~------~----------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer -Editorials Friday, May 14, 1982 -page 9 
j 




I Commencement I Trudeau at ND 
The University must be commended for its selection of Pierre Elliott Trudeau as this year's commencement speaker. Throughout his career, Trudeau has exemplified true states­manship. Since assuming office in 1968, Trudeau has always chosen to pursue the best interests ofCanada and her people. 
Even in his party's loss to the Conservatives in 1979, Trudeau acceptedJoseph Clark's election as more ofa change for the sake ofchange than a guage of his Liberal Party's per­formance. 
His handling of the Canadian economy and directing of a peace-seeking foreign policy stands as a testament to his political intelligence and diplomatic grace. 
Trudeau has skillfully handled the separationist Partie Quebecois while still supporting a bilingual nation. He has consistently fought to secure Canada's full independence, both from Great Britain and from the United States. 
Prime Minister Trudeau provides an open approach to politics, an approach which extends farther than the boun­daries of Canada. More than the leader of a single nation, Trudeau is a citizen of the world. 
de Vinck at St. Mary's 
Saint Mary's choice of Catherine de Vinck as commence­


Thefinal conflict 
ment speaker is a much-deserved tribute to an outstanding Catholic woman theologian and liturgical artist of current times. The author ofseveral books, de Vinck has also raised The talk ofrevolution was in the home." mencement protests and counter­six children. air. Leaflets were being dis­Campus Ministry thanked the protests did not depend on the 
"I want to stress hope," she explains. "The simple message tributed; rallies were being or­"Students Concerned About Com­length of Reagan's standing ova­ganized; angers were flaring on mencement" because "we may tion or the number of white
ofChrist -lightovercomes darkness. Life overcomes death." both sides. need all the crazy Christians we armbands In the crowd. Their ac­
Termed as "first and foremost a poet," de Vinck is also a 
can get." One professor con­complishments were evident in
theologian whose creativity makes her work relevant to cur­
demned the activities as "mindless the scores of students who finally
rent times. She believes "in this hard mystery" of life where Paul Kosidowski 
demonstrations of unconstructlve considered what their
there are no easy answers. de Vinck accepts the premise of The 1981 commencement edi­
purpose." And amidst all this was "commencement" meant. Many
suffering in one's life and asks, "Who wants life scraped of tion of the Obseroer was flooded 
the cold, ominous warning that wondered, as they bounced from 
pain?'' with earnest delarations of prin­"graduates must bring IDs to the shouting match to shouting match,
ciples -the sarcastic barbs and
Of her six children, the second, Oliver, had an original ex­ceremony." Colman McCarthy what the "universiry" had come to
unfriendly eggs that dominated the
pectancy of seven or eight years. Because of Catherine de observed an attitude of revolt signify to them in the past years. It
spring skies of the previous weeks
Vinck's devotion to Oliver, he lived to age 34. She saw Oliver nationwide. "The current campus made commencement more 
were mysteriously absent. 
as a "precious gift" to her family. "His total helplessness protests deserve to be celebrated "real." This may have been the
Witness the public statement of 
because they suggest that this is "conflict supreme" to those who
speaks to our hearts," she wrote in 1977, "calls us not merely 
"a mother of eleven" -"Anytime 
emphatically not a time to be
to pious emotions but to service ... Through Oliver, I have will commence on Sunday, but it is 
you can get the President of the 
passive." 
certainly not the only ideological
learned the deepest meaning ofcompassion." United States to speak at yourcom­
His words (student passivity -skirmish they have encountered
Truly, Catherine de Vinck provides a model for all Cat­mencement it is a great honor. So 
"boo!!") ring a familiar note, albeit during their academic career. Con­
holics who seek to integrate a profound religious life with the to you few students who don't hap­
a sour one, to those who follow the flict inherently pervades an 8000· 
concerns ofsecular society. pen to agree with some of his 
dialogue in the Observer and other member community striving
views and are protesting his arrival 
campus publications. To many, the toward a somewhat common goal.
-pack up your marbles and go 
"apathy-slinging" that has become It gives us strength; it gives us life. 
a trademark of keepers of the It makes us more "real." campus soapbox is fast approach­I am not trying to make roses out ing a level ofmonotony shared on­of the dung of everyday existence 
ly by I LoveLucy reruns. -university or otherwise. But
Never be afraidto change 
Despite the frustrations and conflict and even pain is the stuff occasional yawns, I must applaud education is made of. Comfort has the shouting, marching, writing no place in education; it turnsI am a senior this year. However, a year away, I became an American am much happier overall as a result and even the endless cries of humans into automatons while
I am not graduating like my class· Studies major. And the only way I of the change in majors, even mates are. could have done that was to delay though my intended career -"doesn't anybody care." They and giving the automatons the impres­
their creators are important to this sion that they are becoming more
my graduation. media-Is much more difficult to university's survival; they are a human.
Primarily thanks to electives in break into and much less secure
'fimothv ' ~ceiv-Arts and Letters, I survived sopho­than computer programming. manifestation of the conflict that, I When I contrast pre-and post­think, is Notre Dame's most pre­
In a waf: It is sad. I went through more year. Then I had to take So what meaning does this story graduation life, I always end up
cious, life-giving force. 
such freshman joys as Emil and physics -finally, I knew I did not have for you seniors? One of the with two slightly distorted 
I would like to think that Mr.
Freshman Seminar with some of belong in the College of Science most disappointing things I have scenarios: one is a group ofpeople
McCarthy and "mother of eleven"
them. The adjustment problems, and would never make it to May seen here is people who don't like in a classroom discussing what ex· 
read each other's statement and
the roommates, everything else 1982 unless I made a change. what they are doing, or sometimes actly it means to be human, in light 
carefully considered their ofthe writing ofa great thinker; therelated to leaving home for the first My only problem was what to do don't even like this place, period; opinions. I would like to think that 
time I experienced at the same with myself. I had other interests, yet they hang on, grumbling, com­other is a business luncheon where 
all readers ofthat Observer did the
time the rest ofthe Class of'82 did. but I had no idea how strong they plaining, working toward some­the topic of conversation is the Also, I have: developed some very were -until I began working for thing they may not even want, only same without dismissing one or marketing strategy of a laundry because the money will be there. both views as myopic extremism. detergent in Mississippi. I have
close friendships, ones that only The Obseroer in September of It is my hope that if you ever feel I suspect, though, that this been told that the latter Is "real."
four years of living in the same en­1980. After a talk with a sympat­would not be the case. Knee-jerkvirons can foster. For the first time hetic professor in the math depart­stuck In whatever you may be philosophies abound today. Politi­
in my life I'll be able to say honestly ment, who also saw that the doing, if your job is a drag and is When I am looking back froffi' 
cal polarization turns opinions into the outside In a few years, when I
about someone, "I miss him/her." interest was no longer there, I affecting your leisure time, if you But at the same time, I am very decided to change my boat three­really did not want to be an en­"liberal" and "conservative" am old and grown and a f.lther and checklists. Our "f.lvorites" are
happy with my situation In most quarters of the way across the gineer or whatever after all, even if a detergent salesman in Mississip­
dictated by bestseller lists, award
ways. I was able: to see -finally, by river. I was further convinced after you are making really big bucks af­pi, I will no doubt be comfortable, 
shows or Casey Kasem. 
last May -that I was not meant to taking a summer course that I had ter a year or two -that you will as I have always wanted to be. I wlll be a mathematics concentrate. I to change, which I did last july not be afraid to change your mind. Such are the characteristics of a look back and remember a time was f.liling in my attempts at attain­even though I knew I would have After all, I don't know about you, sociery hooked on comfort, a place when I was forced to think and 
Ing my original goal of a math de· to stay at least one more semester. but I'd rather be doing something I where there Is rarely time to think, when others were forced to think gree with a career goal of The change helped, because my like doing at Jl0,000 a year than where Ideological plagiarism is the with me. I will thank God that I was computer programming. And academic woes were affecting the something I don't at S30,000. Even rule. These are the qualities that once there and was once one of upon seeing that, even though my rest of my life at Notre Dame, and if it means staying in college a distinguish "real" and "unreal." those thinking people. And I will expected graduation date was only to a greater extent, my home life. I semester longer than the norm. The success of last year's com-try to be one once again. 
The Observer--~=-~··= Editorial Board Departnu·nt Managers 
'If,. r''"'"''~" " .1n mdcpcndtnt ncv.,r.tr~-r pul">lt\ht·d by the )tuJenh uf the 
l.tlllor Ill ( lrtt•f \h, h.td \toni. lfll.\t/11'" 1/tlllttg•·r I'"'' .\ll·llo !'"'"'"''"of Nollt" I hme du l.J• .111d ~jlnf Mary\ ( ulle.I!C It Jues rot nt\c~,.Hil)· I{\ .111 \ t·r lkrl..mot·, { 1111//"1/1/("1"
lltlll<f.~llf.~ hltlor I nt '<. hul.1. rdktt the pol,, u·, of the Jdmml'll.lllun o! t"lther lmtttutton. The nl'w~ 1~ n:port 
f.l'l'l llftl'l' \('In l:tlrlur t-.ellr I lull lt/r't'I"/I.HII.<. lftlll<l,~<"l I hr" l hn·n nl J\ .h \ ur.ttch Jfld .1\ ui•Jl't tnldy a\ po"it:.k h1itonah reprt-<;cnt the ormion of 
\\It \('tnltltflll \l.tq.:.I rt·t h "mot· l'rotfllt/IUI/ lftlll<lgt'l \I.H1r.1 Murph\· .1 mJJOnty of the Ldtturt.d 1\oJrd Cu.nment.trit'\. UI'IOIOm .mJ letter~ are the v1ews 
\{1111'1.\ f·,//(11~ 1 hn' ~tTdJ,·, ( /T'( 11111111111 .\ltlllt/.~('1 H.I\ ln~o:lm ul thnr Juthor' < ulumn 'I'J't·" J\Jd.tbk to all mcrnl:>tr' of the ,umrnuntty, .md I tlllllllllf., I till,,. 1'.1111 '" ( dtlll \ r·acms ll<tlltl,~t·r 1\ru••· l ).ll.ln the frt~ ~xrrt"'>~tun ul vJr)·lllg opmton~ ~.m ~.unpu), through letter), ~~ enwuoged. . I .lrl 1\rtr\\ 11
I l'tlftll'l'.' I t/1(111 I'J,,•bJ ltilf,,,. 1{.1, lid llltllllll
I'.O.Hox Q. :'\lt)trt· ll-.um·, IN 'tb~ {219) .B9-';_~0.~ 
~~·~·--.~•..•..•..•.•..•..•.i-...-ii"l"l"l"&";~-~·-~~.-~-~~ii-;l""iil"iiiiiiiiiii?Eiil'iiliiiiiiiiiiii11fii~~·== ~---------..-··=,···--·-==··---..-..iliii·=·;a·j;·:·;~··fiiiiiiiiiiil._il_i"l·-·;·i'l'"li~l-lil&ll.:~ 



ometimes. When my friends nextSdoor turn their stereo up a little too loud on the night before my ex­am in the one class that up until last Tuesday, I had forgotten to attend. 
Sometimes. When someone con­fronts me with a sales pitch for a raffle ticket and tells me that my con­tribution will go to funding an al­ternative food program for the poor children in town. 

TariBrown 
features 
Sometimes. When I find myself too busy to go for a walk with my 
I best friend or share a pizza and soda
I just so we can talk, even though neit­her of us has the time hut both desperately need to find the time.
1 
: Sometimes. When a silent rapping echoes in my head because I have neglt:cted my best friend, my teac­her, my Lord and my one true and eternal love. Sometime~. When morning hours hegin to meld with the eveningones and time becomes a continuum that 
j appears to have no end yet my eyes i hleedingly plead to rest. Sometimes. Sometimes. f Sometimes, not ever often enough. 
Sometimes I forget. "Thank you's" seldomly come to my lips; "I love you's" with less frequency. I get caught up in the twisting and tur­ning of the world and its universe that I forget that there are people otnd gods that need to be thanked and loved. Pushed aside, I let them 
alone hoping that someone else will t1nd the time to do what I have yet to Llo. 
Usually, I remember. I put out my hand for the grasp ofanother and I reach out for a lonely figure shrouded in sorrow or confusion. Usually, I am willing to extend beyond myself. Usually. 
Then the day comes when I stop everything in me that thanks and loves. I have no time for anyone or anything, not even me. Selfishly, I begin to justdo things, assignments for professors, personal pet projects, anything so that I need not extend myself to any point ofunsafety. And then it happens. 
~ogt time... 
'"f'1he evening air was still thick 
~with the heat ofthe summer af-· ternoon. With the heat lingered smells offreshly cut lawns and roses 
in full bloom, smellsTom could well recall from years past when he lived in this small, Southern towrl. As he drove near the entrance to an old 
David Sarphie 


features 
park, his open windows caught the scent ofa particularly fragrant lilac patch. Itwas a scent heknew so well from his high school days, for that same lilac patch and that same old park had meant much to his life back then. 
It was here that he and the guys used to go to drink shots of)ack Daniels, get high and shoot bottle rockets at young couples who had . come to the park for other reasons. 
"-Now, as t.e drove past the old park, 

The mirror that I had stored away 
I have forgotten. One of my mother's favorite ex­for any future reference is found, The mirror still stands before me. 
pressions is the motto of her dusty and scratched, in the attic of I can see through it, to its holder. high school graduating class: my mind and heart, and hung again The eyes whisper something. I can­"Forwards ever, backwards never." 
in the darkened halls of myself not hear. In an effort to move for­That is the reason she has avoided Someone adjusts that mirror and I ward to try to pick up some ofhis high school reunions for so many am forced to see who I am and who I words, I stumble and fall. I pick years. I always wondered why she 
have become. Suddenly the mirror myselfup and try again. Carefully, wasn't eager to return. becomes transparent and I see only forward l move. Through the glass, the person before me. If I reached without breaking it, my hand out to touch the vacant space, I 
Mary Agnes Carey
reaches his and I hear. 

would find that the mirror remained 
I have remembered ... yet I could easily put my hand 
Love? 

through the reflecting glass and see I am loved? 
many good things. features
I am loved. 

A pair ofeyes capture mine and 
I have remembered how it feels to remind me. I have forgotten 
be loved. 

about ... people, things, God, love, Leaving Saint Mary's College is a 
Now Iam ready to remember how 
"thank you's" ... I have forgotten in goal I've worked towards and am
to love others. 

my rush to ... do what? excited to approach, yet going
Remembering, I find those people
I have forgotten. "backwards never" is not in my 
who mean anything to me and I 

Occasionally, I get the oppor­plans. Some of the deepest
thank them because I have remem­

tunity to thank those people who friend~hips I've ever made are here,
bered. I love them. I really do. I love 
have made my life something more established with both students and
them. ' than just a living. I try to return the professors. In a community many kindness that I often probably did ~ometunes, I remember. And dispute is not a part of the real not deserve; I try to be gracious with when Ido, it is not otten enough hut world, I have learned more about a grand dose ofsincerity. I work it is important enough that when 1 myself. others am! life itself than I myself into the attitude that I want remember Ido thank them and try knew four years ago. That to thank them. I really Uo. but even to tell them how much I do love knowledge could have-been ac-· then. rhem. quired outside of this environment, 
CVolliotiotm ott a theWte 
.................................... 
Sometimes, not often enough, we reflect upon the good things; 
o 

and those thoughts always center : around those we love. And I think about those people who mean so much to me, andfor so manyyears have made : me so l'e1J' happy; 0 AndI count the times I hm1e for­gotten to say, "Thank you," andjust how much /love them. 
lyrics: Felice Mancini : 

ob ··9 Qove you 
but l did not choose that. Instead [/ happily chose Saint Mary's, four years ofconcentration in areas in which I'll probably not receive an­other chance to study. The·''good things" have been abundal1t in' my life. I am fortunate tohave been blessed with loving parents, family and friends. But the bad times, the times one wants to erase from memory, have been there, too. Times ofdeep pain, confusion and soul (not heart) ache. Times l won­dered where I would go, who I would be; disillusionment with myselfand others. 
But the "good things," the things that make me happy, usually override the bad. What's most ironic 
· is that those who make the best in life happen for me are those I forget to thank the most. Hostilities and an­ger~ are often released on those closest -a roommate. a close friend, a family member -instead of on those who cau~ed the frustration. 
· Seniors aren't the onlv ones guilty of thio.;, either. :\lost pel>plc at snme time are unfair to the ones they love the most, tho~e who work the hard­est for their happiness. 
As I leave Saint \1ary·s. um:l'rtain ofwhat will happen in the years to come, I want to take the time ro assess the blessings of my life, to reflect. ro think and to wonder why I haven't done it long before now. It's true that "life is what you make it" but I want to make it the heM for myselfand others. too. It can be ac­complished, perhaps not easily, by taking the initiative. reaching out, following one's generosity rather than pride and working tor the best life has to otfer. 
My mother tinally attended a high school reunion last month. Maybe she realized that one could go for­ward. perhaps even further than she realized, with a little trip backward -a journey I'm willing to take. Col­lege has been a mixture ofgood and bad times. hut it has been four years of my life that I've valued and will continue to treasure. 
those memories seemed like only 
yesterday. He switched on the car 
radio and heard the opening strains 
ofthe Stones'"(I Can't Get No) Satis­
faction." The song took him back to 
another warm summer evening in 
the same park, way back in 1966. He 
remembered that evening well, sit­
ting on the hood ofhis father's 
Chevy with his girlfriend, Susan. 
They were one ofthose young 
couples who had come to the park 
for other reasons: he, the man full of 
brave optimism and hope and she, 
the woman he knew he would mar­
ry. He remembered hearing that 
same guitar strain just as Susan 
leaned over, gently kissed him and 
told him that her father had been 
transferred to a small town in 
ups(ateNewYork. She would be 
leaving Tom forever." 
He remembered how her stun­
ningwords had rippedintohis heart, 
destroying with one blow an his . 
hopes and plans. But what be 
remembered most was something 
else. He remembered how some· ·thins Inside him had caused him to 
look away, unable to say a word, unable to shed a tear. 

That had been many years ago, and things were different now. Only a week earlier, Tom had received a letter from his father pleading for Tom to come see him. His father had been sufferin&from a liver ailment for almost two years. Although his father's letter had not mentioned 
any serious changes in health, Tom 

wondered whether his father might 
have a particularly pressing need to 
see hisson. 
As he pulled the car into the 

parking lot ofthe small, community 
hospital, Tom cleared these doubts 
from his mind Dad is a strong man, 
he thought to himselfand he won't 
let this disease break his spirit. Tom 
was hardly prepared for what he was 
about to see, Entering his father's 
room, he saw not the strong, witty 

man he had lastseen lyingthere, but 
a weak, fragile man, looking the 
worse for his 65 yoars.. His hair 
seemed much greyer than before 

and his physiqu~. much diminished. 
"Dad?" he half-questioned, half-exclaimed. "Tom," his father whispered in reply. It was then that Tom realized his father had been crying. "Dad, what is it?-Why were you crying?" 

"Son, when I first started coming here for treatment two years ago, I thought I could beat this disease," he said quietly. "But over the past four or five months, I've realized that . 
· despite the efforts ofthe doctors and my own efforts, my body is self­destructing. I guess it's God's will, but it has made me realize how fragile my life really is." 
Tom interrupted his father: "Dad, please don't talk like ..." 
"Listen, Tom," his father con­tinued, almost in a whisper. "This is very important to me. In the past weeks I've been thinkiog about our relationship, you and me." He paused for a heavy sigh, 'rom noticed a tcar'roll down his cheek. "I've been trying to reqall the last timt I told you I loved you. And you know, Ican't remember when it was. · That's why I wrote for you to com~ sec me. I just wanted to tell you I love you while I still have the 
chance." 

Tom turned away and looked out the window toward the hospital's small parking lot. A car passed on the old country road outside, and Tom thought he heard the same Stones' song that he had heard on the way over to the hospital. He again remembered that night sitting on the car with Susan. He again remem­bered how her words had stunned him and how he had been unable to express this pain. 
He again remembered how he had cried himselfto sleep for weeksafter that night, crying not because Susan was leaving, but because he had been unable to tell her how much her leaving really hurt. 
He turned to his father. "Dad," he whispered, shaking. "I love you, too." He felt first one tear roll down his cheek, then another and another. 
He held his father's hand and they cried together. 
The Observer Features Section 
Friday, May 14, 1982 -page 11 
Molarity: ND's paper heroes 
im Mole is graduating. I'm too old to pretend that the place will not seem different. The geography and
~ndmarks will stay the same, but the chemistry at lunch-time will be greatly changed. Each year has a spe­cial way ofbeing kind in the friends it gives us; but this year, at graduation, we lose EVERYMAN. Characters are not interchangeable, even in comic strips; like collec­tors' china, they cannot be replaced. God, in creating the human race, had no trite ideas; nothing repeats itself identically in nature, and art follows nature. Simon is 
great, hut he's only a mouse; and a mouse is not a Mole, 
even ifhe were to become the Rector ofKeenan. The air by the lake willl!le affected by the chemistry ofloss. If you don't think so, ask the ducks. Alphie is more than a token dolphin to them. . -·------..­
Rev. Robert Griffin 
letters to a lonely god 
I identify with Jim Mole; and my dog, Darby O'Gill II, identifies with that model of patient suffering, Jim's sheep, Ashtabula. Jim isn't your jock domer, moving from graduation into a Brooks Brothers suit. The world kicks sand in his face, and he stays good-natured. Even­tually, he may get crushed by the insensitivity ofsys­tems; yet so far, he has maintained grace under pressure to survive the indifference ofthe universe. He doesn't laugh much; others laugh at his predicaments. If he whimpers sometimes, or needs a night light, he keeps it to himself. When you feel reality breaking down at the tips offingers that would touch it with love, it is fun to recognize yourself in the company of this undefeated hero. 
Prefaces to War and Peace mention the reaction of 
the woman who wept when she had finished the novel, 
because she would never again have the pleasure of 
reading that hook for the first time. One feels almost as 
sorry In reading the final strips ofMolarlty, because 
those characters can never surprise us so much again by 
showing us our perplexed selves, nor will our pieties be 
so delicately outraged by the friendly impudence 
shown to the architects ofour universe. 
If1 had the money, I would buy a round ofdrinks at 
the Senior Bar; after the drinks were downed, I would 
ask for a moment ofsilence in honor ofjim Mole, as we 
consider his departure from our campus life. Worlds of 
the Imagination are alway being lost and found, but Molarity is closer than the lost fellowship of Middle Earth. Molarity is an insight into the on-going truth of things a1o it nags at you from the cornerofyour eye. It is the dispatch ofthe correspondent who stormed the beaches with the troops at Anzio. It is Ernie Pyle telling you of Normandy by describing the debris left after the hattie. It is the graffiti scribbled on the barracks walls, saying: Kllroy was here, Father Hesburgh. It is the poem 
written by the soldier in France. It is the sacred Scripture of the subway prophet. It is the truth about houses on Notre Dame-Avenue, where dishes are washed once a week, whether they need it or not. 
finalpicture 
You can say how you feel about comic strip charac­
ters: that Chuck Mason represents some dark side of 
Molinelli's mind or Dion projects some shallowness in 
Mike that refuses to be tragic. But how do you say good· 
bye to acquaintances that you've only met in the 
funnies? 

One thing for sure is, you don't make them promises. 
The friendship is only on paper, and the cheapest kind 
ofpaper, at that. You don't have to encourage them to 
stay young; they will always be young, like marble men 
and maidens, found sportingon Grecian urns. You don't 
have to ask them not to change; none of the great· 
hearted people change that much, anyway. You don't 
have to hint for them to tell you if they have a job; and 
you don't have to linger oved coffee at lunch out, hoping 
one of them will grab the tab. You don't have to fret 
over their marriages, their blood pressure or their loss 
ofthe Catholic faith. You are free ofevery anxiety that 
they will bring you trouble. Ifyou didn't know you 
would miss them so much, you might even forget that 
you took them seriously: insubstantial shadows made 
by ink on paper; idea~ whose time has come; such stuff 
as dreams are made of; actors, fretting and strutting 
their hour upon the stage ofthe mind, hanging behind 
like theatre ghosts, after the players are gone. 
On the other hand, as pen-and-ink drawings, they can 
never ask you to be the priest at their weddings. They'll 
never send postcards from the South of France, saying 
that they wish you were there. They never call you with 
the news: we've gotten pregnant and we'd like a 
christening. They'll never ask for anything you'd like to 
give them, like a sacrament. They'll never tell you how 
much they enjoyed the sermon, for obvious reasons; in 
addition to which, not one of them, if I read correctly, 
ha'i gone to Mass since their sophomore year. 
Some ofmy dearest friends, closer to me than anyone, 
are heroes of the imagination and their dates. 
There is a story about velveteen rabbits that says if 
children love them enough, those rabbits will be made 
real by love. As a child, I hoped that ifl loved Pooh Bear 
enough he would become real. When I grew older, I 
loved Romeo'sjuliet, and she became real for me in the 
ballet. Now,Ilikejim and his friends more than I ever cared for a velveteen rabbit. I light candles for them 
when I go to the Grotto, and my dog Darby lights a 
candle for Ashtabula. 
In the darkness, by the lake, with the moon shining down, I remember the best and most poignant ofhappy endings. "So they went off together. But wherever they go, and whatever happens to them on the way, in that enchanted place on top ofthe Forest, a little boy and his Bear will always be playing." These are the final words 
ofthe stories ofPooh. 
In 1982, Michael Molinelli graduated from Notre Dame. Jim Mole, Dion, Mitch and Cheryl, Brenda, Chuck Mason, Morrison Schwartzer, Alphie, and a sheep named Ashtabula continue to play campus games with the Dean ofStudents. There's no place else you could ever find them; they belong, like Christopher and Pooh, to an enchanted place.)im Mole ranks some· where between the Gipper and the leprechaun among the myths ofNotre Dame. His name never made it to the graduation list, either. 

•f. 1-ui :·, 1 1'0 ·: H ·; '~ i:j.-JoJi' If •• ·,,,, ),o 
~$.. c .-. -....... -, .• 
=' 

Four ~wonderful' years in music and radio 
'It does not seem possible that it has _been alm~st four years since 
this year's average Notre Dame semor was first removed from 
whatever radio stations were popular at home to the wonderful ,. 
world of, for example, "The Rock of Michiana." 
Things have changed a bit since 1978. The aforementioned 
"Rock," WRBR, has gone Adult Contemporary. WNDU-FM, which 
began as an automated A-C station, magically became ll-93 in Oc­
tober 1979 (which is why WRBR is now A-C). WAOR also was 
automated with "album rock," only becoming live in the evening. 
WSND-AM had no format whatsoever; one could turn on AM 64 and 
hear Barry Manilow one hour and the Sex Pistols the next. (Things 
have certainly changed there!) And Q-1 02 was still WWJY, a 
"beautiful music" station. (Some would argue that it still is.) 
Tim "eely 
mustc 

Ofcourse, with all the radio changes there have been many changes in music as well. In 1978, all of the following were true, as hard as it may seem to believe: only East Coast people had ever heard of Bruce Springsteen; "New Wave" was still "punk rock"; and disco wa">king( no one seemed to like it except at dances). Ofcourse, now 
everyone has heard of Bruce, many parties play nothing hut new wave, and disco is now part of rock history. 
Not a lot ofgreat rock or pop has been recorded in the last four years. When the charts are thoroughly dominated by one trend, as they were in 1978-79 with disco (in one week, eight ofthe top 10on Billboard's Hot 100 were disco records), records are so derivative as to become almost useless. Seniors, how many hits do you remem· ber from your freshman year? 
Things changed somewhat by the fall of 1979. Steve Dahl had made national headlines with his anti-disco tirades,.and even had a Hot 100 single ("Do Ya Think I'm Disco"). The new fad was "New Wave" music. This period did give us The Knack, but for the first (and so far only) time, performers like Nick Lowe, Ian Gomm, and Sniff'n' the Tears received AM airplay. But as soon as the new I.Ps hy Fleetwood Mac, the Eagles, and Styx came out, New Wave was relegated back to cult status. The second part of the term was dominated by British acts who had never had really big hits before (Queen, Pink Floyd). Who can forget "Another Brick in the Wall, Part 2"? 
The fall of 1980 brought nothing out ofthe ordinary to popular music. Christopher Cross was probably the most representative of 1980-81's music, as his hits were primarily what The Book ofRock Lists has called "Wimp Rock." Ifanything dominated the charts during junior year, that was it. That is, until John Lennon was killed and REO Speedwagon was nationally discovered. (Midwesterners find it hard to believe that the Numher One hit "Keep On Loving You" was REO's first-ever venture into the national Top 40.) 
And the last nine months? So-called "faceless" bands were the big sellers (Foreigner, REO Speedwagon,journey, Loverboy). Most of these played music virtually in(\istinguishable from each other's ex· cept for the lead voices, and took a great deal ofpride in soundingon stage exactly like they sound in the studio. Olivia Newton-John changed her image and had one ofthe biggest hits in rock history. Finally, as the year turned, for the first time since 1979, some ofthe new music began to get AM-Top 40 airplay. Witness the success of The Go-Go's,Joanjett and the Blackhearts, Huey Lewis and the 
News, The Human League, Tom Tom Club, and Aldo Nova, as ex· am pies, on both the album and the singles charts. And ofcourse, how can 1 forget theJ. Geils Band? Freeze-Frame ha~ been more success­ful than all oftheir prior albums combined (and that goes back to around 1971 )! 
It's been a wonderful four years, hasn't it? 
I doubt I have started any arguments about the music of the last four years in the preceding wrapup.Now I will. After looking back at the past four years in music, I have picked out 16 singles and h~lf as many albums ( 1 could not reduce the singles to any less, believe tt or not) which when rock historians look back at this period, they will consider these rock or pop classics. This list is not all-inclusive by any means, as others could become classics; these are the obvious ones. They are arranged chronologically. Singles: 
"Paradise by the Dashboard Light" by Meat Loaf ( 1978) "Take Me tc the River" by Talking Heads (I978) "Sultans ofSwing" by Dire Straits ( 1979) "Hot Stuff' by Donna Summer ( 1979) "My Sharona" by the Knack (I979) "Driver's Seat" by Sniff'n' the Tears ( 1979) "Cruel to Be Kind" by Nick Lowe ( 1979) "Tusk" by Fleetwood Mac ( I 979) "Refugee" by Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers ( 1979) "Tired ofToein' the Line" by Rocky Burnette ( 1980) "Hungry Heart" by Bruce Springsteen ( 1980) "(Just Like) Starting Over" byJohn Lennon ( 1980) "The Breakup Song" by the Greg Kihn Band (I 981) "Start Me Up" by the Rolling Stones ( 1981 ) "Our Lips Are Sealed" by the Go-Go's ( 1981 ) "Harden My Heart" by Quarterflash ( 1981) 
Albums: Dire Straits ( 1978) Tusk by Fleetwood Mac ( 1979) Damn tbe Torpedoes by Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers ( 1979) London Calling by the Clash ( 1980) Making Movies by Dire Straits ( 1980) Sandinista! by the Clash ( 1980) 
••. ,,., 1. Ta(too,.You,l;!ythe Rolling Stones (.198 .I ) ,.· _,) Tug op~ar-by Raul McCartney (I ?82) 
~~()~S:f:J:,..:=i=e~========~========================Fr=id=a=y,=M=~==I4=,=I9=8=2==p=a=ge=I==2
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
...Lacrosse 
John Paxson will not be wearing No:"23 on his jersey put the game out ofreach. turn the game into a rout. 
next season. The Observer has learned that he will don the No. 4 for  continuedfrom page 16  
A Dennison player hit Simpson in  "When we were down by two," 
his final season at Notre Dame. Paxson, who will serve as captain of  
the 1982-83 Irish, opted to shed the number he has worn the past  After such a successful season for  the face with his stick after the play  said Irish coach Rich O'Leary, "we  
seven years in favor of the number worn by his brother Jim. His  a team that grants no scholarships  was whistled dead. Simpson  could play the tight, aggressive game  
and generally has less experience  retaliated by tossing the ball toward  we're used to. But when we went be­ 
brother, a 1979 Dayton graduate, now plays for the Ponland Trail  
Blazers ofthe National Basketball Association. -The Observer  than its opponents, there is much  him, and, after some argument from both teams, the referee put two Irish  hind by five, we had to take chances." 
hope for the future.  
The key play was a penalty called  in the penalty box. Dennison then  As a result, Dennison scored some  
against Rob Simpson, the Irish  scored twice within 12 seconds to  easy goals in the founh quaner to  

goalie. 
The Observer will accept classrfieds Mon­day through Friday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. However. classifieds to appear in the next rssue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day· prior to insertion. All classrfieds must be prepaid. 
either in person or through the mail. 
Classifieds 
, ·'  Need ride to D.C. as soon as possible al­l NOTICES I(:;::;~i::::-~::n:t~~M:s/8...~; ...-------------'· , later TO WESTCHESTER area; call 1229.Share usual. Wanted to buy--Electric typewriter. CallFREE PUBliCATIONS on chemical, 277-3293.'nuclear war. Research, posters, brochures. Conservative vi-. Quantrties available. 413 E. Caprtol, Washington, 18111 • IMklllnt M JKII.on StM.Prleon DC20003. Md -*! wry much Nke to to cor­rnponct with othenl from the outlll*ii:.\.Fif..i···uii··:ra··ssoo..O'Fi..Moiie..ii;\cii world. ,_• good writer •net •n excel­YEAR BEGINNING SEPTEMBER FOR lent llltlet. Pte-edd,..• •II cor­'t-3 YEARS. SET YOUR OWN HOURS. rwpo~to: MONTHLY PAYMENT FOR PLACING Antoinne Evans No. 138870 POSTERS ON CAMPUS. BONUS P.O.BoxE BASED ON RESULTS. PRIZES AWARDED AS WEll. 800-526-0883. ~~-~~;~;~:P..nta-the~l Thanks to allot you from all of us. dante. r11 en-ell lett-·u quickly H poulble. Write­.......Ill Robeft Ectw8rd Strozier 131-502 Going to Omaha. Room available In truck. Southern Ohio Comctlon•l Fllj:lllty Share expenses. 287~9. P.O. Box-4581111 lucMvllle, Ohio ~1 .\~~~T~~~~~J· JL-._FO_Rs_A_LE_____.I Found: Gold earring by Stepan &-Bell couns. Call 2n-o884 for appintment. If It USED i OUT-PRINT BOOKS bought, fits the hole in your ear, ~·a yours. sold, searched. ERASMUS BOOKS. Tues-Sunday, 12-6. 1027E. Wayne(One lost Dunlop Max-IIi pitching wedge on block south of Eddy-Jefferson intersec­wed 4n1 on or near 7th ~ Wfound' tion.) pie-call vince at 272-7845 .................................. USED BOOK SHOP. HOURS WED., LQST;·~-~~·~~·gy;·~·.··BE SAT. SUN. 9-7. CASPERSON 1303 SERIOUS! I can fit both my -in youtr BUCHANAN RD., NILES. SIZE ELEVEN "sneakers". We took the wrong shoes 8t the TWISTER GAME at CELLO FOR SALE. CALL 234-9974 RECESS. Pte-cell-85110----­Excellent condition. TEAC tape deck A­L.OST~iNTERMEDiAT·e···AccoUNTiNG 401 (} SL. Dust cover. 20 BASF tapes. BOOK TAKEN FROM S. DINING HALL, Head demagnitizer and ail packing. $190. TUES. DINER MONEY OFFERED FOR 883-3526. ITS RETURN CAll PAUL3207 SURPLUS JEEPS $65, CARS $89, lost White jecketln Aanner's peny room TRUCK $100. Similar bargains available. 4123182. If you piclced nup by mistake, Cali lor your directory on how to pur­pte-call Jim at 1067. chase 602-998-0575. Ext. 3648. Cali .L.QiT;............IPNii8H.......iiOOK: refundable. DUBIOUSLY ENTITLED HABLA Excellent condition TEAC tape deck. A-ESPANOl? IF YOU FOUND IT OR INAD­4010 Sl-dust cover. 20 BASF tapes. VERTENTLY PICKED IT UP ON WED­Head demagnitizer. Ail packing. $190. NESDAY, APRIL 28TH, PLEASE CALL 683-3526. KIM AT 321G--YOU CAN'T POSSIBLY WANTITTHATBADI NO autographed football. 1972 season. $95. 233-6254. Generous reward for return of Nikon field glass. lost in stadium during Blue-Gold game 511. Call collect 312-366-8544. I TICKETS I :~--------------~ DESPEAATEL Y NEED 2 GRAD. TIXIFOR RENT CALL BOB 277"1117. DESPERATELY NEED GRAD TIX. LET PATRICK SEE DADDY GRADUATE. For Rent: Student Housing-rated PLEASE CAll CHRIS 277-4207 super;o'f-summer aild/or fall. Clean, !late,  OBSERVERITES: As you venture off into the real world, take with you ail that is good. There will be many of us here to carry on. Remember that, and take advantage of our hospitality. OATY: You did rt ail-wHh style and panache. Alben's, Comiskey, Ann Arbor, et al. QUARD: You've made two wise decisions -leaving lenny and finding Vicki. Ap­plause. May your Hem atways fill the re­quired inches. OTHERS: We promise to do our best to continue that which you have so ably begun. Forgive us if we falter. TO THOSE WHO REMAIN: Enjoy the summer. Think of we unfor­tunate souls who must yet endure South Bend. SKIP MJM Gofo<ltl All my love, MMB ........................................................ ~ MOOOOOOOOOOOO: Whenever I thought I was going insane, I just looked at you and felt better. You were one hell of a roomie. Best olluck with the McGinn one. Thanks for evenhing ­peep thing dol Me Di/Tom: Best wishes and eternal happiness. look me up in the capital. on NASIATKA: It's been a while. Golf cans, the ocean and rts silent gulls, Gino·s East, a ride home from Hammond, getting sick at St. Joe's, watching planes at the Dunes, a mountain stream and a can of Heineken, hackmatack, tamarack, eastern larch, softball, the rust Oids. Fen­way, what's happenin'?, seals, bad dumb chink, Stones. lailgaters, Bill lee. duck Hushing, McCabe's pillOw, the Grinch, the Bird, Bronco's, Preservation Hail, peas, cheese and spit, Michelsen and bumper pool, Jacques Cousteau, Cubbies, the founh flOor shrine, White Flight, beers with Digger, can I have an extra dollar lor gas?, Elton John, Great America, Castle Point, banging pipes, Jenny, Jenny, Wild Bill Dempsey, Karen and her Christmas dress, Lefty on the toll road, steamed clams, Mr. Mylon, wanna eat?, AI Brous­sard, Alben's grandfather, WSND pany at the SMC Clubhouse, The Lever's funeral, Quincy Market, Krls Robbins, 1 Bpoints ­big deal -he took 38 shots, let's call Rome, dancin' in the streets of Hyannis, mountains with style, I tell you Tom-my leets too big. Yeah, It's been a while. And rt'll be a while more. SKIP Roundy, Shorty, Grail and Steve: I can't tell you what your sharing this • weekend with me means. I know others would be here if they could, but thanks to you especially. This is itl  CONGRATULATIONS NurM Rooney­• You've finally made itl! Thanks for al­ways being there and making my freshman year a mega wild one. ND-SMC will never be the same w/o your I'll miss you these next three years-You've been the BESTI-love, Mish. MikeM: congratulations, you senior! the freshman ps. I'll miss your abuse Ill Marybeth Briinnan-May you be as popular in the real world as you were here. Best of luck in whatever you do. I'll miss you next year, anerali, who will I skate with? Love, Monica Ony: I finally got around to typing out a goodbye. Many here will miss you, but none as much as I will. I will miss' your guidance, your expenise and your help­ing hand. I admit I did not like your hard­??? ways at first, but I k~ there was a soft spot there somewhere (besides the one around the belly). Stay happy, heanhy, and come back to visit early and often. And, of course, the phone Unes are always open. Take care ­you are a true friend. Chris Cheryl: Thanks lor ali your help, dedication, backrubs and kisses under the mistletoe that have made my job much easier. You will be missed. Take care of yourself, and I'll see ya in Iowa on lhe 4th of July. Chris leuraa.by, I'll be seeing you, in ali the old familiar places before you can whistle Dixie, say Rumpetstilskin 'til you throw up, and before we both are sent to the place where rubber is in enormous quantity. Don't fret--It'll be a Memorious occasion! Gregory SUZANNE, YOUR FRIENOSHIP DURING THE PAST FEW MONTHS HAS BEEN QUITE ENJOYABLE AND INTERESTING. IT IS THE MOST FUN I HAVE EVER HAD CORRUPTIHO ANYONE. MAY GOOD­Will BE WITH All SUMMER AND Al· WAYS. love cheryl PS.SEE YOU IN OUR TRIPLEIII ORTI, YOU HAVE BEEN SUCH A NEAT PERSON TO WORK FOR AND WITH THE LAST 2 YEARS. I AM GOING TO MISS YOU VERY MUCH. BUT AT LEAST I HAVE THE PIX TO REMEMBER YOU BY. TAKE CARE AND GOOD LUCK AND MAYBE WE'LL MEET AGAIN SOMEDAY IN A BATHTUB. UNTIL THEN.. I LOVE YOU. CHERYL RACHEL, IT WAS CERTAINLY AN INTEREST· lNG AND UNFORGETTABLE YEAil  HELLO GOODBYE Cochabamba... h's a small world alter ali. We'll keep In touch. No one can sayo "forewr" because no one kim& "'" Mure. See you soon! "Don't listen to me I'm justa..." KAREN MIEDLAR: You've been the greatest, always. Thanks for being there . when I needed you. / Love, MAC PUDGE­SIXTY. Yeah way did we do Smokey wrth­out the tape, get the Bull going, drink ali the rent, call the Gipper at 5 a.m. (three times) and live in a stable. Thanks for everything and best of luck. I hope your choice to work for one of the Chosen People works out lor the best And, remember, in the immortal words of Levi Stubbs: Reach Out (I'll Be There). Dirt P.S. -Saturday, May 15, 1982 -Al­ben's. Midnight until they carry us outl TO LISA TROZOLLO, CAROLE CLARK, MAUREEN MOORE, AND LESUE LEMAY: WE MISSED YOU AU IN DOMERLAND THIS YEAR WHILE YOU WERE OUT GETnNG CULTURED! NEXT YEAR, ITS REUNION TIME! STAY TUNE.D FOR THE ADVENTURES OF THE FOURTH FLOOR l YONITES IN DOMERLANDI CONNIE, LAURIE, AND I PICKED SOME AWESOME ROOMS AND WE'RE GONNA HAVE SOME AWESOME TIMES. ARST THREE WEEK&-lET'S CATCH UP ON A UTTlE CORBY-lNG, EH? TAKE CARE OF YOURSELVES AND KEEP AN EYE OUT (maybe • KOplng eye?) FOR THOSE FRENCHMEN AND MEXICANO&-AND BE READY FOR All THOSE HUNGRY DOMER MEN (that rMena "'halt 01 Morrl...y lor you, U..)l ITS TA-TA TO THE EIFFEL TOWER, L'ARC DE TRIUMPH, AND THE RIVIERA-AND HEllO TO QUAR· TERS, lEFT-lEFT SCOPE SIDE, AND BLUE ICE CREAMII! ITS THE SEVEN MUSKATEER5-BAC::K TOGETHER AGAIN AND LOVING ITI ITS REIILL Y GREAT TO BE A DOMER AGAIN I AU REVOIR AND ADIOS! p.L flu, c.ole, end mo-1'11 -you •II In t london, I hopei jullt think-the lOur terrora 01 eouth quad will -n be together In europe. 11'8 gonne be the hottellt thing alnce HITLER I Ill p.e.•. do you lind thle to be • long par­--'•nd-obnoxlou•? p.La.Lgoodl p.L8.LL c'ellt flrlllll (lt'ellnlehed) p.LLLLL IICiuefly It WU •lmoat llnlehed until I reeflad th8tl8811e lain Mexico, no1 France, eo I'll have to apologia for no1 kn-lng how to eey lt'allnlehed In eepenoll p.L8.8.LLLin-you didn't llgu,.lt out-thla one'• from DIANEIII (the born-again dorner) i.i'ii<E·:..:rt,·~·-~~~~~~~i·· ~i;;;~;;;;,~··;;,~;  I'm the only sane person up here. The world needs lillie blrde. ................................................................ Why all the antagonism? We're all .uppoad to be on the same side. Margaret: I'M the only sane person up here . . . I don't tickle you even though you're vermy tickhsh-oops, no one was s'posed to know that Have a summer ­you deserve rtt rove, Tim TO THE INTREPID CAMPERS: Rob, Scott, John, Phil, J.K. -It don't get no better than this. Thanks for an awesome !rip. SKIP Turtle; Thenke for everything during thl8 --.r. Uke ell good thlnga, our long night telka end •haNd ot11o11 tun n-enda. But, I look forward to hearing !rom you thla •ummer end Melng you In our triple next flofllll Take cere end may lite give you ell you deMrve. Oni, Good luck in D.C., they don't realize how lucky they are to have you working lor them. I'll miss you. love Suzanne To my two best friends (and roommates!!) atND: KIM •net JEAN, Congratuiationslll You finally made it! Best of luck in Ariz. and N.Y.C., I'm gonna miss you both next year!! Love Always, Too Much Happy Graduation and Best Wishes to future lawyers: Tim Abeska, Bruca Baty, Dick Goehler, Greg Imhoff, Frank Jutian, Greg Kruzel, Tim Nickels. Paul Mattiani, Perry Vieth, and Brian Waliser. You will be missed by all those who kn­and abused you. The Super Bowl iivesllll HEY ON CAMPUS SENIORS!!!! YES, YOU! Don't forget to ask lor your room deposit back, OR YOU'LL NEVER SEE IT AGAIN. A million dreams. a milbon scars.. SKIP, IT'S BEEN REAL! CHERYL RICHARO, YOU HAVE BEEN ONE OF THE MOST SPECIAL PEOPLE TO ME IN THE LAST THREE YEARS AND I Will MISS YOU MORE THAN ANYONE.  
laundry, utilrties, $100/mo total. 291: 1405 House lor rent summer only, erose to campus, excellent condrtiorl. 287-5361·: 3 houses for rent--all on same block. 5 bdrm-$450, 6 bdrm-$540 per mo. Cali 2n-3461 or 272-9299. ............................... 5 ROOMS FURNISHED AT $125 PER PERSON WITH UTILITIES PAID. HOME AWAY FROM HOME. NEWLY DECORATED WITH PANELLING AND NEW CARPETING IN EVERY ROOM. ALL SHARE HUGE LIVING ROOM WI"(H FIREPLACE. KITCHEN WITH CARPET­ING AND APPLIANCES AND All UTEN­SILS. TWO BATHROOMS WITH SHOWER AND BATH. DOUBLE GARAGE AND GOOD PARKING FACILITIES. CAll 233-2245 OR 282­1664. WANTED PART-TIME TUTORS for Educational Center lo teach classes of students preparing lor LSAT or MCAT. Requires high GPA, teaching experience a plus. Desire law student for LSAT, medical or  I PERSONALS I BtU. KATZENBERGER--I hope you get as much chocolate chip ice cream as you can eat throughOUt your life. Take care you little pudge. IKE VIC TAYBACK for SENIOR FELLOW What a lOng, strange trip it's been .. MMB...This is nl I'm out in the real world! Does that mean I'm longer a kept man? lOve MJM Mr. 8nd MrL Ko.kh;;*i·=·y~~-~ been my joy •net etrength for live long yeere. I could epend my Ute trying to repay you (tnt-at retee •re that hlglll). You h8ve my unending devo­tion •net love. Thank you. P•ul. ROB: nail began with Pizza in Michigan. Was that really lour years ago? Since then it's been K.C., The Bottom Ten, Bookstore, The Palmer House, SponSunday, McGuire and Packer, almost a blimp, dans on Thursday nights, counside lor  SKIP: ~ you hedn 't decided to go lor your masters, you'd regret it, maybe not today, maybenottomorrow, but soon and for the rest of your life. (I've been waiting my whole hie to write that I) Oh well, this is it baby. So long (TWSS) I But seriously folks, the less we worked together, the more I realized what a friend you are. I'm sure our paths will cross again and often. We're both gonna make it in this business. Keep in touch and good luck. ORTI DZAVE: No way, TWSS and all that good din. It's been ail my pleasure working with you. Good luck. OATI CHERYL: Bathtubs and ail that good dirt! Good Luck. ORTI Hartz, Fisher Jo and Stevie: I hope we'll do a better job of keeping in touch in the future than we did this year. You were the best roommates an insuf­ferable turkey like me could have asked lor. Best tonunes along your your respective paths. ons  YOU HELPED MAKE UFE AT THE OB­SERVER MUCH FUN. THANKS FOR BEING A FRIEND. GOOD LUCK NEXT YEAR. I Will BE BACK TO VISIT AND PARTY. CAMPUS VIEW IN 13-14??? TAKE CARE. lOve cheryl PS.-SEE YOU FOR THE A REWORKS !II BRUCE, YOU ARE ONE OF THE MOST UNIQUE PEOPLE I HAVE EVER HAD THE PLEASURE TO HAVE TO WORK WITH. I WILL MISS YOU AND YOUR UN­PAEDICTABILITY.LET'S GO BOWLING WHEN I COME BACK TO VISIT. TAKE CARE OF WOULD HE. GOOD LUCK WITH YOUR FUTURE ROOMMATES. HOPE TO SEE YOU FOR THE FIREWORKS IN IOWA. love cheryl DAVID, YOU ARE SUCH A SWEET PERSON. YOU REAllY DON'T DESERVE THE ABUSE YOU GET (SOMETIMES) BUT I WILL BE BACK NEXT YEAR TO GIVE YOU MORE ANYWAY. YOU Will Al­WAYS HAVE A SP2CIAL PLACE IN MY HEART AND IN MY ROOM (CALCOON). TAKE CARE AND STAY IN TOUCH. LOVE CHERYL  pervades this circus is a real canoon. (P.S. The paint is icky.) RYAN: Have you ever been friendly wrth sheep? I'm ap­palled. Any mail from Franklin lately? KELLI: It's not exectly peach, is it? BRUCE: Would you stili trade ali the rest lor me? See you in Eikhen. TOM: Thanks lor the moral suppon during compugrap­hics. DIANE, TARI, PAUL, JOE, MONICA, MICHAEL, DAVE and assoned individuals who will never see this per­sonal: Thanks lor making me feel welCome and for giving a freshman (a su­perior freshman, but admittedly a fresh­man) a chance. See you in August The so-called SMC Autocrat Mary Agnes. I guess rm on my own now. I remember everything you told me. I may not be able to live up to your image around here, but I'll try to maintain the standards. Cali me when your Pulitzer comes through. Gratefully, Your Protegee MAC, We'll make her forget some of what you told her. The System Thos place is messy. We're ali going to die.  THANKS FOR BEING SUCH A DEAR FRIEND. I LOVE YOU ALWAYS. Cheryl RUDY (BOTH OF THEM) YOU NEVER COLLECTED ON YOUR BACKRUB. IT Will COST YOU ONCE MY HANDS ARE LICENSED. ONLY KID­DING. IT WILL ALWAYS BE FREE FOR YOU AND NO CHARGE FA THE OIL EITHER. TAKE CARE AND GOOD LUCK IN LIFE. LOVE CHERYL MONK, I'M GETIING TIRED OF WAITING FOR YOU TO FIRE ME. SO I QUIT!!! CHERYL GOOD LUCK to the seniors in lour-west Keenan. Jim Brown, get tough because we want to see you on the Kings. Odd quad I, we'll try to forget your hollywood gala. Odd quad II, good luck in Miami. Houston, California. or wherever you decode to go. Finally, Waz. we thank you tor being a cool RA. Drop by next year so we can abuse your hair some more. Good night and God bless. The System Pagnucco: I have yet to see the picture of our friend gettong "caked.'' You have 48 hours. Best  
graduate or PhD student in science area for MCAT. Classes begin in June, con­tinued employment possible throughout year. CaH 232-2366. ROOMMATE WANTED: Clean 2  the Bulls, New Year's Eve burlesque. Mil­waukee, "Excellent food, Poor service, .. Thanksgiving's touch football (I was, of course, awesome), Albert's, a six of crul­lers, the waving wheat, garlic bread, the fencing gym, Rocco's, and so much more.  CC: Take care of CC. Pudge Boo-Boo: 'Tis better to have loved and  NEEDLESS, I Will MISS ABUSING YOU ON ROADTRIPS AND OTHERWISE TAKE CARE AND ENJOY NEXT YEAR. LOVE CHERYL  Ryan, Thanks for another tun-filled semester. I'll never forget the 80 page paper you O.K.'d lor Skip, the kidnapping and sub­sequent pany, (that includes the tanning butter and peanut butter) and ali the other  to you and Ouard forever. Ono Mary Agnes: Don't worry. you II be OK. Boo-Boo  
bedroom home. Good area, nice yard. Furnished except lor bedroom. Call 234­1661 days or 234-9970 evnings. Ask lor Colleen.  Come to think of rt, I guess it has been four years. Here's to many more. SKIP  • lOst than not to have loved at ali..  Love. Yogi.  WHY IS EVERYONE SO WIEAD? Where is the best place to learn ABC's.  your  heinous things you've done. Have a good summer. See you In the fall when I'll have an-supply of sweaters. love, Monica  Skip---­Well, it's a miracle. but you did it! Con­gratulatoons!l Good luck in grad school-­Drop me a hne. Have a good summer. -­ 
Love, M  


---,.--------~~ 
The Observer-Sports Friday, May 14, 1982 -page 13 
The highlights and low points oi 1981-82 
Notre: Dame's Cla'>s of 1982 began its sports odyssey In the: swc:ltc:rlng heat ofSeptember, I978. On .a sti€ky Saturday afternoon It witnessed a harbinger of the frustration to follow when the Missouri Tigers upset the Irish, 3-0 in Notre: Dame Stadium. 
Unfortunately, the class went out on an even worse note, as the Irish football and basketball teams sufferred through their worst seasons in 19 and 10 years, respectively. 
This list of the top sports stories of the I98I-82 academic year will necessarily bring to mind more bad times than good. As with any year in sports here, however, there were high points, as you may remem­ber. ( 
The stories are presented chronologically, in an ef­fort to make the list somewhat less subjective. 
Irish Top the Polls -Tuesday, September 1 5 
After an emotion-packed win over LSU in Coach Gerry Faust's debut, the nation's sportswriters and coaches tapped the Irish as the nation's No. 1 team in each oftheir polls. Michigan had been upset on opening day by Wisconsin, and second-ranked Oklahoma had struggled with Wyoming. So Notre Dame, 'Which had opened the season in the No. 3 spot, moved up. The glory wa'> short-lived, however, as the Wolverines c~e back the: following week to knock the Irish out of the top spot with a 25-7 thrashing on national telc:vision. 
SoccerComesofAge -Wednesday, September 16 
A stunning upset of national soccer power St. Louis on Sunday afternoon, and a perfect record lifted Coach Rich Hunter's Irish soccer team into the No. 19 spot in the: national rankings. The 4-3 double overtime thriller with the Billikc:ns put Notre Dame: soccer on the map. The win marked the first time In history that the school's soccer team was included in the national ranklngs. "It's been five years of hard work and 
sacrifice," Hunter said. But everyone involved with the growing program admitted it was worth the wait. 
Faust Under Fire -Wednesday, September 30 
The nation's media, after boosting Faust to the rank of superstar, fell over each other in their rush to find an an!>wer to Notre Dame's football woes. The criticism of Irish football broke into the headlines with columns in The Observer which took Faust and the players to task for the dismal showings against Michigan and Purdue. Players admitted to a lack of intensity, and Faust decided to revamp his complex offense. But it wa~ to no avail. 
The Miami Massacre -Friday, November 27 
It was the culmination ofa season ofnightmares. The Irish could do nothing right, and the Hurricanes, ranked sixth in one: poll, but unable to go to a bowl game be­cause: of NCAA probation, took out all their frustrations on Notre Dame. The special teams accounted for all the Irish points in a 37-1 5 fiasco beamed to millions of Thanksgiving Friday television viewers. But the game wa~ not as close as the score indicated, and coaches and players alike expressed thanks that the 5-6 season was, 
mercifully, over. 
A Great Lakes Win-Wednesday, December 30 
Before the biggest crowd In the history of college hockey, Notre Dame upset Michigan Tech, 4-3, and walked off with the championship of one of hockey's biggest events. A national television audience saw the Irish tum an entire season around by pounding Michi­gan In the semifinals, 6-2, before taking the Great Lakes Invitational Championship at Detroit'sJoe Louis Arena The surprise win gave Notre Dame momentum that eventually carried the Irish to the finals of the CCHA playoffs. 

Disastet on the Road-Tuesday,January I2 
Digger Phelps's basketball team knew it was in for a long season after early losses to the likes ofMurray State and Northern lllinois. Those losses came in the ACC, and the Irish found that things were no easier on the road. When the team finally returned home after the semester break, it brough with it a 2-9 record. Heartbreaking losses to Kentucky and San Francisco were more than outweighed by blowouts at the hands of Missouri and Virginia. 
The road trip was characteristic ofa long season with few highlights. Upsets of Idaho, San Francisco and Maryland turned some heads, but Notre Dame ended the season with a less-than-mediocre I O·I 7 record. 
leers Take CCHA By Storm -Sunday, March 14 
Notre Dame topped powerful Bowling Green for the right to advance to the CCHA finals, andsttll ended up a double loser. The Irish drive for the top fell one game short, as Michigan State won the championship game, 4-I. The real loss came when the NCAA tournament selection committee chose Bowling Green to represent the conference -along with the Spartans -in the playoffs for the national championship. The selection came despite Notre Dame's 8-5 win over the Falcons in the CCHA semifinals. BGSU lost in the first round ofthe championships. 
Digger Steals the Show -Thursday, March 25 
The nation's basketball writers gathered in New Or­leans for the Final Four, and were scrambling for a new and different angle for a story. Digger Phelps proved to be the angle. Gordon White of the New York Times did a piece on Phelps's allegations in regards to cheating in college basketball. The story went page one in the Times. Phelps's charges stirred a national controversy, despite the fact that his allegations originally appeared in a story in The Observer on October I, 1981. The stories led to charges and revelations from coaches across the country in what one sports writer referred to 
as "cheater fever." 
Under the Lights -Thursday, April I5 
In a startling move obviously designed to appease the ABC television network, the University announced that the 1982 football season opener against Michigan would be played at night. The network arranged to have temporary lights constructed in Notre Dame Stadium for the prime-time extravaganza. Details ofthe logistical problems that will inevitably arise have yet to be worked out, and already there are rumblings from many 
sources as to the problems that will be encountered. One thing is certain, the game will be the first night contest in the history of the stadium. 
Bookstore's Second Decade -Sunday, April 25 
Stellar performances by Tony Hunter and Gregg Wil­
liamson led Full House to an upset win over Eddie 
O'Rourke and the Travelling Stragglers -a team made 
up ofbasketball talent the likes ofMarc Kelly, Jim Baron 
and Tim Koegel. The eleventh edition of the tourna­
ment featured many other memorable moments as 
well. The opening round was played partially in a blind­
ing blizzard, a record 453 teams participated, and the 
tournament's Commissioner Emeritus, Rob Simari, 
smashed a six-year-old record by scoring 18 points in 
one game. 

~-~-G--R-E_A_T--W-~A:e;_l_Ll~;~R;T~~~~-1 
t~_.... . · . SENIORS! ' 
'iff 
Chinese & American Restaurant t $S 'ftf h t
·1 , gt oreverysen1orw o , 1 ~ COCkta~. l~unge CarryoutAuoilo~~W ' comes to dlnne1during May.,.'6 t Happy Hour 5.00-7.00 pm Mon.-Sat. t -----,ft Ba"qu~r rooms auailable, B•'"quer S group rates auailable ~ F• t 
t Best Chinese SAm~rican Food i!' Towntc'Ci~ese &American t t *Reasonably Pr.ced SHosprtable t Cuisine in a traditional t 
t FEATURIN_G.: . 
tt  .PRAWN WITH CHILl SAUCE .~EAFOOD DELIGHT  
._  
t  eGREAT WALL CHICKEN (DUCK)  
:  esUCED BEEF WITH BROCCOLI  
'  eswEET & SOUR PORK  
'  eEGG FOO YOUNG  
t  erHOP SUEY CHOW MEIN  

L_!~~~R~~~~~y~~!l!~ 
L~m~S£.h.!'!:. ..___-f 
HOURS:  t  
Mon.-Thurs.: 11:30o.m.-10:00p.m. Fri.&Sot ........11:30o.m.-11:00p.m.  t  
4  9  -~ 
sun ..............  -p.m.  
•  •  I  

130DixieHWY.South 
t=-· t 

~:~~~:.~;d l...-t 
nexttoRandau'slnn 
'= t 

____p}~7!l6....J 

Gerry Fausfs first season at the helm of the Irish football team was a disappointing and frnstrattng one. The team's 5-6 record 
..
dominated the year's top sports stories. (Photo by Cheryl Ertelt) 
There were many other sports stories this past year. Notre Dame established an athletic endowment fund to help defray the cost of running a top-notch athlctlc department. Mark McMahon became the first Notre Dame tennis player In a decade to qualify for the NCAA tournament. Dean of Students James Roemer and Athletic Director Gene Corrigan reinstated the University's rugby club. For­mer Irish star Joe Montana led his San Francisco '49ers to a Super Bowl win. Kelly Tripucka went from the ACC to the Silverdome, and picked up NBA rookie honors along the way. Mary DiStanislao brought the women's basketball team one step closer to the top, and was nominated for the Coach of the Year award. Notre Dame ad­
mitted that rivalries with schools such as USC and UCLA could be jeopardized by cheating scandals, and hinted that offending schools would be dropped from Irish schedules. A former wrestler brought suit against the University for taking away his scholarship. 
All ofthese stories combined to make up a year that was, if nothing else, unique. 
Pick up and delivery service 


I t 
Saint Xavier College 
CHICAGO 
More than 100 courses available in 28 fields ofstudy, including art, business, criminal justice, education, English, history, mass communications ,physical sciences, political ... 
ience,psychology, sociology••••• 
For a brochure, write or call 

Sain' Xavier Colle.. 3700 West 103rd Street Chicago, Dlinois 60655 
(312) 779-3_300 
..,. 

,..,.,--­
------------------------------------------------------------------------~ --------------------------------­
The Observer -Sports Friday, May 14, 1982 -page 14 
._.. 
Messagefrom Keith 
Overfour years 
Seniors ranksports moments 
This year's senior class experienced some great mo­ments in Notre Dame sports, and some depressing ones. Brion Reimer As the time comes to remember our four years here, I 
Sports Writer 
am presenting a list ofthe best -and worst -five Irish athletic events of the last four years. l conducted a poll of 20 ~eniors, and here are the results, beginning with the top five. 
1) Notre Dame 29, Michigan 27 -Harry Oliver had never kicked a field goal over 36 yards. To make tied, 3-3, and the Bulldogs were kicking off. It was a
-
matters worse, the wind was blowing in ·his face: It' tough kick to handle and neither deep man was sure looked as ifa desparate Irish rally had fallen too short. who should pick it up. As a result Georgia had a first­Who could ever forget Oliver's 51-yard attempt sailing and-goal at the one. The score soon was 10-3, Georgia towards the goalposts, as the wind died? Who could After a Notre Dame fumble at the Irish 24-yard line, the ever forget the delirium starting from the stands in the Bulldogs "drove" in for another score. This Sugar Bowl end zone and spreading around the stadium as the saw Notre Dame completely dominate the national referee raised his hands, and Irish players and fans champions, but somehow manage to lose as critical stormed the field in celebration? As noted in the 1981 mistakes ended numerous Irish drives. Dome, it was a miraculous moment: "Michigan 27, 2) Brigham Young 51, Notre Dame 50 --' There
1 
Notre Dame 26, God 3". were eight seconds left in the contest. The Irish had 
2) Notre Dame 35, Houston 34 -This Cotton blown a 14-point second-halflead, but Kelly Tripucka's Bowl, unlike the previous year's game, had nothing to 12-foot shot put them up by one. Danny Ainge took the do with the National Championship. The winner on this inbounds pass and managed to dribble around five frigid New Year's afternoon had little to gain in the defenders before putting in the game-winning layup. So polls, but it was still one of the most exciting bowl much for the class of 1982's hopes for a trip to the Final games ever. While most ofthe country turned the chan-Four! nel away from a 34-12 Houston route late in the fourth 3) Missouri 3, Notre Dame 0 -This was our first quarter to watch the Alabama-Penn State game, Joe game as students at Notre Dame, and it was hot! The Montana closed his college career with one ofhis great Irish opened their national championship defense by comeback performances. As the clock struck zero, Kris being shut-out for the first time in 18 years. Kris Haines Haines caught a pass in the corner of the end zone and slapped Missouri's Russ Calabrese after a gain to the belittled kicker Joe Unis scored the winning point, three-yard line. The personal foul penalty put the Irish which a penalty forced him to kick twice. at the 18. Dan Devine made the classic comment, "I 
3) Notre Dame 78, DePaul 76 (2 OT) -Remem-must criticize myself for not realizing field goals winTo those I love very deeply here olic Church. That day I became ber how the Chicago papers jumped on the DePaul games."
at Notre Dame: even more a part ofthe great Uni­bandwagon and cursed the small Catholic school with 4) Miami 37, Notre Dame 15-Remember going
versity of Notre Dame -and the city's hopes for a championship? Remember how home for Thanksgiving and telling all your relatives andI'm back for one more time this having so many of my friends the Blue Demons posted narrow victory after narrow friends that Notre Dame's football team had comeschool year with a very deeply there!· 
victory to maintain an undefeated record and No. 1 around with three straight wins and a narrow loss at
important message, but you I thank everyone associated ranking? Remember getting nauseated at Joey Meyer's Penn State? Remember telling them that the Irish team
know 1don't hardly know where with Notre Dame, from the diary? Remember Mark Aguirre sounding off? What they would see play Miami was not the same one thatto begin. cheerleaders to the security about the chants of "26.. and 1"? After fifty exciting played Michigan in the year's other TV game? ThisThis has been a very meaning­people, golf course people, minutes ofbasketball, Orlando Woolridge's free throws game, in clinching a losing season, not only ended thisful and blessfull year. God's taken everyone who works in the ACC, made the difference as the Irish added DePaul to their year on a bitter note, but also cast a dubious shadow on me down roads of unforgetable to the great people at WNDU, the list ofupset victims. the future. 
moments -from times teasing cooks and the many Fathers and 4) Notre Dame 57, Virginia 56 -This was the 5) So th Cal 20 N · 
u ern , otre Dame 3 -The tie at other great basketball upset in the last four years, as a Georgia Tech hurt Notre Dame's National Champion­secrataries at the ACC (you all Sisters, the alumni and many 
know who you are), to getting a others I've been aquainted with. partisan Irish crowd jammed the Rosemont Horizon in ship hopes in 1981. The loss at USC ended them. The
nice yelling at by Corrigan, Step­But most ofall, all you students, Chicago to witness the classic. Woolridge again was the offense was never on track, and a second half defensive hens, Coach "Fuzzy" Faust and for withoutyou and OurFather. 
the other football coaches I wouldn't know what I'd do. 
late-game hero as he picked up a rebound and canned it breakdown reduced the importance of the Sugar Bowl Coach "Digger" Phelps and hi~ There's a couple ofpeople that 
as time expired. The Irish defense held all-American from a championship game to a big game. 
Ralph Sampson to 10 points in quelling the Cavalier at­staff -to being with all the ath­a very deep, loving thank you is tack. 
One game received many votes for both top-andletes through sad and happy directed to -one who's been 5) Notre Dame 7, Alabama 0 -For the second bottom-five honors, the 1978 USC game. The Irish
Sunshine in my life for four years, for putting up with me. one who just started a new life 
times. I'd like to thank all ofthem time in five years, the Irish entered a 'Barna contest after trailed 24-6 in the fourth quarter, butJoe Montana went 
a disappointment at Georgia Tech. This was !iupposed to work. With a minute left the Irish were on top, 25-24, meet and grow very close to drinking and a fellow I love very But also I've been allowed to abut three months ago by not 
to be the game between two undefeated, highly ranked but a late Southern Cal drive, aided by a referee's ruling teams, but both had been sidetracked. Nonetheless, a 
that a fumble was an incomplete pass, gave the Trojans a me. God's allow~d certain ones thanks isn't enough for all he's many srudents who mean a lot to dearly as the other two -that 
Sugar Bowl bid and a shot at the National Championship 27-25 victory. At the game's conclusion, the fans in Los were at stake when Notre Dame headed south. The Angeles gave the Irish a standing ovation.
to be pretty special in my life. done. 
defenses prevailed for both teams, but Phil Carter's I can think of some other great Notre Dame sportsOne thing I want to say -you're God be with the grads as you 
all great and you've done small go into the world, and all the rest second-quarter touchdown gave Paul "Bear" Bryant his moments from the past four years: Chuck Aragon's four­fourth fruitless attempt at beating Notre Dame. minute mile; the hockey team's playoff wins againstthings which you don't know. I'd enjoy your summer! 
like you to know, I love you all! 
Michigan this year at home and two years ago at Ann Now a look at the worst five Notre Dame sporting Arbor; the women's basketball team reaching the final
I can't say everything which God bless and love You, events in the last four years. 16 two years ago in Division III, and then having a win­
has happened this year but one Keith Penrod 1) Gc:orgia 17, Notre Dame 10 -The score was ning record this year in Division I.
big event was in jQining the Cath-P.S. I'm always here! 
-
Three SMC teams go outon top 
By DAVE DZIEDZIC with a 21-11 record. 
Isom, a junior from Northville, Associate Sports Editor The same weekend, 11 of Saint 
Mich., also finished third in the Mary's 14 qualifiers finished in the 1,500-meter run. Recent victories by the softball, top six places at the Indiana Division track and tennis teams highlighted a II and III Championships at Ander­
"All ofthose who qualified are un­
successful athletic season at Saint son College. 
derclassmen," Dillon said. "The 
Mary's College. Saint Mary's runners set state 
prospects for the team are definitely
Coach Scott Beisel's softball team records in two events as the team good." 
won the Indiana Division III cham­finished fourth of13 teams in its first 
Ginger Oakman's tennis team cur­
pionship by defeating Anderson Col­year ofcompetition. 
rently is involved in the AlAW Divi­
lege, 4-1, on May 1 at the SMC "I'm very pleased with the girls' 
sion III Regional Championships at
softball field. The Belles were the performance," said Belles' Coach 
Principa College in Illinois. The
first seed in the two-day, double­Tim Dillon. "Our goal in February, 
team received an at-large bid by
elimination tournament. when training started, was to qualify 
virtue of it's second-place finish in
The victory over Anderson was as many of our runners as possible 
the Indiana State Tournament in the 
,.. Saint Mary's second win over that for the state tournament. Of 20 faitschool in the tournament. The people on our team, 14 qualified. 
Belles defeated DePauw in the first The 100-meter hurdles was the only 
Two individuals and all three· doubles teams advanced to the semi­round. event for which we didn't qualify." 
finals after yesterday's first round of
The seven team tournament in­The 3,200-meter relay team (Liz cluded Manchester, Huntington, Brady, Mary McGlinch, Annette 
competition. Mary Ann Heckman, a freshman from Saint Jose, Mo., won
Grace and Notre Dame. Isom and Cindy Short) shattered the 
her matches at No. 3 singles, while
Three Belles were named to the old state record by 28 seconds. The 
Ann Huber (sophomore, Wayzata,
all-State team. Senior Mary Beth time of 10:23.6 was 32 seconds 
Minn.) won her No. 4 singles
Hosinski (Mishawaka, Ind.), sopho­ahead ofthe second place time. 
matches.
more Mary Bayless (Evanston, Ill.) Short, a sophomore from Calgary, and junior Trish Noland (Richland, Alb., set the other state record. She The doubles teams of Debbie Wash.) were honored. ran the open 800-meters in 2:19.9. Laverie-Maureen Fitzgerald (No. 1), 
Earlier in the season, the softball Brady, a junior from Plantation, Heckmann-Huber (No. 2) and team won the Valparaiso Tourna­Fla., finished second in the 1,500-Renee Yung-Susan Roesler (No. 3) ment. The Belles were the only Divi­meter run. She also finished fourth in all advanced to today's semifinals. 
sion III team in the event. The the 3,000-meter run. "Liz was my The finals are scheduled for tomor­softball team finished the season workhorse," Dillon said. row. 

lhe--O~~r====================================== 
~~cjl~~~===========================F=rid=a=y=,M=a=y=1=4,=1=9=82===p=ag=e=l=5 

Jeb Cashin Campus

Simon 

Notre Dame Commenc~ment is Sunday but the ac· tivitles continue throughout the weekend. Here they are: 

TodayMayt4 6:30p.m.: Lawn Concert by the University Concert Band on the Memorial Library Mall. 8 p.m.: Spring Dance program in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Saturday May 15 
11 :30 a.m.: Phi Beta Kappa installation in the Memorial Library Auditorium. 
1:30 p.m.: Film on the Notre !)arne Woman Emerging 
in t the Center for Continuing Education Auditorium. 60 minutes. 

2 p.m.: University reception by the Officers of the tivities is: 
University in the Center for Continuing Education. Families are invited. · 
4 p.m.: Graduates assemble for the Academic Proces· sion which begins at 4:20 in the ACC. Graduates enter Gates 1 or 2. 
5 p.m.: Baccalaureate Mass in the South Dome of the ACC. 7 p.m.: Cocktail Party and Buffet Supper in the North Dome of the ACC. Advance tickets required. 9 p.m.: Concert by the University ofNotre Dame Glee Club In Stepan Center. 
Sunday May 16 9 a.m.: Brunch in the South Dining Hall (Non· graduates need advance tickets.) 10 a.m.: Graduate division: Business Administration Diploma ceremony in the l.ibrary Auditorium. 
1 p.m.: Distribution of Bachelor's and Master's Diplomas in the North Dome of the ACC. Gate 3. Graduates only. 1:1 5 p.m.: Academic Procession begins in the ACC. 
2 p.m.: Commencement and Conferring of Degrees In the South Dome of the ACC. Tickets required for parents and guests. 
4:30 p.m.: Law School Diploma Ceremony in Sacred Heart Church. 
The schedule for Saint Mary's Commencement ac· 
TodayMay14 4 p.m.: Baccalaureate Ma:;s in Angela Athletic Facility. 8 p.m.: Spring Conceqln O'Loughling Auditorium. 9 p.m. to 1 a.m.: Graduation Party in the Century Cen­
ter. 
Saturday May 15 

10:30·12:30 a.m.: Commencement Program outside In the LeMans Courtyard. Ifraining, the program will be in the Angela Athletic Facility. 
At tim_e ofprinting a · 
GOLDEN DOME 
limited number of guest rooms were available for this 
BRUNCH 
graduation weekend 
~....<·-.~~:·1 in the -Grand Ballroom 
For availability and May 16, Sunday-tO a.m. to 12 noon reser-Vations, please 
Celebrate this special day in a special way! Our elegant 
call 234-2000. Golden Dome brunch includes juice, a~rted fresh fruits and salads, cheeses, scrambled eggs with your choice of toppings. made-to-order omelettes, biscuits and gravy, a_,sorted pa.,tries, seafood and chicken crepes, roa.,t beef, and our famous desserts, plus much, much more. S 10.95 for adults: S6. 95 for children under 12. Seating is limited, so please make reservations by call­ing (219) 234-2000, ext. 174. 
~CiiTiott lfottt 
123 N. St. joseph St., South Bend (219) 234-2000 
In the Marriott Atrium Friday, M~y 14 & Saturday, May 15 Starting at 7:30p.m. 
Castellino honoredfor chemistry work 
Dr. Francis J. Castellino, the Uni­versity of Notre Dame's noted blood coagulation researcher and dean of the College of Sdence, has been named the Klciderer/Pezold Profes· sor of Biochemistry at the Univer­sity, it has been announced by 
University Provost O'Meara. The Kleiderer/Pezold Chair was endowed at the University in 1978, memorializing Dr. Ervin C. Kleiderer, former executive direc· tor of research, development and 
_control at Eli Lilly and Co. who died in 1976, and his wife, Dr. Margaret Pezolk Keiderer, who died a year later. "Castellino has made highly creative and original contributions to protein chemistry in general, and to fibrinolysis In particular," O'Meara said. "While he is already one of the best biochemists in the country, we expect even greater things from him in the future." Cas· telllno received a bachelor's degree in chemistry from the University of Iowa. After two years of postdoc· toral work at Duke University, he joined the Notre Dame faculty In 1970. He was promoted to associate professor in 1974, to fuJI professor in 1977 and to the deanship in 1979. 
S~orts 

Blue-Gold accomplishes littl 
By CHRIS NEEDLES with a short touchdown run in the selfa lot, too. Sports 
Editor fourth quarter. Bell, a junior from "He's definitely the No. I quarter­Columbus, Ohio, was tabbed as the back right now." Playing its best game of'Tve Got a Offensive Player of the Game after "We came out of spring practice 
Secret," the Notre Dame football gaining 7 4 yards on 13 carries. without any serious injuries," Faust team conclude!i its spring practice In contrast to last season's spring continued, "except for (Pete) Buc­season on May 1 with the 52nd an­finale, in which the first team rolled hanan (who suffered a knee injury nual Blue-Gold Game, with the Blue to an impressive 42-7 victory, this three weeks ago). We did an awful team topping the White, 17-0. year's Blue-Gold contest featured lot this spring. We did a lot more hit­
With Michigan scouts scattered too many dropped passes, missed ting, tested a lot more things and put throughout the crowd, the Irish blocking assignments and overall people under pressure more than coaching staff admittedly wanted to uninspired play. Meanwhile, a last year." keep things simple, even boring, so crowd announced at just over Faust also refused to put much as not to give away secrets for the 23,000 ( 15,000 less than last year's stock in his team's subpar perfor­
·september 18 opener. So, all the game) yawned and applied more mance. "The kids had a lot offun out Wolverine spies got out oftheir visit Coppertone. there today," he said. "That's all that was a good suntan. counts. They've had a good attitude 
"We played it sort of straight this spring, that's been our strong today," said Notre Dame Coach Ger­Spring Footbal/'82 point. I just hope it continues." ry Faust, "as I'm sure you were able IRISH ITEMS: As far as the other to tell. But there's no sense giving quarterbacks go, sophomore 
the opponent an advantage." Karcher completed only 6-of-15 for The Blue squad, made up ofmem­Well, at least the weather was 56 yards and two interceptions. 
bers of the first team, had little good. Meanwhile, senior Jim O'Hara troubk handling the scrubs on the "We're far from being where we ended up four-of-eight for 32 yards, White team, but had a great deal of want to be by opening day next but was the victim of poor pass difficulty executing its rather year," said Faust. "We made too protection .-. . Carter added 
limited playbook. many mistakes out there today. We yards on 19 carries to go with his 
Mike Johnston opened the need to develop more ofa team con­touchdown. Sophomore Dave scoring with a 38-yard field goal cept and work closer together." Machtolf paced the White rushing midway through the first quarter. But Faust was able to· find some attack with 32 yards in 10 carries ... The three-pointer was set up by the positive points at the end of the Joe Howard caught five passes for 63 only exciting play of the day, a 38-spring season. One thing that must yards for the Blues, while tight end yard interception return by senior make Faust happy is the emergence Tony Hunter snared three for 4 7 linebacker Mark Zavagnin, who was ofKiel as the No. 1 quarterback. The yards ... Kiel averaged 48 yards on named the Defensive Player of the Columbus, Ind., junior had a fine seven punts ... The Irish now take john Paxson andjeanine Blatt were named the winners ofThe Game. spring, topping it off with a 9-of-19 off on summer vacation, and will Observer's Edward "Moose" Krause Award as the Athletes of the 
The Blues upped their advantage performance for 108 yards in the return in mid-August to begin Year. Athletic Director Emeritus "Moose" Krause made the 
to 10-0, marching 43 yards in seven Blue-Gold, despite being victimized preparations for the 1982 season. presentations at the Blue-Goldgame. (Photo by Cheryl Erte/t) plays, with senior tailback Phil Car­by butterfingered receivers. ter plunging one yard for the touch­''I'm really pleased with Blair," down. A pass interference call and a Faust said. "He's had a really good 19-yard Blair Kiel-to-Tony Hunter spring and has improved a lot. Coach completion set up the score. (Ron) Hudson has had a lot to do 
Lacrosse team drops title contest 
Greg Bell completed the scoring with that, but Blair has helped him-
By MIKE SULLIVAN "We have to take more shots and the squad may hamper O'Leary's win more faceoffs than the other plans. The offense provided by Steve team in order to win," explained Linehan and Bill Bonde will be 
Sports Writer 
McMahon makes 
O'Leary, referring to the con­missed sorely. Linehan, an attack­had to take many chances against The Irish lacrosse team knew it 
siderable Dennison advantages in man from Lexington, Kentucky, set lacrosse power Dennison, but 
these areas. "Still, Dennison's supe· an Irish scoring record with 42 goals
it to tennis NCAA~ 
rior stickhandling and depth is what and 22 assists. Bonde, a midfielder
missed chances proved to be their beat us." from Barrington, Rhode Island,
downfall as Dennison wori 19-9 in By MICHAEL ORTMAN Leach. Both losses came in three The loss ended an otherwise suc­scored 40 goals and had 14 assists.
the Midwest Lacrosse Association Sports Writer sets. Both Fernandez and Leach also cessful season for the Irish lacrosse The important contributions ofat­
championship game. will represent this region in Athens team. In only their second year of tackmen Mark Farino and Mike
The game, played on Cartier Field Junior Mark McMahon will be the along with Steve Lovett of Wiscon­last Sunday, matched the college varsity competition, the Irish have Lynch, midfielder Bob Cozzie, and first Notre Dame tennis player since sin, Michigan's Mark Mees, Min-division champ, Dennison, against compiled a respectable 9-6 record, defensemen Dave Lewis, Pat Jank, 1976 to play in the prestigious nesota's Bruce Helgeson and the Irish who were University Divi­including a 7-3 MLA mark and a 5-1 and Rich Wicke! will also be missed. NCAA tennis championships. The McMahon. Fernandez defeated sion champions. Dennison was division record. There are, however, many under· San Diego, Cal., native accepted the Leach in the championships this favored heavily to win the title be­Coach Rich O'Leary is pleased classsmen who are ready to step into invitation this past Monday, and will spring's Big Ten Championships. _cause of its 13-2 record going into with his team's progress this year. At starring roles. Sophomore attack­travel to Athens, Ga, for his first McMahon's teammates have the game and its fifth-place ranking the beginning of the season, he man Steve Pearsall set an Irish round match Thursday morning. decided to meet in Athens to offer in Division Ill The Irish held a 9-5 predicted that the Irish would record for assists in a season with 29 McMahon, who compiled a su-support. The team then will travel to record, but had won four oftheir last become a lacrosse power in the Mid· and is expected to play a major role perb 27-2 record at number one Rochester, N.Y., for the Eastern Col­five games. west within four or five years. He in the attack. Sophomore Jerry singles this season, has filled the top legiate Tennis Championships to be It did not take long for Dennison presently feels that the team's im· Levesque and junior Dan Pace singles spot for three years. This year contested next weekend. to show why it was highly ranked. provement is "ahead ofschedule." should also help lead the offense. he helped the Irish to their fourth The second round of the NCAAs The visitors quickly went ahead 3-0 "We've shown at times," said Freshman justin Shay, who set an straight 20 win season (20-9). will be contested Thursday after-before the Irish could score. The O'Leary, "that,ifwe play with inten­Irish scoring mark for defensemen McMahon's record this season in-noon, and Round Three is slated for lead had stretched to 7-2 in the sity, we can play with anyone. and impressed many observers with eluded wins over the top player Friday morning. The quarterfinals second quarter before the Irish "We went into the year hoping to his aggressive play, should lead the from almost every Division I school begin Friday afternoon with the scored four of the next five goals to work on things like a settle offense, defense. Freshman goalies Rob in the Midwest. His only losses came semis scheduled for Saturday and finish the first half behind 8-6. but as we eliminated things Simpson and Pat Poletti did a good
we at the hands ofOhio_State star Ernie the finals Sunday. How long The first three minutes of the couldn't do, we were able to work job in the nets and should improve Fernandez, a 1980 NCAA semi-McMahon survives in the NCAAs second half proved pivotal as Den­even more next season.
more on our strong points like for­finalist and former U.S. Jr. Davis Cup will determine whether he can play nison quickly expanded its lead to 
cing unsettled situations." 
See LACROSSE, page 12

Player, and Michigan's Michael in the Eastern Collegiates. five with three power-play goals. 
The graduation of the seniors on 
The Fighting Irish. • .we'r.e coming back!! ! 
As coach Gerry Faust prepares his team for another grueling foot· ---------------------------­
The Observer 
ball season, now you can make it a point not to miss out on any 
\1akc .chc~ks payable tu I
P.o. nox Q
developments ofthis year's exciting Fighting Irish. For only n 5 you I 
and mail to· '\otr.: Dame, 1:\' !(,'i'ih I 
can have The Observer mailed to your home throughout the upcoming season. Published daily during the school week, The Ob­--Enclosed i:< S1<~ for su-bscription through Fall 1982 (grauc;.~.ting I seniors only ' I
server will make you feel like a part of the Notre Dame team. Our __ Enclosed is Sl5 for subs.::ription through Spring 1983 (graduating Ilarge and talented sports staff will give you a view of Faust's second seniors onlv). r
edition as no one else can. Then stay with The Observer through 
__Enclo:-.nl. i!-~I c: ·.n ~: ~•-cription through bll llJH~. I
the second semester, and keep tabs on Digger Phelps and the Irish basketball team. Phelps just concluded one of his most successful __Enclosed i!!' 'l2c; for sub".-ription throu~h Spring t·J~.~-I recruiting seasons ever, securing a promising future for the Irish hoopsters. Take advantage of the special full-year discount, and Name _________________________ I lreceive The Observer through the spring for just $25. Or, as a spe­
I
cial gift to you graduating seniors, pay only no for one semester or Address--------------------------­
I
only $15 for the entire year. That's a great savings for the most com­
CitY----------'----Statt ___Zip ___ I
plete and up-to-date coverage of Notre Dame sports and news. You 
I
simply can't afford to turn this offer down. So fill out your subscrip­
I
tion today and keep in touch with the great comeback year of the Gerry Faust 
Fi tin Irish onl in J:be Observer. L-----------------------------~ 







